
----------------------------------~----------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
• • • WorldSeries-~e 12 

VOL XVII, NO. 36 the independent ~tudent Ill"\\ ~paper ~er\'ing notre Jame and saint mary·~ WEDNE~DAY, OCTOBER 13, 1982 
Israeli and Syrian troops open fire inLebanon 
BEIRl 'T. Lebanon ( AP) -Israeli 
troops clashed with Syrian and 
Palestinian forces in eastern 
Lebanon's Bekaa Valley today and each side accused the other offiring first. 
The Tel Aviv command said Syrian forces and Palestinian guerrillas fired light arms and rocket-propelled grenades at Israeli forces near Yanta, six miles northeast of Rachaiya and four four miles from the Syrian border. 
The Israelis returned fire, but 
reported no casualties during the 
incident, the Tel Aviv command 
said. 
The Syrian command in Damascus 
said the Israelis opened up with 
tanks and artillery on Syrian forces in 
the Nita area of the Bekaa about 
II :20 a.m. (5:20a.m. EDT), and that the Syrians and Israelis traded fire for 30 minutes. 
It said the Israelis resumed firing about noon (6 a.m. EDT) and that the second exchange lasted until I :30 p.m. (7:30a.m. EDT). 
Israeli forces invaded Lebanon June 6 to rout the Palestine Libera­tion Organization. Thousands of guerrillas evacuated west Beirut in August, but thousands more remain in Lebanon's northern port of Tripoli and behind Syrian lines in Bekaa. 
The Syrians have been in Lebanon 
for six years, ostensibly to police the 
armistice that ended the 1975-76 
Moslem-Christian civil war. Israel 
demands the Syrians pull out from 
Lebanon in a phased withdrawal 
with the Israelis, and that the Pales­
tinan guerrillas in Tripoli and Bekaa 
get out before then. 
Early Monday, Lebanese govern­

ment troops entered the massacre­
scarred Sabra and Chatilla 
Palestinian refugee camps in west 
Beirut, seizing suspected outlaws 
Hauserto discuss his controversial book 
ByJOHN BURCHETI 
Newss_taff 

Author Thomas Hauser will discuss his views offilm as a vehicle of expose as it relates to his book Missing in a lecture tomorrow eve­ning in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
The lecture is part of a five-part political series sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission that examines politics vis-a­vis popular culture. The film version of Hauser's book is being presented in conjunction with the lecture by CILA tonight in the 


Engineering Auditorium. The controversial book, which earned Hauser a Pulitzer Prize nomination, is a study of allegations that the United States government ordered the assasination ofone of its citizens to 'cover-up' American in­volvemenr in the Chilean Coup of 1973. The film, which stars Jack Lemmon and Sissy Spacek, provoked a three-page statement from the U.S. State Department which ob­jected to the 'impression' left by the film that the U.S. had any foreknowledge of or com­plicity in the execution of young American Charles Horman and also to the impression that the U.S. played a large role in the Chilean Coup of 1973. 
ana illegal aliens and bulldozing 
shacks built without permission 
near the airport. 
At the same time. Palestine Libera­tion Organization sources said that the PLO and Jordan negotiated a joint strategy for establishing a Palestinian homeland after a meeting betweenJordan's King Hus­sien and PLO chief Yasser Arafat in Amman. 
The independent Kuwaiti 
newspaper Al-Qabas said Arafat and 
Hussein, meeting Sunday night, 
agreed to a confederation plan for 
two separate entities under one 
central government and two armies 
under one defense ministry. 
Arafat is touring Arab states where his guerrillas scattered following an Israeli-forced evacuation from west Beirut, which had been their stron­ghold after being driven from Jordan in I970. 
Syria denounced Arafat and said he did not have sole authority to speak for the Palestinian guerrilla 
clashed with Syrian and Palestinian forces in the Bekaa Valley. ( AP Photo)
movement. 

Collaboration? 


PositionofThiversity architects que;tioned 
By GREGORY SWIERCZ 
News Staff 
While construction of the Snite 
Museum of Art represents the only 
"collaboration" of University plan­
ners and the architecture depart­
ment, the two usually do not cross 
paths when a new building is 
planned, according to one ar­chitecture professor. 
Ambrose M. Richardson, profes­sor and designer of Snite, said many campus faculty members would par­ticipate in detailed designing of campus buildings, if given the 
Thomas Hauser 

Hauser, a 35 year old attorney turned author, compared the State Department's memo to "Nixon saying 'I've listened to the tapes and there is nothing incriminating on them.· ". He went on to say that the statement from the State Department "denies the allegation that U.S. government officials had foreknowledge ofor ordered Charles Hor­man's execution. but it does not say anything about a cover-up." 
chance. 
But Richardson said the Univer­sity does not readily want to include outside members in the decision­making processes. 
"The administration is afraid that the faculty and students would be concerned with building monu­ments instead of buildings that work," said Richardson. "The ad­ministration has to deal with economic and design problems ­the realities oflife," he said. 
Father Edmund P. Joyce, Univer­
sity executive vice president, said 
the architecture department is a 
teaching medium, and is not in a 
position. to help with campus 
projects. 
"Most ofour buildings are ofsuch magnitude that we need such a firm as Ellerbe," said Joyce. 
"I truly believe we have utilized the architecture department to some extent. They teach, and don't have the time for a major project," he said. 
Vice President for Business Affairs Thomas]. Mason agreed with Joyce, stating the architecture departmenr doesn't "have the resources" needed to work on major campus projects. The involvement of the department and Ellerbe is a working one, Mason said. 
But according to Richardson, members of his department "would be more than willing to contribute (their) experience." 
Richardson is not a newcomer to university building advisory com­mittees and architectural planning. While at the University of lllinois in Champagne-Urbana, he was chiefar­chitect ofthe U. ofI. art museum and was a member of their campus com­mittee on campus architecture. In addition, he also was in charge of designing and construction of the Indianapolis Museum ofArt. 
While Richardson realizes the constraints the administration has concerning campus planning, he wondered why the University does not allow any type of input from the 
See ARCHITECTS, page 5 

Acknowledgedarchitect 


NDofficialsdejend,EIIerbe, Inc, 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
Assistant News Editor 
When the University announced last spring that architects Ellerbe As­sociates, Inc., had designed the new Arts and Letters faculty office build­ing, some questioned the construc­tion of yet another Ellerbe building on campus. 
Ellerbe Associates, a subsidiary of Ellerbe. Inc., of Bloomington, Minn., is the acknowledged University ar­chitect, according to Notre Dame of­ficials. The company has designed most of the major buildings on campus since the 1950s. 
Many ask how could Notre Dame again choose Ellerbe, the firm responsible for such structures as Stanford-Keenan Hall and O'Shaughnessy Hall. . 
University officials are quick to 
respond that what others consider 
as a monotonous design actually 
reflects the concern Notre Dame has 
not only for continuity, but also for 
the needs of the user and the con­
straints ofa budget. 
"Maybe their buildings are not in 
the mod group or the latest, but 
these architects, in what they have 
done for us, build the kind of build­ings we are interested in," says Thomas Mason, Vice President for Business Affairs. 

Don Dedrick, Director of Physical Plant, says he is "uefinitely happy with the work ofEllerbe. There's not a lot left to chance. We just don't 
have any problems with them." 
Nevertheless, numerous ques· tions have been asked, especially by faculty members, about what they regard as the University's nebulous procedure when planning, financ­ing, and constructing a new build­ing, specifically the new office 
building. 
"All the decisions (to build) are made in the main building with very little input from particular groups," says Vaughn McKim, chairman ofthe Faculty Senate. "The decision about what kind of building to build and where to do it seems to be made by three or four people at the top ofthe heap." 
Both Mason and Dedrick contend that the process allows sufficient in­put. This process ofbringing a build­ing to completion involves much more than input, though. 
Mason explains that priorities for building projects are obtained out of long range planning documents, such as the COUP report and the soon-to-be-released PACE report. 
"The priorities then have to be put into a fundraising program, and then one has to match those with potential donors. The point being that even though we may establish a particular item as top priority, if we can't find a donor to match the need, we can't build it." 
Father Edmund Joyce, Exec1;1tive Vice President, also emphasizes the pragmatic attitude toward building that must be held: "We don't have huge amounts ofmoney to spend on these things. In every building project that I've been involved in we've never been able to splurge." 
Along with the search for a donor, the University also begins to form­ulate a "program" for the building, basically a definition of what the building will be and what will go in­to it. 
See ELLERBE, pase 3 

r 

NewsBrie!J 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
A white General Motors car built between 1969 and 1982 is suspected in last month's hit-and-run accident that seriously injured two Notre Dame students, South Bend police an­nounced yesterday. The determination was made from FBI laboratory analysis of evidence gathered during the investigation. The FBI noted that the vehicle is a passenger-type car, not a truck or van. South Bend Police Sgt. Don Pinckert said that although white is a common color car, residents should be aware that the car will have damage to either its front hood or fenders. Residents or students with information may call the police at 284-9202. -The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, university presi­dent, was awarded the 1982 Jefferson Medal for contributions to higher education in Washington Saturday. The awards ceremony marked the end ofthe National Higher Education Week. The awards committee cited Hesburgh's work as co-chairman ofthe Cambodian Crisis Committee two years ago and his continued achievements as Notre Dame president. -The Observer 
Shuttle No.26, has changed its morning schedule, and now departs at 9:55a.m. from Saint Mary's LeMans Hall and reach the Notre Dame Memorial Library at 10:03. It will leave the library two minutes later. The shuttle used to leave LeMans at 9:50 a.m. -The Observer 
A 28year-old Georgia woman who has been uncon­scious for more than two months has given birth to a 6-pound boy, hospital officials say. Sherry Crider, a Cave Spring housewife, was admitted to Floyd Medical Center on Aug. 5 with severe injuries ·suffered in an automobile accident near her home. On Sunday night, Mrs. Crider was in natunn labor for about 10 hours before giving birth at I0:40 p.m. to her third child, named Preston Kirk Crider, hospital spokesmen said. "We had to m:tke a decision whether to keep the baby ifsomething did happen to Sherry," said her husband, Randall Crider. "I decided to keep the baby. I think she'll do a lot better now that she's had the baby." Doctors told Crider his wife "assisted" during delivery. "They said she pushed," Crider said. "I reckon Mother Nature did that." Crider said he and his wife's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Dewel Dempsey of Cave Spring, stayed in a vacant hospital room during the 67 days until the baby was born. The infant was taken to Shallowford Hospital in Atlanta on Monday for testing. The neurologist treating Mrs. Crider, called the birth "unusual," saying that in 12 years of experience this was the first time he had seen such a birth occur. -AP 
International Harvester Co. is trying to con­vince its suppliers to make S50 million in concessions that company officials say are crucial to its $4.2 billion debtrestructuring plan. Har­vester, which has suffered los&es running into the billions ofdollars in recent years, is asking suppliers for price cuts, extended payment terms and inventory concessions. The concessions are important because the company's creditor banks have agreed to let Harvester convert debt to equity at the rate of $3 for every dollar in conces­sions granted by suppliers, up to a maximum of S50 million. Harves­ter officials say suppliers already have agreed to S I 0 million in concessions, adding that .the company is "optimistic"concessions can be negotiated. -AP 
Pamela Fielder ,who claimed she shot her gynecologist husband in self-defense after her life was twisted by his sado­masochistic urges, was sentenced yesterday to two years in prison for voluntary manslaughter. The jury deliberated for seven hours Monday and about an.hour yesterday before reaching the decision. At the request ofdefense attorneys, State District Judge Howard Fen­der polled the nine men and three women, and all said they agreed to the two-year sentence. The 37-year-old woman, convicted in the 1981 death of Dr. Darwin Fielder, showed no emotion as the sen­
tence was read. She faced up to 20 y~ars in prison or probation ofup to 10 years. Mrs. Fielder was charged with murder, but claimed she shot Fielder in self-defense, protecting herselffrom the torture ofhis violent and sexually bizarre lifestyle. After deliberating for four hours over two days, the jury convicted her of the lesser charge of voluntary manslaughter. -AP 
Mostly cloudy todayand continued cool. High in mid 50s. Cloudy tonight and tomorrow and cool. Low tonight in the low40s.Hi 
Wednesday, October 13, 1982 -page 2 
\ 

A time for change 
A revised parietals proposal will be voted on at the Thursday and Friday meeting ofthe Saint Mary's Board of Regents. The proposal includes extending the present hours to include the following: Friday, 5 p.m. to 2 am.; Saturday, 1 p.m. to 2 a.m.; Sunday, 1 to 10 p.m.; and Monday through Thursday, 5 to 10 p.m. 
The proposal is the result ofa survey conducted last year by the Board of Governance. 75 percent of the 

respondents felt that parietals hours should be ex­tended to include weekday and Sunday evening hours. proposal is not accepted, students will contir.ue the 
Modification ofthe present policy has the support of present practice of going to NO and off-campus to the Parents Council, Campus Ministry, Counseling, Stu-socialize. Social life at Saint Mary's is nearly non­dent Activities, and Residence Life. existent. The best-laid plans for social improvement All sides considered, the new proposal appears to be have proven nearly futile. The lack of a student center a most fair and rational step for the College to take. and the limitations of weekend parietals encourage the In I 977 the hours were extended from midnight to 2 mass exodus of Saint Mary's students. Students should 
a.m. This revision was also preceded by much effort and not feel forced to leave their own campus in search of concern, but in practice proves to work exceptionally entertainment. well. 90 percent of the students surveyed responded In addition, weekend-only visitation tends to em­that a modification of the present system would not af-• phasize only the social aspect of the. male-female feet their sense of privacy. The security precautions relationship. Jackowski said, "The proposed policy taken in the present system would continue under the would be ...healthy in terms of all the programming new plan and there is no indication that the addition of we do in the residence halls ...It would enhance the weekday hours would in any way effect the success of social and educational programs ...We do co-sponsor the system. programs with NO sections, 
A parietals policy survey but we always have to have of 12 colleges comparable them (the programs) over to Saint Mary's was con-there (NO)." Once again, ducted by 2 residence hall the limiting factor of the directors last month. Five of present parietals system is the seven four-year encouraging students to women's Catholic colleges leave campus; in this case, to had weekday visitation as attend programs sponsored did both Catholic co-ed by their own school. schools. The three other One benefit the new 
. church-related institutions proposal would provide is also had weekday hours. Sis-the opportunity to break up ter Karol Jackowski, dire<> the class-structured dorm tor of residence life, f.· arrangement at Saint Mary's. concludes "Compared to While the present system of other colleges in the same filling Regina with freshmen, situation as we are, (Saint McCandless with sopho­Mary's) is one of the most mores and so on is tradition-restrictive." In fact, only the al, there is little benefit in women's colleges without a this beyond isolating stu­nearby male or co-ed institution were more restrictive. dents according to class. Associating with upperclas-
The survey proved overwhelmingly that Saint Mary's smen and well as underclassmen has increased the students are in favor of the modification. 96 percent scope of my college experience. said they would be willing to participate in an ex-Dorms or sections could be broken up into special perimental extension ofparietals hours. interest groups such as social justice or non-smoking, 
We are constantly reminded that our four years at suggests Jackowski, in addition to dividing according to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are supposed to prepare differing parietals policies. Such an alternative lifestyle us for the "real world." College, in addition to the real would assure that the rights of those opposed to week­world, includes the acceptance of certain respon-day parietals were not infringed upon. "l wouldn't feel sibilities. Anyone who has taken on the responsibilities positive about (the proposal) if there wasn't that al­of college can certainly handle the responsibility that ternative," said Jackowski. comes with weekday parietals. Finally, the argument that modification ofthe present 
One student said that when the proposal wa~ parietals would detract from Saint Mary's reputation as presented to the Parents' Council, a few parents a women's college is not valid. 97 percent of students protested that the parietals policy is "the reason they surveyed disagreed that a change in the policy would sent their daughters to Saint Mary's." This is a ludicrous lessen Saint Mary's reputation as a women's college. As stand to take because a parietals policy alone is not a one administration put it, "I think ifour reputation as a good enough reason to attend an institution. The parie-women's college depends on whether there are men at tals policy, even the present one, must be utilized as a the college (during the week), then we're in big responsibility and not a shelter. trouble." A college truly dedicated to the goals of 
What critics ofthe proposal don't realize is that, if the women should have a firm beliefin the intelligence and reasoning that it has instilled in its students. 
The Observer Design Editor........................... Kay Holland Design Assistant............................ Alan Bell Typesel/ers ............................. Bruce: Oakley AI Novas News Editor .................................. Vic Sciulli Copy Editor........................ Cindy Coldiron ND Day Editor................... Cindy Coldiron SMC Day Editor..................... Greg Swiercz Features Layout .................... Greg Swiercz Sports Copy Editor............. Skip Desjardin Typist ....................................... Mary Torchia Photographer .................. Melinda Hopkins Guest Appearances ....... The St. Louis Car· dinals  
The Observer ;USPS 598 9201 15 published Monday through Fnday .lnd on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacatton penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Col· lege Subscnplions <nay be pure hased for $25 per year 1S15 per se•nester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame fndtana 46556 The Observer IS a onember of The Associated Press All reproductton nghts are reservel Second class postage patd at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556  

montgomery® 
w11i conduct interviews on this campus THURSDAY, NOV. 4 & FRIDAY, NOV. 5. Career pos1tions in vertical transportation 
MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT 
will be discussed with degree candidates in 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. 
For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your campus, contact your placement office. 

montgomery"' 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

Montgomery Elevator Company. Moftne. lllino1s 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co .. lim1ted. Toronto. Ontarto M983S5 Offices in pnnc1pal c1ties of North America 



_T_h__e_O_b_s_e_rv_e_r_____________________________________________________vv___ednesday,October13, 1982-page3 
.. . Ellerbe 



Section puti(S 

HPCseeks ~rt ofrectors 
continuedfrnm page 1 
Dedri<:k explains that during the 

meeting process "we sit down and 
do schematic drawtngs. At that point 
the l'niversity officers either ap­
prove or disapprove them." The ar­
chitecrs. in most recent cases 
Ellerbe, then return with four or five 
ideas, of which one is chosen, and 
with the continuing approval of the 
officers. the plans enter the design 
stage and then the final stage. 
The responsibility of the olticers 

is not only to make sure the project 
stays within budget, but Joyce adds 
the officers must be concerned 
about the appearance of the build­
ing. "We don't want one that will be 
a sore thumb." 
After designs are made final. Joyce says that all the buildings are put out for competitive bids from contrac­tOrs on the University's approved list. In all cases, the University ac­cepts the contract of the lowest bid­der. 
Still, the question of changing architects remains a controversial one in the minds ofsome. 
One professor says "there's nobody on campus I know who thinks Ellerbe is doing a terrific job for us." 
In addition, a group of a dozen senior members of the Arts and Let­ters college started a petition calling for a change of architects last year, but the matter died when few faculty would sign the request. 
Dedrick counters that "it is nor­mal for a University to have an offi­cial architect. I think the University of Virginia has used the same ar­chitectural firm for over I00 years." 
"You can change architects every project or every five years, but I don't know what you'll end up with in 20 years in terms of continuity," says Mason. 
And Joyce comments that in changing architects "you might get a good building, you might not. I've been sufficiently satisfied with Ellerbe over the past 30 years." 
For University officials, this con­tinuity not only is reflected in aet­hethic design, but in mechanical and electrical as well. 
"The engineering is sound, and Ellerbe has always had a good reputation of having a good struc­tural department. having a good mechanical department: the guts of a building," says Mason. 
"Ellerbe ha-; lent continuity to the construction program around here. I'm not saying that everyone agrees with their designs or their final product, but they have been the ar­chitects and as far as I know will con­tinue to be." 
Ellerbe Associates, Inc., is a subsidiary of Bloomington-based Ellerbe, Inc. ( I98I total a-;sets: S33.9 million). a familv of com-
panics providing services in plan­
ning, architecture, engineering, 
construction, real estate develop­
ment, and construction manage­
ment. 
The corporation's annual report glows with pictures of modern designs, such as a six-building head­quarters for InterNorth Corp.. the Flint, Michigan Hyatt Regency Hotel, and numerous civic centers across the nation. Yet, Notre Dame officials feel that modern designs are not right for this campus. 
"I think that in their (Ellerbe's) 

philosophy, in what they've done 
here. and the way this campus is laid 
out, we're not ready for the ultra­
modern," says Mason. 
Joyce adds, "We are no: building 

monuments, but practical build­
ings." 
Joyce says he resents "armchair 

architect types" to whom money is 
no consideration in the design of a 
project. "We had a limited budget 
on the Faculty Office Building. Ifwe 
had the money, we could make it a 
spectacular building. It all comes 
down to money." 
Both Joyce and Mason believe that the "Notre Dame brick" used on campus adds a feeling ofharmony to the campus, though Mason adds that the use of the brick does not leave "much room for imagination." 
The recent problems with water seepage in Fitzpatrick Hall have not made the University consider switching architectural firms. Dedrick says the placing of blame is not worth determining, and he reminds critics that Fitzpatrick is a "very complex building. You're never going to build the perfect building." 
"It's not uncommon in a new building of that size and complexity to have some problems, though I think we've had more problems than usual in that one." adds Mason. 
Bob Nagle, the field representa­tive for Ellerbe on campus, knows that his firm gets much "bad ink," but he believes Ellerbe is a "professional." Therefore he does not think that it is proper for Ellerbe to respond to the criticism. 
"We don't want arguments," he says, "and I would have to work 8000 hours a week to rebut everv­thing." He adds that he does not s~e his firm as responsible for the problems with Fitzpatrick. 
Concerning the look of the new Stepan Chamistry Hall, Joyce says he does not "find any problems with it. It had to be attached to Nieuwland, and with all the space, I don't know what else you would have come up with." 
Mason suggests that "once we get the old Fieldhouse down it will make a major difference in how one looks at that building...you'll create a mall in th~r~ ... 
Commenting on the general criticism of buildings on campus. Dedrick cautions, "Without knowing all the discussions, there's no way you can critique a building, because you don't know the dif­ferent factors, elements, and vagueries that went into the development of the project." 
Joyce says he realizes that some of 
the buildings here are "very spartan. 
It would be lovely if we could 
provide a suite like at Oxford, but 
that's a different world." Notre 
Dame provides "all that's necessary 
for the job at hand," he notes. 
Joyce sees a new classroom build­
ing as the next high-priority project. 
He envisions a flexible building with 
classroom space and a sophisticated 
audio/visual learning center. 
Mason also sees a new classroom building as a current need, and he acknowledges that space has been saved between O'Shaughnessy Hall and the Faculty Office Building for such a project. 
t New dorms are also a priority item for Mason, who wonders whether the University should spend a "considerable amount of money to renovate Holy Cross Hall, or spend a little more money and construct some Pasquerilla-type residences" between the Library and the Pasquerillas. He says that 
Holy Cross Hall would never be torn 
down, but that the residents would 
eventually have to me moved if new 
dorms were constructed, since the 
Holy Cross order actually owns the 
hall. 
ByDAVIDF. TRACY 
News Staff 
Hall Presidents Council chairman Mike McAuliffe asked his fellow council members at last evening's Hall Presidents Council Meeting to petition their rectors to submit anal­ternative proposal for a section party proposal if they oppose the one he proposed. 
Yonchak's proposal has met much criticism from both council mem­bers and hall rectors. 
Breen Phillips was awarded the Sowder Award for Hall Spirit. The events the winning hall sponsored 


Cincinnati. Ohio 45246 
included a movie, a happy hour, and a "screw your roommate". 
Mary Ann Myers, one of the managers of the Irish Gardens, told the council that the campus flower shop has been paid for and the stu­dents now own it. Since the shops only expenses are their inventory and salaries of their employees and managers, prices will be lower at the shop due to lower overhead of operations. 
Andy Schaffer, chairman of last year's Mardi Gras festivities, told the council that a new chairperson would be needed for this year's Mardi Gras. Anyone interested 
Room 1 

should contact Andy at 283-1073. student body president, Uoyd Burke, or the student activities office. 
Other items discussed at the meeting were the installation ofwas­hers and dryers in north dining hall, the feasibility of the University joining BACAS, a national alcohol concern group which promotes responsible drinking, and the pen­ding budgets of the residence halls. Changes in the men's laundry service schedules were also dis­cussed along with the possibility of mens halls making use ofthe less fre­quently used women's party rooms. 



Arts a1'U:lLetters Career 
Dayu:ill be Thursday 
By MARC RAMIREZ Placement tlureau. ··I hese people News Staff are here not to represent their firms. but rather their careers." 
Arts and Letters students in­As well a~ offering students the terested in becoming more familiar opportunity to speak with people with the different careers available who have first-hand knowledge to them after graduation can take ad­about a variety of vocations, career 
vantage of the Arts and Letters literature will also be available. Career Day which will be held this Reynolds added that while Arts Thursday from 12:00 to 4:00 PM in and Letters majors nationwide have the ballroom of LaFortune Student to work harder than other majors to Center. land jobs, those at Notre Dame are looked well upon by companies. Al­
The event is designed to provide 

though many "firms made cutbacks
for students information about oc­
on their lists ofcolleges and univer­
cupational areas ranging from public 
sities to visit, Notre Dame remains
relations and advertising to hotel 
and restaurant management. 
Representatives from 35 different 
fields will be represented, including 
seniors. This year three new occupa­
personnel from Xerox and General 
tional areas-financial services,
Motors. 
performing arts. and small business 
Name _____________________________________ Age ________ Address ----------------------­
"This is not a recruiting session," ownership-have been added to the emphao;ized Paul Reynolds of the curriculum. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 13, 1982 -page 4 


The Hall President's Council met last night to discuss section party policy, among other press­
138thanniversary 

SaintMary's celebrates Founder's Day 
ByALEXANDRA BARRETO 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's College will celebrate her 138th anniversary today with the celebration of Foun­ders' Day. Founders' Day has trad­tionally been celebrated on October 1 t 3, the feast day of Father Edward Sorin, one ofthe founders ofthe col­lege. 
in 1850, Sorin and Sister Angele Gillespie opened a school for or­phans and children in Bertrand, Michigan called St. Mary's Academy. The academy evolved and was soon teaching young women the arts, philosophy, religion and foreign lan­guage. In 1863, Sorin and Gillespie, the academy's directress, chose to move the academy to a new loca­tion, across from the University of Notre Dame. In 1855, St. Mary's Academy became Saint Mary's Col­lege, where it was chartered by the state of Indiana. The college 
Inc.'s Records Division, the largestone sw'!etheo.'t rose & employer in this western Indiana &baby's breath &free city, announced Thursday ·it will 
close its manufacturing divisionONLY Jl Sign up in dining hall here by the end of the year. idling 1,2'50 workers.
during Wed. dinner or dial m-U-rn -5 
The announcement came after months of rumors that CBS would 
THOMAS J At~D ALBERfA V 

\ V /HITE CENTER WFORLAWAND GOVERNMENT 
WednesdayNightSpecial 

Molson Gold 



Night $100 

9pm-3om Wednesday, October 13, 1982 


~Go Irish Beat Wildcats;~ 
Libra Auditorium 1 :15 .m .
.....•.......•••; ....•.................•.......•.•.....•............ 

There will be a "Uniform Review"

awarded its first Bachelor ofArts de­today in which students will wear
gree in 1899. uniforms worn by students in the As mot·e women came to Saint past. There will be a "Walk Thru Mary's, more buildings were Time" in the LeMans Hall lobby until needed. The first women's dor­5:00 this afternoon. The pictoral dis­mitory, Bertrand Hall, was built in play will include old photographs, 1862. In 190,3 Holy C T ross Hall was yearbooks and issues of The Static opened and LeMans Hall followed in and The Crux, old newspapers ofthe 1925. In the 1960's Marion Mcand­college. less Hall and Madeleva Hall were There will be a Candlelight Din­
built and Regina Hall became a dor­ner in the Saint Mary's dining hall. At
mitory. In previous years, Regina 6:30 there will be a slide show in the
Hall had housed the Sisters of the Saint Mary's Little Theatre entitled
Holy Cross. "A Celebration ofWomen". A recep­A committee of five women has tion will follow. 
been planning the colleges 138th Founders' Day s is not just a
anniversary since mid-September. celebration of the founding of Saint
Today is the culmination of four Mary's. "It is a celebration of Saint
days of celebration. Liturgical Mary's College" said Kathy Rownd,
celebrations took place Sunday. On one of the members of the celebra­
Monday, Founders' Day buttons tion committee. "We hope that
were sold and the film The Bells of everyone takes part in Founders'
Saint Mary's was shown. On Tues­Day," said Rownd. "It is our college
day, the movie was shown again and and we are making Saint Mary's what
each dorm celebrated Founders' Day by having a birthday partv. 
it is today." 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. (AP) -CBS 


Faculty Office Building bringscom.p1aints 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
Assistant News Editor 
Ground has been broken for the new Faculty Office Building, but throughout the college, professors have been privately and publically grumbling about not only the design of the structure, but the lack of an opportunity for input into the design process as well. 
Vaughn McKim, chairman of the Faculty Senate, is dismayed that the Faculty Senate was not consult<,:d at all concerning the design ofthe new building. 
"I have yet to see any blueprint8 or designs," he says. Yet Rober•. Burns, Acting Dean of the college, says Arts and Letters faculty were given the opportunity to make sug· gestions regarding their new office building. during the formulation of the "program" last year. 
Burns, Acting Dean ofthe College 
of Arts and Letters, appointed three 
members of the college -Fred 
Crosson, Peri Arnold, and Thomas 
Werge -to be members of an ad 
hoc committee studying recom­
mendations for the new building. 
Burns sent a letter to the Arts and 
Letters faculty announcing the ap­
pointments and asking for sugges­
tions; however, he admits "we did 
not get a lot of input...maybe 20 Jet: 
ters." 

McKim complains that faculty were not given enough background information on the project to make an intelligent suggestion. "How do you input to a process when you don't know what the ground rules are?" he asks. 
Burns says he functioned as the "conduit" from the ad hoc commit· tee to the meetings with Ellerbe Ar­chitects and the officers of the University. He says it "wasn't ap­propriate for the committee to I:Je present at these meetings." 

Burns claims there "was never any real controversy about anything. We did the best job that we could given all the other things we do around here." He is confident that the faculty will be happy with the design of the building "in so far as you can get 2HO peopte pleased about any­thing." 
There were controversies in the 
sh<n uvwn the local manufacturing portion of the plant. 
Robert Altshuler, vice president of CBS records, said the record divi­sion will consolidate audiodisc and cassette production operations at Carrollton, Ga., and Pitman, N.J. 
The decision to shut the Terre 
Haute plant was made by a private 
early design stages, however. The 
offices were (and still are) designed 

to provide 120 square feet of space 
per faculty member. 

The Academic and Faculty Affairs 
committee of the Board of Trustees 
expressed concern last year that the 

offices were significantly smaller 
than those built recently. The com­
mittee was told that the issue had al· 

ready been decided, according to a 
member. 

In addition, a letter was sent to 
Burns in which all the department 
chairmen in the college expressed 
their concern over the small offi.:e 
size. 
In response, Ellerbe Architects constructed a mock office in the old Credit Union Building, and Burns says "there was a general.satisfaction with the mock up." 
Each oftice was designed to have a window in order to make up for the present offices' basement location, and Thomas Mason, Vice ·President for Business Affairs, says this liptited the design possibilities. 
"When you tell the~ each office has got to have a window, you put restraints and constraints on them that take away a mimber of the op­tions you might have had to do something different." 

Yet McKim's complaims go 
deeper than just office size. He 
believes "the worst thing about the 
office building is that essentially 
we're building anothtll" structure 
with long corrodors and offices all 
the way down." 

"You won't create a physical en­
vironment which will encourage 
more informal interaction betv:een 
faculty members and students." 
"Academic life is so separated from student living environment," he says, adding he wishes the Un'i· versity would "create spaces where interaction can occur." 
Burns points to the establishment of an Oxford/Cambridge style com­mon room, however, as one of the most important features of the new building, the construction of which he labeled "the greatest event in the history ofour college." · . 
Plans for the building are available in Burn's office. and he says the col­lege "is due to get a display." 
research firm with an eye to in­
creased efficiency and lower costs, 
Altshuler said. 
Columbia House, CBS' record 
club, which employs about 1,000 
workers in Terre Haute, will con­
tinue to operate at its current levels. 
Altshuler said. 
Columbia House is the largest 
direct marketer of pre-recorded 
music in the world. 
Altshuler said CBS worked with an 
independent research organization 
to "analyze objectively what our 
manufacturing activities are ... 
"If we were going to increase ef­
ficiency, which includes 
manufacturing with the best set of 
cost factors, it would make sense to 
consolidate with plants in Carrol­
lton and Pitman," he said. "It was a 
very strong recommendation of the 
research firm. Efficiency was a fac­
tor, cost was a factor." 
He said the compound manufacturing division, which makes vinyl for CBS records, will 
stay in Terre Haute. 
Employment had dropped from over 5,000 at the record plant three years ago to I ,2 SO. 
CBS has developed a program to help employees laid off from the plam, Altshuler said on a trip to Terre Haute yesterday, including provisions for extended medical benefits and joh counseling. 

Wednesday, October 13, 1982 -page 6




Editorials 
What is and what seems to be 
------~----­
If Father Hesburgh were to make such an announcement, perhaps this would be the ap­propriate time for our president to declare the "beginning of the school year officially closed." We find ourselves now in the third 
Robert Lloyd Snyder 
Mid-week 

month ofclasses, the football team is 4-0, and Corby's has been raided. Yet, l was not entire­ly sure that the school year had passed into its middle stages until I discovered that the Freshman Register, a.k.a. "the Dog Book,'' had finally been issued. 
I remember the enthusiasm with which I studied the book when I was a freshman. It did not take long for me to realize that whether for better or worse, my fellow classmates did not truly look like the picturel> that they sub­mitted for publication in that journal. 
Today, my "Dog Book" sits on a shelf in my 
bedroom at my home, and it will probably 
remain unopened until the time when my 
children will wish to know "what it was like in the good old days." I anticipate and actually hope that my children will laugh at the souvenirs of my youth as heartily as I have laughed at my parents' annuals and keepsakes, because in the laughter ofyouth at the folly of adults, there is often an unconscious recogni­tion that the realities and pasts of others are but the object ofderision for others. 
Here at Notre Dame. though, I believe that we too often accept the "status quo," sustain time-worn stereotypes, and accept simplified notions as "truth." We could learn something from our children. 
The problems with the social atmosphere at Notre Dame and especially its male/female relationships can sometimes be traced back to this notion -many ofour social difficulties at Notre Dame are attributable to the fact that we believe the ancient stereotypes concern­ing men and women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that have been religiously passed from class to class through the years. We tend to perpetuate the ignorant stereotypesas a com­munity that SMC women are generally pret­tier and less intelligent than their NO conterparts, and :\otre Uame maies frequent­

·ly dismiss the majority ofSaint Mary's women as "husband hunters and airheads." Notre Dame women are conceived as being general­ly "super-intelligent but overweight," and the males at this campus are perceived to be an overly sexually frustrated group who care on­ly for sports, alcohol and the chance to take advantage oftipsy NO and SMC women. 
It is a standing insult to the principles ofthis University and the intelligence of each in­dividual in the ND/SMt student body when we further these utterly mindless slanders. It only serves to divide the men and women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's into three separate and highly defensive cliques which inhibits any resemblance of male/female 
relationships here to the outside world. (See DuLac -"parietals.") 
There are those in the ND/SMC student 
body who do fall neatly into these 
stereotypes; SMC girls who mindlessly seek 
out the more prestigious or popular males on 
campus, or NO girls who intimidate Notre 
Dame males with their intelligence in the 
classroom but lack the physical attractiveness which the majority of NO males prefer, or the men here who actively prey upon drunk girls and who are interested in little but the sports section of the ChicaKO Tribune. 
Moreover, while I would concede that sexual activity at Notre Dame does ill-reflect reality in the "outside world," I attri"'ute this fact primarily to the very nature of Notre Dame and the moral make-up of the students which it generally attracts, and not to the opinion that the stereotypes which are stupid­ly advanced stand as general behavioral stan­dards by which the members of the ND community can be categorized. 
So, having passed through the initial period of another school year, perhaps we should all re-evaluate our general perceptions of the Notre Dame community, and the categories which we force people into in order to simplify the world around us. Or better, pull out your old "Dog Books" and examine the pictures of people you have come to know; you will also quickly realize that many mat· ters, often oversimplified, are not what they superficially seem to be. 


Students Against Drunk Drivers 
One quarter ofa million Americans over the past decade have been killed by it. Nearly 26,000 Americans are killed yearly; seventy die daily and one every twenty-three minutes succumbs to it. Another 650,000 in the United 

Thomas A. Selvaggi 
Guest Columnist 

States are left maimed and crippled by this blight which has reached epidemic propor­tions in this country. The culprit' Drunk driving. 
Close to seventy percent of all Americans have suffered the tormenting effects of this rampant disease. Either you or I will be in­volved in an alcohol-related auto crash in our lifetime. Every weekend night that we drive, we are playing a "dodge from death" due to the one drunk driver out of every ten drivers on the road. Our own peer group (ages 16­24 ), which represents only 22 percent of the licensed population causes 44 percent of the fatal alcohol-related nighttime crashes. 
With the markedly high death toll and in­jury rate coupled with the societal loss ofover S25 billion yearly, drunk driving still remains the most prevalent form of homicide in our country. We are a society rightly concerned 
Hut~ many of these bills still lack enforce­tlafltt.iPql'y one of every 2,000 drunk drivers :::.'aRe'sted, and more than likely given a "slap ~wrist" and a suspended sentence. Such 
,:iS'the case ofa southern Indiana county sheriff actually convicted of killing two children while driving under the influence of alcohol and given a six month community work sen­
~ tence. These types ofsentences along with al­cohol rehabilitation programs and light fines are mere inconveniences the drunk driver puts up with biding his time until his license is reinstated. Hea\)' fines. jail sentences and revocation of licenses could very well have a sobering effect on repeat offenders. Many repeat offenders have drunk driving records of unconscionable length. Two years ago, after her daughter was killed by a repeat offender, Candy Lig'htner former the currently nationally recognized Mothers Against Drunk Drivers ( MADD ). South Bend has a local MADD chapter headed by Univer­sity of Notre Dame professor William McGlinn. Since MADD exists, it would naturally fol­low that at auniversity of considerable intel­lectual stature and with a community of people most susceptible to this phenomenon an organization of students against drunk drivers should be formed. On Sunday, Oc­tober .3, four students founded the UNO Stu-

about the effects of toxic shock syndrome, herpes and caffeine, yet as Washington Post columnist George Will states, " ...the public that reacts swiftly to such dangers is not com­parably aroused by the fact that a life is lost every 21 minutes in an alcohol-related crash, and one out ofevery two Americans will even­tually be involved in an alcohol-related crash ...People afraid offlying sigh with relief when they get off a plane and onto a normal hi~hway where, on a normal weekend night one in ten drivers is, by the law's definition, drunk." No matter how many times we hear these statistics, the sensitive reasonable per­son cannot help but to be shocked. It both frustrates and scares me that the number one cause ofdeath for Americans under the age of .35 is motor vehicle incidents. According to Dr. Geraldo Gonzolez, the president of BAC­CHUS, sixty percent of these deaths is due to drunk drivers. 
The killing of our young people is still theoretically tolerated in many states with lax drunk driving laws. But public outcry has finally forced some states to adopt much stric­ter measures and has prompted the U.S. Congress to push through the Howard-Barnes bill which provides a positive monetary in­centive to those states which adopt laws on drunk driving in accordance with its strict set ofguidelines. 


Editorial Board 
Tbe Obrewer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neces~arily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news i~ report· ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1torial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the \'iews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and the free expression of varying opinwns on campu), through letters, ii en,oun.ged. 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5:\0.\ 

Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor......................... Kelli Flint SMC Executive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor................................... Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
dents Against Drunk Drivers. Since then, with IUSB president Melanie Como, we have formed the following directive for our or­ganization: "The purpose of the UND-IUSB­SADD is to investigate the most accepted form of homicide in the United States today ... drunk driving. In accordance with this inves­tigation, we shall seekfirstly to educate our­selves concerning the laws dealing with drunk drivers 4nd their enforcement or lack thereof. Once a sufficient command of the problem has been attained, we shall pursue without end the establishment ofa national awareness of this heinous slaughter. Ultimately we shall achieve the perpetuation of an attitude whereby this senseless homicide shall no lon­
ger be condoned." 
One quarter ofa million people have died in the past decade at the hands ofdrunk drivers. 

( SADD 's next meeting is Sunday, October, 17 at2 p.m. in Keenan's Hofman Lounge. Allare welcome to bring their suggestions and con­tributions. Statistics are from the National Highwa;• Traffic Safety Administration and the National Safety Council.) 

Department Managers 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller.............................................Eric Schulz Advertising Manager....................... Chris Owen Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 

t 
h 
Wednesday, October 13, 1982-page 5 


The Observer 
~copycat'? 
HCL found in Visine eye drops 

GRAND JUNCTION, COLO. (AP) -The search for a "copycat" who put hydrochloric acid in bottles of Visine A.C. eye drops concentrated here Tuesday after officials ruled out contamination at the tactory. 
A hospital patient whose eye was burned by contaminated drops on Monday was reported in good con­dition. 
Thousands of impounded bottles of eye drops from stores in Mesa County were inspected as police sought the "nut" who they think reacted to the publicity about the Chicago Tylenol murders. 
The federal Food and Drug Ad­ministration inspected Visine samples at the Brooklyn, N.Y., plant where the contaminated bottles were produced, and "we found no adulteration, contamination or mistakes in production," FDA com­missioner Arthur Hull Hayes Jr. said. 
"There is no indication this is an­thing but a local problem," Hayes told reporters in Washmgton. 
continuedfrom page 1 
architecture department. 
"Dean Porter (director of Snite) and I worked closely together," Ric­hardson said. "What you need is communication to do a good build­ing." 
Richardson designed the plans of what is now the Snite Museum of Art. The plans consisted of general specifications of the building connecting the O'Sha~ghnessy Gallery and the Mestrovich Studio. While Richardson began sketching rough drawings as early as 1972, he suggested and eventually convinced the University building committee to incorporate the two buildings. 
According to Richardson, the museum plans intensified when the Snite Family decided to become a major donor to the project. 
While the Ellerbe Assoctates, Inc. took Richardson's designs and planned the construction, Snite Curator Stephen Spiro said there are a number of flaws in the structure that the museum has been forced to correct, many times at the expense of funds earmarked for lectures, ex­hibits and other projects. 
Lighting problems and the place­ment of thermostats and electrical fixtures have cost Snite money as well as space available for exhibit items. 
Spiro said when the museum opened in October of 1980, track lighting in the photography and drawing gallery had to be installed when it was discovered that the existing inset lights, patterned after ones in the Art Institute of Chicago, were "not at all adequate" in il­luminating an 18th and 19th century drawing collection from Paris, France. 
Also, The Observer has learned the courtyard ofSnite had been planned to be used for displaying heavy sculpture, but Spiro said the way the Annenberg Auditorium is situated directly underneath the space, any sculpture of considerable weight had to be placed outside the court­yard. 
Richardson stated he had no prior knowledge the courtyard was going to be the site of heavy sculpture. 
"The beam structure is long, (in the auditorium) to accomodate the lack of support beams in the 
In New York, State Health Com­missioner Dr. David A.-..::elrod recom­mended that no one use that type of 
eyedrop  until  it  could  be  
determined they were s afe.  
Pfizer  Inc.,  which  makes  the  

medication for reliefofminor eye ir­ritation, had no plans to recall the drops, spokesman Tony Biesada said by telephone yesterday from the company's New York offices. 
Larry Michael Tingley, 39, a Veterans Administration Hospital patient being treated for depression was reported "just fine" yest-:rday after suffering eye damage Monday when he used two drops of Visine 
A.C. in his right eye. 
His bottle was contaminated with hydrochloric acid, as was a second bottle of Visine A.C. found Monday at the same Target store where the first bottle had been purchased, offi­cials said. 
Authorities in the western Colorado county banned the sale of all liquid eve product~. 
••• Architects 
auditorium," he said. "I had no idea 
whatsoever  that  the  courtyard  
would be used for  that."  
According  to  Spiro,  the  lobby  

outside the Annenberg Auditoruim is dark, and plans to use the area for exhibits had to be discarded. 
"The lobby (outside the Annen­berg Auditorium) has not been used because ofthe lighting," he said. 
Plans for lighted cases are being planned, with the Snite Museum absorbing the costs. 
Snite receives funds from the Uni­versity, and the rest of the working budget comes from private dona­tions and the Friends of the Snite Museum. While Spiro said the museum pays for the exhibits, lectures and presentations, the funds are limited, and priorities usually go to the exhibits, many times at the expense of building im­provements. 
"We go to the University, and they tell us 'Do you know the shape ofthe dorms the students are living in on campus?' The University helps, but when the choice is between spend­ing funds on an exhibit or on the building, we take the higher priority,"Spiro said. 
Richardson, pleased with the way Ellerbe planned Snite, said all build­ings have flaws, and the museum's problems seem to be characteristic ofall buildings. 
The seals on the two bottles had been broken and they contained a yellow, pungent liquid. Uncon­taminated Visine is clear and odor­less. 
Dr. Kenneth Lampert, director of the Mesa County Health Depart­ment, said he believed the bottle of Visine used by Tingley had been "emptied out and completely replaced with hydrochloric acid." 
"There was a pretty crude attempt to reseal" the second bottle, Lam­pert said. "It had been cut vertically and then resealed with Scotch tape. It should be obvious, along with the yellow colorand the odor, that these bottles are not right." 
No other contaminated bottles had been found, Lampert said. "And it's my hunch -a hunch -that we won't find any more," he added. 
Grand Junction Police Chief Gary Leonard said the crudely resealed bottle of acid-laced Visine A.C. in­dictes it was the work ofa "copycat 
who  did  this  as  a  result  of the  
publicity from Chicago."  
Last  week,  a  woman  in  Rialto,  

Calif., complained of being burned by Visine A.C., but tests showed the acid level was normal. 
Tingley is not a suspect in the con­tamination, Leonard said. 


Secondmy 




Polish shipyard workers protest lxm 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -An es­timated 10,000 workers struck shipyards in Gdansk and Gdynia for a second day yesterday, and militants called for a general strike in the region to protest the ban on Solidarity, witnesses said. 
They said the workers flashed V­for-victory victory signs, chanted "Solidarity Will Win!" and painted the words "Solidarity Shipyard" in blue over the V.I. Lenin shipyard sign in Gdansk. 
They also left portraits of union chief Lech Walesa and Polish-born Pope John Paul II hanging on the gates of the plant named after the founder ofthe Soviet state. 
Other workers leaving the Gdansk yard said an "underground commit­tee" had appealed for a general strike throughout the Gdansk region. The report could not be in­dependently cont1rmed. 
The latest strike lasted from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m., and unlike Monday night when running battles between protesters and security forces erupted, no incidents were 


ATTENTION: 
There will be ageneral meeting for ALL Observer Staff _TONIGHT 6:30p.m. This meeting will be held in the comfortable Library Auditorium. 

reported. 
Riot police surrounding the shipyard in Gdansk with water can­non left before the shift change at 2 p.m., and departing workers were cheered by about 2,000 onlookers who chanted "Long Li~e Walesa!" and "Bravo Workers!" 
Walesa has been interned since martial law was declared and Solidarity suspended Dec. 13. The union was outlawed Friday by Parlia­ment. 
Government press spokesman Jerzy Urban told foreign reporters in Warsaw that eight shipyards and fac­tories in the tri-city area of Gdansk, Gdynia and Sopot were struck Mon­day, and that police had fought pitched battles with youths and on­lookers late into the night. 
Workers in Gdansk festooned the shipyard gates yesterday with ban­ners reading "Fighting Solidarity. Strike in Defense of Union Rights." The scene was reminiscent of August 1980 protests that launched the independent union on the Baltic coast. 
Western journalists reporting from Gdansk drove to nearby cities to evade a communications black­out in its second day. Szczecin, the northwestern Baltic port, also was cut off, but Western diplomatic sources reported the city calm. 
There were few details on the strike in Gdynia, but witnesses said several thousand workers halted work. 

******************************** 
ATTE!f!IO!f !fDISMC STUDI!f!S: 
You can now buy Observer classifieds at both the :ND and SMC Observer offices. 
:ND office-third Door, LaFortune, 10 am-3 pm SMC office-Regina South basement, noon -3 pm. 
FOR NEXT-DAY SERVICE 
********************************** 
~ 

DON'T MISS • •


mlSSIDg_ 
The film: Oct.l1 &13 7:00,9:15, &11:30 The Author: THOMAS HAUSER Thursday. October 14 
8:00 pm liBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Sponsored by CILA and RD Student Union 







The eye of the beholdet 

E
xact replica, 1I 32 scale, per:fect reproduction, 1I 12 pieces ofstripping and molding to my flats. I squared scale, tlawless design, 1I 16 scale. the edges so that everything was even; I carefully wiped 
Add to this list all those incredible entities which are excess cement from the creases; in summary, I handled reproduced to exact scale and what you have is a list of the work with kid gloves while striving for perfection in descriptions commonly found on the outside of my construction ofit. packaged car, boat. airplane. etc. models. On my way to class, I noticed that my edges weren't 
quite even because of the shadow that they cast in the Tori Brown early morning sun. Another imperfect, adequate job. "Perfection only comes to . . .to Michael. Anything that he touched, turned out perfect. His cars never had tlaws. In my tleeting mo­
features 

ments ofdespair at the sight ofunsquare edges, I cursed As a bored 12-year-old, I used to build models. :vly the fact that my brother was 150 miles away. I felt 
younger brother, Michael, started me in the enterprise assured that if he had built my model ... and succeeueu in spenuing my allowance for the If he had built my model the door pieces would have various sports cars that we would construct. lnvariab.ly, fit. I wouldn't have had to cut the crosspieces an eighth 
once the box was opened, he would take the engine ofan inch because I miscalculated my measurements. If pieces away from me and hand me the larger exterior he had built my model, the two wall pieces would have pieces. He was the perfectionist who didn't trust his met evenly every place besides the corners. Because of older sister to put the cylinders in the engine and not in the way that I cut the wall pieces the only places that I the gas tank. Older sister was a perfectionist but for the could match them were at the upper and lower corners. purpose ofaesthetics, not precision. There is a minute yet visible space where the two 
The day came when our separate allowances, if pieces meet. If he had built my model, it would have 
stored in a plaster piggy hank for a few weeks, were suf­been perfect. ficient to buy each of us our own personal model kit. Perfect. Like everything else about my brother, it too The days ofshared model building were over. Michael's would have been perfect. My brother, the model ofper­racing cars never failed the function test; the steering fection. wheel worked, the tires turned, the doors opened, and Wait a minute. Did I ju~l say that my brother was per-various other pieces moved the way that they should. fect~ 
My models? Well, suffice it to say that they stuck to­Yes. But what about? ... gether, albeit not for very long but they did stay in one Yeh, what about the time when .. piece. The only problem was that sometimes they When Midas touched anything it turned to gold. I 
weren't supposed to stick together that much. My cars have had the propensity in the past to believe that should have had turning tires and opening doors but it whatever my brother touched or did, was perfect. As an always seemed that the only way that Icould build them athlete, he is naturally agile, instinctively strategic and a was to glue everything shut. team leader; a coach's dream. In all the years of little 
His were perfect while mine were adequate. league baseball that I watched him play, he could do no Istopped building models when they only turned out wrong. Until ... 
adequately. Less than perfect was difficult to deal with, The day came when his size worked against him. He so I avoided the process and the disappointment. I couldn't play the "perfect" ball that he had become ac­wasn't interested in settling for anything that wasn't customed to playing. His stats fell short of perfection perfect. and tloundered .. 
Two weeks ago my stagecraft professor walked into My brother was not perkct. class with a cardboard model ofa set design. Wouldn't But he wasn't turning in an adequate pert(Jr­you know that our next project was constructing a mance. His talent, skill anu; rammg ailnwnl him to pt-r­model ofthe set design that we had been drawing for form to the best ofhis abilities. Doing the best one can is the last two weeks? very different from doing only an adequate job. 
Another model. Maybe I would have better success My model ofperfection came crashing into reality. with rectangular strips ofmatting board than I had with My dream was shattered. Oh, my! Oh, me! What am I plastic auto parts. going to do? 
My worst fears were realizing themselves. The I am going to look at my model and be satisfied that it thought weighed heavily on my mind that Iwould once is the very best that it can be; my model ofperfection, again turn in an adequate performance, and receive the Michael, and my set model. equally adequate grade that would accompany it. They aren't perfect but theyare the best they can be. 
With great care, I cut and cemented various sized And you know, that ain't bad. Not bad at all. 

Trivia quiz 52 

W 
hat did you think oflast week's 5. The definitive Who single 9. The four main members of the quiz? How about the center which peaked at a lowly 74 on the Who with their first solo LPs: spread on The Who~ I hope you American charts is, ofcourse, "My Pete Townshend -Who Came liked both as much as I did. Generation." First 
The answers to the Who trivia Roger Daltrey -Daltrey quiz (in italics in the below descrip­John Entwistle -Smash Your
6. The live EP released in Britain tions) from last l'riday are as follows: several years beforeLive at Leeds Head Against the Wall 
I. The Who's drummer prior to was -Ready, Stea,~y, Who (taken Keith Moon -Two Sides ofthe 
Keith Moon wasDoug Sanden, from a live performance on the Mhon replaced because he was too old for 
British TV program "Ready, Steady, the band's image ( 3'i ). 
Go") 
10. Here's what was strange about the Who Are You LP cover: Keith
7. Between ''I'm Free" and "Love,

Tim Neely 
Moon is sitting in a chair marked
Reign O'er Me," the Who released 
"Not To Be Taken Away." Not long
eight singles. The five unavaiable on 
after the album was released, Moon 
LP at time of release were "The 
died.
rock trivia Seeker," "Sumertime Blues," "Won't Get Fooled Again," 'Join Together,"

2. Because of problems with Dec­Onward and upward. I suppose.
and "The Relay." Of the eight, the

ca Records in their early days, for The trivia quiz this week consists of
biggest of them was "See Me, Feel 

one single -"Substitute" backed 
a mainstay of the charts, yesterday,
Me," taken from the Tommy LP,

with "Waltzfor a Pig"-the Who which peaked at number 12 (only "I 
today and forever -the one-hitrecorded for the American label wonder. Each of these acts had (or

Can See for Miles" has been bigger).

A teo. 
ha.-; had, as several ofthese are still
As an aside, the other two Who

3. To complete the Who history: vainly attempting followups) exact­
singles during the 1970-72 period

"They were first known as The ly one top-20 hit single during its
were a re-issue of"Substitute" from

Detours, then became The Who, Mea(y, Bea(y, Bi~ and Bouncy and 
career. N arne that briefclaim tothen became The High Numbers, fame.

"Behind Blue Eyes" from, ofcourse,

then became The Who again, then 
Who's Next. 

performed underMaximum R & B 
for a brief time, and then finally and I. The Pyramids irrevocably kept the name The 8. The only number-one LP featur­2. Alan O'Day Who." ing The Who was-Woodstock, on 3. Vicki Sue Robinson 
4. Their single while known as the which they performed "We're Not 4. King Floyd 
High Numbers was "Zoot Suit" Gonna Take It." (Three Who LPs 5. Pigmeat Markham backed with "I'm the Face" (not as have peaked at number two -6. Shorty Long obscure as it once wa.-;, as both Quadrophenia, the Tommy movie 7. Frankie Ford 
8. The Fifth Estate 

tracks are readily available on the soundtrack, and WboAre You -but Quadmphenia movie soundtrack none have made it that final notch 9.Ace 
I.P) up the charts. Mavbe It's Hard will.) 10. Z.Z. Top 



STRAITS: over gold 
rpowell-known performers have recently released albums 
.1 which go against the prevailing tide ofblatant commerciality, and each for its different reasons. Bruce Springsteen'sNebraska features "The Boss" solo, without his E Street Band, and playing acoustic guitar and harmonica with very little production ... a very 
risky undertaking in today's formula-rock world. The new LP by Dire Straits, aptly titledLove OverGold, bucks another prevailing trend in today's music: the short, compact, "obvious hit single" which can be found on almost any album today regardless ofthe act. 
Tim Neely 
record review 

Dire Straits has never· really made singles for singles' sake, anyway; 
their major hit of 1979, "Sultans ofSwing," was nearly six minutes 
long. OnLoveOverGold, they outdo themselves. There are only five 
tracks on the entire LP, the shortest ofwhich clocks in at five 
minutes, 50 seconds. But these five tracks represent the crowning 
achievement of Dire Straits' four-album career. 
Refusing to stay stagnant, they have moved forward with each al­
bum. After the success oftheir amplified-acoustic-guitar-oriented 
debut albumDireStraits, they could have continued to milk that for­
mula, but they didn't. With each new album they left enough ofthe 
old sound intact so that there was some connection with the past, 
yet at the same time added instruments like piano and synthesizer to 
fatten up the sound somewhat. This time around, Dire Straits has 
grown from a three-and-a-halfsome (onMaking Movies) to a five­
man band, adding a full-time keyboardist and another guitarist. As a 
result, the sound is more full and less sparse overall than that on 
prior Dire Straits albums. 
Another accomplishment Dire Straits has accomplished withLove 
OverGold is a major European hit single. Dire Straits always has been 
much more popular on the other side ofthe Atlantic, but what is un­
usual about the hit single is that it is so different. "Private Investiga­
tions" is basically a mood piece, with a synthesizer humming 
ominously in the background throughout, and with aspoken vocal 
by Mark Knopfler. The piece brings up images ofa foggy night in Lon­
don; the combination ofhushed lyrics and mournful, almost eerie ac­
companiment works perfectly to set this mood. Not a formula piece 
at all, yet it has made the top three in halfa dozen different countries, 
including England and the Netherlands. 
Another interesting song, and one which shows perfectly how full 
the band's sound has become, is "Industrial Disease." Alan Clark's or­
gan after each verse adds immeasurably to the piece. Played in a mid­
1960s garage-band style, like that found in "Double Shot (of My 
Baby's Love)" by Swingin' Medallions or "Liar, liar" by the Cas­
taways, it makes the song seem like a fun piece, not to be taken too seriously -the point that Knopfler is trying to make with the song, lyrically and musically. Sure, the Western world is having problems, but things are not as absurdly bad as they seem, Knopfler seems to be saying. 
The crowning point ofLove Over Gold is the 14-minute, 20­second magnum opus "Telegraph Road." This belongs in the same category as other classic long songs, like Elton John's "Funeral for a Friend/Love Lies Bleeding." An impressive piece in which the music perfectly complements the lyrics, the mood changes from optimistic to pessimistit: (with a sombersolo piano part about five minutes into the piece) back to not-quite-the-same. 
The other two pieces, "Love Over Gold" and "It Never Rains," also are very good, combining Knopfler's insightful lyrics with com­plementary accompaniment. Both ofthese, like every songon the al­bum save "Industrial Disease," end with long instrumental passages. While in many artists' work this kind ofending is a show ofunneces­sary excess, in the case of Dire Straits they add to the pieces, and especially in "Private Investigations." 
This album has five songs, all in different forms, all evoking dif­ferent moods, and yet they are all pulled offsuccessfully. Another one ofthose timeless rock records -that is one way to describe Dire Straits' Love Over Gold. 
~ 
ND-SMC Ski Team announces a mandatory meeting for all those interested in a Christmas vacation trip to Steamboat Springs, Colo., to be held tonight at 8:30 in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Please bring the 575. deposit. -The Obseroer. 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a mandatory · meeting tomorrow night at 8:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre for all members racing at the Head ofthe Charles. Bring your check book. -The Obseroer 
Windsurfers are remindedthat a meeting of their club will be held tonight at 9 in the main lobby of LaFortune. Prospective members are welcome. -The Obseroer. 

Saint Mary's basketball teamwm hotd tryouts 
today, tomorrow, and Friday from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. They will also be held Saturday morning from 9 to 11. For more information, call Tim Dillon at 284-5548. -The Obseroer 
Stepan Center courtsare now available to hans and groups. Reservations for the Nov. 1 to April 8 period must be made by Friday. Reservation forms are available at the Student Activities Office in the LaFortune Student Center. -The Obseroer 
Today is the deadline for entering IH handball, IH racquetball, Grad-Fac racquetball, Co-Ree volleyball, Co-Ree basket­ball, Faculty volleyball, and Grad. volleybalL The deadline for admis­sion to the six-mile run is Oct.20. Further information can be obtained by calling NVA at 239-5100. -The Obseroer. 
See BRIEFS, page 9 
Wl.ry does this man look worried? Gerry Faust knows that un­blemished records and top ten rankings do not guarantee instant victory. The Irish football team 
faces a tough battle this Saturday 
against the University of Arizona 
Wildcats. See story, page 12. 

Classifieds  The Observer wrll accept classrfreds Mon­day through Friday 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classrfieds to appear rn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to rnsertron. All classtfteds must be pre pard. etther rn person or through the marl.  
GOING TO CENTRAL JERSEY? 2 OF US NEED A RIDE THERE FORNOTICES FOR RENT BREAK CALL DON AT x1630 IS YOUR HAIR GETIING IN THE WAY Nice furnished house 2 blocks to N.D. Need ride to S1oux Falls, SO or area. IfOF YOUR STUDIES?? 277-3604 or 288-0955 you are g01ng to or through th1s area callCALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT Matt x1025. Will share usual. TODAY! Student Housing -Clean -Sate. ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR $100/mo. 291-1405. Need ride to Nashville, TN lor Oct. Break. GIRLS Can leave Wed. 10/20. Also need rideBEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 back1o NO from N. New Jersey on 10/31. If you can help with either PLEASE callWORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 Janet at 4571 Will share usual 64K Microcomputer.letter quality pnnter, WANTED word processing software, CP/M, Bas1c. RIDE needed to BOSTON tor OctoberCall 277-7720 break. Will share dnving and expensesRIDE NEEDED TO ROCHESTER. NY Call STEVE at 277-8785, afternoons orLake Michigan beach cottage 30 mi. from FOR FALL BREAK. WILL SHARE evenings.NO Sleeps 12 Fireplace Outdoor bar­USUAL WANDA 7770 beque Ideal tor housaparties $150 3 day PLEASE HELP! need nde to WASH.DCweekend phone 616 469 0148 RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE FOR for oct break. Will help with usual Maura BREAK WILL SHARE EXP. CHANTAL x2244NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO OVER 7770 FALL BREAK--WILL PAY CALL ROB NEED RIDE ON 1·80 EAST TO EAST·6721 Riders needed to Daytona Beach, ERN PA FOR OCT BREAK-ROB 1782 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Florida or any points along the way tor October Break. Call Denny at 277-0836 Need 1 or 2 GA·s tor the Anzona game!!! call Don at 288·3051COLORADO FOR BREAK!! PLEASE soon HELP TWO WILD DOMERS REACH THE ROCKIES --NEED A ONE-WAY RIDE TO ANY PART OF CO. WILL RIDE NEEDED to Mlnneeota lor Oc­SHARE USUAL, AND CAN BRING BACK tober Break. Call Cethy, 3793. Thanks! FOR SALE RIDERS.CALL LORI at 7801 OR DIANA at 6983. DESPERATE!!!!! NEED RIDERS TO CLEVELAND OCT 15-18 call Dennis 289-2511 TWO RUSH TIX ROW 15 CENTER TYPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY 272­STAGE. BEST OFFER. BOB 3259 5337 3 GIRLS DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO DC FOR BREAK CALL 6781 Need riders to the glorious World-Series city of St. Louis MISSOuri! (GO RED­I need a ride to San Fran tor Oct. break. I TICKETSBIRDS!!) Leaving for October break can leave Thurs. 10/21. Please call Sean Friday aanernoon. Oct 22. call D1ane at 'It 288-2204. 7983. YEA CARDINALS!!! NEW YORK NEW YORK Will trade 2 Anz. GAs (&cash) tor 2 Penn Expenenced Typist: WILL DO TYPING · NEED RIDE TO NYC tor October Bk Will St. GAs. Kevin 277-3919 REASONABLE RATES. Call287-5162 share usual PLUS good cookies Call Joann at 6239 WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 OCTOBER BREAK COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE Need a ride for 2 down to the Miami/Ft. LONGLEY. Lauderdale area Will share costs Please call6965 NEED 6 ARIZ GAS-DOUG at 6166 LOST: Tl55 Calculator on Friday, 9/23. need ride to CONNECTICUT tor OCT Call John L Ecuyer at 232-0550. Kathy · Need 4 Anzona G. A s 283· 7970 BREAK Doug x8389 the one who called about my calculator NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX Please call me aga1n. You gave me the RIDE NEEDED TO KANSAS CITY (ORwrong number. CALL MEG-7628 TO ANYWHERE ALONG 1-70 WEST OR 1-35 SOUTH) FOR BREAK -WILL DESPERATE: I NEED 2-4 PENN STATE ORANGE STONE CALL GINA 6553 SHARE USUAL· CALL KATE AT 4376 GAS RIGHT NOW--WILL PAY$$$ CALLCALL GINA 6553 JIM 3132 NOW-PLEASE!!! To whomever picked up my CORDUROY TWO GIRLS NEED RIDE TO PHILL Y JACKET outside the south dinn~ng hall on FOR BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL VOLUPTUOUS LITTLE SISTER hasFriday. Why do you you want rt? Its too CALL CELESTE AFTER 7 X7895 old and beat-up tor any respectable per­never seen an N D game! Her LAST and ONLY chance IS PENN ST She and her son to wear but I WANT IT BACK!!! It you 2 ndes needed to Dayton lor the weekend entourage need 2 GAs and 3 stud. t1x.have it for any reason it has my name m 1t, ol October 15-17. Will share usual. call Were talktng BIG$$ hereI! Joe: t 652 so call AI at 3423.. Bngette x1333or Tony xB514 LOST: Hewlett-Packard calculator in East coast parents need Penn St GA·s 1! black leather-like pouch It was left in DRIVING TO OR THRU S DAKOTA FOR you can help call Donna at 5472 SMC e1ther 214 Math/computer or the OCT. BREAK? I NEED A RIDE-CALL P.S. I also need Anzona stud tix, Help! Auditorium in Cush1ng. It you know any­MARLENE 2963 thing about it, please call John K1lcran at NEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GA TICKETS 8534. RIDERS wanted on 1-80 east to central $$$CALL MIKE AT 1475 PA (exit 31 or near). Call Greg at 1758 Whoever "FOUND" my I. D. and football tix Saturday for $10, please return them NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME1 $$$ I NEED A RIDE TO BOSTON. IF I DONT as stated in our verbal contract K. Hew· CALL 1627 GET TO BOSTON I HAVE TO GO SEEson, 261 C.CE 283-7443. MY PARENTS SO TAKE ME TO BOS­NEED 2 PAIR PITT GAs PHIL 1764 TON WITH YOU LOST: 1 RICOH MEN'S WRIST CHRIS 1774 WATCH. PLEASE NEED 2 OR MORE GA S FOR ARIZONA RETURN REWARD CALLJOE 11888Wo CALL EILEEN AT SMC 5239 RIDE NEEDED FOR TWO TO BOSTON FOR OCT BREAK CALL ME, STEVE.LOST: Notre Dame class ring atthe Miam1 I NEED 2 GAs tor Anzona Please call AT 234-9580 Pep Rally. Please return 1t! My father will Teresaat7130 kill me if I show up at home without it. Call NEED nders or nde to PITTSBURGH Tom. 8602. REWARD. areaonweekendotOct 16& 17Ca11Tony Will trade Anzona GAs lor Penn State Tix 277-3067 or 239-6328 Call8125 Found: one necklace after Alumni party. Call Matt 1025. NEED RIDE TO ST LOUIS FOR OC­DESPERATELY NEED PENN TIX, TOBER BREAK CALL AMY AT 8040 BOTH GA & STUDENT CALL SUE AT Found: Calculator in Cushing on Wed. WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS. 283-7389 Oct. 6. Call1766 to identify and cla1m. RIDERS;: TO CHAMPAIGN, IL ON OCT NEED 4 GA TIX TO PENN ST $$$CALL LOST: Nikon cam~. a in black case on 21 & BACK OCT 31 COLLEEN 7842 JIM 233-2386 Friday · in area of the Dome. Call 284­5313-Reward! Need two rides to ROCHESTER, NY on DESPERATE. Need 2 ARIZONA GA"a. Fri Oct 22 Call Mike 8265. LOST T.l. PROGRAMABLE CAL· Pleau call Michele, 3793. Thankl. CULATOR THURS. MATH BUILDING .................................................................. I need ride to BOSTON Oct Brk Joan 2702 AFTER STATS TEST. CALL ROB 6827 WE NEED ARIZONA & PENN ST GAs. PLEASE!! CALL DON OR DAVE AT 1850 A-FRAMES A-FRAMES LETS Gu TO CINCINATTI NEED will trade FIRST · BORN MALE ch1ld plus FOUND; SET ROOM KEYS SAT. NITE RIDERS FOR (15th) WEEKEND CALL $$$ tor TWO ARIZONA GAs Call Joe at AT No. 36 TO CLAIM CALL 3454 8531 289.5964  FOR SALE 1 STUDENT TIC FOR ARIZONA & PENN STATE. BEST OF­FER. CALL277-8194 For Sale: 2 Arizona GAs (also w/trade tor 2 Penn State GAs & cash). Call 1195. ............ '' ................................ HELP I NEED ARIZ GAS CALL ROB 6827 DESPERATELY NEED 3 GAS FOR ARIZONA; COULD MEAN EMPLOYE NT CALL STEVE AT 232-0550 wanted desperately! tix for the penn st game. w111 pay bux deluxe. matt 277· 4573. I NEED 2 GA's FOR ARIZONA. PLEASE CALL CAROLYN AT 8067. Need Arizona GA scall1741 I NEED MUGHO ARIZONA TIX. JOE 1154 TRADE. PARENTS HAVE 4 GA'S FOR ARIZONA BUT CANT MAKE IT WANT TO TRADE 2 OR 4 ARIZONA TICK S FOR THE SAME No. PENN TICK'S. MUST KNOW BY WED. CALL BILL, 1434. NEED TWO GAs FOR ARIZONA CALL JIM AT 282-1527 NEED ARIZONA TIX x1173 Tom Need 2 Anzona GAs. Call Jim at 3342. Need Anz. student t1x. Call1193 DEAD it we don·t get 4 GA's tor Arizona, can you help us? Call T1na at 4320 or Brenda at 4376 urgently reqwe 1 (one) GA Anzona please call c1ndy 771 t GEEE If I don t get Anzona tickets tor th1s weekend, my brother Wally Will clobber me!! Please help by callmg "The BEAVER at 1179 !!! For sale: 2 Anzona GA's Best otter Call Steve at 1170 ARIZONA TIX NEED 2 or 4 GAs please call Dave 7289 NEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GA TICKETS CALL MARK 8046 Need 6 GAs & 2 Student tlx to Arizona Galt Steve 1061 Need 2 An zona GAs Call John t 582 Need SIX GAs tor Anzona game For en· thus1ast1c alumn~! Please call 283-1809 Thank you! I NEED PITT,PENN ST GAs $$$ CALL BRENDAN 3207 NEED ARIZONA GA TIXS. PETE 232­1466 For Sale: Anzona GA t1x. Call M1ke at t608!! Need 1 Anzona Stu T1cketCall Brian 8315 WANTED: 2 ARIZONA GAS PLEASE CALL RON AT 6496 NEED 4-6 NAVY GA'SI CALL STEVE 239-5713 NEEDED TWO STUD TIX FOR ARIZONA GAME PLEASE CALL 3574 Need two GAs lor Anzona game Call ark at 277-2455 Will trade two Anzona GAs tor two Penn St. GAs Paul3436 NEED ARIZONA GAs & STUDENTS Parents & Grandparents already on the way from Texas Call Dan at 3522 $$$$ Need 2 GA s lor An zona call Mike 7980 Need 2 Student or GA s lor ARIZONA Please call Kevtn at 277-1705  SAINT LOUIS WON THE NATIONAL LEAGUE PENANT AND THEY AREPERSONALS GOING TO GO ALL THE WAY BE­CAUSE THEY ARE THE GREATESTIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHI Colleen! Sigh . Your Secret Admtrer Need a ride to either northern N-Jer­"MISSING DRAMA and SUSPENSE uy (right off Rt. 80) or the Allentown,Come see what it s all about. Oct 12. 13 Pa. area lor October break. Can laaveShowings 7,9:15,11:30. Engr. Aud Wednesday, Oct. 20. Call Mike, 277­4300.DOES THE U.S. GOV'T TELL US ALL IT KNOWS ABOUT THOSE "MISSING ? Patt1-ricia.MRS. SCHWARZMAN saidShowing Oct 12, 13. Engr Aud you have thmgs planned tor your bda y 7,9:15,11:30. WHAT DEBONAIR BOY? I'll go ROLLIN into the hall-all I need is a pillow'!TRUE TALE TO BE TOLD ABOUT IN­BELIEVE ME. I know( smile) you read the TERNATIONAL COVER-UP. "MISSING" book.. are you still contused??? LOVEOct 12,13. Engr Aud. 7,9:15,11:30. YOU!! To all SMC Student Teachers-HAPPY BIRTHDAY PATTI CONWAY!!We're over halfway there. Have a good 3 Accept1ng shots and kisses and ??? inand a half weeks. Maybe Burkhart was 235 Farley ..see you at CORBYS!! wrong-we may yet survive the slaughter Good Luck! SOME OF YOU MISSED IT LAST NIGHTIII Don't miss it tonight. BarneySENIORS!!SENIORS!!Ciass T·Shirts Rebel invites you to share 1n the tunlunfun have arrived. Short supply so get yours wrth the Notre Dame FIRST NEW MUStKearly from DORM REP ...MAKE THE UN­KLUB. We will d1scuss the first TerminalDERCLASSMEN JEALOUS!!SENIORS!! Blowout. We need all who can attend to be there. but ~ there are questions, call Barney Rebel at 8489 or the Robb1rt at 3479. Soma of you are going to mlaalt.Want to earn a few extra dollars? Do you All Raetaman ahoutd deflnltaly behave Tuesdays, noon to 31ree? It so, join there or tlalla Salalau aay BEWARE­the Observer staff. We are looking tor a no aacremant lor you...Tuesday dayeditor tor the Saint Marys ott1ce. Interested? Call Margaret, 284­TO the ladies from LeMans and McCand· 4316 for more into. or stop by the NO less at the East Coast ·gater lastoffice. Start checking out those tax shel­Saturday:ters.. A Shipment of brownies or chocolate chips is be<ng awaitedRem1nder tor THEO majors: Coffee and -MIKE R (x1462)punch w1th Fr. Burtchaell Thursday, 4:30 to 6 pm Come and see JTB!! M1ke R 19, Ready. Closet Experienced Your ac­ROBERT-­tions were more 1mportant than my name.The Calitorn~a Angels were QUICHE PS Hey Bud. Let's Party! EATERS and the St LoUIS Cardinals are PPS. Until You Drop! next!! I can smell that ptzza now . ..,.. HELP, I need a nde to COLORADO tor R1ders needed to Boston or po1nts along Oct break Call M1ke at 8435 the way tor Oct break. We are filling a van so it Will be cheap Call Lou at 8378 or R1de W1th The T1de... Vote Sheila FLOOD Clicker at 8366 any t1me, day or night. lor Freshmen CounCil on Oct. 14. P S. Noah d1d!! Harvey Kuenn & The Brew Crew HARVEYS WALLBANGERS' Go Brewers! To the blond, blue eyed Adon~s who was in Sect1on 35, Row 54, seat 21, at the BOGART IS BACK'! Pre-Law Soc1ety Mtamtgame: presents CASABLANCA, Thurs. & Fri , You belong on the cover of GO It was lust Eng Aud. 7,9&11 HERES LOOKING at first s1ght' Whats your number? An Ad· AT YOU!! m1rer from Sectton 34 '8310pm TODAY LaFortune Batlroom '83 SUMMER PROGRAMS -LONDON (MAY 17-JUNE 16) ROME (JUNE 13 -JULY 12), COURSES IN ART, BUS~ NESS, EDUCATION, HISTORY, HOLLO I ITALIAN, MUSIC 6 PHILOSOPHY. IN­COLIU-N• FO. MEETING ON OCT. 18, 7 P.M. (232 MOREAU -SMC). CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK 4460 OR 272-3726. ··s-£ij'iO"Rs.iii5fiji'Orisi.iisE"NioR.sii·i-­TO THE YOUNG BICYCLIST WHO RAN INTO MY CAR TUESDAY AT NOON BE·coffee and Doughnuts at 1 Opm 2nd Floor HIND THE FLANNER AND GRACELaFortune See you there! · TOWERS SORRY ISNT ENOUGH THERE ARE TWO LONG SCRATCHESWHERE IS THE ADONIS?? Is he tor ON MY BLUE FORD IF YOU WANT TO real? REDEEM YOURSELF, PLEASE CALL JOAN AT 233·9045 BEWARE OF THE BONEHEAD!!!!!!!! RASTAFARIIII NEW WAVERSIIIDEAR MYRON LEVY, ROCKERS, MODS, TEDDY BOYS ANDTHANK YOU FOR MAKING SATURDAY THE OTHER 132 PEOPLE WHOTHE BEST' DECIDED TO BE KOOLIII Sorry aboutSURFER GIRL the m1smtormat1on yesterday, but today·s ad IS the reel th1ng The reel th1ng will beDEAR BIG BROTHER, ton~ght at 9:30 in the Auditorium of the Ar­WATCH OUT' THE PILLOW ABUSER chitecture building. We are going toIS LOOSE rapraprap about the newsletter. and otherYOUR SWEET LITTLE SISTER crap we gotta get out of the way--but then we gonna d1scuss I to I about thisHI MARIE AFTER 40, IT'S OVER weekend's inauguraiNUCLEARGESIAKOWSKII BLOWOUT PARTY. If you·ve no 1dea about what s go1ng on 1n the hottest newDear Schm1ttles. club on campus. call Barney Rebel atHope you enjoyed Saturday as much as I d1d See you soon 8489 or Robbl at 34 79 Some of you have already mlaaad lt. BE THERE ORYour namesake BE SQUARE. JOE RICE-YOU ARE SOOOO HARD Watch out N.D! The Brenda L Stirks Port­TO GET A HOLD OFIII WHY DON'T A-Party may be com1ng your way soon YOU ANSWER YOUR PHONE Get ready gang-The lake awa1ts. BLS ANYMORE AT 5 A.M.? Love n· kisses. shew can !~r<:>w a port-a-party! (STORMY candia !rom SMC has noth1ng to do w1th th1s)  

The Observer 

Larry Bird shows that he's lost none of his ability in the off­season in an exhibition game between the Boston Celtics and the Philadelphia 76ers at Providence, R.I. (AP Photo) 
... Briefs 

continuedfrom page 8 
BillVirdon,fired this season after seven years as manager ofthe Houston Astros. has signed a one-year contract to manage the Montreal Expos. Virdon, 51. replacesJim Fanning, who has returned to the front office following a disappointing season in which the Expos finished third in the National League West, six games behind the division-winning St. Louis Cardinals. Fanning, the Expos' former general manager. took over the team on Sept. 8, 1981 when Dick Williams was fired and led Montreal to the East title. -Associated Press 
Wednesday, October 13, 1982 -page 9 
Enter tall seasons 

N.D.club sports prosper 

SOCCER-In only their second game ofthe year, the 
women's soccer A team was able to gel as a unit to 
defeat a tough Saint Mary's team 2-0 last Friday. The 
inexperienced Irish were able to adjust to the fast turf 
and the aggressive play of Saint Mary's to even their 
record at 1-1. 

Sophomore Letty Valdes scored two goals for the Irish -one on a penalty kick -and Tracy Walters registered her first shutout to assure Notre Dame ofthe victory. The real hero of the game, though, was fresh­man Michelle Grace. Playing a defensive role for most of the game, Grace was able to to turn numerous Belles scoring threats into Notre Dame advantages. Her play, as club secretary Carol Drobinski described, was 
simply outstanding." Her fantastic afternoon didn't end with the great defensive plays though. Grace was moved to center-forward late in the game and im­mediately responded with an assist for Valdes' second goal. 
For the second game in a row, Helen Locher was able 
to control the midfield with her aggressive play. For­
ward Sarah Hand also played brilliantly for the Irish. 
The team travels to Marquette and Northwestern this 
weekend for two oftheir final matc.hes ofthe fall. 
RUGBY -The rugby football club played host to the 
Chicago-West Side Condors last Saturday and came 
away with an 11-7 victory. The win upped their record 
to 4-0-1 and kept their unbeaten streak intact. 

Another streak was also lengthened as Brian 
Moynihan once again figured in the scoring. Although 
not scoring on a try himself, he assisted on one to to 
Matt O'Donnell. O'Donnell scored twice for the Irish as 
they were able to come back from a 3-0 halftime deficit. 
With the wind at their backs in the second half, Notre 
Dame was able to score eleven unanswered points to 
put the game away. Steve Schneider connected on a 47­
yard penalty kick-his longest of the season-before 
seeing his streak of successful conversions come to an 
end. The wind rain, and mud made playing difficult 
against the highly-respected Chicago side. 

The rugby club's B team was not as successful at 
overcoming the weather. Their match with the Con­
dors B side ended without either team scoring. Tom 
Fallon and Tom Comer led the defensive charge for the 
Irish. 

The team hosts John Carroll of Cleveland this Satur­
day at 3:30 behind Stepan. 

CROSS COUNTRY -The women's cross country 
team continued its rigorous schedule last Friday at Wes­
tern Michigan. Up against teams stacked with scholar­
ship runners, the Irish were able to finish seventh out of 
the ten teams in the race. 
Club Comer 

Maria Fiore continued to set the pace for the Notre Dame women as she covered the 5,000-meter course in 
19:58 for a 27th place finish in the field of 75 runners. Fiore was the only Irish runner able to better her time from last week on a course that was considerably slower. Anne Attea was second for Notre Dame with a time of 20:09 and a 34th place finish, while Rose Marie Luking ( 20:42) finished 46th. Rounding out the top five runners for the team were Amy Kerwin, 21 :20 and 51st, and Gina Ochsner, 21:31 and 5 3rd. 
The team is on the road again this week when they run in the Hillsdale Invitational on Saturday. 
ROWING -The rowing club continued its prepara­tion for the Head of the Charles Race in Boston with a race Saturday against a group ofcrew alumni. 
The team's eight beat the alumni. eight while the lightweight eight was defeating the novice eight. The club eight is the best eight rowers on the team and has no }Veight or age restrictions. The _lightweight eight consists of eight rowers with a combined weight of no more than 128 .0 pounds (an average weight ofno more than 160 per person). A third type of boat that did not race Saturday is the youth eight. All rowers in the boat have to be under twenty years old, but there is no weight restriction. 
The team's most important race of the fall is during October break at the Head ofthe Charles. The women's crew team finished second there against a field ofover '50 sculls last year. 
Got an opinion on sports? 
Sendyourcomments to Sports baitor P.O.HoxQ Notre Dame, Ind. 
SMCBelles drop a pair ofmatches 
ByRENEFOY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Belles volleyball 
team was defeated twice yesterday 
in matches against St. Francis ( 6-1 5, 
1 5-8. 0-1 5) and Goshen ( 4-I '5, 8­
1'5 ). The Belles five-game winning 
streak was ended by the losses. 
Coach Erin Murphy commented 
on the attitude of her team. "You 
can't go out just to play, and that's 
what r •. .:y did." 
The team's enthusiasm has been 
good in the past, but last night they 
lacked motivation. On the positive 
side. Gene Weigand played out­
standing defense and Molly Baker 
gave the team some spark but it was 
not enough to pull out a win for the 
Belles. A few bad plays seemed to start a roll and eight points slipped by. 
A variety of different shots by St. Francis's hitters threw the Belles off in the first match. Goshen had very good players that ran a quick attack and got the better of Saint Mary's in the second match. 
The Belles next match will start at 
6:30p.m., tomorrow, at Bethel. 

Growley hospitalized, in critical condition 
By TONY CLEMENTS 
Sports Writer 
Jim Crowley, the last surviving 
member of the famed and feared 
"Four Horseman" backfield, is in 
critical condition in a Scranton, 
Pa.. hospital. 
Crowley. 80. was admitted to 
Moses Taylor Hospital Sunday af 
ter sufferring what has been 
described as a "massive heart at­
tack." 
Along with backfield mates El­mer Layden, Harry Stuhldreyer, and Creighton Miller, Crowley was immortalized by sports writer Grantland Rice after the 1924 Army game. 
"Outlined against a blue. grav October skv the Four Horsemen rode again." Rice wrote. "In dramatic lore they are known as famine. pestilence, destruction and death. These are only aliases." 
A spokesman for the hospital. Phyllis Snyder, says that, al­though Crowley is still listed as critical, he is "feeling quite a bit better." 
As a player. the 'i-1 I. 162­pound Crowley was known as "Sleepy Jim" for his drowsy-eyed appearance. But he was, accord­ing to many. the best ball carrier of the four. 
In 1966, Crowley was elected to the National Footba,ll Founda­tion Hall of Fame. 

lAW S~I-4UUllA~4~4~1 



IRISH NIGHT 
AT SaintMary's Clubhouse 
Come and enjoy the music of 
Jim Corr and Friends 
Authentic Irish Band Wed. night 


9p.m. 
~ 

snacks and agood time provided 
r 
The Observer Wednesday, October 13, 1982 -page I 0 
... Series 
continuedfrom page 12 
League Championship Series, giving 
up five earned runs on seven bits to 
the California Angels. 
This time, with everything on the 
line, Caldwell was nearly flawless. 
The double he gave up to Porter in the second inning probably would have been a single if the Brewers had been playing at home. But on the artificial surface of Busch Stadium, Porter's soft liner took a huge bounce over right fielder's Charlie Moore's head and by the time center fielder Gorman Thomas had tracked it down, Porter was on 
second. The hit became meaning­less, however, when rookie David Green lined out softly to Cecil Cooper at first base to the dismay of the standing-room-only crowd of 53,723. 
Perhaps unwilling to face the predicament they had in the last week of the season and again in the playoffs, the Brewers moved quickly to take the lead. 
With one out in the first inning, Yount singled and Forsch walked Cooper on four pitches. Simmons then struck out, looking at a Forsch fastball on the outside of the plate, bringing up Oglivie, who hit a liner right at Hernandez's feet. The ball skipped by the first baseman un­touched for an error as Yount scored 
and Co0per raced to third base. 
Gorman Thomas followed with an 
infield hit deep to the right of 
shortstop Ozzie Smith. who gloved 
the ball in outfield territory but was 
unable to hold onto ;t as Cooper 
scored. 
Forsch hit the next batter, designated hitter Roy Howell, with a pitch but escaped further damage when Moore popped to Hernandez in foul territory. 
Forsch again was in trouble in the second inning, allowing consecutive one-out singles to Molit,>r and Yount, but he retired both Cooper. and Simmons on pop-ups. 
In baseball 
Irish top Bethel College, 7-2 


By NEAL SMITH 
Sports writer 
"It's just what the team needed," commented Coach Larry Gallo after the Irish baseball team defeated Bet­hel College 7-2 yesterday at Jake Kline Field. 
Bethel College, just a few miles away in Mishawaka, scored its two runs early in the game. After Notre Dame pitcher Steve Whitmyer struck out the first two batters ofthe game, Bethel College scored two un­earned runs without the ball ever leaving the infield. 
The Irish ( 4-7) got on the scoreboard in the second. Jim Dee's triple to right field knocked in David Clark, who had singled, making the score 2-1 Bethel. 



Notre Dame tied the game up an inning later. With two outs, Rick Chryst reached first on a single. Phil Dingle followed with a single of his own to left, which was misplayed by the leftfielder enabling Chryst to score. 
Two innings later the Irish took a 3-2 lead. After a Jack Moran lead-off triple, Chryst brought him home with a sacrifice fly to deep center. 
With a new Bethel pitcher, Notre Dame scored again in the sixth. A Casey Snyder pinch-hit double 
continuedfrom page 12 
"There was a lot of character in that comeback," said Faust. "It showed the sign of a team maturing and that's an important aspect." 
Faust certainly can look at that fourth quarter as possibly the tur­ning point for his offense. But the Irish are going to need to put the ball in the end zone against Arizona. 
"Arizona is an excellent team with great speed and put the emphasis on speed," said Faust, well aware that a scored two runners. Snyder was followed by yet another Moran triple. A mishandle on the relay throw on the triple, allowed Moran to complete the circuit of the bases. This ended the scoring at 7-2. 
"Everybody did their job in the last inning," remarked Coach Gallo. He stated that a close 3-2 advantage was converted to a secure 7-2 lead. 
Whitmyer received the victory as he went the distance for the Irish. Along the way he picked up seven strikeouts. 

Roles reversed for 
, , .Faust Purdue this tVeekend 
team with speed can <.:ause the irish trouble. "They played Washington, the No. 1 team, and beat them in the second half 13-3 and they tied UCLA, another ranked team." 
Arizona lost to Washington 23-13 and UCLA had to come from behind for a 24-24 tie. The Wildcats defeated Oregon State but lost to Iowa. 
"Arizona really rallies when they play tough teams away from home," said Faust "and thc Fighting Irish are high on their list." 
Buy 
Observer 
G'tassijieds 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) ­Morale remains excellent on a Purdue football team hungry for its first victory, says Boilermaker coach Leon Burtnett. 
Burtnett credits his seniors with keeping morale high despite the five Purdue losses this season and the 
nine-game  losing  streak  his  club  
takes  against  Northwest ern  here  
Saturday.  

"I've told our seniors this is the 
most important game they've played at Purdue," said Burtnett during his weekly telephone news conference. 
Northwestern, the doormat ofthe Big Ten in recent years, will be arriv­ing herc after snapping a 38-game conference losing streak with last Saturday's 31-21 upset ofMinneota. 
"I want to congratulate Denny (Northwestern Coach Dennis Green) for the vast improvement on his football team. They totally dominated Minnesota in the second half." 
Green, who participated in the news conference from the Big Ten luncheon in Chicago, said the team's 
ATTENTION: SENIORS!. 
Turn in your Yearbook Portrait Proofs! 
Where: LaFortune Student Center, B.m. 20 Times: 9:30am -1:30pm and 1st floor 2:30pm • 5:00 pm Dates: October 11· 15 Please see the Varden Representative as indicated 
A • E: October 11 
-~ •• oc•ober 19
F • U< II Iii 
K.0: October 13 P ·S: October 14 T • Z: October 15 

4 Thank you for your cooperation 
second victory after compiling the 
longest losing streak in major col­
lege football history ( 34 games) 
"verified in our minds where our 
program is going." 

Green called the passing game directed by Purdue quarterback Scott Campbell"very exciting." 
"We're the No. 1-rated pass defense in the conference and our rush defense is improving," Green said. "I believe ifwe can put heat on the quarterback the passing game is not going to jell." 
Burtnett, an assistant at Purdue when the Boilermakers scored their last victory nearly a year ago against Michigan State, said he believed the club had been playing well enough to produce a victory. 
"I think we'\fe played well for the 
last three weeks," Burtneu said. 
"Our team js hungry for a victory, a 
victory they think in the last three 
weeks they've deserved."' 

The latest loss came when the Boilermakers werc outscored 38-34 at Illinois as a last-second touch­down attempt was caught just out of the end zone. 
"Offensively we've played well enough to win," Burtneu said. "We have not heen a good defensive team, especially the last 2-and-a-half weeks the defense has shown its in­experience and we've allowed the big play." 
Northwestern will be seeking its first football victory over Purdue since 1975 when the Wildcats posted a 3"1-25 decision. Until last Saturday, the Wildcats had gone nearly five years without a con­ference victory. 
"The mood is better because we 
feel we're playing good football," 
said Green. "We're getting a lot bet­
ter." 

One reason the team appears to be improving is a bigger front line-an area mentioned by both coaches. 
"It's hard to be physical when 
you're small," Green, who has an of­fensive line that averages around 
255poundsthisseason. Burtnett said one ofthose interior linemen, 6-foot-5, 261-pound Chris Hinton, is probably the top offensive 
....~,.,~-~·-··"'i·-;;·-~···~~··i'"""'~·~-'~"~-i"';:j··'t:!·"~'li""~···~····~,i"'·a· .· ···~·....""....·""..,.".,..·.....-...·•....·--·-....·.Jii.....'................~....-..._......,...;_.,.;.....;;;v..,....::,;,;._...;·--~-r.;;;Y;.;o;.;u=r;;....Y;;;..;;e;,;;ar;;:;;:b;.:O;;::lO-.;k:;::v:St~a:::f::::f::::·";A.;..f··~""'. r:ckle.!~ the c:~ference. ..,_ -·· . ~ 
~~============================= 
T0 d~x=============w=e=d=n=e=sd=a=y=,=o=c=to=b=e=r=I=3='=I=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=I=I
Doonesbury 

Simon 
1>ffif< ~~1P, AWfULly t>eRRY I\SOU f rftl~ 'Btl T l HAY£ TitIS 
'BI6 '?ftPER WE. ).lO E:XTEJJ· 
'&ION J YoU KNOW. WOII'f ~(c.EPf iltE. TEN t:oLt.M-':> Foft -ntlt> 6\l'tiP-r.lOU.LDN' r FEEL' 'R\ut1f ft06Uf ll. 
60RIN M.ITit\.1. 011-KffiELVJ 
u~ 




•... "l'belosersarebapp.v.justpla_vin!(tbeirrbyme,WatchinK the wi11ners!(el Lucke sometime ...' 
C.IIMii <ll'l ~1!!1 He'\', L.I!T'<:. 
ur·~ l:if;f "e:r l!ClE.~~ i>oi'!'IS!ol-,e. 011 
""' '!w>M6 Till~ PAI'Eif.l "<>WM!ll~ 


Spike's World 
SAY, \HAT'S DIANE 
McCARTHY, THE MOST 
UAVTIFUt.. GIU ATTIHS 
UNI VHSITY ... AND 

0

SHE'S EATING LUiJC.H 
0

e,y-HfRS£LF.' 


The Daily Crossword 
Garry Trudeau 

The 2 E-W LOSefS 


ACROSS 27 Farm birds 1 Legislators 28 Deadly 7 Having more 29 Sin 
wisdom 31 Marine 12 Dregs mollusks 14 Egg dish 33 Simple one 16 Machine 35 Fail to 
worker develop 17 Grapefruit 36 Facial 18 Say features 19 Shaver 38 Org. 21 Former 39 Psycho-
serviceman therapist, 22 -Grande Coue 23 Alpine 40 Aid 
athlete 42 Jal ­24 Volcano 46 Attractive yield 47 Military 25 Go away groups: quickly abbr.
Tuesday's Solution 

~IT BY MYSnJ, MY 085£/f.VU. AND DAYDI(OM ... 
0 
0 

Campus 
•I:
I5 p.m. -Lec:;.ture, "Looking Beyond Economics," Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado, Library Auditorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Capturing Small Particles with Fibers," Prof. Dudley A. Saville, Princeton Uni­versity, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Soccer, Notre Dame vs. University of.Akron, Alumni Field 

•4:30 
p.m. -Guest Speaker, "Development of Basins on Passive Continetal Margins." Dr. Georsc 

T. 
Moore, I 0 I Earth Science Bldg. 

•6: 
I 5 p.m. -Corvilla House Visitation, Meet at Library Circle 

•6:30 
p.m. -Slide Show, "Saint Mary's Founder's Day Slide Show," Little Theatre 

•7. 
p.m. -Meeting of the Shakespeare Club, Flanner Hall Penthouse 

•7 
p.m. -Assertion Training Workshop, Psy­chological Services Center, Sponsored by Counsel­ing and Psychological Services Center, Call 2.39·7336 to Register 

•7, 
9:I5, and 11:30 p.m. -Fllm, "Missing," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by CILA, SI.OO 

•7:30 
p.m. -Sailing and Seamanship Course, Sponsored by U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, 35 I Madeleva Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, Sin and Mystery oflniquity, Fr. Malloy C.S.C., II 5 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Thomas More Society, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Pax Christi General Meeting, Presbytery Basement 

•7:30, 
and 10 p.m. -Fllm, "Arthur," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, S I .00 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Hypothetical Necessity," Prof. John Cooper, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•8: 
I 5 p.m. -Lecture, "Politics and the Church: Liberation Theology," Fr. Edward Malloy C.S.C., Sponsored by Thomas More Society, I 15 O'Shaughnessy 


T.V. Tonight.~ 




6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 
10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
16 M*A*S"H 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 World Series Game II 
22 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers 
28 Tales ofthe Gold Monkey 
34 My Brilliant Career 
22 Alice 
28 The Fall Guy 
22 Filthy Rich 
22 Tucker's Witch 
34 Inside Story 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
16  Tonight Show  
22  Archie  Bunker's  Place/CBS  Late  
Movie  

28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Love Boat 
16 Late Night with David Letterman 
-
48 Peculiar 
49 Neighbor of Fla. 50 San Diego 
player 51 Existing 53 Being the 
second of two 55 Religious recluses 
57 Straight man 58 Multiple 
dwelling 59 Irregularly notched 
60 Abandon 
DOWN 
1 Relating to toxicity 2 "-Night· lngale" 
3 Italian 
coins 4 A Bradley 5 Snare 6 Underwater 
breathing device 7 Profound 
sleep 8 Cupid 9 Jewel 
10 Passenger car, of a sort 11 Applicable 12 Spoils 13 Trailing 

skirt 15 Sums 20 Gusto 23 Polish 24 Motherof 
Apollo 26 Placeof 
worship 28 Lies 30 Muskrat's 
relative 32 Fileswith cutting points 
33 Pretend 34 Copycat 36 Stickers 37 Takeoff 38 Changed 41 Blrdwith 
long plumes 43 Waste time 44 Arrival 45 That is: 
Lat. 47 Peepshow 50 Wooden 
pins 51 Iowa col· lege town 52 Citrus 
fruit 54 Also 56 Chemical 
suffix 


r----------=-------------------;.--1 
1&,iorBar Wednesday s 
1 

~~v BUD-NITE at Seniot Bat I 

tree give-aWQys &rQHies along with our reguiQr speciQI 

1 
.. i 
l 1 
--~--------~
-

Wednesday, October 13, 1982-page 12 
Paul Molitor (left) set a World Series record took Game One of the 1982 World Series, 10-0. withfive hits last night, as theMilwaukeeBrewers (APPhoto) 
Brewers over Cardinals 
Molitor bombs the Cards 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Paul Molitor He did not walk a batter umil two error on a ground ball by Ben 
rapped a record five hits and Mike were out in the sixth inning. Oglivie made both runs unearned. 
Caldwell pitched a three-hitter as Not since 1946 in the World The Brewers made it 3-0 in the 

-
the powerful Milwaukee Brewers Series between St. Louis and Boston fourth with Molitor driving in the used singles to build a 17-hit attack had any player got as many as four run on a brokep-bat single. Sim­and beat the St. Louis Cardinals I0-0 hits in a game and that was done by mons' homer in the fifth boosted the in the first game of the World Series four players. Robin Yount also had lead to 4-0. 
last night. four hits last night for the B1=ewers. The Brewers finally ended 
The Brewers rapped playoff hero Ted Simmons, the catcher traded Forsch's evening with two more Bob Forsch for all their runs and I 0 to the Brewers from the Cardinals runs in the sixth. Forsch had pitched hits, to find themselves in an ex­before last season, added a fifth­a three-hit shutout in the opener of tremely unfamiliar position -in the inning home run. St. Louis' three-game sweep over At­lead for once. They finished with 13 In this clash of two beer towns, of lanta in the National League Cham­singles. two Midwestern cities with little or pionship Series, but on this night he 
The Cardinals went down meekly, no recent World Series experience, could do nothing right. as Caldwell, a junkball left-hander, the Brewers set aside their normal In contrast, Caldwell had been got 10 of his first 1 5 outs on ground tendency toward power and settled bombed in his two previous outings. 
balls. He gave up a second-inning for a game ofsingles -going for one He gave up seven runs on 13 hits in a double to St. Louis catcher Darrell run at a time -to beat the Cardinals. 7-1 loss to Baltimore in tht> final days Porter and eighth-inning singles to They scored twice in the first in­of the season, then lasted only three Porter and Ken Oberkfell. ning off Forsch, betrayed by the nor· innings in Game 1 of the American 
Caldwell's control, a problem in mally excellent glove of first See SERIES, page 10his last two outings, was impeccable. baseman Keith Hernandez, whose

, 
UndefeatedIrish 

J Faust wary of Wildcats 
SOUTH BEND (AP)-Though his when we get inside the 30-yard line "I considered field goal kicking and we've been doing that." one ofour weaker points," admitted
ninth-ranked Notre Dame football One reason the undefeated Irish Faust. "Mike started kicking well in
team has scored only one touch­have been able to do that is because spring drills but he wa<> doing poorly
down in the last two games, Coach of the field goal kicking of Mike near the end ofspring and we felt we
Gerrv Faust isn't complaining.''I'd like to go into the end zone Johnston. The senior has kicked nine might have to go with a freshman. every time." Faust told the Chicago field goals in as many attempts this But he worked hard on his kicking Football Writers in his weekly season and provided the winning during the summer and he came telephone press conference. "But margin in three ofNotre Dame's four back." our goal is to get points on the board triumphs. Faust also saw a comeback in the fourth quarter of the Miami game, which might be another reason he is not concerned about Notre Dame's
N.D. joins conference 
inability to get the ball into the end zone. After what could have been a win­
for jive minor sports 
ning touchdown drive was blunted when Blair Kiel threw an imercep­SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP)-Notre tion, Notre Dame held and managedDame sports officials confirmed yes­
to come hack on the passing of Kiel terday that the Fighting Irish have 
and the running of Phil Carter to set joined the · Midwest Cities Con­
up Johnston's winning 32-yard field ference in five sports. 
goal.Notre Dame's teams in baseball, 
"Kiel made a bad decision on that cross country, indoor track, tennis 
pass and should have thrown it out and golf will play in the MCC, 
ofbounds. But he had enough desire according to Notre Dame athletic 
and confidence to bring the hall director Gene Corrigan. 
down the field and completed five of Other schools in the St. Louis­
six passes in the drive," marveled based conference are: Butler, 
Faust. "And Phil Carter in the fourth 
Evansville, St. Louis, Oral Roberts, quarter was the best Phil Carter I've Oklahoma City, Loyola of Chicago, 

-. 
seen, whethn he was gaining 2 Xavier of Cincinnati and the Univer­
yards or 20 yards.
sity of Detroit. See f'AUST, page 10 

I I 


Hello, MUSCO? It's N.D. again . 
.;: :: 
Rich 0' CoiUlor 
Sports Writer 
TURN UP THE POWER -AGAIN ? -That's right sports fans, there is a possibility that ABC will move the Pittsburgh game to Saturday night using the MUSCO lighting system. In addition, the Penn State game could be moved to a later time slot using the portable lights so that CBS can cover the game. Nothing is definite. Decisions will be made on the Monday ofgame week. 
MOVING IN ON THE MALE-MAN-MikeJohnston, with his nine­of-nine field goal performance this year, now holds the record for consecutive field goals in a season. The record was eight, held by Chuck Male. Should Johnston connect on his next attempt, he will tie Male's record of 10 straight field goals in a career. 
Johnston is listed as fourth on the NCAA charts in field goals with 
2.25 per game. This gives him the team lead in scoring with 34 points, and the 14th spot on the NCAA charts in that category. 
STOPPING THE RUN -The Irish remain the No_ 1 team in the country against the run, allowing a mere 34. S yards per game. Notre Dame has the third best overall defense, and the 13th best scoring defense. 
In four games so far, Irish opponents have made just 11 first downs rushing, while making 53 total first downs. The defense has kept opponents from making a first down on 35 oftheir 53 possessions­including 12 of 18 against Michigan State and 10 of 15 versus Miami. 
BOTTLE THEM UP -Notre Dame opponents have begun 28 of their 57 possessions inside the 20-yard line. 43 of the 57 began inside the 30-yard line -only four possessions have begun in Irish territory, three against Michigan State. 
Arizona quarterback Tom Tunnicliffe hopes that changes Satur­day. Two years ago against the Irish, Tunnicliffe started his first game ever. He completed 1 5 of 26 pa~ses for 95 yards, and has come on to become No. 2 on the Wildcats' all-time passing yardage list. 
So far this season, Tunnicliffe has thrown for 795 yards and five touchdowns -completing 64 of his 114 passes. He get more help from his backfield this week, as Vance Johnson and Brian Holland return to the Wildcat lineup. Johnson led the team in rushing before being forced to sit out with a shoulder injury, and Holland becomes academically eligible for the first time this year, after two years as the Wildcats' second-leading rusher. 
OFFENSIVE DRIVE -The Notre Dame offense does move the ball (sometimes), but they have been able to put the ball in the endzone only once in their last two games. The Irish hold an advantage over their opponents in plays run, time ofpossession, and first downs, hut when it comes to finishing the job . .. well, thank you Mikejohnston. 
So far this season, Notre Dame has scored only seven touchdowns, while its opponents have scored six. The Irish have scored all of theirs on the ground. For an offense that has supposedly been opened up, the fact that the longest pass play ha<> been only 25 yards, and that Notre Dame has not completed a pass for a touchdown is surprising. 
SEND THEM BACK -Although nowhere near a record pace for penalties, the Irish have been flagged for a few too many. In four games so far Notre Dame ha~ been charged with 27 penalties totaling 258 yards. Final statistics from last sea'ion show that the Irish were penalized 59 times for 459 yards. This is happening despite the fact that three of Notre Dame's games have been played at home. With five ofthe last seven games to be played on the road, penalties could become a major concern ofthe coaching staff. 
THE SERIES -Notre Dame and Arizona have met just twice, with the Irish emerging triumphant each time. The last time was two years ago in Tucson. Blair Kiel ran 80 yards on a fake punt, with Notre Dame leading 7-3. The Irish went on to win 20-3. The only game played in Notre Dame Stadium between these two teams was 
played in 1941. Notre Dame won 38-7. Arizona has not been shut out in 116 games, tied for third on the NCAA chart. USC ( 1 71) and UCLA ( 126) top that list. 
SOCCER HOPES -Notre Dame's chances of receiving an NCAA bid in soccer depend on excellent play this week. The Irish play host to eighth-ranked Akron today at 3:30p.m. on Alumni Field. DePaul comes to town Friday night for an 8 o'clock contest on Cartier Field, and Sunday Notre Dame will travel to Marquette. Now riding a four game unbeaten streak, the Irish hope that their current 7-3-2 record combined with their showings this week will put them in the playoffs for the first time ever. 
RllNAROlJND -In past years, the annual Alumni baseball game has returned many big, and not so big, names from the baseball world to campus for an exhibition game against tht· current squad. No one's sure who's coming this year yet, but the game is .'iCheduled for Saturday morning at 9 onJake Kline Field. 





