.Lit Festival -page 8 
' ' 

VOl. XVI, NO. I 00 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1982 
Infantformula 
INFACT, Nestle debate issues 
ByVIC SCIULLI of Nestle were Dr. Thad M. jackson, The promotion of infant formula, .Vt•u•s Staff Vice-prt•sident for Nutrition Van Esterik said, s~ould be limited. Research and Development at These limitations should include 
"Infant t(>rmula should not be Nestle Coordination Center, and his areas where purchase ofthi: formula used where the: techniques required wift", Thelma, a nutritionist · for would require too much ofa family's to ust· it at" not present in the general Nt:stle income, areas where the rate of i_n· populatiOn," said Cornell llniversity In her speech on objections to fant mortality is high, and areas research associate Dr. Pt·nny Van Es· marketing practices of infant for· where a special value is placed on terik in a debate in the Library mula, Van Est erik said that Nestle has breast-feeding. Auditorium last night. expanded their market through the In his answering speech, Jackson 
Van Est erik, along with Rick Hoye, media; this intense media promo· discussed a study done by the World represented the Infant Formula Ac· tion has caused many Third World Health Organization which alleged· tion Coalition in the debate with mothers to switch from breast ly showed no causal link between Nestle coporation. Speaking on bealf feeding to bottle feeding, she said. breast-feeding decisions and ag· 
gressive marketing procedures. There has been a massive move away from breast-feeding through·
Four-hour sniper siege 
out the world, according to Jackson, and there is no strong evidence which shows aggressing marketing to be the exclusive cause of this


results inthree dead 
trend. Van Esterik, in fact, admitted thatCHULA VISTA, Calif. (AP) -A Gerard, 23, a former resident of the 
conditions have improved since
quarrel over neighborhood dogs ap· trailer park who was returning to 
1978. These changes include a
parently provoked a four-hour pick up some belongings after 
curtailing of aggressive marketing
sniper siege at a trailer park that moving out five days ago, 
procedures in the Third World.
ended with three people dead and a Moorehead said. 
Third World mothers, however, are
police officer seriously wounded, A witness said Escutia was killed 
evaluating their breast milk dif·
police say. in the first volley of gunfire as he 
ferently than they have in the past.
Police, firing a barrage of tear gas, walked to his car from his mother's 
When asked how they feed their

stormed a mobile home Wednesday trailer with a dog in his arms. 
babies, many mothers apologetically

evening and found a 57-year-old "He (Escutia) opened the car 
reply "breast milk," adding that they

retiree lying in a back bedroom, uni· door, and boom!" said William Mel· 
have nothing better to use. This at·

njured but semi-conscious and vin, 56, who watched from an ad· clutching a cocked pistol, authori· jacent trailer, which immediately See INFACT, page 4 tics said. t:ame under fire. 
Alys E. McNair, described by a Melvin said McNair had quarreled ndghbor as "a loner who never gave with Mrs. Castro, complaining that 

Majorpressconference 

anyone any problems," was rushed her dogs were noisy. to a hospital Wednesday night and 
Mrs. Castro, who lived next door listed in poor condition, officials to McNair, was killed as she ran from 
Reagan willnotconz,nz,it troops
said. He was thougt:lt to be suffering 
her trailer home to investigate the from a heart condition. 
shooting, said Melvin, who was 
WASHINGTON(AP)-President "I just don't believe that you discuss saying that if opponents "come up
At the same hospital lay an officer 
baby-sitting at the time. "He (thewho was strut:k in the neck by a bul· Reagan said yesterday that his ad· those options on what you may or with some specific suggestions, sug·gunman) just kept shooting and ministration has "no plans to send may not do." gest something, we'll take a look atlet in the shooting spree, which also shooting." 
American combat troops into ac· To tip his hand, Reagan said, it."
left another resident injured at the Ms. Gerard was killed after driving tion" in El Salvador or anywhere would reduce American leverage. But he then added that "we t:an·Mountain View Trailer Lodge. 
into the area, Drown said. 
else. He wouldn't discuss U.S. op· Asked whether there are any cir· not back away on national defense"
"I heard a couple of shots," said 

Although Melvin said McNair had Janet Andrews, 25, who suffered arm tions for increased military support cumstances under whit:h he might without sending the wrong messagequarreled with Mrs. Castro, he ofthe Salvadoran government. use U.S. troops, Reagan said: to both allies and potential adver­wounds from shattered glass. "I described McNair as "a very quiet The Central American nation of El "Well, maybe if they dropped a saries and he called his tax cut policylooked out the window and saw two nice guy ...a loner who never gave'
people lying on the ground, and Salvador is under attat:k by leftist bomb on the White House I might "the strongest thing we have" 
anyone any problems." 
guerrillas and is being assisted by get mad." toward restoring productivity.

then shots hit the car and one hit the Drown said "dozens if not 100 American military aid and advisers. In discussing his controversial The president opened his eighth
window and hit my arm. I'm not hurt shots were fired, all by the suspect." Asked what further steps he might budget proposal, Reagan left open news conference by announcingreal bad." 

Sheriffs Deputy Robert Brown, take, Reagan told a news conference: the possibility of compromise, that he will name a panel of private
McNair was t:aptured after author· 34, was shot in the throat. He was citizens to search out waste and inef·
ities fired about 20 tear gas canisters listed in stable condition at Bay fidency in the government with aninto his trailer. said San Diego General after undergoing surgery. eye to controlling t:osts.

County sheriffs spokesman Capt. Deputy Linda Harmuth was "This will be the largest effort of



Saint Mary 'selects 
Jack Drown. There were no negotia· credited with saving Brown's life by its kind ever mounted to save taxtions. 
dragging him to safety after he was dollars," Reagan said. He said theThe extent ofthe suspect's arsenal hit by a .22-caliber bullet at the base members ofthe volunteer panel willwas not immediately known, but 

new student officers
of the throat, Duffy said. She had be named within a few days. 
Sheriff John Duffy said it was answered the initial call with Brown,

believed the man had a shotgun, a "I expect them to roll up their
By MARY BETH PORTER Vice President, Mary Beth Feistcl, ritk and a pistol. 
Duffy said. sleeves and search out waste and in·
News Staff Secretary, and Maura Kahn,
Just before 5 p.m., officers laid efficiency ..." he said. "We mean
"It looks like it was a neighbor· 

Treasurer. The class of '84 also has hood quarrel that's been brewing down a smoke screen, then ad· business and we intend to get
Yesterday, Saint Mary's College its new officers. Denise Drake will
vant:ed behind it with an armored results."
about six months" said sheriffs held its annual student government be President, with Beth Aisthorpe

van to remove one woman's body As he has before, Reagan said hisspokesman Bert Moorehead. The elections. Kathleen Murphy, who residing as· Vke President. Also in
from a driveway at the Mountain economic policies will producesquabble apparently centered on ran unopposed, will take over as the office for next year's Juniors will be
View Mobile Lodge. recovery from the current reces·dogs owned by one of the victims. 
new Student Body President for the Kathleen Jennings as Secretary and sion, but he added, "I'm just notA witness also told police that Then, officers began lobbing tear 1982·1983 school year. Assisting Mollie Mulligan as Treasurer. 
going to be pinned down on a date"there had been past troubles be· gas into a trailer they believed the her will be Elaine Hocter who will The class of 1985, however, does as to when recovery will come.

tween neighbors about noisy dogs. gunman was using. The barrage con· be the new Vice President ofStudent not have its officers yet. The Fresh· Reagan also said that high interestAn offker who asked to remain tinued for at least 45 minutes before Affairs, and Beth Tighe, the new Vice man class will have a runoff for its 

anonymous said the man was semi· the shooting stopped and the man rates represent "the greatest single
President of Academic Affairs. class officers on Monday. This runoff 
conscious on a bed in a rear was taken into custody. threat today to a healthy, lasting
At:cording to Mary Elizabeth Ott, the will be between the tickets of Kara recovery" from the recession. Major
bedroom. holding a cocked .38· Just two blocks from the trailer election went very well and the Hageman, Marsha Bonich, Helen t:aliber pistol, and did not resist. He park is Lauderbach Elementary was teriffic. In fact, banks increased the prime rate Wed·
voter turnout Lucaitis, and Mary Ann Potter on the was taken to Bay General Com­School, which has some 600 stu· they had 58 percent of the student one ticket as candidates for Presi· nesday from 16 to 17 percent. 
The president said that reflected

munity llospital where spokesman dt.·nts. Some ofthe younger students, body voting, "a 16 percent increase dent, Vice President, Secretary, and concern that the Federal Reserve
Paul Omundson said he was in "poor from kindergarten to third grade, over last year," reported Miss Ott. Treasurer, respectively, and Marie Board might ease monetary policy,condition with no evidence of had been let out of school right Although Murphy's ticket was un­Vanfeldt, Kathy Boyle, Mary Easter· and that the administration might
serious injuries." before the shooting began, said prin· opposed, the ballot options were day, and Kelly Mullaney on the Drown said McNair had a history cipal Cliff Johnson, "so we had to tolerate higher deficits. Reagan's
"yes," "no" or "abstain," and the opposing ticket. 
own budget projects record defidts,

of heart problems. quickly pick them up on their way ticket won 90 percent of the vote. The Student Body President and The dead were identified as Cesar home." 
with the figure this year estimated atElections for Saint Mary's class of· Vice Presidents along with the class S98.6 billion. 

Escutia, no age available, of National The rest of the children were held fleers were also held yesterday. New officers will ofikially take office on But he said the Federal Reserve

City; his morfler, Loria Castro, 63, a at the school until their parents officers for the class of 1983 are Beth April I, 1982, for the upcoming trailer park resident; and Monique could come for them, Johnson said. Bunker, President, Carol Dziminski, school year. See REAGAN ,page 4 



News Brie/§ 
ByThe Observer and The Associated Press 
Singer Dolly Parton has cancelled all performances for the next four to six weeks, including performances at the Holiday Star Theater at Merrillville, Ind., because ofemergency gynecologi­cal surgery, a spokeswoman for the entainer announced yesterday. "Her personal physician insisted on complete rest away from work and strenuous activity for the next four to six weeks," said Beverly Magid ofSolters, Roskin and Friedman, a Los Angeles public relations firm. Miss Parton was scheduled for three performances March 5-6 at the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo. She was forced to cancel performances at last year's show because ofproblems with her vocal chords. The public relations agency also said Miss Parton would not appear at the Front Row Theater in Cleveland nex.t month. "The agency didn't tell us any details about the operation, only that it was an emergency that suddenly arose," said Johnnie Hendon, a spokes­woman for show. -AP_ 
Professor Seguin, director of NO's MBA management program, was seriously injured in an auto accident near Elkhart. He was reportedly unconscious for over an hour, and suffered a severe concussion. He underwent surgery twice, and has a heart condition, which complicates matters. --: The Observer 
A studentpilotmissing since Sunday on a cross-country training flight has been found near his downed plane in Baja Califor­nia, the Coast Guard said. The pilot, Mark Fletcher, 25, took off.near Phoenix, Ariz. on a flight to Lake Havasu City, Calif., then back to Phoenix, but apparently got lost and ran out ofgas, the Coast Guard said. The Coast Guard said Fletcher.apparently was not badly hurt in a forced landing, but the impact damaged the plane's.landing gear. The single-engine Piper Tomohawk was found in Baja on Wednj::S· day about 200 miles south ofSan Diego by a civilian search craft, and the Coast Guard picked him up in a helicopter. Fletcher was listed in stable conclirion at rhr-IT s N~val Air Station at El Centro, Calif -AP 
A federal judge in Pensacola Fla., has ruled tht Okaloosa County School Board does not have to readmit a 15-year­old junior high school student accused of stabbing a school bus driver. U.S. District Judge Winston Arnow ruled Wednesday that Vernell Williams' rights were violated because she was suspended from MiegsJUnior High School without a hearing, but said a return to classes would be "disruptive." The ruling has no effect on the outcome of criminal proceedings against Miss Williams, an expul­sion hearing next week or her 530,000 civil suit against the board and two school administrators. Miss Williams, ofFort Walton Beach, was arrested last month on charges of injuring driver Ann Knox by stabbing her with a broken bottle when the driver stopped to call for help in sub.P.uing unruly students._ 
Nearly 4,000 singing and chanting voting rights marchers jammed the steps of the Alabama state capito.l in Montgomery yesterday, ending a 13-day re-enactment of a historic 1965 protest with a pledge to find "a new heart in Dixie." Thousands folded into step with the few dozen who had made the full I 50-mile journey as they approached the white-domed capitol. where black leaders vowed to save the Voting Rights Act of 1965, a major victory ofthe civil rights struggle I 7 years ago. When the parade reached the statehouse steps, march leader Joseph Lowery declared a "massive pilgrimage" would be organized to Washington. He said details would be revealed later. Lowery, 57-year-old president of the Atlanta-based Southern Christian Leadership Conference, walked the final few miles in blue jeans and a denim 'jacket. Lowery was joined by the Rev. Martin Luther King Sr., father ofthe slain leader of the 1965 march, and the younger King's son, Dexter. The threat of mass arrests hung over the demonstrators barely an hour before the last day's walk began as they vowed to ignore the route specified in 
•their parade permit. After lengthy negotiations, a compromise was reached between black leaders and Police Chief Charles Swindall and the trek as completed without incident. Some I00 police, inc;h!jiing_unifo)".II1ed blacks a~lYell as whites, provided escort. -AP 
Students taking entrance, examinations for private high schools in Tokyo and its neighboring cities were ordered yes­terday to remove wrist watches equipped with calculators and dic­tionaries, officials of Kokugakuin High School said. A new dictionary-equipped watch on the Japanese market has the capacity of translating 1,600 words from Japanese into English, or from English into Japanese. But officials said none of 3,279 students, who apparently anticipated the ban, was known to have worn special watches w the tests. -AP 
Ahuman rights conference in Manila charged yesterday that the United States has "a direct hand" in alleged human rights abuses in the Philippines because of its continued economic and military support to the Manila government. The conference, or­ganized by six Filipino religious and lawyers' groups, said" tan alarm­ing pattern of military abuses and atrocities" has occurred in the country despite th~ lifting ofeight years of martial law last year. The conference issued its denunciations of President Ferdinand E. Marcos and the United States in a declaration adopted at the end ofa two-day l}leeting here._-AP 
Today mostly cloudy. Highs in the mid to upper 30s. Fair and cold tonight. Lows in the low 20s. tomorrow partly sunny and mild. Highs around 40. -AP 
Friday, February 19, 1982-page 2 


AP Photo File 



ties said a man responsible was later taken to a hospital in '}Joor condition." (AP Photo) 

Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy OesignAsslstants ........................ Jim Keyes Tim Farrell Layout Staff.............................Crazy Horse Typesetters ................................... Sieve Burg Tuni Rutherford News Editor .................... Dave Rickabaugh Copy Editors ......................... )oe Musumeci Rich Adam Features Layout.................... Greg Swiercz Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typist ....................................... Laura Degnan NO Day Editor .................. Tom Mclennan SMC Day Editor ................... )oe Musumeci Ad Design ...........JohnPhotographer Beth Prezio Guest Appearances ....... Eds offuture and soon 10 be pas! Mom and Pop,Hoogaloid, Shelving Unit, Rodmarron An English/Theater major?  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s publiShed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vaca!lon penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($ t 5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556  


Duel ofAngels 
by Jean Giraudoux 


Presented by ND/SMC Theatre Second Scene 
Lobby of 0 'Laughlin Feb. 19th & 20th -at -Spm 

Limited Admission Seating $1.00 
Friday, February 19, 1982 -page 3
The Observer 
Martial law-cracks dow-n on clergy 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) 
Leftist guerrillas destroyed 

several transmission towers yester­
day morning nt·ar Santa Ana, ~0 
miles northwest of San Salvador, 
leaving parts of the nation's second­
largest city without electricity. 
They also claimed their forces 
killed or wounded ~72 government 
soldiers in dashes last month and 
rdtt·rated that tht· "the hour of na­
tional insurrection approaches." 
Meanwhile, Lt. Gen. Wallace H. Nutting, head of the Panama-based Southern Command and the senior 
U.S. army commander in Latin America, planned to speak with reporters ti>r the first time since arriving here to assess the military situation. 
The prt:ss session was scheduled at llopango Airport, ncar the capital, whert· guerrillas destroyed more than half the Salvadoran air force in a daring raid jan. 27. 
In Washington, President Reagan told a news conference earlier in the day that he has "no plans to send American combat troops into ac­tion" in El Salvador or anywhere else. But he said it would not serve any purpose to discuss other options undt·r consideration to assist the junta. 
The guerrillas' Radio Venceremos daimed the raid destroyed 20 planes and six helicopters, or 70 per­cent of the Salvadoran air force. The Pentagon has said the count was six helicopters -already replaced 


Nobel Prize 
•


wtnneropens festival 
By FRANCES NOLAN 
News Staff 
and eight airplanes. 
Radio Venceremos claimed yes· terday that last month's casualties took place in 142 clashes in 19 loca­tions around the country. The broadcast did not break down its figure into killed and wounded. 
The casualty count appeared to be much higher than the military has claimed in its daily announcements, but official spokesmen in the military press office were not available immediatelyfor comment. 
Claims on casualty figures from the opposing sides in this Central American nation regularly differ widely and cannot be confirmed in­dependently. 
"The hour of national insurrec­tion is near," Radio Venceremos said, echoing other comments made since Jan. I. It urged people: to be "ready with food supplies and medicines." 
Leftist guerrillas are fighting to oust the U.S.-supported civilian­military junta that took power in an October 1979 coup. Church and human rights groups estimate 32,000 people have been killed in the 27 months of political violence since then. 

church said, "Such criticism is likely 
to misfire. Why criticize the church 
now, after being silent for months 
since it began working in behalf of 
internees." 
The observer, who requested anonymity, said of I,800 interned union activists released from camps, I, I 00 were set free at the behest of the church. The regime says some 4,000 people are still detained. 
The church counts some 80 to 90 percent of Poland's 36 million citizens as members, and the primate, Archbishop Jozef Glemp, has spoken out in the past against in­ternment and other aspects of mar­tiallaw since it was imposed Dec. 13 and Solidarity leader Lech Walesa detained. 
Glemp has maintained public silence since returning from Vatican talks last week with Polish-born Pope John Paul II, but church sources said the primate will deliver a sermon Feb. 26 and it is expected to outline the church's policy toward martial law. 
In West Germany, the respected newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine quoted "reliable sources in Warsaw" as saying the Polish regime plans a major attack on the clergy in two or three weeks, with nationwide ar­rests of priests and broadcasts of forged tapes. 
The paper said the Polish secret police have been secretly tape­recording seen-ions by parish priests, and with the help of East German agents hope to falsify the recordings into statements of loyalty to the regime that would be broadcast "with the goal of discrediting the church among the people." 
The government announced Wednesday that 3,'500 Poles were detained for martial law infractions during a two-day sweep called "Operation Calm." Yesterday, Inte­rior Ministry officials said all but about 250 of them had been released after brief checks of their documents. 

'The Space Shuttle is framed through tree branches as it sits on top ofa giant crawler which moved itfrom the Vehicle Assembly building early Tuesday morning to the launch pad at site 39-A where it will lift off! March 22 for a seven day mission (AP 
Photo) 


~ SUNDAY MASSES 
~~~ATSACREDHEARTCHURCH 
Masses are for Sunday, Feb. 21, 1982 
S: 15 PM Saturday  Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C.  
9:00AM Sunday  Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C.  
10:30 AM Sunday  Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C.  
12:15 PM Sunday  Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C.  
7:15PM Vespers  Rev. Richard Conyers, c.s.c.  



Black Cultural Arts Festival 1982 presents 
~·························'
• Stuclt?llt I ctlt?llt Sli()W • 
I • • 


: ••()~ Sl4()1~~: I 

: ~()trt? UClrnt?/S~f st tJcJt=>rlt ~ l)f;'lf()rrn: 

Saturday 20 February 7 pm Library Auditorium 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Com· munist Poland's martial law regime stepped up its attack on the Roman Catholic clergy yesterday, and a West German newspaper quoted reliable sourct•s in Warsaw as saying a nationwide roundup of priests is planned. 
In its second broadside against the church in two days, Radio Warsaw said that some "lower Catholic clergy" were rekindling "old sources of conflict" such as placing of religious symbols (crosses) in public places, state institutions and schools. 
The broadcast accused one priest in northern Poland of appealing to parents to oppose efforts to remove crosses from schools "even if they were fired on in the process." 
Another broadcast criticized the church for speaking out against in­ternment ofleaders ofthe independ· ent union Solidarity and said some priests sought to "criticize the policy ofthe authorities towards ex· tremists." 
One Western diplom~tk ohsc:rvc:r who maintains close ties with the 




Leftist guerrillas destroy towers, city powerless 
A workshop by Nobel Prize win­ncr Czeslaw Milosz opens the Soph­omore Literary Festival Sunday at 
I:30 p.m., followed at 7:30p.m. by a poetry. reading. A major expecta­tion for the Sophomo Literary Fes­tival is that the creative energy transmitted by the artists taking part will be instilled in the viewers according to Lori Tobias, a member of the Executive Committee of Public Relations for the festival. 
The festival concludes with a workshop by one of America's most renowned poets, Robert Creely, at 
I:30 p.m. and a reading at 7:30p.m. All workshops will take place in the Library Lounge and all readings in the Library Auditorium. 
Tobias remarked that a change from previous festivals is a more coherent theme; one of "the writer as a free creator and literature as a free art form." 
Stressing the fact that this has been a year-long project, Tobias commented that those who have worked on the festival arc proud of what they are trying to present. 


VOCA110N REI REAT 

to help you consider the priesthood in the Congregation of Hofy Cross 
[Q)~~ Friday, February 26 to Saturday, February 27 7:00p.m. 12:GO p.m. ~~Moreau Seminary 
tR1~by calling the Vocation OffiCe no·cost 239-6385 
~----------------------------~-----------------------------------------------~ ----------------­
;--­
Friday, February 19, 1982--page 4
The Observer 

'1:00 120 Boyes Healy Opportunities lor minority studentsin &noncial aid,applications to law school andin the field of Law in general. 
• Sponsoredby N.D. Pre Law Society •


c . .., 
Applicationsfor next year's 
~~®B rnarn•~~&rm.Rt:3 
may be picked up in the Student 
~~Activities Office in La Fortune on A Mon. Feb.ll Tues.Feb.23 Wed.Feb.24 


They must be returned by 5:00pm on Fri., Feb. 26 
I~-----Annourcing the River City Records ---------------------·1 
il\1ID-WINTER SALE!! 
(with ND/SMC i.d.only) NOW UNTIL MARCH 8! 
e TOP TEN SALE--$5.99 L.P. or CASETTE 
JGeils The Rolling Stones Stevie Nicks 
The Go-Go's Sammy Hagar The Police Foreigner Genesis Molly Hatchet Bob & Doug McKenzie (beauty, eh ?) 
e DISC WASHER KIT $9.99 (regular $15.99) 
e ALL POSTERS 1/2 PRICE ! 
e BLANKTAPES$1.000FF! 
e $1.00 OFF ANY OTHER L.P. or TAPE! 



RIVER CITYRECORDS 
ND-SMCgovernment


Heratyimproves relations 
Editor's note: The following is part of a weekly series of student government updates. 
As the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's liaison in Student Body President Don Murday's cabinet, Maureen Heraty works to improve the relationship betwc~en the two stu­dent governments. 
In coordinating the goals and ac­tivities of each organization, she provides the ND/SMC community with smooth-running government functions. 
Heraty's position requires that she attend both the Saint Mary's Board of Governance's meetings every Sun­day evening and those of the Notre Dame Student Senate on Mondays. 
At these meetings, she informs each government about the ac­tivities and goals of their counter­part across the road. In addition, Heraty tries to bring complemen­tary members of the two organiza­tions in contact with each other. That requires that Maureen also work with the ND Student Union. 
Recently, Student Union Director Bill Lawler and Saint Mary's Student 
continuedfrom page 1 

and the administration can and will work together to produce monetary and fiscal policies that should quell concerns in the money markets. "I will devote the resources of my presidency to keeping deficits down over the next several years," he said. 
But Reagan also said he would not compromise on his call for an 18 percent increase in defense spend­ing next year, a budget that has become a prime target for congres­sional critics -both Republican and Democratic -bent on curbing the deficit. 
"We cannot back away on nation­al defense without sending a message to our allies and adversaries Activities Planning BOard Chairman Mary Leavitt met to ctiscuss the so­cial events slated for this semester. It is hoped that these discussions will prevent some of the overlap which has occurred in years past. 
"One of Heraty's functions is to take suggestions and/or complaints from each governing body to the other,"says SBP Don Murday. In an effort to bring ND/SMC problems in­to focus, Heraty issued a survey to both the Saint Mary's Board of Governance and the Notre Dame Senate. 
. This survey outlined commonly perceived areas of difficulty and gave those polled the opportunity to present possible solutions. Heraty found the Saint Mary's responses to be particularly helpful. These expressed concern over the lack of interaction between ND and SMC women and favored any efforts designed to increase contact and communication. 
One suggestion which ND Ath­letic Commissioner Ed O'Malley is exploring presented the possibility of intramural competition. Saint Mary's women also expressed dis-
that would be very unwise," Reagan said. 
Reagan also: 

-Said, "I don't think there is any parallel" between the American in­volvement in Central America and Southeast Asia at the time the United States was becoming involved in the Vietnam war. 
-Expressed concern about the plight of the American farmer. "I don't know what sector of the economy is hurt worse than the American farmer," he said. He said he would use a grain embargo as a foreign policy tool "only as part ofan across the board embargo" because he "won't penalize one sector ofour industry -the farmers." 
-Said "we're not just an arms satisfaction with the problem of in­adequate social space. Generally, SMC women support Murday's push for a new student center. "In schools which are so closely tied," states one Saint Mary's sophomore,"what benefits one also benefits the other." 
One situation which disturbs people on both campuses is the lack of communication concerning each other's activities. The case appears to be that Saint Mary's students rare­ly hear what's going on at ND and vice-versa. Through Heraty's ef­forts, the ND Student Union has in­creased its poster distribution in SMC locations and allows the Saint Mary's Publicity Commissioner to use its services. SBVP Tara Kenney finds Heraty's position valuable "as a Public Relations job." "Maureen helps both governments keep in touch and on good terms with each other." 
According to SMC senior Helen Fuller, "Maureen helps present the other side of SMC to ND. It's about time people realized that finding a husband isn't the only reason girls go to Saint Mary's." 
• • .Reagan 
supplier" despite the controversy surrounding Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger's discussions with jordan about the possible pur­chase of additional American weapons, including missiles and F­16 fighters. He said Weinberger "was representing the United States" but "I don't believe (his mission) was correctly portrayed in some of 
the stories" about the talks. 

-Declined to say whether the United States will again save the Polish government from default on loans to U.S. banks. "Default as it stands right now would make Poland more dependent on the Soviet Union," he said, but "we haven't made a decision on that." 
50970 U.S. 31 North Open 10-10,7 days a week, · ND/SMC checks always I
3mtles North of cam pus cashedup to $20over . I 277-4242 amountofpurchase I 

---------------------------------~---------------1 
RIVER CITY RECORDS Presents: 

with special guests STENCIL FOREST 

&ZIBBYTEBO ThisTuesdayFeb.23 • 7:30pm Morris Civic Auditorium e South Bend 
Tickets: S 10.00 reserved. Good seats still available at RIVER CITY RECORDS, 50970 U.S. 31 North and at Morris Civic Box office beginning at 6:00pm night of show 
• • .INFACT 
N.D. Student Union presents 
The Bet urn of ••••. JOHN BAYLEY 
Ifyou missed him at the Jam, now is your chance to catch him LIVE! 

Nestle, Dr. jackson said, is working in close contact with a number ofna­tions in forming codes. 
In countries where there are no codes, Nestle has its own standard operating guidelines. These guidelines include the prohibition of direct contact with mothers and the distribution of free samples, un­less through written letter. 
When asked about Nestle's refusal to sit down and talk with members of INFACT about the formula issue, Dr. jackson cited INFACT'S "abrasive" attitude toward Nestle as the main reason: "We do not want to deal with immature people who equate infant formula with the Kool­Aid at jonestown." 
Mexico tripprovides alternative 

Need to escape from the land of frozen tundra? Want an alternative to the crowded, teen bars of (sometimes not so) sunny Florida? 
Then avoid them both and fly with us south of the border to sunny and exciting Mexico. An organizational meeting for all those interested will be held ori. Monday evening at 7 in Room 120, O'Sh~ughnessy. Details will be explained in full. 
Una buena vacaci(m? Si! Si! 
continuedfrom page 1 

titude, Van Esterik feels, is a direct result of the intense promotion practices of infant formula manufac­turers. 
.\1rs. jackson, who has worked in Bangladesh and Vietnam, spoke about poor conditions in many Third World countries. Many mot­hers begin having children at as ear­ly an age as 13 in these countries, and the job of breast-feeding drains them ofstrength and nutrients. This results in dcreased quality of breast milk after two months. 
The jacksons made it clear that they agree breast milk is the best form of nourishment for infants, but that often it is not sufficient to provide essential nutrients. In such situations, the use of infant formula as a supplement can be beneficial. 
Nestle, the jacksons said, fought hard for changes in the international code governing relevant marketing and promotional techniques, but maintained throughout that they would support the final code. 
---~----------------~----,-------~----­
Friday, February 19, 1982 -page 5 






_junior Parents Weekend 
JPWchairmen discuss 
committee preparation 

Editor's note: junior Parent's weekend coordinators Bill Hennes­sry and Greg Kane discussed stu­dent participation and committee preparation for the event and its ef­fect on South Bend businesses with 
Observer  staff  reporter  Bob  
Marovich.  
Q:  How  will  junior  Parents  

weekend affect South Bend Busi­ness? 
A: (Kane) There:: arc a number of effects on local businesses. First of all, over I 50t) parents will be com­ing for the Junior Parents' weckc::nd, and they will he using area motc::l ac­comodations. There will be a sig· nificant amount of business for basically a dozen hotels in the:: area. ( llc::nnc::ssey) We:: will have bctwc::en .25 to 150 rooms available in dif­ferent hotc::ls in the South Bend area, so some of them will sc::e quite:: a large increase in accomodations ly meetings and individual meetings among the:: various people working on the committc::e. (Hennessey) We have at least twdvc:: committees. 
Q: What percentage of juniors participate? 
A: (Kane) Over sixty pc::rcent of the:: Juniors arc participating in this year's weekc::nd. There arc:: over fifty juniors involvc::d in planning, ran­ging from major responsibility in planning the President's dinner and the Junior Parc::nts weekend mass, to hall parties in each of the dor­mitoric::s. (Hennessey) Faculty will be involved, and we will have guest speakers at various events. Faculty will be very involvc::d in their workshops. This gives the parents and students the opportunity to mingle with the professors and get to know them on a personal basis. Also, we have a committee ofsopho­mores who will be working dosely with c::ach event to make sure:: that the outcome of the c::vc::nt runs smoothly. 

These members ofthejunior Parents Weekend  progam  U'hich  u•i/1  commence  tbls  evenmg.  
committee enjoy a light momentas they continue  (Photo by Beth Prezio)  
to  arrange  the final  details  of the extensive  


Hennessey/Kane 
than is normal for this time of the year. (Kane) Besides the hotds, the number of people altcnding the wc::ekend will also bring a significant amount of husinc::ss to area res­taurants and shopping malls. 
Q: What is the goal ofthis year's ewnt? 
A: (Kane) Basically, the goal of Junior Parents' weekc::nd is to unite parents and students on campus for a weekend for the purpose of tkmonstrating to the parc::nts the:: so­cial, spiritual, and academic life:: at Notre Dame, which we fed charac­tl'fizes the:: Notre Dame t·ducation. We would like the parents to get a taste for what we feel Notre Dame:: is all about, and we plan the events of the wt-ekt·nd accordingly. We:: have a mass which will give them insight in­to what it is like to experience the spiritual life: at Notre Dame. There an· also a number of academic workshops in which parents can get a first-hand expaienn· as to the nature of the <:urriculum, profes­sional and joh opportunitic:s as­sociated with the various colleges, and a chance to mct·t the professors who tea<:h us everyday. In addition, there are a numher of social events, induding a cocktail dance and parties in each of the dorms. From these events, we hope the parc::nts, for a weekc::nd, will get a feeling for what it is like to be at Notre Dame for a wc::ekc::nd. We would like to get them to meet some:: of the other parents, also. 
Q: Who finances the event? 
A: (Kane) All the events arc financed through ticket sales which we handle:: through a mailing service:: which wc::nt out around Thanksgiv· ing break. All the money that is taken in from ticket salc::s for the three events -the cocktail dance::, Presi­dent's dinner, and the breakfast -is used to finance the entire wc::ekcnd; wt· do not get any funds from the:: pt·opll' in tht· administration. We budget on our own. We have a modt·rator, Fr. :vtario Pedi, who is basically our link with the ad­ministration. 
Q: When did the planning begin? 
A: (Kane) The committec::s began working in early October. Our major planning in the early months was to gc::t out the first mailing to the parents. At that time, we did initial budgeting and planning of the:: events, trying to get a feeling for what exactly the weekend was going to be compo!!'c!-d of. The planning has continued since then through wc::ek· 
Weekend offers parents view of NOlife 
A condensed itinerary• for the U./eekend is listed be loU', folloU'ed by a description ofthese events and additional information such as pclrking and specific locations and times for the collegiate workshops. 
Cocktail Dance( Friday, 9 p. m.-1 :30a. m., Stepan) 
The first activity ofjunior Parents' Weekend is the Cocktail Dance:: in Stepan Center. Musk will be provided by the live band of Dennis Bamber, which, along with hors d'ocvrcs and a cash bar, accents a ''surprise theme" and adds up to aguarantec::d good time::. We:: hope to sec you there. Extra tickets will be available at the door. CoUegiate Workshops 
The workshops enable the parents to better undc::rstand the academic life at Notre::. Dame, and to experience some of the career and further academic opportunitic::s which are available to the stu­dent in his/her particular major. After the formal presentations, cof­fee and donuts will he served while the parents and students have a chance to informally discuss with faculty members. 
• 
Arts and Letters 9::30·10:30a.m.: Washington Hall I0:30-12 p.m.: Lafortune Ballroom( Informal Discussions) 

•Business 
Administration 9:30a.m. Accounting -127 Nieuwland Finance-122 Hayc::s-Healy Management -121 Hayes-Healc::y Marketing -124 Hayes-Healey 


•Engineering 10 a.m.-11 a.m.: Slide show and Dean's talk in Engineering Auditorium II a.m.-1.2 p.m.: Individual disciplines' informal gathc::rings 
Location ofInformal Gathc::rings 
Al'fospa(·e -Fluids Lab, B-19 Fitzgerald 
Architecture -Architc::cture Aud., Architecture Bid. 
Chemical -Department Oftkc, Fitzgerald 
Civil-Department Oftkc, Fitzgerald 
Electrical -2nd Floor Hallway and Lobby, Fitzgerald 
Mechanical -Industrial Lab, 3rd Floor, Fitzgc::rald 
:vtetallurgical -Departmc::nt Office, Fitgerald 
•Science Major: Time: Location: Chemistry II a.m. 401 Nic::uwland Physic II a.m. 40 I Nieuwland Preprofc::ssional 9:30a.m. Ubrary Auditorium Biology 11 a.m . .278 Galvin 
in the North Dome ofthe ACC. 
This year, two thousand parents and family membc::rs arc expected for the weekend, and this is an­ticipated to considerably boost local business. The Hotel Committee, alone, has rcsc::rvc::d 680 rooms in arc::a hDtels that are available to the parc::nts at a 10 percc::nt discount. 
Although there has been some::. concern about competition from the:: new Marriott Hotc::l, the Morris Inn has not been affcctc::d and has booked its available thirty rooms. 
The weekend has bec::n carefully planned by fourteen separate:: com­mittees, and will further rc::quirc numc::rous Sophomore volunteers for its execution. The chairman, Greg Kane, and the exc::cutive coor­dinators Bill Hennessc::y and Ann Chapski along with all the:: commit· tee chairmen have bc::en carefully ovc::rsecing the wc::ekc::nd to assure its 
success. 
Evc::n the weather seems to bt· coopc::rating, with temperatures cx­pectc::d to remain in the upper thirties or fourties. The weekend, however, will continue as planned regardless of what weather condi­tions prevail. 
All Juniors and their parents are encouraged to attend all the scheduled cvc::nts, as this is an excel­lent opportunity to unite the two in­tegral parts of any student's life school and family. 
By MICHOLE MADDEN 
News Staff 
Junior Parents Weekend is 
designed to give the parents of 
Notre:: Dame Juniors a chance to see 
the campus and dorms, and mc::et 
some of the faculty and fric::nds that 
their children are so dosely in­
volvc::d with. 
The agenda for this weekend is as follows: Beginning Friday after two days of registration, there will be a Cocktail Dance:: with a suprise theme at Stepan Center at nine o'dock. Then on t Saturday morning starting at 9:30 will be a scric::s of collegiate workshops, t giving parents a chance to mn·t with some:: of the professors 
in cad~ department. 
Each ofthese will be followed by a small reception. Saturday c::vening Fathc::rs Hesburgh and Flemming will concc::lebrate the Junior Class Mass at Sacred Heart Church at S p.m. 
A shuttle will be provided from there to the ACC, where the Presi­dent's Dinner is being held. Three:: thousand pc::ople arc:: c::xpcctcd for the sit down event, with Father Hes­burgh as the speakerfor the evening. 
Each dorm will host a reception following the dinner, after which parc::nts will have:: time to spend with their sons and daughtc::rs. 
The final c::vent will be the Closing Brc::akf.lst Sunday at 10 a.m. -again Mathematics 10 a.m . .20 I Math and Computer 

Microbiology IIa.m. 10.2 Galvin 
Earth science 10 a.m. Earth Science:: Bid. 
•Anny ROTC The Army ROTC will also hold a reception from 2:30p.m. to 4:30p.m. in the Memorial Library Lounge. 
Mass(Saturday 5:00p.m., Sacrc::d Heart Church) 
The traditionalJunior Parents' weekend Mass will be in the Sacred 
Heart Church. Rev. Theodore M. Hc::sburgh,C.S.C., will be the main 
celebrant and the:: homolist will be Rev. Austin Fleming. A Jumior 
guitar will accompany the mass along with the Chapel Chocr. In the 
past this has ben a very popular and crowded event. We welcome all 
parents to share in our dass cclc::bration, but if for any reason you 
wish to attc::nd an altc::rnativc:: mass, the following is a schedule of 
weekend liturgies on campus: 
•Saturday 
Dillon Hall: 7:30a.m., II a.m. 
Holy Cross Hall: 10:30 p.m. 
Kec::nan Hall: S p.m. 
Sacred Heart Church: Main Church 9 a.m., 10:30a.m., 
12: I Sp.m.; Crypt-6 a.m., 7:1 S a.m., 9:30a.m., 10:4S a.m., 12:1 Sp.m. 
President's Dinner(Saturday, 6 p.m., ACC) 
The 30th Annual President's Dinner will be held at 7 p.m. in the ACC. Highlights of the evening indude a pc::rformance by the Notre Dame Glee Club and a speech by our guest of honor, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Univiersity Prc::sidcnt. For your convenience, busc::s will be available directly following the mass to trabsport you to the:: ACC and return you to campus after the dinner. If you prefer to drive, the parking lot surrounding the stadium across from the ACC is resc::rved. We ask that you plea~e enter Gate 3, and also to bring your dinner tickets wth you. It should be a fantasic evening! 
Donnitory Receptions(Saturday, I 0 p.m.) 
Parc::nts are invited back to the dorms t(>r refreshments and a chance:: to get to know more:: of the students' friends and their parents. Off-campus students are welcome in the dorm in which they rc::sidcd while on campus, and transfer students art· encouraged to visit a friend's hall as well. 
Closing Breakfast(Sunday, 10 a.m., ACC) 
MonsignorJohn J. Egan, Head of Pastoral and Social Ministry and Special Assistant to the President, will be the guest speaker at the closing breakfast which will be a delightful way to wrap-up a won­derful weekend. Breakfast will be served promptly at 10 a.m., so we ask that you arrive early. Pleas enter at Gate 3. 
--:r­

-~ --~~~--~ --~----~ ·-~ 
r---------~~--...~---------------­
Friday, February 19, 1982-page 6Editorials  

Who's interferi11:g in the family? attendance. "Parents must give writ-are for women, the proposed regula-U--UGJWe think that's wrong."WASHINGTON--Richard ten permission before a child can go tion would spare young men from IIIUAWe eoEver since Congress agreed lastSchweiker doesn't deserve a single on a scho_ol ~rip and must explain such embarrassing scenes with and Cody ShearerAugust to "encourage,-parental in­Valentine this year. Judging from his when a ch1ld IS absent from class for parents.)remarks at a House subcommittee volvement in teenage contraceptive even one day," he said. " It's Of course, parents should know ashearing last week, the secretary of counseling, right-to-life groups such Here and Nowparadoxical..." much as possible about a child's per-Health and Human Services is bound as the American Life Lobby have Does Schweiker really believe sonal life. It's a natural respon­to widen the gap between young been pressuring Schweiker to in­risk additional alienation between parents will dispatch with a sibility. But it's improper andpeople and their parents. tepret Congress' language as a generations, Schweiker and the Newteenager's birth control needs just as ill-founded for a government to doAlmost ·two months ago, mandate for parental notification. Right are only undermining theirblithely as tht~y do with permission the background briefing. ParentsSchweiker proposed that federally­And they seem to have gotten their own goal of bringing familiesslips and gym class excuses? Doesn't must inform themselves and develop funded family planning clinics notify way. "together."he realize that Uncle Sam invites strong communication with theirthe parents of clients under 18 who'd Unfortunately, word of Y~~_$ people, who already have a excess estrangement when Dad children long before birth contolrequested presciptions for con­Schweiker's proposed regulations learns of Amy's new diaphragm? becomes an issue. difficult time growing up, are left in traceptives. Later this month, has perhaps already steered (Since all prescription contraceptives If the administration is willing to the lurch of such self-delusion. Schweiker is expected to issue the thousands of teens away from rules in their final form. prescription contraceptives to less It's not as if the implications of reliable methods such as foams, con­Schweiker's plan are lost on those doms and Mr. Withdrawal. Americans who'll be most affected. The Alan Guttmacher Institute, "What's the point of going in for which is affiliated with the Planned help if they're just going to rat on Parenthood Foundation of America us?" one young high school student and widely regarded as the nation's from Louisiana asked us recently. leading authority on teenage fertility, Added the editors of the (University estimates that 25 percent of the near­of) Minnesota Daily: " If this ly I million teenagers who rely on proposal is implemented, many of federally-funded clinics wouldn't those parents whom the administa­patronize such places under the new tion seeks to notify about their chil­rule. Only 2 percent of this group, the den's sexual activity will not learn institute contends, would sacifice about it until their daughters come sexual activity for the sake of Mom home pregnant." and Dad. The result would surely But Schweiker, a former running mean a higher teenage pregnancy mate of Ronald Reagan's, isn't rate (already one in 10 young women budging from his original position. today becomes pregnant before He told the House Subcommittee on reaching 18). Health and the Environment last As a father of five, Schweiker Tuesday that the government's ought to know that most teenagers policy of secretly providing birth today can't talk about their own sex  

control prescriptions is more dan­gerous to families than his proposed regulation requmng parental notification. "We've built a Berlin Wall between the kid and the parent. 
lives in the company of parents and expect a mature response. Instead, he places often traumatic matters of sexuality in the same league with questions of report cards and school 
''{oo HOO -IS AN'f&>"'PY HOM"E? ~ 1\RE UNARMED AM~RICAN ADVISERS COME TO Th"ACU You ij>Wio SUI~'D ~ITil£ BRIDGES" ANI> STIJFF. Yoo Hoo -1 AJSO~INK THIS IS CRAZY!' 
Proponents of world disarmament unrealistic 

It would have been better for humanity had nuclear energy never been developed, for past history indi­cates that few individuals and no governments can be trusted with such awesome power. But that is a purely hypothetical proposition now. Nuclear weapons exist, they will not go away, and we have no alternative but to learn to live with them. 
Proponents of multilateral or negotiated disarmament start with an equitable assumption: that all nations with nuclear armories should pursue disarmament together, for to expect one to do so in order to set an ex­ample for the rest is innately un­reasonable and, in practice, will assure that nothing is accomplished. Unhappily, prospects for the success of negotiated disarmament are close to zero. In the Middle Ages the 
Church tried to moderate warfare by such devices as the Truce of God and the Peace of God. The efforts were about as effectual as the endeavor of the NCAA to police basketball recruiting. Several disarmament con­ferences were convened in the 1920's and 1930's None achieved anything save the Washington Naval Con­ference of 1921-22 which limited British and U.S. defense installations in the Far East for the benefit ofJapan and thereby condemned to death thousands of English and American troops twenty years later. None of the disarmament negotiations conducted with the Soviet Union since World War I I have resulted in anything 
noteworthy. Weimar Germany sys­tematically cheated on the disarma­ment provisions of the Treaty of Versailles and Japan routinely evaded the paper restncuons imposed upon her by disarmament agreements. Since Marxist metap­hysics teaches that the end justifies the means and that the laws of history insure that the whole earth must eventually become communist, who can repose confidence in the Rus­sians to observe disarmament agree­ments without regular. outside inspections --inspections which Moscow refuses to permit? · 
Advocates of disarmament put the cart before the horse t anyway. Arms building is not the cause of interna­tional animosities but the result of them. The USA does not build arms aagainst Canada or Mexico, nor they against us, but we and the Soviet Union do arm against each other since each fears and distrusts the other, the two states have clashing national inerests, and because American and Russian designs for the future of humanity are incom­patible. 
In sum, those who favor multi­
lateral nuclear disarmament partially misconceive the problem, and then underrate the difficlties that impede progress. 
The advocates of unilateral dis­
armament are a different breed 
entirely. they begin with an ·assump­
tiorl of moral superiority to others by 
claiming that religious principles compel support of their doctrines. Then they proceed to treat the whole question of nuclear armaments as if it had no practical dimension: that is, they say nothing about what would happen if the Free World actually did throw away its nuclear weapons without reciprocity. What would happen is quite clear: the communist states would rapidly inherit the earth. 
If disarmers really believe that it is better to be "Red than dead" they should say so forthrightly. There is, after all, a case for such view: tyrants come and go, and tyrannies rot away. Doubtless the Marxist varieties will too. But unilateral disarmers should not ignore the fact that such a process would be spread over generations, even centuries, and that meanwhile their descendants would groan under dull, heavy despotisms like those of contemporary easterm Europe and China. 
They also easily forget just what communist conquest has meant in the past.Lenin, Stalin, and successors have sent to death somewhere be­
tween twenty and sixty miUion Rus­sians since 1917. Maso Tse Tung slaughtered comparable numbers in China in a generation. When the Rus­sian armies poured westward m 1944-45. the plight of those in their 
path was !lOt enviable. A few of the old Prussian landowning class escaped to the west; the rest were murdered. 

What is "moral" about exposing people beyond the Iron Curtain to such experiences at the hands of new Red Czars, their armies, and their state police? 
Apart from the dubious proposi­tion that surrender and submission is synonymous with morality, uni­lateral disarmament would not even produce the physical safety desired by its advocates. If the whole world should be communized one day it is highly likely that it would not be a homogeous Red Empire but would consist of a number of states. Since present communist countries are bit­terly divided among themselves and quite as contentious as other nations there would not be fewer occasions for war than now. Since communist states do not suffer pacifist move­ments to flourish, nor are their governments inhibited by the humanitarian sentiments of domestic liberals, in a wholly Marxist world the use of nuclear weapons in war would become more rather than Jess likely. 
Those who claim Christianity, properly understood, compels aban­donment of nuclear weapons, should recollect some past history. The medieval church allowed the Just War in principle. In the hard world of deeds, if our ancestors had not dis­played more faith and spirit than 
some of their descendants the wes­tern world would have long since 
Bernard Norling 
Opinion 
been overwhelmed by Huns, Avars, Saracens, Magyars, Viking, Turks, \ and Mongols, and Christianity would have vanished. 
One wonders whatever happened to the venerable Christian maxim that the matter of the greatest importance in existence is not the comfort and security of bodies but the salvation of souls? How has it happened that so many spokesmen for contemporary Christian churches espouse the world view of the aggressively anti­Christian philosophies of the 18th century: that the main business of life is to live more safely and pleasantly in this world? We must all die one day. Are we more dead from a nuclear bomb than from the thrust of a sword , a piece of shrapnel, an automobile, a stroke, or cancer? 
The idea that history is the record of human progress, and that such progress is self-sustaining, is Jess than three centuries old. Ancient and medieval men, pagan nd Christian, thought that life , whether of in­dividuals or societies, was cyclical and essentilly tragic. Perhaps they were wiser than we? Certainly they were more realistic. 





==IheDbseLVer== 
Founded November 3, 1966 The Observer is•an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the -policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed a~ accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a maJority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief..............................john McGrath Executive News Editor........................ Kdli Flint Sports Editor ...... Skip Desjardin News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh PbotoEditor.........................................John Macor SMC Executive Editor............ \1ary Agnes Carey Editorials Editor......................•Anthony Walton SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 

Department Managers 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager................... Michael Monk Controller .............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
Friday, February 19, 1982 -page 7
The Observer 



Dictatorship reigns in Nicaragua 
Over two years ago in Nicaragua, 11 coalition of Marxist guerrillas, businessmen, and inlluential Cat­holics overthrew the dictatorship of Gen. Anastasio Somoza. Many Ameri~.:ans believed that the coalition would end the old regime's massive corruption and violations of human 
rights and would provide a measure of economic justice to Nicaraguans. Others were far more skeptically fearing that the Marxist Sandinistas would gain the upper hand in a new government and apply a strict Marx­ist line to economic and foreign policy. 
A judgement of the new govern­ment's performance is now possible, and it appears that the skeptics were right. The nation is run by nine com­manders of the Sandinistas. They have set the country upon a dis­astrous course which includes nationalization of private property, repression of human rights, and a military buildup which threatens neighboring countries and vital American interests. Defense Minis­ter Savedra has set the tone for the regime in recent speeches. "We are anti-Yankee, we arc aginst the 
bourgoisie... Marxism-Leninism is the sdentific doctrine that guides our revolution. "He has warned that the government's enemies "will be han· ging along the roads and highways of the wuntry." 
The government is showing an in~.:reasing disdain for human rights as former coalition members defect. 
In September four leading busines­
smen were arrested after publicly criticizing the regime for "financial indiscipline" and for pursuing "an undeniable anti-Marxist-Leninist line." the independent newspaper La Prensa, which survived Somozan repression, has been repeatedly closed for recent editorial attacks. Aifonso Robelo, a former member of the ruling junta and now an opposi­tion leader, was forced to hide with his family in his bedroom closet as a mob of 200 people attacked his house, destroying his family cars and defacing the house. Members of an agricultural cooperative were mur­dered by Sandinista security men for 
resisting nationalization. 
Nicaraguans are beginning to realize the brutal nature of the government. The archbishop of Managua was quoted by the Wall Street Journal as saying that the revolution "has filled the hearts of men with hate." Mr. Robelo asked a Newsweek reporter in anguish, "My God, what has become of our revolu­tion?"The head of the Nicaraguan Human Rights Commission has labelled the regime a "totalitarian" one which uses its power "to attack the members and destroy the offices of the political, labor, religious, and humanitarian organization." A native Nicaraguan summed it up to. a Newsweek reporter. "We have traded the dictatorship of one Somoza for the dictatorship of nine little Castros." That reporter also recorded the response to the criticisms by a government offi­
cial. "Survival takes precedence over be matched for at least 10 years. A petty freedoms." Western economist has labelled 
The Sandinistas are as economi-Nicaragua as "one of the world's cally incompetent as they are great beggar nations." The repressive. The estimated inflation nationalization of 40 percent of the rate is bearing 50 percent, the un-economy has scared investors and employment rate is 15 to 20 percent. entrepreneurs away. A state of emer­government spending is up over 40 gency which was declared in Sep­percent since 1980, and there is a tember only increased state control, sever shortage of hard currency due imposing new taxes, and banned to skyrocketing imports. A World strikes and price increases taken Bank study indicates that pre-without prermission. revolution production 'levels won 'I' What is most dangerous about the 
AndreW Cochran 
Nicaraguan collapse is that those in power want to share it with their neighbors. I will describe the un­precedented military buildup in Nicaragua and its ramifications in my next column. 


P.O. Box Q 
Reader criticizes recent editorials 
Dear Editor; While it was all too typical of recent editorials, The Ob­server's endorsement for Student Body President managed to be even more disappointing. In the editorial, The Observer lamented the apathy of both students and administration regarding student government. However, The Observer harbors the mo~t apathy of all towards student government. They didn't even deem it necessary to issue their endorse­ment of a candidate until one and a half hours after the election started. The majority of people probably never saw the endorsement until after they had voted. Furthermore, The 
Observer devoted more space to a "candidate" who believed "the president might as well live in Nepal" than all three real candidates combined. Thet is apathy. 
The Observer's endorsement of Earl Rix was even more disturbing-­not because of the choice itself, but because of the reasoning employed. 
I could use a typical Observer editorial ploy and insinuate that Earls past affiliation with the paper alone prompted it to support, but I won't. Rather, I cannot understand the logic used in reaching the decision. Claim­ing that Rix and Natcheff "have the most realistic viewpoint," we then learn that they intend to go be the system... because the present system does not work." In other words, The Observer doesn't want to have just a few rules changed; they want the whole system changed. How realistic does that sound? A look at recent editorials in The Ob­server indicates that they have hardly been concerned with presenting a "realistic" view of campus issues: 
Feb. 3: John Macor wrote a scath­ing personal attack on Fr. YanWol­vear because of his rejection of the keg proposal. Rather than present YanWolvear's argument 'fairly and analyze it accordingly, Macor mere­ly states, "To'~ttack the individual reasons for the rejection of the proposal would be too simple an ex­ercise in logic and common sense." 
In words, the article depicts him as a "babbling, illogical, and spoiled despot." Much more demeaning, however, is the blatantly disrespect­ful caricature of him ignoring the stu­dents. In the end, Macor says that as college students, "we must learn to fight now against anything we believe to be wrong." These are all very strong sentiments over a deci­sion which five days later The Ob­server acknowledged as "no great issue in itself." realistic? · 
Feb.3: Anthony Walton's weekly version of "What's Wrong with Ronnie" has become tiresome. From the manner in which The Observer presents the issues, they would have us to believe that only one side exists to all national questions --the anti­Reagan side. Realistic? 
Feb. 8: The Observer concluded its endorsement with the supposedly rhetorical question, "Who's univer­sity is it?"( Incidentally, the correct word is "Whose".) Their answer is, of course, the students. But is that realistic? While we are currently the most significant members of the community, we are by n~ means the only ones, and we certainly don't own it. Notre Dame also exists for alumni. families, friends, faculty, staff, and the outside community; the administration must also answer to these people. 
Responsible journalism requires that both s 1 ides of the issue are con­sidered fairly and realistically before a critical evaluation of the issue is presented. If The Observer con­tinues to ignore the "other" side of the issues, their readers will gradual­ly come to consider them as the "babbling and illogical" ones. 
Timothy McClean St. Ed's Hall 
Editorial Editor Anthony Walton 
replies:Though you are entitled to your opinion, your letter ignores several Observer policies and  three candidates. The coverage was more than adequate. The endorse­ment traditionally appears on the  the keg issue; the overall opinion of the board was that it was "no great issue in itself." Hence, the  
procedures  which  should  be  day of the election in the hope of  'contradiction.'  
clarified. To answer your charges one at a time: I) SBP endorsements are made after an interview by the general board of each of the can­didates. The Observer endorsement of Rix was made after discussion of each ticket, and it is an endorsement we stand by. As to the allegation that The Observer devoted more space to the write-in candidate, that is not true in either the specific or the general. Three times as much space (147 words to 50) was given to the 'real' candidates in the endorsement editorial, and, on Friday Feb. 5, The  encouraging more than 48/ (the ac­tual turnout) of the student body to vote. Due to technical problems with our system and the press, the paper was late, and we regret that. As to your not-so-subtle insinuation ofcol­lusion between Rix and The Ob­server, I will not comment, except to say it is an insult to the integrity and dedication of the board without any basis whatsoever. 2) The editorials ofJohn Macor are purely his opinion, and in no way reflect the opinions ofThe Observer. The subjects that Macor writes on  3) The same can be said of the editorial columns of Anthony Wal­ton. They have nothing to do with the editorial opinions ofthis paper. The columns presellt a certain political viewpoint, one that fits into the spectrum of views offert'd in th(• paper. If you feel that Mr. Reagan deserves d(fense (although Andrew Cochran and William Buckley, our conservative columnists, have ample opportunity to do so), I suggest you write a few articles defending him. The Observer has an open door policy concerning submissions. and  
Observer devoted I and I /2 pages to  are ofhis choosing and reflect his in­ welcome  any  well-written  opinion  
the platforms and statements of the  terests. Macor /i1und controversy in  articles for publication.  

Students defend Shapiro 
Dear Editor; In an Observer news that. Are we supposed to be sheltered tcrtatmng as well. As for the outside article (Feb. 9), we learned that Prof. from non-Catholic views simply be-reading assignments, do these stu-Samuel Shapiro would no longer be cause Notre Dame is a Catholic in-dents truly believe they have grounds teaching a Humanities Seminar stitution .? Is this meant to suggest for complaint? Contrary to what they class. Prof. Shapiro apparently lost that we should not be exposed to cer-may prefer, Notre Dame is an institu­his class because one of his former tain ideas because we may not agree tion of higher learning, and the teach-students complained to her advisor, with those ideas? ing methods they encountered in high and Emil Hofman, about Prof. We find the accusations against school are just that: high school met­
Shapiro's use of "colorful Ian-Prof. Shapiro's approach 10 be ·the hods. 
guage," his re.ligious views and that result of an extremely narrow-We feel that Dean Hofman's 
Prof. Shapiro gave additional minded concept of learning. A valid refusal to comment on the 
reading and movie assignments. liberal education involves the ex-"administrative matter" ("It's not 
We fail to see why Prof. Shapiro 'ff' 'd p · the right thing to do.") is an obvious 
should lose his class over these posure to may dt erent t eas. rot. .
Shapiro has by no means forced his dodge ot a very real injustice. The "issues." A person can hear beliefs on his students; rather, he has complaints of two students hardly "colorful language" by just walking encouraged them to examine their merit the irrational "change of across campus, into the dining hall, own beliefs. This makes his classes scheduling " imposed upon Prof. through any dorm, male or female, or both interesting and challenging _ Shapiro. We find it difficult to by watching a movie on television. not "uncomfortable . ., believe that after eighteen years as a Having had Prof. Shapiro as a teac-professor at Notre Dame Prof. 
her we can safely say that his use of The other charge made by the Shapiro is losing a class because of "colorful language" never had a anonymous students, Prof. Shapiro's his methods. Why have Prof. malicious tone to it. assigning of outside readings and Shapiro's methods suddenly been 
As for Prof. Shapiro expressing movies, is at least as ridiculous a the placed at the mercy of two students? "religious views which were not in previous charges. The concensus in line with Catholic doctrine," I do our classes was that the movies were Randy Hill not understano what is wrong wun not only relevant to the class, but en-Nancy Scribner 
_sH0 W ( fi~SiiiiiiE~........._.Fricta_.y,Febr_.uary1_.9,19s_.2P_.·ages 

Marge Piercy 
,},.. , ~ 

Stromberg Schaeffer 
Robert Hass 

Writers come alive at Sophomore literary Festival 
been a major part of my job," says Lyn Placke and committee. mittee have the difficult respon­Notre Dame, the hospitality com­
W 
hat do you talk about while Carlin. "I have great faith in the ex­Published by Modern Graphics at sibility ofproviding gracious, mittee then sees them offto the air­
dining with a Nobel Prize win­
ecutive committee." Peru, Indiana, ilt will include short one-to-one contact with the guests port.
ner? How should a budget of The job ofoverseeing publicity biographies, written by students, of while they are here on campus. "It's­Coordinating this whole$1 5,000 be managed? What do poets 
for the festival was given to sopho­all the featured writers, a letter from kind offrightening,"says Allen, "but operation is sophomore major Sallylike for dessert? How do you 
Dan Keusal 
more Arts and Letters pre­the chairman, and a list ofpatrons. it's a thrill to be in charge ofhosting Carlin. "The most overwhelming professional major Lori Tobias. Dave Barber is in charge oftravel these people." part ofmy job is overseeing the plan­Tobias and her committee have arrangements for the writers this The committee's first job is to pick ning and execution ofall that's going pronounce "Czeslaw Milosz?" These 
printed 300 copies each of two pos­year. He helped out last year when up each writer at the airport and on. That may sound general or ters, both designed by sophomore his sister, jane,, was chairman and bring them back to their room at the vague, but it's the most psychologi­are only some ofthe questions that 
Jeff Ripple. They've corresponded was given the !travel coordinator Morris Inn. Each writer will be taken cally weighing part of my job." SLF
the chairman, five-member ex­position on thiis year's executive out to lunch by ageneral committee
ecutive committee, and numerous with the English department and faculty adviser Stephen Fredman had them pass on the news to their committee. "I had to find out from member and given a campus tour. adds that "beingchairman ofthe fes­
general committee members ofthis year's Sophomore Literary Festival students. Personal invitations were tival is equivalent to doing three sent to each member ofthe sopho­semester's work in two semesters."
have had to face. The festival will take place from Sunday, Feb. 21 
more class. A complete selection of In addition to general duties, Sally through Saturday, Feb. 27 and is works by the featured writers has plays a leading role in deciding planned and run entirely by stu­been purchased by the library; it will which authors are chosen for the fes­dents. Eight writers will speakat this be put on reserve during the week of tival. She also assumed treasurer's 
year's festival. the festival and will then become responsibilities when the finance "More that anything else" says part ofthe library's permanent col­member of the executive commit­
chairman Sally Carlin, "this job as lection. Ashowcase in the library tee resigned halfway through the chairman has taught me to have concourse opposite the auditorium year. great respect for anything that's or­has been set up. The festival will also Financing for the festival comes 
largely from the Student Union·ganized." Though Sally jokes that "it be featured in a Notre Dame amazes me how many things go right 
Magazine article for the first time. Additional funds wereDinner parties are given for each art­
orwrong by chance, how may things Finally, a series ofsilk screen pos­the writers or their agents where received from the budgets ofthe they would be 'coming from and ist at the home ofa faculty member
ters, hand made by students Mary Ann Esch and Linda Kenney Art then I had to arrange to get them or a graduate student. "We sent out
hang on a thread,!' she adds seriously departments ofthe college ofArts 
that "I've been blessed with a fantas­and Letters ( $1 ,000) and from
letters to prospective hosts asking
tic staff." Professor Don Vogl, and Tobias will here at a rock bottom price," says patrons, mostly members ofthe Dave. Travel arrangements were for volunteers and accepted offers
The organizational burden for the come out a few days prior to the on a first come, first serve basis," ex­
festival falls largely to that staff, the start of the festival's as a last "push." made through lFirst Source Travel sophomore class ( S500 ). All festival 
Agency in Badin Hall. Dave says that plains Allen. After each artist's talk, a
executive committee. Each member These posters will have the festival's expenses must be paid from this reception will be given in the library
of the executive committee has a slogan, conceived by Tobias: the travel agents were "very help­money, including stipends for the 
lounge to which all who attended
specific responsibility -travel ar­"Celebrate the freedom to create, ful." He was also responsible for speakers that range from S600 to 
reserving rooms at the Morris Inn. the talk are invited. This gives stu­
rangements, publicity, finances, the witness the creations of the free." S2000 each. 
dents a chance to meet the author'sprinted program, or hospitality. The printed program will be dis­Hospitality co-coordinators Tom 
See SLF, page 9

escort for his or her entire stay at
"Learning that art ofdelegation has tributed at the festival is the work of Allen and Lisa Guerra and their com­

'Thefestival brings the sophomore class together. It gives the students here something they can be proud of, something that is imaginative ... ' 
·~ . ' •7&6: ·­

------------~---.,.-~­

The Observer Features Section 
Friday, February 19, 1982 -page 9 
------~-­


If love ever failed 
To the: Junior Parent~ on thc:ir weekend: 
My dears: you may think that some of us, because: we: are single, don't know the problems of raising young ones. I can assure: you that I personally know a great deal about raising young ones, and maybe this weekend we can compare heartbreaks and disap­pointmt.•nts. Two years ago today, February 19, I brought a nine-week old cocker spaniel, named Darby O'Gillll, to the: campus. Ever since then, I've been his owner, master, priest, t:uher, chauffeur, health officer, dietitian. recreation and morale: director, policeman, truant oftkt.·r. educator, roommate. Christian good c:x­ampk, and sole: support. 
You say, with some: annoyance:, "But he's only a dog." 
I reply: "lloVl· him dearly, and to me: he: is family." 
You argue:: "You nt.·vc:r begot him,"and I insist: "In the 
~adnt.·ss oflosing my old dog, the original Darby O'Gill, there: was a pain equivalent to that ofa new life being birthed a~ I consi(krc:d bringing a new puppy to Notre Damt.·. For thirty days, I watched a beloved creature struggling with hi1> mortality, until! carrkd him to his final sleep. One gt.·nt.·ration succeeds another, and the decisions ofdeparture: and arrival depended on me:. On the: thirty-first day, D. O'G. II laid his pawprints for the tirSI time on the snows ofFebruary in front Keenan Hall. I became totally responsihle for a creature's life. That's as much ofa favor as one hc:ing can do for another." 
With a new dog, as with a new haby, there were the early problc:ms ofmaking him feel at home. How could I 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
change that. But try to invest your energy where you can bring home a stud fcc:, and never bring embarrass­ment on you good name as a member of the American Kennel Club." 
I have thrown away money in expensively educating my dog. In spending seventy-live dollars for his obedience school, I fc:el I've given him his chance for greatness. This spring, there will be another forty-five dollars, if the e\onomy allows it, spent fur having him learn his commands offthe leash that he was suppose to learn when he was tethered to me. Even on the leash, he scarcely comes when he is ordered to come, and I have to fight him to hed. He just doesn't pay artc:ntion to what I tell him; and if1try to discipline him, he gets sulky. Oh, the moods you put up with in a growing dog, and how saucy he would be ifhc: could only talk. 
/ 

Friends say: "He will bc: old soon enough. The puppy passions will dry up, and you'll be left with a lazy dog taking naps on the sidewalk. What fun will he: be then? 
Quiet times come at the ends ofdays when 1sit reading, and Darby watches people through an open doorway in Pasquc:rilla West. Eventually, he falls asleep; 






kl·t.·p him from whimpning when he woke up in the after awhilc:, my own head nods, and we c::njoy an hour middle of the: night? "Wrap a ticking clock in a towel, ofshared rest. Then, 1 wake up; for a moment, I think 

jack Nicholson 
and lay him next to it," the spaniel's Dr. Spock recom­Darby has wandered offto visit students, leaving me mended. My dog was not deceived by a mechanical alone. I see he is there, awake, watchful, as though he device:. lie: insisted on sleeping under the bed, where he had been guarding me. By his presence:, he gives to a could ht.·ar my snort.·s, and I could hear his. He sleeps dormitory room a kind ofdomeStic grace that makes it a there still. Whatewr bogeyman comes to me at night, I home. always know I can he safe: with Darby under the: bed. Dogs, like children, arc: a worry, an expense, and a 


Nicholson shines 
Puppies cost money for doctors and innoculations; burden. In some unprogrammed momc:nt, they offer us they nc:c:d sitters for the timt.•s you must leave me alone; love or loyalty or the: bc::auty ofbeing there, and we feel and they must be housc:hroken as quickly as possible. blessed by our decision not to live alone. 
in 'Border 'line film
Om· brief memory of this domestication: there was Adog's life passes more quickly than a child's. Dogs snow on the: ground when Darhy came:. He: hc:camc: are not made in God's image; yet surely somc: goodness used to the: snow as a place: ti>r attending his bodily com­in them bears witness to a kindness or tldelity belonging 
L
et's talk about Jack Nicholson for a littlc: while. As Jake Gelles, in li>rt. As the: snow meltc:d, he had to search ti>r places to to the perfect heauty of the Creator. Surely respon­Chinatown, he was superb, the perfect grungy gumshoe trapped
go. Finally, thnt.· was only one: small patch ofsnow left, sibility to the )mmble creatures is not totally different adrnidst the corruption he is trying to clean up. He's a semi-hont.·st,
slightly biggc:r than a postage: stamp, and Darby was from the responsibility parents assume on a nobler semi-decent man whose only reward for his trouble is a third
faithful to it. I worric:d about what he: would usc: when plane? nostril. And Nicholson's acting is flawless. In Cuckoo's Nest, Nichol­
tht.· ground was barc:. Hc: adjusted; what else could hc: In raising my two dogs over the last twelve years, I son's McMurphy is fantastic. Who couldn't like his World Series
do? Neverthc:lc:ss, when the: first snowtlakes fell in the: feel I have been doing homework in parenting, learning play-by-play? I even liked Jack in Roger Coman's The Raven.
fall. Darhy greeted them as though he were going home. some small lessons of responsibility..\1y dog is highly Sex, junk ti>Od, chasing bicycles: how can you save a imperfect; how much of this is due to his natural This opening paragraph is meant as a reburtal to those convinced young dog from being himself? I was worried and naughtiness, and what bad tricks oftemper did he learn that Tony Richardson's The Border is a showcase for Jack Nichol­touched to lind out that my dog had tried to make love from me? All life, with its varied kinds of behaviour, h~ son's acute talents. It also encompasses all the nice things I intend to to a tt.·ddy bear. How much oflifc: does he understand, I elemc::nts of mystery, though grace, they say, has been say in this review. I found the Border to be a supertluously violentwonder. What are his problems ofsexual identity as a givc::n to people to make them them godlike. In my life, and meaningless tilm whose only saving grace: is Jack Nicholson'smale: animal, living by himselfamong people, seeing no­it doesn't matter whether it's the dog or the master who perfomance. That, however, is far from a sufficient enough plus fac­thing ofother dogs except those who wander through has the grace, as long as we always forgive each other tor fo me to recommend the tilm. It is definitely no showcase.
the neighborhood as adventurers? He would live on a for the hurts in a struggle where each one of us wants The Border tells the story ofsteady diet oftwinkies, potato chips, and pizza crusts. his own way. Both of us is capable ofloving, and being Charlie Smith, a disenchantedCan a dog that would make his supper on chocolate loved, and my only real disappointmc::nt would be if border patrolman whochip cookies he trusted not to be libertine in other love ever failc:d between us. 

Dennis Chalifour 
becomes involved in the cor­ways? How can I be sure: he would be discriminating I have learned a lot from my dog, but I will learn even ruption that pervades his oc­ahout his mating preferences? I always tell him: "Darby, more from watching junior students with their parents cupation and then lashes outwhatever you do, you are still my dog. Nothing can on this weekend. 
Movies


against it. It's a plotline thats been run through the Hol­lywood carwash countless times before and will undoubtably be run through many more times. And yet, even with such a predictable for­mula, director Tony Richardson manages to confuse his audience:. 
... SLF 


For example (and examples aen't tough to find), a pre-titles se­quence presents a Mexican church that is destroyed by an
The final speaker will be Rober

the 7:30, Library Auditorium format. 
earthquake or bulldozer or Godzilla for all we know. The reason for
Creeky. who has published prose
continuedfrom page 8 
Instead, three of her plays (they are this lirtlc episode is never explained or even alluded to in the
criticism. anti poetry. His latest
short ) will be performed by the remainder of the film. Another thing that bothered me was the lackThere will he eight writers speak­work, "'The Collected Poems of
ND/SMC Theatre at 8:00 at Chatau­ofaffection Charlie Smith displays to his wife (portrayed with all theing at this year's festival. Each writer Robert Creell'y," will bt.· published
qua, followed by a question and subtlety of Laverne and Shirley by Valerie Perrine) for whom hewill give a reading of their work and this fall by the University ofCalifor­
answer session and a reception. Tht.· 
becomes involved in the corruption in the list place. Any nomal per­talk in the library auditorium at 7:30 nia Press. 
plays will be repeated on Wednes-. 
son would have dumped her in the list reel. 
p.m. ofhis or her night. This will be Each student involved in the fes­
day night at 9:00.
ti>llowc:d by a reception immediate­tival contributes his own vision of The holes in Richardson's exposition ae held together in a per­Marge Piercy will speak on Wed­
ly afterward and a workshop the the festival's value to the Notre verse coagulation ofone violent act after another. A little boy is shotnesday. Her literary activities are
next day. Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
in the chest, an infant's life .is threatened, a man is crushed by a bul­varied. In a biographical sketch
Czeslaw Milosz, who won the Chairman Sally Carlin says, "You ldozer, a man's head is blown otf, etc.. At one point, Nicholson com­which she sent SLF, Piercy describes
I':)HO Nobel Prize for Literature will have to experience it to understand ments upon the action and vomits on camera. I don't know if thisherself as a "novelist, poet, essayist,
open the: festival on Sunday night. its value ... there's something isn't supposed to be: a cue to the audience.
and reviewer. She has also taught at
Milos grew up in Poland and is now a spiritual about the festival... when
several colleges participated in
United Statc:~ citizen. you experience this it broadens how
several prestigious writer's con­But Richardson's crew must take their share of the hlame. RicPoet Robert Has~ and poet-c:ritic you live your life." SLF faculty ad­
ferences. 
Waites tlat and over-exposed photography gives the tilm a sort of K­Robert Pinsky will both ~peak on viser Stephen Fredman says, "The
Thursday night's program Mart quality. The editing is ill-paced and continuity is sometimesMonday. lias~ <.:ome~ !rom St. Mary's festival makes the writers come
features David Wagoner. Wagoner lacking. Ry Cooder's musical score is at best amatc:uish. And all ofusColkge in Oakland. lie won the alive; they arc: no longer just be­
has published ten novels and his who thought that Freddy Fender had surely retired to a condo in197:~ Yak Younger Poets award, and tween the pages ofa book." Lori
style has been compared to that of Guadalajara will recognize with weak stomac:hs his familiar crooninghis nt.·w book, "Praise" has garnered Tobias emphasizes how the festival
Mark Twain. He is also a poet; his over an ill-matched montagc: ofchurch rubble.
critical accclaim. Pinsky has won gives the student a sense ofidentity
collected poems were nominated 
many awards for his poetry and his and a realization of their potential.
for a National Book Award. Susan I mentioned Polanski's Chinatown at the head ofthis review as just critical hook "The Situation of "The festial brings the sophomore
Stromberg Schaeffer, a professor of one example ofa tllm which covers the themes ofan ordinary guy upPoetry" has intluenced many class together. It gives the students
English at Brooklyn College, will against the corrupt machine with precise care and artistic knowhow.
readers since its puhlication in here something they can be proud
speak on Friday night. Ms. Schaeffer In it, Nicholson compliments Polanski with his controlled and multi­1977. of, something that is imaginative ...
has published live volumed of dimensional acting style. He is a finc: actor with many t1ne films un­Tuesday night belongs to by seeing the authors the students 
poetry and three novels, including der his belt. But Jack Nicholson isn't worth sitting through Theplaywright Megan Terry; it will be can realize that they too have the
the best seller, "Anya." 
Rnrt1t"r.
the: only night that will not follow ootential to 'freelv create' 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds Friday, February 19, 1982-page 10 
NOTICES Free rent;house for faculty lor sum­Alum from Chicago needs 2 DePaul GA STANLEY KUBRICK'S A CLOCKWORK Rose, AND THE LORD SAID: From th1s day on,mer;call Patty 3193228735 call refunded. t1x Will pay top dollar Call Charlie at 8214 ORANGE THIS SAT. NITE li'j ENG. AUD. Southern Comfort.eh. .maybe 11 won"t the SNAKE shall crawl on hiS belly at the 79:3012 be such a long. lonely weekend after all! 
feet of the woman... THE GOSPEL Available march 15th for I. NEED 2 DePaul GA's. Will pay $36 or YHGLDE 
ACCORDING TO SR. PATTY

OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/~ear 
rent,4bedroom,2bathroom.maintance my first born male child. Call JC at 8446. HE'S Ugly Malicloua Obnoxious and p.s. ll"s ALWAYS wonderful in D.C. 
round. Europe, S. Amer.. Australia. As1a. 
free house. $300 per month,plus $300 
Crass; JOE TREANOR lor UMOCI
All fields. $50Q-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­l"m glad you didnl break a leg last
deposit.Call233-2547 for appointment. Need 1 stu. or GA tic to DePaul game. Dear Stacey, 
ing. Free info. Write IJC, BBox 52-IN4, weekend bull hope you do thiS weekend!
Please call Kev1n, t 751 L1sa· Admit it . . 1t was awesome. Awesome! 
Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. Your roomie 
Three bedroom house, furmshed. on 
Do need a feel for the terra1n? Do you 
DID YOU CALL THE AIRLINES FOR YOUR SPRING BREAK RESERVA­TIONS?PICK UP YOUR TICKET AT 1ST SOURCE TRAVEL. SAINT MARY'S-­5606 N0--7080 Looking for a truly portable, yet powerful, personal computer? See THE OS. BORNE 1, 64K, dual 100K disk drives. complete software package. $1795. FOURWAY COMPUTER'PRODUCTS (Across from North Village Mall). 277­7720 ATTENTION: URGENTLY need to locate wltneu to an automobile acci­dent on October 10 at '7:30pm (day of the Florida State Game). The accident occurred on Cleveland Roed, Weal of Juniper, near Oakmont Park aubdlvl­alon. Pleue contact Volunteer Servlcea, X7308 If you have any ln­forrn811on. ...... MORRISON SCHWARTZER AND THE TOXIC WASTES are coming to NOTRE DAME ..... MARCH 3 AT THE ACC....Morrison IS the· proponent of the thnvmg new genre of music .... MICROWAVE ROCK! Tickets are not availible at the boxoffice. HEAR YE. HEAR YE, HEAR YE: ANN BOURJAILY, THE TALENTED AND LOVELY PIANIST, WILL PERFORM LLIVE AND IN CONCERT THIS SUN­DAY AT 3 PM. IN MOREAU HALL"S LITTLE THEATRE, SAINT MARY'S. BE THERE, ALOHA.  Rivers1de Dnve; 2 baths. Call 272-8360. HELP! I am 1n desperate need of 3-5 Ideal for two seniors or two graduate stu­DePaul G.A."s. Call41-4057. dents. PERSONALS]WANTED I I ~------------~ ZORRO I, Tl AMO! JE T'AIMEI I LOVE Need ride to Houston Texas. lor spring YOUII LOVE AND KISSES, ZORRO II break. If you are headed in that direction please call Timo at1782. HELP! 4STUDENT OR GA DEPAUL TIX NEEDEDI CALL JODI (SMC)4697 TYPING 28 years as a secretary. Excel­lent typist--retired. $1.00 per page. Call Looking lor a truly portable, yet powerful Phyllis 259-2501. personal computer? See The OabOrne 1, 64K, dual tOOK disk drives, plus $1400 RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX-FOR worth of software, all for $ t 795. FOUR­SPRING BREAK---WILL SHARE USUAL WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS. (Across CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYTIME. XXX from North Village Mall). 277-7720. Need nde to/from Madison, WI area lor DON'T FORGET TO SEE ANN BOUR­weekend of 2119-2/21 Share expenses JAILY LIVE AND IN CONCERT SUN­No.8837 DAY AFTERNOON-3 P.M. -IN SMC MOREAU HALL"S LITTLE THEATRE !Ill PHILADELPHIA, ALLENTOWN, TREN­TON! Ride needed for spr. brk. Call Mike Dean. Happy 21 stl Hope you have a great at 1386 fast! time. even if your parents are up here this weekend. Watch out for water fountains. NEED RIDE from U oil Champaign to NO We'd hate to think you'd wake up "' a for DePaul weekend. II you know of strange place. Love, Patty, Monica. Shari, anyone commg uo, please call Marya, Julie, & Amy 3846. Is there any chance of escap1ng th1s NEED RIDE TO PENN ST. ANY beautiful South Bend February? A couple WEEKEND. Call Michael233-2969. of Punks are g01ng to try th1s Friday. They may not make the sun shine outside, but 11  want to explore the loftiest peeks, the darkest 1ungtes? 1 can g1ve you a guided tour anytime for only ONE DOLLAR. This offer is good for a fimited time only. After e1ght weeks the pnce goes up. For more 1nfo call: Uncle Ryan's Guided Tours Special group rates available Dave, Who would you prefer to watch 60 M~nutes w1th? Cathy PS Thanks for the backrubl M1ke, I'm a little late, I wanted to· cngrat­ulate you on your new status-no, her test wasn't positive, I mean you being the new editor·in-chlef. Best of luck. Your piggy­back rider Rudy Fernandez, You are auch a god In that lovely suit coat. I especially love the beard. Old you aay that It only takes 14 and one hall daya? Ju81 think,· the entire NO male population could be like you In time to gradu81e. That would send ahlvers down my aplne. ITS RANDY KELLY'S BIRTHDAY ON THE 21RST. NOW HE'LL LEGALLY BE ABLE TO QUENCH HIS THIRST PLEASE-MAKE HIS DAY A JOYOUS ONE, HIS NUMBER IS NOW 8831! AND WHILE YOU'RE AT IT, PLEASE GIVE HIM A CLUE THE DINING HALL"S NOT JUST ONE SIDE -BUT TWO. THIS BIRTHDAY MESSAGE HAS BEEN BROUGHT TO YOU BY VICKI, THE ROOMMATE OF YOU KNOW WHO.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JULIAill Have a great day, and say hello to Mom for mel Sandi, Do you remember . cluttered chairs, Moonless, your lack of memory, yelling at Megan, Belg1an elite, never finishing anything but your dessert, talking too fast, Legs"", and of course brownies and pepperm1nt Schnapps? We wouldn't be us Without you. HAPPY BIRTHDAYilove, Megan and Mary Seeds, my big brother. this is for all the prom1ses I made and never lived up to. Say hi to Sly for me. Slater~. This 1s for a very special JPW for the parents of all my buddies, especially those of Cindy, Marian. Carolyn, Paul (Schneid), Bob (ROTC), Ray, Bo, Dan (Sox), and everyone else I forgot. AAiso. a happy weekend for those whose parents couldn't make it, especially Molly and Junk. Have a great weekend, from your buddy Dana. MARGARET FOSMOE MARGARET FOSMOE MARGARET FOSMOE NEWS ASSISTANT FOX THE CZECHOS. LOVAKIAN BROTHERS to my HGLDE: it'sgo1ngto be along, lone­ly weekend without my room1es and my ·southern comfort I"" love, the yellow rose To Colleen and Beth (my two wonderful roomies!): have a blast in Chicago thiS weekend I love, your lonely roomie  To the Non-preppy God: Thanks lor the flower-1 was surprised! Unfortunately, ·your Identity remains a secret; could you enlighten me? The Preppy Goddess To the sun-burned Golf God: What more need I say? And what happened to all those curly locks? Thal"s what happens when one has a ew beers and comes across sc1ssors. Wait til Angel gets ahold of you-ROTC's never looked so good! By the way, this 1s your charm1ng personal. Could we meet somewhere for say 5 minutes, look each other over and see what we th1nk? I hear you look gra11n navy and have a fetish for earnngs, correct grammar and purple! Goodnight, sweet dreams, say your prayers. You"ll miss me but I'll miss you more. Love, your sym­biotic algae Max and Sue went to Purdue To show them how to party Max drank a keg and broke his leg OUCH! (l"m a poet and I don't know 1t) Dan Keusal and Fnends · tomght 9:00 at the Nazz Dan Keusal and Friends -tonight 9:00 at the Nazz  
POTTERY SALE---Fnday LAFortune LOST/FOUND LOST: GOLD & PEARL FLOWER CHARM FROM A NECKLACE. Lost be­tween Farley and the Law School. If found, please call Phyllis--6844. REWARD. ' LOST 1PR. XL DARK BLUE SKI GLOVES IN EG. AUD. MONDAY NIGHT PLEASE CALL SEAN 1416 LOST: BROWN TWEED WOOL SCARF at NO-MAINE game Jan. 27 in section 108 of the bleachers. If found please call Ross at 1898. FOUND-one key on key chain outside gate 5 of A. C. C. on Feb. 10th. LOST: Green plaiq scarf. Last seen han­ging on the w1re fence 1n front of Badin Hall around 5:30p.m. If you happened to p1ck rt up, please call Karen Kostecky 8162. . Lost:  Need nde to Ft. Walton Beach, FL for spnng break. Share usual. Desperate!! Call T1m at 6759. KAPLAN MCAT and other MCAAT books for sale. Call4530 (SMC). HELP! Need nde to and from Massachu­setts for spring break. Call4530 (SMC). we need someone to bUild a bar for PE's party room. interested? call 4420. Mu81 deliver bananaa to my Uncle Bonzo In Washington D.C. I need a ride there anytime, any weekend. I will share driving and drinking expenses." I can even offer amus1ng conversation, unless you like silence. 1n which case I'll shut up and count p1gs through Ohio. II you're diving to D.C. give me (Ryan) a call at 272-8158 day or night. GOING WEST? RIDERS NEEDED TO KANSAS CITY, WICHITA, OR SALINA FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL LISA AT 8021. Need nde to Mich1gan State, East Lansing area. Can leave anytime Fnday 26th. or after 4:00 Thurs. Call Shari No.2858. ride desperately needed lor two t9 LONG ISLAND/N.Y. C. lor break! w111 share  sure as Hell is go1ng to be sunny 1nsidel Come 10m the fun! What does Debbie Harry, Johnny Rot­ten,and Chrissie Hynde have 1n com· mon? Come to THE party and find out! NEED RIDE HOME FOR SPRINGBREAK TO NORWALK,CT OR NEW YORK CITY AREA. CALL MATT-­1026. NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE OR UTTICA FOR SPRINGBREAK -IS ON THE WAY TO BOSTON -­WILL SHARE USUALS. CALL BRIAN 1026. ATTENTION: ALL SMC FRESHMEN GO WITH THE TEAM THAT PROMISES ACTIONIll MICHELLE LOPEZ JAYNE WATTON SUSAN O'HARA CAROLINE ROCKHART Hey Shorty (Yea you Regina!): Happy 64th Birthday from one and all at TND. the ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS shall return .  Hey Meg, I hope you get better real soon because Track practice JUSt 1sn., the same w1thout you and your humor. Love the Sex God of Flanner TUTOR NEEDED FOR ADULT WOMAN IN ENGLISH 109 CLASS. NEEDS HELP WITH ENGLISH GRAMMAR. HER FIRST LANGUAGE IS SPANISH. CAN MEET WITH TUTOR ON CAMPUS. IN­TERESTED VOLUNT£ERS CALL MS. FERRAUDI272-9706 AFTER 3:00. Tomorrow is the birthday of the foxiest McChick around ... What wierd things will happen? HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LAURAIIII promise to walk Dino ... Laura, I cannot wait 'till tomorrow when I eat dinner with the you. My heart belongs to you, Wilma!!! Love, Fred Wilma IS mine! REMEMBER THAT! Dear Phone Caller, thanks for the valentine! Please don't stop now Who are you? Keep it comin'. M. lshaug ATTENTION NO MALES! Tomorrow is Andrea Gregoire's Birthday. Come by 718 PE and wish her a HAPPY BIRTHDAY!  BAND NIGHT AT SENIOR BAR ALL BANDMEMBERS AND FRIENDS WELCOME MONDAY NIGHT ATTENTION '79-80 2S & 4N and 80-81 3S & 4S REGINA-ites: Tricia Burke & Barb Schmuckal 1nvite you to a reumon this Sun. Feb. 21 SMC Clubhouse 2:30­4:30 BYOM (bnng your own munchies) GOOD TIMES!! Dear POOP, YOU make everything so much funll SMACKS, S.S.PIE ATTN: TANK, THE BIG ONE, CAVEMAN Your existance makes our exlstance un... pleasant! THE FACULTY"' Dear Reg1na South, Your time has come. Awesome. Tonight and throughout" the weekend, the MAN is going to be ava1lable. Awesome. L1ke rich men? He's rich and successful enough not to worry about hvmg in New Jersey. Like cute men? He's rich and successful enough not to worry about living in New· Jersey. He likes loving, sensual yet tough women. Women who aren't scared to hit back. Women hard enough to make him feel like a man. Awesome. Like guys who won't take sh--from a woman? Awesome. He"s 5-feet 11-inches of jogging, sweat­ing, macho masculinity. Awesome. Want this man? Can't blame you a bit. He's available and he's ....AWESOME.  ATTENTION all NO & SMC women: Yes­terday was Rolfee Powers 21st birthday. Be sure to help him celebrate th1s weekend: put a kiss on that 1rresistable smiling face or call 8639 to wish h1m a Happy 81rthday. Remember Roily: Morality IS BORING!"" Roily, If I knew you had an ~rres1stable face 1 m1ght g1ve you a birthday kiss. Un­fortunately, I actually know what you look like. Happy Birthday anywayl (No offense to your VIsiting parents!) Your favor1te SMC chiC Marilyn: l"m so sorry I got you wet the other n1ght. To help you dry of! I would have happily blown on it. Uncle Ryan Andy, I finally remembered. Thanks for your Insights, have a great weekend with your parents. Suzanne Dearest Ryan, Congratulations on this, your first Innocent personal. MBB: Thanks for be~ng a great roomie. Love, Me To the God-Quad on 3rd floor Howard Pete G. Rock: You're almost great! The Blonde Goddesses of 2-N BP ..  
Tex•~-~81ru~ooanta 51-55 cplculator 1n ,olflt'~eQgineering auditorium during last semeiler"s finals. My name 1s scratched in ori the back. Please return. John at864 ~J~fdc::~i~~g~t~f~~:~~~~~~~:~ ~~ identify. FOUND: Pa1r of Contact lens near mam circle. Call Ted at 1187. LOST: A BLUE AUSTRIAN LODEN COAT AT BRIDGET'S ON THURSDAY NIGHT. REWARDIIII CALL MARY AT 284-4762. Lost/ Whoever borrowed the scale from  usual. Phil at 8278. ·· ······················ ···· · · ········ FOR SALE USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027E. Wayne(One block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­tion.) ·································· Trntable:DUAL 1241 &-only 3 yrs. old,one owner, call Jim at 277-2349  HELLO KATHY SULLIVAN!! Welcome Mr. and Mrs. Sullivan! The Society lor Creative Anachronlamwill hold an organizational meeting next Thursday, Feb 25 in LaFortune little theater. For information call De~rdre at 8013 or Kent at 232-1685. The meeting w111 be at 7 p.m. All are welcome I LIZ;My sex1est scope in 244 PW." HAPPY 21st.See you at CORBY'S Always & Forever. GO Jr  EUGENIE(a/k/a Liz Ellery) SILLY BOY When can we share another FUDGECICLE HEY LITTLE RAY OF SUNSHINE! IT'S FRIDAY-I LOVE YOU-STAY PURE. FRUITCAKE Hey John B., El Marko IS PERMANENT, D. B.  Tonight ...The New Jersey Sex Machine. ALEXANDER J. GLOCKNER Ill. Awesome. Call him Alex. Call h1m often. Call him awesome. Call him at 283-3258. Ask for Alex. AWESOME. Call if you're woman enough. AWESOME. Dear Regina North, You had your chance. Wasn't he AWESOME!! What????? Some of" you didn't get a chance to call??' Well, this is your big chance. Another Night!!/ Yes. one more .weekend to call the MAN II AWESOME!!!!! Call him Alex. Call him often. Call him Awesome. Call him at 283-3258.  Jack, You deserved be81 dancer, and 1"11 make good on my promise--you'll see ... Mike: here 1t is, a non-personal personal. Please do not take anyth~ng sa1d here personally, but personally, clean per­sonals aren't personable for a personal person like you. signed by hired( but per­sonable) paws .......................................................  
the Field House please return 1t as it is cru­ HAPPY BIRTHDAY LIZ BLACKMAN !  Hey John 8.,  AWESOME  Stone Stoney: We love you too, does this  
cial to work ongoing there. No Questions.  -you Acctg. throat. Have a SUPER GOLD­ Nice V. D. card!  mean  we  also  get  golf  shirts?  Nice  
LOST:GOLD CHAIN. Extreme sentimen­tal value. If found please call Mark-3895­ TICKETS  EN 8-DAY. MMJ Want to go to the Mornson Schwartzer  I hope you get as much lip as the envelop got!  What will go over in the BATCAVE on Friday night?  haircut--mom and dad will love ill Who else?  
REWARD. Thanx.  Concert. Will do anything to go ... 1nclud1ng  Only the Shadow knows for sure!  
LOST: A 14K GOLD CROSS FROM A  WANTED: 4 GA tickets to the DePaul  sleep w1th you! Call Mit~ie Burke-Sweater 9344  Ahh, The TINKELERS of 9-C Grace  Mike: here rt is, a non-personal personal.  
NECKLACE; IN GYM 1 OF ACC. IF  game ... Call Sandy at 272-4683  
FOUND PLEASE CALL 283-1772. THIS IS OF GREAT VALUE TO ME. LOST and nowhere to go this Sunday??? See ANN BOURJAILY at 3 p.m. Sunday in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre at Saint  I will g1ve ANYTHING for 1 or 2 GA"s to DEPAUL. Please call Alex at 6931. I would give an ARM AND A LEG for DEPAUL GA'S Call Alex at 6931.  Ah, K-slug, you finally get your personal. How·s your ankle? Hope 1t feels good(well) you don't want to get foiled"" again! Hey sweetness, thanks for being your dev1ant self. I'll miss you and the ··chair"" next week. Know what I'm sa yin'?  The V.D. Party was SEX-ellen!. At least it was for BUDDA. MARK AND JOE, Thank you for the fish.  To the Non-preppy God: Thanks for the flower-1 was surprised! Unfortunately, your identity remams a secret; could you enlighten me? The Preppy Goddess  Roily, If I knew you had an ~rresistable face I m1ght g1ve you a birthday k1ss. Un­fortunately, I actually know what you look like. Happy Birthday anyway! (No offense  
Mary's. LOST: A size 42xl London Fog overcoat at Erskin C. C. last Saturday mght. I have your 44reg coat. Call Emmett at234-6298 LOST--SHARP CALCULATOR PLEASE CONTACT BILL AT No.8629--REWARD LOST: One stinky finger in Misha­waka/Cinema Arts area. Contact Stinky LOST: In the v1ncinity of Breen-Ph1llips, ONE BIOLOGY NOTE TAKERI Boy. are my grades hurtin'. Julia, PLEASE transfer  Desperately need 2 to 4 G.A. tix to DE PAUL game. Call Peter at 8456. Need up to 5 DePaul G.A. tickets. Call John at 1391. I Need 2 or 3 GA,S FOR DE PAUL PLS. CALL JIM X8771 I NEED TWO DEPAUL GA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM ANY AFTERNOON AT 1377 HELPII I DESPERATELY NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S!! CALL BOB AT 1647  I THINK YOU DOl the fiend ROSTOMAN SEE MY BEARD-AINT IT WEIROI TIM: I hope you have a MEGA WILD 19th! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Love, Michele A KNIGHT AT THE PUB... A K of C PARTY THIS FRIDAY AT9 ANOTHER K of C PARTY HAPPENS TONIGHT-9prn AT OUR BUILDING  We also loved the dish, The rocks were really neat, And the pizza was a treat. Valentines Day was a great surprise Be­cause of you two wonderful guys! LOVE, SUSAN AND SHEILA P.S..Put on your APRON, MARK! Only 2 weeks to goI Dear Linda Colarossi, You were ravishing at dinner on Tues. mghtll Thanks for making our four years here complete. How "bout an encore? TWO HAPPY SENIORS MOLARITY Yes Molarity fans, if the da1ly stnp JUSt can't sat1ate your appet1te for campus  To the sun-burned Golf God: What more need I say? And what happened to all those curly locks? Thal"s what happens when one has a ew beers and comes across scissors. Wait til Angel gets ahold of you-ROTC's never looked so good! By the way, thiS IS your charming personal. Could we meet somewhere for say 5 minutes, look each other over and see what we think? I hear you look gratin navy and have a fet1sh lor earrings, correct grammar and purple! Goodmght. sweet dreams. say your prayers. You'll miss me but I'll m1ss you more. Love, your sym­biotic algae  to your visiting parents!) Your favorite SMCchic Manlyn: I'm so sorry I got you wet the other n1ght. To help you dry off I would have happily blown on 11. Uncle Ryan Andy, I f1nally remembered. Thanks for your 1ns1ghts, have a great weekend with your parents. Suzanne Dearest Ryan, Congratulations on thiS,  
back into 10281  humor, then you s1mply can't be Without  Max and Sue went to Purdue To show  your hrst innocent personal.  
Need MANY DePaul G.A."s. 1"11 do almost anyth1ng to get them. Call Dan at 8608 anyt1me.  A KNIGHT AT THE PUB. .. A KNIGHT AT THE PUB... A KNIGHT AT THE PUB TONIGHT AT THE K of C BUILDING, 9pm.  the latest collections by Michael Molinelli, published by world-renowned publish1ng house JuniperPress, e1ther Don't Make a Right  them how to party Max drank a keg and broke h1s leg OUCHI (I'm a poet and I don·t know it)  MBB: Thanks for be~ng a great roomie. Love. Me  
FOR RENT  need 3 DePaul t1x badly. megabucks. call Peg at 3723.  Will  pay  SARAH ZAPPIA IS A TOP LINE SPOFITS WRITER!!!!! s1gned-an international JOUr­ or last year's smash best-seller, On the Road to Selling Out. Both books are sh/1 available 1n the Notre  Dan Keusal and Friends -tonight 9:00 at the Nazz  To the God-Quad on 3rd floor Howard Pete G. Rock: You're almost great' The Blonde Goddesses of 2-N BP..  
NEED  DEPAUL  TICKETS  nalist  Dame Bookstore for the bargain pnce of  Dan Keusal and Fnends -tonight 9:00 at  
Will pay$$$ ffor up to 8 GA's, Call JOHN  $2.95.  It  makes  a  great  g1ft  -and  the Nazz  Jack, You deserved be81 dancer. and I'll  
Available  for  next  school  year  and  3430  ANN  BOURJAILY...  ANN  BOURJAI­ available in boxed sets too (of 200). Act  make good on my promise--you'll see..  
summer--two five bedroom houses. 234­ L Y....  ANN  BOURJAILY....  A,NN  now!  ATTENTION all NO & SMC women: Yes­ 
2626  Got ROYALLY PIMPED at the Lottery.  BOURJAILY....  SUNDAY...3  P.M .... IN  terday was Rolfee Powers 21st birthday.  
4 bdrm house for rent.North shore.$275  Need 4 (FOUR) tickets to the MORRISON SCHWARTZER and the TOXIC  MOREAU HALL'S THEATRE...SMC  LITTLE  MANDATORY BOSTON BUS Meeting THURS. 2/25, 7 p.m. 1n LaFortune Little  Be sure to help him celebrate this weekend: put a kiSS on that irresistable  
mo. utilities incl. Available Summer and/or fall 1982. Parkovash. Call Patty 3193228735 call refunded  WASTES Concert on March 3. Will pay mega-mondo-big bucks. Call D. Treemont 9567.  Did you miss the Christmas sale too? POTTERY SALE FRI., LaFortune.  Theatre. Bus Leaves the 12th, Ad Tnp, Refresh-$110. Money due at meeting. MUSTATIENDI  sm11ing face or call 8639 to WISh h1m a Happy Birthday. Remember Roily: Morality IS BORING!""  I'm glad you didn't break a leg last weekend bull hope you do thiS weekend! Your room1e  




Sports =/=l=r=i=e~ifl~s====::;::===========Fr=ict=ay=,=Fe=b=ru=a=ry=I=9=,1=9=s=2=p=ag=e=I=I 
continued from page 20 cynical crowd in any arena, foreign or domestic, would their teammate Moyar at the nation­qualify," added Kelly. only worsen the growing pains the Irish already suffer. als. Dziabis is running only in his The Irish are looking forward to 
program, and it may ultimately force it out ofbusiness. 
best event, the 600. and only needs continued improvement as the year
It hasn't happened yet, but then that's probably be­That in itself is sad enough, especially given the to cut one-half second from last goes on. "We've worked well, we've cause crowds at most Irish games this season have beenstrides women's athletics have made within the last five weeks time in order to qualify. trained well, and we're better than very "in" to women's basketball. There are few strag­years. But what seems to be even more alarming is that Senior tri-captain Doyle, before," says Kelly. "We'd like toglers in most women's crowds, so fans for the most partthe stigma may attach itself to other programs as well, however. is competing in four prove that with some results." 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Michigan basketballtickets arc still available at the second floor ticket office at the ACC. The game will be held in the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7. Tickets arc priced at 14 and S6. -The Observer 
Skitripsto Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the win­ter months. are being sponsored by the Student Union. Busses depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at 11 p.m. Bus tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for S2.50, or on the bus itself for S3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental are available -The Observer 
Saint Mary's sportsthis Saturday include a basketball game against Indiana University/Purdue University at Indianapolis, a fencing match at the ACC starting at 1:30 p.m. and the swimming team takes on Saint Mary's College ofthe Woods at Clay High School starting at 1 p.m. -The Observer 
The Sportsmed Roadrunners Club wm 
have its first dinner meeting tonight at 6 p.m. A special running film will be shown and a buffet dinner will be served at S4 per person. Reservations can be made at 237-7696. -The Observer 
are understanding ofthe plight oftheir favorite athletes. 
and that would indeed be a shame. It would be a shame for programs like Notre Dame's, It will be interesting to see how tomorrow's crowd 
which, despite its youth, is on the verge ofturning into a reacts, provided, of course, that the Sports Illustrated 
prime: contcndcr for the national title. Taunts from a article hasn't already chased it away. 
~........... 


******************* ••••••••••• 
A Reminder






EARN 
from 
SELECfiVE SERVICE



BUCKS 
If you are a male citizen. or alien residing in the US.. you must 
register with Selective Service within 30 days ol your 18th 

The1lbserver 
needs Design Assistants. 
birthday. 
If you were born in 1960, 61, 62 
or 63 you should already hav.e registered. If you have not. you should do so as soon as possible 

t--One night each weele 

t---.P.xcellent working conditions 
There is a grace period for late 
registrations without penalty

......,_Fringe benefits in effect through February 28. 1982 
You may register at any U S. 
Post Office 

-Goodtimes 

t---Learn the newspaper business 
Selective Service Sy•tem 
Registration Information Bureau Washington, D.C. 20435


CallMIKE 239-7471 
• ••••••••••4 

Applications are now 
being accepted for EDITOR -in-CHIEF, DOME 1983 
~ :, 

1 
H Interested persons should pick up information at Student Activities Office 
jl 

by Friday. · 
-'}0Wffffffrfrd?71'4 .... WJ/r?@'ffff~ff/h'rr//..0'ffffffffr&u/AW/ff40@$ ro~l~i':m:~I'EZ!:m::~~~~:m::~m . 
Central Collegiates 




Irishrun to championships 
season, are still out with injuries. events in order to prepare for the
ByEARLRIX Ribera is recovering from pentathlon in later meets. Because
Sports Writer 

pneumonia; Cannon separated his he is running the high hurdles, shot­shoulder in a fall on the ice and will putting, and long jumping in addi·
Coming off an outstanding pefor­be out for at least four weeks. tion to pole-vaulting, a qualifying
mance at the Big State Champion­Despite the injuries, the Irish will vault will not be a piece ofcake.

ships, the Notre Dame track team have more healthy bodies than last The Irish have already qualified
travels to the prestigious Central week when they turned in the finest Bell, McCloughan, Dziabis, Doyle,
Collegiate Championships (CCC) in team performance in several years. Cannon, Dillon, and Caron for the
Madison Wisconsin this weekend. This season as well as the track ICAAAA championships. They will
The Irish will be part ofa 25-team. program as a whole is definitely on try to add some more to this already
field that includes Michigan, Eastern an upswing. lenghty list this weekend. The Irish
Michigan, Southern Illinois and Wis­Last week the Irish broke two did not even bother to send a team
consin. These four teams are ex­pected to vie for the team 

school records and Jim Moyar to the ICAAAA's last year. championship, with Michigan 
qualified for the NCAA champion­Those hoping to qualify for the shaping up as the favorite. 
ships in the 1000 en route to a third ICAAAA's this weekend are Jacques place finish in the Big State Cham­Eady in the 600, Mitch Van Eyken in 
Sprinters Greg Bell and Phil pionships. the 440, Phil Gilmore in the 60, Greg
Gilmore return to the lineup after "We'd like to score as many points Bell in the long jump, and Chuck
missing last weekend because of in­as possibleand qualify as many Constable in the high jump.
juries. Tim Cannon and Bill Ribera, people as we can for nationals," said "Jan Kania and Ron Hyde are
two of the Irish standouts this Irish sprint coach Ed Kelly. good, steady, consistent workers," Both Paul Doyle and Steve Dziabis said Kelly. Kania hopes to qualify for are close to NCAA qualifying stan­the ICAA's in the 600 and Hyde dards. Doyle need to pole vault 5.10 hopes to do likewise in the 880. "If
...Troubled 
meters and Dziabis needs to run Steve Chronert vaults the way he's 
1:10.45 or less in the 600 to join capable of vaulting, he can also 
!<! 

0
MISS. Offshore Caterers ~ sp~a~~:~~onnel Consultants 
~ Complete Offshore Rig Crews and Food Service ~ Also Crew Boats, Marine Personnel & Food Suppli,..e~s,og;.,!i,§j~; 
601-601­762-762­
MISS.OFFSHORE EMPLOYMENT AGENC)', INC. 
3222 PA'5CAOOULA STREET PASCAGOULA, MISSISSIPPI :J9567 
c. 

' .

It s commg .... 
S€niOR l=oRmal "ast1meCjoes By" 

April17, 1982 Palmer House Chicago Watch your mailbox or LaFortune for details 
I·~ f I ·~ 

GRAND OPENING 
CELEBRATION REDHOTJAZZ 



OIJG&a I'ORIIIJ.&Bll 


Friday, February 19, 1982-page 12 
t t Please return the plant th'at is missing t t from the Student Offices main desk. t t Description: 5 plants in a gold rimmed t t pot with cattails and & a lavender 

, silk flower. This was a birthday gift t ' with sentimental value. Return in t t person or call and inform the Student t t Union ofitswhereabouts. t 
~~~~~~~~~~~._..~~~~~-~· 




EASY RIDER 

the Irish take on Michigan State tonight. See Mike Olenik'sstoryonpage 16. (Photo byjobnMacor) 

HeavyWeightchampionship 
Cooney-Holmessetnewdate 
NEW YORK (AP) -As expectea, the Gerry Cooney-Larry Holmes World Boxing Council heavyweight championship fight, originally scheduled for March 15 at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, Nev., has been postponed until June 11 because of torn muscle fibres in the challen­ger's left should~r, 
But promoter Don King said that Holmes won't sit back, waiting for Cooney's injury to heal. 
"He will have an interim fight," King said. "He's a fighting champion and will continue in that vein." 
Clwtk out flee 

King mentioned Jimmy Young, Randy "Tex" Cobb or Larry Frazier as possible opponents for Holmes, who left Las Vegas Wednesday to return home to Easton, Pa. 
Cobb, however, is recovering from a broken arm and is unlikely to be available for a March or April date against Holmes. 
Cooney's injury was diagnosed by Dr. John Bergfeld of the Cleveland Clinic as "a partial tear and weakness in the muscle fibres in the back part ofhis left shoulder." 
OAKROOM CAFE 
bt Swtk 'OUtbtg Hale'& 'PCUJ C~e 
For a late nite snack 
Nightly Specials 
Com lete with a n~w jukebox open Mon.-Thurs 9-12 am Fri.-Sat. 9-l am 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)
I •' . GREAT WAll Special 
1 
l Chinese t7 Amer1can Restaurant Great Chinese t t & Cocktail lounge & t t Banquet rooms auailabfe Banquet &group rates auailable American Buffet ! 
t First time in South Bend, try our ' t New Szechuan Style Cuisine--for only t t the best Chinese food you've ever had. $2.99
_______________jt 

! Th~o;:,~~~~~; ;;'~:i~~u~~ ~a':..':l;~~".'c~als ~: ";~:t~ •;r~~ ;~\~ ·~~: :·: t Fri.: ~~i~en~:~~t~~e~~:~:~u;i~e~tyle w$ith oni.on r. t !
Su.......m. 

A Sat.: Great Wall Pork '
3 95

' ~!___ ' 
Deep Fried Shrimp , • ' f Sun.: Diced Chicken with Hot Pepper Sauce ~~~~~i~~~~wv .South ~ ,_. tf Sea Food Platter (5 kin1s of seafood) Roseland • 
A e Allal_)ove_Chinese soecials served with soup and non-alcoholic beverage, ::f t ' frted rtce, and egg roll. A
.. A e All abov,e American_specials served with potato, vegetable, rolls, and ofcourse • 76 '
272 73

' our antast1c 251tem seiad bar. -,---& 
~~~~.,.,.~~~.-.~~~~~ .....~ ....~~~~~~~ .... ~...., 

Cooney described the injury, suf­fered during a sparring session last month, as "very painful...a sharp pain and weakness." 
The undefeated challenger said he was not concerned about the three­month delay dulling his ring skills. 
"I want to be in the best shape I can be onJune II and when the final bell rings, I'll be champion," he said. "I'm very confident." 
...Pirates 
continuedfrom page 20 
many times earlier in the season, They scored more field goals (25­
21) than the Pirates. The point dif­ference came at the foul line. 
Rowan fouled out, and four players had four fouls each for Notre Dame, and as a result, Seton Hall got 29 points at the line, compared to just eight, on only 11 chances, for the Irish. 
Now NO travels to South Carolina 
to face the Gamecocks. 
"We've got to bounce back," said Phelps. "After a loss like this, we're looking for plusses. We'll regroup and go at it again Saturday." 
Somewhere, it the air between here and the South, Phelps and his assistants must devise a way to put points on the board. Otherwise, the games to come may be longer and tougher to sit thought than even those that have already been played. 

r 
"""' 
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 19, 1982 -page 13 
This Saturday 
Irish look to South Carolina 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Editor 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Sometimes things get confusing around here. Shirley Garrison, the secretary in the basketball office, likes to tell the story about what happenned to her. 
Asked to call Gamecock Coach 
Bill Foster at an ACC meeting in 
Myrtle Beach, Shirley dutifully 
placed the call. 
"After three rings a lady answered, and it shocked me," she says. No wonder. The lady at the other end of the phone said that Coach Foster was having breakfast, but Shirley was busier trying to figure out who had answered the phone. She knew Mrs. Foster had not made the trip. 
"I was sort of in a predicament," she says now. "I told Coach Foster about It later. but covered up saying, 'I think it was the maid,"'. 
As it lllrns out. Shirley, who was rdativdy nt:w in the oftkc, and the hotd had made a mistake that is common for people outside the state ofSouth Carolina. 
She had reached the room of 
Clemson Coach Hill Foster. 
In the rest of the world, the 
mistakes continue. They arc fre­
quent, In tact. But here, in the Pal­metto state, there is no confusion. The Bill Foster at the University of South Carolina, known to some as "Duke" from his coaching days one state north of here, and to others as "Chicken" from his present employ­ment situation, is rebuilding a tradi­tion. 
He seemed to have turned things around here. By the time the legen­dary Frank McGuire retired in I980, the Gamecock program had sunk to new lows. In his last four years, McGuire could muster only a 61-47 record. South Carolinians were not 
used  to  mediocrity,  and  even  
McGuire  could  not escape  their  
wrath.  

In came Foster, who took a team with just a modicum of talent and turned them into respectable con­tenders. Despite a tough schedule, the Gamecocks went 18-I I last season, and "Duke" was hailed as South Carolina's Second Coming. 
But the problems are far from over. The Gamecocks arc I 1-14, and rely almost totally on 6-8 sopho­more workhorse Jimmy Foster. Ironically, however, Foster has per­haps contributed as much to the problems at Columbia as he has to the solution. Earlier in the season he wa~ ~uspended by Coach Foster (no 
Swimmers exceeding pre-season expectations 
By BOB CASTELLO 
.\ports Writer 
Prior to the start of the current season, Notre Dame swimming coach Dennis Stark was unsure what to expect from his 1981-82 teams. His reasons were sound -the men's team was hit hard by graduation and the women's team was competing on the varsity level for the first time. 
Gophers defeat Wildcats 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) Min­nesota guard Darryl Mitchell led a balanced st·oring attack with 18 points as the cighth-qnked Gophers whipped Northwestern 76-66 in Big Ten basketball last night. 
Thl· victory boosted Minnesota to IH-4 overall and I 0-3 in the Big Ten. The Wildcats ftllto 7-1 Sand 3-10. 
Northwestern appeared to be put­ting togl·thcr an upset early in the cont<.·st. The Wildcats grabbed a .28­
2.2 lead with 6:4S left in the first half as they took advantage of I I Gopher turnovers. 
Missouri edges out Oklahoma 
NORMAN, Okla. (AP)-Forward 
Marvin McCrary broke scored five 
straight field goals and guard jon 
Sundvold capped the game with four 
free throws as No.4 Missouri edged 
Oklaltoma 60-SS in Big Eight Con­
ference basketball last night. 
Md:rary staked the Tigers to a I 0­
2 kad and started a lopsided halfthat 
ended with Missouri ahead 31-22. 
H<.· finished the game with I H points. 
Sundvold, combining his free 
throws with highly acuratc jumpers 
down the lane, scored 21. Sooners 
guard Chuck Barnett came back 
from a two-point first half to score 
16 more. ~r,>rward Darryl Allen 
added I 0 for the Sooners. 
Now, as the season draws to a 
close, Stark's feeling of uncertainty 
has transformed itself into a feeling 
ofaccomplishment. The men's team 
boasts an impressive 8-2 record, 
while the women have won seven of 
their 10 dual meets. 
Riding a six-meet winning streak, the Irish men host Northern Illinois this evening at 8 p.m. and Bradley tommorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial Pool. A weekend sweep would give the Irish their best record since the I974-7S season when they finished I I-I. These will be the final dual meets of the year for Notre Dame, with the Midwest Invitational next. 
"Before the season began, we weren't sure if certain spots were going to come up positive or negative," said Stark. "Fortunately, several came up positive, and it's been a successful season at this point." 
Stark has been very pleased with his team's performance in the diving events. junior Paul McGowan con­tinues to improve and produce for the Irish. This past weekend in New York City, McGowan took first in three of four diving events as the team beat St. John's and Fordham. Freshman Rich Yohon has come on strong in support of McGowan. 
Two other freshman who have tilled gaps are Brian Casey and Tim Bohdan. Casey has been a valuable addition to the breaststroke corps behind senior John \X'illamowski. Casey has also provided help in the butterfly along with his brother, co­captain Don, and sophomore Dan Flynn. 
Bohdan has performed well in the backstroke along with juniors Glenn Battle and Louis Bowersox and freshman Paul Benz. 
Stark is content with what the Irish women have accomplished this season. 
The keys to success have been seniors Jeanine Blatt and Kathy Latino, junior co-captain Jean Mur­taugh and junior Teri Schindler. Blatt has been unbeatable in the lon­ger freestyle events, while Latino, Murtaugh, and Schindler have been very consistent in the butterfly, the shorter freestyle events, and the breaststroke, respectively. 
Freshman divt·r Anna Marie Fur­leigh has progressed rapidly to complement senior Sue O'Laughlin. 
relation) for "disciplinary reasons unrelated to basketball." But the suspension took its toll, on the court and off, and Foster was allowed to return to the squad. 
The Gamecocks leading scorer and rebounder, Foster came close to single-handedly upsetting San Fran­cisco in a nationally-televised game earlier this year. 
By contributing about 16 points and nine rebounds to every contest, Foster has become invaluable. He is, perhaps, more vital to the South Carolina attack than john Paxson is to Notre Dame's. When he is on, so are the Gamecocks. 
"It's never easy to win at Carolina Coliseum," Phelps says. "This year will be no exception. South Carolina's record is deceptive, be­


·.. ,\
cause they've played a tough schedule, as usual. 
"We still think we have a shot at an NIT bid. Last night's game helped us a lot, and we need this one as well. Every game is important now, but we have to prove we can win on the road in a tough arena. This is our chance to do that." 
Gerry' Cooney's fight with heatl)•weight champion Larry•
The Irish will have to contend 
Holmes waspostponedby three months until Cooney's left shoul­
with a number of players besides 
Foster tomorrow if they hope bolster their standing with the NIT people. Kenny Holmes and Brad Jer­genson arc tough upfront. The soph­omore tandem rank second in scoring and rebounding, respective­ly, on the team, and offer a lot ofhelp when Foster is held at bay. 
At 6-8, 6-8, and 6-S, the Gamecock frontline is comparable in size to Notre Dame's. But they make up that height disadvantage against most teams by sheer determination. 
"They don't have much talent, and they can't do many things excep­tionally well," confesses CBS's Billy Packer. "All they can do is beat y.ou. This team hustles and works and digs like none I've seen anywhere." 
The backcourt features local hero Harold Martin, a 6-3 shooter who's averaging just under I 0 points per game, and 6-0 point man Gerald Peacock. 
der can proper(y heal. ( APPhoto) 



... 

SO FAR BEYOND ANY YOU'VE EVER SEEN THAT 
---PLUS--­
on the same program 
W£ WARN YOU 
Don ·r Ear Be/or~ You See Th1:, Strow 
And You 11 Have Nnttung To Lose 11 
-~ 

The Observer -Sports Friday, February 19, 1982-page 14 
' 'Towering inferno'' 



Blab lights Indiana's fire 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -ly way I can play that role is if I learn nesota. Blab held Gophers center 
Uwe Blab is 7-foot-2 and 230 to play good defense," Blab said after Randy Breuer to nine points, the first pounds, crowned with a shock of a recent game. time in 26 games he had scored less flaming-red hair -the "Towering A key to Blab's development has than double figures. At the same Inferno" of Bobby Knight's Indiana been his ability to learn. He earned time, Blab scored 18 and had 8 Hoosiers basketball team. straight A's in his first semester at In­rebounds. 
Blab, a freshman, was recruited diana, and he wants to emulate his "He could be very good down the out of Effingham, Ill., where he was father by becoming an attorney, road," Knight says, "if he continues attending high school as an ex­specializing in international law. to develop his understanding of the change student. The native of For now, though, he would settle requirements to become a first-rate 
Munich, West Germany may have for being able to enforce Knight's college center and the amount of provided the tinder Knight needed law. Blab has added a good measure work it takes." to set his defending national cham­ofmuscle to the Indiana lineup since Although not a great jumper, Blab 
pions afire. becoming a starter recently. His appears to possess most ofthe other 
"I'd like to become an intimidat­average of 16 minutes played is tools required of a quality big man ing center," says Blab, whose name growing with each game. -good instincts, intensity, strength is pronounced "blop." His best performance was in In­and reflexes. He lacks only ex­
"It'd be great ifl could, but the on-diana's 58-55 upset victory at Min-perience. 
He went to Effingham as an ex­change student after playing there with a touring German team. He played two years for Effingham

JOIN US INTHE LITE BEER 
Coach Jim Maxedon, scoring 1,306 points and blocking 250 shots, before coming to Indiana. 
"I don't think my problem has been a lack ofconfidence, but over­confidence," says Blab, who speaks English with hardly an accent. "I'll have a good game and come back with a bad game. The next few games I have just got to work my head off." 
Blab finally put together two good performances, coming off the vic­tory over Minnesota with a solid job in Indiana's 73-60 victory over Il­linois last Thursday night. He had eight points and six rebounds in 32 minutes of play against Illinois. He also blocked four shots and had five assists. 
Blab's early development was hurt by a deep thigh bruise sustained in a game against Colorado State last Dec. 11. He missed two weeks and three games before returning, out of shape and well behind his teammates. He still wears a football thigh pad taped to his leg to protect the bruise, which is nearly healed. 



SUPERSTARS COMPETITION 
Fencers host Michigan St., Northwestern 

ENTER THE LITE BEER SUPERSTARS SWEEPSTAKES 
By BILL MARQUARD 
Sports Writer 

6 GRAND PRIZES 20 SECOND PRIZES 
Pair up with Lite Beer Celebrities in our special Lite Beer Backyard Game Set. A complete 
The IL ;h men's fencing team

Superstars Competition and see a television taping of assortment of backyard sports The Superstars program. Six days and five nights for two games. Includes badminton, 

places its spotless 17-0 record and in Key Biscayne, Florida. volleyball, croquet and 22-match winning streak on the line 
horseshoe sets by Sportcraft. tomorrow when it plays host to

6 FIRST PRIZES 
Northwestern and Michigan State in 

AMF Whitely Electronic Exercise Machine. Measures 1000THIRD PRIZES 
a 1:30 p.m. triangular meet at the

body responses as you exercise. Features: pulse rate A Lite Beer Superstars tennis visor. 
ACC.

and work load monitors, timer and more. 
The Irish scored an impressive 23­4 win over the Spartans in their first

THE OFFICIAL BEER OF THE SUPERSTARS 
meet of the season and-own a 36-10 series edge. The Wildcats, who were 21-6 victims ofthe Irish last year, are

OFFICIAL RULES 



r-----------------,
NO PURCHASE REQUIRED on the lower side of a 16-4 series HERE'S HOW TO ENTER: 
record. Yet, Irish coach Mike DeCic­

1. On an official entry form or plain p1ece of stamped envelope to: Lite Beer Superstars THE LITE BEER SUPERSTARS 
is wary of any letdown at this

3" x 5" paper. hand pnnt your name and Sweepstakes Wmners List. P0. Box 6621. co address. Bla1r. NE 68009 SWEEPSTAKES ENTRY FORM point in the season. 
2. Mail your entry in a hand-addressed en­5. Each of the SIX \6) Grand Pnze tnps for 2 "We took last weekend off and velope no larger than 4Va" x9W (#10 enve­to Key Biscayne. Forida includes round tnp lope)_ to: Lite Beer Superstars Sweepstakes, a1rtare to and from w1nner's nearest major (Please Hand Print) scored big wins over Clemson and 
PO. Box 3038. Blair. NE 68009 airport. 5nights hotel accommodations and Wayne State the previous twomeals. Grand Pnze travelers must agree to Name
3. All entries must be received by April 30. depart from and return to the1r home on the --------------------------weekends," said DeCicco, who is 1982. Enter as often as you wish, but each dates specified by the Miller Brewing Com-Address__________________________ 
guiding the Irish fencers for the 21st

entry must be mailed separately Winners pany We est1mate that the 5-day trip w111 will be determined in arandom drawing from take place between December 1, 1982 and c· S z-year. "With Wayne State coming in­
among all entries rece1ved under the super-April 30, 1983. Grand Pnze travelers w111 lty___________ tate_______ 1P-----­
to the ACC next Friday, we have to

visJon of the D L. BLAIR CORPORATION, an attend a taping of The Superstars Competi­
lndependent judgmg organization whose de-lion Grand Pnze travelers must agree to pa1r Telephone-'-_....L.._____Age ___ be very careful that the team is not cisions are final on all matters relat1ng to thiS up w1th L1te Beer Celebnt1es and compete m 
looking ahead or behind.

otter light sportmg activities 1n Florida such as 
4. This sweepstakes is open 10 residents of tennis, sw1mming. soccer and basketball 1state that 1am of legal dnnking taping o!The Superstars program "With most of our schedule be­the United States who are of legal drinking Skills. aspnnt run. adistance run. bowlmg. age in my state of residency and 6 First Prizes-AMF Whitely 
hind us, and only two weeks before 

age 1n their state at t1me ol entry. The Miller rowmg, golf and an obstacle course. Grand hold no interest in an alcoholic Exercise Machine. Measures 
B · c Ph·l· M Pnze travelers must be 21 years of age or b 1 the Great Lakes Championships, we 
rewmg o., 11p oms, Inc .. their dis-older at time of trip. No substitution of pnzes everage 1cense. body responses as you exercise 

J!tr

tributors. affiliates. subsidianes. advertis-is permitted. Prize Winners will be obligated Mail thiS entry forrn 10 Features pulse rate and work lod<J 
have to be sure that our fencers stay ing and promoliOn agencies. retail alcoholic to s1gn and return aRelease of Liability and LiteBeerSuperstarsSweepstakes monitors, timer and more sharp."beverage licensees and the empio~ees and an Alfidavlt of Eligibility withm 30 days of 20 Second Prizes-Backyard
PD. Box 3038

families of each ARE NOT ELIGIBLE. This notification. In the event of noncompliance Blair. NE 68009 Game Set. A complete assort-The Irish women, boasting a solid sweepstakes is void in the states of Mis-within this time period. an alternative wmner ment of backyard sports games 10-4 record, also own positive series soun. Texas and Virginia and wherever pro-will be selected. A1J prize returned to the 6Grand Prizes-An expense~a1d Includes badminton. volleyball.
h1blted by law Limit one prize per family. th L BLAIR CORPORA marks over Michigan State and
Taxes on pnzes are the sole responsibility of sponsor or to e . . -trip for two to Key B1scayne. lor-croquet and horseshoe sets bythe prize winners. All Federal. State and TION as undeliverable Will be awarded to 1da to pa1r up w1th aLite Beer Celeb-Sportcraft Northwestern. The women are 6-0 local laws and regulaliOns apply. The odds of alternative winners. rity in a special Lite Beer Super-1,000 Third Prizes-A L1te Beer 
against the Spartans, including an 

wmn1ng a pnze depend upon the number of 6. The celebrities depleted m promotiOnal stars CompetitiOn and see a TV Superstars tenn1s VISOr. 
J 11-5 triumph earlier this season.
entnes rece1ved. For a I1st of major prize materials Will not necessanly be persons 1 No purchase reqwred Vo1d where proh1blted by law. Off'c'al Rules on back wmners. send aSEPARATE. self-addressed. competing in grand prize competitions ~ -----------------They are 4-2 against the Wildcats. 
.... 
The celebntles deptcted in promoltonal matenals wtll not necessanly be persons compettng tn Grand Pnze competttion. ©1982 Miller Brewtng Co., ~Wts. 


Ih~r.====================================== 

T0 d~x•l:.===============F=r=ict=a=y=,F=e=b=r=uary==I=9=,=19=s=z==p=a=g=e=1=s 
Molarity 
... I llf ~5 ~T l'HE" RUPE:!>T PERSOIJ... I 
CctJL.I>N'T 8HIEV£'" lfEO 
5~1D 

I'M A/..MOST ·[M Hl'3 /U/6-{j}<jT 7HRfJ/J6H,51R. FATHeR. WtWE/l& WHAT 15 7Hc sePAMTC/lfJ/JRI/oKiA 5/mSOI<5 P£-7YPHOO/o/2D ~ 


Simon 

YE5... I'N C"A'Pl~IN ... R\{,1\T.... 1\IAT'!> WHY
HO. MOM,?A~ERILLA 
I ~AVE A~ oPEN-DOOR
fAST IS AGIRLS 
~LIC:f.
roRM.... 
I 


The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribu11e Compal'ly Sy•1dicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

ACROSS 29 Socials 1 Terse and 30 Hit hard clear 33 Brake parts 
6 Record 34 Legal wrong 10 Vestments 35 Harmless 14 Caucasoid 36 Presents 
people topic for 
of Japan vote 15March1S 39Coupd'­16 Thin 40 Astringent 17 Rules 41 lncendi­
expert arism 20 Cut 42 Bro. or 21 Metal unc. 22 Mangled 43 Paris 23 Unit of fashion 
length magazine 25 Hooded 44 Glazed merganser 45 Bible book 
26 Site of an 46 Bristle old naval 47 Small battle hackney
Thursday's Solution 

2/19/82 

I~-----------------------------· • I 
I I 
I I 
I. II 
I Live at Morris Oivic I Auditorium 1
I March 24 8pm 1
I 
Tickets 9.&0 ~ 10. SO Reserved 1 1 at Student Union Ticket Offici I Good seats are still I 
I available 1
I 
Buses available from-ma.in 1 -cuel.-1 
L---••••-•••·---------------·-•M•~ 
Michael Molinelli 
, Campus 
Friday, February 19 
•12: 
15 p.m. -Lecture, "Intercellular Adhesion of Rat Hepatocytes", Dr. Charles Slife, johns Hop­kins University, 278 Galvin Auditorium, Sponsored by Biology Department 

•12: 
I 5 -1:1 5 p.m. -Meeting, ND-SMC Italian· Club, NO University Club, ·All Italian-speaking faculty welcome 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Ethics and Politics in Hegc:l's Philosophy of Right", Professor Adriaan Peperzak, Nijmegen University, Netherlands, Memorial library Faculty lounge, Sponsored by Philosophy Department 

•4 
-5 p.m. -Terulla, 122 Hayes Healy Auditorium,-Sponsored by Spanish Club 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Spider's Strategem", An­nenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt 

•8 
p.m.· -Swimming, Notre Dame Men vs. Northern lllinois, Rockne Memorial 

•H 
p.m. -Play, "Duel of Angc:ls", O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by Second Scene 

•s 
p.m. -Ice Show, Icc Capades, ACC Saturday, February 20 

•s 
a.m. -12:30 p.m. -LSAT, Fitzpatrick Hall, of Engineering, Rooms 212, 303, 355, 356 

•11 
a.m. -Swimming, Notre Dame Women vs. DePauw, Rockne Memorial Pool 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Fencing, Notre Dame Men vs. Northwestern vs. Michigan, ACC Pit 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Fencing, Notre Dame Women vs. Northwestern vs. Michigan, ACC Pit 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Wrestling, Notre Dame vs. Taylor vs. Siena Heights, ACC 

•2 
p.m. -Swimming, Notre Dame Men vs. Brad­ley, Rockne Memorial Pool 

•2:30 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Men vs. South Carolina, Away, Channc:l 22 

•7, 
9:30 p.m., Midnight -Film, "A Clockwork Orange", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsort•d by Film Club. S I admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Choir Concert, Saint Mary's Col­lege Women's Choir, Wabash College Men's Choir, Church ofloretto 

•7-II 
p.m.-Talent Show, Notre Dame Student Talent Show, Mt:morial library Auditorium, Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Festival 

•7 
p.m. -Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, CCHA Game, Away 

•H 
p.tn.-"--Ice Show, k'e Capadc:s, ACC Sunday, February 21 

• 
1:30 p.m. -Workshop, Czc:slow Milo~z Workshop, Memorial Library lounge. Sponson:d by Sophomore literary Festival 

•3 
p.m. -Recital, Ms. Anne Bourjaily, pianist, Saint Mary's little Theatre, Free admission 

•7:30 
p.m.-Reading, Czc:slaw Milosz, Memorial library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore literary Festival 

•s 
p.m.-Ice Show, Icc Capadcs, ACC 


T.V. Tonight . 
7:30p.m. 16 The Muppct Show 22 l'amily Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Behind The Screen 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
12:00 a.m. 22 CBS Movie: "Diary Of A Tt·enaged 
llitchiker" 28 Saturday Night Live 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
12:30 a.m. 16 SCTV Comedy Network 46 The Renewed Mind 
Tonite: Cowboys &Cowgirls saddle upyourhawsy and ride on out to ~~Y'...ftJ:li ~iili ~~~ ·~tl~ll'~~ ~. J.'f.JJ):J.!~' 
We'll have specials for those who wear their hats, boots, and/orbandanas. In addition Bourbon & your favorite mixer ~ill be se~ved! 
Saturday nite Senior Bar willfeature the music -~= ofThe GratefulDead as we begin ourspring musical theme nite series. 
We'll be mixing snowshoes, serving free popcorn, and it will be MUG NITE! 
; 
-
50 Goal 51 Contrary girl 
55 Breaks up indefi­nitely 
58 Brand 59 Consumes 60 Vertical 61 Mountain 
lake 62 Wagon 63 Very, 
musically 
DOWN 1 Goes one better 
2 Iranian currency unit 
3 Cross letters 4 Most sweltering 5 Pressure 
meas. 6 Shy 7 Yemen port 8 Cob's mate 9 Tentative 
opinion 10 Pointer 11 Rested 12 Highland 
hillside 13 Dispatch 18 Postulate 
of Democ­ritus 19 Wargod 24 Expel 25 Vaccine 26 Turkish 

money 27 Flume 28 Complete 29 Lady's hat 30 Rear 31 Being 
done 32 Cent 34 Narrates 35 Page-wide 
headlines 37 Leashed 38 Tar 43 Near 
beige 44 Kind of trailer 45 Fruit of a certain tree 46 Effeminate one 47 Ramadan 
observance 48 Notion 49 Partly 
closed 50 Hollywood hound 
52 Fruit 
drinks 53 Costa­54 Snowman 56 Notwide: 
abbr. 57 US teach­ers' org. 


-
Seton HallPirates ravage Notre Datne 
EAST RUTHERFORD, New Jersey 
-They billed it as a battle betweeen 
Dan Callandrillo and john Paxson, 
but they were wrong. It was a mis­
match. 
Paxson was ice cold, as was the 
whole Notre Dame team, and the 
Irish lost yet again, 71-58. 
Callandrillo, easily in a class with 
Sleepy Floyd and John Bagley as the 
best guards in the East, dominated 
the game from start to finish. He 
ended up with a game high 28 
points, and, along with his Pirate 
teammates, held Paxson to just six. 
"Dan is one ofthe premier guards in the country," said Phelps. "He can do it all as you saw tonight. He was the difference out there." 
If there was a challange for Cal­landrillo, it came from Ron Rowan. Playing on an ankle twisted badly in Tuesday's practice, Roman came off the bench to provide the only firepower the Irish could muster. He led Notre Dame with 19 points. 
"We wanted to be near Paxson at 
all times," said Pirate Coach Hoddy 
Mahon "We played primarily a 2-3 
zone, but we played up front and 
matched up with Paxson so much 
that it was almost a 3-2." 
Ten minutes into the game, Mahon sat Callandrillo on the bench. The 6-foot 3-inch guard had been forcing his shots, and the resulting turnovers, along with a tough Irish defense, kept the game close. 
"He knew he was forcing it," Mahon said. "But I thought I'd sit with him and remind him. I thought he played great after that." 
"As much trouble as ·Callandrio was, Notre Dame provided more than it needed by itself. As it has in the previous two games, the "patience" offense failed them. The Irish scored just 18 points on 3 7 per­cent shooting in the first half. 
"We missed our shots, it was as simple as that," Phelps said. "We've had rebounding trouble all year, and that happened again tonight. But if you can't put the ball through the hoop, you can't win." 
As a team, Notre Dame shot 47 percent from the floor. Paxson hit only three ofhis nine shots. 
Another old nemisis rose up to strike the Irish as well. As they did so 
See PIRATES, page 12 
Friday, February 19, 1982-page 16 
Michigan State 

leerswant revenge this weekend 
back in November should be remin­
By MICHAEL OLENIK 

der enough as to how good a team they can be." EAST LANSING, Mich. -Need­They can be very good. Ron Scott less to say, the time has come for the 
.Sports Writer 

has proven time and time again that Notre Dame hockey team to show 
he is the best goaltender in the league -evident by a 2.85 goal
the big boy on the block that things 
are a little bit different this time against mark in 27 league games that easily leads the conference. His eye­

around. opening 18-8-1 record proves that
Just as they had to do last he has consistently stifled op­
weekend against Ferris State, the ponents, inluding the Irish twice. 
Irish will be out to prove that last The Spartans have also been
semester's meeting with Michigan known to put the puck in the net.
State was not quite indicative of the although their attack is considerably
play that Notre Dame is capable of 
This time, however, the Irish will find themselves on the rink with one of most consistent and powerful teams in the nation. The 20-9-2 Spar­tans currently stand second in the CCHA and rank sixth in the nation according to the WMPL radio coaches poll, and they are fresh off of a 7-1 blasting of ninth-ranked Michi­gan just three days ago. 
So, with last November's 4-2 and 
8-4 losses kept firmly in mind, the 
Irish will travel here for a tommor­
row night rematch before coming 
home on Monday for Marathon 
night at the ACC. 
Undoubtedly, the Munn Ice Arena will be jammed for this showdown between the WCHA refugees that have found life good in the CCHA. But natural rivalry and playoff 


Bob McNamara
thoughts aside, the steaming Irish 
want nothing less than revenge for 
last semester's debacle. 
Riding a five game winning streak 

McNamara; that has the frontrunners of the league looking over their shoulder, Notre Dame is in prime position to 
CCHAplayerhave the most successful season in the program's history. To sweep their remaining four games would 
of theweek assure a home playoff position, while a split by Michigan Tech this Notre Dame junior goaltender weekend would force the the Irish Bob McNamara earned Central to win three offour. Collegiate Hockey Association 
This is not say that twin wins over player-of-the-week honors for his the Spartans will come easy. Ask play in sweeping Ferris State. Lefty Smith. McNamara allowed four goals in 
"Michigan State is an excellent the series, all power play goals, hockey team, there is no question and recorded the Irish's first about that, " acknowledged the 14-shutout in four years in the year coach. "Our series with them second game. 
South Carolina 
Troubledliuly Gamecocksface Irish 

COLUMBIA, S.C.-Notre pame women's basketball coach Mary Di Stanislao calls it "jumpingfrom tharylng pan into the fire." 
In one sense, she's right. 

After running into what DiStanislao herself called a "buzzsaw" Tuesday night at Illinois. the Irish must regroup and get ready to play South Carolina, the na­tion's 15th ranked team, a team that handled Notre Dame 124-48 a year ago. 
But on the other hand, DiStanislao isn't entirely ac­
curate. 

The fires here are starting to die down, and things are getting back to normal, following some shocking revelations about the South Carolina program and its now departed coach, Pam Parsons. 
The revelations came from aSports 11/ustratedarticJ'e called "Stormy Weather at South Carolina," which ap­peared in thepublication's February 8th issue. The ar­ticle told ofrecruiting violations andghost-writing of termpapers, and charged Parsons with drug abuse and misuse offunds, b_ut those appeared mild, amidstother charges ofsexual improprieties involvingParsons and some ofherplayers. 
The result of such a tumultuous situation was the forced resignation of Parsons, and the withdraw! from the university offive ofher players, two ofwhom were starters. 
For a while, the turmoil devastated a team that at one time this season was ranked second in the country. Af­ter Parsons' resignation last month, the Lady Gamecocks lost six oftheir next 11 games, and dropped as low as 19th in the polls. 
Under new Coach Terry Kelly, a one-time assistant to Parsons, things appear to have settled somewhat. South Carolina has won its last six, moved back up to 15 in the polls, and turned its sights back toward its primary pre­season objective: a national championship. 
The question now is ... do they deserve it? 
This is by no means meant to sound like one ofthose holier-than-thou spiels that decrys the abuses that have crept into collegiate athletics. 
One might expect to read how deplorable the actions ofthe accused are, and how we at Notre Dame run such a fine institution and always stick to the rules and still get our winners. 
That, though, seems a waste of time and space, since others have already devoted their intelligence to the subject. 
There is a solution, and put simply, that is that ifSouth Carolina is guilty of the things it is charged with, sanc­tions at least on par with those leveled against UCLA and Wichita State, and perhaps worse, should be brought against the university. 
But the important thing to remember here is that no­thing has yet been proven. A number of sources have verified the alleged illegal actions ofParsons and others, but never has Parsons herself officially commented on the allegations, nor has any NCAA committee com­pleted an investigation into the matter, and imposed sanctions. 
So technically, in our system of equality and democracy, with all our innocent-until-proven-guilty philosophies, Parsons and the South Carolina program are without fault. Yet the st!gma will remain with that 
See TROUBLED, page 11 
less balanced than the high scoring Irish. Newell ds Brown is third in the league scoring race with II goals and 36 assists, while k Mark Hamway will try to haunt the Irish for yet an· other series. Hamway has made his mark in times gone by, and his team­leading 2 3 goals shows that he will be knocking on Bob McNamara's door once again. 
Gary Haight continues to dis· prove the sophomore jinx theory, as he shows 31 points for the year while anchoring down the tough Spartan blueline corps. 
As imposing as Michigan State ap­pears, the Spartans are well aware of the recent play by the Irish, ~and Coach Ron Mason sums things up as well as anyone. 
"Notre Dame is the hottest team 
in the CCHA right now with one of 
the most dangerous offensive at­
tacks around. We have a lot of 
respect for their quickness up-front 
and hope we can get them in trouble 
defensively." 
Assuredly, such a task is easiersaid than done, especially when one con­siders the success ofthe defense and goaltending oflate. In their last four games, the Irish have given up but six goals -a complete turnaround from their more freewheeling ten­dencies shown earlier in the season. 
McNamara has been the primary factor behind the defensive im­provement, but it would be foolish to say that he has done it all by him­self. The defensive pairings of john Schmidt and joe Bowie, Jim Brown and Sean Regan, and Ton;y Bonadio and Rob Ricci are beginning to jell just as Smith envisioned, and this fact clearly stands out in light of the team's recent march to the playoffs. 
On the other end of the ice, the Irish continues to flex its offensive muscles regardless of the opponent. Although Dave Poulin and his linemates Bill Rothstein and jeff Logan are contributing most visibly, each ofthe other three lines has per­formed just as effectively. 

With the addition ofJeff Perry to Smith's second line of Rex Bellomy and Kirt Bjork, Notre Dame has one of the deepest lineups in the league. Combine that with the excellent forechecking and genuine scoring threat of the third and fourth lines, and Smith has ,a solid team in every respect. 
Poulin and Rothstein lead the team with 53 and 46 points respectively, while Schmidt ranks third with 35 points in 31 games ­an accomplishment for any defen­seman. 
In all, the picture is getting brighter, as is obvious from Smith's thoughts earlier this week. "We're playing well right now, but we are going to have to maintain that con­sistency ifwe hope to be successful this weekend. It has been a genuine team effort, but that is exactly what it will take if we want to still be playing in the second and third week ofMarch." 
Free tickets are available from any Marathon dealer for this Monday's game that will begin at 7:30, and with the kind ofplay that the team is displaying, there is little excuse for not showing some much needed support. 
Inside: 
Swimmers, p. 13 
S. Carolina, p. 13 Fencers,p. 14 

~---------------­





