,Domers -page 5 
' ' 
·~.·.,
:.: 
!·:' 
.~·~-~-~ iii·-.. .. 
~ .~ 

•, 

General freed 

Commandos rescue Dozier 
PAI>liA. Italy (AI') -Police com­have been answered. It's diftkult to equipment. mandos stormed a sccond-tloor express grati t tude to all those who The leftist terrorists sl·nt a series apartment and rl'SCUl'd kidnapped assisted in his rckasc," an aide of communiqucs to Italian Anwrican ~l"lll'ral James L. Dozier quotnl the prt·sitknt as saying. nnvspapcrs denouncing Dozier as from unlkr the ~uns of his Red "We won one. It is very, very one of those responsible li>r the U.S. Bri~alks kidnappers yesterday in a good," said li.S. Secretary of State "military occupation" of Europl· and "textbook" operation that dealt a Alexandt·r M. Haig Jr., on an official saying he was hl'ing put on trial stunning blow to Italy's ft:arcd leftist visit to Egypt. before a "people's tribunal." They 
terrorist gang. Reagan made a two-minute never set conditions ti>r his release. 
Thl· raiders smashed down the telephone call to Dozier, and sent a Italian police arrested a number of door of the "pl·opk's prison" and congratulatory telegram to Italian suspected Red Brigadcs members, pounl'l'd on a gunman pointing a pis­oltkials. Dozier also talknl by hut tht· break came when the police tol at till' U.S. Army officer's head, tdcphone with his wifc,Judith, who recently cracked the Red Brigades' Italian authorities rl·portcd. has bl't:n staying with friends in "column" operating in the Verona 
"If thcv hadn't hcl·n so fast, the West Germany the past t I 0 days. She area, U.S. officials said. story wo;lld have had a dift(:rcnt en­said he sounded "marvelous and in "It was a tt·xthook operation. ding." Interior ,\1inistcr Virginio good health." She then lkw to Italy. They cracked the column, tht: Rognoni said. The gt·neral. deputy chief of staft' people talked and they li>llowcd up 
Five suspn·ts -thrn· men and for logistics and administration of every single lead. They did it right two woml·n -Wl'rl' seized in the Allied Land Forces in southern and it worked," said one Amnican apartment. in a stmknt-populatcd Europe. was scizcd at his Verona oftkial, who asked not to he iden­area of this northan Italian in­apartment Ike. 17 by terrorists dis­tified. dustrial town. No shots wl·rc tired, guisnl as plumhns. Mrs. Dozier was Police said they finally zeroed in but one of thl· suspects was treated left behind hound and gagged. on the Padua "prison," above a su­at a hospital for cuts on the head suf­The Padua assault, by a specially pcrmarkt:t, Wednesday night, but fered in a scuftk with the com­trained anti-terrorist unit, climaxed decided to wait until daylight hc­mandos, police and hospital officials a massive man-hunt by Italian police. causc a night raid might further en­

National Chairman of the Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee, ,\1ike Harrington spoke last nigbt to an attentit'e audience in tbe Library Auditorium. See story• below. (Photo by 
said. who were assisted by an undisclosed danger Dozier. The terrorists 
The lightninj.\ raid ended a 4.2-day number of U.S. Statc and Ddcnsc apparently drove Dozier straight to 
Carrie Koplin)
ordt·al for Brig. Gen. Dozier, SO, who Dcpartmcnt specialists using sophis­
see DOZiER page 3 
is the highest-ranking American at ticated electronic surveillance the NATO hast· in Verona, 40 miles west of here. 
Dozier, found bound, gagj.\cd, in stockinj.\ feet and a blue warm-up 

Harrington speaks on socialism in U.S. 
suit, was whisked oft'to Padua police 
head4uartcrs and then to a hospital By RICH COLLIS Harrington began his lecture with be allowed to deduct the cost of all the "minority" groups in politicsat a NATO base in nearby Vicenza for 
a critique of the Reagan Administra· cxamination. Oftkcrs tht·rc said the 
News Staff transportation." today. If the labor forccs, the blacks 
tion's view of the domestic Harrington held the corporations and browns, the womcns' groups,
llrst thing he asked li>r was a barber, economic situation. Claiming that
Mike:: Harrington, the national rcsponsiblc for the problems and tht· cnvronmcntalists stopped 
· who shaved off six weeks' growth of Reagan misplaces the blame for the
chairman of the Democratic Amcrica is having in forcign policy. fighting among themselves, and start heard. crisis on the welfare state, Har­
Socialist Organizing Committee, He advocated giving money to Third tlghting the corporations together,
"I ncver lost hopl· of hl'ing freed," rington referred to the President as
speaking before a full house last World countries because they will then tht·y will stop losing, he main­ht· was 4uotnl as saying. night in the Mcmorial Library "Hood Robin" who stole from the then spend the money on American tains. The framework for this coali­
In Washinj.\ton, Prcsident Rcagan auditorium, outlined the:: direction poor and gave to the rich. The real industrial products. He also strcsscd tion already exists, according to was awakened at 6:SO a.m. EST and socialism must take in the United culprit, according to the DSOC, is the:: importance of not unilaterally Harrington. The lkmocratic Party, told of the rcscut·. "A lot of praycrs States. the corporations. criticizing rebellions in countries "the miserable swamp", contains the Harrington proposes that the like El Salvador because they America. Far from perfect, it is creation of new industry is the solu­thrcatcn the status quo even though nevertheless the "Archimcdian tion to the U.S. economic problem. the liberties of the rebels arc point", the fulcrum from which the
0-Ccrime wave 
This includes a plan to give money threatened. "We arc a status quo ci>untry can ht· moved away from its to existing corporations as an in-power in a rcvolutionarv world." prt·scnt crisis. 
causesStu entConcernccntive to create jobs in high un· Finally Harrington <;utlincd the Ont· of Harrington's final com­
~ 
employment areas like Detroit. "If a DSOC's plans ti>r bringing about the ments was "Tht·rc arc people in the corporation moves to Houston," necessary reforms. The most neces­United States who arc socialists and 
d 
!!arrington said, "it should not even sary change is a coalition hctwt·en don't even know it."
By MOLLY NOLAND thl· day. and the burglars know ex­Sttlf/ lr'rlter actly where thl· students live. Alter a rash of brt·ak-ins ami gun­"The lwst method i(>r crime 
$80million battle
point robl-rit·s, students arc becom­
prevention." advises Jurado. "is to ing cotH'l'rnt·d with which gt·t to know your ndghhors so they ndghhorhoods arc saft-. can dl'tcct suspicious looking 

Medfly quarantine continues 
Thl' ma,oritv of students who live charactl'rs." otl-cunpus arl: concl'ntratcd in four But accordtng to six houscmatt·s ByjOHN RICE Urown. Jr. rductantl\' ordered pc.,ticide spraying ovn
n·grons: Campus Vkw Apartmnns. on Campeau Strl'l't (located in thl' !Itt· "'-Jort h· bst '-il'ighhorhoml." '-lortlwast :'lll'ighhorhood ). who Associated P1·ess the populous area. :\otn· l>aml· Apartments, and llni­han· lost dosl' ro ~.!'iOO wnrth ot The mnllly primarilv atwcks fn·sh fruit. with the ' l'r'u'· \ illage. \ >f thl'Sl' areas. plus valuahks in lour st·paratt· robbcrrl·~. Tattered tlags ~llll tluttt·r hesidl' the bridges ovl'r San femak burrowing bl'IH'ath tht· skins and laying eggs. other arl'as whcrl' students live. only the solution i~ nm so srmpk. Francisco BaY and along the lreeways ol Los Angeles The pesky inscl'l favors citrus lruits. appks. avocados. tht· rt·sitknts of University Village "\\'l''vt· trit'd to get to know our ( :mmty. warning motorists thl'y an· cntl'ring a :\1nlitcr­chl'rril's. datl'S, grapes. olin·s. pt·adll'~. pears and some 
arc anually conntTtl'd to the llni­neighbors." explained Chris Rigaux. rancan fruit lh 4uarantine zone. types of tomatoes. versity and eligible li>r Security onl· of thl· housl·matcs, "they arl' Although it's wintt·r, and most !lies arc dormant. Thousand~ of homl·owm·rs in San .Josl', Palo Alto. patrol. 
nice. but won't get involved. St·vcral nelicoptcrs sonh:timcs buzz O\'l'rhcad spraying a pes· .\1ountain View and nearby communitil's strippnl their According to Off-Campus Com­
times Wl' have come home at 2: a.m. ticitlc mist, as California presses its SHO million battle gardt·ns of fruit. Hdicoptcrs sprayed hundrl'ds ofmissionn Kathy .Jurado, "Campus to lind our alarm blaring; yet no Oill' 
against the mcdlly. square miles weekly and hundrt·ds ofpersons lkd thdrVkw has hardly any niml' ...it's has called the police." 
\\'orkl'rs at thl' converted l'lcmcntary school in Los homes on spraying nights, fearing tht· chemical would
prott·ctnl by its natural situation Anothn major concern of the 
Gatos (which serves as tht· command hcad4uartcrs for affect thl'ir health.
and cnclost·d structurt· ...when 
Campeau street rt·sidcnts is thl'ir rl'sidl'nts of onl' apartmt·nt go out. 
mcdlly eradication) arc optimistic that Calili>rnia is Still the insl'ct spread, south toward Santa Cruz, northcontention that it is often difficult 
their ncighbors watch for trouble." winning the war. · toward San Francisco and cast beyond Oakland to
li>r studt·nts to determine the safety
Campus Vit·w also has the ad­"Certainly ~.: f·1 ~ r·.: j),_ ·y Livermore -and even to an apricot grove in the: San 
ofa ncighborhood. "We knew the 
vantage ofa night guard. things arc • L joa4uin Valley, the state's richest farm area, and to back­
guys who lived hcrc for the past two 
When askt·d about the crime encouraging this {.;.r·~ yards in the San Gabriel Valley cast of Los Angeles. 
n._l·i \·~ •:,
years," stated Rigaux, "they told us
situation in areas otlwr than Campus they were never robbed and the year as compared ~ ·~ ,,:;; f_.? if ·~· · l'hc area sprayed weekly from the air climbed toView, spccilkally the Northt·ast nci~hborhood was safe. It's getting to last year:· said ---··· _.. _ -~·· __ --~~--....._._ ··--·-·· 
Ncighborhood, Jurado rt:sponded jerry Scribner, ~..}1" .......~.,-r-~,-, ~......:--.·'fV:"~-~~Air.l • 1.:\00 s4uarc miles. Several states -Florida, Texas and 
to the point where it's dangcrous to Georgia -and Japan imposed 4uarantines on Califor­
with "people must fend ti>r thcm­livt· in certain nc:igborhoods; We project manager. in charge of the 3 7S workers (only a 
sdves ...we (the Oft'-Campus Com­nia crops to halt the fly's spread.
hope the University doesn't wait un­fraction of the 4,000 workers hired last year to combat mission) supply pamphlets on crime 
til someone gets hurt bd(>rc they do the medfly). 
By fall, the acrial spray zone diminished, and by mid­prevention. hKk information. t'lc.. 
something." "In November ( 19HO ). we had 777 traps out, and we January, only 216 s4uare miles were bcing sprayed withhut the students must hl· respon­As a result of their frustrations caught 44 flies ... This year we have caught one tly since 
a mixture of the pesticide malathion, and then only over the current situation, the six the end ofOctober in California," Scribner said.
sible li>r choosing safe ncighhor­
hoods." ev~ry three weeks. students on Campeau Street have Scribner thought the little blue-eyed insect was
Jurado attributed the high crime 
made several sugj.\cstions to aid off-wiped out last winter. too. But in june. an infestation "The areas we stopped spraying in Novcmbt:r haverate in student houses to thl· fact that see CRIME page 4 l·ruptcd in Santa Clara County and Gov. Edmund remained dean." Scribner said.
the houses art· empty during most of 
-~ ~---.J:-:-1-~--~-----~-.­



News Brie/§ 
By 71Je ( Jbsen•er and The Associated Press 

They COUld have had New York's St. Patrick's Cat­hedral, but instead Robert F. KennedyJr. and Emily Ruth Black want to be married in a church in Bloomington, In. Kennedy is the son of the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, and Miss Black, 24, an attorney, is a former Bloomington resident. They will be married this spring at a Protestant church in Bloomington. Earlier, they had said they would be wed at St. Patrick's this fall. Miss Black met Kennedy about two years ago while they were attending law school at the University of Virginia. He is one of the 12 children of the former U.S. Attorney General and presidential candidate who was assassinated in I968. The First Christian Church, where Miss Black was baptized, will be the site ofthe April 3 wedding. The couple is trying hard to keep the wedding low key. "I don't think this is all that newsworthy. I don't know how I'm going to keep it low key -avoid talking to reporters, I guess. I'm really not trying to be rude," Miss Black said during a telephone interview -AP 
A thank-you letter to well-wishers from Andrew Pyk, the British businessman imprisoned in Iran since September 1980, was read on a national radio program in London yesterday. In the letter addressed to popular BBC disc jockey Jimmy Yong, Pyke thanked Britons for more than I0,000 Christmas cards and other messages he had received -"99.9 percent from strangers, people I don't know." He said he was "overwhelmed, cheered and strengthened enormously by the flood of kindness and good will." Pyke, 42, is being held without charge in a prison in Karaj, where his British father and Dutch wife visited him in December. He was working for an Iranian-Dutch helicopter company in Iran when ar­rested, first on suspicion ofspying and then alleged embezzlement. Formal charges have never been filed against him. Pyke wrote that he was in good shape and did not complain about his treatment. ­
AP 

A man accused of rigging a booby trap which killed a 16-year-old Lafeyette ln. you.th testified yesterday he had tried to rig the gun so no one would be injured fatally. Gary Ratcliff, 29, is on trial in Tippecanoe Circuit Court charged with reckless homicide and involuntary manslaughter in the death of Robert Dale Sullivan, 16, ofStockwell. Ratcliff said he rigged a shotgun to fire if someone tampered with his front door because he had been plagued by break­ins at his rural Romney home. "Hopefully, it would scare them. They would be able to get help if they needed it. I'm sorry someone was hurt, was killed," he said. But prosecutors contend Ratcliff had put 65 small marijuana plants in a planter on the front porch ofhis trailer to lure people around the door. -AP 
A 24-year-old man found asleep in his car on a New Hampshire interstate highway allegedly had driven more than 30 miles on the wrong side of the road, authorities said yesterday. Mic­hael Houde, ofConcord, was held at the Belknap CountyJail after his arrest on several charges. A trooper found Houde sound asleep in his car, parked northbound in the southbound passing lane of I-93 in New Hampton, officials said. Houde allegedly drove on the wrong side from Concord to New Hampton, a distance of more than 30 miles, police said. Houde was charged with driving while intox­icated -third offense, driving on the wrong side of the interstate and possession ofa controlled drug, state police said. 
Three former volunteerfiremen have been sen­tenced to jail terms for setting fires they later helped extinguish. Perry Thomas Wyrick, John David Phillips, and Ray William Kivett, all 18 and residents of Me Leansville, North Carolina, pleaded guilty last week to felony burning charges. Superior CourtJudge M.A. Mor­gan of Reidsville sentem:ed each man to four years in prison and suspended all but 3'5 days of the terms for three years. He ordered them to get mental health treatment, do 50 hours of community­service work and share payment of $4,000 to the owners ofa house and barn the three admitted igniting last summer. Wyrick told the court that at the time of the fires, he had been feeling a lack ofdirec­tion in his life and felt he had nothing to do. Kivett ami Phillips did not explain why they helped set the tires. 
Frozen water pipesat a hatchery caused the destruc­tion of some 700,000 salmon, nearly one-fifth of Michigan's stock, state officials say. Walter Houghton, superintendent of a hatchery here, said Wednesday the tlsh were in seven outdoor ponds last week when bitter cold weather froze oxygenated water in the pipes, suffocating the salmon. Engineers at the facility had t1gured that with 700 gallons of water a minute flowing through the pipes, there would not be a freezing problem, he said. "But I guess they were wrong. We've never had the sustained cold, snow and high wind we've experienced the last few weeks." State officials estimate Mich­igan's salmon and trout fishery brings in S350 million annually in tourism. 
Increasing CloudineSS today. Chance of rain or mixed rain and snow during the afternoon. Highs in the mid 30s. Mixed rain and snow today night changing to all snow towards tom­morrow morning. Lows in the low 30s. Snow tomorrow. Slowly fal­ling temperatures. The chance of measurable precipitation 30 percent today and 90 percent tonight. -AP 

A coal mine securi~v worker calls his office amid debris from the RHF Coal Mining Co. Mine Number One which exploded Wednesday kllling seven miners in Mink Ranch, Kentucky. Debris from part ofthe mines buildings is nestled in the trees. (APPhoto) 

Oesixn Editor ............... .....\laura .\lurphy Design Assistant ................... Tim farrl'll 1)'fJesetters..... ... ~tl'Vl" Burg Toni Ruthl'ft(,rd .Veu•s t'c/it()r ................ Davt.: Rickabaugh Copy EditCJrs .......... ..... Paul \1t"Ginn jol· .\1u~umc:si Rit'h Adam Features Layout ................. Grq~ Swit'r<.:z .\ports Copr Editor . ................ Ed Konrady Trpist.......... .................. Laura Degnan .'1/0 OayHdltor ................ Tom .\laclennan S.lfC Oay Hditor ...................Joe .\lusumesi Ad OesiJ<Il .................................John & Mary PbotrJ}<TU/Jber ........................ <:arric Koplin Guest Appearances ........... A Man In Black A Dog In White Thomas Aquina> John Macor  
The Observer !USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home fool ball Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year 1$1 5 per se<nester 1by wnt•ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Da<ne lnd•ana 46556 The Observer IS a <ne<n~er of The Associated Press All reproduct•on nghts are reserved Second class postage pa•d at Notre Da<ne lnd1ana 46556  

Friday, january 29, 1982 -page 2 


More than 60 people died in Agra, India when a frei~ht train comingfrom a yard anda fast trans­lndta express train collided headon in a thickfog Monday. (AP Photo) 



TEACH IN FLORIDA 
No Experience Necessary 
tmmedia1llt opec iiiQS ftlf ~uaan wtlh a a.chekn ~ in Physes. Chemay, 01 Engi...,;ng tJ 1eech OOU"S8S in science aRj ~of Nudeer PropUaion. 
-.ry $19,500 ~ lnaeaaing tJ $28,000. Must be 
U.S. Cdizen under 29 )"NN'' of age. 30 daya paid vacation 
MCh year. Free medical and denial pedwga. Oepen­benefa .mo proWSed_ 
Department of the Navy 575 N. Perii1aytvanla Street Otftce 648 OPO lndlanapoll8, IN 46204 317-269-6183 or 1-800-382-9404 

The Observer Friday, January 29, 1982 -page 3 


junior Sue Fleck enjoys the unusual "above zero" South Bend temperatures. (Photo bv Carrie Koplin) 
New Van Lines announces schedule 
New Van Lines announn·d plans NO Main Circle. Bus will pick up stu­
to run a "Weekend Entertainment dents at Gotto on way to SMC. 
Shunk· Service" that will provide A-:OS SMC 
students with transportation from, :ZO River Park Theatr<: 
Notre Dame to I00 Center, Scot­:lS I00 Center -kc House, 
tsdale Mall, University Park Mall and Boiler House flix, Hacienda 
Town and Country. :4S Scottsdale Mall 
Leaves ND Main Cirdc for: :46 China Garden 
A -I 00 Center and Scottsdale :00 Century Center/ .\1arrioll 
Mall :05 Campus 
Fridays -6:00, H:OO, I 0:00 B-:20 SMC 
Saturdays -4:00, 6:00, H:OO, ::30 llniwrsity Park Mall 
I 0:00 ::3l.Jeremiah Sweeney's 
n -University Park and Town ::3.3 Artio's Irish Pub, four Happi­
and Country n~.:ss 
Fridays -7: IS, 9: IS. II: I'i :.35 Barnaby's 
SalUrdays -'i: I'i. 7: IS, 9: IS :40 Town and Country 
11:1'5 ,...-; Ironwood-Edison 
Leaves SMC Circle S minutes aft(·r :50 Campus 
, , ,Dozier 

told him by tdephone. "At the mo­mc:nt I was rescued, a gun was pointed at me and I did not know whether that was my last moment. You must realize: how great was my fee:ling of relief when l was taken in 
points. And a chance to be with other veterans like yourself who understand and appreciate what you've done lor your counuy. 
Stop by and meet 111. Or call: 
SfC Hamilton 234-4187 
ABM Y llESEJl VE' BE ALL YOU CAN BE 
Hit the beach! 
Floridatrip decision pending 
By CAROL CAMP 
StaffReporter 

According to Student Union Services Commisiont:r John Kelly. the controversy concerning the: offering of two different trips to Daytona B":;:·!, Florida during spring break will "he completely resolved within a day or two." 
The dispute is focused upon the: efforts of the Summit travel agency to offer students another option for a Florida trip. Arrangements for the Student Union trip arc being handled by Echo Travel, because in 
Carrarafilms focus on poverty, justice 
By CHUCK ZAMMIT NEWS STAFF 
Archbishop Helder Carrara, Cath­
olic leader of the Brazilian cities of 
Olinda and Recife, is a symbol of in­
ternational social justice. ln the tilm, 
Excuse Me, America, Carrara dis­
plays his views on ways of hdping 
the poor. 

Bishop Carrara pointed out in the: 
movie that multi-national corpora­
tions favor right-wing dictatorships 
which keep wages low and viokntly 
<:nfore "p<:ace" in society, thereby 
maintaining a climate suitable for 
corporate investment. lk stated that 
both the capitalist and communist 
superpowers cannot help the less 
fortunate:. 

Many of Carrara's associates have 
been tortured or killed by th<: harsh 
dictatorship in Brazil. 

The film also briefly highlighted 
Dorothy Day, leader ofthe "Catholic 
Worker Movement," which runs 
"houses of hospitality." Day 
believed that peopk did not desire 
only food, hut often sought "human 
warmth." 

Caesar Chavez, head of the "United Farm Workers," also ap­peared briefly in the film, discussing the plight of the migrant farmworker. Upon the conclusion of the film, Kathleen M. \'feigert, as­sistant dean of the College of Arts and Lett<:rs, led an informal discus­sion in which she: stated that it is im­portant that people of the United States consider the issues that are raised in the film, such as individual and structural changes in society which can bring about greater 
Toronto 
•

stgn-up deadline 
The Student Union has an­nounced that Mondav Feb. I, will b<: the last day for stud~nts to sign-up for the March University of Notre: Dame/University of Toronto ex­change program. 
economic equality. 
"This film." said Wc:igcrt."is espe­
cially important for people at a Cath­
olic university because it's about 
four people: living out thdr Catholic 
faith." 
First impressions of the tilm were 
varied. "The: tilm madl· me uncom­
fortable," said one person. Another 
stated that Americans are afraid of 
looking at the less fortunate because 
they're afraid of looking at thcm­
sc:lves. 
The group also discussed th<: m<:c­hanisms for change. Though most agre<:d that non-violence is c:ss~.:n­tial, on<: person from V<:n<:zuda. said h<: could understand how those who resort to violcnc<: fed, and rderr<:d to the Nicaruaguan situation. 
When the group was asked: "What can we do as individuals?" one mem­ber said that there must h<: kadcrs who will gu)dc social justice move­ments. 
Another person said that it is not necessary to go to Brazil. but we <.·an begin to help the poor in the United Stat<:s. 
Kelly's words,"we just couldn't beat the price they (Echo Travel) offered us." He adds that a similar situation developed last year when Summit hired a Notre Dame campus repre­sentative to coordinate its spring break trip. When Student Union dis­covered that it had a competitor in the travel business, nothing was done bn:ause approximately twenty Notre Dame students had already signed up for the trip. Kelly readily admits that this action "hurt our trip a little hit last year. because we want to protect whoever gives us a low 
bid." 
The key reason for Student Uni­on's concern, however, is that it is obligated to enforce the mercandis­ing policy that is stated in Dulac. According to this policy, "organizations, residence halls, and individuals that wish to engage in any type of merchandising activity 
that would involvt· Notre Dame stu­dents must submit an application to the Student Union Services Commis­sion..." Additionally, this application must ht· approved by the Services Commission before any action can take place. In this instance, the: Services Commission considered bids from several area travel agl·ncies (including Summit) before dcdding which ag t ency would handle the arrangements for the trip. As Kelly stated, "They (Summit) had their opportunity-they made: a high­er bid and didn't try win us over." 
Due to limited space, Kelly c:n­l'ourages anyone: who is interested in the trip to sign up at the Student Union office: no later than the: middle of february. 


l':i .IJ. STUIJEI':il U\lUt:ll':i 1'1\BlHl\Hl ~ 
rGR \/~ lffll 
BfU~K BY PrJPUlflR DE~flr.i[) 
"A TERfHfjC RClCrl BAI':ilJ" 
fR~[)flY' Jflr.iI 2~ ~:QQ 
LHR~¥R~Q~Al~f~R¥~~~~RllR~~~ 
I~ .m 
continuedpage 1 
the Padua apartment ancr the kidnapping, thq· said. The raid lasted just 90 seconds. police said. 
The I 0 commandos, in hullet­proofvests, brok<: down the door of the four-room apartment at II :.3S a.m., polil-c said. 
They disarmed a man in the cor­ridor of the apartment, and mov<:d into a room where: four other tt·r­rorists -two men and two women -were holding I>ozkr in a tent. Police hit the man who was pointing a gun at Dozier's head with the butt of a rifle and the others gave up, police said. 
"Wonderful! Okay! Police!," they qumc:d Dozier as saying in English. "Thank you! Thank you!" 
The U.S. ambassador to Italy, Max­well M. Rahb, later rl·port<:d Dozier 
Police identified three of the suspects as Antonio Savasta and Emilio Libera, both from th<: Rom<: "column" of the urban guerrilla gang, and Cesare L~.:nardo, 22, 'from Udinc:. 
It was the first kidnapping of a non-Italian by th(· R<:d Brigad<:s in their decade of and-run attacks on industrialists, judg('S, journalists and poiticians. Both Italian officials and the terrorists th<:msdvcs said thl· ab­dul·tion was a "'quantum leap" in the attacks by th(· Red Brigades, who in 
I97H kidnapped and murdered ti>r­mer Premier Aldo Moro. 
The raid was th<: tirst time in seven years that police had dis­covered a Red Brigades hideout in the course ofa kidnapping. ln 197S. polic<: stormed a farmhouse hideout ncar Turin and rescued hostagl· Vit­torio Gancia, an industrialist. 


hand by the Italian authorities." 
'l'B.AIISPOB.TATION VJ:TEB.ANS 
[p)(lj][Ri~~ to help you consider the priesthood in the
~ 
lllllDID PAJlT-TIMI 
Congregation of Holy Cross
'l'ht Army Be1trve ur&ently a11d1 your experience h help train all the new people who are joinin&. n•, a&ood dtal for you, too. ror a 
[Q)ffi\lJ~~ Friday; February 26 to Satu~ February 27
wllkend a month plus two weeks of aaaaal trainin&, and E·S with 4 years pulls down $116 a weekend, 
7:00p.m 12:00pm 
over Sl922ayur. You'll also receive PX priviletu. lletiremeat 
[p)[L~~Moreau SermarY 
~ i 
l 
(Ri~(GJ~©1J~ by calling the \OOation Office-no cost 239·6385 

...----------------~---­
The Observer 


Wayne Williams, accused of the murders of two Atlanta black 
males, gives the "thumbs up" sign as he leaves the Fulton C<funty 
r:ourthouse afteryesterday's session ofhis trial. ( AP Photo) 
EASY RIDER 

Technical Majors: 

U.S. Steel invites you to checkout a career 
•
to management. 
D 
You're a self-starter. U.S. Steel is a company on the move, and we're looking for people with the initiative to tackle major projects and push them through to completion. 
D 
You're a fast thinker. While the clock ticks, you may have to make decisions involving the future of thousands of U.S. Steel people-and the in­vestment of millions of dollars. 
D 
You're a team player. At a dynamic place like U.S. Steel. guiding and motivating others is likely to be an important part of your career in 
management. 
Today U.S. Steel is a whole lot more than the nation's largest steelmaker. 
We're in chemicals, with annual sales of over $1 billion. We're in resource development, ready to fill industry's growing needs for coal. iron ore, ura­nium and other vital materials. We build complex structures all over the country. We offer engineering services all over the world. And that's far from all. 
Join us, and you're immediately a full-fledged member of our manage­ment team. Your opportunity for advancement is as bright as you are. 
1'V\eet the U.S. Steel representative 
@United States. Steel 
on campus: 

Fri., Feb. 19 
Money is good. Fringe benefits are liberal. And you can take advantage of a variety of continuing personal-devel­opment programs-including tuition refund. 
Visit your placementoffrce and check out the openings our representa­tive plans to discuss. But don't worry if what interests you most happens not to be on the list. Just write us with your qualifications: Dave Bates, College Relations. U.S. Steel, 600 Grant St., Pittsburgh, PA 15230. An equal opportunity employer. 
Friday, january 29, 1982 -page 4 
DCseminar provides advantages 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
News Assistant 
The annual Social Concerns Semi­nar in Washington, D.C., Mar. 13-20, will introduce Students to the workings of the federal government and will enable them to meet the na­tion's legislators. 
The trip. open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, allows participants to meet with a variety of people in government, including congressmen, legislative assistants, and alumni now working in Wash­
ington. All applications are due by 4 
p.m. today. 

In addition, participants wifl meet with several Church-related groups that represent concerns dealing with social justice. 
The seminar, co-sponsored by the Center for Experiential Learning and the Social Concerns Commission of Student Government, is actually a one-cr~dit hour course titled "Social Concerns: Government," offered by 
continued page 1 
campus students. 
These ideas include: renter's in­surance, pamphlets pin-pointing where not to live, pressure on landlords to hook up alarm systems to the police station, and patrol by Notre Dame Security. 
Despite the intentions of these students, most of their suggestions arc impossible. 
According to Security Director Glen Terry, "The Notre Dame Security rarely goes off-campus and has no responsibility to patrol off­campus residences . . . because of our Charter with the State of In­diana, we have no jurisdiction outside Notre Dame property; our only authority outside Notre Dame is that ofordinary citizens." 
Even ifsufficient funds existed for 
Security to hire additional patrols, 
their Charter would proibit them 
from doing so. 
the Department ofTheology. 
Marcia LeMay, Program Director 
for this year's trip, urges all in­
terested students to apply. Al­
though, according to LeMay, 
"applicants should have some back· 
ground of social awareness." The 
program is limited fo the first 24 ap· 
plicants, and the cost will be about 
1!200 per person. 
Greg Hauth, a Notre Dame junior, 
attended the seminar last spring and 
commcnte::J on last year's program. 
"The trip offers a broad range of ac­
tivities. We talk~d to lobby groups, 
approached congressmen, and 
asked questions about issues that 
were very important at the time, 
such as El Salvador." 
Encouraged to visit his congress­
man, Hauth was one ofseveral mem­
bers of the group that eventually 
gained a summer job in the Capitol 
as a result ofthe trip. 
Hauth, a government major, en­courages everyone to jom 'he semi­
• • • Crime 

Terrv also mentioned that it is possib{e for Security to check on vacant student houses, but only by request, at a fee, and during the off­duty hours ofSecurity officers. 
The suggestion of an alarm hooked into the police station is also not feasable because only banks can be thus connected. However, stu­dents can hook up an alarm system to an answering service:: which will immediatelly call the police if the house is being vandalized. 
Only one percent of the alarms turn out to be real burglaries, however, the police respond to all of them. 
Though the alarm system is cf. fcctive, another solution is under­way. Starting November 29th, the South Bend police installed its Com­munity Oriented Policy program ( C.O.P.) to help combat the high crime rate. The program consists of a decentralized polh.:c department with three sub-stations located 
throughout South Bend. 
According to Douglass W. Way, 
Sector Coordinator in the Northeast 
Neighborhood, "the idea behind 
C.O.P. is that the officers will con­stantly work in a given area rather than all over town. They'll become more familiar with the neighbor· 
.. 
tues-wed-tburs fri sat 
18455 South BendAve-North ofEdison; South Bend 277-05 78 
'------~~----~-------·---~-----------------­
nar.  "The  trip  is for  anyone  with  
social  concerns,  or  anyone  that  
simply  wants  to  see  if  the  

bureaucracy is working. The t'X· perience is invaluable for all," he said. 
According to LeMay, the seminar this year has undergone intense preparation. This year's program is a focus on three major areas: nuclear arms, poverty and the budget. The group will be split into four or five "satellite" groups, each focusing on a smaller issue, such as the draft, ur­ban housing, and immigration. 
Applicants for the program are en­couraged to attend Archbishop Raymond G. Hunthauscn's lecture::, "Why Challenge Nuckar Arms: Ris­king a Christian Response." The lecture is tonight, at 7:30p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Those interested in the Washing­ton Seminar should contact Marcia LeMay at the Center for Experiential Learning. 
hood and get to know the people there so they can deal with the specific neighborhood problems." 
Way maintains that the program seems to bt· catching on, but the police need more cooperation from the students if it is to work. 
One campus area which has suc­cessfully used the reccommended measure of a ntighborhood watch program is University Village and the surrounding married-student housing area. 
Off-Campus Crime Commissioner and area resident Bill Cristophcr contends that there has been no crime in the area for a few years. 
"People watch the houses when others are away," cxpla.ined Chris­toper, "If someone out of the ordi­nary walks in. questions are asked." "Christopher also encourages crime victims to usc the crime hotline for reports and questions on crime prevention. The number is 277­
6178. 
Other aids to off-campus students include storage facilities at Stepan Center over breaks, house checks by the South Bend Police when stu­dents are gone for a weekend or more, and Transpo bus services to and from Campus view and Notre Dame Apartments. 
...... ...... ... 
11am-10pm 11 am-12 mid. 2 pm-12 mid. ;Y!!!ii, 


Editorials 
Friday, january 29, 1982 -page 5 
In defense of Domers 
our alumni arc more obnoxious than the right when we find that these in­Perceptions and conceptions of defy all laws of common sense, and others. and we certainly do enjoy sights "might best come from those
Notre Dame students arc widespread most laws of libel. You just can't Tom Jackman and varit.:d. but lately. Domcrs have make statements like that about large 
winning. but nothing of the sort adults (emphasis added) whom stu­deserving of Granger's mindless dents seck out when thcv want to dis­
been taking it on the chin in the press. groups of people. especially sports drivel. Our priorities wnccrning cuss the things that m;tter most to
I'm referring. of course. to Bill fans. We do learn that Granl!cr had to Granger's heinous piece of crap in settle for going to DePaul~ and that sports and academics arc certainly no them." Opinion the Chicago Trihllllt' recently. and to D..:Paul 01~cc huilt an athletic arena 
differt.:nt from that of any other col­In other words. no students were it lesser extent it profile of ND stu­instead of a library. That'~ about it. lt.:gc or university. and for Granger to interviewed to find out what students state otherwise. especially without arc rt.:ally like. Instead. they talk to about the students who aren't mental­
dents in the itlumni publication Notrt' though. Ruy ~eyer. ND graJ and true substantiation. is not only inane the adults, who obviously haw a ly troubled, who have their heads to­
Dame Magazillt'. DePaul coa,·h. escape~ Granger's It's one thing to hold a grudge. wrath. curiously enough. but irrationaL Call it stooping to his much bcttt.:r idea of what is going on gcth..:r and arc sclf-directeJ and 
inside the minds of the childrt.:n. The motivatcJ? What about the ones who
It's another thing to air it out in level. but then again the Chicago public. It's still anotht.:r to ignore all 'Granger's all-inclu­Trihune is no doormat. picture that emerges is not totally un­aren't overly religious, or the ones 
fair. composed as it is by the obst.:rva­who don't "fear" women (Lewistenets of logic and reason, which A much less offensive article ran tions of campus ministers and rector ~oira Baker's term). or the
columnist Bill Gritnger did when he sive hatred is ridicu­in the December issue ofNotre Dame wrote a p1cce entitled, ·· It's so nice Maga:.ine, titled "What Arc Notre rectors. They arc fairly candid. and ones who aren't solely concerned 
to ~ce it Notre Dame tellm lose." lously simplistic-­Dame Students Like?" The story sets Fr. Joe Carey nott.:s succinctly. "The about their GPA'? I would venture a Gritnger. a newcomer to the Trihune. out to profile the typical Domer oftht.: social life here is terrible.·· guess that this is a fairly large per­usually writes hltnnless, pseudo­where did he get the Eighties. as if to mold a new But it's safe to say that perhaps 50 centage of the students. and that humor columns during the week stereotype similar to "tht.: '60s ac­percent of ND students never have speaking only to their confessors is
idea that we made

which appear in the news section. tivist who might smoke pot, read more than a passing Cllllver~ation not going to give you the most ac­This piece, which ran in the Sunday Rolling Stone and burn a draft card with their rector. and often times curate picture of the Domer of the
'good sport 'sound like 

magazine section, was much dif­for peace in Vietnam ... The premise thost.: that do arc discussing their Eighties. But then ugain, it's better ferent, aiming for the jugular with a a swear word ... ' is promising. but takes a hard turn to various trials and tribulations. What than asking Bill Granger. 
venom not seen since the Letters to the Editor column after a Frank But he's about the only one. Gran­LitGrotta article. ger's all-inclusive hatred is 
But let'~ not generalize. For those ridiculously simplistic -where did who didn't sec it. we should look at he get the idea that we made ···good Granger's particular bits of idiocy. sport' sound like a swear word." or Granger opens by noting his cheer at that "the important thing was a na­Notre Dame's athctic misfortunes. tional championship for the basket­because " If you like sports itt all. ball team or a ranking in the top I0 you hitVC to be hcartt.:ncd to sec so for the football team." many sports bullies and boors lose Granger is what Lou ReeJ would out. I refer to the average Notre label an "anal retentive." He stub­Dame fan, of course." Only a real bornly sticks to the notion that Notre Jerk is ''hcartt.:ncd" by the sight of Dame fans me the most outrageous, ~ecing somebody lose. but Granger obnoxious and misdirected group in has only just begun. the country. hut he never explains 
"Whatever else they learn in their why we stanJ out from the rest. In four years at South Bend, (Notre fact, we Jo not. ND fans arc no more Dame students) never 4uitc grasp the or less spirited than the next school concept of sportsmanship or the with major athletic programs. We obscure ideas of graciousness in vic­cheer hard and loud, but certainly no tory and dignity in defeat." It gets harder or louder than the next school. better (or worse). "The generally Obviously, that stuff about ·'the thuglike behavior a Notre Dame stu­Sixth Man" is a bunch of baloney. dent learns stays with him through But we do not pelt opposing teams life and reaches full !lowering as a with fish and glass bottles, and we 
Notre Dame alumnus.·' are not renowned for vandalism Wow. Somebody in the admis­
against long-time rival schools. sions office must have worded their Think of the countless incidents like rejection letter too harshly. Though this that other colleges perpetrate all we never really tind out what got un-the time in the name of "school 
r Granger's skin, he continues to spirit." make stupid generalizations which Now I might concede that some of 
'lt.OOK., ::r'H CVTrtN67H£FEPERALWP6£1ANP FEOERAL.. TAX£5'' 

How much will Nancy's dresses cost? 
WASHINGTON--Fred Fielding. 
former assistant to Nixon White 
House •·ounsel John Dean. has a 
problem. 
Fielding is Ronald and Nancy Reagun's White House lawyer. Un­der a rctJUircmcnt of the 1978 Ethics in Government Act, the Rcagans will soon have to make a public dis­closure of those gith worth more thun $35 \li hich th..:y n:cicvcJ in 1981 and those loans and liabilities over $10,000. 
It is Fielding's job to pr..:parc the gift list by May 15. ~incc Shicla Tutc. Mrs. Reagan· s prt.:ss sccrctury. revealed the other day that the tirst lady ha~ b..:cn acc..:pting dcsigno.:r clothes as gifts and loans. the pn:ss will undoubtedly study Fielding's list with an clcl·tron microscope. 
According to Tatt:. ~rs. Reagan's low-co~t wardrobe ··has done no­thing but benelit th..: industry. She ha~ derived no personal benefit." 
Thc~c little outfit~. nne cun bet. didn't com..: off the racb at J .C'. Pen­ncy or Scars. And if the first lady has received no "personal" benefit from the clothes presumably d..:signcd by Galanos. Adolfo, Bill Blass. Halston and others. who has? We've seen no press releases announcing. ·'The House of Halston has loan..:d the first lady three gowns for the next thrc..: weeks." Nor has te White House press office declared: .. ~rs. Reagan's clothes for her New Year·~ weekend at the Rancho Mirage home of Walter Annenbcrg arc on loan from Betty Barclay Sportswear. Inc. 
According to the Government Et­hics Office. whose cmploye..:s under­standably do not car..: to be identified. "Th..: first lady docs not have to publicly disc los..: clothes worth mon: than $35 if they arc on loan. But she do..:s have to mat....: public uny such girt~. If the prcsid..:nt acc..:pt~ a gift of handmad..: bnots v.orth $1,000. the ~amc requirement p..:rtains Ill him ... 
A fcv. day~ bdorc Reugan's in­auguration. \1..:xican Pr..:sid..:nt Lopez Portillo presented him.with an 

Arabian stallion. Because he hall not 
yet been sworn in, the stallion 
belongs to Reagan as a personal gift. 
Gifts from foreign nations or dig­
nitaries to the president and the first 
lady. on the other hand. arc dealt 
with under the Foreign Gifts Act. 
'The president's suit for tonight's appear­ance was furnished by 
Hart, Schaffner and 
Marx... ' 

whi,·h holds that surh gift~ arc 
property of the U.S. government. 
su,·h gifts arc only di~posablc by 
aurt1on or as the D..:partmcnt of State 
sees tit. 

Docs Fr..:d Fielding ft.:ar a full di~­
closurc of th..: R..:ag;ms' gifh thi~ 
spring'! H..: ought to. As th..: nation 
learned at a White Hous..: press con­
fcrcnc..: last Tuc~day. the president has reason to be sensitive about hi~ personal wealth. ·· I realize the publicity that has attended upon the tax returns of someone in my posi­tion," he toiJ reporters. 
~orcovcr. millions of Amcrk;tns arc unemployed. Other thou~ands have been stricken from the welfare anJ So,·ial security disability rolls. The rift between the "haves and the havc-nots" in this country seems to grow deeper C<ll'h day. 
If Fielding discloses that ~rs. Reagan has been blessed with $100,000 worth of clothe~ SI!JCC moving into the White House. the support for her husbanJ's economic pa,·kug..: could unreel. and if th..: clothes she wears ar..:. in fa,·t. not gifts but loans. what arc the pm­ticulars of th..: loan agreement'? Who g..:ts what for what'' 
Oh:oursc. we may never sc..: a Reagan television appearance followed by the credit line: "The president·~ ~uit for tonight's ap­p..:arancc was furnish..:d by Han. 
Monell Glen and Cody Shearer 
Here and Now 

SchatTner and Marx; shoes by Nunn 
Bu~ch; shin by Arrow; hairstyling by 
White Hou~e barber Milton Pitts ... " 
But let's face it: th..: Rcagans arc 
old movie folk. and they know the 
Hollywood tradition. In Scrccnland, 
if you borrow something. the payoff 
i~ a acdit line. 
It may rcquir..: Fielding's report to 
r..:veal which munufactun:rs drcss~:d 
th..: first lady for the sake of promo­
tional bcn..:fit and whkh loaned the 
merchandise ~imply for tax credits. 
\1ay 15 may be a day to watch. It 
could reveal much about the 
warJrob..: of th~: president and his 
fiN lady. And who their friends real­
ly arc. 
\ 

Editorial Board
==Ihe_-Obset:ver-__ _
__, 

/:'tlittIT· in -Chief"..'"" .. . "".John \k(irath 
Founded November 3, 1966 
l:'xecuti1•e .Veu·s l:'ditor"" . Kdli l'linl .\j}()rts f:tlitor . '""" """ ." """" Skip Desjardin 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the .Yews l:'tlitur.." .... l>a\·id Ril:kahau~o:h Photo Etlitor.. ..".-.. . .John Mal·or University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily S.HC l:'xenlfil•e Editor." " .... Mary A~nc:s Can·~ Editorials l:'tlitor.. " .. Anthony Wahon reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­.uu;.\'eu•s l:'ditor...." ...."".. ..".Cathy Domanko Features Etlitor.. .. .. """",....Gregory Swic:rcz ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business .Hmltlxer .............. """"..Rich Coppola Prmluction .llanaxer." """'""".,Michac:l Monk
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouuged. 
Controller .." ...".. .. .. " ..""""""'.Joe: Mulflur Circulation .llanager """".Tom MacLennan Atl1•ertisinx Mana,~~er""""'"""""''"Chris Owc:n .\)•stems .llmlaxer ..". " ..,Bruce: Oaklc:y
P.O. Boll. Q, Notre Dame,.IN 46556 

I
t commemorates the death ofa Notre Dame student. lt symbolizes an attitude of patriotism and duty present in the postwar Notre Dame 
By Jerry Young 
community after the United States' struggle with Spain.lt is a red granite memorial, better known for the ten­inch mortar shell that projects out of its top -giving the impression ofa launched missile in limbo. 
When a testimonial is erected to monument an event, the finished memorial is usually placed in an ac­cessible area. However, the Univer­sity has placed this red granite monument in an obscure alcove outside the south-east wing ofthe Administration Building-partially hidden by a nearby air-conditioning unit. Could such a location be ef­fective in reminding the public ofan event that involved the life ofa for­mer student? Perhaps the University does not want to "remember the 
Maine." 

On the night of February 15, 1898, the United States Battleship Maine exploded and sank in Spanish-held Havana Harbor. The Maine was sent to protect United States citizens, supposedly endan­gered by the increasing friction be­
tween the United States and Spain. 
252 men were killed in the incident 
and many others were injured.
Let us know how you feel about the 
Among those dead was former Notre Dame student, John Henry Shil­
innovative SHOWCASE Section 
lington. Shillington began his career at the
Send all comments to: 
University in 1894. His great ability 
in oration was honored by a gold
Gregory Swiercz 
medal in the Junior division of 
Elocution in 1895. He also started 
for the Fighting Irish baseball team, 
P·O·BoxQ 
Campus mail 

where he played at shortstop for three years. However, in 1897, mis­fortune struck youngJohn Shil­
We'd like to hear from you! 
lington when he traveled to Chicago for a scheduled baseball game. After the team's victory, Shillington met with some local friends and ­engaging in some extracurricular fun -didn't make the bus trip back 



with the team. This infraction 
resulted in his expulsion from the 
University. 
Following this incident, Shil­lington joined the United States Navy. His first assignment was aboard the U.S.S. Maine. From the Maine he wrote the following letter to a friend in Brownson Hall: 
I often think ofNotre Dame. I can onzy picture her daizy and in my reminiscenses ofher, a tear is often brushedaway... I suppose "Shilly" is forgotten bypeople at the old col­lege, andI don't blame them. Thoughforgotten, I shall always bold Notre Dame near and dear to me. 
On Memorial Day, 191 5, the granite memorial toJohn Shillington was unveiled by His Excellency (an archaic form ofaddress still in use in the early I900's)Josephus Daniels, Secretary ofNavy. To begin the com­memoration, Daniels was escorted from his hotel by a University cadet regiment. As he was accompanied to the stage by Father Cavanaugh and Father Morressy, Daniels was presented arms by a group of Navy cadets. As the "Star Spangled Ban­ner" was played by the band, the American Flag draped over the monument was lifted to unveil the handsome granite memorial. 
To a crowd of 1000 students, Daniels presented an hour-long dis­sertation on patriotism. "Shillington's concept ofduty to country," stated Daniels, "was one that all the men at school might well adopt as a pattern for studyofemula­tion." 
It is obvious that a commemora­tion by the Secretary ofNavy is no small affair; and a monument that he dedicates should not become so trivial that it is placed next to an air­conditioning unit in an unused cor­ner outside of the Administration Building. What is the justification of this placement? 
The answer may lie in the heavily disputed case ofthe explosion ofthe 
U.S.S. Maine. It has been speculated by historians that the ship exploded from the inside out, that the Maine was carrying wartime explosives and armaments during a non­wartime period. The U.S.S. Maine incident could be seen as a grave embarassment to the United States...something that the Notre Dame Administration might not like to have on display. 
An alternative explanation that is more presumptuou~ is the fact that John Shillington was ex­pelled from Notre Dame in 1897. This fact was never expressed at the ceremony of 191 5 and was little mentioned after Shillington's death in any subsequent writings in the Ar­chives of Notre Dame. In fact, the February 18, 1898, edition ofTbe 
Scholastic merely restated his get­
ting expelled to "...it was deemed 
necessary for him to sever his con­
nections with the University." It may 
be that a memorial to such an "eminent patriotic student" may 
become marred ifan implication of 
University expulsion was issued 
(since it is not University policy to 
admire a student that has been asked 
to leave). 
Today the memorial can be seen partially submergd in a blanket of snow. A narrow path leads back to the alcove in front ofthe Administra­tion Building and the dedication plate on its base has been dug-out to reveal its inscription (thanks to the efforts ofa dedicated reporter). However, because ofthe obscure area that the monument is in, the number ofits admirers is few. "Oh, you mean that missile," commented one student, "Sure I've seen it...but what in the hell is it anyway?!" 

'Pennies From Heaven' 
well worththe money 
P 
enniesFrom Heaven is the most from 1930's. But there's also much visually stunning motion picture humor in the film. Some of the in­I have seen in a long time. With del­congruities that arise from Arthur's icate and accurate strokes. director revery and the real world are 
delightful. As you've probably heard by now, the musical numbers in this film are unique in the way theyDennis Chalifour 
utilize actual period recordings lip­synched by the actors. But don't think that this is some kind ofone­
Movies 
joke movie. The lip-synching device provides not only chuckles but aHerbert Ross has brushed informa­motif for the central paradox of thetion over information to create a film's theme.

wonderfully complex collage of the Like the film itself, Arthur is living American Dream and America itself. 
a pastiche of the artistic products ofSet during the Great Depression the Depression. Pennies From(and that's Depession with a capital Heaven is a kaleidoscope of the

'D'),Penniesfrom Heaven tells the 
Thirties ranging from vaudeville tostory ofArthur Parker (Steve Mar­fine art to the movies. In what istin), an unsuccessful sheet music salesman trapped in an unhappy 


marriage with his less-than-conjugal wifeJoan (Jessica Harper). Con­fronted with the grim reality ofhis time, he idealistically searches for the stuff dreams are made ofin the songs he sells, which come to life for him for brief moments. In time, he meets up with Eileen (Bernadette Peters), a shy school teacher with 
whom Arthur feels he can grasp hold 
ofthe true love these songs speak of. 
Unfortunately, the tragedy of 1936 
American life catches up with Ar­
thur's fantasies and forces his life in a 
forbidding direction. 

Pennies From Heaven doesn't pretend for a second to be a rollick­ing Steve Martin r--~~-Jy. The storyline is tragicauy ulelodramatic, much as one would tend to expect probably the most startling ofall the musical numbers, Arthur and Eileen walk into a movie screen and become Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers facing the music and dancing in "Follow the Fleet." 
In the real world, Arthur lives among ominous shadows created by Edward Hopper. Visual consultant Ken Adams and cinematographer Gordon Willis have done a mag­nificent job capturing t.his atmos­
.phere and, at times, recreating Hopper's paintings v:ith precise detail. For instance, the elegant mo­tion picture palace where Arthur and Eileen become Astaire and Rogers is an exact duplicate of the show hall depicted in Hopper's "New York Theatre." But this isn't 
just some clever name -dropping 

on Ross' part. The audience comes to believe that Arthur and Eileen could actually be the lonely "Nighthawks" trapped within Hop­per's gloomy corner cafe. 
The kaleidoscope doesn't end there. Even in the real world, Arthur dresses with an eye toward his art­deco fantasy world where bank loans are graciously given out and elevator operators stop between floors and turn their backs. Martin's clothing and Ross's framing are reminiscent of the illustrations of ).C. Leyendecker, the creator of the "Arrow Collar Man." Leyendecke fabricated fabulously handsome men set in a perfect geometrical design which proved a welcome relieffrom the lopsided world readers faced on the other side of 
the Saturday Evening Post. The Ar­row Collar Man never really existed yet invited thousands of marriage proposals from awe-struck young women in the Thirties. This is the sort of man Arthur dreams of being. 
Ross gives the kaleidoscope verisimilitude with a fine and flaw­less cast. The film is overflowing with multileveled characters whose lives and dreams seem so authentic, any disbelief is really suspended. 
Steve Martin's dramatic debut is quite impressive but it is his role as performer that gives Arthur dynamic energy. For Martin, Arthur Parker is an exercise in "happy feet." When he's dancing in his dreams, Ar­thur is total joy. The sheer sense of fun that flows from Steve Matin in these sequences drives Arthur's philosophy home -the soGgs ARE better than real life. 
Screenwriter Dennis Potter, who adapted the screenplay from his original BBC mini-series should also take a well-deserved bow. Providing the bones ofthe movie, Potter's intr­icate and well-constructed storyline and dialogue are both skillful and im­aginative. 
But, in the end, it is Herbert Ross's direction that is more than the sum. It would have been easy to let all these talented people digress in separate directions, but Ross keeps the movie right on target. The end result is a salvo ofartistic punches which reinforce the theme : the causes and effects ofa desire to "live in a world where the dreams come true." 

······································ft·~~·····························~······~ 
The Tri-weekly Features Svction 

Sullivans' Woods 
I
n the summer, when I was a kid growing up in Maine, you had 10 make a trip 10 Sullivans' woods with a girl. If you were popular with girls, you might make many trips, hut ont· trip was cxpt·nnl oft•vt·ry lad as a kind of rill' of passage. The woods themselves were un­remarkable, the Sullivans hl'ing dead, leaving behind them st·veral acres ofovergrown land, used as a lovers' lane, at the edge oflht· neighborhood. Nobody ever said what you were 10 do in the woods, and you could spend your time harmlessly in wildlife projects, like cutting the hark oil' of birch tret·s 10 arrange in designs on the wall ofyour room. The snickerers however -those pn·codous guys who always seemed to he sharing sonH· private dirty joke -insistt·d on hdkving that what happened was the best, or the worst, or the most 
ultimate experience that could take place bt·tween two 
young, consenting adults. You wert·n't explicitly 
pressured to go; no neighborhood hully laid down rules 
in the mauer. II was assumed that, if you were normal, 
you would want to go. Your reputation as a certifiable 
macho male depended on il. 
I never knew how the girb felt about it. Certainly 
there was no pressure ofexpectation on them as there 
was on the guys. A girl was encouraged to fed that ifshe 
cared about a guy, she would make the trip as a favor to 
him. If a fellow was such a mess that all the girls said no 
when he invited them to Sullivan's woods, you couldn't 
blame tht· fellow for not trying; but you certainly 
wouldn't permit him to be your social equal. Let him 
play in another neighborhood, the popular opinion 
said, where the standards ofacceptance weren't so 
high. 
Looking back, it makes me sad to remember how in­
secure an adolescent can be. Young teenagers, baffled 
by the mystery ofappetites and impulses in the blood 
stream, needed some ceremony ofinitiation which 
would legitimize the guilt ofdesire. Some yahoo lad, 
pimpled-faced and aching with early lust, proposing an 
erotic stunt as a way ofdividing the men from the boys; 
some henchman, anxious to explore the body's hun­
gers, supported the example. The rest of us, to gain ap­
proval and acceptance, played follow the leader, until a 
whole gang of kids fell into line as though they were 
observing a tradition. Very early, innocence is com­
promised, ifnot really lost, among the very young, with 
no thought given to childhood, which when left behind, 
is never again recoverable. 
We were not bad kids; our perversions were minor. 
Most ofus wore innocence inside us, hidden like a state 
ofgrace. Feeney, who would go on to play football at 
Holy Cross, was admired as an altar boy; and the Jesuits 
encouraged him, he said, to enter their novitiate after 
high school. Morrison won prizes for learning Bible 
verses in his Sunday schooL Wilson was the preacher's 
son. O'Sullivan had two sisters in the Dominicans, and 
ht· had very strict parents. 
<ioing to Sullivan's woods with a girl was one ofthose 
landmark occurrences oflife, ambiguous enough in its 
morality to satisfy everyone. It was not bad enough, Cat· 
holies said, to mention in confession, though I'm sure 
most of them did. Still, it was dangerous enough to 
virtue that worldly boys could l.'debratc it as an event 
damaging to one'~ reputation as an untested virgin; al­
though in my day, only girls, but never boys, were 
designated virginal, in their Jack ofexperience. 
Wlwn I was fifteen or sixteen. my own time came. 
There was an Irish girl named Trudy whom I con­
sidered special in my life. I would chum around with 
her brothers as a chance to go to her house. The 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
brothers were a pair ofclods, I thought; but! would put 
in a hard hour of playing table tennis so that I could be 
invited afterwards to drink lemonade with Trudy and 
her parents on their screened-in porch. The whole fami­
ly knew I was there because ofTrudy. Her brothers 
would punish me with gruelling games that left me hot 
and thirsty, as well as anxious to sit close to a cherished 
girl on the glider swing. 

One night, feeling particularly frustrated by her pain­in-the-butt brothers, I decide the time had come toes­tablish the canonical grounds for my friendship with 
Trudy. "Want to look for wild flowers tomorrow?" I said. I said it without my voice trembling, as though I were ac­complished as a rake. 
"Where?" she said. 
"In Sullivan's woods," I said. 

She gave me a look ofpity, as though wondering if there were nobody else I could ask. "All right," she said finally, "ifthat's what you want to do." She consented, I 
thought, because she's doing me a favor, and because she trusts me. 
I would never dream ofhurting the girl, or letting her be hurt through me. If I wanted her as a girlfriend, I reasoned, I had to play by the rules ofthe neighbor­hood. I had to walk tall enough among the teenagers so that she could respect me. I began to feel a respon­sibility for a person who was kind enough to play a boys' game so that I could assert my male identity among peers. 
I called for her at one o'clock. She had made 
sandwiches; peanut butter and jelly, she said. Forever 
afterwards, peanut butter and sandwiches were the best 
symbol! knew ofthe ways a woman could be thought­
ful. Her brothers watched her go. They knew what was 
happening; they would inform the neighborhood. I al­
most hoped they would stop us, as some brothers, 
protective offamily honor, had been known to do. It 
was Trudy's misfortune that her brothers were clods. 
As we approached Sullivan's place, I began thinking 
ofsomething my father had told me. "There are two 
rules a good man Jives by, whether he's religious or not: 
watch your style, and always show that you've got class. 
Style means the rituals of your external conduct. Class 
means your inegrity and personal honor. You can't 
separate the two, and still call yourself a good man." 
I looked at Trudy. She had placed her hand on my 
arm. 

"What the hdl am I doing?" I thought. Suddenly, Jove was larger than any need for acceptance by the tribe. This reckless, generous girl seemed the most beautiful creature that ever walked. I wasn't willing to do some stupid thing that oafs expected of me. Simple human decency made me ashamed of myself. 
"Let's go to the movies,"! said. 

We did go to the movies. In the darkness of the theater I held her hand. We wouldn't have done any­thing more intimate than that in Sullivan's woods, I thought. It was enough, that afternoon, to make me happy. 
For the Good Times 
C
dcbratc till' last wct·kend ofJanuary with the finest in campus events. IN CONCERT 
lbe Notre Dame Glee Club Jinks with The University ofMich­igan Glee Club in conct·rt at 8: IS 
p.m. tonight in Washington Hall. Dr. Patrick Gardner will conduct the group from tht· Wolverine country 

Paul McG.inn Gregory Swiercz 
weekend 
in Festgesang by Felix Mendelssohn and in works by Daniel Pinkham, Benjamin Britten, and George Gershwin. The Domer Glee Club, condtKted by Carl Stam, will prt·st·nt compositions by Beet· hoven, Brittt:n. Renaissann· com­posers and will include scvt·ral spirituals. Both groups will a)s(l present music on the lighter side, dt·monstrating the rousing school spirit of both institutions. Gt.·t then: early and take in the tunes. As al­
ways, there is no admission charge. 
The sixth annual Keenan Revue returns h> entertain and satirizt· students and faculty alike tonight and tomorrow evenings at 8:00p.m. at ()'Laughlin Auditorium on the Saint Mary's campus. Tickets have been dis­tributed, and 2,600 lucky devils wi!; sec the showcase of talent per­formed, written and directed by the residents of Keenan HalL No faction of the greater ND/SMC community will be left untouched by the rhvmc and wit of the Kecnanites. 
SPEAKING OUT 
Carol Knell, assistant professor of music at Saint Mary's, will present a voice recital ofsongs by tht· Ger­man Johannes Brahms, by the Spaniard Xavier Montsalvatgc, and b}' Saint Mary's own Assistant Profes­sor of Music Roger Briggs. Assistant Professor of Music Jeffrey Jacob and tlutist Laura Halland will accompany the nH:zzo-soprano on Sunday cvt·· ning at H:OO in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre. All music lovers arc en­couraged to attend this free event. 

Archbishop Raymond G. Hunthausen, one of the foremost spokesmen on the National Council of Bishops position on nuclear dis­armament, will lecture Friday on 
W~J' Challenge Nuclear Arms: Ris­1· :,,g a Christian Response at 7:30 
p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Saturday he meets with CILA and will discuss nuclear arms at9:00 a.m. in the .\1emorial Library Auditorium. 
AT THE MOVIES 
Giovanni Boccaccio's Decameron continues tht: Friday Night film Series tonight at 7:30 in the Annenbcrg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. The t1Im provides a brilliant adaptation of the bawdy tales of I 0 14th century pilgrims. 
"Come del morire!" 
The Notre Dame Student Union presents Alfred Hitchcock t 's Psycho tomorrow night in the Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom. For S I any stu­dent can treat himself to one of the fint:st horror flk:ks of the early 60s. 
.Wolber may never let you take a shmt•er alone again. 
1o0 L 
,., 

Monopoly: 
Sign of the times ­
I
t says on the playing instructions thatMonopo(y was inventt:d by 
Charles Darrow ofGermantown, Pennsylvania during the Great 
Depression. "Mr. Darrow, like many other Americans, was un­
employed at the timt: and he worked out the details of the game 
primarily to amuse himself during this period.'' 
I doubt that Charlie expected his battle of brokers and bankers to 
retain its popularity for so long, especially through the Not·So·Great 
Recession of 1981-82. But it has, for some at least. 
Others do not like being reminded ofthe prices in the 1920's. A 
friend of mine who works in real estate recently had a party where 
the main attraction was watching his vintage Monopo(y game burn 
in his fireplace, right down to the last little green house. He kept 
crying, "Burn all you hundred-dollar mortgages, BURN!" 
Mr. Darrow didn't mean any harm I'm sure. It's just that his 
Depression amusement is 
today a little less amusing and 
a little more depressing. 
--i
When we play Monopo(v Paul Kosidowski today we should all be drink­ing nickel cups-of-coffee and Second Thoughts listening to "Fibber McGee.'' That might take some of the sting out oftheCommuni~v Chest cards that instruct us to pay a doc­tor bill ofonly fifty dollars. 
I can't confirm this, hut theCommunity Chest was probably some 
sappy charity scheme -money set aside by a group ofneighbors or 
an Elk's club to help out people in emergencies. They had alot of 
those in the Depression. Since we arc looking for some altt·rnatives 
to Welfare these days, someone may want to start a subcommittt'l' 
and look into this idea. 
One unique .'11onopoly conct·pt which has since become extinct 
is "free Parking." The rules state, "A player landing on this spa1.T 
docs not rccicve any money...This is just a 'free' rt·sting place." If! 
ever found a "free" resting place I'd stay thert· for the rest of my lift-. 
Just once I'd Jikt· to go somewhere and just sit without pt·oplc 
badgering me about buying cocktails or Mazda's or designer jeans. 
The jewelry department ofTiffany's would he a great place to spt·ml 
the afternoon. 
Monopol)' money is printed in dt·nominations of S I to SSOO. 
There arc no credit cards, bank accounts, ERA's, mont·y markets, tax 
deductions. or obnoxious hank tdlers. When I played with my bt·st 
friend Bill he used to hide a couple of"tlvcrs" undt·r the hoard and 
pull them out just when we all thought ht· was "gone." Bill was pretty 
clever. 
Ifyou pick up the right card in Communi~}' Chest you win sn:ond 
place in a beauty contest. Tht· card says you win S I 0, hut you 

probably would also take over ti>r the first prize winner if she got 
hurt. Today you could take over if the winner got caught wearing a 
padded bra, but back then all brassieres were padded so that wasn't a 
worry. 
Ofcourse the Depression wasn't that naive-"Ifthe Bankl·r plays in the game, he must keep his personal funds separate from the rest of the bank.'' 
My favorite part ofMonopoly was passingGO.It was the business world's way ofsaying, "So you've had a little hard luck, here's 200 bucks to help you forget about it.'' Despite the economic drawbacks I think it would do wonders for the morale ofthe country ifeveryone found S200 under their pillow every morning.Just something to say, "We know you're trying, keep up the good w t ork." 
I don't know how popular the game was in the Depression, but I can imagine how nice it would feel to throw around money like that when you were making a dollar a week. Also, if you think about how nice people have been during the recent bad weather you can begin to imagine how kind they must have been in those tough times. That's probably why the game was invented: kindness is usually 
l
boring. Americans missed all the drama and excitement of the Rat 
Race. So they decided to bring the Race into their living rooms and j 
have a few good laughs with it. 
Some of the ".'11onopo(y principles" are not very popular today. 
Take this rule for instance: "The bank never 'goes broke.' Ifthe bank 
runs out of money it may issue as much more as may he nt•eded by 
merely writing on any ordainary paper.'' That's why you never sec 
President Reagan and David Stockman sit down to a long relaxing 
I
game of.'11onopo(v. 
1 
! 
~---~--------­
. I 
~~()rts=L=~=r==i=e~~=S===============================Fr=ict=ay=,J=a~nu~ar=y~2=9,~1=98=2==p=a=ge==s 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
Sheila Roesler was a double winner for the .\/otre Dame women's swimming t<:am. not Gail-:vtarie Kascll as was reported in The Observer yesterday. Roe.sler won the SUO-yard freestyle ( 5:42.02) and the I00-yard butterfly (I:03.02). -The Ob­server 
Tickets for away Notre Dame basketball games against Seton Hall and Michigan are available at the second floor ticket office in the ACC. The Seton Hall game will be held on Thursday, February 18 at the Meadowlands Arena in.East Rutherford, N.J. Tickets for the :VIichigan game, to be held at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on 
Sunday, March 7, are priced at S4, S6 and $8. -The Observer 
The Student Union continues to sponsor ski trips to Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses depart from the \'lain Circle at S p.m. and return at II p.m. Bus tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for S2.50, or on the bus itself for 53.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental are available -The Observer 
The ND Billiards Tournament begins this Monday, February I, in the poolroom in LaFortune (located below the Huddle). It will be straight billiards of I00 balls. Players call their own shots and the winner advances to the finals, where the cham­pion gets a trophy. There are no entrance fees -you only pay for your time ofplaying. Students may sign up in the poolroom anytime 
-The Observer 

The Chicago White Sox wintn publicity caravan will stop in South Bend on Wednesday, February 3. Events include a press conference at the Knights ofColumbus Hall, HIS N. :vtichigan, at 6:30p.m., to be followed by a smoker at 7 p.m. Featured guests will include manager Tony LaRussa, catcher Carlton Fisk, slugger Greg Luzinski, outt1elder Tom Paciorek, and also the Sox' new mascots, "Ribbie" and "Roobarb.:' Players will be available for autographs af­ter the session. For more information, contact Dr. John Tocpp at either 234-9800 (K ofC), 288-6321 (home) or 287-5542 (work)­
The Observer 

The men's and women's swimming
team hosts two teams this weekend. At 4 p.m., Notre Dame's women's team ( 3-2) will host Western Ontario's women's team who are 1-3 on the season. The men ( 2-2) go against the Western .\llichi­gan men ( 2-3) at 7 p.m. Tomorrow, the men host St. Bonaventure ( 4-3) at 2 p.m. All ofthe meets are held at the Rockne .\llemorial Pool. 
-The Observer. 
The NDI SMC women's gymnastics team arc competing in a quadrangular meet against Southeast :vtissori State, Valparaiso, and Wheaton tommorrow at I I a.m. at the Angela Ath­letic Facility. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's Fencingteams faces what could be its toughest test of the season when the Clemson Tigers invade the ACC today. Purdue rounds out the triangular mec:t, but the spotlight will be on the Irish-Tiger clash. The men's fencing team is sporting a perfect 4-0 record while the women are hoping to improve their 3-1 mark.-The Observer 
Michigan outlasts Ohio State 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) -Dan 
Pelekoudas hit a 20-foot jump shot 
as time expired to give :vtichigan a 
62-60 overtime Big Ten basketball 
victory over Ohio State last night. 
The Wolverines had led by as 
many as I 0 points, 54-44, with nine 
minutes remaining in the game as 
junior center Ike Person battered 
the Buckeyes inside with I 0 of his 
14 points in the second half. 
Ohio State battled back and 
scored eight unanswered points to 
close the margin to S4-52 with 5:45 
remaining. Two free throws by Thad 
Garner with 2:35 left gave Michigan 
a ;6.;2 lead. 
Ohio S T tate forward Bryant 
Johnson, however, countered with a 
layup and a short jumper to knot the 
game at 56-56 with 53 seconds left 
in regulation time. 
Michigan freshman Eric Turner ­
who had 16 of his 20 game po!nts in · the first half -had a chance to win the game, but missed two free 
throws after he was fouled while 
attempting a shot at the buzzer. 
Each side scored two baskets ear­
ly in the five-minute overtime 
period and the game remained tied 
60-60 with 3:20 left. 
Michigan ended an I 1-game 
losing streak and raised its record to 
2-13 overall and 1-6 in the con­
ference. 
Classifieds 

CPT 4200 word procesor-cassette LOST. DARK BLUE AMITY BEACH system wtth v1rtual memory opt1on and 45 WALLET ON MONDAY THE 25TH cps Rotary Ill p11nter $2150. Phone 234­
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN HAYS· 7242. HEALY AND THE ACC. MANY IMPOR·
NOTICES 
TANT IRREPLACEABLES INSIDE IF FOUND. PLEASE CONTACT JIM AT x1523. HELP! 
TICKETS 

ATTENTION ALL ST LOUISANS: Are you look~ng for a SUMMER JOB 1n ST. LOUIS?????? The Sl LOUIS CLUB may NEED LOTS OF MARQUETTE TIX


be able to help you. Call B1ll at 1175 for x8291
FOR RENT

more mformat1on. 
Need G.A or student Marquette fix! CallTYPING. EX-LEGAL SECRETARY. 272­Greg. 1082.

5337 STUDENT RENTALS: 2 SIX BEDROOM NEED: Marquette t1x: V1nce x1238
SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE WITH A HOUSES NEXT DOOR TO EACH BOUQUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED OTHER FULLY CCARPETED. 
Need many MU tix ED all 068

FIREPLACE AND LOFT CALL 272­WEDNESDAY'S FLOWERS 289-1211. 7767, 232-4057, 272-2720. 
EVERY WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. 
Need MARQUETTE TIX (Stud orGA)VALENTINES DAY IS CLOSE BY Please call Susan at 8027 ../.. 2 ROOMS. PRIVATE SHOWER AND 

ENTRANCE 288-0955 I desperately need San Fransc1sco G.A ·s 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO 
call Dan 1171 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277 ·3604 Wanted: 2 G. A s lor NORTH CAROLINA 


FURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW ST on 2-13. CALL TOM at1470. 
LOST/FOUND 
277-3604 HELP!!!

Found: Blue and green scarf. Discovered 
at Bendix Woods 1114/82. Call John at 
efficiency apt,private enterance I desperately need many Marquette Bas­

1764to Identify. 1OOmo close to n.d. also 3 bed house 1 
ketball T1ckets. Please call MARY at8009 THANKS!
1/2 bath call 2558505 LOST. Pa1r of brown plastic-rimmed 

glasses w1th brown case-case has 
ROOMMATE WANTED-completely fur­Need MARQUETTE IIX.Lou1s x3160 

broken pocket clip If found. please bnng mshed apt. ·super locale· name your rent 
10 lost and lound 1n Adm1n or call1229. Dave 283·1169 
FOUND: FOREIGN COIN ON ROAD BE­HIND FIREHOUSE. CALL 4635 TO 
....---------.··· I 
PERSONALS 

IDENTIFY 
LOST-rockwell calculator 1n north dm1ng L.-__ ______.I NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10.30 
PM
W_A_N_T~E_D 

hell! over weekend no quest1ons asked.call Bert at6863. Need nde to Cleveland. 0. Fnday. Jan. BARB. HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY!NOW YOU
29. Can leave anyt1me Call John. 3770. ARE 'LEGAL IN N.J.(BUT I M NOT) I FOUND: SET OF SIX KEYS. 241. 

OUTSIDE CAVANAUGH. CALL TOM AT LOVE YOU AND MISS YOU AND WISH I 
Wanted: JOE MUSUMESI UG~ Y MAN ON CAMPUS 1470. 

COULD BE WITH YOU. ILL SEE YOU IN 
Reward: The UMOC Chanties w1th your MAY LUVALWAYS(ANDALLWAYS) THE YOUNGER MAN LOST: NO Key Cha1n and Key. If lound 

vote P S. ELLIOT SENDS HIS LOVE AND SAYS YOU DONT KNOW WHAT Call2843. 

2 RIDERS NEEDED TO MARDI GRAS Feb 18-23. Call Bnan 8928. YOU RE MISSING 

LOST TEXAS INSTRUMENT CAL­CULATOR LOST BEFORE CHRISTMAS BREAK IN NIEUWLAND 
RIDERS NEEDED to Clev. P11ts .. Wesl ' 10 HIDDEN HEARTS! Feb 12 Zahm. Ask 

SCIENCE HALL PLEASE CALL 287­2405 IF YOU KNOW ITS 
PA area. for Feb 12-14 Call2843 aZahmb1e! 

WHEREABOUTS. THANK YOU The true 1dent1ty ol the Shad.. apply to WANTED. MARQUETTE TIX CALL 
N. Brennan.A A1me1te. or K.Ryan before MOLLY 8034 LOST: ONE PEARL NECKLACE. lost be­m1dn1ght on September 6. 1939tween the Huddle and the library-11 found DEAD MEAT. Hope you have a HAPPYplease call 284-4981 ( necklace has deep NEED RIDE TO JACKSON. Ml BIRTHDAY th1s weekend. after all you aresentimental value) reward. Thank you. 

WEEKEND OF FEB 5-7. CALL MIKE 21 and you are of age Thanks for the 1857 abuse the other day I thnve on 11. Ill getLost: Key nng w1th live keys. Lost in even one of these days. behave rne. Have

library or La Fortune. Please call 8932. WANTED: 1 housemate lor 6 bedroom a great birthday. PORKY 
house. 717 St. Lou•sAve:call232-3237 Need a spec1al Valentines Day g1ft? Con­
Lost: women's Sieko quartz watch lost be­

tween Madeleva and Reg1na Call Jod1 4714SMC 
WANTED. Reliable woman wanted to tact your SARAH COVENTRY Jewelry prm11de child care 1n my home part time Represenat1ve on campus. Laura A Call233-3846. Curhss at 7515. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES--­January 26-February5 
FOR SALE 
Social Concerns Film Senes TRUE CON­FESSIONS January 28 and 29 7. 9. and 1 1 p.m. Engineering Auditonum $1 00 ad­

FOUND: S1x keys on nng found Monday mght behind Huddle. Call 283-7960 or 

SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS AND TRUCKS miSSion Co-sponsored by Student Umon 
AVAILABLE. Many sell for under $200 Call312-742·1143. Ext 7316 for~nforma· TRUE CONFESSIONS January 28 and 11on on how to purchase 29 Engmeenng Aud1tonum 7.9. and 1 1 239-7524 and ask for Barb. 

LOST: Pearl and gold bracelet and ear­p m. $1.00 admiSSIOn Soc1al Concerns
rings. Call Judy at3842. REWARDII FOR SALE AtomiC SKIS w/Saloman bin· F11m Senes Co-sponsored by Studen,t 
dmgs 160cm $50 8683 Un1on 


SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES Dr Strangelove February 1. 3. 4. and 5 Engineenng Auditorium 7 and 9:30 p.m. 
50 admission 
Dr Strangelove February 1, 3. 4. and 5 Eng1neenng Aud1tonum .50 AdmiSSIOn 7 anr1 9:30 p.m. SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES 
Hired Hands Un1te! 
CONGRATULIONS BILL SLATTERY ON YOUR VASECTOMY. BILL WILL DO ANYTHING FORA DATE! HAVE AT HIM GIRLS. 
TWO IT ON A WINDSURFER. 
I am the only one who knows to whom the vo1ce ol the InVISible SHAD belongs.. Sounds f1shy. 
LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS Don·! lorgetth1s Saturday is SNOW REC! We are go1ng tub1ng at Erskme Country Club Meet at Logan at 9:00 and we w1ll be back by 11 :30 All volunteers are encouraged to come. Make sure and dress warmly. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CAROL TOOMEY! 
Sunday night at 6pm...joln Tim Neely for 
another venture into your rock 'n' roll past on the Top 20 Time Tunnel on WSND AM64 
Th1s week: the week end1ng February 
4. 1978 1nclud1ng songs by B1lly Joel. the Bee Gees. Steely Dan. and more PLUS a spec1al TTTT extra -Carry1ng Th1ngs a B1t Too Far 
Jeb Cashin and S1mon should qo! We 
have had enough Comedy is pretty 
and th1s proves 11 Please g1ve us S1mon!! 
LEWIS HALL PIZZA SALES IS NOW OPEN FOR DINNER ON FRIDAYS 6:00· 8 30 AND SUNDAYS 3:00-5 30. PLACE ORDERS IN LEWIS BASEMENT OR CALL 3981 COME AND CHOW 
FT. LAUDERDALE AT SPRING BREAK Including round trip motor coach transportation and 7 nights ac­comodations • $50 deposit required by monday Feb. 1st .For more information call Paul Seminara at 283-6768. 
TRICIA--Breakfast is bland w1thout you. 
THE FEW THE PROUD THE POLAR 
BEARS I 
POLAR BEAR TAILGATER SAT 
BEFORE HOOPS GAME!! COLD BEER. 
HOT DOGS. WARM PEOPLE!' RUN BY 
THE BIG RED ALL ARE WELCOME. 
GREEN FIELD. 5 30-GAMETIME!! 
GURDAK may be a Holy Cross Hog. but 
MUSUMECI IS truely a sw1ne 
MUSUMECI FOR UMOC 
Dearest Bradley. Last n1ghts opera was 
the p1ece de res1stance to a perfect eve­
nmg. Monmque 
Hey Brad-God! The hockey game was a 
rush! How s your eye? (Sorry about that) 
Catch you tater. Bubbles 
... Dear Brad. Last Fnday mght atlhe 
Memorial was Heaven on the 12th 
Floor You make study1ng tun. Your little 
deep throat. Margaret-Mary 
The (,i.Jserver will accept classtfieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertion. All classif1eds must be prepatd. either in person or through the mat!. 
Happy Birthday Bradley Baz·· Zenger!!! 
DEAR FUZZY. THANKS FOR ALWAYS 

Brad. They made me do thiS! A fellow Pat 
~~\~~ ::;~~N!L~~~ :g:E.~~~~~

Benatar Group1e. 
01. Happy birthday! love. your buddy 
FRESHMAN CLASS UNITE Beh1nd the 8th Wonder of the World. 
SLICK SAYS WELL DONE FARLEY HUMP COMMITTEE!! NEXT WEEK. HUMP NITE RETURNS TO ITS GRI\SS 
After s1and1ng outside 1n ROOTS!!! MT FOR HUMPMASTER!! l1ne for half an-hour. freez1ng our toes. and not getting tickets. we've decided to sit in FIRE AWAY!!! our rooms th1s weekend and get wasted. 
aga1n. Thanks for the campus soc1al GET HOPPIN! Just hke Banker. Brian. event... again. Petey, George-god. D1xon. Stemy. Jack. The 500 Alcoholic Foots Noofer. Deem. and JW. Ton1ght at 
o·Laughhn. With the vocal talents of Jack Do lowdown finks run your foodsales? Lloyd Ill. Bee tbere Ill/ 
. ······· .... .... ................. . Vote Joe Gruber and Chris Anthony for · Give me a woman w1th b1g feet BTOC (BT for b1ggestlh1eves) -theb1g 13. 
Dear Keenan. 
BOYCOTT PANGBORN FOODSALESII!! IN YOUR MUG JOE Andy.John. & M1ke. ANDTWANI! Let11 be known that I was forc1bly held 1n 
the van last Fridy Ep1sode 2 of Those Fabulous Feisty ya·u have rwnea n1y Wenches: In last week s exc1t1ng ep1sode reputat1on that I have tr 
· we watched helplessly as Doris the hard to mamtam. -Another Dev1ate and Krafty Kat1e plotted to do abused SMC ch1c p.s. I don't want to pl~y away with their unsuspecting and ttustmg 1n ya·lls yard 
roommates. Sweet Jane and Polly the Blonde Bombshell Dons and Kalle were ENTROPISM LIVES I recently unseated as the Fe1st1est Wenches of Amenca. being out-fe1st1ed Hearken unto the Ftond1an Fasc by Jane and Polly. Polly 1mmed1atey 
began tounng Europe as a part of the Is JEFF LINDHOLM actually a closet sup· 
promotional pac~age and IS currently porter of ERA? grac1ng London w1th her unparalleled feistiness Jane s tour thus far has been ASK MIKE MONK WHY HES SMILING 
limited to the M1dwest. Now. as Kat1e and 
TODAY Dons dev1se dirty tncks to comm1t agamst Jane. we will leave them now and return to 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIKE MONK! another sect1on of todais personals. Ah. yes. here we are aga1n wtth those Boy. do I love rabbits (espec1ally their fe1sty wenches everyone 1s talk1ng about. deep, furry burrows) Bul let us get to the ac!lon at hand That dev1ous duo of Katie and Dons have con· CILA education workshop: Why Chal­cocted an ev11 potion des1gned to nd both lenge Nuclear Arms?. R1sk1ng a Chnsllan Jane and Polly of the1r fe•st1ness 1n hopes Response Jan 29th 7 30p m ... Lecrure of rega1mng their lost FWOA IItie As Jane by Archb•shop Ray-mond Hunthausen. enters her third floor Walsh penthouse al­L1brary Aud Jan. 301h 9:00a.m · ter d long arduous day of tounng South 12 OOnoon--ln· formal diSCUSSIOn w1th Bend. Kane nonchalantly offers her a cup ArchbiShop Hunthausen and Joe of tea. Jane. not know1ng that the cup of Cosgrove focus1ng ·on students con­warm herbs IS laced wtth the damag1ng cerns. Library Lounge. Please come! pot1on. puts the cup to her hps. Dons and Katie smile sadiStically and thetr ev1l eyes MARDI GRAS MARATHONERS!! H1t gleam w1th ecstasy as they env1s1on the 
your roommates. su1temates homble effects whiCh are about to befall dormmates. classmates..any and all one of the feistiest wenches the world has mates..for sponsorshipS. Sponsors could ever known. Suddenly. through the door 
w1n a tnp to New Orleans dunng Mard1 like a bull. storms M1ke Banner pnvate Gras You could w1n a color TV or a stereo detectiVe and all-around n1ce guy He or lots more! Its all for a good cause. We rushes across the room and throws the !hank you Death Cup to the floor. But 1t s too late Sweet Jane has already drunk some of KEENA~ HOCKEY FAN. YOU MERCI­the potion She falls to the lloor like a rag LESSLY INSULTED THE SMC CREW doll: her breathing stops. her hear beat IS TEAM IN WEDNESDAYS OBSERVER 1rregular Banner knows there s only one A FEW COMMENTS. PLEASE I IT'S th1ngtodo He II have to deal w1th the mur· THE ND-SMC WOMEN SCREW TEAM deresses later. But nght now. he II be THESE WOMEN PUT ASIDE ALL forced to perform mouth to mouth resus­IMMAT-URE. POINTLESS ND·SMC Citation on Sweet Jane tf she IS to have RIVALRY TRADITIONS AND WORK TO­any chance of surv1v1ng thiS VICIOUS at­GETHER AS A CO-HESIVE UNIT tack As Banner goes at 1t. Kat1e and Dons YOU VE INSULTED YOUR SISTERS took for th1ngs to throw at h1m Meanwhile. ON THIS CAMPUS AS WELL 2 YOUR m London. Polly the Blonde Bombshell Is INSINUATIONS AS TO CREW MORALS enJOying tea and crumpets wtth Pnnce AND IMAGINATIONS ARE UN­Charles and Lady D1ana But IS that FOUNDED FIND YOURSELF ANOTH· regular tea that she IS about to pulto her 
ER SCAPEGOAT THANKS FOR YOUR lips. or IS ot. IS rt TOMORROWS COOPERATION SIGNED. YOUR EPISODE Mike Banner gets carried FRIENDLY ROWING FANATIC away. 
BILL G GOOD LUCK IN THE REVUE .. To our fnends 1n Grace and Alumnt YOU RE THE GREATEST Thanks for your grac1ous and stnctly platomc hosp11ahty Crash & Co 

---------·---·----------­
--------------------------·---·---------­
·fhe Observer Friday, january 29, 1982-page 9 

:llike Mitchell and the Irish will be taking on the guarding the !11arquette sparkplugs, Glenn Rivers Warriors of Marquette this Saturday ar 8 p.m. and Micbeal Wilson. See Chris Needles story• on Mitcbe/1 andjobn Paxson u•i/1 ha_ve the task of page 12. (Photo b)! Carrie Koplin) ­
Figure skating 
Hamilton leads championships 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Scott tigure. The two renew thdr competition 
llamilton, thc 19H I world cham­"Thc second time I did the tigurc, today night when they present their 
pion, had a lirst hc ncvcr wants to it was OK. But it wasn't that great," short two-mimJte skating program. 
rl·pcat ycstl·rday as hc startcd Hamilton said. "I lost some con­The men's competition ends tom· 
dcl(:nding his titk in thc U.S. Nation­Hdencc. It's tough cnough to do morrow night at Market Square 
al Figurc Sk;uing Championships. three ligures and I wasn't ovcrjoyl·d Arena. 
Hamilton, 2:\. had to rcskatc t his about having to do one over again. I "I'm a little disappointed at this 
Sl'l'ond Hgurl" aftcr a discussion with was a little scared when I had to do it point," saki Santl"C. "I've almost al­again." ways been ahead of Scott after the
the ollkiab during compulsory compulsories."
Hgurc compl·tition at till' Indiana "The icc was had. lie deserved a 
Stall' Fairgroumb. second chance," Santct· said. 
"Tht·rc wa~ a st·l'lion of thc icc Ilamilton received ratings ranging llowcvcr. Hamilton claritled thl· 
that was sticky. I was going so slow, from 4. 2 to :~,(, for thl· second tigurc remark b) hb long-time rival by 
my tlJOt kl·pt stopping," said thl· while Santl·c's marks ranged from pointing out he had defeated Salllcl· 
llavcrl(>rd, Pa.. resident who was ?>.7 to --l.'i. twice last year in head-to-head com­
rn:ently namnl the l!.S. Olympic "The competition was won and pulsory figure competition. 
Committel·'s mall' athlete of the lost on that second figure," Santee "He beat me in Worlds last year," 
year. said, explaining that it was his marks Hamilton said, "but I heat him in Na· 
Hamilton; who !cads the nll·n's which made the ditfcrcncc. tionals and in our other meeting last 
t'ompetition after the compulsory "I don't want to complain about year." 
ligures, has been skating since he the marks. It's just that various In Thursday's competition, Hamil­
was nine when he took up the sport juugcs sec a lot of different things ton compiled a 1.20.90 score and 
to haule a dtildhood disease and react to ditfcrcnt things," he had nine ordinals. Santee was next at 
"Schwachman's Syndrome" which is said. 114.90. 
often fatal. llntil Thursday, he IH'ver 
had to rcskatc a tigurc in competi­
tion. 

SUNDAY MASSES 

"I was scared to death while I was 
ATSACREDHEARTCHURCH 
working on the tlgure," he said. "I 
didn't know whether to stop or what 
Masses are for Sunday, Jan. 31, 1982 
and I didn't know if I'd get another 
chance. Uut the oftkiab checked the 
S:15 PM Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 
icc and told me to try the tigurc again." 
9:00AM Sunday Rev. Frank Cafarelli, C .S.C. 
Hamilton was leading the tidd af­ter the tlrM of thc three rl·quircd 
10:30 AM Sunday Rev. Lee Klosinski, C.S.C. tigures but David Santel·, who finished second to Hamilton in both 
12:15 PM Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 
the national and world champion­
7:15PM Vespers Rev. Lee Klosinski, C.S.C.
ships last year, t gained on the s<·cond 
r~~--------------.---sp7c;,---,
I!::~" GREAT wALL GREATWALL"REUBEN" I 
t ~_Chinese ~ American Restaurant • corn beef t 
1
t 1 { !.n~~:~~~u alila~~~~!~5 group rates available •• sa~er khraut e !
t SWISS C ees ' 
THE WHOLE TOWN IS TALKING... e thousand isle dressing t t About our Fantastic Cuisine and our on rye bread with french t t Great Chinese/American Buffet fries t f tor only $299[ ______!~.]~-----.!t Now For Your Pleasure We Feature HOURS: t 
t The Following Choice of Family Specials Mon.·Thura.·11:30a.m.-1o:oop.m. ' Fri. & Sat. 11:30 a.m.-11 :00 p.m. ' t Fri.: e Baked Cod in lemon sauce s~n. & Holldays11:30a.m.-9:oo ~m., t e Roast Pork Egg Foo Young • II ~ t t t Sat.: e Veal Parmesan ~1 !__ , 
e Sweet & Sour Pork , , '! Su11.: e Deep Fried Chicken z.,._ t ' eszechuan Beef with Broccoli ' 
$3•95 

' ' • 411 ~?eod~~~:.i~~~~~~er~il1.1s served w1th soup and non-alcoholiC beverage, llmtf ' 
-, 
' • All above Amencan specials served With potato, vegetable, rolls, and of course • '
27 2 7376' our fantastiC 25/tem salad bar. & 
~---~._......,...._...._..~.._.~~..-.. ............... .-.. ..... ~~..._..-.. ...... ~~~.._....-..~ 
Hill leads skaters in -wotnen's nationals 
INDIANAPOLIS (! t') · Priscilla said Zayak. Hill, runnl·r-up to Elainl· Zayak last Vikki til· Vries, l 7, of Colorado year, retained the lead vestt:rdav af­Springs, Colo., who was fourth after ter the second phase of the, •npcti­the opening compulsory tlgurc por· tion in the Championshit Ladies tion of the three-phase competition, 
event of the I98.2 lJ.S. '\;ational movcd into third by placing second Figure Ska~ing championship~. in the short program which counts 
''I'm very plcascd with m~ perfor­!(>r 20 percent of a skater's tina! manct~." said Hill,.20, of Lexington. scorl'. Rosalynn Sumners tlnished Mass., after completing l~;-r two­tirst in the short program and movl·d minute presentationtatio• which from fifth to fourth place heading in­
must include Sl'Vcn require· noves to today's tina! portion of the com· 
on icc. "There wasn't an· ,pedal petition. part I likcd more than anothcr._The Jacki Farrell was fifth, followcu by overall program. went very \\'ell." Tiffany Chin, Jill Frost, Simone 
Hill had a factored placement of Grigorcscu, Mclissa Thomas anu 
Kl'lly \X'chstl·r. program competition. Zayak, who 
2.2 after placing ti>urth in the short 
In yesterday afternoon's competi­missed a double Salchow in her 
tion, Judy Ulumbt:rg and Michael 
presentation was second at .2.4. 
Seibert received near perfect scores "It was a beginner's move," said from all nine judges to successfullyZayak, 16, ofParamus, N.J .. about the 
start their dcft·nsc in dtampionship move she missed. "But. l was pleased dance hy tinishing first in the that I was able to continue and make opt·ning phase oftheir competition. a strong overall presentation." Zayak's presentation included a The day's activity was schcuuled triple toc loop. a move than none of to end with the medal presentations the other nine competitors in l'hampionship pairs. Defenuing dcmonstratcu. champions Kitty and Peter Carrut-., "I usually get nervous when I 
hers were leading heading into the mess up. but this timc I went all out 
tlnal phase of their two-part com­and pushed my whole program," 
petition. 

"A wonderful movie." 
THE FUNNIEST GENE .\JIAlJl.VBC-1'1; 7iu/a)' SUPER HERO OF THEM ALLI 
SUPER

F()Uil 
Fuzt..~ 
AVCO EMBASSY PICTURfS RELEASE

fttti~NllS 

_-,. 
The Observer 
----·-------------------------­
Friday,January 29, 1982-page 10 
Meet Saturday 
Irish track team ready to run 

By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's men's track tc:am will host four teams Friday night in the: north dome ofthe ACC with-the: prelimanaries be:ginning at 6:30p.m. and the tlnals at 7 p.m. 
Invading the: ACC will be Loyola, Valparaiso, Bradley, and lllinois­Chicago Circle:. None: ofthc:se tc:ams will be: as strung as Iowa, who defc:atc:d the Irish 69-62 last Satur­dav. 
Loyola should be: Notre Dame's toughest competition in the meet. "Thc:y have a few good jumpers and distance runners coming back and they always come up with a good hurdler or two," said Head Coach 
Co-Captain Dave Poulin ( 15) and Alternate Captain Bill Joe Piane, who is in his seventh Rothstein (9) will be leading tbe1risb hockey team against Michi­season for the Irish. "We only beat gan Tech this weekend. Poulin is on a bot streak, scoring 19 goals 
them by twenty points or so last 
and eight assists in tbe last 12 games. See Mike Olenik's story on 
year, so· we know we'll get some 
page 12. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
tough competition. "But I don't want to diminish the importance of this meet," said Joe Piane. "It is im­portant that we win this meet."
EASY AMTIL\1( RID....... With the addition of five very talented freshman to Piane's strong returning contingent, the Irish are
$5.00 to Niles depot 
building toward national 
For reservations or schedule information, prominence. Friday's five-team meet 
call us or contact your travel agent. will be just one step towards reach­
ing that goal. "It pretty much looks like a tune­up meet," said graduate student Tim
United Limo 
Macauley, who is a former Irish All­American on the two-mile relay. "It is a good pick-up meet for Mar­quette." The Warriors are scheduled for Feb. 5 at the ACC and boost several strong distance runners. 
Norte Dame's strength this season apparently will come in the running events, with the field events strug­gling. Because of the competition Friday, the fact that several Irish per­formers will be running in offevents, and the I76-yard track, times and distances will not be of the record­

breaking variety. 

Top pc:rformers to watch for the Irish will be juniors Steve Dziabis · and Jim Moyar, who were double 
MASS 
follow-ed b:}r 
winners for the Irish against Iowa. 
Dziabis's 48.7 in the 440-yard dash
supper 
was an Iowa fieldhouse record. 
Dziabis also won the 600-yard dash
every_ 
while Moyar took top honors in the 
880 and I ,000. 

FRIDAY 
Freshman Tim Cannon broke into the collegiate ranks with an excel-
at the 
lent winning effort in the mile of 
4: I 0. Sophomore Ralph Caron ap­pc:ared fully rc:covered from a hamstring injury which cut short his cross country sc:ason last fall as he won the: two-mile: with a personal­best of8:55. 
The mile: rday of senior tri­captain Jacquc:s Eady, seniors Ron Hyde and Bill Ribera, along with freshman Mitch Van Eyken captured first with a ime of 3:20. Seniors Rick Rogers and Paul Doyle also serve as tri-captains with Eady. 
Van Eyken will hdp out in the sprints as he: is the: rc:igning Eastern States indoor champion and owns personal best of I0.6 in the I00 mc:ters ( 9. 7 in yards) and 2 1.2 in the 200 meters outdoors. Freshman Phil Gilmore: also should be tough in the 
sprints after placing third at Iowa in 
the 60 with a time of 6.4. Andy Dil­
lion will contribute: in the distance 
races after placing third at Iowa in 
the two-mile with a personal bc:st of 
9:04. 
Junior Jan Kania will help out in the running evc:nts aftc:r placing third at Iowa in the: 600. Sc:niorJohn McCloughan is Notre: Dame's top hurdler. Riberia has looked good so far after missing roughly two yc:ars due to injury. He placed third at Iowa in the 440. In the field events a pair offootball players -Rob Fin­negan and Greg Bell -are a welcomed addition to the squad. Finnegan, a freshman, put the shot 48-6 in his first collegiate meet which was good for third place. Bell, a sophomore, and Doyle will be: Notre Dame's top threats in the long jump. 
Doyle also took second in Iowa in the pole vault with junior Steve Chronert third. Freshman Chuck Constable is the Irish's top high jum­per, clearing 7-0 last year which would break Notre Dame's indoor record of6-10. 
Freshman Jim Tyler, who was the nation's tifth-raked high school miler last year, will sit this Friday out with a calf injury. He should be ready for Marquette. Freshman Van Pearcy is rc:covering from a knee in­jury and should be ready around mid-February. Pearcy, the national sophomore record-holer in the 400 meters, owns personal best of 10.3 for 100 meters (9.4 in yards), 21.2 for 200 meters, 46.9 for 400 meters and has long jumped 24-9 I/2. 
• • .Ball St. 
continuedpage 12 
tries. 
Dougherty scored a career-high 
I 5 points to lead the Irish in that 
one. 
Mary Beth Schueth, the tourna­
ment MVP, added I 1 points and 10 
rebounds for Notre Dame. 
Marquette will enter tomorrow's contest with a 7-9 record that doesn't include the outcome of last night's game against Wisconsin­Parkside. Julie Sievers, a junior center who joined Schueth and Ruth Kaiser on the all-tournament team at St. Paul, is the leading scorer for 
Coach Tat Shiely's club, averaging more than 1 7 points per game and 12 rebounds per contest. 
Senior Lisa Morin is the onlyother double-figure scorer for Marquette. She enters the game with a 12 ppg. average. 
In the first meeting between the two schools, Sievers scored just four points and collected seven rebounds, while Morin added six points. 
IRISH ITEMS -In last night's game, Notre Dame bested its seasonal average in three cataguries: turnovers, free throw shooting per­centage and fidd goal defense per­centage. The Irish committed only 14 turnovers, shot 74 percent from the charity stripe (up from 59 per­cent)and limited Ball State to just 33 percent of their shots from the floor (the average is 36) . . The Irish themselves managed only 41 per­cent of their shots from the floor (the average is nearly 50 percent), and gave up 57 points to the Car­dinals, nine more than their nation­leading average among Division I schools . . . As usual, Notre Dame 
outshot its opponents from the foul 
line, connecting on 14-of-19, to Ball 
State's 5-of-9. The Irish committed 
only nine fouls in the game. 

DUll 
Mardi Gras Dancers 
coming: February 8th
Just 2 weeks left to sell sponsorships. 
Must hurry! 
Interviewing: Mechanical Engineers
Highest seller gets a 19" color '.r. V. 
PANDUIT is a leading multi-national
Second highest gets a stereo system. 
manufacturer of electrical, elec­tronic and mechanical components
Also prizes for best dancers. 
with facilities located in Southwest 
suburban Chicago . 
..___It's all for fun and a good cause.-------( 
Ask friends 1: family for support. 
If unable to meet with our Company Representative, please mail your resume to our College Recruiting Coordinator. 

Ihe~~r========================================= 
~~~~~==========================~F=r=id=a=y=,J=a=n=ua=r=y=2=9='=19=8=2===p=a=g=e=l~l 


Michael Molinelli 
5'JHE: ~U'(S WILL CoH£ IN ALL (JJE'fl, 1H~ PUlct~ ... AS 1Nl1URE'P VARSITY ATI!L£1£5.., 
1F THEIR. 1l>£N41Ls All£1\l'r J.i£"AP Tl?AIND~ J:.'V£ 6£EN 
CVfRIC:JHT.. , 5llHr= 6!UYS WoiJL-P!J'r c~ 'N A}(J HAm!)

('>'8\o) 1 GUf.o:5 1. f\M. 
1H£N WHY "'\X)tl'T YOU'VE C:PT 
MY C.\11LtRifN() Wft\T 
YOU G:t-IE 1\LC:t-1(, 11t~£T<; TO OLIT CiC 10WN '"'~ 
\'Iii" !"\£. l'~f (f)\ 1HE KEEN fiN 
WE€K8i0 . 
1WO Cf 1"E f\01· ', li'EVUE!! 1E'::>1 II<.KETS IN I 
10WN
\ 






ACROSS 34 Generous 1 Ollland one 5 Neighbor 35 Word with 
The Daily Crossword 
ofMex. jacket or 10 Capon soup 14 A no-no 36 Occasion· 15 Bikini, e.g. ally 16 Double-reed 40 After taxes 
woodwind 41 Certain 17 Rarely cargo ship 20 Get-of 42 Hazard 
(unload) 43 Earmarked 21 Yarn 45 Skyline 22 First name elements 
of 31D 47 Wished one 23 Chimer hadn't 24 Sunup 48 Pome 26 Frightens substance 29 Threatening 49 Important 33 Judicial 52 Greek 
attire vowel 

Thursday's Solution 





53 Coopers­town's Gehrig 
56 Long time 60 Conjoin 61 Volunteer 62 Kiln 63 Timetable, 
for short 64 "True Grit" star 65 "Eyeless in-" 
DOWN 1 Take­
leave It 2 BengalVIP 3 Opening 
quartet 4 Neighbor 
of Ont. 5 TheSoo­6 To any 
extent 7 Earring 
site 8 Misfortune 9 Common 
ailment 10 Brew 11 Agora coin 12 Merino, e.g. 13 Miss Horne 18 Agenda unit 19 Asner 23-Fox 24 Baghdad 
money 
25 Presently 26 Placeof combat 27 Really 
goes for 28 Works with 29 Cut a swath 30 Biblical 
land 31 Popular 
singer 32 AL team 34 Meted (out) 37 Dieter's 
choice 38 Baseball 
team 39 Stumble 44 Unwrinkled 45 Stitching 46 Blueprint 48 City on the 
Warta 49 Coopers­town's Willie 50 Raging out 
of control 51 Jest 52 Supposi· 
tious 53 Pompeii's 
doom 54 Court cry 55 The Middies 57 Query word 58 "Forwant 
-nail..." 59 Pooch 
Campus 
Friday,Jan. 29 
•to 
a.m. -2 p.m. -Information Boot t h, HOSPICE. Lc::\tans Lobby. Saint Mary's Colkgc:, 

• 
~. 9. I I a.m. -Film, "True: Contt:ssions", Enginc:c:ring Auditorium. S I admission 


•"' -9 p.m. -Opening, Art Exhibition, lkccnt Paintings of :\tarilyn Hock-Tobolski. llammc:s and Littk Thc:atrc: Gallc:rks. 
• 
.., · 9 p.m. -Opening, Art Exhibition. Third An­nual 1-lkks Etd1print. National Invitational Exhibit. :\1orc:au Gallc:ry. 

•7:.~0 
p.m. -Lecture, "Why Challenge: Nudear Arms: Risking a Christian. Archbishop Raymond G. Hunthausen, Seattk, Washington. :\1cmorial Library Auditorium. Sponsored by CILA Education Workshop. 

•"':~0 
p.m. -Film, "The: Decamc:ron", Annenherg Auditorium. Snitl' .\1useum of Art, Sponsorc:d by Dc:partment of Communication and Thc:atrt·. sI admission 

•H 
p.m. -KEENAN REVIEW, O'Laughlin Auditorium. Sponsorl·d by Kl-cnan Hall. University of Notrl· Daml·, SOLD OUT 

•H: 
I~ p.m. -Concert, Notre: Dame and llniver­


sity of :\tichigan Gin· Cluubs. Washington llall. Saturday,Jan. 30 
•l) 
a.m. ·noon -Discussion, Nudear Arms Race, Archbishop Raymond llunthausen. \1emorial Library Lounge. Sponsored hy CILA Educational Workshop. 

• 
I I a.m. -Lecture, :\ts. :\tarilyn Bock:Tobolski will discuss her work, 2JO ,\1oreau llall. 

• 
2 p.m. -Swimming, Notre: Daml· vs. St. Bonan:nturc. Rockne .\1l·morial Pool. •-t p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame: Woml'n vs. .\1ar<.(lll'tll', ACC, 

•H 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre: Daml' :\tl·n vs. Mar­quc:ttl', ACC. 

•H 
p.m. -KEENAN REVIEW, O'Laughlin Auditorium. Sponsored by Kl'l·nan Hall, llnivc:rsity of Notrl· Dame:. SOLD OliT 


Sunday,Jan. 31 
•H p.m. -Faculty Recital, Carol Kndl: Mc:zzo Soprano. Little: Theatre, No Chargt· 
T.V. Tonight 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:."0 p.m. 
12:00 a.m. l.Z:.:\Oa.m. 
16 :-.1 tiC .\1 a~-:a1.i nt· 
22 Dukl·s of llazzarll 
28 All<: Nt·ws SptTial: "FDR" 
34 \X'ashin~o:ton Wt:ck In Rt·vit:w 
46 l.t·stt·r Sumrall Tl'achin~o: 
34 Wall StrtTI \X't·l'k 
46 Thl' R.:n<·w'l'll ,\linll 
16 .\ld.ain's Law 
22 Dallas 
34 Crl'ativity with llill .\1oyl'rs 
46 Tollay with l.l'Stl'r Sumrall 34 lnsillt· Story 16 Tht· Dl'vlin Connl'ction 
22 Fakon Crt·st 
34 Non·l'iction TV 
46 Jimmy ~WaAAart \X'n·kly 16 :-.lt·w s<.l'ntt·r 16 
22 !.l Eyl'witnt·ss Nt·ws 
28 :-.lt·wswatch !.H 
34 Tlw Dick Cavt·tt Show 
46 Praisl' thl' Lord 16 Tonight Show 
22 lkhinll Tht· Snn·n 
28 ABC :-.lt·ws Ni~o:htlinl' 
34 Captionl'll All<. News 22 CIIS l.all' .\1oVil' 28 Saturday Ni~o:ht LiVl' 46 l.estt·r Sumrall Tl'achin~ot 16 SCTV Comt'U)' Nt·twork 46 Thl' Rent'w'l'd .\1ind 
-t 
,. 

Simon 
HEL\..01 FI~EPLU&. 
: N.D. Student Union presents : 
: AmiDNIGHT mOVIEI: 
: Alfred Hitchcock's : 
~ ~ ~ 
___..,_k€€PS ItS PROm IS€ tO you. 
OU want qoob tlm€S, rRI€nbs, anb sp€clals? you'v€ qot '€m this rRI. & Sat. nlt€s. ,L_i.. 
Fri. Nite: fine wine coolers & spritzers! 
: Snturdny, Jnn. 30 : at. Nite Strawberry Daiquiris and : Chnutnuqun Lafortune Balltoom : : Jl oer oerson · : 
···~··'································ 
,..r-----------..... ......--~--.... 
~ 
• 
~ 
·~. 

----~·~--~---~-~---~~------------~---~ -~~-------~­

Neville stars 
Notre Da111e squeaks by Ball St. 
By MARK HANNUKSELA Ball State fought back to tie the gaining a little more confidence the Sports Writer game at 46-46, and it was knotted last few games." four other times after that, the last Junior Shari Matvey's dozen It was, by Coach Mary DiStanis­time at <;4-54 with just under four points led all Notre Dame scorers. lao's own admission, "like two hours minutes lc::ft. while Carrie Bates added I 0. A baseline jumper by Irish fresh­
in the dentist chair, just waiting for Schueth once again led Irish the drilling to stop." man Mary Beth Schucth put Notre rebounders, as she hauled down Shortly after 9 p.m. last night, the Dame ahead to stay, 56-54 with 3:28 nine in her 34-minute stint. drilling finally stopped, and DiStanis­lc::ft, and a pair offree throws by Shari Ball State's Shelley Silk was the lao's Notre Dame women's basket­Matvcy extended the lc::ad to four. game's high scorer, as she finished ball team sneaked off the ACC floor Ball State refused to fold, pulling with 22 points, seven mon· than her with a 60-57 win over Ball State. to within two, 58-56, on a turn­seasonal average, on nine-of-18 In raising its record to I 2-3, Notre around six-footer by Lamping. The shooting from the floor, and four-of­Dame won its eighth straight game, a Cardinals had three chances to pull four from the foul line. 
new club record. even, the last coming with I:30 Guard jane Emkes, who scored 20 The Irish also won for the fifth remaining, but Irish guard Susan points against Notre Dame a season straight time in the ACC. Neville stole:: the ball away from for­ago, was the only other Ball State The loss was Ball State's fifth in a ward Karen Bauer, then connected scorer in double figures last night. row, and dropped the Cardinal on the front end ofa one and one to She made sevcn-of-12 shots from the record to 1-9. put the Irish up by three. floor, and finished with 14 points, 10 
Neither team ever had more than The Cardinals would come no 
of which came in the opening half. a six-point lead in the contest, and closer after that, although they did Although happy with her first win 
things stayed tense until BSU's fresh­have a chance to pull to within one in three tries against Ball State, DiS­man guard, Donna Lamping, missed late in the game. tanislao wasn't entirely pleased with a 12-foot baseline jumper with six Trailing 60-57 with I 4 seconds her squad's overall performance. seconds left. and Notre Dame clung left, Ball State set up a play during a "Our fundamentals totally 
to a three-point lead. timeout, gtvmg DiStanislao the abandoned us tonight," she said. chance set of her best
The loose ball went out ofbounds, to up one "We got a little more aggressive at tactical moves of the evening.
and Irish freshman Laura Dougherty the beginning ofthe second half, but After the timeout, DiStanislao,
dribbled out the clock to preserve we didn't get any more intelligent.whose teams are noted for playing
the victory. You have to make things work ­tight man-to-man defense, showed
Notre Dame did lead throughout you can't just check your bioryt­the Cardinals a full-court zone press
most ofthe second half, thanks large­hems and try to figure out what kind ly to an 8-0 spurt early in the period after the inbounds, only to drop of game you're going to have. You back into a man a few seconds later.
that vaulted the Irish from a two-have to come ready to play every point deficit into their largest lc::ad in "They obviously had a play set up night." the game, 42-36, with 12:30 remain-in the huddle::," DiStanislao said. Neville agreed with her coach." 
ing. "When we dropped back, they "When you win, you start thinking weren't moving in any kind of fluid that you can just go out and beat motion. l didn't see any need for a anybody," she said. "I think we zone there, because that just invites needed a scare like this to make us people to shoot. realize that we have to keep working 
"We wasted a few seconds, hard."
Warriors ready for an Irish brawl 
anyway." With now another record to add Neville scored a career-high 11 to an ever-growing list, the Irish can By CHRIS NEEDLES from halfcourt last January 10, is ship athletes. But Phelps seems to points in the game, seven in the turn their attention to Marquette, 
»-Sports Writer averaging the same amount ofpoints have found the right combi:1ation -second half. tomorrow's 4 p.m. opponent. as his freshman year ( 15 ppg), but is The 5-9 freshman from Decatur, The Irish and Warriors met in the 
Paxson, Mitchell, Varner, Tim
Bombs away. Again. shooting just 45 percent from the AI., also pulled down four rebounds finals of the Dial Classic in St. Paul, Andree and Barry Spencer, with
Just when the nets at the ACC had floor (down from 55 percent a year and handed out as many assists in 27 Minn., almost three weeks ago, and cooled off from Idaho's sizzling ago). minutes ofaction. Notre Dame prevailed, 50-36, it's freshman _Ron Rowan a~d sopho-"I felt good," Neville said after her second win over Marquette in five
shooting performance Monday It seems that Rivers may be the more Ccctl Rucker commg off the performance. "I've been feeling
night, along comes Marquette, who key to tomorrow night's game. see BALL ST. page 10
bench.

takes on red-hot Notre Dame tomor­According to Coach Hank --------_ ______________..Q£~.!__ty_gQpg itJL\Ye_t;k_,_~ncl I've_ J)s~n row night at the ACC at 8 p.m. Raymonds, Rivers has had shooting The Warriors feature nearly the problems in the past. "You'll see a same type of attack as the departed much improved Glenn Rivers as the Weekendseries Vandals, but with not as much season goes on," he says. "His talent success. Two quick guards -Glenn was evident last season as a starter, Rivers and Michael Wilson -play but I think his shot will improve. 
leers prepare for Michigan Tech 
shoot 'em up, and hope for the front That will make him an all-around line to clean up the rebounds if they threat." 
By MICHAEL OLENIK heiver of the group with 30 points, .;coring records.
miss. .Across the front line, Marquette is 
Sports Writer while linemate Rick Boehm leads Also needing mention for the
Which, unlike Idaho, is often. lead by a pair of6-7 forwards, sopho­the team with I 5 goals. Notre Dame attack is the play of
As a team. Marquette shoots onlv more Marc Marotta ( 10 ppg) and 
Lefty Smith will take his team on With each of the second and third Smith's fourth line of Mark Doman,
4"i percent from the tloor, but sine~ junior Terrell Schlundt ( ') ppg). The 
the road this weekend with an im­line's centers with 27 points apiece, Dave Lucia, and Dan Collard. Con­
••the Warriors hold their opponents Warrior center, 6-9 senior Dean pressive series against Bowling Michigan Tech obviously has the sidered to be more ofa checking line
to under 43 pc:rcent, one can sec Marquardt, never has been the 
Green and a week of fine tuning be­ability to keep pressure on any team, by the Irish coaches, the three have
why their rc:cord is a lofty I 3-6. dominant force he was ticketed to 
Which, also unlike Idaho, was be in his four-year career hind them. Unfortunately for the -and the Irish will probably be no ex­pc:rli>rmed superbly in recent
since 

Irish, the games tonight and Satur­cc:ption. weeks. By scoring two important
accrued against formidable opposi­suffering serious injuries in a car day afternoon with the: Michigan If the Huskies have any chinks in goals in last Saturday's game with
tion. accident two summers ago. This 
Tc:ch Huskies will anything hut a their armor. it would have to be Bowling Green, the line has es­While the: Warriors have: not season, .\1arquardt averages seven rc:spite. their defense. Dc:spite the fact that tablished itself as scoring threat to
bc:aten any rankc:d tc:ams this yc:ar, points and six rc:bounds a game. 
Considering that John ,\1aclnnes' goaltender Tom Allen to­any fact gives Smith
thc:y have lost valiantly to a few of Freshman fi>rward Dwayne has put team, a that 
squad is presenttv third in the: CCHA gether an I 1-2-0 record and has an much reason to smile.
them..\tarquettc: has fallen to con­.Johnson has been an impressive and ranked sixth in both major hock­c:ye-opening ;'1.6'1 goals against mark, In goal for the lri~h wtll once againference power~ Kansas ~tate. Iowa sixth man. pouring in eight points a ..:y polls. the: Irish will he severely ·"lichigan Tc:ch as a team is giving up be: Dave Laurion, who \'v"ill be:and Wake Forc:st (the latter two in game::, li.Jurth on the team. 
tested as they continue to build on a almost -1.30 goals per game-a note looking to get himself back on the
overtime). Its other losses have The Warriors will he running 
streak that includes only two losses ofdefinite interest to the high-tlying right track after a derailment againstcome to a tough Southwest head on into a Notre: Dame team that in their last eight games. With one of Irish forwards. Bowling Green. The senior nowLouisiana team ( H 1-6--i) in the finals is playing its bc::st basketball of the 
the wins coming against Tech in the However, JeffJohnston and Tony shows a g.a.a. of 3.93, and he will be
of the Great Alaskan Shootout, and season. The Irish, now 6-10, have Great Lakc:s championship game, the Stiles will be willing, rc:ady and able backed up by Bob McNamara if thealso to Minnesota ( 76-S-1) aml. last won three in a row, and four of their sc:ries should show much of the in­to at least slow down the Notre situation calls.
Wednesday, to Memphis State (77-last five, since the beginning of 70). second semester. Phelps feels his 
tensity displayed a week ago against Dame attack that has averaged 6.08 In all, the series will offer the Irish Bowling Green. goals a game in their last 12 contests. another challenge as they attempt to"Marquette is a very good basket­team is on a roll. 
Split aside, Smith saw mostly good The two, along with Mark Palkovich, escape their seventh place standingball team," says Irish Coach Digger "We're playing to win now in­
coming from last week's affair. "Sure, have played well enough on both and make a move towards a home
Phelps. "We're going to have to be stead of playing not to lose," says I was disappointed that we didn't sides of the blueline to be playoff berth.
patient offensively and work hard to Phelps. "Our kids believe in them­
sweep the series, but I can't fault our Macinnes's most reliable defenders.
keep Wilson and Rivers from taking selves now, so there's no telling kids' effort in the least. We just keep They had better be reliable if over the game." what they can accomplish. I think 
battling and coming back -you can Michigan Tech has any hopes of
Wilson, a 6-4 senior from they realize they've turned things 
I INSIDE 
never count us out, " offered Smith stopping the Notre Dame scoringMemphis, Tenn., is Marquette's around. 
earlier in the week. "I've really been machine known as Dave Poulin. Inleading scorer. He averages about I 7 Guard John Paxson boosted his proud of the way our team has been his last 12 games, the Mississauga,
poims a game and shoots 50 percent scoring average:: to I 5 ppg by virtue playing lately, but we are going to Ontario native has accounted for 19 
T;..-zck-pg.l0 
from the floor. Rivers, who Irish fans of his career-high 24 points ir. Wc::d­
have to keep playing that way if we goals (including three hat tricks)know and hate from the Warriors' nesday's 79-5S mauling of the Maine 
expect success in the future. We still and eight assists, enough ~o earn him
54-<;2 victory in last year's matchup, Black Bears. Bill Varner and Mike ::~ating-pg. 9 
have a long road ahead of us." CCHA player-of-the-week nomina­has suffered through somewhat of a Mitchell also were impressive:: that That road will at least be tions thrc::e weeks in a row. Poulin'ssophomore jinx this season. night, as each hit for 14 points. 
obstructed by this Huskie team that 21 goals and 22 assists for the yearThe 6-4 second-year man from The amazing thing is that the Irish 
13riejs-pg.8
features seven players with 20 place him fourth in the leagueChicago's powerful Proviso East, are excelling with only ten healthy points or more this season. Sopho­scoring race, and he is quickly
~ who beat ND with a last-second shot players, seven of which are scholar-more Steve .\1urphy i~ the overac-closing in on a number of Irish 
..-r~-.-........~~··­



