G'oors -page 6 

VOL. XVII, NO. 18 the indqK"nd~·lll ..,llldelll new..,paper ..,crYing notre Jamt· and saint mary':-. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1982 
U.S., France announce plans to send forces 
( AP) -President Reagan and Mitterrand said the first contin­French President Francois Mitter­gent of French paratroopers would rand, reacting to the massacre of be in Lebanon t "within three days." hundreds of Palestinian refugees in He said they were being sent at the Beirut, announced yesterday that request ofthe Lebanese government America and France would join Italy "to protect the civilian population" and send peacekeeping forces back and to contribute to "a return of the to the bloodied Lebanese capital. whole country to the exclusive 
They made their announcements authority of the legitimate govern­simultaneously in Washington and ment" of Lebanon. Paris. In Rome, the Foreign Ministry Reagan, in a television address, confirmed that Italy would con­said the "participation of American tribute troops to the three-nation forces in Beirut will again be for a peace force force. limited time." He also reported that 
An Israeli official in Jerusalem, his special envoy, Philip C. Habib, who asked not to be identified, said will return to the Middle East. Prime Ministt:r Menachem Begin's Habib negotiated the agree.ment Cabinet would discuss the new mul­that led to the evacuation of about tinational force at a meeting today. 8,000 PLO guerrillas from west 
In the two ravaged refugee camps Beirut to various Arab countries last in Moslem west Beirut, Red Cross month under the protection of the workers continued their grisly task, U.S.-French-italian force. 
Notre Dame's AlumniAssociation bas taken to games_ an at away games, Michigan State, Navy, 
collectiflg 120 bodies and preparing Israel invaded Lebanon June 6 to 
the road this year with the introduction of a and Prttsburgh. The van willalso be used to visit
a mass grave for many ofthe victims. drive the PLO out of Lebanon. Syria 
mobile hospitality center. This z•an will be Notre Dame clubs within 400 miles of the
Estimates of the number of people still has an estimated 25,000 soldiers 
located near the stadium at all home football campus.
slain in the weekend massacre in the Bekaa Valley of eastern ranged from at least 300 by the U.S. Lebanon. government to 1,400 by the A senior State Department official Palestine Libertion Organization. said the U.S. unit of some 800 Arts and Letters 
Virtually all the victil:ns were Marines would be deployed within Palestinian or Lebanese Moslems., 72 hours, and the total force would and the slaughter has been blamed be around 2.1 no as before. 


Anthropology, sociology separate
on Lebanese Christian militias. Many world leaders have said Israel must There were 800 .'iarines from the share responsibility since it sent U.S. 6th Fleet in the previous force By SONYA STINSON from its former connection with the were always somewhat hidden. The army units into west Beirut last and they remained in Beirut for I 7 SeniorStaffReporter department ofSociology. interest in Anthropology ha~ notably Wednesday, the day after President­days, suffering no casualties. One The division was the result of a increased in the first month of elect Bashir Gemayel was killed in a French officer was killed by sniper. Anthropology is now an inde­unanimous vote of the Academic school," Moore said. bomb blast. Gemayel headed the France sent 850 paratroopers and pendent department in the College Council and took effect this semes­Still in the planning stages is a Christian Phalange Party. Italy dispatched 530 infantrymen. of Arts and Letters, branching off ter. Chairing the new department is graduate program in Anthropology. 
Professor Kenneth Moore. former When the proposal for forming the director of the Anthropology new department wa~ made, there program in the combined depart­was some concern about how a new ment. graduate program would effect the "We had discussed regularly the graduate programs in other depart· 
possibility of separation. Until now ments, Moore said. 
Holy L'ross Associates 

NDgraduates serve in Chile 
we had always thought it wasn't "In a graduate program, you have feasible. This time we decided to put to have a certain number of assis­out some feelers to the University tantships. There was a limited 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE demonstrate "a commitment to of my education. I have a personal 
and inquire as to whether they amount of money, and some depart­
SeniorStaffReporter spending time with the priority of desire to learn about another 
would be against it," Moore said. ments feared we would daim somesocial issues and lay ministry," country by living there and soaking When no one voiced any objec­of their money," he explained.
it all in. I want to learn about their
Three Notre Dame graduates will Regatti said. 

tions, a series of formal proposals "We decided not to push that be part of a five member group "It is a really exciting thing for me language and arrive at an acceptance were made to various reviewing case. We simply put it aside with the -of their culture."
giving two years of service in San­to do become part of the New councils and chairpersons. Profes­intention ofdealing with it later, and

Hellinghausen, a French major
tiago, Chile through the Holy Cross Church and the recent involvement sor Andrew Weigert, chairman of we will re-submit the plan to the Associates Program. of lay people in the Church. I feel who studied in Angers during her the department of Sociology, sup­graduate council in the next year or After completing an application grateful that there are people at sophomore year said that the time ported the move and made presenta­so," he continued. 

process involving personal inter­Notre Dame who help those who are aspect of the commitment will be tions along with Moore.
the hardest for her to deal with. "But
views and explorations, Joe Regatti, interested in this." 

"It follows the long term trend forThe money that the associates I don't think I could benefit as muchLiz Hellinghausen, and Dan Bell each discipline to have its ownearn from their work of service is from this program if I didn't stay for were selected as Holy Cross As­
department," Weigert said of the '... it follows the 
put into a common budget. This two years," she said.
sociate candidates. 

decision. "It's a natural evolutionarybudget covers administrative ex-"I come from a middle-class back­During their last semester at process."
Notre Dame, they prepared them­penses and is used for food, medical ground and I feel I have something long term trend 
Weigert thinks the move will helpinsurance, and transportation.. A to gain from living a simple life. Theselves by taking courses and attend­the Sociology department by reduc­
small amount of spending money is community aspect is also important. familiarize them with Latin America given to each individual associate. The sense of community is another ing its size and allowing more ef­for each disciplineing seminars which would ficiency. Having only one discipline
"Notre Dame presented me with thing we are striving to work out.
and the life oflay ministry. 

in a department also removes a lot ofthe opportunity, the challenge to ex-We will explore the feasibility of"The program revolves around ambiguity, he said. to have itsamine social issues and to become community living as a way oflife."
living a simple, Christian lifestyle in 
He further commented that the

involved with these concerns "As a U.S. citizen I think it will also a Christian community," Regatti separation eliminates the minority­through programs offered by the be important to learn and under­
said. majority relati<,nship that existed own department. 
Center for Experiential Learning and stand how my lifestyle and l!.S.
"I think this experience will affect between the t~o disciplines.

Volunteer Services," Regatti said. policy affects the lifestyle of thethe way we live our lives. l.iving 
Weigert anticipates no major"These and people Chile,"
simply will be an important part of challenges my ex-in Hellinghausen changes in the Sociology depart­Both Moore and Weigert are op­periences in dealing with them said.
the experience. 

ment. "We are just going to continue timistic about the benefits of the
prompted me to become involved "I don't consider this a sacrifice,""'This experience may help in for­some of the projects already under­separation. "I think that the divisionwith the Holy Cross Assoiciates she added. I have a lot to learnming a world view, in building a per­way, such as the program in the will strengthen the presence of the
from these people -their spirit and
sonal concept of what things are program 

sociology of religion and the inter­critical social sciences here at the important and essential in our life. While an undergraduate faith. And I want to become a person nship programs," he said. "We look University," Weigert stated.
for all people."

We'll explore priorities and relation­philosophy major. Regatti wa~ active forward to continued interdiscipli­Autonomy brings responsibilitiesships. I'd venture to guess that we'll in many programs sponsored by The five members of the group nary work with the department of as well as rewards to the department
will spend the month of October in

comt: back with a better-developed both the Volunteer Services Or­Anthropology." ofAnthropology.
language school in Cuernavaca. In

sense ofwhat is important in life." ganization and the Center for Ex­According to Moore, the move "The major problem is also the The number of applicants in the periential Learning. He feels that the mid-November they will begin their allowed Anthropology major advantage," Moore said. 
Holv Cross Associates program has annual CEI. sponsored urban plunge work in Santiago. A new community ha~ the department to come out of its back­"Before we were not always held ac­is "an excellent introduction to the is being formed in Vallanare, a ruralbeen increasing yearly. The selec­ground position and become more countable for our mistakes. We aretion and orientation process arc kinds of issues that the Holy Cross area to the north of Santiago. Some visible. now accountable for the mistakes
ofthe group may become part ofthis
tlcxible and depend on the numbt:r Associates program presents." 

"One reason for separation is that, we make and for our successes: Andetfort.
ofpeople interested in the program. Bellinghausen said, "I feel that tht being in a combined department, we that's the way it should be."
Those who are chosen associates program b a continuation 




t 


News Brie/§ 
lh !her)hsen•er and Ibe Assuciuted Press 
The IndianaHouse Democratic Caucus is looking for col­lege students who want to serve as legislative interns during the 1983 session of the General Assembly. To qualify, students must be enrolled in a graduate or undergraduate program in one oflndiana's colleges or universities and have an interest in the Legislature. The House Democrats will select five interns who will serve from January through April 30, when the Legislature is required to ad­journ. "Interns will be afforded the opportunity to gain valuable practical knowledge about Indiana's legislative system while gaining college credit for this learning experience," said House Minority Leader Michael K Phillips, D-Boonville. Phillips noted that the inter­ns will be paid for their services. People interested in the internship program should contact Delores Collins of tile House Democratic Caucus at the Statehouse for an application. -AP 
The Oil glut that knocked the bottom out of Mexico's economy has hit Alaska, but some political leaders are calling it a healthy change for a state grown used to easy money. Oil was dis­covered at Alaska's Prudhoe Bay in 1969, and revenue from state wells and from taxes on private wells have been helping to run the state government ever since. State spending has increased at an average annual rate of 24 percent since 1969, according to the Legislature's finance office. The state repealed its income tax in 1980 and now it's getting rid of surplus oil revenue by giving residents $1,000 each. This year the Legislature was forced to remake the budget in midstream after revenue officials overestimated oil income by about S 1.6 7 billion. The S 3 billion state budget is now about $1.5 billion less than last year's budget, due largely to a plunge in wellhead prices that saw Prudhoe Bay crude fall from S25 to 
519.50 a barrel in 18 months. Roughly 90 percent of the budget is fueled by income from oil taxes and royalties on oil-producing lands owned by the state, says state budget chief Ron Lehr. -AP 
The UnitedAuto Workers'executive board met 
privately yesterday as prospective candidates geared up to receive 
campaign instructions for the job of retiring president Douglas A. 
Fraser. The 26-member UAW executive committee was expected to 
lift a moratorium on politicking, according to UAW spokesman 
David E. Mitchell. That would give contenders the right to call them­
selves candidates and campaign openly to run the 1.2 million­
member organization. Fraser has reached the union's mandatory 
retirement age of 65. He has been president since Leonard Wood­
cock resigned in 1977 and will retire after the union convention in 
Dallas May 1 5. Among the top contenders are Donald Ephlin, 56, the 
UAW vice president in charge of the Ford Motor Co. department; 
Owen Bieber, 52, vice president in charge of the General Motors 
Corp. department; Raymond Majerus, 58, the UAW secretary­
treasurer who also heads the American Motors Corp. department, 
and Stephen Yokich, 47, the vice president in charge of the farm 
implements department. -AP 
An Illinois couplewas robbed about midnight Satur­day following the Notre Dame-Michigan football game as they were walking to their car parked in the vicinity ofSt. Vincent and Francis streets. Mark and Mary Lewis, ofOak Lawn, Ill., apparently were ap­proached by two men, one ofwhich was carrying a handgun and the other carrying a stick. The robbers demanded money from the vic­tims and made offwith about 540 cash from Lewis in addition to his wallet and its contents. The robbers took about S 16 cash from his 
Tuesday, September 21, 1982 -page 2 

A Human Debacle 
I first saw it on the Cable News Network late Sunday. 
A Lebanese Red Cross worker wearing a gauze mask was 
loading the stiffened corpse ofa pregnant woman onto a 
truck in Beirut. It was a grisly sight, that both shocked 
and sickened me. At first I was appalled that such a 
gruesome scene had been allowed to air. Then I became 
mad. Those pictures -ugly as they were -brought 
home to me the tragedy ofthe Mideast. 
As long as TV news has existed, the never-ending 
drama ofthe Israelis and Arab worlds has unfolded. The 
number ofwars brought into our living rooms is count­
less. Yc;t most Americans have been unaffected by this 
carnage. Sure, "it's terrible," and the other emotions are 
casually expressed. But how many of us have tried to 
comprehend this tragedy? Not many. 
TheJewish population of this country is aware ofthis situation. They have used their political intluence to guarantee strong support of Israel by the United States. Through our political and military aid, the Jews have built a nation that has survived amidst a sea of mortal enemies. In doing so, however, they have angered and annoyed their Arab neighbors, none of whom ever got along with each other to begin with. 
There is no one faction to blame. Everyone is at fault. When the Jews moved into the Mideast, they didn't find a welcome mat. Since then, they haven't been the best of neighbors. In fact, the Is­raelis are the kind of neigh­bors who would dynamite your house if your dog strayed into their yard. The Palestinians, those people named after the land where Jesus Christ preached brot­herly love, have been scat­tered from their land and have responded by blowing up planeloads of innocent people, and killing Olympic athletes. 
After being soundly beaten time after time by the Israelis, the Syrians continue their lame attempts at revenge. About the only thing they have accomplished is to cause more death. The other Arab states alternate between feuding with each other and the Israelis. Added to this bunch of arrogant rowdies are the two major super powers. Although their motives are different, the United States' and Rus­sia's sales ofsophisticated arms have allowed these con­flicts to result in additional death and destruction. 
Thus, the Mideast has appeared as a soap opera to America. The warring tribes, constant chaos, and chang­ing loyalties have been fascinating to follow. How interesting would this be ifwe lived there, or it was like that here? It would not be interesting at all; it would be hell. Imagine your home town divided into armed camps, with roving thugs shooting people at will. You can't call the cops because they don't exist, you can't calf your congressman because he has been blown up 
by a car bomb, and every so often a bomb crashes into 
your living room. 
This unpleasant situation was brou:~ht home to me by 
Sunday night's pictures. I saw Beirut as my home town, 

and the dead woman as my loved one. I realized what an outrage the slaughter of the Palestinians is. What a travesty ofhumanity the Mideast has become. Enough is enough. Beirut at one time was considered to be the "Paris of the Mideast." In every respect it measured up to the finest cities in Ameri.€a; it has or_llad, long beaches, palm-lined boulevards, and a very good sym­phony. It even had a Holiday Inn, which became a rebel stronghold and was destroyed. 
You can't even find any discernable sides in Beirut. There are the Christians and the Moslems fighting to see which religion the people will turn to for comfort and solace; the Israelis who have bludgeoned their way in, in hopes ofeliminating the Palestinians down to the last pet dog; and remnants of the Lebanese Army trying to get the others out of what once was their country. The 
-..._...._ city has become a circus for the world. And what has the world done to help? The United Nations has sent in "observers," who have ob­served a lot of death. The United States, caught be­tween a rock and a hard place, is only now beginning to apply pressure on the crazed Begin government to. show restraint. The Soviet Union is gleefully watching the chaos, and hoping it will be able to further its slimy intluence in the area. 
The question that must be 

asked is: "When will the kill­ing stop?" Must everyone die first? The methodical kill­ing ofseveral hundred innocent people, no matter what their political persuasion, demands an outcry. The Is­raeli people are embarrassed by their troops' tacit ap­proval ofthe latest slaughter. They know that next week it could be a busload of their school children. 
The people of the world must demand an end to the bloodshed. Ifwe all can butt into the situation, then we might as well intervene in the name of peace. The ac­complishments of modern civilization don't add up to much if humans can't even behave like animals-who only kill to eat. 
Observer note_________, 
The Observer is always seeking new reporters. No experience is necessary. Call 239-5303 from 1 to 4 
p.m. or stop into the Observer office on the third tloor of Lafortune. 
wife, including her purse and contents. -The Obsen,er 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Young 
Democrats met last night to elect new oftlcers for the 1982-83 school year. New officers include the following: Jim Malackowski, President; Mike Brogioli, Vice President; and Kristi Stathis, Secretary. The club made plans to aid Richard Bodine's Congressional campain in the 3rd District of Indiana. Malackowski and outgoing President Tom Gruscinski will chair the Bodine campaign on campus. -The Observer 
A Conference on Marriage preparation will be 
spgnsored by the United Religion Community of Saint Joseph 
County September 22 from 10-3 at the Monogram room of Notre 
Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center. Father James Burtchaell, 
Professor Stan Hauerwas, and Father Frederick Pfotenhauer, all of 
the Theology Department, will speak at the conference. -Jhe Ob­
server 

Partly cloudy todayand cool. High in mid and u~per 50s. Clearing tonight and very cool with a chance ofscattered hght frost in outlying areas. Low in upper 30s and low 40s. Tomorrow, mostly sunny and cool. High in low and mid 60s. -AP 
The Observer 
Oesil{ll Editor.... . . ....... Tim Nc:ely /Je....·t';.:n Assistants . .................. Laura Puk 
Kc:n Ct:rahona 

l.uyout Stajf... . .............. Sarah Jlamilton Ruth lknq l)·pesetlers..... . ................ jim madt·nnan lom :\1ad.t'nmm .Vt•U.'S Editor... . ............... Midu.·k I)it:'tz Copy Editor... . ...... Valerie: E\'an~ H& T l.ayout .. . ............ Alex Szilva' Edilon'ab; Layout.... ........ Paul .\1c(iinn 
Sports Cop)' Editor..... .... Rich O'Connor 
(J•pists.... ..... . ....... Kar~n Miranda. Valerie Evan!\. Chris Pt:rry . 
.\laq· llcth Porl~r .U/COar Editor ................ Tari Jlrown Ad /Jesign.. .. .....Jeanni~ Euch Photographer..... . . ........ Pete Lacher Guest Appeurances.............. (iut·st Systc:m 
Brut't' wc:nr to Hen's 
:-J~ellle' 
Slic.kr Stahrawa & fuzzhc:all 

rou desen•e a break todt~)' 
The Observer 1 USPS 59B 9201 '' p~Oitshed Mondoy throuqh Fnday ami on horne fuolbdll SdturrJdyS exr epl dur1ng exarn arHj vac.at1un pen1His The Observer 15 publtshed by the students 
of Notre Da•ne and Sa"'' Marys C"l lege SubscnpltcJns cnay be purr hased lor S25 per year 1 S I 5 per sernester 1tJ y wntrng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dacne lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a •nP•nber "' The Associated Press All repruclu< '" ;n "9hls are reserved 
Second class postagp pa~<.1 at N• 1lr» Darne Indiana 46556 

UNITED WAY STUDENT CAMPAIGN 
Attention All Hall Representatives 

~-t\~e ~e-Mandatory Meeting Tonight Sept. 21st in St. Ed's Hall Lounge at 7:30pm 
.r----------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 

Guerrillas threaten to kill 80hostages 
SAN PEDOR Sl'LA, IIONDl RAS ( AP)-The anti-terrorist Cohra Bat­talion yesterday ringed the building where guerrillas held an estimated HO hostages, including two Cabinet ministers, and negotiators tried to end the four day siege. 
About I 0 guerrillas, who shot their way into the Chamber of Com­mmerce building 1-riday, h:n:e made repeated threat~ to kill the hostages unless the llondu ran govern nwnt frees HO people tht" gunrillas sa> are being held a~ political prisoners. 
A top Honduran oftkial, \'..-110 re­
quested anonymit), said it was 
hoped that the arrival Sunday of 
Andrea Cordero de Montezemolo, 
the papal nuncio t(Jr Honduras and 
Nicaragua, would help speed the 
negotiations betwet·n the govern­
mcnt and the guerrillas. 
Col. Daniel Beli Castillo, hcad of 
thc Honduran security forces, said 
ycsterday he was unaware of any 
plans to take the building by force. 
Members of the anti-terrorist Cobr:l 
Battalion and scores of other army 
soldiers ~ook positions around the 
one-story building in this industrial 
city 110 miles northwest ofthe Hon­
duran capital ofTegucigalpa. 
Officials said a three-man team made up of the papal nuncio, the bishop of Tegucigalpa, Monsignor Jaime Brufau, and Venezuelan Charge D'affairs in Honduras, Hugo Alvarez, was conducting the negotiations. The government says the team is autonomous but has indi­cated any deal must be cleared before it will be accepted. 
Negotiations with the guerrillas 
started Saturday, the day after about 
the guerrillas stormed the building 
where 1OS people, mostly business­
men, were attending an economic 
conference. One guard was killed 
and two hostages wounded during 
the takeover. 
At least 19 hostages have been freed ami at least three more have escaped, although there are contlict­ing reports on specitlc numbers. \laj. Armando Calidonio said yester­day that all female hostages have been released. 
The guerrillas, who identify them­
selves as members of the 
Cinchonero Popular Liberation 
\lovement, have threatened 
repeatedly to kill the hostages if 
their demands are not met. 
The guerrillas and the govern­
ment said two American citizens 
were being held along with about a 
dozen other foreigners, but a U.S. 
Embassy spokesman said no 
Americans were in the building. 
The guerrillas have made eight demands, including the release of about 80 people they say the government holds as political prisoners. Honduras says it holds no political prisoners. 
Honduras, the poorest country in Central America, has been plagued by sporadic guerrilla attacks since January, when a civilian government headed by President Roberto Suazo Cordoba replaced a 10-year-old military regime. 
that registration for the student lot­
Ojj~campus crime tery of Michigan State football tick­ets will be held September 21-23 in the Irish Gardens at La Fortune. Stu­dents must have their I.D.s and can
More incident,r; add to increase 
By MICHELE DIETZ 
Assistant News Editor 
Off-campus crime is on the up­
swing, as three separate incidents 
involving Notre Dame students 
were reported within the last three 
days. 
One Notre Dame student was held at gunpoint in his house on Notre Dame Avenue at 9:30p.m. last night. The student reported that a young man between the ages of l 5 
and 19 came in the front door and held him at gunpoint while an ac­complice entered a side window. The student escaped to call the 
New Jersey Democrats cast ballots 
NewJersey Democrats wanting to cast an absentee ballot in the upcoming November elections should tilt out an absentee registra­tion form within the week. 
The  forms  can  be  provided by  
Rich  Henke  at  .W..,  Cavanaugh  
( 1-t 15)  or  Tom  O'Leary  at  .)22  

Alumni ( 11H-t ). The state of New Jersey will verify the registration 
and mail hack a ballot. 
r~ 
~~~ JStyling j
~·· ·. '"·'""''~~' I
f' Q
Phone 133-4957 
-211H~-_wnwn~t&Wf 
police at a neighbor's house while the trespassers' backs were turned. In the meantime, they escaped. 
Nothing was stolen, and accord­ing to the victim, the police arrived within minutes, took fingerprjnt checks, and were "very thorough". 
Fifteen minutes later, another NO students' house on Eddy Street was broken into. One resident reported that, upon entering his house, he noticed two stereos and a set ofkeys were missing and that the German Shepherd was locked in an upstairs room. No one was home at the time of the theft, but the doors and win­dows had previously been locked and bolted. No suspects were detained. 
At kick-offtime, ( 8 p.m.), Saturday night two neighboring houses on South Bend Avenue were broken in­to, one of which was robbed. Various articles were stolen, at an es­timated replacement value of $1200. Included were two stereos, a 
television set, a couple of cameras, clock radios and calculators, SSO in change, a watch and a class ring. 
According to one of the victims, the trespassers were breaking into the second house when caught by neighbors who held a gun to one suspect while the other managed to escape. This suspect is being held for invest South Bend Police. 

on the first home football game against Michi­gan. (Photo by Pete Laches) 


Michigan game 
Burke praises stucient body behavior 
ByDANKOPP "l was much more pleased with StaffReporter the student's behavior than with the alumni's behavior," he said. He The Notre Dame Student Body noted that he had heard of no acted commendably during the problems caused by students during weekend of the Michigan football the weekend. "Maybe the alumni 
game said Student Body President should take note of that," he said. Lloyd Burke at last night's student Also at the meeting, Student Uni­senate meeting. 
on Director Steve Strake announced 
only register for one ticket. Seniors, juniors and sophomores are all­None of the stolen articles were ocated 100, HS and 70 tickets,recovered. 
respectively, while freshmen,The victim said that no fingerprints graduate students, and Saint Mary'swere taken by the South Bend police students will share 145 tickets.
and no solutions have been found. 
"Students can try to prevent these In other business, Burke an­things, hut that doesn't take care of nounced that the student govern­the problem," said Bill Colleran, Off­ment's drive to register voters for Campus Commissioner. "1fthey (the the November elections resulted in -t 7 students registering to vote in St. Joseph county. "That's not a lot, but it's something," he said. 
Also last night, Student Body Vice President Bob Yonchak reported that he has sent out 165 leners to local businesses asking them to tell him ofany job opportunities for stu· dents that they may have. He plans to publicize all positive responses. "Now we're just waiting for replies," he said. 
Finally, Burke asked that the stu­dent senators form a committee lO study the use of alcohol at Notre Dame. He called for a "heightened awareness of alcohol, its uses and abuses at this university." He wants such a committee to decide whether the student government and the ad­ministration should take any action on the problem. ''I'd say, by a very conservative estimate, that there's at least one alcoholic in every donn," Burke said. 

trespassers) want to break in, they can. Other measures besides locking doors must be taken." 
A newsletter was sent to off­
Conklin ojlnjo !)ervices campus students with advice for crime victims. Only Campus-View Apts. residents received it, however, 


to editNp Magazine
because the Registrar does not yet have addresses of other off-campus students. Colleran asked in the Rich~rd W. Conklin, director of newsletter that anyone with a information services at the Univer­problem call him at 2.)4-42.)4. sity of Notre Dame, will serve as ac­
Colleran added that he thinks the tin.g editor of Notre Dame Magazine 
crime problem is increasing. Two while a search is made for a new weekends ago ND students were editor of the Alumni publication. robbed on Francis Street. Stereo and Conklin's appointment was made 
camera equipment and a TV were bv Dr. James W. Frick vice president stolen, amounting to approximately f~r public relations, alumni affairs, S1000, according to Colleran. 
Also, on Friday, September 2, two and development. Ronald R. Parent, editor of the award-winning magazine since its inception in 1972, died last month ofleukemia. 
Conklin will continue to direct press relations at the University while temporarily assuming respon­sibility for the magazine. 

Campus-View apartments were burglarized, according to the Saint Joseph County Sheriffs department, 
lrtTEilESTED lrt TAKirtQ A 
and stereo equipment was stolen from each apartment. There is no 

CLASS lrt BALLROOM DArtCirtQ? 
evidence leading to the solution of either of these cases. 


Beginning September ZZ a five we~k course will be held on Saint

~iiiiiiil&ejourney toalifeiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
Mary·s campus in the Regina Hall basement lounge from 6:15pm to 7:45pm SIGrt UP rtOW lrt THE SfilrtT MfiRY·s STUDErtT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 

------------------------------------------------------·----------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, September 21, 1982 -page 4 
Re-election campaign, 




Funds turned over to widow 

INDIANAPOUS (ap) 
Thousands ofdollars in unspent con­
tributions to the re-election cam­
paign ofthe late Congressman Adam 
Benjamin Jr. will be turned over to 
his widow, with the blessing of 
federal election law. 
Peter J. Visclosky, an aide to Ben­jamin and the former treasurer of the Adam Benjamin Jr. Congres­sional Committee, said a substantial portion of the sum has already been transferred to Patricia Benjamin. 
"Adam would just want her to have those dollars as quickly as pos­sible," Visclosky said in a telephone interview from WashingtQn. 
The rest will be given to her once 
the campaign committee's bills are 
paid and the books are closed. All 
told, Mrs. Benjamin will get some­
thing in the range of $20,000 to 
S25,000, Visclosky said. 
Benjamin, a Democrat who 
represented Indiana's 1st Congres­
sional District for three terms, died 
over the Labor Day weekend in his 
Capitol Hill apartment. A coroner's 
report said the 47-year-old 
congressman died of hardening of 
the arteries. 
A little-known federal law permits 
members of Congress who were 
elected before 1980 to keep any left­over campaign contributions when they retire or are defeated. 
"Excess campaign funds can be used for any lawful purpose, includ­ing conversion to personal use, so long as they (the congressmen) were elected before 1980," ex­plained Sharon Snyder assistant press officer for the Federal Election Commission in Washington. 
Among the "lawful purposes" the 
law recognizes are for the retiring 
congressman to keep the money 
himself, give it to charity, give it to 
other federal campaigns withicer­
tain limits, give it to his political 
party or use it to defray any future 
expenses he may have as a result of 
being an officeholder. 
Senate fails to curtail filibuster 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate jurisdiction over the prayer tssue, conservatives, still seeking their first including any law approved by a victory in a month-long debate over state legislature or a ruling by lower 
social issues, failed by 10 votes yes­terday to curtail a filibuster against legislation designed to restore or­ganized prayer to public schools. 
The Senate voted to limit the prayer debate to 100 hours, but 60 votes are required to invoke the procedural move, known as cloture. 
But Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., and his conservative allies planned to try again today, and both sides conceded privately they would eventually win cloture. Twenty-one senators were absent for the vote yesterday. 
Still, time appeared to be on the side of liberals led by Sen. Lowell Weicker, R-Conn., despite the politi­cal popularity ofthe prayer measure. 
The legislation urged by Helms court. 
Liberals said they would use all available parliamentary tactics to avert a direct up or down vote on the issue. 
The volatile social issues fight, delayed for a year and a half, ap­peared to be far from over. 
, Despite the likely outcome of the cloture vote, liberals have an arsenal of parliamentary weapons still remaining which they can use as Congress winds down toward adjourning for the November elec­tions, probably by early next month. 
One of them is time. The prayer measure is attached to a federal debt-limit extension, which must be approved by Oct. 1 if the govern­ment is to be able to pay its bills routinely and function without dis-
would eliminate Supreme Court ruption. 
~*** **'**'~''1{'1{'1( ***'k.* ***'**********"* 
iC We Welcome All Students Back! ! « Especially the 'The Knights of the Castle' iC 
1C 

iC iC
« ·/~r-;,~~
i( ~-.. ~ iC ~ iC iC
iC 
As that date draws near, the pressure will build against both con­servatives and liberals to resolve the issue one way or the other. 
Weicker will likely be urged to give up and let the prayer proposal pass the Senate and go to a House­Senate conference committee where the outcome would be uncer­tain. 
But there could be even greater pressure on the conservatives to take a symbolic victory, and let the debt ceiling bill to be approved stripped ofany prayer amendment. 
Once the Supreme Court is barred from deciding prayer cases, Sen. Charles McMathiasJr., R-MdJsaid in a Senate tloor speech on Friday, "there is no area of human endeavor 
that  could  not  be  reached  by  a  
simple  act  of  
Congress .. .Tomorrow  our  most  

basic constitutional protections could be at stake." 
-Men's Hair Styling-iC 
• 

For the total look on a styled 1ir£~eeftS iC 
Hair Cut, Shampoo, 
iC 

Blow Dry, Condition t/e -k Regular $15.00 iC 
2720 12 


Now 8.50with coupon ·3 iC •••••••••••••••••••••: 
54533 Terrace Lane iC e .J ·-.J A • 11A • 1• '~• A GIVES YOU e
1 
Z for 1 •

~ Hrs.Tue,Wed,Sat8:30-5:30 • AcrossfromMartin's(St.Rd.23) ~ •• '---•I~U ~U~U~ 
~ Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 ~ 
iC closed Mon We are only mmutes from campus iC e BOGfi"T fiT ttiS BEST Itt e 
~ *****.****** COUPON *i************' e e
: lilt? 4tri£etll t2ut?t?ll : 

Thursday is Tankard Night in the
1­

Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer i;;; only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! 
Refills every weekday from 4 -7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
·1 
-J
~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
The Young Democrats held theirfirst meeting at 7 p.m. last night to discussfuture plans. (Photo by Pete Laches) 
United Waypredicts record-breakingyear 
By PAT BROWNE 
NewsSLajf 
United Way contributions have al­
ways been spectacular among the 
Notre Dame population, but this 
year's drive co-chairmen, juniors 
John Bardsley and Tom Boggeu, 
predict a record-breaking year. 
"We are pushing for 100 percent particaption among the students on campus which has always been our goal," Boggeu said. 
Last year's goal was 74 percent or 8,600 dollars, and Boggeu is confi­dent that amount will be surpasses:! this year. 
Collections for the drive, which 
runs from Sept. 26 through Nov. 3, 
will be early compared to last year, 
when the drive was staged Nov. 1-7. 
Boggeu said the change is due to 
the football schedule, which keeps 
the Irish at home the second and 
third Saturdays of October and the week after tall break. 
The United Way drive committee will ask students to contribute S2 towards the campaign during that 
week. 
Collections will be conducted in the dorms by section leaders, who will transfer the funds to the com­mittee through hall representatives. 
Totals will be graphed as is done annually, which Boggeu feels promotes "friendly competition" to raise more money than other dorms and amass a greater total than the previous year. 
Off campus funds will be col­lected at a "table of fortune" -a donation table stationed in the dining halls. 
Contributions will be accepted 
during lunch and dinner all week 
long. All monies collected during 
the campaign will go to 34 United 
Way agencies in St. Joe Countv. 
Boggeu said no funds will. go to 
abortion-related facilities. 

e AriD e
•

• •e
e ABBOTT fittD COSTELLO e in their famous : 
: WI!()~§ ()ll tirst • 
: TOfiiGHT : : 7:30 9:30 11:30 : 
• ill [r')tf)ff(Jfr£' IJr:ilh£\£'(': 
$ 1:

,...................... 
i--T'her'hO".na;-Mc,;e-s<;ci"ViYoTFiot'fe-Dc.me-1 I Presentt 11 ..Contemporary Issues Lecture Serits"l 
Wednesday ttights 8:15-9:15 I
1

1 Rm. 11 5 o·shag ttall I 1 Q and fi Period following presentations I I Sept. zz Seminar on : 1I ncensorship and the the Church·· I 
1 presented by: The ttational Legion 1 
~ of Decency and VaticanII 1 
~~------------------------J 
The Observer Tuesday, September 21, 1982 --page 5 

Economic blooper? 
Mondale criticizes Reagan policy 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) The In the U.S. Senate race, he said, the Reagan administration's economic choice is between a Republican who policy is "the big, collossal, grand-voted with President Reagan down daddy blooper of all time" and the line and Fithian, who opposed voters will have a chance to Reagan's economic policies. repudiate it in November, former Reaganomics, he said, is a failure Vice President Walter Mondale said on all counts. Instead of spurring in· 
Monday. vestment in new plants and equip-
The veteran Democrat was in ment, Mondale said the president's 
town to raise money for the U.S. program caused investment in this 
Senate campaign of Congressman area to drop 28 percent. Rather than 
Floyd Fithian against GOP incum-promoting -entrepreneurship, 
bent Richard G. Lugar. Mondale was "small business failures are at an all­
the featured attraction for a SlOO-a-time high," he said. Since the Reagan 
couple reception Monday night policies have been in effect, business 
followed by a Sl S-a-person rally at profits have dropped :B percent, in­
the Indiana Convention Center. stead of rising as the Republicans 
Mondale, who praised Fithian as had predicted, Mondale said. 
"one of the ablest public servants in. Mondale said Reagan can't even 
the United States today," said he has truthfully c;:laim to have reduced the 
made about 100 campaign events size of government. Mondale said 
this year on behalf of Democratic that when he and President Carter 
congressmen. left office, government spending 
"I don't know anywhere else in equaled 21.5 percent ofthe gross na­
this country where the issue of tiona! product. Now, that share has 
Reaganomics is more starkly joined climbed t 24 percent, he said. 
than in Indiana," he told reporters at "This administration is not 
a news conference. squeezing the size of government it 
Reagan asks Congress to end railroad strike 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan yesterday asked Congress to bring a halt to the nationwide rail strike after talks between the rail­roads and engineer's union col­lapsed and a federal mediator reported "no reasonable prospect" ofa settlement. 
"The nation cannot afford a 
prolonged rail strike," Transporta­
tion Secretary Drew Lewis toltl 
reporters after meeting with the 
president. "It is clear that any long­
term rail strike could have serious 
impact on the national defense and 
the economy." 
Within minutes of the announce­
ment at the White House, Senate 
Majority Leader Howard Baker said 
the House and the Senate would 
begin separate hearings on the presi­
dent's request this morning. 
Lewis said the president wants 
Congress to approve legislation that 
would impose on the railroads and 
engineers the recommendations ofa 
special presidential commission es­
tablished during the 60-day cooling 
off period that ended Sunday. 
That confmission urged that the hotly disputed issue ofwage differn­tials between 26,000 locomotive en­gineers and other train crew members be turned over to a special study commission for further talks after the overall contract is ap­
proved. It also urged a "no strike" re­
quirement on the union over the pay 
differences. 
The Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, whose walkout early Sun­day halted most of the nation's rail freight service and some passenger trains, has opposed the special com­mission's recommendation on pay differences. 
But union president John Sytsma said the union would abide by a con­gressional mandate. In a statement issued by union's headquarters in Cleveland, Sytsma said: "We are an 
ST. JUDE 0 Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Mortyr, great in virtue and rich in miracle$, near Kinsman of Jesus Christ, faitnful intercessor of all who invoke your ~cial patronage in time of need, to you I hove recourse from the d~ of my heon and humbly beg to WhbM God has given such greo• POWer, to come to my assistance. ~ me in my p:~nt and urgent petitk. ·. In return I promose to n;u!ts yC!Jit r .,. known and cause you to be il'l'\loked. Soy three Our faftlers, tnree Hail Marys and Glorios. for nine consecutive &.-;-:. P~icotion must be prornis.ed. St. Jude pray fat us ond ::!1 ~ invok~ 'IOAII aid. Amen. This Novena has _, been known to foil, I hove hod my request ra:-.teo J.N. 
old and respected and law-abiding 
organization." 
The president's move came hours ·after industry and union bargainers broke off face-to-face negotiatiJ.ms after failing to make any progress during three hours of meetings. 
Both sides agree the issue in dispute 
was whether the engine<;rs should 
be able to maintain a wage differen­
tial over other t rc_ w members. 
Lewis and Lab"r Secretary 
Raymond Donovan said they recom­
mended the course of action to 
Reagan and the president agreed the 
government should "act decisively 
to bring this strike to an end." 
The two Cabinet members went 
to the president, Lewis said, after 
federal mediator Kay McMurray in­
formed him there was "no 
reasonable prospect" of resolving 
the wage differential issue. 
The engineer's strike is the tirst 
nationwide rail strike since 1971, 
when Congress moved to bring sig­
nalmen back to work after a two-day 
walkout. A four-day strike at nine 
railroads was ended by the courts in 
1978 because the cooling-off period 
had not expired. 
Members of the engineer's union 
earn between S.20,000 and S:'IO,OOO 
a year, depending on their assign­
ments. 
The engineers are the last of l 5 
unions to settle with the industrY. 
Late last year 11 unions representi~g 
non-operating employees reached 
agreement and on Sept. l S the liTl: 
signed its tentative pact. 
is expanding it," Mondale declar~. 
When their rosy economic predictions failed to materialize, Republicans began changing their rhetoric, saying that the Reagan policies would take longer to work, comparing it to tough medicine, Mondale said. 
"This is not tough medicine. It is 
bad medicine," he said. "It is not 
making us stronger. It is making us 
weaker." 
But the mid-term elections, Mondale saisl, present "an oppor­tunity for the people of Indiana to help this country get back on a sound economic course by rejecting Reaganomics." 
Republicans have countered Democratic criticisms by saying that the Democrats have offered nothing constructive. Mondale disagreed, saying, "the first positive point is to undo Reaganomics... The first thing we have to do is undo the mistake that the incumbent president and the incumbent senator have com­mitted. That's fundamental." 
When that's done, the nation's 
focus must shift to the economy, to 
reinvigorate small business and to 
become more assertive in interna­
tional trade, he said. 
"I think Americans now accept 
that Reaganomics is a failure be­
cause in their own lives and their 
own businesses, they see that 
failure," he said. "It is a tragedy. You 
don't have to tell your farmers that 
they're suffering." 
Meetingfor Regina Hall officers today 
A mandatory meeting for all those interested in running for Regina Hall officers will be held this Tuesday at 
7:30 in the Student GovernO.:ent offices in the basement of Regina Hall. 
Elected positions will include a 
President-Vice President ticket, 
Secretary and Treasurer. If running 
on the President-Vice President tick· 
et, only one member needs to be 
present. 
Nominations for these offices will open Wednesday morning and con· tinue until midnight Sept. 2S. Campaigning runs from I I p.m. Sept. .26 to midnight Sept. 29. Elec­tions will be held in the hall on Thursday, Sept 30 from ~ a.m. to 6 
p.m. 
For those interested in running for Freshmen council, a meeting will be held on Tuesday, Oct. S with campaigning and elections being held the following week. 
Anyone with questions regarding these meetings or elections should contact Monica <;ugle at SO I.., after -!:30p.m. 
SeniOR poRtRaits 
xtenbeO unttl Sept. 28 

J 
St(jn up now ~OR youR appotntm€nt o~~ th€ taroRtun€ BallRoom OR call 239-5183 
I

last chanc€, Class o~ 1983! I 
Students on the quad practice for the big game as interha/1 soc­cergets under way. (Photo by Pete Laches) 

• enjoy a luxurious !light to the game aboard a plush corporate aircratt. e Depart in sn·lp wnh an onboard connesseurs selection in ottine 
sptrits and ~nacks: *ALL YOU CAN DIUNK * 
e First class !light stewardess e Uniformed crew 
• enjoy the game welJ-rested and irLl' :lf iJOSt-game driving 
N.D. vs.MlCHlGANSTA.TE depart0ct.2 !O:OOAM 
IRISH AIR EXPRESS 
--SOUTH HEND l )lRECT LANSING, Ml. -­
35 min. Non-stop R t_ :S')(l Perrx·r~on(min. 5) H.esv.234-5607 CALUUH. INHJ U:'\. N.\\' Y'Pll 1/AIH.FUH.CeGAMe 

RETREAT WEEKENDS Campus Ministry Weekends of Reflection and 1\elaxation 
February 4·6 ..... The Path ofthe Heart's Desire (Fr. John Dunne) December 3-5 ..•.. Prepare Ye The Way ofthe Lord ll'r. John Fitzl!erald) January 28-30 ..... Running The The Race: Spiritual Fitness (Sr. Marietta Starrie) October 1-3 ..... The l'ath of the Heart's Desire (Fr. John Dunne) February 11-1.3 ..... "I Have Food of Which You Know Nothing" CFr. James Burchaell) February 25-27 ..... Solitude and Community (Sr. Judith Ann Beattie & Ms. Mary Ann Roemer) March 25-27 •.... Blood And Lillies: Entering Holy Week ll'r. John Fitzgerald) Aprill5~ 'I •.... Is There Life After Commencement? (Fr. Joe Carey et. al.) 
$8.00 PEl\ PEBSOK Fl\IDA Y EVEKIKG TO SUKDAYBOOR HOUSE AT LAKE MICBIGAR lliSEBVATIOKS Bi&ii !!!~ Slftlr.t:::!! BADIK BALL CAMPUS MIWIS!BY o1:I!JI 
239-5242 



Business & TechnologyTuesday,septernber21,1982~page6 
Advertising woes
Research Update · · 
Coors promotes new image 
Scientists at Ohio State University's medical school have developed a more accurate test for gonorrhea than present micro­scope tests. The new technique takes only 30 minutes and can be By MILTON MOSKOWITZ organizations. As the demand for its Ted Bates, one of the biggest ad done in any doctor's office or VD clinic without the usual 24 to 48 brew became stronger, distribution agencies in the nation. came up with
Special to the Observer 
hour wait for a microbiologist to read bacterial cultures. The doctor was expanded to 20 states -and the one that has been used recently, or technician simply adds a sample of penile or cervical fluid to a Coors began scouting the East for an identifying Coors as the "high tube containing freeze-dried crab blood cells in suspension. The ap­If you're in the beer business, -additional brewery site. country" beer and using such lines pearance of a gel-like precipitate in the fluid means that the blood one of the first things you have to With these changes, Coors came as "It ain't flatland beer" and "It ain't cells have detected the presence ofgonorrhea. The new method is learn how to do -aside from to the conclusion that it had to join city beer." That campaign, said under study at the Food and Drug Administration. -Discover making the beer, of course -is to the other brewers on the hustings. It Coors, alienated minorities and 
advertise. It's not as easy as it looks became an advertiser, a big one. In women who were not moved by up there on the TV screen. 1976, its advertising budget was S6 seeing someone jumping off a tOO­The body's sleeping potion,a substance long Budweiser in St. Louis and Miller million. Last year it was up to S85 foot cliff into icy water. The cowboy sought by scientists, has been isolated and partially analyzed at Har­in Milwaukee each spend more than million. And what has that massive motif, in general, misfired. Coors ex­vard Medical School. The powerful chemical, called Factor S, is S I 00 million a year on high­onslaught accomplished? In 1976, plained why: suspected to accumulate during waking hours to reach relatively powered commercials and print ads when it sold 13.5 barrels of beer, it "California Hispanics and 
high concentrations in those deprived ofsleep. About one-trillionth to get you to quaff their beverages. ranked fifth in the industry stand­Mexican nationals -do you know ofa gram ofFactor Sputs test animals into a deep sleep. Once Factor It's a unwritten law oftelevision that ings. Last year its sales were 13.3 mil­how they perceive a cowboy? A bor­S is better understood and has been synthesized, it could help decip­you're never allowed to show lion barrels, dropping Coors to sixth der guard, a boss, a federate. You her the question ofwhy we sleep. -Discover anyone quaffing beer in a commer­place. don't use cowboys to sell beer to the 
cial. So these TV commercials do So it's not just the sheer weight of Spanish." everything but that -people order advertising that wins -it's how you Coors beer now has new advertis­beer, they slide the glasses down the advertise. William K Coors, presi­ing, one that emphasizes freshness. bar, they raise bottles or glasses in dent of the brewery, unburdened The campaign theme line is: "Coors
Wall Street Update himselfabout the problem ofgetting ­
toasts, but no sipping. Viewers, you made for the way you really like know, may get the wrong idea and effective advertising in remarks to drink beer." It remains to be seen think you're supposed to pour that made last month at a Denver whether this will turn out to be an­stuffdown your throat. advertising conference. The Coors other clinker. Coors desperately The stockmarketrebounded from a sharp early decline The Budweiser and Miller com­campaigns have fallen flat, he needs help. In the first half of 1982, to finish with a small loss today. Trading was moderate. Analysts said mercials seem to work. At least these conceded. That's why the themes its shipments were down 10 per­the early selling was prompted partly by new speculation and two brewers have captured 53 per­keep changing. cent, from 6.1 to 5.5 million barrels. rumors about possible trouble in the banking system. By the end of cent of the market, up from 38 per­
r I ••• 
the trading day, however, there was no news to substantiate the cent five years ago. Budweiser, -~ rumors. But the price of gold, normally considered a reliable together with its satellite brands, measure ofconcern among investors, dropped more than S6 in New Michelob and Busch, has 31 percent York. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down more than 8 of the business. Miller, with its points at its mid-session low, closed with a .64 loss at 916.30. satellite brands, Lite and Lowenbrau, Declim:s outpaced advances by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock has 22 percent. Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 58.52 million shares, against If anyone is watching the Bud­
63.95 million in the previous session. -AP weiser and Miller commercials in 
agony, it has to be the people at the Adolph Coors brewery in Golden, Colorado. They must look at them and moan, "How do they do it? What's the secret?" 

It wasn't too long ago that Coors could be classified as a non-believer
~~cl~iiijl~ 
in advertising. The Coors family held with Milton S. Hershey that if you made a good product, you didn't have to advertise. And so CoorsUcltt?l Tues., Sept. 21 hardly spent any money on advertis­ing. Its beer was distributed only in the West -and it began to sell so
1-Jiclt::f?l Engineering Auditorium 
well that it acquired a "cult" statJJs. Easterners would bring hack six­Tlrnt?l 7:00pm & 9:30pm packs in their luggage. Then, sometime in the mid-19--,0s, the world began to change on Coors.
~()§fl Sl.OO 

The big brewers kept getting bigger while the ~mall ones died. The coors "' 
~~()11§£:tf?cllill BCAC family sold stock to the public for the first time. The company became the target of boycott~ by various groups: Gays, labor unions, minority 
CRooe() 
Economic

CRo~P~ re~overy
CRoseg S10.00 (peh do3.pw~e oHO~) 
untoreseen 

c~hoiee Ob eo0oh whiQe the~ Ow~t 
bnh~ h~r.ofi, .SO~· ed!tn hn\ n1t n:mnn~rd ~:2.(1(\ rdJto rlu.~in~ c:nrr nnQl) 
By ROBERT FURLOW 
Associated Press Writer 

10% off most items in store FREE CARNATION with $5.00 or more purchase· for walk -in sales 
Americans' personal income rose

enter our $25.00 free merchandise drawing just 0 . .3 percent in August, the least March, government
TUES· WED· THURS· ONLY sorry,wecannotchargesaleroses since the 
reported Monday. The gain was probably really a loss after subtract­

' .......J···········*···························
EVERYDAY EVERYDAY ing the effects of inflation. Consumers' spending rose a bit14 day student charge accounts more 0.7 percent. And economists and government offi­
Free s·M ·C ·deliverv * * * .50 toN ·D ·(LaFortune) area off campus delivery 
cials said they still expected the July

r•mc:n~r~. hn11 fn1111ir~rr:. n~1nll!lrt11PI1fc: (nOC fqpr•c:).lt'r·ddil1q. f':lillf'l~n('. pOn11ff: (nOr p~nl1t nP!:<l(:). M~11tnC(:. 
tax-rate cut and other recent

hnOOnnnc: lc:ii1CJCr. hnuqurl. nnci rJi(l hn\). (:prho( ri1(:Nlllllt p~iN'(: [.(1.~ l!t.1rj! qunntitq n.1r1r·.1(: 
income gains to encourage 

baby breath and greens 1s included in all our work at no extra charge Americans to spend even more. thu~ helping pull the economy out of its
PERSONAL ATTENTION AND GUARANTEE IS GIVEN TO ALL OF OUn WORK 
1.3-month recession. 

AND QUALITY AT FAiR ANu REAS0t-4ABLE PRICES But they hardly sounded confi­IF YOU ARE NOT SATISFIEQ-TELL US'··iF YOu AAE TELL A FRIEND dentthat any spending surge was im­
co ---' ' minent. And they ~;;.id ihe current July-September quarter will likely
J l'lC lPQalflm Ol'ld s:JQoweftg ghon hr C:lt~r tomn~r o!'.Gtr. nf; nu.~ or growth for the
show little no overall economy.

~eu\Jtm1g ffiaQQ (bagmneHt) g.J'Vt.e. /1('-~ i1!1111hrJ1 :2[f.f4.S97 
______________________________________________________________________________. 
Hetty Ransom ofBujfalo, N.Y. reads tbe final edition ofthe Buf­falo Courier-Express Sunday. The 148-year-old moming neu•spaper ceased publication after its Minneapolis-based ou•ner, Cowles i11edia Co., said it could not afford continued losses, tl!ltf could not find a buyerfor the paper. ( AP Lasetphoto) 
======== 




Editorials 
Tuesday, September 21, 1982 -page 7 
Racism belies cultural ignorance 
Ten Notre Dame students and fifteen South Bend teenagers exchanged words, blows, bottles, and bricks last Thursday night on Ed­dy Street before police broke up the incident. Although no one was seriously injured or ar­rested, the clash highlights the friction be­tween the University and South Bend community. 
John Higgins Paul McGinn 
For What It's Worth 
Antagonism between students and local residents reflects prejudices on both sides. Domers are stereo-typed as overpriviledged children, looking for a good time at the ex­pense of neighborhood peace. Locals (we refrain from using the derogatory term townies) are viewed as resentful of a pres­tigious university, with influence extendl:ng far beyond its accountability to the city and her residents. 
Both assertions have a certain ring of truth. The dilemma, however, involves more than the students' insistance to urinate on lawns and locals' inability to obtain football tickets. It is not terribly inaccurate to call the larger portion of the body subtly racist. Black resi­dents are disdained as prolific criminals and welfare deadbeats. 
Most people are merely products of their upbringing. Much effort is directed toward the sheltering of youth from interracial con­tact in our suburbs and schools. How easy it has been for the word "nigger" to slip out of the mouths of those involved in discussion over society's ills. Upon entry into college, most students leave their middle-to-upper class neighborhoods to arrive at this grand refuge of cultural homogeneity. Students suf­fer from a culturally inbred superiority. 
Certainly, students and their parent~ are not solely at fault for this attitude. As any off-campus student will testify, living in and pas­sing through the Northeast Neighborhood is a constant adventure. One never knows if an apartment or house will remain undisturbed while its residents attend classes. Dark streets are cautiously entered and no bicycle can be considered safe from some teenager's bolt cutters. Students blame all ofthis, for the most part justifiably (ask any South Bend cop), on 
blacks. 
The typical guilt-ridden individual will now speak ofthe historical treatment ofblacks and of "reforms" such as integration and affirma­tive action programs as progress in the fight against racism. The question is not one of reparations for paSt wrongs but ofcurrent at­titudes toward blacks. 
A culturally ignorant student will see any incident of this sort as racially motiuated. 
What is needed is not an infallible quota sys­tem, but a respectful attitude which demands more than simple patronization. Legislation duririg the past 30 years has produced some changes, but has dealt mostly with symptoms of underlying attitudes. The fundamental mindset of whites remains unchanged -as long as blacks stay in their place, no one resents them. But when blacks happen to encroach on white territory, such as this lily­white campus, whites undermine the spir!t.of equality by categorizing blacks as "special" members of Notre Dame. 
The incident last Thursday serves as a fine example of the subtle racism on this campus. Wirr• ...sses and participants alike described the fight as "e:-..remely racial." Captain Larry Ben­nett of the South Bend Police Department dis­missed such claims, calling the black participants "a bunch of young kids looking for trouble." 
Who is right? Actually, both are. To paraphrase a tired expression, "Racism is in the eye ofthe beholder." Aculturally ignorant student will see any incident of this sort as ra­cially motivated. People who have more con­tact with blacks immediately realize that kids are kids, race notwithstanding. 
The major difficulty is that the concept of racial superiority came about slowly and can only die slowly. The concept of payback is in­adequate. Few stand above the muck ofselling out as they pull in minority grants and conces­sions. Many blacks sell out tO the .vecy. programs designed to help the black com­munity. The disgrace is that efforts toward equality pale in the shadow ofexpediency. 
The real obstacle toward equality are those who deny that racial tension exists at all. They typically maintain a condescending attitude, ignoring the situation and the problems exist­ing within the community. 
No, it is not necessary to plaster banner headlines across the news pages proclaiming a wave of racial hatred sweeping the campus. But this is an issue which deserves intellegent presentation, not a timid burial. 

P.O. Box C Feminism promotes equality 
Feminism. What images does it bring to mind? The Equal Rights Amendment? Gloria Steinem? Or perhapsMs. magazine? Accord­ing to a recent editorial by Brendan Brown, feminism "attempts to destroy all distinction between the sexes" and "pushes us toward uniformity." 
Mr. Brown is clearly misinformed about feminism. Feminists believe that women and men ahoulu be equal economically, politai­cally, and socially so that factors like sex would no longer predetermine one's status or life style. Rather than advocating unifor­mity, feminists believe that the destruction of sex roles would allow both men and women the freedom to develop and express the full range of valued human traits inde­pendent ofwhat is now labeled masculine or femine. Personality differences would not disappear, but they would not be related to sex. 
In addition, to charge that feminists see the destruction of the family as a purely pas­sing phenomenon. is utterly naive. Rather than accept the anti-feminist's view that only one style of the family is valid and moral, feminist's believe that all family styles are equally valid. Feminists recognize that the family is not a static institution, but that itis continuously evolving in order to meet the needs ofa changing society. 
Feminists do not believe that all women should have careers. To feminists, liberation consists of the freedom to explore new fields of work, whether as a housewife or career woman, and to enjoy a greater variety of types of relationships with others. Women who are doing what they freely chose to do, wheteher it is holding a job, or whether it is staying home are happier than those who do not have the choice. 
Women and men have progressed a long way toward realizing an egalitarian society. A society of equals would not only liberate women, but would also move forward toward "human" liberation. 
Elizabeth M. Feely Arts and Letters, '84 

I almost sold my ticket. 
I need money,like most ofthe rest ofus, and 
had some offers. I also had a friend with a color television, a warm living room and enough booze to help me forget the trials and tribulations of the week. 
Joe Musumeci 
Looking In 
I e1lso had missed the ~1ichigan game two years before, and rememht::red that miracles don't carry too well over network TV. Thank God that I remembered something this week. 
''I'll never lose to a high school coach." Hack to school. Bo. 
And so, we won. Hut just winning wouldn't have made it the night that it was. The tlrst night game -the first e-t•er ... that was im­portant. And the season opener, that helped. Best of all. perhaps. was the rivalry. Michigan is by far one of the hottest rivalries in the his­tory of Notre Dame. But the heat is as much a product ofrespect as ofopposition. The Mich­igan fans, when they come here, are very polite in their revelry, in their jibes, in their whole outlook; I would hope that they could say as much for us. Michigan, for instance, does not inspire the distaste that, say Georgia does ("them Dawgs" git mah goat). The im­pression I got Saturday night was of two fac­tions meeting in battle, proud not just oftheir own teams, but of the rivalry the two teams share. 
I hope the lights don't come back while I'm here. That night was a moment, a flash of 
Could I really be a Domer? 
compressed time in which one aspect ofbeing at Notre Dame became exactly what it was supposed to be. Plato might say that in those few arc-lit hours we had a glimpse ofthe Form of"football-gameness." 
But enough of this serious-sounding garbage -because nothing serious happened Saturday night. We went to sec a football game. We saw our team play well and win. It 
was a lot of fun. Even when 60,000 people hung for several minutes with their hearts in their gullets, begging for release (many waited for a different kind ofrekase; the game did not afford many quiet moments during which one might search out a restroom), it was a very special kind of fun. At one pGint I remember thinking to myself, "This is what college life is all about." 
People who know me might begin to think that someone else agreed to write my column this week (indeed, those who tried to wake me yesterday swore someone would hm•e to). because I am not what one might call a "Domer". You know, sometimes Iwish I were, for I felt somewhat the outsider Saturday night, screaming and yelling and comingclose to tears. 
But I shouldn't really. Because I know that many of the people who were in the stadium shading their eyes were in Washington Hall last March when the cast ofthe theatre depart· ment's production of Ibsen's The Wild Duck performed their llnal show. (We alwt~rs play under the lights.) Doing that show was a lot of fun, too. And many of the same people were there. They didn't form a card block. there were no banners proclaiming "Old Werle eats quiche," -but the applause felt just as good 
as Saturday night's llnal rendition ofthe "I H 12 Overture." 
That. then is the binding factor: football, theatre, the Isis gallery, the Scholastic ... the list goes on and on, all things we do as part of Notre Dame -they are things we do. As a group, a family, a community. Ask yoursell~ how much fun would the Michigan game have hcen ifyou were the only Notre Dame student there' How much would the cast of the play have enjoyed their performance if they didn't know that many of their friends were in the audience' I low much would John's exhihit in Isis mean if ~1ary hadn't come up to him and complimented his work. The answer ( I would hope) is "a lot." But the kinship we share with the people who suffer through classes, tests, and all-nighters with us makes their approval just a little more valuable. And a lot more fun. 
I did get dreadfulZr serious this u•eek. I'm sorry•. But I had my "Domer" moment Satur­day night; it was different from all the other football games I htwe leapt and screamed at, and I wanted to knou' why. For those ofyou who are dissappointed in this change of pace, fear not: lzl'ill be back next week u•ith llOtbirJg worthu·hile to say. (Yes, folks, more driz•el! Am/yes, my number is still unlisted.) 


'1\';ENT ~E7 W'£'~ S!Ut'!'ING ()l IT -WHAT Mf:R£ CO YOO WN(f'f'' 
Ihe~Obsen!er== 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
The O!Jrar·er r~ an independent new,paper publr,hcd by the ,tudents oi the 
I dlf11r 111 <hi<"/ \1ith:td \1onl-. llusincss .llanuger . .Ton1 Aiello
llnrH'r"'Y of Notre D.1mc duLac .l!ld SJ.int M.try's College. It does not ntH'S>.urly 
\ltillll_~ill,t: l:'di/111' I{I an\ n lkrklllot'' ( _·, 1111n 1//er .. t-:m· Sdwl,.
reflc.., t the polrncs of the administratio11 of crt her institution. The news '' report 
/'.H'CIIIil'l' \ci/'S /-'di/111' h.t•lli l·ltrll .·ldl•••rtisin,~ .1/unager.. 
<:hri' <>wen

e<l as ,\<Curately and J'i ohlt'l.trn:!y as ptw.ihk. Editorials represent the opinion of 
\ 1/( \('II'S /:'di/111' \largaret l'<"lllot· l'nJtlu.-ti<m .llanager.. .. \laur;1 .\1urpln
.1 rn.qorrty of the Fdrtorial BoHd. Colllrncnt.lrrt''· opinions and letters arc the views 
\fwr/s 1-'1/1/ur < hri' ~enlln Circulali1111 .llanager .. Ha1 lnglin
ol thcrr author'i. ( olumn spa<e '' avarl.thle to all rnernbt·rs ot the <omrnunrty, and 
1-'dilllrio/., /.'dil11r Paul \ld ;inn .\ I'SII'IIIS .11<1111/gl'r Bruce ( >:rl-.ln
the free expression of varying opinrons on ..:ampu~. through letters, io en~ounged. 
1-'eulure., hill11r T:rn llfll\\ II 
I'Ju)/tl J:'tliltJr H.tchd 1\iount 
P.O.Hox Q, Norn· Dame, IN ·+6SS6 (!19) l.W-5.)05 hmnded Nov_embt.·r 5. 1966 
~j)()~tS=~~~~t=·~~~~S========*=====================T=u=e=sd=ay='=se=p=te=m~b=e=r=2I=,=I9=8=2===p=ag=e==8 
said ne 
one 

lh' 7hl' rJhsen•er and lhe Associatl'rl Press ND women's tennis teatn plays a crucial match today against Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville. The Irish must defeat SIE if they hope to be invited to the NIAW Division II tournament at the end of the year. Notre Dame finished second to AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE SIE in last year's regional play, but never has faced them in a dual East Final Standings? match. The match begins at 3:30 on the Courtney Tennis Courts. -W L Pet. GB NATIONAL CONFERENCE Milwaukee 90 60 600 EastThe Observer Baltimore 88 62 587 2 W L T Pet. PF PA Boston 82 68 547 8 Washington 2 0 01 000 69 48 Detrott 74 74 500 15 Philadelphia 0 500 58 58 New York 73 76 490 16 5 Dallas t 1 0 500 52 43Mike Gann and Larry Williatns will be the Cleveland 72 75 490 16 5 St LOUIS 1 1 0 500 28 31 guests tonight on WSND (AM 64 )'s "SpeakingofSports" at 10. -The Toronto 69 81 460 21 NY G1ants 0 2 0 .000 33 42 West CentralObserver Caltforma 85 65 567 Detroit 2 0 01.000 36 24 Kansas City 84 66 560 1 Green Bay 2 0 01 000 62 42 Chicago 79 70 530 55 Mmnesota 1 1 0 500 39 33 Seattle 71 78 477 13.5 Tampa Bay 0 2 0 000 23 38The deadlinefor signups for entry in the interhall cross­Oakland 62 88 413 23 Ch1cago 0 2 0 000 10 27 country meet for men and women is today. You may register by Texas 60 90 400 25 West Minnesota 57 93 380 28 Atlanta 1 t 0 500 30 52calling the NVA office at 239-6100-The Observer New Orleans 1 1 0 500 17 21 San Franctsco 0 2 0 000 38 47 LA Rams 0 2 0 000 37 54 Yesterday's Results AMERICAN CONFERENCEBaltimore 3, Detroit 1 ND Pep Rally Committeemeeting will be held at EastCleveland at New York, ppd. ra1n7 p.m. in room 2D of the LaFortune Student Center. All interested W L T Pet. PF PAMinnesota 4, Toronto 1 Mtamt 2 0 01.000 69 48students are asked to attend. -The Observer Milwaukee 4, Boston 3 Buffalo 2 0 Ot 000 37 31California 3, Kansas City 2 NY Jets 1 1 0 500 59 52Texas 10. Oakland 3 New England 1 1 0 .500 31 44Seattle 5, Ch1cago 2 Baltimore 0 2 0 000 33 48  • ..Irish  
continuedfrompage 12 defensive positioning," Vanslager. "We had too many violations and they (SMC) got it pas our blockers too many times. Basi cally, we were weak defensively a the net." The Southwestern Michigan rail) in the last game was also partly due to the great serving of two Misha waka High School products, Ter' Hobkirk and Lisa Herron, who led the SMC squad. In fact, the Roadrunners t almos could have been called the home team last night as they had three players from Mishawaka and  
Central )The ND Irish Flyers Club is being revived. Pittsburgh 2 0 01 000 62 48 Anyone interested can call 277-6726 for information. -The Ob­Cincmnati 1 1 0 500 42 31 NATIONAL LEAGUE Houston 1 1 0 500 29 48 server East Cleveland 1 t 0 500 1 t W L Pet. GB West St. LOUIS 87 63 580 LA. Ra1ders 2 0 01 000 61 31 Ph1ladelph1a 81 68 544 5.5 San D1ego 1 1 0 500 35 22 Montreal 79 69 534 7 Kansas City 1 1 0 500 28 26 530 75Both SaintMary'Sfall sports teams are in action today. Pittsburgh 79 70 Denver 1 1 0 500 27 44 Ch1cago 67 83 447 20 Seattle 0 2 0 000 28 44The Belles tennis team plays its first home match of the season this New York 57 91 385 29 afternoon at the Angela Tennis Courts against Manchester College at West Yesterday's Resuhs Los Angeles 85 65 567 Green Bay 27, N.Y G1ants 193 p.m. Coach Erin Murphy's volleyball team, coming off its loss to Atlanta 82 68 547 3 Notre Dame on Saturday, travels to Grace College today for a 6 p.m. San Francisco 79 70 530 5.5 Sunday's Results San Diego 75 75 500 10 NY Jets 31, New England 7match. -The Observer Houstcn 70 80 467 15 New Orleans 10, Ch1cago 0 Clnc1nnat1 55 94 369 29 5 L A. Raiders 38, Atlanta 14 Philadelphia 24, Cleveland 21  from South Bend on their roster About halfthe crowd was rooting for them, too, including the curren Mishawaka team which was in atten dance. The Irish women are now 5-0 in season play, 7-3 if you include tournaments. They travel to IU-PU Fort Wayne Thursday for the first of seven road contests in a row and will not have another home game until their rematch with Saint Mary's on October 20. "We should be much stronger  
Kansas City 19, San D1ego 12 Pittsburgh 26, Cinc1nnat1 20, OT The Irishfield hockeyteam, now 4-0 after beating Dallas 24, St. LoUis 7 Calvin College on Saturday, takes to the road today as it visits Taylor Yesterday's Results DetrOit 19, L.A Rams 14 Ch1cago 3. Pittsburgh 1 University for a 4 p.m. start. The Irish return home Thursday to face Denver 24, San Franc1sco 21Montreal at New York, ppd ra1n Houston 23, Seattle 21Valparaiso.-The Observer St Lou1s 4, Philadelphia 1 Washington 21, Tampa Bay 13 Houston 4, Atlanta 3 M1am1 24, Baltimore 20 Only games scheduled  when we get back," said Vanslager. "Barring injury or illness, Saint Mary's should never be able to score more than five points per game on us by that time."  
The Observer w111 accept classtfteds Mon­day through Frtday 10 a.m to 4 30 p m However. c\asstfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day prtor to tnsert1on All classtfteds must be prepatd Classifieds etther tn person or through the mat/  
OMBUDSMEN PHONES ARE NOWFOUND: Set of keys at football game in WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM, $2995 NEED TWO OR MORE ARIZONA TICK· NEED TIX TO MIAMI AND ANY OTHER OPEN FOR INFORMATION AND COM­Section 31. See Shirley m THE OB· 64K Microcomputer letter quality pnnter, ETS!!!!! PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT HOME GAME CHRIS-1730NOTICES SERVER office word processing software, CP/M, Bas1c 3793 IF YOU CAN HELP PLAINTS Call between 12 and 5 Monday Call277-7720 Need 4 M1am1 GA s call Larry 1722 thru Fnday for 1nfo Call 24 hours for Need 2 GA tix to PENN ST Call L1z 284­campus complamts Phone· 239-0BUD FOUND: A KEYCHAIN CONTAINING For Sale: Set of e1ght place setllngs, 5166 Need 1 Student T1cket for Purdue Call THREE KEYS. CONTAINS GOLD FOR RENT_ dishwasher-proof Melanme; also coffee­Dan at 1730 HELPI MY DAD IS VISITING NEXT MEDAL CALL TOM AT 1167 gnnder, hot plate Ideal 1f movmg off NEEDED. 2 tickets for Purdue game Call WEEKEND AND I DESPERATELY campus Pnce of all items, $30. dishes on· Rich at x321 0 or x3213 Need Purdue GAs Call Caspar 277-3276 NEED 1 GA FOR THE PURDUE GAME ROOMATE WANTED-To help share 2­LOST: Spalding baseball glove on the ly, $15. Call239-6470 dayt1mes CALL ANNE AT x4321 bedroom furn1shed apartment. Located 1nfield across from Moreau Seminary FOR SALE PURDUE,MIAMI.PENN Purdue 11ckets for sale Call 272-7723 be­Turtle Creek Apts ,10 m1n. walk fromFnday afternoon. Please call Dave, 3458 77 RABBIT CLEAN XCLNT COND 277· TIX.239-7139 tween 6-8 PM CONGRATS KAY ON A FINE LOOKING campus. Call anyt1me at 277-85960r 283­if found. 6726 FIRST ISSUEIII WELCOME TO THE 4263 NEED 2 PENN ST GAS WILL PAY$$$$ need 2,4,or 6 M1am1 GA: or student IIXS­RANKS AND THE BENEFITS THAT To whomever stole/mistakenly took my FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR CALL RICH x4662 277-8699 COME WITH IT. light jacket from C/D line in the North NOTRE DAME AVE APTS AVAILABLE SUZANNE Din1ng Hall Friday Sept. 17, lm freezmg IMMEDIATELY. LEASE THRU X-MAS Will trade two M1am1 GAs for two Anzona Need 2 GAs for M1am1 game Please call TICKETS my blank· off. 11 s white with a blue stripe at$90/mth CALL xf 813 GAs Andy 8692/8697 Tern at 277-4820 or Nadme at 1302 W1ll and has my laundry tag 1n it. Please return pay$$$! Dorene-to 81 8 Grace, no questions asked Young, amb1t1ous male needs a y all better not forget that you re -buymg DATE NEED 2 PURDUE GAS w1ll pay top dol­me d1nner 2n1te Hope you have an eas1er LOST-1 pair of glasses and 1 student ID day todayWANTED DID YOU SEE OUR AD IN THE But if you've seen him, you know that he lar' KEVIN t 770 at Green Field Saturday. If found, please WANTED SECTION? IT'S ABOUT A has JM call Mary at 6751 GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY FOR a better shot at football tickets need 2 Purdue lix Good $$ Call Pat. 289­p s nottce 1 d1dn t ment1on smc s or Willing to sacnfice VIRGINITY /money (in ANYONE WITH A SAD SOCIAL LIFE Need 2 or 4 student or GAs to Purdue or 7340 scroungy colton that order) for 2 PURDUE tiX BE­$25 REWARD: CLASS RING LOST AT AND PENN ST OR MIAMI GA'S -M1am1 CALL DAVE AT 6939 CKY/CHRIS 8708-07PEP RALLY. IF FOUND CALL OB­CINDY OR KATIE, 2948 Have recently 1nhented FORTUNE, and SERVER AND LEAVE MESSAGE. want to blow 11 all on FOOTBALL TIX!!I!!I To Ro. Tan. Moose. Sw1ercz. Erm & Des.We'll be even mora "sacrificial" if you 4 PURDUE GAS TO THE BEST OFFER PURDUE the four guys from Pangborn, Patti, L1sa &can get us 2 Penn St. GA's or 2 Miami CALL CHRIS 291·2680 FOUND: 1 Field Hockey Stick at Pep Ral­MIAMI L1sa. my old room1es, the daqu1n makersGA's. Don't lall, we're ultra serious. If I NEED 4 GA PURDUE TIX BIG $$$ ly on Fnday. If 1t's yours call 3101 ARIZONA (Katie, Ten, & Jack). John. Beth, theyou even know someone who is pos­CALL 1364 LIKE FINE WINES? SAILORS? GET Describe it and 1fs yours PENNsibly even maybe thinking about sell­YOUR CHOICE OF EITHER Ch1cago twms. and espec1ally the M1chtgan Wei­Act NOW, before 1nhentance tax eats 11 alling their GA's show them this ad and Chnstlan Brothers and U S Navy person­vermes who ATE QUICHE Sat mght nel need as many t1x as poss1ble for Mtam1 up!!!!!!! Call Carolyn ext 8024 thanks for mak1ng my 20th b-day the best IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY tell them to call Cindy or Katie at 2948. Need Purdue GAs 289-7640 or Anzona Call John at 1580 one yet!!!OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE TRADE 2 STUDENT PURDUE OR the yellow roseFOR A HAIRCUTTODAYI ONLY $4 FOR Wanted 2 Purdue Tickets Call M1ke at I need 2 Purdue GA's. PLEASEIJ!f Call HELP! PARENTS COMING ALL THE MIAMI OR CASH FOR 2 ARIZONA GA. ps ya II come back next year. y here?H! GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO 234-3224 John Higgins at 287-4186 (nights) or WAY FROM LITTLE FALLS NEW YORK. DAN 288·8402 CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 239-5323 and LEAVE A MESSAGEIIWANTED: Energetic, eager people for YES I SAID LITTLE FALLS IF I DONT general office aSSIStance, Saturdays, 1-5. FIND 1 GA FOR THE MIAMI GAME, SCREWED BY SYR Stuck w/12 GOOD TO THE' KENRICK GIRL IN THE WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 5-9, and Sundays 9-1, 1-5, starling Sept THEIR TRIP WILL ZZ TOP TIX (TOGETHER) Selling WRONG FRENCH Ci..ASS Real field 64K M1crocomputer,letter qual1ty pnnter, WANTED DESPERATELY--I PURDUE25. $3.50 per hour--p1ck your own sh1ft CHEAP Call Paul or Zip at 8437 hockey pia yers don t eat qutcheword processing software, CP/M, Bas1c STUD OR GA PLEASE CALL WILL 282­Close to campus but must have own HELP! TWO FRIENDLY BOILER­--GO VIKINGS' Call277-7720 t026transportation Call 277-5448 and ask for MAKERS WILL NOT BE SO FRIENDLY NEED PURDUE STUDENT TICKET D1aneCAR PROBLEMS?? I AM A QUALIFIED IF I DONT COME UP WITH 2 PURDUEPLEASE HELP'!! I NEED 1 PURDUE GA MECHANIC WITH LOTS OF EX­BABYSITTERS wanted occastonally for TIX GA OR STUD PLEASE HLP CALL NEED' 2GA & 3STU Purdue-Call SMC MEG-So you sa1d you wanted to gel an$$$$CALL MARK 8332 PERIENCE AND LOWER RATES THAN professors two children Near campus MEL8629 4412 Observer personal? No sweat Your w1sh ANY GARAGE'! CALL TODAY FOR A Call 288-6428 evemngs 15 my command Catch ya tomorrowHelp celebrate Dad s 55th b1rthda y. FREE ESTIMATE JOHN AT 1852 mght M Adesperately need 4 student and/or GAs Help Grandparents cheer lnsh! I need 4 DESPERATE! WILL GIVE UP MY FIRST tor the M1am1 game W1ll buy 1n pmrs Call Purdue GAs All together or any 2 pairs The OBUD 24-hour phone line IS now BORN SON FOR 2 MIAMI GAS CALL J1m Gardner.J1m-1152 555 Enc 3663 open. DENNIS-3383 I PERSONALS I Good luck w1th your 1nterv1ews Call 239-0BUD w1th your campus com­HOOSIER family will BORE me to death 1f KathyRe!iable babys1tter wanted tor tw1ns Need PURDUE GAs or Student tickets plaints. I don t get Purdue ttx need 3 student, 218mo old, once a week for 4 hours. Call $$$ Call287-3538 after 6 G A Dan 1485 Ladaez and Gentlemenevemngs 232-5522 WINDSURFERS' Don t g1ve up the ShipI M A DEAD MAN 1f I don t come up With 3 (especially gentlemen) $50 REWARD for return, 1n good condi­I NEED 2 MIAMI GAS CALL CATHY AT Announc1ng The 19th B1rthday of (?) Remember. where ever there tS W1NDWANTED· USED COUCH, BAR, MIAMI GAs and/or 4 ARIZ GAs Helption, of my blue, 12-speed Fuji bike, stolen the one and only and water DO IT 1Watch th1s space (nSHELVES. X2197 save my very valuable ($$$$) neck! call 6833 from Fisher Hall. Call Mike at 3070. space) for future news -W1NDPHIL at 8295, even 1f you only have 1 or 2 CINDY LOU-HOO Yes, the OhiO cow Iipper IS begmmng her I NEED MARY KAY COSMETICS Call HAVE 2 PURDUE GAS, BUT NEED 2 Want to succeed in the Class Room Want last year as a teenager and boys. she Hey N D ' Mark Wx1813 PENNSTATEGAS CALLPATATt068 to be Rich Want to be successful? For wants to make 11 a w1id one! Don t be the He s lega11n CT & Flneed 2 GAs for ARIZONA game call more informatron wnte to: JOE Term1nally 111 younger brother wants to last one to call her at 2948 and w1sh her all Lauren (smc) 5072 I need some PURDUES BAAAD!! Stu· CAMPBELL ASSOCIATES 26 Dnvers see N.D. game before tthe last roundup dent or GA Good Bucks Ch1p 289:81 1 3 the best Maybe you m1ght get lucky-you Bontour Dearest Duck1e B1g Bra Be Lane Laurel Springs, NJ 08021 SALES Help out a cute kid With PURDUE, MIAMI, know how them Farmers Daughters are~ realistiC, you never call! If you don t wantHELPI!! I need 1 or 2 GA or Stu TIX s to REPS. WANTED ARIZONA, or PENN students or GA s tho t se gol-durn duck JOkes all overM1am1 Money talks My wallet IS shout­NEED 3 G A S FOR PURDUE AND 2 Call8024 ---trme rs runnrng out!!! campus. you d better Have we got an or·Ing Charlie xf 027 GAS FOR MIAMI CALL KATHY AT 1833 MOLARITY: NO OUTLET dered pair for you1And you thought th1s that's a pretty cheap way to get sympathy Almost funny. was over our heads Ah wetl -ToodlesNeed Purdue Student and GAs -Ph1itix, pal NEED PURDUE STUDENT TIX CALL & Space Cadet 1764ILOST/FOUND I 1193 The L-5 Soc1ety w111 hold 1ts first meet1ng hsten you two frazzle brarns. my duckNeed PU GAs Pay MUCH $$ Call 277­I have 2 MIAMI GAs and would like to and program on Tuesday Sept 21 1n JOkes are funny besides you probably7529,277-7057.256-0226 LOST: Set of keys at N.D. football game. FOR SALE lrade them for 2 ARIZONA GAs CALL LaFortune L1ttle Theater at 7:30 pm haven t heard them all. oh their so funny PURPLE RABBIT'S FOOT attached wi Sheryl at 6979 1f Interested Come and find out why we humans need haha and ah well1s my 11ne keys. If found, please call 283-6865. FOR SALE:CCM Super Tacks brand DESPERATELY NEED GA TIXS FOR to colomze and mdustnallze SPACE and now get back to your school work! Reward for its return-$$$. new ..Pro-lite blades s1ze 8 Larry .. 1722 PURDUE PETE 232-1466 Need 2 or 4 M1amrGA s Call M1ke x8715 · how 1t can be done NOW' Be There b1gbro  

't 
~. 
.. 

Tuesday, September 21, 1982-page 9 
The Observer 
Ruggersdown Montclair St., 27-0 

RUGBY -The Rugby Club's A squad upped its record to 2-0 with a commanding 27-0 shutout victory over Montclair State College of New Jer-sey. The Irish took control at the beginning and did not lose their edge throughout the entire match. 
Inside center Brian Foley, scrum-halfBrian Moynihan and wingers John Pearl and John Gooebelecker all scored four-point tries. Steve Schneider was a perfect 4-for-4 on his conversions and added one three-point penalty kick for a total of eleven points. Mike Cooney also had an outstanding day for the ruggers. 
The outcome of the game was never in doubt as the Irish dominated every aspect ofplay. Senior Yogi Butler even went as far as to proclaim that "this was without a doubt the best game that we have played in two years. We really played strong." Many of the players credited the strong play to new coach Dale Toohey. Toohey is the first coach in the history of the Rugby Club. 
The Irish B team wa~ not as lucky Saturday as it lost I:'>-<l to a group of Notre Dame atumni. The C side also went down in defeat 16-0 to Montclair's second. team. The B team's record fell to 0-2 while the C team stands t.'VCn at 1-J. 
The team's next match will he Saturday at I 0 a.m. against Purdue. 
CROSS COl''\ITRY -The Notre Dame women's cro~s country team 1>tarted its season off right by captur­ing the team championship at the Southwest Michigan Relay~ on Saturday. This b the second year in a row that the women have won the invitational event. The Rdays require teams ot two women to run six miles, each woman running an alternate mile. 
Leading the lrhh \\ ith a third-place finish were Rose :\tarie Luking and :\'lary O'Connor. Coming in just a step behind in fourth place were :\Iaria Fiore and Anne Attea. Rounding out the tirst-place finish for the team were Lori Struzik and Am\' Kerwin in se\'enth place and Susan Wanchow and (,ina Ochsn<:r in eighth place overall. 
The team faces hi!-!hly-ranked Eastern Michigan this Saturday. 
SOCCER -The women's soccer team made an auspi­
cious debut Saturday hdore bowing ;'1-1 to Wheaton 
College of ll!inois. 
On the strength of a Carol· Homme goal in the first 
half, the women battled to a 1·1 stand-otr with just tl\'e 
minutes remaining. It was at that po111i :hat the troublt: 
began. W'heaton was awarded an indirect kick near the 

YOU'RE WASTING YOUR MONEY BUYING ANYWHERE ELSE! 


Steve Bunco 
Sports Writer Club Comer 
goal which they were able to convert for a score. just seconds later, Wheaton was given a second free kick which also found the net to erase any hopes of the team's first victory. 
Tracy Walters was a stalwart in goal for the Irish as she was able to turn back countless scoring tries from the fast and aggressive Wheaton team. Helen Locher also had a sterling performance. She was ahie to control both the offense and the defense from her midfield posi· tion. 
This is the firM year that the women's soccer team has heen granted club status. 
The women's ll team also came away empty-handed Sunday in their tlrst game. They were shut out 6-0 by a team from a \1ichiana women's soccer league. One team member remarked after the game, "We were so tired after the long weekend that we jus·t couldn't seem to get anything going offensively or defensively." 
WATER POLO -The water polo team bqz.in1> its season this Friday against Purdue at-p.m. at the Rockne :\temorial Pool. 
Cardinals down Phillies , 
extend NL East lead to 5112 
ST. LOt:IS ( AP)-Joaquin Andujar and Bruce Sut­ter combined to scatter nine hits, while (;eorge Hendrick hammered a two-run double, as the sur­ging St. Louis Cardinals opened their National League East lead to '; II 2 games with their eighth straight victory. a -!·I triumph last night over the second-place Philadelphia Phillies. 
The victory reduced St. Louis' magic numher to eight for the NL east title. Any combination of Car­dinal victories and Phillie losses adding up to eight 
t will give St. Louis its tirst divisional title in historv. 
L . 
PRICES GOOD THRU September 25 


TAILC.ATER'S SPECIALS 
i..HA.rrfm·;s··ss·:·49..i 
* •
:fROM THE LAND OF CASE • 
* SKY ·BLUE WAIERS ~ 
************************ ***************************• 
Beer Specials ~ Quart Specials ~ Kegs ~ 
~ 
Budweiser

Molsen Gold 6-pak $2.99 • Old Milwaukee $7.49 ~ $8. 9f1 -«: Budweiser $8.99 ~ Pabst
Michelob case $3.49 ~ Miller $8.99. Michelob
Coors 6-pak 
Ota Styh~ case $6.9& i( Miller Lite $8.99 iC Miller 
Mlckeys Mait case btl $7.49 ~ ~ Generic 
At halftime ofSaturday's Logan Center benefit basketball game, Logan Center All-Star teams stole the show au·ay from the big names present u•itb their ou•n brand ofspirited basketball. (Photo by Rachel Blount). ­
-
LORD CALVERT 

lord of the Canadians 

' l.lllRD $10.99
l 

AlV[RT i 
'.1\40/A~ I 

~~1.75 LITER 
RIUNITE
l .'-'"'"'" 
~i\
~~ $2.49 
'--~ 750 ML. 

$29.99 CARLO ROSSI 
~ ~8.99 
$J3.99 $29.99 
~iii~9
$19.99 BIG 
4 LITER 

~--------------------~-------------------------1 
·----------------------------------1 
'· 750ML II 1.75ML II J·ROGET $2 49 I Jack Daniels $7.99 I Kamchatka VODKA $8.99 ' American Champagne • I Bacardi Rum $5.99 J Calvert GIN $9.99 ! (Spumonte, White, Pink Burgundy ~ Tanqueray Gin $8.99 I Ron Cruzada Rum $9.99 1 and Aim ante) I 7 Crown $5.99 I Canada House • 
·---------------------------------~ 
I Wua i'urkev 86 $7.99 1 Whiskey $10.991 
South Bend Ave. L---------------------~------------------------~ Store Only 
-----------------------------------l 
.. 
The Observer Tuesday, September 21, 1982 page 10 

ATHENS (AP) -The University "This case was limited to viola­of Georgia football team has been tions that occurred in the placed on one year probation for recruitment of one prospective violating National Collegiate Ath­student-athlete by a former assistant
-letic Association recruiting football coach and· two. guidelines last season, but sanctions representatives of the university's do not include restriction from athletic interests," said Charles television or bowl-game ap­Wright, chairman of the NCAA com­pearances, the NCAA said Monday. mittee on Infractions. Penalties include the loss of three Georgia eventually released the football grants-in-aid for new recruit in question from a national recruits for the 1983-1984 letter ofintent, the NCAA said. academic year, the NCAA said in a The case involved violations of news release. The NCAA also said NCAA recruiting legislation related Georgia must restrict two "outside to improper inducements, representatives of its athletic inter­automobile transportation and ests" from participating in the recruiting contracts, the NCAA said. recruitment of prospective student­The probationary period took ef­athletes during probation. fect last Friday, the NCAA said. ,........................................................................................................,....................."IThe Observer -~---------~ 
tJ::~~F There will be a mandatory ~ workshop for all news department 
staff tonight at 6:30 in the Lafortune Little Theater. Anyone interested in writing for the Observer.is encouraged to attend. 
............................................................................................................................... 

ORGAN~ATIONALMEETING 
6:30pm 
WRITERS' MEETING 
7:30pm 
--
For all those who signed up at Activities Night and any other interested parties-­please come! 
................................................................................................................................. 
~oear Skip' 
Let·ters to the Traitor 
I kit like going to confession yesterday. 
:-.Jot that the weekend was tbat eventful. But I picketi 
'-lichigan mlast Friday·~ paper. At the time·. there was no 
doubt tn my mind that I was doing the nght thing. The 
guilt came, though, when I h(:gan to read my mail. 
llere's a ~ample: 
Dear Skip: 
We bun.t: your picks 011 tbe u•a/1 of tbe locker room. Rock11e ner•er bud /Je/ter nwteriaf to u•ork u•itb. Tbc>J' should bar·e putyou in tbat mol'ie as(/ way to inspire the jJ/liJ'<'I:,·. 
( ,'od Bless l'lnr. 
Gerry Faus/ 
P.S. /Jo me a jiwor. Write more. 
Dt:ar Coach. 
When the going gets tough. and tht: breaks are 
beating the boys. just tell them to go out there and win 
one for the Skipper. 
Skip 
Skip, I hate to say "I toldyou so," but I toldyou so. Chris Needles 
Chris, What did you expect? "Emeritus" is Greek for "Never takes advice." Skip 
Dear Benedict Arnold, 
I hope you feel good now. You ingrate. How could you pick Michigan after all this fine school bas do11e for you? They should takeyour diploma away. 
A loyal Alumnus 
Dear General Washington, 
The march has been a tough one. But I am determined to succeed, because someday I want to be just like you. 
Ben 
Skip: 
Keep your chin up. We have to stick together, you know. One of these days, those of us wbo really bate Notre Dame will get the last laugh. Maybe I'll see you again at the Penn Sta(J! game. 
Sincere~y, 
Frank Broyles 
Frank: People who really hate Notre Dame do not come back for a second degree. Cordially, Skip Desjardin 
Kid-­You gave it your best shot. The check is in the mail. Bo 
Bo-­Keep the money. The way your team played, you may need it. Kid 
Skip, 
I am informed that you picked our opponents to win last week's game. Please be advised that your name is coming off the list of alumni eligible to receil'efootball tickets. 
Another donation -larger this time -will be re­quired to get your name back on the fist. Yours in Notre Dame, Ted 
BEGINNER OR ADVANCED Coslrs abOullhe same dS a semesler '" ,, US college $3.189 Pr1ce rncludes 1e1 round lrop 10 Sevolle /rom New York, room. ooard. and turtton complete Government grants and loans a variable tor elrgrbte students 
uve wrl~a·Spantsh lamrly. attend classes low hours a day.lour days a week. four months Earn 16 hrs ol credrt (eQurvatent to 4 semesters taught rn U S colleges over a two year ttme span) YoUf Spanrsh studres w•ll be enhanced by opportunrtres not avarlabte 1n aU S class
• 


SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
For full information-write to: 
2442 E. Collier S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 
Ted. I gal'(· ir my be~t _,hot. The cht-ck i.., in the mail. 
Uear Mr. J)esjtirdrn. 
\f'e/1, _l'rJll sure nwde afoot ofyourselfFriday. }"ou desen•e till/be almse)'utl areRUi11g to get. I.e/ me be the first to ru/J il in 
Unsigned 

lkar Dad, Thi~ letter tor ,-ou came to mt: hy miMake. \'<'hat hap pcned Friday' Skip 
Dear Voter: 
Nancy ami I tllways like to see Notre Dame u•in. Coacb Faust tells us you were main~}' responsible. Congratulations. Keep up the good work. America needs brightyoung people likeyourself 
Sincerely, Ronald Reagan 

Dear Mr. President, 
I always like to see poverty and social unrest. My professors tell me you are mainly responsible. Con­gratulations. Keep up the good work. America doesn't need lower and middle-class people anyway. 
Sincerely, Skip Desjardin 

Dearformer resident: 
After reading your picks in last Friday's paper, we have decided to takeyour clippings offthe wall in the lounge. Please do not come back here. We will deny ever knowing you. 
Stanford Hall Council 

Dear former friends, 
That's OK, anyway.  I've always denied having lived there Skip  
Skip,  

You pull a stunt like that during basketball season, and that's it. You're out. Digger 
Digger, Don't worry. You think I'd be dumb enough to pick Akron? Or Stonehill? How about Canisius? Skip 
DearSkip, 
How could you? We just got our paper in the mail. We are so ashamed. And we thought we se11tyou offto school to get an education. Didn't you learn all)'­tbing? One more mot'e like that m1d ~~~~·u disownyo;,. 
f.Ol'f!, 
1Uom 

P.S. Thanksfor the Purdue tickets. We'll see vou Frida)'. 
P.P.S. Wear a sweater, it's getting chit~)'. -­
Dear Mom, 
You're welcome. And don't worry, I won't embarrass you this weekend. I'm picking Notre Dame-whatever the spread is. l.o\'e. 
Skip 

rourn Slttrll1arolle<J tests snow our stuoents language skillS superiOf' 10 5tudents complet1ng twc year programs 10 U S Ad\lanced courses also 
Hurry, 11 takes a lot of lime to make all arrangements SPRING SEMESTER-Feb I June 1 1 FALL SEMESTER-Sepl 10 Dec 22 each year FULLY ACCRf:DITED A program ol Tronoly Chros1ran College 




~----~----­
-----~ -~ 

The_Observer===--=--=c-====-==--=-o============== 


The ND Student ~nion presents the 
.;' ~ V:'~~ ~corrmca~ ~~£~m ~ncornr.m~ ILCID~~mrnTI'

cEJ? .'J," · Reg1strat!on: Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday 12: :
30105 30 

in The IriSh Gardens ~nthebasementoflaFortuneatthesouthendoftheNazz) 
Must register in person with ID 
..

Winners will be published in Friday's Observer winners may purchase ticket Friday, Monday, or Tuesday10-4at the SU Ticket Office/Record·Store 
'JI['~4[]1l~~============================T=u=es=d=a=y='=Se=p=t=e=m=b=e=r=2=1=,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e===ll
Doonesbury 

Simon 
511-t?N, l'ltiAT I~ lHI~ 51Uff AWJr 'lJO lAUNDKY :if/IYI(f" IN ffiRII:;RAI'H 
11'1£{ ¥~ ? 
11RI~D, t\ID, 
EIJT THfY WOULDN'T 

Nobody's Prefect 
The Daily Crossword 
:91982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

lliJT I AM ANOTRE DAM£ Mittf'. Alt liOT~f 'DAM£. MAlE~ ~r ~AYE LAUNDRY ~R.YicE ! 

ACROSS 28 Moon 1 Relatives vehicle, of ciao for short 
6 Eras 31 Small 10 Pack bottle 14 Bahamas 34 Cravat 
spot 35 Black 15 Factual 37 Got away 16 Musical 39 Yellowish 
tag gem 17 Newsprint 41 L~al 18 Semester excuse 19 Rare person 42 Dock union: 20 French abbr. 
river 43 Plate 21 Family 44 Conducted 
favoring 45 Phantasms 23 Mr. Buttons 49 Kettle· 24 Tennis shoe drum 27 Criterion 50 Rotten 
Monday's Solution 

9121181 

Garry Trudeau 

: Campus 
• 
;'1::'10 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion to TSO, Room liS Computing Center 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs. Southern lllinois, Courtney·courts 

•4 
p.m.-Soccer, NO Men vs. St. Joseph's, Alumni Field 

•7 
p.m. -Placement Meeting, For Arts and Let­ters Graduating students. CCE Auditorium 


•:, and 9:30p.m. -Film, "Ragtime", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by B.C.A.C., Sl.OO 
• .., p.m. -Conference on Relationships and Sexuality, "The Psychology of Attraction", 0(. 
C.W. Tageson, Carroll Hall.
Jeb Cashin 
•7:.>,0, 9:30, and II:30 p.m -Film, "The African '&SIDb, Tlt£ tA!JNOOY iS NT Queen", also "Who's On First", Chautaqua Coffee 
CAUE.D ··r~E. ti.f\.MUOA lf{IANGlf" f~ NOTftiN6 . 
House (LaFortune Ballroom), Sponsored by Notre 1 TH£'{ lCY.:f A LDT 
Dame Student llnion, Sl.OO 
•1 0 p.m. -Call in Talk Show, Speaking ofSports, Bill Lanesey, WSND AM 64, Sponsored by WSND· AM64, 
: T.V. Tonight I 
K.C. Ryan 
6:30p.m. 16 22 28 34 
7p.m. 16 22 
28 

34 7:30p.m. 28 8P.M. 22 
28 34 8:30p.m. 28 9p.m. 16 28 34 10p.m. 16 22 28
53 Identical 25 Tiny 
34

57 Gaucho's Archibald 
!0:30p.m. 16
rope 26 Oklahoma 
22

59 Hebrew town measure 27 Pavement 
28 60 Song square 
34 62 City leader 28 Lombardy 
llp.m. 28 63 Hoopteam commune 
11:30 16 64 Negate 29 Seth's son 65 Go-between 30 Fable 
66 Like the 31 Calf meat 
Brian
Sahara 32 Key 67 Meeting: 33 Corrosive 
abbr. 36 Auction 
68 Dramatic items com plica· 38 English lions tribe 
39 Court DOWN statement 1 Tropic 40 Merit by 
grazer working 2 Lower 42 Menaces 3 Recorded 46 Lapse in 4 Maple continuity 
genus 47 Resistant 5 Most tender 48 Flier 6 Lawyer: 50 Howled 
abbr. 51 Make up 7 Portable for bomb 52 Pub sport 8 I found it! ·53 Couch 
9 -Fidelis 54 Arab prince 10 Highlander 55 .Biblical 11 Tennille tribe name 
olsong 56 Astaire 12 Pindarics 58 Othello's 
BRIAN NEE DS ..HE.~VY-DUTY BEER 
13 Tepid "friend" 22 Command 61 Dawn deity PAMPERS FOR ttAPPY \-\OURS. 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 2H The MacNeil/Lehrer Report M*A*S*H* Family Feud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk Father Murphy CBS Special: The Bugs Bunny/Road Runner Movie 
Happy Days 
National Geographic 
Laverne and Shirley 
CBS Tuesday Night Movie: "Hero·At· 
Large" 
Three's Company Mystery 
Too Close for Comfort "International Terrorism" Hart to Hart American Dreamers 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 2H Dick Cavett Show Tonight Show Quincy and McMillan & Wife ABC News Nightline Captioned ABC News Fantasy Island Late Night with David Letterman. 
The saga ofthe youngest domer 
... 
-


---~--~-­
~ 

Tuesday, September 21, 1982 -page 12 

I
' 
I 116yards
I I ! Moriarty's speed, power spur Irish 
By STEVE LABATE that's exactly what we did." double threaL Granted one game Sports Writer Moriarty's run didn't lead to more does not a season make, but it ap­points, but it did get the Irish out of pears that Larry Moriarty has come Perhaps overshadowed by Blair risky territory at a time in the game into his own. Besides his rushing Kiel's performance in Saturday's 23-when a couple of first downs were statistics, his blocking w;Lo; very ef­17 victory over Michigan was the crucial. The play definitely took fective, and he caught two passes 
coming of age of fullback larry some of the momentum away from coming out of the backfield. Moriarty. The 6-2, 223-pound senior the Wolverines. This type of all-around perfor­from Santa Barbara, Calif., rushed for The performance turned in by mance by a fullback is something the 
I 16 yards on 16 carries. Moriarty on Saturday evening has to Irish offense has sorely missed over 
The performance by Moriarty, a please Coach Gerry Faust. After a the past few seasons. In fact, sophomore transfer from Sama Bar­season of playing "musical ful­Moriarty's 116 yards rushing was the bara City College, was his single lbacks" with Moriarty, john first time that an Irish fullback had game Notre Dame career high (his Sweeney and Mark Brooks, Faust has gone over 100 yards since jerome previous best was 78 yards against decided this season to stick with the Heavens performed the feat in the Army in 1980). "I knew I could do Moriarty. It remains to be seen 1978 27-7 Irish victory over Navy in 
it," said an elated Moriarty in the 
whether Faust will utilize Moriarty Cleveland. postgame locker room, "but saying the rest ofthe season the way he did So it would appear to all who 
and doing are two different things." against Michigan. watched Saturday's victory over At the outset of the game, the Moriarty obviously has the tools Michigan that Moriarty will be a new Notre Dame offense resembled the -strength (he has bench pressed force that Irish opponents will have 
offense of last season and those of 
425 pounds) and quickness. It's up to contend with this season. the Dan Devine era Specifically, it to Faust to use these tools in his Michigan found that out on a night consisted of handoffs and pitchouts weekly game plan. that long will be remembered as the to the halfbacks, with an occassional Defenses in the past have been evening the lights shined brightly on short pass thrown every now and able to stymie the Notre Dame run­Notre Dame. But it was Larry then. ning game by keying on the halfb~ck, Moriarty upon whom they shone But on the third play ofthe second but now Moriarty gives the Irish a most brilliantly. quarter, with Notre Dame leading 3­0, Moriarty took a handofffrom Kiel, bounced off a Michigan tackler, scooted around left end for 24 yards 
Freshmen propel
and the touchdown, at which point he wao; swarmed under by a portion of the delerious student body. It 
Irish over Wheaton 
Larry Moriarty rushed for a career high 116 yards on 16 carries marked the second year in a row in against Michigan Saturday night to spurNotre Dame on to a 23-17 which Moriarty scored the first Irish 
ByALGNOZA Chang broke the drought for the 
vi~tory vver the Wolverines. See related story at right. (Photo by touchdown ofthe season. 
Sports Writer Irish with a blast from 20 yards out 
Rachel Blount). later, midway through the fourth 
with just over 32 minutes left to play 

quarter, after Steve Smith's 39-yard 
It looked like an exact duplicate of in the game. Then at 29: I 5, Notre 
TD pass brought Michigan to within 
Friday night's disaster. The rain was Dame rookie halfback Chris Telk 
six points, Notre Dame faced its to Dave
coming down in buckets, and the lofted a pass Miles, who
-NFLplayersstrike; 
most crucial series of the contest. 
Notre Dame soccer team was staring redirected the ball into the upper
Once again it wao; Larry Moriarty 
at a bright goose egg on its side of left hand corner of the goal.
who provided the offense with the 
the scoreboard. Same old Irish right? In just over three minutes the 
big play it needed. 
Irish had doubled their offensive

first in tnid-season 
From the ND 2I, Moriarty Same old Irish wrong. 
output of Friday night's -~-I loss to powered up the middle, broke into Notre Dame awoke from a mild of­

NEW YORK ( AP) -The National reaching a solution. Any further Ohio State, and they weren't 
the open, then faked left, cut right, fensive slump to ram home three
Football League Players Association, comment will come from the NFL finished yet. 
and headed for the sideline. By the second-half goals within a span of
unable to negotiate a guaranteed management Council." Before the drenched home crowd 
time he was brought down, he four minutes to down visiting
piece ofa billion-dollar pie, on Mon­The strike, the second midseason stopped howling, Tom Daley made 
netted 3 7 yards. "It was a misdirec­Wheaton, 3-0, hopefully setting the
day called the first regular-season interruption of American profes­it 3-0 as he scorched a 20-yard free 
tion play, but the rea-;on for its hosts back on the winning track.
strike in the sport's history, effective sional sports in less than two years, kick off the goalkeeper's hands and 
success was due to our offensive "We had looked upon this game as
after last night's Green Bay Packers­revolves around money. A 50-day into the net. The Irish were rocking;
line," said Moriarty. "Everytime a possible turning point," confessed
New York Giants game. strike by major-league baseball a once-timid offense suddenly
something happened to break our winning coach Rich Hunter.
The first game affected will be players last summer dealt with showed signs offire. 
momentum, the offensive line said "Hopefully it will be just that." 
Thursday night, between the Atlanta movemnent of free agents between "The kids played well." said Hun­
'let's run it right hack at them,' and After a scoreless first half, Steve 
-
Falcons and the Kansas City Chiefs in teams. ter. "We had been practicing that Kansas City. The football players, who the uni­free kick at length during practice "At the conclusion of tonight's on says are paid an average of yesterday, and today it paid off." (last night's) game, the league will S83,000 a season, want a guaranteed 
ND volleyballteam 
be struck," said union president 50 percent share of the clubs' S2.1 Wheaton, however, wa~ not about 
Gene Upshaw, a guard for the Los billion television contract plus a to roll over. Forward Mark Weld 
Angeles Raiders. "No practices, no wage scale based on seniorty. came in alone on Irish goalie Gerard
rolls overS'WMichigan
workouts, no games will be played The owners, through Donlan, McCarthy and just missed a goal. 
until management engages in good­have flatly rejected the ideas ofwage ByJEFF BLUMB Freshman Tracy Bennington The blown opportunity seemed to 
faith bargaining. scales and guaranteed percentages Sports Writer came into the match at the start of take the spark out of the visitor's of­
"We are united. We are prepared ofany revenue for the players. the second game and stayed for the fense. From then on it seemed as if it to withhold our services for as long The difference in the costs of the Preparing to pack its bags and hit rest of the night. Bennington, a very was just a matter of playing out the as it takes. The players ofthe NFL, as packages demanded by the players the road for the next month, the quick player, played excellent clock. of tonight, will be on strike. We did and offered by the owners is negli­Notre Dame women's volleyball defense, diving and saving many 
The night did not start out bleakly

not want to get into this position but gible. The players want S 1.6 billion team beat Southwestern Michigan halls. 
for Wheaton as the boys from Illinoiswe are forced to get management to over four years; the owners have of­College I 5-7, I 5-I, 16-14 last night "Tracy played just super," said An­

came out and took the play to the

bargain with us." fered s 1.6 billion over five years. before yet another full house in the derson. "She will probably he Irish. after
Ed Garvey, the union's executive The union said it had filed a new ACC pit. replacing julia Pierson in the start­Moments Miles was 
stoned at point blank range fordirector, said the players hope the unfair labor practice charge with the The Irish women opened strong ing line-up soon." 

Notre Dame, Wheaton came hackstrike "will force the owners to start National Labor Relations Board on and sailed to their first game victory "She came out of the walls over­with two consecutive bullets off the

bargaining." Monday following an announce­with the help of Mary McLaughlin's night," added Vanslager, "and has goalpost. Both teams could havejack Donlan, executive director of ment by the management council nine straight service points, three of tremendous potential as young as easily into
the NFL management Council, that it was "unalterably opposed" to which were never returned. she is. I am very pleased with her gone halftime with a. couple ofgoals on the board, but the
bargaining arm of the owners, said bargaining for a wage scale. "Mary hao; been serving so good performance." 
netminders hung tough -especial­the owners "regret that the union The owners have a multi-million that the team almost expects it," said Vanslager also praised McLaugh­ly the veteran McCarthy.

has chosen this path. The only dif­dollar loan guarantee to tide them Irish Coach Sandy Yanslager. Assis­lin's pao;sing, saying that it is essential 
ferences between us seems to be over, but Garvey said the union has tant coach Dan Anderson compli­in running the ND offense. "Her and 
It would be hard to say what length of a new contract and no strike fund. mented the team's serving this year Karen Bauters, although young, are 
turned the Irish offense around last whether the players will be paid by "However," he continued, "the as a whole, pointing out that it hao; the most experienced and really night. You could say that the Irish 
individual negotiations or by means players have been preparing for this only four serving errors in all of its hold the team together," she said. 
finally started to get the breaks. but ofa wage scale tied to a fund. for two years. We'll be able to matches. The third-year coach wa<; not as 
the real story may lie in the strong"Therefore, we will proceed with weather the storm." The second game saw Notre pleased with he team·s performance 
bench that Hunter has. After shaky our scheduled executive committee The executive council's strike Dame roll to an easy I 5-I victory ir. in the final game. though. After hold­
first halves in the past two games.meeting tonight and determine our vote was unanimous. The only mem­what amounted to a rout, pure and ing leads of 5-0 and I0-J. the Irish 
Notre Dame has clearly worn down course of action. After we have in­ber of the board present simple. The Irish were able consis­lost the lead and at om: point were

not was ib last two opponents in the second formed our member clubs of our john Bunting of the Philadelphia tently to lay the ball in between the down I+ I--~-Three different times 
half 

decisions and what actions they Eagles. He was delayed by a rail frustrated Southwestern Michigan the girls held when the Roadrunners Notre Dame hopes to continue
should take, we will explain our strike. defenders. of SMC had game point before St. Joe's comes
position to the public." Elvin Bethea of Houston. a mem­All on the floor played well in the \1c Laughlin st·rved the final three to playing well as to town roday ti>r its annual lobotomy.
The I t eague responded to the ber of the committee, said: "this was second game. Co-captain Josie complete the three-game sweep. The lrbh then will travel to
strike with a two-sentence state­a real trying decision that we had to ~laternowski led the way by getting "I was disappointed with our Bloomington for a showdown with
ment: "We are hopeful that negotia­make. We deeply regret it but feel it ti>Ur service points and often spiking See IRISH, page 8 the Indiana Hoosiers on Friday.
tions will resume promptly aimed at was the just and right thing to do." the ball past the helpless opposition. 




