---·--~-----------~---·---~. 
Oil industry -page 6
' ' 

VOL. XVII, NO. 64 thl' indl'pent.lcnt ~tut.lcnt IH.'\\~paptT ~l'rving notrl' daml' anti ~aintmary·~ THURSDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1982 
Cites family as reason 

Kennedy bows out of race 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. Ed-Democratic nomination from in-my decision, I think." ward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) an-cumbent Jimmy Carter two years Kennedy had geared up to run, nounced yesterday that he will not ago, but led in the early polls for the s t pending S750,000 on television seek or accept the 1984 Democratic I984 contest: When stepping aside, commercials in Massachusetts even presidential nomination even he endorsed no other contender, though his Senate re-election was though he believes it was his to but held open the possibility ofsuch assured, beefing up his political and claim. With his children alongside, an endorsement. fundraising staff, and authorizing he cited "overriding" obligations to The decision left former Vice aides to solicit advice from cam­them as the basis of the decision to President Walter F. Mondale as the paign veterans about setting up an-dismantle a budding campaign. frontrunner in an already crowded other bid for the White House. 
"I don't think there's any mystery field of unannounced Democratic In addition, two aides disclosed, I would like to be president," he candidates. Other liberals, including Kennedy had commissioned polls in said. "Were the decision to be made Rep. Morris Udall of Arizona, may New Hampshire as well as Iowa and solely on political grounds, I would now be encouraged to fill the void Illii:IOis. They said he made his deci­have made a different announce-Kennedy's announcement was a sion not to run before knowing the ment today." political bombshell in Washington, results of the midwestern polls. 
The withdrawal of the Massachu-even though it was well known that "I believe my first and overriding setts senator came 451 days before his family did not want him to par-obligation now is to Patrick, Kara the first presidential primary, in ticipate in a 1984 campaign. Ken-and Teddy," he said. "I will not be a March 1984. nedv met with the clan over candidate for president of the 
Kennedy failed in a bid to take the Tha~ksgiving, and "they all support United States in 1984." 

'Save the buses' 
Van Wolvlear blasts Burke 
ByTOMMOWLE 
Burke said the Senate was bill "is a serious matter. The resolu­News Staff "making light on purpose." The cost tion makes us look petty." He went of the damage "is not really any on to propose another solution: "IfI 
Father John Van Wolvlear, Vice money at all" for the university, he were the coach, I would have paid it President for Student Affairs, said said, but also said, "Ifstudents think myselfbecause it was a great display Tuesday that Lloyd Burke, Student 
we should pay, we'll do something." of school spirit, the likes of which Body President, "is not facing the Van Wolvlear said this is the first we haven't seen since the Alabama issue" with the "Save the Buses" 
time TRANSPO has billed the uni­game in 1980." Burke said that campaign he initiated at Monday's 
versity since he has been here, al­"future action is up· in the air at this Student Senate Meeting. though a bus windshield was broken point." Means of collecting the Van Wolvlear said that the Student after the 1981 Sugar Bowl win over money for the bill will be discussed 
Government has no basis for expect­

Alabama. The damage this year at tonight's Campus Life Council ing the administration to pay the necessitated the replacement ofrear meeting. 1!824.75 in damages done to the doors and door rails on two buses, as TRANSPO buses carrying the foot­well as the replacement of 
ball team after the Pittsburgh vic­windshield wipers, a rear window, a 
Lack ofresponse cited 
tory. sign rack, a right mirror, and an air "They (the students) wrecked the conditioning screen. buses, so why should the administra­Burke said he believes that the ad­

Brainstorm deadline extended 
tion pay?," Van Wolvlear said He ministration should pay the bill. Af­added that such measures as billing ter earning "at least one million ByDAN MCCULLOUGH 
By moving the deadline to next Since most of the entries have the Student Union would not be dollars in television money this year, StaffReporter come from juniors and seniors, the
Tuesday, the Student Senate hopes necessary "if they (the students) they're arguing about S824. 75," he to arouse new interest in the con­sophomores and freshmen are en­could learn to control themselves said. The Student Senate announced 
test. "People are always complaining couraged to become involved in the and their actions." Van Wolvlear countered that the this week that the deadline for about campus life. Well, this is their contest. Students with sugges­The "Save the Buses" resolution, television money issue "is ir­entries to Operation Brainstorm, the chance to improve it," said Tucker. tions should see the sample form in which passed by an 8-6 vote, calls for relevant. Ifwe earned twice as much contest that awards cash prizes for 
"It would be difficult to go to the ad­today's Observer or contact any Stu­a 12 cent donation from "all mem­could they wreck the buses?" He students' ideas on improving 

ministration with the number of dent Senate member. "Any idea is bers of the undergraduate student also noted that the administration is campus life, has been extended to 
responses we have so far." welcome," said Tucker. 

body and any others participating in only charging for the TRANSPO bill, next Tuesday. the 'welcoming' '.' as an answer to a not for the labor involved in clean­Lack of student response made Nov. 19 letter to Burke from Van ing up after the homecoming the extension necessary. "We 
Wolvlear requesting payment ofthe celebration. received only 25 entries," admitted TRANSPO bill. Not all Student Senators believe Brainstorm coordinator Andy Tuck­
Link to Tylenol case 

Burke said he does not expect to the "Save the Buses" campaign is a er, "Maybe it's just apathy." raise the entire amount from this good response. Jim Leous, Tucker ruled out inadequate voluntary drive. 
Cavanaugh Hall President, said the publicity as a reason for the lack of 


questionedin Illinois 

response, as pos~ers advertising the contest had been placed in every LOS ANGELES (AP)-KevinJohn Masterson was arrested Tue!tday dormitory .~nd in the dining halls as Masterson, sought for questioning in on a charge of marijuana possession 
well as other campus buildings. the Tylenol poisoning case, was or­but was not arraigned formally on Sample forms also had been run in dered back to Illinois yesterday after that charge yesterday. The only mat­The Observer. he waived extradition. ter addressed at his hearing was ex­
The contest features a grand prize Masterson, 35, appeared in a Los tradition on the charge. 
of S50, and a S25 and S10 prizes for Angeles courtroom after spending Masterson was sought by Chicago second and third places, respective­the night in a padded cell, the result authorities because ofstatemen~s he ly. The final evaluation will take of a violent incident in which he allegedly made linking himselfto the 
place on Dec. 10, with suggestions became enraged, scuffied with seven deaths from cyanide-t<~inted to be judged by acommittee consist­jailers and smashed the toilet in his capsules ofExtra-Strength Tylenol. 
ing of four students and three ad­jail cell. Illinois Attorney General Tyrone ministration members. Prizes will be But appearing before Municipal Fahner told a Chicago news con­awarded for innovation as well as Court Judge Michael H. Tyman, the ference Tuesday night that his task 
practicality. sandy-haired mechanic was calm force would ask that Masterson sub­The contest, which had received and spoke softly as he acknowledged mit to a polygraph examination. 
strong student support in previous that he hd been apprised of his right He said that Masterson's attorney, years, was discontinued in .1977 for to fight extradition. David Schippers, has indicated Mas­unspecified reasons. Previous win­"I think I understand it, yes," Mas­terson will voluntarily take the lie ning ideas have included painting terson said as the judge allowed him detector test. bicycles abandoned in winter to read through the formal waiver he "We definately want to talk to him storage green and renting them to had just !figned. about the Tylenol murders," Fahner students for a nominal fee. and in­The judge turned him over to two said. "We expect him to say he Is not stalling lights at the Stepan basket­Illinois investigators in the involved, but now that we have him ball courts (a 1975 winner that has courtroom and told Masterson, in custody, we have some questions 
only very recently been realized). "Good luck to you, sir." we want to ask." 




-~ 



News Brie/§ 
By The Ohserwr and The Associated Press 
The Snite Museum ofArt will not be open late this evening, as previously announced by the Museum. The public has been invited to view current exhibits until8 p.m. Thursdays and until4p.m. on other days.-The Observer 
Thejustice and Peace Center, in cooperation 
with the Leadership Conference of Women Religious will observe the second anniversary of the deaths of the four American women murdered in El Salvador on Dec. 2, 1980. The public is invited to participate in a prayer vigil for justice in El Salvador at noon today at the Federal Building in downtown South Bend. A mass will be celebrated at 7:30p.m. in the Regina Hall chapel at Saint Mary's com­memorating the four women. -The Observer 
President Reagan made a verbal slipup when he toasted the people ofBolivia-instead ofBrazil-at a dinner hosted in his honor yesterday by Brazilian President Joao Baptista Figueiredo. Realizing his mistake as soon as the word was out of his mouth, Reagan then compounded the error by saying, "That's where I'm going." Boliva is not on the agenda for his four-nation Latin -American tour. Closing a lengthy toast, Reagan said: "to President 
Figueiredo, to the people of Bolivia -that's where I'm going -to 
the people of Brazil and to the dream ofdemocracy and peace here 
in the western hemisphere." -AP 
Atelevision filmmade on the Notre Dame campus last year by Family Theater Productions ofHollywood has won a second major award. The New York International Film Festival has awarded The Visitation Mystery, produced by Father Patrick Peyton, a silver medal for second place in film judging. Starring the Notre Dame Glee Club, Bob Newhart and Ge~ry Faust on the campus, segments of Mother Teresa filmed in Washington D.C., the half-hour presenta­tion previously received the Golden Halo Award from the Southern California Picture Council for the best film of 1981. The film was viewed in all areas of the United States last Thanksgiving and was repeated in some areas on Labor Day this year. -Tbe Observer 
Elkhart County Democrats and Richard 
Bodine, who lost to 3rd District Rep. John Hiler, R-Ind, have filed a complaint In the Superior Court of Elkhart, lnd, seeking to overturn a decision denying recounts of general election ballots. With the new complaint, the county election board and Republican can­didates have 20 days from last Monday to file responses, officials said. No hearing date has been set. The action to have all county ballots from the 1982 general election counted again was filed Monday af­ternoon. A few hours earlier, Judge Gene Duffin of Elkhart Circuit Court at Goshen dismissed seven ofeight recount requests made by the Democrats, including one by Bodine, a Mishawaka attorney. Duf­fin said he denied the requests because seven ofthe candidates filed after noon on Nov. 17. Although the deadline was not specifically set In state law, it was Imposed by an earlier court case, he said. -AP 
Workers in Times Beach, Mo. dressed in white plastic suits with black gas masks walked the streets of this small town yesterday, looking for traces ofdeadly dioxin in dirt that children have played in for the past 10 years. Dioxin, a chemical by-product, is one of the most toxic manmade substances -far deadlier than strychnine or cyanide. Scientists do not know what small doses do to humans, b 1 ut it has been shown to create serious health problems in other animals. Environmental Protection Agency workers began testing along the roadsides of this town about 25 miles southwest of St. Louis this week after learning that Russell Bliss, a waste hauler, was hired in 1972 and 1973 to spray city streets with oil to control dust. Bliss is known to have sprayed oil con· taminated with dioxin in several Jefferson County horse arenas in the early 1970s. Horses, birds and small animals later died in those areas. Bliss did not know the oil, obtained from a cheical company, contained the poison. Times Beach, with a population of about 2,500, is the sixth site in Missouri to be tested this year for dioxin contamination. More than a dozen locations are known to contain dioxin, and about 35 other sites are suspected. -AP 
Terrorists in Beirut, Lebanon, detonated a remote· controlled ca:-bomb yesterday in a failed attempt to assassinate left­ist Moslem leader Walid Jumblatt, and the state radio said the fiery blast killed six other people. Hospital authorities said four were killed and 38 wounded. Emergency room attendants at American University Hospital saidJumblau had several shrapnel wounds in his forehead, but was released from the hospital after doctors cleaned and bandaged his injuries. His wife, Gervette, was being treated at the hospital for shock, but was expected to be released soon, medi­cal attendants said. Members of the hospital stall said Jumblatt's bodyguard, Jamal Saab, and a Lebanese police officer were among the dead. No group claimed responsibility for the attack in Moslem· populated west Beirut. The right-wing Christian Phalange Party denounced the bombing as "an effort to rekindle sectarian warfare and block the march toward peace." -AP
. 
The Saint Mary's Alumnae Association 
will be holding a luncheon at Eddy's Restaurant on N. Ironwood. It will be at 12:30 p.m. on Dec. 11. A cocktail hour will take place at noon in the lounge. Christmas carols and songs ofthe season will be provided by local pianist Joseph McGuire. The event is open to guests, and reservations are due this Saturday. -The Observer 
Near orrecord breakingtemperatures today and windy with 70 percent chance of thundershowers. High in mid 60s. Breezy tonight with 70 percent chance of thunderstorms. Low in upper 50s. -AP 
Thursday, December 2, 1982 -page 2 

Power of the press 
In Evelyn Waugh's satiric novel about journalism, Scoop, a famous reporter is sent to cover a revolution in a Third World country. The reporter winds up in a dif­ferent, peaceful country. Not one to disappoint his editor and a reading audience hungry for sensational war reports, the journalist sends totally false reports hack to the newspaper describing the terrible carnage and wanton violence afflicting the war-ravaged country. 
Surely enough. within a week a real revolution breaks out in the previously peaceful country all because ofthe false reports. The moral of the story, as stated by one of Waugh's characters: "News is what we (journalists) say it is." 
Waugh certainly wasn't too far otl' the mark even though the book was written almost 50 years ago. In fact, only last week, one of America's most respected journalists, Edwin Newman, said the exact same thing in his keynote speech for the "Responsibilities ofJour­nalism" conference in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
The scary thing is that Newman was serious. ­
This assertion, coming from such a prestigious source, does more to reflect the herculean power ofthe press than 100 Nixon autobiographies. 
More often than not, the 

press performs admirably in Lifer's march in Washington, their tremendous task of D.C. to more obscure areas collecting and disseminat­ofthe paper, despite the fact ing the most relevant news that hundreds of thousands stories ofthe day in a factual of people participate. But and unbiased manner. But it other causes with much is apparent that Americans fewer people involved, such are being increasingly sub· as the Equal Rights Amend­jected to the sensational ment push, regularly rather than the less exciting received front page 
-but more important -coverage, complete with news stories. Television net· pictures. work news seem to be the What ever happened to most serious offenders in responsible journalism? It's this case. In their incessant far from dead. Most repor­and brutal battle for the ters and editors take their 
ratings, the networks present, in living color, more blood and gore than a low budget martial arts film. And all during the dinner hour. 
But an even greater abuse of the press's power is when they present stories with a sometimes noticeable, sometimessubtle, sometimes blatant bias. Forexample: 
• 
Last year when El Salvador was the top news story everyday, many of the reports coming from that country exhibited a bias toward the left-wing rebels and against the government ofthen-presldent Duarte. 

•Two 
years ago when Russian troops first invaded Mghanistan, Dan Rather wrapped a bathtowel around his head and paraded as a Mghanistinian freedom fighter for the cameras of60 Minutes. The report of· fered very little insight but everyone marveled at the bravery and audacity ofRather. Instead ofreporting the news, In this case the reporter became the news. 

•During 
the height of the Vietnam war, Walter Cronkite, the "most trusted man in America," filed a report about a battle which pitted South Vietnamese and American troops against the North Vietnamese. The Communists had been defeated and the battle already 


Mike Monk 
Editor in Chief 
Inside Thursday 


over for hours when Cronkite reached the scene. With dubbed-in machine gun fire, his report created the illu­sion that the battle was still going on. He also cxag gcratcd American loss of life and reported that the battle was a lost cause for the Americans. 
• More recently the results ofthe November election were presented as a landslide victory for the Democrat'> by much of the press including USA Today and Bryant Gumble of the Today show. A 50-seat gain for the Democrats in the House of Representatives would have constituted a landslide. Their 26-seat gain was a modest victory, far from a landslide. 
These arc some of the more blantant abuses of the press's power. Many times they succeed in twisting the news in much more subtler ways. In the past several 
years many newspapers which I have read have relegated the annual Pro· 

jobs with the seriousness 
they deserve. But as long as sensationalism sells (that pseudo-newspaper Tbe New York Post sells almost one million issues daily), then the "real" news will continue to take a back seat. 
In his speech Newman said "It is part of the (journalist's) job to pult a story in perspective and make sense: of what is happening." A good journalist just has to present the facts; the reader should then draw con· elusions for himself This is what responsible journalism is all about. Not film footage of young soldiers being blown to pieces or misleading headlines and distorted stories. Let's leave that kind of reponing to Pravda and Evelyn Waugh novels. 
Observer note_______, 
The Observer is always looking for new repor· ters in both the sports and news departments, as well as people in advertising and production. No experience is needed, so ifyou're interested call us at 239·5303. You too can be an Obseroerlte! 

Design Editor ............. Deirdre M. Murphy Design Assistant ........ Ken Cerabonehead Layout Staff......................)im Rluenhouse Typesetters ............................. Reggie Daniel 
Mark Miouo News Editor ........................ Mark Korchack Copy Editor .........................Jeff Harrington 
8 & T Layout............... Ken Cerabonehead Editorials Layout ....................... Tim Nedy Sports Copy Editor .............. Mike Riccardi Typists .............................. Suzanne LaBunny Mary Beth Poner "Merry" Tari Brown Ad Design ............................. Mariiyn Larkin Photographer ....................... Rachel Blount Guest Appearances ................................. L.Z. Many paper typers 
Nimble, tbrougb tbe gates ofdaw11 
Sbe comes, to dance on emerald lawn 
And sing ofstars and distant shores Far faerlela11ds and mtnotaurs. 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col­
lege Subscnpt1ons may be pure hased for $25 per year (St5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Bux Q Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 


The Observer Thursday, December 2, 1982 -page 3 
Opens ALfestival 
Actress tells oflife -with 0 'Casey 
By CHUCK KRILL 
StaffReporter 

Eileen O'Casey entertained and 
humored a gathering at the Ar­
chitecture -Auditorium last night 
with an account oflife with her Irish 
playwright husband in the first 
lecture ofthe Sean O'Casey Festival. 
Her presentation "Sean and Myself' marked the beginning ofthe festival sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters that will continue through Saturday. 
She described many memorable events of her life, from the moment she first read O'Casey'sjuno and the Paycock to his death in 1964 at the age of84. 
Of her first exposure to O'Casey's work she remembers, "It filled me with excitement and emotion. I thought, 'I must somehow meet the man who wrote this play, but how?'" 
After eventually being introduced to the playwright, Mrs. O'Casey, a young actress at the time, was asked to fill in for the lead in another O'Casey play, The Plough and the Stars. Though she thought it a "preposterous" idea that she take the part, her future husband con­vinced her to accept. "I can only, think, looking back, that I was hyp­notized and mesmerized into saying yes," she said. 
Madrigal dinners begin tonight at SMC 
Madrigal Christmas Dinners, a 
traditional event at Saint Mary's, will 
be presented daily today through 
Sunday. 

The dinners, sponsored by the 
music department, are a re­
enactment of the traditional Renais­
sance Christmas celebration. The 
Chamber Singers and Collegium 
Musicum, dressed in 16th century 
costumes, will treat the diners to 
traditional Christmas and Renais­
sance music. The program features 
singing. dancing and feasting. 
The four dinners will be held in 
the North Lounge of Regina Hall at 
Saint Mary's. Seating will begin at 
6:30 p.m., and the dinner will be served at 7 p.m. Tickets are SI2 per person and may be obtained at the Saint Mary's ticket office or by mail. Seating is limited, and tickets must be purchased in advance. The public is invited. 
After their marriage in 1927 and disappointment over the subse­quent rejection of another O'Casey play by W. B. Yeats and the Abbey Theater in Dublin, Mrs. O'Casey went back to acting while her hus­band continued to write. "This was the best of both worlds," she said, "home all day with Sean and Breon (their first child), off to the theater in the evening. It was a very good time in our lives." 
When her husband's health wor­sened, she left the stage to care for him. Wanting to move to a house near a school for their children, O'Casey told of needing a reference to convince a landlord to rent them a house. 
Her husband wrote to George Bernard Shaw, a close friend, who responded that the landlord "proposed a lease in which I was not only to guarantee your rent but also your character, and I said I didn't know his character. I knew enough of yours to know that the conse­quences might include anything, even a war!" 

After enduring World War II and despite his failing eyesight, O'Casey completed Cock-a-Doodle Dandy, which his wife says was "his favorite play and is mine. He had achieved what he wanted. This play had inter­woven into it music, song and dance." It will be performed as part of the Sean O'Casey Festival by stu­dents at 8:00 P.M. in the Little Theater at Saint Mary's on Thursday and Friday. 
Before his death, NBC filmed "A 

Conversation with Sean O'Casey," 
which was shown following the 
lecture in the Architecture 
Auditorium. 
The final Festival event will be the presentation of juno and the Paycock on Saturd~y at 8:30P.M. in Saint Mary's Little Theater sponsored by the Theater Guild of the Council ofIrish Arts ofChicago. 
"Papa & Mama Do The Cooking" 

Francesco's Famiglia '-· 277-6155 ' Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 

The Original Southern Recipe Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti, . . . Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana All Vanettes of SandWiches 
(Francesco was chejfor Holy Cross Fathersjor 21 yrs.) 
1636 N. Ironwood t-------·'WE DELIVER"--------1 
"----Proprietor: Francesco Catanzariti___~ 
• • • a

c
• 
JuttLotrgf! 

~oHelt~ nott J\Aoltltill 9.utttooms_fptt CJ'ebttualt~ f8-20 Juniolt cpa/tents' C\VeeL?end wiQQ be on t:fhti~lg., CDec. 2 in ~aCJ'otttutte u\ia00. 
7:00om 


rl! II II!U~S-ili!IF~~~~---BI!O-®ll.rGill 
I Tonight IS ~ 




I Ladies' Night
at 

i\rtio's 1Jrislt Jlub 
Large Screen TV for Basketball 
and Football Viewing$3Pitchers AllNight 
Tonight after 9pm 

• 2 for 1 Mixed Drinks * 
• 75' Domestic Beer (cans) • 1Eutrttbnb 
*Artio's 
•K tl · 
l~ .._-----NO 
Cleveland Rd. 
llltlcnmt 
IU 
.... 
CJ 



Readers: 
Does =-Ihe-~Obsener present The Fighting Irish Fairly? 
We Want to Hear 
From YOU! 
COME TO THE GENERAL READERSHIP FORUM MONDAY, DEC. 6at6:30pm in the LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
LET US KNOW IF WE ARE 

"SERVING AND THE NOTRE DAME 
SAINT MARY'S COMMUNITY." 
COMPLAINTS QUESTIONS & 
COMPLIMENTS WELCOME. 


• ~ ltlJOUrwag.,.,.orelM! ...t1.! 011 .·n,.,.__; 
-~~~-'~-· ,­
.c~1 ..:J \. -~ lto·al/ ~e: \&~~"'! l 
'N~\ ~rflllfi~ '" _-­

~/ '-----.:. \'--\ \H~ls~•r.,s 
'bold flg 10 ~er:.\c ­
\.~~~·-I__-·--\ I I --.-I ­
,,., Gr~ ',R.,.d l!_l"'z•L· \"' i ----! \til• ~"'-pP.fjJ;r~g \$\6~ I For ;~·-1__c_ , . ~--'0 \tri • 1
I \ 00'-L--·-•
I
--M 

~. \ 'ff{f:_ --­
No appointment I Open 7 days daily9-8 Sat.9-6Sun11-5 
Grape Road Plaza Grape and Day Roads 

@REDI<EN 
277-7946 Hair must be shampooed day of cut 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer i~ only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4 -7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
:171 
}

~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 


----~---------------­
--~---~~~-------------­
Thursday, December 2, 1982 -page 4 

Reagan tour · 
Support pledged to ,Brazil 
BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) -Presi­dent Reagan, armed with a decision to ease the impact of U.S. sugar quotas on the ailing Brazilian economy, plunged into sensitive talks yesterday with Brazil's chiefex­ecutive and emerged pledging renewed U.S. support. 
"We have come to some agree­ments about future cooperation," Reagan told reporters after a 90­minute conference with Brazilian President Joao Baptista Figueiredo a,t the Palacio do Planalto, Brazil's presidential palace. 
Reagan, who arrived here Tues­day night at the start ofa four-nation Latin American tour to promote democracy and strengthen rela­


_._._._,_...__._._._.._.._._._.,__,._._.._..._.__.._.1 the foreign forces out of Lebanon," 
1 
Th p k rd 
Reagan said, referring to the Israeli, 
~ e r ov OSt speo s a ~ Palestinian, and Syrian forces that ~ a~wers quest•lo~ onthe ~ remaininthestrife-torncountry.
J ~ ~ J On his first official trip to South
1 1 t America, Reagan spent the day
h 

~ pACE report in t _ engaged in conferences that were
e ~ 

J _ J clost~d to the press and public. 
~Grace Hall pitonThursdayi~ --:===== ~ Dec. 2at lO:OOpm ~ ~ ALL WELCOME! ! ! ~.Mexican press 

;r:=--~~==== ========-II 
I·. Levi's Basic 11 Denims, Cords 1/ Reg. $18 · •• ! 1/






~== =-----y---=-===+!
~ --"'-< >---4-.i
1 
\ Denims in straight, super straight 1/ \ \ or boot leg. Straight or boot leg / / \ \ :, cords in many r;olors. /I 
\·L ~ ~ /--0/
Varsity Shop. 
:::::---.....----.:__ /~ ~--.._ /~ 
L.,...,....,.....,....,........................~..,....,.. ...............~....,.....,....,..~~...,..........,..~...r. 

20% OFF 
Entire Stock of Junior Sportswear 
Save on everything from famous-maker sweaters, blouses, pants, coordinates, jeans, cheenos and active sportswear. Junior World. 
tions, said he looked forward to "working with Brazil ort their economic problems as well as our own." He did not elaborate. 
However, as the two leaders were meeting, Reagan's press office an­nounced he had signed a proclama­tion waiving U.S. quotas for sugar used to produce gasohol and alcohol for industrial purposes. 
Although Reagan administration officials had warned in advance that this would not be a trip in which there would be U.S. handouts .at every stop, the gesture was seen as symbolic of the administration's ef­forts to ease the trade protectionism Figueiredo has decried. 
As the world's largest sugar 

~,~h Ayres Scottsdale Mall andUniversity Park 
.__________________ 
producer, Brazil complained that the quotas Reagan imposed last May to protect the U.S. sugar market would cost up to 5400 million in ex­ports this year. This is just a fraction of Brazil's total annual exports of 522 billion, but the issue typifies the South American nation's complaints about U.S. restraints on its trade. 
Re:agan also told reporters he is considering a request from the Beirut government to increase the number of U.S. peacekeeping troops in Lelbanon and also may seek other nations' participation in the multina­tional force. 
"We will be talking to friends and allies about that ...because we want to do whatever we can to help get 
vows to end corruption 
MEXICO CITY (AP)-Vowing not to "allow our homeland to crumble through our fingers," Miguel De La Madrid became president of Mexico yest,erday and announced a I0-point program to combat a deepening recession and widespread official corruption. 
"Mexico is undergoing a grave crisis," De La Madrid said in an hour­long inaugural speech. "This is an 
emergency ...the  situation  is  in­ 
tolerable."  
De  La  Madrid  ,  a  47  year-old  

economist, took the ceremonial red. white, and green sash of office from outgoing President Jose Lopez Por­tillo during a ceremony at the newly built House of Representatives. 
Promising to set a personal ex­ample, he told his 70 million countrymen that "the moral regeneration of society will be a commitment and a permanent stan­dard of conduct for my administra­tion. "We shall clean up and modernize the police departments of the federal government," he said. "The police should be a guarantee of public safety and order, not a cause oftheir breakdown." 
De La Madrid said he will root out and punish the corrupt officials widely seen as the hidden cause be­hind Mexico's worst recession ofthe century. 
Absorbed by his nation's economic problems, including the largest foreign debt in the third world, De La Madrid gave little at­tention to foreign policy in his speech. 
However, he repeated Lopez Por­tillo's vow "to meet others on an equal footing" and to work "for a just and peaceful solution y> tensions in Central America." 
Warning that the next two years would be tough, but promising that the burden ofausterity would borne by everyone, De La Madrid an­nounced a 10-point "immediate program for ·the reordering of the economy." 
lhe program calls for sharp government spending cuts, job guarantees and continuation of public works already under way. His program also includes tax increases, food programs, new standards in public housing, keeping the banks under the national control imposed by his predecessor, adjusting ex­change control mechanisms to market conditions, and restructur­ing the federal administration. 
400th anni versarv 
Thursday, December 2, 1982 -page 5
fhe Observer 
*'"'··Norbertlne
I Fathers & Brothers% 
eyes  on  her  goal.  Jesus  Christ,  
throughout her life.  
Javier  Herrero,  W.R.  Kenan  

We offer the opportunity for Teaching 
and Pastoral Ministry with life In community. 
We are men seeking God through 
t shared life t shared prayer t shared ministry 
Thi§ hi our ehallenge: 
For more Information write to: R~·. Gene C:rries. O.Praem. Vocation Director St. Norbert Abbey De Pere, Wisconsin 54115 
:'-:arne .\rlrlres.o; 
Cit)' State Ztp 
A~c Complctcrllltgh SchcKll Collc~e 

Lecturers honor Saint Teresa 
By AMY STEPHAN 
Yews Staff 
Saints aFe sometimes envtsioned as isolated and concerned only with the spiritual world. But Saint Teresa de Avila was very much concerned with and intluenced by both the so­cial conditions and literature of her 
Scramble 
begins for nomination 
WASHINGON (AP) -With Ed­ward M. Kennedy a dropout from the 1984 campaign" former Vice President Walter F. Mondalc and Ohio Sen. John Glenn led the scramble yesterday to move to the front of the pack for the Democratic prestdential nomination. 
The speculation in the immediate aftermath of Kennedy's announce­ment gave Mondale the lead with or­ganized labor, while former astronaut Glenn was seen by many Democrats as having a broader­based appeal which could give them their best chance to defeat Ronald Reagan in two years. t However, the already crowded Democratic field was certain to attract still other contenders and being tagged the frontrunner 20 months before the nominating convention is an honor many politicians would just as soon 
times, according to Rev. Dennis R. 
(1ravis at a lecture last night at Saint 
\1ary's Carroll Hall in honor of the 
--100th anniversary of her death. 
Gravis, the Director of Programs at the Aylesford Carmelite Spiritual Center in Darien. Ill., speaking on "\1s. Teresa de Avila: The Ex­perience of the 20th Centurv through 16th Century Eyes," chal­lenged the audience to read Saint Teresa's works. 
"Don't read books about Saint Teresa, read her. In reading her, you will see your own experiences through her eyes," he said. 
Gravis explamed that 16th cen­tury Spain was much like 20th cen­tury America. He cited Spain's position as a world power, an infla­tion of more than 300 percent during Saint Teresa's lifetime, and a serious lack of jobs during this time as problems which are shared by today's society. 
Gravis stated that Saint Teresa felt that many problems in society stem from goals which are too small. Saint Teresa advised people to "fix their 
eves on their g~als," he said. Accord­ing to Gravis, Saint Teresa set her 
Professor at the University of Vir­ginia, centered on the int1uence of the popular romantic literature of 16th century Spain on Saint Teresa's writing, in his lecture later that eve­ning. 
According to Herrero, chivalry was very much admired in Saint Teresa's day. He outlined the life of Saint Ignatius of Loyola, who began life as a soldier and carried this spirit ofchivalry into his faith. 
Herrero said that Saint Teresa was similarly influenced by the romantic tales of chivalry. He cited examples in her writing in which she compared the soul to a castle with many rooms, and described her con­vent as a fortress. 
Herrero stated that Saint Teresa used the language of adventure, but through this language "a greater spirit is referred to and expressed" 
in her writings. 
: Clueless? Get involved with : 
i lil' Sibs Weekel'd i 
: April1 5, 16 & 17 1983 ..:~.~ ) : 
: Applications lor Committee Chairmen available f(~~ : + at Student Government Office 2nd floor La Fortune ,. ,~ ~ +
• ""'""!_~ ~ • 
• Due Thursday, December9 ""--~ : 
t••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


JOEL FEINBERG 
avoid. 
Professor of Philosophy University of Arizona 
Ask Kennedy what it was like being far ahead ofJimmy Carter in 
Eleventh Annual Civil Rights lectures 
19..,9. Ed Muskie had the 1972 
Does every MBA work 
Democratic nomination locked up 
Autonomy as Personal Sovereignty
on Wall Street? in 19'0 and George Romney was a 
cinch for the I 968 Republican 
December 2, 1982 4°0 pm
nommation in 1967. Manyof ours do. But many others go on 
Auditorium
For all the contenders, Kennedy's 
to manage programs for NASA, start their 
Center for Continuing Education
announcement scrambled the odds 
own busmesses, or run hospitals in NYC.
and set many trving to figure out You can hnd them in Singapore and Lon­how to lay claim to the support of don, m Los Angeles and Houston, in 
Privacy as Autonomy
the liberal wing of the Democratic 
.\1ontreal and Montevideo. If you want to Partv. 
take your MBA to Wall Street or some­
December 3, 1982 12°0 Noon 
where else, talk to us. nf Kennedy supporters will now be 
"I know that a signiticant number Call us on our toll-free number to find 
law School, Room 101 
~~:.ore abou~t
where you can go with an Cranston of California. Cranston 
ready to support me." said Sen. Alan 
1Cominennlll..... ) ~ jNew York Mau·)
ranks wtth Kennedy as an all-out 800/847-2082 ~ 800/252-6326 
sponsored by
advocate of a freeze on the nuclear 
arms race. 
CENTER FOR CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS 
·· lk's a very good friend of mine." 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL
said Sen. (;ary Hart of Colorado, 
Notre Dame Law School
OF BUSINESS & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
when asked for comment on the 
31<; .\\AlOTT HAll ITHACA. NY 14853 
Kennedy decision. Hart is trying to build his presidential candidacy on a claim to be one of the new liberals offering fresh ideas for dealing with the nauon's problems. 
Kennedy's hard-core liberal sup­porters are a tempting bloc to 



GOOD FREE DELIVERY
several of the Democratic conten­ders, hut they are approaching it warily, heaping praise on the Massa· chusetts senator without rushing to embrace his philosophy. 
"Courageous." "forceful," "wise" 

TimE TO CAmPUS 
and "statesmanlike," were the sort of words used to describe Kennedy. "I fully intend to seek and hope to 
;J r------------------~
I $1 off I 
with any12, 14, 0116 inch pizza
receive his advice in the corning months," said Mondale. 
The only contenders clear of the 

I 16 i-n. Pizza I 
purchase. 

dilemma of competing for the sup­port of the Kennedy wing were the 
I expires Dec. 15, 1982 I ffiinimum non-pizza otdet is SS.OO. 
rwo conservative candidates -Sen. Ernest Hollings of South Carolina 
L--·••••••••••••••••J 
and former Gov. Reubin Askew of 
Free Delivery limited to two
Florida. 
mile tadius including Notte Dame arad



PIZZA 
Suint rncuy'sSupport the 
232-1883
March of Dimes 
FORTHE BEST IN PIZZA,
BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION 

836 PORTAGE AVE 

SANDWICHES AND
WE ACCEPT ND & smc CHECKS 

COLD DRINKS 

4' 
_j 

Business & Technology_Thu_rsda_y,oe_cem_ber_z,I9_sz_pag-e6 

Research Update 
Amoco Foundationhas provided 592,425 in grants to the University of Notre Dame in 1982, up from S75,515 in 1981, according to an announcement by the foundation. The foundation, financially supported by Standard OiJ Company of Indiana, said this year's grants are: S50,000 for general use by the University; a S20,000 chemical engineering faculty grant; Sl7,425 for a doctoral fellowship in chemical engineering, and $5,000 for a geology program for minorities. In a separate category, Amoco Foundation doubles individual contributions of as much as S500 to accredited colleges and universities by employees and retirees ofStandard and its subsidiaries. In the first 10 months of I982, the foundation's Educational Matching Grants Program provided 56,955 to Notre Dame, excluding employee and retiree donations. -The Observer 

all Street Update 
The DowJones average of 3o industrial stocks, which soared 36.43 points Tuesday, fell8.19 points today to close at 1,031.09. The blue-chip average had been down more than 5 points at the end ofthe first hour, up more than 10 points after three hours and virtually unchanged as the final hour of trading began. Three stocks rose in price for every two that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 107.85 million shares, up from Tuesday's 93.47 million. -AP 
., 
l 
EHTRYFOR Operation Brainstorm 
nAME: ADDRESS: ______ BRIEF DESCRIPTIOn OF IDEA: 
WORDSYSTEMS 
Professional Typing and Word Processing Seruice 
* Academic/Research Manuscripts Student 
Discounts

* 
Term Papers -Theses -Dissertations 

* 
Publications-Articles/Books * Mass Mailings

* 
Resumes -Disc Storage * Spelling Corrections

* 
Personalized Multiple Original Letters *Membership Rosters/ Bulletins/ Newsletters 


14 Hour Phone-In Dictation Service 
FREE PICK-UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE AVAilABlE Phone: (219) 27.2-8355 
AS AN ARMY NURSE YOUR IDEAS COUNT! 
DISCOVER THE MANY OPPORTUNITIES 
THE ARMY OFFERS MEN AND WOMEN 
WITH BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN 
NURSING DEGREES. 
*WIDE RANGE OF PROFESSIONAL *NO BASIC TRAINING ... ONLY AN SPECIAL TIES IN ARMY HOSPITALS ORIENTATION COURSE TO 
WORLD WIDE. *OFFICER'SPAYANDBENEFITS.  FAMILIARIZE YOU WITH THE ARMY. *EXCELLENTOPPORTUNITYFOR  
EVERY ARMY NURSE IS A  PROFESSIONAL GROWTH,  
COMMISSIONED OFFICER.  ADVANCEMENT, AND TRAVEL.  

Be an Army Nurse Be All You Can Be. 
Call: Sergeant Dan Clawson 
(219) 872-8634Call Collect 
l 
L 
~ . ' .· ' . ' . ' 
Oil industry 







Domestic firms gain control 
By MnTON MOSCOWITZ 
Special to the Observer 
The pecking order in the oil in· dustry certainly seems to be chang­ing. On the ropes are the old leaders, the big international companies: Ex· xon, Mobil, Standard Oil of Califor­nia, Texaco, Gulf. Moving up to challenge them are the companies whose strength lies mainly in oil reserves found in the United States: Atlantic Richfield (ARCO), Standard Oil of Ohio (SOHIO), Standard Oil ofIndiana. 
A dozen years ago there was a 
clear line of demarcation between the international majors and the domestic pumpers. The internation· al companies were lifting oil out of the Middle East and Latin America at a ridiculously low cost, reaping enormous profits. When Arabs ed­ucated at the Harvard Business School woke up to what was happening, they moved quickly and forcefully to jack up prices and take control oftheir oil production. 
The world has never been the same since then, especially for the international oil giants, who are now treated by the oil-producing countries as agents. 

President Reagan, center, with Senate Majority leader Howard BakerJr., and House Republican leader RobertH. Michel talks with reporters in the press room at the White House Tuesday. Reagan said that they will not push for advancing the scheduled tax cut fromjuly tojanuary. 
lL'J••l•tl-ns_in.-'l_s_p_D_rt_S_II_D~P 
--Get your interhall basketball shirts, shorts and shoes at discount rates. 
234-8024--Bob =====283-1004 Keuin 
................................. 
: •:  .rti!P.!!.J:'Y...l.b.!l.~.9.!a.i.~.~.:.. . 1'123 South Bend Ave. -at the Butler's Pantry  •i  
(walking distance from campus)  +  
: Rotre Dame/Saint Mary's Student Special ! 12 exposure film $5.50  +!  

+double print of each negative includes processing : : wlstudent photo I.D. + 
: Rotre Dame/Saint Mary's Special $ : 
10 o/o Discount on all work .tone lun•l 
......................~~·¥¥· ••••• 
Teachers Needed!!!! Get Involved in ND-SMC 
Stlldent Union's 

Free University 
"an opportunity to share your interests" 

Sign pin the S.U. office (2nd Floor Lafortun,e) 

j\_,~:11;"~ 
J"!l-'lil\.' Jv,li"-j 
t:ru:~ 

Ne.vJ Wt..-.Jt. (r..r.."-'sc.) 
f'.o\U51C 

t 
Meanwhile, a gigantic oil field was 

found on the north slope of Alaska, 
and the main beneficiaries of this 
discovery were two companies with 
virtually no overseas sources: ARCO 
andSOHIO. 
You can see the dramatic changes 

in lthe business by following the trail 
of Fortune magazine's annual com­
pilation of the nation's top 500 in· 
dustrial companies. 
In 1970, ARCO placed in the 30th 

position with sales of $2.7 billion 
(and profits of 5205 million). 
SOHIO was lodged in 83rd place 
with sales of $1.3 billion (and profits 
of $69 million). · By 1975, ARCO had risen to 15th place in the standings with sales of 
57.5 billion (and profits of S350 m.ilion) while SOHIO had moved up slightly to 75 on the roster with sales of S2.4 billion (and profits of SI 26 million). 
In 1980, ARCO took over 11th place with sales of S23.7 billion (and profits of S1.65 billion), and SOHIO took a meteoric jump to the 23rd position with sales of n I billion (and profits of SI.8 billion). 
Last year ARCO moved up anoth­er notch to 1Oth place. SOHIO moved up two notches to 21st place. They easily qualify as two of the fas­test growing companies in the na­tion. 
Exxon, Mobil, Standard Oil or California, Texaco and Gulf rose to the ruling positions in petroleum on a rich tide of Middle East oil. Now that same tide is sweeping them un­der. ARCO, on the other hand, is striking out in another direction. In September, it became the first U.S. oill company to sign an agreement with the People's Republic of China to drill for oil in the South China Sea. It could be a significant oil field. And in proceeding, ARCO can examine the experience of its competitors in the Middle East as an object lesson in how not to do it. 
~Airline 


offers local 
•


servtce 
Ely PAM RICHARDSON 
SraffReporter 
A trip to O'Hare may no longer be necessary for Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students in order to catch a flight home beginning December 15. 
Piedmont Airlines recently an­nounced its plans to include daily lllonstop service from South Bend to major cities in the East and Sout­heast. 
Piedmont will have two direct lllonstop flights to Dayton, Miami, and Newark. Connections via Dayton will be offered to Boston, Dallas/Fort Worth, Orlando, Tampa, and Washington. 
Piedmont spokesm,;Jn. Jonathan Lynch, told The Observer that prices will be very competitive with other carriers in the Michiana area in or­der to attract local custof"l ·~s. including students. 
Lynch also feels that the new service to the East and Southeast will help the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community "very much." Up until now it was very difficult for students living on the East coast to arrange convenient flights home. 
Piedmont's expansion is mainly due to the fact that small and medium sized cities like South Bend have been struggling to maintain business. Piedmont is hoping its ex­panded services will mutually benefit the company and the Mic­hiana area. 
-~---~ 

Thursday, December 2, 1982-page 7



Editorials 
Toward a national drinking age of ll 
There has been much concern over the problem of intoxicated drivers lately. Several organizations, most notably Mothers Against Drunk Driving, or MADD, have formed in or­der to pressure state and federal legislatures to pass laws which would make life much 
Tim Neely 


tougher for anyone caught driving under the influence of alcohol. Limited progress has been made. Illinois, for example, now has one of the toughest drunken driver laws in the United States. And early this week, Ronald Reagan's Secretary of Transportation, Drew Lewis, stated publicly his support for several ideas which he believes would help reduce the incidence of traffic accidents involving drunken drivers. 
Why the "sudden" concern about the in­ebriated driver? For many years, drunken drivers have been one of the most potent kil· lers in America. Over 25,000 traffic deaths 
A janitor carrying his mop through Lafortune walks past, and after he is our of earshot, a young man laughs at him. "That guy starred in the movie One Flew Over the Cuck· oo's Nest," he says to his chuckling com­panion. 

David M. Schorp 
Chautauqua in Faith 

In this column, a growing life, faithfully lived, has been likened to an upward spiral that is hard to ascend. Understanding can be a great help with the positive direction of this spiral; a faith of reason brings an understand­ing of human actions and this understanding strengthens our faith. 
The root ofcompassionate understanding is the very basic and optimistic belief that the heart of each and every person is good; all people are equal in that we all have the capacity to love. A fond image calling this to mind is the poster of the adorable little black boy, wearing worn, too short overalls and an upturned, floppy hat, saying, "God Made Me and God Doesn't Make Junk." 
Individuals are blessed with different yearly are directly attributable to them. While they often kill themselves, many times they kill innocent victims who have not had any­thing to drink. 
In the past, it seemed as if the alcohol­related death was something that happened to "someone else" -until that someone hap· pened to be aclose friend, a loved one, a child, a parent. It was one such incident which led to the formation ofMADD and to agreater public awareness ofthe seriousness ofthe problem. 
Recently President Reagan formed a special commission to study the problem. Lewis, as Transportation Secretary, has revealed a couple ofthe proposals so far, and I think they are good. 
One of the best proposals is to create a na­
tional legal drinking age of 21. 

More than half of the states either never 
lowered their drinking age from its former 
level or have raised it back to 21 since the ear· 
ly 1970s. There are still a few states which al­
low 18-year-olds to drink legally. This 
situation obviously causes many problems for 
neighboring states which do not allow 
teenagers the privilege. 

Most of those states that lowered their drinking ages from 21 to 18 did so after the passage of the 26th Amendment to the Con­stitution, which gave 18-year-old citizens the right to vote. Using the logic "Ifan 18-year-old can drive, die for his country, support himself via full-time job, and now even vote for our leaders, then he should be able to purchase and consume alcohol legally," states like New Jersey, Michigan, New York, and Wisconsin gave 18-year-olds the "right" to drink. Few had the foresight at that time to see the ramifications ofthis action. 
In almost every state that lowered its drink­ing age, the death rate via traffic accidents rose, particularly among the 18-to-21 age group. Many of these fatalities were out-of­state drinkers from neighboring states which still had the "21" on their books. They had crossed the border for a night oflegal carous­ing and ended up legally dead. More "young adults" were arrested for driving while intox­icated, regardless of being involved in acci­dents or not. 
About five years ago, the trend of reducing 
the drinking age reversed itself Few states 


The power of understanding 
amounts of different talents and abilities. But is this to say that one person is "better" than another? Is one person more capable of love than another? A football player making use of his physical gifts (and appealing to the aes­thetic need of the spetator) is no less impor­tant than a doctor utilizing his great mental capability. 
What of an individual blessed with neither overwhelming physical nor intellectual talent? God's view of us must be normalized, "For to him what was given, that much more will be expected ofhim in return." (There is a question of responsibility involved.) What matters is how "faithfully" a man strives to make the most ofwhat he's given, toward the benefit of others. Isn't a janitor as earnest about and as committed to his job as the Pope? 
Realizing this creates, for one whom much has been given, a warm place in the heart for those whl? live a simpler faith. Compassion through this understanding keeps us humble. 
Outside the bookstore, two very pretty women are approached by a thin, short­haired fellow wearing striped pants, a checked shirt, and a calculator on his belt. "Hi girls!" be says, and passes on into the bookstore. The two tum to each giggling. 
"What a total nerd." "He probably needs some new batteriesfor his calculator." 
Isn't it an insecure tendency for groups who share gifts, be they money, status, athletic ability, good looks, knowledge, or whatever, to cling together anq attempt to build them· selves up by cutting others down who don't share their same feature? 
Understanding that another person's worth 
isn't based soley on the good I posess, gives 
me the security and strength necessary to af. 
firm the good in someone different. I can 
respect another man for what he is, instead of 
turning him off if he's not in my mold. Being 
able to see the good in someone dfferent, in­
stead of waiting until he passes and then 
laughing behind his back, is giving what may 
very well be an insecure "nerd" the affirma­
tion he needs. This security, this power of af. 
firmation opens me up so that I might 
construqively interact with and be compli­
mented by the ideas ofothers. 
At one sitting, a group of engineering majors huddled together in Fitzpatrick are criticizing the antics of two of their class­mates: "Dave thinks be's God's gift to this Earth. He blurts out criticism ofthe teacher's lecture without eve11 raising his band." 
Another adds: "That guy is just plain weird. And what about john? That guy walked away with my homework, and copied it, without even asking! I see him 
remain at 18; most have risen the legal age to 19, 20, or all the way back to 21. Michigan is one which, in 1978, first raised the a~e from 18 to 19, and one month late: increased it all the way back to its former level via a referen­dum. t, 
Those states which have restored the old 21-year-old drinking age have seen a cor­responding drop in the traffic accident death rate -as an extreme example, in Maine, had a more than 40 percent reduction. Raising the drinking age back to 21 has proven to be more successful than many of its proponents im­agined as a reducer in the nation's death toll from drunken drivers. 
Obviously, the under-21 drinker is not sole­ly responsible for the alarming number of alcohol-related deaths; those of legal age are just as capable ofcausing havoc. But the drink­ing driver from the ages of 16 to 20 has become a major factor in the alcoho1-related death rate. Those states which have eliminated the legality of younger drinking ages have taken a step in the right direction. Now it is time for the rest -or perhaps the federal government -to follow suit. 
cheating on every test, too." 
Sometimes it is in the best interest ofanoth· er, that he be "clued in" to other people's per­cepton of him. But is criticizing someone behind his back the best way to do it? (Is it other -centered?) "But be makes me so angry!" 
How frequently does anger have a positive 
effect? A compassionate, affirming view of 
humanity would have it that men are bad only 
because they don't know good -a man's 
background and upbringing will have much to 
do with the way he perceives happiness. This 
view would even contend that any, and every 
man, given the proper loving upbringing, will 
turn out a wonderful human being. In the 
words ofSt. Augustine, "one must know love 
to love in return." In this light, can't self ­
centered mannerisms and actions be inter­
preted as a search for security in the wrong 
direction, by one who doesn't realize any 
other way? 

How often anger is the result ofincomplete 
understanding. Might one who posesses this 
power, then, almost never become angry at 
his fellow man? This understanding is the basis 
of unconditional love -of love in the face of 
hate or anger or arrogance or ignorance. 
For those heroes among us possessing excep­
tionally compassionate, affirming, uncon­
ditonally loving hearts, it is a responsibility. 
El Salvador's' progress' two years later 
Today marks the second anniversary of the assassination of four women in El Salvador. Given that a civil war has been in progress for the last three years, these deaths might pass as unremarkable -inevitable casualties of a situation that thus far has claimed over 30,000 
Paulita Pike 
Guest Columnist 

lives. But the characteristics that accompany their deaths do not allow the case to be writ· ten off as "unremarkable." 
In the first place, these women were U.S. citizens, a fact which in itself draws attention to the act, especially when the events surrounding the de·aths are less clear. 
Second. two of the victims belonged to the 'VIaryknoll Order, one to the Ursuline Order and one was a lay worker; it was through religious institutions that all were involved in social work at the side ofsome ofEI Salvador's poorest people. 
Third, before being killed, the women were sexually abused; in other words, assassination per se was not enough. Sick "machismo" dictated this final humiliating element so the act could be considered duly consumated. 
And finally, though in truth there is no final conceptualization in such a tragedy, the case ofIta, Maura, Jean and Dorothy drags on, serv­ing to remind us ofthe unfinished war and un­told suffering that also drags on in El Salvador. 
If on a moral level the case can never be resolved, the legal dimension entails no such philosophical dilemmas, yet after two years the crime has yet to reach a judicial resolu­tion. By U.S. standards, more than sufficient evidence has been gathered to try the five Na­tional Guardsmen accused ofthe murders, but El Salvador's standards -particularly when it comes to the military -are measured in terms of loyalties: nowhere is this more evi­dent than in the present situation, where at the same time there also exists a great fear among the Armed Forces that close question­ing during the trial will reveal cover-ups by some of the higher-ups in the military. 
Just as interesting to observe is the be­haviour exhibited by the U.S. Administration regarding the assassinations. Initially, indigna­tion was appropriately aroused; this however, soon turned to rhetoric when Alexander Haig commented that the women might have been trying to run a roadblock. This outrageous suggestion greatly undermined what credibility the administration had regarding its role in El Salvador and was subsequently dropped in face of the public outcry which followed. 
So now, two years later, attention is again focused on the deaths: we remember because it is Dec. 2, but we are reminded by the news which reports "progress" in the case and ad· ministration satisfaction in the same. 
We might wonder-as an a€t ofcommeni­moration to these women -why at this precise date "progress" (?) in their case is being hyped to the press; could there be any connection to the bi-yearly certification Congress must make (Next one: Jan. 30) that "progress" in El Salvador's human right~ record indeed merits the continued militaf) support of the United States to El Salvador? 
Based on the three past certificatiom Congress has made, this unfortunately seems to fit the pattern. 
For whatever worth these women's lives represent to us, it does not strike me as asking too much that we reflect on what Maura and Jean and Dorothy, and Ita might have told us -if they were still around -regarding the real story about progress and human rights in El Salvador. 
-----I~~·h---e -0'~~~~~or_ Editorial Board Department Manager:s
--·----. -·---~~----·~.., ­
'ff,,· ()!J,,.,.,., ~~ an inJepenJen: new'J'.ll'l'r puhll,lll'd b)· rhe >tudents of the Editor-in-Cbief .............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello l 'nl\ n'1ty of Notre D.tme du I..t, .tnJ S.1int M.uy\ C.olk,cc. It does r.ot nlu·s,Jnly Managing Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz rdk\t the rolllll'\ of the adnllrmtrJIIOit of eitlwr lllStituiiOil. The n~'V.·s ,, report Executive News Editor .............. David Dziedzic Advertising Manager ....................... Chris Owen t-<1 ~' .ltlUrJtely and H ohJL\tl\cly J\ poo;Sthle. f:d1t0nJis reprc-;ent the op1~ion of SMC Executive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager .................. Maura Murphy .1 mJrorcty of the LJctori..d Board. Co.nment.tm·'· opinions a.n,l letters .He the news .~ports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circutaiion Manager .................... Mark Miotto of tht·1r author\. ( olumn.spJ,e "J\'Jd,tbk to all cnemher' of the •Ommunll)'. anJ Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley tilt f rce expre,s1on of varymg opmwns on ~ampu), through letter), l> en~ounged. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown Photo Etlitc1r ..................................Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966
P.O.Hox Q, Notre Dame, IN -.hSSh (lll)) 2.\9-';.\lH 


~j)()~tS:l:~:~:=t=·~;£=S========~======================Th=u=r=sd=~='=D=e=ce=m=b=e=r=2,=1=9=82===p=a=ge==8 
s,~ The UfJsen·er and Tbe :lssociatetl Press 
Greg Blache. Notre Dame's defensive line coach and ar­chitect of the 1982 "Gold Rush," has been prominently mt:ntioned as a possible successor to firt:d Tulane head coach Vince Gibson. Blache. a native of New Orleans, La.. would bt:come one of tht: ft:w black head coaches in major-college football. The speculation comes just days after CBS airt:d a controversial news report decrying the dearth of ht:ad coaching jobs given to blacks. -The Observer 
Mike Rouse's f"trst win as Saint Mary's ha~ketball 
coach came last night with a '71-61 victorv over Huntington College. Point guard Elaine Suess led the SMC scoring column with 24, including her 15th of 16 free throws made this season. "We're not a deep team, and having Elaine as a scorer and quarterback is very valuable," said Rouse. whose team is 1-2 heading into a weekt:nd tournament at Goshen. Missy Van Ort and Mary McQuillan added I I aptece for the Belles. -Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame boxersannounce a meeting set for this afternoon at 4 in the boxing room of tht: ACC. This meeting concerns anyone interested in participating in the 1983 Bt:ngal Bouts. -The Observer 
The Gymnastics Club has changed its 
practice times to Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at the Angela Athletic Facility ;md Tuesdays and Thursdays at The Rock. All practices will be held between -t and 6 in the aftt:rnoon. -The Observer 
.. 
~~---~ -~--~--~~ 

HOCKEY 

In this year's NHLplayoff lormat. the top lour teams in each division make rhe playoffs, regardless of overall league standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division 
W  L  T  GF  GA Pts.  
Montreal  16  6  122 83  38  
Boston  13  7  5  91  71  31  
Buffalo  12  8  5  109 85  29  
Quebec  t2  10  2  t16  112 26  
Hartford  15  3  73  113 13  
Patrick Division  
N Y Islanders  15  9  5  108 89  35  
f'h1ladelph1a  14  9  3  104 84  3t  
NY Rangers  13  11  1  105 98  27  
Washington  8  9  6  81  87  22  
Plltsburgh  8  13  4  86  128 20  
New Jersey  4  16  7  72  113 15  

CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvlsion 
W L T GF GA Pts Edmonton 11 10 6 126 117 28 Los Angeles 12 9 3 88 84 27 Vancouver 9 11 6 94 90 24 Calgary 9 14 5 t 10 113 23 W1nn1peg 10 10 2 103 98 22 
Norris Division Ch1cago 17 3 5 109 78 39 Minnesota 15 4 117 98 34 St LOUIS 9 14 3 89 99 2t Toronto 4 13 5 74 100 13 Detro1t 3 17 6 67 1t7 12 
Yesterday's Results N Y Rangers 6, Hartford 1 New Jersey 7. Toronto 3 M1nnesota 4, Oetrott 1 Chicago 4. Pittsburgh 2 Montreal2. Buffalo 2 (t1e) Ph1ladelph1a 4, Edmonton 2 Los Angeles 4, Calgary 1 
Tonight's Schedule Quebec at Boston Pittsburgh at Wash1ng1on Minnesota at St. Lows 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Frtday. 10 a~m to 4 30 p.m However. classtfieds to appear tn the next tssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess dav prtor to tnsertton All classJfteds must be prepa1d. etther tn person or through the mat! 


Classifieds 
LOST: A small stenng s1lver rosary; 1f 
NEED A FEMALE ROOMMATE, Cute CASSETTES!! TDK·SA9011 $2 70/each NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO O'HARE See you 1n Lextngton next year, Joe found call Julie at x283-6803. Has a grea1 
Loft Apt , Good Location. 95.00/MONTH NO LIMIT'! Makes great Chnstmas FRIDAY-THE3rd you ve got the guts NOTICES Ulls Included. Call 234~0824 present!! CALL 289· 7640 ABLE TO LEAVE AT 2:30. 
deal of sentimental value 
GUMBY ~~NO POKEY LIVEtl GUMBY 50$ Reward For Lost SMC Class Rtng 
WILL SHARE USUAL. 

AND POKEY LIVEII GUMBY AND Please Call 5524 
CALLJOEAT-1067 
POKEYLIVEII 

TYPING AVAILABLE FOUND~Set of Keys, room 324. at SMC ON GOLDEN POND To the W'ecktng Cre"' We have the red 
287-4082 .____w_AN_T_ED_ ___.jl.____TIC_K_E_TS----J
If yours call Glenn at 3248 and 1dent1fy 
Winner of 3 Academy Awards rub1es If our demands are not met you wtll key cham 
Dec 3 & 4 at 7,9& 11 never see them agam Chrysanthemum NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR Leprechaun: Touch the net at halfttme ofMONEY FOR SCHOOL!! We guarantee LOST a blue pla1d scarf. last Tuesday at 
KENTUCKY GAME ASK FOR JOHN the UCLA qame Kurt Shave SqUirt Wear to ftnd scnolarsh1ps. grants. a1d wh1ch Corby s, Reward 1f found call Lou1s 
1768. MIDNIGHT EXPRESS Nov 30, Dec 2 F·Cat s clOthes to class Fn F~Cal Wear you re ehg1ble to rece1ve. Application x4602 SqUirts clothes Fn·at least 3 sh1rts7:00. 9:t5. 11 :30PM. Sponsored by thematenals -$1 00 F1nanc1al Atd Fmder. 
REALLY NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL 
I NEED 1 UCLA STUD TCKT WILL ND Rugby Club Gro1ean Have Flytng T1ger s 1et do a VIC­
Box t053·CD. Fa1rt1eld. Iowa 52556 RED UMBRELLA Lost, on Monday, NEW YORK (ALBANY, UTICA. 
GIVE $ AND/OR 2ND SEMESTER tory roll over NO at noon Fn 0: Ws lost November 29. between 12 15 and SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK--·WILL 
TCKT PACKAGE FOR IT CALL DAN AT PHILADELPHIA CLUB yours Sorry G~Moke Don t go to the bars 
Gmat revtew classes for Jan 29th exam 1 OOp m. m room 300 Cush1ng. It was 1744! Thurs ntght Pelhgnno Crank up theSHARE USUAL ·-~CALL CHRIS AT 8573 1. XMAS BUS sign-ups and ELEC­beg1n Dec 4th Call Stanley Kaplan 
ly1ng on the book rack underneath lhe OR 3510ANYTIME TIONS Sunday, 12/5 at 6'30 in Lafortuno• hghtwe1ghos c1ub You·ll be hearrng from 
Educational Center for 1nfo --232~2366 or seat--three rows from the back of the UCLA,IU GA us
NEED TICKETS.PETE Little Theatre Interested candidates call272·4135 room If you have any 1nfo that could lead RIDE NEEDED TO NYC FOR XMAS 
232-1466 Chuck 288-0725 
me to the whereabouts of thiS. please BREAK·WILL SHARE USUAL-·CALL Dan Typtng wanted, accurate, contact Leanne at 8983 or 77531 Please CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME 
fast. ex· FOR SALE. 1 UCLA Student tkt CALL Need Rtde to or near Wilm De for Xmas SMILE'perrenced, reasonable and close Call call. or we II have one very wet sophO· 

8824 Please call Mary 284·5443 Mona 
272~4105 

more on our hands!(lt s my only umbrella NEOED 2 PEOPLE TO SHARE N.D APT here!!) Your attention regaromg th1s mat· NEXT SEM 100 A MONTH CALL MIKE 
THE WHO LIVE I GREAT SEATS for sale AllantatStudents Interested u1 hlepmg on commit· ter 1s h1ghly appreciated• Thank· you 1 37fi.JOHN 8858 
now Ch1 Dec 8 call287~9342 or 272·932t Atlanta! LISA SIROKY tees tor !;tudent conference 1n March en­
between 1 1 am-9pm dtlanta? Happy 22nd Birthdaytitled ··Just1ce 1n the Nuclear Future?· are One exceptionally stupid and wanted: I need one nde there and back agam for Have a great onet
tnv1ted to an organtzational meettng chagrined editor of this rag has lost his ... o.k. this is weird... I could use a ride to FOR SALE: ONE UCLA STUDENT TICK~ Chnstmas break Can you g1ve me a nde? Love. 
Thursday December 2 dt 6·30 PM .'n Boston FROM Atlanta AFTER Dec. 25
graphic arts portfolio; ~ Is of no value LOWER WILL Laura
ET ARENA SELL TO Please call Jeb at 8630 Thank youRocm 123 of N1euwland Sctence Hall 
to anybody but me, because only f and then either back to Atlanta oron back 
BEST OFFER CALL TIM 6988 could possibly justify this crud to to school. Jeb 8630. 
Need Round 1rrp A1de To ConnecticutDANCE Friday
LOGAN CENTER on anybody as art. Nonetheless, it does DESPERATEII I need INDIANA basket­For Chrrstmas Break W1ll Share Usual IT'S GOOD TO BE HOME 
nigh1, Dec. 3. Live musoc111 Lots of fun Need A•de To ConnectiCUt For Chnslmas 
represent a summer's worth o1 pro1es~ ball t•ckets' Please help by calling X4420 Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime.
for VOLUNTEERS Ill PLEASE attend it sional graphics work, and I would ap­Break Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime 
Angatoo goza1masu (thank you') READERS! 
you can! Thanks. 

preciate ~ if anybody with a clue to Its 
READERS OBSERVER whereabouts would call Joe at the Ob­NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR XMAS 
FOR SALE. UCLA STU TIC CALL 6865 READERS GENERAL CHICAGO--I NEED A RIDE TO server or at 283-3119. call EILEEN at71 78 
OR6848 READERS! "'EADERSHIPCHICAGO SAT. MORNING-DEC 4 WILL 
For.;uMSHARE PLEASE CALL LISA 7892. Green Flight Jacket lost/stolen '" K of C WASHINGTON DC AREA Need a nde on 
DESPERATE!! I need INDIANA basket~ Come -r jj .ell IJ:) -A·hat you tl"ltnk of ~'le n1ght at December 22 Call Kathleen at 233·4598 
THE OBSERVER IS conduct.ng a
on fr~day The Californ1a Party ball t1ckets! Please help by calling X4420 paper Complalf'lt&, f.uqUe!=•;ons compu·Profess1onal typ1ng p1ck and Please call affer 5·00 Reward 289~8651. for general reddersntp
Free up meettng 1ts en 
Angatoo goza1masu (thank you I) Tl£>nts. ·~vesw·.ps NP.'C;orne ND ana ~MC 
delivery Delivery w1th1n 24 hours $ 80 ask for Dan. Need RIDERS from Southern Callforma Monday. Dec 6 at 6·30 p m. ,n tr.e 
-:..tudent~. racully. anu adrnlntmstrators per page. 282·1 805 affer Chnstmas vac Call Bob at x1681 
Memonal Ltbrary Audltonum Do you
FOR SALE. UCLA STU TIC CALL 6865 wetcornt: The pubitc welcome Thank
have something lo say about THE Oil­LOST: T~55 CALCULATOR on the 2nd 
OR684B '{OU. You're welcome. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO SERVER? Come and tell us Students,
floor of the library Sunday, Nov. 28, MAJOR PROBLEM Need ride to Detroit TYPING REASONABLE RATES CALL: with case. My name Is etched on the over XMAS on Dec~ 21 PLEASE call Pia faculty. administrators. and the public are 
l 
ConfuSIOn IS only a state ot
1nvtted Be there

287-5162 bsck. REWARD. Call MIKE at 3571. at4351 
mmd . . (That m Itself is confusmg) .

PERSONALS
There are sill/ 20 seats available on the LOST: T~55 CALCULATOR on the 2nd NEED RIDE TO MAINE X-MAS BREAK The Independent student newspap4>r And yet somehow. hte goes on Barely
LONG ISLAND CLUB CHRISTMAS serving Notre Dame and Sai11t
floor of the library Sunday, Nov. 28, WILL SHARE USUAL 288-3616 after 7 
PLANE leavmg on the 22nd. Bring Mary's. THE OBSERVER IS your checks for $156 to 320 Stanlord NOTRE DAME'S AND SAINT MARY'S newspaper How can THE OBSERVER with ease. My name Is etched on the P~m. 
bsck. REWARD. Call MIKE at 3571. 
THE WHO Dec 17 LIVE TELECAST· PLEASE HELP! need ride to DC for 
FAVORITE MORNING SHOW better serve the Notre Dame/Saont 
$4 00 CHICAGO-I NEED A RIDE TO Xmass-affer 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 RETUFINSII LISTEN TO THE ALL RE­Marys commumty? Do you have CHICAGO SAT. MORNING-DEC 4 WILL QUEST MID-MORNING BREAK opmtons, complatnts, suggestions for tt"te IT'S ALL JUST A DREAM ANYWAVS 
SHARE PLEASE CALL LISA 7892. MAJOR PROBLEM Need nde to DetrOit FRIDAY FROM lOAM TO 11AM ON paper? Come to our very f1rst GENERAL over XMAS on Dec~ 21 PLEASE call P1a 
WSNDAM6411 READERSHIP MEETING Monday. Dec r 
ERI TN-Shes aggravating. funny. self1sh. 

Profess1onal typ1ng. Free p1ck up and 6 at 6:30 m the L1brary Aud1tonum Stu~
at4351 canng, pushy. teastng Shes my parents

delivery Delivery w1thm 24 hours $ 80 IIWSND REMOTES II dents. faculty. and adm1n1strators of Notre favonte Child. my worst enemy, my best
FOR RENT
per page 282-1 805 NEED RIDE TO MAINE X~MAS BREAK liTHE BEST MUSIC II Dame and Sa~nt Mary s are encouragod 
tnend and my only cont1dante Shes my WILL SHARE USUAL 288~36t6 affer 7 
liTHE BEST EQUIPMENTif lo attend 
SISter pm
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO liTHE BEST PRICE II TYPING REASONABLE RATES CALL IICALL 239-742511 SENIOR SKI TRIPII $15 Deposit due IT'S COMING-IT'S COMING Itt
287-5162 Student Hous1ng . Clean Sate PLEASE HELP! need nde to DC lor IIFOR DETAILS II Dec. 1 or 2, 6:30-7:30, 1st FIO<>r THE INCREDIBLE FLANNER 7B
$100/mo 291-1405 Lafortune. Don't miss ltfl
Xmass~after 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 
DO IT AGAIUttWATCH FOR There are still 20 seats available on the ••v•••·•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
DETAILS ttl LONG ISLAND CLUB CHRISTMAS 2~BED SIMBA RIDERS needed to Flonda (I~ 75 to Fla PLANE leavmg on the 22nd. Bring Apt.heat a1r THE ONE~EYED turnpike lo Lauderdale) at X·mas. Would checks lor $156 to 320 Stanford~ pa yed, appliances. hardwood Z T IPPER SNAKE l1ke to leave 12/20 but would leave 12121 HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY! 

FOR SALE
floors.$250 mo 123 s~ Eddy 233-6441 20FEETOF 1f necessary SUE·6736 Love. 
SWAYING DEATH 
She Room for rent for female grad or law stu· SENIORS!SENIORS! EnJOY a bit of dent tn ND Ave Apts $180 plus electnc Chnstmas sp1r1t B·t 1 PM December 9

USED BOOKS Bought, Sold. Searched Call Madeleine at 287-4644 affer 1 1 ERASMUS BOOKS~ Tues-Sun, 12-6 Pertormers: Be 1n the nght place at the Senm Class Chnstmas Party al Tip·
LOST/FOUND \. 

DEAR EILEEN HAPPY 18TH 1027 E Wayne. One Block South of BIRTHDAY'
nght time! Students w~n. cash, scholar· pecanoe Sem1·formal antre Hers Clean. well ~ept 3&4 bedroom homes, ap­Eddy~Jefferson lntersec!lon sh1ps, an overseas tour, aud1t1ons by d oeuvres & happy hour pnces Ltcruted LOVE,LOST: ONE GOLD MEN'S CHAIN pliances furnished. gas heat, garages ma1or compan1es. much morel Enter tickets on sale next week 
M L , SAMURAI & YEANNIE Might have been lost in the ACC on Mon­225.00 ~ 275.00 288-6721 

77 VW Rabbit XCLNT cond1ton.Owner ACTS! Box 3ACT. NMSU, Las Cruces, day 11/15 Please call Davtd at x6931 financed.Call277 6726 NM 88003, (505) 646~44 13. BEWARE SKAWSKII 4 room s1ngle. appliances & major utilities CAUTION: Be Nlmg wtth Bumper could be 
JOHN THE HULK WIGHTKIN-HOW 

ONE TIRE JACK WITH THE NAME MAR­furn1shed. good neighborhood 150 00 TEAC A107 cassette deck 277-8741 Students Interested helping on commit­hazardous to your bank account I can al­MUCH ARE YOU WILLING TO PAY? 
GARET ON IT CALL 288-0725 288-6721 tees for student conference 1n March en­ready taste those He1nekens If you •e TIMEX-SINCLAIR MICROCOMPUTER titled "Justice 1n the Nuclear Future?· are good, Ill g1ve you one I 
MARY HELEN SILVI HERES YOUR 

LOST N Y ISLANDERS Jacket at NEED A FEMALE ROOMMATE, Cute model 1000 with 16K opt1onal memory. 1nvited to an organ1zatJonal meeting PERSONAL .YOU WILD WOMAN'Corby s several weeks ago Call 7781 -Loft Apt . Good Location, 95.00/MONTH power converter,manual,extra long cable Thursday, December 2 at 6:30 PM in Please be gentle. 
BEANIE 

reward Utls. •nctuded. Call234-0824 Room I< 3 of the Nieuwland Sctence Hall. 
$145 272-3028 
BASKETBALL NFL vote 
NBA 
Eastern Con1erence 
Atlantic Division 
W L Boston 14 3 Philadelphia 13 3 New Jersey 9 9 Washington 7 9 New York 11 
Central Division 
Detro1t t2 6 Milwaukee 12 6 Atlanta 7 8 Ch1cago 6 11 lnd1ana 6 11 Cleveland 2 14 
Western Conference 
Midwest Division 
W L KansasC•ty 9 5 San Antomo 11 8 Dallas 7 7 Denver 7 10 Utah ~ 4 1 1 Houston 2 13 
Pacific Division Seattle 15 2 Los Angeles 14 3 Phoentx 11 6 Portland 9 9 Golden State 5 11 San D1ego 3 14 
Yesterday's Results 
Boston 122. Atlanta 97 
Milwaukee t25, lnd1ana 105 
New York tOt. Cleveland 84 
New Jersey 105. Washmgton 99 
DetrOit 105. San Antomo 97 
KansasCtty 143, Ch1cago 132 
Los Angeles 1 06, Houston 95 
Sea111e 131. San D1ego 110 
Tonight's Games 
Golden State at Dallas 
Portland at Utah 
Ph1ladelph1a at Phoemx 

postponed 
Pet. GB 
824 ..

indefinitely
813 5 500 55 438 6.5 
NEW YORK (r\P) -l. nion chief

313 85 
Ed Garvt:v said vesterdav National 667 Football League playt:rs won't vote 
667 467 35 on a proposed collective bargaining 
353 55 agreemenr until next week -the 
353 5.5 125 9 
second postpont:ment since the strike was settled two wet:ks ago. 
"There is no pos~ibility that the Pet. GB 
players will vott: on Friday," Garvey
643 579 5 said. "The contract will not be ready 
500 2 
until somettmt: early next wet:k." 
412 35 267 5.5 
But he added the 28 player 133 75 representatives "could possibly vote 882 as early as tomorrow.'' They had 824 1 hoped to vote last Tuesday. 
647 4 500 65 The union and Management 313 95 
Council reached apparent agree­
176 t2 
ment Nov. 16 on a five-year. s 1.6 bil­lion collective bargaining agreement, ending the players' strike after ~-davs. At that time rht: player rep~ voteJ to pass the agree­ment along w the 1500 player~ without recommendation. 
But the following dav. dispute~ arose over details within the agrt:e~ ment. 
Thursda;r, December 2, 1982-page 9
The Observer 
College basketball 


No. 1 Cavs stop Jrunes Madison THE YELLOW 
HARRISONBURG, Va. (AP) -SUBMARINE
jumped to a 41-.21 halftime lead and Guards Othell Wilson and Ricky Cardinals crush UC-SC were never threatened in the 
Stokes combined for 25 points last 
second half. The Broncos pushed as night as Virginia's top-ranked 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP) -close as 44-29 before the Cardinals 

FREE DRINK 
Cavaliers started slow but pulled away to post a 51-34 college basket­ball victory over James Madison's Dukes. 
Wilson tallied 14 points and Stokes 11 as the Cavaliers upped their record to 3-0. 
Wilson tallied nine ofhis points in the first hal~ leading Virginia to an eight-point intermission advantage. 
Virginia pulled away in the final eight minutes ofthe game, widening its margin to 20 points, 48-28, on a driving basket by Stokes with 1:12 remaining. 
Lee leads Memphis St. 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Keith Lee scored 19 points and Phillip Haynes added 18 to power fifth-ranked Memphis State to a 75-56 victory over St. Louis in a nonconference college game last night. 
Bobby Parks added 1 3 for the Tigers, who are unbeaten in three games. Andre Craig paced the Bil­likens, 2-1, with 1 5. 
After trailing 32-19 at the half, St. 
Louis pulled within nine at 36-27 in 
the first 2 l/2 minutes ofthe second 
half. 
Baskerville Holmes scored a free throw, Lee hit a basket and Holmes scored another field goal to put the Tigers on top 41-27, and the Bit­likens never threatened again. 
In the first half, the Tigers out­scored St. Louis 18-4 in an eight-minute stretch to move from a 12-l0 advantage to a 30-14 lead. Haynes had eight points in the surge and Lee, a 6-10 sophomore, added six. 
Guard Lancaster Gordon scored 1 7 
points as the seventh-ranked Louis­
ville Cardinals crushed the Santa 
Clara Broncos 84-56 in college bas­
ketball last night. 
Rodney McCray had nine rebounds, five assists, five steals and 14 points for Louisville, now 4-0. Re was one of six Cardinal players in double/figure scoring, while none 
of the Broncos managed to reach double figures. The Cardinals, who out-rebounded Santa Clara 58-36, 
scored eight quick points to remove any hopes ofa Bronco comeback. 
Louisville shot 54 percent from the field while Santa Clara, 2-2, was a cold 33 percent. 
Buy 
Observer 
classifieds 
dQ 


· 

'1,.1ft81j 1// '1 ~ ~ 1IN"'  for thos~ interested in being . part of the 1983mardigras!  
:;~tclS0"'­ HEAD COMMITTEE:  
MEETING: Thurs., Dec. 2  

1 p"!_ LaFortune Little Theatre 
or call KAREN 
at 277-6849 
Purchase any sandwich and receive a FREE medium drink. with coupon "Watch for our new menu item-Soup" 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
"The Nicest Buns In Town!" 
18109 Sl Rd. 23 OfferExpi<es 

272•4453 
Dec 7tn, 1982 

BROWSE ABOUT THE 
ART EXHIBITIONS SALE TODAY DEC 
from Ilam · 7pm At La Fortune Center Original Graphic Art
~~~Etchings-Woodcuts -lithographs 

PRICES GOOD THRU SAT., DEC. 4th, 1982 
CASE OF



MILLER oR 
LONE 


VODKA 
KINGS CELLAR VODKA 
~j~~R 7.99 LITER 4.99 ~~ 750 ML ............ : 3.99 
1

SMIRNOFF ..... :?~ ~~!~~. 9.99 
WHISKEY 
BEAM 
99
I 

10.99
~;. . BOURBON LITER 
::-~d 
JACK DANIELS 750 ML 
7.99 

ll_-.;:......  GIN  
KINGS CELLAR GIN  
~j~~R 7.99 LITER 4.99  
750 ML  .............  3.99  

BEEFEATER ....~5~.~~ ••• 7.99 
BLEND 1.75 LITER 8. ~.:. BEAM 1.75

Y2 Barrels  Quarts  
BUD LIGHT $2999  MILLER LITE  
MICHELOB$31  $899  
GENERIC $2199  PABST $ 799  

OLD MILWAUKEE $699
$2699 
6.99 


BEER 
LOWENBRAU 
· 24/12 OZ. N/R BTLS. 
7.99 
LABATT'S 
10.99

BEER AND ALE-CASE 
FURSTENBURG 9.99 

WINE 
Giacobazzi Bianco 1.99 
CARtO ROSSI4 99 
BIG 4 LITER! • 
ZONIN ASTI 
4.99
750 ML 


YOU'RE WASTING YOUR MON!Y BUYING ANYWHERE ELSE'! 
Thursday, December 2, 1982-page 10
The Observer 

...Wildcats 
factor" ....Phelps carried with him "The probkm we had was a problem
continuedfrom page 12 
a photograph of the late Rev. James of economics. I'm not afraid to play them. Don't be surprised to see Ken­
Shilts, C.S.C., the former rector of anyone. I haven't been afraid since I tucky slip in and do it all this year." Carroll Hall who died over the sum­was young and went downstairs in 
And once his inexperienced ac­mer. Rev. Shilts had been the team's the dark to shut off the water1-tors get more performances under chaplain on the bench for road heater." Oh, really?their belts, perhaps Phelps will be 
games last se-ason ....As always, saying the same about them some­there were the ever-present gim­Yesterday's Result day. micks. A banner proclaiming the Kentucky"5a, Notre Dame 45 IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame ACC "Freedom Hall North" hung Kentucky (58) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P
continues its grueling week Satur­
from the rafters opposite the Ken­
Hord 40 7-8 4-6 3 0 18
day night at 8 at the ACC against No. tucky bench. Fans wore Kentucky 
Bearup 7 1-3 0-0 0 1 2 Fried Chicken hats, and chanted Turpon
5 UCLA. which plays DePaul at the 34 2-4 1-4 1 2 5 M1nniefoeld 37 3-3 2-2 1 1 8
Rosemont Horizon "We want Kentucky fried." ... .Joe 
Master 35 4-6 0-0 1 1 8
tonight ....Notre Dame shot 46 
B. Hall, who for years balked at 
Beal 8 1-1 3-4 1 1 5 
percent in the second half, 48 for the playing at the ACC, was of course Hurt 18 3-3 0-0 3 3 6 game ....Misleading Statistics asked about the possibility of Walker 21 3-4 0-1 1 1 6 Dept: ND outrebounded Kentucky, continuing the series, which may be 200 24--32 1()..17 11 10 58 
FG Pet 750. FT Pet -588 Team
25-13. "When you shoot 75 percent discontinued after this year. "I 
rebounds-2 Turnovers-6. Assosts -10 (Hordand miss only eight shots," said would like to continue the series on S, Minniefield 5) Technocals-None Phelps, "rebounding's not much ofa a home-and-home basis," Hall said. Notre Dame (45) 

ENGINEERING TAKESON EXCITING NEWDIMENSIONS. IN THE AIR FORCE. 
astronautical, civil, 
OPPORTUNITIES 
electrical, mechanical and IN THE NEW 
nuclear. Hundreds of diverse USAF SPACE COMMAND specialties are included in a wide variety of work settings. For · example, an electrical ennineer may work in aircraft desi~n, space systems, power pruJuction, communications or research. A mechanical engineer might be involved in aircraft structure 
Compukr-gener;Jted design for investigating design, space vehicle launch pad structural strengths and weaknesses. Artist's concept of the DSCS III Defense Satellite 

construction, or research. 
Communications System satellite. (USAF photo.) 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITY Recently, the Air Force Developing and managing Air COMES EARLY formed a new Space Command. 
Force engineering projects could IN THE AIR FORCE -Its role is to pull together spacebe the most important, exciting operations and research and challenge of your life. The development efforts, focusing onprojects extend to virtually every the unique technological needs of engineering frontier. 
space systems. This can be your 
8 CAREER FIELDS 
opportunity to join the team that FOR ENGINEERS develops superior space systems 
as the Air Force moves into·the twenty-first century. · To learn more about how you .-\ir Force mecbanicalenguwer insperting can be part of the team, see your aircraft jet engine turbine. Air Force recruiter or call our 
Most Air Force engineers Engineer Hotline toll free have complete project 1-800-531-.5826 (in Texas call responsibility early in their 1-800-292-5366). There's no .careers. For example. a first obligation . 
/J

.-\ir Force electrical engineer studying aircraft lieutenant directed work mfa electrical po11·t·r supplr systt•m. 
new airborne electronic system 
Engineering opportunities in to pinpoint radiating targets. the Air Force include these Another engineer tested the jet eight career areas: aeronautical. engines for advanced tanker and aerospace, architectural, cargo aircraft. 

M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Varner  39  4-9  1-2  5  1  9  
Kempton  32  4-8  2-2  5  5  1 0  
Barlow  35  2-5  0-0  5  2  4  
Paxson  40  8-15  0-0  3  2  16  

Duff 200-00-0110 Rowan 11 2-5 0-0 1 2 4 Sluby 10 1-2 0-0 0 1 2 Price 10-0 0-0010 Dolan 10 0-0 0-0 0 2 0 Andree 20-00-0210 200 21-44 3-4 22 18 45 
FG Pet 477 FT Pet -750. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -8 Assists -10 !Paxson 4, Duff 3). Technocals-None 
Halftime-Kentucky 24. Notre Dame 19 Of­ficials -Ed Maracoch (Big Ten). Ken Lauderdale !SEC) A-11 ,345 

RESTAURANT 
15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Platter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike 
Red Snapper Trout Ala Mer 
Stuffed Flounder 
New England Scrod 
Rock Lobster 
Pan Fried Rainbow Trout 
, 
Gulf Coast Shrimp 
Stuffed Shrimp 
Pan Fried ·Frog Legs 
5:30 Nlglltly All Day Sunday 
100 Center Complex 700 L.W.W.. Mllllawlkl 259-9925 

___________________________________________. 
--------....--------------------­
Ihe~rver.==============~~========================~ 
T0 d~x==============T=h=u=r=sct=a=y=,=D=e=c=e=m=b=e=r=2='=I=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=t=l 

Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 
The Notre Dame Student Union p;esents: the Midwest's honest band 
Tickets Auailable


Duke T umatoe 
at Student Union
and the 


All-Star frogs 
rwoGrear 
Shows!!!
Saturday, December 4 10oo s JJ3° 
In Chautau ua La Fortune Ballroom 
~ior Bar This Thursday is 
Strawberry Daquiri Hite 
open 9:30-2:00am 


---~ ------~------------. 
Thursday, December 2, 1982 -page 12





SRorts 
Over Irish 


Poise, hot shooting lift 'Cats 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 21. Master, the 1980 Indiana "Mr. down, but just cracked in certain 
Basketball" from Fort Wayne Har-spots. We weren't talking as much as ding, finished with eight points. we should have on defense and that Digger Phelps had waited 12 years 
Sports Editor 

The Irish fought back, however, hurt us at times." 
for Kentucky to come to town, and thanks once again to all-America Phelps started two freshmen last 
he had Notre Dame ready. 

guard John Paxson ( 8-of-I5, I6 night (Kempton and Ken Barlow), The game plan -combining ag­
points). The 6-2 senior hit four jum-and inserted a third, Jim Dolan, in gressive defense with a patient of­
pers in a row to pull ND within five, key situations in the second half. fense -was in place. It was the same 40-35, with II minutes left. Kempton's 10-point, 5-rebound per­strategy that, last season, had beaten 
" Anytime you're within one, formance was admirable, but Barlow Idaho and had made a potential Iaug­three, five points, you've got a and Dolan struggled in their first real her in Pauley Pavilion only a one­decent shot," said Phelps. collegiate tests. 
point UCLA win. 

Unfortunately for Phelps, a decent Barlow, a 6-I 0 center from In-
But not all productions ofHamlet shot is something the Irish weren't dianapolis who had not missed from turn out to be perfect, either. Some able to come up with at that point. the field in 1I tries before last night, are spectacular; others have a few Kentucky moved its 2-3 zone managed just four points on 2-of-5 flaws. · defense farther out to shut off Pax-shooting in 35 minutes ofaction. 
And so it was last night at the ACC. son's outside shot. As a result, Notre "I'm gonna stick with him all the Some torrid shooting by Kentucky Dame went through a 6:46 stretch of way," said Phelps. "He's gonna be a combined with key mistakes by in­turnovers, missed shots and player good player, and I'm gonna have to experienced Irish players spoiled control fouls before getting another live with him throughout the 
the script, and enabled the third­basket. season." ranked Wildcats ( 2-0) to escape By the time freshman Tim Overall, Phelps, who had hinted with a 58-45 victory over Notre Kempton sank a turnaround jumper earlier in the week of his dislike for Dame ( 2-1 ) before the first sellout with 4:53left to break the cold spell, Kentucky and Coach Joe B. Hall and crowd ofthe season ( 11,345). Kentucky had stretched its margin his overwhelming desire to beat the Kentucky, a team top-heavy with to nine points. From there, the Wildcats, was in an upbeat mood af­juniors and seniors, was making its 
Wildcats went to a delay game, hit terwards. first appearance at Notre Dame in their free throws and breezed to vic-"We've got nothing to be ashamed nearly 33 years, and the Wildcats 
tory. of," he said. "That's what I told the made the most of their visit. Led by 
"We made a lot of key mistakes in players. senior forward Derrick Hord ( 18 key situations both offensively and "To bring Kentucky here and play points on 7-of-8 shooting), the defensively," said Phelps. "We had (the game) here was good for the Wildcats scorched the nets, shoot­some confusion on defense and let fans to see. They saw a good game. ing 75 percent from the floor in them have some open shots. We are "They (the Wildcats) have eight recording its second straight vic­young and inexperienc'ed in the guys who can play," continued 
tory. 

front line, but we will grow as the Phelps. "We have to struggle, play 
"Kentucky is a very, very good season goes along." eight or nine every night, hope that shooting team," said Phelps after the "Our inexperience showed with five of them turn on, and go with game. "No matter how many the turnovers," added Kempton. "In 
See WILDCATS, page 10
defensive switches we went into, we pressure situations, we didn't break weren't able to control them. We 
played three different defenses, and 

they beat all three. They made their Host Butler 
shots and put us in a hole 
"I like Kentucky's personnel. It's the best Kentucky team I've seen ­


Mary D. 's Irish seek first win tonight
even better than the one that won the national championship in 1978. By MIKE RICCARDI "Of course, this game doesn't Freshman Denise Basford, who "Butler has more Division I They don't miss (injured center Sports Writer have the national significance of a quarterbacked the offense in the (calibre) players than many Division Sam) Bowie at all." UCLA or a Rutgers (last weekend's second half against the Knights, will I t'eams," says DiStanislao ofthe Lady 
Diehard Irish fans will recall, The Notre Dame women's basket­opponents at the Orange Crush see a lot oftime as Mary D. continues Bulldogs, who won their season however, that Idaho shot 82 percent ball team gets a chance to exorcise Tournament)," says DiStanislao, opener Tuesday night, 79-62 at Val­
to work her talented freshmen class in the first half agaiqst ND last year some old demons when it faces But­whose career record at Notre Dame into the scheme. paraiso. "They work hard, and do and jumped to an 18-point lead, ler University tonight in its home stands at 26-29. "But we've never Up front, another freshman, Lynn simple things well." before the Irish were able to opener in the ACC's South Dome. beaten Butler, and this team needs Ebben (whose 27-point total last Bulldog center Beth Piepenbrink 
overcome those obstacles and post a Tipoffis at 7:30. confidence." weekend led the Irish) waits in the is 20 points away from BlJ's all-time 50-48 overtime victory. Mary DiStanislao's Irish women, DiStanislao is still undecided on wings as DiStanislao chooses among scoring leadership, and anchors a The same scenario seemed pos­0-2, will be attempting to break into her starting five for tonight's game, Carrie Bates, Ruth Kaiser, Shari Mat­strong front line. She collected 22 
sible last night. Alternating between the win_column against a Division II 
and her decision is complicated by vey and Mary Beth Scheuth to fill the points and I2 rebounds against a motion offense and a delay offense, power from Indianapolis that has the loss of freshman forward Trena three front line spots. Valpo. Coach linda Mason has 
Notre Dame trailed by just five defeated Notre Dame by nine points Keys, who will not return to the Scheuth, a native of Indianapolis, two first-rate players in Elza Pruv­points, 24-19, at halftime despite in each of their first two meetings. lineup until next week. will be playing against a former high lids and Barb Skinner. "Skinner is Kentucky's 12-of-16 shooting. Tonight's game is the first of six in The starting guard tandem school teammate tonight -sopho­equally dangerous from the outside But at the start of the ·second half, which ND will face relatively easy and as a driver," says DiStanislao of
probably will combine hot-shooting more Denise Gritton, who is Butler's the Wildcats' shooting ace, junior competition. It is a key stretch for a sophomore Laura Dougherty, whose top player off the bench. Scheuth the Bulldogs' scoring guard. Pruv­guard Jim Master, hit three straight team that cannot afford to lose to the play down the stretch brought and Gritton starred on a talented licis, the power forward, is excellent 
20-footers to key an 8-2 spurt that lesser lights on its schedule if it Notre Dame to within striking dis­Perry Meridian High School team on the offensive boards and is very gave Kentucky a seemingly com­hopes to be in the running for an tance of No. 17 Rutgers, and co­that lost only three games in their aggressive under the basket. fortable 11-point advanta2e at 32-NCAA tournament bid come March. captain Debbi Hensley. last two years there. Forward Sue Morris and guard 
Jenny Young round out the starting five.
AtACCtonight 

Mary D. remains concerned ilbout turnovers, the most obvious Irish weakness in the Crush tourney. 
Notre Dame lost the ball 50 times in two games -including I9 miscues 
Wrestlers host Valpo, Concordia inmeet 
By JEFF BLUMB Often times one comes to feel a "Most of the freshmen have ade­scores of38-10 and 33-8 respective­
in the first half ofthe Rutgers game. Sports Writer personal involvement with the quately fulfilled our expectations," ly. 
"That's what keeps us out of the wrestler. "After a spectator learns a he says, "and with a team this young Last Saturday, the Irish wrestlers 
Top 20, from being one ofthe better For those who would like to see a few simple rules and gets an interest had the option of going to the Gos­
you can't help but be elated with our rather than a
teams, mc;diocrity,"little contact tonight, the Irish in someone, he feels as if he's out record." hen Thanksgiving Tournament 
or says DiStanislao. wrestlers square off with Valparaiso there wrestling the match," con­Thus far, the team's top two staying here to practice. Only two "We'll use the next few games to 
and Concordia at 7:30 in a triangular tinues Bruno. "I know I do. I feel like wrestlers have been junior Mark Fis­wrestlers went, but both were very 
take stock of ourselves. The players meet in the ACC pit. I've wrestled 100 matches after a her and surprising freshman John successful. 
who are angriest about the losses,Many people ask what is so excit­tournament." Krug, who both possess identical9-2 Fisher took first at I26 and co­
the players who'll push themselves ing about a wrestling meet. Notre With wrestling being such a team­marks. captain Don Heintzelman, just back 
because they got pushed around (byDame wrestling coach Brother oriented sport, it is very easy for a Krug has become something ofan from arthroscopic surgery, took 
l<CLA and Rutgers) .... will get to joseph Bruno, C.S.C., answers. team to lose its cohesiveness. That is inspiration to the team at this point. fourth at I42. "Heintzelman was so 
play. There are still a couple ofspots"Unlike other contact sports," something that Bruno must work on "He's the star of the freshmen so gassed after his first match at the tri­
up for grabs." says Bruno, "wrestling is individual maintaining with some consistency. they all look up to him," says Bruno. angular meet that we had to replace vs. individual rather than team vs. So far this season, the Irish grap­"Plus he's so likeable. The freshmen him for the second match," says IRISH ITEMS Freshman
! 
team. plers own a 2-0 record. Bruno all gang around him." Bruno. "He decided that he needed fractures, etc. . ..Keys' ankle, 
l 
I 
! "The people there tend to get be­doesn't really know what to expect At the Olivet-Saginaw Valley State to go, and Fisher just likes to wrestle sprained against Rutgers Saturday, hind an individual. After they latch from Concordia tonight, because triangular meet last Wednesday, constantly." will be rested this week. The 6-I on to someone they watch him from they have a new coach. He does Krug had two pins, while Fisher, Both wrestlers hope to continue native of Marion, Ind., will return to match to match, seeing if he will know that Valparaiso tends to be Louis Carnesale and John Carnesale their success tonight against Valpo the lineup against Western Michigan repeat the same moves. It is much strong in the upper weights, though. each had pins against Olivet. and Concordia. next week ...Cathy O'Brien is easier for people to become at­Being the eternal optimist, Bruno Meanwhile, Doug Skinner and Phil Oh, and by the way, there will be responding well to treatment on her 
tached to people because there's a has been very satisfied with the Baty registered pins against Saginaw plenty of contact for those of you ankle injury and may be back in time personality there." team's performance this year. Valley State as the Irish won by who like contact sports. to play by the end ofthe month. 
l r 





