Keenan Revue -page 6
' ' ' 


\'( >1 •. X\'1. \/( l. H(l 

an mdependn11 srudenr newspaper st"rving notre dame and sainr mary's \10:--JDAY. FEBIHIARY I. ll)Hl 
Street battles 
Police,students clash in Gdansk 
WARSAW. Poland (AI')-Polin: or bdi>rc 'i a.m. connlTicd with sweeping tiH>d li>Ught ~rnTt hallles with youths in The· broadcast, moniton:d in prin· increases to go into effect (idansk ovt:r tht: '1\Tt·ke·nd in tiH· fir~t European capitals, hlamnl the ind­vlonday. the bigge·st hikt·s in major outhre·ak of vioil'nt prott:st to de·nt on troublcmakt:rs "taking ad­Poland's post-war history martial law )>illt t: troops opt·nnl tirt: vantagt:" of ren·nt relaxations of The broadcast said ihc troubk on striking rninn~ shortly aftn tht: some martial law re·strictions -a crupte·d whn1 groups of young 
military crackdown began. nwn· authorities had said was pos­peopk laikd to provoke passing 
The·· interior rninistn said dght sible bt:cause of growing e·atm workt·rs in the· street demonstration. polin·mn1 and six civilians wt:rt: across Poland. Tht: Interior :vtinistry said in a injun·d in the rioting. and that 20'i It was tht: worst dash n·portnl in communique carried by PAP stated pe·opk· \\Tre· put in dete·ntion and Gdansk, ht·adquartt:rs of the· indc­that the disturbance began outsidt• wt:n· to face summary trials. Tht: pt·ndt:nt lahor union SolidaritY. tht: giant V.I. lxnin shipyards and ap­violentT oe-curre·d Saturday hut was sineT force was used to put down peared to spread or be an:ompankd not reporte·d until yesterday. vioknt demonstrations that nuptnl by otht:r incidt:nts in the city's cen­
Telcphom· nunmunicati<,n~ with there shortly after the imposition of tt:r. <idansk arc not possibil'. and W<:s· martial law Ike. I5. On Ike. I 6, The state-run media has con­tt:rn reporters arc not allowed to state security li>rn·s opened 11rt· on tinually lashed out at Radio frt-c travd ouhidt: Warsaw. demonstrating mint-rs in southern Europt·, Voice of America and other 
Radio \\'arsaw rt:ported an im· Poland. killing scvt:n (according to shortwavt: radio programs li>r mnliatc gove·rnmcnt lTackdown on gon·rnmt:nt accounts). The military "instructing" Poll's to oppose the· till' city. with privatt: tt:il'phonc govcrnmt:nt has acknowlnlgnl two martial law authorities. snvilT cut olf and civilians li>rhid­other de·ath~ in martial law protl·sts. During the mdn·. some protes­dcn to he on the strct:ts after H p.m. Thl· rioting did not appt·ar to be ters ignored authoritil's' calls for or­
dl'f. attempted to storm public buildings and "behaved aggressive­ly" toward police. the communiqlll'


Hunthausen protests 
~aid. adding that calm prevailed hv evening. Authorities announced that

nuclear arms race 
hundreds of tht· 'i,OOO pn>pk detained have been relca~ed.
gin· 'iO pereTnt of my income tax as

By CINDY COLDIRON .\1ore relaxations were to go into 
a means of prott:sting."

\fa{lRefu•rl<•r dkct today -yet also today, the
Archbishop llunthau~en said that 
cost of nll'at. poultry. sausage and
he wa~ aware· that this action would 
othl'f foodstull., gol'S up 200 to 500St:attll' Archbishop Raymond (i. provoke a witk variety of re·sponscs. 
percent or more.
llunthauscn dt·se·rihnl nuckar But he was doing it in "the prayerful 
.\1ost political observers said such\\'t'apons as "tht· global crucillxion hope to discuss the issue ofdisanna­major price hikt:s would be impos­o(ksus," tdling a standing-room on­me·nt in a peaceful way." lk state·d. 
sihk without martial law. which
ly audil'IKC that he recently lkcided "I am not attempting to divide· the places armed soldiers and police on
to withhold 'iO percent of his community nor am I suggesting that income taxes in protest of the all who agnT with my vit:w with­nue·kar arms situation. hold taxes." See GDANSK, page 4 
The· Ard1bishop spoke last Friday During a question and answn 

Archbishop RliJ'IIWnd llunthausen spoke 011 the subject of the .VuclearArms Race this u•eekend. See storv at hft. (pboto b)• Chery•/ t'rtelt) 
night in the· Library Auditorium pniod following tht: ln:turt·. Ardl· 

stongly supporting unilateral bishop llunthaus<:n was asked what 
FederalReserve Board 
nudt·ar disarmament. Bq~inning the significance of the 'iO percent 
his main address with a rt·ading of was. the lkatitutks. Ard1bishop llun­lk stated that this was decided thaust·n statt·d that "wt· arc here to· somnvhat arbitrarily although 




Regan, Stockman endorse policies 
gt·thn to rdlce·t on Jt·sus' teachings about "'iO pnccnt of our budget and how they relate to nuclear arms. goes to all shadt:s of prt:paration for Wt· t·ngagc in nudear idolatry. not war and past conscquuKes of war." WASHINGTON (AP)-Treasury dent will send Congress a I 'JH5 
erratic program the·n this confuses (iod, wlll'n we· put our trust in \X'hen asked what kind of a StTrt:tary Donald T. Re·gan. denying spending plan ne·xt week containing business kadtTs, the peopk who 
lllKkar wt·apons... rt:sponst: thne· had been in his the Fcde·ral Re·scrvc Board is being 
"a major sweeping program to work and opcratt· in the moneylk adtkd. "I believe in unilatnal diocese to his plan of action, the used as a scapegoat. said }TStt:rday 
reduce the size of the ddkit." marke·ts." disarmament because· I hdkve in Archbishop statnl that "it is only tt:n the administration will take the 
including e·uts in social hendit Saying tht· h·d has "ve-ry blunt the· way of the nos~. \X'e should days old in the diocese and I have hlamt: or the cre·dit" li>r what hap­
programs. tools now," Regan said the· ad­
resbt violence with low. I bdkve been hearing a whole spt:ctrum of pt·ns_ to the economy. 
Stockman also t:ndorsnl the ministration has asked the hank to 
wt· all nenl to lind a wav hack to the responses." White Houst: budget director Ft·daal RcstTve's tight-credit "sharpen those tools so the·y can he· divinely gin·n way of the cross and David A. Stockman said the prc~i­
policies li>r bringing down inllation. more· accomodativt· with more one way. li>r me, is hy refusing to 
See ARMS, page 4 
"Dcspitt: some recent adminisration precision in their results." 
discomli>rt" over the way the· na­Fed Chairman Paul Volckcr andtion's central hank has followed its
Nofresh fruit 
otht:r senior n·seTVt' oftkials havt·policies Ill' said... No one in the ad­
cxprc~snl conn-rn that unless the·
ministration helkvcs the course is prt:sidcnt reduces the record wrong.


Survival kit causesproblems 
ddkits that loom ahead. interest
In scparatt· tekvision inte·rvit·ws. 
rates will surge· again and prcvt·ntlkgan and Stockman sought to play
By MARK WORSCHEH Complaints about the kits wne that they were not l'Conomic n·covt:ry from occurring.
down the amount of tficrion tlwt ap­
.\lujj Repor/l'r delivered until aftn exams had he·gun. and that al­Stockman, intervkwcd on ABC's 
pears to bt: tkveloping hctWlTn the
though the kits advntisnl "Fresh Fruit" in the solicita­"This WtTk with David Brinkky,"
\X"hite House and the powerful. in­
Tht· gcnnal availability of the· Notrt· Dame dirt:ctory tions to parents, studulls found substitutions for fruit in said tht· administration will he
dcpt:ndcnt Fed O\Tr how to end a
to outside compank~ olkn results in parents rn:civing the· boxes. taking steps to rnlun· projected
worst:ning recession and return the
solicitations\\ hich may not have oftkial llnivnsity ap­One junior re·portnl,"l'vt: btTn getting tht: packagt: ddkit~. and wants the· Fed to con­
nation to prosperty.
proval. <ll'cording to.Jame·s :vtcDonndl. Dire·ctor ofStu­li>r two }Tars. and each }Tar tht:re was a nott: inside the tinue its "basic policy of slowing tht·
"\X"t· arc not trying to make tht·
dt·nt Scrvit'l's. package to the dkt:t that thne wne substitutions li>r rate of mom·y growth."
Fed a scape·goat ..... Rt·gan said on
.\kl>onnell said that such was tlw cast· with regard to the fresh tropical fruit. With the cost at SlJ.60, I doubt lie said that policy already has
CBS's "face tht· Nation." "First ofall.
the l'xam Survival Kits which \\'l'rc sold to parents and that the substitutions were e·qual in value to the· tropical hdpt·d reduce tht· inllation ratt: sig­
we'll take the blame or the credit li>r
distributnl last Dt't'l'mbt-r. Some· ~tudcnb han· re·ccnt­fruit." nitkantly in tht: last year and not
what's going to happen tn this
ly uHnplainnl about the· u>ntt·nt~ and ddivcry of the In this cast·. the kits Wl'fe· supplied hy the Student simply li>r the short term.
t'COilOill)'. I think it will ht· crt·dir."
kits. Service·~ Co.. a .\1assachusetts tlrm. using an on-campus But Regan also stood by his stan "\X't· have· broken tht: inllationary\lcDonndl ~aid that this prat'licc cannot hl· stopped. studt:nt rcpresentativt:. This student had not applinl ti>r public complaints of last \HTk that spiral. \X't· don't want to SlT tht· Fed
t'Vt·n though ~olicitation~ !rom the Notn· Dame-Saint a merd1andising permit. according to ,\1c Donnell. who the Fed's erratic swing~ between re·tre·at or backtrack from that dirt·c­
\lary's com----------------admittnl he was "totally unawart: of this thing (the 
overly tight and overly loose cre·dit tion at all." Stockman said.
munuy 111 ust mailing) being st:nt out...
MONDAv..BI~lt~~~:~;: helped cause the curn·nt rnTssion. On feb. H. Rt·agan will send
re·cdn· pcrmis­Some n·e·tors also said they wert: unintimnnl of the 
and more recently has triggned a Congn·ss a budget plan for llJH.-\ that
~ion 111 the li>rm delivery of packages such as the· Exam Survival Kit. 
rise in inte·rcst rates. is t:xpcctt·d to project a recordof a nwrchandis· Sr. Jean Ixnz of farky flail said "I didn't know that
••FOCUS 
"What we art: asking tht:m is to ddicit of nt·arly S I 00 billion in lise· at ing e·onccssion. was e·\'t·n happening." Sht· said if studt·nts did not please he consistent in their llJH2, nearly Sl)O billion in ll)H3 and"for t:xampk. recdn· their packages, she· "didn't know where to tell 
monetary policy so that our around SHO billion in ll)H4.
tht·rt· arc in~urann· companks who ust: the dirt:ctoril's tlwm to go." program will have a chance to Never bdort· has the govcrnmt:nt
to l·all stutknb. t·spe·cially juniors and seniors. We can't 
See FOCUS, page 4 
work," Rt:gan said. "If they haw an accumulatt·d so much red ink.
stop that," said .\lcDonndl. 


ewsBrieh 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A Milwaukee police officer was 
killed, his partner injured and a man they were trying to arrest also died of wounds after a gun battle at a pool hall, Police Chief Harold Breier said. The slain patrolman was identified yesterday as Sidney Snow, 29. Hi!. partner, 31-year-old James Zastrow, was treated at a hospital for a head cut and released, police said. Snow was the third Milwaukee policeman killed in the line ofduty since December. Mel­vin Smith, 39, of Milwaukee, who the officers tried to arrest on a warrant Saturday night, also died ofbullet wounds, police said. -AP 
Despite scientists' assertions that a major 
earthquake is likely to hit California during the next 20 years, only 5 percent ofthe state's homeowners have purchased quake insurance. That contrasts with figures showing 80 percent of Californians believe that a major quake will strike within their lifetimes, In­surance Information tion Services in San Francisco safd. Thomas Flynn, a spokesman for Allstate Insurance Co. in Santa Ana, said a new resident from out-of-state is more likely to insure a home against earthquakes than a native Californian. Dr. Kate Hutton, a seis­mologist at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadc:na. said studies show that a massive earthquake occurs on the San Andreas Fault, the: state's major quake fault, every I 40 years. The last one 
occurred 12S years ago. -AP 
A man whose right hand was nc:arly severed from his arm in an industrial accident was listed in good condition yesterday after doctors at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston 
reattached the: hand. Brian McCafferty, 22, of Lincoln, Maine, re­
quired more than I 0 hours ofsurgery after the accident early Satur­
day morning at Bio Energy in Lincoln, said hospital spokesman Peter 
Fish. Paul LaBrecque, a co-worker, said McCafferty was working at a 
machine when he nearly lost the hand, but LaBrecque said he didn't 
know how the accident occurred. Bio Energy produces wooden pel­
lets. -AP 

Henry Fondadoesn't believe actors should compc:te for 
honors, but he displayed "one big grin" on learning that he had won 
the: Golden Globe Award for best actor in a dramatic picture, his wife 
said yesterday. Fonda, who had been hospitalized for sevc:n weeks 
recently with a near-fatal heart ailment, won the award Saturday day 
for his role as the embittered oldster in "On Golen Pond." His vic­
tory was both a sentimental delight to the Beverly Hilton audience 
and a surprise, since Burt Lancaster has won most critics' awards for 
"Atlantic City." Otherwise, the 39th Golden Globc:s seemed like the 
Dudky ,\1oore and Alan Aida Show. .\1oore. the permanently 
bombed mllionairc of"'Arthur," claimed the award for best actor tor 
in a comedy or musical and also accepted for .John Giclgud. who was 
voted best supporting actor for hb dutiful. if irreverent, butler in 
""Arthur." The tllrn was named best comedy or musical and also for 
best song. '"lksr That You Can Do." Aida collcctt·d the: Golden Globe 
as bt·st actor in a TV comedy sc:ric~ and for .. MASH" a~ best comedy 
series. But his movie, '"The Four Seasons." failed to win in three 
categories in which it was nominated. -AP 
The government ha~ a new idea in going after the kingpins of the illegal narcotics tradt· -hJrget the drugs; follow the money. The Mratcgy i~ horn from a simple, but mind-boggling, fact: the narcotics trade rakes in so much currency -vast piles of it. car­tons. duftk hags. sometimes planeloads of it, all in little bills -that dealing with thl money becomes an awesome dilemma for those at the top. Last St·ptcmbcr. agents in a government narcotics raid which resulted from the new strategy found diftlcultics with the new policy. They seized S3.6 in small bills in an oftlce in Miami. Then I 0 agents spent eight hours just counting the money -and they were using the kind ofbill-counting machines that banks usc. Subsequent­ly, they found that the drug underworld uses the same machines. 
AP 

The Executive Governing Board of the: 
Saint Mary's Board of Regents approved a preliminary S62H,OOO budget for I 982-8.3, representing a 21 percent annual increase tiJr institutional concerns and ti.>r tlnancial aid at its regular meeting)an. 
18. The board also set Saint Mary's tuition. room, and board at $7,.370 for next year. The proposed budget also calls for an II per­cent increase in salaries for fa<:ulty, stall and administration. -The Observer 
Mostly sunny today with highs in the mid to upper teens. Increasing cloudiness tonight with ncar steady temperatures. A chance of snow tomorrow with highs from the upper 20s to low 30s. -AP 
\1onday, February 1, 1982 -page 2 
de Vick carries hope 
Her name has been outside the President's office at Saint Mary's for at least a week, but most SMC seniors still don't know who she is. 
Born in Brussels, Belgium, she became a U.S. citizen in I<)76 and has had articles published in The New York Times and Cross-Currents and The Sign magazines. 
Since 1967, she has published eight books, including A Liturgy,A Passion Play, andA Garland ofStraw, but does not have a favorite. "Once it's written," she says of her poems and books, "I never think about it again." A liturgical artist of current times she, as reviewer RichardS. Hanson notes, reveals a God that "is God ofall and ... regards all human attempts to worship that One as worthy of universal respect and attention." 
"I want to stress hope," she explains. "The simple message of Christ -light overcomes darkness. Life overcomes death." 
She's Catherine de Vinck, speaker for the I <)82 SMC graduation cxerices and she's also a woman all mem­bers of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community can admire. 
It's difficult enough to raise six children but to also become a published author is a special achievement of its own. Termed as "first and foremost a poet," Mrs. de Vinck is also a theologian whose creativity makes her work relevant to current times. 
In the "credo" ofher book, Liturgy, she professes her faith: 
I believe in oneness in the final wedding ofall that is: here there in surprised moments taste and bliss are pressed upon my blind and walled form and I feel the thread oflife pulled through the fabric of the world gathering all things all ages of man moon earth all students servant lovers of truth into a single shimmering cloth. 
She believes "in this hard mystery" of life and is not "oscillating between shadow and light/wedded to all that is dying/and drawn to what stretched beyond/the golden wires of the sun." The painful ambiguities oflife disillusion but do not dispirit her. The challenge to "evcrv Adam." as de Vinck sees it. is to he "summoned by ciod's word/through perils and tests/to grip rcalitv,/to choose love." 
Ch~Josing love in the midM of pain and suffering is diftkult but :\lrs. de \'inck accepts the prt·misc ofsuft.cr­ing in one's life and asks "Who wants life scraped clean of pain'" her work reflects not only her own suftering, but the suft"cring of others. But perhaps de Vinck's suffering has been more special than any college stu­
dent could experience. 


Her son Oliver was born April 20, 1947. The second of her six children, he "seemed like any other newborn child" but shortly after his birth it was determined he had incurable brain damage. 
"It's hard to express what such a verdict meant to a mother," Catherine de Vinck noted in her July/August 1977 Sign magazine article "Oliver." "It pierced me to my depths, ripped apart the very fabric oflife. It was not something one could put aside or escape. The world appeared darkened; it was as if the whole reality had been covered with a gr.ay tUm. I didn't understand yet." 
But she did come to accept Oliver's condition "in 
darkness and ignornace, yes, ... even manage a simple, 
immediate consent.... ! could not see the purpose ofthis 
trial, but I could say yes to God. I could begin to learn 
about trust, could begin to realize that God's ways arc 
not our ways." 
Four more children followed after Oliver's birth in 
the de Vinck household, although Oliver remained 
'"the baby' -the little one who was helpless, needed 
extra care and would never grow up." Oliver's original 
life expectancy was only that of seven or eight years, 
but he died in March, 1980, at 34. Obviously, the priest 
officiating at Oliver's funeral noted, "They (Oliver's 
physicians) didn't count on his mother's devotion." 
Oliver remained bedridden for his 34 years, unable to speak or even lift his head, yet Mrs. de Vinck felt he was a "precious gift" for her family. "His total helplessness speaks to out hearts," she wrote in 1977, "calls us not merely to pious emotions but to service.... Through Oliver, I have learned the deepest meaning ofcompas­sion." 
For her, Oliver's death was "very painful ... extremely 
painful ... yet I felt a great joy. I really knew he was risen, 
alive and well." The soft-spoken, French-accented 60 
year-old wants to stress awareness of the pain and 
suffering in the world h> graduates. "We can't ignore the 
pain ofso many people. We can't ignore their suffering," 
she says. 

The answer to solving the pain and suffering of the 
world. she acknowledges. is ""very difficult. The 
problem can he so overwhelming. hut we can all do our 
part. t >n a personal level" we can all do something. We all 
come into contact with need." 
Saint .\1ary's seniors and their families will have a 
chance to listen and learn more from Catherine de 
Vinck during commenccmen!. \lay I 'i. :\1ayhe the 
message will last paM the ceremony. 


/)esign Hditor...... .... (in·g Swic:rcz /Jesign Assistunts.... ...... Tim :"lil"cl)" 
Paul \tlcGlnn 
... Kath\" ~turry
Layout Stajf 

Troy \tikl" l)uill 1)•pesellers .. Vhrk \1iotto 
Kaym(Jnd ln~lin 
\'t•u•sA,'\.'\istullf Uoh \ on~krht:ilk 
Copy l:.diturs . .. Paul \1c(~inn .\jJorts Copy Editor....... ......... Pl·tt:r .\1anzo "l'}•pist... .. .......... Davt: Grote .VU Uar• /:ditor ... .. ..........John ~k( :arthy Pbulugrapber.. ..... Cheryl Ertdt Guest AjJjJt•arann•s . ......... The Rising Sun 
The Observer tUSPS 598 920) 1s publrshed Monday through Fnda y and on home tootball Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students ot Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a 'Tlember ot The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 

Hev, Mardi Gras Dancers/ Having trouble selling those sponsorships? Not to worry: 
Anyone interested in a time slot to sell at the Dining Halls call jack or Chris at 1058. 
Also, Hall Reps interested in getting their 
hall dancers together to sell tickets at a mall call Jack or Chris. 
Editorial Board
==Ihe Observer~ 
/:ditor-in-Chief.. . ..............._John \lcGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
Executil'l! .Veu•s Editor Kelli Flint Sports Editor Skip Desjardin 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the .Veu·s l:"dilor.. .. ..... David Rickabaugh Photo Editor.... .. .............. .. .....John .\1acor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily S.IJC Lwcutit•e l:"tlitor . .........:\1ary Agnes Care~ Editorials Editor.. .....Anthony Walton reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­SMC .'Veu•s l;"ditor.. ...................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .................. .....Gregor-y Swit:rcz ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board_ Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business .Hanager ......... ... Rich Coppola Production .Hanager .................. \lichacl Monk
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encounged. 
Controller .................. ....joe :\1ultlur Circulation .Hanager .............Tom \tacLennan Adt•ertising .llanager.... ..................Chri~ Owen S)'stems Jlanager .... ... Bruce Oaklc~
P.O. Bo:x Q, Notre Dame,_IN 46556 
The Observer :\londay, February l, 1982 -page 3 
'New federalism' 


Reagan plans m.ore state control 
families with lkpt:ndem Children.

Editor's note: President Reagan's ington would bt: haltt:d undt.·r 
In addition. Rt:agan wants to turn
proposal to transfer more than 40 President Reagan's "new 
ovt:r to the statt:s nmtrol of -l.:\ otht:r
ji!lleml programs, from food fcdt:ralism" plan, outlined tiJr tht: 
programs, including transportation,
stamps tu IJltKk lung clinics, to tirst time in his State of the llnion 
education. ht:alth, community
address last week. 

state control would re1.oolutionize 
dt:vdopmt:nt and social snvict:s on
th<• u•ay Americans meet many so­Instead, Reagan would rt:storc 
which tht: federal government now
cial needs. In tbe first ofa fiw-part dty halls, county courthouses ;md 
spends S30 billion.

series. AP u·riter Christopher Con· state capitols as the places wht-re 
Tht: White House maintains that a
nell examines the ce11terpiece ofthe pcopk turn with their problem. 
S28 billion "grassroots trust fund"
Reagan plan. High-ranking administration oft1­
from t:xdst: taxt:s and the oil
BY CHRISTOPHER CONNELL cials say they have only" sketch. not 
windfall tax would cushion states
a blut.·print, for how this transfer of
ilssociall•lJ Press 

against loss of rt.·vt:nut.•s during a
power would work, or how much it 
transition pt:riod riod from tlst.·al
In the half-century since J>rcsi· would cost. 
198'1 to tlst:al I')9 I, when federal
dt·nt franklin D. Roosevelt in­Tht· ccnterpien: ofthe president's 
tinancial support would c:nd.

troduced the New Deal to lift tht.· plan would be a ti:deral takcovt:r of 
But some statt.· officials tear tht:
nation from the Depression, the S.:\0 hillion Medkaid health in­
switch would leave the rich Sun Belt 
Americans have looked to the surann· program for the needy, in 
statt:s richt:r and the hard-prt:ssed
fC::deral government t(Jr many of exchangt: for having states ;~bsorb 
industrial statt:s oftht: Northeast and
their needs, from checks ti>r the un­the S I 1.3 billion ti.md stamp 
Middle Wt:st poort:r.

employed to conncte for highways. program and the largest wclfart: 
In his State of the Union address 
Th<~t traditional reliance on Wash-program, the S I'> billion Aid to 
Jan. 26, Reagan charged that many 
wdfarc programs arc "poorly ad· ministert:d and rife with waste and fraud," and that "virtually every American who shops in a local su­permarket is awart: of the daily abuses that take place in tht: food 

University celebrates 
James Joyce birthday 
stamp program." chitecwrc Auditoflum ar H p.m. 
Two days aftt:r Reagan's spt:cch, By TIM PEITERS Wednesday. Congress met in another joint ses­.VewsStaff On Thursday, Roy K. Gottfrit'd sion to mark the centenary of will present a lecture at 4:30 p.m. in 
Roosevelt's birth and hear FDR's 
february 2 marks the IOOth an­I I 7 Haggar Hall dealing with the voict: again proclaim: "I sec one­nlversery ofthl· hirth ofJamesJoyce. book /Jubliners. Gottfried is an as­third of a nation ill-housed, ill-clad, The College of Arts and Letters has sociate professor of English at Van· ill-nourished." 
set up a week-long celebration to dcrbilt University, and writes many Roost:vdt was the fatht:r of many commemorate this centennial, articles on Joyce. Friday, David of the social welfare programs that including tilms, lectures, and a Hayman will lecture on Ulysses. Reagan is trying to transfer out of reading. Hayman is a proti:ssor at the Univer­Washington. Gregory Schirmer, an assistant sity of Wisconsin, and is an inter· The original Social Security Act professor of the English ikpartment natonally known authority on that Roosevelt signed Aug. 14, 193'>. Is coordinating the activities for tht: Joyce's work. The lccturl· will bt: also created the AFDC welfare week. "Many students have already presented Friday at 4:30p.m. in the program as well as unemployment been exposed to Joyce's work. A lot Galvin Life Scit'nces Auditorium. compensation and aid to the blind. of high school and college courses The tina! evl·nt ti.Jr the week will Foml stamps also have thdr roots includt· some of his writings." be a dramatic rt·ading from in tht: Roosevelt era. Tht:y started in Schirmn teaches a literature /Jub/iners and Portrait oftbe Artist the late 19.:\Os as an Agriculture course on Joyce and utilizes some of as a }'oung .Wan. Actors from the lkpartment pilot project in Rocht:s­
Joyce's works in an Irish studies Theatrt: Arts Guild of the Council of ter, N.Y., to unload surplus crops and course. Irish Arts in Chicago will stagt: tht: ked tht: poor. Before the program On Tut.·sday and Wednesday, the reading. The guild presents plays in lapsed in 1943, it had expanded to 
ti:stival will present two t11ms. Tues­the Chicago area, and was on 88 cities and I,700 countil's and was day at 8 p.m. at the Library campus last spring to present Scan helping fct:d 3 million people a Auditorium. A Portrait of /be Artist O'Cascy's Sbadow of a Gunman. month. as a Young .Wan will be shown. The reading will bt: held Saturday at ll~ysses will he shown at tht: Ar-8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 

Lou Guckien and her Dancing Irish tetm11nates kicked up a fine performance during halftime of the basket/Jail game Saturday. (photo byjobn .Wacor) 
Nationwide poll 


Atnericans believeReaganotnics 
:-.JEW YOkl\ (AP) Most fifty-two percc:nt said they agree thl'ir incomt:s, tht· more likely they Amail'ans hehe\T lkaganomk·s with the statement: .. President wert: to tlisagrt:e. haw hdpnl the rich and hurt the Reagan's program to stimulate the Fifty·ti.Jur perct:nt said Reagan's poor, according to the latest As­economy will hc:lp upper income program will reduce intlation fur· sociated Press-NBC .Veu•s poll. people tirst. hut will t:ventually ther -the same pncentagt: which 
But a majority belicvt· Presilknt benctlt low and middle income said it will not reduce unt:mploy­lkagan's program will eventually pcopk as wdl." ment. have a "trickk down'' effect to help The higher tht: respondt.·nts' And 'IH pl·n:ent said Rt:agan's 
middle and lowt·r income classes. incomt:, the more likely tht:y were program will not reduct: intt.-rt.·st Tht· nationwillc poll survt:yed to agree with that statement of tht: rates. whik -!.2 percent said it will; l.'>:W adults by tdephone Wednes­"triddt· down" tht.·ory. The lower I 0 percuH wert: undt:citled. 
& Thurs. ONLY Offergood through February. 
Open daily except Sunday at 4:OOpm. 
1123 Spring Street Mishawaka 256-2620 
..


L------------­

,
day ami Thursday. aftt·r the pn·si· :........................................................................................ 
dent's State of the lin ion address on Tut.·~day . .\1ajorities also said tht·y think the 
HolyCrossFathers I 
president's economic program will 
Vocation Counseling 1
rt·ducc inllation further hut will not 
rcdtKe unt.·mployment, and a How do I know
plurality said they don't want to St.T ! 
if I have a vocation to the priesthood? ~ 
inllation drop more if it means high­t"r tllll'mploymt·nt. 
W1at is the ~cademic Sixty-sl·ven pt:rcent said tht·y and formation program for becoming a priest? think Reagan's t.·conomic program has hdped upper income What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
' I 
Americans, compared with I 3 per· 
cent who said it has hurt tht·m. 
Wdt are the various 

Twenty percent were either thcr 
apostolic ministrie• of the Holy Cross priests? 
not sure or said Reaganomics had made no difference to upper income 
How do I pray 

' 
Amerkans. if I'm thinking or a vocation to the priesthood On tht: other hand, '>3 percent and I'm not sure? said Reagan's economic program has 
I <il 41 po•t''"')ol) IIJI~N.il•t~tdlit~t·r."..,. "''lh n" <ihi~<~KXI 
' 
,,...,..,.. ,,,,,.,,. oo~ll ''"' v•d1M"'""'"''" 
k··~ o\odn-l.t-vt-tlll· • ~' • Uu~ ~~ 

hurt middle income Americans, 
l'ltJ4Il•lJ.tnM•.Ind 4(1.1~

compared with 24 percent who said 
l'ordfJ'P'.'IItl"'"" 
~..lbo-tWI'rfl8.1011m
it has helped them. 
llfld•JOpm 

I
And 7'> percent said Reagan's 
phone:

• I II 
economic program has hurt lower 
219 239-6385 

income Ameril.:ans, compared with I0 percent who said it has hdpt:d 
~ 
them. 

:...,..........................................................................................4 
r The Observer Monday, February 1, 1982 -page 4 


continuedfrom page I 

many streets and which restricts gatherings and meetings. 
The observers speculated that Poles would accept the price in­creases quietly, at least initially. At­tempts to raise prices in 1970 an 1976 sparked bloody riots, and a meat price hike in 1980 led to strikes that launched Solidarity. 
Despite  rumors  circulating  
around  the  capital  that  some  
workers  and  city  transport  

operators would stage some sort of "non-political" protests in Warsaw, 
there was no sign of any such organizing yesterday. 
Witnesses reported new groups of special police moving near several hotels, and travelers said the main north-south highway between War­saw and Katowice was closed to civilian traffic, possibly to facilitate troop movements. 
The ban on sale of gasoline to private car owners was to be lifted today, and PAP said restrictions on intercity telephone calls and telegrams would be lifted Feb. I 0. 
Warsaw radio said gasoline sales would not be allowed in Gdansk and 
......................................................................................................................... 
Cogimo'g CJJaUt Cl)egighl 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 75 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) 
........................................................................................................................ 
PLUS \ 
MARCIA FREDERICK ; 
AND ~~~R~~~f~~TAR~ \\)2'' 
FRI.,_FEBRUARY 5, 
8.pm Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets-s7.50 & s9.50 (S2.00 off on s7.50 ticket for ND and SM C studen.ts) On Sale-ACC Box Office 9 am to 5 pm 
In daily debriefings 

Dozier provides information 
VlCENZA, Italy (AP) -As US 
paratroopers with automatic rifles 
stood guard on rooftops at the army 
base here, U.S. Brig. Gen. james L. 
Dozier took a break from intensive 
debriefing yesterday to "thank and 
praise God for sparing my life_" 

Three days after Italian police commandos rescued him from Red Brigade terrorists, Dozier attended a Protestant church service at the base with his family. He told the con­greation of 180 how prayer had sus­tained him during his 42-day ordeal, said base chaplain Maj. Robert E. Bendick. The service was closed to reporters. 
In Florence, police said they had arrested a sixth suspect, pharmacy clerk Luigi Gastadello, 28, in con­nection with the kidnapping. 
Police in Padua said earlier they 
believed eight people acted as 
Dozier's "jailers." Five people were 
arrested Thursday when police 
raided the hideout where Dozier 
was being held, and police said they 
were searching for the others. 

... Gdansk 
large gatherings would be prohibited there. 
Other restrictions to be lifted this week are bans on gatherings such as weddings, family reunions and those organized by the Polish Red Cross and volunteer firefighters. But meetings by other groups such as trade unions are still taboo. 
The ofilcial media said new prices for consumer goods such as some •. clothes, shoes, furniture, and toys were being reduced because "numerous and unjustified" prices instituted Jan. I had resulted from new costs for raw materials. 
In other developments: 

at the Vatican, Pope john Paul II. 
saying his native soil already is 
"soaked with the blood" of those 
who died for freedom, yesterday 
strongly defended Solidarity's right 
to represent Polish workers. 

Polish Foreign Minister Josef Czyrek arrived yesterday in Paris for a week-long visit. He will attend the 24th Congress of the French Com­munist Party. 
Polish television broadcast a lengthy program on U.S. policy, showing President Reagan being shot last :vtarch, his rise to power in politics and American troops fight­ing in Vietnam. A panel of Polish journalists attacked Reagan's policies and imposition ofeconomic sanctions against Poland and the Soviet Union. 
Rome police said the big break in 
the Dozier case came after police of­
tlcer Nicola Simone was shot jan. 6 
by a Red Brigade member posing as a 
postman. 

They said the fleeing terrorist dropped a telegram that was traced to the home of Massimiliano Corsi, a Red Brigade member whose move­ments eventually led authorities to suspects who divulged the location of Dozier's captors. 
U.S. officials hen: said yesterday that Italian investigators are asking the 50-year-old general to recount even the tiniest details about "what 
·he saw, felt and sensed" during his 
time in the Red Brigade's "people's 
prison." 

"The general is responding very accurately and showing the ability to endure long, intense sessions, and so we are trying to speed up his debriefing schedule," spokesman Lt. Col. jack Barham said. 
Barham had said earlier that the 
debriefing, which began Saturday, 
would last up to eight hours a day for 
up to a week. 

He said Italian authorities also were asking Dozier to identify cer­
continuedfrom page 1 

''I'm really not opposed to this 
thing," said McDonnell, who added 
he only wished students would go 
through the right administrative 
channels. 
This way, according to McDon­
nell, "we end up protecting the stu­
dent as well." His concern is that 
companies from out of town will 
make the profit, and then never be 
heard from again, leaving the stu­
dent to handle complaints. 
While this was not the case in the Exam Survival Kit offer, an employee of Student Services Co. admitted that the distance between Massa­chusetts and Notre Dame was the cause of the missing fruit. 
"The problem we've got is thar we've got to figure the fruit will ripen over the distance," said Tom Richards, a company representative. 
"If we can't get material green enough, it will get, well. 'squishy."' Richards said he could not answer 
the question that fruit, though ad­
vertised, had not been included in 
the kits the last four years. 
Students Services charges $9.60 for the box of ·~nourishing !>nack foods" designed to help students through the "most crucial, nerve racking period of the entire academic year." The company provides this service to 370 other 
schools besides Notre Dame. 
Richards called the price "fair," 
and said, "I think the retail price is 
over that." 
PERFORMING ARTS SERIES PRESENTS: 
SPECTACULARSUITE 
• WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 8:00P.M. 
Vinie Burrows_ Actress Ms_ Burrows has developed a spell-binding and unique theatre form which has gained her fans on three continents_ 
• SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 3:00P.M. 
Barbara Geary, Pianist Barbara is an alumna who has gained international acclaim for dynamic pianism and 
artistic intensity. 

• THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 8:00P.M. 
Carol W incenc and Heidi Lehwalder, Flutist and Harpist They have gained enormous prestige and acclaim on their own, but love playing their exquisite repertoire together_ 
:H~o·I~!U'I,':nltJIIdt~•.ltill•t"l( 1 ·•1 '}.1 h!'ui\,~·J,h,ol• :~~--' '''• •,o·l.o'" }SI mi.Jih $6 \htd,..,,, 

tain objects brought from the gang's Padua hideout where he was held captive. 
The questioning is. bdng led by Guido Papalia, the prosecutor who had directed the search for Dozier since his abduction in Verona on Dec. 17 by four men posing as plum­bers. 
Dozier, dressed in a blue-grey suit, was in a jovial mood yesterday as he arrived at the church with his wife, judith, and daughter, Cheryl. 
Bendick said Dozier, the highest ranking U.S. officer at the NATO base in Verona, addressed the congrega­tion at the end of the service, to "thank and praise God for saving hi~ life." 
"He said he prayed for the authori­ties who were looking for him ... that they might be guided by God to make the right move and decisions," Bendick told reporters later. 
"Secondly, he prayed for his life that she would not be unduly alarmed ... and finally he prayed for himself that God's will would be done and that he could be in accord with that will." 
... Focus 
McDonnell, however, felt that such a package could be put togeth­er through a local supplier at much less cost to parents. 
Stanford Hall offers a similar package for parents to order for Hal­loween and Valentine's Day ti1r 85.00, according to Steve Theobald, Stanford Volunteer Service Commis­sioner. 
WSND-AM 
celebrates 

35th year 

WSND, AM-64, celebrates .35 years of providing the Notre Dame 
. and Saint Mary's campuses with news, sports, and album rock. Now broadcasting every day of the academic year from 7:00a.m. to I:00 a.m., the station features everything from the informative Notre Dame Week in Review to complete play by play coverage of Fighting Irish ath­letics. One can call the instant re­quest line at 239-6400 to hear his favorite song. Full details will air later this week in the Birthday Bonanza. 
...Artns 
continued from page 1 

He continued that he was in favor of "multilateral disarmament be­cause as Christian people there is no way we can support this violence in our world." 
Hunthausen suggested that stu­dents prepare themselves as non­violent apostles of Jesus. "I believe students are no different from other people and should put the example ofjesus before all else." 
Fort Wayne/South Bend Bishop William !\1c.\1anus began the session with a prayer for peace, and :vtonsig­nor john J. Egan of the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral and Social Min is­try then introduced the archbishop. 
The Archbishop's public lecture. which was sponsored by the Com­munity for the International Lay Apostolate, addressed the theme "\X'hy Challenge Nuclear Arms? Ris­king a Christian Response." 
The Observer Monday, February 1, 1982 page 5 



Soviets flood NATO -with 'peace' appeals 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) The cards demand that NATO Propaganda post cards from ministers and generals stop "the thousands of Soviet youth urging an reckless arms race you arc imposing end to the "reckless arms race" arc upon the nations," and the "imperial 
snarling the postal operations at ambitions" that threaten human NATO headquarters, an official says. civiilization. Since mid-December, the North The wording is the same on all of 
Atlantic Treaty Organization has them, since it comes directly from a rt:cdvcd seven mail sacks bulging cutout printed in Komsomolskaya with season's greetings and Pravda, the official newspaper of the 
doomsday warnings from Soviet stu­Soviet youth organization Kom­dents accusing NATO generals of somol. threatening to blow up the world, 
"Cut out the text following the according to a NATO official who 
dotted lines and glue it to an ordi· 
asked not to be identified. 

nary postcard ... Then put a stamp on 
lie said that what may be the first it ... air mail 27 kopeks, regular mail 

direct-mail propaganda campaign I 0 kopeks -and put it in the mail· from tht· Soviet Union since NATO box," the newspaper suggested. 

was formed in 1949 has slowed The newspaper asserted the textdown the postal operation at head· of the appeal was adopted at a youth

quarters here. rally at a farm machinery factory in
"They have to go through all the 

the Don River city of Rostov, about
cards to make sure there is no im· 600 miles south of Moscow. It wasportant mail stuck between them," 

printed in the paper, like a coupon,the official said. 
next to NATO's address.

lie estimated the number ofcards wt·rc "in the thousands" :md said Many of the senders signed their most of them eventually arc burned names and gave their ages, like with the rest of NATO's tons of dis­"Nicolai, 17," and "Andrei, 15." One l'artkd paper. card was signed by what appeared to 
Somt· of the more colorful ones be an entire school class and another wt•rt· put on display in the office of had no slogans at all, just a picture of the NATO press service, and others Lenin. -from a sack rt·cdved last week -One said simply: "Happy New wt-rt· shown to The Associated Press. Year." 

O'Meara, Duggan controlclosings 
based on the: recommendations
By KANDY POWELL 

from city, county, and state: officials, 
Neu•s Staff 

said Anne Reed, Saint Mary's dirc:c­
tor of public relations. "Wt· kec:p in st·ssion today, and one can thank Notrt· Dame and Saint Mary's arc 
good common sense and safety in Timothy 0'Meara and John M. Dug­
mind whc:n making our decision," she: said.
gan for that. No mattt·r how many times a 

Notre Dame: and Saint :\lary's roommate prodaims the dosing of 
dosc:d last January I I, the: day sdwol, only tht· Notre Dame 
bc:forc registration, largely because Provost 0'.Meara and Saint Mary's 
police had closed some highways in Prt·sidt·nt Duggan can say tilr sure. 
Indiana and Michigan. Any strong warning from tht· police, Reed
Their dn:isions arc primarily added, could t·asily It-ad to the closing of school. The provosts also consider the safety of off-campus
Mould 

students and faculty and stall /If the decision is made to close tht· institutions, it is the rt·sponsibility of

recezves 

Richard Conklin, Notre Dame public relations director and Reed to in­
grant 
tilfln the media. The closings would be annoucnl over WNDli. anti most of the other local radio stations.
Dr. l·:rk .'vlould. assistant professor W'hen the schools closed lastof biology at Saint .\larv's Colkgt·, 

January, only the administratiwrt'tTntly rt'tTin·d a S)9,0H2 match­oftkcs closed as classes had not yt·ting grant from the Instructional 
rc:sumcd. Tht· provosts of bothSdt·ntilic Equipment Program oftht· schools dc:cided to close the institu­National Scit'IK<' Foundation. 
tions lilr the safh-y of the administra­
.\lonks wt·rc used to update the 

tion and staft·. The last time the
biology tkpartmt·nt's teaching schools cancelled classes was during

cquipmt·nt in tht· area ofphysiology. 
the blizzard of.Jan.. 197H.
Among t ht· items purchased were instnlmt·ntal physiological record­ing t·quipmt·nt, high resolution microscopes, eltTtrophoresis equipment, and other ancillary laboratory supplies required to pt·r­form mmkrn precision physiologi­t·alt·xpt·rimt·nts. 
TRAIN TO BE A MI·MHEH mAN 
OUTSTANDING TEAi\1 
Ttw U.S. Army Rt·s~rvc in the ~outh Bend are' area rweds mt•n lo bewrne 1\1 ditary Police. Tht• Army will provide the !raman)! and as'i~n you 10 a unit near home. Y uu wdlt•arn at lea'! ) l0011 a Y''•H lor weekt·nd drills and annual traming. You might also qualaly tor a $2000 ca'h bonus or up to $-IIJOO tor collt•ge. For mort· information, call your Army Rt•serve Recruiter wday: 
A 234Alli7 

ATTENTION: NDandSMCstudents e Do you enjoy AUTHENTIC ITALlANSTYLEfood? eDo you enjoyPIZZA cooked how only Mama can cook it? eDoyou enjoy GOOD SERVICE and aFRIENDLY ATMOSPHERE? IfY es, then you must try: PARISI'S 18455 South Bend Ave. -North of Edison on 23 Just past Turtle Creek Apts. 277-0578  


South Bend winters always seem to provide ample work for those who are good at snowjobs. (photo by Chery•/ Ertelt) 
Cabinet reps 


Student Gov't examines issues 
By GREG O'MEARA "Neighbor of the Month Award" to dt·nt exchange with the University Student ClfJIIenl ment promote responsible tenant bc:­ofToronto. havior. He: has also worked to The follOll'ing article is a par/ of dcvc:lop a student owned and 
Annie Botloh, l·abinct membc:r in

the continuing series on tbe student managed food cooperative in the charge of Transfer Srudcnt's 
government and its effects upon the five-pont area. 
Orientation has just about tlnishcd

Notre Dame community 
working to make the switch easierChuck Russo was tl;e Academic Rkk Hutlcr, another sptTial liJr those students who arrived hc:n: Commissioner of the Notre Dame projects voluntt"l'r, has been trying a ft·w weeks ago.

Student Government last fall scmes­to improve the campus cash llow. 
tc:r. In a presentation before the IIall persuading the Credit llnion to Bill Pfl"ift'cr and Jim Wolfe put to·Prcsitknt's Council, Russo place a 24-hour banking machine at 
gethn student govnnmcnt's ap­
demonstrated the impracticability the Main Circle Bus Stop. 
proadl to Third World Concernsof continuing the Student Govern­
anti Social .Justice. Pli.:iffcr brought inment Course Evaluaton Book. To fill 
Alumni Relations Commissioner 
James <irant. former chairman ofthis need, he has bc:gun to work with 
Bob McDonald has been working to 
liNICEF and helped sponsor I.atn
dt·partmcnt chairmen to publish 
sc:curc summt·r jobs f(Jr Notre Dame 
Amt·rican Week. Jim Wolfe workedtheir own course descriptions, 
students. Through his t'ft(>rts and 
to bring about Nudc:ar Arms Wc:ckavailabk to all students. Extending 

those of the llall President's Coun­
and will again work with Mary Ann

tht· number of study days before 
cil, members of the: Alumni Board 
Roc:mer of Yoluntt·t·r Services totlnal exams has also bec:n one of the: visircd the campus to present their 

sponsor the: Social Concerns Film summc:r job program. 
commissioner's concerns. 
series.
Working along similar lim:s, Larry ,\1atlden, in charge of special 
In addition to helping with the ar­
projects, has worked to extend the Rcvit-wing the cabinet's work, 
rangcmc:nts tilr the job's program. Patrick Borchc:rs comments "It wasMemorial Library's hours during mid-term and tlnalcxam periods. He 
H.P.C. liason, Bob Zimmc:rmann, a sucn·ssful semester on the: whok. I helped to sc:t up this semester's stu-imagine Murday is very pleased."
is presently c:xamining the study 
space sutl1cicncics in c:vcry dorm. 
!lousing Commissioner Patrick Borchcr c:valuatc:d dorm requests tiJr matching funds slated tilr hall im­provt·mcnts. Borchc:rs also con­centrated on dn·eloping highc:r quality oft~campus housing; his sug­gestion of townhouses is prcsc:ntly being considered. Along with Bor­chcr's cft(Jrt to improve oft--campus life, Eric Ycy has been working with the Northc:ast Neighborhood Coun­cil to better Notre Dame-South Bend relations. V ey has developed a 


Photos by John Macor 
The Observer Features Section 


Keenan Revue ridicules audience 
T
he sixth edition ofthe Keenan Revue thoroughly ex­ploited virtually all ofthe aspects of Notrt· Dame this past weekend. Besides the multitudes of Corby's jokes, keg jokes, nasty female jokes, and the usual assort­ment ofdegrading administration jokes, there were some excellent musical performances, and many in­spired, innovative moments. 
By Jtyan Vvr Bvrkmovs 
Always offbeat. the Revut· began with an authentic 
looking N.D. maid strolling across stage, past two im­
mobile chess players, and announcing the beginning of 
the show. There upon ti>llowed one of those usual 
rousing production numbers consisting oflots of boys 
dancing almost in step. 

A favorite act was "The Dancin' Irish Republican Army." The already easily abused Dancin' Irish were brutalized. Using the same music as the better known half-time herfers, this group of men, sporting military duds and machine guns. ti>llowed Pat Iknatar's lyrics to tht· kner. thus when Ms. lknatar sang "knock nlt' down..." -they did. Hopefully this act won't disband and will find gainfult·mployment at the ACC. 
The most original patimnance was logged by the "Keenan Tumblers." This act delighted tht· audience with its quasi-French-Italian yells, and its continuing Sl'fil'S ofacrobatic failures. Typical ti>r this act was the unli>rtunate tumbler who instead of !lying into an ekvatnlchair alter hitting a smalltrampolinl', went tragically Hying otlstage. As they did after all thdr failed dl(lfts, the tumhkrs exchanged embarrassed glances then rallied with a resounding yl'll of: "lleyyyy'" 
Steve Fox fatTd the audience alone armed with no­thing mor<: then his "llooskr Booher Culx·." Based on till' Rubie's Cube, thl' version toutt·d hert· as: "all the en­tertainment Indiana will ever need" differed in that all thl· sides were the same color. Fox rambled through his routine with all the alacrity ofa combine in mud. 
The low point of many shows arl· often the musical acts. Nothing is worse then long stretcht·s of uni­npsired. insipid note hanging. Fortunately ti>r the audil·nn· thb proved not the case -fi>r the most part. 
Kl·vin Simpson's solo on the piano was nothing short ofexcelknt. IIis fast paced medley kl·pt the audience akrt and awake. David Pl()(enhauer also performl·d solo oil the piano. Although his performance was com­petent, it sn·med misplaced coming right after a loud 
and raucous musical parody. 

Entitkd "Waiting For Now." the K<:yes brothers and friends showed genuine talent pertimning the theme .~ong from "IIill Street Blues." Their next pinT, like it s name, was somewhat long and unmenwrahk. They wisely saved their best li>r last. The naml· of the song was: "Lakeside," and wa.~ composed by tlashy keyboard man Tim Keyes. The logieallyrics and fast tempo caught on with the audience, who gave it one ofthe loudest ovations ofthe evening." The evening did produce one musical anomoly. Hans lloerdemann, the Revue's Producer, attempted to resurrect" MacArthur Park" from the graveyan.l ofdead disco didleys. Actually, the musicians paformance was very good, the major tlaw was Hoerdemann's pretentious and stagey perli>r­mance. The only person taking the singing seriously was lloerdemann. At one point a girl added to the songs "drama" by dancing onto stagl'. Now I thought the Keenan Revue was strictly pntimned by hall residents. Now unless l'r. Conyers has made some exception to a wdl known University policy, what was a girl doing in 
thl· act? ller presence only allowed llot•rdemann to in­
dulge himself in one of the most vomitious moments of the evening, when he "dramatically" flung the girls flower into the audience (almost hitting this reviewer in the process). Too had they took thems<:lves so seriously, merely substituting the football player in drag who played "Buffy B-P" in another skit for the girl who would have given this act a new and entertaining quality. 
One ofthe slickest production numbers was a parody of"My Fair Lady." In between clever songs like: "The Aim of Fame is Namely Notre Dame'," the actors tossed out some of the most savage one-liners of the night. Overall. this act showed the payoff from long hours spent practicing. unlike other acts, it was free from the foolish mistakes and slips. 
The recent tire at Corby's received freqm·nt comic attention. The best was during "Rule Out the Barrel." \X'hen ahand ofadministration hl·avies sung: "we took care ofCorby's" and proudly !licked their Bics. 
The surprise of the evening occured during the hall stall' produced skit. The voice ofGerry Faust was heard praying at the grotto for victories. Suddenly l'aust him­selfappeared onstagt· to the roar of the crowd. Faust, who was obviously having the most fun he's had in a long time (a real long time) took the microphone and pron·eded to turn the Revue into a spontaneous pep rally. Merely hy saying such cliches as: "N.D. is the best in the world" the crowd went into a frenzy. 
An act satirizing "Nightline" got off to an amusing start as jim McClure as Head Koppel mugged his way through opening music that wouldn't stop. A routine concerning draft registration suffered trom innant·lines ;ind a stuttering actor. Local shinehead Dick Addis came in li>r abuse from Bill Bastedo. Bastedo not only had Ad­
dis' ingratiating voice down, but his gestures rellected 
those of the frenetic weathercaster. Bastedo's pnti>r­
mann· was remarkable considering a tragic breakdown 
ofthe slide system that was central to his routine. Just 
like his weatherword, Bastedo got "Pimped." . 
I:ven Notre Dame's always hard working groundscrews were represented. At the end of"Coupla' Couplets," one of those legendary leaf-rakers made an appearance and summed his feelings about the whole thing in long phrase in some south ofthe border dialect. 
"The Price is Right" and "Mr. Rogers' Notre Dame" were both acts which should have stayed back in the hall. Neither one made a lot ofsense, and even worse, werl· devoid of humor. Credit should go to the actor who portrayed :\1r. Rogers. His: "can you say keg" was the one ray ofamusement in an otherwise clouded act. 
Special commendations must go toJohn Monetti and 
John Warnock. These two sat inexplicably still at aches­
sboard for most ofthe night. The audience was unsure if 
tht•y had been stuffed by savage hall members and 
placed on stage or what. Finally, they revealed that thl' 
whole point ofthis incredibk exl·rcise in still-life was 
all to makl· a joke ahout waiting t(>r the other 10 make a 
move. Proofonce again that some people will go to any 
ridiculous length to appear on stag<:. 
Overall, the 1982 edition of the K<:enan Revue was 
on par with years past. As usual, the bulk of the humor 
was at someone's expense. The effort would have been 
improved if the number of ice cream jokes, Hreen­
Phillips jokes (what did that hall do to Keenan?), the 
several thousand drinking relateu jokes, and evl·ry joke 
about dat<:s, sex, and the dome were changed. They 
became predictable after awhile. Also, the women of 
the ND-SMC community were the butts ofan innor­
ditute number ofcracks. 
In the t1nal analysis, the whole Revue is incredible 
considering it consists entirely (well almost entirely) of 
llallmemhers. The end result was generally an evening 
well spl·nt. 
.. 

,, .
~ 
Monday, February 1, 1982 -page 7 


Barbers sometimes get under the skin 
H
ow mam· time~ have vou had 1·our hair nn' .\1y hair b beginning to curl 111 hack and obvtously I have to go to the barber today. I don't like going to tht· barber. llavingsomconc !(JOiing around with my hair bn't unpkasant, but wht·n it's over I never look the way I'd hoped to look. I want to look great and I never do. 
One oftht· prohll'ms for most ofu~ is that we really look best when we need a haircut the worst. \\'hen you haw it cut oil it gives you a brand nt·w. shorn look that vou don't want. \X' omen who have just too olwioush-come from tl;e hairdrn.ser nen·r look g;>od to me. I'd ratht-r havt· them a littk rumplnl and windblown. 
I always tell the barber the same thing. "Don't takl· much oil." \\'hilt-he's snipping ;m a)· I think he's not taking enough oft: btll the next morning. <1ftcr l'n· taken a shower, it <II\\ <I)'S looks as tiwugh he 
took too mueh. l'n· decided 

the reason ti>r thb is that when hl· combs it ti>r the way he cut it, it looks tine. but after 


a night's sleep I go bat·k to combing it my wav and it doesn't look the same <It all. It doesn't t1t the haircut he gave llll'. Some oftht· strands of hair that I put on till' right of my p;trt, wert· cut to go on the left of my part, and vice versa. 
In spite ofquite a bit ofdissatisfaction. most ofus arl·loyal to a bar· her. \X'omen are a littk more lkkll'. They gl·t mad at their hairdresser every once in a while and move to another. \1anny has been cutting my hair !(Jr about eight years now and I wouldn't think ofgoing to anyone else even though I pas~ I 0 barbershops to gl't to hh. ".\1anny'' ban unlikd)· name for a harbn. but I'm n>mti>rtabll' with him even though I don't know his last naml'. 
It takt·s a whill' to hre<~k in a new barber. and I suppose it takl'S even longer to hreal.: in a hairdresser. I originally went to \1;mn}' when my former harht·r retirt·d. and I was apprdlt·nsive het·ause thcrt· was a sign in the window that said .. \h'n's IIair Styling." I didn't 
·. 
want my hair "stykd." I w;tntnl it cut. I don't want to tdl you how 
much it costs. It always costs mort· if the harhashop daims to styk 
your hair instead of just giving you a haircut. 
The first barber leva had was named Kdly..JuM as I don't ktWII 
\1anny's last name. Ididn't knm1 \lr. Kdly's first. I w<~s ymmgand ht· 
was just .. \1r. Kelly" to me. A haircut cost y; cents tht·n and I hated 
gl·tting one. I had to sit there in a lint· ofchairs Saturday morning 
while thl· other kids were out playing. Thcrt· \\Tre alw;tys a ti.·" kids 
getting their hair cut Saturda1· and \1r. Kdly took us in o t rdn. \\ l' 
each moved up one chair whl'n he 11nishnl till' kid lw was working on. En-rv once in a" hik a gmwn 111<111 would co!lll' in Saturday morning and \lr. Kdly IH>Uld put him right in the chair alwad ofall of us kids. It never occurrnl to llH' at the time that it wa~ wrong. In retrospect.! doubt that thl' adult was going to do anything mon· im­portant with the rest of his Saturday morning than I was going to do with mine. 
The 111ost intnl'sting plan· lever got my hair cut was a big hotd barbershop in .'\lew York. Till')' charged the same as l'Vl·ryont· dSl' but the shop was ITrv dass1 and tht·v had 20 barbers. Even· tillH' I \\Tilt thl'fl' to have n;y hair.t·ut. Frank Costello. the mob lc~dcr who • was later gunned down but survived to dk a nalllral death. was hold· ing li>rth. lk was having his shoes shined. he was gl·ttinga shavt· and having his nails done. all whill' the barber snippnllightly at the hair on his hl·ad. 
About the ti>urth time I went thL·n·,l said to my barbn,'"Ge(:, it's a 
coincid~ncl', but every time i'l'l' come in hne, Costello has been 
hert· too." 

· "He comes in here every Jay and stays all morning," the·barber 
tofu me. 

Everyone who worked there liked Frank Costello. He was a great 
storytellerand a big tippa. I k even began saying hello to me with a 
big smilt-. so I kind of liked him too. 
\X'e all have our good points and our bad points. frank Costdlo 
was a gangsitT responsible fi>r dozens of murders and half the crime 
in the United States during the 1940s and 19SOs, but, on the other 
hand. he was good to his barber. 

r---~---­
. 
Monday, February 1, 1982 -page 8



Sports Brie s 
::~B~y~T~h;e;;O~b~s~·e=r~v~e~r:a:n:d~T:b;e::A:s:s(:J:c,~·a:t~e:d~P;r:e:s:~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Tickets for away Notre Dame basketball games against 
Seton Hall and Michigan are available at the second floor ticket office 
in the ACC. The Seton Hall game will be held on Thursday, February 
18 at the Meadowlands Arena in East Rutherford, N.j. Tickets for the 
Michigan game, to be held at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on 
Sunday, March 7, are priced at 54, S6 and SB. ~ The Observer 
The Student Unioncontinues to sponsor ski trips to Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at 11 p.m. Bus tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for 52.50, or on the bus itself.for $3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental are available -The Observer 
The ND Billiards Tournament begins today in the poolroom in LaFortune (located below the Huddle). It will be straight billiards of 100 balls. Players call their own shots and the winner advances to the finals, where the champion gets a trophy. There are no entrance fees -you only pay for your time ofplaying. Students may sign up in the poolroom anytime -The Observer 
The Chicago White Sox winter publicity caravan will stop in South Bend on Wednesday, February 3. Events include a press conference at the Knights of Columbus Hall, 81 5 N. Michigan, at 6:30p.m., to be followed by a smoker at 7 p.m. Featured guests will include manager Tony LaRussa, catcher Carlton Fisk, slugger Greg Luzinski, outfielder Tom Paciorek, and also the Sox' new mascots, "Ribbie" and "Roobarb." Players will be available for autographs af­ter the session. For more information, contact Dr. John Toepp at either 234-9800 (K ofC), 288-6321 (home) or 287-5542 (work)­
The Observer 

Cross-country ski rental is available weekends to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239-5100. ­
The Observer 

Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Dave Dzied­zic is looking for people interested in working for the 1982 tourna­. ment. Call Dave at 3596 for details. -The Observer 
Larry Bird andRobertParrish, using variations ora play they run with the Boston Celtics, dominated the fourth quarter of the National Basketball Association All-Star game Sunday, leading the East to a 120-I 18 victory over the West. "We ran a play that the Celtics use throughout te year," said Bird, who won the Most Valuable Player award. Bird scored 12 of his 19 points and Parrish added nine ofhis 21 in the fourth quarter. Bird also had 12 rebounds. 
Iowaontop 

BigTenrace nears halfway mark 
Iowa's sixth-ranked Hawkeyes of Thursday night's schedule finds Indiana stopped Minnesota's 
overcame their jinx weekend and Wisconsin at Illinois, Michigan State Randy Breuer in the second half but 
head towards the halfway mark in at Ohio State and Northwestern at the Hoosiers still couldn't catch the 
the Big Ten basketball race in sole Michigan. Gophers who now have won four of 
possession offirst place. Iowa's game plan against Ohio five games on the road. 
Iowa went to Michigan State on State was to stop Clark Kellogg, who Breuer scored all 1 5 of his points Thursday night where the Hawkeyes some feel is the best player in the Big in the first half but as Hoosier Coach hadn't won a game since 1972 and Ten, so Coach Lute Olson had the Bobby Knight put it, "The game was came offwith 57-56 triumph. Then Hawkeyes abandon their zone won in the first six or seven minutes. they turned their guns on Ohio defense and go man-to-man. Minnesota again won it at the line, State, a team they had defeated only Mark Gannon went against Kel­netting 19 of 20 free throws. The 
.once in the last six tries, and posted a logg. Kellogg finished with 1 7 points Gophers opened a 17-point lead ear­76-66 victory Saturday. and 9 rebounds while Gannon ly in the second half which helped That left Iowa on top with a 7-1 scored a game-high 19. hold offan Indiana rally. 
record, one game ahead of Min­"Mark made Kellogg work very, 
nesota. The Gophers halted In­very hard the entire game," said Ol­"It was one of our better games," 
diana's five-game winning streak son. "Mark did an excellent job in said Coach jim Dutcher. "You don't 
69-62; Illinois blasted Michigan keeping the ball away from him, get too many 1 7 points leads here 
79-61; Purdue rebounded past especially in the second half." (at Indiana)." 
State edged Northwestern 64-61. 
Minnesota, posting two road vic­
tories during the week, held second 
place with a 6-2 record while Il­
linois, Indiana and Purdue are tied 
for third with 5-3 marks. 

Ohio State, following a 3-0 start, 
slipped to sixth place at 4-4 followed 
by Michigan State 3-4, Northwes­
tern 2-5 and Michigan and Wiscon­
sin tied at 1-7. 

Both Iowa and Minnesota will be 
home Thursday night when the race 
reaches the halfway mark with game 
No. 9. Iowa will host Indiana and 
Minnesota takes on Purdue. The rest 


MEN'S FENCING Notre Dame 14, Clemson 13 Notre Dame 23, Purdue 4 Notre Dame 20, Wis. Parkside 7 Notre Dame 21, M.A.T.C. 6 Notre Dame 19, Washington 8 Notre Dame I 7, Northwestern I 0 Notre Dame 20, Chicago Circle 7 WOMEN'S FENCING Notre Dame I 5, Purdue I S.Jnt Mary's 14, Purdue 2 Notre Dame 12, Wis. Parkside 4 Saint Mary's 9, Wis. Parkside 2 Notre Dame 9, M.A.T.C. 3 Saint Mary's 10, M.A.T.C. 6 Notre Dame 9, Washington 2 Irish swimmers kept their beads above water, barely, over the Saint Mary's 9, Washington I weekend. Notre Dame men and women defeated Western Ontario Northwestern 9, Notre Dame 4 by scores of63-51 and 70-61, respectively. Saint Mary's 9, Northwestern 5 Photo by Cheryl Ertelt. 
The Observer wtll accept classifieds Mon­
-.­

day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear tn the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prtor to tnsertton. All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
etther in person or through the mat\.




Classifieds 


LOST. DARK BLUE AMITY BEACH WANTED: 1 housemate for 6 bedroom CPT 4200 word procesor-cassette sys­QUERIDA TEAR GERARD. 

WALLET ON MONDAY THE 25TH house. 717 St LoUis Ave. Call232-3237 tem w1th VIrtual memory opt1on and 45 cps 
NOTICES 

FELIZ CUMPLEANOS!!! QUE TENGAS Rotary Ill pnnter. $2150. Phone 234­
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN HAYS-TRICIA -Even FrUit Loops aren't fun 

UN MARAVILLOSO DIA. 
HEALY AND THE ACC. MANY IMPOR-WANTED: Reliable woman wanted to w1thout you.
7242 

CARINOSAMENTE. 
TYPING. EX LEGAL SECRETARY 272-FOUND. PLEASE CONTACT JIM AT Call233-3846 Y'all be sure to w1sh Stanford's resident ARTy RAMON 5337 WE REMEMBERED!! 
TANT IRREPLACEABLES INSIDE. IF prov1de child care 1n my home part t1me STEREO SPKS. 200w Power Capac1ty. 
puppy TODD L.. a Happy B-Day-He sx1523. HELP! 
4-way System. Base Reflex. AcoustiC
LOOKING for 20 people who des~re now 133 (that's 19 to you and me). SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE WITH A CAROL, KATE AND AILEEN: WOULD
Controls. 5yr Serv1ce Warranty.LOST. Pearl and gold bracelet and ear­$1000 monthly extra mcome on a part 
DENNIS-1208

BOUQUET OF FLOWERS DELIVEReD t1me basis Onentation w1ll be Thursday, Anyone 1nterested 1n JOining a new club to MOM LIKE ME? 
nngs. Call Judy at 3842 REWARD!! 
EVERY WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS 


February 4 at 7:00 pm 1n Park Jefferson ra1se money for MUSCULAR WEDNESDAY'S CHILD French Quarters. Call for directions and
WEDNESDAY'S FLOWERS 289·t211. DYSTROPHY-call 8321 by Wednesday .. . . . . . . .. . ' ' ... . . . . . . . .. BILL -HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! I DO

mformat1on Wednesday, February 3 be­2/3. Please help tween 3:00 and 5:00pm. Cal1256-5741 or VALENTINESDAYISCLOSEBY . 
I FOR RENT 
BELIEVE A BONNIE DOON BANANA
TICKETS 
232·6587. 
MARDI GRAS MARATHONERS!! Hi1 BOAT IS IN ORDER! (WHAT'S A your roommates, swtemates. 
CELEBRATION WITHOUT ONE RIGHT?) .
LOOKING for 20 people who des~re dormmates, classmates -any and all
Wanted. 2 G. A s for NORTH CAROLINA 
ILOST/FOUND I STUDENT RENTALS 2SIXBEDROOM $1000 monthly extra 1ncome on a part mates -for sponsorships. Sponsors MARY 
ST on 2-13. CALL TOM at 1470. 
HOUSES NEXT DOOR TO EACH t1me bas1s. Onentat1on w1ll be Thursday could w1n a tnp to New Orleans during OTHER. FULLY CARPETED. 
Mardi Gras You could w1n a color TV or a LOST-Rockwell calculator 1n North D1ning FIREPLACE AND LOFT CALL 272-OBUD needs help! We need a few ded­stereo or lots more! lt"s all for a good RIGHT TO LIFE RETREAT February 5. Hall over weekend no quest1ons asked. 7:00 p.m to February 7. 1 :00 p m. Only

7767. 232-4057. 272·2720 ICated people to answer quest1ons and cause. We thank you call Bert at 6863 $12-call Pam at x7947orJohn at x6804 
complaints for JUSt one hour a week. Call 
PERSONALS 
2 ROOMS. PRIVATE SHOWER AND 239-6283 for MARY D. ENTRANCE 288-0955 t.iformatlon, at~d help the lVD

LOST TEXAS INSTRUMENT CAL­MARY D. 
CULATOR LOST BEFORE MARY D. WSND celebrates 1ts 35th birthday o~ SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES ­
campus coMmunicate. 
CHRISTMAS BREAK IN NIEWLAND The Mary D1Stan1slao Show-tonn1ght at February 9! L1sten for (he upcom1ng
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND 
January 26-February5 

BIRTHDAY BONANZA on AM-64!!!
SCIENCE HALL PLEASE CALL 287-FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277·3604 Need Aide to Buffalo weekend of feb. 6 or 6 on WSND-AM64 
2405 IF YOU KNOW ITS almost any other weekend call Ray at SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES 
WHEREABOUTS THANK YOU. FURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW. 272-1684 Fazo/ phase-a GOB Yay. sackratscab How would YOU sound affer 35 years??? 
Dr. Strangetove 

rubbo.grubrub.npshank nasto/nastoflex L1sten fo the best rock plus news. sports,277-3604 
February 1. 3. 4. and 5 

LOST; ONE PEARL NECKLACE. lost be­STAYING OVER THE SUMMER? --both NON & SEQUITUR. eh. Qu,se­and campus events-all on AM-64!!! 
Engmeenng Aud1tonum
tween the Huddle and the library-1f found Subleasing 1 bedroom Campus V1ew Apt qUJse?
Efficiency apt. pnvate entrance 100 mo. 
7 and 9.30 p.m 

please call 284-4981(necklace has deep June-Aug. Reduced pnce Call Anne or DARBYITES OF THE WORLD
close ton d. also 3 bed house 1 1/2 bath 
50 admission 

sentimental value) reward. Thank you. call2558505 Mary 4637(SMC) WHO IS THE STUD OF 301 DILLON? UNITE!!! Th1s Wednesday night there w1ll be an organ1zat1onal mee11ng for the f1rst Dr Strangelove February 1. 3. 4, and 5 
annual DARBY'S FOLLIES at 12:30 1n Eng1neermg Aud1tor1um :::.o Adm1ss1on 7
Lost. women's Sieko quartz watch lost be­ROOMMATE WANTED-completely fur-Need nde to C1nc1nnat1 Feb. 12·14. Call Rally behind ERA! Contact JEFF 
tween Madeleva and Regma. Call Jod1 LINDHOLM for Information Darby's Place 
mshed apt.· super locale-name your rent Casey at 6256 4714SMC 
and 9·30 p.m. SOCii-L CONCERNS Dave 283-1169 FILM SERIES Maureen.
R1ta Zeller. Hope your birthday is Happy 21st. Have a great Ground Hogsgreat!The celebration w111 contmue 
Day eve. Thanks for be1ng such a great Jeb Cashm and S1mon 
FOUND FOUNTAIN PEN. NE OF 
through the rest of the semester! Love. 
SISter. have had enough. Comedy IS pretty 
LIBRARY. CALL233-7111 OR 232-1803. The Ne1ghbor 
ASK FOR GARY CLIFTON Love. and th1s proves 1t Please g1ve us a break Larry 
and get nd of S1mon!!!! 

FOUND: SIX keys on ring found Monday GIRL SCOUT COOKIE SALE Dining night beh1nd Huddle Call 283-7960 or Hallsor439 Farley. Mon. & Tues.. $1.75a 
MIKE. YOUVE DEFINITELY HAD IT 
BETTER THAN JACK TRIPPER t THE
239-7524 and ask for Barb. box
KEEP SIMON. KEEP SIMON. KEEP OTHER TWO STOOGES 
SIMON 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 1, 1982 -page 9 

junior u•alk-on Debbi Hensleyshrmtsfortu•o as the Irish women in· their tum u•alk ot•er the Warriors, 60-43. See Mark Hannuksela's story• on page /.!. Photo IJy Cberyl Ertelt. 
runsthru February 2~ 
~ .:. 
~­
-· 

E;l>ISON & IRONWOOD 
hair d"iP for the •••n ••1nd w01111n
r------COUPON•----._ ­
1 

Shampoo & Hair cut I 2 for 1Special c~J~~N I 
I I 
1 Bring a friend 2 for $1 0 1L----------COUPON---------J 
@REDI<EN 
C~ll for an appointment with Robb, Joanne or Paul 
HOURS· MON.-8:30-5:00 Th•n..-8:~:30 Fri. 1:30-5:30 
Sal-8:00-4:00 
Phone 234-6767 
llip .md -;an: 

clip .md ""'" dip and"""'' 
LEE'S BBQ FEBRUARY CALENDER 
Open Tuesday thru Thursday 5to 10: 30, weekends 5 to 11 : 30, 
closed Sunday and Monday. 
''Finest ribs in Michiana' • 1132 So. Bend Ave. 
The Observer-Sports 

No. Central rings Belles 
points, and Saint Xavier went on to .\·ports Writer Bdll's did win one half of the cham­take third place in the classic with a pionship game. thl· second-half 40· 
By SARA ZAPPIA said the SMC coad1. In a sense. the 
69·6~ victory. .w. Hailey kd the Cougars with I 7 
The final scort' of a game is notal· Not to take anything away from points, followed by .\1eg Brt'snahan
ways tht' only way to judge thl' succt'ssofa tl·am. Thiswa!>ddinitdy the North Central Cardinals. they with 14. and Mary Haubenreiser thl· cast' in tht' Roundball Classk played well and thdr halann:d with 1~. Tournament held at Saint Mary's An· scoring attack showed that they The Lady Oilers were led hy Cheri gda Athletil: facility this. past have a talented tl·am. Six of the Car· Harrt·r who scon:d I H points. Wet'kend. The four tt·ams partidpat· dinals scored in double ligures. Connit' Ranly. Kathy McGlone and 
Patti Slupecki addl·d I3, 12, and I I 
ing in the Clas!>il', including host Junior Brenda Sanders led hl·r team points respectively.
Saint Mary's, North Cl·ntral. Saint with 20 points. She was followed hy Whether these same teams will go
Xavkr, and Findlay. continuously Kim Wallner, Sheryl finche. and gave thdr tans a lot to chen about. Carnic: Loudcnheck. who addt'd 16, 
at it again next year is not )'l't Although North Central ldt the I4, and 12 points rcspectivdy. ddinitl·, hut Coach Dallasio wants to SMC campus with top honors hy Bonnie Hansen and Joyce Taylor 
play high caliber teams to giVl' his <.Ideating the Belles 92-6H, it took a each chipped in 11. young SMC balkluh some 
ex· llrst half60 percent shooting perti;r. Even though hi!> team defeated 
pericnce. "When we play teams of mann· hy till' Cardinab to hold oft' tht' Bdles by a wide margin. Car· North Central caliber. it ti>rccs us to thl· impresslvt' SMC team. dina! coach Wayne Morgan had no· dig down anti get motivatt'd," said 
After one half of play in the Hnal thing but praise li>r the SMC team. Dallasio. "This tournament has game of the tournament. the Bdles, "Saint Mary's played well. They out· shown ml' that things are beginning who advann·d hy dekating Findlay played us the second-halt;" said Mor· to gd. If we kc:ep this intensity, the rest ofour season will be great."
72·60, wert' down 53·2H to thl· Car· gan. "Thq• are a young team. hut dinals of North Central, who gained thl'y arc tough and very w~ll 
The next tc:st fi>r the Belles will be thdr birth in the t1nal match by coached. I hope we have tht' chance at homt' on Tuesday night against whipping the Cougars of Saint to play them next year in this tourna· 
Goshen College. Xavkr 99·50. ment." Now most pl·ople \\ ould think As for tht' vastly improving Hdll's. that bdng down by 25 points at half they too had a wdl·balanccd attack. timl· would kt all the wind out of a Junior guard Anne Armstrong led 
... Hoops

team's sails. Wl'll, not thl· Belles. S.\1C with 20 points, followl·d hy SMC came out in the second-half junior Mary Pat Sitlington who 
conlinuedjrompage 12
with as much intensity as a coach added 17. Freshman startn Trish could ask ti>r. "We worked the ball Nolan. recently returning to tht· of Gknn Rivt'rs and Michael Wilson wdl and it showed what we are line-up after an injury, chipped in 14 
poured in I 3 and I I. l'apable of doing against a good points. Nolan also pulled down a 
"I couldn't bdkve Marquette's tt·am." stated SMC <:oach Jerry Dal· tt'am high nine rebounds. balanlT," marveled Phelps. .:, lasio. And work well they did, as thl'y In addition to the hustle 
thought they did an excellent joh in playl·d possibly the best st'cond-half demonstrated in the championship getting the hall to the right peopk at of basket hall they havt' all St'ason. game, the teams vying for third place the right time." A rcspt'ctahk 44 percent shoot· also showed great efti1rt and en· Tht· Irish shot just 46 percent ing kq>t the Bclll's rolling through· thusiam. The closest game of the from the floor, as compared to the out thl· Sl'cond·half. while the tournament was the Saturday alter· Warriors' 6"' percent, which was a Cardinals' shooting dropped to ~H noon consolation match-up be· new tl·am record. In addition to pnn·nt. This Cardinal shooting twl'en the Saint Xavil'r Cougar~ and Rucker's I 0 points, guard John Pax· slump plus a good SMC defense kept the Lady Oilers ofFindlay. The batt lc son pumped in I.., and freshman Ron the second-halfscoring even. li>r third place in the Classic went in· Rowan added 16, but ~hot ju~t '·of· At the end of the ganll' the point· to overtime. when findlay College 16 from the Held. sprl·ad wasn't much difflTl'nt from came from hehind to til' the score at What hurt the most, though. was a the Hrst half. hut it was thl· Sl-cond 59·59. with 50 st·conds lett in 1-of-H. h>ur-turnover pt'rli>rmance half Slats that intl·rt·sted coach Dal· regulation time. With :06lett Findlay hy ti>rward Bill Varner. a key pl·rti>r· lasio. "Alter the way we played this had the ball hut was unable to su>n·. mer I(Jr the Irish of latl'. As a whok, half. the only thing that could make In the overtime quartn the Cougar's · the Irish starting front line was out· nv· happier is if we would've won," Eundee Bailey sank the t1rst six scorn! by its Warrior counterparts, 
========================== ~l)-10.
The rebuilding job will not bl· easy for Notre Dame, which is now 6·1 I. The Irish face three national
...leers 

powerhouses (San francisco, UCLA and North Carolina State) in the nl·xt two weeks, and even an NIT bid 
Ron Zukc chipped in a goal each and is looking more remote as each day
continuedfrom fJap,e I 2 
Tt!ch had a ~-I lead going into the passes. 
third period. Well, kgend has it that the Three brand of hoekl'Y that is necessary to Another comeback was not to he 
Littk Pigs triumphed in the end. The lwat a team as dangl·rous as Tech. hoWl'Ver. as the Huskies sealed the Irish may not be so lucky. Allen. who now holds a 12·3 win by piling up ti>ur more goals in IRISIIITEMS: Phelps, as is his cus· n·cord this Sl'ason. shut the door on the last stanza. thaeby strengthen· was when asked about
tom, mum lri~h li>rwards to the tune of 45 ing their hold on third place in the the officiating, which was incom· savt·s, and his teammate~ kept the CCHA. 
pl·tent at best .... "I have no com· sdlout rowd on its feet by hanging The Irish now stand at 9·1 1·2 in 
men! about oftlci~ls," he said in seven goals. the league and l·i·l 2·2 ovnall.\\'ith subtly .... The Irish committed IH Four of the ~l·ven wt·re on Northern :\otichigan and .\tichigan turnovers in the game . . . Mar· 
pownplay opportunites. while the slumping as of late, thl· Irish have an quette is now 14·6 on the year, H· ~ Irish came away with only one man· opportunity to linally escape their on the road .... Revenge timt': San advantagt· score in sevl·n attempts· 
presl·nt seventh place standing and francisco invadt's the ACC on Tut's· wdl hdow their :\0/ prolkil'ncy in 
make a run li>r home itT advantagl· day night at H, in a rematch i>f the that department li>r thl· r•·ar. 
in thl· playofts. .January 12 )""'.';';Don victory. 
_Tuesday 2 
Even-
Tue,. 

$2.50 9 
pitche" 
with a 

16 
dinner 
ALL NIGHT 
~esday 
3 Happy Hour 
5107 S2 pitche" 
10 

·Budwei~er 
Ni)(ht· 2 drafts/ $1 f!IO 10 
17 Molson Ale Night 
75' bottlt· Bto 10 
_]"hursday _ Friday Sa!~ 
/j 
5 
6 

Drah Beer SpL'ci a I 
$I off pitdll'rs of 
Heinekm Ni)(ht 

Molson H!o I 0 2)• draft Hto 9 
$1 aboUI<· 
H10 II

1\0' draft 9!o I 0 
50' draft I 0 1o II 
II 
13 Dillon presents 
12 

I ee's S!. Valentine's 
Wine Michelob Night
Festival

Day Massacre wine specials 75' boule
$3 all you can drink 
all nigh! 

Bto II 9to I 
If! 
19 

20 Pitcher Nigh! 
Labau's Night
Lowenbrau 

$1.50 from Hto' 
$1 boule• 

75' bottle $2.00from 9!o 10 $2.50from 
8to II 

8 to II tOto II 
Prizes 
The lluskies jumped out in front juM two minute~ into thl· contl'St when Tony Stiles hl·at l.aurion with Poulin oil th•· kT ll>r tripping. The Irish picked up their powl·rplay ~t·ort· at the 5:2H mark when John !Iiggins hatted thl· puck into the l·agt· afta a~sists from Rex Bellomy and Kirt Bjork. 
l>espitl· numerous opportunities throughout the game. !Iiggins' goal was the last gasp for the Irish. as AI· len guarded the l·agl· flawlessly othl·rwise Ml·anwhile. Tt'rry and 
••••nnnll•..,••••••un'"''"'''"'nnm~ 
IRocco's Hair Styling ! l531 N. Michigan St.J South Bend Phone-233-4957 
iff

1..........................................................1: 

WANTED Pick-up Notre Dame Rugby Team to play in large invitational St. Patrick's. Day tournament in warm and sunny Pensacola, Florida on March 13. Call Collect Molly McGuire (904) 433-2849 -or­(904) 932-0769 






.\1onday, February 1, 1982 -page 10
The Observer -Sports 

Fencers im.pale Clen1son Tigers 
made up the difference between tht:
responded by whipping Dzin­sabre:: and foil squads' 'l·S marks.
By BILL MARQUARD 

ciclewski 5-I and clinching Notre Dame's tenth straight dual match 
Sports Writer 

Freshman Mike Janis went 2-1 to pace the Irish sabre team, which had
victory dating back to last season. to contend with Clemson all­The Irish football and basketball 
"Our kids fenced like they didn't American Mark Wasserman. 
teams do not have exclusive rights 
know Clemson had three All-Freshman Andrew Quaroni to storybook athletic t1nishes. 
Americans," remarked DeCicco, posted two wins in epee as the Irish 
Aftn aU. when was the last time 
now in his 21st year at the Irish went 3-for-3 against Dzinciekwski 
that either of those teams won a na­
helm. "We managed to get out to a but lost all three bouts to Clemson's tional championship? 
good lead early, and I really feel that other all-American threat jay The Irish fencing team, NCAA tit­
made the difference." Thomas. 
list~ in 1977 and '78, overturned the 
Clemson Tigers 14-1.3 in the ACC 
In other weekt~nd action, the
Friday night with an ending right out The Irish enjoyed a remarakable. 
men's team whipped Purdue 23-4
ofa paperback novel. start in foil, where Jim Thompson, while the women's team, paced by
With the score I.3-1 0, Notre Marc DeJong, and Jaime Collev­
Susan Valdiserri'1-and Sharon
Dame needed to win one more bout Capo each won two bouts en rou~e 
DiNicola's 3-0 records, subdued the
to defeat the perennial national­to a commanding 6-0 Irish lead in Boilermakers 15-1. Saint Mary's, led 
power Tigers for the second time in the weapon. Each of the three lost 
by Eileen Mendez ( 4-0 ), Mary Ann 
as many tries. While the Notre Dame their t1nal bouts, but DeCicco at-
Castaneda ( 4-0) and Twila Kitchin
foil team fought to clinch the match tributed that more to a letdown after (3-0), earned a deci~;ve 14-2 deci­
for the Irish on its own strip, head Harstrom had posted the 14th and sion over Purdue.
coach Mike DeCicco tabbed sopho­deciding win. 
The Notre Dame women went 3·1
"Our foil team was magnificent ­while Saint Mary's notched tour more Ola Harstrom to face Clemson 
aU-American Steve Dzincielewski in they didn't realize that they were 
wins in a five-way match on Satur­
the eighth epee bout of the match. supposed to lose a couple of those 
day. The Irish women are 6-2 on the
Harstrom, who posted an 18-2 bouts," DeCicco said. "Had our foil season.
record during an injury-hampered team lost those three bouts in the 
With t1vc wins in a six-way meet
rookie season last year, had been middle of the match rather than the on Saturday, the Irish men are I 0-0 
end, the momentum could havesidelined by a nagging foot injury 
this season and own a IS-match win­
shifted in Clemson's favor. It workedwhich kept him from practicing un­
ning streak heading into Friday's
out perfectly." showdown with arch-rival Waynetil last Monday. 
The foil team's tina! 6·.3 ledger State in Detroit. "We can't afford to let up at this point," said DeCicco, who guided 
The Gothenburg, Sweden, native 

AFC defeats NFC 
the Irish to an NCAA record 122­match winning streak between 1975 and '80. "We have four exceptional fencers in epee, with Rich Daly,
on final field goal 
Andrew Quaroni, Kevin Tindell and 
Glenn Rivers and Marquette walked over the Irish Saturday night.
Ola Harstrom. We cannot afford to 
Rivers bad 13 points and 7 assists to lead the Warriors. See Chris 
teammate Kellen _winslow. go into another meet -especiallyHONOLl.U I AP ) -Kansas City's 
Needle's story on page 12.
The pass to Wmslow put the ball with Wayne State -and not knowNick Lowen kich.nl a 2:~-yanl field 
Photo by Cberyl Ertelt. 
on the NFC S, and after two running who our top three epeeists are.
goal with three seconds remaining 
Sunday to give the American Foot­plays, Lowery, a second-year pro ============================================= 
out of Dartmouth, made his game-victory over the National Con­
ball Conference a 16-13 Pro Bowl 
winning kick. ference. 
Notre Dame vaults to victory
Fouts also had guided another The kick by Lowery, who earlier long drive that set up the AFC's t1rst had missed an extra point try be­touchdown, a two-yard bur~t by cause ofa bad snap and also missed a 
San Diego's Chuck Muncie midway Oregon native a double victory. '"It 
looked good in the two mile run,.-long field goal attempt, capped a ByALGNOZA
through the third period. Lowery's was a good, solid team effort," Doyle 
breezing past the tape in 9: 16..3.
69-yard drive engineered by San Sports Writer 
missed PAT attt·mpt followed that commentd. "It shows that 
Also aiding the Irish cause wereDiego quarterback Dan Fouts. 
score. everybody's hard work has paid off." 
Greg Bell, jan Kania, Tim McCauley,The NFC, which had won the last Sparked by senior tri-captain Paul Indeed it has. The Irish won ten Andy Dillon, and Ed Juba. Kaniafour NFL all-star games, tied the The NFC had taken a 6-0 Doyle's record setting performance events in racking up 121 points as turned in a second place finish in thecontest 1.3-13 with 2:43 left when halftime lead, with the first of Ever­in the pole vault the Irish track team compared to runner-up Bradley's 600 and ran a good 440 for the vic­Dallas' Tony Dorsett sprinted four son Walls' interceptions setting up coasted to a convincing victory in a 60. Illinois Chicago .Circle was third torious mile relay team.
yards for a touchdown. the score. The Dallas rookie corner­five team meet held at the ACC with 28, Valparaiso fourth with 23 Doyle, who also took a fifth in theBut when the AFC got the ball back picked off a Fouts' throw and Friday night. 
and Loyola ofChicago fifth with 19. 
60 yard dash; is a transfer fromback, Fouts moved his team steadily ran it 12 yards to the AFC four. Mon­Doyle's vault of 16-1 1/4 broke Notre Dame fared especially well Oregon University. Up there theydown the field, completing passes of tana threw to Tampa Bay tight end the old Notre Dame record of IS·7 in the middle distance races with take things very seriously. "Oregon16 yards to Denver's Steve Watson, 9 Jimmie Giles for the touchdown on 3/4 set by Perry Stow in 1979. The Jacques Eady winning the 440 yard put too much emphasis on the de­yards to Cleveland's Ozzie the next play, with I :04 left in the mark, coupled with Doyle's triumph dash, Ron Hyde the 600, and Jim velopment of the athlete, DoyleNewsome and 23 yards to Chargers half. in the long jump, gave the Portland, Moyar the 1,000. The hosts also noted. "Track is just something I en­

swept the top three spots in both the 
joy."880, won by Steve Dziabis, and the On . Friday night Doyle and his mile run, won by Tony Hatherly. 
riends all had fun. Hatherly, a senior from Thunder Bay, Ontario, had surgery performed on his calf last season. He joins two other Irish teammates, sprinter Bill Ribera and vaulter Steve Chronert in successful recoveries from sur: gcry. John .VIcloughan, a senior from Morrissey Hall, turned in a strong performance in capturing the 60 yard high bur-dies. Tim Cannon also
310GXSedan 
select wfront­our ned ·ve 
wheel-j~o. 

ND CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS!!!
oatsun . 
heel-drive e tront-W d lookif19· 10 1S 9°0 nd 
oatsun 3 rntortable a 

Th Application for Activity Fee Funding for 
and co ted To toP
0 ]11" 
ro ' po1n · 
luxuriouslY ap .. ,erful, dura~ 
. 's a po•· that s 
II off. It dlin9 car r 

Y-haf1 n you 2nd Semester, are now available in the 
ble. eas t easY 0' • ced to take I t drive soon. pn ~ kea tes 
wallet. a 

Student Activities Office, 
' 1 • I• lo"l'~ II(<'"~'' 
"t•tlt'fl't'\ 

1st Floor LaFortune. 
l 
Deadline for filing is Friday, February 5 
Decisions will be made the following week. 
.• 



L' 

Ihe~r.=====================================.== 
-------~~ ----~ ----~·­



~~~~~===========================~=o=n=d=a=y,=F=e=b=ru=a=ry==l,=1=9=8=2===p=ag=e=~=tl
Vlolarity \1ichael \1olinelli 

ONLY MY RooH OV~RLDDK5 

MY !Vrxr PXlR NEIC1H~ WHO LIKC5 TO PR£5.5 LP LIK£ A BUNNY EVERY 



friday's Solution 


211182

© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rtghts Reserved 
15 Eastern potentate 16 Staple grains 17 A Gardner 
19 Heron 
20 College teacher, for short 
21 Brick 
carriers 22 Attention­getting 
sounds 

Gaff\'. Tfu(_l<:au 
36 Chaplin nee 60 "Name 24 Singer 
O'Neill that-" Adams 38 Lose color 61 Large 26 -matter 39 Lined stone artery of fact 
40 Flying 
saucer 41 Later 42 Toper 43 Lawyers: 
abbr. 44 Vapor 45 Space 
traveler 47 Wasteland 49 Reduce 

Campus 
• 
.., -9::Hl p.m. -Film, "Dr. Strangdove", Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by Social Con­n:rns, .SO admission 

• 
~-1 I p.m. -Suggestion Desk, Arts and Lel!ers Advisory Council, :\kmoriall..ihrary Concourse;, 

• 
7 p.m.-Film, "An Evening of Silent Comedy", Annenherg Auditorium. Snite Must:um of Art, Sponsored hy Department of Communication and Thl·atre, SI admission 

• 
9 p.m. -Film, "The Big Sleep", Annenherg Auditorium. Snitl' .\tuseum of Art,. Sponsored by Department of Communcation and Theatre, S I ad­mission 


T.V. Tonight · 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. lO:OOp.m. 
l0:30p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
!2:00a.m. 
12:30 p.m. 
16 
22 28 34 46 
16 
22 28 
34 16 
22 28 34 46 22 46 
16 
22 28 34 46 22 22 
34 
46 
34 16 
22 28 34 46 
16 
l2 
28 34 
28 
46 16 
46 
\tASII CBS Nl'ws Ioker's WilLI Thl' :vtat·Nl'ii!Ll'hrl'r Rq)<)rt Thl' .\1innesola Connn·rion All In Thl' l'arnily Family l'l'ud Tic Tat· Dough Strai~-:hr Talk l.ittll" lloUSl' I ln Thl' Praril' \tr. \h-rlin Thai's lnnnlihk Grl'al Pt·rlimnancl's Ll'Sil'r Sumrall Tl'aching l'rivatl' lknjamin lllackwooLI Brothns NBC \1ovit·:"Whl'n A Stran~o~t:r Calls" \1ASII ABC Tht·atrl' of :•tonth: "Pray TV" lll'rnstl'in/BtTthovt·n Today \\'ith Ll'stn Sumrall llousl' Calls Lou (,rant l'rotilt:s in Aml'rican Art 
.Jimmy Swaggart Daily Tom l.ottlt· :'>ll'WSCl'ntt·r I 6 22 E)'l'Willlt'SS Nt·ws :--Jnnwatd1 2H Th .. l>id Can·rr :-.ho" Prai'<· Thl' Lord Tonight Show t)uinl") anLit llan;tcl'l-. All( :'>Jl'W' :--Jightlim· Lapuun,·d All< :--In" All< \l••vie:"l!dwlufthe Ku.td" \lunda)' .'Jight lla'J..'"rhall N<AA Tumornm <.uasr To <.o;t.\t lllal·l..w<Hillllrt>thns 

Today in History 
Tod;l\·'s llighlight in lli,tory: 
In I ')H~. l'ngland's <JulTn Llizaheth I signed a war· rant for the ex,-cution of .\lary. (,.)Ul'l"n ofScob. 
( >n this date: 
In I HlJlJ. the LI.S. !lag wa' raisnl over till' Pacilk is­land of(iuam. whidlli>rrnnly lwd been umkr Spanish control. In 192-l. Britain recogniznl thl· Communist gon-rn· ment of the Sovil'l l Inion. And in 19'"'9. A1·atollah 1-.:homl'ini rcwrnnl to Iran alll'r more than l·t ~T;1rs of l'Xik. 
Ten years ago. Egyptian l'rl·sident Anwar Sadat prepared pared to lly to .\loscow to Sl'l'k mon· military goOlb. and Soviet support filr Egypt's preparation for a war against lsrad. 
Five years ago. l'residl·nt <:art,·r told a Soviet envoy 
that the llnited Stall'S would not hack down on its 
committml·nt for strl·ngtiH·nnl human rights in the 
Soviet [Inion and dsewhne. 
Onl' year ago, l.l-ch \X"aksa. the head of thl· inde­IX'ndent Polish labor union Solidarity said the govnn­ment linally had Sl'tlt rl·pres,·ntatives to talks with a larml·rs' union. And Solidarily announcnl the cancd­lation of a onl·-hour nationwide strike that h01d hl'l"n sdwdukd lilr thl· lll'Xt day. -AP 
• 
.. 
62 Additional 63 Yoked field 
workers 64 Magnificent 65 Duad 66 Skin 
opening 67 Type of drum 68 Probabil­ity 69 Alps, e.g.: abbr. 
DOWN 1 Course 2 -Haute 3 Portion out 4 Chopped 5 Melville 
novel 
6 Certain hog's posi­tion 
7 Rub out 8 Confront 9 Where to 
skim the cream 28 Oaf 

30 Tardy 
31 Brain· 
storm 32 Skin: comb. 
form 33 Pacific 34 Malaria 
symptom 35 Dramatis 
personae 37 Proboscis 41 Italian 
wine town 43 Coach Parseghian 46 Monastery 
resident 48 Changes 50 Pace 52 Pleasingly 
plump 53 Sluggish 54 Heredity 
factors 55 Droops 56 Rent 57 Region 59 Waterless 

The Time is Now! 
A·t ~tcations are now available for next year's Student Union Director and Comptroller inS. U. Office. Must Be Submitted by Feb. 11. 


-
ATTN: Allthose who are holding receipts for the American Ballet Theatre. 
Tickets are now available at the Student Union Ticket Office to be tradedforyourpurchased receipts. 
Alltickets that are notpicked up by 5:00pm Thursday, Feb. 4, will be forfeited. This isfor both Fri. & Sat. ticket-holders. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
\1onday, February 1, 1982 -page 12
S~orts 
Irish scalp Warriors . • • 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
Take away the first eight and the last four minutes of Saturday's 

,. women's basketball game at the ACC, and you have yourself a good old fashioned blow out. 
Add those 12 minutes, and you have your run-of-the-mill 17-point win, 60-43, Notre Dame over Mar­quette. 
Kansas City, Mo., freshman Carrie Bates again came off the bench to lead Notre Dame in scoring. Bates scored I 3 points, and would have had more if a couple of layups had dropped. 
Classmate Mary Beth Schueth, one ofa handful of Irish women bat­tling colds, and junior Shari Matvey had the same problem -missed shots from dose range -that limited their offensive outputs to 12 and I 0 points. 

• As a team, Notre Dame shot slight­ly under its seasonal average, hitting 29-of-60 from the floor for 48 per­cent. 
"We should have shot 60 per­cent," said Irish Coach :vlary DiStanislao. "We missed like six or seven shots that normally drop for us." 
DiStanislao's dub threatened to make a game of it at the outset, fal­ling behind by six, 12-6, after the first eight minutt·s. 
One of .\1ary D's I7 substitutions turned the Irish fortunes around. Senior captain :vlissy Conboy en­tered the game at the 12:04 mark of the first halt; and sparked a 12-2 spurt that enabled Notre Dame to go up by t(mr, I8-14, with five and a half 

>minutes remaining. 
Although she did not score in her six-minute stint, Conboy handed out a pair ofassists, including one feed to a wide-open Bates that tied the score at 12-12, had one steal and helped Laura Dougherty get another on a doublc.:-team, and forced a couple of jump balls. 
"With the important part of our season coming up," said DiStanislao, "Missy knows that she has to be ready to come off the bench and produce for us like she did Saturday. Actually, that's one of the reasons I did so much subbing -we'll need to have a productive bench if we get into a post-season tournament." 
When Conboy left the Irish lineup, her hustling attitude didn't, and her teammates answered a pair of ,\llarquette free throws with four straight buckets to end the half with a I 0-point lead. 
The Warriors never threatened seriously after that, as they could come no closer than 13 points, 30­
I 7, early in the second half. 
Notre Dame's lead eventually reached 29 points, 60-31, with just under four minutes remaining in the game. But, as DiStanislao said, at that point "our attack ended -we just let up." 
Marquette scored the game's final 
12 points. 
"Things got a little sloppy there at the end," DiStanislao said. "We were throwing passes where they shouldn't have been thrown. 
"It was a better game than Thursday (when the Irish edged Ball State 60-57 despite a sluggish perfor­mance)," she added. "Ball State came ready to play, and they gave us more of a challange than Marquette did. :vlarqu~:tte doesn't have the talent that Ball State has, and we also weren't as grossly offour game as we were the other night. The game was disappointing, though, from the standpoint that we were ready to meet a challange and we didn't get one." 
In the finals of the Dial Classic in St. Paul, .\"linn.. thr~:e weeks ago, the Irish and Warriors met in what would become a I3-point Notre Dame victory. According to .VIar­quette Coach Tat Shiely, there wasn't much difference between the two games. 
"Everything they did to us today, they did to us then," she said. "I thought we did a great job defensively -for us to hold them to 60 points on their home floor, when they scored 50 on a n~:utral floor is just great." 
Shiely also singled out the play of Matvey ("Her inside game has im­proved dramatically since she's been her~:,") and freshmen forwards Schueth and Ruth Kaiser. The three make up Notre Dame's starting front line, and Saturday accounted for over halfofthe team's 30 rebounds. 
Game honors in both scoring and rebounding went to .VIarqu~:tte's Julie Skvers who, not surprisngly, has been the Warriors' seasonal leader in both departments as well. 

..leers, Huskies split series overUJeekend 
By MICHAEL OLENIK scoring picture when he beat Huskie Sports Writer netminder Tom Allen after getting a pass from Poulin to give the Irish 
Notre Dame's hockey team their first lead of the series. rebounded from its worst defeat of After Tech responded with a goal the season on Friday night to record of their own exactly one minute a 5-3 win on Saturday afternoon later, Rothstein put the Irish on top against the Michigan Tech Huskies for good with his second score ofthe on the Upper Peninsula. aft~:rnoon with no other than Poulin 
Keeping the previous night's 7-1 on the assist. lashing in mind, the Irish overcame a Joe Bowie finished the scoring at 2-0 deficit to score four goals in the the 8:3'i mark of the final period and second period and one in the third in doing so gave the Irish a solid win 
-to gain a split with a pownful Huskk after a shakey performance the night club. before. Having a hand in each ofthe Notre Poulin had to share the spotlight Dame goals was the streaking Dave on Saturday with Irish goaltend~:r Poulin. After Tech had picked up a Bob \1cNamara-a rare pt'rt(Jrmer goal in the first pt'riod on a fine play this year who was called on to by Bill Terry and added a second just replace a slumping Dave Laurion. :21 into the second stanza, the The move paid off t(>r Coach Ldty senior co-captain went to work. Smith and his team as McNamara At the :28 mark, Poulin fed turned in a fine effort in stopping 23 linemate Bill Rothstein for a score to Huskie shots. put the Irish on the board and into The story on Friday was very dif­the game. Two and a half minutes ferent however, as the Irish ran into later, Poulin picked up his 23 goal of another freshman goalie standout the year with assists going to jeff while failing to play the defensive Logan and Rothstein. 
Sievers reached her 17-point scoring average on five-ot~eight shooting from the floor and seven­of-! I from the foul line. 
She also pulled down I 0 rebounds, but DiStanislao's club did a good job of shutting down the junior forward in the second half, limiting her to just four points and four rebounds. 

The win, Notre Dame's 13th in 16 games, was the ninth straight for DiS­tanislao's club, and the sixth straight in the ACC. Those six straight wins tic: another school record set over two seasons ( 1977-78, 78-79 ). The Irish will get a chance to break that mark Wednesday, February I 0 when Taylor University invades. 
"The important thing now," DiS­tanislao said, "is to look down the road to our February schedule. We have to start developing some real consistency or our season will be over before we know it." 
IRISH ITEMS From the "Everybody's a Comedian" catagory: Notre Dam~: took the floor for yes­terday's practice session with just nine healthy players, and a kw of those wer~: still battling colds. DiS­tanislao was forced to run a press­break drill f(>ur-on-five, and was in the process of doing so when an un­expected visitor of. the canine per­suasion strutted on to the arena floor, bringing DiStanislao's explana­tions to a halt and giggles from some of her players. As the jet-black beast made its way across the tloor to the press table where sat the phones from the various radio broadcasts of Saturday's men's game, junior guard Debbie Hensley said ;,There's our number five," (a position-in the drill), prompting .VIary D to remark "Naw, he just has to use the phone." 
Practice resumed after the dog made its call. 


• • . Warriors scalp Irish 
By CHRIS NEEDLES matchup (zone defenses) that Notre Sports Writer Dame plays, and I think it payed off for us." 
Like a house of cards in a Raymonds felt that the inside windstorm, Notre Dame finally col-game was the key to his team's vic­lapsed Saturday night. tory. "We felt we had to get the ball 
One by one, each card had been inside," he said. "I don't think many put carefully in place -San Fran-other teams were able to do that cisco, Davidson, Villanova, against Notre Dame, because .VIaryland, Idaho and .\!Iaine. All were they've been playing pretty good impressive, gutsy performances by defense." the outmanned Irish, and gave Marquette used its sharpshooting everyone the impression that NO to gain a 42-29 halftime lead, and had turnt:'d the corner. then kept on rolling in the second 
But along came the big, bad War-half. Nine consecutive points gave riors of .VIarquette to huff and puff the Warriors its largest lead, 20 and blow away the fatigued Irish, 70-points (51-31 ), with I 5 minutes left. 62, at the ACC. It wasn't that dose. But the never-say-die Irish clawed 
Notre Dame, understandably, was back to within ten at 'i'i-4'i with five 
tired, playing its fourth game in minutes remaining, thanks mainly to 
St:'Ven days. "Wt:' tried to make a run bdeagured forward Cecil Rucker. 
there at the end," said Irish coach The 6-8 sophomore, who reportedly 
Digger Phdps, "but we just ran our sat out a one-game suspension on 
ofgas." Wednesday night for cutting a class, 
The resemblance between this came off the bench to add 10 points 
one and last .VIonday's Idaho classic and I 0 key rebounds, many in the 
was uncanny, at lc.:ast in th~: first half. second half, to keep ND within 
.VIarquette shot the lights out, hitting shouting distance. 
84 percent from the floor in the That was as dose as the Irish 
opening 20 minutes. could get, as they missed countless 
But, whereas the Idaho classic was opportunities to draw closer with an Raiders of the Lost Ark material, endless ·string of turnovers and Saturday's game was about as well-miss~:d shots -the same bugaboos script~:d as Tarzan, the Ape ,~Jan. that caused their 2-9 start this 
The Warriors put the game away season. early, thanks to a 19-4 spurt in a five-"I thought we could make a run at minute span ofthe tlrst half. Forward them," said Phelps. "but we couldn't Terrell Schlundt scored eight points come through on our opportunities in that stretch, all of them from 12 to score. I didn't feel we could press feet or less. them (because of \1arquette's quick­
"I don't think we could play any ness), so we went to the foul­better than we did in the first half," shooting routine. They missed them said Marquette coach Hank for us, but we couldn't capitalize on Raymonds. "We worked very hard that, either." 
center Dean Marquardt, giving him a team-high 16 points, put the game out of reach at 59-45 in the final minutes. For Marquardt, a high school All-American who never has lived up to his press clippings in his four seasons at Marquette, it was a vindication ofsorts. 
It is a miracle that the 6-9 Mar­quardt is still even playing basket­ball. Two summers ago, he was involved in an auto accident that killed a female companion. Mar­quardt didn't fare much better-13 broken ribs, a compound fracture of the arm, and two collapsed lungs. 
"All these critics that I've had about Marquardt," said a perturb~:d Raymonds. "They say he can't play and everything. Well, I think they found out tonight that the kid can play basketball." 
All five Marquette starters tallied in double figures, paced by Mar­quardt's 16 points. Forwards Schlundt and .VIan: .VIarotta hit for 12 and I I, respectively, while the lightning-quick guard combination 
See HOOPS, page 9 

INSIDE 
Fencing p. 10 Track p.lO SMC Hoops p. 9 
... 
ii..~L~o~g~a~n~t~h~t:'~n~g~(~Jt~~in~t~o~t~h~e~g~o~al~........Sieie..IC._EiRiSi,ipiaig~ei9._._._._._~«~>r~t~w~(~J~d~a~}~'s~·~a~g~a~in~s~·t~th~ei'~2~-~~i·~a~n~d~..~F~o~u~r~st~r~a~ig~h~r~p~(~Ji~n~ts~·~b~}~'i~~,a~r~r~i(~Jr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


