
Fieldhouse ­
VOL X\'11, NO 11 ,:\ tlu.: mlkpl ndult ..rmknt ne\\ ...paper ~rnng notre-ll.Une .mu :o..tll\1 m.tn ·., fRIDAY. MAIH 11 1 1 19tH 

Denying educational loans 
Judge bars enforcement of'law 
ST. PAVL, !\'linn. ( AP) -A federal spokeswoman Joan Lamb said the We simply added a qualification for judge yesterday barred the govern­agency would have no official com­student aid. There are some 27 ment from enf{)rcing a law that ment until it had a chance to review qualifications." would lkll} education loans to stu­the ruling. Alsop's ruling is binding in Min­dents who have not registered tor Following passage of the law, the nesota and will set a precedent for the draft. Department of Education an­other judges around the country, 
Saying the law was "likely" to vi­nounced in January rules for carry­said Dan Lass. an attorney for the olate students' constitutional rights ing out the measure. The rules were Minnesota Public Interest Research against selfincrimination. U.S. Dis­to take elfect in May and apply to stu­Group, which brought the t:as.·. The trict Judge Donald D. Alsop issued a dent loans for the 1983-84 school ruling, he said, is the first on the law. preliminary injunction in a lawsuit year. The plaintiffs in the case are six that draft resisters and educators In Washington. Rep. Gerald B.H. students -identified only as John viewed as a national test case. Solomon, R-N.Y., author of the re­Doe. Richard Roe, Paul Poe, Bradley 
One of the parties to the suit, the quin:ment linking student aid to Boe, Carl Coe and Frank Foe ­Minnesota Civil Liberties Linion, said draft registration, said that if the in­represented by the Minnesota Civil it would ask Alsop to set a date tor a junction becomes permanent, the Liberties L:nion and MPIRG. hearing at which it would seek to Selective Service System would ap­The students are sophomores and have the injunction made per­peal it, and he• felt confident the law juniors who have received financial manent. would be upheld. aid and would be unable to attend 
The suit challenged the law "It isn't a question of incrimina­college in the future without federal signed by President Reagan last Sept. tion," he told a reporter. "No one is 
8. It required male students applying being found guilty without a trial. see LAW, page4 for tuition assistance to disclose whether they had registered tor the draft. and prohibited them from receiving any federal assistance un· 
Policy changes made 
~.:~~ thev had done so. ·· h tako no great stretch ofthe irn· agination to discern how plaintiffs 
in co-ex n1eal plan
themselves as non·registrants could 
provide a significant link in the chain By TIM BUCKLEY availahle, but we are now ahle to of evidence tending to establish News Staff verity that the students who obtain their guilt," Alsop wrote in his 26-the pass will actually use it by ill­page opinion. Because of abuses in the co­validating their student l.D. in the 
"Enforcement ofa law likely to he exchange meal pl;l.n (co-ex) he­Validine system for that evening's tuund unconstitutional is not in the tween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, meal," Hickey said. 
public interest," Alsop wrote. "The the distribution point for the co-ex Linder ;he old system, any Nvtre court finds that the public interest dining cards will be moved to the Dame student on the meal program weighs in favor ofthe issuance ofthe 
Food Services office in the South could go to the Student Union office, preliminary injunction sought hy Di Ining Hall. sign his or her name and I.D. number the plaitiffs." Students wishing to have dinner.at to a list, and obtain a card to eat din­
In Washington, Selective Service Saint Mary's can obtain a co-ex there ner at St. Mary's. during office hours. "Last week Margaret Linhart, secretary at the we became more aware of the level Student Union said that she" did not o!'program ahuse by off-campus stu­have time to pre-screen each stu­dents," said William Hickey, Direc­dent. I asked them if they were on tor of Food Sales. "We received the meal plan, the students signed 
(from St. Mary's food Service) out, then I sent the sign-out sheet to materials where studenh had coun­the Registrar's office." Frequently, 
$110 million aid increase requested 
solution in El Salvador instead of a terfeited the cards." more than I00 cards were dis­Reagan. setting the stage t(;r J fie•ce Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras and political settlement. Hickey also learned that students tributed on a daily basis. 'battle in Congr~es, requested s I I o· Belize. Reagan proposed that S60 million on the meal program were obtaining "Until recently, the cards had million in increased militarv aid yes­Reagan said a guerrilla victory in 
WA~IIINGTON (AP)-Presi...:ent ditional economic assistance for El 
of El Salvador's increased military c•-ex cards, and giving them to off. heen available 'til around 3," Linhart terday for El Salvador and :.ugge~ted El Salvador would spread revolution aid be taken from monev already all­c: rnpus students while they con­said. "This semester, by noon, they 
ocated for worldwide militan· assb­tmued to eat at Notre Dame.
he will send in more l'.S. adviser~ if to Guatemala. Honduras and Costa 
tance programs. .''The same number of cards are see CO-EX, page 4 Reagan said leftist guerrillas have Panama. the canal and :vtexico. 
seized the initiative in the emhanled l'ltimately at stake. he said. is the Central American nation after three security of the l'nited State~. years ofhloody civil war. While pledging not to send t:.s. Tavern shut down 
"How bad is the milirarv situa­forces into combat. Reagan said "the tion?" Reagan asked. "It is not good " number ofU.S. trainers in El Salvador will depend upon the resources 
the money is not approved in full. Rica and incrt:a~c the threat to 
Woman brutally raped in bar 
On Capitol Hill, Speaker Thomas available" from Congress. 
P. O'Neill said Reagan's request was A senior administration official, NEW BEDFORD, :vtass. (AP) -said desk officer Henry Nichols. patron a dime to call the police, but in trouble. "I don't see the votes speaking on condition he not he Workmen using a chainsaw yester­"They were very, very mad. They the customer dialed a wrong num­
around here at the present time identified. explained that it costs 1 0 day dismantled a blue collar har said they should hang the suspects." ber. ...He's going to have to do a lot of times more to train Salvadoran units where police say a woman was Rita !\1oniz. a leader of the protest Asked why none ofthe I 0 patrons selling," O'Neill said. in the l'nited States than in their repeatedly raped by four men on a coalitio, said the closing of the bar . in the bar tried to help the woman, 
Reagan's request will likely own country. pool table as other patrons cheered: "unfortunately, is not going to stop Cabral said: "They were scared. provide the focus for a debate over He said that if Congress cuts the Big Dan's tavern was shut down rapes in New Bedford. We weren't Everybody said they were afraid to the l'.S. role in El Salvador and requested funds, the training would Wednesday after the owner's sister protesting that particular bar as do anything for fear they would get demands that U.S. aid be linked to a have to he conducted in El Salvador, voluntarilv turned over its license to much as we're showing our beaten up." requirement that the Salvadoran and that prohahly would require the city's Licensing Board. Yester­outrage." The woman finally hr ':-: free and government seek a negotiated sending more L.S. advisers there. day, a sign on the door read "This According to police, the rape ot:­ran out, still naked from the waist settlement of the war. Currently, the adminbtration has place b closed," as workers cleaned curred Sunday night after a 2I-year­down. She flagged down a car, and 
In a speech to the :'llational As­a self-imposed ceiling of ';'; on the out furniture, cut up the bar, and old woman went into th~t bar to buy the driver took her to a telephone sociation of !\'lanufacturer~. Reagan number ofadvisers. remo\:ed tables, chairs and the pool a pack of cigarettes and stayed to ~here she ,~~ll~g_ P9lic~. She ":a~ said the countries of Central The s 1 I 0 million in increased ,.table. have a drink with a friend. When she treated at Pai\:wood Hospital and' America "are in the midst of the funds for El Salvador would he in ad­Despite the closing, a coalition of tried to leave, a man grabbed her and released.· \ gravest crbis in their history." diton to S26 million already ap­women's groups in this southeastern dragged hn to a pool table, where Four men were ch~rged with rape 
In addition to seeking more proved. :vtassachusetts city announced plans she was repeatedly raped for at least in the case and were released ori money tor El Salvador, Reagan Discussing the military situation to stage a candlelight march on City two hours. Sl,OOO bail each. District Attorney 
proposed increa~ing military aid by in El Salvador. Reagan said the guer­Hall next Monday to protest the "It is our inturmation that at least R\!nald A. Pina said he would s4:ek a total of S20 million for Honduras. rillas have taken ad\·antage of rape. Also,the switchboard at the some of the men were watching and indict:nents against them next Costa Rica and Panama Canal shortages of supplies and trained of­New Bedt{)rd police station has been cheering," said police Sgt. Ronald R. week. secutitv -bringing the total re­fleers among government forces. jammed with calls from people Cabral. licensing Board Chairman quest for thi~ year to S39 million. Reagan dismissed criticism that expressing anger over the attack. Cabral said the bartender, Carlo • 
He also sought s 16H million in ad-the Lnited States favors a military "The phone was ringing all night," Machado, told police he gave a see RAPE, page 4 
.. 
Friday, March 11, 1983 -page 2

NewsBrieh 
Ry The Ubserl'l'r and The Associated Press 
A tangled net ofbureaucracy destroyed the 
Campus I ife Council's attempt to secure use of the varsity weight room for all students. The council passed an amendment at its meeting Monday night that guaranteed use of the weight room for any student who received permission from Father John Van Wolvlear, vice president for student affairs, beforehand. \'an Wolvlear. however, believes that this is not his area. said l.loyd Burke, student body president. The use of the weight room falls un· der Father Joyce's jurisdiction. Because \'an Wolvlear cannot grant permission without Joyce's consent, "the amendment, in effect, has no power," said Burke. The council discussed other issues, but no· thing was finalized. The housing lottery was not discusst·d. -Tbe Observer 
The Student Unionacademic commi~sion i~ pleased to announce the upcoming economic debate between George <iii· der. architect of Reaganomics, and neo·liberal, Robert Reich. The e\'ent will take place on March 29. at Hpm. in the Library Auditorium. Topic to be announced. -Tbe Obserr•er 
Robert Gordon, vice president h1r Advanced Studies at Notre Dame. has been elected a tru~tee of the lniversities" Research Association, ( CRA ). a consortium of research universities which operates the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory at Batavia, Ill. under contract with the L:.s. Department of Energy. Gordon's three· year term will begin during the L RA hoard of trustees meeting next week in Washington. D.C. Notre Dame's high energy physics research group recently completed an experiment at the Fermi Lab and has another scheduled to begin in l9H';. -Tbe Obsert•er 
Junior Class elections are being investigated by a tlve-member Judicial Board committee. Judicial Chairman Kevin Stierer said the results ofthe investigation will be announced at next Monday's meeting of the Student Senate. Candidate John Decker al­leges that several people were prevented from voting in the close race because of a shortage of ballots. Decker missed the run-off by four votes. -Tbe Obsen•er 
It's taking two, pregnant half-~isters to fill the 
hooves of Elsie the Borden cow. put out to paMure because of agt· and the many miles she's traveled to exhibits throughout the nation. But a Borden Inc. official said. "There is only one Elsie" in the pair. "Even an actor has a stand-in." he said, noting that the cow Bordt:n considers to be the true Elsie was at a trade ~how in Chicago this week. Last week the new pair of Jerseys arrived at the Ohio State L:niversity farms ready to beco:ne the corporate mascor~ l(Jr the Columbus-based Borden. The new Elsie and her sister were purchased from Richmond, Ind.. farmer Ronald Stanley. whose wik said the calves are expected injul). The cows are ··real nice, friend· ly," said OSll herd~man Andy Spring. "They get along with tht: other~ tine." The retired Eisie is I0 years old, Spnng said. and was getting a little sick and hard to manage. A Borden ~poke~man said the former Elsie, about the I~th in a line of cow~ Mretching hack to 1959. ha., retired to the farm ofa Borden employee. The spokesman would not say where she is spending her retirement. "She's rt·tin·d and wants to live out her life in peace," he said. -AP 
Researchers at Orange County I Cl medical 
Center will study .~00 volunteers tor a year to evaluate a drug that they say may control or perhaps cure herpes. The drug was developed by Newport Pharmaceuticals International in Newport Beach. which is paying for the study in hopes of winning kdcral approvall(Jr the medicine. The drug. known gt:nericallv as inosiplex. works hy boosting the patient"s immune ~vstcm. said Dr. Lionel Simon of:-.lewport Pharmaceuticals. ""This is one of the.h1g hopes we have in controlling herpes." said Dr. David .\Iiller. who will do the study with Dr. William H. Wickett Jr. There are two tvpes of herpes. which is caused by a virus and is now incurable and highlv con· tagious. Type 1 generally causes ~orcs on the lips. mouth or face. while type 2 usually causes sores in the genital area. -AP 
Federal agents seized 105 parrots at a tuxurious Houston home and charged the couple living there with smuggling the birds in from Mexico. Ventura :-.latalia.Johnston. 11. and her hus­band, David Lawrence Johnston. -15. on \Xedncsda1· were ordered held in lieu of S';O.OOO bond hv I".S. .\lagistrate !'rank Waltermire. The birds, including a Scarlet .\'lacaw valued at S-t.OOO. were found Tuesday in cages "in the garagt:. in the bedrooms. under the bed."" said U.S. Fish and Wildlife Sen·ice special agent David Klein/.. lie said the parrots were brought to the l"nited States from :-.lun·o Laredo after being captured in Mexican jungles. They were transported to Houston several days ago. a trip that contributed to the death of 2 I birds. he said. The birds will he sold later ifthey are frt't' ofdiseast:.­
.4P 
Cloudy and cool Friday. High in mid and upper ~Os. Partly cloudy and cold Friday night. Low in mid and upper 20s. Partly sunny and mild Saturday. High in upper 50s and low ·llls. -AP 
Father Ted and Mom Roemer 


Spring Break! After suffering through another round of tests and papers, the timt: to relax finally arrives. 
Yet, for numerous students planning to stay on campus next week. vacation fun may he hampered by the lateM directive issued by Dean of Students James Roemer: 
"Parietal bours during tbe .\jJring Break remain tm­cbunged: midnigbt on Sunday tbrougb Tbursdt~}' nigbts and 2 a.m. on Frida}' and Saturday nigbts." 
The expressed purpose of midnight visitation hours during weekdays (as opposed to 2 u. m.) is to insure dorm quiet hours during a time when swdcnts may lw sleeping or studying. However, considering that no stu· dents must wake up in the morning for cia~ ·s and that the number of dorm residents will ,e greatly diminished. the shortened weekday parietals lose their relevance. 
In fact, since parietals were creatnl to "facilitate per­sonal and social development and to enhance the: 
Jeff Harrington 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Friday 
said Roemer. In other words, no new ground rules were being made; this was merely a clarification of the al­ready t:xisting rules stated in DuLac. 
Thus, perhaps the root of the problem lie:. not in the execution of the rules by the Dean of Student!>. but rather in the basic rules themselves. 
l :nder the auspice~ of student benefit. the Ad­ministration continually plays a parental role in our lives. Many Notre Dame students can endure four years of "adulthood" here without ever confronting the nor­

quality of life on campus:· mal living situation~ of according to DuLac, one cooking their own meals, wonders if the best time: to cleaning their clothe~. and promote social develop­even straightening their ment is not during Spring rooms. Ingrained in the ND Break -a time when the likstyle is a protective at­world of academia is tt·m· titude which forces students porarily l(Jrgotten. to feel like little kids -con­
Although the question of stantly answering to Univer­midnight parietals during sity restriction~ on when break may not seem to be a they can drink. when and crucial, earth-shaking issue. whom they can visit. . ... it does point to a deeper Even students paying their dilemma: when do rules and own way do not have the rt:gulations geared toward freedom to decide for them­assuring student welfare selves when to attend class, become outright infringe­due to the University's "no ments upon student liberty? more than three absences" 
Several disciplinary rule. releases have recently come Some restrictions on stu­out of the Office of the Dean dent behavior relate directly 

of Students -from a warning against blasting "loud music" out dorm windows to a ''respectful request" to stay off campus lawns. 
Noting that he is only enforcing laws already written into the DuLac constitution, Roemer stresses making a distinction between directives and bulletins: "While directives are statements of official University policy, 
bulletins are more informational," he said. The recent bulletins on noise control and maintaining the lawns, therefore, are merely "requests" from the Ad­ministration. 
Roemer specitkd that only two directives have been issued this school year: an announcement of University policy on alcohol use, and regulations concerning visitors during home football weekt:nds. He termed most directives.as "repetitive ...a minor part of my duty." 
Although announced as a directive, the announce­ment of Spring Brt·ak rt:gulations was "only a bulletin." 
The Observer 
BREAK-ING UP 

!Je.'iiJ.!.Ill:'ditor.. Tun "~outh lh.·ml..,am" ~tTl~ fJesJ~nA.'isJstanl .. <.arolc "\tannc.."•..ota'' · .. -no london" Cl.uk 
l.ci}'OUI \fa}}.. .. .. Alrc..·.ttl~ l.dl Trpesellers HcggH: .. ~ .. l>amc..·l Ai"(,oinJ.1. B." k 'J o \11.tnu·· \itna!"> \'eu•.•; l:'tlilnr \ ac "( Jtllllg no\vherc..·" '\<.:JUIJi 
CojJ)' l:'tlllor ...  .t..  arol ·· Ah I .U\ Yew.  
Ikw..,ton" C.tmp  
Ft.>atures l.at•uut.  ~.trah ··< ,,tn.kn ~tatt·"  
llanlllton"  
l.'fltlurials /.aJ•oul  Tari ''I'Ill (roing to  

l.o\<.' ~out h lkJHJ' Brown \port..; <.npv /:'tlilor. \ltkl· · '\( .:\.\" H. a· 
<.:arda \'f) nav l:'t/Jtor Tun Pc..·ttcr.., \.liC !Jar Htlitor. BrH<.T "~(J 1 Lll·ortww" 
!lakin 
TJ•fJists .\1onica "llt:llu, <.olumhu~" ( ruglc: PboloKrajJh£•r.. Pete..· & ·"cott (,'u£•st.·lf•fJearances \lary ''l>iXJ<.'-hound" 
~~l'~t·r 
<.hn!"> "\\ lu:rt·,cr the.· NCAA put.., u:-." ' ~C..'t'dl<.· ... \take..· "llopdully in Athcn!">,(,a" ~ullivan .1 P "Bah.una..," llt:otly (,ritt and l>arh~ alwa~ !">around 
.-\rt1M k Chll' Thc Bont·lu:ad!-.-~<mc..· h>rc..·vt:r Briglu<m-h<lund I>J.av<.· One IOUJ.::h ( .ookH· 
The Observer 1 USPS 5~8 9201 •·· publiShed Mondav thr,ugh Fr1day and ~..'n hL~~ne t,-;utball ·sdturdnys except durtng exan1 and Vt:il cillon ppqods The Observer IS publiShed oy the ;tucJents of Notre Da•ne dnd Sclmt Mdry 5 Col lege Subswpt1ons may oe pure nased lor $25 per year tS 15 per se•nPsterJ by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Da•ne lndldn" 46556 
The Observer ., a me•nb<er >I The Associated Press "'' rep•uJuc:-t,>n nghts are reserved Second class pustdge pc<•d dt Notre Dame ln.:llilna 46S~6 
to the social problem afflicting the campus. Parietab. lack of social space, and abolition of section parties all discourage social interaction. Out of the mindser of "always being told what to do," ND males are afraid to call up women for a date. Is that healthy? 
In the long run, the only way for the Administration to promote student welfare is to entrust the young adults on campus with more responsibility. The problem!-> students will encounter in tht: real world are destined to intensit)· unlt'ss they starr adjusting to mature responsibility now. 
Notre Dame is obligated to guide students. not rule their live~ likt: an overprotective mother, lilr the only way to hecomt: a re~ponsible person is to tlr~t he given the freedom to make mi~takes. The painful trial period ofadolescence i~ a necessarv process; thus. our l"niH·r· sity "part:nh'" should hack ;m.·ay t(Jr awhile -the test of time will thank them. 

r-m~~;;~;-nr~;m;rt;1 
I •.· Haircut, Shampoo, I
,A 
I r ~· ~~t .• Blow Dry, & Condition I I ·· ~.....-Reg.$15 I 
54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. 
IAcross from Martin's on St. Rd.23 NOW $B .50 WITH COUPON I 
1 H . I $S I
Tues. Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 
I alrcut on y
Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 c~~:~NI 
272-0312 277-1691 I
HA/RMUSTBEWASHEDDAYOFCUT 

..----------------
COLLEy·s SPORTSWEAR 
1813 S.lronwood, South Bend 219-234-6149 


·~-~~ ;·~,u~~t!rness,wc~~kP ~\ 
team. special 
I 
event, promotion, fraternity, or sorority." 
•Custom Screen Printing T·shirts, sweat 
shirts, award jackets &caps 
Discounts on quantities 
LW.W. 
Mish
LW.W. S.B. 
R.R. 
a 
:lE
" 
g_ 
~ h,--------1 ~­
* 
Ironwood VillageSouth 

-------------·-------------­
The ObserYer 
Accusations against EPA, Burford mount 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­gressmen sought to wipe out a con­tempt of Congress charge against Anne McGill Burford on yesterday, and the woman who quit as chief of the Environmental Protection Agency maintained she had "a solid record ofachievement" in managing the troubled agency. 
But new accusations continued to emerge involving the EPA, including one that Mrs. Burford -and the White House -received a report outlining alleged conflicts of inter­est by one agency official more than a month before he withdrew from his post. Mrs. Burford also allegedly continued to consult the official 0~ sensitive issues after learning of the accusations against him. 
And at least one subcommittee chairman investigating EPA said Congress should wait before "purging" Mrs. Burford's record before congressional investigators receive documents on the agency's S1.6 billion "superfund" program promised by the White House. 
It was Mrs. Burford's refusal -at President Reagan's orders -to turn over those documents that led to the contempt charges against her. 
House members who voted for contempt argued on yesterday that Mrs. Burford never wanted to defy Congress by withholding the docu­ments. They said she was being a "loyal soldier," who stuck with her president and suffered the conse­quences ofhis decision to invoke ex­ecutive privilege. 
Mrs. Burford told a packed news conference, meanwhile, "We have a solid record of achievement that will stand the test of time." She said her resignation, which Reagan ac­cepted Wednesday, resulted from concern for the future of the EPA. 
Refusing to blame anyone for her predicament, Mrs. Burford said, "I never claimed to be a victim, and I won't now." 
But she added, when asked about the pressure of relentless news coverage, "It is difficult to lead a nor­mal life when there are people camped outside your front yard and following you throughout the day." 
Mrs. Burford said she looked for­ward "to serving the administration in any ~apacity" and added that events had not changed her opinion of Reagan, whom she called "a fine man." 
"He has a fine commitment to the environment," she said. "I'll be proud to work for him at any time." 
pledging to restore public faith and to "get this agency back to work." Hernandez, Mrs. Burford's top aide, was named acting administrator af­ter she resigned. ­
"I intend to begin immediately the task of restoring the public's faith in what I have always main­tained is an exceptional agency," he said. "I hope everyone will under­stand how strongly I feel about the compelling necessity to return this agency to its one and only job: to do all we can to ins~re all Americans of a safe and healthy environment." 
Hernandez praised Mrs. Burford, saying, "Her departure is a loss to the agency and to the citizens of our country." 
At the White House, spokesman Larry Speakes said he did not know if administration officials had plans to meet with environmentalists in choosing a permanent successor to Mrs. Burford. Among those being mentioned areJohn Quarles, an EPA official in the 1970s, and James Mahoney, founder of a Massachu­setts environmental consulting firm. 
On Capitol Hill, Rep. James T Broyhill, R-N.C., said Mrs. Burford "got caught in this tug-of-war be­tween the legislative and executive branches" in the dispute over docu­ments. 
Broyhill, ranking Republican on the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee investigating the EPA, added, "I favor the ordering of turning over these documents." 
The documents that contain en­forcement strategy for cleaning up the dump sites were delivered to the House Energy and Commerce sub­committee yesterday under the glare of television lights in a House office building. 
After a brief closed session of the committee the chairman, Rep. John 
D. Dingell, D-Mich., said if the records are turned over to a sister committee as promised, steps should be taken "to see that Mrs. Burford is purged." 
Renaissance Chanson". The concert was held in the Great Hall of O'Sht1ugbnessy and was sponsored hv the Notre Dame Department of Music. (Photo Q.v Pete Laches) 

Held for questioning 
Nkomo's family seized by police 
BULAWAYO, Zimbabwe (AP) ­Security forces arrested Joshua Nkomo's wife yesterday after seizing his daughter and son-in-law for questioning about the opposition leader's escape to neighboring Botswana, official sources said. 
The sources, who requested anonymity, said Joanna Nkomo was taken into custody on a train en route to the capital of Harare. They said Mrs. Nkomo held an air ticket to London, and was traveling under her maiden name. 
Mrs. Thandiwe, and son-in-law, John Ndlovu, were picked up Wed­nesday night, the sources said, following a crackdown that put 1,700 people under arrest in Nkomo's power base in the suburbs 
The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street 

ofBulawayo. 
Officials said Nkomo used Ndlovu's house as a hideout after tel­ling reporters Sunday that Prime Minister Robert Mugabe's govern­ment had tried to kill him. Ndlovu has denied that his house was used byNkomo. 
During a search of townships in Bulawayo last ~ekend, three men were shot to death, including Nkomo's driver. Nkomo said he would have been killed if he had not been warned and fled before sol­diers ransacked his house. 
One official quoted in the Herald newspaper, which is operated by the government-controlled Mass Media Trust, said Nkomo was disguised as a woman when he fled to Botswana Tuesday in a Land-Rover. Botswana denied this report. 
In the Botswana capital of Gaborone, government spokesman Lebang Mpotokwane said Nkomo probably would stay only "a matter of days," then might return to Zim­babwe. 
Diplomats said they believed Nkomo was in the Gaborone area but they did not know where. Un­usually tight security was seen around the residence of President Quett Masire, but there was no in­dication Nkomo was there. 
Mpotokwane, administrative secretary to Masire, said Nkomo "doesn't want to talk to the press and we are happy about that. But it is his decision." 


Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00PM. & Hol 
Open Sunday to serve your favorite cocktails with live entertainment and dancing 
starting at 8 PM Sunday 
1516 N. Ironwood Mon-Sat 11am-1 am just east of campus Sun 4pm·12:30am 
Your Host: Ron DeLaere, N.D. '64 

Exciting Things Are HQppening Qt OQniel's Den Lounge RQmQdQ Inn South Bend 
March 7-19 
The Fabulous Showband  
HIGH TIDE will be showing  
M·Th F-Sat Sun  Dollar Drink Nite on bar liquor & domestic beer Each person will receive a 2 tor 1 drink ticket We are now open Sunday 8·12 pm with live country music by Whiskey Ril'er Band Back by popular demand March 21-26: The Great Sleepy Martin  
52890 U.S. 33 North of Cleveland Rd., South Bend, 272-5220  

Reverend John Garvey Glenmary Home Missioners Room 1 21 Box 46404 Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 
______________________________________________ Age _______
Name 

Address ----------­
City State _________ Zip _______ 

The Observer Friday, March 11, 1983-page 4 

Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Anne McGill Burford resigned Wednesday as chief of the EPA short~y after the White House said it was releasing to Congress documents it had refused to turn over earlier in congressional invesigations ofher agency. In background, left, is Deputy EPA administrator john Hernandez, who will be acting chief See related story on page 3. (APPhoto) 
STARTS Friday! 
,.. 

1 Mile North of Notre Dame on U.S. 31 North Phone 277-1522 
BARGAIN MATINEES-1st 1 SHOWS SATURDAY &SUNDAY (NO HOliDAYS) 
Tirnes: Fri 7:30 & 9:30; Sat & Sun 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 

New regulations raise electric bills 
\'ft\SIIl:'J< ;T():-J (AI') The government adopted regulation~ ye~terday that could rai~e con­sumer~· ekctric bill~ billion' of dol· lar~ a year by allowing utilities to charge their customer~ l(>r power plants stillumkr construction. 
The new Federal Energy Regulatory Commission rule~ reverse a governmenr policy that utility customer., should not pay the co~ts of building a power plant until new electricity actually hegins to llow. 
The regulation~. likt ly to be published within a month and then take effect ~0 dap after that. will ;tl­low utilities to raise their wholc~ale rates to cover SO percent of their con~truction costs. \Vhoksale rates are the prices charged by power plants to local electric companies. 
Legislation has been introduced in both houses of Congress that would roll back the regulations and restrict the commission's authority to approve rate increases based on ongoing construction costs. 
Except in rare instances, utilities now cannot recover those cosb in their wholesale rates under federal law. llowever, public utility com­missions in at least y; state~ already allow construction cosb to ht.· applied to retail rates. 
FERC officials said the change, which had been sought by tlnancial­ly strapped utilities since the early 1970s, will raise wholesale electric rates across the nation an average six percent. Utilities with large con­struction programs could raise their rates through the new regulations by as much as l"i to I -r percent, the officials said. 
The c.ommission, however, said it will allow no more than a six per-
Space shuttle launch delayed until April 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The first launch of the new spac.e shuttle, Chalknger, was postponed again y<:sterday -to the first week in April, at least -because the satellite it is to carry aloft may have been damaged hy a storm last month. 
"There was sufficient conc<:rn for proper operation of several critical spring mechanisms" on the satellite to remove it from Challenger's cargo hay, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration said. 
Crews had been working toward launch on March 2H or perhaps March ~0. Lt. Gen. James A. Abrahamson, director of th<: shuttle program, declined to set a new dat<:. 
• • • Law 

continuedfrom page 1 
were gone. I became suspicious and tried to pay a little closer attention to whom I issued cards." She stressed, howev<:r, that she was not able to keep as much control over the program as she would have liked. 
"We knew th<:r<: was a problem when we r<:cdved reports that Mickey Mouse, Ronald Reagan, and Earth Wind and Fir<: wert: eating din­ner at St. Mary's," she added. 
Hickey points out that the "new program" repr<:s<:nts. not a change in policy, hut a "control shift." 
"I was aware of. th<: frustrations encount<:r<:d hy the ~tud<:nt l'nion S<:cr~:tary in this area," llickey said. "If th<: abuses had continued. the program would more than likdy have h<:en dropped. Our office i~ open from H a.m. to 'i p.m., and we art: able to maintain tht· nece~sary control ov<:r the program." 
II ickey <:xplamed that co-ex card~ would not he obtainable at the ~orth Dining 11:!11, du,e to a lack of available staff in that office. 
"t didn't realit.c the ahu~es were 
-.o  t·xtreme.  hut  I agree  with  the  
program,"  said  Robert  l.eudtke.  
Food  ~ervice  Director  at  Saint  

Tht: 20-ton communications satellite, the largest ever readkd for space, was contaminated by winds of 60-70 mph that raked the launch pad at Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Feb. 28. NASA had said earlier that the satellite had not been seriously damaged by "particulate matter" found on it. 
Th<: satellite has h<:en taken offthe shuttle and into a room on th<: launch structure. NASA hopes it can be repaired there. 
Challenger was scheduled for launch orginally in late January. The launch was pushed back repeatedly because of problems with all three el)gin<:s as well as with a replace­ment for one. 
Mary's. "I'm not aware of all of our tickets being used, so to my knowledge there are no abuses at the levd of Saint Mary's students eating at Notre Dame. As I under­stand it, the abuses lie mainly with 
off-campus  students  using  the  
cards."  
"Last  night,  15  to  20  stud<:nts  

show<:d up with invalidated meal cards," Hickey said. "We will con­tinue with the same system of dis· trihution on a first come, tlrst served basis. We only want to diminate the abuses of the system . after last night. I think the word is out." 
• • • Rape 
con1inuedfrom pa?,e I 
Maurie<: Lev~:sque said the liquor and entertainment licenses for Big Dan's had been issued to Debora Brum of North Dartmouth. because her brother. .fohn \1. Machado, the actual "wner. i-; not a t:.s. citizen. 
"She cried W<: both had a good cry," said Clarin:' Pateakos, a clerk at the Licensing Board. "She was ven· glad to turn th<: license in so nothing more would happen." 

cull rate increase in any one\ ear to pav t<Jr "construction work in progress." 
Assuming that state public utility commissions t<>llow the federal precedent and allow those higher wholesak rate~ to he passed on to consumers. the increa~e would raise retail bills by S(l billion a year. according to an analysis by the American Public Power Association. 
The regulations were immediate­ly allacked by the association, which represents city-owned utilities and rural cooperative~ who hm· 
electricitv from the whok,akrs that FERC n:gulates. Emironmental and consumer groups abo protested. 
Ruth Caplan of the Erl\'ironmental Action Foundation. a consumer group that monitors electric utilities, called the commission·-. ac­tion "a disaster for the con-.umer." 
She said it "give-. utilities a false signal to build more plants" at a time when demand t(>r electricity is decreasing and tht· industry, he­cause of overbuilding in the past, al­ready has a "!0 percent excess in gent:rating capacity. 

continuedfrom page 1 
aid, Lass said. Tn<:y sued the Selective Servic<:, its drector Maj. Gen. Thomas K. Turnage, and the D~:partment of Education and its St:cr<:tary, T.H. Bell. 
The Mudents' lawyers argued the law punishes non-registered stu­d~:ms without their receiving a fair trial. 
"Draft-age male students who fail to submit the statement of com­pliance are automatically denied financial aid, regardless of whether their non-registration is intentional or innocent," Alsop said. 
"When a student certifies he has regist<:red for the draft, he is doing so ofhis own volition," Solomon said in Washington. "He isn't being tried without a trial h<:caus<: it has nothing to do with the penalties under the draft r~:gistration act." 
Th<: r<:gistration law provides for penalties up to five years in prison and a S I 0,000 tine. 
• • • Co-ex 

Editorials 
Friday, March 11, 1983-page 5 

Conflicts, contradictions, and competing interests 
When Ronald Reagan was campaigning for the presidency in 1980, he vowed that he would cut the waste in federal bureaucracy and put an end to contradictory and inef­fective government programs. It is now 19H~ and the president is still trying to shrink the hureacracy and and put an end to unnecessary expenditures. 
RandyFahs 
Friday Analysis 
An example of a bureaucratic contlict and waste of public money is in the area of tobac­co. One governmental agency is spending large sums of money on tobacco price sup­ports while another agency is spending money on an anti-smoking campaign. Unless science has created some new use for toba<·co that I haven't heard of, this is a blatant contlict ofgovernmental activity. 
When former Secretary of Agriculture Or­ville Freeman was asked to respond to this contradiction, he stated, "The government could in good·conscience continue price sup­ports and. indeed, must continue the price support program for tobacco. If the program were discontinued, tobacco prices would fall and cigarettes would cost less. The price reduction would then result in more people smoking, and this, after all, would he contrary to the spirit of health studies." 
It is logic like freeman's that sometimes makes me ashamed to admit that I am a government major. It also points out such a obviously blatant contlict ofinterests that you can only wonder why neither Reagan nor anyone else has put an end to it. 
The truth is that it is the nature ofour politi­cal system to allow contlicting interests to ex­ist. There is rea!ly very little that the pre~icknt. or anvone else for that matter. can do to put a halt to this. The reason stems from the fact that the leaders of the respective groups act in different political arenas. Rarely will the two meet in the same governmental ring to square oft· toe to toe and slug it out until only one remains standing. 

In the example of the tobacco industry, the growers and producers get their subsidies from the Department ofAgriculture. The con­gressional committee in charge offunding this organizition is headed by people from the tobacco-growing states. They represent the interests of their constituents by bringing home price supports. The anti-smoking cam­paign is funded through the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. The congres­sional committee in charge ofthis department is led by people sympathetic to the cause. and subject to pressure by people who are against smoking. 
Our government is large and provides a great many services to a wide range ofpeople. 
In essence, it gives something to al.nost everyone. Thus, it tends to be highly legitimate and publicly supported, while at the same time criticized for its foibles and contradictions. It is so all-encompassing and diverse in its scope that it detles a centralized planning scheme. Power i"' in many far-flung hands; this makes it diftlcult to coordinate functions. 
Still, it is a disquieting thought to know that opposing groups will exist in a government without ever tlnding a resolution to their con­tlict. It is the nature ofdemocracy in America that many different groups will have access to the decision-making process. This will lead to waste, hut some amount of waste is a neces­sary evil if we hope to maintain our democratic ideal of a government which is responsive to the needs of individual people. One still has to wonder, though, ifwe couldn't get the tobacco farmers to grow something different. · 

P. 0. BoxQ 
he misrepresents the true character of theological study ofscripture and tradition. the basis of his "impression" of theological authority in the church, detim11s the proper While catechetical instruction. in the fun­education at Notre Dam t e is not only to dis­
Theologian's role 
relationship between doctrinalli>rmulations damental teachings of Christianity must al­honor those engaged in the discipled ac­and theological inquiry. and reduces ways have a crucial place -ti>r how else tivity of theological teaching, but also to Dear Editor: theological retkction to catechesis. would we he able to remember our prayers? disserve the University community, which 
Surely it was significant that Professor In the lirst instance. the hi~hop~ and the -the overriding task ofthe Catholic univer­expects a more exacting attention to Charles Rice, in his recent letter emphasiz­pope exercise teaching authority not solely sity is to train men and wome1~ the words evidence than that displayed in his handling ing the authority of the Church's magis­lor the purpose of l'Ommanding assent to of John Paul II in that same Oct. ~. 19~9 of magisterial texts. terium over theological work, chose to cite Church teachings. hut also. in the words of address. li>r a "personal svnthesis" through Philip Foubert selectively onlv that portion of the Dog­the Dogmatic Constitution on the Church which they will he able "to hear witness to Ph.D. candidate matic Constitution on Divine Revelation (No.2~). "lor the edit1cation oftheir !lock in their faith hdore the world." In closing his Department ofTheology which underlines the exclusivity of the truth and holiness, remembering that he letter. Prof Rice held that in acce"pt·ing aut­teaching office in "authentically interpret­who is greater should become as the lesser hentic church teaching we are hound to give ing the word of God." His failure to display and he who is the more distinguished, as the "religious submission of will and of mind, Editor's Vote: The appearance ofletters to the very next sentence calb attention to the servant." To begin the discussion hy fasten­whether we agree with it or not." But surely the editor is subject to the daily space con­deficiencies in his entire account ofthe rela­ing on the pope and the bi~hops misses the the truth for which we must give our lives straints of the editorial page. !.etters should tion between the magisterium and theologi­point of any exercis.e of their office: to "live has its o'vvn power to set our hearts and he under 250 words and address specit1c cal retlection: "This teaching office is not the life." Indeed PopeJohn Paul II reminded minds on fire' The deeply personal. critical issues. They must he typed and bear the abm•e the word ofGod, but serz•es it, teach­the l'nited States bishops when he capacity l(>r venturing judgments of truth is address, telephone number. and signature of ing only what has been handed on, listening addressed them in Chicago on Oct. "i. 19~9. intrinsic to our faith! Prot Rice does a dis­the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not to it devoutly, guarding it scrupulously, and that. "Our leadership will he dfecti\·e only service to this dimension ofour discipleship acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, explaining it faithfully by divine commission to the extent that our own dbcipleship is by making the bottom line a matter of sub­or letters addressed to persons other than 
and with the help of the Holy Spii'it." That genuine ... The holiness of personal con­mission no matter what. the editor are not acceptable. All letters are was not his only disrespect for context. version is the condition t(>r our fruitful min­Fnr Prof Rice to use the term "scandal" on subject to editing. Again. in the same section of the Dogmatic istrY as bishops of the church." The teaching Constitution on the Church (:'>lo. 25) from oft1ce serves the word ofGod. then. as much which Prot: Rice chose a passage evoking the by "listening devoutly" as by proposing "religious assent" the faithful should give to powerfully. It is hardlv an exaggeration to the teachings of the magisterium, we tlnd: say that Rice runs the risk of idolatry by "The Roman Pontiff and the bishops. in con­making the magisterium itself the focus of 
formity with their duty and as bctlts the faith; the Constitution on Di\·ine Rt·velation. 
gravity of the matter. stril'e painstaking/)• to the contrary, says clearly that tradition, and b)' appropri((te means to in quire Kripture. and the teaching authority of the properlv into that ret•elation and to git•e church "are so linked and joined together a,pt expression to its contents." And in the that one cannot stand without the others." same Oct. :, 19"'9 address of Pope John Paul The "painstaking and appropriate in­
II quoted by Prof Rice to support his point quiry" into revelation which results in its that Catholic theologians should adhere to "apt expression" in doctrinal limn is already the magisterium. we read: "I want to say a a theological activity. As Raymond Brown special word of gratitude, encouragement has recently pointed out, "Every l(>rmula­and guidance for the theologians. The tion that we accept as part of the contents of church needs her theologians, particularly our faith is the product of theological retlec­in this time and age so profoundly marked by tion." That is wll\' John Paul II said that "The deep changes in all areas of life and society. Church needs her theologians." That is why The bishops of the church. to whom the in the text ofJ1)'sterium Ecclesiae, the 19~ -~ Lord has entrusted the keeping of the unity Declaration of the Doctrinal Congregation ofthe faith and the preaching ofthe message of Rome, we are told that: "Theologians seek -individual bishops for their dioceses, and to detlne exactlv the intention of teaching bishops collegially with the successor of proper to the \·arious formulas. and in carn·­Peter for the universal church -we all lis­ing out this work thn· are of comiderahle ten to you and we are eager to receit•e the assistance to the living \lagi~terium of the Nilued assistance of .l'OIII' responsible Church, to which they remain subor­scholarship." All this is far from the adver­dinated." Hv hardening the distinction into a sarial mold into which Prof Rice has cast his divorce between "church teachings" and portrayal of the relauons between magis­"theOlogical opinions," Prof Rice has gi\ en a terial oftke and theological teaching. poor rendition of what is actuallv a compiex 
But Ill\' point is not simplv that Prot: Rice and cooperati\'l' relationship. Indeed the consistently neglects the contexts of the magisterium it~eu· has been decisi\T in thl­passages he quotes. thereby distorting the oftkial adoption ( IH>We\'lT belated) h\ the 
•

fuller teaching of the texts. It is rather more: Church of historical-critic.ll methods in the 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, .'Votre Dame, /.'If 4655(! 
Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the: uni­
Managing Editor ................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily retlect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic ·Advertising Manager....................... Chris Owen 
the policies of the administration of eit'ler instillltion. The news is reported as ac­
SMC Executive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Prodt;ction Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editoriab represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor................................... Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ............................ Joe Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303 
r 
···················································································~ 

r 
Bumps in the night 
F 
om ghosties andghoulies, And Three-legged beasties, And things that go bump in the night . . .good Lord, delit•er us! 
-old Cdtic prayer 

There used to be a large, gray dog that would visit campus-. The 
animal, whose breed I have forgotten, belonged, I believe, to Digger 
Phelps. He was spirited and beautiful to watch; and he was interest­
ing because he got around on three legs. I'm not sure what happened 
to the fourth leg. but it probably got left behind after some accident. 
He did not seem in the least bit slowed down by his handicap, be­
cause he moved swiftly and gracefully across the quad, when you 
might have expected him to topple over like a table missing one of 
its underpinnings. 
Last night, I dreamed that my own dog, Darby O'Ciill II, lost one of 
his legs while I was away for semester break. The sadness ofimagin­
ing a three-legged Darby -whose shaggy front paws always make 
him look as though he were wearing shaggy mittens -woke me 

from sleep on the point oftears. In the middle ofthe night, I climbed under the bed where he sleeps, to make sure his limbs were intact. I suppose parents must check their sleeping children to make sure they are safe from harm. Darby was surprised to find me on the tloor hugging him counting his paws as though they were as important to me as to him. I could still love Darby ifhe were a three-legged beastie, but I prefer him whole in his beauty as a dog, though I cer­tainly admire animals like Digger's that could carry on as usual after a physical mutilation. 
Sad dreams about the welfare of Darby O'Gill show me how un­easy my mind is as I leave Notre Dame for the semester break. For ten days, I'll be moving around the Southern States on the Glee Club bus. I like to travel, on my way to fun in the sun; seeingold friends under a Carolina moon, reaching the top ofthe Matterhorn in the make­believe land ofthe Disney mouse. It also worries me to leave my campus home. Away from Notre Dame, I try to remember the night scene: the Dome, the lakes, the Grotto, the view of the library from my PW window. I make phone calls to my room. knowing that no one will answer, as a way ofkeeping in touch with precious keepsakes and books through the ringing of the phone. My things, I imagine, will recognize me as the caller, and be happy I have not for­gotten them. 
I'm always afraid ofnot getting back. No one can promise you will everget back, if you leave a place even for a little while. Aplace owns you, ifthe trees and buildings are a part ofyour mental landscape. Yet the place cannot be so loyal to you, nor can you ever be so loyal to it, that you can make a covenant guaranteeing you can come home again. Ufe is what happens while you're busy with dreams of the homecoming. 
Alittle while ago, a friend called to say she is going away for a year. Icould have had better news on a morning after dreaming that harm came to my dog. Fitz is also leaving. I like the world that has Fitz in it. The strangers who come next year will be nice, but I am not familiar with their kindness as I am with Fitz's. Home is a place where you know the people as well as the locations of the bathrooms. Friends take part ofyour home with them when they go, leaving you as homesick as though you were the one who left; and from a distant place, you were looking back, remembering. 
I alW'.lysfeellike a fussbudget, whether I'm leaving Notre Dame for a weekend ora summer. Next week, I will be travelling on a bus with students, seeing students and graduates along the way. A McDonald's, five hundred miles from Indiana and crowded with Domers, seems a lot likethe Huddle, so there's no reason I should be lonesome for Notre Dame. t Glee Clubbers bring footballs and fris­bees with them, so the days will be filled with sights and sounds of students playing. In the evening, the school songs will be sung as though from the risers of Washington Hall. 
hisharder in the summer, living in New York, walking in the dark streets with the tall buildings. There, by myself, I am all there is of Notre Dame, a self-conscious bit of the campus lost in Manhattan; a Domer afraid of not getting home again, wondering why I came, yet knowingthat because ofrestlessness, New York too is part ofmy life, with a night-skyline as part ofa mental landscape to which I must be faithful; happy and yet bothered because my life has turned into a tale oftwo cities. Yet I never go to New York. thinking I've gone there to stay. When the journeys are ended, the place I'll stay is home in Indiana. I always pray it may be so. 
In climbing on a bus, I feel I have exposed myselfto the capri­ciousnessoflife. I entrust the de..rest things, the sweetest friends, to the hands ofthe gods, to keep for me until my return, hoping they will let me come back. By and bye, if! am lucky, I'll climb down from the bus at the end ofthe trip, finding everyone and everything in the place where I left them. 
Ofthe hostages I give to fortune. the four-footed Darby is a symbol oftheir fragility. On saying goodbye. I bless him as I would a Chris­tian, telling him to keep a weather eye on the campus. As ~heels move me out the gate, I offer furtive signs of the cross to campus people needing protection from harm. Blessings aren't magic. but they are a way ofleaving one's caring behind. A priest has to trust that hf~ blessings will help, because he can't tuck the world into bed every night, to keep it safe. 
Please keep yourselves safe during break. We have business with 
each other when we get back. We have lifetimes ahead of us in the 
million places we will call home. 
Friday, March 11, 1983 -page 6 
The spitit thQ~ 


Robett Walsh &Thomas Plernek 
features 
space in which to house the Art Department. at least in part, and not because ofa t:niversity decision to save the building. 
I f()llowed a stair\>;ay down and passed through the second doorwav into the main corridor. Thereupon, I reached the short steps which led to the main tloor ofthe gymnasium. On my right was a number ofoffices and a hallway which held the only con­cession stand in the Fieldhouse. In the early 19.30s, Ray Meyer, a fresh­man, polished apples and stacked bags of peanuts during the varsity 

T
he Old Fieldhouse, first built in 1898 and rebuilt in 190 I, is scheduled to he razed over spring break. With the physical plant per­sonnel finalizing arrangements on the demolition and alumni newslet­ters announcing the sale of the bricks and pieces of the basketball court there is no question as to the Fieldhouse's fate. As the final bell tolls for the once king size gym­nasium, it seems appropriate to reflect on the University's decisions about the Fieldhouse over these past fifteen years, as well as conllicting Dominic Napolitan trained his boxers and :aunched the Bengal Bouts ovc;r fifty years ago. The ceiling was high, its wet-plaster designed in creative patterns. Elegance pervaded even here, in the training room ofso brazen asport. Such irony was often characteristic of the Fieldhouse. 
On the far side ofthe room a door led to a tunnel, which led to the bal­cony, one of the most star-studded balconies in the world. 
The last pep rally held in the Fieldhouse was in October of 1969. 
basketball games. Ten years later he was the assistant coach for Notre Dame. Today he holds the record for the most victories as a head coach in college basketball. 
Across from the concession stand was a door covered in green vinyl. The white printing on it read "Students must show ID cards." Even then a person could not get by without his 10 card. To the left ofthe steps was a lounge and more offices, and as I walked through, I reached the far north wall and headed eastward; it was then I entered the football locker room. This was the locker room ofGeorge Gipp, the Four Horsemen,Jesse Harper, and of course Knute Rockne. For 23 con­secutive years, from 1906 to 1928, Notre Dame football teams won every home football game as they ran from this locker room onto Car­tier Field. 
In April of 1970. the University considered renovation of the old building, and contacted Ellerbe Ar­chitects. Ellerbe responded with its "Feasibility Report on the Fieldhouse." It reported that the Fieldhouse did not meet the Univer­
sity's long-range plans and should he leveled. It also stated that a new building would cost less and last for 'iO years, while the renovation ofthe Fieldhouse would cost ap­proximately SI.7 million and last only 20. 
I returned a third time to the steps and entered the gymnasium. The balcony hung over the main tloor by several feet, and it was only after I had passed under it that I coukt see ~" , the arched ceiling. Immediately noticeable were the rafters which supported the ceiling, spanning from north to south, uniformly separated from each other. Twenty-two beams, 14 from the old reports from architects, the lack of any consideration toward ideas and plans, and ofcourse, the spirit which once lived within the now crum­bling walls. 


I opened the main front door and passed through the first doorway. Between it and the second doorway, on both my right and left, was a wide staircase winding upwards, each a mirror image ofthe other. Following one tlight ofstairs, I found myself in the boxing room. It was here that Although it was scheduled to be demolished soon after, the Art Department stepped in and offered to use the facility. The department was overcrowded and unable to 
build three dimensional works in O'Shaughnessy Hall. The adminstra­tion granted the Art Department its wish and set the budget around 
S10,000 per year. The project was organized on a very temporary basis. Certainlv, it seems that the building had been spared because of a lack of 

~~----------~-._.,-----~------------------------~--------------~-~-~ -~ 
······~··········································································· 
The Observer Features Section Friday, March 11, 1983-page 7 
was is dead, so swings the boom 
structure, eight from the 1925 east 1970 appeared to be the bottom line 
addition. stretched the kngth ofthe ofan income statement. The l.'niver­
main room. Also visible were the sity had lost over $900,000 in 1969 
small windows which lined each and was projecting losses ofwell 
side ofthe original structure. and the over S I ,000,000 in 1970. in addition 
skylight windows. which again were to a wavering endowment fund of 
only present in the original S50 million. In contrast. the 1982 
structure. Apparently outdoor light­endowment fund stood at $218 mil­
ing was important particularly since lion and the Univer~ity's revenue 
there was no electricity at the turn well exceeded its expenditures. 
ofthe century at Notre Dame. Again I walked forward a few feet. 
Thirteen years later, there still Here the floor began. and extended remains questions regarding until the basketball court. The floor Ellerbe's assessments. First, one also formed the infield to the track. must wonder why the University It took 13 laps to complete a mile contacted Ellerbe since the renova­before the addition, but only seven tions of the Architecture Building in were needed afterward. Notre Dame 1964 and ofSt. Edward's Hall in has set so many records on this track 1980 were done by two separate that it would be difficult to recall South Bend firms and Ellerbe does a them all; they varied from the U.S. great deal more work on newer record for the 440-yard dash in 1901 buildings. It would seem unfor­to U.S. record in the 300-yard dash tunate that the official University set by Bill Hurd in 1968 as he was policy at that time was to consult on­training for the 1968 Olympics. ly Ellerbe. Many athletes used track as a second 
Second, the building has lasted 1 5 sport to stay in shape during the off­years despite a lack of maintenance. season. Knute Rockne pole-vaulted 20 years seems conservative. Third, 11 feet in 1912 to set a gymnasium the University's long-range pro_S!:_a~ record as the varsity track team 
I again walked eastward near the basketball court. The baseball team trained for its upcoming spring season here. jake Kline played here, from 1915 to 1917, and later coached the University team from 1933-1972. In the 110 year history of major league professional baseball. only 1,5 men have ever hit over 3000 hits in their careers, and two played here, Cap Anson and Carl Yastremski. The element of baseball adds the final touches to the Fieldhouse. On any given February afternoon, one could find not only track runners and pole vaulters, but also boxers, fencers, pitchers, catchers, and batters. Asign in the early '60s read, "Baseball practiced here daily: enter at your own risk." 
But maybe all this confusion was really magic, as a Scholastic writer wrote in 1966, "Perhaps the chaos of the Fieldhouse is part of the charm of Notre Dame." 
Certainly the Fieldhouse had become insufficient for the use ofan ever-expanding University. A bas­ketball team like UCLA refused to play here, and the crowds were overflowing. Still, it would seem the building could have been used for other University needs, besides a temporary shelter for art students. 
I passed beneath the fourteenth 
beam and came upon the 1925 addi­was designed by Ellerbe, and has overwhelmed Ohio State. mitory. At that time registration was tion. On both sides, set past the been modified so often during the executed here, by hall. Other ac­original structure were the per-
Still the question remains why the 

'70s that a professor in Notre Dame's tivities held in the Fieldhouse in­
University did not consider renova­


Architecture Department recently cluded Mardi Gras, Washington's
tion in the mid-70s, particularly

claimed that in fact they have no Day Celebration, as well as
since Notre Dame was making a 

long-range program. He added that numerous civic and cultural
sizable profit by that time. Certainly

Ellerbe is good, but they are not presentations. In January 19:P.J
student interest was there, since 

great. and this University deserves Edgar Hoover spoke here as part of
many times Notre Dame ar­

great. an alumni-sponsored nationwide
chitecture students have considered 

tour against communism. 19'7 wasI walked until! stood underneath the possibilities of renovating the one of the last years Commence­the tifth and sixth beams. On my Fieldhouse themselves. 
ment Exercises was held here beforeright were two large, wooden doors. 
As early as 196H, the July issue of 

Through those doors, every autumn Alumnus magazine reported, "the being moved outside. Members of Friday night for over sixty years. 
building may be turned over to the the graduating class included a passed the Notre Dame band student body for conversion into a chemical engineer named Thomas followed by the entire student body. 
place for social gathering ... it has Carney. now Chairman of the Board 
which had pursued the band in its 
been a standard complaint for years ofTrustees of Notre Dame, and an tour of the campus like the Pied that there isn't any place you can accountant from Spartansburg.
Piper's mischievous mice. The take a date, especially if you aren't South Carolina named Edmund players and coaches would already 
21." The article continued, " ...one jovce.

be seated in the balcony as the group plan, which combines a number of It seems that the Fieldhouse has entered. Suddenly and without ideas calls for a student center ... lasted this long not only because of warning. the band would strike up the design includes a miniature bi­the lack ofspacefor the Art l_)epart­the "Victory :\iarch" and the place level mall, typical of many suburban ment but also bec-mse of the sen­would nearly explode. I looked shoppingcenters." The call for a stu­timentality of the old place. In beneath me at the dirt floor. Before dent center. even now. remains October 1969, students were told 1925 and the expansion, basketball strong, but the memories and the that the last pep rally of the year was played in this western end on a spirit of the Old Fieldhouse seem to would be held at Stepan Center. 
clay court which had to be rolled have faded forever. It would seem However, recognizing a sense of and watered down daily. Both the that Ellerbe's report has played a place, students stormed the floor and the wooden doors gave 
determining role in the fate of the Fieldhouse. Finally. in September of Bob Hope reason to call this place a 
Fieldhouse. Perhaps it is the reason 19""'0. under penalty ofexpulsion
barn when he spoke here. 
for the rejection ofany plans for and threat ofarrest did students The bottom line on renovation in renovation since 19""'0. move to Stepan. although, on the 

manent seats, lettered in rows from A to T. On an overhang above the seats hung banners which named the opposition for the basketball season: Evansville, De Paul, Detroit, St.john's, and others. Beneath the seats on the north side was ftrst a hal­lway and then the fencing room. In 1968, last season played there, the Irish foilers strung together 29 con­secutive victories. Beneath the south seats laid the visiting teams locker room and other offices. 
Yet despite the questions surrounding Ellerbe's assessments, and the lack ofany considerations of other plans, one must be realistic in the assessment of the priorities of the University. According to Father joyce, "Ellerbe's report was the real reason we did not consider renova­tion after 1970. Ellerbe is the Uni­versity Architects, and although they may not be spectacular in the planning, they are practical, affor­dable and fit the needs ofthe Univer­sity well." 
It seems that there is a lesson to be learned in the demolition of the Fieldhouse, though a humbling one. Notre Dame has more important priorities just as it did in 1970. It must be very cautious in its spend­ing, careful not to upset its longer­range plans. Years from now the present student body will indeed ap predate such conservatism, but now, as various calls go unanswered, one can find consolation only in the often heard phrase, "Notre Dame ...not quite the great Univer­sity it intends to be." 


,­
r 
I 
I 
~j)()f1tS=~~~~~J~·~~=S~;=~~~========================F=ri=da=y=,M=a=r=ch=1=1=,=19=8=3==p=a=g=e=8
By The Obseruer and The Associated Press 
Rich O'Leary's lacrosse team begins its third 
varsity season during the break as it travels to Baltimore to take on Yale University on Sunday, March 13. After that game, the Irish will move on to Durham, N.C., to play Duke University. The squad is coming off a 9-6 season last year, including an appearance in the. Midwest Lacrosse Association championship game. The home opener is Wednesday, March 23, when the Michigan Lacrosse Club visits Cartier Field for an exhibition game. The first MLA game is Saturday, March 26, when the Irish entertain Kenyon College on Cartier. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame tennis team starts its 1983 
spring season with a tough West Coast swing over break. The season starts tomorrow when the team takes on Claremont College and Pomona College. Then, on Sunday, the team plays Cal State-Los An­geles. Pierce College, Whittier College, Redlands University, Cal-San Diego, Point Lorna College, and San Diego State will also play host to the Irish before they return to the Midwest to take on Minnesota. ­
The Observer 
Coach Noel O'Sullivan'sgolfers wm be playing in the 72-hole Florida International Sunshine Tournament in Miami over break. Last year, the team performed well in the tournament, finishing sixth out of 21 teams. This year the team returns five start­ers and is one of the deepest teams ever in terms ofgood players. ­
The Obseruer 
The Notre Dame waterpolo clubwill begin 
practices Monday, March 21 -the day after break-at 4 p.m. sharp. Practice Tuesday will be at 3:45p.m. -The Observer 
An Tostal Inner Tube Water Polo captains 
will have a meeting on Tuesday, March 22, at 7 p.m. in the basement 
ofFarley Hall. This is very' important, as matches will begin the next 
day. Any questions call Cathy Trusela at 6861 orJohn Smith at 6837. 
-The Observer 
All prospective 1983-84 cheerleaders 
should note that there is a mandatory organizational meeting in the LaFortune Ballroom on Tuesday, March 22, at 7 p. rn. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketballsignups will 
take place on Thursday, March 2-l from 6 to 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. More details on the tournament will be announced sometime after break. -The Obsen1er 
• • • Goodbye 
conlinuedfrom page 12 

to him and his maturity. He's helped us in so many ways." 
Mostly he has shown his class in practices this year by helping the freshman adjust to the collegiate game. But if Notre Dame does indeed get an NCAA bid this Sunday, many thanks can be given to Andree for his performance on the tloor against Northern Iowa. 
The night supposed to be a party, as the Irish would proceed to blow out the 13-1 7 Panthers by 30 points like they did last year. 
The Panthers, however, carne to play. After falling behind 9-4, North­ern Iowa reeled off a 22-10 se­quence to take a 26-19 advantage with 4:45 left till intermission. 
Andree, who started at center be" cause ofinjuries to starting forwards Billy Varner and Jim Dolan, had al­most single-handedly kept the Irish in the game with his shooting and rebounding up to then. After two more baskets by the Farmington, Mich., native the score was cut to 27-24 before he sat down with 2:27 left till the halfas a result ofhis third foul. Up to then he had scored 13 of the 24 points while also garnering a team high eight rebounds. 
He had saved the Notre Dame ship that was sinking early in the game and was heading for disaster. Once Andree did his part to keep the team on an even keel, captain John Pax­son, held very much in check during this period (scoring only two points), took over the throttle. Pax­son scored the final six Notre Dame points of the first half, including ; majestic turnaround 25-toot rain­bow at the buzzer to cut the Pan­thers' halftime lead to 31·30. 
Paxson then led a 16-4·spurt at the beginning of the second half by hit­ting three ba~kets and dishing out two assists to put the game out of reach for the gutsy Panthers. The spurt could be credited in part to the "verbal adjustments" that Phelps said he gave to the team at halftime. 
"Some coaches support the three­point goal, others a shot clock," la­mented Northern Iowa head-coach Jim Berry. "I would have been in favor ofa 20-minute game tonight." 
The tremendous play of Andree continued on both ends of the tloor, as he finished the game with 20 points and a game-high 12 rebounds in 36 minutes. When he was tlnally taken out in the final minute, the man who had received so much ridicule throughout his career was saluted with a standing ovation for a courageous -and perhaps even a game-saving -performance in his final home game. He went out with dignity, class and with some tears of joys savoring his accomplishment. 
He had climbed Mount Adversity over the four year course, and in the end he enjoyed the view from the top. 
"Coach made a move this year that I had to accept," explained an emotional Andree after the game. "It was the hardest thing that I ever had to do, but it put basketball and my life in perspective. Today, I feel bet­ter then ever about myself as a per­son rather than as a basketball player -and that's more important." 
Indeed, Andree, Paxson, Varner, Karl Love, Head Manager Joe Krug, assistant manager Phil Brigham and statistician Rich O'Connor have all gone through a four-year ex­perience in growth and maturity that Phelps especially lauds. 
"I've never seen it happen the way it has for this group," praises Phelps. "I told them to cherish what you all just went through because you'll never go through it again." 
It's not quite yet over, though. 
"We're not done yet," announced All-America John Paxson to the stu­dent body after the game about the 19-9 Irish. "We're gonna see you in the NCAA's." 

Baseball opens with southwest trip, ORU 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Despite losing five of last year's top seven hitters and a dearth ofex­perience at most of the infield and outfield positions, third-year Notre l_)ame baseball manager Larry Gallo is optimistic about this spring's record-setting 54-game slate. 
"We may be inexperienced in some areas," says Gallo. "But this year's team may be the most talented since I've been here. 
"This year's team reminds me a lot of the 1980 team (which had the best record in Notre Dame history, 29-8, with Gallo serving as a first­year assistant coach). They might not have had the same amount of talent, but they were young and un­tested, like ourselves." 
The schedule begins with a gruel­ing Spring Break trip which includes I I games over seven days. On Sun­day, Notre Dame will play Creighton and follow with Oral Roberts. On Monday, the Irish will play Kansas State and follow again with ORU. On Tuesday, the Irish will take on Kansas State again before playing St. Mary of the Plains in a doubleheader on Wednesday. All these games will be at Tulsa, Okla. 
On Thursday, Notre Dame travels to Fayetteville, Ark., to take on Southwest Conference powerhouse Arkansas, and on Friday will journey to Joplin, Mo., to play Missouri Southern State. 
The Spring Break (some break) journey concludes with a doubleheader against Southwest Missouri State at Springfield, Mo 
The club is hoping to avert the slow starts that have plagued them in the last two years on these opening spring journeys. In 1981 the team started off with an 0-7-1 mark, while last year's team got out of the blocks with a 2-6 record. In both cases the team made tremen­dous recoveries as Gallo piloted it to 23-9 and 26-9 records respectively for the remainder of those seasons. 
How Notre Dame fares against Oral Roberts, the nation's No. 3 team, will be especially interesting since they are the defending cham­pion of the Midwestern City Con­ference -which Notre Dame joins this year. 
After the I !-game trek over break, Notre Dame will play seven more games on the road before opening 
its  home  schedule  with  a  
doubleheader  against  Indiana  on  
April2.  

The Observer will accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classtfieas to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on All classtfieds must be prepaid. 

Classifieds e1ther in person or through the mail. 
NOTICES 
TYPING 
Jackie Boggs 
684-8793 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
TYPING IN MY HOME (resumes. letters. reports. term papers. etc J. NEAT AC CURATE WORK. REASONABLE RATES 233· 7009 
-Pandora's Books buysused textbooks. Buying hours Mon.-Thurs. 1:00-4:00. We have special savings on both new and used books during our Friday Happy Hour. Stop in from 3:00­
6:00 & browse thru our bargains. 937 So. Bend Ave.­
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND NOTRE DAME JACKET AT STEPAN COURTS ON FEB 24/25 IDENTIFY COLOR AND SIZE AND ITS YOURS CALL MIKE AT 277-2653 
LOST A bnght blue knapsack w1th a suede bottc'rr It conta;:,ed a notebook. keys and calculator PLEASE return to room 334 P W or cal12722 The contents are needed for a group pro1ect Thank you. 
LOST AT GRACE FORMAL FRI 3/4 1 LEFT MY HAT AND UMBRELLA IN THE PRINCE CHARMING Please return GIN DE RELLA s s1lver shoes that were used 1n B-Ps Screw-Your-Roommate I rn gomg barefoot now Drop them outs1de 143 B·P. 1992 No quest1ons asked 
HELP-I LOST MY SILVER BRACELET ,n the third floor gyrnnast1cs room at tne Rock on fnday 3-4-83 afternoon REWARD" Call Anne at 2968 PLEASE" 

To the beautiful women who found my LAUNDRY CARD You have not called thiS week and lett any demands Please return· I NEED MY LAUNDRY BEFORE I LEAVE FOR BREAK NICK x8232 
LOST A Khak1 overcoat w1th pla•d 1in1ng It s a London Fog trorn Brooks Brothels Please call 81521f found Reward thanks 

FOUND ROOM AND MAIL KEYS IN MENS RESTROOM IN ENG BUILDING CALLJIM 1498 HI JEAN. ONLY 2 MORE DAYS' 
LOST BLUE/TAN REVERSIBLE SPRING JACKEl NEAR CUSHING 
LOST BIRTH CERTIFICATE the ongmal Near Law school Charesse Caton If found. call233·9351.1eave message 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277­3604 
Student Rental. 5-bedroorn horne $420 rna 233-6779 
. 902 N NOTRE DAME -4 BEOROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE. GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON HEAT. $335/MONTH 684·0933 (LOCAL 
CALL) 
FURN 2BR POSSIBLE 3BR APT NEAT & NEAR ND CALL 233·7631or 234-8743 
WANTED 
ATLANTA atlanta ATLANTA Need nde to Atlanta lor break Can leave Fnday noon Maybe someone gotng thru FLORIDA can help Call Dave at x6931 
DC-MD-VA Need nde to D C for break Can leave af· ter noon Fnday Call Pete at 277-0838 
Need nde to MINN for break Share usual Call 881.3 
FOR SALE ] 
USED. OUT-OF-PRINT BOOI<S BOUGHT SOLD. SEARCHED ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY JEFFERSON INTERSECTION 
FOR SALE 1980 Yamahopper MC Low m1leage. Excellent cond1110n -$300 Please call Dan at x6824 

PERSONALS 
ATLANTAatlanta ATLANTA need nde to Atlanta for break Can leave Fnday. noon Call Dave at 6931 
&L1ttle Sibs-Bulfalo-Pn•ladelpn•a Anyone who has brothers/siSters commg tor L1ttle S1bs Weekend. Apnl 15·17. buses from the BuHalo and Philadelphia area are be1ng orgamzed Roundtnp tare Buffalo $43 and Ph1lly $64 Reg1stra11on forms available m the Student Govemment Ofllce Deadline IS March 15 
Ann Only 10 more days 1111 your 19th birthday! Better make the most ol18 over break! 
DC-MD-VA Need nde to D C area lor break Can leave after noon on Fnday Call Pete at 277·0838 
R1de BACK needed' Are you com1ng back from break on Thursday or Fnday? W1ll you be pass1ng through Atlanta? Could you p1ck me up? I need a nde back early' Please call Jeb at 8641 Thanks 
DENISE Don t forget me at the tram stat1on today' Love Sam 
to SELA (my hot tamale) you are rny Aura Bonng Alice your MAN for all seasons ED YOU VE HEARD THE RUMOURS YOU VE SEEN THE PICTURES NOW THE TRUTH MUST BE TOlDII' THAT S RIGHT TIM REILLY HAS OFFICIALLY ANNOUNCED HIS CANDIDACY FOR UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS!!! HE LL OUTDISGUST AND OUTGROSS ANYONEII' HE S SERIOUS AND HE S READY. BUT MOST OF ALL BUT MOST OF ALL. HE IS U·G·L·Y 
Boy. Ill bet hies a lot eas1er now nght 0 0 ? You know who thiS IS trorn 
To the blue-eyed fox from Pound R1dge Have fun m Flonda Send rne a postcard Thanks 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARY D. The best 1~ yet to come tor you. Mom See ya at the NCAA s next week -how could they turn you down on your birthday? Love, 
M1ke 

T1rn V Sacnt1ce your f1rst-born to me Torn 
HI KATHY. HAVE AN EXITING BREAK IN GREECE OR WHEREVER YOU END UP MIKE AND I ARE ATTACKING SOUTHERN FLORIDA TOGETHER ILL WRITE YOU FROM DOWN THERE AND FILL YOU IN ON OUR ESCAPADES"' SEE YOU SOON LOVE. THOMAS 
Hey Joe. sorry I never got the chance to get that last feature m on time for once Thanks lor 
Sarah. you re mov1ng up Be careful-this t1me 
A POEM FOR YOU To the g1rl With the Beauty. who knows shes a cutle--may her break be real swell Without the one who knows ner well For 1 w111 rn1ss rny cup1e the one who 1s not 1oop1e But unt1l I see her. Ill tell her to be sure that Barb1e dolls are best--a cut above tne rest 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY. KATIE HEALY'IO 
To the departmg figure-boneheads: At long last, these many months ofJOurnalis­tiC bl1ss have come to a close .rhe light­hearted meetmgs, the libelous headlmes, the mysteriously mangled legal pads, the appalling conversations, the kidnapped comic stnps, those long grueling days in the off1ce hidmg behmd the NEW YORK TIMES, the redneck reviews. the demise of a certam "ace·· mvest1gat1ve reporter on leave from another midwestern univer­
Sity, graft, McGralt, Vic, tck, the humanity, the mcomperance, the ·angst. Margraft, ''shots," the lawnmowers. the hoses. Jer­ry Ford ("Here, Liberty") and cerrarn dis­frayed desk bins. George Esbur. thousands of envelopes m a humid August, the club, the grenade, the McGinzu and, ofcourse. the gun . 
A fond farewell, Fost Ver Manker 
Hondo. Don t worry Ill be good Love. Me 
Attenilon rnoose-oph1les Don t forget to w1sh Marsnall Blankensn1p a happy 22nd b1rthday 
Happy birthday to HHQ SMC s best bas· ketball manager 


The Observer Friday, March 11, 1983-page 9 
• • . Paxson 
heating l'CLA with four free throw~ in the last minute,
conlllllledji·unt puge 12 
jackie was in the ladie~· room clutching her rosary. And around the South Quad. Kelly Tripucka was .... well, 
don't ask her how John led the Irish over Dayton this Kelly Tripucka. Football players are notorious for 
past Monday -she was at the Grotto. wearing tht:ir varsity letter jackets everywhere, even to • I 
As a parent, though, she was always there wheneH.'r bed, whether the temperature is I00 degrees or 50 
John needed her. below. 
"He wasn't tough to raise at all," she says. John Paxson's letter jacket stays in the closet. He 
"John's a little impatient at times. He was a little 
never wears it. 
spoiled in that things came a little bit easier for him than 
"I'd much rather be regarded as a ffiend than an ath­Jimmy. John's for he's ac­
for But worked what 

lete," he says. "I prefer to he associated with people complished."
who are with me not because I'm an athlete. I just want • to he a part of the student and dorm life here." 
"Paxson speaks a different language than the other 
"That's just his nature," addsjim Sr. "He doesn't want players on the floor." -Milan Vasojevic, head coach, to call attention to him~elf. He wants to show that he's Yugoslavian National Team. 
not a 'jock,' that he's a total person." "Tripucka was a Pied Piper, an extrovert," says Last summer, John Paxson, born and raised in the Digger Phelps. "You'd walk into a room and you knew heartland, made his first trip outside the United States Tripucka was there. John Paxson-you may know he's on a tour of Europe with the U.S. Amateur Basketball 
irt' the back corner of the room." 
Association. The tour -which took him to Switzerland,"He's a rather private person," says Jackie Paxson. 
Hungary and Yugoslavia-enabled him to sharpen his 
"He feels thing~ intensely, but he keeps it all inside. He skills against world-class competition and, more impor­feels there's no reason showing those things out in the tantly, give him a valuable cultural experience.
open." 
The Europeans got a taste of Paxson's abilities -in Part ofthat is because ofPaxson's humility, and part is one game, he hit a shot at the buzzer to beat the Yugos­because he is basically a shy person -although not lavians. In return, Paxson received a fu-st-hand samplingnearly as much as he used to be. 
ofCommunist repression.

"I think his shyness is just his nature," says his father. 
"It was really neat, and really intense sometimes," he 
The Paxson Profile 
"He likes to familiarize himself with a situation before says. "We were pretty 1;11uch kept away from what he opens ups. 
they didn't want us to see, especially in Hungary (which"Through the experiences he's had, you can see his is behind the Iron Curtain). We saw what they wanted 
His All-American Stats 
shyness slowly going away. Because he's at Notre Dame, us to see. 
he's had to face the media constantly, and he's had to "It gave me an appreciation of what we have here. 
G Jo'G-t'GA Pet. FT-FTA Pet.
learn to talk to strangers. Last year (when the Irish You can go where you want and do what you want." 
1979-80 27 42-87. .483 41-55 .745
finished I 0-1 7) was especially tough for him, but the 
Perhaps it was that experience that promptedJohn to 
1980-81 29 113-218 .518 61-89 .685
experience was good for him -to see that he's able to join the NCAA's "Volunteers For Youth" program, 
1981-82 27 185-346 .535 72-93 .774
shrug things like that'off and face reality." 
where college athletes are able to spend some time 
1982-83 28 213-393 .542 69-94 .734
• each week with disadvantaged youths in the com­
111 553-1044 .529 243-331 .734
We made so many mistakes with them (the 
munity.

children). We'd like to take all the credit for their 
Through the program, Paxson was able to "adopt" a I 
success, but we real~y can't."-Jackie Paxson. 
little brother -13-year-old Jeff Morrow, an eighth 
A st. ST TP Avg.
grader at Edison Junior High School in South Bend. 

When talking withJohn Paxson's parents, it becomes 
1979-80 62 24 125 4.6
"It's something I thought I wanted to do," says John. 
quite obvious where John inherited his humble ways. 
1980-81 138 34 287 9.9
"We're there to be a good influence. It's a challenge, but 
Jim and Jackie Paxson have raised four children ­
1981-82 ~9 39 442 16.4
I'm glad I'm doing it. He's shy and I'm shy. sons Jim Jr., 25, John, 22, and Mike, 20, and a daughter 
1982-83 108 34 495 17.7 
"It kind of makes 

407 131 1349 12.2 younger," he continues. "I had everything I wanted.
Molly, 23. Now they're in the process ofraising No.5-me reflect back to when I was 
a seven-year-old terror named Maggie. What does And here's a young kid who doesn't have it. It's made meMaggie think ofher big brotherJohn? 
put everything in perspective, and it's a chance for me
"He's a nice brother," she says. "He fights with me to give something back to the University and to the
sometimes, and we play football on the floor. I can beat community."
him at gin! "He's nice. I miss him a lot when he's away playing 
• 

basketball." In two months, Notre Dame -the team and the Uni­
Last Sunday, however, John and Maggie were togeth­versity -will lose John Paxson to graduation. His will 
er to celebrate the latter's first Holy Communion at the be a tough act to follow.
Log Chapel. University president Rev. Theodore M. His most vocal admirer is his coach. Many have
Hesburgh, C.S.C. presided. jokingly accused Digger Phelps of wanting to adopt
"That was a very special moment for both of us," says John as his second son, but his respect remains sincere.
John. "We have a really special relationship between us. "He was a mature kid wqen he came here, but he's
She was excited to meet Fr. Hesburgh, and it was nice of grown to be a man," says Phelps. "Now he's ready for
him to take the time to he there." 
1 

anything. The NBA will be a part of his life, but he's got
Digger Phelps has known the Paxson family for nearly other endeavors -he could go to law school. But he's
ten years, ever since he tried to recruit Jim to come to 
•· ..... ··,:1sensitivity for because he's a
Notre Dame. He feels that the development ofJohn as a always had a people, 
sensitive person himself.

person comes directly from his roots. ·"He's that way on the court-with his unselfishness. 
"It all goes back to his family," says Phelps. "I knew And he's that way off the court, too. He didn't have to
his family because of his brother Jimmy. We recruited get involved with the Little Brother program. He
Jimmy. "They're just quality people," says Phelps in admira­
doesn't have to go out ofhis way to talk to people. That's just John Paxson."
tion. "Thev have their priorities in line. John's never had an ego pr~blem, even in high school." A star athlete. A Dean's List student. A family man. A 
Perhaps no one knows· more about John Paxson as a 
Big Brother. A humble and sensitive human being ... That's John Paxson.
human being than his mother. She is the one person he 
Live for God and His People as a ... 
turns to for advice, consolation, reassurance. Forgive her, however, if she doesn't know too much about her son's accomplishments on the court. She is 
Also contributing to the series were sports writers Louie Somogyi and Will Hare. 
Capuchin

hardly ever able to sit through an entire game -"I get 
terribly nervous," she says. In 1979, 1
w~h~il~ediJ~o~h~n~w?lias~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
a what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a religious

These four 
fraternity of men trying to liveihe Gospel in 
~ the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in toclay's -': · world.

years have 
_ Join us in promoting peace, education, .~u and ju~tice--i~ ghet_toes... i~ jails... in
been the 
.,. "•,1 soup k1tchens ... m panshes... m halfway houses... on radio and TV. Join us in working with and for the
greatest 
advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, 

. 
native Americans and people of the -~ .:rd

experzence 
World in Central America. Check out whe,her being a Capuchin, committed to living for God and his people,

I've ever had. 
in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more information . 

And it's all 
........................ Clip and Mail Today! _____________________ _ Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue, 
because of 
Detroit, Ml 48207 Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. 
Name Age ________
you ... 
College __________Address ________ 
-John Pax.wn i\1arch /(), 1983 
City _______ State ______Zip _____ 
The Observer 

Ruth Kaiser's heroic final six minutes helped Notre Dame beat Indiana, 63-61, in overtime Wednesday night. The Irish women are now awaiting <J call from the NCAA for aberth in the national tournament. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
FELLOWSHIPS AVAILABLE 
The Department of Linguistics at the University of Illinois at Chicago offers work leading to the MA in theoretical and applied linguistics, including an MA in TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages). 
For the 1983-84 year, the department will award a generous number of Fellowships to graduate students qualifying in merit competition. Awards include a Tuition and Fee Waiver, plus a stipend of $1,500 at minimum. In adClition, other kinds of financial aid are available to students. 
The  deadline  for  applications  is  April  30,  1983.  For  
applications and in form ation, write to:  /  
Dale E. Woolley  
Acting Head  

Department of Linguistics 
1 
Univeristy of Illinois at Chicago 
Box 4348 
Chicago, lllinios 60680 

f 
,. 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 

Mary DiStanislao, currently on a recruiting trip to her native Newjer­sey, has decided to keep hersdfvery occupied this weekend. It's not a bad idea, because these are very anxious times for Mary D. and many other women's basketball coaches. 
While the Athlt:tic Department waits for the call that will put Notre Dame in its first-ever NCAA Tourna­ment (the brackets are scheduled to he announced at .3:.30 p.m. tomor­row), DiStanislao and the Irish women will be practicing at the ACC. That practice should he neces­sary, since Notre Dame, 20-7, figures to he invited to the National Women's National Invitational Tournament in Amarillo, Texas, even if they are locked out of the NCAA. 
"I think we certainly deserve a 


PRICES GOOD THRU 

~ IOTTLES • BEER GENERIC 
SAT., MARCH 12th 

~~~ BEER 
Friday, March 11, 1983 -page 10 

NCAA or Women's NIT 
Irish await word from tourneys 
hid," ~ays DiStanislao. "We've done all you could ask of an indl·pendent. We've won 20 games. We've won some big games. I think we're the best team in this part of the country, so I think we should definitely go." 
The lrbh women improved their position immensely by defeating In­diana, 6.3-61, in a gut-wrenching overtime game Wednesday night. The Hoosiers, the Big Ten's second­place team, play host to Ohio State in a game of no small importance to Notre Dame tonight. 
If Indiana heats Ohio State, the 
Hoosiers and Buckeyes will share 
the Big Ten's top rung. That will 
mean that the Jrbh will have 
knocked off the leaders of the Big Ten ( IU ), Gateway (Illinois State} and Mid-American (Miami) con­ferences. 
"I'm very proud of this team," says DiStanislao. "This team bounced hack from the (Louisiana) Tech 
-·~XCC,llK<~IC!Oia!KMCOWZl-:"'~~®l"; 
attentiOn all bom€RS . 
who WILl B€ m th€ l>aytona aR€a on 

&J.{P~..Q... 
~~-LABATT'S'<q
§ CAIADIAI ' 
{7' BEER o• ALE ~ 
v:-t 299J~
u 
lir&CII • • 
~ 

YOU'RE WASTING YOUR IIONEY BUYING ANYWHERE ELSE! 
LIQUOR WINES AND CHAMPAGNE KINGS CELLAR VALUE 211
CANEI 

IIIII
I:IIIOIYODU 
PAUL MASSON 
I~ UTII 1..0 LITEI 1.15UTEI 
LIGHT 3" 
game (an Hl-.39 wipeout by the No. 
I team in the country) and won six 
straight. It's quite a turnaround from 
last season." 
Last season, a 16--1 Notre Dame 
team dropped out of post-season 
coru;ideration by losing its last five. 
The turnabout has convinced Mary 
D. that the lri~h women have earned a shot at the national title. 
.The Irish are considered perhaps 
on the fringe of the nation's top .32 
teams. The NCAA's :36-team tleld is 
filled by 12 conference cl}ampions 
who will have automatic bids and 
eight champions who must play off 
to join the final .32. That leaves 16 
at-large bids. 
"There aren't enough bids to in­clude all the good teams in the country," says The Philadelphia In­quirer's women's basketball author­ity, Mel Greenberg. "Notre Dame is one ofthe top teams in the Midwest, but a lot ofteams with good records won't be going." 
It seems that Notre Dame may be destined for a trip to Amarillo, Texas, and the Women's NIT. The 16-team tournament will begin Thursday, March 17 and run through Sunday, March 20. With (undefeated) Oral Roberts, Stephen 
F. Austin, and Nevada-Las Vegas probably in that field, .the Irish women would have a legitimate shot to win the tournament. 
DiStanislao, for now, is hoping for a door to open to the NCAA's pany. 
"Notre Dame has a good record, and they haven't lost to anybody they weren't supposed to lose to," says Greenberg, "and it's not uni­mportant that they got a good crowd for Tech. I think that the second door that opens will be opened for Notre Dame. (The first will open for Florida State.) But chances are very slim that that door will open." 
KEGS OLD MIL. . $26.99 MILLER .. $29.99 LITE .. $29.99 GENERIC ... $24.99 
DEPOSIT $10 KEG $45 TAP NO RENTAL FEE IF RETURNED 
WITHIN S DAVS PruCESGOODATSOUTHBENOAVE 
STORE ONLY 
QUARTS 
MILLER LITE ..... 8.99 BUD ............ 9.29 OLD 
MILWAUKEE ... 7.49 

SORIAASTI 
451 
1)111
SPUMANTE 
TAYLOR CHAMPAGNES '"ll 4" RIUNITE 
LAMIIUSCO 3"
'111111 
,\11\1
CARLO ROSSI 4" 
ALMADEll 'I UHI 
9" 
MOUNTAIN WillES 3 FOI GALLO PREMIUMS u\:.211 
SORIA lllll soo 
LAMBRUSCO 3 FOI GALLO SHERRIES 
~-------------r----­
1 THURSDAY ONLY I FRIDAY ONLY lA I SITUIDAY ONLY1 l-10-ll 1 3-\1-ll _:-~ s-12-ll 
I POPOV 't I WINDSOR gI LOWENBRAU ~~ 
1 VODKA 6I CANADIAN ..:... 
I 699 I 949 .,.~~ I I 849
I I I
I I 
CASE 
1.7HITEI 1.75 LITEI LIIIIT 1 PEl PEISON LIIIIT I PEl PEISOII.
I I

I ! 
LIMIT 1PU PUSOM 

~-----~~------~---­
THURSDAY ONLY FIIDAY ONLY
I I

1 I
3-11-ll 3-11-ll SAIUIDAY ONLY

I I 
~ --~ l-U-ll 

I BUDWEISER~·.. I MILLER ~ I JACK 
I 689 ~~:: :699 ~ 
I DANIELS I CASE --· I .. 
-·· •699

I 
CASE ' I 
75111L
I
LIIIIT 1 PU PERSON LIMIT I PEl PUSOM UIIIT I Pll 

r 
-
~ -~-~-------,_---------~ 
IheO~rve~======================================= 
Weekend 
Friday, March 11, 1983 -page 11 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 

.. IN FACT, YOU HAV6 MY !"eRSONAl-WORV Of HONOR 
THE: D£FEN5£ 

AS A L.Ai!NER ANI7 A 0WTLE ­
FURIH£RMORE: ... MAN 1HAT MR.I71BB5 H(;RE­
RWU£ST5 A 

HE, UH,.
SHORT REG£5SN€VER MUR17€RW IHOS£ 

FOR WNCH. 

I
61+ SHRINffiS AND S€RVW 

\

1 IH~M AT A 

'-BARI3WVE:. 

Simon Jeb Cashin 

Fate Photius 

M£ AND SQU.A W CAN
Wl--l't' DO You. HA.V£"
W£ MUST LEAVt 
NO LONCrER SLE£P IN 


SPRING BR[AK
· To 4-0, Om·HiA NOOKAN*
SouTH BEND 
1 


ACROSS 28 Foolish 1 Attention· talk getter 29 Reflux 
5 Shopping 32 Family 
center circle 10 Exchange IT'ember 14 American 33 -beaver 


Indian 34 Status­15 Light 35 Homeof units the Cards 16 Take-out 39 Neighbor words of Eng. 17 Home of the 40 Carried Orangemen 41 Delivery 20 Verbatim trucks 
quotes 42 Beatty or 21 Ease Rorem 22 Stygian 43 Bedazzles 23 Baptism, 44 Wordsof 

The Daily Crossword 
e.g. threat 
25 Bligh's 46 Soho ship domestic 

Thursday's Solution 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
3/11 '83 

47 Go a round or two 48 Mart of 
yore 51 Replace 55 Home of 
the Spurs 58 Hebrew letter: var. 59 Mine 
accesses 60-mater 61 Hatchery 62 Homeof 
the brave 63 Have a look 
DOWN 1 Mannerism 2 Charon's 
beat 3 Ilk 4 Attack 

impetuously 5 Game 6 Vigorous 7 Lumberjack 
gear 8 Buddhist sect 
9 Enzyme 10 Fashion 11 Cheviot 
or tweed 12 Taj Mahal site 13 Annoyingly slow 18 Hypocrisy 
19 Singer 
Ethel 23 Unbending 24 Singer 
Burl 25 Washup 
facility 26 Bizarre 27 Leaderless 28 "Daisy 
Miller" 
author 29 As good 30 Scottish 
poet 31 Idaho's capital 33 Chemical compound 
36 Wendover native 37 Hawkeye 
State 38 Vault 44 Challenge 45 Engrossed 46 Slyness 47 Personal 
staff of 
a ruler 48-example 49 Hard blow 50 Wallet 
items 51 Curtail 52 Car part 53 Dub 54 A Romanov 56 Do handwork 57 Verse form 
Campus 
• 
~:I <; p.m. -Econ. Dept. Public Policy Workshop, "forming and Managing National In­dustrial Policy', Pat Choate, Senior Policy Analyst, TRW, Inc.. ~~I O'Shaughnessy IIall. 

• 
~:~0 p.m. -Philosophy Dept. Outside Speaker Series, Dr. Jaegwom Kim. L'niversity of Michigan. Library Lounge. •--1:50 p.m. -Chemistry Seminar, Reactions of Electron Rich Transition :\ktal llvdt Dr. Marcetta \'.Darensbourg, Texa~ A&\1. 11 ~ :'\ euwland, 


•"": IS p.m.-Stations ofthe Cross, Fr. Chester A. Soleta. C.S.C., Sacred Heart Church. 

; T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
11 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
12:30 p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2H 3'f .~-2-I Contact 16 NBC Nighth· News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 3'f Over Easy 16 \1-A-!->-11 22 Lan·rne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The \lacNeii/Lehrer Report 16 All in tht· Familv 22 Familv Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 3-i Straight Talk 16 The Powers of \latthew Star 22 Dukes of Hazzard 28 Benson 34 \X·ashington Week in Review 28· At Ease 34 Wall !'>treet We(,k 16 Knight Rider 22 Dallas 28 The Renaga<.les 34 Business Perspective 
34 (;olden Age ofTelevision 16 Remington Steele 22 bk"on Crest 28 Tales of the <oold \tonkcy 16 NcwsCenter 16 l2 22 Eyewitne~~ ~<:'\\·~ 28 :'l<nv,w;llch 2H 3'f Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tontght Show 22 CBS Late \lovie 28 ABC :-<ews :-.Jightline 16 SCT\' Comcdv :\etwork 

I _,­
The Far Side 

' 
• 
~ 

,..............,...........,..,..,....,_.....,..........,~ ..........,......,......................,.....,....,......,..........~..,....,.. ...................,..........~.......l 
~~....s';:~.-:~:>a~:;~·.aa:o;;~~liWi(~~~'~"""~'}'MI(·~'l·· 
~ The Notre DGme Student Union needs ~ 
I nior Bar ctoseb :
I ENTHUSIASTIC, HARDWORKING, II , ;.. 
~ AND mOTIVATED PEOPLE ~ i SORRY P€0Pl€-We ve all .,, 
~ to Gssume nextyeGr's . \ 
~~--taken o~~ ~oR the Sun­
~ commiSSIONER POSITIONS ~ ~ ApplicGtions mGy be picked up Gtthe Student ~ 1 We'll open aqa1n on the 
'-M 
..

~ Union Office on the second floor of LGfortune. \ 
I· 
.-.~ Webnesbay Back ~Rom BReakL________________.P.~~c!tt~~;_fJl._c~.~.hJl._______J ~~~._,>~:.,,,.i;f,,..1jj.--~,.)!11·.IB.l··,·-ifall¢l-.:i"·,o~··A·~.,...___ 

----~---------~-~ -~------------·------------------------------­
-------------~-~-~-------~-~---·~--------... 


• 
Second oftwo parts 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Editor 

'john Paxson's a heck ofa player. lie has class." ­Bruce Parkhill, head coach, William and Mary. 
Not only doesjohn Paxson have class, hegoes to class too. Not only does he go to class, he actually studies. Not only does he study ... well, you know the story by now. 
Last week, Paxson was named a first-team academic ail-American for the second straight year, and undoubt· t>dly will be the only person in the nation to make the first team in both athletics and academics -for the second year in a row. 
.. 
Three A's and an A-minus last fall gave Paxson, a marketing major, a .'UPS grade point average and Dean's List honors for still another semester. Consider­ing that Notre Dame's three biggest games this season -Kentucky, UCLA and Indiana -came just a week 
before final exams, a 3.875 is quite an accomplishment. But it wasn't always that easy. "I really struggled my first semester here ( 2.7 GPA)," 
say~ Paxson. "My SAT scores were average compared to everybody ebe here. I worry a lot about my grades, but I've learned to budget my time better. 
"I study at odd hours of the day -usually mornings and early afternoons before practice. Now it comes a lot easier. 
"It will mean a lot more than athletic honors as time goes on," he continues. "No matter who you are, basket· ball is going to end. Also, !look back at it as something I can give my parents in return for what they've given me." 
How much academics means to Paxson was ex­hibited at last Tuesday's basketball banquet. After receiving the student-athlete award from the ND Club ofSt.Joseph Valley, he said to the audience, "This award 
John Paxson: He's a guard, but he's also a Dean's List student and Big Brother 
"-means more to me than any other I've ever received, 
Andree a giant as ND wins, seniors say goodbye 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Hollywood couldn't have have produced a better script in Notre Dame's season ending 75-51 victory over Northern Iowa last night at the ACC. 
Sure, John Paxson was his usual brilliant selfwith 25 points in his final home game. Yes, Tom Sluby was a key factor with his fine outside shooting and season high I'i points. Ofcourse, Dan Duffonce again put on a passing clinic by dishing out six assists, and even brought the crowd to its feet by attempting two (count 'em) shots from the field (One of many standing ovations on this night ensued when he made one of them). And yes, Ken Barlow continued to provide strong support off the bench by scoring eight points and hauling down seven rebounds. 
But on this night, senior Tim Andree stole the show in his final hurrah at the ACC. 
It was only four years ago that Andree was one of the hottest items in collegiate basketball. Only the names Ralph Sampson, Sam Bnwie and Steve Stipanovich were ahead of his as the best high-school big-men in the country to build a champion~hip around in the co11egiate ranks. 
Since then. hard times have fallen on the former Michigan Player of the Year. There were flashes of greatness -outplaying current NBA All-Star Buck Williams in the second half of a victory against Maryland, helping stifle three-time Player of the Year Ralph Sampson to 10 points and nine rebounds in the memorable 57-';6 victory over then number one Virginia two years ago-but they were played in the shadows ofhis more celebrated teammates, Tripucka, Woolridge, Jackson, and Pax~on. 
Over his four-year stay he became one ofthe most mocked varsity athletes at Notre Dame. from his lack of finesse and tendency to pick up three fouls in a minute, to having the wrong skin color for his position, Andree was constantly held at fault in tht· minds of the spectators. 
His shortcomings in the collegiate game were even relayed over national television "Digger has told Andree not to take any shot beyond a layup," laughed AI McGuire in an NBC telecast. 
Then there have been the injuries. From his two bandaged fingers last night, to more seri0us injuries in his ankle and wrist, Andree has rarely in his four years for the Irish played at 100 percent physical shape. 
Finally, the senior year, when one is supposed to shine after having paid his dues, Andree took a backseat to three freshman. Despite dropping 30 pounds over the summer by engaging in a most determined effort to be all the things he can he for his final year, he learned early this year that things would not go his way. His I.S scoring and rebounding averages in an average playing time of nine minutes per game thb season validated that belief. 
"Timmy had a new role this season," says Phelps, "and he accepted it. That'~ a credit 
see GOODBYE, page 8 


No.. 4: An All-America player and person 
because we're all here as students first." 
John's parents feel the same way. 
"Of all the things he's accomplished, I'm most proud of his scholastic attitude and what he's don~ with it," says hh father. jim Sr. "Making Dean's List and academic all-America -to us it shows what he feels is important to him. He reali:~~es that life is not just throwing a ball through a hoop." 
John's mother, Jackie, received many a phone call from her distressed freshman son three years ago. 
"I remember that he used to get so worried about a test that he'd call home the night befor'C' an important exam," she say~. "I'd talk to him and reassure him. He started out slow -but he was only an average student, in the upper third of his class at Alter. 
"It was an honor for John to come here in the first place. I think his academic success is his way of thank­ing the university for the scholarship they gave him. 
• 
"He is so unselfish and so smart. I'm just in love with him.·· -fom Folliard, head coach, Stonehill Col­lege. 
So is, it seems, much of tlw coed population at Notre Dame. 
"Yeah, I ~et asked to a lot of 'Screw-Your­Roommates,"' 'ays Paxson, blushing. "But I never go. I politely refuse. You don't ~ee me out too often. Every once in a whik I'll go vut to a bar sometimes, but not that much. 
"My idea of a good time is JUSt to sit by myself and relax in my room. It's a ~ood way for me to collect my thoughts and get baskethall off mv mind." 
One must look real hard to find .John Paxson around campus. At 6-2. he doe~n't really sta1.d above a crowd. Unlike otht, ~otre Dame athlete~ pa~t _md present, Pax­son pre'fer3 to re,nain anonymou,. ;.; blend in with the rest of the Mudents. 
One could hear the straim of"Rarper's Delight" and know instantly that OrL.ndo " oolndge was walking 
~,·c PAXSOI\, pa~e 9 


