w 
• • • Nuclear weapons-page 5 

VOL. XVII, NO. 113 the independent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 1983 

Republican mayoral hopeful Bernard Epton looks on as Mic­hael Lavelle, left, of the Chicago board ofelections commission, reads offa slip ofpaper Monday at Chicago's City Hall during a lottery for ballot positions in the upcoming general election. Lavelle drew position 10 for Epton which wasjane Byrne's posi­tion in the mayoral primaries. Epton's opponent in the April 12 election is Democrat Harold Washington. (AP Photo) 
flesburgh speaks to Law School 
Accidental attack feared most by scientists 
to strive for "verifiable nuclear do to influence the government, agreements leading to total disarma­Hesburgh, downplaying the ef­ment," Hesburgh explained. Al­fectiveness of correspondence by though he is not in favor of a letter, advised students instead to unilateral agreement, he feels that a "learn what the problem is ...to get bilateral freeze is the first step it clear in your head. Most people toward the group's goal. don't know what they're talking When asked what students could about -even the White House.." 
ND Engr. student injured in Fitz laboratory explosion 
By MARGARET FOSMOI; 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 

A Notre Dame engineering student is listed in good condition at Memorial Hospital today following an explosion in Fitzpatrick Hall early yesterday morning. 
Jaime Ayarza, a senior from Puerto Rico, suffered bruises to the abdomen and a possible ruptured ear drum when a high pressure tank exploded in a chemical engineering laboratory in Fitzpatrick Hall at I :30 a.m. yesterday. 
Two other students in the lab at the time ofthe accident were not injured. The explosion occurred when an improper regulator was used on a gas compressor. 
According to Andrew Seckner, a senior engineering student who was working with Ayarza at the time, "We were about to compress ethylene gas to a high pressure when the explosion occurred." 
The regulator "was of the wrong type," according to Seckner, but "we didn't realize that at the time." Ayarza was leaning over the air tank opening the air valve when the explosion occurred. Seckner was standing next to him. "I had my back to him when the explosion occurred," said Seck­ncr. "I dove to the floor." 
Ayarza apparently was hit in the abdomen, but managed to close the air valve that he had opened before losing consciousness, according to Seckner. 
see LAB, page 4 By CAROLE L. CLARK and DIANE M. DIRKERS 
News Staff 
The greatest fear of the nuclear arms race is not that of"pushing the button," but of accidental attack spurred by computer failure, according to a consensus of interna­tionally renowned scientists, said University President Father Theodore Hesbu;gh in a lecture yes­terday at the Law School. 

.Hesburgh spoke of his role in the . formation of this worldwide coali­tion designed to bring together scientists and religious leaders in or­der to draft a joint statement on nuclear arms to be presented to governments of all nations. At the first meeting of the scientists in Vienna last January, the group reached two conclusions on the issue based on their technical ex­pertise, he said. 
Civil defense in nuclear war is im­possible: "No amount of money and planning can empty a city in five or ten minutes," Hesburgh stated. Secondly, a "limited" war is likely to escalate into a conflagration, thus making the prospect of "winning" a nuclear war impossible, he said. 
These two conclusions were in­
corporated into a document which 
was signed by nearly every scientist 
present, including the Soviet 
representatives. Although the 
Chinese delegates agreed with the 
conclusions reached, their govern­
ment would not permit them to sign 
the statement. 

This document was sent to the lar­gest academies of science in the world, and the recipients · were asked to meet at the Vatican in Sep­tember to join with religious leaders in support of the statement. At that meeting, the religious leaders came out with a commentary on the scien­tists' declaration, fully supporting all points made. 
Hesburgh plans three more meetings ofthe two groups in Egypt, Japan, and India. "We have a long way to go ...," he said. "In the next three meetings we hope to get ap­propriate results and then to get academic and other professional groups together." 
In speaking of the Soviet scien­tists' involvement in the coalition, Hesburgh stressed that "Russia is in the same ftx as we are ...both sides have their hawks and doves." Al­though the Russian scientists agree wholeheartedly with the need for eventual nuclear disarmament, it is often difficult to gain the support of the Kremlin, he said. The Soviet government's paperwork involved in attaining permission to attend the Vatican conference took so long to process that the religious leaders were unable to participate, he said, but they are expected to be present at the next meetings. 
Hesburgh continued by telling the students of a call he received from the Soviet embassy, offering to fly him to Russia to speak to the Rus­sian Academy of Sciences on the issue ofnuclear disarmament. 
•The ultimate goal of the grol!p is 
Sending troops ruled out ­

U.S. to maintain aid to EI Salvador 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan told congressional leaders yesterday he is determined to provide El Salvador's army with the training-possibly some on U.S. soil -and firepower to repel leftist in­surgents, but "We will never Americanize this conflict." 
Reagan fla.tly ruled out sending combat troops into El Salvador, and promised that no advisers would en­ter battle with Salvadoran units. He stressed, though, that "if El Salvador falls, no country in Central America will be safe." 
Aday after American Roman Cath­olic leaders called for the ad­ministration to press for peace talks in the civil war, Reagan declared "I will not support elgotiations that short-circuit the democratic process and carve up power behind people's backs." 
However, the president indicated he could support talks dwelling on how rival factions could participate in open elections. 
Reagan's remarks to the congres­sional leaders were quoted by spokesman Larry Speakes aboard Air Force One after Reagan and his party departed for Central Florida for a half-day visit. 
At the State Department, spokes­man John Hughes said it s "conceivable" Salvadoran officials might meet opposition leaders, and the department said in a statement that the United States might help in arranging such meetings. 
Hughes said the administration has "shied away from the term dialogue in terms ofpower sharing," but he added the Salvadoran govern­ment has made clear its desire for democratic elections and for discus­sions on "amnesty, security issues, campaigning that would provide an opportunity for full and safe par­ticipation by all parties." 
"The United States welcomes those assurances," said. "We support a dialogue on how to participate in the elections and the evolving democratic institutions." 

Sen. Charles Percy, R-111., said after the meeting at the White House that the administration is considering bringing Salvadoran troops to Fort Bragg, N.C., for training. Percy is chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. 
Sen. Henry "Scoop" Jackson, D­Wash., said no decision was an­nounced at the session concerning the possibility of sending more U.S. advisers to the Central American na­tion. But "We need more than we have there no" Jackson said. "The training is not adequate. I think that is a unanimous judgment." 
Reagan disclosed last week he wants to send an additional 560 milion in military aid to El Salvador this year. A senior presidential ad­viser, Edwin Meese, has suggested nearly doubling the current limit of 55 U.S. military advisers there. 

HPC recommends 0-C lottery revisions 
By CECILIA LUCERO 

StaffReporter 
A proposal to limit the number of students selected in the anticipated housirig lottery to from one-third to one-half of the necessary amount was passed at last night's meeting of the Hall Presidents Council. Stu­dents that are forced to move off campus will probably take others with them, filling the quota, the HPC reasoned. 
Suggesting a possible lottery proceedure, the HPC also proposed that several groups of students be exempt from the lottery. 
The HPC suggested that exemp­tions of athletes from the lottery should be limited to those on full scholarship -rather than varsity athletes as a whole -since only full scholarships guarantee housing on campus. The HPC also recom­mended that Resident Assistants, Student Senators, elected hall presi­dents and vice presidents, and hand­icapped students should be included in the exemption. 
Director of Student Residences Father Michael Heppen said at the meeting that the HPC's proposals for the lottery would be given to the central staff of Student Affairs, who will eventually decide upon the pro­cedure. 
Heppen added that "this is the first year since I've been director that it (the on-campus housing) has reached absurd proportions. And the reason is simply because of the fact that we have an inelastic supply and an inelastic demand." 
Ifthe lottery is deemed necessary, it be held during the first week of April, he said. 
Other items discussed included a proposal that each dorm wait until after R.A. selections before holding hall elections. This would provide an opportunity for those not chosen as R.A.'s to campaign for office. 
The HPC also introduced a resolu­tion for making MCI long distance service available next year to Notre Dame students through the Student Union. 
Sue Fleck, chairperson of Lil' Sibs weekend, reminded HPC members of the upcoming event, scheduled for April 15-1 7. Fleck stressed a "responsibility factor" needed to en­force the underage drinking law since 600 high school students are expected to attend the weekend event. According to Fleck, no hall parties will be permitted through­out the weekend. 
Ed Cunningham from Holy Cross Hall announced that the Holy Cross Softball Invitational will take place March 25-27. A second place prize of S4S has been added to the 590 first place award. 
St. Ed's President Brian Crouth an­nounced that Fisher Hall was that latest recipient ofthe Sowder Award for the most spirited hall. Walsh, Keenan and Zahm halls received honorable mentions. 

~-~-~------~-~--~·~-~------­
Wednesday, March 9, 1983-page 2


ewsBrie!J 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Aseries ofthreepublic lectures on the "Integration ;;f Learning" by Max Lerner, theW. Harold and Martha Welch Professor of American Studies at Notre Dame, will take place at 7:30p.m. on March 21, 28 and April 11 in the Hayes Healy Auditoriuim, the American Studies department announced this week. Lerner, distin­guished author, columnist and lecturer, recently announced plans to spend a second year on the Notre Dame faculty. A columnist with theNew York Post andLosAngeles Times Syndicate, he is the author of more than a dozen books and monographs, including Ideas are Weapons, The Mind and Faith ofjustice Holmes, The Unfinished Country and The Age ofOverkill. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum con­
cert; originally scheduled for tonight at 8:1 5 in the Annenberg Auditorium has been postponed. The concert will now take place tomorrow at 8:15 in the Great Hall ofO'Shaughnessy Hall. Directed by Professor Ethan Haimo, the theme of the concert will be "The Renaissance Chanson." They will perform music of the 15th and 16th centuries by such composers as Dufay, Busmois, Goudimel, Sermisey, Lasso, and Clemens non Papa. Members of the Collegium Musicum are; Doris Starn -soprano and recorder, Olivia Wu ­Alto, Brian McLinden -Tenor, Ethan Haimo -Lute and Bass, and Doug Kinsey -Recorders. The concert, presented by the Notre Dame Music Dept., is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Indiana University students at Bloomington 
are cooperating in a massive measles immunization program that appears to be working, State Health Commissioner Ronald G. Blankenbaker said yesterday, but he warned "there is a strong pos­sibility we will have to go ahead with some action against students who don't get themselves protected before they come back from spring break." One possibility is exclusion from classes, he said. As of yesterday, the total number ofconfirmed measles cases was 176, up three from Monday. Another 150 suspected cases have been reported. Only two confirmed cases were reported in 1982 in In­diana, Blankenbaker said. Blankenbaker said from Indianapolis that an estimated 2,000 IU students were immunized Monday, bringing to 15,000 the estimated number of students who have received the shots. There at 32,000 students at Bloomington. At Notre Dame, a 
similar innoculation program has been initiated, and free shots are being given at the Student Health Center. -The Observer 
Sales ofGeneral MotorsCorp.'s X-cars have gone on the skids sincejanuary after reports that rear brakes in some early models have a tendency to lock "What really hurts the cars is GM's slow reaction to the problems," Eric Phillips of Phillips Pontiac in Corona, Calif., said Monday. GM recalled 240,000 of the 1980 X-car models last month, more than three years after they were in­Troduced. GM sold 7,896 Chevy Citations last month, off 73 percent from 29,608 in February 1981. Pontiac Phoenix sales were 2, 133, down 69 percent from February 1982 and 76 percent below February 1981. Sales of the other X-cars, Oldsmobile Omega and Buick Skylark, also were off. -AP 
A bill that would have allowed a "guilty but mentally ill" verdict in criminal trials was rejected 24-10 yesterday by the West Virginia state Senate. The bill would have allow.ed a guilty deft:ndant to be sent to a mental institution until cured, then sent to prison. "I don't believe an insane person should be punished for criminal acts," Sen. Tod Kaufman, Democrat of Kanawha, said in op­position. "How can a person be guilty .. .ifhe had no idea ofwhat he was doing?" The bill was prompted by the verdict of innocent by reason of insanity given John Hinckley, the young man who shot President Reagan nearly two years ago. -AP 
The last episode of "M*A *S*H," which at­
tracted the largest audience for any single show in televisiol/l history, 
led CBS to a big ratings victory for the week ended March 6. CBS 
estimated that 125 million people saw the final episode ofthe com­
edy series last Monday. The two-hour show got a rating of60.3 and a 
share of 77 percent. It was seen in 50.3 million homes, and nearly 
eight out ofevery 10 TV sets in use were tuned to "M* A *S*H." Adver­
tisers paid 5450,000 per 30-second commercial for the show, which 
broke the ratings record set by the "Who ShotJR.?" episode ofCBS' 
"Dallas" on Nov. 21, 1980. The "Dallas" episode had aratingof53.3, 
which in 1980 figured out to 40.6 million homes. At that time a 
ratings point equaled 763,000 homes but it has since increased to 
833,000 homes. That means "M*A*S*H" reached nearly 10 million 
more homes. The audience estimate breaks the record for a single 
show of 111.5 million, which NBC calculated for Super Bowl XVII 
last Jan. 30. Two movies shown opposite "M*A*S*H" finished at the 
bottom of the ratings. "The Night the Bridge Fell Down," shown on 
NBC, was third from last, and"American Gigolo" on ABC was second 
from last. -AP 
A60 percent chanceoflight snow. Cold with highs in the mid 30s. A 90 percent chance of snow today, tonight and tomorrow. Colder. Low in the low 20s and highs in the upper 20s. ­
AP 

Convention II teaches 3 C's 

This year, each of us, in his own way has begun to celebrate the coming of spring a bit earlier than usual. Although I must confess that I also have enjoyed my share of leisurely afternoons basking in the sunshine, my springtime began during the first week in February, when l served as a staff member for a model Constitu­tional Convention known as Convention II. 
For the past four years, I have associated the begin­ning ofspringtime with my involvement in Convention 
II. By working with high school students and helping them to increase their awareness of and appreciation for our nation's Constitution, I gain the sense of renewed motivation, enthusiasm, and optimism which one traditionally associates with the change ofseasons. 
Convention II is an annual gathering of high school students in the nation's capital. During each four-day session, delegates representing more than 20 states and the District ofColumbia and working in one ofsix com­mittees, draft and debate proposed amendments to the 
Constitution. If a Delegate is able to get his Resolution ap­proved by his committee colleagues, the proposal will then be considered and acted upon by the entire as­sembly. In order to become a part of the Constitution, the Resolution must receive a two-thirds majority vote: this year, (for the first time in three years), the Conven~ tion approved a Constitu­tional amendment, which called for the direct election ofthe President. 
The Convention was founded in 1975 in New Rochelle, New York by Bob Feinman, a proponent ofex­periential education. Fein­man envisioned the Convention as a second Constitutional Convention, in which high school stu­dents would be challenged to dissect the existing foundations ofgovernment and attempt to write a new Constitution for the next two hundred years. By provid­ing young people with the opportunity to learn via "hands-on" experience, Convention II also challenges them to "build upon that which the Founders wrought." 
In February, 1976, Feinman and Mamaroneck High School student Tim Leighton formed a partnership which was to have a significant impact upon the development ofConvention II. As interest and involve­ment in the Convention increased, changes were made: the Convention site was moved to Washington, D.C., the program was further modified by a group ofGeorge­town University students, and a National Advisory Council consisting of high school teachers was formed to ensure the continued development ofConvention II 

"Too" 
Design Editor.... ..... Troy Illig -too cute 
Design Assistant. ...... Carole Clark -too 
broke to go 
Typesetters.Reggie Daniel-too strange 
Tom MacLennan -just "too" News Editor Mark Worscheh-too cool Copy Editor.... Diane Dirkers -too wild, too great! 
Features Layout .....)oe Musumeci -too 
bad Editorials Layout..... Paul McGinn-too 
insane Sports Copy Editor........ Tim Neely -too 
quiet ND Day Edltor.....)ane Panfil -too snon SMCDayEditor.....Tim Petters -too far 
Typist............. Betsy Porter -too intense AdDesign .. ..... too anonymous Photographer Rachel Blount -too small GuestAppearances..."BOOOM" Fosmoe K2 -Partners in "crime'' 4:20PM and always Chris Needles one cookie (I hope) Nuclear Weapons notes cigarette break, please Tostitos & dip (thanx Tom) Dennis &Jeb 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
··>~>.a!(~>.'S$.~,~~~Mill1 
JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT ANOTHER ST. PAT'S DAy WOULD 
I 
GO BY 'UNCELEBRATED'... ~.,.~.'.~. 
THE STUDENT UNION IS SPONSORING ~ 
A PRE-ST. PAT'S DAY PARTY 
I 
featuring I 
ONE OF THE TOP IRISH BANDS 

Ul€ Cl.Mlcy BRoth€RS Ii 
I 

Carol Camp 
Copy Editor 
Inside Wednesday 
as a method ofexperiential education. 
Although I have observed many changes in the Con­vention's format and structure during my four years of involvement, there is one element which has become an inherent component of the program: namely, the three "C's": cooperation, compromise, and community. Each of these aspects plays a vital role in the smooth operation of the Convention, and it is these three skill~ which high school students and college staff members retain long after the final bang of the gavel has echoed 
throughout the chamber of the House of Representatives. 
The first "C", · coopera­tion, is essential ifa delegate wishes to realize the development of his poten­tial as a part of the Conven~ tion, for without it. he will not be able to form the
H 
working relationships with his colleagues that con­stitute (no pun intended) the Convention. 
Secondly, developing the ability to compromise is not only politically expedient ­it is an invaluable tool which can be applied in the development of long-lasting friendships. 
The third "C", community is the synthesis of the lat­ter two elements, for it is the friendships rather than the yeas and nays that a delegate remembers most. 
In order for an individual to develop and to utilize the three "C's" which he possesses, he does not have to risk an untimely and icy demise by flying over the 14th St. bridge -rather, all he has to do. is look inside himself and consider the potential which he has to build upon that which be has wrought! 

Observer note______, 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not necessari~y represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 

The Observer 


Oil keyed Venezuelan advance, says IU dean 
By SONYA STINSON the ebb and flow of North Atlantic SeniorStaffReporter politics and economics," he said. Lombardi said that the country 
The discovery of petroleum in became preoccupied with the 

Venezuela initiated a rapid process desire to live as well as possible. He 
ofmodernization and an eager adop­compared the relationship between 
tion of Western material culture, Venezuela and the North Atlantic 
said John V. Lombardi, dean of the community to a wealthy individual 
International Program at Indiana shopping in a large department 
University. store. Venezuelan imports were and 
In his lecture "The Origins of a still are sometimes wasteful and 

Fragile Democracy: Prosperity, based on complex psychological 
Politics, and Petroleum in Modem desires and impulses. Oil wealth, 
Venezuela," given in the Library however, has brought the country 
Lounge yesterday, Lombardi traced more material well-being than most 
the historical and political back­of Latin America can afford, he said. 
ground of the South American The 27-year regime of Juan Vin­
country. Venezuela has been led cente Gomez from 1908 to 1935 
since 1935 by a technological elite, paved the way for technological and 
whose main concern has been to ex­political modernization, he ex­
ploit the country's petroleum, he plained. Gomez' often ruthless met­
said. hods of political suppression, 

including the exile of many political leaders, left the country without a traditional core of politicians after his death. The new generation of leaders who came out of exile to rule Venezuela had a new set 
of values which were influenced great­ly by the North Atlantic community, he said. 
Although Lombardi felt that Gomez employed the same methods in running Venezuela as he had in raising cattle, he recognized that the leader maintained the first extended eraofpeace in that country since the 

1 
1830's, while encouraging the 
development of Venezuelan oil 
resources. 
"Had there been no petroleum 
revenue, the death of Gomez would 
have released a tempest," he said. 
"The dominant element in 
Venezuela would be the military, 
not the technological elite." 

"For Venezuela, petroleum was a According to Lombardi, the good deal," Lombardi said, explain­country suffered at the start of its ing that the Venezuelans found oil modernization because ofthe lack of 
easier to produce than gold or silver. technological experts who could The wealth from this new resource govern efficiently. Inefficiency, generated a dramatic change in the along with inflation and corruption, 
culture of the country as well as in continue to be major problems, he its relationship to the rest of the said. world, he said. 
While in earlier years Venezuela Lombardi believed that the had been primarily an agricultural upcoming elections in Venezuela country, with the discovery of will be important, as the oil-rich petroleum it became complex and country tries to deal with the pos­industrialized, "closely attached to sibility ofa future economic crunch. 

Wednesday, March 9, 1983-page 3 
An estimated one-half million people jam Guatamala. Thepontiffifshaded by an umbrella Campo de Marte to attend a Mass celebrated by while standing at the altar at lower left center of Pope john Paul II Monday in Guatamala City, photo. ( APPhoto) 
Florida father of two 


Seller of babies attempts suicide 

FORT MYERS, Fla. (AP) -A their babies because they had no but did not ask him why he took the father who sold each of his two money for rent or food. poison. babies for S300 swallowed rat The couple pleaded no contest to "How do you talk to someone poison in a suicide attempt after child selling. Ocasio was sentenced who just tried to kill himself?" the learning that one ofthem had died of to a year in jail and his wife was given lawyer said. "It's obviously the situa­injuries suffered in a foster home. five years' probation. tion." 
Miguel Angel Ocasio, 28, tried to Charges against the buyers were The lawyer said Ocasio had once kill himself Monday night while on dismissed after they agreed to testify complained that Oscar may have leave from jail where he his servinga against the Ocasios. been abused in his state-assigned term for childselling, his lawyer said. The children were turned over to foster home and Miguel Jr. was 
the state Department of Health and moved to the Lee County Children's 

He was treated at a hospital and Rehabilitative Services and were Home after Oscar was hurt. released to Lee Mental Health Cen­placed in a foster home. While there, The couple had tried to regain ter. Officials at Lee refused to say if Oscar reportedly was scalded and custody of the boys, but a judge Ocasio was still there. broke an arm. On March 1, he was ruled inJanuary that the state should 
"We've just got one tragedy after brought to Lee Memorial Hospital begin adoption proceedings, despite another," said the Ocasio _family with a severe head injury. Liszewski's allegations about abuse lawyer, Leonard Liszewski. Oscar was pronounced dead Mon­in the foster home. "Hopefully, this is the last one." day morning after doctors un­Lee County deputies said yester­
Ocasio, who is unemployed, and hooked a respirator, Liszewski said. day that the foster parents told them his wife, Luce, 21, sold their sons Os­The coroner said the boy had been the boy suffered his most recent in­car, 2, and Miguel, 1, to two couples "brain dead" since he was brought jury when he fell and hit his head on in the Fort Myers area last June. to the hospital. the floor. 
A relative of the one of the pur­Ocasio was released from jail and The authorities have refused to chasers notified police. The pur­told to report back after the funeral. identify the foster parents or reveal chasers told prosecutors that the Liszewski said he rushed to the the conclusions of an autopsy per­Ocasios told them they were selling hospital after learning about Ocasio formed Monday. 
Surrenders peacefully 
~~ 

your flower alternative 



Man takes 30 hostages in bank 
ST. PATRICK'S DAY SPECIAL 

LOSANGELES(AP)-Aman who said he had a bomb and "wanted to dethrone President Reagan" took up to 30 people hostage in a Hollywood bank yesterday afternoon before surrendering peacefully to a small army ofpolice and FBI agents. 
"I guess he just figured it was no use going any further with it," Lt. Donald Hughie said of the three­hour standoff at the Bank ofAmerica branch. 
The 31-year-old man, who iden­tified himself to his hostages only as Harvey, had threatened to blow up the bank with a bomb he claimed to have in a satchel. 
After the siege ended, however, police spokesman Lt. Dan Cooke said the brown leather-and-cloth satchel "was full of toiletries and personal effects." 
Police said the man was not armed and no weapon was found inside the bank. His identity had not been determined, Cooke said. 
No shots were fired and no one was injured, although "some people were just a little shook up," said FBI spokesman Fred Reagan. 
Cooke said the man never asked 
for money, but insisted that a 
meeting be set up between him and 
the president and that he be 
provided with transportation to Los 
Angeles International Airport and a flight -with his hostages -to man had only five hostages left when Washington, D.C. he decided to surrender, policesaid. 

one 18" Kiss Me I'm Irish metallic balloon 
Police said the original 25 to 30 
six 11" emerald &white latex balloons 

people in the bank either escaped or He was being questioned late yes­
one decorative shamrock 

were released in groups of three to terday afternoon and police said he 
Special Prices Good call 232-0302 for FREE

five as the standoff dragged on. The would not be booked until evening. 
thru March 15 DELIVERY in St. Joe County 




The Observer Wednesday, March 9, 1983 -page 4 
Speaks to Hondurans 

Pope urges rejection of violence 


Cacbiqueles Indians burn incense while waiting for Popejohn Paul II outside theMetropolitan Cathedral Monday in Guatamala City, Guatama/a. The pontiffwas in Hondurasyesterday, where be told listeners to reject violence and radical polical attitudes. See story at right. ( AP Photo) 
Mama 





Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If you think Italian til<ld is just spaghetti ;md pizza. we've got a mouth-opening experience waiting ti1r you every Wednesday night from S:()() -10:00 p.m. at ·nw I.mking <ilass Restaur;mt in the South Bend ~\arriott. 
Introducing M;una Marriott·s -a huo11 gusto array of ;mtip;L~ta. minestrone. tl'ttucine. Gtcciatore. I;L~agne. IXLqa ;md ti1ur sau,:es. cheese. hreatb ;md desserts. 
It ·s ,til served up in a testin• lt;tli<m atmosphere ­checkered tabkx:loths. a strolling musici<m­the work.~. 
All \'OU GU1 eat !i1r Si1.lJS. Children under 12 -S~.qs 
Reservations Appreciated 
A ritnlercil 

South Bt·rKI/~orriott lfottl. 
12) t-.:. St. Joseph St.. South Bend (219) 234-2000 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras ( AP) -Looking tired and hot under a blazing sun, Pope john Paul II paid a two-stop visit yesterday to im­poverished Honduras and urged its Roman Catholics to reject violence and radical political attitudes. 
Cheering, colorfully costumed Hondurans broke through lines of troops and police repeatedly and climbed on tombstones in a cemetery to get a better view of the pontiff. His popemobile drove over a carpet of sawdust depicting the Vatican coat of arms, and children 
pelted him with orchid buds. 
"We must reject eYerything that runs counter to the Gospel: hate, violence, injustice, the lack of jobs," the pope said in a Mass at the huge, unfinished Basilica of the Virgin of Suyapa, the patroness of Honduras, overlooking the mountainous capi­tal. 
He urged the "betterment of the poorest and the neediest," in a country where the average income is 5600 a year, and said, "One cannot invoke the Virgin as a mother when he maligns and mistreats Her children." 
Apparently tired after a strenuous week ofpublic appearances in tropi­cal heat, the pope read his homily sitting down for the first time on the Central American tour he began last Wednesday. 
President Roberto Suazo Cor­dova, a country doctor who heads a fledgling democratic government, knelt for a papal blessing at the air­port and told the pope Honduras has neither "jails for people's ide<ts nor prisons for their thoughts." 
"Honduras has peace because we solve our problems at the negotiat­ing table," he said. 
In another speech prepared for delivery in San Pedro Sula, 110 miles northwest of Tegucigalpa, the pope extended his warning against cleri­cal participation in politics to about 3,000 laymen who do most of the Church's preaching in Honduras. 
"Avoid the risk of falling prey to political manipulation or radicalizaton that might com­promise the fruit of your mission," 
he told them. With just 224 priests in the predominantly Catholic country of 
3.7 million people, the Church is de­pendent on the lay preachers, many :.~ mem humble, barely literate peasant farmers, to spread the Gospel through hamlets and villages. 
"It is a great thing that your bis­hops have gone to you ...who are willing to answer this call to serve your brothers," the pope told them. 
Honduras returned to civilian government last year after a decade of military dictatorship. But some leftist rebels have been active, and rightist Nicaraguans opposed to the leftist Sandinista regime in their neighboring homeland use the country as a base for raids across the border. 
After spendng the night in Guatemala City, john Paul will Belize and Haiti today, the last day of eight-day, eight-nation tour. He arrives back in Rome tomorrow. 
House committee investigating 
EPA records possibly destroyed 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A sub­committee chairman investigating conflict of interest allegations against an Environmental Protection Agency official said yesterday night the oft1cial may have "altered and perhaps destroyed" documents sought for the probe. 
The chairman, Rep. Mike Synar, D­Okla., said alteration of the docu­ments by the oft1cial, john Todhunter, would constitute a criminal offense. 
Todhunter is EPA's assistant ad­ministrator for pesticides and toxic substances. Synar's House Govern­ment Operations subcommittee is trying to learn whether Todhunter had improper contacts with in­dustry representatives and whether there was a conflict in the award ofa contract by Todhunter's office to a former employer. 
Todhunter has an unpublished home telephone number. EPA spokesman Rusty Brashear said yes­terday evening the agency would study Synar's allegations. "Any other comment is premature," Brashear said. 
Synar said after learning of the possible tampering with appoint­ment books and other documents, he asked the EPA's acting inspector general to secure the records. The congressman said he was assured that was done. 
Synar said in a statement, "The subcommittee has received in­formation alleging that documents requested by this subcommittee, including apppointments books kept by Dr. john Todhunter ...have been altered and perhaps destroyed. 
"Destruction of government documents is a criminal offense which cannot and will not be tolerated by the Congress. 
"If true, such allegations raise serious concerns on the part of this subcommittee, and I have today started an investigation into the al­legations." 
In a letter to the acting inspector general, Charles Dempsey, Synar said he was told that Todhunter in­structed his secretary to erase entries on his calendars prior to delivery to the subcommittee, and to cancel appoinments already scheduled with industry representatives for the next week. 
Todhunter socialized frequently 
Live for God and His People as a •.. 

Capuchin 
a what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a religious fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in 
It . ~ the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's 
....'> world. 

Join us in promoting peace, education, and justice--in ghettoes... in jails... in soup kitchens ... in parishes ... in halfway houses... on radio and TV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans and people of the Third World in Central America. 
Check out whether being a Capuchin, committed to living for God and his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more information. 
-----------------·------Clip and Mall Today! -------------------·-­Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue, Detroit, Ml 48207 Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. Name Age _____ 
College -----------Address ________ 
City ------State _______ Zip _____ 
with industry representatives early last year before his controversial decision against regulating formal­dehyde, a suspected cause ofcancer. 
Todhunter said last week he did not discuss the formaldehyde issue with the industry oft1cials, but added that he did talk about assessing can­cer risk with at least one industry representative. 
After an Associated Press article about those contacts appeared, Synar requested copies of Todhun­ter's appointment calendars, diaries, telephone logs and other records including "documents referring to Andrulis Research Corp."-the oft1­cial's former employer. 
Todhunter's office last year granted the Bethesda, Md., frrm a $40,564 contract calling for a review of scientific studies on the dangers ofchemicals to humans and wildlife. 
Peter J. Andrulis Jr. a director of the firm, said the contract was handled by John Ritch, one of Tod­hunter's deputies, not by Todhunter himself. 
• • . Lab 

continued from page 1 
Seckner and Marc Malone, a graduate student who was studying in the lab at the time, notified Notre Dame Security. An ambulance was called and Ayarza was taken to the hospital. 
The two students were working on a graduate project involving the phase behavior of a binary mixture of carbon dioxide and octa cosane (candlewax) when the incident oc­curred. 
Ayarza's advisor, Assistant Profes­sor Mark McHugh was unavailable for comment. 
I ................................ HIIIIIIIII 

=,·MACRI'S DELl 
specials 

huES: ~ 75t Heineken WED: 50, Michelob 
btl
5 pm ··close Macri's located behind Jeremiah Sweeney's 

r-......................................._J 
z 
~ -so 

r The Observer Wednesday, March 9, 1983 -page 5 

Nuclear weapons control controversy continues 
House committee OKs a 'verifiable' freeze 
WASHINGTON(AP)-Asthousandsofarmscontrol supporters rallied outside the Capitol, the House Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday called for a "mutual and verifiable freeze" ofU.S. and Soviet nuclear arsenals. 
Proponents forecast that the freeze resolution, en­
dorsed by the committee on a 27-9 vote, will win full 
House approval, but will meet stiff resistance in the 
Senate. 

The House panel's action came as President Reagan urged evangelical leaders gathered in Orlando, Fla., to speak out against backers of the freeze and "those who would place the United States in a position of military and moral inferiority." 
On Capitol Hill, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., assailed the administration's stance that the United States must first build up its own nuclear forces before meaningful arms control accords can be reached with Moscow. 
"I call that voodoo arms control," Kennedy told a 
cheering crowd offreeze supporters who gathered un­
der rainy skies on the west lawn ofthe Capitol. 

U.S. Capitol Police estimated that 4,000 to 5,000 people turned out for the rally, and 600 to 700 freeze opponents took part in a separate demonstration nearby. 
At the counter-rally sponsored by the Coalition for 
Peace Through Strength, the Rev. Jerry Falwell, head of 
the Moral Majority, said he was confident that by the 
1984 election "the American people will have 
repudiated the freezeniks." 

Rep. Edward Markey, D-Mass., who lined up 173 cosponsors for a sightly different freeze resolution, said he expects the committee-passed measure to win ap· proval when it comes to a vote in the House, probably next week. 
The maure approved by the committee was a com­
promise drawn up primarily by Rep. Clement Zablocki, 
D-Wis., the committee chairman, to improve the 
chances ofvictory in the Democratic-controlled House 
and the Senate. 

The compromise resolution calls on the United States 
and the Soviet Union to discuss "when and how to 
achieve a mutual verifiable freeze on the testing, 
production and further deployment of nuclear war· 
heads, missiles and other delivery systems." 

Rep. William S. Broomfield of Michigan, the ranking 
Republican on the committee, said the compromise 
was a "considerable improvement" although he and 
most other Republicans voted against it. 

"I know you have got the votes here, but before this gets through both houses of Congress it will look a lot different from what is being considered," Broomfield said. 
Some freeze supporters wanted to call for an "immediate" freeze of nuclear arms, but Zablocki said this would make it difficult to obtain broad support on the tloor. 
On Aug. 5, the House rejected a freeze resolution. 20+202. Markey, however, said enough freeze suppor· ters were elected last November to assure passage this time around. 

Ala. police under fire in Feb. racial incident 
MONTGOMERY. Ala. (AP) -visits him every day. 
Police, under t1re for jailing 11 out­The suspects, all from Michigan or 
of-state blacks on charges of trying Ohio, remain in jail, unable to make 
to kill two white officers, said yester· · bonds averaging from S20,000 to 
day that because of a malfunction S40,000 on charges including at· 
there are not tapes ofphone or radio tempted murder. They include a 
calls during the incident. )..... Baptist deacon and the brother of 
More than 1,500 blacks rallied at a Olympic goal medal hurdler Willie 
church Monday night in support of Davenport. 
the suspects, and yesterday a half­Police disclosed yesterday that 
dozen blacks picketed a radio sta­because of a malfunction that lasted 
tion where a black disc ·jockey was several hours, thev do not llave tape 
fired after discussing the ca.~e on the recordings of the calls made during 
air. the incident. 
rhe incident took place Feb. 27 af­


University President Father Theodore Hesburgh addresses a gathering at the LawSchoolyesterday. Hesburgh, who has said that he does notfavor a unilateral nuclearfreeze, supports a bilateral freeze as the first step toward a reduction ofnuclear arms. (Photo 

Unilateral freeze not included in SMCpolicy 
By CATHY PAX 
StaffReporter 
The call for a unilateral nuclear freeze by the United States will not 
be a part of St. Mary's official policy, even though a majority of the 
students at the college voted in favor ofthe proposal. 
The referendum, the first political issue ever to be decided on a ballot at Saint Mary's, calls for a unilateral nuclear arms freeze as a first step to mutual disarmament. The measure passed at Saint Mary's after having been defeated at Notre Dame two days earlier. 
John Duggan, president of Saint Mary's, said that the administra­tion "applauds the students" on their passage ofthe referendum. The administration will not include the call for a unilateral freeze in campus policy, however. "We can no way as a Catholic liberal arts woman's college make a statement like that," said Duggan. "We are not responsible for nuclear disarmament." 
A member of the Two-Campus Nuclear Freeze Coalition, Joann 
Holland, is working with the college to plan a response to the stu· 
dents' call for a unilateral freeze. An international world day ofpeace 
is tentatively scheduled for May 1. 
Plans for the event, a "celebration, ofwomen, peace, and the uni­
lateral freeze referendum," have not been made final, but activities 
are expected to include picnics, music, and a Mass. 
Duggan was not surprised that the referendum passed at Saint Mary's. "It is not surprising that par­ticularly a women's college would pass such a referen­dum." 
Student Body President Kathleen Murphy believes 
Buses will leave Notre I 
the referendum passed at Saint Mary's because the 
Dame/CCE & St. Mary's I Buses will return from 
women viewed the issue as a moral question. At Notre 
Holy Cross: 1 Pittsburgh Greyhound 
Dame, the issue was characterized by political debate. 
ter the two police investigators, 
Drafts 2/$1 
dressed in plam clothes and pursu· 
"Irish"

1983 Senior Formal 
ing a man they wanted to question, entered a house full offuneral mour­

Bid Sales Today and 
ners. The oftkers alledgedly were as­

extended March 21-23 
sualted and one was shot in what 

Lemans Lobby 3:30-5:30 
police say wa5 a savage mob attack 

LaFortune Lobby 3:30-5:30
-a claim hotly disputed hy local black leaders, who have banded to­

"The Main Event" of 1983 
gether behind the suspects. The policeman who was shot is 

April9 
still ho!>pitalized, and the mayor 

Palmer House, Chicago 
Reagan to evangelists: preach against freeze 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -President Reagan urged Christian evangelists yesterday to use their pulpits to preach against a nuclear weapons freeze and spread the message that the United States and the Soviet Union are in a "struggle between right and wrong, good and evil." 
Reagan's assault upon freeze advocates and "those who would place the United States in a position of military and moral inferiority" followed by two hours the House Foreign Affairs Committe's formal endorse­ment ofa weapons freeze proposal. 
Reagan branded the Soviet Union an "evil empire" bent on aggression and denounced totalitarian states as "the focus ofevil in the modern world." 
Before his address, Reagan visited the futuristic Walt Disney Epcot Center and watched an animated program in which 35 life-like robots, standing before a movie screen, recounted three centuries of American history. The center features futuristic buildings with corporate-sponsored displays of science and industry and an area displaying the architecture and culture of 
nine nations. 

Reagan spoke to the 41st annual convention of the National Association of Evangelicals, which claims a membership of 38,000 churches representing 77 denominations and 3. 5 million persons. The speech was intended to repair his relations with conservative sup­porters, and Reagan renewed his commitment to con­stitutional amendments authorizing prayer in public schools and banning abortion. 
Reagan urged the religious leaders not to be misled by Soviet assurances about their interest in peace. 
"Some would have us accept them at their word and accommodate ourselves to their aggressive impulses," said Reagan. "But if history teaches anything, it teaches: simple-minded appeasement or wishful thinking about our adversaries is folly -it means the betrayal of our past, the squandering ofour freedom. 
"So I urge you to speak out against those who would place the United States in a position of military and moral inferiority ..."Reagan said. 
"So in your discussions of the nuclear freeze proposals," he added, "I urge you to beware the tempta­tion ofpride -the temptation blithely to declare your­selves above it all and label both sides equally at fault, to ignore the facts of history and the aggressive impulses of an evil empire, to simply call the arms race a giant misunderstanding and thereby remove yourself from the struggle between right and wrong, good and evil." 
The speech comes on the eve of the release ofa new study by the Reagan administration on increases in Soviet military power. 
PITTSBURGH CLUB Spring Break Bus Schedule 
Friday, March 11 at 4:00pm ITerminal:
The College Republicans actively 
Happy Hour starts at 4:15 1 Sunday, March 20 at 1:00pm
opposed the issue on the Notre Dame campus, but since they are not 
will arrive in Pitt. 12:00am 1 active at Saint Mary's, did not par· 
ARRIVE ABOUT 15 MIN. BEFORE SCHEDULED TIMES 
ticipate in the campaign there. 

SEATS STILL AVAILABLE FOR BUS 
Although no active group did 
ONE-WAY AND ROUND TRIPS-Call Brian 1743 
oppose the referendum at Saint Mary's, students did take freeze signs down and turn them around as a symbol of their opposition, accord· Wednesday ing to Murphy. 
St. Patrick's Day 

Only one faculty member at Saint 
Party

Marv's voted on the issue. "There wer~ no spots where faculty normal· open 11 :30 am ly frequent for voting," said College President Duggan. "Students did a 
SPECIALS

good job informing themselves, but faculty were not so informed." 
"Shamrock" 

Duggan did not vote because he 
Margaritas-$1 
was out of town. 
"Dublin" 


Corn Beef Sand.-$1 ~prepared specially


lf.,.IJII..· 
by Donald O'Finn 
~· 

Thursday: Corby's Spring Break Kickoff 
~,,
•. , ·~·.·~.~... '."
.. -

Molson Gold $1
t ~··, 

Register after break for "the Corby Open" Golf Tournament 
j 
J 
-OS -­

Editorials 
Wednesday, March 9, 1983-page 6 
John Paul and two religions 
The Pope's Central American tour il­lustrates, as well as anything could, how deep­ly entangled the roots of politics, economics, and religion are. And the strongest of these may well be religion. 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
PopeJohn Paul sees the world as his parish, and is eager to move into the vacuum of spiritual leadership. But there are dimensions to Central America's problem which may evade his approach. 
The triggering force for the discontents of Central America clearly lies in poverty and landlessness. But in El Salvador as in Nicaragua, they have been exploited by the politics oftotalitarian revolution, whose allies have come from "liberation theology" which in turn is supported by liberal-left Catholic and Protestant groups in the Capitalist democracies. 

Ifthat seems a hopeless jumble it is because 
there isn't much outward logic in the crazy­
quilt ofCentral American ecomomics, politics 
and religion. 
One thing behind the congressional opposi­tion to President Reagan's request for in­creased aid to El Salvador is the conviction that what stirs the guerrillas to action is their poverty. It has become an article of faith for American liberals. 
Yet while endemic poverty explains the dis­contents, it doesn't validate the guerrilla wars. It explains why there is tinder for the guerrilla leaders to set on fire but it doesn't legitimize their taking up guns and shooting it out. It ex­plains the lack of much resistance to the takeover of towns by the guerrillas, but it 
gives little ground for the claim that "the 
people" are supporting them. 
Ifin fact the guerrillas have popular support 
why would they need to shoot it out? Why not 
rely on getting a majority in the general elec­
tions, now likely to take place by the year's 
end? Like congressional liberals, the 
"liberaton theology" priests in Central 
America are deeply moved by the realities of 
poverty. So is John Paul, who is nonetheless 
opposed to the presence offive priests in the 
Nicaraguan ruling junta. 
Yet his basic approach is to reject both 
"collectivism" and "purely economic 
capitalism" as being "equally materialistic." It 
comes close to being a plague-on-both-your­'houses position. 
One can see why the pope should wish to 
take this higher ground above the battle. Yet 
the real struggle is not between two materialisms but between two operative religions. 
One is that of a pluralist society which has room for Christians (both Catholic and Protestant) and Jews and every faith. The other is the mystique of Communism which has become a political religion. 
!he latter is more decisive in motivating the guerrilla recruits than their poverty. Ifthe Commmunists triumph in El Salvador, it won't be any mechaniical "domino effect" that will spread to other guerrilla movements but the conviction that Communism as a political religion is the wave ofthe future. 
John Paul's Catholicism contains a deep philosophical commitment to the "human person." This belief in "personhood" may prove a more abiding guide to separate the tawdry Communist mystique from the dif­ficult and untidy democratic path than the lumping ofcapitalism with collectivism. 
P. 0. Box Q 
clesial Magisterium is not something alien to be equated: the Church's authentic teach­is the policing action Security took the night theology, but is rather intrinsically and es­ing; the opinions of theologians, some of prior to the assault. It seems that the motto,
Church teachings 

sentially a part of it. Ifthe theologian is first them quite radical ones. The result can easi­"to serve and to protect," has been changed. Dear Editor: of all and thoroughly a believer, whose ly be confusion about what the Church real­"To harass and annoy" might be considered In its Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Christian faith is faith in the Church ofChrist ly teaches." more apt. 
Revelation (No. 1 0 ), the Second Vatican and in the Magisterium, his theological work The teaching of the Church on Security evidently decided that students 
Council said, "The task of authentically in­must remain faithfully bound to his ecclesial contraception is eminently reasonable and parked in front of Lewis Hall, on the night of 
terpreting the Word of God, whether writ­Faith, whose authentic and defmite inter­convincing. And The Observer is to be com­the Lewis formal, should be ticketed. 
ten or handed on, has been entrusted preter is the Magisterium." mended for opening its columns to ex­Security was well aware that there was a for­exclusively to the living teaching office of My impression is that Notre Dame stu­tensive discussion of the contracpetion mal that night. Although the area was the Church, whose authority is exercised in dents -through no fault of their own -issue. But, as the Second Vatican Council designated "no parking," the cars were not the name ofJesus Christ" (emphasis added). generally do not have any idea that the clearly indicated, an authentic papal teach­blocking traffic. Furthermore, those parked As the Second Vatican Council made clear, Church makes this claim upon them. They ing, such asHumanae Vitae, is not an invita­in front ofthe hall were merely there to pick 
tion to a debate. We are bound to accept that
this teaching office is exercised by the pope have been misled by teachers who, in an up their dates and could not have been and the bishops in union with the pope: interesting exercise of self-serving conflict teaching in the formation of our con­parked more than ten minutes. Yet stum­"Bishops, teaching in communion with tpe of interest, tell them instead that papal bling onto a such blatant and malicious dis­
sciences, that is, to give to it what the Coun­Roman Pontiff, are to be respected by all as teachings such asHumanae Vitae are to be cil described as "religious submission ofwill regard of Notre Dame parking regulations, witnesses to divine and Catholic truth. In weighed in the balance with, and qualified Security could not help but act.
and of mind," whether we agree with it or matters of faith and morals, the bishops by, the views of theologians including per­To the fine officer who ticketed my car, I 
not. speak in the name of Christ and the faithful haps the teachers who are so misinforming say, "well done!" You certainly obeyed the
Charles Rice 

are to accept their teachings and adhere to it them. There is an element offlattery in thus letter of the law. However, I and many
Professor ofLaw 

with a religious assent shown in a special inducing the students to sit in judgment on others would appreciate it if you and your way to the authentic teaching authority of the papal teachings; and the receptivity of kind would use your intellect to serve the the Roman Pontiff, even when he is not the students is enhanced because, at least in spirit of the law as well. I know ofone Saint
Parking problem 
speaking ex cathedra. That is, it must be the areas related to Humanae Vitae, the Mary's student who might wish that Security shown in such a way that his supreme magis­views ofthe theologians which are advanced was a little more concerned with helping
DearEditor: 

terium is acknowledged with reverence, the are .invariably more permissive than the Kudos to the brave men in blue who rather than hindering the students. diligently guard our campus by night and
judgrr.ents made by him are sincer~ly ad­teachings of the pope. The classroom teac­]amesM. Wall 
hered to, according to his manifest mind and her comes across, to his own aggrandize­
day. The ever vigilant Notre Dame Security will." (Dogmatic Consititution on the ment, as benign and respectful of the has once again stretched to the limit my Editor's Note: The appearance ofletters to Church, No. 25) students while the teaching Church is im­
patience and credulity. the editor is subject to the daily space con­In his Oct. 7, 1979, address at Catholic plicitly presented as restrictive and authori­
In my gross naivete, I thought that Notre straints of the editorial page. Letters should 
University in Washington, PopeJohn Paul II, tarian. And into this battle of wits Notre Dame Security had a single purpose: to serve be under 250 words and address specific 
addressing himself to "all the Catholic uni­Dame students commonly enter unarmed and protect the student population. Ap­issues. They must be typed and bear the 
versities ... in your land, those with formal because they are simply not taught the true parently this is not so. This weekend a Saint address, telephone number, and signature of 
and sometimes juridical links with the Holy nature of papal authority as outlined in the Mary's student was physically assaulted. The the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not 
See, as well as those who are "Catholic," said, councils and teachings of the popes. It is a fact that she was assaulted at the Grotto adds acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, 
"true theological scholarship, and by the scandal which ought be corrected. insult to injury. I am not saying that Security or letters addressed to persons other than 
same token theological teaching cannot ex­One letter to The Observer criticized my could have necessarily prevented this unfor­the editor are not acceptable. All letters are ist and be fruitful without seeking its inspira­essay because of my "narrow view of the tunate occurance. What strikes me as ironic subject to editing. tion and its source in the Word of God as 'teaching Church."' On the contrary, it is the contained in Sacred Scripture and in the councils and the popes who define that the Sacred Tradition of the Church, as inter­"teaching Church consists of the Pope and preted by the authentic Magisterium the Bishops in union with the Pope." I am 
throughout history ... It behooves the merely retelling the teachings of that 
theologian to be free, but with the freedom Church. And your friendly campus 
that is openness to the truth and the light theologian is not the teaching Church. 
that comes from faith and from fidelity to the Unfortunately, Notre Dame students, 
Church." More recently, on Nov. 1, 1982, through no fault of their own, are deprived 
Pope John Paul II stated: "One cannot of the opportunity to make an intelligent 
believe in Christ without believing in the choice as to whether they will accept the 
Church, the Body of Christ; one cannot teaching of the Church because they 
believe with the Catholic Faith in the generally are taught, at least by implication, 
Church without believing in its inalienable that those teachings are found by weighing 
Magisterium. Fidelity to Christ implies then the teachings ofthe Pope in the balance with 
faithfulness to the Church, and faithfulness the views of theologians and arriving at 
to the Church brings with it fidelity to the some sort ofconsensus or synthesis. It is not 
Magisterium. One must, therefore, realize surprising that the students are confused. As 
that with the same fundamental freedom of the Catholic bishops of Australia said, in 
faith with which the Catholic theologian ad­warning against the use of-Father Richard P. 
heres to Christ, he adheres to the Church McBrien's book, Catholicism, the book 
and to its Magisterium. Therefore, the ec-"puts side by side two things which cannot 

~~~==========  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Colu_mn depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinionson_c,ampus, through letters, is encouraged. (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michae! Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic SMC Executive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor................................... Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ............................ Joe Musumeci Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount  Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertising Manager....................... Chris Owen .Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley Founded November 3, 1966  


The end of a world 
LOVESICK's incutGble 
r~ 
L~~ 
1 \• 

NEW BREED bids Gdieu 
I
n November of 1982, after 15 singles and six albums, TheJam has decided to call it quits. As a farewell, they took one last tour and · released their final album, a Jive collection oftheir best songs en­titledDig theNew Breed. 
Why would Britain's most successful band in the past fivt: years break up at the height oftheir success? "The main thing was the security," said their leader, Paul Weller. "It really dawned on me how secure the situation was, the fact that 
Ed Kontady 
record review 

we could go on for the next ten years making records, getting hit records, getting bigger and bigger. That scared me because I realized that we were going to end up like the rest ofthem." 
"Them" are bands like The Who, a band that in his early years Wel­ler idolized, and in fact, modeled TheJam after. For years in America, TheJam was considered just a Who clone and not until their third al­bum did they break significantly new ground. 
"I don't like the thought ofimaginingThe)am when we're 30 and old and embarrassing. All those groups, they're disgusting, a lot of them. What sickens me most ofall is that I used to believe in a lot of them. I believed all that stuffthey came out with. 
"Now you find out that they're a load offrauds, they're just a load ofart school wankers who want to be rock stars and that's all they'll ever be. I'm no part ofthat at all. That's why I think ending it now will keep that." 
This bitterness toward groups he once idolized shows in his work, as Who influences disappear and TheJam's own style has burst out. 
"I think we all used to bel,ieve in rock when we started off. Over the last few years I've realized what a lot of----it all is. All this rebel stance. 'Hope I die before I get old' is just another piece of----. 
"I find the whole Angry Young Man stance limiting. How long can it go on for? Could I still do it when I'm 32? Look at The Who. Can you think ofanything more obscene? Look atJagger, he still believes he's a rebel and what's even worse is all them young people do as well." 
TheJam's finale, Dig The New Breed, is a collection of the best of The)am, with Weller's pleadingfor the fans ofthe group to move on past TheJam, to newer groups. 
The first side was recorded entirely in London, in a space offour years. The first cut is the oldest, 1977, entitled "In The City." It's a quick rocker with strong guitar and powerful drums. 
It's followed by "All Mod Cons", recorded with the next two songs in 1977, one ofTheJam's early hits. Great bass starts out the song with stingingguitar and beautifully hoarse vocals. "To Be Someone" continues these great vocals and excellent guitar. "It's Too Bad" features nice background vocals. 
Two years later came the next three songs, "Start", a Beatles­influenced song, bouncy, with the haunting refrain "What you see is what you got." "Big Bird's" chunky bass opening follows, with its heavy metal influences and haunting vocals. "Set the House Ablaze" ends the side with a good guitar opening and gritty vocals. 
Side two opens with 1982's "Ghosts", with its tender acoustic guitar. "Standards" follows, a diatribe against the lawmakers, a true rocker that screams along with Weller's guitar. "In The Crowd" features froggy, foggy vocals and incredible guitar with some great background vocals. 
The closing fou t r songs were all performed on their last tour. "Going Underground"' opens with fans cheering and drums pound­ing, Weller's guitar working overtime. "Dreams ofChildren" has strong vocals, great background vocals and nice guitar:"That's En­tertainment", Weller's most critically acclaimed song, has an in­credible guitar opening and gets better throughout the song. The album closes with "Private Hell", with its driving guitar and drum~. and solid bass. 
TheJam's farewell album is a tribute for its fans, but also an excel­lent album for those who have never heard the group. It shows 13ntish rock at its best. 
T
here is a spot a little away from the heart ofcampus where the world ends. 
One late night a few Saturdays ago I was wandering more or less aimlessly looking for someone or some· thing to be, wondering quite aimlessly whether there was anything left worth being anymore. 
"Be yourself," people say, and the rest will take care ofitself. "The rest" has been on vacation for quite some time now, and I thought that it was time to take a more immediate interest in just what it was I was trying to be. As awriter, Iwas feeling ratther inadequate, which is an­other way ofsaying I couldn't for the life of me think of anything to write about. "The rest" was doing just that 
-resting. 
Joe musumeci 
looking in 

So I found myselfwandering and wondering in a rather bemuddled fashion. The moon was full, the air was crisp and clear, not a cloud marred the sable back­drop. It was the perfect night to go for a walk with my date. Ifonly I had had one. I have often considered carrying aunicorn around in my trouser pockets, in the hope that it might in some way attract starry-eyed young maidens on just such nights; my mythology has always been a little backward, and I have always been willing to try anything at least once. 
Still, such a night should not be wasted. Food for the .soul is not something one can comfortably prohibit from one's diet, and gluts ofnourishment such as moon­washed nights are rare indeed. 
So I wandered alone, heading offcampus, to see what South Bend is like in the twilight between the peak of the midnight and dawn, when every city takes on the at­titude ofa murderer asleep to his sins. Even a killer looks like creature ofGod when exhaustion conquers the need for survival. · 
South Bend accepted me as another ofthe charges put out to search for life on the streets, and the sound of my feet pounding on the pavement gave rhythm to the thoughts that fought for attention in my mind. A jour­ney downtown swung back towards the northern reaches, and I found myselfrunning down Bulla Road, away from the glow ofthe dome that called out, "Come and sleep." 
Arabbit caught my eye, darting into the woods offthe road, and I settled down on a log to await its return and some pleasant conversation. 
My waitingwas interrupted by the blaze ofaspotlight shining in my face, a terse request to come out with my hands up. It seems that a resident had seen me vanish in­to the woods near his home and feared for my well­being or the safety ofhis personal belongings, probably not in that order. Upon the car from which the glaring beam originated was emblazoned the dictum, "Notre 
Dame Security." 

You can't run away. 
Realizing that for now, at least, I was expected to 
search for my personal meaning somewhere between a stadium and agolfcourse, in a world that meant typical· Iy little more than a twenty-hour grind ofclasses and paperwork, I turned my course back to Mary's perch and tried to commit some enthusiasm to a hearty jog back. I remember thinking, "The ducks .. .ifanyone can cheer me up, it's the ducks." 
Never try to find the ducks at 6:30 on a Sunday morn­ing. They don't want to be found any more than you would. Iwandered around St. Mary's lake for some time before I even caught a glimpse ofany life, and that wasn't a duck. I had never realized that anything besides fish and ducks (and, ofcourse, the geese, mention of whom is too often overlooked)lived in the lakes, but as the eastern sky took on a brighter pallor, I saw to my surprise some sort of mammal skimming the surface of 
the lake; I dont know ifit was an otter or water rat or ifit 
was just a figment of my imagination, and I dont think I 
want to know. Probably several people on campus 
could tell me the nature ofthe beast. 
I hope they don't, because for me, that animal will al­ways be my own personal Loch Ness monster, and it is important to remember that there are some things in this world we were meant to wonder about. At any rate, seeing this avatar from a mud bar made me stop and sit down, there at the far end ofthe lake. As I settled into my newfound throne, I realized that it was the drain where Saint Mary's lake empties to become just another 
part of the Indiana water table. 
As I laid back and listened to the roar ofthe water, it assumed the quality ofNiagra or some uncharted cataract in deep Venezuela. The sound was the reverberating echo from the beginning ofthe world, the chord struck at first Creation. I mused that, as this sound hearkened back past time, so my seatwas, for this lake, the end ofthe world. Here it ended its life as a lake under an amber-gilt dome and began a life that would see it become a stream ora lake in some other locale, or perhaps as rose water in a perfume bottle or the sludge under a subway. Always the same water. 
While the rhythm ofa lake pouring over the brink of world inundated my mind, the sun winked over the Notre Dame skyline and scorched the grey into which the world turned. Where the lake ended, I had found the end of my world, and the beginning ofanother. 
Before you leave this place, search out your own little brink; find the place where, for you, this world can end and you can find a perspective on a new one. We will leave Notre Dame and its clawing protection behind, all ofus, but part ofus will stay and much ofthe person we will someday comfortably call"me" will reek ofthe times we have shared. The dome doesn't look so bad with Creation for a backdrop. 
M 
arshall Brickman has fallen into a rut. 
This amy not seem like a very unique situation in a place like Hol­lywood that many believe to be founded upon a school ofhas-beens. Why is Brickman any different? He has found his way into that hallowed 
Dennis Chalifout 
movie review 

rut with the release ofonly his second movie,lovesick. So what is this former Woody Allen col­laborator and virtual new kid on the block doing in a rut usually reserved for the likes ofWoody himself? Let me tell you. 
Three years ago, Brickman made his dubious directorial debut with an excessively mediocre little "New Yorker:• piece ofa movie called 
Simon. The film did not fare too well 
with either the critics or the 
audiences and now hils been as­
signed the revered graveyard spot 
on HBO every other month or so. 
But a guy like H··~.::kr.tan should be 
able to put something likeSimon be· 
hind him, take the early punches, 
and adapt his debut into a learning 
experience. His send-up ofB.F. Skin­ner and the conditioning crowd simply did not work. It was a safe bet; Woody gets lots oflaughs out of analysis. I figured Brickman would move oino bigger and better things. I was wrong. 
Instead, Brickman has offered us Lovesick, a flimsy little send-up of Freudianism. Psychology again falls flat. Let me get into a little plot synopsis. Dudley Moore plays Sal Benjamin, your typical New York analyst with a cockney British ac­cent. Elizabeth McGovern plays Chloe Allen, a playwright with a definite knack for attracting analysts. In turn, Benjamin develops an obses­sion over the counter-transference Allen is showing him. At this point 
the film becomes down right 
pleasant with Moore making every 
use of the physical comedy inherent 
in his character's predicament.. 
It seems that Moore has become a 
professional obsessive in everything 
from Bedazzled to 10, and he pulls 
the comedy ofthis particular situa· 
tion offrather nicely. Unfortunately, 
the obsessions end when Saul fmally 
confesses his attraction and the 
movie takes another nose dive as the 
actual love story takes over the bulk 
ofthe plot. Not a good quality you'd 
want to have in a love story. 
The acting all around is really 
quite good which makes me wish 
that much more that the dialogue were not so empty. Alec Guiness gets the character ofthe spirit of Freud himselfdown to a tee while Brickman's script allows the charac­ter to go absolutely now~ere.John Huston and Shawn Wallace suffer from much the same problem as Benjamin's analyst pals. 
The brightest point of the fUm is Elizabeth McGovern's performance. She has become the quintessential cinematic tease. It is easy to see how anyone might fall for her. Unfor­tunately, the script again limits McGovern's role to some sort offar offidol to be worshipped and no­thing else. 
In the end, it might be useful to compare this film to the film version ofWoody Allen'sPlay itAgain, Sam. Both fllms deal with a certain ob­sessiveness that is counseled by the ghost ofa reresentative ofideals.1 The difference is that the Allen script is funny. I missed all the great lines that Moore mght have quipped throughout a more thoughtful send­up ofFreudianism. Perhaps, Brick­man should just get psychology out ofhis head and attempt to create comedy from characterization. Until then, he may only be comforted by the great company he's got in the rut. 




" 

The Observer Wednesday, March 9, 1983-page 9 
College basketball polls, scores 
10. Tennessee 23-7 536 
Mid-American Conference 
Men's Top20 

11. Kentucky 23-4 51B 
First Round 12. Anzona State 22-6 464 
AP Top Twenty 13. MISSISSIPPI 25-5 376 Ball State 85, M1am1 79The Top Twenty college basketball teams 1n The 14 Kansas State 22-5 374 Toledo 79, Kent State 64Associated Press poll, w1th first-place votes 1n paren­

15. Auburn 23-7 331 theses, th1s season's records and total po1nts Pomts 
16. North Carolina State 22-7 231 
Big Eight

based on 20-t 9-t B-t 7 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
17. Mrssoun 22-5 212 are italicized. 
First Round

1B. North Carolina 22-7 104 Oklahoma State 75, Kansas State 71 
19. Flonda State 23-4 6B Nebraska 94, Iowa State 711 Houston (43) 25-2 1,030 20. Loursrana State 20-7 64 M1ssoun 88, Colorado 732. Virg1n1a (9) 25-3 9B7 Oregon State 21-5 64 Kansas 87, Oklahoma 773. LOUISVille 27-3 919 
4. UCLA 22-4 837 
ECAC North Atlantic

5 North Carolina 25-6 739 
Quarterfinals Holy Cross 65, Northeastern 61 6. Arkansas 25-2 
7 Indiana 22-5 656 
690 Last night,s results 
N1agara 78, Ma1ne 76, 2 OTB. St. John's 24-4 646 Boston U. 80, Vermont 759. Nevada-Las Vegas 25-2 575 New Hampshire 75, Cams1us 64
10. Kentucky 21-6 544 TOURNAMENTS 11 W1chitaState 25-3 499 
Missouri Valley Conference

12 MISSOUri 24-6 ECACMetro
4B7 
First Round

13. Villanova 21-6 485 Quarterfinals 
Tulsa 108, Indiana State 89
14. Boston College 22-5 421 Fairleigh D1ck1nson 94, Wagner 84 15 Georgetown 21-B Long Island U. 74, Manst 56
272 
MIDWEST

16. Ohio State 19-B 200 State Franc1s (Pa.) 75, Baltimore 68 DePaul 60, Pan Amencan 49
17 MemphiS State 21-6 17B Robert Morns 81, Loyola (Md.) 60 1B. Tennessee-Chattanooga 23-3 148 19. Oklahoma 23-7 
B8 20. Syracuse 19-B 
B2 
Women's Top20 

• • • Hoosiers 
APTopTwenty 

The Top Twenty women's college basketball teams 1n The Associated Press poll, w1th first-place votes 10 parentheses. th1s season's records and total continuedfrom page I2 eluded in the men's season ticket po1nts. Po1nts based on 20-19-1 B-17 etc. Notre Dame 
package offered to the general
opponents are italicized 
each game as a tournament game." public. The last ticket ~arne. a~ainst 
1 Louisiana Tech (50) 25-1 1,000 
The significance of the game has No. 1 Louisiana Tech. drew 3,420
2 usc 23-2 950 
3 Texas 25-2 894 not been lost on any ofthe Irish. And ticket-holders, and perhaps 1,000 
4 Old Dom1mon 24-5 B41 the opposition provided by IU will students to the ACC, a home record 5 Cheyney State 26-2 793 
be intense. It all adds up to another for the Irish women ... The Irish are 
6. Maryland 25-4 756 7 Cal State-Long Beach 21-6 631 40-minute gut-wrenching, not on a five-game winning streak -in B. Georg1a 24-6 619 
unlike Sunday's white-knuckler stark contrast to last year's finish,
Penn State 24-6 619 

against Dayton. That doesn't worry which saw ND plummet from 16-4 Freshman walk-on Lisa Brown has come on of late for Mary DiStanislao. to 16-9 and right out of the tourna­DiStanislao's Irish, playing in the last sixgames. She will no doubt 
"We haven't lost a real close one ment picture ... Next up for the see some action in tonight's "do-or-die" encounter with Indiana, yet," says Mary D. "Laura Irish? Your guess is as good as mine, which Mike Riccardi previews on page 12. (Photo by Scott Bower) (Dougherty) pulled it out for us but the NCAA Tournament will kick 
• • • Poll 

against Illinois State and Dayton, and off at the home site of an upper­Sunday's game gives us lots of con­seeded team, and the women's NIT fidence." will take place in Amarillo, Texas ...
continuedfrom page 12 
Both tourneys will start around the 
The Observer is now accepting 
three weeks to get ready for them instead ofeight or nine days. I'm not 
lfittentionaorre-,s=--~-----~·
jumping up and down about the 
~II for the Draft? 
prospects ofplaying them again." 
1Bring your clubs back from Spring Break fori 
Louisville remained a strong 
Are You Concerned 
third-place team with victories over _____________________________J1
I "THE CORBY OPE".. About the Possibility of
Murray State and Virginia Tech, but had to go into overtime before nip­Being Drafted into the ping Memphis State. 
Military?
The Second Ten includes Wichita State, Missouri, Villanova, Boston 
Do You Think You 

College, Georgetown, Ohio State, Memphis State, Tennessee-
Might Be A 

Chattanooga, Oklahoma and 
Conscientious 

Syracuse. 
Objector? 
.. 

Would You Like to _ STUDENT DISCOUNT 
Know What Being A 

Houston whipped Arkansas and 
IRISH ITEMS-This game is in-second weekend ofbreak. Baylor last week to remain on top. Houston's 74-66 victory over the Razorbacks was its first ever in Fayetteville, Ark., and could set up a 
The Irish Gardens 
third meeting in the finals of the SWC tournament. It already has been pointed out to 

Stay on campus and 
the Cougars that it is difficult to beat 
save $ $$ by letting us 
a team three consecutive times. But Houston guard David Rose says that take care of your is just another problem created by flower needs someone else. 
"All season long people have tried 
Dial M-U-M-8 (6867) 
to put negative things in our mind," 
to place an order 
Rose said. "But now maybe we've put some things in the back of their minds. I hope we play them 
Located off the Xazz 
(Arkansas) again." 
in the basement of 
Houston Coach Guy Lewis is less enthusistic. 
LaFortune 
"If we get to Saturday night against Arkansas, it will be another 
Hours: 12:80-5:80 
dog-eat-dog game," Lewis said. "It 
wouldn't be bad to have two or 



Conscientious Objector 
e~~ 

Entails?
~ II ,,t\1~ 

If These Questions Are 
20°/o OFF 

of Concern to You, Then You Should 
Good Man-Thurs onlv 

Inquire About w/Student I.D. 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 

REGISTRATION &
Offer not valid with any other Aurelio's special . 

DRAFT COUNSELING 
discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
at Campus Ministry 
1705 S.SEND AVE./23 at edison 

Badin Hall***239-5242 
uMfll'-ll' • -\\,ll\1111 
'"""'' 277 4950 "'"""' 
applications for the following positions: 
... ­


Applications must be in by Wednesday, spm call Mike at 289-5828 for more information. 

-
???????????????????????????????????? 
~ Are You Registered 
• 
... 

.... 
The Observer 


Wednesday, March 9, 1983-page 10 




Brian Eoulac jay Robertson 
These are four ofthe men involved in a recent Athletic Depart­ment shake-up in an attempt to reverse the recent fortunes ofthe Irish football team. More details in Steve Labate's story 
Rose, who will be 42 next month, 
has played in 626 consecutive 
games. He says he has missed only 
three since 1970. 

"I wonder how many players would take off ifthey open that door, walk in that clubhouse, see a sign that says, 'If you take off a day you don't get paid, if you play you get paid,"' said the veteran of 20 major league seasons. 
"How many players would take oft? They'd never take off." 
But Rose said that if the Phillies want to give some time off during the 1983 season, he won't create any controversy. He just wants them to know he doesn't agree with their philosophy or like it. 
"If I can help the team by sitting out two days a week, I'll sit out. If I can help by sittingfour out, I'll sit. IfI can help by retiring, I'll retire," said Rose. 
"I can't sit here and talk to you and 
• 
coach to Greg Blache. But as of 
August 1, he will be promoted from 
part-time to full-time status. 

Robertson earned three varsity letters in the early 1960s at Northwestern under Wildcat coach Ara Parseghian. He becomes the ninth full-time Notre Dame football coach. 
The final change stems from Brian Boulac's decision to leave coaching for the athletic administration ranks. 
Boulac, a 13-season veteran on the sidelines, was a favorite among Irish football players. In addition to his job as assistant head coach at the time of his departure, Boulac was the recruiting coordinator and spe-

State of the art at General Dynamics is a state of mind. More than technology or 
hardware, it is a way of viewing everything in terms of the future and finding the means to turn new ideas into reality. 
This vision has helped General Dynamics become a world leader in aerospace, electr. ~s. shipbuilding and other areas -and has opened up many diverse opportL •ies for college graduates with degrees in Electrical, Mechanical, Computer Enginee.1ng and Computer Science/Math. 
General Dynamics will be interviewing on campus in the near future. See your placement office to arrange an appointment. Or send your resume to Jim Warren, College Relations Coordinator, General Dynamics Pomona Division, P.O. Box 3011, Pomona, CA 91769. 
INTERVIEW DATE: MARCH 24TH 
GENERAL CVNAMIC:S 
Pomona Division & Electronics Division 
An Equal Opportunity Employer/ U.S. Citizenship Required 
most of the 
• • Shakeup 
cial teams coach. Unofficially, Boulac was a watchdog, keeping close tabs on his players and their academic status. 
As a recruiter, Brian Boulac was second to none. Teams from all across the nation (most notably, Southern California) tried to lure him away from Notre Dame because of his outstanding ability to sign blue-chip high school gridders to letters ofintent. 
Boulac knew better than any other coach what lay at the heart of Notre Dame. It was not uncommon for him to write a recruit a four-or 
five-page  letter  telling the  player  
what  he  could  expect  at  Notre  
Dame.  

Boulac hesitated at first when he was contacted about working in the athletic director's office. But after conferring with his family and Faust, he made his decision to take the job. 
"I will miss coaching," said Boulac, "but I had to think ofwhat I wanted to be doing I 0 or 15 years from now." 
So with the September 1 0 Purdue game still six months away, Gerry Faust has shaken up his staff and made a few changes. It would appear that he is doing what he feels neces­sary to end Notre Dame's two-year drought from the bowls. Only time will tell if he has made the right changes. 

All matches must be played and reported to the NVA office by 5 p.m. today, March 9. 
Open Racquetball Richardson (233-6031) v. Bathon (8302) Schm11t (3333) v. Elshoff (1166) Berens (1579) v. Alman (1052) Murphy (67561 v. Mucc1o (1152) H1gg1ns (1873) v. Marks (3543) Carberry (239-5713) v. Rukav~na (1974) Welsh (6866) v. Delahanty (3601) Record (277-5512) v. Mclaughlin (1052) Purk (1152) v. Pinh1ero (1684) Israel (234-4234) v. Schacilner (8760) Miller (239-7323) v. Trousdale (234-5415) Brown (3261) v. Roberts (282-1029) Powers (8828) v. Schubert (3312) Alba (234-5414) v. Schunk (7816) Haling (277-1809) v. H1ckey (1004) Danca (t 754) V. DoniUS (3185) Alme1da (7849) v. Meakin (68631 Sweeney (3579) v Cleary (1857) Powers (277-1773) v. Schmid (1294) LaChance (8179) v. TICe (232-8653) 
Brenton (3103) v. Grojean (1222) Condon (3579) v Desaulmers (6864) Soha (8708) v. Ponsar (78881 Shea (t 817) v. P~neda (288-3051) Marten (7829) v Roveda (1129) Staten ( t 208) v. Sch1erl (3667) Ansan (277-0849) v. Mornssey (1604) Allen (1506) v. Panchal (1940) Cush~ng ( t 173) v W1cke ( 1760) Allison (3255) v McCabe (233-6068) G1bson (233-9703) v. C1ndr1C (6703) Jakop1n (8170) v. Mclaughlin (272-1801) Williams (1 028) v. S1mpson (3336) Bartkow1ak (1479) v. Carter (6664) 
Amesbury (1553) v Fedorov1c (277-0838) 
BYES-Shank. Hatf1eld. Shubert. Ranger 

MEN'S UNDERGRAD DOUBLES RACQUETBALL Th1rd Round Pa1nngs 
Deadline for results 1S Friday. March 25. Failure to report a score calls for e1m1nat10n from the tourna­ment. 
Powers/Simpson (277-1773) v. Sch18rt/M1nondo (3667) Vanderbeck/Fh1t1e (277-2163) v. '"'"""" (Fahng/Durbln v. Meak1n/Desulmere) Schneider (8728)/M,IIa (8742) Rasler ( t 780)/Hogan ( 1801) Brown/E1sengruber (3261) v. O'TooleIJones (83241 Hatfield (t054)/0"Bnen (1064) v Taylor (8941)/Dahl 
(8944) Heghn (8624)/Q"Donnell (8644), Bye Klink (8633)/lrasqUine (8635) v. Grojean/Welsh (1222) Riedl/ Adams ( 1682) v w1nner ( Shank/PJneda v. MIC­haux/Gayhardt) 
MEN'S UNDERGRAD SINGLES RACQUETBALL 
Winners of these two matches w~l play for the championship. 
HICkey (283-1004) v. Vanderbeck (277-2163) Schierl (3667) v. Scllantc (288-3051) 

t___ 

~-

IheCIKerver========================================== 
~~4()[C)L~==========================W=e=d=n=es=d=ay=,=M=~=c=h=9=,=1=9=8=3===pa=g=e=l=l
Bloom County
,.---------.
''THE MAKJN6 OF AN AMERICAN STINK£R::.CHAf'Tl:.R 'THRE£: S'TEV£'5 £ARL.Y PRIORm£5,. 
STEVEN 
IM
OAUP.~.' 
U51EtlfW7/

57EV€N? 
/ 


STEVeN? 
Aspirin Man 
WELl., SiEIIK '5 AU"'4ST HElf. MY JOB SIIDCA'-D 13£ NO PltoiHEfl'l 
WI'TH ALt. T"H« S1'UO&N1S GDN£. 
~ 

I 

ALl. .t: liAYf 'T6 AO IS II:Uf' PI~Lo£ '*'"" fU.Uir/1/c 
f/VrO l)oAMS, "N /) ....Itt; 

s-10U rilE. ,~IESrS lJoii'T PLAY F>f.JS~EE oN rHE Qu/111$, 
) 
~ 

10P1Y Wf.'R€ GaN0 1D ZERO IN ()IJ 'THE. 'THRIX "R'S" 
OF L-JF£: I'U. 'TAKE. 
• RE-APING. 1HE-'THRE£ WRIT1N6 ''S'~J,"THANK YOV. AND-· • 
I
/ 


H seem:; ~ to thtnk of GoJ in one's dally ed«cafion, M ;{ alSo ~e~s for the parents
( who don't I[ '' belie~e in God. 

r----------------------------,
1 The Notre Dame Student Union needs _ I \ ENTHUSIASTIC, HARDWORKING, I AND mOTIVATED PEOPLE ~
1 

~ to assume nextyear's ~ ~ commiSSIONER POSITIONS l ~ Applications may be picked up at the Student\ \ Union Office on the second floor of Lafortune.~ 
L..___._._~J1.J![O.! :..fJlqr~.b.J!____j 
Berke Breathed 

Jeb Cashin 
Heel\ no! All kid~ 'pe\~ ·1n God..' 
\ 

David). Adams 

FLOR..I OA I HEIE I ctPJE! 
Campus ~ 
•2 
p.m. · 5 p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center, (until April 15) 

•4 
p.m. -UND Visitors in Arch Lecture, "Beyond Post Modernism,", by Harry Weese, FAIA, Principal, Harry Weese and Assoc., Chi., Annen· berg Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Vitamin B12-Parasitic Helminth Relationships,", by Dr. Paul 

B. 
Beinstein, NO Biology Dept., Galvin We Sciences Auditorium. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Sigma Xi, Annual Meeting, Univer­sity Club. 

•6 
· 8 p.m. -Sign-ups, Senior Bahamas Trip, LaFortune Lobby, Sponsored by ND/SMC Junior Class. · 

•6:30 
-11:30 p.m. -SMC Alumnae Phon-a­thon, 

•7 
p.m.-Lecture, "Ministry in Today's Church", Fr. Richard •McBrien, Howard Hall Chapel, Sponsored by Theo. Dept, free. 

•7, 
9:15, 11:30 p.m. -movie, Superman II, Engineering Aud., Sponsored by B.A.L.S.A., S 1 

•7 
p.m. -10 p.m. -I, Claudius FUm Series, Episode 11: "Fool's Luck;" Episode 12: "A God in Colchester;" Episode 13: "Old King Log," ETS Theater, Sponsored by Mod. & Classical Langs. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Women's Basketball, Women vs. Indiana, ACC Arena, 

•7:30 
& 9:30p.m. -movies, "Ride the Wild Surf' and "Beach Blanket Bingo", SMC Regina Hall Auditorium, Sponsored by SMC SAPB, Sl 

•8 
p.m. -Recital, Max Yount, Harpsichordist, Beloit College, Little Theatre, 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Clancy Brothers, Morris Civil Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, 55.50 and S6.50 

•8:15 
-The Thomas More Society ofND Con­·temporary Issues', "Defending a Known Guilty Party," by Prof. Robert Blakey, NO Law School. 115 O'Shaughnessey Hall, all programs last 50-60 minutes 

•9 
p.m.-Co-Ree Soccer, AAF. 

•11:30 
p.m. -Women's History Week Presentation, "God as Female and Male: Were the Shakers Femini, by Marjorie Proctor-Smith, Theol-. ogy Ph.D. Candidate, Library Lounge, Sponsored 


·by NO Women's Caucus, 

The Far Side · 
~" 
• 
53 Those in the social whirl 
55 Vend 56 Mauna ­58 Burden 59 Merry men 
member 62 Viva ­63 Harden 64 Soon 65 Wapiti 
67 English alleys 
DOWN 1 Pine item 2 Have ­
to pick 3 Choral 
composition 4 Favorite 5 Roams 6 Korbut and 
namesakes 7 Expressions of disgust 8 "-ding· dong daddy" 9 Une, deux, 
trois, etc. 10 Israelite 11 Gives too 
much medi· 
cine 12 Wine: pre!. 13 Sketched 18 Villain 
of drama 

23 Gave ex­pression !o 
25 Toward the sheltered side 
26 Pursue 28 Ushers in 29 Gem 30 Pedestal 
part 31 Madrid room 32 Arab port 
confessor to 5, 10A 34 Helmet 
decoration 37 Mme. Curie 40 French 
menu word 43 Palaces 46 Poisons, 
in a way 47 Gavel 48 A Gardner 50 Paris 
subway 51 Solo 52 Not in any 
way 53 King of the Pantheon 54 Chemical 
compound 55 Short end 57 Landers and 
Sheridan 60 Miss Claire 61 Fruit 
spread 
66 Wooden shoe 33 Father 

I WfJNDei. WH/IT CDIIITAJ('S PL A,t/N/ N G ON I)OING?
\ . 


-~---~ ,_,.--~---.-.-·-----­
.. 

Wednesday, March 9, 1983-page 12
S~orts 
With Hudson promotion 
Faust shakes up coaching ranks 
By STEVE LABATE Before Faust appointed Hudson, be calling the plays next season from Sports Writer however, he interviewed several the coaches' box above the playing candidates from across the country. field. But in 1983, the person at the Perhaps overshadowed by The man whom Faust wanted the other end of his headset will be Mal Brian Boulac's move from assistant most, though, he could not get. Moore, the new running back coach. head coach to associate athletic It is rumored that Gerry wanted Moore spent the last 17 seasons as direct.or were the other coaching the University of Florida's offensive an assistant to Paul "Bear" Bryant at staff changes instituteci by Notre coordinator, but the two men could Alabama. Moore became available Dame football coach Gerry Faust not come to terms. The Florida when, as a candidate for Bryant's and announced last Thursday. coach aparently wanted control of vacated job, he lost out to Ray 
Tom Lichtenberg, the 1982 of­the Irish quarterbacks in addition to Perkin:;. Then to add insult to injury, fensive coordinator, is now the coordinating the offensive unit. But Moore was let go by Perkins as the Notre Dame recruiting coordinator the signal callers are the property of former New York Giant head coach and receiver coach. For Tom, it is his Hudson, and with that stumbling housecleaned the Bryant staff. third different staff spot in as many block, the man Faust wanted was According to Hudson. "much years as a member ofthe Irish coach­gone. responsibility will be placed 
on ing staff. In addition to his role as of­Meanwhile, Hudson plans to Mal's shoulders," especially on fensive coordinator, Lichtenberg shake up the offensive situation a bit. Saturday afternoons. sei"Ved as quarterback and receiver "It will be more wide open. The of­Forty-one-year-old Jim Johnson 
coach in 1981. fense will be limited to what we can becomes Gerry Faust's new assistant Ron Hudson, who was the quar­do best. We know Kiel can run, head coach, filling the void left by terback and receivers coach last Pinkett can run, as well as Bell." Boulac. Johnson, a holdover from 
season (his first with the Irish since However that is not to say that the Devine era, will also keep his coming from UCLA), was named as Notre Dame will abandon the pass. post as defensive coordinator. 
ichtenberg's replacement at of­Hudson expects he will have Kiel Jay Robertson will retain his spot 
fensive coordinator. Hudson will put the ball up 35 to 40 percent of on the staff as assistant defensive line 
also keep his job as quarterback the time. 
coach. As was the case in 1982, Ron will 
Hudson's appointment was a surprise and somehow its announce­ment got buried by . the news concerning Boulac. What was the 
Houston atop AP poll 
basis for the change in offensive coordinators? "Coach Faust felt he had to make a 
for second week in row 
change," explained Hudson. "Coach 
Lichtenberg wanted to get into dif­By MICHAEL A. LUTZ "Last year it was all peaks and val­ferent areas of the game as well. It Associated Press leys, we just peaked at the right was a positive move for both of time," Kirkpatrick said. "We are just them." more mature this season. This team 
The top-ranked Houston Cougars, has not had any peaks and valleys. largely underestimate(! in the na­We are playing at a high rate of ef­tional collegiate basketball rankings ficiency." last season, now say the polls don't That efficiency has resulted in a matter. 25-2 record going into this 
"We learned last year that you can weekend's Southwest Conference
Irish face tough task in Hoosiers 
be ranked and get bumped off in the tournament in Dallas, a 20-game first round," Assistant Coach Terry winning streak, the nation's longest,
By MIKE RICCARDI Hoosiers run over them tonight. And weeks ago, Kronenberger scored 21 Sports Writer IU features a bruising inside attack, points and grabbed eight rebounds Kirkpatrick said yesterday as the and two victories over SWC rival, keyed by Denise jackson and Rae­in 15 minutes. If the streak player is 
Cougars retained their top billing in No. 6 Arkansas. It all comes down to this for the on this season's next-to-last Associated The Cougars strengthened their
helle Bostic. In the latest NCAA tonight, Schueth and the front Press poll. lead over No. 2-ranked Virginia, pol­Notre Dame women's basketball rankings, Jackson's numbers of 13 line may have its hands full. 
"We know this year that the only ling 43 first-place votes to nine for
team. Tonight's ACC encounter with rebounds and 22 points per game "They're a tough team up front," thing that really counts is when you the Cavaliers.
Indiana University (tipoff 7:30) will were good enough to place 12th and says Schueth, who has averaged 12 get to the Final Four and win there. Louisville, 27-3, remained third
go a very long way in determining 33rd nationally. Bostic adds l 7 points and nine boards to lead the the post-season fate ofthe Irish. points and nine boards a night. Irish, and was named an academic Then you are really No. 1." followed by UCLA, 22-4 and North The Cougars slumped midway Carolina, 25-6. 
A win tonight will give Notre Either of the IU forwards have all-American. "Just a great challenge through last season and were Rounding out the top 10 were No.
Dame its first 20-win season in Divi­scored 20 points on all but four oc­-but we're ready. We know how ignored in the polls before becom­6 Arkansas, 25-2; No. 7, Indiana, 22­
sion I play, and will almost certainly casions-and on all but one ofthose important this game is to our post­ing a Cinderella team and advancing
land the Irish in a post-season occasions, the Hoosiers lost. season chances. We've been treating 5; St. John's, 24-4; Nevada-Las Vegas, to the NCAA semifinals where they 25-2 and Kentucky, 21-6.
tournament. A women's NIT bid "It's of paramount importance lost to eventual champion North
would be a lock, and a berth in the that we get strong performances 'see HOOSIERS, page 9 see POLL, page 9Carolina.
NCAA Tournament would not be from Ruth Ann (Kaiser), Trena out ofthe question despite that tour­(Keys) and Schoothie (Mary Beth ney's tight 32-team draw. Schueth)," says DiStanislao. Mary DiStanislao, however, would "They've got to be our enforcers on 

Paxson 
rather not look at the game as a the boards, and they've got to take it 
playofffor a spot in the big show. to jackson and Bostic -if we can 
dominates

"The way the NCAA Tournament get them in foul trouble, they can't is structured, and with the arbitrary score from the bench." but influential nature ofthe Top 20, I While Jackson and Bostic are the 
awards 

can't say we'd get in if we beat IU," keys, ·they aren't Indiana coach 
Senior all-American John Pax­says DiStanislao. "I'd say, however, Maryalice jeremiah's only weapons. 
son walked away with five that we deserve to go if we win. Guards Amy Metheny and Linda 
awards, including the MVP.award We'd be 20-7, and have beaten the Cunningham are among the Big Ten 
(voted by his fellow players) and winners of the Gateway Conference assist leaders, and Indiana's game 
the student-athlete award ­(Illinois State) and the . MAC plan will be for their adept lead 
both for the second consecutive (Miami), and at least the Big Ten people to find the big players under­
season -at the annual basketball runner-up (Indiana)." neath. Cunningham, however, will 
banquet held last night at the Indiana, 17-9, suffered an upset take the outside jumper -she is 
ACC. Paxson also took home the loss Sunday at Illinois and will play at averaging 11 points a game -and 
• 
award for assists leader ( 1 06), in Ohio State Friday, where a win will owns the team's third highest 
addition to the Captain's Award 
tie the Hoosiers with the Buckeyes average. 
and a plaque for joining the 1000­atop the Big Ten standings. "That's been our approach all 
point club. "Indiana would be an impressive year," says jeremiah. "We expect 
Senior Bill Varner · garnered win for Notre Dame -it would put Amy and Linda to find scoring op­
Most Improved Player honors them with the top Midwest teams," portunities and get it in to Denise 
and also the Father Tom Brennan says women's basketball expert Mel and Rachelle." 
Award for free throw accuracy Greenberg of The Philadelphia In­Metheny has plenty of reason to 
( 71 percent). Freshman Tim quirer, who compiles the weekly be psyched for tonight's game, says 
Kempton received the Most Ac­Top 20. "But I don't know that it Irish center Mary Beth Schueth, a 
curate Shooter ( 61 percent) and would be enough to get them into native of Indianapolis and a high 
Rebounding (6.2 per game) the tournament. There really aren't school teammate of Metheny's at 
awards. that many berths open when you Perry Meridian. "l think she wanted 
Senior Tim Andree was given realize that there are 12 teams cur­to come to Notre Dame, but the year 
the Role Player of the Year 
john Paxson and Bill Varner share a good time at last night's 
Award, while senior walk-on Karl rently in the Top 20 who won't get she came out was NO's first of Divi­
annual basketball banquet. Tomorrow night the two seniors will
automatic bids (as conference sion 1," says Schueth. 
Love received honors as Blue 
participate in their last regular-season game for the Irish, as 
Team Player of the Year for bestchampions)." IU also has a 6-3 center, Julie 
Dig;ger's squad takes on Northern Iowa. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
performance by a member of the forget about playing next week ifthe late. Against Michigan State two However, the Irish women can Kronenberger, who has come on of second team. 






