Tune-up tips -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 33 tht: indt:pt:ndt:nt studt:nt nt:wspapt:r st-r\·ing notrt dame and saint man··s TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1983 

Five commissioners investigating murder of Aquino resign 
Associated Press Rolando Galman, the man the government says shot Aquino. MANILA, Philippines -President 
Aquino's death sparked Ferdinand E. Marcos suffered anoth­
demonstrations by opponents call­er political setback yesterday when ing for Marcos' resignation. Two all five panelists investigating the 
protests ended in riots killing 12 murder of opposition leader 
people. Benigno Aquino resigned because The commission's collapse was 
their impartiality had been ques­the latest in a series of blows to tioned. Marcos. President Reagan has can­"It appears that the image of the 
celed a November visit to Manila, 
commission for impartiality and and a day later a 21.4 percent cur­capacity ofits members to do justice rency devaluation was ordered. to every man are being questioned," Yesterday's resignations came af­four of the five resigning commis­ter a refusal by veteran lawmaker sioners said in a letter to Marcos. Arturo Tolentino, a loyal Marcos 
Opposition leaders and Aquino's party man, to head the commission. family charged the panel was biased He said his presence would be solely and under Marcos' control. "cosmetic" and he proposed that a 
The presidential palace said in a 
new panel be created independent­news release that Marcos "remains 
ly, not by the president. receptive to suggestions in order to 
Marcos said he was considering allow a full, impartial and un­forming a new panel and would restricted inquiry ... and to punish "take into account" Tolentino's sug­bers yesterday. The commissioner said they are quit­whoever might be guilty." gestions. ting to give way to a more credible panel. See the AP Aquino was gunned down at the The commission's original chair­story at rightfor more information. Manila airport Aug. 21 as he 
man, Supreme Court Chief Justice returned from voluntary exile in the Enrique Fernando, resigned last 
United States. The government says month after opposition charges that the assassination was a communist 
he was subservient to Marcos. plot carried out by a gunman who 

Sen. Quayle tells ND law students 
The five commission members 
was shot and killed at the scene by 
touched off a one-minute standingguards. The opposition claims it can 
produce witnesses who saw govern­

'War Powers Act unnecessary' 
see MARCOS, page 5 
ment soldiers kill Aquino and By KAREN McCLOSKEY The president, as commander in Soviet intentions in the Lebaneseand PAUL McGINN chiefofthe armed forces, claims the 
conflict. 
StaffReporters right to deploy forces; Congress, be­cause of its "power of the purse Sen. Dan Quayle, R-Ind., told strings," could block any such Notre Dame Law School students presidential action · by cutting 
Changes planned for 

Jr. Parents Weekend 
yesterday the War Powers Act is un­defense funds, he said. mally held in Sacred Heart Church, necessary because "Congress can Quayle noted that in the latestBy SUSAN SAKER will also be held in the arena of the impose its will anytime it gets the Congressional debates President 

News Staff 
ACC so as to alleviate overcrowding guts to do it." Reagan's reasons for sending tnxlps Plans are under way for the 1984 in recent years. University President The War Powers Act, adopted in to Lebanon were overshadowed by Junior Parents' Weekend, scheduled FatherTheodore Hesburgh has been 1973, created a procedure to check "procedural arguments" about the 
for Feb. 17-19, and its organizers asked to celebrate the Mass but he the constitutional tug-of-war be­length of time the Marines should have made several changes from last has not yet given an answer, said tween the president and Congress remain there. year's event in order to accom­Schmutz. about the deployment of troops to The IS-month limit was adopted modate large numbers of family Other events will be scheduled hostile areas, Quayle said. to avoid conflicts with the 1984 members who would attend. similar to last year's proceedings. Congress invoked the act last presidential election and to allow 
Mike Schmutz, chairman of this Saturday morning, all four academic month after two U.S. Marines in Lebanon to stabilize its government, year's JPW committee, said major colleges will present informational Lebanon were killed Aug. 29. according to Quayle. events will be re-located for both workshops for parents and students, -President Reagan and Congress Reagan administration officials Sen. Dan Quayle 
financial and logistical reasons. and faculty members will speak agreed to invoke the War Powers want to establish a strong central Duringa question and answer ses­
The cocktail dance on Feb. I 7 will concerning their respective fields. Act for 18 months. government and remove all foreign 
sion, Quayle commented on the

be held in the arena of the ACC in­Saturday evening, dinner will be Quayle, a membcr of the Armed troops from Lebanon while securing stationing of the presidentialstead of the Century Center. This served in the fieldhouse of the ACC Services Committee, termed the Israel's northern border, he said. 
"doomsday" plane at Strategic Airchange would allow Notre Dame after which parents and students are War Powers Act a "clumsy piece of Quayle said the recent deploy­Command's Grissom Air Force Base

Food Services to cater the meal and invited to attend receptions within legislation" whose purpose is to ment of Soviet SS-21 medium range near Kokomo, Indiana.
thus cut down on the cost of the the dorms. control "the very jealous jurisdic­missiles in Syria destabilizes the weekend, Schmutz said. tional framework that the Congress entire Middle East, and has made ad­
see JPW, page 5 see QUAYLE, page 4
Mass on Saturday afternoon, nor-and the executive branch share." ministration officials nervous about 

K of C Grand Knight says no to rentals 
ByELIZABETH FLOR Anthony. News Staff Student Body President Brian Cal­laghan agreed, saying, "This is a real­ly good lesson for us, ofall the things
joe Anthony, grand knight of the 
that do need to be looked at and the Knights of Columbus, said their people that do need to be talked to."
building is for their use only and The resolution should not havethey are not interested in renting been passed, Prevoznik said, be­out their building as party space, at cause of an initial agreement made last night's Student Senate meeting. 
in 1969 between the University and The Senate's resolution, which the KnightsofColumbus. The agree­

proposed making the Knights of ment says that the building can onlyColumbus building open for party be used to host non-alcoholic events rentals, caused a "misunderstanding sponsored by a Knights ofColumbus 
among all ends," Peggy Prevoznik, member.
student body vice-president, said. SeeElizabethFlor's storyatrightfor the latest, "We are sorry for the misconception 
see STUDENT SENATE, page 5 

and appreciate your help," she told 




The Observer Tuesday, October 11, 1983 -page 2 

lit Brie£ 
Sister Kathleen Reilly, administrative assistant for spt·cial projects at S-aint John'~ Medical Center in Anderson, Indiana, will join tht· Saim Mary's College Board of Regents Oct. 20 when the ( :ollcgc'~ governing body convenes for its first meeting of 1983-84. A 196'i graduate of Saint Mary's, Sister Kathleen received her mas­tt·r·~ degrn· in business and managerial accounting from George Wa~hington l 'nivn~ity in 1973. Sister Kathken served as principal of St. ( :nTiia'~ Academy in Washington, D.C. from 1976-8 I and 'JWnt two years a~ an adminiMrative assistant for tlnancc for the ( :atholic 'choob oflke of the Archdim.'l'M: of \X'ashington. D.C. 
The 0/Jserr•er 
A funeral mass will be ht'ld at 3:30 today for Brother Damien Dade, H2. in tht· Chapel of St. Joseph's at lloly Cross llrotlwr' Center. Daek died unexpt'Ctedly early Sunday morning in St. .fo~cph Mnlicll Center. lie had bn·n living at Dujuark llouse for the pa't year. Damkn rt·t-eived his nickname ofthe "Rosary Brother" from hi~ vaM collcnion of rosaries, some of which arc quite rare. lie rt'tTivnl two had1dor of art~ degret·s, in English and history. and two ma~tl'f' ofarts dt·grees, in history and biology from Notre Dame. I k also hdd an honorary dol'toratt· degree. Burial will be in St 
Joseph ( :cnwtcry. -Tbe (>hserr•er 
Cardinal Terence Cooke was eulogized yester­day as a "prkst's priest" at a fum·ral designed as a "celebration ofjoy" and attended hy 1,000 white-robed priests, government oft'icials, cckbritk~ and a former president. "It is not within our power to otli:r adt·quatc thanks to (iod for the life of Terence Cooke," said Cardinal William Baum, the top-ranking American in tht· Vatican, who said ht· brought a special mt·ssage from the pope. In his prt·part·d homily. llaum said Pope John Paul II "realizes fully that a dose and trusted friend has dt·partcd from this world." Cooke, said Ballin. "opt·m·d hb ht·art to all," loved hs native New York, "gave himsc·lf compktdy to his Lord and to hi~ peopk" and was especially 'l'nsitivt· to the ntTtb of priests. "Tt·rencc Cooke was, in the best sense. a prk~t·~ priest," Baum said. Crowds were four and five deep lwhind womkn police barriers across Fifth Avt·nue and spilled over onto side Mreet., :~sa procession ofprksts. from cardinah to curates, tlkd into Sl. Patrkk's Cathedral. Tickets for places in the cathedral, tlw svmbol of Cooke'~ authority in life ant.! the resting place of his rcma.ins m death. wnt· hdd hy about 2. 'iOO people. including former President Nixon. conwdi:~n Bob llopt·, (iov. Mario Cuomo. United Nation' Snn·tary (icneral Javier Perez de Cuellar and t(mncr New York governor~ II ugh Carey and Malcolm Wilson. -.4P 
A British journalist who nu·ntly spent six wc:eks in Afghanbtan rcportnl yesterday that anti-Communist Moslem guer­rilla~ cannot cope with the "enormous" modt·rn firepower of the Sovkt troop~. "I would eMimatc tht· rd)t:b can only last a couple more ~Tar~ ... wrote Ross Benson. d1ief-forl'ign correspondent for l.ondo·n·~ nJn~t·rvative J)ai/)' I:'.\1Jress newspapt·r. lie said Soviet hdicoptt'f gun~hip~ and new Sovkt units from Eastern Furopt· wert· waging a campaign of "gnwcidt·" again~! poorly equipped resis­
tann·11ghter~. "Judged solely from a military standpoint. the Soviets' policy i~ proving remarkably dlcctive." Benson wrote. "The dt·,tntl'lion wrought by thi~ modern firepower is enormous and the rebd~ do not have the wt·apons with which to tight back." The: London-ba.,t·d journaliM said Ill' and photographer John Downing 
entered Afghanhtan from neighboring Pakistan with false identifica­tion papn~ and disguised a.~ Afghans. Western analysts estimate ~ome I00.000 Sovkt troop~ have been in Afghanistan since 1979 ht·lping tht· govnnmt·nt tight a guerrilla insurrection. -AP 
Of Interest 
The film "Killing US Softly" will he shown 
!<might ;II 9 and I 0 in the Center tiJr Social Concerns. The film main­tain~ that mosl adverti~ing campaign~ arc underlined by psychologi­ctl and ~t·xual tht·mt·s. Tlw tllm sav~ tht· S'iO billion ad business protlt~ from fear~ ami in~tTuritit's. of consunwrs. The half-hour pn·sentation i~ ~pon~ornl by the Notn· Dame: Women's Caucus. ­
I be (>hserr•<•r 


·Weather · ~ · 
. 
. 
A 60 percent chance today of thundershowers. 
Mostly doudy and mild with high in mid 60s. An 80 percent likelihood of thundnshowers tonight and tomorrow. Warmer tonight with low in mid 'iOs and cooler tomorrow with high in mid to uppt-r 'iOs. -A!' 
· 


Cap'n Crunch and complacency 
As you sit in the dining hall these days, you may 
notice something in the air. Or the lack ofsomething in 
the air. 
As goes the conversation in the dining hall, so goes the campus. But what is being discusst·d over the chick­en sandwiches at lunch this semester~ 
Not much, beyond Cap'n Crunch. sidewalk construc­tion and a mediocre football season. 
When a children'!> junk food cereal and artistic methods of displaying concrete becoming the burning issues ofour time. you know problems arc on their way. 
Yct vast strides in terms of campus improvemelll have been made since May. 
Tht.· renovations of LaFortune, the Engineering Auditorium and Washington Hall top the list. The dedication ofSaint Mary's llaggar College Center is now history. Recently-paved D-6 is a lot anyone would be proud to park their vchidc on. Th<' lighted Stepan courts art· an answer to the prayers oflate-night basket­
listening. 
This year's United Way campaign is an example. It 
was decided that dorm competition was perhaps not 
the best way to encourage students to contribute. This 
decision is tine, but another approach should have been 
developed with the help of students who had the time 
and dt•sire to promote the campaign. Because this 
wasn't done, the 1983 campaign will probably be the 
least successful in years. It couiJ have worked, though. 
The siiUation hit a low point last week with Student 
Senate's failed Knights of Columbus proposal. In the 
end, Studt·nt Senate, the Knights and Dean Roemer all 
came out looking bad. 
That situation stands unresolved. The three sides haven't sat down together to discuss it. The conflict is drawing more attention than it would have merited in the past, because so little else is going on. 
This isn't apathy we arc dealing with. It's worse. It's complacency. People arc settling for too little because they arc afraid ofthe consequences if they do too much. 
Margaret Fosmoe 
Managing Editor 

Inside Tuesday 

When the K. of C. proposal was first turned down. Student Senate dccidt·d not to risk a confrontation be­cause it would lead to a "breakdown in communica­tion" which could mean nothing dse getting accomplished the rest of the year. 
The sad thing is that they were right. It probably would mean just that. But, obviously, there was a break­down in communication long ago. or this would never have happened. 
We've gotten a link lazy this year. We've gotten a 

hall worshippers. And the tlnal rolls of sod were being placed on the Fieldhouse mall just as Dean Roemer was preparing his tlrst "save the lawns" directive of the year. 
Then what happened? 
After many long months of rapid progress, things have hit a screeching halt. For a time, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's administrators and students were really listening to each other. 
These  improvements  are  
evidt·ncc of that.  
Suddenly,  nothing  is  
going  on.  Conditions  arc  

stagnating and no one is 
linlc complacent. \X'e have 
to get thing~ moving again 
or the dining hall conversa­
tion is going to become 
more redundant. 
There is a point where the options have to be weighed. It has to be decided whether settling for complacency is worth it. 
If nothing else, by the time you leave Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, you have to know what you believe in and what you're willing to stand up for. You have to know if there is anything you arc willing to risk every· thing for. 
Sometimes it's not so 




r-------------------------·------------·•I 
I
I THEHOLYCROSSASSOCIATES I 
I I

I PROGRAM IN CHILE I 
I I I I 
-1 
I 
I 
I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 


APPLICATION DEADLINE NOVEMBER 1st 
~--------------------------------------­
much what you do (within 
reason). but just the facr that you do something at all. 
Right now, a whole lot of people arc settling h>r not 
doing anything at all. 
Besides, stirring up the tire keeps things interesting. There arc some real benefits to keeping everyone on their toes. Then, when something really important needs to he accomplished, you find all the small insur­rections along the way have made it a little easier. It also increases the spectrum oflunchtime conversation. 
Next time Cap'n Crunch leads offthe list ofnoontime topks, maybe you should start to worry. 
Observer note._____-.­
The opinions expressed in the Inside column are those of the author and do not necessari­ly reflect the views of The Observer or its editorial board. 

~-The_Ohs.eryer__ 
Compo.o,·ltion Editor ...... Thomas Small 
Lay<>ut Staff............. ..... .. ..... Tom 
1)•pesellers .. .... Tracy & Carol News Editor................ . ...... Victor Sciulli 
Copy Edilor....... ... Marc Ramirez Sports Copy Editor .............jeffrey Blumb ND Dav Editor ................ Melinda Moore .\MC Da)• Edilor.......................)odk Radler Ad Design .............................................jeanie Photographer........ .... Mike May Guest Appearances... Dzavr, T)'ping Mar· garet, In-and-Out Scully (I owe you two pop-tarts), Kevin, Bower (hey bud­dy ). Sarah ( flomc-work bound), Mr. 
\'., Kym the Puritan. 
Quole ofthe Day 
}'ou said it u•oultl ht• b11rr/er in the• morning I u·aitforyou to Sl~l' 'just go'. 
Stt•r•ie Nicks 
The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Obaerver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Saml Mary's College. Subscnpl1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($ t 5 per semester) by wntmg The Obeerver. P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
The Obeerver IS a member of The Aaaoc:leted Pntu. All reproductiOn nghts are reserved. 


The Observer 

The Observer/Mike May 
Nora Lynch takes some time to study between classes against the well outside ofO'Shaughnessy Hall. The cooler weather bas caused fewer stu­dents to relax and to catch up on studying outside. 


The News Department will be accepting applications tor a Sunday Day Editor. This is a paid position. Anyone interested should contact Dave Grote at 239-5303 or 283-1165. 
Previous experience not necessary. 

Tuesday, October 11, 1983-page 3 

Mechanics offer maintenance tips for South Bend winter driving 
By.KEVIi~ BINGER 
StaffReporter 

There are three simple steps you 
can take to protect your car from the 
upcoming South Bend winter: drive 
it home, put it in your garage, and 
leave it there. 

If you can't part with your car, however, you can increase your chances of getting through winter with some preventative main­tenance. Here is a list of things to check before the snow starts falling: 
-The radiator: David Dudeck of Mike's Maple Lane Standard, I706 South Bend Ave., recommends the radiator be flushed every other year. Flushing a radiator cleans dirt and foriegn materials out of the cooling system. 
Flushing solution can be found in 
any auto parts store, and the proce­
dure may be performed by anyone. 
Drain the radiator, add flushing solu­
tion, reseal the radiator, and run the 
car at idle for 10 to 15 minutes. Then 
drain the solution and put in fresh 
anti-freeze. The correct ratio ofdnti­freeze to water is 50-SO. Mike's currently charges $19.99 
for flushing radiators, and this in­cludes checking all the hoses for leaks. insufficient anti-freeze could cause the engine to freeze and crack. 
"If you have a cracked engine block, that's the end of it," says AI Veldman, owner of AI Veldmil"n's Standard, Highway 31 and Dixie Way South. "It's very expensive (to repair)." 
-The battery: If you don't have a sealed battery, remove the caps and make sure the solution covers the metal plates inside. If it doesn't, just add water. 
"Ifyou have a weak battery in the 
summer, it's sure not going to start 
in the winter," says Dudeck. 
-The oil andfilters: The oil, oil fil­ter and air filter should be ch.anged every 2,500 to 3,000 miles, no mat­ter what the season. Most service 
stations use 10w-40 all-season motor oil. The air filter should be changed 
only if dirty. If you can't see light through it. change it. 
-Plugs and points: Both Dudeck and Veldman recommend a tune-up to check the plugs and points and ad­just the carburetor. 
The points are located in the dis­
tributor cap, through which the current passes from the battery to the plugs. All but very late model cars have points in the distributor cap. 
When starting the car. 12 volts of 
electricity run through the points. 
This is when the points can burn out. 
When the car is running. only 6 volts 
run through the points. 
If the plugs are fouled, the car will 
not start without grinding, risking 
burnt out points and a run-down bat­
tery. 
An owner with a spark plug wrench can change spark plugs. Un­screw the plugs, being careful not to chip the ceramic casing. and ~emove them. If the tips are black, replace them. 

Laundromat dirty students claim 
newspapers, debris, and lint scat­
By BARBARA STEVENS 
tered on the floor. 
Frank Johnson, one of four super­If you want to see a clean Badin visors ofa janitorial staff of 250, said Hall laundromat, your best bet is to the room is cleaned in the morning. wash your clothes early in the day, "But the room is small," said according to a supervisor of Johnson, "and with hundreds of janitorial services here. people going in and out it's not 
Students who use the washers and going to stay clean all day. Also, the dryers at night or during the after­front door is left open, so debris gets noon often find leaves, old trapped in there." 
News Staff 

? ??????????????????????l)?????????????????????????·un?????? ·? 
? I? ? Will you ever tip a robot at your favorite restaurant? :? ? Will you ever live on the moon or planet hesburgh? 
1 ?~-:

? Will your children do their homework and write papers ? on your family home computer? 
? ?
? Will you hear 'Radio Moscow' on your Walkman because of satellites? 
? 
?? ?

Find Out!
? ?? ?

? i? 
? ? ?

!\ Dr. Gerard K. O'Neill 
~ "Our next Century on Earth and in Soace' 
; 
?? ? 

~ 8 PM Library Auditorium '? 
? Tuesday Oct. 11 ? ? ? ??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 
WATCH FOR ME ... 
ON OCTOBER 17th! 
Johnson said the cleaning staff can't afford to devote too much time to any one area. The staff is respon­sible for cleaning all the dorms and academic buildings. Badin's laundry is thoroughly cleaned over the breaks when the staff ha..-; more time, and when there are fewer people 
using it. 
He also said that he has not heard any complaints about the condition of the laundry. "We need feedback from the students. If something isn't brought to our attention, it,becomes an oversight. We want to respond to the students, so we appreciate their comments." 
Not all students are unhappy with the condition of the laundry facility. "Generally it's clean." says Jim Brown, a junior from Grace. "It's clean at the beginning of the day. When there are a lot ofpeople in it at night, it's pretty dirty. hut they can't help that. What they need to do is build one (a laundry facility) on 
north quad." 
College celebrates birthday 
ByJOE MERCHANT 
News Staff 
Celebrations commemorating Saint Mary's College's I.'>9th Foun­der's Day began last night and will continue today with a full schedule ofactivities. 
To portray this year's theme, "A Walk Through Time," Saint Mary's students will wear authentic uni­forms which were required apparel for SMC students from I H60 to I962. At 4 p.m. today. teams of four from each hall will compete in a trivia Scavenger Hunt, with the win­ning hall receiving a pizza party. 
After a 7 p.m. candlelight dinner for visiting alumnae, there will he a short slide presentation on the his­tory of the College. Sister Maria McDermott will speak after the lecture. To cap off the day's fes­tivities, students will be treated with a surprise double feature at Haggar College Center. 
Saint Mary's was founded I 39 years ago hy Father Edward Sorin and his colleagues Mother lutgela and Father Moreau. Since then, Saint Mary's students have annually celebrated the school's beginning. The Founder's Day festivities serve to increase stu­dent awareness of the school's past. 

• ·4···..~ ,;,. .. -•. ~ .. ····~ ......... W.'V""'arl..,......~......................................... .-.......... ' .. ' .................. """'~ 

The Observer Tuesday, October 11, 1983 -page 4 
Outraged citizens mourn Burma bombing; North Korea accused 

An tmitlenlifi<•d South Korean neu•snum injured in the bombingAP Photo in Rangoon, Burma. Sunday u•hih• accompanying President Chun /Joo-1/u•tm on a stale t1isillo Burma, relunts to Seoul yesterday by special fJ/ane. 
Tentative settlement reached in Canal case 
Associated Press 
SEOUL. SOuth Korea 
Thousands of outraged mourners 
rallied yesterday to denounce the 
Burma bombing that killed 16 mem­
bers of a South Korean presidential 
dekgation. President Chun Doo­
hwan said thc bla.~t was aimed at him 
and accused communist North 
Korea ofinstigating it. 
Chun, who avoided the Sunday explosion by minutes because his motorcade was delayed in traffic, an­nounced nationwide mourning when he returned horne: carly yes­terday. He decried the attack that killed his senior advisers, including four key Cabinet ministers and his closest friends. 
"We will not be theonlyoneswho point to the North Korean com­munists, the most inhumane group of people on earth, as the per­petrators ofthe brutal crime to harm me as head ofstate of the republic," Chun said. 
No group has claimed respon­sibility for the bombing, which wrecked a ceremonial site in the Burma capital of Rangoon, killing 19 people and wounding 48 on the first day of a scheduled 18-day Asian goodwill tour by Chun. 
He canceled the tour immediately and flew home. The government declared a state of alert for the armed forces immediately after the attack. 
Most of the dead were high­
ranking South Koreans, including 
four senior Cahinet members, the 
ambassador to Burma and Chun's 
press secretary. 
Long lines of mourners werc seen yestcrday at an altar for thc dead at the National Cemetery on thc edge of Seoul, howing and burning in­cense. Similar altars were ercctcd nationwide. 
• • • Quayle 

Associated Press 
LOS AN<;El.ES -A proposnl multimillion-dollar ~t·ttlt:ment in tht· l.ovt· Canal toxic contamination case was rt·achnl hetwt-cn Occiden­tal Petrokum and l,:H5 residents whose homt·s wt·n· huilt on a chemi­cal dump site, the company and at­torneys for tht· residents said yt·stenlay. 
Tht· tentativt· accord would 
resolve 9·f pl'fcent of the claims 
against Occitkntal Petrokum, (k­
citkntal Cht·mical Corp., the city of 
Niagara Falls, N.Y.. the county of 
Niagara ami the Niagara Falls School 
District. said (;ordon Reece, spokes­
man for thl' Los Angdt·s-hased Oc­
dtkntal Purokum. 
Tht· Love Canal Homeowners 
Associ at ion wa.' notitkd of the 
tentative agrt·t·menc hy mail over 
the weekend, and residents, al­
though pkasnl, had some rt·serva­tions, said Joannt· llak, a spokt·swoman for tht· group. "Then·'s ht·t·n falst· hope in Love 
Canal before," she said. "How can you get excited about knowing we can pay for our kids' kukemia down tht· line?" 
llooker Chcmical and Pla~tics Corp., a suhsidiary of Occidental, dumped more than 20,000 tons of chemical wastes into Love Canal for a decade hdore ahandoning the dump in 1955. when it was sold to 
tht· Niagara Falls Board ofEducation. Aschool and a housing development were huilt on the day-capped dump. 
Love Canal hecame a toxic-waste disaster in August 1978 wheh state health officials ordered the evacua­tion of pregnant women and children hecausc of possible con­
tamination of tht· community by kaking chemicals from a dumpsite. 
llooker said it had no respon­sibility after selling the propt·rty to the Niagara Falls Board ofEducation in 1952. llooker also said chemicals did not kak from the dump until af­tt·r the city of Niagara Falls broke: the day st·al that had bcen placed on top of tht· dump. 
montgomery® 
NOTICE to all students interested in TECHNICAL SALES/MGMT. career positions. MONTGOMERY ELEVATOR COMPANY will be re~•E:sented on ~C:l;npus TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, for a presentation and reception at 7:30p.m. Donor's Room, Morris Inn. Refreshments and snacks will be served. 
montgomery 
ElEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EOUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
policy questions. Quayle was the second spcakcr in a lecture: scrics sponsored hy the centcr to give stu­dents the opportunity to talk with policy rnakt·rs. 
John Gilligan, formt·r governor of Ohio and the Whit<: Center director, said Quayle was chosen because, as a member of the Armed Scrvices Committee, he is qualificd to spcak on the War Powers Act. The issue: is not only important. bccauc of its timeliness but bccause its profound 
constitutional questions havc all law studentslooking at it," Gilligan said. 

continued/rom page 1 
In the event of a nuclear attack on the U.S., the doomsday plane would scrve as a communications center 
from  which  the  president  could  
direct the country.  
Persons  living  in  the  area  

surrounding Grissom "always knew thcy were a Soviet target" and the dccision to move the plane: from its Washington ba~e "is not going to change: that one bit," he said. 
Quayk said persons living in the Kokomo area "have hccn supportive of keeping the Air Force: base open" to promote: growth in the economi­
cally troubled region, Quayle said. 
Asked about Secretary of Interior James Watt's rcsignation, Quayk remarkcd Watt was "one of few people who can go around periodi­cally offending 20 to 50 million Americans." 
While in South Bend, Quayle also spoke to the Region 4 convention of the American University Continuing Education Association and endorsed Republican mayoral candidates from Mishawaka and South Bend. 
Thc lecture was sponsored by the White Center, the department in the law school which studies public 

The Observer Tuesday, October 11, 1983-page 5 
Search on for Watt's successor; no favorites 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan ad­
ministration put its search for James 
Watt's successor on a fast track yes­
terday, looking first for a con­
servative Westerner as interior 
secretary. 
While no single name emerged as a clear-cut favorite, Reagan aides said the president hoped to an­nounce his choice in a week to 14 days. 
Presidential counselor Edwin Meese III insisted that no list of names was drawn up before Watt resigned, but he said the selection process would now begin in earnest. 
For the time being, Watt will remain as interior secretary, agree­ing to stay on the job until a succes­sor is confirmed by the Senate. Meese said the administration hoped to have its nominee cleared by the time Congress adjourns next month. 
While Meese refused to speculate about possibk successors, other ad­ministration and Capitol Hill sources said names in the running included former Sen. Clifford Han­sen, who was Reagan's first choice for the job back in 1980; Rep. Manuel Lujan, R-N.M.; Energy 
Secretary Donald Hodel, who served as Watt's top aide for two years; for­mer House Minority Leader John Rhodes, R-Ariz.; former Sen. James 
~ 

53 3 Terrace Lane 
Across from Martin's -tc (St. Rd.23) -tc -tc -il 

-il -tc -tc -tc 
: Hrs. Tue, Wed, sat 8:30-5:30 Buckley, R-N.Y., andJ.J. Simmons III, Watt's current top deputy. 
Hansen, of Wyoming, turned Reagan down before, mainly be­cause he did not want to be sub­jected to the stiff financial disclosures required of nominees. But Hansen said after Watt's resigna­tion that those requirements have been relaxed somewhat 
"I am sure the president has a lot ofgood people to consider and I am complimented ifl am one ofthem," Hansen said, adding that he had not yet been contacted by anyone from the administration. 
Watt, meanwhile, remained on 
vacation at the California ranch 

With the resignation of Interior Secretary james
where he read his resignation to 

Watt, these are some of the leading candidates who
reporters in a cow pasture. As Watt's 

have been mentioned as successors: j.]. Simmons III,
press secretary briefed reporters 

Interior Department Undersecretary; former Sen.
yesterday, Watt could be seen 

james Buckley, R-N. Y.; former House Minority Leader
playing tennis in the background 


with ranch owner Thomas Barrack 
"This is a period of decompres­sion for him," said Doug Baldwin, 
• • • Student Senate 
Watt's chief spokesman. Baldwin 
said Watt would probably stay at the 

continuedfrompage 1 
ranch until the end ofthe week 

However, Anthony said, "We are
Baldwin said Watt had come to 

more than willing to work with the
the conclusion at the end of last 

student senate. We would like to
week that it would be best for him to 

provide the community with a place
resign after the furor over his 

to go for activities such as dances."
wisecrack about "a black, ... a 

Anthony stressed the fraternity's
woman. twoJews and a cripple" on a 

willingness to support the student
coal-leasing advisory panel. 

****************************************************** 
: r-::~:\..Men's Hair Styling at its finest 1k~eei/S 1 
-tc ~~-: ·-:;; 'The Knights ofthe Castle' ~ 
* 
-tc .Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 w 0 I m·n t f. 0 
-tc Mon.9-2:3o e are n Y 1 u es r m camp 
* 
***********************iCOUPON ********* ** 
PROGRAMS 
Sponsored by the COUNSELING AND PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES CENTER ITNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DANE 

A program designed to help students identify thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that affect self-esteem, and to explore and practice new ways qf increasing positive feelings. 
BUILDING SELF-ESTEEM: 
BEGINNING DATE: Wednesday, October 19, 1983 TIME: 6:30-8:30 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: 

A program designed to teach partnl.!rs to communicate effectively and enhance their relationship by learning about exploring and practicing new skills to express their feelings in constructive ways. Both partners are required to attend. 
RELATIONSHIP ENRICHMENT: 
BEGINNING DATE: Tuesday, October 18, 1983 TIME: 6:30-9:00 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: 

DEVELOPING ASSERTIVE BEHAVIOR: A program designed to help to the
students realize 

~t 
We want you to look your best ftC, ~ this fall with a distinctive custom 2 72~0312 1 designers hair cut from the expert ..­stylists at the Knights. 277-1619 ~ 
Haircut, Shampoo *
* 
Blow Dry, Condition 

* 
Regular $15.00 *
* 
Now $8.50 with coupon *
*
* 
Applies to male patrons only 

*
* 
BEGINNING DATE: NO. OF SESSIONS: 
STRESS MANAGEMENT: 
BEGINNING DATE: 

importance of assertiveness, recognize and increase assertive behaviors, and distinguish assertive responses from other behaviors. Each student will have the opportunity to practice assertive behaviors through the use of role play techniques. 
Monday, October 31, 1983 TIME: 6:00-8:00 p.m. 
--=-5__ 

This program will focus on skills to successfully deal with stress. The purpose of the group will be to help students better understand the nature of stress, how it affects them, and how they can effectively cape with stressful factors in their daily lives. Each student will be assisted in desigining his/her own stress management program to 
meet his/her own individual needs. 
Tuesday, November l, 1983 TIME: 3:00-5:00 p.m. 
NO. OF SESSIONS: __:.4__

_  
MEN'S AWARENESS GROUP:  The purpose of this group is to bring men together to examine the effects of being born male, the sex role expectations men have, the responsibilities of being male, explore new ways of dealing with the demands made on males, to help students understand and clarify their own personal needs as males, and discover new ways of rela'ting with others. MeJTlbership is restricted to males.  

BEGINNING DATE: Wednesday, October 19, 1983 TIME: 7:00-8:30 p.m. 
NO. 
TO ENROLL: 
OF SESSIONS: All semester 
CalZ the Counseling and Psychological Services G'en"er at 239-7336 betoJeen 
9:00a.m. and 5:00p.m., Monday ·~~i'Piday. To partieipate in some of the 
groups, you may first need to make an appointment to see.the leader.. AU 

groups have limited enrolLment, so call or come by soon •f you are •nterested. 
The Counseling and Psychological Services Center ie located or, the 3rd. floor of the Student Health Center. 
APPboto 
john Rhodes, R-Ariz.; and Rep. Manuel Lujan, R-N.M. 
Also in the running are former Sen. Clifford Hansen, 
R-W:vo. and Energy Secretary Donald Hodel. See the AP 
story at leftfor the latest details. 

community by hosting some non­alcoholic events. 
The Knights will be talking with Dean Roemer to discuss their op­tions. 
The Knights of Columbus Build­ing Corporation, the organization which leased the building for SO years in 1969, does not like the idea of the building being used hy non­members, Anthony said. "We come and go, as students, but they keep it going," Anthony said. 
Callaghan is optimistic, hoping that among the senate, the ad­ministration and the knights, an agreement still may be reached. "Right now," Callaghan said, "there is a need for non-alcoholic events." He pointed out last Saturday's un­dergraduate night at Senior Bar which was attended by 200 to 250 students. 
Senior Bar, which holds 800 to 900 people, supports the under­graduate .nights.~ as long as we do not have them too often," Callaghan said. He thought that the publicity could be improved as no posters went up at Saint Mary's. Callaghan also suggested having class nights for the freshmen, sophomores and juniors. 
Callaghan expressed the need to eliminate the misconceptions about off-campus life, saying that many people worry needlessly about the additional costs and the safety ofoff­campus life. In either November or January, an off-campus week will be held so that information can he made available as early as possible to off-campus candidates. 
"Off-campus life has got to be 
pushed as much as possible," Callag­han said. "One of our main duties this year is to let people know how enjoyable off-campus life is." 
Rich Spolzino, off-campus senator, introduced a resolution to help parking problems ofoff-campus students. His suggestion is to reserve spaces for off-campus students in the stadium parking lot. 
Spolzino said, "Right now, it's for both on and off-campus students, and on-campus students are hogging the spaces. I don't think it's too much of an inconvenience to make them (on-campus students) walk a little farther ......" 
Spolzino argued that off-campus students often come to campus twice a day and have to park by Senior Bar, while on-campus stu­dents, who use their cars less fre­quently, occupy the prime spots. Spolzino plans to study off-campus use of the lot before he suggests a number ofspaces to reserve. 
Callaghan discussed the idea ot gtvmg off-campus students preference at registration so that they would get first choice of re­quired classes. This would help off­campus students plan their traveling to and from schooL However, he wants to check the number of off­
campus people and the percentage per major to see if some students 
might  get  ousted  from  needed  
classes.  
Callaghan  also  wishes  to  raise  

other issues at the meeting, namely the prospect of senior townhouses, financial aid and classroom renova­tions. 
• • .JPW 

continuedfrom page 1  siderably from last year's cost of $96,  
Sunday morning breakfast will be  but prices have not been finalized.  
served  in  the  fieldhouse.  Guest  
speaker  Father  Don  McNeill  will  Special hotel rates are  being ar­ 
give closing remarks recapping the  ranged for parents and the commit­ 
weekend  before  family  members  tee is asking major hotels to reserve  
and students say their goodbyes, he  certain sections so parents coming  
said.  in for the weekend can have the op­ 
All  necessary  information  portunity to get better acquainted..  
concerning  the  weekend  will  be  As in the case of all family events at  
sent to parents before Thanksgiving.  the  University,  parents  are  en­ 
Ticket prices for a student and two  couraged  to  make  hotel  arrange­ 
parents  should  not  change  con­ ments as soon as possible.  

• • . Marcos 

continued from page 1 
ovation when they announced their resignation before an audience of 300 gathered at a hearing room for a 
scheduled  resumption  of public  
hearings.  The  sessions  had  been  
suspended  since  Sept.  12  amid  

charges that it was not independent. 
Four members, all former Supreme CourtJustices, read a letter to Marcos saying it was a "painful" decision to step down. They sug­gested the formation of a new panel 
whose  members  would  be  
"acceptable  to  all  sectors  of  
society."  



Tuesday, October 11, 1983 -page 6

Vieweoint 
Jesse Jackson's bid for the presidency 

P. 0. BoxQ 
It was t:arly in tht: morning and I wao; walking to work wht·n out ofa huilding came .Jesst: Jackson. The civil-rights leader was drt·ssed in a husiness suit and accompanit:d by only one aide instead of his usual claque. I 
Richard Cohen Richard Cohen Column'· 
considered saying hello, reminding him that 
we had mel, and tht·n go on my way. Then I 
.spied the kid. 
lit: was hlack, about 16 years old, and walking fast. But wht:n ht· saw Jackson ht: stopped dead in his tracks and his mouth fell opt:n. Evt:n when he started to walk again, he did so slowly and dclibt·ratcly, looking over his shoulder at Jackson all the time. 
Now it could he that tht: kid would have reactt:d the same way to Walter Mondale or John Glt-nn, hut I doubt it. I doubt ht: would even have recognizt:d them. But ht: did not 
recognize Jackson. Only when Jackson wao; driven away did the kid resume his brisk walk. 
It wao; a small incident, hut it made an im­prt·ssion. I know nothing ofthe kid and for alii know he is a political junkie and has a scrap­hook filled with pictures of Democratic can­didates. But if he is a typical W ashingt• >11 teen-ager, he knows almost nothing ah!Jut politics, cares nothing about politics and feels -no, knows -that it has nothing to do with him. 
Now Jackson is considering whether to run 
for President, ostensibly as a way to get more 
blacks registered and involved in the political 
process. It is a risky proposition. Many blacks are against the idea for policy as well as personal reao;ons. Jackson may be popular among blacks in general, but some black leaders consider him nothing but a grandstan­
der -a silver-tongued orator who's all talk and no action. 
For other blacks, Jackson's potential can­didacy looms as a no-win proposition. They 
HUSH! INA AfOOfGETfiNG Ct{SETO'THE 
17M~ WUERE I WILL S'H(J((LY'E£ MAKING A 
H(J~NfOJS 
pE(I)ICV(HERL. 

know he can't win the nomination and fear he can only hurt the black cause. They think his candidacy could siphon off enough black votes to ensure the nomination of a con­servative Democrat -no big deal when it comes to civil rights, where all the candidates are in agreement. But there is no such agree­ment on the economic issues that arc paramaount to blacks. For this reason, some blacks think a Jackson candidacy could be a debacle. 
But on the day the kid spied Jackson, the 
newspapers reported on the number of Merit 
Scholarship semi-finalists from Washington. 
There were 52 -all but three of them stu­
dents at private schools. It could be, ofcourse, 
that some of the private school semi-finalists 
were black and maybe the ones from the one 
public school as well. But that does not change the fact that the entire Washington public school system, 94 per cent black, could only come up with three semi-finalists. 
What we have here in raw figures is the 
outline of a naU!Jnal tragedy. There are many causes for it and probably many solutions to it, hut one of them has got to he simple involve­ment -getting black youths involved in what is often called The System. They have to be made to understand that despite all the rhetoric to the contrary, it is their system, too, and it will respond to them if only they know 
how to push the right buttons. 
Voting is one such button. I[Jackson can get 
that kid to respond, ifhe can get him to under­
stand that his future is in his own hands, then 
his candidacy will not only have ac­
complished more than any of the others who 
fail to get the nomination, hut may be worth 
the problem it creates. 
ForJesse Jackson, the ultimate challenge is 
not the chance to broker the convention or 
flatter his own ego. It is, instead, a kid in 
sneakers. Ifhe can interest him in voting, then Jackson is a winner no matter what. In fact, we all arc. 
(c) 1983, The Washington Post Company 

Crunch contest 
/)ear Editor: 
In rt·sponst: to a It-ncr on Monday, (ktoher 
.-\ hy Jerry Powt:rs, tht: Sophomort: Class Of­
tin·rs wish to expound their position 
concerning the Cap'n Crunch l't:st. 
Mr. Powt:rs ohjt:cts mainly to two features of the eating contest. First, ht: statt:s that the omtt·st will "further prove the depths of (Notre Damt:'s) insulation from the rt:al world ofdouhlt--digit unemployment in South Bt:nd and otht·r 'rt·alitics' of our timt:s." Using this logk any fun on tht· part oftht: llnivt:rsity can prove this insulation. Pt:rhaps An Tostal, llomecoming, and even football gamt:s, wht·re thousands of pcopk come to have a 
{gasp!) good time, can provt: this insulation. 
Maybe instt·ad we should all stay homt: and 
sulk owr the faltt·ring economy. The Sopho­
mort: Class for ont: dot:s not think so. Our job 
is to hold t:vt·nts for the bt·ndit of the clao;s. 
The Cap'n Crunch Ft:st not only bt:ndlts the 
class hut the whok llnivnsity. 
Tht: second ohjt:ction Mr. Powers gives is 
that tht: Ft·st "is a primt: cxampk oftht· giving 
ofthe t:xct·sses ofyour t:xcesscs ratht·r than of 
your substance." lbe fact remains: At least we 
are giving. Incidentally the S1000 Quaker 
Oats is donating is in addition to SI 500 that 
tht· eatingcontt--st will cam in entry fees. Thus, 
directly because of the Cap'n Crunch Fest, 
S2SOO will be given to the needy. Without this 
event they would be ~ !500 more in need. We 
ao;k, is Mr. Powers requesting that we, the lJni­
vt:rsity, or Quaker Oats take this money away 
from tht:m? 

We have stated two partit:s, the llniversity and the net:dy, that will directly benefit from tht: Cap'n Crunch Fest. We wish to know ifMr. Powers can tell us anyone that doesn't! 
The Sophomore Class Officers 
Laundry stolen 
Dear Editor: 

As a freshman, I'm very impressionable tht:se first few months as to the character of this university. I hope to God the following t·pisodt: is not indicative. A few weeks ago I had a load oflaundry to do at Badin Hall. later, I put my dothes in the dryer (two loads) and rt:turned to my room, a'> I had much studying to do. Who would take somebody else's dotht:s, especially at a place likt: Notre Dame? 
Right ...wrong: I guess experience really is 
the great teacher. 
Well, alii can say is that the person with five new shirts, two new pairs of pants, and two pairs ofrunning shorts better be pleased. You, sir (God help me) obviously don't care at all about the reputation of your soon-to-be alma mater. You have just taken one-half of my frugal wardrobe. Ifyou read this letter, please consider returning these clothes to 367 Dil­lon. Ifnot, I hope they don't fit. 
Ifit appears I've tried to appeal to your con­science, you're right. On the other hand, it appears you have no conscience. 
Classmates, please bear with me until Christmas as I'll be wearing the same clothes every other day. 
Frank Pimentel 

Degree for Yaz 
Dear Editor: 
Some twenty years ago a freshman at Notre 
Dame decided to forego the remainder of his 
education to pursue a career in professional 
baseball. This freshman went on to distinguish 
himselfin the game as very few others have. 
As you know, Carl Yastrzemski ha'> retired 
after 23 seasons with the Boston Red Sox. He 
accomplished much during his careerand will be inducted into the Hall ofFame one day. Mr. Yastrzemski will be remt:mbered for how he played the game. His pride and determination to succeed, coupled with a true sense of sportsmanship are qualities which sustained his achievements. In a time ofdiminishing ex­pectations and tarnished heroes he has been 
committed to honest endeavor and ambition. 
I feel it would be appropriate to honor Mr. Yastrzemski with an honorary degree from the University. Though still not officially a Notre Dame man, Mr. Yao;trzt:mski ex­emplifies the personal values Notre Dame has always embodied. 
F. W.Dow,jr. Classof'73 
Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number, and signature ofthe author. Initials and pseudo­nyms are unm:ceptable. Reproductions, car­bon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subject to editing and bet:ome the 
property ofTht: Observer. 

Department Managers 

=======--Ihe~ -·-=,_....,.,""""-• •:~...rt:======= !~!!~:~!e~~~~~ ..........David Dziedzic 
/lox(!. Nt •Ire /Jc11m'. /.'\' ·ll>'i 'j(> (.! 1')) .!j'). 'iJOj Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
The OIJSt'rl't'r ·~ rht· rmkpt·mknr nt·w~papt·r puhli~ht·d hv rhe siUdt·nt~ of Iht: Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas \Tr"tv of Notre l>anu· du LK and Saint Man··~ Collt-gt· h doe~ not nect:~~arih· reflect News Editor ................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen till' polrut·~ of the atlrnmrstration of eitht·r instrtution The news is rt·portt:d as at· News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzaum:: i..a Croix nrratdy anti as ohwl'lin·lv as pcl'srhk llnsrgru·d t•diJorials rt:pre~ent tht· opinon of a .">aint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrsl\i Circulation Manager . ............. Mark Miolto m;qoritv of the hlrrorr;tl Board ( :ommentarit-s. kut:r~. and tht: lnsidt· Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamilto11 System Manager ............... Kevin Williams 1he vrcws of thnr ;1111 hors ( .otumn spatT rs a\·ailahk to all memhers ofthe communi!\', Photo Editor .................... Scoll Bower .111<1 t ht· frt't' expn·"ron of ,·.rrnng opmron~ on campu~. through lt-tters. ts t:ncouraged. 
.\j/()rfs Editor... .. ...... \1ichad Sullivan F'ounded November 3, 1966 

The Observer Tuesday, October 11, '1983 -page 8 
Nebraska no longer unanimous choice 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON 
AssocudtldPress 
For the first time In three weeks, Nebraska is not a unanimous choice as the nation's No. 1 college football team. 
The Cornhuskers' 14-10 squeaker over unranked Oklahoma State cost them five first-place votes in this week's Associated Press poll and also left them five points short of being a unanimous pick again. 
Nebraska received '5'5 of 60 first­place votes and 1, 195 of a possible 1,200 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. The Cornhuskers have been ranked No. 1 all season, starting with the preseason poll. 
The other five first-place ballots 
went to Texas, runner-up for the 
fourth week in a row. The Lon­
ghorns, who defeated Oklahoma 28­
16 and dropped the Sooners from 
eighth place to I '5th, totaled I, 144 
points. 
• • • Invite 
continuedfrom page 12 
that wa.~ tailored to ran· n>nditions. 
We hq~an the workout when all of 
us were aln·ady tired. 
"Althou~h most of tht· ~uys had an 
off race today, we're still a team of 
potential," continued Courtnt·y. 
"We're goin~ to keep gettin~ better 
throu~hout the season." 
The disappointing part of Friday's 
race for Notre Dame was that their 
final four men ran the lao;t two miles 
in over I 0: I 5, much slower than 
their first two miles. 
The best strategy to win in cross 
country is to get in front of the pack 
and stay there. At this time, some of 
the Notre Dame runners are having 
problems with the latter part of that 
simple strategy. 
For Bill Courtney, however, Coach Joe Plane's training methods have begun to pay dividends. One can only hope that the rest of the Notre Dame team will follow suit, because the Irish participate in the Indiana Big State meet this Friday at Purdue. 
• • . Tourney 
continuedfrom page 12 
The loss brings Notre Dame's 
record to eleven wins against three 
losses. This was the first game of the 
season for the Irish that did not end 
in a shutout for one team. 
Three Notre Dame players were 
nam<:d to the Panther All­
Tournament team. Forward Rich 
Herdcgen, fullback Dom Driano, and 
goalkeeper Mark Steranka each 
receivt·d this honor. 
IRISH ITEMS ...Junior Rich Her­degen leads the team in scoring, with 29 points this season. He has moved into a tie for third place on the all-time Irish scoring list, with 90 career points. 
Senior Roh Snyder is sixth on that list, with 70 points, and senior Ken llarkenrider is seventh, with 64 points. 
The Irish will play host Friday night to Marquette. The match hegins at H:OO under the lights at 
Cactil-r Field. On Sunday, Notre Dame will play Chicago on Alumni Field at 2:00. 
Although this week's Top Twenty consists of the same 20 teams as last week, there was considerable shuf­fling, with Alabama falling from third to 11th after losing to Penn State 34­
28. North Carolina, a 30-10 winner over Wake Forest, rose from fourth to third with 1,014 points and West Virginia, which was idle, climbed from fifth to fourth with 983 pojnts. 
Auburn, seventh a week ago, jumped to fifth with 866 points following a 49-21 rout of previously unbeaten Kentucky. Ohio State downed Purdue 33-22 and remained in sixth place with 861 points. 
Florida moved up from ninth to seventh with 836 points by whip­ping Vanderbilt 29-10. Georgia cracked the Top Ten for the first time this season, trouncing Missis­sippi 36-11 and vaulting from 11th to eighth with 725 points. 
Arizona went up from lOth to ninth with 702 points by crushing Colorado State 52-21 and Miami of 

APTopTwenty 
The Top Twenty colle,ge football teams in The As­sociated Press poll, With first·place votes 1n paren­theses. this season's records and total points. Pomts based on 20-19-18-t7 etc. Notre Dame oponents are 
italicized. 

1. Nebraska (55) 6-Q-0 1,195 2. Texas(S) 4-0-0 1,144 3. North Carolina 6-Q-0 1,014 4. West Virginia 5-Q-0 983 5. Auburn 4-1-0 
866 6. Ohio State 4-1-0 861 7. Floride 5-Q-1 836 8. Georgia 4-Q-1 72JS 9. Arizona 5-0-1 702 10. Miami 5-1-0 
600 
11. Alabama 4-1-0 
588 12. So. MethodiSt 5-0-0 583 13. Michigan 4-1-0 515 14. Iowa 4-1-0 
416 15. Oklahoma 3-2-0 314 16. Maryland 4-1-0 277 17. Washington 4-1-0 246 18. Arizona State 3-0-1 246 19. Illinois 4-1-0 
209 
20. Brigham Young 4-1-0 
96 
Florida jumped from 12th to 1Oth with a 42-14 rout ofLouisville, good for 600 points. 
The Second Ten consists of Alabama, Southern Methodist, Mich­igan, Iowa, Oklahoma, Maryland. 
Washington, Arizona State, Illinois and Brigham Young. 
Last week, it was Georgia, Miami, SMU, Michigan, Iowa, Maryland and 
Washington tied for 16th, Arizona State, Illinois and BYU. 
Associated Press 

INGLEWOOD, Calif -The Los Angeles Lakers signed veteran cen­ter Kaceem Abdul-Jabbar, the second-leading scorer in National Basketball Association history, to a multiyear contract and acquired a back-upfor him in a trade yesterday. 
The Lakers traded guards Norm Nixon and Eddie Jordan to the San Diego Clippers in exchange for cen­ter Swen Nater and the rights to un­signed guard Byron Scott. 
Nater will be used to back up the 
36-yeac-old Abdul-Jabbac, who has 
been a free agent since the comple­
tion ofthe 1982-83 NBAseason. 
As part of the trade, the Clippers also will receive at least one, and possibly two, future second-round draft choices. 

Abdui-Jabbac, a six-time NBA most Valuable Player, has been suffering from a mild case of hepatitis and will not be ready to play for two weeks, Lakers Coach Pat Riley said over the weekend. 
The 6-foot-4 Scott, the fourth pick in this year's NBA draft, and Nixon, a 
Lakers sign Jabbar; trade Norm Nixon 
six-year starter for the Lakers, were the key players in the trade. 
Scott, 22, established a single­season scoring mack of 713 points while scoring In double figures in 31 of 33 games last season at Arizona State and was a first-team All Pacific­1 0 Conference selection. 
Nixon was teamed with Eacvin "Magic"Johnson in the Lakers' back­court when Los Angeles won NBA championships in 1980 and 1982. The 6-2 Nixon, who turns 28 today, averaged 16.4 points per game as a Laker. 
Nater, 33, underwent surgery to repair a cracked kneecap in January, 1982. The 6-11, 250-pounder has played only seven games since then. 
The NBA's second-best reboun­der in the 1980-81 season with an average of 12.4 per game, Nater es­tablished numerous club rebound­ing records while playing for the Clippers. 
Jordan, 28, a reserve guard for the Lakers, had played for New Jersey and Cleveland before he was traded by the Nets to Los Angeles in 1980 for a first-round draft choice. 

Thursday Night Buffet 
is back....~·~ 
Ius all new Margarita Bar with 11 flavors 
•
IS now open. 
Margaritas will be on special from 8-11. Buffet opens at 11. 
_________________________________________________________________________________. 

The Observer Tuesday, October 11, 1983-page 9 
Saint Mary's goes 0-2-2 
ND tennis team takes second 
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755 

An Equal Opportunity Employer, U.S. Citizenship Required. 
• 
On campus recruiting October 17, 1983. 

YOU'VE GOT TO PLAY 
HARDBALL 
WHEN IT COMES TO YOUR CAREER 
THAT'S WHY NSA OFFERS YOU THESE EXCITING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING There are opportunities in a variety ·of research and development projects ranging from individual equipments to very complex interactive systems involving large numbers of microprocessors, mini· computers and computer graphics. Profeuional growth is enhanced through interaction with highly experienced NSA profeuionals ond through contacts in the industrial and academic worlds. Facilities for engineering analysis and design automation ore among the best available. 
MATHEMATICS 
You'll work on diverse agency problems applying a variety of mathematical disciplines. Specific assignments might include solving communications· related p-roblems, performing long-range mathematical research or evaluating new techniques for communications security. 
COMPUTER SCIENCE 
At NSA you'll discover one of the largest computer installations in the world with almost every major vendor of computer equipment represented. NSA careers provide mixtures of such disciplines as systems analysis and design, scientific applications programming, data base management systems, operating systems, computer ""'.,king/security, and graphics. 

THE REWARDS AT NSA 
NSA offers a salary and benefit program that's truly competitive with private industry. There are assignments for those who wish to travel and abundant good living in the Baltimore-Washington area for those who wish to stay close to home. Coun'tleu cultural, historical, recreational and educational opportunities are just minutes away from NSA's convenient suburban location. 
To find out more about NSA career opportunities, schedule an interview through your college placement office. For additional information on the National Security Agency, write to National Security Agency, Attn: M322, Fort George G. Meade, 
Maryland 20755. 
By KATHY MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team 
played their last home game of the 
season Friday night at the Angela 
Athletic Facility. Although the Belles 
won the match, they did not exactly 
go out in style. Despite inconsistent 
and mediocre play, the Belles 
managed to defeat the University of 
Michigan -Dearborn, 15-2, 13-15, 
5-15, 15-9,and 15-7. 
In the first game, Saint Mary's came out strong and quickly disposed of their opponent in a 10­minute game. 
In games two and three, Saint Mary's looked like a different team. They committed numerous errors on both offense and defense. 
The defense did not cover their 
positions, as the ball frequently hit 
the floor, while the offense could 
not set up any good scoring oppor­
tunities. 
"The girls were tentative," said 
Saint Mary's coach Brian Goralski. 
"They were all waiting for someone 
else to make the play. 
"We had a lack of mental con­centr:ation," said Goralski. "I think that the girls were trying too hard." 
However, the Belles bounced back to win the final two games of the match. The difference was a more solid defense and a more ag­gressive offense. 
Although the Belles were vic­
torious, Goralski was not very happy 
with his team's effort. 
"We played very well in practice (last) week," said Goralski, ''but we just didn't play well tonight." 
This season the Belles have a relatively young and experienced team. 
"The freshmen are not real ag­gressive," said Goralski. "I've been working with them after practice to· make them more aggressive." 
The Belles will need to play with 
more aggressiveness as well as con­
sistency when they face two tough 
opponents this week. Today, Saint 
Mary's plays Goshen and on Friday 
they face Marion. 
Saint Mary's will also meet these two teams in the NAIA pre­tournament in late October to com­pete for a bid to the state tournament. 
Goralski feels that it is very impor­tant for the team to do entering pre­tournament play. 
"Our team attitude is much better 
and the girls are really getting into 
playing volleyball," said Goralski. 
"As we continue to gain experience 
we will be a stronger team." 
Basketball ticket distribution 
Tuesday Juniors and all undergraduate students in the ninth semester or higher 
Wednesday Sophomores, graduate students, and law students 

Thursday Freshmen and any student who missed his/her appropriate day 
All tickets are being distributed at Gate 3 of the ACC from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame's ·women's ten­nis team defeated all but Western Michigan in the seventh annual Irish Invitational to earn second place. The Irish did win their other three matches in the tourney, against Central Michigan, Toledo, and Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's, meanwhile, besides losing to Notre Dame, also lost to Western Michigan and tied with both Toledo and Central Michigan. 
Irish coach Sharon Petro was pleased with her team's overall per­formance. The Irish lost only five of 24 matches during the tourney, with four ofthose being to Western Mich­igan. 
But Petro was not totally satisfied 
with the showing ofher team. 
"Inconsistency was a problem," 
said Petro afterward. "In some cases 
we would get ahead and then let 
down. That's how we lost some key 
matches." 

The strongest performance in the 
tournament for the Irish was by the 
second doubles team of Greta 
Roemer and Cathy Schnell. 
"They played good tennis," Petro 
LINGUISTS 

NSA offers a wide range of challenging assignments for Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian language majors involving translation, transcription and analysis/ reporting. Newly-hired linguists can count on receiving advanced training in their primary language(s) and can plan on many years of continued professional growth. 
remarked. "They were sharp all wed::end," 
Roemer and Schnell won against Western Michigan 6-4, 6-3; Central Michigan 6-0, 6-0; Saint Mary's 6-0, 6-1; and Toledo by default. 
Notre Dame's first doubles team · of Mary Colligan and Pam Fischette also had an undefeated weekend. They beat Western Michigan 6-3, 6­4; Central Michigan 6-0, 6-0; Saint Mary's 3-6, 6-2, 6-0; and Toledo 6-0, 6-1. 
Notre Dame's singles players all 
suffered at least one loss. 
First singles player Susie Panther 
lost to Western Michigan, 3-6, 6-4, 
2-6, but won against Central Michi­
gan, 6-0, 6-0; Saint Mary's 6-3, 6-3; 
and Toledo 6-1, 4-6,6-2. 
Second singles player Lisa LaFratta 
"played much better against Sue 
Weigand (ofWestern Mchigan) than 
last year," said Petro. "Lisa also had a 
nice win against Toledo." 
LaFratta lost to Western Michigan 
but won her other three matches. 
Laura Lee, Notre Dame's third 
singles player, "is playing much 
smarter tennis than ever before," 
said Petro. "She is much more con­
trolled." 
Lee's only loss ofthe weekend was also to Wc;:stern Michigan. 
Petro said that fourth singles player, freshman JoAnne Biafore, "had some problems," but yet the coach is not worried. She attributes Biafore's problems to being a fresh­man and having to adjust to the academic load, as well as to being an athlete. 
Biafore lost to Western Michigan 
and Toledo but won against Saint 
Mary's and Central Michigan. 
"She'll come along real well," said Petro. 
"We've a lot to learn from this weekend," Petro says. "If we can learn from this and apply it to some­thing more important it is for the best." 
Petro wishs that the team could get more tough competition in the fall, but many teams play few matches then. Petro said she likes the Irish Invitational because it brings in a lot of competition. 
Belles win despite errors 


~

The Observer Tuesday, October 11, l983 page 10 
Managers announce lineups 
Series opens tonight in Baltimore 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE Baltimore Orioles' Manager Joe Altobelli an· nounced a lineup yesterday for ·the first game of the 1983 World Series that did not include designated hit· ter Ken Singleton. 
"Believe me," Altobelli said, "I did some soul searching, even before we got this far, even while we were playing Chicago." 
While the Orioles were beating Chicago in four games in the American League Championship Series there was no problem. The designated hitter is a fixture in that league, including the playoff. 
The World Series, which begins 
here tonight, is another story. This 
year, being an odd numbered year, 
continuedfrom page 12 
Oh., where he earned many high 
school accolades as well. 
He was an honorable mention pick on both the Adidas/Scho/astic Coach and Coach and Ath­lete/National High School Athletic Coaches Association prep All· America teams as a senior, despite being hampered with an ankle injury much of the season. 
Doerger missed the entire 1981 

season due to knee surgery and was 
red-shirred, but did see limited ac­
tion at center last season when Mark 
Fischer was injured. 
Doerger has lived up to his "utility 

man" designation. 
"I don't mind having to switch positions on the line," Doerger says. "The more positions I know, the more I play, and the more I help the team. 
"Next year, it'll help me to have played all of the spots because Neil (Maune) is the only starter who graduates." 
The fact that only one starter 
graduates is a thought that appeals to 
!Iiggins. 
"It's not that we're trying to get 

young players the experience," Hig· 
gins says, "but that the whole line is 
young. 
"We are not trying to start a youth 

movement." Higgins states, "only 
trying 10 get the players in positions 
whne they will do the best job." 
The team has not experienced dif­lkulty making the adjustments that 
accompany the changes ofpositions. "All of tht· linemen have done a the designated hitter is not used in the World Series, and Altobelli had a decision to make. 
"The biggest thing is I didn't want to put Kenny in the outfield and have him do somethingthat would damage his career," Altobelli said. "He hasn't played out there for two years, and that would be a tall or­der." 
So, Altobelli announced a starting line-up, in batting order, of: AI Bumbry, center field; Jim Dwyer, right field; Cal Ripken Jr., shortstop; Eddie Murray, first base; John Lowenstein, left field; Rich Dauer, 
second base; Todd Cruz, third base, and Rick Dempsey, catcher. Left-hander Scott McGregor, 18-7 and loser of Game One of the AL 
pretty good job adjusting, including Larry Williams changing to quick tackle," says Selmer. 
"After we have had these injuries, we now have tested our depth to about eight players," continued Sel­mer. "Now, we can play more people on the line." 
Higgins was especially pleased with the line's performance at South Carolina. 
"Carolina's defense held USC to 
48 rushing yards, but we had 199 
yards on the ground," Higgins points 
out. "We made some particularly 
good adjustments against a couple of 
their stunts during the game." 
A good performance, granted, but 
the question of consistency con­
tinues to surface. 
The same line that marched up 
and down the field against Purdue, playoffs, will be the starter for Bal­timore. Right-hander John Denny, 19-6 and the losing pitcher in Game Two of Philadelphia's four-game Na­tional League pennant playoff vic­tory over Los Angeles, will start for the Phillies. 

Philadelphia Manager Paul Owens announced the starting lineup ofjoe Morgan, second base; Pete Rose, first base; Mike Schmidt, third base; Sixto Lezcano, right field; Gary Matthews, left field; Garry Maddox, center field; Bo Diaz, catcher, and Ivan DeJesus, shortstop. 
After McGregor, Altobelli said he would go with Mike Boddicker, then probably Mike Flanagan, a Ieft­hander. 
• • • Youth 
and failed to do so against Miami, has apparently worked out the consis· tency problem. 
"We have shown some consis­tency over the last two games," Doerger says. "If we can go out in the first half against Army and hit people hard and keep the pressure on, maybe we can continue to do it for the rest ofthe season. 
"I really think that we can do it," Doerger says, "partly because we are pretty close as a group, and work that way. All us guys hang around to­gether." 
The unity ofthis group should last 
at least one more year, for essentially 
this will be the same line that returns 
for next season. 
Maybe there is a youth movement 
happening on the Notre Dame of­
fensive unit. 
ARTS AND LETTERS BUSINESS SOCIE1Y 
---Important Meeting--­
Tonight, Tuesday Oct. 11 7 pm, 124 Hayes-Healy 
NV A Pairings 
All matches musl be played and reported lo lhe 
NVA Office by TODAY 
MEN'S OPEN TENNIS NO. 1 Coleman (4645) v. Mischke (4521) 
K. O'Brien (1692) v. B. McGowan (1069) Dahl (8944) v. J. Bosco 
MEN'S OPEN TENNIS NO. 2 Huebl (3248) v. Keller (61 05) Harman (1082) v. Soergal (1575) Knipe (8917) v. Goulet (277· 7563) Fay (1 069) v. Leyes (1082) 
P. Serrano-bye 
MIXED DOUBLES-THIRD ROUND 
Martin-Morrow (6840) v. Moore-O'Bryan (7870) Callis-O'Grady (1288) v. Clifford-Locke (8171) Cooke-Schnell (3316) v Gro1ean-Molinsky (1248) Para•so-Dougherty (1271) v. Waii-Hagemen (1195) Sobzak·Delapena (1639) v. Szatkowski-Demello (8852) Cleveland-Gailius (4514) v. O'Bnen-Aimelda (1692) Bond-Demello (1 027) v. Runger-Schm1d ( 1432) 
WOMEN'S TENNIS SINGLES-SECOND ROUN 
Alme1da (6722) v. V. Demello (1326) Gordon (6928) v. L. Demello (1348) lmmonen (3091) v. Kohlhaas (6834) Coin (6803) v. AOZIC (6727) McG1nn1s-bye 
MEN'S NOVICE SINGLES-SECOND ROUN 
Lukas1ak (8272) v. Kennaugh (4627) Taneff (1129) v. Polasek (8102) Healy (4625) v. Gardiner (8646) Horvath (1392) v. Clifford (8171) Kelly (1520) v. Real (3378) Bauman (3546) v. Lusser (8989) Pico-bye 
GRAD/FAC SINGLES 
K. Wolberg (277· 7152) v. Hoffman (239-7666) Lyons (239-6284) v. D. Wolberg (272-7152) Schubert (2754) v. Sieve 0 (232-9140) 
Interest meeting for Program in Global Community 
udy program in Cuernavaca, Mexico Operated by Augsburg College Spring Semester 
Tuesday, Oct.11··7 pm, Centerfor Social Concerns 


Say 'auf wiedersehn' to dull Wednesday night meals and enjoy Marriott's all-you· can-eat Octoberfest Buffet. You'll delight to all the exciting "old country" cooking like smoked pork loin with apple stuffing, hot German slaw, steamship round, bratwurst with horseradish, and 
many, many more entrees. 
For dessert, 
there's mouth-
Outward Bound Is a shot of high adventure In the wilderness. And a lot more. It's a trip thalli show you what you'rr-made of. 
You can dlscov~r you can do alma:!.'! anythln~you want-tryou try. 
Our 3-wrek r-xperlencr-In sell­confidence surr-Isn't easy. But It mightjust last you the rest ofyour 
lift'. 
Your flnt challenee: aeod for fulllnformatJon. 
Nnmt 
Strctt 
cuy Stau• Zip 
S1:"1100l 
Phonr 
Chtrk tht roursta that tnttu•st you 
Canutlnjl, -Dt-srrt tXjH'dlllon&-. 
Whllr watu Wlldrrnr<~'l 
rarunM -ba1·kpark1nR, 
~.lllltng _ Mountatnt'tnng 
Outward Bound, Dept, CO, 
384FJ.Ic:IPolntRd. 
are.nwtch, CT OU30 
phc:)nt toll trw (800)24USZJ 
No t'XJWr1rnrf' nt'cessaru. Oulu.•ard Bouud admits sludf'nl.t qf anw at'x ract'. rotor and narronal or rrhnlc 
~~~7~!~~::a~; ~;C,~flf OfTIIlnlzatlon
1 
,j~-el~IIO~G-\ 
• , Outward Bound' 
~ Thr COUI'M' that never ~nd" 
watering apple strudel, German chocolate cake, gingerbread with honey, and the list of Octoberfest delights goes 
•on and on. Of course, we'll be serving your favorite cocktails along with imported light and dark beer, and you'll be entertained by a strolling m1,1sician. The Marriott Octoberfest Buffet is every Wednesday from 5 p.m. until lO p.m. in the Looking Glass Restaurant. Adults $8.95 and children under 12, $4.95. Reservations are appreciated. 
(2 19) 234-2000 

Save $1.00 on each adult price of Marriott's SOUTH BEND .,\\Orriott ~~~ru~~!!St 
HOTEL Offl'r I'Xpirl's Octobl'r 26, l98:J. OnE' coupon pl'r table only. 

l_ 


']I['~t:llcat~----------------------------------------T_u_e_sd_a_r_,_o_c_to_b_e_r_l_l_,_l_9_8_3___
P_ag_e___ll 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Qura ~. A~1m£ 
Rfi5ff.GT PUA5£... W£ fVM A 
MIP UF€ CRI515 C-otN& Cl.J 
RIGHT NW lfJ lt\IUYS ~... 

Fate 
VELL, 5fiADENfS, I YAM P(OFESSOR SfiiSUfltSH I<AHIISCJ.4. I 'IOIAK I(A(HfK OF MEfKIIIINICOL EH~INE­

Mellish 
GOOD EVENING-IN ALAN~MARK DWSION THE U.~. (.ONG~fSS VOTED AND THE PRESIDENT AmovED ~N IMNE DIATf !>ISMANTLING If All 1.\. • IICLEA~ WtAPON~.


ACROSS 
1 Mooch 6 Curtail 10 Government 
agent 14 Bay window 15 Nevada 
mecca 16 Presage 17 Song words 20 Gnaws 21 Mesh 22 Clumsy 23 Dread 25 Attltudi­
nize 27 Wine 30 Separates 
by selec· lion 34 Song words 

The Daily Crossword 
3 Try to lose 
Monday's Solution weight 

4 Escapes 5 Slippery­6 City on the 
Moselle 7 Tear 8-and outs 9 Bon­
10 Certain· 
steaks 11 Grimace 12 Take­
(use the 
pool) 13 Cozy home 18 Maternally 
10/11/83 related 

36 Alphabet 53 Hymenop­
sequence teron 37 Suit to -54 Noted 38 WWII Italian 
Greek family underground 58 Song words 39 House 62 Concerning animals 63 Place for 40 Vessel: coins abbr. 64 Deplete 41 Oslo, 65 Mamie's formerly maiden 45 Clayware name fragment 66 Church 47 Of eques-seats 
trians 67 Chits 48 Docile 49 Capacity DOWN 
measure 1 Arrive 50 Lend -2 Plane (listen) surface 
19 Catalogues 24 Lamprey or moray 25 Ode and sonnet 26 Hockey 
great 27 Brooch 28 Bingo's 
relative 29 Turn aside 30 Sedate 31 Auguries 32 Loosen 33 That is­35-Haute 39 Ornate 
garden 41 Map 42 Dress edge 43 Robber 44 Charged 
atom 46 Wagered 49 Annoying 
Insects 50 Tart 51 Taboo 52 Light 
color 53 Toot 55 Usea 
stiletto 56 Tease 57 Ages and 
ages 59 Uraeus 60 -de France 61 Strange 
Campus 
•3:30 p.m.-Seminar, "Mechanics ofBimodular Composite Materials and Structures; Analyses and Experiments," Pro[ Charles W. Bert, 120 Cushing 
Jiall 
•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs Illinois, Courtney Courts 

•4 
p.m. -Founder's Day Scavenger Hunt, Library Green, SMC 

•4: 
15 p.m. -Lecture, "The Cultural Revival in the Arab East: 1850-1914," Dr. Khairieh Kamieh, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Tennis, SMC vs Univ. Of Illinois, Chicago Circle, Angela Outdoor Tennis Courts 

•4:30 
p.m.-Biology Seminar, "The Ecology of Chalk Downland," Dr. Barbara Stratford, 278 Gal­vin Life Sciences 

•6 
p.m. -Film, "The Last Epidemic," LaFortune Little Theatre, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free 

•6:30 
p.m. -St. Mary's Marketing Club Meeting, "Women in Banking," Terry Ashoff Warning, 304 Haggar College Center 

•7 
p.m. -Arts and Letters Business Society Meeting, 124 Hayes Healy 

•7 
p.m. -Founders Day Slide Show, HCC Cameleon Room 

•7 
p.m.-Italian Club Meeting, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting, for all AED and/or Pre Profes· sional Society members interested in volunteer ac­tivities and experiments for South Bend High School science students, 123 NSH 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Hair," LaFortune Ball­room, Sponsored by Undergraduate Club 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Irish Antique Silver," Dr. Brendan O'Riordain, Annen berg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Film, "The Refusal: The Life and Death of Franz jargerstatter," 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Our Next Century on Earth and ln Space," Dr. Gerard K. O'Neill, Library Auditorium 

•8 
and 10 p.m. -Founder's Day Suprlse Double Feature, HCC 

•9 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Killing Us Softly: Advertis­ing's Image of Women," Sponsored by Women's Caucus, Center for Social Concerns Auditorium 


Far Side· 
Common medieval nightmare 


Y£5, 11XlAY OOR CA5Ull-1Y 
Of nM£. JIY.JT TVRNW... UH... HOW OW AGAIN ? 
51X. I 

FURTHER, All MILITARY 5PEHI>ING WllL CEASE As 0f MIDNIGHr TUI\ EvtHING ... 



CfJME NOW I YOU( ygu SINK TO VOI.I(S'fUfl. ANY6N[! PLEASE, ANYONe 
~~,~~ot'r 
!?liN OfF CIJPIES OF
\ 

AND TI!Ar MONfV WILL BE APfRO­PRIIITfD To THE COUNI«IfS Of fN~ 
THIRD WOtLD. 

WHICH MEANS, OF C()IJRS£, 7HAT He Htr PUBa?:TY A801JT F/Vf­Y£AR5 Pf:JO ANP t.eiER KMf.W IT. 
JUST lrM01N€ 
MY S\/Rf'Rl~. 
Photius 
DH 4DOD .' Ill£ HEAt. II HII/1/D·IAP. WE H£11/C Jr!t LOOK, LOOK., DIS IS 4000, 
Gooo, Goool! 
'.-~ 

Dave & Dave 
AtTUALL~,t'M JUST KIDDING. RIOTS CoNnNUED IN MANILA AS SIX PfO"f WERI: 'YNNEb DoNN IN ... 
HAiR CHAUTAUQUA 
Presents
Come On ·N· 


HAIR HAIR
Give It a Try 
The Fall Festival Variety Show Sign-up 
Tuesday, Oct. II 
All interested acts are needed to sign•UP'before October 
11 
7:00, 9:00, 11 :00
with either Mary Hronscek (3352) or Curt Shim (1527) The show will be November 1 Prizes will be awarded for the 
$1
best acts. 

r--------~--~-~­
Sports 
Tuesday, October 11, 1983-page 12 

Soccer team wins two but loses in Milwaukee tournament finals 
starting players had already left the thers ofWisconsin-Milwaukee.
By PHIL WOLF 
game. Things initially looked good for
Sports Writer 
Three Notre Dame players scored the Irish, as Pat Szanto gunned home 
The Notre Dame soccer team was goals in the second period: Tom a free kick inside the penalty box to busy this past weekend, playing McFarland scored his first goal ofthe put his team on the scoreboard first. three games in as many days. year, Steve Ryan got his third, and ~ The Panthers, however, tied the 
lbe Irish kicked off the weekend Bill Beasley chalked up his fifth of game with six minutes remaining in last Friday night at Cartier Field by the season. Eric Watkins was the first half, as they intercepted a trouncing a relatively weak team credited with the assist on Beasley's pass from Chris Tdk intended for from Findlay, 6-0. goal. goalkeeper Steranka. lbe game was no contest from the Three Irish goalkeepers played in The score remained fixed through first whistle, as the Irish constantly the game, although there was little the rest of regulation time; and one kept control of the ball in the Oilers' for them to do but watch the action overtime period also failed to territory. Notre Dame executed at the Findlay goal. Starter Mark produce a winner. hundreds of perfect passes and had Steranka and back-ups Hugh Breslin Then with only one minute left in several good offensive drives, while and Carl Gebo shared the shutout as the second overtime period, the th<: Findlay players had trouble the Oilers barely crossed midfield, Panthers got a shot past Steranka to completing a single pass. much less took a shot. win their own tournament. Eighteen minutes into the game, Meanwhile, Notre Dame drilled Hunter attributes the loss to er­forward Pat Szanto took a pass from 30 shots at their opponents' goal. rors in execution. Chris Telk on the left side ofthe goal The competition was a little bit "We made some critical mistakes and shot it past th<: Oiler goalkeeper. stiffer on Saturday when Notre on defense," he said. "That's what Five minutes latt:r, Telk set up for­Dame met St. John's (Minn.) at the cost us. We also missed four real ward Ri<:h tlenlcgen, who headed Panther Tournament in Milwaukee. good chances to score. 
the ball into the left side of the net. "Ibe Irish emerged from that game "The sign of a good team is the lkrdegen concluded the first half with their eleventh shutout victory ability to punish you when you make scoring ~-\6 seconds before the ofthe year, 2-0. a critical mistake," Hunter says. 
halftinw whistle. Forward Rob llerdegt·n and fellow-captain Ken "That's what we do to most of our Snyd<:r set up the play with a high llarkenrider scored the goals in opponents." 
<:ross from the right side of the field. what Irish Head Coach Rich Hunter Things didn't work out that way Again, llerdegen's forehead greeted called "a tough game." for the Irish last Sunday, but Hunter the ball on the kft of tht· goal and "We did pretty well," Hunter said. feels that the team is ready to 
rammed it home. "We controlled the whole game." "bounce back pretty quickly." The second half also belonged to Sunday's opponent was the 
see TOURNEY, page 8
the Irish, although most of their tournament's host team, the Pan-
Irish lack desire 
Bowling Green wins ND Invite 
ByDAVIDROOP The problems this Notre Dame ter. (Last) week we had a workout .\ports Writer team seemed to have last Friday did 
see INVITE, page 8 
not lie with its leadership. Cannon, 

After an enthusiastic Bowling despite nursing a sore ankle that it Green cross country team won last was thought would make him in­Friday's Notre Dame Invitational, capable of running his usual race, Make major contributions one of the captains suggested that showed his mental toughness by the !<:am be photographed with the seeming to forget about the injury Golden Dome shining behind the once he got into the heat ofcompeti­
Perrino, Doerger crack lineup 
team. tion. 
By THERON ROBERTS Iiams has been moved trom strong our whole line has done a good job
A somewhat depressed Notre Unlike lao;t week, however, the Sports Writer tackle to quick tackle. against."
Dame fan remarked, "You guys supporting cast did not run up to "We've tried to put the best per­Tom Doergcr's name seems to
ought to. Think of the symbolio;m -par, with only one exception. 
There is nary a Fighting Irish fan son in his best position," says of­surface whenever a replacement isthat will be the second time today Ralph Caron and Ed)uba, runners 
who hasn't noticed freshman quar­fensive line coach jim Higgins, as he needed in the offensive line due to
that you left Notre Dame behind that arc usually capable of staying you." with Cannon and Dillon, finished terback Steve Beuerlein's entry into explains the reason for the changes. an injury. He is now filling in for 
the starting lineup. Perrino has surfaced as the best injured quick guard Tim Scannell. 
In cross country it seems that their last home cross country races desire and determination tend to in 12th and 28th places, respective­Maybe a little less known is the man to fill in during Shiner's ab­Doerger started out his career un­fact that two other relatively new sence, seeing action in the second der the Golden Dome at the tackle
outshine greater talent. ly. 
faces have also drawn starting as­half at Miami, and has since done a position. After that, he had beenOn Friday September 30, a hungry The overall poor team effort of signments in the Colorado and fine job starting in each of t he past slated ao; the substitute for either
Notre Dame team upset an extreme­Notre Dame perplexed Caron, who South Carolina games. two games. center Mike Kelley or Scannell.
ly talented and favored Marquette had been somewhat psyched up for 
team, 42-47, to win National Sophomores Mike Perrino and "I see my role as being a replace­
the the race. been ment for Mike (Shiner)," says the 6­
Catholic Meet. "The team just didn't con­Tom Doerger have making major contributionson the offensive 5, 271-pound Illinois native. "I
Last Friday, a more 'inspired centrate," said Caron. "We just let line during the last two weeks at the planned to contribute a lot as a soph­
Bowling Green squad handed the things slip. If everyone had run the strong tackle and quick guard spots. omore, so I don't feel surprised that I
more talented Notre Dame contin­same times as last week, we would Everyone knows that the Notre am getting the chance, but I am real­
gent its first loss of the season, win­have won by a big margin. 
ning 61-1-77, amongst a field of "I think this loss will help us, give Dame offensive line packs a wealth ly happy to be starting. us a humility," oftalent. The interesting thing about "It's been a challenge, as well as a
thirteen teams. little continued this talent is that it is so young -thrill," continues Perrino. "I think
Eao;tern Michigan finished third Caron. "I wish we would have won, only one starter graduates at the end the toughest part about going out
with 92 points to round out the top hut we may have learned a valuable 
ofthe season. · there is the preparation you have to
of tht· field. lesson today. 
do during the week."
Despite the Notre Dame loss, the "Now Ed (Juba), Jim Tyler, Mike Perrino came to Notre Dame in

meet itself was exceptional. Collins, and myself know that we've Head Coach Gerry Faust's second
Ct·ntral Mit:higan's)dfi>renth ran got to he mentally tough, running sweeping year ofgetting many ofthe
away from the 90-man pack, leading from the start with everything we've top college prospects out of high
hy ahout •;o yards at the three-mile­got," said Caron. 
TomDoerger
school.

mark. lie then went on 10 finish in The talented Juha, who ran 24:51 He was named to the
24:03, some eight seconds ahead of in the National Catholic Meet, was However, Ron Plantz, another
Adidao;/Scholastic Coach prep All­

Eao;tt·rn Michigan's Eric Smith, I 7 seconds 9ffthat pace Friday, run­sophomore, has emerged as Kelley'sAmerica team, ao; well as being
whost· strong kick at the end nearly ning the final two miles in 10:19. backup, and Doergcr has been
named to several Illinois all-state

caught Drenth. Friday's best effort probably working on hoth the strong and 
teams. He primarily played

Notre Damt·'s co-captains Andy hclongcd to junior Bill Courtney, quick guard positions.defensive end in high school, but
Dillon and Tim Cannon finished who ran 20 seconds faster in the "Tom has the mental and physical
figured to be utilized as an offensive

third and fourth, with Cannon run­Invite than he did in National Cath­to do well both
agility needed atlineman in the college ranks.

ning ahout five yards hehind the olic. positions," says Higgins, who works
"I have put on about fifty pounds

senior Dillon. The two crossed the Courtney's time of 25:10 claimed with the centers and guards. "With
since football season senior year,"

thrcc-mik-mark in 14:39, hefore for him Notre Dame fifth spot, and the injuries that we have ex­pushed Mike Collins out of the top Mike Perrino Perrino says. "I guess you could say
finishing in 24:25.7 and 24:27, perienced, Tom is a good replace­
that was the big adjustment between

respectively. five for the first time this season. ment at either guard slot.
However, the depth of that line 
high school and college."

An extremely fast start exhausted Courtney explained his success "He's like having two players in
has been given the test over the past 
"Mike is a strong, improving foot­

the early leaders. Dillon and Cannon afterward. one."
couple of weeks due to injuries to 
ball player, but he still needs a Iitle

hoth ran fine races, cnahling them to "Cross country racing is a process The 6-5, 272-pound Docrger
quick guard Tim Scannell and quick 
bit more playing time to be as good

surge past many of these early that continues throughout the year. went to LaSalle High in Cincinnati,
tackle Mike Shiner. 
as he can be," says Head Offensive

leaders and jump from sixth and The practice sessions have gotten 
Along with the insertion of Per­
Line Coach Carl Selmer. "He has see YOUTH, page 10

seventh places to third and fourth. crisper, which enables us to go fas­
rino and Doerger, junior Larry Wil­
played well against the teams that 








