• • .SLF-page 10 
Organizations seek bilateral freeze 
By PAUL McGINN Bilateral freeze, said that the gather­1VewsStajJ ing of signatures would continue in both dining halls today to increase 
four campus organizations are student exposure to the freeze and sponsoring a referendum to freeze to insure the 1 5 percent level. the deployment, testing, and When questioned about the production of nuclear weapons in specific referrals to the United States the United States and the Soviet Uni­and the Soviet Union, O'Brien said, on. "We chose not to address the others 
A petition to establish a Mar. 1 (those nations now producing referendum was circulated by the nuclear weapons, i.e. People's Community for the International Republic of China, france. Great Lay Apostolate, Pax Christi, Circle-!( Britain, and India) because we (a volunteer group of college stu­wanted to begin with the super­dents affiliated with Kiwanis Inter­powers first. national). and Young Democrats "Arms control must be as broad­yesterday in the North and South based as possible; a unilateral freeze Dining Halls. would have been a good step. but it 
Nearly 1 :300 undergraduates was not broad-based enough." signed the petition: "To improve na­Considering that Pax Christi and tional ahd international security, CILA had t1rst supported the ill-fated should the United States and the unilateral freeze, O'Brien said that Soviet Union adopt an immediate, "the bilateral freeze does not retlect 
J 

bilateral. mutually verit1able freeze the failure of the unilateral freeze: it junior Observer photographer Larr)• Petras .·I on all further testing, production, shows a willingness to work for arms used a secret of the trade, and the assistance ofa and deployment of nuclear Bic lighter. to make a long distance dedication to
See FREEZE, page 7 
weapons, and of missiles and new aircraft designed primarily to deliver nuclear weapons?" 
If passed, the referendum would 
'Red gulf of blood' 
become part of. oftlcial Universiy policy as have the Campbell's and Nestle's products boycotts. 


Khadafy vows attack if U.S. enters gulf 
Though petitioners received ·southern Mediterranean. that the l ·.s. Navy, operating north of parently aimed at Sudan.
signatures from 15 percent of the (AP)-Libyan leader Col. Moam· mar Khadat)· vowed yesterday to President Reagan has said there the Gulf of Sidra, "t()rms a challenge Reagan said the radar surveillance
student body -the amount needed to place such a referendum ·on a turn the GulfofSidra into a "red gulf are no plans to involve ll.S. forces in to .the Libyan nation. The Libvan planes were in the area on a training campus-wide ballot Michael of blood" if the U.S. aircraft· carrier the region if Libya clashes with people won't stand and watch idiv if exercise. The Egyptian foreign Min­O'Brien, coordinator of the group, Nimitz and its battle group dare t~ Sudan, its U.S.-backed neighbor, but pushed too far." · istry said current militarv activities that American troops have a right to "We will not permit America or in Egypt were "normal." .
unofficially titled Coalition for a re-enter the disputed bay in the 
defend themselves if fired upon. any foreign state to enter the Gulfof Sale of the Airborne Warning and 
Two U.S. jet tlghters conducting Sidra or any other part of Libvan Control System planes to Saudi 
war games from the Nimitz shot waters, and this includes the So vi .t et Arabia several years ago caused a 
down a pair of Libyan planes after t;nion, to which were are linked bv a storm of protest in Israel, but Israeli 
being fired on over the gulf in relationship of friendship," Khad~t'y oftkials had no immediate comment 1 
August 1981, and the Nimitz and its said. on the latest deployment. 
battle group just completed another "The Libyan people are ready to The Pentagon sources. who 
Gary Hart announces 

1984 presidential bid 
set of maneuvers there. tight to defend their land, their declined to be identitkd, said 

"Entering Sidra means an invasion water and skies," he said. Some of Khadafy had moved air units to bases DENVER (AP) -Sen. Gary Hart First elected to the Senate in of Libya. The Libyan people want to the waters claimed by Libva are I 00 in Chad, the adjacent countrv to the announced his longshot campaign 1974, the tall, craggy-faced Hart has live as free people and won't accept miles from shore. Th.e t:nited States south where Libya has been s~pport­
for the Democratic presidential been building a political organiza­
toreign occupation. The Gulf of recognizes a three-mile limit. ing one faction in a civil war. 
nomination yesterday, declaring tion and raising money since last 

Sidra will turn into a red gulf of Pentagon sources in Washington Those units appear to threaten that while the country faces tough summer, imitating the campaign 
blood if anyone tries to sail through said the l 'nited States has sent Sudan, Chad's eastern neighbor, the 
economic choices, "we can be styles of both McGovern and former 

it by force," Khadafy told his Parlia­A WACS planes to Egypt and moved Pentagon sources said, and Egypttender-hearted if we are also tough­President Carter. 
ment in the Libyan capital ofTripoli. the Nimitz and its battle group 100 deployed air t()rce units to bases in minded." Aides to Hart say he has raised . In an address carried by Libya's of­miles off Egypt's northwest coast to southern Egypt to be ready to coun­
Hart, who engineered George over $225.000, including SS,OOO in 
tlcial JANA news agency, he warned counter a l.ibvan aircraft buildup ap-ter any Libyan move against Sudan. 
McGovern's campaign for the each of ·20 states, making him 

Democratic presidential nomina­eligible for matching federal funds. tion in 1972, is at age 45 the young­Both Mondale and Hart have said est of the likely 1984 contenders. they will accept no political con­Boss talks, FBI hears 
In a speech from the steps of the tributions from special interest Colorado state house, Hart said, "We groups like labor unions or corpora­now face a stark choice between na­tions, in the past a major source of 


Cleveland mobfamily in ruins 
tional renewal or national decline." campaign funding. 
Gallo. always careful to use coded references in his
CLEVELAND ( AP) -It was Dec. 16, I ')HO, and Joey
"The next president must shape In the speech tormally announc­telephone conversations in case of a wiretap, apparent­

ing his run f(H the White House. Hart Gallo, who had ambitions to lead Cleveland's l.a Cosa
domestic policies that actually achieve progress instead of made no proposab tor quick solu· Nostra "family," was breaking one of organization's tv never thought the FBI might bug his oftke. As he explained the family's problems to a relative of
perpetuating programs merely be­tions to the nation's 10.2 percent un· most important rules. 
a former labor leader, Gallo mentioned reputed under­

employment or high interest rates. He was talking to someone outside of the familYcause there is a pressure group for boss Angelo "Big Ange" Lonardo by name. FBI agents at
them," he said. Instead, he called for long-term about his plans to revitalize the mob. a nearby surveillance site were getting it all on tape.
With his wife. Lee. at his side, Hart economic solutions. including And the FBI was listening. spoke to about 500 cheering sup­retraining of the jobless, retooling Sitting in his oft1ce. ·t5-year old Joseph "Joev" Gallo joe Triscaro. ident.ified by the FBI as the owner of a described in detail the problems plaguing the familY, 
trucking company. was complaining to Gallo that

porters. Facing the Rocky .\1ountains factories and negotiating wide-open one ofthe country's oldest bastions oforganized crime. 
Lonardo had rejected his choice for president of a

visible in the distance. the senator trade policies with LS. allies. The organization is now in ruins. crushed bv a six-Teamsters local.
said he believes it i., time t()r aWes­President Reagan, Hart said. 

According to the tapes, which were played in federaltern candidate to have a serious shot "ofters a recovery which will enrich vear joint inves­court, (;allo told Triscaro, "Angelo's a beautiful guyat the \X:hite House. the wealthY, make a portiun of us a tigation by really the kind of guy we needed in this town a long

Hart is the second Democrat after little better oft·. and do nothing at all federal and local time ago."
· Sen. Alan Cranston of Calit<)rnia to t<H the tens of millions ofour people law ent()rcement 
"He's probably one of the most respected guys in the

to,·mallv announce hi~ presidential who are the worst otf." agencies. 
FCJCUS 
whole l'nited States," Gallo said of the 72-year-oldcampaign. In the Senate. Hart has steered a The Cleveland Lonardo, an old-time Math hand who began his criminal

former \'ice President Walter F. centrist course. Aides sa~· he has t:unih·'s boss. two \tondale is to announce his can­sought to model himself after the reputed captains and three other close associates were 
career during Prohibition while trying to elude Eliot 

:-.less, then sakty direct<'r in Cleveland. whose presidential campaign Hart ming from the bombing death ofa rival mobster. Last month's convictions. the second phase of what
didacy .\tonday, and other un­pragmatism of John f. Kennedy, in convicted last summer on racketeering charges stem­
declared contenders include Sens. Last month, the family's underbos~. and two more 
the FBI called its most sweeping victory against a Mat1a

John (jlenn ofOhio, Ernest Hollings worked as a volunteer in 1960. captains were conYicted on federal charges of running a
ofSouth Carolina and Oale Bumpers He supports the nuclear freeze 
See FOCUS, page 8

ofArkansas. movement. drug ring. 
' 

...........~ ·' ..-.:. ..........,. ,.,. .......·...............~ ~......___,_,,.,. -----~-... ~_,•.-,,jt ~· .•. ,.:.t.··:·~~ ;.;;;;..;:r-~:{,:~1;~~--~iiiii: 






NewsBrie!J 
By The Obserz•er and The Associated Press 
A change machine was reportedly stolen from Stan­ford Hall's gameroom early Monday morning. According to hall president john Greer, the machine was somehow removed from the dorm between 3:30 a.m. and 8:30 a.m.. The machine had been anchored to the wall by a number of large bolts. Because the machine is often down for repairs, the theft was not immediately noticed. The theives made off with $200. "The way the machine is set up,"said Greer, "there's always $200 in it, either all bills or all coins;or both." The machine was rented from Connally Amusement Company of Niles. Notre Dame Security is conducting an investiga­tion but would not comment on the case. -The Obseruer 
The Hunger Project is sponsoringa~ En­
ding Hunger Briefing tomorrow from 1 to 5:30p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education. The briefing will attempt to give interested students accurate information about hunger so tlley then can take effective action to end the problem. Topics to be discussed include how hunger is measured, countries that have ended hunger as a basic issue, what it will cost to end hunger worldwide, and what the student can do to help. Frank Yurasek, a Notre Dame alumnus, will lead the briefing. There is no charge, but donations will be accepted. 
-The Obseroer 
Graduate housing applications are now available in the Office of Student Residences, 315 Administration Building. A gradate housing lottery for available spaces will be held Friday, May 6, 1983. All applications received before May 6 will be eligible. ­The Obseroer · 
The annual Alumnae Phon-a-thon at 
Saint Mary's is being organized. The event, a primary source of alumnae contributions to the College, is scheduled for Mar. 7-I 0, 
6:30 to 11 p.m. Students may volunteer 30 minutes of their time in exchange for one free long distance phone call. A pizza party is also· scheduled for volunteers. The phon-a-thon is being organized by the Saint Mary's Development Department. Students interested in help­ing at the phon-a-thon should contact Michele Morin at 284-S 1 SS. 
-The Obseruer 
A sock hop is being sponsored by the McCandless RA's tonight in Angela Athletic Facility from 8:50 to I :50. The RA's are promoting social activities on the Saint Mary's campus. The Saint Mary's administration often receives the reputation ofdiscouraging social activities on campus; however. the RA's feel that it is merely a lack ofeffort on the students' part. The dance is casual and is free, so grab your sneakers and the shuttle and find out what Saint Mary's has to offer. -The Ohseruer 

Soviet scientists have developed a drug that helps alcoholics conquer their thirst, the trade uni<_m newspaper Trud reported yesterday. The drug, called lnmekarh bv scientists at the pharmacology institute of the Soviet Academy ofSciences, has been clinically tested with good results and could be ready for general use by next year, the report said. It is ''neither sweet nor hitter," is taken five times a day fi>r up to 50 dap, takes away the alcoholic's craving, and has no negative side effects, Yuri V. Hurovoy of the pharmacol­ogy institute said. Alcoholism is an acute social problem in the Soviet Union. -AP 
Now that Deirdre Barlow and lover Mike 
Baldwin are going off for a tryst, I"" million fans of Britain's longest­running soap opera, "Coronation Street," can breathe easy. The television serial has been runn;ng for two years, but viewers were especially on tenterhooks for Monday's episode. Deirdre and Mike. her factory boss, had reached a crucial point in their romance. But the episode was blacked out by several hundred electricians who called a union meeting just as the show was about to he broadcast. Viewers were nervously waiting to tlnd out ifonce-divorced Deirdre would walk out on her stick-in-the-mud second husband and go live with Mike. as he had been pleading. But Wednesdav night all was revealed: Deirdre agreed to Mike's proposal to go away with him while she makc:s up her mind whether to ~tick wirh him or go back to her husband. -,IP 
What does PresidentReagan do in washing-
ton' Teacher .Jo Ann Salem recentlv put the question to hc:r tlrst­grade students at R.E. Simpson school and got some surprising answers. "fie's the president and knows what hc:'s doing even if we don't." replied Stephen. Others: Benjamin: "He earns his monev lw helping Mrs. Reagan around the White !louse." Jennifer: "\\;he;1 there is a real had problem. he calls the police or gets into his airplane." Buddy: "fie helps to run World W.1r II and World War Ill." Billy: "He paints his White flouse when it geb yukky." Chris: "He <:an give you money hut not \Tf\ much." Louis: ··11e helps the tax gu), clean up the White House to keep it white." Alex: "lie worb and does paper work -not the wallpaper kind." Cindi: "I k hdps people IH· giving them his clothe-. and .,ruff" -.IP 

~artly cloudy and mild wday. llighs ill the i<m -+0 s. Pan!\-cloudy tonight. I O\\ sin tht· uppe-r 20's to low 50's. Parth sllllll) to'llorn•w Highs in :he llltd to upper 10's. -.ll' . 
Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 2 

Fighting the lottery scare 

February -the month of academic restlessness, aniticipation of spring vacations to Florida, and, of course, "the old housing lottery scare." 
But, this time the threat ofa lottery seems destined to materialize. According to Father Michael Heppen, director of student residences, unless 200 men and 75 women decide to move off campus next year, the Uni­versity will undoubtedly resort to a lottery. 
Contrast the situation now with that of a year ago when 200 less students had turned in room contracts to Student Residences, and the administration still came very close to holding a lottery. Considering that stu­dents have been forced to move offcampus before, with the last lottery held in 1972, maybe it is time to sit up and take notice. 
Compared with the housing situations of most uni­versities, Notre Dame stands alone. The trend and ac­cepted practice at the many large colleges and universities is to move off campus by one's junior or senior year. 
But Notre Dame is dif­ferent. Quite a few students 
TI[©~lllill~

genuinely desire to stay on 
campus. Unlike other problem. schools, Notre Dame is The obvious solution

ii{©~Jl®lm®

situated outside of the cen­would be to accept less ter of town; the University incoming freshmen. Despite was designed to be isolated. the initial transitional So any attraction to the problems of a stricter limit excitement of city life is vir­on enrollment, the rewards tually nil here. would be immense. Bigger is 
Despite HPC President not always better, especially Mike McAuliffe's observa­when the quality of student tion that ••it's the best time living is at stake. Decreased to get choice appartments," enrollment would be uni­the situation is not so rosy. versally benetkial -from The only apartment options the dining halls to the 
Notre Dame Appart­dorms. ments, Campus View, and As for now, Student 
Turtle Creek -arc either 
filled to capacity or located in crimc:-ridden neighbor­
hoods. 
In general, oft~campus living posc:s numerous innate problems f(>r tht· ~tudent, not the least of which is the highly publicized crime situation. Student Body Presi­dent Lloyd Burke has said that rc:cent reports show 0-C crime to be decreasing -int<mnation which he plans to present at Thursday's open house on off-campus op­portunities. Nevertheless. 0-C conditions can never hope: to compc:te with the safety of<)ll-campus housing. 
The alternatives to a lottery must he explored logical­ly and openly. One of Burke's counterproposals is to build two new male dorms next year. lie also suggested the possibility of using social space areas in the dorms, such as the study lounges in (;race and Hanner. llep­pen. however, downplayed the likc:lihood 6f the latter. noting that it would be ··unfair to people in the towers." 
Yet, despite the: alternatives suggested, both lleppen 

and l:lurke appear to be: overlooking the 
The Observer 
lllank Wall> 
IJe...;if.!.ll Fdilor....... Dt.·1rdn: \1 .\1urphy /JeSi)-:11 ..1ssistant .. l>a\'t' 'Tht:rmo (,od~'( 
R<Jhin.o,on 
J')•peset/ers. Hc:ggie & Toni 'Fiet.·rlnJ,t' nurhertord \eu•s l!'ditor ..... Dan· 'Ill \1om and Dad' 
~arphit.· 
Cofn· /:'rlilor,. . . ( :arol 'l.ondon Calling' 
<.amp. 
l;eatures l.tt}'OIII ~arah 'I want w go to 
hrt·akta~( llamilton /:'ditonals l.a)•oul..,. T1111 '\(.·d~ .\port., (.ofn' fditor.. \like ·.lad::-.on' Ric..: 
'-..lrdi 
\1) /hi)' l:'tlitor.... 1'1111 Pt·uer~ \.11<.' /Jar Ftlilor.. \lot Bnu.T Pl.wlo,f.!,rtlf1ht•r ... l.arn Pc:tra~ (,ue.•;t Appearances. The..: (,hosl and \1rs. 
\luir. P.S Clay t·t.al.. A lilt It· tt'ddy hc..-ar. Ph01 i u~. an ~lflec[Jonatl' I Ltrh~. Party-line Pudgl·. Bauhk~ from till" !'<Iouth, Ar· rowhcad Oakky & Anmt· Oakk'y 
II'..; raining, 
It's pouring. 
HI' lut'e li(e is IJorinp, me lo /ears, 
:tjler a/llht•.,·e 1'£'ttrs. 
The Observer 1USPS ''"~ 'l20i " 
Pl·biiSht•(J M()fl(.~dY thtOUfjh Ftidciy rl!lU ~Jn ht,r11(· llu.llh.ill Saturr1c-~y,_, i'Xl epl lunnq exrt1n (lnc1 vrH .JIHJn p~·1111•h The Observer 1; pulJII-,~It':1 tJy. !tH' ~,!ur:Jenh ,.t r~~Jirt·· ~J..t·r1u rllr·J St~rr1t Mdr r ·, '...... 1 i,_:gt· Sur·',t np!riJtl~, ·ndy tJp put• h~1'-lt'r1 I.Ji" s.....J ~t·r YL'df tS1'J pt•f ,t->lflt~ .... t8f) tJy "''''"Y The Observer P U Bux u 
Nu!rt• [_1 1' 1 tt' illo11 Hlri 46•>')t1 The Observer '-· " "' · nt>•··• ·I The Associated Press A "'ll .Jrr• Iii oil 
sf'. l!•ii ld!"-!':i p.~;-,t.\ql ~~.11.1 dl NL'trt• 0d·r~~· lnclrdrl 146~~0 
root of the 




STANFORD 
summer 
•

sess1on 
Introductorv and advanced C\)urses, workshops and seminars in the visual arts, performing arts, earth sciences, t~ducation, engineering, the humanities, social sciences, sciences. and mathematics. 
Junc 20 through August l :)_ 

Jeff Harrington 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Friday 

problem. The housing problem basically boils down to a problem of overcrowding -an issue which plagues our daily existence on campus. The increasingly longer lines at the dining halls attest to the fact that the over­population problem is serious. Not even the library is immune to the curse of crowding -searching for a table becomes a greater chore than studying. 
Neither the proposal of additional dorms nor the reuse ofstudy lounges for housing purposes would con­front the essence of overpopulation. They act as tem­porary solutions by delaying the lottery issue, while failing to even partially al­leviate the dining hall 
Government has promised to "tlood the campus with as much information as pos­sible" concerning oft--campus opportunities, according to Burke. 
We are told to wait, watch t<>r developments and, most importantly, consider retracting our room con­tracts by March 50. 
So we wait ..as the threat continues to loom over us. Perhaps the situation hus deteriorated beyond hope for this year and the lottery is inevitable. Or maybe the housing lottery problem can be shoved oft· for an<)ther yc:ar -just one more year. But, the next time the threat will surface with greater force. 
For until the administration devises a long-term solu­tion to overpopulation on campus, it looks like the old housing lottery scare is here to stay. 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside column are the l'iews of their author and do not necessaril)' exfJress the 1•ie!l'.~ ofThe Observer or its editorial hoard. 
The Observer Friday, February 18, 1983-page 3 
Reagan's policies 


Official describes_ human rights 

By TIM VERCELLOTTI 
News Editor 
The promotion of democracy 
worldwide is an important element 
of the Reagan Administration's 
human rights policy, a State Depart­
ment ofi1cial said here last night_ 
"If you look around the world, democracies in general have the best human rights records. Com­munist countries do not," Theresa Tull said. 
Tull, director of the Bureau of 
Human Rights and Humanitarian Af­
fairs, addressed a small crowd at Car­
roll Hall at Saint Mary's. 
She noted that in the overall 
picture, human rights concerns are 
"inextricably bound to our foreign 
policy." 
She stressed that there is "a fun­
damental agreement among the 
American people and their 
representatives on the aims of 
human rights policies. Disagree­
ments, when they exist, are over the 
means offollowing such a policy." 
The Reagan Administraron prefers "private diplomatic dialogue," she said. "We believe that the results of this application will become evident over time." 
The dialogue is aimed not only at the alleviation of immediate rights violations, but also at the promotion of democracy in the long run, Tull explained. 
"When we react to specific 

Theresa Tull 
abuses, we provide protection for a day. When we help to establish a sys­tem of free elec;tions. we guarantee protection for life," she said. 
Tull echoed an administration 
stance tlrst unveilled in a Reagan 
speech to the British House ofCom­
mons last june. She explained that 
the Reagan Administration proposes 
to assist in the "gradual emergence 
of democratic systems," such as 
labor unions, a free Church, and an 
open judiciai system, ultimately 
resulting in free elections. 
Such elections "shift power from the ruler to the people," she said, ad­ding that "we must forcefully deny anyone to speak in the name of the people unless they've been chosen by the people." 
Tull noted that the American government will support opponents of totalitarian regimes only when there is evidence that the human rights situaton wll improve as a result. She singled out El Salvador. where the Reagan administration prefers the regime in power to the allegedly Soviet-backed leftist rebels. 
The llnited States will continue to 
support the present Salvadoran 
government, which is making 
progress in the area ofhuman rights, 
she said. 
Responding to questions from the 
audience, Tull denied the charge 
that the annual worldwide human 
rights report recently .released by 
the State Department was politically 
biased. "Absolutely not," she said. 
Tull called the protection of human rights "an ongong political struggle," but noted that substantial progress has been made in nations such as Brazil and Pakistan. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Saint Mary's History Department. 


Blood transfusions may prevent diabetes 
BOSTON (AP) -Researchers have discovered that ordinary blood transfusions will prevent juvenile diabetes in laboratory animals, and say it may someday provide a way of eliminating the disease in humans. 
The doctors found that a few 
transfusions early in life from a type 
of rat that never get juvenile 
diabetes will completely stop 
development of the disease in rats 
that have a genetic weakness for it. 
The researchers cautioned, however. that more research is necessary before doctors try this simple therapy to prevent diabetes in humans susceptible to juvenile diabetes. 
"We feel at the present time that we should not make the quantum leap from rat work to human work," said Dr. Aldo A. Rossini. "But this could be a plausible approach in the future." 
The researchers are not sure why the blood transfusions worked. 
The study was directed by Rossini 
at the University of Massachusetts 
Medical School. It was published in 
Friday's issue ofScience. 
Unlike the more common adult form of the disease, juvenile diabetes often strikes its victims in early adolescence. It destroys the ability to make insulin, a hormone necessary for the body to use and store sugar. 
By age 18, about one in every 300 or 400 children in the United States has the disease. It accounts for about 1 S percent of all diabetes and often runs in families. 
Life expectancy after diagnosis is about _40 years, and victims of juvenile diabetes often suffer heart attacks, kidney failure and eye damage despite daily insulin shots. 
Last week, Dr. George S. Eisen­barth and colleagues at the Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston reported work with a blood test that will reveal early signs of the disease several years before irreparable damage occurs. 

For dormrooms 

Senate tables cablevision proposal 
By SCOTT HARDEK 
StaffReporter 
A proposal by Lloyd Burke to 
bring cable television to the dorms 
was tabled last night at the monthly 
meeting of the Faculty Senate. The 
Senate did not take a stand for or 
against the proposal because of its 
vague and ambiguous nature. 
In the words of Professor Vaughn 
McKim, chairman of the Senate, 
"(.The Senate) ought not to take a 
stand until we know exactly what 
the students have in mind." McKim 
said he would welcome a more ex­
act proposal. 
The major thrust of the meeting concerned the Early Childhood Development Center, Inc., which asked the Senate to help with its financial problems. The facility, which is a school on the Saint Mary's campus for three-to six-year-old children ofNotre Dame-Saint Mary's faculty, staff, administration, stu­dents, or alumni, faces a 54,700 
deficit this year, and will not be able 
to meet its May payroll. 
The major reason for the facility's 
deficits is the reduction of Notre 
Dame's contribution to its operation 
by H,OOO. The decision to decrease 
the contribution was made this past 
summer by Provost Timothy 
O'Meara because he felt that the 
amount ofthe subsidy was excessive 
in light offaculty use. 
Originally, the facility was sub­sidized through a. fund of which Father Theodore Hesburgh. was a trustee. Since the elimination of the 
fund, part of which was used to help finance the new Saint Mary's librar-y, Notre Dame has had to make the contribution from University funds. 
Saint Mary's grants the school $13,000 annually in the form of in­kind services (the building, heating, maintenance, etc.). It offers credit programs to Saint Mary's swdents who work there. 
The Senate passed the proposal to recommend that the administration 



~ ~QID(jfl ~C(jUIQf'S' 
241 HAPPY HOUR 3-7 M·F ... $2 Pitchers 
$1.00
25¢ BEER 
DAIQUIRIS&
EVERY 
MARGARITAS
MON.&TUES. 
EVERY WED. PM 
7 ·10 
take steps to help the center meet its 
short-term deficits and that both 
parties meet to discuss long-range 
solutions to the school's tlnancial 
difficulties. 
The Senate recognizes the center as a fringe benet1t ofNotre Dame and feels that the service which the cen­ter provides the families outweighs the monetary value of the contribu­tion. A handout distributed at the meeting cited the 400 families that the center has helped as one of its 
further merits. 
Other topics discussed included Faculty Forums, the PACE report's recommendations on faculty com­pensation, and the first draft of a report on undergraduate admissions and t1nancial aid. 
The Senate unanimously voted the draft of an appreciative letter to james Frick, vice president ofpublic relations, alumni affairs, and development, who recently an­nounced his retirem-ent at the end of 
the year. 


--lk 
-.... 

75¢ KAMIKAZE PARTY THURS. PM 
START EARLY 
BEAT THE CLOCK 
at 50¢ at 7:00 & GO 
EVERY 
UP 10¢ EVERY HOUR 
FRI. & SAT. PM 
'TIL MIDNIGHT. 
HOUSE DRINKS 
COME EARLY!! 



DUDLEY ELIZABETH MOORE McGOVERN 
LOVESICI< 
DUDLEY MOORE· ELIZABETH r~cGCVERN 1r LOVESICK JOHN HUSTON anc ALEC GUINI~ESS Mus1c bv PHILIPPE SARDE • D~recr-r -: P~c:cw·~::,..,, GERRY FISHER·· Produced by CHARLES "OKUN •'v'1• ':'.<-r d'-c [.;.·~~:"'•: ::;, r~t-RSHALL BRICKMAN 
PG PARmAlGUIIIAIICISUGGEsnoo 

FORUMCINEMA. 
! Mile North of Notre Dame on U.S. :S 1 North Phon" 277-1 S22 IIWIN M&TIIIEES-ht 2 SHOWS SATURDAY & SUNDAY tiiO HOLIDAYS• 
r 
r 
fhe Obse:.:ver Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 4 

Four hundred tons ofsandstone boulders litter route 51 near Pittsburgb after crusbing three 

Former EPA official faces contempt charges 
WASIIIN(iTON (AI') -Rita .\1. mcnt Wednesday that he would not 
Lavelle, former head of the Environ­a~scrr cxccutivc privilt::gc ovcr 
mental Protection Agency·~ much­documents sought in the growing 
investigated hazardous waste number of congrcsssional investiga­
program, de/ !led a !louse subpoena tions of EPA. 
yesterday and was warned she may Deputy prcss sccrctary Larry 
be held in contempt if she continues Speakes ~aid Rcagan envisioncd tur­
to defy "the will of the Congress." ning document~ ovcr to thc Justice 
Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., chair­lkpartment for rcview of possiblc man of the Ilouse Energy and Com­wrongdoing, not to Congress. merce investigations subcommittee, "If there is any cvidcnce of said M.~. l.avdk -who was tired by wrongdoing, the body ro go to is not President Reagan last week -will the Congress, but tl:te Department of be given one more chance to Justice, which enforces the law." coopnale with his panel's investiga­Speakes said. "If the Departmcnt of tion into the $1 (, billion Justice chooses to go to the 
"sup, rfund" program. Congress, that is their choice." 
If she still refuses to appt·ar, he lie added, however, that the ad­said, she likely will be voted in con­ministration was serious about tempt. pursuing the investigation. 
"The patience of the committee is "I can assure you from thc top of wearing somewhat thin," said Din­thi~ administration that the idca is, gel!. "We will not tolerate acts we will not shield documcnts that which frustrate tht· will of the may contain allcgations ofwrongdo­Congress." ing or improper conduct, and the 
Meanwhile, the White !louse president has ordered from top to 
issued a qualifier to Reagan's state-bottom that therc be no coverup." 
Howard and McCandless present a special 

for Sophs and Frosh at the Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom Friday, Feb. 18th 9:30-1:30 $ D.J., Refreshments, & Door Prizes 1 


WITiiOUT 
AN 
ADVANCED DEGREE 
The Institute for ParalegalTrainmg 

235 S. 17th St Phlladelphta. PA 19103 (215) 732-8600 
Approved by the American Bar 
Association 
Operated by f'lu'a-l.egallnc. a ~nJJSY(vanta Corporation 
College seniors. Ifyou plan to get a job after graduation. why not consider a profession? 
• 
In 3 months, we prepare you for careers in law, management. finance. 

• 
Our8 intensive courses are nationally recognized for high aca­demic quality. 

• 
Over 90% ofour graduates secure jobs in their specialties. Over 5,000 graduates hold positions in law firms. banks and corporations in I I 0 cities. 

• 
We provide a substantial tuition refund if we cannot secure a job for you in the city ofyour choice. 


Guarantee your future. Learn how the Institute can help you advance in a career. Our representative will be on 
campus February 25, 1983. 
RSM 
o 
I would like to aTTange an inter­view at another time. Please call meat one ofthe phones noted. 

o 
Please send me information about the Institutefor Paralegal Training. 


Name -----------­Address ----------­City, State, Zip 
College---------­Graduation Date -------­
Present phone Permanent phone 
Arkansas prisons 

Brubaker subject describes reform 
By CECILIA LUCERO 
Staff Reporter 
"You can compromise ·on strategy, but never on principle," says Tom Murton, the prison rdor­mer whosc controversial approach to clean up thc Arkansas penal sys­tem in the late 1960s became the suhject of the movie Brubaker. 
Murton says this philosophy, which was the central theme of Brubaker, should apply beyond prison reform. 
Speaking to a capacity crowd last night at the Center for Social Con­cerns, Murton, <i2, discussed his per­sonal convictions towards prison reform and the sociological implica­tions cxpressed in Brubaker. 
Although portions of the movie were lktion, including Brubaker's clandestine investigation of Wakelleld State Prison, thcst.• did not deviate from the social issues, according to Murton. 

"Basically, the film deals with something unique in prison t1Ims. The contribution ofBrubaker is that it is the tirst one that deals with some of these (prison reform) issues from a warden's point of view." 
Murton, who served as technical director of the movic, criticized the opening scenes of Brubaker in which the warden invcstigates the prison undercover. In addition to unrealistically placing the character in a dangerous position, Murton says the warden deceives the people he has to reform. 
"Positive relationships arc huilt on some kind of respect or trust," he said. 
"My notion of running a prison is diametrically opposcd to the way prisons are run elsewhere. That is, all prisons are autocratic, dictatorial, quasi-fascist regimes. Not that the people running them are evil, but 

!!rlwaf/orz
'Iwith special guest 
RED RIDER 
Tomorrow, Feb. 19 8 PM Notre Dame A.C. C. 
All seats reserved: $11.50 & $10.50 
Tickets now available at A. C.C. Box office only. Tickets on sale Tuesday at A.C. C. Box Office, Sears (University Park Mall, Orchard mall, Pierre Moran Mall, & the Catalogue Store), Robertson's (South Bend & Concord Mall), St. Joe Bank (main branch), The Elkhart Truth J.R.'s (La Port), and World Records (Goshen). 
that's the way it's always been. forcing convicts to make their own decisions, through an inmate council, fs "the only way to learn to make good decisions," according ro Murton. The inmate council took charge of food production manage­ment and job assignments, among its other responsibilities. Murton also discussed his short­lived career as the warden of a cor­rupt Arkansas penal system. Hired in I967 hy the late governor Winthrop Rockefeller to clean up the abuses of the Tucker Prison Farm, Murton produced considerable improve­ments after ahout ten months. In .January, I 96H, he transferred to Cummins State Prison, Tucker's parent institution. Three weeks later, against Rockefeller's orders, Murton uncovered three skeletons buried in unmarked graves, in the presence of the media. The warden alleged that the 
remains  belonged  to  murdered  
prisoners  and  over  two  hundred  
more were buried.  

Murton also claims that the gover­nor had given his approval for the gravedigging cpisodc, but requested that Murton wait to expose the cor­ruption. Coincidentally, that year marked an election year in Arkansas. 
"Justice delayed is justicc denied," Murton said. According to Murton, the governor made an error in assuming prison reform as "a func­tion of law." 
Murton also criticized candidates who usc prison rdorm in their cam­paign platli>rms. "Reformers of that nature arc indistinguishablt: from that corrupt system that they try to retimn," according to Murton. He believes that convictions for rdi:>rm need a "strong religious or ethical base." 
State oftkials threatened to indict .\1urton for graverobbing after the incident that exposed the scandal in Arkansas' penal system. Rockefeller instead tired Murton and asked him to leave the state. Since then, the penologist who holds a doctorate in criminology, has heen denied posi­tions in any prison system. 
Murton does not regret his ac­tions, however. "If I knew I was going to be tired, I'd have dug up all 200 graves." • 
The prohlcm with the Arkansas system, Murton says, was that they asked him to compromise his prin­ciples, a direct contradiction to his philosophy. "In order to bring about social change, or any kind ofchange, you have to have two things. You have to have power and you have to have committment. 
.(. .,. 


The Observer Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 5 

were injured in the accident which left the car crumpled under the trailer, and the tractor han­ging about 30feet m•eranother traffic lane. ( AP) 
Authorities fail again to capture tax tnilitant 
ASHLEY, N.D. (AP)-Aconvoy of police officers swooped into this prairie town of 1,200 people yester­day. sealed off the highways and searched several houses in another futile attempt to capture an anti-tax militant accu~ed of killing two t;.s. marshals. 
An FBI agent accused "irresponsible" news reports of tip­ping the fugitive, Gordon Kahl, 63, that the police were heading for the town about I 0 miles from the South Dakota border. 
The convoy of 50 to 60 officers left an FBI command center in Jamestown just after dawn, warning reporters not to follow or risk being stopped by statepolice. 
The police rolled into Ashley before 9 a.m. and set up a command post behind the Mcintosh County Courthouse. They searched. the homes of Mike Phillips, Len Martin and Dr. James Coleman, a veterinarian. Coleman's clinic and a small religious academy located in the same building also were searched. 
All three men have been involved in a local anti-tax movement and are acquaintances of Kahl, authorities said. 
Authorities say Kahl was active in Posse Comitatus. a right-wing paramilitary organization that opposes federal taxation. 
Reporters who tried to follow the convoy were stopped at North Dakota Highway Patrol roadblocks on the four main highways leading into Ashley. But several reporters managed to get into town via hack roads. 
The FBI agent in charge of the operation, Richard H. Blay. said af­terwards he heliev'ed Kahl was there but tled when reports were aired that the police convov had left jamestown. ­
It was the second major police ac­tion since the shootings of the two marshals Sunday. On Tuesday, up to I 00 officers hacked by an armored personnel carrier surrounded Kahl's 
former  home  near  Heaton.  They  
found a large  arms  cache,  but  no  
Kahl.  


For Oscars 
Academy announces nominees 

HOLLYWOOD (AP) -Gandhi, the 
movie that no Hollywood studio 
wanted to make, captured top 
honors in the 55th Academy Award 
nominations yesterday, scoring in 
II categories, while Tootsie, and 
box-office champion£.T. wen: close 
behind. 
Jessica Lange scored a rare double nomination: for best actress in Frances and best supporting actress in Tootsie. No actress had done that since Teresa Wright in 1942. 
The biography of India's Mahatma 
Gandhi was nominated for best 
picture. for Ben Kingsley's starring 
performance and for the direction of 
Richard Attenborough, who tried 
unsuccessfully to sell the project to 
American tilm companies. After he 
made the film with English and In­
dian financing, Columbia Pictures 
agreed to release it. 
Tootsie. another Columbia release. finished second-highest in nominations with I 0, t<>llowed by E.T.-tbe Extra-Terrestrial. with nine. Both were selected t<>r best picture. along with Afissing. and The Verdict. 
Dustin Hoffman was nominated as 
best actor t(>r his pert(Jrmance in 
Tootsie a~ an out-of-work actor who 
becomes a star when he dresses as a 
woman and appears in a soap opera. 
Also nominated were Kingsley. Jack 
Lemmon of .Hissing, Paul Newman 
of The Verdict, and O'Toole of .l1J• 
Fal'orite }'ear. 
Julie Andrews also won a nomina­tion for switching sexes. She is a bt:st actress contender tor her masquerade as a male cabaret singt:r in Victor-Victoria. Qtht:r nomina­tions include Jessica Langt:, Frances; Sissy Spact:k. .Hissing; \1eryl Streep, 
Sophie's Choice, and Debra Winger. An Officer and(/ Gentleman. 
Still anotht:r sex change pro,·idt:d a nomination as supporting actor for john Lithgow, tht: fiJothaller turnt:d ft:male in The Wortd·According to Garp. Otht:rs include Charlt:s Dur­ning, The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas; Louis Gossett, Jr., An Officer and a Gent/eman;Jamt:s :'vlason. Tbe Verdict, and Robert Prt:ston, Victor, Victoria. 
Four of tht: candidates tor 
supporting actrt:ss wt:rt: first-timt: nominet:s: (;It:nn Clost:, The World According to Gatp; Tt:ri Garr, Tootsie; Miss Langt:,Tootsie, and Les­ley Ann. Warrt:n, Victor, Victoria. Also namt:d was Kim Stanley for Frances; she was nominated in 196-l 
as best actress in Seance on a Wet Afternoon. 
Wolfgang Petersen was some­thing ofa surprise as nomint:e for his dirt:ction of the German-made sub­marine movie, Das Boot. Otht:r directors nominatt:d art: Atten­borough tor Gandhi; Stt:ven Spiel­berg, E. T.; Sydnt:y Pollack, Tootsie; and Sidney Lumet. The Verdict. 
The nominations wert: madt: hv mt:mbers of tht: individual craft branches of the Academv of :\lotion Picturt: Arts and Scit:n~es: writt:rs voted tor writing awards, actors t<>r acting, t:tc. All mt:mht:rs vott:d for best picture in tht: nominations, and all will vote in all catt:gorit:s t<>r tht: final awards, to bt: presented April I I at tht: L1is Angt:les :\lusic Ct:nter. 
THE MIDSHIPMEN & CADETS OF NOTRE DAME 
PRESENT 
The Tri-Military Ball 
AN EVENING OF DANCE Friday, February 25 ACC Monoqram Room GET YOUR TICKETS NOW AT THE ROTC BUILDING. 
You won't have to take up a collection to afford our lavish Sunday Family Buffet Brunch 
ll:m:0a.m. ')1:\~ \ .,, 
3:30 p.m. v'Jj. 
.. . ' ~v--ff-' 
~/ >L-~1 
~ '0 
Every week, we dish out the tastiest Sunday service in town. Roast Beef. Ham Rolls. Lasagna, and Fish. Fried Potatoes, Egg 
Dishes, Gravy, and Assorted Pastries. Salads and Fruit. Plus a whole buffet full of other family favorites. All for the heavenly low price of $6.95. So come pass the plate with us next Sunday. You can take all you want. Without giving 'till it huts. 
52885 
US 31 North 
Lyricists Alan and \1arilyn 
Bt:rgman scorn! thret: nominations 
for best song:" How DoWt: Keep tht: \1usic Playing'" from Best Friends; "If Wt: Were in Love" from Yes, Givrgio, and 'It Might Be You" from Tootsie. Also named: "Eyt: of tht: Tiger," from Rocky Ill, and ''l'p 
Wht:re We Bt:long," from An Ojficer atul a Gentleman. 
Nicaragua's A/sino and tbe Con­dor was among tht: nomint:t:s for fort:ign language t1lm, along with 
Coup de Torchon (Clean Slate) ( Franct: ); The Flight of the Eagle ( Swedt:n ); Pril'ate J.Ue. and Vo/l'er a Empezar( To Uegin Again) (Spain). 
Family 
Buffet 
$6.95 (Children under 12 -$3.95) 

Applications are now available for Student Government Judicial Coordinator, at the Student Government offices. 
Questions contact Kevin Stierer 239-6778 
'\t n,r r-a·nr, 'II'\I ·n-JM'' 
C{)IWHIJNIIC!lllii{)N l 
,__...__(JllriiCAilli(l[ lt=ll2111[)A\"" lt=IIIL~\ ~1~11:2111~~ 
Due to the unavailability of "Chan is Missing" the Fnday Night Film Series will be "Manhattan" starring Woody Allen 
Annenberg Aud.,Snite Museum Admission: $2...00.._,
........--lr~u ~ 11,131ti lr 
SKI COLORADO! 
with the Student Union 
SleiiiiiiJKJil 
steamboat springs, colorado 
Stay at the luxurious Ski-Inn or Ski Times Square for the 5 days and 6 nights over Spring Break 
•Located at the lifts!  •Qualityski-rentals available  
•St. Patrick's Party!  •PRICE: $210  
•Wine & cheese parties!  


Midnight Shows Friday & Saturday ROCKY HORROR -PINK -FLOYD, THE WALL BLOOD SUCKING FREAKS 
2 for 1 wiUi fh1s act tor m1drifght shows 


--~------------------------------------------------------­
The Ob:;erver Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 6 
Figures may signal recession's end 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Factory use is up for the tlrst time in nearly a year, and fewer Americans arc filing initial jobless claims, the govern· mcnt said yesterday. The reports spurred wider agreement that the recession has ended. 
The new indicators followed President Reagan's claim Wcdncs· day night that "as a result of the economic program we already have in place, the recovery is beginning to tlcx its muscle." 
There is far from universal agree­ment about who should get credit for recovery, or blame for the long recession, hut there no longer seems any doubt the rebound is under way. 
Commenting after yesterday's reports were released, private analyst Allen Gutheim said, "Everybody's very upbeat all of a sudden." 
Other officials and analysts had similarly encouraging comments at~ tcr Wednesday reports that showed industrial production rising a strong 
0.9 percent in January while new housing construction was leaping a record ;36 percent. 
Yesterday's Federal Reserve Board report said manufacturers 

• 

Ill 
oesn' 
• 

opportunity to see these 
projects to completion. In the long run we think you'll find that TRW offers 
an environment that brings out 

us.... 
I. 
I 
I 
\ 
\ 

At TRW it"s what we're all about. We've created an environment encouraging people like you to 
define and go aher your individual professional goals. So when you-work with us. 
you'll get a personalized approach to your technical growth. An approach that includes . 
An informal atmosphere that 
encourages insightful thinking. 
Co-workers who value the free 
interchange of ideas. 
Responsive managers who look 
out for your advancement. A broad spectrum of challenging projects to choose from -­
Projects ranging from large data 
base software systems. communications spacecraft and alternative energy sources, to scientific satellites. high energy 
lasers and microelectronics. 
And you'll appreciate the 
the uniqueness in you. 
TRW will be on campus February 24 25 hiring graduates in most Engi­neering and Scientific disciplines at all degree levels. 
See your Placement Office for 
more information. College Relations TRW Electronics and Defense Bldg. R5/B196, Dept. One Space Park Redondo Beach, CA 90278 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
··~·· 
operated at 67.8 percent ofcapacity in January, up one-half percentage point from December's 67.:3 per· cent, which had been the lowest rate ever recorded. 
Though the January operating rate still left factories running at Iitle more than two·thirds of capacity, it marked the tlrst monthly increase since last february and only the third in 18 months since the reces· sion began. 
In a separate report, the Labor Department said initial jobless benefit claims fell 7,000 to a total of SI0,000 Americans in the t1rst week of February. Claims had risen the previous two weeks hut had fallen sharply just before that. 
Gutheim, a senior economist with Wharton Econometrics, said recovery should mean increases in employment· before long. But he also said the national uncmploy· ment rate could still rise slightly from January's I0.4 percent of the civilian work force before starting 
hack down. 
The factory-usc report said two 
long-hurting parts of U.S. heavy in· 
dustry, motor vehicles and iron and 
steel, increased their capacity 
utilization substantially in January's ;3.5 percentage points for iron and steel and I. S points for automakers. 

However, they were still operat­ing at low levels: the auto industry at under 54 percent of capacity and iron and steel at less than -lO per· cent, the report indicated. 
Reflecting the continuing worldwide "oil glut," producers of refined petroleum products cut their use of capacity one point fur· ther in January, reaching a record low of66.1 percent. 
Government figures for total capacity utilization as well as for in· dividual categories go back to 1948. 
A separate index in the new 
report indicated that total U.S. 
manufacturing capacity rose 
modestly in the fourth quarter of 
1982 as it has risen throughout the 
recession. However, Gutheim said 
such figures, relying on reports from 
the manufacturers themselves, can 
sometimes be misleading. 

He said that as a practical matter, some basic industries, certainly including iron and steel, probably are actually operating at greater· than·shown percentages ofcapacity. But that is only because they have not yet formally admitted some mills or factories can never reopen and are still listing them as usable capacity. 
Still, Gutheim said, growing car sales, coupled with an expected surge in production of the ap· pliances that will go in all those new houses being started, "can bing steel along very nicly (toward) some modest recovery this year" 
The federal Reserve report noted that although current operating rates are very low, even strong recoveries do not send rates ncar I00 percent. In fact, rates for manufacturing as a whole have exceeded 90 percent only in wartime, it said. The rate was 79.8 

percent in July 1981 before begin· ning to decline. 
Fires sweep 
S. East Australia 
SYDNEY, Australia ( AP) -Fire 

hrigadcs fought hush fires around ·Melbourne yesterday but controlled most of the conflagration that has swept across Australia's southeast coast like "a panzer division." Police 
said at least 69 people were killed. 
"It was like a giant tlame thrower," 
said one weary tlrdlghter. 
"The wind was like it came from a 
huge hair dryer," said a man who lost 
his house, one of j,OOO homes 
destroyed in seven towns that were 
consumed by wind-driven flames 
Wednesday and yesterday. 
"A panzer division going through 
could not have caused so much 
damage," said Prime Minister Mal· 
colm Fraser after an inspection tour. 
More than 4,000 firetlghters had most of the fires under control yes­terday Flames, tanned by gale-force winds, devastated 2,600 square miles of drought-stricken farmland, forest, and scrub along a 500-milc stretch of Australia's southeast coast in the state~ of South Australia and Victoria. 
Exhausted tlrctlghters were still 
battling outbreaks late yesterday in 
the hills around Melbourne, 
Australia's second largest city. Else· 
where, they remained on guard. 
Police said 69 bodies had been 
ti>und. With -!6 bodies alre-ady found 
in Victoria and 2j in South Australia, 
police expected the total to exceed 
the 71 killed in Victoria in 1931 in 
the worst brushtlre in Australian his· 
tory. 
Some people died in their 
automobiles, trapped as they tried to 
flee the flames. 



The Observer Friday, February 18, 1983-page 7 
Miami officer indicted for manslaughter 
:V11A\11 (AP)-A :VIiami police of­
fleer surrendered yesterday after a 
grand jury indicted him for 
man~laughter in the shooting of a 
black man which ignited two days of 
racial violence in the Overtown 
slum. 
Officer Luis Alvarez, named in the 
sealed indictment returned Wed­
nesday night, was to be released on 
his own recognizance after process­
ing, said Chief Dade Circuit Judge 
Gerald Wetherington. 
Manslaughter is a second-degree 
felony punishable by up to I 5 years 
in prison upon conviction. 
An 18-member Dade County grand jury issued the indictment at~ ter a two-day investigation into the Dec 28 shooting of NeveU Johnson Jr. at a video arcade. State prosecutors spent six weeks on the case before handing it to the panel Tuesday. 
Wetherington noted that it was 
not unusual for manslaughter defen­
dants to be freed before trial. 
"In this kind of case, as a general ruie, if a person doesn't have a criminal record, and he's a long-time re~ident of the community, release on recognizance is not unusual at aiL" he said. 
Alvarez's attorney, Roy Black, said 
he will consider an attempt to move 
the trial outside of Miami. 
Garth Reeves, editor of the black­oriented Miami Times newspaper, said the indictment would probably ~atisfy Miami's black community, al­though he had expected a harsher charge. 
continuedfrom page 1 
control." 
Kevin Walsh, president of CILA, 
maintained that there were three 
reasons why CILA chose to support 
the bilateral freeze referendum: 
"The unilateral freeze didn't pass; 
right now, Notre Dame is not 
supporting any freeze, and this is a 
crucial issue. We would rather be on 
record as supporting a bilateral 
freeze than only turning down a uni­
lateral freeze." 
One of the focal points of the upcoming justice in a Nuclear Future? convention (headed by O'Brien) will center around the purpose of weapons freezes and CILA wants Notre Dame to enter the conference "on a positive note." 
"Some of us felt that the College 
Republicans used the bilateral 
freeze against the unilateral freeze, 
and we question their sincerity. We 
would like them to help sponsor this 
(bilateral freeze)." 
When asked about possible cam­
paign tactics tor a bilateral freeze, 
Walsh replied, "We've planned very 
little. There's built-in information 
from films like Atomic Cafe and 
from articles in the Obserl'er. We 
believe that the majority ofstudents 
would support a bilateral freeze." 
Young Democrat President Jim 
Malackowski announced early yes­
terday evening that his group had 
chosen to support .the bilateral 
freeze. 
In an open lette• to the student body, Malackowski states, :.Our or­ganization believes that we must un­dertake serious, sustained efforts to produce substantial, equitable, and veritlable reductions of nuclear weapons to lower levels to lessen the possibility of nuclear war. A bilateral freeze with the Soviet L:ni­on would be a positive initial step toward this goal." 
According to .\lalackowski, "no one was against the bilateral freeze," though the members were split over the unilateral freeze referendum \vhich was defeated feb. H hy a 28';~ to 16-tS margin. 
"For so long, police killings have gone unindicted, so this is a small victory of sorts for the black com­munity," he said. 
State Attorney Janet Reno, who announced last Friday that she would turn the matter over to the grand jury, said "I think our inves­tigation was as thorough as possible and the grand jury was as thorough as possible. Wt· will now proceed to prosecute." 
Police said Alvarez and his 
partner, Louis Cruz, entered the 
video games room and noticed a 
bulge in Johnson's pocket that 
looked like a gun. Oftlcials said the 
21-year-old black man was shot in 
the head when he made a sudden 
movement after being ordered to freeze. 
Alvarez and Cruz were relieved from duty with pay after the shoot­ing, said police spokesman \1ike Stewart. 
Witnesses' statements to police and reporters differed over whether Johnson was armed. 
Police initially called the shooting accidental. Black leaders considered it an unprovoked attack and demanded that Alvarez stand trial. 
The shooting touched oft' looting, torching ofcars and attacks on white motorists in the predominantly black Overtown neighborhood, located in the shadow ofdowntown Miami. 
During the violence, a suspected looter was shot and killed by police and nearly 30 people were injured. Police made 3 7 arrests. 
Wh~n asked about why the Notre Dame College Republicans were not a part of the bilateral freeze, College Republican President Mark Lynch stressed a unity with Republican Party politics. 
"We have chosen not to take an official position. We'd never take a stand based on a show of hands," Lynch said. 
Jim Malackowski explained that he was "surprised" when he dis­covered that the College Republicans would not support the bilateral freeze considering the em­phasis which they placed on the dan­gers of a specitkally unilateral freeze: "If they (College Republicans) don't come out in favor of the bilateral freeze, considering their statements during the unilateral freeze referendum, we (Young Democrats) see a huge in­
consistency." 
Melachowski cited an article in 
the Feb. 9 Obserz•er in which the 
College Republican president said 
that many members of his group 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
EVERY DAY 
2 for 1 Drinks 4-7 
with Homemade Food & Snacks 
"Snake Bites," Special, .50' every Thursday 


Tehran is pay tribute to 17 oftbeir belol'ed ones killed in tbe Val-Far operations launched Feb. 6 in soutbern fronts. Cofjins are adorned zl'ith 
11-year-old girl 

Indiana governor pleads for donor 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Gov. Robert D. Orr made an appeal yes­terday for a heart donor for an I 1­year-old Anderson girl accepted for transplant surgery at Stanford llni­versity Medical Center. 
"This is a situation where we need tl.l have some help," the Republican 
• • • Freeze 
would support a bilateral freeze. 
Joby O'Brien, president of Circle­K, said, "We just came up with the idea of the bilateral freeze after last week. We're just a service organiza­tion to benefit the community, and we feel this is an important thing to the social community at large." 
J.P. W. 
schedule 
Junior Parents Weekend opens tonight with the Cocktail Dance at the Century Center beginning at nine. Tomorrow's events in­clude Collegiate Workshops in the morning .and various song, dance. and film activities in the afternoon. A \1ass will be held at Sacred Heart at -1:~0. followed bv the President's Dinner at ~in the ACC. The weekend closes with a breakfast on Sunday in the ACC. 
Cold Beer & Liquor Carry Out Till3 am 

governor told reporters. 
Orr held a news conference in rus office with the young patient, Sharon Stohler, ai)J,l her family in an eft'ort to boost the search for a heart donor. If a donor is found, Sharon will be the youngest person in the 
country to undergo a heart transplant. 
Sharon, a sixth grader at Ander­son's Robinson Elementary School, sutfers from cardiomyopathy, a degenerative disease of the major heart muscles. As a result of the disease, her heart is about the size of two grapefruits on top ofeach other. 
The girl is contlned to a wheel­chair to conserve her strength. Her -heart, which operates at only a frac­tion of the capacity of a normal heart, has left her physically 

weakened. 
When she was wheeled into Orr's oftke, she greeted him with a cheer­ful "Hi, governor." Orr responded, "Hi, Sharon. Nice to see you." 
The governor introduced himself · 

to Sharon's parents, David and Bar­
bara Stohler, and her two brothers, 
Christopher, 8, and Joseph, -t. 
''I'm hopeful that we might be 

able to help Sharon in her quest tor a 
new heart," he said. "We're hoping 
that this is something that can he 
found expeditiously so she can get 
well again." 
Orr commiserated with the parents, saying, "it must be ·a very frustrating experience to sit and wait and not know whether there's going to be anybody who may be a potential donor." 
:. 
The Obset-ver Friday, February 18,.1983 -page 8 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~elcome Junior Pa.rent~ 

PI"OCCHIO·s PIZZA PARLOR 

f-ast Delivery Service 277-4522 We deliver Thurs-Sun 
Hours: 
Beer Specials 
Mon-Thurs 8:00 pm-10:00 pm $2.00 Pitcher I .50¢ Mugs 
------------.
~This coupon good for one 1 1
I LARGE PIZZA I 1 $2.00 OFF I
L-----------• 
HAPPY HOUR 
Mon-Fri 4 pm-6 pm 
Fri-Sat 8 pm-12 am 
4ft. wide screen TV 
r--=Em_m_o_n_s_,.----t--­
Pin_.o.cc~hto~<i~s N
~-1 ! 
v
Georgetown e 
Plaza I 
~~ Juniper 
d 
.----------~ 
1 Th is coupon good for onel 
1I
I MEDIUM PIZZA I I $1.000FF 
~---------­
Please-one coupon per pizza 
Home of the mighty Wurlitzer pipe organ 

Francesco's Italian Dining 
Original Southern Italian Home Cooking 'Everything is a' homemade' 
I ~· 
r C. 
0 
...!!'1!"--lw
Edison 
0 0 d 
1636 N. Ironwood Ph. 277-6155 -6566 Deliveries Available to ND & SMC 
BEER AND WINE 
10% discount on dinners and any large pizzas with coupon to NO & SMC students 
M 
a 
i 
n 
s 
t 
Spec1alwng m. Spaghetti a Ia 
And a vanety of Carbonara 
pasta and Melanzam-stu/led 
sandwiches. egg plant 
Also featunng Brac1oll alia 
Francesco's Four Calabrese­Seas<>n Pizza 
stufled beef roll 
Francesco IS a forrnP.r chef ol the Holy Cross Fathr·':.. lor over 21 years 

Welcome Parents 
-to-

Mon.-Thurs. 9:00AM -10:00 PM' Fri.-Sat. 9:00AM· 12:00 Midnight 
• • . Focus 

continuedfrom page 1 
family, Lonardo, Gallo and two others were convicted of running a multimillion-dollar drug ring. 
FBI agents said Lonardo ran the family after its boss, James "Jack White" Licavoli, 78, was imprisoned last summer. 
Joseph Griffin, FBI agent in charge for northern Ohio and a veteran Mafia investigator, said the Cleveland family began dying when it stopped recruiting young mem­bers. 
According to Griffin, few new family members were "made"-for­mally inducted -during the reign ofJohn Scalish, who was boss for 30 years until his death during heart surgery in 1975. 
Licavoli succeeded Scalish, but also showed little interest in finding new mebers. An old man who began with Detroit's Purple Gang, Licavoli just wanted to play golf, says an FBI agent who requested anonymity be­
cause he works in undercover inves­tigations of the Cleveland family. 
"We ain'tgonna bave the power in the coun­
try that they have" 
"They ( Scalish and Licavoli) were old men who had made their money," the agent said. "They had no interest in the future." 
It's a problem organized crime faces all over the country. 
In testimony Wednesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee in Washington, a veteran police official said the major organized crime families face an uncertain future now that their founding godfathers are dead or retired. 
Lt. Col. Justin]. Dimino, executive officer of the New Jersey State Police, said, "They're starting to hurt. They've got the second or third teams in there, and they're not doing a good job." 
In addition to convictions in state and federal trials, members and allies in Cleveland were being lost to gang wars on two fronts -locally against rival mobster Danny Greene and in Youngstown against allies of Pittsburgh's Matla family. 
Gallo saw that the loss of mem­hers and the failure of Scalish and Licavoli to recruit meant key leader­ship roles would be vacant. 
The family also was losing money, Griffin said, since each memher was expected to pay regular tribute from his illegal activities. 
Gallo and another captain, Thomas "The Chinaman" Sinito, 4-l, 
intended  to  rehuild  the  family's  
hierarchy.  
"So  now  we  got  to  till  that big  

void," Gallo told Triscaro on the tape. 
At his trial, Gallo claimed he was talking about problems in the union, not in any crime family. But federal investigators said Gallo's comments showed he knew that without an or­derly passing of power, the family would lose influence among nation­
al Matia leaders. 
"We ain't gonna have the power in the country that they have ...,"Gal­lo said in the taped conversation. 
Sinito and Gallo decided on the most protitable ofall illegal activities rug deals -to rebuild the family. It grew into a $1 S million a year busi­ness with the help of Carmen Zagaria.He turned state's evndence. Zagaria described himself as a small­time dealer before he met Sinito and, through him, Gallo. 
As part of his plea bargain, Zagaria will serve a minimum of about 1-t years and as much as 30 yt~ars while continuing as a government witness, authorities said. 
Gallo is not known to be related to Joseph "Crazy Joey" Gallo. the New York mobster who was mowed down by mac~ine-gun tire at a res­taurant in Little Italy in 1972. 



·--------------------------------~1
1 

$3.00 Off Any Large Pizza-
I I 
1 or 1 : $2.00 Off Any Small Pizza : 
I I 
I PRESENT THIS COUPON WHEN ORDERING 1 : THE SAVINGS ARE DELICIOUS/ : 
: OFFER GOOD ON REGULAR· : 1 MENU PRICES ONLY 1 I COUPON NOT VALID WITH I 
I ANY OTHER OFFER_ 211 Eaet 0 •Y Ro•d 1 
Ml•b•w•k•, Ind. 
•••• •• •• •OFFER EXPIRES J.'EBRUARY 27, 1983 • • ••••••.. 
==Welcome Junior Parents=== 
THE BAND ORGAN RESTAURANT 
211 E. Day Road Mishawaka, Ind. 
259-0050 

Editorials 
Friday, February 18, 1983-page 9 
Better late than never 
~ormally my columns are tilled with strong opinions and sharp criticism~ about situations that I would rectify or change in some way I don't know if iris because of some strange at­mospheric condition or the recent passage of Valentine's Day. but I seem to have been hit-
RandyFahs 
Friday Analysis 

ten by a bug ofsentimentality. The main focus of my change in attitude is Junior Parenb' \\'eekend. Like many members of the Class of 
to Notre Dame this weekend. 
sentiment;! about. \\'e all get to put on jackets and ties or dresses so that we can go to a for­mal treatn\ Spenlwagon concert in the adjacent dome. Alithis plus a sp~·ech from Father llesburgh ( l can hardlv hdit·ve he'll be there world wi.ll have weekend). e\ent to make someone fed sentimenral. 
what parents as place seem like a cross between Fantasy Island 
~ 
and Catholic Disneyland. Rather. I tend to feel 
sentimental becau~e of what my parents have 
been doing for me over the last 20 years. 
Our dailv lives t1nd us far from home and terribly hu.sy with classes, assignments, and friends. There are so many things going on that we often forget everything bevond our immediate sphere of contacts. We tend t<) act as though we live in a va•::.:ur.-, where we are the masters of our destiny and where outside occurrences are of little consequence to us. 
Our youth, freedom, and presence at a place like Notre Dame is, in part, a result of our own efforts. But, let us not forget the all­important part played hy our parents. We're all well aware that we have to thank them for our very lives (although·! would imagine that some people are damning my parents ti1r my existence). \li'e ~hould also remember the support and encouragement they abo give. as well as the prices they've had to pay (tuition money doesn't grqw on trees). 
I. t()r one, would like to credit my parents t(,r helping me to :-.trive to ht: a wist-rand more complete per~m. They encouragnl me to try new things and thn· han:· helped me to rl·alize heights which I felt were bevond mv reach. I am especial!\· thankful to them hecau~t: rhev nt:ver used the word "impossible." 
In essence. I'm trving to say that we all have manr things to be proud of and grateful t(Jr in our daily lives. Sometimes the hu~rle and hustle keeps us from remembering the people standing behind us who have made ~o much possible in our lives. For me. the two people who are most responsible for my good fortune are my parents. junior Parents' Weekend will be an atypical event in my relationship with my t()]ks. hut it will he special because it w!!! he another chance for ~h.:i·n tG experience :!::~;;~ ~hiiig" that all three of us have worked so hard to reach. 

One other thing about this weekend that I 
find strange is that even one will be trying so hard to he on their best behavior. As my father has often told me. "I was no an~e! ;l;-,<:: i li:f.~!~'.' vou aren't one either, :;o .JD:1't. try to kid me about it." 
And lastlv. tor those times when I have tor­gotten to acknowledge all they have done for me and meant to me, I would like to say, "VIom and Dad. !love you very much. Thanks for even·thing." 

The Atomic Cafe 
plays tonight 
Dear Editor: 
As part of the Social Concerns film Series, The Atomic Cufe will he shown tonight at "':30 in the Engineering Auditoruim. The movie. which protrays the evolution of nuclear war. was chosen for the film series to increase awareness on this most vital issue. 

The Atomic Cafe is a feature-length tllm created entirely from American atomic propaganda of the 1940's and 1950's. With no narratiion, it tells its story by juxtaposing ex­cerpts from newly-discovered and rarely-seen government and military propaganda, televi­sion and radio shows, cartoons, and now· forgotten "bomb songs" that saturat.ed. rhe airways. The tllm then uses this material to reveal I 5 vears ofconcerted efforts bv the l r.s. government and media to mislead the American public on the subject of nuclear warfare and atomic weapons testing. 
By turns ridiculous and horrifving, The Atomic Cafe is a comic nightman:. aDr. Stmn­gelol'e, a nuclear Reefer Madness. It lays hare government d'forts to promote the beauty. ac­curacy and strategic nece~sity of the Bomb. and the survivability of atomic war through the use of fallout shelters, while belittling the dangers of A-test fallout and the dead-end t1nality of nuclear war. 
"Though these films are from 'the 40's and SO's, it can be argued that many of the \'t'rv same myths are being advanced today," says Pierce Rafferty, one of the filmmakers. 
Never-het()re-relcased footage in The Atomic Cafe includes an Air Force interview with Colonel Paul Tibbets, the pilot of the atomic bomberEnola Gay which annihilated 
Hiroshima. "I was accused of being insane, of 

being a drunkard. ofbeing everything that you 
might imagine a derelict to he," says Tibbets. 
"as a result of guilty conscience for doing 
this." Tibbets suggests that while the t:.S. 
government might feel guilty about the hom­
bing, he does not. 
The Atomic Cufe is t1lled with graphic images ofthe oftkiallunacy ofthe post·World War II period. However, the filmmakers insi!>t upon the contemporary relevance of the his· rorical material they have used in the movie. 
Filmmaker Jayne Loader says. "Let's face it, 

propaganda is as perva.~ive today as it was 
then. if nor more so." The tilmmakers agree 
that if a healthY skepticbm about oftkial 
voices of reassurance comes out of viewing 
The Atomic Ctife, 'then the movie would he a 
s:ttbfying accomplishment. 
Centerfor ,.ocial Concems 


i 
...____.. --·-· ---------,-·---...-----­
·---~---­
Democracy not an illusion 
DearEditor, 
Though accepting some of Thomas Vlel­sheimer's criticisms of the Begin government in Tuesday's Observer, we believe that he seriously distorts several key issues. The first point concerns Begin's motives for establish­ing the commission investigating the Beirut massacres. The Prime Minister did not agree to this step, as Melsheimer claims, because he was forced to appease "intense world criticism." He yielded primarily hecuase of the public outcn· in Israel calling for an inde­pendent investigation. \lelsheimer also asserts that it is an "illusion" 10 call hrael "a pillar of freedom and democracy" hn:ause of rhe Begin government's policv. Democracy in Israel is no illusion. It is a tribute to the strength of hraeli democran· that a judicial body. appo-inted hy Parliament. vigorous!\· sought out rathc:r than attempted to ~upprt·ss the truth. Israel remains. contran· to \ld­sheimer's position. an open socit:tv. an American ally. and the only ckmocratic _,rate in the Middle East. 
Melsheimer's comparison between the 
.!\/uremherg trials and the Israeli inve,tigation is inept and misleading. Nazi war criminab planned and executed the atrocities with which thev were charged. The Israeli militan did not. on the contrary. order or participate in the Beirut massacre~. Deknse .\lini~ter Sharon permilled the Phalangisrs to enter the refugee camps. purportedly to root out suspected terrorists. The investigating com· mission censured him for that decision.· refused to accept his defense that he could not have foreseen what would happen. and declared him to he directly responsible ti1r the murders that followed. But it also made dear that Israeli oftlciab did not intend the _slaughter ofcivilians which occured. The kil­lings were executed lw Lebanese Christian~ 
intent on retaliating for the ass:!ssination of President-elect Pierre Gemayel and the mas­sacre of Christians hy PLO t()rce:-. during the Lebanese civil war. \lelsheimer's allusion to !\/uremherg implies that the actions of the goverment of Israel are comparable to those of!\/azi Germany. This argument is discredited hy the findings of the ct)mmission and the fact that it was an Israeli tribunal that held Israeli olficiab responsible for their actions. 
\lelsheimer concludes hv expressing his hope t()r a more "rational. moderate govern· ment" in Israel. This position is deft:nsihle. But to move from an argument about current Is­raeli policy to the claim that demouacv in ls­r~wl ·~ an illusion is not. \lt:lslleimer 'hould have chosen his words more carefully. 

Sincere!)'. Dm•id Nan·ett Thomas Kselman Assistant Professors, Department ofHistory 

Noneedfor fair trial? 
Dear Editor, 

In a letter to Tbe Obsen•er published on \londav. Father Claude Pomerleau write~: "'The four missionaries murdered in El ~al­vador ...were assaulted in various wavs and shot hv tlve members pf the Sahadoran st-curitv t\1rces. According to reliable tcs­rimonv, thev acted on orders. ~o otw seriou~­1~ t·xpects a fair trial for the murderers." 
Indeed; nor does it appear that Fathn Pomerleau, m his omni~cience, sn·s anv need t(Jr one. 
.\ i ncerl'lr. fames Rakoll'.~ki 

Inconsistency in keg policy 
/Jear Editor, 

lkcentlv, the Hall Presidenb Council was J,sked 10 .support an aluminum can drin· tor the :'\jorthern Indiana State Hospital. Each hall was a~ked to collect aluminum cans. The proceeds of this drive would go to tht· hospital li)r the purchase of a new \'an for the hand­icapped. The HPC was mtimned that a kt·g on Creen field would he provided for the dorm that collects the most cans. This offer was made in conjunction with Dean Roemer. We think this b a \'CIT worth\' cause and we com­mend Dean Roemer t()r his support. ~everthe­less. we have some problems with the keg offc:r. 
l'irst of all. we believe the students at Notre Dame are very responsible and caring. These students support many worthv causes. We feel they do not need an incentive for this drive. On the other hand. perhaps the keg was meant as an adult ofti:r t()r an adult group of students. In this sense. we appreciate the offer and hope this dialogue can continue. 
Regardless of the motives behind such an 
offer. we are still not sure ofthe consistenc~· of 
the l'niversity's alcohol policy. The ad· 
ministration adnKates "responsible drink· 
ing" as well as a han on kegs on campus. Then 
this same ·administration '"pports this offer 
We are not arguing one way or another on the keg issue; we are merelv questioning the administration's irue intentions hehind.its at· titude on alcohol. If our hall wins this "contest," we will refuse the keg. We value the ofti:r. hut we would rather see the coM ofa keg go to the Northern Indiana State Hospital. 
Sincere/J•, Stanford Hull Council 

Hospice thanks 
Dear Editor: 
"No one has ever become poor h\· giving." observed Annt· frank in her diary. And thl· Notre Dame students have personified that oncl· agam 
(her the Chri.-tmas season ~evnal halls look up collection~ during Mass liJr llo~pKc ofSt..Jo~cph County 
The re~ponse from the 'tudents (ot ( :ar­roll. Ltrln·, l'asquerillJ Ea~t and L~ on'. in particular J ha.., been mo~r impressi,·e. 
Hospice. as nJu know. is the home health care program which provides support ­medicallv. psychologtcallv and ~piritualll ­ti>r tt'fminaJJh· ill pJtit•n!s and thdr families 
Thank vou for \·our generosity and tor extending tht· Notre Dame spirit ofcanng to Ho'p!ce · 
Cutbleen A Cli11lon llospice Volunteer 

Hockey blame 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in response to the article "Hockey: \X'ho'~ to blame?" hy Chris Nec:dles ( l'eh ~ ). Brm>o' Being a hockey fan myself and ha,·ing personal tics with those on the team. I feel a great loss now that the program has been killed. I keep asking myself. "where is the justice)" All hope~ and expecta­tions thrown away bc:cause of Fr. joyce's deci­sion seems to me unjust. I question why. Could it he because hockey loses too much money, or because of one man's ignorance? It seems that money never got rai:,ed because Father Joyce wanted it that way. It is too bad that many have to suffer because of joyce's opinion of hockey. As for student support. where's the promotion for games. game rimes, and cost? Blaming students just won't stick. 
The Ohsen•er is to he thanked for publishing an article a lot of people appreciated. It expressed the ~ame feelings that I and many others have had tor a long time. 
Liz Hettericb, Sheila iiJuldoon, 
joan Rogers.]u/ie Hanahan, 
Ellen Cul~ino, Kuren K~;•med)' 

\ 
·········~·········································································· 

Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 10 
A 'DeQt Btuc'e' lettet 
D 
earBruce, I read your column Time-~orn Formulas with a feeling of regret. At the times we have talked, neither ofus ever mentioned the Cii;;~~b. the Lord, or the Catholic faith. We were busy, becoming friends. i nevei ~t:0u~ht to ask you how you felt about religion. Of­ten, in conversations, I do as:.: ~::>le ifGod has a place in their lives, or ifthey are going to Mass. It seems like part ofcaring for me to be concerned about faith. 
Were you a little near-sighted when you spoke ofold people? Faith says there is a love supporting all other loves, which never tires and never leaves us. The question is, not whether you believe in such a love, but whether the infinitely patient husband accompanying the childlike wife has found such a love. 
I can imagine how tiresome the old bishop must have sounded. I can remember thirty years ago, being a young man listening to old men preach. Nowadays, I am one of the old men doing the preach­
"··· 
,·, .. 
ing. May I suggest, as one who's been there, that you not let the otti­cial rhetoric fool you? The Gospel, as a love story, is remarkably beautiful. St.John the Evangelist writes: "For God so loves the world that He gave His only-begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him shall not perish, but have everlasting life." These are well-worn words. The Gideons, who give away Bibles, call thi:> verse ofJohn 
3:16 the most loved text in Scripture. Christians repeat such words until they accompany the beat of the heart, because they represent an essential truth. What a loss if we were condemned to believe that God does not love us, and He has not sent His Son. What hope would there be for a world without God's love, or without His Son born at Christmas, risen from the dead at Easter? 
You may imagine that only the old need God, and that the young, being passionate. can get along without the God-myth. Love is one activity that young people are not necessarily better at than old people. Only the old can prove that they've stayed the course for a 

• lifetime, sticking with a partner, for better or worse, for sixty years, or more. When you match the record ofhow well your grandfather loved vour grandmother, you'll be old yourself. You have to be a veteran lover, to be an authority on love. 
Love. writes St. Paul, is more perfect than faith, but it takes faith to find love. Do you think your tottering old bishop has the faith that has found love, or is his a geriatric case with hardening of the ar­teries~ If there is a Jove that moves the sun and stars, could an old man using dusty language be closer to the heart ofGod than a bored young man who plays eye games with a child at Mass? 
I'm glad you love the children, Bruce. For twelve years, I worked with the children at the Urchins' Mass. I would have cheated them if they had been brought to chapel just so that I could love them. Loving them so much, I wanted them to know that there was a better love than mine; a love that would be there ifl wasn't with them, or if their parents weren't with them; or if they were no longer children, or ifthey were so grown up and lacking attractiveness, no person on earth would make eyes at them; or if they were so displeased with themselves, they couldn't raise their own eyes off the ground to see who was watching. 
Itold them ofGod's love in all the ways I could. After all the stories ofPooh-bearand the Velveteen Rabbit, and after all the celebrations like St. Valentine's and their birthdays, the best words I could think ofwere that God so loved the world, He sent His Son ...They were old words, like a formula, but for me, and I hoped for them, the words, that were also familiar to urchins in Xanadu, were the words ofa love story with which they felt at home. 
You mentioned the bishop's threats offire and brimstone. He was really pulling out all the stops for New Year's. Fire and brimstone represent not so much God's mood, but some possible mood we could have toward themselves. "At Communion," you write, "the young people took their evidence ofGod's grace out of the church, leaving me to search for faith." What if the little boy had stayed, and you kept ignoring his small beauty? What if, for a thousand times that morning, you deliberately looked away from that small child, and every other small child wanting to be noticed, and concentrated in­stead on the dark spots on the ceiling? What ifevery Sunday, for five thousand Sundays in your life and all the weekdays as well, you kept your eyes distracted from the children, until one morning, you woke up to find that all the earth's children -grieved and disappointed that your eyes never had time for them -had gone away and left you? At the same time, you felt a realization crashing down that a childless world was not a world worth having. 
You might find regret like afirestorm beatingdown on your mind, and taste bitterness as acrid as the stench from a pit. That's the kind ofwarning preachers are offering, if they use the metaphors offire and brimstone. 
Bruce, I don't have the slightest fear that you are in danger offire and brimstone. Knowing your kindness, I don't think you are far away from feeling God's _essential love. I love you too dearly to feel the need to convert you. But I think you should consider that the liturgy is one ofthe thousand ways God has of touching so that we can understand how we are loved. Children touch us. Flowers touch us. The weather in its variable mood touches us. God's unambigious word touches us like the promises of the marriage vows. The Mass reminds us that even God's Son doesn't win all the battles, but that He was never defeated; and because of His coming, He makes it clear 



S
ontag is an essayist, playwright and novelist from New York. Previously she has lived in Arizona and California, where she at­tended the University ofCalifornia at Berkeley. She received her un­dergraduate degree from the University ofChicago and her Master of Arts and Ph.D. in Philosophy from Harvard. Sontag's style combines modernism with themes that are an expression ofher own taste. Her writing always contains an element of the unexpected, moving in seemingly devious directions, yet remaining perfectly rationaL 
Her novels include The Benefactor andl, etcetera. Sontag also wroteOn Photography, andUnder the Sign ofSaturn along with the t\lmscript,DuetforCam'iiJaIs. 

C
arroll is from Manhattan's Lower East Side and has been exposed to the drugs and petty crime that runs rampant in that area. He attended Wagner College and Colorado Univrsity, yet his writing reflects his New York background. 
Probably best known as a poet and lyricist, Carroll is associated with theJim Carroll Band, and wrote the songs "People who Died" and "Dry Dreams." His best known novel isBasketball Diaries, which he started at the age of 13. The novel addresses New York street life. 

W 
hat February activity includes seven guest speakers, a committee ofsix sophomores, and lo offun for the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community? n Sophomore Literary Festival, ofcourse! 
Preparations for this year's festival trace back to las summer when invitations were sent to different authors. As replies began to trickle in, the committee collected thoughts on a unifying structure, or theme.' Speakers were selected. Contracts were distributed. These few sentences summarize approximately seven iiivilths .::;fhard work on the committee's part. 
Anna Kim, in charge ofpubiie:iiyand adn:rti§ing ex­plained one aspect that makes these months ofwork especially difficult. Big name authors usually retire frot speaking after they become well known. This means that the committee has to think of authors that are we 
known, but not so popular that they won't speak. Not ar enviable task. This year's committee did inviteJohn Updike and James Michener, but were refused. 
Sometimes. there are personal rewards for work on the committee. One author, joel Oppenheimer, who shares his hometown with one ofthe committee mem hers, was unable to attend the festival due to sickness. Instead, he invited the committee member to visit for drink the next time he was home. Instances like this make all ofthe work even more worthwhile. 
This year's festival committee is chaired by Brian 
Sophomo 
Fest 
A
bbey is a novelist, a naturalis 
involved with an environm 
novels, The Monkey Wrencb G 
who travels across the United S 
also the author ofTbe Brave Co 
movie Lone~v are tbe Brave. De 
non fiction work. This hook offi 
Edward Abbey is replacing personal reasons. 
•Sunday, February 20; Susan Sontag, library au 
•Monday, February 21; 
tag Workshop, library lo 7:30p.m. -EdwardAI 
•Tuesday, February 22; I 
bey Workshop, library lG 7:30p.m. -Barry Lo 
·~ednesday,February 
Lopez Workshop, librar 
1:30 p.m.-RichardE auditorium. 
•Thursday, February 2• Brautigan Workshop, li 
7:30p.m. -Jim Carr(] •Friday, February 25; 1 Workshop, library loung 7:30p.m. -Larry Wo: •Saturday, February.26 
Woiwode Workshop, li1 3:00p.m.-TonyHar1 lounge. (subject to chang 7:30p.m. -Tony HarJ 
.. • :1!.• 

..... 

Ulicny and includes Anna Kim, publicity and advertis­
ing; Rich Lewis, finances; Ray Davis, programs;Jim 
Greene, travel arrangements; and Susie St. Ville, 
hospitality. ProfessorJohn Matthias advises the group 
and helped make contacts with some ofthe authors. 
Each author who does speak is provided with transportation and lodging. He or she also receives a standard lecture fee that was agreed upon earlier. The festival has no "real" budget according to Kim. In­dividual donations fund the festival. Any person who donates a dollar or more has his name placed in the program as a sponsor.The authors' publishers also con­tributed. Assistant Provost Sr. John MiriamJones helped in finding additional needed funds. 
The authors attending !he literary festival will lecture in the library audftorium, and wiii fo!!ow it up wfth a workshop the ensuing afternoon. The workshops are to he held in the library lounge, a much more intimate at­mosphere conducive to question asking. This is one part of the festival no one should miss. 
This year's authors are a well rounded group. The selection includes poets, playwrights, critics, and even a song writer. Showcase highlights each ofthe speakers on its pages. today. For more information on any ofthe writers, refer to the reserved book section ofthe library. They have a selection ofmost ofthe books writ­ten by the authors on reserve. 
re LitetQty 
~VQI 
t, a modern cowboy. Currently he is :ntal group, Earth First! Among his ng, tells the story ofan assemblage ates torching billboards. Abbey is 
t•boy which offered the base for the ert Solitaire exemplifies Abbey's rs meditations on Thoreau. 
ary Robison who had to cancel for 

l7:30 p.m.­
itorium. 
1:30 p.m. -Susan Son­
unge. bey, libr~ry auditorium. 
1:30 p.m.-EdwardAb­
unge. z, library auditorium. 3; 1:30 p.m. -Barry lounge. 
rautigan, library 
; 1:30 p.m.-Richard. 
rary lounge. I, library auditorium. 
30 p.m. -Jim Carroll 
ode, library auditorium. 
1:30 p.m. -Larry rary lounge. ison Workshop, library 
) 
ison, library audiorium. 

L
opez, .a native of Port Chester, N.Y., attended the Un!versity of Notre Dame and graduated cum laud'in I966. He received tht: John Burroughs Medal for distinguished natural History writing in I979, the Christopher Medal for Humanitarianism in I979, th~ Friends ofAmerican Writers Award in I98I, and an excellence in non-fiction award for I979. He also was nominated for the American Book Award in I980. 
His subject matter tends to be natural America and his works in­clude both fiction and non-fiction. Lopez has written some well­known Indian stories including a fictional narrative called, Desert Notes: Reflections in the Eye ofa Raven and a collection ofshort trickster stories entitled Giving Birth to Thunder. 

H
arrison a British writer, graduated from the University of Leeds, 
where he received a B. A. in Classics. He also received a 
postgraduate diploma in linguistics and has received many awards 
for his plays and verse. 
Some of his better known works are the plays The Bartered Bride, Oresteia, ad The Passion. His poetry uses many metaphors and interesting images that make 
for fun and interesting reading. His published titles include The School ofEloquence and OtherPoems, and Corsi Modern Poets in Focus4. 
~~~==~~----~ 

Latty Woiwode 
W 
oiwode attended the University ofIllinois and North Dakota State University. His works include novels and short stories, as well as poems. His short story Change ran in the New Yorker and won the Best American Short Story Award in 1981. 
His works, which reflect the Midwest, contain the titlesDon't You Wish You were Dead and The Suitor. The Suitor ran in McCalls and won the Best American Short Story Award in I971. 
• • ­

Friday, February 18, 1983-page 11 
. .. 
-:'.'or·· 
·~ ,•.. 


········· ·_'.~"'­
••••••••••• ••••••••~ ~ ~-r€;:·,,.)f,_.. :.: 
·~·

. . ;.
: ~~~-~~.-1cl ==· >fJ";:;'_
• T~ ~~~':(_~·I :;~.
i :;~c:~
••••• ••••• F 
m:{~_
~-w 
: ~ .. 
THEATRE 

For the children at heart,Alice, an adaptation of Lewis Carroll's 
Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass will open at 
Indiana University at South Bend's Northside Theatre wmorrow 
night. The adaptation by !USB Theatre Director Warren Pepperdine 
will include scenes with the Rabbit, the Caterpillar, the Duchess and 
Frog Footman, and the Cheshire Cat. Alice, with the March Hare and 
the Mad Hatter, will attend the famous tea party. Toe..tccept Carroll's 
invitation in to the world ofAlice, the IUSB The;~tn: box office will 
take your ticket reservation ifyou call them at 237-4203. At 75 cents, 
your little brother or sister could even afford it. 
MUSIC 

The Notre Dame Music Department will present a joint faculty or­
gan recital Sunday in Sacred Heart Church at 8: I 5 p.m. CraigCramer 
and Gail Walton will perform "Prelude and Fugue inC minor" by 
Mendelssohn, "Toccata Quarta, per l'organo" and "Toccata 
Seconda" by Frescobaldi, "Concerto all due organi" by Giovanni 
Lucchinetti, "Sonata No. I" by Paul Hindemith, "Organ Sonata tor 
Two Players" by Rayner Brown, and ·:Prelude and Fugue inC minor" 
byJ.S. Bach. The "Concerto," written for two organs, was arranged 
by Cramer and Walton for one organ and two players. 
MOVIES 

It's movie time again at the Engineering and Annenberg 
Auditoriums. For those freshmen, sophomores, and seniors who are 
watching their fellow junior domers trea'ting their parents to a 
weekend offun and festivities under the protection of Mary's 
beaming smile, there are a few bits ofcinematic fare from which an 
enjoyable evening may be obtained. In the Engineering ~uditorium 
tonight at 7 and 9:30p.m., Atomic Cafe will be shown. This is a one 
night showingso don't.put it off. Tomorrow night at 7, 9 and li p.m. 
George Burns and john Denver star in Oh God, Book 1. The oc­
tegenarian Burns seemingly will never give up the limelight. The 
role ofGod puts him right in the center of life and activity. This is·a 
good, fun Hick, an up-beat way ofstarting the backside ofa weekend. 
The Friday Night Film Series brings to the screen the first Chinese­American film, Chan is Missing. Director Wayne Wong portrays a milieu never before seen authentically on the screen. The suspense plot uses semidocumentary footage in much the same way as neorealism. ShO\vtime is 7:30p.m. and admission is 52. 
CHAUTAUQUA 

What do you do on Junior Parents Weekend ifyou are a freshman ora sophomore? While all the juniors are being treated to lavish din­ners at downtown eatingestablishments, we are stuck with the typi­cal dining hall fare. While we waste away our weekend hours looking at the homework that still needs to be done, the juniorsare partying with their parents. Well, who says that we can't too? We can, and the place to do it is Chautauqua. Another Chance to Dance will be presented in the Ballroom, sponsored this week by Howard and McCandless halls. There will be door prizes (albums) and free Coke, Tab and Sprite to drink. The time to be there is 9:30p.m. and the cost is a measly SI. Say hi to the DJ when you get there. 
NAZZ 

Not all the juniors will be relaxing with their parents tonight. Some ofthem will be working tonight, in particular, Tim Keyes ofthe bandPar 3 which will be performing in the Nazz from 9 until they can't play no mqre. Tim will be joined by his brotherJim "amateur angler" Keyes and Scott O'Grady. This dynamite trio was recently featured in The Keenan Revue and has performed in various homes and at Senior Bar. Join Tim's parents in ttie Nazz tonight to listen to the soundsofPar3. Then, tomorrow night, a rhythm and blues band will fill the underground of the Nazz. Pat Andrews, AI Dube, Bob Maravich, Linda Potts, and Doug Regan will play from 9 until? Oohn Warnock's favorite way ofsaying "whenever"). 
Adrenalin pumping 
A
drenalin is pumping, or at least it will be tonight when the Detroit band, Adrenalin performs at Senior Bar taking the stage at 9:30p.m. The sweet juices ofsuccess are flowing for Adrenalin now since the band has picked up a new lead vocalist, Marc Gilbert, after the suicidal death of David Larson and are bouncing back with full force. Within the past few months Adrenalin signed a contract with Polygram Records to release an album oforiginal material. 
One ofthe most popular club bands in Detroit, Adrenalin is bringing its electricity to Notre Dame tonight to rouse students with their original material. Be there for s?me heart pounding entertainment. 
• -..., • -· • ~ _<I -~ -==-1,. • -• • J.-.. • 
~-~~--~~ ------------~-----~-----~ 
The Observer 

Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 12 

• 
PRICES GOOD THRU FEB. 19th, 1983 PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE 
STORE ONLY 
ILOWENBRAU 
D D D 
D 
D 
D 
QUARTS 
MILLER 8.99 BUD 9.29 STROHS 8.79 OLD 7.38 
MILWAUKEE 

v • v LIQUOR ().\)., CORDIALS AND BRANDIES., Q.v WINES, CHAMPAGNES 
KINGS CELLAR 

CHRISTIAN 299
KALUHA 750 Ml ___________________________ 8" 
BROTHERS loS LITER -----­
VODKA OR GIN 

AMARETTO Dl SARONNO 1sa ML ____ 11 19 
YOUR CHOICE 399 499 799 OJ BAILEY'S IRISH CREAM 750 Ml 11 19 
~~:::~~LI~E~U~~~-~-~---399 750 Ml 1.0 LITER 1.75 LITER ~ ·· FRANGELICO soo Ill _______________ _ 8"
0 499
~~~~t LITERS ___________
HIRAM WALKER ••I PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS 750 Ill _4
.1..........~ 
. 399

.. .. HIRAM WALKER FLAVORED 
11 PAUL MASSON 1.5 LITER ­
BRANDIES 750 Ill ___________________ 4 
INGLENOOK 311
DUCONTE CORDIALS 1.0 LITEI ---------4" 
2 Liter 
• COKE 

V/$4' 
$1.19 

KEG SPECIALS BUD OR MILLER 
$29.99 
MICHELOB 
$37.99 

DEPOSIT $10 KEG $45 TAP NO RENTAL FEE IF RETURNED WITHIN 5 DAYS 
NAVALLE WINES 1.5 LITER 
• 
2
11 

LIEBFRAUMILCH 75811l _ 
TAYLOR 411 CHAMPAGNES 750 Ill ___ _ 
TAYUJI I 

~~,t-· 1 CINZANO 611 iWN§j ASTI SPUMANTE 750 Ill 
0 



The Observer 
Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 13 
Journeyman driver 
Bengal ~airings 
Pa~rings lor the first round of the 1983 Bengal Bouts, scheduled to begm atthe South Dome ofthe ACC Sunday afternoon at 7:30
hurt at Daytona 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. {AP)  - track and, using their own draft, shot  
Journeyman driver BruceJacobi was  past Foyt.  SUPER-HEAVYWEIGHT  165-LB  145-LB  
critically injured yesterday in one of two spectacular cartwheeling crashes that marred the Uno Twin  "I sat there until it was time," said Earnhardt, the 1980 Winston Cup champion. "I didn't know if I could  Mark LeBlanc. bye Andy Panelh. bye J1m Se1th. bye Larry Andre1n1. bye  Angelo Penna. bye M1ke Sullivan vs Marty Mas1as Hugh Doyle vs Pal Cusack 8111 Butler. bye  Pat Ser!IB. bye Rob DeS1ato vs John Conaghan Edmond Kelly vs. Ed Gavagan Pat Weber. bye  i;  
125-mile  qualifying  races  for  the  draft by him ( Foyt ).  I didn't try it  'i  
Daytona 500. Neil Bonnett and Dale Earnhardt  down the backstretch. "Then, I had to worry about Bud­ HEAVYWEIGHT  155-LB  140-LB  
maneuvered through the accident­ dy, but he ran out of racetrack."  M1ke Gray. bye  Dave Roberts. bye  Paul Derba. bye Hugh Gnff1th vs Ed Grogan  .  
filled sprints and overtook two of racing's biggest names, Richard Pet­ Kyle Petty, Richard's son, driving a Pontiac Grand Prix, also got past  J1m K1nney. bye John lglar. bye Arthur Murphy. bye  Joe Mezzapesa vs M1ke M.ttn Rtck Alexander vs Mtke A Sulhvan Greg Lezynskl. bye  Jay Coleman vs Jeff Masctoptnto Joe Beally. bye  
ty and A.]. Foyt, l:m the last laps to  the four-time Indianapolis 500 win­ 
win the qualifiers and earn second­row starts in Sunday's S 1 million  ner and finished third as Foyt was unable to try a slingshot move be­ 17Q-LB  150-LB  135-LB  
Grand National stock car race.  cause of slower traffic ori the inside  Dave Packo. bye  Steve Sterawskt. bye  M1ke Latz vs John Jahoda  
Pole-winner  Ricky  Rudd  and  lane.  M1ke McGUJre vs Joe Wtegand Tom Kelly vs Doug Ma1hafer  Joe Gtglla vs Mtke Mazza John Foley vs Dave Odland  Mtke Atello vs Mtke Dandurand Tony Bonacc1 vs Mall Coash  
Geoff Bodine clinched the front-row  Foyt finished fourth, followed by  John R1ce. bye  Tom Lezynsk1, bye  Dan Mclaunn. bye  
positions  by  posting  the  fastest  Joe  Ruttman,  Harry  Gant,  Rudd,  
qualifying speeds Monday.  David Pearson and Bill Elliott.  

The 47-ear-old jacobi, from Speedway, Ind., suffered what a Speedway spokesman described as a brain injury. He was taken to Halifax Hospital, where he underwent a CAT scan and was listed in critical 
ENGI

but stable condition in the intensive surgical care unit His mishap was in the tlrst 12'5-mile race. 
Rusty Wallace, from Valley Park, Mo., in the second race, was in­
TAKES

volved in a crash that was virtually a carbon copy ofJacobi's, and he also was taken to the hospital. The track spokesman said the 26-year-old Wallace was being held overnight 

EWDIM

for observation after suffering a strained neck and a mild concussion. jacobi, married and the father of three, is a veteran of numerous U.S, 
\

Auto Club racing events, including Indy cars, championship dirt cars, stocks and sprint cars, but had not run in a NASCAR grand National stock car race since 1976. 
Jacobi ran 15 Grand National events in 1975 and rhree more in 1976. His best finish was an eighth­place in the Talladega 500 in August of 1975. 
He made it into his qualifying race this week by posting a fast lap of 
184.268 mph during time trials. 
He wa running alone when his Grand Prix ran off the inside of the track coming off the second turn. As it flipped through the infle t ld grass, the top was torn off the car ­
astronautical, civil, 
OPPORTUNITIES
leaving only the steel roll-cage ­
and both ends were badly mangled. 
electrical, mechanical and IN THE NEW 
Wallace's Buick Regal wound up 
nuclear. Hnnrln,rJs of diverse USAF SPACE COMMAND 

in similar shape. 
specialties are led in a wide 
A second crash in the opening race and several other tangles in the 
variety of wor1 1gs. For 
second qualifler were less serious. 
example, an elt d engineer 
No injuries were reported. 
may work in air lesign,
The qualifying victories were 
space systems, r production,
worth S18,000 each to Bonnett and 
Earnhardt, and 14 ofthe top 1 S tlnis­
communications ·search. 
hers in each race on Daytona's 2. S­
A mechanical en ·r might be 
mile, high-banked trioval earned 
involved in aircr~ ·ucture
starting places in Sunday's SOO. Earnhardt a~·eraged 1. 5-t. "'-t6 mph 
Computer-generated design for investigating design, space vel launch pad structural strengths and weaknesses. Artist's c·oncept of the I>SCS Ill Defense Satellite in the tlrst race, while Bonnett 
construction, or 1 rch. 
Communications System satellite. (USAF photo.) 
finishd the 50 laps with an average of 
122.18:\. 
ISIBILITY Recently, the Air Force Developing and managing Air PROJECT RES 
Bonnett, who won SSO,OOO Mon­
COMES ~LY formed a new Space Command. 
Force engineering projects could 

day in capturing the Busch Clash, 
IN THE AI .JRCE Its role is to pull together space
slipped his new Chevrolet Monte 
be the most important, exciting operations and research and 

Carlo SS past Petty, a seven-time 
challenge of your life. The 

Daytona 500 winner, two turns from 
development efforts, focusing onprojects extend to virtually every 
the end and held off a strong move 
the unique technological needs of
by Petty's Pontiac Grand Prix to take 
engineering frontier. 

space systems. This can be your 
the second race by three-quarters of 
a car length. 
8 CAREER FIELDS 
opportunity to join the team that 
"When I was leading the race, I 
FOR ENGINEERS develops superiorspace systems
knew I couldn't lead and win it. So I 
as the Air Force moves into the 
thought I'd follow Richard and try to get around him (at the end)," Bon­
twenty-first century. 
nett said. 
To learn more about how you 
"I'm going into the race with the 
can be part of the team, see your
Air Force mechanical engineer inspecting there on the last lap and do it one 
intention of finishing. I hope to be 
aircraft jet engine turbine. Air Force recruiter or call our more time." 
Most Air Force engineers Engineer Hotline toll free 
In the first race, Earnhardt, with 
have complete project 1-800-531-5826 (in Texas call 
drafting help from Buddy Baker, whipped his 1983 Ford Thunder­
responsibility early in their 1-800-292-5366). There's no 
bird around Foyt on the backstretch 
careers. For example, a first obligation.

.;:;iiill

ofthe last lap. 
Air Force electrical engineer studying aircraft lieutenant directed work on a 
Foyt's Monte Carlo SS took over electrical power supply system. 
new airborne electronic system
the top spot on the 28th lap of the 
• tlrst race and stayed there until the 
Engineering opportunities in to pinpoint radiating targets. 
lead pack came down he back­
the Air Force include these Another engineer tested the jet
stretch on the SOth lap. At that point, 
eight career areas: aeronautical, · engines for advanced tanker and 
the second-place Earnhardt and 
third-place Baker pulled low on the 
aerospace, architectural, cargo aircraft. 

IN THE 
AIR FORCE. 


.
. 

~~()~ts=/~~~~~t~·E3~=S~~~=========================F=rid=a=y,=F=eb=rr-~a=IT~-=Is=,=I9=8=3~~pa~g=e:=l4
By The I JfJsen•er and The Associatetl Press 
Feb. 23 is the deadline for registration for two interhall tournaments. The open racquetball tournament, open to anyone on campus -students, faculty, and staff-will be a single elimination tournament. best of three games, one round per week. A wrestling tournament also will be held-the weight classes are 12~. 130, I~"'. HS, I S2, 160, 16"', 1"'"', and unlimited. IIails may sign up as teams. Call 239-6100 or stop by C-2 of the ACC to register for either of these tournaments before next Wednesday. -The Ob­
sen•er 
Bengal Bouts tickets will go on sale on Friday and Saturday evenings in both the North and South Dining Halls. Proceeds will go to charity. The Bouts start on Sunday, Feb. 20, and continue next Wednesday. The finals will be held on Sunday, February 2S. -The Obsen•er 
Open volleyball captains have a mandatory 
meeting on Monday, Feb 21, at -J:OO in the ACC Auditorium. All ~2 teams are expected to be represented. -The OfJserz•er 
The Rugby Club will begin practice on Sunday, February 20, at 10:~0 p.m. at Stepan Center. Practices will continue on Tuesday through Thursday at -J: IS at the ACC. -The Observer 
"The sixth man is as important against the Akrons and the Hotstras as it was against South Carolina," said Digger Phelps upon returning to Notre Dame from Pittsburgh yesterday. "We can't afford to let down, and the students can't let the players do that." The next action for the Irish men will be Monday night against the Divi­sion II power from Akron. -The Obserl'er 

Any remaining participants in the men·~ un­
dergrad and men's grad singles rao-1uetball tournament~ ~hould call the NVA ottlce at 2~9-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­ment moving. -The Ohseruer 
The Hockey Blue Line Club will host a ban­
quet in honor of the Notre Dame hockey team. The banquet will be held on Monday, February 2H. at the Century Center. Cost is S I 0.00 for members and Sl2.00 for non-members. Cocktails are served at 6:~0 and the bullet dinner begins at "':~0. Reservation~ mu~t be made by February 21 by calling the hockey oftlce or Thdma lle.~ling at 2~+H2"'9. All students are cordially invited. -The ()fJsen,er 
A busy weekendon the road is on tap ti>r Coach Den­nis Stark's Notre Damt: men's swimming team. Today, the mt:rmen will take part in a triangular meet with Northern Illinois and Illinois­Chicago. Tomorrow afternoon at 2, Bradley will be the opposition. The Irish bring a "'-5 record into the weekend, which is the last t<>r them beti>re the ,\lidwe~t Invitational. -The OfJsen•er 
The Only home actiOn for a Notre Dame team will be hosted by the wrestlers, as Miami, Siena and SW Michigan comt: in for a quadrangular meet. The meet will begin at 2 -The Ohsen1er 
The ND-SMC gymnasts beat the club from Purdue University last weekend as freshman Anne Stubbs won the women's overall competition and classmateJim Ciesel won the floor exercise. This weekend, the club will hold an intrasquad meet at Angela, open to the public, beginning at 2 tomorrow. -The Ohserz•er 
iiBASKETBALL 
EAST St John s 98. Connecticut 78 
SOUTH C1tadel 83. West Carolina 80 East Tennessee State 86. Marshall 82 Old Dom1mon 77. South Alabama 76(ovt.) 
MIDWEST Bradley 82. lnd1ana State 56 lllino1s 91. M1ch1gan 71 
Marquette 68. W1scons1n 62 M1ssoun 74. Kansas 69 Oh10 State 71. Northwes1ern 55 Purdue 61. M1ch1gan State 55 Tulsa 67. Cre1ghton 65 
WEST Bngham Young 69, Colorad!i State 55 Fresno State 77. Cal-Santa Barbara 4 7 Long Beach State 87. Pac1f1c 70 Oregon State 60. Wash1ngton 50 UCLA 99. Stanford 86 Utah State 67. Fullerton State 59 Washmoton State 58. Oregon 55 

CENTRAL COLLEGIATE HOCKEY ASSOCIATION 
w L T GF GA Pet Bowlmg Green 21 4 3 175 98 804 M1ch1gan State 21 7 0 112 69 750 Oh1oState 19 s. 4 135 89 750 M1ch1gan Tech 17 11 0 143 111 607 Northern M1Ch1gan 15 10 3 115 96 589 M1am1 13 14 1 122 120 482 
Ferns State 10 15 3 104 127 411 Notre Dame 10 16 121 157 .393 Western M1ch1gan 9 18 1 93 123 339 M1ch1gan 9 19 0 103 140 321 Lake Supenor 9 19 0 93 121 321 lllinols·Chicago 6 21 78 143 230 
This Week's Games Notre Dame at OhiO State 121 Lake Supenor a1 M1ch1gan (2) M1amr at Bowling Green (2) M1ch1gan Tech vs Northern M1Ch1gan (home and home) Ferns State vs M1Ch1gan State (home and home) Western M1ch1gan at IllinOIS·Chicago J2) 

The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Monday through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. at the Notre Dame offtce, and 12 30 to 3 p.m. at the Satnt Mary's offtce. However. clas­stfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. on the bustness day pnor to tnsertton. All classtfteds must be 
Classifieds prepatd etther tn person or through the mail. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082 
Surplus Jeeps. cars and trucks ava1lable Many sell for under $200 Call 312-743· 1143 Ext 7316 tor rnformatfon on how ro purchase 
Ugly Duckling Rent·A·Car, Friday noon til Monday noon $29.95 includes 150 free miles. Sales tax & insurance extra. Phone Rob for reservations 259­8459. 
TYPING Jack1e Boggs 684-8793 
LYONS HALL FOODSALES DELIVERS FRESH THICK CRUST PIZZA TO All OF SOUTH QUAD. PRICES CAN'T BE BEAT. CALL x1853 
Surplus Jeeps. cars and trucks available Many sell for under $200 Call 312-742­1143 Ext 7316 for 1nformatron on how to purchase 
TYPING WANTED 277-8534 6-t 0 PM M· 
F. ALL DAY WKNDS 
CAMPUS MINISTRY WEEKEND RETREAT Solitude&Commumty Sr Judith Ann Beett1e & Ms Mary Ann Roemer Feb 25-27/ Lake Mrch1gan House Reservations 239-5242 
LOST/FOUND 
lost gold se1ko quartz watch poss1bly left m locker room at the Rock on 2/4/83 found. pleasecall K1m at 277-7401 
Lost Reward Burgundy purse & wallet Lost at Otllon Hall Fnday. 11 Last seen rn Food Sales Please return my license. school 1 d . & ptctures are rn there Call 284-5t81 Thank you 
LOST ND CLASS RING('83). NAME INSIDE. BLUE STOME. LOST POSSIB­LY AT SMC(MOREAU-O'LAUGHLIN HALL). LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND OF 1/28-1/30. BIG REWARD$$$ OF­FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO PLEASE CALL 283-3346 
LOST Pulsar Portable ALARM CLOCK. Digital, Gold tone With tlue face. FRIDAY. JANUARY 27 111 the ENG AUDITORIUM II! PLEASE call CHARLES at x1496 THANKS!!! 
To the person who removed my blue Or­ganic Chemtstry notebook from the South D1mng Hall on Fnc.ay. Feb 1t. between 1 & 1 30pm. I would apprec1ate 1ts 1m­med1ate return Ill be glad to let you bar· row 1t some ttme when I don·t need 1t! My name and number IS on 1t so call me! 
I LOST MY LAUNDRY IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL---IF YOU FIND THEM PLEASE CALL BRENDAN AT 7997 ANYTIME--I HAVENT CHANGED MY UNDER WEAR IN FOUR DAYS!!!I 
FOR RENT 
4 bdrm lurn1shed house. near campus On Notre Dame Ave Good cond1110n 9 mo lease $335 per mo Call 684-0933 (local call) 
House 4 bedroom. near ND. $290per mo Fall or summer No ut11ilies Phone (319) 322·8735 Patty 
Sem1-Furn 2BdRm Apt near ND. Ut11ilies Pd Less Gas Ph 272-0261 ' 
FURN 2 BDR POSS 3 AVAIL IMMED NEAR ND CALL 233· 7631 
WANTED! ROOMMATE TO SHARE APT AT CAMPUS VI6W CALL 283­83270R277-1708 
WANTED 
NEED RIDE TO NEW JERSEY FOR · SPRING BREAK CALL DAN 1487 OR JOHN 1247 OR CARLOS t 502 
GOING TO IOWA on the weekend ol March 5-6??? l need a nde to and from e1ther Iowa C1ty. Debuque. Davenport. or Cedar Rap1ds Call LISA at 8880 
GOING TO ILLINOIS THIS 
WEEKEND??? I need a nde to e1ther 
Peona or Normal. Ill th1s Fnday. 2-18. returmng on Sunday Call KEN at 8762 
Need nde to Tampa or Sarasota. Flonda area tor Spnng break W1ll share usual ex­penses Call M1ke 1104_ 
Need nde to St LOUIS 3/9 or 311 0 Call Susanne 284-4109 
Need Rrde for two to DAYTON OHIO for next weekend. Feb 25-27 Please call Carne, 7809 THANKS' 
FOR SALE 
USED. OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY­JEFFERSON INTERSECTION 
MOVING SALE.SOFA.LOVE SEAT.COFFEE TABLE.DESK.TABLE&CHAIRS.TWIN 
BEDS.MATTRES ETC CALL 277-4977 
EVENINGS OR WEEKENDS 
TICKETS 
I HATE REO SPEEDWAGON TOO BUT I WOULD LIKE TO GO TO THE CON­CERT ANYWAY AND I NEED A TICKET CALL3601 
Need DePaul t1ckets Will pay $$$ call Mark 8919 
PERSONALS 
JUGGLER The Juggler ts now accepting ftCiton. poetry. essays photography. graphics. etc for the Spnng 1983 1ssue Submis­Sions should be turned m at the Engltsh Off1ce .309 0 Shag (Juggler mailbox) 
Ann Raney, 
Happy Birthday lo the SMC party animal! You really know how to "do it up" New York stylet Hope to see you this weekend.... 
.loe 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ALISON And may tne best oliuck tallow you and Nancy. the two sweetest gtrls I know. throughout th1s year and on tnto bonny old London town next year 
Need Rtde To Connecticut For Spnng Break Wrll Share Usual Please Call Dan at6824 
GET READY FOR SOME ROCK N FUN 
THE ROOMS THE KINETICS AND PSYCHO CAPONES FROM CHICAGO COMING SOON 
To those of you who would begrudge us. remember We are stay1ng at The Hotel Higgy, rn the lovely Chica Suite. 
Any comments? 
Ryan and Joe 
Please Need nde to DETROIT area tor spnng break W11/ share usual Call Pam x3874 
Heading South for break? Why not help a poor ATLANTA g•rl go home for break Call Mary at 4633 
On Apnl 9 1865, the Nortti and South was reumted On Feb t 9 1982 the North and South was aga1n un1ted Happy Ann1ver· sary. Chnsty Sm1th & Jack Moran 
Love. US 
To my w1ld-eyed Southern Boy Happy 2/19 Love you. CBS 
Fourth Floor Howard I m Still lost ETs Soster 
HEY GIRLS' Open new DOORS to your soc1al life ViSit the MORRISON HOTEL at 129Zahm For reservaltons. call8905 Dear Pnnce Charmtng alias Gorgeous Green Eyes, W1lkommen! lch L1ebe D1ch! Love. Your Lrttle Girl 

NED IV NED IV NED IV NED IV 
Rtders needed to Madison or Milwaukee THIS weekend The usual Call Tom at 287-7306 
Boston 
Need nde to Boston on Fn or Sat March 25 or 26 (That s the weeke.nd aller spnng break ) Willing to share cost et al Call Jeb at 8641 Thanks 
NEED RIDE TO DETROIT AREA FEB 18 CALl MARY 8800 THANKS 
ATTN: All FARLEY WOMEN Ill Remember to vote on Tues. Feb 22! Remember to support the leadership backed by EXPERIENCE, DEDICATION, & REALISTIC IDEASfll Remember to elect MARY BETH WACKOWSKI-President MAUREEN MCGILLIS -Vice-President 
beach party Fn 1 t pm. 835 nd apts 1-C. sun. sand. fun ! 
kknow tl you re headed that way Please call Ke1th at 8857 
JLA 

Three down. one to go Records were 
made to be broken F1rsl mme. fhen 
maybe one day yours I love you JR 
TOM MURPHY. HAVE FUN AT THE REO CONCERT ON SATURDAYII 
Attention' There Will be a post-Valenline s party ON the shuttle ton,ght'! BY 0 B and come JOin the party on wheels 1 
STINKFJSH & BUBBLES. 
LOOKING FORWARD TO A GREAT 
WEEKEND' LOVE. 
MOM ·Your b1ggest fan 
MARYT 

Welcome to sunny SOUTH BEND! 
How does rt compare to BERKELEY? Ill 
be cheenng for you . Monday at SUL· 
LIVAN AWARD DINNER' Instead of 
crashtng thiS year. Ill be sttttng at the front 
center table' They say the thrrd t1me IS a 
charm Just remember. you II always be a 
wmnerto mel Love. 
Your btg s1ster. 
Moe 

P S Who IS Phil Mahre anyway? 
HEY DOMER FROM GRACE WHAT HAPPENED TO THE TUNES. TUNES. TUNES? 
Today IS KEN MUELLERS 8th birthday Call him and w1sh the shortest little k1d on campus a Happy Birthday' 1615 P S I was 1n th1rd grade once too Ken 
Dear Domer, thank you for the flowers I 
hope one day you w111 remove your ve1l of 
secrecy so that I can express my ap­
prec1at1on D B 
Its the Bones birthday tomorrow The b1g 20 Happy Birthday. you crazy CalifOr· man you 
Mark Boenntghausen IS 20-years-old today He s 5 10 tall w1th a wavy stack of curl dark brown ha1r He san Arts and Let­ters maJor He knows about computers What a guy' 
I hate you guys! 

ATLANTANS OR THOSE OF THE SURROUNDING AREAII HOW ABOUT GIVING A HOMESICK FRESHMAN A RIDE TO, AND PROBABLY FROM. THAT GREAT CITY FOR SPRING BREAK WILL PAY USUALII CALL REGGIE AT x142311 
HEY ANGIE C. IN P.E.! DID I EVER TELL YOU I THINK YOU'RE GORGEOUS!! 
YOUR FAVORITE ADMIRER! 

Ride needed. Are you com1ng back from or through At­lanta after spnng break? Are you comtng back early say. on Fnday. March 18? I need a nde. then Gotto take GMArs Call Jeb at 8641 Thanks 
CONGRATULATIONS. MIKE MAGGIO ! YOU RE A GENTLEMAN AND A SCHOLAR! THIS AD COMES TO YOU COURTESY OF THE ORGANIZED FRIENDS AND ADMIRERS OF MIKE MAGGIO. LTD 
ANOTHER PROUD CHAPTER IN A FINE TRADITION--DIANNE MCBRIEN IS A MERIT FINALIST! CONGRATULA­TIONS AND GOOD LUCK ON BAREFOOT IN THE PARK LOVE. MARCY AND VICKY 
For sale: REO Speeriwagon ticket ­row 131ft Call Cindy at x2948. 
Happy B~rthday. Mark• 

Mark. tell the aud1ence your teet1ngs today. the day before your birthday 
Gawd Any exerting plans? 1 atn t tel­ling you Go•ng anywhere? I m gettmg the hell out at Dodge What do you th1nk of Am 328 Alumn1? I hate those guys 
Q What IS unsqwshable. has extreme en­durance and can Withstand a Ranger & a Hawaiian? Huh, Lisa & Mary? 
Dear Mom and Dad· Mr and Mrs Watz WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME We hope that you have a fantastic VISit and enJOY Jun1or Parents Weekend wtth Cra1g! 
Hr Mom and Dad 
H1 Mr and Mrs Crtmtnskt H1 Mr and Mrs Weyenberg Ht Mr and Mrs Sztlvas H1 Mr and Mrs Straub Jeann1e 0 SISler to Walt beloved daughter of Mane and Walter Welcome to Notre Dame. we ve all been wattmg to see the better half of the 0 Connor fam1ly I dreamed of Jeannte Wtlh long blonde hatr bu tnstead we got Wall Lushes from Grace 
REO would like to extend a warm 
welcome to all planntng to attend our 
show thts weekend To all. thatts. except 
the arkre/druggre on the fourth floor ot 
Zahm Anyone who likes Bruce 
Sprtngsteen IS no fan of ours -K Cromn 
SOPHOMORE CLASS PARTY WEEKEND at GIUSEPPE S Fn . Feb t8 9-t $3-Grrls. $4-Guys MUSIC.DANCING.AND FUN' Lo~e!ed at 713 East LaSalle Ave 
Tomorrow IS Jeanne Anselman s birthday! Tomorrow IS JEANNE AN SELMAN S BIRTHDAYII Happy 20th Jam-woman!! 
Ammo. Here s to a happy 20th Love. Your only fnends 
Zeke Happy Belated 20th Brrthdayll It 
was mce seetng you aga1n Saturday 
Ntght Keep 1n touch I 
Your fellow town1e from SMC 
SANDI. SANDI. SANDI" 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY'! 
HAPPY 20TH BJRTHDAYII 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAYII 
Thanks tor all the sm11es and support you ve giVen us all--tt s always ntce to know someone who cares and under­stands 15 there" So on your birthday 
tomorrow do what YOU want and nave the good t1me you deserve!! HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY BIRTHDAYII 
LOVE. 
Megan. Mary. Linda. 
and Laune 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY 
ANITA MALLAVARAPU'" 
YOUR FRIEND. 
JOHN 
P1ano Lady 
Play us a song you re the p1ano lady. Play us a song--all ngnt. were all tn the mood for some partytng So let s get dow•, ton1ght Today s your birhday. swe~t Lynn. SIMBA wtll be there to s1n We chertsh your love and affeCtion. II causes our lmmedtate----• 11 
Love. The D T Drrt1es 
Jeannte 0 SISler to Walt beloved daughter 
of Mane and Walter Welcome to Notre 
Dame. we ve all been watllng to see the 
better nail of the 0 Connor tam1ly 1 dreamed of Jeann1e wtlh long blonde hatr bu mstead we got Walt Lushes from Grace 


The Observer Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 15 
Now hoops? 
Commish moves to avert strike 

NEW YORK ( AP) -The National 
Basketball Association, threatened 
with a possible walkout by its 
players on April 1, said Thursday it 
was hopeful the union will agree to a 
revenue-sharing plan among teams 
"to help ensure the stability of the 
league." ­
"We think a strike would do great harm to the sport," said a spokesman for Commissioner Larry O'Brien af­ter Larry Fleisher, the union's general counsel, set the deadline. 
"lfwe don't have an agreement by then," Fleisher said, "the players will take all the necessary action, includ­ing a strike, to protect the best inter­ests ofall the players." 
The NBA spokesman, who 
declined to be identified, noted that 
NBA players average S246,000 a 
year, while the 23 teams have lost 
more than S700,000 a year. 
"We could have had a basic agree­
ment with a cost-of-living clause in­
cluded," the spokesman said, "but 
the decision was made early on to tie 
salaries to team revenues to help 
ensure the stability ofthe league." 
O'Brien admitted for the first time 
Wednesday that the severity of the 
league's financial difficulties might 
cause some franchises to fold, be 
sold or be merged. 
He did not identity the teams, but 
Cleveland. Indiana, Utah and San 
Diego are believed to be in the most 
jeopardy. 
In an effort to reduce player costs, 
the NBA proposes to limit each 
team's player payroll to ap­
proximately S4 million a season. 
The league then would create a 
fund, in addition to individual 
salaries that would be financed by a 
fixed percentage of NBA revenues, 
and would be disbursed to the 
players in accordance to a formula 
established by the union. 
"The owners are talking about 
how they're going out of business 
and that we are going to give back a 
lot to save the league," Fleisher said. 
"We are not going to do that. They 
are still demanding to take away vir­
tually all of the benefits won by the 
in ttauczl 

$209 
COMPLETE 
Spring break in 
DAYTONA-March 12-1g 
COMPLETE PACKAGE INCLUDES: *sEVEN NIGHTS LODGING AT THE INN -lOCATED ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF ALL ROOMS OCEAN ~! *ROUND TRIP TRANSPORTATION VIA 
COACH, *FULL PROGRAM OF PARTIES AND *FREE SOUVENIR CANVAS SPORT BAG, *WELCOME PARTY WITH FREE BEER. *sERVICES OF OUR PROFESSIONAL 
*MANY OTHER FEATURES! 
NO HIDDEN CHARGES~! 

Contact: CHRISJ ELLEN \ OR t AT 284-5181 
players over I 5 years of collective bargaining." 
The NBA spokesman said Fleisher had seemed receptive toward the revenue-sharing plan after being provided with the league's financial data, "but now it seems he has a credibility problem." 
Fleisher said the league was "demanding that the system of free agency agreed upon in the 19'6 Os­
car  Robertson  antitrust  suit  be  
modified."  
The  Robertson  settlement  es­ 

tablished the right of first refusal, in which a free agent can negotinte 
Seeds advance in Memphis tennis 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) -Third­
seeded Gene Mayer dropped the 
first set before steamrolling his way 
over Henri LeConte of France yes­
terday in the third round of the 
S315,000 U.S. National Indoor Ten­
nis Championships. 
Also advancirrg was the No. 4 seed, France's Yannick Noah, who recovered from a leg injury to defeat Buster Mottram of England. 
Mayer eliminated LeConte 1-6, 6­
0, 6-0, while Noah stopped Mottram 
7-5,6-2. 
Top-seeded Jimmy Connors met No. I 5 Raul Ramirez of Mexico in a night match. 
In other early matches, No. H Eliot Teltscher ousted Tomas Smid of Czechoslovakia 6-.f, 6-0; No.I 0 Brian Gttfried toppled Fritz Buehn­ing 5-', 6-3. 6-4, and No. 11 Brian Teacher advanced when Chip Hooper was torced to retire with tendinitis of the left knee. 
Teacher was leading ..,-6, +3 
when Hooper, who had his knee 
bandaged_ earlier in the second set, 
had to quit. 
The hard-hitting LeConte, a mem­
ber of the French. Davis Cup team, 
completely dominated Mayer in the 
with every team in the league and 
then present the best offer to his tor­
mer club. 
The old club has I 5 days to match the oft'er or allow the player to leave. But under the owners' plan, any club that had a payroll above the limit would he prohibited from signing a free agent, thus restricting the mobility and bargaining power of a player not under contract. 
Among the union's demands are t1rst-class air travel, the elimination of funding for pension plans, severance-pay programs, life, medi­cal and health insurance. 
opening set, with Maver onlv able to 
hold serve in the sec~nd ga1~e. 
Mayer, however, made adjust­ments, and LeConte's game tdl apart. Where he couldn't miss in the t1rst set. the 19-year-old Frenchman 
couldn't find the court in the next two sets. 
"I was playing him just standard on his serve in the tlrst set, and he was passing me on the torehan side and passing me on the backhand side," said Mayer, who also defeated LeConte in the Davis Cup tlnals in November in Grenoble, France, as the United States retained its title. "After a while, I started gambling on his serve, guessing which side he was going to serve to." 
Noah, the star of the French Davis Cup squad, suft'ered tendinitis in his left leg just above the knee on Wed­nesday, necessitating a cortisone in­jection. But the injury caused him no problems yesterday as he ad­vanced to the quartertlnals. 
Mottram, who upset Noah in the second roundere last year. took a S--t lead in the first set before Noah ripped oft· the next three games to take the lead. Noah then broke his opponent in the frst and fifth games en route to his victory. 


The Irish runners will take a giant step toward the IC4A 's and nationals later this season wben they take part in tbe Central Col­legiate Conference meet in Kalamazoo beginning todav. Dean Su/­lil'an assesses Irish chances on the back page. (Ph~ to bJ' Scott 
&~~ . 
COLLEy·s SPORTSWEAR 
1813 S. Ironwood, South Bend 219·234·6149 
"Quality work for business, club, team, special event, promotion, fraternity, or sor­ority." 
Discounts on quantitie-s 
tN 

I,---------------~\ 
I invites you to enjoy one ofour I 
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I1  We/come  I1  
1  Junior  1  
1  Parents  I  
II  The Colonial Pancake House  II  

I many breakfast specialties: I
I I
OVENBAKEDAPPLEPANCAKES AND OMELETTES! 1
iI ··s·i**OFF·:~ i 
Iourfamous apple pancakes I 
1Good through 1/23 Weu!Je'lt8MIIl I 
I ************************** I I U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland I \ open 6:30am 7days a week I 
~---------------~ 

LW.W. 
MishLW.W. S.B. 
I' T
R.R. 
a 
:I 
:1! 
0 
0 
t:l. 
0 
..< ::!. 
* 
Ironwood Villas:'Soul 


---------------------·---------·---··--------·---------------·---·--·--·--· The ObSt:rver Friday. February 18, 1983 page 16 
King slates boxing title doubleheader 

NEW YORK ( AP) -Larry Holmes and Michael Dokes will defend their shares of boxing's biggest title May 20 in a unique doubleheader, the tirst time both halves of the heavyweight crown go up for grabs on the same card. 

.,. Holmes, the World Boxing Coun­cil champion. will fight Tim Wit­herspoon in a 12-round bout. the new length mandated by the WBC. And in a dilferent city, Dokes, who won the World Boxing Association title in a controversial one-round hout Dec. I 0, is giving former champ l\1ike Weaver a rematch. That tight is scheduled for I 5 rounds. Holmes said he would demand a I 5­rounder. too. Among the sites under considera­tion for the tights and companion bouts are Reno and Las Vegas, Nev., Miami, Seattle, Anchorage, Alaska, and East Rutherford, N.J. Promoter
The Notre Dame wrestlers will be the onlv Irish Weekend, as they host a quadrangular meet at the 
Don King, announcing the tights at a
squad in action at home this junior P;trents' Pit tomorrow afternoon. (Photo by Scott Bower) 

********************************* 




********************************* 
boisterous brunch and news con· 
ference Thursday, would not reveal 
the amount ofthe purses. 
Preceding Holmes-Witherspoon will be Greg Page vs. Renaldo Snipes in what King called an "elimination bout" for the U.S. Boxing Associa­tion heavyweight title and a shot at the WBC crown. Dokes-Weaver will be preceded by Ossie Ocao;io defending his WBA cruiserweight title against Randy Stephens. 
The tights will be shown on closed-circuit television in theaters and on home T\is equipped with special boxes to unscramble the satellite transmission. They are the tlrst offering of Reserved Seat Video Productions. a joint venture of ABC video Enterprises and ESPN, the all­sports network. The tights may also be shown on home TV on a tape­delayed basis. 
"Two at the scene and one on the screen," is how King described the two-city set-up, each receiving the other's heavyweight title bout. 
Holmes, unbeaten in 41 pro bouts with .) I knockouts, was unques­tionably the co-star of the brunch, along with the typically flamboyant King. 
Non-winner grabs early lead in golf 
LA JOLLA. Calif. ( AP) -Jon Chaf. fee, a non-winner on the tour, fired a "'-under-par 65 ti>r the early lead in the tlrst round of the lsuzu-Andy Williams San Diego Open yesterday. 
Chalft·e, playing on Torrey Pines' Jess demanding North Course. sank a I 5-foot putt on his last hole for his second eagle of the dav. 
Scott Simpson tlnished six under, and Boh Gilder was live under at 6"'. 
Bruce Fleisher and Tom Jenkins were six under and still on the course. 
Lon llinkle, one of the early tinis­hers on the South Course, had a ·J· under 6H. 
Chaffee, a third-year pro who currently ranks I SOth on the money list with SH2"'. played the hack nine first, tlnbhing with an eagle after putting a J-iron shot within three feet. 
Chaffee, 2"' and playing in San 
Diego for the tlrst time. completed 
the three par-5~ in 6-under-par. 
Ben Crenshaw, playing on tht· more demanding South Course. made the turn in .)2. Crenshaw. who wa~ third in the Hawaiian Open la~t week. was helped hy four hirdies. 
Torn Watson. who is bidding. to become the tlrst three-time winner at San Diego, had an even-par 72 on the tought·r South Cour~e. 
W'atson, saying his touch wao; mis­
sig, said slow green~ and occasional 
crosswinds kept him from getting 
started. 
Interested in running for 1983-1984 
OFF­CAMPUS Commissioner 
call OBUD at 239-6283 for info (must be iving OC next 
year) 

The Observer Loss to Sabres 
Streak breaker no big deal: Peeters 
BOSTON ( AP) -Pete Peeters didn't make a big deal about his un­beaten streak while it was alive, and he didn't make a big deal about it at~ 
ter it died. For Boston's brilliant goalie, life goes on with few changes. 
'It's not a great disap­pointment. It's not something that's going to set me on a down­fall... I'm happy with my teammates.' 
The Sabres heat the Bruins in Buf­falo Wednesday night, .3-I, ending Peeters' streak at ~I games. That's one less than the National Hockey League record held hy Gerry Cheevers, now Boston's coach. 
But Peeters still likes his 
teammates, will stick to his roving 
style of goaltending, doesn't plan to 
let the loss get him down and 
remains the NHL's most successful 
goalie. 
"It's not a great disappointment," he said. "It's not something that's going to set me on a downfall ... I'm happy with my teammates because I really believe they gave it all they had." 
It was Nov. II when Peeters previously tasted defeat, losing 3-2 to Quebec. He was 26-0-5 during the streak, when his goals-against average was 1.94. For the season, he 
• • • Hoops 
continuedfrom page 18 
Harper led the charge, gathering 16 second halfpoints, including a string of eight consecutive points midway through the period. 
Illinois' point total was its highest of the Big Ten season, besting the H7 points collected against the Wol­verines at Ann ArborJanuary 29. 
Other Illinois scorers in double tlgures were Efrem Winters with 19 points, Doug Altenberger with I 5 and Anthony Welch with 12. Michi­gan's leading scorer was sophomore guard Eric Turner with 2.3 poinn.. Richard Reliford added II for the Wolverines. 
Marquette 68, Wis. 62 
MADISON, Wis. ( AP) -Glenn 
Rivers scored II of his I9 points in 
the second half yesterday as Mar­
quette University squeaked to a 68­
62 nonconference basketball 
victory over underdog Wisconsin. 
Rivers hit two free throws to give 
\1arquette ( 1'-6) a 5-t-"-1..., with 5:0'5 
to play. But Brad Sellers, scoring 21 
points, hit three free throws to boost 
the Badgers (...,_I "-1) to within four 
points. 
Terry Trotter hit two free throws for a '56-'50 Marquette lead. Wiscon­sin freshman guard Rick Olson scored two baskets to close the mar­gin to '56-'5"-1 with .3:03 remaining. 
Rivers and Olson traded baskets. and Terry Reason scored his tlrst tleld goal of the game for the War­riors as Marquette took a 60-'56lead. 
Sellers hit his two free throws, but Trotter and Reason scored two layups to give the Warriors some breathing room. 
Terrell Schlundt seored 16 of his 
19 points in the tlrst half to lead Mar­
quette to a _>,2-26 halftime ad­
vantage. 
Cory Blackwell had 21 points for 
the Badgers bet<>re fouling out with 
_>,:"-12 left in the contest. 
Wisconsin led H-6 as Blackwell 
scored six points. Schlundt tired 
.\1arquerte to an H-2 spurt for a I+ I 0 
lead. 
leads the league with a 2. I 5 goals­
against mark and seven shutouts. 
"Tonight's game doesn't make 
him a had goalie. He's still the 
premier goalie in the game of hock­
e,·," Cheevers, who was eager to Jose 
his own record. said Wednesday 
night. 
Peeters reached that status by 
resuming his wanderings from the 
cage after three years in Philadel­phia, where coaches restricted him from leaving the net to chase pucks. 
Against Buffalo, one such journey helped snap Boston's unbeaten streak at l '5-0-2. 
Peeters skated to the face-oil circle to his right for a puck bounc­ing off the boards. It eluded him, and Phil Housley scored before Peeters could return to his cage. It made the score 2-0 with "-1.3 seconds gone in the tina! period. 
"I thought it was going to bounce 
toward me and it bounced away 
from me, so I had to really scramble 
to get to it," Peeters said. "I did get to 
it and chopped it away to the wing 
and we lost possession there, and by 
then I was so far out of the net that I 
could only keep on playing and hope 
he misses." 
But Peeters isn't about to chain 
himselfto the net posts. 
"Earlier, in the tlrst period, I was 
roaming the net and taking com­
plete control ofthe game behind the 
net, getting us out of situations 
where we were in trouble. So, 
there's pluses to it and minuses to it, 
but I think the pluses outweigh the 
minuses." he said. 
After the game, Peeters smiled and chatted more than his downcast teammates. 
The streak "meant more to them than it did to me," he said after being surrounded bv congratulatory Bruins after Buffalo scored with I I seconds to play. 
Duke: no comment on Knight's beef 
CHICAGO (AP) -Big Ten Com­missioner Wayne Duke, said yester­day he had no comments on any incidents involving Indiana Coach Bobby Knight following the Hoosiers' SH S7 loss to Iowa Wed­nesday night. 
Knight supposedly made some remarks to Duke, who was attending the game, about the oftkiating during the tlnai minute of the game. 
"I talked to Coach Knight at some length after the game and I also talked to Coach (Lute) Olson (Iowa) after the game. I always talk to the coaches about the aspect of the game and the aspect of the of-. ficiating. But I have no additional comments to make," said Duke who was reached by phone in In­dianapolis where he was attending a meeting. 


acceptingapplicationsfor the following positions · 
Managing editor Business tnanager 
Applicationsare due in The Observeroffices by 5 p .m Monday, February 21. 

<( ::D 
c )> 
<( 
3: 
~ )>
Tuesday; February 22
<( c
a: -An Experience You'll Never Forget-)> 
<( ::D 
c )>
It's M*A*S*H*
<C 3: 
~ )> 
<( NITE c
a: )> 
at Daniel's Den Lounge <( ::D 
c ......................... )> 
<( 
3: ~ Assorted gifts and cash prizes for the most )> <( original MASH uniforms c
a: )> 
75~ glass of beer; $3.00 a pitcherplus all your other <( favorite drinks 
::D 
c Dance to the fantastic sound of "the Phoenix )> <( Band" from 9:30 to 2:00AM NO COVER CHARGE 
3: 
~ )> 
<( c
a: )> 
vavwv~ vavwv~ vavwv~ 


Ohio State's Andl' Broun (left) and ,Votre Dame's Kirt Bjork ( rip,bt) fight for the puck in the December series between the teams. This u•eekend u·i/1 see the rematch as both clubs are pia}'inp, their best hockey ofthe year. Ed Domansky takes a look at the rematch on tbe back pap,e. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 
r----------------,I 
at ffiacri's Deli II 75centHeineken Night I 
I ITues. Feb 22 6 pm -close
I*If you don't like Heineken, Don't come. I 
I (located behind Jeremiah Sweeney's) ..II 

Restaurant and lounge 
Open Sunday to serve your favorite cocktails with live entertainment and dancing 
starting at 8 PM Sunday 
1516 N. Ironwood . just east of campus Mon-Sat 11 am-1 am Sun 4pm·12:30am 
Your Host: Ron DeLaere, N.D. '64 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 

SPRING BREAK ~~DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH II • 20, 1983 
A rtiUif~mrnll b_.. 
ECHO TRAVEL. /'II( 
MCJ525'11F 
SIX PER ROO.W TRIP JNCLVDES 
• R••und ITIJI motnr.:••<~ch tran,rurtatlon v.J modern hi(lh'tuy cu.~.,·ht"' toiJavtona Beach.l-lond&lca\'Lnl Fnda~. Mu(;h I I. 
• Snt!n nzllhh<lr.:l.:ni'I''TitJdatnm:~o•t tht"tliCIIlRJ!: Plillll Hocclo!
$185 

D•~tonot ~ach I o~tt"dat600SonhAtlanuc Ave .ttuthr mo\t drmandcd hptel on the stup at that t1me 
• A trul) great ~chcduk of a,;UvttltS mdud1ng our famous Jl•lul dtck parllt\ .1.nd belly nop conte\1 
FOl R PER R00.\1 • Optmnal e'cunwn, ""ailablc to Da§nc:y World. Epcot. and >e\Ctlll"thc:rattrar.:ti<Ln!o 
• 'umcrnu~ har and re~taurant d!\.:ounh. 11 
!"hc 'C'f\n:e~ ot fullumc tra\·cJ rtprt§Cntauves
$199 

II "'-llli&U\iiOdJI.ratuiiiCS 
• (iu;uo~ntc:ed kllchc:nt'llt or occanfronl a'tatlabk at Jom&ll 
addi!JOnl!l charge 14 per ronm onl)) 
A QCALITYTRIP·A LOWPRICE-A GREATTIME 
Ih~ J>J.u,, lintd. 1Mi1\!:l.l,n~ht m the: m•ddlc: ot 'ttu: ,mp. •~ dehmtc:ly the place: to be dunna .pnn,\!. hn:.t~ ·\\~ an~•'""' ~~ohu ha' hecon to l>a~tona 1 he hou:t ha) a pool, btg parey declr., rnl.tUT.tnl 1uur h,u\. ~nlm I\. illT cund1tmnc:d runm~ and plenty or acl!\IJUC:s. Ptcturcsarc .n.uldhk ~h.:rc: ~··u \1,\!.11 ur Our m .. t.n l'Oache, iiUC nothing but the hiJhCSI quality htshway ''"Khc\ "l'o1l\n !!1\C: \ uu mnrc: l'"lrd' 11o11h our 1r1p than anyone else Don't blow 11 and aoon ,, lo~~o.:-t 4llo1llt~ tnp I.A.\1 H.AR OJ f.R 8,(}()() PEOPLE ENJOt'ED THIS TRIP. 
SIGN l"P NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.-FRI. 10 AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 
..... 
; 
.,'' 
.. 
., 
. ~ 
~-­

~-----------------~~--~
r-------------.:-----. 
The Observer Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 18 
..... 

Dan Duff(22) takes a rare shot from the field in this photo. It wasn't his shootingfrom thefloor, buthis marksmanshipfrom the chari~y stripe when it counted that helped Notre Dame down Pitt, 60-54, Wednesday night. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
BIOLOGICAL/PHYSICAL SCIENCES ... 
You're Needed AIIOverthe World. 
Ask Peace Corps volunteers why they ore using their Science major, minor, or aptitude in health clinics and classrooms in Malaysia. Why do they use them in fish pond culture projects and experimental forms in Western Samoa? They'll tell you their ingenuity and flexibility ore as important as their degrees. Ask them why Peace Corps is the roughest job you'll ever love. 
Seniors can picl' up an aunlication in advance in the Placement office for interviews Feb 22 & 23. 
PEACE CORPS 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -Darren 
Daye scored 18 points and Brad 
Wright added 15 to lead No. 10 
UCLA to a 99-86 Pacific I 0 Con­
ference victory over -stanford last 
night at Pauley Pavillion. 

The Bruins, who improved their 
record to 18-3 on the season and I 0­
1 in the Pac-1 0, displayed a balanced 
attack with seven players scoring in 
double figures. Kenny Fields and 
Rod Foster had 14 apiece, and Ralph 
Jackson, Michael Holton and Gary 
Maloncon scored I 0 each. 

Keith Jones and Hans Wichary 
ly for the Cardinal, which dropped 
to .f-7 in Pac-1 0 play an 12-9 on the season. 
UCLA led 21-18 after 13 minutes of play and then outscored Stanti.>rd 14-6 in the next four minutes to take a 35-24 lead. 
UCLA led 43-3'1 at the half hut Stanford crept to within five at 4 7-'-12 with 17 minutes remaining. UCLA then went on a 17-4 scoring spurt to take a 64-46 ead. Stanford rallied again and got to within six points at 85-79 with two minutes to go, but UCLA pulled away for good. 
Stanford continued its recored of 
having never defeated UCLA in 
Pauley Pavilion and has not beaten 
the Bruins in Los Angeles since 
1952. 

UCLA leads the overall series with 
Stanford I 0 I-65. 

Purdue 61, Mich. St. 55 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) ­Center Russell Cross scored 31 points and outscored Michigan State 7-1 during a stretch in the closing four minutes last night as Purdue defeated the Spartans 61-55 in a Big Ten Conference college basketball game. 
With the Boilermakers ahead 52­
51, Cross hit two free throws to give 
Purdue a 54-51 margin with 3:48 
remaining. He added another free 
throw with I:23 left to increase the 
margin to 55-51. 
College roundup 

Daye's 18 leads UCLA to victory 
After a free throw by Michigan State's Derek Perry made it 55-52 with I:08 left, Cross converted on slam dunks at the 46-second mark and again 20 seconds later to give Purdue a 59-52 edge. 
Michigan State closed to within 59-55 on a free throw by Scott Skiles and a rebound basket by Ralph Walker at the 22-second mark. But Steve Reid canned two more free throws in the closing seconds to ice the win for Purdue. 
The Boilermakers are now 16-6 overall and 7-5 in the conference. two games behind front-running In­diana. State slipped to I 1-10 and 'l-7 in the league. 
Cross, who hit I I of 12 from the 
field and 9 of 13 from the foul line, 
was the only Purdue player to finish 
in double figures. Reid added eight. 
Skiles, who led Plymouth High 
School to the Indiana boys high 
school basketball title last year, 
topped Michigan State with 14 
points. He connected on three 
three-point field goals. 

Kevin Willis added 12 for the 
Spartans and Sam Vincent, who was 
averaging 16.8 points per game, was 
limited to I 0. 

Michigan State led 32-31 at halftime. There were five lead changes in first four minutes of second half. 
Purdue took the lead for good at 
45-43 with 13 minutes left when 
Cross scored off a rebound. 

The Boilermakers enjoyed a 15-7 
advantage after five minutes of play, 
but Michigan State ran off a 10-2 
burst to tie the score at 17. The 
remainder of the half saw the Spar­
tans fight their way back. 

They went to the lockerroom 
ahead after Patrick Ford canned two 
free throws with 23 seconds left in 
the opening half. 
Ohio St. 71, N. U. 55 

COLUMBUS, Ohto (AP) Twentieth-ranked Ohio State, led by Tony Campbell's 21 points, pulled away late in the second half last night to beat Northwestern 71-55 and move within one game of In­diana, the Big Ten Conference bas­ketball leader. 
The Buckeyes improved ther 
kague record to 8-o.i and their over­
all mark to 16-6, avenging an earlier 
66-6'1 defeat at Northwestern. 
Campbell, a 6-7 junior forward. 
hit seven of 15 field goal attempts, 
seven straight free throws and col­
lected eight rebounds before 
leaving the game with more than 
five minutes to play and the 
Buckeyes owning a 62-'-12 cushion. 
Jim Stack, whoee three-point play at the buzzer beat Ohio State in their first game this season, led the Wildcats with 21 points. Northwes­tern fell to 5-7 in the league and 14-8 overall. 
Northwestern gave Ohio State a struggle cary in the first half untilJoe Concheck's three-point goal gave the Buckeyes a 9-8 lead. Ohio State built that into a 30-24 halftime lead. 
Illinois 91, Michigan 71 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) -Derek Harper scored 25 points to lead Il­linois to a 91-71 Big Ten Conference victory over Michigan last night. 
The lllini win broke a two-game losing ~treak and boosted their record to 7-5 in the conference and 17-8 overalL Illinois now is tied for third place in the Big Ten. 
The Wolverine loss was their sixth in the last seven games and dropped their record to 3-8 in the Big Ten and 12-9 for the season. 
Illinois scorched the nets for the first 10 minutes of the game, jum­ping off to a 16-4 lead with 13:29 to go and later, a 26-10 advantage halfway through the first period. But Michigan whittled away at the lead and reduced it to 36-31 at halftime. 
The Illini resumed their hot shooting in the second half, pushing their lead to 77-51 with 3:18 to go. 
See HOOPS, page 17 
Wbt 

:!IDtnle 
lrlnlt 
U. of Notre Dame 
A Browser's 

Come sec us at the ... 
* 
Paradise of

East Bank Emporium Building ~ 
~ Unique Gifts 
•
.E 

0 
Handcrafted Items
~ 
z 
Decorative Aaessories Artwork Toys Games 
CENTURY CENTER 
Something for Everyone Brass Crystal Pewter Dolls 
Across the river 
Nearly one third of our

from Century Center Niles and Jefferson at the Brid e 
gifts are especially made for us by outstanding
HOURS: 10-5:30 M·Thurs 

artists and craftsmen 10·9 Fri-Sat 219·232-8488 from every state. 
-----·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
.J 
IheO~Ner======================================= 
Weekend 
Friday, February 18, 1983 -page 19 
Bloom County 

H€Wl MRS. WPCHINO. 1HI5 151Hf, BeACON. WE NEH' A60017 Q00T£ 
H€UO t FROM YW ABOUT 
\ 1HI5 M~fi.NIN0. 
Simon 
Tlf!S IS {1/ffOt :5 tJt/C!r£T. Gin'~ S 1{1/Yf &!C!tET:> RJ..f C'/!lfi?'(IN6 ;5TCIFF TO TilE Sh'OWE..f.S. 
/ 


HI, WltE~£ 
DOWNER.'S AR.E 'ft:M (ji\.QV(1 llS H.ot-1? J'\AO:,f WEST OF Cl\ltA.~O.
\ 
I 
GOOD H€AV£NS...1H£Y 
5TIU.. HAV6N'I 11)UI 11-i/5 YOIJ /Hffi YOVR r.'DRNING? HV58ANI7 ff.U.IN10 

FIK!!IL 50/IP fX;t)Y :Y.Jflf) /IIi'!/~ Bf!8Y 0/1.., 8J18Y R:JWC£R, F~I/IL JOTIM, f/ BUFF-fVt=0 8!1/fl?lTlS. 
SHII~foo (0/Y/JITIONER-I f1NI.5fl· IN6 triNiE, fiNO !lfTEtr·BflTII 
tift/ISH h ) 

WilER.£ M.t YOIA fvJO FR!JH7 
ITS I 

The Daily Crossword 

Berke Breathed 

Jeb Cashin 

... t1N0 WtTH Gl!f'LS, (.()f'1ETI!1E$ IT 15 8£~T NOT TO f/'jf'(. 
I 

Photius 
neusE ME' PLfASE, sur 
HV HOME·TDWN OF 

BAtH~ALOR£' I) .TUSf E'Arr OF C~ICN:tO. SMALL WOt~,£1f? 
AN'IHM, WHE~( Af£ fHE'I 
HIDIN{t rH£ 

WilY OOES 51/f !JR!NG fHI} T TO Tilt 0/fOWtlr :" 
I !'ON T /\NOW. .. 
If 5££11.5 LIKf EVfJNOtJ IS F~OM SOME.PlAct .JUSf 
NEAR C.HICAC.O_I 
ACROSS 23 Jungian 1 Blow one's concerns own horn 25 County 
5 Byzantine Clare Empire capital department 26 Be a spend­
1 0 Strike-thrift breaker 29 Stripling 14 Hebrides 31 Old Nick 
island 34 Lean-tos 15 Western 35 Skate end 16 Fictional 36 Tune 
swamp 37 -Khan denizen 38 Square­
17 Sierra ended cigar Nevada 40 Salofsong road 41 Entertain 
19 Once more richly 20 Improves an 43 Anger article 44 Lake: Sp. 21 Six·-45 Jacques' (guns) brother 
Thursday's. Solution 


Campus 
Friday, Feb 18 
•2:1:; 
p.m. -Seminar , "fracture of Glass and Glass-Ceramic Nuclear Waste Materials," Dr. Jules Routbort, :'>56 Fitzpatrick Hall 

• 
:): 15 p.m. -Workshop, "Interdependence of Regional, National and International Policy Issues," Richard Bartel, 5:'> I O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•:):50 
p.m. -Philosophy Colloquium, "A Moral Assessment ofthe Nuclear Deterrents," Prof. James Sterba, Library Lounge 

•5 
p.m. -Radio Show, Weekend Kickotl, The Sting, WSND-AM 6-1 

•5:15 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7 
and 9:30 p.m. -Film, "Atomic Cafe," Engineering Auditorium, s1 

•·no 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Chan is Missing," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, Par 3 


•9::)0 
p.m. -A Chance to Dance, Chautauqua, 


S1 Saturday, Feb. 19 
•12::)0 
p.m. -Reception, for Junior Parents by the Air Force ROTC, AFROTC Lounge 

•1 
p.m. -Reception, for Junior Parents by the Army ROTC, Library Lounge 

•1 
::'10 p.m. -Wrestling, ND vs Miami University, 'Siena Heights, and Southwestern Michigan, ACC Pit 

•2 
p.m. -Concert, ND jazz Band, Annenberg Auditorium 

•6 
p.m. -Ladies of Notre Dame, Dinner Dance at the Marrott Inn •-:-. 9, II p.m. -Film, "Oh God, Book !," Engineering Auditorium, S I 

•H 
p.m. -Concert, REO Speedwagon, ACC, SII. 50 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, Bob Mavovich and Friends 

Sunday, Feb. 20 

•1: 
IS p.m. -Christo Films, "Valley Curtain," and "Running Fence," Annenberg Auditorium 

•1 
::)0 p.m.-Bengal Mission Bouts, ACC Arena, sI. 50 to S4 

•::50 
p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival, Le('ture. Su~an Sontag, Library Auditorium 

•H: 
IS p.m. -Faculty Organ Recital, Profs. Craig Cramer and Gail Walton, Sacred Heart Church· 

•9 
p.m. -All Funk Show, Carolyn Adams, WSND-AM 6-1 

•Midnite-Alljazz 
Show, Nocture Night flight, \X'SND-I'M HH.9 


The Far Side 

"I don't like this, Wadsworth . . . Bob never should've been allowed out on the dance floor." 
46 Johnny­
47 Former Cleveland Indian 
48 Let up 50 Seethe 52 With35D, 
a John 
Wayne film 55 Usages 59 Improve 60 Frontier 
outpost 62 Killer 
whale 63 Wagon­54 Grasslands 65 Dits and­66 Composer 
Jute 67 WWII craft 
DOWN 1 Stay 2 Capacity 3 Princess­4 Web-footed 
birds 5 Sculptor's 
creation 6 Gen. Arnold 7 Greek 
letters 8 Agreed 9 Fire crime 
10 NASA adjective 
11 Oregon Trail conveyances 12 Antiquer's 

tool 13 Debuts 18 Sidle 22 Opening 24 Wildplum 26 Quay 27 Boring tool 28 John Ford 
epic 30 Penthouse 32 Saw 33 Hose 
material 35 See 52 A 36 A Stooge 38 Dock 
fixture 39 Spheres 42 Interstices 44 Draw poker 
of a kind 46 Newport or 
Tahoe 47 Take in 49 Examines 
closely 51 Title for Macbeth 52 Like tame 
horses 53 Zeus' wife 54 Food holder 56 Summer 
treat 57 -is to say 58 Meeting: 
abbr. 61 Bolivian export 
f-.5nior Bar 
v~ COm€ OUt anb ROCk \VIth th€ €0€R(jy or 

"'?
··­
..
b€tROit's ~ln€Stu. 
' 
·' 
c... 
1­

SponsOR€b BY Stub€nt Unton thiS J:R10,\Y, f€B. \81 at SentoR BaR 9:30 -Wh€n€V€R! 
---...-­
.,, 


____,...____,..._____.., 
Bradley, ISU weekend 
Women aim for 'best in Midwest' 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Gateway Athletic Conference, the center, leads the Bradley front line. .\ports Writer Braves feature a high-scoring of­Scoring more than I~ points a game. 
fense. Their average of HS points per Grabow has also averaged almost 10 Best in the Midwest. game has been ranked in the Top 20 rebounds an outing. That is the title the Notre Dame for most of the year. Junior \Iandy Neal gives Grabow 
women's basketball team is shooting "Bradley has a high-powered of­some support from the forward posi­for as it heads toward the end of its fensive attack," says Irish coach tion. Despite playing at a height dis­third season. Gaining that title mav Mary DiStanislao. "In fact, it has as advantage (she's only S-9 ), she has be necessary if the Irish hope to gai~ explosive an offense as we'll face all contributed more than I0 points a bid to the NCAA Tournament. year." and six rebounds a game. 
Notre Dame's chances to ·he best The offense is built around one Patty Bontz rounds out the Brad­in the Midwest are mostly in its own person -S-6 sophomore guard ley starting tlve. The S-H senior for­hands. The teams that stand in the Judy Burns, a teammate of Notre ward has chipped in 6.--1 points and way to the bid are on the lri.sh Dame forward Trena Key~ at Marion four rebounds per game. schedule in the next few weeks. Il­lligh School. Burns has been scoring Bradley coach Joe Stowell is 
linois State and Indiana are the two 2~ points a game this season and has t~·ing to do the same thing as DiS­major obstacles, hut teams like Brad­been among the leading scorers in tanisl;lo -build a good program. Af­ley and DePaul also have tht· ability the country all year. ter posting an impressive 19-H to kill tile :>.lotre Dame hopes. . "All their offen!.e is designed for record last year, the Braves have 
Once again, the Irish are going to Burns to score," says DiStanislao. joined a conference with some ve~· have to show that thL')' can· bounce "They like to run dearmns and b­good teams like Illinois State and back from a loss, as they plar for the olate her one-on-one with the Drake. The upgrading of the first time since the thrashing at the defense. She likes to spin and does schedule is evident in the uni­hands of No. I Louisiana Tech. To most of her scoring with the ball mpressive I .'>-1 I record. 
this point in the season, thev have (dribbles herself into position for a Normal, Ill. will be the site of the rt•actcd well to losses, but th~v can­shot)." Illinois State matchup. This game not alford to put themselves i~ that Still, Burns does get a lot of of­may turn out to be one of the more situation anymore. fensive help from her teammates. important games this year as the 
This weekend will give a good in­tier partner in the backcourt. S-H Redbirds bring a good record ( 1S-~ dication of whether Notre Dame is senior Karen Anderson. averages before Wednesday night's game up to the challenge as it travels to 'more than IS points every game af­against Wisconsin) and impressive cemral lllinob to take on Bradley ter compiling a 21-point average last performances again~t some of the University and lllinob ~tate. year. She is also a rebounding threat, best teams in the count~'­
The Bravt·s from Bradley will he pulling down 6.--1 rebounds a game. lllinois State, like Bradley. is a 
tonight's test. Currently 1_',-1 I in the Roxanne Grabow, a S-1 I senior memb{·r of the Gatnvay Con­f'erence. It is the conference leader and is coming off a 1S-point loss to Louisiana Tech. Earlier this sea~on. it dropped a six-point decision to :>.lo. 6 Old Dominion at Norfolk. Va.
• Irish look for revenge against red-hot OSU "lllinoi~ State has a lot of weapons," says DiStanislao. "Height­
By ED DOMA.t"lSKY The Buckeyes. who are 19-S---1 in points) and Perry (with --1~ ). Sophomore _John Dougan. with a 
wise we matt·h up pretty well, but 

CCHA competition and 16-1-5 in Once again, it will he goalie Boh record of 16-~-2 and a 2 . .., 1 goals­
Sports Writer they play a tough. physical inside 
their last .20 games, boast two of the McNamara who must stop the against average will tend the goal op­
game and have some good outside 

COLL!MBl S, <>hio -One of the league's top three scorers. Junior Buckeye attack. His excellent p(,;'r­posite McNamara. 
shooters. 

hottest teams in the nation will Andy Browne (66 points) and class­formance against Bowling Green, "There isn't a goalie you can't The Redbirds depend on the oppose the Notre Dame hockey mate Dave Kobryn ( SS) are second which earned him CCIIA Player of heat," says Smith. "It's just a matter scoring of their front-line players, team this weekend. Ohio State, hol­and third respectively, behind the Week honors should prove to be of getting the high percentage shot 
especially Cathy Boswell, an All­der ofsecond place in the CCHA and Bowling Green All-American Brian a great contldence-huilder for this and then getting the rebounds." 
American la.'>t year. The S-1 1 senior ranked lOth in the country, has lost Hills. weekend. Both teams are readv and the 
is currently leading the team with a 

Browne has already broken the "I've got to look at this series the series' importance is n~t lost on
just once in its last 20 games. 
IS-point scoring average. She also 

CCHA record for goals in a season, same way I looked at last weekend," anybody.
The two teams last met in early has been pulling down a team-high 
the pumping in to date to tie Hills says McNamara. "Ohio State has lost "If we can keep playing the way
December at ACC, and the ~5 eight rebounds every game.
once in their last 20 games, so there

Buckeyes swept the Irish by scores atop the league. we've been playing, l don't think 
"Boswell pretty much has her run of6-4 and 6-S. In that series, the Irish Joining Browne and Kobryn at the can't be a mental letdown just be­we'll have any problems," says 
of the offense," says DiStanislao. 

were outhustled both offensively forefront of the Buckeye offense are cause they're not in first place like Bjork. "We'll surprise Ohio State ­"She posts up, she'll drive, and she'll
Bowling Green was."

and defensively. The team was also the Pooley brothers, Paul ( '17 we'll beat them_" 
shoot from the perimeter. She's without the services of standout 
definitely the focal point of their of­defenseman Sean Regan. 
fense, but it's not like Bradley where
Distance men hopeful

Regan has since returned, and the 
you'll stop one player and stop the defense has looked much better. 
team." Coach Lefty Smith indicates, though, 
Debbie Benak and Dawn Hallett

Runners prep at Central Collegiate 
that improvement is still necessary. 
are the rea.'>ons for this. Benak, the "We're hopeful that we can cut 
6-0 center, has helped out Boswell 

down on some of the turnovers in By DEAN SULLIVAN the top seven, hut with the way the (along with Jan Kania and Dean 
up front by pouring in I~ points a our own end," says Smith. "We're Sports Writer 
team has been performing as of late, Mcfarlane). Jim Tyler has qualified game. A good example of her of­they could place higher. fur the I000 yard run and Allenalso hoping that we can prevent 
fensive potential is the fact that she some shots; we gave up far too many Colleges from all over the Mid­So far this year nine Irish have Pinkett (60 yard dash), John 
scored I"l points in the tlrst halfqualified for the IC4A championship ,\llcCioughan (high hurdles), and Ed

shots last weekend (against Bowling west will be invading Kalamazoo, against Louisiana Tech's Debra Rod­Green)_" Mich. this weekend for the two-day meet. The IC--1A is the oldest track Juba (~mile) have also qualitled for their respective events. Piane ex­man. 
Notre Dame's offense has given Central Collegiate Conference association in the nation, whose The S-1 0 Hallett, Boswell's 
more this

Smith reason for encouragement meet. championship meet hosts I I I pects people to qualit}' partner at teammate, is the third 
lately, especially the line of center Twenty-tlve schools from a teams. mostly from the Atl;mtic weekend. hopefully in the distance Redbird in double figures, averagingmedley. 2 mile relay and more db­
Kirt Bjork and wings John Higgins variety of conferences will be Seaboard. 
I 2. S points a game. She has a good

Co-captain Steve Dziahis and Van lance events. The !C--IA meet will heand Brent Chapman. The top Irish competing for the top spot in the 
outside shot, allowing Boswell and line has tigun:-d in 57 of the team's prestigious event. The Big Ten. the Pearcy have both qualified for the held March S-6 in Princeton. New 
Benak some room underneath_ 

last SO goals. Smith, however, Missouri Valley, and the Mid­quarter mile and the mile relav Jersey. 
The guard positions are tilled by prekrs to key on Notre Dame's American are just three conferences 
two S-~ players. Senior Jan Bowers .:.-depth. which will be represented. 
averages almost seven points a "The top three lines have really "Wisconsin won this year's NCAA 
gaii'le, while her teammate Cath\' malle tremendous improvements cross counr~· championships and 
Beesley is the outside scoring threat. week after week," says Smith. "But Eastern Michigan has a great team." 
Bengals back Sunday 
The Bradley and lllinob State we hope to do a better job as far as says Head Coach Joe Piane. 
games will lx·gin the final stretch of creating turnovers in the other end." In addition to Wisconsin.-the regular games for \:otre
Sunday afternoon marks the ing supt·r-hcavyweight champ ~cason 
Before their Decemher snies other Big Ten teams are Michigan. 
opening round of the I')H5 Ben· \lark LeBlanc ht·adlinc the Dame. Last year at this time. the with Ohio State. the Irish split a \1ichigan State, and Purdue. Eastern 
Both team tired out and dropped its final series with powerful Michigan State. Michigan. Central and Western 
gal Bouts. The S~rd edition of the week's list of fighters. arc 
Bouts, originated by Notre Dame slated to cornpl'lc in the super­five games of the setson. losing any This time. the lrbh arc coming offof .\1ichigan will he the main threats 
legend Dominic "Napp\'" hea\'y division this year. chance at a tournament bid. DIS­a series with league-leading Bo\vling from the \lid-American Con­
tanislao and the pla\Tr' realize that (ireen -in \\ hich they earned an fert:nce. Seven of the ten teams of 
Napolitano, will kick off at 2 p.m. Angdo Perino. Pat Serge and 
Don \lcLaurin rclllrn as cham­they must avoid the collapse this
under the .~out/! Dome of the

impressive win and a tie. that conference will he competing. 
ACC. pions in lighter weight classes. year.
"We've worked very hard," says Reigning \1issouri Valley co­
The '\lotr name Boxing Club The finals of the Bengab are "We have to finish stronger than Smith. "But. if there is am letdown. champs Southern Illinois and Illinois 
train' tight;:r' throughout the traditionally televised as part of last year." savs Irish guard Laura 
\\T'll tlnd oursl'lves out of playoff State should also give the Irish run­
year for appearance in the Ben­:\IBC's Sporh World ~t. Patrick's Doughertv. "We know that ~-e have 
contention." ners tits..VIarqucttc and De Paul wit 
to be the heM in the .\lidwe-'1 ifwe'regab. A large field has ht·en week package. 

~ "I think the team's got a real good be present as independents. 
Proceeds from Bengal ticket going to make the tournan1cnt."
whittled down to S I in nine

attitude going into this weekend," The Irish strong point. distance. 
\\Tight divisions. sales go to Catholic missions in This weekend will tell a great deal sa~' ~eniur Rex Bellomy. "Especially will again be tested by the tine dis­
about whether :>.lotre Dame will,

Last year's he;l\ \'Weight cham­the lkngal region of south aftn coming off a big win over tance crews of Marquette and Wis­pion. Lar~· Andre-.md defend-central Asia. indeed, he Best in the \lit!west. Bowling Green." consin. Piant: is hopir,lg to pi;Jet' in 






