Grenada -page 5 

VOL XVIII, NO. 50 the indept·ntknt ~tudent new~paper ~t-r\·ing notrc dame and ~aint man·~ THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 198~ 

Greeting the EmJteror 
Mrs. Nancy Reagan shakes bands withjapanese 
Tokyo. The Reagans left Tuesday for a six-dayEmperor Hirohito as President Ronald Reagan 
Asian visit to japan and South Korea. See story, looks on yesterday at the Akasaka Palace in page4. · 

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's women to get gli11mpse of the working world 
By THERESA GUARINO 
StaffReporter 
The women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be given "a sneak peek at life after graduation" as Women's Opportunity Week and College Career Days return to Saint Mary's campus Nov. 14-17. 
According to Madeline Hoct1, the College's student body vice-presi­dent for academic affairs, the week ofevents is designed to expoSt: stu­dents to conditions in the working world, and to assist them in their decision as to the issues and con­cerns to take into consideration when making career plans. 
The week ofevents was originally two separate weeks but were combined this year to promot.e in­creased student participation, :>ince "there are a lot of connections be­tween the two anyway," said lloch. "We're going to use one big publicity blitz, and try to con­centrate everything," she con­tinued. 
Highlighting the week's e•rents will be foreign corrro;;oondent Georgie Ann Geyer, who will speak Monday at 8 p.m. in Carroll H~ll. In 
Associated Press 
TRIPOLI, Lebanon -Palestinian rebels backed by Syria ntined hundreds ofshells on PLO chai•·man Yao;ser Arafat's last Middle East bas­tion yesterday, cornering him in 
Tripoli and ignoring his pleas for a truce. 
The rebel barra.ge preventecl the Palestine Liberation Organization leader from visiting loyalist holdouts at the besieged Baddawi rdllgee camp outside Tripoli. Black smoke from raging fires hung over the port 
city of500,000. 
Bllt Arafat visited maimed suppor­ters in hospitals, roving the strec:ts in a chauffered Jeep while shells from rebels in the north and. east oc­addition to being the first female Thursday with a Women's Fair from correspondent, and interviewer of 12-3 p.m. in the Haggar College Cen­such notables as Lech Walensa, An-ter parlor. The fair will feature war Sadat, and the Ayatollah representatives of different or­Khomeini, Geyer is a nationally syn-ganizations organized by women to dicated colummnist and the serve women. The National Associa­recipient of various awards and tion ofWomen Bankers, The Nation­honors. al Organization of Women, the 
The week's activities continue Leagut: of Women Voters and the Tuesday with such programs as American Association of University "Social Justice Considerations in Women are some of the groups par­Career Development", II a.m., ticipating. "Using Thanksgiving and Christmas A lecture by Management Breaks to Advance YourJob Search", specialist Susan Holland will hring 2 p.m., and "Sexual Harrassment on the week ofevents to a dose as she theJob", 7:30p.m. All ofthe lectures speaks Thursday on "The Executive will be in the Student Affairs con­Woman ofthe 80's: Is she fact or Fie· ference room in LeMans Hall. tion?" 
Wednesday's programs include Also on the list ofactivities hut not "Career Development in the Con­an official part of the week is the text of Your Moral and Spiritual ND/SMC theater production Beliefs", I I: I5 am., and "Kitchen Gothic" at H p.m. in the "Networking with Alumni for Happi· Little Theater at Moreau Hall. The ness, Friendship and Job Search production hegins Thursday and Success", I:I5 p.m. 
Most programs will be presented see WEEK, page 3 by members of the Counseling and 


Professor receives teaching award 
ByJEFF NIEKELSKI 
Neu•s Staff 
The Colkge of Science honon:d Professor James T. Cushing with the father James L Shilts Teaching Award Friday. 
"Whik it is undouhtedly an honor to he tht· first recipient of the James Shilts Teaching Award, it is at the same time a hittersweet ex­perience," said Cushing. "The real pity is that Jim Shilts can't he hcrt· to receive a similar award himsdf" 
Shilts. a former member of the physics department, taught general astronomy and astrophysics hcrt· until his death in August of 19H2. "father Shilts was enormously popular with the students both in the dassroomm and outside it." said 
Cushing. "He never seemt·d rushed and always had time for a student with a prohkm. he it physics or a personal one." 
The award, cash plus a per­sonalized gift from the College of Science. was presented to Cushing "on the occasioa ofthe Extt·rnal Ad­visory Council of the c.:olkge of science's visit to the l 'niversity," said FrancisJ Castdlino. Dean ofthe College ofScience. 
Castdlino continued. "A commit· tee from the college of science determined the winner from nominations from ,hoth students and faculty." The official nominations come from the departmental chair­men, accompanied hy ktters detail· ing the rea.~<ms for the individual's nomination and any other sup· portive information. The committee this year consisted of Castdlino, four other adinistrators, including Dean Hofman, and the presidt:nt of the student council ofthe colkge of science. 
Cushing will replace Castellino on next year's committee and eat·h sub­sequent winner will replace an ad· ministrator. "Our aim is to t·onstruct a committee of winners to choose the winners," said Ca.~tdlino. An in­dividual becomes indigihk for the award after winning it once. 
With the purpose of the Father James Shilts Award hcing to honor 
teachers. Cushing u>mmentt·d on teaching in general in his accep· tance speech; "At the preselll time. there is at Notre Dame a great press ti>r mort· and better rest·arch. It is important that in the process WT not 
lose or jeopardize what we han· in the way oft·xcdklll teaching and an outstanding undergraduate program. It i~ ct·rtainly important ti>r Notre Damt· and its future that its studcllls he given an nlucation thq will tlnd prq)ares them f(>r life and for a cartTr that. as alumni and as parems. they will come to rt'llH'm· her Notre Dame with a certain t(md­ness and to value their time ~pent here." 
Next year. hdng a member oft he sdection committtT. Cushing will nn:d to look fi>r criteria in tktt·rmin· ing recipients...I do not stT how anyone can he a d"l'tTnt and convinc· ing tt·acht·r unkss he hdien·s his suhject gin·s the student a special way of looking at the world or a par· ticular insight of perti>rmantT and value," said Cushing. "This umvil'· tion gives a tine teacher tht· t'n· thusiasm which is t·sst·ntial ami justitles. at kast in his own mind. tht· high demands ht· makes on his stu· dents." Ill' also hdit·vt·s that,"students art· really a ht·tttT 


james Cushing 
judge of teachers than we often give them credit li>r." These idl·ao; should play important roles in next }Tar's sdection. 
In addition to his professorship. 
Cushing  is  also  the  director  of  
graduatt·  studies  for  the  physics  
department.  


Career Development Center. The center is also co-sponsoring the week with Saint Mary's Student Government. 
Ex-POW recalls Vietnam horrors 
The programs conclude on 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL
Palestinia.ns blast PLO 
News Staff 
Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Mic­

stronghold in Tripoli 
hael C. Lane recalled the brutality 
and extreme punishment leveled oncasionally slammed into neighbor-
him while a prisoner in North Viet·hoods near his office. 
nam during a Wednesday afternoon"There's been no progress in talks lecture in the library auditorium.
anywhere,"' Arafat told reporters In the lecture, part ofa leadershipwho followed him to the Islamic 
Jab for Air Force ROTC cadets, laneHospital, where he chatted with said he hoped to "raise public aware·
patients and signed autographs. The PI.O mutineers have chased ness of POWs (Prisoners of War)' and MIAs (Missing in Action)" whilemost of Arafat's estimated 8,000 focusing on his own personal ex­loyalists into their last stronghold in periences.
the Middle East -Tripoli, 50 miles Lane, a 1964 Notre Damenorth of Beirut. More than 1,000 graduate, was shot down on a mis-
people have hecn killed since the 
sion over Hanoi in Vietnam. He was
fighting began Nov. 3, according to 
namese in order too t htain military hope that they're not alive.'" secrets and propoganda: Lane continued that he supportt·d "Your legs were put in a long har, I'.S. policy in Vietnam, stating "I then your wrists were put in wrist have no regrets of our involvement 
captured and hdd prisoner at what torture which were exercised on
lehanese police. he termed the "Hanoi Hilton" which those who failed in attempts to
The rebels claim Arafat has was the first POW camp in Vietnam, escape.
betrayed the PLO's aim of wrestling from December 1966 to February When asked if he believed that
a homeland from Israel. Arafat claims. t)le' : r~bels ••have be'en 
'1973. . . . ,·.there art"any P0Ws'stiil In VIetnam; He cecalled one of the forms of Lane replied, :.1\.fy 'ht:art would 'like
deceivea' by s)·ria, which he says ,torture. ~d by. tbe Nof1:h_, Vict· tos.ay 'yes/but my head would say 'I
See PLO, page5 
mantles (handcuffs without the chain), and then they pressed your nose to your ankles and you would stay in that position as long as you could stand it -which wasn't very long. 
"After all that, you fdt as if you were a traitor to your country." 
Lane continued the discussion of his internment hy explaining their uncomfortable living conditions which included concrete or rice· tilled matresses; their forms ofcom­munication through various codes; and the "sophisticated" forms of 

in Vietnam. I'm glad that we werl there." 
Lane told of how the POWs fdt that they were "Ameril·a's forgotten few." 
"We never fdt that we were heroes -we hlew it, we were shot down. However, that's how people received us (as we returned as heroes)." 
Lane received his MBA from Southern Florida University after his service in Vietnam. and he is cur­
rently on active duty with the Air Force while teaching others how to sun·ive such trying circumstances as those he encountered in Vietnam. 
He was rewarded by the cadets with a "AFROTC" cap along with a N<~tre Dame windbreaker for his 
'lecture: · 
---------------------------------~----------~--­
Thursday, November 10, 1983-page 2 
The Observer 


In Brief · 
• 
By examining health insurance costs, the 
I :nivl·r~ity of Kentucky student government was ahle to save stu­dent~ 1hnl· a half-million dollars in premiums. !'aced with a 40 per­tTnl rail' hikt· for students' BIUl' Cross/Blue Shield policy this year, Mudcnt government checked policies at other schools in the stale, linding a l·ompany that would provide the same snvicc for kss money. Confrontnl with that data. the I :niversity of Kentucky ad­ministration agrt-ed to change insurance carriers, and to consider ktting the contract through compl·tctivc bidding in the future. 
-7be Ohsert•er 
Twenty-one stud~nts have hecn arrested in drug raids at thn-e Long Beach, Californi;t high schools where officers posnl as stmlenh durin)! an eight-week investigation. Police also arrc~tnl three adults and were seeking two others in connection v·ith the sale of drugs; induding marijuana, cocaine, L'iD and am­plwtamim·.s, police said Tuesday. Deputy Police Chief William Ellis ~aid two male and onl' li:malc undercover narcotics officers were platTd at Wihon. ~illikan ami Jordan high schools. Thcy made 4') drug purd1ases from 51 pl·ople. -AP 
A Baltimore federal judge has dismissed a suit 
against two nlucators, saying then· was no evidence they were in­volved in a dl·cision to conlint· live students in a darkened, unvent­ilated storage dose! as a disciplinary measure. Judge Walter Black Jr. on Tuesday dismissed the case against Edward J. Anderson, supcrin­tcmlent of Annc Arundd County schools, and Kathecn Slevin, a lilllrth-grade teacher_ llowevcr, Black reli.tsed to dismiss the case again~t Ralph <. McCann Jr., principal of Germantown Elementary ~dmol. and Waym· R. Milk, as~istant principal at tht· school. -AP 

Of Interest -_, : 
Denis Goulet, professorof t·ducation t<>r justice at thl· l'nin·rsity of Notre Dame will-speak on "lluman Rights in Brazil" a~ part oftill' Saint Mary'~ Justice Education lecture series at 7 
p.m. in ~tapkton Lounge. (;oukt ha~ hccn a mcmher of the Notre 
I>ame faculty sinn· JI-.P'). Ik recl'ivcd his Ph. D. from San Paulo in Brazil and holds thl· William and Dorothy O'Nl'il chair in justice nlucation. Ill' has writtl'n numerous articles and puhlishnl st·vcn hoob. lib most fl'l'l'nt hook is entitkd "Mexico -lkvdopment Stratcgit:s li>r the l'ut urc." This is thl' sl·cond in a series of kctures on "I Iuman f(ights Around thl' World" sponsored hy the Justice Educa­tion Program. The lectures art: frl·e and open to the puhlic. -7be 
( JIJSel'l'l'l' 
Do you understand art? wlll'tht·r you do or d!!!i_t. 
the l'riends of till' Snitl' Musl·um ha~ put togl·thlT a series oflr:l'lurcs inten~lnl to ~t·rn· as an introdunion to basic ideas and tcchiniqucs in 1he making of art. The ll'ctures inl'i udc slidl' presentation~ and will he prl'Sl'ntnl in conjunction with exhibits on display in the ( J'Shaughnc~~y (ialkry of the Snite MUSl'Uill. Current displays in the gallny include a sntlpturl· hy Ivan Mestrovk. paintings lw Picasso, and prints In Doug Kinsc\·. a re~idt·nt lwre at Notrt· Danw. Thl· lirst of tht· lour kcturl·s. "Painting." will he delivered tonight at ~:50 h) <:hid' <.urator ~tephl·n Spiro in the lllUSl'Um'~ Annl'nhcrg Auditorium. .-\dmission is S2. S I li>r studl·nts and munhers of the 1-ri<-mls •>fthc '-,nite. -11.11' (J/i.'il'l'/'1'1' 
Several former and current faculty mcm 
hn~ at ~ot rl· I >.ulll' "ill part it·ipatt: today in a public reading of their pol'tq _ Till' program..I (.('/e/Jraliull -Soli'<' Oame l'ul'ls and l'uetrr. ''ill lw .11 I 1.1 'i .1.111. 111 till' Annenht-rg Auditorium of the -'nile ,\lusnrlll ;rml i; sponsor(·d h)' the Friends of the l.ihrary. Thoma~ ~tritch. professor l'llll-ritus of American Studies, will in­trodUl'l' the participants. Thl')' arc Stl·phen Fredman. Dolorl·s Frese, Sonia <icrn.-~. l.oub lla.~ky. John Matthias, Ernest Sandl'l'n, Melita Schaum and thl' worb of the late Fatill'r l.eo R Ward. -The Ob-
The celebration ofMartin Luther's 4uin­

ccntcnary continucs tonight with an evening prayt:r service by Thomas O'Meara in Sacred Heart Church at ~:50. Tht: Notre Dame Chapel Choir will also be a part of the service. At H:.~O in the church, Craig Cramer and Robert Hawkins will present an organ recital. The Cl'il'hration is spon~orcd hy the Theology Ikpartmt·nt ofthe lfniVl'r· sity. -The Ohse1n•r 
A slideshow put together hy thl' l nion of Con­cerned Scientists. "Space Weapons: The Next Arms ){ace," will bt· shown todav in the Cl'ntn ti>r Social Conn·rns ar -J:.~O p.m. -The ( JliS!'rt'l'l' 

Weather · ··-:, . _· 
Windy and much coldertoday with a '7() pcrcmt chatJCl' v( ~hoWl'fS, Tenmer;uqr,l·s fal)ing into the low -lOs. Windy an_d cpld ,tpnigl1t ;tK;lq H~n_19rrpw ~:tt't.~·.1'~•.P,Ii,II<)<;'4~,·.!'Jl:V.¥,~·.t?f.•c•..,• 
shoWl'fS. Li>WS in thC:· mid•.~Os. II igh lllrlli>rro\.:· ai<iuriu -!0.' -=-·AP-" -. . 




Poster-pullers prove Soviets are not world's only thugs 
DearEditor: 
Recenllv, the Democratic Socialists of America Paul McGinn sponsored a ral~v in pmtest ofU.5: military• inlt>rven­
Executive Editor 
tion in Grenada. I am not u•riting either to support or attack D.SA, or the opinions expressed at the ral~Y-As this is a free country, anda free campus, I suppose that Inside Thursday the D.SA has the right to ral~J' for or against any event they choose. 

My comments are directed against those persons on last ~pring decried the An Tostal t•gg toss event as a campus who implicit~v attacked such a right hy waste of food -no other letter last year received so destroying leaflets posted to advertise the rai~V-I hope much attention. Opponents did not t:vcn try to defend that those who tore dou•n many ofthe posters realize tht: event but calkd the author a "crank" or an "idiot." that they w£>re engaging in the z•ery• kind ofrepression The last thrt:c months havt: set:n a tlurry of con­ofinformation that they so uehement~v oppose when trovcrsics in which liberals yell that the Notre Ihme­such repression takes place in so-called "left-wing" Saint Mary's community is too conservative, and in countries. which conservatives yell that the community is too 
I would like to think that the Notre Dame student liberal. hody is open to the expression ofall opinions and the University investments are being challenged by adz•ertisement of rallies members of a group who meant to express such call themst:Ives Students for opinions. I regret that some Responsible University In­people here are not open in vestments. this way. Campus conservatives 
such as law professor Sincere~)', Charles Rice and Scholastic Alven Neiman editor Jim Ganther likewisc Philosophy have protested, charging that the Collegc of Business 
There is little doubt that made a mistake when it those responsible for the invited Playboy Enterprises tl'aring down of leatlets president Christie Hdncr to advertising the Grenada ral­speak. ly were students. Those stu­What matters, however, is dents, most of whom not w hetht:r one espouses supported the U.S. inva.~ion, the prindpll's of con­may have done so hecause servative Michael Novak or they thought it cute or be­radical Dorothy Day -what cause peer pressure pushed matters is that a handful of thl·m to he destructivt:. students have not even 
This is, however. not the first time such events have allowed fellow students the opportunity to gather in­occurred. formation with which to make up thl'ir own minds 
Last year, when members of the Farm Labor Organiz­about Grenada, treatment of migrant farm workers, or ing Committee were asking students to approve a famine. I :nivcrsity-wide boycott of Campbell's Corporation, Student activists, whether conservatives or lihcrals, they voiced frustrations similar to those ofDr. Neiman. admittedly arc a minority. But' hccausc activists arc a 
As quickly as FLOC posters were taped or stapll'd to minority does not give the majority or even anotlll'r walls, they were pulled down hy students who probably minority the right to silence opposition. thought such posters presented an opportunity to Protests arc not games of upmanship where spoiled retaliate against "bleeding heart liberals." children laugh at each other's foibles -protests art: 
Another'such "do-gooder" group, the World Hunger embodiments of one's freedom to assemble peaceably. Coalition. recently compiled and posted fact sheets And h>r the first time since the Vietnam War, conscien­about food waste at the dining halls. tious students and faculty arc taking the timt: to debate 
'\1cmbcrs of WHC had hopt:d to educate students issues. ahout the proper usc of food. Many students, however. Children, howcVt:r, havc a short attention span. saw the posters as only a way to vent pre-pubescent frustration through graffiti. Comments ran from "Who 
The views expressed in the Inside column are cares?" to "This is bull----'" 
the views of the author, and do not necessarily A letter to the editor which appeared in The Ohsert•er reflect the views ofthe editorial board orstaff. 
. The_Obs.erver 
1Jesi~11 l:'ditor . .................... ( .arolt• Ltu~ic.·r f)esJ~f!.ll Assistants.. .... (:t1rb :md .\Laun:c.·n l'l•pesel/e~·s..... . ................... \'il..: Jnd Hill .\'ell'S Ldilur. .............................. ,\1.tn I !t-al) ( upy l:tlilfJr... Dan .\lt.:<.ullou~h \fuJr/.-. ('rJfJl' l:'di/fJr... .. ,\totrl· Hamin:t ~·it·u·prdnt layout . Tum ~mall h.'attu·c•s l.i~t·out ........ . .. Sarah ll;:unih1m ,\f) /Jat• F.dilur. ................\klinda ~loon.· \J/( lh~l' /:'dilcn .. :\tan· Ann Puller Ad /)(•sign .... . ...... Paul Slota Pbuln}(rtlfJbt•r.. . ........ ~nm and Pc.:tc.: (lues/ AfJ/)('llrtl1ll:es. Tht· I{EAI. Mikt· ~ul· li\'an, .l<~mt·s Brown·~ hot tuh party. Tom "Tht· Irish Extra" Sapp. Patti ~raah. tht.' cekhract•c..l author of "Tht· Oftkial Zarf llanc.Jhook." anc.J a hirthc.la) !(irl from Far­ll·y known to must ofus a"i The.· Markt.'ting 
Qun.·n~ 
!lome! 11-0-M-E! 
lky. Maria. I hat's PLACID! 
The Obaerver (USPS (599 2-4000) IS 
published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on pe110ds The Obaerver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Saml Marys CollegP. Subscnptwns may be purchased for $25 per year ($t 5 per semester) by wnllng The Obaerver. P 0 Box Q. Notre 
Dame. Indiana 46556 
The ObHrver IS a member of The Aa.acl.ted Preu. All '/ 

_.• }';s:-r~-t!~-~~~s:.ar~-''~l"f~d/~:~<·: 

The Observer Thursday, November 10, 1983-page 3 

AP Photo

'Sno fun 
Denver residents walk down the 16th Street Mall in Dem>er Tues­day as heavy snowswirls over the Mile High City 
Dominic's Hair WOMEN&MEN Styling 
Cutting Colorino Perms Blow Drying Tuesday-Friday 9 am-5pm Saturday 8am-2pm Closed Sun. & Mon. Evenings by Appointment 
272-8560 
51333 US 31N 3 mi. No. ?f Campus 



Make thE! connection 
~ez7'Z7c~1J©'TI 
1835 So1Jth Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 


Retired ambassador to Nicaragua puts blame on U.S. foreign policy 
ByJOHN NEBLO 
News Staff 
Former Ambassador to Nicaragua Lawrence Pezzullo severely criticized the Reagan administration yesterday in a lecture on ll.S. Central American policy. Pezzullo charged that Reagan's attitude toward Nicaragua was one of "cynical hos­tility from the very beginning." 
Pezzullo headed the U.S. Embassy in Nicaragua during the civil war which overthrew dictator Anastasio Somoza in 1979. As ambassador he helped negotiate an end to the fight­ing and establish diplomatic rela­tions with the revolutionary Sandinista regime. 
According to Pezzullo, many of today's problems in Central America could have been avoided had the 
U.S. stuck with its original policy of accepting the exis!ence of the San­dinistas and attempting to deal with them. With the election of Ronald 

·"CJ'Qowettg {;otr aQQ occagLoftg" 
Come in and Browse 327 Lincolnway 232-3354 
m-~ 

(' , • Thursday Night Buffet 
Ius all new Margarita Bar with 11 flavors is now open. 
Margaritas will be on special for $1 from 8-11. / 
Buffl9t 11-12 / 


Happy Birthday 
Colette 

Moore 

The HUNT is oni 
Which hall has the craziest floor? Will they be in Alumni? Dillon? Lewis? Holy Cross? Walsh? Regina? McCandless? Grace? 
he Picture man will be photographing 
all hall floors that enter. Deadline to enter Nov. 15 Deadline for photography Dec. 4 
Official entry forms available from hall presidents 
GRAND PRIZE for the winning floor: $100 from the Picture Man Atl you can eat pizza & drinks from DOMINO'S PIZZA 
MEET WITH YOUR FLOOR AND ENTER TODAY! 
, . , 

1 1
.,·, 
,,;; ·,. • • · • • • ' • '
•••••••••••••••·•illll!lllllil•••••• ' 
~,. . . . . . , ·\ , _-•• , , • , ~. -v -~ i 1, 
• ............ ..... "" ... -.. ~ .......................... c: '-· -· ...... ---,...-_.... __ -.... --,..-.,..:. ... ---... --~ ~ . ---.. -.... -. --. ---. --.. --.. ~ ...........!
-lo 
Reagan however, U.S. policy took what Pezzullo called, "a quantum jump, overnight." Reagan abandoned the Carter administra· tion policy of aiding the t new San­dinista government in favor of supporting right-wing rebels attempting to overthrow the leftist Sandinistas. 
Pezzullo stated this lack of con­tinuity has been a serious problem in l :.s. foreign policy throughout our nation's history. Citing historical ex­amples, such as the Senate's failure to ratify the Treaty ofVersailles after World War I, Pezzullo attempted to illustrate how baffling this discon­tinuity is to our allies and enemies alike. He said anti-American lies and propaganda gain credibility because of our t;tilure to show any consis­tency in foreign alfairs. 
During the lecture. Pezzullo stated that the fundamental source of unrest in Central America is the existence of "five countries with no viable political institutions dominated by powerful oligarchies which have alienated the masses." 
But the immediate cause of unrest 
was the downfall of Somoza, whom 
Pezzullo called the "'Godfather of 
Central America." The downt;tll of 
Somoza scared the military es­
tablishment throughout Central 
America into adopting a more 
repressive stance. while it servnl as 
inspiration to embryonil' revolu­
tions throughout the region. 
Pezzullo. who is now retired from the foreign service and currently serves as executive director of Cath­olic Relief Services, also discussed the role of the Church in Central America. Pezzullo cxplainnl how the Church is facing a grave dilemma because. "missionaries dedicated to the poort·st of the poor can only conclude that equity will come only 


Lr"l'rence Pezzullo 
when the system changcs...in Central America that means revolu­tion." He says the Church finds itself with three terrible choices: encouraging local leaders to stand up to their government, which often leads to imprisonment, torture, or murder: advocating revolution, which inevitably leads to violence: or ignoring the problems altogether. 
Ending on a positive note, Pezzul­lo suggested that a solution is pos­sible. He believes that a negotiated settlement between the five Central American governments, if en­couraged by the U.S., and mediated by a third party, can succeed. Such talks have already begun and with election time fast approaching, Pez­zullo believes Reagan may become more disposed to negotiation. 
• • . Week 
continuedfrom page I 
runs through the next two weekends. The play was written by Saint Mary's faculty member Julie Jensen. 

Student government members are optimistic about the success of next week's events, especially with the activities of the two events combined. They are also hoping for 
• ihctea5h1 ' partkipati<if! ·in the . 
·U~yt'ime'pr(Jgrams, 'esp~cfally for the'
•. '\Xl<>hierf·s Fai't. . , , , . ~ . , .. .. . 1 

The Observer Thursday, November 10, 1983-page 4 

The <>hst.·rvt·r/S4.:clll Bci\\Tr
Nuclear Dilemma 
Professor Micbael Francis, chairman of the gm•ernment depart­111!'111 til Notre /Jame. teaches a cla.u focusing on the nudeardilnn­ma. 

Talk to us about your future career in management. Twice. 
Ylllr hrst opportumty u>mL'' when our reprl',cntattve comes to your campu' on: 
Thursday, November 10 
You have a second opportuntty hy calhng 
us dtrcctly so th;lt you can discuss any as· pect of your management education w11h a lllL'Illhn ol our admt~ston otfice staft. Use our toll-tree number. We look forward to 
meeting you.B 
l( unllnl'llt.llll. \,) ·~ )Nt•\o\ Yurk \tall') 
8011/847-2082 ~ 800/252-6326 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT 
114 \1..\LOTT HAll ITHACA. NY 14851 


Notre Damo 
·~ ~1\ 
~lilt ,, .
1 • n~ ~ t I' ' 
~ i
Woolridge vs. . P. J) 
Student Union
Tripucka Bus trip to Chicago Bulls 
vs. 
Detroit Pistons Game 
Tues., Nov. 15 Bus leaves 6:00pm Sign up at ticket offfice or at SU Record Store 
Mangement Opportunities Professional Business Managers 
U.S. NAVY Supply Corps has openings in training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to immediate managerial 
positions in one of the following areas: SYSTEMS INVENTORY MANAGEMENT AQUISITION CONTRACTING COMPUTER SYSTEMS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
Starting Salary $17,000 with benefits and rapid advancement 
Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age. limit: 30....... 
••· • • ~·,·••
·. ·.· ·..·. F.. 8 
L--C_a_··l_l:::r._..o_·n_::__.:re_.e___1_·-_0_0_:-3_82_-:_97_.8_2_.._...~'t' ...., 





Reagan aims to settle U.S./Japan trade disputes during four-day visit 
Associated Press 
After a formal welcoming Japan. 
TOKYO -President Reagan. ceremony under gray skies in the The official, speaking only on con­welcomed hy Emperor Hirohito and courtyard of the ornate Akasaka dition that he not he identified, said flag-waving school children, cau­Palaet:, Reagan toured the Imperial Reagan emphasized "the impor­tioned his hosts yesterday that Palace with the 82-year-old Hirohito tance of making progress on these failure to settle trade disputes be­and held the first of two business issues, both hec:ause of their tween the United States and Japan meetings with Prime Minister economic impact and also hecause could damage their political rela­Yasuhiro Nakasone. of the effect that failure to solve tions_ Asenior Reagan administration of­them would have on our political 
Uniformed sentries, part of a ficial, hricfing reporters afterward, relationship." 90,000-memher security force said the two leaders discussed ll.S.­deployed for Reagan's protection, japanese trade differences only in Japanese Foreign Ministry spokes­stood guard on downtown streets broad terms, hut that Reagan was man Yoshio Karita told reporters and atop building~ as the president "very businesslike" and that Reagan referred to Asia as the arrived for three days ofcritical talks "straightforward" in raising con­"new frontier of the world" and with )apanese officials on trade, cerns about a projected S22 billion stressed the importance ofmaintain­defense, energy and finance issues. U.S. trade deficit this year with ing close ties. 
r ~c.l.,T" ~-" 
-~· ' s.
,....... ,1:) $~t 
.s't.$1')1') 
~t$
fk,


00 ~ ~RID(jfT ~C(jUIRfS 
·­
Mon. & Tues. 
Wed. 

Sat.Afternoon 25«1: BEER Fri. & Sat. 
2 for 1 

Watch the NO vs. Housedrinks start at 
Beat the Clock 
Housedrinks 
Penn State game Happy Hour 4-7 
7 ·10 

SOe and go up 10e 
with us and drink
Thurs. 

every hour Mon.· Fri. 
$2.50 Draft Pitchers $1 Molsons 



CORKTOWNE Ll UOR_S,INC. 
OUTH BEND AVE. 
t of__~~rti'!.:_s Supermarket 
Old Milwaukee 
5 
E&J Brandy_ 750 iL 5.99 19 case Kessler___ • 751 IL 4.99 Lite by Miller ' Mattingly & 
Moore_ ____750 IL 5.19
7
47 

ca11e 
Popov Vodka. u5 7.49 
,/~--~----------------~~ 
Smlrnoff
Keg Beer 

Vodka. ______ u5 9.99 
Baillfl
28.99
Strohs 

Irish Cream. __ .. 10.49 
Hiram Walker26.99 Schnapps. _ 750 ML 4.79 
Bellows WINE Gin ________ us Ltr. 8.99 
Riunite. ___ .. _750 Mt. 2.69 Chiva·s 
RegaL _____ soo ML 9.99 Boones Farm_ .750 fllt.1.49 
Ron Rico Carlo Rossi _____ 4 Ltr. 4.99 Rum. __ ~ __ .5oo IlL 3.69 
M&R AstL • ___ 750 ML 1.59 
QUART BEER SPECIAL Viuante ___ . __ . _4 Ltr. 4.89 Bud Light_ -.. _---66' Schmitt 750 ML Budweiser_-----76' 
Schlitz______ -_-71'
Sohne Liebfraumilch_2.99 
Old Mllwaukeo--59'
Light_ •750 ML 2.29 
Price 
. . . ... 

.•,• t. • '•1 .. •'"' '•\."''•t.'-'1·,,·~.,·.,"~. ·
,·,·,J,-,, ,., ........ : • .-•••,,, .•••~ ••~.\ '1,\\,":1' '#.11'#1 •••• 
........,..r..----~~~····--------:-~.-'···•.-·:/.'::::.:::~::·:_:: 
The Observer Thursday, November 10, 1983-page 5 




EASY' RIDER 
TO AND FRO~[ CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 Hlt)URS EVERY DAY 
Provisional government organized to prepare for Grenadan elections 
Associated Press 

ST. GEORGE'S, Grenada -Sir Paul Scoon, Grenada's governor general, appointed a nine-member advisory council yesterday to serve as a provisional government and prepare for elections. 
No elections have been held since a revolutionary government seized power four years ago. 
Scoon is recognized as Grenada's constitutional authority by the United States and eastern Caribbean nations who invaded Oct. 2 ') after a governmt·nt coup. 
He told a news conference that all the council members were Grenadians and free of political ties or vested interests that might con­flict with their duties. 
The announcement came shortly after U.S. officials said Sco011 and Cuban officials had agreed that two Cubans the embassy first secretary and a communications technician, will remain on the is­land. 
Scoon, a Grenadian. was formally appointed by Queen Elizabeth II as her representative on the island -a 
former British colony and member ofthe Commonwealth. The queen is titular head of the Commonwealth and queen ofGrenada as well. 
Scoon named Alister Mcintyre, a 
U.N. development official, to head the council as soon as he is released from his duties as a deputy secretal)':general in charge of the United Nations Council on Trade and Development. 
Nicholas Brathwaite. an educator. was appointed acting chairman until Mcintyre takes over. 

Michiana's Unlimited Sight, Sc>und, & Taste Experience. 
-featuring-
Half Million Dollar Theatre Pipe Organs; Old Fashioned Ice Cream Parlour Twenty Four Val'ieties of Import Beers; And a Wide Selection o1 Food Attractions; 
Go East on l::dison to Main St., Then North to Day Rd. 259-0050 
s 


LJ 1 

~~ 
J(;_ 
P1
M 9 
jJi~T 

: 1­
,u
M fJ 
E 
it. 
r;jo]
~I 
II?,J .~, 

I~ 
// 
NOTRE DAME FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAM TO 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
INTERESTED STUDENTS: 
--ENROLL :IN S.E.C.DND SE.MESTER SE&lNIU.t-lG­GH:II-II:SE., MLC.H ~0~ F, 'MWF-3:25, 3 C.R. 
--PIC.K UP APPL"lt.AilDW M ~IERI!>.L~ AI FORE.1&N &Tuny PRo&RAMS OFF1C.E.1 4-2.0 A!.::ll-1\ltUS­TRAIION BU~LD~NG 
DE~DLtNE FOR P..~PL1CAi10NS: DE.CEMBE.P-.. 1, 1.983 


Y.fith Guest Appearances by 
IJIIONNE WARWICK 
ar1d former N.D. Quarterback JOE MONTANA TUESDAY, NOV. 15th· 8 P.M. 
(Portions of -this show will be taped for a Nov. 23rd Bob Hope Television Special.) 
PRICES 510.50 




Floor, Pllthlnn Lo-Arena Bleachers 
•,~d Loge 
Tickets on sale at: 
ACC Box Office 9am-5pm 
SEARS (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City), ROBERTSON'S (Sa. Bend, Town & Country and Concord Mall), !iT. JOSEPH BANK (Main Office), ELI(HART TRUTH, J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (Lal:torte), WORLD RECORDS (Goshen) lt\USIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor). 
Mark Oliver Hrutkay, Although the Iii' woman is miles and miles away, She has something to say to her Iii' man... 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY All my love, You cuddly Teddy Bear! 


' ...
' 
Scoon told reporters he had ap­pointed people with technical ex­perience who would be concerned with Grenada's development. One of their main tasks. Scoon said. would be to makt· "all nn:essal)· preparations for the holding of general elections." 


Ammonia stifles small town 
DANVILLE, Ind. Several hundred residents and more than ')00 elementary Khool students were evacuated yesterday aft.er a far­mer pulled away fueling equipment from an ammonia tank without unhooking. authorities said_ 
A firefighter. two city employees helping with the evacuation and a lo­cal resident were treated for irrita­tion from the toxic fumes but no one was seriously injured after the acci­dent at the Hendricks County Farm Bureau Co-op. 
Employees and customers at the co-op, Hendricks County court­house, South Elemental)' School and several homes and businesses within I 0 blocks of the co-op were moved to the county 4-H fairgrounds on the east side oftown, as police sealed off the south side. 
David Whicker, general manager of the co-op, said co-op employee Steve Allen was tilling a -I,')00-gallon tank at about '-):I') a.m. when farmer Dan Searcy of rural Danville drove his pickup truck forward with the hoses attached to the tank. Whicker said the hoses feeding from the I H,OOO-gallon bulk tank t snapped off a three-inch pipe. 
• • .PLO 
continuedfrom page 1 
wants to dominate the PLO. 
Syria denies involvement in the 
mutiny, but Syrian troops in north 
Lebanon have been openly support­
ing the mutineers with tanks and ar­
tillel)'. 
Several reporters following Arafat asked him about an erroneous broadcast report Tuesday that he had fled the country. He shouted: "You have eyes!" 
On Tuesday, Arafat abandoned his vow to fight to the death in Tripoli, saying he was rt·sponding to the pleas of municipal leaders to spare the city a bloodbath. He offered to stop fighting if the rebels did. 

501 E. Sample 
213-2590 10% Discount with university 
ID 
I fH l CHARl>ING h STARTING SVSHM CHECI< 



Viewe0 int 
Thursday, November 10, 1983-page 6 


Would that Merlin were here 
The Obsen,er has faikd. 
The motto stands now as a hollow reminder of a nobk idea which, sadly like the Round Table, was not fit for the likes of mortals: "The ind~·p~·ndent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saini Mary's." 
W~·. like Arthur and his knights espousing a philosophy that is as necessary to existence as it is impossible to enact, boldly proclaim our independc:nce. That imkpendence was buried long ago in the unyic:lding stone of reality: We do not pay rent, we do not pay utilities, and we do not colk::t our own suh· scription fees. We have never been independ­
~·nt. 
Bruce Oakley 
Guest column 
l.ik~· Arthur wat~·hing his kingdom collapse on his dreams, we ~adly dutch at the tatter~·d cloak ofour illusion. 
But the shame, the tailure, lit.·s not in our futik adhert.·nt.-c to a fading dream, hut in our inahilit y to makl· the dream real for our 
rt.·adt.·r~. 
Wt.· han· faikd to convinct.· our readers that wt.· cart.· about tht.·m. that Wl' dl.'scrvc indepen­tknn:. We have faikd so dismally that thc:y think us crooks and incompctt.·nrs, spoiled brats hidden away in our palace fl-asting as Evt'l')'lllan sulkrs. 
Thq· think of us not as sc:rvants, hut as sdf­st·rving. Tht·y think w~· arc: interested only in lionizing ourselves at their exp~·nse. 
Th~·y think we don't feel the pain ofsedng our mistakl.'s, froz~·n fon·ver in hlack and whitt.', ridicukd daily as the: major lllnt.·htime activity. Thl.'y think we us~· our motto as an_ invincible armor ddkl'ling thl.' arro\\ s of nitidsm. Little do th~·y know it is a wrap of flimsy ~·otton that cann01 kl.'cp out tht· chill wind of ridicuk that gust~ out of dining hall conn-rsations. 
w·~· must shoulder thl.' hlaml.' for this misun­derstanding. 
We tilt with an administration that is dressed as the Black Knight, but we sit astride a horse we have forgotten to feed. 
We have failed to demonstrate effectively our concern for readers. Our policy that let­ters to the editor be typed is a practical and common one, yet if enforcing that policy becomes a harrier between us and our readers, it is made an uncommonly impracti­cal policy. Providing space in the "Campus" column to freely publicize events is good, but if readers have the impression that doing so is a "chore." a necessary evil ratherthan a public service, how much good is it? 
We have failed to offer public services in the proper spirit. Our attitude more than our actions has disturbed those we deem to serve. W c foolishly assumed that the nobility ofour efforts and ideals would shine without needing even an occao;ional touch ofpolish. 
And so, instead ofseeing us as champions of 
truth and a voice for campus interests, our 
readers sec us as marauding barbarians, 
destroying student organizations and llniver­
sit y departmt·nts with the printed word as our 
battering ram. 
Only now that we find ourselves unable to scak the wall before us without support beneath us, do we sec the damage our attitude has done. 
And we arc pushing some of our number into the moat as we strain at the wall. Our office manager, whose job allows her to help hn husband pay the family bills while still providing the freedom to spend time with her two children, is not a University employee. She has passed up other jobs to stay with The 
0 bserver. 
Now, she is in the moat, pleading t()r someone to tell her there are no dragons nearby. Her cries have fallen on deaf cars. No l.ancelot has stepped forward to simply say, "I will defend you." No one has had the decency to tell her whether her job is safe. 
And she is the only one at The Obseroer with something more to lose than pride and hope. Others of us have left our Camelot in tears, hccausc our Tabk would not hear warnings 


P. 0. Box 


U.S. invasion 
/J£'ar l!'tlitor: 
Mr. Mkh:~d Brennan·~ column of Novem­h~·r H tlisplayetl an incrnlihk lack of willing­Ill'~; 10 adtlrt·~, the compktl.' pktur~· surrounding the l :nitnl Stat~·~· intervention in ( ;rl·natla. I k claim~ that th~· l'.S. will he hurt hy its allil-~· oppo~ilion to our nation's actions. <)ur alli£'s han· provl.'n that they l.'Xpect sup­port fi1r all of thdr a1.:tions. such as rl·pression in lrdand, which our government obligingly winks at. but s~Tk always the path of least rt·sistancc in rdusing 10 stand hy the l :nitnl Stall'S. 
llr~·,man·~ point regarding (;rl.'nada's size is ridiculous. Thl' l'.S. itsdf maintains its ~·ruir~· Indian On·an lllTt on th~· island of l>il-go Gar­da which has a population smalkr than that of c;r~·natla. Anti till' Carihhem isk obviously wa~ irH~·ntktl a~ a Sovil't-Cuban military has~·­
At.Tusation~ that w~· violated th~· l~io Treaty ar1.· n·q· poorly groundnl. Our action was one to r~·storc sov~·rdgnty to a nation rather than violate it Th1.· Cuhan:o. and Sovil'ts OVl'fthr~·w and murllernl m~·mhers of a governm~·nt which was moving towards llenmcratk sodalism whkh would han· proved too dif­
ICUlt t(>r Fidd Castro to domin:~te. Wh~-r~· wt·r~· th~· vok·cs nmdenming this blatant suh\'l'rsion) Is a siknt inva.,ion aimnl at com letc domination~ of a sovereign stat~· 
acceptable? Our mission was to both rescue our citiz~·ns and expd the real invaders when the people could not do so. 
The bdid that we will now pounce upon Nicaragua is not founded in any more logic than th~· hdid that we will tomorrow invade the Soviet l'nion. Mr. Brennan likes to project his perception of our government into f.tct r~·gardless ofthe realities ofthe situation. Ifhe had any gra.'p of foreign policy, he would see 
the ditlC:rences and complcxilics of the Nicaraguan situation. 
Finally, Mr. Br~·nnan displays his total incp­titudl.' in understanding the situation hy claim­ing th:~t the government of Nicaragua is a popular one. Is China's government popular merely because it replaced a corrupt and r~·pr~·ssive regime? Tht· Sandinistas have sides­tepped thdr promi~· of elections, have silenced the pr~·ss. have worh·d to subvert other gov~·rnmt·nts in violation of states' sovereignty, and massacred Indian tribes in the name ofland rdimn. Thepopular govcrn­ml.'nt has many parallels with the Nazis in Ger­many. ext.-cpt ti>r the fact that the Nazis were actually elected! 
l :.s. lntl'f\'Cntion is by no means a universal cure ti1r world prohkms, but those who have so littk grasp for truth. like Mr. Brennan. and immt·diately condemn the I:.s. without knowing the: facts, arc as dangerous as the insane hawks who encourage invasion as a great solution with just as littk command of the realities of thl.' world political forum. 
Dou lasS. O'Brien, '85 

that we have alienated those our idealism pur­ports to serve. Still others have gone hoarse from shouting that we need to explain what goes on inside our castle to those outside it. 
One would-be Gallahad formally proposed to the editorial hoard in July 1982 -three months before the University first heard the allegations that led in another six months to its investigation -that the paper implement a budget .;ystem. Now, the University is making that same proposal; but from the safe end ofa sword. 
We are so busy varnishing the castle walls 
that we do not notice the termites. 
And yet, the University is mistaken if it ex­
pects The Obseroer to yield easily. We have 
fallen short of our ideals, not forsaken them. 
We have not forgotten our readers. 
Financial accountability to our readership is absolutely necessary. Our aim is, after all, to serve Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. We can­not serve from an ivory tower. But neither can we serve with our hands tied 
If the University signs our checks and has pre-purchase approval as it has proposed, our ability to freely report on University dealings is made questionable. Regardless of the Uni­versity's intentions regarding our news con­tent, it is this questionability itself which is unacceptable. We have failed to make our­selves credible to our readership now --we would necessarily be less credible if readers knew we would have something to lose by stepping too strongly on the wrong toes. 
Not once has the University offered advice or assistance -only ultimatums. The ad­ministration acts like a knight who sees a squire clumsily wielding a sword. Rather than instruct the squire in usc of the sword, however, the knight takes the weapon and dis­misses his servant forever as incompetent. And an evil cycle ofalienation continues. 
The Obsen;er, like the squire, has the tools it needs to right itself in the eyes of the com­munity. The University has forced the paper to examine its failures critically. Measures have been implemented that will prevent 
similar failures. The computerized accounting system which the University audit com­mended in regard to income from Obseroer advertisers is now being put into effect for ex­penses. 
The Obseroer will be able to produce, on demand, a concise and reliable picture of its financial situation through this system. 
The Obseroer has met with student leaders to find better ways to answer questions about student money in our coffers. The ObsenJer has sought student input before. Last year, we scheduled a reader's forum to give students the chance to express their concerns about our operations. Not one reader from either campus showed up. We were hurt to sec that none of those who spend their lunches laugh­ing over our failures could spend halfan hour to offer suggestions. Imagine our pain as we now hear those readers suggest that we have hidden the truth from them and been in­sensitive to their input. 
But like knights pursuing the Grail, we arc undaunted in our search for dialogue. 
We welcome the opportunity to account for ourselves: We have committed errors, not crimes. We need to be accountable in order to serve. But at the same time, our newsroom needs to be free not only of University in­fluence, but also ofany question ofUniversity influence in order to serve. 
And the administration needs us to be free -truly independent, not some misty illusion -in order that we may keep it accountable to those it serves. 
Without an independent paper, the Univer­sity will fail its ideals far more dismally than The Obseroer has done: The gold that gleams on Our Lady of the Lake will create a more deadly illusion ofnobility ofpurpose than Ar­thur and his knights could ever have im­agined. 
Editors Note: Bruce Oakley is a former systems managerofThe Observer. 

The Obsenrer-==  Editorial Board  Depar1ment Managers  
/:(tilor-ill-Cbi£f..... ... .. .. .. .............. Dal'id Dziedzic  
1'. ( ). lit),\'{!. StJtr£' I Jam£'. /.\ -16 S'if>  f.! I 'J) .!3'J-S303  .\ltlllliRillg Fditor....................... :\-largaret Fosm<.c  Business .Htttwger..................<:hri~topher Owen  
lb£' Ohs£'r/'£'r i~ th~· indl-pl'lllknt n~·w:o.papn puhli~hed hy till' student~ of th~· l'ni­ Exenltit•e l:'tliltJr.................................Paul :\k(iinn  Controller ............................. ................Akx Szilvas  
Yer~iiY of Notrl.' Daml.' du l.ac ami ~ailll  :\!an·~< ·.olkgc. It docs not n~"l'l'~~arily rl'lkct  .\'ell'S l:'dilor.................................Boh \'<mdcrheidc  Adt"erlising Manager..  .................kank Pook  
the (X.llidc:o. of the adminbtration of either ins!irution. Th1.· rKws b .-~·ported as ac­ .\'ews Editor... ............................... Mark Wo~·hch  Circulation Mmwg£'r......................... Mark :\fi<>tto  
nrratd\' ami a~ ohj~Ttivl'lr a~ po~~ihil'.  t·n~ignnll'lliiOriab rcprc~cnt thl· opinon ofa  Sai11t Jlarr's /:'dilor ..................Ann~· Monastyrski  .~)•stems Mtmag£'T .........  .. .. Ke\'in Williams  
majorit-y ofth~· hlitorial B;1ard. Comm~·ntaril·~. il'ttcr~. and till' lnsidl· Column pr~·~·nt  .\jJorls Editor ......... .......................:\lichat·l Sullil'an  Composition Mtmag£'T.... ........Suzann~· La Croix  
thl· vil·ws oftlll'ir ;~uthor~. Column ~palT i~ aYailahil' to allllll'lllhl'fs ofthe community.  -....  Features Editor.........................  .Sarah Hamilton  
and tht· fnT t·xpn·"ion of \·an·ing opinions onl·ampu.~. through il'tters. is ~-ncotrrag~·d.  Photo 1:{/itor...  .. ...&·ott Bower  

Founded Nove~ber 3, 1966 



The Bindery 
Thursday, November 10, 1983-page 7 
Making the most of four years 
by Rob ·walsh 
Making College Pay Off 
by Adele Scheele, Ph.D. New York, Ballantine Books, 1983 $2.95 209pages 
r. Adele Scheele'sMakingCol­
D lege Pay 0 ffis a book tailored to students as beginning their college careers. In a sense it gives some ob­vious and not-so-obvious tech­niques on how to make the college learning experience more enrich­ing: forming close ties to a c-ertain professor, joining extracurricular activities, and developing talents to the fullest. Scheele's audience ranges from high school students to fellows at the graduate leveland a good deal ofher book offers advice that is relatively simple. She does of­fer some well conceived insight into more complex areas, however, it is insight that may not be so apparent to the typical Notre Dame student. 
Scheele begins much ofher advice on the ground level, address­ing both extra-curricular activities as well as classroom activities. A great deal ofthis would appear rather trite to a Notre Damestudent, because frankly, ifyou didn't know about these things before you carne here, you wouldn't have been ac­cepted. 
She begins evaluation ofclas­srooms by suggesting a student "get recognition" from their professors by being achievers rather than sus­tainers. In a rather lenghty discourse that follows, she coaches her audience in the well-known art of 
"apple-polishing". Recognizing that tbis audience is rather adept at the art, in varying degrees, it isn't worth mentioning her not-so-unusual fin­dings. But as she proceeds from this J!;round work, she does mention items which may not be so well !mown: how to choose a professor­advisor who is tailored to your career, how to avoid the "Good Stu­dent Trap",also known as blind obedience to authority, and unique ways on how not to go from the 
commencement procession to the unemployment line with your B.A. in French Romanticism. 
Another focus ofher book, while 
Haying in the academic realm, is 
how to make the most oftests and 
papers. Scheele recommends that 
papers be rewritten in classes a stu­
clent particularlyenjoys, not only for 
a learning experience, but also to 
test the depth ofone's interest. She 
also suggests the possibility of 
publishing specific term papers. Al­
l hough most ofwhat is submitted is 
not printed, Scheele does cite some 
real life experiences ofstudent­
writers that have led to references to 
professors or employees, and have 
<:reated unforeseen openings in 
graduate schools and jobs. 
In the second halfofMaking Col­lf!ge Pay Off, Scheele develops the advantages ofextracurricular ac­1 ivities and internships. She suggests joining various clubs and asserting yourselfin order to test your leader­ship abilities, a plan ofaction also known as finding out how much your peers will take. Again, her advice is not a path-breakingfinding. 
But she continues on this plane by 
mentioning unique ways to find 
specific jobs, and not always 
through that mythical ideal "the in­
ternship". Coincidentally, oneofher 
suggestions, visits to and references 
from alumni clubs nearthe school, is 
now in the experimentalstages here 
at Notre Dame. 

The final part ofScheele's book is a question and answer session with sixteen successful people who offer hindsight on their college ex­periences. Interestingly, ten inter­viewees are graduates ofCalifornia colleges and eight are involved in the Some ofthe people interviewed are interesting -Lesley Stahl, CBS white House Correspondent, floun­dered in medical school for over a year before getting into journalism; others are trivial -Gloria Steinem was involved in her idea oftwo "dead-end jobs" atTime-Life, researching for editors and being engaged to marry; and finally, some are not applicable -jayBernstein bad to do extra-curricular activities in high school since he attended an Episcopalian School in the south with a class size oftwenty-two. 
Scheele'sMaking College Pay Off is designed for those students who are beginningcollegeorwho do not feel they are getting the most out of the experience. It succeeds since it is written by someone who is very experienced in the area ofadvising 
students. However, there is much groundwork that the Notre Dame student will have to plow through to find something that is really worthwhile. 

Climbing the ladder in style 
by Rob Vvalsh 
Dress for Success 
by John T. Molloy New York, Warner Books, Hl76 $3.95 239 pages 
D
id you know that upper middle 
class executives wear beige 
raincoats four to one over all over 
colors combined? Or were you 
aware that the best colors in 
sportswear arc navy blue, maroon 
and white? What about the oddity 
that dark blue sportscoatsarc best in 
the Big Apple while in Southern 
California it is an absolute taboo to 
wear anything dark? 
Perhaps these questions appear supersilious, and their answers not worth pursuing. But according to John T. Molloy, the self-proclaimed world's first wardrobe engineer, such answers may mean the dif­ference between job promotion and career stagnation. In his book, Dress 
for Success, Malloy presents the 
results offifteen years of research 
stemming from over 15,000 inter­
views with executives and profes­
sionals. To some extent the findings 
in this book prove that the clothes 
you wear evoke conditioned 
responses from the people you 
meet. However, some college stu­
dents may think Dressfor Success 
would make better material for 
Johnny Carson's monologue. 
In this book, Molloy advises on only male wardrobes, tackling 
everything from suits to gym shorts. He justifies this exclusion by saying Lhat the "complex phenomenon" of each sex's wardrobe demands a :;eparate book so to be adequately covered. A few years after the first edition ofDressforSuccess, Molloy did publish a Dressfor Successfor Women. 
Molloy first covers the issue of purchasing a businessman's wardrobe. He does this well, iddressing everything from how to pick your style, to the psychological association ofsuits. He proceeds with advice on wardrobes, dedicat­ingcomplete chapters to what shirts and ties best suit your suit. Much to his advantage (and the reader's relief) Molloy does not give a single ideal ofchoosinga wardrobe; rather, he often personalizes his findings to accommodate a wide variety of readers. 
The author also lends his knowledge to accessories, often critically: wallets ("always carry American Express, hut only because it is prestigious"); pencils ("no man who writes with a S25 pencil will ever be called a slob"); and watches ("no Mickey Mouse, thank you"). 
In an effort to cover what a man 
0 0 0
""' ' • •• 0 '0 •" ..... "' 

needs to complete his entire wardrobe, Molloy attempts small chapters on "The Do's and Don't of Sport Clothes and Formal Wear." These address various "looks." The Equestrian Look, for example is a classic. Success in the business world is one thing, but it is not the be all and end all ofattire. For this reason, Molloy includes "How to Dress for Success with Women." It is the opinion ofthis reviewer that the author should return to the office. Thankfully he does, ncar the end of the book. For the already established executive the author gives advice focused at the appearance ofthe office and how to boost the cor­porate image. 
The last chapterofhis book is per­haps his best and most useful to the college male. Molloy offers sugges­tions directed specifically to the job interviewee. His recommendations apply not only for those interview­ing, but also those who will be "spending a day on the job." 
On the whole, Molloy seems to address those men who desire to climb the corporate ladder, employ­ing every advantage possible. Sometimes he becomes too psycho­logical, too conditional "Pinstripes work in the East, but only ifyou're a conserative individual who isn't too taiL" But in general, his book can be a valuable lesson to those who need to "sell themselves." Through his entire book, a college student, in particular, can become acquainted with what corporate officials look for in their young executives. And, as Molloy says, "They're not being unreasonable when they start track­ing you at twenty-two;_t~~y're being practical." 
.... .. . -.............. .
~ ~ 
0 0 0 0 0

'' • • • 0 o •• o • T e .... e ••• 0 o. I • 
A first try at sci fi for Hemmingway 
by Beth DeSchryver 
Pzyche 

by Amanda Hemmingway New York, Arbor House, 1983 $13.95 250pages 
P 
zyche the first novel by Amanda Hemmingway, is a soft core science fiction tale that reveals some interestingexperiments in character development. 
Pzyche Corazin, age 23, has been raised by her psychologist father on the nearly deserted world ofKrake. She is almost totally secluded from other human beings until the arrival ofher sister Troe, who journeys to Krake after her mother's death to meet her estranged father and sister. There, the two sisters attract the attention ofa nearby mining settlement, but because ofPzyche's defensive "experiments," the miners seek to murder Pzyche and her father. They partly succeed, but are killed themselves by a new mining operation that seeks to exploit Krake for its rare minerals. These new men take an unhealthy interest in Pzyche, an interest aggravated by the arrival ofa science exploration team from Troe's world who wish to examine the remains ofan ancient civilization and inadver­
tantly discover what the miningoperation is after. The fate ofKrake, while not wholly unexpected, is a certain poetic justice for all in­volved 
The plot ofPzycbe is basically a standard adventure story with stock supportingcharacters -callous men grubbingfor wealth and power, an immensely powerful underworld, sudden riches turned to poverty, perverse sexual interests, and a "bad guy" sidingwith the "good guys" for love... ifthis were all there is toPzycbe, I would not have anyone take a second look. 
The interesting aspect ofPzycbe, however, lies in its character portrayal and contrast. Pzyche Corazin has been virtually raised by a computer, having almost no contact with her psychologist father who, ironically, prefers to avoid people inorder to concentrate on his research. Pzychc has read ofmany things yet has experienced al­most nothing. She is cold, almost mechanical, being very scientific and methodical in her relationships to the new arrivals but not knowing how to deal with their emotions or her own. She knows a great deal ofpsychology but docs not understand people. For all her intelligence, she is in many ways defenseless. She's the embodiment ofa theory that has never been tested in the field. 
HersisterTroe, on the other hand, was raised in a society that has rejected technology in favor ofdeveloping philosphy t and art. Yet, her world is static. 
Troe, while possessing little technical knowledge, does under­stand people, but has a very set way ofapproaching relationships. She feels a strong love for Pzychc, not because ofPzyche's per· sonality but because that is what one feels for one's sister. She sees herselfas Pzyche's protector yet, by the end ofthe story, the tables turn and Pzychc becomes her leader. 
The leading male characters have an equally bizarre upbringing. Both Varagin and Calath were raised in an experimental commune of 300 children who were allowed to do whatever they pleased -and yet, the two men turned out to be near opposites. Caleth, one ofthe few children to have experienced some family life prior to the commun t e, develops a strong sense ofsocial duty and high morals. Varagin, howcv-=:r, devotes himselfto training in absolute self­control -butdevelops no morals whatsoever. Yet, they both carry a mark ofsimilarity; as Calcth says, he could always recognize a child from the commune, even though they all avoided each other. 
Pzyche, then, while not havinga highly original plot, does present some interesting hypothetical case studies ofdifferent personalities arising from very different societies. It also explores how all these backgrounds can come together in a common experience that lets characters step beyond what they've been conditioned to be. The psychological aspects ofthe story, however, are left somewhat two dimensional. To my disappointment, they were dropped in _favor of movingthe plot line along. This is not a work oforiginal genius, but it is enjoyable (ifyou like adventure stories) and docs present some interesting ideas concerning psychology, the limitations of stereotypes, etc. Ifyour interests run along these lines, you might en­joy taking a look atPzycbe. 
o 




Sports Briefs 
TheKarateCh.Jb of Notre Dame is still looking for new members. Those interested should attend practice tonight at 7 in the fencing gym of the ACC. -The Obsen1er 
The off-campus IH football team is 
S<:heduled to return equipment today by 7 p.m. Equipment should be brought into Gate 9 ofthe football stadium. -The Observer 
The second annual "Turkey Shoot," a 
co-ree target shooting contest, is being sponsored by NVA. No ex· pericnce is necessary. You must reserve a time for your team oftwo men and two women. The deadline for sign-up is tomorrow, Nov. I I. Call 2:~9-61 00 for more information. -The Obsen,er 
The ND Football Banquetwill be held Monday, 
Nov. 21 at the ACC. The night begins with cocktaifs at S:30 p.m. with dinnt·r following at 7 p.m. Former Irish All-America running back Creighton Miller will be the toastmaster for the night. The featured guests and speakers will be all six of Notre Dame's Heisman Trophy winners. Tickl·t information is available: by contacting Hugh Rl'ynolds at eithl'r 232·3992 or 2H9·4303. -The Obsen'er 
Basketball ticketsarl' still availabll'. A limited number of non·rencwablt· hll'a(.·hl'r season tickl'ts are now on sale fi>r the 19H3·H-4 mt·n's l'ampaign. They will hl' on sale through Nov. 16 at <iatl' 10 of thl' ACC which is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday. -The Obserr•er 
Thursday, November 10, 1983-page 8 
Midwest preview 
Iowa, MSU expected to triumph 
ByJOE MOOSHIL 
AP Sports Writer 
Iowa and Michigan State will be 
the key teams in the Big Ten basket­
ball race this season but in the Mid· 
west much of the collegiate interest 
will be centered on independent De 
Paul. 

Ray Meyer will be coaching his 42nd and final season at DePaul before passing the torch to son Joey Meyer. While it promises to be an emotional season for the Blue Demons, it could also prove to be distracting. 
DePaul has four starters returning from last year's NIT runnerups plus promising freshmen in Dallas Com­egys and Lawrence West. There's just enough talent around to make Meyer dream of another trip to the final four in the NCAA. 
"I know it's shooting for the moon," said Meyer, who also fears distractions resulting in DePaul's every game away from home with the theme being, "Come sec Ray Meyer the final time_." 
Iowa has a new coach in George Raveling but Lute Olson left him some outstanding talent. including the "Twin Towers" of 6-10 Greg Stokes and 6-9 Michael Payne. In the backcourt, Iowa will be well protected by Steve Carfino and Andre Banks. 
Michigan State has depth and the best team Coach jud Heathcote has fielded since the 1979 NCAA cham­pions with the top stars being 7-0 Kevin Will is and guard Sam Vincent. 
Indiana's defending champions lost Ted Kitchel and Randy Wittman, two of the Big Ten's top scorers last season, but Coach l}obby Knight has 7·2 Uwe Blab returning. With Knight 
in charge, Indiana can never be 
counted out. 

Purdue might have trouble: finish· ing in the first division but Illinois Coach Lou Henson has a sound nucleus with the likes of Efrem Win· ter, Bruce Douglas and Anthony 
.Welch. 

Aside from DePaul, Marquette and Notre Dame represent independent powers. 

Hockey Standings 
In thiS years NHL playoff format. the top four teams 1n each diviSIOn make the playoffs. regardless of over­allleague stand1ng 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Adams Division Smythe Dvlslon w L T GF GA Pis. w L T GF GA Pis Boston tO 4 1 76 45 21 Edmonton 14 2 1 102 71 29 
Quebec 9 7 2 94 67 20 Calgary 6 7 3 56 59 15 Buffalo 7 6 3 54 59 17 Vancouver 6 8 1 69 69 13 Hartford 7 7 1 53 60 15 Los Angeles 3 8 5 63 74 11 Montreal 7 8 0 64 62 14 W1nn1peg 4 9 2 56 78 10 
Patrick Division Norris Division 
24 Ch1cago 8 8 0 64 66 16 Toronto 7 7 2 73 80 16 N Y. Rangers 11 4 2 71 54 
Philadelphia 10 6 1 71 57 21 N.Y. Islanders 10 6 1 70 54 
21 Si LOUIS 7 7 1 58 62 15 Detro11 6 6 2 54 57 14Wash1ng1on 7 9 0 50 61 14 Mmnesota 6 8 1 66 79 13
Pi11sburgh 4 10 2 43 74 10 New Jersey 2 14 0 43 74 4 
Yesterday's Results 
Buffalo 3, Boston 1 
N. Y Rangers 4 Calgary 3 Edmonton 7. Washington 4 Minnesota 5. Detro1t 3 Toronto 2. New Jersey 1 Montreal 3. -Gh1cago 0 Winn1peg at Vancouver, late 
The Observer Lafortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. lo 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. lo 3 p.m. 
Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in per­
son or by mail. 'Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per day. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOST' A BLUE BACKPACK LAST WEEK SOME TIME IN IT WAS A GREEN FOL­DER AND NOTEBOOK. MY NAME IS ON  Need nde to Penn St' Call Rosanne at 277·8510  Need:2 or 3 A1rforce GA's and 1 or 2 Stu­dent Tix. Call John at 1579!!!!  PRESENTATION..Conducting a Ma1l Campa1gn--How to write effective resumes and .cg_ver letters. Thurs.. Nov.  GRACE-Pretty sponlaneous? Oh Yeah! Love lhe 'Lad1es'(C.K. and her sidekick)  
PRO-TYPE. 12 yrs. expenence Spec1allz1ng 1n d1ssertat1ons. manuscnpts. theses. and student papers Call277-58331or rates EXPERIENCED TYPIST Mrs Bedford 288·2107 Hours 9 a.m. lo 5 p m . Man lhru Fn EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING Reasonable rates Call 287­5162 $ $ Part t1me employment available tor energettc student Good sales ex­penance Sel own hours Reputable. expandmg company For 1ntervtew call Bob al259-3957 PUBLIC LANDS FILMS· TONIGHT AT THE C.S.C 7pm sponsored by your en­VIronmental concerns orgamzahon. . be there NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -PLEASE CALL PAUL McGINN AT 2n-4851 OR 239­5313. GSU FOOTBALL PARTY! Food & Fun & ND Football 1 00 pm Sat. Nov 12 At SA BAAl (FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY)  THE OUTSIDE POCKET:ROBERT B NEWHOUSE I AEALLY NEED THESE BACK REWARD PLEASE CALL BOB AT 3641 OR RETURN TO 405 MORRIS· SEY THANKS LOST-SMC GOLD CLASS RING wilh LAB 85 1nscripllon. 11 you know ANY­THING, PLEASE !I call 284·5176 FOUND OUTSIDE MADELEVA HALL­gold pendant wtth inttlals MWM and Hap­py 21st on lhe back-call to cla1m 284-4389 HELPI CAN'T SEEI LOST · PAIR OF GLASSES. "GEMINI" IN BLACK CASE (EYE CARE DOC­TORS, WICKUFFE, OHIO). BROWN FRAMES, CLEAR PLASTIC LENSES. LOST 10119 POSIBLY IN ENGINEER­ING AUDITORIUM. CALL JOHN 3254. FOUND: HAND KNIT SWEATER ON PATH NEAR MUSIC BLDG. ON TUES­DAY, 1111 CALL 277-3443 II you lost a watch 1n front ol Haggar Cen­ter. I have 1t. Call L1sa x5250 FOR RENT  EAST? NEED AIDE TO EXIT 7 OHIO 'PIKE NOV 11·13 CALL. STEVE 1516 NEED AIDE TO THE PENN STATE GAME will be able to by rate afternoon on Fri. call Tom 277-4283 RIDE NEEDED TO BOSTON . MON 21ST OR TUE 22nd. 239· 7139 NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -CAN LEAVE ANYTIME-CALL PAUL McGINN AT 239-5313 OR 277-41151. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO BUF· FALO FOR THANKSGIVING-PLEASE CALL PAT AT 8423 NEED RIDE 10 PENN STATE. Can leave Thurs. mght or later Mary Bus hman. 1992 wanted nders to Mtamt OH. weekend of 11111 call Mark at 234·8248 FOR SALE STEREO KENWOOD BASE/GLENBURN TUAN/JVC CAS· SETIE/E V SPKRS ALL LIKE NEW.. MOVING OVESEAS & MUST  NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's. CALLJEAAY AT 1744 WANTED1111-Six Penn Slate GA's. Call Tom Hollerbach collect at (312) 565­5959. NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S DAVE 283­1650 NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S! DAVE 8238. NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD. TIXS CALL ~·An 1206 Need 3 or 4 GAs lor Air Force. Call Steve at 232·0550. AWK..NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL TED AT 288·0137 FOR SALE·2 AIR FORCE STUDENT TIXS-BEST OFFER-CALL 284·4389 Desperately need 4·6 Air Force GA's lor New Jersey relatives!!! Call Cindy (5195) a1SMC Need 2 A1r Force GA's. Parenls REALLY wan11o see a game! Charlene 2909. Need 1 Air Force studen11icket1Call4061  10..7:00 p.m. Room 118 N1euwland Science Hall Paul Reynolds ol Career and Placement Serv1ces. All students welcome HELP!II 1 need a ride to the Pittsburgh area lor T -day break. Call Mary 3803 Faust/Paterna Produc11ons presents THE KOHOUTEK BOWL Notre Dame vs. Penn Slate November 12. 1983 State College. PA Proceeds to the Honesty in Sports Com· mlllee. Needed Accord1an Player lor FIDDLER ON THE ROOF. Conlact Mary Stevens at 239-7757 environmental concerns films on thursday night at lhe esc, 7 pm. if you care about the environment. you'll be there! t1tles are: COMMON GROUND· CHANG­ING VALUES AND THE NATIONAL FOREST, and WILD AMERICA­WHO NEEDS IT? TRUDEE, HAPPY '18TH BIRTHDAY LOVE, DOROTHY, FRANK & BOB  FIDDLER IS COMING I A TRADITION. FIDDLER ON THE ROOFI LECTURE SERIES T The Artistic Process: WHAT IS ART? 4 Thursday nights at The SNITE Nov. 10, 17, Dec. 1, 8 Lecture 1: "PAINTING" by Stephen Spiro Nov. 10,7:30 p.m. Admission: 52 gen. public; $1 stu­dents, Friends. THE ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART L1sten to WSND Sunday N1te lor RADIO WARS between Fisher basement & Lyons RADIO WARS Your So Va1n? ··A pretty weak request from Lyons to F1sher PORTIA JEAN lhe sex mach1ne IS today 18. See her 1n her birthday su1t. look1ng oh so lean. Though she doesn·l know me. and m1ghl th1nk my name Chns. I lh1nk you should l1nd her today. and g1ve her a big kiSS. Happy Birthday. P J.! There was a young man from Ed1na.  
LOST/FOUND LOST.NAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET TO THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE  HOUSEMATE FEMALE $175 MO EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO ND. GROCERY STORE. FURNISHED 233-6081 FURNISHED HOUSE. CLOSE TO N.D. GOOD AREA 277-3604  SELL ..$375 ALSO COLOR T.V 19' $.25 CABIN TENT 13 X 9 ...$45.AING a1234·8858. House for sale one m1le north of campus. Good ne1ghborhood.good tax she"er for parents. 3 B t ed-112 acre. Call days 256­5611 or mghts 233-3997  PERSONALS BED AND BREAKFAST Football weekends lor ND parents. Two (2) night mimmum. 10 mins. from campus. 272­5640  PAT. PAT. PAT. PAT (SMOKEY) NOV 12 HAPPY BIRTHDAY I!! TO THE BEST ROOMATE I'VE EVER HAD IN MORRIS· SEY I HAPPY 21 ST WOODIE MOVIE-THE GRADUATE Haggar Center·SMC thur. 11110 7:00 & 9:15$1  And qutte a mce fellow well, k1na, The day of h1s b1rth We welcome all m1rth. For today he has h1t ten and nuna. So it you should happen to vuew h1m. Wish a 'Happy Birthday to you.. h1m. Oh. matterollac·ly. The lad's name IS Jack Lee.  
FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT8810  GARAGE 2 BLOCKS FROM N D. 277­3604  FOR SALE A DELCO CAR STEREO CALL 283·8046 BEST OFFER  DO YOU LIKE MISS MANNERS? The Observer Showcase Sec11on would like lo  JEN. PERSONALS ARE FUN BUT NO­THING COMPARED TO THE LAST YEAR THANX. LOVE. DAVE  And not yet in the lake have we threw h1m. ONCE AGAIN HAPPY BIRTHDAY HAP­ 
LOST GOLD TIMEX WATCH Lost aboul 1 month ago PLEASE call3751 HELPIIIILOST. I am Lost along with my glasses!!! They are nmtess Wlreframes­SIIver. glass IS slightly t1nted Please call  APT UTILITIES PAID 288-0955. MALE ROOMMATE WANTED START­ING JANUARY AT CASTLE POINT A NICE THREE BEDROOM APT RENT $150 A MONTH PLUS UTILITIES CALL  LIKE NEW DP 3900 DELUXE CHROME MULTI-PURPOSE LEG LIFT INCLINE BENCH WITH COMPLETE BARBELL AND DUMBELL SET · $75. CALL MARILYN 6634  know. Feeling opinionated? Address your responses in blue or blue-black ink on while wriling paper to. Showcase Edilor. The Observer, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame (Use proper grammar. of course.)  I think it would be tun to run a newspaper BEAUX ARTS BALL BLACK & WHITE  py JACK!I HEY!!! Carole and Maura and alllhe resl ol you. Are you ready for Fnday mght??? rm psyched!!I  
Doug at 4625 Reward promised!! If's been almost two months and rm g01ng bltndl LOST. Necklace P1nk pearls (fake) Losl 1n Lew1s. Keenan. or some where 1n be­tween on Sunday Please call Mary Bush­man a11992 LOST. One Fusch1a Whammy! Toy Pislol. Great sentimental value II found, please call PatriCk at 1754 anyt1me  272-5289 NOW TWO PEOPLE BUNGALOW PRIVATE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 288· 0955/277-3604 WANTED  1972 PONTIAC CATALINA. 4 DR. NEW TIRES -GOOD CONDITION. GOOD PAINT WINTERIZED. PLEASE CALL AFTER 6 PM 287·9343 EXOTIC PETS. snakes, lizards, turtles, tarantulas, amphibians, birds, mam­mals. Largest selection In U.S. Mid· west Reptile, 1520 Mishawaka Ave., 232-2095, 2 mi. from N.D.  Gentle Reader: Do you eagerly awa1t your Wednesday luncheon so that you may peruse lhe Showcase sectiOn ol your Observer? II so. gentle reader. then you are probably a M1ss Manners fan. The Showcase sect1on w1shes to hear from its readers. Is Jud1th Martin a PROPER add1· tion to this fine publication? Do you like her columns or readers· leners better? R.S.V.P. tolhe Showcase Editor. The Ob· server, P.O Box 0. Notre Dame. Please  ALL NIGHT NOV. 11 10:00· till lhe last person stops dancin BEAUX ARTS BALL WHAT'S THE BEST.LONGEST.AVANTE GARDE PARTY ON CAMPUS? BEAUX ARTS BALL· BE PART OF A TRADITION GSU FOOTBALL FUNI Sat Nov 12. 1.00 pm. SR. BAA' Dear Gift. Happy 201h (will you ever lei me  B llove you K Dave, Does all th1s mean you don t love me anymore? your SISter? L1sa To the counlry boys back home You ve come a long way Good luck w1th your JOb Heartland. Johnny Jumor, You JUSt can 1 seem 10 get the clue. Love. Mary Junior  
Los1· grey scarf w1th bu11ons in section 31 al the Pitt game Please help me lind 1t before it turns really cold. 284·4391 HELP!! I LOST A GOLD MEDALLION IN THE ACC ON MON NOV 81T HAS THE INITIALS M LA ENGRAVED ON THE BACK AND SAYS FLORIDA CHAM­ 2roomateslorN.D apts Call234·9116 WANTED RIDERS TO THE LEHIGH VALLEY (or thereabouts) FOR TURKEY DAY .. CALL MIKE AT 277-6055 3 RIDES NEEDED TO PITTSURGH FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. LEA'IING THE 22ND OR 23RD. WILL SHARE  TiCKETS.L I need tickets to any remam1ng home game (NAVY. PITI. or AIR FORCE) Call Joe a11208 BEFORE you sell yours.  write neatly. Seductress, Today marks the second anniversary of my Enlightenment. May you one day accept that your life has great value. Siddartha Gautama  forget it) bnrthday. It was n1ce being your age for a week. Have a great day, and good luck in your old age. Love. A Young· er Adm1rer P.S. Happy Anniversary! PITISBURGH CLUB THANKSGIVING BUS SIGNUPS SUNDAY. NOVEMBER 13. 7:()(}8.00 PM LaFORTUNE UTILE THEATRE FIRST COME. FIRST  To the g1rl who returned my $34.95 Cal· culus book PLEASE call me. I'd really like to THANK YOUI You re really spec1al! P Murphy L1sa HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Sorry 11 sa day lale. but. well you know .. Love. Pat  
PIONS AROUND THE YELLOW STONE  USUAL EXPENSES,ETC. CALL VIC AT  ..............................................................  SERVED  Uke a rat in a maze,  
THE HIGH SCHOOL NAME ENGRAVED  239-7471  OR  283-3406.  PLEASE  NEED. TWO AIR FORCE GA'S.. WILL  Riders needed to Psnn State, 8 spots  The path be/ore me lies.  
ONITISCAADINALNEWMAN PLEASE  LEAVE MESSAGE.  PAY  $$$  BECAUSE  ITS  NOT  MY  open.LeavingFndayalnooninaU-Haul.  JOHN TALLAAIDA HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!  And the pattern never alters  
HELP ME OUT BY CALLING MAAILUAT 6724fil.EASE, IT HAS A LOT OF SEN·  RIDERS NEEDED TO BOSTON,FORT·  MONEY KEN 1601  ,_  ,  ,  $25 round trip. Call1434  MUGS. I wish I could be there lo WISh you  Until the rat dies.  , , .. ,1  ..  

TIMEiiii.TAL VALUE THANKYOU CALL GIVING, Leaving 11118. Return 11127. .... ·:· a Happy B·Day. Have a GREAT and -Simon & Gar1unkel • • 672~·.• • •,·.-? .-.-.·,·,·,·,-,·,·,·,-,·,·,-~H,GJ,b;,lf>112.a0._, J1.Pf'\, •..._.,., , , •... NEiDAi'-~A.q-f$E_A;H,~9, •,·,·,·,·.·.-.·,·.·~fl!inpJII(ejnP'/PI!Q!(eqcp.•~tljece?, ·,·,·,·,·,'$f\l'~ l$1\"lt!lYE'YOtJ.I:fr:-::-* ~ · · .... "'.~..:·.?...••• _.............. . 6 •• ·'.~ ...... 1l. " . ' .t..f..!'.,,..,,..•••••.~.. ~...~ ••.,,.,.,.~ ..~ ..~..~.. ~...':.~.~.:-:.~.~ .. : ..~..~--~·-'"· ........tt..;t:~~-~-:: .... :..::. ·.' :.'. ~--~--~ ..~ ..! .. ~.. ~.. ~..:':..~ ..~..~..~...... ····'··"··'·· .':.!:..': ..~ ..~. -~-.!.. ~..~. -~--~.. ~ ..~ ..~..~..~..~ .••••..~.-~ ..-~.• ~.. ~.. ~..:": ..~. ~ •.~-~ ...~-..~.-~.-~..~.. ~ .. :.. .. : ...................:...:.d.................:.....:........_,.,..
• 

The Observer Thursday, November 10,1983-page9 

Middleweight champion Maroin Hagler takes a breather between rounds of shadowboxing with his trainer at Caesar's Palace in Las Vegas Tuesday night. 
PAYABI.E 
UF~ON 
RETURN 
A Play by Student Michael Varga 
Available at the NO Bookstore 
Juniper Press 

Hagler takes on Duran in defense of title 
"This is what a championship fight is all about. This is what a fighter wants ...to get the proper ex­posure, get the proper attention," said the bald, mustachioed Hagler, who more than a year ago legally changed his name to Marvelous Mar­vin. 
"This is the fight I've been waiting for." 
Hagler is about a 3-1 favorite to win the scheduled 15-round bout at a 15,200-seat outdoor arena at Caesars Palace. It will be seen on closed-circuit television throughout the United States and Canada. 
The fight will start between 10:30 
p.m. and 11 p.m. EDT. 
When Duran became the seventh man to win three titles by stopping Moore in the eighth round for the World Boxing Association 154­pound class title June 16 in New York, he returned to Panama in the executive jet of President Ricardo de Ia Espriella. 
But after fighting Leonard on Nov. 
25, 1980, Duran was mocked in his 
native land. On that night he quit in 
the eighth round, claiming stomach 
cramps, and lost the World Boxing 
Council welterweight title. 
The general feeling was that the fearsome lightweight champion of the 1970s, known as "Hands of Stone," was finished as a fighter. 
His "rebirth" has been a big human interest story. 
"Everybody says and writes, 'Duran, Duran, Duran,"' said Hagler. "So, when I dump Duran there'll be no excuses." 
It rankles Hagler, who has won all seven of his title defenses by knock­out, that critics say his opposition has been weak, and he feels this fight will stop such criticism. 
BEEI~ 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
7.99

241oose 
STROHS ReQular or Llgh1 
6.99

241oose 
BUDWEISER 
7.99

241oose 
BUSCH 
6.99

241oose 
MEISTER BRAU 
5.49

241oose 
OLD MILWAUKEE 
5.29

241oose 
QUARTS BUDWEISER 8.99 OLD MILWAUKEIE 6.99 



KEG:S 
BUDWEISER 29.99 
Half BBL 
OLD STYLE 27.99 
Half BBL 
OLD MILWAUKEE 23.99 
Half BBL '.1 •y 1'\ ~·'I.,, ,....,;<1 41 t..•L • ' , -. , ,"'· 1_•• .. 
.•.".' .~.. :_ ~ .... _ .....i.. ~r·r;, , ~ .:.,1 •. "•·".' . , o ,·: '"-'-. 
The Best Picture ofthe Year 
Nt>"-York Film Critic-~ National Hoard of RPvirw 
Best Actor of the Year -Ben Kingsley 
Nt>w York Film ('riti<'s National Roard of Rf''\'it>\Oo Los Anreles Film Crith•s A!i!oot·. 

GANDHI 
His triumph changed the world forever.O 
ffi-,_,"__..,_,,_,.,.,_!!!! 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -Roberto Duran will 
challenge undisputed middleweight 
champion Marvelous Marvin Hagler 
tonight, almost three years since he 
quit in disgrace against Sugar Ray 
Leonard. 
It is a movie script fight. 

Duran, 32, "born again" when he 
beat young Davey Moore for a share 
ofthe junior middleweight title, will 
try to become the first fighter to win 
titles in four classes. 

"I think I've trained harder for this fight than any fight of my life," said Duran, "because I'm going for a fourth title and because most people say Marvin Hagler is invincible." 
Hagler, 29, who has fought in the shadow of others despite his success, feels that at last he has found the kind of showcase his talent deserves. 
Friday & Saturday 
6:30 and 10:00 
$2 

Engineerina Auditorium 
Sponsored by N:'D. Student Union 



PRICES GOOD THRU 
NOVEMBER 12, 1983 South Bend Ave. Store Onl 
LIQUOR 
BEAM'S BLEND 8.99 
1.7511ter 

TANQUERAY GIN 8.99 
750ml 

JACK DANIEL'S 7.99 
750ml 

KING CELLAR VODKA 7.49 
1.7511ter 

KAHLUA 8.99 
750ml 

ARANDAS TEQUILA 10.49 
1.7511ter 


J ROGET CHAMPAGNE 
1.99 
, r ••~ 

A WORLD OF WINES IV 
Thursday, 
November 10, 1983 
5:00 · 9:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame ACC $5.00 Donation 
Wine and Cheese A Benefit for the American Heart Association 
Over130 wines will be available for tasting 
You may taste as few or as many as you wish. 
Come One Come AI/ 
But remember· You must be 21 to enter. 
: ~.-._,}f,'i' '~:,-_~1 'J'l ,1" ~~· .:.:' .. • '1 ..1 ....J \ ':.\• .,I .•"\:'"'1"..1 
I',; ~ l.. I \1

_.,.., ,rr,', •""" r.• . •"./•; j II~> • ,··, ']' j ... 
Thursday, November 10, 1983-page 10 
The Observer 
• • . O'Brien 
Applications for 

continuedfrom page 12 
the position of



NBA Standings 
He took over at the beginning of agency and allowed the league to the free-agent era, a time when labor merge with the American Basketball 
Eaatern Conference Atlantic Division w L  Pet.  GB  Western Conference Midwest Division w L  Pet.  GB  and financial disputes were just coming to the forefront in sports, and he had a reputation as a  Association. That brought into the NBA from the ABA four new teams -the New jersey Nets, the Denver  Assistant Sports Editor  
Boston New Jersey Philadelphta New York Washington Milwaukee AUanta Detroit Chtcago lnd1ana Cleveland  6 1 4 2 4 2 2 4 2 5 Central Division 5 2 3 3 3 3 2 3 2 4 2 5  857 -Dallas 667 t 5 Denver .667 t .5 San Anton to .333 3.5 Utah 286 4 Houston Kansas Ctly 7114 500 1.5 Portland 500 t.5 Golden Stl'te 400 2 Los Angeles 333 2.5 Seattle 286 3 San Otego Phoen1x Yeaterdey'a Results  4 3 3 3 3 4 2 3 2 4 2 5 Pacific Division 5 2 4 2 4 2 5 3 3 4 1  .571 .500 .429 .400 .333 .286 .714 .667 .667 .625 429 .200  .5 1 t t.5 2 .5 5 5 2 3  mediator and conciliator. A man who got his start in Massa­chusetts as a political aide to the late President John F. Kennedy, he sub­sequently worked for Kennedy's brother, Robert; for the late Presi­dent Lyndon Johnson; as U.S. postmaster general and twice as Democratic national chairman. He said yesterday the high point  Rockets, the San Antonio Spurs and the Indiana Pacers. He also cited last year's agreement with the NBA players Association on strict penalties for drug abuse and the settlement ofa contract with the players' union last year that set limits on the amount any single team can pay in salaries. O'Brien said there have been "disappointments and frustrations"  are now being accepted. See Mike SaUivan in the Ohserveroffice. The d~adllne is  
Boston 129. San Otego 122 New Jersey t27. Washtngton 110 Detrott 120. Phtladelphta 116  of his NBA tenure was the settle­ment in 1976 of the suit filed by for­ -like the current contract impasse that has resulted in the walkout of  Friday, November ·11  
Milwaukee 95. Kansas Ctty 93  mer  NBA  star  Oscar  Robertson,  NBA referees and the failure to ex­ 
San Anlonto 1 05. Utah 99 Los Angeles 120. Dallas 1 06  which  opened  the  way  to  free  pand  beyond  23  teams.  

Seanle 113. Cleveland 101 
rc-orby}] 

5-Spm Mon.-Fri. Happy Hour ~~···· MIXED DRINKS .... 2 for 1 12oz. DRAFTS ........ SOc 
the Plants and Flowers ehop Baeeaaent• Leman• HaD. SMC Caeh a Can, Everyday Low Prices 
Roeee: $10/doz. A ap Sweetheart Roeee: $6.50I doz. & ap caD for •oreInfo: 284-4597 
WIRE SERVICE NOW AVAILABLE 
poc.--~~....cr...o-~~~_,........c;r~...r...r1 
THE MIDWEST NOSTALGIA COMPANY ~ 
will be at Scottsdale Mall 
I 

November 10. 13 with an enormous selection of IS 
Beatie items, baseball cards, movie posters, rock group pins and buttons, and quality nostalgia and memorabilia. 
~ November 10-13, 2nd floor by L.S. Ayres § L~...oocr_,....,....,...~.,....,.....;QOO'"'.r.,......o:l 
r••••••••••••••Discount Coupon•••••••••••••••• 
r:,~~~ MATERNOWSKI MARKET 15'-1~ '1,()0 1° 104 Dixie Way No Roseland 4533-31 ~0% ~ 
1st Stoplight No of StMary's Entrance Open Daily 10 • 6 Fruit· Vegetables· Produce Daily Specials -Low Prices Everyday 
Apples-Cider-Oranges-Grapefruit-Bananas Pineapple-Kiwi-Grapes-Cranberries-Yams Dried Fruit-Munchies Snax -Honey-Maple Syrup Nuts-Dates-Figs-Pop Corn 
................,Expires 11/30/83,·-------------a 

"On Nov.17th, adopt
Help a fnend get through the day without acigarette. They m1ght JUSt quit 



afriend

forever. And that's 1moortant Because good fr f nds are hard to find. 
who

And even tougher to lose 

smokes:' 


BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students bnd faculty. 
In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m. · 3:30 p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 
~source
-.aank 
Member F.D.I.C. 


A WORLD OF WINES IV 
Thursday, November 10, 1983 
5:00 · 9:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame ACC $5.00 Donation 
Wine and Cheese A Benefit for the American Heart Association 
Over130 wines will be available for tasting 
You may taste as few or as many as you wish. 

Come One Come AI/ 



~4CJt.cllC3L~-------------------------------------Th--u_r_~_a•y-,N--ov_e_m_be
__r_l_o_,_1_9_8_3___P_ag_e___ll 
Bloom Coulnty 
Berke Breathed 
HUW. WOK IT VP, 
I'Cl-!tWH ·FOR ·BRAINS. 
\ t 
Photius 

THAT'S FUNNY, . .. Yoti'K£ NOT G_ETrt/114 ANY ClEDIT Et TliEI?. 



Campus . . 
•12 
· 4 p.m. -MBA Mini Forum, Representatives from MBA Schools will be available to talk with stu· dents, LaFortunte Student Center 2nd Floor, Sponsored by Career and Placesment Services 

•4 
p.m.·-Radiation Lab Seminar, "Picosecond Geminate Charge Pair Recombination," Prof Charles Braun, Rad. Lab Conference Theatre 

•4:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Institutional Church and 'The Popular' in Columbia," Dr. Danil Levine, 1 1 5 Law School 

•4:30 
p.m. -Slide Show, "Space Weapons-The Next Arms Race," Center for Social Concerns, Free 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Perceptions Concerning the Malformed Infant," Prof Robert]. Gorlin, Galvin Ufe Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation, Writing Effective Resume and Cover Letters, Paul Reynolds, 118 NSH, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "History of the World, Part 1," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Union 7 p.m. 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Human Rights in Latin America," Prof. Denis Goulet, Stapleton Lounge, SMC, Sponsored by SMCJustice Education Depart­ment, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Artistic Process: Paint· ing," Stephen Spiro, Annenberg Auditorium, s I friends and students 

•7:30 
p.m. -Liturgy of Evening Prayer. Luther Quincentenary Celebration, Sacred Heart Church 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Concert, Little Theatre, SMC 

•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "A Call to Peacemaking," Father Henri].M. Nouwen, Library Auditorium 

•8:30 
p.m. -Organ Concert, Luther Quincenten­ary Celebration, Prof. Craig). Cramer, and Robert 

D. 
Hawkins, Sacred Heart Church 


TV Tonight · · 
8:30p.m.  16  MaMa's Family  
9p.m.  16  We Got it Made  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  9 to 5  
34  All Creatures Great and Small  
9:30p.m.  16  Cheers  
28  It's Not Easy  
10p.m.  16  HiU Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Sneak Previews  


Far Side . 
11-10 c Chron1cle Featurea. 

11-!15 15 ~MB. 
FRANK\...Y, I SU5PECT 
VOV'R£ JUST FW..IN0 ABiT F'eRSWI7W. PC£Af1€.. TRY IT.
\ 
Fate 

EXCUSE ME-I GOT MY 'ScHEDULE NJf) EVEI:YTH/Nq BUT I THINK ITS A 
LITTLE MIXED tAP. 

Peanuts 





I'M ([ETTINC, NO SLEEP
THE FIRST B~EflK I tiEr 
OVER THIS WHOLE THIN(,,

IS AT 11'00 A./1. THEN 
AND 1 CAN FEE. MY BODY

I HAVE CLA~S FRoM NOON 
Q-ETT/Nq SICK, AND JUST A THI?E.E HOUI~ LA73. 
TO MID·N14HT, NVO THEN 
I 
ON£ /10f?E THIN(!, COULD MilKE ME SNAP/ 


5 "Ad-per 31 Resplen· aspera" dence



The Daily c:rossword 
10 WWIItown 32 Be disdain· 14 Money, ful of 
slangily 33 Extinct 15 Condescend bird 16 Fellow 34 Corrode 17 Lily plant 35 Hardship 18 "Marching 36 Isle 
as-" 37 Gun org. 19 Lacoste of 38 Greek city· tennis state 
20 Groundkeep· 39 Perfume, er's equip· ina way ment 41 Apoet 
22 Pretend laureate 23 Startled 43 Cavalryman observer 44 Fishing 24 Fish sauce boat 
Wedne~ay's Solution 
11/10/83

©1983 Tribune Company Syndlcatu, Inc. 11110/83 All Rights Reserved 



Charles M. Schultz 

45 Ridiculous 11 O'Neill failure play 47 Iridescent 12 Auld -syne lining 13 Store sign 49 French 21 Contrary 
police girl of 52 Profess rhyme 53 Dog 22 Flutter 54 Riverof 24 Cherub 
Zaire 25 Deputy 55 Negri of 26 Strident the silents noise 56 Pioneer's 28 Sounds from 
conveyance a byre 57 Blend 29 Din 58 Warhol or 30 Spud 
Griffith 32 Farm 59 Coin building receivers 35 Promising 60 Pronoun 38 Burning heap DOWN 39 Place for 1 Bedouin a sala headband 40 Cover a 2 Composer pie 
Bartok 42 Part of 3 Vacillates Scandinavia 4 One having 43 Women 
a strong 46 Smelter's voice item 5 John and 47 Cal. wine Mary valley 
6 Vermont ski 48 English resort river 7 Popular 49 Target 
film, 1975 50 Essayist 8 Heard on 51 Spanish the veldt painter 9 Mo. 53 Druggist's 10 Movies measures 


Sports 
Thursday, November 10, 1983-page 12 

Irish cross country team confident heading into district championship 
By PUll. WOLF place Loyola 92 points. qualifying on Saturday. Sports Writer This Saturday, the Irish travel to "We have had a varying degree of Ea<;t Lansing to compete in the quality performances during the 
After having gone two weeks NCAA District Championships. The year," he says. "Ifwe can put the per· without a meet, the Notre Dame I0,000 meter race will begin at I I formances all together, we can make cross country team will compete am. at Michigan State University. it to the Nationals." this weekend in the NCAA District Notre Dame's district includes all Cannon feels the difference bt·· IV meet. NCAA Division I teams in Minnesota, tween qualifying and not qualifying 
On October 29, the Irish harriers Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, is the desire the team has to win. 
finished second to Oral Roberts in and Michigan. The top four teams "What it comes down to is the Midwestern City Conference will go on to compete in the NCAA whether we want it, and right now," Meet. Oral Roberts, whose team Championships at Bethlehem, Pa., he adds, "everyone wants to go to consists of six Finns, two Kenyans, on Nov. 21. the Nationals." and only one American, grabbed the Irish Head Coach Joe Piane says Cannon missed the Midwestern top three spots and the team victory. the competition in this district is City Conference Met·t and a few 
Finnish runners Jari Nurmito and stiff, pointing out that II of )a<;t other meets this year due to a foot Tuomo Sainio ended up in first and year's 25 All-Americans came from injury, but he says he is now in top third place, respectively, while Ditrict IV. Piane believes, however, form again. He also hao; personal American Scott Harper finished that Notre Dame ha<; the talent rea<;t>ns for wanting to qualify for tht· second overall. The first Notre necessary to win. Nationals. Dame runner across the line was "If our guys compete up to their "I rt·ally feel I have to justif)' senior co-captain Andy Dillon, who potential, we can qualify (for the na· myself at this level of running," he finished fourth. tiona) meet)," he says. "The key is says, adding that he wants to 
Oral Roberts won the nine-team running up to our potential." measure his ability against a meet with I 7 points, while Notre Junior co-captain Tim Cannon "national standard" to recognize his Dame amassed 44 points and third· also thinks the team is capable of full potential. 
Rebounds from injury 
Foyt returns to auto racing 
Associated Press back injury, NASCAR officials said because we haven't been able to run yesterday. as mucll ao; we'd like to have run in 
Afterfinishing second in the Midwestern Cities Conference Meet, 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla -Four­Foyt tested his Oldsmobile the ·pa.o;t couple of years," he: said. 
the Irish cross-country team is looking forward to the NC4A Dis­
time Indianapolis 500 winner A. ]. Cutlass stock car in preparation for "Now, we have two new cars ...and trict Championships is East Lansing, Mich., this weekend. The top 
Foyt got behind the wheel of a race Speed Weeks '84, which culminates I plan on running at lc:ast I 0 Winston four teams adt'tmce to the NC4A Championships in Bethlehem, Pa. car this week for the first time since Feb. I9 with the Daytona 500. Cup Grand National races on super·
See Phil Wolfs story at right. 
July when he was sidelined with a "I'm really looking forward to the speedways next year." 
Daytona 500, and sure, I'd really love to win it again," said Foyt, 48,
Women's interhall football who won Daytona once. Foyt's last NASCAR competition wa.<; the Paul Revere 250 on July 3, which he won. Foyt ljUalified for thePW advances into playoffs 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 

As the regular seao;~m for women's interhall football ended la.o;t night, Pas4uerilla West advanced to the playoff.-; after defeating Lewis 14-8 while l'arley beat Badin 16-0. 
Last night's game wa.<; crucial for both P.W. and Lewis since both teams were t:ompeting for the la.o;t spot in Sunday's playoffs. Although Lewis Jed P.W. 8-7 ea t rly in the 
second half, P.W. rallied late in the game for its st.•t:ond tout:hdown and connected on a two-point conver· sion. 
P.W. athletic commissioner Mary Jane Lorton wa.o;; extremely pleased with the outcome of last evening's game. "We weren't too confident 
about the game because Lewis is a tough team and no one: really ex· peeled us to beat them," she said. 
Lorton attributed Ja.o;t night's vic· tory to P.W.'s ljUarterback. Cathy Flick. "She is probably the best ljUar­terbat:k in tht.· league and she has pulled us out of some tight situa­tions," said Lorton. 
P.W. 
ended its sea.<;tm with a 4-~ record and will face a strong 6·1 Pasquerilla East squad on Sunday. 

P.W. 
overcamt• many setbacks this season and Lorton considers it an ac­complishmt·nt for the: tc:am to be in· cludt·d in tht.· playoffs. 


Lewis saw its hopt.·s for competition in the playoff.-; fade as it c:mkd its sc:ao;~m with a 4-.-\ record. According to team captain Janeen Olds. P.W. posst·ssc:d the ball for three quarters of the game. "They had more offensive plays, but we did well considc:ring the timt· con· ·srr'alnts," she said. 
· • I..ast night's game wa.'i the second consecutive loss for Lewis a.o; they had dropped another comest to P.E., 2~-H. Olds compared last Sunday's game against P.E. to Notre Dame's loss to the Pitt Panthers. "They played an incredible: first half," she said, "and those two early st.·ores really hurt our morale:." 
Olds is disappointed about her tc:am's exclusion from the playoffs, but maintains that Lc:wis had a good season. "The highlight ofour season wa.o; beating B.P. because we played well and we had never done that before," she said. 
P.E. team captain Kim Zerr described the: game against Lewis as "the roughest game of the year." Af. ter Sunday's victory, P.E. ended its sea.o;;on wittr the best record in the Ic:ague and is looking forward to competition in the playoffs. 
Farley improved its record to ~-4 after last night's victory over 0-7 Badin. Although Farley will not par· ticipate in the playoffs, tc:am captain Sharon Koehler wa.o; plea.o;;ed with the result of last night's game. "We wanted to end the: season with a win and we were just out to have a good time," she said. 
Koehler was disappointed with the: result of the season and said Far­ley is a bettc:r team than the: record reflects. "We had some bad breaks and our losses came on other teams' big plays," she said. Koehler said the: highlight of the Farley season was "bc:ating Lewis because we were really up for the game." 
Earlier this week, S-2 Walsh securc:d a spot in the playoffs after defeating Farley 6-0 in overtime. "We were happy about making it and we are the only South quad team to make it," said Walsh coach Shawn O'Grady. 
According to O'Grady, Walsh's sixth starting pos1Uon for the Firecracker 400 but withdrew aftervictory was the: result of a "perfect" crashing into the wall during adefense and an exl·eptional of­practice run and a hack injury suf­fensive play called in overtime by fered several years ago during a racecoach Brian Steeber. O'Grady said 

in Riverside, Calif., rc:turned to
the team ha.'i been practicing hard haunt him.
and wiD be ready to face 5·2 B.P. on 
"We were put behind a little bit
Sunday. 


After 8 V2 years 
Speed Weeks '84 includes the Sunbank 24, the Camel GT Grand Prix of Endurance, the: Daytona 500, the ARCA 200 Talladega Super Car Series Race:, the Busch Clash of '84, the lJNO twin 125-mile qualifying run, the Florida 200 NASCAR Dar­
lington Da.o;h Series and the G<x><ly's 300 NASCAR Winston Racing Series. 
Foyt won the Daytona 500 in I972 and he is one of only four drivers ever to win back-to-hack Firecracker 400's which he did in I964 and 1965. 


NBA Commissioner O'Brien quits 
Associated Press ing financial complexity, resigned 
yesterday as NBA commissioner. 
NEW YORK -Larry O'Brien, O'Brien, 66, gave no single reason who switched from politics to sports for resigning, although he said he has and guided the National Basketball taken a new position that will be an­Association through eight and a half nounced at a forthcoming news con­years of the free agent era's increas· ference "not necessarily of 

NBA CommissionerLarry O'Brien, left, bas decided to step down after eight and a halfyears, it was announced yesterday. O'Brien said it wa5·time to ·..move on.:· Specul~tions-~to a successor in· elude O'Brien's.rlgbt-band man andNBA Executive. V(q-' ~i(/(('11· David Stem. 
interc:st to sports writers." 

There wa.<; speculation he might 
go to work for a Democratic 
presidential candidate, perhaps Sen. 
John Glenn ofOhio. 

O'Brien will step down when his 
contract expires Feb. I. He said he 
had been offered a new contract 
through the I984-85 sea.<;on, but 
turned it down. 

"There comes a time when you 
have to move on," he said. "Eight 
and a half years is the: longest I've: 
ever concentratc:d on a single thing 
in my life. If you told me eight and a 
halfyears ago when I came in that I'd still be here today, I'd have been very surprised." 
There was no immediate word on a successor, although David Stern. the NBA's executive: vice president and O'Brien's right-hand man. hao; bec:n prominently mentionl·d. The: leaguc:'s Board of Govt·mors -its 2~ owners -is expected to make a new commissioner the first order of business when it meets hc:re next week. 
O'Brien took over June I, 1975, three: years after the break-in of his office a.~ Democratic national l·hair­man in Wa.<;hingtun's Watergate complex. That set off one: of the major political scandals in history. 
see O'BRIEN, page 10 







