Irish Extra -page 9 

VOL XVIII, NO. 51 
tlw indqx.-nlknt ~tudcnt m·w-.paplT '>lT\ ing rH>trl dame and -.aint man·., 
FRIDAY NOVEMBER I l 1983 

Faculty 1nedical costs to rise 
ByDAN McCULLOUGH 
SentorStaffReporter 
A letter from Provost Timothy O'Meara regarding the controversial new faculty, administration and staff in~urance policy has angered several faculty members and moved tile Faculty Senate to continue making the issue its "first priority of the Senate's 1983-84 agenda." 
The letter blames "the spiralling increase in the cost of medkal services" on the new SlOO deduct­ible in additit'n to the 20 percent of the first S2,500 of ccnain medical costs which University employees now arc responsible for paying un­der the revised Blue Cross-BI1Je Shield coverage. Premiums on tile policy arc paid by the University. 
Fa<;ulty member Thomas jemielity explained, ''I'm not happy because we had an almost sudden liability." The employees' previous medical coverage covered all costs. 
Faculty Senate Chairman Mario Borelli said that the Senate was given very little input on the decisi<Jn. "We are not opposed to the type of plan in which a cenain deductible may be used Our concern is that tl:le new p<)licy has been arrived at with little or no consultation with c~.r­riers other than Blue Cross-Blue Shield." 
The Senate "was not at all con­
vinced that the new plan is the bc:st 
available" and that it was "impo~ed 
upon us without any judgement ,Gn 
our part, without any consultation 
and with very little sean:h for bet1er 
plans," Borelli said. 
Jemidity disagreed with Borc~lli 
on the deductible. "I wouldn't be 
willing giving up the old plan 
(without deductibles) without 
knowing alternatives to it," he said. 
O'Meara was unavailable for com­
ment. 
G. Thomas Bull, director of per­sonnel for the University, commented, "This is clas:;ic employerI employee controversy." He blamed the switch to the mw system on "uncontrolled increase:;." 
"The new policy is designed to en­courage responsible insurance ex­penditures," he said. "Ifpeople have to pay as they use the service, they'll be more careful. People aren't care­ful when they think that insurance 
will pay for their medical costs. 

"Doctors are responsible for some of this attitude. As the payer of the premiums, we have to get some con­trol," he added "People need to be serious about this. The University is looking to see if this is the case. Nobody is talking about cutting cor­ners in having less than the best. But while there is no free lunch, there is also no free hospitable stay." 
"The insurance premiums were expected to go up 33 percent since last year. With this new policy, the actual increases are closer to I 5 per­cent," said Bull. In attempting to prepare for these increases, the committee may have run out of time, he continued. 
The new policy was enacted over the summer by a subcommittee to the administration's finance board. Bull said that faculty senate mem­bers were on the committee. 

Borelli explained, "The two senators were present as senators and not as representatives of the Senate. They just happened to be there. That is not consulting the Senate." 
"Sometimes we're not always able to inform people of these things quickly enough," Bull said. 
Borelli stated that minutes of the 
Nov., 1982, Faculty Senate meeting 
illustrate that the issue was 
addressed by the Senate at that time. 
"The time was not that shon," he 
said "They could have known 
before." 
"A matter of such impona.nce as health insurance should be some­thingwhich is not decided upon in a time frame of emergency and the parties involved should be con­sulted. We had no occasion to dis­cuss, advise, or express opinion on the matter. 
"A major change in this policy is 
the number one priority on the 

Former ND ]prof completes nineteen-city speaking tour 
He de~ribed intimacy as living in 
By TIMOTHY GIANOTII 
the "House ofLove." That is, living a 
News Staff 

life which embraces compassion living a life ofintimacy, fecundity, 
over competition, speakingout over 
remaining silent and opening up 
over hardening the hea.n. 
and ec~-tasy was the call of Father 

Henri Nouwen's lc~cture, "A Call to His second major point of peace
Peacemaking," given in the library was fecundity, the living ofa fruitful
auditorium last night. life. He distingui">hed that fruitful­
Nouwen said that it was throut¥J ness and productivity were not to be
these three "human privileges" that connected or confused.
peace could be fully realized in our communities, our wciety and our 
see PEACE, page 6
world. 
Nouwen, a former psychology professor at Notre Dame, delivered his final lecture after completin~. a tour of 19 cities across the nation this Fall. He drew upon his c~x­periences of ~ial work in Cent1.-al America and teaching at both the Yale and Harvard SchoolsofDivinity to communicate his concept of spiritual living. 
"A spiritual life is one where we try to make this word ofpeace flesh in us," he said. "Christ told us, 'I have made my home in you.' " Our job as peacemakers, he added, was to make our home in Him. 


Senate agenda." 
The Senate has "seen evidence that the present plan is preventing people from seeking very much needed medical care," Borelli said. 
"Because the new plan requires a possible S600 expense, a number of people arc delaying or refusing to have medical care," he continued. "The end result will be that the Uni­versity will have to pay more when the condition of these people becomes worse. It's counter­productive in keeping the costs down." 
"My office continues to work with the subcommittee and is continuing to address the issue," Bull said. He outlined a plan that personnel is in­itiating to meet faculty objections. 
The plan includes: 
•Putting 
the policy "out for bid" to see if it is presently as cost-efficient as it can be. 

•Common 
employer effons with South Bend industry to di~uss health issues. 

•Taking 
a new look at the current plan design. 

•Beginning 
"wellness programs" to encourage employees to take better care ofthemselves. 

•Participating 
in the Nonhero In-


see POUCY, page 6 

Margie Garcia and Doug Gauthier, co-organizers of tonight's Beaux Arts Ball, plot decorating schemes to match the dance's overall theme: "Black and White All Nigbt." Timothy Gianotti's preview ofthe dance is in today's Showc:ase section on page 12. 

Four to spin the Wheel of Fortune 
By MYCHAL SCHUlZ nor the university is helping, Nelson NewsStaff replied, "My parents are paying for it. Besides, if you do well you can Four Notre Dame students will win back whatever you pay out.'' travel to Burbank, Calif, in Decem­Miranda is also hoping that her win­ber and try and wheel home their nings on the show will offset her ex­fonune. penses. If they don't, she said, it 
Jim Slattery and jack McCormick, would be "a bigdrawback." both law students, along with fresh­Nelson said his tryout with two men Fred Nelson and Paula Miranda., NBC executives was not difficult be· were selected to represent Notre cause "they told you exactly what Dame on NBC's Wheel of Fonune they wanted you to do. Ididn't know "Collegiate Week-" McCormick and what to expect, but the way they did Slattery will depa.n Tue~ay, Nov. it was good." 29, while Nelwn and Miranda will At the interview sessions each leave on Friday, Dec. 2. The actual contestant took a quiz on the names taping will be Dec. 3. of people, places, and things. with 
Miranda felt she was chosen over crucial letters missing from each the other 175 entrants because "I name. was loud, obnoxious, and I had a The contestant was given five smile on my face the whole time." minutes to complete the quiz. 
Asked how he was going to Then, the four actually played the finance the trip, since neither NBC game. Acontestant has to guess a let­ter that might appear in the blanks, with each letter having a money value determined by the spin of a wheel. The money is won ifyou cor­rectly guess the name. 
Miranda said she wa.o; surprised with the quiz, noting that she "just thought that we · would play the game." 
Nelson said he felt "stupid" at first during the session, "but after a while everybody started to get into it, so nobody really cared if you jumped up and down and yelled." Miranda held the same view. "I felt stupid, but I would gladly make a fool out of myselffor a few bucks." 
Nelson summed up the feelings of the group by saying, I didn't think that I'd have an opportunity like this again. I didn't expect to make it. I was pretty shocked when I saw my name on the sheet.'' 

Committee will start course evaluations with theology and philosophy departments 
ByBILL KRAIS next year. Riley said that the Com­News Staff mittee is waiting until next year be· cause committee members "want to The Student Senate "Committee avoid criticisms ofour evaluations." 
for Students' Teachers Evaluations" Riley pointed out that the com· plans to begin evaluating courses mittee will first evaluate the College next semester in an attempt to even­of Arts and Letters, specifically the tually evaluate the entire University philosophy and theology depart­
curriculum. ments. The ultimate goal, according 
Formed by the Senate two months to Riley, would be "to evaluate the ago, the committee has the intent of whole university within a couple of giving students information years." concerning the value of classes for As to the Student Senate's alloca­
which they are registering. The tion of n ,000 to the committee, committe has already begun elicit­Riley noted that "the funds will be ing teacher and course appraisal in­used in conjunction with those used formation from students, faculty next year to defer costs of the members, and campus organiza­evaluations." tions. These evaluations will be con­
Bob Riley, committee member, ducted in the same manner as cur· ~aid the group will evaluate courses rent student evaluations. next semesterand issue evaluations Questionnaires requesting informa­tion will be distributed to the stu­dents at the conclusion of the course. 
No faculty opposition to the com­mittee has been voiced so far. Profes.~r Mario Borelli, chairman of the Faculty Senate, welcomes stu­dent eval uation. He feels that, "Peer evaluation is not reliable. Student evaluations help the professor enor· mously, more so than peer evalua­tions.'' 
However, the Faculty Senate is concerned about the point of teac­her and course evaluations in general. The Faculty Senate's Com­mittee ofStudent Affairs, chaired by Professor Theresa Phelps of the Law School, is specifically interested with teacher evaluation. They have not offered any opposition to the new course evaluations as ofyet. 


The Observer Friday, November 11, 1983-page 2 



In Brief ( .· 
• 
''Wt"gs, pam·ted litL and

4:.-..~es inappropriate costumes" an: out at Brigham Young University football games. IIYI"s Dean ofStudent Life recently issued new guidelines prohibit­ing students from wearing suc·h gear into home games. Once in costume. students gain a sense of anonimity and are more likely to mishcha\·c. according to the guiddincs. Many students arc angry. stating that the guidelines arc unnecessarily restrictive. -The Ob­
sen'l'T 
A jury in Denton, Texas, yesterday semcnccd professed mass murderer I knry Lee Lucas to life in prison for killing his tl'Cn·agt· common-law wife with a butcher knife. The panel ddihl·ratl·d thn:c-and-a·halfhours before sentencing the drifter who claims to havt· killed 16'; people across the country. Lucas wa.~ c01ivictcd Wednesday just hours after tearfully telling jurors that he stabbed Frieda "Becky" Powell during a quarrel. Lucas was the only defense witness. Testimony began Tuesday and Lucas was lillmd guilty after less than two hours' deliberation Wednesday by the scn·n-man, five-woman jury. Defense lawyer Tom Whitlock had said an appeal would probably depend on the sentence. The prosecution relied heavily on a videotape of Lucas ' description to police of how Ill' stahbnlthe I ';-year-old Miss Powell after a quarrel thl· night ofAug. 2·1, I ')H2. -AP 

Of Interest .. :c.' · .· 
Some of the best college debaters will be on 
campu~ thb weekend a~ part of the Irish Invitation, a tournament 
~ponsornl by the Notre Damt· Debate Team. About 120 debaters 
from 60 colleges in the Midwest and West. including more than ten 
schools in the top 20 debate teams in the nation, will compete in two 
division~. The Cross Examination Debate Association division is the 
largest tourtlallll'lll in the Midwest and West. and the National 
Debate Tournaml·nt division will include: other teams in the Mid­
west. All individual competition will be in the rooms of O'Shag. ­
/be (}/Jserr•er 
Asytnposiwn offour 20-minute talks and a 
tilm will hc held Sunday beginning at ~ p.m. in the Library Auditorium l·onl'l'rning nuclear war. The speakers arc Professor .Jamt·~ Stl·rha of the philosophy department. Professor Paul Kenney of the physics dl·partment, Dr. <:harlotte Lt:vine ofthe Physicians for Social Hcsponsibility. and Notn· Dame president Fatlll'r Theodore I kshurgh. Thc tilm, "If You Love This Planet," features Dr. Hekn <:aldicoll, a national anti-nuclear activist. The symposium is ~ponsornl hy the Pre-Profl·ssional Society and Ground Zero. -The (Jbsen•er 

Sign-ups fur theAnnualTurkeyShoot end 
today as tht· competition, sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics, will be hdd Tuesday and Thursday. The Army ROTC Rifle Team will assist NVA with tht· shoot. hdping campus shooters in safety and shooting procedures. Each shooting team consists of two men and two women. Thl· compl·tition will be held at the ROTC rifle range located nl·ar gate I·tofthe football stadium. Prizes will he comprised ofgift cntificates good at various restaurants in the South Bend area. 
-The Ohsen•er 
The Master Class and recital ofworld renowned cellist Fritz Magg will be hdd in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Musl·um of Art on Sa!llrday. from 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. The recital will also take plan· in thl· Annenhcrg Auditorium on Sunday at 4 p.m. He will perform works ofPaulllindemith, Max Reger, andJohann Seba.~­tian Bach. The Mastn Clas~ and recital are both free and open to the public. Fritz Magg was born and educated in Vienna, Austria. Since I')..fH. he has het·n Professor of Cello and Chamber Music at the School of \tusic of Indiana llniversity. -The Obserr•er 


()ccasi<>rlal raifi mixed with wet snow today. Windy and cold with tl·mpnatures holding in the mid to upper .30s. Oc­casional light snow. Low in upper 20s. Decreasing clouds and cold tomorrow with a high in the low to mid 40s. -AP 

Acid, acid go away 
Power-plant managers, like cardinals looking for a 

pope, used to judge good days and bad days by the color 
of chimney smoke: Black, sooty smoke meant bad, bad 
days. 
But sitting in today's air pollution hot seat are not 

dirty hydrocarbons but colorless oxides that shower to 
the ground as acid. 
Just ask the people of Boston whose prized, bronze statues are melting. Or people of Vermont whose spruce forests appear sick and withered. 
The blame, environmentalists say, is acid rain -a catch-all term for sulfur and nitrogen oxides released by power plants, smelters and cars. The particles can travel in the upper atmosphere for days, and when reacting with water, can shower down on communities hundreds of miles from the culprit power plant. 
"We're at the receiving end of an exhaust pipe to emissions across the country," said one official at Maine's environmental protection department. 
Scientists and power­plant managers, however, aren't the only ones in­terested in acid rain. Six bills proposing cutbacks in sulfur-dioxide emissions are pending in Congress, includ­ing one sponsored by Maine's Democratic Senator George Mitchell, that demands a ';0 percent reduction in sulfur emis­sions in .3 I states by 19')0. 
The Reagan administra­tion until this summer had said that not enough in­formation about the cause of acid rain was available to jus­tify such legislation. But in June, a ';';-page report by a White House task f(Jrce con­cluded that acid rain b caused by man and that man should do more to stop it. 
Indeed, the question is not who or what has caused 

acid rain, but how to control it. It is clear that sulfur­
dioxide reacts in the atmosphere to form sulfuric acid, 
despite what conservative Congressmen argue. It is also 
clear that power plants emit sulfur dioxide. Now what 
does one plus one equal? 
The exact reaction pathway of acid rain, however, is still not understood entirely. Researchers at the Geor­gia Institute of Technology have suggested that sulfur­dioxide emissions react with ozone, water and hydrogen peroxide to form sulfate, which in solution becomes sulfuric acid. The hydrogen-peroxide has become more significant in the reaction than originally thought, turning attention to free-radical reactions. 
Scientists at Battelle's Laboratories in Columbus, Ohio, agrue that a nitrate called PAN -a main in­gredient in American smog -contributes to the acid 
_ Th.e_Obseryer_ r----------------~ I INFLATION I 
Composition Editor ................ Mary llealy Composilio1l Assistant ....... Susan O'Hara Typesetters .........., ........... Michelle and Ted Neu•s Editor................. .......Jeff llarrington Copr Editor............................. Kevin Binger 
Sports Copy Editor ............ Mike Sullivan Editorials LaJ'OUI ............ Ken Ccrahona Features Lay~Jut.. . ................ Mary Healy 
ND Dav Editor... ... Kathlem Doyle SMC Day Editor.. .....................Jody Radler Ad Design ............ Roh Slota Photographer.... . ........ Paul Kramer Guest Appearances .... The real Mike Sul­livan, Th~ Observer Trav~lling Band, and Marvelous Marvin Hagll'r 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays, except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The OburverIS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Oburver. P 0 Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
The ObMrver is a member of The Aaeoclllted Preu. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
( 

I GOTYOUI I I BLOOD I
I BOILING? I 
I We can help relieve II some of that pressure! 1 
I HOW?wewill pay you I
I up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I 
I It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfy II reclining chairs while you dol)ate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. I 
I You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your 1
1 I
second donation within the same week... AND we will give you a free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. 
I PLUS I
I I
We Will Give You an Additional I $4 If you bring this ad with you. 1
1 '(offer applicable to first time donors on~y!) I I 1
For more information call

I 234·601 0 or come by515 Lincolnway West I 
I Bring your LD. 
I AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 1 
A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others II Tues and Sat 8am-5pm II Wed and Fri 9am-5pm • 

·----------------~ 
Bob Vonderheide 
News Editor 
Inside Friday 

rain problem by adding nitrous acids to precipitation. 
Rain is inherently acidic (pH of about 5.6 ), but acid rain can often have a pH of 4 or even 3, approaching the acidity of vinegar. While the effect on humans and buildings hasn't been well documented, the damage caused to forests and lakes is growing more intenst· each year. 
The area hardest hit envelopes a region from Chica~o to Boston and from Montreal to northern Kentucky. Power plants in this region burn mostly high-sulfur coal mined in Kentucky, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and (!: southern Indiana. To cut back on sulfur-dioxide emis­b sions, power plants could either switch to low-sulfur coal or install scrubbers. huge devices that "wash" smokestack effluent, usually with a calcium-carbonate slush. But scrubbers are ex­pensive, some a.~ much as $1 I 0 million. And while scrubbers often produce ')0 percent sulfur-free emis­sions, technology on their design and operation still has a few wrinkles. One of Louisville Gas & Electric's first scrubbers, now six years old, almost ate away an entire smokestack when pH was not controlled. A major switch to Western low-sulfur coal would all but kill an already depressed high-sulfur coal market in the East. And proposing legislation that forbids burning low-sulfur coal. as one Indiana politician did this sum­mer, is not the answer. One day, politicians will n:alize that acid rain should be studied and solved in the lab, not the Senate cham­ber. But scientists are not optimistic. Said one at Geor­gia Tech: "We know more about acid rain than wa.~ known about air pollution when the Clean Air Act was passed. And still, no one's listening." 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board or staff. 

Courses are offered in such areas as pr_ogram had died do~n. _Weigert economics, government, history, saJd,_and the concentration m peace theology. and sociology. studieS was proposed to take its 
"The concentration comes at a place. good time," said Weigert. who noted "The idea started when I was still that the PACE report put an em-an assistant dean in the College of phasis on the educational mission of Arts and Letters," said Weigert. 
the university. "I see the concentra-Much of the initial work on the tion in peace studies as an integral proposal was done by Weigert and part ofthis." Professor John Yoder of the theol-
The idea for the concentration ogy department. The final proposal, came from the former Program in made by a committee chaired by Non-Violence, which was popular Goverment Professor Michael during the 1960's. Interest for the Francis, was approved in August. 

Erratum 
Because of incorrect information Walsh and Farley halls. Karen Kos­received, The Obseroer incorrectly tecky, president of Walsh, and Kelly reported last week that the "Men of Fitzgerald, president of Farley, have Notre Dame Calendar" was a project had the calendar approved hy Notre for a charity and that the names of Dame and are seeking approval from the students involved and their Saint Mary's to sell it on the Saint dorms were not known. Actually, Mary's campus. the calendar is a fund-raiser for 




ZORBA 
Simply more computer than Kaypro or Osborne for less ... a lot less. 

Complete 

Fly Home to N.Y.C. for Christmas 
wi1h the 

Long Islland Club 
$195 R~und Trip South Bend -La Guardia 
Leave:Dec.12,1982 After last Final Exam Call Mike Levchuck at 8253 
for reservations Seats are limited 

The Observer Friday, November 11, 1983-page 3 
.A)""~ ~.,.JCO"" ...co--...r...r...r...r.A)""...r...r...r...r...r..;:Y"...r.A)""...r...r...r...r...r1
F ...... ...... .................. --------------------------------------------------------------------­

1THEMIDWESTNOSTALGIAcoMPANY 1Peace Studies Program approved 
INovember ;;,i~l :;::t~~c:~t:::~~~:~l selection of § By PAT SAIN 
s Senior StaffReporter
Beatie items, baseball cards, movie posters, 
A concentraton in Peace Studies

rock group pins and buttons, and
§ has been approved by the College ofS quality nostalgia and memorabilia. Arts and Letters. The program will
Is§ November 10 . 13, :2nd floor by L.S. Ayres ~ give an "academic expression to the 
lS issues ofpeace and justice" at NotreS R Dame, according to Kathleen Maas&-....ooc:x:o-...r~....coo--....O.~.A)"".A)""~.A)""...oooc:o--...o::¥ Weigert, the coordinator of the 
program. 
"It is important for Notre Dame to have this (program)," said Weigert. "We are a university committed to 
values, one of which is peace and justice." 
The concentration is open to all students, and consists of I S hours in at least two departments in the col­lege of Arts and Letters. Students must take a mandatory introductory course, "Introduction to Peace Studies," and an arranged exit-level course. 
The interdepartmental structure was chosen because "peace and justice cannot be approached from one point of view," said Weigert. 
Men's Hair ·Cuts 
. 

Queen's Castle 
Beauty With A Touch ofRoyalty 
1~1 th Anniversary Celebration 
272-0312 272-8471 277-1691 
~~ 

~:!::"' ~ := ~ ~ 54533 Terrace Lane \ ·, South Bend 
\(Across from Martin's on St. Rd. 23) 
''Hair Kingdom For All" 

Zorba is the portable business computer everyone is talk· ing about. It reads more computer formats, responds faster, and is more versatile than any other portable. It's so com· pact and lightweight, you can take it wherever your busi· ness takes you. 
Now you can buy it, for a limited time only while supply lasts with a built·in bonus of $1,200 in top-selling software prog~ams: CP/M 2.2, CBasic, M-80, WordStar, MaiiMerge and CalcStar. 
IBM PC Upgrade will be available the first quarter of 1984. 
COMPARE FOR YOURSELF 

ZORBA OSBORNE EXEC  KAYPRO 4  
Z80A MICROPROCESSOR  YES  YES  YES  
CP/M OPERATING SYSTEM  YES  YES  YES  
64K EXPANDABLE RAM  YES  YES  NO  
DISK STORAGE PER DRIVE  400K  200K  400K  
CRT DISPLAY SIZE  7"  7"  9"  
NUMBER OF COMMUNICATIONS PORTS  3  1  2  
95 KEY KEYBOARD  YES  NO  NO  
EMULATION OF OTHER COMPUTERS  YES(8)  NONE  NONE  
INDEPENDENT PROGRAMMABLE KEYS  YES  NO  NO  
IBM COMPATIBLE UNIT  YES ($2395)  YES ($3195)  NO  
FREE SOFTWARE:  
WORD PROCESSING  YES  YES  YES  
SPREADSHEET  YES  YES  YES  
BASIC PROGRAMMING  YES  YES  YES  
DATABASE  OPTIONAL  YES  YES  
ASSEMBLER LNGE  YES  NO  NO  
SOURCE CODE  YES  NO  NO  
SETUP PKG  YES  NO  NO  
EXTERNAL VIDEO  YES  YES  NO  
WEIGHT  211bs.  281bs.  261bs.  
SIZE  18.5x15x9  20.5x13x9  19x16x8  
BASE PRICE  $ 1395.00  $2495.00  $1995.00  

·source: BYTE magazlne/September/83
••• SUPER SPECIAL •••FREE CARRYING CASE AND INFOSTAR DATABASE PROGRAM, WORTH $555.00, FOR THOSE CUSTOMERS WHO PAY BY CERTIFIED CHECK OR MONEY ORDER. 
QUANTITIES ARE LIMITED CALL (312) 291·1235 TODAY! 
DATA SOURCES, INC. 
3186 MacArthur Northbrook, Illinois 60062 
Serviced Nationwide by Modular Computer 

Trademarks: Zorba and CalcStar Registered Trademarks: CP/M, Micro Pro, Digital Research, MicroSoft, Inc., WordStar, lnfoStar and Mail Merge, Kaypro, Osborne 
from campus 
Friday, November II, I983 -page 4

The Observer 
SMCjuniors plan weekend for mothers 
By CINDY BOYLE 
StaffR<'flllrlf!r 
Saint Mary's Colkg~ Junior Mot­
h~rs Wet·k~nd, slatt·d for Jan. 27-29, 
will katur~ a ht·auty s~minar and 
dinnt-r at tht· Am~rkana llotd 
among oth~r ~v~nts. 
Th~ moth~r~ art· schnlukd to arriv~ Friday afi~rnoon, and a wdcom~ rt-ct·ption will h~ hdd in tht· llaggar Colkg~ C~nt~r that ev~­ning. Th~ rt'C~ption will includ~ a photography and art display, musi­cal p~rl<1rmann·~ hy mt·mh~rs ofth~ 
junior cl;t~s. and r~fr~shm~nts. 
Motht·rs and daught~rs will havt· th~ opportunity 10 all~nd a fashion and l1t·auty st·minar at th~ Am~ricana llotd Saturday after­noon. 
"As alt~rnativ~~ 10 tht· s~minar. we will havt· a wom~n·s pand of speaker., and son~<.· type ofsports ac­tivities," ~aid Palli Drahick, co-chairman of the wt'l'kt·nd. 
Salllrday t'Vt·ning will kature a dinnn at th~ Ama;cana llotel, which is an addition ovt·r last year's activities. 
Tht· st•vt·nth annual wt'l'kend will ht· capped off with a Mass on Sunday morning at thl' ( :hurch of l.orl'tto and a hrunch. 
"Wt·'rl' hoping for ahout ;'.00 pt·opk." ~aid Drahkk. "We'v~ got­ten a lot of hn·orahk responses thi., }Tar from th~ ~tutknts." 

UPTOWN FUNK BAND WITH Priscilla Phillips Thursday thru Saturday featuring Bill Boris winner of N.D. Colleg1ate Jazz Festival Award 
Featuring: Fresh Blue Point Oysters & Large Gulf Shrimp Jazz & Blues 6 nights a week 
Open 5pm TUES. THRU SAT. 7pmSUNDAY 
"CTl\[ L-UI~ ~--II'-I lUI<f'\ 
C{)ltVHIJNIIC!lllii{)N ~_.....,~.__......,._f; r EAilli(E 
lr=ll?III()A\~ lr=IIIL~t ~1~11:?111~~ 
November 11 

Seven Samural{1954) Japan 
Directed by J,kira Kurosawa In Japanese w.ln l:.ngltsh subtttles. 8/W, 
2·JO 1111n 

P. stak~ment on t'e d"ttenoratlon of feudal soctety, Samurai dep1cts the h111n·l of rnaslerle:;s ~mur:1i by theo peasants of a v1llage bes1eged by tJ.tt•dits Perhaps ror the first t1me, the samura1 use the1r sk1Hs 1n defense ,., the common people, and teach them how to Gall forth the1r own latent st~~ngth 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum ADM1ss1oNs2.oo 
........--lr~u ~ 11 tl71ti lr--7 3 
= 0-PM_, 

Relief Hotel Manager Part Time Will Train 
Law or MBA student preferred for a national company Please call 233-1154 for appointment 
with Guest Appearances by 
The Best Picture of the Year 
New York •'ilm Critirs Nalional Rnard of Rf'\'it>w 

Friday & 

Best Actor ofthe Year -Ben Kingsley 
!"root"w York Film Critk1 National 8m1rd nf Rt>vit•w 


Saturday
L.o1 AnRl'lt'K fo'ilm ('riti£'h Ali~oo,·. 



6:30 and 10:00 
$2 




GANDHI 
His triumph changed thr world forever. Q 
~-·----~·-..~·-!!!!!! 
Engineerina Auditorium 
Sponsored by 1'-f:"D. Student Union 


Notre Dame 


Woolridge vs. 
Student Union
Tripucka Bus trip to Chicago Bulls 
vs. 
Detroit Pistons Game 
Tues., Nov. 15 Bus leaves 6:00pm Sign up at ticket offfice or at SU Record Store 


DIONNE WARWICK 
an~ former N.D. Quarterback JOE MONTANA TUESDAY, NOV. 15th • 8 P.M. 
(Portions of .this show will be taped for a Nov. 23rd Bob Hope Television Special.) 
PRICES 

$11.50  $10.50  $7.50  
Floor, Plltfonn  Lo-Arena  BleachIrs  
and Lo&e  

Tickets on sale at: 
ACC Box Office 9am-5pm 

SEARS (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City), ROBERTSON'S (So. Bend, Town & Country and Concord Mall), ST. JOSEPH BANK (Main OHice), ELKHART TRUTH, J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (LaPorte), WORLD RECORDS (Goshen MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor). 







GRAND REOPENING SALE! 
* 

SAVE 20°/o-50% ON EVERYTHING! Thru Nov. 1 Direct Bus Route Mon.-Sat. Buses run on the hour and half hour. Shop today & save! 
'excludes sale perms, cosmetics and shoes. 

Interested in a Masters Degree in 
McCarthy's 
Accounting? Business Administration?
EST.1983 
Public Administration?
Moo: Monday Night Football ­Pitchers. $2 during game 
Dicover Rice University's Jesse H. Jones 
N.D.

Tues: Two for One Draft ~me 


Graduate School of Administration­
Two drafts .75 
NO Ave. 

A representative will be on campus on
Wed: Talent and Ladies Nite ­
Happy I/ourprices to ladies 

November 14, 1983 
Thurs: Cheers Nite -
HillS! . 
. 25 draft8-10PM 
Rice University 
* McCclrfhv's

Fri: Pre-Game Nite ­
For Further Information 
Jones Graduate School of Administration 

wake up the echoes with us! 
Contact P.O. Box 1892 
Sat: Sat. Morning Confusion ­Houston, Texas 77251
The Placement Office 
(713) 527-4893

Irish Omelets $2.50; draft 7 AM .10 
up a dime every hour till noon 
Please Send an Application and a brochure about 
Rice University's Jones Graduate School to: 
Sat. Afternoon Pre-Game Warm-Up ­
.,.
$2.00 pitchers 4-8 

Name _____________________________·__·_·_______________ 
Uncle Vinnie Says: 

Address _____________________________________________ 
"A day without wine Is 

410 N. Hill !Jon-Tburs 11:00-1:00 
City ___________________ State _________ Zip ________
a day wllhoul sunshine" 
Fri 11:00-2:00 

College Degree Date ____
Full line ofPub Grzjb served daily Sat 7:00 A.IJ-2:00 A.IJ 
Rice is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution. 




~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t_________________Fr-id-~,-No_v_em-be-r1-1,_19-83--p-ag-e5 
Justifying death through war 
There comes a time in everyone's life when he or she feels totally separated from the rest of humanity. Unfortunately. this time usually arrives only when death approaches. I say "unfoqunately," because this is the time when 
.. 

______. Fran Norton 
Shrinking reality 

we see life most clearly, free from an~r taint of prejudice or preconception. 
At death we realize that the time .>pent on Earth is just a stage in existence, that life was only a maturing process, a preparation for something that has yet to arrive. 
We also realize that every other human is on the same journey. In this journey through life all people are linked together, and there is no power in existence that can separate them. 
If one man takes a knife and thrusts it into 
another until he dies, did not one man murder another? Is one of them not dead. and did the other not kill him? 
Ever since man became civilized he has tried to justify this act. He has flown banners, worn gleaming armor, enjoined morality, and called upon God's grace. And yet the simple fact remains: one man is dead, the other is a murderer. 
Only when man realizes that no leader, no army, no country, and no lies will march with him into death will he understand that be is of primary importance, and that the others are of secondary importance. When man realizes that he must live with his own actions he will think for himself. 
He will see that he is only visiting Earth for a short time, as is the rest ofhumanity. Then he will recognize his brother as his brother, a soul as a soul. 
Apparitions are sometimes hard to see through, but they are just that: apparitions. Despite what governments may say, all men are equal, and all have the right to life. 
Whether they be young or old, capitalist or socialist, unborn or comotose, they all have the same God given right to life. Governments may not violate this right. No cause of any government is just if it takes life. 
But what, you might well ask, does all ofthis pulpit preaching have to do with the price of bullets in the Philippines? 
While the students, faculty, and administra­tion of Notre Dame sit in their snug little haven, people around the world are dying. Many are being killed in Yourtown, USA, b•tt more are being killed by something called WAR. War is where humans act as mindless demons for the righteous causes of God and justice. 
At this moment. the two factions ofthe PLO 
are killing each other so that one of the two 
groups will have 'upreme power, no matter 
how temporarv it . nay be. In the process, the 
civilians of Tripol• are being butchered. In El 
Salvador, Marxist supported guerillas are 
waging war. In Nkaragua, American backed guerillas are wagin~ war. Why? For God and justice, ofcourst· 
These faraway p tees affect us in two ways. Indirectly, our taxes are being used to finance war. Nicaraguan t<"rrorists use our money to kill, Salvadoran troops use our money to kill, and countless other groups use our money to kill. Directly, US Marines are being killed in Lebanon and Grenada. These Marines, unlike the foreig11ers, are our neighbors, friends, family, and possibly even us in the not too dis­tant future. 
l :pon closer examination, all war seems to 
blend together to form one large hellish 
nightmare that has enveloped mankind. In 
time, the soldiers are forgotten, the causes are 
forgotten, and the civilians are never even 
remembered. 
All that remains is war's unquenchable 
thirst for blood, and the fact that every man 
must face death alone. One must decide 
whether it is is better to give in to the mad­
neo;s, or to his own self be true. 



Tbe role of freedom at a university 
The recent debate between The Obseroer and the University administration over placing the paper on the Unit Budget Control System reaches far beyond the question of 
Mike Wilkins 
Here, there, and back 

whether or not The Obseroer should he under the financial control of the Univemity. The very heart of this matter concerns the ques­tion of freedom -the freedom_ to pursue ideas and exchange thoughts and beliefS. 
ln_Tbe Hesburgb Papers: Higher Values on Higher Education, Father Hesbu::gh em­phasizes the need for academic freedom at a 
Catholic university. He writes, "The student 
must come to a basic understanding ofthe ac­
tual world in which he lives today. This means 
that the intellectual campus ofa Catholic uni­
versity has no boundaries and no barriers .... 
The whole world of knowledge and ideas 
must be open to the student; there must be no outlawed books or subjects. Thus the student will be able to develop his own capabilities and to fulfill himself by using the intellectual resources presented to him. 
"But acadt:mic freedom does not live by rhetoric alone. Each year brings its new crisis. When the battle seems newly won, hostilities breal< out on another front. It is not so much that freedom is fragile as that it must be won daily, and exercised daily and responsibly, by each one ofus." 
Each of the last two years has brought a 
crisis of freedom to the Notre Dame com­munity. Last year the University was involved in a pair of lawsuits with Go Irish. a local publication covering the Notrt: Dame football team. The University was accused of not cooperating with the Go Irish in its execution of normal working functions and the Univer­sity accused the publication of making itself 
appear to be connected with the University. 
Tempers and tensions rose on both sides and no progress was made toward an out-of­court agreement. With so many local businesses capitalizing on the Notre Dame name and image, one has to wonder if there were other reasons for the problems between these two parties. Why was the University working so hard to protect the Irish name when other organizations around the area are profiting from exploiting Notre Dame? 
This year, after an agreement had been reached with Go Irish and it seemed that the battle was "newly wun," another crisis has broken out, this time with Tbe Obsert•er. Can we say that the members ofthe administration have exercised freedom responsibly in their dealings with publications devoted to cover­ing the Notre Dame community? With such lofty goals as Father Hesburgh has expressed in his own book, why hao; the administration's dealings with these publications appeared so hardline? 
After confrontations like these, one must question how dedicated the University is to achieving this goal of freedom expressed by Father Hesburgh. Are we really learning in an environment of frt:edom, or are we only free to learn as long as we do not offend those who teach us to be free? 



P. O.BoxQ 
Colored glasses 
DearEditor: 
After Notre Dame's second sorrowful showing on national television, Coa<:h Faust said, "We're still in good shape." I think that it's very nice that Gerry sees everything through rose-colored glasses. The only problem is that it sometimes prevents one from seeing things as they really are! 
Btll McMurray 


Name game 
DearEditor: 
For the last six years there have been other people named Michael Sullivan at the schools I have attended. Since other people had the same name, I did not mind putting up with the occasional confusion. This year, for the first time, I am the only one. The only Michael Sul­livan other than myself is a priest. I figured that no one would confuse me with a priest. I was right. Instead of being confuse( with a priest named Michael Sullivan, I am constantly being confused with a Sports Editor named 
Edward Sullivan. 
I like getting phone calls. I do not like being awal<ened at 7 am. or running down the hall to answer a phone call for someone else. Espe­cially when many of the calls are negative and some are obscene. This may seem trivial, but when it happens on a regular basis, it becomes quite annoying. I could even put up with this if the Sports Editor's name was Michael Sullivan, but the fact that his name is Edward and he calls himself Mike bothers me. I was in a class with him once, and I noticed that on his exams he put an "E" in front of his name to avoid confusion. I would appreciate it if he would extend that same courtesy to me with his column. 
Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. They must bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author(initials andpseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Letters must be well-written and typed. Material shorter than 250 words will receive priority. All letters are subject to editing and become the property of The Ob­
server. 

Editorial Board  DepartmentManagers  
EclitfJr-in-Cbhf ............................... David Dziedzk  
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  ( .219) 239-5303  Mmwging Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe  Business .lltiiWger  ....... <:hri,tophn <hn·n  
The Obsert•er is the independent nt-wspaper published by the students of the I ·ni­ Executil't' EtlitfJr .....:...........................Paul :1.1c{;inn  Controller . ..............  .. Ak·x ~lil\"a~  
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  ."'ieu·s l:"ditor ................................. Bob Vondt.·rheidl·  Adi•(•rtising Mmwgt•r.  . . ..Jeanie l'oole  
the policies of the administration of >either institution. The news is reported as ac·  .'Veu·s Editor....................................Mark \X"orscheh  (."irculafion Jlmw.~er. ........  . .. :'\1 ark \1 iotto  
curately and as objectively as possible:. I :nsigned editorials repreSent the opinon ofa  S~tint Marr's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski  .\rstems Manager ........................... 1-.:t·vin \\ illiam~  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries,leners. and the Inside Column present  Sports Editor .................................Mkhad Sullivan  {"(Jmfmsilitm Mcmager.......•.....Suz;tnnl· l.a Croi.x  
the views oftheir authors. Column spa•:e is availabil' to all members ofthe community,  Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton  
and tht· free expres.o;ion ofvarying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouragl·d.  Photo Edif(Jr .......................................... Scott B<lwer  


Founded November 3, 1966 
·­

The Observer Friday, November 11, 1983-page 6 

Education workshop to study Catholicism 
Special to the Observer 
<:atholic s~condary school 
n·prc:st·ntatives from across the na­
tion will attend a s~cond high 
st·hool-colleg~ lntt·r-fac~ Workshop 
ht·ginning Sunday at Notre: Dam~. 
Heing Catholic is tht· them~ of this 
yc:ar's program, in tht· Ct·nrt·r for 
Continuing Education. 
Tht· three-day workshop bc:gins Sunday t·vening whc:n participants from .~2 dion·st·s and an·hdiocc:st·s nll'c:t with studc:ms from their art·a at an inti1rmal mix~r. Emil T. llof­man. Dean of Freshman Year of Studic:s, a sponsoring organization, will giv~ th~ k~ynot~ speech Mon­day morning. 
Univ~rsity Pr~sident Fath~r Th~odorc: lkshurgh will discuss Value Educ_·ation at the ~v~ning ~s­
• • . Peace 

continuedfrom page I 
"A fruit is not som~thing youp_a._c.. 
mak~. it is a gift you rt:cdv~ in gratitud~." h~ said. If~ ~xplain~d that our call is not to mak~ or produc~. hut to a<:c~pt th~~ divin~ gifts with a gracious attitud~. 
lk said that living fruitful lives is t·s~ntial to our ~If worth as human hdng.o; and especially as Christians. And h~ added that this is what is mis­sing in tht·liv~s ofth~ poor. 
"We do not hav~ to change or rt·mak~. hut rath~r to r~cciv~ the: fruits of thost· in pain so that th~v may sc:t· thdr own fruitfulnc:ss." . 
Nouwt•n's third and final nll'ssag~ was to live: an t't'stati<.: lift:. The: peacc:maker t·annot ht· still-static Rathc:r, ht· said that th~ p<:an·makt·r must continuallr hrc:ak out of old ways of thinking. lk must "kc:ep moving out of that static place and hc:t·om~ nt·w." 
"We: hav~ to believe that wt· can livt· on," Nouwc:n said in a final mt·ssagt·.. "Pray unn·asingly, ami rc:main in th~ I hlust· of Lovt· so that you will survive:." 
• • • Policy 
continuedfrom page I 
diana Foundation for lkalth; a coali­tion of husinesses, doctors and hospitals to study hc:alth care: and t'OSt!o. 
Borelli stated that th~ St·natt· ha.o; no c:vidt·nn· that the: peronnc:l offit'l' considered any alt~rnativ~s to tht· plan. "We: ft:el that the l:nivc:rsity felt itsdf under gn·at tim~ pressure. 
"We: have: no t•viden<T that pt·r­sonnel considt•rt·d any hc:alth main­tc:nann· plan." lie: added. "We: arc not firmly convincc:d that although it may very well be the best plan. it ha.o; not b~en compared to other plans across the <:ountry." 
Bor~lli also propos~d that the plan is unfair in its d~sign. "It is a strong conc~rn of the Senate that the same d~dul'tihle amounts apply to a full prof~ssor as well as to a kitch~n work~r. This is not in the spirit of charity." 
The Senate it~lf is not going to make any proposals on tht· matter. he said. "We are simply demanding that the Univ~rsity make a thorough evaluation of th~ other plans availabk dther through the office of personnel or some other University hody so when a new plan is arriv~d at, w~ can convince the faculty that it is the best plan available .." 
Th~ Senate plans to meet next on Nov. 21. The insurance topk is to bt• the: top priority at that meeting. 
sion. Othc:r participants will he Father Richard McBrien, chairman 
of thc:ology; Father Edward Malloy, associate provost; Timothy O'Meara, provost; Dc:an Porter, director of Snit~ Museum of Art, and Calvin Bower, chairman of music. Fathc:r David Tyson, assistant to th~ presi­dent, will be the cdc:brant at 5: I 5 
p.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. 
Spc:akers on Tu~sday will be Father David Schlaver, director of campus ministry; Father Donald Rowe, S.J., presidc:nt of St. Ignatius College Preparatory School in Chicago; Father Donald McNeill, director of C~nter for Soda! Con­c~rns, and basketball coach Digger Phelps. Father Peter Rocca, will preside at the 5: I 5 p.m. vespers in the Log Chapel. 
John Goldrick, director of admis­sions, and Joseph Russo, director of stud~nt financial aid, will speak at the dosing sessions Wednesday morning. 

What's your pleasure? 
Members of tbe Saint Mary's Programming itiated on campus. Conducting tbe student Committee stop incoming students at the Col­government survey are, from left, Maureen Kar­lege's dining ball to ask tbem what activities and natz, Marie O'Sullivan, and Lorrie Clark. upcoming events they would like to have in­
______iiiiB!!III3!-I!Dllll:miS:~--------------------------------------.. 



ThisDeskCanBeachMadtz. 
Some desk jobs are 
making authority. more exciting than In the air, and on the others. ground, you have 
As a Navy pilot management responsi­or flight officer, your bility from the begin­desk can be a sor>m~s-l?o ning. And your ticated combination responsibility grows of supersonic jet air­asyougainexperience. 
craft and advanced electronicequipment. But you can handle it. Because Navy flight training gives you the navigation, aerodynamics and other technical know-how you need. 
In return, Navy aviation demands something of you as an officer: Leadership. 
Your path to leadership starts with officer training that's among the most demanding in the military. It's intensive leadership and professional schooling combined with rigorous Navy flight training. And it's all geared to prepare No company can give you this kind of leadership responsibility this fast. And nothing beats the sheer excitement of Navy flying. 
The salary is exciting, too. Right away, you'll earn about $18,300 a year. That's better than the average corpora­tion will pay you just outofcollege. And with regular Navy promotions and other pay increases, your annual salary will soar to $31,100 after four years. That's on top of a full package of benefits and privileges. 
Before you settle down to an earth­
you and other college graduates for the unique challenge of Navy aviation. The program is tough but rewarding. 
One important reward for Navy officers is decision-
I 
r-;:V-;-0;;0;;~;;-----;-;;;1 INFORMATION CENTER I 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 
I I
D Please send me more information about becom­ing a member of the Naval Aviation Tham. (0Al
I Name 

First tPieaae Print I t..st 
I

I Address Apt. 1+---­
1 City State Zi I I Age . I
tcollege/University 
:j:Year m College •GP·A------­
1.&Major/Mino• I 
Phone Number-;-::::---==:------==--=-=-:-:-:"""'­
I I 
I 
lAre• CodeI Best Time to Call This is for IJ'!'nen.l recruitment infonnation. You do not have to I 
furnish any of the information requested. Of co•n•. the DlOR!: we know, the more we c.n help to determine the kinds of Navy posi-
L::::::~~·::.------J 
NavyOfficers 
bound desk job, reach for the sky. Reach for the coupon. Find out what it takes to be part of the Naval Aviation Tham. You could have a desk that flies at twice the speed of sound. 


Get-fast. 
Trying to escape a Lion cage 
The Irish attempt to keep bowl hopes alive by beating rapidly-improving PSU 
Joe Paterno 
PSU Head Coach 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 

With their hopes ofa bowl bid resting greatly on a victory tomorrow afternoon, Notre Dame and Penn State hope to salvage a year that has had more disappointments then they probably expected in the pre-season. 
A27-17loss to No. 13 Boston College two weeks ago leaves the 6-4 Nittany Lions with hopes for on­ly a minor bowl bid. The Fiesta Bowl, though, still maintains a great interest in possibly showcasing the Irish onJanuary 2 against Michigan, OhioState, or Boston College. 
Ironically, it was a loss to Penn State that prevented the Irish from getting a Sugar Bowl bid last year, and another loss in 1981 to the Nittany Lions destroyed any slim aspirations the 5-4 Irish then had for a bowl game. 
In both contests the Irish were snake-bitten after taking a lead into the fourth quarter. Two years ago Notre Dame had a 21-17 lead with just over six minutes to play. A dropped touchdown pass by a Notre Dame receiver failed to make the score 28­17 and ensure an Irish victory. Penn State then took over and proceeded to score the winning touchdown on an 82-yard drive. 
Last year, the Irish clinged to :~ 14-1 3 lead in the 
fourrh quarter despite playing without an injured 
Blair Kiel. A 48-yard Todd Blackledge to Curt War­
ner touchdown pass quickly turned the game 
around, though. as Penn State went on to win, 24­
14. 
Although the Lions don't possess the same talent and experience that led them to the national cham­pionship last year, and a No. 5 ranking two years ago, they have bounc.:ed back from offensive problems earlier in the year to record wins in six of .their last seven outings. Included in the streak is a 34-28 victory against then-No. 3 and undefeated Alabama, and a 41-25 trouncing over then-No. 5 and unbeaten West Virginia. 
"'Don't let anyone fool you into thinking Penn State doesn't have a very good football team," says Faust. "It's never easy to defend a national title and thc:·y had a tough S::ptember. but any team that can handle Alabama and West Virginia the way Penn State did obviously has a lot on the ball." 
Penn State has gotten on the ball in great parr be­cause sophomore quarterback Doug Strang has learned to pass the ball with effectivenessand con­sistency. After alternating early in the yt·ar with Doug Lonergan, Strang established himself in a 42­34 loss to Iowa when he threw for 254 yards and 
see LIONS, page 11 



Down~field Blocker 
When not c~atching passes, Joe Howard d<>es more than watch 

By THERON ROBERTS 
!>ports Writer 
When Penn State and Notre Dame take the field tomorrow, there :IS a good chance that the passing game will have a profound effect on the outcome ofthe game. Each team has a "game-breaker" to contend with. The Irish have to worry about the Nittany Lions' fleet Kenny Jack~;on, an All-American at wide receiver. On the other hand, the Lions have to contend with a fleet Notre Dame receiver, who, while not an All­American yet, is even more than a game-breaker. He is an all-purpose receiver who catches, throws, runs, and blocks better than most 
receivers in the country. He is junior Joe Howard. 
Ever since he proved that ht~ earned the title ofa "game bre1ker," Joe Howard has come into his own by utilizing his speed, reliable hands, and field awareness. 
Howard did not waste any time in producing the first big play ofl:lis college career, which came in his sixth game-the 1981 contest against USC. The play was a 56-yard kickoff return which enabled the Irish to attempt a final, but futile, at­tempt to topple the Trojans. 
The next week against Navy, 
Howard had a shot at proving his 
skills at pass receiving. He came 
through again. garnering five 
catches for II 5 yards, including a 
52-yarder for a score. He even 
proved that he could rush with the 
football, accounting for another six 
points on a reverse that covered 13 yards. 
Georgia Tech was the guinea pig in Howard's next long-distance catch exhibition. He provided Notre Dame with its first score by hauling in a 96-yard pass for a touchdown ­a Notre Dame record. Cappingoffan impressive performance, Howard also caught a 58-yard aerial for his second touchdown ofthe day. 
Howard continued his statistical genius for the rest ofthe season, finishing with 17 receptions for 463 yards, despite the fact that he played only halfofthe season, therefore limiting his output. His mark of27.2 yards per catch equaled that of Michigan's Anthony Carter in his freshman season. 
His sensational year was capped offwith his being named as the Irish "player of the game" by ABC-TV in the 37-15 embarrassment at the hands of Miami, a game in which Howard made five catches and was one ofthe few bright spots for a riddled Notre Dame offense. Howard was also named to the Freshman All-America Team by The FootballNews. 
As a sophomore, Howard was of­ten in the shadow ofTony Hunter, who finished fourth on Notre Dame's list ofcareer pass receivers. Howard still managed 28 recep­tions, accounting for 524 yards and two touchdowns. 
There were, however, some ob­
vious shortcomings in the way 
see HOWARD, page 11 


Your TV Guide 
When the Irish line up on offense 

NOTRE DAME OFFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL SE 24 Joe Howard 5·9 171 Jr. 
83 M1ke F avonte 64 196 Sr OT 74 Mike Shiner 6·8 269 Sr. 65 Greg Galle 6 7 263 Sr OG 54 Tim Scannell 6-4 270 So. 72 John Ask1n 66 261 Fr c 63 Mike Kelley 6·5 269 Jr. 62 Ron Plantz 64 266 So SG 79 Neil Maune 6·5 278 Sr. 52 Shawn Heffern 65 254 So ST 53 Tom Doerger 6·5 272 So. 72 John Ask1n 66 261 Fr TE 82 Mark Bavaro 6-4 246 So. 85 Bnan Behmer 66 218 Jr OB 7 Steve Beuerleln 6·3 195 Fr. 5 Blatr K1el 6 1 206 Sr FB 32 Chris Smith 6·2 231 Jr. 35 Mark Brooks 63 228 Jr TB 20 Allen Pinkett 5-9 184 So. 33 H1awalha Fran-LISCO 5 10 185 Fr FL 6 MlltJackson 6.() 181 So. 1 7 Alv1n Miller 64 220 Fr K 4 Mike Johnston 5·11 185 Sr. 8 John Carney 5-10 170 Fr 
Joe Johnson 
Irish enforcer 

I 
I 
I L•· 
PENN STATE DEFENSE 
DE 34 BobWhite 6·2 86 John Walter 6-3 LT 77 Scott Carraher 6-4 52 Joe H1nes 6·2 ST 70 Greg Gattuso 6·3 67 M1ke Russo 62 DE 41 Steve Setter 6·1 55 T1m Johnson 6-3 LB 31 Shane Conlan 6-o 95 Rogers Alexander 62 LB 97 Scott Radecic 6·3 93 Bob Ontko 6-3 
LB 84 Carmen 
Masciantonio 6-2 53 Don Graham 6-2 DB 27 Chris Syndor 6-0 16 Duffy Cobbs 6-0 DB 92 Mark Fruehan 6-2 45 Lance Ham11ton 5-11 s 43 Mike Zordich 5-11 35 M1ke Suter 6-2 HER 17 Harry Hamilton 5-11 29 Barry Buchman 5-11 
p 30 George Reynolds 6-0 



When the line up on 
PENN STATE OFFENSE P03 NO PLAYER HT SE 11 Kevin Baugh 5-9 
87 Kev1n Campbell 6-1 LT 75 Jerome Wllaon 6·3 78 Ron Heller 6-6 LG 63 Todd Moulea 6-1 57 Chns Conlin 6-3 c 58 Nick Haden 6·2 79 RobSm1th 6·2 SG 59 Dan Morgan 6-2 54 D1ck Mag1nms 6·2 ST 69 Stan Short 6·4 65 Ed Boone 6-5 TE 89 Dean DiMidio 6·3 80 Ktrk Bowman 6-1 OB 18 Doug Strang 6-1 14 John Shaffer 6-3 FB 44 Jon Williams 5·10 24 Skeeter N1chols 6·0 TB 42 D.J. Dozier 6·1 12 Tony Mumford 5-10 FL 82 Kenny Jackson 5·11 81 George Alpert 5-11 K 13 Nick Gancitano 5·7 

WT CL 176 Sr. 172 Jr 245 Jr. 254 Sr 251 So. 245 Fr 248 Sr. 245 Fr. 254 So. 250 Sr 258 Jr. 265 Fr 211 So. 240 Sr 200 Jr. 192 Fr 198 Sr. 204 Jr 196 Fr. 180 Jr 169 Sr. 185 Fr 167 Jr. 

Lions offense 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE  
E  55 MikeGollc  6-5  
56 Robert Banks  6·5  
FT  78 MikeGann  6·5  
96 Wally Kle1ne  6·8  
NT  38 Jon Au1ry  6·2  
94 M1ke Gnff1n  6-4  
CT  71 Eric Dorsey  6-5  
92 Greg Dtngens  6·5  
LB  37 Rick Naylor  6·3  
43 R1ck D1Bernardo  6·3  
LB  58 Tony Furjanic  6-2  
57 Dave Butler  6·3  
LB  87 Joe Bars  6·5  
47 Tom Murphy  6·2  
CB  12 Troy Wilson  5·11  
30 Stacey Toran  6·4  
CB  40 Pat Ballage  6·2  
48 John Mosley  6·1  
ss  27 Joe Johnson  6·2  
34 Daane  Sp1el­ 
maker  6-1  
FS  9 Chris Brown  6·1  
23 Steve Lawrence  6·0  
p  5 Blair Klel  6·1  
1 0 Dave Meadows  5·11  

225 Fr. 215 Jr 241 Sr. 256 Sr 260 Sr. 252 Fr 227 Sr. 220 Fr 
200 Fr. 
193 So 
238 Sr. 
230 Fr 
221 Jr. 230 Fr 192 Jr. 180 Fr 196 Sr. 185 So 211 So. 196 Sr 191 Sr. 190 Fr 
194 Sr. 
251 Jr. 235 Fr 256 Jr. 272 Fr. 246 Sr. 235 Fr 269 So. 
257 So 
227 Sr. 
228 So 
231 So. 
210 Fr 
237 Jr. 219 Sr 170 Fr. 206 Sr 197 &o. 248 Sr 198 Jr. 
203 Sr. 196 Sr. 180 Fr 206 Sr. 180 Sr 

By PAUL ALEXANDER 
Sports W'rlter 
Pt·nn Stat<= Daily Colkgian 
Tht:re is one very luminous drawback to being on top. tht: only place to go is down. 
Pt:nn State was the king oftht: hill last yt:ar in college football and much of the praise and laurds wt:rt: ex­temkd toward an incrt:dibly gifted and talented widt: rt:cciver named Kenny jackson. 
Jackson was tht: tirst wide receiver in Penn State his­
tory to have first·tt:am All-American honors bestowed 
upon him. I k set 22 Penn State rt:cords prior to this, hb 
st·nior vear. 
W'he.re docs ont: go after being a major contributor to 
your school's first-ever national championship and, in 
the process, receiving AII-Amt:rican honors? Well, for 
the 'i-1 I, 169-pound senior from South River, N.j., the 
19H~ campaign has been a bit of a cold slap in the face 
from last year's cinderella story. 
"It's bt:en very frustrating," jackson says. "Both for me and the team. I'm not pt:rforming like I have in the past in doing tht: things that I know I'm capable of doing. I feel guilty and I feel there is a lot ofpressure on me even though I know that no one is putting any pressure on me." 
One thing that jackson's success has goltlen him this 
season is a whole lot ofattention from opposing 
defenses. He is consistently double-and, sometimes, 
triple-teamed. 
Teams like Boston College made no secret ofthe fact 
that they planned on keeping tht: ball out ofjackson's 
hands. jack McNeil, the Eagle's ht:ad coach, said he 
feared Jackson mort: than any other player in the 
country and he planned on having his defenst: aware of 
his every movement. 
"Last year we had Curt Warner and Todd Blackledge 
and teams couldn't look for mt: and watch me as close­
ly," Jackson says. "This yt:ar they prepart:d for me and, 
when you're a wide out, it's different. You art: so far 
away from tht: ball and, if the deft:nse really wants to 
prevent you from gt:tting the ball. tht:y can do it." 
Most tt:ams havt: been very successful at kt:t:ping tht: 
hall away from Jackson this season and, unfortunately, 
the offen~e·s inconsistt:ncy has rubbed off a little bit on 
tht: normally sure-handed receiver. Thert: was a two· 
point conversion and the surt: touchdown against 
Alabama that fell harmlessly to the ground. 
No one in Beaver Stadium could believe their eyes. 
Was this the same guy that put on an unbelievable show 
in the tamous 48-14 destruction ofthe then No. !­
ranked Pitt Panthers in 1981? Wasn't that H2 that did 
the ~60 on the sidelines that faked out everybody, 
including the cameraman? 
It was the one and only, but, as Jackson puts it, things 
are not the same this year. "It's very hard to get a grasp 
on this team. Everybody works hard and we beat West 
Virginia and Alabama. Just a bunch of intangibles. Every 
continued from page 9 
three scores. For the year, he has thrown for over 1,400 yards and 14 touchdowns while throwing only five interceptions in the last nine games. 
It helps, ofcourse, to have great receivers. In all-America can­didate Kenny Jackson, Strang has one of the best flankers in the na­tion. Notre Dame cornerback Stacey Toran calls the 'i-1 1, 169-pound Jackson the best and most dangerous receiver he's ever gone up against -which includes former Michigan All-American, Anthony Carter. 
BecauseJackson has seen so much double coverage this year, Strang has thrown the ball more to another outstanding receiver, senior split end Kevin Baugh. Baugh leads Penn State receivers with ~ 1 catches for 477 yards and five touchdowns. 
The real story of the Penn State offense of late, however, has been the running offreshman tailback D.). Dozier. Every year it seems that some freshman running back takes college football by storm. In 1980 it was Herschel Walker, in 1981 it was Florida State's Greg Al­len. and la-;t year it was Marcus DuPree. This year, Dozier has put on the type ofperformances that will undoubtedly make him a Heisman Trophy candidate in the years to come. 
Though he didn't starr playing regularly until the fourth game of the season, Dozier has already rushed for 898 yards this year while averagingover six yards a carry. Because ofan injury, he saw the ball only once against West Virginia but made the most o(it by taking a simple screen pass for 47 yards and a touchdown. 
Dozier will be complemented well in the backfield thanks to the presence ofseniorjon Williams. Williams started the year at tailback, but injuries to both ofhis knees slowed him down and forced him back to the fullback position he played all oflast year. He ha.<; picked up 47~ yards this year and is averaging more then five yards every time he totes the ball. Williams put on the performance ofa lifetime two years ago against the Irish when he ran for 192 yards while replacing an injured Curt Warner. 
'With Williams and Dozier healthy and running together, their running attack is that much tougher to stop," says Faust ofthe attack that has averaged over 200 rushing yards a game. 
Fortunatelv. the Notre Dame defense won't have to contend with against the Nittany Lions in the inaugu sic, and it appt:art:d the every team ca Stadium thinking the'y could beat Penn like Cincinnati did just that ratht:r tha dead. 
"Tht: whole team is tlat." Jackson sa) State lapses. "It's not jusl one pt:rson. I my senior year has bet:n a very tough t been a tough time for all of us. I want when I'm gone and may bt: playing pn this wt:ars off. It's hurt me, but I want e that I still love Penn Statt:." 
The numbers for Jackson this yt:ar ones posted last season. This year he just I 7 passes for 274 yards and only t One of the problems that a st:nior yea tics can prest:nt is a lowering of an in the football draft. Dan Marino, the fo at Pitt, was on the top of the world a But. after a lackluster senior year, Ma seventh quarterback picked in the drj pens to be the leading passer in the A~ 
"I've never really sat back and thou~ the scouts think about me,"jackson sa)' I think about myselfas a football playe haven't put in three good years for not cause I'm not having a great year doesn and say, 'I nt:vcr was a good football pi didn't do this or I didn't do that.' I kno'l" When I kave I know exactly what I pu tht: fans don't know. They want to knt done for tht:m lately. It's cruel when } well. but it's great wht:n you are." 
The most frustrating aspect of.Jacksl 
he can't simply get tht: ball when he v, 
from being with the same quarterback'! 
being with a first-year quartt:rback an 
double-covt:rage. 

"Doug Strang is a very capable quarl think he is going to he a very good qual that we're now getting used to each otl years for things to really click with ToJ my tendencies and I knew his, that's w well togt:ther." 
Jackson is still every bit as fdst as he athletic ability is still definitely in tact. that can really be learned is that, whe the only place to go is down. 
"I know I'll get what I deserve in th son said. "I really believe that." Danny Marino probably believed t 
a Bill Fralic on the 
part to the presen 
allowed more yar 
than against any o 
only two starters 
this year. 

Thus, the Notre behind Texas and only for the big pia will also have to w burgh utilized so State is very capab 
One lineup cha Joe Bars in place o position. Kovales quarter against Pitt out the year, step 
13 tackles. 

last week's perfor 
tions before being 
freshman quarterb 
to a very severe tcs 
wish him ill. 

Beuerlein will h; Larry Williams and tearing ligaments i listed as doubtful a 
Veteran MikeSh~ Doerger. who has r with Neil Maune tion. 

verly sprained his right ankle early in the Jirst 
ars, who had his own share ofinjuries throt,gh­~n and performed admirably as he had a hand in 
the major disappointment for the Nittany lions g to give up 44 points to Nebraska, but it's anoth­


The Series 
ts to Rutgers and 21 to Brown. For the year, the n average of419 yards to the opponent and luve 
1913 1976 
ions, given up over :B5 yards through the air. 
e>pes to take advantage ofthat erratic pass 
Notre Dame 14, Penn State 7 ND20, PSU9 
his seventh start ofthe year, trying to atone for 

(Gator Bowl) 

ance against Pitt when he threw three inter•:ep­
1925

eplaced by Blair KieL The poise and calm ofthe ck, perhaps his greatest asset all year, will be :;mt 

NDO, PSUO 1981 
by over 84,000 fans at Beaver Stadium who will 
. ,, 


PSU 24, ND 21 

e to do without the protection ofregular tackles 
1926 

ike Perrino. Williams is out for the sea5on lfter 
ND28, PSUO 1982

his left ankle against Pittsburgh while Perrino is 
,,-1 11 ,n·n rfOJhl ...,.n, 
.,. ..,,~n' 

er injuring his shoulder against the Panther!;. 

PSU 24, ND 14 

er will fill Williams' slot, and versatile Tom 
1928 

ostly alternated at the guard positons this yc~ar d Tim Scannell, will be moved to Perrino's p:>si­

ND9, PSUO 

Jon Williams 

PSUfullback 

D[JD0ITJ lJill'iJ~(Dw







------11111!!!1!--·---------.... ,/''' 
~ntion 
t had a chance 
ar::'s national 
~s to happen. g is going to hap­d this year." ebraskadid 
al Kickoff Clas­
le into Beaver 
·tate. And teams 
simply playing 
ofthe few Penn had to say that 1e, hut it has. It's >make sure that all that none of eryone to know 
e far from the 
spulled down 
ee touchdowns. 
with poor statis­
ividual's value in er quarterback ~.. r his junior year. J no was the . Now he hap­
s. " Iknow what and I know I ing.Just he­
1mean I sit hack yer' or that 'I :what I've done. nto football, hut 
what you've u're not doing 
m's plight is that 
mts to. He went 
or three years to 
a lot more 
crhack and I 
tcrback. It's just 
cr. It took three 
and!. He knew 
y we worked so 
ever was and his 
The only lesson 
you're on top, 
long run," Jack­
: same thing. 
pposite side ofthe line this week. Thanks in .large : ofFralic and centerjim Sweeney, the Irish Lge on the ground against Pittsburgh, 160 y:U"ds, 1er team this year. The Penn State line returned 
m last year's squad, but they have gelled well 
arne defense, which still ranks third in then1tion iami in total defense, will have to watch out, not from gamebreakerslikejackson and Dozier, but 
li:h out for the ball-control offense that Pitm­11 with joe McCall last week, and which Penn ofrunning with their two outstanding bac;<s. 
e.in the Notre Dame defense will feature junior eshman Mike Kovaleski at one inside linebacker 

Kenny Jackson 
PSU flanker First-team All-American 
Although Penn State's defense has had its problems this year, it boasts its usual all-America candidate at linebacker in senior Scott Radecic. Seniors Greg Gattuso and Steve Sefter will lead the charge up front against the Notre Dame offensive line. Ifthe Irish can con­tain these two experienced veterans, the offense should be able to control the line ofscrimmage. Afourth threat on the Penn State defense is its senior "hero-back" -a linebacker-safety combination -Harry Hamilton who may blitz a lot to rattle Beuerlein. 
As usual, Penn State boasts one ofthe best kicking games in the na­tion. Nick Gancitano has been successful on 14 ofhis 18 field goal at­tempts this year, and punter George Reynolds has averaged over 42 yards a punt this year. 
"Playing at Penn State will be as big a challenge as we've had this season," says Faust. "They're still the defending national champions, and somehow I have a feeling they'll play like that against us." 
Ifthey do, there won't be a fiesta for Notre Dame in more ways lhan one. 

PENN STATE 
.-r•aay, Nqvember 11,1983. page 11 


Lions 
• • • Howard 

continued from page 9 
Howard was utilized in his second year. He did not catch a touchdown pass until the eighth game ofthe season, and his average per catch dropped almost nine yards. So far this season the Clinton, Md., native has made 23 catches, averaging just under 1 5 yards a reception. 
Is Howard's production being li_mited by the fact that he is drawing double coverage? That does not ap­pear to be the answer. because the Irish have a deep and experienced receiving corps which could take advantage ofa defense keying too much on one person. Or is it due to the fact that he has had to live through the development of two quarterbacks who have yet to show that they can get the ball to their receivers consistently? 
So far this season, most of the small number ofpasses thrown to Howard have been short patterns over the middle, which are designed to take advantage of his knack for eluding would-be tacklers. 
"I've accepted the role that I have now," says the 5-9, 171-pound Howard. 'Til just continue to go out and do the things that I'm able to do, and then maybe I'll be able to catch more passes and get to'do more things." 
The junior split end has been asked to play two roles this year that are new to him. He and senior flanker Mike Favorite play the leadership role among the receivers. The whole receiving corps has also been pressed into duty as downfield blockers, responsible for enabling Allen Pinkett & Co. to break a couple of long gainers by throwing key blocks once the ball carriers are past the offensive line. 
Howard has been called by some writers as "one ofthe best downfield blockers in college football." He himselfcredits his development as a downfield blocker to the fact that he was a running back in high school. But he also gives a great deal of credit to receivers coach Mike Stock. "We practice how to block, something that you wouldn't think 
,. .pass.r~swcwlfil "'' 'b.l;lo~. states. "Before, we weren't looked towards for that much blocking. Now the receivers are looked towards for more blocking, and we are a big part ofthe runninggame, as well as the passing game." The second key area the coaches look for Howard to help with is leadership. "We are looking for him 
\ 
to provide leadership among the 
receivers," Stock says. "He is the 
veteran ofa young group." 
Howard does not see any dif­ficulty with his leadership role. "I try to give the younger guys support by letting them know that they can go out and do the job just as good as anyone. A lot ofthe times we are pushing each other -everyone is making everyone else perform a little better. We all pick up little things from each other, too. I learn things from Mike (Favorite). Milt (Jackson). and Alvin (Miller) sometimes. 
"I think we have the best 
receivers in the country because we 
don't just have one or two good 
receivers, but we have seven or 
eight players that could go about 
anywhere and play for any team, but 
it's unfortunate that we have so 
much talent at the two spots and 
guys have to wait for their turn." 
Howard thinks that the progress of his younger stablemates is cause for optimism for the future. "The younger guys are comingalong well. MiltJackson is starting to play a big part on offense, catclling five passes against Pitt. Alvin Miller and Alonzo jefferson are making a lot of progress, and we also have Mike 
Haywood and Van Pearcy." 
Although the young players men­
tioned may have a lot of potential, 
Howard is close to reaching his. "I 
feel that I'm getting better," he says. 
"I think I run my routes better, and I 
have a lot ofconfidence in myselfbe­
cause the coaches have shown a lot 
ofconfidence in me." 
Howard's intelligence is 
noticeable, especially on the 
practice field. "Knowing both the 
flanker and split end positions, as 
well as the scheme ofthe offense and 
the different coverages the defense 
plays, helps a receiver to get open a 
lot more easily. 
This season, Howard has had to 
read the defense in a way that was 
new to him. Against Navy, he threw a 
touchdown to Milt jackson on a 
reverse pass play. "Big plays like that 
always stick out," Howard says. "But 
they are just another one ofthe 
many dimensions to our offense. I 
was pretty excited about throwing 
for the touchdown, but you can't 
live on those things because you 
have other things ahead ofyou." 
Forjoe Howard, Notre Dame's big 
play machine in a small package, 
game-breaking plays have become 
old hat. 
. 

····-··--------------------------­
_j 


PENN STATE 
Friday, Nqvember 11,1983 ·page 12 

NOTRE DAME VS. PENN STATE 


THE GAME 
GAME: Fighting Iri.-;h vs. Penn State Nittany Uons SITE: Beaver Stadium ( 84,000) TIME: I :00 p.m. EST; Saturday, Nov. 12, 1983 
WNDU-lV(Ch. 16) Jack Nolan and jeffjeffers 
TV-RADIO: Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network Harry Kalas and George Connor 

Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and AI Wester WNDll-AM 1500 
SERIES: Notre Dame 4, Penn State 2, ties I LAST MEETING: November 13, 1982 Penn State 24, Notre Dame 14 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, Penn State unranked TICKETS: Game is sold out 

THE SCHEDULE 
NOTRE DAME PENN STATE 
SEPT. I 0 def. Purdue, 52-6 AlJG. 29 lost to Nebraska, 44-6 SEPT. 17lost to Mich. St., 28-23 SEPT. 10 lost to Cincinnati, 14-3 SEPT. 24Iost to Miami (Fia), 20-0 SEPT. 17lost to Iowa, 42-34 OCT. I de[ Colorado, 27-3 SEPT. 24 de( Temple, 23-18 OCT. 8 de( South Carolina, 30-6 OCT. I de( Rutgers, 36-25 OCT. 15 de( Army, 42-0 OCT. 8 de( Alabama, 34-28 OCT. 22 de( Southern Cal, 27-6 OCT. I 5 de( Syracuse, I 7-6 OCT. 29 de( Navy, 28-12 OCT. 22 de( West Virginia, 41-23 NOV. 5 lost to Pittsburgh, 21-16 OCT. 29 lost to Boston C., 27-17 NOV. 12 at Penn State NOV. 5 det: Brown, 38-21 NOV. 19 AIR FORCE NOV. 12 NOTRE DAME 
The Coach 
Joe Paterno 
Alma Mater 
Brown, '50 

Years Coaching 
34 

Head Coach 
18 years 

Years at PSU 
34 

PSU Head Coach 
18 years 

Career Record 
168-38-1 

National Championships 
1982 




THE STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TD LG 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 3674 2311 Pinkett 9 189 980 5.2 11 Total Plays 670 595 Smith 9 65 367 5.6 Yards per Play 5.5 3.9 Francisco 8 38 189 5.0 0 Yards per Game 408.2 256.8 Bell 5 37 169 4.6 PENAL TIES-YARDS 63-642 58-508 Brooks 9 32 161 5.0 2 FUMBLES-LOST 16-8 21-8 Machtolf 3 14 78 5.6 0 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 195 138 Howard 9 4 61 15.2 

By Rushing 111 58 Flemons 2 13 52 4.0 0 By Passing 71 67 Grooms 1 2 33 16.5 0 By Penalty 13 13 Abraham 7 13 32 2.5 1 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 65-140 44-137 Mtller 9 1 19 19.0 0 Percentage .464 .321 Carter 1 2 9 4.5 0 POSSESSION TIME 28349 256.11 Jackson 9 1 1 1.0 0 Mtnutes per Game 31.32 28.28 Ktel 9 17 -7 -0.4 1 Beuerletn 8 22 -11 -0 5 0 
ND 9 450 2133 4.7 20 OPP 9 349 1028 2.9 

PASSING G NO co PCTINT YDS TD SCORING GTD PAR-PAS Beuerlein 8120 60 .500 5 801 4 Kiel 9 93 48 .516 6 625 5 
Pinkett 9 13 0-0 1-1 0 0-0 

Pinkett 9 1 1 1.000 0 59 0 Johnston 9 0 29-29 0-0 0 10-17 
Howard 9 1 1 1.000 0 29 1 Bell 5 5 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 
K. Smith 5 2 1 .500 0 15 0 Bavaro 9 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 
Cushing 2 1 1 1.000 0 12 0 Smith 9 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 
Grooms 2 0 .000 0 0 0 Brooks 9 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 Jackson 9 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 
ND 9 220 112 .509 111541 10 Abraham 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 OPP 9 246 126 .512 141283 6 
Howard 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 Kiel 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TD LG Wilson 8 0 0-0 0-0 1 0-0 
Team 9 0 0-0 0-0 1 0-0 Howard 9 23 334 14.5 1 58 Pinkett 9 22 198 9.0 2 59 ND 9 30 29-29 1-1 2 10-17245Bavaro 9 15 271 18.1 3 59 OPP 913 7-9 1-4 0 5-6102 Jackson 9 14 262 18.7 2 61 Smith 9 9 98 10.9 1 
26 DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FA BK Favorite 8 8 123 15.4 0 18 Bell 5 6 65 10.8 1 23 Fuf)anic 115 3-5 3 0 Francisco 8 5 51 10.2 0 15 Kovaleskt 62 2-4 4 0 Jefferson 9 3 47 15.7 0 16 
Naylor 56 1-2 2 0 Miller 9 2 43 21.5 0 25 Golic 50 10-28 1 2 Brooks 9 2 14 70 0 11 Ball age 46 2-4 5 0 Abraham 7 1 17 17.0 0 17 Johnson 40 4-23 3 2 Machtoll 3 1 12 12.0 0 12 
Gann 39 1-8 1 0 Williams 
5 6 6.0 0 6 Autry 32 3-11 0 1 

Brown 28 0-0 5 0 NOTRE DAME 9 112 1541 13.8 10 61 Toran 19 0-0 
0 0 OPPONENTS 9 126 1283 10.2 6 81 
Din gens 18 3-9 2 0 
53 1 37 33 
450 31 13 
030 34 25 11 19 9 1 7 19 
53 7 34 
FG TP 
80 59 30 18 12 12 12 6 6 6 2 2 
0 0 0 0 0 0 
c 
0 0 0 0 



PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion 
given the underdog points. 

Louie Somogyi Will Hare Mike Sullivan Jane Healey David Dziedzic Kyle Sweeney Maureen Burke Sports Writer Sports WritCT Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor Editor-in-Chief Future Celebrity Random Student 6l.u-J 57~ 57-49-3 55-St-3 50-5(>.3 55-51-3 54-51-3 .513 .531 .537 .511 .472 .511 .509 
lJCLA over ARIZONA by 3 Wildcats Bruins Wildcats Wildcats Bruins Bruins Bruins Miami over FLORIDA STATE by I Seminoles Hurricanes Seminoles Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes W~HINGTON overSouthern Cal by 6 Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies TEXAS A&M over Arkansas by 2 Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Aggies Razorbacks Aggies Aggies SMU over Texas Tech by 19 Raiders Raiders Raiders Raiders Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs MISSOURI over Oklahoma State by 8 Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers NEBRASKA over Kansa.~ by 41 Jayhawks Jayhawks Jayhawks Cornhuskers Jayhawks Cornhuskers Cornhuskers ILUNOIS over Indiana by 30 Hoosiers Hoosiers IUini lllini Hoosiers lllini Hoosiers TEXAS over TClJ by 23 Longhorns Frogs Frogs Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns F~ggs Boston College over !>'YRACUSE by I 2 Eagles Eagles Eagles Orangemen Eagles Eagles Orangemen HARVARD over Penn by I.'5 Quakers Quakers Crimson Quakers Quakers Quakers Quakers Auburn even with GEORGIA Eagles Bulldogs Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Bulldogs CLEMSON over Maryland by 3 Terps Tigers Terps Terps Terps Terps Tigers PENN STATE over Notre Dame by 2 Irish Irish Irish Irish Lions Irish Irish 

Baby photo courtesy of Marc Ramirez 
_:..:..._......:.__ ___ . ~·-·­

Showcase~ Friday, November 11, 1983-page 11 
Skating down from heaven: The Flying Fathers 
by Mary Jacoby 
features staffwriter 
'VJhen: dse but Notre Dame 
W would you have the chance to see a team ofhockey-playingpriest>? How about Canada. most ofthe United States, and Europe? "No way,"you might think, but it's true! The Flying Fathers, a group ofpriests who play hockey for charity, have performed all over the world. Their "Harlem Globetrotters" style act was presented in an exhibition at the ACC Wednesday night. 
Playing three 20-minute periodli against the Notre Dame club hockey team, the Saintjoe's High School team, and the Ice Boxers ofthe Mic­hiana Senior League, the Flying Fathers delighted a near-capacity 
crowd with their ice antics. Espe­
cially favored among the 
predominately South Bend-area 
audience wa.'i the goalie, Father 
Vaughan Quinn, and his assistant, 
Edward St. Bear. St. Bear was not much ofa factor in the game, however, because he is only a two pound stuffed toy. But he did present a certain ragged charm that would transpose well into a success­ful poster. Who knows? Ifthe Flying 
Fathers hit it big, Garfield and Snoopy may be replaced by Edward St. Bear as the chiefexpouser of 
cutesy postersayings. Now aren't you sorry you missed Wednesday's game? 
The action began in the first period against the Notre Dame team. Close into the period, no. 8 Adam Parsons scored a goal for Notre Dame. In response, the Flying Fathers promptly ordained him into the priesthood. All the players gathered in a circle around Parsons, who was given a lighted candle to hold and a black cape to wear, as Father Quinn made the sign ofthe cross over the kneeling figure_ The ceremony ended with Smitty the Clown, another member ofthe Flying Fathers' entourage, delivering a cream pie in Parson's face. The crowd applauded ap-preciatively at thefirst ofseveral religious-oriented skits. 
Play continued with Edward St_ Bear, miniature goalie stickpropped angularly against his body, posi­tioned on the ice in front ofthe Flying Fathers' goal. St. Bear was in­strumental in drawing a roughing penalty from no. 10 Tom Parent of Notre Dame. Parent purposely roared over the defenseless St. Bear with obvious malice, and he received a two minute penalty for acting like a Protestant. However, most ofthe penalty was lifted when Parent promised to say his prayers. 
The game proceeded with peri­odic disruptions by FatherQuinn. At one point, Quinn actually picked up the puck, ran to the Notre Dame goal, and made a score assisted by God_ Or at least that is what the Flying Fathers claimed But ap­parently God did hold the Flying Fathers in favor Wednesday night as Notre Dame lost 6-1. 
The Flying Fathers consist of 17 priests or seminarians who have had substantial hockey-playing ex­perience. One member, Father Les Costello, played with the Toronto Maple Leafs ofthe National Hockey League before entering the priest­hood. All ofthe players are Canadian except for Father Quinn. Formed in 1963, the team has raised overa mil­lion dollars for various charities. Proceeds from Wednesday's game went to Phoenix House, a transition­al residence for recovering al­coholic women located in South Bend 







Showcase 
Friday, November II, I983 -page I2 

The Beaux Arts Ball-a tradition you can't pass up 
In exchange for one ticket, the holder receives 
enrrance into a traditionally packed all night costume party complete with complimentary refreshmenrs, a 
by Timothy Gianotti 
features staffwriter 
meticulously garnished ballroom and a live hand that 
R
umors of theft and sabotage.circulate through the vt_-ntilation system ofthe Architecture Building. The advertising l·ampaign for this semester's Beaux Arts Ball has apparl·ntly been moved underground. The promo­tional posters, designed hy Margaret Derwent, have dis­appl-art:d into dorm rooms and off campus residencies, leaving little hope for recovery. 
Doug Gauthier, chairman of Beaux Arts, speaks high­ly ofthe artwork and looks upon the outbreak ofposter snatching as a positive reaction to the campaign. 
The biannual bash is sponored by the second and fourth yl·ar architecture studenrs in conjunction with the American Institute ofArchitects and will be held in the main lobby ofthe Architecture Building on Friday night. The doors open at ten, and, in the course oftradi­tion, no determination will be made concerning their 
closure. 


Letters to a Lonely God 
plays until people stop dancing. 
The theme of this semester's ball, "Black and White 
All Night," brings the focus ofcostumes (mandatory), 
decorations and mood on the black and white color 
scheme. 

"People arc allowed to do and wear anything within 
the black and white theme," Gauthier insists. "It is really 
a chance to show offyour creativity." 
Past themes include: "New Modern Heroes," "Bad 
Taste," and "At the Louvre." 
"The Kinetics," the band for the evening (and un­doubtedly the morning), is not new to the Beaux Arts experience. Gauthier forewarns that there will be no slow songs and that this band loves to play ... and play. 
"Ifpeople are still dancing, they will keep playing," 
he says. "It has to be one ofthe best partieson campus." 
Chairperson Gauthier says that this no new or local 
event, however. In fact, its roots trace back to Paris. The 
Beaux Arts Ball began in L'ecole de Beaux Arts (the 
school of Fine Arts) as an annual ball put on by the 
professors as a student, faculty mixer in the Fall. Every 
Spring, the students reciprocated by putting on their 
own ball -a farce of the Fall event. 
It was a costume ball, designed to present a parody on formality in general and the Beaux Arts Ball in partcular. It has since become a tradition for almost all schools of architeture in Europe and the U.S. to keep this tradition alive. 
"We're trying to restore some ofthe tradition in the department this year," Gauthier explains. "The black and white theme is really the closest to the original con­cept. 
"It's all a part ofthe work hard play hard ethic. Ar­chitects are famous for pulling all-nighters with their work, and this is just the same thing with play. If you en­joy seeing something new and different, come along." 
Tickets are now on sale in the dining halls at 54 a per­son. Posters will also go on sale before and after the ball for a dollar each, and will continue to be available at the Architecture Building while the demand lasts. 
Timothy Gianotti is a freshman artsand letters stu­dentfrom Portland, Oregon. 



The place on the river 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
A
ngry readers, berating the ar­ticles I write for the Catholic press; send letters asking ifl con­sider myself a CathoUc priest. A wortby pastor ofsouls, they tell me, wouldn't he so cynical or worldly. A worthwhile priest would be embar­rassed to admit that he drinks Man­hattans or smokes Pall Malls. He would never be seen at dinner in the Russian Tea Room wearing a shirt and necktie. One woman wrote ofa Jesuit who, ifhe has to eat out, gets a hot dog and a glass of milk; he never goes anywhere he can't wear his Roman collar. A Catholic editor says that I'm wasting my talent writing trivia. Our Lady's message at Fatima and Lourdes would be an ap­propriate topic. The survival ofthe street people in Manhattan isn't sig­nificant enough to write about. 
Some Catholics, the saying goes, are more Catholic than the Pope, which means they are narrower in their views than the Pope is. Not even the Pope symbolizes all that is meant by Catholicism with its rich variety ofrepresentative figures. Martin Luther was a type ofCatholic. As a monk condemned to death for heresy, he was more important to the Church than the children of Fatima Bernadette Soubirous wa:; a dear little saint, with her visions ofa lovely lady dressed in light, but Lourdes is scarcely an article offaith updating the Gospel. 
Astudent going to Mass every day hates being calkd a Catholic. Cath· olic seems so limited, he says, as though one's faith were a chipoffthe old block, which has been a stum­bling block for so many; the Church has done so much harm. He likes the sacraments and poetry ofworshi~ but he doesn't want to be weighed down with the sins ofthe institution like a cross on his back. He loves the traditions, but hates the ecclesiasti­cal politics. If he call himselfa Chris­tian, people won't think he's been brain-washed by the Pope. 
In the Church I was ordained in, the world was divided into Catholics and non-Catholics. Catholics, we told each other, were not all alike. American Catholics were not like European Catholics; Europeans were more intellectual, but Americans were better givers, and they had never had a heresy. Cat­holics had the one, true faith; non­Catholics had glimpses ofthe truth divided up among them. lfthey were sincere, God would save them, but they lacked the advantages. 
I get asked by the alumsJs Notre Dame still Catbolicf The question probably means: Are the students going to Mass? Is the Grotto busy? Does the Blessed Mother still stand in the pathway ofthe sun and the moon? Is dogma and morality still being taught? Reassuring the alums, I think about being Catholic. The Church, which is Catholic, is a mys­tery ofgrace. I am part ofthe mys­tery as I am part ofthe physical world, which is too intricately fas­hioned for my understanding. Being Catholic means I have a certain relationship to Christ, which profes­sional theologians work hard to describe:; on the grass roots level, I try to maintain that relationship by staying In a state ofgrace. The cat· hedral ofChartres is Catholic, as 
well as the ministry ofMother 
Teresa, or the writings of Dannte 
and Graham Greene. What is the 
charisma that identifies the written 
word, the chiselled stone, or the 
Gospel mercies as Catholic? The 
Word became flesh, and dwelt 
among us: The universe enjoying the 
honor ofthe Spirit touching dust 
becomes a sacrament celebrated by 
poetry and art and the acts of mar­
riage. God died upon the cross, 
defeating sin and death. Where, in 
Beirut or Grenada, Is the proofof 
this Catholic truth? Faith shows God 
writing straight with crooked lines. 
There is scarcely a heresy in Christendom which is not partly Catholic. The Catholic Church, as a human structure, has had its problem, but it's place is on the river where the lifestreams begin. A stu­dent is embarrassed to be: called a Catholic. Some days, I'm embar­rassed to be a human being, but it's too late to sign on as an angel. Oncea Catbolic, aluaysa Catholic. As an agnostic, I'd be a Catholic agnostic. As kindling wood for the everlasting bonfire, I'd be Catholic kindling wood. As they say about man's best friend: A thoroughbredis no more thana dog; a mutt is no less thana dog. The bloodline only tellsyou what to expect ofa creature's tem­perment orappeamnce. TheJesuit eating a frankfurt is no more than a Catholic or no less than a Catholic. As a cynic dining in mufti at the Rus­sian Tea Room, I'm a Catholic cynic, full ofworldliness. 
Catholics, depending on their bloodlines, can be narrow-minded; it's their Christian way ofbeing better-than-thou. The Church in its representative members is as broad as the way that leads to destruction. 

•DANCE 
An international banquet and dance will be held in the Chautau­
qua Ballroom Saturday. International food will he served from 7 to 9 
p.m., after which the dance will go on until 1. Tickets at 55, or S1 for 
just the dance, will be sold at the door. 
"Black and white all night" is the the theme for the Architecture 
Department's Beaux Arts Ball, a costume ball to be held tonight in 
the Architecture Building beginning at 10. The kinetics will supply 
the music, and admission is S4. 
•MUSIC 
Raymond Sprague will conduct a joint concert tonight ofthe Saint 
Mary's Women's Choir and the Glee Club of Miami University in 
Ohio. The 80-member glee club will perform selections from" Hello 
Dolly" and "Wildcat" as well as "0 Filii et Fillea" and others. The 
women's choir will sing "Confitemini Domino" and "Blow the Wind 
Southerly" amongothers.The groups will also join for two numbers. 
The free concert begins at 8 in the Saint Mary's Little Theatre. 
The Music Department's Fall Concert will be held Sunday at 8 in 
the Little Theatre, also conducted by Raymond Sprague. 
ACello Masterclass will be presented by Fritz Magg tomorrow at 2 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. Magg will also present a Guest Cello Recital on Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Annenberg. 
The Southold Symphonic Wind Band, an Indiana University at South Bend music ensemble, will perform tonight in the Northside Hall Main Auditorium on the !USB campus. The concert will feature such selections as Shostakovich's Galop ad Holst's First Suite in E Flat. Admission is ti'ee for the 8:15p.m. concert. 
Renowned pianist Joseph St:hwartz will join the Elkhart Symphay Orchestra in a program ofmusic ofthe Romantic Period at 3:30p.m. Sunday, at the Concord Performing Arts Center. Pieces by Brahms, Wagner and Ravel will be performed, and Schwartz will present the Brams Piano Concerto No. I in D Minor. 
•ART 
An exhibition ofsome of the most popular prints by the classic 
American lithographers Currier and Ives opens Sunday in the Snite 
Museum. The showsurve .ysa wide variety ofsubjects examining the 
nature ofAmerican middle class values. The exhibition runs through 
December 31 in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 
An exhibition ofrecent photographs by undergraduate student 
Steve Prinster is on display in the Isis Gallery ofthe Art Building. 
Harold Zisla, art professor at !USB, will present a lecture titled 
"Trials and Errors: Acceptance of Reality or Art: Rewards ofthe 
Battle ofBeing" Sunday at 2 p.m. Admission is S1 for the lecture, to 
be held at the Art Center in South Bend. 
•MASS 
The Masses this Sunday in Sacred Heart Church will have the 
following celebrants: 
Fr. William Beauchamp, at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil) 
Fr.)ohn Van Wolvlear, at 9 a.m. 
Msgr. Gremillion, at 10:30 
Fr. Daniel Jenky, at 12: I 5 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will celebrate a Veterans Day Mass for 
Peace Tonight at 5:00p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. There will be a Spanish Mass at 1 1 a.m. Sunday in the Farley Chapel, celebrated by Fr. David Burrell. 
•MOVIES 
The Student Union presents the Academy Award-winning "Ghandi," the true stort y ofthe man who defeated the British Empire and freed a nation of350 million people, at 6:30 and 10 p.m. today and Saturday in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission is S2. 
The 1954Japanese film "Seven Samurai" will be the Friday Night 
Film Series feature tonight at 7:30 in the Annen burg. 
On Monday, "Bringing Up Baby" and "Nashville" will be in the An­
nenburg at 7 and 9 p.m. respectively. Admission for all ofthe Annen­
burg films is S2. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
Alecture on "Lasers and Their Uses -Insights into New Science" will be presented by ArthurShawl ow, a nobel laureate and professor ofphysics at Stanford University, tonight at 8:30 in the Library Auditorium. 
In a lecture titled "Toward a Unified Theory of Free Speech and Constitutional Privacy," David Richard, professor oflaw at NewYork University, will present his argument that a rights-based jurisprudence is demonstrably superior to the current positivist paradigm. The lecture is today at 3:30 p.m. in the Faculy Lounge of the Library. 
As part ofthe "Fortnight ofEducation on Global Issues" sponsored by Ground Zero, Professor Michael Francis will present a lecture titled "A History ofthe Arms Race, or How That Silo Came To Be in Our Backyard" Monday night at 8 in the Library Auditorium. 


Sports Briefs 
Marvelous Marvin Hagler, letting out ali stops in the I5th round, scored a unanimous but close decision over a gallant Robert Duran last night and retained the undisputed world middleweight championship. There was no "no mas" in Duran on this night, but the Panamanian's effort fell short of making him the first fighter to win four world titles. He currently holds the World Boxing Association junior middleweight title. Judge Ove Ovesen of Denmark scored it 144-143, Judge Yusaku Yoshida ofJapan saw it 146-145, and Judge GuyJutra;; ofCanada had it 144-142, all for the 29-year-old Hagler, who apparently kept his title with his big effort in the final round. TheAP scored it 145-142 for the champion. Before 
the bout, watched by a sellout crowd of 15,200 in an outdoor arena at Caesars Palace, Hagler had said, "I think it will be a good fight. I love a good fight." He fought a good fight and he got a tough battle from Duran in return. Hagler came out storming in the 15th round, his left eye badly puffed and blood dripping from a cut over it. Hagler slammed into Duran with some body shots and then landed four or five good head shots, climaxtd by a right that stunned Duran and drove him backward. The last 1:wo minutes were a brawl, with Duran pinned much ofthe time on the ropes. The challenger threw a lot of punches in an effort to fight hi' way off, but Hagler outpunched him. 
-AP 
Men's interhall football playoffs will con­
tinue on Sunday when Dillon faces Flanner and Stanford faces Howard. Flanner earned the right to play Dillon by beating Alumni, 7-0, while Stanford defeated Sorin, 7-6, to advance. Full reports on the games and a preview ofthe championship game will appear next week. -The Obseroer 
Basketballtickt:tsare still available. A limited number of non-renewable bleacher ~cason tickets are now on sale for the 1983-84 men's campaign. They will be on sale through Nov. 16 at Gate 10 of the ACC which is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday. -The Obseroer 
Friday, November 11, 1983-page 13 
Club report 
Weightlifters can train together 
ByJOHNJOE HEARN 
Sports Writer 
Are you tired of working out by yourself! Do you want proper in­struction in weight lifting and weight training? The Notre Dame Weight Lifting Club could be just what you're looking for. The club is looking for new members of all levels who are interested in body building and weight lifting. 
The club, organized last year by Matt Kelleher, offers a chance for people interested in training to meet others in the same sport. Kelleher feels that knowing other weightlif­ters makes training easier. 
"The main purpose of our club is to provide a place where all people 
continuedjrompage 16 
sophomore Bob Thebeau leads the team with three goals and nine as­sists. Chapman is second with six goals and five assists, while Benning and Reilly are tied for third with two goals and seven assists each. 
Goaltending has also looked promising as senior AI Havercamp, sophomore Marc Guay, and fresh­man Tim Lukenda have each made one start and allowed just four total goals. 
Lukenda, who started Sunday's win over Northwestern, will be in goal in Friday's contest. And Haver-who train on campus can get to meet one another" he says. "It is a very supportive organization which helps unify the weightlifting com­munity." 
Throughout the year the club holds seminars on various topics such as body building, power lifting, and nutrition. The latest methods are discussed with experts through­out the country. Last year, Bob and Karen Gajda, two professionals in exercise kinesiology, gave a training seminar. Bob Gajda was a two-time Mr. America and one-time Mr. Uni­verse who currently works at The Rehabilitation Institute in Chicago. Karen has twice won the women's power-lifting championships. Despite these credentials, .tf:te tur­
camp, the winner against ISU, will be in the nets on Saturday. 
Smith likes what he sees in his team so far in this young season, and hopes that the enthusiasm will carry over to the fans as well. 
"We would like to be able to gen\:rate some excitement," he says. "As the competition picks up, things could be very exciting. Hopefully the students will see this and come out to the games." 
Face-offboth nights is at 7:30p.m. in the ACC. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are admitted free with their ID cards. 
• 
nout was low because of the lack of 
publicity about the club's activities. 
The club also sponsors some NVA tournaments in power lifting and is beginning to have more campus­wide events such as a bench-press contest scheduled for the first week in December. 
This Sunday, the club is sponsor­ing its first seminar of the year. Bill Bushly, runner-up in the Mr. U.S.A. contest, will be conducting a semi­nar on body building and giving a posing exhibition. The seminar will be held on the third floor of the Rockne Memorial at noon. It will cost two dollars to attend and everyone is invited. People in­terested in joining the weightlifting club are invited to do so after the seminar. 
• • Hockey 
TONIGHT vs. Illinois 7:30p.m. 
TOMORROW 
vs. Illinois 
7:30p.m. 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. AU classifieds must be prepaid, either in per­son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per





Classifieds 
day. 

NOTICES IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAYI CALL(312)742-1142, EXT. 7316. PRO-TYPE. 12 yrs. experience. Spec1ahzing 1n dissertations. manuscnpts. theses. and student papers. Call277·58331or rates.  LOST: One Fuschta Whammy! Toy Pi:;tol. Great sentimental value. If found. pluase call Patnck at 1754 anytime. Lest: grey scarf with buttons in section 31 at the Pitt game. Please help me lind it bEfore it turns really cold. 284-4391 HELP!! I LOST A GOLD MEDALLION IN TliE ACC ON MON. NOV. SIT HAS THE INITIALS M LA ENGRAVED ON THE B1\CK AND SAYS FLORIDA CHAM­PIONS AROUND THE YELLOW STONE. THE HIGH SCHOOL NAME ENGRAVED 01~ IT IS CARDINAL NEWMAN. PLEASE HELP ME OUT BY CALLING MARILU AT 6i 22 PLEASE. IT HAS A LOT OF SEN­ TWO PEOPLE BUNGALOW PRIVATE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 288­0955/277-3604. WANTED ) 3 RIDES NEEDED TO PmSURGH FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. LEAVING THE 22ND OR 23RD. WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES,ETC. CALL VIC AT 239-7471 OR 283-3406. PLEASE LEAVE MESSAGE.  NEED AF GA'S KEITH 3659 NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S DAVE 283-1650 NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S! DAVE 8238. Need 3 or 4 GAs tor Air Force. Call Steve at 232-0550. AWK--NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL TED AT 288-0137. FOR SALE-2 AIR FORCE STUDENT TIXS-BEST OFFER-CALL 284-4389  PAT. PAT. PAT. PAT (SMOKEY) NOV. 12 HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! TO THE BEST ROOMATE IVE EVER HAD IN MORRIS­SEY! HAPPY21 ST WOODIE BEAUX ARTS BALL BLACK & WHITE ALL NIGHT NOV. 11 10:00-till the last person stops dancin BEAUX ARTS BALL  TO THE BOY WITHTHE6-WAY FEET HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY PATRICK! NOVEMBER 13, 1983 YOU ARE UGLY AND YOUR MOTHER DRESSES YOU FUNNY" HERE'S WAX IN YOUR EYE. MR. LEONARDS FURS-NO PARKING SWINGING at LEEPER, DINGLEBER­RY! BANGI BANG! HOTELS ON BALTIC AVE.. NEEP. NEEP. HUDDLE SPAM B-52'S WHAMMY!! FROM FRIENDS OF DICK AND JALAPENO. ATIENTION. ALL MEMBERS OF THE  
EXPERIENCED TYPIST Mrs. Bedford 288-2107 Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m .. Mon. thru Fri. $ $ Part ltme employment available for energetic student. Good sales ex­perience Set own hours. Reputable. expanding company. For interview call Bob at 259-3957  TI\.1ENTAL VALUE. THANKYOU. CALL 6i'22! LOST! A BLUE BACKPACK LAST WEEK SOME TIME. IN IT WAS A GREEN FOL­DI:R AND NOTEBOOK. MY NAME IS ON TliE OUTSIDE POCKET:ROBERT B NEWHOUSE I REALLY NEED THESE B1\CK. REWARD PLEASE CALL BOB A" 3641 OR RETURN TO 405 MORRIS­SEY. THANKS  NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -CAN LEAVE ANYTIME -CALL PAUL McGINN AT 239·53130R 277-4851. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO BUF­FALO FOR THANKSGIVING­PLEASE CALL PAT AT 6423 wanted: riders to Miami OH. weekend of  Desperately need 4-6 Air Force GA's for New Jersey relatives!!! Call Cindy (5195) atSMC Need 2 Air Force GA's. Parents REALLY want to see a game! Charlene 2909. NEED :i! OR 4 AIR FORCE GAs CALL JOHN NO. 1820  WHATS THE BEST.LONGEST.AVANTE GARDE PARTY ON CAMPUS? BEAUX ARTS BALL-BE PART OF A TRADITION ............................................................ GSU FOOTBALL FUN! Sat. Nov 12. 1:00 pm. SR. BAR! . Christopher (C.T.) A big HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY!! Thank God you're not a teenager anymore! Yours Truly E.T  ND GAMING CLUB. THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY MEETING TONIGHT AT 7:00-ROOM 204 O'SHAG. BE THERE I! THE SYMPOSIUM ON NUCLEAR WAR FEATURING TED HESBURGH, JAMES STERBA, PAUL KENNEY, DR.CHARLOTTE LEVINE, AND THE FILM "IF YOU LOVE THIS PLANET' BY DR. HELEN CALDICOTT. LIBRARY AUD., SUNDAY (13TH), 7:00. sponsored by the pre professional  
11/11 call Marl< at 234-8246  society and ground zero.  
STUDENT TRAVEL REP. NEEDED to  LOST-SMC GOLD CLASS RING with  AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE.272-6306  PITISBURGH CLUB THANKSGIVING  
promote our annual Spring Break trips to Flonda. FREE TRIP TO FLORIDA plus commt5Slon. Please call or wr~e. COAS­ LFIB '85 tnscrip1ton. If you know ANY­THING. PLEASE I! call284-5176  HELP WANTED­BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER. CALL 277-4519 OR 288-3320.  2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE. Best Of­fer. Call Marty. 8639.  BUS SIGNUPS: SUNDAY. NOVEMBER 13. ?:Q0-8:00 PM LaFORTUNE UTILE THEATRE FIRST COME. FIRST  1-WEST KEENAN "No Parking on the Dance Floor" DO IT UP!II BAJA  
TAL TOURS. INC.. P.O. BOX 68. OAK FOREST.IL 60452 (312) 535-3212. TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30  FOUND OUTSIDE MADELEVA HALL­gc•ld pendant wrth inrtials MWM and Hap­Pl' 21 ston the back-call to claim 264-4389  ········ ........ ····•··· RIDERS NEEDED ONE-WAY TO BOs­TON: Leavtng 11/18. Call Gtb-1682-after 11 p.m.  PERSONALS  SERVED FIDDLER IS COMING I  MA and PAIII Take care of Becky N. this weekend! Help! Need a ride to Cinninati forT·break.  
Will share expenses. Please call Kristin  
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -PLEASE CALL PAUL McGINN AT 277-4851 OR 239­5313. GSU FOOTBALL PARTY! Food & Fun & NO Football. 1:00pm Sat. Nov 12. At SR. BAf=!! (FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY).  HELPI CAN'T SEE! L•JST-PAIR OF GLASSES. "GEMI'~I" I~ BLACK CASE (EYE CARE DOC­TI)RS, WICKLIFFE, OHIO). BROWN FI~AMcS, CLEAR PLASTIC LENSES. LI)ST 10/ I 19 POSIBLY IN ENGINEER­I~ G AUDITORIUM. CALL JOHN 3254.  Need ride 1o MD./D.C. area. can leave ~on.. 11/21. Andy at 1020 FOR SALE  AI. A Happy 19th Birthday (on Sunday) to the best sister who could ever have come to ND. I could not laugh if I didn't see you. Theron  A TRADITION: FIDDLER ON THE ROOF! COME SEE A TRADITION, A DREAM, AND A WEDDING. KEEP WATCHING FOR DETAILS' FIDDLER ON THE ROOF  7570. Gutterball Man from Minn. You owe me a game·· sometime HeJen BE ITALIAN BE ITALIAN BE ITALIAN Find out how Monday Nov. 14, ?p.m. La Fortune Little Theatre  
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND AREA NOV. 18. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL 7911 ASK FOR JEANETIE.  FI)UND: HAND KNIT SWEATER ON PUH NEAR MUSIC BLDG. ON TUES. DAY, 11/1. CALL277-3443.  ...................................... House for sale one mile north of campus. Good neighborhood,good tax she~er for parents. 3 Bed-1/2 acre. Call days 256­ GenNe Reader: Do you eagerly awart your Wednesday luncheon so that you may peruse the Showcase section of your Observer? II so. gentle reader. then you  TICKETS ON SALE SOON WATCH FOR DETAILS OR LOOK FOR ADVERTISEMENT  JIM CALLAGHAN and tellow wimps ot Sorin Hall. remember: he who laughs last usually laughs ALONE' esp. Fri. night  
LOST/FOUND  If you los! a watch in front of Haggar Cen­te·. I have~ Call Usa x5250 lo:;t: last week. gray pierre cardin jacket in ei1 her cushing or bus. ad. building. please rerum, i am freezing. bad. reward. call 3!49  5611 or nights 233-3997. FOR SALE . A DELCO CAR STEREO CALL 283-8046 BEST OFFER LIKE NEW DP 3900 DELUXE CHROME MULTI-PURPOSE LEG LIFT INCLINE BENCH WITH COMPLETE BARBELL  are probably a Miss Manners fan. The Showcase section wishes to hear from its readers. Is Judith Martin aPROPER addi­tion 1o this fine publication? Do you like her columns or readers· leHers better? R.S.V.P. to the Showcase Editor. The Ob­server. P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Please wrffeneatly.  ............................... Listen to WSND Sunday Nrte for RADIO WARS between Fisher basement & Lyons We're RUDE-tripping to Penn State!!! Wanna Go?? Call1779  LOGAN VOLUNTEERS DANCE TONIGHT 7:30-10:00 LOGAN CENTER BE THERE SLOW DEATH NEEDS HELP FROM OUTSIDE-WRITERS. ARTISTS. BASI­CALLY FUNNY PEOPLE. C'MON.  
AND  DUMBELL  SET  -$75.  CALL  WE'RE  SERIOUS  ABOUT  THIS!  
LOSTNAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET.TO THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND  LOST: HELP! I LOST MY UMBRELLA IT WAS A BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE WITH  MARILYN 6634. 1972 PONTIAC CATALINA. 4 DR. NEW  Happy Birthday. Roban Bottet. wherever you are.  Happy B day Andy, Sid. Ken aka Abominable Snowman Fun guys! Don't  PLEASE? CALL 8557. 1454 OR 1601 IF AT ALLINTERESTED.  
LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT 8810.  INITIALS RPM ON THE HANDLE. I LOST IT IN ROOM 127 NSH. IF YOU HAVE AI~Y INFORMATION PLEASE CALL R CH 8731. THANX.  TIRES -GOOD CONDITION. GOOD PAINT. WINTERIZED. PLEASE CALL AFTER 6 P.M. 287-9343.  Faust/Patemo Productions presents THE KOHOUTEK BOWL Notre Dame  go to Denny's with people who order X Ira syrup. Would that be Complete Mad­ness? Shall I apologize or do ya wanna hit me? Face. Love, the Beatnik.  HAPPY BIRHDAY MURRY ROTIEN­HOSER IN THE IMMORTAL WORDS OF YOURSELF I'M SO SURE YOU STAIN" HAPPY BIRTHDAY HOSEHEAD LOVE  
LOST GOLD TIMEX WATCH. Lost about  vs.  VA BIG LAR THE SKIPPER  
1 month agoPLEASE call3751. HELPI!I!LOST. I am Lost along with my glasses!!! They are rimless wirelrames­stlver. glass is slightly tinted. Please call  [_F_O_RR_EN_T___.I  ]"---·~_j_Tc_KE_Ts___,.l  Penn State November 12. 1983 State College. PA Proceeds tv the Honesty in Spotts Com­mittee.  BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER CALL 277-4519 OR 288-3320 Bob Madden is a man-god!  KAREN ABOOD KATHY LEROUX Life is a jelly bean moo  
Doug at 4625. Reward promtsedl! n·s been almost two months and rm g01ng blind!  ........:.q:::t.~' ~...rr ·''' FJRNISHED HOUSE. CLOSE TO N.D. NEED. TWO AIR FORCE GA'S--WILL GOOD AREA 277-3604 PAY $$$ BECAUSE ITS NOT MY  Needed  Accordian Player for FIDDLER  TRUDEE-you are. like. a goddess. (even at 5:00AM) HAPPY BIRTHDAYIll  The poets and the pipers Have got their motives; You've got yours, no doubt.  
LOST Necklace. Pink pearls (lake). Lost  GARAGE 2 BLOCKS FROM N.D. 277­ MONEY KEN 1601  ON THE ROOF. Contact Mary Stevens at 239-7757.  DAD. IT APPEARS THAT THE PRICE OF PIZZA INCREASES WEEKLY HERE  And so the game continues -That's what ff's all about.  
in Lew1s. Keenan. or some where ir, be­ 3504  WANTEDIIII-Six Penn State GA's. Call  AT N.D.. PERHAPS IT IS LESS EX­ 
tween on Sunday. Please call Mary Bush­ ...,.t..  Tom  Hollerbach  collect  at  ( 312)  565­ TRUDEE,  HAPPY  18TH  BIRTHDAY  PENSIVE AT ST MARITZ t YOUR SON  -Triumph  
man at 1992  APT UTILITIES PAID 288-0955.  5959.  LOVE, DOROTHY, FRANK & BOB  W.D.B  

Friday, November 11, 1983 -page 14

The Observer 
... Playoffs 
continuedfrom page 16 
tion. Zcrr is looking h>r strong play from quarterback Jennifer Yule: and the team's top scorer, Carla Cortes. 
This will he the third year P.E. has participated in the playoffs and Zcrr is pleased with the outcome of this season. "Ourgoal is to win the cham­pionship and I think it will go to whoever plays steady, solid football and has the best game." 
Lt·wis team captain Janeen Olds, whose team barely missed the playoffs, predicts P.E. to win the championship. "They will be a hard team to defeat. They have a solid of­fense and defense and we really want to see them win." 
P. W. athletic commissioner Mary Jane Lorton anticipates some hard hitting and a close finish to the game against their sister dorm. "P.E. is a good squad because they've only lost one game. hut heating Lewis has built our confidence," she explains. 
P.W. finished 4-3 in the regular season and overcame many ohstadt·s this year. Early in the season, the team folded because ofa lack of intt·rcst in the team. After a successful rtTruiting effort. the team was abk to continue competition in tht· lt-agut·. 
A few weeks later. team ton­tidence wa~ shaken when athletic commissioner Cathy Schafer was injured in practice. "No one ex­pected us to get this far. but now everyone seems to think we'll go all the way," says Lorton. 
For Sunday's game, P.W. will mix up their oll(:nsivc plays more fre­quently and prt·pare thl'ir defensive line li>r a tough game. Lorton looks ti>r exceptional play from the team's leading scorer Cindy Rauckhorst. "We t·xpt·t·t a lot from her and we've come to rdy on her." says Lorton. 
B.P. will ht· looking for revenge when it steps onto the field to face Walsh. Earlit'r in the season, B.P. lost a match to what it considered an in­ferior Walsh team. "We want to beat them badly and prove who's the toughest and hopefully it's us," ex­plains ll.P. team captain Lisa Ehrhardt. 
Although the two teams finished with identical c;.2 seao;on records, Ehrhardt says the teams arc not t•vt·nly matched. Ehrhardt expects to heat Walsh because "we're the better team." 
Ehrhardt plans to deliver a balanced scoring attack on Sunday and "to keep Walsh offbalance." She also expects the pn:scnsc of vocal 
B.P. fans to influence the game. 
If both P.E. and B.P. advance to the Nov. 20 championship round, Ehrhardt prt·dicts her squad will have a good t:hance to claim the championship since B.P. is the only team to defeat P.E. this year. "I think we've got a good shot at taking it all," she predicts. 
Walsh coach Brian Steeber does not plan to change any game strategy for the B.P. game, hut he is wairy ofSunday's contest. "It will be tough against B.P. because they're a good team and it will be tough to heat them twice in a row." 
Walsh team captain Mary Langer expects a tough game against B.P., and plans to deliver a good consis· tent game on Sunday. "Everyone is really psyched for the game and if we play well, we could win and we could go to the championships." 
Sunday's game is important to the Walsh squad because it is the the on­ly team to represent the South Quad in the playoff.-;. 
"We wanr to show everyone the South Quad can play sports and not kt everyone run Pver us," sht· ex­plains. "We went into a lot of the games with a negative attitude be­cause no one expected us to he good." 
Langn thi'lks her tt·am can defeat 
B.P. if the defense can stop th<.: B.P. ofti:nsive drives and her ofti:nse is ahlt-to score. She also expects Walsh fans to hdp the team's moralt'. "Fans will ddlnitdy afft·ct the outcome of the game hccausc it adds incentive to the players." 
\ .~ " . . . .. ' ' ,.,........ 

r••••••••••••••Discount Coupon•••••••••••••••• 
e:,~~~ '},f:jolo  MATERNOWSKIMARKET 104 Dixie Way No Roseland US33-31 ~0% 1st Stoplight No of StMary's Entrance Open Daily 10-6 Fruit-Vegetables-Produce  ~-1~ ~  
Daily Specials -Low Prices Everyday  
Apples-Cider-Oranges-Grapefruit-Bananas Pineapple-Kiwi-Grapes-Cranberries-Yams  

Dried Fruit-Munchies Snax -Honey-Maple Syrup Nuts-Dates-Figs-Pop Corn •••••••••••••••Expires 11/30/83···-·••••••••••• 


Attention Volunteers 

ND · SMC Council for the Retarded Dance 
at Logan Center Friday Nov. 11 7:30-10:00 
1Cl1963 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, WI 






We~~kend 
Friday, November 11, 1983-page 15 

Bloom County 
I [71(7 IT. I W€NT 0JT ANI7 I3IXKill 
Pli. 1J1(')f£ caeBRilY euwrY 
800K~. UN~ f)IANS: VICTOJIJA 
PRINGIFI1V5. CHRISTI£ 
BRINKL£Y'S, ANl7 I !l1171HE:: f-Xe:R­CI!£5. AN!7 I CAKW ON '!He: MAKWP. AN!7 ro YOO KNlM' 


Fate 

The Dail)r Crossword 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 11/11/83 All Rights Reserved 
AOONCH Cf ~OCRE?. ~5!£5 (i)f 5(»\€. Of MY ffCN£Y ANI7 I... l'.tU.-, I...JUST t..OOKW.. 
flit: 51\Mt:. 
\ 


YOU KNOw WHAT? A.LL I 
[)) If STUDY, WKtT£ f'llPE~ 
STAND IN LON& LUNCH I.INES, NID rHINJ( !/BOUT (j()IN& 

TfftS PLACE IS STIIRrtN4 1!J f:;Er 1lJ 11£ 
IT 6ETS WORSr. \ I 
IS IT 5riLL A' PIA(£ IJHf/1[ CH~STtAN \IUMU 0~ SHMIHG ANt> ~VING HAYf 
IIOT IJEfN fCUI'stCI BY llfO,SE WIIO eAA£ MOllE fM A FAST POIIAI! AND A IUCH UIPOWI'\!HT THAN A P~tiONAL­


Berke Breathed 

Photius 

IT SNOWS . .. ALf)f. 
Dave & Dave 

62 Designate 29 Gathering 63 Affirmative of witches 64 Liable 30 Burmese 65 Hat for a nature 
cowboy spirit 31 Overwhelm 
DOWN 32 Tried for 1 Gog and -office 2 Worship 34 Kind of 3 Of ebb and bean 
flow 35 Wapiti 4 Military 36 1051 address 37 Thesaurus 5 Remove a word: abbr. fedora 39 Compares 6 Bone: comb. texts 
form 41 French 7 Warmed over soldier 8, Compensate 43 Fly larva 
for 44 Type of 9 NFL player lure 10 Baronet's 45 Solo title 46 Civil dis­11 Lower turbances 
12 Rose 47 NewZealand 
extract parrot 13 Trials 49 Taunts 16 Heredity 50 Word of 
factor greeting 18 English 51 Buddy the composer actor 
24 Insect claw-54 Fender , bearing mishap segments 55 Grafted, in 
26 Goddess of heraldry 
discord 58 A Gershwin 27 Dove houses 59 Tuck's 28 European partner 
kingdom 60 Relax 
"Sour Mash Night" Selected Sour Drinks on Speci~l aU night 
Campus · 

Friday, Nov. 11 
•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Toward a Unified Theory of Free Speech and Constitutional Privacy," Pro( David A.). Richards, Ubrary Faculty Lounge 

•4:20 
p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Spectroscopy in a New Light," Prof. Arthur L Schawlow, II8 NSH 

•5-p.m. 
-Mass, Veterans Day Mass for Peace, Father Theodore Hesburgh, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Network for Peace 

•6:30 
and IO p.m. -FUm, "Gandhi," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, S2 

•7 
p.m. -Dance Open Rehearsal, Holy Cross Party Room, ND, Sponsored by Abiogenesis Dance Collective 

•7 
p.m. -Gaming Club Meeting, 204 O'Shaughnessy 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night FUm Series, "Seven Sam uri," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, ND Men vs. Illinois, ACC 

•8 
p.m.-SMC Concert, Little Theatre, Free 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Lasers and Their Uses," Pro( Arthur L. Schawlow, Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Chess Tourney Sign-ups, 1st Annual University Chess Tournament, 204 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by ND Gaming Club, SI for non-members 

•IO 
p.m. -BeauxArts Costume Ball, "Bia!=k and White The Kinetics! All Night," Architecture Build­ing Lobby, Sponsored Qy AIA/SC, $4 ' 


Saturday, Nov.12 
•I 
p.m. -Football, NO at Penn State, 

•I 
p.m. -ND vs Penn State Football Party, Wide Screen Football and Party, Senior Bar Party Room, Sponsored by Graduate Student Union. SI 

•2 
p.m. -Cello Masterclass, Fritz Magg, Annen­berg Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -ND Gaming Club Meeting, 204 O'Shaughnessy 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, NO Men vs. Illinois, ACC Sunday, Nov. 13 

•II 
a.m. -Spanish Mass, Father David Burrell, Farley Chapel 

•I 
p.m. -Opening Art Exhibition, The Esmark Collection of Currier and Ives, O'Shaughnessy Galleries 

• 
2 p.m. -Masswith Emmaus, Moreau Seminary 

•4 
p.m. -Fall Concert, Music Department, Fritz Magg, Annen berg Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Nuclear War Symposium, Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, Intrasquad Charity Game,ACC 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Concert, Fall Choral Concert, Little Theatre 


Far Side 
"Look out, everyone! ... We're being attacked by a giant sq ... Well, no ... I'd say medium squid!" 

IlED t6MHITMfNT TO 
ACROSS 1 Corrlda star 8 Goddessof plenty 11 Belfry 
resident 14 Fatty 15 Naval 
vessel 17 Pan 19 " ... man­
mouse?" 20 Examines 
by touch 21 Shipshape 22 Colloid 23 Very old 25 Blunders 26 Rapturous 30 Not so wide 33 Automatons 38 Expected 39 Politely 40 Madetaut 41 Favorite of 
Catherine 
of Russia 42 Pasta stuff 44 Starless 48 Brad 49 Common 
article 52 Kazanthe director 53 Open space in a forest 56 Arachnid 
creation 57 Pans 61 Toronto's 
province 
CI!AISTS 

Thursday's Solution 


l 
Hours: 12:80-5:80 Stay on campus and save$$$ by letting us r Dial M-U-11-s (686~') take care of your flower needs ~ 
~ V 1F==5 '~~~o~ G ::::f~ --'~a-q: M '~ 
Sports 
Friday, November 11, 1983 -page 16 

Basketball team showcases talent in annual intrasquad scrimmage 
By WILL HARE 
Sports Writer 
For the fans ofNotre Dame basket· ball, it will be a chance to look at the dress rehearsal of their young per­formers. 
That will happen Sunday night when Irish basketball coach Digger Phelps will display his squad in the annual Notre Dame Charity Basket­ball lntrasquad Game. Tipoff at the ACC is sc.·t at 7 p.m., following the women's game. 
All proceed-; for the game will benefit Logan Center and the Neigh· borhood Study Help Program. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student.-; may purchao;c tickets now for S1.00 at 
Gate 10 of the ACC or at the gate before the game. 
While the contest is between Irish teammates, it marks the first time Notre Dame coaches will view the team under game conditions. 
The Irish return an inexperienced but talented team including five sophomores and three freshmen. 
Many eyes will be on the three newcomers freshmen Scott Hicks, Donald Royal, and john Bowen. 
Hicks, a much-heralded back­court man from Indianapolis, has been hobbled by an injury which has limited his scrimmage time in practice. He is expected to pick up some ofthe shootingslack lost in the 
DiStanislao's team readies for scrimmage 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
It is about time for Mary DiStanis­lao and her Notre Dame women's bao;ketball team to finally put Notre Dame among the top women's bao;­ketball teams in the country. For two years, the team hao; been getting closer and closer to doing this. Now, as the Irish enter the 1983-84 season which will begin with the annual in­lrasquad scrimmage this Sunday, they will be shooting for a place in the NCAA Tournament. 
Coming off an impressive 20-7 seao;c_m la'it year, which saw Notre Dame win its last six in a row, the Irish will once again have many un­dercla'iSmen playing key roles. 
"We still have a young team," says DiStanislao who is entering her fourth year as Irish coach. "I don't when I'll stop saying that, but we are going to have a lot of young players 
Basketball scrimmages 
Women 
Sunday 6 p.m. 
Men 
Sunday ?p.m. 

who will have a big impact on the offense. llspecially, at point guard, with Vonnie (Thompson)." 
Thompson, one ofthe three fresh­man recruits this year, will be looked at seriously ao; the replace· ment for the graduated Debbi Hensley. The point guard slot will be a major concern because of its lack ofoffense la'it year and the fact that it does not have the depth that the other positions do. The scrimmage will provide the coaches with an op· portunity to see how well Thompson ha'i adjusted to the col­lege game. 
Mary Di and her assistants, Mary Murphy andJill Jeffries, will also usc the scrimmage to see what combina­tions work best together. DiStanis­lao's philosophy is to put the best combination on the floor at once, with means there Is a lot ofsubstitu­tion depending on the game situa­tion. The preseao;c_m will allow them 
. . to gel an idea of what combinations 
might work best. 
"We'll be working on different 
combinations," says DiStanislao. 
"With the type ofoffense we use, we 
need to find the people who work 
best together." 
Among those competing with Thompson at the two guard spots are sophomores Denise Basford, Lynn Ebben, and lisa Brown, senior co-captain Theresa Mullins, junior Laura Dougherty, and walk-ons Mary Borkowski and Dava Newman. Dougherty will most likely be the starter at the shooting guard spot. 
She is one of the most experienced players on the team and will probab­ly assume some leadership respon­sibillry. 
The competition for the three inside spots will be tough, as almost every player returns from last year's squad. The lone exception is Shari Matvey, who graduated as the leading scorer and rebounder in Irish history. 
However, sophomore Trena Keys should more than make up for Mat­vey's absence.. Keys played for the Midwest team in the National Sports Festival and has improved a great deal since last year. Neverthelqs, she will have a lot ofcompetition for one ofthe forward positions. juniors Ruth Kaiser and Carrie Bates, Ebben, senior jenny Klauke, and freshmen Lavetta Willis and Mickey Skieresz. 
junior co-captain Mary Beth Schueth most likely will see most of the action at center. Her main com­petition will be Bates. 
What combination DiStanislao decides works best together will probably be seeing plenty of action as the season opens on November 22 when Marquette visits the ACC. 
The scrimmage starts at 6 p.m. Ticket.-; for students will be S I for both the women's and men's games. For more details, see Will Hare's preview ofthe men's scrimmage. 
graduation of All-American guard john Paxson. 
The temporary loss of Hicks forces Phelps to work swingman Tom Sluby, the Irish captain, at a big guard position through most of practice. Sluby has been competing with sophomore joseph Price at the off-guard spot, a position which is under a microscope because of the loss ofPaxson's offense. 
Royal and Bowen, two forwards, are competing where the Irish are deepest. 
Besides Sluby, the Irish also return sophomore Jim Dolan, junior Barry Spencer, and senior Cecil Rucker as forwards. Sophomores Tim Kempton and Ken Barlow also return to anchor the frontline. 
There is also stiffcompetition be­tween pointguards Dan Duffandjoe Buchanan. 
"We'll probably look at a lot of possible combinations," Phelps says. "We can pair Hicks, Royal, Buc­hanan, and Barlow and go with a quick lineup. 
"We also can utilize Kempton, Dolan, and Bowen when we want to pound the boards. We're still ex­perimenting to see what works best in certain situations." 
Marathon Oil will sponsor the game and tickets will also be available at all local Marathon dealers. 
Time is running low for Phelps before his work is unveiled. The Irish are gearing up for an exhibition contest against the Yugoslavian Na­tional team on Wednesday night. 
ByED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
After a successful opening 
weekend which saw the Notre 
Dame hockey team emerge with a 
perfect 3-0 record, the Irish return 
to action tonight and tomorrow as 
they play host to the Fighting lllini of 
the University ofIJiinois. 
In last weekend's action, the Irish totally dominated play as neither Il­linois State nor Northwestern proved to be any match for the highly-talented Fighting Irish squad. On the weekend, the team greatly outscored its weaker opposition by a 37-4 margin. 
Notre Dame hammered ISU I0-I on Friday in the season opener at the ACC, then travelled to Northwes­tern where they destroyed their hosts I2-2. The Wildcats came to Notre Dame on Sunday, and were sent home suffering from a I 5-l drubbing. 
Looking to Illinois, Irish coach Lefty Smith is not sure what to ex­pect, because, when playing on a 

Flag football playoffs set for this weekend 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
They're here -the women's in­terhall playotJS. These are the three games every women's interhall team in the league wants to play. 
The first round ofaction wil begin at 6:30 Sunday night on Cartier Field with top-ranked Pasquerilla East taking on Pasquerilla West. That game will be followed immediately by a contest between Breen-Phillips and Walsh. 
Although 6-I P.E. is favored to win Sunday's game, team captain Kim Zerr is cautious about the outcome of the playoffii. "It's a whole new season. P.W. is quick and we'll have to be on our toes," she expl..tns. 
Zerr describes Sunday's match as "the battle of the Pasquerillas," and anticipates a tough game between the sister dorms. Zerr will not be making any major strategy changes for the game and will "drill the team in the basics." 
Despite the loss of injured tight­end jackie Barry from the starting lineup, Zerr expects the backup players to adequately cover the posi­
see PLAYOFFS, page 14 


Sophomore forward Tim Kempton will not be playing against another team on Sunday, but rather be will be playing his teammates in the annual intrasquad scrimmage. Mary Dtstanis­lao's women's team will also scrimmage. The women will start at 6 and the men willfollow. 
Needing tougher competition 
Hockey team waits for Dlinois 
club level, statistics are not 
thoroughly kept and, when they are, 
they're often not sent to the other 
schools as is common practice on a 
varsiry level 
Smith has learned through various 
sources, though, that Illinois hao; 
beaten both JSU and Northwestern 
as well as Marquette. He, therefore, 
is looking forward to a more com­
petitive series. 
"Based on what we've heard, Il­linois should be better competition," he says. "We certainly hope so, because last weekend didn't give us much of a chance to evaluate ourselves." 
The evaluations Smith did make concerned basic fundamentals such as puck control and break outs. Im­provement in such areas are necesarry and can help to make the team's play more consistent. "Our puck handling was a little shoddy in the neutral zone and in the offensive zone," he said. "Our forwards also seemed a bit anxious to get up the ice, so several times it left our defen­semen with no one to pass the puck to coming out ofour end." 
Senior co-captain joe Bowie sees such weaknesses simply as a part ofa team that has yet to reach its peak. "We haven't played up to the caliber we're capable of," he said. "The op­position has a lot to do with it, though. As we start playing better teams, it will force us to play the consistent kind ofhockey that we're capable of" 
To try to add more consistency to the ranks, Smith ha'i done some line­juggling. On the first line, Smith has moved junior co-captain Brent Chapman from left wing to center and junior Steve Ely will move from defense to play the left wing spot. Sophomore Mark Benning will return from center to defenseman, the position he played last year when he won the team's Rookie of the Year award. 
Benning thinks the change wa'i a good one and is looking forward to being back at defense. ''I'm really happy about it," he says. "I felt lost at center. I've played defense all my life, and it's just home for me." 
Ely too is looking forward to the challenge of his new position and to playing with his new linemates. ''I'm pretty excited about the new move," he says. "I've got a couple.of good players in Chaps and Tim (Reilly) to play with. My job will be to flush the puck out of the comer and set up Chaps and Reils, the es­tablished goal scorers." 
In other changes, sophomore jeff Badalich will miss this weekend's games due to tom cartilage in his chest. Sophomore Gary Becker, then, will probably move up to cen­ter the third line. Freshman Rick Kennedy will suit up and take Be­cker's place on the fourth line. 
Scoring has yet to be a problem for the Irish, and, after three games, 
see HOCKEY, page 13 

No. 1 fan predicts 'Victory 
Ifyou recall, about six weeks ago after a costly loss, Keith Penrod, Notre Dame's No. I fan, guaranteed an Irish victory over Colorado. After the message, Notre Dame won five in a row. Well, after another costly loss, Keith is guaranteeing another Irish win over Penn State. Can lightning strike twice? Keith, who is sorry he will not be able to witness the game in person, thinks so. "The players will tum the Lions into kitty cats." 




