• 
• • • escdedication -page 5 


-
Budget baffles 
Tax increase proposal fails 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A bitterly promise might be possible that But Sen. William Armstrong, R­divided Senate Budget Committee would provide a tax increase ofless Colo., said Republicans were on the deadlocked yesterday over a pos­than SI 0 billion, with higher boosts verge of doing "precisely the op­
posite" of what they promised
sible tax increase for I984 after a in the following years. The deadlock on taxes came after during the I980 election campaign
Democratic-Jed move to dismantle that swept Reagan into office and
much of President Reagn's tax the panel had .completed its 
program failed on a tie vote. tentative spending decisions on a restored GOP rule to the Senate. The Il-l I tie came when Sen. I984 budget, providing $1' I. 3 bil­"We're raising taxes, raising spend­ing and giving the largest deficits" in 
Mark Andrews, R-N.D., joined all 10 lion more for non-defense programs 
Democrats in calling for a $30 bil­than Reagan wanted and 53.3 billion history, he said. lion tax hike, the amount that would less for defense. be raised if this year's I 0 percent Overall, the plan called for spend­The plan by Chiles, supported by personal income tax cut were ing ofabout lii85I billion. The deficit Andrews and all I 0 Democrats, repealed. was estimated at SI92 billion, al­called for a tax hike of 530.2 billion 
"I think we're going to have to in­though the final figure depended on in I984 and increases totaling nearly crease taxes if we're going to be the panel's final decision on a pos­lii267 billion over five years. Similar 
honest with ourselves," he said. The sible tax increase. to the proposal in the budget ap­bid failed when the committee's 11 In contrast to the bipartisan spirit proved by the Democratic­other Republicans voted no. that prevailed earlier in the week on controlled House, it is based on the 
In addition to rejecting the $30 many spending proposals, the tax assumption that Congress will billion proposal, the committee issue provoked sharp debate. repeal both this year's 10 percent rejected proposals for a smaller Andrews said higher taxes were tax cut and indexing -a provision I984 tax increase, a larger one and essential to reduce deficits and that will lower tax rates in the future no increase at all. 
lower interest rates. to account for inflation. The result was a deadlock that posed at least a temporary threat to the panel's attempt to fashion an overall tax and spending plan that 
Latin AIIlerican group 
can reach the Senate floor by next week. "I've done everything I could to 
being formed 
get a bipartisan budget," a frustrated Sen. Pete V. Domenici, the chairman, By MIKE WILKINS The Student Orgaization for Latin said before the vote. Senior StaffReporter America (SOLA) is being formed by 
He arranged a private meeting im­Fr. Claude Pomerleau with a grant mediately afterward with Sen. Law­An organization is being formed from the Kellogg Institute of Inter­ton Chiles of Florida, the on campus to provide information national Studies. The Kellogg In­committee's senior Democrat, to about Latin America to t he Notre stitute promotes academic studies 
discuss a possible tax compromise. Dame community ant to increase with a special interest in Latin Committee members and aides, student and faculty awareness about America. speaking on condition they not be social and political aspects of the The organization will be a serious identified by name, said a com-region. study of Latin America and not a Latin American club, according to Ed Tenreiro, one ofthe organizers of the group. "We feel that it is impor­tant for us to generate interaction between our group and the
Mystery illness in Palestine baffles experts 
campus," Tenriero noted. "We will be trying to bring in as 
ARRABA, Occupied West Bank the hospital. Modan believes the One doctor who said he believes a Modan says a Red Cross inves­much information as we can so (AP) -The mysterious epidemic outbreak was caused by the rumors poison was at work said he also tigator agreed with his conclusion people can make their own personal struck this remote West Bank village ofpoison gas. agrees that psychological factors that a "mass phenomenon" was at decisions about anything that is at 8:05 a.m. on March 21. Before it On March 27, Palestinians stoned contribute to· the symptoms. "But the root of the epidemic rather than ·going on in Latin America," added ended two weeks later, more than Israeli cars in Jenin, and sections of underground there is a triggering a poison, but the Red Cross has John Schmitt, another one of the 800 Palestinian schoolgirls had been the town were placed under curfew. factor, and that's what we are search­declined comment. group's organizers. "We will not en­hospitalized. Israeli military sources, paradoxical­ing for," he said. A spokesman for Israeli's West courage any one stand, but will en­
They were the victims, say Israeli ly, contributed to the poisoning None of the Palestinian doctors Bank administration claim the CDC courage people to take their own health authorities, of hysteria and rumor by saying that Palestinian would permit use of their names, doctors privately agreed with Israeli stand on an issue by promoting in­"provocateurs," charges Pales­militants might be spreading saying they feared they would be findings that there was no poison terest and sensitivity in latin tinians strongly deny. They say the poisons to place Israel in a bad light. ftred from government-supported but would not say so in public "for America." Israelis were somehow poisoning The total of victims climbed to hospitals if they dispute the Israeli fear their opinion would be their children. 320, but no one was reported position. regarded as too pro-Israeli." See SOLA, page 6 
Investigators from the Interna­seriously ill. tional Committee of the Red Cross, The next day, Modan announced FRIDAY-~~iil§llil!filit@.!""if. the U.S. Centers for Disease Control that army, police and health ministry ~~i~Mi and the World Health Organization investigators found no evidence of examined the victims, but so far deliberate or inadvertent poisoning. 
;,,,,,,..,,,.},.:·.;<¥
;BJR.'tl;F·OCUS
have issued no reports on the puz­Modan says he would not rule out a zling events that started in Arraba, a psychosomatic cause for the il­village of7,000 Palestinians 45 miles lnesses. north ofJerusalem. That evening, a car or van, Moden held a news conference 
It began at a girls' high school spewing smoke from its exhaust, April 1 with the head of the Israeli when several teen-age girls were drove through a residential neigh­medical corps to repeat that there sickened by the odor of rotten eggs. borhood in Jenin. Almost 80 people was no evidence ofpoison. Dr.· Baruch Modan. an were rushed to hospitals. ModaQ Brig. Gen. Shlomo llya, the head of epidemiologist and director-general called it wave three in the epidemic. the Israeli West Bank administra­of Israel's Health Ministry, believes The victims still were genuinely ill, tion, charged that Palestinian ex­the cause was hydrogen sulfide gas he said, but no physical cause could tremists were trying to stir up a from a pit latrine at the school. be found. frenzy against Israel. 
Two hours later, dozens of other On March 29 Jenin was sealed off On April 3. a fourth wave of the girls, complaining of dizziness, by Israeli troops and placed under a epidemic hit, striking a village near nausea and blurred vision, became curfew. Officers were not permitted Nablus and in Hebron, in the south­ill at the mid-morning recess. It was to enter. In Arraba, al-Arda and other ern part ofthe West Bank. About 400 the start of mass hysteria, Modan West Bank leaders demanded an in­schoolgirls went to hospitals, bring­said. Arraba's mayor Mahmoud ai­vestigation to determine "what the ing the total number ofgirls affected 
Fah al-Arda said 69 girls were sent to poison is and the people responsible to over 800. hospitals. for doing it." Modan believes some of the latest On March 26, a second outbreak Palestinian doctors repeatedly at­victims were affected by rumors of hit six girls' schools in and around tributed the illness to "poison gas" poisoning. He called it Jenin, six miles northeast of Arraba. though they acknowledge they have "paramedical, extra-medical, you Almost 250 students were sent to no idea what the gas is. can call it political." 
Nouwen dedicates escbuilding 
By TOM MOWLE the least," Nouwen said, must not Copy Editor be based on guilt feelings, "but out of gratitude to God." He "What have you done for the declared that Catholic education least ofmine?" . should be "directed to serve 
That, Father Henri Nouwen those who have less power." said in his homily at yesterday's 
Nouwen summarized thededication Mass for the Center spirituality of social concerns infor Social Concerns (CSC), is the ·the profession of faith: "Christquestion we will all have to has died, Christ is risen, Christ answer in the final analysis. 
will come again." As Christians,The Mass was concelebrated he said, we are called to revealby University President Father that "God has saved the worldTheodore Hesburgh and many and mankind has been set free byother Notre Dame priests. 
the suffering ofChrist."
Nouwen said the CSC represents "a commitment to be By Christ's death, Nouwen concerned for the poor, the said, "all suffering is lifted up into prisoners, the blind, and all those the house ofGod." who live in fear." 
SeeNOUWEN,page 5 
This "ministry of attention to 

ews Brie s 
Friday, April 15, 1983 -page 2 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Bishop Wllliam E. McManus of Fort Wayne­South Bend and Father Richard Warner, superior of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, will speak on the latest draft of the American 
Chicago politics ex machina 
Catholic bishops' pastoral letteron war and peace Sunday at 8 p.m. in 

the Memorial Library auditorium. The event, entitled "What Are the Bishops Saying About Nuclear Arms?" will precede by two weeks a gathering of the American bishops in Chicago to vote on the 150­page document whose development has held international attention for more than a year. Father Warner is a consultant for the commit­tee which, underJoseph Cardinal Bernardin's leadership, composed the letter and issued its third revision April 5. The presentation is sponsored by Notre Dame's Office of Campus Ministry. -The Ob­server 
An associate professorofpoliticalscience 
at Brown University, will give a lecture entitled "The Logic ofPoliti­cal Terror: Individual Calculations and Survival During the Holocaust" Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Library Lounge. Alan Zuckerman, a faculty fellow in the Program ofJudaic Studies at Brown, has writ­ten several articles on the Holocaust and is co-author ofa forthcom­ing book, "Nahman's Windstorm: Modernization and the Transformation ofJewish Communities." His lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Theology as one of its Crown-Minow series.-The Observer 
The Snite Museum ofArt wm host an opening reception for the annual student show from 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday. At 
1:30 and 3:30p.m. the Abiogenesis Dance Collective will give a spe­cial performance in the Atrium of the museum. From 1 to 4 p.m. in the Isis Gallery ofthe new Art Building, a companion show will hold its opening. The work ofseniors and master offine arts students will be included in the show, which will remain open until May 15.-The Observer 
An auction ofbicyclesandmiscellaneous items found on the University of Notre Dame campus will be conflucted 11 a.m. tomorrow at Gate 11 (South Side) of the Football Stadium. Proceeds of the annual event go to the University's general fund. ­
The Observer 
Emillio Navarrohas pleaded innocent to four counts of making obscene telephone calls to a number he said he picked at random. It turned out to belong to the sheriffs wife. Navarro, 31, a supply man at the Sacramento Army Depot, was arrested Tuesday, and Wednesday entered his innocent plea to the misdemeanor charges in Sacramento Municipal Court. Sacramento County Sheriff Robbie Waters told reporters that his wife, Judi, had recently been receiving obscene telephone calls. He said it became particularly annoying the evening of April 7 when the same man called four or five times. The sheriff had one of the obscene calls traced by the phone company. -AP 
Narcotics detectives are crediting a stool pigeon ­the kind with wings and feathers -for helping them arrest a Tel Aviv drug pusher. Police said the pusher returned to one of his hiding places recently to retrieve a stash of about two ounces of heroin. Unfortunately for the drug peddler, however, a pigeon had built its nest in a hole in a wall where the man had put the drugs. Police said the bird bit his hand and then flew away, attracting the attention of detectives who had sacked out the area. The 3 3-year-old pusher was arrested. -AP 
The nation's Roman Catholicbishops yester­
day issued an appeal to East and West that condemned all "means of mass destruction," espeCially medium-range missiles, and urged the superpowers to start a phased reduction oftheir "destruction poten­tials." Cardinal Franz Koenig, chairman ofthe Austrian Bishops' Con­ference, said in a statement that the appeal was intended to speed peace efforts without "unilaterally" encouraging the interests ofthe Soviet or U.S. blocs. Conference spokesman Bishop Helmut Kraetzl said he hoped the "clear language" of the appeal would provide moral support to U.S. bishops who have been leading a church move­
ment for disarmament. -AP 
The Soviet Union and Poland yesterday signed an agreement to cooperate in building Poland's first nuclear power plant, the official news agency Tass reported. Tass said the plant would have four reactors, each to produce 440 megawatts, and would be built on the shore of Lake Zarnowhec in the Gdansk region. The Soviet Union's current five-year economic plan calls for accelerated construction of nuclear power plants in the European part of the country and for cooperation with other Warsaw Pact nations in building nuclear plants. -AP 
Unseasonably cold and windy today with a 4o per­cent chance ofsnowshowers. Highs in mid to upper 30s. tonight a 40 percent chance for snow showers and cold. Low around 30. Mostly cloudy and cold tomorrow. High around 40. -AP 
The election is over. 
Reporters from Washington, New York, Paris, and Tokyo are now long gone. A week from now, everyone except Chicagoans will forget Chicago. The city, un­nerved by national attention, will return to being Chicago, complete with its neighborhoods and politicians. 
Many say the "Machine" ofRichard Daley, Sr. is dead, but one glance at the history ofChicago politics informs even the most self-righteous New Englander that Harold Washington will not be able to dent the surface ofthe city's most exclusive club. Instead, he will join it. And it will not be a free choice. 
Any reporter in Chicago for last Tuesday's election can tell you how disorganized both the Epton and Washington campaigns were. At Epton headquarters on Michigan Ave., life-long Democrats were eagerly await­ing Wednesday when they would exchange their "Be a Republican for a day" pins for "Get Epton" buttons. 
Later that night, at the Pal­mer House, the Epton cam­paign disintegrated almost as soon as the polls closed. 
Campaign workers knew 
toonist for the Chicago they had lost many votes in Tribune, recently the areas about which they caricatured a map ofthe city had felt so confident. So with wards alternately much for ethnic support. labelled "us" and "them." 
At Washington headquar­But that is not to say that ters during the day, the only Chicago fails as a city; quite persons who seemed to to the contrary, Chicago is know what they were doing the cultural hub and politi­were a Chicago police of­cal cornerstone ofthe entire ficer and Patrick Calleck, Midwest. head pollster for Jimmy Car­But what Chicago's fac­ter's ill-fated re-election tionalism does point out is
Chicaso
campaign. 
Washington's celebration party at Donnelly Hall on the South Side remained a literal three-ring circus throughout the night. But this was no Barnum and Bailey production. There was no grand ringmaster to control a crowd which became unruly as the night wore on. Few even knew what the returns 
were, as the Washington campaign conveniently used their large-screen projection units for campaign slogans. So much for informing the electorate. 
Only one television set was available for reporters, and few could get through the crowd which poured into the press area. No one had thought to build a phone room -reporters shouted over telephones to editors who could hear only a rock band positioned forty feet from the curtained pressarea. So much for organization. 
Once the results were official, hawkers outside Don­
nelly Hall began hawking "We won" buttons while 
Washington promised his supporters a special role in 
the governing of Chicago. The next day, at a unity 
prayer luncheon, attended by Washington, State's At­
torney Richie Daley, and MayorJane Byrne, Bernard Ep-
Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistant .... Dave ''Get a Haircut" Robinson Layout Staff..... Carol "Late Night" Camp Typesetters ............................. Bruce Oakley AI Novas News Editor .................................. Vic Sciulli Copy Editor............................... Carol Camp Features Layout ................ Sarah Hamilton Mary Healy Editorials Layout. ................... Tari Brown Sports Copy Editor. .. ...... Steve Labate ND Day Editor.... .. .... Tim Petters SMC Day Editor........ ........... Bruce Oakley Typists...... ...................Joe Daddy Ad Design .......... .. ..........Joe Mama Photographer .... ............ Lucian Niemeyer Guest Appearances ............ Maggie Brown Jeb "Horky is a god" Cashin Pizzaluigi Chris "South Bend reminds me ofButler, N.J." Dore  
.  "The Impossible Dream"  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s  
publiShed Monday through Fnday and  
on home football Saturdays except  
dunng exam and vacation per1ods The  
Observer IS publ1shed by thB students  
of Notre Dame and Samt Mary's Col­ 
lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased  
tor $25 per year i$15 per semester) by  
wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0  
Notre Dame. lndlana46556  
The Observer IS a member of The  
Associated Press All reproduction  
nghts are reserved  
Second class postage pa1d at Notre  
Dame Indiana 46556  

~iorBar 
Senior Bar Happy H~ur today starting at 4:00 
DRAFT SPECIALS 

Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Frid 

ton sent his brotherSaul in his place. So much for unity. 
White support for Washington, which had been estimated at over 20 percent Tuesday night, later fell to 18percent including the Hispa t nic vote. Ifpollsters are correct, Washington received less than 14 percent of the white vote. Black support for Washington topped 99 percent. So much for inter-racial cooperation. 
If Tuesday's election proved anything, it was that Chicago is too small to be America's Second City. It is an aggregate ofneighborhoods which share police and fire 
departments and a rapid transit system. Jeffrey MacNelly, Pultizer Prize-winning editorial car­
that Washington's ad­
ministration will not be able 
to overturn the Democratic 
Machine. Mayor Jane Byrne, who ran on a. reform ticket in 1979 against Michael Bilandic, soon became a member of the Machine only months after she took office. Even she could not pass up the support which men like Eddie Vrdolyak and Vito Marzullo promised. 
If Washington hopes to bring the city together, he must listen to the Cook County Democratic Organiza­tion and hope it supports him throughol!t his term. It is ironic that the Washington campaign, proclaimed a "people's victory," could not survive the Machine's stranglehold on Chicago if it insists on people's rule. Democracy elects mayors; politics runs their cities. 
Observer note._______, 
The Observeris always lookingfor new talent. If 
you are interested in newspaper writing or 
newspaper production, stop up at The Observer 
office on the 3rd floor of the LaFortune Student 
Center. 
....-------.r---------~---------,~------------~~-------.~---~---,··---r----~---. 
The Observer Friday, April IS, 1983-page 3 
----------------------------------------·-------------------------------­
'Binary Phenomenon' 
Perils of proliferation discussed 
Uy MARY DOLAN 
News Staff 
"The genie is out of the bottle" according to graduate student Cyn­thia Watson in reference to nuclear proliferation. "Ifany state wants the bomb, it can get it. The information is available so that any student could put together a bomb ifhe was to gain the materials." 
Watson, in pursuit of her disserta­tion on the geopolitics of Argentina and Brazil, discussed nuclear proliferation in the Third World last night in the second of two lectures sponsored by Ground Zero, an or­ganization aimed at disseminating information about nuclear topics. 
Watson states that a fearful at­
titude toward proliferation is due to confuston between nuclear weapons and nuclear power, such as that provided by a nuclear gener­ator. Only six nations are known to have weapons, while almost two 
dozen can exercise nuclear power which does not necessarily lead to production of atomic bombs. 
The three prerequisites necessary for a nation to gain nuclear status are possession of scientific expertise, fissionable material and delivery capability. 
Watson stressed that any nation can gain the essential scientific know-how. Therefore the United States' best chance at controlling proliferation is to control the trans­fer of fissionable material between nations. 
She added later that "addressing 
SU commissioner proposes T -shirt shop 
Income tax ~forms due by midnight 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Millions of taxpayers are lining up in banks, accountants' offices and at post offices today to square things with Uncle Sam for another year. 
Midnight tonight is the deadline for most couples and individuals to file their 1982 tax returns, and mem­lbers of Congress seized the oppor­ltUnity yesterday to assail the tax :>ystem as complex and unfair, and to offer ti].eir own plans for cleaning it up. 
Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., and Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., unveiled a refinement of their simplified tax that attracted widespread interest last year. It would wipe out most deductions, most people would pay a 14 percent tax rate and 70 percent of taxpayers would get a tax cut. 
Sen. Dan.Quayle, R-Ind., proposed a similar plan. And an other proposal, by Rep. Leon Panetta, D­Calif., would allow a four-member family SI 3,333 income without paying taxes. 
The system is "beginning to crumble under its own weight," Gephardt said. "But help is on the way." 
Don't hold your breath. Sponsors 
of tax-simplification plans agree 
there is little chance Congress will 
approve any wholesale revamping of 
the income tax in the next several years. 
According to the proposal, the shop would require an initial invest· ment of around S8,000. The funds would come from the Student Union · budget, according to Rolfes. 
A similar amount was invested in the flower shop, which will probab­ly clear S50,000 before the end of the year, Director of Student Ac­tivities)ames McDonnell stated. 
The proposal will be officially presented to the Student Union Steering Committee on Monday, and, if approved, will be presented to McDonnell, Father John Van Wolvlear, Vice President for Student Affairs, and Thomas Mason, Vice President for Business Affairs. 
"LaFortune is loaded with wasted space, with the exception of the Ob· server offices," said McDonnell, who is "looking for more ways to use this building." He feels that if the stu· dents support the idea, it will be ap­proved. 
the genuine insecurities and fears of these nations" would be most suc­cessful. 
According to Watson, some ofthe reasons a Third World nation would seek nuclear power include a desire to become a global or regional power, its economic attractiveness and regional rivalry. She cites "binary phenomena," her term for this rivalry, as the perceived threat of a neighboring country as a jus­tification for seeking the bomb. Ex­
amples  include  Argentina, Brazil,  
Iran and Iraq.  
Many  countries,(ie.,the  U.S.,  

U.S.S.R., France and West Germany), get credit as soutces of fissionable material. Yet Watson stated that "the very often forgotten Canada has been instrumental in developing power." Again, Argentina has been a recipient ofthis aid. 
In discussing attempts to control nuclear proliferation, Watson said that both the United States and the 
U.S.S.R. agree in limiting its growth as much as possible. Within the United States, President Ford began to limit the sharing of technology, while Carter went even further by closing breeder reactors and encouraging less developed countries to buy materials from the ·united States, thus enabling the monitoring of the possession of the fissionable material that is necessary 
for nuclear status. 
Watson traced the history ofinter­national agreements intending to curb nuclear proliferation and al­though there have been difficulties with these laws and treaties, she points out that there has been "no proliferation in almost a decade in terms of nuclear devices." 
Although this is encouraging, she asserts that the U.S. does not set a very good example, and cannot ex­pect to say to a nation "You cannot build." Therefore she concludes that it must be accepted that there will always be various degrees of proliferation and uses of that power. 
n:OO: 
l,l:30; .. 
ByLIZMnLER 
News Staff 
Mark Rolfes, 1983-84 Student Uni­on Services Commissioner has proposed that a customized T-shirt shop be opened in the LaFortune Student Center next year. 
The proposed store would supply hall shirts, interhall sports uniforms, dub and organization shirts, Bookstore Basketball team uni­forms, and individual novelty shirts, and would not be "in conflict or (:ompetition with the Notre Dame Bookstore, as the Bookstore does not offer the service of customized shirts," Rolfes noted. 
Rolfes's proposal claims that the shop would provide shirts "at a lower cost and a greater con­venience than can be found else­where." 
"In addition, this store would provide a number ofon-campus jobs and business experience to the manager and to the workers," Rolfes said. 
.................oupon......-........ 
Students and Staff 
of St. ffinty's nnd Notte Dame 
additional oH
SlOO 
On yout best denl on nny new T oyotn. Just ptesent coupon nnd I.D. to 
ffiichael Fahey at 



The Observer Friday, April 15, 1983 -page 4 

Th~ Obscrv~r/Lucian Niemeyer 
A muddy but determined volleyball player continues his match in adverse weather conditions yesterda_y_ The mud pit located acrossfrom Stepan Center was the site ofthis messy contest as An 
Tostalfestivities begin. · 
Opening Tuesday Night: 
Eileen O'Meara 
photographs************** 
Carl Beitzi nger 
pottery******************* Isis Gallery 3rd Fjoor West Art Building 
s7gs
ONLY PER PERSON 
5405 Children Under 12 
BBQ BEEF RIBS • BBQ CHICKEN 
• BBQ SPARE RIBS 
•
SPICY CHICKEN WINGS 

•
BBQ STYLE SLICED BEEF 


Bak•d Potato Bar wllh Six Topp1n11se Bak•d Buns Corn CobMttes • Homemade Soup • Corn Bread 
Help yourself to as much as you like of these charcoal broiled meats and freshly prepared items. Offer valid Jan. 17·21 and_Jan. 24·28 
Offer jOOd on above dales durma dmncr hours only Canno1 bto uw:d in conJunction wnh other offers Tax and up not .ndudcd Products mus1 be consumed on prcm1se 

In retaliation 
Soviets: No missiles for Cuba 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet Union has "no need" to put nuclear missiles in Cuba in retaliation for 
U.S. deployment of new medium­range rockets in Europe later this year, a top Soviet general says. 
It was the clearest signal yet from the Soviets that Cuba does not figure in their threat to retaliate for the planned "Euromissile" deployment. 
The comments were made by Maj. Gen. Yuri V. Lebedev, a military ad­visor to ·Soviet arms-control negotiators, in an interview with The Associated Press. 
Kremlin officials have warned 
repeatedly they will put the lJnit.ed 
States in an "analogous position" if 
the American missiles are stationed 
in Western Europe, within a few 
minutes' striking distance of Soviet 
territory. 
These statements raised specula­
tion in the United States that the 
Soviets were considering deploying 
mid-range rockets in Cuba. 
Lebedev, dismissing that pos­
sibility, said one of the retaliatory 
options available to Soviet leaders 
would simply be expanding their 
own intermediate-range nuclear 
forces in Europe. 
"It's enough to deploy new sys· 
terns in Soviet territory," he said. 
"Would missiles be placed in 
Soviet-allied Cuba?" he was asked. 
"There is no need to do it and I 
have underlined that already," he 
responded. 
In 1962 the Soviets tried to install missiles in Cuba but pulled them back in a nuclear showdown with the United States. 
The 55-year-old Lebedev, ruddy, round-faced and black-haired, was interviewed through an interpreter at a Foreign Ministry press center. The interview was one of several by government, military and academic figures who have been unusually ac­cessible to visiting American repor· ters at a time when the Soviet Union and the United States are trying to influence public opinion on the con· troversial question of nuclear arms in Europe. 
In the hour-long interview on the nuclear arms race, the blunt­speaking general, a long-time com­mander of missile forces, also described President Reagan's proposed anti-missile system as ul­timately useless. 
The United States, under a NATO decision, plans to begin deploying 572 new medium-range missiles, with ranges of up to 1,500 miles, in five West European countries late this year. The Soviets have a similar number of SS-20s and other 

AN TOSTAL ;83 
.::. 
"A Week of Fun &Absurdity!"
·.·.. THE DATING GAME 1.. A chance not only to embarass yourself 11 but to get a real date as well. 1 i call Ann at 3680 for details ~····. ·······DAISY SALE! ·« "Say it with posies" ··•·· 
,_. On sale in the dining halls at dinner TODAY and next week. 
AND NEXT WEEK ... 
•UMOC 
voting at dinner 

•Mr. 
Goodbar is coming 

•Golf 
Tourney 

•Chance 
to Dance 



intermediate-range missiles tar­geted on Western Europe. 
The NATO decision calls for in­
stallation of the missiles unless the 
United States and Soviet Union first 
negotiate an agreement reducing 
medium·rangenuclear weapons in 
Europe. Those negotiations, now 18 
months old, appear deadlocked. 
Lebedev was asked what the Soviet leadership meant when it threatened to put the United States in an "analogous position" ifthe new missiles are deployed. 
The general smiled, turning his eyeglasses in his hand. "Do you have any doubts we will do it?" he asked. 
Pressed on whether the threat meant missiles would be placed within close range of the United States, he replied: 
"First of all, you have to know the general trend in Soviet policy -that 
Protests planned by Polish underground 
WAR~A W, Poland (AP) -The Solidarity underground yesterday urged Polish workers to demonstrate nationwide on May Day to protest "the taking of our holiday" by the Communist regime. 
The appeal was issued after police 
interrogated the wife of Solidarity 
chief Lech Walesa for three hours. 
Dan uta Walesa said police in Gdansk 
frisked her before questioning her 
about her husband's contacts with 
the underground. 
The underground communique, distributed to Western reporters, said "We are calling for demonstra· tions under the slogans: free all political prisoners; end price in­creases; (give) the fruits of labor to society; (and) peace and solidarity." 
It urged supporters to prepare protest marches, paint placards and leaflets, and boycott official May Day celebrations as "an expression of our opposition against the taking of our holiday by the authorities who declared war on their own society," a reference to the declaration of martial law. 
Walesa, reached by telephone at his apartment in Gdansk, would not publicly endorse the communique, signed by the five underground leaders he met with over the weekend. 
Asked whether he supported the call for demonstrations, Walesa said, "Those who signed it support it. But 
not a single nuclear system is 
deployed anywhere else but in 
Soviet territory ... 
"And now we can say technologi· cal progress has brought us to the point where we don't have to have Soviet weapons within 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) of U.S. ter­ritory." 
He said there were numerous al­ternative "reactions." Asked whether one might be expansion of the advanced, triple warhead SS-20 force, Lebedev said, "It is one of the options." 
He cut off discussion of the op· tions, and said "I cannot predict, but I still believe there will be good will on the part of the United States ... not to deploy the new systems." 
The former artilleryman, four rows ofservice ribbons on his olive· colored uniform jacket, chain· smoked during the interview. 
you must understand, I am not distancing myself from it, and you must understand why I am saying this now." 
Walesa is under heavy police sur· veillance and has been extremely cautious in publicly voicing support for the undergound. Walesa said Tuesday ·night that he and his Solidarity colleagues had agreed to back each other's policy statements. 
Both Walesa, who was inter­
rogated for five hours Wednesday, 
and his wife were asked by police 
about the clandestine weekend ses­
sion with the underground. 
But Walesa refused to disclose details of either the meeting or the police interrogation, and Mrs. Walesa told reporters she knew no­thing about her husband's meeting 
with the underground. 
The underground communique, signed by the members of Solidarity's fugitive Temporary Coordinating Commission, was stronger than a statement last month which also called for demonstra­tions against the regime May 1, tradi­tionally observed as the workers' holiday. 
The Polish government imposed martial law on Dec. 13, 1981, suspended Solidarity, interned Walesa and most of the other union leaders, and.imposed tight controls on society to prevent a fresh labor challenge. • 
CANCER. 
NOT KNOWING 
THE 
RISKS IS YOUR 
GREATEST RISK. 
Alot of people think cancer is unbeatable. 
That simply isn't true. In fact, over two million people have had cancer and survived to lead happy, normal lives. 
And not only can cancer be beaten, it can also be prevented. 
There are definite precautions that have been proven to decrease your risk ofgetting certain cancers. 
Ask your local American Cancer Society to send you a free booklet about cancer risks. 
Learn the facts about cancer. And make not know­ing the risks, one less risk. 
~~ 
tSOCElY" 
How you live may save your life. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, April 15, 1983 -page 5 
Opening its doors 
Center for Social Concerns has just what it wants and neects 
ByPATSAIN 
~taff Reporter 
Adetective is no longer needed to find the social concerns groups on campus. 
The Centerfor Experiential Learning -for­merly hidden oh the II th floor ofthe library -and the Volunteer Services Organization ­tucked away on I. 5 LaFortune -were combined last January under one roof in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Dedication ceremonies today make that of· ficial. 
''The building enhances our presence here on campus," said Sister Judith Anne Beattie, assistant director for service and learning. "The Center's previous locations were not ac· cessible to the general student pattern." 
The center nnw occupies the former \X'NDI building located hehind Breen­Phillips near the :\lemorial Library. 
"!laving all the offices in one place makes 
staff teamwork much better," said Director of 
the Cc::nter father Don McNeill. "The student 
: cnluntc::er,) also have a phone, a better place 
:, mtcr-tet, to ~it and read whik waiting for 
.,-,_, "llc..;:-nd rn I• _,..-, ahout 'h• social ''·ork 
~. 1.·r !i: -..,p.tct_·, l'i;.· n "\\·f;;:c: iii~i<''-, !llc..~lui.l: .; .':ltdli c-l·~T~lL ,.~_. ... ,-._, :1 '· cc~·~.,.:'-:l!~U~;:."'. i·1 ..~;--. "i(,····ar r··~··;l :-··tlecttnn rnc''~ 
. :/ 
,: jo 
t"' 0 ~~ tj 11 
i'I_" ·. -:.>• 
~Ln.,;. •,·•..· ·~·ll._·nt! •.:-.. t:·,r~h:.-.ct!·-....ion..., .1nd il h.,.. · ":,:dl~nt ;;udi••-vhual~:quipmcnt for ... , · ~,.,. a"d oth..-r p1 ~·--·tuatiu;·,~.--\kN<'ill 'ail!. 
The rnulti-pttrpo~t· mom also enables pcoplt to dbcm:-tilm:-atkr they have seen thcm, which ;,. not ea~y to do in a place like the F.ngmcering Auditorium. 
"Students who u:-e the classroom and are not involved in the ccntt:r's activities get a c9ancc to see what the center does. and to ask f(Jr more information." ,.aid Andrea Shappel, coordinator for Summer Service Projects. 
In addition to presentations, groups often usc the multi-purpose room for meals, Beattie said. The center wants to feature different cul­tural foods, cooked in the: Center's kitchen, on Thursdays. A Cambodian lunch held two weeks ago was a big success, she noted. 
The seminar rooms are also a huge success, McNeill said, because they are so well suited to group discussions and seminars. The recent student nuclear conference three weeks ago used the rooms for follow-up discussions. McNeill said later that the cemer's involve­ment with the conference showed him that the center would be "more than just a pile of bricks." 
A unique feature of the center is the coffee house. "It enables a varied type ofcom­munication tieween faculty, students, and alumni," McNeill said. "It provides a space for conversations among people, especially after afternoon classes. The professors often stay and talk, and the coffee house enables them to do it away from the podium." 
The library. when completed, will be located on the second tloor ofthe: center. "Eventually. we want audio cas!>ertt·s ofsome of the better speakns deal_ing with problems such as war and peace. the Church and social action," :\1<···.-·illc:?laincd . 
...,.he libr:~c\ ~hould b•···· Hlle a r(·alit·. very ..,,Jtiii ·-.,ai·· h.·t!tlt ~n ~_-.,. ··q~o:_·rt. rt.• :~L,_;_ ·ani dtt. ct-)r tc. :.. •: iJ; .Hl:_·~-.--,i~. ··i ,-iH ; .. : •.:.;_ 
.·in..:tu.-ttin~ :~, it:' i-·.., •IJf ... lfdt.:JI :--":. =t ..{;-o. h~H~::.-~) pt_.rf··~li<.~ah .::•d p~,:~.·: -= ~ul .~~·!:' ,,:;,·, :i; 'or.. •,.tl issues." 

:lol 
~-~-: ••! 111 q.:l ·' -,h ...::"~ir ...._,;_._ ; -~=nm 
iJl ·. 3b0 he~.;:_ -' i"t.=f lilU(~Ie' ttlt.i pr:!;-;!tC 
p.....-· ·r. 
Twl.:nt}-f"-, ~tud1.:nt volunt~.:er group, 
\\ <Jrk nut of th, 'Tnter in a large room on the 
center's south :-ide. Having thc!le group' ncar 
the center'., Malt' giv .. , them extra ad­
ministrative help, Shappell sard. 
Recruiting for summer service projects, f(>r example, has increased from ·J-0 to 90 people this year, and Shappel attributes this rise to the increase in tht· center's visibility. "\Ve were on the II th tloor of the library, and it was dif· ficult to find, because of the maze ofoffices." 
Hut the challenge of having everything un­der one roof, :vtc~eill said, is to "avoid the attitude that 'social justice happens here, and here only.' Social justice happens all over. We need to develop a network wah the ad-
That volunteer touch 
1,000 students aid community 
By CATHY PAX 
StaffReporter 
The stereotypic image ofa student volun· teer dressed in cheery candystripes fails to capture the wealth ofvariety Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students find in volunteer services. 
And whether they teach music to pres­choolers in the Head Start program or write letters advocating humane treatment ofwar prisoners as a member ofAmnesty Interna­tional, all unite to form an integral part of the Center ofSocial Concerns. 
Twenty-two student service organizations operate from the renovated WNDU building which official becomes the Center for Social Concerns today. Approximately I,000 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students currently volunteer. 
The success of the volunteer programs is a result of the students. said Sister Judith Beattie, an assistant director ofthe center. "Studentssee the needs in the community and get things going to meet these needs." But the University itself, Beattie said, is also partly responsible for such high participation since 
the very mission ofthe school entails a service ministry. 
• 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program and Logan Center receive much of this free labor. as they are the two largest volunteer organiza­tions on campus. The NSH program tutors grade school students in about IS different centers in the South Bend area. Tutors usually spend one hour helping a child twice a week. 

• 
About 200 volunteers at Logan Center work with retarded children and adults during the weekend with nearly 60 volunteers working on any given Saturday morning. The sessions 


include periods of music, arts and crafts and athletics. "It's fun to go down there," said co­director of the organization, Eileen Murphy. "Originally many students come down as a punishment from their rector, but then they stay because it's a lot offun." 
• 
The World Hunger Coalition requires its volunteers not to give up their time, but their lunch on Wednesdays. The dining hall pays the coalition 75 cents per fasting volunteer. This money is sent to volunteer agencies in the United States and oversees to aid the poor and hungry who constitute two-thirds of the world's population, according to the CSC's data. 

• 
With An Tosral in the near future, Alpha Phi Omega, a national service fraternity, will plan its largest fundraiser, the "Ugly M;m on Campus" contest. With these proceeds Alpha 


! 
·iile l-::;;;~;;, 101 :~,._:::;.;. • .,_,:l•>,.;r,s (Top) is dt•.J•:al ,. ·a; .,_:._: IJirec,~r ., """ center Father [ic,-Mci-·Jeill l~'ghi) hopes the builr:mL'::, '.<;1 '::es. sue!. a~ :.:,mina. rooms, will make :ire center a unique resource on '.:.-'•·':)LJ?__ _ ___ 
tllln~l rat ion. ~tudcnh. anJ dorm~. Tht:n· must 
not he a ~plit between tllL\cla~sroom and ac­
tivitie~." 
But the old WN Dl building centralizes tht: different groups and is "very visihk" on campu~. said :\1ary Meg :\lcCarthy. one ofthe ~otre Dame graduates who proposed that the building be used for the Center t(Jr Social Con­cerns. "It is obvious to everyone that social concerns is a priority on this campus. The problems are becoming more complex, and 
the education we are receiving must meet these problems. The Social Concerns Center is an obvious way to do this." 
McNeill agrees. "I think the University's commitment to social issues and the hard 
Phi Omega assists Sister Marieta's Primary Day 
School in South Bend. 
Children who attend this school have failed public primary school and need extra tutor­ing. After their work is completed, they return to the public school, better prepared for success. 
• 
Juvenile shoplifters are aided by the Stu­dents Assisting Students program. Volunteers help the South Bend Police Department by counseling juvenile criminals. The Student Tutorial Educational Program also aids IS-to 

I7-year-old boys who have been convicted of minor crimes. 

• 
For students who cannot spare the extra time during the school year, the Community for the International Lay Apostolate organizes several different summer service projects. Volunteers spend eight to I 0 weeks in areas such as New York, Appalachia, Peru, Chile, Mexico, and Panama. During the school year, CILA visits nursing homes and schools for the retarded. CILA members also assist with the two-day Urban Plunge program during Christmas Break. e 



The center offers students a lounge for relaxing. (Photos by Scott Bower) 
\Vork on thL part of the o;tlH.lenb wh<~ n .·om· mended tlie move'"''· n-a big factor in LIK cetr­ter gt;tting the nuilding," he said. 
Architecture plans. developed at the students' request, were presented to father Theodore Hesburgh. l'ni,·ersity president. and the Board ofTrustees in 1980. The l 'ni­versity approved the center·,. move last year. Renovation cost S.:\52,000 contributed most­ly from private donors. 
The center was not the only organization asking for the use of the building. Also in the running were the Placement Bureau and EGucational Media. both of which sought more space on campus. e 
• • • Nouwen 
continuedfrom page I 
God's rising proves that "death, illness, and pain are no longer having the last word." 
The Mass marked the official opening ofthe CSC, located between the Memorial Library and Breen-Phillips Hall. The CSC is a combina­tion of the Volunteer Services Organization, which was located on Floor I. 5 of LaFortune, and the Center for Experiential Learning. 
The Center will sponsor films, slide shows, 
lectures, and seminars on a variety of issues, 
such as nuclear arms, world hunger, Third 
World development, and race relations to 
provide students with opportunities for 
theological insight into their social service 
responsibilities. . 
The Center is directed by Father Don McNeill. Kathleen Weigert and Sister Judith Anne Beattie are assistant directors; other faculty, alumni, and students work part-time. 
Nouwen earned a degree in psychology at the University of Nijmegen in his native Net­herlands. While attending college, he worked in coal mines, factories, the army, and as a chaplain for the Dutch-American line. 
Later, Nouwen served as a pastor in Louisiana, then moved on to a religion and psychiatry program at the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, Kansas. While there, he was invited to Notre Dame by John Santos, who served as chairman of the Department of Psychology. During his tenure at Notre Dame, Nouwen has written Compassion, a book upon which he collaborated with McNeill and others. 
The dedication ceremonies continue today with a symposium on social justice by Holy Cross history professor David O'Brien at the CSC. O'Brien, a I960 Notre Dame graduate, will analyze the future of social services at Catholic colleges. -~ .:t. 

The Observer 
OSHA head halts plan to end carcinogen ID 

CAME ~MUSIC 
ISMU NDMOREI 
Prices Good 
Thru 
Sunday 
Albums
and 
8.49
cassettes 
EACH 
U2 WAR • STYX • MICHAEL JACKSON 
+ 
PINK FLOYD • KENNY ROGERS 
Givethegift 
ALABAM.~ • DEXYS MIDNIGHT RUNNERS
ofmusic. 

CAMEIDr~ 1 Available At Your Nearby
MUSIC@ E 1 CAMELOT MUSIC Store 
pull them back in," he said. "I said, 'Wait a minute, you guys hav sort of got off/ track here. Let's go back to the drawing board again." 
Auchter stressed that OSHA had never reached the point of propos­ing a formal revocation ofthe cancer policy, which was implemented by the Carter administration in january 1980. 
The heart of that policy was a re­quirement that OSHA intensify its monitoring of suspected car­cinogens in the workplace. The regulation required OSHA to pub­lish a list of these suspected hazards once a year, and follow up with a shorter "priority" list of the most potentially dangerous substances. 
The publication of that "priority" 
list, which industry officials 
denounced as a "hit list," would 
have set priorities for OSHA's rule 
proposals on health standards for 
the most dangerous substances. 
Auchter acknowledged that his agency was moving toward abandoning the cancer policy during the controversy over alleged conflicts of interest at the EPA. But he denied that the EPA investigation or his intense interrogation by Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., play'ed any part in his final decision not to seek revocation ofthe policy. 
It was at a March 16 hearing by a House Appropriations subcommit­tee that Obey accused Auchter of failing to do enough to protect workers' health and safety on the 
job. 
The OSHA chief did concede in the interview with The Associated Press that a draft document seeking to revise the cancer policy could have been widely misinterpreted. 
"You could have read that docu­ment as being a revocation" of Car­ter administration policy, he said. 
But Auchter stressed that "I have not made any decision" on what revision of the cancer policy, if any, that the agency might ultimately propose. 
The AFL-CIO, Ralph Nader's Health Research Group and the American Public Health Association petitioned Auchter's agency yester­day to issue an emergency tem­porary health standard further restricting the exposure of an es­timated 600,000 workers to ben­zene, widely used in the manufacture of detergents, resins and pesticides, which has been shown to cause leukemia in humans. 
Auchter had indicated earlier that he would review the existing government standard on benzene, but only through a lengthier rule­making process. 
• • • SOLA 
continuedfrom page 1 
SOLA will be taking information provided in the club throughout the campus to increase community awareness of Latin America. The group is planning academic, cultural and political events to provide stu­dents and faculty with as much in­formation as possible. 
"There's an incredible amount of people who are from Latin America and could share a lot of information with us, but they can't because there is no way for them to channel it," Tenriero concluded. "We will be there to give these people an oppor­tunity to channel their information." 
SOLA's first meeting will be this Sunday at 6: 1 5 in the Library Lounge. The meeting will outline the group's structure and establish its goals as well as providing a chance for prospective members to give ideas. All interested students and faculty are invited to attend. 
More information can be attained by 
calling 283-3333. 
Associated Pr~ss , 
Honduran soldiers stop on their patrol about Nicaragua "to avoid drawing any unnecessary 300 yards from the Nicaraguan border, near the gunfire" from Nicaraguan outposts on the other toum of Las Trojes, Honduras recently. The sol­side. diers keep their distance from the border with 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Reagan administration official responsible for protecting workers' health has retreated from a plan to revoke a policy requiring his agency to identify and classify suspected cancer-causing substances. 
But Thorne G. Auchter, chief of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, denies that the plan, which had been under considera­tion for months, was dropped be­cause of the congressional investigation into allegations ofcon­flict ofinterest at the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Auchter, in an interview, said aides had gotten "off the track." "I had to get with our folks and 

The Observer Friday, April 15, 1983 -page 7 
Nicaraguan exiles 
Reagan disputes aid to rebels 

WASHINGTON(AP)-President Reagan, disputing accusations by the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee and others in Congress, declared yesterday that 'We are not doing anything to try and overthrow the Nicaraguan government." 
But Reagan refused to say whether arms or supplies wee bing provided to Nicaraguan exiles across the border in Honduras. 
At a brief news conference, the president said the United States is complying with the law, which bans secret aid to Nicaraguan rebels for the purpose of overthrowing the leftist regime. 
"We are complying with the law -the Boland amendment, which is the law -we are complying with that fully," the president insisted. 
Asked if he would not like to see the Nicaraguan regime overthrown, Reagan said, "What I might personal­ly wish-or what our government might wish -still would not justify us violating the law ofthe land." 
Pressed to say that he was doing nothing to overthrow the govern­ment of Nicaragua, Reagan replied: "No, because that would be violat­ing the law." 
He said the United States merely was trying to cut off the flow ofarms from Nicaragua to leftist rebels trying to topple the U.S.-backed government in El Salvador. 
Senior Informal planned 
By GRETCHEN PICHLER 
NeuosS.taff 
Everyone has heard of the Senior Formal, but how about the Senior In­formal? Plans are currently being made by co-chairmen Teresa Sawaya and Mark Rolfes for an informal, activity-filled weekend in Chicago sometime next fall for seniors. 
The event is designed so that groups can go and have a fun weekend in Chicago with their friends, rather than being a strictly couple-oriented activity. 
"The Senior Formal is a great idea," explained Sawaya, "but the expense has caused attendance to drop. We plan to offer the oppor­tunity to go and have a good time for under HOO. Maybe this way, more people can go." 
Although there is not yet an offi­cial schedule. several possibilities have been suggested. A tentative itinerary will begin Thursday, with a Pre-Celebration Happy Hour. The group will then meet in Chicago by S p.m., and several suggested eve­ning activities will be available. Op· tions include going to a Sox game, going to dinner and to the Second City Comedy Club, or seeing a play. These events should be over around 
11. when those interested could re­group and "bar-hop." 
Saturday will he left open, Sawaya said, as a day to shop, visit museums, or go on a tour of Chicago, which will hopefully be offered at various times throughout the afternoon. 
The group hopes to rent a res­taurant for Saturday night. and then conclude the evening with a party aboard a yacht. Sawaya and Rolfes hope that the weekend will be the weekend of the Miami/Notre Dame football game. If televised, the game will be shown on a large-screen TV aboard the yacht. 
Juniors should "be expecting an informal questionnaire as to what they'd like." said Sawaya. "We'll need input." 
The date for the Senior Informal is tentatively set for the weekend of September 2-t. 
Rep. Edward P. Boland, D-Mass., of democratic elections, none ofwhich the House Intelligence Committee, have taken place ..." said Wednesday the administration Reagan said it was the Carter ad­apparently had violated the law by ministration that withdrew providing covert aid to Nicaraguan American aid to Nicaragua "long rebels. "The evidence is very before we were here when it strong," said Boland. became apparent that the govern­
Reagan refused to categorically ment had become completely Marx­say the United States is not arming or ist, had turned away and thrown out supplying rebels along the the some of the democratic groups that Honduran-Nicaraguan border. "I had supported them and fought with could not and would not possibly them in the revolution to bring talk about such things," Reagan said. democracy to Nicaragua ..." 
He said the controversy surround­He said another reason for the ing Nicaragua "is ignoring some fund cutoff was that the Nicaraguan realities -that the Nicaraguan government had violated its pledge government is a revolutionary not to attempt to overthrow any government that took power by other governments in Central force but with the promise of America, particularly El Salvador. 
------~---__.. ---~---------------~~­
The Observer Friday, April 15, 1983 -page 8 
New Orleans phones 
Floods, $2 fuse cause breakdown 
NEW ORLEANS (AP)-Aflooded tance calls through Slnallcr phone An emergency diesel-powered basement and the failure ofa S2 fuse offices in cases ofemergency, which generator, test-run only two days crippled the long distance telecom-is not now possible, Ammon said. before, automatically started but munications system of this city for On Thursday, April 7, an intricate shut itself off 43 minutes later when 10 hours last week and severed its system of backups failed. The worst­the oil overheated. link with a nuclear attack warning case scenario unfolded. An electrical fuse the size of a system. South Central Bell Telephone's cigar had blown and fans used to 
The breakdown demonstrated the S12 million long-distance switching cool the engine oil never started, vulnerability of centralized computer, called a 4ESS, had to be said T.E. Lindsey, operations telephone systems in 90 U.S. cities shut down, knocking out 30,000 manager for AT&T Long Lines in where similar computer switching telephone circuits into and out of New Orleans. The engine could not machines sit in guarded, windowless southeastern Louisiana. Some of the be restarted until the oil cooled. buildings, according to AT&T offi-circuits carried high-level govern-The second backup system, huge dais. ment traffic, Ammon said. 
batteries kept on an upper floor, The core of the log-distance The FAA airport control tower became the power source for the telephone system -a computer • lost its computer link to Houston building and its vital switching carrying thousands of circuits, and outlying towers. Shipping equipment. including priority government lines operations were paralyzed. The 
Meanwhile, tecunicians at the 
-has survived floods, hurricanes, mayor could not telephone the 
Network Operations Center in New 
tornados and blackouts across the governor. 
Jersey watched their floor-to-ceiling
country. And for 3 hours and 56 minutes, 
operations map for signs of trouble. 
But when l 1 inches of rain southeast Louisiana was cut off from 
AT&T told the Defense Communica­
brought widespread flooding to the National Warning System which 
tions Agency there was trouble i? 
Louisiana, the system failed. alerts the public to nuclear attack or New Orleans. 
"I've never been through a set of accidental missile launch. The 
Conference calls were set up
circumstances like that and I Federal Emergency Management 
among engineers on the scene, in Il­
thought I'd seen everything," said Agency office in Baton Rouge, La, 
linois, New Jersey and Alabama.
Art Ammon, manager of the Net-used single-band radio backup to 
Technicians from Birmingham, Ala., 
work Operations Center at AT&T keep in touch with New Orleans. 
headed to New Orleans by private
headquarters in Bedminster, N.j. "That old radio came before jet.
"We've never had anything quite television, satellite and this devastating." microwave-but it works when 
At 9:30 a.m. CST, voltage in the Technology and centralization everything else is out," said AI Ben­
!batteries began to drop. The Net­have made telephone systems more nett, FEMA state communications 
work Operations Center decided efficient but also more vulnerable to and warning officer. He called the 
that to save the computer, the long­floods, $2 fuses, and terrorism or warning system's four-hour outage. 
distance switching system had to be shut down along with three smaller
nuclear attack, according to Am-"extremely rare. I can't think of mon. when a circuit has been dpwn that switchers handling local service for 70,000 telephones in the business
"There is concern on the part of long." government -and it's probably a The airport contro ower also used district. legitimate one about the a single-band radio to contact Hous­"We made the decision, and it was reliability of the communications ton for clearance to let planes take a reluctant one, to take the central switch network," Ammon said. off from New Orleans. office equipment off line to save 
"It's a fact that if you lose one of It all began with heavy rains flood-those batteries," Ammon said. South those control units, as we did last ing the basement of South Central Central Bell's initial reaction was _As day tu~s to dusk in New York City, an 84-foot balloon of week, that some critical lines are Bell's 16-story computer building in that they could get the power back, Kmg Kong clmgs to the top ofthe Empire Staff Building Wednes­
going to be lost." downtown New Orleans. Officials he said, but "we had to persuade day. It ~as inflatedby workmenfrom theRobertKeith Company of AT&T and the government are cut commercial power to the build­them rather forcefully that that San Drego to celebrate the 50th anniversary• of the original King studying ways to switch long dis-ing before dawn. would be too late." Kong movie. 


Friday April15 and Saturday April16 Stepan Center 
TICKETS & TIMES 
7:30 PM Friday (features Judge's Jam) . ..... ~&5.00 
Judges for this year's festival are
1:00 PM Saturday ...................-.. $3.00 
Ron Carter, Tony Williams, Wynton Marsalis, 
6:30 PM Saturday .......................$4.00 
Branford Marsalis, Jim McNeely, and Dan Morgenstern. 
All Session Pass (ND;SMC) ............... $7.50 
Also featuring bands from 
Reduced Prices for Lil' Sibs with registration card. 
Eastman School of Music, Loyola University of New Orleans, 
Tickets sold at S.U. Record Store and at the door. 
Northeastern Illinois, Ohio State and Many other schools. 
Editorials 
Friday, April 15, 1983 -page 9 
Admissions ignores equal access 
1972 was the first year women were ad­mitted to Notre Dame, but the trend toward true co-education is still continuing. Of the 1 775 freshman who will be enrolled in the fall of this year, only 500 of them will be women. The reason for such a small number is be­cause Notre Dame imposes a rigid quota sys­tem as to the male-female composition of the University. 
RandyFahs 
Friday Analysis 
This quota system is discriminatory to the women who apply to Notre Dame. The female enrollment stands at 28 percent ofthe student body, but women make up 35 percent of the pool of applicants. Women applicants face a more highly competitive admissions process than their male counterparts. 
The result of this competition is that the average female Notre Dame student is a more qualified applicant than the average male Notre Dame student. Ifwe look at the top half of this year's freshman class, the difference becomes apparent. The average male in this group had an SAT score in the mid to upper 1200s and fmished in the top 10 percent ofhis high school graduating class. The average female in this group had an SAT score of around 1300 and finished in the top 1 percent of her high school graduating class. In other words, Notre Dame is turning away some women who have better qualifications than some of the men who are being accepted. 
The first thing that comes to mind about this situation is that this lis unethical and il­legal. While its moral imp.lications are highly suspect, it is fully in accordance with the law. Notre Dame is granted an exemption from having equality in access to admissions, with respect to sex, because of when it began 
ENTRANCE. MEN 
0 
':. 

admitting women for the first time. The law 
allows a university which turned co-ed in 
1972 or later to maintain male-female quotas 
as long as its physical plant is unable to handle 
equal access between men and women. 
By claiming that it doesn't have enough 
dorm space, Notre Dame can maintain its dis­
criminatory practices. The easy solution 
would be to build more women's dormitory space or admit fewer men and convert already existing halls. Notre Dame states that it is committed to maintaining an undergraduate population at its present number of 7300. That eliminates one option, but the other is highly unpopular. 
Studies have estimated that equal access in 
admissions would mean a male-female ratio of 
60-40. If you add in the 1800 women at Saint 
Mary's, the ratio is almost equal. To reach the 
natural percentages, Notre Dame will have to 
admit 200 fewer men and 200 more women 
each year. This seems ethically sound and 
equitable, but it would create a good deal of 
furor. If you are a male, ask yourself this: "If 
equal access means that you wouldn't have 
been accepted, and that a girl would be ad· 
mitted in your place, would you still support 
it?" 
The administration has recognized the problem and according to the PACE report a committee will be set up during the 1983-84 year to evaluate the co-educational ex· perience and the question of equal access in admissions. If the University decides to admit fewer men and more women, then they will have to put up with any resulting backlash. If instead they decide to raise the under· graduate enrollment above 7300, then J6-S8 million will have to be raised to build more women's dorm space. The worst move would be to make no move and continue to dis­criminate against women, a situation which is morally and ethically incompatible with 
Notre Dame ideals. 
£NTRANC,. 
WOMEN 

P. 0. BoxQ 
often learned prior to sexual development, steps toward making our society a place some have certainly been legitimately
Reasons for so even persons who could not possibly be where rape cannot so easily exist. clever or humorous. I remember a previous inviting sexual interest may be perceived Stephen Horst year when a team chose the name "Bye" and systematically as doing so.) Once such an in· won a game when the other team failed to
rape myths 
terpretation is admitted, it is easy enough to show up (naturally). To call for replacing all DearEditor: understand the myth: "Persons who build team names with numbers eliminates an es­
Names)
I very much appreciated Mary Ellen Ster· strong sexual expectations and then sential part of Bookstore Basketball. After nitzke's letter, "Male myths about rape." It frustrate them must face tht: consequences." not numbers viewing the names in the Bookstore effectively suggested the extent to which The falsity of the myth and its obvious schedule, I believe The Observer (and-or the myth about rape permeates our environ­(once exposed) fallacies do not undermine DearEditor: administration) overreacted. ment, and how it creates a milieu in which its intelligibility, given the hermeneutical I would like to comment on jane Healey's If Miss Healey's intent was to initiate a rape is apt to take place. key. article, "Team 289 vs. Team 176," regarding dialogue over the problem ofBookstore Bas­
What Ms. Sternitzke does not do -and I suggest that examination ofpossible ex­the names of Bookstore Basketball teams. ketball names, she may have succeeded. what I have seen very few people do -is periential motivations of this and other She is wrong in suggesting numbers be used Where she failed is in suggesting all team examine the factors which might motivate destructive myths will do more than any to replace team names. Granted some teams names be replaced with numbers. these "male myths" (some of which are amount of rhetoric in yielding practical have gone overboard in being rude, but Michael K. Shanley shared by many women). Presumably, people do not believe these "myths about rape" simply because these are things they have heard -for a · myth to become 
entrenched it must explain or agree with ex­perience. Myths are intelligible if one pos· sesses the proper hermeneutical key; and it is arguable only through understanding destructive myths as motivated by ex­perience that we shall be able to root them out or replace them with more agreeable al­ternatives. 
Consider the myth that women who are raped "were asking for it." Obviously this is not even intended to be applied to cases in which the assailant attacks the first passerby; and in any case, the rapist usually knows his victim. But how are we to understand the myth in cases where it is applied? I think the key to this myth may be the fact that we humans respond (by nature or condition­ing) to certain "sexual cues". But the person who exhibits them (whether male or female) often does so unconsciously, with no intent to convey sexuality. Yet the ob­server improperly interprets such cues as sexual receptivity. When the person giving the "cues" indicates lack of interest, she is 
perceived as a "tease", as not delivering what his-her behavior had "promised." (Behavior patterns such as coquetry are 

lhe~r====~==== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials .-epresent the opinion ofa majority oftJ:te Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside CoAumn depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, .and the free expression ofvarying opinionson. campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239·5303 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic SaintMary'sEditor...............Anne Monastyrski Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi ExecutiveEditor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Production/Graphtcs........... Joseph Musumeci NewsEditor.................................Mark Worscheh Photo Editor......................................:SCoti Bower 
Department Managers 
Business Manager··············-·······Daniel O'Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Controller.............•..............................Alex Szilvas SystemsManager ...........................Bruce Oakley AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 

Celebrating its 25th -CJ
A touch of whimsey 
I
fl weren't a priest, I wouldn't have to take the questions about God and the CathoHc Church so seriously. Yesterday, I spent the whole day defending the Church against the garbage being tossed by religious rednecks. Arguing against ignorance seems such a waste of time. For my money, the Catholic Church is the plough horse of grace and decency that became visible and available to the world in the life ofthe Lord Jesus. Sleeker horses come racing down the fast track, their jockeys hurling abuse at faithful old Dobbin. I wouldn't bet my money on them. Like the polo ponies belonging to rich men, they turn out to be somebody's hobby. Hobby horses were never promised that the gates ofhell should not prevail against them. 
The glibness of religious people annoys me. Without blinking an eye, they will tell you: "Christ is the answer." How easily we trivialize God. Some Christians use their Bible as their textbook on life, and the textbook says that the answer is Christ. Look at the faces 
Rev. Robett GtJHin 
l•tt•ts to a lonely god 
ofthe Bible-reading Christians seen on teleision; the followers ofJer· ry Falwell, for example. Does anything about them suggest that they have ever been faced with life's tough questions? Christ is their answer because they use Him as a tranquilizer. Christ, if you believe Him, could turn your life upside down. Who, among the Falwell crowd, has never spun nor toiled? Do they look like Solomon in all his glory? 
The young and beautiful grow old and sick. Children die in their infancy. They hung jesus on nails until He gave up the ghost. 
The conventional Christian murmurs of Easter. 
Hell, man, in the ghetto, in the hospital, in the Third world, in the depth of my soul, it's still Good Friday. 
The Bible says: "Without the sheddingofblood, there is no remis· sion ofsin." Jimmy Swaggart, the evangelist, says that ifJesus hadn't died as the sacrificial lamb on the altar ofthe Cross, He couldn't save one ofus. He could raise us from the dead, or cure our blindness, but His mo!>"t powerful miracle couldn't ease us into heaven. 
•
When you remember what happened to Him, Christ is the problem, not the answer. Why did God have to let them dump on His son? Why do bad things happen to good people? 
Milton wrote "Paradise Lost," as he tells us, "to assert Eternal Providence, and justify God's ways to man." Housman says: "Malt does more than Milton can/ To justify God's way to man." Maybe malt is the answer, or, ifyou prefer, Manhattans. Malt can change the picture ofthe world you carry in your head. Laughter too can alter your perceptions. Life should never be so grim that you can't laugh at it. Under all the hardships, there's a joke here somewhere. 
Ifl didn't believe in God, nothing else would make sense. I don't understand the chemistry by which babies are formed, nor the direc· tion the journey takes when the breathing has stopped. Breath is a marvel, and love isa mystery, and April rain is a gift from the sky. Yet even the ordinary miracles come from a mystery that they keep as their secret. St. Augustine asks: "What do I love when I love my God?" The beauty and good ofcreation can move me to love God, 
but it is no part ofcreation that I love in loving God. 
Augustine writes: "I asked the earth .. .I asked the sea, the 
depths ...and they replied: 'We are not your God. Look above 
us.' .. .I asked the sky, the sun, the moon, the stars, and they said: 
'Neither are we the God whom you seek.' And I said to all these 
things ...:'You have told me concerning my God that you are not 
He. Tell me something about Him.· With a loud voice they cried out: 
'He made us.' My questioning was my looking upon them, and their 
reply was their beauty." 
In 627 A.D. a monk, Paulinus, journeyed to northern England to persuade King Edwin on the adoption ofChristianity. The king lis· tened to the monk'swords about Christ and then called together his elders. One ofthem said: "Your majesty, you sit at table with your lords in the winter when the fire burns warm and bright on the hearth. Outside the wind is howling, bringing the storm and rain. It happens that suddenly a little bird flies into the hall, coming in one doorway and out the other. For the few minutes that it is inside the hall, it does not feel cold. But as soon as it leaves your sight, it returns to the dark of winter. It seems to me that the life of man is much the same. We do not know what happens before and we do not know what follows. Ifthe new teaching can tell us with certainty ofthese things, it is well that we follow it." 
It seems presumptuous to try to speak with authority of the dark· ness that wraps around our lives more protectively than a nest shelteringan egg. I hope I sound less infallible than some of the preachers who would play pope. Maybe they know more than I do, but I doubt it. The journey to God is a lonely one. We travel without maps, and we fly blind. The grace ofGod leads us home. We'll know that it's home when we get there. For myself, when I get panicky about directions, I feel comfortable following the tracks left in the­road by an old work horse pulling a plough. 
It's probably no compliment to the Church to compare it to a horse. I spent all day yesterday taking the Church seriously. Even a priest is entitled to a day~ off, when he can speak ofthe things ofGod with a touch ofwhimsey. 
T
his weekend marks the 25th anniversary of the Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival, the oldest continous collegiate jazz festival in America. Stepan Center will host this tradition Fridav and Saturday. 
Batty F. Hebett 

This year's festival features some of the best jazz talent in the entire country, including that offive jazz greats: Wynton and Branford Mar­salis, Tony William~. Ron Carter andJim McNeely. Dan Mor­genstern, Director of the Institute ofJazz Studies at Rutgers Univer­sity will join these five in judging the competing jazz groups. 
fifteen big bands and combos 
from twelve different universities 
and colleges around the country in 
participating at the competition. 
During the three sessions of the 
two day festival, the bands will vie 
for group and individual awards to 
be presented Saturday night. Past 
festival competitors who have ac­
hieved greater fame in the world of 
jazz include David Sanborn, Bob James, Randy and Michael Brecker, James Pankow and Chico Freeman. The first session of the 1983 
Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Fes· 
rival opens this evening at 7:30 
p.m. Following a performance by the host Notre Dame Big Band are the Northeastern Illinois Univer· sity Combo, Michigan State Uni· versity Big Band, Virginia Commonwealth University Big Band, and the Ohio State Univer· sity Big Band. Topping off the eve· ning will be the "JudgesJam" at 11:30 p.m. featuring Wynton and Branford Marsalis, Tony Williams, Jim McNeely and Ron Carter. 
The second session, on Saturday afternoon, begins at 12:30 pm. The Texas Southern University Big Band opt.·ns the session, after which the Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology Jazz Ensemble, Notre Dame Combo, and the Fredonia College Big Band per· form. The Purdue University Big Band closes this session. 
This year's festival closes with a session on Saturday at 6:30p.m. 

Btanfotd & Wynton ffiatsalis 
with performances by the winners of the high school division of the festival. The Northeastern Illinois University Jazz Ensemble, the Eastman School of Music Combo -"Saxology," are also featured Saturday. Rounding off the fes· tival's silver anniversary program is the big band from Loyola Univer· sity in New Orleans, The Cincin· nati Conservatory ofMusic Combo and the Eastman School of Music Big Band. The judges' remarks and the presentaton ofvarious awards will follow the final group's perfor-
From humble beginnings . .. 
B
ill Graham, chairman of the first Notre Dame Col· legiateJazz Festival in 1959, writes on the origins of the oldest, biggest, and best known CollegiateJazz Fes· tival in the nation: "The concept ofthe festival was ac· tually the product ofa small bull session including Tom Cahill and myself. At first, it was to be a showcase for Notre Dame talent only. But our thinking soon broadened to include all collegiate jazz musicians in a "Newport"·like setting." 
To make their idea a reality, they sought the assis· tance ofCharles Suber, publisher ofDown Beat magazine, and Frank Holzfiend, owner of the Blue Note jazz club in Chicago. After much planning and hard work, the stage was set, and on April I 1, 1959, fifteen 
SObWebet 

bands from Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, and Minnesota 
gathered in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse for the first an· 
nual Notre Dame CollegiateJazz Festival. The best of 
these bands, as chosen by judges: Suber, Holzfiend, 
Robert Trendier, and jazz accordionist Art Van Dam me. 
The Festival was a success, and at its conclusion the 
U.JW Quartet ofMinnesota walked away with first place 
honors. 
From these humble beginnings, the CFJ grew at an 
astonishing rate -which was exactly what its 
originators had hoped for. The prologue to the first C)F 
program began with the following statement: "From an 
embryonic idea has grown what may well become, 
within the span ofa few short years, the ultimate in col· 
legiate jazz competition." C)F '83, the silver anniversary 
celebration ofa jazz tradition, serves as proof that 
Graham, Cahill, et al. did not aim to high. The Notre 
Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival has indeed become "the 
ultimate in collegiate jazz competition.'' 
In fact, the first CJF met with such acclaim that the second annual CollegiateJazz Festival, had no trouble at· at all lining up bands or judges. C)F '60 attracted not fif. teen but TWENTY-SIX bands and combos. The prizes included not only cash, but also instruments, scholar· ships provided by Down Beat magazine, bookings for the top groups, and a two-week gig for the winning 
combo at Holzt1end's Hlue Note. The judgmgcorps was expanded to five members, including Holzfiend, Suber, Robert Share, the administrator ofthe Berkley School of Music, jazz commentator for the Voice ofAmerica Wil· lis Conover, and jazz great Stan Kenton, who flew to South Bend from Los Angles and began judgingafter on· ly two hours ofsleep. Kenton did not seem to mind the inconvenience, however, and when CFJ '60 had con· eluded he billed it as "the most magnificent, clean cut, swingin' affair I've ever attended." In just t\vo short years, the Notre Dame CJF had gained the reputation it still carries today -it is a forum presenting the best in collegiate jazz. 
The Festival continued to grow. It had made a name for itself, and it continued to live up to the high stan· dards it had set. C)F was run as a contest between bands until 1967, when some major changes took place. That year, a national jazz festival was to take place in Miami Beach, featuring winning bands from regional festivals. The directors ofthis festival had hoped to use C)F as one of their regional festivals, but Notre Dame refused, maintaining that "our interests as well as those ofour participants would best be served by remaining an inde· pendent leader in collegiate jazz." In 1967, the spirit of competition was de-emphasized and the event became more ofa true festival, at which bands from across the country could display their talent. Particularlyoustand· ing performances were still recognized, however. 
1967 also marked a change in the judging staff. Previously, C)F judges had been primarily critics or in· structors; in 1967 a trend began in which more perfor· mers were chosen to be judges. The now-famous "Judges' Jam," in which the judges get a chance to dis· play their talents, was begun in that year. It is now an· ticipated as one ofthe highlights ofthe Festival. 
Another important change which took place in 1967 was the institution of the High School Festival, run in conjunction with C)F but featuring high school bands. It has been attended by groups from as far away as Nevada, Maryland, and Alabama. 
But it is the spotlighted college talent which remains the biggest draw. Over the years, college jazz bands from twenty-nine states have participated in the Fes· tival. From Maine to California, from Texas to Min· nesota, talented college musicians gather in South Bend each spring to perform their art at "first and still foremost" collegiate jazz festival in the world. 
The Observer Features s~~ction 
Friday, April 15, 1983 -page 11 
is 'still first and foremos~t' 
mance. 
Besides all of the young jazz talent to be experienced this weekend, the festival's judges are a highlight in themselves. These jazz greats are among the most prominent and influential in the jazz scene today. Each year, this university has the honor offeatur­ing these artists in the traditional "JudgesJam." In the past, the "JudgesJam" has featured such outstanding jazzmen as Herbie 
Hancock, Freddie Hubbard, "Cannonball" Adderly. Bill Tayor and Herb Ellis. Audiences should expect no less from this year's "Jam." 
Twenty-one year old Wynton Marsalis is one ofthisyear's judges. A native of New Orleans, he began playing trumpet at an early age. AI Hirt gave Marsalis his first trumpet when he was six, but he didnt become completely serious about it until he was I2. After that there was no stopping him. He ac­cumuated a variety ofprestigious awards before and during his high school years. At 18, Wynton en­
.tered the Julliard School of Music. Before long he took a leave of 
1 
abscence fromJulliard to join Art 
· Blakey and the Jazz Messengers, and eventually signed a contract with Columbia Records. Later he left Art Blakey to perform in a six­week festival and concert with the Herbie Hancock Quartet. During this time he recorded his debut al­bum entitled W:vnton Marsalis. 
He leads his own quintet which includes his brother, Branford. The quintet basically plays in NewYork and has toured Europe and the states many times. Wynton Mar­salis was hailed by the Reader's Poll ofDown Beat magazine as the jazz album ofthe year ( 1982). This album which also features Bran­ford, Herbie Hancock, Ron Carter, and Tony Williams is still high on the jazz charts as well asFather 
and Swons which features Wyn­ton, Branford, and their father Ellis (a magnificent jazz pianist). As for Wynton, Carter puts it best, "Wynton Marsalis is the most remarkable musician to appear on the scene in quite some time. He is intelligent, witty, studious, down 
to earth and an incredible player." It should also be noted that al­though Wynton and Branford are probably younger than some ofthe participants in the festival, their capabilities should not be underes­timated. 
Branford Marsalis at age 22, only 13 months older than Wynton, is an excellent and quite prominent saxophonist on today's jazz scene. Branford also won numerous awards during his high school career for his playing. In his early college years at Southern and 
Berkley Universities, his 
popularity continued to grow. He 
toured a short time with Lionel 
Hampton and later decided to join 
Wynton on his tour with Art 
Blakey and theJazz Messengers. 
Now, he tours with The Wynton 
Marsalis Quintet. Considering his 
dedication to the saxophone, it is 
just possible that he will remain a 
most influential jazz saxophonist 
long into the future. 
Both Branford and Wynton share many ofthe same conceptual ideas ofja~z. Their assertiveness and perception ofhow jazz should be performed has made them very influential in the jazz world. Thev have such domineering per-. sonalities and are such excellent performers and composers, that I believe they will continue new trends in the jazz scene and expect that they will eventually become a major part of jazz history. 
The third judge is Tony Wil­liams, witout a doubt one ofthe most influential drummers in con­temporary music for the past two decades. Achild prodigy, Williams. 
COLLEGIATE JAll. FESTIVAL 

'"""" ~~Qo•" 'XI ·~oo
-..-.-•6•130 •UXI 
-.......-•eelO ••011 
...--·•oo ·•~JCI~ 
toured with the Miles Davis Quin­tet as a child for six years. His drumming flourished and even­tually he decided to form his own group at age 23. Since then he has recorded many albums with many 
early and contemporary jazz greats. In 1979 he was chosen as the Down Beat Readers Poll win­ner. He served as a judge in the 
1980 CollegiateJazz Festival and now returns this year for another spectacular performance. 
Ron Carter, the 1982 Down Beat Reader's Poll winner in the acoustic bass category, has an ex­tensive background in jazz history 

DCAn morgenstetn 
and is a very well known jazz bas­sist. He has done everything from teaching to writing books to performing. In recording his performing credits, it looks like a jazz hall offame roll call. This is his first involvement with Notre Dame's festival. 
Jim McNeely, a well respected pianist in jazz circles, holds the dis­tinction of being one ofthe few judges to have also been a com­petitor in the festival. He was also a judge in 1981. McNeely's most recent work includes an album recorded with saxophonist Stan Getz. His performances at the piano will surely prove to be ex­tremely entertaining. 
Dan Morgenstern, a judge at thirteen previous CollegiateJazz Festivals, is a former editor of Down Beat Magazine and is a high­ly respected jazz critic. Although he will not be performing, Mor­genstern's presence as a prominent jazz critic will be felt nonetheless. 
Obviously, the judges are as spectacular a feature as all of the performing bands. With so many giants in the jazz field on one campus in one weekend one can not help but get swept up in the spirit. Ticket prices are: $5 for the Friday evening session (which in­cludes the "JudgesJam"), $3 for the Saturday afternoon session, and S4 for the concluding session on Saturday evening. Passes for all three sessions are available for $8 for the general public and $7.50 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 


•THEATRE 
This weekend, as swarms ofcherished little brothers and sisters begin to arrive from their various homes around the country, the campus will be crawling with kids. For those people who feel the need to get away from it all, the South Bend Civic Theatre is continu­ing its run of"Morning's at Seven" tonight, tomorrow and Sunday nights at 8:30p.m. in the Firehouse th~atre. Ticket information is available by calling 233-0683 or 234-5696, and reservations are advised. 
•DANCE 
Lil' sibs who like the performing arts might want to tag along to Saint Mary's for "The Dances ofIsadora Duncan." This dance, per­formed by Kathleen Quinlan-Krichels, will be held in O'Laughlin Auditorium tonight at 8:00p.m. Call 284-4626 to reserve tickets. 
•MUSIC 
This is a weekend for music, with the highlight event being the Collegiate Jazz Festival, a series ofconcerts at Stepan Center by several guest bands. For more information call Eric Kuehner at 239­6201. 
At Saint Mary's, the fifth annual Festival ofNew Music is presenting a concert ofVincent Persichetti's music in the Little Theatre. The recital will begin at 8 p.m. on Sunday and admission is free. · 
On a slightly smaller scale, Don Oehler will be giving a clarinet recital in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum on Satur­day at 4 p.m. Also on Saturday, Dexter Thibodeaux, a graduate stu­dent, will play the organ at Sacred Heart Church at 8:15p.m. For more information about either of these events, call 239-6201. 
•ART 
The artistic talent of Notre Dame students will be demonstrated this Sunday at the Snite Museum, where, from 1 p.m. to 4p.m., the NO Art Department is opening the Annual Student Exhibition. 
•MOVIES 
For people who want nothing more than the good old standby, movies, the usual will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium for Sl: "Brian's Song," Friday at 7, 9:15 and 11:30, and "Stripes," Satur­day at 7, 9 and 11 p.m. And for the Friday Night Film Series, "Montenegro" will play at the Annenberg at 7:30 for S2. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
Lil' would-be archies or any other interested students might want to join the Architecture department for the Beaux Arts Ball, to be held in the Kinetics Architecture Building Saturday night at 9:30. Tickets, at S4 per person, must be bought in advance at the dining halls or LaFortune. 
Art exhibit 
"Ithink it's about the only way to let people know what's going on 
-to have exhibits. That's what being an artist is about," said · 
Tamera Mams, a senior printmaking major from Wytheville, Virginia. 
Mams is one ofthe many students who has entered the Annual Stu­
dent Exhibition which will open at the Snite Museum on Sunday, 
April 17, and continue until commencement week. Special opening 
presentations will be held from one to four o'clock at the Snite. 
C•cilia Luceto 

ponsored by the Art Department, t e Annu tu ent x 1 1t1on has been a Notre Dame tradition for nearly forty years. Individual student artworks, are placed into seven categories -which cor­respond to the seven art concentrations -and will be judged by a faculty panel, explained Professor Frederick Beckman, chairman of the Art Department. He added that awards will be given to those determined the "best ofworks." 
Participation in the Annual Student Exhibition had previously been limited to graduate Masters ofFine Arts students as part oftheir thesis program, Beckman said. Over the years, senior art students were also included. 
This year, due.to the fewer number ofgraduate students and seniorsentering their projects in the Exhibition, undergraduate stu­dents were invited to participate as well. 
"I'm glad it's open to everybody this year," Mams said. "As an art­ist, any kind ofparticipation in exhibits is good. When you get out (of school), you're going to show and sell work. The only way to do that is thfough galleries or museums." 
The following is the schedule ofopeningevents: Sunday, April 1 7: 
1:30 and 3:30 p:m. 
Abiogenesis Dance Collective in the Sculpture Court; 
Sunday, April 17: 4 p.m. 
Dan Oehler, clarinet concert in the Annenberg Auditorium. Refreshments will also be served. 
~~~()f4tS=L=~=r==i=e~S========~======================Fr=id=ay=,=Ap=r=il=Is=,=I9=B=3~p~ag~e~Iz
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Clubwm 
present Bob and Karen Gajda Sunday in the Center for Social Con­cerns at 7:00p.m.. Bob was the I965 Mr. USA, the I966 Mr. America, I967 Mr. Universe, and served as the strength coach for the I980 
U.S. Olympic volleyball team. His wife Karen is a two-time national powerlifting champion and a one-time world champion. Admission is free for all Weightlifting Club members and 52 for non-members. Any questions call Matt Kelleher at I 581. -The Observer 
The Women's Tennis Team defeated Bradley yesterday by the score of 9-0. The results were as follows: No. I Colligan won 6-I, 6-3; No.2 Lafratta won I-6, 6-3, 6-I; No.3 Gleason won 6-2, 7-5; Panther won 6-I, 6-2; No. 5 Lee won 6-0, 6-2; and No.6 Cooper won 6-2, 6-2. The team's spring record in spring play is 5-6. -The Observer 
The Holy Cross Softball Tournmentwill 
be played as scheduled despite the unfavorable weather conditions. Teams that do not show up at the scheduled times will forfeit. -The Observer 
The SaintMary'sSoftballTeambeat Bethel Col­
lege yesterday by the score of I8-I 7. Cathy Logsdon was the winning pitcher for the Belles who now have two wins and one loss this season. Trish Nolan paced the team with two singles, one double and two triples. The Belles' next game is tomorrow at Anderson where they will play a twinbill. The team will return home and play Hunington College on Monday. -The Observer 
continuedfrom page 20 
the size, speed, maturity and the football savy we are looking for. The thought ofBanks's arrival has helped Golic improve this spring. 
The interior defensive line posi­
tions remain up for grabs. The 
coaches are evaluating the flip tackle 
and contain tackle positions as inter­
changeable. The top players 
challenging for these two spots are 
sophomores Eric Dorsey and Greg 
Dingens and junior Mike Gann. 
Dorsey, 6-5, 255-pounds, saw limited playing time last fall. As a high school senior he was named one of the top I00 players by The 
Sporting News and was voted an 
Aclidas/Scholastic Coach prep All­
American. 
Dingens, 6-5, 230-pounds, was named one of the top 50 players by Football News and voted an Adidas/Scholastic Coach All­American. 
Gann, 6-5, 249-pounds, has the 
most experience among the can­
didates. He started I 0 games last fall at flip tackle and played in II games his freshman year. However, Gann is sitting out sprinng practice recover­ing from knee surgery. 
• "When Gann returns in the fall he will be evaluated on how he played in I982," says defensive line coach Jay Robertson. "He will return at first string, but he may be sharing it with Dorsey or Dingens or someone else. The starter will be determined in fall practices in head-to-head competition." 
Other challengers for the flip and contain tackle postions are seniors Jerry Weinle, 6-3, 238-pounds, and Steve Keane, 6-4, 258-pounds, junior Jay Underwood, at 6-5, 252­pounds, and freshman Wally Kleine, 6-8, 240-pounds. 
"Kleine is a sleeper in the battle for a starting position," notes Robertson. "He missed last season because of an injury and will retain freshman eligibilty. He is still learn­ing the defensive positons. He has great ability but needs to continue to improve." 
The most intense battle is at nose tackle. The returning starter is senior Jon Autry. He is being chal­lenged by junior Tim Marshall, who missed last season with a foot injury. 
Both Autry and Marshall have consideable experience. Autry started at nose tackle in I 0 games last fall. In I98I Autry started 8 games at the end position. In addi­tion Autry played in II games in his freshman campaign. 
"The competition is very in­tense," comments Robertson. "Autry is having a good spring and Marshall is readjusting after a one­year layoff. Both players realize they must continue to work hard the rest of this spring and over the summer. These two will battle for the starting spot all the way." 
"When it comes time to name a starting lineup in the fall," notes Blache, "I want to put the best four players on the field. In order to start, the players must continue to work this spring and return in the fall prepared to play.' 
• • • Line 
Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or through the mail.  
LOST(?): Whoever removed my rear 1 bdrm, unfurnished, $160 mo.-summer license plate, NH, 'DOMER' from my '77 sublet-must be marrie'd student. Call 2 Dodge in D-2, please put it back or return 3852.NOTICES it to 414 Keenan. My front plate was al­ready ·removed· so now I can't drive my Faculty or Grad Students. 4 Bedroom car. No questions asked. House, fully furn1shed w1th washer/dryer. Nice! $400/month. 288-3t09 IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR LOST: A white, After Six tuxedo jacket,$44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERK­freshly "borrowed" from the Palmer NEED A CHEAP PLACE TO STORE MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! House ballroom Saturday evenmg at the YOUR STUFF OVER THE SUMMER ? CALL (312) 742·1142, EXT. 7316. Senior Formal. Please return to 209 PLEASE CALL MARIE 277-0487 Alumm ( 1 072) and no quest1ons will be Typing ALL KINDS 277-8534 after 6pm asked. TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. LOST· Friday 4/8/83 a whrte conon WANTED spr1ng blazer at a Ftanner Happy Hr. If TYPING, Jackie Boggs, 684-8793. found please call Kathleen SMC-5536 GOING TO THE WINDY CITY THISTypmg, my home. Experienced in all FOUND ON SOUTH QUAD; Casio five­WEEEKEND? NEED A RIDER? I NEED phases of college typing. 277-3085. function watch. Has initials on the back. A RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS FRIDAY, Blue, w1th s1iver watchband. Call Marty at COMING BACK SUNDAY. CALL TOM EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL 1022. AT8737 YEAR. FLEXIBLE HOURS. MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS HELP--Damsel in d1stress! NEED RIDE TO LU. FOR UTILE FIVE­ON CAMPUS. BONUS BASED ON LOST· A white jacket at Lyons Court APR.22 JOE 1154 RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS Monday mght at 8:00p.m. WELL. 800-526-0883 If found please call 7975 Need A1de to Los Angeles area after ex­ams tO May. Will share usual. Must get to TYPING: $. 75/page. Fast & accurate. I lost an indoor/outdoor Spalding basket­sisters graduation. call TIM 6853 Call Dan, 282-I 680. ball at Stepan #3 on Tues. at about 4:30. The ball was brand spankin· new and a HELP! I need a nde to BALL LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: Camp g1ft. Please give Pat a call at 8625 if you STATE/MUNCIE thiS weekend!! Will out this weekend, April 16-17. Come Sat. took the ball by mistake or found it. share gas! Please call. Ray at 272-2531 btwn. 9·9:30 Return Sunday by 3:00. Any questions? Call E1ieen 2986 or Mary 8067 LOST one black Armitron watch, between HELP! RIDE NEDED TO ROCHESTERSee you there at CAMP OUT for a Stepan courts and the ACC. Please return OR VICINITY. CAN GO ANY WEEKEND. GREAT TIME!!! to Jim Cooney, St. ed·s hall... has great CALL TARA AT 7753. sentimental value .. Part time or Summer-Energy department WANTED: PUNK CLOTHES AND AC·Sales, Energy Auditing, L.S. Ayers 291­$40 REWARD! Green bookbag lost in CESSORIES FOR THEATRICAL 7700 Ext 2028 South Dimng Hall. Desperately need the PRODUCTION. WILL BEG, BORROW, contents to fimsh school -Please call Bob OR STEAL-WE ARE TOO CHEAP TO14k Gold or Sterling Chains resodered for 277-6880. &&& BUY. CALL 1884, AND ASK FOR HEAD $3.99 Returned Insured Mail Pablo's Anic LOONY.t 21.5 North Normal, II 61761 LOST: W1ison raquetbtl raquet in south dimng hall Tuesday mght. Please call 1 GOLDEN DOME hat OR 1nfo on how to ·!!!!! Eric "The Seexy Beast" Bode, a 6957 if found, or drop outside 260 Badin­get one · CALL MO SMC4412 meetaphys1cat Lif' Squid, known only as no questions"Bruce" to his seedy underwear under­Wanted: Backpacksworld cohorts, has had anothr birthday!!!! Do you have an extenor-frame backpack you would like to sell? Maybe two or~-~~-~~-~:.V.~~-Bru~~ v.ou!!!--~ov~.-~.. .. I three? Call Jeb, Jim, or J1m (but not Ed) at FOR RENT 8641. Thank you. \ 4LR_e_n_t_4_Be_d_r-oo_m_H_o_u_s_e_$_2_5_0_m_o___a_,llLOST/FOUND 1982 Female grad student look1ng for ..______________. utilitieS 1ncluded June or Sept. Call 319­roommate to share apt. 1n Chicago Please call (312) 687·8723 after 7 p.m. 322-8735 Pany $50 REWARD!!! Damel Hechter black WANTED Companion for coast-to-coastjacket with red inside. Lost in South Dining 902 N. NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS, b1cycle trip across the U.S. Start from Hall before Easter. Please call277-2222. FULLY FURNISHED, 9 MONTH LEASE, Oregon around May 22 9 to 10 weeks,NO QUESTIONS GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON need be only m1idly crazy. Call M1ke atHEAT. $335/MONTH 684-0933 (LOCAL 1582 Lost-Treasury cashier's check (ROTC). CALL) If found, please return to me so that I can Need nde to PURDUE F1i 4/22 call6781 get the new one before next year. (It's FREE RENT · House s1t for !acuity mem­been cancelled). Please call8332. ber. summer. 319-322-8735 Pat LOST: One Pair of Bronze/Brown metal 2 bedroom, Furnished apt to sublet 4 framed GLASSES. Lost in the vicinity of summer. Call284-4429 STANFORD lobby after the Mr. Stanford Contest on Friday Apnl 8. They have a 6 bedroom house 4rent completly USED, OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKShigh sentimental value being thai without furnised at 806 n stl01us also secUity BOUGHT, SOLD. SEARCHEDthem I cannot see!! If found please call or alarm system connected to pollee· for fur­ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E. WAYNEreturn them to Jim at 8708-07, 329-30 ther mformatlon calli 362-7160 excellent ONE BLOCK SOUTH" OF EDDY­Stanford. (REWARD) condition pnce negotiable. JEFFERSON INTERSECTION LOST: IN Sen1or Bar last Satuday night House to sub-let for summer. 3 or 4 House for sale: Un1vers1ty He1ghts. 3(4/9/83) " lightweight. navy blue jacket bedrooms. Fully furnished. 2 M1ies from bedrooms, $12,000 total lmmed1atewith NOTRE DAME BAND in yellow on campus, good neighborhood Rent nego-. Terms. 319-3228735. Patthe back and NO BAND OF THE FIGHT­liable. Call 239-7097. leave message for ING IRISH on front. If lound (You'll know Randy. For Sale 73 Honda CB175 Rec·d TLC whether rt belongs to you, or not) call New banery. new rear lire 10.000 m1JACK at 8876 or 8872. Summer School? Apts. for Rent near N.D. Utilities Pd. Less Gas ph.2720261 Runs like new 683-1 t:!2 (local) after 6 p.mlost: .1avy blue athletic bag w/ books, clothes, checkbook. Find any of above SUMMER RENT· 3 BDRM HOUSE, items w/ Fnsmo id call Mike,287-4046. NEXT TO CAMPUS, CHEAP CALL 8657 OA8676JOHN LOST: wallet lost .Thurs. nile at campus TICKETS view-southern section park1ng lot. No $$ 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, GOOD SAFE was in it, but there is a reward offered for AREA, FURNISHED, LIKE-NEW INTE· 1ts return. Call Mike 233-6068 if found RIOR. $400/ mo.& util MUST SEE. 287­NEED LOTS-0-TICKETS for gradua!lon· please. 3530 Day: 233-9947 Night ·please call John 287-42:!5  Please Help! Need One LOWER ARENA TICKET for GRADUATION EXERCISES --Will trade one upper arena t1cket or will buy. Please call Debbie at 234-7961 Thanks! PERSONALS EARN $5000 this summer pa1nting houses in your hometown. Contact Place­ment Office for more info and application at Room 213, Adm. Bldg. THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM COMES TO NOTRE DAMEIII The Notre Dame Stu· dent Players present the magic of MAN OF LA MANCHA. coming to the stage of Washington Hall on April 21, 22, and 23 at 8 p.m. Tickets go on sale Wednesday, April 13, at the Student Union ticket office. ST Prices are $3.50 in advance and $4 at the door There are only three nights th1s year. so get your t1ckets early: remember what happened to Cabaret tickets! Don't mise the best show of the season-MAN OF LA MANCHAIIII The Ark Is comingI He's coming -to a theater near you: Tom Marshalek. Ugliest Man on Campus 1983. MECHANICS QUIZ QUESTION #2: What Is the moment exerted In a gin and tonic by a lime twist? AUCTION Notre Dame Security will be hold1ng an auct1on on Saturday, April 16, at 11 a.m. The auction will be held at Gate t t of the Football Stad1um. Property to be auc­tioned will include bicycles, watches, and other miscellaneous uncla1med found property. LIL SIBS UL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS BUY YOUR LIL SIB A UL SIBS WEEKEND T ·SHIRT ON SALE AT BOTH DINING HALLS DURING DINNER HOURS UNTIL FRIDAY COSTIS$5 00 LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS DEAR PC FOR YOUR BIRTHDAY. I'D LIKE THE CHANCE TO SAY TWO THINGS FIRST, HAPPY BIRTHDAY !I SECOND, I KNOW THAT THE SUMMER WILL BE LONG, BUT DO NOT FEAR THE MEMORIES THAT I HAVE OF US WILL NOT FADE AS FAST AS YOU MAY THINK. HAVE FAITH, PC, AND THE ONE THAT YOU SET FREE WILL COME BACK TO YOU LOVE, T BEAR Are you an aspiring Charles Schulz, Gar­ry Trudeau, Jeb Cashin? Do you have un­discovered humorous artistic talent just begging to grace the Today Page of The Observer? Would you like to be an Ob­server strip (in the comic sensa) car­toonist? The Observer is looking for campus comic strips for next year. If you have the talent, we have the paper. Sub­mit examples to: The "Yes, I want to be rich and famous" cartoon contest, Managing Editor, The Observer, P 0. Box Q. Questions? Call Margaret, 239­5313. Beth Hackett lor UMOCIIII  COME PLAY QUARTERS AT ANTOS­HEY YOU CATFISHEs--E.C. is not the TAL. .. MORE INFO COMING!!! least of your problems. Bener worry about de FROG (he's meaner than Commander SODOM AND GOMORRAHI Salamander h1mself). When you least ex­Party pect ~. expect rt!!! Saturday Night Live Band (Noblet) What dld Mike Doonesbury and Mark 1406 South Bend Avenue Slackmeyer lind In their search lor Be there ...everyone else will America? I don't know either, but 1 want to ·rrnd out. See the WANTED ad Thinking of going to the NUMBER ONE for bicycling compenlon. baaeball town Is anyone Interested 1n go~ng to ST. LOUIS lor the weekend of JEANIE POOLE April 22-24? I really need the nders, must To the only girl w1th more fans than the celebrate my 21st 1n style. Call Diane at football team-Congrats on fmal 15! t al­7983 ways knew you could do 11 you Queen of improvisation. HEY!!! CAITY MEANEY sister of Jim, G1ve ·em hell tonight! welcome to NO! We hope you have a EAM greatt1me. Love, JM and The V-Woman. JEANIE POOLE JEANIE POOLE, Good luck tomght. We are all pulling for you. NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S From your fnends 1n Room 214. STUDENTS Do you have a pen and a sense of humor? THE OBSERVER is looking for campus comic strips for next Get the Porn out of the libranes! year. Send examples ofyour strip ideasto: Managing Editor, The Observer, P. 0. BoxQ. I SPIT IN THE MILK OF YOUR LITTLE BIRD, FRANK-O Gene Boes Everyone's favorite ROTC is lry1ng to reach his potential with UMOC Do you work for thiS fine example of modern colleg1ate journalism? If so, youJuliet Will probably be interested 1n anendingWe can make 11. I love you very much. The Observer Stall Forum fl. If you have Romeo complaints. questions or suggestions for ps. Go ahead and yell. The Observer come and tell us. Tuesday, April 19 at 7 p m. in the LibraryTherese, IS it love or IS it Chorale? Audttonum. Refreshments Will be served afterwardsI come for lover I come for love! I come to Aldonza for love!!! Hello aga1n boys-so you d1dn·1 think the To the best room1e that anyonA could ever last one t put in was that funny huh? Well have asked for-­I Love You! Sure, it that just reflects how much you know hasn't always been easy; we·ve had our about humor. I'll try some new insults ups and downs· hut tt was sure worth N1ck-l've seen toothpicks With bener it!f'm really lookong forward to next bodies-Horndog-Why IS your girl calling year...Campus V1ew, look out-· THE me up? she·s trying to get to me through WILD WOMEN FROM 427 ARE ON you-what a waste! Gucct-can I have your THEIR WAY'!!! car? stereo? I'll just senle lor your cred1t cards----OK BYE----DWC. Kathy, Jack1e, and Susan. HEY CREW MAMAS-G1ve 11 all you've got Happy Howling aga1nst those M1nnesota m1dgets. GOOD The Italian LUCK!!!JA AHentlon Ham Radio Operators: TheWords are never helpful. .I try to tell you Notre Dame Amateur Rad10 Club w1llhow I feel and to say thank you--I hope I have an ··antenna ra1s1ng party· tomorrow get to see you one of these days, r really afternoon. For details call Derek at 8291. appreciate be1ng able to talk so openly with you...ll IS something that IS so hard to f1nd 1n others. So, don't forget me' If you Patnck McK1m Flood, you always could ever have a spare moment to say hello. tl spot a fnend. Welcome back would really mean a lot.. Love, L L. SWATCH, AWESOME JOB' GO FOR IT IN 84!! LOVE MOM AND DAD HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY, BeaUtiFul-· Love, JD Welcome to SMC/ND Cathy Donais Have a great t1me! TIM AEILL Y · HOW DOES IT FEEL TO K&M BE TEN YEARS OLD AGAIN ? HI M1chele! Mary Beth Will be accepting hugs and MICHAEL FORESMAN k1sses all day Sunday, Apnl 17 1n Room THANK YOU FOR THE UMBRELLA. 407 Farley. Come help MB celebrate her THE COMPANY. AND AN ALL-AROUND B1rthday!!! Have a great day. MBII Love, ENJOYABLE EVENING WE LL DODGE Your Roomtes WORMS WITH YOU ANYTIME' LOVE. YOUR FAVORITE PUDDLE JUMPERS Do you want to see "The Boneheads .. 1n The Observer every single day next year? II not. you better come up With a Brush, better comtc stnp. The Observer ts Good luck tonight! We'll be cheering looktng for new campus comtc stnps for lor you. next year. Send examples of your talent Love, to· The ·Anything But the Boneheads.. Hoppy, Jackie, Shannon Com1c Stnp Contest, Manag1ng Editor. The Observer, P.O. BoxQ, The Observer Elkhart. Elkhart. wherefore art thou, Questions? Call Margaret. 239-5313. Elkhart? S1gh  

•, 
The Observer Friday,April15, 1983-page 13 
Moses and the pact 
The regular NBA year in review 
(AP) -After having the threat of a strike and the chances of an un­precedented 70-victory campaign evaporate at roughly the same time, the 1982-83 National Basketball As­sociation season ends Sunday with a pair ofspirited playoff races. 
New York, Atlanta and Washing­ton in the East and Portland, Denver and Kansas City in the West are vir­tually deadlocked in the final days of the season as they battle for the final two playoff berths in each con­

ference.  
The  11th-hour  competition  for  
playoff  spots  maintained  the  
season's spirit.  

NBA players and management bargained for nine months before settlin_g their labor dispute March 31, two days before a strike deadline. The settlement, unique in sports, guaranteed 53 percent of the league's gross revenues for the 
players and imposed revenue sharing and minimum and maxi­mum team payroll levels starting in 1984-85. 
It wasn't until April 1, the day after the settlement, that the Philadelphia 76ers lost their 13th game of the season. It ensured that they would not become the first NBA team to win 70 games. Five days later, they lost for the 14th time, to San An­tonio, preserving the all-time best record of 69-13 by the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers. 
The 76ers signed Moses Malone to a six-year, SI 3.2 million contract before the season, a figure that some observers considered excessive, even for the league's Most Valuable Player. 
But Malone, helped by Philadel­phia holdovers Julius Erving, Andrew Toney and Maurice Cheeks, was an unqualified success. 
The 76ers were 50-7 at one stage of the season, the fewest losses ever· for a team with that many victories. Although attendance league-wide was down about 2 percent, fans flocked to see the 76ers, both at home and on the road. 
Individually, Malone was fifth in the league in scoring with a 24.5­point average, slightly below his MVP level at Houston the year before, and he was far and away the league's best rebounder, with more than 1 5 per game. 
The 76e:-~·-archrival, the Boston Celtics, had another outstanding season -but not outstanding enough. Despite winning 70 percent of the time, they fell 10 games Le­hind in the standings. 
At the other end of the spectrum were the Houston Rockets, who found out immediately how much they missed Malone. While the 76ers threatened the 70-victory mark, the Rockets, a playoff team the 
San Diego's Garvey nears Williams' mark 
SAN DIEGO (AP)-Steve Garvey returns to Dodger Stadium as a San Diego Padre tonight for a special homecoming, one that he says "has the electricity flowing." 
Barring rainouts, Garvey can tie Billy Williams' National League record of I, II 7 consecutive games on tonight and become the league's new iron-man tomorrow. 
Dodger fans who adored him during his 12 years with Los Angeles will be seeing him for the first time clad in an unfamiliar gold-and-white uniform. 
Garvey, 34, could mark his first 
return to Los Angeles with another 
milestone -the 1,000th run batted 
in ofhis career. 
"It's an exciting time. It will al­ways be home for me, because ofthe good friends, fans and loved ones," Garvey said Thursday before playing in his 1,116 consecutive game. 
The streak dates back to Sept. 2, 1975, when Garvey sat out a game against San Francisco with the flu. Since then, he's endured almost every known baseball injury and other nagging aches and pains to keep the string intact. 
On at least two occasions, the 
game was in the ninth inning before 
he was inserted in the lineup. 
"Twice there were two outs in the ninth," he recalled. 
"I guess I'm a poor sitter. I have to be involved. I get my energy from the players and the fans," said Gar­vey, who entered Thursday's game 23 base hits shy of the 2,000-hit plateau. 
"It's not so much an obsession as an obligation," he said. ''I'm paid to play in 162 games." 
Once he passes Williams, the for­mer Chicago Cubs star who set the mark between Sept. 22, 1963, and Sept. 2, 1970, Garvey has no plans to let the streak stop there. 
During spring training, Manager Dick Williams hinted he might rest Garvey every so often, even at the: exp.ense of the streak. But after a meeting with Garvey, Williams said he would abide by Garvey's wishes. 
Williams believes Garvey's record 
is safe for many years to come. 
"Most guys aren't going to play 
that long. With the money they'n: 
being paid today, they have too 
many outside interests. And most 
guys are going to get their money 
and get out," he said. 
"Steve hasn't come out and said it, but I'm not sure he doesn't want to break Lou Gehrig's all-time record (2,130)," said Williams. 
NY Yankee boss angers umpires; boycottplanned 
NEW YORK (AP) -National League umpires could stage a one­dzy walkout next week to press their union's demand that Commissioner Bowie Kuhn suspend Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, 
according to a published report. 
The action would take the form of a visit by several umpires to Kuhn's New York office on a day when they were scheduled to officiate at ball g~mes, The New York Times 
reported in today's editions. 
The source, described as being familiar with discussions between the Major League Umpires Associa­tion and the commissioner's office, said the boycott would take place unless Kuhn acted by the weekend. 
Kuhn's office has said he is study·~ ing a demand by Richie Phillips.. general counsel to the union, that: Steinbrenner be suspended for attacking the umpires' integrity. Phillips has cited remaks Steinbren­ner made during an exhibition game last month in which he said, "The National League will always give the 
close call to the National League." 
Steinbrenner has said his com­ments were made to a friend, were considered private and not meant to be heard by reporters. 
Phillips would say only that the umpires were upset that Kuhn had not taken any action on the associa­tion's demand for Steinbrenner's suspension. 
year before, fell just short of 70 losses. 
Ever Houston's best-laid hopes for ne (t season were likely to be foiled. 
One e it became obvious that they would finish last in the Western Confe:l'ence, the Rockets hoped Cleve! md would finish last in the East. l hat would guarantee the first two picks for the Rockets, since they obtai111ed the Cavaliers' first-round choice: for 1983 in the Malone deal. 
But Cleveland, six games behind lndia111a at one point, acquired veterart guard World Free at mid­seasor and also got solid perfor­manct from forward Cliff Robinson. The Ctvaliers passed the Pacers late in the season and it appeared likely that J-1 ouston would have to flip a coin "'ith Indiana to determine who 
would get the No. I draft choice, al­most <:ertainly Ralph Sampson. 
Teny Cummings of San Diego, one of a handful of NBA players avera~ing better than 20 points and I 0 rebounds a game, looked to be rookk of the year although he spent the t:nal days of the season on the sidelir:es. Doctors found Cummings had an irregular heartbeat, but they were uncertian how serious the probkm was. 

The ObserverI Lucian Niemeyer 
Brw..ving the elements with his short pants, a Tall but White player ftead fakes two members of Mrs. T's Pierogies during Bookstore :Jal action yesterday. The game saw Tall but White win 
21-4. SeeJej) B.lumb's article on page 20 . 
..................................... 

''Our waiter was top notch. He even recommended our wine which was excellent:' 
/2 /J. · ---} _ _ Alice Farner ~ ~ South Bend. Indiana 
"The chocolate mousse with orange slivers was as delicious as it was unique." 
~u_)~ 'l 
Carol Watson Valparaiso. Indiana 

"I like the atmosphere, the service and the food. All three go hand-in-hand to 
make a pleasant evening." 
Gene Nemeth South Bend. Indiana 
'!4t Tippecanoe Place our food is as fabulous as our setting. Our staff is dedicated to providing you with the finest dining experience to be found anywhere . .. at an affordable price. Next time you dine out, visit us at Tippecanoe Place. You 'II like the way we ma~e the occasion special." 

w~ 
Mark McDonnell. General Manager 
© 1983. (onllneonlal Re...aauranl Sy;1erm. 
r---------------------~
I TIPPECANOE· I PLACE. 
: RESTAURANT 
I I 
I 
I 620 W Wash1ngton. South Bend. 234-9077 
ANY TWO (2) DINNER ENTREES I 
JUST $1995 I 
You can save up to $13.45 : 
Present this coupon when ordering and you and your companion 
I 
will receive any 1wo dinner entrees of your choice, including our tableside salad. bread and buMer. vegetable of the day, and rice 
I 
or potatoes for just $19.95. Coupon good during dinner hours through June 30. 1983. except on Easter. Mother's Day and May 13 through 15. 1983. Not 1 
valid in conjunction with any other special offers or for banquets. Does not include appetizers. desserts. beverages. or tax and tip. 
I 
"·· Reservations available NDIN-B ©1983. Con"""""'l R.siaurom S.,.~ems 
·~---------------..-----­


The Observer Friday, April15, 1983-page 14 
The Observer/John Wachter 
Notre Dame leftfie/der Casey Snyder hopes to Alave a good weekend as he and his teammates shoot for the .50rJ mark. The Irish face Indiana State and Purdue this weekend. See N.r>a/ Smith's 
story at right. 
strikeouts and 14 walks this season. 
Near .500 mark 
Irish ready for ISU, PU contests 
Hy NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 
"We'd like to get back to .500," commented Notre Dame baseball coach Larry Gallo on this weekend's games against Indiana State (Saturday) and Purdue (Sunday). To reach the .500 mark, the I 1·13 Irish will have to win three of their four games this weekend. The scheduled doubleheaders are to start at 1 :00 p.. m. atJake Kline Field. 
After a 0-6 record at the beginning of the season, Notre Dame has been battling to get to the .500 level ever since. The team is now within reach of the break-ev ten point because it has won eight of its last 10 games. During that span, the Irish won six games in a row at one point. 
Things look good for the Irish to start another winning streak since junior Mark Clementz is on the mound for the first game Saturday. Clementz has yet to lose while 
'----~ettt'ffitiHi-1\ otre Dame uniform. He is 2-0 for the season and 8-0 during his college career. Clementz has a team leading 2. 51 earned run average (E.R.A.) in 28 inn t ings of work. He is credited with 21 
Clementz will have to get his vic­tory against, what Coach Gallo labels, "an excellent hitting ball club." 
The Indiana State Sycamores, a Missiouri Valley Conference team, is led by outfielder Rob Baker and catcher Brian Dorsett. Gallo, who saw the Sycamores play in Ok­lahoma during spring break, remarked that both players are ex­ceptional· hitters. Going into play this week Indiana State was 16-9. 
The Notre Dame starting pitcher in the second game against the Sycamores will be either senior Bill Stonikas or sophomore Buster Lopes. Stonikas is 1-1 on the season with a 7.94 E.R.A. in II innings. Lopes has pitched 10 innings and is currently maintains a 5.06 E.R.A. and a 0-1 record. 
The Irish are expected to face the Purdue Boilermakers' top two pitchers on Sunday. Purdue's top pitcher is Matt Kinzer who was drafted by the pros right out of high school. As of last week, the Boiler­makers were 2-11 however. 
Pitching for Notre Dame against Purdue will be seniors Bill Matre and Steve Whitmyer. 
Whitmyer has a 2-4 record with a 4.42 E.R.A. in 38 innings while strik­ing out 35 batters and allowing only 11 walks. 
Matre has a 3.16 E.R.A. and is 3-3 on the season. He has 26 strikeouts and given up 26 walks. Before the Ball State game Wednesday (he gave up six earned runs in five innings), Matre had a streak of pitching I9 in­nings in which he did not give up an earned run. During the I9 innings, he lowered his E.R.A. from 4.77 to 1.97, had 12 strikeouts and allowed only one walk. 
Second basemanJack Moran, who suffered a mild concussion in the Ball State game, is expected to be back in the lineup this weekend. "All indications are that he (Moran) probably will be all right by Satur­day," said Coach Gallo. 
Moran, who was the conference's player of the week last week, has batted .465 since spring vacation. In the process, he has raised his average from .I94 to .342. 
"The weekend looks like it's going to be pretty good weather," com­mented Gallo. Two doubleheaders were cancelled last weekend be­cause ofrain. Gallo added, "It's going to be cold, but it's going to be dry." 

,. 
Applications for 
ASSISTANT TREASURER STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting major 
Applications Due Today, April15 4:00PM 

Langdon, Constable and Co. 
Irish impressive in track meet 
By DEAN SULLIVAN 44'10" to capture first place in that Sports Writer event and leaped 21'3 3/4" in the long jump, good for second. Patter­When it rains it pours, and when it son reversed those standings, pours the meet gets moved indoors. placing first in the long jump and At least that was the case at last second in the triple jump. The Uni­Saturday's Midwest Catholic Cham­versity City. Mo. native's winning pionships. But the rain wasn't the · long jump carried him 23'1 3/4." only thing to come down hard on Junior John Langdon celebrated Notre Dame's opponents, as the his return to competition with a I3' Irish ran, jumped and threw their vault and a first place finish in the way to a. decisive victory pole vault. Langdon last competed In all, Notre Dame had 12 first March 18 but he had been injured in places and I 0 second places in I9 a car accident shortly after that. events. However it was the field Frank Riely, a senior from New Al­events that the Irish completely bany, Ind., put the shot 45'5" to dominated. But that is not to say finish second behind Tom Stieber of coachJoe Piane's ch<Irges did poorly Loras. With a. throw of I 56'6" fresh­anywhere else. man Chris Bonde placed second in 
"It went really smooth (despite the javelin. The tosses of freshman the weather)," said Pian e. "Our guys Andy Ferguson and senior Pat Doyle competed well. We rar, halfthe meet earned them third and fourth place in and half out. If you have the finishes, respectively. facilities, you mighi as well use Most of the accolades, however, them." went to sophomore Chuck Con­
Freshman Gary Lekander and stable who high jumped a school sophomore James Patterson went 1-record 7'0" to capture first place in 2, and 2-I respectively. Lekander, that event. from Salinas, Calif., triple jumped Junior Barney Grant placed third 
"Ukli lA11[ \AII'\.f 'n·ll;(f"\ 
C{)IWHIJNIIC!lllii{)N l 
~......,...___(;lHfAilRfc r lfll2111()A\~ lfiiiL~\ ~1~1[2111~~ 
Apnl 15 Montenegro 119811 Dusan Makave1ev Yugoslav1a color. 97 m1n Absolulely anyth1ng goes al the Zanll bar. a gypsy hangout where bored housew1te Susan Anspach l1nds a w1ld new lifestyle A fantasy farce tnat blends black humor wtlh soctal comment whtle tak1ng a sur­real look at sex love. and hie 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
2 00
........_......_lr~u ~ 11,131ti lr---s--. 
linnual 
~tudent 
~hibition 
Opening reception at the SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 1·4 pm Sunday April17 
1:30 and 3:30 pm Abiogenesis Dance Performance 
Free Buttons Refreshments 
and Patterson fifth. 
In the running events. most of which were held indoors, Notre Dame also outclassed the field. In the I 500-meter run, co-captain Jim Moyar posted a time of3:56.7 to take first place, with sophomore Tim Cannon right on his heels. Coming in fifth wasJuba who also competed in the 600-yard run and finished second, three-tenths ofa second be­
hind Bill Walsh of DePaul. Freshman 
Pete Sims added a fifth in that race. 
Classmates Ralph Caron and Andy 
Dillon, showing team unity. shared 
first place in the 3 mile run. The 
juniors crossed the line abreast at 
14:19.6. Tim Bartrand came in fifth place. 
In the 880-yard dash, Jim Tyler beat his competition by a full two seconds:--.._Tyler's main competition came mainly from John McNelis, a second place finisher with a time of 
I:56. Bill Courtney contributed to the cause with a fifth place finish in that event. 
Van Pearcy sprinted to a first in the 440-yard dash, with Jim MeDon> nell finising third and Rob Nobles fourth. Jan Kania won the 300-yard dash in 32.5, with Mike Brennan coming in fourth. Graduate student John McCloughan took a first and a second. The first came in the I 0­meter high hurdles and the second came in the 60-yard dash. Freshman Mike Mara placed third in the steeple chase. 
The mile relay team posted a time of3:26.2 to win that race and the 4 x I00 relay team also took first place. 
Tomorrow the best of the Irish travel to Indiana University to meet the best ofthe Hoosier state. A finish in at least the top four or five is an attainable goal for Notre Dame. All­American Steve Dziabis is expected to test his leg and Tyler will once again give Indiana All-American Jim Spivey a run for his money. Aside from Indiana; Purdue, Indiana State and Ball State can be expected to giv<:_the Irish a tough test. 

The Observer Friday, April 15, 1983 -page 15 

COLLEy·s SPORTSWEAR 
1813 S.lronwood, South Bend 219-234·6149 
LW.W. 
MishLW.W. S.B.
~-~ 
·a..... ..~ L
for business, clull 
'~.'R. 
team, special 
.
event, promotion, 
' 
a
fraternity, or
~ 
"
sorority." 
"'
tN 
§.
•Custom Screen 
c
Printing 
• !1 c
T-shirts, sweat shirts, award 
l 
jackets &caps 
Ironwood
Discounts on quantities 
* VIlla~
Soul 


FURNITURE 
RENTALS 
Save yourself the hassle of truck rentals and labor. Select the quality pieces you need (at low monthly rates) and /eave the work to us. We pick up and deliver! 
SOFAS-CHAIRS-END TABLES LAMPS -DINETTE & BEDROOM SETS Quality Furniture I Low Monthly Rates 
SAVE 50/ RESERVE YOUR SELECTIONS 
/0 BY MAY 10th 
CALL (219) 291-2807 c~L~~~~J~~:!~, 
CAMPUS FURNITURE RENTALS, INC./P.O. BOX 2683/SOUTH BEND, IN 46680 
... Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 20 
served Asst. Commissioner Louise 
Mudd. "It was very tough to make a 
jump shot," Commissioner Dziedzic 
added . There are a number of 
interesll...::: games on tap for today. 
Rich Hunter ;.:nd the Polish Nation­
als, featuring Irish Soccer Coach 
Rich Hunter, play Crune Doesn't Pay 
-Part 11, a team made up of Notre 
Dame Security, at 6:1 5 on Stepan 6. 
Not All Associated With The Even­less jacksonless Five, a first round upset winner over Wombats, also plays at 6:15, oo Lyons 11. Second round action concludes with Satur­day's games, which are scheduled only for 6:15, with the third round beginning on Sunday . 
Bookstore: A dream cotne true 
The first round ofBookstore Basketball -it's the an­nual Everyman's festival at Notre Dame, where hacks and stars alike get to display their hoops prowess <or 
Michael Riccardi 
lack thereof). 
This year, the first round began two days after North Sports Editor Carolina State's heartstopping (not to mention, tempo------------··---­
slowing) victory over Houston -so the rockballers who came out to have fun this early April got to fancy themselves as "Akeem the Dream" or N.C. State's Dereck Whittenburg and Sidney Lowe. Shari's Darlings (a sort of :ribute to Bruce Springsteen 
My dream, on the other hand, was just to win a game. and Shari) were set for the first round. You see, writing sports doesn't mean you can play a Our first round foes, Oce Mo' Time, added two mo' sport. So, to win, I had to recruit. That's where another players to last year's team that was shut our by a team of dream comes in. merciless football players. lt looked like an easy enough 
What makes Bookstore a festival for the Everyman is mark, so I decided to allov, myself to play. It wasn't that the presence of non-jocks, pseudo-jocks and neo-jocks easy. along with Notre Dame's graduating varsity basketball They scored the first ba >ket. OK, that'll be their mo­players -who sometimes play despite the fact that a fat ment ofglory. We'll win bra ton, right? Wrong. NBA contract may be waiting. I've always wanted to They were tough. We went in at the half one down, play with the same players I saw on the ACC main court. and One Mo' Time stayed with us until they closed to 
This year's alumni to be, John Paxson, Billy Varner, within 1.9-18. But Paul wa> hot. His 12-for-24 shooting Tim Andree and Karl Love, were the obvious choices saved us, and we won, 21-·18. for an out-of-shape, slow guy who can't jump and gets Shari and Mary had to h;, ve a tough time dealing with tired easily and who wants to be carried to his first the hacking, and the game wasn't the most artful. For Bookstore win. So what to do? Get somebody who has me, though, it was a step up. Finally, to win one. Today, set a raft ofschool records, and started for four years on Shari's Darlings will play it:; second round game, against the Irish varsity. That's Right, We'z Bad. Tho:·y'U be in a little better shape 
Paxson? today, since I'll be on the s .deline, playing "owner." 
No. Shari Matvey -heck, I wrote women's basket· Soon, Bookstore will be· a competition between the ball, so why not try to play it. But would that be enough? campus' elite basketball players. Just a bit of the That's where my major contribution to the team came Everyman's festival is left. Enjoy it while you can, then in. Mary Murphy, Coach Mary DiStanislao's assistant, just marvel at the skills ofso many players at the Univer­was a great player for Mary D. at Northwestern four sity. My moment, however, was in the second halfoflast years ago. Northwestern -that's Division I, right? week's game. Right. And didn't Dziedzic say that no two Division I Late in the game, I was Slicking mass quantities ofair players could play for any one Bookstore team? Right. just trying to stay alive. Heck, I began sucking air when 
Mary Murphy played at NU when all women's ath· we had nine points. Still going at it, I hacked, and saw a letics were under the auspices of the AlAW -not the loose ball. I dove for it, although T.J. Conley didn't. So, NCAA. Helluva loophole. So we got two Division I being as big as I am, I pur a wrestling move on him. players. Add in Assistant Sports Editor Mike Sullivan and Takedown. It wasn't poetic Paul Mcintyre, an interhall player from Keenan, and But it sure feels good to win. 
MSU, U of Michigan next 
Men's tennis readies for Big Ten 
By MARK B. JOHNSON in East Lansing last year, 5-4. "After "Michigan will be quite a bit to Sports Writer last year's dose loss, we will be handle, but it is a good challenge for looking for revenge," commented us," conents Fallon. "Tough" seems to be the con­sophomore John Novatny. 
Although the Wolverines shutout sensus word that Coach Tom Fallon 
"After last year's disappointment, the Irish last season, they fought for and his mens tennis team use in we would really like to even up the their llives two years ago at descibing this weekend's homes­distribution ofwins and losses," con­
Courtmy, and the Irish players are land against Big Ten powerhouses curred Idzik. 
hoping lor a repeat performance on Michigan State and Michigan. "It will Fallon really does not know what their ho,ne court. 
definitely be tough, especially Mich­to expect from the Spartans, as his 
"We 'lave done it before, and igan," stated senior Paulldzik. only scouting report is last year's 
maybe v. e can do it again," states Fal­Not only is Michigan the defend­match and his knowledge of their lon. ing Big Ten champion, but they also loss to common foe Minnesota. 
"We ;vould really like to beat handily defeated Minnesota, a team "They are just about the same as we 
Michigan," adds Idzik. "We are going that has already proven itself supe­are," he said. "It should be a really to give it the best Notre Dame hustle rior to both the Spartans and Irish dose match." 
that we can." this season. Michigan State is only the begin­Notre Dame needs at least a splitUnder Fallon's watchful eyes, the ning of a long.weekend with north­
with it~ Michigan neighbors this Irish will take to Courtney Tennis ern neighbors, as the Irish must then weeken<l to avert a backslide, as the Center at 1:00 p.m. tomorrow as play host to the Wolverines ofMichi· 
17-9 sq11ad is still in the midst of they play host the the Spartans. Bar­gan at 2:00p.m. Sunday. 
recovering from a mid-season 
ring inclimate weather, which Heading the Wolverine machine slump. 1'. win against either Big Ten seems to be the rule of late, Fallon will be No. 1 player Mark Mees who 
opponem could be just what Dr. Fal­expects the home court to be an has made-quite a name for himselfon lon ordned for his ailing team. Irish advantage. If nature should the college circut. He was highly 
"We have got to come up with the prevail, all would be neutralized, as touted as a recruit, having won the 
wins ag:tinst Big Ten teams, and this the ACC indoor courts have been 
Ohio state tournament two straight is our chance," says Idzik. Freshmen reserved for nonathletic purposes. years. He won the Big Ten last year Doug Pratt optimistically stated, "Indoors, it (the outcome) is at his No. 2 slot, and would have had 
"We art getting it back together anybody's guess," predicted ldzik. a fair shot at No. 1, ifnot for his now again, and I am sure that this Michigan State edged Notre J)ame professional teammate, Mike Leach. weekenl will turn it around." 

CORBY'S OPEN Golf Tournament '·'Weekend" 
Fri/Sat HAPPY HOUR  4-7  
Mix Drinks ........... .  2forone  
(served in FREE Corby's 1982-133  
Commemorative Glasses)  

Budweiser Cans .......... 90 aell night 
Sat OPEN AT NOON ... COME IN ... 
Pizza 25¢ apiece following Golf Tournament Sat afternoon ... Budweiser Cans ........ 90¢ all night!! 
1 
1 
The Observer Sports Extra-Trying to make a name for itself 
Friday, April15, 1983-page 16 
. ' 
1983 Irish Lacrosse 
Coach 
Rich O'Leary  
3rd year (98-69)  
Goalie  
Rob Simpson  
Pat Poletti  
Defense  
Sean Corscadden  Mike Rice  
Justin Shay  John Walsh  
Steve Cloud  Tom Pace  
Midfield  
Dan Pace  Joe Hart  
Tracy Cotter  Dwayne Hicks  
Mike Quinn  John Wilson  
·Justin Driscoll  Tony Rettino  
Kevin Smith  
Attack  
Steve Pearsall Bob Trocchi Joe Franklin  Kevin Rooney Bob Carillo Brian McKeon  II  
Tom Grote  

_...J 
--·--·-------~ 
rlllt.tttt'llt"4"•tttlllllflllllllll~llllllltllllltUtllela-5l~UMIIIttlll~lltltiUIIIftiii~IIIAIItl. 
~ ND -SMC STUDENTS i 
·­
SUMMER DISCOUNT GROUP RATES 8 &8 Storage Self-Service 
.
%mile south of Niles K-Mart : r 3001 u.s. 31 . east side of highway. i 
;IIIIIIIIHHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIII: 
Recent work by Tamera Mams etchings and 
Bruce Habicht 
sculpture Isis Gallery 
lrd floor West. Art Building gallery hours 1 0 -1 z. 1 • 3 MTWF 

ARCOSANTI ~~~s::~ 83 
Arcosanti is a unique environment designed by Paolo Soleri intergrating living, learning and doing in the urban laboratory that is being constructed with the aid of volunteer labor fn Arizona. The following five week workshops are offered for 1983. 
CONSTRUCTION: Focus is on skills development from plan reading to finish work. Staff architects and skilled craftspeople guide participants in 
buil~_ing. 
AGRICULTURE: Arid lands agriculture using organic techniques: Greenhouse, field preparation, irrigation, biological pest control. harvest and solar dry herbs and vegetables from 10 acres of field crops, orchards and vines. 
DATES: Construction/Agriculture run concurrently: June 6, <luly 11, August 15, September 12, October 10 and November 7. 
The workshops are designed around a core curriculum explaining Solen's concepts and the purpose for building Arcosanti. 
SPECIAL WORKSHOPS OFFERED ECO·PHILOSOPHY May 1 · 13, August 14 · 27 NATURE and the AMERICAN EXPERIENCE June 12 · 25 PRINTMAKING July 11 ·August 15 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Cosanti Foundation Dept. E 6433 Doubletree Rd., Scottsdale, Arizona 85253 (602) 948-6145. 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYMENT POTENTIAL FOLLOWING WORKSHOPS FOR GRADUATES. 
O'Leary raises ND program 
Person responsible for success now leads team into unclear future 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
Sometimes Rich O'Leary must think he's at the 
halfway point in a marathon. 
After all, he has brought the Notre Dame lacrosse 
program so far in his 13 years as club and varsity coach, 
yet finds that the task that lies ahead of him is the most 
difficult and most important of all. He must try to sell 
the sport to a student body that has a hard time support­
ing anything but football and basketball. The fact that a 
minuscule number of students know what lacrosse is 
just complicates the matter. 
Still, things could be worse. The program has been 
promoted to varsity status, the big move having been 
made three years ago, and the talent on the team is 
mur:h greater than it ever has been in the past. In fact, 
the Irish lacrosse team is one of the best teams in the 
West and~ Midwest. And it may he the best Division I 
team west of the Appalachians. 
And that would be quite an improvement over the club team that used to make up li>r it~ lack of talent hy terrorizing opponent~ with its rough play. You've heard of·'goon·· hockey-wt"ll. thb was "goon" lacrosse. The team continunf to play like that fi>r the ~even years that it existed without .mv reJI coach. 
Then O'l.ear)' caml' upon thc M.'cm·. 
A <. .olil'ge Oivisinn ·\11-Am•:rican tor two ~ca,on~ at 
the ·,l.tle l'uivcr"u'· ..r Nn1 Yurk .11 ('ortland. t l'l..:arv 
!!'nit C't:d lh(' i•>ll '" trl·<'l ;.h .t prosp<Tii"·· '·"ach. 
liov.,·\cr. kn>l\\lnl;~·-·ahlt Lu !•"~<· pcoplt' \\<'1'<' n<ll t:Jo. 
.tcth a l•ul .:umnh~tltt\ ..,,,it l><;~·.unc llt'l't''·'ar~ !or hint 
tu id i"<"'>ple · ·''!-' ·:.tlh <. ,,;-,.•_,, arhklw d,;·c··. :, ..., 
:... . : ( ' .. , ;-.(• \\ ,l'-1 .' \ .:ll~lhi. 
"\\hen l wa~ in •.11lh:gc·. I had the opporlllllity to ~lwkm-tt·ach," n.:mcmlwr' tht· E.t~t MeadoVI, N.Y., native. "I t,rught at .til h:H:b --college, high ~,·hool. · wh\.'rt:H'f -and had the opportunity to coach at <:or­ndl (which was one of the big l.tcros~c ~chools in thc co'untry ). I dt:cided that l got tht: mo~t t·njoyment from (:oaching collcg<· player~. So I \'.TOll' to l "i <:ollt:ges that had club teams or were just organizing a varsity team. 
"It turnt•d out that Notre Dame was looking for somenne to take the job of a~~istant director for duh sports and to also help out with the lacros~e cluh." 
What awaited O'Leary on the lacros~e field was material for a master's degree. 
"The players wen:: tough, physical kids, mainly foot· 
hall .players, who didn't have much lacrosse skill," he 
says. "They were in great shapt·, though. They could run 
and hit with anyone. In fact, a number of the teams in 
the Midwest wouldn't even play them hecause they 
were so rough. 
"I remember my first practice. The captains began practice with 1,000 jumping jacks. I told them to stop right there and work on some lacrosse skills. The rest of that first year we did no conditioning. We just worked on fundamentals. We diu the same thing the next year, too." 
But, while O'Leary was teaching the squad how to play lacrosse the correct way, he did not have the con­trol over the team that. was necessary for it to fully benefit from his coaching. The reason was the team's club status. As with every cluh team, the students run the team. He was just along tc coach. H~. therefore, didn't get to perform functions like arranging the schedule and picking the opponents that a developing team needs to play to improve. 
As the team slowly improved, though, the possibility of turning varsity was brought up. It was an important decision and, naturally, the players turned to the person who built up the program. 
"They asked me what I thought about them moving 
up to varsity," O'Leary says. "I gave them the pluses and 
minuses. I warned them that I think you lose something 
as a varsity team. You lose that 'club' attitude, because 
the best players will play for a varsity team and winning 
is more important. 
"Eventually they applied three times. For the first two times, the players' feelings weren't overwhelmingly in favor because some knew they wouldn't play if the team went varsity. The third time, though, a higher percent· age wanted to go, because we were in a position where we hadn't impn. ved in over three years because we 
couldn't play varsity teams. Also, in the club league, the teams played to June, so we had to play all our games in about a month." 
What eventually convinced the Athletic Department 
to raise lacrosse to the varsity level was the team's 
success as a club team. Notre Dame was a power in the 
Midwest Club Lacrosse Association, winning the league 
a few times and coming in second twice. O'Leary's 79· 
53 coaching record also showed the department that it 
had a coach who was qualified for a varsity coaching 
job. 
"Most people assume that we turndl varsity because 
of(present Athletic Director) Gene Corrigan (who is a 
member of the Lacrosse Hall of Fame)," says O'Leary. 
"But, actually, everything happened before he even got 
here. Moose -Krause (then the athletic director) was 
very helpful in the change." 
So, in May of 1980, Notre Dame had its newest -and 
most obscure -varsity sport. 
O'Leary had prepared his team well for the tougher 
competition. After a 6·6 record in its first year, the team 
finished senmd in the Midwest Lacrosse Association 
fast year. Now. in its third year, it ha!> the opportunit~· to 
move into a· tie for tlrst plact: in the ML\ with a victory 
tomorrowagainst Ohio Wesleyan. 
Ifit appear~ that the ~tory of the :'»>orrc Dame lacro~se 
program is the 'ame a~ the ~tory of Rich O'Leary·~ 
Glret·r at ·..:ot re Dame, it is Ill) surpn~c Rich O'Lc:.try is 
the Notre Danw lat-ro~se program. I k taught lacro,~t· 
skills to a bunch ol plavers who wen· no~ really ~·,Tn 
pL:ying lac.ro:-.~e Th1s " wht·n: the modern lacrosw 
program n•ally lwv,an . 
But. n(JW that 1he te:i11• b <.:onlpt·Jmg J' .t Divrsi<.'n I 
!;u·,ro··~<· '•:li.H; ; } I.e .tf>. f,a·. :111 1'\t':l, 11 •11glwr LJ~J... ;tl;c,t<l 
::' i·llffi.• ,,~ llHI..,l ti·:~· tq i;r:r~f~ .. pr'1~:r.ull that t~ ..,1111 \T!".­
young and umecognizt·d -nTn lw till" ..,tudcnts ofthe 
school -to a level wht·~t· it c;tn compete with the bt:st 
in the country. · 
Thi~ might not St't'JTl too dilllcult because Notrt· 
Dame has always drawn good athlcto because of its 
name, but there are some major oh~t.tcle~ over which O'Leary h~'i no controL and may nn't'r be ahk to overcome. 
The fort:mo~t and. at Notre Dame. most common, ohstaclc is money. The lano~~e team docs not receive any scholarship money from the l niversity. Obviou!.ly, this doesn't help recruiting. sinct: O'Leary can only offer the recruit a good education, while schools like Johns Hopkins, Harvard, and Cornell can offer a good educa· tion and some t1nancial aid. 
The second obstacle is the fact that nearly every good 
high school lacrosse player lives in the East -Long 
Island and the Baltimore areas, in particular. Long Island 
supplies O'Leary with a good deal of players, but an 
even greater number ofplayers decide that they want to 
stay ncar home. When compounded with the lack of 
financial aid, it makes recruiting a frustrating task. 
But, somehow, O'Leary has managed pretty well. He 
has been able to lure some players to Notre Dame with a 
guarantee that they will be seeing a lot of playing time. 
This guaramee of playing time, as well as the school's 
good reputation, has allowed O'Leary to keep upgrad· 
ing the team's talent. 
"The recruiting is pretty much handled through the mail," he explains. "There's no initial contact with the players. Ratht:r the coaches give me the names of the players. Fortunately we have Notre Dame's reputation to help out. It's easier in some regards, tougher in others. I didn't have to promise them anything." 
Wh::ther or not O'Leary finally gets some money to 
lure players out to the Midwest, he is going to continue 
doing whatever he can to improve the team. 
"I have to operate under the premise that I'm not 
going to get scholarships," he says. "So, right now, my 
goal is just to make the team the best in the Midwest." 
Ifthe program, some day, becomes one ofthe best in the country -and there is a good chance that this could happen, once lacrosse becomes more popular in the Midwest (see related story) -it will be because of the efforts of Rich O'Leary. He has lent consistency to a program that would have remained minor league had he not been around. Unfortunately, it may be a long time before anyone not associated with the program realizes this. 
Ask any marathoner how important fans are to his race, and you'll see what Rich O'Leary and the lacrosse program are eventually going to need to succeed. 

The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch II:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. 
MLA Slate 
Notre Dame 15, Kenyon 5 Ohio State 10, Notre Dame 9, OT Notre Dame 28, Mount Union 4 Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 6 
------~--­
The Observer Sports Extra-Trying to make a name for itself 
Friday, April15, 1983-page 17 
• • .Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 20 
go to where the lacrosse is, bring the lacrosse to you. 
The only way to do this, however, is to get the crowds 
out to the game -not just at Notre Dame, but also at 
the BigTen schools. Once the game gets a big following, 
the sport will take off. The support for the team will be 
there, as will the competition. 
It is not as easy as it looks. How can you expect 
people to come out to see a sport that they don't under­
stand~ There has to be a way to draw the students' atten­
tion. 
For O'Leary. that way to peak their interest is to win. 
Then, maybe, some people will step away from a 
Bookstore game and walk out to Cartier Field to watch a 
winning Notre Dame team -something which has 
been lacking of late. 
"One of our problems is that there are so many 
"better" things to do around campus. There's An Tostal 
and Bookstore. Still. it surprises me because, in a 
Bookstore game, they don't see the skill that you see on 
on the field or the track. I think it's because it's a student 
body of participants, not spectators. 
"What it's going to take is a winning team. Once a 
team is proficient, it gets a name for itself and people 
come out to see it. Even last year. when we hosted the 
league championship, we got pretty good support." 
With this goal in mind, O'Leary has set out to make his 
team the best it could be. He has limits because of the 
scholarship situation, but he has been fairly successful 
in getting talented players to come out to the lacrosse­
poor Midwest. His group of young players have begun 
to develop and are presenting a strong challenge to the 
traditional Midwest lacrosse powers, Ohio Wesleyan 
and Denison. 
This is where another problem arises. 
Ohio Wesleyan and Denison are not exactly names that get the student body's school pride in motion. But these are the best competition that Notre Dame can find in the Midwest right now. All the big name lacrosse schools like North Carolina do not have the money to come out to Indiana to play a team that they can beat 
easily. Once again, however, O'Leary is hoping to do something about the problem. 
"The problem is similar to what the hockey team went through," he S:J.fS. "Although the competition was the same, the names weren't there. And, if you're used to playing the best (which the football team does), you don't get the support of the students. 
"We have to be a lot more successful to get some big names out here. We do hope to bring Duke out here next year, though. I think we have enough Eastern people here at Notre Dame who will recognize a team from the East. 
"We have to improve quite a bit to make it (the trip to the Midwest)worth their while, though," he continues. "They could get a win over a Division I team, and they might want to play another team like Ohio State or Michigan State. A team like Duke which is building up its program is not in a position where it would hurt them to come out here." 
If there is ever going to be big-name lacrosse in the Midwest, though, lit will probably be necessary for the Big Ten to build up its programs. Ohio State and Michi­gan State are the only Big Ten schools with varsity programs, but the other schools have had club teams for a number of years. An Indiana or Purdue is the type of team that might draw spectators out to a lacrosse game. The presence of a recognized conference in the Mid­west should also help draw teams from the East. 
In fact, Notre Da1me is trying to draw teams from the 
East with or without the help of the Big Ten. Atletic 
Director Gene Corrigan, himself a member of the 
Lacrosse Hall of Fame and an avid fan of the game, of­
fered a bid for the 198<1 NCAA National Championships 
to be held at Notre Dame, but was turned down. Anoth­
er bid in the futurt· is a good possibility. 
There is one last selling point that remains for the 
lacrosse team. It is the sport itself. Speaking from per­
sonal experience, once you see a lacrosse game, you are 
hooked. 
"I feel that lacrosse is a great spectator sport," says O'Leary. "There is a lot ofexcitement. There is running and movement up and down the field. There is body checking like you tind in football and hockey, there is high scoring that is somewhat similar to basketball, and a lot ofopportunities to score. 
"Up until now, I'll admit, we haven't played a real 
exciting brand oflacrosse, but now that we have a lot of 
talent, we can be e:xciting and we can get people out 
there." 
It remains to be seen. 
The earliest estimates for a lacrosse boom in ~he Mid­
west is about 1988 or 1989. There is no way to estimate 
when the boom will happen at Notre Dame, though. It 
could happen anytime or it may never happen. Ifpeople 
find their way out to the game, however, they may find 
out why lacrosse games back in the East can pack 
14,000 fans into a 11,000-seat stadium even when the _'game is on television. 
Irish host Wesleyan tomorrow 
By MIKE SULLIVAN first minutes of the game, the team the ball, settle down, and be patient AssistantSports Editor seems to have recovered. A 7-6 win and wait for a good shot." over a good Michigan State team on O'Leary's squad could not find a The Irish get their chance tomor­Tuesday was marked by an early better time to put things together as 
row to put in their bid for the title of Notre Dame lead. il faces its toughest league schedule Best in the Midwest as Ohio Wes­"We're starting to be more confi­ofthe year over the next two weeks. leyan, ranked 1 1 th in the nation dent in the thing t s we do," says Next week it will travel to Ohio to among Division III teams, visits Car­O'Leary about his team's improve­take on Denison and Wooster Col­tier Field at I :30 p.m. ment. We've been able to control lege. 
Wesleyan is currently the only un­defeated team in the Midwest Lacrosse Association, making it the team to beat at this point in the season. A Notre Dame win will put 
THE DEPARTMENT OF ART, 
the Irish into a four-way tie for first 
place in the conference. The con-· 
ART HISTORY AND DESIGN 
ference winner is generally con­
sidered the best team in the 
Degree programs: 
Midwest. 
Rich O'Leary's squad will also get 
B.A. in Studio Art, Art History and 
a chance to avenge last year's tough 
Industrial Design 
12-9 loss at Wesleyan. However, it is 
a more experienced squad that will 
B.F.A. in Studio Art and Industrial Design 
visit Cartier tomorrow. 
"They were a little young last 
Elective Courses and Complete Programs in: 
year," says O'Leary, "but they've 
picked up some experience this 
Ceramics-Pottery and Ceramic Sculpture; 
year. 
Fibers-Weaving and Papermaking; 
"They've been scoring some good 
Product Design and Advertising; 
numbers even though they've 
Painting-Watercolor, Oil, etc.; 
played some good teams. Wes­
Photography-Black and White and Color, ect.; 
leyan's a team that really won't have a weakness. They're even all around 
Sculpture-Wood, Metal, etc.; 
and have a lot ofgood solid players." 
Art History 
The Irish, on the other hand, are a very young team with many fresh­
For more information abou1t our degree programs or 
men playing major roles on the 
electives please contact the Department Office,
team. After having problems earlier 
132 O'Shaughnessy or call :239-7602.
in the season by falling behind in the 
, 
Rob Simpson 
TheN. D. Student Union Presents .... 
ffiiKE DALY 
CHAUTAUQUA 
SATURDAY, APRIL 16 9:30-12:30 ADMISSION: $1.00 ~\ 
. ~\'\~\; . 
~tO ~~\\0 
$\)c.c.eft5ao.c.¥. ~\tot\\<> \ \SY "'eft '-"~e C.~ 
··~,, 

~MAINEVENT ~ 
Earnest Hart Jr. 3 Time World Champion vs. Eric "Mad Dog" Jones 8th Rated in the World 
~ SPECIAL APPEARANCE~ 
Bill "Super Foot" Wallace Retired Undefeated Champ Star of A Force of One 
~PLUS~ 
Exciting Demonstration by 
Notre Dame TaeKwonDo Club 
~TICKETS~ 
Students &Sibs $3.00 in advance at Ace Box Office Box Office Closes at 5:00 PM Friday 
Friday April15 8:00 Pm Doors Open at 7:00 P .11 

---.----------------,-~----~----~-~---­

The Observer Friday, April15, 1983-page 18 
a 
Sanderson gets No. 2 
Cubs fall again, 4-3 to.Montreal 


MONTREAL (AP)-Tim Raines tripled home two runs in the sixth inning and Scott Sanderson tossed seven-hit ball over seven innings Thursday as the Montreal Expos downed the Chicago Cubs 4-3. 
With the score tied 2·2, Warren Cromartie opened the sixth by dou­bling down the first-base line against Chicago starter Chuck Rainey, 0·2. A single by Sanderson moved him to third base and both runners scored as Raines ripped a line drive which took a bad bounce and skipped past Cub left fielder Scott Thompson. 
Sanderson, 2-0, was relieved by Dan Schatzeder to open the eighth, but Schatzeder faced only pinch· . hitter Jerry Morales, who lined a single off his the left-bander's right arm. Jeff Reardon relieved the injured Schatzeder and finished up 
to collect his fust save despite yield· ing an RBI single to Keith Moreland and having to pitch out ofa one-out, bases-loaded jam in the eighth. 
Sox 12-11 over Birds 
CHICAGO (AP) -Rookie Ron Kittle collected six RBis and Greg Lu:zinski had a gamewinning sacrifice fly In the bottom of the 
eighth  inning  Thursday  as  the  
Chicago White  Sox  outlasted  the  
Baltimore Orioles 12·11.  

Luzinski's RBI broke a 9·9 tie and gave the victory to Salome Barojas, 1·0, who came on in the seventh as the fourth Chicago pitcher. Kevin Hickey earned his secnd save by get· ting the final out. 
The game took 3 hours, 56 minutes to complete -one minute short of the longest nine-inning game in American League history, 
Get Involved!!
What are the 
Cultural Arts Commission
BISHOPS 
Saying About Nuclear Arms? 
Applications are available in the Student Union office 2nd floor LaFortune 
William McManus 
Bishop of Fort WaynejSouth Bend 
Richard Warner, CSC 
Committee Member, Statement on 
50% 
Peace and War 
Frames 
April17, 1983 
fZie
8:00PM 
Choose from the entire selection of frames including designer lines such as Gloria Vanderbilt and Christian Diof. ·Then take 50% off the regular price. Offer good with this coupon and student/fat:ulty identification when ordering a complete pair of
Library Auditorium 
prescription glasses. No other discounts applicable. 

South Bend: Scottsdale Mall291-2222 Elkhart: Concord Mall875-7472 
EEl 
Open All Day Saturday ond Sunday Mall Hours ~ 
PROFESSIONAL EVE EXAMINATION AVAILABlE BY ~ L OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICES ON PREMISES · 
------------~------­
Winding up Round 2 
YHienlay's Reaulta 
S1epan 1 8th Floor Loser• over Five Pillars Of Zen by 17 Team #257 over Sir Gallahad ..by 13 
Capt. Crunch ...over Team #225 by 14 Love & The Shooting Stars over Team #404 by 19 
S1epan2 Fun Bunch 5 over The Tragedies by 14 4 Human Beings ...over Rails ...by 10 Team #430 over John DeLorean Says Coke Is It 26· 
24 Team #62 over MUNG by 8 
Stepan3 Francis Hotel LaSalle over Team # 128 22-20 WEBB's Encore over Beer Hunlers by 14 The Scroggs over The Bullish B-Ball Brokers by 5 Bigger. Bener ..over 5 Unwanled ...by 11 
Stepan4 Bleeding Ax Wounds over MCOB II by 2 PGNF In Slereo over Tew*865 by 8 Sons Of Thunder over p,I(J•;n>eaks by 12 Freddie Brown .over Team #409 22·20 
Stepan 5 Nutmeggers Are Back Again over Boom-Boom by7 But We Had A Good Recruil1ng Year over Oh. What The Hell by forfeit Team #30 over Team #81 by 7 Rousseau's Noble Savages over Chang's Gang by 12 
Stepan& Pandeios over Team #468 by 13 Team #71 overTheCubsby 18 Spoofhounds Ill over 4 Lazy ..by 11 Pig Bag over Sublill)B Mediocre Frogs by 14 
Sleplln 7 Showdown over God's Own Drunks by 14 Stepan& Whoosh ...over The Tormenlors by 5 
Bookatore9 4 Jerks ...over 5 Guys Who ...by 16 The Problem ..over W.H....by 2 Joe Jakubik .over Cap1a1n Snorkel ..by 15 
Booketore 10 Tall Bul While over Mrs. T's Pierog1es by 9 3 Beers & 2 Grape Nehis Please over 5 Reasons by 12 Silky ...over GF by 7 
LTyons11 Team #368 over Even Hungner Rats by 4 Chicks Dig Us over Team #111 by 11 MacNamara's Band over The Airball5 by 19 
Lyons 12 The Creamers over Team #372 by 11 Macri's Preferred Stock over Team #9 by 6 Bad To The Bone over 4 Tylenols & A Cyan1de by 19 
Today'a Games 
S1epan 1 Hawkeye . .v. Armed & Dangerous M-21 Explos1ve B-Ball Unit (4:00) 
Team #361 v. Team #289 (4:45) Lumber Lobbers v. Win One ...(5:30) Shari's Darlings v. That's Righi Wez Bad (6:15) 
Stepan2 Kintuckee v. Two Fourth Generation Domer Brothers 
. (4:00) Team #178 v. 5 Short While Guys Wrth No Alhlelic Ability (4:45) Team #394 v. The Delalls (5:30) Play At Your Own Risk v. G.G. & The Soilers (6:15) 
Stepan 3 The Brick Throwers v. John Murphy's Slime Tra1n IV (4:45) Team #402 v. Boom-Boom Mancini ...(5:30) Team #136 v. Stalking The Wild ..(6:15) 
Stepan 4 John Hinckley's ..v. FOAK (4:45) 
B.O. & The Bouncing Balls v. Duk Koo K1m .(5:30) The No-Name Kids v. Team #377(6:15) 
Stapan5 The Lasl Of The Stoosters v. B. Lube A.V. ·s (5:30) Mercury Morns Chose Coke Over Pepsi v. Love. Skull & The Chicken Wings (6: t 5) 
Stepan6 Cancelled Due To Lack Of lnteresl v. Team #21 (5:30) Rich Hunler & The Polish Nalionals v. Cnme Doesn't Pay-Part II (6:15) 
Stepan 7 Eugene v. Team #504 (6:15) Stepan 8 Doug's Gunners v. Runn1ng Rebels (6:15) 
Bookstore9 Four Gringos ..v. Pangloss . (4:00) The Cuban Miss1le Cns1s v. Annd We're Oul Of Here (4:45) Embarrassing .v. 4 Throals& A Real Domer (6:15) 
Bookstore 10 Team #490 v The Purdue Hockey Team (4:00) No. Bul Senously. v. Name W1lhheld Upon Re­quesl (4:45) John Holmes . .v. Team #380 (6:15) 
Lyons 11 Great Amencan .v Paul & The Penla·Ton>cs (4:00) Our Lasl Chance To Take No Pnsoners v. Verm1n (4:45) Not AI All Assoc1ated W1lh The Evenless Jacksonless F1ve v. Bara Ray (6:15) 
Lyons12 Team #392 v. Blum·s Bums (4:00) Team #415 v. Ed . (4:45) 5 Guys W1lh ..v. John DeLorean ...(615) 
Saturday's Games 
Stepan 1 Knockouts v. Dry Gnnders (6:15) 
Stepan 2 Geek Hunlers v. F1e\ded (6·15) Stepan3 
Jack Palnck v. WSND Rad1o Clash (6:15) Stepan 4 Team #455 v. Gramke's Gonllas (615) Stepan 5 DGW II plus 2 v. Van>lla Wonders (6:15) 
Stepan6 Cash Amberg & The Counlry Boys v. The Early R1sers (6:15) 
Stepan 7 The Stnp .v. Chnlon's Cores Encore (6:15) Stepan 8 43C-130v Cooter .(6:15) Bookstore9 Duk Koo K1m v. The M1htan1 P1gs (6: 15) Bookstore 10 The Soc1al Relards v Muldoon's Men (6:15) Lyons11 Team #304 v Menold Sheel Metal (6:15) 
Lyons12 Gil Thorpe's Vars11y Squad v. Old Men On The Block (615) 
set by Cleveland at Boston on April 19, 1977. 
Loser Don Welchel, 0·1, walked pinch-hitter Mike Squires to open the eighth and Tony Bernazard (ollowed with a single off Tippy Mar­tinez, Baltimore's fourth pitcher. Tom Paciorek walked to load the bases and, one out later, Luzinski drove home Squires with a fly ~o center. Kittle then singled home two more runs. 
Kittle also had a three-run homer, his third of the season, in Chicago's six-run ftfth inning, and a sacrifice fly in the ftrst. 
1Brewers top Jays 
TORO~TO (AP) -Jim Gantner 
drilled a two-out home run over the center field fence in the top of the ninth inning to snap a 4-4 tie and power the Milwaukee Brewers to a 5·4 victory over the Toronto Blue 
Jays on yesterday. 
Gantner slugged his first homer of the season against reliever Joey McLaughlin, 0·1, on an 0·1 pitch. 
Jim Slaton, who came on in relief 
ofJerry Augustine, who was forced 
to leave the game in the sixth inning 
after spraining his right knee picked 
up the victory for his first decision of 
the season. 
The Brewers knotted the game 4­4 with two runs in the eighth. Robin Yount opened with a single and scored on a triple to right by Cecil Cooper, who came home on Ted Simmons's single. 

r 
[ 
~----~---------------------------------------·----~--~--------~----------~----~--~--------~------~------~·-----­
Ihe~et=·========~============================== 
Weekend --­
1-Friday, April1 5, 1983-page 19 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 




WHAT ARE: 'lOlA qO!iNA DO THIS SIAHMER? 
\ 


-'liAs?:
LEWD CONDUCT? 
WHfiT DID YOU 
1i~ '/.ior1?.t
'[)(),11R. PIG? 
iW~ IK:NoR, 
1'1'1 f/Ff<f/ID 
IT'S t/ON{OF 
YIXIR BUo!NE&S. 
\ 


I'M NOT SURE. :[ 
KNOW THAT f'L.L 

Photius 
SOME'HOW THAT .JUSf DofSN'T SOlAND RI41-\T. 


5 Little
The Daily Crossword 
girls' game 10 Fit 14 Leave one's 
,.,.,...."I":":""""'T:":~~ job 
15 Concur
1'!-:-+--t-t--i 16 Spanish being 17 See ~+--+-+--119 Arabian gulf 20 Descriptive of an arm position 21 Mutton'tl relative 23 Ale orde·r
-+--+---i 25 Close by· 26 Mexican fare 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 1 Lhasa-
Campus 
Friday, April15 
•3 
p.m. -Open House, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns, 

•3:15 
p.m. -Workshop, A Progressive-Liberal Business Policy in the U.S., David Carley, President, Carley Capital Group, Room 331 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Economics department, 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Evolution and Problems of Democratic Transitions in Authoritarian Regimes," Prof. Manuel Antonio Garreton, Univer­sity of Chicago, Room I20 I Memorial library, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute Lecture, 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Frege and the History of Philosophy: Three Perspectives," Prof. Michael Dummitt, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Philosophy Perspective Series 

•4:30 
p.m. -Colloquim, "A Connection Be­tween Algebraic and Differential Geometry," Prof. Shoshichi Kobayashi, University of California, Berkeley, Room 226 CCMB, Sponsored by Mathe­matics department 

•5:I5 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, Montenegro, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Communication and Theatre department, !2 

•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "Chesterton: Champion ofthe Universe," Rev. Stanley L. Jaki, Rare Book Room, Memorial Library 

•8 
p.m. -Dance, "The Dances of Isadora Dun­can," Kathleen Quinlan-Krichels, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by Performing Arts Series, S4 main floor, S3 balcony. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Business Associates Dinner Lecture, Donald McHenry, former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Carroll Hall 


Saturday, April16 
•8 
am.-3 p.m. -Test, Engineers-in-Training Ex­amination, Engineering Auditorium 

•12:30 
p.m. -Music, Collegiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Center, S3 for afternoon session 

•I 
p.m. -Tennis, Men vs. Michigan State, Courtney Courts 

•I 
p.m. -Baseball, Men vs. Indiana State, Jake Kline Field 

•I:30 
p.m. -Lacrosse, Men vs. Ohio Wesleyan, Alumni Field 

•8 
p.m. -Theatre, "An Evening of One-Act Plays", Underground Theatre, Washington Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC Theatre Dept., Free Admis­sion 


Sunday, April17 
•I 
p.m. -Reception, Opening Student Art Show, Dept. ofArt, Art History and Design, Snite Museum, 

•1:30 
p.m. -Dance Perfonnance, Abiogenesis Dance Collective, Snite Museum Atrium Sponsored by Snite Museum ' 

•3:30 
p.m. -Dance Perfonnance, Abiogenesis Dance Collective, Snite Museum Atrium, Sponsored by Snite Museum, 

•7 
p.m. -Rock in Retrospect, Jack Briganti, WSND-AM64 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, Discussion of the Bishops Statement on Nuclear Disarmament, Bishop of South Bend William McManus and Holy Cross Provincial Superior Father Richard Warner, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Minis­try 

•s 
p.m.-Theatre, An Evening of One-Act Plays, Underground Theatre, Washington fl ,,. Sponsored by ND/SMC Theatre Dept. 

•8 
p.m. -Festival ofNew Music Concert, Musk ofVincent Persichetti, Little Theatre, SMC 

•s 
p.n. -Liss Lecture, "The Logic of Political Terror: , Individual Calculation and Survival During the Holocaust," Alan S. Zuckerman, Brown University, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Theol­ogy Dept. 


Tonite -Canadian Importspecial 
(molson, labatts, &moosehead) 
Sat. -Kamikaze Special 
-
29 Sandy's response 32 Sadatof Egypt 
35 Stravinsky 
36 Putson notice 38 Inlet 39 Dalal­40 Unconscious 
states 41 Hand position 42 Kingdom: abbr. 43 New Mexico town 
44 Tamarisk 
45 Unbend 
47 Depot: abbr. 
48 Arabian prince 
49 Camelot lady 51 Hindu covering 53 License 
parts 57 Thin paper 61 Onetime TV 
talking 
horse 62 See 64 Stare 
rudely 65 Oil vessel 66 Author 
Hunter 67 Door 
openers 68 A Dickinson 69 Rue-Palx 
DOWN 1 Pastel 
shade 2-rock 3-Barranl, 
Egypt 
4 "-,o 
mores!" 5 Argo's 
skipper 6 Rep. 7 Tor 8 Bingo's 
cousin 
9 Cartype 10 Tar 11 Sponsor 12 VIrginia 
willow 
13 Bivouac shelter 18 Baseball stats 22 Oolong and 
souchong 24 Claws 26 Doorman 27 "But war's -" 28 All 30 Send back 31 To-do 33 Bridal path 34 Tax man 36 Wltha 
needle: 
comb. form 37 Lao-­41 Hungry 43 Wayout 46 Positive 
poles .w. Buffalo .ilaterway 50 Sangladesh 
~lty 
52 Up­
(comered) 53 With frenzy 54 Eggon 
55~.. 56 Conceited 58 Golfer 
Ballesteros 
to friends 59 Single 60 Ferberor 
Millay 63 Measurement letters 

All organizations interested in sponsoring a rnovie 
in either semester nextyear should pick up an 
Ha'p_py Hour Today 4:00-7:00
application at the Office of Student Activities. 

,.
DRAFT SPECIAL
Applications must be returned by friday, April 15 
J, 

-~---~-~--~----~---~-~. -----------~----..---~-~-~-~-~-~------------------,____ 
Andree on the 7th day 'having a great time' 
ByJEFF BLUMB dislocated his shoulder as his team Sports Writer was leading Team 372 by a IS-7 margin. Eraci left the game at that 
It was like reliving old times 
time and his team still went on to the good times -for Tim Andree win 2I-I 0, outscoring their op­last night in Bookstore XII action. 
ponent 6-3 despite playing with only The senior center of the Irish var­four people. sity, at times relegated to bench duty One could only call the game be­this past season, was the big star as tween 430 and John Delorean Says 
his team, Bad to the Bone, rolled to Coke Is It a marathon. When it was an easy 21-2 victory over Four finally over, 430 had come out on Tylenols and a Cyanide. top 26-24. 
This was no ordinary night for Highly regarded W.E.B.B.'s Andree. Besides shooting an Encore also advanced to the third awesome I4-I6 from the field, round of Bookstore XII yesterday, 
Andree also lead all players with 7 beating The Beer Hunters by a 2I-H rebounds. score. ''I'm having a great time playing in Senior Bob Keenahan, a Mr. the tournament," said Andree later. Bookstore his freshman year, keyed 
"It's something I've been looking W.E.B.B.'s attack with his six points. forward to for four years. Mike Fellow Howard Hall resident and Walsh and I went to the same high 
teammate Mike Stepanek also added school and we have wanted to play six himselffor W.E.B.B.'s. together since we both came to Rousseau's Noble Savages, a team Notre Dame. that plays like a team perhaps better 
Andree also noted the differences than any other in the tournament, between playing in Bookstore and also put itself into the third round, for Notre Dame. "I think that I've winning 2I-9 over Chang's Gang. 
taken more shots in two games than Having a little beef on your side I took all year for the Irish. And never hurts. Nor did it hurt Team there's not as much pressure to per­387 as they beat The Tormentors form, either. You don't have Digger 2I-16. Despite somewhat mediocre around telling you want you can and 
shooting, 387 was able to rebound can't do." most of their shots, lead by Bob Going on at the other Lyons court Clasby and Mark Zavagnin who had at the same time was a game some­
13 a piece. what similar to that of Bad to the And in the day's big surprise, The Bone. Macnamera's Band, paced by 
Bleeding Ax Wounds upset M.C.O.B. Joe Johnson's 10 for I8 shooting, 21-19. M.C.O.B. was thought to have also won going away, 21-2. a chance to go very far in the tourna­
If anyone ever thought that Love ment. and the Shooting Stars would be a For the third time in Bookstore one man team, Karl Love being the XII a team was disqualified for using 
-one, he couldn't have been more in­an ineligible player. This time, Team correct. Love scored but one point 509 used a player who had played yesterday in his team's game with the previous day. The player, when Harold Washington and ... confronted about it during the Instead, it was Keith Marrero and game, denied it so Commissioner Chris Brown who did all the scoring. Dziedzic has barred him from ever 
Marrero connected on 8 of his II playing in Bookstore again. He is on­shots while Brown hit on 7 of I3 as ly a freshman. Love and the ShootingStars also won BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -Poor 
by a 21-2 score. weather continues to plague this 
Seeded Showdown also ran off to year's tournament. Yesterday's ac­an easy victory, beating God's Own tion was played under strong winds Drunks 21-7. Phil Carter led all that made shooting difficult. "The scorers with seven points. wind really hurt shoot~ng," ob-
In the day's blood and guts game, Morrissey Hall sophomore Jim Eraci See BOOKSTORE, page 15 
The Observer /Pete Laches 
Two of the many candidates trying to win a spot petition from teammates as many linemen with ex­on the defensive line are No.92 Greg Dingens and perience are battling for jour positions. Tim Doyle No.94 Jerry Weinle, both shown here kneeling takes a look at the line in today's football feature. 
during play last season. Both men face tough com-
Blache concerned 
Irish defensive line unsettled 
By TIM DOYLE that if the players continue to work but he needs to be more intimidat­!.ports Writer hard and the improvement con­ing on the field." 
tinues, we can reach last year's Challenging Golic for the end Concern and optimism. level." position is sophomore Shawn Hef­These are the feelings the Notre Lost from last years line due to fern. Heffern, 6-5, 235-pounds, was Dame football coaching staff has for graduation are Kevin Griffith at end named one of the top SO players in defensive line as it prepares for and Bob Clasby at contain tackle. Be­the nation as a senior by Football 1983. tween the two players the defensive News and was voted l'PI Indiana 
The 1982 defensive line was com­line is losing 9 years ofexperience. Player of the Year. monly referred to as the Gold Rush The apparent heir to Griffith's end "Heffern has the physical stren­because of its great pass rushing position is junior Mike Golic. Golic, ngth we are looking for, but he abilities. Due to graduation losses 6-S, 240-pounds, has seen a fair needs to work on his pass coverage." and a lack of experience, the 1983 amount of playing time. Golic commennts Blache. defensive line has its work cut out played backup to Griffith for most of Also expected to challenge at the for it in order to earn such a last season. He started the Arizona end position is incoming freshman nickname. game when Griffith was injured. Robert Banks. Banks, 6-5, 235­
Head defensive line Coach Greg "Mike Golic has the speed re­pounds, is aParade All-American. Blache says, "We have a lot of talent quired to drop offand cover the pass "Robert Banks should be a very and depth, but we lack experience routes," notes Blache, "but he needs strong challenger to Golic and Hef­which is very important. At this to work on building up his strength fern in the fall," says Blache. "He has point we are not at the level of play in order to battle the offensive of last year's line. "I am confident tackles. He gets the job done now, See LINE, page 12 

O'Leary, lacrosse team fight for recognition 
Minor program tries to overcome a Midwestern unfamiliarity with sport 
By MIKE SULLIVAN that makes things difficult for O'Leary and his squad. Assistant Sports Editor With only a small core of diehard fans at the home games, it must get frustrating to know that all the time 
"Hey, you u•cmna xo to the lat:rosse game this after­you spend practicing each afternoon is going unnoticed noon? If they heat Ohio Wesle:;•an today, they're tied hy the student body. for first in the league." _,.... "You get disappointed when you go to other places 
"Lacrosse.' Obio Wesleyan? Are you kiddinx?" and see the student support." admits O'Leary. "I feel had for the kids who play for me that don't get the support
t 
The Notre Dame lacrosse program is undergoing a that they deserve." severe identity crisis. Of course, almost all the minor They don't get too much support from the athletic sports at Notre Dame are too, hut their problems are department either. There are no scholarships for nothing compared to the problems of Rich O'Leary's lacrosse players. Obviously. this makes recruiting very lacrosse team. diftkult. When the competition tiJr good recruits is 
You see, nobody at ~otre Dame seems to know what schools like Johns Hopkins, Harvard. and Cornell, the lacroso;e is. ·They just remember that guys wear funny good academic reputation of Notre Dame does not have helmets, carrying strange-looking sticks, and whip a the effect that it usually has. very hard ball at a poor go.tltendcr. And many Midwes­The athletic department knows what is going on. terners don't even know that much. though. It realizes that lacrosse docs not get the support 
But, believe it or not, lacrosse is a very popular sport that a team that receives scholarships should get. It also in a lot of places back east. As a matter offact, it was the realizes that, if the team were to receive financial aid, major sport at my high school in lacrosse-crazy Bal­soon there would be no good competition for it in the timore. Football anl,l basketball were popular, too, but Midwest, forcing the squad to the East where the com­lacrosse combined parts of both of them with some petition was. That would -involve a lot of money which, facets ofhockey. The fact that it was played in the spring ifthe hockey situation is any indication, is not available. when the weather was warm and the summer was The answer, then, would seem to be that, if you can't nearing also made it popular. 
See LACROSSE, page 17
But the Midwest is not yet aware of these things, and 


