Drum majorette -page 8 

VOL XVIII, NO. 34 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1983 

Playboy's Hefner sparks controversy 
By PAUL McGINN Stepan Center, the second largest as­Executive Editor sembly hall on campus, for the lecture. The Athletic and Convoca· 
Christie Hefner, president of tion Center is Notre Dame's largest Playboy Enterprises, Inc., will speak assembly hall. on "Playboy Enterprises as a Busi­Amy Horvath, a member of Hef­ness Entity" tomorrow as part of the ner's staff and coordinator of her College ofBusiness Administration's visit to Notre Dame, told The Ob­
lecture series. server "it would not be appropriate 
But Hefner's appearance has to comment on the visit." caused at least one faculty member to accuse the University of"failing to live up to the ideals of the Church." 
Charles Rice, law professor and abortion critic, also says Hefner's ap­pearance is a "disgrace." 
Rice termed Hefner's involve­ment in Playboy "totally antithetical Th~ Observer/Hamil Cupero to everything the Church teaches. At some time, the alumni are going to
Saint Mary's student Amy Wright receives the
"" wake up (and demand an end to
Earnstand Wbinney BusinessAward last night in
Business award 
visits such as Hefner's)."
the Haggar Center. A banquet was held in her 
He also accused the University of

honor to celebrate the award ceremony. 
attempting to "downplay" Hefner's visit. Michael Garvey, assistant director 
Hugh Hefner 

of Information Services, told The Observer "the University doesn't Larry Ballinger, director of the have anything to hide." Master of Business Administration 

Former Japanese minister found 
"Any department at Notre Dame Program and campus coordinator 
is allowed to do whatever it wants to for Hefner's visit, was in Philadelphia smen have been tried since January The Lockheed scandal surfaced in do as far as our department is con­and unavailable for comment. 1977 in three separate trials in the testimony before a U.S. Senate sub­cerned ... we're neither boosting it Frank Reilly, dean of the College 
TOKYO -A japanese lower Lockheed case. committee in February 1976 when nor hiding it; we're just publicizing of Business Administration, also was court found former Prime Minister Before yesterday's decision, 10 it was disclosed that the Burbank, it," Garvey said. unavailable. Kalruei Tanaka guilty yesterday of defendants were convicted of graft, Calif.-based aerospace firm had set Kevin Misiewicz, Arthur Young Hefner, named president of 
accepting more than S2 million in perjury or foreign exchange viola­aside Sl2 million to purchase in­Faculty Fellow in Taxation Accoun­Playboy corporation in 1982 by her bribes to promote the sale of tions. One was too ill to stand trial. fluence inJapan. tancy, told The Observer he was father Hugh Hefner, oversees a Lockheed Corp. aircraft in Japan, Prosecutors in the Tokyo District "uncomfortable" with Hefner's visit. multi-million dollar conglomerate according toJapaese news reporters Court trial demanded the maximum Tanaka, now 65, was arrested on "There must be some other very which is listed in Fortune magazine in the courtroom. sentence for Tanaka -five years in charges of violating Japan's foreign good role models ofwomen making as one of the 500 largest corpora­The Tokyo District Court ruling prison and a S2 million fine. exchange laws in July 1976. He was profits in types of businesses a lot tions in the U t .S. culminated a seven-year trial in Political stakes in Japan were later charged with taking bribes more appropriate to the goals of Hugh Hefner, who began publish­which 16 government and airline of­riding on the verdict. routed through the trading firm Notre Dame," he said. ing Playboy magazine in .1953, 
ficials and Lockheed agents were Tanaka resigned as premier in Marubeni Corp., then serving as , Misiewicz said Hefner probably serves as Playboy Enterprise's presi­charged in Japan's biggest postwar 1974 in the wake of another unr­Lockheed's sales agent, during his was picked over other women, be­. dent and chiefexecutive officer. scandal. elated fmancial scandal. But he was tenure as prime minister. Tanaka cause as head of Playboy En­Ms. Hefner also will hold a news 
Tanaka was accused of accepting re-elected to the Diet (parliament) denied the charges in co ..urt. terprises, "she would attract a heck conference at 11 a.m. in Room 206 the 500 million yen to promote the in 1980 and remained Japan's top of a lot more listeners than a less ofthe Center for Continuing Educa· sale of Lockheed TriStar passenger political power broker as leader of In 1979, Lockheed pleaded guilty 1 known businesswoman." tion and attend a reception at the jets in Japan when he served as the governing Liberal Democratic to U.S. federal charges ofconcealing He noted that the College booked Morris Inn after the 7 p.m. lecture. prime minister from 1972-1974. Party's largest faction. payments to Japanese officials, 
All Nippon Airways, Japan's lar­Prime Minister Yasuhiro including Tanaka. The company was gest domestic airline, bought 20 of Nakasone was elected last year with fmed $647,000. Lockheed's L-1101 wide-bodied crucial backing from Tanaka. -The defense denied that Tanaka 

guilty of taking Lockheed bribes 
Career day features 
TriStars between 1974-1978. Nakasone rejected opposition received or knew of any money Sixteen high-ranking Japanese demands that he persuade Tanaka to changing hands -even in the form government officials and busines-resign. ofa political contribution. 

jobs for AL majors 


Hall president's council passes 
revised dorm party proposal 
ByJANE KRAVCIK on alcohol will be made by Brian Callaghan, Father Mal· News Staff loy, Father Tyson, and Father Beauchamp, all of whom are members ofthe Alcohol Commision. 
Hall presidents were asked to encourage contribu­Also discussed was the HPC Party Proposal, which tions to the United Way fu~d drive last night at the Hall was sent to the rectors for their approval after the Sept. Presidents Council meeting at Morrissey Hall. 20 HPC meeting. The proposal was returned to the 
HPC President Mike Carlin urged the HPC to "push council this week with two additional guidelines. The the drive hard.". He observed that the drive has only first guideline stipulates the specifics of how the collected S200 so far this year as opposed to $6000 at proposal would be implemented. These would be this point in the drive last year. worked out with each rector. The second guideline 
One reason ·that was suggested for the low student provides for the evaluation ofthe proposal at the end of response this year was the beliefof many students that the first semester. money collected will go to organizations which fund HPC passed the revised proposal and decided that it abortions, such as Planned Parenthood. Carlin said that will go into effect on the first week-end after fall break. this belief was false." Saint Joseph County United Way The Council also discussed possible projects for HPC does not give give any money to Planned Parenthood to work on this year. nor does the money go to any other United Way agency Carroll Hall President Owen Murray suggested which supports Planned Parenthood." working on laundry. "Why are the men forced to use 
Carrie Altergott, Pasquerilla East President, made Saint Michael's laundry?" he asked. suggestions for future drives. "Next year, it should be Susan Joyce, Lyon's president, suggested a project on more organized with more publicity. We should learn alternative meal plans. One alternative which could be from this year." explored is "a point system like the one at Duke Univer· 
The HPC was invited to an Alcohol Forum on Wed­sity which allows students to vary meal plans and be nesday, October 12, at 7pm in Zahm Hall. Presentations more flexible," she said. 
ByJOHN NEBLO about the job you are interviewing News Staff for." "Career Day will provide students 
Arts and Letters majors will find with the opportunity to learn about proof that there are jobs for those career areas that interest them, and who graduate with an AL degree if to discover career areas they never they attend the 5th Annual Arts and knew existed," Reynolds said. 
Letters Career Day. "Many Arts. and Letters students 
The career day, sponsored by aren't aware of the career oppor­Career and Placement Services, will tunities available to them. Now is be held tomorrow 12-4 p.m. in the the time to look into those pos­LaFortune Student Center. sibilities." Representatives from thirty dif­And for those who already know ferent Arts and Letter career areas what they want to do? "Ifyou are in· will be featured. terested in banking, then talk to a 
The role of the representatives banker. Students should ask the will be strictly informational, representatives what they like and according to Paul Reynolds, assis· dislike about their jobs. See if that tant director of Career and Place-career is really for you." ment Services and organizer of the career day. The representatives, Career and Placement Services who will be available to answer has printed a checklist of 23 questions students have concerning "Questions to Ask," to aid students career areas, will not recruit. new to the job search game. The 
Stressing the need to acquire checklist and a list of the 30 career 
vocational information early, areas will be available to students at 
Reynolds said he encourages under-the LaFortune ballroom. In addition, 
classmen to attend. "There is no way the representatives have been asked 
you can interview successfully as a to bring additional career literature 
senior, if you don't know anything which students may ask for. 
-----------~ --~-~ 
• 

The Observer Wednesday, October 12, 1983-page 2 

In Brief · · 
The College of Engineering and tht: Collt:gt: ofScit·tKe together attrat·t slightly mort: than halfoftht: 370 fordgn Mudcnt~ t·tuolkd thb semt:stl'f at tht: I inivt:rsity. Engint:t:ring t:n­rolls ...,0 graduatt: stud~:nts and 32 undngraduatt:s. whik Scit·nct: has Hl) graduatt· students ami ·i undt:rgraduates. The most popular majors on the graduate levd art: t·hemistry ( 32 ). dectrical engineer­ing ( 2'i) and physics ( 24 ). Apart from scknce and t:ngineering, the master's in business administration program ( 2H) is most popular on tht: post-haccalaurt:att: level. In total, thert: are 2SO advanced stu­dt:nts and 120 undngraduates. India, with 'i I students, leads the otht:r 6;\ countries contributing students, with Canada second with 
27. Clost· behind it are Taiwan with 2'i and China with 23, according to a report from Fatht·r Thomas Tallarida, C.S.C., dirt:ctor of tht: Oftkt· of International Stud~:nt Affairs. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Students interested in applying for scholarships from tht: Rotary Foundation will he meeting this after­noon at 4 in room 121 O'Shaughn~:ssy. The scholarship~ are in­tendt:d to support graduate study in foreign countries, and five grants are availahk to students. Tht: t~:rms of the scholarships vary, hut most covt•r tuition, room and hoard. -The Observer 
Donald Kelly, president and chief executive otficn of Esmark. Inc., a S6.j billion conglomerate, will discuss his company's rnTnt acquisition ofNorth Simon, Inc. this afternpon at 4 
p.m. in room I 22 llayes-lkaly. Kelly will describe his plans for fit­ting the billion-dollar company into the Esmark corporate structure. 
.-The Ohsen,er .. 
.... 
-·. !' . . " 
Amnesty International, the internationaplUman · rights group conn:rned with gaining the release ofprisioners ofcon­science, will hold its montly meeting today in room 304 of the i,J:ag­
gar College Center, Saint Mary's. Topics to be discusse<t, tonight. include the death penalty and problems in Argentina. -The Ob­server 
The Brazilian economic crisis wm be the subject of a faculty/graduate student seminar this afternoon from 
4:1 'i p.m.to 6 p.m. Dr. Werner Baer, an economist from the Univer­sity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, will speak at the seminar in room 115 of the Law School Building. -The Observer 
Expo' Roma will be held today in the Architecture 
Gallery. Tht: exhibition, which will run all day, consists ofwork com­
pktt·d hy architecture stutknts who studied in Rome during the 
I ')H2-H5 acadt·mic year. The featured works include watercolors, skt:tches, de~ign projects, and photography. There will also be a ren·ption at 4:50p.m. and a ('ontinuously running slide show.-The Obsen•er 
The Music Department is sponsoring Craig Cramt:r and the Notre Damt• Chorale, conducted by Carl Stam, in an evt·ning conn·rt ofchoral and organ music hyJohannes Brahms. The performann· will be at H p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The chorale is composnl of umkrgraduate· and graduate men and women from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's -The Observer 
A Navy amphibiousgroupcarrying some 2,000 Marines is en route to tht· Indian Ocean amid Iranian threats to close the Persian Gulf and cut off the movement of oil tankers, it was learned yesterday. Pentagon sources said the amphibious group headed by the 40,000-ton amphibious assault ship Tarawa passed through the Sut·z Canal yesterday under orders to sail into the Indian Ocean. The Pentagon sources, who asked not to be identified, suggested the amphibious force and its Marine complement have been detacht·d from the Beirut region because the cease-fire in the Lebanese civil war appeared to be holding, and as a result, danger to the 1,600 Marines ashore in the Bdrut area seems to have diminished. -AP 

Weather 
Seventy per cent chance or thundershowers today. High in mid to upper 60s. An 80 percent chance of rain tonight.Low in upper '50s. Cloudyand cooler tomorrow with good chanceofrain. High around 60. 



Street people 
I can still r~:member how strange it felt to hear a grown man cry. 
Dave Sarphie 
Our city's contact for the Urban Plunge program had brought us to a church gym-turned night shelter, where 
Assistant News Editor 
more than two hundred homeless "street people," mostly men, were given reprieve from the cold,January Inside Wednesday 
night. 
As I attempted to fall asleep while 200 snores echoed 
through the gym, I began to notice a strange, sobbing 
sound mixed in with the other sounds. Just then, one of currently addressing these problems. 
the helpers at the shelter, who had just completed a Although some students might help out in a soup-line 
two-hour watch, entered the back room where I was. or, as in my case, help at a night shelter, work is not the 
"Doesn't it sound like someone is crying," I asked. focus ofthe two-day program; awareness is. 
"That's one of the regulars here," she replied. "He Often the students travel streets and pass through 
often wakes up sobbing or crying." neighborhoods that they have seen before from their 
"Why?" I wondered aloud. "He seemed as happy as car windows. Only this time, the students stop and talk 
the rest ofthe group earlier tonight." to the people who live in these neighborhoods and wit­
She looked at me sharply for a moment before reply­ness living condillons that they never noticed before. 
ing, "How can you really be happy when you have On the day following our stay at the night shelter, for 
hungry children at home example, our group toured 
and don't even have a bed of 
[3D!A00 

various housing projects 
your own to sleep in?" throughout the Atlanta area. Hours earlier, we had ~ We saw apartment com-stood in line outside the plexes designed so poorly
p

shelter with thest· same that run-offfrom spring rains people people who annually flooded first floor seemingly had little to hope rooms. Other housing
L 

for, little to brighten their projects were troubled by
Udim lives. What had struck poor heating and sewage me, however, was the unex-systems. Integral to the pected friendliness of the success of the Urban Plunge
N 

group, especially those ' ' /. . "" /' program is the knowkdgt: whom my contact later · ~ · ~ G and experience of the rderre.d to as :·regulars" at ' '. ~ ""\ Y/7 P' . r:" various city contacts. In my
~ 
.. p-

the; shelter. Being a bit naive ~ --~ case, the city contact knew 
going into pwgram, f' ' .::::._._\ \.£· V/tY~ ---::::;;:;;;-to from
the I wJ:iat expect the Qad aJmoat expected ..them ~~~~ "street· people" anq ,kn~:w to•he bitte-r tow~rd someone ;, '\')-what problems faceq the who_ hadn't • _the _same ~~ . ~ housing projects we visited. WQC.t:ies or proble;:~s they ·~. ,, , •· •' , _l;lad I even the chance to ,Pad. , ; . ~;:;} visit these desperate areas·at any other time, I wo.uld not 
I remembe.r listeningas one offhose in line described have been able to discern· the reasons for the-area's his joy at finding a pair of shoes' fur 25 cents at a local problems. Salvation Army store. Hearing this, his friend had joked, Safety is often a question that concerns students "Yeah, but the shoes are probably holier than any minis-thinking about the Urban Plunge for the first time. Per­ter's." These people seem happy tnough, I had thought haps this is the area in which the city contact is of to myself. greatest importance. In my case, the contact acted as a 
As I discovered that night, however, the outward ex-mediator between our group and the residents of the pression of laughter and joviality does not necessarily apartments we toured and the people we saw at the indicate inward happiness. shelter. Never did I feel threatened. 
The Urban Plunge is not necessarily the most 
Mine was one of many widely-varying experiences pleasant experience in the world, but it is one that I will last January, as more than 250 students participated in not soon forget. the Urban Plunge program in 58 locations throughout the United States, its territories, and Mexico. 
Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, the The opinions expressed in the Inside column program provides a unique opportunity for socially­are those ofthe author and do not necessari­conscious students to get a first-hand look at the ly reflect the views of The Observer or its problems facing urban areas and the various programs editorial board. 

r----------------~
I INFLATION ~ I I GOIYOUI I 1 BLOOD I 
Composilicm Editor.... Suzanne and Troy Composition Assistant..... Tom and Mara Typesellers ...................... Ted and Michelle 
I BOILING? I 
News lidltor...............................................)elf Cop_v Editor .................................... Kathleen 
I We can help relieve I
Sports Cop_J• Editor............................... Mary Features Cop_}• Editor ............................ Rob 
I some of. that pressure! I 
Editorials Layout.................................. Tom Features Layout .................................... Mary ND Day Editor.................................. Barhara 

I HOW7wewill pay you I 
SMC Da_y Editor............................ Mary Ann Ad Desfgn................................................... l!ill 
I up to $16 CASH Per week lor your time. I
Pbotograpber..................... Hamil and Pete 
I It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfy I 
Quote of/be Da_y 

I reclining chairs while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. I
Ob to be borne In Newjersey 

I You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your 1I second donation within the same week...AND we will give you a I free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. 
I PLUS I
I I
We Will Give You an Additional 
I $4 If you bring this ad with you. 1
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) 1s 
published Monday through Fnday 
1 ·roiler applicable to first ttme donors only!) I 
and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation 
I 1
For more information call 
pertods The Obeerver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and 
1 234·6010 orcomeby515 LincolnwayWest 
Satnl Marys College. SubscnpllOns may be purchased for $25-ptH year 
I , " r ~ «:'.,. ~ Bring your I.D. 1 
($15 per semester) by writing The Obeerver. P.O. Box 0. Notre 

AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 1 
Dame. Indiana 46556. 

A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others I
The Obeerwr is a member of 
The Aaoc:l.red Preaa. All I Tues and Sat 8am-5pm 1 
reproductiOn r1ghts are reserved. 

I Wed and Frl 9am-5pm 1 
·----------------­
:·... ")."" .:, ·. 
....:._.-... ... ] ~ .' ...,. .. ,.. 






The Observer 

jounzalist Michael Luhan was reportedly captured by El Sal­vadoran rebels earlier this year. Story below. 
The Center For Social Concerns is taking applications for the position of 
RespoiiSihilities lnchlde: -Getting infonnation on opportunities in the area of peace to the students in your hall. -Acting as a liason between students and the Coordinator for Peace Opportunities. -Attending a monthly meeting. 
Those interested should fill out and submit an ap­plication, available on the Social Concerns bulletin boards in the halls and return it to Sharon Murphy at the Center for Social Concerns by Monday, October 17. 

Wednesday, October 12, 1983-page 3 



Futurist prof predicts 'floaters' by year 2100 
By KEITH HARRISON 
News Staff 
Within one century, the average person will be capable of travelling at a speed of 6000 miles per hour, says Princeton professor Gerard K. O'Neill. 
O'Neill, who lectured last night on the future ofEarth and space, was speaking of an inner-city transporta­tion device known as a "floater." 
A floater, O'Neill stated, will be a two person pressurized capsule that will travel through a vaccuum tube. It will "float", said O'Neill, via mag­netic fields. and have a maximum possible speed of 6000 miles per hour. 
According to O'Neill, hoth the Germans and the Japanese have made significant advances in the production of a floater. "And what are we doing?" O'Neill asked. "Amtrak." 
O'Neill also stated that the most likely product from space will he energy. In one hundred years, he es­timated, the world will be using fif­teen times the amount of energy it uses today. This amount of energy is not beyond Earth's ecological capabilities, O'Neill claims, provided that the energy is "generated correctly." 
Space satelite power stations are 

By DOLLY DUFFY 
News Staff 
Notre Dame is having a birthday 
-party for sixteenth century artist Raphael Sanzio. The conference celebcating the 500th birthday of the artist will be held October 13-14 and will take place in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
hael's work and how it perpetuates 
certain ideas. As part ofa world-wide 
recognition of Raphael, the con­
ference has uniquely included a dis­
cussion on Raphael's legacy and the 
impact of his life and his work on 
later artists." 
"Raphael, a classical, high renais­
sance artist, portrayed the cultural 
and religious ideals of the sixteenth 
century," Rosenberg continued. 
With this he combined "the strings 
of innovation to synthesize It into 
something new." 
• , . A painlina cn&hkd ~Sc:hooLofAt­

O..!IIII'I•at:tJI.-n.· , ......._ .. war.-_da«d a., ..........._as 
JoUrnallst lectures ,-·... on Salvadoran strife 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. A freelance journalist held prisoner by leftist guerrillas in El Salvador last spring says he still can't decide how the l'nited States should respond to Central American strife. 
"When I was preparing for this speech, I found I was trying to lay out some sort of prescription about how to solve the dilemma ofCentral America. I still don't have the answers," Michael Luhan of 
perceives a changing attitude among 
U.S. officials toward the war-torn countries. State Department officials who work directly with Central America "no longer have a knee-jerk reaction," he said. 
Six months ago, Luhan was working for the Dallas Monzing News when he was caught in the middle ofEI Salvador's civil war. For 18 days he was marched through the countryside by leftist guerillas. Luhan was rescued by a peasant when he collapsed from fatigue near a village. 

Dr. Gerard O'Neill 
the only feasible way to provide this amount ofenergy, O'Neill said. 
"The engineering technology for such a space power station will be ready by 1987," O'Neill estimated. "And each station should only cost ahout as much as the Alaska pipeline did." 



Conference features Raphael 
Professor John D'Amico·of George Mason University entitled "The ldelogical Foundations ofJulian and Leonine Rome: Theology and Clas­SICISm in Roman Humanist Thought." All lectures will be free of charge and the public is encouraged to attend. 
Professor of art history
.__.__... 
. .•·
~·-­


pu·~~~~~~~' }l
of'lii... .., }tdllfint~-., 

... --. 
give ll lcctUFe. tonight at Saint-­Mary's Colkgc as scholar-In­residence. 
Her public lecture on Artemesia Gentileschi, a I 7th-century woman artist will be offered at 7pm in the Cushwa-Leighton Library Media Center. There is no admission charge. 
Harris, who received a senior fel­lowship from the National Endow­ment for the Humanities last year, has written over 60 books and ar­ticles, including the exhibition catalog Women Artists, 1550-1950. Andrea Sacchi, and Selected Drawings by Gian Lorenzo Bernini. 
Currently, she is working on a com­
plete catalog of the drawings and 
paintings ofBernini. 
Considered an expert o.n Renais­sance and Baroque art, Harris has served as visiting professor and lec­turer at the University of Texas­Arlington, Columbia University, Yale University and the New York University Institute of Fine Arts. She also has held professorships at New York-Alhany, Hunter College and the University of Leeds in England. 
Harris received her bachelor's de­gree and Ph.D. from the University ofLondon. In 1981 she was awarded an honorary doctor of arts degree from Eastern Michigan University. She has earned feiJowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and the Ford Foundation as well as a John Simon Guggenheim Fellow­ship. 
The professor has also worked in 
an administrative capacity at the Na­
tional Education Association and the 
College Art Association. 
consultants to Multinational 
firms seek qualified 1ndiv1duals w1th language and area expertise on foreign markets. Our clients prefer foreign nationals with advanced deQrees from American Univer­snies. VISa restrictions might not apply to some of the available projeciS. Part-time and lull-time assignments available. Fee Paid. 
Send resume or request lor application form to: 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine Dept: B-33 PO. Box A3629 Chicago. Illinois 60690 



Thursday Night Buffet 
is back ...... . 
. • ~ ..... -.... ·....~;;.. '4 

The Observer Wednesday, October 12, 1983-page 4 

Debut of 'The Right Stuff' draws attention to Glenn as moral hero 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<iTON-"Superman Ill" 
).(Ot a presidential ren·ption. "All the 
President's 1\kn" drew everybody 
hut till' had ~uys. Now "The Right 
Stull" b openin~ to an intri~uin~ 
mixture of Hollywood hype and 
Washin~ton anxkty. 
The hoopla: a Potomac Rivt·r air 
~how, movil' cekhritit·~ ruhhin~ d­
how~ with political cekbritie~. a 
thou~and twopk dinin~ on mt·dail­
lon de \Tau. All to peddk a movie 
about pilot~ and a~tronaut~. 
l·.tllt-r anxit·ty, ~ta~e kit. 
l'olittci;ttt~. with no precnknt to 
~o hy wondt·r what d"ti.-ct the 
ntovil-·, tlallerin~ portr.tit of John 
<detln will have on lti~ prt·stdentLtl 
d!all<T'. The a~tronaut turtH'U 
~cnator turned cmdidall· may be 
womkrin~ hirnsdf. lk ha~n't 
Military rules sentence is 'too vague' 
Associated Pres~ 
WASHINGTON -The t:.s. Court 
of Military Appeals, rutin~ that the 
military capital punishment law is 
unconstitutionally va).(Ut', ovcr­
turtu·d tht· death sentt·nce yesterday 
of an Army private convicted of rape 
and murdt·r. 
At the samt· time. in a move which ddt·nSt· lawyers said wa~ unusual, the military's hi~hest court left open a lJO-day period in which the presi­dent or Con~ress could rewrite the I>eknst· Department's sentencing 
pron·dures and reimpose the death pt·nalty on Wyatt 1.. Matthews. 
Matthews, 26, was convicted in llJ7l) of raping and stabbing to death Phyllis Jean Villanueva, a substitute librarian at a U.S. Army camp in <iraknwodu, West (it·rmany. 
dicussed the film and won't attend the premiere -but he has paid S50,000 to televise his first national campai~n ad during prime time the night before the premiere. 
His campaign office said the timing is just a coincidence. 
The American Film Institute, a non-protlt oranization that exists to preserve tllm and tdevision heritage and to advance the art. hopes to ckar more than S200,000 from premil-rt·s of the Ladd Company's 
$20 million rt·ndition of Tom 
Wolk's pat·an to test pilots and 
astronauts. The movie will have its 
Waslun~!On premiere Sunday. an At· 
lanta premiere Monday and a 
Cltica~o premit·rt· \X t·dnesday. 
The Wa~hin~ton kickoff i~ the hig 
om·. All I, l·t2 st·ats in Kennnly Cen­
ter have htTn ~old. with 1it·kt·t prices 
ran~ing from S I 50 to S250. There 
havr: htTn a dozen S I0.000 con­
I rihtttions. 
"The Ri~ht St uft" tells the story of America's entry into the space a~e. from the sound harrier-busting lli~hts of Chuck Yeager through the six !lights or the Mercury astronauts 

-including Glenn's historic three orbits. Glenn comes off on the big screen as an All-American hero, a bit moralistic, but a family man con­cerned about the astronauts' image. 
In one of the most effective 
scenes, Glenn's wife Annie, a stut­
terer, wants to keep Vice President 
Lyndon Johnson out of her house 
while Glenn is on his history-making 
!light. Johnson, fuming outside the 
house. applies pressure through 
NASA; Glenn backs up Annie. 
Actor Ed Harris plays Glenn as a (iod-fearing, steel-willed patriot givl:'n to saying things like. "I just thank <iod I live in a country where the best and finest in a man em be brought out." He knows he's agung­ho type and once asb Annie, "You think I'm a Dudley Do-right'" Mrs. 
Glenn nods her hc:ad, yes. In tht· largl· cast. only Yea~er comes oil looking better than Glenn. 
Yeager. who plays a barllv in the movit·. and four of thl' Mercur)· astron.tut!> will be guests -along with thl:'ir actor doubles -at a din­ncr Saturday for the companies that contributed S I 0,000 or more to American Film Institute. 

The Irish Gardens 
Stay on campus and save $ $ $ by letting us take care of your flower needs 
Dial M-U-M-8 (6867) to place an order 
• 
Located off the lfazz in the basement of LaFortune 
Hours: 12:30-5:30 
Lets talk 



about the summer 

of '84. 
If you are thinking that far ahead, we may have a 1ob for you. 
W R. Grace & Co. is looking for outstanding undergraduates to join us in a summer intern program between 
iunior and senior years. 
We are looking for especially talented: 
ACCOUNTING AND ENGINEERING MAJORS 
Students with outstanding academic records and with a demonstrated interest in outside activities ...Men and women with a genuine interest in business and with that special mix of imagination, ability and foresight necessary for success ... Individuals of inordinate curiosity, and the willingness to learn in an unstructured environment. 
In a recent summer, one of our recruits spent her two months in Belgium doing marketing research. One came to New York for a special projed in our Corporate Finance Department and another spent the summer with one of our Chemical Divisions as a Process Engineer. 

As your placement officer will tell you, our global interests in chemicals, natural resources and consumer products offer a rare diversity of opportunity. 
We will be on your campus soon. If this idea challenges you-and you enjoy a challenge-take some time now to outline your qualifications in a thoughtful letter to: 
Manager of College Relations 
WR. Grace & Co. 
Grace Plaza 

1114 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New York 10036 
One step ahead of a changing world. 





GRACE
chemicals • natural resources • consumer products 

AP Photu 
~ew position 
Edu•ard Rollins. pictured in his Washington office, is slated to become director ofPresident Reagan's re-election u•hen the cam­paign committee is created October 17. 

Columbus Day Special 
REFRIGERATORS 
$35 per School Year 
FREE DELIVERY 


cALL Taylor Rental 277.2190 
1427 N.lronwood 
..--~-------.----~clip &save-•••--••••••t 
the I I 
I 
I

DELI I 
I
1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN I I 
I
PARTY SUBS I I 
I 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses I I & Choice of Toppings I 
I 
I
3 feet serves 20·25 ... $30.00 
I 4 feet serves 25·30 ... $37 .50 I 5 feet serves 30·35 ... $45.00 6 feet serves 35-40 ... $50.00 
ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS I &SALADS 

255-7797 I 
I I 
I
Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance I Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 I I Jeff Etoll, owner, N D '78 I 
___..JI 
._________ ...Ell 
• cup & save------~·· ..• 
--------------------------------------...., The Observer Wednesday, October 12, 1983-page 5 

University Registrar plans new system to shorten registration lines 
By TOM POWERS dent's class schedule will be mailed school on time and enroll," Winicur News Staff to the student with the grade reports said. that are usually sent between semes­"The basic time-saver for stu­A new system for registering for ters. In this way, students will al­dents," said Winicur "is that no one courses may eliminate the long lines ready know what their classes are 
will have to give the students com­and computer cards now associated and when they will meet before they puter cards and, therefore, the stu­with registration. arrive for the spring semester. dents will not be waiting in line for 
"A lot of the lines and waiting are At the start ofthe spring semester, their personal packet." unnecessary and we in the each student will fill out an "optical The fall registration process will Registrar's Office are going to scanning form" which will be dis­follow the new pattern, but there 
eliminate them by the changes that I tributed through the Registrar's 
will be one additional change. The am planning," said Dr. Daniel Office. "The forms will not have the photographs taken for next year's Winicur, University Registrar. students name on them," Winicur !.D.'s will be the last ones taken ex­
The future plans for course said. "The forms will not be arranged cept for those of incoming fresh­registration do not include the use alphabetically, so the students will men. "I am going to go to a four of computer cards. Students will no not have to stand in line to get one. year I.D. card," said Winicur. This longer have to stand in line waiting The students will pick up a form, put card will be valid for the student's for their name to be found in a file of down their I. D. number, their name, 
remaining years at school, and every packets. Winicur also plans to their new local address, if any, and year a new expiration date will be change the method ofacquiring stu­check a box determining whether 
punched in the corner of the per­dent identification cards so that stu­they plan to graduate that semester." manent card. dents will no longer need to have If the student is satisfied with his "One of the reasons I was hired their photographs taken each year. classes, then all he will need to do is was to make changes in the system, The new registration process will' fill out the form and he will be en­Winicur said. "I was upset with the go into affect for the 1984 spring rolled. If he wishes to drop or add long lines." registration. There will be classes, then he will follow the nor­

similarities between the old system mal drop/add procedure. AP Photo
"Basically, the new system will be and the new one, but some changes Ifa student does not enroll by fill­easier for the students and there will Homecomingwill be evident. ing out the form, his name will be be less work for the staff at the 
Pre-registration for classes will be; taken off all of the class lists at the Registrar's Office. The success of White House Press Secretary jim Brady ponders a question
conducted in the same way as in the 
end of the enrollment period. "This this system will depend on the stu­during a news conference heldfollowing a parade in his honor in 
· past. The difference is that each stu­will be a real incentive to return to dents being aware ofit." his hometown. His mother and his wife are adjacent to him. 




Buy r 
obser'le Classifieds 
UNCLE'S IRISH PUB 
(EDISON TO GRAPE RD., TURN LEFT, 3 BLOCKS ON THE LEFT ON GRAPE)
Friday, Oct. 21-8 P.M. Morris Civic Auditorium-So. Bend 
This Thursday...Start at 8PM
• 
Tickets '11.50 & '1 0.50 
On Sale-Century Center Box OHice or 
Notre Dame Student Union Ticket OHice 
DRAFT25c 
FOR CHARGE ORDERS-Call 284-9111
.• •~ 
Music by "Spare Parts" 
GAIN A SKILL WHILE YOU GAIN THE MONEY FOR 
COLLEGE. With the Army College Fund, you learn a skill while you ac1=umulate the money lor college. So you don't waste any of your precious lime, or stand still while your college money is growing. To qualify, you must be a high school graduate, make good marks on the Armed Services qualification test, and list and train in one of several se­lected skills which will challenge your mind. You can start immediately growing the money for college. And lor every $1 you save out of your salary (which is more than $570 per month), the govern­ment will add $5. Or more. If you put up $100 a month, alter a 2-year enlist­ment, you'll have $15,200 lor college. Plus a skill that could help you decide which direction to take in college. And the future. Pick up a copy of the Army College Fund booklet at your local Army Recruiting office. SGT Jones 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
I

r------------------------------------···•
PROGRAMS THE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES I 
SponSored by the COUNSELING AND PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES CENTER !INIVERS ITY OF NOTRE DAI'IE 
BUILDING SELF-ESTEEM: A program designed to help students identify thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that affect self-esteem, and to explore and practice new ways of increasing positive feelings. 
BEGINNING DATE: Wednesday 1 October 19 1 1983 TIME: 6:30-8:30 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: ----"-5__ 
RELATIONSHIP ENRICHMENT: A program designed to te.J.ch parlnl.!n; to communicate effectively and enhance their relationship by learning about exploring and practicing new skills to express their feelings in constructive ways. Both partners are required to attend. 
BEGINNING DATE: Tuesday, October 18 1983 TIME: 6: 30~9 :00 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: _ _:4c____ 
DEVELOPING ASSERTIVE BEHAVIOR: A program designed to help students to realize the importance of assertiveness, recognize and increase assertive behaviors, and distinguish assertive responses from other behaviors. Each student will have the 
I
opportunity to practice assertive behaviors through the use of role play techniques. 
BEGINNING DATE: Monday, October 31 1 1983 TIME: 6:00-8:00 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: 5 
STRESS MANAGEMENT: This program will focus on skills to successfully deal with stress. , The purpose of the group will be to help students better understand the nature of stress, how it affects them, and how they can effectively cope with stressful factors in their daily lives. Each student will be assisted in desigining his/her own stress management program to meet his/her own individual needs. 
BEGINNING DATE: Tuesday, November 1, 1983 TIME: 3:00-5:00 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: _ ___,4__ 
MEN'S AWARENESS GROUP: The purpose of this group is to bring men together to examine the> effects of being born male, the sex role expectat iQns men have, the responsibilities of being male, explore new ways of dealing with the demands made on males, to help students understand and clarify their own personal needs as males, and discover new ways 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS of relating with others. MeT'Jbership is restricted to males. 
Mary Ann Roemer 
BEGINNING DATE: Wednesday, October 19, 1983 TIME: 7:00-8:30 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: All semester 
239-5293 
TO ENROLL: Call the Counseling and Psychological Services Center at 239-7336 betuJeen 
9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. 1 Monday -.Friday. To partiaipate in some of the 
I 
groups, you may first need to makf!' nn appointment to see. the leader.. All 
I 
groups have limited enrollment, so aall or c:ome by soon tf you are 'nterested. 
I Services Center i~ located or, the 3rd. floor I 
APPLICATION DEADLINE NOVEMBER 1st I 

~---------------------------------------! 
Wednesday, October 12, 1983-page 6


The Observer 

Monday. He appeared in a number of films
Faces ofSir Ralph 
including "Looking Glass War," left, in 1969 and in "Woman of Straw;" center, in 1964. He also SirRalph Richardson, a dominantfigure in one performed in Harold Pinter's play, "No Man's 
of the greatest periods of the English stage, died Land," right, in 1975. 

Radar failures allowed Korean jetliner to enter Soviet territory 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -An official source 
said yesterday that two Soviet radar 
failures and confusion by defense 
comm"'.tnders allowed a South 
Korean jetliner to fly through Soviet 
airspace unnoticed for more than 
two hours before it was shot down. 
The source, who spoke on condi­
tion that he not he identified, con­
tradicted the official government 
version of events that led a Soviet 
warplane to destroy tht· Korean Air 
Lines Boeing 747 near Sakhalin Is­
land in the Sea ofJaan. 
He said two ofthree radar stations on the Kamchatka peninsula that should have detected the plane Sept. 
I were not working and that the plane's intrusion of Soviet airspace was not confirmed until it reached Sakhalin Island, 400 miles southwest of Kamchatka. 
Five persons shot, killed in Texas 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, Texas Five 
people, including a state trooper, 
were shot and killed in three 
separate incidents yesterday in 
southeastern Texas, and authorities 
tried to determine if the slayings 
were connected. 
A sixth p t erson, a 70-year-old woman, was in critical condition from one of the shooting incidents. 
Highway patrolman Russell Lynn Boyd, 2S, ofHempstead, was gunned down about 6:SO p.m. along High­way 6 near Cedar Creek, Depart­ment of Public Safety spokesman Larry Todd said in Austin. 
The three people in Hempstead, which included two dead and the critically injured woman, were shot a shon time later, Todd said. 
He said investigators also believe the shootings could be connected to the killing of two people earlier yes­terday in College Station, about 40 miles north of Hempstead, and a manhunt was launched for a suspect believed armed with a shotgun and a revolver. 
A lifeFiight helicopter also was sent to take Boyd to Hermann Hospi­tal in Houston, but the trooper was dead when the helicopter arrived, said Todd. 
Air defense commanders reacted 
in confusion after the intruding air­
liner was found in Soviet airspace, 
the source said, and Soviet comman­
ders and pilots involved in downing 
the plane down did not know it was 
a civilian craft carrying 269 people. 
All aboard were killed, including 61 
Americans. 
The source also claimed that air defense commanders ordered the plane shot down because they had proof it was transmitting intel­ligence information to U.S. spy in­
stallations. He did not say what kind ofproof they claimed to have. 
The United States and South Korea have denied the airliner was on a spy mission. 
It was impossible to determine in­dependently whether the new in­formation provided by the Soviet source was correct or if it was an at­tempt, after the fact, to convince a skeptical world the Soviets did not know the plane was an unarmed pas­senger jet. 
Some U.S. intelligence sources 
have said that it was likely the Soviet 
pilots did not identify the plane as a 
civilian airliner. 
There have been unconfirmed reports that top air defense officials in charge at Kamchatka were fired after the incident. Those reports would appear highly likely if, as the Soviet source claimed, there was such a massive failure ofSoviet radar 
equipment or by the men operating it. • The new information, if correct, contra t diets the description of events offered at a Sept. 9 news con­ference by Nikolai V. Ogarkov, the deputy defense minister and chiefof the general staff. He said Soviet radar first began tracking the plane before it reached Kamchatka and that four Soviet fighters scrambled from the penin­sula in a vain attempt to get the jet­liner to identify itself and to land. A radar malfunction could possibly explain a similar incident in April 1978 when a South Korean jet­liner flew for more than two hours over nonhern Soviet airspace before defense forces made it crash land. No explanation was offered then of how the intruder was able to remain in Soviet territory for that long before detection. 

New cancer treatment helps patient survive 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE Doctors said Tuesday they lowered the body tem­perature of a cancer patient 32 degrees, stopping his heartbeat and plunging him into a state near "suspended animation" during sur­gery that saved his life. 
Robert Crowe, 37, of Alexandria, Va., was back at work full-time with­in six months and shows no signs of any tumors, said Dr. Fray Marshall, associate professor of urology at Johns Hopkins Hospital. 
During the operation, Crowe's body temperature was reduced to 66 degrees for 41 minutes, down from the usual 98.6 degrees. 
"He really was not kept alive on the (heart-lung) machine, as there was no perfusion of blood through the body," Marshall said at a news conference explaining the tech­nique. "Mr. Crowe was just cooled down and in a sense was closer to a state ofsuspended animation." 
Crowe had a cantaloupe-sized cancer growth on his kidney, which spread through the vena cava blood vessel into his heart, resemblng a "a garden hose stuffed full of sausage," Marshall said. 
Chemotherapy ami radiation treatment arc ineffective in treating such cancer, and conventional operations to remove such ex­tensive growths have a high mor­tality rate because of extensive bleeding during surgery, Marshall said. 
"We thought extreme measures could be taken to save this man," Marshall said. "To do this required more extraordinary measures than are usual to remove this type ofcan­cer." 
Crowe was "critically ill" when taken into surgery on Oct. 29, 1982, with kidney, liver and circulation dysfunctions and severe body swell­ing, Marshall said. 
His blood was drained into the 
reservoir of a heart-lung pump, 
where it cooled before being 
pumped back into the body. 
When Crowe's body temperature reached 66 degrees, his heart stopped beating and circulation ceased. Crowe's temperature was kept at that level for 41 minutes while Marshall, assisted by director of cardiac surgery Dr. Bruce Reitz, removed the cancerous kidney, a, section of the vena cava and the growth inside the heart. 
AddreM -------­City------State -­Zip Send dle~k or 1110~ ortler lo SCRUBS .P.O. Bo" 595, Bethel Park, PA 15102 
Shirt,  S,  M,  L. $ 9.95  
Panta,  S,  M,  L, $11.95  
Set,  S,  M,  L. $19.95  

Circle 1ize and write In the number of SCRUBS (Plus $1.50 for Postage and Handling) 
URBAN!) 
A REMINDER ! 
To participate -diXing Christmas break ­
you rrust submit yOU' application this week 
OCT. 10-14 
ntormation and Applications: -Center for Social Concerns -Campus Mnstry OffiCes -Yo...-HaD lkban Pblge Representative 
?'
C 
z 
G.> 
m 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

!..Philadelphia Club Bus Sign-ups 
t 
Thursday Oct 13, 7PM 
1st Floor LaFortune $80 due at this time. 
i uul 
r;:,~ ~in£" i 
~ ;~I~ WI~~ BE THE ONLY SIGN UP TIME : 
+ BUS IS LEAVING AFTER USC GAME. 
........................................1 







ViewP-oint 
Wednesday, October 12, 1983 -page 7 
Will the Democrats become a labor party? 
The media have the Mondale Blitz in reverse. Instead of Walter Mondale taking the AFL-CIO in tow by getting its early support, Lane Kirkland, its presiding genius, is on the way to annexing the Democratic Party. 
The prevailing theory, of course, is that Mondale cannibalizes all pressure groups, and 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
the American labor movement is simply there on his menu. It is a seductive theory. 
It is certainly true that Mondale is a demon for buttering up his pressure groups -labor, blacks, women,Jews, farmers, ethnics, gays­before he gobbles them. He gives as much pleasure and causes as little pain to each group as any politician alive. In terms of Jeremy Bentham's hedonic principle, he is a lightning calculator ofpleasures and pains. 
While this may be true ofendorsements by such pressure groups as the National Educa­tion Association, it may prove different with the AFL-CIO endorsement. 
Here there is a power play going on of far­reaching proportions. The pact that Mondale and Kirkland seem to have struck comes out oftheir need for each other. 
Mondale is a traditional flesh-pressing, rafters-ringing politician, of nco-New Deal and Minnesota farm-labor vintage. In any deep conceptual sense he is innocent of real ideas, as distinguished from campaign tactics, and fails therefore to excite any fervent commit­ment. 
The union treasuries, and hundreds of thousands of activists .whom the AFL-CIO commands, will be ofimmense importance if Mondale is to capture the primaries and con­vention, as he is now !*ely to do. 
It is equally true that Kirkland needed a 
party and a future president as labor's allies, 
and his old friend and companion-in-arms 
Walter Mondale was exactly the man to call on. 
Kirkland was George Meany's one-man brain trust for years, wrote his speeches, and guided his politics. He isn't Samuel Gompers and he isn'tJohn L Lewis, but he is shrewd and knowledgable, has a sense of history, and a wicked way with words. 
Exactly when the American trade union movement is walking wounded -when it has lost members in the hard-head, old-line in­dustries and has failed to gain enough new ones in the high-tech sector -it is making a bold move to go political and capture a major party. 
Mondale has much to gain from the Kirkland embrace, including the nomination, and little to lose except his freedom ofaction as president, in the power play works. 
Kirkland, too, stands to gain, ifhe can prove himself a king maker. But the question of democracy within the union decision making process is up for grabs. It is still pretty unclear whether the 90 percent vote for Mondale by the AFL exectives squares with all the straw 
polls showingJohn Glenn as a close runner-up to Mondale among the workers themselves. 
Ifthe project fizzles, and a Mondale with a union tagon him loses the nomination or elec­tion, the purveyors of that tag will look and feel a bit foolish. 
For the Democrats as a party it is a high risk move. The case of the British Labour Party suggests what happens when a political party allows itselfto be taken over by a small group of trade union leaders, and what happens to internal trade union democracy. 
In British terms Mondale and Kirkland 
would probably be either Labour Party 
moderates or members of the new Social 
Democrats. The future danger does not lie in 
them or their kind. It lies in opening a 
politicized labor movement in America (as in 
Britain) to militants who will use it as a 
leverage for their own brand of political 
power. This would wreck the unions and 
would estrange the party from its natural 
liberal and moderate supporters. _ 
(c) 1983, Los Angeles Tunes Syndicate 


Money talks: What is Notre Dame saying? 
Notre Dame's $250 million endowment fund, one ofthe largest in the country, is being invested by six investment firms and is managed by the trustees ofthe University. The portfolio of the University's holdings is not public knowledge, it is classified information that is off-limits to students and faculty alike. 
Michael L. Brennan 
And so it goes 
As members of this community, we directly benefit from these investments. Therefore, we have both a rightand a respon­sibility to question how and where our uni­versity is investing this huge sum ofmoney. 
Meeting with Father Zang, Investment Officer for Notre Dame, I learned tbat we have some ethically questionable (but highly profitable) holdings, such as in American firms investing in South Africa, and in U.S. 
defense industries. It is completely inconsis­tent for Notre Dame, a leading Catholic in­stitution and champion of human rights, to invest in apartheid. 
It seems hypocritical for Father Hesburgh to speak ofnuclear war as "the ultimate moral obscenity" in his efforts for global disarma­ment, while the very university he presides over may well be profiting from the produc­tion ofMX, Pershing, and cruise missiles. 
The issue ofuniversity investmentsin South Africa (the place where black men's wives are referred to as "superfluous appendages") was raised back in 1978, when the trustees set guidelines for such investments. They agreed to support shareholder petitions for withdrawal of a company investing in South Africa if it refused to adopt the Sullivan Prin­ciples. The objective of these principles is to provide improved opportunities and employ­ment practices for nonwhites. 
The University believes in "constructive engagement" rather than divestiture as a means of influence, arguing that if we divested, "West Germany or Japan or some otherforeign country will just take ourplace." By this reasoning it is betterfor us to stay with a corporation and use our power to influence company policy toward the improvement of apartheid conditions. 
It smells like a cop-out to me. We cannot justify profiting from immoral practices by simply appealing to a position ofmoral super­iority. Tell me, Notre Dame, what positive 


P. O.BoxQ 
UW and abortion 
Dear Editor: 
Those concerned about the United 
Way/Planned Parenthood connection can be 
assured that it does not exist in South Bend 
The United Way is a network of autonomous 
agencies in many communities across the 
country. Some of these agencies do fund 
Planned Parenthood, and we must protest this 
affiliation. 
The United Way of St. Joseph's County, 
however, is in no way affiliated with nor funds 
Planned Parenthood. Ninety-nine percent of 
all monies remain in South Bend (11-goes to 
state and national bureaus). It is operated by a 
forty member volunteer board dedicated to 
improving the quality of life in St. Joseph's 
county. They fund charities such as Catholic 
Social Services (which operates Birthline), Logan Center, and several day care centers. Their organizations have been especially helpful to the unemployed and poor in South Bend. ND/SMC Right to Life fully endorses the United Way of St. Joseph's County. Their charities have enhanced the lives of many in our South Bend community. 
]obnMay Vice-President NDISMC Right ro Life 
Editor's note: The appearance ofleUers to the 
editor is subject to the daily constraints of 
the page. Letters should be brief and deal 
with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telepborre number, and signature ofthe author. Initials andpseudo­nyms are unacceptable. Reproductions, car­bon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. 
I·
I I 

Box Q. NOire Dame, IN 46556 . (.!19) 239-5303 
The Ohserr'l!T is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity or Notre Oame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the polioes of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed as aL· L·urately and as objectively a.o; possible. Unsigned _<;_dito.!jia~resent ~he opinon ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries.let(ers. and'The"lns1de Column present the vic:ws oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community. an<lthe free expression of\'aryingopinionson campus. through letters,.is encouraged. 
change or influence have you had on the South African system that can justify our profiting from apartheid? 
In another area, how does this university justify its holdings in defense industries, par­ticularly those involved in the production of nuclear weapons? 
Additionally, the University could invest in companies like Nestle and Campbells, despite a campus-wide boycott of these companies' products. Without therelease ofthe informa­tion, we cannot be sure. 
Investing morally and ethically is not a black and white issue. It raises a host of dif­ficult questions, lOr example, what is a moral investment? By avoiding these questions, we give tacit approval to a number ofexploitive, unjust, immoral and unethical practices by American corporations. 
The Investment Officer told me that no one is evaluating our holdings regularly on moral and ethical issues because "we don't have time for that" and "that is a luxury we cannot afford." Moral backbone and ethical courage have never been easy or necessarily cheap. 
It does not require a great deal ofcynicism to see that this university is primarily in­terested in profit maximization. Just witness 
/ 
0 
' ' 
the administration's policies, which are focused more on appeasing contributing alumni than on improving student life. 
The first step that must be taken on this issue is the release ofthe information -even though it changesdaily, and may be expensive and difficult to do. No excuses, please. 
Ifthis is truly the "Notre Dame Family," let us have a say on family matters, for we have grown weary of the "Father Knows Best" at­titude of the administration. If Notre Dame seeks to imbue us with Christain ethics, we must be given moral responsibilities, and we 
must be able to see how (or if) our own uni­
versity practices what it preaches. 
Treat us as adults who care, release the in­formation and let's talk about it. You may be pleasantly surprised. Besides, what is there to lose? Money? 
Next Thursday, members of the Student Senate will meet with the trustees of the Uni­versity. If you feel that this issue of ethical investing is important, or that we at least have a right to know how Notre Dame invests, I urge you to attend Monday's Student Senate meeting(Room 124 Hayes-Healyat6:00)and voice your opinion. 
.... 
0 
/ 


llfl 
I 
Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoc Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas News Editor ................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager ............... Chris Owen News Editor . ................. ~ark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzanuc= i..a Croix Soint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto_ Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltou System Manager •.............. Kevin Williams Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower 
Sports Editor ........ : ...................•.... Michael Sullivan Founded November 3, 1966 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
==========JO;=;("Jt:=::J~.J~bJ~t!IIC:J~VI::Jb======== Editor-in-Chief .. .............. David Dziedzic 

Showcase 
Miss Manners 
Entulating those entinent Victorians 
by Judith Martin 
F
or many decades, it has fallen to Miss Manners to defend the 
Victorians from the sort ofbad reputation that people naturally 
acquire when they are believed to have kept to a high moral stan· 
dard. 
She tried to protect them from the scorn modern people feel for those who lived out their lives before the invention ofsex. (Sex was invented in 1960 by two students at the University ofCalifornia at Berkeley. One ofthem, an undergraduate, received a B-plus in Life Experience for this achievement; the other, a graduate student, had his degree held up while members ofthe faculty attempted tot reproduce the experiment.) 
And she has even tried to absolve Victorians ofthe most heinous crime ofall -that ofcalling legs, especially piano legs, "limbs." As dear Booth Tarkington, a practicing Victorian himself, pointed out, "limbs" was actually the collective term used for arms and legs. "But it is a curious thing that I hear you repeatedly chargingold-fashioned people with this crime," ho.wrote. "Whenever we ask you to tell us precisely what are the old hypocrisies that you have so usefully swept away, you always fall back upon "limb." It seems to make you very bitter with us to believe we said "limb" for "leg,"... (but)you are not indignant with us when we sometimes say "seat" for "chair" or "building" for "wharehouse," perhaps, or "pets' for "dogs" and "cats," or "bird" for "parrot."' 
At any rate, Miss Manners, who is directly descended (on both sides of her family) from people who actually lived in the Victorian era, is quite used to this onslaught. What surprises her now is the need to defend these same Victorians from a rapidly increasing body ofadmirers. 
It seems that everywhere Miss Manners turns now, someone is 
going in for impersonating Victorians in pageantry and fairs and balls 
and opera and films and television dramatizations. That should be 
gratifying. But It is nearly always done in such a way as to appear, to 
the practiced eye (guess whose that is) as vulgar and ridiculous. 
Miss Manners does not want to discourage people from emulating 
the Victorians, for dramatic or other purposes. Please, please, 
though, may she ask a few small favors? 
Don't eat or drink with gloves on. It turns Miss Manners' tummy. You are quite correct that no Victorian lady or gentleman would step out without gloves, to remove the hand part and tuck it into the wrist. 
You need to be able to operate a hat, too. But the gentlemen, down to the very humblest male, would know enough to raise his hat when meeting a lady outside and to remov~ his hat indoors whenever ladies were present. Miss Manners has seen several films, in which gentk:men, when trying to ingratiate themselves with ladies, would stand before them hatted. Such a gesture would have been perceived by a lady as a deliberate affront. 
No one, no matter how simple his station in life (that was when people had stations, before they were all recycled into boutique malls), would have gone outdoors in daylight bareheaded. But it is equally incorrect, as Miss Manners has seen in m t ore than one operatic production, to have a lady either hatted or bareheaded at a ball. In the evening, a lady "dressed" her hair with feathers, jewels or other ornaments. Nor did ladies wear all those black dresses to be chic. Black was the color of mourning, and while not a few ladies went in for chic mourning, It was not a color chosen at random. 
The offenses only begin with clothing. Everyone who now writes a drama set In Victorian times feels compelled to get the characters on a fist name basis as soon as possible. Why, there were some hus­bands and wives who never got that intimate in those days. 
And that probably only confirms the worst impressions you had about people on whom we moderns are such a limb up. 
DearMiss Manners-Iam a 33-year-old polite man who enjoys a 
private breakfast with the day's newspapers before I begin a hard 
day's work. I am accustomed to having my morning meal at a 
cafeteria in the building where I work. 
Recently, an older gentleman, new in my office, has begun joining 
me in the mornings. I'm sure he thinks his company is welcome. He 
is a nice man and I don't wish to offend him. But I must have my 
solitary brt·akfast. 
I have tried a polite nod and return to my paper when he sits 
down, but he simply does not get the message. He continues his at· 
tempts at conversation. Please help. 
Gentle Reader -Married couples have wisely established the polite fiction ofmorning coffee as a prerequisite for civility. The for­mula, whi<:h exactly suits your needs, is to say, "I'm afraid you'll have to forgive me -I'm just not fit to talk to anyone in the morning until after I've had my coffee." This should be followed by the business world's polite fiction, "But do let's have lunch some time." And after all that fiction, you are entitled to turn your attention to the morning news. 
}utlith Martin's "Miss Manners Guide to Bxcruciating~y Correct Behavior"(Atheneum) is now availablefor etiquette emergency consultation. 
Feeling incorrect? Address youretiquette questions (in blue­hlack ir1k on u•htte u•ritir~g paper) to Miss Mtmr~ers, ir1 care ofthis neu•spaper. 
UNITED Feature Syndicate 
Wednesday, October 12, 1983-page 8 


I
t is a job that only three women in the past 13 7 years have ever held. However, the highly visible position ofdrum major for the University of Notre Dame Marching Band has been filled solely by a woman since the 1981-82 school year. This year, Julia Schwebel leads the band. 
Schwebel, a mathematics and ALPA major from Washington, IL, is only the third woman to serve as drum major ofthe band. She is filling the shoes ofher two female predecessors, Linda Batista ( '80-'81) and Toni Faini ('81-'82, '82-'83). As drum major, Schwebel is respon­sible for conducting the NO Band. A duty that requires skills in marching, music and leadership, Schwebel has 
spent much much ofher life developing those traits. She now devotes at least seven and a half hours a week rehearsing with the band. (To case her demanding schedule, Schwebel took summer classes to reduce her work load this 
year.) 
This drum major, whose twin sis· ter, Theresa is also in the band, began piano lessons in the third grade, and flute lessons in the fifth. As a flutist she was a member ofher high school band. After making the Notre Dame Band her freshman 
year, Scwebcl traded in her flute for 
the glockenspiels. 
As a freshman, Schwebel did not immediately aspire to such heights within the band. "At first I was thrilled to make the band, but after a while I started thinking about trying out for drum major," Schwebel said. 
Open auditions for drum major were held in April last year. Five finalists, a group narrowed from a field ofapproximately 19, were evaluated for their both their leader­ship and marching ability on the field and their musical talents. The opinions ofother band members were also taken into account before Schwebel was named drum major. jack Cosgrove is her understudy. 
Mr. Robert F. O'Brien, band dircc· 
tor, praised Scwebcl but also 
stressed that the NO Band is unique 
because ofthe "sharing of respon­
sibility." 
"There are no token members, 
everyone is involved," O'Brien said. 
Scwebel will lead the Irish band at all home football games this season, the Penn State game, and any pos· sible bowl games in addition to other special apearances. 
Maryjacoby is a .freshman from LittleRock, Arkansas. 
The rites of autumn 
75-cent beer drinking adults. Those born in '63 or later were ac· comodatcd outside Regina hall in the Root Beer Garden. Disc jockies set the scene in both gardens with rock and disco music. Later one of them admitted he left his 4S of the "She's Too Fat For Me" polka at home. Bavarian pretzels were 
served, the perfect complement for a frosty Hires. 
Ahayride and bonfire Friday night topped off the week's activities. Both were held in a field across from McCandless Hall. 
The 1983 Oktoherfest is now a 
memory like all of the ot novcmberfcst is not on the calen­dar, presently, hut this month's fes· tivities were so successful, that perhaps the idea should be con­sidered. And then a December· fest ...and ajanuaryfest ... and then maybe ... 
Keny Kearney is a junior at Saint Mary's. Ar1 English major, she is from Oakt•i/le Otztario, Canada. 
N
ow that Indian Summer has given rise to cooler tem­peratures we realize that autumn is really upon us. We find our memories ofpoolsides and Cop· pcrtone shifting to images of text books, due dates, and closed toe shoes. Last week Saint Mary's celebrated this season with five days ofOktoberfest events continuing the tradition that has been a part of campus life since the early I 970s. 
Adorm decorating competition opened the week's activities. LeMans hall won the competition with its colorful display ofdraping streamers which surrounded an oversized Lowenbrau hanging. Resi­dents ofother halls tried to capture the spirit ofOktobcrfest by germanizing religious statues with construction paper liedcrhoscn and cut out beer steins. 
Tuesday was to be marked by a 
by Kerry Kearney 
features staff writer 
day ofpicnics and outdoor games had the unpredictable South Bend Weather granted another day of crisp fall air and sunshine. Though 
' the weather did not cooperate, Saga food service did by providing brats andsauerkraut indoors. Notre Dame junior, Michael Rhinehart supplied the entertainment with his guitar. The Haggar Center hosted the movie "The Sound ofMusic" as SMC was graced once again by Julie Andrews and her Von Trapp brood. The film was played to standing room only audiences for all showings that Wednesday. The Beer Gardens ofOktobcrfcst, an annual event which fills Munich beerballs with frolicking, folk sin­ging celebrants was not ignored on this slcte ofdwAfllantic. Those in the over .21 crowd which filled a tent outside the gym found themselves elbow to elbow with many ofother 
I 
w·ednesday, October 12, 1983-page 9 
Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's tennis team beat Chicago The Domer SixMile Runtook place yesterday on 
Circle 7-2 yesterday. At No. l singles, Deb Lauerie struggled before Burke Memorial golf course. The winners in each division received 
defeating Kim Kerbis 6-1, 4-6, and 6-2. At No.2 singles, Caroline Zern trophies and all the finishers received t-shirts. Don Passenger, with a easily handled Kali Mikitas 6-1, 6-1. Kristin Beck had a little trouble time of 32:22, was the overall men's finisher, and the frrst place win­with Dianne Leninger before coming out victorious 6-0,7-6. At No.4 ner in the men's graduate division. From the faculty/staff division, singles. Mary Ann Heckman downed Wendy Garnecki 6-1,6-0. After Micahel Krager carne in first. Jeff Westhoven won the men's under­
losing her first match 3-6, Heather Temoffew came back to win the graduate division. On the women's side of things, Madeline Murphy next two 6-2, 6-3 against Maria Alva. Lastly, at No. 6 singles Allison was the overall winner and the first place finisher in the women's Pellar beat Karen Kryznenski 6-0, 6-1. In doubles, Lauerie and Beck graduate division. Dava Newman finished first in the undergraduate fell to Kerbis and Mikitus 10-6. At No. 2 doubles, St. Mary's-picked up division while Judy Murtough took the crown in the woinen's a victory when Heckman and Poliar beat Leninger and Garnecki 10-facultyIstaff division. -The Obseroer 
7. But the second Chicago point came when Alva and Kryznecki downed Karie Casey and Betsy Boyle 10-7. St. Mary's next competi­tion will be at the State Tournament in Anderson. -The Obseroer The fuut1h annual n.nming of the Human 
Race is set for 10 a.m. on Saturday, October 15. The 10-Kilometer footrace and fun run are t sponsored by the Broadway Christian Parish United Methodist Church. t and the South Bend YMCA. The race is a 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team split a fund-raising event for both organizations. Registration forms can be 
dual meet last night to make its record 7-6. In the first game, the picked up at the Broadway Christian Parish, the YMCA, the Athlete's Iklles defeated Goshen College 8-I 5, 15-13, and 18-1 5. But then Foot in University Park Mall, and the Athletic Annex stores in they lost to St. Francis 3-1 5, 6-1 S. -The Observer Scotsdale Mall and University Commomns. -The Observer 
Richardson waived 
EAST RliTHERFORD, N.J. (AP)­New Jersey Nets guard Michael Ray Richardson, who last week admitted he had succumbed again to a cocaine dependency, was waived yesterday by the National Basketball Association team. 
Richardson, a three-time All Star, was released because he did not obey an NBA order to report to a New York treatment program Mon-t day or Tuesday, said Nets Executive Vice President Lewis Schaffel. "He said he is not going to show up. He ate the last straw." said Schaffel. 
Under an NBA drug policy adopted Sept. 28, athletes may be subject to permanent dismissal from the league for involvement with 
drugs. 
The Observer LaFortune offtcc accepts classified advenising from 9 a.m. lo 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open 
from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
The deadline for next day classified serv1ce is 3 p.m. 
All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail Charge is ten ents per seven characters, per day. 
Classifieds 
I NEED A RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR 
NEED 4 OF THE BEST Gl\'s for USC (40 HELP! I need 3.4.or 5 PITT GA's. Call Get your URBAN PLUNGE applicationsOCT. BREAK. WILL LEAVE ANY-TIME yd line or better) Money no obtect! Steve Kevin at 8877 in by Friday. October 14th
NOTICES FOR RENT 
KIM 284-5506 1178 
Parents coming from Texas -need 4 Pitt NEED RIDERS TO 
~EED 4 STUDENT Tic's for USC. Smitty GA's-Mark 8694 yping ALL KINDS 277-8534 after 5:30 Female roommate wanted. Large house TOLEDO.CLEVELAND.ERIE OR t178 FOR AN EXPERIENCE THAT MAY apt. 2BDR Close to campus. 1/2 rent UPSTATE NEW YORK VIA 80/90 TOL­
CRUNCH THE CAP'N CRUNCH THE .XPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO $125. Call232-3245 or 272-4263. LROAD. LEAVING SATURDAY 22ND Help! I need one AIR FORCE GA. call CAP'N CRUNCH THE CAP'N CRUNCH YPING REASONABLE RATES. CALL AFTER THE GAME. KATHLEEN 284· 
Paul 8737/8736 THE CAP'N CRUNCH THE CAP'N 287-5162. NICE FURNISHED HOUSE 277-3604 5168 CRUNCH THE CAP'N CRUNCH THE ............................................................ I NEED 2 USC GAs. CALL JACK 277-CAP'N CRUNCH THE CAP'N BOYCOTT CHANGE THE WAY YOU THINK 
Wilson Driveaway Cars available for stu­
~ents to dnve anywhere in the country. 
Call. 288-7060. 
.... 
The URBAN PLUNGE deadline IS Friday. 
Get applicat1ons from dorm reps. at the 
Campus Ministry. or at the Center tor So­
cial Concerns. 
An experience that wltl open your eyes 
and open your mind 
CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKSCHEESESTEAKS 
ILOST/FOUN.D I 
FOUND· STOPWATCH AT BURKE MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE. CALL ERIC AT 8192 TO IDENTIFY. 
OST one black Tl-30 calculator in 3rd toor physics lab call 8719 if found 
0 WHOEVER PICKED UP AN CALC & 1.1ATERIALS BOOK AT THE S. DINING ~ALL WED. NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN 
HEM. CALL 288-5420. 
OST. CLASSIC BLACK CROSS PEN. SENTIMENTAL VALUE PLEASE CALL BEN AT 1420. 
FOUND: one black and white shoulder bag with a red-colored bird on it Material is of the Mexican-rug type. Call Mike 234­7080. 
LOST: ONE BLUE VELCRO WALLET. Please return to or call Mike. 234-7080 
1.......... ................................. 
To the Farley girl who borrowed my I grey FARRELL t-ahlrt: pleaM return It 
to 409 KEENAN. 
To the Lewis girt who borrowed • allot glau lor her acavanger hunt: PleaM return It to 410 KEENAN. 
LOST: A dark grey three piece ault with white ahlrt and blue knit tie. H anyone knows anything about ~ . please contact JOHN at 3580. It's very important--will of· fer reward. 
Lost: gold wedding band w/ inscription on inSide. Call Steve 8885. 
LOST ONE GREEN. IRISH WOOL. DONEGAL HAT. CALL 283-8929 IF FOUND. REWARD IF FOUND. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. ENDA 
LOST:NAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET. HAS SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE AND REWARD IS YOURS. CALL 8810. 
LOST.NAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET. THIS JACKET HAS A GREAT AMOUNT OF SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE AND SO REWARD WILL BE GIVEN. PLEASE CALL 8810 AND ASK FOR JOHN. 
LOST: Pa!f of contacts in a green-and· whrte case. somewhere off campus and very possibly on St. Louis Avenue. Call Don at 8282 if you see them ·cause he sure can't 
LOST: Blue spnng NO jacket. left hanging on the wire fence between Badin and the South Din1ng Hall. If you find it. please return ~ to Nick at 436 Howard or call 8207. I'll have you know I'm lreez1ng to death. 
FOUND IN ROCKNE POOL -18K GOLD MEDAL W/INITIALS G.F.P. Call 239­6294N. Ayo. 
Female roommate wanted to share living expenses in furnished house 15 minutes from campus. $150.00 per month. Non­smoker please. 239-5930 
291·9644 
..__I_W_1\_N_TE_o___,\ 
New/semiused 8 track tapes. any style music. Mark 283-7140 evenings. 
NEED A RIDE TO ROCH./UPSTATE NY FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. TERRY X8725. 
RIDERS to Cbicago-Rockford-Madison­LaCrosse: leaving Friday i4 Oct. Call Mike 234-1530 after 11 :45pm (leave your name if I'm not home). 
NEED2T04 PmGA'SWILLPAY BIG BUCKS!! CALL MARK 1177 
Thanksgiving In Maine: II you're plan­ning a trip to Boston or north for Thanksgiving and have a spare seat in your car. give me a call at 283-8866 or 239·7471. please (Keith). 
SIGN-UPS SIGN-UPS SIGN-UPS WASH DC. MD. VA --WED OCT 12 7-8 PM LAFORTUNE LOBBY 
Need nde to CINCINNATI lor Break. Can leave FRI.1 0/21. Terry 6737 
' . ... . .' ' . . . . . ' ' . . ' . . NEED RIDE to North N J. Can leave as early as Wed 10/19. return Sun 10/30. Will share expenses. Call Liz NO. 1267 
Ride needed to Chicago or N. W. suburb area on 10/14. Call Chris 3417. 
HELPI NEED RIDE TO IU­BLOOMINGTON OCT.22 OR 23 $CALL HOLLY 2844113$ 
NEED RIDE TO ATLANTA AFTER USC GAME. I will share the usual. Call Tim at N0.3493 
RIDERS NEEDED TO BUFFALO N.Y. FOR BREAK. WILL LEAVE SUN AFTER USC CALL BILL 1188 
RIDERS WANTED one way to Buffalo. Rochester. or Albany. Must be able to leave on afternoon of Thur. Oct 20. Also looking for riders from Harrisburg. PA area on Oct 31. -4520 or 272-7640 
Need ride to West Palm/Ft. Laud. area for Oct. break. Can leave on Oct. 20 or 21. Call Jan at287-4067. 
2 need nde to and/or from PHILL Y lor break. Can leave 10121. call Celeste 7972 
NEED 2 RIDES TO I.U. BLOOMINGTON OCT 14-16 CALL MAURA AT 5242 (SMC) 
Need RIDE to CLEVELAND lor break.Can leave before game.Call Jack 
15Q4 
Boaton Club October Bus Sign-ups Thursday. Oct. 13 in LaFortune at 7:30 
p.m. $115.00 round trip. $50.00 non· refundable deposit due at sign-ups. 
Boaton Club October Break Bus leav1ng NO Oct. 22 at 7 p.m. and leaving Boston Oct. 29 at 8 p.m. Refreshments as usual. 
AUGH! NEED RIDE TO INDY THIS WKND LEAVE ANYTIME PAT 1754 
AKRON/KENT/JOHN CARROLL . RIDERS NEEDED OCT14-16 283-3254 DESPERATELY NEED 2 RIDES TO PITTSBURGH FOR OCT. BREAK. CAN LEAVE THURS OR FRI CALL 4407 
NEED RIDE to OHARE/CHGO area Thurs eve. before break. Marya 1317. 
..__I_T_ic_KE_Ts~f 
Desperately need Penn State game lick· ets. Call Brian at 8795. 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 
USC-NO tix wanted. Paying most. (312) 246-4650. 
Need Non-student tickets to NO vs USC. Call collect. (312) 565-5959 x2013 or x2233. 
NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR GOOD OL' DAD"! Please call DAVE at 8919 
Need NAVY stud.&GA·s x1695 
NEED 4 NAVY GAs Call Pete 3114 
I NEED 10G.A.'STOTHE U.S.C. GAME. WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT FOR THESE TICKETS AND THEY NEED NOT BE TO­GETHER. PLEASE CALL 1779 And ASK FOR DAN. 
Need two G.A.'s lor the Pitt. game. Call Kelly 284-4074. 
NEED TWO GA's FOR USC. CALL KATHYAT2966. 
Please help a student who's continuing education is riding on her ablily to obtain 2 or more NAVY GAs soon. PLease call Mary Ellen at 2981. A mind is a terrible thing to waste. 
Need 2 USC GA'S Call BRIAN 6981 
HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WANT TO SWAP FOR PENN ST. CALL PAUL 1703. 
HELP 
A very RICH friend needs PITT GA'& He is wll#ng to pay serious do/IBIS lor the tickets. Please help by caJHng David at 
2n-1326. 
You'll be glee! you did 
HELP! NEED USC TIX FOR RICH RELATIVES. CALL LON AT 8763 
USC TIX NEEDED II Student or GA · $$ CALL KEVIN x 8214 NOW I 
NEED 8 G.A.'S FOR PITT GAME. MUST BE IN PAIRS. CALL KEVIN AT 8636. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$TWO GA'S NEEDED FOR USC GAME$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$Call Sean x8606$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ eendad 
NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS: CALL JOHNAT1881 
NEED 2 USC STUD OR GA's. Call Dan 1022. 
NEED NAVY TIX CALL ERIN 2773 
NEED 2 USC STUDENT OR G.A. 'SWILL TRADE TWO PITT G.A'S CALL ROBERT AT288-5814 
NEED USC TIX. CALL 1695. 
HELPII need 4 Navy GA's. Call Dave at 
1801. 
3315. 
HELP!! I need 2-4 USC or PITT GA tixl!! Please call-Julie at4434! 
HELP! NEED 6 PITT.TIX. MUST BE IN GAPS. OF 2 OR MORE. STEVE. 8885 
HELP! NEED GA'S FOR NAVY GAME! PLEASE CALL ANNIE 277-2492. THANKS! 
HELP! I need 2-4 Pitt G.A.s. Will pay big bucks. Call Mark al1177. 
TWO FOR ONE -I'll trade my two PITT GA's for one USC GA. Or I'll pay$$. Call Dave at 239-5278 days. 
NEED 2 NAVY TIX Need not be together CALL JACKIE 8821 
DON'T HOLD YOUR EXTRA NAVY GA !!! GET RID OF IT TODAY!! CALL 8762 lor details. 
NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR NAVY CALL CHRIS AT1201 
NEED 2-4 NAVY GA'S. CALL MIKE 1620. 
HELP! Homesick student won't see parents 'til Christmas unless she can get NAVY G.A.'s ASAP. Call Kathleen x8016 $$$ 
Fun loving. Foxy. Freshman Fruit Loop Fanatic desperately needs 2 Navy G.A. ·s. Call Diana at 284-4127. 
Need 4 NAVY GAs Doug 277 4273 
DESPERATELY NEED USC GAS OR ANY HOME GAME. PETE 272-6306 
NEED PENN STATE TIXS. CALL MIKE 1584 
WE NEED MANY TIX FOR BOTH USC AND NAVY. CALL WOZZ 1773. HI PAT­TY. 
I AM WILLING TO TRADE 2 AIR FORCE STUD. TIX AND/OR CASH FOR ONE PIT STUD. TIX OR GA. MY GIRLFRIEND IS ALSO NEGOTIABLE. CALL BARNEY 1222. 
NEEDED 2 GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE PITT GAME! CALL ALISA 8821 
NEED 4 NAVY GA"S. CALL MIKE NO. 8953. 
DEL DESPERATELY NEED 2 USC GA'S WILL PAY$$$ CALL JACK 277-5408 
............................................,............ 
NEED PITT TIX. STUDENT OR GA"S. CALL DOUG AT 232-1955 
A RICH EXECUTIVE HAS ASKED ME TO GET HIM 4-6 USC GAs. HELP CALL PAT 1238 
NEED ALOT OF NAVY GA'S. PAY$. CALL PAT 277-7595 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S. BIG DOLLARS. 
DO YOU HAVE ANY PITT GA'S?? I ON­LY NEED 2!! CALL TERRI x6804 
NEED 2 NAVY TIX CALL MAURA 4117 
AVAIABLE: TWO ALUMNI USC TICK­ETS.CALL 283-1523.ASK FOR BILL. 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR NAVY PLEASE CALL PA TTl 284-4355 
PITT TIX -DESPERATELY NEED 3 STUD. & 2 OR MORE GA'S $$$ CALL SUSANNE (SMC)5482 OR (SMC)5047 
NEED 2 NAVY GA's. Call Kathy al2966. 
QUAKER OATSI!! 
ATTENTIONIIIIWSND REMOTES ARE 
NOW AVAILABLE FOR ALL OCCA­
SIONS! FOR THE LOWEST PRICE 
AVAIALABLE YOU CAN HAVE A 
PROFESSIONAL OJ, ENGINEER AND 
ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEII 
THE FOLLOWING DATES ARE NOW 
AVAILABLE: OCTOBER 8,14,15,21­
NOVEMBER 4,12,17,18 AND DECEM­
BER 2,3,9, 16, 17. TO RESERVE YOUR 
DATE CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT 
283-1153 AFTER 11 P.M. OR AT 239­
7425 TUESDAY FROM 3PM TO &PM, 
AND JIM GALLAGHER AT 239-7425. 
THAT'S WSND REMOTE$-THE BEST 
EQUIPMENT ,THE BEST MUSIC, AT 
THE BEST PRICE Ill 
NEED 3 USC TIX CALL KATY AT SM~ 4334 
RIDE NEEDED TO COLUMBUS, OHIO, OCT. 14. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL HOWIE AT x1765. 
I need PITT GA's. Call David at 277­1326. 
URBAN PLUNGE .•. URBAN PLUNGE 
Urban Plunge applications are due Oct. 
14. Get the applications from your dorm representatives, at the Center lor Social Concerns, or at Campus Ministry. 
For an experience that will laat a lifetime •.. 
Need 2 or 4 tickets to Pitt game. G.A. that is. Please call1311 and sell me your tick­ets. 
WASH DC. MD. VA BUS SIGN-UPS WED. OCT 12 7-8 PM LAFORTUNE LOBBY PRICE-$65. BRING MONEY TO SIGN-UPS. LV 10/22 AT 7 PM 
ROAD TRIP: NO/Army Game-14,15.16 Oct. $60 package incl. tickets. transpo. accomodations. party. Call David 272­6815. Angie 7515. or Tom 6891 
URBANPL 
u 
If 
G 
E 
FOR SALE 
......................................................... 
AVAILABLE: 2 USC lix. Call (215) 238­9052 after 5 pm. 
72 VW BUG.rblt eng. B/0. Leslie x271 o 
butcherblock looseball table for sale like new call255 0116 
CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS 
PERSONALS 
IF YOU HAVE OR HAVE NOT REGIS­TERED FOR THE DRAFT, HAVE QUES­TIONS ABOUT CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION, DEFERMENTS, EXEMP­TIONS, THE CHURCH'S POSITION ON BEARING ARIIIS ... CONTACT MAR­GARET GARVEY, CAMPUS MINISTRY, BADIN HALL (239-5242) FOR DRAFT AND MILITARY COUNSELLING. 
M-~-;k·s~;.;;t;;·;;·;·;;;~~:g~di"..........~·········· 
... ············ ..................•............. REAL MEN DON'T EAT CAP'N CRUNCH 
To the Farley girl who borrowed my grey FARRELL t-ahlrt: please return It to 409 KEENAN. 
To the Lewis girl who borrowed a shot glaas her scavenger hunt: Please return It to 410 KEENAN. 
Let us be mellow, even in such a state as Indiana ... 
.............. 
TO ALL CONNECTICUT CLUB MEM­BERS : Sign ups for October Break Bus will be Wednesday. Oct. 12 at 7pm in La Fortune. 1 stlloor. Must have 40 people or bus will not run. First come. First served. Any questions call Tim 1178. 
MEGAN. Choc. Choc. Chip ···'Cookies. M&M"s. White Powdered Sugar Donut Gems...Thanks for more laughs in a semester than in a whole year... Happy 21st kiddo!! Love. Anne. Mary & Sandi 
P.S. You didn't die! 
YES YES YES YES 
ELLIOT 
IS THERE LIFE AFTER PARASIT? 
............... 
Boaton Club bus departing after USC. 
Tailgater will continue on the bus. $115 
round trip. sign-up Thureday, Oct. 13 In 
LaFortune at 7:30 p.m. $50 non­
refundable deposit due at sign-ups. 
CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM!I! HOWARD HALL'S WEDNESDAY NIGHT CHEESESTEAKS!!! FREE DELIVERY FREE DELIVERY CALL 8200 between 9:00-11 :30 to order ... 
KNOCK KNOCK I WHO'S THERE? 
CHEESE! CHEESE who? CHEESES­
TEAK!IIIII 
........................................................... 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TONY!!!! LUV YA. 
SIS 
GLOOP-GLOOP: WE HEARD YOlJI LOST "IT" SAT. NITE AT THE SYR! HOPE IT DIDN'T HURT TOO BADLVI THE GANG 
MOVIEMOVIE; The Last Epidemic (the medical consequences of nuclear war) TONIGHT and tomorrow! LaFortune Little Theatre. 6:00 FREE. Remember; Nuclear war may be prevented w~hout your help -bull wouldn't bel your life on ill 
BON ANNIVERSAIRE KAREN! FAITES LA FETE APRES TON EXAMEN! LOVE. A LISA 
To TOMMY and JOHN-the cutest couple on the Booze Cruize: Did you have fun af­ter parietals? 
TONIGHT MIKE ROBERTS 20th BIRTHDAY PARTY 358CAVANAUGH 
SCOTT SULENTICH: I'm really sorry about what hppened on Oi:t. 1 and hope that you will forgive me. Call me if you want to talk. Love. Your Favor~e Flirt. 
0-C STUDENTS PICK UP YOUR 0-C NEWSLETTER IN THE LaFORTUNE THAT'S WHERE THEY WILL BE FOR THE REST OF THE YEAR TO PICK UP 
HAPPY 18th KLEID'S LOVE ALWAYS. RASH AND KELLY 
THE BLUES BROTHERS WED. OCT. 12 2 P.M. HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER 7 & 
9:30 CARROLL HALL ONLY $1 SPONSORED BY SMC JUNIOR CLASS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY PATTIIIIII BIG NO . 
21. NOW YOUR LEGAL.. ..... HOPE IT'S A GREAT DAY. BUD 
The Observer Wednesday, October 12, 1983-page 10 
Studley takes position 
Ticket Distribution Oilers name an interim coach 
Today 
By MICHAEL A. LUTZ Oiler General Manager Ladd Her­The Oilers have not won a game 
Sophomores, graduate students, and 
Associated Press zeg said Studley and offensive coor­since Sept. 19, 1982 when they 
law students 
dinator Kay Dalton were considered defeated Seattle 2 3-21. Chuck Studley, who became for the job. Studley came to .the Oilers in 
Tomorrow
defensive: coordinator of the: Hous­"It was an extremely difficult january after serving as defensive ton Oilers in January, stepped up a decision for me and one that I coordinator of the San Francisco 
Freshmen and any students who missed their 
note h to interim head coach yester­wrestled with most of last night," 49ers for three years, including a 
appropriate day 
day replacing Ed Biles, who resigned Herzeg said. "I felt both Chuck and march to the 1981 Super Bowl. Monday In the midst of a 13-game Kay Dalton had superb qualificia­Studley started his coaching losing streak. tions and both were highly qualified career in 1955 as an assistant at his 
All tickets are being distributed at Gate 3 of the ACC 
"I didn't look up the word to be successful head coaches in the alma mater, the University ofIllinois. 
from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
'interim' but I think it means tem­NFL." Studley was head coach at the Uni­porary," Studley said in his first The Oilers will try to break their versity ofMassachusetts for one year meeting with the media. "If we con­losing string Sunday against the Min­and for eight seasons at the Univer­tinue: to play inconsistently, it's nesota Vikings. sity ofCincinnati. adios (goodbye) at the end of the In naming Studley, Oiler manage­He joined the: pro ranks in 1969 
• • . Tourney
st·ason." ment followed the same path as with the Cincinnati Bengals where Studley, gc.·tting his first pro head when they named Biles to replace he remained for I 0 years before since: the women's poll came: out.
continuedfrom page 12
coaching experience, enters the job Bum Phillips, who was fired in moving to the 49ers. 
Coached by Chris Weller, the Terps
fully aware of the task that lies ahead january 1981. Biles had been who, last year as a freshman, earned finished 26-5 last year, including a in breaking the losing streak and the: defensive coordinator under Phil­first-team all-America honors. Miller win over Notre: Dame. 
team's 0-6 record this season. lips. 
Tomorrow: 
was the most highly-recruited high Mary Di's Irish fill out the: tourna­"Right now I'm wearing two hats," Biles' resignation came Monday school player ever and has lived up ment. Returning nearly the entire Studley said. ''I'm still the defensive following a 26-14 loss to the: Denver 
to all expectations. squad from last year's 20-7 team,coordinator and I know what that in­Broncos on Sunday. Biles was booed The other teams in the tourna­Notre Dame finally hopes to crack
Sullivan's
volves plus I have the duties of the lustily during the game when his ment are not pushovers, however. the Top Twenty. Sophomore for­
heard coach and at this point I'm not picture was flashed on a huge screen 
Tennessee, which finished with a ward Teena Keys, and juniors Mary
football column 
sure what that involves." in the Astrodome. 
25-8 record, competed in the NCAA Beth Schueth, Laura Daugherty, and Mideast Regional held at Notre Ruth Kaiser, are expected to lead the 
Dame last spring, losing to Georgia  team this year. Awin over one of the  
in the finals. The Lady Vols are led by  teams in the tournament would go a  
Tanya Haave,  a  6-2  forward  who  long  way  in  getting  the  Irish  
averaged  18.6 points  a  game  last  program some national recognition.  
year, and are coached by Pat Summit  Times for the games will be an­ 
who will serve as coach ofthe U.S. t  nounced in the near future. Games  
woen's basketball team in the 1984  will be: played early Friday and later  
Olympics.  on Saturday in order to work around  
Marylanctconsistcntly has been in  the men'steat m'stwo optninap.rnq  
.•-:  4.  • ahc TCJD T¢ft in tbc country· CYCT  tt.&weckcnd.  

I I I 
1-·, .. 
. ·.._ 
GRAND OPENING 
THURSDAY, OCT 13 9:00AM of South Bend's Newest 
DISCOUNTSTORE 
•Clothing 
for the whole family 

•Upholstery 
Fabric 

•Old 
Linens •Jeans 


Trcwel in Ireland Travel in France 
Scotland &France Germany&Switzerland 
Courses in Art, Biology, Business, History, ;:~ :Italian, Music, Sociology, and Theatre{;k~~ )! 
Informational Meeting: Oct 17th ,~;jy' 
Rm 288 Moreau (SMC) · ~ A~l 
*Slides from last year's progra"J'.\... If:\-. 1 
. _ to be shown. t;lJ:-. ~ ·• ~ (
For Further Info. Call r_"·->_\ Prof. A.R. Black 4460 a 272-3716 .... _;1 '!~, 
•Sweaters ********************************** 
* * 
•Shoes 
* * 
•Furniture 
* *
* *' 
•Winter Coats 
* * 
•1940's and 50's Clothing and Hats * * * * FREE HOT AIR 
* *
* * 
BALLOON RIDES 
* *
* * 
(with $5.00 Purchase) 
* *
* *' 
on 
* * 
FRI., OCT 14th * * 
* * 
5:00-7:00PM only 
* *
* * 
(or $2 per ride w/o purchase) 
* *
* * 
** The Refusal ** 
* * 
SIGN UPTOWIN 
~ 1he life anddeathofFranz.Jagers13tter ~ 
•Wood and Cane Rocker 
* * 
•Brass Plated Hall Tree * *
* * 
~ tobeshown:Oct.ll-HayesHealyRm.122 ~
•Three Piece End Table Set 
* Oct. 12-Moreau Seminary * 
~ Oct. 13-Centerfur Social Concerns ;* f · 8 pm, all evenings * 
GOODWILL PLAZA 4 
* ~ Sponsored~: Office ofCampus Ministry * ~
Eddy St. and South Bend Ave. Mon-Thurs 9-7 Fri 9-8 Sat 9-6 * *
* * 
* * 
~*******************************~ 
--·----------------------------------------' 

Today___________________...._w_e_d_n_e_s_d_ay_._o_c_t_o_b_e_r_1_2_.-~-98-3--p·a-ge_l_l 
Bloom County 
OIJ)/ 

NOT 5/X! I TURNW
YW 1HI~ 
P£PU..Y. 5/X 'l€$r;RW.Y/
FOR A v.xxJVC1.W<
I'M IJU), ? 
\ 
'THAT'S Mlflllt£­

Fate 

KAI'II!Sctl ?! nwtK tiOOOHCSS 'fDU CALLED!! wm M.L W~triN(, fOt 
Yo« ... 
\ 
Mellish 
SUE, WE GOT 'IOU 01\TE F~ NUT Wffk'S siYif. '/: , · 
, 

WIN (bJI(l (,40#( Frr 1HE 5PRIM7 Ill MY ~7EP/ ~ STIIJ, 
·· · HIW FIIST t:AN "'" 
kT NE:RE? 
\ 

Campus 
•4:15 
p.m. -Seminar, "The Economic Crisis in Brazil," Dr. Werner Baer, 115 Law School, Sponsored by Kellog Institute 

•4:20 
p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Implications ofHeavy-Ion Induced Satellite X-Ray Emission," Dr. Subramanian Raman, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m.-Chemistry Seminar, "Thirty Years ofNatural Products Chemistry at Eli Ully," Dr. Nor· bert Neuss, 123 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "How Bac­teria Grow and Maintain Their Shape," Dr. Arthur 

L. 
Koch, Galvin Life Sciences Auditoriu 

•6 
p.m. -Film, "The Last Epidemic," LaFortune Little Theatre, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Casablanca," Engineer· ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Graduate Students, S1 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Artemesia Gentileschi, Baroque Italian Painter," Dr. Ann Sutherland Har· ris, Cusha·Leighton Media Center 

•7 
and 9:30p.m. -Film, "Blues Brothers," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, $1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Pax Christi General Meeting, Far­ley Chapel 

•7:30 
p.m. -GLASA Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•8 
p.m. -Amnesty International Meeting, 304 Haggar College Center, SMC 

•8 
p.m. -Film, "The Refusal: The Life and Death of Franz jagerstatter," Moreau Seminary, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 


TV T~night 
" 
6:30p.m. MASH Family .Feud Joker's Wild Straight Talk 

7p.m. Real People ZZ WhizKids Z8 World Series 34 AmericanJourney 
8p.m. 16 Facts oflife zz Wednesday Night Movie 8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 
Far Side 
Clayton frequently watched the monsters, until the night he knocked over the garbage can and was subsequently eaten. 
Wednesday Night 
BEER SPECIAL 
We are starting a· nightly drawing for cash. The pot starts at $20 and goes up $5 every night until some­one wins it all! 
Berke Breathed 

Photius 

Y£S ? ~u.. r YAM Ar THE KDtN£~ OF "WN.Jc• liND •ODN•r WA'-A'~ fltDisc ro UME llliD tnT. 
Dave &Dave 

The Daily Crossword 
h-.-4--4-+---+....-1 18 Ostrich relative 19 Regretting ~+--+----l 20 Intensive questioning -+--+....-1 23 Old card 
27 Rock plant 
Tuesda 's Solution 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
10/12/83
All Rights Reserved 10/12183 
ACROSS 1 ArabA 5 Ungual 9 Freshet 
14 Pro­publico 15 Field 
measure 16 Big cat 17 Beige 30 Sheriff's 
group 32 Makelnto 
law 33 Mud 34 Ready 
money 38 Vend 39 Corrupt 40 Wine flask 41 Membrane 42 Blissful 
abode 43 Scoff 44 Scintilla 46 Military 
students 47 Elapsed 50 High 
mountains 51 Single 
• TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT: • 
: CASABLANCA :
• 
: 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 $1.00 :
•
: ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM •
• *' • 
• Sponsored by the Graduate Student Union :
• 
52 See46D 58 Opponent 80 Swan genus 61 City on 
the Oka 62 Fragrant resin 
63 Sharp flavor 64 Paper 
quantity 65 Finch 66 Heed 67 Edible 
tubers 
DOWN 1 Second 
actively 2-Lomond 3 Religious 
Initials 4 Llkesome 
mall 5 Inure 6 Earthy 
pigment 7 Salem's 
state: abbr. 8 Dread 9 Emphasize 
10 More, In 
music 11 Spry 12 Domingo, 
for one 13 Rye disease 21 Food 
regimen 
22 Artist's stand 26-man (burglar) 27 "-we forget" 28 Arrow 
polson 29 Telephone 30 Yearned 31 Algerian 
port 33 Ancient 
Persian 35 To shelter 36 Barracuda 37 Towel word 39 Italian 
composer 43 Weakens 45 Actor Van­46 Church 
group 47 Minute 
openings 48 Infirm 49 Cut 50 Expiate 53 Newspaper 
section, 
for short 54 Thick slice 55· VIcinity 56 Sports 
group 57 Stately trees 59 "Whata 
good boy-" 
~ -----~-­

This 37-yard field goal 1fith only two minutes left in the game was the only score as the Big Red from Dillon beat Planneryesterday 3-0 on Stepan Field. The two balls were the top seeded teams in 
Game two tomorrow 
Philadelphia takes Series lead 
ByJOHN NELSON 
AssociatedPress 
Garry Maddox led offthe Philadel­
phia eighth inning with a home run 
to break up a World Series pitching 
duel between John Denny and Bal­
timore's Scott McGregor and give 
the Phillies a 2-1 victory over the 
Orioles in Game One last night. 
The game was attended by 52,204, including President Reagan, and played at times in a light drizzle. It matched two ofthe finest pitchers in ba.o;eball but it was decided in a battle of home runs. Baltimore'sJim Dwyer, one of the Orioles' platoon players, belted a first-inning homer and oldtimer Joe Morgan tied it in the sixth for the Phillies. The vic­tory put the PhiUies one game ahead 
in the best-of-seven Series, with 
rookie right-hander Charles Hudson 
pitching tomorrow night in Game 2 
against another rookie right-hander, 
Mike Boddicker of Baltimore. 
Denny and McGregor, both of whom failed to go the distance, matched three-hitters through the first six innings. In the eighth, Mad­dox came to hat against McGregor with the score tied 1-1. During the season he had shared center field with Greg Gross, Von Hayes and Bob 
Dernier and had hit only four home runs. He was one of those unhappy Phillie role players. 
But all that unhappiness wa.'i set a.'iide last night. 
Maddox drilled the first pitch in the eighth over the left-field fence, arming Denny with the lead for the first time. The Phillies nearly had successive homers when Bo Diaz, the next batter, hit a 1-0 pitch that seemed destined to sail over the fence in left field, but John 
Lowenstein timed his leap perfectly 
and snared the ball above and 
beyond the fence. 
Right-hander Denny, a 19-game 
winner during the regular sea.'iOn, 
retired the first two batters in the 
eighth but, when AI Bumbry 
doubled, the Phillies went to their 
bullpen, bringing on relief ace AI 
Holland. 
Denny had given up five hits, but held one of baseball's most ex­plosive lineups to a single run. He had retired I 0 in a row at one point. 
The Phillies had the luxury ofHol­land i the bullpen. He had a club­record 25 saves and an earned run average of 2.26 during the regular season. He retired pinch-hitter Dan Ford on a fly to left on the first pitch, ending the Baltimore threat. 
Holland, in the ninth, retired the Orioles in order, getting Cal Ripken Jr., Eddie Murray and pinch hitter Gary Roenicke. This marked the first time in six World Series that the Orioles had lost the opener. 
McGregor, 18-7 during the season 
and a loser in the 2-1 opening game 
of the playoffs against Chicago, had 
retired four straight batters follow­
ing Morgan's game-tying homer. 
McGregor protected the 1-0 lead until two were out in the sixth and Morgan came to the plate. He had hit 16 home runs during the regular 
season and, at 40 years ofage, he was ready to prove there still was some life in those old bones. 
The count on Morgan, who had only one hit in the National League playoffs, went to 1-2 before he lined the next pitch over the right-center field fence. The huge crowd in Memorial Stadium went silent. 
It was in stark contrast to the 
home first inning, when the fans 
packed into this old park had more 
reason to cheer. 
Bumbry led offby flying to center field and that brought one of ManagerJoe Altobelli's shock troops to the plate. Dwyer, a platoon player in right field with Ford, had only 196 at-bats during the season and eight homers. Denny had given up just nine homers in his 242 2-3 innings work for the Phillies this year. 
So it was a most unlikely occur­rence that gave McGregor a 1-0 lead. With the count 3-2 on Dwyer, a left­handed hitter, Denny's pitch split the middle ofthe plate. Dwyer ham­mered it over the right-center field fence to become the 18th player to homer in his first World Series at bat. 
McGregor left after working eight innings. He had given up just four hits, walking none and striking out six. 
Basketball tournament scheduled for the ACC 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Edttor 
If you are one of the lucky ones who gets to stay in South Bend over Thanksgiving break, you now have something to do other than study. 
It was made official yesterday. You now have the opportunity to see the best women's basketball team in the country, as well as the best player. 
That team, Southern Cal, and that player, Cheryl Miller, will be playing in the ACC over Thankgiving in the Notre Dame Thanksgiving Classic. Also competing in the toufl)ament will be Top Ten teams, Tennessee and Maryland, and Mary DiStanis­lao's Fighting Irish. In short, it is probably one of the best women's basketball tournaments in the country. 
The tournament, which is set for November 25 and 26, never would have come offifNotre Dame had not come through. Originally called the Orange Crush Tournament, and played in the Rosemont Horizon outside of Chicago, the tournament was in jeopardy when Orange Crush, the sponsors, suddenly pulled out a few months ago. Realiz­ing that losing the tournament would be a major setback for the women's basketball program at Notre Dame, Athletic Director Gene Corrigan decided to bring the com­petition to the ACC. 
"We're thrilled we can still have the tourney,'' says DiStanislao. "It's an awesome field and it'd be a shame if it had to be canceled. But we're pleased to be part of it and to play host in front ofour fans." 
"We're very proud to have this 
very, very competitive field come to 
Notre Dame to compete in the clas­
sic,'' Corrigan says. 
"We'll have the defending nation­al champions, the Olympic coach, one of the East's top teams, and our own Irish. I'm sure it'll be a bonafide attraction ft or basketball fans." 
Southern Cal will be the main at­traction. The Trojans finished last season with a 31-2 record and defeated Louisiana Tech in the nationally-televised finals of the NCAA Tournament. Their win over the Lady Techsters broke Tech's two-year reign as national champs. 
Southern Cal, despite its success, has one ofthe youngest teams in the nation last year and, so, the entire starting lineup will return as the Trojans try to repeat their feat. They will be led by 6-2 forward Miller 
see TOURNEY, page 10 
Wednesday, October 12, 1983-page 12 
Irish should have easy time with Army 
huck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 

Hello again, everybody! 
After three consecutive road games where they have had to 
prepare for a tough opponent, Gerry Faust's Fighting Irish get a bit of 
a breather this week as they play the Cadets ofArmy. I cannot sit here 
and honestly tell you the Irish will play a top-notch opponent at 
Giants Stadium this weekend. There is no way Army should beat 
Notre Dame on Saturday -but stranger things have happened, so 
the Irish had better be ready. 
History Lesson ...This traditional series has featured some of 
the biggest names in college football history: K.nute Rockne, Glenn 
Davis, Doc Blanchard, Angelo Bertelli, andJohn Lujack just to name a 
few. But according to writer Mike Steele, the most famous name of 
all didn't get a chance to play because ofan injury. Steele, whose fine 
book on Notre Dame football should be available in bookstores next 
fall, points out in 1913, Army had a fine punter who wa.o; sidelined a 
week before the Notre Dame game with a leg injury. His name was 
Dwight D. Eisenhower, and he went on to win more important 
battles than those on the gridiron. 
And Speaking ofthe Series ...While Army-Notre Dame ha.'i al­ways been billed as a "hard-fought" series. The Irish hold a commanding 32-8 advantage with four ties. Yet, this figure is still a bit misleading, consideringfour ofthose Army victories came during war years, when even Gerry Faust could not have had a better recruiting year than Uncle Sam. The Cadets have not beaten the Irish since 1958, and in the last eight meetings between these two schools, the Irish have outscored Army by a 312-16 margin. These are hardly the results ofa classic series! 
Scouting the Cadets ...With the billions ofdollars our govern­ment pours into defense, you would think they could spend a little on the Army football team, but that obviously ha.<; not been the case. The hapless Cadet~ have already lost this season to such schools as Colgate, Louisville, and Harvard (in football, not a debate). However, Army football coachJim Young does have a few weapons in his in his arsenal. HalJhack Elton Atkins has explosive capabilities, as he exhibited in last week's 20-12 upset of Rutgers. Atkins ran for 
150 yards, and also threw a :ouchdown pass against the Scarlet 
Knights. His speed and versatility could present the Irish with some 
problems. 
Quarterback has been a problem for the Black Knights. Last week, 
third-string signal-caller Rich Laughlin received the starting nod, 
following injuries to starter Rob Healy and backup Bill Turner. Healy 
did see some action last week, and may start against the Irish t on 
Saturday. This sophomore has quick feet and a quick release, but he 
lacks varsity experience. When he does go the air, however, he has 
two fine targets in flanker Jarvis Hollingsworth and split end Scott 
Spellmon. 
Once again, the Irish will run into a defense spearheaded by a pair offine linebackers:Jim Gentile andJohn Roney. Gentile leads Army with 73 tackles, while Roney is second on the list with 60 stops. The line is spearheaded by senior defensive end Larry Carroll, but Coach Young's 5-2 defense is weak up the middle. Therefore, you can look for the Irish to run right up the middle against the smaller Cadets. 
Inspecting Our Troops ...The Irish offensive attack has been most successsful on the ground this year, but it has also shown in­creased potency through the air in recent weeks. Tailback Allen Pinkett and fullbacks Chris Smith and Mark Brooks should have plenty of gaping holes to run through as the Irish line can be ex­pected to roll over the smaller Army defense like a Sherman tank. When the Irish go to the air, they've learned they can depend on Steve Beuerlein. The Fullerton freshman continues to impress everyone with his fine passing touch completing 31 of 52 passes without tossing an interception. He is expected to have another fine outing against the Cadets. 
While the defense did an excellent job against South Carolina, one 
concern of the Irish coaching staff has to be the number of missed 
tackles. More th t an once, Irish tacklers came up with armfuls ofair 
instead ofGamecock ballcarriers. Otherwise, the overall play of the 
defensive unit has shown vast improvement in recent weeks. The 
line will need to maintain pressure on opposing quarterbacks, as the 
secondary breaks in freshman Troy Wilson to replace injured co­
captain Stacey Toran at the strong comer slot. 
Pick ofthe Week ...For those ofyou who thought Notre Dame's chances of a national championship were kissed goodbye after the Miami game, guess again. Coach Sharon Petro's Irish women's tennis team has been working hard towards a Division II national cham­pionship this fall, and they could take a big stc;p towards that goal by capturing the North Star Conference tournament this weekend at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
The Irish netters are undefeated in dual competition this fall, and 
have suffered only one team loss in tournament play. Petro will rely 
on talented senior Pam Fischette to lead the Irish this weekend, but 
the Irish mentor has been extremely pleased with the play of 
doubles .teams Fischeue/Mary Colligan and Greta Roemer/Cathy 
Schnell in recent weeks. However, the Irish will have to look for an 
entire team effort to capture the NSC championship. 
Action begins at 8:00a.m. on Friday and Saturday at the Courtney Tennis Center. Ifit rains, matches will be moved to the indoor courts ofthe Athletic and Convocation Center. 





