~-------­
Sports special-page 8 


The Observer SteveJegier 
Karen Sapp, judy Frame, Katie Traxler, Shelly ]egierandMary Murphy check out the newMen of
Boy watching 
Kelly Fitzgerald (upper left), president ofFar­Notre Dame calendar. The calendars, a fundraiser ley Hall, watches as freshmen (from left to right) for the ball, are on sale now. 


Theologians, academics discuss church's role in modern culture 
VOL XVIII, NO. 58 tht: indt:pt:nuent -.tutkncnew-.paper wn ing rwcn danw and -.ai!llmar~ ·, TtTESDA Y, NOVEMBER 22, 198~ 
By PAUL McGINN 
Executive Editor 
As the world ha~ changed the very meaning of culture, so too has the Catholic Church redefined its in­volvement in the culture of humankind, say theologians and academics meeting here this week. 
Christians "are called to be buil­ders of culture." said Jesuit Father Hervt: Carrier, secretary general of John Paul II's Pontifical Council for Culture. 
"No cuhural crisis should be be 
insuperable, because culture and 
hope can be closely associated." he 
said. 
According to Carrier, "the Church is called 10 act on a twofold level: first, to give testimony to the Gospel's capacity to enrich and build human cultures; second. to pursue the defense of human beings and their cultural development." 
Carrier is one of 50 men and department chairman at Notre 
women from around the world Dame, also attending the con­meeting to discuss the meaning of ference, calls Gaudium et Spes a the Pastoral Constitution of the major landmark of the modern Church in the Modern World. Church. 
The document, commonly known McBrien's book, Catholicism, ex­by its Latin title, Gaudium et Spes, plains the document further. "The one of I 6 documents and the only constitution is not about the Church pastoral produced by the Second and the modern world, but about Vatican Council, was promulgated the Church in the modern world," by Pope Paul VI in I965. he writes. "The Church is not the 
"A Christian order is the social non-world. The Church is not some­
echo ofthe Gospel," said Dominican thing completely apart from the Father Bernard Lambert, and world. Rather, the Church is in the Gaudium et Spes signals that "a new world and the world is in the Christian order has begun to sprout Church." 
in the culture ofour time." Gaudium et Spes has influenced 
The document itself also has in­many recent movements in the fluenced other aspects of the Church, including redistribution of Churc:h, said Lambert. "The style of wealth, non-violence, liberation the pastoral constitution, inductive, theology, justice and peace, accord­concrete, human, has become incor­ing to Lambert. porated in the style of the Church," Gaudium et !;pes reflects three he said. 
see SPES, page 6 
Father Richard McBrien, theology 


Engineering computer system bugged with hacker problems 
By EVAN FARLEY 

News Staff 
The College of Engineering's new Prime computer ha~ been ex­periencing difficulties because of "computer hackers" who have been breaking into files and confidential University programs. 
The problem was noticed earlier 
This is the last issue of The Observer before Thanksgiv­ing break. Publication will resume on Tuesday, November 29. The Observer staff wishes all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community a happy Thanksgiving. 
this year when administrators at the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering dis­covered two cases of "hackers" gaining access to the University's new Prime computer. Dean Roger Schmitz issued a letter saying that if the hackers continued, sophistica­ted safeguards would have to be in­stalled in the system, substantially slowing the computer's operation and making it more difficult for users 
to enter the system. 
The security would include a series of codes, which would inter­
fere  with  the  running  of  some  
programs.  
Schmitz  said  the  problem  has  

decreased since the statement was issued. "I haven't heard ofany other cases," he said. 
Current school policy insures that "every student has access to the Prime computer and can use it any way they like." Schmitz said that the incidences 
··.: ·-~~~· 
of hacking has increased with the recent increase in the use of com­puters. 
As to why hackers don't believe that what they are doing is wrong, Computer Director Paul Go stated that, "People think that they can do whatever they want as long as they don't get caught or as long as they don't hurt anybody." 
Access to the system can be gained through two means. A stu­dent can usc a terminal in Fitzpatrick Hall and, either from knowledge or by deduction, break into a file using certain codes. Or another proce­dure that could be utilized is that a student could break into the Prime through a telephone line. 
After gaining access, Schmitz said a hacker could conceivably "get into another student's homework set and steal or gain information from it. I 
see PRIME, page 4 


Faculty Senate passes motion requesting insurance plan stats 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The Faculty Senate last night passed a motion that would request the Office of Personnel to relea~e to the statistical information concern­ing Group Health Insurance plans presently being made available to the University. 
The Senate was previously told by the Provost's office that, "No statisti­cal data will be released, and all con­tacts with any insurance carriers or similar companies must be made on­ly by the Office of Personnel," according to a report by Senate chairman Mario Borelli. 
On Sept. 2 7, I983, a letter addressed to Michael Reddy, an in­surance underwriter, asking him to seek information about alternative insurance plans for thr University to consider, was sent by the Senate to Provost Timothy O'Meara for ap­proval. O'Meara approved the letter. Reddy later reported contacting five 
companies, which had expressed their willingness to produce unoffi­cial bids within approximately three weeks of receipt of appropriate statistical information related to the membership to be insured. 
The Senate's request was denied 

two days later. 
The Senate passed the motion af­

ter Borelli discovered that the 
Senate is guaranteed certain rights 
regarding such requests. 
Borelli's report continued that, 

"In order to clear the air, an infor­
mal, candid meeting (will) be 
sought between the Senate Chairman. and (Senat~: members) Professors Donald Barrett and Irwin Press. the Director of Personnel, the Vice Prt·sident for Business Affairs and, possibly l'niversitv President Father Theodore Hesburgh." The proposal was not accepted, hut rather a meeting bt·tween Prof Her­bert Sim, Director of Personnel G. Thomas Bull and !he Senate Chair­man was offered. The Chairman's suggestion that Barrett also be in­cluded, as the one Senate member most knowledgable of the issue, was considered for a few days and then accepted. The meeting will take 
place on N\,lv. 25. 

Professor Mario Borelli 

The Senate confronted the issue at an earlier meeting after returning from summer break to find that the University policy concerning Uni­versity faculty and staff insurance 
see SENATE, page 6 

Ten Navy ROTc· seniors selected for nuclear progra 
ByKEVIN BINGER 
Copy Editor 

Ten seniors in Notre Dame's Navy Reserve Officers Training Corps have been s~:lected to undergo training to operate the nuclear reactors that propel submarines. 
The ten were among a group of I 2 that returned from Washing­ton, D.C. last week after being interviewed by the Navy's admiral in charge of nuclear power. 
Last year. 18 Notre Dame seniors were selected for the program, 
the largest number ofany ROTC unit in the country, according to Lt. 
Commander Marilyn Behn. 

"It's recogni2ed as some of the best training in that field by civilians worldwide," Behn said. "It's a high priority for the Navy. They are obviously looking for high quality students." 
The ensigns will spend six months learning how to operate nuclear reactors in a classroom in Orlando, Fla., and another six months working with reactors in New York, Connecticut, or Idaho. The ensigns will spend the last six months oftraining learning about the operations of the sub they will be assigned. 
Each ensign will receive a $6,000 bonus and will he committed to four years ofservice after completing the program. After completing the program. the ensigns are often highly sought after by private utility firms. 
"The industry is extremely interested in people with this back­ground because of the extensive training," said Bchn. "They offer excellent compensation to try to lure the young officers away. The competition is keen." 
Both Bill Daniher and Matt Tenorio, who were among the ten selected, expressed an interest in a career with the Navy. 
"You would hope you would stay in (the Navy)," said Danihcr. "The first four years are the toughest. After that it only gets better." Daniher hopes to eventually command the nuclear power opera­tions on a submarine or one of the Navy's nuclear powered surface ships. 
Neither Daniher nor Tenorio sa:id they were worried about their safety in working with nuclear power. "Not at all," said Tenorio. "If! was I wouldn't have applied." 
·' ... -~~:...-.. ·,, ,.. ~ ·-•l. '.·, .· : ' •.·l'.• ;. ~'---1 


The Observer Tuesday, November 22, 1983 -page 2 


In Brief 

TheAnlerican Civil Liberties Union has condemocd 
the "detention and interrogation of Grenadians hy U.S. troops as a violation of Amc:rican tradition of free speech." In a letter to Presi­dent lkagan, ACLli. Executive Director Ira Glasser said U.S. actions against Grenadians civilians for their political beliefs "made a mock­ery of our stated. intention to establish and maintain political democracy in that hdeaguered country." The ACLU also protested the U.S. government's han on news personnel from the Grenada in­vasion, and its arrest and detention ofseveral reporters who arrived in (irt·nada on their own. -The Observer 
The Knights ofColumbus donated zso steaks 
to the Saint Vincent DePaul's Society, a Catholic charity organiza­
tion. Anotht·r 50 steaks were donated to the Corvilla Home. Both 
donations were a Thanksgiving gift according to KOC officials. 
Obsert,er 

The horror of nuclear war depicted in "The 
Day Afin" may temporarily unnnve people hut it probably won't cause any major d1anges in the arm~ race, a member of the Indiana Nudt·ar Weapon FrtTZ<: Campaign said Monday. "I honestly cannot hdil·vl· thnc will hl· any great groundswell of concern," said Earl Conn of M uncil·. chairman ofthe campaign's steering committee. "I think there will he a little flurry of disc:ussion. some concern expressed by people, hut I thinI-" it will unli>rtunatdy not he of any lasting quality." A!thou gh he questioned the long-term impact ofthe All< >TV movit:. the Ball State I:niversity journalism professor said attcmlanlT at mlTting~ of tht· inli>rmal Muncie Peace Network indi­clle a growing intcrt·M in the anti-nuclear movement. "The hop~ of the pl·an· movl·mcnt is that the movie 'The Day After' will make a significant contribution toward halting. tht· nuclear arms race hy breaking through the psychic numhness of Americans ... and propel thl·m into action," ~aid William Mewes, statt· coordinator for the 
freeze campaign...If 'The Day Alin' docs not mon· Americans into actiilll to halt tlw nuckar arms race, what will? It might take a nu"clt-ar accident, hopdully killing no more than a milli.!.ln people," he addl·d. llowl'Vl'r. Mewes saidthat even though the movie showed "vl'f)' accuratl·" sccnl'S of destruction, it was not "awful en.ough." "The lkpiction oftlll' Kansas City area after a major nuclear attack on Whitl·man Air 1;orn· Base. frightening as it may seem, is probably highly optimistic.:," said Harold Karabdl, chairman of Indianapolis SANE. I k cited a report prepared in 1979 by the Government's ( )flkc of Technology Assessment that stated "the effects of nuclear war that cannot hl' calculatnl arc at least as important as those for 
which ctlculations arc attcmOt\:'d."-AP 
• j IUJJ.~•-11, I.,J.Jit\). 

Of Interest 

Father William M. Lewers of the Holy Cross 
Novitiate in Ca.o;ctdc, Colo., liJrmt·r.rrovincial superior of the In­diana Province of the lloly Cross Fathers, has hcen appointed direc­tor of thl' Ollkl· of International Justice and Peace of the United Stall'S Catholic ( :onfl'renn:. Lewers, a native ofKansas City, ·Mo., and a specialist in intl'fnationallaw. has been on the staff of the Cascade novitiate since 19H I. Following his ordination a.o; a Holy Cross priest at Notre Damt· in 196S he taught law at Notre Dame for two years and again during 1969-...,.'> At Notrt· Dame hl' wa.o; involved in Missis­sippi with the I.awyl'f's Committl't: on Civil Rights, working on 
hospital dc;;egrt·gation suits, voterregistration, and other civil rights issul:S. lie also workcd.in Ddano, Cal.. with Ceasar Chavez's United l'arm Workers Organizing Committee and the California Rural Legal Assistanl·e Program. -7111! Obsen•er 
Staying over break?The World Hunger Coalition is 
spt>ll~oring a Thanksgiving dinner at St. Augustine's soup kitchen for the nt·e.Jy residents of the area. Anyone interested in helping to serve the dinner from II a.m. to 2 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day should contact Carol at 79:B or Matt at ~578. Transportation will he provided. -The Obsen•er ·. 

Weather , , . 
Mostly cloudy, windy and warm today with a 4o 
percent chance of afternoon showers. llighs around 60. A 70 per­tTnt chance ofshowers with a possible thunderstorm tonight. Mild, with the low around 50. Showers likely tomorrow. Turning cooler. Highs in the mid 50s. Outlookjor Thanksgiving Day: mostly cloudy and cool. Highs in the 40s. -AP. 

Examining finals 
Many students breathed a sigh of relief last Thursday 
when the University Academic Council decided to 
delay action on a series ofproposed major revisions to 
the Academic·Code. 
Most of those students had just finished gasping after 
learning of the proposals through the grapevine or in 
the previous day's Observer. A lot of students had not 
heard ofthe proposals at all. 
The p_roposals were the· result of a study conducted 
by a six-member faculty committee formed in March by 
University Provost Timothy O'Meara. The committee 
rep<>rt was presented at Wednesday's closed meeting 
by Father James Burtchaell, a member of the commit­
tee. 
•Graduating 
seniors would no longer be eligible for ex­emption from fil}al exams if they earned a "B" grade or higher during the semester. Graduating seniors are cur­rently eligible for such an exemption at the discretion of the instructor. • 

•The 
'current policy that "a two-h<iur final examination must be given at the time and place stipulated iii the official exam schedule" would be enforced. Any ex­ceptions to this policy would have to be approved by the department chairman and reviewed by the"dean. 

•The 
final exam would be weighted "not less than qne­third or more than two-thirds of the semester's work in determining the final grade." 



Many students viewed the proposals as shocking addi­tions to their already bur­dened workload. Some were annoyed that the committee report and recommendations were presented to t!:le Academic Council before other campus councils were consulted. 4 
Accepting the University's claimed dedication to academic excellence, one can understand the commit­tee recommendation that senior exemptions be ended. ·some will~rotest the the change on the grounds that graduating seniors have many other worries at that time. Finding a way ofbuying food in the coming weeks comes immediately to mind. 
There ·are compromises between the two extremes, however. Many fine universities require a senior. thesis before graduation. This would go beyond the "research paper':. that Notre Dame finds an unacceptable a!­ternative to final exams-and allow the senior to plan his time according to his own needs. 
Enforcing the requirement that an exam must be given in each class could never be done, short ofhaving a University oftkial monitor each room to ao;sure all 

_ The_Ohs.eryer_ 
ComjJ(JS/tion Editor . ...... Thoma..., Rt~ht'rt 
~mall 
Con1position As.'~istant .......... At homt: for 
turkcy J)•pe.<<'llers ............................ Tracy and T~d .'Veu•s /:'elitor....... . ................ Vic Sciulli Copy Editor....... .. Purnima Bose 
Sports Copy Ed I tor ................ Sick in bed 
Sports Special LtO'UU/.......... Mike Sullivan l:.'dito,.iuls Layout ............... Ken Cerabona ND Day Editor .................,. Melinda Moore .weDll)' Editor ............. Mary B~tb Poner 

·•Photographer........................... Steve J~gicr Gut•st AjJpearanres ... Brian Rl'imt'r, Amy, Chuck from R'ton, Domino's ddiv~rs on· ly to the first floor door, Dzavc, Paul, Keith, my friend Kevin, anyon~ else who washcrt' 
Quote ofthe Day 
To u•hom it may concern ( abtogenesl.s); 
The shou• u•as great but I know not u•bci 
inr,ited me!! Lei me knoU'· T.R.S. 
I real(!' don't u•ant to be here 
The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays., except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Obaerver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Obaerver. P.O Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
Thit Obaerver is a member of The Auocl8ted PreN. All reproducllan rights are reserved. 

r••••••••••••••• 6.50 Savings •••••·------., 
ID4t 1Kniglfts nft4e <trasil.e 
'' minutes from campus II 
Hair Cut Shampoo Blow Dry & Condition Reg. $15·00 Now $8·50 with coupon 
T, W 8:30·5:30 

offer only applies to male patrons 
Th 8:30-8:30 Fr 8:30-6:00 s 8:30-2:30 

277-1691 272-0312 
-·•••••••••••••6.50 Savings ••••••••••••-•.1 
54533 Terrace L•n•, Sout~ S.nd(Across from 
Msrtln's on S.R. 23) 
Applications for 
MOCK CONVENTION COMMITTEE HEADS and CAMPAIGN MANAGER POSITIONS 
sho~be picked up at the Student Govt. Offices at LaFortune before Thanksgiving and turned in byTUESDAY, NOV. 29 
Managing_ 
Editor 
Ins 
professors are following the rules. 
If a professor feels that the final exam (ormat is not practical for a particular course, the professor will find a way to get around it. A required exam policy is in the Academic Code right now. Having it in writing doesn't prevent certain professors from giving ridiculously easy 
·"exams" just to satify the University requirements. 
The proposal to make final exams worth at lea~t o~e­third and not more than two-thirds of the gratk should not be passed without major restructuring of the class 
load. Most students arc al­ready overburdened during exam time. 
One member ofthe Coun­cil criticized the plan: "The problem is that with fresh­men, I 13 is a considerable amoum of the grade if it is a course that has frequent ex­ams, which is the case in many lower level classes." 

In the case that the grade weight of the final could ac­tually be; doubled (the cur­rent maximum is one-third), the class load should be ad­justed so the student is less burdened early in the • semester. 
Getting some input from 

students and college coun­cils would have been helpful before the committee report was presented to the Academic Council. Several Council members intervfewed by The Obsen,er said they felt student imput should have been sought before tlie presentation. With five studef!t representatives on the Council, one wonders why one of them was not ao;kcd to be on the committee. 
More than half of the Council members who wert interviewed by The Obsen'er prior to last Wednesday's meeting thought the matter would be voted <in at that meeting. "There is no reason it couldn't be voted on," said one member._ 
None of those interviewed said they had discussed the issue with any of the other members. The Council wisely decided that much more ihput on the issue is needed. 
llndoubtedly, as the Council determined, the issue of the proposed changes is itself in need of a major ex­amination. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 22, 1983 -page 3 

Histo1-y prof discusses legacy of Kennedy 
By PATRICK MULLEN 
News Staff 
John F. Kennedy is regarded by historians as one ofthe top 15 presi­dents in U.S. history, but Professor Vincent P. DeSantis believes this rating is based mort: on his glamour and style than on his achievements. 
DeSantis, a history professor at the University for 34 years and an authority on the American presidency, said that Kennedy was a man of hope, but that his placement among the best American presidents is due more to the fact that he was killed before he could implement the programs he had planned, than his efficiency in office. Today is the twentieth anniversary of Ken­
nedy's assassination in Dallas. He 
was 46 years old and had spent one 
thousand days in office when he was 
shot. 
When Kennedy was running for 
presidency aga inst Nixon in 1960, 
he promised change, said DeSantis. 
"He wanted to rejuvenate the 
presidency and get the nation going. 
He believed, at the start, that if they 
(he and his staff) applied themselves they could do something about the nation's problems. He didn't realize how difficult it was." 
Though the Democrats had sub­stantial majorities in both the House of Representatives and the Senate, Kennedy found himself "caught in a political stalemate," claims DeSantis. Although they belonged to the same party, the Southern Democrats strongly opposed Kennedy's refor­mist ideas, especially those on Civil Rights. He found himself having to compromise. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association, in cooperation with the Career & Placement Services Office, will again sponsor the Summer Job Placement Program in 1984. 
If you are interested in applying for summer jobs in an alumni club city, obtain an application from the Alumni Office, 201 Admin. Bldg. 



Applications must be completed and returned by Nov. 30 
Kennedy's record in foreign policy is not one of the best either, says DeSantis. "He got us deeper into Vietnam and launched the arms build-up which has led to the present struggle between the U.S. and the Soviet Union for arms super­iority." Kennedy also approved the ill-fated Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in the attempt to overthrow Fidel Castro. 
DeSantis said that Kennedy's belief that the U.S. was behind the Russians was unfounded. According to DeSantis. the U.S. was militarily superior to the Russians at the time. 
Said DeSantis "He believed that it's necessary to have a superior military force and be willing to use it. It was almost as if he was lookng for a fight at times." 
"At the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis, Kennedy's handling of the af­fair was hailed," said DeSantis, "but recent historians say that he was too tough and risked too much for too little." Kennedy is criticized for bringing the U.S. to the brink of nuclear disaster by blockading Cuba instead of pursuing further diplomatic means. 
Many of Kennedy's supporters 

claim that had he been reelected, his 
legislation would have been passed, 
he would have pulled the U.S. out of 
Vietnam, and would have brought a 
stop to the Cold War predicament, 
DeSantis said. DeSantis said that this 
statement "can't be proven one way 
or another." What we know of Ken­
nedy as a president we know from 
his stay in office. which DeSantis 
claims was "too brief' to analyze. 
Steve jegier
Professors Mitchell Lifton and William 

math ofa nuclearattack on Kansas City. See Amy
McGlinn led a discussion last evening about "The 

Stephan's story be/ou•for more details.
Day After" the 1V movie dealing with the after-



ND profs lead discussion on ways to prevent nuclear crisis situation 
ground with the Russians that nc:it­her of us wants nuckar war." said Tom Gregg. "We nced to learn to manage a crisis with the Russians." 
McGlinn discusscd thc tcchnical accuracy ~lf thc "Thc Day Aftcr." noting that ofthc physicists hc hcard discussing the movie yestlTday morning. "they agreed to a man it was a mild prcscntation of nuclear war." Although hc said. "I don't think thcrc arc any expert.~ on nuclcar war." McGlinn pointed out a few discrepancies he noticed in the movie. 
"The movic was not a vivid showing because there were no burn victims," said McGlinn. "Thcrc is no question that there would bc burn victims eight to nine milcs out and second dcgrcc burns out fur­ther." Hc noted that the lack of facilities to care for these burn vic­tims would present a grave crisis in the event of nuclear attack. 
Although a high altitude cxplo­sion would cause a clectromagnctic pulse. thc movic showed "a mis­rcprcsentation of what would ac­tually happcn," said Mc<;linn. It is "not likely that cars would stop (as they did in the movie). Powcr anll long-range communication would go,"hc said. 
Katy Gibson brought up the ques­tion of civil defense. McGlinn rcplied that while somc shelter would be helpful at first. the end result would not be very useful. llc addcd thc myth that the Soviets have an extensive civil defense program is false. Although they once started such a program, said McGlinn, the Soviets now arc "convinccd that nuclear war means death." 

Michael Brennan, chairman of Ground Zero. said the movie was good in that it promoted discussion, hut stressed the importance of knowledge ofthe nuclear issue. 
"If we arc going to challenge the experts, we have to know what's going on," said Brennan. 
Students-Campus Reps Part-Time-Evenings-Weekends 
SALES JOBS 
Earn extra dollars calling on people who have requested information on our products. We see mainly by appointment in a dignified and professional manner. Complete training offered. 
For details, call Dr. Thompson at 287-2926 

By AMY STEPHAN 
Copy Editor 
"The Day After," the ABC televi­sion movie dealing with the nuclear destruction of Kansas City, was the topic of discussion last night at the Center for Social Concerns. 
"Are we talking about a movie? Of course we're not. Because this movie, while it is t a movie, is about a issue we are discovering we can no longer duck," said Mitchell Lifton, chairman of the department ufcom­munication and theatre, who led the discussion along with William McGlinn, physics professor. 
"We can no longer abdicate this responsibility to the experts," said Lifton. "The experts put us where we arc today." 
"We have more power in this room than we want to believe." said one participant. The group of ap­proximately 50 students and faculty members discu"ssed ways in which individuals can usc this power to prevent a nuclear crisis such as that in "The Day After." 
A demonstration against the deployment of the Euromissiles is tentatively being planned for the Thursday after break, said Peter Graham. adding that those in­terested should contact him. 
Collecting signatures, encourag­ing students to cxercisc their right to vote, talking up the need for ana~ tiona) and international pe<1ce academy, staging a write-in cam­paign and holding a Mass for peace were discussed as possible ways for individuals to help prevent a nuclear tragedy. 
"Nuclear war is impossi!Jie and as individuals we must first convince ourselves that this is true," said Phil Bender. adding that. "The power we have as individuals is much stronger than we have as a group." "Until we perceive war as totally disgusting and obscene, we will have war." said John Dettling, a member of the audience. 
"Wc need to establish common 

ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA 

•.. 
. ......... ~ ... t........ ...... .. . . ... _... ___ ---·------------------·.... -.--... -.. ---... ------... 
The Observer Tuesday, November 22, 1983 -page 4 

Student Senate discusses disclosing of ~Diversity investment records 



By ELIZABETH.FLOR 

-_News Staff 
Student Senate Parlianu:ntarian Mike Brennan said last night that he believes that trniveristy President Father Theodore Hesburgh is not receptive. to the idea or disclosing university investme~ts. 
"Ted Ueshurgh is not looking at this very fairly," Brennan said 'afie~ speaking to Hesburgh. "I It: was real­ly opposed to the idea:" . -Brennan said that he was ene<iuraged with the prospects of disclosure after his meeting with Bob Wilmouth. Chair­man of tlie Investment Committee of the Board of Trustees. · The 
Th~ ObKrver StevejegJt:r 

Committee of Students f!>r Respon­
Saying 'bye 
sible Investments will focus on the l :niversity's alleged support of the
Pasquerillu West residents laura NaRY. Mary jane Lorton, ami f.'atb)• Schafer uwve goodl~ye as their friend Katie Shannon leaves 
MX missile. Brennal1" thinks that the commit­

eitr(J' for Pittsfmrgh for Thanksgir•ing break. Vacation official(y 
tee "has met a brick wall about· the
be?,Ins tomorrmt• at 12:30. 

disclosure ofinvestments by the uni-


Strong evidence of ~conoffiic ·good times jn 1984; caution for 1985 
. . . 

AssociAted Press 
' 
WASIIINC;TON' (a·p~ Tht· na­lion t·an look for economic good times next year hut had better look· out in I<)H';, a national group ofhusi­
. ness economists said Monday in a. new survt·y of analysis' forecasts. 
l\leanwhik, the dghth oft'spring of American Tekphone & ·Tdegraph Co. got a rousing reception from 
· Wall Str~t·t Monday, as they made their stock-market debuts in preparation for tht· breakup of the nation's largt·st corporation. 
The report from thc National As­sodarion· of Business Economists said the C1.:onomy should still he expanding strongly during the clec­tion year of IWI~. wiih un~mploy­mt·nt continuing to dt•clint· and 
. inflation holding steady. 
• ,.flowl'?t·.r. most of tht· an;1lysts ex-rx·ct the Ct!rrot·nt t'l'oiwmk rt·covcry tu peak in ll)H';-only ahout three 
·years aftn it began __: unkss govern­nlt'nt ddkits can ht: substantially rnluced. thl· rt·port indkatl·d. 
That timt·t;~hk~ might appear to he good nt·wsJi>r President Reagan and· otlwr politkal incumbents runniflg li>r offitT m·xt )Tar: Burit looks kss t1vorahlc thr husine's managers and \\·orkers. 
For tht: short tl·rm. "'What wt·'re reilly talking about is strong cviltl·nn· of good tim,es i11. I <)H4," 
I. \ 
l ' 
said Ni(:holas Filippdlo, prt·sident of 
th~· economists group. • 
...J 

continuedjf'om page I 
am awart· of some mischievous 
., things th;lt have gont· on occasional­ly ol1t:ampus that look a littlc hit like satwtage. For instance. t·ntering into :u10iher .''tmknt's filcs and t•rasing inti>rmation •>r ddt·ting a program or " file. It is a littk likt• '\oandalism. The studt·nt who docs the ddeting or t-rasing dot·s•lo't get anything, hut hurts the other student." Thert· ar~· other things that could he done to a person's tiles onct· an acn·ss t·ode has bt;en broken. "A person 1.:ould dilute not just other student's files hut also system t11es, making it very tlifticult for us to run tht· system or alter a file, which is al­most as worse as ddeting one be­caust· tht• writt·r wont'! knnw that the fik he has is wrong." "There wa.' a ca.'e last year on the Burroughs System wht·re a person did gt·t something maliciously dektcd," Go said. Damage could also ht· done uni­ntentionallv hy somt·one who 
On the New York Stock Ex­
.hchange Monday, the prices of the 
telephone companies-t<i-be tluc­
tuatt·d widdy on their first .day of 
trading. . 
But the llow ofht.ry and sdl orders 
didn't Fcack the avalanche pmpor­
titms some tJb~e~vcrs had predicted 
bc.:fo~ehand. Analysts generally 
agreed that the unprecedented in­
troduction l>f more than I.5 billion 
shan.:s into the market, had been, 
done with a minimum ofproblums. 
• By the close of the N'YSE, almost 
14.5 million shares of the various 

• telephone stocks, new and old,.had changed hands (>n' the ·NYSE and n:gional exchanges :tround the na­tion. That was 12.5 percent·of the ~ day's total activity in all those markets. • . 
AT&T is splitting off its local 
operating companies as a part Rf a 
jai\Uary I <)H2 settlement of· an an­
tirrust suit brought hJ' the JuStkc 
Department. AT&T will retain its 
long-distance, manufacturing and 
research units and is being allowed 
to n>mpt·te i.n unregulated business 
art·as previously hai-rcd to it. 
Tht· m:w companies won't offi­
cialfy exist as se('>arat<: entities until 
Jan. I. when the breakup becomeS' 
ofticial. But trading w;ts opened 
Mon~ay to allow iht· markcts to start 
putting prices on the separate 
pkccs. ~a}· merit ·and stock· delivery . 
are to ne settkd early in the nev;• 
year. 
The most heavily traded Big 
• • . Prime 
hrt·aks in. but is not wcfl anc~uaintcd with rhc system. Said Go, "Quite of­ten you accidentally type in some­thing because you arc .not familiar with the system that could do cer· tain irreversible dammagl'"to the sys­
. tt:m." . "On this campus I do not think it ( h;icking ) has been used ~xtensivc· ly," Schmitz said. "Since the problem ha.'i not -grown, the only safeguards :we "havt· taken is that certain com­mands_simply won't work. It'spretty much up to tht· individual to design his own saft-guards." "Computer hackers should at least know that what they arc doing is unethical," Go said. "It may still be legal in the sense that there is no law·· covering spccitk action, espccjally with rl·spect to computers because computers arc relatively new. It may not be explicitly on the books yet, but at least a person ought to know that what they are doing is not, per­haps, illegal, bur they should not do it because ofpersonal integrity." 

Board stock 'was the "new" AT&T, which opened at $19 per sharc and later slipped to $18, with more than 8 million shate;thar1ging hands. 
Trading was a little less active in the seven regional companies. At the close in New York, Amcritech was selling for $65.12 a sl,lire; Bell Atlan= tic, $70.25; 6ell South, S90.38; NYNEX, S62.12; Pacific Tel'esis, S55.12; Southwestern Bell, _S6l.62; and US Wc:s~ $59.12.-0rie share of each of thos~ companies is to be issued for each 10 exisitng A"I~4T shares. 
. On t/lc economists' report, Filip: pcllo said tht: group's meLpbers ex-· pcct a wide range of -indicators of economic health to .do well ·next year, includjng housing starts and · aut.o sales. Total econo.mic growth should b<: about 5 percent after ad· justmcilt for inflation, while prices should rise no more than about the 
. ..

same am~>unt, they said. 
vcrsity". The committee will ap­proach the Student Senate for their approval of the disclosure of invest­ments next week. 
· The Senate also discussed pians for the temporary ice rink that would be located on the Stepan bas­ketball courts. 
Senator Rob Bertino said that Physical Plant Director Don Dedrick "was thinking of a more temporary rink," before expanding it into a more permanent sttucture. The. Stu­dent Union is planning a skating party in January and the Senate thinks that this would be a good chance to test the rink's success. 
-Student Body Vice-President Peg­
gy. Prcvoznik said that a six-week 
stress management course which 
will be offered as-a rotation option in 

the Physical Education Department-­
begins next spring. The course will 
continu~if it is popular. The focus 
will include topics such as se.lf­assessment, nutrition, alcohol usc, and · male-female rdationships. 
featuring speakers from Psychologi­cal Services, the Dining Hall Ad; ministratitm. and prrhaps some students. 



SMC students satisfied 
. . 

with activities poll says 
By CHRISTY SMITH 
Neu•sStaff 

Most Saint Mary's students are satisfictl witb the at'tivities offered through "the College, according to the campus-wide survey results dis­cuss~d at last night's Board ofGovt;r­nancc meeting. • 
The overall result of the survey 
was positive,· according to Mary Ann 
Potter, who formulated the program 
along witl] the Programming Board. 
Potter r<;ported. the results of the 
survey. . 
Both Elaine Hoctor and Lee Ann 
Franks, president and vice-president 
of Student Affairs, said that they 
were pleased with the responses of 
the students. 

The survey was conducted earlier this month in the diili~g.hall. Mem­bers ofthe st4dent govemmem ran­dorRiy chose 300 respondants. "The sttrye'y• incorporated all activities of 
the Programming Board -tradi­tl'onal events, speakers, ent~rtain­ment; aild Christian Life Commission," explained Potter. "It's purpose !s to acquire feedback from the students-" . 
The" five-hall dapce and the mgvle~ wert: among the more popular events on the survey. Some of !he more recurring requests in­
clu~ed initiating a LeMans Hall Mass, 
,sponsoring even more on·campus 
films, and otl'cring more kctures to 
the students.. Leo Ba~caglia was a 
popular suggestion. · _ 
-Schedule conflicts afld lack of 
publicity were blamed for poor at­
tendence at some events according • to the sur¥ey. • 
Potter concluded hy saying, "Most of the activities people .wantc,:d on campus ar.e already being 
planned or have occurred." . 
Among other wpics discussed at 
the meeting was the success of last 
week's events. The workshops and 
speeches of Wmncns' Opportunity 
Week wer" generally very well at­
tended by the students. Over one­
half of the student body, I 00 more 
than last year, participated in the 
Oxfam Fast. 
The blood.. drive collected .91 
pints of blood. Another drive is aJ. 
ready being planned. 
An event titled"Adopt a Family" is 
being sponsored by the board. Each 
floor _Q.f every residence hall is 
sponsoring a needy family in the 
South Bend area. At the meeting, haH 
residents were urged (() give food 
items, toys, clothes, and small 
motlctary donations. Collected 
ite!Tis '"'ill'be given to the ·family at · 
Ghristmas. 

.----------------­



1 EVERYONE DOES IT! 
t Now Have A Place to -Keep.Them.
t 
1

f ~;!;~, B~ a~:,-~,:aed.
·A • Historical Perspective . • GD. name & address
er 

, and more. . Bg·. . ........~... for use as a lat1el. UNIQUE To: OUIBBLEDICKER
t 8 
P.O. Box 7651t GIFT . Pi~s.burgh,' PA 15214 • 
L . 
"STUDENT DISCOUNT-$1 OFF with this ad. 

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ..-......~ ~ ~ ~ ..-..~ ~ ~ ~ 
. . 

-1 r------------------. 
j 
BANKING•• !'NOW ON CAMPU$ AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers tree checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students tmd faculty. 
In addition, our r.1ewest office brings you the convenience of 27 bank!ng locations to serve you! . ·• 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs. 11:30 a.m. -3:30 p.m. · Friday 11:00 a:m.-4:00 p.m.. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 
•· ;l: 

~source
-•Bank 
Member F.D.I.C. 
tj Lee's Ribs · 
t~ B!JY tw_o_ regular
t 1 dinners and receive t I $2 off with this 
A 11 COUpOn
t' .• . ­
f 

f I 
.Ll . Explr~s 11-23-83 _
. 1 -----------------! 

l· 





View~oint 
Tuesday, November 22, 1983 -page 5 
John F. Kennedy's Camelot legend 
We honor Lincoln on his birthday -for hi:; whole life and the man he was. We honor Roosevelt on his inauguration day -for the New Deal he usht~red in. We honor Kennedy on his death day, 20 years later, for his martyr-
Max Lerner 
The Lerner Column 
. 

dom and the man he might have become. 
I welcome the intent ofthe current spate of Kennedy literature, to portray a literate and classy president. But a heroic, mythic figure? The evidence for it simply isn't there. 
What is there is the most attractive style of any president ofthe century, comparable only to Jefferson's in an earlier century. But the reality about Kennedy is that aiJ his life 
seemed to be a preparation for something that never quite came off. The way he did things was more wonderful than what he did. His most .admiring recent biography, William Manchester's: One · Brief Shining Hour: Remembering Kennedy, offers a stylish text and pictures which adorn each other and to­gether have a quality ofcel.ebration. Kennedy has been lucky in having biographers like Ar­thur Schlesinger. Theodore Sorensen, William Manchester, who shared his friendships. values and experiences and who write as colorfully as he lived. They have a stake in his reputation, which is fine for friends but deadly for biographers. 
A biographer should have a warm, empat­hetic heart but he must by necessity, in Yeat's phrase, cast a cold eye, even (and especially) on those close tcfhim. 
Kennedy was living proof that a president can· create a climate of fun, playfulness and ebullience .among his friends and aides, and lift the hearts of the young, and surround the 
Mistor~ of t~e WOmen's Ri8hts D'ebate. 



U.S. relations in ·~atin America respectable 
Published in the November I 5 Observer was a statement signed by a group of intellec­tuals, some of them affiliated with Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute. Alpong other things, the statement attributed much of Latin 
. .
... 

Fred Pike 
Guest c_olumn 

America's ills ( including.fascist dictatorships) to ·u.s. intervention. By implication it would follow that Latin Americans enjoyed a relatively Edenic existence from the 1820s, when most oftheir republics gained in<kpen­dence from Spain, to the 1890s. 
During this period, except for the Mexican· war, the United States. seldom intervened actively in Latin America Instead, the United States devoted itself to. a task that Latin 
.Americans have eschewed through the years: 
internal·development" resting in part on the 
efficient and relatively honest use of foreign 
capital. Rather than thriving during the ex­
tended period offreedom from U.S. interven­
tion, Latin Americ« in general alternated 
between being a jun'gle and a zoo, and 
produced a sorry spectade of squabbiing 
neighbors as the more powerful plundered 
the lands of the less powerful: 
In many ways, Latin America has presented 
a rather less sorry spectacle since consistent 
U.S. intervention began, although I would not necessarily argue a cause-and-effect relation­ship. 
Through the years, Argentin:i·has been the Latill American country freest from U.S. inter­vention. Yet, sihce the 1950s, Argentina, politically and economfcal!y, has been one of 
theTworst basket cases in the entire interna­tional community. The fault, l-think , can scarcely be attrib4ted to the United States. 
. 
White House with_.a species ofsorcery. 
Manchester works hard to capture this, put­
ting himself and his memories into the 
picture, using an impersonal you where an I 
would have been more direct and less coy. 
Ralph Martin, in]FK-A Hero For Our Times, 
does it by direct quotes from his array ofinter­
views, and even the exhaustive details of Ken­
nedy's womanizing, in and out of the White 
House, don't diminish his seeming admiration 
for his hero. 

. But what falls through the interstices of 
both books, between the atmosphere anJ 
style, is the thing itself -the critie<tl assess­
ment of Kennedy's decisions and the charac­'ter ofthe man himself. 
Thus. Kennedy dealt brilliantly with the 
Cubari missile crisis, but he had created tht: 
conditions for it earlier in his Bay ofPigs fiasco 
-the conditions also for Castro's successes in 
guerrilla warfare to which Keimedy had to 
respond with counter-insurgency measures. 
Equally, Kennedy did wonderfully with his 
lch bin ein Berliner speech, which heartened 
·the citizens of West Berlin, but tht·y needed heartening because Kennedy had stood by in helpless anguish while the Berlin Wall was being built. 
Harry Truman, by contrast. had a square style and not beautiful people around him, 
'and no courtiers and partisans in the media. But he made Jecisions which have stood the _test oflater decades, cutting through the mists and myths of. history to the very bone of con­sequences. 
The Camelot legend lives on in m6!;t of the Kennedy biographies. and fc>r many who are still stirrt:·d by the one briefshining moment of Kennedy's tragic life. But for the rest Mus, what c-ounts is all the days of our years that have followed his spotty decisions. Our fas­cination with sorcery. followed by death -or the l.leath of the sorcerer -may be the key to the myth that lives on. not King Arthur but 
Merlin. · •· Copyright 1983, Los Angeles Times Syn.dicate 


.' QUE.'iTIOt-1: · What:s HOtJr reaction to the TV movie "The Day After,., abo11t the destruction of Kansas Cit~ in a nudear war 1 
IT SMD IT CONTAINLD SCLNlS I'M FROM THE N(TWORK, .If I Wf\NT TO WA'Tt~ PtoPLL 
t:J GAAPUK VIOLtNC£, SO I AND I'D LIKL TO SA~ IT SIIOWS RtOUCED TO TllliR MOST 
'TALK£0 TO M't' KIDS· . UTT~R LACK Of "UMAN ABJLCT, PITIFUL CONDITION, T~~V SAID I SIIOIJLDN'T WATC.M. CAN'T MAKE ASERIES OUT Of I CAN WATC~ 'fAMILY FLUD.' 
Furthermore, the current Latin American . dictatorship that is most effective in stripping citizens ofpolitical freedom is Cuoa. In many ways Cuba is ~s much a fascist as a communist" · dinatorship. Here is one fascist dictatorship that the United States can scarcely be blamed for having impQ~ed upon Latin America. Any impartial observer must surely recognize that Latin Americans have not· consistently rt:­quired outside help irr taking to dicta!Hrship. 
By blaming all their ills on the United States, Latin Americans hope to inspire hair-shirted 
U.S. liberals to more prodigious acts ofcharity. The Latin Americans have always understood that charity begins in the United States. But they have seldom faced up to the reality that autonomy begins at home. Latin Americans and third-worlders in general can never escape underdevelopment until they face up to the fact that the fault lies not in the United States, but in them!ielves, tha.t they are underl­ings. 
While certainly not unblemished, the U.S. 
record of relations with Latin America · thn~ugh the years is, on balance, one that I find defensible. Furthermore, U.S. domt:stic in­~titutions, while always in need of ongoing ~ .. reforms, merit admiration. Their security deserves to be defended whel1 threatened, ~specially when the threat arises within the vital Central Amer:ican and Caribbean region. 
However, if ever evidence develops "that anti-demou:atic and anti-capitalist models result, overall, in demonstrably better societies than that of the United States, then I may join in the chorus ofthose who coridemn the United States for taking adequate steps to safeguard the security of its democracy and capitalism. ' • 
Meantime, I'll hope the United States con­tinues to take effective measures to protect itselffrom risks arising in contiguous areas out of the utopian dreams that Latin America seems to inspire in intellectuals, whether the are themselves Latin Americans or only U.S. 
'observers ofthe Latin American scene. 
t 


I 
EditorialBoard D~entManagers 
Editor-in-Chief.. ... David Dziedzic 
P. 0. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 4'6556 ( 219) 239-53Q3 ,Uanaging Editor ....................... Margaret Fosmoe Business .Wanager ................ <:hristopher <>wen 
The Obsen1er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l"ni­Executir•e Editor.................................Paul Mc(iinn Controller .............................................Alex Szilv.t~ versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rdkct Neu·s Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide Ad1•ertising Manager.. ...............Jeanit· Pook j the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­/lieU'S Editor.............. .... Mark Worscheh Circulation Manager..... ...........:\lark .\liouo 
j 
curately and as objectively a~ possibk. L:n;;igned editorials represt:nt the opinon of a Saint Mary•'s Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski .\)•stems iHanager ..........................Kevin William~ j majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present Sports Editor ................................. Michael Sullivan Composition Manager.. ..........Suzanne La Croix 
'J
the views oftheir authors. Column space is availabk to all members ofthe community. Features Editor ...............................Sarah Hamilton 
J 
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. Photo Editor..................... .....Scott Bower Founded November 3, 1966 
j 

r The Observer Tuesday, November 22, 1983 -page 6 
continuedfrom page I 
had been changcd from a "first dol­
lar" covcragc (in which faculty and 
staff rccicvcd full medical insurance 
C!JVeragc without paying prcmiums 
or any deductibk} to a policy in 
which a mcmber of thc faculty or 
staff would bc rcsponsiblc for up to 
$1 200 dollar per year in deductible 

chargcs. 
Following his n·ading of hi!> 
n:port, Borelli exprcssed his con· 
cerns for the futurc of thc issue: 
These includt·d making surc that any 
suggt.·stions made to thc Office of 
l't-rsonnd rq~ard not only the 
prt·st.·nt plan, hut also tht.· p!an that 
was abandoned ovcr thc summcr. 
Abo. tht· timing of tht· Scnate's plans 
was said to be a great concern. 
Borelli said ht· wanted to avoid thc 
siluation in which thc suggestions 
would be kcpt idle hJr a few months 
and then al:tcd upon when thc 
St·natc had littll' or no say in the mat­
tt'f. 
Ont· of tht· most major concerns, 
an·onling to Bort·lli, was of the at­
titudes hctwn·n the Administration 
and tht· Senate. In a Nov. I I. I f.JH5, 
artide in The Obser.•er, Bull said, 
"This is dassit' employer/cmploycc 
t·ontrovasy." Borclli said that he 
was personally ofkndt·d by this 
remark. 
In the same artide Bull also said, 
"The rww policy is dcsigned to en­
couragt· rcsponsihk insurance ex­
rwnditun·s. If pcopk havt· to pay as 
they ust· the st·rvin·. thcy'll be more 
careful." 
Borelli respondnl to this saying, 
"Wt· have not St'l'n an instance of 
ahust·. They must think that we are 
hypod10ndriacs and dishonest." 
Another prohkm of attitudes that 
the Senate and pt·rsonncl office must 
• • • Spes 

continuedfrom page I 
central New Tcstamt·nt themes, hc said, including thc Bt·atitudes, the parables, and tht· miracles. 
And whik tht· Gospels should lead Catholics toward a better society, Lambert cautioned "secularization is not an evil." 
(iaudium et Spes realizt·s that a 

human "is both nature and culture. 
and not only nature for he would not 
ht· a man, and not only culture as 
culture cut from its original sourl'l' 
is insane as we set· in torture, abor­

tion on demand, nuclcar armamt·nts, 
or artificial birth control," ht: said. 
l~unhert warnt·d howcvt:r, that many nations now ptTVcrt the tnrc meaning ofculture to uSt· thc person "as a pnkstal lilr their glory... 
<:arricr reitt·ra I ted Lambert's fears. The Church must "rt·store nrlturt· to its trut· meaning, as a genuine sign of furman progrcss, dignity, and fnTdom." 
Carricr argrrt·d that the Church's 

corKept of culture has ht'l'n 
modcrnized through the integration 
of anthropological, Marxist, libera­
tion movement considerations of 
man's role in the world. 
And the Church, said Carrier, 
must work to open "dialogut· bt·­

twet·n cultures" to prt·vcnt "the 
pail ofwar (which) comes not only 
from tTonomic or political divcr­
gentTS, but from radical opposition 
ofcultures." 
"\X'hat is requirt·d of our r,cncra­
tion is csst·ntially the ability to inter­
pret cultural changes and the will to 
find tht· new cultural channels to an­
nounce the permanent truths of tht· 
Gospel," he said. 
The conference is the brainchild 

of Notre Dame Prcsident Father 
Theodorc llcsburgh, a member of 
thc Papal Council for Culturt·. 
The conti:rence, which is to in­
dudt· discussion about the relation 
of Gaudium et Spes to Latir. 
America, tht· economy and the I:.s. 
bishop's pastoral on peacc and war, 
will continuc until tomorrow at the 
Center for Continuing Education. 

I I 

L-------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Irish leaders condemn 
• • • Senate 

work out is pcrsonell's insistence 
regarding the insurance policy 
machine-gun massacre 
that all contacts to insurance com­
change. One member stated, "They 
panics be made by them, since they 
say it is their responsibility, Borelli (the Administration) use one 
Associated Press The outlawed IRA said it had no
continued. "Just because it's their frivolous example to justify a change part in the attack, which it con·responsibility is no reason to dis­in policy. This is not a basis for demned as "blatantly sectarian."
charge our contacting outside 
making intelligent decisions on agencies directly," he continued. 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) The mainly Roman Ca~holic IRA is
policies such as this." Borelli also said the personnel 
-politicians, religious leaders and fighting a guerrilla war to win in­office's refusal to allow the Senate i:o 
the IRA on Monday condemned a dependence for Northern Ircland
After meeting with Bull and being contact agcncies was bascd on thc 
machine-gun massacre of wor-from Britain and to unite it with thetold to "back off' on the issue, Bar­shipers at a Protestant church Irish Republic. Northern Ireland is
rcasoning that personnel might not 
rett said that he told the pcrsonell dccm thc company trustworthy, and 
service and cautioned against acts of predominantly Protestant, while the
director, "We can do without the for this reason, " 'The company's 
revenge. A Protestant leader republic is mainly Catholic.
personnel office but we can't do threatened to revive vigilante The Catholic Action Force issued
name: should not bc bandicd about. I without a faculty." 
squads. a statement claiming thc church at­
don't know what this means.'" "I've ncver been as frustratcd as I Barrett continued that he thought 
Police said they suspect that tack as its work. But police, who Northern Ireland's most wanted tcr-never heard ofthe group before. said
have: becn in the last two weeks," the Senate should seek the insurance rorist masterminded the shooting the shooting resemblcd the work of
Borclli admittcd to the Scnate. plan that is "most suitable for the spree Sunday night in which three thc Marxist Irish [lrlational Liberation
dollar expended," and that "we've church elders were killed and seven Army, an IRA offshoot, and oF its
"Our main concern is that the got to be clear, firm and let (the per­present plan was arrived at with the sonnel office) know that we're 
people were wounded. operations chief, Dominic minimal search for a reasonable al­serious about this." 
Some 60 men, women and McGlinchey, the province's most­tt:rnative and with minimal regard 
children had just begun singing the wanted gunman. for the less paid, younger members "Something is going on in this 
hymn, "Are You Washed in the But the Rev. Ian Paisley, a hardlinc of the faculty. This is the point that 
matter that doesn't smell right. 

Blood of the Lamb." Suddenly, two Protestant leader, told fellow mem­the: University must pay attention to We're going to have to keep the 
hooded men burst into the Moun-hers of Parliament he might revive most with a new plan," he continued pressure on. If (Bull) continues to 
tain Lodge Pentecostal Church in his "Third Force" vigilantes, dor­to explain. 
tell us to 'shut up' and 'back off,' then 

Darklcy, deep in an Irish Republican mant for two years. "If there is no we have thc right to say, 'Go to hell.' 
Army stronghold in County Armagh, protection by the security forces, Many Senate members were criti­We'rc not just employees, were an 
Northern Ireland, near the border people arc entitled to ddend them-cal of the University's actions advisory board." 
with the Irish Republic. selves," he said. 


Sooner Or Later 
You'll Get Responsibility LikeThis. 
InThe Navy It's Sooner. 
You're maneuvering 
ment experience that 
445 feet of guided could take years in missile frigate through private industry. And 
the navigational they earn the decision­hazards and non-stop making authority it 
traffic of one of the takes to make that world's busiest ports responsibility pay off. 
But you'll dock As their manage­safely. Because you ment abilities grow, know your equipment. Navy officers can take You know your men. And even when the advantage of advanced education and responsibility weighs in at 3,600 tons ... training in fields as varied as operations you're ready. management, electronics, and systems 
After four years of college, you're analysis. In graduate school it would cost ready for more responsibility than most you thousands; in the Navy we pay you. civilian jobs offer. Navy officers get the And the Navy pays well. The start­kind of job and responsibility they want, ing salary is $17,000 (more than most and they get it sooner. companies pay). And that's on top of a 
Navy officers are part of the manage­comprehensive benefits program that ment team after 16 weeks. Instead of boot can include special duty pay. After four 
camp, officer candidates years, with regular 
r ;:;:::V~~;;U;i'T;-----;;.;:; 1
receive four months promotions and pay in­
I 
INFORMATION CENTER 
I

of leadership training. P.O. Box 5000, Cliftcm, NJ 07015 creases, the salary is up It's professional school­I 0 I'd rather have responsibility sooner. Thll me I to as much as $31,000. 
more about the Navy's officer program. (0G I
ing designed to sharpen H you qualify to
I I
their technical and Nam I be an officer in theFirst (Please Print) Last Address Apt. #____
I

management skills. Navy, chances are you
I City State ZiP--I
Then, in their first have what it takes to
I Age.._tCollege/University
assignment, Navy I succeed. The Navy just
:j:Year in Colle tGP·"-----­
officers get manage-makes it happen faster. 
1 Alv,!ajor/Minor·-------------I 
Phone Number·......,IA.-::re=a-rc;;::od;;::e:;-1----;;-Be=a"tT"'im-et:-o'""c""al.,-1 
I 

This is for general recruitment infonnation. You do not have to fur­nish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we 
I 

L 
know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi· tiona for which you qualify. 
J 

Navy Officers 

Get Responsibility Fast. 
Sports Briefs 
Liberty Bowl tickets for No\re Dame and Saint Mary's students will be available at the second floor ticket windows ofthe ACC according to the following schedule: Seniors-Tuesday, November 29; Juniors -Wednesday, November 30; Sopho­mores/Law/Grads-Thursday, December I; Freshmen -Friday, December 2. The ticket windows will be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (including the noon hour). When you report to the ticket window you will be asked to complete an application with your name, iden­tification number, and class year. The cost ofa ticket for the Decem­ber 29th game in Memphis, Tenn. is 18 dollars. Checks should be made payable to: Notre Dame Liberty Bowl. Present the check and your completed application to the ticket clerk to receive your ticket. A st11dent may present a maximum of two identification cards and applications for tickets. This ticket is intended solely for the personal use of the student. Married students may purchase a ticket for their spouse at the time of issue by presenting proof of marriage. Up­perclassmen may pick up their tickets on or after their designated day, bur the last day ofissue is Friday, December 2.-The Observer 
Men's interhall basketballwill have a meeting 
of team captains today at 4:30p.m. at the ACC Football Auditorium. 
-The Observer 
The SaintMary'S basketballteam defeated Lake 
Michigan College, 64-38, in a scrimmage yesterday afternoon at the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles will open their season tonight against Siena Heights College at 7 p.m. ~t Angela. The Observer 
A discussion ofthe bowl picture will take place tonight on Speaking ofSports on WSND AM-64 at I 0 p.m. Call 
in at 239-6400 or 239-7425 with your questions or comments. The Observer 
Any interhall men's football player who 
didn't return his equipment at the scheduled time should return it today between 6:00-7:30 p.m. Enter gate 9 of the stadium. -The Observer 
The third annual Turkey Trot took place 
yesterday at Saint Mary's. It was a three mile run, jog, or walk on a course around the Saint Mary's campus. The turnout was excellent, with 136 participating in four divisions. Awards were given to the top three winners in each division, as well as turkeys to the first­place winners. The winners of each division were: Liz Robinson 
( 17:59 ), SMC students; Jill Delucia ( 19:17), SMC female faculty; John Akers ( 16:44 ), SMC male faculty; AI Lusk ( 13:35 ), SMC family member. A turkey also was given to Kate Stratigos, a walker chosen at random. Doo-prizes such as jackets, T-shirts, and socks were given out this year, too. Timothy Dillon, Assistant Athletic Director at Saint Mary s, was in charge of the event, which was in celebration of the Thanksgiving Holiday. The Obsen1er 
Tuesday, November 22, 1983 -page 7 
Carroll College Tournament 
Pins spur five wrestlers to finals 
ByJOE BRUNEITI 
Sports Writer 
In every sport there is a "spark" that will ignite a team when it oc­curs. In baseball it is a home run, and in basketball it is a slam dunk at a crucial time. In wrestling, that "spark" is the pin. 
Behind the pin of Greg Fleming, the Notre Dame wrestling team combined to pin five opponents in last weekend's Carroll College Tournament. 
Fleming, the first Notre Dame wrestler to compete in the tourney, started the string of Notre Dame pins with a pin in his opening match. The 118-pound freshman picked up his opponent, worked a pinning combination, and then pinned his opponent in the first period. Fleming, however, was just one of many wrestlers to excel in the tournament. 
Notre Dame had five wrestlers in 
1984 captains named 
Offensive tackle Larry Williams, strong safety Joe Johnson, and defensive end Mike Golic were named captains of the 1984 Notre Dame football team at the team's an­nual post-season banquet held last night in the ACC Arena 
To no one's surprise, tailback Al­len Pinkett was named "Most Valuable Player" for the '83 season. 
Golic was also honored as the team's "Outstanding Defensive Player" and center Mike Kelley received the award for being the team's "Outstanding Offensive Player." 

the finals. Senior Mark Fisher was the only wrestler to place first, but Louis Carnesale, Phil Baty, Don Heintzel­man, and John Krug also did well in reaching the final round. 
Krug, a sophomore, performed the best of all Irish wrestlers. The Dayton, Ohio resident placed second in the 177-pound weight class, with his only loss coming in the finals. 
"John has been working hard," stated Irish coach Bro. Joseph Bruno, C.S.C. "I have seen constant improvement in him in both practice and tournaments, which is very pleasing." 
Krug is considered by Bruno to be 
the strongest wrestler on the team. 
"John has incredible strength," says Bruno, "but he also needs to utilize his technique. He will totally mature as a wrestler when he can utilize the right combination of strength and technique." 
Krug was not the only wrestler to that is something a coach can't teach." 
Although it may appear that everything went well for the Irish, the tournament did present its problems. Heintzelman and John Carnesale both came down with the flu during the tournament. So sick was Carnesale that he was admitted to the infirmary as soon as the tournament ended. 
The Irish also were unable to en­ter a wrestler in the 190-pound class due to injuries to George Logsdon and Matt Stamm. 
With health and injury problems plaguing the team, tomorrow the Irish travel to Michigan to meet Olivet and Siena Heights in Notre Dame's first triangular meet of the 1983-84 season. 
• • • Items 

shine. Glenn Glogas also performed continuedfrompage 12 admirably in his "debut appearance" help from 6-8 forward Mike Giomi. for the Irish. Glogas, a sophomore As always, Indiana will be sound red-shirt, was pulled outofthe Mich-defensively, and that will win at least igan State Tournament a week ago four crucial games for them this 
due to injury, so his first appearance year. came this past weekend. Opening Lineup ...Your gu...ss 
Glogas finished third in the 134-is as good as mine on Friday's start­pound class with an 8-0 drubbing of ing five. There is plenty of depth on his op~onent in hi_s last match of the this year's club, so Phelps can go day. Hts only loss 111 the tournament with several combinations. How came on a questionable referee's about this for Friday night: Tom decision. "He has tremendous Sluby and Tim Kempton at forwards, 
potential," says Bruno, "and the only Ken Barlow at center and Dan Duff problems he has are due to a lack of and Joseph Price at' guards, with experience. These will disappear as plenty of folks on the bench who Glenn gets more competitive wres-will see playing time. No matter who tling experience." Phelps puts in the backcourt, he 
Although only in his first year of must find a consistent shooter from competitive wrestling for Notre the outside, or else the Irish won't Dame, Glogas displays the instincts see sagging zones _ they will see ofa veteran. collapsing zones. Other than that 
"He has great wrestling instincts," flaw, however, the picture looks continues Bruno. "He is always in bright for an exciting season of bas­the right place at the right time, and ketball under the Golden Dome. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor ofHaggar College Center, accepts classifiedsfrom 12:30 
p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next day clas­sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail.
Classifieds 
Charge is 10 cents per seven characters per day. 


NOTICES 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -PLEASE CALL PAUL McGINN AT 277-4851 OR 239­5313. 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TOJJAYI CALL (312)742·1142, EXT. 7316. 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: HAND KNIT SWEATER ON PATH NEAR MUSIC BLDG. ON TUES. DAY, 11/1. CALL277-3443. 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
I lost my HewleH-Packard calculator in lhe Engineenng Compu1er Room o~ Wed· nesday, Nov. 9. It has big 1nl1ials of OS in the right comer. lffound. call David al277­1326. Reward offered. No questions. 
LOST: SET OF KEYS. FRIDAY. NOV.11, SOMEWHERE BETWEEN A GRACE PARTY AND CARROLL HALL ONE OF THE KEYS WAS MARKED WITH 425 N" ON IT IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 284-4230 OR MARC AT 6741. IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT THESE ARE RETURNED. 
LOST. NAVY BLUE LIGHTWEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET TO THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE HAD FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT 8810. 
LOST: To you who received the supriso gift of a checkbook and Casio calculator in your backpack at the North Dining Hall. please return them to Dave Wilson at 229 Pangborn or call 8388. My m1stake... !!!! 
LOST A light blue/light yellow reversible 1acket somet1me before Fall Break. If found. please return to Dave at 229 Pangborn Hall or call 8388. Reward ~ necessary. 
LOST One palf of wMe Nike b-ball shoes (size 12) on Stepan courts on Friday. Call Brian at 8579 or 317 Sorin. Thanks. 
LOST I LOST MY PURPOSE SOME­WHERE AT PENN STATE. IF YOU CAN FIND ME A REPLACEMENT. EVE~ IF IT Ill ONLY A USED ONE CALL ME AT PENN STATE AND ASK FOR CURT 
HELP! LOST A CLADDAUGH PENDANT THIS WEEKEND. REWARD IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL DONNA 6847. 
FOUND: small Quartz watch in Cushing Hall. Correct and precise identification call Karl2776367. 
LOST. NOTRE DAME CREW PUL· LOVER JACKET REWARD if found PLEASE call John Gibbon at 1747 if you 
have any information 
WANTED 
Thanksgiving. Can leave Wednesday. Will share usual. Call John Shreeve at 239-7735. 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -CAN LEAVE ANYTIME -CALL PAUL McGINN AT 239-53130R 277-4851. 
HELP WANTED-BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER. CALL 277-4519 OR 288-3320. 
Riders needed \O PiHsburgh leaving Wed. 22 at 3:30. Call Tom at3540. 
Desperately need ride to Cincinnati for Thanksgiving Break. Will share any ex­penses. Call Mike 8989 
NEED RIDE to MIAMI. FL. tor Xmas break & back.Leave 12/21.AZMAT6764 
RIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK. SYRACUSE OR THE VICINITY AFTER FINALS CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME. 
Need riders to middle Tennessee for Thanksgi•mg break. Please call Sandra at 284-5025. 
NEED iliDE TO(AND FROM) Columbus. Oh1o FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. WILL PAY USUAL. PLEASE CALL John at 1487 
RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO AREA. Can leave 11/23. Call2785. 
FOR SALE 
EXOTIC PETS· snakes, lizards, turtles, tarantulas, amphibians, birds, mam­mals. Largest selection In U.S. Mid­west Reptile, 1520 Mishawaka Ave., 232-2095, 2 mi. from N.D. 
FOR SALE:1974 VW Bug great mechani­cally. some rust. Bright yellow $800/best offer. Call before Bam 277-1454. 
FOR SALE -a three month old Signal· man Mark VII modem. This is a 300 baud direct connect modem with: 
Auto answer capabilities Auto dial capabilities Audible signals, not led's. so you can 
tuck ~ out of sight. 
Normally this modem sells for more than $150, but for this one time offer, I'll take the best offer beHer than $100. 
Call Nick at 283-1426 
WOOD you still like a desk? Still for sale: hard wood desk. 4 1/2 by 2 1/2 feet. Fair condition. Sold to the first person who walks up to The Observer office with a check for $15. Ask for Margaret. This is a first~come, first~serve one~time deal. 
PERSONALS 
BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER CALL 277-4519 OR 288-3320. 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
Los! in engineering computer room. Call David at 277-1326. No questions asked. Reward offered. 
-; ~;:.:j;;~·~~~;;;~;;;i·;;;;~·~·~;;·;;;~·;:;;;;;d~: to 
Grandmother's house we go, in Youngstown, Ohio. We need a sleigh (at least lwo rides) to get there. though. We'll supply hay and oats ($$) generously. Leav1ng Wednesday at noon. Please call Mary or Sarah at 1311. 

Do you want to eat your Thanksgiving turkey in Younstown. Ohio or there­abouts? And have you:l no way to get there? If so. and if you would like a ride. call1311. 
Thanksgiving is for turkeys. 

JUNIORS!! JUNIORS!! LOTTERY FOR ROOMS IN THE MOR­RIS INN FOR FEB.17-19(JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND) WILL BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 30TH AT 7:30 IN THE LAFORTUNE RATHSKELLER. 34 
ROOMS WILL BE LOTTERIED. 

WANT TO TRY SOMETHING NEW? See coupons in the yellow pages of your Campus Telephone Directory! 
0-C Students There will be an 0-C Christmas dinner on Thursday Dec.1. It will be a buffet dinner w~h a speaker. The cost will be $5.00 per person. Tickets will be available 1n the LaFortune beginning Monday after Thansgiiving. 
PUTTY WARTH YOU'RE PATTY IN MY 
HANDS" THAT INSISTENT EUROPEAN 
HUNK STOPPED BY AGAIN, ASKING IF 
I THOUGHT YOU'D BE FREE TO 
SPEND THANKSGIVING BREAK W/ 
HIM ON THE ALPS. MY REPLY. OF 
COURSE, WAS THAT I AM CON Fl· 
DENT THAT THAT WOULD BE 
AGAINST YOUR MORAL STANDARDS 
(PLUS YOU HAVE THAT APPLIED 
HUMAN ANATOMY STUDY PROJECT) 
IT WAS'NT AN EASY THING TO DO. 
BUT I OFFERED TO GO IN YOUR 
PLACE. I EXPECT NO REWARD--I 
KNOW YOU'D HAVE DONE THE SAME 
FOR ME. HAVE A GREAT TURKEY 
DAY! YOUR HUMBLE SERVANT 
(HA!)&ROOMMATE YOUR HUMBLE 
SERVANT AND ROOMMATE 
MARQUETTEI Tonight! 7:30 Women's Basketbalfll 

.. . be there. 
..This one's for Janice ... 
PR1 MED FOR SUCCESS PR1 MED FOR SUCCESS PR1 MED FOR SUCCESS 
Oh, the human~y . 

Dear Jaclyn (a.k.a. MD) Happy 21st Birthday. Oooh. BPE 
MY CONGRADULATIONS GO OUT TO 
A GREAT GUY WHO FINALLY WHO 
FINALLY LOST HIS YOU-KNOW-WHAT 
LAST FRIDAY NIGHT IF YOU ARE AS 
THRILLED AS I AM CALL UP DAVE 
CLAYBAUGH TO CONGRADULATE HIM AT 234-3089. ALSO YOU MIGHT WANT TO SAY HI TO THE LUCKY GIRL, ROSY PALM. WHO IS OF THE ABOVE ADDRESS. 
Hey, folks, he's right ... Tonight is the home opener of the Notre Dame Women's Basketball team. 
And yes, they do play Marquette at 
7:30 in the ACC. Oh, and yes, you are invited. 
Be There! 
MamietPapil 
Bon Anniversairel 
I hope y'a/1 have 25 more years as great 
as the 25 y'a/1 just had. I love you! 
your baby, 
Carola. 

JEFF LINDHOLM, alias Mr. February---I'll keep your picture open tor every month of the year. Guess who? None other than your bestest buddy, C. (and M.P. and Maura and everyone else ). 
212 Castlepoint---1'11 cook and you'll clean. okay? The girl with the hat. 
Lynn~ sorry about my comment about your consistency ... I didn't mean to open you up to ribbing from teammates, but rather was trying to spark interest in the team. Good luck tonight, and I hope you start alongside L'a. 
Nick 

"Nick who?" you ask? Ask Sully . 
Happy B-day Carol H! Gert 
Have a great B-day Karen VonSieck ­Hope you get what you want! Love. Shan­non Dough huh? 
CONGRATS SARAHI Tri-State Reserve Champ From your favorite N.D. brothers 
GOD MADE ND 1, GERRY FAUST TOOK US OUT OF THE TOP 20! 
What kind of dance do pilgrams do on Thanksgiving? 
The Plymouth Rock 
WOOD you still like a desk? For sale: hard wood desk, 4 1/2 by 2 1/2 feet. To those interested who stopped by last week: the first person who shows up at TheOb­server office wi!h a check for $15 is the new owner. 
TOOMS: Have a Happy Turkey Day! Love, your big sister 
QUIZ QUESTION OF THE DAY: Why is MARIA MURPHY wearing another turtleneck? ANSWER: She's celebrating her 19th birthday' HAPPY 8-DAY MARIA! 
TO THE SECTION FIVE STRAGGLERS 
SO LONG, CHIEF! -LLOYD 
CHIP CHIP CHIP CHIP GAINAGE CHIP CHIP CHIP 
DEAR KEY--HAVE A HAPPY THANKSGIVING! SORRY I CANT BE HERE WITH YOU. GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR WORK. I'LL BE THINKING OF YOU. SEE YOU SUNDAY NIGHT! LOVE, 
J. 
HAPPINESS is a pile of dry leaves! (and a dog) 
Today·s Special: Open faced tuna me~s at the Y -CAFE 
TO KAREN P. HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY. 'SWEETS'!!!!!!!! Now that you're old enough to get in trouble for all the things you've been doing all along-BE CAREFUL-but still have fun. You will al· ways be the Queen of FONDA and SLAM SHOTS. And, of course, the best HOSTESS in all of South Bend. Lyons wouldn't be the same w~hout you. Take care. None other than, the "3 non~ alcoholic, celibate" women in 118!!!!! 
THREE YEARS OF LOUSY FOOTBALL. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH!! 
NEVE HAD ENOUGH! WE'VE HAD eNOUGH! WE'VE HAD ENOUGH! 
And she said we must get together, But I knew it'd never be ananged. 
-Harry Chapin 


r 

continued from page 12 

hurts DiStanislao's team may affect later decisions about tht.· men's program. 
"The last hal(of the season will be a conference schedule," DiStanislao explains. "It will be a whole dif­ferent concept for Notre Dame ba..~ketball. One game won't gt.·t you into history as jt would if you were aq..in­dependent. In order to be a conference winner, you have to be consistent game after game after game." 
"This conference could be to the women's game what the Big Ea..~t is to the men's game. In the Big Ea..~t. they took independents with good reputations and, to­gether, they have become; or.e of the best conferer.ces in the country,'' 
"The North Star Conference is the same: way," she continues. "With the exception of Notre Dame, the schools don't have football teams. So womcri's ba~ket­hall is the second greatt.·st priority." 
The big difference between the Big East and the North Star is that thert.· are, at this time, no well-known teams in the conference. Notre Dame is the d<isest to reaching this goal, so its play will be important in giving the conference a national name. 
I "At this point, we're the most visible program," says 
I DiStanislao. "But I'm not <L~ worried about bearing·the 
I I. brunt ofwinning games as I am about building a consis­tt.·nt style of play." · 
"We're looking to gain aedibility for the conference . by picking up wins outside the conference. Not just us, hut tt.:ams like DePaul that play a good non-conference scht:dulc. Wc'n: also looking to establish a little pecking order within the conference." 
• 

DiStanislao docs have good reason to be talkingabout the NCAA Tournament and a high national ranking. She has a talented team that, despite being young -there arl· only two seniors ....rha~ a good deal ofexperience about what it takes to compete with the big names. For the pa~t two years, Notre Dame has played a good num­ht.·r oftht.·se teams. h<Hh at home and away. Thus, nearly every player on the team ha~ had playing time against them. 
Ifthe Irish ever do reach the level ofthe better teams this year, it will he DiStanislao's junior cla..~s that will lead them. The four juniors have been among the leading scorers. rehounders, and defenders for Notre Dame ever since they arrived on campus, and things 
Notre Dame will be alilc:.to get some real com­
petition before the Notre Dame Thanksgiving Clas­
sic ( st.·c page 9) when it takes on a familiar rival, 
Marquette, tonight at 7:30 in the ACC Arena. 

The Warriors. whom the Irish defeated, 74-50, la~t year in Milwaukee, return nine of their 11 lct­tt.·r winners. However, one of those two letter win­ners who ha~ graduated, Julie Sievers, was Marquette's best playt:r. Sievers wa..~ the all-time leading scbrer. and rehounder fo; Tat Shiely's squad. 
Forwan_l Pam Suplicki ( 9. 7 ppg, 10.0 rpg), cen­ter Marianne Burish (9.9 ppg, 6.2 rpg), and guard lkcky Kinzer ( I 0.3 ppg, 4~3 rpg) will try to help improve Marquette's dismal 6-18 record of a year ago. . 
"They graduated.. their lnost versatile player, Julie Sievers, but Marquette alw'ays comes·to play," says Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. 
.~hould not change much this year. 

Centt·r Mary Beth Schucth is the head of the da~s. The 6-0 co-captain from Indianapolis, Ind.; has led the Irishin scorin_g and rebounding for the past two years.• Last year,.St:hucth averaged 11.7 points and 8.9 rebounds per game. She also Jed the team in playing time. On top ofthis, DiStanislao ex"pects her to_get even better this year. 
"Mary Beth ha~ worked on her strength and assertive· 
ness on defense," says DiStanislao. "Offelll;ively, she 
added some moves to her repertoire, her shooting · 
range has improved, and she is a better passer this year." 
How much Schueth improves will play amajor role in 
the team's improvement. It is ht""l" responsibility to 
cover the opponents' big players although she usiJally 
h;is a height disadvantage. Players like alt-American 
Janice Lawrence of Louisiana.Tech ani:! Necie · 

Thompson.ofUC~ must be stopped ifthe Irish are going to have any chance. 
Other than Schueth, nobody has a starting position locked up. Not that being a starter means much -DiS­tanislao's system involves a good deal ofsubstitutions -hut usually starters do get a hit more playing time. 
Because they have not had time to see how the players are reacting to real game situations, DiStanislao and her assistants, Mary Murphy andJiliJeffrey, do not know what combinations wiU work best, but it appears that the upperclassmen have the edge because oftheir experience. 
"As a coach, you always want to give the upperclas­smen the benefit of the doubt," said DiStanislao. "The experience should be enhancing their game. You don't want them in a position to be seriously threatened by freshmen." 
''I'd like to think that our freshmen will play an impor­tant role because the sign ofa good program is one that's been consistently developed. But, right now, we have juniors and so I want to call upon my juniors." 
Those juniors that DiStanislao will call on probably will fill three ofthe five starting positions and the top 
• • • OutloOk 
backup spot. They are Schueth, forwards Ruth Kaiser 
and Carrie Bates, and guard Laura Dougherty. 

Kaiser will join Schueth in the front row. The 5-10 
Tempe, Ariz., resident averaged 7.1 points and 4.0 
rebounds a game last year and will be looked upon to 
provide some strongdefense. She is an excellent passer 
and has led the team in steals in each of her first two 
years. 

After coming on strong at the end oflast year, Bates 
seems to be in a position to play forward orcenter. The 
6-1 native of Kansas City, Mo., averaged 13.7 points per 
game over the last six games ( 8.0 for the year) and 
played a major role in Notre Dame's late-season 
success. 

"Carrie has had great displays of.talent bm has also 
displayed how she's been intimidated," says DiStanis­
lao. "Ifshe uses her strength and size, with her shooting 
touch, she'could be outstanding." 

A 5-l0 guard from Hillsdale, N.J, Dougherty was the person that got the ball late in the game when the outcome was on the line. Twice last year, Dougherty hit crucial shots in the final seconds. Against Illinois State,. she won the game with -a 15-foot jumper with less thai1 10 seconds left. Against Dayton, she hit a 25--foot desperation shot to send the game into overtime. The Irish eventually won the game. 
Besides her heroics, Dougherty averaged 10.9 points 
a game and set a Notre Dame single-season assists 
record with 102. 

"You want a player who wants the ball in her hands," 
DiStanislao explains. "Last year, Laura reluctantly took 
that role because she didn't have any compc:tition. We 
want a whole team ofpeople to do that" 

The final two spots will be filled by sophomores or 
freshmen. The final forward spot, assuming Bates fills 
the position as the super-sub, will fall to sophomore 
Trena t Keys who is beginning to live up to her reputa­
tion as Mary Di's most talented recruit. Last year, Keys, a 
6-1 player from Marion, Ind., who won the "Miss Basket-· 
ball" award in Indiana two years ago, showed flashes of 
brilliance. She finished third on the team in scoringwith 
10.5 points a game despite averaging only 20 minutes a game. 
"We want to look to Trena as a scorer," savs DiStanis­
Jao. "She's got three years ahead ofher and."rhis year 
you'll see some improvement. She's contributing more 
and more to our success. But, as with the other players, 
she has a wealth oftalent and what she does with it is up 
to her." 

Keys wi!l have to fight offa challenge by freshmen 
Lavetta Willis and Mickey Skieresz who have fared well 
so far (see related story), and seniorJenny Klauke who ·:... 
averaged better than three points per game last year 
while seeing limited acti<in because ofan injury. 
The biggest question mark ofall is the point-guarp 
position where freshman Vonnie Thompson and sopho­
more Denise ~a..~ford are fighting it out Basford has the 
advantage ofa year ofexperience, but she does not 
..p~id!-' the Scoring threat ( 2.6 ppg) that DiStanislao is ~looking for. She has improved a good deal over the sum-
Freshmen look to letld.hand 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
When Mary DiStanislao took over the coaching job at Notre Dame four years ago, she had to lead the Irish in their jump from Division lll to Division I with a lot of Division lll talent. She started'recruiting a team for the future as soon as she arrived, and has not stopped since. 
She picked up five talented recruits 
before her second year, and, although_ 
one left school after her freshman year, 
the remaining fourpe playing a major 
role in the team's success.-· 
Last ye·ar, she p~ked up four more very talented players, and, although one left . school during her freshman year, the· remaining three are playing a major role in the team's success. 
This year will be the third year that DiStanislao has picked up recruits who will be helping the Irish well into the future. There are only three this year, but each ofthem is pushlbg the older players to play better or else lose their job. The three are Vonnie Thompson, Mickey Skieresz and Lavetta Willis. 
"The sign ofa good program is one 
that's been consistently developed," says 
DiStanislao. "I'd like to think 9ur fresh­
men will play an important role. 
"This year's group gives us competi­
tion for our older players, more 
flexibility and more depth. In Vonnie's 
case, it is the first time we can have 
someone come up the court and score." 
Thompson, a 5-7 point guard from 
Saginaw, Mich., will be the one to watch 
most closely since she has a chance to 
start very early in the year. The point guard job is open because of the gradua­tion of Debbi Hensley, who started all 27 games las(year. Thompson and sopho­more Denise Basford will be competing tor the spot. 

Despite her inexperience on rpe col­lege level, Thompson figures to have a good chance at the position because of her offensive abilities. Hensley did not provide too much offensive suprort for her teammates, so opponents could drop offher and sag into the middle. lftht~ point guard shows that she is willing to shoot, it will keep the defense honest. .Thompson fits this ;ob description. 
"When Vonnie's open, she will shoot," 
DiStanislao says. "On her team last year, 
she was the primary scorer on a teain 
which wanted the ball in her hands. We 
want her to pass, but also to popfrom the 
top ofthe key to stop the sagging 
defense." · 
Ifher 14.0 scoring average for state champion Carrollton High is any indica­tion, Thompson should be able ~o get some def<!nsive attention. How~ver, before she can contribute a great deal, she will have to go through a period of Jea'"lling. 
"Vonnie still has some things to Jearn," 
explains DiStanislao. "She came from a 
team that played mostly a zone and 
played against mostly zones. So she still 
has to adjust to man-to-man defense. She 
does have very good instincts in the back­
court, however." 
Skieresz, a 6-0 forw"i't(ffrorh Westlake 
Village, Calif, and Willis, a 5-11 fm'ward 
from Wayne, Mich., bring different styles 
ofplay to the front line. 
"The quality in the depth at forward 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Tuesday, November 22, 1983 -page 8 

Laura Dougherty 
Irish guard 
mer, howcver. 
Thompson is gr<Jwing into the college game and probably will lay a claim to the position before the season is over. She is not afraid to shoot and ha~ good instincts in the backcourt. 
Sophomore Lynn Ebben also figures at one ofthe guard spots, probably as a backupto Dougherty. Ebben i!lternated between for­ward and guard last year, but has settled at the shooting guard spot because of her excellent shooting range. She averaged 7.7 points a game las.t year, and ha~ the ability to have a big scoring night. 
Providing depth in the backcourt will be seniorco-captain There­sa Mullins, who averaged 1.0 points a game last year,.-and veteran sophomore walk-on Lisa B_rown ( 1.4 ppg Ja~t year), and newcomers Dava Newman and Mary Borkowski. .. . "We can have a great year ifwe play with consistency and intcn­
-sity," says OiStanislao. "On paper, we don't have the individuals to match up with the McGees at USC or Tanya Haave at Tennessee, hut that's not to say that, as a team, Notre Dame can't outplay these people. Every team is as good a~ it wants to be." Notre Dame will not have to wait long before it finds out how good it can be. Tennessee, Maryland, and Southern Cal will be in South Bend in a couple ofdays. 
will depend on how far Lavetta and Mick­
ey come alm'lg," says DiStanislao. "Right now, they are giving the older players some competition." 
Skieresz relies on her strength to beef­fective. She i1Veraged J,7 points and I 0 rebounds a game for Westlake High School when DiStanislao re~ruited her a~ a Carrie Bates-type player. 
"I don't know ifthere's a freshman in 
the country who posts up as strong a~ 
Mickey does," DiStanislao says. "She 
provides 5ome strong competition for : 
Carrie and both·players have benefited 
from it." • • 
"She still h.as a lot to Jearn on both ends 
ofthe floor. Right now, her strengthis her 
strong point. She's been doing a good job, 
though." 
Willis,.who averaged 18 points'and 10 rebounds a game for Ladywood High, provides a good match with Skieresz he: cause she relies on her quickness more tM.n her strength. She will be looked to as a rebounder because of her ability to get to loose balls. • 
"Lavetta is a very raw talt:nt," explains 
DiStanislao. "She is very hard-working 
and very intense as far as learning things. 
She's not your classic player, but, around 
the boards, she re'ally has a nose for the 
ball. She'll get the ball or a piece ofthe 
ball every time. .Until Lavetta got here, a 
lot ofpeople stood around waiting for 
rebounds." 
Nobody can accuse DiStanislao of 
standing around, waiting for recruits. She 
already ha~ four top-line recruits lined up 
for next year, but the last three groups 
alone may get Notre Dame that national 
ranking it wants and needs so badly. 


WOMEN'S BASKE-TBALL ·Tuesday, November 22, 1983 -page 9 
The-Notre Dame Classic 
The Irish host the best women's teams 
By MIKE SULLIVAN perienc~ and depth, and they have a lot ofathletes. The Sport< Editor experience is deeper than four years ofcollege, too. It's ·~ international. Eight players have played some for!TI ofin-
Staying il) South Bend during a brea\5 is usually not too . ternational or traveling-team competition." 
fun. Nobody is around and nothing is happening. But, for those lucky souls who are stuc~in Sou!._h Bend for this Thanksgiving, there is finally going to be somethingtQ do. You'll get to sec some ofthe finest basketball competition ofits kind in the nation. 
The event is a toorname~t"called the Notre Dame Thanksgiving Cfassic and it willpe played on Friday after­noon and Saturday night in the ACC Main Arena. South­ero Cal, Te:lfiessee, Maryland, and"Notre Dame comprise 
·the field. But, if you're expecting to see Digger Phelps and his men competing, you're wrong. The l'!otre Dame Thanksgiving Classic is a women's basketball toUI;na­ment. 
That's right. Mary DiStailislao and he"r Notre Dame women's basketball team will b·c hosting three ofthe best women's basketball teams in the country, including the defending national champions, USC. 
"There isfl't a better tournament in·the country." says DiStanislao. "Even after one year, it has the reputation ofbeing the best preseason tournament in the conntry. Everybody wants to get into it, so we can get the best teams out of every part of the country." . 
But, while every team wants to•get into the tourna­ment, sponsors do not and the tourney would not even e:lfist if it was not for Athletic Director Gene Corrigan and the Notre Da!lle athletic department. That is bccaus~ the 
.,original sponsor, the Orange Crush company, suddenly took away-i-ts sponsorship, leaving the tourney up in the air"until Corrig~entered the picture. · "I waS really disappointed because this was a fine · tournament," recalls OiSt;nislao. !'Sp I presented the situation to Mr. Corrigan and asked if our department "Couldn't seek t>ome sponsorship. All the responses were negative, though. For-tunately, Mr. Corrigan is an OP,en· minded man." · 
Because it could not find a spansor, Notre Dame decioded to sponsor the Notre Dame Classic itself Now; the people around Notre Dame can see the best in : women's basketb~ll. 
Here's a rundown ofthe competition: 
•TENNESSEE -United States Olympic Coach Pat Summitt leads an experienced Lady Volunteer team that once ag;Un finished in the top·ten last year. All-America" ~nior forwards Tanya Haave and Nlary Ostrowski lead Tennessee, but •hree otht:r sehiors play a maj~r rofe for the team. 
"This is probably th/:: b~st team they've hadsince 1989 (when UT finished second in the nation)," says I1iStanis­lao. "In fact, it may be a better team. They have ex-

Cheryl Miller Player of the Year 

"Haave is a very good shooterfromall over, and she has the license to shoot. Ostrowski is an excellent one-on­one player with her back to the basket. She has an excel­lent hook shot. She's strong and smart, and I'm SJlre that she'll take a few people to school." 
The reason DiStanfslao is so concerned about Tennes­see is that the Lady Vols·will-be Notre Dame's opponent in the first round. She realizes that the Irish are going to have to play very well t.o keep up with the powerful Vols. · 
''In order to beat them, we are going to have to play ex· cellerit, excellent basketball," says DiStanislao. "We don't have the luxury of making a lot of mistakes and getting away with it." 
•SOUTHERN CAL -Linda Sharp's Trojans are the defending national champions and are ranked first in this preseason by The (!ssociated Press. They are led by the finest women's basketball player in the country in sopho­Alore se~nsation Cheryl Miller. Miller averaged almost 20 points and I 0 rebounds a game last year. She has a lot of help, though, in seniors Pam and Paula McGee, a set of twins from Flint, Mich. The McGees hold nearly all ofthe Trojan scqring and rebounding records -at least until Miller breaks them all. · · 
· "USC is loaded," says DiStanislao. "TllCir talent is great and_!he determination and intensity oT the McGee twins plays a big role." 

"In order to beat them, we'd haveto play our brains out and make fewer mistake:;. Any team can self-destruct. If you find the right combination, any warp canbeat any other team." -­
•MARYLAND -The Terps may b~ the most cons~s­tent team in the history ofwomen's basketball. They have appeared in every Top Twenty poll since th'e poll began. For the past six years, they have been ranked among the top ten. · 
However, Coach Chris Weller has the only team in the tourney that was hurt by graduation. Two ofthe leading scorers,-jasmina Perazic and Debbie Lytle, have­graduated and another key player, Lea.Hakal.a, has returned to Finland to prepare for the Olympics. Guard Marcia Richardson and center Belinda Pearman should pick up st>me ofthe slack, however.. 
"Maryland is the biggest mystery ofthe tournament," says DiStanJ.slao. 
. . .. 

. · . •P~rhaps the oiggest mystery ofthe tournament, !}ow ever, il! how the Irish will match up with these powerhouses. Ifyou're around over break, it might be interesting to find out that at\sw-er for yourself 
r---------------------------------------------------. 
·. 

Tourriament Facts 
... 

F~IDAY, NOVEMBEF\25 
1 p.m. -Ten·nessee vs.. Notre Dame 3:3Q p.m~ Maryland vs, Southern Cal 
SATURDAY,NOVEMBER26 
5:30p.m .. -Consolatiof!. Game 8 p.m. Championship Game 

. . 

Tennessee L(!dy Volunteers Goach -Pat Summh 222-66 {9 years). 
. 1 letterman lost ·· 10 lettermen returning 25-81ast year 


Maryland Terrapins Coach -Chris Weller 1"71-51 (8 years) 4 lettermen lost 10 lettermen returning 26-5 last year 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish CQach -Mary DiStanislao 136-61 (8 years) . 2 lettermen lost 91ettermen returning 20-71ast year 
Tlt}:R
0,l_A. N S 
, 
. . 
·­
USC Trojans Coach -Linda Sharp 134-49 (6 years) ·2 lettermen lost 11 lettermen returning 31-21ast year National Champions 


The Observer 

Women's interhall football 
P.E. beats B.P. for championship 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports \f'rlter 
Carla Cortes' six-yard touchdown run with just over two minutes left in the first half was the difference as the Pasquerilla East Packers downed llrcen-Phillips, 8-0, last Sunday on Cartier field to win their first ever women's interhall football cham­pionship. 
The two teams traded possession of the ball four times to open the game before P.E. started what would turn out to be the winning drive. 
After dropping B.P. for a three­yard loss on a fourth-and-one situa­tion, I'. E. took the ball over on their own 48-yard line. A I 0-yard run and first down by Cortes opened the drive. following two more first downs, P.E. had the ball on the B.P. 20-yard line. 

I Two plays resulting in a combined
I 
no gain brought up an aU-important

I I third down for P.E. On the next play,I 
quarterback Jenny Yuh! rolled right

I 
and fired a I 5-yard strike to give P.E. 
• • . Dillon 
continuedfrom page 12 
the pass without breaking stride and waltzed into the end zone. Thompson's point-after made the score 1-1-0. 
Cotter was still unable to generate any offense as his third pass was picked off, again by Wicke. However, the Stanford supporters got a chance to make some noise as Dillon met with disaster on thl'ir first punt attempt of the game. The snap was low and Stanford's Andy Reardon picked up the bobbled ball and returned it for a touchdown. 
Marget and Wicke led tht· way a~ Dillon drove for its final score. Mar­get hit Wicke three times, the last for a touchdown. The scoring pa~s came on a fourth down play, as Marget threw a perfect pao;s, finding Wicke in the corner of the end zone over two defenders. 

6VAR. Fi.DUR•DRYBE-ANSitEASeNUTs ; •. ,...\IV-.-·:I':L··~~,.)l:R---.-N~-1:,~§5~ .R·,u-,~N.~ ~ 
r ~ ' ' . a-' J. . -. -., I , [ J' 
·~ .... J...,; . ..., . ' 
::s:: I0: Food S.Cmps 10·RI(-\t1;R-~1 llul~ S~l~s & m 
) lJ.. Acc•pt•d \\jJ • ' • . ..; ---~1 Scv1n9' Cl) 
1o m
SINGLEs 
, Y::l 

MEMBERSHIP POLICY. 10'\ Disccunl :::::::::_FAMILIES • I 0: -GROUPS < 
1 

Q 10AM 6PM Mon Sat. ;::tI ~ Sunday Noon trll SPM ,.,. . 'P ~ 
: ~ 6Jh~ 288-3235 iYB~~~~z 
~~ 632 Portage Av 46616 I oj "'~j !I sr>~ci~~~;~fc~ ~6;;Q[jjce. cOFFEs 
·--~-_,_ --------·--~-------·--------/1 
CAMPUS CLEANERS 
*Drop off laundry *Professional Dry Cleaning *Alterations *Shoe Repair *Suede and leather cleaning 
-REASONABLE RATES­
441 E. Howard(off Notre Dame Ave.) 233-5227 
..... 

~___,~---'2 
M-F 9 to 5, except Thurs. 9 to 4 
a first down on the five. 
Aiter a one-yard loss, Cortes skirted up the middle through a throng of defenders to score the decisive touchdown. 
Trying for the two point conver­sion, Yuh! scored on a bootleg to the right. 
B.P. 
had one more set of downs before the end of the half but came up unsuccessful, leaving the score at 8-0. 

B.P. 
began the second half with the ball at their own 16. On the second play, B.P. got a first down on a 20-yard scamper. The third play of the next set ofdowns saw B.P. move the ball up to their own 48, and it looked as if a tying drive was in the making. 


But P.E.'s Trish Hobert put an end to the drive with an interception at her own 48. 
P.E. was stopped on fourth down right away and B.P. had the ball once again, this time at their 47-yard line. 
Runs of 13 and 15 yards spurred a new B.P. drive all the way down to the P.E. 12-yard line . 
Atwo-yard loss and an incomplete pass made it third-and-twelve for 
B.P. on the 14. The P.E. defense, led by Nancy Fitzpatrick for much ofthe day, broke through on third down to throw the B.P. ball carrier for a seven-yard loss. 
On fourth-and-nineteen, B.P. 
decided that they had to go for the 
first down as the second half was 
winding down quickly. B.P. tried a 
screen pass to the left, which, after 
some fine running, appeared to have 
gotten them down to around the 
two and near a first down. 
That apparent first down, 
however, was squelched by a B.P. 
penalty, sending them back even fur­
ther. 

They were never able to recover from the penalty and could not mount another serious threat the rest of the day. P.E. killed the clock, and had a champagne celebration at the 50-yard line immediately follow­ing the gam~_,_ _ 
B. I'. coach Mike Brennan was full ofdisappointment after the game. 
"We got some bad breaks," said 
Brennan. "But I don't feel that we 
were outplayed. Let's put it this way. 
We weren't beaten. We lost." 

On the other side of the field, P.E.'s four coaches,jim Roeder, Mike Lane, Ed Lennen, and Jerry Judd, were much happier with the game's result. 
"This is our first championship af­ter three year~ in the finals so we are really psyched," said Roeder. "This time we thought that we had the best team so we were really ready." 
It's ironic that P.E. lost their firs, game of the season to B.P.. only to rebound to win their next eight and the championship. After beating B.P. on Sunday, they had beaten every other team in the league and aptly deserved the title of"champions." 
FRANCISCANS 
7/wd (}~zd&t !<~ 
DIRECTOR OF VOCATIONS, FRANCISCANS, TOR 2006 EDGEWATER PARKWAY SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND 20903 
Please send me the free booklet at no obligatio'l. 
___________________________ NO 

Name age Address 
City State______ Zipr______ (Check preference) Priesthood Brotherhood 
~-·-··-----··--··--··--··--··-,-··-·--·-,............~····-··· 
RESIDENT PHYSICIANS 
. 
In 

Orthopaedic Surgery Otolaryngology General Surgery Anesthesiology OB/GYN Urology 
$28,000 
MINIMUM ANNUAL SAlARY 
Paid by the U.S. Navy in your final year or two years of civilian -resident training 
Excellent benefits include: 
• 
Malpractice insurance absorbed 

• 
Health care benefits (for family, too!) 

• 
30 days of vacation earned each year 


Your only obligation is to complete residency training then serve a minimum of two additional years on adive duty as an officer in the · 
U.S. Navy 

Contact: ll~utonant Groq Thompson Phone: ___2!.!-6339 loc11 or Toll Fr~• 1-800-382-9782 
*Navy rep on campus 30 ~ov. &1 Dec . 
"""'. 
···-··-----··--··--··-,···--··-·-··-,···-····-····-····-····-··· 
Tuesday, November 22, 1983 -page 10 
What's happening over Thanksgiving 
SMC BASKETBALL Today vs. Siena Heights Angela Athletic Fac. ?p.m. 
VOLLEYBALL at Thanksgiving fest. (Baton Rouge, La.) Nov. 25-27 
HOCKEY at Mich.-Dearborn Nov. 25,26 
young men 16-35

SYMBOL ... "OF THE MAN WHO RECEIVES IN GIVING" 
MEN'S BASKETBALL  
Nov. 25 vs. St. Joseph's ACC 8:00p.m.  
Nov. 26 vs. Marist ACC 1:30 p.m.  1 I  


~4[Jt~C3L~--------------------------------------T-ue_~_-_a_y,_N_o_v_e_m_be__·r_z_z_,_l9_8_3---p~ag--e.l...l 


Bloom C_ounty
.,._..;...._____.... 


OF COOR~ YrYJ 71/E 5HQNIN6 Of WAS FI\Kf Of A ~PWf... PAU!. NWKAA~ WA5, NO C.W9T, A MAJOR 

HOW 151HIS COCMRY 
5'ro5f~ 10 COtJV!JCT 

ArecaJT ARMS MAYBE. rr'5 
fl.K1, If EVUY-TIME. fOR A
ONt. IS Ff-W 1Y51ERICS. 
MY MOM I.P'Iff f1" WHE?I r 15l1Nf:,. HoME 1'1Y 
L/tUNI)t.Y, IT (jiVEJ HEK 

A BLOW IIIlTH IIHH 1 811T 
MY II16HUTIC·k, WllffiE,OCS~N! SIIH 
I . 
ACROSS 33 "-song , Forehead go out ... 5 Practice 34 Kind of rig boxing 35 Aleutian 9 Health island resorts 36 Revolting 13 Volcano people 
output 39 Federal 14 Winged officers 15 Elegant 40 Former 16 Nonpareil Hungarian 17 Trade group politician 1B Margarine 41 Patron 19 Country saint of 
scene lepers 22-Plaines 42 Always, 23 Table poetically scrap 43 Advantage· 24 Stands 44 Trifling 
up to 45 Texas 28 Tiny tot school 30 Tray filler letters 
Monday's Solution 

11/22183 

·Berke Breathed 

11Mt: FOR Af€WOf
ii~R. 

11105€.' 100. 
I 
Photius 
You KNOW YOU'te AN /NfENStnVE IDIOf: 
/)()A/ 'T VOl( -~..........L~ 
Campus · 
•1 
· 6 p.m. -Immunizations for students, for measles, rubella, mumps and tetanus, Student Health Center, Free 

•2 
p.m. Papal Council Meeting, "Evangelization of Culture in Latin America," Juan Carlos Scannone, CCE 

•4:30 
p:m. -Biology Seminar, ''Lice, Midges, Pattern Recognition and the Environmental Data Catastrophe Revisited," Pro[ Ronald A. HJ:llenthal, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Basketball, SMC"vs. Siena Heights Col­lege, Angela Athletic Facility 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -FUm, "Tommy," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, Sl 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Women vs. Mar­quette, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Speech, "Central America: Why Not 


· Peace?" Archbishop Marcos McGrath, Memorial Lib~ary Auditorium 
·yv Tonight 
7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune • 34 Straight Talk 
8p.m. 16 ATeam 22 The MiSsissippi 28 Just Our Luck 34 NOVA 
9:00p.m. 16 Kennedy Part III ofIII 22 Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 34 Vietnam: A Televisi<m History 
9:30p.m..  28  Oh Madeline  
10p.m.  16  Bay City Blues  
28  Hart to Hart  
34  The  Four  Corners:  A  Nationp.l  
Sacrifice Area?  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Big Red Football  
11:30 p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Trapperjohn/McCloud  
• 28  Thicke ofthe Night  

Far Side . · 

student union takes you to . .. 
Ft. Lauderdale 
·including 
• 
7 nights Sheraton Yankee Trader 

•
Round trip motor coach 


$289 
ooO 

FL Y/NG HOME FOR T/=/:~:::••••-•ool 
cJ[t!~f3.€. leaves Wednesd~~~90 Sign up at S.U. Ticket Office/Record Store by Tuesday 4:00PM *Also South Shore Shuttle from station to campus on Sunday night 

Fate 

'CA/.IS( f'ION[ OF MY 
STZIFF'> 8W W.IJSI/ED 
SINCE OCTDIJCf( 1f1.'EIIJ(. 
46 Calendar 
abbr.. 47 Yellow . press waes 56 Together, 
musically 57 Future • oak 58 Neighbor· 
hood 59 Chow­SO Item 61 Arise 62 Breathe 
heavily 63 Spitchcocks .64 Soccer VIP 
DOWN· 1 Boast 2 Rajah's 
wife 3 Hot spot 4 Political 
district 5 Punches 6 Bill stamp 
word 7 Hun king 8 Bird of 
song 9 Mutation 10 Water 
. sport 11 Lost 12 Liketame 
horses 14 A DeMille 20 Perfect 21 Attempt 

24 Threnody 25 Selected, as figs 26 "Saturday 
Night-" 27 Lay -(be severe) 28 Light color 29 Chinese 
port 30 Lopsided 31 Ranch 
animal 32 Bold woman 34 Party for 
males 35 Seed covering 37 Movein 
waves 38 Oncemore 43 Flightless· 
bird 44 Fork part 45 Fragrance 46 Fieldsof 
granular 
snow 47 Bivouac 48 Creative 
thought 49 Undo 50 Pain 51 Work hard 52 Stinger 53 Comic 
Johnson 54 Rod's pal 55 Ditto 

OLSEN, SITUIITION: A PtAyn's 6MIID/OIOTI/tll " ATTliVTIN'" TO folilt ONTO TH~ ~OIIItT To COIIIGifi!T­ULUf Hill 6RAIIDIOIII FOR SCOIUNG" 
TH'  GAMt·.,I•NIIW> Bll,.tT. ., HOW  
DO  you  UANOLf.  HER?  
'  

START THINKING ABOUT SPRING BREAK!!! 

The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved . 

The women try to put N D back on the map 
Mary DiStanislao and her basketball team resume journey toward top of the game 

It's anybody's xuess as to who the starting Jive 
question. For more on the basketball team and will be this Friday when the Notre Dame basket­their upcoming games, see Chuck Freeby's Irish bull team goes up againstSt.joseph's (Ind.). Here, Items at right. Digger Phelps appears to be trying to decide that 
23rd straight win 

Dillon tops Stanford for third title 
By TOM ANTONINI 
Sports Writer 
Dillon llall put the finishing touches on a remarkable season with a 2 I -6 win over Stanford in the men's interhall football champion­ship last Sunday. The victory gave Dillon its 23rd straight win and a record third championship in a row. 
The Big Red overcame a riled-up Stanford team as wdl as horrendous playing conditions in gaining the title. The Stanford Studs warmed up before the game in their traditional maroon uniforms hut emerged through a tunnel of Stanford fans wearing brand new white jerseys. 

The early going, however, was all in favot of the Big Red of Dillon. Stanford opened the game on of­fense but failed to gain a first down and was forced to punt. The snap sailed over the head ofStanford pun­ter Mike Lark and was downed on the seven-yard line. 
Dillon took just two plays to score their first touchdown of the day as Dave McMahon powered through the middle of the Stanford defense for the score. Dan Thompson con­verted the extra point to give Dillon a 7-0 lead. 
On Stanford's next posession, quarterback Ken Cotter tried to throw into a stiff wind and was inter­cepted by Dillon's Bob Wicke. 
With the wind at his back, quarter­back George Marget threw a beautiful pass to a streaking Steve Nasce on Dillon's first play after Wicke's interception. Nasce caught 
see DILLON, page 10 
Tuesday, November 22, 1983-page 12 

It's time for Notre arne basketball again 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 

Hello again, everybody! 
It's hoops time!Air Force has closed the curtain on the 19H3 regular season in football, and now it's time for Digger Phelps and Co. to raise the curtain on the 198.3-H4 basketball campaign. The Irish start their hid for an NCAA tournament berth Friday night when they play host to St. Joseph's (Ind.}, and come hack th<: next day to take on Marist. Then, Notre Dame takes their show on the road for their first major test ofthe year on Tuesday night when they visit the Indiana lloosiers. 

From all early indications, it looks like the Irish could have an excitingseason in the year One A.P. (After Paxson), as Digger has put together his quickest team in years. However, whether the Irish can have a ~uccessful year is something you and I will just have to wait 
and see about. 
Puma Tracks ...St. Joseph's of Rensselear has two things going for it -the Pumas are slow and short. Othn than that. Coach George Waggoner's cagers don't have much to talk about. Sopho­mort:: swing man Mark Wingard poured in I 7 points in St. Joe's vic­t;,ry over Manchester Saturday night to lead the starters. Eight lettermen return from last year's squad -hut that might he had news. After all, how good could they be if they finished 9-19 against foes such as Valparaiso and Purdue-Calumet. 
Trailing the Red Foxes ...Less than 24 hours after playing St. Joseph's (hardly enough time to recover from the excitement), the Irish ~ill have to be ready for Marist College. Coach Ron Petro's Red Foxes rely on guards Tom Meekins ( I 1.0 ppg last year) and Bruce Johnson (9.5 ppg in '82-'83) to lead the offensive attack, while cen­ter Ted Taylor and 7-1 John Donovan work the boards. 
Hoosier Hoopla ...Don't let the fact that the Hoosiers lost 56 points a game in scoring (when Randy Wittman and Ted Kitchel graduated) from last year's 24-6 dub fool you -Indiana has plenty ofyoung talent. 1984 U.S. Olympic coach Boh Knight will rely on 7-2 center Uwe Blab to provide much of the offensive firepower. with 
see ITEMS, page 7 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports l:'dilor 
Notre Dame. 

Despite t·vents ofthe last few years, the name still has 
some magic. Especially, when it appears in the list oftop 
twenty football or basketball teams. 

However, over the last few years, the name "Notre 
Damt·" has not appeart·d among the nation's elite too of­
ten. 

Mary DiStanislao and her Notre Dame women's bas­
ketball team would like to take up where the men have 
failed and put the name of"Notre Dame" back where it 
hdongs, among the list of the country's top teams. 
That goal could be one win away or it could take until 
the end of the season to reach, hut DiStanislao knows that the team's performance this season will say a great deal about the future of Notre Dame in this growing sport. 
"Our program is at a very critical time, at a thres­hold," says DiStanislao, who is heading into her fourth year as Irish coach. "We can either take a step forward and be a strong competitive program, the kind of program where the kids know they'll only get better, or we could maintain thing.' as they are. In this case, we'll he a mediocre team" 
DiStanislao, or "Mary Di" as she is commonly called, may have heen a hit hard on the team. Last year, the team was 20-7. won eight ofits last nine games, and came close to winning a spot in the NCAA Tournament. Hardly, mediocre. However, the team is not aiming to he just good enough to make the tournament. With all hut two players returning from last year's squad, it is looking to reach tht· level ofcompetition of the top several teams in the country, many ofwhom are on the Notre Dame schedule. 
This weekend, the Irish will see just how far they have come since last February ll when they were crushed by two-time defending national champion Louisiana Tech. The event is the Notre Dame Thanksgiving Classic and the competition is defending national champion Southern Cal with Oheryl Miller, the country's best player, and Tennessee and Maryland, two other Top Ten teams. 
"Right now, what the top teams have that we don't is 
•· 
'.) 
~ "\.._ 

Mary Beth Schueth 
' 
Irish center Leading scorer and rebounder 
a high level ofconditioningand intensity," explains DiS­
tanislao. ''I'm not saying that our team isn't capable of 
competing with them because of that, hut I'm not sure 
our team has risen to that levd yl'l." 
"It's going to be a test. We're fa<:ing two of the top 
three front lines in the country in Tennessee and l'SC. 
I'm not saying we can't compete, hut our players are 
going to have to rise to some levd ofintensity and main­
tain it. If they play up to their ahilitv, we'll he tough." 
Ifthe program improves like it has since it became 
Division I three years ago. DiStanislao will have nothing 
to worry about. In rising from a I 0-1 H record in 19H0­
8l, to 16-9 the next year, to 20-7 last year, the Irish have 
gotten closer and closer to cracking into the top group 
ofteams. All that has been lacking is a victory over a 
nationally-ranked opponent. 
"Our kids have had the experience of being drubbed by the best, and they have had the experience ofplaying well and gening snubbed by the tournaments," says DiStanislao. ''I'm now concerned about how, as in­dividuals and as a team, the performance and Cl>nsis­tency improve. The big wins for the program will take care ofthemselves." 
This year, Notre Dame will once again have several opportunities to get the big win. Besides the competi­tion in the Thanksgiving tournament (see related story), the Irish will take on UCLA, Old Dominion, and Louisiana Tech -all top teams. In short, Notre Dame plays one of the toughest schedules in the country. 
"Every year the schedule becomes more difficult," says DiStanislao, a firm believer in the theory that "to be the best you have to play the best." 
"This year, the schedule is as tough as it's ever been. We're definitely playing the best in the country." 
The 1983-84 campaign will also reprc-sent Notre Dame's first season in the newly-formed North Star Conference. Also joining the conference are teams from DePaul, Dayton, Loyola, Detroit, Evansville, Butler, and Xavier. The conference winner does not receive an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament -not yet, anyway -but the fact that traditionally-independent Notre Dame is competing in a conference should make things interesting. How conference life benefits or 
see OUTLOOK, page 8 






