a .a sc we WJ< 
.. ~·---£U! 
• • • Space walk -page 8 

VOL. XVII, NO. 127 the independt:nt ~tuJent new~paper ~t·n·ing notre Jame and ~aint mary's THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 1983 
Soviet Union develops new long-range missile 
WASHINGTON (AP) The ~oviet Union has developed a new, long· range land attack cruise missile which it may deploy on mobile launchers as a fresh threat to Wes­tern Europe, U.S. intelligence sources said yesterday. 
The missile, designated by intel­ligence officials as the SSCX-4, is said to have a range ofnearly 1,900 miles, more than the American cruise, the GLCM, scheduled for deployment in Europe late this year. 
U.S. reconnaissance satellites recently detected what analysts believe is a possible mobile launcher for the SSCX-4 at a test center in the Soviet Union. It was described as a wheeled tractor-trailer vehicle big enough to launch four missiles. American officials, speaking only on condition that they remain anonymous, said the Soviets might be able to move such missiles around relatively rapidly over long distances -and that they could bring most key targets in Western Europe within their range if they were deployed in Eastern European nations belonging to the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact. 
There was no prediction as to when the new Soviet land attack 
ground-launched  cruise  missile  
might become operational.  
Jf  the  U.S.  intelligence  assess­ 

ments prove to be accurate, such new missiles would add to the per­ceived threat to Western Europe represented by intermediate-range nuclear ballistic missiles, such as the much-discussed SS-20, which carries three warheads, has a range of more than .3,1 00 miles and can hit Western Europe from well inside the Soviet Union. 
Nothing official on the SSCX-4 has appeared in Pentagon reports, al­though the recent Soviet Military Power publication spoke cryptically of "development of a series of long­range cruise missiles intended for ground, air and sea-launch plat­forms." 
That publication indicated a belief that the air-launched version will be carried by older Soviet bombers as well as the new Blackjack now un­der development. 
Based on available information, it appears that the reported new Soviet ground-launched SSCX-4 may be a counterpart to the U.S. GLCM, although the American weapon has a somewhat shorter range. 
The United States, with the official backing of the NATO alliance but opposition from peace groups in Western Europe, plans to deploy 464 GLCMs and 108 Pershing 2 bal­
listic  missiles  in  allied  countries  
starting late his year.  
President  Reagan,  in  a  retreat  

from his original call for a mutual ban of European missiles, recently offered to cut back on that deploy­ment if the Soviets will dismantle a proportionate part ofits arsenal. The Soviets have balked at that, saying it still would leave the West with a huge advantage because British and French missiles, as well as weapons launched from submarines and aircraft, would not be affected. 

Sophomore Paul Sheridan and juniors Brian Kiernan andjohn Keefe browse through reading material available as part ofa general booksale 
Programming committee formed 


SMC seeks to coordinate events 
ByTONIRUTHERFORD 
StaffReporter 
A new programming committee has been formed to coordinate campus events at Saint Mary's, according to Elaine Hocter, Student Body President. 
'Breadfor the World' 

Hunger group seeks ND support 
By CECILIA LUCERO the Midwest, the objective of the or­StaffReporter ganization is "to facilitate the growth of Bread for the World in 
Representatives from the Bread every Congressional district." for the World organization -self­Dietetler added that members work described as "the only national to obtain government policies and 'citizens' lobby focusing solely on seek bipartisan support for measures hunger" -conducted an informa­that offer help to the poor. tional seminar last night at the Cen­Bread for the World is a Christian ter for Social Concerns. citizens movement which began t~n 
According to Todd Dietetler, who years ago in Manhattan. Basically a coordinates the group's activities in public policy lobby group, accord-ing to Dietetler, Bread for the World has 43,000 members and also func­tions as an educational service to Congressional representatives. 

Reflecting on her motivation for joining the organization, Campus Coordinator Bonnie Jorgensen said she became involved in order to in­crease campus awareness. Remain­ing silent on important issues, said Jorgensen, is the same as "saying Christians don't really care." 
Jorgensen, a former public rela­tions worker, said that "the first time I was given reason to pause or reflect on that particular concept it struck me as something (in which) a Chris­tian as a person wanted to be in­volved. How could I possibly allow myself to continue to be silent on those kind of issue:s?" 
Dietetler pointed out that the or­ganization is not a direct relief service, but is concerned with specific issue areas concerning hun­ger. These include hunger preven­tion at home, which encompasses food stamp programs, medically cer­tified nutrition programs for preg­
nant  women  (WIC),  and  child  
nutrition  programs  in  public  
schools.  

Resolutions that Bread for the World has introduced in Congress ask to stop federal budget cuts in programs such as these, The or­ganization has also requested a renewal of legislation that has provided development aid for the poor this past year. 
See BREAD, page 9 
Past problems with overlapping events led to the establishment of the new committee. By seating on the committee hall and class vice­presidents, along with a Christian Life Commissioner, it should be pos­sible to keep campus or class events from being held at the same time as hall events, explained Hocter. 
She said that another purpose of the committee is to provide student support at functions through the backing of the hall and class presi­dents. "We hope that the support will result in a larger turnout," said Hocter. 
The committee will have the same commissioner positions as does the Student Activity Planning Board (SAPB ). These positions include commissioners of movies, speakers, traditional events, and entertain­ment. The key difference between this programming committee and the SAPB is the former's inclusion of class and hall vice-presidents. 
The committee, according to Hocter, is in charge of coordinating campus events such as movies, speakers, and concerts. Traditional events like Octoberfest, the Christmas Bazaar, Founder's Day ac­tivities, and An Tostal also will be handled by the committee. 
This is just a trial committee, noted Hocter, and it will be evaluated at the end of its term. If there is an improvement in coor­dination and response, it may become a permanent addition to Saint Mary's committees, she said. 


Old field house site slated for landscaping 
By MIKE WILKINS 
Senior StaffReporter 
The rubble remaining from the destruction of the old Fieldhouse 
should be gone within two weeks and work will soon begin on 
landscaping the site. 
"It's going to take the rest of this week and maybe next week 
before all the rubble is cleared away," noted Donald Dedrick, physi­
cal plant director. 
Work has been slow as of late because the foundations on the 
south side of the building are located very close to utility lines and 
workers must be careful to avoid those lines as they take out the 
foundations, said Dedrick. 
Last month's snow storm and thi~ spring's rainy weather have not 
slowed the. project. "Ifanything, the weather has been a benefit be­
cause it has helped prevent a fire that could easily start if a spark hit 
all that old wood," said Dedrick. 
Immediate plans for the area include filling in the hole left by the 
building and covering the ground with topsoil. After Commence­
ment Weekend, the north road that runs along the site will be taken 
out and crews will begin putting in sidewalks. 
The area eventually will be turned into a pedestrian mall similar t:> 
the open area in front ofthe North Dining Hall, said Dedrick. Work is 
scheduled to be completed before school resumes in August. 


News Brie/§ 
By The Obsen1er and The Associated Press 
The president of Common Cause, Fred 
Wertheimer, and Terry Dolan, chairman of the National Con­servative Political Action Committee, will debate and answer ques­tions on the proper role of the political action committee in American politics. Common Cause, an organization with more than 250,000 members, recently has launched a campaign to limit politi­cal action committees. NCPAC is the nation's largest PAC, with an estimated 40,000 active contributors. The debate and question­answer session will take place at 2 p.m. Friday in Room 101 of the Law School. -The Observer 
Robert Miller, director of University libraries at Notre Dame, is one of 16 librarians named to participate in a senior fellows program at the University of California-Los Angeles. The program is designed to create a group ofsenior library managers who have par­ticipated in management instruction. The fellows will spend six weeks at UCLA in August and September and will complete research on topics introduced during their residency in the following year. They will complete their study at a national meeting following this year. -The Observer 
An undergraduate academic course on 
the morality ofnuclear armament will be offered at Notre Dame next fall. The course, entitled "The Nuclear Dilemma," will be taught by a team of faculty members from six departments in the University's College of Arts and Letters, using the final draft of the American Catholic bishops' pastoral letter on war and peace as a text. The course will be offered as a three-credit hour elective and may be counted towards the six credit hours in theology required of all Notre Dame graduates. One hundred thirty students will be ac­cepted for the first semester. In addition to the primarily theological focus of the course, faculty mambers from the departments of Government and International Studies, Theatre and Communica­tions, Philosophy, Economics and Sociology will teach the course. -The Observer 
The new editor ofScholastic is Jim Ganther, a junior in the College of Business from Oshkosh, Wisconsin. The 1983-84 general manager is Chuck Vanravenswaay, a sophomore in business from Bedford, Texas. Jim Dever, a junior business major from New Mexico continues as business manager. -The Observer 
Laws providing for capitalpunishment should 
be abolished, according to Father Edward Malloy, associate provost and associate professor oftheology. In a book entitled "The Ethics of Law Enforcement and Criminal Punishment," recently published by the University Press of America, Malloy defends the right of legitimate political authority, when acting for "the common good" and inflicting punishment "in a non-discriatory fashion," to kill people. But in the United States, he concludes, "at the present mo­ment of history, there is no legitimate reason for invoking this power." According to Malloy, "America has survived successfully a moratorium on capitol punishment which lasted a decade. In most cases it was murderers who were spared. There seems to me to be no persuasive reason to renounce this precedent even in the case of multiple offenses." Malloy, an ethicist, received his B.A. and M.A. in English from Notre Dame in 1963 and 1967, respectively, and his master's in theology from the University in 1969. -The Observer 
The Lake Shore Limited.Amtrak's New York-to­Chicago run, will cut nearly 90 minutes from the scheduled time in both directions beginning April 24. The effective date of the new schedule will coincide with the national changeover to Daylight Savings Time. Under the new schedule, the train will leave Chicago at 6:20p.m. CDTand arrive in New York at 1:15 p.m. EDT the follow­ing day, trimming the old schedule by one hour and 22 minutes. The Lake Shore Limited makes four stops in Indiana: Hammond, Whiting, South Bend and Elkhart. According to Amtrak officials, the faster time is possible because of improved track and tighter scheduling. The scheduling was negotiated with ConRail. over whose tracks the train operates. -AP 
LaPorte officials sought state approval .yesterday for a plan to pump water from flood-swollen Pine Lake, while Iakefront residents awaited more sandbags to battle the rising water. Homes along Pine Lake, on the northwest edge of LaPorte, have sustained thousands ofdollars in damage from the floodwaters that rose a year ago and never subsided. "We're losing streets by the gross," said LaPorte Mayor William P. Angrick, who wants to pump the lake water through a city water main into the Little Kankakee River. Pre­vious solutions to the year-long flooding problem at Pine Lake have been tied up by bureaucratic red tape and court battles. More than two inches of rainfall over the weekend has worsened the situation. 
-AP 
Cloudy and mild today with high in low 50s. Con­tinued cloudy and mild tonight and tomorrow. Low around 40 and high in low to mid 50s. -AP 
Thursday, April 7, 1983 -page 2 
'Spend the money' 
MATAMOROS, Mexico -"What you need?" the young Mexican merchant asked as I cast a sideways glance at his wares. Before I could mutter a response, he 
Mark Worscheh 
began showing me a stack of hand woven blankets. "Look," he pleaded, proceeding to unfold one of the News Editor massive articles. With a cool "No, gracias," I moved on to the next shop, where the episode was repeated. Inside Thursday Meanwhile, I could hear the same vendor behind me repeating the same line to another tourist. And up ahead, a Mexican shopowner ran out of his shop and Border Patrol in one sector of Southern California yelled, "Spend the money. Spend all your money." captured a record 2,442 immigrants, according to a 

This is the old market in Matamoros, a city of about recent Newsweek report. 200,000 across the border from Brownsville, Texas. A The incoming Mexicans see the United States as their half-hour drive away, South Padre Island serves as a only hope to attain a decent living for themselves and spring break haven for thousands from the lower Mid­their children. Who could blame a Mexican parent for west. wanting to do the most for his or her family? In the same 
The old market, resembling its American cousin, the Newsweek story, Border Agent Larry Richardson says, flea market, attracts thousands of tourists in search of "Look, t here ain't ever going to be a Mexican who if bargains. Shops offering identical goods compete for really wants to be here ain't going to be here." space in the narrow mall 
Nevertheless, the influx that winds its way through has created havoc in U.S. the market. border cities, whose city 
To say that shopping in services have been strained Mexico is a good value is tru­to meet the needs ofcitizens ly an understatement. With and aliens. the devaluations ofthe peso, ,-Laredo's sales tax revenue 
the floating exchange rate is expected to decrease by stands at 153 to the dollar. close to 60 percentthisyear. Last spring, a dollar only---The greatest impact, bought 48 pesos. Those however, has been on blankets, colorful six by school districts. The U.S. eight foot creations, can be Supreme Court has ruled had for seven dollars. Liquor ----that aliens -illegal or not 
prices are one-third of those ~ -have the right to attend in the States. -::::/ public schools. In
It
Those Americans who _. . ~.: ., . -~ Brownsville, of the 1,032 
: --=-;,::

live and work on the U.S. I new students in the school side of the 1,933 mile bor--~ l '" ., .. f·, ,,-,, ... , ""'=::::;;::~~:::,.=-.... ,p,.,...... d1stnct, only 30 of them are der are painfully aware of d~~ v-.-American born, reports the exchange rate of the · l Newsweek. peso. It's driving many ofthem out of business. While this policy is wise in the long run, the strain on 
Laredo, a border town up the Rio Grande from resources and quality has become evident as districts Brownsville, is suffering 27.3 percent unemployment. rush to construct makeshift buildings. It is one ofa number ofcities that thrived when affluent BillyJoel has never written a ballad about the tough Mexican shoppers, many .of them benefiting from times along the border. Likewise, many people who live Mexico's petroleum industry, flocked to purchase ex-away from the area have no idea of the poverty there. pensive goods such as designer clothes and the latest Some ofthe poorest counties in the nation lie along this electronics from U.S. stores. division from Mexico. 
Laredo's Chamber ofCommerce president is quoted Indeed, as I was walking through the market -proud in the April issue of Texas Monthly as saying in 1979, of my bargain purchases -and as I took my 10 cent bus "The Mexicans don't even look at the price. That's their ride back to the States, I found myself trying not to last priority. They want quality, fashion and dwell on the border's problems, knowing that the availability." With the peso's collapse, these customers carefree sands ofSouth Padre were only minutes away. have stopped coming, and Americans reversed the Yet this attitude has prevailed for too long in the ac-trend, shopping for their goods in Mexico. tions ofofficials from both countries. These politicians 
Complicating the problem, Mexican immigrants il-turn their backs to the problem, preferring to act on legally are fording the Rio Grande and climbing fences real domestic issues. President Reagan would do well in unprecedented numbers to escape the economic ills to understand that Laredo and Brownsville are as of their native land. On a single day last month, the U.S. domestic as Allentown, Youngstown and Detroit. 
The-Observer 
LEAGUE OF NATIONS Design Editor....... "little Italy" Cerabona Design Assistant......."Old Ireland" Healy Layoat Staff.... .. .... "Somewhere" Smoot Tvpesetters "Outer Reaches" MacLennan "Far, far away" Oakky 
News Editor ''Le roi de Par1:t" Harrington 
CopvEditor ...................."Alitalia" Hackett 
Editorials Layout "Sunset Acres" Brown 
Sports Copy Editor. "Galapagos" Sullivan ND Day Editor.......... "Bermuda Triangle" Bailey SMC Dav Editor... "Happy Vallev" Brown Tvpist...... .. .........."foothills" Porter Ad Design ... "Arizona" Larkin Photographer... .............. "Alaska" Cupero Guest Appearances ......."Twilight Zone" Sarah 
"Mountains ofCalabria'' Riccardi Dennis"London Calling" Rvan "Gamberale'' Baby" Sciulli Colleen "Portugal" Quinn The Voice of the League ofNation' 

THANKS TO YOU 
Domino's Pizza wishes to thank all those customers who supported the recent drive to send the Notre Dame Track Team to the Sunshine Relays. Thanks to your help, Domino's was able to present a $1600 check to the Notre Dame Track Team. Students from every dorm participated. Thanks for the help! 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Friday ana on home football Saturdays except duflng exam and vacat1on peflods The Observer •s published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Col· lege Subscnpttons may be purchased for $25 per year ($ 15 per semester) by wfltlng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All repruduct•o.1 nghts are reserved 
Second class postage patd at Notre Dame ind1ana 46556 

Fast. .. Free Delivery Call us. 
277·2151 
1835 S. Bend Ave. 
Plaza 23 Center 
® 
Open for lunch 
11 am-1 am Sun. -Thurs. 
11am-2am Fri. &Sat. 
----------------------'--------~ 


-~~ 
The Observer Thursday, April 7, 1983-page 3 

Callaghan I Prevoznik 

New SB administrators learn ropes 
By CAROL CAMP up around campus. good commissioners who will be Copy Editor In what he terms an effort to in· willing to put the time into their crease the role of the rectors and jobs. Also, (Student Union director) 
Though their time in office has faculty members who comprise the Dave Drouillard is definitely one of been brief, Student Body President membership of the Campus Life their best assets." Brian Callaghan and Vice President Council ( CLC ), Callaghan plans to Other goals which Callaghan and Peggy Prevoznik already have ap­hold a "brainstorming session." Prevoznik have established and pointed the members of their Through this meeting, he hopes "to begun work on include renovating cabinet and are investigating the generate discussion about the Lafortune, Washington Hall, and the progress in plans to renovate the purpose and the role ofthe CLC, and Engineering Auditorium. Concrete tlrst floor ofLafortune, the Engineer­to increase the role of the other plans are still in the development ing Auditorium, and Washington members. After all, most of the stages right now, but Callaghan is Hall. proposals that are considered are considering a list of suggested im­
Before taking office, Callaghan student·intiated, and then they are provements for Lafortune which and Prevoznik worked with outgo­either accepted or rejected by the was submitted by Student Activities ing Student Body President Lloyd rectors. I'd like to see that change." Director Jim McDonnell. Callaghan Burke and Vice-president Bob Callaghan said he hopes to also stated his intention to continue Yonchak. They also met with the develop a close working relation­advocating the establishment a new newly-elected Senators and class of­ship with the director, comptroller, student center, commenting that tlcers in an effort to, in Prevoznik's and commissioners of the Student "we have good people, such as john words, "get over the formalities of Union. Such a relationship, in Callag­Gallagher, interested in it, and a getting to know each other." han's view, will "be essential, espe­large number of faculty members 
. Now that the introductions have cially since Peggy, Julie have come out in favor of it." 
been made, Callaghan and Prevoznik (Vormezelee), and I will be mem· Considering the Farley-Stanford 
have begun to examine the status of bers of the Steering Committee." coed dorm proposal which was ap­
several unfinished projects. Before Callaghan expressed his optimism proved by the Senate, Callaghan ob­
the end of the year, they hope to about Student Government's ability served that it is his and Prevoznik's 
have lights installed for the Stepan to work with Student lJnion, noting 
see ROPES, page 9

basketball courts, and benches set that "they have appointed really 
.................................................................................................................................................... 

Student Activities meeting 
monday, Aptilll, 7:00pm, Libtaty Auditotium 
PURPOSE: 

To explnin new procedures nnd to answer questions regarding registrntion of clubs, finnncinl stntements, budget requests, movie and footbnll concessions, etc. WHO SHOULD COmE: A representive from ench club or orgnnization on campus. 
.........................................................................................................................................."'"'"''" 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. 
. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP 
ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
Associated Press 
Prince Charles collects a kissfrom Rebecca La Forgia, /6, during an awards ceremony at the Oval in Port Pirie yesterday. The young girl earlier had asked Princess Diana's permission to kiss Charles . 





ICELANDAIR IS STILL 
YOUR BEST VALUE 

TO EUROPE 
r----LUXEMBOURG---
RouNorRIP 

FROM  
FROM  BALTIMORE/  rROM  
NEW YORK  WASHINGTON  CHICAGO  

~ ~u~t·r Al'~.X F.trc·· .-\pnll·Apnl :Jo. l~M:J 7-tin d;l\ -.td\. 14 rl.n .uh.1111 ,. purl"hi'~'>t' r~·rJU1rt'll 
ALSO LOW COST SERVICE TO PARIS, FRANKFURT, AMSTERDAM AND NICE. AND, REMEMBER, ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS: 
• Fret· dt•luxe mntorcoarh from Luxembourg to Frankfurt. Dusseldorf. Cologne. Bilburg. :'llannhem1. Wu~per!al and Kehl. Germany. • Bargam car rentals from $99/week m Luxembourg. • Free wme w11h rlmner. cognac aftt'r. h-t•!anda!r I<~ Luxt·mb"ur)i( Luxa1r ,·nnnt•,·tm~ :>t•n"ll"l'ln otht·r dt''illnanun~. 
{(hl\'aw•· \11dwt•t•k Far,• 1 Pur, ha!>t' lh"kt·ts m l" S All fan·<; subjt'• 1 tr• ,·hangt· end gr.vt-rnmt•n! appr~>val Sn· \11Ur tra\·t·l a~l"nl ,,r' all MOO -l:):l-l:!lllur lht• :ttll·frt•t• h t'ldndaJr numbt·r m 


Hm:· many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month d~nng your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company atter graduation'? under a special Xavy program we're doing just that. It's called the .:'\uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it. you'll not ·only' get great pay during your junior and senior !·ears. but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable gradunte-level training that is not m·ailable from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or ph_\·sical sciences. find out more today. And let your career pav off \\·bile still in college. · 
For more information. call the Kava! Management Programs Office at: 
1·800-382-3782 

StaRts 1ts ~amous 
a~teRnoon lunches thiS thURS & ~RI ~Rom 11:00ttll1 :00. 
Com€ outanb REally EnJOY youR lunch tim€ BREak 


------......-----~r --~------~••--~ ---~ --------­
Thursday, April 7, 1983-page 4
The Observer 
~ 
Business lecture 
Financial plans trigger success 
: I Spanish Club 
1 I  Tczrtulia  
I  
I  
:  Friday. April 8  4-Spm  
:  in La Fortune·s South Alcove  
I  
I  
:  nvenga para hablar con nosotros  

1 y practicar el arte de con versa cion .. 1 
L--·••••••••••••••••••••J 
THEHIJRLEM 

GLOBETROTTERS® 
I to have an awful lot ofcontldence in : your ideas and capabilities." Bate attributed her personal• success to being "able to attack problems from a different
I I I 
: : I I : 
SENIOR SPECIAL 

CHOO~E I ROM ' I'RI \II \\ S :1''' 
I -8 x I 0 Color P<lflrait 

, 5 Special $29.50 
2~ -Blllf<>ld Color Print' 
YES, WE HAVE Caps & Gowns "IN YOUR SCHOOL COLORS .. , TASSELS TOO!" 
UW"cDonald Studio 
326 Lincoln Way West South Bend, Indiana 466(JJ Phone: 232-2003 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre presents a Readers' Theatre production of WILLIAM FAULKNERs novel 

perspective. People appreciated a non-traditional approach to things." 
Bate encouraged potential busi­ness owners to know from where the money for the business is com· ing, and to be honest and realistic about future expenses and income. She stressed that, in your own busi­ness, "you have to be the organizer and the manager." 



Fighting continues in Nicaraguan revolution 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) ­The leftist Nicaraguan government's troops battled rebels yesterday in northeastern Zelaya province trying to create a "liberated" zone there, government military sources reported. 
The sources, who asked not to be identified for security reasons, said fighting also intensified below the other end of the Honduran border, in the northwestern provinces of Nueva Segovia, Jinotega and Matagalpa. 
The Sandinista army killed 23 guerrillas who were tryng to reach a gold mine in Zelaya, the Defense Ministry said. 
A rebel broadcast said anti­Sandinista Indians killed 30 govern­ment soldiers and wounded ten. It also said four air force planes bombed Indian communities all day Tuesday in Zelaya province, on the east coast, and killed "dozens of women, old people and children." 
One government source said, "Our army is centering its opera­tions in Zelaya, because the rebels are trying to take an area and declare it liberated territory that could be supplied from Honduras." 
The sources would not say how many government troops were in the area. Defense Minister Hum­berto Orea said earlier that 150 anti­Sandinista exiles were headed toward the region after crossing the border from Honduras. 
A defense Ministry communique said the 23 rebels killed were part of an "invading force" that traveled by river to within II miles of the Bonanza gold mine, 270 miles north­east of Managua. It said nothing about army casualties. 
The rebel radio station said fight­ing continued yesterday in the areas of the Bonanza mine as well as the nearby Siuna and La Rosita mines. 
The government said the deaths raised the total in two months of fighting to 450 guerrillas and 72 government soldiers. Its estimates of rebel strength range from 1,200 to 
• 5,000. The rebels, from the Honduras· based Nicaragua Democratic Force, include former members of the late dictator Anastasio Somoza's national guard, disenchanted supporters of the Sandinista revolution that ousted him in 1979, and Miskito, Sumo and Rama Indians driven from their east coat villages by the San­dinista government. In the northwest, the military sources report, about 2,000 troops supported by reserves and militiamen were pursuing exile­guerrillas from Honduras in the mountains near Quilali, in Nueva Segovia I I 5 miles north of Managua, and Wiwili, on the Nueva Segovia· ) inotega border I05 miles north of the capital. 
ATTENTION TAXPAYERS! • A new law requiring partial with­holding of taxes on interest and dividend 1ncome will take effect July 1, 1983. If you have an interest-earning 
account or receive dividend pay· ments, this law will affect you! This is not a new tax. Like with­
holding on salary checks, it 
merely chang~s the way taxes 
are collected. 
Exemptions are available for older Amencans, lower income 
Individuals and those with small savings accounts. To see if you qualify, contact your bank, finan­Cial mstitution or the Internal Revenue Service in your area. 
A publiC serv1ce message from 
the Internal Revenue Serv1ce 
Bate also said that the three main assets in starting one's own business are skills, plans, and resources. 
The early years are the most dif. ficult for small businesses, said Bate, and the challenges begin only after the business starts work. But, in terms of reward, Bate said that "nothing is more rewarding than • getting the idea for a small business." 

Applications are now available for May & August. Pick up in Student Activities Office, 1st floor LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Monday, April11. will be awarded on Tuesday, April12. 
NO FEE 
Ir··---------------------~I 
By CINDY BOYLE 
News Staff 
In order to begin a successful business, one must start with good financial plans, said the owner of a local advertising agency last night at Saint Mary's. 
Sandra Bate, President and owner of Imprint, Inc., presented a lecture on "Starting Your Own Business" as part of the "Women in Workplace" lecture series. 
In addition to her job with Im­print, Inc., Bate is the owner of the magazine Today in Micbiana. 
"You have to have an awful lot of confidence in your_self," Bate advised those interested in starting their own businesses. "You also have 

15'o Discount 

~ not including 
,  sale items  
N.D.-S.M.C.  
FOX'S  JEWELERS SINCE IQI7  Students  
..  

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

April?, 9 at'S pm, AprilS at 9 pm • Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's College • $3 General Admission $2.50 Students, Senior Citizens, Faculty &Staff Opening Night: 2 for the price of l•lnformation: 284-462& 
-~~~-------------­

--------·------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, April 7, 1983-page 5 
Unemployed steelworkers 


Reagan greeted by demonstration 


N.D. Student Union presents a week of 
-{ WAR MOVIES 
·"­

April 5-9 
Thursday 

Tora Tora Tora 
Friday 

Guns of Navarone 
Saturday 

Apocalypse Now 
All nights at 7:00 & 10:15 Engineering Aud. $1 
. ~ 
R.'IS SoM 
ol~ 


PITTSBURGH (AP) -President 
Reagan, taking his pitch for high 
technology job retraining amongst a 
sea ofunemployed steelworkers, ran 
into one of the largest protest 
demonstrations of his presidency 
yesterday. 
After a tour ofthe Control Data In· stitute, where 125 jobless steel· workers are being trained to repair computers, Reagan spoke to the Na· tiona! Conference on the Displaced Worker while thousands stood outside in a cold rain waving signs and chanting. 
"Reagan, Reagan, he's no good. Send him back to Hollywood," they said. 
Among the banners: "Reagans Friends Get Tax Breaks. Steel· workers Get Pink Slips." And: "Buck Stopped Here When Ronald Reagan Took Office." 
The president, whisked into the hotel through an underground garage, could see only a smattering of the crowd, which police es­timated at 3,500. 
But he acknowledged that he was in hostile territory when he departed from his text to say, "I come to you not only as a speaker but as a possible victim." 
He noted that many at the bipar­tisan gathering might like to see him dislocated from his job. 
"We as a nation owe an obligation as well as a helping hand to those who pay the price ofeconomic read· justment," the president said in the prepared part of his speech. "Government -federal, state and local -should provide support for job training and re-employment as· sistance." 
Anger and skepticism were evi· 



Couple arrested in rape case of adopted child 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP)-A white man who claims his adopted daughter was taken from him be­cause he's married to a black woman was arrested yesterday on a rape warrant. His wife also was arrested. 
A memphis newspaper said the warrant from Monroe County, Tenn., accused Robert Yeary, 42, and his wife, Carolyn, 30, of raping their 7-year-old adopted daughter. 
Elliott LaBarre, a detective with 
the Memphis Police Department, 
said the Yearys \\-ould be held for au­
thorities in Monroe County. 
"Rape my own daughter? Hell no," 
Yeary yelled as he was taken into 
custody. 
Yeary and his wife, residents ofin­dianapolis, were working as coun­selors at Tellico River Camp Ministries. a religious camp for un­derpriviliged youngsters in Monroe County, when the rape supposedly occurred, the Commercial Appeal of Memphis said. 
Yeary said he and his wife adopted the child in Indiana two years ago, but Juvenile Court authorities have questioned that claim since the Yearys have criminal records. 
Authorities said Yeary pleaded guilty in Indiana to charges of theft, assault, rape and sodomy. His wife served time on a forgery charge, au­thorities said. 
The child was put in the custody of the Memphis Juvenile Court on March 28 when the Yearys were ar­rested in Chattanooga with Dianne Hamlin, 28, of Huntsville, Texas. 
Mrs. Hamlin subsequently pleaded guilty to abandoning her four small children at a McDonald's restaurant in Memphis on March 24. 
She was sentenced to 1 1 months and 29 days in jail. 
Child abuse charges filed against the Yearys were dropped after Mrs. Hamlin's guilty plea, but Judge Ken­neth Turner ruled Monday that the couple's adopted daughter must stay in court custody. 
Turner issued that ruling after he was given a stack ofsexually explicit pictures seized at the time of the Yearys' arrest. 
The judge said the pictures show 
See ARREST, page 9 


dent in the computer classroom as well as on the .street outside the con· ference hotel. 
At Control Data, several ofthe stu­dents, most ofwhom had lost jobs in the steel mills, asked Reagan if they were wasting their time retraining for jobs that might not exist by the time they finish their training in several months. 
A man who identified himself as Ron Bricker approached Reagan af. ter the president's brief remarks, handed him a resume and said, "I've been looking for a job for a year and can't find one." 
Reagan took the resume and shook the man's hand, telling a cor­porate executive afterward that Bricker was "typical of the kind of person we want to help." 

NO Clubs & Organizations TIME TO RE-REGISTER FOR 83-84. NEW SYSTEM THIS YEAR! 
1. 
Registration-now thru April 22. 

2. 
Activity Report-Due by April 22. 


3. Applications for activity funds for 83-84-Due by_ April 22. 
4. 
Footbal Concession Stand for Fall, 83-Due April22. 

5. 
Movie Application for Fall, Spring 83-84-Due April15 


All forms available in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune. FUNDS FOR NEXT YEAR WILL BE AWARDED THIS SPRI~~ 


n 
0 
c:
., 
0
-
COUPON 
17" 
Cheese Pizza 

$7.10 
Additional Ingredients 90¢ Tax Included Offer good with no other coupon. Expires 4/13/83 
COUPO 

Jolisq Jrincc





,. .

tzzcrtll 
18061 So. Bend Ave. 

272-8030 
FREE DELIVERY 
toND/SMC 

10 PERCENT OFF ANYTIME WITH NO COUPON. STUDENT I. D. REQUIRED. 
• SANDWICHES •PIEROGI• •CZARNINA •BLINTZES • 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 4:00-1:30 A.M. 

-...;O~q•.,..." Any oneway or local rental card rate with this COUPON! 

Offer good through June 30, 1983 
f"ii!:~~~a-~----!l_3715~!ndi':_~~~~~u_!l~_l~e~~ 

RYDERTRUCKRENTAL 
2715N. BENDIX DR South Bend 
Movin'out? 
RENTA 


RYDER TRUCK 
If you're 18 or over you can rem a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-lt-here.leave-i.t-there) tnp to another City 
Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end of the semester W1th a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. clothes. all your stuff. and st1ll have plenty of room for one or two other people and the1r th1ngs. so you can share the costs Compare that to a plane tiCket Or even a bus. 
Rent from the best-malntamed. most dependable fleet 1n 
1 1
R 


the world Ryder The best truck money can rent ......E .. 
~ 

COUPON 
14'' 
Cheese Pizza 
$5.40 
Additional Ingredients 75¢ Tax Included Offer good with no other coupon. Expires 4/13/83 
UPON 


CALL 277-3550 TO MAKE YOUR RESERVATION 
Thursday, April 7, 1983 -page 6
The Observer 
LaPorte Republicans 
Nixon to speak at fundraiser 

LAPORTE, Ind. (AP)-Response to the LaPorte County Republicans' fund-raising dinner featuring Richard Nixon has been so great that organizers say they have sold out the event and have had to return money to people wanting to attend. 
The former president is scheduled to appear at a 550-a-plate dinner for the LaPorte County Republicans on April 20. Republicans sold 200 tickets within days of the announcement and quickly printed another 200, which sold almost as rapidly. 
"Now we're in the process of returning money to people who wanted tickets," said John J. Han­berg, chairman of"An Evening With Richard Nixon." The fund-raiser is to be at the Holiday Inn. 
Hanberg said LaPorte Republicans were quite surprised -and happy -when Nixon accepted their in­vitation to speak. 
"He will talk about in~ernational 
affairs. But there will be no press 
..,ox~ford,n.-A style of footwear; A type of cloth shirt; A fine University; The most distinguished apartments in Indianapolis to call home; A habitat for adults, singles, or roommates; A quality 'lifestyle for you, the graduating senior. Syn: See apartment list­
ing below. 
NORTHWEST INDIANAPOliS 
1. 
SPYGLASS One block South of 86th Street on Township Line Road. 875-6600 

2. 
ABINGTON W(!st 47th Street and Georgetown Rood. 298-8005 

3. 
DEERCROSS 1/• Mile West of 1-465 on West 38th Street. 297-4700 

4. 
WIND DRIFI' l'.z Mile West of 1-465 on West 38th St. 291-7700 

5. 
BAYHEAD VILLAGE 1'.z Mile West of 1-465 on West 38th Street. 298-7510 

6. 
CHESAPEAKE LANDING •;, Mile West of1-465 on West 38th Street. 297-2240 

7. 
PEBBLE POINT West on SR 136 just post 1-465 in the Waterfront Development. 297-1338 

8. 
FISHERMAN'S VILLAGE West onSR136justpastI-465intheWater­


front Development. 299-4727 9. HOMESTEAD 5100 West 34th Street. 297-1630 
10. SHORELAND TOWERS 3710 North Meridian. 925-3410 
coverage. Reporters could buy tick­ets, but with the condition that they could not write or broadcast stories about the talk," Han berg said. 
The former president has ac­cepted speaking invitations from as­sociations, universities and civic groups, said Nicholas L. Ruwe, Nixon's chief of staff. Last week he was in Palm Beach, Fla., and on April 
1 5 he will appear in Atlanta. 
"And I've got stacks of other in­vitations from other organizations," Ruwe said, "too many to accept." 
When Nixon resigned in 1974 in the aftermath of the Watergate scan­dal, he was unwelcome in most circles, political or otherwise. 
Friends close to Nixon said he, 
like Rodney Dangerfield, wants a 
little respect and acceptance, par­
ticularly among Republicans. 
Nixon received more than a little respect last April 21, when more than 700 persons each paid S150 to attend a fund-raiser for Orange County Republicans in Anaheim, 

Present this ad at an Oxford Community for a free gift. 
j} 

NORTHEAST INDIANAPOliS 
11. 
RIVERWOOD 9600 N. Allisonville Rood. 842-2434 

12. 
SCANDIA 9200 N. Allisonville Rood. 842-4005 


12. AUTUMN WOODS 91st and Allisonville Rood. 849-1422 
14. 
RIVERBEND 8800 Allisonville Rood at 1·465. 842-5200 

15. 
WOODS EDGE 6200 East 86th Street along the north edge of Castleton Square. 849-9400 

16. 
SALEM COURTHOUSE East 56th Street at 1-465. 542-1001 

17. 
PEPPERMILL 4380 N. Shodelond Ave. 545-6061 

18. 
CHESWICK VILLAGE 1/, Mile East of Post Rood on East 30th Street. 897-9200 

19. 
THE HERITAGE 5055 East42nd Streetat Emerson Avenue. 545-3375 

20. 
THE MEADOWS 4006 Meadows Drive. 542·8116 


BENT TREE now open at 8200 N. Michigan Rd . • 875-8088 Models open weekdays 9:00-6:00, Saturday 9:00-5:00, Sunday noon-5 :00. G}~ 
Calif., the former president's home turf. He was greeted by a standing ovation and a band playing "Hail to the Chief." 
"Ofcourse. he wants seniorstates­
man status," said L. Keith Bulen, a 
former Republican national comit­
teeman from Indiana who is com­
missioner of the International Joint 
Commission ofthe United States and 
Canada. "He's a very serious person 
and has a wealth of information and 
knowledge, particularly about 
foreign affair. It's understandable 
that he wants to contribute." 
Bulen and Gordon K. Durnil, chairman of the Indiana Republican State Committee, were within the inner circles ofthe Nixon campaigns of 1968 and 1972, and both were contacted by the former president when he was weighing the invitation from LaPorte. 
Both said they advised Nixon his 
appearance in LaPorte would help 
the GOP there. 
"Whoever has Nixon as a speaker 
is going to make money," Durnil 
said. "I believe he would outdraw 
(former) President Ford, (civil 
rights leader) Jesse Jackson or any 
other public figure. But there are 
other risks." 
Those other risks include the pos­
sibility that people may harbor ill 
feelings about Nixon's role in 
Watergate and transfer some of that 
sentiment to the politician so 
unwise as to invite the former presi­
dent into his backyard. 
Mayor Richard Berkley of Kansas City, Mo., for example, said he will boycott Nixon's appearance at a fundraiser scheduled by Missouri Republicans the day after the former president appears in LaPorte. 
The mayor of LaPorte, however, said he is happy and plans to attend the LaPorte dinner. 
"I've been county chairman for 
the Republican Party three times," 
said Mayor William P. Angrick, "and 
I've talked with Nixon on a one-to­
one basis several times. And I'm per­
sonally glad he's coming. 
Other Republicans will not be available, however. reportedly be­cause of prior commitments. Gov. Robert D. Orr prviously had ac­cepted a speaking engagement and Sens. Richard G. Lugar and Dan Quayle had previous engagements. 
Rep. John P. Hiler, whose 3rd Dis­trict includes LaPorte, will not at­tend because of budget sessions in Congress, his press aide said. 
Oxide dust 

transfers to Indiana 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. (AP) ­
Forty-nine truckloads of zinc oxide 
dust will be transferred from a But­
ler County strip mine to a hazardous 
waste landfill in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Jack Watkins, a field representa­
tive with the state Division of Waste 
Management, also announced that 
all parties involved in the removal 
met Tuesday and agreed on what 
group would pay for all or parts of 
the cleanup. 
But the state has not been told 
who will pay for removing the dust 
from a Bowling Green warehouse 
and the strip mine, he said. 
Charles Schaffner, attorney for 
TLC corp., which owns the dust 
along with RAD chemical Co. and is 
responsible for the cleanups, 
declined comment on the meeting. 
Schaffner did say he expected the 
total cost ofthe cleanups at both the 
Beech Street warehouse and Butler 
County sites to be S-!00,000. 
Watkins said RAD, TLC, Triangle 
Resources Industries, which is 
overseeing the cleanups, environ­
mental officials and attorneys for 
each group met for hours. The en­
vironmental officials then left the 
meeting. 




Editorials 
Thursday, April 7, 1983 -page 7 
The new sound of Notre~Dame 
Editor's note: This is the second in a two­part series on possible changes in the works at the student radio station, WSND. 
Tim Neely 
My Turn 

If the plan to transform the WSND-AM for­mat onto the FM band at 100.9 megaHertz gets past the formative stages and actually happens, it will be good for those who work there as well as the community in general. A student-run commercial station serving the entire South Bend area should have positive results. Without the proper thought and plan­ning, however, there might be problems. 
There are a few items that the new station will have to consider because of the wider scope of its operations. Successfully tackling these potential problems should mean there will be few difficulties overall. 
The first, and foremost, of these is the Federal Communications Commission. As a low-powered carrier-current station, WSND­AM is not bound to FCC rules, yet tries to fol­low them informally. The new station will have to become much more strict about these regulations. Legal identification every hour will have to be according to FCC guidelines; personal attacks and the like, which oc­casionally pollute the airwaves, will have to end entirely; and obscene language, which most WSND-AM announcers do a good job of avoiding on the air already, must be watched on record as well. 
The station will also have to stay on the air during breaks and over the summer, as the FM station does, in order to keep its license. Right now WSND-AM goes off when students are not here. This may mean it will have to pay some of its employees to work the breaks. 
This leads to another potential bugaboo: money. Currently WSND-A M !!eto; most of its operating budget from the Office of Student Activities, with the rest from advertising revenue. As a commercial station, it is only logical that the new FM station should meet more of its expenses through advertising ­not so much, however, that the airwaves become cluttered with commercials; after all, this is supposed to be the students' radio sta­tion. 
As such, the target audience for the station is one of the least of anybody's worries. First and foremost, it should cater to the tastes of the community. This is not as easy as it sounds, however, because ofthe widely varying tastes ofND-SMC students. My suggestion is to try to fill some void in South Bend radio, of which there are many. It should not try to duplicate another local station's format. 
Once it has begun to establish its niche, then the last step is looking at the ratings. If the new station hopes to succeed among ad­vertisers, eventually it will need to have some indication of the size and type of audience they are reaching. At the same time, it should remember its main purpose -to serve the community; the Arbitrons must not rule the station's every move, as they do in so many other place~. Ifit is felt a change is necessary, it should be done not with higher ratings as the sole motive. 
Hopefully, after all this, FM 100.9 will become a real alternative to a very bland South Bend radio scene. Then will come some hoped-for fringe benefits: a greater sense of pride in working for the station; more respect from record companies, some ofwhom make WSND-FM pay for their product, others of which send new LPs out late, if at all (A&M is an example ofthe former, Capitol-EM! the lat­ter); and greater respect from the students who don't work for the station, reflected in more stereos tuned to the student station. When the latter happens, then the Notre Dame student radio station will truly be, as it now claims to be, "The Sound of Notre Dame." 

USA Today revolutionizes news 
The change in the three "local" newspapers since the debut of USA Today in the South Bend market has been startling. 
Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 

The two Chicago papers, and South Bend's own, have taken to featuring a great deal more 
-color pictures on the front pages. This move is no doubt an effort to compete with the color­ful, brash national paper that began publica­tion here in early March. 
USA Today has no home delivery, and relies heavily on newsstand sales. It was thought that fact would, at least in Chicago, hurt the Sun-Times greatly. The tabloid also relies heavily on newsstand sales, from which it gets some 60 percent ofits circulation. 
In anticipation of USA Today'sappearance, the Sun-Times revamped its sports section, with new typeface reminiscent of the old Chicago Daily News. The new type has since been expanded to much of the paper, making it more pleasing to the eye, and easier to read. 
The staid Chicago Tribune was the first to go the color route, with a different masthead for each edition. The color bas expanded to the fashion and, particularly, to the sports sec­tion. 
All three papers have beefed up the sports coverage, with the Tribune's vastly expanded Scoreboard section the most evident im­provement. 
Changes here in South Bend have been more gradual. Graphically, the paper has shown a slow but dramatic improvement. While they have had some problems with the color pictures, they are making an honest effort. 
The South Bend paper is limited in the amount of expansion it can achieve in the sports department by a relatively small staff. There is, after all, only so much a few people can cover. 
The real question is whether the ap­pearance ofUSA Today in this market has im­proved the coverage ofthe news. I don't think it has had much ofan effect at all. Yet. 
It is still too early to say how the new paper has affected circulation at any of its com­petitors. Figures are still not accurate due to the "novelty" factor attributable to any new paper. But circulation will be the key. 
If USA Today makes a significant dent in the circulations of any of these papers, greater news coverage, particularly of local and regional stories, will be the key to survival. 
As a national paper that appears in the exact same form from coast to coast, USA Today cannot devote column inches to local stories. The only way to get the news from home will continue to be the local papers. 
Local papers m!lst be flexible. And the South Bend Tribune, which has the most to lose, has shown the greatest willingness to do so. Their move to Saturday mornings is a trial balloon ofsorts. With the changing economic make-up of the area -from heavily industrial to more white-collar -i! may be that there are more "morning newspaper" people out there. 
The Chicago papers may be torced to do what the Detroit Free Press did this week, and the Boston Globe has done for some time ­publish an afternoon edition to gain a whole new type ofaudience. 
The signs are hard to see, but they are there. USA Today is improving the way we get our news. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
Emergency "care" 
DearEditor: 
Recently in the North Dining Hall I wit­nessed a diabetic seizure and was one offour or five individuals who aided the victim (a term I will continue to use because ofsubse­quent events). I do not care to dwell on my disappointment with the reactions of all those who simply stood around gaping; I chose to help because I felt I had some knowledge of what to do in the situation. What I do wish to address is the total inade­quacy of the medical treatment that the vic­tim received. 
As a result of a fall at the beginning of the seizure, the victim suffered a severe knock to his head and seriously bit into his tongue. After approximmately ten minutes the violent effects of the seizure had subsided and the victim had regained some facsimile of coherence. He still was extremely confused and could not remember his last name, much less anything else. About this time Notre Dame Security arrived on the scene. I, and the others around me, assumed that an ambulance would be forthcoming, hut we learned that none had been called by 
security. We were forced to convince the of­
ficers that indeed this was a situation that 
might warrant medical attention, and a 
paramedic squad was summoned. 
It was this paramedic squad that was able to first discern from the victim that he was a , diabetic. For some reason, this knowledge caused them to completely disregard the head and tongue injuries. Some twenty minutes after the incident began the paramedics had the victim sitting in a chair 
signing a release form stating that he refused transportation to a medical facility. He was still dizzy, completely oblivious to the pain of his injuries, and in a state ofextreme con­fusion and memory loss. Yet these supposed professionals were allowing him to determine whether he should go to a hospi­tal or be released on his own recognizance. We were told that the paramedics "couldn't do anything to (the victim ) that he didn't want." There was not even a suggestion that he be taken to the infirmary until the four of us who had aided him forced the issue upon the "experts," who reluctantly agreed that it 
might not be a bad idea. 
Once at the infirmary the situation grew worse as three of us were subjected to a nurse's attempted powerpiay. The nurse in charge brushed off any explanations which those of us who had witnessed the incident . 
tried to provide. She preferred to get the in­formation from the victim, even though one of the doctors had suggested that, in his state, he would not be reliable. Fed up with this seeming lack of concern, I sought the attention of another doctor down the hall and explained our predicament. He im­mediately stated that the victim should be transported without" delay to St. joseph's Hospital emergency room. I returned to the nurse and relayed this information to her, at which point she jeered at our group's con­cern with such questions as: "Who's in charge here anyway?" and "Did you boys take a vote on this?" 
At this point the security guard who had transported us to the infirmary asked the nurse if he would be needed right away to take the victim to the hospital. She told him no and he began to leave. I couldn't believe that she was countermanding a doctor's recommendation and stepped in to reiterate what the doctor had said. With this she tore some papers from her clipboard and, with and abusive comment, relinquished her hold on the victim. 
It was almost an hour and fifteen minutes from the beginning ofthe seizure to the time that we finally arrived at the hospital. The victim was still in a state of confusiOn; he could not remember his campus phone number, social security number, or his father's name when asked to fill out an entrance form. Ten minutes later, after receiving the proper treatment, he was fine except for a bump on his head and a swelling tongue. He left the hospital an hour later at: ter being treated for a possible concussion. The attending doctor also recommended that he be examined in the near future for a possible seizure disorder. 
I am horrifkd by the treatment this per­son received at a time when he was in serious danger. I dread to think of what mistakes will be made in the future and the consequences that might arise. St. Joseph's Hospital has promised a formal investigation into the paramedics' actions and I intend to hold them to their commitment. 
Patrick D. Dodd 

Editor's Note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily space con­straints of the editorial page. Letters should be under 250 words and address specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonym~ are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to per,o;ons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subjed to editing. 

Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic Saint Mary's Editor...............Anne Monastyrski Box Q, Notre Dame, I:V 46556 
Managing Editor ....................Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the lini-~ 
ExecutiveEditor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Coitege. It does not necessarily reflect 
News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci the policies of the administration of eit'ler institution. The news is reported as ac­
News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editoriab represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict Department Managers the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, BusinessManager ................ ....... Daniel O'Hare Cir·culation Manager......................Mark Miotto and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus, through letters, is encouraged. Controller .............................. .............Alex Szilvas Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley (219)239-5303 Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 
lo.­

L • 
r ~ 
I 
The Observer Thursday, April 7, 1983 -page 8 
. . 


AJiSOCiated Press 

A television shot shows the aft section ofthe Tracking and Data Relay Satellite in the cargo bay ofthe Shuttle Challenger Monday after the blastoff from Cape Kennedy. A problem. apparently developed with the rocket engines of the satellite after it was deployed from the Challenger cargo bay. NASA officials say they have regained contact with the satellite and that it is not in the desired orbit. 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­Now comes the fun part of Challen­ger's first flight: a three-hour excur­sion into the open cargo bay today during which two astronauts may "kind of hop straight up" to see what's flapping loose on the ship's tail. 
So eager was mission specialist Story Musgrave to get on with the dress rehearsal for the walk he'll take with Don Peterson that he began checking out their space suits five hours ahead of schedule. 
At White Sands, N.M., meanwhile, engineers tlrmed up plans to correct the orbit of the huge communica­tions satellite that went astray after being ejected from Challenger on Monday. But they ran into trouble, again -and got out of it, again. 
The astronauts' practice session involved putting on the bulky space suits and pressurizing the airlock ­everything short of actually leaving the spaceship. 
The purpose is to pinpoint any problems in advance. On the last flight of Columbia problems with both space suits were discovered 
Before We Put You In Charge Of The World's Most Sophisticated Nucle~ Equipment, 
We Put You Through The World's 
Most Sophisticated Nudear Training. 
It takes more than 16 that most of the men months of intensive who operate the training to become a reactors in private fully qualified officer in industry started in the the Nuclear Navy. You Nuclear Navy.) begin with four months It takes more time of leadership training. and more effort to Then as a Navy officer . become an officer in the you get a full year of 1 Nuclear Navy. But the graduate-level training rewards are greater, too. 
unavailable anywhere else at any price. 
Navy training is based on more than 1900 reactor-years of experience. Right now the Navy operates over half the nuclear reactors in America. And the Navy's nuclear equipment is the most sophisticated inthe world. Tha,t's why your Navy training is and must be the most sophisticated in the world. 
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, you have decision-making authority immediately. You get important manage­
ment responsibility fast. Because in the. Navy, as your knowl­edge grows, so does your responsibility. 
Your training and experience place you among the country's most qualified profes­sionals. (No surprise 
First in nine years 

Shuttle astronauts ready for walk 
hours before the astronauts were to make their space walk. The exercise was canceled. 
During today's excursion, the. pair are to test the suits and tools and techniques for servicing and repair­ing satellites on future shuttle mis­sions. It will be the first space walk by Americans in nine years. 
Flight Director Randy Stone was asked yesterday whether Musgrave and Peterson had plans to float out of the cargo bay to inspect loose nylon material near Challenger's orbital engines that was noticed by the astronauts after launch. 
"I suspect, knowing the crew, their enthusiasm for doing things, if we give them the opportunity, they'll go back and take a picture of it," Stone said. "I don't think it means climbing out." lie said he isn't in­volved in the planning but suspects they will, "on their long tether just kind of hop straight up and take a picture of it." 
A NASA spokesman said no tirm decision had been made on whether Musgrave and Peterson will be given the choice. 


The rewards can begin as early as your junior year in college.'Qualify, and the Navy will pay you approximately $1000/month while you finish school. 
After four years, with regular promotions and salary increases, you can be earning as much as $40,500. That's on top of a benefits package that includes medical and dental care, and 30 days' vacation earned every year. More responsibility, more money, more future. So, if you're majoring in math, 
r =V~~;;U-;:;;T-;-----;;;;; 1 
INFORMATION CENTER 
I
I P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 I I
0 Please send me more information about 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. t0NI 
I 1
Name-~~----~~~~---.~----­
First !PleaS(> Print) La~tt 
I
1 Address Apt. 11--­
1 City State Zip__ I 
I Age tCollege/University I 
I.:f:Year in College tGPA I .ti.Major/Minor·----------------­Phone Number I1 

I 
IAr~ta Codt>l Beost Time to CBH This is for general recruitment information. You do not havl' to 
I 
furnish any of the information r~uested. Of course. the mort" we 
know, the more we can help to dt-termtne the kinds of Navy posi· 
J 
tions for which you qualify. 



L----------­

engineering or the physical sciences, and you want to know more about a future in nuclear power, fill in the coupon. 
Today's Nuclear Navy is an opportunity like no other in the world. 
NavyOfficers Get ResponsibilityFast. 
'•.t·....... ,•.'( .... 
·'" ,.. -~-... ­

On the third day of Challenger's five-day flight, astronauts Paul ]. Weitz and Karol Bobko, commander and pilot, were busy with experi­ments and they photographed light­ning over the Gulfof Mexico. 
There were few complaints about Challenger's performance. "It's very easy to babysit this vehicle when it's operating so well," said Stone. 
A jet thruster on the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite stuck in a closed position and it began tumbling late Tuesday. A radio command from White Sands, which is ground con­trol for the TORS, stopped the spin. 
Some of the satellite's 24 small 
thrusters will be used to send the 
satellite to its proper orbit. NASA's 
Robert 0. Aller told reporters that 
the operation, once it begins, will 
take about a week. 
Bad storms ravage parts of country 
By The AssociatedPress 

A snowstorm blamed for eight deaths has postponed the arrival of spring from New Mexico to Michi­gan while 10 inches of rain has flooded part of the Mississippi Val· ley, driving some people to the roof­tops. 
Hundreds of people in the Mississippi Valley from Illinois and Missouri to Louisiana and Mississip­pi were driven from their homes by rivers overflowing near record levels. 
Many highways were awash in floodwaters and many schools closed while tornadoes danced through Dixie and baseball-size hail bombarded Natchez, Miss. 
The storm first hit California with tree-toppling winds and then un· loaded snow up to five fe~t deep across Utah, Colorado and Wyoming, where temperatures have been at record lows all week ­including seven -degrees yesterday morning in Denver and one degree in Cheyenne, Wyo. 
Nolan Duke of the National Weather Service's Severe Storms Forecast Center in Kansas City, Mo., said, "There is no let up in sight that we can see." 
A foot of snow fell overnight in El Paso, Texas, more than the city of 450,000 perched on the Mexican border usually gets in an entire season. The city vinually was closed down, including the airport and the Army's nearby Fort Bliss. Roads were strewn with abandoned cars. 
In neighboring New Mexico, 21 
inches  of  snow  had  fallen  at  
Cloudcroft  by  morning,  with  19  
inches measured at Ruidoso.  

As some residents worked their way around El Paso on skis or snow­mobiles, Mayor jonathan Rogers urged city workers to stay home "unless absolutely necessary." 
A half a foot of wet snow caused many traffic accidents at rush hour in Minnesota's Twin Cities of Min· neapolis and St. Paul. 
About 300 people had been evacuated from their homes along the Illinois River, mostly in Pe,>ri.l, Ill., where the river was six feet above flood stage, and farther south in Grafton, where the river was nine feet above flood stage and the main street through the town of 1,000 was under 1H inches of water. 
Near the Mississippi-Lousiana bor­der northeast of Baton Rouge, La., ten inches of rain fell overnight and about -10 people fled their homes as the Bogue Chitto River climbed as fast as I I feet in six hours. 
The National Weather Service predicted "a flood of major propor­tions" on the the Amite. Comite, and Tickfaw rivers. 

The Observer Thursday, April 7, 1983-page 9 


Friend also arrested 

Handicapped man accused of rape 
BALTIMORE (AP) -A 20-year­old man who has been confined to a wheelchair since a policeman shot him in the spine was accused yester­day of raping~ young woman with the help of a friend. 
James Robinson, 21, the woman's former boyfriend, allegedly helped )a-Wan McGee out ofhis wheelchair and onto on the ground beside the woman, police said. 
The two were charged with first­
degree rape and first-degree sex of­
fense, officers said. 
McGee was being held in lieu of 
S12,000 bail. Bail for Robinson, who 
was on probation for a theft charge, 
was set at S30,000. 
McGee, a black, was paralyzed 
• • • Bread 
continuedfrom page 1 
The purpose of the Bread for the World seminar last night was to in­form students how to work with the organization in conjunction with Notre Dame's World Hunger Coali­tion, said Dietetler. According to the organization's Campus Resource from the waist down in a pizza parlor shooting. Robinson was with McGee that night and was a key witness against the white off-duty detective who did the shooting. 

According to police, the 20-year­old woman met Robinson and McGee on Tuesday night in a park in East Baltimore, and the three went to a secluded area. 
The woman said Robinson and McGee told her they had a gun and a knife and would hurt her ifshe failed to cooperate, police reported. 
Sgt. Mike Bass, a police spokes­
man, said the woman told authori­
ties she was forced to have sex with 
both men. The woman said she 
never saw a weapon, according to 
police. 
Police arrested McGee and Robin­
son early yesterday, Bass said. 
The woman was treated for rape 
and bruises at City Hospitals and 
released, officers said. 
Injuries which paralyze the legs 
do not always affect a man's ability to 
have sex. 
McGee's family has filed a SIS mil­lion civil suit against the city stem­ming from the March 20, 1980, shooting. 
Detective Stephen McCown, who was on his way home from a class at johns Hopkins University that night, testified at an administrative hearing that he believed McGee, then 17, and Robinson were about to rob the pizza parlor. 
An object that McCown saw McGee take from his pocket turned out to be a cigarette lighter. The of­ficer said he thought it was a gun. 
Civil rights groups and a coalition of more than 200 black clergymen protested the shooting, particularly after then prosecutor William Swis­her decided not to press criminal charges against McCown. 
A police administrative review board found the officer had acted improperly, and McCown was dis­missed from the police force. 
In addition to the civil suit, McGee is also appealing ajune deci­sion by the Maryland Criminal In­juries Compensation Board that he was ineligible for financial assistance from the state, said john Enoch, his lawyer in the civil cases. 
The board previously ruled 
McGee eligible for compensation as 
the victim of a crime, but later 
reversed itself. 

Accompanied by his U!ife Audrey, Chicago Republican mayoral candidate Bernard Epton ·waves his baseball cap to the crowd on opening day atChicago's Wrigley Field Tuesday. Rain delayed and then postponed untilyesterday the game between the Cubs and the Montreal Expos. 
Kit, a folder of informational 

""In my job at the First National Bank of Chicago, Iam
pamphlets for interested students, 
constantly using the knowledge acquired through my

Bread for the World works with uni­
paralegal traming at R<Klst"Yeh .. 

versities "to fully integrate public 
PROFESSIONAL 
-.-\Jnl Brill btate.. 1\ db •nd ltusL' t;radu•lt'

policy information and action for hungry people into campus life." 

BUSINESS MANAGERS
jorgensen elaborated on 
LAWYER'S ASSISTANT: 
procedures that students could take 
U.S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in 
to facilitate Bread for the World and 

AGROWTH CAREER 
World Hunger Coalition objectives. 
training programs offering early mana­
Among the ways lu increase aware­
FOR THE SO's 
gerial and technical responsibilities in 
ness of public policies regarding 
Training as a l.a"'")'t'r's Assistant ~·an givt' today's colll'gl· food assistance programs and 
graduat<: a valuahlt' <:dgl' in tht' joh mark<:t. 
one of the following areas: 
related legislation is organizarion of 
Entry·lt'vel positions in tht' Chicago ar<:a pay as much a' events such as a Hunger Awareness 
SIZ,OOO to SI';.()(KJ-and som<: paralt'gals art' now l'arning as much as S.H.O<KJ.
Week, according to the Resource 
Systems Inventory Management, Acquisition Con· 
It tak<:s just thrt't' months ofdaytime: study (six months in thl' Kit. 
tracting, Computer Systems, Financial manage·
c:vening) to prc:parc: for a carc:c:r as a l.awyc:r's Assistant. The:
The kit notes that these endeavors 
program at Roosevelt llnivc:rsity is the: largc:st A.ll.A..approvt'd 
ment. Starting salary of $17,000, rapid advance­
would "increase sensitivity to ~nd 
program in Illinois. and its rc:cortl ofgraduate: c:mploymc:nt 
ment plus Benefits. 'BA/BS degree required or be
assistance: is the hest thc:rc: is. situation." 
knowledge of the world hunger 
within 12 months of graduation from college, B
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL(312) 341·3882 OR MAILTHIS COUPON TODAY! 
average preferred, U.S. citizenship, age limit 30. 
RECRUITER ON CAMPUS APRIL 14ATST. MARY'S COLLEGE 
ROOSEVEIJ' UNIVERSITY 
• • . Ropes 
l.awyc:r's Assistam Program 
430 S. Michigan Ave:.. Chicago. Ill. 6060'; 
CALL TOLL FREE 1·800·382·9782. Or talk to a Navy
-~ 

In t:INlpC:'rauun With nw: ~illltm;iJ ( .c.·nh:r ti•r ~.tr.th.·~l'lr411011l~ 
representative who will be on campus Apr. 12 & 13.
continuedfrom page3 
•

Please send me~ copy of the RtMJse\'eh Lawyer's Assistantl'ro~rllffi c~talo~. 
Iam interested in the ~ Ch1cagu or l__ Mlin~ton Hei~hL~ location
responsibility "to present it to the administration." He added that "while this proposal is only a first 
Adt.lrc.~., 
step, we would like to do something 
(.1(\ 
Zn 
to break down the barriers between 
11om•: Phtml' 
rhliorBarguys and girls. So many guys and 
Approvc:tl fur VA. anti IlL State: ( iuarantt'c:tll.oan' 
girls aren't pursuing normal 
Rot,..,vc:lt l ·mn·rsity Jdmit• all MUdl'nl' on thl' ha.'i' ot tndl\ idual
relationships -the inhibitions that exist are really bad. That's why our 
Vlj · )umon n•Ght
number one thing is to help out the social life on campus." Jokingly, Callaghan specifically 
atS€nJOR~ 
proposed to do his share to alleviate the problem by noting, "I'm 


FROnT GATE 

Sat. apRtl9th
available for most formals and SYR's ... as long as I'm given 2-3 days' notice and there's a dinner in­
EnJOY B€€~ SP€CialS ~0~ a


POSITIOtiS

volved." 
On a more serious note, Callaghan 
~€al tasteo~ next yeaR.
emphasized his willingness to work 
The University has five positions open next 
with the students and that he is one 
year for mature graduate students to serve as 
PRemebs unwtnb ~Rom meattens1on
of their own, "not some guy who lives and dies for student govern­
front-gate security officers. We need students 
BaR op€ns at 9:30 .
ment, but one whose sense ofhumor 
who· are public relations minded and who are 
is his best asset." Callaghan added, 
able to firmly handle the difficult and demanding 
''I'd like to get that across to the 
responsibility of enforcing the traffic regulations
people." 
Applications ate available fot
and giving information to the public at this sen· sitive location. The position pays $2125 per sem· ester and requires 20 hours of work per week.
• • . Arrest 

Senior Bar StaH 
continuedfrom page 5 

Contact the 

Bartenders 
the couple in sexual poses with an unidentified woman and "a 

Director of Security 

Bouncers
transvestite." Yeary said the pictures were taken several years ago when his wife 

and DJ's
before Tues. fipril 12

worked as an exotic dancer. 
The.Y can be picked up in the
After Turner's ruling, Yeary 
claimed he and his wife were being 
Provide Resume 

Student Activities OHice April 7 & 8
persecuted because of their racially 
•m•i•x•e•d•m•a•r•r-ia•g•e•.-----------1-iiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiii.!i.iii.~-~-·-.~.~-~.llliiiiiR.BBilll·················· 

1





Sports =l=l=r=r,=·e~{t.=.~s==============T=hu=r=sd=ay:::;:,A=p=ril=7=,1=9=83==pa=ge=l=O 
By The Ubseruer and The Associated Press 
Women's Bookstore basketballwill hold a mandatorv meeting for all captains on Sunday, April 10 at 4 p.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom. Games will start on Monday. Ifyou have any questions, call Kendra Erven at 283-6885. -The Obseroer. 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team,comingoffa loss over the weekend against C.W. Post College, traveled to Columbus, Ohio last night to take on Midwest Lacrosse Association rival, Ohio State. The results of the game and a preview of the upcoming game with Mt. Union College will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Obseroer 
Larry Gallo'sbaseball team will play host to Bethel Colleg in a doubleheader today at Kline Field. The squad is coming off an excellent Easter break and will try to extend its winning streak to four games. The first halfof the doubleheader is scheduled to begin at 1:30. -The Obseroer 
The men'S tennis team'S match against Val­paraiso that was scheduled for today has been postponed until Sun­day. The next home match for Tom Fallon's squad will be April 16 against Michigan State. -The Obseroer 
Dave Poulin,co-captain of last year's Notre Dame hock­ey team, played his first NHL game over the weekend. Playing for the Philadelphia Flyers, he scored two goals in the Flyers' 4-2 win over Toronto. -The Obseroer 
An Tostal Golf Tournament signups wm be Tuesday, April12 from 6-8 p.m. on the main floor ofLaFortune. Two­person teams will sign up for tee times for the nine-hole scramble tourney which will be on Tuesday ofAn Tostal. -The Observer 
Luther Bradley intercepted Tampa Bay quarterbacks six times in Chicago's 45-3 win Sunday. The former Notre Dame all-American now holds the USFL's record for most interceptions in a game. -The Observer. 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Club will hold a ride 
on Saturday, April 9, at 1:30 p.m. Members should meet at the Lyon's basketball courts. -The Obseroer 
The Saint Mary's Track Team competed over 
the weekend in a meet with Marion College and Goshen College. 
Marion won the meet with a total of94 points while Saint Mary's was 
second with 36. There were a number ofBelles who placed highly in 
their respective events. Lisa Johnston led the team with a first-place 
finish in the high jump. Annette Jsom and Cindy Short also topped 
the field in their events. lsom won the I0,000-meter run while Short 
captured the 800-meter run. Johnston also had a second-place finish 
in the discuss, while teammate KathleenJuckniess was second in the 
15,000 meters. Johnston, Helen Calacci, and Teresa Moriarity 
picked up third-place honors in the 100-meter hurdles, shotput, and 
100-meter sprint, respectively. -The Obseroer 
Water Polotournament continues this week in.the Rockne Memorial pool. Captains are reminded that their S5 fee must be paid or your team will not be allowed in the pool. Money can be placed in an envelope with the team name, and brought to 348 Farley. -The 
Obseroer. 

lnterhall baseball captains have a meeting today in the ACr:: Auditorium at 4:30. Attendance is mandatory. If there are any questions call the NVA office at 239-5100 -The Observer. 
The open handball ladder will be forming soon. Anyone interested in participating should contact Joel Haling at 283-1794 before Monday, April 1 l. -The Observer. 
The ND-SMC Women's GolfTeam is hos­
ting the 1983 Lady Irish Spring Invitational this weekend on the Burke Memorial. The Universities of Evansville, Wisconsin, and Wisconsin-Whitewater are attending. Tee offs are 10 a.m. on Satur­day and 9 a.m. on Sunday. -The Observer 
NHL playoff action continued tast night with a few startling upsets. The Buffalo Sabres pulled off one of the upsets, beating the Montreal Canadiens, l-0, in Montreal. Buffalo leads the series 1-0. St. Louis pulled off the other upset as it defeated the Chicago Black Hawks, 4-2, on Chicago's hoine ice. The defending champion New York Islanders started off toward another Stanley Cup with a 5-2 rout ofWashington. Edmonton and Calgary were the other winners. Edmonton cruised past Winnipeg, 6-3, while the Flames defeated Vancouver, 4-3, in overtime. Action resumes today. 
-AP 

Today's Bookstore pairings 
Yesterday'a Reauha BookstoreS Love and the Shooting Stars 21. The Even Worse Ott 
7 
Todey's Games 

Stepan 1 If We Score.. v. Good Ole Boys (4 00) OneMo· Time v. Shari·s Darlings (4:45) Team #240 v. Statkmg the Wild (5:30) TeqUila White L1ghtmng 3 v. Team #251 (6:15) 
Stepan 2 Short Trash v. We Can Beat You On The Court (4:00) Aspirin Man . v. FIVe Dead Rock Stars .(4:45) Team #242 v. If You Can"! Beat Us ..(5:30) The Ch1cago Cubs of Bookstore v. Team # 143 (6:30) 
Stepan 3 4 B1g Men .v. Team #420 (4:00) Shultsy·s Team v. Team #404 (4 45) Shondell & .v. Foul Ups (5:30 Team #239 v. 5 Alternatives to Dave Popson (6:15) 
Stepen4 Team #159 v. J.B. & Co. (4:00) Chinky F1lip1nos v. T.R.·s (4·45) 
Team #504 v. The Polack & H1s 4 Poles (5:30) Team#122v FourGuysWhO (6:15) 
Stepan 5 Joe Mama v. Th1s Year we·re Not Go1ng to Lose to 4 Guys & a G"'· .. (4:00) Team #409v. Group Nelson. Get Your Flat Head Out 
of Here (4:45) Keenan Tumblers v. The Smok1ng E"s (5:30) Soph1stocatoes v. Bad To The Bone (6:15) 
Stepan& Joe Sagan·s Team v. 5 While Guys. (4:00) The Products v. Chang·s Gang (4:45) Team #243 v. M.C.O.B. II (5:30) Turnball A.C. v That"s Right we·z Bad (6:15) 
BookstoreS Strapameyeron .v. Team #474 (4:00) THOPUPS v. 4 Tytenols & a Cyan1de (4:45) Clinton Core·s Encore v.l The Icemen And The Brew­masters (5:50) 
The Even Less Jacksontess F1ve v. We Eat Meat On Fridays Plus 1 (6:15) 
Bookstore 10 M1ddle Class Rastafanans v. Team #483 (4:00) Coast-to-Coast v. Four Throats & A Real Domer (4:45) F1zzhall Five v. Mrs. T"s P1erog1es (5.30) Last Chance Express v. Happy Team (6:15) 
Lyona11 

S.P.O.S. v. Flynn s Fabulous F1ve (4:00) 4 Jerks v. Chris Needles & Four Other Guys Who Have Never Played a Sport (4:45) Fr. George·s Moustache v. Team #368 (5:30) Sharkey·s Mach1ne v. Pass1on & Romance & Comm1es From Mars (6:15) 
Lyons 12 Mr Inverse v. 5 Good Reasons (4:00) Polar Bear Club v. Team #372 (4.45) Team #117 v Slim Joe Gruber (5:30) Team #123 v. Joe Jakubik & 4 Other Guys ..6·15) 
I Classified office hours: Notre Dame -9 
a.m. to 4:30p.m. Saint Mary's-noon to 3 p.m. Deadline for next-day service is 3 p.m. All ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. We reserve the right to edit objectionable



!Classifieds 
material. 
NOTICES 

TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
Experienced Typ1st. Mrs. Bedford. 288· 2107. Hours Mon. thru Fn. 8 am to 5 pm 
Everyone IS go1ng CUCKOO!!! ··oNE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO"S NEST.·· Apnl7.8.9 
TYPING. Jack1e Boggs, 684-8793. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES CALL 287-5162 
PITTSBURGH CLUB .ELECTIONS'I::~::.Hall Party Room. Fri Apr a. 4·7pm 
I The 88 have never been treated so well j Do 1110 them tomghl! Love. John 
I 
! CPA-sign up for CPR classes in the South Dining Hall tonight from 4:30 ­6:30.
II ················-·············································· i \ LOST/FOUND I 
One helmety creature lost one jacket over the past weekend of ffestlvllles. lt"s a blue and gray JANSPORT coat and it"s not that good. so I know you don"t want to keep the thang. Please 1f you"ve located it, call 283· 7443 or 239-6691 so tt:e owner can rema1n dry during those WdiSI-deep pow­der runs. Reward very negotiable. 
FOUND· A Basketball at Stepan. To cta1m C!'ll 8629. 
LOST: 300 WATT KUSTOM AMPLIFIER. REWARD IF RETURNED. DEFINITELY NO QUESTIONS ASKED. REPLY TO JAY REIDY 239-7668. 
LOST GOLD WATCH--WOMENS On Tuesday. April 5. between 11 15 and 
12:30 I tos111 in e1ther room 119 Haggar Hall, or en route to or 1n ·c· !me--North d1mng hall If you·ve found 11. PLEASE call Leanne at '7753 or '8983. Reward of· tered for tt"s return. Your aHentton regard­lOg thts matter ts deeply apprectated! 
Lost HP 32E calculator somewhere 1n the area of Emil hall on Tues. before Easter. It means more to me than any mere case of (gasp!) Doe! Peps1 If you·ve seen II call the Load at 1 068!!! 
FOR RENT 
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo all ut1ht•es mctuded June or Sept Call 319· 322-8735 Patty 
902 N. NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE. GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON "HEAT. $335/MONTH 684-0933 (LOCAL 
CALL) 

WANTED 
Need someone capable of translating 
Japanese to enough techn1cat docu· 
ments Will pay $15 per page and have 20 
or more pages to be translated Call 237· 
2146 

CLEVELANDERS Need AlDERS to Cleve. area thts weekend! -Pat 38022 
CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM DIRECTORS wanted for private M1ch1gan boys/gtrls summer camps sw1mmmg. canoemg, salltng, skung, sports. nflery, archery. tenms. goll. crafts. camp1ng. gymnastics. calligraphy. dramatiCS. cheertead1ng. gUitar M Seeger. 1765 Maple. Northfield. IL 60093. Send details 
GRAD STUDENT SEEKS SAME FOR ROOMATE·HICKORY VILLAGE.STAATING JUNE/CALL FRED 239·5845 
A SUMMER JOB IN INDPLS MEANS I NEED TO RENT A ROOM FOR THE SUMMER. HELP ME OUT? LUCY '3433 
Wanted: Female Roomate for 83·64 at Campus V1ew Apts Non-Smok.er please Call 234-4250 after 11 00 p.m. 
82 NO graduate (current Northwestern grad student} needs female roommate 10 Evanston IL anyt1me after May. Ideal for another grad student or anyone workmg m Ch1cago Call Rem at (312) 864-8494 or (312) 492·5045 
DRIVING TO SENIOR FORMAL? We need a nde up and back If you·re gotng up on Saturday mornmg. gtve us a call! Ttm (8631) or Joan (6983) 
HELP' I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON THIS WEEKEND (4/8 · 4/10) CALLLYNAT2773 
I FOR SALE1.-------------' 
USED. OUT-OF-PAINT BOOKS BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED. ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY· 
JEFFERSON INTERSECTION House tor sale, Untverstty Hetghts, 3 bedrooms. $12.000 total tmmed1ate Terms 319-3228735. Pat 

13·· COLOR TV 277·8534 AFTER 6 
First class round trip ticket to anywhere United Illes. You can fly home and to somewhere else (Hawaii I) over the summer lor one cheap price. Call Leon 6740. 
PERSONALS 
St. Edward· s Hall 
Presents 
ONE FLEW OVER 
THE 
CllCKOO"S NEST .. 
April7.8.9 
BPM 
Washington Hall 
Adm1ss•on $1 00 
Paul Mcintyre is a Basketball Stud 1111 
EARN $5000 thiS summer pa1n11ng houses tn your hometown. Contact Place­ment OH--e lor more Info and application 
at Room 213. Adm Bldg 
Do you need a ride to BOSTON? Leav1ng on April 15 and return1ng 9n April 19 Call John at1207 
BETH. I KNOW HOW EXCITED A GIRL. OR GUY. CAN GET AFTER SEEING OD IN 
THE BUFF. BUT DON"T WORRY BE­CAUSE SOX IS STILL AROUND AND THERE S MORE THAN ENOUGH TIME TO JUMP HIS BONES TAKE MY ADVICE. BETH. STAY OUT OF THE BAAS ANNO CONCENTRATE ON YOUR ONE TRUE LOVE. SOX April 12th-Lake Brian Burt Day 
APEX ROCKS 
ONEMO TIME DON"T BE SAYIN THAT I"M SUPPIN WITH MEN FROM ZAHM. I"LL BE ON YOUR SIDE THIS AFTEERNOON HOPE YOU A TLEAST SCORE. AND IF YOU"AE REAL GOOD. I"LL GIVE YOU SOME WHEN IT"S OVER 
APEX ROCKS 
APEX ROCKS FLANNER HALL PUB FAt NITE FROM 10 TIL 2 BE THERE! 
Interested tn workmg and hvmg 1n Cape Cod or Jersey thts summer? We are took1ng tor others to help find and share a summer apartment or house. Call Martha '1514 or L1bby and Nancy '2963 1f you hnve mto or are tnterested. 
WANTED: 
Extenor frame back packs Do you have one you would hke to sell? Maybe two or three? Call Jeb. J1m. or Ed al8641 Thank you. 
THE AMERICAN DREAM ScholaStiC IS looktng tor talented sentor wnters and photographers who would like to get publlst•ed tn the upcomtng ts~ue. become tnstantly tamous. and hve happtly ever af­ter Call the off1ce at 239-7569 or J1m at 1082. Deadl1ne Tuesday. 12 April 
PITTSBURGH CLUB ELECTIONS! Grace Hall Party Room. Fri Apr 8.4-?pm 
PIEROGIES 
PIEAOGIES 
PtEROGtES See MRS. T"s PIEAOGIES take the courts for the f"st 11me EVER!!!I! Bookstore 10. 5·3(1. TODAY!' BE THERE!!!II 

desperately need ride to and from MIL· WAUKEE THIS WEEKEND please call she•la 2911 
LYNN. 
BREAK A LEG! LOVE. HEIDI & TIM 

Kathy. The 88 have never been treated so well Do 1tto them tonlle! 
Love. John 

CPR~ Sign up for CPR classes in the South Dining Hall tonight from 4:30­6:30. 
Rtcco-N C. State may have ·slammed Ph1 Slama Jama. but you sttll owe me dm­ner!!! 
hungry like the wolf( pack) 

Thursday dnd Fr.day. April 7th and 8th. BADIN FOODSALES w11i be OPEN from 4 00 to 6 30. BOOKSTORE B·BALL"' HOURS! Any and all ounqry spectators are welcome 
Cavanaugh Hall Presents HARVEY 8 p.m.· April 7.8.9 ChautauQua Ballroom 
Free ~dmtsston 

Donations w111 go to Andy Sowder Fund 
Wayne. Thanks so much tor the roses! They realty brightened up ony day! 
Megan P S. I had a great Easter" 

Q Is John HinCkley really go1ng to be at Keenan lhts SaturrJay mte? A Sure. ne and all kmds of hero figures are! 

--------~ 

The Observer Thursday, April 7, 1983-page 11 
... Fullback 
continuedfrompage 16 
complement their inside power games with good speed to the outside. 
Both have displayed flashes of brilliance in their first two years. Smith gained 61 yards in only eight carries in his very first game in a Notre Dame uniform against LSU. Two weeks later he scored his first Notre Dame touchdown as a tail­back in place ofPhil Carter and Greg Bell in a 15-14 loss to Purdue. As a result of having to play behind talents like Carter and Bell, though, Smith carried the ball only eight more times in 1981. 
Thus, with Carter and Bell return­ing again for 1982, along with a freshman prospect named Pinkett coming in for the fall at tailback, Smith requested that he be moved to linebacker to help out the team. In the first half ofthe season, he was the backup to weakside linebacker Mike Larkin. Then he asked to be moved to fullback. 
Brooks rotated in his freshman year with Moriarty and John Sweeney at the fullback spot. He ran the ball 24 times for 126 yards while scoring a touchdown. Last year he served as a backup to Moriarty and started his first game against Arizona when Moriarty was out with an in­jury. 
Like Smith, Brooks admits that 
accepting his new role at Notre 
Dame was quite difficult at first, but 
he sees the benefits it reaps now. 
"I like to carry the ball a lot," ex­plains Brooks, who carried it 493 times for 2,776 yards at Moeller. " My duty here so far, though, has been to block. It was a tough adjust­ment since I wasn't used to blocking that much at all when I came here, but it has helped make me a more complete player and given me more confidence." .. 
The most amazing thing about Brooks and Smith has nothing to do with statistics. It is the way they view their current competition that is a credit to their attitudes and an asset to the team. When two such talented athletes compete for the same position, something usually has to give and frequently the result is team disunity, talks of transfer, or the old silent treatment. 
This is not the case in this situa· tion, though. 
Best offriends on and off the field, the two are not competing against each other but for each other. 
"It's really a lot of fun in practice 
knowing that we can give advice and 
help each other out in any way we 
can," says Brooks. "We really look af. 
ter each other so that we can both be the best we possibly can be. 
"I have to take a back seat to the efforts of what the team wants and strives for -a national champion­ship. I just want to blend in to what the team wants, not vice versa." 
"This moving from position to position in my career was for the purpose of benefitting the team as a whole at that time," says Smith. "I just want to contribute for the best 
• ofthe team. Ifthat means playing the whole quarter, or just a minute, fine." 
For two years the dynamic one· two punch has engaged in mostly dress rehearsals. The curtain call comes this fall. 

REMEMBER 

Yearbook Senior Portraits!! 
April 5 to April 22 9:30 · 1 and 2 · 5:00 

YOU CAN STILL SIGN UP FOR YOUR PORTRAIT BY CALLING 239·5183 NOW!! 
Sittings: Traditional $5.00 Contemporary $8.15 

Please pay by Check or bring Exact Change •.. THANKS!!! 
Corby's 
Thursday Happy Hour 3-7 
Senior Formal Informal 
Margaritas $1.00 Heinenken draft $1.00 
Friday Happy Hour 3-7 Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 Bud draft soe 
.. 


OLD MILLER 
MILWAUKEE 


LITE 
149 
CAli Of
5~ 24CUS 
~--·-·";.__.. HAMM'S 599 PRICESGOODTHRU
=--SAT., APRIL 9th _ CASE OF 24 CANS 

IXCIPT ON SALI 

Mix &Match Liquor &Wine Cases 10% DISCOUNT ITEMS 
LIQUOR 
KINGS CELLAR VODKA OR GIN AlUNITE1llll 
1" 
CARLO 
•a.•IO-• ROSSIHinl 
4" 

499 GALLOMETAXA OUZO lllll
SMIRNOFF VODKA IIIII 
2"

PREMIUM lllln•
LEROUX "'899 POLISH BLACKBERRY 599 ANDREPHILADELPHIA BLEND ""' BRANDY lllll CHAMPAGNES 11111 221 DEMI·TASSE COFFH 16" I. ROGEl
CANADIAN MIST11Hm• 1 099 CREAM LIQUEUhut 221
SPUMANTE IIIII
499 3"
CASTILLO RUM IIIII GRAND MUNIER 1lnl 1699 PAUL MASSON JIM BUM HIRAM WALKER LIGHT 1.5 LITER
499
I 

BOURBON 11111 PEPPERMINT 4" 
299

499 SCHNAPPS lilll PREMIAT WINES lllll
SEAGRAMS GIN IIIII 599 ~~~~1. NORTHCOAST 
299
AMARETTO 11111

JAMESON ._;;;::.;;;;.:,;,;.._,• WINES 1llll 
IRISH WHISKEY Ill It 799 
299
AMARETTO COGNAC IIIII 

CANU-WINES 11111CAPTAIN MORGAN 
GREEN CREME

SPICED RUM !lilt 499 INGLENOOK NAVALLE
DE MENTHE 11111 
399

PASSPORT TlBlE WINES mn11 
SCOTCH IIIII 499SLOE GIN IIIII ALMADENARANDAS MOUNTAINTEQUILA Ill II 499
TRIPLE SEC1llll WINESL!lllll 

1621 SOUTH BEND AVE NO's CLOSEST 
QUARTS LIQUOR STORE STROHS ....... . . . 8.99 PABST......... . . . 8.09 OLD MILWAUKEE . 7.99 
STOP BY OUR SOUTH BEND AVENiiE
BUDWEISER..... . 9.59 
STORE AND MEET CRAIG JACKSON MANAGER 233-4603 



KEGS 
PABST......... . . . 29.99 GENERIC LITE ... . 21.99 OLD MILWAUKEE .... 28.99 MICHELOB...•. . 35.99 BUDWEISER ..... . . 33.99 PABST 1f4 barrels 17.99 


DAILY TRIPLE 
.,_ 

THURSDAY ONLY FRIDAY OIILY SATUIDAY ONLY 4-7-83 ·~.a 4.f.l3 
PABST MILLER~ OLD 
MILWAUKEE~ 
~

5 9C~E I. . 699 ~ 549 ' 
CASE ~ : WE 
, -~-::... 

FIIDAYOIILY 
·~.a 
SORIA
KELLER 
ASTI
GEISTER 

SPUMANT£ 
19 9

~m 3!11 

SOUTHBENDAVESTORE ONLY 
., 

-~---~--~---~-­
F 
The Observer Thursday, April 7, 1983-page 12 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
.­

Publicity Department 
NEEDS ENTHUSIASTIC, HARDWORKING 
• 
ADMINISTRATORS 

• 
POSTER HANGERS($) •ARTISTS 


For the next year· No experience necessary 
_,. 
I 
l ~ 
I* 
* 


Ihe ObserYet: 
is accepting applications for the positions of 
*Copy Editor and *Assistant News Editor. 
******************* 
Deadline for submissions is 4111183. 

'* * 
~ 

Student Union 
Contact Ann at S.U. 239-7605 
WANT TO FLY? 

..CJ'Qoweh~ fph oQQ OCCO~lO"~ ~' 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354 


mt IKnigltts oftlTt Q!astlt
I -Haircut Shampoo Blowdry & Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon Haircut only $6 with coupo~
54533 Terrace Lane, South Bend (Across from 

(Hair must be washed day of cut)
Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 

272-0312 277-1691
SAT. 8:30-5:30 

($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 




EASY RIDER 
... Tennis 
conti.-,uedfrompage 16 
Gandy, 7-5, 6-2, and Spengler topped off NUs day with a 6-0, 6-4 win over Camille Cooper. 
The match was played indoors in 
the North Dome, and took over five 
hours to complete. 
"When you can't get on all the singles at one time, the match drags for a while," said Petro, who had to leave the match early because of a recruiting trip. "Instead of being three hours long, the afternoon lasts for five hours." 
The women's tennis squad, the only Division II team left at the Uni­versity, fell to 2-4, mainly against a Division I schedule. 
"I think playing teams (like Northwestern) will pay off in the long run, whatever the outcome," says Petro. "You just won't see the dividends until the tournament." 
... Fame 
continuedfrom page 16 
play m next year's Hall of Fame game. Dziedzic's reply was, "We'll see ..." 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -Today's top attractions appear to be Tequila White Lightning vs. Team #25I at 
6: IS on Stepan I and the Even-less Jacksonless Five vs. We Eat Meat on Fridays Plus I at 6: I5 on Bookstore 
9. Tequila White Lightning was a Finali6 team two years ago and the Even-Iessjacksonless Five are led by Assistant Basketball Coach Jim Baron . . . . Commissioner Dziedzic stresses the importance of each team having a sixth person there to assist the scorekeeper. 
If your goal is to become a professional, you owe it to yourself not to overlook any opportunities that will help you reach that goaL THE NAVY PILOT (20/20 vision is required) is the finest in the world, flying a variety of soph­isticated high performance aircraft. THE NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER (vision correctible to 20/20) is the quarter­back of the Naval Aviation Team with wide-ranging expertise from state-of-the-art Data Processing to Master Tacti­cian. If you are a college graduate, or are within three years of graduation, wanting to get your feet off the ground and earn over $27,000 a year within four years and attend the world's most prestigious flight school, contact or mail your resume to: 
575 N. Pennsylvania St. Office 646, Indianapolis, IN 46204
NAVAL AVIATION 1-800-382-3782 
~-----r·~-----~­

The Observer Thursday, April 7, 1983 -page 13 
Clubs are busy as year nears end 
Rivalry is an essential element in club sports as it is in 
varsity sports. It promotes a team spirit even stronger 
than usual. Notre Dame's rivalry with teams like Michi­
gan, Southern Cal, Penn State, and UCLA, has traditional­
ly captured the imaginations of sports fans across the 
country. This weekend, many of Notre Dame's club 
sports faced some of their fiercest rivals. 
RUGBY-Notre Dame's Rugby Club won two ofthe three games it played this weekend against Ohio State. This weekend's match marked the first meeting be­tween the two teams in several years. 
The B and C teams defeated the Buckeyes 8-4 and 18-0, respectively, while the A team dropped its game to the Buckeyes 3-6. Notre Dame's loss to Ohio State in the A game caused the Irish to lose possession of the Cantwell Cup which is awarded to the winner of the A game. 
The president of the Rugby Club, Sean Sullivan, believes the team played well despite adverse field con­ditions. The game also pointed out a few of the team's weaknesses. 
Next weekend, the Irish will play Lincoln Park Uni­
versity in Chicago. "Lincoln Park is not one ofthe better 
clubs in Chicago so I think we will beat them," predicts 
Sullivan. 
SOFTBALL -At the end ofthe fourth inning ofTues­day's opener against the Saint Mary's varsity team, the game was called because of "April showers." The Irish were leading at the time, 14-9. The game was Notre Dame's first ofthe season and, if it were not for the poor weather conditions, the Irish might have claimed their first victory. 
"We wanted to play another inning, but the field was 
unplayable and it was drizzling the whole time," said 
Club President Chris Callahan. 
Last season, the Irish won three of the four games they played against Saint Mary's and will attempt to res­chedule the game for sometime later this season. "It's frustrating." commented Callahan, "because we really can't call it a win." 
Today, the Irish will host Saint Francis College at 3 
p.m. 
SAD.ING -Last weekend, the Notre Dame sailing club traveled to Miami University of Ohio to capture third place behind Ohio Wesleyan and Miami. The club president,J.B. Kuppe, was pleased with the outcome of this weekend's regatta since Miami and Ohio Wesleyan are ranked amoung the top 15 sailing clubs in the na­tion. Kuppe was also pleased with the consistency of this year's sailors. 
Next weekend, the Irish will compete in a regatta at 
Marquette University. Kuppe anticipates a strong finish 
at the regatta because the freshman sailors will accom­
pany the club on the trip. "All we have to do now is get 
our freshmen pumped about the rest ofthe regattas and 
we will do well this season," he commented. 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL -On Saturday, the men's vol­leyball team will travel to Bowling Green, Ohio to com­pete in the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association's championship tournament. The club president, Clark Gibson, expects to win the tournament since the Irish have defeated all the other teams competing in the tournament at least once. 

Mary Sieger 
Sports Writer 
Club Corner 


The Irish are 55-17 this season and are ranked in first place in the league: Gibson believes the Irish are well prepared for the tournament and that "this is the year for a league championship." 
GYMNASTICS -The Notre Dame gymnastics team will travel to Purdue University on Saturday to compete in its last meet of the season. The men's team is 3-4 this season while the women's team holds a 6-5 record. Scott Fortman, the club president, describes the rivalry between Purdue and Notre Dame as "friendly," despite the men's loss to Purdue in their last meet by a fraction ofa point. 
Fortman is optimistic that the women's team will 
defeat Purdue this weekend but anticipates a close con­
test between the men's teams. "I think we can beat both 
teams, but the race is going to be on the men's team," he 
said. 
ROWING -The Rowing Club's meet which was scheduled for this Saturday was changed to Sunday due to a conflict with the MCAT exams. On Sunday, the Irish will host the University ofChicago, Northwestern Uni­versity, and Lincoln Park University. Notre Dame will encounter its toughest competition from Lincoln Park who holds last year's club championship title. 
Jim Feider, Club President, believes Sunday's meet will indicate how the Irish will fare for the remainder of the season. "Right now, the whole team is strong and no one crew stands out at this time," said Feider. "We should have a better indication after Sunday's meet." 
WOMEN'S TRACK -Notre Dame's women's track 
team will travel to Hope College on Saturday for its 
second meet of the season. Club president, Rose Marie 
Luking, expects to do well at the meet and believes that 
her runners will be competative against Hope. 
The track team has been seriously affected by injuries 
this season and will be missing a number of runners. If 
the injured runners return to complete the season, 
Luking is confident that the squad will perform well 
during the final two meets of the year. 


An Tostal 
AN TOSTAL INNER TUBE WATER POLO 
Yesterday's Results Danny Mo'sGot No Lady Game 10, Boatman and the Better Bass6 Dry Dreams 13, Merwyn's 1-Spy Guys 3 The Jetsons 7, But We Can't Touch the Bottom 6 The Hoos1er Boober Tubers 5, Salt·Lakers 2 
Today's Games F1ghllng P~ranhas 66 vs. S1mon and H1s .. 6 p.m. Aqua Rastas vs. F1ve Guys an·d Two Wet Ch1cks. 630 p.m. F1ght1ng P1ranhas vs. SuNam1·s, 7 p.m. Far S1de vs. Bad Form. 7·30 p.m. 

THE WHITE CENTER FOR LAW AND GOVERNMENT ANNOUNCES 

"The Role of Political Action Committees in the American Political Process'' 
Terry Dolan, National Chairman of NCPAC Fred Wertheimer, President of Common Cause 
Friday April 8 Room 101 The Law School 
j 

·· •'·"" ""'--RP"-$7.W4-.W,w....~~~~4fu.-¥u~---d41WW-""'!C 

Tht' Observer/Hamil Cupero 

Keith Marrero ofLove and the Shooting Stars goes up for a dunk in his team's easy 2 I -7 victory over The Even Worse Off in the Bookstore Hall ofFame game. The game was highlighted by some humorous antics by the losers. The main competition begins today. 
Attention COTH Majors & Intended Majors!!! 
Preregistration for ALL Majors and intended majors will take place in the loft of O'Shag Hall on Monday April11, Tuesday April12, & Wednesday Apri113. Please make an appointment with your advisor for counseling BEFORE registering for classes. 

H.D.S.U. 

Concert Commission 
is looking for next year's 
Assistants 
Submit a one page application to the Student Union by Wednesday midnight. 
.. 
NAME 
ADDRCSS 

CITY ______STATE__ZIP 
Mad To· 

JOHN CARROLL UNIVERSITY 
Director of Summer Sessions University Heights Cleveland, Ohio 44118 OR CALL (216) 49~ 4318 
-~---~------------------~-------------··--...__...... --~----~---------·---~­
The Observer Thursday, April 7, 1983 -page 14 
I r 
I 
,-· 

Special Rates 
Summer 




STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 

• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2Y2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 •GATESOPENALLDAYSUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
Dziabis pulls hamstring 

Irish beat weather, win two relays 
By DEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

If Dick Addis had been in Cape Giradeau, Mo., last weekend with the Notre Dame track team, he would have been at a loss for one weather word. A few would have. come to mind, such as cold, windy, and wet. 
The track team traveled to the 
campus of Southeast Missouri to 
compete in the S.E. Motion Relays. 
Despite the poor conditions and in­
juries to key individuals, the Irish 
gave a tint: performance. 

Led by Co-captain Jim Moyar. the 
'-l by 1600 meter relay team 
captured t1rst place. Moyar, a senior 
from Downers Grove, Ill., ran the first leg in a blazing 4: I I to pave the way for teammates Jim Tyler, Tim Cannon, and Andy Oillon, each of whom t1nished strong to outdis­tance the field by 20 seconds. 
The other Note Dame victory came in the 4 by 800 meter relay. Paced by All-American Steve Dziabis and freshman John McNelis, Notre Dame set a track record with a time 
-of 7:32.6. Tyler and Moyar also turned in sparkling performances in that event. 
Because of the weather, results were sub-par. This was most evident in the II 0-meter high hurdles. Miguel Williams of Middle Tennes­see holds the nation's fastest time this year in that event, but he could only muster a time of 14.3, one-



Good friends will help you study angles when all you can think about is curves. 
It didn't take a genius to tell your mind wasn't on your studies. But it did take a couple of smart roomies to do something about it. 
So out came the calculators. And the doughnuts. And they started drilling you until you knew physics as well as 
you know yourself. When it was all over, you 
showed them that there was one more thing you knew something about-gratitude. 
Tonight. let it be Lowenbriiu. 
Lowenbrau. Here's to good friends. 
' 1983 Beer Brewed 1n US A by M1ller Brew<ng Co Milwaukee WI 
tenth of a second ahead of third­
place finisher John McCloughan, a 
Notre Dame graduate student. 
Van Pearcy. Jan Kania. Dziabis. 
and Tyler, sometimes called the 
Sprint Medley team. fared well in the 
adverse conditions, placing fourth in 
3:30.6. In the open I500-meter run, sophomore Tim Cannon ran a 3:54.1 to finish third. Teammate Ralph Caron finished sixth in the same race. 
In the field events. Notre Dame 
also made a good showing. Sopho­
more James Patterson gave a super­
lative effort on his final jump to 
place second in the long jump. 
Chuck Constable high jumped six­
foot-eight inches to tie for third place and Charlie Brady hurled the javelin 174 feet which was good for sixth place. 
In the '! by .too, Notre Dame and Dziabis dodged a bullet. The relay team was headed for an easy victory when Dziabis had to step off the track. The co-captain, who has a his­tory of leg problems, had felt a twinge in his hamstring. 
Coach Joe Piane wa~ not sure 
whether the injury wa~ a pull or scar 
tissue fom a previous injury tearing. 
Nevertheles~. Dziabis will not com­
plete in this weekend's Midwest 
Catholic Championships. He is ex­
pected to he back for next week·~ In­
diana State Championships. 
Freshman hurdler Dean Mcfarlane also suffered a leg injury, causing him to he scratched from the 4 by 110 shuttle hurdle relay. Freshman John Gleason did an ad­mirable job hlhng in at the last minute, helping the relay team to a 
sixth place finish. 

Hurricanes 
•

arrive a bit early 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports Wr.ita 
The latest change involving the Notre Dame football team does not involve any per~onnd, instead it pertains to the 19H:' Irish schedule. 
The originallv M:hnlulcd Nov. 26 game with the Hurricanes of Miami in the Orange 80\vl has been moved ahead eight weeks to Sept. 2-i. The reason? What dsc? ~ational televi­sion. Thi~ time its CBS's wrn to alter the Irish schedule. 
Not only is there a date shift. but a time ~lot change as well. CBS has switched the game to Saturday eve­ning instead of the afternoon so that it can draw a larger audience. 
Notre Dame head coach (rerry Faust does not seem to mind. however. 
"We're not displeased with the change." said Faust. "It puts u~ in a situation where we play 11 straight games again, but it moves the game back into September where we think it has some advantages for us. 
"You worrv about the heat down there at that time of year. But what we like about it is that we were going to have to play Miami in the last week and they would have two bves out of three weeks. It would h~ve given them two or three weeks to prepare for u~ whereas we would have had to play them straight through." 
The last game ofthe year will now he against Air Force on ~ov. 19. The game, at Notre Dame. will be the llrst time the team has closed a season at home since 1969. This too pleases Faust who. no doubt, would like to get even with the Falcons. 
.... 


Ihe_~======================================= 
1



~~4t1lC)l~===========================
=T=h=ur=s=da=y='=A=pr=il=7='=1=9=83===p=a=g=e=1=5 
Bloom County 
YOU CAN S10P1H( 
"lUCK UN£~ Ml~~ 


Simon 
1 !155Utt THE 80f!R0 Tllf1T Ttl£ STI/Nfot:O­F/lfflf.Y 5W!TC/I !5 TilE BEsT VEf fM EVEr?YOIIE 
TOWiJtiOS {(;·ED DW£Ll/,1J6. 

Fate 

You. wR.oTE ruE £Nil~( Pf\9£(\ \ASIN~ A OCD~tnV£ HtTHOQ 


I. SPWFICALL'f SAID YOU 
W£(£ TO lASE" AN 
INDlACflVE HHHOD 
) 


The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 417183 All Rights Reserved 
---thuRsbay nJqht--­

SIR, Tift wot?EN C:f FliRLEY fiRE. NoT STUP;D. Tfi£Y lfE!1UcE Tit£ YI/LUE OF 
ntiS Of'PoRTUNI!Y !10!?E ~ TIII}N !lNVONE.1 
[ F.-!-) / 
~'"'..o-R 
MY HANDS Atr TIED. I WILL HAVE TO FLUNK 
YOU, I CAN SEE NO Ofl1£R. ALTERNATIVE 
I 
35 Installment 
story 37 Wood sorrel 39 Callit­40 NL stadium 43 "I cannot 
tell-" 44 Soldier's 
address 45 Postiche 46 Equals 48 Gold:Sp. 50 Power 
units 51 Likely 53 Favorite 55 Small 
cavity 59 Settle in a new place 64 West Coast attraction 

Jn honoR o~ th€ Colleqtat€Jazz festtval 
CJ~ ntqht atS€nJOR&R 
f.EatuRtnq th€notR€ Oam€)3.ZZ Banb t-ShtRts anb ttck€ts on sal€ 
Berke Breathed
.. ' ,, 

NUK£5. 
YA CAN'T UVC: WfTH 'f,M ... YA CANT L.IV£ 11/ITHOVT 'EM . 
I 

Photius 
PROFt:SSO(, WHY OON 'T VOlA 11ASf ReAP THF 
PAPER. EPlK.klA~D~? 
\ 


66 Indian 

princess 67 Asian land 681n­
(samely) 69 Butterine 70 Time 
periods 71 Golfball pegs 
DOWN 1 Catch the breath 
2 Gelling 
agent 3 Yes­4 Attic 5 Raised 
platform 6 Forty·­
acronym 

25 Norman Vincent­26 Golfer 
Palmer 27 Apple drink 29 Revolving 
motor part 31 Portion of 
New Guinea 32 Accommodate 33 Insertion 
mark . 34 Small 
children 36 Meadow 38 Perform 41 Allow as a 
handicap 42 Fawn 47 Auction 49 Beginning 52 Self· 
assured 54 Lanchester and Maxwell 55 Certain hairdo 56 Iranian money 
57 Thrall of yore 58 Glenn's 
state 59-avis 60 Glibtalk 61 Swiss river 62 Factual 63 Newts 65 One of the 
3 stooges 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 

16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS News 
28 ABC's World News Tonight 
34 Making It Count -16 MASH 
22 Laverne and Shirley 
28 Joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Repon 
16 All in the Family 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight ·Talk 
16 Fame 
22 Magnum, PI 
28 Condo 
M All Creatures Great and Small 
28 Amanda's 
16 Gimme A Break 
22 Simon and Simon 
28 Too Close for Comfon 
34 Mystery 
16 Cheers 
28 It Takes Two 
16 Hill Street Blues 
22 Tucker's Witch 
28 20/20 
M I Claudius 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Indiana Lawmakers 
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy and McCloud  
28  ABC News Nightline  



The Far Side 
Chr)n,.r,.l •••,r•sl\ffll,·~ 


'~·­

-


ll!or Bftc,Tc1fE 
~ Bar NITE 
OPEHS AT 9:30 SHARP!! 
. 

Senior Bar Lunches 11 :00 • 1 :00 every Thursday & Friday till graduationI 
Campus 
•1 
p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs. Bethel College, Jake Kline Field 

• 
3 · 5 p.m. -AnTostal Ulthnate Frisbee Sign· ups, South Alcove of Lafortune 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Aerosal Formation and Growth by Chemical Reaction," Prof. John]. Sein­field, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting of the Pre Law Society, Library Auditorium 

•7 
and 10:15 p.m. -Film, "Tora, Tora, Tora," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NDSU, 51 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," St. Ed's Theatre, Washington Hall 

•8 
p.m.-ND/ SMC Reader's Theatre, "As I Lay Dying," Little Theatre 

•8:30 
p.m. -Piano Recital, Kathy Erickson, 115 Crowley Hall of Music 

•9 
p.m. -Memorial Mass, for Lisa Ditmyer, Fr. Hesberg will celebrate, Pasquerilla West 



T.V. Tonight 

• 
• 
... 


Thursday, April 7, 1983 -page 16


S~orts 
Chris Smith, Mark Brooks 
Bigchancehasarrivedforfriends 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI phrases such as "unlimited poten­in by a school in a single year. 
Sports Writer tial," "has all the tools," and "loaded Brooks was the I980 Ohio Class with talent," have been used AAA Player ofthe Year as he ledGer­For two years now, sophomore repeatedly to describe them. ry Faust's final edition at Moeller • fullbacks Mark Brooks and Chris High to the state championship. He 
Smith have been anxiously waiting. was rankeu as the No. I freshman With the completion of Larry backfield prospect by Parade
Spring Football 
Moriarty's career at Notre Dame, the Magazine foe 19tH -an honor be­duo now have the chance this spring stowed upon Eric Dickerson in
'83

and fall to finally fully display the 1979, Herschel Walker in I9HO. and talents that h:ft recruiters through­Marcus DuPree in I9H2. out the nation in awe two years ago. They were thought to be the Smith was another Parade All­
Ever since the two Cincinnati major gems of what was described America who starred as a fullback natives stepped onto the Notre by some sources as the greatest ar­and linebacker at LaSalle High Dame campus in the fall of 198I, ray of football recruits ever hauled School in Cincinnati. At times he ac­tually raised more eyebrows than even Brooks as a top backfield prospect. Joe Terranova, considered
Women fall to NU's 
the top scout of high-school talent, was so impressed by Smith that he stated that he "may be the only player in America to compare favorably with Herschel ("My body By MIKE RICCARDI Gandy beat Cathy Schnell and Lisa is like an army") Walker from a pure 
powerful tennis team 
... 
Sports Editor· Gleason, 6-4 and 6-0. strength standpoint." LaFratta and Lee held a 5-4 edge in Brooks, at 6-3, 228-lb., and Smith, Sharon Petro's Notre Dame the second set on the 'Cats pair, but at 6-2, 228-lb., possess the classic 
women's tennis team knew what it Rosen and Brightfield broke the rock solid and statuesque build for a was in for when it scheduled Irish women's service to win in fullback. Both contain about as Mark Brooks (35) and Chris Smith (32}, shown here lookingfor Northwestern University. And it was straight sets. much fat in their bol:ly as Donny and an elusive ball, are now looking for the starting fullback spot. 
-not let down as the Wildcats, ranked The tough loss set the tone for the Marie Osmond contain yellow in However, the two goodfriends are competing against each other to No. 6 in the country, defeated the afternoon as Notre Dame was able to their teeth. The two can also see who will succeed Larry Moriarty. There is no rivalry between Irish women, 8-1, under the North win only one of six singles matches. the two, though, as they give each otheradvice. For more details, see Dome of the ACC In the first set of three matches on see FULLBACK, page 11 Louie Somogyi's story at left. 
"We look forward to matches like the indoor courts, Susie Panther these," said Petro. "It gives us a defeated Tina Oechsle in a nip-and­chance to see how we stack up tuck battle, 7-5, 2-6, and 6-4. The 
Hall ofFame game 
against the big names -and in Panther-Oeschsle match was one of Northwestern, we faced some pretty only two three-setters on the day. good players." In the other close match, No. 1 
Bookstore opens with a blessing 
The 'Cats established their singles player Mary Colligan took dominance early, whipping the Irish Lord to a third set after winning a ByJEFF BLUMB It was now two mi~utes before burgh had attended sinct> he in all three doubles matches. NU's second-set tie-breaker, but lost, 2-6, Sports Writer game time and the reality of having watched Gerry Faust's team play Maeve Quinlan and Courtney Lord 7-6, and 5-7. to play Love and the Shooting Stars two years ago in the Irish coach's took Mary ~olligan and Pam Fis­Rosen beat No. 2 LaFratta, 6-2 and The trampoline had just been put was quickly approaching. first year at Notre Dame. chette, 6-4 and 6-3, Randi Rosen and 6-0, Quinlan took Lee in two difficult off to the side and the show ap­Then, who should arrive but Cornett had also written to Irish Cindy Brightfield bettered ND's sets, 7-5, 6-4, No. 4 Fischette lost to peared to be over. "Are you ready to Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., basketball coach Digger Phelps ask­Laura Lee and Lisa LaFratta, 6-2, 7-5, get killed now?" one of them joking­for a pre-game Latin blessing? ing him to be their coach. Phelps, 
see TENNIS, page 12

and Caroline Spengler and Kim ly asked the others. Still, there was a game to be unfortunately, could not make it be­played. The Even Worse Off would· cause he was at the NCAA Finals in 11ave to take the court to play in the Albuquerque. Second annual Hall of Fame game The game was fun for all, especial­that would open Bookstore XII. ly the crowd ofabout 250 assembled 
As was expected, The Even Worse around Bookstore court 9.
Baseball returns, strong as ever 
Off lost to the highly-favored Love "I had more fun tonight than I had and the Shooting Stars. But before all (Irish varsity) season," said Love. falling 2I-7 to the team led by Irish "I think that it (The Even Worse
Take me out to the ball game, take me out wttb the 

Mike Sullivan varsity forward Karl Love, The Even Offs sideshow) made it a little more
crowd ... 
Worse Off put on a show to be exciting, especially for them."
Assistant Sports Editor 

remembered by many for a long The Even Worse Off worked on
Let's take a look at the calendar. time. many ideas for the game. "We
The hockey season is into the playoffs. In other At around 6:05, a blue limousine wanted to make it memorable," said
words, we now get to see the real season -minus five drove up to Bookstore court 9 and Cornett.
pathetic teams. 
., 
The NBA is also getting ready for the playoffs. The big took a nap for a couple of months. Last year, the year pulled out to center court. Out "And we scored more points this stepped a driver who then rolled out year than we did last year," added
race isn't for the last playoff spot, though. It's for the after the strike, the attendance records were broken a red carpet from the car's passenger
worst record. Do you think that may say something again. Augustin. about the league. All the arguments about crowd size were wrong, too. door. One by one, they stepped out Then we have football. Football? Oh, that's right. Think about it. Most football teams sell out every home amidst assorted cheers, high fives, George Allen's team is·supposed to win the league easi­game (well, at least we can imagine it) -all eight of and clapping. 
Bookstore XH. 
ly. them. Each game is one ofonly I6, so it is very impor­The members ofThe Even Worse Wait a second! What's this in the air? The smell of tant. Most baseball teams average at least 18,000-Offhad arrived -and in grand style. rawhide and rosin. 20,000 fans per game. That many people for one of 8I A small trampoline, borrowed Ah, baseball. America's Pastime. I thought the season home games. To see one game ofa I62-game season. from the gymnastics team, quickly never would begin. The television argument doesn't work too well was set up a few feet from the basket. 01 "{ih.: L\o\..H '" v•:n.... \..Jll. p011)l~, I remember my first baseball game. It was back in '68 either. More people watch a single football game than a After a brief dunking exhibition by Cornett, Augustin and Snyder each had two. Augustin pulled down two
or '69. Orioles 7, Red Sox 6. My dad and uncle, both baseball game, but, there aren't that many football The Even Worse Off, made up of Boston fans, bought me peanuts and cracker jacks. At games. The Super Bowl is another example. It's only team members Mike Cornett, Larry of his team's four rebounds. least I think they did. I just remember all the lights on one game, while the World Series lasts at least four. Augustin, joe Staten, Rob Snyder, For the winners, Love and John 
the scoreboard and the score -and my dad and uncle Why, then, is baseball so popular? After all, "it's so and Bob Simoni, the game was r"idY Frierot had five apiece, with Keith to begin. ·­
complaining about their team's loss. boring, isn't it?" Marrero and Chris Brown each ad­
ni_!s was for me. Like 99 percent ofmy friends, I grew The people who feel this way just don't understand But not before Hesburgh had ding four. Love and Frierot had four up wanting to play for the Orioles. Who cared about the beauty ofthe game. They think that, because there is blessed the team in Latin. and three rebounds. respectively. football or basketball? There wasn't much chance of a lot ofstanding around and a lack ofconstant action, it's It seems that Cornett had written Bookstore XII Commissioner growing up big or tall enough to be great in either sport. not a real sport They don't realize that there is so much to Hesburgh, asking for him to be Dave Dziedzic was pleased with the So I played Little League baseball and, ofcourse, my dad more to the game than hitting, pitching, fieldjng, and there to bless them. In reply, lies­way the tournament's opening game was the coach. running. There's a lot of strategy in every move, every burgh told the team that he wasn't went. 
As was the case with most ofmy friends, however, the decision. It is such an intricate sport that it can be sure of his agenda for that day, but "It served its purpose in ~hat it got physical talent to go on to a much higher level of play called, as it often has been, an art that he would try to be there. interest going," said Dziedzic. "We was not there. I never lost my love for the game, though. B.ut there is more to baseball's secret ofsuccess than "Contrary to popular belle( I was got what we wanted -a big draw 
And judging from the record-breaking crowds that see its beauty. There is also its unpredictability. The old not there to give them their last team with Karl Love and a team with the 4,200-plus games each year, there are many who adage about "on any given day" is fulfilled in baseball rites," said the University President. a bunch of guys who just wanted to share the same feeling. more than any other sport If a team has a hot pitcher or "Before the game I told them that have fun. 
It's hard to believe that, a couple ofyears ago, people hot bats on that one night, it can beat any other team, no the only thing that would make "I think the spirit of Bookstore were saying that baseball was no longer America's matter how outclassed it is. Even the Cubs win at least them 'even worse off would be if really shone through. And with Hes­burgh there, (the game) symbolizeu
Pastime. They said that football was now the No. I 50 games year. they had me on 'their team. sport. Look at the crowds that football draws, they'd say . And baseball is fun to watch. They're big summer "Still, I was proud of the way they that the tournament is for 
• Look how many people watch on television, especially parties. What other sport can you watch stretched out played," continued Hesburgh. everyone."
t
, during the Super Bowl. Whe'l the baseball players went in the warm summer air, with a beer in hand? And you "They got about, what, eight baskets, The Even Worse Off have said that on strike, you could afmost hear them play the funeral don't miss any big plays. and played really well at the end." they would like to he asked back to march. Sorry, football fans, but baseball has always been No. Incidentally, this was the first 
.. see f'AME, page 12
r Were they ever wrong. Baseball never died, it just I and it will stay that way as long as it exists. Bookstore Basketball game that Hes­









