
......
-
---· 
::t!. • : 

Spoetal Collections 
3 

• Chicago politics -page 5 
Memorial Library 

sub 51932 • • 
Notre, Oa~e, IN 46556 



VOL XVII, NO. i 2 i tlw mdcpcndnl! -~tudt'lll nnnpapcr ~crYing notre dame and ~amt marY~ TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1983 
Study lounges 



0-C housing lottery averted 
By MIKE WILKINS know that there are any better solu­received the approval of a commit­Senior StaffReporter tions right now." tee set up to review the housing Everyone involved stressed the situation. 
One week before a scheduled seriousness of the situation. "The The use of study lounges became housing lottery was to have oc­housing lottery was detlnitely not an possible when approximately 200 curred, Father Michael Heppen, idle threat," said Heppen. Student men and 80 women canceled their director of student residences, an­Government Housing Corrimis-housing contracts and decided to 
nounced there would be no lottery. -sioner Jorge Valencia agreed: "This move off-campus. Local apartment was det1nitely a serious situation. managers have reported that they
All students who submitted a valid We weren't sure we would be able are running ahead in applicationshou~ing contract by the announced 
to avoid a lottery until this compared to past years, probablydeadline will receive rooms on 
weekend." because of this year's on-campuscampus next year, according to a 
The lottery was avoided after a housing shortage.
directive released yesterday by Hep­suggestion by Valencia that study Since February 1 1, when the pen. 
lounges in some of the women's directive was issued extending the
The directive also announced that 
dorms be used to house students, in date that housing contracts could bebecause of the unusually high num­addition to the previous idea to use canceled, Campus View Apartmentsber of room reservations for next the study lounges in Flanner and have rented apartments to 119 stu­year, the study lounges in selected Grace halls. The suggestion was
dorms will be used to house some see LOTTERY, page 6 
well-received by Heppen andfreshmen next year. 
"I was always opposed to using the study lounges, but I think that given the high demand that we have 
Funding provides for 
for on-campus housing, we came down to the bottom line -we would have to accomodate students 

animal care facility 
in the study lounges," Heppen com­
mented. 
By RYAN VER BERKMOES Agriculture, says Crovello, "We
"The HPC has been against using 
Managing Editor Emeritus haven't passed any of those tests
the study lounges to house students, yet."
This is one of the rooms currently used on the basement ofthe but we are even more opposed to a 
Increasing pressures from govern­The animals are in several rooms
Galvin Life Science Center for the housing ofanimals used in ex­lottery," noted Mike McAuliffe, hall 
ment agencies and animal welfare in the basement ofGalvin. Currently
perimentation. A new, roomierfacility is being designed. See story• presidents council president, "the 
groups have forced the University to a number different species, such as 
on thispage. lottery had to be avoided -I don't 
pursue construction ofa new animal rabbits and birds, can be found in the care facility. The need for this same room. This violates NJ.H.Stanford-Keenan facility is called for in the PACE guidelines and is unfavorable from a 
Report. scientific standpoint. As an addition w the Galvin Life "We're extremely crowded, Science Center, the structure would which makes for many problems.

Co-residential proposal passes 
house the many different types of The animals deserve the best care. animals currently used for ex­
ByTOMMOWLE Student Body President Lloyd Instead, study lounges will be used They are as a much a part of an ex­StaffReporter Burke questioned the usefulness of ·to house some students. The Senate perimentation at the University. periment's design as the most this, saying "the HPC answers to the unanimously passed a resolution 
elegant equipment," said Protessor 
The Stanford-Keenan complex Student Senate, nor we to them." that these study lounges not be used Th~e----/, of Biology Paul Weinstein. "We use should be turned into a co-Senior Class President Mark Mai exclusively for freshmen. PACE them for research in drug treatment, residential hall, the Student Senate noted that the HPC would consider Burke said the administration's biochemistry and nutrition." ~1
Reportl---Li%
recommended at this senate's t1nal the issue anyway, so the Senate proposal to place only t1rst-year stu­"Animals inkcted for ex-
meeting last night. should go ahead and send it to Vice dents in the study lounges "would perimentation must be isolated. We
According to Theodore Crovello,
Under this proposal, which passed President for Student Affairs Father isolate freshmen" to a great degree. can't do so now to the degree that
chairman of the department of biol­
by a 10--f vote with one abstention, John Van Wolvlear, Provost Timothy He noted that the tower study we or the N.I.H. would like."
ogy, "It is to the point where we 
the men of Stanford Hall would O'Meara, and llniversity President lounges "would make great rooms if Weinstein however stresses the
either must build a new facility or 
switch places with the women of Theodore Hesburgh. you wanted to get away." quality of the current facility.
cutback on our research." F:.rley Hall. Participation in the ar­Burke also noted that the HPC is McAuliffe said the HPC would "Things are pretty cramped, but it is 
One major source of funding for rangement would be voluntary for now composed of new members, study "long-term solutions" to the the department is the National In­really an inconvenience to the per­residents of Farley and Keenan. many of whom would be reluctant housing problem. sonnel as opposed to the animals.
stitute of Health. In recent yearsProposed by Greg Miller, student to vote against their friends in Stan­Judicial Coordinator Kevin Steirer The animals are currently housed in
while public concern for the welfare senator for all three dorms, the idea ford or Farley, these being the most presented a unitled list of election cages that meet national standards."
ofanimals used in research has been 
is based on the recommendations of likely dorms to oppose the change. rules for each type of campus elec-_ Plans for the new animal facility
growing, the N.LH. has set down 
the 1975 Malits Committee Report. He said, "We must remember whose tion. To prevent future situations are nearing completion. "We're
minimum standards tor animal care This report was put out by the good we are looking out for -not similar to this year'sMob allegations, hoping to tlnalize them in the next
that must be met in order to secure 
Provost's Office, and recommended just Farley and Stanford. but the officials at the polling places will be kw weeks," said Weinstein. The
funding.establishing co-residential housing good of the whole community." permitted to "validate a non-official one-story structure which will ex­
Inspections tor compliance are 
by the 1978-79 school year. Burke also noted that this change tend from the east side of Galvin is
carried out for the N.LH. by the The stated purpose of the will affect people in the future, as it see SENATE, page 6 
United States Department of see ANIMAL, page 4 proposal is "to provide a tlrst step, or is proposed to be implemented in testing ground, for co-educational the 198--l-85 school year. This will 
housing at Notre Dame." Miller give sufficient notice to incoming 

Result ofassults 
believes this arrangement "will al­students that they will be living in a 
low individuals to relate better to different dorm after a year or two, member!> of the opposite sex." and also current residents who 


SMC starts new security measures 
Miller suggested that each wing of oppose the change time to plan for alternate arrangements.
the building would remain single By MOLLY KINNUCAN In addition, the last aisle on the "It went up drastically ti>r a while sex, and normal parietals would Those who do not wish to Jive in 
News Staff extreme west ofthe Lemans parking ...I anticipate that it will slack off remain in effect in these areas. All the co-residential dorm could be 
Jot has been designated tor "those again as the weather get~ nicer," says partitions separating the common moved to the dorm of their choice 
New security measures have been women who have jobs, student Foldesi. area between the dorms would be and replaced by students from else­
employed recently at Saint Mary's teaching, or nursing, which requires Despite the sense of security removed and these areas would be where on the campus. Me Auliffe said 
College as a result of the assaults them to keep late hours," explained provided by the new features, Fol­open to all on a 24 hour basis. the HPC would det1nitely bring up 
committed this past November and Foldesi. In this area, cars can be desi notes that "the prime means of In the original proposal, only up­the issue, as it would "dramatically 
December in the McCandless Hall parked from S p.m. until 9:~0 a.m., a safety remains in travelling in groups perclassmen would be allowed to affect hall life on the campus." 
area. two hour extension beyond the nor-and using common sense. The stu­participate in the experiment. The Miller said he believes the 
mal 7:~0 a.m. limit. dents will go where they want to go;
"We have to have a game plan,"
full senate, however, decided to in­proposal has a chance ofapproval by A third security measure involves we are not trying to infringe upon
said Mr. Robert Foldesi, director of
the administration, because it has

clude freshmen by a 9-2 vote with the use of the escort service their personal expression of where
personnel at Saint :\1ary's. 
four abstentions. been recommended by other 
provided by Saint Mary's security. they want to go. We just have to groups. He said Assistant Provost Sis­
Hall Presidents Council Chairman "There is now a security officer on "An average of 10 to 12 escorts take protect ourselves." Mike McAuliffe recommended ter John Jullian was "totally for the 
duty during the hours ofdarkness in place each night from a variety of The new security features were bringing the issue to the HPC and idea." the McCandless lot," he said. This locations," says Foldesi. ·recommended by Mr. Anthony the Hall Councils of Stanford and In other business, the Senate an­foot patrol service will continue Because each escort is Jogged, he Kovatch, director ofsecurity at Saint Farley before sending it to anyone in nounced the administration's deci­through the remainder ofthe school has noted the increase in the use of Mary's. They then went to the senior 
the administration. sion not to have a lottery this year. 
year. escort since the recent incidents. officers for approval. 



News Brie/§ 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 
The architect of "Reaganomics" and the economics counselor for 1984 Democratic candidates will meet in debate at 8 p.m. tonight in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The program is sponsored by the Student Union Activities Commission. George Gilder, author ofWealth and Poverty and economic advisor to President Reagan and Robert Reich, associated with the "Atari Democrats" and author of several widely quoted articles on economics, will discuss "Economics for the 1980's" during the debate. -The Observer 
Tomorrowis the last dayto rescind housing con­tracts without penalty. A shortage of on-campus housing forced Father Michel Heppen, director ofstudent residences, to extend the deadline nearly a month ago. The extension has apparently worked, as Heppen said yesterday that an on-campus housing lottery will not be necessary for next year. Students who have turned in housing contracts will forfeit their room deposits and pay a S I 50 fine if they decide to move off-campus after tomorrow. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's Campus Ministry will spon­sor a Penance Service for Holy Week at Sacred Heart Church tonight at I 0 p.m. The service will consist ofreadings, songs and a homily for the occasion. Afterward, I 0 priests will be available tor those who wish to receive the Sacrament-of Reconciliation. Father John Fitzgerald will preside at the service. Brother Joe McTaggart will preach the homily, and the 12:15 Sunday Mass group will provide the music. -The Observer 
A convicted bigamistwho testified he married t o5 women in a wedding march that became a stampede over the years was sentenced yesterday to the maximum 34 years in prison and fined S336,000. "Society needs to be protected from this in­dividual," Superior Court Judge Rufus CoulterJr. said in pronounc­ing sentence on Giovanni Vigliotto, 53. The defendant, who scolded the judge for "hang 'em high justice," was sentenced to 28 years for fraud and six years for bigamy, plus the fine. "He won't do it to anybody else for a wh tile, will he?" said Patricia Gardiner, one ofthe women Vigliotto testified he had wed. -AP 
The Austrian government announced plans yesterday to double the number of brood mares at the stud farm for the famed Lippizaner dancing stallions after a herpes virus killed 31 of the prized animals. Healthy horses were evacuated in an effort to save them from the deadly disease. Five afflicted mares and 17 foals were receiving infusions of medication in an effort to keep them alive. More than 200 horses, mainly Lippizaners, are at the stud farm and nearby stables, a government official said. Offers of help and 
medical advice came from abroad, but horse experts said cautiously 
that they thought the worst of the epidemic had passed. -AP 
A 205-foot long sub sandwich took more thim one hour to make, but less than half that time for a hungry crowd to eat. Mark Van Asten, a Wisconsin state board member of the Easter Seal Telethon, sold the sandwich for 25 cents an inch and raised S802 for the charity. The sandwich used eight food-slabs of bread, three-to­four thousand slices of meat and the same amount of cheese, tomatoes and onions. It was garnished with hundreds of heads of lettuce, gallons of pickles and "jar upon jar" of imported olive oil, Van Asten said. The sandwich took 75 people an hour and 10 minutes to construct, but it took "a few hundred" sandwich lovers only 32 minutes to devour-it, he said. -AP 
Wonns talkto each other,and that's whyJoseph Gaydos is going to Albuquerque. The I Oth-grade student at Bel Air High School in Baltimore used the worms as part ofan experiment to show the segmented insects can talk to each other. It won a first­place prize Sunday night at the Baltimore Science Fair at Towson State University. Gaydos demonstrated his theory by stimulating some of the worms with an electrical shock. That caused them to leave a slimy trail, which other worms appeared to detect, said Charles R. Graham, professor ofbiology at Loyola College and one of the judges. By winning the top prize in the biological sciences' senior division, Gaydos won an expense-paid trip to the Internation­al Science and Engineering Fair in Albuquerque, N.M. on May 9. ­
AP 
The Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, where the first atomic b.omb was developed, will name a study center in honor of the late). Robert Oppenheimer, the lab's first director. The renaming of the National Security and Resources Study Center on April 16 will mark the 40th anniversary of the lab. Its remote location on the Pajarito Plateau was suggested by Oppen­heimer. Dedication of the). Robert Oppenheimer Study Center will follow a scientific conference April 14-15 to examine "New Direc­tions in Physics and Chemistry." Nineteen scientists once associated with the lab, including eight Nobel laureates, will participate. -AP 
Partly sunnytoday, highs in the low ~tos. Light variable winds. Increasing cloudiness tonight. Lows in the upper 20s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow. Highs in the low to mid 40s. -AP 

'Fuesday, March 29, 1983 -page 2 

I Love Lisa 

...--"­
I don't know what it was about her; maybe it was her soft, green, friendly face that beckoned me from across the room to come closer. Maybe I was jealous ofall the other guys standing around the table she sat on in all her glory, waiting to get a better look at her, or maybe, if they were lucky enough, to touch her. I can't remember exactly what attracted me to her in the first place, but I knew one thing for sure: I was in love. 
Her name was Lisa, as I had learned through the various magazines which had featured her in their cen­terfold spreads in the past few weeks. Sure, she was ex­pensive ( 59,995 a shot), but she could do things that no other before her could do. The experts said that she was worth every cent. I knew I could never have her, but it was nice dreaming anyway. 
Lisa is not just another girl by any stretch of the im­agination, something she more than clearly showed in a presentation to a packed audience earlier this month in the Center for Continuing Education. Lisa, in fact, isn't a girl at all, but rather the 
,____ 

~~--~--------~­
Vic Sciulli 

Assistant News Editor 
Inside Tuesday 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;iii~i:=== 
a user, for example, wants to make a copy of the text on 
the screen, he simply moves the arrow to the word 
"Print" and presses the button. It's as simple as that. The 
user does not have to use the keyboard except to type 
in text. 

As JQhn Couch, director of the Lisa project, showed 
in his demonstration that day, Lisa is extremely im­
pressive at turning information into graphs (take your 
pick: bar chart, pie chart or a line graph). You can then 
enlarge or shrink the graph, use different colors for em­
phasis, label it with different 

latest personal computer styles of print or emphasize from Apple. a specific part of it through 
Lisa is the easiest personal shading. Lisa's ease at han­computer to use that has dling budget calculations been marketed thus far. was also amazing: if, for ex­She's not the most beautiful ample, there wasn't enough thing to look at, but as dad space to accomodate num­always says, the ugliest girls bers in a column, why not are always the smartest. widen the column? And if 
But the inside -that's you don't like arrangement, 
where you'll find Lisa's true reorganization is just a push 
beauty: a microprocessor button. 
that can handle data four One of the most interest­
times faster than her older ing aspects of Couch's 
sister, the famous but tiring presentation was when he 
Apple II, and twice as fast as told the audience how 
her nearest competitor in Apple secretaries who first 
today's market; a main started using Lisa have ad­
memory of one million vanced through Apple ranks 
bytes (a byte is equal to a character), with an additional6.7 million bytes ofexter­nal memeory. 
What makes Lisa stand apart from her predecessors, however, is the incredible amount ofprogramming that her engineers have stored in her memory. Lisa is what people in the computer industry like to call extremely "user friendly." Learning how to use Lisa does not in­volve massive amounts of time memorizing countless computer commands. Lisa is the first computer that is "people literate." The period which is normally in­volved in learning how to operate a computer is drasti­cally cut with Lisa. 
She takes orders from a small, plastic box with a push button on the top, affectionately called a mouse, which is attached to the computer via a cable. When the mouse is moved across the surface of a desk, an arrow on the screen moves. Pointing the arrow at one of the words or pictures on the screen and then pushing the box is all that is involved in giving Lisa her commands. If 
to executive positions. There's something pretty eerie in this, perhaps just an­other sign of just how increasingly important com­puters will be in our future. 
Computers have long had an image as being untamable creatures in the public's eye. Lisa will probably do more to change this than any computer that has come along thus far. Lisa's pricetag, however, will be the biggest obstacle in accomplishing this.Apple has already planned a less expensive successor to Lisa, the Macintosh, which may cost as little as 52000. To change a famous car company's famous motto, "There could be an "Apple" in your future." 
Observer note____----, 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessariZv represent the views of The Observer nor its editorial board. 
i!. 


The Observer I 
The Observer's Passion 
Design J::ditor... ....Tim Neely Superstar? llesign Assista111.... Thomas the douhtin~ 
twin 
l.ayou/ Sluff-... _... a hund1 ofdih<lkve" 
Typesetters ... .. kfiovcr!'l trom the manger !'ICcne News Editor ......·~ary Magdalene' Doyle 
Copy Edilor.. .. ...... 'Judas' ~ay 
Editorials Layout..... . .... ·Mary' Brown 
Spor/sCop)'Edilor .. Sully tht· cut·oll'-ear 
NfJ /Jay Editor... ......jane:. another movie 
SMC Oap Edilor .. . . .. Man· again 1)•pisl.<... ....... 'Peter' O'Connor Ad Design .................... lloh a roller ofdice Phologrupher. .Tom the centurion 
G'uest Appearances .......... Tlu.~ ang,ry moh, 
'll.llarret', Caiaphas Mowle the lligh Reporter, The figure Boneheads Part II, Mary 'Everything's alright' Sieger, crazed 
:-tquirrels. utter ahsurdity 
"We U'tlnl Barahbasl" 
The Observer (USPS 596 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary's Col­lege Subscnphons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer. P 0 Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of The 
Associated Press All reproduction 
nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 



null 
~ 50~ Michelob Wednesday March 30 


BE THERE 
Macri's located behindJeremiah Sweeney's 

--------------------------··------------------------------·---·-­
The Observer Tuesday, March 29, 1983 -page 3 



Rules on alcohol set for Lil' Sibs 
By TONI RUTHERFORD Father John Fitzgerald will offcr a .\taff"Reporter \las~ 10 a.m. Sunday at the Grono. wcather permitting. In ca~e of rain. 
Restriction~ on the u~e of alcohol the \lass \Viii be moved to ·the <lt hail partie~ and on private partin Keenan-"tanford chapel. Donut~ and \\ill be in etft.:n during l:il Sib~ orange juice wilt hc ~ervnl in Weekend. April i "i-I-. according to LaFortune after the \lass. spt·ual projt·ch chairman Sue Fleck All n ~:nts are open w the public. :-..;o }'!;.!!ate partics mav he hcld The~e wiii he an admission charge duriili!llie time that the ~ihlings are for somi: events. 
on campl.p•. In addition. no alcoholic The idea for the wcekend was beverag~s may he served at any hall developnl h\· Ficek. II was inspirnl parties. b~ an event held at the l ni\ ersity of 
These decisions were reached in \l,iami of phio. conjunction hv the ~tudent govern-"Everyone went to visit their ment. hall r~ctors and the ad-hro.(ht;r:, .I)J; sisters (at \liami) ,and mini,tration. According to Heck. the., 1/1'\d <\ gr,e~! t)me. It was very popular. rt:ason for the decisions was ,.t,l¥£ ,..:\?rr.si~tt;r~, '":ho attend .\liami. said to siblings are not university studems.-mc, 'Why doesn't Notre Dame havt: and theretiJre are not undcr its juris-something likt: that',' so I mentioned diction. The l'niversity consequent-it to the special projects committct: lv does not have the authority to and was put .tn.chargt: of the event." allow them to consume alcohol. said Fleck. .' ,-
Regbtration li>r siblings wiH he on "\li:_t: are a!>k!ng that ewryone he 
The: Orn.t.-rw:r/ rom \l hite 

Friday. April I'l. lncludt;d in the on l,rdn:ir be~( 'behavior so that no­
, )' ... Max Lerner proposes combining all the social he beliez•es will giz•e better understanding of the evt:nts planned for the wee~nd is a thing happen!:'_that would preclude sciences into one discipline he refers to as individual. at a lecture held last night in the "iOs sock hop in the South Dining the eVfrlt next year." sht: added. "human science." Lerner stated this theor)', which Hayes Heal)• Auditorium. 
I fall Friday night. 
The l!niversity is expt:cting about In addition, head football coach I 000 siblings to attend the event. It 

Welch professor 
Gerry . Faust will speak at 9 a.m. 
has bet:n possiblc to accomodatt:Saturday. Following Faust's talk will 

this number of s~udt:nts ht:cause of be an admissions prese~tation. 

huses hired to transport the siblings 


Lerner favors 'human sciences' 
Other events planned for Saturday 
from 13 difft:ren~ art:a~. Tht: sign-up

include a performance by the Notre 
deadlint: tor t:il; Sibs weekend was ByJACK AMARO American Studies at Notre Dame, individual. Lerner's "humanDame Glet: Club and a picnic nt:ar 
March IS. No extensions will be rt:counted his personal search for an scit:nce" would concern itself with

Stepan Center. The movies, "Arthur" Neu•Staff 
made. l intt:grativt: approach to knowledgt: the human individual. The disciplineand "Wake-up the Echoes," will be Max Lerner doesn't like the term last night. would try to lind an explanation forshown until "':30 p.m. An organizational-meeting will bt: "social sciences." In tact, ht: has According to Lerner, the trag­an individual's thoughts and actionsSaturday t:vening there will be held .in the LaFortune Little Theater h)' viewing his responses to tht: dif­

''L'il Sibs at Lafortune," which will at 7 p.m. Tuesday for anyone in­replaced this term in his own mentation oftht: study ofthe human include a tournament in the vocabulary, and inserted the phrase ht:ing into different fidds has left ferent aspects of his society.
pool terestt:d in helping with evt:nts. "W'e "human sciences." those who study the social sciences Lerner recounted his long intd­
basement of Lafortune and a band in need a big turnout for tht: event to Lernt:r. the Welch professor of with a narrow undt:rstanding of the lectual journey in trying to tlnd a
the l.hautaunna rnffrrhnuse. be a success,'' stated Fleck. 
unifying principle within the realm ofsocial sciences that would enahk
Laser technology 
him to find a new approach. His jour­ney hegan after he got his Ph.D. Lerner said that though he has




Reagan proposes high-tech defens,e 
failed to tlnd this unifying principk, he has karned through his search
WASHINGTON (AP)-Senior ad­intercept enemy missiles headed for missile defense research, officials them to cheer." 
how the great thinkt:rs have trit:d to ministration officials acknowledged the United States. said, about 7'5 percent of it on the The Soviets are spending more integrate their knowkdgt: of the so­yesterday that President Reagan's vi­"This is not a new idea, it is not a more traditional approaches such as than the United States on both ballis­cial sciences into their disciplines.
sion of a high technology defense totally nt:w concept, it goes back I 0 interception by ground-launched tic missik defense and bt:am tech­According to Lerner, not even against missile attack is an idea that to 20 years," said one official. He anti-missile missiles. nology, oftkials said, hut they \tarxism is abk to hold togetht:r tht: goes back I 0 to 20 years, hut they conceded there has been "no When asked whether the presi­expressed doubts that tht: Soviets 
whok framt: of ihoughts that contended he has made it a genuine specific breakthrough" in such long­dent's plans could result in conflict would achieve opt:rational 
compose tht: human scienct:s. Ht: priority. standing research, but said thert: had with the 1972 treaty strictly curhing hardware anytimt: soon. 
feds that this political philosophy is After a speech announcing the in­been "some remarkable advances" ballistic missile defenses, officials Both the United States and thc more conct:rnnl with tht: socit:tyitiative and a series of follow-up in such key 'phases as aiming and said the question probahly will not Soviet Union have major research that produces Man than with Man. 
briefings, there was still no. indi"a­tracking tec;hniques important to arise for another five to I 0 years as programs in these areas. The Soviet tion from the administration on the concentrating high-intensity light research progresses and that there high-t:nergy Iast:r program alone is After yetrs of study, Lernt:r con­ultimate cost of the project or the beams or streams of electrons and will be "ample timt: to discuss this estimated by the Pentagon at thrt:e sidered a possibk answer to his direction it might go. other particles against targt:ts such with the Soviets." to five times the U.S. effort. question of a person's perct:ption of 
Meanwhile, there were conflict­as approaching warheads. The official Soviet news agency The Ddense Departmt:nt's recent his society was to considt:r Amt:rica ing versions as to who frrst sug­"We have not had a clearly stated Tass said deployment of the anti­report on Soviet military power sug­as a civilization instead of a socit:ty. gested pushing the defensive shield goal until the president spoke last missile system would violate the gested that a space-based, Soviet This nt:w hypothesis promptt:d him concept to the forefront as a way of night," the official said. treaty. And in a separatt: rt:action, anti-missile system using high­to write his mastt:rpiece, The swinging long-range security policy As for the financing of the project, Radio Moscow termed Rt:agan's energy last:rs could be tested in tht: American Civilization. 
away from reliance on massive, officials said the Pentagon will have speech "hellicose" and accust:d him 1990s "hut probably would not bt: 
"We should lind as many angks to
retaliatory forces of nuclear to ask Congress for supplemental of using "new CIA-fahricated ligures opt:rationaluntil tht: turn oftht: cen­
the study of man that we can," Ler­
weapons. funds in this fiscal year. It is uncer­about the Soviet military potential tury." 
ner said. In this way, tht: study ofWhite Houst: spokesman Larry tain whetht:r such an add-on in ...to try to justify the unprece­"The president is turning em­man will not rdy on partial insight toSpeakes told reporters under budget requests for fiscal 1984 will dented military spending of the phasis from offense to defense," onc study such a compkx subject."
questioning that "largely it was his be necessary, the official said. United States." official said. (Reagan's) idea" growing out of a The government now spends Asked about the Soviet rt:sponse, meeting with theJoint Chiefs ofStaff about s1 billion a year on ballistic Reagan rt:plied, "I didn't expect weeks ago. But senior administra­tion officials. briefing military writers in a separate room, credited the "community of cl)iefs" as originating the idea. 
Ont: senior official said it was 

Apr., 3rd
"absolutely impossible" to estimate the cost, at least until after ad­
Notre Dame 
ministration officials had dt:fined the 
ACC 

most promising research ap­proaches designed to produce an 
7Public Shows 
impregnable anti-missile defense by 
Thurs., Fri. 8p.m. tht: end of the century. 
Sat., Noon, 4&8p.m. According to the officials, Reagan 
' Sun., 2p.m. &6p.m. t.. probably would sign a directive 
----~--------·~ 
Wed., Teachers' f2
tomorrow setting that process-in 
Credit Union Night (f 
motion. 
No Public Sale MORE Scientists in and out of govern­
THURSDAY-HOOK'S HALF--< ... '"' CHAMPIONS ON 
PRICE DISCOUNT SHOW ':":::";,';;'' ICE THAN ANY OTHER SHOW! Check at Hook's Stores ,-----.,----:------:-----------..-­
mt:nt will he brought into the 
deliherativt: process, which will be 
' PRICE5a IYOU'LL KNOW us BY NAME BUT THE SHOW'S NOl THE SAil£!]
under the direction of the Defenst: 
1 

~ $5.50 Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 
Department, officials said. Administration scientitlc officials 
11 $7.so students 'h price for the 
..>~ $8.50 following shows: such technologies as high-energy 
indicated the focus ofstudies will be 
Thurs. 8 PM-Fri. 8 PM 
lasers, charged particle beams, 
Sat. 12 noon-Sun. 6 PM 
microwave devices and what was 
Tickets at A.C.C. Box Office


Register for the Corby Open golf tournGment.
termed "projectile tt:chnology," 
9AMto5PM

meaning the shooting of objects to. · Rpril16 
~---------------------~ 

The Observer Tuesday, March 29,-1983-page 4 
• • . Animal 

Shown above is the east side of the Galvin Lzfe Science Center, which faces juniper Road. Below is an artist's conception ofhow the proposed Animal Care Facili~y addition will look. Officials hope construction will begin later this year. 

continuedfrom page I 
being designed by Ellerbe and As­sociates. According to Weinstein, "They tell me they have done anum­ber offacilities like this before." 
Cost estimates for the structure varv from S2 million to 53 million, depending on the types of equip­ment selected for the interior. 
"We are already 40 percent there with our funding," ~aid Director of Developement Michael Mancuso. "I'd like ro see all the commitments for it lined up by June, even if we don't have all the money in hand." 
The planned completion date for the facility, should the University ap­prove the plans in June, is late 1984. At that time, it is hoped that Notre Dame will for the first time qualify for accredidation from the American Association of Accreditation for Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC ). This will insure N.l.H. funding. and also lessen the inspection require­
ments by the Department of 
Agriculture. 
Recent efforts by special interest 
groups to limit experimentation 
with live animals has left scientists 
uneasy. There has been congres-
Abandonment 


Mother faces child abuse charges 
MEMPHIS. Tenn. (AP)-A Texas 
woman accused of abandoning her 
four children at a fast-f(>od res­
taurant was found yesterday in East 
Tennessee ·claiming that a '"mail or­
der ordained reverend" and hb wife 
had abducted her. 
Diane Hamlin, 2H, of Huntsville, Texas, was arrested at a Salvation Army ~helter in Chattanooga, 31" miles east of Memphis. Also taken in­to custody wen: Robert lee Yeary. 42, and his wife, Carolyn Sue Yeary, both of lndianapoli~. Traveling with 
the three adults was the Yearys' 7­year-old daughter. who is in Juvenile Court care. 
Sgt. Helen Cooper, spokesman for the Chattanooga Police Department, said all three adults were charged with child abuse and neglect, a mis­demeanor punishable by a Sl ,000 tine and or 1 I months and 29 days in prison. They also face a felony 
charge of leaving the state after 
abandonment ofchildren. 
The three adults are being held 
without bond in the Chattanooga 
City Jail pending the arrival of . Memphis police today. 
'\1rs. Hamlin's children were 
found hungry and crying at a 
McDonald's restaurant in South 
1\ft:mphis la~t Thur~day night 
A Sal\"ation Army employee 
recognized .\1rs. Hamlin's name 
from new~ accounts and called 
police after the woman registered at 
the shelter yesterday morning. 
Sgt. Cooper said 'vtrs. Hamlin told 
investigators she had traveled across 
Tennessee and into Georgia with the 
Yearys before winding up in Chat­
tanooga. 
"She's saying that she was forced 
to go along. that she feared for the safety of her children," the officer 
said. 
Mrs. Hamlin told police she met the Ycarys a month ago. She also said Yeary told her that her children would he picked up from the res­taurant by his sister: So far, police · have not heen able to lind any rdative~ofYeary·~ in Memphis. 

Sgt. Cooper said officers found a newspaper clipping in Yeary's pock­et indicating that he had been tried in 19""'6 on charges of kidnapping, theft, rape, s()(lomy and assault stem­ming from the abduction of the 77­year-old grandmother of his former wife. 
"The four children are together in a shelter home," Sandra Schwanke, child care supervisor for Juvenile Court said. "There was one family in town that agreed to take all lour of them." 
Every Tuesday night in the 



Wild Wheel 

Terrace Lounge, 
rr..,.b R'n~n~.' ~i~~~~~:~
\.-iI H' """~~ Crab Races! FREE Registration at 8:30p.m. select a crab from our stable, and anxiously await the 9:00p.m. post time! Prizes will be awarded to the winners. 
Between races, drink discount prices will be spinning on our Wild Wheel! Wherever the wheel stops, that's the price for drinks during the next 15 minutes, as low as 50¢! 

Come out. of your shell at the Terrace Lounge every Tuesday tor South Bend's only Wild Wheel Crab Races! 

sional pressure for new regulations. "The Reagan Administration has not even touched this hot potato. The 
N.I.H. is treading a mine field in organizing its own regulations," said Weinstein. Dean Crovello concur~. "In addition to doing research you end up having to fight city hall." 
Weinstein defends the use of laboratorv animals. "You have to have a ~omplex organism like a mammal in order to do so much of 
I 

By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
Saint Mary's Editor 
"J.-' J J: 

A runoff election will be held be­tween the ticket of Susie Miller and Katie Schirger, and ,the ticket of Sheila Whalen and Paula Ballantine for president and vice-president of McCandless Hall. 
The two tickets ran against the ticket of Danita Eartly and Karen Nickolas in the serond M~Candless hall election {on:I:.J&S.offi~:e ( rs. 
While Whalen's Jticket defeated Eartly's by a few votes, according to Elections Comll)l,i,ssioner Ann Marie Kollman, both tickets•w~tre about 20 votes bhind Miller's ticket. 
Last Thursday's general election resulted in a ruoofl"hetween the Mil­ler and Eartly ricker. However, com­
plaints  were  raised  that  some  
students  were  unable  to  vote  be­ 
cause  no  one  was  monirering  
McCandless's  voting  booth  at  

various times during voting hours. 
our human-related research. You can't simulate the right responses with just a culture of cells." One of his projects involves the use of cats to study torms ofanemia in humans. 
Crovcllo is more philosophical. "We are doing research to improve public health. It can be considered 
corporal  works  of  mercy  once  
removed.  It  affects  many,  many,  
people."  


McCandless re-votes for dorm president 
Resident Advisors of McCandless hall supported the allegations. "There were a couple oftimes when no one was working the voting booth,;' said previous elections com­missioner Monica Gugle, who inves­tigated the tickets complaints. 
McCandless Hall Yice-Presdient 

Patty Nolan was responsible for 
scheduling students to monitor the 
voting booth during poll hours. The 
student on duty was supposed to 
remain at her post until her replace­
ment arrived. The student failed to 
notify:either Nolan or Gugle that the 
next monitor had not assumed her 
post.,'J r.i 
Yest~i"day's re-vote was held be­cause some students were unable to vote. The turnout at the polls was less than 50 percent, according to Gugle. 
· Polling hours tor today·~ runoff election arc 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the LcMans lobby. 

Hoosier Amish hold draft horse auction 
TOPEKA, Ind. (AP) -Sirting in the front-row bleachers among the black-hatted Amish, it's almost like friday night at a high school basket­ball game, hut without the hall. 
Huge horses come .in.·•. ·. manes tlying, and viewers ·:~oh';,~nd "aah" and crank their head~ back and forth. Each animal. a little ~alleycd at so 
" ,_,

COUNSELINE 
A new service to the NO c~inm'imity 
239-7793 HOURS: 4·9pm Mon.-Thurs. 
;i ..:ounseline is a free. confidential telepnone service that offers professsionally taped materials that r.over a wide variety of student concerns 
TAPE NO. TITLE Friendship Building Dealing with Constructive Criticism Dealing with Anger Understanding Jealousy & How to Deal 
with It 10 How to Say "'No" 16 Becoming Open to Others 18 Dating Skillo :;o Anxiety & Possible Ways to Cope with It 32 How to Deal with loneliness 33 How to Handle Fear5 35 Building Self-Esteem & Confidence 
37 Relaxing Exercises 38 Coping with Stress 39 Female Sex Role-Changes & Stress 
44 Learning to Accept Yourself 61 What is Therapy & How to Use It 83 How to Cope with a Broken Relationship 85 Understanding Grief 90 Helping a Friend 160 Early Signs of an Alchohol Problem 161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking 402 Self-Assertiveness 431 What Is Depression 432 How to Deal with Depression 433 Depression as a Life Style 478 Becoming Independent from Parents 479 Dealing with Alchoholic Parents 491 Suicidal Crisis 492 Recognizing Suicidal Potential in Others 493 Helping Someone in a Suicidal Crisis 
Counseline is a completely anonymous service offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center· UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9-5 
-·CLIP AND SAVE-­
··, ~ .,. ... ·~ . 

many people. gallops up one end of 
the  arena  and  back  again  at  the  
Topeka  Draft  Horse  Auction  on  
Saturday.  

"Hold her, hold her," shouts Freeman Slauhaugh to his son, Devon, 10, as a high-spirited 2,000­pound Belgian misses the turn and slams into the crowd of grinning, denim-clad young Amishm ten, stand­ing inside the arena. 
They don't seem to mind. Hands go up, slapping the horse on the side. And Devon, struggling with the huge beast, manages to turn her around. Then otl they gallop to the tar end. The Amish like that. They are born with horses. The bid goes up to s.~.ooo. 
"This one likes to pull," says the auctioneer. "Look at her. She's a high-stepper. But you can hook her to anything -plow, thrasher, hay haler. She's a little thick in the hocks but a tine bloodline." 
The bid reaches S5,600. Say a tew nice things and the party gets ex­pensive. 
It's diftkult to tell where the bid comes from. Bidders nod or wink or tap their checks. Class bidding, they call it. Private, almost secret. Nobody shouts but the place is abuzz. Take off your hat and the bid goes up. Touch your nose and you're apt to he a sudden horse owner. 
'"Expect to sell morc'n 600 head, I suppose." says Junior \1artin, co­owner, a bigger-than-life type him­selt~ with hair the color ofthe blonde Belgians he sells. "I think everyone comes in for the action." 
Everyone includes the Amish from LaGrange and ~liddlebury. Bremen and Fmma, and from Iaraway pla<:cs like Lancaster County, Ohio. and Herne, Ind. TheY're jammed to the ceiling. 

---~-·--.­

The Observer Tuesday, March 29, 1983 -page 5 
Laser weapons could revolutionize defense 
WASHINGTON (AP) The as a deterrent policy," said Parpart in United States could have within I 0 a recent telephone interview. to 12 years a space-based system of He stressed that his group is not laser weapons that would afford the suggesting nuclear weapons in entire country a "foolproof' defense space, but that it focused attention against missile attack, according to on lasers -concentrated light the research director ofa foundation beams -and charged beams of which has explored the concept radiant energy because they 
since 1977. represent methods ofigniting the fu. 
A more limited ground-based sion process in generating nuclear laser system that could defend key energy on earth. targets such as command centers "If we want a full, foolproof area and important military bases, could defense of the United States, that be achieved in about seven years, clearly is at least a decade in the said Dr. Uwe Parpart, a physicist future, possibly I 0 to I 2 years," Par­
who heads research for the Fusion part said. Energy Foundation in New York "On the · other hand, a more City. limited system that could defend 
Parpart said he could not estimate key targets, but wouldn't cover the 
the cost of such a defense, but he United States, could be ac­suggested it ultimately might re· complished in five to seven years, quire the United States exceed probably seven." 
spending S10 billion per year. Parpart said the first phase ofsuch 
Sue Lubecki, Lilv Ravmond, Mary Ellen Ster­terfund raiser the group is sponsoring tn order to 
His projection for reaching an a defense could be built around a 
nitzke, and Kathle~n C~wanaugh, ait members of continue offering resources to the women of the
operational space-based laser ground-based laser device which 
the Notre Dame Women's Caucus discuss the Eas-Notre Dame-Saint Mary's communi~V.
defense against missile attack from would shoot laser beams into space the Soviet Union is considerably to he relayed off orbiting mirrors to more optimistic than President strike Soviet missiles as they rose up· 
Chicago politics 
Reagan's. Last week, Reagan ward in their ballistic trajectory en­expressed hope for such a defense route to the United States. by the turn of the century. He did so In a second phase, Parpart said, 


Fear, prejudice grips community
in giving this program a high the United States could put in opera­CHICAGO (AP)-The pastor ofa cal's church. parishioners in the all-white neigh·priority. tion a space-based system using X· church where white protesters He had invited Washington, who borhood are worried about rumorsParpart said the foundation ray lasers. ,J, 
staged a "demonstration of hate" is a Methodist and a Democrat, and that public housing may be built on
became interested in what are called With such X-ray beams, Parpart against black mayoral candidate Republican candidate Bernard Ep­vacant land not far fromm theDirected Energy Weapons in 1977 said, "You would only have to point Harold Washington said yesterday ton, who isJewish, to attend Mass at church, Ciezadlo said. He explainedas an offshoot from its principal con­and shoot." 
the neighborhood is gripped by fear the church on Palm Sunday. "But I that he invited both candidates tocern, to promote fusion energy. He said X-rays are quick-acting, and prejudice. didn't expect this," he said. the church to better understand the"A ballistic missile defense using setting off a shock wave when strik-. 
The April 12 general election will tears and needs of the neighbor·
lasers would begin to shift the entire ing the surface of an intercontinen· "Fear is the biggest thing that af determine whether Chicago gets it hood.
strategic equation and get us away tal ballistic missile and then running fects our community," said the Rev. 
tirst black mayor ever, or its tirst "Three weeks ago, we were
from mutually assured destruction 
through the entire missile. Francis Ciezadlo, pastor of St. Pas-
Republican mayor in more than SO frozen out," said Ciezadlo. "They years. weren't even campaigning in this Soviet sources confirm neighborhood." 
Washington and former Vice "They have to know our feelings President Walter Mondale arrived at and us. Then they might be able to the Roman Catholic church as the help us," he said.
Concern for Andropov abounds 
9:4'; a.m. Mass was ending for about Washington, a copgressman who 800 parishioners. Outside the has described Chicago as "the most
MOSCOW (AP) -Communist Prior to taking over the party, the Concerns about Andropov's ill­Party chiefYuri V. Andropov, at the former KGB chiefhad been reported church, however, an angry crowd of segregated city in the United States" 
ness heightened today when 
about 200 people -most purport­because ofits racially divided neigh·helm of the Kremlin only four suffering from various ailments. Defense Minister Dmitri F. Ustinov months, was hospitalized last week U.N. Secretary-General Javier 
ing to he Epton supporters -borhoods, said the incident at the
made an unusual same-day return to 
greeted Washington with church mirrored "hase, crass, anti­for treatment of kidney and heart Perez de Cuellar is to visit Moscow Moscow. Only that morning, he had obscenities and racial slurs, and attitudes."
troubles but has been released, well­Sunday and plans to meet with flown to Budapest where he con­
informed Soviet sources said yester­Andropov. The state of Andropov's sulted with Hungarian leader Janos drove him and :\1ondale away. He also said Epton "had some ex· Many of the approximately 3,000 plaining to do."
day. health could become clearer if he Kadar and Defense Minister Lajos The sources said Andropov, 68, meets Perez de Cuellar. Czinege. 
··-·caN·r·Ac·;:··i:·E·Ns"l
attended a regular meeting of the One source said that Andropov Western diplomats said it was rare party's ruling Politburo yesterday had a chronic kidney ailment, but for any member of Moscow's ruling 
Replacements & Spares!
that approved the appointment of that his hospitalization came after he Politburo to make such a short visit Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko developed a heart problem about to a foreign country. AS LOW AS as a first deputy premier. Western two weeks ago. Rumors that Andropov was ill diplomats said the Gromyko ap­$14.95
The source said doctors recom· began circulating in the Soviet capi­pointment could signal the begin­mended that Aodropov be treated in tal on March 16. The next day, Call for details ning ofa top-level Kremlin shakeup. a hospital and take a rest. It was not speculation grew when the 12-man 
clear when he went into the hospi­Politburo, headed by Andropov as i1 800 255·2020
A Soviet source said that Leonid I. Zamyatin, chiefof the Central Com­EYE CONTACT
tal, but it must have been after party general secretary, apparently March 1S. 
failed to meet.
mittee's International Information i 

P.O. Box 7770 
On that day, he met with Com­

Department, also was hospitalized Since he took control of the party : 
munist Party ideological secretaries

with heart trouble. Zamyatin's office last Nov. 12, two days after the death .~Shawnee Mission, KS 66207!.
from the Warsaw Pact countries and l•n•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••-••••••••••••••••••
said he would not return "for a week of Leonid L Brezhnev, the regular
Vietnam, Laos, Mongolia and Cuba.

or so," but did not elaborate. Thursday Politburo meetings have
The theoreticians of Marxism­

been faithfully reported on
There has been no official an­Leninism were in the Soviet capital 



r;h;Best iee:·;AI:·A~~br:~~
Thursday nights.by the official Tass 
nouncement in the state media that to celebrate the 1OOth anniversary 
news agency and on Friday morning Create your own fresh. frothy, natural beer with our complete ~ 
Andropov or Zamyatin was ill. ofthe death of Karl Marx. 
in the party daily Pravda. 
Sources who said Andropov had It was not known which of three \(l brewing kits. been hospitalized all concurred that' ·1 Moscow hospitals reserved for Neither reported a meeting last ~ At Crystal Mountain we help you put it all together: The finest his illness was not life-threatening. Kremlin officials Andropov used. week. 
:}·malts. hops. and yeasts available, simple. quality equipment, and .•
~· 



~ step-by-step procedures -everything you need to make 5 gallons )
Like Hatfields/McCoys 
~ gf_g~~~~ .s~~t~qrp.-9r~~~9. ~~~r................................... I 
, Choose from. Crystal Lager 0 Ingredients and equipment


lll"l·;:r'own feud marks local politics 
A light. smooth taste $,39 8;) are also available separately ~ GOLD Hill, Ore. (AP) -The The feud has focused on town torney and two clerks quit. One of 
Amber Ale D -send for free brochure. D 
people in ·;this tiny town, "a quiet finances, but many say privately that the clerks locked city hall behind 
A tlavorful, golden brev. $39 8;)
city" if you 'believe the sign on the personalities and wounded egos are her March I 1 as she left, and gave D Check lJ Money Order
D
l

outskirts, have lost their entire local as much to blame. Underwood the key. European Dark Ale o MasterCard 0 VISA 
government to a political feud that Today, the roughly -tOO registered \ A mellow, Old World Havoc $41 00 Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery.
"It's pretty well down to the Hat­
one resident says smacks of the Hat­voters of Gold Hill will pick a mayor fields and the ,\1cCoys," said Peter ' Irish Stout D Add $5.80 for shipping and handlingfields and McCoys. and four new members of the city Tarzian, who has lived here four Rich dark and full bodied: $44.00 Texas residents add 5% soles tax. .~
Even the one-man police force council to join the two council 
years. "There are a lot ofhad feelings
tried to resign in November, citing members who remain in office. 
on all sides." 
"politically related harassment." But 

!N~e ::'~~
• Street address ___________________ 
with no mayor and only two people The town now has no mayor be­In recent weeks, the battle has 
~: City/State/Zip
left on the city council, officer Terry cause the mayor quit. The city been fought in city council cham­llnderwood couldn't be replaced. ~o coundt prdident has been recalled. hers, in newspapers. in a federal Card H __________Exp. Date_______ 
he's still working. Three·other council members have courtroom and on the streets of 
Signature -------~------------=-''r 
He and a maintenance worker are resigned; and the public works Gold Hill, where citizens have been 
\ 

the sole employees of this southern director'and tity recorder also left bombarded with camp;1ign fliers and Oregon town of 900 people on the th~ir jobs. posters loaded with conflicting al­banks of the Rogue River. About two weeks ago the city at-legations. 

The Observer Tuesday, March 29, 1983 -page 6 


continuedfrom page I 
dents and Hickory Village Apart­ments have received applications from another 30. 
There are still 150 more men and 70 more women guaranteed housing next year than the dorms can accommodate. Heppen, however, feels that with the normal attrition rate and the use ofthe study lounges, there will be no problem in getting everyone a place to stay. 
Heppen ad<;led that freshmen who are housed in study lounges next year will be moved out of them as other rooms open up around campus. However, this means that transfer students have no chance of getting on-campus housing next year. 
Heppen, McAuliffe, and Valencia all noted that there is a national trend for more people to want to live on-campus because of its popularity and convenience. 

"It's a seasonal thing," Heppen remarked. "It depends on the popularity of living on-campus. As long as we allow students to live off­campus, I think we will have this situation." 
Heppen noted that the percent­age of studeP-ts living on-campus at Notre Dame is much greater than the percentage ofstudents living on­campus at other schools. Since Notre Dame has this residential character that most schools do nor, the housing problem here is worse than at many other schools. 
Nevertheless, USA Today recently reported that the campus housing problem at state-supported institu­tions across the country also has reached a serious level. 
"I'm not convinced that a lottery isn't a good idea," Heppen added. "I would really prefer not to use the study lounges. I have always been in-

Peace negotiations 



Lebanese cite Haddad as obstacle 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) 
Lebanese news media and Israeli 
sources said yesterday that the role 
of militia commander Saad Haddad, 
Israel's ally in southern Lebanon, is 
the last obstacle to progress in the 
troop withdrawal negotiations. 
"The talks remain deadlocked be­cause Israel insists on giving Maj. Saad Haddad and his militia a major security role in the South," the Lebanese state radio reported as U.S. presidential envoy Philip C. Habib returned to Beirut from Israel with no indications ofa breakthrough. 
The U.S.-Israeli-Lebanese talks on the withdrawal of foreign troops from Lebanon resume Thursday in the Israeli horder town of Kiryat Shmona. Israeli sources, who asked anonymity, agreed that settlement was blocked by the dispute over . 
Haddad's future role in security ar­
rangements to keep the Palestinian 
guerrillas from returning to south 
Lebanon. 
The J..ebanese government last 
week rejected Israel's demand that 
• • • Lottery 
terested in g1vmg students ex­panded study and social space and I really feel bad having to take that away from them." 
As the trend to live on-campus continues, there is an increasing need to find a procedure to handle this situation. Heppen has appointed a committee to look into housing al­ternatives. In addition, the HPC will be looking for long-term answers to the housing problem in the future. 
"I am recommending that the new HPC look into the alternatives to the housing problem," McAuliffe said. 
A change in the contract proce­dure may have to be made next year ifthe present problem continues. 
"I think that we have to develop a procedure for handing out the con­tracts," Heppen noted, "perhaps we 
will  have  to  have  a  lottery  next  
january  before  the  housing  con­ 
tracts are sent out."  



ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS AND-/~ 
ALL STUDENTS MOVING O.C. 
l!fnte 
1J1or 

®ff-<trampus <trnmmissinner 
for\1983 · 84 Wednestlay, March 30 
11:00 · 4:00 LaFortune 
Seniors may vote 
~ 

i} CANDIDATES ARE PAT DEPACE and RANDY HILL ~ "" ~z;,;;n&M'u;; '''w.?N?&ft'&h 
W&ff/!y§ff/'.u4;;'/.}?,mt'..ff/4?'#4.$Yd{"fft//ff//////ff#4@/hV/4WR//#///ffQff#:/U:/4//$1¥4@% ;r;::<rW4@M'H4tWJ47r) 
Haddad, who defied the Beirut government and set up his own ter­ritory along the Israeli-Lebanese border, be reinstated in the Lebanese army and put in charge of security arrangements in the South. 
"The Israelis contend he has more experience than the newly restructured Lebanese army in combating guerrillas," the Lebanese radio said. Israeli Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir was quoted as telling Habib that Israel "learned to work with him (Haddad) and we can rely on him" to keep the guerrillas out of 
range of the border. 
Israeli news media reported a 

stormy session of the Israeli Cabinet 
Sunday, with former Defense Minis­
ter Ariel Sharon condemning the 
tactics of his successor, Moshe 
Arens, and others demanding a uni­
lateral Israeli withdrawal to the 
Awali River in south Lebanon. This 
would tend to divide Lebanon into 
Israeli and Syrian areas of influence, 
and both the Lebanese and U.S. 
governments oppose it. 
The reports said Prime Minister Menachem Begin tried to quiet his ministers by telling them the talks were reaching a crucial stage and patience was needed so that Israel did not lose what it gained in the war. 
Meanwhile, senior officials of the Palestine Liberation Organization in Damascus denied a report by the Lebanese Christian radio station that eight Israeli soldiers captured by the PLO in the war last summer have been flown to Tunisia to be ex­changed for I,000 Palestinian prisoners in Israel soon. 
The sources in Damascus said the 

Israelis were still at their original 
detention site, and the talks to ar­
range an exchange of prisoners still had a longway to go. They refused to divulge where the Israelis were being held. 
Austrian Chancellor Bruno Kreisky has been trying to arrange a prisoner swap, and his representa­tive Herbert Emery arrived in Damascus on Sunday with new proposals, Lebanese press reports said. But no details were given. 
PLO chairman Yasser Arafat postponed a visit to Jordan until tomorrow and flew instead to Bagh­dad, while Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al Faisal flew to Amman for his second meeting in four days with King Hussein. Jordanian offi­cials said Faisal and the king would discuss Hussein's views on a negotiated settlement of the Arab­Israeli conflict. 
A riyadh newspaper. the English­language Saudi Gazette, said Faisal told it Saudi Arabia would support "any PLO-Jordan" agreement for Hussein to participate in peace talks. 
Arafat said he was postponing his visit to Amman because Hussein would be busy entertaining Sultan Qaboos ofOman. 
In Kuwait, the PLO's No. 2 man, 
Salah Khalaf, who uses the alias Abu 
Iyad, said he "did not rule out" the 
possibility that the PLO and Jordan 
may reach an agreement on "joining 
the Middle East peace process." 
Jordanian Information Minister 
Adnan Abu Oudeh told The As­
sociated Press two weeks ago that 
conditions were "not yet ripe" for 
Hussein to join peace negotiations 
sponsored by the United States, as 
Washington wants. 
"Our conditions have not yet been met both from the American side and the Palestinian side," he said. 
• • • Senate 

continuedfrom page 1 person. Steirer added, "this should be ballot" after notifying Ombudsman written out very carefully by the if a shortage occurs after 6: I 5 p.m. next senate." The rest of the Senate agreed and unanimously passed a
In addition, jurisdiction over 
motion ofsupport for the compensa­
complaints was defined. The OBUD 
tion idea.
Election Committee will settle 
Off-Campus Commissioner Bill
disputes which occur up until the 
Colleran proposed sending a letter
voting is concluded. After this time, 
to Van Wolvlear asking for a state­
jurisdiction will pass to a Judicial 
ment regarding the University's
Council committee. Steirer com­
position toward the senate's role in
mented, "This takes what we did last 
university decision-making
week and puts it into print." 

processes. He noted, "A lot of really Other clarifications include limit­good intentions have fallen short be­
ing posters to one per bulletin board, holding candidates respon­sible for "the actions of anyone in their campaign or organization," and, requiring them to sign a statement saying they understand and will abide by the election rules. 
Write-in candidates are not and never have been allowed. Steirer said, "The whole idea· is to run a legitimate campaign that's fair for everyone included." 
The Senate also considered the possibility ofoffering financial com­pensation to the student body presi­dent and vice president. Most senators were opposed to the idea of paying a salary to these people; Burke noted, "The University's pret­ty cold on the idea." 
Mai opposed the idea because he said, "We're doing pretty well with what we've got." He suggested giving three credit hours to these of­ficials to free them from taking a full course load because there is "a lot of learning involved" in these jobs. 
Because an elected official does not have the time to hold a job which gives financial aid, McAuliffe said it is important to "avoid having the most qualified not run because he needs a job." Steirer agreed, and proposed having student govern­ment pay the financial aid of such a 
cause Van Wolvlear has his own 
ideas of how things should be." This 
proposal passed unanimously. 
Another monetary issue con­
sidered and unanimously endorsed 
was the Student Government Fiscal 
Policy Statement. The Senate now 
must approve student union ex­
penditures above a certain level. 
Burke said, "This is by no means the 
end-all to fiscal policy; it should be 
developed over a number ofyears." 
The Senate unanimously ap­
proved the nomination of Bob 
Gleason as new judicial coordinator. 
Gleason was judicial chairman in 
Dillon Hall. 
Burke announced that a student 
from each college will be placed on 
the curriculum committee. Student 
Body Vice President-elect Peggy 
Prevoznik will represent the College 
ofScience. 
The Senate has prepared its com· 
ments on the Priorities and Commit• 
ments for Excellence (PACE) 
Report. A description of these will 
appear in tomorrow's paper. 
This last meeting was held at Burke's house. To conclude the meeting, Mai and Steirer toasted Burke and Student Body Vice­President Bob Yonchak and 
"officially recognized" Student Senate Secretary Katie Schlosser for "her outstanding contribution." 

,.








Editorials .. 
Tuesday, March 29, 1983 --page 7 
-


Awareness first step to global equity 
In discussing development strategies designed to improve the standard of living of Third World populations, the role of the American public is frequently ignored. 
Jeffrey Choppin 
Guest Columnist 

In the current international structure, the high standard ofliving ofsome is a cause ofthe low standard of living of others. This ine­quality is an implicit characteristic of the capitalist economic framework. It is often considered a necessary condition in capitalism that wealth be concentrated in the hands of a few. These few invest that wealth and the benet1ts of that investment are supposed to "trickle-down" to the lower end of the population. On an international level, this does not work, as evidenced by the proportion of the world's population that lives below the subsistence level. This ine­quality is advanced through American economic policy and consumption levels. Our wealth and our desire to continually hold the economic advantage implies a perpetual inequality in the international economic structure. Our level of wealth incurs high levels of consumption, which, if maintained, contribute to unequal consumption levels 
elsewhere. 

What is a response to this problem and how does the American public fit in? This editorial is not proposing that we embrace Marxist ideology. Rather, it proposes that Americans be aware of the social choice implicit in our consumption standards. By choosing to consumetheworld's resourcesand food at our current levels, we choose to deny those resources and food to other portions of the world population, many of whom do not have 
enough to eat. Our consumption is very much a root of massive inequalities and poverty. Our institutionalization of the approach to satisfy our wants perpetuates poverty in other regions ofthe world. We should be aware that we choose this approach and that it causes misery in the Third World. This is not to say that there is a concerted effort to create misery, but rather that the ignorance of a so­cial choice made by the American public does cause misery. What we decide to do here domestically does have major repercussions 
elsewhere. 

While this awareness by itself does not 
physically accomplish anything immediately, 
it does have spiritual ramifications. To be 
aware of the condition of others and to be 
aware ofthe total effect ofour own actions are 
both spiritual endeavors. They are acts of 
solidarity and ofcommunion. 
Spiritual accomplishments potentially lend 
themselves to physical actions. While nothing will be done in the near future to accomplish real equity in the distribution of the world's food and resources, an increased awareness of our implicit role in the problem is a start to a long-range movement towards equity. 
Development strategies frequently try to cure symptoms, mainly because they are restricted to doing so. The real problem lies in the international structure which promotes inequality. The inequality is perpetuated by very high levels of consumption in the modern industrialized nations, of which the United States is the leader. Lower consump­tion standards domestically would cause greater availability of those goods in poorer regions of the world. An awareness that our level of consumption denies resources and food to other populations is a start in long­range movement towards real equity. 
jeffrey Choppin is a junior economics major from Washington, D.C. 
Card of thanks Dear Editor: On Sunday, March 20, a plane from Dallas to Chicago's Midway Airport --carrying a number of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu-· dents back from Spring Break -was diverted to Indianapolis and delayed, finally to arrive at O'Hare approximately eight or nine hours late. As a Notre Dame alumna and former Saint Mary's teacher, I am extremely gratified to hear that the students were polite, friendly, and of considerable help to my 80-year-old mother, also on the plane. Thanks! Eileen Donohoe Partition politics DearEditor: Being from Northern Ireland, I was par­ticularly intrigued by the article entitled "Patrician politics" which appeared in The Obseroer, March 25. Generosity is a virtue, or so I was led to believe until the Executive Editor, Paul McGinn, shared hi&, ignorance with us. The reunification of the two wings of the IRA, which he so blithely suggested, even if it were possible, would be irrelevant. The political sterility in Northern Ireland results from the intransigence ofthe "loyalist" com­munity and not from any schism in the ranks of the "freedom fighters." Further, the in- P. 0. BoxQ ference that the IRA, in any ofits degenerate Rice's very manner of framing the ques­forms, is representative of the nationalist tion ofauthority -"Who is in charge?" -is community is nonsense. The avowed goals profoundly misleading, because it confuses of the IRA are in stark contrast with the by combining the searching fidelity to truth results of its violence. They have polarized with the power charged to unify our com­the community and made reconciliation a mon action for the good. Our question formidable challenge and Irish unity a should rather be: "Who are the trustworthy dream. witnesses through whom we may cont1dent­Whilst I feel sure that the United States ly see the truth?" So refashioned, the ques­can contribute to the solving of our tion leads us to recognize that saints, problems, if McGinn's i~ · 1 example of the scholars, and even Church leaders may "American understanding of the struggle," rightfully serve as "voices of authority," but he and his accomplice, jack London, should none among them can be a "final arbiter" of donate absolute silence. truth. The reason that the pope should not It is said at home that when St. Pat I rick even claim to be a "t1nal arbiter" is given by banished snakes from Ireland, they all swam Jesus in the Gospel of Matthew: "You have over to England. I am surprised to see that only one Teacher -all the rest of you are some ofthem braved a transatlantic trip. brothers and sisters. And call no man father Hugh McManus on earth, for you have one Master, the Christ" (23:8-10). Rice's insistent appeal to the external authority of the papacy, whose teachings he says we must accept "whetherSeeking truth we agree with them or. not," is not even con­sistent with Catholic doctrine, which aft1rms Dear Editor: that there is no authority in this world ab­In replying to my demonstration ofhis dis­solutely normative for a person without the torted understanding of authority in the personal judgement ofconscience. church, Prof. Charles Rice simply restated We must embrace the truth where11er we his earlier position, as if merely repeating a discover it; it may tlourish as well among the misunderstanding could validate it. I Masai as the Curia. There is no escape from suppose that is fitting, because the only the unsettling challenge to muster courage reason Rice furnished for regarding the for the arduous journey into personal un­pope as "the final arbiter as to what is ob­derstanding, judgment, and action; the kind jectively true and right" was that popes and ofcertitude Rice wants to derive from papalcouncils tell us that the pope is "in charge." pronouncements is both unobtainable and That, of course, is not a reason at all; iit is uncommendable. It follows that neither about as convincing as "I was only following protessors nor students engaged in dis­orders" coming from a Nazi. ciplined theological retlection should  "unreservedly" accept the teachings of popes and councils; they should rather ac­cord such weighty resources the kind of deference and loyalty that is fitting for the custodians of the traditions marking us as God's people. When there is contlict or con­fusion, because of the variety of teachers in the Church, it may be some solace to recall jesus' promise that the Father gives the Spirit of truth to those who love him and keep his commandments (John 1-t: IS). Rice's 1-t years at the law school are ir­relevant to the matter of rightly construing the true cliaracter of church authority. But they should have prepared him for the truth that he should never use his authority as a teacher to relieve his students of the hardships of intelligent understanding and judgment. So it should be for the "voices of authority" in the church, understood as a community of disciples struggling one and all to be faithful to their one Master. Philip Foubert Ph.D. Candidate Department ofTheology Editor's Note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily space con­straints of the editorial page. Letters should be under 2SO words and address specitk issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author. Initials,and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reprod1:1ctions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subject to editing.  


-------------------------------~---------­
News Editor.............................. Bob Vonderheide

Editorial Board 
News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh


Xhe~======~=== 
Editor-in·Chtef............................ David Dziedzic
Box Q, Notre Dan.e, /.V 46556 The Obseroer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Department Managers 
Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci Business Manager ........................Daniel O'Hare
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi Controller............................................Alex Szilvas 
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa Saint Mary's Editor...............Anne Monastyrski Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Photo Editor....................................... Scott Bower Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
and the free expressionofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. (219) 239-5303 Founded November 3, 1966 
,. 
"'' 

~j1()11tS=/=J=~==i=e~~~~S========~=====================T=ue=s=da=y,=M=~=c=h=2=9,=1=9B=3===pa=ge=s= 
By The Obserz1er and The Associated Press 
The Women's Bookstore Tournament 
still has a limited amount of spaces remaining. Ifyou would like to sign up, call 6885 sometime before tomorrow. -The Observer 
The NVA golftourneywill be played after Easter 
break. The deadline for registration is April 12. The tournament is 
18-hole individual play and the winnner is determined by the lowest 
total score with a Callaway handicap. Tee times at Burke will be 
provided. The rounds must be played in twosomes and players must 
sign up for the tournament in pairs, although only individual scores 
will count. Players can sign up in the NVA office in the ACC or call 
239-6100. -The Observer 
Horseback riding is being offered by the NVA office to those students who are staying around over break. The rides are available at Sundance Stables in Mishiwaka on Saturday, April 2. Reservations must be made ahead oftime by bringing a S5 fee to the NVA office by March 31, 5:00p.m. The 55 fee covers an hour's worth of riding. At least five riders are needed per session or else reserva­tion times may be changed. First and second choice -times can be picked when the S5 is paid. Transportation to and from the stables will be free and provided by the NVA. Riders must sign up for a time, however. For further information, call 239-6100. -The Observer 


The Saint Mary's softball team's opening 
game against Grace College that was scheduled for today has been postponed for a later date. The Belles now will open their season against the Notre Dame softball club on April 5 at Notre Dame. The home opener for the Belles is April 7 when Valparaiso visits. A story on the team will appear in tomorrow's paper. ~ The Observer 
Kirt Bjorkparticipated in the American Hockey Coaches' Association Hockey All-Star game last night in the Met Center in Bloomington, Minn. It was a good chance for Bjork to showcase his talent for the NHL scouts. Jane Healey will have a full report on Bjork's performance in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 

continuedfrom page 12 
with me," recalls Moore. "He asked 
me if I would come up so that we 
could talk further. 
"When he called I was really excited about coaching at Notre Dame. It's something I guess that all coaches at one time or another think about -about what it would be like because the name is so highly thought ofall across the country. 
"Ofcourse I was excited about it," 

he continues. "I had another offer 
with a SEC school that, at the time, I 
just wasn't quite as excited about. 
But this makes a difference." 
When word spread that Moore 

was coming to arch-rival Notre 
Dame after nearly two decades at 
Alabama, one had to wonder if 
revenge had been one of the factors 
in his decision to jump schools. 
However Moore contends that 
revenge was not an element in his 
move. 
"I don't have that kind of feeling 

toward Alabama," he says. "I 
wouldn't hurt the school in anyway. 
I have a certain respect for it and I 
loved Coach Bryant. I have tried to 
respond in a way that maybe he would have handled it." 
Regardless of his reasons for com­ing to Notre Dame, Moore is here and quite happy to be coaching the running backs. On Saturday he got his first chance to see them in pads and he liked what he saw. 
The talent at the tailback position in 1983 may be the best and deepest that it has ever been in the history of Notre Dame football. Allen Pinkett, Lester Flemons, Greg Bell, and incoming Moeller prep star 
• • • Moore 
Hiawatha Francisco will all battle for 
the starting spot. 
"There certainly are some gifted young men," says Moore in reference to the tailbacks. "Normally in a competitive situation like this, the players seek and reach their level and they will decide most of the questions among themselves. 
"We hope to provide a really com­petitive atmosphere for them and expect the best ones to step for­ward," concludes the Irish rookie coach. 
After numerous seasons of coordinating an offense that ran the wishbone, Moore will be working with different offensive alignments at Notre Dame. However, do not be surprised ifone of the new offensive wrinkles next season is an occas­sional wishbone formation. 
"I can't say whether we'll run an option or not,," says Moore. "Normally in the spring, a team will look at different things. It's Coach Faust's decision. All our coaches have things they like and recom­mend. I like the option. But whether 
we use it, I don't know." 
In addition to his tutoring of the 

running backs, Moore will assist of­
fensive coordinator Ron Hudson in 
calling the plays. The ex-Crimson 
Tide coach will man the headset on 
the sidelines. Because he performed 
the same duty for the Bear, Moore's 
first season at Notre Dame will be 
similar to his years at Alabama in at 
least this one respect. Nearly every­
thing else will be a departure from 
his old way of doing things, though. 
However, he is not complaining. 
"I've been accepted awfully well by the coaches and the players in the short time I've been with them," says Moore. "The people in the com­munity and around the campus have been overly friendly. 
"Without question, the tradition at Notre Dame is awfully, awfully strong." 
But after 18 years of coaching for the Crimson Tide, Mal Moore is use to working with teams that have a strong football tradition. 

Racquetball pairings 
St~cond round pairings; to be played by Thursday, April?, with no extensions. 
Soha (8708) v. Pineda (288-3051) Roveda (1129) v. Staten (1208) Ansari (277-0849) v. Panchal (1940) Wicke (1760) v. McCabe (233­6068) Shank (288-3051) v. Hatfield (1064) 

Cindric (6703) v. Mclaughlin (272­1801) Fedorovich (277-0838) v. Gordon 
(6303) Richardson (233-6031) v. Elshoff (1166) Berens (1579) v. MUCCIO (1152) Ranger (1073) v. Record (277­5517) Pinhiero (1684) v. Schachner (8760) Miller (239-7323) v. Brown (3261) Schubert (3312) v. Albo (234-5414) H1ckey (1 004) v. Don1us (3185) Powers (277-1713) v. LaChance (81791 
Byes: Meakin, Brenton. Simpson, Mark::; 
Classified office hours: Notre Dame -9 
a.m. to 4 30 p.m.; Saint Mary's-noon to 3 p.m. Deadline for next-day serv1ce is 3 p.m. All ads must be prepaid, e1ther m person or through the mail. We reserve the nght to ed1t objectionable 
material.





Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING 
Jack1e Boggs 
684-8793 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
Expenenced Typ1st. Mrs. Bedford. 288­2107. Hours Mon. thru Fn. 8 am lo 5 pm 
Be a Certified Horse·s A--. Beautiful Wall Cert1ficale and Walle! Card. Only $3.00, Postpaid DAD's.Box 8225, Cenlralia, Il­linOis 62801 
TYPING IN MY HOME (RESUMES. LET­TERS, REPORTS, TERM PAPERS. ETC.). NEAT. ACCURATE WORK. REASONABLE RATES 233-7009 
Everyone IS go1ng CUCKOO!!! 
·ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S 
NEST 
Apnl7,8,9 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE IS now accept1ng applications for the poSition of ADVERTISING MANAGER for 1983-84 Deadline for all applicatiOns Apnl 6 
STAR TREK ll· The Wrath of Khan Eng1neenng Audlor1um 7,915,1130 Sponsored by K of C $1 . members tree 

LOST/FOUND \ 
LOST CANON AE-1 CAMERA BEFORE BREAK WILL PAY REWARD, NO QUESTIONS ASKED CALL 283-1388 ASK FORAL 
WHY DID YOU TAKE MY GLOVES OUT OF LOCKER No 151 AT MOREAU SEMINARY? REGARDLESS OF WHY YOU DID IT I WILL PAY THE RANSOM PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 1649 THANK YOU. 
Who lost a gold bracelet on th1s campus? Call R1ck at x1208 
LOST HELP! My backpack and books were snarfed from St Mary"s dmmg hall before break! Oh! How could it happen? REWARD Mega-bucks! call Chns 8174 
LOST IN ENGINEERING BUILDING My samty as well as a blue Edd1e Bauer down Jacket. Whereabouts last known Wednesday, March 23 Please call th1s clueless technocrat at x6931 Lost v1rgtmty Off-campus. of course Saturday n1ght. 
LOST--pa1r of blue pumps. after St Ed s Formal Were you at post-formal celebra­tion on 9th floor? Did you p1ck up my shoes by m1stake?!! I have yours... ! like them better, bul they are the wrong s1ze Please call and lrade back before Easier! 
LIZ x6825 
Please help I lost 40 dollars 1n the South Dinmng Hall last week If you found 11 please have p1ty on a poor starv1ng col­lege student and return 1t to Dave room 103 Alumn1. Thanks. 
LOST Bus1ness Analyst Calculalor 1n bathroom of Madeleva Monday after­noon. Please call Kelly 4380 1f you p1cked 11 up by acc1dent Thanks. 

FOR RENT 
Student Rental. 5-bedroom home $420 mo 233-6779. 
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo all ut1ht1es 1ncluded June or Sepl Call 319­322-8735 Patty 
Houses tor rent -Furn1shed. I m1 from campus 4-9 bdrm 2 baths Call 2773461 
Clean 3 BR Furn1shed 3 to 4 students 931 N Noire Dame Ave After 5PM call 232­0535 


I WANTED 
L.-----------~ 
NEED RIDE to Maryland or D. C. area for Easter break Will share driving & $$­please call Michele, 3793. 
I'm go1ng to Galesburg. IL for Easter I'll take nders to the the Quad City area. Call Bob8276 
NEED RIDE TO NEW YORK CITY AREA FOR EASTER. CALL MIKE 277-6880 
NEED RIDE TO NEW YORK CITY AREA FOR EASTER CALL MIKE 277-6880 
NEED RIDE TOFT WAYNE FOR EAS­TER CAN LEAVE THURS NOON PLEASE CALL KATIE 284-5515 
RIDERS WANTED TO CENTRAL TEN­NESSEE --LEAVING WEDNESDAY ­CALL SANDRA al284-5090 

Need nders for central PA Leavtng on the even1ng of March 30 (Wednesday) Call Sieve at 8727 
BUFFALO!! Desperately 1n need of a nde to BUF­
FALO lor Easter break Can leave by 
Tuesday noon Please call Jack at x8649 
Need nde to DC lor break Please call Karen at 7939 ' 
Need RIDE TO PURDUE FOR EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE $$. CALL JIM 8721 
need nde to Staunton.VA for Easter can leave anyt1me Thurs. call Steve 1855 
Need nde to Loogoolee Call Manlyn, 
1269  
NEED  RIDE  to  CHGO  
DWNTWN/OHARE AREA WED  aft  

CALL 1266/7 or 1684 
Need nde to CLEVELAND -Can leave Wed at noon -Call Joame x2244 
Wanted 2 roommates to share apjirtment w1th 2 female semors-to-be m 1983-84 Call Lynn at 6359 or 7607 for more deta1ls 
RIDERS NEEDED back from the Mln­neapohs/St Paul area aller Easter break Call Debbie al x3838 
WASHINGTON.D C Need nde-w11i share usual Bnan 1139 
RIDE NEEDED TO LISLE. ILLINOIS CAN LEAVE THURS AT NOON WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL BR BENEDICT AT 3787 
Need nde lo Monroe. Ml for Easter! 8602 
R1ders needed lo OMAHA lor Easler Can leave Wed allernoon Call Dan al8240 or 8285 
Ne&d RIDE lo CLEVELAND for Easier Call Jack 1588 
2 RIDES NEEDED TO ST PAUL. MN FOR EASTER CALL 4173 OR 4190 AT SMC 
n Need nde to Hilton HeadS C lor Easter Can leave Wed 03/30 PM Call Paul at 
1195 

NEED RIDERS TO DETROIT, WILL LEAVE THURSDAY PLEASE CALL MELINDA AT 6965. 

FOR SALE 
PEAVY PA SYSTEM 6 CHANNEL POWER MIXER. 2 CABINETS, 2 MIKES ALSO LIGHT SHOW. 3555 
FOR SALE: P.A. SYSTEM GOOD COND. CALL 277-0915 AFTER 10 P.M. 
For sale couch. cha•r. end-tables, stereo stand, carpets. Excellent cond1tton 283 ­1069 

PERSONALS 
NEED TO LOSE WEIGHT? CALL JANET 283-6808 for how to· 1nfol 
I need a nde to Boston tor Easter break W1111ng to share costs. dnv1ng. and load Call Jeb at 8641 Thanks 
Need nde to DELAWARE for break Can leave Wed W1ll share the usual Call Ed at 8639 
THEO MAJORS TONIGHT AT 1000 PM --FARLEY CHAPEL--PARTICIPATE IN THE FINAL LENTEN PRAYER SERVICE CONDUCTED BY PROF EILEEN KEARNEY 
Sl Edward s Hall 
Presents 
ONE FLEW OVER 
THE 
CUCKOOS NEST Apnl7.8.9 8PM Wash1ngton Hall AdmiSSIOn $1.00 

SOPHOMORES--CLASS OF 1985 
Do you w1sh to become mvolved 1n YOUR 
JUNIOR YEAR? Applicallons lor commiS­
Sioners and Jun1or Adv1sory Counc1l are 
available 1n the Student Act1v11ies Off1ce. 
1st floor LaFortune and are due back 1n the same off1ce Fnday, Apnl81h Lei's get Involved' 
To my dear husband. 

Thank you for cook1ng my mosl favonte d1nner and tor all the other thoughtlullhlngs you have been d01ng for me Hope you can never hear thiS enough--! LOVE YOU! 
To the young lady weanng red sweals and a red Fame sh1rt on Fn n1ghl m Graces Game Room I showed you how to play Frenzy & I d Sincerely like to gello know you Please call Frank at 1620 PAD law fraternity w1ll be present1ng a so­Cial concerns ftlm, What s Bemg Done 1n AppalaChia?" this Wednesday al 12 noon al the law school. Room 110. 
Need nde 10 MPLS area. Will shar<: ex­penses. Please call Sarah 1332 
Jack. Kenny. and JOhn, Thanx otra vez For the 11me of our lives and a stay at your place Tugboats. Shooters. and Summers were 
fun · The only th•ng mtsstng was a btl more sun Ja1ia1 was greal-we·re gamblers al heart The ··Mutmy· was ··class·· -never wanted 
Ia depart One th1ng was lack1ng. bes1des perhaps an Islander rani And that was our plane fare home after Seger had pia yed So lo g1ve you a chance to make up for the neglect We;re free for Easter, And 1ts.ff0m you we expect A tnp to Flonda, Hawai1 orCA Whatever you can frt .tnto your next 2 weeks of pay We re not askmg for much, cuz of course we deserve 01ore For adding hie lo the cohdo' -g1v1ng 11 
decor 
However tf you dtsagree. we could see tt 
your way 
Cuz next year Spnng BJ•k we need a 
plac~ to' sia.y : · 
Actually !hough. I never had more fun than stay1ng wttR y'pu fttree men Lauderdale had a whole new light -And we I hank you Aga1n 
The Sa1nt Marys Blue Mantle needs ENTHUSIASTIC. HARDWORKING. AND MOTIVATED PEOPLE TO ASSUME NEXT YEAR'S EDITOR AND GENERAL STAFF POSITIONS Applications may be picked up at the Stu­dent Act1v1t1es Off1ce DEADLINE Apnl 7 
ATTENTION SIGMA Mus The El1te. The W1ld & The Crazy The sand 1n your ha1r Lee. how d1d 1t really get there? Those BIG gnns and g1ggles 1n your sleep M S . what d1d you really do on I he dance floor? Instant phone calls and leffers. I hope he IS ready lor lhe.FACE! Sue! M A The p1ck up dn the beach How d1d hiS z1pper real/~c~' Y.nZipped? Caroline. another FACE::-: you weren t 
clowmng around when yo·u panyed w1th the R1ngl1ng Brolhers And Cara. lhanx mom for carrymg all your drunk ch1ldren rtC>~ne Yept rt was lun and next spnng break ..WE'RE THERE! 
Buy Absurder class..•eds. Deadline: 3 
p.m. al the Notre Dame or Sa1nt Mary·s Absurder (oops. Observer) off1ces. Last day to buy 1s Tuesday 
Tomorrow's the day hot off the presses, The Absurder hits your local newstand! 
DON T LET GRAVITY GET YOU DOWN! Come to lhe meeting of the Notre Dame L-5 SOCIETY Tuesday Mar 29th, 8pm 127 N1euwland Hear J Suszynsk1 talk about manned orbllmg Jabs Where are 
lhe SPACE lovers on th1s campus? Earth IS n1ce. but what do you know about space till you VISit? LETS GO! 
LEWIS HALL LIMERICKS There was a young wench from Oh10 Who danced every weekend With a smile­
a 
A lormal a mght Was her happy phghl Oh, when w1ll she ever slow down-a? 
by-Crazy Feet Too or 1-could-be-jealous-but-l'm-not -l-th1nk 
2 g~rls desp need nde to So Carolina Easter Brk 284-5095 
SPACE...the final frontier 
See STAR TREK II: The Wrath of Khan Wed and Thurs. niles al Eng Aud Support the K of C 
For the ladles who m1ss Steve and Martha. YOU WERE GREAT TO SLEEP WITH 
s1gned Our toots1es are warm now 
The Observer is always lhe Absur­derflll 
Ale1da and Gilda. You II were fantastiC!!!!! -your fans 
HEY JUNIORStltt LAST CHANCE TO SIGN UPI 1983 BAHAMAS TRIP TONIGHT! LAFORTUNE LOBBY 6 • 8 $150 DEPOSIT DUE 
Dear B1g Brolher. 
Thanks for the besl birthday present ever! You are wonderful!!!!! Love. your L1ttle S1ster 


The Observer 
• • . Baseball 
conllnuedfrom page 12 
"The other (Dayton) coach said the second home run in left field went through the bottom, he thought," remarked Gallo. "With a field that has a snow fence, you probably have to have six umpires to really make a fair call. To blame him (the t1rst !:lase umpire) is humanisti· cally cruel ... it b a tough thing to see." 
The game had ~tarted in good fas· hion for' Notre Dame. Within the t1rst six Irish hatter~. the Irish scored three runs. 
Shortstop Jack Moran started the game with a single. Chryst followed with a hit·and·run double which scored Moran. After a walk, DH Phil Dingle knocked in Chryst with a single to center. Dingle scored on a Jim Dee single after a runner had been thrown out trying to steal third. The explosion gave the Irish a 3-0 lead. 
In the second inning, Notre Dame extended its lead to S-0. After a walk and singles by Moran and Ch~J;st, the Irish scored two runs on a s'acrifice fly by Dingle and a passed ball. The five runs would be the last runs. of the day for the Irish. 
In the bottom of the inning, 
Dayton scored two unearned runs. 
With two outs and nobody oil, the 
Flyers made the score 5-2 on two 
singles and two Notre Dame errors. 
The first rain and hail storm of the 
day then delayed the. game for 20 
minutes in the fifth inning, before 
the Irish had their late-inning troubles. 
In the t1rst game at Miami, Irish pitcher Steve Whitmyer (0-3) balked to alloVI· the winning run to score from third base. 
"He (Whitmyer) did balk. No question," commented Gallo. "It was a blatant balk. It was too had it was the winning run." 
With the score tied l-I in the sixth, the Redskins started the bot­tom of the inning with a walk to Brian Koury. Koury advanced to second and then third base by way of a stolen base and a deep fly out to center. He then scored the winning run with two outs when Whitmyer, pitching from the wind-up, balked. 
The Irish scored their only run of 
the game with a solo home run by 
DH Dilvid· ·Clark in the second in­
ning. 
Miami's other run came in the 
t1fth. The inning began with a single 
that waS' misplayed by rightfielder 
Henry' Linge. After sacrificing the 
runner to second, Miami scored 
with a single. 
Whitmyer pitched the complete 
game for the Irish. He gave up only 
five hits for the game, two being in­
field hits. 
"If W~mak~ a; c.ouple of key plays 
defensi\;etr>· s7iid' Gallo, "I feel veiJ' 
positively· it :{the .lead) would've 
held up the way.~he~~Whitmyer) was 
throwing." 
The second Miami game was 
more of...tht; sam<:; as the Redskins 
took the l.ead with three of their six 
unearned runs in the sixth innning. 
The tltst runner of the sixth 
•

e ?1 rO·~R W~~:Es;~~~ ~:~~~~~::;s ~~~1
0:GANIZATIO:AL MEETING 


Mall to: The Far Side Book 

The Bookstore Captains' Meeting was held last night. As can be ex­



Onemo' 
pected, Duk Koo Kim and Herschel Walker were two of the more


time 
populartargetsfor the team names. 
2 
LaFortune Little Theatre 7:00PM Tuesday March 29 


• 
INTERESTED IN HELPING TO RUN 
INDIVIDUAL EVENTS???? 

reached base by way ofan error. The following batter knocked in the run with a double to put Miami ahead, -l-3. After the second out, Miami scored its second run in the inning on a Koury double. Koury proceeded to make the score 6-3 as he stole third and home. 
The Irish had a chance to tie the score in the seventh as they started out with a single and two walks to load the bases with one out. A line drive hit back to the pitcher by pinch hitter Mike Trudeau was the second out. A wild pitch followed which enabled a Notre Dame run to come in. After a walk to Dee, the Irish made the score 6-5 on a run again provided by a wild pitch. The game ended, however, on a fly out by pinch hitter Clark 
The Irish had begun the scoring in the game when DH Mike Doming led off with a single and eventually scored on a wild pitch. 
Miami tied and took the lead in the fifth on a two-out homer by DH Mark Mannering. The Irish tied it up a half an inning later on four walks 

given up by Miami pitchers. Notre Dame lacrosse co-captain Dan Pace unwindsfrom a sshot 
Bill Matre ( 1-2) took the loss for this weekend against Kenyon College. The Irish cruised to a pair of Notre Dame. He gave up only five l1ictories Ol1er the weekend, e11ening their record at 2-2 in the hits for the game. process. MikeSullil'an has more details about thegames on page 10. 

Men's tennis loses two matches over weekend 
By MARK B.JOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
As expected, Coach Tom Fallon's tennis team came up against some rather tough competition this past weekend a~ its season record lowered to 12-'i after losses to Ball State and Indiana l 'niversity. 
The first match of the road trip was against Coach Bill Richard's Car­dinals. It was the better showing of the weekend for Notre Dame as it won four decisive singles victories against Ball State. However, the Irish dropped a close S--t decision as they were unable to capture even one doubles match. 
Senior Mark McMahon and sopho­more \1ike <;ibbons, Notre Dame's top two singles player. led the charge for the 1rbh. The No. l player, Mc\1ahon, and the No. 2 Gib­bons both defeated their opponents in three sets. McMahon topped Andy Noldmoe, 2-6, '"'-S, 6-2, while Gib­bons took care of Tom Snelson, 1-6, 6-1,7-5. 
The rest of the day's singles matches lasted the minimum two sets. The third and fourth players for the Cardinals easily defeated their Irish counterparts, sophomore John Novatny, 6-1, 6-I , and freshman Joe Nelligan. 6-3. 6-4. However, Notre 
Dame's No. 5 and :'1/o. 6 players made 
up for the losses. Freshman Doug 
Pratt and junior Tim Noonan were 
victorious as they dropped their Ball 
State opponents by 6-2, 6-0 and 6-3, 
6--t margins. 
Ball State dominated double~ 
competition as it swept all but the 
No. I Irish team in straight sets. Even 
the No. I team had its problems, 
though, as Noonan and Novatm· lost 
in three sets to Noldmoe and Jell 
Surrat 6-3. 2-6, -,-6. The second Car­
dinal team had an easier .time of it 
against Notre Dame's Gibbons and 
sophomore Tom Pratt, blowing 
them out, 6-1, 6-1. · 
After defeat in Muncie, Fallon led 
his troops south to Bloomington to 
battle Coach Steve Greco's improv­
ing Big Red. The Irish were only able to win a lone singles and a lone doubles match as the Hoosiers dominated for a '7-2 victory. 
\1cMahon's record dropped to 9­H on the year as he lost a tough third set tiebreaker to Indiana's No. I. 3-6, 6-1, -,-6. Gibbons earned honors for Notre Dame's only singles victory as he topped Pablo Solar, ...,-S, ...,-S. lln­ti:>rtunately, Nelligan, Novatny. 
Doug Pratt, and Noonan did not fare as well as Gibbons as they all dropped their singles matches. 
c/o NotreD.IUlle~

' · 
<.•! If you have at least two years of college left, they can be 1! AD4rews uulllc:Meel, lac:. 4400 Johnson Drive 
1..: over $6,000 c-h.eaper. By ioining the Army Reserve and Army '' 
FaJrway. Ks. 66205

~~l ROTC at the same time, you earn two incomes--over $100 a ~--~ 
Please send me __ copies
~~ month as a Reservist, and $100 a month as an ROTC Cadet. J of The Far Side at $3.95 per 
i.

f~ ..i You grad.uate from ROTC a second lieutenant and continue ~1 
copy postage pald. Enclosed ls
k~1 in the Reserve as an Army officer. It's called the simultan­
---·Make check payable 
eous Membership Program. By joining the Army Reserve 
to Andrews and McMeel, In~ ~ now, you can take your paid initial entry training over the
.,,:J 

0 Check 0 Money Order 0 VISA 
~'i summer. You'll then qualify for Advanced ROTC programs at 
0 MOlter Charge' M011er Caro '_J over 800 colleges, universities. and cross-enrollment schools. If you'd like to learn more, stop by or call. 
Nam•--------------------­
Address _____________________ 
Clly ____:__________ Slate ZIP'------
Creillf COlO • 
s.Qnalure os on credit cOfa 
~ 


, 
__j 
----.. --·---· -~----------------­
The Observer Tuesday, March 29, 1983 -page 10 

The Oh~erver/John \'('achrcr 
james Patterson, sbown bere bolting from tbe starting blocks in tbe 400-meter relav, and bis lrisb teammates hosted the Notre Dame bn•itationai over the u•eekend. Although tbe weather was bad, tbe1 t rish nmners had a good meet, grabbing morefirsts than any.other team. Dean Sullivan has more details belou·. 
By MIKE SULUVAN 
.·lssistant .\jmrts J:'difor 
It took a little while to get things 
going. but whcn it ttnaliY did put it 
together. the Notre Dame lacrosse 
team routed two overmatched op· 
ponenh and got it~ \lithn·'t 
l.acro~~e A~sociation ~t·a~on ~tartcd on the right foot. 
The victories over Kenyon ( :ol· lege ( I'>·'>) on Saturda1· and Lake Fore~! College ( I'>·-) on Sunday were the team~· fir~t of the year l(>llowing a pair of lo~se~ to Ea~t Coast tl·am~. The \-11.:\ win on-r Kenyon was l'spt-cially important. 
"\X'e knew that once rhe thing~ we've heen trying to do start happening," ~aid Coach Rich O'Leary, "we should be ahle to handle a team with inferior talent. After a while we should be able to exploit their aggressivc:ness with good passing." 
That b precisely what happened 
as the Irish blew opc:n close games 
each time as the defense tightened 
and the offense began moving the 
ball around better. 
Ofknse was the major problem in 
the ~:arly going against Ml.A rival 
Kenyon. Notre Dame. which had not 
played for a week because of a snow­
delayed exhibition game, showed 
Notre Dame Invitational 


Track beats weather, rest of field 
Evens record at 2-2 

Lacrosse wins league opener 
By DEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Last Saturday, during a gusty after­noon with winds up to 25 m.p.h., the Notre Dame Invitational was held­sort of. Because of the blustery con­ditions, the coaches of the par­ticipating teams -Notre Dame, Marquette, Alma, Aquinas, Val­paraiso, and Southwestern Michigan -decided not to tally team stand-
However, Notre Dame seemed to conquer the weather and perform better than the rest of the field. Co­captain Steve Dziabis expressed 

what  was  probably  the  majority  
view.  
"Overall  we  looked  to  be  the  

strongest team out there," said the All-American. "Marquette had some good individuals hut we were better all-around." 
The numbers backed up Dziabis' 

Time For Just One More Ballroom Dance Class Before Summer Break 
The Ballroom Dance classes at ::,·aint Mary's have been very popular. 
Wednesday, March 30, will be the first lesson of a five week ballroom dance class that will be will be held on Saint Mary's campus in the Regina Hal/lounge basement from 8:30p.m. to 10:00 p.m. 
This class will be taught by Ray Sexton from Indianapolis and the total cost is only $25 for five weeks. 
Sign up now in the Saint Mary's Student Activities Office 284-4561 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY. 

the performances were ~ubpar due 
to the weather conditions, most of 
the Notre Dame athletes placed 
high. Notre Dame had eight first 
places and numerous second and 
thirds. 
Graduate student John McCloug­
han was the hig winner, taking two 
firsts in the I I 0-meter high hurdles 
and the 400-meter intermediate 
hurdles. His teammateJan Kania also 
joined him on the list of winners, 
breaking the tape first in the 400­
meter run. Co-captain Jim Moyar, 
just returning from injury problems, 
joined the winners by taking the 
800-meter run in an impressive fas­
hion. 
The three runners were not alone 
on t the Notre Dame victory list as 
there were a number of other good 
showings. Van Pearcy was one of 
these winners, heating the field in 
the 200-meter run. Junior Andy Dil­
lon was the l 500-meter champion 
while the 1500-meter relay team 
also paced the t1eld. 
In the field events, the Irish also 
fared well. Sophomore Chuck Con­
stable's high jump of six-fo(,)t-eight 
earned him tlrst place in the event, 
while in the javelin, senior Charlie 
Bradv and freshman Chris Bonde 
finished second and third to help the 
Irish cause. Freshman Gary Lekan­
der triple-jumped his way to a third 
place. 
Over the Easter weekend the out­
door season continues in Cape 
Girardeau, Mo., at the S.E. Motion 
Relays. The following weekend will 
be the last chance to catch the Irish 
at home as Notre Dame will host the 
Midwest Catholic Championships. 
400-METERS -I. Jan Kania. Nnrre Dame, -1<; .H. 2. Chn~ Rudyn~kl. \'alparaaso, ')O.O. :'1 "'en Darden. Val· 
para1~o. ';0. I 
llO·METER HIGH HllRDLES -I John Vh.:Cioug 
han, Nocrc Dame, 1-t.:t 1. Dewaync.• (,n<.:t:, ~oUlhWeM \1ich 1 ~otom. l-1 9 :\. M1ke Brennan. '\Jotre Dame. I.o; -~ 
1500-METER..Iii-l. Andy Oillt•n. :"'tutre Dame:. :\-'5~. 
1 Dave Kaluznn. Marqucne. -t:OO. ·' Ralph Caron. 
:\lotrc Dame.·. ·t :0 I 
LONG JUMP -I. Uarolll l·n. ValparaiMl, ll· I. l. john (ileason. ~otre Dame. 11·10 :"-Choulie Ro!'oc, 
~arquettt', l(P). 
HIGH JUMP -I Chuck Con~cahlt'. "lolrt· Dame:. 6·H. 2 joe ~hoe.makc:r. Alma, 6-2. ;\..\1arvm jenkin!'t, Southwc:M \1ichiJY1n. 6-.2. 
JAVELIN-I tlerh Srrill. ~outhwe~l ~h.:hi~an. 20-i· 
6. 2. Charlie Hrady. Notre: Dame, I "7_~-H ..~. Pal Hontlc:. Notre Dame:. 16........ 
SHOT PUT -I. ja~· 'Andrew~. Valp01rabo, t6· I. 2 t-'rank Ric:ly. ~otrc: Dame. -t'S-H. -~ Oave fran·, Aquina~. 
.... ,..... 
400-METER HURDLES -I john Md:lou~han. 
!'lmn: dame. -;6.:\. 2. lkwayne (fric.:c:. ~uuthwc:st Michi­
l(an, 'S6.'S. :\. Slu \il'Ciunl(. Valparaiso. 'S9 I 
800-METERS-l.jim ~oyoar. Noire Oame. I:'S:\.0. 
2. Jim Tyler. :'\lotre Ooame, I.'S-t .. ~ ..-\ John Mc.:Nel\~. Noire Dame. 1:~-i.-. 
20()-METERS-l. \"an Pc:arc.·r. Nurre: Damt.". 2l.n. l. Doc .\1c:rc.:c:r. Alma. 2:\.l. :\.Jon \l'a~·land. \1ar4uenc: 
the efkct~ of the layoff by dropping passe~ and throwing the hall away. Fortunately. Kenyon was having similar dilficultks. 
"Kenyon wa~ as new (as far as playing time) as we were." c:x­plainnl O'l.c:ary. "Always at the beginning of game~ you're finding out what the other team h doing and they're finding out what you're doing, because it's not like we scouted ~:ach other. The first part of the game is an adjustment period." 
l'or the first ltHtr minutes of thl· 
game. it ~eemed that the lrhh had al­
readv adjusted. Boh Trvcchi scored 
on :1 ~tt:ve · P~:arsall· ,p;1ss thirty 
seCOlllb into the game: itQU.f-'=4f~aJI 
added a goal of his own three 
minutes later to give Notre Dame a 
quick 2-0 lead. _ 
llowcver. things started -~ctting ~loppv ;Is the Irish could not c<introl the b~ll on oft'cn~e. Ken'y.!)n rook ad­vantage of the offensive·problems to tie the game. As time was running out in the quarter, tho::lgh, Notre Dame came up with the, blg play it needed. 
The Irish had the ball down in their end ofthe field and were trying to clear it out of the zQne. Defen­seman Jus!in~ Shay stM;prised Kenyon by heaving tlk hall fu{ c!,.<.nvn the field to Trocchf''Who was uperi 'near the Kenyon goal.-Trocchi !O<ik the pass on the fly, cut in front of the goal, and shot it past the goalie t(>r a 3-2 Irish lead. 
"They (Kenyon) were trying to make sure the middies didn't get the ball, so they neglected the attack­men," said O'Leary. "That kind of thing sometimes has an effect on a team psychologically." 
The play seemed to turn the game around as Notre Dame became more aggressive and Kenyon never recovered. 
Another Trocchi goal (he had five for the game) increased the lead to 4-2, and, after Kenyon scored to pull within one, Tom Grote, joe Franklin, and Pearsall all scored to bump the lead to 8-3 at halftime. 
The second half was no contest as 
Notn: Dame ~n>rnl the fir~t thrn· 
goab of the halt and Kenyon could 
not ligure out the Irish defense. 
Trocchi led the ~otrc: Dame at· 
tack with the: go.tb and an a~stM. 
(,rote contrihutnl three goab and 
two assists. whilt: l'ear~all had two of 
c:ach. Ju~tin Driscoll. Franklin. Kn·in 
~mith, and Joe ll.1rt rounded out the 
'coring. 
Pat Poletti ~tartcd in the: goal for 
O'Leary. playing a solid game and 
finishing with I I sa\·e~. 
The Lake h>rc't matd~was ~ir111lar 
to thl· Kcnvon game, except that it 
took about .1 halt to work out the 
kinks. The lnsh once again opened the scoring as Joe: IIart tossl·d one in the goal from outside. llowcvc:r. the edge did not la't long as Lake Forest surprbc:d its hosts with two quick goab. 
Franklin tradcd goals with Lake 
Forest. tying the score at the end of 
the: first quarter. But Lake Fort:st 
tilt:~ scored thrlT of the next ti>ur 
goals to. take a 6--t lc:ad. 
..~·c-·_got tired out real quick," cx­
plaitkci: .O'Leary. "We were tired 
from yesterday's (Saturday's) game 
and had to get people on and off the 
field. It let them get some easy goals 
because we were chasing thcm 
af.ou\id. 
"Bui you only get tircd because you think you are. Once you start moving, you arcn't tired anymore and you.play smarter." 
Trailing by two, Notre Dame real­
ly go! moving and scored 11 of the 
last 12 goals of the game. 
Franklin had four goals to lead the Irish, while Driscoll, Mike Quinn, and Kevin Rooney each scored two. Poletti, after a shaky start, played an­other good game, stopping 18 Lake Forest shots. 
IRISH ITEMS -The two vic­tories raise Notre Dame's record to 2-2 ... Next up for the Irish is the Michigan Lacrosse Club which comes to Cartier Field on Wednes­day evening. The exhibition game was originally scheduled for last Wednesday but was postponed by snow. The match will start at 7 p.m. 




DePaul, Fresno State advance to NITfinale 
NEW YORK (AP)-Fresno State exploded to a 14-point halftime lead behind Ron Anderson and Bernard Thompson and went on to a surpris­ingly easy victory over Wake Forest 86-62 last night in the semifinals of the 46th National invitation Tourna­ment. 
The Bulldogs earned a berth in 

tomorrow night's final against the 
winner oflast night's second game at 
Madison Square Garden -DePaul. 

Fresno State, from the Pacit1c Coast Athletic Association, virtually settled last night's opener with a 38­24 halftime lead built largely with the help of Anderson and Thompson, who scored 10 points apiece in the opening 20 minutes. 
They then delivered the knockout blow at the start of the second half by outscoring the Atlantic Coast Conference Deacons 13-4 during a stretch that gave the Bulldogs a 59­36 lead with I I :30 left in the game. 
With their red-dad fans from Calif(>rnia roaring them on, the Bul­ldogs led by as many as 28 points twice before the one-sided contest was over. 
The only thing Wake Forest fans had to cheer ahout all night was a hrieftlurry midway through the tlrst half during in which the Deacons outscored Fresno State I 1-6 to cut the Bulldogs' lead to 2+20 with 6:05 remaining heti>re intermi5sion. 
However, Anderson then scored six of his points to lead a 14---! burst that propelled Fresno State into its hefty halftime advantage. 
Anderson was the game's high scorer with 2--1 points, while Thompson added 23 for Fresno State, which won its 1 1 th game in its last 12 and improved its record to 24-10. 
DePaul68, Neb. 58 

NEW YORK (AP)-DePaul blew a hefty 15-point lead but pulled away in the last six minutes behind some cool foul shooting and key points from Tyrone Corbin to beat Nebraska 68-58 last night, moving the Blue Demons into the tina! ofthe 46th National Invitation Tourna­ment against Fresno State. 
The nightcap at :vJadison Square Garden was in sharp contrast to Fresno State's runaway win in the opener. 
DePaul broke away from an early tie with 1 5 straight points midway through the first half to lead 23-8 before the Husker~ of the Big Eight Conkrence stormed back to dose within 31-29 behind the shooting of Claude Renfro, who scored II of his 13 points in the first half 

DePaul's lead at the half was 36· 31, and Nebraska eventually came hack to tie it at 52-'>2 late in the second half with a one-man perfor­mance by Dave Hoppen, who scored 
1 1 straight points for Nebraska at one stage. 
But, with DePaul leading 56-5-i with 6: I 5 in the game, the Blue Demons used the free throw line to salt the game away. Corbin hit three foul shots and a basket in a 12·2 run that put the Blue Demons up 68-56 with jO seconds remaining. 


Ihe~~r========================================= 


~~4()l~~============================Tu~e~s=d=ay='=M=~=c=h=2=9='=1=9=8=3===p=ag=e=l=l
Bloom County Berke Breathed 


/{)U GIRL '5 W/INT (/~ GIJYS 
Ill/ H/1/ sur YOtl cNL r

m QUIT BEIN& ?!llfll#O!O 
WIJNT Til£ 1r1611T GU'YS

1/#0 To (1/l{ 11M£ OFT£"' 
Campus 
•12: 
15 p.m. -Workshop, "Substitution Between Wage and Non-Wage Benefits," Steve Woodbury, :H3 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Research at the Univer· sity: Past, Present, and Future," Dr. Robert E. Gor· den, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Molecular Genetics of Baculoviruses," Dr. Malcolm J. Fraser, Jr., Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

•5 
p.m. -Mass, and Rite of Reception Into Full Communion With the Roman Catholic Church, Sacred Heart Church 

•7 
p.m. -Little Sib Organizational Meeting, for people who want to help with committees, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation, "Juniors: Preparing for Your Career Decision," Paul Reynolds, 118 NSH 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Jesus Christ Super· star," Chautauqua, Sponsored by NDSU, SI 

•7, 
and 9 p.m. -Film, "Death of a Bureaucrat," Social Concerns Center Auditorium, Free 

•7, 
9:15 and II :30 p.m. -Film, "The Front," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, 


Sl 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Samurai Trilogy Part Ill." 117 Haggar Hall, Sponsored by Asian Studies, SI 

•8 
p.m. -Economics Debate, "Economics for the '80s," Geroge Gilder vs. Robert Reich, Library 





Tuesday, March 29, 1983-page 12 

.. 
The Observer/john Wachter 
Mal Moore, shown here in his first day ofpractice as a Notre Dame football coach, brings an impressive string of credentials from Alabama where be served 18 years as one ofBear Bryant's assistants. Moore will assume the position ofrunning back coach. Steve Labate's story at the right is thefirst part ofa two-partfeature on the newest coach on Gerry Faust's staff 

'... 
By MAITJOHNSON 

Sports Writer 
During the 22-year tenure ofHead 
Coach Mike DeCicco, the Notre 
Dame men's fencing squad has 
amassed some mighty impressive 
numbers: two national champion­
ships, two championship runners­
up, 16 seasons finishing in the top 
ten in the nation. I 1 seasons with 20 
or more wins, 4 I 2 team victories for 
a whopping overall winning per· 
centage of .913, and the establish­
ment of 19 All-Americans. 
But, for all the records and glory 
that has been heaped upon the 
Notre Dame fencing program, it is 
interesting to note that, in 22 years 
of Irish fencing history, only four of 
the multitudes offencers have been 
skilled or lucky enough to go all the 

way and capture an individual first 
place in the NCAA Championships. 
Pat Gerard won it in 1977 along 

with teammate Mike Sullivan. In 
1978, Sullivan repeated as national 

champion along with teammate 
Bjorn Yaggo. And, this year, junior 

epeeist Ola Harstrom notched his 
name in Irish history by winning the 
Gold Medal as the Irish barely lost 
the national title to defending cham­

pion Wayne State. 
What's more astounding than ac­
tually winning the national 

championship is the rocky road that 
Harstrom had to travel to ac­

complish the feat. 
After posting an impressive 18-2 

record as a freshman, the Gothen­
burg, Sweden native suffered 
through his sophomore campaign with a foot injury that he could not shake. Surgery earlier this season corrected the ailment, but he got off to a slow start while trying to recover completely. 
"It was mentally tough trying to get my act together earlier this season," says the mechanical engineering major. "I had not been doing as well as I could have because of my injury. But because of it, the national title is more gratifying." 
But. rather than seeing his title as an individual accomplishment, Harstrom is quick to credit his teammates with a leading role in his success. 
"It's been a great year with everyone having a part," say Harstrom. "Ifall the kids are not out there practicing every day, then no one can reach the nationals, much less win them." 

0/a Harstrom 
Harstrom, who was introduced to fencing at the age of 10 and lured to Notre Dame by former Irish national champion Yaggo, stresses the team concept over the individual in all his references to the 1983 fencing squad. 
"We didn't win the (team) nation­al championship, but it was a great team effort anyway," says Harstrom. "It was frustrating to take second place but the team did a great thing. It is just too bad that the record doesn't show how many people had an effect on the tina! standing." 
Unfortunately, however, the Irish 

New running back coach 
'Barna's Moore joins Faust's staff 
By STEVE LABATE 
.\ports Writer 
Editor's note: This is the first ofa · two-jJart feature on the newest member ofthe Irish coaching staff. Mal Moore. Moore is the neu• run­ning back coacb after spending the last 18 years at Alabama. Tbisfirst part deals zl'ith Moore's arriz>al at Notre Dame. 
Although several coaches have 

been jostled within the staff and for­
mer coach Brian Boulac has kft for 
the athletic administration oftlces, 
there has been onlv one addition to 
the Faust cabinet since the final gun 
sounded at llSC last November. That 
one addition has come from the Uni­
versity ofAlabama in the form of Mal 
Moore. 
Moore takes over as Norre Dame's 

running back coach after spending 
18 years with the coaching legend, 
Paul "Bear" Bryant. From 1965 to 
1970, Moore coached the defensive 
secondary for the Bear. Then, for 
three years, he was in charge of the Tide quarterbacks betore becoming offensive coordinator in 1974 -a position which he held until 1982. 
During his tenure as offensive coordinator, the Tide compiled a 92-1 5-1 mark while averaging 396.6 yards and 28.9 points per game and winning National Championships in 1978 and 1979. 
But, last December, the. changing of the guard finally took place as Bryant called it a career. The 43­
National epee champion 

Harstrom thinks ofteam, not title 
won't have the services of this team 
player next year, as Notre Dame will 
lose him to early graduation. As for 
the future, Harstrom suspects that 
he will be competing with his fen­
Ling club in Sweden next year. 
There is no doubt that, even when he returns to Sweden, he will fondly remember the 1983 NCAA National Championships. 
"As much as losing the National Championship was frustrating, the team and I are still happy with the results." 
year-old Moore appeared to be the natural heir to Bryant's vacated head coaching spot, but, in a surprise an­nouncement, the un·iversity named former Crimson Tide wide receiver Ray Perkins to take over. Ar the rime of rhe hiring, Perkins was the coach of rhe NFI.'s New York (iiants. 
Spring Football '83 
'.Vhat · looked like Mal Moore·~. golden opportuniry rurned our in­stead to be one of his most dis­appointing setbacks. 
"It was very disappointing," admits Moore. "I had been with Alabama quite a long time. It was special for me, and I hated to see one of the coaches on our staff not get the job." 
t:pset, hut not hitter over Perkins· appointment. ~oore decided that his exit would coincide with 
Bryant'~. 
"I had a talk with Coach Bryant a week or so before Rav came and I told him that I was leaving," recalls the Dozkr, Ala. narive. 
Enter GerrY Faust. 
Soon after Moore made the an· nouncement that 1982 would be his last on rhe Tide sidelines, Faust con­tacted him to see if he would be in­terested in working north of the Mason-Dixon line. 
"Coach Faust called and talked 
see MOORE, page 8 

Errors give baseball team three close losses 
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 
DAYTON, Ohio-Giving up two 

controversial homers, six unearned 
runs, and a balk to score a winning 
run, the Notre Dame baseball team 
lost three one-run games this 
weekend on the road. On Saturday, 
the Irish were defeated 2-1 and 6-5 
by undefeated Miami (Ohio) Uni­
versity. In a rain-shortened game 
Sunday, Notre Dame lost to Dayton 
University 6-5. The losses lowered 
the Irish record to 3-1 1. 
"We were out to get ourselves," stated Irish coach Larry Gallo after the team committed 13 errors, allowing ten unearned runs out of the 14 scored against them this weekend. "The weekend was real tough to swallow. Miami's not a bet­ter team than us. I don't care if they're 13-0 -I don't care ifthey're 43-0. They're not a better team than we are. Dayton surely isn't." 
In the Dayton game, the Irish were leading 5-4 going into the bot­tom of the sixth inning. The first three Flyer batter of the inning loaded the bases on three Irish in­field errors. After a force out at the plate, Dayton took the lead with a 
two-run single to left off Irish pitcher GregJaun ( 0-1 ). 
One batter later. the second hail and thunderstorm of the dav ended the game. · 
Since the game ended in the 
middle of the Dayton's at bats, there 
was questioning whether the last 
partial inning counted. Some 
thought that the official game only 
included the last complete inning, 
thus a 5-4 Irish victory. However, 
the rule book verified that the partial 
inning was official since it was in the 
bottom halfofthe inning. 
In the fourth inning, Davton had tightened a 5-2 score to 5-4 on two controversial home runs off of Irish starter Mark Clementz. The first solo home run, offa hanging curve ball to designated hitter Tim Josten, went over the fence after breaking off the top of the red wooden snow fence. The umpire called it a home run. 
The umpire also called the follow­ing hit a home run even though Notre Dame's left tlelder and center­fielder, Rick Chryst and Steve Pas­sinault, contested that the ball went through a hole at the bottom of the fence. 
see BASEBALL, page 9 

A lack ofprofessionalism 
Is this Notre Dame? 

After the way the athletic department demoted the 
Irish hockey team to non-varsity status, I have some 
serious doubts. 
I'm not going to sling mud at Executive Vice­President Father Joyce. Nor am I going to worship and :-raise the players effected by the decision. 
Notre Dame has alway> been praised, most recently by John Underwood'sSports Illustrated article, for sin­cerely exemplifying the highest collegiate ideals. The administration has been recognized for its strong com­mitment to the balance between athletics and academics. Heck, according to Underwood, this univer­sity is approaching utopia. 
With such an idyllic image and such a broad scope of intercollegiate athletic experience involved, we expect standards to be upheld. We expect decisions to be well thought out and well planned. We expect those deci­sions to be carried out with concern for the student­athlete. We expect the University to act with the class and dignity that we can respect. 
Unfortunately, back on the weekend ofJanuary 14­1 5, those expectations were shattered. 
On that Friday, after a quickly arranged meeting be­tween Joyce and parents of the Irish players, the news leaked out that the future of Notre Dame hockey was in jeopardy. It was the beginning of an unceasing wave of rumors. Did Sean Regan's father really come up with S2 million? Was coach Lefty Smith really going to stay as Mr. Gene Corrigan, Athletic Director, stated? Did Father Joyce really leave the country after the news came out? 
Jane Healey 
Assistant Sports Editor 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil:iiilii 

For two weeks the program was in limbo. For two 
week;s the 26 underclassmen could only wonder and 
guess about their future while the inquiries and the gos­
sip floated around the north dome. 
Is that the way the future ofNotre Dame's third major 
sport is suppose to be decided -amidst uncertainty, 
vicious rumors, and bitter feelings? 
Smith wasn't even asked if he would stay -he was 
informed he would. The players weren't even con­
tacted until after the leak -when it was absolutely 
necessary. There was no rime allocated for interested 
parties to organize a serious effort to save the program. 
There was only time for frantic guessing and angry las­
hing out. 

No one can question the decision. It's final. But we 
can question the way in which the decision was made. 
We can question whether the administration was acting 
under its famed tradition of devotion to the student­
athlete. We can question whether the decision was 
well-planned and executed with dignity and class. 
Can we respect the University for the wav the hockev 
situation was handled? · · 
I seriously doubt it. 






