• • • College Center -page 6 
By CATHYPAX 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
The unilateral freeze referendum that was defeated at Notre Dame on Tuesday passed at Saint Mary's yes­terday with a 54 percent share ofthe 
vote. 
The referendum was viewed "as a moral choice at Saint Marv's" said senior joann Holland. a fre~z~ coali­
tion worker at Saint Mary's. This view is different from the one that prevailed at Notre Dame where much political controversv and debate surrounded the issue.­
The politics overshadowed the 
moral issue at Notre Dame. Holland 
believes. 
72 percent of the student bodv voted on the issue, with 54 percent 
in favor, 32 percent against, and 14 percent abstaining. Only one faculty member at Saint Mary's voted. 
The referendum calls for a uni­lateral freeze by the United States as a tlrst step to mutual disarmament. 
Holland believes the referendum had a strong, positive effect on the Saint Mary's student body as it forced "many people who don't usually think about politics, con­sider an important issue." This was the tlrst political issue ever to be decided on a ballot at Saint Mary's, 
Holland said. 
No active group opposed the referendum on the Saint Mary's campus as the College Republicans did at Notre Dame. 
New student body Presidents elected 
Notre Dame 
By PATRICK MULLEN 

Campus Campaign Reporter 
Brian Callaghan and Peggy Prevoznik were elected student body president and vice president in yesterday's runoff election. Callag­han and Prevoznik beat their op­ponents Tim Connolly and Jim Leous by a 62.6 to .37.4 percent mar­gin. 
Campus ,
* Campaign '83 
The runoff was held because Tuesday's general elections failed to produce a majority vote for any of the Student Body President/Vice President candidates. Fifty percent is needed to elect a president in the general elections. 
Fifty-the percent of all Notre Dame students showed up at the polls. The turnout was less than that for Tuesday's general election, in which 65 percent of the students voted, "but," said Ombudsman's Election Coordinator John Quinn, 
"it was still significant considering the fact that there was no referen­dum and that it was a runoff elec­tion." 
Forty-two percent of the student body voted in last year's runoff. 
President-elect Callaghan was also impressed with the turnout, but more than anything, he said, he was impressed with "the quality of the competition and the absence of bit­ter rivalry." 
Callaghan commented that the fact that he and Prevoznik won had little to say about the quality oftheir opponents. "Sometimes a majority," he said. "means all the fools voted the same way." 
Callaghan and Prevoznik will take office on April I. "In the meantime," · said Callaghan, "we're going to have to go through a transition period. Peggy and 1 are going to have to work closely with the current Stu­dent Body President and Vice Presi­dent Lloyd Burke and Bob Yonchak in order to get a feel for what's going 

· on before we take office." Callaghan said that he and Provoz­nik have no radical plans for when they take office. "We're planning to get a few things done between April l and the end of the school year, such as having the Engineering Auditorium and LaFortune tlxed up. But besides that we'll only be able to start making definite plans in the coming weeks when we start working with Lloyd and Bob." 
When asked about his running mate, Callaghan said that Vice President-elect Peggy Prevoznik is a 
see ND page3 
Saint Mary's 
By TONI RUTHERFORD 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
The sole ticket for student body officers was elected yesterday at Saint Mary's when 80 percent of the student body voted. 
Elaine 1-!octer, Student Body President, Lee Ann Franks, Vice­President for Student Affairs, and Madeline Hoch, Vice-President for Academic Affairs were elected with an 87 percent vote in yesterday's elections. Only tlve percent of the voting population voted against the Hocter ticket, while seven percent 
see SMC page 5 

james Coate_v of the Department of State in-careers in yesterday's Goz•en1ment Career Day. forms these two Notre Dame students ofpossible 
Hageman, Manion runoff 

Bertino, McA-voy win in Senate 
Student Senate 
By TOM MOWLE 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
Rob Bertino and Dave MeA voy won run-off elections to the Student Senate yesterda t y. 
Bertino defeated Flounder Bris­son in District 1, 544-.368, while McAvoy held a 6I -i-51 0 margin over Alison Yurko in District .3. 
Bertino took 84.5 percent of the vote in Lewis on the way to his vic­tory. The Alumni sophomore also won in his own dorm, Holy Cross, and by a small margin in Sorin. 
Dillon was the only dorm McAvoy 
won, but his 2 7I-II victory brought 
him a comfortable victory. Yurko 
was backed most strongly in Morris­
sey and Pangborn, each ofwhich she 
carried by over 50 votes. 
Bertino was "very hapvy to have 
won," and was "pleased with the results in Alumni, Holy Cross, and especially Lewis." He felt "Flounder was a very worthy opponent"; now he is "ready to get to work." 
McAvoy was "extremely pleased" and thanked "especially those in the hall." The Dillon junior believed "both opponents were qualified people." He also looks forward to working with the President and Vice-President, and hoped not to let down the people who voted for him. 
Class Officers 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
A runoff between the Hageman ticket of Cara Hageman, president; Michelle Lopez, vice-president; Mary Ann Potter, treasurer; Martha Jones, secretary and the Manion ticket of Michelle Manion, presi­dent; Maureen Karnatz, vice-


Sharon resigns defense post 
JERL'SALEM (AP) -Arid Sharon resigned as Is­
raeli defense minister this morning following a 
government decision to adopt all the t1ndings of the 
Beirut massacre commission, Israel radio said. 
The radio said Sharon had agreed to hand the 
defense portfolio to Prime Minister :\1enachem 
Begin and would leave the Defense Ministrv Mon­
day. It said Sharon would remain in the Cabin~t with 
a different portfolio. 
The Cabinet had voted 16-I yesterday to accept 
all the commission's recommendations. But Sharon 
initially indicate he would refuse to step down. 
Cabinet ministers had emerged from their live­and-one-half-hour meeting yesterday ~aying they were stalemated by Sharon's resistance to resigna­tion. Although the Cabinet has the power to take the defense portfolio away from Sharon, only Begin could remove him from the Cabinet. 
Justice Minister Moshe Nissim had said the Cabinet decision to accept the commission's recom­mendations in full meant Sharon had to quit. But Energy Ministry Yitzhak :\1odai told reporters Sharon was balking. 
Israel Army radio said Sharon argued at length ag­gainst the report, claiming that it "branded a mark of Cain" on Israel by saying it was indirectly respon­sible for the massacre. 
While the Cabinet met, a grenade explosion less that I00 yards away killed one of about 100 demonstrators demanding that Sharon be tired, and wounded nine people, including three policemen. 
The masssacre commission called for Sharon's resignation tor letting Lebanese militiamen into the Sabra and Chatilla refugee camps despite the threat that they would slaughter civilians. 
president; Patty Nolan, treasurer; andJanet Saas, secretary will be held to determine junior class officers in Saint Mary's class elections yester­day. Approximately 65 percent of the class voted. 
Campus ,* Campaign 83 
There will be a runotl" to decide sophomore class officers between the Harmon ticket ofJulie Harmon. president; Mary Sauer, vice presi­dent; Theresa Hardy, treasurer;janet Biegel, secretary and the Kollman ticket of Anne Marie Kollman, presi­dent; Sheila Flood, vice president; Gretchen Wroblewski, treasurer; and Kathi 1-iartweger, secretary. 
'8 percent of the class voted. 
No figures were available as to 
how close the races were. 
The runoff election will be held on Tuesday in the dorm lobbies from 9 a.!Jl. to 6 p.m. 
Kathleen Murphy, Denise Drake, 
Maggie Walsh and Beth Aistorpe 
were elected senior class officers 
with 72 percent of the class voting. 
Murphy is currently student body 
president. 
Campaign Chairperson Monica Gugle said the !-Iarmon-Kollman race was "pretty close" with a 78 

percent turnout. Hageman's ticket hopes students will "use good judgement and look at our experience" when they return to the polls Tuesday. Manion could not be reached for comment. Kollman's ticket vows to "keep fighting." 
"We will wholeheartedly con­tinue to campaign," she said. 
Harmon's ticket is also ready to campaign again. "We would like to maintain our support and hopefully tum more support our way," she said concerning the runoff. 
-



lr---------. ---­
ewsBrieis 
By The Ohseruer and The Associated Press 
Father }runes Burtchaell, Professor ofTheology at Notre Dame, has been named recipient ofa Christopher Award for his recent book, Rachel Weeping, a collection ofessays on abortion. First given in 19.f9, the Christopher Awards honor people respon­sible for works affirming the values ofthe human spirit while exhibit­ing artistic and technical excellence. Other authors honored by the 1983 Awards are Richard Reeves, forAmericanjourney; andJonat­han Schell, for Let the Tnunpet Sound: Tbe Life of,Hartin Luther King, jr. Father Burtchaell is a specialist in biblical theology who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1966. He was chairman of Notre Dame's Department ofTheolOh'Y from 1968 to 19'0 and University provost from 1970 to 1977. -The Observer 
Workers at a Missouri day-care center kept children indoors yesterday and parents expressed concern after health officials revealed they had found of traces of toxic dioxin in 
• te lawn. "I'm concerned and I know other parents are concerned too." said Saundra Bennett, who was at the United Methodist Church to lunch with her S-year-old son Larry. "But we just don't know enough yet." The Environmental Protection Agency announced Wednesday that it had found dioxin in the soil at seven new places around St. Louis, bringing to 22 the number of confirmed sites in Missouri. But tests at 14 other sites showed no trace ofdioxin, which is a chemical by-product from the manufacture of pesticides. Tests from II other sites are still being analyzed, and more than SO suspected sites are still unchecked. EPA officials went to the Met­hodist church Wednesday to announce that they had found dioxin at concenrrations of two to four parts per billion over a gravel road, which has since been covered with asphalt and a lawn. None of the samples came from play areas, said Rowena Michaels oftt.e regional EPA oftice in Kansas City. -AP 
Environmental Protection Agency chief Anne M. Gorsuch and 36 other EPA officials were subpoenaed yes­terday in the escalating battle between Congress and the administra­tion over handling of the "superfund" cleanup of toxic wastes. The House Energy and Commerce investigations subcommittee demanded information about the agency's overall enforcemenr policies as well as detailed data relating to five specific waste dis· posal sites. Among those summoned were Gorsuch; former Assistant Administrator Rita Lavelle, who was fired by President Reagan this week; 3S other EPA staffers in Washington and California, and a broad range of agency documents. The EPA said it would have no immediate comment on the subcommittee's action. Meanwhile, the 
White House was becoming more involved n the burgeoning 
dispute, which already has produced a constitutional battle over a 
contempt of Congress charge against Gorsuch. Larry Speakes, 
deputy White House press secretary, said President Reagan was 
briefed on the developments and that Counsel Fred Fielding "is 
looking at the situation over there (at EPA)." -AP 
Addicted to Pac-Man and other video games, some young denizens ofJapan's video arcades are turning to crime to sup­port their habit with a professionalism police hardly expected from "boys in short pants and baseball hats." In Tokyo, four groups of 36 boys aged eight to 13 were apprehended for breaking into homes and shops and stealing cash, valuables or merchandise in order to "spend lavishly in video-game arcades," according to a police offi­cial. The police report did not mention motives, but officials say some boys, discouraged by the rigid, competitive Japanese school system and having few outlets for recreation, spend long hours in video-game centus -a habit that can be very expensive. In early February, police in the northem Japan city of Sendai discovered a gang of five boys aged 10-11 whose criminal patterns, they said, resembled adult organized crime. Using bicycles, the five would scout a likely-looking house, car or shop. After throwing a stone through a window to see if anyone was inside, some of the youths would act as lookouts while a chosen "breaker" entered to steal money or valuables. -AP 
An inmate at the Indiana state reformatory was indicted by a federal grand jury yesterday for threatening the life of President Reagan on three separate occasions. In the three-count indictment the grand jury charged that William Joseph Koontz mailed on o; about Dec. 6, 1982 a letter "containing threats to take the life of Ronald R. Reagan, President of the United States." Koontz, 30, is presently serving a seven-year sentence for forgery in the Indiana State Reformatory at Pendleton. In the letter he wrote, "I'm William Koontz. I'm going to kill the President of the United States if you don't let me out next year." Koontz, of Upland, was arrested in August 1981. According to federal officials the earliest he coud be released would be July 12, 1985. The indictment alleges Koontz made oral threats against Reagan's life in the presence of Secret Service agent William F. Johnson and Larry Hollingsworth, an officer with the state Department ofCorrections on or about Dec. 16, 1982. "I don't care ifanyone believes me or not, when I get out ofhere, I'm going to kill President Reagan," Koontz told the two men. The second threatening letter was sent on or about Dec. 28, 1982, the indictment said. That letterstated in part "so you send federal man to see me that is not going to stop me from killing the United States President Reagan. I will do the S years for write this letter to him. 1 will be out soon so be looking for me. I'm going to kill President Reagan soon." -AP 
Snow flurries likely today ,high of 33 degrees. 
Cloudy overnight with a low of 1' degrees. -The Observer 
Friday, February 11, 1983-page 2 
Alcohol and abstention 
Older does not mean wiser or more responsible. Yet the January 3. 1983 issue of Time magazine has reported that during their 1983 legislative session, 26 

Kathleen Doyle 
states will consider raising the drinking age to 21. Those 

Assistant News Editor 
e:>'
statt:s which do not hoist up the drinking age have been 
warned by Congress that their federal highway funds 

Inside Friday t ''""' 
....;
may be threatened. 

So far. the effectiveness of minimum age laws, which make it illegal to sell alcohol to persons under 18 in some states or 21 in others, has not been proven con­including the physiological ones, such as the depressant clusively. A pamphlet called Facts About Alcohol and nature ofalcohol, behind drinking laws must be given. 
Alcobolism, distributed by the National Institute on Al­The university's tolerance of underage drinking al­
cohol Abuse and Alcoholism, states that "such controls lows students to take personal responsibility for their are found ineffective, and invite disrespect t(>r the law. drinking decisions. It is questionable whether the ad­Most young people start experimenting with alcohol ministration has provided a suitable option for those when considerably under the legal age -usually at students choosing to abstain from drinking alcohol. 
around 14 years." 

Campus parties, even those which are dorm-sponsored, 
In the Time article, however, there was mention ofa are usually steeped in an atmosphere which promotes 
study on drinking age which was done by Duke Univer­the use of alcohol. The proposed Undergraduate Club, 
sity and will be published 

which won first place in the next year. In that study of 
Operation Brainstorm con-the 48 continental states <:J test, would be an excellent from 1970 to 1977, it was ~ alternative for students who
(j 
"found that drunken-\..) prefer to refrain from drink-driving-related fatalities 
ing alcohol. This club would among 18 to 20 year olds in­
serve non-alcoholic drinks creased 7 percent when the 
and place emphasis on infor­legal drinking age was 
mal socializing, dance lowered from 21 to 18." Of 
music, atmosphere, and course, that statement does 
lighting. t;nfortunately not necessarily mean that 
there has not yet been there are fewer people un­
pos1t1ve action taken to der 21 who are drinking. 
implement this idea. The minimum drinking 
The PACE (Priorities and age of 21 set by the state of 
Commitment for Excel­lence) committee stated in
Indiana seems to mean little its report that "alcohol
or nothing to Notre Dame 
students. That fact was one abuse is a national problem that has been identified as a

that bothered me a great concern at Notre Dame."
deal when I first came to the university and saw that alcohol was a large part of The PACE report recommended that "the Provost, with ca:npus life. In a sense the university is promoting per­
the approval of the President, appoint a committee of sonal responsibility in students by tolerating underage administrators, faculty, rectors and students to draw up drinking though seeming to imply that "Notre Dame is 
a public statement on responsible drinking; to consider above and beyond the law." It is important that students whether present practices and policies on alcohol are learn to drink responsibly because, after all, we won't conducive to responsible drinking; and to recommend be undergraduates forever. new policies where appropriate." Laws are incapable of solely changing human hearts. Notre Dame may yet offer its opinion and define Those who drink alcohol must take upon themselves 
"responsible drinker" in an upcoming edition ofduLac. the responsibility which drinking entails. Age must play some part in the ability to face that responsibility, but 
Observer note________,
raising the drinking age or throwing 16-'year-olds in jail 
for their first offense ofdrunken driving clearly are not 
adequate answers. These attempts to deal with the issue 

The Observer is always looking for new repor­fail to address the probleu1atic attitudes that younger 
ters in both the sports and news departments, as people generally have toward alcohol. There seems to 
well as people in advertising and production. No be a mystique attached to alcohol and this must be 
experience is needed, so ifyou're interested call us obliterated through public education campaigns which 
at 239-5303. You too can be an Obsen•erite1 emphasize how to drink responsibly. The reasons, 


The Observer f 

The Notre Dame/Sa1nt f'v1arys Dance Theatre presents THE LITfLE MATCH GIRL Dtrected by Debra Stahl Februaryll and 12 at 8pm • February 13 at 2pm 0 Laughlin AucJ!tonurn  
Opentng ntght patrons w1ll rece1ve one complementary trcket for each reguldrly purchased trcket  
Information: 284-4o26  


u + ~ It's awful late to be baking a paper 
u + ~ 
Design Editor.... ..... Deirdre M. Murphy Design Assistant....... ..... Davt: Robins<-m Medic.. ... .. . . . ... . . . ... Maura Murphy 
+ ~ f 
T)'pesetters ... .. nobody wld me: & me * 
News Editor... Vic ·• Ruck the Newsroom" 
~ f
~­

+Sciulli 
Copv Editor................. Carol( I get to sleep tonitc:' )Camp 
~ f
1 

'"' *Features Layoul ................)oe ~usl·umcd Editorials Layout ...... .. ........ Tari Brown Sports CopJ•Editor~ike "Beat Tech" Ric­


~... 
* 
canJi 
NO Da)'l:."ditor...... . ....... Tim Pctrers 
1
il 
*
.I:WCDa)'Editor..... .... . .. Bruce Oakley 
SMC Lavout .\pecialist. Ryan "6 point" VerBc:rkmoes 
f 
Photographer ........... .......... Larry Petra!'! (iuest Appearcuzces .. .............. Oi vergence Theorem, .\1argrafi, Boh Beres, Chaos, 
+ The Figure Bone-Heads. l'lash .\1arshalck, Kathy "I Love Sports" Dovle, ~ike "!Like to Ahuse Doyle" Sullivan, aburning hush 
Someone left thepaper in the rain 
+ 
I don't know ifl cun take it, 
Caase it took so long to bake it, AmiI'll never have that recipe again. 
+ 
~ 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 •s 
~ 
published Monday through Fnday and 
on home lootball Saturdays except 
dunng exam and vacat1on penods The 

1 f 
Observer IS publ1shed by the students 
of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· 

1 u f
lege SubscnpTIOns may be purchased 
for $25 per year iS 15 per semester) by 

wntrng The Observer PO Box 0 illl H 
Notre Dame Indiana 46556 * 
The Observer IS a member of The 

Associated Press At I reproduction + 
nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pd•d dt Notre 

H H ... * 
1 
Dame lndrand 46556 

I 
---------------------------I 

The Observer Friday, February 11, 1983-page 3 


'Crackdown' 
Illegal phone call charging rises 
BySANDYVALENZUELA names ofthe students occupying the phone U!>.lgc art: stated on page 2 of StaffReporter room. the student telephone book: "State If a student admits making the call, law proz•ides that no person shall There has been an he is "not only getting the charge of defraud or attempt to defraud the_ ··unprecedented increase" of illegal the call itself, but also an extra S5," Telephone Company of its lawful 
telephone call charging, said 
stated Roemer. "Five dollars is a min­charges. Violators, upon convic­
Brother Kieran Ryan, assistant vice imal fee for all of the work put in," tion, are subject to imprisonment president of business affairs. "That's s_aid Ryan. for up to one year, a fine of up to why we're going to really crack 
If the phone call is not traced to a 11,000, or both." 
down again." student, "we absorb the cost our­According to Ryan, students "may 
The fraudulent calls were the sub­selves," said Ryan. According to be losing their billing numbers be­
ject of a special bulletin to the stu­Roemer, this is a "very expensive cause of the problems we've been 
dents issued by Dean of Students abuse." having. They (Indiana Bell) want to 
james A. Roemer. "Long distance calls can be eliminate the student number if stu­
Some students, according to traced," Roemer assured. The calls dents continue to abuse it." Roemer, have been charging the 
can be tracked to the phone number Roemer said the numbers are a 
calls to their room telephone num­called. "We can do this ourselves or "distinct advantage." With the ber rather than their billing number. send it back to the company," said present system, a student dials 9-1 Problems occurs when more than Ryan. and then the number he wishes to one person lives in the room. When Indiana Bell is notified of call. 
Each dormitory room on the the problem, they send out inves­When the operator takes the line, campus has a telephone. The tigators, Roemer said. "They charge the student then gives his billing telephone, however, is registered in for the full cost of investigative number. Roemer says this is a the name of the University, not in services." definite advantage. A student the name of the students occupying Some students, the dean con­receives the "direct distance dialing the room, said Roemer. Therefore, tinued, "charge the call to another rate as if he didn't go through the 
Notre Dame is legally obligated to student room. That's a criminal operator." Indiana Bell for payment of these violation. Not only could they be "Please do not use your phones bills. facing the costs, but they could be for long distance calls -outgoing or 
Another problem noticed is the facing criminal charges as well." incoming -unless you have a bil­
acceptance ofcollect calls. This is in The consequences of illegal ling number," Roemer urged. violation of the University policy as stated on page 65 ofdu Lac, accord­
\UkE [.-llJE '11'\1 U-Jr~t'\ 
ing to Roemer. 
C01tvHIJNIIC!illii0N 1
The University receives a toll slip 

for each unpaid bill, said Ryan. These 

~-----0 llriiC!illRIC
have the phone number and room number from which the call was 
lfi~III[)A\~ lfllll~\ ~IEI~IIIE~ 
made. Ryan then checks with the 
Feoruary 11 The Last Wave (19781

housing department to obtain the 
Peter We1r Australia, color 106 m1n A spE:IIbtnd1ng thnller about the supernatural 1n wh1Ch an Austra11an lawyer delendmg f1ve aborrg1nes aga1nst a murder charge becomes In· valved tn a ser1es of 1ncreas1ng1y tnexp11cable exp~r1ences wh1Ch seem to come. not_from modern mans ltnear nme but from tile abor1g1ne·s pr1meval dream t1me 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
• • .ND 

-........---lr~() ~ 11 ~171ti lr--$2-·o.,.o_, 
continuedfrom page 1 
"good balance" to him. "We see things differently," he said. "She's optimistic and logical while I'm off the cuff and cynical. This difference should help us work better togeth­er." 
Prevoznik agreed that she and Cal­laghan would work well together and added that she is impressed with Callaghan's abilities. "He's a realist and knows what he's doing," she commented. Prevoznik said that one 
of the main tasks that face her and 
Callaghan when they enter office is 
setting up the senate and cabinet. 
"We have to get them set up and 
start working with them as soon as 
we get into office. It's one ofthe big­
gest jobs that lies ahead of us." 
Prevoznik also agreed with Callag­han that their opponents in the election were good. "We were really lucky to win. They were tough com­petition. All of them are very talented and I can only hope that they'll continue to use their talent to improve Notre Dame's student government." 
SOUTH BEND AVENUE STORE I I
1 511£11 ~I
KEG SPECIALS 

7&7 Special 
udweiser V2 29.99 1499 ::1 1399
750ml 7 Crown 

Miller V2 29.99 
217UP

neric Y2 24.99 JI-IE llSSlEI I .





r~~¥=-~1~~1
$5.99 tIAl.l£11(1 I ILEIID 1 •
ichelob Y2 37.99 1 , I 1:111
Save$3 

Deposit: Keg $6 Tap $19 11
l7 9~ •. ·.. 1 B~~UTU -~' 
UMIT 1I'll 1'11501 liiiiT I l'fll'fHOI I I JIIOAY ONLY SATUIDAY ONLY
RUM &COKE Quart Specials ------r-----...I 
83 

Castillo Rum 7.50 I mti'i--u JI MATEUS-1J 1
Budweiser 8.99 21 Coke Old Milwaukee 7.29 I GEISTER ~~~ I ROSE ~I 
Miller 8.99 I 199 I 279 ~I
$5.49 j JSIIML III!!IW I 7SGML I LIMIT 1 PER PERSON 
Snacksfor 
every 
Still at .30e 
l:or !>lldckln' good ti~TK:!:'. \rOU'IIIow lDM'S d~bCious snacks. Fresh chips. nuts. Cdnd~. CT?IC~ sanch.w::M.

COFFEL TOM'S SALES, INC. Q 
pastn"" TOM-s has snacks for """'' tash? every OCCdSK>n

K.W. Coffel, Distributor 437 E. Colfax South Bend, IN 46617 
219 233·8811 

Peanuts•Candies•Sandwiches•Baked Goods• Chips•Other Fine Snacks 

.,..._._.._...____._......,...,..~.-.................~
..............._........................,..............., 
.........-.........,....,..~ ....... 
~  What are you d~ng for Spring Break?  come...  ~  
~ ~  ~ (\0\\• ~otG  .~ QtO\)t\\'J. \0"· ! ut\'ot\' ~'~-' \t'9 ·  ~ I  
~ ~  (.0  S\\)oet'\ ~ot\t'<;} & ~"e ~9ot\  ~ ., ~  
~  Trip includes:  steamboat springs, colorado  ~  
~  5 fun days and 6 wild nights Wine and Cheese Party  ~  
\  Luxury condominiums with fireplaces and jacuzzi is  ~  
~  Quality equipment rentals for a low orice  St. Patrick's Day Party  ~  
~ r  Join in the fun--stop by the S.U. and sign up!! Deadline for sign ups is Feb. 11  .J~  

'-·4/#"'e~ .......~~~.......~ .......,..~ .............,.
~ 
The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. 
tbctd 

'11" 

Under the watchful eye of]imi Hendrix, these three Air Force recruiters put on their bestfor those at the Goz•ernmen t Career Dav held in the LaFortune ballroomyesterday. (Photo by LarryPetras/ 

The Student Union is now accepting Applications for: 
CHAUTAUQVA MANAGER 
This job demands a responsible individual to get bands and movies and to be on hand at the events 
at the Student Union Ask Margaret for applications 

.-!!!!-...-------------------------~------~-----~------­

The Observer Friday, February 11, 1983 -page 4 
After 11 days 

Independent truckers end strike 

Watch the drawing live, Thursday, Feb. 17 at 8:00pm on Cable Channel 3. 
"WIN an \!lTV Night with REO Speedwagon" Contest entry form 
--------------..-------------­
CONTEST RULES 
I 

• 
Wtnners selected by random drawmg. 


• 
Prire wmner!l nacified b~ phone. I Name ----------------------­


•Employees of WASEC, ICC and their advertlstng agency, participating stores. and dependents not 
eligible I Address ---------------------­
• '\o purcha~ nece!lsar~ 

• Wmner!> must h\.e in S1. Jo!>eph Co. Elkhart Co.. 
~ar!>hall Co.. lnd1ana. I City State ___ Zip -----­
• Odd!> or wmmng Jepend on number ul entne~. 
• '\o sU~!ItltutJOn of pnte!!.. 
I 

Age _____ Phone :"Jumber ----------­
• 
Pnte \1. mner' must be I 5 year~ of age M oiJer 

• 
Em rant!> under IM year!. of age must have \l.fllten parentdl 


I 
jlefffii!I~IOO. 

• .·\rrangemem:. for Grand Pn1c v.tll be made b\ lnd1ana 
IndianaCablevision 
Cable\ IMnn. 
I 

South Bend Mi>hawaka 259-570 I 
• Emne!> mU!>l be rece1\ed b\ notm lhur!>da\.1-ebruan 1..,.
,.. 

. . . 
Elkhart Go>hen H75-6566 
• On!~ tJnt' emr~ per m.uhng. 
Plymouth 9Jt>-J602 
MUSIC TELEVISION
I
• ~o m~chamcal reproductton ul entnell. 

All entries mu•t be receind h~ noon Thuro.dav, Februan 17, 191!3. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Leaders Sullivan, who claimed to more equitable for independent ofindependent truckers called a halt represent more than 35,000 truck­truck drivers. yesterday to their violence-marred ers, including most of th<: steel Parkhurst said it was "a commit­protest strike after they won as­haulers, said later that his committee ment on the part of a substantial surances from nearly three dozen would decide this weekend whether number of congressmen to look at congressmen that their complaints ro continue the strike. the taxes" and was the best he could would be examined. Other truckers, angry over have accomplished. 
"You have to be realistic," Mic­Parkhurst's announcement, said Rep. Peter Kostmayer, D-Pa., who hael Parkhurst, president of the In­they did not regard the protest as also circulated the letter, called it "a dependent Truckers Associatio t n, over. commitment of a willingness to lis­said at a news conference inter­During the strike, Parkhurst had ten" ro the truckers, and Applegate rupted by shouts and heckling from said repeatedly that protesting said he expected congressional other truckers who said the 11-day truckers would return to work only hearings would be held. Parkhurst strike should continue. if Congress repealed the tax and fee did not identify the 35 congressmen 
Acting at Parkhurst's urging, increases. But he said yesterday that he said had agreed to hear the truck­thousands of independent truckers the commitment from the congress­ers' complaints. parked their rigs Jan. 31 in protest men was the best that could be ac­The letter urged Speaker Thomas against increases in truck taxes and hieved. P. O'Neill and Rep. Dan Ros­road-user fees voted by Congress Parkhurst said that a letter being tenkowski, D-111., chairman of the shortly before Christmas. But in circulated in Congress by Rep. House Ways and Means Committee, recent days the strike appeared to be Douglas Applegate, D-Ohio, seeks a to review truckers' complaints crumbling as growing numbers of legislative review of the tax and fee about the sharp, recent increases in truckers returned to the highways. boosts with the aim of making them highway user fees on trucks. One trucker was killed on the first day of the strike. 
"We are officially asking inde­
pendent truckers ...to get back to 

Church of Englandwork as soon as possible," Parkhurst said after a three-hour meeting of 
about 40 regional representatives of 


rejects unilateral call 
his organization, which claims 

30,000 members. LONDON (AP) -After an emo­weapons. It also called on the British 
Rising from the audience, George tional debate broadcast nationwide, government to work with its allies to Sullivan, head of a rival organization the governing body ofthe Church of "reduce progressively" the depen· called Independent Truckers Unity England yesterday rejected a call for dence on nuclear weapons in the Committee, shouted that many unilateral British nuclear disarma­Western alliance and to cut back 
truckers disagree with Parkhurst. ment. world nuclear arsenals. 
"He's got a piece of paper that's The General Synod of 554 bis­
Archbishop of Canterbury Robert 
not worth the paper it's written on," hops, other clerf_>y and laity defeated 
Runcie, leader of 65 million 
Sullivan yelled. by more than :Ho-I a proposal that 
Anglicans worldwide, told the synod
Britain phase out its nuclear 
that unilateral disarmament would
weapons and tell the United States to 
throw NATO into disarray, sabotage
take it~ submarine and bomber bases 
Geneva arms talks between the
off British soil. 

But it approved by a 53-vote mar­United States and the Soviet Union 
gin an amendment calling for a uni­and strengthen American 
versal ban on t1rst use of nuclear "advocates of isolationism." 
Van Lines Customers Service as Usual this Weekend Except Friday Only 
The 8:00pm run will go to the South Shore Station 
Runs to Malls Fridays 6, 7, 9, 10, & 11 Saturday 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, & 11 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 

SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 1/ -20, 1983 
.ATrMtrmrnt:~by 

ECHO TRA YEL, INC. MCU2571F SIX PER ROOM TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
Round tnp motor coach tram;ponauon v.:t modern highway coaches to Daytona Beach, Aorida ie&Vlll8 Friday, March 11. 

• 
Seven mghts acc:ornmodat1ons at the exciting Plaza Hotel of



$185 
Daytona Beach. located at600 North Atlantic Ave., it il the most demanded h~>tel on tht strip at that time 
• A truly great u:hedu!e of actJV1t1es inc/udina our famous pool deck pan1cs and belly flop contest. ' 

FOVR PER ROOM • Opuonal excurs•ons available to Disney World, Epcol, and seven&] other auractJOns 
• 
Numerous bar and restaurant discounts. 

• 
The services of full lime !ravel representauves. 



$199 
• 
Alltaxe~ and graiU!IIes. 

• 
Guaranteed lotchenette o, oceanfront available a1 small .addJtJonal charge (4 per room only) 



A QUALITY TRIP-A LOWPRICE-A GREATTIME 
The Plara Hotel. locate.o nght m tht middle of I he ,trip. is def1mtely the place to be during ~pnng break A~k dnyone "'"ho ha~ been to Daytona The hotel hu a pool•. b1g pany deck, re,tauranl. four ban. color TV, a1r conditioned rooms and plenty of acuvit1es. P1ctures are a\al\able where you '1gn up Our motorcoache~are nothm,!l: butthe highest qualny highway :oache~ We abo g1ve you more extras wnh our tr1p than anyone elae Don't blow 1tand iO on a l11wcr ~.jualny 1np LAST }'EAR OJIER 8,000 PEOPLE ENJOYED THIS TRIP. 
SIGN t:P NOW AT THE · TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.· FRI. 10 AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 

I 
i < 
I 




~~0~~0~~~";··?
~~ 
'b-~ ~ 
J.:J: Indiana Cablevision welcomes MTV, ~' the only 24-hour video music network in 4r-~,-;jl' stereo, to Michiana with a Rock'n'Roll dream 
.~~ come true! 
GRAND PRIZE 

• 
Private limousine transportation for you and three friends to the February 19 REO concert at the Notre Dame ACC! 

• 
Preconcert dinner with an MTV "video jock"! 

• 
Meet REO backstage after the concert! 

• 
REO's complete 12-album set! 

• 
MTV satin tour jackets! 



10 RUNNERS-UP 
• 
Two tickets to the REO concert. 

• 
REO's latest album, "Good Trouble." 

• 
An MTV T-shirt. 



HERE'S HOW TO ENTER: 
Fill in the coupon below, or pick up an official entry blank at selected record stores or at any Indiana Cablevision office. Drop it in the MTV box, or mail to: 
WIN an MTY Night with REO Speedwagon 
cj o Indiana Cablevision Corporation 
P.O. Box 6248 
South Bend, IN 46660 
Indiana Cablevision brings you MTV, the only 24-hour Rock'n'Roll video music network in full stereo, a cable television exclusive. For a new cable installation and stereo hookup, call Indiana Cablevision today and take advantage of our President's 1¢ sale. Call for details. 
---~---­
The Observer Friday, February 11, 1983-page 5 
Freshman Year 

Program to provide college info 

By PAM RICHARDSON 
StaffReporter 
The administration realizes that many freshmen have not yet decided upon the college program they wish to pursue, and in response to this, the Freshman Year ofStudies is sponsoring a "Spotlight Program." 
The event i!> designed to give fresh­men all the information they need in order to choose a college program. 
Freshmen will be required to register for the fall semester of the 1983-84 year with the dean of the college program that they have chosen April 14-21 
Emil T. Hofman, dean of the 


Ainos reflects on life, death, spirit of King 
By MIKE LEPRE 
Senior StaffReporter 
Calling Martin Luther King "the most eloquent speaker that this world has ever seen," actor and director john Amos presented a dramatic reading of a Martin Luther King speech as part of the Cniver­
sity's l Sth annual Black Cultural Arts Festival last night. 
After relating soine humorous anecdotes concerning his ex­periences on and off the screen, Amos revealed the more serious side of himself. 
With the piano and vocal accom­paniemnt of Galen Robinson, Amos performed "Ashanti" and "Black Heros," two songs written by Robin­son. 
"Martin Luther King's death left a 
void in this country which l do not 
think will be tilled during our 
lifetime," Amos said. Amos also 
noticed "a strong parallel between 
the life and death ofGandhi and Mar­
tin Luther King." 
Amos strongly believes that the spirit of King must still be present today. 
"King's life was timeless because he had had nothing to offer us but love," said Amos, adding that "Kings' words were not words of the past but also words oftoday." 
Amos then delivered a dramatic, 

teary-eyed reading of King's self­
written eulogy, with Robinson 
playing his own rendition of 
Amazing Grace on the flute in the 
background. 
"\\'e must come closer to a better 

understanding of life," asserted 
Amos. "We must realize that no one 
has the right to supress anybody un­
der the eyes of God." 
Amos, who was nominated for an Emmy for his role as Kuma Kinti: in the televison mini-series "Roots," stated. "when you arc an actor the best thing you can do is rely on your own instincts." 
"Bel(>re hecoming an actor. I wanted to be a professional football player," said Amos. He also noted 
• • • SMC 

continuedfrom page 1 
abstained. and one percent otfered write-ins. 
Election commissioner \lonica Gugle attributed the highest voter turnout in recent history to the fact that voting was held for I I hours in residence halb. Gugle termed the numbc:r of voters "rc:warding after all the work." The:_ voting breakdown in c:ach dorm \'>as not available. 
llocter plans to bc:gin hc:r term by continuing the restructuring of stu­dc:nt govcrnmc:nt that was started by her prc:decessor, Kathleen Murphy. The moM important goal according to llocter. is to "get the new structure for next year ~et up and functioning. We'll be taking applica­tions at the end of the month." 
"Everyone is breathing a sigh of relieCsaid Hocter."but we're ex­cited and ready to start." 
that after being cut l 3 times by various professional teams he "decided to get into something which came more natural to me, the entertainment industry." 
Amos cited the use of "personal. 
everyday life experiences as a 
civilian to help my career as an ac­
tor." 
In addition to appearing in "Roots,'' Amos has had roles in "Police Story. "The Tim Conway Comedy Hour," "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," "The Love Boat," and "Good Times."' Amos' credentials also include film appearances in The Vanishing Point, The World's 
Greatest Athlete, Let's Do It Again, and Toucbed by Luue, as well as 
numerous stage performances. 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival will continue for the next month, and is slated to incude a talent show, speeches by Betty Carter and War­ren Bowles, and a fashion show. 

Freshman Year ofStudies, explained that every freshman should consider not only what they would like to do in the future, but also what they could do with reasonable success. 
All freshmen must take seven re­quired courses in their curriculum. This allows students to sample a number ofdifferent areas in addition to the one which interests them most. 
Hofman commented that ap­proximately 60 percent of the stu­dents change colleges from the time they apply until they declare their major. 
The "Spotlight Program" will begin with informative talks by the t deans of the Colleges of Engineeer­ing, Business Administration, Arts and Letters, and Science. 
Literature from all the colleges will be available in the Freshman Learning Resource Center during February. All colleges, beginning the week of Feb. 28. will be hosting open houses, class visitations, and personal con~ultations, designed to widen student perspectives. 
Testing also will be offered to any 

interested student on an individual 
basis. 
After a student has declared his college, he is then eligible to ad­vance rc:gister. Pre-Advance Registration meetings will be held on April 12. 
Hofman encourages all freshmen to take advantage of this program in order to help them make an intel­ligc:nt choice about the college in which they plan w enroll this tall. 


:tdwaifonfwith special guest 
RED RIDER 
Saturday, Feb. 19 8 PM Notre Dame A.C.C. All seats reserved: $11.50 & $10.50 
Tickets now available at A.C.C. Box office only. Tickets on sale Tuesday at A.C. C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Orchard mall, Pierre Moran Mall, & the Catalogue Store). Robertson's (South Bend & Concord Mall), St. Joe Bank (main branch), The Elkhart Truth J.R.'s (La Port), and World Records (Goshen). 
-.....---~-----~---------~---­
.~;,#! 
:-~­



'l 

--:~w,~'"""~~ 
(. b-1TTn 
DIIIIA!I 
Second Floor 


.....-==-­
0 5 "10 20 
~ 
Mezzanine 


IM>oleo. Molzan and Partners 
•1 --vt-WSt. lnct>l&. lnd 
By KATHY MURRAY 
Copy Editor 

Notre Dame has its Old Fieldhouse and 
Saint Mary's has its former Alumnae Library. 
The Fieldhouse will be leveled in March, but 
Saint Mary's Alumnae Library will, with quite a 
bit of renovation, flourish in the form of the 
new Haggar College Center, scheduled to 
open in September. 

Research for the project began nearly two years ago when Mary Anne O'Donnell, direc­tor of student activities, and several student government leaders began reading about and visiting other college centers. They compiled a report on their research which was presented to Kathleen M. Rice, dean of stu­
dent affairs. 

Meanwhile, the College's faculty and ad­ministration were surveyed, along with 500 Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students, for in­put concerning the center. 
Thirty college centers across the country contributed information about their programs, facilities and services. About this time, the Cushwa-Leighton Library was under construction at Saint Mary's, freeing the old library building for use. 
A College Center Committee, composed of representatives from the faculty, staff, ad­ministration and student body, was formed to develop a program for the College Center project. They used the ideas compiled in the surveys to formulate goals for the program. 
"Before doing anything else, we were care­
ful to construct a program for the building be­
cause we didn't want to just stick facilities into 
it without some overall purpose," O'Donnell 
said. 

With this in mind, the committee issued six goals. They are, listed in order ofimportance: 
•To 
center students' social life on campus in order to develop and reinforce their iden­tity as Saint Mary's College women, to allow students more control oftheir social lives and to alleviate the problems associated with the current lack ofsocial space. 

•To 
increase awareness of and participa­tion in student organizations such as student government. 

•To 
encourage informal association among students, faculty, administration (including Regents) and alumnae. 

•To 
encourage student participation in cul­tural activities. A survey of 40 campuses revealed that two-thirds of all students sur­veyed (ofa total of37,000)support the idea of cultural facilities located in a college center. A separate study demonstrated that far more students participate in cultural activities when presented in the center rather than else­where on campus or in the college town. 

•To 
encourage students to take advantage of non-traditional educational opportunities for growth and development such as counsel­ing and career development workshops. 

•To 
integrate the off-campus student population. 


"From the goals, you can see we really 
wanted the building to be for all members of 
the Saint Mary's community. That's why it's 
called the College Center," O'Donnell ex­
plained. 

When the committee set out to determine 
which facilities suggested in the various sur­
veys would best meet the goals of the 
program, it had to set priorities. Originally, for 
example, the college bookstore was to oc­
cupy the entire first tloor of the Haggar Cen­
ter. 

"When we looked at that (the architectural 
-~---­

plan)," O'Donnell said, "we realized that more than half of the building was going to be the bookstore, and we really couldn't get any­thing else in. So, we went back to the drawing board and decided to build an addition on the back of the building to house the bookstore, providing space for some of the facilities we were leaving out." 
"I think that, without the program, we wouldn't have been able to justify the need for the addition," O'Donnell noted. 
The first of the building's three floors will house an information desk, the central point of the building, according to O'Donnell, which will provide information about campus activities. The desk will be staffed whenever the building is open. Office space for the director ofstudent activities and an assistant, a bank and a travel bureau will also be located on the first floor. 
The bookstore will be in the addition cur­rently being constructed in the rear of the building. Small food items will be sold either in the bookstore or in the snack bar. In any event, the bookstore will be large enough to 
'You can see we really wanted the building to be for all members of Saint Mary's community.' 
accomodate much more than the textbooks it now holds. 
Other assorted first floor features are a 24­hour bank teller, a ticket distribution center and a game room (including a ping-pong table and video games). , 
The College Center will be connected with LeMans Hall and the Cushwa-Leighton Library by two tunnels. 
The snack bar will be the second floor's most prominent feature; its goal is intimacy. 
"I think one of the big problems with the current snack bar is that no one wants to sit at a table for eight; they want to sit with one or two people -so we're putting in booths and small tables," O'Donnell said. 
There will be a terrace above the snack bar, but the third floor will not be completed as planned because ofa lack offunding. 
"We'll paint it (the top floor), put some carpeting and furnishings in, but not do anv of the (originally scheduled) demolition," O'Donnell commented. 
Six small third floor rooms will be set aside for student offices, such as for The Observer and The Blue Mantle. A large conference room and lounge for small lectures and semi­nars also will be on the third floor. 
Most rooms of the center are multi­purpose; one room on the mezzanine level will be named the "Chameleon Room" in honor ofits constantly changing purposes. 
The Center will be open Monday-Thursday, 8 a.m.-midnight; Friday, 8 a.m.-2 a.m.; Satur­day, 10 a.m.-2 a.m. and Sunday, 10 a.m.­midnight. 
O'Donnell was the host of a meeting soliciting student input on the center earlier this year. She currently is making presenta­tions about the Center in dorm sections ­complete with blueprints. The renovations, according to O'Donnell and the College Cen­ter Committee, will be "tempered with respect of the originality of the old library structure." 
5500,000 for the renovation was donated by the Haggar Foundation. The contribution for the 5250,000 bookstore was given by the EliJ.Shaheen family. 


Friday, February 11, 1983 -page 7







Editorials 
Go watch the game 
Today is the day we tind out ifNotre Dame's relatively new Division I women's basketball team is Almost Ready for Big Time. As you are probably aware, Coach Mary DiStanislao's squad plays the number-one club in the country, Louisiana Tech. 
Tim Neely 
My Turn 

The Lady Techstcrs are an example of a dying breed in sports -the dynasty. They have won two consecutive national cham­pionship1>, and only a couple of teams stand in the way of a third. They have lost hut two games in the last three years. They have not merely defeated good clubs; they have blown them out. They are like the l'Cl.A men's teams 
It's over. 
Not a tense basketball game, final exams, or some less taxing moment, but the incessant bombardment of the campus-wide elections. Candidates and proponents of various ideals have packed their posters and propaganda away like Christmas decorations to be resur­rected at the appropriate time. 

Keith Picher 
Short of Profundity 

Some people may have enjoyed the elec­tions. Tbe Obseroer received a few more dollars in advertising revenues, poster-makers made a hefty protlt, and the College Republicans were able to publicize the fact that they exist. 
The election didn't amuse other students. 
More than a few wished they lived in the of the John Wooden era; the Boston Celtics of the Bill Russell era; the Notre Dame tootball teams of the immediate post-World War II years. It is easily the best basketball team to step onto the floor of the ACC this season. 
And :'llotre Dame's women's team' In a period of less than three years they have risen to a level where they could make the Division I NCAA tournament this year. They detlnitely have a bright future, as they are loaded with underclassmen and are having another good recruiting year. But they are one of the best­kept secrets on the Notre Dame campus. Maybe about 100 loyal fans. and varying num­bers of non-regulars, show up at their games. 
As one of those faithful supporters, I feel that they deserve to be viewed by more stu­dents. Tomorrow night is as good a time as any -maybe better than most. 
Few teams ofTech's caliber, male or female. have played at the ACC during the 1980s. This is a rare chance to see the best squad in the country; that alone should prove an attrac­tion. 
Also, what else is going on? The men's team is on the road; the hockey team plays again tomorrow. The usual movie and entertain­ment ofterings from Student l'nion (for what they're worth) will be here. And most happy hours are over and most parties and/or bar trips haven't begun as of the game's starting time-"':.30 p.m. Better yet, you can't beat the admission price -free with an l.D. 
But . .. ·but . .. thev're girls! I knew you'd say that. Back on August 28, in Tbe Observer's tlrst paper of the academic year, sports editor Chris Needles pontitlcated on the highlights of the upcoming year in sports. He mcmioned among these events tomorrow's game and concluded his discussion with this comment pointed toward the student body in general: "Ifthe usual paltry crowd of I 00 shows up ... Mary D. will know that she still has ... a few 


Reflections on elections 
Soviet Union, a land free from democracy's pernicious side eftects. 
The attack was four-pronged. Two referenda, including the freeze and FLOC votes, were the worst offenders. Not to be outdone, the candidates for student body president and the student senate promulgated their share offoolishness. 
Of the four issues, none was more inconse­quential than the vote on the unilateral freeze (thank you, College Republicans, tor enlightening us morons on the dift'erence be­tween unilateral and bilateral freezes; we're forever indebted.) What difierence would it make if we had passed or rejected the proposal unanimously? Furthermore, to think that the United States would ez•er support a unilateral freeze (especially under this Ad­ministration) makes debating the issue like ar­guing over whether or not one plus oneought to equal two. 
Strangely enough, some of the best argu­ments for and against the freeze were never enunciated. If we were debating the prac­
ticality ofa uniiateral freeze, the drivel would have been understandable. To honestly believe that nuclear weapons prevent the l'S­SR from annexing Afghanistans is to believe that capital punishment deters crime. Similar­ly, to believe that the American people actual­ly have a say in what their government docs is to deny the existence of Ronald Reagan. 
The FLOC issue was slightly better or­ganized, though it too was decided more on the basis of emotion and gut feelings than on the facts and their implications. FLOC argued that Campbell ignored their responsibility, to which Campbell answered that they had no responsibility. Wasn't this the real point ofthe vote -to decide whether or not capitalism engenders this it's-none-of-our-business men­tality? 
The vote for "boy wouldn't student body president look good on my transcript" was even more absurd. It produced some of the most insane platforms in years. One ticket promised to work to set video cassette recor­ders in the dorms, to work lor better library sexist minds to change." 
The Notre Dame women's team is at times 
exciting and other times frustrating to watch 
-as are the men. At their best the women 
display a tenacious defense and as patient an 
offense as a 30-second shot clock (a feature of 
women's games all over the country long 
betorc men's conferences started toying with 
similar devices) will allow. At their best they 
can probably make this game less than a total 
blowour. 
I am not going to tell you, however, that our women will win -only a few scattered op­timists actually think we have a chance. What is important is that they have an appreciative, loud crowd filling the lower arena of the ACC 
(at least) to make the Lady Techstcrs' task as diftkult as possible. 
Notre Dame is trying extremely hard to make the women's basketball team into a national-championship-caliber team. They'll never make it withoutyour support. 
hours, and to work on improving the hours of computer availability. A live minute investiga­tion would probably have revealed that halfof their proposals were unworkable. Not that this administration has been a particularly productive one. (In tact, were it not for Yonchak's bungling of the Pittsburgh ticket distribution and Burke's handling of the "Save the Buses" campaign, we might never have known they existed. ) Another platform advo­cated the possibili~v of a campus-wide 
boycott of the bookstore. Be serious. 
Lastly, the :;tudent senate races. Somehow they were overshadowed by the superior idiocy of the other issues. Nobody knows any of the candidates. ln tact. the campaign was reduced to a contest of who could come up with the most ridiculous posters, coin the most inane slogans, and tind the moM unlikely places to display their llyers (the front door of the stalls is an ingenious place to put them, hut have ~orne respect tor the people who have to wash the floors). 

Fire and Ice: the nuclear paradox 
The nuckar world bone ofparadox, where irrational threats arc referred to as rational military strategy and the ultimate achieve­ment of technology is destruction. The most intriguing paradox is the image of a world careening toward a death of both fire and ice, a doomsday attributable to the ice of human ignorance and indifference as much as to the flame ofhuman egotism. 
Mike O'Brien 
Guest Columnist 

Alot has been said about tire, about destroy­ing the planet 30 times, about warheads, about missile capabilities. The word about ice has just recently begun to he contemplated. The realization grows that maybe the human has created a-· Frankenstein which cannot be handled in traditional ways. It is a monster ot misunderstanding, apathy, and ignorance which has carried u1> to the brink of nothing­
:.e~s. 
Robert Frost displayed an acute under­standing of the frosty dement of the nuclear threat when he wrote in his apocalyptic poem. Fire and Ice. "1 think I know enough ol hate, to say that for destruction ice, is also great. and would suftke." 
The ice which beckons the human race to a nuclear holocaust consists of ignorance and apathy. Notre Dame theologian John Dunne calls the ice that Dante found in the very depths of Hell as the lack offeeling and under­standing. This would aptly describe the nuclear gunslinger of today, who coldly dehumanizes the one for whom the fusion bullet is meant, changing normal, largely well­intentioned people into exploitive im­perialists and godless reds. At the grassroots, we have an enduring knack for failing to learn how to live with each other. 
This failure has been common to the world since the Stone Age, and really is a Stone Age mentality. While always dangerous, the problem increases much more than exponen­tially; a Stone Age human armed with a nuclear club is devastatingly deadly, to lite it­
self as well as individual lives. The danger grows still further when the ice of apathv sets in, and we convince ourselves that we cannot match our technological revolution with an evolution ofthe human spirit. Frozen in place, we mark time. quietly hoping against but nonetheless expecting tire from the sky. 
Quite simply, we do not have to obliterate life just because we live ignorantly and ag­gressively. It is high time that the common person spoke out against a high noon outlook, and interjected some common sense, some sense oflife, into nuclear politics. The nuclear challenge is how to respond to a force more powerful than we have ever known. 
The citizens of the world are beginning to answer the call. People from small town Ver­monters to millions of Europeans have decided they must have a say in their own future. Students, workers, military leaders, scientists, bishops, indeed a whole cross­section of human life, has begun to com­template how to say no to a nuclear death. 
There is a tremendous, charismatic power in this emerging spirit, and whether it originates in a love of God's creation or a 
sense ot human ~olidaritY. people an: being 
moved to seek understanding and control l)f nuclear weapon~. The b~ue transcend~ ra..·e. national boundary, and creed, being at once the ultimate and most common a1>pcct of so­cial justice, as nuclear war is the end of society. the end ot justice. 
To again quote Robert Frost, we as gras­sroots have "miles to go before we sleep." We must further strin~ to contain the nuclear monster in a way that is patient yet urgent, inspired yet deliberate -as well as multi­lateral, serious and determined. Of course, tangible progress must he accomplished hy world leaders, but they will not act effectively until we tell them to, and we have yet to speak loudly enough. 
As optimists, we believe that the melted ice of indifference will provide the refreshing water that will extinquish the nuclear furnace. Perhaps this is the happiest paradox of all ... that the warmth, will, and action of each human contains the power to rescue all humanity. 
In a sense, you are your only hope. 
IheO~r========== Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, .'Votre Dame, I.'V 46556 
Editor-in-Cbief. ............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor .............. David Dziedzic Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of cit'ler institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMC Executive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager ..................Maura Mmphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ....... ..................Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..................... joseph.Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Pboto Editor ........................ ..........Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 

Pray to God, but ... 
A 
sign saying "Pray to God, But Row Towards Shore" is missing from the door of my room in 116 Pasquerilla West. It disap­peared between midnight and daylight last Saturday, probably borrowed by a guest attending a section soiree in the PW party room. The same sign was once liberated from the doo.r of my room when I lived in Keenan. It was returned on the final Suday of the semester while I was saying Mass. 1 say Mass six or seven times a week in P\X ; the schedule is posted, if the present borrower would like to plan restitution or an opportunity to worship. 
"Pray To God," the sign says, "But Row Towards Shore," and there's a design of two fellows with oars, maneuvering a boat. The plaque offers an insight on self-reliance ofwhich Emerson would be proud; but who else would like such New England drollery? Ob-
Rev. Robert Griffin 

letters to a lonely god 
viously, a guy, or several guys took it, because women aren't disposed to ripping off. A woman will steal your heart, or your class ring, or the plastic utensils from the meal on the plane, or the cham­pagne glass the prince left a kiss in at the debutantes' ball. Women are more personal or practical in choosing objects for rhievery. The ethics that takes signs, like Pop Farley's banner, is macho and male. 
I was disappointed to find my plaque missing. Ripoffs are one of the games ofour times; trophies from an adventure where the risks are small are the loot. It's part ofthe fun ofbeing young and irrespon­sible to have a liberal attitude toward other peoples' property. In darker circumstances, looters pour over the wreckage left by flood or earthquake. The shops get plundered when the lights go out in Harlem. Union soldiers carry offthe prizes ofwar from Atlanta to the ~ea. The haves and the have-nots are equally affected; the shopping bag ladies are as vulnerable as the Rockefellers. Citizens are 
outraged, becase the social contract has been violated. No longer trusting one another, we lock up our property, or chain it down. Television monitors are the big brothers that watch us while we shop. 
Iknew a student famous for his collection ofrecords, most ofthem belonging to the bookstore. Res c/amat ad dominum, a thing cries out for its owner. The Roman law principle is as valid on campus as it is in the war zones. 
Mine was just a pained wooden plaque, for God's sake; it was not one ofthe pillars supporting the civilized world. Icould pretend that the taker picked it up by mistake, thinking it was his, as the notices say when jackets are removed from the dining halls; darker suspicions are suggested when the loser adds: no ques1tions asked. I could make an emotional appeal, lamenting because some local scamp has pilfered artwork that was part of the legacy from my grandmother's will, gifting me with an heirloom passed down for generations by Yankee fishermen. As jimmy Carter said: "I have never lied to you." The plaque came from a shop on the coast of 
'Maine. It was a gift which reminds me of home. 
I hope my plaque has a good home. It is not a decoration to be hung in a bathroom or over a bar. It doesn't belong in a church, either; not being in a class with "I am the Resurrection and the Life." The plaque should be placed in a spot worthy of home grown philosophy, like a hall chaplain's door. If it whimpers at night, you'll know that the res is clamat for itsdominum. 
If the taker needs it more than the owner, the taker is certainly welcome to keep it. Lord love the lad, I own nothing except my dog, Darby O'Gill II, that anyone couldn't have for the asking, if he needs it, and even Darby is available for brief visits. I can imagine some senior, granduating with a major that seems as useless as a dead al~ batross when he's looking for a job, trying to find the balance be­tween faith and works. I can imagine a sophomore, faced with a crisis ofbelief, trying to evaluate the usefulness of prayer. I can imagine a philosophy student, overwhelmed with Weltschmertz, because the sea is so wide and his boat is so small, resolving his existential dilem­ma by recourse to his oars and his trust in the Lord. I can imagine E.T. as a canoeist, up the creek without a paddle, deciding he'll never make it home unless he Rows Like Hell Towards Shore, here on the good spaceship earth. This is advice that joggers could use, or dieters, or Reaganomicists, or political candidates. It is the wisdom that supports aerobics, or any club sport. like hockey. It is the theol­ogy which will keep the Church afloat, or inspire Kilroy viewing the ruins ofa nuclear holocaust. Onward and upward with the old-time religion, but get offfrom your arse, and ROW TOWARIDS THE 
SHORE! Faith without works is dead. There is an empty space on a lonely door at 116 PW. The hook is waiting, the Scotch tape is in place that gave temporary permanence to my homely little adage. Some eveningor morning, ifl find that my sign has reached shore, I will be happy to have shared it for a while with a collector. I will be delighted to think that in a world ofgive and the voice was heard ofa · out for its owner. 

Reginald Daniel 
features 
I
t's 6:30 a.m. and out across the the left, the other, the door to the frozen tundra a lone figure strides. right and both turn on the lights in As he nears his destination a second each room. solitary tlgure joins him and they ex­The one in the left room proceeds change greetings. Upon reaching around and through an open door­O'Shaughnessy Hall one of them way around the console table, bends pulls on the door to the far right and over arid throws a single switch. The both enter. They then proceed one in the right comes up to a much around the corner and up four more complex-looking console darkened flights ofstairs until they • table, throws a seriesofswitches and come to a lone door. The combina­pushes a series ofbuttons. A hum tion is locked and one enters the se­pervades both rooms as both go quence. They turn the lock, pull about gathering records and news open the door, turn on the lights and events. proceed up one more flight ofstairs. It is now five minutes to seven and At the top they both turn to the left the one in the left room puts an eight and converge through a tunnel-like track cartridge into a front loading doorway. They come to three doors, cart machine and cues up a record. one on each side and one in the The one in the right room cues up a front. Silently one takes the door to record too, and pulls out a sheet of 


press release 
n 

I
naugurating its 1982-83 season, the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's Dance Theatre presents the dance classic, The Little Match Girl tonight at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The show will run February 1 1 and 12 at 8 p.m. and February 13 at 2 p.m. on the Saint Mary's campus. Tickets for all performances can be purchased at the door. 
Based on a tale by Hans Christian Andersen, the ballet is set in Den­mark in the 1890's. The Little Match Girl is the eharming story ofa poor little match girl who experiences beautiful visions each time she strikes one of her matches to keep warm on the cold New Year's Eve on which she is selling them. 
The cast features Mary Scheiber as the little match girl. The paper and throws a final switch. t 
They then both check and recheci 
levels and then themselves for ani 
possible flaws in equipment or 
1 
reading performance. : 
It is now~ a.m. and the one in~ left room presses a button that st the cart machme while the one i the right room begins to read the'
1 
sheet ofpaper. Both then start the records spinning. WSND AM and I WSND FM are on the air. · 
Eve~ class day ofthe semester 4 most of the past 35 years a highly/ talented group of individuals hav~ gotten together and produced1
has become known as the "Soun Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." U an incredible system ofequipm varying from patch cords to tap record players to speakers and ' microphones, for more than 19 I hours a day, WSND broadcasts J the assigned frequency of6-!0 Al 
the college campuses ofNotre q 
and Saint Mary's College and th4 
Cosgrove, Charles Dobsn, Colleen Dwyer, Francine Eckrich, Carmela Esposito, Denise Gagnon, Carolyn Karpinski, Molly Wals!-., and Caroline Wittenberg. Debra Stahl, the choreographer and adapter of this production, earned her Master ofScience in ballet at Indiana Uni­versity. As a former member ofthe 
Mid-Hudson Regional Ballet Com­pany, Stahl toured the East Coast and Canada. 
Presently, Stahl teaches bal­let and special topics in dance in Notre Dame-Saint Mary's cooperative Department ofCom­munication and Theatre. Since arriv­ing at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Stahl has choregraphedAn Evening of Dance, and An Evening ofDancell. In addition, Stahl directed Coppelia, 

0 
::» 
n 
CD 

-~~ ~· 

,.................................................................................. 
The Observer Features Section 

f:vl to the Souh Bcnd-Michiana area. They carry a staffof about 160 people among 8 departments: A:vl. Dt. Production, Engineering. Sports. News. Sales, and Publicity. 
WSND AM64 broadcasts almost entirely through the electrical svs­tcm of Notre Dame and St. Marv:s. using a complex network of sm.all transmitters, tuners and amplifiers called a carrier current system. WSND AM's programming is aimed at students' taste and therefore has worked on building up one ofthe best music collections of rock, popular and jazz in the area. 
WSND FM broadcasts in an ef. fective 4S mile radius around the Northwestern Indiana area. Its programming is educational and fine arts from 7 a.m. to 12 a.m. and con· eludes with the Nocturne Nightflight Show from 12 a.m. to 2:20a.m. WSND FM rivals some of the best Midwestern FM stations since it has one of the largest record libraries in Northern Indiana. 
contrary to popular belie( WSND I'M does broadcast in 2 channel stereo, and it is unbelievably clear and crisp. This is due to the upkeep ofall the equipment by a devoted Production and Engineering Staff. Made up ofonly about 20 members the Production staff is responsible for the general upkeep ofall equip· mcnt, as well as assisting all depart­ments with various shows and sports events to be broadcast over the twin stations. Their motto "The Backbone ofa Great Radio Station" suits them well as they have often pulled many amazing feab to keep the radio station on the air varying from getting basketball and hockey hookups completed only mere seconds from the game's start to dreaming up new challenges for them to conquer (one such chal· lenge is the station's first attempt to broadcast both the hockey and woman's basketball game tonight at the same time). They are also 
responsible for making all the com­
ercials heard on both sidesofthe sta· tion, often adding creative insight to 
make them more interesting. 
College Bowl 
F
or I 0 points and a chanceat a 30· point bonus, where is the Univer­sity of Western lllinois? 
lfyou're not an Illinois nati\·e, 
chances are you'd never think to say 
Macomb. But ifyou were a member 
ofa College Bowl team which par· 
ticipated in last weekend'~ regional 
tournament, you would undoubted­
ly remember not only such trivia as 
cities and universities, but such in· 
formation as the National Football 
League's third all-time leading rus­
her (Franco Harris) how to spell 
Paul McGinn 
features 

euthanasia. and the cities in which 
Lincoln and Douglas debated in 
1860 -all before a moderator had tlnishcd asking these toss-up qucs· tions. 
"Welcome to College Bowl, the varsity sport of the mind." With these words. students from around America begin a game ofquick recall, skill and rhythm which is divided into two ...,-minute halves tilled with all the intensity and spon· taneity ofColeridge's "Kubla Khan" 
The powerhouses of this game, however, include Earlham College in Richmond. Indiana, and Southern Illinoi~ l'nivcrsity at Carbondale. Pep talks include winning one for the Gipper, the Big Dipper (Ursa Major), the clipper (of California Gold Rush fame), and the kipper (a male salmon or sea trout during or shortly after spawning SL'ason ). 
And tor four Nmre Dame stu­
dents, Ray (William) Da,·is, Bill 
(Raymond) :\krtka, Steve 
(Schumann) Zepf. and Paul (Dylan) 
McGinn, the w~:ekend in Macomb 
netted more than pickled herring 
tllcts. 

A 1 SS to 90 win over Ball State 
bandaged a frontal attack in Clara 
Barton fashion which had been thwarted like Pickett's Charge in the previous night's loss to Earlham 210 to 360. 
The victory over the Redbirds "fanned by Priestly's own gas oflife turned the Promethean spark into a .\1rs. O'Leary-scale blaze as the team boiled over Purdue :105 to 1OS and razed Southern Illinois at Ed­wardsville 3.">0 to 90. 
But the !Ire was not to last, as the team came upon its own water tower as the tlrst half bite ofa 2 S to 2"-IS score by the Salukis ofSouthern Illinois at Carbondale braced an adrenalin and caffeine-induced second halfcharge of 180 to -S. 
All told, a team which sported on­ly one veteran ~tag'ed continuou~ comebacks in games which looked more one-sided than the Alamo at halt~ time and which ended as close as the battle between .\1onitor and the :11.errimac. 
But while last weekend had its 
share of pro,·erbialups and downs, 
not to mc:ntion \'·i-s·c·i·s·s·H·u·d·e·s. 
it was by no means a weekend 
devoid ofacrobatics and athletic 
skill; aftt:r all, buttonless shirts, 
thrt:e-day-old socks. and deep-dish 
pizza warmed on the back ofa T. \'. 
makt: for a game which sporb more 
than t:gghead memorization of the 
EncvclojJedia Britannica (though such knowing that the third word on page 86 of\'olume 13 of the 19S8 edition is "Albcric'' docs help). 
But last weekend's results were 
only the icing to a cake (though not 
Marie Antoint:ttc's of 1 ..,89, or 
Rasputin's of 1916) which 
developed from the volunteer ef. 
forts of Dr. Peter Lombardo of the 
Center for Continuing Education. It 
wa~ through Dr. Lombardo's efforts 
and the work of Ann<: Hanson, Pat 
Neville, and Debbi Hensley that a 
1 S-team double elimination tourna­
mt:nt became tht: four-member 
Notre Dame team. 
And your 30-point bonus: How 
many four Hor~cmen were there? 
Friday, February 11, 1983-page 9 

T
he problem with this weekend is not a lack ofchoices ofthings to 
do. The problem ts trymg to dcctdc whtch event can be missed 
and which one cannot. A busv social calendar makes cold blusterv 
winter days like these a little .easier to bear. My recommendation' 
is ...try to !It in everything you can. As for me, I'll be spending the 
early hours of my friday evening at the ACC watching the women 
play Louisiana Tech. 
•THEATRE 

Anton Chekhov is probably best known for his serious, realistic, naturalistic dramas like The TbreeSisters and The Cherry• On·bard. In the last few decades, other authors' names have replaced his as household words. But Neil Simon has rescued Chekhov from oblivion and used his stories as the basis for The Good Doctor, presented by the South Bend Civic Theatre, 701 Portage Ave. Tick· ets are S3.SO for all weekend performances. 
•OPERA 

Combining magic, comedy, romance, and the mysteries ofancient 
Egypt, Goshen College presents Mozart's The Magic Flute, tonight 
through Sunday. The Magic Flute tells the story of Prince Tamino 
and the birdcatchcr Papageno, and their quest for Pamina. the 
daughter ofthe Queen ofthe Night, who has been abducted bv the 
high priest ofisis and Osiris. Their quest is furthered by the help ofa 
magic flute. Performances are in the Umble Center. Curtain time is 8 
p.m. tonight and tomorrow night; 3 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are S4 for students. •MUSIC 
The Notre Dame Department of Music will present Daune Mahy and Carl Kaiser in a vocal Lieder Recital Sunday at 4 p.m in Annen­berg Auditorium. Mahy, soprano, and Kaiser, tenor, will perform songs by Mozart, Beethoven, Hugo Wolf, Robert Schumann, Richard Strauss, and Richard Wagner. General admission is S2 with free ad­mission for students with an ID. 
•MOVIES 

No tllm space will be wasted this weekend as Engineering, Annen­berg, and Knights ofColumbus will pull down their screens and roll a few golden oldies and a couple ofcinematic masterpieces. 
At the Engineering Auditorium tonight, Robert Redford stars in one of his most challenging roles as the warden in Brubaker. Hailed for its powerful portrayal oflife inside the penal system,Brubaker is a tllm that I recommend. Times are 7, 9:1 S, and 11:30 p.m. Sugges­tion: go at 7 to give yourself time to let the movie's impact settle. 
Tomorrow, PeterSellers brightens the screen in TbeReturn ofthe Pink Panther at the Engineering Auditorium. What better way to end a weekend than by viewing the zany antics ofone ofthe masters ofmodern slapstick comedy. Showtimes are...,, 9:1 S, and 11:30 p.m. 
The friday Night film Series presents Peter Wcir's The Last W ar•e 
at the AnnenbergAuditorium at ..,:30 p.m. Richard Chamberlain stars 
as an Australian lawyer who defends tlve aborigines against a murder 
charge. In trying to establish his defense ofthe five men, he enters in­
to the world ofthe aborigines, encountering many unexplanable ex­
periences which seem to relate to the aboriginal concept of 
primeval dream time. Chamberlain, in one of his less he-aided per­
formances, carries the tension of the experience without fail. Ofall 
the movies this weekend, this one gets my highest recommendation. 
The Knights ofColumbus will present the all-time biggest tear· 
jerkcr, Eric Segal'sLoveStory• tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 9, and 
I I p.m. in the Knights ofColumbus building. Ryan O'Neal and Ali :'\1cGraw made their names common to movie got:rs with their per­formances. Bring a hankie or two. Or maybe a box ofPuffs would be better. 
•CHAUTAUQUA 

It may be getting repetitious but no one seems to mind the rcpeti· tion. Support has been outstanding tor the Chance to Dance in Chautauqua, making the sponsoring dorms happy, and Andy Abrams, the man in charge of that multi-purpose space. very happy. After a brief respitt:, the wooden tloor will again be crowded with a couple hundred Notre Dam<: and Sainr Mary's students dancing the night away. This weekend it is Carroll, Dillon, Morrissey, Saint Mary's, Keenan, Lewis, and Pasqucrilla East's turn to sponsorChance to Dance in association with !toward. The tunes will start to play at 9:30p.m. and tin ish up around 1:30 a.m. Admission isS 1. There's no better opportunity to tlnd yourselfa valentine and start offthe rest of the semester with a !>mile. 
•NAZZ 

Iftaped music is not your thing, or ifdancing is not quite your cup oftea, go to our very own down under, the Nazz, to hear some ofthe best jazz on campus. "Jazz at the Nazz," starting at 9, features tlrst up, "Whirlwind" (Barry Hebert, Mike "Spark" Thorton, Mark Conner, Eric Gaertner, and Derek Bond). At 10:30, the Notre Dame FirstJazz Combo (Mike O'Connor, Chris Alferd, Peter Weiss, Rob Ward, Kevin Quinn, and Marshall Scott) takes the stage. Identitlable sources say that this will be a "good show'" Then, tomorrow night,Joe Corpora, a comedian who claims he is a "really funny guy," will try to prove just how funny he is. To close the weekend, Dan Brauweiler and Mark Luchini will be performing a wide variety ofpopular music on guitars and vocals. 
If all else fails, there are plenty ofseats in the ACC for all suppor· 
ters ofwomen's basketball. The time is 7:30p.m. and itis free. Hope 
tu sec you there. 




-------~---~--------~--~----~---~ 
The Observer Friday, February 11, 1983-page 10 
,.. -·-..... 
'v'·-·-, 
\ 


Francesco's Italian Dining 
CCfhe cpQa~tg a~d CJ'Qowettg ghop 
Original Southern Italian Home Cooking 'Everything is a' homemade' 
$29•SOdoz. 
early orders get first choice 
l 
A. 

Specializing in: 
I 
C.
of colors 
Spaghetti a Ia

r 1636 N. Ironwood
c 
Carbonara
Ph. 277-6155 

Melanzani· stuffc '
$12.00doz. 
Edison

....--..~0 0 -6566 
eggplant 

0 Deliveries Available 
Bracioli alia

Valentine Ivy Planters, 
d 
Calabrese·
toND&SMC 

sluffed beet roll
great for gifts! 
BEER AND WINE 
And a variety of
Valentine Balloons 
10% discount on dinners and any : pa~ta and large pizzas with coupon j sandwiches.
Delivery Available 
I 
Also featuring
to N D &SMC students 
FREE for SMC, .50 to LaFortune 
Francesco's Four Season Pizza
We Wire Flowers Anywhere 
Francesco is a former chef of the Holy Cross F3.t'7ers 
Lemans Hall, SMC 284-4597 
for over 21 years 
..CJ'Qowettg {;ott aQQ occag[ohtg ~ ~ 
· Come in and Brows~e 327lincolnway 232-3354 

VILLAGE GREENHOUSE 

Roses $29.951doz. $3.00 each 
Carnations $8.95doz. $1.00 each 
COMPARE OUR PRICES We wire flowers anywhere 272-5335 

~ ~ R> Restaurant and lounge --::;;;jjjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill 
~\· ~~ ~ Open Sunday to serve your(,0'~ ~0 favorite cocktails with live ~ \0" entertainment and dancing 

1516 N.lronwood just east of campus Mon-Sat 11 am-1 am Sun 4pm-12:30am 

On Valentine's Day express your love with flowers. 
Show your student ID and get 10% off your purchase. 409 Dixieway N. 272-6363 
KAMIBOl'S flOf~1\l & C1AROEN SHOJP 
potted plants corsages
319 N. Hill St. cut flowers South Bend IN 46617 centerpieces 

long-stem roses phone: 233~7251 weddings 
•remarkably 
low competitive prices 

•very 
close to campus 

•deliveries 
available 


z~ .~ (j,.~ ~ ~ot inc~~~n~is~unt 

· sale Items 
Universitr Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
This Sunday, it's Brunch at the Marriott! 
Reservations appreciated. Please calf (219) 234-2000. 
123 N. St. Joseph St.. South Bend. lnd1ana 
~··········································"····ll··ll····li••'W 
PRINCESS FLOWERS 
703 W. McKinley Mishawaka phone: 255-4000 
Happy Valentine's Day! 

ll•tllttlttlttlllliJliUJIJfllllliJJlllliiJliUIUIIIItllllllltlltlltlll 
~~()1"tS=J3==~==i=e~~~S========~====================F=ri=da=y,=F=eb=r=uary==I=I=,I=9=B=3==p=~=e==II
By The Ohser!'er and The Associated Press 
Mary DiStanislao and Sonja Hogg traded 
memorie~ and philosophies last night as DiStanislao wound up her week-long tour of campus dorms with an appearance last night at Lewis Hall. The session was held to promote tonight's women's bas­ketball game between Hogg's No. 1 Louisiana Tech Lady Techsters and Notre Dame. They spoke at length about the growth of their programs and the future of women's basketball. "We started with five thousand dollars and three home ballgames," recalled Hogg. "Now, we average about 5,000 fans a game and everywhere we go, we set attendance records. Hogg, whose career record is 238-47, expressed contidence in DiStanislao's growing program. "I believe that the time is gonna come when you (Notre Dame) are going be beating No. 1 teams," she said. -The Obserz•er 
Head track coachjoe Piane and 25 of his top 
athletes travel to Bloomington, Ind. today to takeon the best the Hoosier State has to offer in the State Championship meet. Piane expresses guarded optimistic about the meet, in which· the Irish placed third last year. "Ifwe can have a real solid showing and be at least in the top three that would be a real good meet for us," says Piane. Host team Indiana University, the first place finisher in last year's meet, is the odds-on favorite this year. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team will com-. pete this weekend in the Wheaton Invitational in Wheaton, Ill. Matches are set for Brother Joe Bruno, C.S.C.'s squad today and tomorrow. -The Observer 
The Irishswimmers, male and female, are in action this weekend. The women will spend today and tomorrow at the Indiana Colleges State Meet in Greencastle, where the Saint Mary's Belles will also compete. The Irish men, 6-3, will attempt to bounce back after a loss to Purdue Wednesday when it hosts Wayne State tomorrow afternoon. -The Observer 
• • • Upset 

continuedfrom page 16 
Tony Mcintosh. The pair combined for just three points in Fordham's just-as-easy 65-50 win at the ACC last year. 
"This is a very big win for us," said Mcintosh, a sophomore from Ran­dolph, N.J. "The key was controlling Paxson. We had to keep him olf the foul line and keep him honest." 
The Rams, with a little help from 
the officials, did keep Paxson from 
shooting many free throws -he 
made good on all seven of his at­
tempts, but was denied any more 
tries by an unsympathetic trio of 
referees. 

Paxson, who scored just six points here in last season's debacle with Seton Hall, came back with a solid 19 points, but fouled out for one of the few times in his career thanks to a couple of questionable charging calls in the last few minutes. 
The Irish got strong performances again out offreshmen Tim Kempton ( 14 points, seven rebounds) andJim Dolan ( 14 points, 11 rebounds), each of whom was making a homecoming of sorts -each is about an hour's drive from North 
Jersey. Bill Varner, whose trip home comes next week in Pittsburgh, chipped in ten points. 
But as in last season's loss to 
1...------------------------------...JFordham, cold shooting in key situa-. 
tions proved to be Notre Dame's downfall. The Irish, second in the na­tion with a .560 field goal percent­age, connected on just 46 percent last night after hitting only 37 per­cent a year ago. 
Phelps, as always, remained op­timistic. 
"We just have to regroump," he said. "We'll just go. back to the drawing board. We have two key road games with North Carolina State and Pitt coming up and what we do in those games will control ourdestiny for the rest ofthe season. 

"I can remember Indiana winning the national championship a few years ago with nine losses, and there were teams in th t e tournament last year with ten losses. So if that's our situation, and we beat the right people, then we still have a shot at the NCAA's." 
But if somehow Digger's dream doesn't come true, if the tooth fairy doesn't leave an NCAA bid under his pillow, last night's game will no doubt be one ofthe primary culprits. 
• • • Falcons 
continuedfrom page 16 
on by. We can't get out-physicaled." 
This task will be difficult. The Fal­cons possess a high powered offense averaging over six goals per game. All-American Brian Hills leads the CCHA in scoring with 68 points and heads their explosive attack. 
Goalie Bob McNamara is the man who must most directly fend offthat attack. But, concentration and per­severance should help him out. 
"I have to look at the weekend with a positive attitude," McNamara said. "I can get too nervous, but that would be conceding the game from 

the start -just giving it to them. I 
have to concentrate and never let 
up." 
McNamara's counterpart is senior Mike David who owns a 3.56 goals­against mark and an 1 1-5-1 record. 
"David had played steadily for Bowling Green all year," Smith said. "He's not a superstar, but he is a good consistent goalie." 
For both teams, thoughts of the CCHA playoffs will loom over their heads all weekend. 
"Every weekend now becomes critical," said Smith. "Even for Bowling Green, their fJISt place spot is not locked up." 












The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m to 4:30 p.m. However. classtfieds to appear in the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to tnsertion. All classifieds must be prepatd. 
etther in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
BUFFALO-BUFFALO-BUFFALO' 

KATHY DOYLE IS A SPORTS A huge HELLO Meet1ng for BuH. Club Mon. Feb. 14, ?PM 
LOST-A tan RAINCOAT OVERCOAT 
FANATIC. 
to my only brother at Farley Hall. Pop Farley Roomat the SMC dance in the ACC.It had a pair 
FOR SALE

NOTICES 
-Basketball Star of Gulf Breeze­(basement)!!!
of suade gloves m the pockets. Probably BRUNO'S and Wishes of IRISH GOOD LUCKtaken by m1s-take. If you have it please ORIGINAL FAMILY PIZZA throughout the rematnder of your season Thanks for the favor St. Judecall Dave at 1866. I can help you locale 
USED. OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS A SECOND LOCATION • NORTH ON 
Love you always, Pete! You Know Who yours. 
BOUGHT, SOLD, SEARCHED. U.S. 31, LESS THAN 1.5 MILES FROM
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 Your s1ster, 
ERASMUS BOOKS t027 E. WAYNE N.D. • DELIVERY TO N.D. AND SMC 
Pam Happy Birthday, little Mary NiCChi!!
LOST: One grey, flannel knit, wool scart. 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY­277·4519.
Ugly Duckling Rent·A·Car, Friday Love,
Missing since late Sunday night. Lost on JEFFERSON INTERSECTION. 
noon Ill Monday noon $29.95 Includes PETE: More good luck from a fnend of The Quad 
North Quad. Phil xt486 KEVIN KEENAN and NOEL MARTINEZ: 

Pam·s! Stereo Components L1ke New In Origmal Have a mce weekend! From your secret 150 free miles. Sales tax & Insurance 
extra. Phone Rob for raservatlons 259-The Best R.A. for the "83-·84 year 
lost: gold seiko quartz watch. poss1bly leH Cartons Crown DC 300A Power AMP sweethearts
8459. Congratulations
in locker room at the Rock on 2/4/83. If Crown 1C t50 Pre Amp P1oneerTX 7500 You guys are fast! Cathy Nornsfound, please call K1m at277-7401. 
Tuner Thorens TO t60 C Turntable 2x ATIN: Students Interested 1n volunteer­
20 percent OFF the pnce of a student tick­Come help us celebrate Winning the Your Ternf1c Roommate 
ADS 810 speakers Phone 234-2937 Ing a summer 1n Atnca -arepresentative
et with thiS ad and an 10. Reg1onal Champ1onsh1ps!!!! 
LOST: a pa1r of bnght pink. plastic, bat 
from OPERATION . CROSSROADS glasses near Walsh Hall. Please return
The Acting Company for the Kennedy Friday N1ghl. 9:00p.m. NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY & FR 
SALE: (2) 40watt Marantz Speakers AFRICA w111 be speak1ng w1th students at them, to
Center presents Shakespeare's "THE they are QUite valuable me. AT WOODY"S JOYCE: 
Project/one 20watt Rece1ver Best OHer the Center for Soc1al Concerns on Fnday.Thanks. Maureen x8008 
TWELFTH NIGHT" 8:00PM, Feb. 12, at t658 Turtle Creek West How can a Un1vers1ty that elected 
PH 1540 Feb 11, in semtnar room 1 -11 am to
Century Center. Box oH1ce: 284-9ttt. -All Members Ronald Reagan. support a certa1n 
noon and 1 pm to 2:30. INTERESTED -Honorary Members Boycott? Just remember who broughtLOST: On Monday Night's tt :30 shuttlE!, 
PERSONS WELCOME. 
Don't forget to shop at Pandora's on -Steamboat PartiCipants youlass1e!
an Olympus in a blue case. If found 
please call284-5487. 

Fiday aftemoons from 3·6 p.m.. Huge -Fast Fnends Reluctantly Yours, 
TRIO AUDITIONING profic1ent acoustic
d1scounts on both new & used books. (For 1nfo call 277-0992) Cory (Mm-Mm Good!) Stewart 
gUitar player. harmony vocals. For 1nfo.
PERSONALS

Remember we buy back your text books Yours in snow, 
Lost: Blue Tra1lw1se jacket at Farley party call Lynn 6459 or Dan 3549. 
937 So. Bend Ave. E.M.J. Dearest Lon 
on Saturday. Found: Blue Trailw1se jacket How I do adore thee nearly ident1cal. Call Frank t774 
Band1es. don't forget 
TYPING The_ IRISH women are com1n· outton1ghl. W1th features so fatr, morals so fatr Tomorrow 1s the b1g event of the
Jack1e Boggs JUGGLER BEAT TECH. a more tantahztng Venus ex1sts nowhere
A HANDMADE MONKEY SOCK semester. Semt-Formal Valentine Dance. 
684-8793 STUFFED ELEPHANT WAS LOST The Juggler is now accepting fiction, Oh Lon. lm sorry about my plight.
Keenan9-2. 
NEAR THE LIBRARY ON 2/7/83/ IT poetry. essays photography. graphics. LAST DAY TO ORDER MARDI GRAS but w1th a little more coercton Ill .. tonrte. 
Come stag or bnng a fnend 
SPECIAL FOR VALENTINES DAY­BELONGS TO ANNIE LIGHT. A FIVE­etc. for the Spnng t983 1ssue. SubmiS­PICTURES! LAFORTUNE-12PM·2PM. J. SLAW 
LOVESTORY YEAR-OLD GIRL. PLEASE RETURN TO sions should be turned in at the English THE PICTURE MAN. 
Allanta.
SEE IT AT THE KofC 734 P.E. THANX OHice ,309 O"Shag (Juggler ma1lbox) GET READY FOR SOME ROCK N FUN 
Are you g01ng to or through Atlanta for
FRI. AND SAT. 7, 9, tt IIIATTENTIONIII THE ROOMS 
spnng break? I could sure use a nde. 
WSND DOES IT AGAINII THE KINETICS Coming back early for GMAT by chance?
"LOOK FOR THE WOMEN MOVIE 

Need nde toSt.louis2/1'1 or 2/t8. Laura WEEK FOR THE FIRST TIME IN STUDENT AND PSYCHO CAPONES 

Need nde one way or the other. Call Jeb 
4432. Tomghi"TAXI DRIVER.. 7:30 & 9:30. St. BROADCASTING HISTORY WSND FROM CHICAGO COMING SOON 
at8641. Thanks. 
BRINGS YOU THE N.D. VARSITY 

SPORTS SIMULCAST AS WE WHOMEVER: Thanl<s much but I'm g01ngSUMMER PROGRAMS -SMC & NO 
FOR RENT 
SMC Carroll Hall SMAK! BRING YOU THE N.D. nuts P~ase expla1n


STUDENTS HOCKEY GAME WITH LIVE 
MEET A KISSER. Sponsored by Happy St. Val's Day! DB
LOST/FOUND 
London (May 18-June 17), Rome (June
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT REPORTS FROM THE GIRLS'
Semor Class. Send a certificate SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO GOOD BATTLE VERSUS LA. TECHII

13-July 12). Classes available In Art,
redeemable for a KISS to your favorite! JB AREAS 2773604 LIVE ON WSND AM64 STARTING U looked Thurs. -d1dn"t U? I knew U 
Business & Econ, Education, History,On sale Monday through Fnday. 
Italian, Philosophy, & Music. Organiza.
LOST GOLD SEIKO WATCH 1t :OOAM-t :OOPM. Feb. 7-tt. For only 25 AT7:25PMIIJOINUS would. I've seen you 1n the d1n10g hall. at 
tional meeting on Feb. 23 at 7 p.m.
LEFT IN LOCKER AT THE ROCK STUDENT RENTAL. 4-BEDROOM THE VOICE OF THE IRISHIII the movieS& In Oilton Hall. too. rm loOking(London) and 8 p.m. (Rome) in 348cents 1n LAFORTUNE. Send a K1ss for 
ON 1/24/83. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL HOUSE. CALL232-4057. 272-7767. Valentu18·s Day--stgn up now!!!!!!! WSNDAM64 for a Valentine & I'm hop1ng it's U 
Madeleva. For Info, call Prof. A.A.
GARY AT x4388. D 
Black (284-4460 or 27~·3726).
HOUSE T1m Connolly NEAR CAMPUS ON S. BEND AVE CALL Here 11 IS, finally. the recogmtion that IS 
REWARD$$$ STUDENT RENTAl 3-BDRM NO SOPHOMORE SKI TRIP REFUNDS 
can now be p1cked up in the Student Ac­BEING JUST DeTREMPE"S & NAPOLI'S 
Lad1es of PW.
LOST!!!! NOTRE DAME class nng. A 239-6244 or 283-8657 long overdue. The success of the Chance 
IIVIIIe oHice. Any quest1ons. call Gary ROOMMATE WON'T WORK GOLD lad1es d1nner nng. w1th a GOLD VOTE to Dance program has been phenomenal. 
8022. ANYMORE. JOE SAGAN WILL BE 2t
Stni<s -Prez
stone lnscnption on tnside ts --8-B.F. ·a4 Cheap Rent & low ulllihes: $235. t-3 · and 1fs all because of YOU! Keep up the ON FEB.t3 AND WILL HAVE TO BE AMcCrudden -VP 
--If found please call BRIDGET at 8565. Bedroom Apt. $165-185 oH Portage 289-Need R1de To Connecticut For Spnng good work. REAL MAN NOW! IF THERE ARE ANYof hall counc11
or JIM at3274. Or come by 325 Lew1s or t687 Break W1ll Share Usual Please Call Dan A:~an GIRLS WHO KNOW JOE. PLEASE 216 Keenan. at6824. 
HELP HIM OUT THIS WEEKEND ANDHEY BAMA· Get a clue! A certa1n SMCer 

Please help!! THANK YOU!! WANTED! ROOMMATE TO SHARE AN Deer Simon, GIVE HIM A UTILE INSTRUCTION--712
likes you! (Give her a call) BAR MELODY grace ph.t sex( t739)
APT. AT CAMPUS VIEW INQUIRE AT I've got the pin -now hand over the LOST: Yellow !older w1th 277-t708 OR 283-8327 doorknobII
Notre Dame BAR MELODY SENIORS
emblem on the front e1ther last Monday or BAR MELODY K.S. What ever happened to the blond, blue­
Valentme·s Day Celebration
Tuesday (2/t Or 2/2) labeled "Chnsllan House:4 bedroom. near NO. $290 permo More 1nfo soon eyed, homecom1ng queen cheerleader­
at Corbys. 9-t am
Scnptures.. If found please call Debbie Fall or summer. No Ul11il1es. Phone (3t9) KATHY S type that was supposed to fall in love with Strawberry Margantas & 
234-796t. Thanks. 322-8753. Patty. Saml Mary·s student: Let h1m know how They tell me you're sweet: Tom McKenna tour years ago? T1me is
Draft Beer Specials l"m betting tt"S true. 
LOST· t/2 carat diamond on gold sett1ng Room for rent. kitchen. laundry pnvlleges Valent1ne personals Ten cents per seven rm counttng the mtnutes bemg accepted HI GEORGE'! 
(little) you care Buy Observer runmng out, g~rls Applications STILL 
for necklace etther tn Bustness Bldg. or Males only. $30/wk Safe ne1ghborhood characters (And they say you can't buy T1l it's 11me to meet you! 
Just wanted to w1sh you a Happy
ACC on Wednesday. 2/2 Call277-0458 287-0t73 after 4 p.m love.) Come to the SMC OBSERVER YOUR SECRET ·sERENADE SENDER.. 
Valentine·s Day! I m1ss you ' 
early A.M office in the basement of Reg1na South. HEY BAMA Get a clue! A certa1n SMCer
Pocohantas

Sem1-Furn 2BdRm Apt near NO Utilit1es 
t2:30 to 3 p.m .. Monday through Fnday. likes you! (G1ve her a call!) LOSTI!! NO CLASS RING(83). NAME Pd Less Gas Ph 272-026t PASQUERILLA WEST RESIDENTS 
GO IRISH!! BEAT LOUISIANA TECH!! 
POSSIBLY Don I forget to vote for 
INSIDE LOST AT Q: It's been rumored that your lavonte 
SMC(MOREAU·O"LAUGHLIN HALL). two Rooms W1th Bath All Utilities Pa1d Can PAT CARVAJAL do 2t shots? Fmd KATHY KEMP-HALL PRESIDENT body of water IS the ocean because rt --can
LOVE STORY . SEE IT TONIGHT OR
LAST SEEN OVER THE WEEKEND OF Male Preferred Pnvate Entrance 288-out tomte at Club C. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! KATHLEEN DOYLE -HALL VICE­be calm & somet1mes Wild". lntr19U1ng. II
TOMORROW AT THE K of C. 7, 9. 11
0955 PRESIDENT
t/28-1130: IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO Love, Irma & Tern bnngs to mmd that famous poem by PLEASE CALL 283-3346 Johann Ve1sbach. The Ocean and Me
MRS. F.. Happy Birthday and Happy B1ll·
nchy oconnor...happy valentme·s day to Happy Birthday Pat! Hope your 21st year "Ne'er wild nor stormy enough IS the

Day! Have a great weekend! Love. Your
To whoever acc,denlly took my be1ge the man who must censor every story he ts ternflc! sea,
ne1ghbor in 7 41 
overcoat at the ACC dance Fnday n1ght. wntes (but why?) jane the fonda benste1n That 1! cannot be conquered by the likes please return tt I have yours! Call Bnan at of me:·
WANTED ]
83t5. KATHY DOYLE REALLY WANTS TO Dearest Jean. So true. so true 

BE A SPORTS COPY EDITOR!II DAN BRAUWEILER & MARK LUCHINI Lets get h1gh on your 21st birthday! I JD LOST -one tiger and one m1nd. Do you PERFORM ON ACOUSTIC GUITAR know your are go1ng to have a wonderful know where they are 01• (No towels Need RIDE TO PURDUE for weekend of T1m ··veg.. Judge Sling Burning Party THIS SATURDAY NITE AT 10:30 IN THE and happy birthday so get psyched. All YO Dean' please) Feb. 18-20. Call Bruce 1360 TONIGHT (Sling Optional) NAZZ my love,D1ana 
BEE-EER'!!! 


~-~---·---------------~ 
The Observer Friday, February 11, 1983-page 12 
·. 

continuedfrom page 16 
ha~ been sweeping I 0 rebounds while scoring 1-t point~ an outing. She combines with small forward Lori Scott and Lawrence to give Tech a rugged front line which may be able to h;unmer the Irish on the boards. 
Tech power doesn't stop tht:re. however. 
Kim Mulkey, the Techsters' 5---i point guard, is the sparkplug of their offense. Mulkey, a teammate of Lawrence on this summer's touring 
U.S. National Team, averages seven assists a night and is the second all­time Tech assist leader. 
"She's a tough little brat," says DiS­tanislao of the sure-handed Mulkey, \vho was named by CBS as Most Valuable Player in last year's national 

• • • Techsters 
away from us," says DiStanislao. "Tech's guard~. and their small for­ward (Scott) are extremely quick. They'll capitalize on lllrnovers. and we hav<.: trouble with that. We just can't give them anything. We've got to force them to play some on of 
tense. 

"At our t::nd, we have to be able to 
pick and choose our shots." 

Even ifthe Irish women play their type ofgame. Tech's inside play may be too much for them. The Techsters are listed in the national top ten in scoring margin, won-loss percentage, shooting from the· tiel d. scoring defense. and rebou11ding margin. 
Despite the intimidating num­bers. though. which are DiStanislao refuses to write off Notre Dame. 
"You should never. t::ver. read th<.: name on a j<.:rsey." says DiStanislao. "It's just a matter of matching up with the pt.:rson you're supposed to match up against." 
Tht.: signitkanc<.: of this game lies not in the outcome. but in what it does for '\iotre Dame's still­embryonic program. The Irish have almost nothing to lose and every­thing to gain by putting in a good performance before what should be the largest crowd ever to see a Notre Dame women's basketball game. 
"I just want to see a good effort," says DiStanislao. "There's no reason we can't go with 'em head-to-head. We'll only get blown out if we lay down and dit.:. 
"If wt:: go down. we'll go down lighting." 
IRISH ITEMS -Sharpshooting freshman Lynn Ebben will have to sit out tonight's game. She has a sprained left ankle and will be back next week. 
Belles to compete in tournament 
By DAVE IRWIN 
.\ports Writer 

Winning just one out of its last eight games and sporting a 6-11 record. the Saint :\1ary's basketball team has no illusions of grandeur during thb we<.:kend's six-team tour­ney at the t:niversity of Wisconsin­Green Bay. 
"We want to win a least one," said 
Head Coach \1ike Rouse. "That i~ 
just being rt.:alistic." 

Saint Mary's will play ~orthland College in ib tlrst game. If the Belle~ win, they will play the host team in the second game. Rouse labels tht· (;re~n Bay team as the tournament favorite. 
If th<.: Belles get by Northland. 
they will bt.: assured of no worse 
than a fourth-place finish in the tour­
ney. To do so. howev<.:r, they will 
need sophomore center Missy \'an 
Ort to continue her ~uperlative play. 
Van On, after sitting out several games during mid-season due to in­jury. ha~ bt.:<.:n dominating. She b currently the top rebounder in the district with a 12.-average. She also averages 1.~.5 points a game. 
Besides the season statistic~. \'an On ha~ pickt·d up the district Player of the Week award ti>r hcr outstand· ing pertimnance la~t week. 
But the ke~ to the Bdks' succe~s this \Vt.:ekend may lie in th<.: fan thev art.: healthv for the nr~t team in long while. ~ta~tlng guard :\1ary \1c<juil­lan, Saint \1ary's defensive K<.:. is ex­pected to play after being taken to the hospital during :\1onday night'~ 66-S-t loss to Valparaiso with a pos­sible concussion. 
"We hav<.: peoplt.: coming oli in­juries. but th<.:y are able to play," said Rouse. "It is the ht.:althit::st we've be<.:n sine<.: our tlrst game " championship win over Cheyney State. She i~ a spectacular pa~ser. a near-perfect ballhandler. and a defensive magician who comes up with the key steal at the key time. 
Mulkey's running mate will be jennifer White. The ';-9 senior, who alternated with .\1ulkey at point guard last season holds the Techster mark for single-season assists. 
The Techsters have some depth, as co-Head Coach Leon Barmore can go with 6-2 ct::nter Tia Sossamon. 5-7 point guard Pam Gant, and ';-I I for­ward Kay Konerza. 
Mulkey is the catalyst of Louisiana Tech's running attack. The Techsters, like UCLA and Arizona State, will probably try to run over the Irish. 
"We can't allow the tt::mpo to get 
_,.------­
·---------------­
The Observer Friday, February 11, 1983-page 13 
'Broads' arrive in land of Czar 
Once upon a time, a long, long, time ago, there worked in Notre Dame's Sports Information office a ter­
Craig Chval 

rible and frightening man called Czar. 
All ofthe students who worked in the Sports Informa­Sports Writer tion Department were very afraid ofCzar. Whenever he would walk back to check on his kingdom, the students would tremble and shake. Czar relished the fact that his subjects were so intimidated by him, and he had plenty oftricks to perpetuate the fear. 
Among many other things, Czar didn't care much for 
changed even more. Notre Dame gives scholarships to women's basketball, and it was one of his favorite 
female basketball players, and instead ofGrace and Tri­sayings to use in imtimidating his students. 
State, the Irish play one of the toughest schedules in the "All right," Czar would growl with a sadistic gleam in country. his eye. "We've got a Broads' game tonight. Who's going 
And nobody is resorting to such coercive means of to work?" courting new fans. And with that the students would scatter, trying to "First, the fans have to be attracted for one reason or hide behide tables or desks. Surely this Broads' game, 
another," says Notre Dame coach Mary DiStanislao. whatever it was, must be very awful. "But. for whatever reason, what we think they'll find, 
Some ofthe students escaped, but a few unlucky ones especially at this school because people here know were forced to work at the games. One ofCzar's young­their basketball, is a team that executes well. er subjects wasn't favored enough to avoid being sen­"We don't think people won't come out and see us 
tenced to one of the games. because we don't dunk the ball or come down the floor 
He was, by his own admission, a male chauvinist, and in four seconds. The educated fans will come out to see as he watched one of the first-year team's games, he a good team. couldn't help thinking that this was one of the cruelest Tonight, DiStanislao's good Notre Dame team goes 
tricks Czar could play on him. against a great team at the Athletic and Convocation Center -Louisiana Tech. And, as even DiStanislao puts it, they will vie against overwhelming odds. 
But that doesn't mean Mary D., whose young team
"'All right,' Czar wouldgrowl ... 
was mugged by a pair of national powers last month on (We've got a Broads' game the West Coast, has given up hope. "I've never seen the kids so fired up," she says. "And
tonight. Who's going to work?, 
I've never seen them make so many strides in a week." DiStanislao hasn't had any problems convincing her players that they have a shot at knocking off the No. 1 He had watched the NO men's team on television as 
Techsters. long as he could remember, and had even seen the team 
''The kids know they haven't beat a Top 20 team," play in person once when they came to Chicago. And 
DiStanislao says. "But they also know why." According to DiStanislao, the Irish, who have been
this bunch ofbroads, er, women, throwing the ball back plagued by inconsistency, will have to play a nearly
and forth out of bounds was hardly what he envisioned flawless game to pull off the upset.
when had come to Notre Dame. ·'They're coming into our arena and playing Notre
A few years later. after Czar's reign of terror had Dame, which makes them vulnerable, I guess," she says.
ended, the same student found himself at another ··we're not exactly in the same position as the men's
womens game. The faded memories he had carried team in 19..,4 when they snapped UCLA's streak," says
since his first exposure to women's basketball hardly DiStanislao, who has been touring the campus' dorms
seemed appropriate. everv night this week.
The more he ""atched the game, the better he liked "The atmosphere around here has been amazing.
what he saw. Beyond enjoying the talent of the women Every one is tired up, and we're expecting a good
on the court, there was something very refreshing about watching players skinning their knees and bruis­
response." And don't let Czar tlnd out, but one ofhis former sub­
ing their bodies in nearly-empty gyms and far from the ject will be in the crowd tonight. 
Domino's Pizza breaks through with The Price DestroyerN! 
No ordinary pizza, The Price DestroyerN is eliminating the high cost of a 9-item pizza while bringing you all the toppings you love I 
The Price DestroyerN includes 9 carefully selected and proportioned toppings, all for the price of a 5·item pizza: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Extra Cheese, Green Olives, Onions, Green Peppers, Ground Beef, Sausage, Ham 12" Price DestroyerN $8.94 16" Price DestroyerN $12.94 
Prices do not include 
applicable sales tax. Coke available in 16 oz. cups. 
,-------------------------,I The students from the University of Toronto I : will not be coming to Notre Dame this year 1 1 due to lack of student interest and adminis-I 1 trative problems. The students of Notre Dame II who are participating in the exchange to 1 1 Toronto -our trip is still on. I 1 We will be leaving Notre Dame on 
I

I February 24 at 5 PM. The bus leaves from the 1 1 Main Circle. I I I I All students who have paid their $3 for II the Chicago trip this weekend are to come in I 1 and pick up their refund in the Student I I Government Office. 1 
·-------------------------~ 

IN COOPERATION WITH HOWARD 
HALL PRESENT... 
A Special Valentine's Day 
CHANCE TO DANCE 
FRIDAY, FEB. 11 
La Fortune Ballroom OJ, Refreshments, & 
R;:R;R~Z~!~ 
-----------------------------~ 
The Notre Dame Student Union 
is searching for 
nextyea~sleaders 
Applications for Student Union Director and Comptroller for '83·'84 are now available from the Student Union secretary Get Involved and Make a Difference 
L---~~J?!iE~ti~l!~.!l.!~_d_L!_~f_e_~-1_~.J 
rum 

I 
III 
h'--, 
I 
TO ALL Juniors interested in a 
Student Manager's Position 
otthe 1983·84 Senior Bar 
~Applications will be available this 
I II ·~. 

Thursday and Friday in the Student Activities office, First Floor La Fortune 
~Applications must be returned to Student Activities by ~ Tuesday, Feb.~983 
I Qo~db
L~~~~~.IIIR::l:i·''-@111·-~-~-'•'••f@ll:•il}§l•• 




The Observer Friday, February 11, 1983 -page 14 
Taking the South Shore to Chicago this Weekend? 
Van Lines Departs NO Main Circle 7:50 prn SMC Circle 8:00pm for the 8:35pm train! Returning Sunday evening? Van Lines will pick up students arriving at 7:10 & 9:05! 
Cost is $1.00 each way. Sponsored by your Student Union and the Student Activities Offioe. 

N.C. State tomorrow 
Notre Dame seeks win on road 
By RICH O'CONNOR ~ihilities up in the air, there may not 6-0 senior Sidney Lo\ve. Averaging 
Sports Writer 

be a greater stumbling block than I 0 points and hlUr rebounds a game, RALEIGH, N.C. -With no time to 
N.C. State. Lowe give~ third-yesr Wolfpack reflect on last night's loss to 
Since losing senior guard Dereck coach Jim Valvano ail experienced Fordham, Notre Dame will arnve 
Whittenburg to a foot injury in the hand. here today to play North Carolina 
I 1 th game of the season, the 6-11 Thurl Bailey is the second State in its second consecutive road Wolfpack have gone 5-4, bringing remaining senior in the Wolfpack game. The 12-8 Irish will he looking their season record to 13-7. Whit· starting lineup. Bailey has been to avenge a 62-42 defeat last season 
tenhurg was averaging almost 1 7 playing the forward position for N.C. in the friendly confines of the ACC. 
points and three rebounds at the State, averaging 13 points and eight While the regional cameras of 
time ofhis injury. rebounds a game. Inevitably NBC watch, Notre Dame will seek its 
Replacing Whittenburg has been drawing the defensive assignment second road victory in seven tries. 6-4 freshman guard Ernie Myers, against the opponents' big man, "We're 1-5 on the road. Our losses 
who averages 14 points a game. Bailey has responded well, blocking have put us in a position ofhaving to 
"Give N.C. State credit," says 60 shots and making a dozen steals. prove to the NCAA selection com­Phelps. "Theylost four of their first "Bailey and Lowe give N.C. State mittee that we d<eserve to make the 
five games without Whittenburg, maturity and experience," says tournament," says Irish coach 
and have now won the last four. Phelps. "They really go to the of­Digger Phelps. "The Marquette vic­Losing Whittenburg was definitely a fensive boards, and they are excel­tory isn't enough. We need to win 
blow, but Ernie Myers has done a lent transition players. Lowe is an our remaining three road games great job filling in for him. He's going excellent playmaker and if he gets 
(N.C. State, Pitt, and DePaul) and the 
to be a great one before he's the tempo of the game up, he can home game with Dayton." 
finished." really hurt you with his passing and With post-season playoff pos-
Joining Myers in the backcourt is scoring ability. We've got to control 



Emmons 

~ tN
Pinocch{'D 
e 
v
Georgetown 
e 
I
Plaza 

~ J~nl~er 
d 
Applications for 

Editor-In-Chief of the 1984Dome Yearbook 
Available NOW in the Student Activities Office, 1st Floor La Fortune. Must be completed & returned to the Student Activities Office by Monday, February 21. 
PltiOCCHIO'S PIZZA PARLOR 
~ ast DeUvery Service HAPPY HOUR 
27~7-4522 Mon-Fri 4 pm-6 pm Fri·Sat 8 pm-12 am
We delh,er Thurs-Sun 
4 ft. wide screen TV 
Hours: 
Mon-Thurs 11 am-12pm Fri-Sat 11 am-1:30am Sun 4 pm-11 pm 
Beer Specials 
Mon-Thurs 8:00 pm-10:00 pm $2.00 Pitcher I .50Q: Mugs 
------------. 
I 
.----------~
~This coupon good for oneI 1 This coupon good for onel 
I LARGE PIZZA I1 MEDIUM PIZZA I 1 $2.00 OFF I I $1.000FF 
I
L-----·-----• ~---------­
Please-one coupon per pizza 
JAZZ at the NAZZ! 
Frid;1y, Feb. 11 Saturday, .Feb. 12 Featuring: Joe Corpora 9·10:30 Whirlw1ind 9-10:30 -Comedian 1st ND Jau Combo 10:30 Dan Brauweiler & Mark Luchini 10:30 
-Guitar &Vocal 

A NEW SERVICE 
FROM YOUR STUDENT UNION Bus Transportation from N D/SMC to jthe South Shore Station. 
Friday Feb. 11  Sunday Feb. 13  
7:50  ND Main Circle  Trains arrive at South Shore  
8:00  SMC Holy Cross  at 7:10 & 9:05pm.  
8:20  South Shore Stn.  Bus will be there to Transport  
8:35  Train Departs  Students back toND/SMC.  

Regular Bpm Van Lines will not run. 
FORONLY$1 EACH WAY 
the game tempo, keep their transi­
tion offense from hurting us and 
keep them offthe boards to win." 
Handling the pivot spot for the 
Wolfpack is 6-11 Cozell Mc:;Queen. A 
back-up to 7-5 Chuck Nevitt last 
year, McQueen inherited the job 
upon Nevitt's graduation. Only a 
sophomore, McQueen is still learn­
ing the ropes, and is averaging three 
points and tlve rebounds a game. 
Completing N.C. State's starting 
front line is 6-7 Lorenzo Charles. 
The sophomore forward is averag­
ing six point~ and five rebounds a 
game for Valvano's squad. 

"Charles and .\1cQueen both hit 
the board~ well," says Phelps. 
"They're the type ofplayers we have 
trouble with." 

Valvano's top reserve this season has been 6-0 sophomore Terry Gan­non. Currently leading the nation in three-point field goal percentage, Gannon has been averaging six points a game. 
"Terry is the best outside shooter we have," says Valvano. "He's also our most consistent at the foul line (leading tht> team at 94 percent), and I've been impressed with his ball handling and scoring since Whitten­
burg's been hurt. In adversity 
sometimes good things emerge." 
The emergence of Terry Gannon 
may not be enough for the 
Wolfpack. Tomorrow's game is to be 
played without the Atlantic Coast 
Conference's noble experiments 
and a team that's shooting 48 per­
cent from three-point range scores a 
lot more points then the same 
school playing wiyhout it. The Irish 
are shooting 56 percent -among the nation's best -and if they can succeed in keeping Valvano's squad from scoring garbage baskets off of­fensive rebounds, an Irish win is not unthinkable. 
IRISH ITEMS -"Winds of War" Dept.: There were 55 fouls whistled in last night's Fordham contest, with 
no less than five players having to be 
helped off the court at one time or another. In all, four players fouled out ...Cecil Rucker flew back to Notre Dame this morning to have his eye, which was injured in the first half, examined. Dolan was taken to a nearby hospital late last night to have stitches to close up a cut over his eye ...What is left of the team flew down to Raleigh early this morning, escaping New York and an one-foot snowfall that is expected there todav ...fordham, shooting 
just 66 peicent from the line going 
in, hit 1 percent ( 2 S of31 ) last night 

LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! 
. Omega Productions, Inc. 
is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type 
of  music  for  any  type  
of event.  Parties  are  our  
specialrv.  Custom  music  

programming is availabl~ Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 
--~-----
IheCIKe~er========================================== 
Weekend 
Friday, February 11, 1983-page 15 
Bloom County 

Simon 
Ill r;'ft'#E.. , ' 111#/} !F f olf... 
tiT .lbW#? HI /..Ofil5. GO /flf£/fO. 
I

I 
Fate 
Wl-\ffi"? 

"I HATE YOJ." 
IT'S RE.V{:RSW
E«J STJMVU. 
BREAKS ritlWN CJJR. 
SOOerY'5 ~NT SOOAl-13ARRI£R5. 
Berke Breathed 

)eb Cashin 
50 HOW L<W::i YOIJ (:()T TO liVE ! 


GOSH, CXJlL, YOU I..GU'C_ KIND OF lrE/11. /
Wlff/T'6 WAtli!G ? 

I /(£/1/) Tlfi!T. 
N!NET££N·n.JO l'a/5 
HOL't TLlHPIN' f 

ACROSS 29 Walked 

llE"'i, t1~N, r wr-.R vou:tf Hosmu:~ ONE or TIIEI'1 lA. Of TOtot.ITO HOSE· HEADS 
fills WEEI(·(NO, E"li. 
' 

YEP. t .,., ((OIN4 TO qO flU( H111 lAP Rll!Hi 
NOW. 

\ l THINK I'LL TAC, ALONq. I 
The Daily Crossword 
10  11  




©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 2111/83 All Rights Reserved 
Photius 

T H£A~D TIIE"!E Gwts (owi.D DmiK. UK( FtsH, 
~T THIS I~ RIDIWLOI.Ir. 
58 Revolt 15 Gumbo 
Campus 
Friday, Feb. 11 
• 
3:30 p.m. Philosophy Colloquium, "Darwin, Sociobiology, and the Brain," Pro[ Ed· ward Manier, Library Lounge 

•5:15 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry •-:o, 9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Love Story," K of C Hall, Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus, S 1 

• 
7, 9:15, and 11 :30 p.m. -Film, "Brubaker," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Women's ·GolfTeam, $1 

•7:30 
and 9:30p.m. -Women and Film Series, "Taxi Driver," Carroll Hall, SMC, Sponsored by SAPB, $1 

•.,.:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "The Last Wave," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Women vs. Louisiana Tech, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND vs. Bowling Green, ACC Fieldhouse 

•8 
p.m. -ND-SMC Theatre Presentation, "Little Match Girl," O'Laughlin Auditorium, S2.50 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, "Jazz at the NAZZ," Whirlwind Saturday,Feb.l2 

•2 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Men vs. Wayne State, Rockne Memorial 

•3 
p.m.-Basketball, NO Men vs. North Carolina State, Reynolds Coliseum, Televised by NBC 

•6:30 
p.m. -Evening of Dances and Music, Folk Dances from Pakistan, LaFortune Ballroom 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Love Story," K of C Hall, Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus, Sl 

•7 
p.m. -Black Cultural Arts Festival, Talent Show, Library Auditorium 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Return of the Pink Panther," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Keenan Review, Sl 

•8 
p.m. -ND-SMC Theatre Dance Presenta­tion, "Little Match Girl," O'Laughlin Auditorium, S2.50 

•9 
p.m. -Comedy at the NAZZ, Featuring Joe Corpora 

•10:30 
p.m. -NAZZ, Dan Brauweiler and Mark 


Lochina Sunday, Feb. 13 
•2 
p.m. -ND-SMC Theatre, "Little Match Girl," O'Laughlin Auditorium, S2.50 

•4 
p.m. -Lieder Recital, Carl Kaiser and Daune Mahy, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Crossroads: Who Am I? Where Am I Going?" Fr. Greg Sakowicz, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore Class 


The Far Side 


"Hey! Look at me, everybody! I'm a cowboy! ... Howdy, howdy, howdy!" 
1 Actor Erwin 4 Dance step 7 "-of Two 
Cities" 12-up(con· fesses) 
14 --the· 
minute 16 Of speech 17 Basketball 
play 19 Kind of 
murals 20 Snoozing 21 Escape 23 Downs or 
salts 25 Keiep 26 Named once 27 Crown 
31 Coming-out 
girl 33 Equipped 36 Numerical 
prefix 40 Pipe 41 USSR-China 
river 42 Carpet 
material 43 Poison 44 Furnished 46 Margery 
of rhyme 49 Simmer 50 Show sign 51 -Alamos 54 Understood 56 Kind of 
orange 
2111183 

, .... ~~._..,~~~~,-~~~<)IC(·. 
i Go skiing for the night Coly Gai:d 
517 1 

~ with the Student Union! '\~;;··;~ A
u 

If Sagtnaw• ­
I 1 ~ 
~ • . :-G.eoJ 
R 
I • '-313 

.·..· Where? Swiss Valley Ski Resort in Michigan ,... C•w·'Lans~n?.;,-r ~·~ When? This Friday, Feb 11 
1 What time? 5 pm --11:15 pm I 
How much? $12 includes lift, rentals, and transportation I 
Tickets are on sale at the record store, 1st floor, LaFortune I 
··•)!IIC{·~;.a<~~:~~~=~~lMU-OBf :m..l 
61 Copies, in a way 64 Up­
(cornered) 65 Meal 67 Deal 68 Use a sieve 69 Excoriate 70 Shaped 
a log 71 Marieor Jeanne 
72 Unitof illumina­tion 
DOWN 1 Davenport 2 "-the 
night before..." 3 Like some beds 
4 Signifi· cance 5 Coarse 
person 6 Pierce 7 Fly 8 Honky word 9 Bring to 
an effect 
10 Astronomer Warren de­
11 Make jubilant 13 Phase 
18 Rouse 22 Complete 24 Central 
theme 27 Irvin or Ty 28 Emanation 30 Stores for 
cold cuts 
32 "Hopalong Cassidy" actor 
34 Nourish 35 Same 37 Tight 
squeeze 38 Seethe 
sights 39 Hep 42 East Coast 
city 45 Having 
a will 47 Granted 48 Misery 51 Disinclined 52 Eccentric 53 Kind of 
vote 55 Checks 57 Abuse 59 Adam­60 Kristoffer-
son 62 Jacob's brother 63 Charon's river 66 Newt 

tJ"ior Bar 
Pre-VQientine's DQy celebration this weekend atSenior Bar 
Applications for 1983-84 student 
.. 
manager positions still available 


Fordham wins 
Digger upset in homecoming game 
By CHRIS NEEDLES hovering like a machete over their preparing for their delay," said Sports Editor heads. Ideally, they cannot afford Phelps. "We were ready for it. We any more losses and, even more im-had the right people in the game at 
.. EAST RUTHERFORD, N.j. -It's a portantly, desperately need to beat the right times in key situations. But rare occasion when Digger Phelps somebody good. Fast. the key rebound, the key loose ball can return to his New York roots, Suddenly, the euphoria of the up­went their way. have his team face Fordham, the set at Marquette a month ago is just a "You've got to give Fordham school he left (some say Jeserted) in memory. credit. They do things right, they 1971, and have his arrival garner "We just can't win on the road," control the game with their delay of­nary a headline in the New York said Phelps, whose team has fense. They played with a lot of papers. dropped those five away games by a heart, they wanted it bad and they 
The "resignation (i.e. firing)" of total ofonly 22 points. "We have yet deserve it. It's their moment, so give Walt Michaels overshadowed even to have the maturity to play a full 40 them credit for it." Digger. minutes of basketball on the road Fordham took its biggest lead, 63­
Perhaps after Notre Dame's this year. We can't usc our freshmen 50, with four minutes left betore damaging ''1-69 loss at the Byrne inexperience as a copout anymore Notre Dame woke up and attempted :Yieadowlands Arena here last night, -they've played 20 games now." a comeback. ATim Kempton bucket Phelps can slink out of town as l 1nlike the other road losses, pulled the Irish within 6..,-61 with anonymously as he came in -with-Notre Dame fell behind early. last 1 :0 1 remaining, hur the Rams hit six out anybody, especially the NCAA night. When ,\1ike Ci>oper hit a short straight free throws to ice it. Tournament selection committee, jumper with 1.~:"±5 to go in the first for Ram coach Tom Penders. noticing. half, the Rams went ahead I 1-1 0. whose team was without the 
The Irish. now 12-H, arc in a hind. The Irish never caught up. services of third-leading scorer Ed­They face must-win situations both fordham stretched its advantage ward Bona (hepatitis). the win -his 
The Notre Dame fencing team held its ou•n in the foil and sabre tomorrow at North Carolina State to seven, :S+2.., just before halftime second straight over the Irish ­compertitions, but lost a match to their arch-rivals from Wavne and Wednesday at n:d-hot Pitt with a and threatened to make it a rout. But boosted his team to 15·9 and also State by losing 8-1 in the epee bouts. Mattjohnson has an account . 1 " d d t·<Jur stra1·gt1t p<lt.nts h)· ·.tii-Am~r ·can
not-so-encouragmg -, roa recor ~ 1 lifted his hopes for post-season tournament action.
==b=e=k='=u=~=(=P=h=r=d=o=b~)='=L=a=m~-=·=P=e=t=n=~=~==================================)ohn~~nenili~thel~to
climb within :S"±-31 at intermission. "The key was our getting ahead in 
Epee decides 
But, unlike Saturday's South the ballgame." said Penders, in his Carolina victory. where Notre Dame l1fth year at the helm. "When we came out and took control of the went to the delay, and with our game at the outset ofthe second half, quickness, it was over. Their (full­
Irish fall to No. 1 Wayne State 
the Irish were lethargic as they left court) press defense didn't bother By MATTJOHNSON Performing especially well in the remain optimistic about the season the locker room. A 9·4 Ram spurt us too much. Our kids our getting .~ports Writer defeat were freshmen john Edwards gave fordham a 4.3-:S'; advantage better at it.
so far and for the remaining matches 
and jan Tivenius. Both posted three with 1.3:35 to go and, more impor­"Ifwe had fallen behind, though, I
on the schedule. 
"Well, we watched two of the top wins without a' loss in only the "We're still O.K.," said DeCicco af­tantly, gave the Rams a chance to go assure you it would have been a dif· 
teams in the nation fence tonight second loss of the year for the Irish. ter the loss. "There are not many into its dreaded four-corner delay ferent story." and the outcome could have gone "Tonight I just put it all together," offense -one they execute about as Everyone knew of Fordham's
teams in the country that can match 
either way," said head coach Mike said an enthusiastic Edwards. "I just well as anyone this side of Chapel David Maxwell, the Rams' leading
up with the likes of Notre Dame and DeCicco of the fencing match be­got psyched up and did it. It was the Wayne State." Hill. scorer and rebounder. going into tween Notre Dame and defending best day offencing I've had all year." And although his team was well­the game. Maxwell's 19 points and
This Saturday, the Irish travel to
national champion Wayne State last Tivenius was equally energetic in prepared for the stall, Phelps six rebounds did hurt, but equally
Chicago to fence the University of
night. "It was that close. his assesment of his performance. watched helplessly as Fordham easi­painful was the combined :SS points
Detroit, University of Chicago, Uni­
"Unfortunately, we came out on "I just wanted it so badly tonight. I ly outquicked his Irish for easy pumped in by Cooper and guard
versiy ofIllinois-Chicago and the Air
the short end." went against some very good fen­Force Academy. layups and several three-point plays. 
see UPSET page 11

Although coming up short on cers, but I wanted it too much to "We pracriced for three full days points, the Irish fenced perhaps as lose." well as they have all year in an emo­It was apparent that both squads 
WomenJ:S showdown tonight
tional 14-13 defeat to the No. 1 team wanted the victory badly, as almost in the nation. each of the 27 bouts went down to The Irish controlled two of the the wire. But Wayne State proved to 
Top-rated Techsters come to town 
three weapons, outscoring Wayne be too powerful in the end. State 5-4 in the sabre, and 7-2 in the The women also dropped a By MIKE RICCARDI "Our track record against ranked we are, and how far we are from epee. The foil proved to be the heartbreaker to Wayne State, losing Sports Writer teams is not impressive," admits DiS· where we want to be." 
decisive event, however, as Wayne 10-6 in an equally gruelling contest. tanislao. "But, at times, we've held The Techsters are a complete bal­
State sailed to an 8-1 victory. Despite the loss, the Irish ( 16-2) It may be hard to believe, but the our own against the best competi­lclub. No. 1 women's basketball team from tion in the country. We've just never Their inside force is junior center ~ouisiana Tech is not made up ofsu­been mature enough to stay with the janice Lawrence who averages 20 perwomen. opponent the entire 40 minutes. If points and nine rebounds a game. 
The Lady Techsters, who take on we do, and we use what we've Lawrence, if her game is on, will
leers face CCHA -stop 
Notre Dame at the ACC tonight learned from those experiences, the bring back memories for DiStanislao 
( 7:30 tipoff) are a group which, off outcome of this game will be of Alabama's Carol Smith, who the court, seem pretty much indis­determined by what my kids do, not shredded the Irish for 29 points,
team, seek playoffs 
tinguishable from most of the theirs." mostly from less than live feet. At 6­ByJANE HEALEY settled down and developed in the populace. Mary D. has been thinking of this 3, Lawrence has two inches on Irish Sports Writer last months. On the court, however, they make game as a definitive measuring stick center Mary Beth Schueth, whose 
"We're getting more balance out up the most dominant torce in col­for the Irish women. rebounding average is also nine per Bowling Green, the first place of our lines," Smith said. "Finally legiate basketball since the Wooden "It's quite an opportunity to play game. 
team in the CCHA and the t1fth­we've settled in with a forechecking era at UCLA. the No. 1 team in the country," she Power forward Debra Rodman ranked team in the country, invades pattern that we're: comfortable with. Louisiana Tech, 21-1, has lost but has been saying all week. "Friday the ACC tonight at 7:30 p.m. to It's working now too." two games in the last three seasons, night, we'll lind out just how good see TECHSTERS page 12 battle the Notre Dame hockey team. Another weakness that the Irish taking the last two national cham­
The last time the Irish faced the have since remedied was an inef­pionships home to Ruston. Falcons was in ·ohio in late Novem· fective power play. At the beginning And when L TU beats teams, it 
ber. The home team completely of the season, Smith had to com­does it with gusto. Fourth-ranked dominated the Irish in 12-2 and 12-3 pletely restructure the power play Cheyney State, No. 3 Texas, No. 8 thrashings. unit because of last year's heavy Tennessee, No.6 Old Dominion, No. "It was a dismal weekend, to say graduation losses. The inexperience 11 Cal State-Long Beach, and No. 15 the least," coa<:h Lefty Smith says. of the young unit showed. The UCLA all were beaten by 15 points "They handled us easily last time. power play percentage was only 18 or more. Only No. 2 USC has been We're still smartingfrom that perfor­percent at the end of November. It able to handle Tech, beating it early mance." has now risen to over 21 percent in the season at the dedication game Since the embarrassment, the success. of the Thomas Assembly Center in Irish have made some changes, and "Our power play has grown more Ruston. Still, Tee~. ~;;:! pay back USC are an improved hockey team. effective through game ex­with a win in southern California 
Four defensemen -Jpe Bowie, perience," said Smith. "They look two weeks ago. Bob Thebeau, Steve Ely and Sean more together and better prepared Notre Dame's record against Top Regan -were all out of action in now." 2ll teams is less than imposing. Ohio. But this weekend, all four are The Irish haw more than past The Irish have been unable to beat taking key roles in the Irish lineup. problems to tackle. They must also a rated opponent in five tries, and 
"One of the real keys to our deal with present predicaments are still reeling from a pair of dis­
success since then has been the such as senseless penalties and holes heartening losses to No. 12 Arizona return of Regan," said Smith. "Not in the defensive coverage. State and the UCLA women on the having him hurt not only our regular "The big key to our play is going West Coast. play, but our power play and shor­to be playing the body and not the It is probably too much to expect 
thanded situations. He solidifies all puck," said Smith. "We can't just Notre Dame to stay with Louisiana 
aspects ofour defense." take a shot at the puck and then skate Tech, let alone win. But Irish coach
• Offensively, after a lot of shuffling Mary DiStanislao refuses to discount 
see FALCONS page 11
around, the four Irish lines have the possibility ofan upset. 







