• • . An Tostal-page 8 

VOL XVII, NO. 136 tht: indt:pt:ndt:nt studt:nt nt:wspapt:r serving notre Jame and saint mary's MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1983 
Shultz visits Lebanon to aid negotiations 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The trip as secretary of state, was said by by Secretary of State George P. aides to doubt whether the in­Shultz to the Middle East reflects a gredients for success were there, judgment by the Reagan administra­and that his trip would therefore tion that agreement on a troop raise expectations that might not be withdrawal from Lebanon is the key met. to progress on an overall Middle East But last Monday's terrorist bom­peace. bing at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, 
The administration had been which left I 7 Americans among the 
reluctant to tie the two issues so dead, led the administration to con­
closely together because it might clude it had to demonstrate its com­
encourage Israel to stand pat in mitment to seeing a satisfactory 
Lebanon, knowing it could block outcome in Lebanon and a broader 
overall Middle East talks that could overall peace that addresses the 
threaten its control of the occupied needs of Palestinians in Israeli­
West Bank and Gaza Strip. occupied territories. 
But Arab leaders, such as Presi­The White House is gambling, dent Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and however, that sending Shultz will Jordan's King Hussein, have made bring concessions from Israel's clear to the administration that Prime Minister Menachem Begin Reagan's Middle East peace initiative and key Arab leaders that they were is now virtually dead without a prior not persuaded to make by lower­
U.S. Undersecretary of State Lawrence American staffers killed in the bomb blast last
agreement on a withdrawal ofIsraeli level officials. 
Eagleburger is accompanied by U.S. Ambassador week at the Embassy. President Reagan bas vowed
troops from Lebanon. In an interview published in yes­
to Lebanon Robert Dillon (right). Eagleburger to continue tofightforpeace in Lebanon, sending
Reagan decided Friday to send terday's editions ofTbe Washington 
arrived in Beirut Friday morning, leading a Secretary ofState George Shultz to the country. See 
Shultz to the region to make a final 
See SHULTZ, page 5 
delegation that will escort the bodies of 16 related story at left.
push for an accord for Israel to withdraw its 25,000 troops from Lebanon, after which he will try to get a withdrawal of Syrian and 
Purported Hitler diary 
Palestine Liberation Orgaization 
forces. 


Publication stirs debate over authenticity
Shultz left by airplane last evening 

from Andrews Air Force Base for LONDON (AP) -The publica-suggests that Europe's Jews "should diaries is one of the many fairy-tate scientists and handwriting experts. 
Cairo. He also will visit Lebanon and tion of excerpts purportedly from be sent to sea and the boats sunk." lies that we have known since the Another person who examined the 
Israel, and may engage in shuttle­Adolf Hitler's diaries has set off a Hitler's attempt to exterminate war," said Hitler's Luftwaffe adjutant material and judged it authentic was 
type diplomacy, if necessary, to get debate among historians who insist theJews led to the death of6 million Nicolas von Below, according to historian Hugh Trevor-Roper, the 
the final agreement. He might also the papers are authentic and experts in Nazi concentration camps during BildAm Sonntag. "We often sat un­man sent by British Prime Minister 
visit Syria. and former Hitler aides who believe World War II. til 3 or 4 at night and Hitler would Winston Churchill in 1945 to con­
The secretary was known to be it is one of history's most elaborate The West German magazine then go to bed. He had no more time firm the circumstances of the dic­reluctant to go on the trip, but was frauds. Stern, which originally acquired the 
tator's death. pressed into it by White House offi­The Sunday Times of London diaries along with hundreds ofother He told reporters yesterday that cials who not only want foreign published selections from the 60 documents and unpublished book MONDAY. t I there was always the "possibility troops out of Lebanon but who also diaries in which the Nazi dictator manuscripts purportedly by Hitler, that the diaries were forged," but want a much-needed foreign policy speaks with contempt of his is to publish excerpts ~oday. said their quantity and range means
--~'fm~FOC US

success for Reagan. propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels,, Two of Hitler's personal aides "it would have been a very difficult 
Shultz, who has not visited the ofSS commander Heinrich Himmler were quoted yesterday as saying the operation." 
Middle East during his nine months and ofother Third Reic..1 figures and bound notebooks -said to have to write." The Sunday Times said Stern 
been found in a plane wreck by a Another aide quoted by the paper, magazine's discovery of the diaries 
German army officer and hidden in Richard Schulze-Kossens, asked, was the culmination of an investiga­
his hayloft for 35 years -are fakes, "When could Hitler have written tion by 51-year-old Hamburg jour­
according to the Hamburg weekly these 60 diaries?" nalist Gerd Heinemann. He located 
Hifd Am ~onntag. The Sunday Times said the diaries 
See HITLER, page 3
"The discovery of Hitler's alleged had been authenticated by a team of 


The Observer/Scott Bower 
Latest in crackdown 




, Government arrests strategist 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -The contact with the 17,000 yard "Penal proceedings are under way Communist government yesterday workers who are his most avid fol­against Pinior in connection with his announced the arrest ofa key under­lowers. embezzlement of80 million zlotys," ground Solidarity strategist, the Little is known about Pinior, who PAP said. It did not say if he would be latest in a series of detentions ap­was treasurer of the Solidarity chap­charged with political crimes as parently aimed at undercutting the ter in Lower Silesia before the Dec. well. union's call for May Day protests. 13, 1981, declaration ofmartial law. A few days after meeting with 
Jozef Pinior, one of five fugitive A few days before the military Walesa, Pinior and the four other Solidarity leaders who met with for­crackdown, Pinior withdrew 80 mil­members of Solidarity's fugitive mer union chief Lech Walesa on lion zlotys ( $940,000 at official ex­"temporary coordinating commis­April 9-11, was taken into custody in change rates) from the union's sion" issued a call for protest his hometown of Wroclaw, accord­coffers and is believed to have spent marches to counter officially ing to a dispatch by the official the money in the underground cam­sponsored demonstrations on May Polish news agencyPAP. paign to restore Solidarity, once the I, the international workers' obser­
The report did not specify when only union irr the Soviet bloc free of vance that is a major holiday in the Pinior was arrested. The announce­Communist Party control. Soviet bloc. ment was made one day before Solidarity was suspended with the The other members of the Walesa was to return to his job as an martial law declaration and Solidarity commission, representing electrician at the Lenin Shipyard in outlawed last October. workers in major population cen­Gdansk, where he helped lead the Walesa, interrogated three times ters, are Zbigniew Bujak of Warsaw, August 1980 strikes that created after his clandestine meeting with Bogdan Lis of Gdansk, Wladyslaw Solidarity. the Solidarity underground, said Hardek of Krakw and Eugeniusz 
The 39-year-old labor leader said police questioned him about Pinior Szumiejko ofKatowice. the decision to give him his job back and the money, but that he refused No other members ofthe commis­was intended in part to help authori­to answer. sion are known to have been ar­
Kathy the Elephant gets an encouraging word from her owner ties keep track of him and thereby Reports of Pinior's arrest -also rested, although authorities in Dorothy Keller in preparati'on for the An Tostal elephant ride last curtail his contacts with the under­broadcast by Warsaw Radio -said recent weeks have announced the Saturday. The event took place in the parking lot behind the band ground. police found "anti-state" documents detention and arrest ofmore than 50 building. See story and photo display ofAn Tostal weekend on However, Walesa's readmission to and large sums of Polish and foreign members of Solidarity and affiliated pages 8 and9. the shipyard also puts him in direct money in his apartment hideout. organizations. 


ew s Brief§ 
Monday, April25, 1983 -page 2 

~~========*============================== 
by The Observer and The Assoaated Press 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Dance Theatre has announced the cast for its final production ofthe year,Homage a Isadora, directed and choreographed by Kathleen Quinlan Krichels. Kathleen Quinlan Krichels is a special guest artist visiting the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. The dancers include Angela Adam­
son, Karla Altiero, Paula Ballantine, Marlena Cardenas, Lisa Gabrish, Cathy McNally, Mary Beth O'Brien, Kimberly Race, Suzanne Saletta, Liz Zimmer, Kathleen Maccio, Stephen Blaha, Bob Costello, Jeff Choppin, Kevin Finney, Barney Grant, Joe Krumenacker, Doug Maihafer. In addition to her direction and choreography, Krichels will be performing in her production. Homage a Isadora will open April 29 at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium and continue April 30, May 1, 12 and 13. -The Observer 
Mark Burns, a freshman in Grace Hall, has won first prize -a portable stereo cassette player -in the An Tostal Giveaway, sponsored by the Notre Dame Competition Color Guard. Second prize, a $20 gift certificate to Musicland, was awarded to Pat Gus­man, and third prize, two records from Camelot Music, went to Kathy Scott. -The Obseroer 

Merton Miller, Leon Carroll Marshall distinguished service professor in the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business, will give a lecture entitled "TheJanuary Anomaly" tomor­row at 4:15 p.m. in the Memoria t I Library Auditorium. Miller, as­sociate editor of thejournal ofFinancial Economics and co-editor of thejournal of Business, holds degrees from Harvard and Johns Hopkins. He has been a faculty member of the University ofChicago since 1961, serving also as a visiting professor at the Catholic univer­sities of Louvain and Mons in Belgium. He has written nearly 40 articles in a variety of professsional journals and several books. 
The Observer 
Thirteen-month-old Brandon Hall, steadily improving from his second liver transplant, was moving around in his crib and responding to his name yesterday, hospital officials said. "He had a good night, a very restful night and he continues to im­prove with no complications," said Scott Kent, spokesman for Le Bonheur Children's Medical Center in Memphis, Tennessee. The child's vital signs were stable and nurses in the intensive care unit were encouraged by his activity and responsiveness, Kent said. "He's been alert and active ...kicking his legs, moving his arms and hold­ing on to his mom's hand," Kent said. Doctors said Brandon's lung infection was much improved and that antibiotics prescribed to fight the complication were being withdrawn. Brandon. underwent his second liver transplant in 11 days in a nine-hour operation early Friday after his first transplanted liver began to fail because of cir­culatory problems. Hospital officials say he is the youngest patient to survive two liver transplants. The boy was born with biliary atresia, in which his liver lacked bile ducts connecting it to his intestines. Without the ducts, the liver cannot adequately filter the blood of toxic poisons and the organ eventually becomes susceptible to in­fection. -AP 
An 81-year-old woman who survived a six-day 
mountain ordeal that killed her husband was in satisfactory condi­
tion after parts ofher frostbitten feet were amputated, a relative said 
yesterday. Shauna Siebers said her grandmother, Alice Nelson Can­
non, was in stable condition and resting comfortably at LDS Hospital 
here following the surgery Saturday. Siebers said surgeons removed 
the toes from one of Cannon's feet and about half of the other foot. 
Cannon will not be able to attend today's funeral for her husband, 
John Bennion Cannon, 85, Siebers said. The Cannons, of Salt Lake 
City, were driving to St. George in extreme southwestern Utah when 
they decided to take a side trip through the Dixie National Forest. 
They became stranded April 15 when their car became mired on a 
muddy road in isolated Pine Valley. -AP 
FOnDer "CHiPS"aCtOr Larry Wilcox, was in great pain yesterday after being hurt in a bike race accident and doctors had not determined the extent of his injuries, his publicist said. The 34-year-old actor was listed in satisfactory and stable condition at Foothill Presbyterian Hospital in Glendora, nursing supervisor Myrtle Smith said. Doctors were conducting tests to determine the nature of possible internal injuries Wilcox suffered when he fell on his small motocross bicycle in a celebrity bicycle race Saturday, said publicist Ian Vaughan. "They still haven't given me the exact details of their findings," Vaughan said after talking to the hospital. He said Wilcox was "in a lot of pain," but added, "He seemed in reasonable spirits." Wilcox crahed his bike onto the track in Azusa, 20 miles east ofdowntown Los Angeles, while jumping it from a ramp about four to six feet high, when the front wheel landed improperly, Vaughan said. He was among several celebrities participating in the race to benefit Child Fund USA, a national group working for treatment and prevention of child abuse. Wilcox portrayed Officer Jon Baker for five years on NBC's "CHiPs" until 1982. -AP 

Spring at last? Sunny today with seasonal highs in the mid 60s. Fair and much warmer tonight and tomorrow. Low Monday night in the mid 40s. High tomorrow in the mid and upper 70s. -AP 

Dirty Laundry 
The equalization of the male-female ratio and the ar­rangement of coed dorms on campus are two rather heatedly discussed sex-oriented issues at Notre Dame. The most recent addition to this list is the sex and age discrimation lawsuit filed by faculty member Nancy D'Antuono. In debating these topics, one even more fundamental to the equality of men and women here is being ignored. 
In each women's dormitory are found more than a few washing machines and dryers. None can be found in any men's residence hall. A male student instead pays S75 per year to have his clothes laundered for him. There is an additional fee for dirty clothes above and beyond the limit. If he so chooses, a man may do his own wash in assigned machines in Badin Hall, but none of the 575 fee is refunded. 
Late in the 20th century, despite the near passage of the Equal Rights Amendment and other such valiant at­tempts at recognizing equality between the sexes, 

Notre Dame remains lost It is relieving to know that somewhere in America's this problem is now receiv­heartla.pd, stranded in the ing some serious attention. Dark Ages. Part of the platform of stu­
The question of laundry dent body presiden and vice may seem a trivial mattter, president Brian Callaghan and 575 is not an exorbitant and Peggy Prevoznik called fee, but Notre Dame's for locating some washing laundry policy expresses a machines on North Quad for philosophy of the Ad­men. Last week Callaghan ministration not conducive looked into the basement of to equal and quality educa­the North Dining Hall as a tion and living. First of all, possibility. Because of the this policy either assumes necessity of the restrooms that men are not capable of there this is not feasible. As washing their own clothes, an alternative, perhaps men or that they should not have could use the laundry to bother. Every male with facilities in certain women's any human dignity should dorms during specified be highly offended at the ac­hours. Callaghan foresaw 

cusation that he cannot complete such a simple domestic task as laundry. The idea that men should not have to bother with laundry adds an air ofthe double standard and female inferiority 
to coeducation. 
The ~cond problem lies in the existence of a man­datory fee charged on~y to men. In effect then, room and board is higher for men than women. True, women may or may not make up for this with the quarters and· dimes they drop into the machines each week. However, men sometimes do their own laundry too for fear of damage to their clothes, and on occasion they must pay more money to the laundry service because their week's wash totals more than "the extent of nor­mal requirements," as quoted in the University Bulletin ofInformation. 
Discrimination seems to be of the reverse nature in this instance. Men have to pay for the service, whether they use it or not. Women, on the other hand, are of­fered the option to send their dirty clothes to the 
~The_Ohser:ver_ 
Design Editor ...................................).1'.-A.A. 
Design Assistant .................................... Pete 
Typesetters ........................................... Bruce, B'California here I come'WD 
ByYa'll News Editors ...................................... Dianne Copy Editor.............................................. Tim Sports Copy Editor............................... Mike Editorials LaJ•out ................................ l.ihby Features Lt~vout ........................ .. .... Sarah, 
Mary NO D<1y Editor....................................... Mike Ad Design ................................................... _..,? 
Pbotogrt~pber ........................................Scott 
Guest Appet~rances ........... l'ar Three Pies, Thank; to jcb for a funnier year. 
Thank' to Dennis. 

A RARE COLLECTION OF UNREI EASED OUT-TAKES
l'etc's-Amy, he good. Jlm's·thanks Andrea and Teresa. 

FROM FAMOUS T.V.SHOWS 
the hionde dancer, Rohin, Bridgette, Maria. 

Plus: "Bambi meets Godzilla," "Hardware Wars," 
'I uM:d to be disgusted, now I try to be 
amused." 


three rare Monty Python surprises, and much more. 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 IS Pub!1shed Munday through Fr~day ,.,.~PI dur~ng exa'11 and vacat1on peflvd; The Observer IS published by lhe ~ludenls of Notre Da'T1e and 



MAIN ENGINEERING BUILDING AUD. 
Sa1n1 Marys College Subscr~pt1ons 

Monday, April25 
ndy be pure hasea for S30 per year 
•S15 per se·nester1 by wr1t1ng The Ob­

7:00 & 9:00PM 
server, P lJ Bux 0 Noire Dame In 

• specia/15 min. rare Beatie film preview
ri1ana 46556 The Observer 15 a memher of the 

Limited good seating· Come early-$3.00 w/ NO I.D.· $4.00 general Assuuated Press All reproductiOn r~ghts are reserved, 

campus laundry service for the same price as men. Un­fortunately, this is not a well known fact. 
It appears that University policy is not solely to blame for the present situation. Equality suffers at the hands of reality as well. The handful of machines in Badin is not enough to accomodate the men of Notre Dame. This is at least one somewhat practical reason why men must pay for a laundry service. One question surfaces: why then are the great majority of machines in women's dorms, leaving only the men to pay the S75 burden? 
problems with this also, specifically in who uses what dorm's machines when. At least concern is being shown and rectification being sought. 
The answer may be staring us in the face. Why can't machines be placed in men's dorms just as they have been in women's? Does this solution seem too simple? The laundry service could then be an option for men as it is for women. There would be an initial expense, but a small price to pay for a school ofequals. 
This may seem like far too many words wasted on dirty laundry; however, a double standard concerning University laundry policy is one more visible sign that Notre Dame is still a men's school. Must it always remain that only "her loyalsons go marching onward to victory?" 
The views expressed by the author are not neces­sari~J' those ofthe editorial board. 


The Observer Monday, April25, 1983-page 3 



Congressmen to visit Nicaragua, vote on aid package tomorrow 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -Six House Congress on Wednesday to repeat The tour was arranged by CIA members flew yesterday to Central his warnings that Nicaragua and director William Casey in an effort America as the Reagan administra­Cuba, along with the leftists they to show the committee that the tion tried to head off growing con­support in El Salvador, threaten the agency is not violating a 1982 law gressional oppostuon to its stability ofthe region. forbidding the use of U.S. money for anti-Marxist campaign in the war­The House Appropriations sub­the purpose of overthrowing torn region. committee on foreign affairs is Nicaragua's government, said Rep. 
Jeane ). Kirkpatrick, ambassador scheduled to vote a day earlier on Norman Mineta, D-Calif., one of to the United Nations, expressed the administration's request for ad­those making the trip. confidence that Congress would not ditional military aid for El Salvador. "The Reagan administration is rebuff President Reagan's request The panel's chairman, Rep. obeying the law and we will obey for an added S60 million in military Clarence Long, D-Md., flew Sunday the law," Kirkpatrick said. aid for El Salvador or curtail to El Salvador for a two-day visit She said Reagan has maintained reported CIA activities against the before the vote. The House Foreign the same 3-to-1 ratio of economic leftist government in neighboring Affairs Committee voted I9-6 last and military aid used by previous ad­Nicaragua. week against Reagan's request. ministrations, while the Soviet Uni­
"What we hope is that Congress Also yesterday, five members of on has shipped thousands o(tons of will share the responsibility for find­the House Intelligence Committee heavy weapons to the region. ing a constructive solution," departed for a CIA-guided tour of El Kirkpatrick said on ABC's "This Salvador and Honduras, where the Week With David Brinkley" show. "I U.S. intelligence agency is reported think Congress will, frankly." to be supplying and training guerril­
Reagan is scheduled to make his las opposed to Nicaragua's Marxist 
• • • Hitler 

first foreign policy address to government. 
continuedfrom page 1 
the former German officer who had

Russia claims US aide 
hidden the material after finding it in a plane. The plane is said to have taken Hitler's papers out ofBerlin on


expelled for spying 
April 21, I945, 10 days before Hit­

ler's suicide, as the Soviet armyMOSCOW (AP) -The Com­Without gtvmg any date for the 
closed in ori the German capital.

munist Party newspaperPravda said reported expulsion, Pravda said

The Observer/Scott Bower A 1956 diary by Gen. Hans Baur,yesterday that .a U.S. diplomat had "Vice Consul D. Shorer" was seized 
Hitler's personal pilot, records that

BradMcCurrie (on roof) andRobert Wack (on ground) failed at been expelled from Leningrad for by KGB secret police while retriev­
when told of the crash, Hitler ex­

their attempt to get a better view ofBookstore Basketball semi­spying, but U.S. officials said there ing a "magnetic container" of in­
claimed, "In that plane were all my

finals last Friday. Officer Suee ofNotre Dame Security made the has not been an expulsion of an formation planted by a Soviet 
private archives, what I had in·

studentsget offthe bookstore roof See the sports section for a roun­American posted in Leningrad for double agent. 
tended as a testimony for posterity.

dup ofthe world's largest basketball tournament. "several years." 
A spokesman at the U.S. Embassy It is a catastrophe!" in Moscow said yesterday, "The West German historian Werner case, if it occurred at all, is out ofthe Maser said Hitler was plagued by past and not anything recent. It nerve ailments toward the end ofhis didn't happen in the last two years life, and that his right arm was badly 
and no one recalls anything like it in damaged by the bomb that nearly recent years." killed him in july 1944. "He was hardly in the !>OSition to 



UMOC: 'Gorgar, wins again 
U.S. State Department spokes­
For the third consecutive year, 115 David K.los 30 Pete Tiernan 10 Cindy Walter -I Henry Quinuis write something down with his own 
woman Sue Pinman said in Washing·Mike "Gorgar" Gurdak took the title 114 Yak man Donjaksa 27 Mike "A team" Power I 0 Mick Popovich 4 Collern Kenney hand," Maser said. "He had to prop
ton, "There has been no expulsion
ofUgly Man on Campus in this year's 112 Steve Pearsall 27 Monica Fatum I 0 Nancy Lynch 4 Matias O'Donnell up the underarm and hold the right
from Leningrad in the last several 
An Tostal festivities. The unofficial 111 Mark Schippits 26 Mark Yusko 10 kevin McCarter 4 Greg Coury hand with the left to prevent ex­
years."
count of donations was Sl8I4.23, 110 Pat Brown 25joc Haling 10 Wilber McGarrity 4" Boboo Glrason cessive trembling." 
the money going to Sr. Marita's Day llO"Uz" 2~ Prof. Nancy Caner I 0 Joe Musumeci 3 Richard Stanage 
Care Center. The list of names and 10~ Bernie Pclligrino 25 Scott "Sweat" Cade I 0 Steve Jegier 3 George Vice 
vote totals are as follows: 100joy Casacio 25 Steve Piersa 1 0 Mike Krisko 3 Russ Rieth 
II'Ff'r-:.:Z~f~,---·-----,
100 Scon Tomasik 25 Jay Schwartz 10 Kenneth M. Fisher 3 Greg Lush 
88926 Mike "Gorgar" Gurdak I00 Jim Tyler 25 Paul Sherman 10 Mike D'Aiessandro 3 Keith Vcsilik 
i ass t manay€Rs IBaRt€nb€Rs 1 booRni€n
1520 I Larry Nardollilo 100 Dc~k Weihs 25 !\lei Tardr 10 Dave"Nicnoid" Animan 2Joe Malvczzi 
IS170 Beth Hackert 100 Carlton Wrst 25 jim Moriarity 10john Dooling 2 Boy George 
I Apply Wed., April 27th 5:00
7167 john Connen;.).D. & CPA I 00 Pat McCormick 25 MoKellr I 0 Julic Pierson 2 Kevin Luthring.'!ihau~n 
.l..llllllllllllllllllllllftiiiHIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII..IIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIII 
7135 Mark Michuda IOOJar 2S Mike Latz 10 Robin Israel 2Jim Lynch 
6.:lj()j Tim Roemer I00 Mark Lynch 2S Dave Faicinelli I 0 Bob Infinger Z High KaJbian 
~IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllllllllllllllllt...II......HHIIHHIIIIIIIII; 
5165 Bob ""Stinky"" Brue< I 00 David Goulet 25 Bob Bonnoyer 9 Pat "The Whimp" Reuvers 2 Don Wisniewski 
•i

Organizational meeting i
3767Charlcs Dyer I 00 Mike "Fany" larkin 25 Mary Beth Christie 9 Brother Rodney 2 Dan "Bitf' Kelly 
3594 Doug Hon~ywdi"Th~ Slug" I 00jo~ Dolan 25 Joe Cristofaro 9 Sreve Maher 2 Mike Duggan 
!


For Next Year's 
2390jelf""Lav:~ bead"" Helm 100 Patrick Melnick 25 Mark Malloy H Ralph Caroline 2 Blaise Harding 
2180 Torn Ryder -"Rom Tydcr" 100 Mary Ouvic 2'> Brian Broucek 8 Beth Flynn 2 Fr. Steve Gibson 
1774 Fa1her "lronman" Zang 100 Betsy Graham 25 Kary Schulte 7 Ed "P head" Burley 2 Bob lsom 
1685 Eddie White Ill. Asst. SID 9., Father Mario Pedi 25 Ronald McDonald 7Ronjames l jeffJeffers 
!ND/SffiCYoung Democtnts 
141 I john Sharkey H~ Bob Vclcich "The Prine• 2~ Mike Doming 7 Katy May Jones I Hong K.C. 
I 383 jvhn C. Kllirio 85 Ann Page 2~ ChriS Cain 7Steve Hill I Mike Thompson : 
1273 Sourh Bend Dogpound AKA Keenan Hall 115)eft"Pagc l'S Rons "Spos" Naytula ., Gene C•.>nstanza tjoe Wehnrr 

I monday, April 25
1270· Hc~er Hcrrun1 g-; Mike Shriver 25Carol Ruw 6 Biii"Bubblc-s" Ba.'tlcdo 1 Kevin Stone 
l 

1004 Kun McNeil tJ2 Homer Charles 25Tomjar 6 Dr. Herro I Father Noone 
591 KeYin Mickey "'!!John Wallace 2'S Ed McArec 6 Ga~· Ray WiSI I Tina "E.T." Pcrs.~n 
H4 Torn Marshclcl< 69 Ellen O"Brien H Phil and non Shea 6 Eric ~an inez 1 And}· Keusal 


l"?.:..~~~...~~!.~.~~!.!-~~~~~~-i 


55• Biii""Thundcnhighs"" Lntl<ian 69 Oan Holmes 23 Donald Sinclair 'S Fnnk Burne: I Mik~ Tuc:cio ~Bosco h~U.G." Carnsco 69 Mary Dohcn)· 2I PatCj Kozlovsk,· ~ heber Mo ''The Convict" Ca rJamie EnJirs '140 (iuy Buman 69 Room 270 Dillon 20 Dign Phclpo 'S Mike Synder 1 Tim Fole-y -100 l':tltlltlu~r 66 Kevin Launncc 20 !lob Kolccki ~ Bud Ganland I GKB ~V<ro 
Corby's 

· :\91John Uroni ~~ Moonman 20Mari<Cbud> 'S Mariarm Crapanzano ,... : ..~an Oonahc'r ~94 Tonomy Tancoco ~?lblpjaftilcil 20 Tom !\llcKrnna 5 Cbris Eckri<:h .; I Mi~ Whik 
fllonday Night
36~ On~ ""5c:tnorann.. McMahon 56 Dan BlOC~· 19 Marr LyM {iarps 'Jd""Gorp,-"" Ham. !jack Ham""'l ''16M-Burns SOI.cnBidMi I~ Pllil Cann ' Matthew ··fany"" Mc(;n&b I frank Di'll'><a.• 

Sp.clal

.H6 i.,.,. ··r...wy 114....,-o·­1>8PatSuiH.., 16Modl-'JimO"LaUJhlia -l-Davc. Wiaf'icwlk; ...).: ... 
~t't.I«Jtonpovi 'OCraitllalr n Joe Trnnor 5 o..-a Ca~lor t Steve Scbmill .-JiMS.hwt• \0 Danny Harrisen ISOan""lloonar.. ltnpn .~··Jim;•·w,·bonlli (, _ITiraJao:ol,. 
·> _2?3........y"liJTuu""ll«k~r 'IIIKamodal>np>n l \ K.athlftn Hun1~r 
2~Tomf.21~1t. ·}!}··.,. ~ Sfl M'"'•laJIIiftZ ISBill­
l•HxkZilo ~ lobc-n Fabian I'Jimrux 
241 Mike Nichols SONa~·Orr I 5 jeff Hen~· 
2~5 Jim M. Bruwn ... ~ (il~nn Hanzlick !SOan Hom 
217 E. K~vin ROM" 42 ~bbic Ra~hl 1'S Man Revord 
200 Grra T01h • 2 SJ-kr S.hcidher 14 Palrick O"Lorch 
200 james Nrison P:lmodon -t I Bob (iorman'5 Mustache-I:\ C:huckln FklchunP"r 
1'.16 aobbic Sollco< -tO Anhurjackman 1.:\ Sie-ve Bad}·na 
IIIII Tim Rcill• .iK Billy Mile hell 13 Ed Winmcr 
1;oJim "Snalu:·· Piscanrlli :\~Mike.-Wilkin." 1.\ Bi& lklly Oe Toy 
161 Crai& Funai .n \tark \toots 12 .. Hoaman Taylor" 
I-t:\ Arm;mdo Bymr .i-t Muk Sc:hakr 12 (io.S. Gndy 
l.PJim\ll"all .-\2 Carl F. Rushon i2 .\1is."y ~urph~· 
I ;H .J..ynn Rukavina :\2 Earl Rix II France~ 
1.\2 Pauick ''Hap·· Maloney :\1 Phil Gilmore 11 Pat Sain 
120 Bigger. Bcnrr. Strongrr :\(l john Krappman I 0 ~ic.:heal Snyder. Esquire 
11"" Charles Van Ravcnswaay Ill .-\0 Chri.-. Lynch 10 Keith Caugtnan 
The Observer has named Suzanne La Croi-x, a soph­omore from Brighton, Mich., Production Manager. La Croix , currently an Assistant Systems 
Manager, has worked as a Design Editor and a Production Assistant.-Tbe Observer 

1 
~ 
l• 
t• 
' 
-. 




La~•sNight

8-\3 

"mix Drink Special'' 2FORll 
*********S€~v€0 1n P~€€********** CO~sy's COmm€mo~atJV€ 4lass€s 
----------------------------~----~---------~------~­
The Observer 

The Ob~rver/Scotr Bower 

Studentfiremunjack Bland takes advantage of a weekend to escape work for most students, the the sunny spring weather lastFriday as he washes fire department used the time to work on a little a Notre Damefire engine. AlthoughAn Tostal was spring cleaning. 





Abiogenesis
Dance Collective 
The Abiogenesis Dance Collective 
Celebrates NATIONAL DANCE WEEK April24 · 30 Love a dancer!. 
Performance:· 5PM Wednesday, April27 Architecture Building Steps 

The 

UNIVERSI1Y OF ST. LUCIA SCHOOL OF MEDICINE invites you to participate in AGREAT ADVENTURE IN MEDICAL EDUCATION 
Chartered by the government ofSt Lucia. and in iiS50Ciation with Victoria Hosprtal, the largest medical healltl care facility on St. Lucia wherethe University is centered.the School ofMedicine hasestablished aunique program,to commence in September 1983 
11tE PROGRAM 

• 
athirty four month trimester program with instruction iQ EngliSh leading to the Doctor ofMedicine Degree 

• 
utilizes an interdisciplinary clinically correlated approach, fOCUSing on organ systems . . . . 

• 
integrates from the very outset of the medical school expenence traditional academiC medicine with active patient care responsibilibes 

• 
includes participation in comprehensive health care of members of the St. Lucian commumty 

• 
utilizes state of the art educational media and communocation resources SUCh as Computer Assisted Instruction 

• 
includes guaranteed superviSed clerkShips for all qualified stuclents 


• provides supportive programs and services for spouses and school age children 
ntE FACULTY 

• 
skilled ana effective international educators 

• 
qualified M.D:S or clinically oriented PllD:S (or equivalent) dediCated to practical patient care 


• personable and enthusiastiC professionals committed to working in a team env1ronment 
FACILI11ES 

• the beautiful Caribbean lslar\d paradise of St Luc1a. a stable democratic government and an Independent member of the British Commonwealth 
• luxurious dOrmitory facilities Qualified and motivated students interested in taking the first step toward a rewarding experience in 21st century medical edJcation Should contact by ma11 or phone: Educators lnternatJonal Inc. official Umted States Representatives of The Unoversoty of St. Luc1a School of Medicine The lincoln Building 60 East 42 Street Suite 2201 New York Cit}! N.Y. 10017 attention: Dr. Isaac Kairey 
Dean of Admissions Telephone: 212-490·0130-0159.()324 

---------~ ---------~-----­
Monday, April25, 1983-page 4 
Bostonians protest animal use in research 
A woman paced in a yellow metal cage amidst 5,000 demonstrators carrying stuffed monkey dolls in Boston yesterday while in Madison, Wis., protesters marched in a seven· block-long snake in efforts to save animals they say are abused by medi· cal researchers. 
The animal activists' "worldwide" rally, another chapter in the ongoing debate over the ethics of animal re~earch, included demonstrations at federally funded primate research 
centers  in  California and  Georgia  
and  several  planned  in  foreign  
countries.  

"Up to now we have been patient," Dr. Richard Morgan, the na­tional coordinator of Mobilization for Animals, told the banner-waving crowd in Boston, which was forced off the Common into a dry ballroom at a hotel because ofa rainstorm. 
"We no longer will b .e patient. There is no time for patience while animals are dying. We must demand the cruelty will end," he said. 
Animal researchers have responded that the accusations of cruelty are "absolutely untrue" and "patently absurd." 
Some Boston demonstrators munching "veggie hot dogs" that sold for S I. 50 and others carrying signs reading "Animal Liberation" and "Research Labs are Unhealthy for Primates" jumped and cheered. Marion Bienes of Zaandam, Nether­lands, paced in the cage in which she had imprisoned herself because "I want to help the monkeys." 
"It has been said that we are 
seeking to prevent research benefit­
ting mankind," said John A. Hoyt. 
president of the Humane Society of 
the United States, in the keynote 
speech. 
"It has been said t that we are more concerned for the welfare ofanimals than for the welfare ofhumans. It ha..o; been said we are intent on halting all research in any way utilizing animals. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
"We are here to protest for better research. We seek the establishment of an immediate policy, which guarantees that all animals in primate centers will receive anes­thesia and analgesics in pre­operative, experimental and post-operative situations." 
Other of the coalition's demands include the naming of Mobilization­designated representatives to primate research center policy boards, the closing of two primate centers, and the use of animals in research only when absolutely necessary. 
Dr. Frederick King, director of Yerkes Primate Research Center at Emory University in Atlanta, said, "The charges they publish are un­founded and untrue. The care we provide for the animals is for the good interest of the animals. We protect them against suffering and mistreatment." 


Number of prisoners grows at record pace 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The num­ber of prison inmates in the United States grew by a record 42,915 in 1982 to reach an all-time high of 412,303, the Justice Department 
said yesterday. 
Spurred by tougher sentencing and more restricted parole laws, the increase was the largest in absolute numbers since counting began in 
1925. 
It resulted in an I 1.6 percent rise, second only to the 12.2 percent surge in 1981, said the department's Bureau ofJustice Statistics. 
The number of federal inmates reached 29,673 by the end of 1982, up 5. 5 percent, a slower rate of in­crease than the year before when the number rose 15.5 percent. State prisons held 382,630 inmates at year's end, up 12.1 percent. 
With federal prisons nearly 24 percent over capacity, the Reagan administration is seeking S94 mil· lion from Congress -the largest single-year financing request for new prisons ever. Over a three-year period, the federal government hopes to add 3,320 new prison beds. 
Most states also have begun prison construction programs, but theJustice Department said facilities opened in 1982 absorbed only part of the year's increase in inmates. 
Citing the swelling tide of new prisoners, Attorney General William French Smith said last month he is studying ways to punish non-violent criminals without sending them to prison. He said the 510,000 a year required lO maintain a criminal in prison is too much to pay in such cases. Instead, federal officials are looking at alternate penalties, such as restitution to victims and com­munity service. 
At the state level, inmates have been housed two and three to a cell or in tents, sheds and military stockades. Still, 31 states are under court order to reduce overcrowding and nine others are fighting court battles over the issue. 

SENIOR TRIP REUNION 
TONIGHT 
SENIOR BAR-9:30 Pffi Specials on Food and Drinks Remember to bring your invitation! 

Mar11n Scorcese. USA. color. 1'2 m1n Man•n Scorcese·s f~rsl fealure c.asls Harvey Ke•lel and Roberl De N~ro 1n New York's L11t1e flaly 1n an expros1ve m1xture of lhe Malia. lhe Church and repressed v1o1ence One of lhe most 1mpor1an1 ana sem1na1 films ol lhe t 970s 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission· 
,.... ---·1r~u ~ lltl31ti lr.......;;;..$...,z......,o....o , 

The Observer Monday, April25, 1983-page 5 

takes his turn bashing the 1965 Ford in front of Walsh Hall. 
Recall vote 

S.F. mayor expected to survive 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Most supporters of a campaign to recall Mayor Dianne Feinstein are admit­ting failure even before election day, conceding their coalition of fringe groups could not stir a serious chal­lenge. 
Tomorrow's special recall elec­tion was brought about when the White Panthers, a radical group formed during the I960s, got enough signatures on a petition to challenge the 49-year-old mayor. 
The Panthers said they were upset with Feinstein's support for a hand­gun bm in the city. They attracted support from the Stonewall Gay Democratic Club, tenants rights groups and a preservationist society. 
It apparently won't be enough. Tearful in January when the peti­tions were certified, the mayor now 
says her own polls show as much as 75 percent of San Francisco voters plan to reject the recall in the first such vote here in 37 years. Both major local newspapers said other polls produced similar findings. 
Feinstein has had nearly 2,000 volunteers working for her, a S4SO,OOO war chest underwritten mostly by corporate contributions, and a campaign whose pillar is a "vote-by-mail" effort. 
The proposed handgun ban that sparked the recall drive was ruled unconstitutional before it could become law. 
A Democrat, her campaign against recall has won support from the Republican County Central Com­mittee and the Concerned Republicans fur Individual Rights. Campaigners also mailed absentee ballot applications to every regis­tered Republican in the city. 
San Francisco Registrar of Voters Jay Patterson said absentee ballots co·uld amount to a remarkable 40 percent ofall ballots cast. 
Two legal challenges by the White Panthers against the campaign for absentee ballots were thrown out of court. 
Dave Brigode, head of the pro­recall Citizens for a New Mayor, said, "She's going to win big, sizably ... people are voting in this election on 
whether they think the recall itselfis fair. Acting as a jury, they're deciding whether they think Dianne Feinstein has committed a criminal act." 
Feinstein has been mayor for a little over four years. 

According to analysis 


Reagan~ taxes higher without cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan's 1982 income taxes would have been S91,619 higher than they were if not for the tax cuts he and Congress have approved the past two years, according to a published analysis. 
If the tax laws had not been changed, the president and Mrs. Reagan would have paid 5384,235 in taxes on a 1982 income of S74I,253 instead of the 5292,6I6 they actually paid, The Washington 
Post said in yesterday's editions. 
The Post hired a McLean, Va., cer­tified public accountant to calculate the Reagan's taxes using both a I982 tax form and the form for I980, the last in use before the tax changes he pushed through Congress in 1981 took effect. 
Not all ofthe savings were caused by Reagan's proposals, according to the analysis. The president's tax bill would have been higher if Congress had gone along with his plan to reduce the maximum tax on un­earned or investment income from 



Soviets unsuccessful infreeze manipulation 
NEW YORK (AP)-Soviet intel­ligence agents have tried and failed to dominate and manipulate the nuclear weapons freeze movement in the United States, FBI director William Webster said yesterday. 
"We see no indication that Soviet measures have resulted in gaining control over the operational aspects of the mainline organizations within the nuclear freeze movement," Webster said on CBS News' "Face the Nation." 
"The overall freeze effort does not seem to us to have been domina(ed by (Soviet intelligence) or success­fully manipulated," said Webster. 
"That is not to say they have not been trying diligently ...including use of funds, to have an impact on the movement," he added. 
"It coincides with their foreign policy to do so," he said of the Soviets. 
Webster also said that between 30 and 40 percent of the 3,000 diplomts which the Soviet Union and its allies have stationed in the United States are or have been in­volved in espionage. 
"That's a large number for us to keep track of," he said, adding that the FBI is seeking more funds to in­crease its surveillance efforts. 
Asked what kind of information the spies are after, he said, "Military secrets, military strategy, political strategy. The area we see a heavier concentration is in high technology, particularly laser technology, com­puters. 
"There's a broad effort not only to steal the secrets but to obtain samples ofth.:: products." 
70 percent to 50 percent over a 
three-year period. 
Instead, Congress made the cut all 
at once in I98I with Reagan signing 
the legislation. Unearned or invest­
ment income includes dividends, in­
terest or capital gains from the sale 
of real estate or other assets. 
The largest single source of 
income for the Reagans last year was 
a S256,978 capital gain from the sale 
of their home in Los Angeles for 
S 1,000,1 00, which was taxed at the 
50 percent rate. 

The analysis said the Reagans saved another SS,OOO in taxes as a result of Congress increasing from · $100,000 to $125,000 the maxi­mum tax-free gain allowed on the sale of a principal residence by 
people over age 55. 
Kim Hoggard, a White House 
spokeswoman, said the White House 
had no comment on the analysis. 
• • • Shultz 
continuedfrom page 1 

Post, Shultz was quoted as saying Arab leaders may now be regretting Hussein's refusal to negotiate with Israel along the lines proposed by Reagan last September. 
"It does seem to me that there's a certain shock that has take hold, as I read the cables from the various Arab capitals, in which people are saying to themselves, 'Are we really going to pass this up?' Maybe we can't afford to do that. 

Caterpillar Tractor workers end strike 
PEORIA, Ill. (AP) -Caterpillar 
Tractor Co. workers will someday 
see their record six-month strike as 
"one of the most foolish things that 
ever happened," the mayor said after 
approval ofa wage-freeze agreement 
that reopened the company's plants 
yesterday. 
For Peoria, a central Illinois river city where one in five paychecks had come from the heavy-equipment maker, the end of the 205-day strike means a boost to morale and to the economy. 
More than I2,000 United Auto Workers union members were to return to work at Caterpillar plants between II p.m. and II:30 p.m. yes­terday, and about 8,000 more were to begin work today. 
"The day will come when people look back and see the strike as one of the most foolish things that ever happened," Peoria Mayor Richard Carver said Saturday. The strike against the Peoria-based manufac­turer was the UAW's longest against a major company. 
Caterpillar workers drew S65 strike pay weekly for 29 1/2 weeks, a period that otherwise would have brought a typical Caterpillar assembly-line employee between n 3,000 and sI8,000. 
"I think the vote (to accept the three-and-a-half-year contract) is a reflection of the fact that they are, in fact, down to their last penny and need to get back to work," Jim O'Connor, president of UAW local 974 in Peoria, said Friday. His local is the largest of I 0 UAW locals at Caterpillar plants in Colorado, Il­linois, Iowa, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Tennessee. 
"We've got a lot of work to do," Caterpillar spokesman Doug Crew said Saturday. "We are pleased that the agreement has been ratified. We believe that everyone will put the strike beliind them and get back to 
!:msiness." 
Caterpillar said as many as 3,000 
non-union office workers laid off 
during the strike also will report for 
work today. Workers at ~on-UAW 
plants in Joliet, Ill., and Milwaukee 
will be called back to work as they 
are needed, starting in the next few 
weeks. 
There were 20,400 UAW mem­
bers working at Caterpillar at the 
time of the strike and 15,000 more 
on indefinite layoff. Crew denied 
reports that another big layoff is im­
minent, saying only, "We have said 
all along that any layoff depends on 
economic conditions." 
In announcing the I0,703 to 
5,I44 vote for ratification 
nationwide Saturday, UAW interna­
tional Vice President Stephen P. 
Yokich said the struggle by union 
members "prevented Caterpillar 
from taking away the scores ofgains 
the union has made over the past 34 
years." 
The proposal had been rejected 
by the union's bargaining commit­
•tee. 
Caterpitlar had sought cost­containment throughout negotiations which began in Sep­tember in Bridgeton, Mo. The com­pany lost S180 million last year, its first time in the red since the Depression. 
The new pact contained a wage freeze, reduction in bonus time paid for perfect attendance, and a profit­sharing plan and employee stock ownership option. 
Caterpillar workers make more than S 19 per hour. Although the new contract freezes wages, there will be pay increases through quar­terly cost-of-living allowances. The union also has its first proiot-sharing plan at Caterpillar. 

fficGann fot ffiayot oteffiay3td 
"Committed to uphold student rights •••" 
tiHIIItlttHIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIItlllllltiiiiiiHIHHI...HNIIHMIIH......HtH..I ....IH.. 
ND -SMC STUDENTS SUMMER DISCOUNT GROUP RATES 8 & 8 Storage Self· Service 
1/2 mile south of Niles K-Mart 3001 U.S. 31 ·east side of highway. 
SIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIII.....HHIHHHIIIG 

Max Schell's Tales From the Vienna Woods will not b'e shown; instead, we will see lstavan Szabo's Mephisto (1981), the story of an artist's "pact with the devil" during the Nazi years, and at the same time a chronicle of the struggle ~etween art and politics. 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
$ 2. 00 

lr~u ~ lltl31ti·lr--.........,__, 




------=l
Editorials 
Monday, April 25, 1983 -page 6 

The fine art of verbiomutilation 
Strunk and White's The Elements ofStyle i;; much like the Bible. Many ofus sing its praises but few of us read it, much less apply it. It alone is our salvation from circumlocution and verbosity, flaws which doom recalcitrant souls. 
Keith Picher 

Short of Profundity 
We love to use complex phrases when simple ones suffice. One need only watch television, read the newspaper, or talk with a bureaucrat to be convinced. 
Howard Cosell, the king of verbiage, has destroyed in ten years what Shakespeare, Mil­ton, and others spent centuries perfecting. Wide receivers are not "quick" or "fleet" but instead, "possess great speed." Virtually e.very 
( unrespectable) sports commentator now uses the word "opportunistic," though few people ever knew it existed in pre-Cosellian times. And how often do baseball announcers mention that a pitcher "has had good success control-wise" when all they really wanted to say was "he had control." 
But Howard is not the only culprit. Economists, engineers, and others who are bored with their dreary studies often try to impress outsiders with their verbal gymnas­tics. "Independent causative factors" replace causes and "resultant synergistic conse­quences" seem more impressive than effects. Phrases like "maximal peak growth efficiency relationships" and "diminishing marginal rates of substitution" lure economists-to-be into believing that sophisticated gob­bledygook is more becoming than simple Anglo-Saxon language. 
Last spring, during the process of applying for a job, a section of my competency exam tested my ability to decipher bureaucratic jib­berish. They weren't concerned with my ability to say or do anything productive, but 
rather, whether or  not  I could understand  
others' incompetency.  
Spoken  language  is  prone  to  

"terminological inexactitude" because of its spontaneous nature, and nobody expects to hear heroic couplets from passersby. So why do we try so hard to sound like William F. Buckleys who spend more time thinking about what they're going to say than actually saying it. "This is the sort of English up with which I will not put," as Churchill once said. In trying to sound like eloquent statesmen, we end up sounding like obnoxious drunken fools. 
Have you ever noticed how some people have an incredible knack of finishing what they're saying long before they stop talking? 
More than a few times I have found myselt nodding, yawning, and wincing at long, worthless, boring, run-on pieces of quaint English verbiage which manage to accentuate that small bit of the sentence which has no useful purpose to the disinterested reader, other than to thoroughly confuse him or her over what the actual point that the real sen­
tence is trying to make is. 
And to those who enjoy quoting extensive­ly from foreign vocabularies, I wonder what you're trying to prove. IfI were an expert in Latin, French, or German I'd speak those lan­guages and not English. Instead, I feel like a poor uneducated slob whenever I stumble across je ne sais quoi, prosit, or flagrante delicto. 
Speaking and writing are skills which take 
years to perfect. Our task would be easier if 
we'd only "simplify, simplify, simplify." Ifyou 
can say it in fewer words, do. 


P. 0. BoxQ 
no doctor to even give him a measles shot -you would stand to benefit from a bit of changed except what is dead." A something everyone here takes for granted. reflective work in this area. theologian's job is not to undermine or take
Clark's heart: 
We need to improve the health care ofthose With regards to you Mr. Quinlan, I think issue with recognized, divinely revealed who need it most before we worry about ar­that your problem with the Theology truths because these are . unalterable. tificial hearts. While the lure of having your department is one of a confusion in your However, the formulation of basic truths name in the media as a doctor working on a mind of the definition of Theology versus can, do, and need to change, grow and new experiment such as an artificial heart is the definition of dogma. You should know develop in order to express more fully for us 

Is it progress? 
Dear Editor: 

very enticing, when choosing their careers that they are two very different things. Quite the complete truth of God's revelation. In a as doctors, today's pre-meds should remem­simply, dogmas are infallible teachings nutshell, this is the theologian's sacred duty.
The imagination of America was stirred 
ber that very few people on an Indian about God's revelation to us and are thus, Itis not what you have called "irresponsible
during the preceding months ofnews that an 
reservation ever live to be 45-years-old. Bar­the basic, unchanging beliefs of the Church. academic speculation."
artificial heart -a man-made fabrication of 
ney Clark was 67 when doctors gave him an Because these basic teachings are divinely
metal and plastic -was keeping a middle­
Mr. Quinlan, I admire your concern over

extra 1 12 days of life. How many Indians revealed, they are unalterable and can never
aged dentist, Barney Clark, alive. All the ele­
what the theologians are teaching here at

died when they were 40 from a lack ofmedi­be negated.
ments for a heroic story were there: the life 
Notre Dame. Theology being a science

cal care because Barney Clark's doctors
saving operation hurriedly performed when 
I agree with you that there are absolute much the same as any other science, is a
wanted to be a part ofprogress.
the patient's skin was blue from a lack of 
truths, but I put it to you that absolute truths speculative and open-ended field, which by oxygen, the unknown chances for success in james Rickert reside with and are understood fully by God its nature can sometimes go a bit overboard this never before performed operation, and 
alone. While true, any teaching by the with theories. When you, I, or anyone else 
a faithful wife who never doubted the 
Church cannot claim to be whole and ab­speaks out for or against some theological 
outcome. In the end, the operation finished 
solute, and you should know that the theory, the theologians get a better sense of 
successfully; Clark's life was extended -he Church does not claim to possess absolute where they are heading. However, you was granted an extra 112 days of life by the 

From the middle 
truth by its claim of infallibility. Rather, the would do well Mr. Quinlan, to remember miracles of science. This truly is progress, 
"trueness" or infallibility of a dogma is only that no matter how far offbase a theologian's"!nd it's great. Dear Editor: as whole or infallible as we humans are able efforts may seem to you to be, they are al­to see: what may be true today, may be even ways sincere attempts to discern and better
Since I am a pre-medical major, I can un­I am sure that I am not the only person 
truer tomorrow due to a deeper human un­express the truth of Christ's message. When
derstand the doctors' desire to save Clark's who has been following with interest (and 
derstanding. While the Holy Spirit reveals to you attack them and their work with care­life by any means possible, to develop a perhaps a bit of amusement also) the recent 
the Church the infallible truth ofGod, by our less rhetoric as being "irresponsible and new surgical technique that could open un­exchanges between Philip Foubert and Mic­
nature we humans cannot grasp it in its en­diversive," you arc not only being unfair but 
told new vistas into new medical hael Quinlan. Without elaborating. the con­
tirety all at once. Therefore, Christ's teach­also slanderous to them. knowledge. However, in the 1 12 twelve cerns which each of them have expressed in 
ings while completely revealed to us, have 
days that Clark's army of physicians were their columns commend both of them as want avoid a
not been grasped by us in their entirety and If you to being labelled 
fighting to keep him alive, untold thousands committed Christian people. However, due vigilante or worse, a witch hunter -by
must necessarily be seen as being in various ­of people were dying of rubella, influenza, to some ofthe potentially hostile remarks on the Mr. Fouberts then exercise a little more
stages ofdevelopment.and tuberculosis in Appalacia, in the ghettos both sides, I feel tha.t some observations judgment next time in your choice of ofNew York and on Indian reservations. The from the middle might serve to prevent this This is where the theologians come in. As vocabulary. diseases afflicting these people are readily useful and necessary dialogue from turning the old saying goes: "There is nothing new curable ifonly these people had the doctors into a "Holy War" ofsorts. under the sun, but nothing remains un­to cure them. In the interests of progress, hundreds of doctors fight to give one man First I would like to address myself to Mr. I00 days of life, and these doctors were Foubert. While l mostly agree with your rewarded by the honor, prestige, and view of the function and meaning of the heroism that our society has since bestoyed science of Theology, I could not help but upon them, but they could have given years cringe at your use of the term "vigilante of life to thousands of people if they had mentality" to describe Mr. Quinlan's sincere worked where doctors are scarce. efforts to search for the truth. While those efforts may be a bit confused, and though Mr. New miracles ofmedicine have blinded us Quinlan might stand to gain from "the to the fact that tens of thousands still need­reflective discipline of course work in lessly die because they are given no medical Theology," nevertheless your descriptions care. Ifall ofBarney Clark's ensemble ofdoc­of his efforb as being pernicious and tors had worked in poor areas where they coercive" are totally inappropriate -espe­are most needed, thousands of people, who cially for an older and more experienced have needlessly died, would still be alive man like yourself today. A dichotomy exists today between the medical care given to the rich and that You should realize that you do more harm given to the poor. While an urban dentist than good not only to yourselfand Mr. Quin­can look forward to an articial heart to keep lan, but also to the Theology department him alive,anAppalacian coal miner will have when you use this kind of rhetoric. Maybe 

lh~~r========== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Obseroer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eithe.r institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to allmembers ofthe community, and the free expressionofvaryingopinionson_sampus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 

Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ............................ David Dziedzic Saint Mary's Editor ...............Anne Monastyrski Managing Editor ....................Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn Features Edttor............................Sarah Hamilton News Editor.............................. Bob Vonderheide Photo Editor........................................ Scott Bower News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh 

Department Managers 

Business Manager .............. -.......D;miel 0'1-iare Circulation Manager...................... Mark Miotto 
Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager .................... : ......Bruce Oakley Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 
---------------~--------------------------~---------------------------------------------------,
~-­

How freshman can you get 
O
nly 17 days left. Seventeen days until I must face the real world smack in the face. Ouch! No, I'm not a graduating senior riding off to seek fame and fortune with a sheepskin under my arm. Next year I'll still be watching the Irish fight from the student section. Maybe then I'll even get a seat closer to the field than the back wall -for next year, I'll be a sophomore! 
I think the old cliche, out of the frying pan and into the fire, was written for just such a predicament. Being a freshman may indeed be a lowly position: a cubbyhole for a dorm room, classes from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m., and of course, Emil. But it did provide an instant excuse for everything. No junior could get away with purchasing tickets for the An Tostal chariot races from an enterpris­ing senior, but for a freshman, it is almost expected be-

Satah Hamilto1r\ 
featutes 
havior. 
Somehow I don't think that I will gain massive amounts of knowledge, grace and poise over the sum­mer. And yet if I don't, I will surely be lost come fall when I return to the land ofthe Hoosiers. I'll be out here on my own without even a dumb freshman look on my face to save me. (It will be a dumb sophomore look, instead.) When I do my first load ofwash for the 1983­84 school year in October and am balancing that load and a box of detergent and a bottle of fabric softener and a book to read while my clothes clean and a roll of dimes and one of quarters which I carefully saved and packaged during my summer months I will have no excuse when that roll ofdimes falls and breaks all over the staircase followed by my basket of clothes as they did this year and I have to take offmy sneaker to put the money in it. I will simply look like a freshman. Oh, how embarrassing. 
Freshman year was just fuii of"typical" freshman ac­tivities which in twenty years I may look back on and laugh at without blushing. I doubt it before then. Probably the most amusing thing about freshmen is their wide-eyed ambition and readiness to take on the 
world, or at least this campus. Every frosh must partake 
in one year ofphysical education class and most fill 
their six rotations with such classes as golfand social 
dance, or volleyball for those more athletically inclined. 
But what places a Notre Dame student above the rest? 
Ambition, determination, the drive to succeed; a loose 
screw, maybe? Unsatisfied with the run ofthe mill P.E. 
choices and forgetting for the moment the three men to 
one woman ratio, I chose sumo wrestling. And they say 
the place to meet guys is the library. Next rotation I 
took first aid. 

Next to keeping track ofyour keys and ID and learn­
ing which is Alumni and which is Dillon, probably the 
most difficult part ofbeing a freshman Domer is learn­
ing the NO lingo. I had trouble when I first looked for 
the 'brare and O'Shag on the far side ofSt. Joe's lake. I 
still refuse to sign up for Orgo next semester. I think it's 
something kinky. But you see, I was betteroffthan most 
entering freshmen. When I was but a mere child, a 
junior in high school, I came to visit NO, and attended a 
fashionable hat and tie party at Stanford. Amidst the 
noise ofpeople chatting and music blaring (give me 
some credit) several people asked me if I was from 
"SMiC." I thought they were asking me ifl attended 
Smith College. So I responded, "No, I'm only in high ··school." I am wiser for the experience for even when I 
first arrived here I kn~w it was my role to grit my teeth 
at the very sight ofa "SMiC chick." 
Ah, but it all passed so quickly. My first Emil seemed 
like only yesterday, and now I am cramming for my last 
Finite Math exam. (I realized I was not meant to be an 
engineer.) But I won't lose these memories for I have 
saved mementos throughout the year. How freshman. I 
have tucked away in my trunk a scrap of toilet paper 
from a tree on Notre Dame Ave. from after the Pitt 
game, my first $150 phone bill ( I still haven't paid it), a 
mud ball from An Tostal, itis more like dirt now, and my 
first pink slip, along with my second and third and 
fourth. Memories, some should stay tucked far back in 
the corners of my mind. 
And now I am preparing for sophomorehood. It's a 
bigstep, but that time must come in every Domer's life. 
I just hope it doesn't mean Ican't gaze up at the Golden 
Dome with starry eyes again until my 25th Class 
reunion. 





Not n lnughing mntter 

, 


Yenr's end gripes 
D
on't look now, but the end ofschool year 1983-84 is almost upon us. Yes, we'll soon be stuffing the assembled refuge from the bottoms ofour closets into the crowded confines ofour suitcases until it can all be comfortably settled in the bottoms ofour closets at home. (Doubtless, this migration of mess will take place much to the secret dismay ofour mothers, they having managed to achieve some semblance ofcivilized order during our extended ab­sences.) Our bags thus packed and our $8000 fully spent, we head homeward for our annual summer sabbaticals. Following are a few thoughts about the hectic eventssurrounding the termination ofthe academic year. 
It is a healthy American tradition, this yearly shutdown of academia, one that may rival death and taxes in its inevitability. More than anything else, the sound ofthat last bell is a signal, a certain af­firmation ofsummer's start -despite any meteorological or calen-
Chris Fraser 
featutes 

daric (is that a word?) protests. Indeed, everyone knows that when school's out, white jackets and flowered shorts may be tastefully worn -although not necessarily at the same time, mind you. 
Ofcourse, the intricacies ofwardrobe are certainly not in the forefront ofthe average student's mind right now. Surely, this posi­tion isoccupied by the intolerable process offinal examinations and its accompanying queasiness. This is at least true for freshmen, soph­omores, and juniors. Seniors, on the other hand, are often lucky enough to avoid the tedium offinals, although obviously they aleady have their share ofproblems, what with trying to figure out their lives and stuff. It may be best, however, not to rehash all those cliches about the real world -most ofthe seniors are a bit shaky and teart y-eyed already and it would not be kind to nudge them over the breaking point with cruel taunts about their uncertain futures. Remember, (ifyou're not careful) you too may one day be a senior. 
Getting back to finals, I realize that there really is not a whole lot to say. The weather warms up (usually), the sun finally emerges (knock on wood), and we lock ourselves indoors and bury our noses in the pages ofPlato, in a desperate attempt to make up the reading that was ignored all those nights on a corner stool in Corby's (Nickie's patrons always read their Plato). Clearly, the whole process is un­natural. And besides, everyone knows that finals are simply the professors' way ofgetting us back for all the times we slept through class on dreary Friday mornings when they had to be there. In addi­tion, some professors tend to get upset at this time ofyear because they know that the lazy bum from the engineeringschool -the one who's taking the course pass/fail and only shows up for tests -is working for Exxon next year at twice the salary ofan ~ssistant prof with a PHD in metaphysical humanistic philosophy. Professors whose heads are on the chopping block of tenure consideration are especially susceptible to this problem, and often give the most dif­ficult finals. 
Yet none ofthis understanding makes finals any less painful for John Q. Student, who must confront these injustices amidst worries over asummer job and last minute partying responsibilities. Some of us have more trouble than others in the jostling ofthese duties, which brings me to my next major point, that is, the three types of people who really bug me (i.e. I hate them) at this time ofyear. First, Ican't stand anyone who has already started studyingfor finals. Hey, there are those among us who don't even know when their finals are. My guess is that most of us are still recovering from midterms (and Spring Break) and struggling to finish those last annoying assign­ments. Anyone who has commenced study for final examinations should heretofore be sentenced to continual reading of the Aspirin Man (quasi) comic strip during the designated study days_ 
Second on my list and only slightly less distasteful than early finals studies are yet another group ofpremature planners. I hate anyone who already has a job lined up for the summer. You know these people. They slimed their way into some glamorous job and then suckered the boss into bringing them back again this summer. So they pull in ten bucks an hour for less work than an lntro to Psych classand take off a week or two to perfect their tan lines. Disgusting. 
The third group ofpeople I envy ...er ...hate are related to this time ofyear only by circumstance. This group is comprised of ·anyone who has their picture in the yearbook. Ifit wasn't for the pe­riodic bills, my parentswouldn't believe I really went to school here because for the third straight year I'm not even in the background of a shot at a football game.! have this recurrring nightmare that for my senior portrait they're going to stick in one of those obnoxious caricatures titled "Photo Not Available." What can l say to my grandchildren when they leaf through my old and worn yearbooks and ask, "Where are you, Grandpa?" So I hate all the people in year­book pictures, especially those big color candids that must contain all the friends ofthe photographers. I'm always very careful to go out 
on gorgeous fall, winter, and spring days and position myself in all the photographic hotspots around campus -the Grotto, the lake, at various angles from the dome. I put on my best pensive looks as ifI'm pondering Augustinian theology or something, and lean against a tree, a perfect shot. However, I have yet to weasel my way onto the pages ofTbe Dome. 
Well, there you have it, my thoughts on the school year's end. I guess I'd bettergo warn my parents that I'll be home in a few weeks. I sure hope they tell me this time ifthey plan on moving again. See you 
t.!_lextyear. ~ 
H
er name is Barb. She's a regular at my favorite ne-ighbor­hood tavern. I've spoken to her once or twice, but a few jokes traded in a bar don't reveal much about a per­son. Beyond her name, all I really know is her profession -and that it bothers me when my friends laugh­ingly refer to her as the world's ugliest whore. 
Her qualifications for this title, apart from offering herselffor sale every night at my favorite pub, in­clude a prominent, hooked nose atop a square and protruding jaw, 

Btuce Oakley 
out on a. limb 

and a little more weight around the 
waist than·is considered attractive in 
these days ofhour-glassfigures. That the hook ofthe nose appears to have resulted from violence rather than from a mere accident ofgenealogy does not effect the decision of the 
judges. 
That her body is in what might be considered good shape for a woman ofher age also has no bearing on their opinion. Maybe; that's because her age is hard to determine beneath her makeup -and nobody wants to look for the person beneath the · makeup. 
I'm not sure why it upsets me when the jokesstart flying about the "WUW." I have made my share of jokes about ugly women, ribbing friends mercilessly for dallying with women whose appearances reminded me oflines from "Old MacDonald Had a Farm." I have laughed at stereotypical images of women from SMC chicks to Valley girls to cheerleaders. It seems silly 
that Ishould be so offended by snide 
remarks about this "ugliest" prac­titioner ofthe oldest profession. 
But like some mad Quixote at odds with the reality that makes me ludicrous, I find myselfwanting to defend this woman against those who laugh. When the jokes inevitab­ly start, I inevitably find myself reminding my friends that the woman deserves some modicum of respect. 
"Her name is Barb," I always say, like a parrot endlessly squawking the only phrase it knows. 
I try to tell them that she is actual­ly quite friendly, and not only in the sense demanded by her occupation. In our few briefchats at the bar, she has been pleasant -she has a surprisingly school-girlish disposi­tion. 
And I have often heard her engage in light-hearted banter with som~ of the old men who are regulars at the bar. Enviably at ease with herself, she handles their jokes about her easy virtue with disarming grace. 
My friends seem not to think her capable ofsuch charm. 
They prefer to laugh at this loose woman wearing tight skirts; to sit in comer booths and laugh at her idea offashion. ; 
They think it's fashionable to 
count the number ofcustomers she 
takes out of the place in a given 
night, always obscenely hoping for a 
record-breaking evening. 
Iam disturbed by this lack ofcom­passion. I can't help but think that maybe this woman has led a harsh life and is coping with it in the best way she knows. 
I can't help but wonder ifperhaps the only sentiment she ever finds is in the music she plays night after night on the old jukebox: "My Way," "Have You Ever Been Lonely," "You'll Never Walk Alone." Oldies by Sinatra, Jim Reeves and Elvis sometimes seem items ofhopelessly romantic nostalgia -laughable, syrupy remnants ofdays long since past -to members of my genera­tion. Few consider that the simple lyrics may speak volumes about in­dividuality, loneliness and hope in 
an age ofice. 
Maybe that is why I am uneasy laughing at Barb -I feel chilled by the same cold that I imagine has brought her to her station at the lo­cal saloon. Perhaps in the back ofmy mind there's a thought that I might have chosen the same path to warmth that she has taken. 
Perhaps, too, I am afraid to laugh because I'm not sure that I will never pay her price. I don't know that I will always be secure enough not to need the companionship ofsuch a woman. 
And maybe beyond all the demands ofsimple human decency or the lunacy of Don Quixote bat­tling imaginary knights-errant to protect the honor ofan only­imagined lady, what stifles my laughter most is the thought of giving Barb a chance to have the last laugh at someone whose ugliness surpasses what the eye can see. 
----~-~----------~-------------~-~ 
The Observer -Monday, April25, 1983-page 8 

Story by 

Kevin Binger 
Photos by Pete Laches 

Page design by Scott Bower 
It seems like the only time two people hug around here is when one of them is covered with mud and the other isn't. 
Maybe mud brings out the romance in people. It definitely brings out the people. Students turned out by the thousands Saturday (and not one Izod shirt or chino skirt amongst them -it was the worst dressed gather­ing of the year) to flop around in the mud and bask in the elusive sunshine. 
Kudos go to the Sumo-wrestlers, the guy who did a backflip off the diving board, and the fool who did a headstand in the middle of the quagmire. It's nice to have a few people who will break the ice. 
Incidentally, several chariot races were run amidst all 
the flying mud and flailing wrestlers. 

Stanford won the men's race after waiting a good half 
hour for the pit to be cleared between the preliminaries 
and the final heat. Lewis won the women's after an even 
longer wait at the beginning. 

"We just cut them offat the turn," said Stanford's Eric Martinez of their final-heat conquest of Cavanaugh. "The post fell'over and blocked their path and we just broke away." 
"We knew we were going to win," insisted Ray Fronk, one of Martinez's teammates. "It was in the bag." 
In the meantime, Grace's and Dillon's chariots were in the scrapheap. It seems a t1tting irony that the two best looking chariots left the muck and mire in a shambles. 
Grace's John Olson added invaluably to the irony by declaring, "It was foul play." 
"We had the position when we made the turn but Keenan was on our right and the tires hooked," said Olson. The tension snapped Grace's big blue chariot right in two. 
Dillon's charioteers were lucky to get out of the mud alive after Brian McHugh was pushed under his own chariot wheel and the "Big Red Machine" tipped and crashed. The stranded team was besieged by a frenzied horde and a hail of mud and gravel that made Custer's Last Stand look like the Family Feud. 
But honestly, the things some people won't do for attention. 
It started T~ursday at Saint Mary's when Jim Canty, better known as Mr. Flanner, tried to capture the atten­tion ofthe Mr. Campus judges by shaving his head. 
"It just seemed like the thing to do," said Canty. "It is getting warm out. I thought it would be crazy enough so nobody else would do it." 
Wrong, skinhead. 

Mr. Zahm, Michael Helmstetter, topped him. Helmstetter shaved his roommate's head and then painted it gold, calling it the domer haircut. 
"We wanted to win," said the newly hairless john Foley. "We thought shaving my head would be original but that guy from Flanner screwed us up." 
Bob Thompson, Mr. St. Ed's and the crowd favorite, showed up both in this semi-beefcake display turned quasi-talent contest. The only one who got louder cheers than Thompson was the MC when he an­nounced the end ofthe talent segment. 
Thompson walked off with both the victory trophy and the coveted Mr. Congeniality award. 
Said Thompson in his own inimitable style after being named Mr. Congeniality, "It's great to see such a great turnout. It's great to be a part of this. Let's get on with this damn thing." 
Thompson's stirring rendition of Billy joel's "Until the Night" topped such other acts as Mr. Sorin doing Mother Theresa jokes, Mr. Howard crushing eggs against his face and Mr. Stanford singing along with a Billy Squier record. And this is what An Tostal is all about. It's the biggest festival of one-upsmanship in America next to the Presidential primaries. Call it keeping up with the Joneses, call it anything you like. but call us. Everyone wants a piece of the action. 
Remember Allen Pinkett's great kick return in the 
Penn State game? The one where he caught the ball 
deep in ND territory, slipped between every defender 
and dashed the length of the tlcld for a touchdown? 
Well, forget it! 
The most exciting down of football on Notre Dame turfthis year happened Saturday behind Stepan Center. The Saint Mary's all-stars, in red, and Farley Hall, in white, were locked in a scoreless, center-of-the-field duel when the Belles' Barb Theiss received the ball on a pitch left and took off 
Turning the corner behind one great block and cut­ting back behind another, Theiss raced 60 yards down the center of the field with Farley's defenders in hot pursuit. 
"It was the blocking that did it," she said. "It was real­ly lucky, it was just the old 27-sweep." Normally the fullback, Theiss had never run the play before. 
That six points proved the victory margin despite the efforts of Farley's star quarterback, Beth Hackett. The Blair Kiel of Farley Hall, Hackett throws a perfect spiral and throws it a long way. In the waning minutes of the game she threw two perfect bombs that bQunced just offthe fingertips ofher receivers. 
"They played a different type of defense than we've 
seen," said Hackett. "They had two people on the 
outside; we're not used to that." 
"It was tougher," she said, comparing the Saint Mary's 
game to interhall games. "They hit harder." 
With Saint Mary's collecting football accolades at 

Notre Dame, it seemed fitting that two Notre Dame 
football players should stand out at the Saint Mary's pic­
nic on Thursday. 
Mike Kelley and Greg Golic left the rest ofthe contes­tants with egg on their faces, winning the egg throwing contest with a toss ofseveral dozen yards. 
"They're offensive linemen so they've had a lot of 
practice holding onto things," said Golic's brother 
Mike. 
Notre Dame women did shine in the mud volleyball t1nals. The flying Maternowski sisters, Jo and Mo, and Maureen Morin led their male teammates to victory .over the all-male "Mud Between Your Toes." In a well­played if not well-attended game, "Hit Us Harder" won 
the third and deciding game I S-13. 
"We'd have won it in two if we hadn't had the guys," 
said Morin. Jo Maternowsky and Morin are members of 
the varsity team. 
Ever meet Mike 'Gorgar' Gurdak? He's not ugly! So 
how does he win l!MOC every year? 
He may not be #I but he works harder. 
With campaign posters and outragous stunts, he's 
won the last three UMOCs going away. His goldfish­
eating act in front of the South Dining Hall made the 
news on WNDU this year. 
In a cage made ofbedsprings, a costumed Gurdak eats goldfish for spare change. Now that's news. 
"One of my roommates freshman year said I looked 
uglier when I got up in the morning." That was all it 
took to get things going. 
Last year he brought in S I ,200 worth ofvotes and this 
year he estimates that he brought in $880. 
"The guys around Holy Cross arc great. I would es­
timate that about three-fourths of the money comes 
from them." 
"It's a little bit of an ego trip, coming from a small 
town and a small high school where everybody knows 
you. Here you're a small frog in a big pond again." 
Gurdak enjoys his celebrity status. "It's fun. You walk 
down the quad and people yell 'Gorgar!!"' 
The nickname came from a pinball machine of that 
name in Holy Cross. "The monster was really ugly," he 
says. "When the girls find out you're the UMOC, it 
helps the ego trip a little. They say. 'You're not ugly."' 
"It's a tongue-in-cheek competition. It would be pret­ty rude to run somebody who is really ugly, although some people do. I've beaten some pretty ugly competi­tion." 
An Tostal can be summed up as a weekend where no 
one is sure who they want to be. The underclassmen 
start it out Thursday night pretending they are old 
enough to drink and the upperclassmen finish it off 
Saturday night with classic Freudian regression at 
Recess. 

.. ..............................................................................
~~ ~ 
The Observer -Monday, April25, 1983-page 9 


Who needs to get out ofbed? 
A day at the races. 


New perspectives. 


MUD! The agony ofthe toss. 
--~----------------------------------------------------------------~~~------------­




Sports B~~r~~z·e~;t~s====~==========M=o=nd=ar=·=Ap=ri=Iz=s=,1=9=s3==pa=ge=1:::lo 
by The Obserz•er and The Associated Press 
The Notre Dam.e women's tennis team lost at 
Purdue last saturday by an 8-1 count. The doubles team ofLaura Lee and Lisa LaFratta was the only winning entry for the Irish women, whose mark fell to 7-8 on the season. NO will face Western Michigan at Courtney on Tuesday. -The Observer 
Dillon Hall beat Holy Cross, 11-1o in the champion­ship of this spring's campus softball tournament Friday, reports "Commissioner" Ben Cunningham. Cunningham wished to thank all participating entries. -The Observer 
Another first Will OCCUr at Notre Dame Stadium 
this Saturday when two women's teams, interhall champion Farley Hall and runner-up Pasquerilla East, will play after the Blue-Gold game. Farley comes into the game with a 7-2 record. The team lost two games in regular season play last fall, before winn~ng both games to capture the title. PE also had a winning season, makmg the playoffs for the second time in only its second season before losing to Farley, 8-0, in the final game. -The Observer 
We're Fisher, Dammit,l despite the loss of star Frank McLaughlin, pulled out the An Tostal Ultimate Frisbee crown Saturday with a 16-9 win over the Losers, a team from S~anford H~ll. Tim Kelley andJoe Dohopolski paced the Fishereffort. Ftsher, whtch. won the tourney in 1981 and was runner-up last year, ran up a 114­
32 margin throughout the tournament. -The Observer 
The Lust Bombswere the winner of the 1983 AnTos­tal Inner Tube Water Polo title, by beating Dick Moby ..., 13·8. The Lust Bombs, paced by cheerleader Don Shank, were the NVA cham­pions in the fall. The Lust Bombs beat Stackin' the Pack Friday, _14-5, to advance to the final, and Moby beat Stubby Stack, 1 1-10, m an overtime thriller. -The Observer 
Larry Gallo's Irishbaseball team had its Midwestern City Conference record at 4-4 as the University ofDetroit won three offour games in its series at U-D Saturday and yesterday. In the first doubleheader, the Titans won by counts of7-4 and 8-4 as GregJaun and Mark Clementz took the losses. Freshman Brad Cross' four-hitter led NO to a 4-2 win yesterday, but Detroit's six-run rally led to an 8-7 Irish loss in a marathon. The Irish will complete their regular-season next weekend with a home-and-home set against Butler. Neal Smith will review the weekend series in tomorrow's Observer. -The Ob­server 
continuedfrom page 16 
working on their two-minute of­fense. With just 48 seconds left on the clock, Kiel hit 5-9, 167-pound junior split end Joe Howard with a 48-yard strike for the touchdown. 
The No. 1 offense looked ex­tremely sharp on another occasion as they started first and goal on the nine yard. line. A holding penalty, however, suddenly found them back on the nineteen yard line, but on fourth down and goal Kiel rolled right and threaded a beautiful pass to 6-4, 190-pound senior split end Mike Favorite, who caught the ball amid several defenders in the back corner ofthe end zone. 
The second team also came up with a score while working first and goal from the nine. After being stopped on three previous plays, sophomore tailback Lester Flemons scored with an impressive dive over the top of the pile on fourth down from the one. A bad snap cost them the point after attempt. 
Junior fullback Chris Smith turned in a solid performance for the of­fense as he carried five times and gained 39 yards. Twenty-seven ofhis yards came on one play. While working with the second team, Smith split two defenders and raced to the end zone for a touchdown. 
Also scoring for the Irish were 
junior quarterback Scott Grooms 
who crossed the go aline on a rollout 
from the four yard line, and senior 
split end Mike Viracola who 
gathered in a 28 yard pass from 
senior quarterback Tom Cushing. 
The leading passer on the day was 
Kiel as he hit 9 of 17 attempts for 
166 yards, two touchdowns and no 
interceptions. Grooms was one for 
two for 11 yards with the first team 
and 7-for-10 with one interception 
and 62 yards with the second team. 
Sophomore Todd Lezon saw action 
with both the second and third uni­
ts, and he went 6-for-10 for 54 yards 
and one interception. Cushing also 
worked with the second and third 
teams and he compiled a perfect 
three-for-three for 51 yards and one 
touchdown. Senior Kevin Smith was 
• • • Third 

one-for-three for 14 yards. touchdown; and junior fullback 
The top three members of the Mark Brooks carried the ball eight Irish receiving corps were Howard, times and gained 26 yards. · Favorite and sophomore tight end In the field goal department, Brian Behmer. Howard pulled in 
Johnston missed four long attempts 

four passes for 89 yards and one from 44, 55, 57 and 61 yards. Sopho­
touchdown, Favorite had three more Hal V ton Wyl missed once from 
grabs for 66 yards and Behmer five 50 yards. 
for 55 yards. 
IRISH ITEMS -Junior defensiveThe top ground gainer on the day end Joe 'Bars missed Saturday's was sophomore Ray Carter who workout due to a bruised thigh.

rushed 12 times for 43 yards while Sophomore guard Tim Scannell suf­seeing action with both the first and £ered torn ligaments in his kneesecond units. Kiel was the third during Wednesday's practice andleading rusher, rushing four times also didn't play. Sophomoreand gaining 36 yards. Sophomore 
tailback Allen Pinkett rushed 1 3 linebacker Tony Furjanic played 
times and gained 33 yards. Flemons Saturday despite still wearing the 
had nine rushes for 28 yards and one cast for his broken fingers. 
• • • Macri's 

continuedfrompage 16 
Tequila got there with victones over the Even-less Jacksonless Five and US. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -In the all-star game between Green and Gold teams, the Gold blew leads of 11-5 and 13-7 before finally winning in overtime, 24-22, as Tim Andree put in the final two points. Rick Lout­han, also ofthe Gold, shot 7-for-1 0 to win MVP honors in the game ... 
"Everything went well (in the tournament) until this weekend," said Dziedzic. "There was only one hitch, and that was unfortunate." That "hitch" occured in Friday's semi-final game between US and John Shoe and the Sneakers. Assis­tant Basketball Coach John Shumate ofJohn Shoe got a rebound and was violently stripped ofthe ball by Bub­ba Cunningham and Barry Fay of US. US immediately threw the ball away and Shumate turned to go upcourt. 
Words were exchanged between Cunningham and Shumate, at which point Shumate grabbed Cunnin­gham around the throat in a choke hold. The two were quickly separated and Shumate went to the other end of the court. When 
someone in the crowd called Shumate an unprintable name, he came back downcourt and went into the crowd after the person. Again, the parties were quickly separated. At this point, upon the urging of the referees, the commissioners agreed to let the game continue rather than ejecting Shumate and forcing his team to playfive on four. His team, at the time, was leading I 0-8. Shumate then apoligized to the crowd for his actions and the two teams finished the game withJohn Shoe going on to win, 21-16. Later, the commis­sioners decided that Shumate should have been ejected and that the game's outcome would have been different had he not been allowed to finish the game. Therefore, a time was set up on Saturday for the two teams to pick up the game at 10-8. Saturday, the John Shoe team showed up in their street clothes and argued that the original victory should stand. When this protest was denied, the John Shoe team then decided to forfeit, and US advanced into the semi­finals ... This was the last year that the finals and semi-finals will be played behind the ACC, as next year there will be a swimming pool 
where the court is now located. 
The Observer will accept classif1eds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to tnsertion. All classifieds must be prepaid.

Classifieds either in person or through the mail. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
TYPING, Jackie Boggs, 684-8793. 
Boardmg horses. 1 mi. from N.D. Covered arena. 277·5828 (ring 12x) 
TYPING -Professional and experienced in all phases of typing. Call Sue 277-3878. 
Typing ALL KINDS. After 6 p.m. 277­8534. 
Housesitters available June-August. Responsible married couple will ex­change light mamtenance for housing. Call Roberta 237·4444 from 8-5. 
FOR RENT 

4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all utilities included June or Sept. Call 319­322-8735 Patty 
6 bedroom. house 4rent completely fur­nished at 806 n st lOUIS also secUity alarm system connected to pohce· for further in­formation call 1 362-7160 excellent con­dition price negotiable. 
Summer School? Apts. for Rent near N.D. Utilitoes Pd. Less Gas ph.2720261 
Faculty pr Grad Students. 4 Bedroom House, fully furnished with washer/dryer Nice! $400/month. 288-3109. 
5-BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL. $400. 233-6779. 
TO GRAD STUDENT FOR FALL: FUR­NISHED, SPACIOUS 3-BEDROOM HOME. S.W. SIDE OF SO. BEND. ON BUS LIN. $400/MO., ALL UTILITIES IN­
CL. SMALL DEPOSIT. 287-3073. 

Clean furnished for 3-4 students, 931 N. Notre Dame. After 6_ p.m. 232-0535. 
To Sublet: One Bedoom Apt. Completely Furnished, Great Safe Location on Riveside Dr. Rent Negotiable. Call Sean, 289·9309 
For Summer storage call 283-3204 close to campus-secure-plenty of space 
--shareitwithafiendandsave---....... 
FOR SALE 
I 

L-----------...J 
FOR SALE BY OWNER Near Notre Dame. 2·bedroom brick house, fenced yard. Many extras. $37.000. Days: 232­2031, ask for Sylv1a. Other times: 288· 6134or239-7771. 
WEDDING DRESS and veil -Beautiful qiana, size 11-12.287-8428 after 5. 

WANTED 


Anyonecom1ng back on June 18th or 19th from the Washington D.C. area? Want to work out a ride? Call Kathleen at 2946. 
FEMALE NEEDS ROOMMATE FOR SUMMER SUBLET IN CHICAGO. LIN­COLN PRK APT GREAT VIEW OF LAKE CALL4418 
ROOMMATE-For summer and/or 83-84 school year-Prefer nonsmoking female grad.·share 2 bedroom at H1ckory Village­! have furnature. Call Gay C. 2397163­day, 2837707-eve. 
Wanted: Amp or PA system for solo gurtarist. Call 277-2369 7·8pm ONLY 
Wanted: S1ngle room on campus from May 2-12 approx. Will pay$$ Call 277­2369 7-8pm ONLY 
Help! I n~ed a nde back home to New Jer­seyth•ssummer. Can leave Tues May 10 If YOU can help me reach those Jersey beaches, call me, Barb, at 284-4427. 
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND/AKRON ON 4/29. PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 277­1705. 
I. LOST/FOUND 
.d 

FOUND ON SOUTH QUAD: Cas10 f1ve-· function watch. Has imt1als on the back. Blue. w1th solver watchband. Call Marty at 1022. 
LOST: MAN'S WATCH AT MUD VOL­LEYBALL COURTS GIVEN TO SCOREKEEPER PLEASE CALL 8317 
M1ss1ng bookbag. please return law books and notes to law school, no ques­tions asked or$ reward ask for M1ke R 
LOST· PAIR OF LADY'S BROWN LEAT­HER GLOVES W/TAN FUR LINING LOST ON FRIDAY BETWEEN BADIN HALL & ENGINEERING AUD. Of' IN ENGINEERING AUD. CALL DARLENE 6980. 
LOST/STOLEN FROM SOUTH DINING HALL. GRAY NEW BALANCE BOOKBAG. PLEASE RETURN NOTEBOOKS, THEY ARE VERY IM· PORTANT. CALL 3132 -NO QUES· TIONS ASKED. YOU CAN EVEN KEEP THE BOOKS. 
The narn of the guy from F1sher who got gas for me two Fidays ago. I owe you some bucks. Call John 3625 
FOUND: TRINITY HIGH SCHOOL Class R1ng -t 982. Initials CJJ 1ns1de. Found on sink'" bathroom of Nieuwland Sctence Hall Wednesday, April 20. Call Chris #3184 before it is pawned 
TICKETS 
Please Help! Need One LOWER ARENA TICKET for GRADUATION EXERCISES --Will trade one upper arena ticket or will buy. Please call Debbie at 234· 7961 Thanks! 
PLEASE HELP!II NEED GRADUATION TIICKETSIII Call Sherri at 2965. Will pay $. 
HELP!!!INeed Graduation Tickets Will pay$$$$$$ Call Mike 1764 
I desperately need five TICKETS for GRADUATION EXERCISES. Please call Phil at277-1759. Thanks. 
I_ PERSONALS 
INTERESTED IN WORKING WITH THE FLOC STRIKE IN AUGUST NEAR TOLEDO? Expenses pa1d. Call Peter or Kevin 283-3125 
1982 ND GRAD seeks financ1al assis­tance for Dental School (loans or any other a1d) excellent tax break. 
(312) 595-0215 
59 Ham11ton St. 
Bensenville, 11160101 
SENIORS .. MULDOON'SJI 
Check out Rush Street one more t1me before you graduate! $12 covers transportation, beer both ways to Ch1cago. Bus leaves Wed. evemng, Apnl 27 Call Paula x3631 for reservations. A senior month event. .don·t mtss tt! 
Knegs, so you finally got a personal! Four years of abuse and th1s IS all the thanks you'll ever get. 
Need booze money! Am sell1ng Yahama 6-string acoustic gwtar Ex.cond. $175 call Gregat3003 
Do you have photojournalism in your blood?? 
If so, why not jOin the illustrious ranks of The Observer photography team? If you have a 35 mm camera and th~rst tor shots, contact Scott at 239-5303 
HELP! I'M LOST IN THE SYSTEM! NO, WAIT -IAM THE SYSTEM!? 
SEND A MOUSE TO COLLEGE! 
SEND A MOUSE TO COLLEGE! 
SEND A MOUSE TO COLLEGE! 
SEND A MOUSE TO COLLEGE! Who says that twtion is expens•ve? For 87 cents you can gtve a mouse complete tUition and boad! Help f1ght cancer by buytng mtce for cancer reseach today 1n the climng halls. Thank you 
APEX ROCKS 
GET OUT AND PARTY WITH APEX AT SENIOR BAR TUES NITE 10 TIL 2 
Organtzattonal meet1ng for next year"s ND/SMC Young Democrats on Monday. April 25. 7:00 p.m . LaFortune Little Theatre 
Easten Atrllnes 15 proud to announce 1ts 
CAMPUS COSTCUTTERS PROGRAM. 
an efftctent, tnexpenstve way tn whtch to send your personal ttems home. for the summer break. For tnformatton, see Tuesday's or Wednesday's ad 1n the OB­SERVER or call J1m Forde. Eastern A"line·s Campus Rep at 3632. 
DearJMG 
1 bet my favor1te 4 yr. old never ex­pected a personal! How long are we go1ng to keep thiS up? U R A QT 
xoxo. 
JJB Tu those who made the work year 
Pete -FRIEND AND FELLOW BASS MAN. Bnan-Both here and home. L1bby & Scott -Who know just how to brmg a sm1/e, w1th great p1cs and even greater enthusiasm and joy. Kath -Our better half. Mike & Ed-Who always got sports 1n on 
time. 
Mikey. Maura. & Ryan-Who never fired us. Joe, Rabbit & Dzave -For tape and 
moral support. Tom Sapp -Who subbed for Pete and always did great. And to everyone else who helped us run smoothly and sm1hngly throughout the year. 
THAANKS FOR THE PLAY YEAR 
Tim. Scott & Pete -who ran Par 3 hke a well-oiled Planet Cla1re -for sweet sm1les. Ambo & Knst1 -all the G P lunch dates. Mike 0. -forlettmg us watch a real stud. The Brothers at Colorado Springs for hosprtalily unbounded Mom & Dad -for flnancmg thiS 4-year vacation Old Milwaukee & Jack Damels -for cunng mental1mpercept1ons. Trout Fishmg 1n Amenca and 8-pound test. The Pollee -for gen1us. Dog, Face. Boat. & Sandm1sta Chuckers 
Tunes Aob1n -for loveliness. Randy -for Keys G1bson. R1ck. Fender. Ludw1g. Moog. & Mana who deserves more. 
Congratulations Ambo You're han way home-keep 11 up! Love & k1sses -Peter 
Lost Sliver rehg1ous medal w1th s1lver cha1n somewhere around Stepan on Saturday. Please call Jom at 3313. 
Desperately NEED 3-5 graduation t1x for grandparents and uncle. W1ll pay$$ Call J1m at3313 


Monday, April25, 1983 page 11

The Observer NBAroundup 
Denver upsets Phoenix in series 
PHOENIX, Ariz. (AP) -Alex English scored 42 points and Mike Evans sank two crucial baskets in overtime as the Denver Nuggets beat the Phoenix Suns 11 7-112 in last night's deciding game of their National Basketball Association playoff series. 
Denver, winning the best-of-three mini-series two games to one, ad­vanced to the best-of-seven Western Conference semifinals, starting Tuesday against the San Antonio Spurs. 
It was the Nuggets' first mini­series victory in four appearances and they also became just the sixth team to overcome an opening game loss and win a mini-series since the NBA instituted the concept in ll975. 
Evans' three-point goal with 3 7 seconds left in the fourth quarter sent the game into overtime at 106­106. 
After Alvan Adams' jumper tied the score for the 15th time at 108­108, English hit a free throw and Evans added a layin for a l 11-109 Nugget lead. 
Evans then stole the ball from Suns guard Kvle Macy and went in 
for an uncom~sted tayup for a tt3-Phda. 112, New or 
108 Nugget bulge with 2:02 remain­ing in the extra period. 
Adams' jumper with 52 seconds left made it 115-112, but Denver center Dan Issei intercepted a Phoenix inbound pass with two seconds to go and sank two free throws one second later for the final points. 
Boston 98, Atlanta 79 
BOSTON (AP)-Larry Bird, hus­tling and muscling his way through when not hitting from the outside, scored 26 points as the Boston Cel­tics trounced the Atlanta Hawks 98­79 yesterday to move into the National Basketball Association's playoff quarterfinals. 
The Celtics open a best-of-seven 

series with the Milwaukee Bucks in Boston tomorrow. Tempers flared during the game, and both benches emptied when 
. Boston's 6-5 Danny Ainge charged head-on into Atlanta's 7-1 Tree Rol­lins midway through the third period. Ainge and Mike Glenn of the Hawks were ejected for fighting. 
Boston took the lead 28 seconds into the game when Alnge hit a three-point shot from the corner, his only field goal. Boston built its ad­vantage to 21-8 before Atlanta responded with a 13-:3 run. 
Boston led 32-23 after the first period, and widened its advantage to 59-45 at halftime as Kevin McHale scored 14 of his 16 po"ints in the second quarter. The Celtics built their lead to as much as 21 points in the third period and coasted the rest of the way. 
Cedric Maxwell added 19 points for the Celtics and Gerald Hender­son had 12. 
Rollins led the Hawks with 18 points, Johnny Davis had 15, and Dan Roundfield 10. 
• y k 102 

PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Moses Malone, wearing elastic supports on his injured knees, scored 38 points and grabbed 1 7 rebounds as the Philadelphia 76ers defeated the New York Knicks 112-102 yesterday in the first game of their National Basketball Association Eastern semi­final playoff. 
The 6-10 Malone, who hadn't played since April 10, dominated the middle as the 76ers took the lead late in the first period and never relinquished it. 
The Knicks, who lost five ofsix to 

the 76ers during the regular season, 
face the 76ers in the second game of 
the best-of-seven set here on Wed­
nesday night. Games 3 and 4 are in 
New York Saturday and Sunday. 
New York was handicapped when 
• • • Oreos 

The inside game was even more of a factor in Oreos· 21·1 '! semitlnal win over Who Cares. In a game that was marked by poor shooting by both teams, Oreos grabbed over 50 rebounds while Who Cares could only pull down 27. Eventually, it was Matvey's power inside that led her team into the finals. Matvey pulled down 16 rebounds and tied Milota for high-scoring honors with seven baskets. 
Pneumothorax, on the other hand, lost the rebounding battle but won its semifinal game against Uvulas, a team made up of Notre Dame basketball player Debbi Hensley and some field hockey players. Foul shooting was the dif­ference as Pneumothorax was a per­fect 4 of4 from the line as it defeated Uvulas, 21-16. 

continuedfrom page 16 
first two foul shots and Van Ort turned some offensive rebounds in­to baskets to keep the margin within two. 

When Van Ort converted an of­fensive rebound early in the second half, it cut the Oreos lead to just 13­12, but )ohnso~. Matvey, and Epps began an Oreo surge that saw them score eight ofthe last nine baskets of the game. 
In the end, Oreos won in the same way that it won every other game in the tournament -with its inside play. While there were no statistics taken for blocked shots, Matvey, Epps, and Milota blocked at least eight or nine shots between them. Oreos also outrebounded Pneumot­horax, 30-16. 

Shay Koehler, Who Cares? ALL-WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE F1rst Team 
Second Team 
Dava Newman. Oreos 

Mary Re1lly, Leather and Lace Beth Kreber. Pneumothorax 
Carne Luepke, We Am"t So Bad Gretchen Meyer. Pneumothorax 
Penny Epps, Oreos Laura Hanson. Negl1gence 
Clare Henry, Last Drool ... Uvulas Maureen Mo.. M1lota, Oreos 
Kathy Marnocha, Who Cares? 
'DRACULA' TEAM AWARD LADY HOOSIER AWARD TBA Betsy Dooley, Supply 
HOOSIER TEAM AWARD TrabaJO s F1ve Orphans 
its leading scorer, Bernard King, re­injured a sore right ankle just before the end of the first half and did not play the rest of the game. King had 11 points before leaving. 
L.A. 118, Portland 97 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) 

Kareem Abdul-Jabbar scored 32 
points and Earvin "Magic" Johnson 
had 18 assists yesterday to lead the 
Los Angeles Lakers to 118-97 victory 
over Portland in the opening game 
of their National Basketball Associa­
tion playoff series. 
The second game of the best-of­

seven Western Conference 
semifinals will be tomorrow night at 
the Lakers' Forum. 
Abdui-Jabbar scored 15 of his 

points in the first quarter as the 
Lakers jumped out to a 29-12 lead in 
the first eight minutes. 
The Trail Blazers never were able 

to get closer than four points after­
ward. 
Mychal ThomJ?SOn paced 

Portland with 22 points and Calvin 
Natt added 21. 

L____ 


--~..--~--~---,.-··-~·-~---..--....... ·--~-.o-· ·:------........._.....,._~----~----·---· 
The Observer Monday, April25, 1983-page 12 
Irish on roll 

Tennis team destroys EMU, 8-1 
byPete Smith ofDouble Decker Oreo Cookie inyesterday'sAll-Star Game at theACC. DeAngelis' Gold team won, 23-21 in overtime. ~oo'f:. 
Representing the Law School. 
Tequtla... 15 

Executive Committee and Chairman 
Bad to...

of the Board of McNeil Consumer Products. 
What: 

Presentation covering the Campaign to 
s.w.c.. Even-less ... 
Save Tylenol. 
When: 

Tuesday, Apri/26 at 3PM. 
Where: 

The CCE Auditorium -located on the first floor. 
Summet Job Fall Thtough? 
836 
PHONE PORTAGE AVE. 232 ·1883 
PIZZA 
I 
MONDAY.. SPECIAL! * 16" PIZZA WITH 1/TEM 
* YOUR CHOICE OF ONE TOPPING $G.go
SOUTHWESTERN CO. students 
I* 32 oz. PEPSI
earned an average take-home of $3100.00 last summmer. 
*FREE DELIVERY 
Ask: Marty Ellis Steve Barron 

*DELIVERY STARTS AT 4PM
Kenny Hoefer Andy Phillips Pat Maloney 

Due to a tremendous response to last week's ad, we've geared up to serve youCan you relocate? Do you have the entire summer better. If our delivery is not to your door in 45 mins. or less, we'll give you an add' I free? Campus interviews: 1:00,4:00, &7:00PM $1 off your pizza. (Time is determined from point of pizza verification.) 
Mon. & Tues. in room 20 LaFortune (serious inquiries only) · 
NO COUPON NEEDED-OFFER NOT GOOD WITH OTHER COUPONS 

By MARK B. JOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
As most of Notre Dame's popula­tion spent yesterday afternoon be­hind the ACC entranced by a bouncing basketball, very few people were aware ofthe Irish men's tennis triumph just yards away at the Courtney Tennis Center, but for the few present, Coach Tom Fallon's men put on quite an exhibition to down Eastern Michigan, 8-1, earning their fifth straight victory. 
Despite cold and gusting winds, the Irish kept control of their balls throughout the day as they out­played the Hurons in almost every . aspect of the game. The victory was number 22 for Notre Dame, and it came during one of the team's most consistent and best played weeks of tennis this season. 
"This was a really tough match, and even a letdown for us, because it was hard for us to get up for a team like this after playing as we have against teams of much higher calibre earlier in the week," commented senior captain Mark McMahon. 
McMahon, playing with added in­The Obse-rver/john Wachter centive from the fan section, led the 
X-'f..\\

Paul DeAngelis ofUS, the 1983 Mr. Bookstore selection, takes it 
'2;1\0~ 

fficGann fot ffiayot 
Double...



ll!l.ll....vote may3td 
~----"' 4122 BK 9 6:15 

"Committed to uphold student rights•••" 
Macn s... 4123 ACC 5:00 
Macri's... 

4124 ACC 1:30

''The Fight That SavedTylenol" 
Who: 

Macn·s... 21 
McDavid Collins-Member of the 
singles competition with a strong 6­1, 6-1 defeat of Bob Miller in his No. 1 singles match. 
Earning win number two for the Irish was Freshmen Joe Nelligan, who dominated his No. 3 opponent, Mike Psarouthakis, 6-3, 6-0, while sophomore John Novatny, playing No. 4, taught a 6-3, 6-3 lesson to Huron Kreg Kinne!. 
Eastern Michigan finally cracked the scoreboard when No. 5 Jim Nugent slipped by freshmen Doug Pratt, 6-4, 7-5, but Notre Dame junior Tim Noonan averted a loss at No. 6, as he engineered an amazing comeback to nip John Bondea, 6-2, 4-6,7-5. 
After nine games in the third set, sophomore Mike Gibbons found himself on the short side of the score, but his methodically played shots wore down his No. 2 counter­part, Bjorn Saljemar, and when Gib­bons broke Saljemar's serve in the tiebreaker, he not only won his match 6-2, 3-6,7-5, but also clinched the team victory. 
Although they already had the team win netted, Fallon's players poured it on in the doubles competi­tion as they finished in a flurry and 
4/23 ACC 6:00 John Shoe... 
swept all three matches. 
Starting off the doubles play were 
McMahon and fellow senior Paulld­
zik who kept a six-match winning 
streak alive at their No. 2 spot by 
blasting Psarouthakis and Nugent, 6­
2,6-4. 
• Allowing Gibbons a much needed rest, sophomore Tom Pratt teamed with classmate Paul Najarian at No. 3 doubles, and the pair breezed by Kinne! and Bondea, 6-2, 6-1. 
After getting behind early and losing the first set, the No. 1 Irish team of Noonan and Novatny got tired of playing around and finished off Miller and Saljemar, as well as the Hurons, 4-6, 6-1, 6-3. 
"They(the Irish) really played well today and all week," satisfiedly stated Fallon. 
Notre Dame will finish its regular season and homestand this Wednes­day at 2:30 p.m. at Courtney Tennis Center, as a competitive Bowling Green squad is the only obstacle be­tween the Irish and a 23-9 season record. 
"We are on a roll right now, and we hope to continue and finish the season on a high," remarked Gib­bons. 


The Observer Monday, April25, 1983-page 13 
Lose to Denison 





Irish lose chance for MLA title 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
"We knew it was going to be our toughest two games back-to-back of the season and that it would giv t e us the opportunity to peak at the right time." 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team did not quite peak as high as Coach Rich O'Leary hoped. though, as it dropped a pair ofgames on the road to Wooster and Denison. The losses finished offany Irish hopes for a Mid­west Lacrosse Association cham­pionship as they evened the Notre Dame MLA record at 4-4 with only two league games remaining. 
But, while the loss to Wooster on Thursday was the loss that officially took the t Irish out ofthe MLA race, it was the defeat at the hands of Denison, a team that, at the begin­ning of the season, was picked to be the best team in the Midwest, that was the most frustrating ofthe trip. 
Notre Dame matched its hosts goal for goal until the final minutes of the game. However, when Denison scored a goal with two minutes left, it could not come up with a goal to tie the score. 
The Denison game was also the second consecutive game that the Irish had failed to hold a lead. In the Wooster game, they had taken an early lead which quickly melted before the first half was over. Against Wooster, they took the lead in the first half and held it until the last quarter. Then, just as quickly they lost it, too. 
"At the beginning of the fourth quarter, we had kind of a letdown," said O'Leary. "They kept getting op­portunity after opportunity, and scored on a few ofthem. 
"We just seemed to lose some in­tensity. But it's hard to keep the in­tensity you need for the entire game. You know that you'll let down at some time during the game and make a few mistakes. Unfortunately, we made a lot of mistakes at once. 
"Inexperience is still respon­sible," he continued. "I know it's near the end of the year and we should be past that -and we aren't making as many individual mistakes as before -hut the team as a whole is making too many mistakes." 
The mistakes erased a 9-8 Notre Dame lead after three quarters and gave Denison a 10-9 lead with time running out. The Irish were finally able to get back on the scoreboard with three and a half minutes remaining to tie the score, but Denison answered a minute and a half later with what turned out to be the winning goal. 
At the time, though, the Denison lead looked about as stable as the earlier Notre Dame lead had proven to be. The Irish had a lot ofchances to score, but could not get the ball into the net. 
"We had some of our best oppor­tunities of the game in the last couple minutes," explained O'Leary. "But their goalie was outstanding.· He even made a stop without his stick. He blocked the shot with his arm." 
The performance by the Denison goalie overshadowed a fine perfor­mance by the Notre Dame goalie, Rob Simpson. Simpson stopped 18 Denison shots, including 13 in the second half. He gave up only one more goal than his counterpart, eyen though Denison outshot the Irish, 48-40. 
Dan Pace and justin Driscoll led Notre Dame on tilt: other end of the field as they both scored three goals. Bob Trocchi, Kevin Smith, Steve Pearsall, Mike Quinn, and joe Franklin also contributed to the scoring. 
Scoring was the name of the game on Thursday when the Irish visited Wooster. a team that has been the surprise of the season. The tina! score was 22-I6. More than I00 shots were taken in the game and the 38 goals was the most ever in a Notre Dame game. 
The key was the second and third quarters which saw Wooster rebound from a Notre Dame attack that blistered the best goalie in the MLA. 
"We made him (the Wooster goalie) look real bad," said O'Leary. "Their coach thought it was over when we started scoring on him, but they had a big second and third quar­ter." 
Wooster scored I5 goals in the two middle quarters to put the game out of reach. ..... 
"The defense was just terrible," explained O'Leary who is one win short of I00 for his career. "They kept getting open in front of the crease. 
"Again our clearing broke down and they were able to take the broken clear and score off it." 
The two losses force the Irish to 

win their last two games of the season against Oberlin and Ashland to reach . 500. 
Other than this goal, however, the team has little to shoot for. There is an exhibition on Wednesday against a "great" Chicago Lacrosse Club team at 7:30 on Cartier Field and two MLA games against weak Ober­lin and Ashland teams. 
IS HERE ... STUDENT MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION LIVING ON CAMPUS*CAN PICK UP THEIR EXCHANGE CARDS AND PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS ON APRIL 26, 27, OR 28 FROM 4 TO 7PM. JUST FOLLOW THE SCHEDULE LISTED BELOW: If You Live In Pick Your Card Up At Date: When you pick up your If You Live In Pick Your Card Up At Date: Keenan StanfordAlumni Apr. 27Alumni Apr. 26 Exchange Card, register Lewis LewisBadin Apr. 26Walsh Apr. 26 fora FREE Lyons LyonsB. Philips Apr.27Farley Apr. 26 APPLE lie Morrissey MorrisseyCavanaugh Apr.28Zahm Apr. 26 Personal Computer Pangborn PangbornCarroll Apr. 27Carroll Apr. 28 Drawing to be held in May. Pasquerilta E. Pasqueritta W.Oilton Apr.27Ditton Apr. 28 Pasquerilta W. Pasqueritta W. Farley Apr. 27Farley Apr. 26 St. Edwards SorinFisher Apr.27Pangborn Apr. 27 NOTRE DAME Stanford StanfordFlanner Apr. 27Flanner Apr. 27 CREDIT UNION Sorin SorinGrace Apr. 27Grace Apr. 28 Walsh WalshHolyCross Apr. 26HolyCross Apr. 26 0 Zahm ...._ ZahmHoward Apr. 26Morrissey Apr. 28 St. Mary~s LeMan's ADr.27 Get cash and perform financial transactions anytime-with The Exchange. *Students living off campus will be mailed their Exchange Cards.  

TM Observer/John \'\'achier 

Larry Cucu/ic ofMacri's Preferred Stock tjps a shot by Brian En­right ofTequila White Lightning away in Macri's Bookstore title victory yesterday. Enright, a second team all-Bookstore selection, was named winner ofthe Dave Huffman Golden Hatchet Award, asbefouled nine times in Macri's win.jeffBiumb's titlegamestory headlines ourBookstore coverage beginning on the back page. 
... 
.. 
.. 

------. ~ -~~-_..___ ------------. ---------~~---------~-~----~-------­
• 
The Observer Monday, April25, 1983-page 14 

• 
.. ,· 

ByJUDY McNAMARA 
Saint Mary's !>ports Editor 
Saint Mary's lost a pair of games yesterday, as Division I Butler Uni­versity won 12-1 and 4-2 in a softball doubleheader at SMC. 
Butler held the Belles to three hits on the entire afternoon as Barb Skin­ner, who was an all-American on the Bulldogs' Division II women's bas­ketball team, was the key to BU's outstanding afternoon. 
Barb Theiss was the Belles of­fense, getting the only Saint Mary's hit. Julie Kreigher took the loss, but Annie Day took over in the fifth in­ning of the opener. 
"All we really wanted was to get some hits," said Saini Mary's coach Scott Beisel. "Playing a team that is a step up from you is a good ex­perience. But I won't say that the first game wasn't bad." 
Saint Mary's did better in the nightcap, losing 4-2. First baseman Theiss got the only hits for SMC, lining a double and a home run. With the Belles threatening in the sixth, Butler put in Skinner as a reliever to shut the door, retiring two straight. 
"Our defense was much better," said Beisel. "We came off the first 
Spec1al to the Observer 
game loss real well." 

Dava Newman, a first team all-Bookstore selection, drives for a 
The losing pitcher for Saint Mary's 

bucket for e1•entual champion past Kathy Flick of runner-up 
was Kathy Logsdon, with Mary Bay-

Pneumothorax. The Oreos won the title with a 21-13 win. SeeMike Sullivan's story on the back page. 
Bayless no-hits ND 



Butler beats SMC in twin bill 
less coming in the fourth inning, put­ting in four good frames for the Belles. 
"It was just one of those days," said Beisel. "I just want to look for­ward to the next outing." 
The Belles next match, against Manchester Tuesday, should go a long way in determining Saint Mary's chances to defend its state small-college championship. 
"There's no way to tell about a state bid at this point," said Beisel. "We've just gotta win the rest of 'em." 
The Belies faced Notre Dame's club team Saturday in a renewal of the "Shuttle Series." 
Mary Bayless tossed a no-hitter in 
the first game as SMC won, 3-1. Bay-
less walked only four. while striking out three to up her record to 2-2. Losing pitcher joanne Swieciak walked two and K'd one. 
Teresa McGinnis' double, Elaine Suess' single, Tracie Bowman's single, Logsdon's pair of singles and Rose Anderson's single paced a SMC rally that saw the Belles slice the Irish lead from 11-2 to 11-9 in the 
second  game,  which Saint  Mary's  
lost.  
Winning  pitcher  Lynne  Harris  

walked one and struck out two. Losing pitcher Annie Day walked no one and picked up a strikeout. Harris had a single and a double for the winning Irish women and they picked up another double. 

Wadkins keeps par, wins MONY event 
CARLSBAD, Calif. (AP) -Lanny Wadkins, struggling over the final four holes, salvaged a round of par 72 yesterday and won the MONY­Tournament of Champions for the second straight year. 
Wadkins finished with a 280 total, eight shots under par on the dif­ficult, 6,911-yard La Costa Country Club course. That was the same total 
The 1983 DOME is Here 
Distribution: 

Mon. and Tues. 11-4 pm 
First must show N.D. undergraduate 
I.D. at Stepan Courts• • • • • then pick up yearbook at truck in parking lot. 
SENIORS 
with 
National Direct Student Loans MUST have NDSL exit interview in Financial Aid Office FAILURE to do so may result in DIPLOMAS being withheld 

NOwtheOnlYreasoritotake · a traininEuropeisifyoucan'tdrive. 
Ifyou're going to Europe this summe!t don't see it from a the dollar fluctuates, our rates won't. train. See it from behind the wheel of a Hertz car. It's less Hertz also saves you money when you're off the road. We expensive than a European rail pass. And it costs even less offer discounts at over 1,500 hotels in Europe, including when you share the ride with a friend. Plus with a Hertz car, Holiday Inns. Rooms start as low as $28 per person, double there's never a charge for mileage. occupancy ($17 in Britain), including breakfast, service 
By renting from Hertz, you can reserve your car just and tax. ~ 
7 days before renting, you don't have to pay in advance, and For full details, call your travel agent. Or call in many cases there's no drop off charge. And unlike some Hertz at l-800-654-3001. Ifyou think going by rent-a-car companies, Hertz's minimum renting age is 18 train is cheaper, you'll be pleased to discover years old. What's more, our prices are guaranteed in local 
you're way off THE"'1 WAY TO RENTA CAR. currency through March 31, 1984. So no matter how much track. Hert1. rems Fords and otMr firw cars 


Henz also has low weeklv rates on larger cars. Gas and optional charges arc not included. Hertz dollar rate shown al">ovc is based on ex.:hange rates as of .\1arch 23. 1983. 
that brought him the title last year 
and left him one shot in front of PGA 
champion Ray Floyd. 
The victory in this elite event that 
brings together only the winners of 
PGA tour titles from the past 12 
months, was worth S72,000 from 
the total purse of S400,000 and 
moved Wadkins into the season's 
money-winning lead with S229,048. 
It was Wadkins' second victory of 
the season -the other came at 
Greensboro three weeks ago -and 
enabled the former PGA titleholder 
to join Gil Morgan as the only mul­
tiple winners on the tour this season. 
Floyd had a closing 69, three un­der par and matching the best round of the final day. He finished at 281 and won S48,000. 
"I'm a little surprised," Floyd said. 
"I didn't think three under in the last 
round would give me any chance at 
all." 
But it did. 
He got his score on the board and 
watched as Wadkins played ·the 
18th. Wadkins needed a par to win 
it, and he got it in routine fashion, 
two-putting. 
Jay Haas, who holed out from the 
fairway for an eagle-two on the first 
hole, had a 73 and was third at 282. 
l•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••..,....,,,,,,,,,.. 
~ STUDENTS ~ i i .i LIVE IN THE CHICAGO AREA?~. iHOW ABOUT A SUMMERJOB?: 
~ 
l
£And a great one! We sell RADIO ! ADVERTISING nationwide by tele­Ephone from our Peterson Ave. officesi(6000 North!). Work days, or nights and ; Saturdays, in casual, comfortable sur­;roundings. The money is great! What's §the catch? You must be an above ave­i rage student; you've GOTIA be aggres­i ive; you must enjoy talking on the tele­i phone; and you must be willing to learn !call us now at (312) 878-0800. We'll eal! you right back to set up an inter­view date. If accepted you can lack up fa summer job now! i 
IPSJ Marhting Consultants Inc. iI 10 years of semc•to RADIO ~ I 
NOW JS THE TIME TO 
RESERVE A SUMMER JOB 
IN THE ARMY RESERVE 
Why should you think about a summer job 
n'ow? Because the Army Reserve has many 
dilterent skills available, including skills in 
fields like medical technology, engineering, 
and electronics. By joining the Reserve now, 
you can secure skill training. And you won't 
have lo wait until summer lo start earning 
money. 
The Reserve will guarentee you summer skUitraining up to nine months in advance, if you qualify. You attend monthly weekend meetings at your local Reserve unit, and after the first three months you start earning over S73a month. 
Then, this summer and next you take your basic and skill training full· time. And you get full · time Army pay of over $1,100 each sum· mer. 
If you'd like to get a head start on the sum· mer job hunting season, call the number be­low. 
SGT Hamilton 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE 
i . 

lheJJ~r================================== 






~~4()l~~===========================M=o=n=d=a=y,=A=p=ri=l=25=,=1=9=83===p=a=g=e==15
Bloom County
,....;.-------, 
THIN({,) AREN'T LOOKING @X' 
CXfffi£M£N ...
0/ER ffi'1H£ MFAOOIJ PARlY 
H6ADQUAimR5 ...'FACT, MIW 15 BRINGING DISASTROUS N€WS 10 1J.tf, Pl<£511i£N11At. CAMffii&N 
COMMITTe€ RIGHT NOW .•• 



IT'S 11 Nt(E WRY OF 
MHJt-16 YOO WT INTO THE COlD WORlD IIloNE... 
... .YJ5T TO 111/KE/?0011 f()f ~E. 5/tJT·NOSED fRtSII· 
MEN! 
/ 

1H€~'5 WHAT MORE:. 1511? 
I 


Berke Breathed 
Jeb Cashin 
Glif'oJS WHf/T .' IV£ flll!(K£D 
FF?£t.lfMIIN YEfiR. !'l;fi!N! I't1 (:I)IN6 TO EE 1fT II 
NOTJf£ 't>fii'IE Fofftlt:( . . 
Photius 
Campus 
•12:15 
p.m.-Workshop, "Incentive Systems as Policy Instruments for Equitable Development: A Research Agenda," Prof. Denis Goulet, Library Lounge 

•1:15 
p.m. -Physics Lecture, "From Dirac to t'Hooft-Polyakov," Dr. Chris Hill, 401 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•4 
p.m. -Naval ROTC Awards, Library Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Laser· Induced Infrared Flourescence: The Early Years," Prof. George W. Flynn, 123 NI)H 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "A Smooth Manifold Homeomorphic to Euclidean 4-spaces," Prof. Mic­hael H. Freedman, 226 CCMB t0e6 p.m.-MeetingoftheStudentSenate, 124 Hayes Healy 

•6 
p.m. -SMC New Student Orientation Meeting, for all those interested in working on the Orientation Committee, Carroll Hall 

•7 
and 9 p.m. -FUm, "Star Trek Blooper Show," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Ski Team, 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night FUm Series, "Mean Streets," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•7 
p.m.-Art Exhibit, john Dowd paintings, and Marc Dejong ceramics, Isis Gallery 

•7:15 
p.m. -FUm, "On the Beach," Center for Social Concerns, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Reflections On the New Church in Latin America," 122 Hayes Healy 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night FUm Series, "Tales From the Vienna Woods," Annenberg Auditorium, 52 


T.V. Tonight 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 8:30 
9p.m. 10p.m. 10:30p.m. llp.m. 
16 Love Sidney 22 Archie Bunker's Place 28 That's Incredible 16 Family Ties 22 Foot in the Door 16 Monday Night Movie 22 M•A•s•H 28 Monday Night Movie 22 One-Day At A Time 22 Cagney and lacey 16 NewsCenter 16 
• 
22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Trapper john and Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 28 The Last Word 
The Far Side 

"How cute, Earl ... The kids have built a little fort in the backyard." 
_\ 
... 
.. 
.. 
• 

rl/£ li/CJ<Y I!Ui+lS . 


The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
4/25/83

All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 29 Inflatable 1 Ring gems craft 6 Unusual 33 Nick's wife 
10 Motor 34 Adversary 
eccentrics 35 -culpa 14 Call on 36 Waste 15 Aits: Fr. allowance 16 Theaters 37 "-Pyle" 
of old 38 Furnished 17 "And what's 39 Frigid -?" 40 Bushed 18 Swimmers' 41 Quechuan watchman 42 Lifesaving 20 Cousin to device Mae West 44 Roof 22 See eye to support 
eye 46 Layers 23 Nota -47 Cause of 24 Volcanic harm 
effluent 48 Graph 26 Have the 51 Diver's means for rope
Friday's Solution 

55 Certain rescuer 5a Wine 
measure 59 Zone 60 Melon 
throwaway 61 Making do, 
with "out" 62 Eft 63 -Trueheart 64 English 

25 Beyond range 26 Those against 27 Part of USAF 
28 Norse goddess of love 
29 Boundary 30 Catkin 31 Use an epee 
sand mounds 32 Cossack 
DOWN 1 Racetrack 2 Java almond 3 That 4 Bankhead 
film 5 Eleanor-, 
opera star 6 Moonvalley 7 Landed 8 Ump 9 Native of: 
suff. 10 Mountain lion 11 Jewish month 12 Nothing more than 13 Marquis de­
19 Judge's order keeper 
21 Finale 24 Pep up 34 Croissants 37 Narrow 

valley 38 Exact 40 Assists 
with a 
crime 43 Warning 44 British 
defense arm 45 Anointed, old style 
47 Bustards and buz· zards 
48 Thane's 
group 49 Take on 50 Some 51 Eye part 52 Have-for 53 Hawaiian 
state bird 54 Work units 56 Good 
painting 57 Strive 

•''lhn Belushi, Tim Matheson. John Vernon Donald Sutherland, Vera Bloom Universal; Directed by John Landis . Color; Rated R;C; 109 minutes . 

._________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
-


Monday, April25, 1983-page 16

S~orts 

Macri's prefers balance, wins Bookstore XII title 
... 
ByJEFF BLUMB That was to be the last time that were a little flat. We were hoping for Sports Writer Tequila was in the game. a little luck today." Two short jumpers from Cuculic, "I don't think the wind changed 
It's said that good teamwork wins a made Toohill free throw and a un­the outcome," said Dziedzic. "It af­games; and so it was with yesterday's contested fast break lay-up by fected the play but not the outcome. final game of Bookstore XII. Cuculic maded the score 15-9 and I was surprised that Tequila made it 
Macri's Preferred Stock, a team ended the game for all intents and to the finals." The shooting per­composed entirely of Notre Dame purposes. centages showed the affects of the law students, showed just over A tight, pressing defense triggered gusty winds. Macri's shot 36 percent 3,000 fans behind the ACC how true this series of points that turned out while Tequila could manage but 26 that sports cliche can be. to be the difference in the game. percent. 
Using a variety of teamwork, "They handled it the best of anyone For Macri's in the game, Absher balanced scoring, and aggressive we played," remarked Absher of the and Sweeney had three apiece, Don team defense. the sixth seeded ferocius defense played by Macri's Strumillo had four, Cuculic, who Macri's toppled fifth seed Tequila throughout the tournament. played for Army, had five, and White Lightning, 21-15, to emerge "The fast breaks (offsteals) were a Toohill added six. as the Bookstore champions. big difference in the game," said Enright lead the way for Tequila 
"The best team won the tourna­Toohill. with 7 points and 12 rebounds while ment -there's no doubt about it," An assortment of free throws and Mike Conlin also contributed four said Commissioner Dave Dziedzic field goals were exchanged by the for the losers. afterward. "Macri's played excellent two teams until the score was at 20-On their way to the Bookstore team basketball and by looking at 15. Championship, Macri's knocked off their scoring one can see how Cuculic and Joe Sweeney both top seed Double Decker Oreo balanced they were." failed in attempts to win the game Cookie, 21-19, Friday. "That gave us 
Balance won the title for Macri's. from the line before Sweeney a lot of confidence," said Macri's Although Steve Toohill scored six stepped up for another chance at the Sweeney, who was the Tournament points to lead the way for Macri's, no MVP. one had less than three points for the "It juM goes to show that no group winners. of all-Americans can beat a team,"
Bookstore XH 

Tequila jumped out to a quick 2-0 continued Sweeney. "We didn't 
on a Mike Conlin running hook and have the fancy dunks but we won." The Observer/Paul Cifarelli 
an unbelievable scoop lay-up by Lou Macri's then beat Tim Andree and Nanni. That lead turned into 3-1 Bad to the Bone, 21-15, Saturday in Thisfoul shot byjoe Sweeney clinched the Bookstore Basketball before Macri's tied it at three on Lar­game winner. Sweeney hit nothing the semi-finals. final for Macri's Preferred Stock as Macri's defeated Tequila White Lightning, 21-15, behind theACC.jeffBlumb wraps up the tourna­
ry Cuculic's driving lay-up. but net to send the large law school See MACRI'S, page 10 
ment at left.
Macri's continued their run ofsix contingent into euphoria. unanswered points, finally making it Sunny weather would have made 7-3 on Don Strumillo's short turn the game's playing conditions ideal Blue-Gold next week around jumper. The teams then had it not been for 25 MPH winds. As traded baskets before Dan Absher a result, both teams had some dif­sank a free throw to give Macri's an ficulty in hitting their shots from the 
Scrimmage marked by fumbles 
11-8 halftime lead. outside. 
Brian Enright of Tequila, on his "It (the wind) affected our shots a By ED DOMANSKY Murphy along with juniors Mike field goal attempt by senior Mike way to a 7-for-17 shooting perfor­lot," said Tequila's quick guard, Lou Sports Writer Golic, Tim Marshall and Tom Rog­Johnston came up short: mance, tipped in a rebound to start Nanni. "But they were a better­geman each chipped in with five Throughout the afternoon the the second halfand close the deficit organized and better team. They With the completion ofSaturday's stops. defense came up with its share of to 11-9. shot better than us today and we intrasquad scrimmage, the Notre Despite the fact that the hitting good plays. 
Dame football team readies itself to was less crisp than it had been "The defense did a good job," said enter into the final week of spring during previous scrimmages, an un­Faust. "They shut down the offense
~s"oY'~"''' 

practice for 1983. After five weeks of usually large number of fumbles when they had to." ~pO workouts, which began on March were forced by the defense. The of­Senior cornerback and co-captain 26, the spring season will culminate fense lost the ball seven times, and Stacey Toran, along with strong 
this Saturday with the 53rd Annual safetyJoe Johnson also continued to Blue-Gold game to be held in the perform well for the defense. 
Best of Bookstore 
Spring Football '83
stadium. On the offensive side of the MR. BOOKSTORE Saturday's scrimmage was charac­ledger, a total of six touchdowns Paul DeAngelis, US terized by several things. The were scored during the two-hour positives, though extant in number, five times, the defense recovered. scrimmage. Probably one of the were punctuated by intermittent Larkin led this category also, gather­most encouraging facts for Faust and
MOSTVALUABLEPLAYER 
fumbles and less crisp hitting than in ing in two of the loose balls. offensive coordinator Ron Hudson
Joe Sweeney, Macri's Preferred Stock 
the past two scrimmages. One series in which a strong was that the six TDs were scored by 
The afternoon's defensive effort defensive effort was put forth saw a variety of players, different players was led by 6-1, 209-pound junior the No. I offense with senior Blair worked with different units. linebacker Mike Larkin, who made Kiel at quarterback, start a drive at One ofthe most impressive scores
ALL-BOOKSTORE 
seven tackles. Former Moeller its own ten-yard line, only to be of the day came as the Irish were teammate and strongside linebacker stopped several plays later at the 41­See THIRD, page 10
Rick Naylor added six. Senior Tom yard line ofthe defense as a 55 yard
First Team Third Team Jack Burke, Bad to the Bone Bob Karnes. B. 0. ana we Mike Conlin, Tequila White Bouncmg Balls Women-s Bookstore Lightmng Bob Michael, Brick Throwers Ed HJerpe, Even-less Jack­M1ke Muldowney, Rous­sonless Five seau's Noble Savages 
Matvey paces Oreos to c~own 
Glenn Packard. NEBO"s IV Lou Nanni, Tequ1la Wh1te By MIKE SULLIVAN ot ntgn-percentage shots. Oreos her five baskets while Meyer cou_ld John Stem. Even-less L1ghtmng A · s relied on the inside game of Matvey only manage two. Meanwh1le
sststant ports Editor ' . 
Jackonless F1ve Pete Sm1th, Double Decker · Penny Epps, and Maureen "Mo" Kreher, Day, and Kathy Fhck, the Oreo Cook1e When the Women's Milota, and the fastbreaking of Dava lone Notre Dame woman on the
1983

Second Team Bookstore tournament finally came Newman. Pneumothorax balanced team, could only manage six baskets down to the last game, it was Notre its attack on the inside offense ofVan in 22 attempts.
Dan Absher, Macn·s ALL-FAUST TEAM 
Ort and Gretchen Meyer and the On the other end, Oreos started 
Preferred Stock Mansel Carter, Double Deck­Dame against Saint Mary's. The · ' 
outside shooting of Beth Kreher and off slow but eventually got its of-Notre Darne team was led by a star
Brian Ennght, Tequila White er Oreo Cookie 
Annl·e Day fense going. Matvey picked up at-varsity basketball player and so was ·
L1ghtnmg Kevin Gnffith, Play at Your 
Saint Mary's. And when the game It was the team that shot better most all ofher game-high six baskets John Frierot, Love and the Own R1sk that eventually came out on top. A on rebound baskets. Lisa Johnson 
ended, it wasn't hard to see why the

Shooting Stars  Scott Grooms, Cash Amberg  Notre Dame varsity doesn't have too  strong wind that seems to be part of  played her best game of the tourna- 
Rick  Louthan.  Armed  and  and the Country Boys  many  problems  with  the  Saint  the ACC court made outside shoot­ ment,  stealing  a  number  of  
Dangerous Do11 Strumillo. Preferred Stock  Macn's  Mike Shiner, B1gger, Better. Smoother, Drunker and Quicker Than Average  Mary's varsity. Shari Matvey's Oreos used a strong second half to pull away from  ing very hazardous, and it effected Pneumothorax much more than Wh·t1 0 dom· t"ng0 1reos. e reos was ma  Pneumothorax passes and penetrat­ing the defense, and Newman broke free for a number of fastbreak bas­kets.  
GOLDEN HATCHET Brian Enright, Tequila  Daane Sp1elmaker, Tequ1la White Lightn1ng HOOSIER AWARD John Rudser, Smok1n· IRON MAN  Missy Van Ort's Pneumothorax and roll to a 21-1 3 win yesterday. Oreos, using its large height advantage and a tough zone defense, breezed through the tournament, winning every game by at least seven baskets. The championship game matched the top two shooting teams in the  both the offensive and defensive boards and getting many baskets from within five feet, Pneumothorax was forced to rely on shots from far­ther outside. Intimidating defense by the Oreos was the reason. Countless times Van Ort and Meyer would try to go inside and  Still, it wasn't until the second half that Oreos pulled away. Foul shoot­ing and tough play by Van Ort, the same things that allowed it to get past Last Drool . . . Uvulas in the semifinals, kept Pneumothorax in the game. Day and Meyer sunk the  
field. Both Oreos and Pneumot­borax had advanced on the strength  have their shots blocked by Matvey and Epps. Van G;t worked hard for  See OREOS, page 10  





