Parasite-page 5 

VOL XVIII, NO. 12 tlw intkpt.:nllt·Pt '>tullnH nt:w~papcr -.en ing ll()lfl d~mH· ~md· -.aim man·-. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13 , 1983 
U.S. diplomat expelled from Soviet Union allegedly mistreated 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The State 
Department disclosed yesterday 
that two Soviet diplomats were ex­
pelled from the United States last 
month as alleged spies, and charged 
that a U.S. diplomat expelled yester­
day from the Soviet Union had been 
mistreated. 
The two Soviets were identified as Yuri Petrovich Leonov. an assistant air attache at the embassy here, and Anatoly Yevgenyevich Skripko, an­other attache at the embassy. Both were declared persona non grata 
"for engaging in espionage," said Alan Romberg, a State Depar~ment spokesman. 
Skripko was declared persona non grata on Aug. 17. The action against Leonov was taken two days later. 
A State Department official, who spoke only on the condition that he not be identified, said the decision to announce the expulsions was made because the Soviets disclosed the expulsion ofa U.S. diplomat, Lon David Augustenborg, on spying charges. 
Augustenborg was vice consul at the U.S. consulate in Leningrad. His wife Denise also was declared per­sona non grata. 
Also, the expulsions of the two Soviet envoys preceded the Soviet downing of a South Korean airliner carrying 269 people on Sept. 1, which has caused a serious deterioration in Soviet-American relations and prompted worldwide criticism of the Soviet Union. 
Romberg said the United States is "vigorously protesting the physical mistreatment" of Augustenborg. He refused to elaborate on the matter, and went no furtber than to say that Augustenborg was a junior officer at the consulate. 
The U.S. official who spoke on the condition that he remain anonymous said Skripko was caught handing money to someone for a classified document he had just rrceived. 
Another official said the other per­son, whose identity was unknown to Skripko, was an agent of the FBI, which had entered the case "at an early stage." 
Leonov was said to have been ap­prehended carrying a briefcase containing classified documents. 
One official said Leonov was the 
same diplomat who attempted in 
September 1981 to obtain informa­
tion on MX missile deployment 
plans from Rep. David F. Emery, R­
Maine. 
The official said Leonov left the 
country temporarily after the Emery 
incident but later returned. 
A newspaper clipping 
The Oh~Lncr/\tikt· \ol.t)' 
Some guys will do anything to get theirpicture in the paper. .fofJy O'Brien probably didn't an­ticipate tbjs much attention, though, when hegot his bair cut at tbe Uniz,ersity Stylists yesterday. 
Core requirements being re-evaluated 
By ELIZABETH FLOR 
News Staff 
Student Body Vice President Peg­gy Prevoznik, a member of the Uni­versity Curriculum Committee, said that the committee is re-examining the University's core requirements for graduation at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
The committee, with members from each ofthe colleges in the Uni­versity, is examining the necessity of some requirements as well as the structure ofcourses. 
Headed by Dr. Timothy O'Meara, provost, and Vice Chairman Father Edward A. Malloy, the committee is considering "adding a mandatory computer course for freshmen or sophomores," Student Body Presi­dent Brian Callaghan said. 
Callaghan, a member of the Com­mittee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol, reported on that commit­tee's examination ofthe discrepancy between Indiana state law and Uni­versity policies on drinking. 
Indiana state law sets the drinking age at 21, but University policies al­low regulated underage drinking. Callaghan believes that policies prohibiting students from drinking 
·alcoholic beverages on campus will 
lead to increased drinking off­
campus. 
The issue will be discussed by the Hall President's Council and the 
see SENATE page 4 


Congress returns in anti-Soviet mood after summer long recess 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The destruction of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 had Congress in a bitter, anti-Soviet mood as it returned yesterday from a five-week summer recess, and leaders ofboth parties agreed that President Reagan is now far more likely to get his way on defense issues. 
In the Senate, Republican and Democratic leaders united behind a resolution condemning the Soviet Uni­on for "a cold-blooded attack on a commercial airliner," and "a barbaric action" which "will rank among one of the most infamous and reprehensible acts of aviation history." 
The resolution is likely to be approved unanimously tomorrow. Similar action is probable in the Democratic House later in the week. 
The Senate version urges further U.S. sanctions against the Soviet Union unless it apologizes for shoot­ing down the Boeing 747 jumbo jet and pays compensa­tion to the families of all 269 people who perished, including Rep. Larry McDonald, D-Ga., and 60 other Americans.· 
Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr., R-Tenn., said, "Over the longer term, we can hope that the combina­tion of universal outrage and the various sanctions we can impose will convince the leadership of the Soviet Union that murdering innocent civilians does little to satisfy their paranoid obsession with security ..." 
A co-sponsor of the resolution, Minority Leader Robert C. Byrd, D-W. Va., said the attack on the Korean aircraft had left Congress "shocked ... offended and som­ber." 

In the House, more than a score ofcongressmen took the floor at the first opportunity to express their outrage at the Soviets, not only for the attack but :\fos­cow's refusal to allow other nations to search the area where the plane went down. ·"' 
"This Stalinistic act may be the most vivid demonstra­tion of the Soviet mentality which rules the nation and which has designs on subjugating the rest ofthe world," said Rep. fke Skelton, D-Mo. 
Rep. Gerald B. Solomon, R-N.Y., said shooting down the plane demonstrates that "the Soviet brand of com­munism is nothing but liars and cheaters and human barbarian,s that have no respect for human rights and no respect for human life itself." 
The anti-Soviet mood extended to a host of foreign affairs issues in both chambers, including financing of the MX intercontinental nuclear missile, the role of .\ta.rines in Lebanon, and Reagan's anti-leftist policies in Central America. 
Baker said the plane issue will "deepen concern about the dangers of Soviet conduct in the world and will strengthen the president's request for a stronger military." 
But Baker said there may also be new pressures for arms control talks with the Soviet Union because of fresh realization of the risks of nuclear war. 
' ......, 
\ . "" ;· ~. . .· 
I I

The Observer Tuesday, September 13 , 1983 -page 2 
Two Notre Dame students wen: arrested last week outside Kings Cellar Liquor Store:, 1621 ~outh Bend Ave:., for violating Indiana liquor laws. ·one: student. a 21-ycar-old, was charged with furnishing an I H-ycar-old freshman alcoholic beverages. The I H-year-old was charged with liquor law violations. Police reported seeing the 21-year-old haml the: other studc:nt a brown paper sack containing alcohol. Police said the alcohol was loaded into a vehicle owned by the 21-ycar-old. -The OIJsen•er 
About 170 record albums were stolen from a < irat·c IIall resident during the first week ofschool, hut there arc still no kads in the: case, according to Grace Rc:ctor Father David Noone:. The record collc:ction, which contained nearly 40 rare rock albums of the 1970s, was taken from outside: the studc:nt's door in the early morning hours of Aug. ~I. A reward for return or information leading to the return has hcen posted. A list ofthe albums taken is on Grace's main bulletin hoard. Anyone with informati0n should call Noom· at 2.~9-';';60. -The OIJsen•er 
Gilbert F. Schaefer. t<nmdc:r and presittc:nt or <iii 
Schac:fc:r Distributor Inc., of lktroit. has c:ndowed a S I million 
proft-ssorship in c:conomics at Notrt· Dame. The holdc:r of this chair 
will he a specialist in world monetary systems. In announcing the 
gilt. Father Tht·odore llt-shurgh. l nin-r,ity Presidc:nt. said. "The: 
profc:ssorship will c:nhant't' the l"ni\ er'ity's scholarship in a tield of 
great importance to modern socictr. will alkct generations of stu­
dents, and will strengthen the Department of Economics. which has 
no t·ndowed chairholder in its ranks." A former president of the 
Notrt· Dame Club of lktroit, Schaefer is a 192'; Notre Dame: alumnus 
who sponsort·d the tirst radio broadcast of Notre Dame football to 
Detroit -an event which kd to ~otre Dame games being carried 
throughout the world. -The 0/Jsl!rl'er 
Allen County, Indiana residents will soon he: able to pay their property taxes with a credit card -thanks to an agree­ment worked out between county offkials and hanks. Allen County Tn..asurer Linda K. Bloom says the plan -believed to bt· the tirst of its kind in the state -willlwgin t kt. I 0. She says the county's seven hanks have agreed to accept propnty tax payments for holders with \1astcrCard or Visa credit earth. "This way, if people don't have the cash to pay their taxes, we get our money quicker," \1s. Bloom said, pointing out that the plan gives property owners the opportunity to spread out their payments rathc:r than writing a large: check. "Somc:hody may just nc:c:d 50 days to gc:t the: money," she said. Thomas A. Edwards, dirc:ctor ot counties and townships for the State: Board ofTax Commissioners. said Allc:n is apparcntl'l':.!ht: J.l.rrt,c<lU,lllY in tht· state to dt·vc:lop the payment plan. The: plan also has benefits for the hanks. said William 1 o. Day. the: county's chief deputy trt·asurer. Ill' pointed out thl' hank' will be: able: to recc:ivc: inrc:rest on tht· charges tor taxpayn' ,,.1: 'don\ want to get hehind on thc:ir tax p.tyments. -AI' 
In the mid-1960s, llrl'WStl'r II. Shaw.Jr. recalls, he was a long-hairt·d singer and rhythm gtutarist 111 a rock 'n' roll band who "tort· around anti raisctl hell" on ;1 motorcycle:. But on Oct. 2H. Shaw, .~H. will hl<tst into orbit !rom Kentwdy Space Cc:ntcr in Florida as pilot of the Columbia on the ninth space: shuttle: mission. Shaw. a natin· ofCass City. \1ich .. left his musical carc:cr hc:hind in 1969 after earning a masta's degrc:t· in enginc:ering mc:chanics at the University of Wisconsin at \1adison. "The: Apollo program was just getting startc:d, and the draft board said thc:y weren't going to defer me any longer," Shaw said in a wn·kend telephone intervic:w from his home: in Tc:xas. "I dtTided that ratht·r than go into the Army. I'd join the Air Force: voluntarily, bt·cause that way Icould tly." Fly he did, winning a tlstful of trophies in tlight school. thc:n a chcstful of mc:dals during two combat tours ot ~outheast Asia. Columbia is to he commanded by .fohn Young. who has llown more in space than any othc:r Amnican. and the !light's misswn specialist is to be Robert A.R. l';trkn. "You're n~1t really an a'tronaut until vou th." Shaw said. "That's mv tkllnition. If vou ask ~:\SA. thev'll tc:ll vou I'm an astronaut" -.-tl' 
The largest giftnng1ven to a women's organization ­a $_',million confc:rcnee centn-has been dedic~tc:d with the hc:lp of lormer tlrst lady Rosalynn Cartc:r. The Woodstock Conference Ct·ntcr in Illinois was donated by tht· Chicago-based Scheinfcld Foundation to become the tirst "think tank" for women. said Erma <intlt-r. co-tinmdn of tht· N;1tional Forum for Women. The dedic:J­tion Sunday included an address by ."'rs. Carter, a talk by historian <;c:rda l.c:rnc:r and performances by womc:n artists and musicians. ­
AI' 
Partly sunny and cool today. High in mid and upper 60s. Fair and cool tonight. Low in mid to uppn ,10s. Partly sunny and plt-asant tomorrow. lligh in mid ami upper 60s. -AI' 



What, me worry? 
Feeling jittery? 

It's not quite the bc:ginning of the year anymore, but you probably haven't really shifted into school-mode yc:t either. Perhaps the summer memories arc having a hard time fading and you're just not in the mood for 
differential calculus. And Y 0 u'rc w 0 rricd· 

Stress is a fact of college life. Stereotypical images of carefree undergrad years aside, in reality tension is an unavoidable and serious product of these years. Cram­ming to tinish War and Peace before your 9 a.m. or struggling to complete last week's lah write-up is bound to result in a certain amount ofanxiety. 
There is an incredible amount ofstress related to col­lege, particularly at such competitive schools as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Right now, before you've really adjusted to the 18-hour days and prior to the first wave of tests, worry is probably rising o t n your list of priorities. 
We've all heard that worrying never helped any­thing, but then such cliches 


aren't any great comfort rcalizc:d how much time either. thc:y spc:nd on trivial ac­Although you oftc:n can't tivities that they really don't 
detect it. everyone in col­enjoy. lege suffers a certain amount • Realize there: is such a of Mrcss. In tact. the updcr­thing as studying too much. cover worrier is often much 
.\lost studies recommend worst· off than the blatant 
two or three hours a wc:c:k stress freak. for c:ach hour spent in the: The best way to deal with classroom. Being able to stress is to recognize it and detail the obscure tloral im­
deal with it. The odds arc: agery of 18th century British 
Composition Editor....... Tom ( -t6 down) Composition Assistant .. Dave ( 1 across) Typesetters ............................ Tracy and Ted Veu.•s Editor........................ ...... Vic Copv Editor ........................ Wild .\tan \tare Sports Copy Editor............... .... Rookie )elf Editorials Layout ............ Ken ( transft'r to 
Thurs) 
\'cience Layout... ..................... ... Tom VfJ Dav Editor............. ....................... Dave 
A.d Design...  ......Jeannie  
Pboto~mphet·.........  .... \like \lay  
Staff Artist  .. \1e~an  

Guest Appearances AI(T.I. )Nova~.A tishy ~mdling pizza, general hoard, nlitorial hoot rd. E. B. part two, mommie and daddy \1t·< •. and Kevin (You thou!(ht the late mghb wert.' ovt:r) I can't get no satist:tc­tion 
TheOb~ervar (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Frtday and on home football Saturdays, except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObMrvar IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per ~ear 1$15 per semester) by writfn~A. Obearvar. P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Ob~erver IS a member of 
The Anocl8tad Preas. All 
reproduc11on nghts are reserved 
Margaret Fosmoe 
Managing Editor 
1nside Tuesday 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
whole time you're watching that rerun of"Lavcrnc and Shirley." in the hack of your mind you're probably thinking about homework anyv.·ay. Sure, you may not be up to date on "All My Children," but think of all the time you'll hav~. Pretty soon you won't even remember what Wink Martindale looked like and, moveover, you won't care. 
•And it's not only TV. Ifyou really can't come to grips with the pressure, keep a written record of your time for one week. Then add up the time and calculate the 
percentage spent with each activity. Then set your prionttes. Most students would be surprised if they 
you won't rid yourself of the collegiate variety until someone hands you a sheepskin on a day in May. 

In case you're fast becom­ing a likely candidate to replace Robert Young on the Sanka commc1cials, below arc a few ways of recognizing and dealing with college stress: 
•Since 
a ton ofuntinishcd homework is the best stress catalyst. the best thing to do is not to let yourself get behind in the tirst place. But it's probablv too late tiJr this advice. so it should he moditied to thts: catch up and don't let yourself get behind again. Walking into class prepared docs wonders for reducing high blood pressure:. 

•Some 
form ofexercise is the best way to relax. While hanging out that late English essay may seem top priority, hitting a tennis hall, bouncing a haskethall or taking a dive at the Rock may help too. Just because Notre Oamc doesn't consider physical education worth giving class credit for doesn't mean it should he forgot­ten in the name ofacademics. 

•Giving 
up television. perhaps the ultimate sacritice for the collc:gc student, gives you a lot more: time. The 


literature: isn't going to mat­ter that much on the tina!. 
•Take some courses just for fun. Learn something about architecture, art or 
tilm history while you're here:. Not only docs this make you a more weii-roundcd person, hut it gives you a break from your more tompctitivc intense major classes. Just because it won't add anything to your resume doesn't mean a class is worthless. 
•\'<'hen 
dealing with the pressure: ofrequired course,. keep your career goal in mind. Accc:pting that the course wiii help you in the long run might make it more bearable. 

•Recognize 
the value: of a weekend. Saturdays and Sundays weren't created to give you uninterrupted time to worry. lJse the weekend to get offthe treadmill. While there arc det1nitc stress-reducing bcnet1ts to get­ting some of your work done on the wc:ckends. do something diff-erent too. Just varying your schedule on weekends makes things a little easic:r during the week. 


The next time you tind yourself biting your nails or snapping pencils in two, recognize your worric:~ and try to deal constructively with the sttuation. 
And relax. 

r----------------~
~~The_Qhs_erYer_ 
I INFLATION I
( I GOIYOUI I I BLOOD I
I BOILING? I 
I We can help relieve II some of that pressure! I 
I HOW?wewillpayyou II up to $16 CASH Per week for your lime. I I 1
It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfyI reclining chairs while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. I 
I You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your 11 second donation within the same week... AND we will give you a I free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. 
I PLUS I
I I
We Will Give You an Additional 
I $41f you bring this ad with you. 11 (offer applicable to first time donars only!) I I 1
For more information call

I 234·601 0 or come by515 Lincolnway West I 
1 Bring your I.D. 
.-'"'""-"Aflm1CAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 1 
A National Concern Dellicated to Extending the Lives ot Others 1I Tues and Sat 8am-5pm 1I Wed and Fri 9arn-5pm ... 
~---------------­

The Observer Tuesday, September 13, 1983-page 3 
Mortar shells slam into Marine positions at Beirut airport 
Associated Press 

BEIRUT, Lebanon -.\1.ortar shells slammed into li.S. Marine positions at the Beirut airport last night, wounding three of the American peacekeepers, a \1arine spokesman said. 
Maj. Robert jordan said two ofthe wounded were evacuated to the helicopter carrier Iwo Jima anchored offshore. One suffered a shrapnel wound in the left hand and the other had a dislocated shoulder, he said. 

The third \Iarine was treated on the compound for a minor shrapnel wound in the leg, he said. jordan refused to speculate about who fired the mortars, but both Shiite .\1.oslem militias and leftist Druse militias hold positions that would be in range. 
The attack. which began after sun· set and lasted about an hour, came more than 12 hours after Marines exchanged small arms and machine gun fire with snipers firing from areas largely under the control of the Shiite militia. Amal. 
"Some guy would just pop up and let off a few rounds," Jordan said. "But the heaviest concentration was out of Hay el-Sellum." 
Hay el-Sellum, a crowded, poor neighborhood south of Beirut, is a stronghold of the Shiite militia. 
Jordan said a U.S. Navy task force with an additional 2,000 Marines had arrived off the Lebanese coast. President Reagan dispatched the task force to the area after two Marines were killed last month. Two more Marines have been killed since then. 
Lebanese army spokesman Capt. Youssef Atrissi said Amal gunmen in the Beirut neighborhood of Chiyah fired mortars at the Lebanese army. 
He said the army responded with "all kinds of weapons," including tanks and machine guns, and destroyed an unspecified number of 

Amal  bunkers.  There  were  no  
reports ofcasualties.  
In Lebanon's central  mountains,  

leftist Druse militias battled the Lebanese army at the army's stron­

ghold of Souk ei-Gharb, a Christian town which controls the major 
route from the mountains to Beirut. The army said its gunners blasted .1 Druse convoy carrying weapons, causing enormous explosions. 
Souk ei-Gharb is the Lebanese army's only stronghold on the mountain ridge overlooking Beirut, and if the Druse took it they would command the area and the Beirut· Damascus highway. 
The Druse claim their forces have overrun about 80 percent of the Chouf and Aley mountain regions since the latest round of fighting he· tween leftist Druse and rightist C'lristian militias began Sept. 4, when Israeli forces withdrew from the area. 
The Druse claim the Lebanese army supports the right-wing militias of the Christian Phalange Party and have resisted attempts by the army to take over positions vacated by the Israelis. 

U.S. demands con1pensation for Americans killed in airliner attack 
Associated Press State Department spokesman Alan 
Romberg said the United States 
The United States demanded com-would "continue to press the Soviets pensation from the Soviet U T nion ye to meet their dear obligation under terday for the 61 Americans killed in international law to pay compensa· the Soviet destruction of a South tion to both the United States and Korean airliner as a pilots' boycott of Korea." flights to \1.oscow took hold in The pilots' ban. begun Friday in Europe and NATO governments Britain, was joined by pilots in Italy. prepared to bar the Soviet airlines the Netherlands. Norway. Denmark. from their airports. Finland and Sweden. cancelling I~ 
Meanwhile, a third body believed ofthe 27 weekly !lights into \1.oscow to be from the wreckage of the from NATO countries. . downed jumbo jet was found on Pilots of Air France, which Japan's northernmost coast, and the operates six flights a week, were to Kyodo news agency reported the join Tuesday, and the West German plane did not crash for more that 12 Lufthansa, which operates the 
minutes after one or more of its four remaining seven, said these would 
engines was hit by a 
heat-seeking •r••..·---------------, 
missile from a Soviet tighter. I :;r·s..., 7Vnt·gQ·IIY oftltt /1t-I%til) I 
The U.S. demand for compensa-\l.J-4p... U W \U.--tl.-. .... tion was presented in Washington I I hyJohrtH.Kelley,anactingassistant --. · Wewelco~neBack Haircut, Shampoo, secretary of state, to Oleg Sokolov, I all fa( ulty 8 I 0 &C d· · I second-ranking member of the I and students ow ry, on 1t1on 
Soviet Embassy staff, but Sokolov ~ Reg. $15 I refused to accept it. I 54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. N $8 50 I 
Kelley also tried to give Sokolov a lAcross from Martin's on St. Rd.23 OW . WITH COUPON note on behalf of the South Korean Tues, Wed, Sat 8:30 · 5:30 H • I government demanding compensa-I alrcut only $6 c:~:NI
Thur, Fri 8:30·8:30 tion for its citizens who were killed, 1:272·0312 277 ·1691 S6011erappllestoMALE~tronsonly.
but Sokolov rejected it also. 
Advanced programming · -power in a pocket size. 
Take on e\'~o•ryday problems in science, math or engineering with the shirt-pocket-size HP-llC. 
• Dedicated scientific functions for quick answers to computations 

• Easy-to-learn programming with up to 203 program lines 
• Handy program editing tools 
• Continuous Memory saves your programs and data 
HP-llC Slim-line Programmable Scientific ....... . 
Get a 10% discount when you present your student I.D. Other HP calculators available. 
. r•( I

Georgetown Center 52303 Emmons Road 277-4972 

he halted Thursday. 
But the government of neutral Switzerland delayed deciding whether Swissair pilots could suspend their four weekly flights to the Soviet capital, and Finland's state railway began adding extra passen­ger cars to its two daily trains to the Soviet llnion. 
But four members of the alliance -France. (;reece. Spain and Turkey -refused to take part. And the Danish Pilots' Association proposed that the pilots' noycott hr rt'duced to two weeks also. It said a two· month boycott "primarily will hurt We~tern airlines. and it could jt'op­ardize Soviet route allocations." 
Ha~r must be wuhed day of cut. • 

I I The I
r---------------------------------------,I 
I I 
! HITMAN ! 
~ 0 
ctl Pre-recorded Music Service for your C/) Wedding-Reunion-Dance-Party -g Anniversary. ct1 Dance non stop to original 
Q. 
SO's, 60's. 70's and SO's hits (.) 
Reasonable rates 


i i
I I
THOM JEGIER 288-1354 

I I 
·---------------------------------------~ 
If you are an 
a;.;v~id~ff.a'n~1lll
of THE FAR SID~ cartoons, you'll have to have Gary Larson's newest collection ... 
And if you missed his first. best seller, you'd better be sure you have 
r-------------
Piease send me: __ copies of The Far Side at $3.95 eactt __ copies of Beyond The Far Side at $3.95 each. Total amount enclosed 
rtnclude $1 for postage and handling per book orderedJ 
Mail to, Far Side BOO"'' C/O t:1e ObsAr"B.I 4400 Johnson Drlk Fairw3y, Kan. 66205 Make checks payable tc.. Universal Press Syndicate. 
0 Check 0 Money Order 0 VISA 
0 MalferCard 
Namo 
Addrtu 
City ----------­
State _____Zip----
Credil <ord It 
Mosler(ard Interbank It Ex:pir. Date 
Signature 01 on credit cord 

Attention Sophomores 

Semester 
~~~)Informational .~ Meeting 

Arts and Letters 
LONDON PROGRAM 
Thursday, Sept. 15, ~983 
7:30 pm Library Aud. 
The Observer Tuesday, September ·13 , 1983 -page 4 
• • • Senate 
continued from page 1 
Board of Trustees before tht· year 
t•mb and a definite polit-y will ht· 
made. 
Hepresentatives oftht· Nestle Cor­
poration will visit the campus on 
~l·pt. l.2 to dhcuss their "new posi­
tion'' on tht· distribution of infant 
f(mnula in Third World countries. 
Callaghan said that the company 
dm·s not wish to hold large meetings 
or talk to fa<-·ulty members, hut 
prl'fers small, informal discussions 
with Mudents. 
D<-·pending on Nestle's position, Callaghan said, the Notre Dame t·omrnunity could revote on the Nestle boycott. Students and faculty voted to boycott all Nestle products by a 2-1 margin two years ago he­cause of the company's marketing policies of infant formula in Third World countries. 
"I would hatt· to drop the boycott if Nestk's stand has not changed. But if it has, I would hatt· to continue it," Callaghan said. 
Art·presentative of \1CI will he on 
campus two days next week and will 

offer free three-minute phone calls from a booth in the Lafortune Stu­dent Center. \1CI mainly interests off-campus students, Callaghan said, he<-·ause they are the only students who may have push-button phones. 
The University, however, will he installing push button phones in dormitories over Christmas. Student (iovernment will resuggest MCI op­tions before Christmas break, so that interested students can order the phone st·rvice for next semester. 
Because of student complaints "urging the faculty to get more per­sonally involved with students," Cal­laghan said, a letter will he sent to all 
faculty members. Some students voiced the opinion that, although some faculty do make an effort, most professors only know one or two students well, usually ones who are having difficulty in the class. Stu­dents suggested spending more time with professors outside ofclass, par­ticipating in activities such as week­ly lunches with different students each week, parties and barbecues. 
The letter should he mailed to t:tculty by the end of the week. Cal­laghan stated that the prompting can only help, even though some faculty respond that they are teachers and not entertainers. 
Student Senator Rob Bertino said that a change machine is now located in the lobby ofSouth Dining Hall. Although Bertino had asked for a machine in Badin Hall's laundry room, the University did not want such a large amount of money to he left unattended. A coin-operated detergent machine, however, will he installed hy the end of the week. 
Bertino discovered that St. Mic­hael's Laundry Service is available to women on a cash and carry basis. If interest in this offer substantially in­creases, the laundry service will of­fer a pick-up service as well as accounts and laundry bags for women. Bertino will meet with the presidents of the women's dorms to discuss participation. 
The rectoresses of the women's 
dorms arc considering opening the 
laundry rooms in their dorms to 
usage by men one day a week. 
,. "' 
.. 
... 
... 
... 

•""' 1\1> 
.,.• ....'•'' 
.,.,. . ,...\,.,.. , 
;Ill 

Get to the answers faster. With theTI55--II. 
What you need to tackle the higher mathematics of a science or engineering cur­riculum are more functions ­more functions than a simple slide-rule calculator has. 
Enter the Tl-55-11, with 112 powerful functions. You can work faster and more accurately with the TI-55-11, because it's preprogrammed 
C>l98\ Tt'Xa\ lnscrun~nu 
to perform complex calcula­tions-like definite integrals, linear regression and hyper­bolics-at the touch of a button. And it can also be programmed to do repetitive problems without re-entering the entire formula. 
Included is the Calculator Decision-Making Sourcebook. It makes the process of using the Tl-55-11 even simpler, and shows you how to use all the power of the calculator. 

Get to the answers faster. Let a Tl-55-11 Jis show you how. ~ 
TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 




Priest delivers sermon on pl1ysical fitness 
Associated Press  "My  father  ate  a  lot  of  dairy  
products, like ice cream, that were  
MANKA TO,  Minn. -When the high in cholesterol," Flesner said in  

Rev. Walter Flesner donned a jog-an interview last week. Because his ging suit and ran down the aisle of father died at a relatively young age, his church to deliver a sermon on the 44-ycar-old Flesner said "there is physical fitness, he had in mind his a fear" that the same thing could father's death ofa heart attack at the happen to hira. age of 59. High blood cholesterol and high 
He also had in mind the Mankato blood pressure -condition~ relat­Heart-Health Program, a nine-year, ing to eating habits -and cigarette federally funded program in this smoking have been identified as southern Minnesota city that is tes-three risk factors that contribute ting a community approach to most to heart disease, the project's health education designed to rcouce directors note. the risks of heart attack and stroke. Nearly a fourth ofthe city's 60 rcs­
Flesner's jog in his Hilltop United taurants are taking part in the Methodist Church earlier this year program by offering special meals was one of the more colorful ex-approved by the program's amples of community involvement dietitians. since the project began in 1981. Nearly all of the city's super­
"There were a few people who markets and large groceries are were not sure it was the place to do taking part, offering the program's it," he said of the reaction from his brochures with tips on healthy startled congregation. "But when eating. The program's logo adorns 
they realized what the theme was, they accepted it." 

shelves containing low-fat or low­salt foods. But getting customers to buy those foods will take time, said Jim Davis, manager of Madsen's su­permarket and also a member of the program's board ofdirectors. 
Davis took advantage of the program's physical fitness tests and learned his own cholesterol level was "a step above average and that really surprised me." 
Businesses have taken part in a competition ro encourage employee fitness, and the program's otlkials held a quit-smoking contest with the winner getting a vacation for four to Disney World. 
The effectiveness of the program in reducing the risk and rates of heart attack will he measurl:'d after four yt·ar~. ~aid Hick ~wanson, t·x­ecutive director of the: program. But he added that "the final proof will come at year nine." 
Mankato, a city of ~ 1 ,:\6H, and neighboring North Mankato, population 8.0-1, arc the tit rst cities chosen for the heart project, fund<"d by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute and administered through the {lniversity of Minnesota School of Public Health. 
Jt-We are looking for .., : a year's worth of ~ Jt-men for a MEN OF +t N.D. CALENDAR.~
* Ifyou are one of + ~ these 12 or knolL one ! Jt-of these 12, please + :. submit a photo : Jt-name, campus il ~ address, and phone : Jt-number to Room 203 +! Walsh Hall by Friday~ 
~ September 16, 1983: 
l**************** 
STUDENT AID 
II takes more than brains to go to college. It takes money. For tuition, room and board. and books. 
T •, Army College Fund is designed to help you get that money for college while serving your country. 
If you qualify, you can join the Army College Fund when you join the Army. For every dollar you put In, Uncle Sam puts in five. Or more. 
So, after just two years in the Army, you can have up to $15,200 for college. After three years, up to $20,100. 
To get your free copy of the Army College Fund booklet, call or visit your local Army Recruiter It could be I he most important book you've ever read. 
SGT. Jones 234·4187 Call Collect 

ARMY. BEALL YOU CAN BE. 




--~---~--­
----------------------------------------, 




@Science 
Tuesday, September 13 , 1983 -page 5 
Encephalitis outbreak could become serious health hazard 
However, the parasite which occurs in humans is not being used; instead 


All those interested in helping out on 
researchers are experimenting with 
For first-time ministers: 
a model system. 
the 1984 Dome: 
The model is a filarial parasite 
Thursday, Sept. 15, 7:30PM 
common in gerbils. Ticks transmit the parasite in gerbils, whereas 
-layout -copy -photography 
Sacred Heart Church
mosquitoes and biting flies carry the disease in humans. Weinstein and his colleagues are trying to culture Please come to the Organizational Meeting the filaria in vitro (in culture), just 

Wednesday, September 14 
as scientists have done with microbial organism. In this way, they hope to learn more aout the 

Participation in one of these 
in the Dome office-3rd Door
filaria's life cycle. "We hope that the model system 

workshops is mandatory if you
LaFortune, 7:00 pm.
will be translatable to the human system," Weinstein said. "We have 

intend to be a eucharistic 
reason to expect that this will occur 
Any questions, call Jane at 6849
based on our work done previously 

minister this year!
with other filarial parasites." or Kate at 3097 Previous Notre Dame researchers 

By AMY STEPHAN 
. 
Science Writer 
EE£ 
cyc. /~ u.s.
/YI 


J Birds] 
ENDEMIC 
CYCLE 
Cult'seiq !felanl/n~ 
{Sw~m !1os vt'lo) 
The Eastern Equine Enrephalitis virus is main­tained in an endemic cycle between birds and Culiseta lie/anura in the swamps. Coquillettidia Perturbans can pick up the virus from birds and 
available tor horses, the vaccine it­self has a one percent mortality rate and is therefore too dangerous to be used on humans. Craig emphasizes,
Parasite research seeks protection 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE studied dog heartworm, a disease Science Writer transmitted by mosquitoes and in which the parasite lives in the heart 
Now that microbial infectious of a dog. Using it as a model system, diseases caused by bacteria and they found that it was possible to viruses are under control to a take the information and apply it to greater degree than in previous the human filaria. years, the importance ofparasitic in-Work done by Eileen Franke. for fections has increased. her doctoral dissertation involved 
The development of antibiotics growing in vitro a filarial parasite to and immunizations has enabled the young adult stage in chemically scientists to turn their attention defined media. Franke is the first to away from the microbial diseases accomplish this and her work was such as polio, cholera, and measles. recently reported inScience. Instead, protozoa and worm Much is already known about the parasites have come to the forefront filarial parasite. In one type offilaria, as the most important agents infect-the adults reproduce in the lymph ing humans and causing disease and glands ofhumans and from there the death. larvae move into the bloodstream. 
The three diseases of most con-The larvae stay there for many cern to researhers today are months without further develop­parasitic diseases which are ment, waiting for a mosquito to take protozoan or helminth (worm) in-a blood meal. fections. On a global basis, malaria, The number offilaria increases to schistosomiasis, and filariasis rank as a maximum level at about midnight the most important diseases, even (the mosquito is a night-biter) and taking into account the infectious decreases between morning and diseases. noon. The filaria is at this point with-
Both schistosomiasis and filariasis in the mosquito's stomach wall in or­are caused by parasites called bel-der to make its way to the flight minths, the latter being a filaria. In muscls. There it penetrates the cells the Department of Biology, under and becomes an intracellular the direction of Paul Weinstein, parasite. "We have had tremendous research is being conducted with problems attempting to reproduce filarial parasites. Researchers are this environment," Weinstein said. attempting to devise procedures The filaria then goes through and different types of media and molts and becomes a third stage in­physical-chemical conditions that fective larvae. It breaks out of the are appropriate for the development muscles and migrates to the biting of a parasite during its life cycle. 
We are "right in the middle of an encephalitis epidemic," according to Dr. George Craig. director of the Notre Dame vector biology laboratory. 
Ten cases of Eastern Equine En­cephalitis ( EEE) have been reported in horses in St. Joseph and Elkhart Counties during the past week. 
This is the first time since 1975 that EEE -a disease that usually af­fects horses, but can affect humans -has occurred in St. Joseph county. said Craig. A widespread epidemic of EEE took place in Michigan and pans ofnorthern Indiana in 1980.
EPIDEMIC 
Craig said there is no known cure for EEE and his department is "not doing much but keeping score." 
"There is very little we can do to
CYCLE 8 
stop it," said Craig, adding that he is "not prepared to recommend a spraying program at this time," be­cause there are not enough cases. If the number of cases increases, however, he will consider 
pass it on to men or horses. This transmission recommending such a program. For marks the end ofthe cycle, which usuaizy results now, Craig said he is "praying for in coma or death for the victim. snow." The mortality rate for EEE is 60-80 percent. Although a vaccine is 
a limb. the limb may become swol­len and distorted and this may hin­der the flow of lymph. This eventually leads to elephantiasis, a disease common in the tropics. 
a 
campus
Another kind of filaria results in 
blindness. This type of filaria lives 
miniStry
under the skin ofhumans. An inflam­matory reaction to the worm products produces nodules about the size of hens' eggs. If these nodules occur on the head or scalp, the larvae may migrate into the eye 
chamber, with the inflammatory reaction causing blindness. Filarial 
For returning ministers: blindness is common in parts of Central America and West Africa, 
Tuesday, Sept. 13, 9:30PM 
affecting millions of people in those regions. 
Sacred Heart Church 
1983 Eucharistic Ministry Workshops 
hollow reeds and breathe through 
these reeds like air tubes. 
"If we are right, it's a tough species to get rid of." said Craig. "The only way to destroy the larvae is to get rid of the cattails and other water reeds or drain the lakes and swamps where they live." 
The EEE virus is maintained in a cycle between birds and insects that inhabit a swamp or lake. These mosquitoes, culiseta me/anura. spend their entire lives in the swamp and do not infect humans or horses. The virus can be picked up by a co­quillettidia, if she bites a disease­carrying bird. Infected coquillettidia can then pass the disease on to men and horses. 
Craig, the George and Winnifred Clark professor of biology, said that every species of mosquito is down this year except for the coquillet­tidia. "This is not surprising," he said, "because they are not depend­en( on rainfall to breed." 
The symptoms ofEEE in horses in­clude: a stiff neck, loss oforientation and coordination, skygazing, and pawing the ground. A horse can die ofEEE in as little as 48 hours. 
Humans afflicted with EEE can ex­perience a stiff neck, disorientaion, fever, and pain all over, often leading to coma and death, said Craig. 
"Pharmaceutical companies are making no panicular effort to research this disease because there's no money in it," said Craig. Because several years can pass with no out­breaks of EEE in a particular area. Craig said it is difficult to obtain funds to research this disease. "How do you convince people of the economic value of a disease that didn't happen?" he asked. 
The Notre Dame vector biology laboratory is currently researching a different type of encephalitis, La Crosse. Craig said the laboratory does not plan to research EEE in the near future because "we have enough to do with La Crosse. We can only solve one problem at a time." 
mouth part of the mosquito. When the mosquito sucks blood, its mouthpart containing larvae is in­serted through the skin of humans. 
The worms are activated by the warmth and carbon dioxide con­centration. The worms then move to the skin surface. From there the larvae rapidly migrate down the hole made in the skin when the mosquito withdraws its mouthpart. Then the long series of migration and development begins again with­in the human. 
The consequence is that--the worms release substances to which the human becomes sensitive, resulting in an intense inflammatory response. If the condition occurs in however, that the disease is rare in humans. 
EEE is an explosive disease which usually occurs in outbreaks or epidemics, said Craig. It is difficult to predict where or when outbreaks will occur. 
Researchers are not sure what the vector (the insect which transmits the virus from one organism to an­other) is for EEE. Craig said that co­quillettidis perturbans, a type of mosquito which breeds in lakes or swamps where there are emergent reeds, is the current suspect. 
'!~i~ci~~;;.:·d~c~_o ~tudy:.
hecause 1t cannot J:-ie ra1sed m the lab," said Craig. Coquillettidis larvae attach themselves underwater to 

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, September 13 , 1983 -page 6 

Big ideas call for big functions. And you'll find them on the keys of every Hewlett-Packard calculator. 
The ln>-llC Scientific Programmable. 
Powerful functions, such as permu­tations and combinations, hyperbolics and a random-number generator, are all at your fingertips. And with help like that, you just might end up with your name on a theorem. 
The top-of-the-line HP-41. To give you an idea of the HP-41's 


Check your campus bookstore or any of the following dealers: 
Mishawaka South Bend Service Merchandise Co, Inc Fourway Computer 6502 Grape Road Products, Inc (219) 277-2311 52578 US 31 North 
(219) 277-7720 

capabilities, in an emergency it can help bring the NASA Space Shuttle back to earth. Without the aid of Mission Control. Imagine what it can do for you on a routine day. 
And it's just one of the many specialized HP calculators: the HP-lOC and HP-15C scientific programmables, the HP-12C financial calculator, and the HP-16C for computer programmers. 
So, go ahead. Get to the root of sophisticated problems-quickly­simply, with the help of a sophisticated 
General Microcomputer Georgetown Center 
52303 Emmons Rd (219) 277-4972 
tool. Get there with Hewlett-Packard. 
For the authorized HP dealer or HP sales office nearest you, call TOLL-FREE 800-547-3400 and ask for operator #13 M-F, 6a.m.-6p.m. Pacific Time. 
Personal computers and calculators for professionals on the move. 
Ff/o-HEWLETT 
~all PACKARD 
PG02332 
80 

MICHIGAN 
Benton Harbor Doubleday Bros & Co ·18898 South M-139 (616) 926-8293 

Tuesday, September 13, 1983-page 7 
Ground Zero: nuclear ombudsman? 
Last semester, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities conducted separate referenda in which the students of the two schools voted on a "unilateral nuclear freeze" resolution which would have added the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's institutions to the growing list of individuals and organizations which have decided to back such a freeze. Al­though I was in London at the time and very unaware ofevents back on campus, I was very 
Robert Lloyd Snyder Then midweek 
interested in, and somewhat surprised by, the results of the vote on this issue; moreover, I found the voting patterns which emerged from the data concerning the voting results in the individual halls somewhat confusing. In last year's referendum on the "freeze," it seems as if the men who participated in the vote ovenvhelmingly rejected the measure; at the same time, the majority of Notre Dame's women passed the resolution, and an even­greater proportion of Saint !\1ary's women supported the matter. 
There havt: been many explanations for "malc:/female" dichotomy which was evident from the voting rt:sults; some have perhaps too simplistically conjectured that the men who took part voted according to traditional "masculine" (i.e., agrcssive, macho) instincts, while the women voted according to tradi­tional"feminine" (i.e., passive, submissive) in­stincts. I do not care to speculate upon the reasons for the disparity between the male and female vote on this issue, but I think that the main cause of this phenomenon is an appalling lack of informed awareness on the part of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students on the subject of nuclear weapons. 
This semester, however, there will be a new organization on the two campuses whose sole concern is to act as an information source to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's concerning the realities of the nuclear dilemma. The name of the group is Ground Zero, and it is a non­affiliated, non-advisory nation-wide organiza­tion which seeks to raise the public consciousness on the facts and figures of all facets of nuclear war and weaponry. 
When I first became aware ofthe existence ofthis organization on this campus, I really did not know what to expect of this group. My past encounters with individuals associated with "peace groups" were usually bad remin· ders of the Sixties, a decade of which I have little recollection, and a period in our history which I feel bears little relation to the Eighties. Furthermore, I had felt that there was an implicit contradiction between the or­ganization's official "non-advisory" line and the very purpose for which the organization was formed; to raise public awareness on the imperative neccessity to control nuclear weapons throughout the world 
Last week, I met with Mike Brennan, a Notre Dame senior who is also the co-founder ofthe Notre Dame-Saint Mary's chapter of Ground Zero. Brennan was altogether different from what I had expected; articulate and non­rhetorical, he explained that the organiza­tion's main purpose was to present the facts concerning the nuclear problem to a Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community that is at 

best, uninformed, and at worst, apathetic. Af­
ter briefly discussing the origins ofthe nation­al organization, Brennan stressed that Ground Zero was a joint N.D.-S.M.C. organization, and that the founders ofthe campus chapter were mainly Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who had been involved in overseas studies or in internships in Washington D.C. Brennan was also aware that many people already thought that Ground Zero would be an off­shoot ot; or in some way linked to the "nuclear freeze" movement. He replied to these criticisms by responding that, while he could not account for the individual opinions of members of Ground Zero, Ground Zero will not take any type of policy stance on nuclear weapons, but will devote its efforts to acting as a "nuclear ombudsman" for its region. He hoped that by raising the awareness of in­
dividuals on the realities of nuclear arms, people would be able to form more intelligent opinions on the subject, and would hopefully see the imperative nature of this issue. I left the meeting with Brennan more confident in the non-advocacy nature of Grour..d Zero and more convinced that there is a legitimate need for such an organization in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. 
Ground Zero will have its first meeting 
tonight, Tuesday the 13th, in the Center for Social Concerns. I would urge all interested members ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities to attend the meeting. Ground Zero is certainly an organization which is overdue, and the reasons for its founding are among the most compelling that we can im­agine in the Nuclear Eighties. 

P. 0. BoxQ 
Tax credits 
Dear Editor. 
In the course ofhis tirade against tuition tax credits and plea l(>r "threatened' public schools (Sept. 2 ), Rand} l'ahs sa} s: "B} taking public monq and giving it back to parents of private school children. the l'edcral Govern­ment has put a drain on the reservoir offunds which could have been used to promote and upgrade public education. · 
What b this "public monq .. Mr. 1-ahs is talking about~ Is the mone} he earns on a sum­mer or otlwr job "public monq "? Obvious!} not. Except for legitimate tax and other deductions that mone} is his own. 'I hat por­tion of his income withheld or owed the IRS in taxes is public monq. But onI} that and no­thing more. 
I doni know. Mr. Fahs, if} ou arc married or 
not, hut t<>r the sakl· of the argument. let us 
assume }ou arc. and that }ou have three 
dependents, including } ourself. B} the Vt:f} 
fact that }OU have three dependents }OU will 
pa) less tax 1han } ou would if} ou were single 
and had the same income. 
If, because of }our dependents. ) ou paid 
~ 'iOO less in 1axes. would }ou sa) Ihat 
whatever ) ou spcnl that ~'iOO on was some­
thing the government bought for }OU' Or 
would }ou sa). more precise!), that ex­
penditure was) our personal purchase~ 
Mr. l'ahs is making the unwarran1cd as­sumption that all income belongs 10 the gon·rnment. which then permits the citizens to keep a portion of it. 
'J he whole: point oftuition tax credits is that 
thq cannot he considered either a govern­
ment subsid) or an expcnditurt· of public 
funds, bt:cause the mone) spent on tuition never belonged 10 the Federal Government in tht· tlrst place. "'.-'"'·"'>;,.,.· 
Second, Mr. bhs quotes several unnamed educators and concerned citizens to the eftect that "...tuition tax credits at the high school level onl} give a freedom of choice to the wealth}. In eftect, the} actuall} serve to sub­sidize the education ofmore atlluent people at the expense of the taxpa) er. · 
Since )OU write so S} mpathcticall) of these "concerned citizens... Mr. fahs,I presume )OU agree with their allegation_ A look at the facts concerning the affluence of private school parents might he instructive. 
I have, I believe, ;tlread} shown that no federal suhsid} exists for private school parents. But let us examine just how wealth) these "affluent" private school parents actual­
1) are. 
Well, 62 percent of these families make un­der l>2'i,OOO a ) car; near!) 46 percent earn less than ~20,000; 2-percent are under ~ 1S,OOO; and I I percent earn less than ~I 0,000_ 
Ah, ) ou sa), what about the ~H percent of private school htmilies with incomes over l>2'i,OOO' On!) 10 percent ofall private school families have incomes over ~SO,OOO , and the tuition tax credit plan proposed h} the Reagan Administration provides that the full credit would go onI} to t:tmilies with adjusted gross incomes under 540,000 , with no benetlts at all to those above the S'iO,OOO level. Actuall), the difference between incomes of private school parents vs. public school parents is very slight and is more than made up for h) 
the tuition which private parents present!} must pa). 
'I ou would do heuer, Mr. Fahs, to examine \Vh) so man) people have so long accepted the burden to pa) ing twice t<Jr education ­once in taxes for the public schools tht:) don·t use and again for the private school tuition. 

In m) opinion. tht:) have done so because the) perceived the public schools to he t:tiling them. I am not opposed to public schools, per se, having attended them tor all m) own elemcntaf} and secondaq years. All I ask (besides justice) of the public schools is that in higher education, but rather that it has failed to make improvements in its policies­whether administrative, residential or pedagogic -that other universities by and large have made. 
The policies that Ms. Fosmoe mentions ­rules governing parietals and alcohol posses­
they get back on the track. And one wa) of sion -are indeed representative of a source gelling back on -t+te track is·t~d'tr~'~timate concern: that, whereas the na­
inequity that has existed for so long. 
Charles w_ McCol/ester 
Notre Dame-behind times? 
Dear Editor: 
In her editorial of Sept<:mber 6, Margaret Fosmoe addresses the view, frequently voiced, thJt Notre Dame is "ten years behind the times." In reviewing the issues that stu­dents of 1973 considered important, she ren­ders us a valuable service. 
Nevertheless, I'm afraid that I cannot fathom the line of reasoning that takes her from her examples to her conclusion that "Notre Dame is not ten years behind the times." Presumably, the standard of com­parison to be used in such an assessment is not Notre Dame of 1973, but other American uni­versities of 1983. 
When Ms. Fosmoe says that "Notre Dame 
has made progress," she rightly recognizes 
that the phrase "behind the times" is used 
here as an evaluative judgement: the implica­
tion is not that Notre Dame fails to follow fads 
tion regards students eighteen and above as citizens responsible for and competent to handle their own affairs, the University seems to regard them as children in need of its dis­cipline and coercion. While most modern uni­versities institute only such restrictions on student life as are necesssry to ensure a civil and sociable dormitory community, Notre Dame also institutes rules restricting (for ex­ample) the conditions under which interac­tion between male and female students may take place (in the parietal rules and in the un­
availability ofcoeducational housing.) 
While I do not consider it "behind the times" in the negative sense for a college to wish its students spared the harmful effects of unwise sexual experiences, I do consider it misguided to ignore the great importance that being trusted to conduct one's own affairs plays in the process of maturation. I also think it "behind the times" in the negative sense to believe that the University has the right and responsibility to regulate the interactions of male and female students through coercion. 
Apparently, however, the students of Notre Dame have been absorbed in the myth or their own impotence and lack of self­determination. Otherwise, those who grumble about policies would instead be actively seeking dialogue with the administra­tion that could lead toward those policies' revision or repeal. 
Steven Horst 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief .......... _..... David Dziedzic Managing Editor ...... __ ..... Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .......... ____ Daniel O'Hare 
/Jox {!. N(•fre f)ame. I.'V -io55o (.?II)) .?j')-5303 Executive Editor. _. ___ ...... _.... Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas
!be Ohsert•er •~ 1he imkpcnllent ncw~paper published b\· the student~ of the Uni­News Editor .. __ ............. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen
n·rsit\· ol Notrl· Dame du Lac and Saint .'\1af}_.s College. It does not necessarilv reflect News Editor . ..... __ . __ ... ____ Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . . _...... Suzauue i.a Croix 
tht· poliucs of tht· administration of either ins-titution. The news b reported as al­Saint Mary's Editor . ..... ___ .. Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . ..... __ ...... Mark Miollo 
UJratel-v and as objecti\'el\' as pos'ihlc l n'ignell cditonab represent the opinon of a Features Editor . .......·__ . _.... Sarah Hamilton System Manager .... _.......... Kevin Williams 
majont.v of the Eduorial H;>.Jnl <:omrnentarit·s. lt-Ucr< an'dl-fft~ Inside Column present 
Photo Editor .. _..... ____ ... __ ... Scott Bower 
tht· ne~·s of tht·ir author' <:olumn space h a\ailablt· Ill all members ol the communitv. 
.\jmrts Editor.. ..... \1ichacl Sullivan .1nd tht· free exprt·,sion of ,·an·ing opinions on campus. through lt-ttt'f~. is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1%6 

Sports Briefs 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club will hold a meeting tomorrow night at..., p.m. in room 20 of LaFortune All in­terested faculty and students should ant:nd tl'e meeting or call AI Kane at 28~-6H2l) for mort: int<>rmation. -The Obsen•er 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hc meeting tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the social area of Howard Hall. Everyone is invitcd to attcnd. -The Obsen,er 
Football tryouts for walk-ons will be hcid 
today at 4 p.m. Those who would like to tryout should report to Joe Yonto's uftice in thc Football Office in the ACC. -The Obsen•er 
Tuesday, September 13 , 1983 -page 8 
The ND-SMC Ski Team will hold a short organiza­tional meeting tonight at ..,,~o p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theatcr. Everyone interested in racing should attend. -The Observer 
Mike Gann, standout dcfensivc tackle on the football tcam. will be one of the fcatured gucsts on Spcaking of Sports, tonight from 10 to II p.m. on WSND-A!\1 64. -The Obsen,er 
Students interested in competitive 
swimming are urged to attend an organizational meeting tomorn,._. in room 2I8 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Women will meet at 
4:50. while men will meet at -;,I 5. -The Observer 
The Observer sports department is looking for Saint Mary's students who are sincerely In­terested in writing about Saint Mary's athletics. If you are in­terested, call Mike at 239-5323 as soon as possible. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES •ping. ALL KINDS. 277-8534 after 5.30 F. All day wknds.  NEED EXTRA CASH? A bold NO student With hat s1ze 6-7/8 is requ1red for one week, Sept 19th-23rd. Hours Will be 4 ·30 to 6 30 even1ngs. You w111 be dressed 1n a 19th century Bnt1sh cavalry umform & act as a local po1ntlor THE ROYAL LANCER. Ha1rstyhng for men & women. Un•vers1ty CO'll'llOns (S. R. 23 between R1bordy's & Te'llpo FashiOn). For an 1nterv1ew call 272-7880 between 9:00 a'll & 8:00 p'll da•ly.  WANTED: So. Cal. tx. Call Ji'll colleC1· 703-456-6806. Keep lry•ng. I HAVE 4 MSU AND 2 PITT TICKETS, BUT I NEED USC INSTEAD. LErS TALK. CALL JERRY AT x17113 AFTER II. 1 11ckel (GA or student) needed lor MSU ga'lle. Call Sieve al277-0455.  Re1a11ves cO'lllng Ia see l~rsl N.D. ga'lle. I need 3 M.S.U.I>ckels. Call John al3187 Desperately need Penn Stale ga'lle liCk· els. Call Bnan al8795. Need 3 slud, 1 GA MSU tix, Please call Joe8257 HELP! NEED 2 GA TIXS FOR MICH STATE. CALL MIKE AT 1475.  WILL TRADE 2 MSU TICKETS FOR USC TICKETS. CALL BOB AT 3526. Need MSU slu & GA's. Call1695 I need 1 student t•cket lor MSU. Please call Ann al1342, late mghl1s best A hornbly burn! child needs 2 G.A. 'sand 1 sluden111ckel to the M.S.U. ga'lle. Please call 289·5379 il you wanllo 'llake a hor·  OMBUDSMAN lhe source ol all ca'Tlpu• Information returns to the NO carnpus on Wednesday Sepl 14 at 11 a'Tl There Will be a new look al OBUD lh1s year. and we are anx1ous to help you. Our numbers re'T1a1n the sa'lle 239·6283 and 239· 7799 to answer any quest1ons you rna y have on campus happen1ngs. L.A. GAL NEEDS 4 G.A.'s TO SEE NO BEAT USCI PLEASE-DESPERATE! call  
'PING AVAILABLE· 287·4082.  Need 4 MSU GAs, Pa11238  ribly defor'lled child very happy. Ask lor  Michelle 284-4138  
BABYSITTERS WANTED Occasionally  HAVE ANY EXTRA GA'S FOR MICHl·  Slick.  
)/SMC HAWAII CLUB ORGANIZA· ONAL MEETING I TODAY. 1FORTUNE BALLROOM . 7 00 P M . THERE, ALOHA p.s. bring dues  For Professor's Two Young Children. Near Ca'llpus. Call288-8428 Even10gs  Wanna 'llake a BIRTHDAY GIRL happy? I a'll DESPERATE lor one MSU student or GA ticket. For TOP SS Call FIFI No. 12711MMEDIATELY!!  GAN STATE? ROTCIE IS WILLING TO OFFER HIS VIRTUE FOR 1,2,3,0R 4 TICKETS. CALL X-1627 AND MAKE A PROPOSITION .  I NEED 1 GAFORM.S.U. WILLPAYTOP DOLLAR! CALL MIKE 1770.  Bed and Breakfast ·loolball weekends lor NO parents. Two (2) n1ght 'lllm'llu'll. 10 'll•ns. lro'll ca'llpus. 272-5840.  
>NG ISLAND. PITTSBURGH, AND .LTIMOAE CLUB PICNIC WEDNES­,y, SEPTEMBER 14. NEAR STEPAN  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE FROM SAGINAW MICH. AREA-FRI. 9116 DO YOU HAVE FRIENDS/FAMILY COMING  FOR SALE· 8 MSU IIXI Call Dave a1291­2853 after 5pm or Chip al284·5263.  NEED USC TIX WILL TRADE 2 MSU GA OR PAY BIG $CALL ROB 1193  Need MSU or USC TIX call Chas 1588 STILL NEED 2 TO 4 MSU GA'S,FOR FAMILY;CALL PAT AT 1185  Hu'llpy the Cat!!!! Humpy the CallIll  Humpy  !he  Cat!lll  
:NTER 4 30-6·30 l SMC WOMEN DISCOVER A MORE :AUTIFUL YOU! LEARN ABOUT A 'W SKill! CARE PRODUCT. FOR A lEE FACIAL CALL 277-5168 AFTER 5 4.  TO NO FOR MSU GAME? PLEASE CALL JOAN A S.A.P 277-7576. FOR-SALE  MeGA BUCKG! FOR MICH. ST. TICK­ETS DAVEX3451 Need 4 M.S.U. G.A.'s (2 and 2) Will Pay $50 for 2· 1850 NEED MSU GA. John 1768  Need 1, 2 or 3 GA tlxlor Mich. St. game and all home games. Please call Helen, SMC5501. NEED 2 USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6981 HELP! NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277·4309  I have 2 MSU GA's. I would like to trade for any other home game. Call Maureen al 4635. NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL 239·5313 OR 272·1723 ASK FOR  Are you 1n1eresled •n lutonng a South Bend child? II so j01n the NEIGHBOR­HOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM Transportation IS prov1ded and spectal events are planned. S>gn up 1n NO and SMC d1n1ng halls TODAY al lunch and dtnner.  
LOST/FOUND •ST-NO nng w>lh ln>lials P A.M. Dark 'Pie stone set 1n gold. Call Paul al 239·  FOR SALE: STEREO SYSTEM: NAD STEREO RECEIVER, NAD TURN­TABLE, AR SPEAKERS AND STEREO CABINET. CALL JIM OR ANN ANY EVENING BUT PLEASE NOT AFTER 10 P.M. 272-5588.  NEED USC GA's John 1768 Need 3 Msu·i;~ ·F·~·,;:;;iy ~am•ng from NJ. II you can help please call Deb at 3468. Desperate for 1 MSU stud. liCk. or GA. Money no object Call John No. 1003.  NEED MANY MSU GA'S. $$$$$$ CALL 1154 NEED MICHIGAN ST. STUDENT TICK­ETS. WILL TRADE OTHER GAMES. PAY CASH, BOTH, OR SELL MYSEL­FINTO INDENTURED SERVITUDE,  JANE HEALEY Young miss visiting from West Virginia Just got her first pair ol shoes. Now all she needs to make her lila complete Is a ticket (student) to the MICHIGAN STATE game. Call Kirk at 8765.  SIGN UP FOR NSHP TODA VI He was ne1lher MANNER beast FATE IS GREAT  
13, or al 277-4851 $40 reward. no 9st10ns asked ~t glasses 1n a two tone brown case 1f md please call J1'll 7816  FOR SALE NEW 13" SYLVANIA COLOR TV'S. 4 LEFT. 277-6580 AT 17911 ST. RD. 23 JUST EAST OF CAMPUS. $225 EA.  MICHIGAN STATE GA tickets needed!!!! Call Andy al3676. I NEED 2 USC TIX. W/TRADE 2 MSU GA'S FOR 2 USC TIX. CALL 284·5532.  CALL CHUCK OR RON AT X3376 WILL TRADE TWO MICHIGAN STATE GA'S FOR NAVY GA'S OR WILL TAKE BEST OFFER CALL 8981 BETWEEN 4  Will trade lor 2 GA's or sludenii!XIo MIChi­gan Slate. Offenng cash and/or keys Ia a '76 P1n1o (lust kidding).  Any type of FILM for only $.50. Call 1312 for more rnlormatton. Is anyone worthy ol be•ng •n EE 3111? One rather thinks lhal JJ Uhran lh10ks  
SSING YOUR MANNERS? Walch The )Server! :WARD Lost NO R1ng ·84--Biue stone· st wh1le mov1ng 1nto D1llon. st11l 1n nng x. KEN 1801 tlpl She's gone 'llad! My poor room ale, •arona D1N1cola. has lost her lovely, SIC black. no-lnlls. plashc sunglasses It have a sliver colored cha1n anached them and she JUSt can't go on w1thout '"''(I guess she sort a hked !he'll) II you d these rather base 1ook10g cheap 1gs. PLEASE call her (4432) and lei her ow! Thanks alol! k'll ,ST Small. green. sp~ral-edged 5­:Jject notebook, somewhere 1n Math 1ld10g. II found please call Jess a1 234­ Portable TV B/W, good cond•l•on $30 277·2543 CHEAP! 5x6fi. navy rug $20 Call 284· 5490 CHEAP!!! 15x5ft. be>ge rug $25 CALL 284·5494 POP MACHINE FOR SALE $95 255· 9507 FOOTBALL EQUIPMENT REAL CHEAP-MIKE 1780 ENDAD I CAN TUNE-UP YOUR U.S. OR IM· PORT CAR. 5 YEARS EXPER. $20.00 plus parts. call JAM a11586.  Need 3-6 MSU vs NO lb tickets. Call 616)699-7272 or (day) KORBULY/ GRAF off1ce· 233-2119 I need 10 M.S.U. 11ckels Pnce no objecl! Call Doug al288-9059 NEED THREE GA TIX FOR MICHIGAN ST. GAME. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7033 NEED TWO MICHIGAN STATE TICK­ETS! WILL PAY OR TRADE TICKETS. CALL LAURA AT 2854. CAN'T WAIT TO HERE FROM YOU I Need 2 M1ch Sl GA's. Call Ralph 1105 HELPII I need 4 GA's 1o ANY hO'lle game. II you can help. call Kev.n a1 283-3121 or 239­ AND6PM. .............. Desperately need 2 MSU GA's. Call M1ke •8708/8709 HELP 1!1 NEED 1·4 MSU STUDENT (OR GA) TIX. $$. PLEASE. PLEASE CALL 8425. NEED USC TIX. PLEASE CALL 8584. DESPERATELY NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR MICH ST. CALL CHRIS OR DON AT 1657. WARNING I Selling your lwo exira M1chi· gan Slate lickels WILL be a MONEY MAKING EXPERIENCE!! CALL PAT 87621or deta•ls FOR SALE stud season 11c goes lo best  PERSONALS CAMBRIDGE DIET PLAN 'lleelings. personalized cousehng, FREE! Ca'llbndge Center. 256-5400. Chp lh•s ad for savrngs! EATING DISORDERS (Bulimia & Anorexia Nervosa) disrupt thousands ol lives each year. The Counaellng & Psychological Services Center of Notre Dame will be conducting a 10­week structured group lor persons with these disorders. For lnlorma­tlon/regrstratron, contact Or. Danrel Ryb1ck1 al239·7336. LIMITED ENROLL· MENT.  not ..and !hey asked Descartes .. Do you agree?" He replied,"l lh1nk nol .. ," and then he ceased to ext st. CHAPS, EELS. & OF· HERE'S TO A GREAT WEEKEND!WE'RE ON OUR HEADS) I WAS REALLY SHAKING FOR A WHILE THERE, DAVE. BUT SOMETIMES YOU JUST HAVE TO SAY. WHAT THE HECK (I LAUGH AT IT) THANKS. SH. PS-FA RIGHT PARTY-PARTY-PARTY Sodom and Gomorrah 1408 South Bend Ave. Thlo Friday nite ALL are welcome to come out and prepare lor Mlch St. PARTY· PARTY-PARTY  
33, eh?  5303.  offer al272·1128 after 6:00  ...............1  
•ST 6 KEYS ON A I<'.NIFE KEYCHAIN ,LL MIKE AT 8677  Need 4 MSU IIX or 2 pa~r-Karl1596  DESPERATELY NEED ONE MSU GA TICKET! WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! CALL BILL AT 1629.  RICH UNCLE WANTS TICKETS TO USC GAME. CALL x1763 ANYTIME AFTER 6  WANTED SUitably allracl.ve. >nlelhgenl female seatrnate for my brother from U Wtsconstn for Mtchtgan State garne. Audt·  
I. Silver watch las! week Walch has grav1ng on !he back If found call Cohn 04. REWARD. FOR RENT  TICKETS NEEDED FOR USC-MUST HAVE---CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 NEED 2 M1ch St GAs. W1ll trade 2 Penn St GAs. Call Martha 7915. NEED GA TIXS FOR ALL HOME  HELPIII This is myparents ffrst trip out of West Vir· ginia and they wan! to see what a real football game is like. Help me out with a MICHIGAN STATE GA Call Scotty at 1219.  4 sale 1 G.A. x3836 DO YOU HAVE ANY MICH STATE TICK· ETS? I ONLY NEED 2! STUDENT OR G.A. CALL TERRix6804 TWO MICHIGAN STATE G.A.'s  Banquet Roo'll available al LOUIE'S FAMILY RESTAURANT. 744 N. Noire Da'lle Ave.. South Bend. Have your club 'llee110gs, birthday part1es ... For 1nlor'lla· lion call 233-4044. NEEDS$$?  t1ons 6-10 PM Tuesday at 357 Cavanaugh. GA adrntss1on patd. AVAILABLE One allract>ve le'llale lor seal'llale al M1ch1gan Stale ga'lle. Call Sam anyttrne or look for her on the thtr· leenlh floor ollhe library.  
:>R RENT COMPLETELY SHED APARTMENT :OROOM.LIVING  FUR­ GAMES.PETE 255-11196 Need 4 GA's lor MICH STATE GAME. Call Kra1g at 1808.  I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA's. WILL PAY WELL CALL RANDY AT 6700. I NEED. LUST, DESIRE 2·3 USC TIX TERRY8486  NEEDED FOR MY PARENTS WHO ARE MAKING THEIR FIRST TRIP TO NOTRE DAME CALL 3211 OR 3209 FOR $$$$$$$$$.  Uke a challenge~ Turn your spare trrne mto money. Groups or IndiVIduals needed 10 pro'llole college vacat1on tours. For more tnformat1on call (414) 781-0455  NDISMC SENIOR PICNIC PICTURES ON DISPLAY-LeMANS-TUES. 4PM­7PM. LaFORTUNE -WEDS & THURS NOON-2PM.  
JOM,BATHROOM.KITCHEN 2 .OSETS CALL JOE LACOPO AMOND AVE. 233·2203  BIG 731  NEED TWO MSU GA OR STUDENT TICKETS. WILL PAY WELL CALL KEVIN8822  I have 2 M1ch Sl GAs. Look•ng Ia trade lor USC slu lix or GAs. 277-4844.  MSU TIX NEEDED. CALL 1776. AVAILABLE· 2 MICHIGAN ST  GAslll  orwnte  Des1gners on Travel 40?5 n. 1241h St  TERESE. IF IT'S NOT LOVE, AND IT'S NOT CHORALE. WHAT IS IT???  
WILL TRADE FOR 2 NAVY GAs. CALL  Brookfield. W1sc. 53005  
:eoDESPERATELY 4 MSU TICKETS. ILL PAYS$$ PLEASE CALL BOB AT 171. rn 1 bdr'll house lor renl. E ol NO. Ph 2·0261.  NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA's OR 1 GA AND 1 STUDENT TICKET CALL KATHY AT 2968. NEED DESPERATELY 1 MSU TICKET. WILL PAY. CALL KATHY 7793  NEED 2 Student or 2 GA's lor M>ch·Siale. Please call Laura 8079. desperately need 'l11Ch1gan slate 11ckel, na'lle your pnce. call277-1405.  ERIC AT 8891. I NEED 2 MICH. ST. TICS. GA OR STUD, CALL RUSS 1827 $$ HELP!MY FAIEIIIDS WANT TO DRIIIIK  MULTIMILLIONAIRE FRIEND WILL PAY MULTI-DOLLARS FOR 4-8 TICK­ETS TO MSU OR USC. CALL BILL AT x1763.  THEO MAJORS: Pleaae do not miss an Important meeting tomorrow, Septem­ber 14 at 4:30 P.M. In room 104 O'Shaughnessy.  
NEEDED 2-10 11ckets lor M1ch Sl ga'lle  INN. D. STADIUM. CALL STEVE AT 277­ SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES SO·  
Any pnce acceptable Call Bruce al 6760  1308  AFTER  2  P.M.  WILL  PAY  BIG  I need 1 sludenll>ckellor Mich. Stale. Call  CIAL CONCERNS  FILM  SERIES SO·  
WANTED 1nted: 2 dependable le'llales lo are hv•ng expenses 1n a ntce. furnished use S 150.00 per 'llonth (iOcludes ren1 j u11h11es). Non·s'llo~ers please. Call 9-5930 belore 5 00 or 291-9844 after lOp.m.  HELPI I NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. KATHY 3429 NEED 4 OR MORE GA TIX FOR MICH ST. WILL PAY TOP SS CALL MAUREEN 284-5180 Need 1 MSU Ticket. Call Janel a1 284· 4261.  Can deal lor Colorado.Mia'lli, or Army 11ckets NEED MICH ST. GA'S CALL JIM 277­2163 SSS lor 3 Navy GA and 4 Pitt. GA. Call Mary Ellen 283-7825. Have 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. Wan! to trade lor 2 PENN ST GA's. Call Lisa. X 7835.  BUCKS. TRADE-HAVE 2 MSU TICKS; WANT 2 USC OR 2 A. F. TICKS CALL No. 1433 NEED MSU TICKETS. PLEASE CALL TRACY 4347. MSU TICKET NEEDED, STUDENT OR GA FOR LITTLE BROTHER. CALL LAR· AY 234-9114.  M1ke x6770. Thank-you. IIIHI, RICKIII GET WELL SOON! KEEP YOUR CHIN UP IN THE SKY AND YOUR NOSE TO THE MATTRESS! IIIWE LOVE YOUIII VICKI AND DIANNE MANNER, nol gold. IS IS WO'llen'.s best adornment  CIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES DUCK AND COVER AIO'lliC Cafe Tomghl at 7 & 9 Eng. Aud. free. Peace Through Mass Annthtlat1ve Destruct1veness. F1nd out how tomght at I he AIO'lliC Cafe Eng. Aud. al7 & 9. FREE.  
,, I I I I I I I I  GIONAL & LOCAL REPS WANTED DISTRIBUTE POSTEflS ON COL· GE CAMPUSES PART-TIME OR lRE WORK. REQUIRES NO SALES. •MMISSION PLUS PIECE WORK. ERAGE EARNINGS $6 00& PER UR. CONTACT AMERICAN SSAGE, 500 THIRD AVENUE WEST. ITTLE, WA 98119. ATTN NET­AK. (208) 282-8111 :eo 2 GA'S OR STU TIX FOR MSU !! .LJOHIIIATNo.3217  WANTED TWO MSU TIX. PLEASE CALL RON AT 3360 NEED 3 MSU GAS OR STU TIX. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 277 ·4273 HELP! I need 3 Navy G.A.·s. Will pay good 'lloney. Call To'll at 1423. My 'llom w1ll kill 'lle 111 don'! gel an MSU gen. adm. trcket. Please save my life and sell 'lle one. Call Pete al 8317 or 831 R. I I hank and 'llom !hanks you.  Please Trade I offer 2 M1ch1gan Stale GA sand$501or 2 USC GAs Call Sleph 2172 Help! Parents are comtng wrth my favonte brother and I have to delrver three GA's for M1ch1gan Slate.Two GA's and one slu­denl would be f1ne. Call Ed a1 277­7 415. Thanks. NEED 4 MSU G.A.'s. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL KEVIN at 8636 WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 1 MSU TICKET. CALL DANNY 277-5263.  I NEED 2 MICH. STATE STUDENT TICK· ETS, CALL PAUL 8301 or 3697 NEED 2 STU. OR 2 GA TIX FOR MSU GAME. CALL JOHN 8301. Doesn't anyone out there-care? We're talking about one aerlously demented lndlvlduall This person Is a fan ol (shhhll) ALABAMA. but Alabama fans pay big bucks to ..., NDI We only need lour tickets-Is that too much to aak lor this cause? Call Marc or Greg et 8284.  MIND YOUR MANNERS MIND YOUR MANNERS MIND YOUR MANNERS If d's MANNERS thai you seek, watch The Observer neXI week. WSNDRadlo 1s look1ng for Art1sts. Orgamzers. an~'cor Idea People lor our PubliC>IroPro'llolion Dept More 1nlo. call To'll x6842.  HELP!! I NEED 2 MICH ST TIX-­STUDENT OR GA BIG $$ CALL JEANNE 284-5082 6 Student TIX!I'! Any Ga'Tle!l! Only $1200 Call1779. ROWLAND THE RED-NOSED REIN­DEER!!I! Suicide Pilot Club MHtlniJ 3 17 P.M. Fnday Brough! to You by !he THE RUDES  
I  
I  
I  


The Observer Tuesday, September 13 , 1983 -page 9 
Fouts strikes again 
Late Charger rally downs Chiefs 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -Dan Carson was thrown to fellow wide and-10 at the 12, he rifled the game­Fouts, unleashing his throwing arm receiver Henry Marshall with 3:07 winning touchdown pass to a after San Diego was shocked by a 48-to play to put the Chiefs on top 14-wide-open Chandler on the left side yard Kansas City touchdown pass 10. ofthe end zone. play, drove the Chargers 80 yards in Then Fouts, the record-smashing 
Any hope the Chiefs had ofregain­five plays last night, passing 12 yards passer who had uncharacteristically 
ing the lead died with 59 seconds 
to Wes Chandler for the game­kept the ball on the ground most of left when, on fourth-and-1 at their 
winning touchdown with 1:45 to the game, went to work. 
own 29,Jewerl Thomas was stopped
play to beat the Chiefs 1 7-14 in a N a­Starting from his own 20-yard cold by linebacker Mike Green. 
tiona! Football League game. line, he passed 13 yards to Chandler, In a game almost devoid of then flipped short flat passes to Before San Diego's winning score, electrifying plays, the Chiefs James Brooks and Chuck Muncie Kansas City had pushed just over 
stunned San Diego when quarter­that were converted into gains of 36 
midfield, staying almost exlusivelyback Bill Kenney's lateral to Carlos and 15 yards, respectively. On first-on the ground. Then, on first-and-10, Kenney tossed the ball to Carson, who never hesitated. He fired the ball downfield to Marshall, who had gotten behind stumbling corner­
• • . Positive back Danny Walters. 
continued/rom page 12 season. 
The Chargers, disdaining the passknow what to expect from her," ex­Bishop is confident of a victory in one long drive peer another, took
plains Bishop. over Adrian College and believes 
a 10-7 lead in the third period whenBishop attributes Saturday's loss that the Irish will win "if they play 
Muncie capped a 96-yard, 15-playto a lack of finesse in Notre Dame's like they did on Saturday." The 
drive by sweeping 1 0 yards for his
stick work and she plans to work on match against Adrian will begin on 
third touchdown this season.
this area. She feels that experience Friday at 4 p.m. on Alumni field. and time will help the Irish improve 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
during the course ofthe season. 
Bishop feels that playing in the t Lunch at the Centerfor Social Concerns t morning was an advantage, due to Saturday's unseasonal heat in West t Wed., Sept. 14, 11:30-1:30 t 
Lafayette. According to Bishop, the 
extreme heat 2.ffected the team, but t Lunch will be cooked by and served by t it was not a factor in the team's loss 
t Cambodian Refugees-a typical Cambodian f 
since it affected both teams equally. 
At the end of the match, t meal consisting of the following menu: t 
DiGiacomo was submerged in water 
t Egg Rolls t
due to overheating. "I got the chills at the end of the t BBQ Beef-on-a-stick t game." DiGiacomo said later. "The 
t Iced tea or Coffee t
heat wasn't so bad until the last few 
minutes." 
f Donation--$3.00 f 
Bishop doesn't expect to make any major changes in the starting 
line-up soon. but stressed that it is : Also served before the football game. t 
still very flexible. Bishop is Saturday, Sept 17, 11:00-1 :00 f impressed with the depth and talent 
t s~~n t
of this squad and hopes their en­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
thusiasm continues through the 
HOWARD JOHNSON'S 
Baseball standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East East 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB Philadelphia 74 68 .521 -BaltHnore 85 55 .607 Montreal 73 68 .518 .5 De1r011 82 62 569 5 P1ttsburgh 73 70 .510 1.5 New York 80 63 .559 6.5 St. Louis 72 70 .507 2 Milwaukee 79 65 .549 
8 Chicago 64 79 .448 10.5 Toronto 79 66 .545 8.5 New York 59 84 .413 15.5 Bos1on 69 74 .483 17.5 Cleveland 64 80 .444 
23 

West West 
Los Angeles 83 60 .580 -Chicago 84 59 .587 
Atlanta 80 63 .559 3 Kansas C1ty 67 75 .472 16.5 
Houston 75 67 .528 7.5 Texas 67 77 .465 17.5 
San D1ego 71 73 .493 12.5 Oakland 67 78 .462 18 
San Francisco 68 76 .472 15.5 California 64 79 .448 20 
Cinc1nnati 65 79 .451 18.5 M1nneso1a 61 83 .424 23.5 
Seattle 55 87 .387 28.5 
Yesterday's Results Yesterday's ResuHs Chicago 8, Montreal 0 New York 1, Milwaukee 0 Philadelphia 2. New York 1 De1roit 5, Cleveland 1 Bal1i'l1ore at Boston ppd . 
Pittsburgh 7, St. Louis 5 
Seniors!! 
LAST CHANCE for your Informal Affair Register ONLY Wed. 9/14, 12-7 pm LaFortune Lobby--Questions call 239-5136 
Dateless and Desperate Welcome!! 
.,:;. 
).· 


SPORTS
.,..... 
-..-~·. 
WEEK-END 
2 Nights -3 Doys 
0 0

Friday-Sept. 23 o . See Dokes VS Coetzee Fight 
o 

(In Room HBO) 
0 0

Saturday -Sept. 24-Notre Dame VS Miami Hurricanes 
o o 

At the Orange Bowl 
0 0 0

Sunday-Sept. 25-Miami Dolphins VS Kansas City 
o 

At the Orange Bowl TOTAL HOTEL PACKAGE Includes: 2 Nights -2 Person 
$59.00 
$8.00 each add'l person Special Low Rate on car rental 
(GAME TICKETS NOT INCLUDED) 
All Locations convenient to Orange Bowl, Stay at any of the following conveniently Airports, Beaches, Shopping Centers, Dog &Located Hotels. 
Horse Races, Jai Alai, Golf, Tennis, and Fine Dining. 
CDitlen C/atlet-16500 N.W. IntiA~e.-94S-Z6Zt 
MAKE YOUR RESERVATION TODAY 
Br111tl Cau1eway-IZIIO Bi1eayne Bitt/.-891-1150 AirpDrl-1980 N.W. Wuene Rd. -811-4110 

•
~­
AREA CODE 305 -.~. ,,~·"' .... "....... ~, . JSem,..-~ ... :-=rt"t¥.Vti!t;tt§~ 
TOLL FREE 1-800-654-2000 
',,.. 
~The Observer Tuesday, September 13, 1983-page 10 

Tuesday Sep~ember 13 
6:30-S:OQpm. 
Meet the museum staff & r~ave dessert WI ~h US 
AL -ANON 
Do you have a friend or family member who has a drinking problem? Maybe our AI-Anon group is for you! 
WHEN: Every Thursday, 4:00pm beginning September 15. WHO: for Notre Dame/St. Mary's College 
students. WHERE: Counseling-Psychological Services Center. Notre Dame Student Health Center 
CONTACT: Peggy Cronin or Monica McNamara at C-PSC, 239-7336 or 239-5085 
(h~HE~LLEJJ&~~~~D 
12C, 15C, 16C..  . ....  only$92.00  
10C............ $52.00  11C ........... $69.00  
41CV.........  $209.00  41C ..........  $149.00  

75C Handheld Computer ................ $749.00 
Computer Mail Order is a complete Hewlett Packard Calculator Dealer. We ship all orders from stock and carry a complete line of software. peripherals a'nd supplies for HP Calculators. Call our Toii·Free number nearest you for the best j;rice anywhere on the accessories you'll need for your HP Calculator. 
..!CAMPUS REPS NEEDED! 
We need Sales Representatives on your campus to sell Hewlett Packard Calculators and other computer products. You II make generous comm1ss1ons sell1ng only the highest qual1ty name brands on the market C;11i today to see If you qualify 1..9..!•.31 
:Cam us Representative K1t No Investment requned 1' 
~~©~~llil1J~~g ~~[1:3 ©~@~~~ g~£~~g gW~~~g 
~ ·®@@ ·~~~ ·®®~@ ~-®@@ .@4)©.~~~~. 
Dept 1000. In PA call(7 t 7)327·9575 Dept. t 000. In NV cal1(702) 588·5654 
Order Status Number.(717) 327 9576 Order Status Number (702) 588·5654 477 E. 3rd St Williamsport. PA 17701 P 0 Box 6689. S1ateltne. NV 89449 
Plants& Ro~s 
SALE! 
10perantoff on all plants 
Thursday· Saturday 
Rowers, Co~ & Boutineo"savailable 
Lemans Hall, SMC cal1284-4597 \ 
I 

·---------------------,
I

Plants& RoWEl'S 
I I 

~N~ame~=--------------------1 
A~ I 
I for zr!iluffed

Phone I q (drawingon1opEI"<Dltotf on all plants 1Sqlb:inber 13) 
__________, __________________
....J 
• • . Spikers 

cominuedjrompage 12 
in 14-11 before a service error halted the charge. 
"What the spectator sees when he 
sees the erratic play," said Vanslager, 
"is how the players start out with 
good concentration, but the level of 
concentration is not the same 
throughout the match. 
"They have to have the same level of concentration on every point, in every game, whether they're win· ning or losing." 

~CJCIAL OONC£RN~ f-ll_M ~ERI£S 
ATOMIC CAfE 
Sept. 13-14 7 and 9:00 Engineering Auditorium, FREE 
MultipleChoice 
Don't leave your dinner to guesswork.
0 
3 oz. (serving) 
Protein 12g Fat lOg 


Domino's Pizza is the best Coke available choice. Just 2 slices are 16 oz. bottles more nutritious, lower in 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
fat and higher in protein 
Umlted delivery area. 
©1983 Domino's Pizza. Inc.
than either a taco or 
cheeseburger. 
Nutritional information from: Table 1. Nutritional Analyses of Fast Food•. 
So give us a call and put 
United States Agriculture Research us to the test. Service. 
r·-··------------------, 
Mondays only. Only $6.99 for a 16" 
1-item pizza plus 2 16 oz. bottles of Coke. One coupon per pizza Expires: 1 0/1/83 
$6.99 
Fast, Free DellveryN 1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center
MI. 
Phone: 277·2151 
35t67 I 2650 
~----------------:~~---~ 
first start, and Merchant and McKeown performed well late in the match when the pressure was on. 
IRISH ITEMS-The Irish will try to make it two in a row when they take on Butler and Dayton tomor­row in Indianapolis to open North Star Conference play .... The next home match will be on Saturday at 10:;-\0 when Southwestern Michigan visits the ACC Pit. 
Tennis pairings 
All 'llatches rnust be played and reported to th NVA offtce by WednP.sday, September 21. 
Men's Open Tennis Cogan (8057) v. Logan (1877) Runger (1432) v. M. McCabe PuJals (8653) v. Ralph (1903) E:uion 18394) v. Boulet (8433) Arellano (1461) v. M1iier (t 107) Cooke (3316) v. Colltns (8919) Calloway (1527) v. Muyres (1775) Powers (1600) v. Welsey (6981) Bery (1177) v. Marchaunz (1652) Potner (1471) v. Cterzntak (1689) immonen (3091) v. Goldner (6937) Mtschke (4521 fv. Guns (7743) 
Gee (t022) v. Chou 13258) O'Bnen (1692) v. Antontni (1633) Wetmholt (8921) v. Soergel(1575) Stmone (3122) v. Gnfftn (1178) Ja'lles (1530) v. Deeter (1983) Walker (t723) v. Donahue (1424) Retdy (9070) v. Harman (1082) Duncan ( 11 03) v. Kelleher (8943) Wall(t 195) v. Reyes (1372) lstwaka (8944) v. Foley (1725) Hayes (1195) v. Kntpe (8917) Rtchardson (277-1405) v. Wetgei(3171) Sharp (3344) v. Hanna (3106) Rench (1073) v. Tuel (1478) Shafer (1219) v. Grunewald (6802) Defrances (1139) v. Goulet (7563) Gro1ean (1248) v. Hardtman (1223) 
Players whose names do not appear have rece1ved a bye. 
Other tourney pa1nngs will appear over the next day~ 
Australians challenge 
U.S. for Cup 
NEWPORT, R.I. (AP) Is Australia II the breakthrough boat that will seize the America's Cup that has been U.S. property since before the Civil War? 

Does the more traditional Liberty have enough all-around strengths to stave off one of the strongest chal­lenges to America's 132-year dominance? 
After a summer filled with com­petition and controversy, the first few moments of today's opening race of the best-of-seven final series may answer those questions. 
"It would be interesting for the first 10 minutes" to see which boat has the edge, says Liberty skipper Dennis Conner. 
'Give us 20 to 30 minutes with average wind and you'll know pretty quickly if someone is getting blown out ofthe water," says Warrenjones, executive director ofthe Australia II syndicate. 
Since trials to determine the two finalists began)une 18, Liberty raced 50 times, compiling a 34-16 record, and Australia II, in 54 races, amassed a 48-6 mark. 
But th~y've never measured their relative strengths in the same race, making the beginning of today's battle especially revealing. 

Australia II, an exceptionally maneuverable boat skippered by John Bertrand, won most ofits starts during the foreign trials and ex­celled on the first, fourth and sixth legs, which go upwind. Its crew was happy to stay even going downwind on the second, third and fifth legs of the six legs of the races over a tri· angular 24.3-mile course on Rhode 
Island Sound. 
Moderate northeast winds of 
about I 5 knots and scattered 
showers were predicted for Rhode 
Island Sound today. The winds were 
expected to pick up Wednesday. 

Despite the erratic play, though, the team's performance is getting better. At times, the offense was run­ning efficiently and the defense was digging well. 
"Our transition from offense to defense was better tonight," said Vanslager. "The front row players were pulling back from the net like they should." 
The play of Henken, Mollie Mer· chant, and McKeown was another bright spot as Henken did well in her 
.-. ' -.~ ..... ~ .' , ' _,. ' ~~ -' .' '...., "" 

']I['4C:t.:llC3L~--------------------------------------T·u•e•s•d-ay_,_s_e_p.te•m•b•e•r--13
__,_19•8•3----p·a-ge__l_l 
Bloom County 
1HE.R£ l A(...(... PONt: I AN!i IN Pt.£NTY Cf111116 FOR lW 1D <X11D YOUR 10-YMR HICJH ;;(,1-f(X)(.. U!>H I 
~UNION 11115 

Fate 

.--------...... 
OH 1HI'if'5 JUST 111£ 
NOIOCAIN€. ..YOU WON'T BB 
Ai3l.£ 1D MOVe YOUR JAW, MOVTH, UPS OIZ 1DN0\J£ 
UN11(... liT L.M5L. UH •.. 

WHAT fJc Yc.f :r:;.,_.-. AC(GuNl~ FeR i!t: ~wee·. :f 7Hf. · tl, ,, (If(, AF Tt ((NCCt-. . 

Aspirin Man 

HI, TillS IS ASP/11/1</I'JA#. 
·-IlLII~. BLAH, GLAJ.I••• 
HOW AM Y0\..1 DOIN6 
WE'Ll, U.~ £11., W£'/1.£ HIIVilt/& 
BLAI/ BLAH, BL tliL ..... 
\ 
A DANCE T"HIS WEEK£N~ f!ND r WAS W0ft/O£RiNG 
IF YO~'O LIKE 'TO GO. 
\ 


The Daily Crossword 

© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/13/83All Rights Reserved 



'1-13 -t:3 


ACROSS 34 Corner 1 Feeler 35 Ballad 5 Hinderby 36 In doubt 
crowding 37 Important 10-impasse import 14 Silkworm 38 End of the 15 Of a time month 
period activity 16 Appie type 40. Ring 17 Maple genus decision 18 Bonn's 41 Roi's home 
river 43 Neither 19 Streetcar Rep. nor 20 Sleep Dem. 22 Hunting 44 British 
cry weapon 24 Tax agcy. 45 Bo-Peep's 25 Composer loss 
Erik 46 Small 26 Deducts planets 30 Patty 48 Attain 
Duke-50 Fabled bird 
Monday's Solution 
,...._._._.__. 
Student Union 
PRINTING SERVICE 
New · Replacing Campus Press Bring Camera-ready poster art 
r· 

~/13163 
' 
to S.U ..:Record Store 
. --------~--·
for your posters and table tents 
Berke Breathed 
Photius 
WITHOUT THC TEII/1 [ DON T THINK NOT/([ 

DavidJ. Adams 

Campus_ ;.,-.,.__ · \ 
•12:10 
p.m.-ArtNoontalk, "Francois Boucher's Offering ofa Rose," Dr. Dean A. Porter, Annenberg Auditorium 

•3 
p.m.-Computer Minicourse, EssentiaiJCL, 115 Computing Center · 

•4 
p.m. -Soccer, ND Men vs. Valparaiso Univer­sity, Alumni Field 

•7 
p.m. Hawaii Club Organizational Meeting, LaFortune 

•7 
and 9 p.m.-Social Concerns Film, "Atomic Cafe," Engineering Auditorium, Free 

•7 
p.m. -Relationship and Sexuality Series, "Sexuality: A Doctor's Perspective," Gail English, Carroll Hall, SMC 

•7 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, Howard Hall Social Space 

•9 
p.m. -Pep Rally Committee organizational meeting, LaFortune Little Theatre 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
16 22 28 34 16 16 28 34 16 22 
28 34 28 16 
28 34 28 28 34 34 16 22 28 
10:30 p.m. 16 22 28 
11:30 p.m. 16 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 MacNeil/Lehrer Report M-A-S-H 
Family Feud Wheel of Fortune Straight Talk ATeam Special Movie Presentation, "The Bunker" Happy Days NOVA joanie Loves Chachi 
NBC Movie: "Beulah Land" Part 
Ill 
Three's Company Lifeline 9to5 Hart to Hart Numero Uno Matters of Life and Death NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Tonight Show CBS Late Movie 
Thicke ofthe Night Late Night with David Letterman 
-

51 Foot lever 54 Window 
adjuncts 58 Kiln 59 In agree~ 
ment 61 Architect 
Saarinen 62 Dies­63 Spiritual 
nourish­ment 64 Waste 
allowance 65 Praise 66 Dimwith 
tears 67 Wheellike toy 
DOWN 1 Vegetable 
dish 2 Chief 3 Place 4 Divided 
sectionally 5 Whencea butterfly 
6 Architect Mies van de;­
7 Onassis 
to friends 8 Devilfish 9 Fold 
10 Naive 11 Loyalist 12 Nanking 
nan a 
13 Verne 
captain 21 Blunder 23 Chinese 
weight' 25 Fashionable 26 Halts 27-Heep 28 Pretty girl 29 Presiden· 
tial nick· name 31 Everyone, 
in music 32 Offended 33 Garish 
signs 36 Certain 
apparel 38 Man, e.g. 39 Bank abbr. 42 Made bubbly 44 Association 46 Chemical 
compound 47 Reagan, to 
friends 49 Meek as­51 Drudgery 52-avis 53 Birthright 
seller 54 Magnani of movies 55 Sleuth Wolfe 56 Novelist 
Zane 57 "And-bed" 60 Unit 
~Far Side -.~ ·.. :-. 
' 


N.D. vs. Miami!! 
N.D. Club of Ft. Lauderdale is sponsoring: $39 doubles at Sheraton Yankee Trader Hotel on the beach 
in Ft. Lauderdale. $10 bus from Ft. Lauderdale to game & back early Sun. morning 
A pep rally Friday, tailgater Sat & Mass at hotel Sunday 
Call Greg Moore (305) 566-4732 for reservations or Student Union 239-7757 for details. 
Be There 


•=c-~--)oc:::x:-)oc:x_x:IOo:x·-)oc:::.:x::>:::oc:::a.o:.::oc:.)oc:_oo_.oc:x;>-ocx.eooc:x>-OC:.:.>o_:.oc._)o__oc·:)o::-o·~--)::oc._o.o_oc_rxx:.eoocx>Oooc--:xx:IOoocx.eo._oc._:ao_ooooooooooooo 

Tuesday, September 13, 1983-page 12 
Irish take 'tnust-win' 
• game for first victory 
we arc not executing them in the

By MIKE SULLIVAN 
game."

Sports Editor 
The execution was especially had early in the first game as Notre Dame

Before this season started, it was was called for a line violation and
doubtful that Sandy Yanslager and made service errors in falling behind
her Notre Dame volleyball team 6-4.
thought that their match against St. The team's performance im­
Francis -Ft. Wayne would be an proved when Josie Maternowski
important one. But a rash of injuries began her service, however. and the
and careless mistakes put the Irish in Irish won 1 1 of the last 12 points of
a "must-win" situation against the 
the game.

Cougars. The streak of good play did not
They got the win -their first in last long. After taking a 6-4 lead ineleven matches this year -by 
the second game, Notre Dame

defeating St. Francis, 15-7, 7-15, 15­proceeded to commit numerous
11, 15-11, last night in the ACC Pit. service errors and violations, allow­
"Getting a win under our belt was ing the Cougars to take the last eight
real important," said Vanslager. "The points of the game for a I 5-7 win. 
girls proved to themselves that they St. Francis made it I .:\ points in a
could put a combination together to row as it jumped out to a quick 5-0
win." lead in the third game, hut Mater­
The victory was not as smooth as nowski once again provided a boost
Yanslager would have wished as her Th< on her service, lifting the Irish to a
team played very erratically, but, at
Wary}o Hensler and Wary WcLaughlin at­
6-5 lead.

times, it appeared that the players
tempt to block the shot ofa Georgia player in games, they hadbetter luck last nightagainst 
The lead went back and forth untilwere about to break out ofthe slump

action last week at the ACC Pit. Although the St. Francis. See Mike Sullivan's story at rlgbt. 
St. Francis committed a costly

that had seen them lose more games service error, allowing the Irish a
( 10) in the first two weeks of the chance to take control of the game.
season than they had all last year ( 9 ). With Kathy McKeown serving,
Once again, the team's injury Henken and Mary Jo Hensler scored
Topple Boilers and Illini 
problem was very noticeable as with spikes, and Notre Dame ran off
starters Karen Bauters and Mary the last five points to take a 2-1 edge
McLaughlin did not play, and anoth­
Irish netters win two over weekend 
in games. 

er, Karen Sapp, played with a badly ByJANE HEALEY worse over the off season, or ships) at the end of last season sig­jammed thumb. Terese Henken The Irish put the match away in AssistuntSports Editor whether Notre Dame is just that nalled to us that we can compete the fourth game as they jumped out
started for the first time this year in much improved over the same with the best," Fischette said. "I McLaughlin's place. to a large 13-4 lead and hung on as 
Astonishing victories were not ex­period of time. think it motivated the team mem­However, it was many minor the Cougars tried to stay alive. clusive to the football field this "I thought they were strong this bers to work hard over the summer; mistakes that caused the most Sapp, who had been having serv­ing problems all night, took her team
wet·kend. The Notre Dame women's year, hut I think our team is strong­and now it's paying off." problems against St. Francis. Service out to a 6-I lead. Henken extended
tennis team upset a surprised er," commented the lone Irish errors and net violations hurt the
Petro noted the importance of a 
the lead, and it appeared that thePurdue "-2 on Saturday and then senior, Pam Fischette. "It was our Irish just like they have all year, as

heightened team attitude, but as 
Cougars had run out ofgas.

went on to topple Illinois 5-4 on first match and I think everyone did spikes that missed the court.
coaches are likely to do, she cau­
Sunday. The victories were their wanted to start the season with a vic­Yanslager traces the problems to a They were not quite ready to roll 
tioned against overconfidence. first ever a~-:ainst Big Ten opponents. tory -especially against Purdue." lack ofconcentration. over, however, as they moved with­
"We have a different attitude this
Seeking revenge for two previous The only two matches the Irish "W-e're working on these things see SPIKERS, page 10
year," she said. "We started from day
losses to the Boilermakers ( 7-0 and lost were at No. .:\singles (Mary Col­every day in practice," she said, "but one wanting that National Cham­
7-2 last season), an inspired Notre ligan) and No. 2 douhles (Suzie Pan­pionship. They (the team) are really
Dame squad handed the home team ther and Laura Lee). psyched. Now we have to maintain
a 7-2 thrashing. For five hours in the At No. .2 singles Lisa LaFratta 
Field hockey team 
that attitude."
sweltering heat, the Irish served, squeaked hy Deh Prochaska 7-6, 4-6, strokt·d, and sizzled their way to vic­and 6-3, and Fischette had some ear­As players are apt to be, Fischette 
Irish women lost to Georgza in straight 
tory. 

TODAY 
soccer vs. Valparaiso 4p.m. Alumni Field 
TOMORROW 
soccer vs. Bethel 7:30p.m. Cartier Field 
FRIDAY 
soccer vs. Loyola 7:30p.m. Cartier Field 
tennis vs. Butler 3:30p.m. Courtney Courts 
field hockey vs. Adrian 
ly trouble with BartJie Barnes before was more optimistic about the rest 
drops first to Purdue 
t1nally winning 6-7, 6-1, and 6-2. But ofthe season. the other three singles players -"Our first two matches were our 
By MARY SIEGER recorded in the books as a loss, Irish No. I Suzie Panther, No. 5 Jo-Anne 
toughest opponents of the season," 
Sports Writer head coach Jan Galen-Bishop con­
Biafore, and No. 6 Laura Lee -all she said. "With two back to back vic­siders Saturday's match a victory forearned their first victories of the tories, I think we can be on our way While the Notre Dame football her team. She believes the game.
season in a relatively easy fashion, to a successful campaign this year." 
team chalked up a stunning victory "was the most positive loss I everwhile the doubles pairings of Fischette's optimism will be at Purdue on Saturday, the Irish field had and it set the pace for the entireFischette-Colligan and LaFratta­
tested once again next weekend hockey team can't claim to have season.
Greta Roemer won their eight game when the Irish face Butler at 3:30pm fared quite as well. The Irish "They played with their t hearts,"pro sets, 8-5, in each instance. 

on Friday and Depauw at 9 a.m. on dropped their first game of the she reflected.
The momentum created in Satur­

Saturday in two duels on the season to the Boilermakers, 1-0. Bishop feels that the entire teamday's victory carried over into Sun­Courtney Courts. 
Although the game will he gained confidence after its perfor­day's duel with Illinois. 
mance against Purdue. She believes"Having heat Purdue on Saturday 

"V-
it is a credit to her team to havereally made the game for us against provided a challenging match to aIllinois," Petro said. "If we hadn't team which was ranked third in theheat Purdue, I don't think we would Big Ten last season.
have defeated Illinois." 
In the last meeting between theThe Irish were also battling the Irish and the Boilermakers two yearsmemory of a close 5-4 loss to the 11­ago, Notre Dame lost 7-0. Bishoplini last season. 
says that Purdue was expecting an
"Illinois is an improved team," easy match against Notre Dame thisPetro said. "Last year· we played so time and suspects that the Boiler­bad, it wasn't indicative of our makers will take t the Irish moreahility. 
seriously in the future.
"Going into Sunday's match, I was In the closing minutes of the firstcont1dent about our talent, hut I was half, the Irish had an opportunity to
concerned ahout how tired we were tie the score, hut a spectacular save
after Saturday." 
hy a Purdue defender ended Irish
Petro's concerns were not 
hopes for a tie score at the half. His­satisfied until the very last match of hop said that the defense from boththe day. After splitting the six singles teams did outstanding jobs and com­matches and the first two doubles mends her defensive players formatches that were played, the team preventing more Purdue goals.
victory came down the last set ofthe Bishop was very pleased withNo. I doubles match featuring goalie Patti Gallagher's performanceColligan-Fischette. 

"It was so exciting." Coach Sharon With all the other action com­on Saturday. She stopped seven of Petro said. "I wasn't really certain pleted, the crowd at the Courtney the eight Purdue scoring attempts. beforehand if we could beat them "Patti is off to a good start and I'm
Tennis Courts focused their atten­(Purdue) or not. I was a little con­tion on the deciding game. Beyond impressed with the goals she cerned, and I hoped we could give it the talent that the crowd witnessed. stopped," says Bishop. our best. they also saw sheer motivation and The Ob!it"rvcr/Hk Phnlo Freshman Corinne DiGiacomo, "We gave it our best, and just positive attitude at its best. The Irish who started against the Boiler­

The No. I doubles team of Pam Fischette and Wmy Colligan
howled them over. They were makers, also suhmittt·d an outstand­
battled back from a 6-7 loss in the 

playeda vital role last weekend as the Notre Dame women's tennis
surprised -really surprised." first set to t1nish the Illini off6-2,6-2. ing performance.
team captured theirfirst wins ever over Big Ten foes, beatin!!, hotb
A look at the final score raist·s the "Finishing third in the nation (in "She stood out hecause we didn't
Purdue and Illinois. jane Healey gives tiJe details in ber st0111 at
question wht·ther Purdue has gotten the Division II National Champion-left. · see POSITIVE, page 9 


