'Right Stuff'·-page 13 


VOL XVIII, NO. 56 the imh.:pendt·nt ~tutknt rKw~paper ~tTYing notn dame ami ~aint mar.·~ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1983 
Soviets reject plan for arms reduction 
Associated Press 

protests and efforts to blockade the 
The Soviet Union rejected Presi· Greenham Common U.S. Air Force dent Reagan's latest arms reduction base. Police arrested five of them, proposal, and a top Kremlin spokes· bringing to 616 the number arrested 
man said yesterday his country will this week. pull out of the Geneva arms talks if Britain refuses to say how many NATO goes ahead with deployment cruise missiles have arrived, but the ofPershing 2 missiles. first 16 of 96 due to be sited there 
But in West Germany, where all are expected by the end ofthe year if I08 Pershing missiles are to be sited, there is no agreement in the Geneva Chancellor Helmut Kohl said the arms talks. Soviets had signaled possible new concessions at the Soviet-U.S. talks The weapons are among 572 on medium-range weapons cruise and Pershing 2 missiles NATO specifically a willingness to drop plans to deploy in Europe over the their demand that British and !"ext five years to counter Soviet SS-French nuclear arsenals be included. 20s aimed at targets in Western 
Europe. 

U.S. arms negotiator Paul H. Nitze met for 2 hours with Soviet delegate 
In Moscow, an editorial in the Yuri Kvitsinsky in Geneva, and said 
Communist Party newspaper Pravda the talks were continuing. Another
Two representatives from the National Or-ganiza· and distribute information on Sex Offense Seroices. said Reagan's latest missile reduc· tionfor Women (NOW) await at their posts in Saint NOW was one ofa half-dozen professionalgroups on session was set for Wednesday. tion offer is aimed at "drowning Mary's Haggar College Center to recruit new members campus aspart ofWomen's Opportunity W'eek. Soviet officials were noncommit­hopes" for an agreement. It said the 
tal when asked if the threat to leave 
U.S. offer is unacceptable because it the Geneva tal';{s meant a temporary 
does not take into account British walkout or a longer one. 
and French nuclear missiles and Vadim Zagladin, a Communist
ND pizza service seeks spicy sales 
would allow deployment of ll.S. Pany Central Committee official, 
medium-range missiles, makingalso said deployment of U.S. 
allied strength in medium-rangeByJOHN lAVELLE pizza shops, Hickey developed the these services to establish one at medium-range missiles would have 
missiles twice the Soviets'. News Staff pizza company to provide students Notre Dame, and modified the a negative impact on the parallel with a beneficial service. "Without operations of the Huddle and the talks on strategic missiles. But he did Notre Dame Food Service is off to having the pressure of turning a Oak Room Cafeteria in South Dining not say if the Soviets were threaten­The last public statement by the a slow stan in competing with dorm huge profit and by using ourexisting Hall to handle pizza mak!ng and ing a walkout from the strategic Soviets was made by President Yuri foodsales and area pizza companies facilities, we felt that we could put delivery. arms reduction talks as well. Andropov late last month, when he in the door-to-door delivery ofpizza, out a cheaper product of com­"We realized that students have a In Britain, where the first ship­said the Soviets were willing to cut but food service organizers are parable quality," he said. ment ofcrui5e missiles arrived Mon­back to !40 medium-range missiles, confident the venture will eventual­The company boasts a .20-minut.e see PIZZA, page 5 day, a group ofwomen kept up their each carrying tpree warheads. ly pay off. delivery period, with student The Leprechaun Pizza Gompany, a delivery people using golf cans in division of Notre Dame Food their rounds ofcampus dorms. Service, was formed in September Hickey said similar food service by Food Servi<:e Director William pizza operations have worked well 
French attack Moslems in reprisal
Hickey to offer "quality and inex­at other universities, such as Michi­pensive'" pizza to students. gan and lllinois, and turn out Associated Press they knew in advance of the French reported .350 people killed and After sampling the quality and hundreds of pizzas daily. He said he strike, and a senior administration 1,360 wounded since the PLO war high cost ofneighboring South Bend was encouraged by the success of BEIRUT, Lebanon -French jets official said that if the terrorists broke out Nov . .3. 
University denies negligence in football injury lawsuit 
ByTIMOTHY GIANOITI 
News Staff 
The University has denied allegations ofnegligence in response to a lawsuit of a Saint Mary's junior seekin g more than $10,000 for injuries she received while being "passed up" at a home football game Oct. 31, 1981. 
Legal representative for the University john E. Doran responded Monday to the lawsuit filed by Anne Moorhouse in South Bend Dis­trict Coun. 
The legal complaint for damages states that Moorhouse was "accosted and grabbed by persons unknown to her and 'passed up' ... without her consent and against her stated desires" at the Notre Dame -Navy football gaJTie. 
Moorhouse was dropped to the ground, sustaining "personal in­juries, humiliation, embarassment, and fright," according to the complaint. It adds that she was in need of medical attention and was unable to continue her studies or her student and personal activities. 
David B. Weisman, Moorhouse's attorney. finds fault with the Uni­versity for Moorhouse's injuries, stating in the complaint that Notre Dame "willfully, wantonly, and recklessly failed" to prevent the pas­sing up of Moorhouse or to warn her of the "possibility of such at­tack." 
Referring to the practice ofpassingup as "unruly, violent, criminal and dangerous," the complaint also states that the University was aware of the danger, or at least should have been, and is therefore legally obligated to take some action for the safety of those people attending its football games. 
In response to the suit, the University denies the allegations accus­ing it ofknowing the general public was in t danger and offailing to warn Moorhouse in particular of this allegedly known danger. 
No date for the hearing has been set, and neither laW}er could be reached for comment. 
bombed, rocket~d and strafed Shiite Moslem guerrillas holed up in a bar­racks and a hotel in the Bekaa Valley yesterday in reprisal for the suicide attacks on French, U.S. and Israeli troops. Lebanese police said at least 39 were killed and 150 wounded in the raids on camps ofthe pro-Iranian extremists. 
The French raids were mounted a day after Israeli jets pounded the same area, leaving 4 3 dead, and mo­ments after a massive funeral proces­sion in the city of Baalbek during which a Shiite Moslem guerrilla leader threatened more suicide at­tacks against the French, Americans and Israelis. 
In Washington, U.S. officials said weren't wiped out there "might well be" a need for the United States to carry out an attack ofits own. 

Meanwhile, the Marines began replacing the U.S. peacekeeping contingent that suffered 239 dead in the suicide blast at Beirut airpon Oct. 23. Fifty-eight French paratroopers died moments later in a second bombing, and 29 Israelis were killed in a third explosion in Tyre Nov. 4. 
In nonhern Tripoli, guerrilla mutineers vowed that if PLO chief arafat did not leave the city they would bomb his hideouts "down to the earth." But Arafat said he would leave only when Tripoli's leaders tell him to go. The Red Cross 
Yesterday's French air raids were the second since French peacekeepers moved into Lebanon 1 5 months ago. On Sept. 22, French warplanes hit gun positions in the 
mountains overlooking Beirut. 

Founeen Super Etendard jets, scrambling off the carrier Cleman­ceau near Beirut, staged a 35-minute raid on the outskirts of Baalbek before sundown, then mounted an­other 20-minute assault after nightfall, Lebanese radios reported. The area is 50 miles east of Beirut. 
The French confirmed only the first raid, and did not give details of ·how many planes took part. 
Women unprepared for exec role 
ByJOHN MAITHEWS 
News Staff 
Executive Woman ofthe Eighties: Is she fact or fiction? "The jury is still out," according to Susan Holland, the founder and former president of a Chicago-based firm specializing in finding employment for manage­mentwomen. 
Addressing a small group of stu­dents at Saint Mary's last night, Holland said women "aren't ready" yet to fully capitalize upon the op­portunities aYailable to them in the executive market. "Many women claim, 'We want it' and 'We should. 

get ahead' when discussing the woman's ·modern role in the workplace, but our actions aren't al­ways in accord." 
Holland, who spoke as part of the College's "Women's Opportunity Week," said the modern executive is open to hire the best individual· for the job, rather than being swayed by gender, race or other discriminating factors. 
But, Holland saw the marketplace improving in the opportunities it of­fered to women due to turmoil in the economy. She predicted that hard work would be required by all. 
"The economy has caused a real shake-up as to what works and what doesn't," she said. "It used to be thought that if you get in with the big companies, you're set for life. But there's no O.K. today. The door's ajar (for women) but it's U!) to you to get in and make it hapren." 
Holland emphasized the need of women starting their careers to fit into the fundamentally "asexual" business setting. "To play into the female role is to play into the weak role:We want to play into the power ,role ...to changl· the belief that we (women) need to be taken care of." 
The Observer Friday, November 18, 1983 --page 2 
In Brief · Dry campus only one option 
Raymond I'. Kent, professor emeritus 
of finance at Notrt· Dame, died Wednesday in St. Joseph's Medical 
Ct·nter after a brief illness. In 19'> I. Kent won the Lay Faculty Award 
for Distinguisht·d Service, and in his memory, the University has es­
tablished The Raymond P. Kent Award to he given to the student 
with tht· highest grade-point average in finance. Kent wrote two 
textbooks and made numt·rous contributions to the major finance 
jounrnals. Encyclopt·dia Hritannica published one of Kent's articles 
in 1967. A resident ofSouth Bend since 1939, he received his Ph.D. 
in economics from the l fnivcrsity of Pittsburgh, where he also com· 
plctcd his master's and undergraduate studies. -The Obseroer 
Martin Luther King's birthday wm not he a 
holiday at Notre Dame, even though fedc:ral employees will be given the day off. Not recognizing the new national holiday, which Congress approved this month, is consistem with University policy of not rt·cognizing most federal holidays, said Dean of Administra­tion Leo Corhaci. Ever since Notre Dame squeezed all offall semes­ter into tht· time bdore Christmas, it has been necessary to cut out most ft-deral and religious holidays in order to fit in the required number ofclass days, Corhaci said. "If we did not do this, we would have to start classes in the middle of August," said Corbaci. -The Obsen'l!r 
The Free University Progratn is recruiting 
teachers for the spring semester. If you wish to volunteer ap· proximately one hour a wct·k to teach a non-credit hobby or activity, you may call tht· Student linion at 2H4-4 391. -The Observer 
Director Nicholas Meyersays the motive behind 
"The Day Alkr" on ABC was to get people talking about the consc­yucnccs of nuclear war. "This film is supposed to promote discus­sion," says Mcyn. "It's to get people involved in a dialogue." Calling the film apolitical, Mt·ycr says, "To me this movie is a gigantic public servict· annountTmcnt. like Smokey the Bear. All the rhetoric hc­twtTn tht·l'nitnl States and the Sovkt Union is lethal. There's a lot of heated rht·toric, but nobody's talking about what would happen when tht·y start to push till' button. That's what this movie is about." "The Day Alkr." to he broadcast Sunday night, focuses all ofits atten­tion on a single American community. Lawrence, Kan., and what happens to that place wht·n nearby Kansas City is obliterated by Sovit·t missilt·s. Tht· movit· stars Jason Robards. Jobt·th Williams, Stt·vt·n <;uttt·nberg, John Cullum. John Lithgow and Bihi Besch. As <kvastating as tht· destruction is, the survivors find themselves caught in a more frightening night mart· of radiation poisoning t.·om­plicatt·d by umtaminatnll(md and water. Pcopk arc murdered fo_r a slice of brt·ad and looters arc summarily ext-cutcd by firing squads. "Till' movit-iakl·s the position that you can't survive a mu.:lcar war," :\1t')'l'r says. "It can't be limited. it can't be protral'tcd, it can only he fatal. There ma) be people who arc breathing at the end of the film, hut that's not living. Tlwy just han·n't dkd )'l't." -AP 
Children have suffered due w federal cutbacks. 
and local governmt·nts and the privatt· sccwr ha\'l· been unahk to do much about it. atTording to a study of Indianapolb and live other l'ities rckased ycstnday. "The tindings art· ck-ar and distressing," said Trude Lash, dirt'l'tor ol' the study tilr the Foundation of Child l>evdopmnlt, which sponsored the study. "The programs hardest hit by the lkag;m admini~tration wnc the ont·s that gave childrcil and their t;unilit-s a fair chance to 'make it."' The two-year study, 
which examined d1angcs in spending. statling and casdoads tilr ';() l'hildrcn\ programs in six cities. liamd that school systems and job programs l(lr tt'l'n-agt·rs wt·r<· hardest hit by the fnkral cuts. It also l(amd tht·rt· wnt· dramatic changes in Aid to Families with Dcpend­t·nt <:hildrt·n. hlod stamps and d1ildrcn's Medicaid casdoads. The six dtit's involvnl in the stud\ wt·rt• New York City. li6nJston. In­dianapolis, Sacramt·nto, Calif.. ,Jacksonville, Fla.. and Flint. Mich. 
AP 

·Of Interest 
The shuttle bus will start 6:SS p.m. following the Air l'or<.-e football game or 2 1/2 hours aftt·r the end of the game. -The Obsen•er 
VVeather· · ­
Wanner k>day. with increasing cloudiness. High in the low to mid ';Os. :\tostly doudy tonight. Low in the upper 30s to around 40. Cloudy tomorrow. with a chance ofrain. Highs in the low to mid SOs. -AP "A dry campus? Are they serious?" 
That was a common reaction as students read an ar­
ticle in Wednesday's Observer. The story outlined the 
actions taken by the University Commission on the 
Responsible Use of Alcohol. "Eliminating or severely 
restricting the usc of alcohol is a serious possibility," said Father William Beauchamp, chairman of the com· mittec. 
But before students begin crying in their beer mugs, they should realize that eliminating alcohol on campus is only one of the several options that the committee will explore. "There is a whole range of possibilities," said Beauchamp. "I don't think things will stay the way they are now, but I can't make any guesses. The commit­tee hasn't discussed any specific recommendations." 
The committee was formed by Timothy O'Meara, University provost. It is a direct result of the Priorities and Commitments for Excellence (PACE) Report, released in November, 1982. The Report recom­mended that: "the Provost, with the approval of the President, appoint a committee of administrators, faculty, rectors and students, to draw up a public st;;.te­ment on responsible drink­ing; to consider whether present practices and 
policies on alcohol are con­ducive to responsible drink­ing; and to recommend new policies where ap­propriate." 
Besides Beauchamp, the committee consists ofseven other faculty, administrators and staff, plus Student Body President Brian Callaghan and Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Mike Carlin. The committee held its frst meeting last spring. 
who think we don't really han· a campus." 
__The_Ohs.eryer_ 
CtJmposilifm Editc1r... . ............ Suzannl· ComfJtJsitionAssistunt...................... Susan 
T)•fJe;·etters .......  . ...... Michdll' and Tt·d  
Neu•s liclitor...  .. ...................,left'  
CoprEclitor...  .. ......... Amy  

Sports CojJr l:'ditor ........................ Mik<· Features Cupy EditrJr ............................ Pctl' l:'tlitoritlls Lt~vout ................................... Kc..·n fi.·atu.res /.t~}·out ................. Sarah and Mary NJJ Dar Editor..................................... Kathy SMC Oa)' Editor............................ Mary Ann Ad 1Jesigt1 .................................. ........ lloh Photographer................................. ..... llamil Guest Appearann•s ... E;L<i)'·to-plt:asc J)ot, 
\'fest Virginia \\'illiams. a legal t.:hoir hoy. and Robc..-rl 
QuoteoftbeD(ll' 
Can you say ...resignation? 
The Obeerver USPS (599 2-4000)1 IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. e•cepl dunng e•am and vacation penods The Obeerver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College. Subscnptlons 
may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Obeerver. P 0 Bo• 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Obeerver IS a member of The Aaeocl8ted Pre... All reproduction nghts are reserved. 

David Dziedzic 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Friday 


Beauchamp believes that firm evidence exists which proves that an alcohol problem exists at Notre Dame. "The Notre Dame social scene is highly dependent on alcohol," he said. "This is a dangerous situation." 
"The trend throughout the country is to examine the responsible use of alcohol. It is obvious that the problem must be addressed in some manner," he adaed. 
The matter of University liability is also obviously prompting an intense investigation of alcohol use. Un­der Indiana law, the University is almost always liable for the actions of students who were allowed to drink on campus. As ofyet, parents have refrained from suing the University, but the pos­sibility definitely exists, not to mention the threat oflaw­

suits brought by people injured by the actions of drunken students. 
Beauchamp, however, !>l'es the University's respon· sibility in this area as reach­ing far beyond the legal liability. "Under our present situation," Beauchamp said, "drinking is encouraged, is accepted, and is viewed as the center of soda! life. We must do something to change this." 
lbe committee first decided to suggest the strict enforcement of the existing alcohol rules on campus. "We're far from having consistent enforcement of the existing rules," Beauchamp says. Such restrictions in· elude the "no alcohol in the hallways" rule.• 
Since its formation, the committee has approached scvt-ral groups for input. Letters were sent to the parents of 7'>0 students, each rector, and all faculty members. The responses so far have presented a num­ber of views. 
But Beauchamp admits there has been little input from students concerning the issue. "I would expect that concerned students would respond," said Beauc­hamp. Callaghan raised the issue at last Monday's Stu· dent Senate meeting, so perhaps the issue will be discussed further. 
"The primary response f've heard from students so 
far is that they are afraid of having a privilege taken 
away," Beauchamp said. "And there arc many people 
problem on this 

Beauchamp thinks that 
morality definitely enters in­
to the discussion. "While 
drinking per se is not im­moral," he said, "drunkenness is immoral. I don't think students consider drunkenness a moral issue." 
The committee will continue to gather input from different sour ces, especially students. Then a recom­mendation will be made to the provost, who will probably present the recommendation to the Board of Trustees. While no official deadline has be set, Beauc­hamp hopes that at least a preliminary report will be completed by February. 
Chances are there will he major changes made in l lni­vcrsity alcohol policy. The yuestion ofenforcement is a key, for, as Beauchamp states, "a rule that can't be en­forced doesn't mean anything." A "dry campus" poses all sorts of yucstions. For example, how will visiting alumni react to alcohol-less football weekendls? 
Because no plans have been proposed and no deci­
1 

sions have been made, there is still pknty of time for student input. Once tht· dt·cision for a dry campus is made, it may be too late. 
~r----------------.. 
I INPLATION _( I I GOIYOUI II BLOOD II BOILING? I 
I 
We can help relieve I 
some of that pressure! 1 
I HOW7we will pay you I I up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I 
1 It'' e"Y· J"" come io to om oew modem faoilily <ela' io comfy ~ 
reclining chairs while you dofl,ate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. 
1

'I 
You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your 1II second donation within the same week... AND we will give you aI free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. I 
I PLUS I I We Will Give You an Additional I 
I $41~.X.?.~P~~!~2~'~~.:!!~.::;,~~~you. ~ 
I II
For more information call1 234-6010 or come by515 Lincolnway West 
I Bring your I. D. I I AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS I 
A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others II Tues and Sat 8am-5pm 1I Wed and Fri 9am-5pm I 
·----------------­
The Observer Friday, November 18, 1983-page 3 
SMC security chief to retire next June 
By REBECCA HETLAND projects is cast over the entire News Staff campus. "Because we are small we have 
Saint Mary's Security Director An­the opportunity to become highly thony Kovatch has announced that personal and thus highly effective." he will retire next June. His career He went on to comment, "We try to stretches back to 1972, when he stress visibility which we feel is remembers the security force ninety-five percent of the security having only one car and relying on game. If everyone knows we're out Notre Dame to dispatch calls. there, chances are slimmer that 
"Naturally, because Saint Mary's something will go wrong." Kovatch has grown over the years, security could recall only one incidence of has had to expand." Kovatch ex­rape and a few assaults during his plained, "Now we have more skilled term at Saint Mary's. personneL more patrol cars, our Kovatch said he retired "simply own radio system (separate from because it's time, and I feel that I that of Notre Dame), security ought to give somebody else a phones throughout the campus, chance. I've enjoyed my years here more foot-patrolmen, and very im­immensely and hope that whoever portantly, more lighting on takes my place will do a good job. campus." I'm sure they will find a good re­
In addition, during Kovatch's time placement." in office, the escort service was Plans after retirement are unclear, developed. but Kovatch is looking forward to 
Over the years, Kovatch has spending time with his wife and become particularly fond of Saint grandchildren. "What I do after that Mary's and Notre Dame students, ad­is up in the air," he said. ministrators and faculty, and the Robert Foldesi, director of per­maintenance crews. "Their concern sonnel at Saint Mary's, noted that for safety has played an integral part Kovatch has put "one-hundred-and­in the effectiveness of our security fifty-percent" into his job, and system," Kovatch remarked "Also, searching for a replacement is a dif­cooperation from Dr. Duggan and ficult task. Dr. Hickey and all the nuns has been Saint Mary's has advertised in lo­one-hundred percent. I can't think cal and national publications and has of one bad thing to say about them, since received approximately 60 ap­and I have greatly appreciated their plications. Personnel is now busy support all along." screeningapplicants with hopes that 
Kovatch and the rest of the a new director will begin work soon security staff have tried to stress the after Christmas break. There will public relations aspect of security, then be an overlapping to make the realizing that the image security changeover less drastic. 

November 18 
Twilight's Last Gleaming 119781 usA 
D~re.:ted by Robert Aldrich Color. 144 m1n 
Nucl.3ar w:~r, ViP.tnam. and government credibility are the subjects of this 
(lram'3.·adventur11~. WhiCh ra•se<:t the quest1on of what happens when 
nuclt:ar wE!ap<ms get into lht~ wro:-tg lands Burt Lancaster plays a Viet­
nam vetaran who escapes from prison and captures a Montana missile 
-base __ .Annenberg Aud.,Snite Museum ADMISSION s2.oo 
~-~lr ~u ~ 11 f3ltilr-7 30 --=P-M_, 
The Oar House Cold Beer& 

Liquor 
Carry Out Till3 am 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
Live DJ and Dancing 
10-3 AM 
"TWO BARS" 


Thc Obscrvc:r/Hamil Cupt'ro

Books, photos, Civil War maps and other memorabilia from the Battle of Gettysburg are The exhibit marks the /20th anniversary ofLincoln,s displayed on the second floor of Memorial Library. famous Gettysburg Address. 
Library displays Gettysburg items 
ByMICHAEL]. CHMIEL the North, thus gaining the support in memory of President Lincoln. In­News Staff of the English. Losses were extreme cluded are a copy of his speech, a for both sides and there was a need picture of him a short time before 
In commemoration of today's for a military cemetery where the the speech which shows small pox I20th anniversary Of Lincoln's Get­Union Army could bury its dead. on his face, and a rare photograph of tysburg Address, Robert Havlik, a "Included in this display are Lincoln during the address. member ofNotre Dame's Library ex­books and pictures about the. "It (the picture of Lincoln during hibits committee, has arranged a dis­generals that were involved (in the his address) was a photograph of play on the second floor of the battle)," said Havlik, "and some of Lincoln just on the platform and it's a 
Memorial Library. the controversies that were going very rare photograph. By using 
The display· features the Very on between the administration and modern technology they (the Na­Reverend William Corby, ( 1833-the generals. tional Archives) were able to take 1897), known as "the Chaplain of "And then (there are) books on this picture, that was a hundred the Irish Brigrade," who served as a the troops, books listing troopers years old, and blow it up to prove chaplain at Gettysburg. He gained who were involved, including that it was Lincoln." fame by absolving and blessing the troopers from Indiana, (and items According to Havlik, the hooks in · troops before the battle. After the on) Father Corby." the display will be available for war, Corby returned to Notre Dame, Besides books on key figures of anyone to read after the display ends where he served as vice-president the battle, there are items ofinterest on Nov. 30. and president ofthe University. 
A monument commemorating Father Corby was built at Gettys­

Ecottomic myths fool 
burg in 1910. Today, a replica ofthis monument stands in front of Corby Hall. 

Americans, prof says
Lincoln made his famous address at the dedication of a cemetery in Gettysburg, Penn. He was "invited By KAREN THOMPSON day. to make a few remarks" following a News Staff McKenzie's speech, entitled "The two-hour speech by orator Edward Great Nations Industrial Policy Everett. Americans have been deluded by Hoax," attempted to spell out 
His "remarks" were spoken on the "myths" about serious economic various "myths" that the public has sight of one· of history's bloodiest problems in the country, according been hearing about the economy. battles, the Battle of Gettysburg, to a Professor ofEconomics at Clem­He claims that people have been which took place July 1-3, 1863. son llniversity. hearing only one side ofthe story. 
The Confederates, suffering heavy "Never has so much bull been McKenzie asserted it is an untruth losses and· ongoing conflicts within piled so high by so few," stated that total employment is declining. their own territory, engaged in this Professor Richard McKenzie, speak­He cited examples to support his battle hoping to achieve a victory in ing at the Memorial Library yester-stand, declaring, "There was a two 
percent increase in job growth in North Carolina. In Massachusetts the growth between 1976 and I980 was four percent, and in New England it was almost three-and-a­half percent." 
He maintains that the economy has remained more or less level. It has its good and bad times, hut "the economy will continue to grow at a rate ofeight-tenths ofone percent." 
Another myth discussed was that American workers have lost the edge in the competitive market. He stated, "It is true that exports have grown, but if we've lost our com­petitive edge then how come we're still expanding?" 
McKenzie feels the "We will he saved by the American campaign" is a fictitious idea also. He said. "Instead ofputtingMade in America tags on clothes, we should take off
The Notre Dame Alumni Association, jn cooperation with the 
the Made in Germany or Made in japan tags."
Career & Placement Services Office, will a,gain sponsor the 
That low wages are a source ofthe deficit problem was another myth 
discussed. McKenzie said. "If a country sells us goods, they buy goods from us. What we're doing is increasing the demand for U.S. 
Summer Job Placement Program in 1984. 
goo• "
If you are interested in applying for summer jobs in an alumni 
"Tl. 'ndustrial Policy advocates
club city, obtain an apptication from the Alumni Office, 
are mu rn idealists with a rnmantic vision," he claims. He docs not
201 Admin. Bldg. 
recommend government support of industrialism and opposes any type
Applications must be completed and returned by Nov. 30 
of industrial policy that favors one industry over another. 
''I'm not suggesting that there aren't any problems," he stated. "It's just that people don't understand that when you pick winners, you have losers also." 



The Observer Friday, November 18, 1983 -page 4 
Police arrest Greyhound strikers, non-union drivers continue service 
Associated Press 
Greyhound strikers dashed with police from coast 10 coast yesterday as th~· nation's larg~·st bus company n:sumed limitnl st·rvice with non­union drivers. More than 60 arn·sts and half a dozt·n injuries were 
r~·ported. 
Most buses carried only a few pas­sengas, but Greyhound called the turnout "'encouragin~" The AFL­CIO said the rt·sumption of service was an allempt to "'destroy" the uni­on and l·alled for a nati,mwide boycou ofGreyhound. 
Tne most violent outbursts were in San Francisco, where rocks and bottles were hurled at buses and workers as 300 strikers demonstrated in the rain, and in Seattle. where strikers smashed headlights, ripped wipers and mir­rors from moving buses and splat­tered eggs and bashed their placards against the vehides. 
Both the union and the company said they were far apart in negotia­tions, although they clucused at the same hotel in Phoenix, Ariz., across town from company headquarters. 
The union said ye::sterday it had reduced its wage and benetlts demands bv S60 million, but the company did not respond. 
The company, which provided 60 percent of America's intercity bus service before the strike. said it would run buses in only 27 states. 
Most of the arrests were in Bos­ton, where .~0 to SO strikers were haukd in after they stood in front of the familiar I0-ton red, white and blue Americruiser buses. 
One Boston policeman suffered a broken leg. and three or four others were also injured. 
In Philadelphia, hundreds of strikers, reinforced by Teamsters and unionized carpenters, plumbers and local transit workers, sur­rounded the bus terminal, stopping buses from leaving and forcing an in­bound bus to discharge its passen­gers several blocks away. 
At the loading area, the strikers burst through a police line, sur­rounded a bus and refused to let it budge. 
In response to the violence, Greyhound asked judges in Philadel­phia, San Francisco and Atlanta for 
injunctions limiting the number of 
pickets. A judge in Atlanta quickly 
agreed, ordering no more than two 
pickets at each entrance to the 
central bus terminal. 
The buses were the first to roll 
since Greyhound was struck two 
weeks ago by I 2, '00 bus drivers and 
terminal workers. 
The members ofthe Amalgamated 
Transit Union refused company 
demands that they accept big pay 
and benetlt cuts to keep Greyhound 
competitive with cut-rate airlines 
and bus lines. 
The AFL-CIO called on all union 
members and their families to ob· 
serve its boycott and asked ·its af. 
tllitated unions to "assist in every 
way possible" the Greyhound 
strikers. 
AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland 
said in a statement that the resump­tion of bus service amounted to "an attempt t o destroy their union." He . accused Greyhound of recruiting "strike breakers from America's army of unemployed," and he said putting inexperienced drivers be­hind the wheel was a "dangerous ad­
venture." 
Congress raises national debt limit 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Congress abandonnl all hope yesterday of major action this year to reverse the tidt: of budgetary red ink, as House and Senate negotiators worked on a plan that would extend thl· govern­mcnt's borrowing authority into next April. 
Final action on the debt limit hill was the last big obstade to<:ongres­sional adjournment for the year today. 
Thl· l·nd of the 198-4 battle to reduct: fnleral budget deficits was signaled Wednesday night when the 'ienate rcfused. 6';-:H. to nmsidt·r an ~~lH billion dt·ficit-reducing package of tax increases and spl·nding cuts proposnl hy Pete Domenici, R-N.M., and l~twton Chiles. D-Fla. 
Tht·n. after midnight. senators ap­proved. S8--l0, to reston· federal borrowing authority by raising the national tleht limit to SI.4S trillion. allowing the gov~·rnment to l'Xtend its nt:tlit hill until February. 
Thl· I Joust· alr~·ady had agreed to President Reagan's request to boost the cl'iling to S 1.61 <; trillion, which administration officials said would meet the government's borrowing needs through the end of the fiscal year next Sept. 30. The current c\·iling is S1.389 trillion. 
Negotiators from both chambers ~'>ught yesterday to compromise on a debt limit between the House and Senate figures. The White House expressed hope of covering credit needs for the full tlscal year, but con­gressional leaders said Reagan would have to settle for less. 
Senate Majority Leader Howard H. baker, R-Tenn., predicted a new debt limit extending into next April. "I think it'll go quickly," he said, and Speaker Thomas O'Neill agreed. 
According to Treasury Depart­ment officials, any delay in raising the credit lt1nir-wf1trtd cause some government checks to start bounc­ing by about Dec. I. 
The government has been operat­ing essentially Nil a cash-on-hand basis since Nov. I, the day after the Senate rejected raising the debt limit as a protest against record budget detlcits expected to hit S200 billion this fiscal year. 
Despite widespread concern about budget deficits, membcrs of Congress are rductant to do much more than talk about them without assurances that Reagan will support politically painful steps to reduce the deficits. 
After the Senate vote dismissing the Domenici-Chiles plan, Domenici said there probably will not be any major deficit-reduction action until after the 1984 elections. 



EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
SENIORS! 3rd ANNUAL BLOCK PARTY 
TODAY!!! 3:30-6:30 
in north Dome of ACC Food, Beverages, Music, Skating Come & Have Some Fun! Don't miss out!!! 
KITCHEN GOTHIC, A PLAY BY JULIE JENSEN NOVEMBER 17, 18 & 19 
8:00 P.M. SAINT MARY'S LITTLE THEATRE $1.00 

Dance Concert 
"We're On. A Roll" 

Saturday, Nov. 19·, 8:30pm Sunday, Nov. 20, 1:OOpm 
Chautauqua Ballroom 
Donations Gratefully Accepted 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 

The: O~t.T/Hamil C..:upero 

Paper plane pusher juniorAndy Cerniclzy uses his best salesman techniques in pus­bing paper airplanes at the North Dining Hall for students to throw during Saturday's football match agai~st Air Force. 

ltep 
AIOSTINO'S 
W~lcome Football Fans 
•..,.• 
& Local Patrons 


102 S. W1lnut St. South ltnd" 232·2484 
Talc• Eddy St., 1o 
Satn,He, tum RJvl'rl on Wolrwt 
Yr;Wr favorite Cocklails, fqmily RoOms ond Prfvote EntrMCe. Banquet-Rooms Available with ~n. to Create Your Own Menu. 

Friday, November 18, 1983 -page 5 
Tension in Western Europe grows as 'Soviet Empire' threat expands 
Assoclatt:d Press 
BERLIN -Just past Checkpoint Charlie, a few feet west ofthe Soviet Empire, the word "Solidarnosc," or Solidarity, is emblazoned on a tall building. Every so often, someone wonders whether Russian tanks will roll across and blast it ofr. 
Few expect an imminent Soviet invasion. But tension over NATO's imminent plans to install Pershing 2 and cruise missiles in Western Europe focuses attention on how the Kremlin sees the world. 
Soviet leader Yuri Andropov says, as his predecessors did, not only that Moscow promises not to launch a first nuclear strike but also that its conventional forces are maintained for defense alone. 
The danger. Western analysts say, is that Soviet strategists attach a 


ATTENTION 
Notre Dame Student P-layers in association with

ND SMC Council For The 
Music Theatre International

Retarded of Logan Center 
present 

will be collecting Air Force Foot~all Tickets {or its special clients. Generous 
Fiddler­

students can donate their tickets between 
4:30 -6:30 on Wednesday, Thursday, 
OnThe 

Friday at the dining halls (including St. 
.,?..,... Roof

Mary's). Also, anyone interested in helping the 
Council accompany these special persons 
Dec 1., 2, 3 8:00pm to the game should come to Logan Center 
O'Laughlin (SMC) 

at lO:OOam this Saturday. Tickets on Sale at S.U. Record Store 
•note time has been changed to 1O:OOam 
$3.50 All Seats Reserved
Thank you {or your cooperation 






SUNNYSIDE BEVERAGES 
-----------DRAFT ~EER-----------­BRAND COST D£POSIT TOTAL
ACROSS STREET 
--------------... ---------------------------------------­
FROM CAMPUS 112 BARREL PABST 19.50 b. 00 Js. s~ 
1340 S. Bend Ave. PABST Ill 30.50 b.OO 36. so ANDEHR 3UO b. 0~ 4(1. 50 BLATZ 27.00 b.OO n.oo OlD STYlE 31.00 b.oo 37.00 OLD STYLE LT 32.00 6.00 )8. 00 SP. EXPORT 35.00 b.O(I 41.00
234-1114 
DREWRYS 27.00 6. 00 B.OO BRA!m€ ISlER 15.00 6.(10 31.00
Michiana's Unlimited 
AUGSBURGER 31.00 b.Oo )1,00 HUBER 25.00 b. 00 31.00REE POSTERS SCHLITZ 31.50 b.OO 37.50 
Sight, Sound, &Taste 
Experience. 
SCHLI Tl Ll 32.50 b. 0(1 )8. ~0 OLD mWAUI:EE 29.00 b.OO 15.00 OLD ftiLWAUHE L1 JO.~O 6.0{1 Jb.OO SCHLITZ "All LIQUOR 34.00 b. 00 40. no
-featuring-
OPEN TILL 
SCHLITZ DAilk 31.50 b. 0(1 37.50
Half M iII ion Dollar Theatre Pipe Organ; 
"OLSON TAX 53. p~ b. 00 59.(10
5:00 Weekdays 
ALREADY
HARP 70.00 b.OO 76.00
Old Fashioned Ice Cream Parlour 
INCLUDED
2:00 Saturdays KEG BAG 
Twenty Four Varieties of Import Beers; 
2.00 2.00 HAND PU"P 1.00 1(1.00 J3.00
And a Wide 
CUFS 1/1001 4.00 4.00
Selection of Food Attractions; 
CUFS IICSE 10001 3i. 50 3~. ~0 ICE liB LB ~61 2. 50 2. 50 
Go East on Edison to Main St., 
GO IRISH!! TUB ].fill J5JI(I 18.110 Then North to Day Rd. 
COIL ~Ol 50.00 70.~0 1211.1~ ELECTRIC ~OX 11 60.(•(• 6(1, 00
259-0050 
~ORSE TAN~ 15.1)0 35.00 SO .frO 
wide range to what they consider as defense. 
"The Soviets are more than defensively aggressive, but not fool­hardy," said a respected Asian diplomat in Moscow. "They will not embark on something they cannot win -or with too high a cost." 
For example, the Soviet military invasion of Afghanistan on Christmas Eve, 1979, was explained as a response to a plea by a friendly neighboring government. 
"It's on our border," observed a Soviet journalist in conversation. "What do you expect?" 
Perhaps 125,000 Afghan civilians and guerrillas and 5,000 Soviet sol­diers have been killed so far in continuing war and reprisals. Soviet commentary suggests the human and material loss is not considered excessive, and the political cost has been relatively low. 
As elsewhere in the Soviet Empire, journalists' access is restricted. The British weekly observed recently: "The 55 American advisers in El Salvador rate much greater attention than the 105,00() Russian soldiers in Af­ghanistan, largely because the bloodshed in Central America is served up to American television viewers with their breakfast cornflakes." 
Afghanistan is the only country forcibly added to the Soviet sphere since the 1945 Yalta accords, but Cuba, Vietnam, Cambodia, Ethiopia and Angola have committed them­selves totally to Moscow. 
South Yemen provides full access to the island of Socotra, essential to the Soviet fleet in the Indian Ocean. 

Syria, Iraq and Libya account for most ofMoscow's $5 billion a year in arms sales. Other Third World states closely embrace the Soviet Union, relying on its military aid and politi­cal support. 
India and qther key non-aligned nations tread carefully to avoid offending Moscow, not only a vital source of arms but also the only counterbalance to a Western c:~pitalism that some leaders dis­trust. 
Moscow spends an estimated s~ billion a year on subsidizing Cuba and Vietnam, according to Western experts who acknowledge such a figure is impossible to determine ac­
curately. 
A recent British Foreign Office survey calculated Soviet non­military aid to the Third World last year at $8.3 billion, only 0.19 per­cent of its gross national product, and 76 percent went to Cuba, Mon­golia, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and Afghanistan. 
"They can only do so much," said a ranking State Department official in Was_hington, with wide Third World experience. "Their record for keeping friends without paying has not been great." 
The developing world is studded with Soviet white elephant projects 
built  in  the  name  of  lasting  
friendship  since  aid  was  first  
lavished  on  Kwame  Nkrumah's  
Ghana in the late 19SOs.  

• • . Pizza 
continuedfrom page I 
limited amount of 'out of pocket' money, but still want that late-night snack," said Hickey, "and the Leprechaun Pizza Company can be a real service to them." 
However, the new program has not caught on very quickly with the student population, and Hickey would like to sec a significant pick­up in business. He attributes the slow start to the fact that students are unaware of the new service. "People have told us that it is poorly 
he expects that new pizza boxes 
printed with money-saving 
coupons, free soda offers, and in­
creased publicity will boost sales 
and student awareness. 
Competition from individual hall pizza sales is also a reason for the company's limited success, but Hickey asserts that the food service's product uses better ingredients and is generally superior. 
Should business fail to increase, the Leprechaun Pizza C< mpany could eventually be diS<.''Jntinued. but Hickey remains optimistic. "We plan to give it enough time to catch on, and once students realize what a good deal it is, it should become more popular." 
Students can phone pizza orders to either the Huddle or the Oak Room during their regular business hours. 


..------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, November 18, 1983-page 6 
Notre Dame to lease replacement computer 
~.;.~
1 Apartments I 
~ 
S Wishes you a Happy Thanksgiving 
~ -Taking applications now for Fall '84-~ 
§ Call272-1441 ~ 
~JO"'...OOOOOOCOCCCCOOOOCOCOOOOOCC""J 
VlloL.Uf..'i To 42.8.00 ~EP~·tw4l. BINlll> 
NtJIWtllfA,Y 

~8.. :~-
Addreee -------­
Cit)~------State ­
lip 
Send check or lftOIICil orcla to SCRUBS 
P.O. Boa 595, Bethel Pull, PA 15102 
Shirt, S, M, L, $ 9.95 
Panta, S, M, L, $11.95 
Set, S, M, L, $19.95 
Circle eize and write In the number of SCRUBS 
(Plus $1.50 for Postage and Handling) 
McCarthy's EST.l983 

Special to The Observer 
The Univl·rsity has chosen the IBM 3033-l:t6 computer as there­phcement for the present mainframe system. The new machine will have more than twice the computing power of the current IBM 370 and will he installed during Christmas break. 
The Observer reported on Oct. 4 that the mainframe would be replaced; however, at that time the l'Xact choice ofsystem had nut been decided. 
The replacement computer will he leasl·d for two years. Richard Spencer, a'isistant provost for com;lllting, said the two-year l<:a'ie will allow a better assessment of long-rangl· computing needs while providing an interim solution for current high demand for computer time. 
"Wl' are in a state of flux right now, and it is diltkult to know what the computing load will be two yl·ars from now." Spencer said. He added that because of rapid ad· 
Moo: Monday Night Football ­Pitchers $2 during game Tues: Two for One Draft Two drafts .75 Wed: Talent and Ladies Nite ­
Happy Hourprices to ladies 
Thurs: Cheers Nite ­. 25 draft8-JOPM Fri: Pre-Game Nite ­
wake up the echoes with us! 
Sat: Sat. Morning Confusion ­


ministrative computing that hao; not 

SH IRT
WITH!Yi1P\JRCHASEOF 
yet been converted to the Hewlett­• . Limlt1 A 
Packard system installed in the Ad­ministration Building in June, 1982. 
N.D. Dome 
NDAve. 
Hill St. 
*McCarthy's 
vances in the microcomputer in­dustry, the need for a campus computer network is critical. 
The savings of the two-year lease, Spencer said, will allow work to begin on the network and give enough flexibility to keep up with technological advancements. 
An alternative to the two-year plan wa~ a five-year option on an IBM 30H I D that would deliver four times the current power, said Spen­cer. In addition to less flexibility be­cause of the longer commitment, Spencer said the 3081 D was not chosen because it would have re­quired a 5220,000 increase in the annual computing budget, an amount that might have jeopardized plans for the development of the campus network. 
The replacement mainframe will be installed in the Computing Cen­ter to support research computing, coursework needs and ad­

Tht-Obscrvcr/U.a.miJ Cupao 
FreshmanjeffCoyle works at one ofthe Prime-com­puter terminals in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering.
Tickling the keys 

The computer system waspurchased by the University at the beginning oftheyear. 
Irish Omelets 12.50; draft 7 AM .JOe up a dime every hour till noon 
* Last chance for dime drafts!!! * Sat.Afternoon Pre·Game Warm Up 
$2.00 pitchers 1-4:00 PM 
410 N.llill Mon-Thurs 11:00-1:00
"Last chance tor D B.'s you D.B.'s" Fri 1 1:00-2:00 
Full line ofPub c;rnh served daily Sat 7:00 A:W'-2:00AM 


Friday, November 18, 1983-page 7 
Catholic theology requirement not catholic 
Usually the rigors ot obtaining a checkmark card for advanced registration becomes an­other addition to my enjoyable college ex­periences. There is nothing better than getting up early and standing in line only to 
--------------:::-----­
-Dan Prinster 1 
, 1 
_Guest Opinion I 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
find out that the desired course closed five minutes earlier. 
However, during this advanced registration I experienced an additional impediment to my course selection when I asked to take a checkmark course in theology, more specifi­cally, Introduction to Asian Religions. Not only did I have to wait in line to get the course, but I was also questioned by a theology professor about which introduction to theol­ogy course I had taken, whether I had at­tended a Catholic high school, and why I wanted to take the course. 
I can understand why he would want to 
know my reasons for taking the course, but if 
attending a Catholic high school is a prerequi­
site to some courses, I would have taken that 
into consideration seven years ago. 
Even though only six credit hours of theol­ogy are required, it seems that the theology department still believes that six credit hours ofCatholic theology should be a requirement at a Catholic university. Trying to enforce their beliefs without stating it as an official university requirement is a definite infringe­menton the students' freedom ofchoice. 
Part of the argument for taking two semes­ters of Catholic theology seems logical. The 
I best place to take one of the courses is at a Catholic university. It would be a shame for a student to leave the uni versity without ex­periencing at least one Catholic theology course. However, Notre Dame is a liberal arts col­lege as well as a Catholic university, which means it should force the students to broaden their experiences. In "The Hesburgh Papers: Higher Values on Higher Education," Father Hesburgh states "The student must come to a basic understanding of the actual world in which he lives today. This means that the intellectual campus ofa Catholic university has "no boundaries and no barriers . " Asian religions are influential in today's world, and restricting the student,s' knowledge of these religions as well as any other aspect of religion would be a definite 

A couple of students were talking about pre-registration the other day. They seemed to be looking for some challenging courses outside their majors. 
"Damnit, I need a theology course, but I 
l\eith Picher­
Profundity's demise_ 

want my schedule to look like Digger Phelps's basketball schedule." 
The other paused a moment. 
"Did you ever think of taking Corporate Conscience?" 
"You mean that's cross-listed as a theology course? What'll they think of next, Upper­middle Income Theology 265'" 
"Well, I don't know. l hear there's an atheist teaching a course cross-listed in theology." 
The two continued to fill in their marksense forms, not having been challenged so much since the Iowa Test of Basic Skills. After a while, the second came across The Nuclear Dilemma in the course listings. Wondering if his friend knew ofthe course, he queried. 
"This nuclear war and peace class looks interesting. Should I take it under theology, philosophy, government and international relations, sociology, peace studies, economics, or communication and theatre?" 
"Those idiots! You mean to tell me they didn't list it under physics, architecture, medieval studies, or physical education? I bet you need to understand English to take the course, why wasn't it cross-listed under that?" 
He decided not to sign up for the class, and began to worry instead about fulfilliing his philosophy requirement. Having slept through Philosophy 201 his sophomore year, boundary or barrier. 
The more knowledge the .youth of today have about the world, the more prepared they will be to make the decisions of tomorrow. The liberal arts goal of broadening the stu­dents' experiences is just as important at Notre Dame as the Catholic experience. Course selection should reflect that fact. 
Another reason for desiring the students to take two semesters ofCatholic theology paral­lels the university's belief that Catholirs should experience spiritual growth while at a Cathoic university. But not all the students at Notre Dame are Catholic and are not looking for spiritual growth. during my checkmark course interview the questioning professor did not even ask me ifl was Catholic. 
On the other hand, Catholics looking for spiritual growth can obtain it in other ways besides taking two college theology courses. The most evident way is through the acces­
sible  Catholic  activities  and  services  on  
campus,  where  actions speak  louder than  
words.  

But another way in which spiritual growth can be attained is through the re-evaluation of one's religion from the completely different standpoint of another religion. I am sure that there are many students besides myself that 

feel confident enough about their own religion to learn about other religions and ·compare to their own. 
There are many devout Catholics who have never had a college theology course, but ex­perience spiritual growth through ecumenism. Restricting the type of required 
. theology course a student could take might end up couteracting the university's goal and instead hinder the student's spiritual growth. 
Basic requirements are anecessity at a uni­versity, and two semesters of theology are a necessity at a liberal arts college. Ifthe univer· sity requires two semesters ofCatholic theol­ogy it should state it officially. The theology department should not become autonomous, d eciding which student can take which class according to the department's unwritten re­quirements. 
If they want the students to take two Cath­olic theology courses, then officially increase the requirements to three semesters of theol­ogy, letting the students take whatever they want for their third semester. 
Under no circumstance should they turn a student away from taking a theology course, even though the prerequisites have been met, because someone in the department feels that that studen! is not ready for the class. 
The compromise of cross-listing 
he was looking for a second class which would be more interesting. 
"You know they could incorporate most of the philosophy department into the pre­professional programs. We've got philosophy oflawfor the lawyers-to-be, medical ethics for future doctors, business ethics, philosophy of science, and technology and society for people double-majoring in computers. Do you think we could come up with a philosophy of football for the football players?" 
"I don't think they could make it easier than Bobik's class; I bet it's been on the athletic deprutment's computer printout since Sorin came to South Bend." 
A scream interrupted their conversation, accompanied by an angry roommate who en­tered the ~om and slammed the cloO£< He was a senior majoring in accounting, economics, computers, philosophy, theology, and public administration. He didn't really intend to get a degree in anything but accounting, but figured he could get the classes he wanted by pretending to major in any course he took 

"Those S)%!( $!,"he said, "I went through all this trouble to get a couple of courses I wanted. Come to find out, the computer people prefer I not t:1ke the PL/I language in the math department, but take it in the com­puter department. 
"And the theology department doesn't want me taking non-Catholic theology courses toward my two-class requirement. I'd like to learn a bit about Asian religions before I graduate." 
"Well, you know they're only looking out for your best interests. Why don't you take some genuine theology course like Corporate Conscience?" 
"No, too much work. They might make me learn something." 
P. 0. BoxQ 

(Penn State)-In my opinion Coach Faust, who is called a good and decent man, ought to do the good and decent thing -resign! His teams look terrible, play poorly, and have not Dear Editor: measured up to their own statistics and 
Paul McGinn makes an interesting state­abilities. ment regarding ABC's movie "The Day After" I lived through Kuharich and Devore. Both in his November 1 7 editorial. had great players, as we do now. Both 
"Ground Zero and the Center for Social coaches, as today, could not motivate or Concerns at Notre Dame also are planning a coach college players. Please, Coach, turn discussion ofthe film Monday at 7 p.m. to give your great, All-Americans over to a coach who proponents and opponents of nuclear war a can win "must-win" games. chance to air their comments on the movie." john E. Scully '64 
A slip? Maybe. A Freudian slip? Probably. 
Freudian slip 
jack McLaughlin Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily mnstraints of the page. They must bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the

Must-win games 
author(initials andpseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Letters must be well-written and Dear Editor: typed. Material shorter than 250 words will 
I just finished reading Mike Sullivan's receive priority. All letters are subject to column in The Observer. It's about one hour editing and become the property of The Ob· after N.D. lost another "must win" game server. 

Editorial Board  DepartmentManagers  
Editor-in-Chief..---------....................David Dziedzic  
P. 0. BoxQ,NotreDame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmot·  Business Manager ... ....___ .._____ Christopher Ov ·en  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l 'ni­ E>:ecuti1•e Editor.................._, _____ ,_____ ,.Paul McGinn  Controller ........._________  ............._____ ..________ Alex Szih <L~  
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide  Aduertising Manager___  ....Jeanie Poole  
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­ Neu•s Editor____ ..__________ .,_., ___________ ... _Mark w·orscheh  Circulation Manager _______ _, ................Mark Mi<Jtto  
curately and as objectively as possible. llnsigned editorials represent the opinon of a  Saint Mary•'s Editor ........___ ., _____Anne Monastyrski  .\)•stems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentarie~, letters, and the Inside Column present  Sports Editor ................._______ ..___ ., __ Michael Sullivan  Composition Manager.............Suzanne La Croix  
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to al!-!llembers ofthe community.  Features Editor...________ .,..................Sarah Hamilton  
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus. th~tters, "is encouraged.  Photo Editor ............................. .. ________ ..Scott Bower  

Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer Friday, November 18, 1983 -page 8 

-~PARKER 
BROTHERS 


ScotcH® 
BRAND 
VHS T-120 

plus S6Q00 in accessory rebate coupons with SALE PRICE 
iiijl 
purchase of the Atari 2600 System!

A. $8~~ 
ATARI 
Atari 5200 System 
Si!le $15999
Pnce 
Less 
-saooo
Rebate 


discwasher® 

maxell 90-MINUTE 2-PACKS
PoiNTM~5aTEnn. 

LN-90 UD-90 
13.99 IS.99 
Reg. s499 Reg. S699 UDXLI-90 
$2000 "~" 
UDXLII-90 
RE~~~~ -~a(J~~A 11.99 
PROGRAM , ~ "'tlfe .S799 
CAMEIDJ'~ IS,:.u.:•c ...~:.~';:::..., 

ONIVERSITY PARK MALL 
272-4186
MUSIC~ MOREl 


Friday, NQvember 18, 1983 • page 9 
an Obsei'Ver sports supplement 


Building character 
Blair Kiel understands how it feels to be a non-great Irish QB 
Fame is a vapor 
Popularity an accident 
Riches take wing 
Those that cheeryou today 
Will curseyou tomorrou• 
One thing endures ... character. 
-Horace Greeley, on his death bed 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
At Notre Dame, quarterbacks for the football team are split into two categories -great and non-great. The great -the 13 All-Americans, the four Heisman Trophy winners, the eight who led the Irish to national championships, and the two 
Blair Kiel 
Irish quarterback 
\_ 
}. 
' 

that have led their pro squads to Super Bowl 
glory the last two years -are deified to immor­
tality in the Notre Dame pantheon. 
The non-great are damned into undue suffer­ing. In the last I9 years, there have been five such quarterbacks. 
In I965, Bill Zloch was the quarterback be­tween I964 Heisman Trophy winnerJohn Huarte, who led the Irish to a No. 3 ranking, and a sophomore superstar named Terry Hanratty wpo would lead the Irish to No. 1 in 1966. Zloch tearfully broke_down late in the year when he realized that he did not meet the quality ofexcellence set by his predecessors. 
In I971, CliffBrown was the quarterback af­
ter a quarterback whose named rhymed with 
Heisman, and before another quarterback the 
following year, Tom Clements, who would lead 
the Irish to the I973 national championship. 
Not being great was bad enough, but the fact that he was a black man in a traditional white man's role led to one ofthe uglier scenes in Notre Dame athletic annals. The racial insults and overall questions ofhis competence drove Brown to become a defensive and abrasive per­son at times. 
Rick Slager and Rusty Lisch were successors to the Clementsera, and set the stage for theJoe Montanaera Both had to endure the boos from their own student body in their own home stadium. 
They were four of the men who saw the dark side ofbeing a Notre Dame quarterback. But there was a special ending in their careers that never showed up on any stat sheets. Each had maintained the respect and admiration oftheir teammates for the way they carried themselves 
see KIEL, page 11 
Getting even: 

By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
A popularObserver column last year called "The Bot­tom Ten" gave the Patrick Henry "Give me Uberty or give me Garden State, but gl'le mesomething" award to Alabama last year after it lost its third game ofthe year. 
Guess who wins the Patrick Henry award this year? 
Contingent upon defeating the Air Force Academy on Saturday afternoon, Notre Dame will close out its season at Memphis, Tenn., on December 29 in the Liberty Bowl. 
Last year, ofcourse, a victory over Air Force would 

have ensured a Bluebonnet Bowl bid for the Irish. A 
tremendous wishbone attack by the Falcons, however, 
'i<juelched any ofthose hopes last year. Ironically, that 30­
1 7 loss by the Irish came after a heartbreaking loss to 
Penn State the previous week, and also after the Falcon 
team had two week.~ -like thisyear -to preparefor the 
Irish. 
The victory over the Irish was the springboard for the Falcons in regaining national respect in college football under the tremendous guidance ofHead Coach Ken Hat­field Not only were its eight wins last year the second greatest number ofvictories in its 28-year history, but its victory over Vanderbilt in the Hall ofFame Bowl last year marked Air Force's first bowl triumph ever. 
With Air Force holding a 7-2 record, including a cur­rent five-game winning streak, and returning a wealth of 1:xpericnce from last year's talented squad, Notre Dame Head Coach Gerry Faust realizes that he may be in for an­other difficult game. 
"I would hope our players would feel like they have 

something to prove after what Air Force did to us out 
Notre Dame tries to deal with Falcon flexbone so that it can get revenge and be free to go to Liberty Bowl 
there last year," says Faust, "but that isn't going to make it any easier for us. They've had an extra week to prepare for us, just like last year, and that can make a real dif­femce." 
"Air Force has 18 seniors and juniors among its 22 starters and that means they have got an awful lot ofex­perience to call on. They got over the hump by having a winning season and going to a bowl last season, and this year they've just followed through on that success." 
Don't be surprised ifthe game has a similar offensive domination by both teams like last week's Notre Dame­Penn State game did. The Falcons are similar to pro foot­ball's San Diego Chargers. When their offense is on ­which is most ofthe time -they are a tough force to reckon with. Their defense, however, is not that great ofa force. In other words, they'll score on you, but they will also be scored upon. 
Notre Dame's defense, oft-criticized for being too slow, will have a difficult challenge in handling the small but quick Falcon offensive unit. Although the offensive front line has four ofits five starters weighing 240 pounds or less -which gives the Irish about a 25-to 30-pound advantage per man -Air Force will try to compensate with the same quickness that stunned the Irish last year. 
The Air Force backfield is experienced, balanced, and very talented. The rushing attack spredded the Notre Dame defense for 284 yards last year, and is averaging 335 yards a game this year. In the last two weeks the Notre Dame defense has given up more yards rushing to Pitt and Penn State then it has to any other team all year. They could ill-afford to continue this downslide against a ground-oriented team like Air Force. 
Heading the unit is All-American quarterback can­didate Marty Louthan. He ha~ rushed for over 648 yards and I 5 touchdowns this year while averaging more then five yards a carry. ~year he rushed for II 5 yards on I5 carries against the Irish and scored two touchdowns. 

Louthan, though he averages only I I passes a game, has thrown for over 1,000 yards this year while averaging al­
most 20 yards per completion. 
FullbackJohn Kershner is the leading rusher with 713 yards and also averages more than five yards a carry. Al­though starting halfbackjody Simmons has been suspended for the Notre Dame game, Mike Brown is a very capable replacement. Brown has run for 5 3I yards and is averaging an amazing eight yards per carry. 
Wide receiver Mike Kirby is the one-man wrecking crew for the Air Force passing attack as he has caught 32 passes for 738 yards. 
The Falcon defense has great shortcomings. Their seven up-front people in their defense average out to 6-2, 215 pounds. The unit has given up an average f 425 yards a game. Yet, it has also been known to be quite scrappy at times. IfNotre Dame can pick up where it left off last Saturday against Penn State in terms ofoffensive efficiency -the Irish rolled up 526 yards oftotal offense against the Nittany Lions -then Air Force's ground con­trol game will be hard pressed to keep up with Notre Dame whose defense was ranked No. 3 in the nation before last week's game. 
"They're playing with much the same team they had a year ago, and we've just got to adjust to the kind ofgame they play," says Faust. "We didn't do a very good job of that a year ago." 
Another bad job this year will mean death -not 
Liberty -to another Notre Dame football season. 
~~==-~;e~,a~,·~w=m~&W£~'~12~'~----~-~~;e•~-•~s~~~ 


AIR FORCE Frtiday, November 18, 1983 · page 10 
A Farewell Appearance 
Some lesser-known seniors look to life after ND 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports IJ'riter 
b'l·ryhody knows that Blair Kid, Stacey Toran. Rick Naylor: jon Autry and others like them art· playing their final home g~mc Satur­day. But there will he other seniors in uniform Saturday. fhese pl~yns grab few headlines, hut make solid contribution~. 
!'>ome kad thl· speciality teams. Others help prepare the team for the Wt'l'kl·nd's oppont·nt. There arc still others who may have ~tarrnl at other schools. but chose Notre Daml' 10 he a part ofthl' tradition. 
John Mosky is the ll'adu oftht· Notre Dame spl'ciality teams. He wears number -tH. On Saturday afternoons Mosely can he seen leading hb unit downfidd in kamikazce-like pursuit ofopposing ball t·arrkrs. More importantly Mosley is recognized as one ofthis year's tri-t·aptains. . . 
"It's an honor 10 he a l·aptain," he said. "As a leader on spenaltty teams, my job is to make thl· tackle or at least he the first one downlidd." 

I· Mosley started his Notre Dame career as a member ofthe _of ti:nsive unit. lie played both tailback and wingback durmg hts fresh­man and sophomore t·ampaigns. In 19H I ht· started the last six games at winghack. As a member of the offensive unit, Mosley has two 10uchdowns to his credit. Mosdy made thl· transition from offense to defense midway through thl· 19H2 StJringdrills. fie saw action in all II games last fall and colk<.'ted 2-! tackles. This yt·ar, aside from his role on specialty teams, he plays as back­up to Pat Ballagc at weaksidc cornerback. . As Mosdy looks back over his four years, he notes that not all ofhts mt·moril's arc pkasant ones. "It has been an experience," he says. "( )ne day you're sitting high and mighty. The next day, you're working ti>r a spot. Ir has forced me to be more mentally tough. more patient, and more disdplined. Each time I'm in the game, I pretend char it may be my last. so I rake gn:ar pride im my work and in being ready evny timl·." Acn·pting his limited rok as a senior has nor been easy, and as he looks ahl·ad, more emotions are stirred. "As a senior you like to be able to put ir all together and perhaps see what you come out with," he says. "This has been more ofa sincere type ofyear for me. No_ one rt·ally undt·rstands what it is like ro be a senior. As each year wm_ds down and down, you ~et: that it just doesn't stretch out as far as tl sn·ms it could." ( >ne of his more plea~ant memories came against Alabama his freshman year. "W'e were waiting for a kickoff," he recalls. "I. was back with Jim Stone and I told him to rake ir no matter where It went. 1was roo nervous. The hall came right to me, though, so alii could do wa~ catch it. I returnt·d it 20 yards, and suddenly I felt pretty good." After graduation, the economics major from Omaha, Ncb., has in­tcrvit-ws schedult-d with NHC and ABC. He may work at a bank or rake some rime off and go to Europe and relax. "These have been soml' pretty intl·nse years," he says. "I just need some rime to think things out." -~ 
Tom Cushing is a quarterback. Many may nor know this since, ovt-r the last thret· years, his only varsity appearance came in this year's Army game wht·n he played in the last few minutes, and com­pktnl one pa~s. 
( :ushing's role is an important one, though. Aside from keeping stats on thl· siddine, tht· 6-1. I HS-pound acn>Unting major from La (irangc, 111.. kad~ the prep team during practice sessions. Cushing and other prep team members must run the offense ofrhe next Notrt· Dame opponent in ordl·r to prepart· the defense for the game. 
As a quartnhat·k during three ofhis four years in high schoc~l, Cus­hing's teams lost just four games. Three ofthe losses came dunng hts senior year. 

As a freshman at Notre Dame, Cushing played interhall football un­til he suffered an ankle injury. Being away from football influenced him to try out as a walk-on his sophomore year. "I missed the activity and the competition," he explains. "Seeing the atmosphere around Notre Dame towards football made me want to be a part of it." 
Being prep team quarterback is not always easy, hut Cushing en­joys the challenge. "Being able to help the team out and scemg myself improve, makes it worth it," he says. "The beginning of the week is fun because the defense isn't yet familiar with the plays. But if I'm doing well at the end of the week, then something i~ wrong. If they're stopping us, though, personally I don't like it, but I know we've helped them." 
Cushing will take the LSAT in December. Law school or employ­ment near Chicago arc his future considerations at this time. 
Flanker Mike Favorite wa~ recruited by schuols in the BigTen, the Midwest, Arizona, and Vanderbilt. as well as the Ivy League. He chose Notre Dame though. "I always wanted to play ar Notre Dame," he says. "It was always something special whenever I talked to the people here." 
Favorite joined the Irish traveling squad his junior yearand played in five games. Freshman year he played only with the junior varsity. hut sophomore year he moved up and saw action in six games. 
Learning to play both split end and flanker has increased Favorite's chances to play this season. "Playing wide receiver. guys come in and out a lot, so I know I'll play either for joe (Howard) or Milt (Jackson)," he says. "I like rhe feeling ofbeing able to contribute. It's also nice to know that I will have earned my first letter." So far, Favorite has made eight catches for 123 yards. 
His first letter is not all that he has earned this year. Favorite was reccntlv selected as a recipient ofthe National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame Scholarship Athlete Award. The award is given to athletes who have demonstrated excellence in both athletics and academics. It carries with it a $3,000 grant. "When I got the letter. I was surprised to sec the word 'congratulations,'" he recalls. "I wa~ very honored. It reflects on the University and that makes me proud too." 
As of now Favorite is not sure what his future holds. 'Til probably apply to MBA schools,'' he says. "I really haven't decided" 
Kevin Smith was a highly-recruited quarterback from Saguaro High School in Scottsdale, Ariz. In his career, he threw for 3.557 yards and 29 TO's. When it came time to make his decision, he had narrowed his choices to UCLA, Stanford, Arizona, and Notre D!iime. "To play ar Notre Dame is what I always wanted to do," he says. "I thought they had lost interest, though, when they hadn't called for a while. Suddenly Dan Devine called and said he wanted to talk to me. Then I made my decision. It would be Notre Dame." 
Torn ligaments suffered during his freshman year "dropped me to the bottom going into spring." He has worked as prep team quarter­back until becoming number three quarterback this season. "It's b.e~n frustrating," he says. "I'm always hoping to get the chance to play, so I've wanted ro be ready ifcalled upon." . 
Because he missed his freshman campaign, Smith has a red-shtrt year still available, but is unsure about what will happen. "I have to talk to Coach Faust," he says, "bur so far they haven't expressed inter­est in (my staying)." 
IfSmith doesn't stay ar Notre Dame,lhe will probably go to MBA school. "It's a good possibility," he says. 

Walk-on linebacker Tom Murphy has seen only spot duty over the last three years. His main job has been on the specialty teams, where he earned his letter last year. 
Although highlyrecr~ited by Indiana and Purdue, Murphy chose Notre Dame for family reasons. "We're a Notre Dame family," he ex­plains. "My dad is a law professor. I've been brought up with Notre Dame. It was the only school I was going to go to whether they of­ti:red or not. I alsn wanted a school that offered a good education as 
well as good athletics." 
The accounting major will be in­terviewing for jobs in South Bend and Chicago a~ well as raking the LSAT in December. 

As a walk-on, playing football can he difficult. but Murphy has no regrets. "Looking back. I'm glad I did it," he says. "It wa~ a lor ofwork but it wa~ worth it." 
Since Daane Spielmaker began his career ar Notre Dame. he has played a host of positions in the defensive hack­tleld. He has seen action ar both safety slots as well as helping in the nickel defense. He saw action in eight games last season and wa~ credited with seven stops. So far this season Spidmakcr has made four stops while playing backup ar strong safety. Freshman year he played in the last seven games including the Sugar Howl. 
tie ha~ seen more action of late, and is pleased with the turn ofevents. "It feels good to be considered a part of the team," he says ... After all the years ofhard work, it's good to get in and do some­thing." 
Spielmaker will soon start interview­ing ti>r jobs in which his marketing degree can be put ro usc. 


Hard work is something that typifies Greg< pounds, Golic didn't start playing football unt joseph High School in Willowick, Ohio. 
Until 1983, with the exception ofone a sophomore, Golic has mainly seen duty with hard work paid off this season, though, as he fensive tackle against Michigan State and M 
"I've always considered myselfa hard quit ar anything. Seeing myself improve and i has kept me going. And, by getting a chance toll way that people could set:." 
Younger brother Mike is on the team now, is a former All-American linebacker at Notre with the Cleveland Browns. 
Coming ro Notre Damt: was an easy want to go any place else,'' he says. "I had the the Ivy League, but I wouldn't have been 
After school, football is a possibility for< being, he is looking ar tht· job marker for a management major. 
i 
Defensive tackle Jerry Weinle got his name I Dame record books this sea~on as he became· Dave Casper to play both offense and defense played both defensive tackle and split end aga 1972. Weinle went both ways when the Irish, played both offensive guard and nose tackle. " nice," he admits, "but it was no big deal. I jus~ needed a man, and I could do it, so I got sent i 
Weinle has.worked at llip tackle where heel 
year. playing in all but the opener against Mid Aside from starring at guard against Miami rh only spot duty. 
As Weinle tries to decide what he will dow engineering degree, he also thinks back on hi~ periencc. "It was a dream come true for me t<J he savs. "Notre Dame is the hesr football scho also ~alues academics, and. because I am an cJ tant to me." 
Although these are only eight of22 seniors 1 
final time Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. e1 
t(>r the others the spirit of Notre Dame foorba 
contrihuting in a positive way behind the see: 
ball in order to go to school and attain a true • 
going to school just to play football. 
All 22 seniors may not hear their name callc they have received something ar Notre Dame professional contract -the knowledge that t Notre Dame football tradition. 
Mosely suggests a theory that should keep rc ers, and even students, thinking in a positive v person to survive at Notre Dame. They reach yc here for a reason, because you're a winner. Nor here. Everyone here is a winner in their own Dame all the way around." 



AIR FORCE Friday, Nqvember 18,1983 ·page 11 
Stacey Toran 
Graduating cornerback 
Toran and Brown 
Two instant hits leave ND slightly disappointed 
ByALGNOZA 
Sports Writer 
Two ofthe mainstays ofthe Irish defensive secondary will be playing for the last time in Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday. Chris Brown and Stacey Toran are reaching the twilight oftheir college career, leaving Notre Dame at a time wher: the Irish football outlook is decidedly less than rosy. 
The bleakness that coincides with their departure, however, is ironically parallel to the ray ofhope the two to shed upon the dreary mood that prevailed at the close oftheir rookie season at the Dome. 
It wasJanuary of I 981 and the Irish loyalists were left scratching their heads. The mighty men in green had lost their last two games of the year -to Southern Cal and Georgia -while at the same time dropping from the top spot in the polls to a god-forsaken ninth. Their record that year was a decent 9-2-1. Nothing for Grantland Rice to write about, but loads better than the 7-4 debacle of'79. 
The misgivings ofthe present were overshadowed, however, by the promise ofthe future. Thirty-nine lettermen returned from that Sugar Bowl squad for the 1981 season, along with 16 starters and a defense that could stopa clock just by looking at it. Brown and Toran were prominent members ofthat defense, precocious youngsters who contributed greatly as freshmen and seemed destined to one day return the Irish to the top. 
To the top they went, but only for a short week. Then down they went. The proposed return trip to the top turned out to be a rest stop on a lengthy skid to the depths ofmediocrity. For the past three years the Irish have compiled a cumulative record of 17-14-1, abstaining completely from the final polls. And, as for post-season play, it's give me Liberty in '83 or another Christmas break at home. 
High hopes have died during this drought, giving way to 
widespread discontent and disappointment. It's sort oflike Bill Wal­
ton marrying Nancy Lieberman and having a son grow up to be a 
jockey. Bum Phillips, the wisest philosopher since Casey Stengel, 
said it best. "Potential is just a fancy way for saying you ain't done it 
yet." 
The Irish certainly had the potential. But needless to say, they ain't 
done it. 
"Per-sonally I'm very disappointed because I felt we had the 
talent," Brown says. "We've had a lot ofbad breaks though, and things just haven't gone our way. People didn't expect us to do as well my freshman year. But we surprised them. Then during my sophomore year we ran into an extremely tough schedule. We 

looked past a lot ofteams thinking they would roll over and play dead because we were Notre Dame. But last year teams like Air Force showed us that wasn't to be. They soundly beat us. Period." 
Toran points to adjusting to a new coach as the root ofthe problems. "It hasn't been a disappointing three years fot me because you have to realize that we've all gone through a learning process. It's tough to adjust to a new coach and a.new system." 
Whatever the case may be, the Irish have come under heavy fire. Gerry Faust has been ruthlessly treated like a person who's not supposed to have feelings. So, in fact, have Brown and Toran. It was Brown who was christened as goat after the Purdue game in 1981. Toran also has often been a favorite target for the pointed finger of arm-chair quarterbacks. 
"Everyone has their opinion," says Toran. "That's fine. I don't take 
it as a criticism. I just try to blank it out." 
The 6-4, 206-pound Indianapolis native should be summoned in this spring's NFL or USFL drafts. His quickness and overall athletic ability enable him to bea top-knotch cornerback prospect, and, with a concentrated weight-gaining effort, he could even be considered as a linebacker. "Right now I'm thinking about Air Force," he says. ''I'm still in college so pro ball is not on my mind." 
Brown has also shown himself to be a hot pro prospect. In the wake ofthe team's misfortunes, Brown has maintained a continuous personal development. The goat label has long been dead. "Hard hit­ter" and "tough man-to-man defender." They are the new labels. 
"I think the other guys in the defensive backfield like Stacey, Troy (Wilson), and Joe (Johnson) are quicker than me," he confesses. "But playing underJohn Krimm I learned the mental aspect of the game. He taught me that you don't have to be the greatest athlete to cover a guy one-on-one. Sure, he had a lot oftalent, but he became -great because he applied what he learned. Ifyou apply what the coaches tell you, then you won't make mental mistakes." 
This may be Brown's last college game, unless the Liberty Bowl 
gets its wish. When asked about the prospect ofplaying in the Bowl, 
Toran states exactly what was on his mind. 
"Air Force," he says. 

Living for the day. Faded hopes will do that. 
olic. At 6-7, 263 Ihis senior year at St. 
trance against Navy as the junior varsity. His lrned two starts at of­
li. 
,"he says. "I've never ·orne a better player start, it paid off in a 
d older brother Bob 
e. He now plays 
for Golic. "I didn't pportunity to go to 
there." ·, but for the time e to utilize his 
ded to the Notre 
e first player since 1 a game. Casper 1st Michigan State in layed Army. He 'he publicity was 
·anted to help. They 
ned a monogram last gan. s season, he has seen 
th his mechanical Notre Dame ex-play at Notre Dame," 
I in the country that ginecr. that is impor­
ho will suit up for the ·h of them manifests -fulfilling a dream. e~. and playing foot­ucation rather than 
at theNFl. draft. But hat will outlast any cy were a part ofthe 
-erves as well as start­ay. "It takes a strong u how to win. You're ·veryone makes it in ay. A:td that is Notre 
Chris Brown 
• • • Kiel 
Graduating safety 


continued from page 9 
through all the trials. Each had character. 
For Blair Kiel there is no denying that he takes with him a lot ofbitterness. Yes, he will al­ways have fond memories ofall the friends he has made while at Notre Dame. Yes, he is proud ofthe high-quality education he attained, and he is proud that he will receive his marketing degree in time with the rest of his senior class next May. 
But, as for shedding tears ofsentiment in his final home football game this weekend, forget it. Enough tears have been shed in private during his tumultuous four-year quarterback­ing regime at Notre Dame. A person can only take so much of the confusion, so much ofthe mocking, so much ofthe blasting, that he has had to endure as quarterback for Notre Dame. 
Like the aforementioned four quarterbacks, Kiel will be categorized in Notre Dame annals as a non-great quarterback. No Reisman can­didacy, no national championship ring, and doubtful Super Bowl capabilities. 
Notre Dame fans in the New Jersey Meadowlands, apparently very well versed in the art ofkicking someone when he is down, reminded him ofthose failures and unfulfill­ments earlier in the year. Entering the game in a mop-up role against Army, he was greeted with boos, insults, and mocking laughter from many in the crowd. 
Minutes later, the Notre Dame sideline was in 
pandemonium. Kid had just bulled over a 
defender for a touchdown. It wasn't a game­
winning touchdown by any means-actually it 
put the Irish up by 42 points -but the joy that 
his teammates felt for his success could not be 
contained. There was a tremendous respect 
that they held for this man because ofthe 
character he maintained despite being 
relegated permanently to the sidelines after the 
Mian1i game. 
"The team thought enough of me to vote me 
as their otlensive captain," says Kiel. "I felt that I 
owed them at least something in return for their 
vote ofconfidence." .......,., · 
While his teammates and coaches have filled 
pages with quotes admiring the leadership and 
strong character he has continued to display in an adverse situation, one person can put it in better perspective than anyone else. 
"From the moment I arrived, Blair took me under his wing," says freshman quarterback Steve Beuerlein, the man who is beingtagged as the next great Notre Dame quarterback. "Naturally when Ibecame a starterit was a very tough time for him, and he was deeply hurt. But the great thing is that it hasn't affected our relationship at all. He's helped me with my studies and with just anything that makes it easier for me to adjust. There has been absolute­ly no jealousy or anomosity." 
To the brash youngwarrior, Beuerlein, Kiel is the venerable chiefwho has given constant advice and wisdom to Beuerlein -a luxury that Kiel himselfnever had. "He's helped more than anybody ever could, because he knows more than anybody ever could about the quar­terbackingpostion at Notre Dame," says Beuer­Jein. "He's warned me on what things to watch out for and told me about the people who I can trust and not trust and how to properly deal with such situations." 
"I don't want him to have to go through some 
ofthe things I did." says Kiel. 
But the most important thing that Beuerlein 
has learned from Kiel is that respect as a person 
is just as important as respect as a quarterback. 
"That's what's really important. especially at 
a place like Notre Dame where football is not 
everything," says Beuerlein. "Blair is a perfect 
example ofthe class ofpeople Notre Dame 
turns out through his character. He had several 
opportunities to turn against that kind of mold 
because ofall the things he has had to go 
through. but he didn't. Instead he went out of 
his way to contribute in some way for the 
people around him." 
"I respect him as much as anybody in my life. 
He's a great, great, person. and you wouldn't 
find anvone on the team who wouldn't agree." 
Like 'ztoch, Brown. Slager, and Lisch. Blair 
Kiel doesn't leave a legacy ofAll-American 
honors or national championships. That fact 
hurts because, deep down, he feels that he had 
enough talent to accomplish those goals. 
But, like the others, Kid leaves a legacy 
which shows that the mark ofa winner extends 
far beyond what a stadium scoreboard or stat 
sheet says. 


AIR FORCE Friday, Nqvember 18, 1983 ·page 12 
NOTRE DAME vs. AIR FORCE 
THE GAME THE STATISTICS 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Air Force Falcons SITE: Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) TIME: 12:30 p.m. EST; Saturday, Nov. 19, 1983 
lV-RADIO: ABC Regional Telecast ( Ch. 28) Keith Jackson and Frank Broyles 
Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network Harry Kalas and George Connor 
Notre ~arne-Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and AI Wester WNDU-AM 1500 
SERIES: Notre Dame 11, Air Force 1 LAST MEETING: November 20, 1982 Air Force 30, Notre Dame 17 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame unrankcd, Air Force unrankcd TICKETS: Game is sold out 
THE SCHEDULE 
NOTRE DAME AIR FORCE SEPT. I 0 def. Purdue, 52-6 SEPT. 3 def. Colorado St., 34-13 SEPT. 17 lost to Mich. St., 28-23 SEPT. 10 def. Texas Tech, 28-13 SEPT. 24 lost to Miami (Fla.), 20-0 SEPT. 17 lost to Wyoming, 14-7 OCT. 1 def. Colorado, 27-3 SEPT. 24 lost to BYU, 46-28 OCT. 8 def. South Carolina, 30-6 OCT. 8 def. Navy, 44-17 OCT. 1') def. Army, 42-0 OCT. 15 def. Texas-EI Paso, 37-25 OCT. 22 def. Southern Cal, 27-6 O<..T. 22 def. Utah, 33-31 OCT. 29 def. Navy, 28-12 OCT. 29 def. Army, 41-20 NOV. '> lost to Pittsburgh, 21-16 NOV. 5 def. Hawaii, 45-10 NOV. 12 lost to Penn State, 34-30 NOV. 19 at Notre Dame NOV. 19 AIR FORCE NOV. 26 at San Diego State 


TEAM STA11STICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG
The 

TOTAl OFFENSE YARDS 4200 2747 Pinkett 10 225 1197 53 15 53 Total Plays 742 663 Smrth 10 72 389 5.4 1 37 Yards per Play 5.7 4.1 Francisco 9 41 202 4.9 033
Seniors 

Yards per Game 420.0 274.7 Brooks 10 34 176 5.2 2 31 PENAL TIES· YARDS 66-667 58-508 Bell 5 37 169 4.6 450 FUMBLES-LOST 19-8 23-9 Machtolf 3 14 78 5.6 0 13 TOTAl FIRST DOWNS 219 164 Howard 10 4 61 15.2 030 By Rushing 124 69 Flemons 2 13 52 4.0 034 By Passing 82 81 Grooms 1 2 33 16.5 0 25
Blair Kiel 

By Pena~y 13 14 Abraham 7 13 32 2.5 11 Stacey Toran THIRD DOWNS-CONV 73-153 51-147 M1ller 10 1 19 19.0 0 19 Percentage .477 347 Carter 1 2 9 4.5 0 9
Jon Autry 

POSSESSION TIME 31441 285.19 Jackson 10 1 1 10 0 1 Chris Brown Minutes per Game 3128 28.32 Kiel 10 17 -7 -0.4 1 7 Beuerle1n 9 26 -9 -0.3 0 19
Mike Favorite 

PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO 
Greg Golic NO 10 502 2402 4.8 24 53 OPP 10 393 1190 3.0 834
Bauerlein 9140 74 .529 51058 4
Mike Johnston 

Kiel 10 93 48 .516 6 625 5
Steve Keane DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK
Pinkett 10 1 1.000 0 59 0 
Howard 10 1 1 1.000 0 29 1
Neil Maune 

FurJamc 129 3-5 4 0 0
K. Smith 7 2 1 .500 0 15 0John Mosley Cushing 2 1 1 1.000 0 12 0 Naylor 64 1-2 2 0 0 
Kovaleski 62 2-4 4 0 0
Grooms 2 0 .000 0 0 0
Tom Murphy 

Gohc 54 10-28 1 2 0 Ballage 49 2-4 6 1 0Rick Naylor NO 10 240 126 .525 11 1798 10 Johnson 47 4-23 3 2 0
OPP 10 270 142 .526 141557 9
Mike Shiner 

Gann 42 2-9 1 0 0 Kevin Smith Brown 35 0-0 5 0 0 
RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
Autry 33 3-11 0 1 0
Daane Spielmaker 

Toran 21 0-0 1 0 0 Howard 10 25 374 15.0 1 58
Mike Walsh Bars 20 0-0 0 0 0 
Pinkett 10 23 195 8.5 2 59 
Dingens 19 3-9 3 0 0Jerry Weinle Bavaro 10 20 348 17.4 3 59 
Dorsey 19 2-3 1 0 0 Jeff Banko Wilson 18 1·24 1 1 0
Jackson 10 18 380 21.1 2 61 
Smrth 10 11 123 11.2 26 
Gnffin 17 1-1 0 0 0Tom Cushing Favorrte 8 8 123 15.4 0 18 D1Bemardo 13 2-3 2 0 0 Jim Farmer Marshall 10 0-0 1 1 0
Bell 5 6 65 10.8 1 23 Francisco 9 5 51 10.2 0 15 
Murphy 8 0-0 0 0 0Dave Meadows Jefferson 10 3 47 15.7 0 16 
Lawrence 7 0-0 2 1 0 Miller 10 2 43 21.5 0 25
Mike Viracola Kleine 5 1-3 0 0 0 
Brooks 10 2 14 7.0 0 11 
Banks 5 1-8 0 0 0 Abraham 7 1 17 17.0 0 17 
Sptelmaker 4 0-0 1 0 0 Machtolf 3 12 12.0 0 12 
Butler 4 0-0 0 0 0 Williams 5 6 6.0 0 6 
McCabe 3 0-0 0 0 0 
Mosley 2 0-0 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME 10 126 1798 14.3 10 61 
Corsaro 1 0-0 0 0 0 OPPONENTS 10 142 1557 11.0 9 81 
Whrte 1 1-2 0 0 0 
• 


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a 
game. The person must pick a winner given the underdog points. 

louie Somogyi Mike Sullivan Will Hare Jane Healey David Dziedzic Mike Collins The Great Aboo Sports Writer Sports Editor Spor1s Writer Asst. Sports Editor Editor-in-Chief Guest Celebrity Random Student 87-52-4 83-58-4 82-57-4 81-58-4 54-6!>-4 8().59-4 82·57-4 
.561 .528 .520 .510 .455 .504 .520 
UCLA over SOUTHERN CAL by.4 Bruins Bruins Trojans Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins California over STANFORD by 4 Bears Bears Bears Bears Cardinal Cardinal Bears Texas A&M over TCU by 7 Aggies Frogs Frogs Aggies Aggies Aggies Aggies SMll over ARKANSAS by 7 Razorbacks Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Razorbacks Mustangs TEXAS over Baylor by 14 Bears Bears Bears Bears Longhorns Longhorns Bears Wesl Virginia over SYRACUSE by 9 Orangemen Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Clemson over SOUTH CAROUNA by 7 Tigers Gamecocks Gamecocks Tigers Gamecocks Tigers Tigers 
PITTSBURGH over Penn Slate by 6.5 Lions Panthers Panthers Uons Lions Uons Panlhc:rs 
Harvard over YALE by 6 Crimson Crimson Elis Crimson Crimson Crimson Crimson MICHIGAN over Ohio Stale by 3 Buckeyes Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Buckeyes Wolverim:s Boswn College over lfoly Cross by I 3 Crusaders Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Crusaders Eagles Tennessee over KENTUCKY by 7 Volunteers Wildcats Volunteers Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Volunteers 
NOTRE I>AME over Air Force by 14 Falcons Falcons Irish Falcons Falcons Falcons Rainoul •
..,..,_ 
!t~~ 

IIUU .!I! __.,d,,~· .. w 
-~--­

Showcase 
Friday, November 18,1983-page 13 

by Stephen Thomas 
features staffwriter 

G
athering a lot of media atten­tion, both in political and cinematic circles is The Ladd Com­apany's recent release of"The Right Stuff," an account ofAmerica's first flights into space in the 1940s. 
"The Right Stuff' traces the begin­ning ofAmerica's space age from the first pilot to break the sound barrier to the individual launchings ofthe seven Mercury astronauts into space. It is a story ofthe fears and the fame that the astronauts and their wives experienced during the monumental launchings. It is also a story that is not afraid to show the reality behind the glamour of the Mercury launchings. "The Right Stuff' raises several questions concerning the treatment of the astronauts and their possesion or lack of"the right stuff." 
"The Right Stuff' forms its story around two groups ofastronauts. One group is the "hardcore" group oftest pilots that make their home at Edwards Air Force Base in Arizona. Sam Shepard ("Frances," "'Days of Heaven") plays Chuck Yeager, the first test pilot to break the sound bar­rier. He is constantly being chal­lenged by other pilots that wish to take him off of the flight "pyramid." However. when government offi­cials arrive at the base to select 
sev::n potential Mercury astronauts, 
Yeager does not wish to go, and 
other, less skilled pilots are taken in­
stead. 
What follows after the base scenes 
is a long, detailed selection process 
to see who the first men into space 
will be. Jane Donaker is very funny 
as the nurse administering the tests _ro the astronauts. During these test scenes, the film offers some ofits . best humor. 
When the seven are eventually 
selected, the media intervenes and 
the astronauts get a sweet taste of 
potential fame. It is at this point, 
through the use of the media, that 
the film raises several questions 
about the reality and the image of 
the seven Mercury astronauts. For 
instance, is the public being fooled 
into believing that these astronauts 
are the "all American men" that we 
see drinking heavily and cheatingon 
their wives? Are these pilots real 
heroes or media-manufactured? Is 
Chuck Yeager, who refused the glit­
ter and glamour, the only pilot with 
"the right stuff!" Finally, a subject on 
which the film places a lot ofem­
phasis is the treatment ofthe 
astronauts. Are they really pilots, or · 
are they nothing more then the "test 
animals" which the NASA engineers 
treat them like? 


Two actresses who portray astronauts' wives deserve special praise for fine charcacterizations. Veronica Cartwright plays Betty Grissom, wife ofGus Grissom, whose landing is dampened by a technical malfunction. As a result of his less than perfect flight, Gussom receives not quite as an elaborate reception as previous astronauts had. Cartwright is hurt and feels cheap at her very standard recep­tion. She says that she was looking forward to talking to President Ken­nedy and discussing "things" with Jackie. 
MaryJo Deschanel is also enjoyable as Annie Glenn. Annie is deaf, and therefore, finds herself defenseless against the constant onslaught ofreporters' questions. In a very special moment from "The Right Stuff," Annie refuses an inter­view with the President because of her speech impediment. 
Outstanding among the actor astronauts is Ed Harris in his portrayal ofJohn Glenn. Glenn, maybe because he has more dialogue and screen time than the other astronauts, presents a well formed characterization ofGlenn. Glenn's flight into space is also one ofthe most visually pleasing mo­
ments ofthe film. 
While "The Right Stuff' is im­pressive in the way it treats it's unique subj.ect matter, it is in need ofimprovements. At times the film, which runs over three hours. drags and, to put it bluntly, becomes boring. Also, the film employs a comic book sense ofhumor in dealing with its characters. In other words, some characters are often too simplified to emphasize certain character qualities, therefore sacrificing realism. The film also places its strange band ofhumor in situations where such humor seems out of place. The humor in the con­trol room exemplifies this. 
A recent report in "USA TODAY'' stated that first and second week returns for the film were lower than expected. The producers of"Right Stuff" claim that a movie like this can only keep getting better. They are counting on word of mouth to build up "The Right Stuff' to where it should be. The article also pointed out that the majority oftoday's moviegoers are a much younger, less nostalgic crowd than would usually be attracted to this type of film. 
Today's high admission prices could be another explanation for the unfulfilled financial potential ofthis film. At S4 to S5 a person, a family can hardly afford to go to a family movie such as this one. 

A dictionary of declinations, refusals and rejections 
by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
F 
or all the bleeding hearts who have ever been rejected by a Screw-Your-Roommate prospect, know that you have not been alone. For all the shafted innocents who didn't get to go with their first choice, know that you are among many. 
For all you didn't do, this one's for you. 
The following is a series ofexcuses, with no comment on their validity, collected from various people I polled. They all wanted only 
one thing -a date for an SYR -but got instead: 
The Immediate Answer. 

"My parents are coming in that weekend." 
"I have a boyfriend/girlfriend back home." 
"I can go but I might have to leave early because I might have to go early to work the next day." 
"I'm washing my hair now -can I call you back?" 
"My grandmother's coming to visit that weekend." 
''I'm gonna be in a wedding that weekend." 
''I'm not in a very good mood. You should go with someone else­you'll have a better time." "I'm going to ISll that weekend." "I really can't -my doctor said my appendix was going to burst any minute. I'm on my way to the hospital now." 
''I'm engaged." 

"I've already turned down three people in your dorm and it would look bad." "I don't know ...call me back tomorrow." "I have a late basketball practice Friday night and an early practice 
Saturday morning." 

"I don't go out on blind dates anymore. Last week I had a bad ex­perience at an SYR with a blind date. and I'll never go on another one again!" 
''I'd love to go but I have a three-page paper, a four-page paper, and a test to study for." 
"I have a friend coming in this weekend." 
"I don't know -that's the night I have to vacuum the lint out ofmy pockets." "I don't know ...my roommate and I might be going to a party. Can I call you back tomorrow?" "I'd love to go but I have eight friends coming in this weekend ­but ifyou can find dates for all ofthem, I'll go." 
''I'd rather die." 

"Someone else asked me and I already said yes" 
''I'm sorry, but our dorm's having an SYR the same night." 
'Til have to ask my boyfriend/girlfriend." 
"I'm waiting for so-and-so to ask me but ifhe/she doesn't, then I might go." "I might have to be in Montana this weekend." "But wait-I didn't even tell you the date yet." "Well, I'm sure I have to be somewhere." 
The Call Back. 
"I just found odf1\1a~e to go home." 

'Til have to think about it -J've never been in this situation 
before." 
"I didn't realize you were a senior." 
"I just found out I have mono." 

"I just saw your picture in the dogbook and you're ugly and I don't want togo." 
"I thought you were someone else." 

"I'm going to a concert in Kalamazoo." 
"(just found out I have a boyfriend/girlfriend." 
"I thought you meant next weekend." 
"I didn't realize you were a freshman." 
"I promised someone I'd go to this play with them downtown and that's the only night they could get tickets for." "I'm going on a retreat instead." 
That Night. 

"I have to leave at midnight because my boyfriend/girlfriend from 
home is gonna call me at 12:30." 

'Til have to leave early because I gotta watch a movie for a class 
tonight." 

"I just remembered my brother's flying in frqm Boise at 11 and I 
have to go pick him up." 

"My leg hurts and I can't dance. Besides, I think I have a real bad 
headache -I should go home." 

"I have to leave early to get my iron lung treatment." 
"I have to leave at I 0 -I'm expectingan important phone call from 
home because my cousin might be in Lebanon." 
"I have to leave early because I have to study for a make-up exam 
I'm taking tomorrow morning." 

"Hi. I'm so-and-so's roommate. So-and-so is sick. Would you like to go with me instead?" "Uh ...okay. Sure, that sounds fine." (An hour ofthe SYR elapses.) "Can I use your phone? I should call my roommate and see how he/she is doing." "Uh ...yeah, sure." (A few minutes elapses.) "I'm sorry. My roommate-so-and-so·_ is really sick. I'd better go." 
The Walk Home. 

"I hope you know I have a boyfriend/girlfriend." 
"Did I tell you I had mono?" 

"Can you walk me to Alumni/Badin? 1 have to meet my 
boyfriend/girlfriend there." 
'Tm engaged, you know." 
"Do you want your flower ba!.:k?" 

"That's okay, I can walk myself It's not that far." 
Ifthere's any I've missed, I'm sure someone will be reminded ofone or two more the next time an SYR rolls around. 

Showcase Friday, November 18, 1983 -page 14 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Observer, I love you 
One letter added a new horror to a death already unbearably painful.
by Rev. Robert Griffin 

I 
Yesterday, I got a letter berating me for an opinion I wrote in a magazine owe as much to The Obsen'er as shoulders in resignation, as much as 
article three years ago. I may have anyone has ever owed to acampus to say, "We are becoming a house or­had second thoughts on that newspaper. For nearly 14 years, I gan, another public relations 
opinion; I was still responsible for it have written a weekly column, branch, with all the news manip­
in the mind ofmy reader. My young colleagues on the

sayng what it means to be a priest at ulated, and all the protest silenced." campus newspaper are too aware of
Notre Dame; as a result, wherever I A university is better offwhen the their responsibilities to need ser­
travel, perfect strangers greet me as students are feisty. Feistiness keeps though I were a dose friend. My ar­administrators honest. 
mons from me. However, The Ob­server has a long history ofpages

ticles have given me opportunities The Observer has been promised filled with off-the-top-of-the head
for service which I don't live up to. I its editorial freedom. An advisory •THEATRE
journalism which was embarrassing

avoid the no-man's-land ofcon­board has been suggested, to help to everybody. The sins ofthe jour­This weekend the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's second scene theatretroversy between students and the with the professionalism. The Ob­nalistic parents are visited onto the presents "Kitchen Gothic," a full-length play written and directed byAdministration. As Father Burtchaell server should take Father Hesburgh children. Ayoung journalist, fired up Saint Mary's Assistant ProfessorJulie Jensen. Showtime is 8 tonight
reminded me years ago: You're part at his word to make the best deal it as an investigative reporter, sets out and tomorrow night in the Saint Mary's Little Theatre. Admission is 
of the Admnistration, whether you can to assure its independence, and like it or not. I feel comfortable as get experienced advisors in whom 
to do a story. He makes a botch of $1. the University Chaplain who is the stallhas faith. 
the facts, putting together a half­allowed to appear neutral when the 
fictional piece. Ifthe editor doesn't
Accountability is a gray-bearded, •DANCE
challenge the inaccuracies, hell

great controversies are raging. 
fuddy·duddy ofa word that gets 

Students will have a Chance to Dance tonight at Chautauqua, at I was touched by Bruce Oakley's little respect these days. A student the popular event, sponsored this week by the Hall Presidents Coun­
breaks loose with angry phone calls, 
letters to the editor, and the local 

column Ia .st week when he la­brings a girl to Notre Dame as a date. 
cil. The dance goes from 9:30 to 1 and admission is SI. mented, "Nobody cares about The She drinks too much, and wanders responsible, vowing never to talk to The Abiogenesis Dance Collective presents its fall concert, Observer, and we've brought it on away from the party. Later, she consis.ting ofpieces choreographed and performed by Abiogenesis poohbahs, who also need to be 
another cub reporter. That's when ourselves." I care very much about shows up, sick to her stomach. The Bruce Oakleyfeels the paperdoesn't members, Saturday night at 8:30 an~ Sunday at 1 p.m. at Chautauqua The Observer. I've seen the late boyfriend has lost interest. The girl 
The pieces use the elements ofjazz, ballet and modern dance tech­nights when nothing goes right, and is no fun; she has no class, and she This is a great age for passing the nique, combined to form a new and refreshing mode ofdance. High­tired students work as late as I 0 am. shouldn't drink. He pretends he buck. The buck stops with you ifyou lights ofthe concert will be such popular pieces as David Bowie's to get that day's paperout. While the doesn't know her. At midnight, she's are writing words to become part of "Richochet" and Peter Gabriel's "I Need Contact." 
campus sleeps, young amateurs try at the Circle, trying to catch a bus. 
have the support ofthe campus. 

history. A newspaper, which will be to be professional, at least in their Nobody, including the guy that 
thrown away with the garbage, is •MUSICzeal. The paper appears daily be­brought her, feels responsible for 

part ofthe local history which can 

cause ofsome great effort of joined what is happening. The Notre Dame Glee Club presents its fall concert tonight, at 
hurt and misinform our friends. On wills determined to get a job done. 8:15 in Washington Hall.
Accountability, on a newspaper, Thursday nights, I always check the 

The campus has to have a Linda de Carvalho will present a SeniorStudent Piano Recital Sun­
means something more than the next day's column. I want the 

newspaper. We would never know day at 3 p.m. in the Saint Mary's Little Theatre.
number ofsignatureson a check. Ac­heresies I am responsible for to be 

anything that's going on without A Faculty Violin Recital by Laura Klugherz will be given Sunday at
countability means that we are as my own, and not the typesetter's. 

one. The Observer's editors have 4 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium.
careful as we can be with the truth. Observer, I love you very much. been.serious about giving Notre 
Words printed on a page travel fur­The days ofyour greatness still lie Dame as good a paper as possible, ther and hang around longer than ahead. You can dare to be different •ART even at times when it almost seemed we could ever imagine, reaching in an age ofconformity, ifyou accept An exhibition titled "Giuseppe Gattuso: Made in Italy" opensthat the blind were leading the people who will never see theerrata accountability and love the truth. In today in the Hammes Gallery at Saint Mary's. 

blind. 
revised. In a recent Sunday paper, my life, you are Number One. You 

"Traditions ofInnovation: Four Saint Mary's Photographers:The Observer and the University there was a misprint in a sentence I are living through growing pains, 
josept.jachna,Jim Raymo, Barbara Blandeau, Douglas Tyler" openswill surely come to terms in the al­wrote: "Michael's body was found in not a terminal assault. There are 
today in the Saint Mary's Moreau Gallery. Both shows run until Dec. tercation that presently divides thegarage" appeared as "Michael's graces for you in the pressure you 
15. them. Editors should not shrug their body was found in thegarbage." are under. 
Exhibitions oflithography by Currier and Ives, Rembrandt's etched work, painting and graphics by Douglas Kinsey, and fun­damental concepts in art are now on display in the Snite. Photographs by Steve Prinster are exhibiting in the Isis Gallery ofthe Art Building. 
Cultural highlights at SMC 
•MASS
Scholar-in­

The Masses this Sunday in Sacred Heart Church will have the following celebrants:
residence 

A
Fr. Andre Leveille, at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil) lexandra Rust Murphy, assistant 
Fr. Georgt~ Wiskirchen, at 9 a.m. curator ofthe department of 
Fr. Richard McBrien, at 10:_~0 paintings at the Museum ofFine Arts 
Fr. Mark Poorman, at 12: I 5 in Boston, will serve as scholar-in­residence for the art department at 
•MOVIES 

Saint Mary's College November 14­"Wait Until Dark," a horror movie about an intruder into the
IH. house ofa blind woman, will bc shown today and tomorrow in the
During her visit, she will present a Engineering AtJditorium at 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Admission for the
public lecture entitled ".Jean-Fracois movie, sponsoro:d by the film dub, is S I.
Millet: Revolution within the Grand "Twilight's Last Glcaming," a drama about m•clcar war, Vietnam, 
Tradition," at 7:30p.m. November and government credibility, is the Friday night movie at 7:30 in thc
16 in the Media Center ofthe Annenburg. The film raises the question ofwhat happens when
Cushwa-Leighton Library. The nuclear weapons get into the wrong hands. Burt Lanca~ter plays a 
lecture is free and open to the Vietnam veteran who escapes from prison and captures a Montana
public.
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's second scene theatre presents "Kitchen 
missile base. 
A 1972 cum laude graduate of 
Gothic in the Saint Mary's Lillie Theatre this weekend-See "Weekend" 

The Knights ofColumbus will sponsor"Tommy" this Sunday at 7,
Radcliffe College, Ms. Murphy at­9, and 11 in the K of C Auditorium.
for times_ tended the master's program in art "The Day After," a live TV show on the aftereffects ofnuclear war
history at Brown University and will be shown Sunday at 8 in the Engineering Auditorium. ' 
finished her graduate work in fine Monday night at 7 "Kiss Me Deadly," a bleak 1955 dete('tive story 
At the library 
arts at Harvard University. She

T
he Cushwa-Leighton Library at National Bible Weeks are describing the atomic age, begins in the Annenburg.
received the Kress Fellowship in art
Saint Mary's College Is celebrat­sponsored by the United States Cath­Robert DeNiro is a saxophone player and Llza Minnelli is a singer

history and the University Fellow

ingjewish Book Month and National ollc Conference (November 13-20) 
in "New York, New York," the original and creative tribute to Hot­Award from Brown.
Bible Weeks with a special display and the Laymen's National Bible lywood musicals ofthe Forties. The movie, which describes the
She has worked as assistant 

entitled, "The Bible Through the Committee, Inc. (November 20-27). 
tumultuous :relationship ofthe two through several years, begins at
curator in the department ofpaint­

Ages: Our Common Heritage," A joint resolution ofthe United 9 p.m. Monday in the Annenburg. Admission for the Annenburg
ings at the Museum ofFine Arts 

November 13-27. StatesCongress has designated 1983 movies is $2. 
1980 and previously spent three
The exhibit, housed in the Rare as the Year of the Bible. years in the same area as a research

Book Room, includes examples of 
•MISCELLANEOUS
In observance ofjewish Book fellow and fOur years as a researchthe Bible from the original Torah Month, the Cushwa-Leighton assistant. 

The third annual Senior Class Block Party, in which students willscroll, a facsimlle ofthe Gutenberg Library also is sponsoring a display Ms. Murphy has written several join families from the northeast block, will be held today in the ACCBible, several foreign language of Holocaust literature compiled by publications and currently is 
from 3:30 to 6:30p.m. The party will include food and bevt~rages at
Bibles and the latest translation by assistant modem language professor completing "lllustrated Summary reasonable prices, balloons, conversation, music, clowns, and fun foc the Jewish Publlcation Society. 
Nicholas Meyerhofer. That exhibit, Catalogue ofEuropean Painth1gs." 

all. Free tickets can be picked up on the first floor ofLaFortune.
Robert Hohl, reference and in­which features the personal papers She also is preparing a Mille exhibi­

The pep rally will begin as usual at 7 p.m. tonight in Stepan Center.
struction librarian, mounted the dis­ofRose Zar, a Polish native who has tion for 1984. She has also taught at You can buy or sell winter equipment at the Ski Swap, to be heldplay from materials in the Rare Book written a book about her ex­Brown and Harvard. 
tomorrow and Sunday from 10 to 5, in the Big Red Bam at St. Pat's
Room and other sources loaned by 
periences during World War II, is While at Saint Mary's, Ms. M11ornn"' Park in South Bend. There will be cross-countrv and downhill skis
Jewish community organizations. located in the library's main lobby. . will lecture in various art classes and ski clothing and equipment, backpacks, tents, e'tc., as well aos waxi~gTheJewish Federation ofSt. joseph work with students and faculty. clinics and equipment demonstrations.
Valley cooperated with the t display The Cushwa-Leighton Library ex­
at the Cushwa-Leighton Library as hibits are open to the public at no Anyone interested in attending one Unique items made by 35 craftsmen from the Michiana area will ofthe classes may call the Saint .be displayed and sold today at the Little Flower Christmas show, in
well as with other libraries in the charge. The Rare Book Room is open the Little Flower Church on Ironwood Drive. From 9 am. to 6 p.m. 
South Bend community that are from 9 am. to noon and 2:30 to 4:30 Mary's art department ( 284-4631 ) anyone can enjoy or buy ceramics, stuffed and wooden toys, pottery,
observing.Jewish Book Month. p.m. Monday through Friday. for more information. 
stained glass, macrame, silk flowers, paintings, or food. 


Sports Briefs 
Saint Mary's Flag Football championship be­
tween Off-Campus and McCandless will be Sunday at 4 pm. at An-· gela Field. -The Observer 
Windsurfing Notre Dame will have its last meeting before break at 7 p.m. on Monday, Novetbber 21 in LaFortune. Bring any unsold shirts and receipts. -The Obseroer 
Any interhall men's football player who 
didn't retum his equipment at the scheduled time should retum it Tuesday, November 22 between 6:00-7:30 p.m. Enter gate 9 of the stadium. -The Observer 
Men's interhall basketballwill have a meeting 
of team captains Tuesday, November 21 at 4:30 p.m. at the ACC 
Football Auditorium. -The Obseroer 

Friday, November 18, 1983 -page 15 
A one-on-one basketball tournament is being sponsored by the NVA Office. The toumament, which will be played on Friday, Dec. 2, will be divided into three divisions ­one for women, one for men under six feet tall, and one for men more than six feet tall. It will be single-elimination with the early rounds being played to five. The toumey is open to all under­graduate and graduate students, except college basketball letter winners. Trophies will be awarded to the winners in each division and T-shirts will be given to the final four. There is a $1 fee to register and the field is limited to 32 entries per division. You must sign up in 
the NYA office by November 23. -The Obseroer 
TheNotreDaoleRugbyClubwill play its final match of the season today at 3:30 against Air Force on the fields behind Stepan Center. Air Force was the No. 2-ranked team in the country last year. ·-The Obseroer 
Buy Observer classifieds 

The Observer LaFortune office accepts classifJed advertising from 9 a.m. to 4 p_m, Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third-floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 11:38 p.lD-to 3 ,_._ Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.DL All classifieds must be prepaid, either in per­
son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per _day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES I· IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BuY JEEPS FOR $44 TMROUGH TME U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET TME FACTS TODAY! CALL (312)742-1142, EXT. 7311i. PRO-TYPE, 12 yrs. experience.  IO.ST:'wALTHAM GOLD WATCH. Great­lyappreciated if returned. Please Call Jen­nifer Payne at 3570. Helplllost my navy Mackintosh pea coat in the Keenan party room Sat. night. If you know of ns whereabouts please call Julie at7119.  I need a ride to and from Galesburg, Ill. or the Quad cnies area for Thanksgiving Break. Can leave Tuesday afternoon. Call Cindy x4215. NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGMNG -CAN LEAVE ANYTIME -CALL PAUL McGINN AT 239-53130R 277-4851.  NEED RIDE TO SMC FROM CHICAGO(NW Suburbs) Sat 11/26 Please call Debbie 284-4372 NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO GREEN­BAY AREA( St. Norberts College) 1211 or 12/2 call Debbie 284-4372 DESSPERATE NEED 12 Student or GA Tickets ROB KA-bob 277-5263  FOR SALE: 2 Air Force GAs Best Offer 284-5064 TICKETS NEEDED FOR AIR FORCE, GAS OR STUDENTS. CALL JILL AT 6293. NEED 4 AIR FORCE GAs Kerry 234­9114  I NEED A RIDE TO EASTERN PENN. FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK THAT IS LEAVING ON TUESDAY. WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES. CALL JULIE AT 272·1723. BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER CALL277-451 9 OR 288-3320.  
Specializing in dissertations, manuscnpts, theses, and student papers. Call 277-5833 for rates. lYPING 277·8534 after 5:30 NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -PLEASE CALL PAUL McGINN AT 277-4851 OR 2~ 5313. d. NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO TUESDAY AFTER 11:00-ple-call7187.  LOST: Whoever accidantally removed my shoe from Haggar Center (SMC) please contart me. No ?'s. NO. 284-4285. LOST: H anybody picked up a Cross gold pen In SMC parlllng lot, please contact me. It has GREAT sentimental value. NO. 284-4275. O.K. Katle7 LOST: Seiko watch, silver wrth gold bands, grey face. REWARD. Call Kevin at 3401. Thanks.  HELP WANTED­BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER. CALL 277-4519 OR 288-3320. NEED TIX FOR AIR FORCE. DAN at234­6496. PART TIME EMPLOYEE WANTED TO PUT UP POSTERS ON CAMPUS NOW AND DURING 1983-84. 2-10 HOURS/MONTH, $4.50/HR. SEND NAME, ADDRESS, PHONE NO. , CLASS YR., ETC. TO MS. NISTICO, 152 TEMPLE ST., NO. 701, NEW HAVEN,  FOR SALE FOR SALE : A DELCO CAR STEREO CALL 2R3-8046 BEST OFFER WOOD YOU UKE A DESK? FOR SALE: Wooden desk, 4 112 by 2 1/2 feet Fair condrtion. Complete wrth drawers and legs. Price negotible. Contact Margaret at The Observer, 239-5303.  PERSONALS Do you want to eat your Thanksgiving turkey in Younstown, Ohio or there­abouts? And have you no way to get there? If so, and if you would like a ride, call 1311. AND NOW BY SPECIAL REQUEST; ANNE'S 21ST BIRTHDAY Orlando.Fun time.Real girls here--not like Notre Dame.Sunny today. 70's.Back  You know you want to. So why not? Kitchen Gothic SMC Little Theatre 8:00p.m. Nov. 1 7, 18,1 9 Breen-Phllllps Hall, You have my full support In yourfootball game this Sun­day. Best of Lucki-Darby O'GIII. 20.1120-1120.11 The Stanfold Football Maroon  
SLOW DEATH is in need of funny people to join the staff. When our new buUding is complete. we will all have new offices wnh electric pencrt sharpeners and shapely secretaries and maybe even Danish modem fumnure. The sky's the limn for this new publication, so if you are at all interested, call 8557, 1545, or 1601. Ask for Chloe.  LOST: SET OF KEYS. FRIDAY, NOV.11, SOMEWHERE BETWEEN A GRACE PARTY AND CARROLL HALL. ONE OF THE KEYS WAS MARKED WITH "425 N" ON IT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 284-4230 OR MARC AT NO. 6741. IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT THESE ARE RETURNED. LOST AT KEENAN BASEMENT SATUR­ CT.06510 NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. CALL STEVE AT8105. NEED ride to N.Y. suburbs forT-giving can leave TUESDAY-call Betty at4351  FOR SALE:1974 VW Bug great mechani­cally, some rust. Bright yellow $800/best offer. Call before Sam 277-1454. jf¢t<ETS ]r  Sunday,depressed again. JOE I'm desperate! I need a ride home for turkey dinner! Please give me a ride to St. Louis. Can leave Tues. or WI ed. Will pay usual. Call Maureen at 1311. Please call!!I B.P.IS BACK!  Machine rolls o-the "Big Red" on Sunday at 2:00 In the Stadium. Be there. We, the undersigned, hereby declare our support of the Stanford Studs on Sunday. Go Studs! Joe Montana Pope John Paul II Sally Ride  
Programming Contract programming, tutoring, or con­suhation available at fairly reasonable rates. Call Tom or Bruce at 277-4851 after 6.  DAY NIGHT Jean Jacket(SB II) wrth pinstripes. My ID and room keys were in the pocket PLEASE return to Holy Cross Hall (SMC) or call 284-4380. No ques­tions asked. Reward involved.  Need Ride to ATLANTA AREA lor Turkey Day. Leave anytime after noon 11122. Return 11/27. Call Mary x2733. NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO FOR THANKSGIVING-CALL ROB 1777  .................................... ······················· Need 4 GA's for NAVY! Please call Cindy at2856.  "THE DAY AFTER", ABC'S 7 MIWON DOLLAR MOVIE ABOUT NUCLEAR WAR AND KANSAS CITY, THIS SUN­DAY AT 8 IN THE ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM. BE THERE.  Bob Hope George Bush Robert Redford Cap'n Crunch Indiana Jones David Letterman  
NEED RIDE FROM DALLAS TO ND AF­ AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE.272-6306'"""'''  DIRTBAG'D'  Harold Washington and Gary "Far Side" Larson  
HAIRCUTS!! GUYS $4 GIRLS $1i CALL MICHOLE AT 288 3501 WILSON DRIVEAWAY cars to all points in the USA, only available one way. You  LOST: NOTRE DAME CREW PUL­LOVER JACKET -­PLEASE return if found call John Gibbon 17 4 7 LOST: NAVY BLUE LIGHTWEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET. TO THE  TER XMAS BREAK WILL SHARE COST & DRIVING. CALL PEG NO. 1262 HELP !!!!!! RIDE NEEDED TO D.C. FOR THANKSGIVING. WILL SHARE USUAL OR RENT. LEAVE MON. OR LATER.  I NEED AIR FORCE GA$.272-6306,232­1486 ... ················· NEEDED: 2 GA.'s FOR AIR FORCE. CALL CHARLENE AT 2909.  Best In '83 NOTRE DAME COLORING BOOKS, Ideal for the young ones in your life. Get yours today before rt is too late!  Dale Fronk is a man-god! LOOK OUT, WORLDIII RICK MCBRIEN TURNS FIFTEEN Ill  
pick up the car in Chicago, use of car is only 20$ plus gas. HANDPAINTED!! SWEATSHIRTS, T­SHIRTS, ANYTHING!! SlJPRISE  BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE HAD FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT8810.  CALL 8425 AFTER 1 1. Need RIDE to CLEVELAND for Thanksgiving. Can leave Mon.Jack 1584  Need GAs and student tickets for Air Force. Tracy x4347 need 1 stu AF tix 1 1 00  Dear Signorina Hausman, The 2 KKK's would like to wish you Happy Birthday! May the coming year be filled with shows. Have a great day Claris­ HAPPY BIRTHDAY, RICK! WE'LL BE COMING HOME SOON FOR TURKEY BREAK... AND THIS TIME WE'LL DO IT FASTERnl WE LOVE YOU! VICKI AND DIANNE  
SOMEONE FOR XMAS WI A PER­SONALIZED GIFT! $5.00 EA. CALL JENN AT 2156 FOR INFO  LOST: brown umbrella on 11115 in Cus­hing 1st floor ladies room. If found, please call Meghan 283-7060.  RIDERS NEEDED EAST ON 1-80 AS FAR AS PA.-NJ. BORDER LEAVING AF­TERNOON OF 1 1 /22. CALL DON 8245.  WANTED: AIR FORCE GA'S FOR UNCLE'S IRISH-CRAZY FRIENDS, CALL WOU. 1773  sa. Love, the Thumpettes I AM A VERY ATTRACTIVE GIRL WHO  ATTENTION SANOMAN:·SYR PREDIC· TION FOR NEXT SEMESTER: WAR OR THE BEAST. BETTER CATCH UP ON  
PANDORA'S CAN HELP YOU STRETCH YOUR CHRISTMAS BUDGET. NEW AND USED BOt'KS. 1984 CALENDARS AND MUCH MORE. REMEMBER OUR FRIDAY HAPPY HOUR. FROM 3:~:00. ALL USED BOOKS 50/ OFF AND ALL NEW BOOKS 20/ OFF. 937 SOU'TH BEND AVE. ATTENTION GOVERNMENT MAJORS AND OTHER INTERESTED STu­DENTS, THERE WILL BE A STUDENT­FACULTY MIXER FROM 4 TO 6 PM AT THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS BUtLD­INGTODAYIII LOST/FOUND  LOST: HARD COVERED BLACK BOOK IN RM 120 O'SHEA LAST WED. BOOK NAME: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. IF FOUND CALL 8086. REWARD!! LOST A HP-41CV CAL­CULATOR WITH MATH PAC AND USER CARD!! PLEASE RETURN!! PAT 277­6484. LOST FOREVER: STANFORD'S WIN­NING STREAK DIRTBAG DEFENSE PRIDE call BIG RED for further info ... LOST: To you who received the suprise gift ol a checkbook and Casio calculator in your bat ckpack at the North Dining Hall: please return them to Dave Wilson at229 Pangborn or call 8388. My mistake... !I!I  HELP! RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO AREA TO VISIT LONELY GRANDPARENTS FOR TURKEY DAY. WILL SHARE USUAL$ CALL PAUL 3239 Need ride to Cincinnati for Thanksgiving break. Will share regular expenses. Caa Mike 3310. Riders needed to Pittsburgh leaving Wed. 22 at 3:30. Call Tom at3540. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO MD/DC AREA FOR BREAK. CALL 6874. volunteer drivers for cart for Handcapped Monday and Friday 9:55-11:15 a.m. Tuesday 12:30-2:45 p.m. Call 2339­7200. I NEED A RIDE TO PITTSBURGH Wed­nesday the 23rd. Call Linda 284-5026.  $$$Need AIR FORCE GA's. Call 1150$$$ 4 sale 4 AF GA'S -2 on the 5011 call 8324 now!! HELPIII Three Violent aunts and a slew of insane. cousins. will belt-sand my kneecaps if I don't get 11:.F. GA's. 277­0911 HEY YOU WITH THE TWO GA's I NEED THEM. WILL PAY. CALL JEFF AT 277­4282. AF TIX 4 AVAILABLE 317-848-2958 HOME 317-269-3223 EXT 40 WORK AIR FORCE STUDENT TIX FOR SALE CALL 1226 JOE  NEEDS A RIDE TO EASTERN PENN. FOR BREAK. CALL JULIE AT 272-1723. ·············································· KERIN MANNION! KERIN MANNION! HE SLEEPS WITH TOM MORRISEY! TOM MORRISEY! Sharon-As you hopefully know by now: I'm interested." I don't know about YOU, though. So why don't we make a date and find out? I have the sixth of December in mind. Think about it and give me a call­8456. Until we finally meet, Joshua Whip out your joy buzzers! It's Magic & Comedy Night at the Nazz this Friday ate ... see Mike Weber, Gary O'Brien, Dan Hanigan, Dan 0 t sboume, Jim Leous, Dan Mischke. and Mark WeimboH... and a cast of thousands! DEAR DAVE, HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! LOVE, NADINE  YOUR SLEEP NOW! Dear Pam, I think I love you, but what am I so afraid oHm afraid hat I'm not sure of, in which there is no cure for. Kieth Partridge BIG RED .... DEADI IS IT A MATTER OF OPINION OR JUST A CONTRADICTION BUT FROM WHERE I COME FROM BLONDES HAVE MORE FUN... ROD STEWART (it is a matter of opinion· love you SK) MORRISSEY HAPPY HOUR! THIRD FLOOR EAST, TODAY! Cow Head: MOOOOIIII  
HELP I CAN'T SEE I LOST-PAIR OF GLASSES. "GEMINI" IN BLACK CASE (EYE CARE DOC­TORS, WICKUFFE, OHIO), BROWN FRAMES, CLEAR PLASTIC LENSES. LOST 10119 POSIBLY IN ENGINEER­ING AUDITORIUM. CALL JOHN 3254. FOUND: HAND KNIT SWEATER ON PAnt NEAR MUSIC BLDG. ON TUE5­DAY,1111. CALL277-3443.  LOST: A light blue/light yellow reversible jacket sometime before Fall Break. If found, please return to Dave at 229 Pangborn Hall or call 8388. Reward n necessary. FOR RENT ]  WANTED-Piano player for Dec. 9 8-9:30 pm for SMC S.Y.R. Will pay. Call Kris284­4133 NEED RIDE TO MADISON, WIS FOR THANKSGIVING WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARK 8906 NEED RIDE TO PHILA AREA FOR TY -WILL PAY CALL BETTY 284-5392-DAY  FOR SALE: 1 AF STUDENT TICKET. CALL 8238 OR 431 3. FOR SALE: My last student !-ball tik this year. Call 8109. Best offer. See Air Force get bombed. (AW.A others). For Sale ND-IU Basketball Tix Court Level call Bryan (812)337-8786 NEED AF' GA'S. CALL MIKE 3311.  sometimes, all 1t takes is a little concern in the right places. thanks Pat ND CLUB OF ROCHESTERTAILGATER AT GREEN FIELD! COUNTRY SWEET CHICKEN WINGSI SAM -?!? GOD KNOWS, I'D RATHER BE IN ROCHES­TER! DOOO-RAH DOOO-RAH THIS SUNDAY IS PHIL'S B-DAY WISH THIS D-BALL A  In the name of honesty, in the name ofwhatis fair You always answered my questions but they don't always answer my prayers -early Simon Marianne, Welcome to NDI I'm glad you made itfrom colorful Colorado. Here's to a great weekend together. I love you. Mic­ 
FURNISHED HOUSE, CLOSE TO N.D.  272-6258-EVE  4 sale 2 stu AF tix 277-0481 5-10 pm  HAPPY ONE PG & GO  hael  
GOOD AREA 277-3604.  
FOUND: French tam between Frtzpatrick and Snite. Call 6826, to claim.  GARAGE 2 BLOCKS FROM N.D. 277­ TWIN CITIES FORT-DAY Need Riders call John 2256  LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR  HAPPY 21RST, PEGGY, ON VA S'AMUSER CE SOIA, N'EST-CE PAS?  THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR PRAYERS ~NSWERED. LT  
3604.  Lost in engineen"ng computer room. Call  
LOST: HP 15C CALCUL,,TOR  .....,....)  Need 1 rider to Omaha. Leaving early  DaVid at 277-1326. No queslions asked.  NEED  RIDERS  OR  A  RIDE  TO  
weds.and  returning  sun.  40$ r.t.  Jeff  Reward offered.  LOOGOOTEE OR SO. INDIANA CALL M  Welcome to the kingdom,  
I lost my Hewlett-Packard calculator in the  1372.  1294  The land of "bought" and "sold,"  
Engineenng Computer Room on Wed­nesday, Nov 9. h has big initials of OS in the right corner. If found. call David at277­1326. Reward offered. No questions.  WANTED SYRACUSE!!! STILL NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE FOR THANKSGIVING .. ...................................:.u.i.IJ::)'{Jil<j•.BRE-AK WILL HELP RENT IF NECES- Fly with the Irish and St J_ude's:Gametime.Sat Over the river and through the woods, to  NUKE P.E. NUKE P E. NUKE P.E. ·sTEvEs· IF You wiiNr i-r:·vou GoT  Aworld of real-life fantasy Where truths are seldom told. !'Y hard to remember, All that glitters is not gold;  
3RIDESNEEDEDTOPmSURGHFOR  SARY.  CALL  GREG  AT  1076.  CAN  Grandmother's  house  we  go,  in  IT!GOBP.  You can pay the piper,  
MAKE$$$. I lost my HP-41 C calculator in  THANKSGIVING  BREAK.  LEAVING  LEAVEANYTIMENEXTWEEK  Youngstown, Ohio. We need a sleigh (at  But you cannot buy his soul.  
erther the  EG audrtoriurn  or  Lafortune  THE  22ND  OR  23RD.  WILL  SHARE  least two rides) to get there, though. We'll  B.P. WANTS IT BACK!  ff's just a game.  
Thursday the 10th. If I don't haven. I can't  USUAL EXPENSES,ETC. CALL VIC AT  SYRACUSE!  IF  YOU  CALLED  ME  supply hay and oats ($$) generously.  
do my homewo rf<! If found call Dominic  239-7471  OR  283-3406.  PLEASE  BEFORE, I NEED A RIDE NOW. CALL  Leaving Wednesday at noon. Please call  Stanford  (ha ha)  Studs:  Get  a  REAL  -Triumph  
1550  LEAVE MESSAGE.  GREGAT1076.  Mary or Sarah at 1311.  defense. BIG RED ROLLS ON ...  

The Observer Friday, November 18, 1983-page 16 
Rugby..ends season today 

Cluh sports have been busy -and successful -this fall with one Indiana State championship, an invitation to a national tournament, and two dominating victories in home tournaments. Here is a recap oftheir seasons. 
•RUGBY-Perhaps the most successful club this fall was the rughy team. Coming off a third-place finish in last spring's Midwest championships, the club is working to regain the national prominence it enjoyed a decade ago. Last year's high finish was enough to earn it a spot in the final four of the NCAA rugby champion­ships, a chance the team had to forego because of ex­ams. This year's championship is scheduled before finals, though, and the team took its first steps to gain a second invitation with a I 0-4 record this season. 
Included in its victories were three wins in a tcmrna­

ment at Indiana University that earned the team the In­
diana State championship. Notre Dame edged Ball State, 
9-6, destroyed Louisville, 44-0, and shut out host In­
diana, 6-0, In the finals. Their first-place finish assured 
the Irish of an invitation to the NCAA Midwest tourna­
ment and a chance to go on to the national champion­
ships in the spring. 
Notre Dame was led again this year by third-year law student Brian Moynihan. Although Moynihan could not equal last year's feat of scoring or assisting in every game, he continued to play a vital role in the success of the Irish. "He is a combination of knowledge and cx­pcricncc," says dub president Geoff Branigan. "Ifthere is one reason that we've risen to where we arc now it's because of Brian. Ht:'s able to teach us both on and off the field. He taught us to be smart rugby players rather than just athletes." 
Another important factor in the success of the Irish was the timely contributions ofnew players in key posi­tions. Wht·n Steve Schneider went down in the second game ofthe year with a separated shoulder, junior Tom Reidy and st·nior Alan Gianotti stepped in to take over the kicking job. It was Gianotti's foot that made the dif­t'ercnce in the championship game in the Indiana State tournamt·nt as he successfully converted two penalty kicks for the only scores of the game. 
When the team wasn't scoring on kicks, they looked to seniors Sean Madden and John Reid to lead a well­balanced scoring attack of both hacks and scrummies. The development of the serum in last spring's Midwest championships gave Notre Dame a new dimension that put them over the top. "The: good play of the serum allowed a lot of people to score," Branigan explains. "It really made us a much better rugby team." 
In addition to the wins at Bloomington, Notre Dame placed second in a tournamt:nt at Holy Cross over fall break. They also won the refurbished Cantwell Cup from Ohio State and dominated Dayton, 28-12, in the last game ofthe season. 
In a specially added game, the Irish will face Air Force today at 3 p.m. on Stepan field. The Air Force, one ofthe most prestigious rugby teams and the runner-up to Cal­Berkeley in last year's national tournament, added the game after the regular season because of Notre Dame's strong finish and rapidly reentry into the rugby elite. The two teams were scheduled to meet in the first round ofthe national tournament last year before Notre Dame had to withdraw, so the match may be a preview ofthe 1984 championship. 
•WATER POLO -While the rugby team was win­ning games at Stepan field, the water polo club was making Its own waves with a respectable 11-9 record. In a conference dominated by varsity programs, includ­ing four out ofthe lOp 19 teams, Notre Dame was able to hold its own and even move up a notch in the rankings. 
The highlight of the season was the team's first home tournament with a field of five good teams. Michigan, the University of Illinois, Kenyon College, Purdue, and Notre Dame took to the Rockne pool and only the Irish stayed afloat with a perfect 4-0 record and an im­pressive victory in its first home tournament. 
The team qualified for the conference champion­ships and finished sixth in the tournament. The good showing moved them from last year's seventh ranking 

Steve Danca 
Sports Writer 
Club Corner 
to sixth in the conference. This was only the second 
time in the history of the club that it was invited to the 
conference tournament. 
On defense, the Irish were led by all-conference 
goalie Chris Packer. In the finals of the home tourna­
ment aganst IUinois, Packer gave up only eight goals 
(that's outstandingfor water polo) during the first three 
periods. More remarkably, he allowed only one more 
goal throughout the fourth quarter, two overtime 
periods, and one sudden death. At the end ofthe sudden 
death overtime, Packer blocked a one-on-one 
breakaway and then started Notre Dame's own break 
that led to the winning goal. 
Sophomore Mike Roberts led the team with 96 goals 
and was followed by senior captain-coach john Smith 
and sophomore Steve Blaha who contrbuted 40 goals 
each. Senior Mike Erhard, sophomores Tom O'Reilly, 
John Coffey, and Charlie Brady, and freshman standout 
Steve Guenther were also crucial to the Irish attack. 
The water polo club is looking to become a varsity 
sport in the near future. Many ofthe referees and oppos­
ing coaches were amazed at the organization and com­
petitive level of Notre Dame even though there is no 
non-student coach. With the young talent and soon-to­
be-new facilities, the team is aiming to ·reach that goal 
soon. 
•CROSS COUNTRY -This fall was a rebuilding season for the women's cross country team as only three runners returned from last year's team. Added to that, senior Rose Marie Luking, the number two runner last year, was hit by a car early in August, sending her down and out and giving her a late start on this year's conditioning. 
Sophomore Anne Attea paced the Irish once again this year and Luking recovered in time to reclaim her number two position on a rapidly-improving team. At­tea established herselfas one ofthe top runners in all of the team's meets. She consistently finished in the top ten of every race and never finished behind another Irish runner. Returning sophomore Susan Wanchow heads a list of runners vying for the other top positons. Rachel Allen, Mary Beth Fiske, Patty Santos, and Katie Ruppe round out the field for Notre Dame. 
The women's track club has already begun to train for the upcoming indoor season. Its first test will be at Purdue on December l 0 for a practice meet before beginning its regular indoor schedule next semester. 
•SOCCER -You can't blame the women's soccer team ifit feels a bit frustrated about the fall season. After outplaying six ofits eight opponents, all the team has to show for its efforts is a l-4-3 record. 
The team's lone win was a 12-0 shellacking of Ferris State. Forward Letty Valdez scored three times and Beth Noland and Mary Borkowski both had two goals to lead Notre Dame. Michelle Grace, Helen Locher, Susan Gor­don, Kerry Havercamp, and Angela Eggleston each had one goal to finish the scoring for the team. Goalkeeper Chris Anders turned in her only shutout of the year and combined with sweeper Nancy Hoodecheck to shut down the Ferris State offense. 
Notre Dame could understand how it felt to get beaten up on by a bigger team as it fell 9-0 to Michigan State and 8-0 to Indiana on consecutive days. Both teams have varsity programs and used the chance to flex their muscles against an outmatched Notre Dame. The team fought back though, and outplayed Northwes­tern, St. Mary's, and Wheaton College before settlingfor ties in each game. 
The team will begin the defense of its indoor title in January. 
SPECIAL RATES AVAILABLE FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK 
Wednesday noon to Thursday noon 

--------··----------..·----------------­
Cosimo Hair Design 
18461 St. Rd. 23 277-1875 
Men: Regularly $14.95, Special Price $10" Women: Regularly $20, Special Price $15• 
• with coupon for Notre Dame students only 
Co-Designers Only: Men $7 Women $10 
--------··------11!111...--------------------­


"HIISTORY REPEATS ITSELF" 
NOT SINCE 1911 HAVE WE BEEN ABLE TO OFFER SKI PACKAGES FOR 
$199
95· 
Regularly 1390.00 


brand narM eqwipnent tueh ot lkit from flon, boob from 
A.lpina, binclngJ from Solomon, and poM frCMI look, You 
...a whopping$, 190.00 oH of refail. You octn chooM 
from ~ I 0 Mlect.d liU pockopt. And H _.. cloft:t hot. ,.... portic:ulor pcdogeo you'relooking lot, .Net any lkl pcdage ~ond we wiU givtl you 10% oH ,_ Across from 
.......... 

Unlv. Park Mall Sale ends Sunday, November 20 HOURS:
OPEl UrfiL ::Jr1 
Dally 10·9, Sao. 10-5 
t:OO TOIIIIHT 

212-4411 
Sun. 12-5 
Fri. & Sat. Nite 
SMOKESTACK LIGHTNING BLUES BAND 
Featuring: 
Fresh Blue Point Oysters & 
Large Gulf Shrimp 
Jazz &Blues 6 nights a week 
Open Spm TUES. THRU SAT. 7pmSUNDAY 
See us for all ofyour car related needs. 
Four Day minimum rental 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, November 18, 1983 -page 17 Rouse optimistic 
Belles· open basketball season 

By DAVE WD..SON 
Sports Writer 
Shooting, quickness, and defense. These seem to be the three keys to the success of the 1983-84 Saint Mary's College basketball season. Second-year head coach Michael Rouse looks beyond possible height and depth problems and instead is firmly optimistic about his team's strengths. 
"Our shooting is exceptional," says Rouse. "Teams will tend to un­derestimate us this year because of our height, and they may not an­ticipate our speed nor our shooting capabilities." 
The Belles will sport a ten-player squad this season; unfortunately, juniorforward Carla Sebasty will not be eligible until the spring semester. Rouse will start three returning let­termen: senior forward and co­




A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
captain Cyndy Short (9.8 points per game last season), junior center­forward Elaine Suess ( 16.1 ppg last season), and junior guard Mary McQuillan ( 5.4 ppg last season). Rounding out the starters will be sophomore forward Beth Kreher (pending a foot injury) and fresh­man guard Kris Pantelleria. Pan­telleria JOms the Belles with impressive marks. She is an all-state honorable mention player out of Benton Harbor, Michigan, whom Rouse considers to be both "very quick" and "consistently ag­
gressive." 
Of the remaining players, junior forward Teresa McGinnis will hold the first substitute spot ( 10 ppg last season), while freshmen Lori White and Mariclaire Driscoll will back up the guards, and junior Betsy Ebert will serve both the forward and cen­ter positions. 
Students-Campus Reps Part· Time-Evenings-Weekends 
SALES JOBS 
Earn extra dollars calling on people who have requested information on our products. We see mainly by appointment in a dignified and professional manner. Complete training offered. 
For details, call Dr. Thompson at 287·2926 
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA 
THE HUDDLE 239-7157  
OAK ROOM CAFE 239-7518  
MENU Caviar Pizza 14" Leprechaun Special Pizza Pepperoni Pizza Mushroom Pizza Sausage Pizza Peppers & Onions Black Olives-Anchovies pizza Cheese Pizza  $10.00 9.00 6.80 6.80 6.80 6.80 6.80 5.80  

0 With every order of pizza (1full14" pizza) you receive 1 2-litre bottle of Coke. Offer expires 11/30/83 
OPERATING HOURS FOR DELIVERY TO DORM OR OTHER CAMPUS FACILITIES: 9:00pm -12:30 am Huddle 
9:00 pm -12:00 pm <;>akroom 

"A small team allows the freshmen to play right away," points out Rouse. "It will be good preparation for future teams." 
Hoping to improve on a 9-13 record oflast season, the Belles must overcome a definite height problem. At 5-8, Kreber and Ebert stand as the team's tallest players, while center Suess measures up at just 5-5. As a result, the team will turn to a full­court press and rely on their strong outside shooting. 
"We plan to play full-court defense right from the start," an­ticipates Rouse. "I have seven dif­ferent defensive patterns from which to choose, and most of these will be a man-to-man situation." 
Perhaps the single category that will make or break the Belles' season is turnovers. 
Rouse declares, "We run a fast­paced offense with a minimum of passing. Add to that a 30-second shooting clock and you have the potential for many turnovers. They were our biggest problem last season." 
An advantage of this year's squad over last year's is experience. Five of seven lettermen return, which is a far cry from last year, when the Belles had lost their top six players 
and  were  working  under  a  new  
coach.  
Judging  the  opponents  this  

season, Rouse anticipates a much more difficult schedule than in his first year. "Eight of nine teams we beat last year will not return this year. On the other hand, just as many teams who did beat us will return on this year's schedule." 
The coach sees Siena Heights, Franklin, Defiance, and Aquinas Col­leges among the more difficult con­tests. The season will also carry the usual Goshen Classic, Hanover Tournament, and SMC Roundball Classic, which, unfortunately, may not be played because one of the entrants, St. Xavier College, withdrew. 
On Sunday the Belles will hold a preseason scrimmage against Lake Michigan College, a top junior col­lege that went to the nationals last year. Then Tuesday night, the team will formally open its home season with a 7 p.m. contest against Siena Heights College in Angela Athletic Facility. 
According to Rouse, "I'm pleased with the preseason, excited about the team, and anxious to play ball." 
After five weeks of intense practice, the Belles are ready to produce. 
• • • Ice 

continued/rom page 20 
They will be getting more pressure and must be able to react to it." 
Offensively the Irish have had little trouble turning on the red light. Co-captain Brent Chapman leads the team with eight goals and seven assists. Bob Thebeau is second adding, four goals and nine assists. Benning is third with 12 points on four goals and eight assists. 
"Our first three lines are playing well," said the Irish mentor. "If we can get more stability out of the fourth line, it will be a big help." 
Tim Lukenda, the freshman goal·· tender who collected the first Notre Dame shutout of the year last weekend against Illinois, will be in the nets on Friday. Smith has not yet decided on Sunday's starter. 
Putting all of the positive aspects of the team aside, one thing that has been disappointing for them so far this season is the attendance at the home games. 
Friday's face-off is at 8:00p.m. On Sunday aftern~on, the game gets un­der way at 2:30. Both games are at the ACC. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are admitted free with their student ID cards. 
Traditionarltalian Cuisine Fettucini-Lasagna-Veal Parmiagiana Bucatini Con Broccoli Pizza 
277·0578 
f ,, ?tO---3 ..~~ .,..,IIQ .,, • 
18455 South Bend Ave. (1 rryile east of Notre Dame) 
Lunch-Dinner-Carry-outs Complete wine &cocktail list 


The Observer Friday, Novetnber 18, 1983-page 18 
------------------------------------------------------------~--­
Inexperienced but talented squad 
Wrestling team begins action 

ByJOE BRUNEm 
Sports Writer 
Prohahly to the surprise of many, 

the Notre Dame wrestling team has 
opened its 1983-84 season. This 
season's first showing for the team 
came last weekend in tht: Michigan 
State tournament in which the Irish 
finished seventh and had two 
wrestlers reach the finals. It also 
marked the heginning of a difficult 
schedule that Notre Dame's inex· 
perienced but talented squad will 
have to face this year. 
Coach Brother Joseph Bruno, C.S.C., heads into his fourth season as tht.· Irish coach with an impressive career record of39-13-1, including a brilliant 18·2 mark last year. This year he faces a big challenge as his latest team lacks some experience at this point ofthe season. Notre Dame is a young squad with only one senior in the starting lineup, but they possess the greatest overall depth of any squad in Notre Dame history. 
Commenting on the inexperience 

of the team, Bruno says, "I don't 
think we will be outclassed by any 
team in terms of conditioning or 
skills. The only thing our opponents 
may outclass us in is experience. We 
lack the mat experience of many 
other teams." 
That lone returning senior in the lineup is Michigan resident Mark Fis· her. In the 126-pound class last season, Fisher posted a 38-13 record which was enough to give him the school record for the most wins in a season. 
Despite the skill and experience 

of l'isher, however, a junior, Phil 
Baty, also plays a major role in the 
team's success hy providing a great 
dt.·al of lt.'adership. Baty, a 4.0 pre· 
mcd studcnt who was elected by his 
teammates to be team captain, holds 
down the 177-pound weight divi­
sion. Baty posted a 32·9·1 mark last 
year, and he won the "Outstanding 
Wrestler Award" for the second 
straight year. 
Bruno had a great recruiting year, hringing to Notre Dame nine fresh­men. Three of his recruits will fill out the I 18-pound clas:; with Carl Hildengcr and Mark Hetrich attempting to edge out Greg Fleming, last year's Michigan Class A 
State Champion. 
Other freshmen also fighting for a starting hid will be Bob Stefan, Scott Biast.·tti, Tom Ryan, and George Logsdon. Stefan and Biao;etti will at­tempt to edge out junior Dan lleintzdman in the 142-pound class. Heintzelman was 24-1 'i last season, and he also holds three school rccords. At 167, Ryan will att<:mpt to heat out John Krug, last year's win­ncr of the Golden Leprechaun 
OVERSEAS JOBS Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightseeing. Free Info.· Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625  

Ir··---------------,
LEE'S RIBS I 

I I 
I I
I Buy One Regular : fDinner and receivel
I 1  The Mini Tip for $1.75  I!  
1I  with this coupon expires 11-19-83  1I  
r Open Saturday 12-4  I  

L-•••••••••••••••••• 
Award. Logsdon and junior Matt Stamm will battle for the starting nod at 190 pounds. 
Two twins from California, Louis and John Carnesale, control rhe starting spots in the I50· and I 58­weight classes. Junior Scott Ben­tivenga will attempt to take John Carnesale's position at I 50. At I 58, senior Pat Jolin is battling with the other Carnesale. Louis. 
Rounding out the last two weight divisions will be Mike Golic and either Glenn Glogas or Man Doug­herty. Once again, Irish football standout Golic will anchor the heavyweight division. Golic posted a brilliant 24-2-1 record in the 1982­
83 season. At 134, two sophomores 
-Glogas, a redshirt, and Dougherty 
-will vie for the starting nod. 
IRISH ITEMS -At lao;t week's Michigan State tournament, the Irish gave their most impressive showing ever in the tourney. Baty and Fisher reached the finals, and Louis Car­nesale placed fourth. Coach Bruno was pleased with the reams perfor­mance and considered the tourna­ment to be "a gauge for the rest of the season." 
The Irish will once again hit the road this weekend, this time travel­ing to Carroll College in Wisconsin to meet rival Drake and four Wiscon­sin schools in a tournament. 

24·Hou1r Hoops 
Saturday 

7 p.m. -Opening Ceremonies 
7:30 -Alumni-Dillon 
8:50 -BP-Farley 

10:20 -Keenan-Stanford 
11:40 -Big Bros.-Circle K 
1:10 a.m. -St. Ed's-Sorin 2:_30 -Walsh 
2:30 -Badin-Walsh 

6:50 -Holy Cross-Carroll 8:10-Howard-Morrissey 
9:40 -Lyons-SWE 11:00-K of C-Young Dems 
12:30 p.m. -Students FRFC 1:50-Fisher-Pangborn 3:20-PE-PW 
4:40 -Grace-Fianner 6:10-Zahm-Cavanaugh 



'JI['4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------F-rl-·d_a_y,_N_o_¥_e_m_~_e_r_1_8_,_1_9_8_3___
p_a_g_e_1_9 


Bloom County 



Fate 
ITS A GfF~T TllfN CUT

8[;f 1 Tf/Eii't 5UKt /IRE 
{~!:THE DIW!J ~WIFCr:.D

A ur U' P£~f'LE HERE I 
GAME 


Mellish 

THI' /)N'T INTE{fiALL/ iU£i'RE R DAY EA!i.LY THIS . I( NOTRE Dlll"/t-AJK (CfCE 

11110./f.'.','. 
It '"l\~ 
,.,.. 
II 11 1 

Campus · 
•12: 
15 p.m. -Colloquium, "Soviet American Relations and Deterrence," Roger Hamburg, 509 Memorial library 

•3:30 
p.m. -Philosophy Speaker, Prot: Richard Schacht, Library Lounge 

•3:30 
p.m. -Block Party, Sponsored by NO Senior Class, ACC 

•4 
p.m. -Spanish Club Tertulla, LaFortune MainFloor ' 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "An enzyme which binds to a specific DNS sequence and reg· ulates its gene expressions," Prof Paul R Schim· mel, 123 NSH 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Wait Until Dark," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, 

•8 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, NO Men vs. St. Thomas, ACC 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "Kitchen Gothic," SMC little Theatre, $1 

•8:
15 p.m. -Fall Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall 


n  
•7:30  p.m.  - Friday  Night  Film  Series,  
"Twilight's  Last  Gleaming,"  Annenberg  
Auditorium  

Saturday,Nov.19 
•8 
a.m. -Test, Educational Service Examination, Engineering Auditorium 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Football, NO vs. Air Force, Stadium 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Wait Until Dark," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, 


$1 

•8 p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "Kitchen Gothic," SMC little Theatre, $1 
Sunday, Nov. 20 
•2:30 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, NO Men vs St. Thomas, ACC 

•4 
p.m. -Music Department Fall Concert, Laura Klugherz, Faculty violin recital, Annenberg Auditorium, 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m.-Film, "Tommy," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, 


$1 

•8 p.m. -1V Program, "The Day After," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns and Educational Media, Free 
Far Side · 

"Are they gaining, Huxley?" 
Berke Breathed 

Photius 
OH 'WOW. WELL L1 ST£N, I'lL 
CAW/ YOU UITE/? I'VE ~OT 
A TUM fMffR TNAT I CAN 
BE WuRKtNC:t vN 
I 

Dave & Dave 


The Daily Crossword 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 11/18/83All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 1 Big birds 6 Hang-up 
10 Man for all seasonings 14 National 
bird 15 Dance 16 Judd 
Hirsch show 
17 Of submi· croscopic infectors 
18 Indigo 19 Swerve 20 Western 
Indian 21 Photograph· 
er's lid 24 Leprechaun 25 Pocking 
27 Eggson 29 Shot of rum 31 Chihuahua's bark 32 Incised 
carvings 36 Tether 40 Sullen 41 Priscilla's 
man 43 -and shine! 44 Eye socket 46 British · 
navy brass 
48 Protection against sickness costs: abbr. 
50 Sailing vessel 51 Tire out 
55 Crested birds 59 Majors 
of TV 60 Hacked 62 61 63 Concerning 65 Mimicking 
answer 66 Exemplar 68 Condemn 69 Eyedrop 70 -and alas! 71 Extremities 72 Eyelid 
sore: var. 73 --gritty 
DOWN 1 Get started 2 Duvalier's 
domain 3 Heron 4-mode 5 Drummer's 
forte 6 Utopia 7 Sisters 8 Carroll 
heroine 9 MilkyWay 10 American 
coins: abbr. 11 Czech coin 12 Rejoice 13 Feudal 
domains 22-Gay 23 Donahue 
of TV 
26 Alexandra Rom a nov 28 Surgeons 
do it 30 Hot"'drrnk 32 Bachelor.'s 
last words 33 Neither's associate 34 Bathing 
vessel 35 Flag signal 37 Be in pain 38 Concorde 39 Attention 
getter 42 Nook 45 So 47 Native of 
a Greek 
island 49 Aits 51 Slur 52 Gaseous 
element 53 Biblical king 
54 Silence sign in music 
56 Sheepish 
expression 57 Precise 58 Soft and 
smooth 61 One-horse carriage 
64 German river 
67 551 
O'HARE --$9.00 


"Wind up the season 
Student union bus leaves Wednesday 1:00 PM 

with a victory"
Sign up at S.U. Ticket Office/Record Store by Tuesday 4:00 PM *Also South Shore Shuttle from station to campus on Sunday night 
Enjoy yourself at Senior Bar before and after the Air Force game 
Friday, November 18, 1983-page 20
Sports 
St. Thomas presents challenge in hockey 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team will face its first hig challenge of the 198.3-84 season this weekend. The Irish play host to St. Thomas, last year's Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference champions. St. Thomas is a Division II varsity team from St. Paul. 
Notre Dame takes a 5-0 record in­to the series, hut all five victories have come at the expense of sub­stantially less talented opponents. To date, the Irish have outscored their opposition hy an astounding 56-4 margin. 
Irish coach Lefty Smith, as well as his players, recognizes that teams like Illinois State, Northwestern, and weekend, we've had to change our attitude and become more intense." 
The increased intensity was evi­dent at this week's. workouts. "This week's practices have been the hard­est of the season," Ely said. "We're looking forward to St. Thomas. It will be a real test to sec if we're a team or a club." 
Notre Dame will he the first op­position for St. Thomas this season. Although St. Thomas has yet to play a game, Smith' is not expecting to see many first game jitters. 
"They arc a good team with a good coach," he said. "They don't recruit outside of the state, but, he­cause of all the high school hbckey in the area, they can put together a solid program. Terry Abram, the coach. was an All-American at North 
Illinois arc not indicative of the level Dakota." of compt·tition that they will sec The series will also mark the both this ':Vn·kcnd and in games to reunion of a former player and his come. coach. This time the player will he 
"We havt· yet to he really tested," coaching against his former coach. said Smith. "But the kids have an ex­Abram played for Smith in the early cellent attitude. They fully under­60's when Smith was coaching at stand the situation and arc waiting South St. Paul High School. for the chance to prove thcmselvt·s Smith is anticipating strong against better competition." forechecking from St. Thomas, and 

Junior Steve Ely cchot~s Smith's has been preparing his team to feeling.~. "Being mentally prepared handle the situation. ByJANE HEALEY this weekend's North Sta:r Con­Vanslagcr is the one working on against a lesser team is hard," he "We've picked up the pace in Assistant Sports Editor ference. Tournament as a way to the attitude situation. stated. "We had a team meeting on practice," he said. "Our defenscmen salvage its 10-22 year. "The key is going to be how Tuesday, and discussed the fact that will have to move the puck quicker. The disappointment ofthis season The tournament is being hosted relaxed we are," she said. "We have what we've played so far has not is beginning to surface in the vol­by the University of Dayton and to play good relaxed volleyball. We hccn real hockey. Preparing for this see ICE, page 17 leyball camp. The team is looking at begins today with the first round of can't worry about the last time we 
play. Loyola of Chicago is the No. 1 played St. Louis. We can't worry seed going into the tourney. about the tournament title. We have In the single elimination competi­to take things a.<; they are." tion, Notre Dame's first match is Vanslager isn't really worried 
against the No. 2 seed St. LoUiis. The about capturing the tournament Irish had a hard-fought battle with St. championship. Going into the com­Louis earlier in the season, ev·entual­petition as the No. 7 seed, she is 
If half the rumors circulating around campus -and 
ly fulling, 15-10, I 0-1 5, 9-15, 15-9, seeking modest goals. around tht· country -were true, then Gerry Faust would and 12-15 .. "If we beat St. Louis, we are he resigning on national television at the pep rally, Don The closeness of the previous guarentced a spot in the top four," ShuIa would he ready to move into the ACC with his assis­match sheds a ray of hope on this she said. "If we could finished first, tant Lou Holtz -or will the Holy Cross coach come to Mike Sullivan weekend's prospects. second, or third, I would feel that we South Bend? -and Gene Corrigan would resign as ath­"We lost to St. Louis in a very tight got the job done." ktic director. Sports Editor match last time," Coach Sandy 
Rumors, Rumors everywhere 

Settling for a position in the topWhether the rumors arc being spread because ofwish­Vanslagcr said. "I feel if we run our four rather than striving for theful thinking or whatever, I'd like to say after some middle attack, hit with a.o; much championship is an attitude invt·~:tigation that none of thcst· rumors arc true. The offi­The students don't care about how nice a guy he is, power as we possess, and play con­Vanslagcr was forced to adopt as thecial word from Gerry Faust and the athletic department is though. They are here for four years and they only think sistent ball, we'll do all right." 
season progressed.

a definite "NO." Actually, some of the rumors may he in terms of four years. Three years have passed without Part ofthe middle attack teo which "We arc not anywhere I thoughtbased on some factual evidence -Lou Holtz was on much success and the students, especially juniors like Vanslagcr is referring is senior we would he at this time," she said. 
campus twoyeurs ago because his·son wanted to attend myself; sec that only one chance remains. If Faust stays Terese Henken. After three years of "There are many reasons, but no­Notre Dame --but even thcst· rumors have been another year, there goes that chance -so the thinking contributing to the power of the thing hurt us nore than injuries."
stret<:hed to ridiculous proportions. goes. Is it fair to think like that? Irish offense, Henken will be par­The two major injuries were suf­
As tor those players who want to finish the season as ticipating in her ll'.st Notre Dame 
fered by scholarship players KarenThe rumor epidemic is only part ofwhat has become a soon as possible, is it fair to their teammates that they will match. She will not be able to travel Bauters and Kathy McKeown. 
very unusual football wt·ek. The news that the ad­he giving a halfhearted performance? They may be to Louisiana over Thanksgiving for Bauters is out ofaction with a stressministration had broken its past policy and had accepted graduating, but their younger teammates are going to personal reasons. 
fracture of her leg, while McKeown a minor bowl bid started everything. Then Faust showed wear the uniform next year. They have had no Sugar Bowl "I'm kind of sad," Henken said. 
is recoveringfrom shoulder surgery.
that the pressure and second-guessing was getting to him yet, so a Liherty Bowl sounds nice. They won't get the "It's been such a long season since by losing his temper at his weekly press conference. The chance iftheir teammates drag the rest ofthe team down. we're not winning, but I think we The 10-22 record is extremely fact that the local media, which has been very slow to Air Force wants to win. It has a bowl bid riding on the can salvage it this weekend." hard to accep~ after a 25-9 mark in criticize Faust so far, began questioning him was news in game, too. The key to the salvation of the only the third year of varsity status. itself. team is not based in the fundaman­But making the jump to Division I 
But Faust isn't the only one who is angry. Some of the Talking about Gerry Faust is difficult. He is such a nice tals as in many past performancesfor competition and dealing with the in­players are angry that this St'ason, which seems like it will guy in public that it seems like, by attacking him, you are the Irish. The team effort and at­juries Vanslager mentions, has made never end, will be extended. Practices during the week attacking everything that Notre Dame stands for. titude seem paramount. the year a tough one. A North Star before exams, and a game against a Catholic school that However, he is heginning to pick up a reputation ofbeing "We need to play together as a Conference Championship would wants nothing more than to beat Notre Dame, do not sit a not-so-nice guy. The job is doing it to him. Ranking Pitt unit," Henken said. "If we can be a certainly he what the doctor or­well with these certain players. Hopefully, there are more ridiculously high so it would be in the Top 20 when it team, we'll do well." dered. 

players who want to heat Air Force on regional television came to Notre Dame is just one example. The players, for and usc the Uberty Bowl as a steppingstone for next year . the most part, do not respect him. Some, in fact, strongly than there are players who don't care. Another loss to Air dislike him. A big change from the way it used to be, isn't Force would be embarrassing -especially on television. it? 
On top of all this, the students are getting very sick of By no means is this an indictment of the man himself. football. They hoped for the Sugar Bowl until Pitt. They Rather, it is an indictment ofthe job. Family and God have hoped for the Fiesta Bowl until Penn State. Now, they to come before coaching, and Notre Dame coaches have the Uberty BowL Memphis, Tenn., is not very warm sometimes have to keep this in mind. Unfortunately, in late Decemher and many discouraged students do not there arc some "fans" who do not think a Notre Dame feel it's worth it. I'll be thc:re, but I think I'll be in the football coach and his family deserve some respect and minority. I just hope the players want to go. protection from verbal abuse. The worst part ofIt is that 
the coach can do nothing about it except win. And when 
This is a crucial time for the football program. Very few he isn't winning ... people have their priorities straight. Not the fans across I have no idea about how Gerry Faust is dealing with the country, not some ofthe: players, and maybe not even the situation, except that I'm sure it bothers him to no Gerry Faust. end. His religious background can only help. But, when 
Tht· rumors that arc running rampant about Faust's you have to pray for a play to work or·pray for a win so suppost·d resignation are a.~ much the product of wishful that you and your family can live in peace, there is some­thinking a.~ anything else. There were not nearly as many thing definitely wrong. rumors in the pa.~t two years. The la.~t time this happened It comes downto a decision: Is it all worth it? was when Dan Ikvint· went 7-4. Obviously, people arc That is what Gerry Faust may one: day have to decide. hlaming l'aust t·ntirely for the team's failure despite his He may not decide tonight, but it seems that every Notn· puhlk reputation ofheing a nice guy.. Dame coach ha.o; eventually asked himselfthat questi<)n. 

[. 
!;'.
On ~Campus .. 
TODAY SUNDAY 
rugby women's interhall vs. Air Force P.E. vs. B.P. 3:30 1 p.m. behind Stepan Notre Dame Stadium 
hockey men's interhall vs. St. Thomas Dillon vs. Stanford 8p.m. 2p.m. ACC North Dome Notre Dame Stadium 


