g_
a es a A. 
• • • L 'il Sibs -page 5 

VOL. XVII, NO. 131 tht: indt:pt:ndc.:nt •,rudc.:nt nc.:w~papc.:r ~lT\·ing notrt: dame.: and ~aint mary's MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1983 

Cardinal Bernardin to deliver ND commencement address 
By PAUL McGINN nation's largest Roman Catholic see, deterrence; the practical strategies and MARK WORSCHEH has more than 2.4 million members. for peace and the "distinction. be­News Editors As archbishop, Bernardin also heads tween moral principles and their ap­the Chicago parochial school sys­plication in concrete circumstances 
Joseph L. Cardinal Bernardin, tem, the fourth largest school sys­in orqer to clarify the different levels archbishop of Chicago, will deliver tem in the nation behind the public of moral authority in the docu­the commencement address to school systems of New York City, ment." Notre Dame's class of 1983 at its Los Angeles, and Chicago. The son of an immigrant Italian graduation ceremony May 15, The Before assuming his duties in stonecutter, Bernardin was born on Observer has learned through an Chicago, Bernardin had been the April 2, 1928, in Columbia, S.C. His anonymous source. archbishop ofCincinnati, Ohio. father died when Bernardin was six, 
Peter Foote, director of com­An outspoken critic of nuclear and his mother supported the family munications for the Archdiocese of proliferation, Bernardin heads the by working as a seamstress. Chicago, would neither confirm nor drafting committee of the National He attended a parochial school in deny the report. "That's news to us. Council of Catholic Bishops' Pas­Columbia before receiving his high We don't know anything about it. toral on War and Peace. , school diploma from the public We haven't yet received the car­He is credited with much of the Columbia High School, where he dinal's schedule for the month of planning and writing of the docu­was a straight-A student. Bernardin May," Foote said. ment, the third draft of which is to received a scholarship from the Uni­
Director of Notre Dame Informa­be voted upon by the American bis­versity of South Carolina to study tion Services Richard Conklin, con­hops at their next meeting May 2 premedicine. While working at a tacted by The Observer yesterday, and 3 in Chicago. The document, Catholic hospital, however, he said, "Father Hesburgh's policy has released earlier this month, turned to the priesthood, dropping been that we won't release the name criticizes both the United States and out of U.S.C. after three semesters. ofthe commencement speaker until the Soviet Union for their parts in He matriculated at Saint Mary's all the honorary degree recipients the continued testing and deploy­Seminary in Baltimore in 1948, have responded. There's one person ment ofnuclear arms. where he earned a B.A. degree in who hasn't said yay or nay." "Asa people," the letter states, philosophy. 
Neither Bernardin nor his chief "we must refuse to legitimize the Four years later, after receiving aide, Father James Roach was idea of nuclear war." Further, the his master's degree in education available for comment. pastoral rejects any first-use nuclear from Catholic University in Wash­
Bernardin, 55, has been arch­strategy because "the moral respon­ington, D.C., Barnardin was or­bishop of Chicago since Aug. 24, sibility ofbeginning nuclear war (is) dained a priest of the Diocese of 1982 when he was selected by Pope not justitled by rational moral prin­Charleston, S.C. John Paul II to fill the post which had ciple-s." The drafting ofthe letter has Bernardin was consecrated a bis­been vacant since the death ofJohn provoked much debate concerning hop in 1966 and was assigned as Cardinal Cody on April 25, 1982. the role ofbishops in politics. auxiliary to the late Archbishop Paul Bernardin was elevated to the car­Many critics of the third draft of Hallinan. dinalate by the pop~ Feb. 2. the pastoral argue that the Reagan Two years later, he returned to 
The Archdiocese of Chicago, the Administration applied pressure to Washington as the full-time general the bishops to change the wording secretary of the National Con­of the first two drafts to soften ference of Catholic Bishops stances on the use, deployment and (NCCB). 
deterrent nature of nuclear Chosen archbishop of Cincinnati weapons. by Pope Paul Vi in 1972, Bernardin

Warsaw uprising commemorated 
In the discussion of the pastoral immediately became known for his document, Bernardin has cited six diligence and humble lifestyle.

WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Police The developments came a day af­blocked from leaving his home in major areas of specitlc concentra­He was known to spend manyarmed with machine pistols routed ter police announced the arrest ofat .Lodz, 80 miles southwest ofWarsaw, tion: Scripture; the "just war" theory sleepless nights working in the chan­1,000 Solidarity supporters in War­least 26 Solidarity backers in ap­to attend yesterday's wreathlaying. 
parent retaliation the and its relationship with the non­cery office writing policy state­
saw yesterday, while Cardinal Jozef for under­"My most heartfelt wish and duty violent tradition of Catholicism; the ments, sermons, and a weeklyGlemp traveled to Gdansk and met ground's call for nationwide was to be here with you," Edelman dialogue between the U.S. and thewith Lech Walesa in a strong gesture protests May 1. Lech Walesa, leader wrote. "Unfortunately, the security 
See McMANUS, page 6 
Soviet Union; the moral question of

of church support for the outlawed of the outlawed union, met with the forces prevented me." union. underground a week ago, and Police in \li:'arsaw moved in after agreed they would coordinate 
South Bend diocese 
the crowd flashed victory signs and policies. sang union songs at an unofficial Janusz Onyszkiewicz, Solidarity's ceremony marking the 40th an­former national spokesman, was led 


Bishop discusses peace letter 

niversary of the Warsaw ghetto away by two plainclothesmen yes­uprising. terday after giving a speech at a lly SONYA STINSON around about who got to the biS­ment," McManus said. 
Authorities detained at least three monument to the 70,000 Jews who SeniorStaffReporter hops' committee," McManus said. But the bishop also revealed he people, including Solidarity's former were killed or captured in the 1943 He said there have been suggestions personally disagrees with the national spokesman, who told the ghetto uprising against Nazi occupa­Referring to the threat of nuclear that the current administration put change. "I think that the word 'curb' crowd that if the Warsaw ghetto tion forces. war as an "insanity," Bishop William pressure on the bishops to make the ought to be dropped, and the word fighters were alive today they would Addressing the crowd, McManus of the Fort Wayne-South letter sound more in concert with its 'halt' restored," he stated. join Solidarity in the "fight for truth, Onyszkiewicz sai<J.."We came here Bend diocese joined Father Richard views. Warner explained in greater freedom and human dignity." because we could1'iot tlnd a place in Warner, an Indiana provincial supe­
detail the major changes made in the 
At another gathering, Glemp told the official ceremonies." rior, in a discussion of the forthcom· third draft and discussed the process 10,000 faithful at an outdoor Mass in The wreathlaying was organized ing U.S. bishops' letter on war and of forming the committee and Warsaw that the Communist by those refusing to take part in an peace last night in the Library composing the letter. government has not responded to elaborate anniversary sponsored by Auditorium. The idea for the document first initiatives to open a dialogue with the government. The official com­The third draft ofthe letter, which came about in November, 1980, Solidarity, and that the Polish people memoration has drawn about I,500 i~ titled "The Challenge of Peace: when the bishops met in Washing­are "humiliated before the world." foreign visitors, most of them Jews, God's Promise and Our Response," ton. An ad hoc committee on war 
Glemp later went to Gdansk for but has been marred by protests was released for publication April 6. and peace was formed, and its first 
ceremonies consecrating Auxiliary over a plan by a Palestine Liberation The bishops will meet in Chicago on meeting was in July, 1981. At that Bishop Tadeusz Goclawski. The Organization representative to take May 2 and 3 to consider the latest meeting, the bishops decided to use Roman Catholic primate received part tomorrow. draft, which must pass by a two­an open process in drafting the let­Walesa in the sacristy of St. Mary's Onyszkiewicz told the unofficial thirds majority. ter. Cathedral for 30 minutes before the gathering that "If the heroes of the McManus said the tlnal draft According to Warner, the bishops consecration, according to Polish ghetto were alive today, I am sure probably will pass. He and Warner held hearings and spoke to consul­sources and Western reporters who that they would join us in the tight discussed some of the alterations McManus called these sugges­tants in many area of expertise. The witnessed the meeting. for truth, freedom and human dig­made in the latest version of the let­tions "downright insulting," and said consultants included Secretary of 
They said the two men discussed nity." ter. One change which has been the the reason for the changed wording Defense Casper Weinberger, former the interrogation of Walesa, his wife -Onyszkiewicz spoke moments af­focus of a lot of media attention is was the attempt to reflect the wide­Secretaries of Defense Harold and their driver last week by police ter another speaker, Roman Zimer, the replacement of the word "halt" ranging views of the bishops and Brown and James Schlesinger, a seeking information about his secret read a letter from the only leader of with the word "curb" in reference to assure a passing vote. physician, and a host of theologians meeting with underground union the uprising still living in Poland -the nuclear arms build-up. "Ifthere isn't a two-thirds vote for 
See ADDRESS, page 6

leaders. Dr. Marek Edelman, who was "There's a lot of chatter going the statement, there won't be a state­




News Briefs 
Monday, April18, 1983-page 2 
II~· l'hl' ( JhsetH•r and The Associated Press 

''What's the use?'' 
Saint Mary's Boardof-Regentswas on campus 
this weekend for its spring session. The Regents attended classes on Thursday, and committees on development, education, student life and finance and budget convened. The board met Friday to discuss the transfer offunds to reserve for fire and safety improvements, and to report on the college center, among other topics. The board would not release information regarding its decisions. Dr. Jack Dug­gan, College president, said a press release will be issued by tomor­row. -The Observer 
Millionaire lawyer Bernard Epton, who 
criticized the news media repeatedly during his unsuccessful bid to 
become mayor of Chicago, is trying to put together a syndicate to 
buy the Chicago Sun-Times. The Chicago Tribune reported yester­
day that Epton had spent the past few days arranging to make a bid 
for the newspaper from Palm Beach, Fla., where he arrived Wednes­
day for a vacation after his loss to Democrat Harold Washington the 
day before. Epton also said that if he acquired the newspaper, he 
would "immediately" fire Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist Mike 
Royko and another Sun-Times columnist, Roger Simon. Epton 
criticized both columnists during his unsuccessful mayoral cam­
paign. Kenneth Towers, the newspaper's assistant managing editor­
news, said Royko and Simon were not available for comment, and 
reiterated the newspaper's earlier statement that "all reasonable, 
qualified bids" for the newspaper would be considered. -AP 
A hamburger, french fries and soft drink ­
the ever-popular American meal -may be producing the criminals of tomorrow, warns a Tacoma, Wash., criminologist. Alexander G. Schauss, author of "Diet, Crime and Delinquency," realizes many people will shake their heads and snicker when they hear his theory. "This does not mean that people commit crimes because they eat Big Macs and Twinkles," said Schauss, the director of the American Institute of Biosocial Research. But he insists there is a connection between junk food and crime. Schauss outlined his theories here at last week's Indiana Conference on Nutrition and Behavior. He claimed that food allergies foster violence, that too much sugar and milk in a child's diet can sometimes lead to disruptive behavior. Parents and taxpayers would both save money and headaches if problems created by poor diets are treated, he said. "I know it's part 
ofour American life style (junk food), but we've got to try to change that life style." -AP 
Princess Diana has put on a few pounds during her month's tour of Australia, say British journalists, but Buckingham Palace yesterday denied rumors that she is pregnant. The denial was issued first in Auckland, New Zealand, where Diana arrived over the weekend with her husband, Prince Charles, and 10-month-old Prince William. "The Princess ofWales is not pregnant," said Buckin­gham Palace, confirming the Australian statement. Nigel Dempster, gossip columnist for London's Daily Mail, said in an interview Friday with Australian television, "I believe there could be another royal birth in November." Dempster based his prediction on 21­year-old Diana's apparent weight gain in Australia and the lack ofany official engagements published for November. The Press Associa­tion, the British domestic news agency, quoted royal aides as calling the speculation about a royal pregnancy "total rubbish." -AP 
"HOpptng. rnad" -that's how investors in Michigan and three surrounding states feel towards an Indiana firm whose owner promised their investments would multiply as fast as the rab­bits he sold them. But instead of their cash, investors say, their problems with Conejo Rex Co. and owner Richard Kloche are the only things doing any multiplying. "I've had as many as 500 rabbits around here," said a Bad Axe, Mich. farmer who invested in Conejo Rex. "I've been butchering them and selling the meat. I quit breed­ing them because the feed bill is too high." Investigators say inves­tors lost thousands ofdollars. Company sales agents offered a special breed ofrabbit, called a rex, at the price offour for SI ,800. Investors also received for the price a pen, a feeder and the verbal promise Conejo would purchase offspring at S2 a pound -twice the going rate. Most investors who signed up never saw Kloche or his agents again, said]ames Karpen, enforcement director of the Corporations and Securities Bureau of the Michigan Department of Commerce. Authorities in Ohio, Indiana and Wisconsin also are investigating Conejo. -AP 
A teen-aget jailed for failing to say "Yes, sir," to a judge was released yesterday, three days after a state appeals court ordered him freed. Michael Anthony Washington, 19, was ordered released Thursday by the Texas Court ofCriminal Appeals in Austin on a SIOO personal recognizance bond. But officials at the Harris County Jail refused to release Washington until they received writ­ten notice from the court in Austin. Sheriff Jack Heard said the notice arrived yesterday afternoon. State District Judge ordered Washing­ton to serve 30 days in jail March 30 after the defendant, who pleaded guilty to burglary, answered "Yeah" instead of"Yes, sir," to the judge's questions. --,-AP 
What ever happened to the Nuclear Freeze Referen­dum that Saint Mary's voted on during the February general elections? The students voiced their opinion on an issue by marking an "x" on a slip of paper. They passed the referendum for a unilateral freeze ofnuclear 
weapons. 

By passing the referendum, the students did the un­expected. They stepped out of the shadow of the Gold­en Dome and voted for a unilateral freeze, unlike Notre Dame. But why Saint Mary's students passed the referendum while Notre Dame students did not cannot be answered simply. Perhaps women have a traditional understanding of the situation and are not power­minded people seeking power for its own sake at the risk of the world's future. Perhaps Saint Mary's women realize that the useless power plays between the United States and the Soviet Union only serve to fuel aggression between the two nations. But after the referendum passed the concensus on campus seemed to be, "what's the use?" 
Saint  Mary's  students  
believe  the  United  States  
should  take  the  initiative  

and put a freeze on the nuclear arms build-up. But the U.S. government would never put itselfin such a vul­nerable position since it has 
always fought for peace by exerting its power. In effect then, all the students proved was that they are not in­fluenced by Notre Dame when deciding if the "x" goes by "yes" or "no" on the ballot -wrong. 

The students at the col­lege did much more. They moved out of the Dome's shadow and shed the light of their message that spread over Notre Dame, the nation and the world. The referendum was not merely an issue about which to vote and then cast aside. Now that the students have taken a stand they are also taking action. Letters will be sent to President Reagan and Prime Min­ister Andropov to inform them ofthe students' political stand. 
Realistically, the letters will not have a terrific im­pact. But asking for a bilateral freeze over a unilateral freeze is not making much of a statement because the possibility ofit becoming a reality is so slim. Still, we are allowing others to sign our death sentence ifwe do not make our views known. Saint Mary's students realize the danger ofapathy by leaving the decision to heads of states and other "experts". If we allow the volleying of political power between the United States and the Soviet Union to continue, the responsibility will still weigh on our shoulders. 
The arms build-up is a game for these two powerful 

Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Inside Monday 


nations and the country with the biggergun is supposed to win. But the nuclear arms issue is not a game. There will be no winners and the world has everthing to lose -our future is at stake. 
The students have made it known they do not want any part ofthis mindless game. The future ofour world does not lie with the "experts" and so the students do not want them to decide. And we cannot rely on the USSR to take the initiative and halt their build-up in the interest ofworld peace. 
Therefore, demanding a unilateral freeze is the an.swer. We have the power to influence our govern­ment by v01cmg our opinion. It is up to the United States to make the first step. As a leader in tech­nology, a freeze on the nuclear arms build-up would be a strong statement to all other nations of the world, especially the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union would then react to our in­itiative. 
An International Peace Day is designated as May 1 for Saint Mary's. In this way, students are converting their political statement into 

action. Saint Mary's women will show their dedication to world peace through a campus-wide Mass celebra­tion and other activities as a visible sign of their com­mittment. 
The referendum issue sparked casual conversation and heated debates campus-wide as students became involved in the political life which ordinarily seems far removed from campus life. What the impact of the stu­dents decision might have in halting the nuclear arms build-up can only be measured by the actions they take to influence other students and the governments ofthe world. The International Peace Day is the second step towards that goal. 
The Observeris always lookingfor new talent. If you are interested in newspaper writing or newspaper production, stop up at The Observer office on the 3rdfloor ofLaFortune. 
rlllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 


f-The_Qhs_erYer_ 
ND-SMCSTUDENTS 
SUMMER DISCOUNT GROUP 
Oesign Editor.......................J.P. Keyc,·A.A. Design Assistant.. . ................. Pete Tvpesetters .......................................... BWI> 
·rhc ghost Neu'S Editor...... . ....................... Diane Copv Editor.... ...................................... Kath Features Lt~l'Olll .. .................... Mary, Sarah /;'ditoriafs Lt~l'OUI... . ................ Lihhy . ljJOrts Copv Editor ............................ ~ike ND Duy Editor................................. ~ike B. 
Tvpists ..................... .  .............. lihhy  
Ad Oe.<ign .. .  ...................... ?  
Photographer .......... . .  Scott  

Gu.est Appearances ............. Robin Brown 
ar.d her tunc~. Sick Sandunista. Jeh-future hig time cartoonist. Colleen 'On her way' Q. Dennis Ryan-? Pete's Beast( Loose five more-plca.'c ). 
Jim's Maria and Planet Claire. Teresa and Andrea for Friday lunch. 
"Call me Ishmael." 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s pubttshed Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacatton pertods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnl Marys College. Subscnpttons '11ay be purchased for $30 per year i$15 per semester) by wrtttngTheOb­server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. ln­dtana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of.the Assoctated Press All reproductton rtghts are reserved 

RATES B & B Storage Self· Service 
1/2 mile south of Niles K-Mart . 3001 U.S. 31 ·east side of highway.
, "=·.................................................................................................... 


THE DEPARTMENT OF ART, ART HISTORY AND DESIGN
,. 
Degree programs: 

B.A. in Studio Art, Art His tory and Industrial Design 
B.F.A. in Sfudio Art and Industrial Design 
Elective Courses and Complete Programs in: Ceramics-Pottery and Ceramic Sculpture; Fibers-Weaving and Papermaking; Product Design and Advertising; Painting-Watercolor, Oil, etc.; Photography-Black and White and Color, ect.; Sculpture-Wood, Metal, etc.; Art History 
For more information about our degree programs or electives please contact the Department Office, 132 O'Shaughnessy or call239·7602. 
An Tostal Ice Pits?Perhaps. Today will be cloudy and very cool with high in the mid and upper 30s. Cloudy and cold at night. Low in the mid and upper 20s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow and cool. High in the low and mid 40s. -AP 

I•·' 
! 

The Observer Monday, April IS, 1983-page 3 



Architecture prof honored by AlA 
By WARREN BERRY designs encouraged postwar urban News Staff renewal in London as well as city planning in the Middle East. 
Patrick Horsbrugh, Notre Dame He served as deputy director of professor of architecture since the Hamilton-Wentworth Planning 1967, has been named to the Board of Ontario, Canada before American Institute of Architect's joining the faculties at the University College of Fellows, a lifetime honor of Nebraska (I960) and the Univer­awarded for important contribu­sity ofTexas ( 1965 ). tions to the architecture profession. At Notre Dame Horsbrugh es­
Horsbrugh has devoted time to tablished the graduate program in educational and design issues Environic Studies, and in I 970 concerning environmental condi­founded the Environic Foundation tions, energy, transportation, and so­International, a non-profit organiza­cial factors in urban and regional tion supporting innovative environ­planning, in addition to speaking and mental concepts including new consulting with experts worldwide transportation systems. His concern on environmental and urban plan-with environmental issues extends ning issues. to the protection and adaptation of 
Horsbrugh will speak in Sydney, historic buildings and landscape ar­Australia at the first international chitecture. conference on Energy Efficient Horsbrugh recently received a Buildings with Earth Sheltered commendation from Indiana Gover­Protection on the topic of the an­nor Robert Orr for his participation 
Sr. Maryjulien, C.S.C.,formerly a memberofthe 
cient and modern bdow-earth in the Educational Task Force of the 
Saint Mary's College communi~y, took the Michi· 
design he reviewed on a recent trip Indiana White River Park Commis­
gan Ci~y Boy's Choir to Notre Dame this weekend 
to China. Horsbrugh has served as a sion. He recommended the planning consultant in several reconstruction of a working water 
At Saint Mary's 

Middle Eastern and Far Eastern mill in the planned White River Park countries including Pakistan, Burma as part ofa museum on the influence and Saudi Arabia. ofwheat. 
Horsbrugh was graduated with As a fellow of the AIA. Horsbrugh 

Ex-UNofficial speaks on peace 
honors from the Architectural As-is entitled to use the initials FAIA af­By THERESA GUARINO regimes according to former United Historically, the U.S. has been sociation School of Architecture in ter his name. He will be inducted in­News Staff Nations Ambassador Donald viewed by other nations. especially London and was awarded the Ber­to the 60-year-old College on May McHenry. in the third world, as idealistic and 
nard Webb Fellowship at the 22 at the 1983 American Institute of The United States must be more McHenry, U.S. ambassador to the humanitarian, but this is changing. Academia Britannica in Rome to Architects national convention in open in peace negotiations to the U.N. during the Carter administra­"We've have a reservoir of good­study hill town planning in Italy. His New Orleans. ideas of communist and militant tion, was guest speaker for the Saint will because of the traditional view 
Mary's Business Associates' annual of the U.s._;;, McHenry said. "We also dinner last Friday. have been charged with the viola­
Louis MacKenzie, Jr. 
Taping a "Straight Talk" show for tion ofcivil rights. In·the eyes ofour Channel .H, McHenry said in regard government. any violation is over­to the Middle East, "The U.S. must shadowed by communism."


·Nn grad to head Angers program 
come to the realization that there McHenry noted. JeffChoppin work in Paris. He received his doc-sider the gesture of living in a dif-. 
won't be any permanent peace until McHenry was asked about his StaffReporter torate in 1977 from Cornell. ferent country as being 
the legitimate aspirations of all con­stand on the nuclear freeze-issue,"I have a responsibliity to Notre compensatory for taking easy 
cerned are observed. recently voted on at Notre DameA I 969 Notre Dame graduate has to maintain well-
Dame students' courses," he said. 
"We're restricting the aspirations and Saint Mary's. 
been selected to be Director of the being _ their physical, psychologi-MacKenzie emphasizes a balance of the Palestinians," McHenry ob­
Angers Foreign Studies Program for "Obviously the most desirable
cal and legal well-being. 1will have a between the "rigors" ofan academic served. "It is not a question of
next year. and he says he will try to counselor role," commented MacK-program and the "rigors" ofa foreign (option) is a mutual freeze and then 
recognizing the PLO because they
balance the academic and cultural to proceed with negotiations," he
enzie, who also said it will be his experience. "A year away from the are not a nation, but of course we
aspects ofthat program. commented. "But I don't have any
responsiblity to make sure that the academic current may be dan­should sit down and talk with them.
Louis MacKenzie, Jr., a I 969 problems with a unilateral freeze.
courses offered in Angers are up to gerous," MacKenzie noted. He high­We've pictured the PLO as all devils. 
Notre Dame graduate. has been serv­It's not that much ofa gamble; we're
Notre Dame standards. lights the distinction the French But with any organization, there are
ing in the Department of Romance "The SUNDEF (Stage Univer-make between "instruction' and strong, and hopefully it would 
devils and saints. It's a mistake to
Languages and Literature at Prin­induce the ~oviets to do the same."
sitaire de Notre Dame en France) "education." "Instruction" indicates label an organization by any one ofceton University. He received his a strong emphasis on classroom ac­
program is a very viable program," The U.N. does not play much of a
its components."
masters degree from Middlebury tivity while "education" centers
MacKenzie noted. "'but the relative role in the nuclear freeze decision,
The United States' attitude
College, Vermont, doing part of his success of a ( SCNDEF) program around learning about "life, living, according to McHenry.towards the Soviets has gone past
depends on its director ability to people. and morale." The year "We're basically another forum
the poim of concern to become an
abroad, he says, is more of a year of

keep students engaged in activities for the question," he said. 

education than instruction.

and functions. The program has a
Saint Mary's 
MacKenzie said that learning

tradition of success. I would like to insure the continuation of that French is a "self-motivating" ac­success." MacKenzie added. tivity. "One could get away without

library 

"I have the impression that tht~ learning much French," he com­program is loaded with great poten· mented.. The students should,

wins award 

tial for studenr profits. Living in a dif-however, recognize the dual impor­ferent culture is an opportunity for ranee oflanguage as having a value in 
By WARREN BERRY 

grmvth in a broadening sense,'' · itselfand as a mode ofcomunication. .Yews Staff he said. "I don't see most students
MacKenzie said. While recognizing the advantages of travel and ex-shirking from a challenge. Most The Saint Mary's Cushwa­
periencing the culture, MacKenzie good students would not want to Leighton Library is one of five 
stresses the academics of the have wasted a perfect opportunity libraries in the country to be 
program. "It would be a risk to con-to learn the language," MacKenzie honored with an Excellence for added. 
Library Architecture award in the I I th annual Library Buildings Award Program as announced by the 

Let's Give It A Try 

American Institute of Architects recently. 

susn1qht

The Institute's jury cited Cushwa­Leighton's seating in its decision. "With its natural emphasis on 
at 

seating, the Cushwa-Leighton Library has an excellent distribution ofindividual and group seatings that 

the yellow 
SusmaRJne

avoids uncomfortable. large mas­sings ofseats," the jurv commented. "The entry level is well designed with major public service," the jury added. The architect of the Cushwa-Leight<Jh Library is Evans Woolen of Indianapolis. He will be 
For Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy Cross 

honored by the Institute's pres­tigious College ofFellows on :vtay 22 
Every Tuesday, Th!lrsday, Friday, 

in :>Jew Orleans along with Notre 
and Saturday Evening 9 · 12pm

Dame professor Patrick Horsbrugh. (see story on page ) ) 
Free Deliivery · Every V2 hour

The Library Buildings Award Program is sponsored hy the AlA and 
5 Sub Minimum Order 

the American Library Association. Tht· awards will be presented June 
Drivers carry under $15.00 
2.., in Los Angeles. 

"obsession," according to McHenry. "The Soviets constitute a major :vtcHenry commented on the problem, but we shouldn't let our overall role of the U.N. in keeping worry cause us to take an opposite the peace. point of view on an issue just be­"With the U.N., you feel you've ac­cause the Soviets hold the other hieved in the sense that you are part view." of a building process. 
836 PHONE PORTAGEAVE. PIZZA 232 ·1883 
monbay Spec1at! 
16 1n p1zz.a With 1 Item 32ozpeps• 
rRee bel1V€RY $6.90 
NO COUPON NEEDED OFFER NOT GOOD WITH OTHER COUPONS 
The Observer Monday, April 18, 1983 -page 4 

the annual student show held by the Snite will continue through May I 5, displaying the Museum ofArt. The show opened yesterday and work ofseniors and master offine arts students. 
Says Kremlin ideologist 
Andropov faces party challenges 
MOSCOW (AP) -Five months af­ter taking over as Communist Party chief, Yuri Andropov is meeting stiff challenges from the Brezhnev politi­cal machine led by Kremlin ideologist Konstantin Chemenko, Soviet sources say. 
The latest and strongest signal of fighting within the ruling Politburo, the sources say, was the postpone­ment of a Central Committee plen­ary session scheduled for the last week of March. 
The strength of the Brezhnev machine in the party's upper ec­helons frustrated Andropov's plan to call the plenum and ram through a number of major personnel and policy changes, said the sources, who spoke on condition they not be named or otherwise identified. 
The informants say the plenum now won't be held until June, delay­ing changes Andropov hoped to make by at least two months. It remains to be seen if, during that period, he can muster the backing to restart the sh'.lkeup he began shortly after taking over following Leonid Brezhnev's death last November. 
Plenary sessions are never an­nounced in advance, making it im­possible to confirm officially that one either was planned for March or postponed. 
Andropov also was reported by other sources to have been hospitalized in mid-March for heart and kidney ailments, but he reap­peared in public March 25. 
Accdrding to Western diplomts, Andropov, 69, has shuffled procedures inside the decision­making bodies to short-circuit the 71-year-old Chemenko's phoenix­like political resurgence. 
' Many observers had expected that Chemenko, once considered a likely successor to Brezhnev, would be consigned to a background role after Andropov beat him in the con­test for power. 
But Andropov's moves have not been totally successful so far, as the Soviet sources claim the reported postponement of the pl_enum indi-cates. 


Andropov also has not been named president, a ceremonial post Brezhnev heid in addition to party general secretary. That could be a sign of disarray or simply Andropov's wish. 
Growing concern, especially among regional party bosses, about the heavy-handed manner 
Andropov was using in shaking things up has caused the old regulars to rally around Chernenko, the sources said. 
Since Andropov became party leader, he has created what obser­vers say is a closer link between the KGB, which he ran for 15 years. 

Scientists conduct research on sugar 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. (AP) -For those who grab a junk food snack for a quick jolt of energy, science has had news: sugar makes folks sleepy. 
Sugar is America's favorite food additive. People eat 128 pounds ofit a year. They have lots ofviews about how it affects their behavior, even though scientists generally have shunned the subject. 
But now psychiatrists, nutritionists and others have begun looking at how food influences the way people act. 
Aseries ofstudies being published in the Journal of Psychiatric Research provides some surprising clues about the effects of sugar. It seems to make children calm and grown-ups sleepy. And it may hinder concentration. 
The findings cast doubt on the claims of some natural food adv­ocates, who say ordinary sugar makes children hyperactive and prisoners aggressive. 

Milffi\Witiit:ru.1=F:0 cus·
~w 
The alleged ills of sweets have 

gained wide acceptance. In 1978, 
former San Francisco Supervisor 
Dan White invoked a "Twinkie 
defense" in his trial for the 
manslaughter of Mayor George 
Moscone and Supervisor Harvey 
Milk. He claimed that his mental 
capacity was diminished by an 
overdose of junk food. 
Some jails limit the amounts of 

sweets inmates can eat. 
"I think it's fair to say that the 

scientific community in general has 
not been convinced that either 
sugar causes hyperactivity or that 
diet can convincingly be used to 
control the behavior of prisoners," 
said Dr. Harris Lieberman of Massa­
chusetts ln5titute ofTechnology. 
Most of the studies being 

published in the psychiatric journal 
were given at a conference last 
November at MIT. Several of them 
looked at the effects of car­
bohydrates, which can be either 
sugar or starch. 
"A carbohydrate meal will, by causing insulin to be secreted, change the proportions of certain amino acids in the blood," said Richard Wurtman, who organized the meeting. "There's good prelimi­nary evidence that this will tend to make you sleepy, diminish your sen­sitivity to pain and very definitely suppress your desire for car­bohydrates." 
Sugar does not affect everyone the same way. Dr. Bonnie Spring, a Hac­vard psychiatrist, found that older people are more apt to notice its ef­fects. She compared the effects of a high-carbohydrate meal -a dish of sherbet -or a high-protein meal ­a plate oftur t key breast. 
Women said they felt sleepier af­ter the carbohydrate meal than after the protein. And men said they felt 
calmer after the sherbet. People over 40 complained that they felt more tension and anger af­ter the protein. When they had sher­bet, the older people had more trouble concentrating when asked to repeat words. "I studied a single, ordinary meal, and the fact that it could have effects ofthat magnitude is surprising," said Spring. Many people worry about the ef­fects ofsugar on youngsters. There is no doubt it can cause cavities, but Dr. Judith Rapoport, chiefofthe Sec­tion on Child Psychiatry at the Na­tional Institute of Mental Health, says there is no scientific evidence to show 'that it makes children hy­peractive. Scientists are beginning to under­stand how carbohydrates influence the way people act. It raises blood levels of an amino acid called tryp­tophan. That, in turn, is used to manufacture serotonin, a neurotransmitter that relays messages in the brain. Some scientists have indirectly studied the effects of sugar by watching the effects of extra doses of tryptophan. Dr. Michael Yogman of Children's Hospital Medical Cen­ter in Boston found that babies go to sleep faster when tryptophan and carbohydrates are added to their bottles. 
By Vietnamese 

Chinese respond to border attacks 
PEKING (AP)-Chinese artillery once." pounded Vietnamese border gun­Peking also accused Vietnam of ners along a second front yesterday, launching border attacks to divert the government announced. It attention from its battle against charged Vietnam had been continu­Khmer Rouge guerrillas on the ing cross-border shelling and Cambodia-Thailand border. warned Hanoi that "aggression The official Xinhua news agenc~ against China must be stopped at said the shelling yesterday was con­
ducted from China's Yunnan 


province and followed artillery bombardments launched Saturday on Vietnamese border posts from the neighhoring Guangxi province ofChina. 
"The shelling (yesterday) destrqyed the enemy's surface for­tifications," it said. "The Vietnamese position is in a mess." 
The weekend reports made no mention of Vietnamese casualties. 
There was no immediate com· ment from Vit:tnam nor was there in­dependent confirmation of the Chinese report. Vietnam, which has accused the Chines<; of tiring on Vietnamese border settlements and outposts in the past, said last week that Chinese troops crossed into Vietnamese territory and burned houses. 
Xinhua said Chinese troops opened a "tlerl·e" artillery attack Saturday in retaliation for repeated Vietnamese shooting that had killed at least I 5 Chinese soldiers and peasants. 
Yesterday, Xinhua said, "The Chinese frontier guards in Yunnan were (again) compelled to fire back at the Vietnamese troops. 
"Since the latter halfof March, the Vietnamese troops had repeatedly fired at Chinese border areas, killing Chinese border inhabitants working in the fields," it added. 
Xinhua said Vietnamese agents had sneaked into Chinese territory and set tire to more than l,500 acres of woods, bamboo groves and rub­ber trees. The agents also destroyed communications wires and houses of Chinese border inhabitants, it said. 
Western military observers predicted China would keep up the pressure on the Vietnamese until Hanoi pulls back troops battling Khmer Rouge guerrillas along the Thai-Cambodian border. 
Chinese forces crossed into Viet­nam for a month in 19"'9 in response to Vietnam's inva~ion of Cambodia in late 19""8, which toppled the Chinese-backed Khmer Rouge regime. Vietnamese forces crossed into Yunnan province in May 1981, and Chinese troops killed I00 of them. 
The People's Dail}' said Vietnam recently stepped up military provocations and incursions along the Chinese border in an "attempt to tie up China and prevent it from ~upporting the just struggle of the p t eople of Kampuchea (Cambodia) and Thailand." 
~--~~----~------­
-----~------­
The Observer Monday, April IS, 1983-page 5 

Starting offon the right foot. Quiet companionship. 
L'il Sibs, L'il Sisters join their their collegiat~ kin 
Future Demers and Belles enjoy weekend taste of college 
They descended upon the campuses this weekend wearing extra-small ND/SMC sweatshirts. Some carried highly prized care packages from home to give to their big sibs. Others simply carried high hopes for a fun weekend with a big brother or sister. The impetus for this "little people" immigration was the annual ND/SMC Little Sibs Weekend, an event planned ro provide potential Domers and SMCers with a taste of college life. Both younger and older sibs had a wide variety of activities such as movies, games, picnics and dances from which to choose. 
The reactions to the weekend were many and varied. Some little sibs had a terrific time, others were slightly disappointed in the weekend. One little brother, Lou Perry, 13, was among the sibs who enjoyed themselves. 
"Little Sibs Weekend is the only chance I'd ever get to watch three movies without getting in trouble for being lazy," commented Perry. Missy Glomb, 10, said she had 
a good time because" My sister lets me have pizza every meal." 
Debbie Hickey, 14, said her favorite activity was the sock hop on Friday night. "The only problem was that alot ofthe boys didn't know how to dance," she added. 
One of the less enthusiastic sibs was Ray McPartin, 
10. "I thought there would he more to do," said McPar­tin. 
Tommy Sduder, I6, agreed. "I wanted to come and meet lots of college girls, and when I heard that the parties wen: cancelled I was pret­ty bummed!" said Souder. 
Linda Mae. 17. didn't have any problem meeting guys in spite ofthe scarcity ofparties. "She went out on a date last night while I stayed home," commented her sister. Sophomore Mary Ellen Mae. 
Whether the weekend turned out as expected or not, all the sibs agr~ed that Little Sibs Weekend.was a great chance to get away from home and spend some time with a big brother or sister. It also was the perfect op­portunity to visit Saint :\1ary's and Notre Dame and see what college life is like. Patti Ryan, 6, summed it up by ~aying. "This weekend has been so much fun that I could live here all the time with my sister and never get sick ofit!" 

Moving in. 
Story by Beth Walsh Photos and page design by Scolt Bower 


Little sister. 




The Observer Monday, April 18, 1983 -page 6 


Associated Press 

A guard at Western Penitentiary stands outside Thursday morning in theprison, and discussions the prison in Pittsburgh Saturday afternoon. Two still are underway between negotiators and the inmates have been holding two hostages since inmates. See story below. 
Officials bargain in prison standoff 
PITTSBURGH ( AP) -Oftlcials and a pair of inmates h()lding two hostages in a prison basement have reduced and revamped the inmates' list of items for discussion as work continued toward a "surrender agreement" late yesterday, the fourth day of the standoff. 
"The list has been changed through negotiations to detlnite points," Kenneth Robinson, spokes­man for the state Corrections Department, said at an 8:30p.m. EST news briefing. 
"Most of the things that could be dealt with early, were," he said outside the State Correctional In­stitution at Pittsburgh. "It's a lot shorter than it was initially." 
"We aren't at the end. It's just trying to work out the details of the surrender agreement," Robinson told reporters earlier in the day during a brietlng outside the stone walls of the prison, where the stan­doffbegan with a bungled escape at­

tempt Thursday. Both were armedReverse discrimination case with handguns, prison officials said. 
The two hostages -civilian prison employee Kostas "Gus" Mast,ros, 51, and guard Daniel

Supreme Court hears arguments 
Kohut, 39 spoke to prison 

WASHINGTON (AP) The and 222 whites with more seniority -Must waste disposal considera­negotiators yesterday morning and Supreme Court, entering the home were laid off. White workers carried tions influence the licensing of said they were well, but tired, stretch of its public deliberations the dispute to the Supreme Court, every nuclear power plant? according to Robinson. this year, will hear arguments today charging "reverse discrimination." A lower court said the federal The specifics ofthe inmates' list of on a "reverse discrimination" case Among other thorny issues to be Nuclear Regulatory Commission "points for discussion," handed out growing out ofhard times. decided by the court: must always weigh such considera­Saturday, has not been made public. 
At issue is whether employers can -How far can states go in provid­tions, which could significantly The prison officials gave the preserve jobs for minority workers ing tax help for parents who send delay the nuclear industry's growth. inmates a written response to the by laying off whites with more their children to private schools? -May the government continue list, but would not reveal the con­seniority. The justices will study decisions to collect billions of dollars under · tents. 
The "affirmative action" dispute that upheld a Minnesota law allow­the 1980 windfall profits tax on oil? The institution's 1,300 other from Boston -closely watched by ing state income tax deductions for A lower court said the tax, which prisoners remained locked in their civil rights groups and organized tuition, textbooks and transporta­produced $26 billion in revenue as cells yesterday, where they have labor -may highlight a final two tion. The high court decision could of late 1982 and is expected to yield been kept without a break since weeks of arguments in cases to be directly affect the Reagan ad­more than $40 billion more over the Thursday. They were calm despite decided byJuly. ministration's hopes to provide next t1ve years, is unconstitutional. the lockdown. 
The case arose when city officials federal tuition tax credits. in 1981 laid off more ·than 400 -How should federal appeals police officers and firefighters. Had courts handle emergency reque1sts 
Professor stresses 
the layoffs been based on seniority, from death row inmates seeking last­the percentage of blacks and minute postponements of execu­Hispanics among Boston police tions? would have dropped from 11.7 per­The decision in a case from Texas 
social responsibility 
cent to 6.2 percent. Minority will go a long way in determining By AMY STEPHAN that Catholic colleges have ex­
firefighters would have dipped from how soon the nation's 1,500 con­
News Staff perienced a decline in their sense of 
14.7 percent to 9.1 percent. demned murderers may die. 
public responsibility, as well as a 

Both departments have been un­-Did federal safety regulators 
David O'Brien says that we should decline in general education and der court orders to increase the exceed their authority when they be proud of the work done in start­creative dealing with issues. 
number ofblacks and Hispanics who lifted requirements that all new 
ing the Center for Social Concerns,
work for them. automobiles sold in the United O'Brien noted that many univer­
although he adds that he does nm
Lower courts said that despite the States someday be equipped with air sities have instigated volunteer an,., 
want to settle for concern.

layoffs, the percentage of minorities bags or automatic seat belts? social programs (such as the Centt 
"Caring is not enough," said
within the departments could not A lower court said yes, and for Social Concerns) and stated th;
O'Brien, a history professor at Holy
decrease. That meant that the jobs of imposed a September 1983 deadline Notre Dame is. at the forefront of 
Cross College, in his talk which
222 minority members were spared for passive restraints. these efforts. He said that these 
opened the symposium on social volunteer programs are "marginal to justice last Friday. O'Brien spoke on academic life," however, and are not the social responsibility of higher integral elements of the overall Catholic education.
Notre Dame Ave. Apts. 
academic programs. · 

"Does the challenge of Catholic education extend beyond the theol­
Another problem O'Brien sees in ogy department?" asked 'O'Brien, 
these programs is their explicit

has apts. for the summer ;very special 
Christian element. O'Brien said that this element helps in the develop­stating that the relationship be­tween Christianity and education has personal, cultural, political and 

reduced rates 
ment of critical sense and prompts reflection on society and morals.

economic dimensions as well. "We need education appropriate to the 
CALL 234 · 6647 
Nevertheless, it also causes tension lives we wish to lead," he added. 
in some students and is not the lan­Since his graduation from Notre 
guage of the overall academic com­munity; it does not move us towardsDame in 1960, O'Brien has noted changes in public attitudes and in 

Apts. still available for next school 
a new social order. 

Catholic understanding affecting 
O'Brien warned that if Catholic Catholic higher education. He said 
universities are isolated from the mainstream of Catholic life, gaps be­

RECENT WORK BY 
tween rhetoric and serious study

Mr. Goodbar 
could develop. "Our mission is not to judge how bad the world is ...we
clue 

are called to enter more fully into This the first clue in the 
EILEEN O'MEARA 
the life ofour times," said O'Brien.

PHOTOGRAPHS 
"Looking For Mr. Goodbar" 
Christian responsibility for the 
contest. Clues will appear 
world is not fully covered by volun­

CARL SEITZINGER 
each day this week. Use them 
teer service once a week, O'Brien

POTTERY 
to determine where a Mr. 
said. "We each have talents that we 
Goodbar wrapper is hidden 
are called on to use for the service of 
on campus. 
Christ and the world," he said. 
O'Brien noted that there is a need
"To find Mr. Goodbar vou must search near andfar. c"a to 

ISIS GALLERY 
to assist students in making deci­

3RD FLOOR WEST 
sions related to faith and values. He
the place where man and 
said that Catholic universities
woman meet."

ART BUILDING 
should give students an opportunity 
early in their education to examine
Call Rosemary Buckle at

Opening Reception: Tomorrow at 7PM 
disciplines in in a social context.
283-6858 with guesses. 
About 60 inmates in one section of the l.!rge prison along the Ohio River shouted and banged on cell doors hrietly Friday to protest being denied commissary items such as cigarettes, officials said. 
On Saturday, .\1astros passed out the inmates' four-page list in return for sandwiches. Until then, prison of­ficials had repeatedly refused re­quests.for food. 
Negotiators seeking proofthat the hostages were healthy traded four more sandwiches later Saturday for a brieflook at Mastros through a door, and again yesterday. 
The basement room, located in the section of the prison where inmates are processed for transfers, has received no newspapers and has no television or radio. The inmates 
have refused  medicine for  Kohut.  
who  ~t:ffers  from  high  blood  
pressure.  

Henkel and Coviello seized the hostages in the Western Diagnostic and Classification Center, a section ofthe prison, before they were to be strip-searched for court ap­pearances Thursday morning. 
... Address 
cimtinuedfrom page 1 
newspaper column. He sold the mansion of the former archbishop and moved into a simply furnished three-room apartment. 
Elected president of the NCCB in 1974, Bernardin opposed the or­dination of women, abortion and capital punishment, but supported the rights of women. He was con­sidered a liberal concerning struc­tural reforms of the Church. 
After leaving the presidency, Bernardin became chairman of the bishops' committee on war and peace in 1977, a position he still holds. 
Recent commencement speakers at Notre Dame include Prime Minis­ter Pierre Elliott Tmdeau of <;:anada ( 1982 ), President Ronald Reagan ( 1981) and former Presidentjimmy Carter ( 1977). 
. .. McManus 
continuedfrom page 1 
and scripture scholars. 
"We felt that it was important to show reasonable familiarity with the very complex matters with which we were dealing," Warner said. 
The earlier versions of the letter were circulated for responses, many of which were critical of the ap­proach taken on the subject of deterrence, Warner said. 
In response to the criticism, the new letter states a "conditional ac­ceptance" of deterrence where it had before condemned such a policy. Critics of the earlier drafts called to the bishops' attention a 
1982 address by PopeJohn Paul II in which he said that deterrence may be considered morally acceptable in some cases. 
The latest draft takes the pope's statement into account, while proposing the condition that there be "progressive moves toward arms control. It also takes into account the views of bishops who oppose deterrence as inadequate, Warner. 
The letter also addresses the role of the scriptures and suggests the practice of prayer and fasting for peace among the faithful. 
"I think that this thing has gotten so far out of hand ...that even the best language the bishops put to­gether will not do the trick," McManus said. "We are so far gone that only divine intervention will save us." 


---~­
Monday, April IS, 1983-page 7
Editorials 
Ending a Chicago tradition 
Harold Washington's chances were not hurt by the defection of several members of the former Chicago machine. The machine is in ruins; it was irreparably damaged by the 
election of]ane Byrne in 1979 and will never run again. 
Tom Mowle 
Monday Analysis 
He was not hurt because most people who voted for Republican Bernard Epton would have voted for him even if their alderman, precinct captain, and street cleaner had told them to vote for Washington. 
These white ethnics were terrified because Jesse Jackson led a baptist-style revival in Washington headquarters the night of the primary. Because ofWashington's slogans and association with Jackson, they saw him as a black militant determined to compensate for years of black suffering under white mayors by extracting the same suffering from the white working-class. 
In most years the Democratic primary is equivalent to the mayoral election. In the primary, voters select the candidate they know will win in April, so they pay careful at­tention to the quality of the people who are running. But in the general election, the vast majority of Chicagoans simply vote straight Democratic. regardless of who the opponent is. 
If Washington had been white, and had he won the nomination -not a likely prospect -he would have easily been elected, in spite of his record. Voters would have decided that his crimes were in the past and he'd paid for them and he'd learned his lesson and he deserves another chance. 
But in this election, people who had voted Democratic all their lives looked at the can­didates and said they wanted a Republican mayor this year. It may seem good that, for whatever reason, voters are looking at the records of the candidates. But it is the root cause that is wrong: these people only looked at the records because Harold Washington is black. 
No one could come out and say they were racist and voting for Epton because he was white. They compared the records ofthe two to justify their actions, but the essence of the election on both sides was race. 
While Epton himselfis probably not a racist, 
' 

he allowed his managers to run a campaign filled with racial innuendoes, much of it very unsubtle: "Vote Republican -Before It's Too Late!" Washington on his part need not have made his allegations that Epton was a racist, because he was assured the black vote anyway. He only alienated many whites by implying that anyone who supported Epton was a racist as well. 
The injection of national figures into Wash­ington's campaign further alienated many Chicagoans who reject the idea that a Min­nesotan or a Californian understands the problems that Chicago faces. These celebrities only wanted to get support for their presidential campaign next year, and the people ofChicago know it. 
Washington promised to reform Chicago politics; the courts may require him to do so in any case. Because he has a very strong power base, and very few debts to Chicago politicians, he will not need to fall back on the machine for survival. But his support is not strong enough for him to form his own machine, were he inclined to do so. Washing­ton will keep his promises of reform. 
Michael Bilandic's defeat in 1979 sealed the 
fate of the Democratic machine by pr<;>ving 
that it cannot elect its own candidates no mat­ter who the people want. Byrne tried to take over the machine, but luke-warm support for Teddy Kennedy in 1980, despite her strong backing, and the defeat of Bernard Carey by Richie Daley in the State's Attorney race proves that she failed. 
The machine's fractured support for the party's nominated candidate shows that it no longer works as a single unit. The voters con­tinued their trend of ignoring the advice of their alderman and voting the way they pleased. What the party officials had to say about the· candidates was irrelevant to the results ofthe election. 
The only hope for the machine is that Wash­ington will prove to be a very incompetent mayor, allowing Richie Daley to use his posi­tion to attack the mayor and win his office in 1987. He could then try to restore the machine, although he could never rebuild it to one his father would recognize. 
But Washington should prove competent 
enough to allay the fears of the whites, allow­
ing his re-election, and consigning the 
Chicago machine to the scrap heap forever. 
After twelve years without a powerful 
machine, Chicagoans will be reluctant to 
eliminate the reforms Washington plans to 
implement. 

Power to decide right from wrong 
Recently Dean of Students James Roemer allowed a student who had behaved in an im­proper manner to complete his education at Notre Dame. I need not repeat what the stu­dent did; he admitted his mistake, and that is enough for me. 
AbuidAmaro 
Guest Columnist 
Some people praised Roemer for his deci­sion and I also feel he made the correct deci­sion. In the past, he has shown that he can make similar sensitive and intelligent deci­sions. 
But what I strongly object to is his power to expel this student, a student engaged in a private activity over a 1,000 miles from the University. 
To put the problem in perspect1ve, one might examine the reaction of Marquette ad­ministrators to their students who par­ticipated in the same activities: none. No one has heard of anything concerning the dis­ciplining of Marquette students involved at The Button. 
Far be it for me to suggest that Marquette University does not care about the morality of its students. This Catholic institution is as respected (if not more) as our University in guiding the behavior of its students. Why didn't Marquette follow the great route of morality that our University did? Maybe be­cause they believe that it is none of their busi­ness to deal with the private life of an individual, even when his behavior is unbecoming. And I think that they are right. 
There should be no one anywhere telling people_ how they are supposed to behave un­less that person is the father and-or mother of that person. Even then the parent's role is specifically advisory. Parents should not simp­ly tell their children to do something simply because they are their children, especially when those offspring are old enough to make their own decisions. 

The student in this case is a senior. He is old enough to make those decisions, right or wrong. Everybody should have the power to do whatever he wants as long as he does not injure anyone. Ifanyone has a moral hangup, that is his prerogative. Is it logical to believe that if our moral sensibilities are offended we can punish that person who made an in­dividual moral decision? The Moral Majority, and the Ayatollah Khomeni think so. 
Monty Python'sMeaning ofLife presents a satirical piece in which a troupe of talented comedians poke fun at Catholic inhibitions concerning birth control. Does this mean that this movie will not be shown in the Engineer­ing Auditorium? 
In the Realm of the "senses, an X-rated 
movie, has been called a masterpiece by people like Vincent Canby. Does this mean that if I am seen leaving a theater where it was shown I could be liable for disciplinary ac­tion? 
I get nervous anytime someone has such a power to judge my individual decisions. I am reasonable enough to know what is good for me. I do not need any form ofin loco parentis to tell me what society accepts. 
Do we want someone to have the power to tell us what is good or bad concerning our be­havior, especially when this behavior in no way concerns itself with the University? I don't think that we do. And as far as I am con­cerned, the student at The Button need not excus{! himself to me. 
Abuid Amaro is a junior Arts and Letters student from Guayamtl, Puerto Rico. In tid· dition to writing guest editorials, be is also a staffreporterfor The Observer. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
Vigilante mentality leads to misguided theology 
DearEditor: 
Iwelcome Freshman Michael D. Quinlan's valiant effort to refute my critique of Prof. Charles Rice's benighted understanding of authority in the Church, but I reject asutter­~Y false and unworthy his insinuation that I have "denied the teaching authority of the Church." The issue is how "authority" should be understood theologically; my on­ly "interest" has been to serve the truthful discourse of the University community by correcting distortion with informed com­ment. In all candor, I regard the fixation upon a Marine Corps model ofauthority as a distraction from the point of Christian obedience commanded by the Lord Jesus: "You therefore must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect" (Matthew 5:-18 ). 
Surely there is cutting irony in that those who so insistently (and lengthily) pretend to represent the official Magisterium dabble so prejudicially in its teaching texts. Vatican 
ll's Dogmatic Constitution on the Church (No. 30) affirms decisively that the Church is the whole People of God; inded "all the faithful" are by baptism "make one body with Christ" and are even "made sharers in the priestly, prophetic, and kingly functions of Christ." It is to this new and entire mes­sianic People that God has promised the relentlessly active presence of the Spirit of the Christ; it is to this whole eucharistic communi~y that the empowering authority of God has been given. But unity in com­munion does not entail uniformity of wit­ness; as the Constitution on the Church puts it, "Iftherefore everyone in the Church does not proceed by the same pal:h, nevertheless all are called to sanctity and have received an equal privilege offaith through the justice of God ... In their diversity all bear witness to the works gathers the children of (lod in­to one, because 'all these things are the work of one and the same Spirit"' ( I Cor. 12:I I ). · Mr. Quinlan's notion that the Holy Spirit 

reposes solely in office-holders while 
remaining ineffectual among the laity is thus 
incoherent and contradicted by our ex­
perience of holy people. In the words of 
Pope John Paul II, "It is one and the same Spirit of truth who directs the hearts of the faithful and who guarantees the magisterium of the pastors ofthe tlock." 
Sad to say, currently there is abroad in the University a "vigilante mentality" among some misguided students who stand most to gain from the retlective discipline ofcourse work in Theology, but who seem intent upon harassing faculty of the department over confused statements of "doctrinal or­thodoxy" every one of which requires exacting study for educated appreciation. This is a pernicious and coercive develop­ment which undermines the unity of this community. I call upon the administration of the l:niversity to exercise public leadership over this matter. Let such self-appointed "arbiters" display docility to the teaching of 
John Paul II regarding such conduct: "A Catholic university or college must make a specific contribution to the Church and to society through high-quality scientific research, in-depth study of problems, and a just sense of history, together with the con­cern to show the full meaning of the human person regenerated in Christ ... No univer­sity can deserve the rightful esteem of the world of learning unless it applies the hig­hest standards of scientific research, con­stantly updating its methods and working instruments, and unless it excels in serious­ness and therefore in freedom of investiga­tion." Mr. Quinlan would do better to talk a course in the study ofscripture than to write letters to The Observer, for then he might realize the shabbiness of misrepresenting others' arguments and then violating the in­tegrity ofscriptural texts to support his own 
budding polemic. 
Philip Foubert 

:~~r====~=== 
Box Q, .\"utre Dame,/.\' 465'5ti 
Tbe Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorial!. represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219)239-5303 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief. ..........................David Dziedzic Saint Mary's Editor...............Anne Monastyrski Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi Executive Editor.............................. Paul McGinn .FeaturesEditor........... : ....... , ........ Sarah Hamilton NewsEditor.............................. Bob Vonderheide Production/Grapbics.......... .)oseph Musumeci News Editor...............,..................Mark Worscheh Photo Edttor....................................... Scott Bower 
Department Managers 
Business Manager ...... .................Daniel O'Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Controller ...................... .....................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 

...................................~--------~----------~------------------------------------------------~--~---.r-~-----------~------~ 
--.S,H0 W ( (~iiiiiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMoiinctiiay,iiApiiiirniitsii,1iii9sii3iipiiiage•s• 

mORNING'S makes a gteat evening 
Joe musumeci 
theQtte review 


Famous last wotds 
W
ell, since there's no Observer on May 2, I guess this will be my last column of the year. I know this sad-but-true fact will bring a flood oftears from everyone's eyes. Okay, just mine. 
The school year is on its final stretch, and I'm still trying to figure 
out what all the little numbers mean in Finance. 
It'sgetting late, and I'm starting to realize that I will soon be doing many routine activities for the last time. I guess I'm sentimental, but I watch for these things. 
For instance, that last trip to the Oak Room. I figure that should be around the eighth or ninth ofMay, depending on how late in the year the Oak Room remains open. It will require a tremendous amount of selfcontrol to keep myselffrom breakingdown as I sink my fangs in­to the my last Oakburger. 
mat< Ramitez 
feQtutes 

Then there's the last game on the Missile Command machine. It used to inhabit the basement ofour dorm, but was taken away one sunny day and moved to Lafortune. Many a quarter ofmine has been plugged into that machine. Icertainly will miss blasting those enemy planes to bits as they fly across the screen, bombing my cities and missile bases. 
And which will be the last class that I blow offi It won't be my English class because that's my favorite one. And it won't be Finance because I have to get a clue in that class. Reliable sources say the smart bet is on Informal Logic. 
I look forward to the last meal in the dining hall. I suppose they have done a better job this year, but l hope we've seen the last of their veal. 
The all-nighter count for my sophomore year is up to thirteen. I have a feeling that my last one will be on the night ofMay 8, the night before my Finance exam. 
In the tradition ofyear-ending extravaganzas, lam proud to present for public viewing the award-winning "Quotes of the Day" for the 1982-83 academic year. These are quotes which l have heard throughout the year which titillated my funny bone and prompted me to scrawl them down on a long sheet ofpaper which adorns the wall space above my desk. 
First, in the Declaration of Personal Skill category, my interhall­football-playing friend joe has the winner with, "I'm getting pretty ' ! good at spitting out of my helmet." Runner-up in this category goes
, 
to his roommateJohn, who on the night ofNovember 29, screamed,I ''I'm talking like a steak!" 
I Then there's the Historical Speculation category. There was only
, 
one nominee for this award, and it was easily the winner. On the eve­ning ofjanuary 23, Casey O'Connor speculated, "Can you imagine how the Greeks must have suffered in the Olympics? Running around without any pants on?" 
The Statement of Personal Opinion had its share of nominees. It was the statement of March 6 by a friend named Beth that came out the winner: "l hate Ziggy. He's just a fat, ugly little ball with a shirt on." Runner-up in this category went to afreshman named Phil, who on December 3 told someone, "You are what you eat, (expletive)." 
The Wishful Thinking Award goes this year to a junior named.John who, after a date on December 4, informed someone of what he thought the girl's opinion of him was: "By the next date, I could become a 10 in her eyes." 
In the Variation ofa Well-Known Quote category, a sophomore named Tony had the winning quote with,"! came, l saw, l sucked face." Runner-up here goes to Dave, also known as "The Voice," who asked the winner of this category. one night, "It's twelve o'clock, Tony. Do you know where your mother is?" 
The Blow-Off Award took a while to choose, but a decision was finally reached. My roommate Greg came away with this one for his 
. I ' quote on September 20, stating a philosophy he still employs: "l 
! don't want to be famous. I just want to. go to sleep." Tom Hardart I 
claims second place in this category with his April 6 statement: "I'm not lazy. l just slept all day." 
The Philosophical Question Award was perhaps the most difficult w choose a wfnner for. Third place went to James Anderson for his question on September 18: "Do you think trees scream when you saw them down?" Second-place goes to my roommate again for his thought ofjanuary 27: "Wouldn't it be great to get into heaven and give God a high-five?" And finally, the winner, byJames Anderson on the morning ofSeptember 8: "l wonder how tall God is?" 
The Most Clueless Award goes to an unidentified roommate who on january 22, wondered, "Does the Wall StreetJournal have a sportssection?" This quote narrowly edged another whose source is also unknown: "Do you have to go through Africa to get to Italy?" 
And finally, the Hard-to-Categorize Award goes to a resident of Lyons, who, when asked which was better, sex or ice cream, answered, "I have yet to experience all types ofice cream." 
I guess that is the last award which will be presented in my last column which Iwrite as I sit down at the last terminal on the right for the last time this year. 
The year is almost over, and I hope Ican figure out Finance before too long. Anybody want to share that last Oakburger with me? 
W
ell, they're at it again. The 
South Bend Civic Theater's 

Firehouse Theater is bringinganoth­
er show to the stage of the old 

firehouse at 70 l Portage Ave. Mor­
ning's atSeven by Paul Osborn is a 
splendid piece to fill the small stage 
ofthe renovated building, and the 
company does a very creditable job 
with it. 

The story reminded me from the start ofArsenic and Old Lace and several similar scripts; the major characters are a set ofinterrelated cousins, brothers, sisters, aunts and uncles who inhabit or visit a pair of houses, the back porches ofwhich form the set for the production. Two sisters, Cora and Aaronetta, live in one house with Thor (Theodore), Cora's husband, next door to Ida, an­other sister, who lives with her hus­band, Carl. They are visited by Esther, the other sister, and her hus­band David; meanwhile, Ida and Carl are playing host to their son, Homer, and his fiance of(get this) seven years, Myrtle. The plot unfolds in a generally hilarious sequence of twists and surprises which lend a great deal of in~ight to the relation­ships offamilies and people in 
general. 

It seems that Homer and Myrtle have been sweet on each other for upwards of twelve vars, and have been up to a little more than the various aunts and uncles and parents suspect; how we find this out is one ofthe most hilarious moments ofthe show -I won't spoil it. At any rate, without going into much ofthe plot, all turns out well in the end, and the various characters all get more or less what they want. 
The performance was very enjoyable and generally competent. Terry Ryan was very impressive as Thor Swanson, a stolid type who plays the foil for the lunacy of the other family members. His man­nerisms were sometimes comical in nature but never streotyped, and his stag presence was felt throughout the small room. In general, all the ac­ting was well thought out and directed. Two exceptions tended to throw a jarring note into the eve­ning; Mark Allen Carter as Homer Bolton, the son, and)udy Hess as Myrtle Brown, his fiance, were os­tensibly supposed to be 40 and 38 • respectively. Their ages were men­tioned several times in the play, and while their characterizations were engaging, they both came off as being in their mid 20's, and this was diconcerting. 
It never ceases to amaze me what the Firehouse company manages to do in the minute stage space available. and the set for this produc­tion is no exception. The backs of the two houses are presented on the stage, complete with screen doors and hanging plants, lined with box shrubs; the whole thing looks a little like a set forMayberry, R.F.D. in min­iature. The only annoying thing about the set is that, in fact, it's a little too neat. I first thought that it was thejronts oftwo houses until a note in the program set me straight. 
This is the second production by the Firehouse group that I have seen, and several points have made a strong impression on me. The in­timacy of the small room that serves as the actual theatre is still refresh­ing, as compared to the mammoth halls of Washington and Moreau. I didn't notice the quaint ceiling fan on my last visit, but this time its in­fluence was obvious and welcome. Out in the lobby, which could com­fortably seat a half dozen sardines, is a plaque commending the group for "the best use ofa renovated build­ing" or something like that. The only dissappointing thing about the building is that in the course ofan evening, one gets to see very little of it. The theatre is definitely worth going to see, and the show that is there now is a great evening. For ticket information call 233-0683; the show will be running again this Thursdav, Fridav and Saturdav. 


 
 
The Observer Featur·es Section  Monday, April 18, 1983 ­page 9  
·Notre Dame, Bimini This is getting ridiculous. It didn't bother me when it snowed on Easter. But come on. This is the middle ofApril. And it's snowing. I think it's time the University did somethingabout the climate situa­tion to which the students are subjected. The first thought that comes to mind is changing the school year. Everybody knows that Notre Dame is not a part ofthe real world, so why should we act like we are? Why not start the school year in April? That way, we could all be someplace else for the worst three months of the year -January, February and March. There would also be the added plus ofcoming home at Christmas and not having to worry about finishing up an academic year after all the turkey and candied yams are gone. The only problem this raises is "What can we do for vacation?" I don't imagine many people relish the idea of trying to find a job for Joe musumeci looking in three months in the winter. And what fun would the debauchery of Ft. Lauderdale, etc. be if half the rest ofthe country were aiready staying there for the season? Another solution could be to change the thrust ofthe acceptance quotas for the University. It could stipulated that a main criterion for acceptance as a freshman would be to have lived at least four years in either the tundra, a tropical rain forest, or Passaic, NewJersey. (A combination ofall of the above would qualify one for a full scholar­ship.)The problems inherent in this idea are obvious, and anyway, it wouldn't do anything for those who are already ensconced here. But 1 think 1 may have thought of the perfect idea for solving the weather crisis of Notre Dame. It's time to move the University. The logistics ofsuch an operation are. admittedly, monstrous. One would not want to leave behind such architectural masterpieces as Sacred Heart, the Administration Building, or Washington Hall. But there are certainly buildings such as The Memorial Library and the Pasquerillas which could be left behind to serve as low-rent housing for the cockroaches who will be displaced by the remo\'al of Pangborn and Fisher. How to move the buildings is not a worry; doubtless it will be handled by the same people who are "on the verge ofa breakthrough" in heam weapons. The key question that must be confronted when considering such a move is where to put the place once it is mobile.  

The Ob~cner/ScOII Bower 

And I have the an~-wer. Let's move the Uni-versity to Bimini. Where? 
Where? 

Nobody knows where Bimini is. Notre Dame students, ofcourse, are used to this, having constantly fielded questions on the location oftheir beloved institution. "South Bend. You know, Indiana' No, it's not in India ..."Bimini, for the record, is one ofthe northernmost is­
. lands ofthe Bahamas. It is, as far as I can see, the perfect location for a small University that no longer desires to be Midwestern. The island is sparsely populated. with plenty ofroom for building and expan­sion. The main thrust ofindustry is breadmaking, which thrives alongside a rapidly growing monopoly on harvesting floating bales of marijuana. Obviously there would be plenty ofcheap (and very happy) labor available for traditional University positions such as leaf-raker and sidewalk demoliton-derbyist -usually filled hy the same sort offolks. The neat part is that there are no leaves in Bimini, so the help would not need to waste nearly as much time looking like they were working; they could just come in each week, collect their checks and go back to being lazy in the privacy of their own homes. 
Alocation in Bimini would do a great deal to alleviate the drinking problem so consistently harped on here. Acase of Heineken costs S 18 in the islands. So does a case of Bud. Anyway, one bout with the local hooch would cure any Domer ofa cravingfor a quarters game. 
But most importantly, there is Sun. The sun burns with a ferocity in the Bahamas that most of u~ can not even imagine. Burns are instant; serious tans take less than a week with little effort. The water and the sky are both of a hue that reminds me ofwhat my eyes should have looked like. The water is al­ways warm (scratch S 10 million for a new swimming pool) and the air is clean (not an automobile plant within six hundred miles ).The only problem with moving to Bimini would be when to have vaca­tions. Ofcourse, there's always the monsoon season ... 
byT.dOz~ 
Qnd

smetd 
(in history) Btuce QQkleQf 
Sports=l=~=r="=·e:;~~.=s===~===========M=o=nd=a=y,=Ap=r=il=18=,=19=8=3=p=ag=e=10 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
South Carolinareducedthe ranks ofthe nation's independent basketball schools by one last weekend as the Gamecocks athletic department decided to join the Metro Con­ference. South Carolina, which, like Notre Dame, had participated in the National Invitational Tournament rather than the NCAA tourney last season, said that the snub had nothing to do with the decision. ­
AP 

Joe Wolf, a 6-10 high school center from Kohler, Wis., decided to attend the University of North Carolina Saturday, it was announced. Marquette University was also in the running for Wolfs services. Wolfs announcement was good news for Digger Phelps, who still retains hope of getting another top big man, 6-10 David Popson. Popson, whose choice is between the Tar Heels and the Irish, will announce his choice Wednesday at Bishop O'Reilly High School in Scranton, Pa. -The Observer 
Clem Crowe, a member of the "Seven Mules" that blocked for the famed Four Horsemen, died Thursday. Crowe was also the head coach of the basketball Irish in the I944-4S season. Crowe 80 was the oldest ofseven brothers who were athletes at the 
Univer~ity: -The Observer ' 
The Notre Dame golf team participated in the Kepler Invitational in Columbus, Ohio, this weekend, and weren't in very good position as it entered the tournament's final day yester­day. Noel O'Sullivan's Irish were tied for 19th place in the 23-team tournament as Dave Moorman's two-day IS9 led NO. Other Irish golfers' markes were John O'Donovan ( 160), Frank Leyes ( 166), Craig Peters( 168), Dave Pangraze ( 166)and S T tony Ferlmann ( 183). The host Ohio State Buckeyes held a 26-shot edge over second-place Indiana. -Tbe Observer 
John Paxson was awarded a 2,ooo post­
graduate grant from the NCAA last week. Paxson adds this scholar­athlete award to his many other accolades ofthis past season. Sharing the fellowship with Paxson is John Pinone of Villanova. Paxson scored 12 points in this weekend's Aloha Classic for the Midwest team. -Tbe Observer 
Marathon today 

Over 6,000 converge on Boston 
BOSTON (AP)-Boston's hotels were packed yesterday as thousands ofrunners and spectatorsconverged on the city for the 87th Boston Marathon on what promised to be a chilly and cloudy day today. 
Greg Meyer and four-time cham­pion Bill Rodgers are favored in the prestigiou t s 26-mile, 38S-yard race, which has attracted 6,664 entries, including about 700 women. 
"Every runner wants to say they've run Boston at least once," said Fred Lebow, director of the New York City Marathon. "It's like the Moslems must go off to Mecca once in their life. So must runners go off to Boston, and it will always be that way." 
Rodgers, at age 3S the Arnold Pal­mer of road racing, was suffering from a cold and expected to decide late Sunday or early Monday whether to run. 
Crowds flanking the course will be boosted by the closing of banks, school and courts for Patriot's Day, a. state holiday honoring the colonists who helped cut the ties to Britain 207 years ago. 
The weather was cooperating as well, with 40 to SO degree tem­peratures and some tail wind ex­pected. 
The Boston Convention and Tourism Bureau reported that hotels were fully occupied and some visitors had to stay in the suburbs. 
This year's event is the qualifier for the United States team in the World Track and Field Champion­ships at Helsinki, Finland, August 7­14. 

But with marathons in Rotterdam April 9, London April 17 and Rome April 24, many ofthe best foreigners will skip Boston. So will Alberto Salazar, the defending champion from Eugene, Ore., who is running at Rotterdam. 
In the women's col1)petition, New Zealand's Allison Roe, who holds the women's world record of2:2S:28, is entered but not considered the favorite. She was the first woman finisher in the 1981 Boston Marat­hon and set her record in the New York City Marathon later that year, but she has been slowed by Achilles' tendon and knee injuries in 1982 and hasn't run a marathon in more than a year. 
Picked to win Monday is Joan Benoit, a 2S-year-old native of Portland, Maine. 
Would-be contestants have to qualify to take part in the Boston Marathon. Men under 40 must have run a marathon in 2 hours, SO minutes and men over 40 must have run one in 3 hours, 10 minutes. Women must have run a marathon in 3 hours, 20 minutes. 
W aitz tops women's marathon record 
LONDON (AP) -Grete Waitz, Norway's 29-year-old long distance specialist, fought off two nagging in­juries yesterday to equal the world's best marathon time for women. 
She completed the 26 miles and 38S yards of the London Marathon in 2 hours, 2S minutes, 29 seconds, equaling the record taken from her by Allison Roe of New Zealand two years ago in the New York Marathon. 
But it was a bittersweet victory for the Norwegian, running in her first marathon outside the United States. 
Desperate to regain her world best crown, Waitz -who said she plans to retire after the inaugural world track and field championships in Helsinki, Finland, in August -at first was timed at 2:2S:28, one second inside Roe's record time. 
She threw up her arms in triumph and told a news conference later, "I don't usually run for records, but this time I had to. I had some problems during the race with both 
my knee and my thigh muscles but I knew near the finish that ifI ran a fast last kilometer, I would have a good chance of breaking the record." 
Just over an hour later, however, race officials announced that the time had been changed to 2:2S.29. 
Race press officer Alan Pascoe, a former European and Common­wealth hurdles champion, said, "We all believed she had broken the record." 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 
p.m., Monday through Friday.
Classifieds 
LOST: wallet lost Thurs nile at campus NEED A CHEAP PLACE TO STORE Have you seen WE SLAM NO DUNKSifl
NOTICES TICKETS
v1ew-southern sect1on park1ng lot. No $$ YOUR STUFF OVER THE SUMMER ? JIM CLEVENGER? WE SLAM NO DUNKSifl was rn rt, but there rs a reward offered for PLEASE CALL MARIE 277·0487 Without the beard that little boy face WE SLAM NO DUNKSIII 1ts return. Call M1ke 233-6068 1! found 
makes h1m a sure w1n for UMOC! WE SLAM NO DUNKSIllTyp1ng ALL KINDS 277-8534 after 6pm please. Please Help' Need One LOWER ARENA 
TICKET for GRADUATION EXERCISES TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
FOUND ON SOUTH QUAD: Cas10 flve­--Will trade one upper arena t1cket or w111 Thinking of going to the NUMBER ONE functron watch. Has mrtrals on the back. buy. Please call Debb1e at 234·7961 baseball town. Is anyone Interested 1n Men of Stanford:
WANTED 
TYPING. Jack1e Boggs. 684-8793. 

Blue. w1th silver watchband. Call Marty at Thanks! go1ng to ST. LOUIS for the weekend of Are your doors locked? Are you sure 
......... -~ 

1022. Apnl22·24? I really need the nders. must you·re safe? EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO 
HELP! Last member of good Catholic cecelebrate my 21st 1n style. Call D1ane at TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES 
NEED RIDE TO I U FOR UTILE FIVE· 

I lost an 1ndoor/outdoor Spald1ng basket· APR22 JOE 1154 fam1ly (1 e large) needs SEVEN gradua­7983 CALL: 287·5162. 
ball at Stepan #3 on Tues. at about 4.30. tion tickets. W111 pay $$$ Call M1ke at Hope your B-day was great Catwoman!!! The ball was brand spank1n· new and a Need R1de to Los Angeles area aHer ex­1159after 11 pm. Did a soaked Sok get sacked? SH. MN. and JA 
Typ1ng. my home. Expenenced in all gift Please g1ve Pat a call at 8625 1f you ams 10 May W1ll share usual Must get to phases of college typ1ng. 277·3085. 

took the ball by m1stake or found 1!. SISters graduation. call TIM 6853 D1d the Pup gel locked out 1n the ram? Should the Crown be frowned on? EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL IF YOU HAVE $160 AND A WAY TO
$40 REWARD! Green bookbag lost 1n 1 GOLDEN DOME hat OR 1nfo on how to 
PERSONALS
YEAR FLEXIBLE HOURS. MONTHLY NEW YORK. YOU CAN BE IN EUROPE 
South Dm1ng Hall. Desperately need the gel one -CALL MO SMC4412 
Volunteers needed S'lturday A.M. Apnl 
PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS BY THE DAY AFTER TOMORROW
30th. to canvas door-to-door 1n the South ON CAMPUS. BONUS BASED ON FOR DETAILS. CALL AIRHITCH, TOLL­contents to fin1sh school · Please call Bob 
Bend community for $1 donations for EARN $5000 th1s summer pa1nt1ng Logan s SPECIAL OLYMPICS 277-6880 &&&
RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS FREE. (800) 372·7234 Wanted Backpacks
WELL 800-526·0883 

LOST Wilson raquetbll raquet m south houses rn your hometown Contact Place­PROGRAM FOR THE HANDICAPPED.
Do you have an extenor-frame backpack 

d1ning hall Tuesday mght. Please call ment Off1ce for more 1nfo and application Get your fnends to 101n you 1n lh1s TYPING: $ 75/page. Fast & accurate. 
you would l1ke to sell? Maybe two or 

6957 if found, or drop outs1de 260 Bad1n· at Room 213. Adm Bldg. fundra1s1ng efforrt Logan needs YOU! TONY THE PONY FOR UBOC!! (ALIASCall Dan, 282·1680. 
three? Call Jeb. Jill, or J1m (but not Ed) at no questrons asked. FRUITCAKE)
Call CSC 239-5293 or 239-7862 to s1gn8641. Thank you. 
THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM COMES TO up.Part t1me or Summer·Energy department 
NOTRE DAMEfll The Notre Dame Stu­UMOC UMOC UMOC UMOC Sales. Energy Auditing, LS. Ayers 291· 
dent Players present the mag1c of MAN 7700 Ext. 2028 1982 Female grad student lookmg for OF LA MANCHA. com1ng to the stage of And lhe Lord sa1d unto them: Let yourroommate to share apt. 1n Ch1cago.
FOR RENT Washington Hall on April 21,22, and 23 What did Mike Doonesbury and Mark uglmess sh1ne forth among men.. Ugly
1 ·lk Gold or Sterling Chams resodered for 
Please call (312) 687-8723 afte 7 p.m. 
at 8 p.m. T1ckets go on sale Wednesday, Sfackmeyer lind In their search lor Man ts comtng$3.99 Returned Insured Ma11 Pablo·s Aft1c 
April 13. at the Student Umon ticket America? I don't know either, but I 121.5 North Normal. 1161761 WANTED: Compamon for coast-to-coast off1ce. ST Pnces are $3.50 1n advance want to lind out. See the WANTED add4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all b1cycle tnp across the U.S. Start from 
and $4 at the door. There are only three tor bicycling companion.B•Jarding horses. 1 m1. from N.D. Covered ut1hl1eS Included June or Sept. Call 319-Oregon around May 22. 9 to 10 weeks. 
n1ghts thiS year. so gel your t1ckets early; IF YOU RE INTO SPEED or enjoy ex­arena. 277·5828 (rmg 12x) 322-8735 PaHy need be only m1ldly crazy. Call M1ke at remember what happened to Cabsrst erctse tn the spnng a1r. stgn up tor the AN 1582 tickets! Don't miss the best show of the TOSTAL CHARITY SK RUN th1s week 
IJMOC IS BACK I!!! FREE RENT · House Sit for faculty mem­season-MAN OF LA MANCHA!Ill dullng dmner 1n the dm1ng halls Th1S 3 I· ber, summer. 319·322-8735 Pat. Need ride to PURDUE Fn 4/22 call6781 BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND .... The 
m1le race Will be held thiS Saturday There The Ark Is comingI hrst one was such a success. we JUSt had IS a $3.00 reg,strat1on fee w1th all 6 bedroom house 4rent completl y to schedule another one .THE OB­
proceeds go1ng to S1ster Manta·s School 

furmsed at 806 n stl01us also secu1ty FEMALE GRADUATE STUDENT FROM SERVER STAFF FORUM II Do you do 
Medals for 1st-61th men & women. ALL 

alarm system connected to pollee· for fur· OREGON SEEKING RESIDENCE SUM· anythmg for us? If so. we can do some­
Get the Porn out of the hbi'anesl FINISHERS ELIGIBLE FOR PRIZES 
!her 1nformat10n call1 362-7160 excellent MER AND/OR FALL CONTACT MARY thmg for you Have you ever wanted to donated by Athletes Foot. condit1on pnce negotiable make a compla1nt. suggestiOn or jusl ask 
AT 1460 PEARL. TILLAMOOK. 

MECHANICS-What is the shear Ioree ~50 REWARD!!! Damel Hechter black OREGON OR CALL COLLECT (503) a quest1on. but didn't know who to ask?
ot ~onallty at any given moment? 
1acket with red 1ns1de. Lost in South Dimng House to sub-let for summer 3 or 4 842-4243. Come to the Staff Forum and you'll get an Hall before Easter Please call277-2222. bedrooms Fully furn1shed 2 M1les from answer Tuesday. Apnl19 at 7 p.m. 1n the
Beth Hackett tor UMOCIIII WGRB FM 86 says GOOD-BYE 
';')QUESTIONS. campus. good ne1ghborhood Rent nego­Library Audttonum Be there HOOSIERS! 
tiable Call 239-7097, leave message for WANTED ENGLISH TEACHER FOR 
COME PLAY QUARTERS AT AN lOS­: OST: One Pair of Bronze/Brown metal Randy PRIVATE LESSONS. 5 HOURS WK 
TAL MORE INFO COMING!!! TOGA ·· amed GLASSES. Lost 1n the vicmity of CALL EVENINGS FROM 9-11 PHONE TOGA 
TAN FORD lobby after the Mr Stanford Summer Schoof? Apts. for Rent near N.D. 234-0141, EXT 339 TOGA
BANDMEMBERS: ontest on Friday Apnl 8 They have a Utiht1es Pd. Less Gas ph.272-Q261 
C1ao Fox! FOR RESPOSIBIUTY, FLEXIBILITY, TOGA .·gh sentimental value bemg that without RIDE NEEDED to Cleveland wknd of 
Hope you had one H··-of a B-day. D--­CREATIVITY,ORGANIZATION, AND TOGA ~t1em I cannot see!! If found please call or SUMMER RENT-3 BDRM HOUSE. 23rd. Call 239·5918. leave message for fTI Thanks for everything, espec1ally EFFICIENCY, VOTE MARY LANG FOR TOGA "'tum them to Jim at 8708-07. 329·30 NEXT TO CAMPUS, CHEAP. CALL 8657 T1m M. Need RIDERS to DAYTON for Bruce! I'll m1ss you lots next year BAND VICE-PRESIDENT!! ELECTIONS TOGA o.anford. (REWARD) ORB676JOHN gradua11on (Apr 22-24). Jul,e-3725 
Love. ARE TUESDAY Ill TOGA Me TOGA 1ST: IN Semor Bar last Satuday n1ght 4 BEDROOM HOUSE. GOOD SAFE 
TOGA 

/9/83) a hghtwl!lghl. navy blue jacket AREA. FURNISHED. LIKE-NEW INTE­TOGATOGATOGA 
·•h NOTRE DAME BAND in yellow on RIOR. $400/ mo.& uhf. MUST SEE. 287· TO ALL THOSE WHO CAME OUT TO TOGATOGATOGATOGA A back and NO BAND OF THE FIGHT· 3530 Day: 233-9947 N1ght. FOR SALE ' Observer reporters, productiOn workers, 
WATCH US GO FARTHER THAN WE'VE CAVANAUGH
G IRISH on front. If found (You'll know 
art1sts. photographers. newsed1tors. 
GONE BEFORE, WSND RADIO CLASH FRIDAY NIGHT 
•ether it belongs to you, or not) call 1 bdrm. unfurnished. $160 mo.-summer dayed1tors. typeseHers. copyed1tors. and 
SAYS THANKS. WITH SPECIAL 930 
\CK at 8876 or 8872. sublet-must be marned student Call House for sale: Un1verslly He1ghts. 3 busmess-types· It's almost here -THE THANKS TO ROBIN, PETE. BRUCE. APPROPRIATE DRESS MANDATORY 3852. bedrooms. $12.000 total. Immediate OBSERVER STAFF FORUM fl Tuesday 
TOM, "THE NC. STATE" CHEER­
st:navy blue athletic bag w/ Terms. 319-3228735. Pat n1ght at 7 p.m 1n the Library Aud1tonum. 
LEADERS AND ASSORTED OTHERS 
•oks,clothes.checkbook. Fmd any of · Faculty of Grad Students. 4 Bedroom Come With complamts. questions or sug-
WHO BRAVE THE RAIN. TO EVERYONE 
JOve 1tems w/ Fnsmo 1d call Mike.287· House. fully fum1shed With washer/dryer STEREO SYSTEM. 7-wt Rece1ver & ' gest1ons. If noth1ng else. drop by JUSt to HAVE YOU CHECKED THE
"LSE WE WILL RETURN NEXT YEAR!!! 

.)46. N1ce1 $400/month. 288-3109 Spkrs. LIKE NEW $1 00 Joel 1794 meet some of your colleagues By there CHILDREN? 



The Observer Monday, April 18, 1983 -page 11 
Bogeys fell opponent 
Zoeller wins Heritage Classic 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. (AP) -Fuzzy Zoeller. given breathing room when double bogey disaster struck down Jim Nelford, needed only a round of par 71, w score a two-stroke victory yesterday in the Sea Pines· Heritage Classic. 
Zoeller, the PGA tour's resident free spirit, acquired the fourth title of his career with a 275 total, nine strokes under par on the pic· turesque but deceptively difficult 6,650·yard Harbour Town Golf Links. 
The victory, on a beautiful but breezy spring day on this resort is· land, was worth S63,000 from the total purse of 5350,000. It raised Zoeller's earnings for the year to S l I 1.105 and cnahled him the join the elite gathering of winners only who will congregate for the Tourna· ment ofChampions next week. 
It was Zoeller's first triumph since the 19H 1 Colonial National Invita­tion and only his second since taking the 1979 Masters title. 
Zoeller, the leader after S.f hoks, surrendered the top spot over the front nine, and a host of challengers emerged. Among them were Craig Stadler, persistent Mac O'Grady; Bob Eastwood. Nelford and David Graham. 
One by one they began dropping back and Zoeller regained the lead with birdies on the tough 1Oth and 12th holes. 
Nelford, a Canadian who has yet to win in six seasons on the American tour, was the last conten­der. He tied Zoeller with a 25-foot left-handed putt on the 14th. 
That tie, at 10 under par, was a tleeting, momentary thing, however, as Nelford, too, fell victim to the subtle demands of the course many players regard as the finest on the Tour. 
Nelford got his third shot in a hunker on the par-five 15th, just got out with his f(>Urth, played a weak chip and had to make an eight-footer for bogey-six that dropped him one hack. 
On the 16th, he again found the sand, exploded long and then three­putted for a double bogey that provided the steady Zoeller with a three-shot lead with two holes to go. 

Despite triple-bogey 
Adams defeats Carn.er in LPGA 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Lynn Adams triple-bogeyed the first hole hut regained the lead with an eagle on No. 12 and went on to win the S l 50,000 LPGA combanks Orlando Classic by two strokes over JoAnne Carner and Janet Anderson yester­day. 
The victory was the first in six years as a professional for Adams, who shot a final round 71 for a 54­hole total of eight-under-par 208. Her best previous finish was second in the Tucson Conquistadores Open in February. 
Carner, chasing her 38th tour vic­tory, but her first in 1983, matched par on the final day over the 6,274­yard Cypress Creek Country Club course for a six-under 2 I 0 total. An­derson fired a 6H to quietly remain among the leaders all day. 
Carner bogeyed three straight holes to lose the grip on the lead she inherited when Adams took a triple bogey on the par five, 515-yard first hole. 
The woman other tour players like to call "Big Mama" led by one shot when she bogeyed No. 1·2 -a hole she eagled the previous two days -and then watched Adams soar to ;Ptwo-stroke advantage wit.h an eagle of her own on the par five, 453-yard hole. 
Adams' lead went to three shots over Anderson and four over Carner when she birdied fourteen, but Car­ner trimmed her deficit to two with a birdie on 16 after Adams dropped a stroke on 1 5. 
Adams, who led the Women's Kemper Open for two rounds before faltering last month, wrapped up the title by matching par on the last three holes. 
She had started the day with a one­stroke lead, but trailed by three strokes afer Carner birdied No. 2. She began her comeback with birdies on seven and eight and won 
S22,500 to boost her 1983 earnings to S47,447. 
Debbie Massey shot a 70 Sunday and finished at five-under-par 211, three strokes back. Patti Rizzo, Alice :\'Iiller and Donna White, who captured her first LPGA title here in 1980, were at 212. 
Defending champion Patty Sheehan finished well behind the leaders at 213 after a final-round 70, and first-round leader Ayako Okamoto struggled again, shooting a 77 to wind up with a 220 total. 

Double one-hitters 
Irish shut offbyISU pitching 

If Rick Chryst didn't pick up a pair of bits in Saturday's doubleheader againstlndian(.t'State, the Irish would have been no­bit twice. Neal Smith reports above. 
The Oh~r\'er/Scotr Bower 

In this light u•elterweigbt bout, Brent Ernsberger and Kirk Back­er went at it as the Professinal Karate Association promoteda card at the ACC Saturdav night. 
p L • p 

ATTENTION. ALL Graduating Students 

Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
Tuesday Apri/19, 1983 and Wednesday Apri/20, 1983 Between 9:00 and 4:00 at the 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
r.• • • ..,• 
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 

The Irish baseball team was zero­for-three this weekend. Saturday Notre Dame lost a doubleheader 3-0 and 4-1 to two one-hitters pitched by the Indiana State Sycamores. The team lost to Mother Nature Sunday as a doubleheader against Purdue was cancelkd due to the cold weather. At game time the tem­perature at Jake Kline Field was 32 degrees. 
Freshmen Andy Ghelfi and Paul Quinzer ofIndiana State allowed the Irish only one hit in each of the games Saturday. Both htts came off the bat ofIrish captain Rick Chryst. 
Irish coach Larry Gallo remarked that the players were just not hitting the ball. Gallo added that the team probably only hit the ball hard three times all day. 
In the opener, Ghelfi pitched a no­hitter through the fifth inning. In the sixth, Chryst reached first base safe­ly with a bunt on the third base side of the diamond. 
Notre Dame had a scoring oppor­tunity earlier in the game. The Irish loaded the bases on a walk, an error, and a hit-batsman. The inning ended on a Casey Snyder grouder to second. 
Junior :\'lark Clementz took the loss as he went the distance on the mound for the Irish. The loss was Clementz's first at Notre Dame. He is 2-1 on the season and 8-1 for his Irish career. 
The Sycamores scored their first run in the third on a lead-off single a triple by outfielder Rob Baker. In the fourth, Indiana State picked up an­other run on a single, two sacrifice bunts, and another single. The final run was a Tony Colucci homer over the left field fence in the sixth. 
In the second game, Quinzer pitched a perfect game for Indiana State except for a solid Chryst single to right field in the fourth inning. 
Chryst, who stole second base and advanced to third on a deep fly to center. He scored the lone Irish run on a wild pitch. 
The Sycamores scored one run in each ofthe tlrst, third, fifth, and sixth innings off of Irish pitcher Bill Stonikas ( 1-2 ). The first inning run was made possible when the lead-off batter was awarded a stolen base af­ter it appeared that the runner was thrown out by a couple ofsteps. The umpire stated that the tag was never made. The runner later scored on a groudout. IRISH ITEMS -The 11-1 5 Irish could possibly travel to Purdue today to make up this weekend's cancelled doubleheader. It was not known until late this morning if the team would make the trip ... If the team does not go to Purdue today, its next game will be tomorrow in Evanston, Ill. against the Northwes­tern Wildcats ... No matter when Notre Dame plays its next game, second baseman Jack Moran will be in the line-up. Moran, the team's leading batter with a .342 batting average, did not suit up for the In­diana State games due to a broken nose he suffered in Friday's practice. 


--~---~ ~ ~­
The Observer Monday, April18, 1983 -page 12 

The Notre Dame tennis team beat Big Ten foe Michigan State impressive~y Saturday, 8-1. The Irish continue their stand against teamsfrom that conference Thursday when Wisconsin comes in. 
Belles sports weekend 
SMC track, softball in action 
The Saint Mary's track team hosted a meet Saturday morning, but it was not at the Belles' usual home site of Clay Township High School. The unfamiliar setting, Adams High, wasn't very kind, a~ Saint Mary's finished third behind Manchester College and Anderson College. 
However, coach Jean Kerich had something to smile about as Lisa Johnston set a pair of SMC records on a sunny, hut cold morning. Her first-place high jump of 5-3 and and 

Tennis vs. MSU 

Notre Dame beats Big Ten foe 
By MARK B. JOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
Almost as surprising as the unex­
pected sunny skies; Coach Tom Fal­
lon's men's tennis team charged into 

Courtney Tennis Center Saturday 
and behind near-flawless play, 
blasted Michigan State, 8-1 
As if· it was meant to be, the weather and team play jelled to produce one of Notre Dame's strongest performances of the season. Despite strong winds and hustling Spartans, the Irish served up a sweep in singles competition and lost only a three-set doubles match in the third slot during the teams' 26th confrontation. · 
Leading off for the Irish, senior captain Mark McMahon patil'ntly out~hot a totally frustrated Joe O'Brien in a 6-2, 6-2 No. I matchup. 
After a seemingly easy lirst set win, sophomore Mike Gibbons fal­tered for a moment, hut quickly recovered to tlnish in a flurry, as he outlasted quick and diminutive Spar­tan captain Steve Yorimoto, 6-1, -1-6, 6-..J in his second spot. 
At No. 3, freshmen Joe Nelligan overcame an early deficit in both sets, as he worked meticulously to a 7-5, 6-4 Irish victory over a weary Curtis Wright. 
Sophomore St. Louis southpaw John Novatny was nothing short of impressive in his 6-4, 6-2 domina­tion of his No. 4 counterpart Ron Smith, as Novatny neared perfection in every aspect of his game. 
After dropping his first three 

ND Clubs & Organizations 
TIME TO RE-REGISTER FOR 83-84. NEW SYSTEM THIS YEAR! 
1. 
Registration-now thru April 22. 

2. 
Activity Report -Due by Apri I 22. 


3. Applications for activity funds for 83-84-Due by April 22. 
4. 
Footbal Concession Stand for Fall, 83-Due April 22. 

5. 
Movie Application for Fall, Spring 83-84-Due April15 


All forms available in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune. FUNDS FOR NEXT YEAR WILL BE AWARDED THIS SPRI~~ 
~ 

Ir---------------------------------------,
1st Annual "Ciubbers" Golf O-uting I 
I  FRIDAY, APRIL 29th  I  
II  GETYOURFOURSOMESTOGETHER!  II  
II  Tee Off's Start at Noon  II  
I  Club · Look Out Afterwards at the  I  
I  Presidential Manor  I  
I1  $10.00 per person  I1  
I  Sign· up by Fri., Apri/22 in Marketing Office  I  

~---------------------------------------~ 
third-place 100-yard hurdles of Saint Mary's beat Anderson, 9-2 in 
17.10 both were school records. the t1rst game of a doubleheader Cindy Short ran the 1,500 in Saturday. Anderson came back in the 
4:54.5 to get the first and set another second game to shut off the Belles, SMC mark. 10-·-i. 
The Belles had another runner In the t1rst game, the Belles' tight qualify for the NAJA national meet . defense led the way as Anderson got next month at Charleston, W. Va., as only 13 baserunners. Winning Annette Isom ran the 3,000 in a pitcher Annie Day could thank the school-record 10:35.4. SMC defense for only committing 
Barb Theiss, Diane Yasinnski, one error behind her. Teresa McGinnis and Elaine Suess 
-The Obser1•er 
each pounded out a pair ofsingles as 


games while t111ing in for .his feverish brother at No. 5, sophomore Tom Pratt took charge, as he forged into the lead and never looked back on Joe Webster in his 7-5, 6-4 victory. 
Junior Tim Noonan won the first 
game of the afternoon against Andy 
Salsia, and he never relinquished the 
lead, as he picked up the intensity of 
the match to earn himself his 
seventh straight singles victory, 6-3, 
6-0. 

For Coach Stan Drohac's Spar­tan's, the doubles competition could have been a chance to save face, but the day belonged to the Irish, and Michigan State could only. deny the Irish ofa sweep by one match. 
Noonan and Novatny comhined their talents at Notre Dame's No. I spot, and they proved their worth by downing O'Brien and Yorimoto, 6-1, 5-6, 6-4 in a swaying hattie. 
At No. 2, senior Paul ldzik and McMahon could have been giving tennis lessons, as their superior combination had no problems defeating Smith and Webster. 
Still looking for his best No. 3 doubles team and wishing to give Gibbons a rest after his long'singles match, Fallon put Nelligan and Pratt 
to the test agamst Steve Hooley and Wright. Although playing well for a t1rst-time team, the Irish combo could not complete the sweep, a'> the Spartans t1nished strong for a 6-4, 
6-7, 3-6 win. 
"It was great to finally beat a Big Ten team, and it was even sweeter because we really needed a win like this about now," commmented Gib­bons. 
Riding high fresh offtheir Big Ten victory, Fallon and his players were raring to go against defending Big Ten champion Michigan on Sunday, hut an early morning telephone call from Wolves coach Brian Eisner brought disappointing news to the squad. Apparently the overnight snow was to much for the \X'ol­verines, as they claimed to be snowed in and unable to make the trip. 
As they fought for their lives at the ACC two years ago, maybe the weather was not the only thing the Wolverines were afraid of, but the match will he rt"scheduled, and al­though the Irish will not be riding the wave of their Spartan win, they will get their shot. 

White Sox beat Tigers; Cubs lose again 
CHICAGO (AI') -Rookie Ron Kittle's two-run homer, his fourth of the season, capped a four-run t1rst in­ning and Dennis Lamp hurled a two­hitter Sunday to lead the Chicago White Sox to a 6-1 victory over the Detroit Tigers. 
Rudy Law opened the Chicago t1rst with a single and scored on a douhle by Tony Bernazard, who reached third when third baseman Howard Johnson dropped the relay 
throw for an error. Bernazard scored 
on Johnson's second error, a wild throw home on Greg Luzinski's grounder, and Kittle followed with a shot through the wind into the up­per deck in left t1eld. 
Lamp, 2-1, gave up a single to Lou Whitaker leading off the game and lost his shutout bid in the t1fth when Larry Herndon hit his third homer. The game was played in .34-degree weather with a wind chill that made it I:degrees. 
The Sox added a run offloserJerry Ujdur, 0-2, in the tlfth and a t1nal run off reliever Dave Rozema in the sixth. 
Pirates 7, Cubs 0 

PITTSBURGH (AP)-John Can­delaria and Rick Rhoden combined on a three-hitter ~unoay as the Pitts­burgh Pirates weathered two snow delays and temperatures in the mid­
.30s to beat the Chicago Cubs 7-0 in the t1rst game ofa doubleheader. The second game was postponed due to the bad weather. 
Candelaria, who also scored two runs, gave up just two hits before being lifted in the bottom of the 
sixth after two delays caused by snow flurries. Rhoden earned his t1rst save. 
The Pirates took a l-0 lead in the third offloser Steve Trout, 1-2, when Candelaria reached on an error bv 
t1rst baseman Bill Buckner and came around to score on Lee Mazzilli's sacrit1ce fly. 
Brian Harper led off the Pirate fourth with his second home run, 
and the Pirates added two more runs on a two-out, bases-loaded single by Bill Madlock. 
The Pirates added two more runs in the sixth despite the weather delays on run-scoring singles by 
Mazzilli and Jason Thompson. Lee Lacy doubled, then came home on Mazzilli's sacrit1ce fly in the eighth. 
ND volleyball team announces award 
The Notre Dame volleyball season ended a long time ago ­November, to be exact -but it never officially ended until yes­terday, when the team celebrated its successfuI season with a brunch. There was a presentation of a few awards and a chance for the lone graduating senior, Jackie Pagley, to say goodbye. 
Karen Bauters and Terese Henken were the award winners. BatHers, one of the freshman stars, was honored as the Best ()f. fensive/Defcnsive Player during the season, while Henken. a junior, was given the Most lm­

proved Player award. 
Coach Sandy Yanslager then announced a new award for spe­cial attitude named in honor of Pagley, who impressed Vanslager and her ao;sistant, Dan Anderson, with her dedication and personal qualities. The award will not be presented annuallY. but rather will be presented when a player that the coaches feel deserves the award comes along. 
The brunch puts an end to a 25-9 season for the team, but, at the same time. marks a beginning to the upcoming season which will see the Irish play its toughest schedule ever. 

~-------------
TheObserver Monday, April18, 1983-page 13 
• • ..Lacrosse 
continuedfrompage 16 
wide five·goal lead with under five minutes left in the half. 
Then the Notre Dame offense opened up. Three quick goals at the end of the half made the score 9-7 and gave the Irish players some con­fidence against their highly-touted opponents. 
The second half began where the third left off as Dwayne Hicks, Franklin, and Pearsall scored to give Notre Dame a 10-9 lead with eight minutes left in the third quarter. Wesleyan evened the score soon af­terward-;, but not until the Irish had held them scoreless for more than 13 minutes with some sensational saves by goalie Rob Simpson, and Shay and Corscadden. 
Wesleyan retook the lead and in­creased the margin to two, 12-10. Goals by Franklin and Driscoll, sandwiched around a Wesleyan goal, brought the score to 13-12, set­ting the stage for Notre Dame's scoring opportunity in the closing minutes. 
One of the major reasons for the tough loss was Notre Dame's in­ability to clear the ball from its end of the field. In failing to get the job done eight of eighteen times, the Irish bottled themselves up in their own end, giving Wesleyan countless 
scoring opportunities. 
"The key was them getting a lot more shots than us," said O'Leary of the large deficit of 50 shots to 32. "They had a lot more chances to score than we did." 
One of the reasons that they only scored two goals more was the play of Simpson, Shay, and Corscadden. Simpson stopped 22 Wesleyan shots, including some sensational blocks. Shay and Corscadden were also very impressive, blocking about 
I 0 shots with their bodies when the ball got past Simpson. 
In fact, Shay was not limited to on­ly defensive play. He was used at the midfield to utilize his ability to pick up the ball. However, his biggest 
contribution  was  shutting  down  
Wesleyan's  star  attackman,  Mitch  
Rorcina., in the second half.  

Irish third in Indiana state meet 
Notre Dame finished third in the Indiana Intercollegiate Championships held Saturday at Indiana University's Track and Field Stadium in Indianapolis. In­diana University won the meet while Purdue University took 
second. 
Irish winners were John McCloughan, who ran the 11 0 hurdles in a personal best time of 14.37, and Jim Taylor, whose 3:48.82 won the 1,500-meters. 
Three members of the ND 

squad qualified for the IC4A 
championships to be held at Vil­
lanova University next month. 
Mark Wozniak and Dan Walsh 
were timed in .~0:21.6 and 
30:35.29 in the I0,000 meters and EdJuba ran a 9:16.04 3,000­meter steeplechase as the Irish came in with 73 points. 
Indiana Central's Randy Heis­

ler won the shot put and the dis­
cus to earn outstanding 
performer honors. 
Assistant Coach Ed Kelly ran the Irish unit as Head Coach Joe Piane was unable to attend the meet because of a death in the family. 
Next action for the Irish run­ners will be next weekend at the Purdue Invitational at West Lafayeue. 
-The Observer 
Bookstore Tournament Stepan 1 Motown over Hey by 9 Friday's Results .John Shoe & The Sneakers over we·re Short by 1 1 Sons Of Thunder over The Scroggs by 1 2 

Stepan 1 Mercury Morns Chose Coke Over Peps1 over Rtch Armed & Dangerous M-21 ExplOSive B-Ball Unit over 1-iunter & The Polish Nationals by 10 Hawkeye & The Chicken Chokers by 9 13.0. & The Bouncmg Balls over The Last Of The 
Team# 361 over Team# 289 by 8 Stoosters by 10 Lumber Lobbers over Win One . .by 10 TeqUIIIa White Llghtmng Ill over We Can Beat You That"s Right Wez Bad over Shari·s Darlings by 6 by 2 
Stepan2 The Bleedmg Ax Wounds over FranCIS Hotel LaSalle K1ntuckee over Two Fourth Generation Domer loy 13 Brothers ..by 4 Love & The Shootmg Stars over Team # 62 by 1 1 
Team # 178 over 5 Short White Guys With No Ath­Stepan2 letic Ability by 3 Armed & Dangerous M-21 Explos1ve B-Ball UM over Team# 394 over The Deta1ls by 10 Kintuckee by 8 Play At Your Own R1sk over G.G. & The SOllers by 10 We Go 5 over POA .by 9 
Stepan3 Team # 30 over Spoofhounds Ill 23-21 The Bnck Throwers over John Murphy"s Slime Train Cancelled Due To Lack Of Interest over Team# 430 1Vby15 loy 10 Boom-Boom Mancini & The Oriental Vegetables over Nutmeggers Are Back Agam over Pendejos by 1 1 Team# 402 by 7 :Shondell over Run & Gun by 7 Team# 341 over Stalking The W1ld ..by 12 .J.B. & Co. over 5 Alternatives To Dave Papson by 5 Stepan 4 IB1gger. Better .over Show Her Your Love by 7 FOAK over John Hinckley"s School Of Esteem by 14 Stepan3 
B.O. & The Bouncmg Balls over Duk Koo Kim & The .Ja·s Men over Make Bel1evers 22-20 Bloodclots by 8 Macr(s Preferred Stock over Annd we·re Out Of Team# 377 over The No-Name K1ds by 4 Here by 14 Stepan 5 Boom Boom .over Hey V1nce by 5 
The Last Of The Stoosters over B. Lube A.v.·s by 3 NEBO"s IV over Slow. White, & Can·t Jump by 8 Mercury Morns Chose Coke Over Peps1 over Love, Double Decker Oreo Cook1e over Eugene by 14 Skull & The Ch1cken Wings by 6 l~ousseau·s Noble Savages over Freddte Brown 
Stepan 6 lly9 Cancelled Due To Lack Of Interest over Team# 21 4 Guys Who .over Team # 88 by 5 by? 
Stepan 4 Rich Hunter & The Pohsh Nationals over Cnme Team# 361 over Team# 178 by 11 Doesn·t Pay-Part 1123-21 Our Last Chance To Take No Prtsoners over Ed Sees Stepan7 l~ed 22-20 Eugene over Team# 504 by 6 Capt. Crunch .over Lumber Lobbers by 17 Stepan 8 Team # 263 over Where by 4 Runmng Rebels over Doug·s Gunners by 7 Runmng Rebels over Whoosh. Jerk. by 2 
Bookstore9 Thal"s R1ght. Wez Bad over The Combme Brothers & Pangloss .over Four Gnngos .by 2 Assorted Mothers 24-22 
Annd We re Out Of Here over The Cuban MISSile P1g Bag over Mangled Baby Ducks Bleed 1\gam by 3 CriSIS by 8 
Stepan 5 Team# 65 over FLOC .22-20 Ralph1e over 3 Tremendous Tan Masters & Some Embarrass1ng .over 4 Throats & A Real Domer by Pretty Fa1< lnshmen by 6 8 Orange Crush over Sex & The Four Offenders by 8 
Bookstore 10 The Bnck Throwers over FOAK by 13 Team T # 490overThe Purdue Hockey Team by 13 WEBB"s Encore over PGNF In Stereo by 3 Name Withheld Upon Request over No. But Senous-Play At Your Own R1sk over Team# 136 by 7 
ly, by 5 F1nal 51 2 Or Bust over Knockouts by 5 Captain L1ps over Team # 8 by 5 Showdown over Jack Patnck by 2 John Holmes over Team# 380 by 6 Stepan 6 
Lyons 11 Team # 65 over Captain L1ps & The Amaz1ng Zulu Great Amencan .over Paul & The Penla-Tomcs by Brothers II by 6 14 
People Who D1ed over The Mallone K1ds by 1 1 Our Last Chance To Take No Pnsoners over Verm1n -Team # 371 ·over But We Had A Good Recru1t1ng 
by8 Yearby13 Motown over Showt1me by 10 8th Floor Losers over F1eld Ed by 2 Not At All Assoc1ated W1th The EvenlessJacksonless Team# 257 over 4 Human Bemgs by 6 
F1ve over Bar a Ray by 2 WBBS overTeam # 377 by 1 1 Lyons 12 Fun Bunch Ftve over Grammke·s Gonllas by 10 
Team # 392 over Blum s Bums 22-20 Bookstore9 Team# 335 over Team# 415 by 15 The Creamers overTeam # 368 by 1 0 Hey. over Steve St1panov1ch .by 7 Gentol Express over Sl1m Joe Gruber by 7 John Delorean over S.Guys W1th .by 4 Cash Amberg & The Country Boys over 4 Basketball 
Players & 1 Guy W1th A Lot Of Guts by 5 .Joe Jakub1k over Silky by 7 Saturday's Games Evenless Jacksonless Ftve over Last Chance Express by 10 Stepan 1 Bookstore 10 Knockouts over Dry Gnnders by 2 3 Beers & 2 Grape Nehts Please over Name Wtthheld Stepan 2 Upon Request by 10 F1eld Ed over Geek Hunters by 13 Pangloss overTearn # 490 by 7 Stepan 3 43C-130 over Clinton·s Cores Encore by 4 Jack Patnck .over WSND Rad1o Clash by 9 Passton & Romance & Commtes From Mars over Stepan 4 l<evtn Outnn by 5 Gramke s Gonllas over Team # 455 by 1 t 13ad To The Bone over Embarrass1ng by 13 Stepan 5 Lyons11 Vamlla Wonders over DGW II plus 2 by 3 Ch1cks D1g Us over G1l Thorpe s VarSity Squad by 6 
Stepan 6 fhe Screarntng over Great Amertcan 22-20 Cash Amberg & The Country Boys over The Early 4 Jerks over The Militant P1gs by 1 2 R1sers by 16 
,John Holmes over John Delorean & The All-Stepan 7 Clmton s Core·s Encore over The Stnp & Go Nakeds 
Stepan 8 43C -130 over Cooter by 8 
Bookstore 9 The M1l1lant P1gs over Duk Koo K1m by 8 Bookstore 1 0 The Soc1al Retards over Muldoon·s Men by 15 
by 9 : Write: 
: tne :

Lyons 11 Menold Sheet Metal overTeam # 304 by 1 0 
Lyons 12 G1l Thorpe s Vars1ty Squad over Old Men On The Block by forfe1t 
:seo.rts!
END OF ROUND TWO 
ROUND THREE 
• E01tor• 
Yesterday's Games 
,.••....••, 


Trocchi, Pearsall, and Franklin were the major part of the Irish of­fense. Franklin had five goals and an assist, while Trocchi contributed 
three goals and two assists and Pear­
sall chipped in two goals. 
The loss left the Irish with a 4-5 overall record and a 3-2 record in the MLA. MLA leader, Wesleyan, now holds a 10-1 overall record and the only undefeated record in the MLA. 
Notre Dame will not have to wait long for a chance to get back on the winning side as another MLA foe, Wittenberg College, visits Cartier Field at 3:30 tomorrow. 
Wittenberg is a new member of the conference and is pretty much a mystery team to O'Leary. One thing he does know about the team, however. is that it lost to Wesleyan 
by a very lopsided margin last week. The game is expected to be a breat­Dwayne Hicks (30) had a goal in Saturday's her before a grueling three-day road Notre Dame lacrosse match with Ohio Wesleyan trip to Ohio over the weekend. University, ranked 11th in Division Ill. The Irish, 
The 'Scintillating 64'. • • 
The QbS('rver/John Wachter 

in their third year as a varsi~y sport, gave Wes­leyan a scare, losing 14-12. 
White Dust by 7 MacNamera·s Band over ·G· Anat1cs by 11 
Lyons12 Beaucoup .over The Problem .by 9 US over Duk Koo K1m·s ..by 9 SWC over Tall But Wh1te by 9 Vamlla Wonders over Not At All Assoc1ated W1th The Evenless Jacksonless 5 by 2 Soc1al Retards over Menold Sheet Metal by 5 
END OF ROUNb THREE 
ROUND FOUR Today's Games 

Stepan 1 WEBB·s Encore v. Wave Your .(4.45) Fmal512 Or Bust v. 8th Floor Losers (5:30) TeqUIIIa While L1ghln1ng Ill v J.B. & Co. (6·15) 
Stepan2 

Capt. Crunch .v. Boom Boom .(4:45) Bleed1ng Ax Wounds v. Nutmeggers Are Back Aga1n (5 30) 
Love & The Shoot1ng Stars v B1gger. Better (6 15) . Stepan 3 B 0. & The Bounc1ng Balls v Cancelled Due To Lack Of Interest (4"45) NEBO·s IV v. Team# 263 (5 30) Play At Your Own R1sk v. WBBS (6 15) Stepan4 Sons Of Thunder v Yank .(4:45) Orange Crush v. Team# 257 (5.30) Double Decker Oreo Cookte v. Aunmng Rebels (6 15) 
Stepan5 Showdown v. Fun Bunch F1ve (6:1 5) 
Stepan& 4 Guys Who Haven·! .v. Thal"s R1ght. Wez Bad (6:15) 
Stepan 7 Mercury Morns Chose Coke Over Peps1 v. Shondell (6 15) Stepan 8 Rousseau·s Noble Savages v. P1g Bag (6 15) 
Bookstora9 John Shoe & The Sneakers v. We Go 5 ( 4:00) US v. Beaucoup .(4:45) Social Retards v. Geritol Express (5·30) Even-less Jackson less Ftve v. Passton & Romance & Comm1es From Mars (6 15) 
Bookstore 10 Ja·s Men v. Team# 361 (4 00) 3 Beers & 2 Grape Neh1s Please v. ChiCks D1g Us (4:45) 43C -130 v 4 Jerks .(5:30) Bad To The Bone v. John Holmes .(6 15) 
Lyons 11 The Bnck Throwers v. Team# 65 (4 00) Macn s Preferred Stock v. Our Last Chance To Take No Pnsoners (4 45) 
SWC v. The Creamers (5:30) Vamlla Wonders v. Cash Amberg & The Country Boys (615) Lyons12 
Motown v. Armed & Dangerous M-21 Explosive B­Ball Uml ( 4 00) Ralph1e .v People Who D1ed (4 45) Pangloss v. The Screammg .(5 30) Joe Jakubik v. MacNamara s Band (6 15) 
Attn. First Degree Members, Second 
and Third Degree  
~~  Apri~  24, 1983  
~-~-·-7 "\' 4 /  Call239 ·  7018 Now To Register  

:. /. 

(Deadline April19) 
ATTENTION ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN WORKING ON THE 1984 DOME 
ASPHOTOGRAPHERORSTAFFMEMBER MEETING IN DOME OFFICE 3RDFLOORLAFORTUNE APRIL 19 AT 7PM 
The Atomic Cafe r1980t 
An h1lar~ous and lr~ghli'm•ng look at Amer~ca·s Cold War and the cull of 
the alom. The Arom1c Cafe 1s one of the most enterta1n1ng and d1sturb­
1ng documenta<les m recenl years D~rectors Jayne Loader and Ke,;,n 
and P1erce Rafferty have collected and JUxtaposed government and 
commerc1al lootage 1n10 an ~ron1c. mordant and pass,onate polem1c 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission· 
~__.--lr t() ~ 11 tl3ltilr s z· o o ~ 

I 
I
' 

I 1 
~·~-----~----~--------­
The Observer 
The Observer/Scott Bower 

Debbi Hensley, shown here in her last Notre Dame varsi~y game, shot 9-for-30 in ber women's Bookstore game yesterday, as her team, Last Drool . .. Uz,ulas, advanced to the final 32. Mike Sul­livan reports at rigiJt. 
See Herschel Walker! 
us leaves Main Circle eNDers at 7PM 

Tim Koegel~ Jim Stone, Luther Bradley! $11 Sign up at NDSU ticket officejrecord store 
Get Involved!! Cultural Arts Commission 
sponsor of SLF, CJF, Student Players, ISIS, etc .... 

To 'Sweet 16' 

Top women's teams advance 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 

If there is one thing that the 1983 Women's Bookstore tournament has not been marked by, it is hard-t(>ught defeats. When teams have lost, they have lost big time. For instance, in the second round of the tournament which was played over the weekend, the closest score was 21· 1l. Now, after the slaughters, 16 teams remain. 
The weekend marked the first ac­tion of the four top seeds and none of them had too many problems <i!\Vith their outclassed opponents. "W'e Ain't So Bad make Mort and His Skibbobolettcs ... look really bad in a 21·3 victory. Mary McQuillan led We Ain't So Bad with her H-of·l 0 shooting, while Carrie Luepke .made 
nine of her I-r shots. Mort and His Skibbobolettes. . . didn't have as much luck, making just three of its 2'7 shots. 
Another seed, Who Cares, had a little tougher time with Twisters, finally emerging with a 21·1 1 win. Jackie Barry and Kathy Marnocha led Who Cares with seven and five points, respectively. Twisters was made of most of the players who 
. won last year's tournament. The other two ~eeds, Oreos and Last Dniol ..., were not too success· ful shooting, but still were able to sleep walk through their .games. Orcos, led by Notre Dame basketball star Shari Mal\•cy, cased to a 2 I·7 win over We're Not Big ... as Dava Newman and Maureen Milota scored six baskets apiece. Last Drool . . beat Just Fast Enough to be Fun, 2 I·H, but seemed to be having so much fun itselfthat it decided to drag things out a bit. Last Drool ... needed ...,H shots to finany end tht· game. Another Notre Dame player. Dcbbi llcnslcy. led the Last Drool attack(?). shootir.g more times in the game ( 30) than in her entire Notre Dame career and scoring nine baskets. 
Joining the top seeds in the third 
round was Pneumothorax, a team 
led by Saint Mary's basketball player 
Missy Van Ort, which destroyed 
Wild Women, 21-3, as Van Ort hit an 
impressive 13 of 14 shots. Wild 
Women was so outmatched that it 
could only get 19 shots off during 
the entire game. 
Mary Reilly of Leather and Lace 
also led her team into the next 
round with some hot shooting. Reil­
ly rhade 11 ofher 14 shots as Leather 
and Lace beat Pretenders, 21-3. 
Women's Bookstfe 
Notre Dame volleyball player Jo~ie Maternowski made 10-of-23 shots to lead Real Farley Women ... to a 21-3 rout of One Amiable Zany .... Maternowski didn't get too much help from her teammates, though, as Kendra Erven and Patty Hackett combined for an awesome 6-of-39. She did get a lot ofhelp from One Amiable Zany . . . who could make only three of its 23 shots. 
Probably the most tremendous feat of the day was the shooting per· formance of Betsy Dooley of the in· famous Supply team. After shooting 1-for-23 in her first game (the I0-H marathon game), Dooley must have tlgured that she couldn't do worse. She came close, though. as she made just one of her sixteen shots in Supp­ly's 21-7 loss to Annette Buford .... That gives her a combined pcrfor· mancc of 2-of-39 for the tourna· ment. If her team had not lost. there's no telling how well she could have done. 
Dooley's performance over the weekend was not even the worst of the day as Kathy Bego was shutout in 16 shots. In fact. her team, French Connection, had a hard time connecting on anything as it shot just 7-ol~56 in its 21-7 loss to Chip­

................~oupon................ 
Students and Staff 
of St. mary's and Notre Dame 
additional off
SlOO 

On your best deal on any new Toyota. Just present coupon and I.D. to 
~ES

ffiichael Fahey at 
fOYOTA 

over 100staff, alum, &students sold Call237-4052 one per customer 
coupon...........a..... 

REMEMBER 
Yearbook Senior Portraits!! 
AprilS to April22 9:30 · 1 and 2 · 5:00 
YOU CAN STILL SIGN UP FOR YOUR PORTRAIT BY CALLING 239-5183 NOW!! 
Sittings: Traditional $5.00 Contemporary $8.15 
pendales. 
Finally, there was the team called Five Chicks . . . that had an even worse time shooting than Chip­pendales. Led by Eileen Carney's 2­of-l 7 shooting, Five Chicks ... gunned in three of 31 shots in its 21­3 destruction at the hands of Double Trouble. 
Action now turns to the third round which will be held tomorrow on the Stepan courts starting at 4 
p.m. The fourth round games will be played on Thursday at Saint Marv's, also starting at 4 p.m. · 
Hopefully, there won't be anymore 21·3 games. 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Saturday's Results 
Stepan 2 
Who Cares 21. Twtsters 11 
Annette Buford 21. Supply 7 
Leather and Lace 21. Pretenders 3 
A1m Wreckers 21. FlUid Fun 2 
Stepan 7 We A1n·t So Bad 21. Mort and H1s Sk1bbobolettes 3 Double Trouble 21. F1ve Ch1cks 3 Chippendates 21. French Connect1on 7 Pneumothorax 21. Wild Women 3 
Yesterdays Results 
SMC1 Last Drool 21. Just Fast Enough 3 Blow-oils 21, Goody Ten Shoes B Kahlua and the Cremes t 5. Rudy Kaplensky s 2 Negligence 21. Boom Booms Bombers 5 
SMC2 Oreos 21, We re Not B1g 7 Cameras 15. Ballhandlers 5 
TBA 21. Hoos1er Hoopsters 9 
Real Farley Women 21. One Amiable Zany 3 
Tomorrow's Games 
Stepan 1 
Oreos vs Cameras (4) 
Kahlua and lhe Cremes vs Negligence (4 45) 
Stepan 2 TBA vs Real Farley WoJllen (5 30) Last Drool vs Blow-offs (6 30) 
Stepan 3 We A1n I So Bad vs Double Trouble (4) Chippendales vs Pneumothorax (4 45) 
Stepan 6 Who Cares vs Annette Buford 14) Leather and Lace vs A1m Wreckers 14 45) 
• • • Shove 
continuedji·om page 16 
behind Pinkett, dove over from the one on the next play. 
"Smitty looks really good," praised Faust of his fullback who is battling :\1ark Brooks for the fullback position, "but Brooks is also playing very well. Hoth oi them will see a lot ofaction this fall. 
"Ray Carter is coming along well, he's a nice surprise," continued Faust. Carter had -tO yards in I 1 carries. 
Inside linebacker Joe Bars of the No. 2 unit led the team in tackles with six. Fellow :'llo. 2 linebacker Rick DiBernardo had tour as did 

................................................................................................., 
Hey Freshmen and SophomoresI Need a Job for Next Year? 
three members of the No. 1 
defensive line, :\1ikc Golic. Eric Dor­
sey and .Jon Autry. 
No. I free safety Chris Brown inter· 
cepted a Grooms toss while No. 2 
strong safety and walk-on Dan Cor· 
saro picked off a pass by Kiel. 
The team will have seven more 
practices betore concluding with 
the Blue-Gold contest on April 30. 
~·············~ 
: Thursday-:
. 
~·
: ~e': 
: o'Ose( : 
• k0 : 
~,-. 
i Bookstore i : Extra :
•~...............•• 


The Observer is looking for a few good salesmen to work in the Advertising Dept. Access to car preferred. 
Contact Chris Owen at 239 · 7471 or 239 · 5313 (this week) 
lltilttiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIItHr .......r 
·~·~···........................" 


-~~~ ___,----~-~----~ --~~-~--~-~---~-~---------~--~-~------------------...-:'I----::-::-------:!11-...CQ.. 
Ih~r==========~========================== 
~~4()l~~===========================M=o=n=d=ay='=A=p=ri=l1=8=,=1=98=3===p=a=ge===15 
Bloom County 


~-------,
f*..Y. RQCI<E.RS..JF A
WF.'Rf. BACJ( 1 

''MII<E 61NKL£Y" 15 our
"THIS 15 RCJC.KIN ' 

1Hm,6fvt Ill€ ARIN6, PA~..
CHARMIN' HARMO~ 
~FOONI7 'tWR
H£R£ AT~A., 

oc.H<XX.aA6 AND 1\IRN€17 
1H~ 5rnTION 1AAT 
IT IN TO ex.: CHARMIN' 
UH-01-LH€Y 
B!NKL£Y BAB£l 
UXJK5 UKe; YA GOf 
AN OV£RiiVE UBAARY BOOK II€Rf-.., 
r.€.55€'€-... 
Simon 

MAN of LA MANCHA 
APRIL 21.22 and 23 8p.m-. 
WASHINGTON HALL 
Tiickets are on sale in I he Studenl Union Ticket Office. Also on sale lonighl in the St. Mary's Dining Hall. 

positions 43 Two-handed 4 Beak card game 5 Degrade 44 Positions 6 Upward·. 46 Cache 7 Clamp 47-Rice 8 Psyche Burroughs 
divisions 48 Prepared 9 Red or 49 Crest 
Black 50 Ostrich's 10 Cuts short relative 11 Motivate 51 Fuel abbr. 12 Persia 52 Bandleader 13 Astronaut's Kenton 
org. 55 Recede 19 Nostril 56 Canals in 21 Withered Michigan 24 Part of 57 Language 

speech case: abbr. Custer's fint stand 
STUDENT UNION 


$ • 
PUBLICITY DEPT. NEEDS 

Poster ttangers 
for the 83 · 84 school year. Contact Ann at S.U. 239 · 7605 (Must demonstrate financial need) 
Berke Breathed 

ACR05iS 1 Nine Inches 5 Betteot 
movies 10 Notorious 
Ugandan 14 Spotless 15 Ignore 16 Adriatic 
wind 
17 Nasseror Sadat 18 Brazilian 
dances 20 Resiste,r, 
for sho1rt 21 Secure 22 Gladiator's 
milieu 23 Most sharp 25 Harbor 27 Lesion 28 Railing 32 Brimless 

hat 34 Spurious 35 Brazilian 
tree 36 Astonish 37 Sound 
units 38 Pedant 39 Devoured 40 Exhausted 41 Absence of 
strife 42 Singer 
Clooney 44 Noted 45 Angora and 
Persian 46 Carpart 49 Therefore, 


humorously 52 Headliner 53 Dutch city 54 Danceof 
yore 57 Seaweed 58 Thaw 59 Room and­60 Attired 61 Lessen 62 Skeleton 
items 63 Grantof movies 
DOWN 1 Burning 
particle 2 Soup 3 Ballet 

25 Debra of 
movies 26 Burden 28 Pretty, in 
Scotland 29 Italian 
dance 30 Grandiose 31 Latest 
fashion 32 Despot 33 Director 
Preminger 34 Dutch Africans 37 Petty 
quarrel 38 Equal 40 Diminutive 41 Bartlett 
or Bose 
Campus 
•12?:
15 p.m. -Workshop, "Incentive Systems as Policy Instruments for Alternative Development Strategies," Prof. Denis Goulet, Library Lounge 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Substrate Limitation of Microbial Growth," Dr. Frederic G. Bader, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Biochemical Adaptation to the Environment: Macromolecular Strategies," Prof. George N. Somero, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting ofthe Student Senate, 124 Hayes Healy 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night FUm Series, "The Atomic Cafe," Annenberg Auditorium $2 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, For Students intersted in the London Summer Program, 348 Madeleva Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Is There a Feminist His­tory?" Prof. Anne Perotin-Dumon, Stapelton Lounge 

•7:30 
and 9:30p.m. --,FUm, "Take the Money and Run," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, Sl 

•8 
p.m. -Meeting, For students interested in Rome Summer Program, 348 Madeleva Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "In Memory of Her," Prof. Elisabeth Schussler Fiorenza, Center for Social Concerns 

•8 
p.m.-Concert, Festival of New Music, 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Sisters or: The Balance of Happiness," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 


I 

T.V. Tonight 
7:30p.m.  16  All in the Family  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
8p.m.  16  BoB Hope Special  
22  Archie Bunker's Place  
28  That's Incredible  
34  Frontline  
8:30p.m.  22  Foot in the Door  
9p.m.  22  Alice  
28  ABC Monday Night Movie  
34  Great Performances  
9:30p.m.  22  One Day at A Time  
10p.m.  22  Cagney and Lacey  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Trapper john and Columbo  
28  ABC News Nightline  

, The Far Side 
.... 

Photius 
HOL-Y COW f loll-l.'\T H~PPE!tfD 1?1 Tlft OLD Flf'L[) HOIAS£? 
Jeb Cashin 


Fate 

COI1£' 01'1, MftN, 4£'1 SL(Pf IN WAY TbO LAT£!! 
WAK£ IAf'_II You: Vt 

OIA.T OF ntt ~1\Ct<. Do You. WANI ro SL££P 
YOW( LIFC AWAY? 

COOL If) WILL YA ­
r (OIAL-DN 'f I-lAVE" 
SL.Hi IN TI!Af LON6­


The Daily Crossword 

Friday's Solution 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
4/16/83 



nine-yard toss to tight end Mark before scoring from the three-vard Bavaro. The drive ended with a 44-line. Other key plays in the drive-was yard Mike Johnston field goal. a 2I-yard Kiel to Mike Haywood toss Scott Grooms (7-for-IO, 67 yards, and a I7-yard scamper by Smith. On
Top teams 'get physical,' move on 
one interception) took over for Kid the following 40-yard touchdown in the third series which started drive, Pinkett's 20-yard breakawayByJEFF BLUMB Smith was 6-7 to lead all scorers. down, John Shoe and the Sneakers, was the big play that set up his
from the defense's I 5-yard line. ocr Sports Writer Casey Newell and Mansel Carter The Brick Throwers, and W.E.B.B.'s 
Johnson proceeded to sack Grooms touchdown dive from the one-vard 
added five apiece to aid the winner's Encore. line. .
on a safety blitz on third down, while 
"Let's get physical" easily could cause. BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -The 
contain tackle Greg Dingens forced Smith picked up 57 yards in justhave been the theme of the third In one of the day's more physical teams played on by Gerry Faust and 
Grooms out-of-bounds at the eight carries. But it was his blocking, round of Bookstore Xll played yes­games, Running Rebels edged Team Rich Hunter both quietly dropped 
defense's 30-yard line on fourth especially in the final series for the terday. The day's action was full of 387 by a 2I-19 score. This game out ofthe tournament this weekend, 
down. No. 2 unit, that really stood out. 
rough play, disputes and near fights. went back and forth, the lead chang­Faust's on Saturday, Hunter's on Sun­"I thought the first offense played From the defense's 35 yard line, 
"It was the roughest day so far," ing hands many times, until finally day ... Look for these games to be Smith made back-to-hack rock 'em
well at times and the first defense 
said Commissioner Dave Dziedzic, Running Rebels took a decisive ad­the closest and hardest fought today: played well at times," said Faust. blocks to spring the trailing tailback "because a lot of teams are starting vantage at I8. Tequila White Lightning vs. J.B. and 
"But we've got to be consistent all Ray Carter on successive gains of I2 
to feel that they can make it to the Co. at 6:15 on Stepan 1; Rousseau's the time, on every down." and nine yards. On the next play
Fina!I6. 

Noble Savages vs. Pig Bag 6:15 on Inconsistency was one of the Smith broke free to the outside on an
Bookstore §
"Most ofthe mediocre teams have Stepan 8; and Double Decker Oreo inside handoff and picked up I3
flaws that Faust saw in the 
been weeded out," continued 
XII~~ Cookie vs. Running Rebels also at scrimmage once the first units com­yards to the one-yard line. Lester Dziedzic, "so mostly good teams are 6:1 5 on Stepan 4. So, it looks like the peted their battles against each Flemons. the alternate with Carter left. There are no refs, and a lot is on real basketball fans will be at Stepan 
other. 
the line. You almost have to go tonight at 6: 1 5 See SHOVE, page 14
"The first part of the scrimmage
through a traffic jam to score the last A game such as this one deserved point. I saw at least three or four a unique ending -and have one it near fights today." did. Freshman Ken M<;;Manus hit his 
Lacrosse showdown 
• But the day's action was not with­ninth basket of the game literally out its finer points. Defensive end blindfolded to win the game, as his Kevin Griffith of the football team stocking cap had been pulled down 
ND takes Ohio Wesleyan to limit
made all II ofhis shots in helping his over his eyes as he started to put up team, seeded Play At Your Own Risk, the shot. over Team I36 by a 2I-I4 score. Geritol Express, a team composed By MIKE SULLIVAN ing in the contest. • were attackmen Joe Franklin, Steve Despite being outmanned, Pearsall, and Bob Trocchi, and
No official Bookstore records are entirely of faculty and staff mem­AssistantSports Editor defensemen Justin Shay and Sean
kept but Griffith's II-II shooting is bers, continues to impress those as­however, Notre Dame had a chance 
thought to be a new record for Best sociated with the tournament. The Notre Dame lacrosse team to tie the game, I3-I3, in the last Corscadden. They did what they Shooting Percentage -Most Shots. Yesterday, Geritol advanced to was expecting to have one ofits bet­three minutes. But, after calling a were supposed to, as they ac­ter crowds ofthe year and wanted to timeout to set up an offensive play, counted for 10 of the 12 goals and
It is, for sure, the best shooting that today's fourth round with a decisive 21-14 win over Slim Joe Gruber, put on a good show in its game the Irish wasted their chance as they played a major role in keeping the
anyone associated with the tourna­ment can remember. paced by Paul Winum's eight points. against Ohio Wesleyan, probably the threw the ball away. Wesleyan goal total to I4. best lacrosse team in the Midwest. "We really thought we had a play It was Trocchi who got things
Junior Rick Louthan has now shot Rousseau's Noble Savages, an unseeded team that looks especially And it did not let the fans down. that would score," explained going for the Irish early in the first
an impressive 34-42 in leading his strong, also advanced, beating However, the Irish found them­O'Leary. "Justin (Driscoll) was quarter. He took advantage of a
team, Armed and Dangerous ..., to Freddie Brown ... 21-12. selves a couple of players short and supposed to go to the right and Dan­loose ball in front of the Wesleyan
three victories and into the fourth round_ Louthan was I2-I4 in his Rousseau's will play Pig Bag, a 2I-two goals down when the clock ran ny (Pace) was going to clear out so goal and appeared to make the Wes­18 winner over Mangled Baby out, losing a tough I4-I2 decision. thatJustin could go one-on-one with leyan goalie lose control of the ball
team's latest win, 21-I3 over Kin­Ducks Bleed Again. The interesting "We probably played our best his man. We had set up a double pick and accidentally put it in his own
tuckee. 

thing about the Pig Bag game was game of the year," said Notre Dame away from the ball, so Danny could goal. The fluke goal gave the Irish• Stanford Hall resident Keith coach Rich O'Leary. "But, then, we loop around the outside away from the first of their two leads in the
Sawayda drilled I3 of I4 from the the presence of Father Edward Mal­had to, considering who we were the goal and take the pass. But he just game.
field in helping his team, 257, over loy, C.S.C., Assoc. Provost for the Wesleyan did not take long toFour Human Beings ... by a 21-15 University, on the Mangled Baby playing." couldn't reach the pass." 
Ducks team. Malloy, who once The team they were playing was The turnover seemed to take the make up the early deficit, scoringcount. 
And grad student Ed Hjerpe con­played for Notre Dame while a stu­the 11th-ranked Division Ill team in wind out ofthe Irish as they couldn't two quick goals before Pearsall took the country, which had used its keep up with the more rested Wes­a pass from Franklin to tie the score
tinues to do the job for the seeded dent here, has now played in every
l 
Bookstore tournament, minus one, speed and experience to beat up on leyan players. When Chris Healy at 2-2. Wesleyan went back ahead,
EvenlessJacksonless Five. This time
I Hjerpe connected on nine of nine since its inception 12 years ago. Midwest Lacrosse Association op­scored tor Wesleyan with 1:09 but Franklin scored the first of his There were no real upsets in third ponents. In each of its three pre­remaining, Notre Dame's hopes for a game-high five goals to even things
shots as Evenless beat Last Chance Express 21-11. Last Chance, it 
round action, with all 1 5 of the vious MLA games, Wesleyan had big upset were over. up again. 
f 
I should be noted, played the entire remaining seedings moving on. Bad won by at least 1 I goals. "We relied on three or four A three-goal Wesleyan surge I to the Bone, spurred by Tim It wasn't so easy on Saturday as the players the whole game," said opened the game up for the first
game with just four players.I Double Decker Oreo Cookie also Andree's 10 points, beat Embarrass­Irish kept the game close right up to O'Leary. "We knew we were taking a time, giving the visitors a 6-3 lead at 
I 
I continued in its quest to be ing Stains Come Again 21-8. the end. However, lack of depth gamble that we might not have them the end of the first quarter. The Other seeds advancing to the eventually caught up with them as at full strength at the end of the surge continued into the secondBookstore Champs yesterday, this 
fourth round yesterday were: Love they grew tired at the end and game, but we didn't have a choice." quarter as Wesleyan opened up atime rolling over Eugene, 2I-7. 
and the Shooting Stars, S.W.C., Te­allowed Wesleyan to score an in­The players that he was relying on
Showing the great balance ofDouble See LACROSSE, page 13
surance goal with a minute remain-heavily to keep the team in the gameDecker, lesser known member Pete quila White Lightning III, Show-
t 








