h ,. 
• Senior Bar -page 3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 92 the independent ~tudent nn\ ~paper ~erving norre dame and ~aint mary·~ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1983 
Runoff tomorrow 
Callaghan to face Connolly 
Election Results 
Student Body President/VP 
Callaghan/Prevoznik  2028  46.6  
Connolly/Leous  1287  29.6  
Salvador/Carlin  1031  23.7  
Campbell Boycott  
Yes  2442  54.8  
No  2011  45.2  
Unilateral Freeze  
Yes  1645  36.6  
No  2853  63.4  
Senate District 1  
Flounder Bertino  367  37.4  
Rob Brisson  310  31.6  
Bridget Griffin  164  16.7  
Bill Smith  141  14.4  
Senate District 2  
AlHank  391  34.2  
Bob Riley  751  63.8  
Senate District 3  
Susan Hoelscher  323  27.8  
Dave McAvoy  507  43.6  
Alison Yurko  333  28.6  
Senate District 4  
Mark Boone  391  43.6  
R. Michael Quinn  505  56.4  
Senate District 5  
Rich Spolzino  72  55.8  
Rose Desloge  57  44.2  

Election coverage continues inside today's issue. See the related stories about yesterday's elections, tomor­
See election 

row's elections at Saint Mary's and tomorrow's runoff.
coverage: 

• 
Dziedzic column ..................... p. 2 

• 
Dorm results............................. p. 3 

• 
Soph. officers............................ p. 4 

• 
Campbell PR tips.................... p. 6 


dictates were good friends. 

When asked what he thought his chances were in the run-off, Connol­ly responded, "About 46.7 to 29.6." He added that he thought the tur­nout was helped by the referendum votes on the proposed nuclear freeze and on FLOC's proposed con­tinuation of the Campbell boycott. 
Brian Callaghan agreed with Con­
nolly's statement that all the 
candidates were good friends and 
added that he thought the competi­
tion was "clean and fair." Callaghan 
said that he was pleased with the 
results of the elections, but said that 
he and Prevoznik would have to do a 
bit oflast minute campaigning to get 
the votes in halls in which they did 
not do well. 

Both Connolly and Callaghan urged students to cast their votes tomorrow. The run-offelections will be held in the same manner as the general election. Balloting for on­campus undergrads will be held from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. in residence halls. For graduate and off. campus students balloting will be held from 11:30 a.m. to 4:15p.m. in LaFortune. 


Future bilateral vote possible 
Freeze referendum defeated 2 to 1 
By CATHY PAX tory to students realizing the against and 75 for the unilateral 
difference between a unilateral and freeze. a bilateral freeze. "We knew from the beginning The referendum passed in the Off­that it would be a long battle," said 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
The unilateral freeze referendum was defeated by almost a two-to-one Campus district by the largest mar­Chris Beem, chairman of the freeze gin, with 100 voting for the freeze coalition. He still feels his organiza­and 75 against it. The freeze also tion's role in the campaign was suc­margin in voting held across the 

campus yesterday. The final tally had won in Badin by three votes and in cessful, "Our goals were outside of
2853 votes, or 63.4 percent, voting against versus 1645 votes, or 36.6 
the Old College by two. The freeze winning and losing; we wanted to percent, for. 
was defeated by narrow margins in provide a forum tor education and The Two-Campus Nuclear Freeze Pasqueljlla East where the discussion." ~ Coalition expressed disappointment 
referendum failed by three votes -Students are more aware of the in the failure of the unilateral freeze 
and in Lyons, where it lost by two. realities of nuclear war now, Beem referendum, but still believe they 
In all other dorms the referendum believes. They are beginning to failed by considerable margins. The realize that the Americans share most resounding defeat was in Flan­responsibility for the arms race, "We were successful in changing student 

opinion. College Republican presi­ner. where. 225 students voted just can't point a finger at the Rus­
dent Mark Lvnch ~ttributerl the vic­sians." Beem feels "we (the coali­tion) were incredibly successful in this aspect."

FLOC boycott passes 
Coalition workers found that most students did not even question the concept of a bilateral freeze.


by slim vote margin 
Through the unilateral campaign, the freeze coalition "made the 

ByJOHN BURCHETT is indicative of the farm workers bilateral freeze a conservative posi­News staff conviction th'at they will not be 
tion," Beem said. silenced," said Merriman. "Although 
"When the College Republicans

The referendum on the continua­Campbell refuses to listen to the 
support a bilateral freeze, well, that's tion of the FLOC-sponsored boycott farm workers needs, they will not 
something," said Beem. Several of Campbell products on campus give up. They will continue their 
freeze coalition members expressed was passed yesterday by a narrow struggle until victory. As concerned 
a hope that the College Republicans 2,H2 to 2,011 margin. students, we will continue our sup­
will sponsor a bilateral freeze The boycott is part of a port ofthe farm workers. This is only 
referendum on the next ballot. nationwide effort by the Farm Labor the beginning." 
Mark Lynch, president of the Col­Organizing Committee to obtain The vote was close, with FLOC's 
lege Republicans refused to com­collective bargaining for migrant greatest support coming from the 
ment on this possibility. Many workers with the major tomato women's dorms on campus. Farley, 
members of the College processors. For the last three years, Breen-Phillips, Walsh, Lewis, Badin, 
Republicans would support a Notre Dame has honored that Lyons, P.W. and P.E. together regis­
bilateral freeze however, according boycott and not allowed the sale of tered 742 votes for the continuation 
to Lynch. any Campbell products on campus. of the boycott, and only 290 against. 
Lynch commended his organiza­The results of yesterday's vote will The men's dorms, on the other 
tion on the "good job" they did in continue that boycott. hand, generally voted against the 
informing the student body.Tom Merriman, the head of the referendum. Holy Cross, Keenan, 
Students "knew all along how FLOC support group on campus was Alumni, Old College, Howard, Mor­
they would vote on a unilateral pleased with the outcome of the risey, Fisher, and the Off-Campus 
freeze," said Lynch_ The College vote. students voted for the bo) -:ott, 
Republicans only "informed the stu­"I want to thank the student body while Carroll, St.· Ed's, Sorin, 
dents, we did not convince them," for giving us the opportunity to Cavanaugh, Dillon, Grace, 
he explained. share with them our commitment to Pangborn, Flanner and Zahm voted 
Beem believes that Saint Mary's the farm workers. We believe this against it. The vote in Stanford 
has a chance to do what the Notre victory is very important because it resulted in a tie. 
Dame community did not. 

By PATRICK MULLEN 
News Staff 
Brian Callaghan and Peggy Prevoznik will he running against Tim Connolly and Jim Leous in tomorrow's Student Body Presi­dent/Vice President run-off elec­tions. Callaghan and Connolly, who received 46.7 and 29.6 percent of the vote respectively, will par­ticipate in the run-off because neit­her of the two candidates received 50 percent of the vote. The other Student Body President/Vice Presi­dent ticket ofLiza Salvador and Mike Carlin received 23.7 percent of the vote. 
The results ofthe vote, which was counted hy officials of the Om­budsman, were posted in LaFortune at 12 o'clock last night. The results showed the Callaghan/Prevoznik ticket with a solid lead going into the run-off with 2,028 votes to Connolly and Leous's 1,287 and to Salvador and Carlin's 1,031. 
In what John Quinn, Om­budsman's Election Coordinator, termed "an incredible turnout," 65 percent of the Notre Dame student body cast votes for the three tickets. Quinn said this turnout is con­siderable when compared to last year's 49 percent turnout. Both Cal­laghan and Connolly expressed pleasure in this turnout and said they hoped for a similar if not better turnout in tomorrow's run-off. 
Tim Connolly said he was pleased with the results of the election, but said that he and Leo us would have to do a little bit of campaigning before tomorrow. He said that both of his opposing tickets were "good, tick­ets" and that he and all the other can­


Wednesday, February 9, 1983-page 2 



ews Brie/§ 
Bv The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
The Hall Presidents Council he!ct a brief meeting last night on the third floor of the Student Health Center. The lame-duck council was asked to push for support of the upcom­ing Notre Dame womens' basketball game against national cham­pions Louisiana Tech. The presidents also discussed an amendment to insure attendence at their weekly meetings. The meeting was one of the last ofthe selllester for the members of this counciL Elections have begun to choose new hall officers. -The Obsen•er 
Little Sisters' Weekend at Saint Mary's is being planned for the weekend of April 15-1 7. The event will coincide with Notre Dame's Little Siblings' Weekend. Committees are being formed to plan activities for the Saint Mary's weekend. Interested students should contact chairman Michele Manion at 284-5533. ­
The Observer 

A Cap'n Crunch sit-in was staged in South Dining Hall at last night's dinner. After waiting in line to fill their bowls with the revered sugar-coated cereal, students found that the Cap'n Crunch bin was empty. Refusing to accept this, more than a dozen students sat cross-armed, bowls in hand, blocking the cereal table until their demands were met. Ten minutes later, the harried NO Foodservice employees produced four large bags of Cap'n Crunch. The supply was exhausted in a matter ofminutes. "Now is the winter of our discontent," said long-time Cap'n Crunch supporter Donald Groble, "Froot Loops just don't cut it. Give me the Cap'n or give me death."-The Observer 
Rep. Morris K. Udall ofArizona has decided not to seek the Democratic presidential nomination. knowledgable sources ,aid late yesterday. Cdall was to announce his decision at a news conference in Wat;hington today, the sources said. A member of the House since 1961, Udall ran an unsuccessful campaign against Jimmy Carter and other Democrats in 1976, narrowly losing anum­ber ofprimary elections to Carter, who went on to the White House. Since last summer, Udall has travelled through 22 states testing the political waters for potential interest for a 1984 campaign. One drawback has been that Udall, 59, suffers from Parkinson's Disease, a gradually debilitating ailment. But a panel of doctors told Udall, a former pro basketball player, that he would be physically capable of serving as president despite the affliction. The sources said in the end Udall decided not to run because ofa relatively late start against more organized candidates like former Vice President Walter Mondale and a half-dozen others who have either announced formal­ly that they will run or intend to. -AP 
Hitachi Ltd., one ofJapan's largest industrial companies, pleaded guilty yesterday in San Franciso along with two employees to chargss that they conspired to send computer secrets stolen from IBM to Japan. In exchange for the company's plea and payment ofa S10,000 fine, the federal government said there would be no further criminal charges against Hitachi, its officers or employees stemming from the highly controersial industrial espionage case. Hitachi's board of directors authorized the guilty pleas, company lawyer Peter Fleming II. While Hitachi's top manage­ment still maintains it "had no knowledge" of a conspiracy, Fleming said the company was determined to show the "greatest respect for this court ...and nation which it represents." Hirachi, with 1113.5 billion in annual sales, and nearly a dozen of irs employees were caught lase summer in an FBI undercover operation aimed ar rhe elecrronics industry in rhe Silicon Valley, named for the silicon chips that are the basis ofincegrared elcronic circuits, used for such rhings as computer memories. -AP 
The Reagan administration said yesterday ir hopes the report by a special Israeli commission into rhe Beirut massacre will nor aggravare the serious deadlock over withdrawal of Israeli troops from Lebanon. "We don'r see why the impacr of rhe report, whatever ir may be. should effect the Lebanon negotiations," said Alan Romberg, the Stare Deparrmenr's deputy spokesman. "The issues are urgent and should be addressed in rhe inrerests of Lebanese srability and sovereignty and in Israel's inrerests as well," Romberg said. Administrarion officials would not speculate publicly on what effect the report would have on Prime Minister Menachem Begin's governmenr -and thus on rhe negotiarions. Bur one oft1cial said the resignation of Israeli Defense Minister Ariel Sharon would probably not be enough to alter Israel's srand in the calks. The report said Sharon -a close ally of Begin -was personally responsible for rhe slayings in Palestinian refugee camps lase September and should resign. Israeli radio said Sharon was refusing to quit, and quesrions were being raised in Israel about wherher Begin's government would fall. -AP 
Truckers in some areas wem back on the road wearing black armbands yesterday as a violenr srrike by independenc owner-operators continued to wind down wirh only an occasional gunshot in rhe dark. Mike Parkhurst, leader of the lndependenr Truckers Association, hinted during a meetmg with rhree congress­men chat he would call off rhe shutdown if Congress makes a "goodwill commitment" to address rhe truckers' grievances, rhe lawmakers said. Since the srrike began Feb. I, there have been more than I,200 aces of violence in 38 scares, with one driver shot w dearh, 63 people injured and 9 3 arrested. Parkhursr and Bill Scheffer, the organization's vice president, mer for two hours with Reps. Peter 
H. Kosrmayer, 0-Pa., Douglas Applegate, D-Ohio, and Ed Jenkins, 0-Ga. -AP 
Mostly cloudy and cool tomorrow. High in low and mid 30~. Cloudy and cold ronighr. Low in low and mid 20s. Chance of snow developing tomorrow. High in upper 20s and low 30s. -AP 
And after the voting's done 
Campus elecrions have come and gone (barring runoffs) for another year, and soon a new set ofsrudent leaders will emerge. Once again, rhe campaigns were fairly dull. For the most part, candidates discussed the same old issues: social space, cooperation wirh rhe ad­minisrration, laundry, ere. 
While rhese issues are imporrant and should be oftop prioriry to the new leaders, they have been addressed every year by different student leaders, with few, if any, resulrs. 
Therefore, I am pointing out some problems that many students face frequenrly. These are problems that could be easily alleviated if the student governmenr used rhe resources ir has available. Lirle, if any, attention was given ro these problems during the recent cam­paign. 
I. Most of rhe older buildings on campus are eirher too hot or wo cold in rhe winrer. The sream-heating sysrems simply are inadequate. 
The problem is especially in rhe older

pronounced end in rhe Spring, however.
MR. ffESt()AJI. A ~ew
dorms. Residenrs are forced because 0-6 is locared ar the to open windows in the M Yer t.WAVDRE~ south-east end of a swamp. middle of the night lO lower After the firsr chaw, cars can

ISSUtS .. 

the temperarure. Mosr be seen sinking in mud. heating sysrems, like those 
It wouldn't rake much for in the newer dorms, have I the University to solve this rhermosrats which constant­problem. Paving the lot ly monitor the temperature wouldn'r solve the swamp and adjust the heat level. problem. hut would be a The conrraptions used in the major improvement. older dorms, however, are 3. The campus radio ~ta­unpredictable. They seem to tion, WSND-AM, plays good start and stop on their own music. The management 
whim. does a decent job of updar­
This situation makes ing the music library and sleeping somewhat of a offering special program­hazard. Residenrs are never ming co the Norre Dame 
sure if they will wake up in the Mojave Deserr or the Alaskan Tundra. Therefore, heavy blankets muse be handy to prevent frosrbire and/or pneumonia. (Heavy blankets muse be provided by Grandma because rhe University offers only lightweight blankets.) 
Residents of rwo-room suites are often caught in the middle_ While one room contains a hyperacrive radiator, rhe orher contains an anemic one. The result is obvious. 
Overactive radiawrs can be murder on rhe skin. An adequate supply of Vaseline lncensive Care or other such moisturizing !orion muse be on hand to prevem severe chapping. 
Perhaps these radiarors should be markered as alarm clocks. Many studems complain char they are awakened ar 6 a.m. daily by loud clanging. 
2. If rhe Surgeon General thinks that cigarette smoking is hazardous to one's health, he should try parking in lor 0-6. Locared behind rhe ROTC Building, 0-6 is the only convenient parking lor for South Quad 

The Observer 
"THE WINDS OF WAR" 
Design Editor... . ......... fuhrer Illig Design Assistant ......... Ambassador Clark l.ayout Staff. .. ... Drop the Homh Conrov 
Commander's Mistress Burke 
Tvpesetters...... ... Classified Reggie Daniel Captain AI Novas 
News Editor.. .......... Commander-in-Chief \\1orscheh CojJ1• Editor ..... ... Dictator Dirkerl-1 
(outranks C-in-C) ND Day Editor .... Private fi"t Class jane Pantil .V,fCDay Editor... .. ... Colonel Pettc,., Features Layout. .......... G.l.joe: Producer Wrench 
Editorials Layout.... .. .. l.t.l.lhhy Brown Sports Copy Editor..... Rich 'I'm checking 
our ofthi~ war' O'Connor 
T)•pists... .... Mary"Ali MacGraw" Torchia Ad Design........... . .... Paul Slota "Sergeant Paul Schultz" Photographer Goody Two Shoes & 'Up at 'em· Adam Ant Guest Appearances...................The Winds The Sweat, The Observer Mooch, Chris "I'm still waiting for Col. Klink to 
make an appearance" Needles 
Suzanne  and  David,  Another  Polish  
Prince  
Quincy,  Troy's  new  shoes,  Unmade  

chocolate chip cookies 
and The Gruel King 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vaca11on penods The Observer IS publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt, Mdry s Col lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year t$15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 15 a member of The Associated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pdld dt Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 



David Dziedzic 
Executive News Editor 
Inside Wednesday. 

residenrs. 

D-6 is not paved. Irs surface consists ofsoft gravel and is laden wirh pothole~. ll is murder on shock absorbers and wheel alignments. 
Winter is the worse season co park in D-6. Because it isn't paved, it cannot be plowed. Snow piles up all win­ter long, making navigarion nearly impossible. In order ro leave rhe lot, one must rush up a slippery incline. :vtany cars can't get up enough momentum and slide backward time after time. 
The problem does not 
community. However. many students couldn't even show you where the sralion is locared on rhe radio dial. 
The starion ( AM-640, by the way) operates on carrier current, which means char ir enters your radio through rhe electrical outlet. The problem is, however, chat many of the transformers are broken. Many dorms. therefore, cannot even tune in the station. For those who can, sratic is usually more audible than music. 
WSNO needs more money if the srudents are to be offered a viable alternative to the Top-40 hies on t:-93 or WXMJ. 
These are only rhree of many small problems or in­conveniences facing Notre Dame students. I suggesr that the new student body leaders direct their attention toward these areas and prove chat studenr government can make a positive contribution lO our community. 

????????????????????????????????????
.................................... 
Are You Registered for the Draft? 
Are You Concerned About the Possibility of Being Drafted into the 
Military? 

Do You Think You Might Be A Conscientious Objector? 
Would You Like to Know What Being A Conscientious Objector Entails? 
If These Questions Are of Concern to You, Then You Should Inquire About 
Registration & Draft Counseling 
at Campus Ministry Badin all***239-5242 
The Observer Wednesday, February 9, 1983-page 3 


Part-time administrator proposed for SeniorBar 

By MARK E. WORSCHEH 
Assistant News Editor 
Senior Bar will hire a part-time ad­ministrator to oversee daily opera­tions and to provide continuity from one year to the next in a plan rroposed by the current managers of Senior Bar and James Roemer, dean ofstudents. 
The plan still needs the approval of father James Van Wolvlear. vice president for student affairs, and Thomas Mason, vice president for business affairs. 
"From a business standpoint. it 
makes sense to get a person in there 
to run it from year to year. This per­
son would know about warranties 
and who to call if something breaks," 
said Kevin Woods, current general 
manager ofSenior Bar. 
It is a "tremendous responsibility to turn the bar over to someone else each year." This new post would "take care of that kind of continuity problem," said Roemer. 
The decision to recommend the hiring of a part-time administrator was reached Monday afternoon in a meeting of Roemer, Woods, the three other managers and Ken Milani, an associate professor of ac­countancy who has assisted Senior Bar for the past seven years. 
The idea of hiring some sort of 
manager or administrator has arisen 
many times in the past few years, 
especially after plans were an­
nounced to build a new facility, said 
Woods. Roemer said that last year 
the thought of hiring a full-time 
professional manager. was con­
sidered, but the thought "faded 
away after seeing the good job ofthis 
year's crew." 
Both Roemer and Woods em­phasized that the reason for such an administrator lies in the practicality and sensibility of the job, not in the need for better management or less student control ofoperations. 
"Our concern was how much control this person would have. This 
person should not be running the 
bar," said Woods. 
The administrator would "take 
care of the day-to-day opera­
tions ...and would deal with beer 
distributors and Coke distributors," 
said Roemer. He envisioned the 
position as an afternoon or 20-hour­
a-week job. 
"The student general manager 
would be in the bar at night," he 
added, "It would remain a senior­
run Senior Bar." 
Both also dismissed the role that 
profit-making had in the decision. 
The bar is "not a money-making or­
ganization," but rather a learning ex­
perience and a service, according to 
Woods. 
"The University has never looked on the Senior Bar as a place to make money," concurred Roemer. 
"I don't think an administrator 
will increase revenues. Prot1t is not 
the reason at all" for the change, said 
Roemer. 
Roemer and Woods both said that 
the bar is not losing money. "We've 
alreadv made more monev this vear 
than all of last year," Wo~ds st~ted, 
adding that net income as a percent­
age of sales is up over last year. He 
also predicted the bar will finish the 
year in the black. 
The administrator the bar is 
looking for is "someone who's 
young, relates to the students well, 
and knows what's going on," said 
Woods. Roemer agreed, saying the 
bar was not looking for "a full-time 
professional." 
Woods said that the new position would eliminate the need for one of the four student managers. The posi­tion of inventory manager would disappear while the general manager, business manager and club manager would remain. 
Applications for managerial posi­tions will be available soon for the 1983-84 school year, and Roemer said that the managers will probably be selected before the search for an administrator begins. 

Three elected to Senate·, two await run-off tomorrow 
By TOM MOWLE 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
Bob Riley, R. Michael Quinn, and Rich Spolzino were elected to the Student Senate in Districts 2, 4, and 5 yesterday. 
Rob Bertino and Flounder Brisson in District 1 and Dave MeAvoy and Alison Yurko in District 3 will meet in run-offelections tomorrow. 
Riley, a Keenan junior, swept the North Quad by a 2-1 margin. AI Hank, his opponent, only won Cavanaugh, his home dorm, with 56 percent of the vote. Rilev won Keenan 225-19. . 
Quinn received 56.4 percent of the votes in the Tower Quad. While Mark Boone won the Pasquerillas by slim margins, Quinn took both his home dorm and Grace. 
Spolzino won in the Off-Campus voting with 55.8 percent of the 129 ballots cast. 
Bertino edged Brisson, 367-310, in District 1, but as neither can­didate won 50 percent of the 982 votes, they will compete in a run-off election tomorrow. Their op­ponents in the four-candidate race, Bridget Griffin and Bill Smith, won in 
see SENATE, page 4 


..,_•...,.... • .,...,...,.........,.._..._..... _ _,.....,...,._.._._.........__...,....,._......... __...__.......,..........,._,..., 
~ What are you doing for Spring Break? come... ~ ~ .,~, \\\· \)0\'1 ~ r ~·~~~0 .... ..,_ntO .•0·. •
\ y-_• AQ ., y n '-1 t \.Qt~ ,\'(\\0(\ \ .,. S~\ \{\y "'--~ J ~ (.0' \UOe(\\ v sO(\(\q "'::. ~~ ) 
\ -1\X\eS :lteaiDbOa ,~
sQo(\ 

[ . . steamboat springs, colorado ~ l Trip mcludes: [l 
~ 5 fun days and 6 wild nights Wine and Cheese Party ~ 
t Luxury-condominiums with fireplaces and jacuzziis • 
i Quality equipment rentals for a low orice St. Patrick's Day Party ~ 
~ Join in the :un--stop by the S.U. and sign up!! ~ 
Deadline for signups is Feb. 11 ~ 
,..,......,.............--.~..............~~._......,.._.......... __.~ ..................,....,......,.....,.. 
E. Michael jones spoke last night in the Right to Life. About thir~v people attended to lis­LaFortune Little Theatre at a general meeting of ten to jones' comments. (Photo by RachelBlount) 
Results By 

SBP RESULTS 
Dormitory 
c.;~ 
-1 1r 
-, 
H-1 II S 
6"" 
-II 
-12 
-IH 6H HO 225 84 
Ill 85 71 51 18 77 89 60 
I-ll 15"' "7{) 
....., 
61 2028 46.7 
2 S-1 
-, 
S-1 
2~ 
-16 
59 
S I 
]() 
If-I 52 
12 
68 22 13 101 60 127 42 "'8 62 5"' 105 55 
5"" 
56 1287 29.6 

r...,........................... ........~·...,.. ........
~ ~ l

~ COUNSELINE 
~ A new service to the ND community \ [ 239-7793 i 
l HOURS: 4-9pm Mon.-Thurs. l 
~ Starting Date: Wed., Feb. 9, 1983 ~ 
~ Counseline is a free, confidential ~ 
• telephone service that offers [ ~ professsionally taped materials that l ~cover a wide variety of student concerns~ 
~TAPE NO. TITLE ~ 
[ 1 Friendship Building [
l7 f
Dealing with Co,lstructive Criticism · ]8 Dealing with Anger l [ 9 Understanding Jealousy & r ]9 Understanding Jealousy & How to l [ Deal with It [ J10 How to Say "No" l [ 16 Becoming Open to Others ~ l18 Dating Skills • ~ 30 Anxiety & Possible Ways to Cope with It \ 
• 32 How to Deal with Loneliness [ ~ 33 How to Handle Fears l [ 35 Building Self-Esteem & Confidence [ ]37 Relaxing Exercises ] [ 38 Coping with Stress \ ]39 Female Sex Role-Changes & Stress • ~ 44 Learning to Accept Yourself \ 
[ 61 What is Therapy & How to Use It [ ]83 How to Cope with a Broken Relationship] [ 85 Understanding Grief \ ]90 Helping a Friend • [ 160 Early Signs of an Alchohol Problem [ l161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking 
f 

]402 Self-Assertiveness ] ~ 431 What Is Depression \ 
, :~; ~~;!~~~~~a~i!hL~:P~~~:ion ~ 
J 478 Becoming Independent from Parents • [.479 DealingwithAichoholicParents [l 491 Suicidal Crisis l ~ 492 Recognizing Suicidal Potential in Others\ 
~ 493 Helping Someone in a Suicidal Crisis ~ 
~ ~ 
[ Counseline is a completely anonymous r ] service offered by the Counseling & l \ Psychological Services Center. UNO \ 
J For Further Info or Assistance • ~Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9-5 \ ~ i 
~ \
L j.
·~-....,.. ........-~.....,.........~...... 
UNILATERAL 
CAMPBELL 

FREEZE 
BOYCOIT 
~~

~~/~o 
~0 

I 61 
s 
H
~ 
9S
12H
160 

6"" S6 
SH 
21
~5 

HO H5 
106 
H2 

S5 -IH 
112 
I-ll 

6"" -10 
H6 
62 
SH
72 
S.1 

56 6H 
62 
70
-15 

6"" H7 
109 
109 

106 76 
112 
H8 
87 

125 1--i2 
102""' 
Ul
95 
67 

109 59 
IS4 
109 

108 57 
80
126 

2S 5"7 
84
54 
143
IHH 
95 
.p 

66 51 
74
98 

69 81 
71
94 

46 "78 
116
83 
]()~
112
141 

102 ..,5 
)I 
44
120 

ISO 121 
149
225 

19) 74 
ISH
241 
)8
114
77 

54 100 
101
79
53 
56
7) 
114 
l 

2011 36.6 
2442
1645 2853 
63.4 
I 
OLD COLLEGE ALUMNI CARROLL HOLYCROSS LEWIS ST.EDS SORIN 
WALSH BP CAVANAUGH 
FARLEY 
KEENAN STANFORD ZAHM BADIN DILLON FISHER HOWARD 
LYONS 
MORRIS~EY 
PANGBORN FLANNER GRACE PE PW 0-C TOTAL PERCENT 

~~~
~ ~ 
.2 


~H 
"'H 19 
ss 
I"" 2H 
12 
IIH 22 SH 
H 
so 
52 J7 
so 
28 
5 
-18 
so 
25 "'2 81 -1-i 50 36 1031 23.7 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 
SPRING BREAK INDAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 11 -20, 1983 
Arrllnt-tm~nts by ECHO TRA ~EL, INC. MC/$257/F 
N.D. SIX PER ROOM TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
Round rnp motor coach lransport&IJOn """modern highwa)· coa.:h~ ro Daytona Beach. Aonda leu101 Fnday, March II. 

• 
Se\en mghn accommodiltronsallheexcnmg Plaza Hole\ of


$185 

Ua~·rona Beach Localed .u 600 Sorth Atlantic Ave .• rt ~the mo~t demanded hotel on the ~trrp at tl\at time 
• A trul) grear ~chedulc or acuvmes mcludmJ our famow paol deck parues and belly flop conrnt. 
FOl "R PER ROO.\/ • Op11omal ucursrons av<ulabk to Disney World. Epcot, and M:H:rlll other allractrun~ 
• 
\umerous Dar and restaurant d1scount1. 

• 
The ~er\lcei of full lime I ravel repreientauvcJ


$199 

• 
"'It ta.\e~ and graiUIUes 

• 
Ciuar.snlc:ed lutchc:nc:ltc: or oceanfront au1lable at lmLlJ o~ddrlwnal charge t4 per room only) 


A QUALITY TRIP-A LOWPRICE-A GREAT TIME 
Ihe l'l.ud Hut.: I locateu nttht m the m1ddle of the \tnp. ~~ dciJmtcl) the place: 10 be dunna 
•rlflntt torcd~ ~,._ ctn\nnc ""h" h.s' been to Da>tona The: hotel hu a pool. b11 pany deck.. r.:,tauro~nr tuwr ho~n. color I\. au .·ondtlloned ronm' •nd pl~nty of aClt\rtuet Ptrtum ar~ .11 o~ilo~hle \\here \Oll \1~n wp Our motor coacheiare nothrnJ but the htshcsr quaht~ hl&hway .,,..,he' '>' .:.sl"' tt•'e ~ou mnree.\lt.t\ \l.llh our rnp thanan~oneelsc Don"! blow rtand aoon ct lmm 1.1Uilh1) tnp LAST HAR o•'ER 8,(}00 PEOPI.E £."1/JOYED THIS TRIP. 
SIG' l'P 'OW AT THE TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.-FRI. 10 AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 
The Observer Wednesday, February 9, 1983-page 4 


Don Temple stomps on garbage in a dumpster at his father-in­law's Lynnwood, Wash., home after ending his search for a win­ning S/0,000 Washington state lottery ticket he threw away by mistake. Temple and his relatives searched for three and a half days. ( APPhoto) 
---------------------------------------~ 
The One and Only 1983 Senior Formal 
n The Main Event " April 9, 1983 Bids go on sale the beginning of March Start making plans now Seniors 
for the Main Event of 1983 
~--------------------------------------­

Attention Off-Campus Student 
Meet and talk about your concerns with Helen A. Manuszak, candidate for Democrat 4th district City Council 
Tonight 7pm at the Capri Restaurant 
(Corner of Ironwood &Edison) BRING A FRIEND 
SOUTH BEND AVENUE STORE KEG SPECIALS 
7&7 Special

Budweiser 1/2 29.99 
750ml 7 Crown 
Miller 1/2 29.99 
217 UP
eneric 1/2 24.99 
$5.99

ichelob 1/2 37.99 Save $3 
Deposit: Keg $6 Tap $19 
Quart Specials
RUM &COKE 

Castillo Rum 7.50 Budweiser 8.99 21 Coke Old Milwaukee 7.29 Miller 8.99
$5.49 

Editor's note: The following is the last ofa three-part series describing the candidates for Saint Mary's Class Offices. Today's segment profiles candidates for Sophomore Class Offices. 
By ANNE MONASTYRSKI 
Campus Campaign Reporter 

Informing students abroad of campus activities and better organizing class events figure in the platforms of the three tickets campaigning for Sophomore Class Officers. 
The ticket ofAnne Marie Kollman, president; Sheila Flood, vice presi­dent; Gretchen Wroblewski, treasurer; and Kathi Hartweger, secretary are campaigning with the slogan, "Catch that Sophomore Spirit." 
Kollqtan said they want to "keep in close contact with students going abroad." Sending newsletters to stu­dents abroad wi\1 keep them in­formed of campus activities, Kollman said. 
Kollman's ticket intends to "keep the unity" ofthe class by distributing a newsletter to sophomores on campus. 
Kollman is vice chairperson ofthe Freshman Council, a member of the Housing Committee, Campus Minis­try and is involved in the Adopt-a­Nun program. 
Flood is social commissioner of the Freshman Council. 
Wroblewski is treasurer of the Freshman Council and is involved in Campus Ministry. 
Hartweger is the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's representative for the Freshman Council. 
Campaigning with the slogan, 'Shoot for the Stars" is the ticket consisting of Amy Bertucci, presi­dent; Anne Karnatz, vice president; Sandy Knezevich, treasurer; and Debbie Buchan, secretary. 
Bertucci's ticket stresses "better planning" for dances. "We want to make it more of a class dance and have everyone involved in every stage ofthe activity,"said Bertucci. 
Bertucci said her ticket wants to "bridge the gap" between freshman and sophomore year by sponsoring many class activities with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Ideas include a ski trip and class mass. 
Bertucci plays clarinet tor , the Notre Dame Marching B,and. Knezevich is a member ofthe Regina Hall Council and as:.istant to a com­missioner on the Council. 
Buchan is a member of the Stu­dent Admissions Council and a student assistant to the Religion 
continuedfrom page 3 
their home dorms, Lewis and Holy Cross, but fared poorly in other dorms.· 
Bertino's leading margin was boosted by his victory in Alumni, where both he and Brisson live. Bris­son won in Carroll and Sorin, while the vote in St. Edward's and Walsh was narrowly in Bertino's favor. 
Yurko enters her run-off with McAvoy by a 10-vote margin over fellow Lyons sophomore Susan Hoelscher. McAvoy received 43.6 percent of the vote, mainly because 
The Oar House Cold Beer& 

Liquor Carry Out Ti113 am 

ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
EVERY DAY 2 for 1 Drinks 4·7 
with Homemade Food & Snacks 
"Snake Bite" Special...$1 every Thursday • 
~~~~~~~~~~~·~~~~· 
WittlKt}igltt& nftltt<!Iastlt 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry &Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Haircut only $6 with coupon 
54533 Terrace Lane;· 
South Bend (Across from 

(Hair must be washed day of cut)
Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 

272·0312 277·1691
SAT. 8:30·5:30 

Sophomore officers election 
Organizing figures in SMC tickets 
Department. 

On the third ticket are Julie Har­mon, president; Mary Sauer, vice president; Theresa Hardy, treasurer; and janet Biegal, secretary. 
Harmon's platform highlights service to the class through ac­tivities. Harmon said experience is the key. "We want to work for the class. We feel we can do this from experience," Harmon said. 
"Don't look us over, we're the lucky clover," is their slogan. The ticket promotes fundraising events to donate to local charities. Said Har­mon, "We'd like to gear our ideas toward class involvement." 
Class picnics, shopping trips, and holiday dances are some ideas. 
Harmon is secretary of Regina Hall Council and a member of the Student Admissions Coundl. Both Sauer and Biegal are members of the Student Admbsions Council. Hardy is a member of theJudicial Board. 
• Senate 
ofhis strong home support in Dillon, where he took 90 percent of the bal­lots cast. 
Hoelscher easily defeated Yurko in Lyons, but Yurko's support in the other South Quad dorms led to her narrow victory. 
Riley thanked "all the guys in Keenan for coming through, and the girls' dorms, and Stanford for not let· ting the rivalry interfere." He vowed to "get the Senate back on its feet and make it a voice students are proud of." 
Quinn also thanked "everyone who supported me." He "hopes to communicate with the Quad in the future to find out what they want." 
Spolzino was "glad to have won," and said he believes he "can do a lot to help make the Senate a better body." He commented, "I will try mybest to work with the President and the Senate to accomplish real goals this year." 
Bertino was "happy to make the 
run-off and pleased with the results, 
especially in Alumni; hut obviously I 
have a lot more work to do." 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! Omega Productions, Inc. 
is now opening their 
-Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type of music for any type of event. Parties are our specialty. Custom music programming is availabl~ Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 
t?ooVJ 
CASfDf 
$1199 
24 CAMS.___-=-. LABAnS 
lEER OULE 
$1Q99
CASE OF 24 IOTTLES 
·S ­
PR!CES GOOD THRU SAT., 

FEB. 12th  
·~  2.99  
"'  3.99  
"'  2.99  
·~  7.99  
·~  4.99  
~~  2.49  
·~  4.99  
Ill  5.99  
SORIA VERMOUTH  Ill  1.49  

-----------------~-------­
The Observer Show off new facilities 
Counseling Center announces open house 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
AssistantNews Editor 

Improved facilities and reports of new and expanded services are two subjects which will highlight con­versation at an open house for the recently restructured Counseling and Psychological Services Center. 
The event is scheduled for Friday from I to 5 p.m. in the center's offices on the third floor of the Stu­dent Health Center. 
"The purpose ofthe open house is to show off our facilities which are now complete," said Michael Mond, acting director of C&PSC. "The Open House is open to everyone ­students, faculty, administration, and staff. We want to give everyone the opportunity to meet our staff, to get to know them. We hope they'll 
also share their views of how the 
C&PSC can better serve them." 

The comprehensive mental 
health agency, which offers profes­mented this summer and made ef­fective with the start of the 1982-83 academic year. 
The C&PSC has a staff of six full­
time professionals, a consulting 
psychiatrist, and eleven advanced 
doctoral students in the counseling 
psychology program. 

"The merger is running smooth­
ly," Mond said. "The two services 
have integrated fairly well, and by 
combining both efforts we have 
gathered . and centered more 
resources." 

Last Monday, Mond met with the Student Senate to inform them ofthe Open House and the changes in C&PSC. He also met with the Stu­dent Health Advisory Council last Wednesday and the Hall Presidents 
Council last night. 

"We are hoping to spread the word throught the student leader­ship," Mond said. "We have easier access to the administration and faculty, but we feel the students must be informed as well." 
A new wing ofoftices and therapy 
rooms has been added to the center 
as a result of the merger. A library 
and an audio-visual room also have 
been added and the waiting room 
has been enlarged. 

In addition, the old infirmary 
chapel has been renovated for use 
by C&PSC for workshops, t11ms, and 
lectures. The C&PSC previously did 
not have a room large enough for 
such functions. 

The C&PSC offers both confiden­tial individual therapy and group counseling. A number of outreach programs are currently underway. These include assertion training, stress management, life and career planning, and a social skills/shyness workshop. Students wishing to en­roll in these programs should call the Center at 239-7336 between 9 
a.m. and 5 p.m. 

sional services to all Notre Dame students and their families, is the result of a merger between the uni­versity's Counseling Center and the Student Psychological Services Cen­ter. The merger, planned during the 1982 spring semester, was imple­
28 agencies 
featured in 

Career Day 
By SONYA STINSON 
SeniorStaffReporter 

Representatives from 28 govern­ment agencies will hand out literature and answer questions about careers in public service as part of Government Career Day, to be held tomorrow on the second 
floor of Lafortune from noon until 4:00p.m. 
The service is sponsored by the Placement Bureau. "The objective is that it is information-gathering," said placement specialist Paul Paul Reynolds. "However, some of the agency representatives will bring application forms for summer and full-time positions." 
Reynolds stressed that the set-up, which he described as an"information fair" will not be a recruiting effort on the part of the agencies. The event is intended for sophomores, juniors and graduate 
• students as well as graduating seniors, he said. Some ofthe participating agencies are the Department of State, the So­cial Security Administration, the Peace Corps and the U.S. Marshal. For the first time, the l'.S. Secret Service and representatives from three city governments -In­dianapolis, Mishawaka and South Bend -also will participate. 
Although many of the agencies sending representatives are local branches, Reynolds said they will have general knowledge about careers in similar agencies around the country. 


THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 




BOOKSTORE 
now featuring: 


POSTERS (4 views) $ 4.50 
with publicity printing 10.00 (must be ordered by 2·10) with artist's autograph 20.00 
POSTCARDS .25 F · n Call 239-5466 

• hniilnCoiilllodprO(jram~a 
iilhernogl'lscnoolorwneo 
• ~tateKI'IOllrSI'Ioplndgr 
•lederarstr.tOtrnrhnancra c:;,.ntProgram 
T~rnrormilllonyoug,.eo 
Aller you eo.mpletethe F,t. YIC11 (CSSI The CSS wrll a 
colregnand(>r~ramsrha 
gr.lmlhendtrCrOeswhelht ardyouwrllgtrt 
How do l•pply for lr tram ••••• •chol•ra 
Chackwrrhrhecollt19UJ• 
Shrporgtll\rpr~ramtos• 
them mQ1.1Uiron41 It eo am:l$4501ortachoth'llrc Do,. I ~111\0 Cash Milke VOl 
Schorar~l'up Strr•rce SorT>~" outotherlormsas-11 
How do lapplr for tr flnancl•lald progra 
Y011 apply lor leQerll stu• ·vaa rnquestron&JYour dtlfllhnanc;ralardprogram• 
When •ho.,.ld I fill Ol 
FlU our and marl thfl FAF mDI\Ihbalo,.lheearlresro Y0l.lhS!rnQufllron41 Don 
What I• my CBB "E• 
Tt11 CSS ..rrmllu what, corns lor college Flemambr lrnal dtrCrs.on about how m 

FAF due 3/1 
Deadline for submitting the 
Financial Aid Form is March 1, 
and the Notre Dame Office of 
Financial Aid suggests that stu­
dents submit the form by mid­
Februrary at the latest. 
The FAF is the only form required by Notre Dame for students to receive aid. Direc­tor of Financial Aid Joe Russo advises all srudents to submit a form to the College Scholarship Service and not to assume automatically that they are not eligible for aid. 
The office, Russo said, is hard pressed to give aid to students who miss the FAF deadline. 
~::~:~:~~a~~~~~~~s';.·; L---------------J ','"~~:~r.~~ ',::~~!':~::~ 
Tl'la CSS will lend you a rapurt showrng rn1 rnlormatron !1\il "'" 101 you mil~ not recerva ard Oon'! ..nc1 any lnc:omtr ta• lotml with 
ustldto cau:urate your .,,,,..,ltd conl!lbuloon your FAF to Ihi CSS 
Cecr"OO"' •••,..eooo.g.E•••o"Col•o-•••--aao••'V""'......,
·····•·ao;·•........_ 
..........""-'"''OftUOh----~ 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 

6>~~ 
ce 19 
~ 
Jilt~ 
20 0/0 OFF 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student 1.0. Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 

1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 

ll}oullwtrrn 
.......".' '"' 
co no.......~ O• 
~r ~~g~~·..·.~:,.. ~~ 
"'"
,,.  '-"""'""" '"""  ,."' 
...( ...  "'"'"'"Q'""  .....  
••  "<!  "'•""'"~  ... .  

nd,ourUII.OoulfAflo 
regeScnor;usnrpSf!rvrce 
380 
es lrsteO,.bove semi your 
""' 
lme·nratterrtnasanal~li!O 
your EstrmatedContflbu aOd<essg•venonQuestron 
rs and programs 10 wnrcl'l •corregesrogeryourfAF st 5~> A second Acknowr rrchwolllrsttl'leitdd>!ronal 
•or protram? 
•"•cnyoucanre..rollilnO 
FAFtoanOII'aflfCOIIIIQIIOI narcouegeFiecruestForm elrrstcoUegeorprOQ••m 
nk yo1.1 10 send a copy ol 
HELP!! Ombudsman needs volunteers to answer phonesfor lhour a week. Help answer N.D.'s questions and N.D.'s complaints. 
Call 239-6283 anp 
help OBUD help the campus. 

U.S. Secretary ofState George P. Schultz, right, is greeted on hzs arriz,al in Hong Kong yesterday by Burton Levin, U.S. consulate general in Hong Kong Schultz, who arrivedfrom South Korea. ear­lier also visited japan 'and China, and will leave Hong Kong Thursday for Washington. (AP Photo) 


Seniors! 
Help make the SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL a reality. If you wish to help organize the festival, if you have ideas about the planning of events, or if you want to publicize a 
* 
Recital 

*Reading *Concert 

* 
Acting or Directing Piece,~---­


* 
Exhibit or other art happening 


involving members of Notre Dame's Class of 
'83 
Please Call Theresa at6773 
or the Student Union Cultural Arts Commission at 239-5283 
Seniors, We Need You! 



Editorials 
Wednesday, February 9, 1983-page 6 
Western Europe and nuclear public relations 
Never undere~timate the power of public relations. E\'ery corporate executive knows that the public image of his company can make or break its position in a competitive market. Mobil Oil, for example, in its attempts to win the hearts and minds of the American 
Thomas Melsheimer 
Essay 
consumer. not only advertises its fine petroleum products but also touts its ad­mirable generosity in sponsoring PBS programs likeMasterpiece Theatre. Ofcourse, the term "Public Relations" has a pejorative connotation as it implies a certain super­ficiality and glibness of approach. Yet such is not always the case. 
The Reagan Administration is currenuy in­volved in a complex exercise of public rela­tions in Western Europe. The United States must convince its European allies that it is serious about and committed to nuclear arms reductions. Recently, the Soviet Union has seized the initiative in the debate and portrays the United States as an aggressive state intent on destablizing Europe with a new generation ofnuclear missiles. While this public relations war concerns all of Europe, it is focused on West Germany. The present German leader Helmut Kohl, is a staunch supporter of l!.S. nuclear policy. With the growing strength of the "pacifist" movement in Germany, ex­emplit1ed by the Social Democrats and the Greens, the t:nited States faces a possible shift in power after the upcoming March elections. Such a shift would make it difficult for the United States to maintain its stance on the planned deployment of Pershing II inter­mediate range nuclear missiles. 

In what amounts to an important public relations manuever. President Reagan has sent Vice-President Bush to Europe -to both ex­plain and defend the U.S. position. Simply put, the United States is willing to forego its deployment of new missiles in Europe if the Soviet Union agrees to dismantle all its inter­mediate range missiles. Short of this "zero­option" approach, the United States is also willing to participate in any talks aimed at sub­stantial arms reductions. Such talks began last Tuesday, the first day ofBush's trip, in Geneva. 
The Bush trip is important because it should courHer recent Soviet initiatives in Europe. Bush's dramatic reading of Reagan's 
_ "open letter" to the people of Europe, which called for an immediate summit between Reagan and Andropov to discuss nuclear arms, was the first U.S. barrage in the propaganda war. Additionally, Bush's visit to the Berlin Wall, his meeting with NATO leaders in Brus­sels and his call for European allies to offer their suggestions on nuclear reductions have all constituted a consistent effort at improving the "PR" of the Reagan Administration. 
The Soviet response has been generally negative as they have accused the l 1nited States of rehashing previously rejected proposals. But, in a Mrange way. this is exactly the response desired by the United States. The Bush trip is designed 10 create, among other things, a series of newspaper headlines that read "Soviets Reject U.S. Offer" or"Andropov Says No to Reagan." The Reagan administra­tion had presented the zero option proposal several months ago and it had been flatly rejected by the Soviets. Reagan knew that their position has not changed. In itself, the proposal is inherently unworkable. But having Bush publicly repeat the offer forced the Soviets to make a negative counter response, thus allowing the United States to appear as the willing but rejected partner in the strange dance called arms control. 
Without a doubt, rhe Reagan Administra­tion's position is completeliparadoxical-it must convince the Western European allies of its willingness to pursue arms control in order to insure the acceptance of new American­made missiles. If Alice found herself befuddled in Wonderland, the world of inter­national politics would really amaze her. 
Still, to dismiss the Reagan attempts as "superficial" or "insincere" is somewhat naive. Only a fool would oppose real arms reduction~ and Reagan. in this in~tanet\ b no fool. lk realizes that the crucial element of arms reductions is one ofpublic relations. The problems with arms control stem not from the number of warheads, throw-weight or range, but from more complex problems that deal mainly with perceptions. Both the l'nited States and the Soviet llnion wanr to appear to be leading the tleld in arms reductions -such reductions are in the political. economic, and even the moral interests of both parties. But the Soviets do not want to wear the black hat -they do not want to contritely come to the bargaining table and respond to U.S. proposals. Likewise. the t:nited States does not want the Soviets to convince the Europeans of American insincerity or nuclear casuistry. 
It would indeed be desirable if the Soviets and the Americans could put decades of petty perceptions, fears, and chauvinistic motives aside and pursue the morally demanded course of arms reductions. Present realities, however, dictate a far less rational approach. But it is nonetheless an approach and, as such, should be welcomed. With further public relations manuevers perhaps both sides can move into a mutually acceptable negotiating position. Nuclear weapons may determine the fate of the world. But good public relations may eventually determine the fate of nuclear weapons. 

P.O. Box Q  
Campbell PR tips DearEditor: In his Obseroer editorial (Feb. 2 ), "Some Public Relations Tips for FLOC," Paul McGinn meant the best for the down­trodden. Mr. McGinn supports the FLOC boycott against Campbell products, as does the Yall Presidents' Council and the in­formed leaders within Catholic and Protes­tant social justice experience. He suggests ways that FLOC could have improved its public relations approach to the Notre Dame community. For some of these, he must be commended. However, several aspects of the presenta­tion of the Obseroer's Editorial Editor must be addressed in fairness, not only to FLOC, but also to the Notre Dame community. First, the editorial decision to print the editorial along side a very biased cartoon was unwise. Such a "picture worth a thousand words" stereotyped FLOC, union­organizing and Hispanics. Members of the Notre Dame community of Hispanic back­grounds are rightly insulted. Other mem­bers of the Notre Dame community would be dissuaded by the cartoon from reading the articles on the page supportive of FLOC. Their titles did not clearly indicate such sup­port. Second, McGinn is perhaps, presumptuous, belittling the Notre Dame community, and revelatory of himself by several phrases he used. For example, "the inbred prejudice of a generally xenophobic Notre Dame community, FLOC -the title itself conjures up feelings ofami-capitalistic sentiments. The word "labor" conjures up dreams ofjimmy Hoffa and Teamster bullies and "committee" easily becomes a totalitarian catch-phrase of the Committee for Public Safety ofthe French Revolution or the Politburo committee of the Soviet Uni­on. FLOC's slogan, "Hasta Ia Victoria" is itself foreign to an English-speaking culture which so easily connects Spanish slogans and the  Sandinistas of Nicaragua, and many also see tual relations. Campbell determines, in these the brilliant red (associated with com­contracts, both the content and scheduling munism) and black (associated with of seeding, cultivating, spraying, harvesting, anarchy) banner of FLOC as an outright at­and selling. Notre Dame community mem­tempt to overthrow the forces ofdemocracy bers are astute enough to understand struc­as an eagle cries for justice." Mr. McGinn tural economic injustice, formal and might just as easily have identified followers material cooperation in the sin of injustice. of the Good Shepherd, Ceasar Chavez, any Campbell did agree to a debate with committee, red-robed bishops, black-garbed Valesquez and had more than a year to clerics and the American bird with anti­prepare its case. To say that Notre Dame stu­capitalists, corrupt labor-management par­dents would listen only to FLOC arguments ticipants, communists, and anti-democratic is to belie Notre Dame's experience from anarchists. the Nestle-INFACT debate ofearly I982 and Third, Mr. McGinn wants FLOC's leader, to insult the Notre Dame community. It is Baldemar Velasquez, to be other than the apparent that the policy ofCampbell's board leader of impoverished farmworkers and ofdirectors is to deny FLOC representatives assumes that members of the Notre Dame a forum to present their case and to cross­community are so narrowminded and in­examine Campbell. To refuse to accept the flexible that they will not listen attentively Notre Dame community's offer ofa campus­nor generously assist persons whose cloth­wide forum and to send Campbell ing, language and references do not echo spokespeople only for lobbying small Notre Dame or the hometown neighbor­groups ofstudents is to abuse the hospitality hoods. To gain Notre Dame support did Mot­of this academic community. The two HPC her Teresa and Lech Walesa first have to votes in favor of the boycott was poetic shop on New York's Fifth Avenue or in justice, indeed, Chicago's Loop? It is a hypocritical smear ofFLOC's leader, Fourth, the FLOC posters were the result Velasquez, and misleading of the Notre of Campbell's initial delay in agreeing to a Dame community to state, as a further debate and final cancellation of their role in reason for not debating Velasquez, that he the debate, as well as an accident of the uni­violated an agreement to make no statement versity print shop. The posters McGinn about the efforts of Boston Archdiocesan panned were the third set, made in haste to Justice and Peace Commission to mediate announce the Mon., jan. .31, I'LOC presenta­the Campbell-FLOC controversy. True, tion, for which Velasquez had adjusted a some of the FLOC staff did respond to news busy schedule. reporters' questions about the exploratory Fifth, Mr. McGinn might have offered talks this summer. However, Campbell also Campbell some suggestions, not on the tac­knows that in the meantime, their own tics, but the substance of its campaign. For representatives asked some religious groups Notre Dame and other honest communities, not to endorse the boycott because the talks public relations priorities ought to be first were being sponsored by the Boston "what is said" and second "how it is said." religious organization. That is, the truth first and the packaging Finally, Campbell complains that it is second. picked upon by FLOC and that other can­Campbell is responsible for the poor ners, who share a large portion of the wages, working conditions, living accom­market, should be boycotted also. The his­modations, and non-existent fringe benet1ts tory of industry-wide union campaign is a of the migrants who work on the farms of story of a veritable graveyard of decimated, growers v.ith whom Campbell has contrac­defeated, and dead workers. Aside from the  injustice Campbell helps to perpetuate on the migrant workers, its public relations campaign, directed toward intelligent and compassionate communities like Notre Dame, makes its policy and practices toward migrants worthy of a boycott. Let Campbell publicly challenge its competitors to join in continuing mediation with FLOC, under the auspices of the Boston Archdoicesan_lustice and Peace Commission or other regional or national religious body. FatherPatrick]. Sullivan, CSC Moderator ofMECHA Sexual Equality DearEditor: I am deeply concerned with the attitude evinced by certain Notre Dame students, male and female, in regard to yesterday's stu­dent body elections. Although I am reluctant to comment on an issue I feel should be ir­relevant, the situation demands attention. I am referring to the fact that a female dared to run for Student Body President. At the outset of this election campaign, I was convinced that Notre Dame students. would simply vote for the persons they felt best qualified to represent them as president and vice president. I was aware, however, that some students refused to cast a vote for a female presidential candidate, no matter how qualified she was. We had the opportunity and obligation to vote after deliberate and truthful considera­tion of three capable tickets. If Salvador­Carlin had proved to have been the students' choice, we could have begun a new prece­dent in Notre Dame Student Government. Why should gender be a factor in our ~election of student body officers' It should not be. Despite the outcome. I think Liza Sal­vador and Mike Carlin deserve our respect for the challenge and opportunity they placed before us. Mar)' Beth Heslin B1·een-Phillips Hall  

I~~r========== Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk BusinessManager.............................Tony Aiello
The Obsen1er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eric Schulz
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor .............. David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
SportsEditor...................................Chrls Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..................... joseph.Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303 


-~S tt0 W C ~~iiiiiSiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWiiedniiiesiiidaiiy,Fiiiebiiiruiiiaryiii9ii,
19ii83iiiipiiageiiii7 

Watching the ''Bunch'' 
A
n unclouded image ofthe family in Alfie's restaurant_ persists in iny mind. The night was always Friday. sometime around the hour of ~even, and the four of us, :\1om. Dad, my brother and I. sat in Alfie's eating greasy .~poon hamburgers and equally greasy french fries smot­hered in Heinz catsup. Dinner on Friday nights was easy-going. relaxed. It was a time to let ourselve melt in­to the scarred vinyl and forget a hard day at school, at the hospital or in t'1e courts. "TGIF-Thank God It's Friday." Truer words were never spoken. 
Tati 8town 
features 
Our calm, even-tempered family gathering consis­tently, nevertheless suddenly, became hurried. The clock was chipping away at the minutes. It was getting evercloser to 7:30p.m. The drive would only take three minutes (we had spent many Fridays calculating the minimum requirement for transportation from Alfie's to the family room). 
"What time is it, Mom?" (She was the only one who wore a watch -Dad's Mickey Mouse watch was broken and even when it wasn't, he didn't wear it.) 
"There's plenty of time," she replied faithfully. I never knew my mother to answer a direct question about time with the appropriate number ofhours and minutes. At seven, eight, nine years ofage, it frustrated me more than it does now. 
"Dad!" 
Never one to hat an eyelash at anything -he's the type that isn't surprised or distracted by much -Dad simply asked, "What'" 
About this time in the scenario, we became extreme­ly antsy, to use an antiquated parental word, and started stacking the dishes, piling the silverware on the plates, finishing off the last drop of milk. My brother had ac­quired such efficiency that he used to wipe offthe table. Boy, the waitresses must have loved us. 
"We're all done, Dad." 
"Good." 
Silent antagonism is nor easy to deal with when the clock is ticking offprecious transportation minutes. 
In my typical (for a grade schooler, that is) hands-on­the-waist, head-cocked-to-one-side look, I did my best to take control of the situation. "Dad!?" 
"What'" He again responded with a frustrating calm­ness. Not once did he break his concentration as he tried to get that last cup ofcoffee the perfect color and sweetness. 
By 7:25p.m. my communication skills were limited to whining and fidgeting, to usc another antiquated parental word, "Daaaaaaad." I hoped that he would get the idea. 
Eventually, he did. With little ado, the check was paid and the children were piled into the Volkswagen, the one with the flower and butterfly stickers. Woodward to Eight Mile Road, through Green Acres (yes, that is the name of the neighborhood in which I grew up) to Shrewsbury to the garage to the side door through the kitchen (most ofthe time we didn't even stop to take off our coats) to the TV set in the family room. No orders needed robe given; the first one in the room turned on the set and switched it to channel 7. 
"Here's the story ofa lovely lady ..." Those words were music to our ears. The theme song fron1 The Brady Bunch. Does that bring back memories? I wouldn't even venture to inquire how many people here spent from 
7: 30 to 8:00 p.m. on Friday nights sitting in front of the family TV set. 
Some people are too embarrassed to admit that they watched such infantile drivel. Reruns only prove how sugar sweet the Brady Bunch was. On the orher hand, there are a lot of people, even Domcrs, who like to sit and remember the names of the shows they watched when they were kids. They like to try to recall lyrics to the theme songs and reminisce about some ofthe more interesting story lines. (Pardon me for eavesdropping on your nostalgia rap sessions, but I couldn't help wondering why you were so interested in remember­ing the silliness ofa by-gone era.) 
Did you enjoy the sit-coms ofour youth more than the jiggle shows of the 70's and 80's? Or is it just that there isn't much worth remembering now? 

Film ptovides top CHOICE 
S
ophie's Choice takes us on a woe­ful "voyage ofdiscovery" into a modern heart ofdarkness. Director Alan Pakula has brilliantly adopted William Styron's novel for the screen, albeit in a stripped-down form. The film manages to retain the depth ifnot the texture ofthe novel, and the harrowing confrontation with evil near the movie's conclu­sion will leave you trembling. Sophie's Choice mourns the fragility and necessity of moral "choices," and, perhaps more significantly, the 


Pattick mulligan 
movie review 

importance of inventing our own fictions so as to make sense ofa world devoid oflogic and order. 
The navigator ofour voyage is Stingo (Peter MacNicol), a young Southern writer who chances upon Sophie (Meryl Streep) when he moves to a New York boarding house in 1947. Sophie is a Polish­Catholic survivor ofthe Nazi con­centration camps who has fashioned a sort oflife for herselfwith the help ofher obsessive jewish lover, Nat­han (Kevin Kline). The threesome spend a summer together in the city, a deceptively simple overture for the dramatic revelations made in the last halfhour ofthe film. 
Pakula's narrative technique is masterful. Throughout Sophie's Choice we can feel ;l seething repul­sion for man's seemingly endless capacity for cruelty. But this repul­sion is articulated only after Sophie comes to gnps with the horrible reality ofher ''choice," and even then, only in o. manner v.rhich is both plaintive and lyrical. The result is a film ofover-whelming imaginative power, a film in which form counter­balances content. Aristotle would 
definitely give this one the thumbs­riveting that Kline's faults fade more up. or less into the background. As far as the acting goes, Meryl 
It will be interesting to see howStreep has already won both the 

Sophie's Choice fares at this year's

New York Critics Circle Award and Academy Awards. A strong argu­the Golden Globe for Best Actress. 
ment could be made that this film is She will win an Oscar, hands-down. 
the year's Best Picture, but its sub­

Streep has researched her role as ject matter may be too sophisticated
Sophie, extensively, affecting an im­
for those who have been weaned on peccable Polish accent for her the cloying simplicities ofE.T.. Bycharacterization. In his first screen the same token, the only real com­
role, Kevin Kline is appropriately petition in serious film is Ghandi (toneurotic as the quirky Nathan. His be reviewed next week by Dennis scenes with Streep are full of Chalifour). In any case, both Streepelectricity, particularly one in which and Kline stand a good chance tohe accuses Sophie ofcomplicity collect awards as Best Actress andwith her Nazi captors. If there is a Best Supporting Actor. And at the weak link in the film it is Peter Mac· very least, Pakula should garner a Nichol as Stingo. At times h~ seems nomination for Best Director. 
to be genuinely uncomfortable on the screen with Streep and Kline. To Regardless of how many Oscars it compensate, MacNichol overplays wins, Sophie's Choice deserves criti­the facial expressions, often assum­cal plaudits. It is an intelligent, well­ing a dumb grin when he has no crafted, and deeply disturbing lines. On the whole, however, these exploration into the shadowy areas flaws go by unnoticed; the film is so of the human heart. 


SHOWCASE notes 
J
ust some notes to keep the readership up on what's happening in the features department: Are you going to [ie the knot sometime soon? Ifso, let us know.· "Showcase" will begin publishing engagement announcements about once a month, or as often as necessary to keep up with the upcoming valentine season. Send all the information about you and your betrothed to the features editor at The Observer, along with a photo, ifdesired. 
With the advent of the book review page on Thursdays, there is a 
new need for writers with strong literature backgrounds to review 
the books sent by publishers. If you are interested in reviewing books or writing in any way for "Showcase," come to the features writers meeting tomorrow night at 10 p.m. in the Caron Lounge of the LaFortune Center on the first tloor. Yes, all you features writers, there is a meeting tomorrow night. Be there. 
The "Showcase" section will begin printing a column consistingof poetry submissions this month, as soon as enough 1>ubmissions are received. Send your submissions of poetry (in any form -lyrics, limericks, epics, etc.) to the features editor, or drop them off in the office on the third floor of LaFortune. 

Not so Supet TRAmP 
S
upertramp is one ofthe least publicized bands to achieve platinum success which means that their music has almost solely 
carried them through the years. They have a respectable collection 
ofsongs that would make most bands proud, while their music has 
grown artistically and substantially with every album sinceEz•en in 
the QuietestMoments andCrime ofthe Century. On their last studio 
album, Breakfast in America, it even seemed like they could do no 
wrong: that success would never have any effect on the quality of their music, and that they would never rest on their past triumphs. However, ...Famous Last Words, their latest effort, shows that Super­tramp is heading in the wrong direction. 

Pat 8eaudine 
record review 

First ofall, this album docs not showcase any song as compelling as "The Logical Song," "Goodbye Stranger," or any of their earlier hits, and this is disappointing. The reason for this feeling is that their latest single, "It's Raining Again," though it has all the hallmarks of recent Supertramp, can not compare favorably to those previous songs because ofthe silliness ofthe lyrics and emptiness ofthe music itself. Granted, it is at the very least, still a fairly good pop song, but Supertramp has never played trivial pop music. "Put on Your Old Brown Shoes," a song that is in a relatively similar vein of musical emptiness as "It's Raining Again," also exposes the quality difference 
between these songs and previous works because ofits triviality. 
Another problem with this album is that it is entirely dominated by keyboards and saxophones, and although this normally would not matter, it does here because the playing is not altogether memorable. This does not mean that the musicianship is bad -be­cause it isn't-it just isn't as high a calibre ofexecution as we know Supertramp can achieve.-This dominance also means that the electric guitar that worked so well on "Bloody Well Right," a song from Crime ofthe Century, is all but forgotten until one of the last 
songs on the album, "Waiting So Long." Even the few power chords that were added didn't quite save this song. On Breakfast in America, they proved they could survive without the electric guitar to make good music, but here it definitely would have saved songs like "Know Who You Are," an acoustical song that never got off the ground. Aside from these shortcomings on the album, there are a few positive aspects that are clear on songs like "C'est LeBon," and "My 
Kind of Lady." First ofall, most of these songs are entertaining be­cause Supertramp, at its very worst, is still a competent band that knows how to make entertaining music. Secondly, there is a distinct, punchy rhythm to several ofthese songs and on "C'est LeBon," Rick Davies directly states and supports it when he sings, "Because all that I had was this music/ A-coming to me/ And all that I have is this rhythm/ A-running through me." The important aspect ofthis ex­ample is that the band actually delivers what it promises which is rare on their new album. What this positive side ofthe album means, is that even though these songs are, for the most part mediocre, they are not truly wretched or offensive; many of the songs hint to what the group is caable ofachieving. ln other words, though this album can hardly qualify as being any famous last words, there still could be 
brighter things in the future coming from Supertramp. 
·-I 
j 
Remember the "Weekend" column in every Friday's paper. Ifyou have an cultural or artistic or just plain fun event going on over the weekend, get the information to the Observer by the preceding Wednesday. 
Finally, if you have any comments or suggestions for the "Showcase" section ofThe Observer, please send them ... you guessed it! To the features editor of the Observer. We are doing our best to provide the best material available; we would appreciate any help that happens along. 
--~~--~----------------------------~--------------------------~ -------------------------------------------~-----------..-------------~------------------------~-----.~--~---­



~jb()f1tS=lJ~~~~t=·~~~~S======~~====================W=ed=n=e=sd=ay='=Fe=b=ru=a=ry=9='=19=8=3===pa=g==e8
By The Obserl'er and The Associated Press 
Interhall  volleyball  is  beginning.  The  entry  • •  • Optimism  
deadline is February 15 at 5:00. Because there is a :32-team limit,  
early signup is encouraged. The tournament is open to students, faculty, and staff. It is single elimination with three 15-point games  continuedfrom page 12  Yet Francisco didn't make up his mind until visitng Notre Dame over  Spruell, although not as highly­recruited as the other Ohio natives,  
per round. The roster minimum is nine players. Entries can be sub­ it by getting an early start.  the weekend ofJan. 14-16 and talked  still  drew  quite  hit  of attention.  
mitred to the NVA oftlce in the ACC. -The Observer  "We were on people early," said  with the assistant coaches and the  Spruell's head coach Jeff Black told  
Boulac  before  leaving  his  office  student body. "Coach (Jim) Higgins  the  Cleveland  Plain  Dealer  that  
Monday morning.  "That  was  one  really enlightened  me about Notre  Spruell  received  telephone  calls  
Any remaining participants in the men's un­ good thing."  Dame and college ball," Francisco  from  Mayor Andrew Young of At­ 
dergrad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should call  He too is cautious of the talent  said.  "Coach  (Greg)  Blache  lanta  on  behalf of Georgia  Tech  
the NVA oftlce at 2:39-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­ that  is  rumored  headed  for  Nore  impressed me as down-to-earth. And  while West Virginia Governor Jay  
ment moving. -The Observer  Dame in the fall. "You never know  so did the students."  Rockfeller pleaded the case for the  
until you end up signing them," said  Fellow Buckeyes Art McGlothen  Mountaineers.  
I·  Cross country ski clinic will be held Saturday on  Boulac. Besides Spence, Faust and  com­ and Trey Coleman each had their own bit of connection to Notre  
the Burke Memorial Golf Course from 11 a.m. to noon. Anyone in­ pany supposedly garnered tight end  Dame.  McGlothen grew up  across  
terested should meet with skis at the first tee. Skis can be rented at  Joe Williams, tackle Tom McHugh,  he street from  current Irish fresh­ Besides Ohio and  Pennsylvania,  
~­ the golf shop in the Rock from 4-5 p.m. on Friday, and from 10::30-:3  tight end Dan Tanczos, and quarter­ man  defensive  back  Ray  Carter.  California also proved to be a hot­ 
'.  p.m. Saturday. -The Observer.  backJoe Felitsky.  Coleman is from Dayton Chaminade  bed for the Irish. Possibly the best  
Pennsylvania wan't he only place  High School, the same school that  out of the state is quarterback Steve  
the Irish collected more than their  saw a young Gerry Faust coached by  Beuerlein,  who  threw  for  2,2:38  
The Men's Swimming team will play host to the Boilermakers of Purdue University tonight in the Rockne pool. Ac­tion is scheduled to begin at 7. -The Observer.  share of the local talent. Faust also did quite well in his home state of Ohio, a state notorious for produc­ing quality football players. Ex­ his father. "What really decided it for me was the tradition of academics," McGlohen told The South Bend  yards last season and 21 touch­downs. Offensive lineman Tom Riley isn't far behind Beuerlein.  
pected  to  sign with  the  Irish  are  Tribune. "It was the opportunity ofa  
tackles  Mike '  Griftln  and  Bvron '  lifetime and l didn't want to pass it  It appears that Pernell Taylor has  
Marathon Oil has bought all of the remaining tickets to this Saturday's hockey game against Bowling Green. The company distributed most of the tickets to its dealers. These tickets are sold out. However, there are 500 tickets remaining for students and fans. The tickets can be bought at Gate 10 of the ACC from 9 to 5 every day this week. Game time is 7::30. -The Observer  Spruell, along with defensive back Trey Coleman and tailback Hiawatha Francisco. Francisco is the most well-known, hailing from Faust's old high school of Moeller. TheParade all-American wavered only a little in selecting  up. Ray wasn't a factor in my deci­sion. I chose Notre Dame because Notre Dame wanted me. Other schools paint a pretty picture. Notre Dame was frank." Coleman speaks just as highly of Notre Dame as McGlohen.  opted to attend Notre Dame over Southern Cal. The fourth recruit from California is Tom Rader. Pittsburgh Catholic Central quar­terback Joe Felitsky joins Beuerlein  
Notre  Dame  over  Michigan  and  "Everyone who walks the grounds  in the quarterback derby. Felitsky's  
North Carolina.  knows each other," Coleman told  days are ahead of him after playing  
Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Dave Dzied­ "It's always been a dream of mine  The South Bend Tribune. "I always  just I 0 games in high school do to  
zic has announced a major rule change for this year's tournament.  (to come  to  Notre Dame),"  Fran­ wanted to play for Notre Dame, and  assorted  injuries.  Lemming  
Only one NCAA Division I basketball player, past, or present, will be  cisco told The South Bend Tribune.  now  I have  a  chance  to  play for  reports that Felitsky, who attended  
allowed per team. Registration for Bookstore XII will be Sunday,  "Even when I was six years old I was  Coach Faust. Everyone said he was a  the same high school as Dan Marino,  
March 6, not March 10 as previously reported ­ The Observer  a Notre Dame fan. I'm just following  nice man and I wanted to make sure  has  a stronger arm  than the Pitts­ 
through on my dream.  he was. He is."  burgh star.  

The Observer will accept c1ass1fieds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. class1fieds to appear 1n the next issue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 1n person or through the ma11.




Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car, Friday noon til Monday noon $29.95 includes 150 free miles. Sales tax & insurance extra. Phone Rob for reservations 259­8459. 
26'o OFF the pnce of a student ttcket wtth th1s ad and an 10 The Actmg Company tor the Kennedy Center presents Shakespeare's "THE TWELFTH NIGHT' 8 DO PM. Feb 12, at Century Center Box ofttce: 284-9111. 
Flytng Ftngers Typtng Servtce. On­Campus ptck-up ad delivery .85 a page Call Margte or Ann at 277-1624 
LOSTIFOUND I 
Lost: A brown wtnter jacket at Campus Vtew, Apt. 207 If you ptcked tt up by mtslake. call Jtm at 3632. The jacket was I·JSt at the party on Fnday 1/28/83. 
LOST GOLD SEIKO WATCH LEFT IN LOCKER AT THE ROCK ON 1/24/83 IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL GARY AT x4388 REWARD$$$ 
LOST!!'! NOTRE DAME class nng A 
'iOLD ladtes dtnner nng, wtth a GOLD 
tone. lnscnptton on tnstde ts --8.8 F. t ·a4 
If found please call BRIDGET at 8565. 
JIM a! 3274. Or come by 325 Lewts or 
•6 Keenan. Please help!' THANK YOU!' 
LOST: A PAIR OF NAVY BLUE NYLON 
RUNNING PANTS ON MONDAY JAN 31 
THEY WERE DROPPED SOMEWHERE 
BETWEEN LEWIS AND GRACE. IF 
i'OUND PLEASE CALL KEVIN x1592 
ATE NIGHT IS BEST 
OST. Yellow folder wtth Notre Dame emblem on the front etther last Monday or Tuesday (2/1 Or 2/2) labeled "Chnsttan :>cnptures" If found please call Debbie 234-7961. Thanks. 
LOST: 1/2 carat dtamond on gold selling for necklace etther tn Bustness Bldg. or ACC on Wednesday, 2/2. Call 277-0458 early AM 
LOST!!' NO CLASS RING('83), NAME INSIDE LOST POSSIBLY AT SMC(MOREAU-O'LAUGHLIN HALL), LAST SEEN OVER THE WEEKEND OF 1/28-1/30; IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO PLEASE CALL 283-3346 
To whoever accidently took my betge overcoat at the ACC dance Fnday ntghl, please return tl. I have yours! Call Bnan at 8315 
LOST-A tan RAINCOAT OVERCOAT at the SMC dance in the ACC It had a patr of suade gloves tn the pockets Probably taken by mts-take. If you have tt please call Dave at 1866. I can help you locate 
yours 
LOST. ONe grey. flannel kntt. wool scarf Mtssmg smce late Sunday ntght. Lost on North Quad. Phtl x1486 
lost:gold setko quartz watch. posstbly left tn locker room at the Rock on 2/4/83. It found. please call Ktm at 277-7401 
Otd you go to a NEW WAVE PARTY tn the basement of GRACE on SATURDAY ntght (2-5-83)? Whose COAT dtd you wear home? Somebody took my coat It 1s (was) a NAVY-BLUE P-COAT wtth forest green MITTENS tn the sleeve and 1nstde the mtttens were my fnends BASKET­BALL TICKETS (packet B). I NEED my coat-espectally wtlh all thts snow PLEASE call me any ttme day or ntght--Mary Karen 284-5013 or 284-5194 PLEASE HELP ME!!!!!! 
.___I_FO_R_R_EN_T_____J 
STUDENT RENTAL, 4-BEDROOM HOUSE CALL232-4057, 272-7767. 
4 bdrm furntshed house, near campus. On Notre Dame Ave. Good condltton. 9 mo lease $335 per mo Call 684-0933 (local call). 
STUDENT RENTAL 3-BDRM HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS ON S. BEND AVE CALL 239-6244 or 283-8657 
WANTED' ROOMMATE TO SHARE AN APT. AT CAMPUS VIEW. INQUIRE AT 277-1708 OR 283·8327. 
Cheap Rent & low utilittes: $235, 1-3 Bedroom Apt. $165-185 ott Portage 289­1687. 
WANTED 
Need rtde to Holland or Grand Rapids, Mich. on Feb. II or 12 Mary 7994. 
································································ 
WANTED: Rtde to Terre Haute or Indy on Feb 11-13. Usa x3352 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . .... . . . . . . . . . . 
Aught Need ride to Dekalb, Chicago, or anywhere on way HELP' Pat xl600 
..... ····················· ········•·· 
Aught Need ride to Dekalb, Chicago, or ANYWHERE on way, Feb.ll-13, Help! Patrick xl600 Philadelphia: Need riders to Philly leaving Thurs Call Tim 1584 

RIDE NEEDED to central Michigan on Feb II. Please call David at11 01. 
Need RIDE TO PURDUE lor wweekend of Feb. 18-20. Calf Bruce 1360 
Need riders to DAYTON on Feb 11-13. Please call Meg at 277-5168 after 5pm. Share usual. 
NEED RIDE TO U OF MANN ARBOR FEB 11 CHRIS 3184 
Need riders to John Carroll in Cleveland. Leaving Friday, Feb. 11. Calf John x3554. 
He yr We need a rrde to Purdue this weekend. If you can help, please call Tom at3121 orBrllat3202. 
FOR SALE 
Stereo Components L1ke New In Ong1nal Cartons Crown DC 300A Power AMP Crown 1 C 150 Pre Amp PtoneerTX 7500 Tuner Thorens TO 160 C Turntable 2x ADS 810 speakers Phone 234-2937 
ATTENTION I 
III!SWIMSUITS FOR SALE!Ill 
TOP BRAND, FAMOUS DESIGNER 
SWEATSUITS, REGULARLY $82 NOW 
ONLY $30'! CALL GREG AT 8291 OR 
TIM AT 16511 THEY'RE GOING FAST 
SO HURRY! 

PERSONALS 
ATTENTION SMC!!! ELECT Elatne HOCTER SPB Lee Ann FRANKS VPSA Madeltne HOCH VPAA Student Body Ofttcers' Vote Thurs. Feb. 1 0 
SMAKt MEET A KISSER Sponsored by Santor Class Send a certthcate redeemable tor a KISS to your favonte! On sale Monday 
through Frtday 1'1 :OOAM-1 :OOPM Feb. 7­11 For only 25 cents tn LAFORTUNE Send a Kiss for Valentine's Day~~stgn up now!!!!!!! 
Hey all you Domers 
Lme up m turn 
Gtve 21 ktsses 
to ALLISON ZERN 

Happy B-Day AI 
We love you! 
SMC Class ot ·as Vote tor 
Cara Hageman 
Michelle Lopez 
Marti Jones 
Mary Ann Potter 
They have many new tdeas and the ex­penance to see them through! 
CATCH THAT SOPH SPIRIT! VOTE 
Anne Mane KOLLMAN-Pres Shetla 
FLOOD-V P Katht HARTWEGER-Sec·y 
Gretchen WROBLEWSKI·Tres Tomor­
row! 
NO SOPHOMORE SKI TRIP REFUNDS 
can now be p1cked up 1n the Student Ac­
ttvtlles offtce Any questtons call Gary 
8022 
ATTENTION all those who know the proper terms (or a carbonated drmk what you blow your nose wtfh what you wear on your feet when you JOQ play tenms or chase roaddrunners. If you can answer the above and tf you can say p-t-n-k Wtlh two syllables understand a K-Mart JOke have seen a tumbltng tumbleweed y allts second nature and you worShtp the water Coors ts made from then you too can be a member of the ROADRUNNER CLUB Call Lynn the Lush x2734 or Tnsh the Ftsh x2191 lor detatls. Spnngsteen lovers need not apply 
Tned the OAR HOUSE? 
Everyday 2 tor 1 dnnks wtth snacks 4­
7pm Tues. ts Ladtes Ntght -1/2 pnce 
dnnks Thurs spectal ·snake Bttes · $1 
Gameroom & dancmg Carry out open "ttl 
3am every ntght 
Theo Majors: Tomorrow Thursday come to the Social Hour with Notre Dame's Professor of Judaism: NAOMI JANOWITZ 331 O'Shaughnessy5pm. 
I 
SMC CLASS OF 84 ELECT ADORNET­TO KEENAN JENNINGS BOTI SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS VOTE THURS. FEB 10 
BAR MELODY BAR MELODY BAR MELODY More 1nfo soon 
Hey Class of '86 
Don't Look Us Over We're The Lucky 
Clover 
Vote JULIE HARMON-Pres. 
MARY SAUER-V.P 
JANET BIEGEL·Sec. 
THERESA HARDY-Tres. 
On Thursday Feb. 10 
ATTENTION ALL SMC FRESHMEN 
For Soph. Class Ofttcers-
Vote Feb. tO· for: 
A. Bertucc1-Pres 
A. Karnatz· V P 
S. Knezevtch-Treas. D Buchanan-Sec. For a Super Sophomore Class' 
SMC Class of ·as Vote. 
MANION 
KARNATZ 
SAAS 
NOLAN tor JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS 

St. Mary's Juntors! · All tor one and one FOUR all 
Murph .. Pres 
Drake... V P 
Atsthorpe .Sec 
Walsh .. Trea 

for the Class of 84!! VOTE on Feb. 10th 
Attentton Students · Male & Female-Can you gtve a year to use your sskills to serve the poor of our country? A Manantst Voluntary Servtces representattve wtll be on campus on Tuesday & Wednesday Feb 8 & 9 tn the Ltbrary Concourse to recru1t students and answer questtons Call239-5293 for more tnfo 
VALENTINES DAY IS ALMOST HERE 
SEND A CARNATION! ON SALE IN 
SOUTH DINING HALL FEB 8-12 

Keenan Revue ptctures can be seen on ftrsl floor Keenan Hall If you would ltke to order see Bnan Calahan before Fnday 
Satnt Mary s student. Let htm know how (little) you care Buy Observer Valentine personals Ten cents per seven characters (And they say you can't buy love.) Come to the SMC OBSERVER ott1ce tn the basement of Regtna South 
12:30 to 3 p.m. Monday through Fnday 
KATHY DOYLE IS A SPORTS FANATIC. 
BRUNO'S ORIGINAL FAMILY PIZZA A SECOND LOCATION • NORTH ON 
U.S. 31 LESS THAN •.5 MILES FROM 
N.D. -DELIVERY TO N.D. AND SMC 277-4519. 
SENIOR SKI TRIP BUS LISTS IN STU· DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IN LAFORTUNE! 
7 A FLANNER 7B PASQUERILLA EASl · 
present "QUOTE OF THE WEEK. I never g1ve 11 to the same person tw1ce 1n a row CARLA CORTES 
TRIO AUDITIONING proftctent acousttc 
gwtar player harmony vocals. For mto 
call Lynn 6459 or Dan 3549 
Attentton Guys 

01d yo meet an tnlerestmg g1rl thts past· weekend? One you spent ltme wtth played mthe snow wtth and even perhaps walked home? It so don"t be atratd to call 
her. If she wasn"t Interested she woutdn·! 
have spent the lime W1th you! lt"s almost 
Vaient1ne"s Day -come on guys ­
Reach Out and Touch Someone call ­
A Watltng SMCer Need Rtde To Connecticut For Spnng Break Wtll Share Usual Please Call Dan at 6824 
Hey Bandtes Otd you mss out on Barnaby"s or Bunko? Don't sktp the Valenttne Bash Sat Feb 12 9-2 Keenan It's a btggte! 
HEY! Want to get ahead 1n the sconng For 2 pomts or more call 3498; as~ for Mtke Conversatton opttonal 
Seacow even 1f I had known . what Forms were there to share tn? N/A 
Atlanta. Are you gotng to or through Atlanta for spnng break? I could sure use a nde Comtng back early tor GMAT by chance? Need nde one way or the other Call Jeb at 8641 Thanks 
Mardt Gras Dancahon ptctures wtll be shown 1n the LaFortune Student Center Wednesday thru Fnday. If you would like to order come 1n and see them! 12 p m ­2 p m each day. SMC Freshman Formal pictures are 1n care of Kath1 Hartweger Howard Hall Beach p1ctures are 111 care of Matt McCarty. The PICture Man 
HAPPY 23RD LADY 01 (better late than never!) Love Norma John Meg and MAC 
Dearest Joan 
Happy Btrthday to a wor1derful fnend and 
roomette' W1lh love 
Otana 
DEAR K C 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY!!!! 
FROM ONE CALIFORNIAN TO ANOTH­
ER LOVE 
ARTHUR FROM H C 
P S. HOWS YOUR SISTER KRISTEN? 
SOPHOMORE DATE NIGHT-Feb 17 DtnnerMovteand Transportation tor two­$t0.00 Ttcketsonsale NED FEB 9trom 7-Sp.m. ~r: LaForune um1ted Amount Avatlable 
David M: Thanks for the movie last Friday. Hope you got re-appointed. Happt Hour this Friday? 
CfromPA 
J. Baumann 
Do you like: G&Ts Camp1ng ai ltlf:_· :Junes? BBC; Rtbs? Bos::, t~Jnes? l"ve seen U & like what I se.e -look 
here Thursl D 

The Observer Wednesday, February 9, 1983-page 9 

Today 27 high school seniors are expected to take the first step towards following Irish coach Gerry Faust out ofthe north tunnel in Notre Dame Stadium when they sign national/etters-of-intent to enroll at Notre Dame in thefall. See Dave Irwin's stories on page 
12. (Photo by Ed Carroll). 
-----------------------------~ 
The Notre Dame Student Union is searching for next year's leaders 
Applications for Student Union Director and Comptroller for '83-'84 are now available from the Student Union secretary 
Get Involved and_ Make a Difference L___A-~p!iE~JL~I!~~.!~~-l!!f_e_~-1_~.J 
Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If mu think ltali:m tix1d is just spaghl'tti :md pil.l~l. wt.'rl' got a mouth -opl'ning l'XJll'rit.•nn· waiting li1r mu eren· \\t.'thll'stb\ night from .;:IKl · IO:m p m at ·nw !Jxlking (ii;L>;~ lbtaur:mt in thl' South lll'nd \laniott. 
h1trodullng \\:una \Iamott's -:t hun// gustn arra\· of :mtip:L'-ota. minl'stront•. t(•ttucinl'. cacnatorl'. I:L\:tgill'. p:L\ta :md f( 1ur Salll'l'S. Chl'l'Sl'. hreatb :Uld dt'SSl'rtS. 
It's all Sl'll'l'liup in a tt·sti\l' ltali:m atmosphere.' ­checkerl'd tahil'l·ioths. a strolling musid:m­the works. 
All \'!lU GUl l~lt hIf Sb.'l') Cllildrl'n undl'r 12 -s~ l)'). 
Despite injuries 
Irish take initial MCC meet 
By DEAN SULLIVAN hurdles, winning a decisive victory, well and hopefully our injury situa­
Sports Writer Jan Kania and Jim Tyler in the 300-tion will have improved by Friday." 
yard and 1000-yard runs, respective­The injuries that most concern 
The Midwestern City Conference ly, and Ed Juba took the three-mile Piane belong to co-captain Jim 
will never be the same. Participating run in a sparkling 13:59.9. Moyar, bothered by a leg problem, 
in its first MCC conference meet, the Juba, Mark Wozniak, and Ralph and sprinter Van Pearcy. Both 
Notre Dame track team destroyed Caron ran in procession and made missed the conference meet. 
the competition, racking up 215 their move together before Juba 
points -twice the total of second­broke away from the pack for the ••••••••••••••••••••••• 
place Oral Roberts. win. 
The Irish had nine individual first In the field events, freshman Gary 
i Buy i
place finishers, and the. mile relay Lekander posted his first victory, team of John McNelis, Dean winning impresively in the triple McFarlane, Co-captain Steve jump, while classmate Todd Lezon Dziabis, and Robert Nobles capped won the shot put. Sophmore James 
i ~et i 
off the evening with a big victory. Patterson had yet one more victory McNelis and Dziabis were also in­in the long jump, leaping over the 23 
i o~set i 
dividual champions. McNelis beat foot mark. 
the field in the 880-y~rd dash, and The Irish hope to continue 
• 

Dziabis was virtually uncontested in dominating, as they travel to Indiana •• •• the 600-yard run, winning by almost University Friday to compete in the four seconds. State Championships. 
Other winners included graduate "We're looking to have a very 


i• Classifieds i• 
studentJohn McCloughan, who con­good meet," says coach joe Piane. 
tinued his dominance in the high "We've been running .extremely 
• 



r------------------------------------,
: Makes any : : other ~ar :1 look l1ke • 1 
I 'Rot\\Pcz,. aoo, I 
I I I I 
: Lowest liquor prices in town!! : 
I I I I
24 oz glass of any draft beer $1.10 1
1

I --__ -__ ----I 

I Mon.· Thurs. SPECIAL for any ND-SMC students: I 
: _ _Pi~er~f b~r ~0 &~50_ _ : I I 
1 ND-SMC night is TUESDAY with I : FREE popcorn and beer specials : I -COrnerOt lronwoOdand"Misha;aka A;--1 L--·••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 
IF YOU 1HINK IT DOESNT 
MA'I.I'ER WHERE YOU GET CONTACTS, YOU OUGHT TO HAVE YOUR EYES 

Where you choose to get your contact Nter selecting the right lenses for you, a lenses can make a difference. At NuVision, NuVision professional will make sure you we do everything to make the experience of are comfortable with them. Whether ~·ou're getting contacts a pleasant one. It starts wearing hard lenses, soft lenses, gas with a thorough eye examination by a permeable lenses, or the new extended wear Doctor of Optometry. The examination he lenses. we'll make sure you know how to administers is specifically designed to put them on, and how to care for them. evaluate your eyes so he can write your prescription for contact lenses. NuVision offers. contact lenses at reasonable 
prices. But what makes us different is our We offer the latest developments in contact own brand of care. From eye examination lenses at NuVision. Ask about them. The through follow-up visits you get Doctor of Optometry will take the time to professional care at NuVision. So when explain the differences and recommend the you've decided you want contacts, come to best one for your vision. NuVision. The difference is clear. 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
from Bausch & Lomb and American Hydron Bausch & Lomb and American Hydron Spherical Soft Contacts are now just 549. Price includes:
$49 
Introductory Care Kit; 30-day Trial COMPLETE Wearing Plan. 



FREE CHIANTI 
.Just present till~ ad to \'Our \lalt\'r ami we'll gJH' \ou a fret·l~lttl\' of 
Cl11ant1 to l'I\Jtl\ \\'Jtil your meal ami keep tlw l~1ttle :L' a soll\l'lllr 

Offer valid through February 23, 1983. One coupon per table 
.4 ru·etlero.' 

South Bt·nd/...\\arriott ttotel . 

WE PUT THE "CARE" BACK IN EYECARE 
12:1 \.St. Joseph St.. South Bend (219) 2.~+2000 

Under the direction of Dr Eli Shawo. O.D. 
The Observer 
Whenever Indiana coach BobbyKnight and Notre Dame mentor Digger Phelps get together the. results are, to say the least, interest­ing. See story atrightfor a profile ofthe often caustic, oftenfunny, always intense coach ofthe Hoosiers. (Photo by Rachel Blount). 

.."lllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHI..IHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIt'!. 
mOCK STOCK mARKET 



Now Renting for Summer &Fall Special Low Summer Rates Available June through August 15 
D utitities furnished D central air D indoor pool D completely furnished 
Reserve Now For Summer or Fall 
. 
For more information Call 272-1441 

Wednesday, February 9, 1983-page 10 

Stressing fundamentals 
Knight has IU Hoosiers in race 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -In­diana University's basketball practice session was over. But some­thing was bothering Bobby Knight. 
The coach went back on the court at Assembly Hall with three players. Dribble. You're going to get called for traveling every time. Keep your feet still and move this way or that way. You're a senior, you should know better." 
The player didn't get called for any walking violations in last Satur­day's Big Ten Conference game against Minnesota, and the Hoosiers romped, 76-51. 
Knight, regarded as one of the na­tion's keenest basketball minds, had gotten his message across. 
Knight, in his 12th season at In­diana, isn't always as calm and col­lected in dealing with people. To call him intense might be an under­statement. 
Considered an ogre by some, he has been known to vent his wrath on officials, players, timekeepers, media, and of course, a certain policeman in Puerto Rico. 
The 41-year-old former Ohio State player is wearing two hats these days, driving his Hoosiers in quest ofanother Big Ten title and an NCAA playoff berth. Knight is also preparing to coach the United States' team in the 1984 Olympics. 
His fourth-ranked Hoosiers will carry a 16-2 record (7-2 in the Big Ten) against Minnesota last night at Minneapolis, but Knight isn't sure how far his team will go this season. 
"We're a long way from being very good," he said. "It concerns me that we're relying on our shooting. We don't play defense well. We scrap and scratch for everything. We're not overpowering." 
Knight said he doesn't feel his 
team will make the Final Four of the 
NCAA tourney, but hardly anyone is 
discounting the Hoosiers, who won 
the title in 1976 and 1980 and 
finished third in 1973. Since coming 
to Indiana after six seasons at Army, 
Knight has led the Hoosiers to 266 
victories against only 80 losses. 
The Hoosiers have been getting 
the bulk of their scoring from senior 
forwards Ted Kitchel and Randy 
Wittman, the only players averaging 
in double figures. 
"They carry a heckuva burden," Knight said. Kitchel, 6-8, and Wit­tman, 6-6, have been 1-2 in the Big Ten scoring race most of he season with 20-plus averages. 
Uwe Blab, a 7-2 sophomore cen­ter and native of Munich, West Ger­many, has been impressive lately and "has a chance to be a very good player." Freshman Stew Robinson has moved into the starting back­court a1ongside seniorJim Thomas. 
Trying to find the right combina­tion, Knight has used eight starting lineups this season. "I'm using Robinson now because he sees the game very well. He helps Wittman and Kitchel get the ball." 
Knight's duties as Olympic coach, 

~ 
II

~ ~ 
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND AN 
OPEr~ ~OUSE 
INTRODUCING THE NEW 
COU~SELING 8ND PSYC~OLOGIC8L SE~VICES CEtliE~ 

THIRD FLOOR STUDENT HEALTH CENTER 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FRIDAY.~ FEBRUARY lL 1983 
1:Go PI rt ro s : oo P I r11 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 

You're Needed All Over the World. 
Ask Peace Corps volunreers why their ingenuity and flexibility ore as viral as their degrees. They'll rell you rhey ore helping rhe world's poorest peoples orroin self sufficiency in rhe areas of food production, energy conservation. education. economic development and health services. And they'll tell you obour rhe rewords of hands on career experience overseas. They'll tell you it's rhe toughest job you'll ever love. 
Film seminar Feh 1n at 7 p.m. in ~ieuw­land Science Hall Rm. 118. Seniors can picl-up an applicatjon in advance in the placement office for interviews Feh 22 & 23. 


PEACE CORPS 
the earliest the United States ever 
appointed a coach, now consist of 
getting reports on prospective 
players for the Summer Games at Los 
Angeles. 
He said he felt well-prepared for 
the assignment because of his ex­
perience of setting up and coaching 
in the 1979 Pan American Games at 
Sanjuan, Puerto.Rico. 
"At first I didn't want the Pan Am 
job," he said. "I wanted to coach the 
( 1980) Olympic team, but Dave 
Gavitt got it. But it was a great ex· 
perience and a great opportunity." 
The United States' gold medal vic­
tory was overshadowed by Knight's 
altercation with a policeman after he 
allegedly insulted Brazilian women 
athletes occupying a practice court 
his team was scheduled to use. The 
altercation led to his conviction, in 
absentia, ofassaulting the policeman 
and beingcalled an "Ugly American" 
by Gov. Carlos Romero-Barcelo of 
Puerto Rico. 
In a Jan. 21 letter to Don Miller, 
executive director of the U.S. Olym­
pic Committee, the governor 
renewed his protest of Knight's ap­
pointment because the coach 
"definitely lacks the sportsmanlike 
qualities and the gentlemanly be· 
havior that Olympic participants are 
supposed to display." 
"I just sit here and know exactly 
what happened," Knight said. "The 
American team knows what · hap­
pened. Every player knows what 
happened. I just got a clipping the 
other day where one of the players 
said I was 100 percent right. I think 
it was Mike Woodson." 
Romero-Barcelo accused Knight 
of "reopening old wounds and set­
ting the stage for severe discord at 
Los Angeles." 
Mike Moran, a spokesman for the 
U.S. Olympic Committee, said yeser­day, "Our position has not changed. Our feeling is that he did not provoke that incident in Puerto Rico and things were exaggerated. He was nominated by an ABUSA (Amateur Basketball Association­USA) committee of his peers. We have accepted it, affirmed it and reaf­firmed it." 
Moran called Knight "the best coach we could find." 
"The players who make the team will find it the most rewarding time oftheir lives," said Knight. 
• .. • Seniors 
continuedfrom page 12 
Bloomfield Hills, Mich., Pete Rokich, Provo, Utah, Tom McHugh, Philadephia and tight end Joe Wil­liams, ·Gateway, Pa. 
The Obsemer has learned the names of the following recruits who are expected to make it oftlcial today: defensive end Tom Freeman, Kansas City, linebackc.:r Dave Butler, Toledo, Ohio, offensive tackle Tom Riley, La Canada, Calif., fullback Per­nail Taylor, Bishop Amant High School in Calif., tight end-defensive end Tom Rader, Santa Maria, Calif., James Bobb, Port Arthur, Tex., and defensive back Steve Lawerence, Yp­silanti, Mich., tackle Mike Griffin, Cleveland, Ohio, tackle Bryon Spruell, Aurora, Ohio, safety Marv Spence, Chester, Pa., center Chuck Lanza, Memphis, Tenn., Troy Wilson of Md., and Bryon Abraham otTtica, N.Y. 
Notre Dame, of course, did nor land everyone it had hoped to. The biggest lost was probably Chuck Williams. Williams, a 6-6, 2-I'i-lb Parade All-American with -!.6 speed in the -tO-yard dash, opted to sign with Pittsburgh. Williams, who one Pittsburgh paper described as 
"being as big as the Golden Dome". hails from the same high school as current Pitt All-American]imbo Col­bert. 
----------------------~~~~------~----------------------~---------.----~----------------------------~--------~~----~
! 

Ihe~IYer========================================== 



T0 d~y=============W=e=d=n=e=sd=a=y=,=F=eb=r=u=a=ry=9='=1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e=l=l
Bloom County 
~ BWPU OF TH£ R£ST OF 
1li£ W\55, I'P UK£ 1D SAY HOW V£RY J6NSinV£ WZ THOUOO '/OUR 5€CR£T WV£ LEITER 
WAS, BINKL£Y. 

Simon 

Asprin Man 
HELLO. 
HI. SAY, I OIDN'T 
KNow 

SlAR.E WE ~ ft££/tl
8£ANS COULl>

CAN, liT TAL" 
LEAST" HERE "­
IN THE 0/AIIA/6 HAl./.. ) 
~o:l 
Berke Breathed 
trts A 
''...BABY, I PJfl 01\AAtutnc TH£ CARf3U!?£10R I\VI'V'1nll 

Jeb Cashin 

David). Adams 

..,..;..-------,
l3VT UPON 
R££YAMININ0 THE: NartS W€ 100K FROM ITS RE.CK,NT, UNAVTHORIZ£[1 ORAl-PR€­
5ENTA110N W£ FOUNV A HAN!?FVl-OF IND€CJPH£RABLE F'ASSAC:£5. 
\ 



SUU: loJf CAIJ ALl. TA 1.1(. 
TAKE, ME 1 FO'-INST"ANCE., AN UNOEflCOOJ(.£0 PIECE OF A0-1ST &:EF=. THE 
'(QCCJN6" I GI:1T FEl-T ­L/lrt! ;II Sl.l/lliiAT/4 OH AND THIS c:oaN JoiE/f.E' killS CCo/dD IAI A Jlll/c:~WAY/i.. Z:T Slt>II'LY MUTATED/ 

The Daily Crossword 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 219/83 




(J HilT'S ~OIN6 tJ/11 
HUE, co.MT IlK? 
011 I '1'1 :TUST )
1 

T/4LI(~6 TO X. DON'T 
S4flt1E OF TJI/5 Tlli.N~< TMIIT".S" WoAID£,( Ftil... 'fi.Df'ER. 
DI/11/N& HIIU.. I!TJQ~ 
FOOQ. ) 
I 
R.r:/ILL~?
"j 


ACROSS 28 lntellec­1 Feel the tual 
absence of 31 Shun 5 Jet's turf 32 Wandered 9 Dance: Fr. 33 A Gershwin 
12 Medley 34 Western 13 British star, once 
coins 35 Washed 15 Nuttree 36 Ova 16 A tennis 37 Brew 
champion 38 Mother. Lat. 18 -Ben 39 Musical 
Adhem transition 19 So far 40 Calculator 20 Freezes 42 Ship's 21 Took a taxi officer 23 Govt. 43 Art acces· 
agents sory 24 Racing form 44 High nest notation 45 Deliverer 25 Sizzling of 8D
Tuesday's Solution 

219183 
Campus 
•2 
p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Cenrer 

•4:20 
p.m.-Physics Colloquium, "What is the Force Between the Quark and the Anti-quark?" Dr. Alan Litke, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Avian Leukemia: host oncogene activations by RNA tumor viruses," Dr. Hsing-jien K~ng, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6 
p.m. -Swimming, NO Men vs. Purdue, Rockne Memorial 

•6:30 
p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Film Series, "I Claudius," ETS Theatre, 


CCE, Sponsored by Department of Modern and , Classical Languages 
•7 
p.m.-Clinic Series, "Natural Family Planning for Engaged and Married Couples," Mr. and Mrs. William Bettcher, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, 535 per couple 

•7:30 
p.m. -Women and Film Series, "Gloria," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, $1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Amnesty International Meeting, Madeleva Hall, SMC 

•8: 
15 p.m. -Lecture, "Vatican II on the Layman's Role in the Professional World," Bishop joseph Crowley, 11 5 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 


T.V. Tonight ·: 
7:30p.m. 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
8p.m. 16 Real People 22 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers 28 Tales of the Gold Monkey 34 Great Performances 
9p.m. 16 Facts ofLife 22 CBS Wednesday Night Movie 28 The Winds of War 
lOp.m. 16 Quincy 
llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 
12p.m. 28 ABC Late Night News 12:30p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
The Far Side 
•


Ill fliJ~>ii-O!S6%~~~)QIRCi~~~~ , 
i ~  Go skiing for the night with the Student Union!  ,,  
~  
!.···.'  Where? Swiss Valley Ski Resort in Michigan  

~ When? This Friday, Feb 11
-What time? 5 pm --11:15 pm 
, How much? $12 includes lift, rentals, and transportation 
47 Adolescent annoyance 48 Old English 
letter 51 Scottish· Irish 52 A Wimbledon champion 55 Minor prophet 
56 Tardier 
57 Two of a kind 58 Beach color 59 Rage 60 Melody 
DOWN 1 -Dick 2 Netman 
Nastase 3 Soft mud 4 Sun 5 Added 
condiments 
6 Jacobs or Wills of tennis 
7 Termini 
8 Perfectly placed serve 
9 He lost to Billie Jean King 
10 Lily plant 11 Praise 14 Repeated 15 Shish­17 Fearful 22 Sleeping 23 Battery 
part 24 At no time 25 Smoking 
stuff: Fr. 26 Rounded molding 27 A Wimbledon 
champ 28 Protect 29 Have a spat 30 Certain 
beam 32 Badger-like 
animal 35 Of the side 36 Hair· 
raising 38 Ruminate 39 Morecer· 
tain 41 Surfaces 42 Destitution 44 Bad tooth 45 Chair 46 Ms. Bombeck 47 Aleutian 
island 48 Birthright 
seller 49 Slender 50 Roll call 
response 53 British 
fliers 54 Quick to learn 
fl. 
•or var 
~ .will be Q VQilnbJeI Tickets are on sale ~t the record store, 1st floor, LaFortune J soon! L~>a<~~~~~~~~~-s..-wm:.l 
1
l~ 
1.:.~.~ 
~ 
I . nnnget positions 
Wed. DtQft SpeciQI 
Applicntions for 1983-84 Student
ffi 

Wednesday, February 9, 1983-page 12


S~orts 
High school seniors to sign letters-of -intent 
By DAVE IRWIN 
!>ports Writer 
' Today is the tlrst day that colleges can sign high school seniors to na­tional football letters-of-intent. The Observer, however, has learned the names of 27 prospects that are ex­pected to announce their intentions to enroll at Notre Dame in the fall. Policy in previous years has been not to release the names of signees until they have been cleared through the University's admissions office. Of those believed to be commited to Notre Dame, I 4 have verbally announced their intentions in the weeks leading up to today's national signing day. Heading the list of high school seniors who have made verbal com­mittments is Alvin Miller, Parade Magazine's Player of the Year. Mil­ler, a 6-4, 220-pound wide receiver from Kirkwood. Mo., caught 17 passes last season for 304 yards. He also returned kick-offs and punts. The Irish also continued their pipeline to Cincinnati's Moeller High School when Parade all­America Hiawatha Francisco verbal­ly commited. Francisco, a 6-2, 185-lb tailback with blazing speed, rushed for 1,456 yards on 193 carries and scored 1 7 touchdowns, while leading Moeller to Ohio's Class AAA state championship. He totaled 3,315 yards during his career. Alonzo Jefferson, from West Palm Beach's Cardinal Newman High School, is the third Parade all­American to verbally commit to the Irish. Jefferson is a 5-9, 1 70-lb wide receiver. The Irish signed two top-flight quarterbacks in Steve Beuerlein and Joe Felitsky. Last season, Beuerlein passed for 2,238 yards and 21 touch­downs. He threw for 200 vards or 
By MIKE SULLIVAN last year while earning the title of Sports Writer "Miss Basketball" of Indiana. She is the most highly-touted female ath­
EDITOR'S NOTE: In yesterday's lete ever to enter the University. paper, weprofiledShari M a lveJ', the It is players like Trena Keys who player most responsible for bring­will carry Mary DiStanislao's squad ing the women's basketball team to to national prominence. the brink of national recognition. That moment will arrive in the Today, we profile one ofthe players near future. A win over powerhouse in whose hands the team's future Louisiana Tech would definitely lies. draw national attention, but, 
chances are, the moment will come Trena Keys came to Notre Dame a little later. with some impressive credentials. When it comes, though, Trena She was selected a tlrst team Keys will be there. The 6-1 freshman Parade high school All-American from Marion, Ind. has already started 
to make her presence felt and figures to play an important role for the next four years.
UNC, UVA to meet 
"By the time Trena Keys is through here," predicts DiStanislao, "a lot ofpeople will know her name,

with top spot on line 
and, more importantly, the team she 
By The Associated Press 
North Carolina picked up more support yesterday as the nation's top-ranked college basketball team -a standing that is expected to be strongly tested by No. 3 Virginia tomorrow night in an Atlantic Coast Conference game. 
The 20-3 Tar Heels, on top ofTbe Associated Press poll for the second straight week, attracted 44 first­place votes and I,116 points from the nationwide panel of 58 sports writers. The defending NCAA cham­pions landed 34 first -place last week. 
Nevada-Las Vegas, the nation's on­ly unbeaten Division I team with a 20-0 mark, drew 10 No. '1 votes ­three less than last week -and 1,04 2 points to stay in second place. 
Virginia, 19-2, remained No. 3 with two tlrst-place votes and 1,039 
APTopTwanty • The Top Twenty college basketball teams 1n The

.. Associated Press poll, With first-place votes 1n paren­theses, this season's records and total po1nts. Pomts based on 20-19-1 8-17 e1c. Notre Dame oponents are italicized. 
1. North Carolina (44) 20-3 1,116 2. UNLV (10) 20-0 1,042 3 Vtrginia (2) 19-2 1,039 
4. Indiana 16-2 954 5. UCLA 16-2 898 
6. Houston (2) 18-2 820 7. St. John's 19-2 737 B. Arkansas 19-1 695 9. Memphis State 18-2 693 10. Missouri 18-3 685 11. Louisville 19-3 640 
12. Villanova 14-4 408 13. Kentucky 14-5 399 
14. Georgetown 16-5 369 15. Syracuse 15-5 234 16. Wich1ta State 17-3 205 17 Illinois State 17-2 165 18. Purdue 15-4 162 19. Minnesota 14-4 123 20. Iowa 13-6 102 


more in eight games. 
Felitsky, 6-4. 205-lb, is blessed with a rifle arm, but also has been cursed with injuries throughout his high school career. The Pittsburgh Catholic Central quarterback, the same school that produced Dan Marino, played just 10 games during high school. 
Trey Coleman, a 5-10, 170-lb wide receiver is one of the fastest that have committed. Coleman reportedly has 4.3 speed in the 40­yard dash. He attended Dayton (Ohio) Chaminade, the same school that produced Gerry Faust under his father's tutelage. 
The largest is Art McGlothen. Out ofYoungstown, Ohio, McGlothen is listed at 6-4, 290-pounds. 
Others who have verbally commited are: Scott Rogers defensive back-quarterback from Carmel,lnd., linebacker Mike Kovaleski, New Castle, Ind., Dan 

ball machine under coach Mar}' DiStanislao. See 
Tanczos, Bethlehem, Pa., Bob Martz, 

Mike Sullil1an's feature story below (Photo by Scott Bower). · 
see SENIORS, page 10 
Making adjustments 



Keys' presence proving a valuable asset 
played with. votes. "She knows that the better she can 
"We've been involved in so many do, the more valuable she is to the showdowns in the last few years, I team." think people down here probably Keys is already showing how can't get excited about another valuable she can be. She is scoring game of the century," said Virginia more than I I points and grabbing al­
Coach Terry Holland of the North most four rebounds a game while 
Carolina matchup at Chapel Hill. coming off the bench. Playing as a "But it is a big game and it is a game forward, she has proven to be ef­that everyone can get excited fective both inside and outside. 
about." 

"Trena's most outstanding at­Virginia lost to the Tar Heels 101­
tribute is that she is a fine shooter," 95 in their first match of the season 
says DiStanislao, "but she also has Jan. 15 in Charlottesville. It was their 
good jumping ability and goodlast defeat. Meanwhile, North 
hands. Carolina has won 1 7 straight. 
"She is a very talented player ­"Virginia is playing better than 
and the wonderful thing is that, besides being talented, she's also in­telligent. She realizes that she does have some talent. She's learning to develop her game right now." 
Despite her fine contributions, however, Keys is still trying to overcome the same problem as the other freshmen on the team ­adjusting to the college game. 
"When I was in high school, I ex­pected college to be harder," she says. "It turned out to be just that." 
The most obvious adjustment for Keys, as for any high school star, was getting used to sitting on the bench for some time. After playing nearly the entire game in high school, Keys has had to adjust to the fact that she plays only half the game. 
"It's pretty hard to go a full 40 minutes in college," she admits. "But just because I don't play as many minutes as I did doesn't matter ­I'm working twice as hard." 
Since joining DiStanislao's team, Keys has been working the hardest on defense -her own and her defender's. 
"In high school, you couldn't find many good defensive players," she explains. 
Despite missing some valuable ac­tion early in the season because ofan ankle injury, the improvement has been very noticeable, especially in the last few weeks. Keys credits her coaches for her improvement in, not only her defense, but also her overall game. 
"Trena is beginning to mature as a player," says DiStanislao. "She is now a positive asset on the fastbreak and very helpful in breaking a press. She's playing well." 
Keys and her teammates are going 
to have to continue to play very well 
if they want to have a chance against 
Louisiana Tech. 
"It's real important to get a team 
effort," says DiStanislao, "but we're 
going to need Trena's quickness, 
outside shooting, and ability to go to 
the boards." 
Key's task is not an easy one, though. She will be playing against the likes ofJanet Lawrence and Kim Mulkey, some of the best players in the history of women's basketball. However, in giving her prognosis of the game, she prefers to think about 
the Tech squad as a whole. "I haven't really paid attention to the individual players," she says. "I've just looked at the players as a group. If we could just pluck away at the group, we could be alright." 
Keys's future, as well as the future of the program, lies behind the Louisiana Tech game. 
"We're on the upstream," says Keys. "We've had our good times and our bad times, but, either way, we're gonna work hard to bring it (the program) where it should be." 
According to DiStanislao, Keys's potential is "limitless." 
Obviously, the future of the women's basketball program is in good hands. 
anyone in the country right now," said North Carolina Coach Dean Smith, whose team's 78-43 win 

Optimism reigns Saturday over Furman gave him a 13th straight 20-victory season. "It will be a battle, and we have a 
ND coaches to sign nation's best 
chance to win. Virginia is really at the top ofits game now." By DAVE IRWIN 
Indiana and UCLA, 16-2 apiece, Sports Writer each moved up two notches to the fourth and fifth spots. Houston, It looks like Gerry Faust has done which grabbed two first-place bal­it again. lots, also moved two places to sixth For the third straight year it ap­with an 18-2 record. pears that Faust and his assistant 
St. John's, 19-2, a loser to Pitt last 

coaches have cornered the marketweek, slipped from fifth to seventh, 
on high school seniors, althoughwhile 19·1 Arkansas advanced from Faust will not and can not contlrm it
No. 9 to No. 8 and Memphis State, until the results of today's national
18-2, a loser to Tulane, dropped from No.4 to No.9. Missouri, 18-3, 

signing date. remained 1Oth. "We just don't know," Faust said 
Completing the Top 20 are Louis­yesterday afternoon as he waited to ville, Villanova, Kentucky, George­hear from his assistant coaches who town, Syracuse, Wichita State, were spread out around the country Illinois State, Purdue, Minnesota and waiting to get signatures Qn national Iowa letters-of-intent. 
Faust, understandably, is a bit edgy as all the verbal commitments and announcements in hometown newspapers don't mean a thing until the letters-of-intent are signed. But all indications are the Irish will again have one ofthe best recruiting crops in the country. 
"How does Gerry Faust do it?" said Don McKee of the Philadelphia Enquirer. "Notre Dame got better players out of Pennsylvania than Penn State." 
One of those better players, according to McKee, is safety Marv Spence ofChester High School. 
"He is the best pure athlete in Pennsylvania," said McKee. "He 
reminds people of Drew Pearson he 
is so smooth." 
Spence, who led a perennial loser to a 8-3 record, threw for over 1,500 yards and 10 touchdowns while ad­ding 500 more yards rushing the ball. Tom Lemming, of the Mid­west Prep Football Report, also raves about Notre Dame's recruiting efforts this year. 
"He did a super job," said Lem­ming. "He is the besr recruiter in rhe country bar none." 
According to Brian Boulac, Notre Dame's assistant head coach and recruiting coordinator, the l"'sh did 
see OPTIMISM, page 8 

; 
II. 




