---~ 
Computers -page6 

VOL XVIII, NO. 20 tht: indt:pt:ndt:nt studt:nt nt:w~papt:r ~t:n ing rwtn dame and ~aint mary·~ THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1983 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The House Ap­propriations Committee voted yes­terday to cut offfunds for U.S. forces in Lebanon unless President Reagan agrees to invoke the War Powers Act acknowledging a congressional role in deciding how long 1,200 U.S. Marines should remain in Beirut. 
The 20-16 party line vote marks a repudiation of a compromise War Powers resolution agreed to by Reagan and most congressional leaders, including Democratic House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill. 
"If we don't stand up to our con­stitutional responsibility to declare war, we don't deserve to be elected," said Rep. Clarence Long, D-Md., chairman of the committee's foreign operations subcommittee and author ofthe proposal. 
Long's amendment was attached to a stopgap spending bill which must be approved by Oct. 1 to keep most federal government agencies operating. 
Under the amendment, unless Reagan submits a report to Congress formally invoking the act and ack­nowledging that the House and Senate could call the troops home. the funds for U.S. forces in and around Lebanon would be cut off November I. 
The compromise resolution 


Falling temperatures welcome fall 
House committee to Reagan: Invoke War Powers Act 
Associated Press 
A huge dome of Canadian air locked the middle ofthe nation in an icebox yesterday, putting the lid on a wretched summer. Never had it been so cold ~o early in the season in many places. 
The mercury dropped to record subfreezing lows in at least 3H cities from Idaho to Illinois and Montana to Texas. It was the coldest Septem­ber morning on the books in parts of Colorado, Oklahoma, Texas and Arkansas. 

On the next to last day ofsummer, it was a sweaty 84 by mid-afternoon in Roston, but temperatures in the single digits. teens and 20s were reported during the morning from the Rockies to the Plains. including an unofficial 8 degrees at the Agate Fossil Reds National Monument, 35 miles north ofScottsbluff, Neb. 
"We've sold three or four times more coats here than normal this time of year," said Fred Caventer, manager ofa}.C. Penney store in the Nebraska panhandle town of Al­liance, where it was 14 degrees. 
But the cold in the Alliance area also damaged potato crops which were destined for potato chip fac­tories from Denver to Lincoln, Ncb. 
"The biggest problem we're having is the potatoes arc freezing in the ground," said Frank Whatzal, ex­tension agent of Box Butte County. "Some growers were only half through their digging." 
Chicagoans who were running around halfnaked in the heat a week ago pulled on overcoats when they 
see FALL, page 5 

'Temporary' housing home for 19 
By CINDY BOYLE 
StaffReporter 
Nineteen students who are still living in temporary housing at Saint Mary's will remain where they are for the remainder of the semester. Keys have been made for the stu­dents so that the rooms can be locked, and phones will be installed very soon, according to Director of Residence Life Pat Rissmeyer. 
The students who are living in temporary housing. expected to be placed in permanent rooms. "They said they'd find us something," said Marybeth McLaughlin, a freshman living in the Holy Cross parlor. "I like it, but I'm looking forward to moving into a permanent room." 
"For a while, they told us we'd on­ly be here a week, but then they told us to plan on staying the whole semester," said Erin Kirk, another freshman living in Holy Cross parlor. 
"I didn't expect temporary 
housing," said Pomi Smith, a fresh­
man living in the McCandless 
lounge. "In my case, the college 
didn't know 1was coming here until the day before because of a com­puter error. I think all of the other girls were accepted late." 

Nine freshmen are living in the lounge in the basement of McCand­less Hall, and four are living in one of the two Holy Cross Hall parlors. Six transfer students have moved into two former study rooms in the base­ment of Holy Cross. 
The two guest rooms in LeMans Hall were used as temporary housing for four students who have since moved to permanent rooms. The rooms were made available in case the incoming students did not "show up or dropped out," accord­ing to Rissmeyer. 
The six students who are now living in the basement of Holy Cross had been off campus. These stu­dents, along with two other students who have recently been placed in permanent housing, were living off campus in the home ofa Saint Mary's professor. 
"Our first responsibility is to the students," said Rissmeyer. "We would rather have them on campus in temporary housing than off campus." 
"We are very happy with the situa­tion because the girls are happy," said Rissmeyer. "Our first priority is to the students, and they like living together." 
"The rooms are really nice," added Rissmeyer. "We may even make the McCandless lounge per­manent living space for upperclas­smen." 
Since the students have been forced to adjust to the housing situa­tion, it will be difficult for them to move at the end ofthe semester. 
"I like it a lot, but we know we have to move," said Kirk. 
"I love it, it's great," said Smith. "We've gotten so used to it. It will be hard to move because we won't move together." 
Saint Mary's Residence Life hopes to prevent this housing shortage next year and in future years. 
"We are in the process oftrying to locate more permanent space, or nicer temporary space," said Ris­smeyer. "We are planning for an in­creased number of students next year." 
which Long opposes would allow the Marines to remain another 18 months, but would be initiated by Congress, not by the president as spelled out in the Vietnam-era War Power Act. 
Reagan has also said he has con­stitutional objections to the War Powers Act, even though he has agreed to sign the compromise worked out after careful negotia­tions with senior White House aides. 
In the Senate on Tuesday, Secretary ofState George Shultz said that although Reagan will sign the compromise resolution, the presi­dent does not intend to share responsibility on the deployment of 
U.S. military forces overseas. 
In testimony before the House Foreign Affairs and Senate Foreign Relations Committees, Shultz said repeatedly that Reagan had serious constitutional objections to the War Powers Act underwhich the resolu­tion was drafted. 
With or without the war powers resolution allowing 1,200 Marines to remain in Lebanon for 18 months, Shultz said the United States has no intention of widening its military role in Lebanon, 
"There is no plan to change the mission we have in Lebanon. Ifsuch a plan would emerge, we would con­sult with Congress about it," Shultz said. 
At the same time, Shultz refused to say if Reagan would seek further congressional approval if the Marines are still in Lebanon after the 18 months spelled out in the com­promise war powers resolution worked out between Reagan and congressional leaders. 
"I don't think the president will have to make a flat statement on what he's going to do about the deployment ofU.S. forces 18 months from now," the secretary said. . In ali-day testimony, Shultz met heavy criticism on the 18-month limit from House members and senators who said they are reluctant to give Reagan a "blankcheck" for so long a time in a volatile combat situation. 
The resolution is to be voted on in the House committee today and in the Senate panel tomorrow, with final congressional action next week. 
Meanwhile, Reagan hailed the war powers compromise as "a welcome step forward in our pursuit of 
peace."  
Reagan,  speaking  to  a  White  
House  luncheon for  broadcaster~,.  
said  keeping  the  Marines  on  

peacekeeping duty "is absolutdy crucial if the fighting is to stop, the 
see REAGAN, page 5 


Members ofthe Saint Mary's Programming Committee met last night to decide plans for Saturday's Five Hall Dance at Haggm· Hall. From left to right are: Sue Naples, secretary; Lee Ann Franks. chairwoman; and Mary Ann Potter, treasurer. 
Miami game to be shown at SMC Five Hall Dance 
ByEDWARD NOLAN 
News Staff 

Alarge-screen television will be set up on the third floor lounge of the Haggar Center to allow those attending the Five Hall Dance to see the Notre Dame/Miami game Saturday night. 
The Saint Mary's Programming Committee which met yesterday decided to install the TV screen at the dance which will take place Saturday from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the second-floor Ballroom of the center. The dance is free to all Notre Dame men and women. 
The committee also discussed the United Way campaign. Each hall and class will sponsor a project to raise money for the United Way Fund. No decision was made on how Saint Mary's students will help meet the SI6,854 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student-faculty goal. The committee stated the new rules concerning sign-posting on campus. All publicity notices on campus must first be approved by resident assistants of the dorms. Hall directors or resident assis­tants must receive all posters at least four days before they are hung. After the posters are stamped with a seal the RA's will then post the publicity materials throughout the dorms. 
Shuttle schedules listing the new routes will be released within 
the next few days. The new routes will remain effective throughout 
the year, despite the fact that the committee noted the new stop on 
Douglas Road is not used enough to warrant the hourly trip. 
The shuttle now stops on every run at the University Village Apart­
ments, lengthening the riding time between campuses. 
The Observer Thursday, Septembe·r 22, 1983-page 2 


In Brief 
State Rep. B. Patrick Bauer, partial owner of 
Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, is undergoing hospital treatment for hyperglycemia. Bauer is asking that a hearing scheduled for wday concerning his recently-constructed tavern addition be postponed. Bauer believes the hyperglycemia, a blood sugar imbalance related to diabetes, may have been triggered by stress related to the city's effort to force removal ofthe addition. The Board ofZoning Appeals hearing is scheduled for 3:30 today in the County-City Building. ­
The Ohsen'er 
Notre Dame'sCharles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism will establish a S2,000 research grant toward Irish-American studies. The grant, funded by the Ancient Order of Hibernians and its Ladies Auxiliary, will be given to a postdoctoral scholar of any academic discipline engaged in research on the experience of Irish people in the United States. Application~ for the Hibernian Research Award should be made before December 31, 1983, 10Jay P. Dolan, Direcor, Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism, 614 Memorial Library, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The center, established in 1976, works on in­strut·tion, research, publication and collection ofmaterials pertinent to tht· study of Amt·rican Catholic history and culture. -The Ob­sen,er 
Notre Dame led all Catholic institutions of higher karning and was 21st among the nation's 74 independent univer­~itics in total financial support received in 19H 1-82, according to a report'ofthc Council for Financial Aid to Education. The amount was S25."' million. The University finished tlrst among American private institution~ in dollar amount givt·n to its annual fund campaign and in the amount contributed by non-alumni parents. The University 11nisht·d ~t·nmd to Dartmouth College in the percentage of alumni giving to their alma mater and I I th in the total amount of alumni giving. Notre I>amt· was eighth in tht· amount of matching gifts rect'ivcd from corporations. Tht· liniver~ity's endowment ;tt the time ol the .~urvey-Sl05 million at market value -was 11rst among (:atholic in~titution.~ and 19th among all private universities. -The 
( JIJSI!/'1'1!1' 
A man wrested control ol a twin-engine plane with 17 people aboard ycsterda}, sending it into a nosedive bdi1re the pilot regained control with about 200 feet to spare. authoritie~ s:ud. No injuric~ wert· reported aboard the Empire Airlines flight from \X,.a~hington to Montreal. It landed ,afely at Hancock Interna· tiona! Airport in Syracuse, officials said. The man, Chri~topher Hrad· ~haw, 2"'. of ~uburhan Baldwinwille, was !>Uhdued by the plane's co-pilot and at least one other passenger after he allegedly lunged into the cockpit and tried to wrest controls from the pilot ahout a mik away from the airport, said Syracuse police spokesman Rod Carr. Bradshaw was charged with four coi.triis o(attempted'mlirder after the plane landed. -AP 
An unanned Minuteman 3 missile 
was launched from Vandenburg Air Force Base yesterday morning, according to an Air Force spokesman. The intercontinental missile was launched at 6:55 a.m. for a 30-minute flight to the Kwajalein Atoll in the Western Pacific, said base spokesman Col. Dick Heil. It was the 454th SAC minuteman launch since the early 1960s, he said. Vandenbu t rg lies approximately I 50 miles northwest ofLos Angeles. 
-AP 
A dairyworkerwas critically wounded by a gunshot to tlw forehead during an election to decide whethn employees want the l1nited Farm Workers union to reprc~ent the local Carul· ilcrs, Calif., union. Voting was never completed ;II the Ralph Sikkema lhiry, ncar Caruthers in Central California. 200 miles north of l.o~ 
\ngeles. Ballot~ will not be counted, said Ed Pete?., field examiner ''•r tht· statt· Agricultural Labor Rehllions Board. Rene Lopez, 21, was "1111 by someont· who called workers over 10 a car Tuesday after· noon, a witne~~ ~aid. Fresno County sheriffs deputies were search· mg li>r two men hut had m:1de no arrest.~. --AP 
Of Interest r . ·.c • 
N.D. F.L.O.C. (Farm Labor Organizing Committee) will hold its t1r~t general mtTting tonight at ., in the Center for Social Conn·rns. Plans for the Pt·te Seeger benet1t concert will be dis· cu~~ed. All arc wekome to attt·nd. -The OfJsen•er 
Weather · . · 
Mostly cloudy today and very coolwith a 20 percent chance of showers. High in low to mid 50s. Mostly cloudy tonight and very cool with low in upper 30s to low 40s. Clearing tomorrow but cool with high in mid to upper 50s. -AP 


Best of the Mediocre 
Notre Dame may be the best Catholic university in the United States, but that's not saying much. At least, that's what 6,000 scholars said in a report on academic quality at American universities released by the Con­ference Board of Associated Research Councils. According to the report, Catholic universities trail their public and private counterparts -systematic scores place every Catholic university, including Notre Dame, in the bottom halfofAmerican universities. 
While Notre Dame administrators call the report in­complete and inconsequential, one Catholic sociologist, Father Andrew Greeley, has gone so far as to say that Catholic intellectualism will die unless Catholic universities get off their butts and develop "respect for learning." 
In this week's edition ofNational Catholtc Reporter, Greeley puts together one of the most fascinating and in-depth accounts of the demise of Catholic scholar­ship, a demise which Catholic historian Tracy Ellis (best 
Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursd 

base your grade on?" Without missing a beat, the priest replied, "I don't believe in grades." Stunned, the student asked, "But you have to give a grade don't you?" To which the priest politely said, "I know, and that's too bad." 
If there is one riveting bolt which crucifies Notre Dame to the cross ofintellectual inferiority it is the per· formance mentality which says, "I don't care what I 
known for his work, learn; I only want to American Catholicism) for­memorize facts and regur­saw in the 1950s. gitate those facts on the next 
Greeley recalls that it was test so I can get a good grade Ellis who noted the greatest -and then I can get a job failure ofthe American Cath­and be productive. olic Church is its inability But the fault lies not only "to exercise commanding with undergraduates influence in intellectual faculty members who dis­
circles." courage discussion and who 
Notre Dame's endow· base knowledge of material ment exceeds S225 million, on so-called "objective" and the faculty remains one tests are as much at fault as of the most respected teach­the student constantly ing bodies in the llnited worried about his or her States. So why is Notre Dame grade point average. still in the bottom half of the Catholic Americans, nation's universities? according to Greeley, con· 
Greeley believes the root skier their lives important if of the problem is the Cath· they noticeably contribute olic mentality: "We still sec to human needs. But most 

opposition between religious zeal and ideas ... We still find scholarship and pragmatic programs to be incom­patible ... We still fear the arrogant knowledge of the intellectual ..." · 
Whik (;reelcy's comments arc levelled primarily at the quality of graduate level research at Catholic uni­versitic~. anti-intellectualism infecb undergraduate education as well. -·--­
I remember the t1rst day ofthe hcst course I cvt·r took at Notre Dame. Th'· subject was philosophy, but it was nor an ordinary philosophy course. It remains the only class I ever took from a Holy Cross priest, a man I respect for hb scholarship and humility -he knew what he was talking about, but was never pedantic. · ·when Wt' entered the classroom that first day, this priest talked about how we were going to cover the material, who we were going to read, and why we were reading those authors. A student then raised a hand to ask the standard Notre Dame question: "What do you 
_ The_Qbserxer_ 
Composition Editor.... Tom ~app (with a 
littk hdp from his friends) 
2Composition A~:-.istant ....Carolt" l.augic:r 
and Chri~ Howle~ (welcome:! ) layout .\'tub.. .. Maurt:en ( plea~e t·ome 
had I 
1)•pesetten .......... ................................. Bill !'1t'eu•s Editor ................................. ........ Annt· CofJI' Edit"r ........................................ <:ecilia .\ports Copv Editor ......... Mike Editorials /.uyour ............. Thomas Robert Features Lav~ut ......... Mary NO Ouy l:'ditor .......................................... jeff SMC Day Editor............................ Mary Ann Pbotoxmpber......................................... Tom 
Guest AfJfJeurances .Ju~t ahnut t•veryone who i~ anyone; Sapp's Sd1olasric friend~ (Jim and Chuck) 
The Obeerver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on horne lootball Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObNrver IS published by lhe students ol Notre Dame and Samr Marys College. Subscnphons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnllng The ObMrver. P 0 Box Q, Notre Dame. fnd1ana 46556 
The ObMrver IS a member of The ANOCIIIted PreM. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 

Catholics do not not see scholarship as a human need. 
And while Greeley believes intellectuals aren't "all· 
important," he does believe th.1t American Catholio 
must come to realize that schoh1rs are just as 1mportant as lawyers. doctors. and Pe:1cc Corp~ worker~. As Jon!! a~ American Catholics remain convinced of the adage. "Those who can. do; tho~t· who can't. teach," Catholic intelkctuals will never reach their full academic potential. And until ~omeone can convince Notre Uamc undergraduates that scholarship and reality c:m coexist, Notre Dame will continut· to tloun· dcr in mediocrity, albeit the best in mediocrity. 
Observer notes______, 
The Observer always is looking for students to cover Saint Mary's news before it hits the wire. If you are interested, come up to the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. Ask for Anne Monastyrski or Margaret Fosmoe. 

$$ WANTED $$ USCvs.ND FOOTBALL TICKETS (213) 481-7079 
Interested in Working Abroad? 
join AIESEC 

The Observer Thursday, September 22, 1983 -page 3 


Soviet official admits pilot made 'mistake' 
Associated Press 
in-chief of the Soviet Communist 

EDINBURGH, Scotland A Party newspaper Pravda, on Sunday Soviet official acknowledged yester­criticized Soviet military leaders for day that Soviet pilots made a waiting six days before they ad­"mistake" in the downing ofa South mitted the airliner was shot down. Korean airliner. He said they wrong· Linnyk, who the BBC said is a con­Iy identified it as a military recon­sultant to the Communist Party naissance plane and wouldn't have central committee's department of shot it down if they had known it internal information, said the pilots was a commercial flight. who intercepted KAL flight 007 
He repeated the allegation that "never thought it was a civilian the Korean Air Lines jumbo jet was plane. If they did, the decision on a spy mission. would have been totally different. I 
It was the fJ.rst Soviet admission of am absolutely certain ofthat." error in the destruction Sept. I of He repeated earlierSoviet conten­the Boeing 747 and the 269 people tions that there was "strong aboard after the plane was inter­evidence" the Korean plane was on a cepted over the Soviet island ofSak­spy mission but added, "Had we halin. known (it was civilian), we wouldn't 
"Ofcourse, it was a mistake in the (have shot), never, no -even sense that the pilots took this plane though it was spying." for a reconnaissance plane," the offi­He noted American admissions cial, Viktor Linnyk, said in English in that a U.S. Air Force reconnaissance an interview with the British plane was operating over the north Broadcasting Corp. The BBC iden­Pacific at the same time the Korean tifJ.ed him as an adviser to the Soviet plane flew over the Kamchatka leadership and one ofthe nine mem­peninsula, which is studded with bers of the Soviet delegation to an top-secret Soviet military bases. Edinburgh University conference on Linnyk said the presence of the East·West relations. U.S. plane made Soviet interceptor 
Another member of the Soviet pilots "trigger-happy." delegation, Viktor Afanasyev, editor-



Business students receive $45,000 from risk-free investment fund 
ByJOE INCARDONA "The whole thing is the students," wide range of stocks and securities StaffReporter said Conway. ''I'm the only faculty reflecting various investment intermediary in the whole process. philosophies. "As a group over the Ever feel like the largest invest­The ultimate decision (concerning years, they've been very con· ment you'll ever make is for that S65 possible investments) comes down servative," said Conway. "They've textbook sitting on some dusty shelf to me, but I don't make decisions on never really made any wild ventures, in the Bookstore? whether a stock is good or had -it's in spite of the fact that in setting up 
Well, here's the answer for those whether or not the students have their objectives each year, they are would-be barons of Wall Street who supported their recommendations allowed to set aside a certain aspire to higher stakes in the invest­adequately." amount of the portfolio for risky in­ment game-a J45,000 Investment Conway says participation in the vestments." Fund with the sole purpose ofletting fund is open to any interested stu­Conway also noted that for the interested students try their hands at dent on campus -no background last five years the fund has outper­
big-money investment without per­orcourses in business are necessary. formed the Dow Jones Industrial sonal risk. Students are organized into Average in the stock market. He The fund, administered by the research groups, each with the credits the hard work ofthe students College ofBusiness Administration's purpose of studying a different involved for the success of the Advisory Council, was initiated in aspect of the stock market. After program: "I think it's the intense in­the late 1950s by an anonymous gift careful study, the research groups terest on the part ofthe students and of SI 0,000 from one ofthe Council's recommend certain transactions to the homework they've done in members. According to Paul Con­an executive committee consisting terms of research that has definitely 
way, associate professor of fJ.nance of students who have experience paid off." and faculty advisor to the program, it either in business or with the fund. Now that the Investment Fund has was the donor's idea to earmark the The committee then prepares a grown to a tidy S45,000, the ques­gift for the expressed purpose of report on which transactions to tion arises as to what will eventually giving students fJ.rst-hand ex­pursue, following the strategies and become of its assets. The fund will 
perience in the field ofinvestments. guidelines which they set at the continue to grow, says Conway, un· The donor also hoped that the fund beginning ofthe year. less student interest dwindles. If in­would he run entirely by students, Because the student research terest should dwindle, the money with one faculty adviser represent­groups have been different each would be turned over to the univer­ing the Administration. year, the fund has been invested in a sity. 

Band elects first woman president 
By ROBIN LUSARDI As president, Halland makes sure thought that because I was from News Staff the four band units and its officers Saint Mary's, I wouldn't be a true are doing their jobs. She also acts as a representative of Notre Dame, hut I 
It took I 38 years, hut the Fighting mediator between band directors tried to make them understand that Irish band now has a woman presi­and members. But more important­we are a group working for the same dent, and she is from Saint Mary's. ly, she says, "I must see that the goals." Halland believes she has con­Laura Halland, a senior from Grand bands' responsibility of performing vinced band members of her Rapids, Mich., was elected president for the University is being fulfilled." abilities. by the band members last spring. Halland plans to maintain the Associate Band Director James 
Halland, who has been a member band's reputation. "I want to con­Phillips is pleased with her perfor­ofthe band since her freshman year, tinue to uphold and promote the mance. "I feel Laura does a fine job. plays the flute and piccolo. Over the well-respected reputation we've She's an excellent musician and ex­past years, she has served in each of earned. I also encourage more input tremely energetic," said Phillips.. the four band units: the marching and participation from band mem­Halland, an education major with band, the varsity band, the concert bers. I'm interested in how they a music minor, plans to teach kinder­band, and the jazz band. In addition, feel." garten when she graduates. "I hope Halland was social chairman of the Saint Mary's women were first ac­that through my knowledge and band last year. I really enjoyed cepted into the University of Notre love ofmusic, I'll be able to bring the working with the band as social Dame Bands in 1970, two years joys of music to children as it has 
·chairman, so I decided to extend my prior to the admission ofwomen in­been brought to me," said Halland. 
ambitions to band president." to the University. "Some people Halland believes that her involve­ment in the band has given her an advantage. "I've got the best ofhoth worlds. While I'm benefiting from Saint Mary's excellent tradition ofs education and preparation of women, I can also he a part ofNotre 
Dame's famed tradition through serving in the hand."


LJ 1 
M 9 


M EJ 


E 
enjoy yourjob~~ and your spare 
time too! 
I~ 

Salary 
Starts annually from $17,000 and increases anaally toNOTRE DAME $29,000 in four years 
FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAM 
Qualifications
TO BSN Degree or 3 year diploma with one year ofexperience.PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA You mast be at least 20 years old bat under 35 years old. 
Benefits
WHO: Undergrads &Grads 
30 days paid vacation Rapid advancement Worldwide travel

WHAT: Information Meeting 
For More Info Contact Kathy Scanlon
WHEN: Sept. 22, 6:30p.m. 
1-800-382-9782 

WHERE: Satellite One, Rm. 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall 


·-·--·---'-'-"l'............. ~. _...._....... ,"-.·.. -..... -... --·... -.'··· 
The Observer Thursday, September 22, 1983 -page 4 

Fit•e tbousund youthful demonstrators are .in u standoff with riot police guarding the way to President Fer­lli,antlE. Marcos' Malacanang Palace in Manila, Philippines. Minutes later, violen.ce eruptedas theyouthspelted police with rocks and set afire tu•o buses and,.a cranefrom· which this photo was taken. 
Anti-government protests explode into bloody street riots in Manila 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines The 
bloodiest anti-government rioting in 
President Ferdinand E. Marcos' 18· 
year rule rocked Manila yesterday, 
leaving at least seven people dead 
and· 150 injured by official count. 
The violence exploded after a pean·ful demonstration by about '500,000 Filipinos in front of Manila's central post office exactly one month after the assassination of Marcos' chiefpolitical rival, Benigno Aquino. 
Street fires and rallies continued 
late into the night in both poor and 
we<~lthy Manila neighborhoods, hut 
the worst violence was on Mendiola 
Bridge leading to Marcos' palatial 
residence. 
Nearly I,000 youths shouting "'Ninoy, Ninoy," Aquino's nickname, thrt·w stone.~ and charged police lines, st·t afire two buse:-; and a dredg­ing crane and threw homemade bombs into police ranks. 
Police at tlrst retreated but then li1ught hack with dubs and gunfire, dearing the rioters and thousands of 



• 
Southweste.n Mo<.hogart~larQest Antiq..eSnowroom 

• 
AniiQUtlS. Culle<.tdbiP.s, & 


Country Cralls 

• Back p,>tch Gate 
Mon Sat. 10 00-6 OC HOURS· . Sun. 12:oo-5·oo 

other students off streets in the uni­
versity district, about a half-mile 
from the palace. 

The dead included two firemen, a 
marine corporal and four civilians, 
the government said. It said at least 
50 riot troops were injured, includ­
ing a brigadier general hit by shrap­
nel from a bomb. 

Injured civilians, including five 
reporters covering the riots, suf­
fered cuts and bruises and wounds 
from shrapnel or bullets. 

Rioters in a neighboring district 
looted and burned a government 
food store where goods arc sold at . disco,Mnted prices. 
Marcos went on national televi­
sion during the rally to say he was 
more saddened than angered by op­
position criticism. His palace later 
issued an appeal for <.·aim and 
promi.~cd continued dialogue and 
"maximum tolerance" in dealing 
with dt·monstrators. 

Mendiola Bridge was the site of a 
1970 student riot in which four 
youths were killed. A popular 
protest song in Tagalog, the Philippine language, calls Mendiola "the road where you can find our freedom." 
At the height ofthe rioting, youths posted a sign reading "Ninoy, you are not alone. We are with you." It was signed UNIDO, for the United Nationalist Democratic Organiza­tion, which organized the Manila ral­ly and others throughout the country. 
The opposition called it a "Day of National Sorrow," but for Marcos it was officially "Thanksgiving Day," the 11th anniversary of his declara­tion of martial law which lasted eight years. Schools had been dis­missed for the observance. 
In the modern suburb of Makati, Manila's business hub, thousands of office workers poured into the streets for the third time in a week to join the call for Marcos' re:-;ignation. 
Others hung "Ninoy" banners from high-rise windows and dumped confetti into the district's wide boulevards as hundreds ofcars flew yellow ribbons and honked dis­approval ofthe government. 
OFF CAMPUS JUNIORS INTERESTED IN BEING A Junior Advisory Council Rep 
contact either: Laura Sizelove 8051 John Olson 6718 By September 30, 1983 



Baby's lungs damaged by mother's smoking 
A.<;sOCiated Press 
BOSTON -Children's lungs do not grow as fast as normal if their mothers smoke cigarettes, and these youngsters may face an increased risk of such breathing diseases as emphysema and bronchitis when they get older, researchers con­clude. 
"I think there is reasonable grounds to advise parents that if it's possible they ought to minimize the extent to which they expose their children w cigarette smoke," said Dr. Ira B. Tager, who directed the study. 
Although the researchers are con· vinced there is a link between mot· hers' smoking and slow lung growth, they are not positive whether breathing smoke-filled air at home is responsible. They said the damage may occur when women smoke during pregnancy. 
. During five years of study, the lungs of noh-smoking children :whose rrlothtfrs smoked grew at 93 _,~rcent i:'ll~ rale'ofthose whose mot­.rs did; nt>t ~hlokc. Children who ~ ~oked we"t{! studied separately. Their lung development also was 
slower when their mothers smoked too. 
"These data suggest that maternal smoking contributes to a reduction in the rate of development of lung function in children and, along with the child's own smoking habits, may be important in the development of chronic obstructive disease of the airways in adult life," the resear­chers wrote. 
The most common varieties of chronic obstructive lun~ disease are chronic bronchitis and emphysema. These diseases cause more than 50,000 deaths each year in the United States. 
The latest study was based on l, 156 children between the a~es of 5 and 9 who lived in East Boston. It was conducted by doctors from Brigham and Women's Hospital, Beth Israel Hospital and Harvard Medical School and was published in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine. 
Once a year, the children took tests that measured the volume of their lun~s. The exams re~istered the amount of air that they could blow out of their lungs in one second. 
The doctors found that smokin~ by the children's fathers had no ef· feet on their lung development. This may have simply meant that they spent less time with their fathers than with their mothers. Or it could mean that their lungs were retarded by smoke exposure while they were still in their mothers' wombs. 
Tager noted that about 20 percent of adults who smoke heavily get disabling lung diseases, while the rest do not. 


Armanao·s Barber & Hair Styje Shop 1437 North Ironwood Drive Sputh Bend. IN 
HOME OF THE IRISH 
Four Stylists to Serve You Five minutes from cam us 
•'CJ'Qowe~ fprr aQQ occagiotlg" 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232-3354 

( ,.~ , '.J

The Observe.r ·pr. .. '•.•) Thursday, September ~2!'J.'983 ..:f!Page;5 
Sandinista rebel priest dies in border skirmish 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -The Rev. James F. Carney, who the Honduran military says died ofexhaustion while fleeing government troops, had gone to Central America three years ago to serve as chaplain to guerrillas, his sister said yesterday. 
Carney, a 58-year-old Roman Catholic priest, "had a deep love of the people and he wanted to minis­ter to them," said Eileen Connolly of suburban Clayton. "He's a very ten­der per~on, but he can't stand in­justice." 
Carney. who told friends he expected to be killed and didn't want his story to die with him, left behind unpublished memoirs, his brother-in-law said. 
The document "describes the situation in Central America as seen by a dedicated priest that has worked with the very, very poor over the past 20 years," said Car­ney's brother-in-law, joe Connolly. 
"But it also has an issue of con­
science on what it means to be a 
priest working in an oppressed 
country in which the human rights 
We still have spots available for Senior Portraits. Call RightAway. 
239-5185 9:30 a.m.-5:00p.m. Patty 3097 Jane,6849 after 6:30 



Goodtime Pizza 836Portage 
FREE DELIVERY 
(ND&SMC) 
232-1883 

Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 4pm -llpm Fri.-Sat. 4pm-lam 
MUST PRESENT COUPON TO DELIVERY PERSON 

Goodtimes to Go 16" Pizza your choice 2 toppings 48 oz. Pepsi, Mountain Dew, or Dr. Pepper 
$9.49 INCLUDESTAX 

Limit One Pizza per Coupon Offer Ends 9-30-83 and needs of the people are not being taken care of," he said. "While it's a very pragmatic, factual story, it's also something of a spiritual odyssey." 
In Honduras, Col. Cesar Elvir Sier­ra said Carney died of exhaustion caused by a lack offood while trying to escape with a rebel force during a government sweep of a moun­tainous area near the Nicaraguan border. His body had not been recovered. 
It was unclear when Carney died. and Sierra would only say that a rebel leader was killed Sunday during the government drive. 
The Rev. Jose Maria Tojeira, the Jesuit superior for Honduras, said he doubted the government's account. Carney, trained as a jesuit, recently resigned from the order but remained a priest, said a jesuit spokesman. 
"He lived with the poor, treated 
them with respect and tried to help 
them regain their land," Mrs. Con­
nolly said of her brother. "He's·a 
hero among the peasants of Hon­
duras. And ifit is true that he is dead, 
he could become a martyr." 

B~Fo~ 
M-

converse custom-shoe specialist Mike Blandini uses a "last jack" to attach a canvas upper to a cemented outsole on a size22 sneaker. Oversized shoes, as well as those built to accommodatefoot imperfections, mustbe completely handmade at the Converse lab in Wilmington, Mass. 

Chemical plant blasts killS in N.C. 
' ....... ~~ Tired of Political Apathy on Campus? ~ Get Involved in the Democratic Process Come to the General 0 rganizational Meeting of the 
Student Lobby Commission 
of the N D Student Government Sunday, September 25 at 4:00 in the Student Offices Second Floor LaFortune 
SAVE$$$ 
2.5 cubic Dormitoty Refrig. 
135.00for School Year Limited Quantities 
BURNS RENT-ALLSINC. 
332 W.MishawakaAve. 
Mishawaka, IN 
259-2833 

Four men were taken to Rowan Memorial Hospital, and two were admitted with second-degree burns, hospital officials said. Five firefighters were treated for smoke inhalation or chemical burns, said Salisbury Fire Chief Fred Shipton. 
About 75 families from a five­block area ofsmall houses bordering downtown Main Street were evacuated as officers rode through the streets with loudspeakers." By 
3:15 p.m., all hut a handful of the evacuees were allowed to return home. 
Anthony Wallace, 21, who lives about two blocks from the plant inside the city limits of this town 22 miles north of Charlotte, said the blast woke him up and blew the front door offhis neighbor's house. 
• • .Reagan 
continuedfrom page 1 
Soviet-sponsored aggression against 
Lebanon is to end and the diplomats 
have a chance to succeed." 
Reagan expressed reservations about a provision in the com­promise dealing with the president's obligations to Congress under the War Powers Act of 1973. But he said . that ifthe House and Senate approve the measure, "It'll send a signal to the world that America will con­tinue to participate in the Multina­tional Force trying to help that nation back on its feet." 
• • .Fall 

continuedfrom page 1 
saw it was 39 degrees outside, the 
coldest Sept. 21 in the Windy City in 
94 years. 
But as the arctic cold front pushed toward the Eastern Seaboard, which had been roasting in record 90­degree heat much of the week, forecasters said that even though summer appeared to be on the ropes, it was coming out for another round. 
"Indian summer is officially inter­preted to be when there are above normal temperatures after we've had the first freeze," Irving said. 
Associated Press 
SALISBURY, N.C. -A powerful explosion followed by three smaller blasts rocked a chemical plant yes­terday, setting fire to a factory build­ing and forcing the evacuation of a surrounding five-block area Four people were injured. 
Firefighters searched the burning building and found no bodies, said Rowan County Fire Marshal Robert Gunn. Company officials initially told police that five people were killed, said Ann Cole, records super­visor for the Salisbury Police Depart­ment. 
Henry Barry, a spokesman for National Starch and Chemical Co., owner of the plant through its Proc­tor Chemical division, said it was "unlikely" that any of the 60 employees was missing after the 
11:15 a.m. explosion, which was followed by three smaller blasts and a fire. 
Thursday, September 22, 1983 -page 6





Vieweoint 
Good reasons to worry about computers 
!.ike it or not, computers are her e to stay. With their floppy disks, silicon chips, and cathode ray tuhes, they have become as American as hascball, hot dogs, apple pie, and Toyotas. 
Keith Picher 
Weekend philosopher 
Though the automata are more popular than cvt.>r, many people still sull"er from com· puterphobia. They sec the device as a deus ex machina rather than a machina ex deo. 
Perhap~ a short ca~c history would il· lustrate the point. All of The Observer's clas· sified ad~ must be entered into our computer by the person placing the ad. 
One young woman squeamishly sat down in front of the Hazeltine 1420 terminal the other day with a look of horror on her face. 
Though the instructions for entering ads are clearly displayed on the screen, she typed the information like a person defusing a bomb. Every time she pressed the return key, the screen startled her with new information. Finally she left, having sweat off a few pounds during the ordeal. 
Though many fear computers, others are overly enthusiastic about the machines. "Computer heads," as they are frequently dubbed, tend to see computers as cure-ails. 
"War Games," one of the summer's hottest box o·ffice items, praised the ingenuity ofsuch computer hackers. Though a bit preachy, the film addresses questions about the recreation· al and political use of computers, warning us that they are no better t11an their human programmers. 
Computers, like any form oftechnology, are not evil in themselves. They can simplify man's laborious and non-rewarding work. They can also store filedrawers ofinformation invisably. 
The advance of data storage techniques, though an aide to the professional, does raise 
serious questions about civil liberties and 
privacy. A recent article by Dorothy Samuels, 
former director of the New York Civil 
Liberties Union, looks at the implications of data storage in government institutions. The article (The New York Times, September 12) lists several instances of questionable practices. 
In New York state, drivers who lose their license for drunken driving must answer a questionaire about their sex lives to have their license reinstated. The results are stored in computer files until someone decides to delete them. 
The Internal Revenue Service recently an· nounced plans to cross-check "life style" data from various business services with their own tax records. In other words, a person who voluntarily answers a survey for research purposes could be nabbed by the IRS. 
The Federal Naturalization and Immigra· tion Service wanted access to the New York City Board of Education's file of a million stu· dents last year. If they had succeeded, they would have searched for Spanish surnames in order to track down illegal aliens. 
Information which was formerly hidden somewhere in file cabinets can be accessed now at the touch ofa button. Our records are no lon~er thrown away or lost, but are held indefinitely on magnetic disks. Anyone with enough knowledge can obtain information about other's lives without getting caught. 
Until steps are taken to improve computer 
security, and to punish unauthorized use of 
data, personal privacy will be compromised. 
Viewing such information is as much a viola· 
tion of of privacy as Peeping Tom's glance at 
Lady Godiva. 
Now if you'll excuse me, I've got to log off 
before our system crashes. 
Keith Picher is a senior philosophy major 
from Winthrop, Maine. He is The Observer's 
Viewpoint editor. 


Why Notre Dame should offer Chinese 
In Det·ember l9'H, the United States for· mally t·xtendc:d diplomatic relations to the People'~ Hcpublic of China. Thus they ended an illusionary thirty year policy of not recognizing the most populous country on earth. 
Francis J. James 
Guest Columnist 
Mainland China has undergone phenomenal change-" in the short period of time since this historic decision and has pressed on with its policy ofthe '"four moder· nizations." These modernizations include change in t·ducation, the military, science, and agriculture. The ~oal is to make China a modern nation by the turn of the century. Hy gradually opening the "bamboo curtain," 
China is opening itself to and welcoming the 
influence of foreign husiness, technology, and 
ideas which will affect the country and the rest ofAsia profoundly. 
The University of Notre Dame seems ready to capitalize on this sud~en warming of rela· tions by establishing a summer language program in Tianjun, the third largest city in China. The paradox of all Notre Dame's good will and intention is that it does not offer the language on campus as a degree matriculating course. How can the University expect to en· courage students to participate in this program without even offering significant prepartory and continuing studies of the Chinese language? Will people make a sig· nificant investment of money, time, and effort to take a six week intensive course in China and then return to campus to forget it all? 
Until this year, Notre Dame had a little· 
known yet viable program in Taipei, Taiwan. Thus, a few interested students could pursue a year of study abroad, in Asia, studying the Chinese language and culture. All students returning from Foreign Study Programs can expect to continue studying their respective languages, and often end up majoring or double majoring in that language. On the other hand, students wishing to continue their studies in Chinese cannot. What are their options? What are they to do? 
Though the administration maintains that over the years there hasn't been much consis· tent interest, one need only look at the Japan program. For years it was languishing with very few students, but .,Jud4enly it has blossomed into a full scale language program due toJapan's important economic position in 
the world and our need to communicate with 
it. Similarly, with China's gradual emergence in the modern day world, its vast population, and its immense potential, the need and the interest in Chinese is here today. 
If the University wishes to make this sum· mer program a successful one, it should first start by offering Chinese here in Notre Dame, Indiana and not half way around the world. 
Can the University, and the United States for that matter, afford not to know a language spoken by one in four persons? Learn Chinese! 
Francisjjames is a third-yeargovernment and Asian studies majorfrom Buffalo, New York. Francis spent last year studying in Taiwan and traveling in China. 

P.O.Box-Q 
ciple, then he should worry about his own leaders, not about ours. Given Mr. Brauer's
Sidewalks 
principle, nationality is relevant. That is one of Dear Editor: the reasons l think he should reject it. l hoped to show this by showing that it led to absurd In rdercnce to an earlier editorial maxims, such as "Foreigners have no right to 
commt·nting on the increased concrete on criticize America." Unfortunately, Mr. Kellen· campus, I would like to point out that Notre herg somehow thought that these absurdities Damt· ~pt·nt the entire summer (you weren't were my arguments! hne ) assidou....ly watering all its sidewalks all I certainly did not mean to suggest that the 
night long. Small wonder, then, that new shortcomings of {;erman or Austrian leaders patcht·-" of concrete have sprung up all over are worse than those of American leaders. I the place. Plet-"e tell editorial staff to be more spent three years in Munich working closely 
re....pectfully cognizant of tht·sc new landsctp· with the Germans on our common defense ing tedmi4ue..... and have a ~reat deal of respect for the Ger· Stephenjordan man people. Mr. Kellenberg is right that racism is not yet gone, but ifhe rereads what I wrote I think he

Misunderstood 
will agree that his accusations stemmed from a regrettable misunderstanding. 
Dear Editor: Kenneth W. Kemp
I am surprised at Mr. John Kellenberg's misreading of my recent letter to your Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the newspaper. I did not make, nor did I intend, editor is subject to the dai~y constraints of ;my 'racial' slurs or "brash statements about the page. /.etters should be brief and deal past <;t·rman or Austrian leaders,' as a careful with specific issues. They must be typed and reading ofthe letter will show. hear the address, telephone number, and 
The issue was Mr. Brauer's consistency in signature ofthe author. Initials and pseudo· condemning the protestors on the grounds nyms are unacceptable. Reproductions, car· that Americans should he concerned only bon copies, or letters addressed to persons about their own faults. If he accepts that prin· other than the editor are not acceptable. 

f 
jA SHORT TIME AGO IN A GALAXY NOT SO FAR AWAY •.• 
Department Managers 



Ihe_._Qbseaer======= !?r!!~:~~~e~.0 ~~~ 
. ......... David Dziedzic Uox (J. Nt•trt' namt'. I.'V ·16'5'56 (.!I')) .!3') '>303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
Tht' Ohsert•t>r i~ rlu-imkpc:ndt·nt nt·w~papc:r publi...,hnl hv the ....rudent~ of the Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas \Tr-"11\" ol Notrt· l>aml" du l.ac ami Saint ,'\1an....., Colle~t· II dot·-" nor m·n·....~arilv reflect News Editor ................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen lht· pohut·-" ol the adminiMration of t•uher in.... ritution. Tht· new..., i..., rc:portt·d a.... at· News Editor . ................. ~ark Worscheh Composi(ion Manager . ........ Suzau110:: i..a Croix curatl'ly and a.... objt·cti\Tiv a.... ("l(l-"-"ihk l n....igned c:ditonab rt·pre....enl the opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto ma1oruy olthe h.luonal Board <:ommentarie~. leHt·r..... and the lnsitk <:olumn present Features Editor . ............... Sarah H~mj,J,tp.'1 System Manager ............... Kevin Williams tht· \"Jt·w~ oltht·•r author., <.olumn ....pan· i..., a\·ailahlc: to all members ofthe t·ommunity. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower and tht·lrtT t·xprt·"i<m of varnng opinitHl-" on campu..... through letter~ .•., encouraged. Sports Editor ... . . .......... \1ich;tel Sullivan. 
Founded November 3, 1<;66 


Sports Briefs 
All interested varsity athletes, club sport members, managers, and cheerleaders are invited to attend an intro­ductory meeting for NO-NCAA Volunteers For Youth. The meeting will take place Sunday, September 25, at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Social Concerns. This progrqam is concerned with befriending junior high school youth in the community. -The Ob­
server 
Tryouts for women's baseballwm beheld on Monday, September 26, in the ACC Pit at 7 p.m. For more informa­tion, call 239-5420. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Biking Club will be meeting for its first outing on Sunday, September 25, at 2 p.m. at the Lyons basketball courts. This will be a preliminary ride in preparation for the upcoming trip to Warren Dunes on Oc­tober 1, and a short meeting will follow. Prospective members are welcome. Any questions may be directed to Frank Voegle at 283­3504 or Laura Sizelove at 283-8051. -The Observer 
·); 
The NO Women's Tennis Team breezed to a victory over Rosary yesterday, winning by a 9-0 score. The victory was the sixth in as many matches for the 6Irish.Junior Pam Fischette remained undefeated with a 6-0 record, overwhelming Liz Syvertsen 6-0, 6-0.JoAnn Biafore, Laura Lee, and Lisa Gleason won by identical scores in singles matches, while Susie Panther and Lisa LaFratta dropped only one game each in their set victories. -The Observer 
All interested in officiating either women's fla~ football or soccer, please stop by the Non-Varsity Athletics office or call at 239-6100.-The Obsen1er 
Thursday, September 22, 1983 -page 7 
First move in new league 
USFL's Generals change hands 
NEW YORK (AP)-The NewJer­sey Generals are the first team in the year-old United States Football League to change hands, reportedly having been sold to Donald Trump, a New York real estate mogul whose interests include a soon-to-be opened gambling casino. 
Published and televised reports yesterday said that Oklahoma oil­man]. Walter Duncan, who owns 90 percent ofthe Generals and was one of the league's original owners, had sold the team to Trump. No pur­chase price was mentioned. 
Duncan reportedly had lost inter­est in owning a football team and had become more involved in his other business enterprises. 
Trump, 36, heads the Trump Or­ganization, which is a co-partner with Holiday Inns Inc. in the Har­rah's Boardwalk Hotel and Casino at Atlantic City, N.J., which is slated to open next sprin~. Gary Kaplan, assis­tant counsel to the USFL, said last night he would not discuss the im­plications of Trump's connection with the casino. 
The Generals made their biggest splash when they signed Heisman Trophy winner Herschel Walker to a S5 million, three-year contract, reportedly the richest deal in pro football history. The team was 
strongly  criticized  for  signing  
Walker,  who  had  one  year  of  
eligibility left.  
Generals  season  ticket  sales  

splurged following the signing to close to 35,000 season tickets. But the team stumbled on the field, finishing with a 6-12 record and drew an average of about 33,000 fans per game in the 76,000-seat stadium. 
USFL commissioner Chet Sim­mons has said that the 12 original USFL teams, who paid $2 million each to join the league, lost between $20 million and $30 million last year with the Generals losing a reported S3 million. Six expansion teams will begin play next year in Memphis, Jacksonville, Oklahoma City, Pitts­burgh, Houston and San Antonio, having paid $6 million each to join the league. 
Lonn Berney, a New York attor­ney, said last week he headed a group that was close to an agree­ment to purchase the Generals for S9 million and move them to New 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
W L 
Baltimore 94 57 Detroit 86 66 New York 84 67 Toronto 84 69 Milwaukee 81 71 Boston 74 79 Cleveland 66 85 
West Chicago 91 61 Kansas C~y 73 78 Texas 73 79 Oakland 69 84 California 67 85 
Minnesota 65 87 Seattle 56 95 
Yesterday's Results Baltimore 6-7, Detro~ 0·3 California 3, Kansas C~y 0 Texas 4, Oakland 2 Milwaukee 10, Cleveland 7 Boston 3, New York 1 Toronto 4, Seattle 3 Chicago 2-7, Minnesota 1-6 
York. Duncan, however, denied the deal and insisted he would not sell to anyone who intended to move the Generals. 
Trump has been a power for near­ly a decade in the interrelated worlds of New York City real estate ... 
and politicians. 
His hotel and apartment projects in Manhattan include the new Hyatt Hotel over Grand Central Station and the still-under-construction covention center. But his crowning achievement is the plush Trump Tower, combining 13 floors of offices and chic boutiques with 49 stories of condominiums ranging in price from $500,000 to S1.2 million. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
East  
Pet.  GB  W  L  Pet.  GB  
.623  -Philadelphia  81  70  .536  - 
.566  8.5 Montreal  79  72  .523  2  
.556  10 Pittsburgh  79  73  .520  2.5  
.549  11 St. Louis  74  78  .487  7.5  
.533  13.5 Chicago  68  84  .447  13.5  
.484  21 New York  62  90  .408  19.5  
.437  28  West  
Los Angeles  87  65  .572  - 
.599  -Atlanta  82  68  .547  4  
.483  17.5 Houston  79  72  .523  7.5  
.480  1 8 San Diego  76  76  .500  11  
.451  22.5 San Francisco  73  79  .480  14  
.441  24 Cincinnati  69  82  .457  17.5  
.428  26  
.371  34.5  Yesterday's Results  
Chicago 7, Pittsburgh 6  
San Francisco 5, San D1ego 4  
Atlanta 9-3, Cincinnati 1-4  
St. Louis 9, New York 3  
Philadelphia at Montreal. ppd., rain  
Los Angeles 2, Houston 1  

Fhe Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per
Classifieds seven characters, per day. 
RIDE  NEEDED  TO  CHICAGO  NAVYGA'sNEED2-5call ED 1068  JUNIORS  JUNIORS:JUNIOR  CLASS  COME ONE -COME ALL THE FIRST  
NOTICES  FOR RENT  NORTHWEST SUBURBS. CAN LEAVE AFTER 11 A.M. 9/23 AND RETURN 9/25  NEED USC GA AND STUD TIX CALL  RIVERBOAT CRUISE AND DINNER SAI 24 TICKETS AVAILABLE THIS  SAINT MARY'S FIVE HALL DANCE IS THIS SATURDAY NIGHT IN THE HAG·  
CALL2785.  JOHN 1852  .,_ W~ THI.ft f'AI ~t-.1,2:00-1:30 IN lA  GAR COLLEGE CENTER 9 p.m. -2 a.m.  
FORTUNE 5$ PER PERSON  NO MEN AMD WOMEN ARE FREE AND  
TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082.  FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO ND  I NEED A RIDE TO PITTSBURGH SEPT.  I NEED 6 PENN STATE AND FOUR  ONLY  ONE  DOLLAR  FOR  SAINT  
2773804  23RD CALL LINDA MORAY X5026  SOUTH CAROLINA TICKETS AS SOON  HEY ALL YOU PETE SEEGER FANS!!  MARY'S  WOMEN.  COME  SEE  THE  
ACCENT Your Understanding  ..............................:...................................  AS POSSIBLE. WILLING TO PAY TOP  COME TO F.L.O.C.'S FIRST MEETING  NEW COLLEGE CENTER!  
NEED RIDE TO MIAMI(OHIO) OR U. OF  $$$FOR PENN STATE TIX. CALL 284­ THIS THURS., SEPT. 22 AT 700 PM IN  
PIANO OR FRENCH HORN LESSONS? UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MUSIC GRADUATE, TWO YEARS TEACHING EXPERIENCE WITH AGES 6 TO 50. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 287­0757. DRUMMERS!!!!!, Established rock and  WANTED NEED RIDE TO MUNCIE.IN ON SEPT.23 WILL SHARE USUAL CALL X1474 ASK FOR GARY  CINCINNATI ON SEPT. 23 CALL MARY JANE 8136. TICKETS  PLEASE  4351 (KELLY) HEY DUDES I HAVE 2 PITT GA'S THAT I AM WILLING TO TRADE FOR 2 USC GA'S. I AM ALSO LOOKING FOR 1 MORE USC GA. IF INTERESTED CALL BRIAN AT 1165  THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON· CERNS TO FIND OUT ABOUT PETE'S BENEFIT CONCERT FOR F.L.O.C. ACCENT YOUR LIFE GERRY FAUST -It's beginn1ng to look a lot like Christmas! Signed, Terry  Lisa & Tim: WRITE ME A LETTER, YOU BUFUS. I miss you! Love, Marya Interested in working overseas?? Join AIESECII Meeting Thursday (today) 5pm Flanner foodsales. Pizza will be served. T1red of the same old d1nmg hall food???  
roll band IS searching a serious versatile percussionist. Contact-Dan Meak1n 277­3306 or Jim 283-6601.  riders needed, U of !(Champaign) Leave 9/23 Return 9/25 Call Mike 277-4463 af­ Desperately need Penn State game tick· ets. Call Brian at 8795.  NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC AND/OR PITT OR AIR FORCE. CALL JIM AT 1501  Brennan  Why not aHend the AIESEC meeting tonight at 5pm in Flanner Foodsales. You can eat pizza and learn about h"ow  
ter?  OSTATEGAME. CALL SCOTT AT 1219.  AlE SEC can help you to work overseas.  
Come see the Irish Cross-country team race Northwestern Saturday at noon on the Golf Course.  VOLLEYBALL Good setter wishes to be added to a com­petitive intramural V-ball team. Call Steve  NEED 2 USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6981 HELP! NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR  Need 4 GA tickets for USC Game. Please call OD at 277-5214.  CROSS-COUNTRY I CROS5-COUNTRYI  GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT! ORDER A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINEII WE NOW  
at 277-8785.  G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309  CROS5-COUNTRYI  DELIVER MON-SAT 9-12pm CALL 272­ 
1 LOST/FOUND I  WANTED: A NEW AND SOMEWHAT EXPERIMENTAL SYNTHESIZER· BASED GROUP ONLY NEEDS A  NEED USC TIX. PLEASE CALL 8584. I NEED SO. CAROLINA TIX. CALL  PERSONALS  Saturday at noon at the Golf Course See "The African Queen" on Thursday  4453 SHERI, KARl & BARB, THANKS A MIL­LION GIRLS! YOU USED US FOR A  
FOUND One Chemistry 115L Lab Card In Huddle. Call John at 1747 to claim. FOUND· TAN NYLON CLIP-ON CASE W/2 PIPES & AN EMPTY 35mm FILM BOX IN PARKING LOST ACROSS FROM LIBRARY. PICK UP AT LOST & FOUND IN LIBRARY. FOUND BOOK BACKPACK, CALL 1071 EVENINGS AND IDENTIFY. found .. set of keys on a gold ND.keycham 1n 103 business adm1mstration at 1·00  PROFICIENT AND TALENTED DRUM­MER WITH OVERTONES OF INTEL­LIGENCE IN ORDER TO PLAY NEU DANSE MUSIK. PLEASE CALL ROB AT 233-4210 OR DAVE AT 277-1326 FOR DETAILS. SOBEIT. FOR SALE I· FOR SALE G. E. 14" COLORT.V, MAR· TIN D-18 GUITAR WITH CASE, ETRRR STEREO SPEAKERS, ZENITH  MAUREEN AT 8024 HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 Need 10 G.A.'s to the U.S.C. game. Will pay any amountfor tickets. They need not be together. Please call Dan at 1779. Willing to trade 5 (FIVE) PITT tickets for ONLY 4 (FOUR) USC tickets. Call 1723 AskforKev. USC-NO tix wanted. Paying most. (312) 246-4650.  CAMBRIDGE DIET PLAN • meetings, personalized couseling, FREEl Cambridge Center, 256-5400. Clip this ad for savings! Banquet Room availab4e at LOUIE'S FAMILY RESTAURANT, 744 N. Notre Dame Ave., South Bend. Have your club meetings, birthday parties ... For informa­tion call 233-4044. Any type of FILM for only $.50. Call1312 for more information. NEED MONEY? LIKE A CHALLENGE?  and Friday in the Engineering Auditorium. For only S1.00 you can see Kathryn Hep· burn and Humphrey Bogart in this great classic. Remember--only $1.00 for "The African Queen" at 7,9, and 11 this Thursday and Friday. GROOMS IS GONE, KIEL ISN'T ON. COME ON GER, GIVE US LEZONIII WHO IS THAT MAN BENT OVER AND HIDING BEHIND THE BAR? COULD IT BE THE FAMOUS BARTEN­DER.. .WOODY GRAF? PROBABLY\ Reminder ... LUCK 0' THE IRISH Com­ CHEAP THRILL ONE NIGHT BUT DIDN'T RESPECT US IN THE MORN­ING. I KNOW THIS IS A LOW SLIDE IT IN SOMEHOW. FONDLING YOURS, J. ANDS.&M. MAUREEN NINNEMAN· CAN'T KEEP MY EYES OFF YOU IN MARKETING! HOPE I'LL BE ABLE TO SEE YOU "AFTER HOURS" SOON! L.L. COME CLAIM YOUR BOXERS 5-8 FRIDAY 201 BP BOXER BANDITS DEAR DAN; WHERE'S MY INVITE TO THE LOVE PALACE? ADELE  
Mon. call Beth at 794 7  BINOCULARS, 2 PAIR SNOWSHOES,  NEED 3 USC TICKETS PLEASE CALL  TURN  YOUR  SPARE  TIME  INTO  petition Color Guard is holding ~s first  
STEREO HEADPHONES. CALL DAVE  RICARDO 277-0583  MONEY I Groupsor Individuals nMded  practice Sunday at 9:30 a.m. in Stepan  MAUREEN  MOORE  ALIAS  MARIA  
REWRITE LOST· THOMAS HOBBE'S LEVIATHAN & RICHARD TAYLOR'S  AT 272-0387.  MUST  HAVE  USC  TIX--MONEY  NO  to promote college vacation tours. For more Information: Call 414 781..()455,  Center -Newcomers we/come/11 Call Bill at 1392 for info.  ANDRETTI HAS DONE IT AGAIN­HOW'S THAT FOR CONSISTENCY?  
METAPHYSICS,  PROBABLY  IN  Couch, chair, T.V.. for sale, CHEAPI272­ OBJECT--NEED UP TO SIX GAS. CALL  or  Write:  DESIGNERS OF TRAVEL,  ROOM IS STILL AVAILABLE  IN HER  
O'SHAG. CALL THERESE AT 8050  3605.  CHRIS AT t 234-7279 ANYTIME.  4025 N. 124th StreM,Brooklleld,  WI  DRIVING  SCHOOL  HOWEVER.  THIS  
53005.  Purdue Legs, Quick put your arm around  WEEKS FOCUS IS ON CLEARING THE  
LOST· Zeiss Icon camera, in a brown  Yard sale, 813 Ashland Ave., Sept. 24  NEED USC GA'S NOW--CALL CHRIS  me. Yes, that's himl Yeah, we go way  SIDEWALK  OF  PEDESTRIANS  AND  
casing. Very used and old looking Has  and 25. Fumrture,clothing, home goods.·  AT234-7279  NEED 2,3 OR 4 TICKETS FOR USC OR  back. Go Heights! That's a stupid place  SCARING THE HELL OUT OF AGED  
great sentimental value. Call Mimi (616)  Everything must go.  PITT GAME.  I AM DESPERATE AND  for  a  wardrobe!  How  'bout  another  PRIESTS.  CALLNOW  TO  RESERVE  
699·7272  NEED USC TIX FOR A GOOD CAUSE.  WILLING TO PAY. WE'RE TALKING BIG  Kamikazi-yuml Hey good lookin', or have  YOUR SPACE.  IN THE MEAN TIME,  
CALL TOM AT 1748.  BUCKSICALLMOAT 1311.  you been told. Deep sigh. Did that thing  LOOK OUT FOR A TAN VAN WITH A  
move or was~ just me? Oh well. I jump tor  WILD WOMAN IN THE DRIVER'S SEAT.  
LOST· Keys on a Wimb4edon key ring in the NAZZ or near LaFortune on Saturday  RIDES~  Rich '83 ND grad needs 2 USC tickets-­student or GA. If you can help, call Dave  THE FIRST GENERAL MEETING FOR F.L.O.C. (FARM LABOR ORGANIZING  two rings. Happy 19th. Love, the Lady in the Graveyard.  KIRK SHAMLEY: YOUR CAT IS DEAD  
night. Please call Karen at 6293 if found.  ~-~···\ ~~····· ........·-~.,.~.-~.....:.•...........,''l"'''··.-··..  at 1615.  COMMITTEE) WILL BE HELD THIS THURS., SEPT. 22 AT 7:00PM IN THE  MEATill  
LOST­BLACK CANON SNAPPY 20 CAMERA AT GREEN FIELD ON SAT..  I NEED A RIDE TO INDIANA U. SEPT. 23-25 WllL COMPENSATE  HELP  CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. ALL ARE WARMLY WELCOME.  ROMPER ROOM UVES/11  Mention all BRIDGE players:  
SEPT. 17. REWARD. CALL CYNTHIA AT 234-9456.  GENEROUSLY. CALL PAUL 6602. A RICH friend Is In desperate need oftwo ............................:...............:.......,....·um:sh 1 PITTSBURGH GA'a. Please help an old  ACCENT Your Interests  My Dearest Loch, I truly miss you w~h all my heart. Wish you were here, but I know  There will b6 a meeting for all those in­terested in dumping the Miss Manners  
HELP\ I need a nde to Ch1cago "l'naay  friend out of a jam bycaiNng Sari at 277·  we'll be together soon. I love you I Yours  column from the Observer. All concerned  
LOST: GOLF UMBRELLA, BLACK I  9/23. Please call Tom at 1738.  1326. You will be richly rewarded.  Desperate isn't the word, I NEED, really  Always and Forever, Kat  readers are urged to attend. The meeting  
RED WITH RED HANDLE. WAS IN BLACK COVER WHICH SAID IN WHITE  N~d.'.'~~··;;;,-;tt;~;~·Q';;i~-~~~;·:r~~~-~i'k~  NEEo"4"ii;"5"'GA's..FoFi"iiN'v"Ciii'M'E  NEED a ticket to the PITT game. I'm not particular, I'll take a student or GA.  Mergatroid • Have a shwell b-dayl We  will be held in Margaret Fosmoe's office. Featured speaker will be the renowned  
LETTERS  "ABERGLASS  SHAFT'.  Exit 7 on Sept. 30. No return trip needed.  COULD MEAN  EMPLOYMENT.  CALL  Please, call1311 and offer to sell me your  love you; you nutl Fondly, your Raggazzi  bridge expert, Allred Shelnwold.  
CALL ANDY 15711.  Call AI at 3889.  STEVE AT 232·0550.  ticket. Will pay big bucks.  friends and Norman  

The Observer 
Major League Baseball 
.. Orioles nearing AL East title 
DETROIT (AP) John Lowenstein blasted a grand slam with two outs in the ninth inning and Joe Nolan followed with anoth­er home run, capping a six-run out­burst and rallying the Baltimore Orioles to a 7-3 victory over the Detroit Tigers and a sweep of their twi-night double-header yesterday. 
The sweep increased Baltimore's lead over second-place Detroit to eight games in the AI. East. The Orioles' magic number is now three. Baltimore has I I games remaining this season ;md Detroit has I 0 left. 
In the opener, :\iike Boddicker pitched a five-hitter and Eddie Mur­ray, Cal Ripken and Lowenstein each homered to give Baltimore a 6-0 tri­umph. 
The Orioles trailed 5·1 going into the ninth inning of the second game hut loaded the bases against reliever Dave Gumpert, 0-2, on a walk to pinch-hitter Jim Dwyer and singles byJohn Shelby and Dan Ford. 
Reliever Aurelio Lopez then 
threw a wild pitch, pulling Bal­
timore within one, 3·2. Ripken then 
popped up, Murray was intentional­
ly walked to reload the bases and 
Mike Young struck out. 
But Lowenstein put the Orioles ahead by belting an 0-1 pitch into the upper deck in right field for his 14th home run ofthe season and his second grand slam ofthe year. Nolan followed with his fourth homer, also to the: upper deck in right. 
Winner Sammy Stewart, 9-3, pitched the final three innings. 
Atl. 9·3, Cin. 1·4 
ATlANTA (AP) -Ron Oester's sacritke fly scored Gary Redus in the ninth inning to give the Cincin­nati Reds a 4-3 victory over the At­lanta Braves and a split of their double-header yesterday. 
The Braves won the first game 9-1 behind the five-hit pitching of Craig McMurtry and the power hitting of Chris Chambliss and Dale Murphy. 
The split dropped the Braves four games behind Los Angeles, who defeated Houston 2· 1. 
Redus led off in the ninth of the nightcap with a double off reliever Steve Bedrosian, 9-9. After Dave Concepcion struck out, Dan Dries­sen and Paul Householder walked to load the bases, setting the stage for Oester's fly to left. 
Tom Hume, 3·'5, pitched two scoreless innings for the victory. 
In the opener, McMurtry, who needed I0 decisions to record his I :\th victory, struck out four and walked four in improving his record to 14-9. 
Murphy hit his .~'5th homer, a three-run blast that chased Cincin­nati starter Charlie Puleo, '5-I I, in tht' third inning. Chambliss followt_.d with his 19th, against reliever Rich Galt·. 

L.A. 2, Hou. 1 
LOS ANGELES ( AP)-Bill Russell 
lined a double down the left field 
line to score Steve Sax from second 
base with two outs in the seventh in­
ning, breaking a 1-1 tie, and Los An­
geles went on to defeat Houston 2-1 
last night. 
Fernando Valenzuela, 14-10, scat­
tered six hits to break a personal 
four-game losing streak, the longest 
of his career. The Los Angeles left­
hander struck out seven and walked 
three in earning his first victory 
since Aug. 20. 
The: victory, coupled with At­lanta's double-header split with Cin­cinnati, enabled the Dodgers to improve their National League West lead to four games over the Braves. The Dodgers' magic number is eight with 10 games left. 
Sax had an infield single with two 
outs in the seventh off loser Vern 
Ruhle, 8-4. Sax stole second, his 
second steal ofthe game and 49th of 
the season, before Russell doubled 
him home. 
Los Angeles won the season series 
from Houston, 12-6. 
Chi. 7, Pit. 6 
CHICAGO (AP) -Jody Davis' sacrifice fly and Larry Bowa's infield single drove in the tying and win­ning runs in the seventh inning yes­terday and lifted the Chicago Cubs to a 7-6 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
It marked Pittsburgh's lOth straight loss in Chicago, including eight this season. 
Reliever Fergie Jenkins, 6-9, posted his 284th career victory and Lee Smith picked up his 28th save. Reliever Cecilio Guante, 2-5, took the loss. 
Richie Hebner had helped the Pirates take a 6-5 lead with his fifth homer in the sixth inning and a two­run double in the seventh. 
But Mel Hall was hit by a pitch to open the bottom of the inning and Ron Cey singled. Keith Moreland sacrificed the runners along and Davis' fly to right scored one run. Pinch-hitter Jay Johnstone walked intentionally and Bowa beat out an infield hit as Cey scored the lead run from third. 
Chi. 2·7, Min. 1·6 
CHICAGO ( AP) -Scott Fletcher 
doubled home Tom Paciorek from 
second base with one out in the bot­
tom of the ninth to give the Chicago 
White Sox a 7-6 win over the Min­
nesota Twins and a sweep of their 
twi-night double-header yesterday. 
In the opener, Harold Baines ripped an RBI single in the seventh inning to give LaMarr Hoyt a major­league leading 22 wins as Chicago won 2-l. It was Hoyt's 11th con­secutive victory. 

Paciorek began the ninth inning of 
the second game by drawing a walk 
from Ron Davis, 5-8, the fourth Min­
nesota pitcher, and took second on 
Ron Kittle's single. Fletcher's double 
made a winner ofGuy Hoffman, 1-0, 
who got the final in the top of the 
inning. 
The loser of the opener was Ken 
Schrom, 13-8. Hoyt, 22-10, went the 
distance for the IIth time. yielding 
seven hits, striking out four and 
walking three. 
St. L. 9, N.Y. 3 
ST. LOUIS ( AP) -John Stuper pitched a five-hitter and drove in two runs with two singles, leading St. Louis to a 9-.3 victory over the New York Mets last night to end the Cardinals' seven-game losing streak. It was the Cards' first win since Sept. 14. 
Stuper's two hits came at the ex­pense of New York right-hander Mike Torrez, 9·1 7. David Green singled three times, scored twice and drove in three runs to back Stuper's sixth complete game. Stuper is now 11-10. 
Bos. 3, N.Y. 1 
BOSTON (AP) -Tony Armas belted his 34th home run and south· paw Bobby Ojeda earned his fifth consecutive victory as the Boston Red Sox edged the New York Yankees 3-1 last night. 
Armas homered off George Frazier, the third New York pitcher, to start the eighth. The drive far over the screen atop the left field wall gave Armas I 00 runs batted in this season. 
Ojeda, 11-7, and winner of six of his last seven starts since Aug. 22, gave up 10 hits before giving way to reliever Bob Stanley in the eighth. Stanley chalked up his 31st save. 
The Red Sox jumped on starter Bob Shirley, 5-7, with one out in the second. Nichols singled and scored on Glenn Hoffman's towering double off the left field wall. Jerry Remy then doubled home Hoffman. 
S.F. 5, S.D. 4 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Dave Bergman, a late-inning defensive re­placement, belted a two-out, two­run homer in the bottom of the ninth, lifting the San Francisco Giants to a 5-4 victory over the San Diego Padres. ­
Thursday, September 2,2.,1Q.83 -i;rpage_8 


NVA Pairings 
MIXED DOUBLES All matches must be played and reported by today. 
Reid-Gonzales (277-7651) v. Gee-Jones (1022) 
Marten-Morrow (6640) v t . bye 
Moore-O'Bryan (7870) v. bye 
Reyes-Schwebel (1372) v. bye 
Gotuaco-Villalon (3329) v. Niii-Fay (1268) 
Reusch-Carol (1073) v. Callis-O'Grady (1288) 
Clifford-Locke (8171) v. Kelly-Toal (1073) 
Sternltcke-Dolan (7891) v. Gardiner-Sloane (8846) 
Huebi-Campbell (3238) v. Russeii-Russell/2895) 
Rade-McEiroy (1504) v. Jacoby·PICO (2966) 
lmmonen-lmmonen (3091) v. Cooke-Schmell (3316) 
Thompson-Rodgers (6965) v. G•o)ean-Mohnsky 
(1248) 
Goulet-Duvet 1277-7563) v. Para1so-Dougherty 
(1271) 
Klosart-Lynch (1898) v. Stavetsk1-Stephen (88951 
Wall-Hagaman ( 1195) v. Ba•ley-Cons1d1ne (3842) 
Reardon-Bayle (8686) v. McG1nn-Tomkow1tz (8173) 
Curtis-Dalton (7443) v. Taneff-Kohlhass 11129) 
Sobczak-Delapena (1639) v. Benner-Zalud (1474) 
Szatkowski-Szat (8852) v. Swiecish (277-4181) 
Olive-Bailey (1596) v. Com-SchaHer (6803) Cleveland-Gailus (4514) v. Farley-Cameron (8191) Kelly-Holbauer (1606) v. Callaway-Rrtch1e (1527) Ganshirt-Cortes (1785) v. O'Bnen-Aime1da (1692) Lavoie-Kelly (8622) v. Chandoer-Bereslka (7850) Bond·D1mello (1027) v. Meager-Greene (234-9914) Krenzer-Eversoll (8016) v. Deeter-Lechner (1963) 
Randaii-Rosenstre (3417) v. Kaelin-Rowbury (1416) 
Deleo-Deren (234-6496) v. Sacre-Bery ( 1177) 
Runger-Schmid (1432) v. bye 
Bosco-Upda v. bye 
Walters-Collins (3334) v. bye 
Poirier-Ukraine (1471) v. bye 
All matches are to be played and reJ>Orted to the NVA off1ce by Thursday, September 29. WOMEN'S TENNIS SINGLES 
Hemmer (2649) v. Bhssert (6739) Sommers (3618) v. Ehman (2964) Alme1da (6722) v Rawson (7859) Zimmerman (6736) v. Demello (1326) Molinsk• (1248) v. Keller 12191) Sternllzke 17891) v. Sw1ecish (277-4181) Gordon (6966) v. Delapena (1349) Demello v. Becker Thompson v bye Mulholland (1364) v Farabaugh (21 86) Bailey 12985) v. Ramos (1322) McGinnis (6037) v. Wong 14208) lmmonen 13091) v. Yepsen (1327) Konesky (1291) v Kohlhaas (6834) Co1n (6803) v. Para1so 11271) Rozic (6727) v. Cleveland (4514) 
MEN'S NOVICE SINGLES 
Lukas1ak (8272) v. Pernas (3268) Kennaugh (4627) v. Bernhardt (3455) Biage11i (1067) v. Taneff (1129) Polasek (8102) v. O'Hagan (7721) Healy (4625) v. Marczyk (1857) Berry (1177) v. Gardnier (8646) Huner (6706) v. Po11er (8314) Pico (3316) v. Klisert Hayes(1194)v. bye Kim (3052) v. Jones (8367) 
Reardon (8686) v. Horvath (1392) O'Toole (8386) v. C~fford (8171) Kelly (1520) v. Geyer (6400) Reed (3378) v. Gorla (1145) Bauman (3546) v. Demarco (1392) Lusser (8969) v. Jordan (1691) 
What Does the Student Union Record Store Have in Stor£.: for Me 
CHEAPER PRICES...s.•.,u.J2.tftutpnm! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-J:6.5otc""'""""' 
S8.991ist) 
CUT-OUTS...s2.9B-s5 98 GREATSELECTION... sP"""''"'"· F""''h<'R· s,.,.,, 
Nicks. Chrutophn Cross, Moody Blues, Pot Benurur, Journey 11nd 
mon.v, many more ... 
ALSO... rec·ordedond blunk topes u~·uilobl~:. 
CONVENIENCE... TheNDSU RKardStoreisft"·uted on thr Main Floor ofL11Fortunr. PIUs-ortkrrd olbunu tob only onr wnk to urrivt! 



EASY RIDER
. 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
' 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the "Terrace Lounge" South Bend's largest 34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
I i r! 
'i/ 
$2.50
' 
(Sorry. No mug sales this year.) 
Thursdays are fun at the Marriott! 
SOUTH BEND _\\orriotf 
HOTEL 
123 ~-St. Joseph Stret>l. South Bend. Indiana 46601 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~· 
'The Observer Thursday, September 22, 1983-page 9 
• • . Joe 
continuedfrom page 12 Kosar. tal of 165 yards, including three "I think it's to our advantage that touchdowns, one might question Kosar is a freshman," offers Johnson. the strength of the Irish secondary. "We need to apply pressure to him But Johnson believes in his and see how he reacts." teammates and the defense. Johnson believes that the team 
"Anyone who puts all the blame will rise to the occassion Saturday on the secondary after a game really and prove that Notre Dame really doesn't understand football. We're a did deserve its lofty preseason stand­·defensive team out there. The ing. secondary is just as much a part of "We're not overconfident, but we the rushing defense as the line and know what we are capable of," says linebackers are a part ofthe passing ,Johnson. "We've learned from week defense. When even one player to week and have become a much misses their assignment, there's a closer-knit group than in years past. breakdown of the whole squad." We can win. I know we can." 
The next challenge for Johnson And when he gets in that first hit comes in playing Miami. The Hur-on Saturday, Johnson will show the ricanes offense is based on a sophis-unfortunate Miami player that Notre ticated pro passing attack and is led Dame players can hit hard, too. by freshman quarterback, Bernie 
'"' ..s;. 
,Sot.~ ~.!. ·•.


A tradition 
:-"~:':~.> ·'l!llf1·:! :t\t-1' --:dti."}-1

of teamwork. 
Notre Dame's heritage of football greatness began before Rockne. It will last beyond Faust. Because it is built on discipline, cooperation, self­sacrifice--qualities that blend individual skill and spirit into fighting, winning teams. 
Teamwork always has been important in Michiana. Through the years, Michiana people have proven their willingness to put aside their differences, to work together to make their commun­ities alive with economic, education, cultural and spiritual opportunity. 
We at 1st Source Bank are proud to be part of the Michiana team. We're delighted that we have been able to play a role in a continuing regional effort to revitalize the economy through local business ownership. 
Of course, we know the game is not over. But we also think the time is right to celebrate the Notre Dame/Michiana tradition of teamwork. So we are pre­senting two very special television programs-"Wake Up the Echoes'' and ''Building with Our Vision." 
"Wake Up the Echoes" is the spine-tingling history of Notre Dame football. "Building with Our Vision" tells the bright story of Michiana yesterday, today and tomorrow. Thanks to the team­work of the staff at WNDU-TV, the two programs will be shown without commercial interruption starting at 3:30 P.M. SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, ON CHANNEL 16. 
We urge you to tune in. We know you'II be entertained and-most important of all-we hope you 'II be inspired by what teamwork can accomplish f.or all of us. 
•.!J·... 
~source
..:aank 

Eddie Murray and the Baltimore Orioles made they swept Detroit in a doubleheader last night. a giant step in their questfor the AL East title as for more baseball scores, see page8. 
Willie Mays talking baseball again 
.. 
ByWILL GRIMSLEY those basket catches for the Giants AssociatedPress and Mets -sure-handed, no room for debate. Willie Mays fields provocative "What do you think about Hank questions the way he used to make Aaron's suggestion that he should be 
li-••-..•-••••••••••• coapoa ---•••••••••••••••1 
This Weekend••~_,.,, "· FORGET ABOUT BARS GO TO "ClASS" 
(IOpm· Midnight Fri. & Sat.) LATE NIGHT 
HAPPYHOUR 
Stadeat Speclaa. with Coapoa 
Cheese Fondue For Two •••••••••• $4.95 
Well Drinks••••••• $1.00 
RESERVATIONS RECOMMENDED 

'-•••••••••-••••-coapoa·•-••••••••••••••• 
1
I NICKlE'S 1· Every Wednesday: 1 IMPORT NIGHT I All Imports $1
I 
I
I Friday & SaturdayI WELLDRINKS 
I I Open for Lunch 12:00 noon 
I 
I 
I' 
I 
I
.. 
I I I I I I I 



II I 
I 
I
I 


II I 
I I 
I 
I 

-----------------· 
considered for commissioner of baseball?" somebody asked him. 
"If Hank thinks so, fine," Willie responded. "But you gotta ask your­self, 'Is he qualified?' You gotta be more than a onetime great ball player. You can't pick a commis­
., "Si'Oner on the color ofhis skin or just 
to make up for past injustices. 
"It's a big job. The commissioner must be a lawyer, a negotiator, a bus­inessman and a diplomat. He has to know all about TV contracts, player­management relations and stuff like that. 
"More than anything else, he has to be strong." 
When asked if there was anybody he thought might be right for the job, which Bowie Kuhn vacates at the end of the year, Willie rolled his eyes, pondered a moment and replied: 
"I don't want to say." 
Asked if he himself were in­terested, the all-time; All-Star in­dulged in the luxury ofa belly-laugh. 
"Me?" he said. "Not my thing." 
Mays was one ofthe special guests at New York's 21 Club restaurant yesterday to promote the second an­nual "Greatest Sports Legends" reunion next month at Bally's Park Place Hotel in Atlantic City, N.J. 
Some 60 super stars from a dozen sports will assemble for the party, including Larry Holmc:s, Eddie Ar­caro, Bob feller, Johnny Unitas, Mark Spitz, Bobby Riggs, Wilma Rudolph, Billy Casper and Gordie Howe. 
Willie took a 5100,000-a-year job as director of community affairs for the New Jersey casino some two months after he was formally in­ducted into baseball's Hall of Fame Aug. 5, 1979. 
Commissioner Kuhn immediately ordered him to sever all working relations with baseball on the premise that, as. an employee of a gambling casino, he would be exposed to unsavory influences. Later, the same action was taken against Mickey Mantle, another Hall of Farner, who accepted a similar position with a rival hotel. 

The Observer 
Thursday, September 22, 1983 -page 10 
... Cup 
continuedfrom page I 2 
day's pivotal loss, did it again yester­
day. 
He crossed the line too soon and 
had to circle back and start over. By 
the time he got there again, Liberty 
was 37 seconds ahead, a huge ad­
vantage and the fourth time in five 
races Conner had won the start. 
Bertrand immediately hoisted the 
protest flag, but that quickly became 
unnecessary. 
Conner, whose knack for finding the wind shifts had been the most noticeable difference in the series, sailed far to the right side of the course, leaving Australia II alone to pick up a 10-degree wind shift to port. 
Bertrand took full advantage and catapulted into the lead, never to trail again. 
He led by 23 seconds at the first mark, 4.5 miles into the race on the 24.3-mile triangular course. 
Bertrand held that margin after the second leg, a crosswind reach earlier races, and still led by 18 seconds after the third leg, also a reach. 
Rounding the fourth mark, it was Australia II by a safe I: I I, and there was no catching her as the wind diminished to I 0-1 5 knots. 
Turning for the final beat upwind, the Aussies led by 52 seconds. 
The victory, which took .3 hours, 29 minutes and I3 seconds, destroyed wh;lt was left of any form chart for this series, which saw Australia II advertised as the most serious threat yet to take away the Cup and break the longest winning streak in sports. Australia II, in fact, was favored by British bookmaker~. 
Each of the I2-meter yachts has won one race in light-to-medium wind, which was supposed to favor the lighter and more maneuverable Australia II. 
And equipment problem~ clouded the races in heavier wind. Besides Liberty's problem yester­day, Australia II broke a steering pul­ley in the first race and lost its 
.. 
john WriRht does a little polishing up as star­
hoard tailor of the American 12-meter Liber~Y­
Liberry leads the America's Cup competition, 3-2, 

STOCK UP FOR FOOTBALL SEASON AT THE KING 
BEER BUDWEISER 
KINGS CELLAR 

BEER 
24 LOOSE 
499 


MICHELOB 8.99. 
~~~~SBURGER 999 
KEGS BUDWEISER KEGS 
2999 

MILLER 112 KEG .. 32.50 QUARTS OLD MILWAUKEEcAsE6.79 BUDWEISER ... cAsES. 79 

CARLO ROSSI 
4LITER 
TAYLOR CALIFORNIA CELLARS 
1.5LITER 
GALLO PREMIUMS 
3LITER 
INGLENOOK NAVALLE 
1.5LITER 
ALMADEN MOUNTAIN WINES 
1.5LITER 
ZONIN LAMBRUSCO 
REO ONLY 
1 ML. 
ASTI SPUMANTE 
750 ML. 

..J] 

LIQUOR 
JIM BEAM BOURBON 
U5 LITER 
POPOV VODKA 799 
1.15 LITER 
---..-BEEFEATER GIN 1699
1.15 LITER 
BACARDI 
RUM 1Q99
U5LITER 
PASSPORT 
SCOTCH 1Q99
1.75 LITER 
SOUTHERN COMFORT 599 
750 ML 
.HIRAM WALKER SCHNAPPS 499 
750 ML 

'N.D. GRAND OPENING SPECIALS"-REGISTER FOR FREE TV DRAWING SEPT. 30, NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. MUST BE 21. 
WE WILL BEAT ALL COMPETITORS PRICES!! 
I IL____________________________________________________________________ 





T0 day____________________
T_h_u_rs_d_a_y_,s_e_p_t_e_m_b_e_r_2_2_,_1_9_8_3__p_a_g_e_l_l 
OH NO.. 
Bloom County 
YA KI{)W, 1H~Y 5AY 
UH.. 
ME:N SHARE: E:XP£RitNct:5 
!XJN'T YOU Y6AH, I 
1HINK ME.N SUf'f'05f-. JllVT 5W<£T5 ...11/HICH 
ANP WOf<I£N 5HAR€ 
SHOUW miNK Yf-R COr<£. £XPt.AIN'5 WHY ~ HAV£ 51R()t.j(X,fZ 
m~HI~tl\ 


~ 
' 
•. .u 

Fate 
Berke Breathed 

Photius 
WELL, THAT L£11V£.S Uf 
Wtrli (;,,7]:1. PDTLf{TfAL 
cusroMcRs. 
\ 


Campus 
•12:
15 p.m. -Lecture, "Outlook for Financial Markets," Dr. Roy Moore, 121 Hayes Healy 

•12:15 
p.m -Workshop, "Productive and Un­productive Investment and the Diversion of Capi­tal," James Rakowski, Library Lounge 

•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduction to SAS , 115 Computing Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs. Rosary, Courtney.Courts 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Outlook for Financial Markets and the Role of the Business Economist in the Banking Inustry," Dr. Roy More, 122 Hayes Healy 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Seminar, "Alkaloids from Alangium lamarckii of Biogenetic Impor­tance," Dr. Satyesh Pakrashi, 123 NSH 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, of students interested in the Ireland Study, Program, Carroll Hall, SMC 

•6:30 
p.m. -College Republicans General Meeting, 204 O'Shaughnessy 

•7 
p.m.-Volleyball, NO Women vs. Lake Michi­gan College, ACC 

•7 
p.m. -Social Concerns Film Series, "Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman," Center for Social Concerns 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "African Queen," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Chorale, SI 

•7 
p.m.-American-Lebanese Meeting, NAZZ 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Perception of Anamoly: Key to the Bias of Classifiction Systems," Prof Mary Douglas, Library Auditorium 

•9:30 
p.m. -Meeting and Slide Presentation, Notre Dame-St. Mary's Right to Life. LaFortune Little Theatre 



TV Tonight 
7p.m.  16  Gimmit" a Break  
22  Magnum, PI  
28  Too Close for Comforr  
34  Thl· Ascent of Man  
7:30p.m.  16  MaMa's Family  
28  TBA  
8p.m.  16  We Got It Made  
22  Simon and ~imon  
34  Jazz in Americ~  
8:30p.m.  16  Cheer~  
9p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  


Far Side 



The Daily Crossword 
Wednesday's Solution 
EVILEY. SEALANT RESANO .SLAOES 
9/22/83 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
,·1lljJiiililions ure !'?(Jll' ul'tlll{{h '.: ot .\I;_ .!nd Floor 1.(1.1-ortune (or 
Notre Dame 
PROJJC'CE'R ~4.J'/D lJIRECTOR 
tii >)l 
FOR SPRING PR()D[!CTJON OF STlJDENTPLAYERS
Student Union 
Submit application by September 30. ?? Contact Mary Stevens 239-7757 


Senior Bar 
Thursday Night BEAT THE CLOCK 
STARTING AT 9:30 

ACROSS 1 Planlpod 5 Pubquaffs 9 Horned viper 
12 Thick soup 
13 Reduceex· pendltures 14 Affect 16 Quoteon 
planning ahead (wlth54A) 
19 Somma summer 
20 Pungent 
21 Author Gay 
22 Wrongful act 23 Host 24 Was -(lost 
the race) 
27 Zorba 
portrayer 
28 Cobra's hissing cousin 
29 Rubik's­30 Evans or 
Robertson 34 Squealer 35 lroquoians 36 504 37 Landed 39-Dalen, 
Nobelist 40 American patriot 42 Ant, old style 44 Authorof 
the quote 45 Renters 48 Ebb 49 Overacts 50 Wad 51 Sorrow 54 Si$ol6A 57 Hold at 
bay 58 Gaelic 59 Pyleor 
Ford 60 Time peri· 
ods: abbr. 61 Ruminant 62 Indian 
peasant 
DOWN Diamond stratagem 
2 Part of Tristram's shield 
3 Garland 4 Forgotten 5 Separate 6 "Stick to 
your-" 7 Silkworm 8 Guards 9 City on 
the Ohio 10 Sugary 11 Outdated 12 Bakery item 15 North Sea 
feeder 17 Work for 18 Normandy 
town 22 Numerical prefix 
23 Diodes and 
triodes 24 Pod plant 25 USSR 
mountain 26 Comic 
Jacques 27 Coverlet 29 Loudcalls 31 Mine 
entrance 32 Typesetting 
mach. 33 Smooth 35 Tangled 38 Those sub· 
jected to examination 40 Certain wag 41 Implement 
for Bunyan 43 Encounter 44 Heavy blow 45 Went 46 Atlanta 
university 47 Moredis­gruntled 48 Racetrack item 50 Erato or 
Clio 51 Drunkard 52 Step-! 53 Inhabitant: 
suff. 55 Lode output 56 Grimly 
humorous 




Sports 
Johnson contributes some punishment 
ByTRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
There's never been any doubt. joe johnson has always known why he chose Notre Dame. 
"I came to Notre Dame because their football team wins games. Before I leave, I intend to he a part of that." 
johnson, a 6-2, 189-pound letter­man, entered Notre Dame in 1981 as part of the first class that Head Coach Gerry Faust recruited. Yet out of this highly talented class, johnson, along with roommate Joe Howard, were the only two mem­bers to crack into the starting lineup. 
"I really didn't expect my fresh­man year to come together as It did," saysJohnson. "My first goal was just to make the traveling team." 
Not only did he make the travel­i-:tg team, but during his freshmen year, he started in all II games and played the most minutes of any freshman player on defense. 
In his sophomore year, johnson switched positions from free safety to strong safety -a change that he welcomed. 
"I like strong safety better be· cause It lets me use my quickness more," says johnson. "Whereas before I had to go into a drop-back coverage, strong safety allows me to come up quick on the line. It also gives me the opportunity to get in there and hit more." 
johnson's aggressive style is very 
evident on the field and his 
teammates are well aware of this. 
Junior linebacker Mike Larkin ex-

The growth of a program 
The Notrl· Dame volleyball team·~ record stands at +II ( ·l·.~ on the season and 0-H in tournaml'nt play). That hn't a mark for people to cheer about, or for playt·rs and coaches to hl· proud of. 
Hut it isn't a mark for people to laugh at or shake their hctd~ at. Beti>re people ~o writing the Irish off or makin~ them the butt of mediocre minor sports jokes, tlll'y should take a clo,er look at lhl· points the pro~ram ha~ won that don't show on the S<:orehoard. 
Let's go hack three years to the first season of varsity status for volleyball. Underclassmen obviously weren't here to remember that time. Even many seniors would have to strain to recollect the existence of varsity vol­leyball hack then. It wasn't exactly a threat to the popularity offootball or basketball. 
But, being a charter member of that inaugural team, it's not hard for me to look hack with amazement at the transformations the program has gone through and the prol>(ress the changes have incurred. 
Three years ago, all the team had was itself -12 walk-on players, one mana~er, and Coach Sandy Vansla~er. Since then, with the help of what Vanslager calls "substantial" monetary hacking hy the athletic ad­ministration, those nmbers have changed. 
Since the second season when the first two scholar­ships were awarded to Josie Maternowski and Mary jo Hensler, five more grant-in-aids have been doled out. Now, seven ofthe the 12 team members are on scholar­ship. 
Vanslager also is not alone in her coaching duties. First there was Dan Anderson, hut now Rick Nunez fills the po!'ition ofIrish assistant coach. 
Besides scholarships, the increase in funds has per­mitted the team to jump from Division II AlAW to Divi­sion I NCAA. With that move comes a tougher schedule, improved travel conditions, and national recognition. 
This year the Irish have already competed against the likes of Kentucky, Georgia, and San Diego State. They are expected to see at least 10 of the top twenty teams in the country. 
Three years ago we faced Goshen, Manchester, and Anderson in big games. Our farthest trip was to Evansville, Ind. (seven hours In a crowded van) to com­pete in a conference tournament -which we lost. 
At the end of this season, Notre Dame will fly to Louisiana to face such teams as Nebraska, Arizonia State, and LSU. That tournament is even being televised in the Southeast. 
"It's not just the fact that we are playing these teams 
that counts," Vanslager says. "You have to keep in mind 
that these programs have been in existence for years. 
Their players have been together for three and four 
presses confidence in johnson's capabilities. 
"The defense feels very confident when joe is in there," he says. "We know that if we miss our man, joe will he right there to put punish­ment on the back." 
There was also a possibility, Larkin explains, that johnson may have replaced him at linebacker when he went down with a pre­season injury. 
"I've never seen a strong safety like to stick offensive backs as much as he does," explains fell()w Ollio native Larkin. "He plays with great intensity." 
Strong safety is where johnson , was playing Saturday in one of the better games of his career thus far. He finished with six tackles while breaking up two key Michigan State pass plays. 
Yet, despite johnson's outstand­ing performance, it was a disappoint­ing afternoon. 
"There's no doubt we were the better team on the field Saturday," admits johnson. "But the big plays 
hurt  us.  We  just made  too  many  
mistakes."  
One  very  crucial  mistake  oc­ 

curred in the first quarter when Spartan quarterback Dave Yarema hit Darryl Turner over the middle for an 81-yard touchdown play. johnson explains the error simply. 
"It was just a matter of some missed assignments on our part and Michigan State doing it right." 
With the Spartans passing for a to­see JOE, page 9 
Jane Healey 
Assistant Sports Editor 
years. They are awfully familiar with each other and their program." 
As a result of the increased scholarships and strong competition, Notre Dame has has to respond to the challenge in the quality of play. In the old days, we played a very simple and basic 6-2 offense. We didn't get fancy. 
Now, the Irish are making the difficult transition to a 5-1 line-up. Without getting technical, it requires players to take on more responsibility for maintaining and defending their positions. They have to know where to go, and when and how to get there. 
"It's a mental adjustment," Vanslager says. "You are being knocked out ofa position you know well and put into a new one. It's a matter ofchanging roles and learn­ing new ones." 
Perhaps to most people, the two statistics that best display the difference between then and now are records and attendance. 
Our first year, we were 3-19. The second year, gradual improvement boosted the team to 16-24. Then, last year for the first time, Notre Dame posted a winning record-an unbelievable 25-9. 
In our opening home match freshman year, we were being optimistic when we told people there were 50 people in the Pit. In Notre Dame's home opener against Georgia, Vanslager received an attendance figure of 325! And the games haven't even been moved to the Arena -yet (predicted for the October 18 match against St. Francis-Joliet). 
What all ofthese facts and figures should point out is that 4-11 is nothing to shake a finger at. In the com­posit~ picture, Notre Dame volleyball has won many tough battles offthe court that will never show up in the record books. It's not time to get down on the team. As Vanslager points out, "We're just in another phase of a giant growing process." 
Looking back over the years, I find it particularly ap· propriate to coin a certain commercial cliche, "You've come a long way baby." People might be shaking their heads at the team, but at least they're aware that Notre D.lme has a volleyball team. 
Thursday, September 22, 1983 -page 12 
The Otw:rver/Tom Brown 
junior Lisa LaFratta returns a shot on her way to an easy 6-0,6-1 victory yesterday. Her teammates encountered about as much difficulty 

America's Cup 
Australia II wins, stays alive 
NEWPORT, R.I. (AP) -Challen­ger Australia II overcame a poten­tially fatal premature start and staved off elimination in the America's Cup with an easy victory yesterday over a limping U.S. defen­der Liberty. 
The I minute, 47-second margin cut Liberty's lead to 3-2 in a best-of­seven series made unpredictable by It took about 45 minutes to make equipment problems on both boats repairs, crewmen scramblin~ aloft, and a baffiing departure from form. and, when the gun sounded signal­
The sixth race on Rhode Island ing 10 minutes until the start, Sound is scheduled for today, the Liberty still hadn't hoisted her jib, first time since the Americans won the small. triangular sail held on a 4-2 in 1934 that a foreign boat has stay from the bow to the mast. won twice. In 25 defenses since the Once under way, the U.S. boat ap­schooner America first won the Cup peared to he heeling more than the in I851, the challenger has never challenger, leaning over under wind won and no series for sailing's oldest pressure, with a pronounced hen­trophy has gone beyond six races. ding ofthe mast toward the aft. Con­
Yesterday, the Americans ex­ner appeared to he gening les.~ perienced equipment trouble, just advantage from the I H-knot winds as the Australians had in losing the and lumpy, 2-to 4-foot seas in which first two races last week. he had won the first two races. 
Skipper Dennis Conner had a mast Australia II skipperjohn Bertrand, problem before the "tart ;md had to who misjudged the 'rart in Tuc~ send a chase hoat back to the dock 
see CUP, page 10
for replacement parts. 
Saint Mary's volleyball squad amazes Grace 
By ROSEMARY WHALEN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team scored their second victory of the season over Grace College last night in the Angela Athletic facility. 
First-year coach Brian Goralski was pleased with the Belles' confi­dent play in defeating Grace I5-:i, 15-0, 15-8. "We are expanding our multiple offense more and hope this will prove successful in the upcom­ing Illinois Benedictine Tournament this Saturday." 
Saint Mary's was represented hy a lineup comprised of senior co­captains Miki Maternowski and Loret Haney, along with backup sup­port from juniors Molly Baker, Teresa Rotta, and Ann Boutton. Sophomores Patrice Grant and jean WPivand, and freshmen standouts Pah, dlliams, Ann Brown, Pomi Smith, and Megan Brown also played a major role in the Belles' success. 
Saint Mary's started off strong with a fine display of offensive play, as Teresa Rotta and Patty Williams 
combined to serve nine straight points. This gave the Belles the op­portunity to try their new offensive game plan. They called on Haney for consistent setting. 
"Loret is an excellent setter," said freshman hitter Ann Brown. The Belles had a good night following Haney's lead. 
Boutton, the Belles strong middle 
in defeating helpless Rosary College, 9-0. For more detail~~ see Sports Briefs on page 7. 
hitter, teamed up with Brown and outside spikers Williams, Rotta, B;1ker and Maternowski to hit Grace's weak spots consistently. 
Boutton commented, "We're still learning our new multiple offense and tonight had the opportunity to try more plays." 
Saint Mary's looked confident in moving the hall well inside and then surprised Grace with strong outside hitting by Williams. 
"The team has been working ex­tremely hard the last two weeks," said Haney. "We are beginning to gel as a team, and hopefully all our hard work will continue to pay off this weekend at the Illinois Benedictine Tournament." 
TODAY 
field hockey vs. Chicago field east of ACC 
4p.m. 






