-,-----~~---~­
------------------~-----~ --­
• • • Ice statue-page 4 

violence.
By DAVID I. LANGFORD 
"A load 'Jf potatoes is not worth a
Associated Press 
life," saidGary Hatfield, a potato broker in Hartland, New Brunswick. But Terry Rodes, president of the
Food shipments to some Eastern New England Produce Center justcities were curtailed yesterday by a outside Boston said, "So far, every­truckers strike that has erupted into thing is moving on schedule.
warfare on the highways with more However, many truckers are now in­than 300 trucks damaged, one driver to a daylight-only scheduk."
slain and 27 people injured. 
Mike Parkhurst, head of the as­
"It looks like war out there," said sociation_ ':Vnich claims to represent
Chief Deputy Edmory Rush in Col­~v,OOO of the nation's 100,000 inde­
ltton County, S.C., who was ur~in_:; pendent truckers who own and
sheriffs in surrounding :::uunties to operate their own rigs, called thestep up pai:rols of major truck strike Monday to protest scheduledroutes. "We don't want this to be a increases in fuel taxes in April andbloodbath." 
highway use fees in 1985. 
Officials at the giant Hunts Point While the independentsTerminal Market in New York City represent about a fifth ofthe nation'ssaid produce shipments slowed to a truckers, they haul about 90 percenttrickle after remaining near t normal of the produce.
the first two days of the strike by in­
Labor Secretary Raymond route to the North Dining Hall. With the recent
dependent truckers. 
Donovan, while visiting a steel plant"Today it's dead," said Tom in Steelton, Pa., yesterday, said theWhite, deputy manager of the 
Senate district 4 
strike will hamper efforts to revivemarket. 
the economy.
Mike Pfluger of the U.S. Depart­"It's tragic," he said. "I hope 
Laundry I Student Reps key issues
ment of Agriculture station at the cooler heads will prevail and they'llmarket said wholesale prices had take their beef to the Congress andjumped as much as 30 percent. 
Editor's Note: The following is the By TOM MOWLE sider important include only those
that's really where it should be."
Pfluger said supplies of beans, 
fourth ofa five-part series describ­Campus Campaign Reporter who would use Cable TV paying for
Many drivers were clearlycauliflower, celery, eggplant, green 
ing the candidates in each of the it, improving or replacing
frightened by the violence this week peppers and tomatoes have five Student Senate districts. Placing a laundry on the north end LaFortune, and selling a reducedthat has seen 155 trucks hit bydropped. He noted that 70 percent Today's segment profiles can­of the campus and .recommending
gunfire, 16 7 damaged by rocks and
to 75 prcent of the area's fruit and bricks, a few trucks torched, tires didates from District 4, which con­that a student representative attend Campus ,
produce arrives by truck. 
sists ofPlanner, Grace, Pasquerilla administration meetings are two of
slashed, nails and glass scattered onSome trucking in
companies * Campaign 83
East, and Pasquerilla West. The the issues in the District 4 Senate 
Canada have suspended shipments 
series will conclude tomorrow with campaign.
See STRIKE, page 4
to the United States because of the 
a discussion ofDistrict 5. One candidate suggests a laundry meal plan for those who pay for a located either on the North Quad or greater number of meals per week in the Towers. That candidate's op­than they actually eat. The following ponent believes the Senate should is a profile of each candidate's posi­
Man I Woman ratio re-evaluated 
have more of a voice in administra­tion. tion decisions. Both candidates Mark Boone wants the Student stress polling residents of their dis­Senate to _gain an influential voice
Equal access admissions sought 
tricts for ideas. Other issues the candidates con-See CAMPAIGN, page 6 
By DAN MCCULLOUGH be admitted to the University in light well as the guys, but time and ex­StaffReporter of this PACE recommendation, perience have eliminated a lot of Director of Admissions John these problems," he said. 
HPC re-votes to endorse 
The PACE report has recom­Goldrick simply replied, "I doubt it." "Eventually, coeducation added a mended that the proportion of un­De'!m of Students James Roemer style and grace to the place that we 
FLOC boycott resolution 
dergraduate men to women at Notre said that coeducation is "absolutely didn't have before." Dame be reevaluated in light of the the best thing that has happened on "But we have not completely 
ByVIC SCIULLI 
University's experience with this campus in the last fifty years," overcome all of these obstacles. A 
Assistant News Editor 
coeducation. but does not advocate increasing the lot of males still have the tendency The Hall President's Council revoted to endorse the Farm"Equal Access" is the term that current proportion of women to to be macho," Roemer continued. 
Labor Organizing Committee's (FLOC) resolution to boycott theDean of Freshmen Emil T. Hofman men. "When Saint Mary's is con­"They are not completely ap­Campbell Soup Company in an emergency meeting last night.
used in describing what will be sidered it is a fairly decent ratio." preciative of the women's HPC President Mike McAuliffe called the meeting because of anstrived for in admissions during the Although time has eliminated presence." He said that at some state error made in the previous night's voting.
1980's, with students being ad­many obstacles there are still some schools men and women are more The HPC had voted Tuesday night 1 5-4 with five abstentionsmitted "without reference to a sex­to be overcome in the areas of likely to be companions and do on the resolution to boycott the Campbell Company. McAuliffe,based quota." Hofman went on to coeducation, said Roemer. He con­things together as equals, and voiced uncertain about the proper procedure on endorsements, thoughtsay that if such a policy is instituted, tested that the "petty attitudes with a need for a more open attitude in that only a simple majority was needed to pass the resolution and"the ratio (of men to women) will this area for the student body at declared that the resolution would be officially endorsed by thenecessarily increase, though we're Notre Dame. 
HPC.
not advocating that there will be a Assistant Director of Admissions After checking the HPC constitution, McAuliffe realized that aparticular ratio for which we will Pat Leonardo pointed out that with two-thirds majority, 16 of the 24 hall presidents, was needed tostrive." the PACE recommendation of a pass the resolution. This meant that the resolution had actuallyCoeducation has raised the threefold endowment increase for been defeated.
academic level of the student body, undergraduate student aid by 1990, 
Last night's vote for the resolution was 16-4 with four absten­but not because the women ad­In terms ofthe future, Roemer ad­the office of admissions would be tions.
mitted to the University are any mitted that increased social space is able offer more to applicants in McAuliffe said it was important that the HPC revote on themore intelligent, according to Hof­'leeded, but does not think that is terms of individual aid. Given this, resolution because of the influence hall presidents have on theirman. Rather, since the admissions .1e whole answer. "Stereotypes are the admissions office hopes that the halls. He believes that the outcome of the HPC vote can swayceiling was kept at the same level still obstacles," he explained. He pool of applicants will not dwindle student opinion on the resolution. Students are scheduled to voteduring the switch to coeducation,· went on to say that both men and in spite of the recent decline in on .the resolution this Tuesday.
the lowest grading segment of the women need to have more courage private education and high school Several hall presidents also admitted that they thought only amale student body was replaced in terms of asking each other to do enrollment. 
simple majority was needed to pass the re~ .Jlution. McAuliffe,
with women. things and that they should not be so Although the petcentage of 
however, said that the simple majority rule has not made a dif­
By admitting students according afraid of rejection. minority students has more than ference in the outcome of HPC voting this year. The resolutions
to their qualifications rather than He added that he does not see doubled in the past ten years, the ad­about the hockey team, happy hours and alcohol policy werejust meeting gender-quotas, the coeducational dormitories as a missions office would like to have at passed unanimously or near unanimou:.lv, he said.
ratio would shift naturally to a future University tradition. least 15 percent of the total student Scott Rombach, who presented Campbe:l's side of-the issue at numerically balanced one. "It was a lot worse when coeduca­body made up of minority students Tuesday's HPC meeting could not be reached for comment.
When asked whether it will tion first came in, and it was difficult become more difficult for males to for the staff and faculty to adjust as See PACE, page 6 

heavy rains, the puddle problem is widespread on campus. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 

( 
~ -------~ -----~-------·---~,~---------------~ ---~---~---------------~------­
Thursday, February 3, 1983 -page 2
News Brief§ 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
jeWiSh Students and faculty merlit!':!S at Notre Dame are invited to attend a meeting Sunday at 6 p.m. at WiisD:! Commons. There will be a deli style dinner, on a cost-shared basis. This will be followed by a discussion ofthe Israeli-Lebanese situation and a social hour. -The Obsei"•Jer 
Grad students and faculty are reminded that 
voting on the unilateral Nuclear Freeze Referendum and the Campbell Boycott Ret~rendum will take place next Tuesday from I 1 
a.m. to 4 p.m. in the main lobby of LaFortune Student Center. You must present a Notre Dame ID to vote. Off-campus students also vote in LaFortune lobby from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. -The Observer 
A half-dozen tornadoes howled across Florida 
yesterday, killing one person and blacking out thousands of homes, while a snowstorm billed as the worst of the winter in parts of the Midwest piled up more drifts in a threc"day onslaught that has claimed 16 lives. Meanwhile, a new Pacific storm hit w.:.t::!·logged Southern California with moderate rain and gusty winds. Forecasters warned of rock and mudslides in coastal areas battered by devastat­ing storms last week. However, the storm -the fifth to hit California -was not expected to generate the powerful waves that destroyed or damaged thousands ofbeach homes and piers last week. -AP 
A U.S. Marine captainclimbed aboard one of three 
Israeli tanks, his pistol drawn and loaded, and told an insistent Israeli 
commander he would have to roll over his "dead body" to get past 
an American checkpoint in Beirut yesterday, officials said. The 
Reagan administration immediately called Israel on the carpet over 
the "gravity" of the situation Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger 
called the Israeli behavior "threatening" and "both unnecessary and 
basically damaging" to peace prospects. The column ofthree Israeli 
ranks backed off after Marine Capt. Charles B. Johnson, of Rock Is­
land, Ill., puiled his weapon and loaded it in front of an Israeli 
lieutenant colonel, scrambled onto the commander's tank and demanded the withdrawal, officials said. The Israeli officer "insisted !hey were coming through, the Marine captain said they were not," Weinberger said. Johnson "climbed onto the lead tank, said that if they were coming through they'd have to do it over his dead body," 
according to Weinberger. -AP 
A tanker truck loaded with propane gas collided with an automobile just west ofAvon Wednesday afternoon, injuring four persons and forcing the evacuation of nearby residents because of leaking liquid propane gas. Deputy James Daugherty of the Hendricks County sheriffs department said there was no explosion or fire and no injuries as a result ofthe leaking propane. Indiana State Police officer Roger Hangsleben said residents of the nearby Avondale Apartments were evacuated as a precautionary measure. Hangsleben said he did not know how many people were evacuated but said the complex has between 1 5 and 20 apartments. Daugherty said the people were expected to be able to return to their apart­ments around 9:45 p.m. The deputy said the accident occurred when the tanker and automobile collided head-on at about 4 p.m. on Indiana 36 neat the junction of Indiana 267 a few miles west of In­
dianapolis. -AP 
The Guide DivisionofGeneral Motors Guide in An­derson, Ind. announced yesterday it is recalling 62 workers on Monday. The 62laid-offhourly employees will return to their jobs as a result of an increase in production, Guide spokeswoman Pat Haw­kins said. This latest recall brings Guide's workforce to more than 3,880, leaving 944 on indefinite layoff. Guide manufactures car, truck and tractor lamps, rear view and visor mirrors, plastic parts and bumper systems. This is the fourth recall since the beginning of the new year, bringing the total recall for 1983 to 250. -AP 
Giovanni VigliottO, testifying for a second day in his bigamy and fraud trial, said yesterday he had married 105 women over the past 30 years, some of them twice and at least one three times. And asked whether he would marry any of them again if he were free, he replied: ''I'm not free; I don't know what I would do." Court was recessed twice as Vigliotto became upset under cross­examination about allegations he told various women that his father, his mother or other members ofhis family had been slain by Nazis or Fascists in Italy. "I don't want to talk about my family's death," he said loudly when prosecutor David Stoller raised the question during cross examination in the jammed courtroom. "You're asking for the sake of this audience and the press. We're not here to talk about my family. We're here to talk about me." -AP 
The local groundhogwas hindered from seeing his shadow due to the cloudy South Bend weather yesterday, so winter is almost over. A 70 percent chance ofsnow, windy and cold today. Temperatures falling into the the low 20s by evening. An 80 percent chance of snow tonight. Lows in upper teens. Occasional snow tomorrow diminishing to flurries. High in low to mid 20s. -AP 
I I Debating the freeze 
The history of !he debate over nuclear arms is a clouded one. About the oniy generalization that can be made about the various opinions is that no one wants to be near a nuclear bomb when it goes off. 
Otherwise. things get complex quick. On one side you have those who feel the best way to prevent nuclear war is by nuclear stalemate. Then there are those who feel that the Russians are as scared ofnuclear war as the U.~ .. and would disarm ifwe set the example. 
Things are no hcttcr when it comes to arms talks. How much do we give up to the Soviets? Should we reduce arms levels or freeze at the current level? These' are questions that few agree on. Public opinion, while divided, was for years very limited in scope. Recently though, anti-nuclear movements have gained strength in Western Europe and the United States. 
The most popular and successful approach so far adv­ocates both sides freezing their number ofnuclear war­heads at present levels. This position has received a lot 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor 
Inside Thursday 
hamlets. 
!:i'S-20: An accurate and deadly missile that can level all parts of Europe from Russia. It also can be transported and launched from a truck. 
Pershing II: A U.S. counterpart to the SS-20. If it survives the test phase, plans call for it to be based in West Germany this fall. 
Cruise Missile: An accurate missile . .NATO plans a fall dehut in five European countries. 
MX: A new intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). 

of influential support lately, This means that it can reach including that of the any part of the U.S.S.R. from American Cath()ilC _Bj~hops. the U.S. Asearch ofwhere to 
The simplicity· of the base it continues. proposal stands in contrast Trident: An ICBM that is to the arguments ofits many based on submarines. Cur­
opponents. They argue that rently, these are considered a freeze now would only the most invuiiiCi:!bie to benefit the Russians, and desi:i:.!<::tion. In wartime, the that verification of the sub's captain a;c~~ makes freeze would be difficult. the decision of whether or 
This argument has come not to launch. to Notre Dame and Saint MIRV: Multiple Individual Mary's. The Two-Campus Reentry Vehicles. These are Freeze Coalition has placed separate nuclear warheads a referendum on the ballot perched atop one ICBM; for the upcoming student each ofthe warheads can hit government elections. It a different target. states: SALT II: Strategic Arms 
"Shall the United States Limitation Talks. The latest Government unilaterally proposal was never ratified 

freeze the testing, production, andfurther deployment ofall nuclear weapons, missles, and delivery systems as an essentiai first step toward mutual disarma­ment?" 
Already much rhetoric concerning the referendum is filling the air. In the interest ofclearing the air, and to let opposing sides state their cases, The Observer is sponsoring a debate on the Nuclear Freeze Referen­dum. John Blandford of the Two-Campus Freeze Coali­tion will be debating Mark Lynch from the Notre Dame College Republicans. They will be answering questions posed by Observer editors. 
During the course of the debate a numher of un­familiar terms and phrases may be uses. What follows is a list of the more common terms. 
Zero Option: President Reagan proposed this as a means of outflanking the Soviets. If the Russians get rid of their missiles aimed at Western Europe, we will not deploy missiles in Europe aimed at Moscow and other by Congress. It would have limited intercontinental missiles, while leaving those the size of the SS-20 un­checked. The Europeans opposed this. 
Decoupling: Originally, it was thought that ICBMs in North Dakota would deter the Soviets from attacking Europe. The decoupling theory is that the U.S. would not risk a global nuclear war by launching ICBMs, and thus Europe would be overrun. This is part of the rationale for basing nuclear missiles in Europe. 
The nuclear freeze initiative could not come at a time more ripe for controversy. The Kremlin's top priority is to stop new American weapons from crossing the Atlan­tic. In the meantime, the number of people searching for some way to diminish the nuclear threat has never been greater. Regardless of how Notre Dame votes Tuesday, and Saint Mary's on Thursday. the outcome will receive national attention. 
I urge you to attend the debate which will he Sunday at 8 p.m. in Room 127 of Nieuwland Science Building. Then vote. 
The Observer 
"ROME REVISITED" 
Design Editor......... Kentvs Cerabonvs Ill Design Assistant. ..... Ide• of March Healy Layovt Staff... . ........... The Sistine Sibyls 
-Josephvs Hitarae Zellnervs I T,ypesetters ................ Caesar M;.1cLennon 
Biggvs Nova.~ News Editor... . ....JvlivsJeff Harin!(ton Copy Editor. Elizabeth "llachae" Hackett 
Editorials Layor'f ... .... Tarae Brownae Sports Copy Editor. ....... Caligvla Needles B&T Layovt... . .......... Minimvs Szilvas ND Day Editor.. ..... Proconsvl Ann Bailey SMC Day Editor ................ Tarae Brownae Typists.. . ... Betsy Portvs AdDesign ............. Marilynibvs Larkinibvs Photographer... . ... Pavlvs Cificvs Gvest Appearances..."Et tv Brvte"Oakley 
Maximvs Mvsvmeci: 
one tired set designer Margaret Fosmoe I/2 General Victorivs Scivllivs "Helen" Gancarz the Great 
Veni. Vidi. Vici. 
"/came. I saw. I congoed???" 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fr1day and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year 1$15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
An Tostal Organizational Meeting 

Sunday, February 6 7pm LaFortune Little Theatre 
(f 

All interested students are urged to attend. 
The Observer Thursday, February 3, 1983 -page 3 
Papal encyclical on work 
Labor deemed prior to capitalism 

By AMY STEPHAN 
News Staff 
Labor and capitalism are not in­trinsically opposed to one another, but labor has priority over capitalism. These are two main prin· ciples expressed in Pope John Paul II's Encyclical on Work according to 
Father  Edward  O'Connor,  Notre  
Dame professor of theology.  
O'Connor  offered  an  

"introduction to the Encyclical that will aid in understanding it" in his talk last night, "John Paul ll's En­cyclical on Work, Laborem Exer­ceus." The talk was sponsored by the Thomas More Society. 
Labor is the productive agent 
which converts goods to products 
for human use, said O'Connor, while 
capitalism provides raw materials on 
which to work. "The laboring man 
should feel he is working for himself, 
not being exploited," he said. 
The notion that "the most impor­tant product of labor is the human 
man because people are formed 
through their work," is also 
expressed in the Encyclical, accord­
ing to O'Connor. 
While upholding woman's right to work, O'Connor pointed out the Pope's stance that "any economic system that obliges the mother of a family to work in order to support the family is radically wrong." 
O'Connor explained that the original contlict caused by the In­dustrial Revolution was that of capitalism versus labor. This conflict led to the conflicting theories of capitalism and socialism. 
The papal position, said O'Connor, consistantly has been that neither theory provides an ade­quate statement of, or a fair solution to, the labor problem. 
O'Connor stated that the Pope suggests the importance of unions, profit-sharing, new forms of solidarity and the right of the hand­icapped to work as possible means by which to implement his theories. 
Individual Education Accounts 
Russo doubts success of proposal 
By VIC SCIULLI The Individual Education Ac­would have allowed families to save 
AssistantNews Editor counts are similar in concept to the up to 52,000 a year for the future 
existing Individual Retirement Ac­education of their children without 
Joseph Russo, Director of Finan­counts except that individuals can having to pay taxes on the funds un­
cial Aid, believes that President deposit up to S2,000 in the I.R.A. an­til after the child's graduation. The 
Reagan faces a difficult battle in nually and deduct that amount from student would pay the taxes on the 
Congress over his 1983-84 budget their taxable income. money over a 10-year period follow­
which includes the proposal of in­Families with younger children ing graduation. The proposal failed 
dividual education accounts as well would benetlt most from the to gain any support. 
as the elimination of several finan­proposal because they would have a Russo believes that the financial 
cial aid programs. longer period of tax-free interest ·aid picture is "less discouraging" 
The Individual Education Ac­than would families with college age than a year ago. "The pieces are fal­counts would allow families earning children. ling together," he said. less than 540,000 to set aside up to Families earning more than Last year, the tlnancial aid office 51,000 a year per child for his or her HO,OOO will also be eligible in the did not learn how much federal future education in an account ear­proposal. The maximum amount, money it would receive for the com­ning tax-free interest or dividends. however, will be reduced five per­ing year until April. The office nor­
Reagan has also proposed the cent for each S1,000 of extra mally knows the amount it will elimination of several federal finan­income. A family earning 560,000 or receive by October. The delay cial aid programs, including the Na­more, therefore, will not be eligible. caused problems in determining tional Direct Student Loan, and the Both the Treasury Department financial aid tor students. placement of greater eligibility and the Office of Management and Russo believes that Reagan's In­restrictions on Pell Grants. Budget have objected strongly to dividual Education Accounts would 
The proposals are part of a $13.5 Reagan's proposal because of the be too great ofa draw ofrevenue and 
billion budget for elementary, loss ofrevenue it would bring about, has "little chance of taking off in secondary and higher education estimated by the administration to Congress." "It is nothing but a politi­programs for the 1983-8-'1 ~chool be S I 00 million in 1985 and S200 cal ploy," he said. He agrees, year. This figure, is almost S 1 billion million in 1986. however, that the increased restric­less than this year's figure of Sl~.4 Sen. Charles Mathias (R-Md.) 
billion. See AID, page 4
made a similar proposal last year that 
X-LARGE 17 in MEDIUM14in
FREE DELIVERY
Cheese Pizza Cheese Pizza 
lfnlis}J llrinr.elfiJJtria 
18061 South Bend Ave. 
$6.79 $4.71 
extra ingredients 85' extra ingredients 62' 
272-8030
coupon exp 2113/83 coupon exp 2113/83 
j. 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4 -7 p.m. (on Thursdays_until closing) are just $2.00! 
/·1 
:J
~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
By MARY PAT GOLDEN 
News Staff 
"For a long time we have been 
taking sticks and scraping them on 
cave walls. Now the laser is our 
stick," said Rosemary Jackson in her 
second and final lecture on holog­
raphy yesterday. 
The lecture is part of a series of events planned for the Exhibit of Creative Holography, which will continue through February 18 in Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's. 
"Holography (the creation of a three-dimensional picture through the use of laser light) is the only communications medium which can relate to us the real world just as we see it," according to Jackson, director ofthe New York Museum of Holography. 
Jackson said she hopes that people will see holography as more than just a new kind of 'hi-tech' art. "I think we have to think about it a little further than funky three-D images. If we're able to learn so much from two-D. imagine what we can learn from three-D. Like every­thing else in the world, it's got some­thing to teach u~." 
Noting the practical applications of holography, Jackson warned against being "fooled by the fact that these are matted and framed and hanging on a wall." 
She contrasted the difficulty in putting a model together according to conventional two-dimensional in­structions, to the ease of following holographic instructions. "You just tilt the hologram from left to right and actually see someone in three-D putting the same pieces together. You don't have to keep translating from two-D to three-D and back again, because a hologram can show you the instructions in three-D im­mediately." 
The study of holograms itself is only fifteen years old and there are just 125 holographers in the world. Because-holography is a young art form, Jackson says, "there are no rules, no trends. There is a lot of good stuff to play around with." 
Rather than judging all holograp­hic creations beautiful, creative, or innovative she urges evaluating each work individually. "People have used this medium well, but you should judge this as harshly and as critically as you would any other medium. Don't let yourself be impressed by its newness." 
See HOLOGRAPHY, page 6 

..CJ'Qoweftg fpn aQQ occagiollg~ ~ 
Corne in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354 
~·······························~ 
: Why you should go to Florida :! with the Student Union!! ! 
i• Reason •3 i•
: A Great Bargain : 
• *Numerous Bar &Restaurant Discounts • : *Because of the SU purchasing power, : 
• The Best Hotel for • 
•
• 
: the lowest pnce •: ; *Trip Price even LOWER than Last years!! :
,...............................
~ 
The Observer Thursday, February 3, 1983 page4 
First Dem. to announce 
Cranston plans presidential bid 

An icy Statue ofLiberty adorns a park in Sap­poro, japan during yesterday's opening ceremonies for the 1983 Snow .Festival, which features models of famed landmarks and per­sonnages carved from ice. Sapparo is located on thejapanese island ofHokkaido, the wintriest of the main islands. ( AP Photo) 

Aerodynamics  Computational Fluid Dynamics  
Aeroelasticity  Computer-Aided Design  
Bioengineering  Propulsion  
Combustion  Structural Dynamics  
Structures-Composites  

Individual Tuition & Fees are $1,452 per calendar year. Total financial aid per calendar year: $13,452 Center of Excellence in Rotary Wing Aircraft 
Fellowships $14,452 Lockheed/Georgia Tech Research Assistantships $ 7,500-Research Assistantships 
$10,000 
All graduate students will participate in research. For further information contact: Dr. A.L. Ducoffe, Director 
School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332 
(404) 894·3000 
l 
~------------------~-------------------j 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Calling for an end to "the incredibly dan­gerous, shamefully expensive arms race," Sen. Alan Cranston yesterday formally became the first 1984 presidential candidate. 
Getting a short jump on his better known Democratic rivals, the California senator opened his cam· paign in the marble-columned Senate Caucus Room before a cheer· ing crowd of supporters. He then flew to Manchester, N.H., to repeat his announcement in the state which will hold 1984's first presidential primary. 
The 68-year-old Cranston is regarded as a longshot prospect for the Democratic nomination. Most polls show him trailing Vice Presi· dent Walter F. Mondale and Sen. john Glenn ofOhio. 
Asked how he planned to 
overcome the leads of such rivals, 
Cranston said his strategy consisted 
of"my message, organzation, raising 
money" and expanding his base in 
California into other states of the 
West and the Sun Belt. 
The senator's message clearly was that he is the candidate committed to negotiating an end to the nuclear arms race. 
"No president has ever given the priority task, of ending the arms race, the attention it demands. I will," he said. ' 
And he tied the arms race to the economic problems of the nation. 
"I am convinced that in the long run, we cannot revive our economy -or save our society -until we end the incredibly expensive arms race," he said. He added that the next presidential announcent by a Democrat could come Feb. 9, when Rep. Morris Udall ofArizona plans to use a speech at the National Press Club to declare whether he will en· ter the race. Aides describe Udall as still undecided. 
Sen. Gary Hart. D-Colo.. plans to announce hb presidential candidacy on Feb. 17. Mondale's announce­ment is set for Feb. 21, and former Florida Gov. Reubin Askew's for Feb. 23. 
Glenn and Sen. Ernest F. Hollings. D-S.C., also considered certain entrants into the 1984 race,.have not said yet when they will officially de~lare their candidacies. Sen. Dale Bumpers, D-Ark., also is contemplat· ing entering the race. 
Possible Republican candidates have been silent, awaiting a decision by President Reagan on whether he will seek a second term. 
El Salvador 
Battalion prepares for attack 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) stretch of rich cotton and coftee increasing ability to operate on -a government battalion was lands 25 miles long and about ten more than one front. reported moving into positions on miles wide from the Pacific coast The rebels struck in Usulutan the slopes of Cimarron HiiJ yester­nearly to the Pan-American High· while some 6,000 government day, preparing for a counterattack to way. troops, including the three mobile retake the guerrilla-held city of Ber­The town was defended by less battalions trained by the United lin atop the hill. than 100 troops, police and States, were tied down more than 
Civilians at the Cuscatlan bridge, militiamen, and rebel snipers ap­100 miles northeast of San Salvador ten miles west of Berlin, said they parently had no difficulty turning on an operation in Morazan sawsix air force helicoptersfly more back two Small convoys ofreinforce­province. troops into the area 70 miles east of ments sent to aid them. After about An officer in Usulutan, the provin· San Salvador. They said an air force 500 guerrillas overwhelmed the cia! capital, said the 2,500-man gar­attack plane bombed suspected defenders Monday night, the rison there had been halved because guerrilla positions north of Berlin. government moved about I,500 a battalion was sent to Morazan. He 
Berlin, a town of 30,000 in troops into the area from the north. said the local commander did not Usulutan province and a farming Civilians in Mercedes Umana, want to reduce his force further by center overlooking the Lempa River, about 6 miles north of Berlin, reinforcing Berlin because he feared is the biggest town taken by the left­reported helicopters flying over late a huge guerrilla attack on Usulatan. ist rebels of the Farabundo MartiNa· Tuesday, possibly bringing in more U.S. assistant Secretary of State 
tiona! Liberation Front in their 39 troops or supplies. Thomas Enders told the Senate 
month-old guerrilla war against the Although the rebel commander in Foreign Relations Committee the U.S.-supported government. Berlin indicated that the guerrillas capture of Berlin was "a significant Its capture facilitated the rebels' might not try to hold it, the capture psychological action ... but not a sig· 
campaign ofeconomic sabotage in a of the city demonstrated their nificant military action." 
Enders added, however, that the army miscalculated in allowing the rebels to gain momentum in the of·
SMC ORIENTATION 
fensive they began in October. "The army failed to react vigorously with 
Applications are now being accepted for: 
the right tactics," he said. Some foreign military experts in 
Assistant Chairman 
El Salvador said the fall of Berlin
Social Chairman Big Sister/Little Sister 
demonstrated that the government
Off-Campus Chairman 
could lose the war unless its com­
Chairman 
manders abandoned the large-scale
Transfer Chairman General Committee 
infantry sweeps that they favor and
Workers 
switched to small-scale, highly mobile counterinsurgency tactics
Applications are available in the Student Activities Office (166 LeMans Hall) 
Deadline for applications··· Wed. Feb. 9, 1983 
• • • Strike 
Please sign up for an interview when you return 
continuedfrompage 1 
your application. 
highways and other vandalism and sabotage in at least 31 states. 
A member of the Teamsters was shot in the neck and killed while driving near Newton Grove,. N.C., 
au Stubent PaRtiCJpatJnq In th€ 
late Monday night. Another driver was seriously wounded by a gunshot while unloading his truck in Utah

toRonto €xchanqe 
and a 14-year-old Pennsylvania girl suffered a fractured skull. 
• • . Aid 
~ffi€€tlnq 
continuedfrom page 3 
tions on loan and grant eligibility are necessary to. screen out applicants
ton1qht 
who really have no need. 
Russo add~d that submitting the Financial Aid Form (FAF) on time is the single most important thing a student can do to have a chance at aid. He believes that people are of­
•f=€s. 3 at 7 pm 
ten so discouraged that "they'll throw in the towel," and not apply. The College Scholarship Service 
must receive FAF's by March I for Notre Dame students to be eligible for aid. 
1n th€ llttl€ theat~€ 
Business & Technology_T_hurs_day_,Feb_ruary_3._198_3_pag:...._e 
Economic Update 
Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A. voicker 
warned Congress today that commercial banks could precipitate a global "financial crisis" if they stop lending to the world's develop­ing nations because offear they will never recover billions ofdollars in loans. In testimony before the House Banking Committee, the nation's chief banking regulator said that the worsening debt problems of economicallv troubled Third World nations "can be dealt with effectively" by banks and governments in the in­dustrialized world. Numerous developing countries, particularly Mexico. Brazil and Argentina, have been unable to meet tens of bil­lions of dollars in debt payments in the last year because of the severe global recession and decline in international trade. The situa­tion could lead to major defaults on loans, collapses of some major banks and a worsening of the world economic picture, many banking experts fear. · -AP 
Wall Street Update _ 
The StOCk market turned in a mixed showing Wed­neesday, leveling off after the wide swings of the past two sessions. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, up 10.95 Mondav and off 
15.91 Tuesday, rose 2.85 to 1,062.64. Volume on the Big Board totaled 77.22 million shares, down from 82."75 million in the pre­vious session. Analysts said many investors were convinced that a recovery from the recession was at hand, if not already under waY. Appearing hefi:Jre the House Banking Committee, Chairman Pa~l Volcker of the Federal Reserve said the economy "may be taking a tlrst step" toward recovery. -AP 

SENIORS May 1983is just months away, what next? CONSIDER an alternative 
A I year postgraduate experience stressing: service, simple living, and Christian community. HCA volunteers are in several American cities. 
for more information contact: Mary Ann Roemer, .239-7949 Center for Social Concerns 
Applicationsare now auailable. Deadlir~e for application feb. 8, 1983 
Deficit fears 
Budget revisions possible 
WASHINGTON (AP) Top Reagan administration officials told Congress yesterday there may be room for compromise in two budget areas -military spending and the 10 perccnt tax cut. Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan indicated the ad­ministration might be willing to compromise with Democrats seeking repeal or delay of the tax cut scheduled to show up in pay checks this summer. 
"If you show us your cards, we will show you ours," Regan said un­
der  hostile  questioning  from  
Democrats  on the  House Budget  
Committee.  

At the same time, budget director David Stockman hinted at a possible compromise in the a_dministration's proposed S30 billion increase for defense in tlscal 1984. 
Appearing before the Senate Budget Committee, Stockman said, "If you can tlnd things in there that you can persuade the administration aren't needed, I'm sure people will listen." 
In contrast, Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said lOuesday on Capitol Hill that no cut was possible in the administration's proposed military budget without endanger­ing national security. 
The reduction in withholding scheduled for july is the third under President Reagan's broad tax­reduction measure enacted in 1981. Many Democrats have said they will 
seek to delay or kill it to reduce the S208 billion deficit expected this year. Regan said the tax cut will reduce 
revenues by 527 billion, but is needed to encourage both saving and spending by consumers that will sustain the economic recovery now just beginning. · · 
Democrats say the cut is applied unevenly. And they say the reduc­tion in federal deficits that would result from repeal would do more for economic growth because inter­est rates would come down, encouraging investments in new business. 
Testifying two days after the presi­
dent sent his fiscal 1984 budget plan 
to Capitol Hill, Regan was asked 
repeatedly why the administration 
refuses to budge on the income tax 
cut, tax indexing due to take effect 
in 1985 and proposals for a standby 
tax to take hold in 1986 ifthe federal 
deficit continues to shoot upward. 
"Why can't you put it (the tax issues) on the table?" Rep. james Jones, D-Okla., chairman of the budget panel, asked Regan. 
"This is day two of the budget and 
already you want suggestions that 
we change it," said Regan. 
But he added·. "This might be pos­sible when we see what you want to compromise to." 
The Treasury official urged Democrats to prepare a tax proposal of their own which might be negotiated for a compromise solu­tion. 
The administration also opposes any new big jobs bill, but Republican and Democratic leaders are going ahead with plans for a public works bill to lower the nation's 10.8 per­cent unemployment rate. 
-
1984 DEFICIT: nall adds up to a minus 
Greater exposure sought 
Profs investigate sports marketing 
ByPATSAIN 
StaffReporter 
Can traditional marketing tech­
niques be used to "sell" sporting 
events? The marketing department 
at Notre Dame has been investigat­
ing the possibilities of applying 
marketing research to spectator 
sports. 
Spectator sports in America is "a 
multi-billion dollar industry that has 
been ignored" as a serious market­
ing possibility. say marketing chair­
man Mike Etzel and Professor John 
Gaski. Little is known about why 
people spend money to watch sport­
ing events, Etzel said. 
"We thought it was about timc 
spectator sports received some 
scholarly attcntion," Professor Gaski 
stated. "There has not been a lot of 
good work done in the tleld," he 
continued, noting that he and Etzel 
have already held one research col­
loquium on applying marketing 
technology to spectator sports. 
__,lloquium. which was sponsored in part by the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Green Bay Packers, the San Diego Padres, and the American Marketing Association. was held at Notre Dame last April. 
Etzel has been invited to put to­gether a spec1al session for the na­tional conference of the Marketing Association. He plans to get several marketmg practitioners and resear­chers together and propose the idea ofsports marketing ro them. 
According to Gaski. an important reason t()r these seminars is to bring exposure to the Notre Dame marketing department. The underly­mg reason. however. is that sports form a ~ignificant part of our economy, and are of social impor­tance. 
Sports, he noted, b the onlv in­dust£")· in the count£")' which h~s its 
~ 
$189 billion lj--.;
l».
It-
I~ 
~ 
I_!! 
Prevoously
~ 
I_M 
authorozed
~ 
LM spendong
~ 
~~ $55 billion
~ 
~ I~ 
U!
~ 
u~
~ 
I_M 
~ 
It-,,I~ 
It-
Tax cuts 
(estimated)
~ Ifl. 
$63 billion K ~ 
~ ~ 
tjl . 
~ 
Defense
11 
$26 bRUon 
~ 
11 
~ 
Socoal Secunty 
and Medocare 
tl 
tJ
~ 
$23 billion
~ 
~ lj
u. 
Other domestoe spendong 
~ 
$22 billion
!J
~ 
j ~
">--.. L! 
·:: ····:· AP/NfiWI Gr1phoc1 
Reagan administration officials discussed a possible budget com­promise for fiscal 1984 with Congress Wednesday amidst fears that the 1984 deficit might swell beyond the projected S/89 billion without revisions. 
The harried, deskbound ex­ecutive who spends his days making tough decisions is an American stereotype. He is the one. most people would predict, who is heading for a heart attack, while the blue-collar worker. free from the pressure of making decisions and kept fit by physical labor, will enjoy robust health until well past retire­
ment. 
:"'ot so. according to researchers from Columbia l"niversity and Sweden's National institute for Psyc­hosocial Factors and Health. In realit)". they say. the fewer decisions a worker is allowed to make on the job. the greater his chance of 
developing coronary heart disease. 
For three years, the American and Swedish researchers, lt:d by Robert Karasek. a professor of mdustrial engineering at Columbia, have been studying the relationship between job responsibilities and health in more than -t,OOO men in both the own section in the newspaper, and its own segment on television news broadcasts. 
The goal of Etzel's sports market­ing research is to determine why people watch sports. "People buy this product called spectator sports because they see that it will provide them with some satisfaction," Gaski stated. 
Research in this area could find out what form this satisfaction takes. For some people, sports provides a change ofpace. an emotional outlet, or a chance to argue with the coach's game strategy, 
Not all sports have a need for marketing research, however. For example, there is enough demand for football so that it sells itself. 
The common factor among suc­cessful teams is that they make an effort to find out what the customer wants, which Gaski says, is the basic detlnition of marketing. 
Overall. Etzel said that the con­cept behind his proposed research is that "What we have learned in sell­ing soap might be useful to those selling tickets." 
Coronaries linked to job responsibilities 
Vnited States and Sweden. 
Their main finding: the risk of 
heart disease is higher for 
emplovees who work under 
pressure and have little say about 
how a job should be done. 
This conclusion coincides with 
the results of a separate research 
project in Sweden. which showed 
that having little control over a 
heavy workload can trigger hor­
monal t·hanges that might lead to heart disease. 
Although ~pecific high-risk oc­cupations have not yet been iden­tified, Karasek says assemblv-line jobs might he typical. So might the jobs of waiter or customer-service representative tor the telephone company, because they require coping with an angry public. 
The team now hopes to tlnd ways of modifying jobs so that factors threatening the heart are reduced or eliminated. 
DiscoverNews Sen.•ice 
1 
' 
t 
The Observer 
Art department n1oves to new building 
By SCOIT HARDEK 
StaffReporter 
The specter of a leaking roof and falling plaster should no lon­ger haunt the dreams of art stu­dents. Their redemption comes in the form of movement of the Art Department from the fieldhouse to the renovated old Chemistry building. 
The building houses seven of the eight curriculums within the Art Department and already is used for classes. The remaining curriculum, Art History, remains in the renovated section of O'Shaugnessy Hall. The Isis Gallery also is now located in the Chemistry building and will sport its first exhibit from its new location, a retrospective show of student work, on Monday. 
Professor Frederick Beckman, chair of the Art Department, said he is extremely pleased with the renovation and "the faculty is ecstatic." He cited the studios and offices available to faculty as major advantages to _the new building. Beckman feels that these features will provide a place for the private work and retreat needed in his discipline. 
The major structural changes to the building include the addi­tion of skylights and an entrance facing O'Shaugnessy Hall. The renovation will be complete in about ten days when the north­ern addition, which will house the foundry and ceramic facilities, is finished. 
Although there is less room in the renovated building than in the fieldhouse, Beckman ex­plained that the area can be used much more efficiently and is 
·more than adequate. 
ThisDeskCan Reach Mach 2. 
Some desk jobs are making authority. more exciting than In the air, and on the others. ground, you have 
As a Navy pilot management responsi­or flight officer, your bility from the begin­desk can be a sophis­ning. And your ticated combination responsibility grows 

of supersonic jet air­craft and advanced electronic equipment. But you can handle it. Because Navy flight training gives you the navigation, aerodynamics and other technical know-how you need. 
In return, Navy aviation demands something of you as an officer: Leadership. 
Your path to leadership starts with officer training that's among the most demanding in the military. It's intensive leadership and professional schooling combined with rigorous Navy flight training. And it's all geared to prepare you and other college 
Thursday, February 3, 1983 -page 6 
Lois Kress 
Women told to be achievers 
By ANNE MONASlYRSKI 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Despite the many injustices and prejudices against women in the working world, "it's worth hanging in there," said Lois Kress, Director of Personel for Koopers and Lybrandt, a public accounting firm. 
Kress, who addressed prospective business women at Saint Mary's yes­terday, said "there's nothing you women can't achieve if you want to." 
As for existing injustices, Kress said, "we are going to change them, but its going to take time." Kress of­fered these tips to help women get 
ahead in the working world since 
there is "a lot ofrisk involved." 
"Be technically competent; you won't he promoted unless you per­form well. Know how to work hard at the right thing. Raise your sights, but set realistic goals. Re-enforce your luck," Kress said. 
She added that many people who are in the right place at the right time are not smart enough to take advantage of the opportunity. 
Becoming an integral part of the organization for which you work is necessary to "find out about the in­formal organizational chart," Kress said, adding that within this "informal chart" the new worker 
The Chemical Engineering major
continuedfrom page 1 
asserts that he would use his "past 
with the administration and the Hall experience and qualifications," President's Council. Boone, a Flan­which include serving on hall staff, ner sophomore, suggests having a 
for "positive motives" in the Senate. representative of the student body 
He says the students believe the at administration meetings. 
Senate is "all hark and no bite," while 
graduates for the r~v7o;;o-;;u~;; ---~-;;-;, l for the sky. Reach for 
I 
INFORMATION CENTER I
unique challenge of P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 the coupon. Find out 
Navy aviation. The I D Please send me more information about becom-I what it takes to be ing a member of the Naval Aviation Tham. (QJA) I
program is tough but part of the Naval
I 
Name__~~--~~~~~--~~-----­
First (Please Print) Last 1 Address Apt. 11----1
rewarding. Aviation Team. You 
One important could have a desk 
1 City State Zi I
reward for Navy that flies at twice the
I Age___tCollege/University I
officers is decision-speed of sound. 
:j:Year in College •GPA 
I.A.Major/Minor·-------------------------1 

1 
Phone Number I 
1Area Code) Beat Time to Call 
I 
This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to I furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi·
L::::.s::::::::a::.____~ ~ j 
NavyOfficers 
Get ResponsibilityFast. 
as you gain experience. No company can give you this kind of leadership responsibility this fast. And nothing beats the sheer excitement of Navy flying. 
The salary is exciting, too. Right away, you'll earn about $18,300 a year. That's better than the average corpora­tion will pay you just outof college. And with regular Navy promotions and other pay increases, your annual salary will soar to $31,100 after four years. That's on top of a full package of benefits and privileges. 
Before you settle down to an earth­
bound desk job, reach 
will find a mentor. Having a mentor is an "important aspect of achieving goals." Kress said. She advised a new worker to use the informal chart "to find out what you need to know and connect with someone." 
"Be gutsy," in dealing with businessmen, Kress said. "Make sure they look at you as a colleague. not as a gopher," Kress added. 
Kress cautioned women who want to maintain several roles. "You can't be superwoman."Kress said. Becoming a career woman, a wife and a mother is "great, but you can't do everything 100 percent." 
• Campaign 
"the administration is stitling" its ef­forts. 
Boone would "seek the students' points of view" on the issues. l-Ie supports saving the fieldhouse, improving the parking facilities on campus, initiating a reduced meal plan, installing Cable TV, huilding a new student center. and putting laundry facilities in men's dorms. 
R. Michael Quinn would like to "improve communications on the Quad." Ifelected, the Flannersopho­more will publish '·a monthly newsletter and attend a different Hall's Council meeting each week. 
One issue the Business major sup­ports is "placing a men's laundry in the North Quad or the Towers." He would also "seek input from the people" he represents. 
IfCable TV is installed on campus, Quinn feels it should be "paid for by the people who actually use it, not by an across-the-board tax." He also says "LaFortune is not adequate" as a student center and favors improve­ments to it or the building of a new center. 
• • .PACE 
continuedfrom page 1 
in the next few years. Leonardo projects a substantial increase in the recruiting of minority students as a result of the proposed increases in financial aid. 
While Leonardo proclaimed the PACE report "tremendously positive" for the admissions office, he also stated that the "fear of making the commitment to private education" may pave a rough road in the future. "People are skeptical of making the sacrifice of sending stu­dents to a private University," he added. The PACE report calls for in­creases in admissions office staff and facilities. 
.. Holography 
continuedfrom page 3 
Although holography sounds complicated and scientific, Jackson claims that a six-year old could create a holograph in five mint: ; . "The hardest part about holography is explaining it." She believes that the artist should not be concerned with how holography works, but with what it creates. "The holog­rapher cannot let his subject control him. He must control his subject." 
Jackson also stressed the creative value of holography. "We have final­ly taken away the conventional pad and paper. Holography deals with the essentials -space and light. lfit is good art, it will survive, because good art reaches out and touches 
us.u 
.. 
Editorials 
Thursday, February 3, 1983 -page 7 
I 
The Make...up of a man 
Thts. week's tJ.:7icle lays the foundation for future development ofseveral ethical issues current~}' being debated in The Observer, 
nnmPI)I, birth contro( prtnnarital SP.-.:, and homosexuali~V. For discussion of these or any issues concerning the actions of man, proper consideration must first be given to the very make-up ofa man. 
John Regalbuto 
Attempts at Reason 
American society is sick. It is not as healthy as it could be, due to an overwhelming aftlic­tion among its citizens or a lack of self­awareness and selfrespect. In this country, we are misguided. We do not know our own spirituality. 
A priest, taking a graduate psychology course at Notre Dame. once showed me a very nice little diagram of the make-up of man's psyche. It showed three blocks, three com· ponents stacked one on top of the other. The 
bottom was a Freudian description of man ­his animal or physical side. This block con­tains man's most instinctive needs, those for food, shelter, and sex. Human science also describes the second level, man's social needs. These have to do with the need to feel accepted, to have one's goodness affirmed by others. We feel security in numbers, excite­ment around a crowd. 
The highest level of this structure is not so amenable to scientific description; this, the ennobling aspect of man, centers around the very powerful but intangible concept of love. It is the spirituality of man that sets him apart from animals. Man has the capacity to be hap­py, not just safe and full of food. He has the capacity and the need to love. To love -to freely and consciously care for his fellow man. 
Spirituality connotes a humble recognition of a loving Deity, implying that thece is some­thing more to man than flesh and blood. Spirituality adds true meaning, dignity, and respect to the make-up of man. but since its 
qualities are intangible, its acknowledgement can be dispelled. The acceptance of this notion, then, re­quires faith. 
Without faith shaping our spirituality, what can man become? Too much emphasis on the me, or animal level, creates an arrogant, closed-minded individual. The Macho Man seeks to dominate physically, apd the Snobby Intellectual tries to dominate mentally. "Who are you compared to me?" On a broader scale, this country's great relative rate of violent crime might well be evidence of the physical approach to solving problems. 
Too much emphasis placed on the social level breeds joe Cool and Chic Woman, the weak, attention-starved individuals ofsociety. The "\'alley Girl Mentality" degrades a man or w~man by the "assumming of roles," not catering to their thoughts, but to their guesses ofother's thoughts. Might a measure ofthe in­ablility of Americans to sincerely commun­icate their thoughts and feelings be the reason hl"hind thl" nation:ll diYorlT rate of fifty per­cent? 
A healthy person possesses unbalanced respect for his whole make-up, physical, so­cial, and spiritual. A healthy view of human beings also possesses respect for these three aspects. Sadly, and all too often, individual ethical decisions are based on a framework that doesn't give human beings the respect they are due. By exclusion ofthe spiritual side of man, limiting him to only a physical and so-. cia! being, abortion can be and is condoned. Premarital sex and promiscuity proliferate. Violent crime and divorce rage. 
Society can attempt to treat the symptoms of sickness; we can have the cheapest and quickest divorce courts, the best trained policemen, the most efficient abortion doc­tors and the smoothest legislation, but the · solution to the cause of American sickness could well nigh be impossible. From the scale of the individual, a greater respect for life needs to be established; through faith, a greater perception and fostering of spirituality. 
P.O. BoxQ 
Sports Illustrated misrepresents ND athletics 
Dear Editor.­
Recently a very flattering article was 
published in !>ports Illustrated about the 
athletic program here at Notre Dame. While 
philosophers argue that nothing is perfect, 
the author of this article made an eloquent 
case that Notre Dame is Utopia for any 
student-athlete. In many ways the oppor­
tunity provided for student-athletes here is 
far superior to other major universities and 
we would not trade our experiences here 
for any other. However, our experiences as 
varsity athletes and monogram winners tells us that Notre Dame is not as virtuous as the Sports Illustrated article contends. This situation needs to be commented on with the hope that a few minor changes will oc­cur either in policy or the facade we present. 
According to theSports Illustrated article the University policy regarding athletics is as follows: athletics is one opportunity Notre Dame provides to all its students on an equal basis. Notre Dame is a major University that also has a football team, a basketball team (men's and women's), a golf team, etc. The people who participate in these sports are not simply athletes, they are student· athletes. To achieve the goal of total excel­lence in a complete education Notre Dame supports all areas of a student's develop­ment. Every student on this campus is given equal support and encouragement to obtain an excellent education. Because the ad­ministration sees athletics as another area where a person can develop and perfect a skill, they support athletics equally as well. • They give student-athletes excellent chemistry labs to study in and excellent 
facilities and competitions to practice in. 
Our concern is with the extent to which the University really adheres to this policy. We would like to present a few examples of actions on the part of the athletic depart­ment that we feel are not in accord with their stated policy. 
We are all aware ofthe plight ofour hock­ey team. The hockey team is not operating at a profit and Mr. Corrigan complains that there is a lack of student support for the program. If Mr. Corrigan wants to drop the program because of the lack of student sup­port, then we must question who the program is for? Is it for the student-athlete who wants to develop a skill or is its future dependent upon its entertainment value? 
We are quick to admit that we are not _a~are of the fmancia~uation of the ath· 
letic department and this argument could be stronger ifwe did have statistics to back our­selves up. However, a little common sense seems to lead most people to believe that there is a great deal of money coming into this University. In addition to common sense, a few people inside the athletic department have revealed to us that there is a very unequal distribution of available funds not to mention a gross waste of money. We recognize the importance of the revenue sports to this University, and we have supported them for many years arld plan to continue to do so in the future. Ifthe University really believes that all athletic ex­periences are equally important, they should rejoice in the fact that we have 
revenue sports. Without these sports many ofthe other sports would not exist and many student-athletes would not get the oppor­tunity that they presently have. The money they obtain should be shared for the mutual benefit of the entire University. 
Another area we would like to point out is the concept ofequal opportunities -in this case equal facilities. It follows from the Uni­versity policy that all athletes should be given facilities to develop their talents. Would the University ever limit the use of the library to students with a 3.4 GPA or stu· dents on academic scholarship? Many student-athletes are denied access to a facility that is equally important to their success. 
Success in sports today depends on the proper physical development in many areas; conditioning, technique, timing, flexibility, and increased strength. It is clear that the athletic department understands the impor­tance of weight training. They have gone to great trouble and expense to provide an ex­cellent weight training facility and they have hired an excellent weight coach, Gary Wei!. The problem is that the facility is used on a very prohibitive basis. The most logical and beneficial time to lift weights is after class and before 'dinner. Classes are a higher priority and as such the morning and early afternoon is reserved for their attendance. After dinner is also not an acceptable time to lift weight~ because ofthe physiological ef­fects of food on performance levels. After eating the physiological capacities are reduced as is the effective aspect ofexercise. We doubt there would be any objection to this from the football office. Their actions clearly demonstrate that they understand this, they have demanded the exclusive use 
ofthe weightroom from 3 to 6 p.m. on Mon­day, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday! We don't believe this is in accord with the Uni­versity's policy regarding equal oppor­tunities to all student-athletes. 
The football team has just finished its compt·titive season and b now eight months away from the next. We don't mean to imply they can afford to wait until later to begin working. Time spent now would definitely help the team. However, what are the other sports to do now? Men's and women's ten­nis, hockey, track, golf, baseball, men's and women's swimming, lacrosse, and men's and women's fencing are all now either involved in their seasons or will be very soon. What is the administration's real attitude toward these sports? Is this indicative of their real attitude regarding some student-athletes? Do the I00 football players have priority over the nearly 400 other varsity athletes? In practice this seems to be the case. Some­where, in practic~, their admirable policy is reduced to a simple platitude. 
There are several other areas we wish to point out as examples of actions by the ath­letic department that don't seem to be in ac­cord with their public policy. 
The Sports Illustrated article states that the football team receives the same food as the rest of the students. This is clearly not the case. First, they receive an entree at din­ner and second, they receive a "snack pack" to take home after the meal. The "snack pack" includes a sandwich, chips, fruit, candy, and other assorted items. The players are also privy to protein supplements not available to the rest of the University, not even to other varsity athletes. This policy is common knowledge and no one really ob­jects to it. Its purpose is understood and ac­cepted, so why tell Sports Illustrated otherwise? 
The section of the ACC which contains the indoor track is shared during the winter and early spring by the track team, the baseball team, and the men's and women's tennis team. This arrangement involves a good deal of flexibility on the part of all these programs. It involves a great deal more patience when the football team decides to have indoor practice and takes the facility for their private use with only minutes notice. In much the same line, the track team has been denied the use ofthe outdoor track when the football team has closed practices. Here again we must question the athletic ~g>art_!!lent's _priorities. Is the goal athletic 
excellence or football success? Does the track team really pose such a threat to the football team that it must he denied the facility it requires? 
Another blatant case of preferential treat­ment for one group of athletes is the policy of not publishing the football players' phone numbers. This was done for good reasons no· doubt, but why doesn't it apply to all ath­letes? If the athletic department really feels that there is enough reason to justify not publishing the phone numbers of the foot­ball team, shouldn't those same reasons app­ly to all athletes? One would assume that this was done to benefit the football players and to increase their chances of success. Wouldn't that be something they would want for all the athletes? The way this separates the team from the rest of the stu­dent body is another question all together. 
There are other areas we would like to see cleared up or addressed. Sports Illustrated said that we have no booster club. What are the Quarterback Club and the Tipoff Club? What is the status ofthe athletic endowment fund and what will be its use? How will the funds be allocated? Why are we building a new swimming complex at enormous cost and cancelling the hockey team at the same time? Are we really holding up the policy regarding academic standards for athletes? According to one source in the athletic department this is one area where the ath­letic department might be "a bit on the cuff." Does the football team really need a budget of 5400,000 per year for recruiting alone? 
If this begins to sound like we are putting down the University, perhaps in a way we are. Credit for that must also go to the Uni­versity. Among the virtues we have learned here, honesty ranks highly. We have also been taught to stand up for the things we believe in. At the moment, we feel we have to stand up for these issues. As student­athletes, we put a lot of faith in the Univer­sity policy in the hopes that we will get the opportunity to develop our minds and our bodies to their fullest extent. At the moment 
we are afraid that the athletic department has lost sight of its position in the Notre Dame community and that many student­athletes are being denied the opportunity to achieve their goal of excellence. All we are asking is that the Unive,·sity put into practice their public policy and support the develop­ment ofstudent-athletes equaily and honest· ly. 
Over 25 varsft)' athletes 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk Business Manager.............................Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager....................... Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eitl-ter institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMC ExecutiiJe Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Mucphy 
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor................................... Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the viewsoftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..................... joseph.Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on ~ampus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor .............................. ... Rachel Bloum Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303 

~jb()f1tS=~~~~i=~~=S===============================Th=u=rs=d=~~·=Fe=b=ru=a~=·=3=,1=9=8=3==p=a=ge==8
By The Ohserwr and The Assf!cittted Press 
The Irish swin!ine.r~ won. a met:t last night, downing Albion College, 61·35, at the Rockne Memoriai Poe!. Next dip for Notre Dame is this Saturday against the University ofToledo at The Rock. -The Obsen,er 
Kelly Tripucka scored 40 points last night 
to follow up Ns .Sunday night performance of 56 points, but the Indiana Pacers defeated the Detroit Pistons for the first time this year, 141-135, in a National Basketball Association game Wednesday night. The Pacers' Clark Kellogg scored 22 points, and had a career­high 21 rebounds. Detroit, 23-24, cut the gap to five, 85-80, on a Tripucka jump shot with 8:50 remaining in the third quarter. But the Pacers pushed the lead back at the end of three periods, 1 1 1-100. Indiana led by as many as 16, 133-117, with 3:20 remaining, but Detroit scored the next 12 in two minutes and six seconds to cut the gap to four on a free throw by lsiah Thomas, 133-129. Marty Byrnes hit a 15-foot baseline jumper with 53 seconds remaining to up the Pacer lead to 135-129. Tripucka hit a three-pointer with 43 seconds remaining to narrow the lead to three but that was the closest the Pistons could come as Indiana hit six ofits final eight free throws for 
a six-point victory. -AP 
The Notre Datne weightlifting club will 
hold its first meeting on Sunday, Feb. 6 at 1:00 p.m. in the weightroom on the third floor of the Rockne Memorial. Attendance is very important. Memberships will be taken and special club hours and policies will be explained. Anyone interested in weightlifting, bodybuilding, or powerlifting (no experience necessary) is welcome. Ifyou are interested, but are unable to attend, call Matt at 1581 or Pat at 8677. -The Observer 
M* • Dolphin fullback Andra
Fr~ says he's looking optimistically to the future, not regretfully back to Sunday's Super Bowl loss to Washington. "I hope that playing in the Super Bowl will be good experience for us in the future," said Franklin, a member of the American Conference All­Stars for this Sunday's Pro Bowl game. "I was just happy to be in the Super Bowl. It could be a once in a lifetime thing or it might come again ...soon," he said. "It was something we worked very hard for, and we know now what it takes to get there." Franklin, a powerful 5-10, 225-pounder, carried 16 times for 49 yards in the 27-.17loss to Washington. "Sunday night after the game, I had a real feeling of emptiness," he said, "like something had just slipped away from us. 
"We ofcourse wanted very badly to win and we had a chance for it all. But that was washed away by the Redskins. They dominated the game in the second half." Washington overcame a 17-10 halftime deficit to score 1 7 straight points. Franklin said being voted into the Pro Bowl by his fellow NFL players and coaches was an unexpcted honor. "It's nothing I foresaw happening to me in my career," said Franklin, the AFC's second-leading rusher with 701 yards on 177 carries during the strike-interrupted season. "It's a great honor for me; it's been a good year." -AP 
Washingtonians by the thousands 
ignored a noontime downpour yesterday to declare "Hog Love" for their Supci Bowi championship football team, the Washington· Rcdskins. Politicians got in the act, tOO, w!tn;; resolution adopted by the city council thanking the team "for bringing to the cii:y a ~t!!~!:" of identity and common cause, which the District of Columbia has not enjoyed for a considerable time." About I0,000 fans gathered under umbrellas at the DistriCt Building -Washington's city hall -and police said that 30,000 to -iO,OOO people lined stately Constitution Avenue for a parade to the foot of Capitol Hill. In a ceremony, Redskins coach Joe Gibbs commended the fans for their turnout in the rain and said it was testimony that the city had the greatest fans in the country. Displaying the Super Bowl trophy, he said each of the fans owns a little bit of it. On Sunday, the Redskins beat the Miami Dolphins, 27-17, for their t!rst National Football League champion­
ship in 41 years. -AP 
Notre Datne-Fordhatn tickets for the Feb. 10 
game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half-price to students at the ACC tickc;t office. The Irish play the second game ofa doubleheader with Manhattan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are $5. -The Observer 
Any remaining participants in the men's un· 
dergrad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should call the NVA office at 239-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­ment moving. -The Observer 
NCAA-VFY volunteers are reminded to pick up 
their tickets for Saturday's South Carolina game in Steve Orsini's office any time this week. If you have any questions, contact one of the student directors. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC women's gymnastics club 
placed third out of four teams last weekend at a meet held at Val· paraiso University, Junior Denise McHugh took first place in the all· around competition, while Anne Stubbs and Cheryl Sydow finished third and fourth, respectively. Megan Zillig and Kathy Wolter also made solid contributtions to the Irish cause, as Notre Dame captured more individual ribbons than any other team. This weekend, the men's and women's squads both travel to Oxford, Ohio, for the Miami Cup meet at Miami University. The team plays its 
• first home match Saturday, Feb. 12 at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 10 

Ph1ladelph1a 
Bcston 
New Jersey Wash1ngton New York 
Milwaukee 
AUa.nta. 
Detroit 
Ch1cago 
lnd1ana Cleveland 
San Anton1o Kansas C1ty Dallas Denver Ulah Houston 
Los Angeles Portland Phoenix Seattle 
NBA Eastern Conference 
Atlantic Division w L 39 6 36 10 
17 20 :25 19 27 Central Division 31 17 
3~ 
~" "~ 
23 24 16 31 15 30 9 37 
Western Conference Midwest Division w L 29 19 24 22 22 23 22 26 18 30 9 37 Pacific Division 34 10 27 19 28 20 26 20 
Golden Stale  19  26  
San D1ego  14  33  
Yesterday's Results  

Boston 120, San D1ego 1 10 lnd1ana 141, Detro11 135 New Jersey 1 1 8. Cleveland 1 05 Kansas C1ty 117, Wash1ngton 1 15 New York 109. San Anton1o 98 Dallas 122, Los Angeles 120 Houslon 1 35, Denver 1 28 Phoemx 1 1 2. Utah 96 Seattle 1 17, Milwaukee 1 14 413 20.5 
Pet.  GB  
867  
783  3.5  
638  10  
444  19  

646 
490 75 
489 75 340 14.5 333 14 5 196 21 
Pet. GB 604 522 4 489 55 458 7 375 11 
196 19 
'173 587 8 583 8 565 9 422 15.5 298 21.5 

PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division 
w  L  T  GF  GA Pis.  
Boston  33  10  8  201  134  74  
Montreal  28  14  10  243  184  66  
Buffalo  25  17  10  201  167  60  
Quebec  25  21  6  229  214  56  
Hartford  13  34  6  170  262  32  
Patrick Division  
Philadelphia  34  13  7  224  152  75  
N Y Islanders  28  17  9  199  156  65  
Washington  25  16  12  209  184  62  
NY. Rangers  23  23  7  198  186  53  
New Jersey  11  31  11  145  216  33  
P1ffsburgh  12  33  7  157  246 31  

CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Division 
w L T GF GA Pis Edmonton 29 15 10 289 217 68 Calgary 21 25 8 217 227 so W1nmpeg 20 26 7 200 223 47 Vancouver 17 25 10 187 206 44 Los Angeles 16 27 8 183 238 40 
Norris Division Ch1cago 33 14 7 232 187 73 Mmnesota 26 14 13 219 190 65 St. LOUIS 17 28 10 191 214 44 Toronto 13 28 10 191 224 36 Detro1t 12 29 12 162 223 36 
Yesterday's Results M1nneso1a 2, Buffalo 2 Sl. LoUis 4, De1r01t 3 Toronto 7, Hartford 1 Ch1cago 7, P1ffsburgh 4 Ph1ladelph1a 6, Winn1peg 3 
The Observer w111 accept class1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. class1fieds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1f1eds·must be prepaid. 
e1ther 1n person or through the mali. 
Classifieds 
HELP' I need a nde to PITTSBURGH Need 1 S Carolina GA.call6664' WANTED RIDE TO PURDUE Have you losl 11 yet? Check the LOST area weekend of Feb 11-13 or back on WEEKEND OF THE 4TH CALL x1256 AND FOUND 
,__N_O_TI_C_Es---Jjl._____F_O_R_RE_N_T____. 
Feb 141 W1ll share usual Please call TEA· NEED TIX · STUDENT OR G a · FOR AI x6797 S C GAME SATURDAY KATIE 8050 JIM MacLENNAN S1nce you re always ESCAPE TO MADISONIW1sc Club bus wntmg w•tty and mvent1ve Personals. we Need stud S C 11x lor brothers Call Dan charter on Feb ·1 1 · 13 Only $24 S1gn-up thouqht wed send YOU one lsn t 11 won­1612 Thurs. Feb 3 6· 7pm Basement derful to see that somebody actually TYPING AVAILABLE 287~4082 LaFortune. All welcome! cares?
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE oO NO GOOD 
FOR SALE 
Need 2 GAs or student t1xs lo lhe S Car TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 AREAS 2773604 game Will pay b1g bucks'!,! Call Sco11 Cop1es ol Michelle and A1ta Murphys 
3265 parenls letter to student body available 1n FOR SALE, TEAC A23DOSX REEL TO TWO ROOMS WITH BATH ALL Campus M1n1stry oft1ces Bad1n Hall and oh. gee Ri::EL TAPE DECK, EXCELLENT CON· HELP'I need some llx HELP! Not JUSt any Library
UTILITIES PAID MALE PREFFERED USED. OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS 
PRIVATE ENTERANCE 2880955
DITION $250 CALL 272-3634 AFTER BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED t1x HELP' I need 3 GAs for I he So 
7 00 PM IF YOU ARE A ROMER DOMER ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE Carolina B·Ball game.Tom-288· STUDENT RENTAL 4·BEDROOM
81-81 THEN STOP BY THE VILLA ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY· 8004 HELP' 
SA MARY LOU. BPWILL SURELY MISS 1 lURSDAY NIGHT FOR A FROLIC JEFFERSON INTERSECTION
HOUSE. CALL 232·4057. 272· 7767 DALEY FOR MAYOR
YOU MAY GOD CONTINUALLY BLESS 
)W Need S Carolina 11x Student or G A Call Anv student Interested mhelpmg the A1ch
YOU IN ALL YOUR ENDEAVORS AS FOR SALE 1 .round 1np lo anywhere that Ed 277-1705 Daley lor Mayorcampa1gn. please attend 
YOUR PAST TWO YEARfl HAVE BLEST 
P1edmont Airlines files S 8 . a mermg on the f1rst floor of Latonune on
us 
NYC ,Denver.Boston,Dallas.Fionda Saturday. Feb 5 al 2 DO P M 
I WANTED 
and many more spots Call Mark at 1725 NOBISI AMPLIFIE:R FOR ELECTRIC GUITAR Okay N/A. now that you have vour salad NOBIS!!
[ LOST/FOUND l Need PERSONALS
nr1ers to U of IIChampa1gn1 
OR PIANO 120 WATTS RMS. 2 1 21NCH bowl -how about d1nner? And/or break· NOBIS!!I Feb 1 1 · 13. CALL 6664 or 43041 SPEAKERS. EXCEL COND CALL DAN last McCAHTAli Corne see 1h1s grE>at band tonight al 
1849 Semor Bar tearunnq B1ll Hennessey t ST--gold rtecklace wrth ·a m1t1at DAYTON DAYTON DAYTON Need LOOK FOR THE WOMEN MOVIE .:~ra ~hd' Sensual Dorner him­c arm probably lost 1t rn or near the A1de<s to Dayton tor Fen 4·6 Call Pal •t 82 SILVER CAMARRO Z·28.Sports OPEN HOUSE AT THE CENTER FOR WEEK self E Kev1n Ro~e: ~ Jck please catl annal 1822. 1694 Coupe New Style. V-8 Crosst~re InjeCtion SOCIAL CONCERNS TODAY ALL FEB 7·1 1 SMC CARROLL HALL H€'re s wtlaltt"!e ..--...cs are saytng 
Wh1te Letter Rad1als.Cassette NDU STUDENTS, FACULTY AND There was Elv.:: McCartney, .Jaqger 
l st· A brown Nlnter Jacke"t at Campus NEED 5 G A s lor S Caro11na B·Ball Slereo.Loaded 9 Monlhs Old Call 239· STAFF ARE CORDIALLY INVITED. EARN MONEY ~NO EXPERIENCE BY -3.na no..-. E Kev1n Rose -Don \ lw. Apl 207 If you picked 1t up by game $$$ Call Mana 284·514 7 7475 3:30-5:30 P.M. SELLING SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISIMG Klfschfler no~stake call J1m a1 3632. The 1acket was CALL BRIAN AT 1082 OR 239 7569 Rose. 15 me ~t·co'1d commq ot Er.c lest at the party on Friday 1/28/83. Need ride to CHICAGO on Fnday 4 Feb SENIORS Clapton --Ro/Jir'lg .•:tone 
Call Mark at 21 03 FOR 1983-84 VOLUNTEER WORK Job Bemk •oil OIJel"'mg <11 Computerland E: t<.evm Hnse 1h the sex.est male ~ver LOST one clean env~ronmenl If you WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES IN 1n Mt<;hiiwrtka Pan·l1me work needed 1n to qr ace tPe stage -Cosmopolitan
TICKETS
CARE. come to the Enwonmental Con· I Need a ride to the central Mich area SEVERAL US CITIES, APPLICATIONS reta11 and compuler sales For 1nfo call MagazmR cerns Orgamzat1on meetmg tonrght weekend of Feb. 11-13. Please call DUE FEBRUARY 8Tt•. CALL MARY Jonn Nelson ~~ 256·5688 8e at SAn1or Bar lon,ght and .,,r.,ess (Thursday) at the K of C, 6·30 Maggoe 284-4345 ANN ROEMER, 7949. ,hiS yreat event as NobiS does •IS f!""rbute • 
HELP1 1 neert sometpc: HELP' Not just an\' MIKE JUSt wanted to thank you tor the to Nn01<;. :he -:lear!y·~1~par1ed "lascut or HELP' I ve lost my neart. Do you know RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE: TTHIS t1x HELP' 1 need 3 GAs to file So A YEAR OF SERVICE gevue t1x. and Mary waflts ro thank·vou Sodorn ~:.nu G•"JrT"I'Jrrah II wrll be a w1ere rt rs, G P A.? WEEKEND---CALL JOHN a11010 Carolina B·Ball game rlEI.P!Tom.28~· HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES ONE for the beverages. All your httle SIS­memorable n1gn 
ANYTIME 8004 YEAR POSTGRAD WORK. MANY ado pled ano 1eg1t· Alison. Beth. and 1'JST GOLD SEIKO WATCH LEFT IN REWARDS HELPING THOSE WHO Marytsomet•mest Dof'S 'NIA mf'an nt.Jt ap011caole'' Send LOCKER AT THE ROCK ON 1/24/83 IF MAINE BOSTON. OR PORTSMOUTH I I m1ss my pdrems. dnd they wan! 10 see NEED WU. DEADLINE FEBRUARY 8. new t:allj -N/re!lJf:"r dddfess FOUND. PLEASE CALL GARY AT NE'ED A AlOE TH~RE FOR BREAK the S Carolina ga~T~e If you can help me CALL MARY ANN ROEMER, CENTER An Oscar 0 personal? NO WAY I doubt x4388. REWARD$$$ PLEASE CALL KEiTH AT 8857 qet 2 or more tickets. call Dan at x35 78 FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. 7949. you even read these thanks 
The Observer Thursday, February 3, 1983-page 9 

• • . Win 
"I was concernedwith this game," 
State last night (90-85 in overtime)said Phelps. "They were beating Vii­
the Gamecock~ are still regardedIanova with two seconds to go with­
highly. "We must win the South out Black (sidelined with a stress 
Carolina game," says Phelps. Already fracture) when (Villanova forward 
the Gamecocks have wins over Utah, Ed) Pinckney hit the shot at the 
Purdue, and Idaho. . . . . Whilebuzzer to beat them. 
Phelps feel I8 or I9 Irish wins will "I think Ervin is typical of 
put them into the NCAAs, much (Philadelphia) Big Five coaches in 
depends on other conferences' post­
that the team is always well 
season tournaments. If weaker prepared and is ready for the big 
teams win many automatic bids 
games." (there are 28), Notre Dame's The game marked the introduc­
chances will be drastically hurt. tion ofan unusual starting lineup for the Irish. Dan Duff started at guard 
with Paxson, while freshmen Joseph Price, Jim Dolan and Kempton 
Yesterday's Results 
composed the frontline. 
Notre Dame 68, LaSalle 56 Dolan, making his first start of his LaSalle (56) career, pulled down a game-high ten 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Lew1s 37 5-10 0-3 3 3 10
rebounds. 
Butts 39 3-8 4-6 7 4 1 0 IRISH ITEMS -The Irish hit 55 P1otrowsk1 
31 4-8 6-9 7 4 14 percent from the field. Notre Dame Greenberg 27 2-7 0-6 2 0 4 entered the game third in the nation 
Jones 10 0-1 0-0 0 3 0 Philson 20 3-6 4-4 2 3 10
in field goal percentage with a .559 
Tmno 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0
mark. . . . . ECAC official James 
Gilmore 23 3-4 0-0 1 5 6 Armstong gave Phelps headaches all Kenns 10 1-2 0-0 1 2 2 night long. Later Phelps termed 
200 21-46 14-28 23 24 56 FG Pet .457. FT Pet -.500. Team
Armstrong "LaSalle's sixth 
rebounds -4. Turnovers -10. Ass1sts -7
man." .... Dan Duff; though enjoy­
(Lew1s, Philson, Gilmore 2). Teehmeals ­ing the feel of the starting lineup None. again, said "It means a lot just to Notre Dame (68) M FG-A FT-A R F P
play." . . . . Notre Dame's drive 
Dolan 27 2-7 2-3 10 4 6
toward the NCAA Tournament will 
Pnee 20 1-1 0-1 1 2 2 greatly depend on their position Kempton 31 4-4 11-14 4 3 19 among the nation's independents. Paxson 40 9-17 6-9 3 2 24 Duff 24 0-0 2-2 1 5 2
After beating Marquette, the Irish 
Varner 19 1-4 0-0 6 2 2
need wins over South Carolina, 
Barlow 17 4-6 0-0 3 4 8 Dayton and DePaul. Up until last Sluby 8 1-2 0-0 0 1 2 
week, Southwest Lousiana was the 
Andree 14 1-1 1-2 1 1 3 200 23-42 22-31 29 24 68
top independent. However, Weber 
FG Pet. .548. FT Pet. -.710. Team
State's 85-59 massacre of the Rajin' 
rebounds -4 Turnovers -15. Ass1sts -12 Cajuns Monday night could in­(Dolan 4). Technicals-None. fluence NCAA bid selectors 
Halftime -Notre Dame 33, LaSalle 22. Offi­cials-J1m Bam (B1g Ten), Ralph Rosser (B1g
later . . . . Even though South 
Ten), James Armstrong (ECAC). A-10,034.
Carolina was upended by Florida 
~~~~~........,.............~......................................, 
r 
Lowest Prices In Town! ) 
i How atIRISH CifiRDEHS: ~ ~ Flowers and Plants Cialore l 
~ Reminder• Valentine·s Day i 
'i i
i Order How to guarente~~ses i ~ SAY I • 0 WITH FLOWERS i 
~ . i 
L~..!.I!!.!:.!.O..:.~!.CL~llYJ!!~.!i.!~J'~.!--J 

Engineering Auditorium $1 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Student Union 

SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
Special Price on Soft Lenses 
$99 pair price 
Price Includes: *Daily wear soft contact lenses *Professional and fitting fees .*Free cold care solution kit *Free training in proper handling Call one of our convenient locations today for an appointment. Present this ad for the 
Special $99 price. 
Professional Vision Associates ... the professionals in eyecare. 
1635 N Ironwood 277·1161 2211 S. Michigan St. 289-7272 Bellville Shopping Ctr. 287·5949 
.... 
Freshman forward jimmy Polan looks for an opening against 7-1 LaSalle behemoth Tom Piotrowski in last night's action. Will Hare's reports begins on the back page. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
~· Norbertlne Fathers & Brothers: 
\\'coffer the opportunity for Teaching and Pa.-.toral Ministry with life in community. \\'e are men seeking God through t shared life t shared prayer t shared ministry This Is our ehalleuge: 
For rnorc tnfonnatton write to: Re\', Gene Gries, O.Praem. Vocation Director St. Norbert Abbey De Pere, Wisconsin 54115 
XtHJll' Arlrlrcss 
Citv Stutc Zip 
.\!ole Completed lllgh St·hool College 
After your lastexam, whattoughquestions will you stillbefacing? 

Wdon't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. : 
For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director 
Box 541 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 
219-239-6385 

The Observer '(hursday, February 3, 1983-page 10 


Retiring type 
Borg says he'll stick to decision 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP)-Bjorn would like to make the best of it," "I've been traveling and playing Borg says he was hoping that several Borg said. ''I'm going to go out and tennis for I I years. I've been very 
weeks of practice would make him try to play my best tennis. I have no­successful in the sport," he said. 
change his plan~ about retirement, thing to prove. I just want to win my "When I didn't play last year, I dis­
hut it was the practices that con­matches." covered there's a life outside the 
vinced him t~ get out of tennis. The only jewel Borg never tennis tour. 
The 26-year-old Swede was in claimed was a U.S. Open. Four times "I was spending a lot of time withCharlotte yesterday to play Roscoe he was runner-up. 
Mariana in Monte Carlo, just beingTanner in the tlrst of a series of ex­by ourselves and living a normalhibition matches. He told reporters "I tried my best. I'm not that disap­life." 
at a news conference that attempts pointed. There's nothing else I could to regain his top-ranking form were do," he said. "I played great tennis Borg continues his exhibition fruitless. but I could have played better." tour today in Chattanooga, Tenn.; "When I started in September, it 
Borg's immediate future includes tomorrow in Norfolk, Va.; Saturday was very difficult to come back. I a career in public relations, but he in Baton Rouge, La, and Sunday in really didn't have the motivation,'.' also plans to do things he said he's 
Providence, R.I. Borg said. 
-_... 
! 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
---~­
-----~-----·~~~-~-------~-~~---~--~­
Ihe~er===================================== 
~~4(Jl~~=========================Th=··~=r=sd=a=y=,F=e=b=ru=ary==3='=1=98=3===p=a=g=e==ll 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
..---------,
Wf.U.l FIN£/ W£'U. JJ5T lAKE' AQIJICK Ff:tK AT YeR AP ANP CI-I6CK 
FOR Sf'EU./N0. 
Fate 

WHAT'f 111>.'(/Nq VOlA IIH:t S:UtH Dltll>nc ACTION7 IS IT UNIVERSITY PI>Utl.£1' 
Pour101 RtllfoiON, 

ACROSS 29 Set 1 Strike 30 Table 5 Work on scrap 
pottery 33 Wings 10 Road sign 34 Delhi garb 14 Classic 35 502 

villain 36 Authorof 15 "Odyssey" "Has Mana author Future?" 
16 "Trail of 40 "Norma-" the Lone· 41 A Bronte some-" 42 Jab 
17 Authorof 43 Conclusion 
"The Titan" 44 Authorof 20 Possessed "TheCoun· 21 Wise-owl terfeiters" 22 English 45 Tipsy 
author 47 Staff man 23 Letter 48 Rabbit's 
abbr. tail 24 Oaf 49 Dispatch 26 Play parts boat 
The Daily Crossword 
Wednesday's Solution 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 2/3/83 All Rights Reserved 

~H 
''FW661NG" HAS TWO 
\1G'5." ' 
I 
Photius 
NOI"E Wf Jl.l> '{' Fl qU RfD Wt'O 'HIWf "enrER ~.~t.NC( 
Of STA'i If{(, 1\LI\IE IF Wt 
ST!'.VtD CL.f~R o~ FooD n-< TI-lE I'IORnt PININ~ ~<~ HALL 
fr3/ 

1'~ 

52 Gossip 53 T!nt 56 Author of 
"TheScape· goat" 60 "What-is 
new?" 61 Jazz type 62 Adano 
feature 63 Garish light 64 Navy officers 65 -fixe 
DOWN 1 Part of 
GWTW 2 Cheerful sounds 3 Likegood 
wine 4 Pasture sound 5 Ibsen 
classic 6 Radar's kin 7 Prayer 
ending 8 British letter 
9 Slip 10 Snooped 11 Mona­12 United 13 "The Way 
We-" 18 Calendar item 
19 Eats away 23 Dill,old 
style 24 Tote 25 Stead 26 Buffalo 
athlete 27 Unsullied 28 Kind of 
seal 29 Soup server 30 "-a Gre· 
cian Urn" 31 German 
poet 32 Did roofing 34 Sarcastic 37 Area 38 In the cen· 
terof 39 Blemish 45 Ends 46 Ballerina 
garb 47 Wan 48-Legree 49 Arabian 
port 50 Dingle 51 -facto 52 Names 53 Sped 54 Riverof 
Africa 55 Gardner 
of mystery 57 Recede 58 -volente 59 Baseball 
stat. 
Campus 
• 
3:30 p.m. -Open House, At the Center for So· cia! Concerns, For Faculty and Staff 

•4 
p.m.-Radiation Lab Seminar, "Hall Effect of Injected Electrons in High Mobility Liquids and the Effect of Traps," Dr. G. Ascarelli, Rad. Lab. Con· terence Theatre 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting for the Environmental Concerns Organization, K of C Hall 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Yellow Submarine,", Chautauqua Coffeehouse, Sponsored by NDSl: 


8 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. -Two Films and Discus­sion, "War Without Winners," and "The Last Epidemic," The 7:30 showings will be at 241 Madeleva Hall, SMC and the 9:30 showings will be at Hayes Healy Auditoiillm, NO, Sponsored by Two Campus Nuclear Freeze Coa!it:cn 
•8 
p.m. -Theology Dept. Panel Discu;":;:~!!, "The Faces ofjudaism Today,", Rabbi Arnold Wolf and Rabbi Yekiel Poupko, Library Auditorium 

•8:15 
p.m. -Senior Recital, Susan Laing, Trombone, Annenberg Auditorium 8 9·11 p.m. -Open Stage at the NAZZ, sponsored by the NAZZ 8 11 p.m. -Captured Live, Donnie Iris, WSND· AM64 


T.V. Tonight · 
7p.m. 16 MASH 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
7:30p.m. 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
8p.m. 16 Shogun 22 Magnum PI 28 Greatest American Hero 34 All Creatures Great and Small 
9p.m. 22 Simon and Simon 28 Too Close For Comfort 34 Mystery 
9:30p.m. 28 It Takes Two 
10p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Sneak Previews 
llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
The Far Side 

"Neanderthals, Neanderthals! Can't make fire! Can't make spear! Nyah, nyah, nyah ...!" 
-
....... 
-
l 
..J 
... l 
l 
1 
I 
I 
I 

,~ior ;:~rs. Bash at Senior Bar 
-2-Bands!! 
The Essential\ 9:30 · 11 :30pm NOBIS 11 :30 · close 

.. 
a ­
----------------w----------------~-----~~-----------•~4--·----------=----.~~----~----------·----------~ 


ByWILLHARE 
Sports Writer 
Chalk up a victory. 
Even if Digger Phelps' face changed ' color more times than humanly possible, Notre Dame added a much needed win to their 1982-83ledger. And, no sir, it wasn't easy. 
Overcoming extreme foul dif­ficulties, costly turnovers and ques­tionable officiating, the Irish downed stubborn LaSalle College, 68-56, at the ACC. The triumph moves Notre Dame to 11-7 on the season. 
The visiting Explorers, now 9-9, had not lost a game by more than eight points all season. The Irish, though leading 33-22 at intermis­sion, found it difficult to pull away through most of the second half. 
EnterJohn Paxson. 
....... 
The 6-2 senior took the garnt' into his own hands, shaking a two-year slump against LaSalle, and leading 
Paxson takes charge, again 
ND overcomes errors, beats LSC 
Notre Dame to victory in All­
America fashion. After sinking just 2 
of 11 shots in last year's contest at 
the Palestra and completing an un­
characteristic 2-of-7 first half, Pax­
son showed doubting 
Philadelphians just what he can do. 
With the Irish ahead 45-40 and 
8:30 remaining in the game, Paxson ' caught fire and scored 17 of the team's last 23 points. In all, he tallied 
a game-high 24 poirrts. 
According to Explorer coach 
Dave "Lefty" Ervin, Paxson had a 
"flawless night." 
LaSalle, playing without standout 
guard Steve Black, a slick sopho­
more who averaged 20 points per 
game last year, maintained their 
composure in the second half be­
hind f~ard Ralph Lewis and cen­
ter Tom Piotrowski. 
Piotrowski, a 7-1 senior, hauled down seven rebounds while scoring 
a tean1-higl1 14 points. 
"Piotrowski did an outstanding job for LaSalle," said Phelps after­wards. "He's one of those guys who is going to wind up playing in the NBA for five or ·six years and everyone will say 'Where is that guy from?"' 
"He (Piotrowski) was really strong around the hole," added Irish center Tim Kempton. "Piotrowski and (Albert) Butts are good physical players." 
Kempton, starting at center for the first time this season, anchored the frontline and carried the team throughout the first half. Although he played just 11 minutes in the opening session, Kempton compiled 
14 points by intermission. 
"Kempton got us in the game ear­
ly," said Phelps. "Once we es­
tablished the inside game, we can 
get Paxson in the game." 
The Irish, who had lost their last two in a couple of nailbiters on the road, took control oftht> game in the first half despite picking up 15 team 
see WIN, page 9 
In Wisconsin meet 
Fencers look to extend win skein 
By MATTJOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing squad ran its consecutive win streak to six last weekend and hopes to extend 
Minnesota annexes Big Ten lead 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP)-Roland Brooks' four points starting the second overtime gave 17th-ranked Minnesota the lead over Ohio State last night and the Gophers went on to beat the Buckeyes 89-80 to take over the Big Ten conference basket­
l 
balllead. Tommy Davis sank two free throws with no time left on the 
clock after the first overtime to pull the Gophers even at 72-72 and force a second extra five minutes ofplay. 
Minnesota, pushing its league record to 6-2 and its overall mark to .., 14-3, broke a first-place tie with In­diana. The Hoosiers, 5-2 in the con­
'I 
r ference, play Wisconsin tonight.I Minnesota was paced by 7-3 Randy Breuer's 26 points. 
The Gophers outscored the Buckeyes 1 7-8 in the second overtime to drop Ohio State's records to 4-4 and 12-6. 
Ohio State appeared to have the game won when Troy Taylor hit two free throws with four seconds left. However, Davis, who scored 20 of his 24 points after halftime, was fouled on a three-point field goal at­tempt just before the buzzer ending the first overtime. 
Davis, despite the boos of Ohio State's home crowd, calmly sank both foul shots to force the second 
overtime. 
UNC 84, Clemson 81 
CLEMSON, S.C. (AP) -Top­ranked North Carolina, keyed by center Sam Perkins, erased a three­point deficit with less than five minutes remaining to claim an 84-81 Atlantic Coast Conference victory 
over Clemson last night. 
Perkins, the game's high scorer with 30 points, led a Tar Heel rally that took them from 75-72 behind to a 79-75 lead with one minute left to play. Gemson, which had erased a ,,. 49-41 halftime deficit and led by up 
to five points in the second half, never quite recovered. 
The victory was the 15th straight win for the Tar Heels, who started the season No. I, faded early in the year, then climbed back. They are now 18-4 overall and 7-0 in the ACC. The loss dropped Clemson to 7-14 overall, 1-7 in the league. 
Forward Murray Jarman kept the Tigers in the game in the first half and finished with 19 points before fouling out late in the game. But even with his efforts, Clemson fell behind by three points before strug­gling back in the first half. 
Jarman and freshman Warren Wallace, who had 18 points, led Clemson back early in the second half, pacing the Tigers to their first lead in the game, 56-55. 
Clemson's lead reached five points, 69-64, when Wallace hit a three-ponter at the 7:39 mark. Then 
Perkins  and  Michael Jordan,  who  
had  24  points,  led  the  Tar  Heel  
comeback.  

Syracuse 89, UConn 69 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP)-An early scoring surge by Erich Santifer and Tony Bruin led 20th-ranked Syracuse to an 89-69 victory last night over Connecticut in Big East Conference basketball. 
Santifer's 18 points were high for the game. Bruin had 14. They each scored six points as the Orange assumed;;. quick I4-4lead. 
Syracuse is now 14-4 and S-3 in the conference. The Huskies dropped to 9-9 and 2-5. 
Connecticut was led by Earl Kel­ley with 14 points and Bruce Kuc­zenski with 12. 
Arkansas 70, Rice 43 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) Guard Darrell Walker led a bald.nced 
Arkansas attack with 14 points as the ninth-ranked Razorbacks defeated Rice 70-43 in a Southwest Con· ference basketball game last night. 
Center Joe Kleine had 13 points and Leroy Sutton and Alvin Robertson added 10 apiece for Arkansas. Tracy Steele led Rice with 13 points. 
Arkansas jumped to a 23-9 lead in the game's first nine minutes and pushed its lead to 38-19 at the half. The Razorbacks' biggest lead of the game was 63-30 with 6:19 kft in the game. 
With Walker and freshman Keenan DeBose leading the way with seven rebounds each, the Razorbacks took a 51-2 7 advantage in rebounding. 
Houston 88, Baylor 69 
HOUSTON (AP) -Houston's Clyde Drexler, hitting 13 of 16 shots from the field, scored 29 points to lead the eighth-ranked Cougars to an 86-69 Southwest Conference bas­ketball victory over Baylor last night. 
The Cougars ran their season record to 17-2 and moved to an 8-0 record in conference games while Baylor dropped to 10-9 and 2-8. Houston also extended its winning streak to 12 straight games. 
Drexler hit his first 1 1 shots in a 
row as the Cougars used a full-court 
press during a five-minute stretch of 
the first half to sprint to a 42-31 lead 
at halftime. 
Drexler, Michael Young and sub­stitute Benny Anders led an early second-half spurt that gave the Cougars command of the game for good. 
Houston's shot-blocking specialist Akeem Olajuwon scored eight points and rejected nine shots against the outmanned Bears. 
Anders scored a season high 1 7 points for the Cougars. 
that string to ten this Saturday when they take to the road to square oft' with Tri-State, Wisconsin-Parkside, Lawrence, and Purdue in a five-team meet at Parkside. 
The Irish, who sport an im­pressive 13-l record, posted convincing victories Saturdav en route to their tour victones at home in their first four tries. Victims of the Irish onslaught were Ohio State, Cleveland State, Case Western 
Reserve, and Illinois-Chicago. 
Most pleasant for the Irish last week was the effort of Mike Higgs­Coulthard. The Boxford, Mass. fresh­man demonstrated notched six victories without a defeat on Satur­day to raise his untarnished personal record to 10-0. 
"Higgs-Coulthard was the most pleasant surprise at the home meets," said Head Coach Mike DeCicco. "He is still undefeated and that's no fluke." 
Higgs-Coulthard attributes the success of the Irish thus far to the unity ofthe 1983 squad. 
"Some of the teams we have faced so far have been pretty tough," said Higgs-Coulthard. "But our team spirit has kept us together and even pulled out some bouts." 
Also performing impressively for the Irish were seniors Marc DeJong and Rich Daly and freshman Mike· Van der Velden. Both Dejong and Van der Veldcn posted sparkling 5-0 marks on Saturday while Daly, a 1982 all-America selection, won in three bouts. 
The Irish women's fencing team will also battle this weekend at Wis­consin, and will attempt to bounce back despite suffering a setback to Ohio State last weekend. The Irish. were without the services of honorable mention all-American Susan Valdiserri, who was out with a sprained ankle. 
The emergence of junior Kathy Morrison almost made up fDr the ab­sence ofValdiserri. Morrison, in her first action ofthe year, responded by pacing the Irish with a 3-0 mark for the day. Also shining for the women was freshman Charlotte Albertson, who boosted her personal record to 
34-8. 
The women will look to improve 
their 9-4 team record this weekend. 
As for this weekend's men's prog­
nosis weekend, the Irish head into 
the meet with a combined all-time 
record of63-2 over the competition. 
"l don't think anybody on this squad is going to take this as an easy meet, said Higgs-Coulthard, caution­ing against overconfidence. "We're just going to go out and fence as if w e we're fencing (defending nation­al champions) Wayne State." 
Hanover tourney a trip to unknown for Belles 
By DAVE IitWIN 
Sports Writer 
Still trying to recover from five 
straight losses, the Saint Mary's bas­
ketball team heads into unknown 
territory this weekend to compete 
in the Hanover Tournment. 
Two of the teams competing will be from Kentuckey and Saint Mary's coach Mike Rouse knows little about them. Hanover, however, is the No. 2 rated team in the state and is con­sidered the favorite by Rouse. 
Last year the Belle~ placed third in the Hanover Tournment. 
After five straight defeats, the Belles own a 5-9 record and must rebound in a hurry if they expect to be among the eight teams that will compete in the district tournament. 
"We definitely have to win the 
Hanover Tournment and beat 
DePauw," said Rouse. 
Saint Mary's is coming off a 72-68 defeat to host Goshen this past Tues­day. The Belles led 27-22 at halftime. The game was tied at 55 with a little over seven minutes remaining before Goshen .moved to a two-to­six point advantage the rest,of the contest. 
"They got into ~.pressing game," said Rouse of G.-jhen's 50-point ex­plosion in the· ccond half. "And they started pene .ating our defense. 
"The crowd started getting into the game. It really affected us. We didn't play with the same con­fidence." 
Sophomore Missy Van Ort didn't have any problems with confidence 
see BELLES, page 9 

