
• • • Preparation -page 10 
Commencement arrives 
At Saint Mary's 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
Saint Mary•'s Editor 

The l36th commencement exercises and the Nurses' Pinning Ceremony highlight graduation weekend events at Saint Mary's as 436 students will receive degrees and 40 nurses will be pinned. 
The Nurses' Pinning Ceremony will begin at 1 p.m. Friday, May 13 in the Church of Loretto. Each of the senior nurses will receive a nursing school pin which expre t sses the ideals ofnursing and signifies service to humanity. A reception will be held in Stapleton Lounge immediately following the ceremony. 
The Baccalaureate Mass will begin at 4 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility concelebrated by William McManus, bishop of the South Bend-Fort Wayne dicoese, and Fr. John S:atoir, director of the Christop· hers, a world-wide ecumenical organization. Catoir, who is receiving an honorary doctor of humanities degree from the College, will deliver the homily. Commencement exercises begin at 10:30 a.m. Satur· day morning in the LeMans courtyard. In the event of rain, the graduation ceremonies will be held in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Kathleen Curtis, a nursing major from Utica, Mich. will deliver the valedictory address. In addition to the commencement activities, the "The Dances of Isadora Duncan," the final perfor· See SMC, page 6 

At Notre Dame 
By DAVID SARPHIE and AMY STEPHAN SeniorStaffReporters 
Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, archbishop of Chicago, will deliver the commencement address to a record number of graduates Sunday at Notre Dame's !38th commencement exercises. Graduation ceremonies will begin at 2:30p.m. in the arena of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
A total of 2,265 persons are candidates for bac­calaureate and advanced degrees. This total includes 1,740 undergraduates, 168 graduates of the Law School, and 89 MBA recipients. The Graduate School will also present 70 Ph.D. degrees and 187 master's degrees. 
In addition to Cardinal Bernardin, seven others will receive honorary doctor of laws degrees: Helen Cal­dicott, national president of the Physicians for Social Responsibilty; Archibald Cox, professor of law at Har· vard University; John Duggan, president of Saint Mary's; andJames Frick, vice president for public rela­tions, alumni affairs and development at Notre Dame. 
Others include F. James McDo'lald, president and chiefoperating officer ofGeneral Motors; Jerome Van Gorkum, U.S. under-secretary of state for manage­ment; and Dr. John Willke, president of the National Right to Life Committee. 
See NOTRE DAME, page 5 
All that remains ofthe Old Fieldhouse is the cornerstone ofthe original 1898 structure. Its bricks sold to alumni and builders alike, the memories ofpep rallies and basketball games fade into sandy soil, soon to become a grass-covered pedestrian mall. See related story on page 6. 


ND Board of Trustees discuss alcohol, aid 
By TIM VERCELLOTTI 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The financial aid crunch, alcohol abuse at Notre Dame, social space improvements and the need for ex­panded computer facilities dominated discussion at the May 5 meeting of the Board of Trustees Student Affairs Committee. 
The results of what both Univer­sity officials and students termed a successful discussion were passed along to the full Board at its meeting the following day. 
"I think it was a very fruitful and meaningful meeting," Anthony Ear­ly, committee chairman, said. Stu­dent Body President Brian Callaghan agreed, noting that "things went really well." 
Student representatives made in­dividual presentations on under­graduate concerns. Kevin Callahan, a student employee in the Financial Aid Office, voiced student support for the Faculty Senate's recent recommendations to increase the amount of scholarship aid available to Notre Dame students. 
In March the Faculty Senate sug­gested that the University expand its scholarship base through a tuition surcharge, an alumni contribution drive and, when necessary, through a slight increase in the percentage of endowment interest returns ear­marked for scholarship use. 
Student government endorsed these proposals, and also called for "an upgrading of the computer and technological resources availalble to the Financial Aid Office," to en­hance the efficiency of office opera­tions. 

Father John Van Wolvlear, 
University vice president for student 
affairs and a member of the Student 
Affairs Committee, noted that the 
trustees were disturbed by the num­
ber of students who have had to 
leave in their sophomore and junior 
years for lack offinancial aid. 

"They (the trustees) thought it 
was preposterous," he said, and 
noted that the trustees agreed aid "is 
the number one prioirity of Univer­
sity development." 

Student Body Vice President Peg t­
gy Prevoznik presented the student 
government position on alcohol use 
at Notre Dame. 

The position, outlined in a state­.ment that was included in a packet 
of information sent to the trustees 
before the meeting, acknowledged 
that_ an alcohol problem exists at 
Notre Dame, and suggested a three­
step approach to the problem. 

Both students and the Administra­
tion must educate students about 
the effects of alcohol abuse, en­
courage a mature attitude regarding 
alcohol and find alternatives to 
"alcohol-dependent" social events, 
according to the statement. 

Student government adopted a 
"wait t and see" attitude regarding 
specific solutions to the problem, 
however, as it awaits the recom­
mendations of a University commit­
tee on alcohol use. 

"We, as students, are willing to 
work with the Administration and 
the Board on any proposals and sug­
gestions that they might have for 
See BOARD, page 6 

Group discusses Central America 
Stating that the Western Hemi­sphere today "faces challenges more serious than any since World War II, or perhaps even the Great Depres­sion," a group of North and South American leaders, including Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, has published a series of recommendations for the public in­stitutions of the two Americas. 
The group, convened by Sol M. Linowitz, former U.S. ambassador to the Organization of American States ( OAS) and Galo Plaza, former OAS secretary general, worked from Oc­tober 1982 to March 1983 under the sponsorship of the Woodrow Wil­son International Center for Scholars. Among its recommenda­tions are: 
•that 
the Reagan administration's Caribbean Basin Initiative, which would admit most Caribbean ex­ports free of tariffto assist economic development in the Basin, should be approved by Congress. 

•that 
mass migration of poor people should be slowed in the "sending" countries by governmen­tal policies which stress human needs, create jobs, and encourage family planning. 

•that 
governments which sys­tematically violate human rights should receive no financial aid. 


The group, which calls itself the Inter-American Dialogue, published its recommendations in a report en­titled "The Americas at a Cros­sroads." Among the report's 46 signers are Cyrus Vance and Ed­mund Muskie, former U.S. Secretaries of State; Robert McNamara, former president of the World Bank; Hnery Cisneros, mayor of San Antonio, Texas; Archbishop Marcos McGrath, C.S.C. ofPanama, a Notre Dame trustee; Xabier Goros­tiaga, S.J., director of the Institute of Social and Economic Research in Managua, Nicaragua; David C. Jones, retired U.S. Air Force general; and Daniel Oduber, former president of Costa Rica. 



Prof to join Academy ofSciences 
ByPATSAIN 
Senior Stab'Reporter 
Dr. George Craig, professor of biology and director of Notre Dame's Vector Biology Laboratory, has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences ( NAS ). He is the fir.st Notre Dame professor to recieve the honor. 
Craig is one of 60 new members who were elected last week for their achievements in original research. He joins more than 1,400 distin­guished scholars as a member of the private society. 
The NAS, chartered 1863 by 
Congress in 1863 to serve as an ad­
visory body to the federal govern­
ment on science and technology, is 
dedicated to the use of science for 
the general welfare. 
An internationally-known medi­
cal entomologist, Craig's primary in­
terest is in the Aedes mosquito, a 
genus having more than 80 species 
which carry yellow fever, dengue 
and other diseases. 
His studies on the Aedes aegypti mosquito demonstrated the genetic basis oftraits vital to the understand­ing of insect control and disease transmission. About 80 percent of the research on Aedes aegypti has been done by Notre Dame-affiliated scientists. 

In the late 1960's, Craig began work on the reproduction of mosquites, and discovered the first contact pheromone, "caressone." Pheromones are substances given offby insects when they are ready to reproduce. 
In 1975, Craig started to examine Aedes triseriatus, or the treehole mosquito, which is the primary cause of encephalities in the Mid-. west. 
Since studies revealed about seven percent of the Indiana popula­tion had been infected with an en­cephalitis virus at sorr.,. time (most cases go undiagn9sed), current research is aimed :1t breaking the transmission cycle. 
Craig's professional science career has been spent entirely at Notre Dame. He joined the faculty at age 27 in 1957 as an assistant profes­sor and director the Vector Biology Lab. In 1974, he was appointed to an endowed professorship, the George and Winifred Clark Chair in Biology. 

-~--------~~----,--------~ ----~-----­


J\T~}il~ ~c~=:i=~~~~~==========~=======================C=om==m=e=nc=e=m=e=n=tl=ss=u=e,=l=9=8=3==p=a=g==e2
by The Ohsen,er and The Associated Prer.r 
Notre Dame's Division of Public Relations, Alumni Affairs and Development has won ten awards in competition sponsored by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE). The division earned an award in the overall ex­cellence category. Notre Dame Magazine won a design award and three for writing. The publication has been among the top ten alumni magazines the nation for 12 years, and in the running for number one several times, an honor it received last year and in 1978. The Department of Development won two awards for its successful S10.9 million Athletic Endowment Fund campaign. Information Services also won two awards, one for newswriting and the other for a slide presentation commemorating a decade ofcoeducation, "The Notre Dame Woman Emerging." Printing and Publications also won an award in the total publications category. -The Observer 
The Early Childhood Developmentcen­ter (ECDC ), located in Havican Hall at Saint Mary's, has announced it will offer a recreational summer day camp program this summer. Children of members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community between the ages of3 and 9 are eligible for enrollment. The summer day camp is a recreational program staffed by qualified and ex­perienced teachers. The program offers for all age groups a variety of activities, including arts/crafts, nature/science activities, outdoor sports and games, dance and ballet classes, strawberry/blueberry pic_king and visits to a dairy farm, circus, airport, library, Safetyville and other places of interest in the community. Full-time and part­time schedules are available for either an 8-week or 10-week sum­mer program. Further information or registration materials can be obtained from Terri Kosik at 284-4693. -The Observer 
The Harvey G. Foster Award of Notre Dame's Alumni Association will be presented this year to Richard Rosenthal, chairman and chiefexecutive officer of the St. Joseph Bank in South Bend. The citation honors an alumnus or alumna involved as a stu­dent in athletic endeavors and who has since distinguished herselfor himself through civic activities or University achievements. An All­American basketball star at Notre Dame in the 1951-54 era, Rosen­thal is a member of the advisory council of the College of Business Administration a member ofthe South Bend President's Committee and has been dctive in University development programs. He also serves as chairman of South Bend's Century Center board of managers, as co-chairman of Project Future, and as a director of United Way and Mental Health groups in the county. He was honored by the Vatican in 1970 as Knight ofthe Holy Sepulchre. The award will be presented to Rosenthal by directors of the Alumni Association during halftime ceremonies of the Notre Dame-Navy football game on October 29. -The Observer 
Five students have beenchosenasconsuitantsto the recently formed University Curriculum Committee, chaired by Provost Timothy O'Meara, Kenna professor ofmathematics. The five are Elizabeth Ellery, Indianapolis, Arts and Letters; John Jordan, Jr., St. Louis, Engineering; Philip Manz, St. Louis, Business Administra­tion; Margaret Prevoznik, Drexel Hi!, Pa., Science andJohn). Scanlon III, El Paso, Texas, Law School. The undergraduates are all juniors, and Scanlon a second-year student in law. The 12-member commit­tee is charged with examining the overall structure of the under­graduate curriculum; the general educaton requirements; the role of philosophy and theology in the general education requirements; academic standards; academic advising and career counseling, and the quality of undergraduate intellectual life on campus. -The Ob­server 
F. Nordy Hofftnan, former sergeant-at-arms of the 
U.S. Senate and a director of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association since 1981, has been elected president of the 71,000· member association and will assume the new office July I. Both he and Michael Joyce of Pittsburgh, retiring president, will serve as ex­officio members ofthe Notre Dame Board ofTrustees. Hoffman, now a Washington consultant, was a former executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and is chairman of the board of regents of the Center for Congressional and Government Affairs at Catholic University ofAmerica. An AU-American guard with the Notre Dame football team, Hoffman was graduated in 1933. The Washington Notre Dame Club gave him its Award of the Year in 1976. -The Observer 
Norbert Anthony Engels, professor emeritus of English at the University of Notre Dame, died on April 30 in Fuller­ton, California. Born September 4, 1903 in Green Bay, Wisconsin, Engels came to Notre Dame as an undergraduate, receiving a bac­helor's degree in music in 1926 and a master's in art in 1928. He taught courses in Shakespeare and creative writing here from 1927 to his retirement in 1968. In addition to several musical composi­tions, Engels published poems, articles, and drawings in The Satur­day Evening Post, Popular Mechanics, Better Homes and Gardens, and Popular Science. He was author of the books Thou Art My Strength and Man Around the House, and co-author ofExperiences andImagination, a literature textbook for coltege freshmen. -The Observer 
A 50 percent chance of thunderstorms is predicted for today. Highs will be in the upper 70s. Warm with a 40 percent chance of thundershowers tonight. Lows will be around 60. Thun­dershowers are likely Saturday and Sunday, with highs in the mid to upper 70s. -AP 

Entering the major leagues 

Writing the final chapter of our undergraduate col­lege career is a lot like writing a single paragraph book report on War andPeace. You're not quite sure what to leave in and what to exclude or even where to begin. Such is my predicament here. For although our lives here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are not nearly as dramatic or complicated as a Tolstoy novel, reflecting on all that this experience entails within the confines of a brief newspaper column is just to the left of impos­sible. Never let it be said I ever refused a challenge. 
And meeting Challenge head on, all day, everyday, is what college is all about. Despite the claim of many cynics that college is no more than a four year reprieve from being sentenced to life in the "real world," it is so much more than this. The college experience itself is not unlike a mini-capsule of our lives. We entered this demanding and challenging world like little children boarding a spaceship, with wide-eyed wonderment and anticipation, but also with a bit of fear of the unex­pected. We came with 
Michael Monk 
Editor-in-Chief Emeritus 
Inside Friday 

from winning the prize. But it's not that much different from the game we've been playing here the past four years. Out in the "real world" the rules are the same, only the playing field is different. 
And on Sunday when you accept that diploma, realize that you won the game, you beat the odds, you met the challenge and came out on top. 
This weekend will be a bittersweet conclusion, not to mention an anticlimactic one, to our college careers. There will be the endless goodbyes, the final words, and 
the last tears will fall. And 

hopes of gaining wisdom,  then, for a while at least, a  
knowledge, and ultimately a  great void will fill our lives.  
high paying job.  Four years of a life are not  
Our childhoods were  easily forgotten or easily  
spent studying the meaning  replaced. But we can't dwell  
of life in freshman seminar  upon this emptiness for too  
or developing migraine  long. Life doesn't allow such  
headaches over the impos­ laziness.  
sibilities of calculus. As we  Sunday marks the begin·  
matured, w; read the great  ning of a new game, with  
works of Horace and Cicero,  new players and an inces­ 
learned how to build  sant barrage of unpredict·  
bridges and buildings, and  able and demanding  
perfected the art of churn­ situations. But these past  
ing out profound papers on  four years, these four  
meaningless subjects. And  glorious, painful, and educa­ 
now, as adults in the final  tional years, have prepared  
year of this college life, we  us well. We may not be  
are very ceremoniously and  seasoned veterans yet, but  
politely being kicked out,  we are definitely no longer  
just as we were starting to get the hang ofit.  in the minor leagues.  

And now the wonderment and the fear start all over .-----------------------, 

again as the spaceship dumps us on a strange and foreboding planet, one laden with threatening bogs, in­surmountable mountains, and impassable rivers (not to mention high unemployment). 
But there is no reason to fear or be intimidated by the new life that lies ahead. We have all somehow managed to overcome the many barriers and obstacles hindering our quest for that precious sheepskin called a diploma. Apart from all the parties, football games, and dances, college also represented the greatest challenge of our lives, with that diploma which seemed so unattainable for so long as the prize. On Sunday, the prize is ours, this game is won. 
The rest of our lives will be dedicated to pursuing similar games. Nobody needs to be told that life's road is mined with explosive challenges, constantly threaten-
This is the last edition of volume XVII of The Observer. We will resume publication on August 27 with our Freshman Orientation issue. Best of luck to all graduating seniors. 

ing to destroy the participants or at least prevent them L.---------------------~ 
TheDbserver (~---------------,·1 

Design Editor .............................. Tim Neely Design Assistant ......., ................ Tom Small Layout Staff. ..................... early departures Typesetters ..jim Maclennan, Bruce Oak· ley News Editor............................. Paul McGinn 
Copy Editor....................................... Pat Sain Sports Copv Editor ............... Mike Sullivan Editorials Layout..................... Tari Brown Features La_J'OUI ................ Sarah Hamilton Special Lavout .......................... Mary Healy TJ•plst ........................................... Tari Brown plAd Design .................................Bob Slota Pbotograpber ........................... Scott Bower Guest Appearances ..... Dzave and Rabbit, Monk and jennifer, l.il Tommy and Don· na. Alex and Sarph. jeb and Colleen, Margraf! and Domino·s Delivery man. Ma 
Cavanaugh and 1 dozen roses!, Ricco and 
Ma Bell. Uncle Ryan "the hit man· 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday througn Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa~nt Mary·s Col· lege. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt~ng The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 465E•6. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lndlana46556. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I ~------------~1
I The Colonial Pancake House I
I I
invites you to enjoy one ofou 
I many breakfast specialties: I 
L-~--~--~----~1
I OVENBAKEDAPPLEPANCAKES I I AND OMELETTES! I





I **·s···i···o··**FF**: 1 
I u~u I
Iourfamous applepancakes I 
I ra.ut~J~Cepeu...... I I ************************** I I U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland I \ open 6:30am 7da_vsaweek I 
~---------------~ 
-----------~----~--------~---~~~ 
The Observer Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 3 

University to renovate Cushing, Washington, LaFortune buildings 
ByPATSAIN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
LaFortune Student Center, Wash­ington Hall, and the Engineering Auditorium will be renovated during the summer according to Donald Dedrick, director of main­tenence. 
Only the renovation of the Engineering Auditorium will be complete, however. "We have eight to nine months ofwork to do in each building," Dedrick said. "We have to spread the work out over the sum­mers." 
"We cannot just shut down Wash­
ington Hall for nine to 12 months 
due to the space situation on 
campus," Dedrick noted. 
LaFortune's fist floor and the 
women's restroom in the basement 
will be redone this year. The main 
entrance and lobby will be redone 
to make them "more pleasing and 
useful," Dedrick stated. 
The entrance has already un­
dergone some work, with bushes 
and greenery planted around it to 
make it more appealing, Dedrick 
said. The lobby will be divided 
lengthwise by a walkway paved with 
bricks, with a information and ticket 
counter to the immediate left as one 
enters the building from the front. 
New furniture and interior decorat­
ing are also planned. 
Caron Court, the sunken court­
yard in the center of LaFortune will 
be made level with the rest of the 
first floor, Dedrick said. The main 
entrances to the Huddle will be 
thwugh doors in the rear of Caron. 
The former Tom Dooley room will 
be made into an extension of the 
eating area of the Huddle, similar to 
the present area between the 
Huddle serving counter and the 
Deli. 
The auditorium, on the opposite 
side of Caron will also be refur­
bished. "It will mostly be paint work 
to make the pla,ce look better," 
Dedrick said. The-main entrance to 
the auditorium will also be from the side of Caron Court. The present entrances to both the former Tom Dooley room and the auditorium will be filled in, Dedrick noted. 
The round lounge on the side of the lobby will be converted into a "formal little area, similar to a motel­type lounge," said Dedrick. "We'll put in a nice floor, and wooden doors," along with new furniture. 
The downstairs ladies room will be redone completely redone. "The situation down there has gotten a little out of hand," Dedrick com­mented. 
"We look carefully at the student 
use of the place before we make a 
major financial committment," 
Dedrick commented. "It is a ver­
satile building with many pos­
sibilites." 
Washington Hall will take two years to completely renovate, noted Dedrick. On the ground floor, the lobby and stairs will be redone, and an elevator will be added for hand­icapped people. The restrooms and costume area will also be redone. 
In the theatre area, the air system, 
the electrical system, and lighting 
will be replaced. A light dimming 
system and a sprinkler system will 
also be added. 


Senior Fellow Fr. Fitzgerald praises students 
ByPATSAIN Ministry, and the unofficial chaplain SeniorStaffReporter of Breen-Phillips Hall. Fitzgerald is leaving Notre Dame in August to 
Father John Fitzgerald was minister to the poor. elected Senior Fellow by this year's "He's the kind of guy who knows graduating class, recieving over 40 everybody's name," said senior Paul percent of the votes. "I admire the Pineda, a regular at BP Masses. "He seniors for their spontaneity, not only remembers things about vitality, and their irreverence for you, he genuinely cares about your pompous things, and 1suspect they life, and wants to get involved," admire the same things in me," Pineda stated. Fitzgerald said. "A week ago, I went through the 
Fitzgerald, known affectionately senior section of my yearbook to jot as "Fitz" to most people during his down the names of the seniors to seven years here at Notre Dame, is whom I wanted to send notes and the Assistant Director of Campus filled five pages with names," Fitzgerald said. "I realized there are a lot of people who are moving from this place at the same time I am who I regard as classmates and fellow Domers.'" 
"In some way, ministering to these young people has helped keep me young, too," Fitzgerald said. 
"The thing I will treasure about this class is their real hunger to live with integrity in a cynical world," Fitzgerald stated. "There is a deter­mination to hold onto the traditional Christian values most of the world sneers at." 
"In my attempting to affirm and encourage them in these values through my preaching, counseling, and retreat work, I found them encouraging me and reinforcing my faith. 

"!love music," Fitzgerald said. "At Breen-Phillips last Sunday, my favorite song was sung. One of the lines says 'If we only have love, we can melt all the guns and then give the new world to our daughters and sons.' This is much of what I preach as a priest." 
"He is a very personable Christian man, and a very good priest as well," said Pineda. 

Story confuses Roemer'sstatement r-~~;"i;.'~'is-ofiiy;;;;tl;l
' ' 

By MARGARET FOSMOE 
ManagingEditor 
A Fort Lauderdale newspaper 
report that claims Notre Dame has issued a new rule to suspend stu­dents who participate in bar con­tests is misleading, according to Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer. 
There has not been a rule issued 
on the matter said Roemer. 
The story, published yesterday in the Fort Lauderdale Daily News, was picked up by the Associated Press. 
The story is apparently part of a delayed reactiqn to an incident involving a Notre Dame senior in a Fort Lauderdale bar, The Button Lounge, during spring vacation. 
The incident, part of St. Patrick's 
Day celebrations, involved Morissey 
Hall senior Tim Schierl's participa­
tion in a "Wet Willie" contest. The 
Button sponsored the contest as part 
of a series of games that night be­
tween Notre Dame and four other 
schools: Marquette University and 
the Universities of Kentucky, Mis­
souri and Kansas. Schier!, alledgedly 
outfitted in Irish regalia and body 
paint, stripped on stage to win the 
contest for the Notre Dame contin­
gent. 
Roemer opted not to expel Schier! on March 29 after a meeting in the Morissey Hall Chapel with the student, six of his friends who were at the Button that night and nearly 200 other students who came to hear both sides of the issue. 
Instead, Roemer chose to accept a 
proposal submitted by Schierl's 
friends. The proposal included a for­
mal apology by Schier!, a S250 fine and 25 hours ofcommunity work. 
Roemer has exchanged cor­respondence with Fort Lauderdale officials, who have promised to more erosely monitor student be­
havior in Fort Lauderdale during future breaks. InaletterfromFioridaStateAttor­ney Michael J. Satz to Roemer, the 
attorneywrote, "I certainly have not 
been aware of the fact that such ac­tivities had become a 'tradition.' ... You may be assured that the Broward (County) State Attorney's Office will do everything in its power to eliminate any occasion of this type of conduct in any public place." 
Aoemer has received similar as­
.urances from the Fort Lauderdale 
chiefofpolice. 
He also wrote to the other univer­
sities involved. "There has been no 
response from the three public 
schools. I had a a very nice reply 
from Vice President of Student At­
fairs Jim Scott at Marquette," said 
Roemer. 
Apparently, Florida newspapers have just recently received word of the controversy the incident caused here. 
There were reports that Schier! has received phone calls from Florida journalists who have learned of the correspondence between Roemer and Florida officials. Schier! was unavailable for comment. 
Roemer said he talked to the reporter from the Fort Lauderdale Dai~y News who appeared to "slant some of the questions." 
''I'm not angry at Fort 
Lauderdale," Roemer stressed. "The 
newspapers seem to be trying to do 
New chairs, identical to the ones in the Annenberg Auditorium, will take the place of the present seats. "The auditorium is used as a class­room, and the students are using lap­boards to take notes, which is bad," Dedrick said. "The new seats will have note boards." 
The new chairs will be staggered to allow for an unobstructed view of the stage from all seats. The steps in the balcony will be reconstructed, and more chairs added. 
Dedrick said work should be done 
by the first of September, barring 
any complications. 

The Engineering Auditorium will have new seats for movies and classes next fall. Again, the seats will be identical to the ones in the An­nenberg Auditorium, with noteboards. 
T t he lighting and the carpeting will be replaced, and the audiovisual booth in the rear of the auditorium will be revamped. The stage will also be elevated, along With the movie screen, to compensate for the level floor of the auditorium, Dedrick noted. A raised slanted floor would decrease the number of seats, and cost too much money, he said. 
Construction continues on the Saint Mary's College Center, for­merly the College Library. The College Center, complete with a new bookstore and snack bar, is scheduled to be dedicated in thefall. 
( H . t Sh 
a little expose on the local bars. I I . '--' . al rcu , amp?~, I don't hold the community respon-I BlOW Dry & ConditiOn 
sible." I ' I 
Roemer said he has been receiv-Reg. $15 ing phone calls from journalists I 54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. NOW $8.50 WITH COUPON I across the country regarding the Across from Martin's 0~ St. R~.23 report; however, "there has been no I Tues, Wed,S~t 8.3~ · 5.30 H • t I $6 wtrH 1
30 830

change in the situation since the I Thur, Fn 8· · · alrcu on y COUPON. decision was made," Roemer said. 272-0312 277•1691 S60if~rappliestoMALEpatronsonly.
• -Haor must be washed day of cut. 

NEW SCHEDULE IN EFFECT 
Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! 
Travel United Limo to b from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE  LEAVE  
NOTRE  MICHIANA  
OAME  REGIONAL  
BUS  AIRPORT  ARRIVE  
SHELTER  SOUTH BEMD  O'HARE  
3:15a.m. 5:15a.m. 7:15a.m. 9:15a.m. 11:15 a.m. 1:15 p.m. 3:15p.m. 5:15p.m.  3:45a.m. 5:45a.m. 7:45a.m. 9:45a.m. 11:4,5 a.m. 1:4!j,p.m. 3:45 ~.m. 5:45p.m.  6:00a.m. 8:00a.m. 10:00 a.m. 12:00 p.m. 2:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 8:00p.m.  

ARRIVE ARRIVE MICHIANA NOTRE REGIONAL DAME 
LEAVE AIRPORT BUS O'HARE SOUTH BEND SHELTER 
8:30a.m. 10:45 a.m. 11:00 a.m. 10:30 a.m. 12:45 p.m. 1:00p.m. 12:30 p.m. 2:45p.m. 3:00p.m. 2:30p.m. 4:45p.m. 5:00p.m. 4:30p.m. 6:•5 p.m. 7:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 8:45p.m. 9:00p.m. 8:30p.m. 10:45 p.m. 11:00 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 1:15 a.m. 1:30 a.m. 
All ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME. EFFECTIVE APRIL 24. 1983. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 

(219) 674-6993 
OR CALL YOUR ~ TRAVEL AGENT 

----~ -----------------~---­
-

The Observer Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 4 

lill CONGRATULATIONS I TO THE NOTRE DAME CLASS OF '83 

1 BE SURE TO FOLLOW THE FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL TEAM THIS FALt-WITH 
.1111: 

A SUBSCRIPTION TO GO IRISH! WHILE YOUR AT IT KEEP IN MIND THAT A ONE YEAR SUBSCRIPTION TO GO IRISH! MAKES A GREAT FATHER'S DAY GIFT IF YOUR DAD HAPPENS TO BE AN ABOVE AVERAGE NOTRE DAME FAN. 
Follow the Fighting Irish All Year Round 
t 
"You publish a top-flight paper. As a member of Notre 
l

Dame's extended family. /look ...........--.... 
forward to reading each issue." 
Bob Kuechenberg l Former Notre Dame ) "For accurate. '10-tu-date All American & All-Pro mformation. I enjoy following Miami Dolphins player Coach Gerry Faust of the
/ 

Fighting Irish m the GO IRISHl" Dan Devine Former Notre Dame · head football coach 
Collector and Fan 

•The first issue in a series of 
reprints of old and rare Notre Dame Football Programs. 
The Notre Dame Football Program Reprint Collection-Volume 1 Notre Dame vs. South Dakota at Cartier Field
The Newsmagazine devoted exclusively to 
October 18, 1913
coverage of Notre Dame Fighting Irish football. 
'\ •Only one original program for 
-( this game is known to exi_st.This year, experience all of the color and 
Authentically Reproduced
excitement that is Notre Dame football, beginning \
-

i in exact detaiL
with our late-summer pre-season issue. Subscribe to 
.·: :-· GO IRISH! and receive 28 pages of photo-illustrated game '\_ This program features cap-stories ... scouting reports ... game analyses and statistics --tain Knute Rockne; Coach ... inside interviews with coaches and players ... recruiting Jesse Harper; line-up and updates ... profiles of ND All-Americans and Irish in the pros ... ----_ _ photos of both teams; com-classic games and people from the past ... and much, much more! -mentary on both schools; 
~ 

--• 1 a special article on Notre
A one-year subscription brings you 11 weekly issues during the ame great Louis "Red"
season plus 9 monthly issues in the off-season ... all for just $2'1.95 (a 45% savings over the $40 20-issue newsstand price). --Salmon,1900:1903plus many more mterest1ng
Make your check or money order payable to GO IRISH!, -features about the 1913
Box 477, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Call toll free today and we'll be \ undefeated Fighting
glad to take your order via Mastercard/Visa right over the phone: . ::-Irish. This beautiful collectors item normally sells for

1-'ilif~ CALL 800-428-4770;

$19.95 but it's 
IN INDIANA CALL (219) 277-5448 yours FREE with 
. -:: 
. ::-· <·-~ ._.. a subscription to 
,··:: 
GO IRISH!, Box 477, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {;~ "GO IRISHI" 
:. ;.: 



-------------------------------r-1 )______ -------------I
1 ENCLOSED $21.95 PLEASE START MY SUBSCRIPTION TO I ENCLOSED $21.95 FOR A GIFT SUBSCRIPTION TO "GO IRISH!". (20 issues) "GO IRISH!" IN MY NAME FOR A rRIEND. (20 ISsues) I 
Name Friend's Name ~ 
Address • 
~­

Address I 
..·: 
I

CityCity ·---I State Z1p I State ZiP--~-I 
Your Name. I Credit Card No. Expiration Date I
Credit Card No._ Expiration Date 
I 

-Signature I 
---------------------~~---~---L--------~--------------------~ 
GO IRISH! UNCONDITIONAL MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE: You may cancel your subscription anytime prior to receiving four issues. and GO IRISH! will promptly refund your money ;n full. The first four issues wiU be yours to keep. After four issues, we will give you a pro-rated refund if you are not totally satisfied. 
GO IRISH' is an 1ndependent sports publication and 1s not affi11ated w1th or sponsored by the Un1versity of Notre Dame. 






·rhe Observer Commencement Issue, 1983-page 5 

Thomas, Curtis to give valedictory talks to commencement gatherings 
ByAMY STEPHAN, MARGARET FOSMOE, and CINDY BOYLE 
StaffReporters 
Anthony Thomas of Richmond, Va., and Kathleen Curtis of Utica, Mich., are the valedictorians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, respectively. 
Thomas, an accounting major, plans to spend next year as an intern with the Financial Accounting Stan­dards Board ( FASB ), which es­tablishes standard accounting principles in the United States. 
A resident of Zahm Hall for four years, Thomas had maintained a .3.98' grade point average as of last semester. He played the trumpet in the band for four years and was its president this year. 
"I've had a really good Notre Dame experience, and looking back, there is nowhere else that I'd want to go," Thomas said. He noted that Notre Dame students are "serious about academics and serious about having fun." 
Thomas said his friends, both in his hall and in the band, have been the best thing about his four years at Notre Dame. He said he was "very fortunate and very honored" to be valedictorian, but added, "if I had had to give up a lot of my ex­periences, it wouldn't have been worth it." 
Thomas credits his academic success to organization. He said he took his work seriously and "wasfor­tunate to be able to get his work done in a shorter amount of time" than other students. 
"I have a great deal of respect for all of the professors I've had here," said Thomas, adding he has received "as good an education here in accounting as anywhere else." 
"I did not realize how good the business school's reputation is until I started interviewing," said Thomas. Notre Dame has a very good reputa­tion with "the Big Eight" accounting firms, he said. 
Thomas said he is considering several job offers in Washington, D.C., after he completes his tenure with the FASB, He would eventually like to become involved in non­profit administration, he added. 
Curtis, a nursing major, will work in the step-down intensive care unit at Beaumont Hospital iri Royal Oak, Mich. The step-down unit is a progressive care facility designed for patients leaving intensive care. 
Curtis has a cumulative grade point average of 3.94. 
louring her college career, Curtis has participated in the Junior Class Board, the Senior Class Board, Chapel Choir, Nursing Club and the Big Sisters/Little Sisters program. 
Curtis says the Saint Mary's nurs­ing program gave her "a good educa­tion but (the major) is very demanding. I put a lot into it and got a lot out ofit." 
Curtis is pleased with the educa­tion she received at Saint Mary's. If she had to choose colleges again, she said she would "most definitely" pick Saint Mary's. 
"It has given me a basic broad education in addition to my major. I have a broad background in areas like English and history. Most impor­tantly, I feel I can draw on my knowledge in terms of decision­making skills," she said. 
Curtis said Saint Mary's "has a lot to offer, depending on what you put into it, both in terms of curricular and cocurricular activities." 
• • • Notre Dame 
continuedfrom page 1 
New York City architectJohn Bur­gee will receive an honorary doctor ofengineering degree and Pieter De Somer, rector of the Catholic Uni­versity of Leuven, Belgium will be honored with a doctor ofscience de­gree. 
The University's highest honor, the Laetare Medal, will be presented to Edmund Stephan and his wife, Evelyn. Stephan is a prominent Chicago attorney and chairman emeritus of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. The medal has been presented for 100 years to a distin­guished AmeriCan Catholic. 
The top three graduates from each of the four colleges will be honored as flag bearers at Sunday's ceremonies. Representing the Col­lege of Business Administration will be Thomas, Louis Tocco of Detroit, Mich., and Daniel Hackett of Springfield, Ohio. 
The three flag bearers from the College of Arts and Letters will be Patrick Ireland of Freemont, Mich., 
Timothy Goodman of Wauwatosa, Wise., and Thomas Cain of Winston' Salem, N.C. 
Honored as flag bearers from the College of Engineering are John Gregory Barlock of Pittsburgh, Pa., Vincent Shiely of Wauwatosa, Wise., andJohn Revord ofGlen View, Ill. 
Representing the College of Science are Gregory Barth of Granite, Ill., Chris Farrell of Cincin­nati, Ohio, and Paul Comber ofPitts­burgh, Pa. 

Anthony Thomas, left, and Kathleen Curtis are the valedic­torians ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's respective~v-Thomas, an accounting major, is a native ofRichmond, Va. Kathleen Curtis, enrolled in the nursing school, is a resident of Utica, Mich. See related story• at left. 



For Sale 1210 Garland 
ta block from Linebacker -a fteld from A. C. C.) Open Sat. May 14 -10:00 A.M. to 3:00P.M. 
Thts 3 bedroom ranch carrtes a 9'·z "'• FHA mortgage. Easy assumptton gtves a monthly payment near $220. Century 21 
Carmien Realty 
1-219-848-4477 
................~oupon1..............._ 
Students and Staff 
of St. mary's and Notre Dame 
additional off
SlOO 

On your best deal on any new Toyota. 
Just present coupon and J.D. to 
michael Fahey at 


over 100staff, alum, & students sold Call237-4052 one pe-r customer .................coupon................ 

A MARTIN ERIJCHMAN ~ IHCHAID GER£ VALERIE ICAF'RISICY 1n "'llfAAItWS" 

~toonDe510'lQ'4Dvi?ICHARDSVlBERT ·Doftlc'D!~~RICKAAOH KLINE:.AS.C ·E.oorcw....~I<EITHADOIS · ~ov LM KITCARSON&.WMcfiRVE 
Plooucll!a::wt..1ART1NERI.JCHMAN ·~tedov.IMMcBRtDE • ~olmf'<I..,PANAVISION• PMISO...DELUXE., ...,OIISOifi'IC!U'Ifs-,"D 1 -• I 1...oo ... 01 ........ <---....-·-...--... _...._ .....-.. ._••••-....-.~.......... _..._. ;oDd -.:.:~;-:=.;c::::­
OPENS FRIDAY, MAY 13 AlA THEATRE NEAR YOU. 
You won't have to take up a collection to afford our lavish Sunday Family Buffet Brunch 
All you Family
r--~!J.; 
Buffet

1~;:~~-";~~'t-( ~~~-~ 
$6.95 (Children

to \ ~;~\ '~--~' --: 
underl2

3:30p.m. ~ _>"'Jj 
-$3.95)


. -. v--"'~ 
~~'.f 
~~~ ~ 
Every week, we dish out the tastiest Sunday service in town. Roast Beef, Ham Rolls, Lasagna, and Fish. Fried Potatoes, Egg. 
Dishes, Gravy, and Assorted Pastries. Salads and Fruit. Plus a whole buffet full of other family favorites. All for the heavenly lov. :Jrice of $6.95. So come pass the plate with us next Sunday. You cc.n take all you want: Without giving 'till it huts. 
52885 US 31 North 

The Observer Commencement Issue, 1983-page 6 
Mall to replace former fieldhouse 

ByPATSAIN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
"Knock, knock." 
"Who's there?" 

"Not the fieldhouse!" 
No longer will Notre Dame stu­dents have to wander in the desert on the way to class -th1e sand dunes that replaced the Old Fieldhouse when it was torn down last month are going to be turned into a pedestrian mall, says Don Dedrick, director of maintenanct:. 
Sidewalks will be placed down each side of the mall, leading to the library. Dedrick said the secondary sidewalks would probably not be put in place until the fall, when the student traffic flow can be seen. 
"I wait to see where 1the students walk," Dedrick stated. "When the paths get worn in we put a sidewalk 
Ifyou're going to Europe this summer, don't see it from a train. See it from behind the wheel ofa Hertz car. It's less expensive than a European rail pass. And it costs even less when you share the ride with a friend. Plus with a Hertz car, there's never a charge for mileage. 
By renting from Hertz, you can reserve your car just 7 days before renting, you don't have to pay in advance, and in many cases there's no drop off.charge. And unlike some rent -a-car companies, Hertz's minimum renting age is 18 years old. What's more, our prices are guaranteed in local currency through March 31, 1984. So no matter how much 
there. I have been very successful with this philosophy." 
Tearing down the Old Fieldhouse "is the removal of a large barrier," Dedrick stated, "and we are not sure where the students will go." 
The road next to Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh will be torn up, Dedrick said. The road next to Nieuwland Science Hall will not be torn up, however, because it leads to the loading docks in back of Nieuwland and LaFortune. Dedrick said he hopes traffic does not spill over onto the road. "If it does, we may have to plant bushes to dis­courage walking there," he said. 
A bank has been built. next to Nieuwland to conceal the back of the science hall. The grass-covered bank also discourages people from using the delivery ·road leading to LaFortune, Dedrick noted. 

GOLDEN DOME ATRIUM BRUNCH 
Sunday, May 15~, 10:00 a.m. -2:30p.m. 
Celebrate your special day in a special way! Our elegant brunch includes juices, assorted fresh fruits, salads, cheeses, bagels, made to order waftles and omelettes, seafood, assorted hot entrees, vegetables and Marriott's mouthwatering desserts. A.f1ter 12:30 p.m., enjoy our bottomless glass of champagne at no extra charge! S9. 9 5 for adults; S4. 95 for children under 12. Reserva­tions are recommended at (2:19) 234-2000, Ext. 7140. 
~iliiott lfotet. 
123 N. St. joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000, Ext. 7140. 
When Marriott does a Golden Dome Brunch ­we do it right! 
Nowtheonlyreasontotake a traininEuropeisifyoucan'tdrive. 
the dollar fluctuates, our rates won't. 
Hertz also saves you money when you're off the road. We offer discounts at over 1,500 hotels in Europe, including Holiday Inns. Rooms start as low as $28 per person, double occupancy ($17 in Britain), including breakfast, service and tax. · ® 
For full details, call your travel agent. Or call Hertz at 1-800-654-3001. Ifyou think going by train is cheaper, you'll be pleased to discover 
you're way off TilE"'1 WAY TO RENT A CAR. 
track. tier!"I rm1s Ford~ and olhcrftneear!-. 


Hertz al>o.ha~ i<>W 

A monument made out of ap­proximately 500 of the old fieldhouse bricks will be con­structed around the cornerstone, with a plaque commemorating the athletic facility-turned art building. 
At the end of the mall near tl:t.e Huddle, a brick walkway, sur­rounded by trees, will be available for people who want to eat outside. 
"We have a beautiful campus," Dedrick stated. "If the students would follow the walks laid down for them, it would maintain this beauty, and make the work of the groundspeople more satisfying." 
• • • Board 
continuedfrom page 1 
us," the statement concluded. 
Prior to the meeting, committee members toured LaFortune Student Center to get a firsthand look at stu­dent social space. Committee Chair­man Early later acknowledged that "there is a need for rehabilitation and revitalization," but noted that "I think the University already knows this." 
Members of the student govern­ment did not call for more renova­tions ofexisting social space; instead they thanked the trustees for recent improvements in dorms and class­room buildings, and for renovations scheduled to be made this summer. 
Student government members told the committee that improve­ments in Notre Dame's computer facilities are needed, and included recommendations in an overall response to the University's P T riorities and Commitments to Ex­cellence (PACE) Report. 
Early noted that all student sug­gestions were passed along to the full Board, but that no action would be taken on the proposals. 
".That's between the Administra­tion and the students," he said. 
While the committee discussed financial aid, alcohol abuse, social space and computer facilities, the recent "co-residential proposal" did not receive attention. 
"They (the students) were smart .not to bring that up," Van Wolvlear said, noting that "As long as Father Hesburgh is here, we won't have co­ed dorms." 
• • .SMC 

continuedfrom page 1 
mance of the 1983 Notre Dame­Saint Mary's dance theatre will be Friday at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. A party for graduates, parents and guests will be at the Century Center, in downtown South Bend, beginning at 9 p.m. 
Marian Wright Edelman, presi­dent ofthe Children's Defense Fund, will deliver the commencement address and receive an honorary law degree during the ceremony. 
Board of Regents vice chairman Jerry Hammes will receive the Presi­dent's Medal. 
Brunch will be served for graduates and their families in the dining hall after the commence­ment. 
Mr. C. T. Parmerlee Private Detective 
Parmerlee Detective Agency 

530 1/2 Carroll St., Apt. B South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 288-6621 


Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 7 
The Top Ten News Stories of 1982-83 
... Election results-page 5 

Campus Debates Nuke Issue 
The nuclear freeze question was one of the 
~77percem

most hotly debated issues on campus this year. A Students pass bilateral freeze referendum recommending a unilaterial United States freeze on nuclear weapons was rejected by 
~~;~~llll

the Notre Dame student body. Saint Mary's, however, became the first Catholic college and the first women's college in the country to pass such a recomme-ndation. Later in the semester, Notre Dame students passed a bilateral freeze referendum. 



The Qbserypr 
• '-ti ~ .;, •;, 
'I ' -t· 
--~ ~ ~., 
---~ 
-
. 

PACE Report Finally Released 
The PACE (Priorities and Commitments for Ex­cellence) Report was released in December after more than two years of effort. The report con­sidered teaching and research, the faculty, the stu­dent body, and support functions within theUniver Report of the early 1970s, was the culmination of an attempt by Provost Timothy O'Meara and his Advisory Committee to analyze and assess the major problems confronting the University in the next ten years. 
. • .VCR'!r--J' 

Go Irish Allowed to Continue 
The University's request for an injunction to prohibit Go Irish from printing under its current name was denied by a county circuit court. Go Irish is an independent publication reporting Notre Dame football. Notre Dame sought the in­junction as part of a counter-suit in hopes of obtaining exclusive rights to the word "Irish" when used in reference to Notre Dame football. A spokesman for Go Irish said the magazine would continue to publish while awaiting the outcome of the original suit. 
.. Amendmems-page 3 

Students Lack Shots 

proper Immunizations 
Measle epidemics at several Indiana univer­sities raised. concern about a lack of student im­munizations at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Public health officials discovered that 66 percent of the American students and 88 percent of the foreign students at Notre Dame lacked proper im­munizations. An emergency immunization program was conducted in anticipation ofa major epidemic among college students during spring break. The epidemic never occurred and officials later questioned the necessity of the immuniza­tions. 
'Ibe Observer 

A.-,saults Cause Security Fears 
Security fears rose at Saint Mary's after the campus was plagued with a series of attempted assaults first semester. The suspect, who reported­ly drove a green Dodge Charger, was never ap­prehended. The incidents caused renewed concern about the state ofsecurity at the College. College officials held dorm meetings with stu­dents and security measures were increased. 


Edifice Complex 
Building construction and renovation played a major role on campus this year, beginning with the dedication of Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Library in September. In October, Notre Dame's Stepan Chemistry Building was dedicated. Notre Dame saw the distruction of the Old Fieldhouse, former home of the Art Department, which was moved to the newly renovated Old Chemistry Building. The former WNDU Building became the Center for Social Concerns. Work on the Saint Mary's College Center (the former College Library) and Notre Dame's new Faculty Office Building continues. 

Housing Lottery Averted Again 
Housing shortages for next year's Notre Dame freshmen reached a critical level again this year and the University again threated students will a housing lottery. One week before the scheduled housing lottery, Director of Student Residences Father Michael Heppen announced the lottery would be averted by using the study lounges in selected dorms to house freshmen next year. 
~··Plane crash kills fourteen 1 .\. 
--··· 
. ---4 ·-· ·­

SMC Approves Parietals Change 
The Saint Mary's administration approved the ~an:::~:~:T ~~~t~ ;. · parietals proposal that had been debated for several years. For the tlrst time, College parietals ~s:~~;t~;~ ~li-~I]~~ were extended to include weekday evenings ~~~~~~-~ :~~~~;~ ~~~~~~~ hours. The new parietals were first tried on an ex­perimental basis, declared a success and made of­,:-..:.~:~ ~:~1;~ ~k~~ tt~~ti~ ficial College policy. 
~~--:~:-~:~e ~~~E:~ if~~¥~ 
tA~ii~i 
~=:~_57~:¥=~~~ =~~~~~~~ ~~~g :::~·~;: 
Hit-and-runs Plague Students 
A series of hit-and-run accidents two weekends in a row last fall left several Notre Dame students in serious condition. Students Kathleen Garvey and William Rungaitis were injuried in two separate accidents on September 20. The next weekend students Kerin Mannion and Elizabeth Mcinerny were struck down on South Bend Avenue. That crime remained unsolved following an extensive search and the offer of a reward by the students' parents. 

Dlsarmamnll runalaa out of time: Hesburth 
Hesburgh Denounces Nukes 
Scientists and religious leaders from around the world, including Notre Dame's Father Hesburgh, published a statement in October, 1982, condemning the the use ofnuclear arms. The Dec­laration on Prevention ofNuclear War, prepared by an "Assembly of Scientific Academies," stated "Nuclear warfare would be a crime against humanity." Hesburgh, while opposing a unilateral freeze by the U. S., believed a mutually verifiable bilateral disarmament between the U.S. and the Soviet Union was the top priority for the two governments. 
----~--~--­

-------------. ----·-·--------­
The Observer Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 8 



KINGS CELLAR 
GOOD LUCK 
1621 South Bend Ave. 
NOTRE DAME 
South Bend, iN 
GRADUATES 

Graduation Specials 
Introducing 
"'~w, 

King Cellar !Premium Beer 
549case 

NEW! NEW! 
Old Milwaukee ..... 5.99 
case 

Hamm's ....... 5.99 
case 

KEGS 
J. Roget Campagne............. 2.49 Andre Champagne ............. 2.69 Remy Panier Sparkling .......... 4.99 Hen kell Extra Dry............... 7.99 Cinzano Asti................... 6.99 
Yes, we have Dom Perignon 
Budweiser ........ 31.99 Michelob.......... 36.99 MiIIe r . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 . 99 Lite .............. 29.99 Old Milwaukee ..... 28.99 

~S"OWCA~S~E~~Com~mence~memls~me,l9~83~p~9 
The road to ruin 
T
he car wasn't much to look at. It was a grey, rusting '68 Olds, the kind ofcar you usually see sitting like a decrepid old man along the Cross Bronx Expressway. And 0:1 that cold, blowing October day, six ofus piled into the old man praying he wouldn't die on us before wheezing his way across the 700 interminable miles to Notre Dame. 
Before the journey even started I knew from looking at my five partners in travel that God was finally getting me back for blasting the bishops in an earlier editorial. There were Chloe and Lips, roommates in Carroll Hall and comrades in lunacy. jack was a loner, completely friendless, and I soon discovered why. He was an in­credibly cheap, money-grubbing miser who wouldn't hesitate to sell his mother for the time ofday. 
Michael Monk 
features 
There was Mark, who has been perfectly normal since his frontal lobotomy, and jack, a self-professed drug addict since the age oftwo who insisted on travel­ing in the trunk ofthe car in order to take in the maxi­mum level ofexhaust. 
And then there was Bertha. She was a pretty girl but possessed an unusually large.and unwieldy posterior. She stood just over five feet but was even taller when she sat down. Her weight was ofsuch unknown mag­nitude she could sit only in the middle section of the back seat for fear of tipping over the car. 
I strapped her into the car to prevent herweight from shifting. The other five looney tunes followed. 
We left the warm, glowing countryside ofNewjersey and headed west on Route 80. Through all ofPennsylva­nia and much ofOhio, everything went as smoothly as could be expected with five mutants and their ringmas­ter ofa driver. 
Then all hell broke loose. 
While quietly napping in the back seat, Bertha shifted her weight suddenly, breaking the restraining straps. Al­most immediately the right rear tire blew and the old man jerked into an uncontrollable spin. Bertha shifted to her left and the car went left. She then overcom­pensated to the right, the old car following again. Chloe andjack, who were both gettingflattened each time she moved, heroically managed to strap·her down again and I brought the car to a halt on the roadside. 
It was only as we unpacked the trunk in search ofthe spare tire that we discovered that jack was missing. I 
remembered hearing a loud thud behind the car cruis­
ing past the Sharon, Pa. exit but I hadn't given it a 
second thought. Damn guy didn't pay his gas money 
either. 

The next discovery was a set ofsix longcylinders that looked like road flares. Mark and Lips took them up in their hands and walked about 20 yards down the road. Mark lit one ofthe strange fuses and the flare, to the great surprise and wonderment ofall, started to sputter multi-colored sparks. Then it took off like a rocket, catching Lips full in the mouth and carrying him high in­to the star-filled sky. 
It wasn't a flare Mark lit. It was a Roman candle left 
over from three Fourths ofJuly ago. 

Those ofus still earthbound watched the spectacle in 
amazement as Lips soared higher and higher into that 
clear night sky before exploding into a shower of 
beautiful colors. 

By this time, four or five cars had pulled to the roadside to enjoy the show, and the entire group broke into loud and long applause at Lips' spontaneous yet en­tertaining act. Eager to please the cheering travelers, Mark continued the show sending the other rockets, all unmanned, skyward. Meanwhile, jack slithered from car to car, collecting money from the appreciative audience. 
With the show over and the fans gone I began the chore ofchanging the tire as Chloe and Lips threw a football on the roadside to pass the time. Lips ran a deep post pattern and made a beautiful diving catch near the overpass but was immediately tackled by a Mack truck cruising along at a swift 70 mph. Lips dropped the ball on impact (he always did have stone hands) and the last we saw of Lips he was draped around the radiator gesturing wildly at the driver. I waved good-bye to him and once again turned my attention to the tire. That Lips always did have a flare for the dramatic. 
Finally, with a new tire in place and Bertha adequate­ly restrained, we continued our travels. About 10 miles up the road a large object was sprawled across the right lane and appeared to be making slight movements. I tried to swerve to avoid the object, but was too late. It was only as the wheels passed over the mystery object that we recognized it to be Lips, apparently catching some Z's on the freeway. I caught a glimpse of him through the rear view mirror. It wasn't a prettty sight. 
Upon finally reaching the Golden Dome, 1 im­mediately plopped into bed and was lost in a deep sleep. By morning, I had forgotten all that had happened the previous day. 
'All my life's a circle ... ' 

H
arry Chapin once wrote and sang a song which began, "All my life's a circle ..."A couple of weeks ago I began to think about my first couple ofweeks as a freshman at Notre Dame, and then about the last several weeks ofthis semester. I dis­covered several common events (of sorts) which give Chapin's words some personal meaning. 
Tim Neely 
features 

I can still recall the first section party 1went to on the first floor of Cavanaugh in September of 1978 and how reluctant I was to drink beer -1think I'd had it all of three times in my life before that night, and I really wasn't impressed. I didn't drink anything stronger than Coca-Cola that night, but I still recall what kind ofbeer was served at that party. The last party I attended here, late last month, was an Observer­-sponsored bash. I no longer am afraid of the yellow stuff, and oc­casionally I drink too much ofit, but the brand of beer was the same. 
Silly little trivia like that popped into my head as I thought ofboth how far I'd come in five years at Notre Dame and how little ground I'd traversed since freshman year. Like, at both my first and last off­campus parties, boxing was on the tube when I arrived. Quite different circumstances there, too -the first was the Ali-Spinks rematch and the other was some insignificant bout on ESPN. Actually, it was only a com­mercial-for some insignificant bout on ESPN. The coincidence was there, nonetheless. 
Maybe the most fascinating to me is how I'd come full circle in my af­fairs ofthe heart. While an awful lot has changed since 1978 in my at­titudes and behavior towards women, I cannot help but think that someone is playing games with my mind. The circle has come 360 degrees since the first girl I was real­ly hooked on at NO. 
I have learned a lot from ex­perience since that one went down the tubes for good that December (though I was too blinded by her image to know until nearly two years later). Yet how does one ex­plain that the one I currently get along with best and probably would have gone out with had this not started happening the week before finals (isn't it the way these things occur, though) has the same first name as that person ofthe past? Stranger yet, ifI swing the circle even farther back to my first-ever high school crush, I find that both my current friend and that first in­fatuation have the same initials. 
I can't deny that much has changed in the years since those ear­ly attempts at friendship with two girls whose most redeeming features -to me, anyway -were a nice-looking face and/or body. But the name and initials have returned -I'm not sure it's the first time for either, but I do know it's the first time both "first-times" have 
recurred in the same woman. 
And ofcourse, how can I forget that as I leave here Notre Dame's football team is ranked atop at least one publication's preseason poll? When I first came here, the Fighting Irish were the real national cham­pions, as they had drubbed Texas 38-10 on New Year's Day of 1978. Number One at the beginning and at the end. Hmmmm. 
I don't think this has any real sig­nificance other than as fun coin­cidence to keep my life interesting. Yet the timing ofthis stuffis unusual. The first month offreshman year can be a time ofgreat fear -the first time away from home without parental guidance. The last month of senior year also provides some of the trepidation associated with the neophyte collegian's first weeks. The freshman's first experiences usually revolve around class picnics held by each hall. The seniors' last bash before the formalities is (what else?) a class picnic. Now we're back where we started again: a class Mass in the ACC, a get-together with the entire class (better known as Com­mencement), with proud parents beaming in the background, just like the Saturday night convocation as freshmen when Emil talks about that first year. This time Ted talks about the next big step. The names, faces, and circumstances are different, but the events are the same. 
Harry Chapin once wrote and sang a song which began, "All my life's a circle ..." 
Poetic license 
H
e was a Senior, about to leave Notre Dame, who had no one to say good-bye to. He had never met me, he said. I had no way of knowiing him, because he kept out ofsight. He felt his classmates and teachers were strangers who wouldn't even remember him. He wanted to say good-bye to somebody. The only ones he could think ofwere my dog, Darby O'Gill, and me. The Senior didn't want to talk about himself, and I didn't get the impression he was interested in hearing about me. He asked how the dog liked the campus after the students have left. On his last day at Notre Dame, I entertained that lonely Senior with Darby O'Gill stories, because Darby O'Gill seemed to be the memory he wanted to take home with him. 
The week after graduation, Darby O'Gill looks around the campus, wondering where everyone is. He stands at the door ofthe room, looking at the empty PW lobby. He perks up his ears at the least 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
letters to a lonely god 
sound, certain that somebody is coming to see him. Ifit's Security checking the dorm, he'll make friends with the fuzz, because he has no prejudices against uniforms. One security person doesn't make Darby's day. 
On a walk by the Huddle, he sniffs around looking for leftovers, on­ly nobody has left the debris from their lunch. Leashed outside the bookstore, he waits for company to visit. When he realizes that the only creatures he is seeingare the wild things supported by nature, I try to tell him the meaning oflife. 
"Out there, Darby," I say, pointing in the direction ofdowntown, "There's the real world. Students are always saying that the real world is waiting for them." Darby lifts his nose to smell a bush; it seems real enough to him. Worlds are always relatve in the ways they are real to you. 
"They call it the real world," I continue, "Because it doesn't promise to be nice to them. The real world doesn't offer contracts guaranteeing success to graduates returning home." 
Even here at Disneyland in the Emerald City, Darby finds evidence that the wind is not tempered to the shorn lamb. He sniffs at a bird's nest fallen from a tree. Four little blue eggs lie smashed on the ground. How can I tell what he knows about birth and death? 
Visiting the Founder's statue, he marks the place in the traditional way dogs have ofclaiming ownership. I look around to see ifpriests or trustees have been watching. The Sacred Heart statue is a landmark where I wait, saying my prayers, while Darby chases rab­bits -or at night, the ghosts of rabbits, in and out ofthe shadows. Here at the heart ofthe campus, symbols mean nothing to him, but he depends on symbols to keep me busy while he plays hunter. I try to stroke him into a moment ofquietness, as a creaturely equiv­alence to reverence, in honor ofGod's mother on the dome. "Domers facing the real world try to remember how she looks, standing in the pathway ofthe sun and moon," I explain. Darby quickly wriggles out of his moment ofgrace. 
At the church, I start to leash him while I go in to make a visit. He whimpers his protest. "Dogs can't go every place," I point out. He doesn't understand. I scratch him under the chin. "Catholics would complain that Darby O'Gll was disturbing their prayers." 
Sitting on the steps with my arms around him, I feel D-11 shivenng 
with excitement, as he always does when he thinks I'm denying him 
a great adventure. Iconsider wrapping him in my jacket and carrying 
him in like an abandoned baby with an old man's face. Finally, with 
him on a leash, I say: "Let's go." 

Ghosts are always waiting for me inside the church door: old 
priests' ghosts, memories haunting as ghosts; presences left behind 
like thumbprints by the living. For Darby, the place was full ofthe 
smells of burntout incense and dead mice. 
I explain as much as I can, using words ofone syllable to make it 
simple. Darby behaves like a Christian except once, when he is at­
tracted to an odor from someone he must have thought he knew. 
It sounds soft, bringing a dog into church. I want Darby to be a 
Notre Dame dog. I want him to meet the Sacred Heart ghosts. Sorin 's 
shade, as they say, keeps watching the church for sacrilege. Rockne 
haunts the place when they drive him out of the stadium because 
they're losing a game. Someday 1 will take Darby to Washington Hall, 
where he can also growl at the spook of the Gipper. 
"Darby," I tell him, on leaving, "you've seen more ofthe insides of 
this place than some oflast year's Seniors." 
We stop at the lake so that he can bark at the ducks. A floating, 
empty beer bottle serves as a reminder ofthose who have passed by, 
like the cigarette butts riding the tide at Normandy. At the Grotto, 
we wait, to see ifcandle lighters will come, looking for alternatives 
to cursing the darkness. Nobody shows up, so we go home to an 
empty hall. Soon we will leave to go to New York for the summer. 
The real world catches up with us all. 
The Senior who had nobody to say good-bye to, asked me to take his picture with the dog. Then, shaking hands and hugging Darby, he left. 
Good-byes should be well said, I think, because they are impor­tant. Goodbyes are your last chance to make sure you are well remembered. Today's goodbye might be more important to this par­ticular Senior than the Commencement address. IfDarby O'Gill has ever been inside Sacred Heart church, it wasn't me who brought him there. Poetic license is one of the pastoral techniques that seems as natural as myth-making. Any poet would become a pastor, if he owned a dog. 
Editorials 
Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 10 
Preparation means more than painted posts 
Summer break provides not only the time for stu­dents and faculty to recuperate; it also affords the University and College the time to replenish and refurbish its grounds and buildings. With this in mind, The Observer recommends the communities concentrate on the safety and health of their student bodies. 
During the past two weeks, maintenance person­nel have scurried around, cleaning the campuses for visitors and parents. Heaven forbid that a non­resident see a dull crosswalk line or chipped iron post. But as always, looks count in the Notre Dame game plan, a game plan which hopes to convince as many well-intentioned people as possible to be­queath their estates and money to the growing en­dowments ofthe University. 
·And while The Observer compliments those benefactors for their generosity, we abhor the means through which administrators gather the money which supports the work ofthe faculty, staff, and stu­dents. To paraphrase Immanuel Kant, "The ends never justify the means." 
For too long the administrators of both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have been unwilling to take steps to avoid personal and community-wide disas­ters by acting only after the event has taken place. Fire, the number one threat to both schools, remains the least prepared-for disaster. Three years ago, the burning of Saint Edward's Hall prompted a massive fire prevention program which is still in motion. But much more must be done. 
Those iron posts, the silverish glimmer of which blinds even those in sunglasses were cited as one of the major obstacles in fighting the Saint Edward's blaze. One fireman reportedly said the effort lost pre­cious minutes as firefighters could not drive the engines closer to the burning hall because the posts blocked the way. And these are the objects of the greatest care by the maintenance department and ad­ministrators who shout, "Stay offthe grass!" 
This year, fire drills in the dormitories were utter farces, complete with baffled students and rectors who were never totally sure of what to do or where togo. 
Personal safety, most noteworthy, the crime issue, centers on off-campus students who daily walk through some of the most poorly lit areas in Mic­hiana. A recent proposal by Notre Dame student government to erect lights along Ivy, Bulla, and Dunn Roads, and Vaness St., is a much needed answer to a growing crime problem. But because ofpoor student support for the new lighting measure, lights along these dark thoroughfares may never materialize. 
Health protection has long remained a concern of 
this 12,000-member community. Notre Dame boasts but two physicians, available only during the 40-hour work week. Saint Mary's resident physician is available only one hour every weekday. While the College and University are quite close to Saint Joseph's Medical Center and Memorial Hospital, the residential character of the schools demands more care for students who rarely leave the confines ofthe campuses. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are cities within themselves. It is the responsibility ofthose in charge of the cities to complete the care of its citizens. 
But in both issues offire and crime protection, the main culprit is not the students -most stay only four years. They do not carry the banner of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's; the administrators do. And it is the responsibility of these men and women who com­plete the chain of the campus communities to provide the link which enforces good ideas with ac­tion. 
Too often students hear what will happen next year, the yearafter they leave Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. While no school can remain static, the changes The Observer proposes are more sugges­tions of organization and common sense. And these changes are intended for those of us returning next year, and every year. 
Education begins when co-education ends 
Since the first day administrative personnel and a board of Holy Cross fathers presided over the direction of the University, major changes have occurred, some whose ramifica­tions are still felt. One of those decisions was co-education. 
Therese Brown 
Guest Columnist 
Ten years of co-education have provided 
' anyone interested with a lengthy compilation of facts, figures, and fantasies garnered from the various studies, surveys, and informal dis­cussions that have taken place in that time. Those who were sitting in those decision­making seats over I 0 years ago have observed a plethora of agitation and concetn about the development of co-education as a viable ex­perience at Notre Dame. A survey distributed to selected female seniors by the Social Science Research and 
Training Lab this semester questioned the stu­dents on the levels and types ofdiscrimination they had experienced because they were female. The researchers included academic, social, and interpersonal situations. 
One immediately noticed by reading the title and glancing at the questions the surv(:y was based on the premise that there was dis­crimination between the sexes. Not to say there isn't any; there is. Hopefully, though, we can try to alleviate the anxieties and pressures that result from discrimination by educating people. 
Notre Dame as an institution of higher learning is in the business of educating people. That is obvious by the report cards we receive from the Registrar's office and the bills from the Office ofStudent Accounts. But how well is Notre Dame educating its students to understand and deal with discrimination be­tween the sexes? Ifyou stand in the middle of any dorm party, Screw-your-Roommate (especially its preparations), or happy hour, the answer is obvious, "Not well." 

Any ofthose decision-makers sitting in their comfortable leather covered swivel chairs should be shirking at the failure of co­education to foster a social as well as an educa­tional environment in which men and women live together. 
Then again, maybe they should be smiling. 
Planted at ease around a board room table, the decision-makers determined that co­education should come to Notre Dame. In spite of what they probably believed was a decision for the better of the University and the overall education of its students, they are the ones who have fostered the growth ofdis­crimination. The reasons are clear in the lan­guage they use and the attitudes which prevail. 
During the tenth anniversary of co­education, we were constantly reminded of being either "men" or "women." The dor­mitory split is an omnipresent memorial to the fact there are "men" and there are "women" on campus. The fact remains that we are considered either men or women, are educated as men and women, and interact as men and women. Rarely are we are con­sidered, educated, and interacted with as just plain oldpeople. 
There is one place where men and women come together as people, the Church. The push for inclusive language in the United States has made most people aware that liturgical worship excluded women for cen­turies in its prayers and music by the use ofthe male pronoun. "All us men" in the Creed is now "all us." All of the St. LouisJesuits' music has been revised to eliminate exclusive lan­guage. The move has been toward a corporate identity as the People ofGod. 
Maybe the Church has one lesson to teach the University of Notre Dame. Maybe those in the seats ofpower should think about moving away from co-education and toward educa­tion and admitting people to the University instead of"men" and "women." 
Coverage only as good as interest 
There was a letter in The Observer (April 
29) signed by "357 concerned members of the Saint Mary's community" which requires a reply. The letter in question bemoans the lack ofcoverage ofSMC sports in The Observer. As one looking from the inside out for three years, I know the kind of problems The Ob­server has trying to cover Saint Mary's sport­ing events and, therefore, I cannot let that letter go unanswered. 
Tim Neely 
My Turn 
Admittedly, the coverage ofSMC's sports is not the greatest. That I cannot deny. Let's now look at the reasons why. 
•SaintMary's women don't seem to care. It is mildly amusing that 357 people signed the letter, while The Observer's Saint Mary's sports staff consists of ... one. Pity poor Judy McNamara, who must cover "seven varsity and five intramural sports" all by herself. This is not our fault either. Many times this paper runs a blurb stating: "The Observer is always looking for new talent." Never does anyone at Saint Mary's offer to improve things. One should expect women over there to have enough interest in their athletic teams to want to write about them. You can't expect Notre Dame people to cover something they have little legitimate reason to care about. You also· can't expect one person to do everything. That is why results are often relegated to "Sports Briefs" or run late. Often we are lucky to do that. 
•our audience. Roughly 11,000 copies of The Observer are printed each day. Nine thousand or so go to Notre Dame and mail subscriptions, most of the latter sent to Notre Dame-related people. The rest more than cover Saint Mary's. Let's look at that ratio. Four and a half to one in favor of Notre Dame. Ob­viously, first priority has to go to ND. We have to cater to our major constituency, and most of that cares an awful lot more about Notre Dame's results than about those at SMC. 
•Poor publicity. Saint Mary's this year had several NAIA District Ill All-American swim­mers, an outstanding achievement. But who knew about it? The Observer tried to cover it as if the same were occurring at Notre Dame, but was unable to do so. One thing sadly lack­ing across the street is a sports information director, or at least an assistant whose major emphasis is dissemination of Saint Mary's sports information. Even the most minor of Notre Dame varsity sports have .brochures 

which profile players and coaches, list lineups, and give a prospectus for the coming season. All SMC does is p·ublish schedules whic:h are often premature and error-ridden. It's hard to cover a Saint Mary's softball game when it is scheduled the same day it is to be played, as happened recently against Notre Dame. 
•Lack of cooperation from others. Many Saini: Mary's administrator~ and coaches are genuinely obnoxious and discourteous toward Observer staffers, and lack any sense of priorities. They complain when Notre Dame women's basketball gets more coverage than Saint Mary's women's basketball, for example. (Let me ask this: do you care more about a Division I NCAA team with a legitimate shot at post-season play, or an NAIA Division III team that has been in a holding pattern since Notre Dame's team went varsity in 1977?) They call us when they see their school referred to as anything other than "Saint Mary's College" or "Saint Mary's" or "the College." "St. Mary's" or -heaven forbid! -"SMC" are verboten. (Where would the University of California, Los Angeles be today without its famous ab­breviation, UCLA?) Most writers who have ever tried to write anything of length about SMC with those limitations never try again. 
Maybe it is time for a change. Very few people around here realize that when The Ob­server began, it was solely a Notre Dame stu­dent publication. It merged with a Saint Mary's student newspaper in 1968, thus the "serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's" in the masthead. Also in the masthead, however, are the words "the independent newspaper." Saint Mary's administrators can cringe if they want to ifwe shorten their school into "SMC," but they shouldn't "suggest" we not use it by calling us nearly every time it happens. 
Why doesn't Saint Mary's take the next logi­cal step: end the merger, withdraw its fees, and start its own damned newspaper? There are those on The Observer staffwho would not miss the unjustified phone calls from Saint Mary's administrators and coaches and who would much rather not have to worry about it. Let SMC try its own daily newspaper. Or even a weekly. Then the school officers could do what they wanted with it. 
There is more hassle than fulfillment cover­ing Saint Mary's sports, or Saint Mary's any­thing, for that matter, right now. If those 357 letter-signers give Mike Riccardi, the sports editor, or Anne Monastyrski, the Saint Mary's (news) editor, a call in the fall and offer to cover SMC volleyball, or SMC interhall, or SMC student government, or whatever, then they'll have no reason to complain. Until then, let them grin and bear what they get now, or try it on their own. 
Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 11 
Bishops' pastoral: A Catholic! watershed 
Chesterton once wrote that: "It's not that the principles of Christianity have been tried and found wanting, but found difficult and left untried." Up until last week, the morality of nuclear weapons and warfare had been practi­cally uninvestigated, let alone tried by the Catholic Church. But, after two years of in­formation gathering and intense debate, the American bishops approved last week in 
Thomas Melsheimer 
Last Line 
Chicago a draft of a pastoral letter on nuclear morality. Far from being a platitudinous ex­ercise in ecclesiastical rhetoric, the bishops' letter presents a seriously profound challenge to America's posture on nuclear weaponry. As such, it constitutes a grave moral watershed for all American Catholics. 
The bishops entitled the letter, designed by the American Church's primary source for teaching the moral consequences of nuclear weapons, The Challenge of Peace: God's Promise and Our Response. It begins with an examination of the Church's traditional sup­port of the so-called Just War doctrine. The bishops' position on nuclear weapons essen­tially rests on an extrapolation of this doctrine. 
One traditional point of the doctrine re­quires that for a planned military attack to be considered just, it must be strictly defensive in nature. Furthermore, the counterattack must have a reasonable chance of success ­and exactly what "success" means must be ra­tionally defined before the attack. Finally, the tenets ofthe doctrine absolutely preserve the protective immunity of civilian noncom­batants in any military operation. 
Without any amendment at all, these three points bear special significance in the context of nuclear war. The bishops letter, however, seriously expands the scope of the doctrine. Besides requiring an attack to be defensive, , the letter strictly renounces the first use of nuclear weapons in any military engagement. The United States government has consis,tent­ly refused to assent to a no-first-use agreement with the Soviet Union -and with good reason. The threat of the use of nuclear weapons is the cornerstone of NATO's defense ofWestern Europe. Overwhelmed by the Warsaw Pact nations in the area ofconven­tional weapons, NATO holds the nuclear card as its most formidable defense. The ramifica­tions of the bishops' rejection offirst-use can­not therefore be exaggerated. Western Europe would be overrun in a conventional attack and, in moral terms, the United States would be completely incapacitated. The let­ter is far from subtle on this point. It reads, "We do not perceive any situation in which the deliberate initiation ofnuclear warfare, on however restricted a scale, can be morally jus­tified." Needless to say, it is not surprising that many Western Europeans have been critical of the American bishops' position. 
If the Soviets were to initiate a nuclear at­

tack, the letter allows an American nuclear response. The just war requirement of "success," however, may limit the scope of such a response. A devastating first Soviet at­tack might put the United States in a position of only being able to delay an inevitable defeat. Rather than drag both countries into an Armageddon scenario, the morality of the letter might require an American surrender. 
The issue of civilian involvement in a nuclear exchange has been hotly debated by all nuclear strategists. The bishops reject countervalue targeting -aiming missiles at enemy population centers as opposed to military targets -and they remain doubtul as to the possibility of fighting alimited nuclear war. The letter expresses "profound skep­ticism about the moral acceptability of any use of nuclear weapons." It offers a "conditioned acceptance" of the concept of nuclear deterrence, but rejects it as a long term basis for peace. Since nuclear deterrence has been the center of American defense policy since World War II, the bishops' indict­ment ofthe strategy is not insignificant. 
The bishops make several practical recom­mendations for a solution to the nuclear threat, including a recommendation for a bilateral halt to the testing, production, and deployment of nuclear weapons. Such a recommendation is tantamount to an en­dorsement of the much publicized nuclear "freeze." 
As a fundamental indictment of America's primary defense posture, the letter will be dif­ficult for American Catholics to swallow. 
While the letter's practical recommendations may be disputed, its position on the morality of the use of nuclear weapons carries the full weight of Church authority. Imagine the potential moral dilemmas. The American Church cannot imagine a moral use for nuclear weapon. How, then, can Catholics continue to work for companies that produce nuclear weapons? If given the order to com­mence a first use nuclear attack, how could an American Catholic in moral terms carry it out? Ruling out first use in Europe, does the Church require Catholics to somewhat paradoxically support a massive conventional buildup? 
One could envision the Catholics in America simply rejecting the moral teachings of the letter, much in the same way they have almost universally rejected the· Church's teaching on artificial contraception. Still, the importance of the letter cannot be overes­timated. If Catholics do choose to reject the tenets ofthe letter, it will be serious alienation ofCatholics from their Church on an issue of immense significance. How long can an in­dividual associate himself with a particular church and, at the same time, reject the prin­ciple that church espouses? On the other hand, even a very loose acceptance ofthe let­ter's teachings would require American Cath­olics to support defense policies which are, in most ways, alien to present American nuclear strategy. Chesterton would no doubt remind American Catholics that the bishops' I 50 page text can be found wanting or left untried, but it cannot be ignored. 

What should have been two documents 
The final version of the National Council of Catholic Bishops' Pastoral on War and Peace presents the committed attempt of the 288­member body to give the American Catholic the nuclear-age equivalent of the Baltimore catechism. 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
But the scope of the pastoral as a universal document is tainted by an American sense of "God and Country," a sense inherenl." in citizens who believe the United States is the lone defender of freedom against the Soviet menace. As the combination of a lukewarm statement against nuclear proliferation and a sermon to America's 51 million Catholics, the pastoral attempts to decry nuclear war with­out offending anyone. 
The substitution of the word "halt" for "curb" in the passage concerning the further production, testing, and deployment of nuclear weapons, and the controversy surrounding the tone of the pastoral il­luminates the need for two documents, not on~. No document can singlehandedly ques­tion American military foreign policy and serve the healing and teaching function of a pastoral. 
Most Americans, whether Catholic or not, perceive a threat from the Soviet Union. Nurtured in a history of violence, few Americans believe peace will ever come to this planet until the Soviet Union falls to a stronger United States. 
Memories of the Munich Pact of 1938 and Neville Chamberlain's ill-fated "Peace in our time" are interwoven with the horrors of Auschwitz and Dachau. Americans hear the atrocities of the Gulag Archipelago and the cruelty of China's Gang of Four, and respond in a selfless fervor to right the wrongs oftyran­ny. 

Most American Catholics feel little conflict between American foreign policy in El Sal­vador and papal denunciations of violence in Central America; the pope's condemnation of violence, while commendable is not as practi­cal as shipping arms to fight supposed Moscow-trained insurgents. 
As American pastors, the bishops cannot ap­pear as if they are reacting to this concept of national defense. "Hippies" did that in the 1960s and alienated almost everyone over the age of30. Non-violence is a concept foreign to most Americans. A nation of)ohn Wayne and George Patton fans label the conscientious objector and the pacifist commitment as "yellow." 
A non-pastoral statement could have cen­tered its attack as the response of the American Catholic hierarchy to the current threats and implications of the MX and Cruise 
missiles, tank build-ups in Europe, and the conventional and nuclear arsenals of the su­perpowers. But the bishops did not want to appear political; such a statement would en­danger the warped modern-day notion of the division ofchurch and state. 
Attempting to combine a pastoral with a statement, the bishops have alienated both conservative and liberal American Catholics. 
It is to the people of the United States that the pastoral is addressed. Delivered from the pulpit, the letter cannot be a wordy or theologically nebulous document. But the very length of the document allows con­servative ministers the opportunity to gloss over challenges, though sugar-coated, to American war policy. 
In essence, the bishops should have composed a pastoral reassuring conservative Catholics of the Church's support of America's commitment to freedom and a hard-nosed political statement denouncing America's possession of nuclear arms. 
====Ihe Obset:Ver===Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic Saint Mary's Editor ···········-······Anne Monastyrski Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe Spflrts Editor ..................... _ ..........Michael Riccardi 
The Obsert•er is the independent newspaper published by the students of [he Uni­Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Features Editor.....·-········-···-·-·-·······Sarah Hamilton versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide Photo Editor................... ·--··-······-·-····-···Scott Bower the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­News Editor .................................... Mark Worscheh curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon of a 
Department Managers
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present 
Business Manager ............... -...........Daniel O'Hare Production Manager ··-..··--·-·····Suzanne La Croix
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Controller ...............................................Alex Szilvas Circulation Manager·--·---···-······-··-·-·· Mark Miotto
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Advertising Manager ..........................Chris Owen Systems Manager ---··-·····-·----··---··---···Bruce Oakley
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 12 
Abraaon!l 
Register To Win A $200 Shopping Spree! 
To be given away at Every Paul Harris Budget Store No Purchase N•:K:essary. Drawings held May 21, 1983, noon in each Paul Harris Budget Store. Need not be present to win. 
Polos &Shorts 
•• Polos-Compare at $16 • Poly/Cotton Blends •• Brights, Pastels and Assorted Stripes 
• Sizes S-M-L 
•• Shorts-Compare at $15 • Poly/Cotton Blends •• White and Bright Colors • Sizes 5/6-15/16 •• Great Fashion Looks, Belts, Pleats or Cuffs 
Handbags Twin Sets 
• 
Compare at $9 • Compare at $20 

• 
Canvas, Nylon, • Two piece Poly/ Vinyl, and Linen Cotton Knits 

• 
Earth Tones and • Stripes, Solids, and Fashion Colors Prints 



$999 
McKinley Town & Country·~---------------------------­Scottsdale Mall 


---~­

_____________,i 
Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 13 I c===~=======F==============================~ I
Sports Brief§ 1 ! 
by The Obserz•er and The Associated Pres.r 
Four years of Sports memories 
Through these past four years, through good times
The Notre Datne lacrosse teatn finished the 
and bad, there have been several memorable sporting Chris Needles 
year with a win -19-2 over Oberlin -but ended the season with a 
events -those happenings that make Notre Dame a mediocre 6-7 record. An improved schedule was the major cause for 
special place to be a sports fan. Choosing the top ten Sports Editor Emeritus the poor record. Inexperience also played a large role as the Irish 
events, even after two consecutive Jean years, is a dif­were played with mental errors at the beginning of the year. The 
ficult task, and there are bound to be discrepancies. But, record is deceiving, however, because this year's squad was greatly 
nonetheless, here goes: improved over last year's team that finished 9-6 and went to the 
1). Notre Dame 76, DePaul 74 (2 OT) (Feb. 27, recovered a Tide fumble. Mdwest Lacrosse Association championship game. This year, Coach 
1980 at the ACC) -Although most would flip-flop my 5). Notre Dame 31, Pitt 16 (Nov. 6, 1982 at Pitt Rich O'Leary brought in a good group offreshmen and new players 
Nos. 1 and 2, I beg to differ. This game, for its intensity Stadium) -The only time in four years that the foot­who played a major role on the team. Freshman Joe Franklin and 
and constant ebb-and-flow, was the best of the four ball team defeated the nation's No. I team (the basket­transfer student Bob Trocchi were the leading scorers for Notre 
years in any sport. DePaul was 25-0 and ranked No. 1 ball team did it three times). A couple of flea-flickers Dame, scoring 33 and 36 points, respectively. Justin Shay, a sopho­
coming into that Wednesday night date, and the Blue and the superb running of Allen Pinkett, along with a more defenseman from Carlisle, Mass., was named Most Valuable 
Demons jumped out to a quick lead, lost it, regained it, crucial Pitt fumble, lifted the Irish. Player. Steve Pearsall and Kevin Smith have been named the co­
and lost it again. Mark Aguirre was awesome, scoring 28 6). Notre Dame 12, Michigan 10 (Sept. 15, 1979at captains for next year's team. -The Observer 
points, but Kelly Tripucka matched that total. Tracy Michigan Stadium) -Memorable primarily because Jackson hit two free throws to send the game into it was our first game freshman year, but also because of overtime, Rich Branningsank acorner jumper to force a the spectacular ending -Bob Crable playing leap-frog second extra period, and finally Orlando Woolridge to block Michigan's last-second field goal attempt. 
made two foul shots with 30 seconds left to end the Chuck Male's four field goals were NO's only offensive madness. There may have been better singular threat, but it proved to be enough.
There are many Saint Mary's teams and athletes 
"moments," but as agame this was tops. 7). UCLA 51, Notre Dame 50 (Feb. 8, 1981 at the performing in national tournaments in the next month. Members of 
2). Notre Dame 29, Michigan 27 (Sept. 20, 1980 at ACC) -A personal favorite. With UCLA leading 50-48 the fencing team will be competing in San Francisco in earlyJune in 
Notre Dame Stadium) -Things looked bleak as Blair and 10 seconds left, the Bruins' Michael Holton, shoot­the U.S. Fencing Association Championships. Eileen Mendez will be 
Kiel entered his first Notre Dame football game. Michi­ing away from the student body, missed the first oftwo the best Belle hope for a medal. John Killeen's tennis team will play 
gan had just taken a 27-26 lead with less than a minute free throws. The students screamed for the "townies" in the NAJA National Championships in Kansas City from May 31­
left, and Kiel was in the shotgun. His first pass was a lame to stand up, and for once they did. Waving their free June 5. Debbie Laverie leads the Belles. Three members ofthe track 
duck, way underthrown, intended for Tony Hunter -Irish flags, the townies, many of them elderly, started team -Annette lsom, Cyndy Short, and LisaJohnston -will travel 
but pass interference was called, good for 40 yards. yelling and jumping around in an attempt to distract to West Virginia in late May to compete in the NAJA Track Cham­
With Bo Schembechler livid on the sidelines, Kiel hit Holton. Undaunted, Holton sank the free throw to seal pionships. The oqly Saint Mary's varsity team that will not be playing 
Hunter, who had the presence of mind to get out of the Bruin victory. To this day, however, l have never in a tournament is the softball team that did not qualify for the dis­
bounds. The Irish had three seconds left, no timeouts, a heard the ACC -or any other college arena -so trict tournament. Rain played a major role in the poor showing as 22 
15 MPH wind in their faces and were still 35 yards from deafening. games were rained out, causing the team not to play enough games 
the end zone. Enter Harry Oliver -and exit, for some 8). Notre Dame 4, St. Louis 3 (OT) (Sept. 15,1981 to have a chance at qualifying. -The Observer 
miraculous reason, the 1 5 MPH wind. Harry O's 51-yard at Alumni Field) -Sami Kahale's second goal of the field goal through the calm air just cleared the crossbar, game sent the Irish soccer team to the upset over the sending 59,075 fans into ecstasy and sending Notre powerhouse, top-five Billikens before over 2,000 fans at Dame on to a successful season -albeit the only suc­the dedication ofthe new Alumni Field. It was undoubt­cessful season ofour four years. edly the biggest victory in the history of Rich Hunter's 
3). Notre Dame 57, Virginia 56 (Feb. 22,1981 at six-year program. the Rosemont Horizon) -Despite a superb "wagon­9). Louisiana Tech 81, Notre Dame 39 (Feb. 11, train" defense that encircled Ralph Sampson, holding 1983 at the ACC) -Mary DiStanislao's Irish womenJoe Piane's track teatn, after a very success~!_ in­him to 10 points and 9 rebounds, Notre Dame still gave the two-time defending national champions adoor and outdoor season, looks ahead to some tough competttton trailed the No. 1 and undefeated Cavaliers through most battle for about 25 minutes before being overwhelmed over the next month. First up for the Irish is the Billy Hays Invitation­of the second half... until Orlando Woolridge by Tech's superior talent. More important, though, wasal which will be run this weekend. Following the Hays Invitational, retrieved a loose ball in the right corner and threw in a the attendance -over 4,000 people showed up,the team will travel to Phladelphia to compete in the IC4A's. After desperation 18-footer at the buzzer. making it one of the largest crowds to see a women'sthat will be the NCAA Championships from June 1-4. Van Pearcy, 4). Notre Dame 7, Alabama 0 (Nov. 15, 1980 at basketball game in the country this season.
Andy Dillon, and Tim Cannon are expected to lead the team. J_im 
Legion Field in Birmingham) -Undoubtedly NO's 10). Notre Dame 18, South Carolina 17 (Oct. 27,
Tyler,Jim Moyar, andJohn McCloughan are also counted on to fimsh best display of defense in these four years. Joe Yonto's 1979 at Notre Dame Stadium) -Rusty Lisch hit Dean
well. -The Observer 
vaunted Irish defense did not allow Bear's boys beyond Masztak for a TO with 42 seconds left, then found Pete NO's 28 yard line. Phil Carter's one-yard TO plunge cul­Holohan for the winning two-point conversion to minated a three-yard Irish drive after Scott Zettek defeat George Rogers and the Gamecocks. 
Classifieds 
Teresa Dy. 

Faculty or Grad Students. 4 Bedroom I DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE CAR­Help I'm lost' Ton-y. 
Graduatron rsn·t gorng to be much fun

House, fully turn1shed w1th washer/dryer DINAL BERNADIN !!!.. and my best Best of luck m law school. Thanks for all w•thout you around. But thars ok: I'll
NOTICES 
N1ce! $400/month. 288-3109 fnend IS graduat1ng. I w1ll pay BIG BUCKS DearM C the confrdence tn me Your presence rs re­for a TICKET TO GRADUATION. Call Th1s IS a spec1al thank you to the g1rl quested at eaCh and every Observer tarl­
pretend that you'll be here 1n sp1nt. Take 
Care rn Georgta! Ken5-BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL $400 Gus at 263-t215 after 6 pm before who has kept me go.ng for the past four gater next fall. Good luck. Margaret 

TYPING, Jack1e Boggs. 684-8793 233-6779. graduat1on !!!! years. When t1mes were tough. 11 was you P.S. Do you want to cover a fmance who p1cked me up. Th1S graduatiOn wo~;tld lecture? To the t983-84 Observer Ed1tonal Board 
not have been poss1ble without your love We ve had our etght weeks of ex· MAKE YOUR SCHOOLS OUT PARTY A and support. Thank you. Bruce. perrmentatton. mtstakes and problemsSMASH LET CREATIVE AUDIO PLAN 
And love always I never sard I drdn t want to go to Now let"s do some real work and tmprove THE MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT GREAT 
A.A Elkhart You·ve made the best deci­SIOn Thanks for all the support 1n my TIME. CALL 277-6046 MORNINGS th1s paper Have a good summer I'll be 1n touch
Hey there B•g ·o ·. C.T T T. I th1nk I can handle 11 on my own RIDE NEEDED TO THE BUF­
CRUISE SHIP JOBS! Great 1ncome JANET 
I'm Sl> glad we were able to be here to· from now on. 1 guess 1"11 have to. Elkhart FALO/SYRACUSE AREA FOR THIS a
potenttal. all occupattons For mformatton Here's a late Happy Birthday and 
gether thiS year'! ll's been great!! I'm soon. Good luck, Margaret 
call602-837-3401 Ext. 866 w1sh for a good gradual!On and a good
WEEKEND CAN LEAVE THRS. 
g01ng to m1ss seetng your sm1hng face DESPERATE. CALL 2963. thanx 
year 

around campus next year Congratula­Tam· Don't forget to change the message 
LUCRATIVE SUMMER/LIFE-TIME Love 
To the Class of t983 Observer Alumn~: BUSINESS!! FREE INFORMATION!! The Lew1s FANS 
l•ons & Happy Graduation!!! 1n my f1le before you go. You fmally got 
82 GRAD needs female roommate 1n Congratulatrons on survtvmg four years of 
Love. your wrsh--1 m sure gomg out wrth me was Evanston IL Call Rem (312) 864·8494 Baby-Pants all you ever expected and more .(In a The Observer, not to ment1on schoolBOX 495-C23, MOBERLY. MO 65270. 
Oav1d -Are you sure want to marry a --­work (School work?) Good luck n all youP S Remember purely professronal sense. of course.)

bait like that g~ri? V1Ck1-I heard you swore off men agatn. 

Need Aide to NYIll do, and may The Observer always have a
Celebrate like h---!!! Good luck. Margaret Leavtng anyt1me after graduation, say safe place •n your heart 
How's the 1ce taste?

LOST/FOUND 
5/15 or 5116, to NYC-Westchester HEY P R Take care God Dav1d Dzl8dZIC
and Usual. Frank -3t64 
Jeff -How heartbroken are you go.ng to 

bless.Love.YOUR FRIEND ALWAYS Up And Coming Theatre! Ashowcase of !he absurd! 
be come October 4th'? 
Johna-Do you st111 have Bla•rs ears? 

FOUND ON SOUTH QUAD: Cas10 five­WANTED 
LOST KODAK 600 CAMERA w1th Initials Cntrcs say 11 rs lrke nothrng they have ever function watch. Has tnrttals on the back. DEAD OR ALIVE 
M1ke & C•m -Was Flonda worth 11? rm melting! melting .. me1t1ng .. 
LML at Wedd1ngless Reception. lmpt seen. 
I graduating

Blue. w•th sliver watchband. Call Marty at t975to 1982 car or truck. Must be very Well maybe not, but am 
p1ctures on f1lm. Please return to Laura­See Chalifour, Konrady, Stouffer, and a t022. reasonable -condition not 1mportant 
M1ke. wh•ch IS almost as shock1ng. I would like 
t20 BP(#t253) cast of tens. 
Ill always tove you. to say all the usual bye-byes. rts beenW1ll cons1der all cars 1nclud1ng luxury. Im­Hosted by Ryan Ver Berkmoes. ··a untque
Karyn greats. have a mce hies. etc. to the usual 
ONE MORE TRY!' Were you at St Ed·s port & sports. Howie 287-7216 or 277-talent?..
CONGRATULATIONS DAN KEUSALIII people
formal before Easter? D1d you walk out 1n 5t25. to the not the other KQ, MAY YOU HAVE MANY HAPPY YEARS Tune in Sunday Morning at 8:30 on To the spec1al ones. you know how I feel the wrong shoes? I nave your navy Red 

AHEAD OF YOU. WNDU Channel 16.
Courtyard blues and brUiseS. one bold anywayCross shoes. but I prefer my own navy 
A Down and Our production.

Wednesday. Uh huh yeah, 1ust one LOVE, YOUR "FRIENDS!" To the teachers who passed me. theUpstage shoes..please trade back!! I ··sneakers· untied. electnc1an taped checks are tn the marl.
cannot wear yours!!! call Ltz a 6825 
YEA CLUELESSIJII???????
FOR SALE 
roses. a pass•on chapel, chocolate To those whO didn't. I hope my evalua· 
k1sses. a p•nk balloon. one classy roll ot Itons are read by the tenure committee. CONGRATULATIONS ANNIE BODOH'!! 
LOST IN MUD PITS Poto keycha.n With 
FOSI VEA MONKER Oh, the 
TP. candles at the Grona. Thanx for all It has been an Important f1ve years. I hOpeREMEMBER. WE LOVE YOU!!!!! 3BPW
#234 on them. REWARD!•~ Please call humanity M1ke· (The figure­
3288. bonehead) The carnwal atmosphere that 
REFRIGERATOR-L1ke New Call MJ at and more. But. k1d. keep your donuts. my emergence 1nto the real world Will 7950 benefit all. 
pervaded made thts year a real cartoon
DRINK, DRINK, DRINKIIJJ 
Yours 1n sheep. CAR FOR SALE Ryan
Gold key nng w•th '"'l!als ·JFG.. and two Volunteers who are rnterested tn QIVInQ a lfs been great. I'll keep your club handy to 
room keys 1n park•ng lot east of Grace or year or a summer of lovmg servtee to the keep the m1n.ons 1n line. Best ol luck and 
Honda -good cond11!on Call 277-8546 fOrtunate .n our m•dst. send a postcard !rom Jersey p.s. Thanks Mom and Dad. 
1n or around Grace. Please call John Gib­less AllelUia Hawkeye: Someday. Meer me in Saini
after5p.m.
bon at 283-62t4 Village. a communlly for oevelopmentally Louis A beer and a grape Neh1 to go Ryan. Don't worry, I'll water the plant. You Tratns may derarl m Chicago. but the k>ved1sabled aduKs . .n Orange. CA. could use 
please LOST. KODAK 600 Camera at Weddmg­FACULTY the help or car•ng persons-age 19-65 -Radar 
have a standmg mv!latton to vtst1 MY of a good fnendsh1p can last forever 
offrce. tt"s been an actrve year: the chaos.
less ReceptiOn lr~portant p1ctu<es on 5 bdrm/2 bath bnck house for sale or call Center for Soc•al Concerns 239-5293 Than!< you very much for it all 
the boneheads. the late n•ght oH1ceftlm Please return to Laura • 1 20 lease ($700 per mo.) close to NO wet bar. for -nore rnfo. 
why? That IS alii have to say pranks. the business meetings . the
BP(#t253) fireplace. garage. Call (404) 452-7321 tO 
countless meals. the last MASH 1 we saw Mike, we did it buddy, bye-bye crazies/ 
amto6pm Is Katonah anywhere close to 
Semor Class. I reahze rt wasn"t a great the whole th•ng). the duck 10kes. many RyHuh. Joe. Good Luck next year Hon 
recrurtrng year. but I m convrnced you"ll all v1S1ts to McDonald·s. the roadlnps do well out ·there rn t~e ··real world. · (Franklin, Crawfordsville and beyond).
Gorgeous 

FOR RENT:=] 
You ve been a fabulous group: I'll m1ss the gun, the grenade, the endless There·s more to love than golf courses.
Paul Comber Thanks tor all those encouragmg mo­

TICKETS 
you. Take Care ChiCanery Send postcards and VISit of­and you beller know how I feel. Here's to 
ten hang1ng out and being mellow Summer School? Apts for Rent near N.D HELP NEED GRAD TICKETS CALL Bone Voyage. you two 
ments over the past three years rm -Katie (Placement Bureau) 
cymbly go•ng to m1ss you Ut1ht1es Pd. Less Gas ph.272026t MIKE t102 M hmrn Fondly, Margrah I still say It loOks like a bank! 
L______________________,____.....____::;;c:-----·----.1 


f The Observer Commencement Issue, 1983-page 14 
• • . Valuable
! 
'Moose' Award voting 
street" to most residents of Notre 
continuedfrom page 20 
Dame, Ind.

Male Athlete of the Year Female Athlete of the Year 
John Paxson. basketball (12) 220 
practice she missed, the better she "In Gail, Saint Mary's is just start­
Kirt Bjork, hockey (2.5) 144.5 Gail Casey, SMC swimming (6) 173 
performed in the meet. The greater ing to find someone to latch on to,
Ola Harstrom, fencing (.5) 121.5 Karen Bauters, NO volleyball (2) 166 
the pressure, the better she per­someone to point to as a standard,"
Mike Johnston, football 119 Mary Beth Schueth. NO basketball (2) 144 Steve Dziabis, track (2) 117 Shari Matvey, NO basketball (6) 131 
formed. says Trees. "It's beneficial to all of 
Saint Mary's athletics that she is get­
Mark Fisher, wrestling 79 Vennette Cochiolo, NO swimmmg 99 
Rick Chryst, baseball 57.5 Laura Dougherty, NO basketball ( 1) 87 
ting attention."

"We never knew until right at the
Tony Hunter. football 45 Annette lsom, SMC track 63 
last moment whether she'd practice.
Mark McMahon, tenn1s 44 Susan Valdiserri, NO fencing 62 
Casey's 173 points and six first­She'd bring ice to meets and
Justin Shay, lacrosse 41 Susie Panther, NO tenn1s 54 
place selections outdistanced Notrepractices and we'd let her out of
Mark Zavagnin, football 40 Debbie Laverie, SMC tenms 53 
Dame freshman volleyball starpractice when her knee went."
Mario Manta, soccer 28 Cindy Short, SMC basketball and track 37 
Karen Bauters and Notre Dame
Tim Bohdan, swimming 17 Trish Nolan, SMC softball 21 
women's basketball players Mary
Jackie Moran, baseball 14.5 Jeanne Grasso, NO field hockey 15 
Casey swam with pain, and that Beth Schueth, Shari Matvey and
Kevin Griffith, football 6 Eileen Mendez, SMC fencing 6 
may be another new symbol for Laura Dougherty.
Brent Chapman, hockey 6 Kathy Ray, NO field hockey 5 
Saint Mary's. Casey's determination
Mike Larkin, football 1 Marianne Viola, SMC volleyball 3 
and sheer guts defy SMC stereotypes
Tony Kennedy, golf 1 
In fourth place was Casey's arch­and may just be part ofan awareness rival from Notre Dame, freshman
First-place votes in parent/1eses 

on the campus that is "across the 
Vennette Cochiolo. In three meetings at the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's meet this February. Casey 
"Repeating... acomputerfinals week will.
postponed: ...· 


defeated Cochiolu two of the three times they raced. Gail Casey has also asserted Saint Mary's case by defeat­ing the I98I-82 Athlete of the Year, Jeanine Blatt, as a sophomore. 
Casey was the cornerstone of a Saint Mary's swim team that used 1982-83 as a chance to build a tradi­tion for itself. And the season was an opportunity not missed, as the Belles seized respect at their first ap­pearance in the nationals in Arkansas. 
When that tradition is finally built, Gail Casey's accomplishments will stand as goals for all who follow. 
It won't be easy reaching those goals, however, as she has already left most Belle records in her wake, and still has an,Hher year to go. She races in five of the seven races in each meet, always left to compete in the race that is important in the tina! standings. 
''When the chip~ were down, we used her to anchor relavs," savs Trees. "When we needed the poin~s, she got them f(>r us.'' 
Her best event is the IOO-meter 
individual medley which she has 
finished in I :03.8. This time, which 
she posted in the NAIA ~atonals. is 
less than .two sec.onds offthe nation­
al record. However, she competed 
in tlve events at the nationals, 
including the I00 tly, -!00 medley 
relay, 800 free relay, 100 free. the 
I00 I.M., and the 200 medley relay. 
Casey's selection caps off a season of honors for Tree's swim team. Besides Ca~ey, Amy Studer, Rosie Whalen, Ellen Byrne, Nancy Loren­zini, Julie Maier, Cathy Murray, and Colleen Ambrose were all named All-Americans. In addition. Loren­zini, Lucy Hanahan, and Angie Mic­hillutti joined Casey as academic All-Americans. 
As surprising as it mav seem that a 
Saint Mary's athlete won the award, 
however. Bauters' selection as 
runner-up is even more ofa surprise. 
Not that Bauters did not deserve 
consideration. but that she is only a freshman. Despite being a new· comer, though, she played a major role in the incredible improvement of the Sandy Vanslager's volleyball ~quad. After years of3-19 and I 7-2 5, the Irish record improved to 25-9 ­in its first year ofDivsion I. 
Bauters finbhed the voting just seven pontts behind Casey and received tWt1 first-place votes. 
The other firsr.. place votes went to Schueth, Dou~'lerty, and Matvey. Schueth kd Ma..ry DiStanislao's te.. m in rebounding and scoring for the second str:tight year, while Doug­herty led the team in assists and made two last-st:cond shots to give the Irish wins. Matvey, one of only two players graduating ti-om the team, owns 33 Notre Dame scoring and rebounding marks and played a major role in the growth of the women's basketball program. 
The Observer Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 15 

The third-year charm 
Two weeks ago, The Sporting News announced that it will choose Notre Dame as its pre-season No. 1 team in college football. If the team performs to the potential displayed in its phenomenal recruiting of the last three years, there may be some truth in that publication's assertation. 
Of course, that's what some said the last two years, too, right? And look what the Irish were left with ­records of5-6 and 6-4-1 including, in last year's ledger, a tie against national"powerhouse" Oregon. But this year Gerry Faust has history and tradition on his side, and you know what role those play at Notre Dame. 
Remember a man named Knute Rockne? He became head coach here in 1918. In 1920 -his third year -his 9-0-0 team was recognized as Western champions in a day before Eastern sportswriters paid much attention to football west ofthe Alleghenies. 
Then there was Frank Leahy. His first season under the Dome was 1941. In his third year, 1943, the Irish went 9-1 and won the national championship, their Ol)­ly loss coming in the last game of the season to service powerhouse Great lakes. 
How about another Hall of Fame coach, Ara Parseg­
hian? He took over the reins of a hurting program in 
1964. Two years later, in his third season, Ara won his 
first national championship with a 9-0-1 record. 
Finally, there is the much-maligned Dan Devine. He 
was nearly lynched in 1975 when the team went 8-3, 
but in 1977 -his third year -he guided Notre Dame 
to an 11-1 record and another national championship. 
Sense a pattern here? 
If you're not convinced yet, let's cross Juniper Road, 
both old and new, to the late Fieldhouse or the current 
ACC to check in on some basketball legends. 
First there's the greatest coach in ND basketball his­
tory, Hall of Farner George Keogan. He came here from 
Valparaiso (yes!) in 1923-24. After 15-8 and 11-11 
seasons, the latter his worst here, he guided the Irish to 
a 19-1 season his third year, a record he matched only 
"'l:esalmon "arwaiter 
en croute had a was top notch. 
nice, flaky crust He even recom­
which really mended our 
enhanced its wine which was 
taste:' excellent:' 

Tim Phelan Alice Farner South Bend, Indiana South Bend, Indiana 
©1983 (ontmental fWstaurant Sy,tems 
Tim Neely 
Sports Copy Editor 


once. 

The man who replaced Keogan upon his untimely death in 1943 was Edward "Moose" Krause. His third season, 1946-47, was his best, as the Irish had a 20-4 record and turned down an NCAA bid. 
Then we have the man that Digger Phelps will tie this coming season for second place on the Irish coaches' longevity chart,John Jordan. His third season, 1953-54, turned out his best. The Irish went 22-3 and almost made the Final Four of the NCAA tournament, losing to Penn State in the Mideast Regional, the first in a long string of upsets which has plagued ND in post-season play. That team was the highest-rated ND basketball team at the end ofthe season until1973-74. 
And speaking of 19 7 3-7 4, that was the year ofthe end of UCLA's 88-game winning streak. It was also the year o(a final record of26-3. Finally, it was-ofcourse -the third year of the t tenure of Richard "Digger" Phelps. 
So history says that the third year should be the charm for Gerry Faust. Ifit isn't, he will most likely face the same fate that befell Hunk Anderson, Terry Bren­nan, and Joe Kuharich, none of whom had their· con­tracts renewed when it was that time. Anderson and Brennan had their worst seasons in their third years, and Kuharich had a mediocre 5-5 ledger in his. 
By Jan. 3, 1984, we'll know for sure whether Faust becomes a fable or a footnote in ND sports annals. But this time he has the heavyweights on his side. Not only does he have the talent, but he has the ghosts in his 
favor. 

• 
~t 

TIPPECANOE 
PLACE our food 
is as fabulous 
as our setting. 
Our staff is 
dedicated to 
providing you 
with the finest 
dining experience 
to be found 
anywhere ...at an 
affordable price. 
Next time you 
dine out, visit 
us at Tippecanoe
"qlike the 

Place. You'll like
atmosphere, the 

the way we makeservice and the 
the occasion
food. All three 
SPECIAL:'
go hand-in-hand to make a pleasant 


Alan, K. Martuneac,
. " 
evenmg. 

Chef de Cuisine 
Gene Nemeth 

Mark S. McDonnell, South Bend, Indiana 
General Manager 


Ir---------------------,
TIPPECANOE 
I 
I PLACE® 

RESTAURANT

I I I I 
I 
620 W Wash.ngton. South Bend. 234-9077 

ANY TWO (2) DINNER ENTREES : 
JUST $1995 I 
You can save up to $13.45 1 
Presentth•s coupon when or< ·ng and you and your companion will rece1ve any two dinner entrees of your choice. includ•ng our 
I 
tables1de salad. bread and buller. vegetable of the day. and rice or pctatoes for just $19.95. 

I Coupon good during dinner hours through June 30. 1983. except on Easter. Mother's Day and May 13 through 15. 1983 Not . 
I 
valid in conjunction with any other speoal offers or for banquets. Does not include appetizers. desserts. beverages. or tax and tip. 
I 
NOIN-C ©1983 Conrult"ntal Re...lauranl ~l(>m., 
The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. & Holi 
~I 

TRUCK LEASING, INC. 710 N. NILES AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN. 46617 (219) 232-5871 
~c 
.HERTZ 10 
Y--ENSKE
IN 

ONE WAY·
IG 

JBUCKS 
SPECIAL Dif.COUUTS
ll I 
---·--·-­
FOR N.D. :l',nnr.nTS 
L MUST Be 21 A TIONS CLASS OF 83. 

G&ILIL P-!11rJii8 
&IO"'~B&IDE aaaa~IIGR 
liUJ~ ii!J'II~:J.L :ll~:.U ~~ .. 

God's Work NeedsYouf 
Urgent: Christian organizations are suffering cntical personnel shortages. Thousands of openings need to be filled now. All vocations, in the U.S. and overseas. Discover opportunities that fit you ... contact Intercristo! You'll receive a current list of openings that require your skills and experience. God's work needs you. 
Contact lntercristo today: 1(800)426-1342 (Alaska, Hawaii, Washington state, (206) 546-7330). Or return the coupon below. 
r--------------------------, 
I 1  •  '  lntercristo The Christian  CC  ~ a division of ~  I I  
1  ~  •  Career Specialists.  1  
1  PO. Box 33487  Please send me information on  1  
I  1  Seattle, WA 98133  finding "my place" in God's work.  1  
1 I  Name  1 I  
I  Arldress  I  

I I

City ___________________ 
1 State Zip I 
~-------------------------J 
I I 
The Observer Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 16 
NCAA Division II 
Women's tennis ends 3rd in nation 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Assista11t Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team finished up the year as the No. 3 Division II team in the country af· ter competing in the NCAA tourna· ment last weekend in California.
:-.. 
Tennesee-Chattanooga came in first while Cal-Davis was right ahead of the Irish. 
Eight teams are chosen by a com· mittee of coaches around the country. Invitations are granted to one team from every region of the country, and then four at-large bids fill the bill. 
Coach Sharon Petro teared about the Irish hid to the tournament on May 2. She had prepared her team for the postseason competition through heavy winter conditioning and tough Division I matches all sea~on long. After suffering defeats at the hands of teams such as Northwestern and Purdue, and heating the best Division II teams in the Midwest (Morehead State and University of Illinois at Ed­wardsville), the Irish were ready for 
California. 

On the first day of the tourna­totheNSC ment. Notre Dame handily defeated the No. S-seeded Westchester State 
Looking ahead 


of Pennsylvania 9·0. But, Cal-Davis 
turned the tables around and 
finished off the Irish 8-1. 

In the Cal-Davis match, three Irish 
players -Mary Colliigan, Pam Fis· 
chette, and Cathy Schnell -won 
their first sets only to lose the next 
two in close battles. 

"Even though we lost as a team by an 8· I score, a few breaks here and there would have turned things around," Petro said. "Someone would have to look at the individual scores to see how close it really was." 
On the second day, Notre Dame faced the No. 4 seed, Northern California, and came out victorious, 6-.3. The win gave the Irish their No. .3 position in the country. 
Wednesday and 1 hursday would have hn·n the singles and doubles 
• • • Passing 
continued/rom page 20 

agreed. "We have a better killer in­
stinct." 

After a holding penalty stalled the 
tlrst drive of the game for the Blues, 
that killer instinct could be seen in 

Yes, I would like further information on the following programs: 
ION& 
@®!1!1[M~ 
715 North Ave. New Rochelle New York 10801 (914)636·21 00 ext. 592 
Name ________________________~-----------------­Address ___________________________________________ 
City---------------State ___ 
tournament. Colligan was slotted to compete for the Irish. Because ofthe death of her brother, however, she was forced to leave early. Since a team is not allowed to replace a player after the line-ups are already set, the Irish forfeited their spot in both competitions. 
"As expected, the emotions were high," Petro said about Colligan's tragedy. "It's just something we all have to get over." 
The presence of Notre Dame at the national tournament was a first for tile women's program. It's a fact that makes Petro very proud. 
"I was very pleased with our per· formance," she said: "We proved that we can play with the best teams in the country." 
Now, Notre Dame will be recognized as one of those teams. 
the next three touchdown drives by 
the Blue squad which covered 77, 
80 and 7S yards respectively. 

Walk-on Thant Wright provided 
the 20,028 in attendance with the 
most exciting play of the game as he 
took the kickoff and ran I00-yards 
for the touchdown that brought the 
White team back to only a seven­
point defecit. 

Neither the shift in momentum 
for the White squad. nor a holding 
penalty on the Blue squad, stopped 
the Blue team from continuing to 
dominate going uptleld on the next 
possesion. 

Kiel sat out the next two posse­
sions for the Blue team as the score . closed to 23-15. The Blue score 
came when a centered snap from the 
shotgun formation for the White 
team went out of the endzone for a 
safety. The White squad proceeded 
to burn the first-team defense on 
their next possesion with a couple of 
trick plays. 

Fullback Jeff O'Neill took a hand­
off from quarterback Todd Lezon, 
and tossed the ball back to Lezon 
who threw a 55-yard rocket 
do\> nfield to' Pat Cusack. The play 
set up Lezon's one-yard sneak for the 
touchdown a play later. Mike 
Viracola caught the defense off­
guard again on the extra-point try as 
he took the snap and went around 
the right end for the two-point con­
version. 

"The Blue team didn't know any· 
thing about the trick plays," said 
Faust. "It was good for them to see 
them." 

Defensive end Mike Golic was 
named the game's "Most Valuable 
Defensive Player" as he contributed 
six tackles (one for a loss) and 
deflected one pass. 

• • . Award 
continued/rom page 20 

also scored more, rebounded more, assisted more, and played more. 
Last year, all his efforts earned him a I 0-1 7 effort. This year, however, he received some help and led the team to an NIT bid. His efforts have not gone unnoticed, however, and 
John Paxson's name will be heard in June when the NBA draft is held. 
The other first place votes went to Bjork, Harstrom, and the third All­American, Steve Dziabis. Bjork was the hockey team's leading scorer in its last year. He played in the Merican Hockey Coaches' All-Star game and scored a goal and had two 
assists. 
Harstrom was the national epee champion, leading Mike DeCicco's squad to a No. 2 ranking in the country. Dziabis was a track All­American, who holds the tenth best time in the world in the 500-meter 
run. 

1.... 

The Observer Commencement Issue, 1983 -page 1 7 
Despite poor year 
Baseball team goes to tournament 
MCC Championships 
./ 

By MIKE SULLIVAN Gallo. "We had a real tough dropped many close games in which AssistantSports Editor schedule . . . maybe a little too the errors played a large part. Even tough." the worst loss of the year, a 17-4 
May 20, 21, 22 
If anyone had any doubts about Bad weather complicated the thrashing at the hands of Western the wisdom of the athletic depart­problem as the many young players Michigan, was decided by a dropped 
at Oklahoma City, Ok. 
ment when it joined the Midwestern on the team did not get the playing pop-tly that led to an avalance of un­City Conference in baseball, golf, time early in the year that they earned runs. and three other sports, he now has needed. However. the future still looks his proof that it was a wise move. "We had a lot of problems with bright for Gallo's team. Despite 
Oral Roberts vs. Notre Dame 
The Notre Dame baseball team, the rain, but so did everyone else," losing starting pitchers Bill Matre 
Detroit vs. to be announced 
plagued by rainouts and inconsis­admits Gallo. "Our problem was that and Steve Whitmyer. who, Gallo tency all season long, currently it rained at the wrong times for us. thinks, will be drafted by the pros, holds a poor 17-26 record and has We won eight of nine games earlier and captain and most valuable lost 14 of its last 20 games, but will in the year, then we had rain player, Rick Chryst, there is a strong be playing in the conference tourna­problems and ended up losing nine nucleus that will return next year 
Tournament is double elimination 
ment on May 20-22. ofour next ten." and the year after. "I guess you could call it poetic The Irish inexperience showed it­Gallo just hopes that his team will 
Championship game -Sun., May 22 
justice," says Irish coach Larry Gallo. self at many points in the season in learn that losing is not fun. "In the last few years, we've had real­the form of physical and mental er­"If they don't learn from this year, ly good seasons and haven't gone rors. They proved costly as the team when will they learn?" 
anywhere. Now. we have a bad year and we go to a tournament." 
Gallo's squad reached the tourna­ment on the basis ofits second-place tlnish behind Detroit in the North­ern Division of the conference. By taking three offour from Xavier ear­lier in the season, and sweeping three from Butler a couple of weeks ago, Notre Dame earned the right to take on Oral Roberts. the tlfth­ranked team in the country. in the first round ofthe double elimination tourney. Detroit. who 11nished just ahead of the Irish in the division as it won three of the four game~ be­tween the schools, will abo join the tleld. The final team has yet to be determined. 
Oral Roberts i~ the easy favorite and is not exactly the team that a floundering Notre Dame squad would like to play, but (iallo is not very worried. 
"The main thing for us to do is to just have fun," he says. "If there is any kid that isn't excited about going down there (to Oklahoma City. Ok., the site of the championship). there's something wrong with him. 
"Oral Roberts is a great, great team. and man for man we don't match up with them, but if we get some breaks or somebody has a good game, you never know ...." 
The tournament will cap offa very disappointing year for the Irish. Despite a good 7-4 MCC record, the team failed to win 20 games for the tlrst time in live years. The major reason was the upgraded schedule that featured two of the top ten teams in the country. 
"I'd put our schedule up against any other team in the Midwest," says 
• • • NSC 
continuedfrom page 20 
favorites to win the conferc::nce 
championship which requires them 
to win the conference tournament at the end ofthe year. Evansville may be the strongest of the rest, but nei-. ther coach knows much about the other teams. Unfortunately, there will probably not be an NCAA automatic bid in the near future, so 
Notre Dame will have to content it­
self with a conference champion­
ship. 
Possibly the most important benefit that the volleyball team will gain from the conference is a better schedule. Unlike the basketball team, which had to give up some good games to fit league teams into the schedule, the volleyball squad was able to improve its schedule ­especially at the end of the season. 
"The conference helps to give direction to our schedule," explains Vanslager. "At least we now have a major tournament at the end of the year and it gives us something to shoot for. We'll now have some kind ofa wrapup to the season." 
Good friends will help you study angles when all you can think about is curves. 
It didn't take a genius to tell your mind wasn't on your studies. But it did take a couple of smart roomies to do somefhing about it. 
So out came the calculators. And the doughnuts. And they started drilling you until you knew physics as well as 
you know yourself. When it was all over. you 
showed them that there was one more thing you knew something about-gratitude. 
Tonight, let it be L()wenbrau. 
Lowenbrau. Here's to good friends. 
c 1983 Beer Brewed 1n US A by Mtller Brev ,gCo. Mtlwaukee. WI 

Commencement Issue, 1983-page 18 
The Top Ten Sports Stories of 1982-83 
Volleyball comes ofage 
Going into the 1982 season, the volleyball team hoped to improve on 3-19 and I7-25 records that it had posted in its first two varsity seasons. However, a jump up to Division I seemed to make this hope far-fetched. That is, until powerful Michigan State visited the ACC Pit. Led by two hot-shot freshmen, the Irish women moved out to a quick 2-0 lead in the best-of-five series. MSU fought back, evening the scor~ at 2-2, but Notre Dame ended the comeback with a I 5-2 rout to defeat the defending Big Ten champions. The victory launched the team to an impressive 25-9 record. 
COMPL~ARY~......~ 
__,
INSIDE: I iii§ .. ·-­

Irish glow in the dark 

Months before the return game with Big Ten power­house Michigan, Sept. 18, I982 was down as a red-letter day in Notre Dame football history. Musco's lights rolled onto the campus to illuminate Notre Dame's first night football game. After screening the review of Irish football legendary, Wake Up theEchoes, a fired-up Irish team beat the Wolverines, 23-I7. Notre Dame held UM to 4I yards on the ground as ND gained 278, headed by Larry Moriarty's II6. In the game, beamed nationally by ABC, Notre Dame won its first national TV game since 1979. "I think we gave ABC its money's worth," said Gerry Faust. "We woke up the echoes a little bit tonight." 
Irish come home again 
"Win or lose, the important things at Notre Dame never change," wrote Craig Chval in The Observer of Thursday, Sept. 23. He was talking about the little game that would highlight the rowdy day before the Michigan night game. Those who took a break in their partying to take a look inside the ACC saw 18 former Notre Dame stars play an exhibition game for the benefit of the Logan Center. In between the magic provided by Dwight "The Ice Man" Clay, Gary Brokaw, john Shumate, Adrian Dantley, Dave Batton, Kelly Tripucka, et al. . . . not to mention Austin Carr, there was the "moment" of the afternoon. As Chval writes, "The ludience let loose with a prolonged standing ovation, while the Notre Dame players, reappearing on the court to start the second half, mingled with their thrilled counterparts from the Logan Center. If there was a dry eye in the house, it belonged to someone who had the poor judgement to be in the restroom at the time." 

Minor sports move to MCC 
On Thursday, Oct. 14, Athletic Director Gene Cor­rigan announced a major change for Notre Dame ath­letics: five minor sports were going to play in the framework of the Midwestern City Conference. Baseball, golf, tennis, cross-country and track were set to join the conference as a means of obtaining bids to NCAA championships, which had been almost un­reachable for these programs. This year, the track team won the MCC title behind All-American Steve Dziabis and tennis placed third while baseball is completing its conference schedule. Fellow conference members are Oral Roberts, Butler, Evansville, St. Louis, Oklahoma City, Loyola and Detroit. 
"I" I '
I 

Faust, ND become unglued 
After the Michigan win, Notre Dame had rolled out to a 4-0 start, but a last-second loss against Arizona and a tie at Oregon boded ill for the rest of the season. After the Oregon tie, in which Notre Dame's offense moved only in fits and starts, and criticism coming in from many corners, Faust said "We were doing real well until the writers and fans put it into the kids' minds that they had scored only so many points or gained so many yards. That started the kids wondering." The national stir got as far as some of the country's major newspapers, and the S.S. Notre Dame, 5-1-I, was sailing into the seas of No. I Pittsburgh on an unsteady keel in choppy seas. 
Isn't it a Pitt-y? 
After the controversial October, Notre Dame was going to have its hands full with No. 1 Pittsburgh in the first week ofNovember. The Irish, reminded by Faust of their great upsets ofthe past responded with a resound­ing 31-16 win over the undefeated Panthers, who were m:ver the same team after the beating. The keys were big plays by joe Howard, who was on the receiving end ofa 54-yard flea-flicker that put Notre Dame ahead, and Allen Pinkett, whose 76-yard touchdown run put it away. l\lotre Dame was 6-1-1 and back in the major bowl picture ... but Penn State, Air Force and USC beat it in 
~f.~~;_~~~~~=;;~·:~-·. three consecutive weeks to leave the Irish home for 
::;::.:·:::.:...:·.:· .-.

Christmas-and New Year's-with a 6-4-I record. 
-~...·--···· -.

........~~~-~~..~~.~--~-~-~-~~~--­
McNama,.ll sbiJtes, ND gains split 
Sports Kentucky returns to ND ...at last! 
Wiklcas'tirslvi!.ilWtCt 19,ntw:-xin~ _w _~~'rebnrnln'h 

Kentucky returns ... 'The Week' begins 
Thirty-three years before, a basketball team from the University of Kentucky came to Notre Dame, Ind., to play the Irish. A rowdy, boisterous crowd shouted Adolph Rupp and the Wildcats to a 64-51 upset loss in the soon-to-be destroyed Old Fieldhouse, and UK never returned to ND ... until Dec. 1 of 1982, that is. The No. w.-.roFrowlomHJJJINortb ;::=-:-..::.:.~:: ··-·--·-3 Wildcats played Notre Dame at the ACC to begin a suicidal week for Digger Phelps' freshman-dominated
-----~:;~~~ Irish five. Notre Dame lost to Kentucky, despite the rowdiness of "Freedom Hall North." In ND's next two games, it almost defeated arch-rival UCLA, losing on a last-second finger roll by Ralph Jackson, and was taught a lesson in Fundamental Basketball I 0 I by Bob Knight's Indiana Hoosiers. "The Week," however, steeled the Irish for a I9-win comeback season and a return to post­season play. 
_ Iii 
R.I.P. Notre Dame hockey 
In january, the Notre Dame hockey program was 
~--~--.. -
Nom o.m.hockeylowered to club status, effective at the end of the 1982-klses vanily status 83 season. Cited as reason for the action was severe financial losses and lack of student support. "This is a painful day for me," said Corrigan at the press con­ference which spelled the end. Corrigan had never had such a task in his career in the athletic administration. The announcement started two months of nostalgia ­and anger. The Irish hockey team went out with a pair of wins over Illinois-Chicago, and a bittersweet bow in the CCHA playoffs at Bowling Green. The hockey team, which may return at the Division III level in 1984-85, was dropped from the varsity ranks so that the talented Irish like Brent Chapman and Sean Regan, et al., could transfer if they wished. In March, however, of the 26 varsity players, only five chose to leave ND. 
A glimpse ofthe future 
In February, the No. I women's basketball team from Louisina Tech arrived at Notre Dame to give the Irish women a lesson in big-time women's athletics. Mary DiStanislao's team did succumb, BI-39, but learned what it would take to play with the best. More impor­tantly, however, was the fact that the Notre Dame campus was taken by the game, and about I,OOO stu­dents showed up along with over 3,000 ticket-holders. In all, it seemed a page out of2001 or some other piece of science fiction. But, DiStanislao hopes that stars like Trena Keys, the dynamic forward who scored 14 points in 20 minutes against the Techsters, will lead ND to places like the NCAA Tournment in the near future. And soon, the team will hve a clear path to the title -the North Star Confererence, which was formed this week. 
Paxson says goodbye 
One of the greatest careers in Notre Dame athletic history ended Mar. 1I as the Irish whipped Northern Iowa, 75-5I, behind Tim Andree's 24 points and All­American john Paxson's 25. The "moment" was reserved for the post-game speeches by the outgoing seniors. Andree played his finest game and was beaming asjohn Paxson expressed his feeling for the community he had helped gain even more respect. "These Jour years have been the greatest experience I've ever had," said Paxson, "and it's all because of you." 

-~-------~-----~--------------------------------, 
=IheO~~I~=================================== 
Weekend 
Commencement Issue, 1983-page 19 
Bloom County 

I'M MARliN... CIA... 
E£RE;'5 $4-MIU.I~ 
P!JSST.' 
IN CASH ANI/ EXTRA 6R€NA~5 ... 
VNA 50\10ZA .' 



Simon 
GOOfEK GUM£/ f{fl( HEN, I W£NT T6 GoofER 6(J~[ (lCI(£, CLI/SS Of '83... NINETEEN 
f/6HT'/-T!ItE£ Tlfi/T 15. 
\~ 
'\ 

The Daily Crossword 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
FINE fL!Ic£, Gcd'£1? Gti#IE ... N!V£1?. CfXIU) IUT I1V fllt;ER 0/V WIII/T !11/PE IT 'SIC/I /J rii'/E fl/1(£ "' zz..z ... N£VE.(' COUtO.,, 
\ (/{ 
~) 
ACROSS 1 Painter Winslow­6 Kind of 
party 10 Flatboat 14 Love, in 
Lucca 15 Japanese 
native 16 Folk dance 17 Belief 18 Shone 
faintly 20 Figure 22 Parish 
official 23 Actor of a kind 
24 Disabled 25 Fingerboard ridge 
27 Howacat burglar goes 
33 Short 
letter 34 Dragnet 35 lroquoian 
Indian 36 Calendar abbr. 
37 Period 
38 Strike violently 
39 Captain of fiction 41 Proportion 43 Languish 44 Involving ESP 
46 Solar disk god 47 Tax 
48 Annapolis school letters 
50 Maintain 
53 A ssortmen t 
of colors 
56 Knight 
58 Tyke 
60 Operatic 
heroine 61 -vital 62 Perfume 
ritually 63 Noted 
daredevil 64 Libertine 65 Pipeor 
mouth 


DOWN neighbor1 Magician's 40 Torment 
prop 
2 Presage 41 Freight 3 Very great train 4 Recluse 
42 Eye: comb.

5 Desert form
shrub 6 Chronicle 
43 African 

7 Cultivate cat 
8 Black 
45 Aqua-

cuckoo 9 Candy of 49 Painting on 
a kind dry plaster 10 Encase 11 Raised rib 
50 Zenith in a fabric 
51 Knife: sl. 12 Cityon 
52 Patternedthe Oka with dots: 13 Virginia Her.

of tennis 53 Mount
19 Liquefy 21 Take It 54 "Rule easy Brittania" 24 Vacation composer paradise 
55 Lohengrin's25 Buoy bride

26 Nouveau­
28 Compact 57 Pier union 29 Topsoil letters 30 Harsh 
59 Predatory

31 Rain forest animal'splant place32 Oman's 
Campus 
Friday, May 13 
•I 
p.m. -Baseball games, Notre Dame vs. Mich­igan State (doubleheader),Jake Kline Field. 

•2 
p.m. -Pinning Ceremony, SMC Nurses, Church of Loretto. 

•4 
p.m. -Baccalaureate Mass, SMC, Angela Ath· letic Facility. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Lawn Concert, University Concert Band, Administration Building Mall. 

Saturday, May 14 

•10 
a.m. -Commissioning Ceremony, for ROTC graduates, South Dome, ACC. 

•10:30 
a.m. -SMC Commencement, Court of LeMans (In case of rain, Angela Athletic Facility. 

•II
:30 a.m. -Phi Beta Kappa Installation, Memorial Library Auditorium. 

•2 
p.m. -University Reception, by Officers of the University, Center for Continuing Education, Families of the graduates are cordially invited. 

•4 
p.m. -Assembly, for the Academic Proces­sion, ACC. 

•4:20 
p.m.-Academic Procession begins.

•s 
p.m. -ND Baccalaureate Mass, ACC, South Dome. 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "The Women Soldiers," Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Chinese Association. 

•7 
p.m. -Cocktail Party and Buffet Supper, ACC, North Dome, Tickets are required. 

•9 
p.m. -Concert, University of Notre Dame Glee Club, Stepan Center. 

Sunday, May 15 

•9 
a.m. -·Brunch, North and South Dining Halls, Tickets are required. 

•10 
a.m. -Diploma Ceremony, for ND MBA students, Library Auditorium. 

•I 
p.m. -Distribution of Bachelor's and Mas­ter's Diplomas, ACC, North Dome. 

•1:35 
p.m. -Academic Procession Begins, ACC, North Dome. 


·­

•2:30 
p.m. -ND Commencement and Confer­ring ofDegrees, ACC, South Dome. 

•s 
p.m. -Law School Diploma Ceremony, Sacred Heart Church. 


The Far Side 

~-----------------------------------T·-----~---···········--··············--------~ 
I 
I
Ihe Obsen!er.__ I I I I 
Don't leave Dome without it 
There's one Notre Dame tradition that doesn't have to end with the conferring of degrees on Sunday ... 
The Observer. 

Yes, you can keep in touch with your alma mater by subscribing now! Take advantage of this special rate for I 1983 graduates: $20 for the entire academic year (a · I 
~ 
20 percent savings). I 
,.__ 1• Ctty. ............................._.......... stat<;. .,.................... z·tp ........... ~."::. 
I . ~ ­
L----------------------------~------~---·•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
'83 Grads I :vtakt" checks payable to: The Observer I I 
I

P.O. BoxQ
and mail to: I Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $20 for two semesters of The Observer 
(regular subscription fee is $25) D Enclosed is $15 for one semester of The Observer 
Name....................................................................................... . 
Address.................................................................................... 
Women become latest to join conference 
By MIKE RICCARDI program can't make postseas'?n SportsEditor play." The Irish women's basketball 
Four Notre Dame women's sports schedule was thrown upside down will have the same opportunity as by the conference, and a few at­many Irish men's teams received tractive matches have fallen this past year as the University has through. However, next year's Irish become a charter member of what schedule is tough, as seven NCAA will be called the North Star Con­tournament participants appear on ference. the ledger. Moreover, Notre Dame 
The Irish women will participate must face national runner-up in basketball, volleyball, swimming, Louisiana Tech in Ruston on Jan. 12, and tennis. Other conference char­1984. ter members who will begin play In conference play, the Irish are this fall are DePaul University, the definitely capable of doing quite University of Detroit, the University well. Butler and Dayton have of Evansville, Loyola University, applied for Division I membership, 
Xavier University, Butler University, but won't receive it until the fall of 
and the llniversity of Dayton. 1984. Among the remaining con­
The announcement Monday was ference foes, Notre Dame defeated 
the culmination of a year of talks DePaul, Detroit, and Loyola last year. 
spearheaded by DePaul. Dayton, and The Irish women did not lose to a 
Notre Dame's Athletic Director North Star team last season. 
Gene Corrigan and retiring As­"We will only play I 0 conference 
sociate Athletic Director Col. John games, and that leaves us with a lot 
Stephens. ofgood matchups on the schedule," 
The North Star Conference will says DiStanislao. "Our major com­feature a season-endin3 volleyball petition in the conference will come tournament after a season-long from -DePaul, which has recruited a round-robin. conference tourna­6-4 center. They should be tough. ments in tennis and swimming, and a It'll be a pretty competitive league." double round-robin in basketball -The competition will not be as with no conference tournament to tough for the fast-improving vol­determine the champion in that leyball team, but coaches Sandy sport. Vanslager and Dan Anderson are just 
Basketball coach Mary DiStanislao happy to be playing Division I teams 
was pleased by the fact that the because there are so few in the Mid­
North Star will not send her team west. 
through the conference tourney "It (joining the NSC) will be good 
wringer, but hopes that the NSC will for us because they're requiring all 
receive an automatic bid to the of the schools to be Division I by 
NCAA tournament in 1984-85. August, 1985," says Vanslager. "At 
"I don't want to ply any team least we'll be playing a higher level 
three times in one season," said DiS­of competition. It will guarantee us 
tanislao. "I think a double round­seven games of Division I competi­
robin is a fair way to determine the tion which should be pretty fair 
champion. competition." 
"The conference offers us a great The Irish will have to be one ofthe 
hedge aginst the belief that schoob 
See NSC, page 17 

that have an essentially independent 
The Ub~rver/Paul Citarelli 
BlairKiel takes a snap during the annualBlue­Blue to a 33-21 win (Jller the Gold. His perfor­Goldgame that was played on Aprii]O. Kiel com­mance bodes well for the upcoming season. See pleted 9 ofhis I 0 passes for 215 yards to lead the Louie Somogyi's story• below. 
Blue-Gold game 
Kiel finishes off great spring drills 
year career, credits his success to
By LOUIE SOMOGYI we'll be okay this year," said Faust. 
the return of second year quarter­
Sports Writer "We feel that he came into his own 
hack coach Ron Hudson (a former 
last year in the Pitt game before he 
pupil of San Francisco 49ers Head
Highlighted by a spectacular pas­wa~ injured and had to sit out against sing exhibition by quarterback Blair Penn State and Air Force. I told him
Coach, Bill Walsh) for giving him Kiel, the first unit Blue squad better stability this year. II udson 
that he has to play the whole season defeated the White squad, .B-21', at also will be the new offensive coor­for us next year. Notre Dame stadium on April 30. "We're a better offensive team
dinator this fall. Kiel was 9-for-1 0 for 21 5-yards "It's like night and day to what I 
than last year," continued Faust. 
and threw for one touchdown to cap have felt like in the past," said Kiel. "I 
"The line is better since there is off a brilliant overall spring perfor­have had the same system for a year, more cohesiveness. Defensively mance that I t ed him to be named the and now for the first time so it's just a we're also improved , but we're not 
team's "Most Improved Player" this matter of refining and executing." very deep in spots. Overall, we were 
Head Coach Gerry Faust has been
spring and the game's "Most very pleased with this spring. Our in­
extremely impressed with Kiel, but
Valuable Offensive Player." tensity was especially great."remained somewhat low key about
The senior quarterback, who has "We're a lot more intense," Kiel had three different quarterback 
his performance. "!f he w,.,W's like he did today, 
SeePASSING, page 16

coaches and systems in his three 
Someone new, someone old as Athletes of Year 
A familiar name, Paxson, wins Krause Award again 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 

He's6-2. He's a senior. He's from Kettering, Ohio. He's won another award. It should come as no surprise, but John Paxson has won the third 
annual Edward 'Moose' Krause Award for the Notre Dame Male Ath­lete of the Year for 1982-83. 
It is the second consecutive year that the basketball star has been given the award, which is presented by The Observer sports staff. Paxson picked up 12 of the 1' first-place votes and 220 points in all to easily outdistance hockey All-American Kirt Bjork and fencing champion Ola Harstrom. 
The All-American guard finished yet another tine season this year, averaging almost 18 points a game and leading the team in almost every statistical category for the second straight year. He was once again named the team's Most Valuable Player, and was honored as a first-team academic All-American. 
It was more than these impressive credentials that earned Paxson the award, however. He,probably more so than just about anyone associated with the school, gives Notre Dame a good name. A stand­out student, a standout student, and a standout person, Paxson as­sociates "class" with Notre Dame. 
The award, as well as his degree, caps off an interesting career at Notre Dame for Paxson. In his first two years, he was the playmaker of the team, getting the ball to the likes of Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge, and TracyJack~on. 
However, after these th~ee graduated together, Paxson was left with the job of carrying the team. He changed his style of play, be­cause the team needed someone to take charge. He changed to a big shooter, tossing up many more shots than in his first two years. He 
See AWARD, page 16 


Casey puts Saint rvlary's sports program on map 
By MIKE.RIC~ARDI 
Sport!" Editor 

She's an A:I-American. She's also an academic All-American. And she's been selected by the sports staff ofTb.e Observer as the 
winner ofthe third annual Edward W. "Moose" Krause Award as the 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Athlete of the Year. Is this;~ female John Paxson? In a way, says her coach. "Like Paxson, she's not the best player in the natio;l," says Scott 
rrces, ·'but she means so much to this team. She's very popular, she's the team leader, and she's active in the communitv." 
However, swimmer Gail Casey is much more th;n a distaff version ofthe heralded Irish guard. As the first winner ofthe "Moose" Award from Saint Mary's, she's a symbol to the Belles' cxpan~ing athletic program. 
However, Scott Trees, who coached eight Saint Mary's swimmers to All-America selections, and whose Belles took home four ofthe 18 acaoemic All-America positions at the NatiOnal Association of Inter­collegiate Athletics national meet in March, says that Casey is more than just a symbol to Saint Mary's athktics. 
"There's a lot of pressure on her because she holds the future of Saint Mary's sports," he says. "Her performance is breaking the stereotype of the Saint Mary's athlete. She's proving that the Saint Mary's athlete isn't a 'Buffy,' 'Missy,' or 'Muffy,' and that it's not the case ofwhen the going gets tough, Saint Mary's goes." 
Casey showed her toughness this past season, swimming with per­sistent knee trouble all winter, and is now on crutches after post­season surgery on the knee. 
"She missed three weeks in mid-season," says Trees. "She was grounded by the doctor and not allowed to practice. When she couldn't practice, she went to the weight room. The more she 
See VALUABLE, page 14 





