• Olympic mess -page 10 

VOL XVII, NO. 91 the independent ~tmknt ncw~paper ~erving notre dame and ~aint mary·~ TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1983 
Increases expected in student financial aid 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN quality students," Russo said. Bett<:r StaffReporter financial aid packages will most like­ly mean a better acc<:ptence rate by 
Ronald Rt:agan in particular and students who in the past could not Washington, D.C. in g<:n<:ral hav<: afford the cost of a Notre Dam<: mad<: Dir<:ctor of Financial Aid Joe 
<:ducation. Russo's job som<:what unpleasant 
Th<: Office of Developm<:nt will 
for th<: past thre<: years. play an important rok in incr<:asing the tinancial aid <:ndowm<:nt. Russo has already noted an incr<:as<: in the dforts of the devdopm<:nt oftk<:, which has mad<: raising money for tinancial aid on<: of its top prioriti<:s, if not the top priority.
But with th<: adv<:nt of th<: PACE r<:port, Russo now has something 
The PACE report calls for meeting that mak<:s th<: futur<: look very 
the thr<:efold increase in financial <:ncouraging. 
aid endowm<:nt in seven vears, and Russo thinks that ther<: is a"good pos­
Tht: PACE rt:port calls for a sibility of receiving pkdges for th<:thr<:dold increase in the financial money.
aid <:ndowm<:nt to S81 million by The PACE report furth<:r recom­1990. With thb commitment from m<:nds that the financial aid officeth<: l'niversity administration, Russo continue to us<: only inter<:st ear­anticipate3 C\:otre Dame will b<: bet­
nings from th<: endowment when
ter abk to deal with tlux<:s in ted<:ral distributing funds. Thus, until th<:aid programs, which account for a tinancial aid oftice r<:c<:ives the ac­
larg<: portion of th<: aid th<: l!niv<:r­Teach-In sponsored by the Tu•o-Campus Freeze 
tual mont:)', it cannot provid<: any
sity distribut<:s to stud<:nts. Russo Coaliton last night. (Photo by Lucian Niemeyftr).
additional aid. 
also exp<:cts to providt: mort: Wh<:n more monev does in fact 
scholarship assistance for more stu­become availabk, an incr<:ase in the dents in th<: futur<:. 
Saint Mary's elections 
numb<:r of ;'llotre Dame Scholars 
Russo, however, admits that the 
may ensu<:. The Notre Dam<: Scholar "n<:xt coupk ofy<:ars will still be dif­
program, which id<:ntities the top ficult for students until <:arnings entering stud<:nts of a freshman 


Candidates state platformS 
from th<: expected endowment in­
class, dt:termines to a larg<: <:xtent cr<:ase come in." Also, he ack­wheth<:r a student will receive By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI series will continue tomorrow with the .\1arthaJones, s<:cretary, on one tick­nowledges that there will "always be scholarship money. If a student is 
Campus Campaign Reporter candidates for Sophomore Class of­et. a need for ft:deral money." not named a Notre Dame Scholar, it 
ficers. 
Another ticket includ<:s: Kat_ieThe expect<:d rise in the financial is difficult for that student to recdv<: 
Editor's note: The following is the Baisley, president, Cindy Kimball,
aid endowment will probably help University scholarship money 
second ofa three-part series describing Improving relations with Notre vice-president, Patty Rickert,
the recruitment of more top stu­regardless of the student's colleg<: 
the candidates for Saint Marys class of­Dame women, sponsoring more An treasurer, and Meg Linnen.
dents for the Cniversity. The performance. Some awards art: availability of more money will ficers. Today's segment profiles can­Tostal t:vents and r<:-organizing secr<:tary.
see PACE, page 3
"allow us to continue to attract didates for junior Class officers. The Junior Mothers' Weekend are issues Michele Manion, president, the Junior Class officers art: promot­Maureen Karnatz, vice-president, ing in their campaigns. 
Patty Nolan, treasurer, and Janet'Counseline' Saas, secretary, make up th<: third Campus , tick<:t. 
Raising class spirit is for<:most onTelephone tapes inform callers * Campaign '83 Hageman's platform. "Students need to tak<: advantage of the oppor­Th<: three tickets running for tunities they have at Saint Mary's,"
By KATHLEEN DOYLE day at '-1 p.m. and will continue on assistanc<:. Tap<:s are from four to 12 Assistant News Editor regular basis Monday through minut<:s long. offic<: are: Cara Hageman, president, Hageman said. Thursday from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. "This is not a hotline," Michael Michelle Lopez, vice-president, 
see TICKETS, page 4
Dial 239-7793 and list<:n to one of Individuals call and give the Mond, acting director oft C&PSC t:x­Mary Ann Potter. treasur<:r, and 30 tapes covering a variety of stu­operator th<: number or name of the plained. "Th<: operator will not b<: dent conc<:rns! tape they want to hear. In gent:raL able to answ<:r questions. However. 
Counseline is a new confidenrial, each tape will discu~s one particular if th<: calkr net:ds immediatt: assis­completdy anonymous telephon<: issue or problem. It will detine or ex­tance, the operator will refer him to 

Code reflects laws 
s<:rvic<: offered by the Counseling plain the problem, make sugges­anoth<:r source." and Psychological S<:rvices C<:nter. tions, and direct the calkr to other Oth<:r campuses throughout the It is scheduled to begin this W t:dn<:s-sources for furth<:r information or country ofter tekphone servic<:s 
similar to Counseline. The C&PSC 

already existing 
has used as a model the program at the Universitv of Texas. All of the 
'vatican I because the Church's tapes which the Notre Dame service 
Editor's note: Tbis is the secondpart 
of a two-part series on the revised legislative activity was in con­will ofter were developed there. 
siderable confusion, according to "We feel this s<:rvice can be ofreal 
Code ofCanon Law. 
FatherJohn Alesandro, chancellor of value to the Notr<: Dame com­
tht: Dioc<:se of Rockville C<:nter • 

munity," Mond said. "We feel we 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE
should try it on an <:xperimental 
News Editor
basis to set: if it is us<:ful. Based on the results at the l'niv<:rsitv ofTexas, we think it will bt:." -Pope John Paul II signed a new 


"The advantage to this syst<:m is Code of Canon Law two weeks ago, that the caller can listen to the tap<: but no one's expecting the revis<:d and he assur<:d of ahsolute Church law to send the average anonymity," said Linda Eder Hof­Catholic dashing back to Sunday fman, administrativ<: coordinator at school. 
On the same day in I9'i9 that C&PSC. "The callvr do<:s not <:ven That's probably because the cod<: Pope John XXlll an01ounced his in­give his nam<:.At pr<:sent, only one hasn't created any changes; it tention to convene what would tekphone line is in op<:ration. If the 
retlects what's already occurred. become known as Vatican II, he also 
lin<: is busy, the the caller is urg<:d 
"Peopk won't suddenly pick up asked for the tirst official revision of 
try again." ·· 

th<: cod<: and say, 'Oh my gosh, look the laws governing the structures of
Mond said that the tap<:s are 
what we can do now," Father the Western C/lurch.
designt:d for telephone usage and 
Richard McBrien, chairman ofNotre Some specular<: that PopeJohn an­
· therdor<: in no way "off<:r the tina! 
Dame's theology department, said ticipated the major conciliarword on a topic." 
last week. "The things in the r<:vised reforms in Church structures and
Somt: of th<: tape topics and their 
code that could make a difkrence expected that a revised code would
corresponding numbers are: Coping 
have already happened . since be n<:cessary to document the
with Stress (38 ), Relaxation Ex­
Vatican II. The code does not break changes. In fact, Pope Paul VI, who
ercises ( 3 7 ), How to Cope with a 
new ground, it codifies." as~umed the task of revision at his
Broken Relationship (83 ), How to 
The revist:d Code ofCanon Law is, predecessor's death, said in 196'i

Dt:al with Loneliness ( 32), and How 
however, only the second ofits kind. that the code "umst be accom­
to Dt:al with Depression ( 4 32 ). Currently Counseline will run on The tirst official codified set of modated to a new way of thinking 
Church law was completed in 191 7 
see TELEPHONE, page 3 see CANON, page 4
as a result ofrecommendations from 





ews Brie/§ 
lh The ( )hserz•er and The AssociatedPress 

Today is election day. Notre Dame students will vote for student body president and vice-president as well as student senators. Two referenda also appear on the ballot, one proposing a unilateral arms freeze and the other affirming to continue the campus boycott of Campbell's products. Voting will occur in the dorms from 1 1 a.m. to 1:;30 p.m. and '!:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Off. Campus undergraduate students may vote in La Fortune Student Center from 11 a.m. to 4:15p.m. -The Obseruer 
Faculty and graduate student voting on the two referenda will take place today in LaFortune Student Center Lobby from 11 a.m.--± pm. All administrative Staff, whose names ap· pear in the directory, are also eligible to vote. This is an experimen­tal vote to determine the interest level of the entire Notre Dame community on campus issues. Election procedures currently in use allow only for an undergraduate vote. Today's experimental vote could possibly lead to an expanded Notre Dame community-wide vote. The experiment is being conducted by the Student Activities Office. -The Obserz1er 
Two student chemical engineers, at Notre Dame, Marisa Graziano and Amy Weyers, both freshmen, are the recipients of Sl,OOO Westinghouse Bertha Lamme Scholarship administered by the Society ofWomen Engineers this year. SWE is a professional, non-profit educational service organization ofgraduate engineers and men and women with equivalent engineering ex­perience. As part of its national educational activities, SWE adminis­ters approximately 25 scholarships annually to women majoring in engineering at an accredited college. The Westinghouse Bertha Lamme Scholarships, first awarded in 1973, are for entering fresh­men women to attract them to the field of engineering. They are supported by a grant from the Westinghouse Educational Founda­tion and are in memory of the first woman engineer employed by Westinghouse. Graziano and Weyers received two of the four fresh­men scholarships. Both were valedictorians of their high school classes. -The Observer 
Model training procedures for psychologists working with the elderly are detailed in a new book coedited by a Notre Dame gerontologist and published by the American Psycho­logical Association. EntitledPsychology and the OlderAdult: Chal­lengesfor Training in the 1980s, the book outlines recommended educational developments and training programs proposed during the five-day Conference on Training Psychologistsfor Work in Aging in Boulder, Colo. in june 1981. Its editors are john Santos, professor of psychology and director of Notre Dame's program in Geron­tological Education, Research and Services, and Gary VandenBos, director of Policy Studies for the American Psychological Associa­tion. Santos said the book has been distributed to training programs, state agencies on aging, university psychology departments and community mental health centers throughout the country. "The book outlines what we think should be done and how it should be done, as recommendations grew from the conference meetings," Santos said. -The Observer 
Senator Richard E. Lugar, (R-Ind.) 
recently announced that he has hired Notre Dame graduate Ann McKinney ofZionsville to fill a position as staff assistant in his Wash­ington office. McKinney, 22, earned a a degree in government and foreign language. She served as an intern in Lugar's office during the summer of 1981. She is also the daughter oflndiana Pacer coachjack McKinney. "I'm positive that Ann McKinney will make a fine addi­tion to my Washington staff," Lugar said. "Her duties will include meeting with constituents who visit Washington or come for busi­ness. She is bright, articulate and has keen understanding ofgovern­ment, not to mention Indiana's favorite sport."-The Observer 
Indiana is more attractive to manufacturers than the five other Great Laks states, according to a national study. The study, conducted by the Chicago-based accounting firm, Alexander Grant & co., and the Conference of State Manufacturers' Association, is offered to manufacturers who are considering build­ing new facilities or moving existing ones. "It provides business with one tool that can be used as an initial step when considering locating new facilities, relocating existing facilities or consolidating existing facilities," said Selwin Price, a spokesman for Alexander Grant. Of 22 categories used to determine relative hospitality to manufacturing business, Indiana rated first in five categories and last in two when compared with the other Great Lakes states -Illinois, Ohio, Michi­gan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. Indiana was No. 1 in the region for having the lowest state and local government debt, averaging $789 per person, the lowest figure in the nation. -AP 
Becoming cloudy today during the afternoon. High in mid 20s to about 30. Cloudy and not so cold tonight. Low in low and mid 20s. Chance of snow developing tomorrow. High in upper 
20s and low 30s. -AP 
Tuesday, February 8, 1983-page 2 


Apathy, sheep, and rhetoric 
Well, it's campus election time again and the two campuses have sighed a collective yawn. Apathy has never been greater. Ask a student how he or she feels about apathy and the answer is likely to be, "Who cares?" 
So far the biggest news about this year's election is the lack of news. There is a lack oforiginal ideas on the candidates' platforms; worse, they retlect a trend in stu­dent government away from leadership into manage­ment. Rather than serving as a rallying point for student opinion, student government stays the course. 
This year's crop oftickets is a far cry from the activist tickets of years past. The platforms emphasize the mundane. In fact, many sound like consumer advocates or social directors. 
Take Tim Connolly andJim Leous. When asked about the need for a student center, they dismissed it as being five to ten years down the road. Instead,they boasted of their plans for a winter carnival. Things are sad 
Murphy have any acheive­indeed, ifwe have to rely on ments she cares to brag the top student leaders to about? 
provide our fun. The referendums should 
Liza Salvador and Mike have been major election Carlin have many popular issues. Yet they barely proposals. Such things as an sparked interest. Too many information center lead me students have dismissed to wonder what happened them as crazed liberal ideas to the Ombudsman service. to help ethnics and Wasn't answering questions migrants. their job already? VCR's in Does business have moral dorms, extended registra­as well as profitable respon­tion and library hours sound sibilities? That is the ques­nice. But are they needed? tion behind the FLOC 
And more importantly, do we need our student leaders devoting their time to such things? 
The best ofthe bunch is the Brian Callaghan and Peg­gy Prevoznik ticket. However, they leave much room for improvement. It seems as though a female in student government could work to eliminate some of the chauvinism on campus. However, when asked about her views on women's rights, Prevoznik's answer was at best luke-warm. 
On the positive side, they address issues the others didn't. They call for an investigation of the tenure process. At many universities the question of who recieves tenure is a major concern. Not many students here lose any sleep when a popular profis sent packing. Also on their platform is a possible boycott of the bookstore. Although this will have to be justified, the very idea oforganizingstudent opinion is long overdue. 
Saint Mary's students are worse off. Just like Russia, they will have one choice. At least Elaine Hocter, Lee Ann Franks, and Madeline Hoch are running. But I ques-
R v 8 k 
yan er er moes 
Managing Editor 

Inside Tuesday 

tion Hocter's statement that the lack of opponents is because "everyone knows we will do a good job." Rather, could it be possible that no one else cares to get involved in a job that they see as having little power or intluence? To those who are complaining about the Hocter ticket, why aren't you running? You get what you ask for. 
And what about the current student body president whom Hocter served under? Kathleen Murphy is run­ning for senior class president. Her plaform b un­derwhelming. "By senior year people know what you've done." Doesn't 


referendum. One would ex­
pect opinion on this to be 
sharply divided. Unfor­tunately, except for those actively involved, the debate has been rather murky. 
The Two-Campus Freeze Coalition shows what can happen when students work together to achieve a goal. They have organized effectively and stand a good chance of winning. Several people have protested The Obserz,er's endorsement of the referendum. My ques­tion is, "What else have you done to oppose it?" A majority of the people at the freeze debate were sup­porters. The lone voice speaking against the referen­dum was Mark Lynch. Although) disagree with him, I admire his willingness to take a stand on something he believed in. 
We are all the losers in the vicious circle of apathy. We must have leaders in student government willing to work to ignite student opinion. The student body must care enough to take an interest. Having shortsided views is only being narrow-minded. Besides, as an alumnus, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will follow you around for the rest ofyour life. 

The_Observer Design Editor . ... The ghost ofTim Neely Design Assistant .Tom-dependable type Layout Staff. .. ........................ Carole Clark Typesetters. Computer typesUim & Rab) News Editor. . ......... Kathleen Doyle Copy Editor... .. DEAD, DEAD, DEAD Dan B&T Layout .Business types Editorials Layout... ........ Opiniated types Sports Copy Editor ... ............. Quiet types ND Day Editor... . . ... ............... ) ane Panfil SMC Day Editor.... . ......... Tari Brown Typists.".... . .......... Tapping types AdDesign. ............................. Creative types Photographer.................. Flashing shutters Guest Appearances. ......... Assorted weird types, lnsta-story Scuilli, Hesswench, Slam-dzunk Dziedzic, mentally retarded System, 'Iii Tommy type and an Oakley type, and a SMALL absence  
The Observer I USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home footoall Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year($ 15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduCtiOn ng hts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556  

I'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIII 
The Thomas More Society of "otre Dame 
lnvite2s you to a IC2cture2 by 



BISHOP)OSEPH CitOWLEY 
uvatican II on the2 Layman's Role2 in the2 Profe2ssional World.. We2d. 8:15pm 115 O'Shag 
"'''''''''''""'"'"'"'"'""'"'''"'''""''''.''''''""'"'"...•••••••••••••..•••••••" 
•'IIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIOIIIIIIIOIOIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
mocK srocK mARKET I 

Tuesday, February 8, 1983 -page 3
The Observer 


Changes in elections effect i~nprove~nents 

By TONI RUTHERFORD Student involvement. according 
Campus Campaign Reporter to Hocter, has been started through the new college center on campus. The purpose ofthe center, said Hoc­
Changes have been made in the ter, is to "unify the college com­election procedures at Saint Mary's, munitees and bring students, according to Monica Gugle, election faculty, and administration togeth­commissioner. er." She plans on involving students 
Differences include the informa­through the student planning board, tional meetings that were held this which will work with student affairs year before platforms were turned to plan events for the center. in and the fact that voting will take Housing has proposed leaving place in the dorms. The purpose of rooms in Le:vtans and Holy Cross thb move was to make it easier for open for freshmen. Hocter plans on voters. collecting student feedback and 
"By having in-dorm voting, we are discussing it with the ad-hoc board hoping that the lines will be shorter, before any decisions are made. encouraging more people to vote, " Also considered were different said Gugle. "Students tend to avoid parietals according to dorm and lines in the dining hall. This way off­floor, but this was decided against. campus students can vote in "It would contribute to the segrega­LeMans, while Augusta votes in Holy tion housing is trying to overcome Cross." by leaving rooms open," said Hoc­
Similar to last year's election ter. though, is the fact that there is only Socter plans to work more closely 
Unopposed candidates running for top offices one ticket for Student Body Presi­with Saint Mary's security to imple­in the Saint Mary's. elections are Leanne Franks, dent. Last year's sole candidate was ment the ideas of the security con­
vice-presidential candidate; Elaine Hoctor, 
Kathleen Murphy. This year's can­sultant. She also wishes to increase 
didate is her running mate, Elaine the awareness ofstudents in regards Hocter. to the means available for safety. In elections 
Hocter, a junior, is the current It has been found that the Saint vice-president for student affairs. Mary's Hall Presidents' Council is She has served as vice-president of not effective. In restructuring stu­


Burke explains nervousness 
the Sophomore Class and as social dent government. Hocter plans to commissioner for the Freshman HPC, while keeping
abolish the a BY KEVIN BINGER volved more." they got back out to knocking on
Counc\1. Her involvement with representative with Notre Dame's . News Staff Had the voter turnout been high­more doors. They campaigned that implementing the new parietals sys­HPC. She would also like to make the er, Burke and Yonchak may have night and again the next day.
tem at Saint Mary's has enabled her student affairs planning board a Ifthe student body president can­won on the tlrst ballot. A candidate "People had already voted about to work with varied groups within more effective group. didates complain of exhaustion 
needs 50 percent of the vote for a four times (president, senate,

the school. She has had contact with Communication is not an active today as people start to head for the 
win to avoid a runoff between the referendums)," said Burke. "We 
polls, current President Lloyd Burke
faculty, regents, parents council, part of her campaign because she top two vote-getters. Burke and were worried that they wouldn't get alumni, and administration because did not feel it was necessary to would sympathize completely. Yonchak got 48 percent. out and vote again."
Burke and Student Body Vice
of her involvement with both ·the publicize it. "We assume that stu­"Had another 50 come Burke and Yonchak swept
out and the

President Bob Yonchak ran the same
parietals system and the new Hagger dents know that that is something voted for us it would have pushed us Tower Quad on their way to a 60
ten-day gauntlet last year and found
College Center. She was also a Saint we would do,"said Hocter. "We've over the top," said Burke. "We were percent victory. Once again they
out just what a big campus this is.
Mary's representative to the Hall really felt that the administration counting on strong off-campus sup­had to wait for a 9:30p.m. phone call
Out of 1,700 doors on campus,
Presidents' Council. was behind us, especially in parie­port. Only about 50 out of 2,000 off­to find out they had won.
Burke estimates that he and 
"I didn't handle the transition

Running with Hocter as vice­tals. Because we are a small school, campus people voted. That was
Yonchak knocked on at least 1,000. 
said Burke,

president for student affairs is soph­we work closely with the ad­disappointing." period very well,"
But because of a typo in the cam­
describing the seven-week period

omore Lee Ann Franks. Franks is the ministration and. communication is 
paign rules, they finally quit 
"Not nerve-wracking, but nerv­when he assumed the presidency

current chairperson of Sophomore not a problem." at on
campaigning noon Sunday, 
ous," is how Burke described elec­from Don Murday. "Don had been in
Parents' Weekend and is also in­Hocter also hopes to keep com­rather than at midnight. But they got 
tion day. All the candidates got a call student government for three years..volved with sophomore council. She municatioon with students open a call later that night clarifying the 
at 9:30 that night from the campaign He knew the game; I didn't. I didn't has been a leader in many commit­tht:ough newspaper coverage and deadline, and they went out and chairman giving them the results really want to seem like I was step­tees and is used to working with and newsletters. Rather than send a knocked on a few more. and announcing the runoffs ping in too soon." 
organizing clubs and groups, which calendar list of events every month, Behind those doors lay members scheduled two days thence. "We Now Burke knows the game and will be her primary duty. Hocter plans on handing out calen­of a basically disinterested student felt fairly comfortable, not cocky, he has to pave the way for a new 
The other vice-president on the dar books at the beginning of next body, Burke said. Only 43 percent of but comfortable, because of our big president. He has the two-fold job of Hocter ticket is junior Madeleine school year, with all events listed. the students voted despite, the margin." Burke-Yonchak got 16 per­wrapping up his own projects and Hoch, the brunch chairperson for readily accessible polling places. cent than Borchers-Burns.
The candidates also hope to im­more helping to make a smooth transition Junior Parents Weekend. She was prove the academic liason between This would be a terrific turnout for a Immediately after the phone call, for the next president. 
also active with Sophomore Parents' faculty and students by expanding national election, but on a college campus it's nothing to write home
Weekend and various committees. career days. Other plans include about.
She is the student representative to working with seniors on career Burke blames the disinterest on
the Pre-Law Society. development for a more structured 
• • • PACE

the limited role given to student
The general platform oftheir tick­approach to careers. Working to in­
government. "Student government
et deals with student involvement, clude more St. Mary's students in 
isn't a high visibility thing," he said. 
housing, security, restructuring stu­free university, and gathering stu­continuedfrom page 1 aid will not change. "We have to be
"It's a lot of asking and pleading.
dent government, and working with dent input to improve interest in encouraged by what was proposed,
There are a lot ofgood people here; I 
made to upperclassmen who do well
academe situations. Women's Opportunity Week. particularly how it relates to us," he
don't know why they don't get in-but they tend to be smaller, Russo said.
said. 
. Russo thinks that by the ._.nd oftheRusso was very much involved decade, the financial aid situationwith providing input into the

Kathleen Murphy 
will be "much improved." If infla­Provost's office while the PACE tion is kept to a minimum and ifreport was being formulated. He federal assistance programs remainnotes that many other needs were


Saint Mary's SBP recalls election 
relatively constant, campus-based 

future may change. He is quite hope­tlnancial aid will increase substan­By GRETCHEN PICHLER "You learn to deal with your came in and asked if the new vice· ful that the commitment to financial tially. News Staff limitations." Beth added, "you president of student affairs was in. I 
struggle to keep a comprehensive, was really excited; the whole day 
It has been nearly a year since dynamic picture ofwhat needs to be had been pretty tense." Kathleen Murphy ran for student done. It's challenging. You have to Beth remembered their first inter­body president of Saint Mary's Col­take it on as a personal challenge, view with The Observer. "The only • • • Telephone lege, and last night Kathy and her but at the same time, keep in mind open place was in the back of two vice-presidents, Elaine Hocter that you're here to work for the stu­LeMans Hall -next to the men's Volunteers are still needed and in­expressed and that priorities in the 
continuedfrom page 1 
and Beth Tighe, met to reminisce dent body." restroom' It was pretty uncom­terested persons are asked to con­
a limited schedule, which will he ex­or
about last year's election and look When asked about the platform fortable. all of us sitting in that little tact Linda Hoffman Monica 
tended if the service proves useful.
back over their first semester of they ran on, Beth said,"We have 4x6 box. Then, afer the interview McNamara at 239-.,.:H6. Anvone 
Counseline will be staffed by volun­who would like more informationoffice. been really lucky ...seeing some was over, the interviewer realized 
teers under the direction of Monica on Counseline should also call the
Although Kathleen ran un­dreams realized. Changing the parie­she had forgotten to turn on the tape an advanced
McNamara, doctoral Center.
opposed, she remembers "there was tal system was a big issue, and the recorder"' 
student in the counseling psycholo­The complete listing of availablemuch pressure that most people new library was very important, When asked why she chose not to 
gy program, and Tom Trozzolo, a tapes will be printed in tomorrow'sdidn't realize. Not only did I have to also." "This year has gone by run again, Kathleen answered. ''I'm 
graduate student in sociologv. Obsen•er. answer for myself, but I also had to tremendously fast." Elaine said. "I not running again because I felt I had explain why others weren't run­was thinking about what I've learned had my time here, and now I want to ning." Beth added,"lt was more ofan 
to do. Last year at this time, I work with my class. It's time for effort in that you had to show you wouldn't have been able to sit down someone else to fill the position. I've your flower alternative weren't ju~t sliding by." with many people and talk about my enjoyed it. but I think Elaine will do 
Looking back, the women see goals. I've really learned what I can a very good job." Beth added,"These 
how their views have changed. "You do." jobs are so much a personal reflec­Special Valentine's Day Arrangement realize that, in some ways, you have Kathy remembers election night: tion. It's good to have a different ap­been unrealistic. It is very hard to "I was very relieved. I was happy the proach, a different point ofview." Woman's: Men's: 
overcome certain things, like stu· campaign was over and I was ready "We three have worked really dent apathy."Beth said. to get started. Elaine came up with a well together." Kathleen added. "It's 
One 18" red metallic heart One 18" rainbow heart 

"However," Elaine noted,"there congratulatory flower. It was a nice been a good year be<i:ause we've 
Seven 11" pink/white latex Seven 11" red/white latex

has been a phenomenal increase touch." Elaine laughed as she taken our jobs seriously, but with a 
One box of candy One box of candy

over last year in terms ofthe number remembered hearing about her vic­bit of humor. We've laughed with of tickets running for office." tory: "1 was in the shower. Someone each other." 


The Observer Tuesday, February 8, 1983-page 4 
From Bolivia 


Barbie extradited to Paris 

Dillon Hall was the victim ofsnowball attacks by North Quad residents Sunday night. Several windows in Dillon were broken during the annual event. (Photo by Lucian Niemeyer). 
long front line in preparation for the monitored in Cyprus. offensive. But the Saudi newspaper Rafsanjani warned oil-rich con­
LEAVE THE 
AlMadina said Saturday as many as 1 servative Arab states of the Persian 

ENTERTAINMENT 
million Iranian troops had been Gulf region that have been provid­
• • • Canon 
deployed to invade Iraq's southern ing financial and other assistance to

TOUS! 

Missan province. Iraq "to refrain from further involve­
Omega Productions, Inc. is now opening their 
continuedfrom page I 

Mobile Music Division. 
proper to the Second Ecumenical

We can provide any type 
Council of the Vatican." 

of music for any type 
New ideas on ecumenical

of event. Parties are our 
thought, marriage, liturgy, the sacra­

specialty. Custom music 
ments, and the relationship of the

programming is availabl~ 
bishop to the local church

Call 684-8100 and ask 
generated at Vatican II were imple·

Susan or Brad for details. 
mented in bits and pieces through­out the 1970's, Father John Lahey,

..................................................
~ 
NO canon law professor, said Friday. The revised code, however,

Roc.co's Hair ·· 
"establishes with greater firmness 
some of Vatican ll's changes," Lahey 
said, "both in a theological outlook


LIStyling 
and in practical applications." 
"The 1983 code," McBrien said, 

531 N. Michigan St., "looks at the Church primarily as people with a need for certain rules to function as a community." But
South Bend McBrieQ and others have also criticized the revised code for not taking the full step away from

Phone 233-4957 
clericalism that Vatican II seemed to 

...................................................~ 
take. 

LANGUAGE/ INTELLIGENCE 
The Army needs lan­guage and Intelligence Trainees. The Army pro· vides excellent training, challenging assign­ments, and outstanding benefits. Many special· ities in these fields offer cash bonuses up to $4000. Ask your Army Recruiter for details.: 
call: 

SGT Hamilton 234·4187 
call collect 

ARMY, BEALL 

YOU CAN BE. 
"In spite of all the legal and con­ciliar rhetoric about the Church as a people of God," McBrien told the Canon Law Society of America in 1981, "the organizational model (of the Church) remains more monar­chial than collegial." 
For example, McBrien said that the code still has too much emphasis on the authority of the bishop, no provision for popular elections of bishops as was common in the early Church, and no limits on the tenure ofthe Pope. 
Few argue, however, that the revised code has not to some extent affirmed Vatican II's insights. There are nearly 30 percent fewer canons _in the 1983 code, a fact that Arch­"bishop John Roach, president of the .National Conference ofCatholic Bis­hops, said makes the code "a more practical, workable document than 
its predecessor." 
Roach noted several important 
changes in line with Vatican II: 
• The rights of all Christians, "particularly lay persons," have PARIS (AP) -The arrest of for­

mer Gestapo officer Klaus Barbie has 
revived painful, 40-year-old 
memories of French collaboration 
with the Nazis and stirred recrimina­
tions and conflicting accounts of 
who did what during the German 
occupation. 
Barbie, sentenced to death twice 
in absentia by po t-war French 
military courts, was expelled from 
Bolivia late Friday and flown to Lyon 
pending his trial on new charges of 
"crimes against humanity." 
The 69-year-old Barbie, who served as the Lyon Gestapo chief in 1942-44, is alleged to have executed 4,000 people, tortured thousands, deported 7,500 French Jews to Nazi ·concentratio!l camps and personally tortured and killed French Resis­
tance heroJean Moulin. 
Last weekend there was a uniform chorus of condemnation of Barbie by aging French resistance fighters, Jews, and past and present govern­ment officials. 
Yesterday some discordant notes began to sound and several newspapers speculated that not everyone will be pleased if Barbie tells all he knows. 
The years of the German occupa· tion -1940-44 -arc cmbarassing and painful to many of the French. 
When France fell to Germany in May 1940, the war-time government based in Vichy settled upon a policy ofcollaboration with Germany. 
Under Marshall Phillip Pt:tain, the government set out to make France a "favored province" of Germany. French revenues were used to sup· port the Third Reich and its occupa­tion forces. 
In four years, 75,000 French Jews were deported to Nazi death camps. Most never returned. 
French lawyer Serge Klarsfdd, who with his wife, Beare, hunt t ed down and located Barbie in Bolivia in 1971, suggested the "heroes of the Resistance" did little to hdp ex· tradite Barbie in the 12 years it has taken to get him back on French soil. 
He also said the reason France was interested in Barbie had less to do with the murder ofJews than with Barbie's "mistake of killing the hero of the Resistance, Jean Moulin." 
"If he hadn't, nobody would have heard ofhim, and he'd still be living a quiet life in Bolivia," Klarsfeld said in a tdephoneintervicw yesterday. 
Klarsfeld also alleged that Barbie's testimony would be more of an em­barrassment to the United States than to France. He said there are documents that prove Barbie was recruited by the U.S. Army for intel­ligence work immediately after the 
war. Barbie, charged with "crimes against humanity," is in Lyon's Montluc prison -the prison that, during World War II, housed French inmates when they were not being questioned at Gestapo headquar­ters. He faces life imprisonment. 

In conflict 



Iran retakes territory from Iraq 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -Iran Baghdad-Basra highway by taking Al­Pahlavi. launched its "final offensive" against Amara, 40 miles west of Fakeh. Shortly after Tehran radio broad­
Iraq before dawn yesterday, retaking Iraq said its forces killed 6,894 cast Iran's first claims ofvictory, Has­100 square miles ofIranian territory Iranians and took large numbers of hemi Rafsanjani, the speaker of the and hurling tens of thousands of 
prisoners. Baghdad communiques Iranian Parliament, was quoted by troops across the border in its big­
claimed that Iraqi warplanes and the official Islamic Republic News gest drive yet. 
helicopter gunships flew 129 mis­Agency as saying, "The people ex­Iraq confirmed the offensive, but sions, "securing complete control of pect this offensive to be the final
said it completely crushed two the skies over the battlefront, inflict­military operation that willIranian divisions that crossed into 
ing very heavy losses on enemy 
determine the final destiny of the

Iraq at Fakch, about 180 miles sout­
tanks and armor, and returning safe­region."
heast of Baghdad and 100 miles ly to their bases."
north of Basra. The aim of the of­"We have been given no other
Iraqi leaders said recently that
fensive appeared to be cut the choice than to make our final effort 
It ran had massed 150,000 troops in 
to gain our just rights." 

the southern sector ofthe 300-mile­
The radio broadcasts were 

been outlined in a document Foreign reporters have seldom ment." analogous to the Bill of Rights that There was no immediate reaction
been allowed to visit the warfront includes the rights to just wages, to since Iraq invaded Iran more than from these countries to the Iranian two years ago, and there was no way offensive. But AlMadina said Satur­free speech, and to form associa­to check the conflicting claims. Iran day that the Gulf Arab states were in tions. named its offensive "Val Fajr," Per­constant contact, "fearing that a new 
• Various collegial structures are sian for "Before Dawn." Iranian invasion would cause the codified including diocesan and Iranian leaders had been predict­Iran-Iraq war to spill over beyond
ing a large scale offensive for the past the territories ofthe combatants."
parish councils, finance councils, 
few weeks. It came four days before The Arab countries, Saudi Arabia 
episcopal conferences, as well as the 
the fourth anniversary of Ayatollah and Kuwait in particular, were
Synod of Bishops. 
Ruhollah Khomeini's revolution, recently reported engaged in fresh
• The code affirms the 
which overthrew the U.S.-supported mediation efforts to prevent a new
"discretionary authority of the bis­
regime 01 ::.nan Mohammau Reza tlarcup.
hops" on many matters. 
• 
Provisions ofliturgical renewal are "fully incorporated." 

• 
Canonical penalities are "greatly 


• • • Tickets 

simplified," including a reduction of offenses leading to excommunica­tion from 3 7 to six. continuedfrom page I tenm~. 
Several other major changes also 
Baisley believes her ticket's in­made headlines when Pope John 
ALtivities involving Notre Dame volvement in extra-curricular ac­
Paul promulagated the revised and Saint Mary's women were in­tivities will enable them to "unify"seven-volume code. A woman's itiated this year, and Hageman's tick­the class. She said, "They've been on right to all Church olfices except et wants to continue the program the outside looking in. It will work priesthood was affirmed, and the 
next year. to our advantage. We know what the
word layperson replaced layman in 
class would like to see." 

many ofthe canons. Her ticket promotes hat ex­
Manion's ticket wantsJunior Class 

perience; she feels it gives them an
The code also changes the Disorientation Week to become a 
"added edge." Hageman is president
American procedure for annulment tradition. "It went over well,"
of the Sophomore Class, Board of
in part by requiring judges ofanoth­Manion said, and she would like the 
Governance member, Student Af­
er diocesan to review the case also. week-long activites to begin the fall And the code may also contain a semester next year.
fairs Committee member, Hall Presi­dents' Council member, Student
provision giving bishops more con­Fundraising for local charities and trol over the teaching of theology in Representative for the Haggar Col­establishing a volunteer program are lege Center Dedication Committee
Catholic colleges. other activites Manion's ticket and was a Regina Hall Council mem­
promotes.

In general, however, Notre ber. 
"We know we can work togeth­

Dame's Lahey thinks "the institu· 
Lopez is commissioner on the 
er," she said. Her ticket wants totipnal part of the Church comes off 

Sophomore Council, and Jones is a 
"carry on to move on to bigger andin the revised code as being less than 

typist for the education department.
autocratic." The code, he said, "puts better things."
Potter is treasurer of the Sopho­
more bite" into the principle ofcon­Manion is president of McCand­
more Class and held the same office 
less Hall and chairperson for Littlesultation. 

her freshman year. 
Sisters' W cekend. Lahey noted, however, that any Karnatz is a member of McCand­
Baisley's ticket is interested in "getting more feedback from the
Code of Canon Law will inevitably less Hall Council, chairperson of be a "child ofits time." And in many class," and encourages "more inter­
Sophomore Parents' Weekend for respects, as Executive Coordinator action between the classes," she 
Mass and brunch. of the Canon Law Society of said . 
Nolan is vice-president of American Father James Provost has 
Both Baisley's and Manion's tick­McCandless Hall, member of Elec­written, "The code will be out of ets think Junior Mothers' Weekend tions Committee and member of 
date even before it is promulgated." 
needs more activites and better or­Saga Food Board. 
"Law is a living thing," McBrien 
ganization. Baisley suggesu:u a Saas is a member of the Social Ac­said. "Who's to say that in the next couple of hours be left unscheduled tion Club, the Nur~ing Club and is a 20 years we won't have cause to 
during the weekend so students and committee member of Little Sister!>' 
revise the code again?" 
their mothers could swim or play W eeker.d. 
~­

The Observer Tuesday, February 8, 1983 -page 5 
Senate passes various resolutions at Ineeting 
eluded that the road to Carroll Hall
By AMY STEPHAN 

be paved and maintained and the
\eu•s Staff 

parking D-6 be drained and filled. Resolutions involving weight­
Linda Puwers, student union academic commissioner, spoke to
lifting tacilitin for non-varsity ath­the Student Senate concerning ideas
letes, the completion of the tlooring for upcoming lectures. Powers said
at Stepan Center and the main­that while lectures arc currcctly
tenance ofcampus grounds were ap­proved at last night's Student Senate 

well-atte:1ded. the Student l"nion is meeting. 
unable to pay for lectures by better According to student senate 
known speakers. Powers stated that the Student
resolution 1 11. "the completion of Cnion budgets 530,000 for ten
the !louring at Stepan Center as well as the removal ofthe stage will result lectures. which, after travelling and in a much needed increase ofrecrea­advertising expenses, leaves only tional space." Lloyd Burke, student $2';00 per lecture. She pointed out body_president, stated that the extra that top lecturers are demanding area could be used for a running $10,000 and above per engagement. 
track and possibly a volleyball court. Discussion of this issue ccn­
A second resolution involved the terered around the possibility of use of Nautilus equipment in the engaging fewer lectures and thus he ACC lw the student bodv during able to pay more per lecture, and the period; of low varsity use. and the possibility ofcharging a small admis­expansion of weight lifting facilities sion fee for well-known speakers. at the Rockne Memorial to include Powers also stated that the Stu­
Nautilus equipment. Said Bob dent l"nion has contacted Ted Yonchak. student senator. "I feel Turner about the possibility of that the student body should have lecturing at Notre Dame this spring. 
N"autilus equipment available. It's The next student union speaker will Sophomore architecture students Luis Baldo the best equipment around." be Thomas Murton, the original and Ed Gavagan work on their architecture 
The Student Senate requested that "Brubaker", on February 1..., at the ana~ysis projects. The former architecture depart-the University place a high new Center for Social Concerns. budgetary priority on many main­In other Student Senate business, 
tenance and small improvement 

the Senate's response to the recently items in another resolution. This released PACE report was discussed. 
Israeli-sponsored 
statement requested that sidewalks 

The Senate found that "the overrid­he installed in several heavily used 
ing goals and recommendations paths throughout campus and that (included in the mission of the Uni­


Peace pact signed by militias 
lights on campus be added where versity) are well-founded." 

needed for increased security, espe­The Senate also supports the BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Chris­rael of setting "impossible condi­warning stations to detect any guer­cially along the tennis courts behind PACE report's goal "to keep Notre tian and Druse militias signed 
an tions" for withdrawal of its troops rillas returning. Gemayel's gover­the ACC. Dame in the technological forefront Israeli-sponsored peace pact yester­from Lebanon. ment refuses to let the Israelis 
This resolution also proposed that in an economically feasible man­day, but new artillery and rocket State television said Christian and operate the stations. cable fences be better placed and ner." However, the senate reponse barrages were reported in the Druse militiamen pounded each Although Israel sided with the maintained and that the drainage noted that the PACE report "tails to central mountains overlooking other with artillery and multiple Christians in the early stages of the 
system be incorporated to eliminate specifically indicate which areas are Beirut as soon as night fell. rocket launchers in the towns of invasion. the reluctance of the flooding. Other suggestions in-most in need of modernization." Lebanon meanwhile accused Is-Souk ai-Gharh and Aitat, three to Gemayel government to meet the four miles south ofAley. 
spy station demands reportedly has Brig. Gen. Amnon Litkin. 

Natura/family planning 
cooled Israel's desire to act against commanding oftlcer of the Israeli the Druse and the Islamic sen, army in central Lebanon, told a news which is a minority both in Lebanon 
conference earlier in the day that and Israel. the peace accord covered the Aley 

and Chouf Mountain regions. Druse tlghters captured the Chris­tian sector of Aley in a lightning as­ByVIC SCIULLI natural family planning have a lower Mr. Fulnecky said he and his wife sault Sunday that drove Christian 
Fertility awareness emphasized 
He said Israeli forces undertook to 

Assistant News Editor divorce rate than couples who do had different reasons for deciding on militiamen from all their positions in
police the cease-tire and "react" 

not. The reason for this, she believes, natural family planning as opposed the strategic highway town eight
against violators in the mountains,

"People shouldn't have to protect is that these couples "have more to the birth control. His reason was miles southeast of Beirut.
where battles have claimed more themselves from sex, which is a committment to make the marriage rooted in his Catholic belief that the than I-o lives in two months. 
The rightist Christian Phalangenatural expression of love," said a permanent because it forces them to pill was morally wrong, while hers Partv and the Druse Progressiverepresentative for the Natural Fami­make decisions together." was based on the question of health. However, there have been reports Socialist Partv later issued separately Planning Program of St. Joseph Fulnecky said that the sympto­Natural family planning is the only the Israelis might pull out of the 

statements piedging adherence "toCountv. thermal method is 99 percent ef­form of birth control short of com­mountains and let the Lebanese deal 
the letter and spirit" of the newlyKin}· Fulnecky and her husband fective if the couples are well plete abstinence approved by the with the violence unless the govern­signed pact ofpeaceful coexistence.

Tim led a presentation last evening informed and motivated. She added Catholic church. ment of Christian President Amin 

which focused on natural birth con­that it is easy to be aware ofthe signs The idea for natural family plan­Gemavel meets Israeli conditions 
Litkin announced the accord 

trol methods as means for family indicating ovulation if one is taught ning has been increasing in for a t~tal withdrawal from Lebanon. 
before L".S., Israeli and Lebanese planning. them. "It's good to be in tune with popularity in the past few years be­negotiators ended their I_~ session The natural family planning your body. It's a powerful feeling cause of increased concerns about of the troop withdrawal talks in sub­Israel invaded June 6 to smash themethod involves the principle of having the knowledge and not the adverse health effects of other urban Khalde. A final communiquePalestine Liberation Organization,"fertility awareness" rather than having to worry about the pill." birth control methods. Mrs. Ful­but refuses to leave without guaran­indicated no major breakthough in chemicals or devices employed in Abstinence is required in natural ned:y said that today's natural family tees it will he allowed to man early sight.

family planning. The average period planning is not the same as the
other methods ofbirth control. The "sympto-thermal" method of 

of abstinence depends upon the rhythm method. a less sophisticated natural family planning is a combina­
menstrual cycle of each female but 'orm of natural famly planning. The tion of using basal body temperature 
usually averages six to nine days. ·hvthm method was often called Fulnecky said that this can he a 'V~tican Roulette" in the 60's be­
and cervical mucous color and vis­


CIVIL ENGINEERS . .. 

"positive" rather than negative cause of its unreliability. 
cositv as a means for determining whe~ ovulation takes place. Prior to 

aspect. "Abstinence can make the ovulation, the release of the egg in 
union exciting and new," she said. the female, the cervix secretes more 
"It makes you re-evaluate your 
You're Needed 
spouse each month." perature increases. By maintaining a 
mucous and the basal body tem­


Erratum 
AIIOverthe

day by day check of both of these, a A 20-minute !11m discussed the woman can determine when she is advantages of natural family plan­fertile. ning over "barrier methods" like the The article previewing the Saint 

World.

Mrs. Fulnecky said that studies IUD (intrauterine device) which Mary's senior class officer can­have ~nown tilat couples using can be dangerous to the woman. didates in yesterday's Observer con­
Ask Peace Corps volunteers with degrees in Civil

tained some incorrect information. Engineering why they travel half way around the
In order to set the record straight, we present the correct credits for 
globe to Africa and Asia ... why they work with
Ohio police arrest 

water, sanitation, road construction, and structural to/Keenan/Bon/Jennings. 
the Adornet­
projects overseas. They'll probably say they want Caroline Adornetto was a mem­
to help people, use their skills, learn a new language, 

ber of the Freshman Council and a





17 striking truckers 
and gain valuable career experience. Ask them why

planner for Sophomore Parents' 
Peace Corps is the toughest job you'll ever love.

YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio -Police claim the government denies. Weekend. She was Social Commis­in Ohio seized 17 people on rioting The governor of Kentucky or­sioner of McCandless Hall her soph­charges yesterday in the biggest ai:­dered three National Guard helicop­omore year and of LeMans Hall this 
Film seminar Feb 1'1 ~t 7 r>m in Nieuw-· rest of the independent truckers' ters into the air to patrol roads. More year. Jackie Bott was on the Sopho­
land Science Ball Rm. }_18. Seniors strike, and the strike leader later told shootings were reported in other more Parents' Weekend and 
can picl·up an aPPlication in advance reporters the shutdown may last an­states yesterday, damaging trucks Orientation committees. She is also 
in the placement office for interviews

other week. but causing no injuries. a member of the Accounting Club Feb 22 & 23.
As police racked down on the Prices of fruit, vegetables and and the Yearbook staff. Kathy Jen­rock-throwing and sniping that have chicken in some parts ofthe country nings is secretary ofthe junior class. killed one person and injured 63 in were squeezed upward as food She has served as Regina Hall Social the 8-day-old strike, Mike Parkhurst producers coped with a scarcity of Commissioner and as a member of 

I 
said his Independent Truckers As­trucks. Drivers willing to brave the the McCandless Hall CounciL 
PEACE CORPS 

sociation is making progress in talks roads found they could set their own We regret any inconvenience our with "top" administration officials, a prices. error may have caused. 
j 
I 
~ 







Business & Technology_T_ues_day,_Febr_uary_s,19_83_Pa_ge6 
f 
~ 
• 
Science Update 
Mount St. Helens erupted again yesterqay, building a new mound of lava on the 700-foot high dome in the volcano's crater. There were no reports of explosions, mudflows or ash. Offi­cials said thev did not know when the eruption began. The eruption was confirmed at about noon yesterday by geologists who tlew ove! the southwest Washington volcano, sa1d Tnom Corcoran of the U.S. Forest Service. Corcoran said a geologist in a fixed-wing airplane saw a new lobe of lava growing on the east side of the dome, but that 
ground crews had yet to contTrm it. On Saturday, the United States Geographical Survey and the University of Washington warned that movement within the crater and gas emissions indicated Mount St. Helens would erupt within two weeks. They said an eruption might be accompanied by explosive activity, rapid snow melt and mudflows that could cascade into Spirit Lake and the Toutle River drainage. However, the scientists said they foresee no danger to Spirit Lake or communities downstream. Scientists have been unable to land in the volcano's crater for the past several days because of poor weather. The snowpack in the crater is 10 to 25 feet deep. Lava dome eruptions are the way in which a volcano rebuilds itself, with new lobes oflava pushing up from below. Scientists say eventually a 
dome will fill the entire crater, but it may take hundreds ofyears to form. -AP 

Econoinic Update 
A group of 30 congressmen who asked a 
federal commission yesterday to stop two major pipelines from 
going ahead with their plan to start charging consumers for relative­
ly high-priced Algerian liquit1ed natural gas. The lawmakers ap­
pealed to the Federal Energy Reg6Iatory Commission to overrule a 
Jan. 28 decision by its administrative law judge, Curtis Wager ena­
bling the pipelines to proceed with the price increase. "We believe 
that the evidence clearly indicates that these imports are not 
marketable, their high prices would cause significant public 
hardship, and the reliability of this supply is open to serious ques­
tion," Senator Richard Lugar (R-Rep) said. "Gas prices have already 
skyrocketed in Indiana and throughout the Midwest," he added. "If 
the import of Algerian gas is approved, some residential sonsumers 
could be hit by additional price increases ofup to 40 percent. This is 
outrageous at a time when domestic gas supplies are abundant." In 
his ruling, Wagner said he lacked authority to bar the Houston-based 
Trunkline Pipeline Co. from charging for the Algerian gas, which 
cost S7. 18 per thousand cubic feet, compared to $3.32 for domesti­
cally produced gas. Wagner said a government-sanctioned 1977 
contract enabling Trunkline and its subsidiary, the Panhandle East­
ern Pipeline Co., to go ahead with the project remained valid. Pan­
handle Eastern distributes 90 percent of its natural gas to utilities in 
Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Missouri. -AP 


Wall St~eet Update 
Stock orices recorded their fourth straight gain yesterday 
with a broaaadvance that brought the DowJones industrial average 
close to its all-time highs. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, 
up 18.12 points in the last three sessions, climbed another 9.19 to 
1,087.10. The average reached its record closing high of 1,092.35 on 
Jan. 10. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 86.03 mil­
lion shares, against 87 million Friday. The advance in stock prices 
contrasted with a sluggish session in the credit markets. Rates on 
short-term Treasury bills rose about five basis points, or hundredths 
ofa percentage point. Prices oflong-term government bonds, which 
move in the opposite direction from interest rates, generally showed 
small losses. The daily count on the Big Board showed almost two 
gainers for every issuee that declined in price, and the exchange's 
composite index rose .48 to 84. 77. Nationwide turnover in NYSE­
listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges 
and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 99.47 million shares. ­
AP 

~~(~HIE IU:b.UUR-lUF -~, 
..;:~ 

Stubentstn BUS10€SS, SC1€0C€ & 

€nq1nee~1nq: 

lnt€R€St€b 10 WRJtJnq 

asout Oevelopmrnts In YOUR ~l€lb? 

·~so, Gall atex :;, 
Consumers happy, but. .. 




Demise of OPEC mixed blessing 
ByJOSEPH HOWE 
B&T Reporter 
The apparent demise of OPEC may have consumers rejoicing over prospects of lower gasoline prices, but it has the U.S. government and international bankers concerned. The government's primary goal is for the volatile world oil market to stabilize. 
Two weeks ago in Geneva, Swit­zerland, the 13 members of the Or­ganization of Petroleum Exporting Countries gathered in a last-ditch ef­fort to to avoid a possible plunge in 
traders anticipated a price cut by a major producer. 
With the lower oil prices resulting in sharply reduced revenues for oil­producing countries, banks which have lent huge sums of money will 
find it increasingly difficult to col­lect their money. Mexico, Venezuela, Nigeria, and Indonesia would be in serious trouble, threatening the international finan­cial system which is already in a tenuous situation. 
The other side of this dilemma, however, is the immediate benefit of should prices sharply decline is the federal government. Oil companies dominate the list of the largest cor­porations in the United States and reduced oil prices will result in reduced profits which means reduced "windfall prot1ts" tax col­lected by. the government which means increased federal det1cits. 
Government estimates are that it collected S 1 7 million from the tax last year. For this reason, govern­ment economists are hoping for an OPEC accord which would level off oil prices at a small decline of S2 a 
world oil prices. The delegates from r------------------------------,
OPEC arnved hopeful for this emer­
gency  session,  arranged  to  limit  
production  of  oil  and  stabilize  
prices.  

The talks collapsed when Sheik Yamani of Saudi Arabia exploded in anger because the tentative agree­ment on production ceilings would not deal with the issues of price­differentials of various grades of crude oil and the discounting of oil products or price cutting. 
For over a year, OPEC has been attempting to t1nd a way to reunite its forces and deal with the oil glut which is cutting into the oil producers' revenue. The in-t1ghting, which is always centered around 
who was to give up what percentage Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan 
of their market share, has reached 1.....------------------------------_. 
the point ofa virtual price war. 
Without an accord, the market forces of supply and demand wiU take over. This will result in a sig­nificant price decline, perhaps as great as $7 a barrel. At least tem­
porarily, oil traders and consumers were waiting for a new signal on prices. Spot quotes on crude oil in the international market fell sig­nificantly following the collapse of the talks and then leveled off as 
30 
25 
20 
15 
10 
5 
1973 '74 '75 '76 '77 

$1.32 
Average gasoline prices per gallon 
Source: OECD 
$1.30 
$1.20 $1.18 
$1.15 

a decline in oil prices to the con­sumer. The consumer could save on indirect expenditures such as petroleum-based chemical and plas­tic products as well as gasoline and home heating oil. Another benet1ciary of a decline in oil prices would be the airline industry which spends approximately one-third of operating costs for oil. 
According to a University economics professor, a big loser barrel. The government cannot openly support continued high prices because of the political trouble it would cause domestically. 
Another consideration in the im­possible game oftrying to predict oil prices is the state of the United States economy. If the nagging recession continues, industrial production will remain low and oil 

will continue to be conserved here in the United States. This would have the effect of applying downward pressure on prices. Once the much­awaited economic recovery gets started the opposite force could oc­cur. As the economy gets stronger 
and industrial production increases, the demand for oil will begin to soak up the oil glut and prices could begin to rise again. 
Although anything is still possible, a collapse in oil prices, which would result in shock waves being sent through the international monetary system does not seem _to be very 
probable. A more likely situation seems to be a moderate drop in oil prices which will continue to hear­ten American consumers. 


'78 '79 '80 '81 '82 

Number of unemployed rose 



Decline in jobless rate misleading 
NEW YORK (AP)-It is a tossup whether it was the slide in the January jobless rate or the White House's exaltant response to it that was the most interesting economic news ofthe past few days. 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics an­nounced a decline in the jobless rate to 10.2 percent in January from lO.B 
percent in December, creating acre­scendo ofconfidence in and beyond the White House. 
But muftled by it all was the 
disturbing news that the number of jobs didn't rise at all. Even worse, that the number of jobless actually rose to 12,517,000 from 11,628,000. 
Perhaps worst of all: a process designed to remove statistical aber­rants might actually have in­troduced some. 
Several things made the results appear positive, chief among them 

>W¥i~~~~~ID9a!~ill;,•5a'iiil:l~•mi?I.I~IJ!!IItiiJIIIDil.lll·· _~_:_:_·~-~-i~-·e-uas_e_o_~_:_~-~-~-~u_:_;_~~-~-~_;_h_t~-·~_h_r_i:_~ 
J_r~_7_:_aa_sC:_ct_:_~b_u_r2-e5..s:_B_~_~_~_:_~-~-~~_1_a_s_t~-ift_b_i~--~-~-~-~-~_;_:x_·s_am_m_i~_:_~_i~-n-e.•n.ts_m_i_g_h_t_b_e_a_r 
count, and the addition to the employed rolls of military person­nel. 
Janet L Norwood, BLS commis­sioner, told Congress Frid:.y that the purpose of such tampering is to remove temporary statistical changes that blur the longer-term underlying trend. 
In this year's monthly CPI reports, for example, a rental equivalent will be substituted for the price ofhomes ann the cost of mortgages, one 
't 
reason being criticisms that high home and mortgage costs exag­
gerated the index. 
These high costs, critics pointed out, were confined to those who bought houses or renegotiated mortgages, a relatively small per­centage of all families. Existing owners, for example, generally weren't affected. 
The new standard beginswith the housing-rental costs, the timing could prove unfortunate, especially for those trying to prove intlation is waning. 
Mortgage costs, for example, have been falling, and housing prices have almost stabilized. But those who make a living renting out apartments say that rents are poised for a sharp, abnormal ascent. 
Landlords -among them the operators of huge real estate limited partnerships that own many
th d f · · h 
ousan s o umts -argue t at
t h 1 d · h 
ren s ave agge mcreases in ot er
living costs. As they put it, rents will be "adjusted upward." If home-ownership costs rose sharply enough to exaggerate the CPI, can't the same be said for sharp­ly rising rental expenses? It would seem so. 
It would seem also that those tight little numbers through which so many people interpret the 




Editorials 
Tuesday, February 8, 1983-page 7 
Observer endorses Saint Mary's only ticket 
Presidental candidate Elaine Hocter and her vice presidential running mates, Lee Ann Franks and Madeline Hoch, are qualified candidates in Thursday's elec­tion for student body officers at Saint Mary's. 
Unopposed in the race, Hocter, Franks, and Hod1. have the necessary ex­perience and communication skills to merit your vote. However, our endorsement oftheir ticket is not without reservation. 
The Hocter platform offers a realistic starting point for the next student government administration at Saint Mary's. The use ofthe College Center, study­ing the housing situation, and improving security are essential goals. 
However, the platform suggests that the Hocter ticket plans little innovation. Each oftheir proposals has been started by previous officers under the guidance ofthe Administration. The Hocter platform is unspecific and fails to propose any fresh new ideas for the College. Hocter and her vice presidents must do more than maintain the status quo. 
For a second year now, Saint Mary's finds itself with only one ticket in the race for student body oft1cers. The Hocter ticket displays a superior attitude in suggesting that student satisfaction with their platform is the reason for the lack 
ofa competing ticket. 

The fact that -once again -no other students chose to enter the race is evidence of a severe apathy problem pervading the Saint Mary's campus. Com­petition is a healthy part ofstudent government and essential to democracy. 
Another unopposed ticket, following last year's, seems to indicate the growth ofan "in" group within the College. Apparently, no one else is willing to accept the challenge. The new student government administration must emphasize 
creativity and individuality in order to assure that next year won't offer another one-ticket campaign. 
P.O. Box Q 
Campbell case 

DearEditor: 
The Notre Dame FLOC Support Committee has implied that the University should use its "strength" to bring "embarrassment" to Campbell Soup Company by endorsing the boycott. 
We hope this is not the intended meaning. The migrant worker situation is highly com­plex. It involves our entire society, not just a single company in a single industry. Campbell is trying to deal with the matter through its corporate citizenship ship programs. We invite others to join us in those efforts. 
Through these programs, Campbell is fun­ding job training for migrant and seasonal workers. funding day care agencies, and health care services for migrant families, and reaffirming its company hiring practices to ensure that former migrant workers and their families have every opportunity to enter the mainstream of full-time employment. It's noteworthy that FLOC threatens to "take ac· tion against" any social service agency that ac­cepts funds from Campbell. 

It is also inaccurate to imply that Campbell is anti-union. Campbell has a long-standing policy of recognizing and bargaining in good faith with all its employees who lawfully choose to be represented by a union. In the United States, Campbell has 32 labor agree­ments with nine different international uni­ons. More than 2,000 of the company's Ohio employees, where FLOC is striking, are mem­bers ofa union that has enjoyed good relations with the company for more than 20 years. 
We, too, are interested in justice. Is it justice for Campbell to be singled out in a mat­ter that involves an entire industry -indeed, an entire society? Is it justice to support a boycott that is based on so many false assump­tions? 
We trust that the students of Notre Dame will join other people ofgoodwill in realizing that much more can be accomplished through the "politics of reconciliation" than through the "politics ofreprisal." 
Scott Rombach Director-Public Relations Campbell Soup Company 


Why not Campbell? 

DearEditor: 
Ninety-nine percent of FLOC members are 
U.S. citizens. These farmworkers work long days of ten and twelve hours alongside small children, grandparents, and pregnant wormen harvesting food so the rest ofAmerica can eat. Why can't our fellow Americans earn enough to eat, and to adequately clothe, shelter and educate their families, too? Where has the great American value ofan honest wage for an honest day's work gone? Why must entire families labor endlessly and still just barely survive7 
Few would disagree that this is the reality to thousands of migrant farm workers in the Mid­west. Even Campbell admits that there is a "social problem." The Ohio Senate Subcom­mittee Report documents page after page of meager wages and gross violations of health and housing codes. In the face ofthis injustice, something must be done. Solutions must be found. 

In order to begin tlnding solutions, it is es­sential to understand the structure of the tomato industry in the Midwest. The proces­sors or canneries such as Campbell and Libby­McNeil-lJbby purchase tomatoes from the growers, who are small independent farmers owning 20 to 200 acres of land. These growers sign a pre-season contract with a processor in which the processor dictates, among other things, the price per ton the grower will receive for his crop. The growers in turn employ migrant farmworkers to har­vest the tomatoes. The wage for these workers comes directly <;>Ut of the price which the grower receives from the cannery. 
In 1968, the farmworkers, represented by FLOC, won contracts with 33 local growers. However, the growers found themselves in an economic squeeze. Without getting a higher price from the canneries for their tomatoes, they were powerlesss to pay the farmworkers adequate wages. With the failure ofthese con­tracts, it became obvious that real change would only be possible if all parties involved sat down and together made the decisions that affect all three. After an indepth inves­tigaton, the Ohio Senate Subcommittee came to this very same realization. It states: 
"The processors hold th key to the success of the tomato industry in Ohio. They control the prot1ts the farmer can expect and also, directly or indirectly, the migrants' earnings and whether they lose their jobs to mec­hanizaton. Collective bargaining rights are necessary for the migrant as well as the far­
mer." 
Therefore, if there is any hope or justice, it lies in the processors' recognition of their in­fluence upon the lives of farmers and farmworkers and the acceptance of their cor­porate/social responsibility. This is exactly what FLOC is asking. All FLOC wants is to be able to sit down with the processors and growers and collectively make decisions that affect their lives. Without three-way negotia­tions, these decisions are made solely by the processors. Is this too much to ask? 
If you recognize the injustices that the farmworkers suffer and you agree that some· thing must be done, then you must accept that the processors have a responsibility to negotiate with the growers and the farmworkers. Given the unique nature of the tomato industy, the participation of the processors in three-way negotiations is essen­tial to any solution. Therefore, FLOC's boycott ofCampbell products is not unreasonable.lt is 
the only moral and legal means open to the farmworkers to call on you, the consumer, to help them in their struggle or rights that most other Americans take for granted. The idea of the boycott is not to push Campbell into bankruptcy, rather it is to bring them to ac­
cept their corporate responsiblitiy. 
After hearing Scott Rombach give Campbell Soup Company's position at the HPC meeting, the obvious question arises: But why Campbell? Perhaps a more appropriate ques­


IheJ)b~~~~~~~er============ 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies -,;: the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. c.._ :1entari.es, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expre~sion ofvarying opinionson campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 
tion is Why not Campbell? Campbell is a major processor in the tomato industry and therefore has a responsibility to the farmworkers. If they are not fulfilling this responsibility, then it is not unjust for FLOC and Notre Dame to hold them to that respon­siblity. However, it would be unjust if Notre Dame students did not hold Campbell to their responsibility, which is the farmworkers only hope for justice. 
Ceci Schickel ND-FLOC Support Committee 


Answering Campbell 

DearEditor: 
By avoiding direct confrontation and refus­ing to offer students an opportunity to chal· lenge their arguments in public, Campbell has attempted to create illusionary issues upon which discussion concerning the boycott referendum may be based. In his letter to the editor, Scott Rombach, Director of Public Relations of the Campbell Soup Company, at­tempted to address issues raised by the FLOC boycott. Initially, he asserted that Campbell has never employed migrant farmworkers and, therefore, the FLOC boycott is a moot question. FLOC has never claimed that Campbell employs farmworkers. Rather, FLOC has sighted non-partisan reports by the Ohio Senate which identity the canneries (such as Campbell) in the tomato industry as having both direct and indirect control over the migrant farmworker's earnings and condi­tions. Furthermore, it states, "Collective bargaining rights are necessary for the migrant as well as the farmer." We are not addressing Campbell's legal relationship with the farmworkers; the boycott is concerned with the reality ofCampbell's control over the farmworkers' conditions and their moral responsibility to end the injustices suffered by the migrant farmworkers. 
FLOC is not opposed to mechanization. In fact, FLOC views mechanization as a safeguard against child labor abuses. Although mec­hanization would displace nearly two-thirds of the workforce in Ohio fields, FLOC argues that ifworkers were able to garner a just wage through collective bargaining, it would no longer be necessary for elderly people, children, and mothers with small children to work in the fields. 
Rombach also claims that a U.S. Labor Department report indicates that FLOC only has about 300 dues-paying members. This is a distortion of the facts. The Labor Depart­ment's report merely indicates the total amount of money raised from dues by FLOC and the dues requirement of every member. Contrary to what Rombach wants students to believe, FLOC has 1,240 dues-paying mem­

.bers and over 2,500 farmworkers which have authorized FLOC to represent them as a uni· on. FLOC's constitution does not require striking workers to pay dues. Since FLOC has not yet gained a contract with Campbell, FLOC merely asks the farmworkers to give what thev can. 
Romb~ch's greatest distortion ofthe facts is his claim that the "U.S. Department of Labor 

Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes ExecutiveNewsEditor .............. David Dziedzic SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ..................... Joseph Musumeci Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
Manpower Administration study shows that migrants working in the Ohio tomato t1elds averaged $5.33 an hour." The Ohio Senate reports that, "The administrator (of this study) indicated that this wage survey should not be considered the average hourly rate that migrants earn; the survey merely reflects ear­nings for a few days during the peak season. These t1gures taken out ofcontext and used as an indication of actual season wages for all migrants would be very misleading and inac­curate." 
Since the beginning of this referendum campaign, there has only been one occasion on which an audience ofstudents heard both sides in this controversy present their argu· ments and cross-examine each other in public. That was at the Hall President's Coun­cil meeting where Ceci Schickel and I infor­mally debated Mr. Rombach and two of his aides. Afterwards, the HPC voted 16 to .f in favor of FLOC. Since then, the Campbell representatives have avoided any public ap­pearances. Instead, they have spent their time constructing letters which they believed would go unchallenged. 
Thomas R. Merriman ND-FLOC 



Continue boycott 

DearEditor: 
Last Tuesday the Hall Presidents' Council had an opportunity to hear both points of view and analyze the issue before endorsing the continued boycott of Campbell. It is still very difficult for me to understand why Campbell changed their mind and declined to participate in the University-wide debate on Monday, January 31. The three Campbell representatives who arrived on Tues., Feb. I seem to have limited their debates and discus­sions to smaller groups and the written word. 
Many of us desired an open debate on the issues at the beginning of last week to under­stand the complexities of the questiol' of the boycott. It seems appropriate to me that we continue to have the boycott until the major parties in the discussion and debates follow through on commitments to open debatr-s which are expected at a Catholic university. I have been impressed with the dedication, commitment, and desire of the students working with FLOC here at Notre Dame to study the issues. I think the editorial of Thomas ). Kane in The Obseroer (Feb. 2 ), helps us focus on some of the major issues. 
It is my hope that the continuance of the boycott will also lead to greater clarit1cation of the expectations of each party to par­ticipate at appropriate times and with the proper spirit. As a member of the committee studying the policy of the University in rela­tion to boycotts, I hope that this process will lead all of us to discover better forums and means of debate in the area of value judg­ments and social concerns. 
Don McNeill, CSC 

Department Managers 

Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
l 
Founded November 3, 1966 

I 




~~()rts~fl~r~i~e~~=S~====~==============~=====Tu=e=sct=~='=Fe=br=u=ary==s.=19=8=3==p=a=ge==s 
By /be l!hsen>er and !be Associated Press 
All-Star game tonight 
Notre Dame-Fordham tickets for rhe Feb. 10 
game at the Byrne .\kadowlands Arena are available at half-price to 



NHL stars honored to play 
students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game ofa l'NIONDALE, N.Y. (AP) -Last Wayne Gretzky, the Edmonton Oiler rett, who was dealt to the Vancouver doubleheader with :\1anhattan taking on Holy Cross in the tlrst game. 
year at this time, Denis Potvin was center who is a ';2-point leader in Canuck~ by Quebec last week. Gar­Student tickets are SS. -The Obsen1er 
struggling to tlnd himself, let :!lone the NHL scoring parade. Grctzk}· rett is replacing Richard Brodeur. 
his All-Star ti>rm. But tonight, he'll he echoed Potvin's sentiments about who injured his ear on Saturday a starter on delense and the captain the All-Star Game. night. of the Prince of Wales team in the "It's a great opportunity to get theAny remaining participants in the men's un­:3Sth :\/ational Hockey League All­best players in the game participat­''Each team must be represented."
dergrad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should call Star Game. ing in one game," said Gretzky. "It's said Canucks Coach Roger :-.leilson.
the NVA office at 2:39-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­"I missed the game last year and aways an honor and ifyou do miss it who will handle the Campbells. "If 
ment moving. -The Obserz>er 
that's when I realizt·d you can't play -as Denis said -you really miss an\'one else had been hurt. we in thb game often enough," said Pot­it." w~uld have selected a member of vin, who ha!> been an All-Star six One player who never expected the Vancoun:'r team. I explained this times in hi~ I 0-year career. "This is to he here was goaltender John Gar-to john and he underMands."
Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Dave Dzied­
one game you don't start to miss or
.lic has announced a major rule change lor this·year's tournament. 
realize how important it is until you
Only one NCAA Division I basketball player, past, or present, will be art·n't there."
allowed per team. Registration for Bookstore XII will be Thursday, 
Potvin will he there tonight along
.\larch I 0. -The Obsen1er FIRST MIDWESTERN CITY CONFERENCE Hildreth. Oral Roberts. 6.5. 
with three teammates from the New 
INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD CHAMPIONSHIPS 88{)-YARD RUN -1. John McNel>s. Notre Dame. York Islanders, who are hosting the FINAL RESULTS 1 55.7. 2 Jacob Bunge>. Oral Roberts. 1.56.0: 3 6{)-YARD HIGH HURDLES (Heat 1)-1 John Gary Donzelli. Loyola. 1.56 2.
contest. Fellow defcnseman Dave 
McCloughan. Notre Dame, 7 4. 2. Dwayne Hildreth, 6{)-YARD HIGH HURDLES-1 John McCloug­Langevin and forwards Mike Bossy Oral Roberts. 7 6 3. John Barton, Butler, 8.0 han. Notre Dame. 7 4, 2 Dean McFarlane Notre
The Fellowshlp of Christian Athletes 
6{)-YARD HIGH HURDLES (Heat 2)-1. Dean Dame. 7 5: 3 Dwayne Hildreth. Oral Roberts. 7.6. 
and Bryan Trottier also will
will be meeting tonight at Hp.m. in Saint Ed's Chapel. All are invited. McFarlane. Notre Dame. 7 6; 2 M1ke Hockett. Butler. LONG JUMP -1 James Patterson. Notre Dame. -The Obsen1er represent the Isles. 7 7: 3. M1ke Brennan. Notre Dame. 8 1. 23-4 t'o2. 2 Mtke K>rk. Oklanoma C1ty. 20-11 t'o2, 3. TWO-MILE RELAY-1 Loyola (Chns Krob, Joe Mark Dobson. Butler 2b-7 T-o4
"This year has been much easier 
Budz, Dan McGehee. Gary Donzelll), ?·56; 2 Notre HIGH JUMP -1. Enc Sm1th. Oral Roberts. 6-8: 2.
for me," he said, recalling that a 
Dame. 8:10.0,3 Oklahoma C1ty. 8:23.8. Chuck Constable. Notre Dame. 6-8. 3 John Brand. preseason groin injury sidelined him 6{)-YARD DASH (Heat1) -1. Allen P1nkett. Notre Butler. 6-6 Dame. 6 5: 2 Dwayne Hildreth, Oral Roberts. 6.5; 3 TRIPLE JUMP-1 Gary LeKander, Notre Dame. 
for the first two months of last
Marathon Oil has bought all of the remaining tickets to Mike Davtdson, Butler, 6.6. 44-2.2. Cra•g M1les. Butler. 43-11. 3. Enc Patten. But­season. "When you spt·nd all your 6{)-YARD DASH (Haat1)-1 W>ll James. Oral
this Saturday's hockey game against Bowling Green. The company ler. 43-1 
time as a hockey player working on Roberts, 6 5. 2. Enc Patten, Butter, 6.6: 3. M1ke K>rk, MILE RELAY -1 Notre Dame {John McNelis.distributed most of the tickets to its dealers. These tickets are sold Oklahoma C1ty, 6 6 
Dean McFarlane. Steve Dz,abiS. Robert Nobles).
weights and your whole lite is
out. However, there arc SOO tickets remaining for students and fans. ONE-MILE RUN (Heat1) -1 Mark Carlson. Bul­3:26 6; 2. Butler, 3.30.5: 3. Loyola. 3:31 0 
geared toward rehabilitation, you ler. 4 29.4:2. Mark Toner. Notre Dame. 4:33.0; 3. Enc
The tickets can be bought at Gate I0 of the ACC from 9 to 5 every 
lose the fun. Hauch. Evansv>lle, 4 36 7 :'?':'::{ifl{}
day this week. Game time is '::30. -The Observer 1 
"Now I look forward to the next Ro~~;~~~~;~.~N i~e~~~)n~.1 N~~;~ ~~~~.' ! 1~r~l tij[:i:: ···JNT E R HALL }:::::' ::::':' 
3. Dave Denny, Evansville. 418.4 •••••••••••••••••••
night. I tee! like I'm in a groove and it 
ONE-MILE RUN (Final)-(same as heat 2) makes life so much easier." 44{)-YARD DASH (Heat1) -1 Jeff Morrell, But­INTERHALL RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS ler. 52.5: 2. Ph1l Henn1ng. Detro•t. 54.4: 3 Stan Wil-Men's Undergrad Singles
Women's golf team members are reminded Each of the All-Stars are in a 
son. Oral Roberts. 55 4 to go to the ACC driving range today for videotaping. -The Ob­groove, which is why they are here. 44{)-YARD DASH (Heat 2)-1 Marv1n Adams. O'Toole {8324) v. H1ckey 1t 004). serl'er "It's exciting to be recognized as Oklahoma C1ty, 51.2:2. Bill Nlederhaus, Butler. 51 5: M1lla t8742) v {winner of S1mpson {3336) v. Van­3 Jim McConnell, Notre Dame. 51.9 derbeck (277-2163)). 
an All-Star, although it hasn't been 
44{)-YARD DASH (Heat 3) -1 Collins En­Desaulmers (6864) v Pasley (3224) the foremost thing in my mind," said wereuzor, Oral Roberts, 49.3: 2 Jan Kan1a, Notre Atwell (1535) v. Sch,erlt3667). Dame. 50.1. 3. Robert Nobles. Notre Dame, 50.9 McCabe {233-60681 v. (w1nner of Pokorny (3287) 
Chicago Black Hawks goalie :\1urray DASH (Final) Collins En­Shank (288-30511) 
44{)-YARD -1. vlnterhall VOlleyball is beginning. The entry Bannerman, who will start for the wereuzor. Oral Roberts, 49 3: 2 Jan Kan1a, Notre Htggms v. to be announced (call offtce) Dame. 50.1. 3. Robert Nobles. Notre Dame. 50.9. 
deadline is February l S at 5:00. Because there is a :32-team limit, Clarence Campbell Conference. 
SHOT PUT-1 Todd Lezon, Notre Dame, 51-2
early signup is encouraged. The tournament is open to students, "Usually, when the All-Star break So4; 2. Mark Nagy, Butler, 50-6; 3. Frank Re>ly, Notre 
WOMEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES faculty, and staff. It is single elimination with three l 5-point games comes up you watch others on your Dame, 45-2 t'o2. Healy/Smith !234-8856) v. DeCrane/Jehle (234­POLE VAULT -1 Shawn M>tchell, Oral Roberts. 8856). 
1
per round. The roster minimum is nine players. Entries can be sub­team playing in it. But we all have a 
14-6. 2. Jeff Ell1s. Butler. 14-6; 3. John Langdon. Mara/Gutnessey (3755) v (wmner of Deren­mitted to the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obsen,er lot of pride and like to he Notre Dame. 14-0 goskt/Barker v Hanson/Langan) 
recognized." 6{)-YARD DASH-1 Will James. Oral Roberts. Roberts/DeLeone ;282·1 029) v Sakow1tZ/Jeffers 6 3, 2 Allen P1nkett. Notre Dame. 6.3; 3. Dwayne (1277).
The Campbells will he led by 
O'Toole/Sulhvan (8008) v. Sm1th/Groody 11389). 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am. to 4.30 p.m However. classtfteds to appear tn the next ISSue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton. All classtfieds must be prepatd. 
etther tn person or through tne matI. 


1Classifieds 
To whoever acc1dently took my be1ge RIDE NEEDED to central M1ch1gan on SMAK' SMC CLASS OF 84 ELECT ADORNET­Satnt Marys students. Want to send a overcoat at the ACC dance Fnday mght. Feb 11 Please call Dav1d at 1101 MEET A KISSER. Sponsored by TO KEENAN JENNINGS BOTT SENIOR Valentme personal to that someone spe­

NOTICES 
please return 1t. I have yours! Call Bnan at 

Santor Class Send a certtftcate CLASS OFFICERS VOTE THURS , FEB. ctal? Buy Observer ctasstheds 12:30 to 38315 need nde to CHICAGO Feb 11 Call Kathy 
redeemable lor a KISS to your favonte! 10 p m. Monday thru Fnday at the Sa1ntx6883 On sale Monday through Frtday. Marys Observer otftce, basement of LOST-A tan RAINCOAT OVERCOAT 11.00AM-1 OOPM. Feb. 7-11. Foronly25 Dear Bubbles. Regtna.
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 at the SMC dance 1n the ACC. It had a pa>r Need RIDE TO PURDUE for wweekend cents 1n LAFORTUNE Send a K1ss for You are on my m1nd. 

of suade gloves >n the pockets. Probably of Feb 18-20 Call Bruce 1360 

Valentine's Day--stgn up now !!!!!!! You are everylhmg a woman could be Keenan Revue p1ctures can be seen on26'o OFF the pnce of a student t1cket w1th taken by m1s-take If you have 1t please Consequently I behave that no one 
t1rst floor Keenan Hall If you would hke toNeed nders to DAYTON on Feb 11-13

th1s ad and an ID. The Acting Company call Dave at 1866 I can help you locate Colleen Murptiy. Someiiociy loves you'··· Else could take your place 1f you order, see Bnan Calahan before Fnday. 
Please call Meg at 277-5168 aher 5pm 
Share usual

for the Kennedy Center presents yours Should ever leave me 
Shakespeare s 'THE TWELFTH NIGHT SMC Class of '85 You're the best. 
Maureen· You·re a fox· BJGLOST ONe grey, flannel knit. wool scarf. For expenenced and responstble Juntor

8 00 PM. Feb t 2, at Century Center. Box Scoundrel
NEED RIDE TO U OF M ANN ARBOR

M1SS1ng s>nce late Sunday mght. Lost on class otftcers. vole·office 284-9111 ·North Quad. Ph1l x1486 , FEB 11 CHRIS 3184 HAPPY BIRTHDAY NICOLE II'
Cara Hageman BAR MELODY 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY NICOLE!!! Attention Students!!! When you ment1on Michelle Lopez HAPPY BIRTHDAY NICOLE!!! 
BAR MELODY

lost:gold se>ko quartz watch poss1bly leh Marti Jonas Notre Dame 1983 wall calendar absolute­1n locker room at the Rock on 2/4/83 If Mary Ann PoHer 
th1s ad and buy any book. you'll rece1ve a HAVE A GREAT 19th1
BAR MELODY 
More 1nfo soon· LOVE, BUFFY 
f) tree Stop 10 Pandora s today, 937 So found, please call K1m at 277-7401 Bend Ave 


I PERSONALS I 

Hey Class of '86 l"d sttll love to get you on a slow boat If Don t Look Us Over We re The Lucky Today! Today! Today! Placement you lind you re not docked 1n the nght Clover Vote JULIE HARMON-Pres Bureau career mtorrnat10n presentation 
port, Ill help you set sa•l aga1n. MARY SAUER-V P 415 p m today 1n 103 O'Shaughnessy. 
Tma Persson­p.s It was a lovely crutse JANET BIEGEL-Sec Info for psych and econ maJors wtll be

IIthere's ever a phrase


[LOST/FOUND I I.___FO_R_R_EN_T___,/ 

No apolog>es. please THERESA HARDY-Tres avatlabfe All students. treshmen througn On Thursday Feb 10 sentors. are welcom6 Don't miss it! 
That's hard to rhyme 
The hardest must be 

Hey, T aledo, 
"Be my Vatentme" D1d you know there IS a Newark m Oh1o BONJOUR MONSIEUR FRANK WHITE·

TWO ROOMS WITH BATH ALL 

too? 
ATTENTION ALL SMC FRESHMEN Happy Tuesday!! From your tavonte Calc 
UTILITIES PAID MALE PREFFERED But here it is Lost: A brown w1nter Jacket at Campus PRIVATE ENTERANCE 2880955 Your first mystery gill For So ph Class Officers­correspondents, Katy and Mary. 
V1ew. Apt. 207 If you p1cked 1t up by I hope it gives ND SOPHOMORE SKI TRIP REFUNDS Vote, Feb 1 0 -tor P.S Thanks for wtshtng us luck 
can be picked up 1n the Student ActiVities A Bertucc1-Pres. P P S. No. we·re not psychoanalysts 
m1stake. call J1m at 3632 The 1acket was STUDENT RENTAL, 4-BEDROOM Your heart alilt office start1ng tomorrow. Bring your ID A Karnatz-V P P.P P S Yes. we like to speak French lost at the party on Fnday 1/28/83. HOUSE CALL 232-4057, 272-7767. 

S Knezev1ch-Treas PPP.PS Doeslnxlnx
s1gned 4 bdrm turn1shed house. near campus

LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH LEFT IN your secret Keenan sweetheart D Buchanan-Sec. trouble/ pa1n/ agony/ defeat?? For a Super Sophomore Class>
LOCKER AT THE ROCK ON 1/24/83 IF On Notre Dame Ave Good condtllon. 9 

Need R1de To Connecticut For SpringFOUND. PLEASE CALL GARY AT mo lease. $335 per mo. Call 684-0933 JUGGLER Break Will Share Usual. Please Call Dan 
SMC Class of '85 Vote· MANION KAR­Sandy Outlaw, I love you'-Leon R >4388. REWARD$$$ (local call) The Juggler 1S now accepting f1ct1on, 
at 6824 
NATZpoetry. essays photography, graphiCS, 
etc. for the Spnng 1983 ISSue. Submis­SAAS Gee, college is such a neat experience!

lOST!!!! NOTRE DAME class nng. A NEAT & NEAR NO, FURN 2 BDR POS­A TTENTJON all those who know the 
NOLANGOLD 3, Sions should be turned 1n at the English

COLD lad1es dmner nng, w1th a SIBLY AVAIL. IMMEDIATELY 233-proper terms for. a carbonated drink. what for JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS 
Off1ce .309 O'Shag (Juggler ma•lbox). Paul · you ROTC BBall stud {I love how :.-tone. lnscnpt1on on 1ns1de is-B.B F. '84 7631 you blow your nose w1th, what you wear 
If found please call BRIDGET at 8565, on your teet when you 1og, play tenn1s, or you dnbble over Hope you
·un;lareral Nuclear Freel6? · · all me)
or JIM at 3274. Or come by 325 Lew1s or NEEDED. MALE ROOMMATE TO chase roaddrunners. If you can answerUSA 0 St Mary's Jumors! enjoyed your first secret g1h-but no more216Keenan. Please help'! THANK YOU!! SHARE APARTMENT AT CAM-PUS the above and 1f you can say p-1-n-k w1thUSSR. UNLIMITED "All for one and one FOUR all.. · unt1l we play Wtth your crutcn(es) some
VIEW. INQUIRE AT 277-1708. two syllables. understand a K-Mart )oke.
Push for Bilateral Agreements Murph Pres more 
LOST: A PAIR OF NAVY BLUE NYLON have seen a tumbling tumbleweed. y'all1sVote NO on Feb 8 Your secret sweetheart. RH
STUDENT RENTAL 3~BDRM . HOUSE Drake V.P ~HEY WERE DROPPED SOMEWHERE Coors JS made from then you too can be a 
F1UNNING PANTS ON MONDAY JAN 31. second nature and you worsh1p the water 
NEAR CAMPUS ON S BEND AVE CALL A>sthorpe Sec
ATTE:N'rt6N SMC'!! 

239-6244 or 283-8657 Walsh .Trea
:;ETWEEN LEWIS AND GRACE. IF member of the ROADRUNNER CLUB
ELECT .. for the Class of 84!! VOTE on Feb. 1Oth . OUND PLEASE CALL KEVIN x1592 Call lynn the Lush x2734 orTnsh the F1sh 

LATE NIGHT IS BEST x2191 tor details. Springsteen lovers Ela>ne HOCTER SPB Approved Off-campus house for rent Fur­
nished 823 N.D Ave. Call277-3461. Lee Ann FRANKS VPSA seca·~·cs~;,oo;. C~vam~~gh ·.:~11mp:. -~~-nts


need not apply
Madeline HOCH VPAA to meet audac1ous female snow f1ghter SJS: I LOVE YOU! MTK FOUND: A book and gloves 1n 207 Cus­Student Body Officers! 

Panetals aren't o~er yet! Call1418. 
h>ng. Call Tim at 8428 to cla1m. Vote Thurs. Feb. 10 
South Quad: 

a Dear "Mag1c Hands" Meegan­
LOST: Yellow folder with Notre Dame Marned? Engaged? Searching for 
You may have taken our flag, 

mar-ac­I'm tiCkled to death by you! Sa1nt Mat y's students DO YOU CARE

WANTED~
emblem on the front e1ther last Monday or safe,healthy,effectlve and ally John BUT WE HAVE TAKEN YOUR PRIDE I ENOUGH TO SEND THE VERY BEST?

Tuesday (2/1 Or 2/2) labeled "Chnst1an ceptable means of planmng preg­North Quad Rules! 
Buv OBSERVER Vatentme personals at
Scriptures" If found please call Debbie nancies? Call 237-7401 to reg-1ster for Happy Birthday, Joe H.! From Pat & Pat the·Sa1nt Marys othce. H1 tne basement of 234-7961. Thanks. Natural Fam1ty Planmng class starting 

Reg>r>a South, 12:30 lo 3 p.m .. Monday Need nde to Holland or Grand Raptds. BIIISe•tter-Attenf>on Students -Male & Female -Can through Fnday 
Wed Feb.9 on campus. LOST: 1/2 carat diamond on gold sett1ng 

M1ch. on Feb. 11 or 12 Mary 7994. Revenge 1s commg!!! (slowly) you g>ve a year to use your sk>lls to serve
for necklace either 1n Bus1ness Bldg. or . cli'rcii THArsOi>ii.si>tFiti't poor country? A
s•gned, your favonte freshman the of .our ManantstACC on Wednesday, 2/2. Call 277-0458 VOTE: Anne Mane KOLLMAN-Pres. 
WANTED: R1de to Terre Haute or Indy on p.s.--my s1ster has a perm like yoursl!! Voluntary Servtces representative wtll be Lf~t h1m know how
Samt M~ry s studentearly A.M. She1la FLOOD-V.P

Feb 11-13. L1sa x3352 on campus on Tuesday & Wednesday. 
(little) yoy care . Buy ObserverKath1 HARTWEGER-Sec'y Cathenne 1s the greatest'!!' Feb. 8 & 9 1n the Library Concourse to Valentu1c perstJn.:ilS. len cents per sevenLOST!!! ND CLASS RING('83). NAME Augh! Need nde to Dekalb, Ch1cago, or Gretchen WROBLEWSKI· Tres recrwt students and answer questions characters tAnd they say you can·t buyINSIDE LOST POSSIBLY AT ANYWHERE on way, Feb.11·13. Help! on Feb. 10 Well Bonzo, I was go•ng to put 1n an ad for Call 239-52931or more info love) Come OBSERVER

SMC(MOREAU-O'LAUGHLIN HALL), Patnck x 1600 your B-day (yes, a b1t late. but still). BUT to the SMC 
offtce tn tne basement of Regma South,"LOOK FOR THE WOMEN" MOVIE

LAST SEEN OVER THE WEEKEND OF s•nce you -------about 1t so much, I VALENTINE'S DAY IS ALMOST HERE. 
12:30to 3 p.m, Monday through Fnday 1/28-1/30; IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO Philadelphia. Need nders to Ph1lly teav1ng WEEK won·t.So HAPPY BIRTHDAY SEND A CARNATION! ON SALE IN

Tomght 'Blue Angel" 7:00,$1, SMC Car· 

PLEASE CALL 283-3346 Thurs Call T1m 1584 MARKI!!(Oh, ----you, R1ck!) SOUTH DINING HALL. FEB 8-12. 
Maybe therE'·s a Newark 1n lndaana too? 
roll Hall 

--------·------·------------------------------­
The Observer 
In weekend meets 
Swimmers glide to wins 

Brian Casey, AI Harding, Bill meter diving events, and Karen Sports Writer Green, Gary Severyn, and Tim Bob­Bobearswam to victories in the I 00­dan also won individual events for and 200-yard breaststroke events. 
The Notre Dame men's swim Notre Dame. The 400-yard medley relay team, 
team extended its win streak to four Casey won the 200-yard while AI consisting of Gina Gamboa, Debbie 
and lifted its record to 6-2 by swim­Harding's time in the 200-yard Karling, Sheila Roesler, and Jean 
ming past Toledo, 65-48, over the freestyle led the field. Green took Murtagh also won. 
weekend. first in the 50-yard free. Gary In addition, other individual win­
Coach Dennis Stark obviously was Severyn was victorious in tfie I 00-ners were: Joan Burke ( 1 000-yard pleased with the outcome. Usually yard free. Bohdan picked up the final free), Gamboa ( 1 00-yard l.M. ), only a few people on the team would win of the day, g~tting first place in Karen Korowicki ( 200-yard free), swim well, carrying the others. But the 200-yard backstroke. Raili Tikka (I00-yard backstroke), on Saturday, everything came to­The next meet for the men swim­Roesler (200-yard fly), Julie Boss gether. mers will be against Purdue, tomor­(50-yard free), Murtagh (100-yard 
row at 6 p.m. at the Rockne Pool. free), Verrette Cochiolo ( 200-yard 

Blaise Harding was the only The women's swimming team had backstroke), Karen McCaffrey ( 500­
double winner for the Irish. He won equally good fortune against yard free), and Valerie Harris ( 1 00­
the 200-yard individual medley and DePauw, coasting to a 84-59 victory. yard fly). 
was also part of the winning quartet Notre Dame won all but one event The women swimmers evened 
who placed first in the 400-yard on its way to the win. their record at 5-5 and must get 
medley relay. He joined Paul Benz, There were two double winners ready to participate in the Indiana 
Dan Flynn, and Greg Bohdan for the for the Irish women. Mary Amico Colleges State Meet Saturday in 
victory. placed first in both the one and three Greencastle, Ind. 
By THERON ROBERTS 
• • . Matmen 
teams as Drake (who has won the injury. Skinner beat Louis Carnesale 

continuedfrom page 12 
tournament the last two years), Mar­in a wrestledown when the latter Notre Dame wrestler Mark Fisher once again played a major role quette, Augustana, and host wanted to move down to 150 from
Irish coach Bruno was satisfied for Brother Bruno's squad over the weekend as it competed in 
Wheaton . . . . Doug Skinner, just 158 ....The Irish wrestlers spent

with his team's showing at Biola but California. Fisher, who last week set an Irish record for most vic­
returning from arthroscopic sur­part of Sunday at Disneyland free of

was especially pleased with the per­tories in a season, added to his record-setting total as the Irish gery, has moved into the 150 lb. spot charge before returning to the
formances of Fisher and Golic be­swept both ends ofa triangular meetandplaced in the top halfofa 
previously held by Scott Bentivenga, dreariness of South Bend early yes­

cause their victories over these 20-team field in the Biola 1nvitational.]effBlumb reports on the 
who went out with a serious neck terday morning.

, nationally-ranked opponents will performance ofthe wrestlers on the back page. (Photo courtesy of help his squad at the Midwest the wrestling office) Regionals. 
.,...._........................-..~.-................,....~ ..............................~.~..............................~., 
"Any time we beat one of those 
~ What are you doing for Spring Break? cqme... i
guys, it's good for us because it helps us in the regional seedings," says • • . Belles i C.~ \\\ ~ 0uo\'i 0.. i Bruno. 
l ~otO~O· \Ot\\S~~'\\(W\: i
It will give the Irish mpre advan­
jumped off 22-5 lead, but had to l 0' \\)t\ & s . i 
tageous matches at the end of the continuedfrom page 12 
struggle from there. Thomas More i Cl s\uoe'C\ <'so(\t'~ I ~ 
month at the University ofKentucky 
battled back to take a 37-32 halftime ~ ~~e s~o ®
when they compete in the Midwest added 11 and 10 respectively. r steamboat springs, colorado i
lead before Saint Mary's regained the

Regionals. l Trip includes: i
Suess was named to the all­
momentum in the second half.

Bruno cited Golic's win over the i 5 fun days and 6 wild nights Wine and Cheese Party r
tourney team. She was the only 
"We came out and scored on our

Cal Poly wrestler as a prime example ( Luxury condominiums with fireplaces and jacuzziis l
member ofthe all-tourney team not first possession and stole the ball and 

of how Notre Dame will benefit. Be­\ Quality equipment rentals for a low orice St. Patrick's Day Party ~ 
to come from one of the two teams scored again," said Rouse of the cause Cal Poly is in the same region 
in the championship game. Belle's turnaround in the second r Join in the fun--stop by the S.U. and sign up!! i 
as the Irish, Notre Dame will get a McGinnis continued on her torrid half. "We came back and held them l Deadline for signups is Feb. 11 i , better seeding at the heavyweight shooting pace canning I2-of-20 ,..._................................~..,............,...~........-·..............................-...............................-...........,..
to 24 points in the second half

' slot. 
from long-range over the weekend. 
"We definitely have to cut down

But Bruno was most pleased by Rebounding played a key role in 
on turnovers," he went on. "When

the way that his team, composed of the tourney for the Belles. Saint 
we cut down on turnovers and play

mostly freshmen and sophomores, Mary's got battered on the back­
good defense, we're very effective. It 

stood the test on the Coast trip. 
boards by Transylvania, 40-29. In 
carries over into our offense."

"The level of competition was as the consolation game, Saint Mary's 
The return of Nolan also helped

high as we had anticipated it would clobbered Thomas More 60-32 on 
the Belles over the weekend. Nolan,

be arid it was a good gauge ofwhere the glass. 
who has appeared in just two games

our program is at," said Bruno, "I "Rebounding was one of our 
since Christmas vacation, was

really think that we have a lot of problems against Transylvania," said 
cleared by her doctor on Thursday.

potential." 
Rouse. "We were getting only one 
"It gives us more depth when

"Crown and Golic's doing as well shot against them." 
Trisha and Chip (Ayotte) are able to 

as they did is a good sign," continued The Belles grabbed just six of­play," said Rouse. "We've goneBruno. "Anyone who can win a fensive rebounds against Transyl­
through most of the year without

couple is doing very good. And Fis­vania. As a result, Saint Mary's put up 
that. It will definitely help us out

her's win over the guy from Nevada­just 49 shots and found the range on 
when someone is not doing their job

Las Vegas is certainly excellent 
or needs ofbreather."

because we have him for another Thomas More contest, the Belles 
While gaining some depth the

year." 
were able to get second shots, firing 
Belles may have lost some. Mary

IRISH ITEMS The Irish up 25 more shots than in the pre­
McQuillan suffered a possible con­

wrestlers next travel to the Wheaton 
vious game and connecting on I3 of cussion and was taken to Saint Invitational Saturday. The 20-or 22-them. ­
Joseph's Hospital. She was expected

team tournament will feature such Against Thomas More the Belles 
to spend the night for observation. 




SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
Special Price on Soft Lenses 


$99 pair price 

Price Includes: *Daily wear soft contact lenses *Professional and fitting fees *Free cold care solution kit *Free training in proper handling Call one of our convenient locations today for an appointment. Present this ad for the Special $99 price. 
Professional Vision Associates ... the professionals in eyecare. 
1635 N Ironwood 277·1161 2211 S. Michigan St. 289·7272 Bellville Shopping Ctr. 287 ·5949 



r-----------------------------------,
:  Makes any  :  
:  other bar  :  
1I 1 .I  look like 1•1 , Rott'Pcz,. 'Rooh. 1 ·~ I  
I  I  
:  Lowest liquor prices in town!!  :  
I  I  
I 1  24 oz glass of any draft beer $1.10  I 1  
I I  -­------­Mon. · Thurs. SPECIAL for any N D·SMC students:  I I  
:  _  Pitcher~f b_:;r ~00 & ~50_  _  :  
I  -­ I  
I  '"' ND-SMC night is TUESDAY with  I  
:  _FREE popcorn and beer specials  :  
I  - COrnerOt lronwoOdandMisha;aka A;­ - I  



'-------------------------------------J 
The Observer Tuesday, February 8, 1983 -page 10 

Shari Matvev, the Notre Dame u•omen's basketball record book, goes upfor c1 shot. Mike Riccardiprofiles the originalfranchise on the back puge. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
Name

! l 
l 

State 
t 
·­
GRAND PRIZE: One student will win a free full-year's tuition. SECOND PRIZE: On each college campus, one winner will receive $50 towards a romantic dinner for two. SPECIAL BONUS: On Valentine's Day, the first 100 students who bring their entry forms to their campus bookstore will receive a red "silk" rose. 
OFFICIAL RULES 1. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY ...To enter. com­plete and deposit the Official Entry Form m the Cafe Amaretto entry box at your partic1pat1ng college bookstore. 
2. Alternat~ means of entry. If you do not ~1sh to. or cannot. v1sit 
t~t~ ~~~~:ft~~js~~~~~~t~~~.. ~~t~~?g~t~~~~/~7~~~:~~g~:.~!?: 
10046. In additiOn. pnnt the full name of your college on the lower­
left-ha~d ~orner of your maihng enverope. You may also enter by 
.~~A~'A~~~~TIO~~~ :'39, ;o5r:J~~~8ag1d~~~;nd the words 
3. Enter as often as you like. but each entry rriust be sent by first­class ma11 (one entry per envelope) or depos1ted separately No mechanically reproduced entnes All entnes must be deposited by March 7. 1983 and mat! entnes recetved by March 31. 1983 to be 
:~·~~~eG~;~~~~z~·:~ ~en~~~a~~ ~g~~~;· t~~~n tor one person 'The 
Grand Pnze wtnner will be selected •n a random draw1ng from all entnes rece1ved pnor to the deadline by Marden-Kane Inc an Inde­pendent Judgtng organ1zat1on whose dectstons are f1nal Pnze pay­ment Will be made 1n the wmner's name dtrectly to the college or umverstty at whtch he she IS regtstered Payment wtll be maae upon submtsston and venftcatton of documents 1den!lfymg the wtnner as a 
reg•stered student. as well as requtred 1nvo1ces fm twt•on payment the current year Will be re•mbursed Taxes. tf any, are sole responsi­bility of w•nner No transfer, exchange or subst•tut•on of pr1ze Grand Pnze wtnner will be not1fled by ma1l and w1ll be reqUired to s1gn an Aff1dav1t of Ehgib11tty and Release Odds of wmn1ng the Grand Pnze 

g.e~(on~ ~~2~ ~~;t~cY;a~:;;go~g~7~~:~ ~~~~~~~er of a $50 DO gtlt cert•f­1cate tor a d1nner for two w•ll be selected m a random draw•ng Odds of wtnntng depend upon the number of entnes rece1ved at each 
college 
6. 
~pec1al bonus 100 handcraf!ed roses w111 be handed out at par­tiCipating bookstores on Valentme's Day, February 14, 1983. to the f1rst 100 students thai deposJt their entry forms that day 

7. 
Sweepstakes open only to registered college students 18 years of age and older who are res•dents of the Untied States and are from part1C1pat1ng colleges. except employees (and the1r fam111es) of General Foods CorporatiOn. 1ts affiliates subs1d1anes. agenc1es and Marden-Kane. Inc V01d where prohtb1ted by law All federal. state and loc.allaws and regulations apply. 

8. 
All w•nners w111 be not1f1ed by mail prov1ded the wmn1ng partiCI­pants are available at the addresses shown on the1r entry bJar.ks, or have furnished sweepstakes OfflcJals wtlh the proper forwarding address prtor to the pate of the draw1ng 9.-For a list of the Grand Pnze and grit certificate winners. ma11 a 



··...~~~jlf ··-····-········ ~~~:.~~ ~~v~~~~d8. ~glfC~1~ressed
~~~~;:~<;;;~'~;;,;~;or )1!'=-j!J~;~·---=~i
and does not elect to i CAfE Fn.w:M ~~:....;;;;, ; 1 
enroll1n a graduate t _..,.,..,,-:--f~,;;,..d 1-i:ti-J£~~~::... i ((~~..~~.~~ ~2f~e~~0N~ ~2~~ 5New program. tu1t1on for · .. d York. NY 10046 

QENfiW. fOOOI
GENERAL FOODS'" INTERNATIONAL COFFEES. 
. ·©General Foods Corporallon 1983 AS MUCH A FEELING AS A FLAVOR. 

Enter today! Deposit coupe:') at: The Huddle Student Center 
W'##dfff,.o/ff/'.0'.1"ff/Yr:'i?/W&?7YflW4(1@?7/i?ff&$///W#d1ffffd?$##ff.y/?YfffftY$ffffff,0W@}ZW4?i0?%%1%%"'%?2"'»'-~''::'?1%%'07-MMY~· 5%10".:(:@%­
Sarajevo has 12 hotels with 2,675 beds, but only four are up to interna­tional standards. Bookings made either through the official Olympic travel agency or through the organizing committee, confirmed and even re-confirmed, proved to be just dead letters on paper. 
continuedfrom page 12 
exploding on us. I've had a taste of something different every year. 
"When we went Division I with­out ever playing in Division II, it was a big surprise. We heard rumors about it all (freshman) year, but when we were told (after NO's ap­-pearance in the national tourna­ment), we couldn't believe it." 
An alumnus who remembers the "old days" is 1980-81 captain, and fellow member of the 1981 academic all-America team, Maggie Lally. 
"I can't believe they've brought it this far this soon," said Lally at a recent Irish women's game. "And while I always thought Shari had the ability (to play Division I ball), her improvement has been incredible." 
"She is one ofthe best natural ath­letes I've ever had," says DiStanislao. "She certainly has the tools to play in 
• Division I, and she's become one of the mainstays ofa Division I team. "She's more consistent, and has learned to a lot of different things, especially on defense. In that respect, she's a much better player now than she was three years ago." 
The transition hasn't been easy for Matvey. Learning defense, for ex­ample, was a challenge for a player who, at Austintown Fitch High School in Youngstown, onw, never 
HELP!! Ombudsman needs volunteers to answer phonesfor lhour a 
week.  Help answer  
N.D.'s  questions and  
N.D.'s  complaints.  

Call 239-6283 and help OBUD help the campus. 
out a 
be finished 
at of 
the 
work and 
group of unlucky newsmen. 
Their bus skidded off the road, overturned. and ended up in a ravine. No one was seriously hurt. 
Language problems proved exasperating. 
• • • Matvey 
had to pick up the skill. 
"I was unaccustomed to playing defense," says Matvey, "and Mary D. C~J:lleS in, and her focus is totally on defense. We'd spend over an hour on it at practice, so I had to force myselfto learn it." 
Something she hasn't had to force herselfto learn, in between catching game films and practice time, is her pre-med curriculum. Matvey should follow ex-teammate Lally to medical school next year. 
As a senior, Matvey has to feel left out, in a way. After everything she has done for the team over the last four years, she will miss the fruits of her labor. She must leave after this season, allowing the underclassmen to take the program the final step to national prominence. She looks back on her career with sa.tisfaction, but prefers to look ahead. 
"It (being a senior) keeps you pus­hing, working hard to acheive your goals," says Matvey-. "But I look around and see how far we've come as a team, and it's absolutely amazing." 
The amazing rise of the Irisll women may not culminate this yeat. But when Notre Dame does com­plete its final step, it will be difficult 
to  erase  the  contribution  of the  
school's  tlrst  franchise  player  - 
Shari Matvey.  



STUDENT DISCOUNT 

s~~ 
ce I? 

~1\1~ 
20 0/0 OFF 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student I.D. Offer not valid with any other Aurelio's special or discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
C<..>Oll UUO'Ik>
277 4950 
OIIIDI,ll\ • 'o\.\ll-\111£ 


IheJ)~rver============~==========================~ 


~~~~~============================T=u=e=s=d=ay='=F=e=br=u=a=ry==8=,1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e=l==l
Bloom County 
~--------------~ 
OOf I -miNK W€ CAN

MR. BINKl£Y .i'.OJW YOO 
flJ...50 P6RE£1HAT R€A[)IN0

Pf:JRf£.11-tAT Yf.R NOT 5'f'Cf.IE.l? 
1HE. NO!t. Ol!f WJCI 101HE.

10 I3E. fi:\551N0 NOTE~ 10 ~mu: 

Yf..5l FIN£. 
YE;5. CLASS WOVU? BE. VN~­

01RL5-W'WA~Y WH~N 1'M 
<11, liWt:UtY 
£55ARl(.Y HVMIUATJN0...

YIJ.JR SV6Sm lEAaiE.R 1 
Yf-~.' 



000600 
FIN£. 

IJj,~fl.-• 


Simon 
I lfl,fj !fE/ILLi' SfilftlfiSEf) TO SE£ Y(}(f .JERYIIVG DRIIVJ\'.:5 
I WfiS JtJ,5T :51TTI/V6 ON 
THEN 1/£ GIIVE1 . !Je/11//Y/)£/) Tl{8f l 11/Y 

fir Til£ Mlf ursr 111611r. 
THE MR, fiiVlJ ~E Gf!Y 
11f 11 8/G TIP.
I 
.~ :0 I J<J:,T 1(£/'J
Hlt1 II ,J£VE!V fl./[) ~EVEN. 


Fate 
)eb Cashin 
CEE, /f)W f)!D YO(J KNOW !Itt OF THE fl?!cEs? 

Photius 
Berke Breathed 


, Campus·
''10 MY 

• 
All Day -Elections, Student body president and vice presidentt, Student senate, Nuclear Freeze Referendum, Campbell's boycott, 

•12 
p.m. -White Center Brown Bag, "\'alue Ordering in Constitutional Law," Dr. Walter F. Murphy, 101 Law School 

•12 
p.m. -Slide Show, "The Campus in Four Seasons: Winter," Sister Maria Assunta Werner and joe Bonadies, 232 Moreau Hall 8 --1:1 S p.m. -Presentation, Information on careers for psychology and economics majors, 103 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Placement Bureau 


8 4:30 p.m. -Biology Seminar, "The Silkmoth Chorion: Organization and Expression of a Multi­gene Family." Dr. Gerald Beltz, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium · •-p.m. -Film, "The Blue Angel," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SMC SAPB, S 1 
•7 p.m. -Colloquium of Life in the Middle Ages, "The Book in the Middle Ages," Sara Peters, SMC Little Theatre 8 7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "The Gauntlet," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Sempre Fi, 
$1 

•9 p.m. -Right to Life General Meeting, Guest Speaker Michael jones, LaFortune Little Theatre 8 10 p.m.-Call in Talk Show, Speaking ofSports, Will Hare, WSND-AM 64 
T.V. Tonight 

6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
7:30 
8:00p.m. 
8:3op.m. 9:00p.m. 
10:00p.m. llp.m. 

16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS News 

28 ABC World News Tonight 
34 Making It Count 
16 MASH 

22 Laverne & Shirley 
28 Joker's Wild 

34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 
16  Allin The Family  
22  Family Feud  
28 34  Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk  •  
16  TheA Team  
22  Walt Disney  
28  Happy Days  
34  Nova  
28  Laverne and Shirley  
16  Gavilan  

22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 28 Winds of War 34 American Playhouse 16 St. Elsewhere 
16 NewsCenter I6 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
... 

l 
l 
I 
I 
~ 
l 
MASTEP., Yov. Af..f SO WIS~. 
NOH.( O,._t'l[ IS UK( 

W¥\f IS ilii:'M£'AN/Nq 
A 1314TTERFLY. 

Of NOTRE DM1£?' 
I




You. HfAN ... NOT£( OAI1f ISN'T Ltl(( A 
Bl.tTTfRFW? 
ACROSS 24 A Gershwin 1 Italian 25 Prepares




The Daily Crossword 
tourist for a bout 
city 26 Sparse 5 Leans over 28 Pier area 10 Sulk des· 31 Normandy 
pondently city 14 Birds col· 32 Allen or 
lectively Frome 15 Bay window 34 California 16 Champagne fort 
cooler · 35 "-a kick 17 Cavil out of you" 18 Cattle 36 "Over-" 
roundup 37 Obstacle 19 Wound 38 Beat reminder 39 Acting 20 City out· parts skirts 40 May or 22 Skirt folds Hatteras 

Monday's Solution 




© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rtghts Reserved 
218/83 

~~~~)Wi(i~}IC(~~~-I ~-.
1CRemtnd ~omeone tt·~ 
aQmo~t ~plttng:  
1CDa~ffJdLQQgi C[)ot,gLeg  .50 1.95  
-CBouquetg  4.00  
C~ocug cpQo~tg  g_2S  
cAt  The Irish Gardens  
Hours: 12:30-S::SO  Dial M-U ·M-5 (6867)  

\ 


10 Penny pinchers 11 Furniture 
item 12 Bog fuel 13 Goes astray 21 Hastened 23 Once around 
the track 25 Stock unit 26 Astronomer 
Carl 27 Four-letter 
words 28 Clam's home 29 Arrange 
in folds 30 Border 31 Quote 33 Oarlock pin 37 Shellfish 
delicacies 42 More torrid 43 Regret 45 Brimless 
hat 48 Retail store 49 Cattle, 
to poets 50 Rational 51 Once-a 
time 52 Lively 53 Part of 
speech 54 Tryout 57 Hiatus 41 Captivate 44 Weighing 
machine 46 Cosmetic 47 Hgt. 48 Rink 
athlete 50 Replace 55 Suggestion 56 Wideopen 58 Woodwind 
instrument 59 Formerly 60 Stately 
home 61 Addition sign 62 Social 
equal 63 Usedup 64 Ordered 
to depart 
DOWN 1 Rate of 

progress 2 Czar's name 3 Doorway for 
delivery men 4 Ambitious 
one 5 Buii:Sp. 6 Golf club 7 Potcovers 8 Pipe 
fitting 9 Untidiness 



The Far Side 


''ch-c h-<:n-ch<h-cf-... '' 



,J;;;t ... 
eeeeee'WA-WA-~A 


•. KEE ~o ,KEE~o" 


Animals and their mating songs 
Go skiing for the night with the Student Union!  {  
Where? Swiss Valley Ski Resort in Michigan When? This Friday, Feb 11 What time? 5 pm --11:15 pm  ~  

How much? $12 includes lift, rentals, and transportation Tickets are on sale at the record store, 1st floor, LaFortune 
""'111..1C!·,_,··.,.,-.,.·.,-,,._,,.._ ...·_,·. .··.·. . Optional beginners lesson $1
·-lll.G-fai--))!M(~;XCI(,J-·~ ., tlli!iillffi. :;:-li511(~~ ,___ . 

• 

.­
-
l 
I l 
t 
.. 

---~ 
Tuesday, February 8, 1983 -page 12
S~orts 


After tourney split 
Belles fall to Valparaiso 
By DAVE IRWIN chipped in eight points, six in the six points after being on a recent hot Sports Writer final ten minutes, and pulled down streak. She was three of I3 field goal six rebounds. shooting. After snapping a six-game losing Rouse had hoped to use the 'That killed u~," said Rouse. "If 
streak over the weekend in the Belles' speed to wear down the she had been on, its a different Hanover Tournment, the Saint more physical Valparaiso team. In· game." Mary's basketball team dropped a stead, Valparaiso beat the Belles at The Hanover tournament was also 
66-54 decision to Valparaiso Univer­the transition game while battering marked by some good individual ef­sity last night at the Angela Athletic them on the backboards 57-40. forts as Elaine Suess canned I I of I2 Facility. Valparaiso also forced Saint Mary's free throws and totaled I5 points in 
Saint Mary's defeated Thomas into 29 turnovers while commiting the Belles opening game loss in the More (Ky.), 74-61, in the consola· 2:3 itself. Saint Mary's canned just 2<i Hanover tourney. McGinnis popped tion game ofthe Hanover tourney to of its 79 Held goal attempts. in seven-of-nine field goal attempts break its losing string after dropping "They were tough on the boards," for I4 points. their opening game 65-5:3 to Tran· said Rouse. "They had some horses In the. consolation game, center sylvania (Ky.). Hanover eventually and some jumping ability. Van On pumped horne 23 points on won the tourney. "Turnovers seemed to hurt us," nine of !6 field goal shooting and 
The Belles, facing in Valparaiso a he continued. "Every time we made snared I9 rebounds. Suess added I 5 Division II school that otfers scholar· a run and got it close we'd have a points while ,McGinnis and Nohin ships, hung tough through three couple of turnovers in a row." 
see BELLES, page 9

quarters of the game. They trailed Teresa McGinnis was limited to .P-36 and had the ball, but taded in the last eight minutes. 
"We didn't back down to them," said Saint Mary's head coach Mike 
Wrestlers fare well 
Rouse. "We meant the challenge. We have nothing to be ashamed of. We need that dfort all the time." 
Missy Van Ort continued to play 
on West Coast trip 
well since returning from a mid· ByJEFF BLUMB remarked Irish coach Bro. Joseph
season injury. The sophomore cen­
Sports Writer Bruno, C.S.C., "and I think they
ter tallied 14 points on 7-of-16 were.'" 
shooting from the tloor and snared The Notre Dame wrestling team Long Beach State also proved to nine rebounds to lead the Belles in 
did tairly well on their trip to Califor­be a formidable opponent. Golic led both categories against Valparaiso. 
nia last weekend, but, more impor­the way, pinning hb foe, while co­Van Ort has averaged 17.1:! points 
tantly, gained some valuable captain Don Heimzelrnan deci­and 14.8 rebounds over the last four experience. sioned his in the runaway victory. 
comests. 

The Irish grapplers won both ends Having gained confidence. the "She played more aggressive on 
of a triangular meet on Friday, wrestlers moved on to the Bible In­
offense tonight," said Rouse. "We've 
before placing ninth in the 20-tearn stitute of Los Angeles for the Biola been looking for that all year long." 
Biola Invitational Saturday. Invitational. Cindy Short added eight points The triangular meet was the high· The Notre Dame team may not and seven rebounds. Trisha Nolan 
light ofthe trip as Notre Dame raised have done as well as it might have its season record to I7·2 by sweep­hoped. but it was once again the day ing Cal State Fullerton and Long of the individual for the Irish. Fisher Beach State by scores of 34-10 and and Golic led the way for the Irish, 38-1 5, respectively. taking fourth and third, re~pectively. Many fine individual perfor· · Fisher, in raising his season mark 
mances were turned in against to a record 38-9, beat the tourna­Fullerton. Freshman Eric Crown, a ment's No. 2 seed, a nationally­
Matvey brings Irish near top 
By MIKE RICCARDI (Tia) Sossamon, their inside this transition," says Matvey, called 1I8-pounder, was most impressive, ranked wrestler from the University 
pinning his opponent in 40 seconds. of Nevada-Las Vegas. 
Sports Writer people." "Skippy" by DiStanislao and her Other wrestlers who won their
Matvey's career is the history of teammates. "We've come a long way Golic, a first year wrestler better weight class were Mark Fisher, Doug
The name appears in the school's women's basketball here. She is the in, really, a very short period oftime. known for his football prowess, now Skinner, and Mike Golic. Phil Baty
record book 30 times. only current member of the squad Sophomore year was the transition stands at an impressive 21-3, aided The player has had the highest who is a veteran ofthe 1979-80 team year, and it was just an overwhelm· also was a winner decision at 167. by his five tournament wins. Al­scoring season at Notre Dame since that made it to the final 16 in the ing thing to play another Division 1 The performance of Notre Dame though the sophomore lost one 
against Fullerton is all the more irn· match en route to his third-place
the departure ofall-American Adrian AlA W Division lll national tourna· team. Then we started winning Dantley. ment. some games last year ...and now, it pressive when one takes into ac­finish, he did beat a nationally­The player has been named an The 6-1 senior's first two seasons (going big-time) is all kind of count the relative strength of their ranked foe from Cal Poly-Pomona. team. "I thought Fullerton would be
academic All-America, and has were record-breaking ones for her. 
see MATMEN, page 9

see MA1VEY, page 10 stronger than Long Beach,"scored more than 1,000 points in a By the beginning of her junior year, distinguished career. 19H 1·82, the Youngstown, Ohio, 
The player is Shari Matvey -native had led the team in scoring which shouldn't be a surprise. She is for two seasons running and was al· an exceptional blend of finesse, ready the possessor of of 3'! 

Can lightning strike twice? 
grace, and skill, who, in her first two women's records. She scored 3 I years with the Irish women, was the 
points in a game twice in 1980 ..:.. franchise. 
which stands as a record that 

History, we are told, repeats itself. 
"Setting the records was fun, and remains unbroken. 

Lightning, on the other hand, never strikes in the 
Skip Desjardin 
With the explosive growth of thethey're great honors," says Matvey. 
same place twice. 
program, and the addition of seven"They're something you cherish be· 

If there is one thing that has typified the recent his­Sports Editor Emeritus 
highly talented recruits, Matvey hadcause you work so hard for them." 

tory of the Notre Dame basketball program, it has been When Shari Matvey graduates this 
to adjust to nor having the Irish ot: 
the electrifying upset.May. she will leave the lJniversity 
fense revolve around her. 

In 1971, Digger Phelps' first season, the Irish lost to with the greatest career by a Notre 
Mat\·ey, a veteran of9-1 collegiate 

Indiana, 94-29. But just two years later, Notre Dame 
starts, never allowed her game toDame female. She is the first female 

pulled off its greatest upset.
is better

to score 1,000 points at NO. For deteriorate. She playing UCLA was No. ' in the country, defending national were honored as the M\'P of the game by ;\IBC Sports.
basketball now than she did when

now, however, she is concentrating champion, and riding an incredible 1:!8-garne winning Last season, the crowd helped ,\like .\litchell and the 
she was rewriting the Notre Dame

on achieving Notre Dame's season streak. Irish get revenge on seventh-ranked San Francisco. 
record books. Her defensive play, as

goal -getting the team in position The Irish shocked the sporting world with a 7 I·70 In ::>etween, there was Bill Hanzlik stopping Butch 
well as and her offensive work, has

to receive a bid to the NCAA Tourna· win that established the program as a national power. Lee and defending national champ Marquette. There
been redefined in the new Irish

ment. Time passed, and Notre Dame, at the behest of the was DePaul in double overtime. There was Virginia ­
scheme.

"This team can make it," assesses federal government, established a basketball program on the road, but bctore a very Iri~h crowd. And there 
"I do play a different role now,"

Matvey. "If we beat everybody from for women. was the awesome, unexpected performance by the stu­
says Matvey. "I have more defined

the Midwest, we should be picked. In 1981, Mary DiStanislao's first season, the Irish lost dents that enabled Notre Dame to erase a susbstantial
responsibilities. It was difficult to ac­

But we can't worry about it on the to South Carolina, 12+-lH. But now, just two years later, deficit en route to a 50--18 win over :'\o. 8 Idaho. 
custom myself to playing around

court." Notre Dame has a chance to shock the sporting world The key, then, to Friday's game with Louisiana Tech 
blue-chip, recruited ballplayers."

The team's post-season fatto'· may with an upset that will establish another program as a could well be the student body. The athletic depart­
Ateam ofblue-chippers, however,

be determined in no small part by national power. , rnent had the foresight to distribute tickets to this game
have coalesced around this "old·

the Irish women's performance Friday night, Louisiana Tech comes to the ACC for along with the men's packet. The ACC should be filled.
timer" to give Notre Dame a blend of

against No. I Louisiana Tech, the what will be, without question, the most ditficult test It is time the people on this campus recognized that
youth and experience that has

two-time defending national cham­ever for DiStanislao's team. The question is: can the they have two basketball teams here. It is time for the
allowed players like Mary Beth

pions. women accomplish that which the men have been able students to show the women the support they deserve.
Schueth and Laura Dougherty to pull

And a large part of that may hinge to do so often? It is the third year ofthe DiStanislao era. "We are win­
the program up to a position to com­

on Matvey's play against Tech's big Tech is the defending national champion. Just like ning the games we should win, and losing the games we 
pete with the nation's top teams.

people. UCLA was. They are prohibitive favorites. Just like a(e supposed to lose," admits the Irish coach. "But it 
Matvey is the constant in this

"( Matvey's) performance will be UCLA was. And they can be beaten. sure would be nice to win one we weren't 'supposed' to 
story. She is the only player to have

critical in the game," says Coach Just like UCLA could. win." 
seen the Notre Dame program's rise

Mary DiStanislao. "And I think she'll The constant in all ofNotre Dame's classic upsets has Friday could be the night.
from the Division lll to Division I.

be able to go head to head with been the student body. In 1977, when the men topped The lightning could strike again.
"It's amazing to get caught up in

(Tech forwards Debra) Rodman and top-ranked and unbeaten San Francisco, the Mudents History .. 





