... VCR~-page 3 

VOL XVII, NO. 77 the indcpcndclll ~tudcnt lll"\\~papcr ~t-r,·ing notre dame and ~aint mary·~ WEDNESDAY,JANUARY 19,1983 
By MIKE WILKINS 
Senior StaffReporter 
A hearing is scheduled for tomor­row to decide if a temporary injunc­tion should be placed against Fan Action. Inc., publishers of Go Irish, to keep the magazine from publish­ing under its current name. 
The hearing is the result of a counter-suit filed by Notre Dame against Fan Action, charging it with making the publication appear to be connected with the t:niversity. Fan Action filed suit against Notre Dame in September alleging that the Sporrs Information Department was interfering with the normal business functions of Go Irish, an independ­ent publication which covers Notre Dame footbalL 
The original suit filed by Fan Ac­tion claims that the Sports Informa­tion Department "had done certain things to interfere with the workings of the publication,"' according to James Groves, attorney for Fan Ac­tion. The suit charges that the Sports Information Department denied Go Irish press credentials and that people from the Sports Information Department had tried to influence other universities not to cooperate with writers and other people from the publication. 
The University's counter-suit charges that Go Irish has been trying to make itself appear to be con­nected with Notre Dame, according to Philip Faccenda, legal representa­tive for the University. 
Included in the charges are the use of the word "Irish," the mast­head which reads "the newsmagazine devoted exxclusive­Iy to the coverage of Notre Dame Fighting Irish Football," the lack of disclaimers stating that the publica­tion was not connected with the University in any way, and other items which allegedly make the publication appear to be connected with Notre Dame. 
Go Irish has a folio at the bottom 
ofeach page declaring it as"An inde-

Hearing to determine future of Go Irish suit 
pendent sports publication." The 
magazine began to  print  a  publis­ 
her's  disclaimer  notice  early  in  
November.  

Roger Valdiserri, director of Sports Information, commented that he did not know why the Go Irish staffthought it was being treated un­fairly. He noted that the University has published regulations regarding the criteria for the issuance of press and photo credentials. 
Those criteria state that "weekly publishing media agencies if less than 100,000 published circulation cannot be accomodated." The cir­culation of Go Irish, published weekly during the football season and monthly during the offseason, is approximately 8,000. 
Valdiserri added that all inter­views must go through the Sports In­formation Department, because of the concern of gambling organiza­tions misrepresenting themselves to the players as media personneL 
See SUIT, page 5 

Fear weak economy 


Businesses call for defense spending cuts 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Three American Stock Exchange and the leading business groups that fear American Business Conference, told gigantic budget deficits will choke a news conference, "The specter of economic recovery urged yesterday expanding deficits of gargantuan that next year's defense spending be proportions threatens to cut off the cut more deeply than the president recovery before it will have had wants. much chance to create a significant Representing some S50,000 number of jobs for the 12 million small, medium and large businesses Americans who are unemployed." nationwide, the group includes the The business conference's members first top business executives to call include about 8S medium-sized 
for more restraints on the 1984 firms in growing industries like high budget. technology. 
The business groups are fearful The two other groups joining in the economy is too weak to recover the budget-reduction call were the from large deficits. Economists also National Association of Manufac­have said annual deficits as high as turers, which represents some $1 SO billion or $200 billion could 12,000 large-and medium-sized severely cramp recovery. manufacturers, and the National 
Arthur Levitt, chairman of the Federation ofIndependent Business, 
Support scientists 

Hesburgh, leaders call for ban 
An international gathering of 1 I religious leaders, including University President Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, and representing the Catholic, Orthodox, Protestant, Anglican, Coptic, and Muslim faiths met with six representatives of national academies of science in Vienna, Austria, last Thursday through Saturday to discuss the threat of nuclear arms. 
The group, which included Cardinal Franz Koenig, Archbishop of Vienna; Hesburgh; Arch­bishop Jean Jadot, president of the Vatican Secretariat for Non-Christians; Archbishop John Roach ofSt. Paul, Minnesota, president ofthe Nation­al Conference of Catholic Bishops; and Methodist Bishop James Armstrong, president of the National Conference of Churches of Christ, focused its dis­cussion on a statement issued in Rome last Septem­ber by SS world class scientists which called for a ban on nuclear warfare and elimination of existing nuclear arsenals. 
At the conclusion of the meeting, which was hosted by Koenig and Hesburgh, the religous leaders issued a joint statement affirming the scientists' call for action. 
"As persons from diverse religious traditions," they said, "we are impressed by the declaration of these eminent scientists. We speak as one to em­phasize that humanity, for the first time in history, has the power to destroy itself We believe that there is no cause that would morally justify the death and destruction caused by a nuclear conflagration." 
Denying the assertion that any side could "win" a nuclear war, the religious leaders said that the "first duty" of their respective faiths was to praise their Creator and to revere human life. 
Lasting peace, they said, "is both a gift of the Creator and a work ofours ...and can only be based upon global justice, respect for the dignity of each person, a conversion of mind and heart regarding war and peace, and, finally, the Creator's call for reconciliation between estranged peoples." 
Denouncing the arms race for its diversion of valuable resources from human needs, the religious leaders called upon national leaders to "repudiate as a means of settling disputes between nation states a destructive force that outstrips our ability to calc­ulate its effects. 
What human beings have made can be unmade, the religious leaders said. "Fatalism must give way to hope. We join the scientists in their call for urgent action to achieve verifiable disarmament agree­ments leading to the elimination of nuclear weapons. Nothing less is at stake than the future of humanity, with its rich and variegated cultures and religious traditions. 
which has a membership of about 540,000 firms. 
Under their plan, the federal deficit would be slashed by 25 per­cent -some SSO billion if the deficit reaches S200 billion or more in the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. 
Future deficits should decline even more, and "no area of the budget should be regarded as sacred," said Alexander Trowbridge, president of the National Associa­tion of Manufacturers. 
He said deficits must be reduced so interest rates fall even further and capital is available to businesses for recovery. Capital for business ex­pansion would be sharply limited if the government were to borrow large sums to finance the federal debt. 
The group specifically called for about half of their recommended 1984 cutbacks -S 18 billion to S23 billion -to come out of the Pen­tagon's budget. 
Reagan said last week that he was willing to trim his record S285 bil­lion military budget plan next year oy s 1 1 billion in current spending and military orders. The cut would reduce actual spending during the year by S8 billion. 
But the business leaders urged an additional SS billion savings by canceling or deferring arms pur­chases and SS billion to S I 0 billion 
in  operations,  maintenance  and  
other areas.  
To help pare  S22 billion to  $30  

billion from the non-military side of the ledger, the groups said a one­year freeze should be placed on pay increases for federal . civilian workers. For federal benefit programs like Social Security. the plan suggested a temporary freeze on all cost-of-living adjustments or a reduction in the amount beneficiaries get in cost-of-living in­
creases. 
The administration has not yet released its plans for specific reduc­tions in non-defense spending, but that savings could run in the vicinity of S40 billion next year. 


More complications arise with Jarvik-7 
SALT LAKE CITY ( AP) -Artificial heart recipient Barney Clark went back into surgery late yesterday to seal two arteries in his left nasal passage that have been bleeding for 10 days, officials said. 
Clark, 61, a retired Seattle area dentist, was wheeled back into sur­gery around 4 p.m. and doctors ex­pected him to be in the operating room for several hours, said john Dwan, a spokesman for the Univer­sity oflltah Medical Center. 
Doctors had sealed Clark's nasal passages last Friday with a balloon­like catheter and packed them to try to stop the bleeding. They tried yes­terday to remove the packing, but bleeding continued in Clark's left passage, Dwan said. 
"The left side continues to bleed 
seriously, so Dr. (William) DeVries 
made the decision to return to sur­
gery," Dwan said. 
DeVries is the surgeon who im­
planted theJarvik-7 artificial heart in 
Clark's chest Dec. 2. 
Yesterday's operation was the third since the heart implant. On Dec. 7, surgeons closed leaking air sacs in Clark's lungs and on Dec. 14, they replaced his left ventricle which contained a faulty valve. 
"All surgery is serious, but Dr. DeVries said this is the least risky of any operations Dr. Clark has had so far," Dwan said. 

~-~~ ~­

News Brie/§ 
By The Obserwr and The Assuciated Press 
The Winters-Greeley countersuits remain in pre­trial litigation. Before either case can go to court, the legal standing of Father Andrew Greeley's claim must be established. Although he is unsure, Winters' attorney, William Maddux, estimates that this 
legal test will be concluded within a month afterwhich the trial proceedings will ensue. Winters, the managing editor of the Notre Dame Magazine, sued the author of the bestselling book, The Car­dinal Sins for $3 million for impeding his career with remarks the priest made on thePhil Donahue Show last April. Greeley retaliated by filing a S5 million countersuit for compensation for the early release of information Winters took with permission from the 
priest's files. -The Observer 
Three men and three women were.shot to death yesterday at a house in a suburb ofVancouver, British Colum­bia, and police said a man was in custody. Royal Canadian Mounted Police Staff Sgt. Brian Scott confirmed the arrest but deferred most questions until a news conference later in the day. The shooting rook place in a house occupied by Richar Blackman, a Vancouver t1reman, his wife Irene and his 16-year-old son Rick. The Blackmans also had an older son and two married daughters. Scott said an arrest had been made but no charges tiled. Outside the Blackman house, shocked friends and neighbors stood and stared as the coroner and police investigated. Police were using a dog on the front lawn where a sporting rifle with a telescopic sight was discovered. -AP 
The Reagan administration, acting under a court order. said yestcrdav it was making S30.4 million available to provide assistance to homeowners and otners who mstall solar devices or make energy conservation improvements. The money is being given to 48 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Mariana Islands, according to the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The money implements a 1980 law establish­ing a Solar Energy and Energy Conservation Bank to provide sub­sidized and direct grants to people making energy improvements in their homes. States last year were asked to submit plans for using the money. The Solar Lobby was among several consumer groups, the state of New York and the cities of Philadelphia and St. Paul, Minn., which sued the administration last year to force establishment ofthe bank. The groups contended that the administration was illegally impounding money appropriated by Congress to get the bank going. A federal court agreed and ordered the administration to start spend­ing the money. -AP 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'NeillJr. plays himself in his television acting debut, a five-minute cameo ap­pearance taped for the NBC comedy series "Cheers." "He knew all his lines perfectly ...the professionalism of the man was un­believable," publicist Dick Winters of Para\llount Television in Los Angeles said yesterday. O'Neill, in California this week to play in the Bob Hope Charity GolfClassic, raped the "Cheers" segment Monday. In the show, O'Neill ducks into a Boston bar to avoid a woman airing her political views. She turns out to be a waitress at the pub, which is the setting for the series. Once inside, the Massachusetts Democrat sits next to Norm, an unemployed accountant played by George Wendt. Norm is complaining that Congress doesn't accomplish any­thing. "This bozo next to me could do better than that bunch of bums," Norm says. He then asks O'Neill: "Are you out ofwork, too?" "No, I'm in the House," O'Neill says. "Got the wife working, huh?" Norm replies. -AP 
A newspaper photographerwho witnessed an apparent kidnapping says he hid behind a tree after photographing three men while they chased and carried away another man at a local park in Lake Elsinore, California. "I didn't want them to carry me off too," said the witness, a photographer for the weekly Lake Elsinore Valley Sun Tribune. "l decided it was best to keep a low profile." Riverside County sheriffs investigators have not identified the man who was abducted Sunday or the three men who chased him. The photographer was interviewed by the Riverside Press Enterprise, which withheld his name base of his fear of reprisals. The witness said he was shooting scenic pictures when he saw one man running down Lakeshore Drive. The man was being chased by one man on foot and two in a pickup, the witness said. As they ran closer to Holiday Park, one passenger in the truck got out and joined the foot chase. The witness said he photographed the incident and jumped behind a tree and bushes when he thought the driver of the truck saw him. -AP 
Entertainer Dolly Parton cancelled concerts this week in Louisiana and Texas because ofa threat against her last week in Owensboro, Ky., The Tennessean reported yesterday. The singer-actress also has hired a Los Angeles detective agency that specializes in investigating threats on the lives ofcelebrities, accord­ing to the newspaper. On Saturday night, Miss Parton cancelled con­certs in the Kentucky city after a woman called police there and said she knew a man who "hated the ground that Dolly Parton walked on" and who was going to harm her. This weekend's concerts were canceled in New Orleans, Beaumont, Texas, and Fort Worth, Texas, the newspaper said. She also has beefed up security at her home in suburban Nashville. -AP 
Mostly sunny and cold today. Highs in the low 20's. Increasing high clouds tonight. Not as cold. Low in the mid teens. Chance ofsnow tomorrow. High in the upper 20's. -AP 

Wednesday,)anuary 19, 1983-page 2 
Security: an elusive feeling 
Saint Mary's students are experiencing an increase in security coverage as of late. A security guard has been stationed in the McCandless parking lot from dusk till 2 
a.m. on an unofficial basis since another assault attempt occurred Dec. 12. 
The additional guard was authorized by Security 
Director Anthony Kovatch. So far, the McCandless 
guard has not been decreed a permanant t1xture t by the 
administration. Other options are still being discussed. 
The McCandless guard is the most sensible step Security has taken since the first assault attempt oc­curred Nov. 5. 
Kovatch previously had requested additional nighttime security oft1cers. The cost of additional coverage is, ofcourse, a major concern. But the safety of the students should be most important. The nightly lock-up procedures take the patrol officers away from their rounds for a total of several hours. There is no doubt that the assaults have proven a need for addition­al coverage. The McCand­less guard should be an officially authorized part of nighttime security. 
Other options include in­stalling a gate at the main entrance to monitor traffic or building a guardhouse near the lor similar to the 1111c-at ill<' m.,in g.1te 
These are hoth feasible 
ideas but the most logical 
solution has been ignored. 

The very fact that both of the assault attempts took place near the McCandless parking lot should raise a few questions. Saint Mary's students who live on campus can't leave their cars in the LeMans lots past early morning without getting ticketed. This forces the majority of students to park in the McCandless lot at night -the most isolated part of campus. Meanwhile, the entire LeMans parking lot sits in the heart of the campus -nearly deserted -all night. 
The very nature ofSaint Mary's as a women's college makes this parking situation an invitation for assault. The McCandless lot is virtually the furthest point on campus from most of the dorms. And the fact that McCandless Hall is not connected to the underground tunnel network makes the parking system even more senseless. 
As long as the LeMans lot is there -and safer due to 
its location -why shouldn't the students use it? 
Right now the lot is used primarily by administration members during the day. Let the stud,ents share the lot with the administration. And when that lot is filled up, let the extracars park in McCandless. There is no reason 
Today Father Hesburgh is: 
in Rome, Italy, attending a meeting of the Pontifical Council for Culture. 

The Observer 

Design Editor... . .............. Maura Murphy 
Design Assistant.. .....Troy Illig 
Layout Staff.. ... Carol Clark 
Typesetters... . ................ Keggie Daniel 
AI Novas News Editor. .. ...... Dave Sarphie Copy Editor........ ................. Diane Dirkers NDDayEditor... . .......... joe Musumeci SMC Day Edifm·... .. ............ Tim Petters Features Layout.. ...Joe Musumeci Editorials Layout................... Tari Brown Sports Copy Editor............ Rich O'Connor Typist .......... ............................ Mary Torchia 
Photographer............................... Ed Carroll 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday lhrough Fr1day and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased lor $25 per year 1$15 per semester) by wnttng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Darne lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a rnernber of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Darne Indiana 46556 ' 

Margaret Fosmoe 
Saint Mary's Exec. Editor 

Inside Wednesday 

from the McCandless lot to his or her office in broad daylight. 
The administration is also responsible for the policy that makes the Public Relations Director the official spokesman for Saint Mary's Security. From personal ex­perience, this often results in long periods of a form of shuttle diplomacy between Security and Public Rela­tions betore their facts coincide. 
The oft1ce of Public Relations is so far removed from 
the business of Secmity that what results is simply Public Relations repeating what Security claims. (An unnecessary bureaucratic hindrance.) For example, Security failed to notify the county sheriffs office after the Nov. 5 assault. Later Kovatch said his officers had contacted the sheriff Puhlic Rclatiuns \'t:niled thi~. lt wa" later learned from the sheriff that, in fact, it was one of the victims that had called the sheriff, two hours after the incident. 
Kovatch, as Director of Security, should have the responsibility ofacting as of ficial spokesman for his department. 
The search for suspects in the two assaults has not progressed. With no further incidents since the Dec. 12 attempt, the responsibility of the investigation has fallen on the sheriffs office. And Sergeant Greg Delinski of the Detective Bureau, who is conducting the investigation, says "We are just in a holding pattern until something breaks." 
With that kind ofofficial attitude eminating from the top, it is unfortunate bur necessary that Saint Mary's stu­dents assume so much responsibility for their own safety. 

The views expressed in the Inside column are toe views of their author and do not necessaril)-' represent the views of The Observer or its editori~/ board. 
why an administrator can't make the five minute walk 
ill£

e • • • .42 
• ENGA(:lED?. 
Marriage Preparation is a diocesan requirement 
.__________________________, 
across the country 
)r 



Weekends still available: February 18-19 April 8-9 
si!9n up at 
..
Campus Ministry-Badin Offices 


C~rl)pUS 
23B -5242

mm1stry
•
r. I I 

The Observer Wednesday,January 19, 1983-page 3 
Ask for support 



Hockey captains speak to HPC 
By DAVID F. TRACY the hockey program here at Notre manent commitment in order to News Staff Dame. The result of that meeting have any bearing on the team's was that the team must come up chances ofsurvival. 
Notre Dame Hockey captains with 2 million dollars in the next Captain Kirt Bjork stated, Mark Doman, John Higgins, Kirt two weeks or face extinction as a "Wisconsin is the only school in the Bjork, and Rex Bellomy were invited Division I college hockey team. country whose hockey program ac­to last night's HPC meeting to dis­The HPC members offered to tually makes money." Even with a lot cuss their situation with the council. push attendance within their in­of student support; it is very tough 
Last Saturday, Executive Vice­dividual dorms and distributed peti­for a hockey program to run in the President. Fr. Edmond P Joyce, tions calling for an upgrading of the black, he explained. Athletic Director, Gene Corrigan, program throughout the dorms. Captain Mark Doman, however, 
and 1.3 parents of hockey players HPC president Mike McAuliffe said feels that ifstudent attendance at the met to discuss the current status of the support would have to he a per-games rises significantly, the ad­ministration will be willing to con­tinue financing the program. Doman said the story went to the 
Assocated Press today and the Uni­versity only can hope for a generous response to the news. But, as captain 
Pedi questions funding 
John Higgins said, "The recruiting 
for the team is already shot for next By PAM RICHARDSON each class or s1.00 per student, to year even if we do raise the 2 mil­StaffReporter be..used at the discretion of the class lion." 
officers. In other news, Todd Hooper of Questions about funding for the Pedi commented that to use a the Student-Alumni Relations Group upcoming sophomore ski trip have large amount of cash to support a .asked the presidents to publicize the caused the class to raise the price of class trip which involves only a small upcoming Alumni Board's visit to the trip by n 1. minority of the class "could open it the dorms tomorrow. The presi­
The increase in the cost occurred up to criticism." dents were also reminded to notify after the class announced that its al­He continued that projects such students of the upcoming off-· lotted funding was not going to be as ski trips "should be self­campus housing deadling. 
used, as thought, to pay for the buses sufficient." He gave the example of to take students to Timberidge Ski the senior trip to California which Saint Mary's student government Resort, where the event is being paid for itself. invited the women ofNotre Dame to held. The class needs the extra Pedi said that a class can spend its· their annual Women's Opportunity money to pay for the five buses that money however it wishes, except Week next week. Farley Hall presi­have been reserved to take ap­for purchasing liquor, but he strong­dent Kathy Neilon thanked the proximately 220 students. ly suggested that the money be put presidents for their cooperation 
Father Mario Pedi, moderator of aside for use at events in which the with her attempts to uncover the the class, explained that there is ap­majority of students in the class can mysterious disappearance of the proximately S1,700 allotted for participate. hall's spirit banner. 

for upcoming ski trip 
Is TV taping legal? 


Court to decide on VCR's 
WASHINGTON (AP) The however, that at-home recording Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, 
Supreme Court, soon to decide represents a "fair use" exception to who told the lawyers he did not own whether millions of Americans are copyright laws, most recently such a machine, appeared skeptical illegally taping television shows, was revamped by Congress in 1976. of Kroft's argument that home use told yesterday that makers of home When Justice Lewis F. Powell should be outlawed or com­video recorders "have infected this asked Kroft what might be some pensated. At one point in the 60­country with the knowledge that "fair uses" -legal uses -of his minute argument session, Burger causes copyright infringement." clients' copyright materials, Kroft asked, "Where's the injury?" 
Stephen Kroft, a Beverly Hills, listed scientitk or educational pur­Kroft said a viewer's taping of his Calif., lawyer for two copyright­suits. clients' movies may put that viewer owning movie companies locked in But when Powell asked if he legal­in competition with companies that a billion-dollar dispute with the ·ly could tape record one of the are licensed by copyright owners to Sony Corp., contended that virtually movies to show at "a reunion for my rent movie cassettes for home use. all home use of video recorders vi­clerks," Kroft laughed and said no. A decision is expected by July. 
olates federal copyright laws. 
Kroft added that Sony and other makers of the popular machines must be held legally responsible for such armchair piracy. 
But Sony lawyer Dean Dunlavey of Los Angeles urged the justices to rule that the taping of a favorite TV program or televised movie is a legal "fair use" ofcopyright materials. 
"The issue is whether all Americans ...are to be denied the benefit oftime-shift home television viewing because a few program owners object," Dunlavey said. 
The recorders make it possible to store on tape a televised show and view it at some later time, giving rise to the "time-shift" label. 
The justices must decide whether a federal appeals court was right in ruling that video recorder manufac­turers like Sony can be forced to pay continuing royalties -or even made to stop selling the machines ­because more than 5 million American families already are violat­ing copyright laws. 
The lower court ruling theoreti­cally allows copyright owners to sue home viewers, but the chance for such actions is seen as remote. 
A huge amount of monev is at stake, nonetheless. American ~ales of home video recorders were es­timated at more than s I billion in 1982. Nearly 40 million recorders are expected to be in use by 1990. 
Dunlavey readily conceded that videotapes are copies. He argued, 
i tt The Main Event " . f
v \ 

I y ~

Jan 29-JOth !! 
I SENIOR FORMAL I ~ 
theme: mARDI GRAS 
i Aprill9, 1983 h 1 at the Palmer House, Chicago r.._ ~ Sketches of sculptures should be 
I

I Watch for further information next Wednesday
hGnded in to the student Gctivities 
~--------------------------------------­
r~~~~~.._..~...............,..~ .............~~.__.........................~..,..~ ..........
office by JGn. 25. ~ 
Sculptures will 
!SINGERS, GUITARISTS, I be judged 
~ AND OTHER I 


on theme and 
~ INSTRUMENTALISTS ~ 
. ~
originality 
~ i ~ (. SACRED HEART PARISH ' ~ ~ -> NEEDS YOU! (9 i ~ i
Winning sculptors will be QWGrded ~ r 
~ Please call the Parish Office l DJSERVICES i (239-7511) or Moliie Bernard -~ ~ (255-7139)! ~
for their hGII's next pGrty. I L~~~-~~~~--~----~~-----j I 
\ 
i 
mARDI GRAS SNOW SCULPTURE CONTEST 

Mark Doman, captain of the threatened Notre Dame hockey team, appeared before the HPC last night in an appeal for i~­creased student support. See story at left. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
.






S.T.E.P. 
Juvenile Corrections Project 

I 
Mandatory 2nd Semester ~ Organizational Meeting 
I
For all new and old tutors 

Tonight 

I
7:30 Multipurpose Room in 
Center for Social Concerns (old WNDU Building) 

I 

i
y(,, ifamift• cf{annina Centa 
~ {I 
·%'f''"'fu.-til'i qf.:lllifr.·.m 
Pr~(mi('n,rf Staff 
{o,:filtntia( .Strl'im 111 S. SL Louis 1J(;,J. South if3tn/, CJN 46617
cfis_amra(,ft cfw 
{a(( zi:q-?•'l?for app('inrmml 
•f>fu,,tf Parmlhool~( N,,,_,(, {mtra( CJn/ian11 
··--------------------------------------~ 
I: Get Ready Class of '83 for ~II 

................................. 
: Wednesday Night Italian Buffet FREE CHIANTI : 
I _lust present this ad to mur walter 1
1 If vou think Italian ti>od is just spaghetti <Uld pizza. and we-11 gin· you a free hottle of I

f The Tae Kwon Do ! 
w~ ·ve got a mouth -onPning exnPrience w<titing ti1r \.·ou
I r·~ r" Chianti to t•njm witll \'OUr meal and 1I every Wednesday night from S:!Xl · HHXl Pm_ at'lllt' keep the bottle :L~ a sourenir. I

: Karate Club offers i 
1 Looking Glass Restaurmlt in the South ~nd \larriott. offer ralid throu!:il _lanuan· _q. JlJH.t I

: .
I ~ltrooucing ~!m11a ~1arriott's -a huo11 gusto Ont· coupon per tahle I: Physical Fitness/Weight Loss : I array of <mtip<L'il:l. minestrone. fettucine. 1 I cacciatore. la.'iagne. p<L'il:t <Uld four 1
: Self Defense : 

I sauces. cheese. breads <Uld desserts. 1 : Competitive Fighting : I It's all semd up in a festire 1 I ltali<Ul atmosphere -1 I checkered t:thlecloths. 1
iPractice begins Thursday, Jan. 20 in the i

i -I a stroUmg musiLi<m -1 I\ : ACC Pit at 6:30. New Students Welcome : I the works. 1 
I 
l'he Observer 

Provost Timothy O'Meara answered questions at last night's Faculty Senate meeting at the Center for Continuing Education. (Photos by Ed Carroll) 





Mama Maniott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
lf you think Italian ti1od is just spaghetti and pizza. we've got a mouth-opening experienn· w<titing li1r vou every Wednesd;ty night from 'i:!Kl -HWl p.m. at 'l11e lJKlking f;[a.'iS Restaurmll in the South Bend ~1arriott. 
lntrodudng ~lama Marriott's -a huon gusto array of mltip<L'ita. minestrone. tettudne. Glttiatore. h'iagne. p<L'il:l m1d lilltr sauces. cheese. hreatb m1d desserts_ 
lt·s all served up in a testive lt:tli<m atmosphere ­checkered t:thlecloths. a strolling musili<m­the works_ 
All you GUJ eat fi1r S6_l))_ Children under 12 -S.~t))_ 

FREE CHIANTI 
Just present this ad to your waitt•r :md we'II W\"t' you a frt'l' bottle of Chianti to enjov with \'Our meal and kl•t•p the bottle :L> a souvenir. Ofter valid through Januarv -" . llJX_t One coupon per tahle 
A rit·l!dercil South Bt•nd/.,\\orriott ttottl. 
123 N. St. Joseph St.. South Bend (219) 234-2000 
Wednesday, January 19, 1983-page 4 
One of 14 Fellows 

White House appoints ND prof 
By KIMBERI.Y MAI.OOF Kmiec. dramatically reducing inflation, cut­News Staff Kmiec also said that this first­ting tax rates and strengthening na­hand experience will enhance hb tional defense. However. Kmiec 
Notre Dame Professor of Law teaching when he returns to Notre believes that area~ concerning Douglas Kmiec has recently been Dame in August, enabling him to government spending and educa­appointed one of 14 White House give a complete background on tion have failed. Fellows by President Reagan. Supreme Court and Congressional White House Fellowships are 
As a fellow, Kmiec wil.l meet decisions_ funded by corporate and individual three to four times weekly with a When asked to give an evaluation donations. Taxes and revenues from diverse group of private sector of Reagan's adminisration, Kmiec each Fellow's specific area fund the leaders, ranking government offi­responded by giving him a "B-". He special assistance aspect of the Fel­cials, leading scholars and jour­believes Reagan has succeeded in lowships. nalists. 
The idea behind the fellowships is to take private citizens and place 
Indirect fundraisingthem in high positions in govern­ment. This enables Fellows to con­stantly evaluate how well the 


aids SMC carnpaign
Reagan administration is doing. Fellows also serve as special assis­
By ANNE MONASlYRSKI She indicated that Residence Ad­
tants to the President and in­SeniorStaffReporter visors at Saint Mary's did not ask sec­dividuals in his· cabinet. Kmiec will tion members for contributions thh 
assist Secretary ofthe Department of Saint Mary's indirect fundraising year. unlike Notre Dame_ Housing and Urban Development, approach for The United Way made This approach was taken because. 
Sam Pierce. 
it a success, according to Social Trotter said, "in the past, other tech­The Fellow program has been in Justice Commissioner Chris Trotter niques haven't been successful." She existence since 1963. Each year, ap­who organized the student drive. cited last year's S350 total to em­plicants number between 1,000 and Instead of having individual phasize her point.
3,000, yet only 14 are accepted. 
solicitors, each class and hall, along The campaign began in Novem­with the Christian Life Commission, ber as posters and pamphlets were This year, Kmiec is the only law 
sponsored fundraising activities. "It distributed throughout the campusprofessor accepted into the fellow­
was up to the students to make the in what Trotter called "Education ship program. 
effort," said Trotter. Week". The week was devoted to 
The indirect approach does·not informing students about the United 
Among the many other profes­use the soliciting technique stressed Way drive and upcoming sions represented are medicine, on Notre Dame's campus. According fund raisers. television production, aviation, and to Trotter, raising funds through LeMans Hall sponsored "Send an farming. "The theory is that all of us events "worked better for Saint Apple", during which students sent can share the knowledge that we Mary's because it's not the same type apples for 50 cents to their friends learn with our colleagues", said of community (as Notre Dame)." and teachers. 
\ Woodward, Bernstein, ~~I.· Cronkite, Anderson, Dear Abby. 
************* 
These esteemed journalists all got their starts in news­papers and so can you! Earn respectandexperienceasan Observer reporter. Interested? Come to a meeting this Thursday at 6 pm in the Saint Mary's Observer office (basement of Regina South). 


r·------------------------------------•
I
I COI'PON I


i Mama Marriott's ! 
The Christian Life Commission sponsored "Send a Prayer·:. the most successful event. This fundraiser was so successful that it was sponsored again during the Christmas Bazaar and raised a total ofhOO. 
Or.her fundraisers included bake sales, donut sales, and a paper drive among others. 

The drive is still not over_ The Sophomore Class contributed S100 yesterday to the drive. In addition, a carnival is being planned for sometime in February as the last fund raiser. 
The carnival, featuring food and games, will be held in Angela Ath­letic Facility. "There is a lot riding on the carnival because it is expected to be the biggest fundraiser," according to Trotter. 
The only type of individualized contributions came from collec­tions taken up during campus Masses. In this way, "students still had the opportunity to give without participating in other fundraisers," said Trotter. 

'. I All rou Gm eat tc1r Sb.9'i. I
: Instructors: :
' 
' 
+ , Mr. Steven Travis + I Children under 12 -S.~t)'i I 
i 
I I

3rd Degree Black Belt/8 time national champion : 
I I 

_ Mr. Thomas Schreck + 
+ ' 1st Degree Black Belt : ~~ "~a·"hrrllt··Kia"ott Ho•.,t. ~~ 
~ 1 l'-12) N. St. Joseph St.. South Bend (219) 234-2000 

: For info call Tom Schreck at 1104 + 6 
I COl"PO!Ii I
• •I 
I

t ............................... i 

~------------------------------------~ 
-------------··---------------­
The Observer --~· Wednesday,January 19, 1983-page 5 
Revising view 
Bishops discuss nuclear weapons 
The American bishops, who have moved to the forefront of the anti­nuclear movement, are preparing a final version ofa draft pastoral letter that condemns nuclear warfare, as well as some aspects of American strategic policy. The Reagan ad­ministration has contested portions ofthe document, including a call for a nuclear freeze that has been criticized by the White House as damaging the U.S. negotiating posi­
tion. 

Proposed at a Roman Catholic bis­
hops' meeting in Washington last 
November, the document con­
demned any intent or threat to use 
nuclear weapons and said even 
possessing them as a deterrent can 
be tolerated only if steps are being 
taken toward mutual disarmament 
by the United States and the Soviet Union. 
A Vatican official said the 
Americans wanted to hear the view­
points of their European colleagues 
and that the exchange might lead to 
changes before the 25,000-word 
document comes up for adoption at 
a meeting in Chicago in May. 

The official, who spoke on condi­
tion his name not be used, described 
the public stance of the French and 
West German bishops as more 
"middle-of-the-road" than that ofthe 
American bishops, while the English 
and Scottish bishops have been 
closer to the U.S. bishops. 

Italian bishops have made only 
one major statement, expressing 
concern over plans to install U.S. 
nuclear missiles in Sicily as part of a 
NATO build-up. 

"We simply want the insights of 
our peers in Western Europe as well 
as the Vatican," said one of the U.S. 
participants,_ Archbishop John R. 
Roach ofSt. Paul-Minneapolis, presi­
dent of the National Conference or 
Catholic Bishops. He said the views 
ofthe Vatican and European bishops 
will be taken into account as the 
American prelates prepare the final 
draft. 

VATICAN CITY (AP) -The Vatican convened a meeting of top 
U.S. and West European bishops yes­terday to discuss the American churchmen's sweeping condemna­tion of the use of nuclear weapons and possibly suggest changes before a final version is completed. 
In a sign ofthe importance the Ho­ly See attaches to the meeting, the Vatican assigned Secretary of State Cardinal Agostino Casaroli and its top theologian, Cardinal Joseph Rat-zinger, as moderators over the two­day conference of prelates from the United States, Britain, France, West Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and Italy. 
The meeting, in the old Synod Hall of the Apostolic Palace, was closed to the public, and the Vatican said only that the initial session lasted three hours and gave no details of the talks. 
Discussions continued in the af­
ternoon. 


Jap internment based on lies, report says 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -A key military report that led to the intern­ment of nearly 120,000 Japanese­Americans during World War II was based on "intentional falsehoods," say attorneys planning appeals of three landmark cases from 1943. 
The cases involve the convictions 40 years ago of three men, now in their 60s, on charges of violating curfews and refusing to report to as­sembly centers, said attorny Don Tamaki. 
Part of the appeals will be based on documents found in the past few months in government archives by Peter Irons, a law professor in the political science department at the University ofCalifornia-San Diego. 
The writs will be filed today in 
federal courts in San Francisco, 
Seattle and Portland, Ore.. said 
Tamaki. 
Irons says the documents dis­credit a report hy Army Gen. John L. Dewitt which alleged Japanese­Americans were a threat to the na­tion's security. The report by Dewitt was used to justity the evacuation of American-born Japanese and Japanese aliens from the West Coast into internment camps, Tamaki said. 
Statements from that report also 
appeared in Justice Department 
briefs or in briefs filed by the attor­
neys general of California, Washing­
ton and Oregon in the three cases to 
be appealed. Tamaki said. "These 
three cases really are landmark deci­
sions which upheld the legality of 
the whole relocating of a group of 
people on a racial basis," said 
• • • J...}j 
continuedfrom page 1 
From there, Valdiserri noted the in­terviews must be screened because of the great demand. 
"There is only a certain amount of time our athletes have to give inter­views," Valdiserri said. He indicated that the larger and more influential publications have priority in being granted interviews. 
The case was transferred out of 
Saint Joseph's county at the request 
of Fan Action, after the two sides 
were unable to reach an out-of-court 
agreement. 
Tomorro~·s hearing is scheduled 
in Knox, a city in neighboring Starke 
county. The actual trial date is far off, 
(rroves believes, because of the 
;Jacklog ofcourt cases awaiting trial. 
(_jroves noted that it may take a year 
· •ore for tht: suit to go to trial. 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! 
Omega Producti_ons, Inc.. 
is now openmg the1r Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type 
of  music  for  any  type  
of event.  Parties  are  our  
specialty.  Custom  music  

programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 
Tamaki. "The full basis for the Supreme Court decision upholding the evacuation was military neces­sity." 
Dewitt died in 1962, and Wash­
ington attorney Joan Z. Bernstein, 
chairman of the Commission on 
Wartime Relocation and Internment 
of Civilians, declined comment on 
the case yesterday because she has 
not seen the briefS. 
The original internment order 
was issued in early 1942 by Presi­
dent Franklin D. Roosevelt, who, at 
the time, said, "The successful 
prosecution of the war requires 
every possible protection against 
espionage and against sabotage." 
Lawyers for the three men -Fred 
Corematsu, Gordon Hirabyashi and 
Min Yasui -said the military argu­
ment advanced by the Dewitt report 
was that Japanese-Americans were 
engaging in espionage and sabotage 
by radio transmissions to enemy 
ships. 
Tamaki said the report also 
claimed the Japanese-American 
community was so "ethnically in­
sular" that it was "virtually impos­
sible to distinguish the loyal from 

the disloyal." The report said it was 
therefore necessary to intern all 
Japanese-Americans. 

t~~~~~~.._.~~~~~.-.. .... ~~~, 
t Sit;r ''I ((, £·~r~£~_ir: til~ 11SJ tI~"~rcJi ()rCl§ Uc.r1£t?Cllli()ll I 
(lul·t t k~r.~ ~/~ • ..__ 
t f -~ h~ ~()W 
t ~-~ / It: u()(f: 
t _~ ("x,_~( [)ir:ill~ 1-l~ll§.
I "·/ 

' ' • 1 .\! .. Danceathon will be
' 1

!5;,_(0. ·, Sat., Feb. 5 1 p.m.-1 a.m. 
·,_ , _.·. .1 ' . in South Dining Hall. 
1

t ' / \ , t \ 1 \ Prizes include a trip to Mardi 
t -~ ~GrasinNewOrleans!! c!8 ~' t te-5' ~ "t t t 
t 
·v 

f 
~~l'f-~. G .t 
-., "; t ~v11
-~, _­

~r ' 
'/ ' 
· fl __ I '> ·. _: :. '· ·,...! 
, ~ \ \ I t
1 t
11 
) 


Saint Mary's art students Laura Stover and Margie Foy leave their classroom in the newly-renovated Old Chemistry Building. Students and faculty members are helping the department move from the Old Fieldhouse. (Photo byEd Carroll) 
• 
Attention All Those Interested In "AN TOSTAL" 
Interviews tor Executive Committee Positions are starting now. 
See Margaret, the Student Government Secretary, on the second floor Lafortune, tor an appointment, before Wednesday, Jan.19,1983. 
questions· call 239-7868 
..IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHaaiHIHIMitt....IIMMIIHHHHIIIHHIIHHIIIIII.....HettoDO~ 
IN JUST A SHORT TIME ... YOU WILL BECOME A NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS OR ALUMNA! 
Meet the Alumni Board of Directors at 
what's in store for you after graduation: I
the Hall Visitation Program and see  1  
1  Thursday, Jan. 20 9:00pm The following halls will host Board members:  I  
Flanner Breen-Phillips Zahm ....___  Alumni Morrissey Walsh ···-·--~~-.."­ 

S.U. Service Commission 
Movie Poster Sale 

When? Tues., Jan. IS Wed., Jan. 19 Thurs., Jan. 20 
Whattime? 10-5 
Where? Lafortune lobby 
CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS Applications tor Student Activity Funds are now available at the Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune. The second semester allocation is designed to fund groups which either did not receive funds first semester
' 

or in special cases, groups which were funded who demonstrate additional need. Deadline for applying is Friday, February 28. 

~ 
I
.,
• 
·' ,i
"~l i! 
•'.i •I
•
• 


-------------~~ 





Editorials 
Wednesday, January 19, 1983-page 6 
·­
Used thoughts© cost less 
This is the second in a series on the im­picks up the tab. Caught in the middle are stu­plications ofthe Copyright Act of 1976 and dents who have trouble even affording tui­of economically viable alternatives to the tion. open infringement ofthat law. The question ·Students have only seriously attempted one of such illegal photocopying came to the procedure to beat the high price of books, forefront of academia last December when namely five-cent copies of major portions of nine publishers filed a copyright infringe­works. This is a flagrant infringement of the ment suit against New York University for copyrighted act. violating the 'fair use" clause of Title 17 of Official policy of the t:niversity libraries the United Stat._s code. limits photo reproduction to one copy of a 
single chapter ofa work. 
While the University can control possiblePaul McGinn copyright infringements by faculty, any en· forcement ofstudent photocopying would be Roper Review tedious and financially unrealistic. The bureaucracy alone involved in the monitoring of such procedures would undouhtedly dis­
At Notre Dame, where the average family courage many whose reproductions were grosses over S40,000 a year, the question of well within the law. expensive books and the way to avoid them Nationv.ide taxation of photocopying echos like a bell in a vacuum. machines, much like the planned taxation of 
Ten percent of the students who would audio and visual cassettes, would only hurt normally bear the crunch of book prices those who abide by the law. Five cents can escape the financial burden because ROTC. balloon to manv dollars even when non-
The philosophical blues 
Cogito ergo sum, tabula rasa, dialectic, cal value." While reclining in a dentist's chair. teleology, epistemology, ontology, cosmol­I was once insulted by a hygienist after inform­ogy. proctology, contrapositive, con­ing her that I studied philosophy. "I suppose traceptive philosophical jargon is when you're out ofwork you'll at least he able outnumbered only by the gobbledygook of to think about it," she retorted. theologians. Many discouraged neophytes Barbs like these are unfortunate and illogi­wonder whether professional philosophers cal. In the first instance, my being a philo hold annual meetings to select that terminol­major has no causal connection, whether per ogy which is hardest to pronounce, most dif­se or per accidens in nature, with the ficult to remember, and hence best suited for aforementioned art of priesthood. For, this their trade. being the case, the form of philosophy­
majoringness would be synonymous with the form of priesthoodedness, thus providing noKeith Picher principle of individuation. Clearly it follows that all squares are circles. 
Short of Profundity As to the statement that philosophy has no practical value, I suggest that the converse is true. For surely a philosophy major can, at 
While philosophers did not invent the word least, find a job writing editorials for a confusion, they may have added new meaning newspaper. And even were this not the case, to it. Many a student would prefer to die by any ex-philosopher could easily find work at electrocution rather than sift through a an insane asylum, due to his uncanny ability to passage from Sartre. And who wouldn't feel relate to such people. discouraged after spending an hour on one Regarding the third point, which was essen­page ofDuns Scotus, only to discover the next tially the second point, a similar response can day that his proofwas flawed. be made. This may also be proved in seven­
Perhap~ philosophy begs criticism, espe­teen different ways, ofwhich I can explain on­cially in today's society. Not even bathroom ly eleven. Ofthese eleven, six must be written walls are free from comments like "The in Greek to retain their actual meaning. Ofthe unlived life is not worth examining," "I think remaining five, they can all be summed up by not, therefore I am not," and "He who laughs one: if a equals a, then a equals a. last probably didn't get the joke." Many a student is content to take two 
The philosophy major who pursues any­philosophy classes and run. A week or two of thing but law is especially suspect. "Are you Plato, a few sessions on Descartes, and a brief planning to be a priest?" one person asks. encounter with Kant is more than enough for Others comment, "Philosophy has no practi-those concerned "''th a utilitarian way oflife. 
SOClA_I SECUR\TUM 
"I TELL YOU IT'S NO MYTH!" 
copyrighted materials are reproduced en new book price and only a 10 percent cash masse. payment for used books also leaves many stu­
The seemingly Mraightforward sulution to dents' wallets bare. the maintaining of the Copyright Act of 1976 Students' lone attempt at the recirculatin of and the saving of many dollars lies in the recir­books, the student union book sale, lacks the culation of used books. ambition and coordination which the profit 
Innovative and ambitious students could incentive spurs. While a fine commitment to 
preserve the interests of publishers and reap the pockets ofindividual students and high in­large profits in the process by establishing dis­terests of charity, the book sale lacks the tributorships for used paperbacks and scope to effect an adequate transferral of used hardbound texts. hooks. 
The continuing need for "recycled" texts is At the end of each term, individuals or stu­met by only two major hookscllers in the city: dent group~; could purchase specific texts Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and Pan­from students, the minimum sale potential of dora's. Books on Corby Boulevard. Hammes which would be secured by the inspecting of sells relatively few used books, and the used course synopses and the interviewing of hooks it does sell often hear unrealistically faculty members. high processing costs which augment the Storage at off-campus housing would relativelv low prices it pays students for the enable the distributors to buy book;, from a used hooks in the first place. student before he lost them among dusty 
Pandora's Books specializes in used texts, shelves and cluttered closets. the majority of which arc ordered from a clearinghouse in Chicago. But Pandora's insis­Tomorrow: long-range solutions for ad­tence on a price tag ofabout 80 percent ofthe ministrators andfaculty. 

P.O. Box Q 
educators and coaches to the NCAA's new
Farley sign stolen 
academic requirements for athletes. My primary criticism stems from Chval's ap­
Dear Editor: 
parent "stepping over" of the real problem.
Every January the residents of Farley Hall He says, "So crying discrimination ... is alook forward to returning to Notre Dame, to tacit admission (by Johnson) that a largeseeing their friends, but especially to the number ofblacks can't or simply won't meet start of Pop Farley Week. January is a special the standards." Granted, the new standards time for all Farleyites because it is the month pertain to all athletes of every race, but in which the hall celebrates the birthday of applying the same rules to people who have the beloved Pop Farley with a week of fes­not had the same educational opportunitiestivities. The celebration begins with an (for example, inner city blacks and opening Mass and reception on Sunday. 
hispanics) is actually unfair. 
Events for the week include a scavenger Furthermore, to say that Mr. Johnson ad­hunt on Monday, a movie night on Tuesday, mits that blacks "can't or simply won't""Farley Night at the Nazz" on Wednesday, measure up to the NCAA requirements is a"Class Day" on Thursday and the hall dinner great injustice to that man. He said nothingon Friday. The week ends with the in-the­near this, not even implicitly. I feel, as shoulddorm Screw-Your-Roommate on Saturday anyone who read Chval's article, that Chvalevening. 
himself admits blacks are unable to achieveThis year our Pop Farley week started dif­the new standards.
ferently. Our "Farley Hall" sign, which marks I don't mean to imply that Mr. Chval is ra­the beginning of our week long events, was cially biased, but simply that he has prudent­stolen. Traditionally, we place a sign over ly revealed the inadequacy of our schoolthe main entrance to the dorm which an­systems. No one needs to be told that inner­nounces the theme ofthe week. Friday after­city school-; and educators are below thenoon the sign was tied with ropes over the competency of suburban schools. It is alsomiddle door. Saturday morning, to the dis­apparent that the facilities, opportunities,may of the Farley residents, the sign was and poverty situations that many blacks are gone. The ropes had been cut and the sign subject to reduces the chances of theirhad been maliciously removed. 
receiving a secondary education that wouldIt is apparent that somebody thought it allow them to "measure up" to the NCAA.
would be humorous to play a joke on Farley Mr. Chval addresses this problem orHall. Well, •t is not funny. As a matter offact, rather solves it by remarking that since thethe humor escapes all those involved in Pop rule goes into effect in 1986, "potential stu­Farley Week. Actually, it is sad to think that dent athletes, their parents, coaches, and some people have nothing better to do with teachers have plenty ofopportunity to cleantheir time than to play "practical jokes" on up their acts where appropriate." A niceothers. The sign, as does the week ofevents, cliche, but how do you propose thesemeans a lot to the Farley residents. Much people "ckan up their acts"? .\laybe federal time and money went into making the sign and state money could be used to upgradefor some inconsiderate, irresponsible, and the facilities, texts and educators atinsensitive person ti> steal it. I wish people predominately black schools. This wouldwould think before they act. Violating the surely seem to help blacks reach their poten­property ofothers is not only unthinkable, it tial as scholars. Mr. Johnson is quoted asis vicious. I find it difficult to understand saying that NCAA schools don't want blackhow someone can call themselves a member athletes. .\1r. Chval says that blacks simplyof the Notre Dame community and can't achieve the scholarly levels of otherdeliberately do what was done to Farley people. Yet through the great cleansing ofSaturday morning. 
acts, Chval says black athletes will be able to
Kathy Neilan and Zaida Avila, 
meet the new NCAA standard~.
Pres. and Vice Pres., Farley Hall 
Acommendable observation, but I think I stated your real point better. Or was Mr Ch,·al really trying to say that blacks have :
NCAA standards 
systematic disadvantage in our educatioml Dear Editor: systems that is more than mere racia! i· I am writing this in response to Craig ability? I wonder. Chval's article on the reactions of black Michael R. JicCahe 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chiej. .............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller _............................................Eric Schulz 
versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eitlter institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto 
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the_views oftheir authors. Column space is a variable to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..................... Joseph Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on_campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 

~'""""·-__..... ... --. ----.... -----·-----.-..--..-----~-~~----··----~ --·-----·----~...-.....-----~---·-·----"-... ------....-.--....--_...........______.......~-----·-­




~S"OVVCA~SE~~~Wedn~esday~,Janu~ary19~,198~3p~age7 
Signs of the times 
T
hey are the signs of the times. daughter who affected the way her father viewed his 
Placement Bureau; scheduled students only work in relation to the rest ofhis life. They are the words with which we speak. He chose the law as his graduate course ofstudy. "I've got a job lined up as an insurance adjustor out in During his t1rst year, he contemplated dropping out. 
Portland for a major trucking company. I'll be handling The men in his study group, cajoled and encouraged mostly workers' compensation claims. It'll be great ex­him into staying. And he did. perience because I'm applying for law school next year He graduated from law school, took the bar exam, 
and between mv BBA and the law degree ... pa~sed it, and got a job. Shortly thereafter, he married and had a baby girl. The signs of the times manifested themselves in the
Tari Brown 
frequent late night hours which the father would spend downtown in an otherwise deserted oftke. After the Clerk's office closed and the judges finished their dock­
features 

ets, he diligently sat in the firm's library paging through legal journals, documents, and books, because he didn'tThey are the t1gures on IRS forms. 
have time during the day.
Gross income .. . 
He worked because he loved the law, but he also had
.Vet income . . . to support a family. 
Exemptions . . . His family. 
Tax deductions .. . 
His family expected him to come home at six. Very 
Taxable income . . . 
often, he didn't. He couldn't because he had to work.
They are the bags otcrumpled, torn, dog-eared, high­The family went on without him.
lighted notes, paper~ and notebooks piled high in the One particular day. he called home to talk to the mot·
dumpsters. They are the standardized job applications her. His four-year-old daughter answered the phone, as
complete with job history and personal references. was her habit. She asked him ifhe was coming home
They are the resumes, carefully organized and typed tonight, at dinnertime, to be with his family. He said no. 
according to the latest how-to manual on writing He would be working late again. She cried, over the
resumes. phone.
They are our consumer, capitalist-oriented attitudes. They dictate the social structure in which we prattle The signs of the times. They cried to him over the and paw our way to a position slightly higher than our phone. They had tried to fashion him into one who parents. They prod us, provoke us, prime us, prove to us needed to excel in the business world, at any expense. that we can be more comfortable, more financially They had handed him a sort of"Ten Commandments" secure, more influential, more educated than our which described how to make it as a professional, how fore bearers. to get to the top ofthe field and stay there. They had 
They are the signs of the times. shown him the "virtues" of hard work and diligence. 
They are also the cries of the children who don't see What they didn't show him were the tears ofa four­their daddies because they work the night shift or be­year-old who wanted her daddy to be with his family. cause they have to work late to make points with the He never worked late again. And his four-year-old boss. They are the four-year-old daughters who run out daughter never cried on the phone again. 
the door at the sound of the Plymouth pulling up the The signs of the times changed, from a dollar sign to driveway. the greatest sign oflove, the hug and kiss ofafather who One of the signs is one particular four-year-old loves his daughter more than the old signs of the times. 


Blickenstnff: motivnted music 
I 
nstrumemal music, when per­minutes that he was aware of the formed with lightness and airiness. formed by a studied, trained music not as ordered notation but as There was a sense that there was a musician. becomes a form ofunlet­integrated sound. The piano seemed collection of moths, stirring in the tered communication. The pianist, to "sing" the music much like an night, just out of human grasp. "Sad as was the case last evening, recites operatic aria. The second intermez­Birds" followed the lonely cry ofone the music that the composer has put zo built upon this singing quality by forlorn bird as its primary theme. to paper, combining the theme, integrating the pianist himself into Where one could rely upon a dirge­whether tonal or romantic, with the the music. like sound, Mr. Blickenstaff avoided notes. The ability to play motivated The capriccio in G minor and 0 it, replacing it with a sincerely sad "music" rather than notes was the minor alternated with the intermez­sound. "A Boat on the Ocean" dominam factor of Marvin Blick­zi, juxtaposing artistic and technical featured mostly treble tlourishes enstaff's piano recital yesterday in demands. They were faster paced, which defined the sparkle of the Annenberg Auditorium. often coordinating two voices, one ocean. One could hear the lapping of 
in each hand. Mr. Blickenstaffplayed the waves on the sides of the boat asTari Brown the music cleanly and crisply, giving Mr. Blickenstaff cleanly played the 
definite shape to the pieces. highly textured music, avoiding any The Brahms was followed by blurriness in tone. His transitions, a Beethoven's "Sonata in F Minor, Op. strong point throughout the recital,
music review 
5""."This piece abounded with forte­seemed to arise naturally like the 
Mr. Bhckenst:lft, currently Profes­piano tramitions that were colored turn of the wind. "Morning song of sor of Music at Go,hen College, per­by multi-voices runs and flourishes. theJester" and "The Valley of the formed a program of1>horr pieces by Technically, the music required Bells" were dominated by stac­Brahms, Beethoven, Ravel, and controlled playing. In the allegro as­cato/legato interplay. "Jester" had a Rachmaninoff~ As a technician, Mr. sai, the repetition ofone note in the playful quality, a "catch me ifyou Blickenstaff was afforded ample op­middle ofthe piece was played with can" attitude. "Bells" utilized ec­portunity to display a wick range of metronomic precision. The andante hoing in octaves and chords. The capabi!itie!>. The program, con moto was thoroughly explored final chord resonated through the predominantly romantic composi­artistically, producing the feeling of auditorium as a though the sound tions. demanded an interpretive art­an aimless Sunday stroll. The allegro were captured in the walls ofa val­ist ofexceptional visiOn and rna non troppo concluded the ley. emotion. Mr. Blickenstaffproved to sonata with variations in pace and Rachmaninoffs Preludes in F­bc-an artist equal to the~e demands. theme. The entire piece began and sharp Minor, 0 Major, C Minor, E-flat 
Two inlermeui and two capricci ended with the high level ofemo­:\lajor. and B-flat Major were rather by Johannes Brahms opened the tion and spirit that characterizes ami-climactic to the Ravel. They recital. Beginnir..l" ~IC< .:nd continu­Beethoven. were much more dependent upon ing throughou; !i;<: p;·ogram..'.1r. After a short intermission, Mr. technique than interpretation, Blickenstaffp!ay~d "'ith confidence. Blickenstaffreturned to play Ravel's having simple uncluttered lines and 
The music wa~ ~i.:an J.nd devoid of "Miroirs." Composed as though phrasing. They lacked the transition­
imprecision in thl~ r~:-rformance. Al­Ravel was looking through a pain­al quality of the Brahms, Beethoven, though an occas~<mal 4uestionable ter's eyes, tht" music exp1•· ,·es evt'!'Y and Ravel and seemed to be more of note was heard. i• \Va' the exception aspect • · ·'ilhject-titk i1ke ;t pain­an exercise. Mr. Blickenstaffcon­
rather than th.· rule. l lis crescendos ter doe~ with color and sh:.•·'·· •w. Mr. cluded his vinually flawless perfor­and decrescendos were gradual, Blickenstaff'called upon the: l· mance with the declarative ending having a lvrical and t1uid quality. terpretive artist to give the music :orre of the B-tlat Major. 
....._...,.:?._____...,.
His ability to hand;c t<te technical the fullness of tone that it needed. 

TREES need growth 
S
leep Convention is the debut album by Trees. Trees, however, is not a group but a "concept" by Dane Conover. On this album, Conover has created a bubble-gum avam-garde record that Midwest pop stations should love. While this description sounds derogatory, it isn't meant to be. 
Sleep Convention is not a "Sturm und Orang as it goes up against the wall ofthe rock and roll establishment," as an overly emhusastic MCA press release writer referred to it. Rather, it is a very accessible look at pop music, with good melodies and some substantial lyricism. 
What makes this album different from other pop releases is the full blend of music making. 


Ed Kontady 
record review 

The music is standard fare with no more than a touch or two ofin­fluence outside the American mainstream sound. However, the shaping ofsounds by Conover offers a very interesting look at the dif­ferent instruments. 
"In a way, I see myselfassembling, as if startingwith the girders of a building," Conover states. "Then the various musical parts are added; I'm almost an engineer thinking about the 'surfaces' ofa song: onefor the verse, another for the chorus. But, at the same time, I like having the emotional content of the lyrics reflected in the structure of the music as much as possible. 
" ...We recorded the various combinations ofinstruments to blend in synthesizers with acoustic instruments, rather than using them alone, because it creates a more natural sound." 
Sleep Convention marks the debut ofConover on vinyl for MCA. This 24-year-old San Diego suburbanite had a very unique oppor­tunity LO make sure his debut album sounded exactly the way he wished it to -Conover wrote the ten songs, arranged them, and produced them. 
One ofthe most remarkable things about the album is the range of 
instruments used to produce it. No one instrument is used to excess. 
and all are played with a fair amount ofsuccess. 
The blending ofsounds is impressive. However, it is ground­breaking only in its accessibility -using experimeri,al and radical sounds to create a pop atmosphere. This album is directed toward those "-10-year-old program directors who honestly believe thatjohn Cougar is punk rock. 
Inside this pop atmosphere, a listener can find some enjoyable melodies, all ofwhich cry out for the AM radio technique (play once a hour until nausea -then announct· the song is number one and play it for another month). Lyrically, the songs range from terrible to torrid. The opening song, "Come back", has a good melody and some good background vocals, but the lyrics ("You took my Con­tinental/You took my credit cards/You should have seen the phone bill/You left me high and dry/You should have seen the dirty dishes/Not a nice way to say goodbye") were not mi)~cd down quite enough. 
Another cut on the first side, "No Stranger". show~ ConoveJ 's 
talent in a better light, with the aforementioned good music and bet­
ter lvrics ("In a crowd ofcigarettes and lunchtime/Mother nature is 
acynic in disguise/There stands a stranger/In his eyes, a reflection of 
a nightmare/And a few that you wouldn't want to ever believe/It's 
too real"). 
Two other songs, "R~d Car" and "Shock ofthe New" are also notable. "Red Car" looks back at the atomic bomb experiments ofthe '50's while an ominous view ofthe future runs parallel. 
"Shock of the New" talks about how mankind is lagging behind, because ofour primitive emotions, while technology is moving ahe;t. 
This album is a better tha'1 average piece of musicianship -but 
somehow 1expecteel :1 lot more. 
aspects oftht mu~.ic w:.s only over­Ravel doesn't isolate voices or per­
shadowed by what appr:ared to be sonae in the musical experience; he 
his overriding talent, aPistic inter­gives each its own time to speak. Mr. 
pretation. The openio.g intermezzo Blickenstaff seems to have defined 
established this, whiie toreshadow­the various voices, allowing them to ing the Ravel pi,., .:.stu <.'ome. It interm'.ngle without losing their in· became ~;ppar:-n' ,.\,~r the first few dividualism. "Night Moths" was per· 
The Showcase editor will consider any submission for possible pubiication, provided it is typed and not more than four pages in length. 



~j)()f1tS~f=l=,..==i=e~S==============================w=e=d=ne=sd=a=y,=Ja~n=u=;uy==I9=,=I9=8=3=·=p=a=ge==8 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Notre Drune Boxing Club announces 
that practice for the 1983 Bengal Bouts has started. Practice is from 
3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Anyone who is in­terested is welcome. No prior experience is required. -The Ob­server 
The NVA officehas announced deadlines for entries for some spring semester sports. Today is the deadline for both men's and women's volleyball. The deadline for doubles racquetball and doubles handball is tomorrow. The office also made some additional announcements. The tennis clinic continues tomorrow from 8:30 to 
10:30 p.m. featuring Scott Ford. For more information call239-6100. Cross-country ski rentals are available again this year. Call 2 39-6100 for more details. Finally, aerobic exercises are being held on Mon­days and Wednesdays at 4:10 in the ACC.-The Observer 
The Windsurfing Club will hold signups for les­sons today as part of the Free University program. Sign ups will take place from 6 to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will hold a meeting tomorrow night in floly Cro!1S Hall ·a~ Saint Mary's at 8. Notre Dame students can meet at the shuttle stop at the Grotto by 7:35 for transportation. All are invited. -The Observer 
Warner Communications Inc., an industry 
giant which has long sought interest in a major league baseball team, 
will purchase 48 percent ownership of the Pittsburgh Pirates in a 
stock transaction announced yesterday. Controlling interest in the 
National League team will be retained by the John W. Galbreath 
family, the Pirates' principal owner for 3 7 years. The Pirates have 
been seeking additional operating capital after two consecutive poor seasons at the gate. The remaining I percent ownership will be scattered among smaller investors. Neither Pirates President Dan Galbreath nor Caesar P. Kimmel, executive vice president ofWarner Communications, would disclose a dollar amount for the transac­tion, but sources estimated it at S1 0 million. -AP. 
The SMC co-ree soccer league starts today 
from 9 to 10:30 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. No advance registration is necessary. Teams are formed upon arrival. The league is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, stafi; faculty, and administration. -The Observer 
Aerobic Dancingfor faculty and staff starts this week. Classes will meet on Mondays and Fridays at 5:15 p.m. in Gym 2 on the ACC upper concourse. A $12 fee will be charged for the seven week course. -The Observer. 
ND-SMC sailing club will have a very important meeting today at 6:30p.m. in the Howard Hall social space to discuss the Commodores banquet and to turn in articles for the alumni newsletter. -The Observer. 
Notre Datne Rugby Club will hold an organiza­tional meeting in LaFortune tomorrow at 7:30p.m. No experience is necessary, and new players are encouraged to attend. -The Ob­server. 
Saint Mary's Basketball team dropped their record to 5-5 with yesterday's 77-47loss to Manchester College. The Belles will host Michigan Catholic, Purdue-Calumet and Michigan­Dearborne in the Saint Mary's Classic on Friday in the Angela Ath­letic Facility. Action starts at 7 p.m. -The Observer. 
The Tae Kwon Do Clubwill hold its first practice on tomorrow in the ACC Pit. New members are welcome to attend. 
-The Observer 
Louisville's Milt WagnerJed a t6-6 scoring spurt to open a 10-point gap that carried ninth-ranked Cardinals to a 63-55 victory over Tulane in a Metro Conference basketball game last night. Wagner got eight ofhis game-high 24 points during that seven­minute first-half surge, which ended with Louisville holding a 26-16 lead with 3:52 left to play in the opening half. Tulane fought back to within three at 52-49 with 1:48 left in the game. But Wagner and Lancaster Gordon iced the contest from the free throw line. Gordon finished with 15· points. Paul Thompson led Tulane with 15 points, 
and John Williams had 13 for the Green Wave. Louisville is 14-2 while Tulane fell to 8-7. Tulane and Louisville battled through the first seven minutes of play without either team being able to estab­lish an advantage. The score was tied five times in those opening minutes. With the score: knotted 12-12, Wagner hit a 22-foot jumper, Gordon followed with a 12-footer off a pass from Wagner and the scoring binge was on. -AP 

1982 FALL ALL-STARS Complied by the Hall Presidents Council 
FOOTBALL 

A,lumnl: John Burke, Gary Purk B:adln: Giovanna P1menta, Sally Esposito E1reen-Phllllps: Patty Talamo, Helen Locher C:arroll: Robert Putnam, Michael Healy C:avanaugh: Dave Tacilet, Mike O'Neil Farley: Sharon Koehler. Denise Sm1th Fisher: Mike Raub Flanner: Mike Pevn, Tim Wilhs Gir-: Rich Laughlin, Dean Burger Holy Cross: Bob O'Brien. Kevin Don ius Howard: Kev1n Wilgus, Pat Maloney Keenan: Dan Sullivan, Angelo Perino Lowls: Lisa Schmargen, Janeen Olds LJona: Gwen Schmidt, Jeanne Luther Morrlasay: Greg Me1ster, Greg Henry 
P:ongborn: Kevin Poling, Karl H1llerman P11aquerllla East: Carla Cortes. Kim lerr P11aquerllla West: Cathy Flick, Barb Schuchart St Ed's: Edward Roohan, Mark Loman Sorln: Mike Conlin, John Scanlon Stanford: Tim Gerva1s, Pat Kelly. John Greer Walsh: Karen Wyson. Claire Welsh Z11hm: Pat Reynolds, Steve Pearsall On-campus: Chris.Ritten. Dave Tnmer Unterreiner 
=:======== 
• • • Irish 

continuedfrom page 12 
was no exception. 
After winning his first match by forfeit, Crown came out in his second match and ate up his op­ponent, registering a first round pin. 
John Krug and Matt Stamm also posted a pair ofvictories. Krug deci­sioned two opponents at 177 while Stamm did the same at 190. 
One scary note for the Irish last night was a sudden third round in­jury to co-captain Don Heintzelman. 
But Heintzelman had only ag­gravated the injury to his knee that required arthroscopic surgery ear­lier-this year. Bruno is hoping that it will not keep him out of action for too long. 
Next up for the Irish grapplers is the 16 team Siena Heights Invita­tional tournament which should prove to be more testing. "With so many teams. tournament competi­tion is always much tougher," says Bruno. 
The Obsc!rver will accept ciasstfieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear tn the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepatd, either in person or through the mail. 


~classifieds 
Do your ears perk up at the mention of
HOUSE BY OWNER. Arlingtton Hts., Too busy to eat right? Get nutrition Since Today is Kathleen SupiiCk·s 
Woodward and Burnstein? Does your pulse race when you get a whiff of 
Clay Twp., 2.5 miles from NO and Univer­insurance~·finest quality vitamins, Birthday, The Blond Bombshell will be 
sity Mall. 1600 sq. ft., 4 bdrm, t.5 bath, m1nerals, and diet supplements delivered availible for birthday favors all day. Let's trl-\vel, 2-car garage. large shaded lot, on campus. Details. call Mike 233-7328. take Advantage other!!! 
.____NO_T_IC_E_S_..I .__I_FO_R_R_EN_T____, 
newsprint? Are you eager to earn your very own reporters notebook? Do you 5-bdrm. completely furnished. close to have news in your blood? If you answered 
many extras. 2 blocks from Darden 
Scho,ol, $59,500. 277-6197 after 6:00 I NEED A RIDE TO MADISON,WI ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS­OK NO MORE CUTE STUFF. . .IF YOU campus, comfortable house for group of 5 "Yep,.. to any or all of these questions,
p.m. FRIDAYxt8t3 MEETING THURS. 7pm AT THE K of C NEED A HAIRCUT AND DONT WANT or 6 for 1983-84. Phone 288-3942 after 6. and you are a SAINT MARY'S STU­
DO YOU CARE? TO PAY MORE THAN $4(GUYS) OR 1979 Honda Prelude. Silver grey, rac1ng DENT, The Observer is the place for you. 
$6(,GIRLS) THEN CALL TODAY FOR MALE ROOMMATE WANTED to share 2 The 1983 Sa1nt Mary's news team is cur­
stripes, red cloth 1nt. Air. automatl1c. AM­OBITUARY
JEANNE and VERONICA, this may not FM stereo/8 track. Electric-powered sun­BEAUREGARD
YOUR VERY OWN APPOINTMENT bedroom apt. 2nd floor of duplex 2 m1les rently being organized Come to the
be roses or even pro~ses but we'll m1ss
from campus. $67.50/month plus utilities meet1ng and find out more. Thursday the 
MICHOLE 233-8456 root 43,600 mi , exec. cond. $4975 or you a heck of a lot for sure\I Wait\ I'm sure 4 years young, of 325 N. Taylor Street 
Grad preferred. 289-8118. best offer. 233-3143, ext. 282 after 9:30. 20th at 6 p.m. in the Sa1nt Mary's Ob­and ex-resident of Cavanaugh Hall
we just did that. Jody and Davigaye UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR Friday passed away dunng Cnristmas break
server office (basement of Reg1na south)
And now )fOU know.
Noon Til Monday Noon $29.95 includes 2 Grad/Law students wanted to share 4-Be there. 
Respecterl by all whC knew him, feared 150 Free Miles. Sales Tax and Insurance bdrm. home With 2 other law students. by those who didn't, "Beau" never met a 
Extra. Phone Rob for Reservations 259-Completely furnished. $75/mo. 288-rodent he didn't like. In remembrance of 6459 3109 Fitness Fair 
TICKETS LOST/LOST! BLUE BACKPACK!! Con­his beloved soul. an IRISH WAKE Will be tains little known novel called Evelina held Thursday evemng. Surv1ving are
"Sunday, Jan. 30, 1983 Student housing -6-bdrm. house. fully 1:00-4:15 p.m. 
and some notebooks with my plans to family members Tom, Rob. Tetsu, Hank, carpeted. 2 baths, 2 k1tchens w/loft. 232-Look!Here·s the deal !I need 3 GA's for the destroy the world/It was probably lost Angela Athletic Facility John, Kath1e, and John. 4057 or 272-7767. Sa1nt Mary·s College 
Feb.S Bball game agamst So at SMC (just like the women there/) If 
SPECIAL GUEST SPEAKER Make th1s your best semester ever!! Live WlltyeWhite
LOST/FOUND 

Carolina. OK? Tom,288-8004 found, do not use// say again do not HAPPY 22NDTO KATHY YOU'RE NOT 
use!! Instead call Kathy immediately at GETTING BETTER, YOU RE GETTING 1n Knute Rockne·s old house. Four "MOTIVATION EVERYDAY LIFE" INFO: 
284-5248 if you want a reward of the OLDER YOUR KEENAN PALS bedrooms. completely turmshed tor only CENTERS, PRESENTATIONS. YOGA,
FOUND. Eyeglasses between Aanner spiritual kindl/1/l!(or if you would like ar · PW. See NO lost/lound dept 87.50/mo. Call B<lb. Matt. or M1ke at2B9-AEROBICS, WEIGHT TRAINING, ETC. 
to live past graduation!//!) ADA, INC. We scope all droolables! 
3962 

(The spoons w1ll tell!) F•.: uNO--Pa1r of woman·s glasses be­
~RSONALS l 
tween Stephen Chemistry and the F18\d Fum. 1 bdr & Semi-turn 2 bdr on the R1ver THEO MAJORS: Tomorrow­
See the mov1e GREASE Carroll Hall House To c\a1m call x3454 Ava~ab\e Immediately Clean & Close to Do you have a nose for nawa? Do you 
(SMC). Jan. 19-20. 7&9:30 p.m. Adm. Thursda)&-·Come to tha Social Hour NO. 233-7631 or234-8743. long to -OUI and explore the breai-Joq 
$1.00. with Prot. St<.>rey as gu.,.t-5:00 PM­LOST. a woman s. size 5 long. maroon siMee of our lima? Do you have a bll at 331 O'Shl!ughnessy 
IT'S TIME To start thinking aoout 83·64 Studtl•lt
tw~ed w1nter coat nwas lost dl the South Fumlshed 1 bdrrr apt. Near N.D. $185 oer F.lemdein in 'fO"' blood? Become a Want to take classes tor FUN rather than Government po51t1ons at SMC If you are
month !)Ius own ..,lec1rte PhOne 272· 7767 Sa1nt Marys new~ •eporter tor The Ob­
Dinmg Hail last Wed If you nave seen or for As & Cred1t0 >i_,n up tor FREE UNI­To Laura, P·:. ·. ,r·; H. T'sh, Etleen,
~nterestea tn runnmg for ANY pos1t1on server Come to the orgamzattonal
low :d 11. please contact Ldy (7974!_ or 232-40f·7 VERS! ry. Ctasws offered in judo. mixol­Jayrle, Ht.o'1V, L1du.~ Jc)f ,1, Enc, Flounder 
you must come to an mtormat1on meeting meet1ng rhis Thursday at 6 p.m 1n the
TMnk• ogy. fffnsbee. water polo. D&D. dat1ng. Zektt. Gar ., • afld q,r.
Mher Jan. 24 at 6·00 or J~n 25 at 9·()0 Sa1nt Mary's Observer office (basement 
bndge --something for everyone. Thanks -to< r·rnrln,:-,q !ti back •nto the 
p.m Both sess1ons are 1n the Studcnl At· of Reg1na South). Re t11ere
LOST: One dar!< blue CB insUlated w1nter Rf>\/IStratlon Tuesday & Wednesday 6-9 fold and 1Tt':\Jf'g m~ ·~ ,,.... •.l '1\'~JcomeJ
fairs Conferonce Roum 1f vou nave any.iacket, w1:h llght !:llue stnpe last seen :11 ~-~~~TED ] 
io LaFont~ne Ballroom I \eve you all, 
question~. C.a\1 Momoa at 501 7.
Bndgets Sat. night. n you took rt by 3CCJ• Janre (Roxy) dent, pirase return 1tl Call Matt at 1136-<l Thinking 0'1 ~9 ......-climb "" tho>
I NEED A RIDE TO MAC'ISON.WI 

1op? Becoo1e a Sa1nt Mary s n&ws repo,. 
FRiDA'f.<1813

FOUND. A thn1 gold ring. :10 identiflca-­ter for that ftna ptoce ot mor;hnn JO.urndhSf'TI "'TTENT!QN STRATOMATIC
ATrENTIONI\! A TTENTIONI!I A ITEN­Ted and the &.!;1rtati(Jn e: -~neer, l<nown as The Observer Come to our or· FANAl1CS1 Arlit ynu l(lterested 1n par·
tion,at K.eenan party or. ::;atutday . Cali HON~!I Thanks a~:.~-.vn tor ~ ...,•.:~&:1. ourrageous 3214orcometo 105 Kee~~n. TO THE TWO NICEST ;s WELL AS QCIJlllahonal meeting and ftnd out mor.,-! 11c1pa•mg 10 a Stra•nmatic Football
Neeu a nde to CHICAGO on Fri<lay, Jan. 
weekent1. YOUJ\JYS ar$ ;.eGt.
21 Can !e2va anyTime a!ter 3:30 om (or 

Th1s ThurSday at 6 p.m in me G<tlnt Tournament? W"nt to get together for a !lerhap~ earlie') Jim, •8739 
WIUiel!ITGIRLSON !HIS CAMPUS· Love, 
FOUND: Basketball tickei, b.~t.-eer. Far­EILEEN KEOUGH CELIA DRISCOLL Ma1y's Observer office (RAg1oa South game or two? I have the teams from the T~~rv. P~ula and Karen iey and BP Owned by female. ~al\4571 THIS CRAZV SOPHOMORE FRIENO P S. Tea w·pe !.,; £11•11 off your face.
baser!'len~) 1981-62 season. Call Norman at t571 
OFYOURSTHANKSYOU And Wall~· --;,;;we anot~f ~~r. i OST. Red gloves without fil1<j9rs. Lots of LISTEN, ANYTIME YOU WANT ro DO 2 sentimental vaJue. ~found »l<:ase Cali L1z BOTTLES OF CHAMPI'.GNE, ~ GAL­OI)OK5 FOR SALE. Econom1cs 11th, Mark Rolfes-STUD MAN\\\ 
FOR SA._L_E___.]

at8084 LONS Tak1ng S•des, The Problems of Cherloh ;;i F:t. 
OF WINE, AND 72 QUARTS AGAIN--­Philosophy. A Short Calculus, Statistical Atlention Real Men: Today Mary Wilde Fnday, Jan. 21 i..OST: Gray wool KANGOL cap. Lost~~ TECHNICS CASSETTE OECI( LET ME KNOW II! AnalySIS Market1ng. lntro to Personality, passes that "Teen-age" stage. She'll be 7:00, 9:00, '1 :,)() Hayes-Healy Please, my ears ara freez· RS631.Top of line w/0\by Best ot­•SO LONG AS IT'"l NOWHERE IN THE Accounting and L1fesaving call M1chole accepting k1sses all day long... (and mght $1.00. SMr':, Ca1rol1 Hall 
ing\ Call !lU77. fPr.x11 ?8 N!!~:.A FltTIJAE!\1) LOVE Y.~ USA 233-6456 too!!) Happy Birthday, Mary Love, all 
._________,..,.____________<OA"'IIII'~-~·~-----•••.,......'~.-.w ...,.Mo<...,.,..,.,.,.,..........,_.., _______________,___•__________,________ 
The Observer Wednesday, January 19, 1983-pageS 
USFL makes inroads 
Blitz to sign Lions' White 
Features 
CHICAGO ( AP) -The Chicago Blitz of the United States Football League said yesterday they were on the verge ofsigning "a major Nation­al Football League player." and a source said the negotiations in­volved Detroit Lion~ linebacker Stan White. 
If the Blitz doe.s sign White, he would become the first player active during the la~t NFL season to jump to the fledgling USFL, which begins play March 6. 
Blitz spokesman Kay Schultz said he was told to prepare for. a news conference today to announce the signing of a "major" NFL player. Schultz said he did not know who the player was. 
A source, who asked for anonymity, told The Associated Press the player was the 32-year-old White, an 11-year NFL veteran and one of the most militant members of the National Football League Players Association's executive council. He is also a practicing attorney who negotiates his own contracts. 
White could not be reached for comment at his Detroit home. 
Lions spokesman Don Kremer said in a telephone interview that, "I'd heard rumors (of the signing). l saw Stan in the office yesterday (Monday) and asked him about it. All he did was grin. 
"I've heard nothing official on it and until it happens, we won't have any comment." 
Blitz coach George Allen, a former NFL head coach who owns part of the Chicago franchise, would say on­ly, "You're always interested in somebody of the caliber of Stan White." 
Allen's son, Bruce, who is the club's general manager, said White was "one of the top five guys we are pursuing." 
The source, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified, said signing White would prove the club's determination to field a "respectable" product. 
"Both (Tim) Spencer and (Trumaine) Johnson (recently signed by the Blitz) are legitimate NFL prospects," he said. "Getting White gives the club another push down the road to respectability." 

Goid medals given back to Jim Thorpe 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Two gold medals won by Jim Thorpe in the 1912 Olympic Games were restored to his family yesterday, 70 years after he was stripped ofhis amateur status because he accepted 52 a game to play baseball. 
Juan Antonio Samaranch of Spain, president ofthe International Olym­pic Commmittee. officialy returned the gold medals for the pentathlon and decathlon events to the family of Thorpe, who died in I953 at age 64. 
"The 70-year-old marathon is over," said Thorpe's daughter, Char­lotte, 63, one of six of the athlete's children who attended the ceremony at the Biltmore Hotel. 
Another daughter, Grace, said she thought her father would have only said, "It's about time." 
Thorpe, an American Indian, won 
the grueling Olympic events at the 
age of 24 in Stockholm, Sweden, but 
lost the titles seven months later when he admitted he was paid to play for a resort baseball team in 1910. 
The gold medals awarded yester­day were not actually those won by Thorpe, because "it would be unfair to ask survivors of the second-place finishers to return their (gold) medals," Samaranch had said. 
Samaranch said that since Thorpe's disqualfication in 1913, "it is impossible to enumerate all those who protested against this decision and made every effort in order to reverse it." 
"In the end, when the IAAF (International Amateur Athletics Federation) and United States 0 lym­pic Committee had finally accepted to reinstate him, subsequent modification of the so-called 'amateur rule' into a much more positive 'eligibility rule' of the IOC enabled us to take this historic deci­sion." 


WOMAN'S SPIRITUALITY 
JAN. 28-30 RETREAT 
WITH TERESA GODWIN PHELPS AND MARY ANN ROEMER 
FOR: Graduate Students, Staff $8.00 fee, Friday Evening to Sunday noon at a lake Michigan cabin. Sign up at Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
LIMITED REGISTRATION 
an 
campusministry 
The source also declined to com­ment on the terms of the contract being discussed with White. 
Spencer, the Big Ten's leading rus­her last seas,on, and Johnson, an All­America wide receiver from Grambling, signed contracts last week after being drafted by Chicago in the first round of the lJSFL's col­legiate draft. 
White, a two-time, all-Big Ten selection at Ohio State, was drafted in the 17th round of the 1972 draft by the Baltimore Colts. He set an NFL linebacker standard with eight interceptions in the 19'5 season and stole seven passes during 1977. He was traded to Detroit following the 1979 season for an eigh'th-round draft pick. 
White went on to become Detroit's player representative and defensive signal-caller. Last season, the 6-foot-1, 225-pound defender recorded 44 solo tackles and three interceptions. 
Writers, Meeting: 
All features writers, including regular columnists and reviewers must attend the beginning of the semester features writers' meeting. The meeting is open to any and all who would like to join the features staff in any capacity. 
bring a notebook and lots of ideas, as well as any scheduling preferences you may have. 
10 p.m., ThursdaY, January 20. 
In the Caron Lounge LaFortune. 

What kind of accountant does it take togo beyondthebottom line? 
It takes one who IS not only concerned w1th a cltent·s fmanc1al statements. but w1th their bustness as well. 
Because. what a busmess needs from 1ts accountant IS not JUSt a s1gnature on an annual report or tax return. 
More than that. 1t needs sound bus1ness advice and 1nnovat1ve th1nk1ng What we call gotng beyond the bottom l1ne. If you want to be that k1nd of profes­Sional. we·re for you 
At DH&S. we'll offer you opportun1ty for growth. along w1th the experience and knowledge to make that growth poss1ble. 
We base promotion on merit. not senior­tty. So. how far you go. and how fast. is essent1ally up to you 
You'll have frequent dtscusstons w1th your supervisors-to talk about your ach1evements and your goals. 
We also offer many forms of cont1nu1ng educat1on. From rev1ew courses for the CPA exam. to ones designed to keep you up to date w1th the newest developments in your profession 
In short. we care as much about your future as you do. It's the only way we can keep gotng beyond the bottom line. 
Deloitte Haskins+ Sells 
Beyond the bottom line 
© 1981 Delo1tte Hask1ns & Sells. 1114 Avenue of the Amencas. New York. NY 10036 
Wednesday,January 19, 1983-page 10
The Observer 

~... Captains 

Debbi Hensley made a career out ofdefense in high school, but has improved her offensive game enougb to pe1torm as co-captain witb Tberesa Mullins for this season's women's basketball team. '"fike Riccardi profiles both ladies in bis story that begins on page 
12. (Photo by Scott Bower). 

Free University  
Sign ap for classes )an. 18 &19 from 6-9pm ~ in the La Fortune Ballroom  ·,  
COME )OIH THE FUH  


Marketing&Sales 
Career 
Opportunities Westpoint Pepperell A major Fortune 500 corporation wiII hold interviews for Marketing Sales positions (for class of 1983) on Tuesday· February 8. 
To make an appointment and learn more about WestPoint Pepperell, contact the Placement Bureau. 
Manufacturers of Martex, Lady Pepperell, and other national brand products. Marketing Headquarters-New York. 
COMMITMENT 
to 

CARING AS AN AIR FORCE NURSE 
A .new world of nursing opens when you become an Air Force nurse. 
You are committed to the welfare of service members and their dependents. With worldwide employment and travel opportunities. you'll receive a highly competitive pay and compensation package. 
If you're pursuing a bachelor of science degree in nursing and are qualified. you could become a member of the USAF Nurse Corps through Air Force ROTC. You may also be eligible for an AFROTC two-year nursing scholarship which pays full tuition, lab and incidental fees. books, plus $100 a month tax-free. During the last two years of AFROTC. you will receive $li{J a month tax-free during the school year even if not on scholarship. ' 
So wh1le working for your degree. consider the advantages of Air Force ROTC and the exciting world of an Air Force nurse. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­The U.S. Olympic Committee and the U.S. Amateur Basketball Associa­tion have reaffirmed their support for Bob Knight as coach of the 1984 
U.S. Olympic team. 
I 
Knight, the Indiana University coach, was criticized in a recent editorial in the Washington Post, which called for his removal as U.S. Olympic coach because of his be­
havior during the Pan American 
Games in Puerto Rico in I979. 
Knight, the U.S. men's coach in the Pan Am Games, was convicted in ab­sentia of assaulting a Puerto Rican policeman. The incident stemmed from an argument over a practice court. 
"Our director, Col. Don Miller, 
Eating Disorders 
• Anorexia Nervosa 
has given all his support to Bob 
Knight," said liSOC publiicist Mike 
Moran. "Basically, what Don Miller said when I talked to him was that this (complaint) happens all the time, that we've received letters once in a while objecting to Bob but that we've made our choice and we've accepted what the ABAUSA has done." 
The ABAUSA recommended Knight for the Olympic coaching job last summer. 
"We are very satisfied we picked the right man to coach our Olympic team," said Bill Wall ofthe basketball association. ''We are further ahead in our Olympic planning with Knight that we've ever been. Knight's cooperation has been outstanding." 
A 10-week 
structured therapy 
group every Monday 
evening, beginning 
Notre Dame campus 
Limited Enrollment 
For further information 
Contact: 
Dan Rybicki, PSY.D. 
Susan Steibe, PH.D. 
239-7336 
Mary Theis, M.A. 
284-4565 



Contact Capt Gomez 
219-239-6635 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
AboutAFROTCatNotre Dame 
35 Years on Campus! 
ahead I 0-S. :\1ullins didn't leave the !ineup until the Irish had built a 13­point lead on their way to a ""8-68 win. 
"I was a maniac at Georgetown," ~;ays Mullins. "Actually. I just get psyched when I get a chance to play a key role. It's a lot of fun. I never know when she'll play me, so I've gotta stay prepar..ed." 
"TM isalu•ays ready to play," says DiStanislao. "She stays more on top of her game than anybody else on this team -and that's a good lesson for our kids. She does constructive things when she's down on herself, not negative thing~." 
While the captains possess diver­gent personal styles, they do con­centrate their efforts on the same goal: the continuing progress of ND's embryonic women's basketball program. 
"I thought it might come together against Maryland," says Hensley. "We still haven't put together that 
•Consistent 40 minutes without 
lulls." "The thing is, we're still looking to 
come  together"  says  Hensley.  
"We've definitely got  the person­ 
nel."  

"I guess Debbi is better than I am at putting things into words," says a self-effacing Mullins. "My job is to be fired up and help the team maintain its enthusiasm, set a good example -and do whatever I can to make this team a winner." 
Winner -all differences between Hensley and Mullins end with that word. 

Tberesa Mullins 1982-83 co-captain 


NEW HOURS 
WE ARE NOW OPEN FOR LUNCH MON. THRU FRI. 
MON-THURS 11 A.M.-10 P.M. FRill A.M.-12 MIDNIGHT SAT 4 P.M.·12 MIDNIGHT CLOSED SUNDAY 

r----------:1
YALUAILI COU~M 
'2'" OFJ UI'E fiUA 
'1'" OFJ SIAU 01 IEIIItll PIUA 
OHfR NOT \I.UIU WITH ANY OTHER AuRELIO S SPEQAl DISCOUNT OR COUPON \lAUD AT S 8 
AUREUOOS OHL V 
Coupon expire< Feb.1, 1983. 
VALUAILE COUPON 
IWVEIY SltCW. 
--WFIEIIOJIQ! 
"=.::::" 
1500MINIMUM 
OfFEA NOT VAUO WITH ANV OTHER AURE.l.Kl"S SP£ClAl Dt5COUH1 Ofl COUPOH VAllO AT S 8 
AURfUO"S OHL V 
Coupon expires Feb. 1, 1983. 
L.:---------~ 
FREE SALAD WITH ANY PIZZA, PASTA OR SANDWICH LUNCHEON ORDER. (Dining room only) 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 

''""<>!' 277 4950 • 1 \till
Olllll'tl' ''''" '"" 
continuedfrompage 12 
started all 2S last year. This year's outstanding recruiting class, and the development of sophomore guard Laura Dougherty has relegated her to a till-in role. 
'"It hasn't been easy (to accept the playing-time reduction)," admits Mullins. "But, being captain makes the adjustment easier. You realize that there's a lot more to the game than just playing." 
"My role is to be a leader, and to push people in practice, to give my 100 percent. I've been here three years, and I remember things like the 76-point game (a 124-48 loss to South Carolina two years ago)." 
Her play two weeks ago at Georgetown, though, had to give Mary D. pause. Her six points in 17 minutes weren't staggering, but the minutes she played were Notre Dame's most effective. 
Coming in with Georgetown 
Indiana's Knight keeps reins for '84 Olympics 
Ihe~rver========================================= 
~~~~~=========================W==e=d=n=es=d=a=y,=J=an=u=a=ry=T=l=9,=1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e==l1 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 


Simon 
oma Of t>Ptli'/rUfh crXJ!IJstt· 
!/116. f/IT!f£1? T6Rtc 5fti1K!II/G. 
JCfiN .~ THI5 IS ()1110/'J. I i/E£0 TO ~At?W If ~f!Tft/11 I~ fiN EVIL f()f?C£ TO BE 
CCI{T£tiOCO WIT/f. 
/ 

Aspirin Man 
pssT, ASPIR.INT'IAN, IT'5 J /'1/N UTES AFTER PARIETALS 
AJJ D IH E R. £Is sTIL-L II GIK.L IN
OT"i:· 
YeP/ I GOf WHAT YOV WANT.t 

!-\OW 'Pair ANIMALS?
51Rif5 API!Jf PIVORC£l 
YA Ul<t ANIMA(.S
5TRIPJ ABOVT BABI~S! STRIPS AOOVf FWMB6R5.' 
IN ~C 51RIP5? 
STRIPS ABOVf DIVORC£17 
\ 

Jeb Cashin 
David]. Adams 
Ll~ I WAS 5AYI.,(IG, 
TIIEfi£ ARE. TII"IES j W liEN ONE PI /.IS/i USE. D/Sf#~ESSIOIV 
'WHEN UPHOLD IN<; 
~·~w. 
' 

/HEN t.>E'LL HAYE 10 8 CISI IN. I SHOUI./JAJ'T
R w~ f~[? 
..,_., ~ ...~A¥1 
\ 
5 f"JtAIUT£5 IS £#0{4GH COA/fA~. "J"US 'Tf<:.£ r!lJSI f3£ S€RVE..0/ 

ACROSS 29 Signify 63 Old Norse 25 German 1 Painting 33 Embark collection admiral 

and sculp·  36 Beset  of poems  28 Rarln'  
ture  37 Military  64 Item of  to go  
5 Brinker  address  property  30 Kiln  
9 Collect  38 Shield  65 Great Lake  31 Recap  
14 Vessel  40 Spanish  66 Leak slowly  32 Guldonlan  
15 Countenance  title: abbr.  67 PeeWee or  notes  
16 Showy  41 Government  Della  33 Spotted  
plant  official  68 Certain  rodent  

17 Indian city 44 Arises 18 Pome fruit 47 Cat or goat 19 Mentions 48 More crude 20 Rutabaga 49 Uncommon 22 Antidotes 51 Teachers 24 Prosperous 55 Drizzle 
times 59 Rat 26 Ford 60 Raccoon's 27 Brotherly relative 
love feast 61 Lots 
Tuesday's Solution 

1119/83 
All Rights Reserved 
horse 34 Atop 69 Hit signs 35 Chinese club DOWN 39 Moslem 
1 "If you go priest long enough 42 Form of without -..." argument 
2 Knave 43 Black 3 Sojourn mineral 4 -atten· 45 State bird 
tion (walt of Hawaii In a sol· 46 Naive dlerly way) 50 Fudd or 
S Elated Gantry 
6 Preslden-52 More tlal nick· ancient name 53 Cowboy 
7 Close by entertain· 8 Scatter ment 9 Consents 54 Cookies 
10 Damsels 55 Cicatrix 11 Opposed 56 Sltfor a 12 Snick portrait 
and -57 Scratch out 13 Back talk 58 Continental 21 VIllain In prefix 
"Othello" 62 Hush-hush 23 Irate group 
&nior Bar 
Campus 
•Lunchtime-Lunch 
Fast Sign-ups', Sponsored hy World Hunger Coalition, Dining Halls 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "MammaUan Cell Reproduction and Its Regulation." Prof. Da\•id M. Prescott, University of Colorado, Galvin Life 


Sciences Auditorium 
•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Functions of Rapid GroV\>th." Prof. David E. Marker, Yale University, 226 CCMB 

•5:30 
p.m. -Amnesty International Meeting, Center for Social Concern (old WNDL: building) 

•6:30 
p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns Bldg. 

•6:45 
p.m. -Japan Club General Meeting, Little Theatre. LaFortune 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Three Days of The Condor," Engineering Audiwrium, s 1 

•7 
and 9:30 p.m. -Film, "Grease," Carroll Hall. Sponsored by SAPB, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Pax Christi General Meeting, Presbytery Basement 

•8 
p.m.-Basketball, ND Men vs. Bucknell. ACC Arena 

•9 
p.m.-Co-RecVolleyball, ;>\ngela, SMC 


7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 
16 M-A-S-H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Repon 16 All in the family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Real People 22 CBS Special: The Anne Murray Special 28 Tales of the Gold Monkey 34 A Skating Spectacular 16 facts oflife 22 CBS Wednesday Night Movie 28 The Fall Guy 34 Kennedy Center Tonight 16 Family Ties 16 Quincy 28 Dynasty 34 That Delicate Balance 16 NewsCemer 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 

The Far Side 


G~ Let us warm you up with our 
Wed. Nite DRAFT SPECIAL Alsof Introducing Pitchers 
Chautaugua LaFortune Ballroom $1 

-
Wednesday,January 19, 1983-page 12
S~orts 

Notre Denne's wrestlers scored decisive victories over Depauw and Dayton Universities last night in a triangular meet in the ACC. Scott Bentiz,enga, 
(Photo by Ed Carroll). 
Mullins, Hensley lead Notre Dame 
By MIKE RICCARDI Notre Dame women's basketball finding myselfin the wrong place on Sports Writer team, Hensley and Mullins' fire-and­offense. I had a lot to learn about ice act fuels Coach Mary DiStanis­what a guard does." You couldn't find two more dif­lao's machine. Neither is on The 5-6 chemical engineering ferent people. 
scholarship or is possessed of major didn't even try out for the 
One, from Wilmington, Del., is a awesome talent. Both make it on Irish squad as a freshman -she street-smart Easterner whose en­desire, intelligence and hustle. thought she couldn't make the team thusiasm is evident with every word "They're hard workers who lead -but DiStanislao's appointment as 
she speaks. by example," says DiStanislao. head coach in 1980 gave her a new 
The other, from Oklahoma City, is "They've earned my utmost respect, basketbal-l life. a genuinely modest sort of person and they have the respect of their "The first time I had seen Coach who possesses a refreshingly easy teammates." was at a Bookstore game I was smile and unpretentious air. Hensley was an all-metro playing in." said Hensley. "I knew 
Debbi Hensley, the Oklahoman, is defensive player in six-player girls' about the move (to Division I) and I the on-court personification ofcool. high school basketball in her had heard that she ( DiStanislao) She ruffles no feathers and prefers to hometown. The adjustment to the stessed defense. and that was the lead by example. five-player, full-court game -and_ strong point of my game." 
Theresa Mullins, the Easterner, offensive play -didn't come easily The road leading to a starting spot plays Hotspur to Hensley's cool to her. for a Division I team after being a Prince Hal. At a practice, she's the "I was in pretty good condition," defensive standout in high school is screamer, the instigator. And when says Hensley. "But the up-and-down not necessarily straight, or smoothly ~he plays, she plays with an desire up-and-down the floor stuff was for paved. that belies the fact that she may not the birds. I was used to taking the "Debbi's not an excellent shooter. 
have the talent of her highly­breather when our team was on the nor is she an excellent ballhandler," recruitied teammates. offensive end. I'd get the steals and says DiStanislao. "She is an excellent As co-captains of this season never make the layup. I'd always be defensive player, who makes up for 
her limitations with hard work." 
''I'm not playing on a scholarship or anything like that," says Hensley. "And it can be intimidating to go
Golic leads wrestlers 
against a guard like (UCLA's) Mic­helle McCoy. But you can't think like that; you've got to play t with con­
to triangular wins 
fidence aain~t the Top 20 teams." 
The graduate of Oklahoma City's ByJEFF BLUMB Baty lifted his season mark to a very Mount St. Mary's High School has Sports Writer impressive 14-I-I. become the tloor leader of the Irish 
"Phil always wrestles well," says offense, and while she'll never be 
Before perhaps their largest home Bruno. "He is definitely one of our mistaken for a Norm Nixon, she has crowd of the season, the Notre best." pushed herself into becoming a Dame wrestlers beat Depauw 52-0 Getting back on the winning track capable, if not flashy, offensive and Dayton 40-5 last night in the last night was I 50 pound sopho­player. Her 2H assists and 18 steals ACCPit. more Scott Bentivenga. After losing this season, many in clutch situa­
The competition was much two matches at last week's triangular tions, have been invaluable to the tougher than the score margins may with North Central and Western Il­Irish: However, it' is her composure indicate. The fact is, the Irish linois, Bentivenga bounced back under fire which makes her most wrestled very well. with a third round pin and a narrow valuable as Notre Dame's captain. 
Leading the Irish with two pins 6-5win. Fire is what you see in Mullins' was sophomore Heavyweight Mike "It was quite a speedy recovery," eyes when she takes the floor, but Golic. A first year collegiate chuckled Bruno of Bentivenga's her relaxed off-court manner initial­wrestler, Golic pinned his Dayton night and day effect at the last two ly belies her intensity. However, the opponent first at 0:2I of the second home meets." personable junior gives away her round before firmly pinning On a roll the past few weeks, soph­considerable desire and resolve. Depauw's hea~·eight at I :25 ofthe omore Louis Carnesale continued "If you work hard, more often t1rst round. his winning ways last night with a than not you'll reap benefits," says 
Making his feat all the more im­second round pin and a I2-7 win. In Mullins in a manner reminiscent of pressive, Golic is just getting back doing so, Carnesale upped his her equally intense coach. "So, I did into the swing of things after a ton­season totals to 2I-8. what I had to do to make this team ­silectomy one week ago and a prior "Louis has been sick the past few really, it is the only way I can earn thumb injury. weeks also," noted Bruno. "But he my own respect -work hard." 
"He will only get better and better always wrestles well at home. I think Mullins worked hard enough to now that the injuries are behind it has something to do with a earn a starting berth last winter. hirr:," says Irish coach Brother girlfriend in the bleachers or some­While not a high scorer, the intel­joseph Bruno, C.S.C. thing." Freshman Eric Crown has ligent guard has had a distinguished 
Also leading the Irish -.vas Cedar had trouble finding opponents at Notre Dame career. She played in all Springs, Mich. native, Phil Baty. Baty, II8 all season long. And last night 28 games her freshman season, and at I67, posted a first round pin and a 
See IRISH, page 8 See CAPTAINS, page 10
-
hard fought 5-0 victory. In doing so, 
Irish must av~oid flat play against tough foe 
By RICH O'CONNOR Sigl shot -t9 percent from the field .\ports Writer last year in his first season as a start­er. This year he is averaging nine 
Monday, the Notre Dame basket­points and five rebounds a game. hall team was issued another warn­At one forward for the Bison is 6-8 ing: "No team can be taken lightly." senior Craigg Cody, who lead last 
Tonight, Irish basketball faithful year's team in field goal accuracy by will see how well this young team connecting on 54 percent of his learned its lesson as Notre Dame shots. The three-year starter leads 
plays host to Bucknell University of Bucknell in shooting this season Lewisburg, Pa. Tipoff is 8 p.m. at the while averaging eight points and tlve ACC. rebounds a game. 
This will be the tlrst trip to South Rounding out the starting lineup Bend for the Bisons -the second for the Bbon is 6-5 forward Eric East Coast Conference opponent the Hegedus. Irish face this week. Coming off a 7-'·Eric is the most consistent player 
20 season last year, Bucknell brings a we have and very very intelligent," ";-6 record to the ACC -including a says Woollum. "He doesn't have 29-point loss to Princeton, a two­great speed, but he shoots, passes. 
point loss to LaSalle, and a 12-point handles the ball well and plays solid loss to Clemson. defense." 
On the other side of the ledger, Hegedus b the team's leading the Bisons destroyed Wilkes College rebounder, averaging six a game. by 25, heat Lycoming by I6, Combined with his excellent shoot­defeated Muhlenberg by II, took ing percentage, and eight-point Colgate by three and routed Niagara scoring average, Hegedus is one of by 21. Despite the apparent lack of the keys to whatever success Buck­competition in its schedule, nell has had this season. seventh-year Bucknell coach Coming oft' the bench for the Charlie Woollum's team cannot be Bison are co-captainsjay Wright and underestimated. Ray Moss. 
"Bucknell is a better team then Wright, a guard who hails from Lafayette," says Irish coach Digger Churchville, Pa., was Bucknell's 
Phelps. "They will do the same lea•ling scorer a year ago at I2 points things against us. so we have to be a game, and also led the squad in ready to play. Beating Notre Dame steals and minmes played. This year, can make any team's season no mat­he is seeing less action, averaging ter what their record." five points a game, as Woollum has After seeing conference opponent opted to go with a youth movement. 
Lafayette hang tough with the Irish Moss, a forward, is also averaging (the Leopards lost just 5I-40 on five points a game, down from seven Monday), Bucknell can be expected a year ago. 
to arrive feeling that it can beat Only one other Bucknell player­
Notre Dame. Wes McGregor-has seen action in 
Starting at point guard for Wool­all eleven Bucknell basketball lum's Bisons will be 6-I junior Cal games. The 6-4 senior averages Puriefoy, who led last year's team in seven points and four rebounds in 
assists with H8 and in free throw ac­I 5 minutes ofaction per game. curacy at 74 percent. This season, he An aggressive team, Bucknell is the team's leading scorer, averag­could give Notre Dame all it can 
ing almost ten points a game while handle if it is allowed to take second continuing to lead in assists with 39 shots or if the Irish are still flat in II games. following Saturday's victory over At the off-guard slot for Bucknell Marquette. 
is 6-5 sophomore)aye Andrews. Last year's second leading scorer at 8.2, For the Irish. there may not be any Andrews is averaging nine points, more second chances to learn im­
two assists and three rebounds a portant lessons like the one game for the Bison. Lafayette taught them Monday with­Holding down the center spot for out also. feeling the agony of defeat Bucknell is 6-9 junior Ed Sigl. -one that would be even especially 
"Ed is one of the better skilled big agonizing during the tina! half of the people we've ever had," says Wool­season with the possibility of an lum. "He is one ofthe main keys for a NCAA playoff bid riding on the successful season." outcome ofevery game. 
P.O. B(JXQ Ode to a great Bear 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The follow­worships him ing "tribute" to recently retired But he'd give all this up, his Alabama football coach Paul friends proclaim "Bear" Bryant arrived this week For just one win over Ole from an anonymous poet in Notre Dame Philadelphia. We thought we'd share it with our readers. Bear's wins were impressive, 
rarely a fluke "Bear Bryant: Often smashing Georgia, A Living Legend" Auburn and Duke 
He's crushed all those who dare The Bear is a legend, the Bear is to come forth great Except that small Catholic 
He won every game when he school from the North played Penn State But with all his glory, and all his Oh he's had hard times and even fame some strain 
He could never figure out how He's lost some close ones to beat Notre Dame causing him strain 
But forgetting this, what hurts That he has charisma is not just a even more whim His Notre Dame record? Zero 
He has a following that just and four! 
I 






