
These unfortunate students are victimes of a suggested that class schedules be adjusted to phenomena which curses a major portion of the eliminate the inconvenience. A new cafeteria on lu nch diners--long lines. An editorial recently the east quad might be the best idea. 
U.S. denies Japanese news reports; 'We have not found the black box' 
--------------------~-------------------------------­
Chicken wings -page 5 

Labor Union worried; Eastern demands cuts 
Associated Press 
TOKYO U.S. spokesmen deniedJapanese news media reports Tuesday that the U.S. Navy has located the flight data and cockpit voice recorders ofthe South Korean airliner shot down by the Soviets al­most four weeks ago. 
"As of this afternoon, we have not found the black hox; I'm not waffling on that one," said Lt. Gary Shrout, spokesman for the U.S. Navy in Japan. 
But his superior officer Capt. 
have absolutely no information that foreign observers to one of the would confirm the Japanese media search ships. reports on recovery." He told repor­Japanese government spokesman ters "there is no indication that Masaharu Gotoda, the chief anyone has located the flight re­secretary to the Cabinet, said the corder and is about to haul it up or Japanese officials were invited to be 
anything ofthat sort." present when the Americans tried to 
Navy officials in Japan say they bring up the recorders. have no direct information on the progress of the search north of Hok­Associated Press 
Continental Airlines resumed some of its flights at discount rates Tuesday three days after going to bankruptcy court, while a union leader denied claims hy Eastern Airlines that it must chop wages by 15 percent to avoid Continental's fate. 
The first Continental DC-9 took off from Houston in the fog at 7:31 
a.m. with six passengers aboard. Billie Tafelski, who checked in the passengers for the flight, said she wished she had .their addresses "so I could write them a thank you let­
ter." 
Pilots were working at less than half salary and the airline was flying to fewer than one-third of its pre­vious destinations. Only 35 percent ofits 12,000 employees were on the job. 
Continental on Saturday filed for protection from creditors while it reorganizes under Chapter I I of federal bankruptcy laws. It cited $471.9 million losses since January 1979 and blamed low-cost competi­tion, reservations systems con­trolled by two other carriers and labor costs. 
The Houston-based airline, once the nation's eighth largest, offered S49 one-way fares on domestic flights until Friday, and after a slow start Tuesday morning, travelers began queuing up for the cut-rate tickets. 
"We'r having to go roundabout but we'll get to spend some time in 
San Francisco," said Michael Gerlich of Houston. He and a companion, Connie Harrison, also of Houston, were planning to travel from Hous­ton to Portland, Ore., one of78 cities Continental served until Saturday ·when it trimmed its destinations to 
25. 
On Monday, Eastern Airlines 
Chairman Frank Borman said in a 
videotaped message that without 
across-the-board pay cuts, the 
Miami-based carrier will he forced 
to go to bankruptcy court or cease 
operations altogether. 
But Charles Bryan president ofthe 
13,000 member union of Eastern 
machinists, said: "we do not accept 
his doomsday remedy." 
"We've done extensive research 
at Eastern Airlines and they're not 
about to go bankrupt," Bryan said. 
"The only reason they would go bankrupt is if they did it the same as (President Frank) Lorenzo at Con­tinental to destroy the unions," he said. "The company is not in that bad ofshape." 
Bryan suggested Eastern boost 
revenues by limiting discount fares. 
Eastern spokesman Tom Myers said, "We're not going to debate. The tape will do all our talking." 
Eastern lost S I 06 million during 
the first seven months ofthe year af­
ter sustaining a net loss ofnearly S75 
million last year. 
Borman's message to the 37,500 
Eastern workers called for l 5 per­
cent wage cuts effective Nov. I and 
see PLANES, page 4 
kaido, Japan's northernmost island. The U.S. task force reports to the 
Reagan wants increased IMF help
fleet headquarters in Hawaii, the in· formation is relayed to the Pentagon in Washington, and the Pentagon 
Heber E. Darton, was less incisive. He said he had been in contact with Washington and 7th Fleet headquar­ters in Hawaii, and "neither has any­thing at all to indicate any change in the situation." 
President Reagan, asked hy repor­ters in Washington if the United States had recovered the recorders, replied, "I have no knowledge that we have. No." 
Alan Romberg, the State Depart­ment's deputy spokesman, said "we tells the Tokyo spokesmen. 

NHK, The Japan Broadcasting Corporation, reported Japanese government sources told U.S. ships pinpointed the recorders at a depth of 2,300 feet in international waters west of Moneron, a small Soviet is­land offsouthwest Sakhalin. 
Bolstering the report that recovery operations were about to begin, a Navy helicopter flew two of­ficials of the Japanese Maritime Safety Agency and eight other 
Associated Press efforts to win congressional ap­president on the IMF bill. No proval ofan increase in the U.S. con­Republicans ere targeted in such a 
WASHINGTON President tribution to the IMF, although manner. Reagan told Congress yesterday sharply different versions have White House spokesman Larry it should abandon "harsh rhetoric passed the House and Senate. Speakes said there had been no deci­and unreasonable demands" and get Opponents contend the money sion on whether Reagan would on with an S8.5 billion boost for the would be used to bail out interna­respond to O'Neill's request for a let­International Monetary Fund (IMF). tional banks that have made ter. 
Failure to act, the president "imprudent" loans to developing na­warned, threatens an "economic tions that already are heavily in debt. The United States is the largest nightmare that could plague genera­Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill has 
contributor to the IMF, and its lead is tions to come." refused to move the legislation followed by the other world Reagan spoke at the opening along until Reagan meets his economic powers.meeting of the IMF and the World demand for a letter ofapology to 20 Bank, the two biggest lending House Democrats who were at­
IfCongress fails to approve the in­agencies in the world with 146 tacked in a Republican campaign let­crease, Reagan predicted, other in­member nations. ter for "supporting communism" dustrialized nations would refuse to The president has been stymied in when they voted to support the provide their share. 
HPC plans United Way fund drive 
By JANE KRAVCIK eliminating dorm competition was "Many requests have been made for News Staff a positive step. "I don't agree with stereos and video cassette advertising the amounts of dona­recorders," Cade commented. Preliminary plans for a United tions. I think that you might collect A representative of the 
Way fund drive were discussed last more money without as many Homecoming Committee announc­night at the Hall Presidents Council negative feelings through ed that a "great legs contest" will be (HPC) meeting in Lewis Hall. eliminating dorm c_ompetition." held as a part of the Homecoming 
The emphasis of the drive will be , A matching funds program in activities. place upon the total amount col­which the University augments the Those wishing to enter the con­lected on campus in order to money allocated by the HPC to the test should send a photo to eliminate competitiOn among dorms also was discussed. Scott Maureen O'Neil in room 848 Pas­dorms. HPC chairman Mike Carlin Cade, manager of the matching querilla East by October 19. The 
said this year there would be "more funds program, announced that the winner will be announced at the pep 
emphasis on education for people budget this year was increased from rally before the Pittsburgh game. who don't know what they are $10,000 to $20,000. donating to." The money will mainly be used The contest is open to both men 
Lyons' president Susan Joyce felt for social spaces in the dorms. and women. 
-
The Observer Wednesday, September 28, 1983 -page 2 
In Brief' · 
President Carter's evangelist sister Ruth Carter Stapleton, 54, died Monday of pancreatic cancer. Mrs. Stapleton wrote two books entitled "The Gift of Inner Healing" and "Brother Billy." Mrs. Stapleton established headquarters for her ministry on a 29-acre northern Texas ranch in 1978.-AP 
Brian Buescher, 22 a 1983 graduate of Notre Dame, and formerly of Decatur, Ind., was found dead Sunday morning in his Orlando, Fla. apartment. Beuscher was stationed with the U.S. Navy in Orlando. The cause of death remains under investigation by U.S. Navy officials and Orange County, Fla. police units.-The Observer 
In Harare, Zimbabwe, more than 2,000 women, waving clenched fists and anti-British placards, marched on the British High Commission to protest what they called British in­terference in the affairs of their country. The demonstrators, many with babies strapped on their backs, shouted "pack up and go" out­side the commission. Britain has protested to Zimbabwe, the former British colony of Rhodesia, . for detaining six white air force officers after they were acquitted of capital charges of sabotage. Prime Minister Robert Mugabe said Britain's "interference" jeopardized relations between the two countries. ­
AP 
Of Interest . 
. . 
· 0 ... 
Sophomores interested in a career in government 
are eligible for scholarships from the Harry S. Truman Scholar­ship Foundation. A meeting will be held tomorrow afternoon at 4 in room 12I O'Shaughnessy Hall, for those interested in applying. The scholarships are awarded on the basis of merit and cover tui­tion, room and board, fees and books up to a maximum of $5000 annually. Father Robert Austgen, assistant dean of Arts and Let­ters, has additional information on the program.-The Observer 
The Regina Hall election results are tinally_in. 
The new officers are Karen Cook, President; Jenny Blanz, Vice­president; and the new treasurer for the 1983-84 school year is Susan McCrory. -The Observer 
The Board of Governors of Saint Mary's met 
Monday night in Haggar Hall. Among the subjects on the meeting's agenda were the United Way collection, which will be run by the individual dorms. Adiscussion of new shuttle routes was also hashed over. Suggestions were made concerning the buses no longer stopping at McCandless and Regina halls but at the Lemans and Holy Cross halls. -The Observer 
Registration continues for the Saint Mary's College 
Bowl games at the Haggar College Center reception desk until Oct. 
6. An organizational meeting will be Oct. 6 at 6 p.m. in the center for all who sign up for the question and answer team game. -The Observer 
VVeather · 
Sunny and warm today, with an expected high or 
81 degrees. The rest of week and into the weekend should see daytime highs from the upper 70s to the mid 80s. Nightime lows in the 50s. -AP 
The questions continue 
Perhaps this column is overdue ... 
After watching Notre Dame get abused on national television Saturday night, and realizing that the Irish have lost five of their last six games, many people are asking some probing questions. 
Why? Why is it that a football program that has had three of the best recruiting years in NCAA history (according to the experts) has gone 12-12-1 over the past three seasons? When dozens ofParade high school All-Americans are assembled, shouldn't they at least be able to stay above the .500 mark? 
Why is it that a program that was one win away from a national championship in 1980 has literally fallen apart? Were John Scully, Scott Zettek, Tom Gibbons and Pete Holohan (the four starters who graduated after the 9·2­1 1980 campaign) so valuable that the team's record should fall to 5-6 the following season? 
Why is it that a team with the benefit of some of the greatest coaching minds in the college ranks looks so disorganized week after 
week? 
And, finally, the crucial question -is it time that Father Joyce admits that he made a mistake? 
When Dan Devine an­nounced his resignation in August, 1980, speculation about the identity of Notre Dame's next coach came from all over the country. People like Don Shula, Joe Restic and George Welsh were nominated. We even heard that Lou Holtz was in­terested. 
But what everyone didn't know was that, in the eyes of 
the only man who counted, there was only one man for the job. And so, after a couple of months of toying with the media, Father Joyce announced that Gerry Faust would be Notre Dame's next head coach. 
As everyone knows, Faust took the campus by storm. He visited every dorm, male and female. He played fris­bee with the students. He ate pizza with the students. Everyone loved him. Compared to Dan Devine, he looked like Knute Rockne. In fact, people (including Digger Phelps) started comparing him to Rockne. All of this before he ever led the Irish onto the field. 
Now, three years and 25 games later, Faust would be lucky to have the respect that Dan Devine had on campus. The mystique, the luster, the enthusiasm has all worn off. That sort ofthing happens when a team loses. 
Students and alumni are tired ofhearing about a great school, about a great student body, about a great tradi­tion. They want to hear about some great wins. 
Coach Faust's first dorm appearance came at Morris­sey Hall. Anticipating, like everyone else, that Faust was 
The_Obseryer 

The Obeerver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday th10ugh Friday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Ob8erver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa111t Mary's College. Subscnplions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrrt111g The Obeerwr. P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. tndtana 46556 
The Obeerwr is a member of The Aeeocl.ted Preae. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
David Dziedzic 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Wednesda 

destined for greatness under the Dome, I tape-recorded the speech, which quickly turned into an impromptu pep rally. 
When asked what the most important job a football coach must do, Faust had a concise answer. Keeping the team on an even course, he said, is the most important thing a coach can do. A team won't be successful if it's psyched up for only a few teams on its schedule, he said. The object is not to get too high for the good teams and not too low for the poor teams. 
But now, in assessing the 

year. quickly 
ended each season. 
Not only have Faust teams been unable to rebound from disappointing losses, they have been unable to rebound from big wins. 
Obviously, something has been wrong with the Notre Dame football team for the past three seasons. Some people suggest an attitude problem. I disagree, but even if that argument is accepted, the finger still points at one man. Ifthe coach can't motivate the team, who can? 
However, don't look for Father Joyce to swallow his pride and ask Faust to resign ifthese problems continue. The image Faust portrays is everything that Notre Dame wants in a coach. To remove him from the job would be tantamount to admitting that winning is everything at Notre Dame. And as Father Hesburgh makes perfectly clear whenever he gets the chance, winning is not everything at Notre Dame. 
Or, at least, it's not supposed to be. 
problems of the past few seasons, one glaring fact shines through -·Faust teams have been incredibly inconsistent. 
In each of the three seasons, the Irish have posted highly impressive and enthusiastic victories in the opener, only to encoun­ter a myriad of problems thereafter. LSU in 1981, Michigan under the lights in 
1982, and Purdue in 1983 were all indicative of the wealth of talent the Irish possesed. Talk of a national championship was rampant each But it 
! Still Time To : : Join the Ballroom : : Dance Class : 
:Time· Wednesday, : : September 28, 6:30-8:00 PM :
•
:Place· Regina Hall Basement : Lounge on Saint Mary's 
• Campus 
• ••• ••• 
•
• Teacher-Ray Sexton from 
: Indianapolis :Cost· $20 for four weeks 
: THIS OFFER IS LIMITED •
•
• TO NOTRE DAME AND • : SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY. : 
Department Managers 
~~~~~~~=~~~~~~~~~= ~!!~~~~~~~ ..........Da~dDriedric 
/lox Q. NMrf' IJcum•.IN ·lo55(i (.! I'J) .!3'J· 5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ............... Daniel O'Hare 
/be Ohser1•er is rht· indt·pt·m.knr newspapn puhlisht"ll hv the students of the Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas n·rsll\' ol Notrt· l>anll' du l.ac and Saini Marv's Collegt•. It does nor necessarih· relkcr News Editor ................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen rht· polines of the administration of either inslirurion. Tht· nt·ws is reponed as al· News Editor . ............w•. 1. l'ytark Wo~~eh _ Composition Manager . ........ Suzau~~<: i..a Croix n•rardy and as ohjt'l'livdy as pos~hk. l insigned editorials rcpresenr the opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miollo majority ofthe f.dirorial !loa rd.< :ommenraries. ktters. and the lnsidt· Column prest"nl Features Editor . ............... Sarah HamihoA System Manager ............... Kevin Williams rht· \'Jt·ws olrhl"ir authors.< :olumn space is available to all members ofthe communirv. Photo Editor .................... Scoll Bower anclrhe lrn: exprt·ssion of ,·arvingopinions on campus. through tellers. is encouraged. .\ports Editor... ...\1ichad Sulli\'an 
Founded No\lember 3, 1966 
The Observer Wednesday, September 28, 1983-page 3 

Music By "Dewan" 
Author celebrates M* A *S*H era 
• Seniors • 
Applications for Senior Formal Committees may be picked up Monday, September 26 Through Wednesday, September 27 at LaFortune or SMC Student Activities 
Due 5:00 PM Monday, October 3 
Author David Reiss is inviting the Notre Dame community to hang out with Hawkeye, B.J., Radar and all of their favorite characters from the popular televi­sion series "M* A *S*H" tonight in the Library Auditorium. 
He will be discussing his best­selling book and providing a rare 
insight  into  behind-the-scenes  ac­ 
tion on the set of the program.  
Titled  "An  Evening  of  

M*A*S*H," the presentation will include a sound-slide show of the actors discussing their thoughts and feelings of the hit TV series. Also featured will be a blooper reel con­sisting of humorous blunders and mistakes made throughout the eleven-year history of the series. 
ND STUDENT ACTIVITY 
All Sophomores interested in 
FEE APPEALS 
Making the festival happen: 
Attend the general meeting for 
Thursday, September 30 is the deadline for 
the 
ND clubs and organizations for appealing the 
SOPHOMORE LITERARYFESTIVAL
May allocation decisions. All appeals must be in writing and addressed to the Director of Student Activities. The deadline is for appeals only. 
Requests for funds from new clubs or from 
Thursday, Sept. 29 at 7:00 
groups which did not apply in April will not be 
in Chautauqua Ballroom, 
accepted until January, 1984. 
2nd Floor LaFortune 
Headlighting -for soft golden highlights. Brighten, lighten, face framing hair. Go from dull to sunlit! This week only, $14 
R9GISVHAIRSTYLISTS 
University Park Mall 
Among other topics, Reiss will "An Evening of M*A*S*H" is discuss the close relationships sponsored by the Student Union between the actors, as well as the Academic Commission, and is part pranks and practical jokes that of a series of lectures and presenta­went on b~hind the scenes. tions which has a common theme 
Reikss, who became interested in of "transitions." The series will be M*A *S*H the first time he visited centralized around an analysis of the set, ended up spending two and change, and will examine ac­a half years with the cast. His in­celerated advances in scientific, timate account of the making of the political, economic, religious and series and how it was put together is cultural aspects of our society. featured in his book. 
Computer snooper caught 
Associated Press 
STILLWATER, Okla. -A student who raided a computer that operates a university message hoard and threatened to make it display "anything we please" was lured into a trap with the promise of more computer codes, authorities say. 
"I got pretty scared there," said Sean K. Riddle, 18, a freshman at Ok­lahoma State University who was ar­rested at a pay telephone in the lohhy of his dormitory. 
Riddle is accused of using his home computer to gain access to a computer and enter messages that could have wound up on a display at a husy Stillwater intersection. 
"You thought 'WarGames' was a movie, hut it is a reality," read one message. Another warned, "There:: is no way to catch us." 
Riddle, an electrical engineering major from Oklahoma City, was ar­rested in the lohhy of his dormitory Sept. 20, the day after school officials noticed the cryptic messages on their computer screens. 
He pleaded innocent to unlawful procurement of telecommunica­tions services and larceny of com­puter time, hoth misdemeanors, and was released on S500 hond pending an Oct. 26 preliminary hearing. 
********************************** 
* * 
* t Just in case you missed the first one, the Notre *t* Dame Progressive Musik Club will have * t its second meeting on Wed., Sept. 28 in the !* Architecture Auditorium at 7:30 sharp. All * t those interested should attend. t * Rebel * * * 
t * ** 
**********************************: 

HOWdo I know if the Lord is calling me to minister as a Brother? 
HOWdoes my being a Brother meet my need for prayer, community sharing and service? 
HOWdo I pray to discover God's call in my life? 
WHATare the various ministries of Holy Cross Brothers? 
H 0 W do Brothers respond to the needs of our day: commitment to Jesus in the poor, the oppressed, in areas of social justice? 
-------.~-----­
WHAT is the process for becoming a Brother? 
Contact: 
Br. David Baltrinic, C.S.C. 103 Colurr~a Hall Notre Dame, IN. 46556 
239-7830 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The 0 bserver 
Reagan says he would seek accord 
AsNOciated Press 
WASIIIN<iTON President Reagan said Tuesday he would ask for congressional approval of any substantial expansion in the role of 
U.S. troops in Lebanon and would seek agreement with Congress if he think~ they must stay for more than 
IH months. 
Reagan gave the assurances to anxious congressional leaders in a letter designed to calm fears that the adminiMr;ttion may not live up to its end of tht• compromise struck with Congress. 
Tl10~e fears were aroused when Secretary oft State <ieorgc P. Shultz refused to tell a congressional panel what the administration plans to do wirh the troops after 18 months. 
The compromise, which Reagan has said he will sign with reserva­tions, is scht·dulcd for a vote Wed­nesday or Thursday in the Senate. Majority Leader Howard II. Baker Jr., R-Tcnn., has predicted it will he ap­proved after a possible close vote on a move to reduce the 18-month period. 
It will tht·n move to the House, where tht· deeply divided Democratic majority met in closed session on the issue Tuesday with­out reaching agrecmt·nt. 
The: compromise recognizes that a timetable: for removal ofthe troops h;ts been triggert·d under provisions ofthc 197:~ War Powers Act because tht· troops arc in a hostile situation. In return li>r this, it authorizes the administration to keep the I,600 Marines at their peal·ckecping posts t<>r up to a year and a halt: 
... Planes 
continued from page 1 
other concessions later. 
But labor is adjustable and most 
airlines have taken steps to bring 
costs down. Continental's petition 
to seck court protection from 
creditors while it reorganizes under 
the Federal B;mkruptcy Act is the 
most radical, hut some analysts say it 
may not he the last airline to file t<>r 
hankrupl'ty protection to get out 
from under costly labor contracts. 
Arguments on whether the law 
em he stretched that far will he 
heard next month by the U.S. 
Supreme Court. 
Eastern Airlines, which lost $94.4 million in the first half of the year, has demanded that all its employees take a I '; percent pay cut or the airline may have to shut down, or file for h;lnkruptcy protection. 
Frank Borman, the Eastern chair­man, has frequently asked his employees for concessions. "Whether this is the time he means it or not, I don't know," said Patricia Fink, h:adt·r of the flight attendants' union, which has an Oct. 12 strike deadline. 
Other airlines have sought similar concessions, hut they have tended to result more from negotiations rather than ultimatum. 
At Western Airlines, for example, all of its five major unions have ap­proved a I 0 percent pay cut, along with a stock ownership and profit­sharing plan. 
Many ofthe new airlines, general­ly non-union operations, began with higher employee productivity from the start. 
When a People Express pilot is not flying, for instance, he may serve as dispatcher, work in marketing and recruiting, or handle some other ad­ministrative chore. 
$101 ~COUPON FOR TEN DOLLARS OFF 
~ WESTERN SKI JACKETS 
0 
WESTERN OR CAPEZIO BOOTS 
Wooden Indian Western Store 
~·50877 US 31 North 1 /2mile So. Mich. line~ ~~ 10-6 m-Tb 10-8 F-S V 

ONE SEMESTER FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAM IN MEXICO FOR JUNIORS 
Universidad lberoamericana Mexico City 
INFORMATION NIGHT Thurs., Sept. 29 7:30PM Center for Social Concerns 
-
Wednesday, September 28, 1983-page 4 
SENIORS!!! Please don't forget your Senior Portrait Appointments. 

Spots::;l~i~
call 239-5185 right away. 
Attention Juniors 
An organizational meeting will be held 
~~ 
Thursday, Sept. 29th at 6:00pm in LaFortune Little Theatre for all those interested in working on the Executive 
ittee for Junior Parent's Weekendr 

Wednesday, September 28, 1983-page 5
Showcase 
Miss Manners 
The well-mannered toddler 
by Judith Martin 
I)ersonally, Miss Manners has always believed that the purpose of r summertime leisure was to allow her to lie back against the cus­hions of the porch swing and ruminate, while everyone else ran about for their health, being sporty. 
In principle, she has nothing against the idea ofusing the time for self-improvement, ifonly she could think ofsomething to improve. Others may certainly do so, and children probably should. So you would think, given Miss Manners' crusading spirit when she begins to think, in the fall, that she would be pleased beyond measure to hear ofAmerican children having spent their summers attending eti­
quette camp. 
Indeed she was, at first. With all her heart, she believes that man­ners must be taught by parents to their children, 14 hours a day (nine hours for sleep, and no shouting instructions to them while they're in the bathroom) in order to be effective. But she has also noticed that there is a lot ofremedial work to be done, and is heartily grateful for all assistance in this noble effort. 
Imagine her horror, however, when she found out some ofthe 
things that were being taught at the etiquette camps. There was one story about 3-year-olds having been trained to kiss ladies' hands -tune to invest money in it. So in the song, "It's sick but I like it." The 
possibly the most extreme example ofbad manners ever per­byDanKopp fall of1982, with financial assistance group has yet to realize its goals of petrated upon an innocent child and his hapless victims. Hand kiss­from friends, the Osborns and their having the record played on The
guest columnist 
ing is not properly performed at all by Americans, by children or, band, John, Dan, and the Chicken David Letterman Show or The Dr. literally, by anyone -a mature European gentleman who has been 'vJhat do Midwestern cows and Wing Band. went to a studio in Buf­Demento Radio Show. brought up to do so may kiss the air above the hand ofa married lady W barbequed chicken wings falo to record a single. They incor­Osborn's performing credentials only, but anyone else who tries it is being pretentious and ridiculous. have in common? Both are the porated the project into The Serious include winning the 1981 An Tostal 
How many 3-year-olds, or 13-year-olds, in this country know how topics ofa new novelty record being Dude Music and Publishing Co. impersonation contest as a fresh-· 
to greet someone correctly by looking him or her in the eye, shaking sold in the bookstore. What makes For the flip side ofthe single, Os­man, regularly performing a stand­hands and saying clearly and pleasantly, "How do you do?" That is . the 45 record even more novel is the born composed "I'm a Cow." "I've up comedy act at the Nazz, and 
what one ought to learn at camp ifone is not learning to make gimp fact that both songs were composed always loved the awkward grace of acting in several plays on campus. 
lanyards. and sung by Notre Dame senior Dan the bovine," says Osborn. '"The Cow Though he is an English major, Os­
Otherchildren were being taught to order food in French, take af­Osborn. Song' deals with the classic theme of born is not concerned about the ap­ternoon tea and refrain from drinking the water in finger bowls. Itwas five years ago that Dan and man versus nature -a theme which parent inanity oflyrics like: These are all useful skills. May Miss Manners assume that they were his older brother,John, natives of manifests itself in the art ofcow­I'm a cow; 
already proficient in eating chicken, chewing with their mouths Buffalo, New York, decided to write tipping." Osborn says he ap­See me run. 
closed and generally making themselves pleasant during family din­a song about one of Buffalo's culi­proached the song with a '60s Here in my pasture ner -remembering to refrain from announcing all their food nary specialties-barbequed chick­arrangement in mind. "IfJim Mor­I'm having fun. 
dislikes? en wings. What they came up with rison were a Hoosier I think he "That song is truly sublime," There was a refresher course in how to ride in a limousine, which, sounds sort oflike a parody ofthe would have written 'The Cow Osborn asserts. "You need to search in Miss Manners' experience, is one ofthe least difficult oflife's trials. SO's hit, "Teen Angel." Osborn says Song,"' Osborn speculates. for the meaning." 

Riding on a public bus so that nobody's feelings or shins are bruised ofhis and his brother's song (which, After the record was released last And those who want a copy ofthe seems to be one ofthe most difficult. fittingly enough, is entitled "The winter "The Chicken Wing Song" record need to search no further 
What upsets Miss Manners profoundly, presuming that a person Chicken Wing Song"): "It involves a received air play on New York radio than the jewelry counter ofthe whose biggest burst ofenergy is toward the lemonade can be said to woman choking to death. And you stations and Buffalo's NBC affiliate bookstore. be profound, is that all this perpetuates the public idea that manners can dance to it, too." WGRZ did a story on the band. Buf­'Dan Kopp is a senior from Ander­are a series ofsnobbish gestures that the rich, or those who wish to The Osborn brothers' friends falo disc jockey Danny Nevereath of son, IN. He is double majoring pass for rich, use to intimidate the poor. were impressed enough with the _ WKB~,_!<hile on thc:_~_i!i s~d ofthe in English andPhilosophy. 
Miss Manners has met few children in her life whose most urgent need is to be taught to properly manipulate the symbols ofluxury. records Properly brought up children learn such things ifand when they are appropriate to their lives. The child whose family has a limousine is 
The ballet takes a new turn
routinely taught -ifhe is taught any manners at all, and the rich are far from setting a good example on that score -to treat it and the album stickers. driver with consideration. 
Nonetheless, "Lifeline," "True"
by Bob Vonderheide 
And improperly brought up children, ofwhatever income level, and the othersix songs on the albumwill not be served by lessons that compound their basic bad manners features staffwriter prove that Spandau hasn't forgottenwith snobbery. Please, not another band from Perhaps. But while it's tempting to what the word melody means. Gary
England. write off Spandau as trendy, the 
Kemp, the band's only member with music really isn't. For instance, there
DearMiss Manners, 
formal music training, writes justSpandau Ballet, one more new­
I am an attorney working for an agency ofthe federal government. isn't the incessant rat-a-tat-tat ofan what Tony Hadley sings best. And 
wave band from London looking for electric drum that's so irritating in
I share an office with another attorney. Often, we keep our door shut while his golly-gee lyrics would
American dollars, came waltzing
in order to concentrate. The problem is with my boss. He insists on the music ofsuch English bands as probably sound better on Bill Cosby
over U.S. air waves and into record 
knocking at our office door and then walks right in without waiting Heaven 17. And there isn't the con­Jell-0 pudding commercials, the
stores this summer with its third al­stant click track that carries every
for an answer. Don't you think his behavior is rude? And what can we music is still rich. 
bum, "True."
do about it? cut of Men at Work's "Bu.>iness as That's not to say we haven't heard Spandau had been playing in the Usual" album. (Australian, ofcourse, any ofthis before. There's the very
Gentle Reader, 
back alleys of London nightclubs, but they'd like to be English.) 
noticeable influence of Roxy Music Well, you could lock the door and shout, "No, no, wait a minute, 
and the band seemed content just to Spandau Ballet's sound is fresh 
here, not to mention extensivewe're busy in here," every time he knocks. That shouldn't be too "look good" in some Duran Duran and crisp. The music relies on an in­borrowings from Haircut Onemany more times. 
costumes. fectious rumba beat, pushed for­
Hundred, an English band thatMiss Manners is sorry to disagree with you, but bosses do have ward mainly by percussionist Steve
But then came a concert clip recorded probably some ofthe best
walk-in privileges during working hours. The fact that he knocks on Norman and reinforced by the funk
produced for MTV, a contract with new sounds of 1982. Haircut, sincethe door at all is a courtesy, not to be interpreted as anything more 
guitar playing ofcomposer Gary
than a formality. Chrysalis records guaranteeing disbanded, is a superior recording
Kemp. Bassist Martin Kemp, Gary's 
American distribution, and -God band, but Haircut's funk sound still 
DearMiss Manners, brother, actually carries the beat
forbid -a song in the Top 40. lives on in Spandau's work. My mother, sister-in-law and I have decided to change hairdres­which, though less driving than the 
But the best thing about SpandauEgotistical new wave snobs said 
sers after about 10 years for me and my mother, and approximately breakneck pace ofgroups like New is what it's not. It's not overdone,
the group had sold out when the
four years for my sister-in-law. We are now going to the same new Order or Madness, is always overcooked and overpriced likesong "True" was released in
hairdresser. I still patronize my old beautician by letting her do my danceable. 
Journey orStyx. And it's not a bunchAmerica, and rejected Spandau as
daughter's hair. How should we explain to her that we have decided After all, this band is out to have 
oftechno pop like Men Withoutjust another band more into fashion
to change hairdressers? fun, and it shouldn't be too long Hats.
than music. 
before the song "lifeline" shows up
Gentle Reader, 
Spandau is pumped up jazz music 
on party tapes. "Ufeline" is, in fact,
She already knows. sitting incognito in the new-wave 
the best cut on the album. And it's
You have not explained to Miss Manners why all ofyou made this sections ofrecord stores. "True" is 
unfortunate that "True," an un­
change, but she can think ofno reason that would console the for­selling fast in London and New York,characteristic soft-pedalled melody
mer hairdresser. Fortunately, there is no need to offer any explana­and last week, I think I even saw a that sounds nearly as good when
tion at ail, although Miss Manners appreciates the quaverings of copy ofit in the Notre Dame 
played at 45 rpm, was released first.
loyalty that prompted you to think so. She has heard ofpeople Bookstore, carefully nestled be­
"True" quietly ends the second
leaving their spouses with fewer qualms. tween a S2.99 special on Foghat Al­
side ofthe album, and its release is a bums. 
mystery. Producer Tony Swain and
judith Martin's "Miss Manners' Guide to Excruciatingly Correct I don't know ifEngland wants to 
Steve Jolley apparently thought
Behavior" (Atheneum) is now available for etiquette emergency hear about that. 
"Lifeline" would be a "big hit," as
consultation. . _ -· 1 . 
"Hungry Like a Wolf' was for Duran Bob Vonderheide is a junior from
Feeling incorrect? Address your etiquette questions (in black or Duran. The group recorded an Lexington, KY. Bob is majoring 
blue-black ink on white writingpaper) to Miss Manners, in care of this newspaper. extended-play club mix, and in chemical engineering and is a 
Chrysalis plugged "Lifeline" on
(c) 1983, United Feature Syndtcate,lnc. News Editor ofThe Observer. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 28, 1983-page 6 
• • • Club 
219/277-109~ 
Airport Limo I 
Roseland C11b. Co. any size group I to anywhere 
rhe Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. lo 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classffied ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per
Classifieds 
seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES  LOST! one gold Anes medal w~h d1amond slud. Please conlacl Tim al8842 IST. Ed's, 308).  SONY TA-AX5 AMP. 65 WATTS/CHNL 234-8029  HELP A RICH friend is in desperate need oftwo  Need 1 USC lickel. pay lop dollar. Call Tracy al277-7232.  ATTENTION all males who have been dy1ng lo kiSS MELISSA WE!S.Ihls IS your chance. Today is her 22nd birhlday.  
Typtng, All KINDS. 277-8534 aher 5·30 M-F. All day wknds.  LOST BLUE GORTEX REWARD JOHN 234-8493  RAINCOAT  CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS  CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS  PriTSBURGH GA's. Please help an old friend out of a jam by calling Sari at 277­1326. You will be richly rewarded. , NEED USC. GA AND STUD TIX CALL  PERSONALS  Come to 449 PW and make your dreams come true. THE "'BRING BACK DAN DEVINE" CLUB IS NOW BEING FORMED. CALL  
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287·4082. STUDY IN MEXICO FOR ONE SEMES­TER. lnlorrna11on N1ghl lor !hose in­terested 1n study1ng one semester 1n Junior year at Umv. lberamencana. Thurs.. Sepl. 29, 7 30 pm, Cenler lor So­Cial Concernn.  FOR RENT FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO 2773604  NO  Riders Needed lo U of Iowa, Iowa Cily Wkd, 9/30-10/2Call Jeff al NO. 8417 .................... RIDE NEEDED TO PURDUE OR SURROUNDING AREA FOR WEEKEND OF 9-30-83 PLEASE HELP! WILL SHARE COSTS II CALL NO, 2976  JOHN 1852 HEY DUDES I HAVE 2 PITT GA'S THAT I AM WILLING TO TRADE FOR 2 USC GA'S, I AM ALSO LOOKING FOR 1 MORE USC GA. IF INTERESTED CALL BRIANAT1165 NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC AND/OR  IF YOU HAVE OR HAVE NOT REGis­TERED FOR THE DRAFT, HAVE QUEs­TIONS ABOUT CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION, DEFERMENTS, EXEMP­TIONS, THE CHURCH'S POSITION ON BEARING ARMS...CONTACT MAR­GARET GARVEY, CAMPUS MINISTRY, BADIN HALL (23&-5242) FOR DRAFT AND MILITARY COUNSELLING.  FOR DETAILS!!! WHAT'S 4FT. A TRIBAL LEADER AND DATES A HOOVER? CLUE OH CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS MMMMMMMM! HOWARD HALL presenls WEDNESDAY NIGHT  
HEY O.C.STUDENTS,need a beautiful, lovable, grey, free ktUen?IF yes caii-234­95801Tom) FIVE FOOT TWO & TALLER. SIZE 9 & SMALLER. OPPORTUNITY TO MODEL FOR PROFESSIONAL HAIR FASHION SHOW ON OCT 2 & 3. PRELIMINARY INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, SEPT 30, AT MARRIOTT HOTEL, 7 P.M. ASK FOR LAMAUR. Expenenced Typ1s1 w111 do !yp1ng. Reasonable rales. Call287-5182. CHEESE STEAK CHEESESTEAK CHEESE STEAK LOST BLACK CANON SNAPPY 20 CAMERA AT GREEN FIELD ON SAT., SEPT.I7. REWARD CALL CYNTHIA AT 234-9456. LOST: GOLF UMBRELLA. BLACK & R TED WITH RED HANDLE. WAS IN BLACK COVER WHICH SAID IN WHITE LETTERS '"FIBERGLASS SHAFT". CALL ANDY 1578. FOUND BEADED GOLD NECKLACE, 9120 ON SOUTH QUAD. CALL 8584. FOUND Lady's wnsfwatch 10 VICtmly of Bookslore, Call 6264 & 1denl1fy  WANTED Need three sen1ors to do 1n-home solar sales. Any sales expenence helpful. One or lwo appts. per even1ng, 5 days week or less, posstbly Sal. or Sun. Very possible lo earn 1n excess of $700 per week wilh IUSIIwo sales. Call Rick al232-1800. Needed Rehearsal Accompamsl for FID­DLER ON THE ROOF. Conlacl linda Carvalho al284-5311 or Mary Stevens al 239-7757, NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO COLUMBUS, OH THIS WEEKEND CALL STEVE 1516 GUITARISTS AND MALE SINGERS FOR WALSH SUNDAY MASS. PRACTICE THURS. AT 4·30. INFO CALL ANNE AT8158 WANTED Head Foolball Coach Apply al lheOome RIDE NEEDEO,U OF !ICHAMPA!N), LEAVE 9/30 RETURN 10/2. WILL SHARE COSTS. KEN 3485 WANTED Need SYR dale lor my roommate. Girls with expenence preferred. Also blond and blue-eyed. Phone 3174 for interview.  NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO COLUMBUS, OHIO EITHER THIS WEEKEND OR NEXT CALL FITZ AT 234-5357 nde needed aher Oclober break from LAWRENCE, KANSAS or KANSAS CITY, MO. call BOB al3264 ····························· NEED RIDERS TO CLEVELAND-­SPECIF, JOHN CARROLL U. AREA 9/30 TO 10/2.CALL WILL AT 234-4511 TICKETS ................ Desperalely need Penn Slate game lick­els. Call Bnan at 8795. .............................. HELPI NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309 NEED 2 G.A. TICKETS FOR EITHER U.S.C. OR PITT GAME CALL LAURA 284-4367 ........................... HELP I NEED USC T!X CALL MARY 2845084 WANTED TWO OR FOUR TICKETS FOR USC. CALL CHRIS 8739 Willing lo lrade 5 !FIVE) PITT lickels for ONLY 4 (FOUR) USC ltckels. Call NO. 1723 Ask for Kev.  PITT OR AIR FORCE. CALL JIM AT 1501 Need 4 GA tickets lor USC Game. Pleaoe call OD at 277-5214. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR USC GA'S! CALL277-1326. ······················· NEED 4 NAVY GA's, CALL STEVE AT 8079. NEED 4 TICKETS FOR NAVY.CALL TOM AT 1201 HELP!! NEED 2 USC GA'S OR 3 PITT GA'SI PLEASE CALL JIM AT 8736. Need IMMEOIATELY 2-4 GA's for Any Home Game Call Pale 1224 Must trade PITT GAs for USC GAs JEFF 6756 Need Non-sludenllickels lo NO vs USC, Call collect (312) 565·5959 x2013 or x2233. ...................... HAVE PITT TIX NEED PENN ST TIX CALL 1796 ................................... .......... NEED PITT TIX, STUD'S OR GA'S CALL 1796 Need NAVY GA's x1695 Need 2 USC GA's and 1 sludenllickel!ll Call Don at 286-7273.  CHEESESTEAKSIII FREE PEPSI FREE Desperale isn'l lhe word, I NEED, really DELIVERY FREE PEPSI FREE NEED a hckello lhe PITT game. I'm nol DELIVERY CALL 8200 lo order CALL particular, I'll lake a sludenl or GA. 8200 9·00-11 30 PM Please, call1311 and offer to sell me your lickel. Will pay big bucks. WHEN I SAY CHEESE, YOU SAY STEAK! CHEESE STEAK CHEESES­GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT! ORDER TEAK CHEESESTEAK CHEESESTEAK A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMI YELLOW SUBMARINE!! WE NOW DELIVER MON-SAT 9-12pm CALL 272­Karen H.· You look greal in a robe. I'd like 4453 lo see more. Or less depending on how you wantlo lake il. C's BB I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. WILLING TO TRADE TICK­YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA'S. YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL CALL JERRY AFTER 8 AT x1783. YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHl YUHL YUHL NEEDED· Rehearsal Accompanisl for YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL FIDDLER ON THE ROOF. Conlact Linda YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL Carvalho at 284-5311 or Mary Slevens al YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL YUHL 239-7757. YUHL YUHL YUHL .................... Are you going home early for Oclober PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACK­break? L.A. Gal needs FOUR G.A.'a lo ERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE see NO beal USC. Will pay MUCHO S PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS plus lake you lo DINNER. Call Michelle PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACK· 284-4138 ERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERSThank you St Jude for prayers PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACK·answered-OJ ERS PE PACKERS OH,GOD OH,GOD ANNE AND MARY--Orgo Orgo Orgo OH,GOD Orgo Orgo DEAD!!! Thursday, Sepl. 29 Carroll Hall SMC DON--Baclena Amoeba Slreplococc1 $1 admiSSIOn Protozoas Nucleus Protoplasm MicrobiOl­c~;;;~ i~ si~~~~~-i<~~~~~ oPEN Housi; · ogy DEAD!!! EAT, DRINK, BE MERRY and prepar• 1tJr your fulure. Thursday 6· 7·30 pm al1717 SENIORS!!! Sludy Break 10·30  
FOUND One grey umbrella and one grey plaid wool cap, on Thursday mghl 1n LaFortune. They are wa111ng for you at Ihe lost and Found 1n lhe AdmtmslraiiOn BU1Id1ng. LOST, GOLD BRACELET ON fJ/25 IN LIRARY PERIODICAL ROOM OR FROM LIBRARY TO BREEN-PHILLIPS. SEN­ .fOR SALE GUITAR 12-slnng acoust1c. S175 -Gary 232-0550 COMPUTER Almost New COMMOOOR  USC-NO lix wanted. Pay~ng mosl. (312) 246-4650. ················································ MUST HAVE USC TIX--MONEY NO OBJECT--NEED UP TO SIX GAS. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME  NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR "GOOD Ol' DAD" I Please call DAVE al8919 Parents have never seen an NO home _game. Need four Navy GA's. Kalhleen x8016. Thanks. NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL JACK AT 277­5408  ~?.S.end_A~~:........... ... ........................ _ TONIGHT Lafortune Ballroom Be There! I We're bowlbound" CORNHUSKER~; t 1~ ii,~ :;;;id _;;~~~J~H~~ 4ii, fl~~; ~~ h~ly FANCLUB OF NOTRE DAME slay luned cross· lei's gellogelher and see whal Wild ····:··.~····· ····· ..............n~."·) t1mes we can have~e ··men'' of notre hi shols dame.-lhe wild women of 3rd floor holy J&S&M Gel a clue,tt was cheap bul no cross. lhriii!We were up for rt lhe morning aher but you weren't, but we know how messy JOOY AND CHERYL, REALLY those acronyms can be. Too much LOOKING FORWARD TO SAT.  
TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE MARYBETH AT 1277 IF FOUND.  CALL  64 w/ Cass. $175 or besl offer. Call Fred 1145  NEED USC GA'S NOW--CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279  NEED 3 TIX FOR NAVY. CALL ED AF­TER 6 P.M. AT 277-8111.  wine.loo many lines,John isn'l lhe only one mak1ng des1gns! Chen & her smart roommates  NIGHT!IIIIIII GUARENTEEDIII! SCREWDRIVER MEN  SATISFACTION -THE  

continued from page 8 
terested; badges and certificates for achieving stated levels of exercise; fitness testing programs; and a newsletter to inform members of related activities at Notre Dame and in the Michiana area. 
To sign-up for the newsletter, one only needs to come to Century Club's first meeting tomorrow, September 29, at 5:15 p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium or call NVA at 239-6100. 
Today 
volleyball vs. Wisconsin-Mil. ?p.m. ACC Pit 
SMC tennis vs. Taylor 3:15p.m. 
r~~~~~~~._ 
' 
t t 
: t ::~~~c:::~: :i~~~ lt 
t  are now being  t  
t  accepted. Dead- t  
t  line for applications  
t  is this Friday. For  f  
t  more details call Mike  :  
tt  at 239-5323. ________  tj  


at Century Center 
DOUGLAS NIEDT Classical Guitarrist m Bach! Villalobos! To Gershwin! watch detdils 
$$ WANTED $$ USCvs.ND OOTBALL TICKET (21~) 481-7079 
-·!Ill••••••~---~clip & save•-•••••••••••••t the 
DELI 
1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN 
PARTY SUBS 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses & Choice of Toppings 
3  feet  serves  20·25...$30.00  I  
4  feet  serves  25-30...$37.50  
5  feet  serves  30-35...$45.00  
6  feet  serves  35-40...$50.00  
I  

ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS &SALADS 
255-7797 f 
I I 
Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance 
I 
I
Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 'I Jeff Etoll, owner, ND '78 I I 
I 
-·.--•-•••••••-clip & save-•••••-•••••J 

']I['~~C3L~----------------------------------------~•e•d•n•e•s•d•a-y,_s_e_p.te_m
__b_e_r_2_s_,_1_9__
83--·p•a•g•e--7 
Bloom County 
:euP~ YOO HAV£ RE/1CiiEI7 
AV~T, Yl XVRVY 
BtU-m.£PH0Nf/5 W510M£f<­ACWUNT F/1..£. f.NTRY 15 57f/JC7l..Y 
PR00/13/ml WITHOI!T /NCRI3VI£31...Y 
COMPI£)( ~URJ1Y-Aa£55 COfJ£. 
I 


Fate 
HEY, THAT'S A KO.L 

WHEIU 'p YOU. Ctfl NICE SHtRT YOU '1(£ W[AIUN([. 

SHMEN 
Daily Crossword 


OH, A Ftt£ND liAV( IT TO ME. 

Berke Breathed 



Campus ." · 
•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, SPSSx for SPSS Users, 115 Computing Center 

•3:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "Enhanced Oil Recovery­Transport Phenomena and Optimal Control," Prof 

W. 
Fred Ramirez, University of Colorado, Sponsored by 256 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Colloquium, "A Technical Word Processor For Personal Computers," Prof. James Milgram, Stanford University, 115 CCMB 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Charlie is My Darling," and "Stones in the Park," LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by Undergraduate Club 

•7 
and 9:20 p.m. -Shakeseare Film Series, "King Henry V," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by College ofArts and Letters 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "An Introduction to Natural Family Planning," Mr. and Mrs. Tim Fulnecky, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation/Reception, for ME, MEIO, and CHE seniors, Alumni Room, Morris Inn 

•7:15 
p.m. -Meeting and Talk, Patricia Fin­negan on Microcomputers, also movie: "Fly High, Fly Proud A Career in Sales," 303 Haggar College Center, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Collegiate Chapter ofAmerican Marketing Association 

•7:30 
p.m. -Presentation/Reception, for CAPP Seniors, Alumni Room, Morris Inn 

•7:30 
p.m. -Pax Christi General Meeting, 124 Center for Social Concerns 

•9 
p.m.-Coffee house/entertainment, Coffee House Opening Night, Haggar College Center, Sponsored by SMC Student Government, Free 


TV Tonight~ 
7p.m. 16 Real People 22 Special Movie Presentation: 
"Dempsey" 28 The Fall Guy 34 AmericanJourney 
8p.m. 16 Facts of Life 
28 Dynasty 8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 9p.m. 16 Live and in Person 
28 Hotel 10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
-
0
Far Side 

Beware the elephant in tall grass 
LOVERBOY L01TERY 
Thursday, Sept. 29, Nazz--3:00 CONCERT: October 29 All Seats $11.50 
You must bring money to lottery to purchase tickets 
nettuub.... , 
• KANSAS CONCERT NOV. 3 • LOTfERY OCT. 6 
S11.50 I $10.50 

ACROSS 
1 Precise degree 5 Mowgll 
country 10-pro quo 14 European 
capital 15 Pitcher's stand 16 Hindustani 
language 17 Sash 18 Foolish 20 Simpleton 21 Prop 22 Wipeout 23 Oriental 25 Disagree· 
ably moist 27 Scholar 29 FDRchat 
milieu 33 Frenzied 34 Balance 36 Filmdom's 
Chaney 
37 Song in "WestSide Story" 
39 Samovar 40 Bakery fare 42 Dined 43 Passing 
fads 46 Biblical 
pronoun 47 Deride 49 Attain 
adulthood 51 Ledge near a slope 
Tuesday's Solution 
52 Gomorrah's 
twin city 53 Encore 56 Ariz. river 57 Frequently 60 Unfortunate 63 Woody's son 64 Italian 
actress 65 Jostle 66 Gonerll's 
father 67 Otisof 
baseball 68 Manorwlll 69 Tense 
DOWN 1 Vagrant 2 Confused 3 Disagree· 
able 4 Nonsense 5 Copy 6 "The Man 
Without a Country" 7 Appropri· 
ately 8 -jiffy 9 Augment 
10 ldiosyn· 
crasies 11 Sky bear 12 Bad day for 
Caesar 13 Fop 19 Protective 
overlay 
21 ~!lsgres· 
SIOn 
24 Japanese drink: var. 25 Actress Keaton 26 Museum offering 27 Philippine island 28 Prestigious 
violin 29 Gorse 30 Grumpy 31·Pain 32 Follow 35 Uneasiness 38 Stress 41 Preminger 44 Capek play 45 Bum 
inwardly 48 Wading birds 50 Nabokov 
title 52 Filter 53 Verdi 
masterpiece 54 Moody 55 Similarly 56 Burgeon 58 Pennant 59 Conserva· 
tive 61 Viper 62 Greek 
letter 63 Puborder 

IE RIG IS  R E1 NfE1,!• E NA B lE FLY I NIG 8 0 AT  
AIS HE  10M A Rti.l! I R A  
MlEITIS  R A NIELE. E LA L  

r---------------------------------------------~--~~-------­

Michigan State, is out for the season. The junior that he broke last year against Purdue. See story fullback suffered a fracture in the same ankle belowfor more details. 
Bell is out for remainder of season 
The playing days of junior Greg Bell could be over. The Irish fullback fractured his ankle in last Saturday night's loss to Miami, and he will be out for the season. 
"I feel really bad for Greg," said Irish coach Gerry Faust. "After everything that has happened to him, you just have to feel for him." 
Bell broke his right ankle last season against Purdue sidelining him for the rest of the campaign. This year's injury is a cracked bone just below the 1982 break. 
Bell sustained the injury just before the end of the first half, though he did see action in the se­cond half returning kicks. He end­ed the game with only four yards on four carries against the Hur­ricanes. 
The severity of the injury was not discovered until after extensive x­rays were done on Monday. 
In other games this season, Bell racked up four touchdowns against Purdue and then added 114 yards to the loss to Michigan State. 
An economics major in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, Bell could opt to graduate this May. He has a year of eligibility left after being red-shirted last year. 
The 6-0, 210-pound Columbus, Ohio native was the fastest member of the Notre Dame team. He was clocked at 4.4 in the 40-yard dash. 
The loss of Bell means two things to the Irish backfield. First, sophomore Allen Pinkett who previously shared playing time with Bell will bear the b runt of the rushing responsibilities. And two, freshmen Hiawatha Fransisco and Byron abraham will compete for the No. 2 spot. 
Non-varsity office introduces new Century Club for physical fitness 
By JEFF BLUMB 
Sports Writer 
Under the theme "Fitness for everyone," Non-Varsity Athletics has created a new organization devoted to the promotion of health, fitness, and personal exercise pro­grams. This organization, known as Century Club, provides informa­tion, support, and encouragement to all persons in the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's community who wish to have their own personal exercise program. 
"We are trying to encourage health and fitness," says Sally Derengowski, Coordinator of Recreational Services. "But we are also trying to provide for those who already exercise and to encourage those who are not." 
One aspect of Century Club will be to help those persons who have exercised infrequently or not a! all in the past, and sho would now like to set up a personal exercise pro­gram with no commitment involv­ed. 
"We call it a club, but it is really closer to a service," says Derengowski. "We are trying to create a club low on committment and high on resources," she con­tinued. "There will only be as much structure as you like." 
Century Club is also for those people who would like to add a bit more organization and structure to their present individual exercise programs. 
"The club can be a complement to one's own individual program," says Derengowski, "because we have a lot of information and resources to help you run a better exercise program. Eventually we hope to have a resource center of fitness literature. 
"By providing log cards and keeping a progress chart in the fieldhouse we hope to add organization," said Derengowski. 
But Century Club entails more than log cards and progress charts. 
In addition, the club offers maps showing routes and distances for jogging and bicycling; performance sheets to record daily workouts; group workout times for interested persons; t-shirts for those in-
see CLUB, page 6 
Notre Dame drops from AP poll 
Associated Press 
The last team to win a national championship after bdng ranked No. I every week ofthe season in the Associpted Press poll was Army in 1945. Now, Nebraska is taking aim at that distinction. 
R:mked No. I for four straight weeks, including preseason, the Cornhuskers received unanimous acclaim as the country's top college football team in the latest AP poll, released yesterday. 
The Huskers received all 60 first­place ballots from a nationwide panel ofsports writers and broadcas­made some adjustments. Offensive­
ters for a perfect score of 1,200. The ly, the main difference was being last unanimous choice for No. 1 ap­able to hang onto the football." parently was Southern Cal, which Texas received all but two of the won the 1972 national champion-1 second-place votes after beating ship by claiming all first-place votes. North Texas State 26-6 and 
Nebraska's latest victim was remained in second place. It's other 
UCLA. After trailing 10-0 in the two votes were for third place, second quarter, Nebraska won 42-giving the Longhorns I, 138 points. 10, giving Coach Tom Osborne Arizona was third, Iowa was 
some reason to doubt his team's fourth and North Carolina was fifth. ability to match the Army feat. Southern Cal, Notre Dame, Pitts­"I was concerned, certainly, about burgh and Boston College, the quality of play in the first quar­meanwhile, fell out of the Top ter," he said. "Our defensive coaches Twenty. 
Wednesday, September 28, 1983-page 8 
Can the Irish stand up to the Buffaloes? 

Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
This week Notre Dame takes the advice of Horace Greeley to "Go West" and take on the Colorado Buffaloes in Boulder. Originally, this game was looked at as a cakewalk for Notre Dame by many experts, but now that the Irish have lost five of their last six outings the viewpoint has changed dramatically. Gerry Faust and the Irish must regroup and retain their own confidence, as well as the confidence of the student body. It won't be an easy task, as the Buffaloes are 2-1 and would like to stampede the Irish before the home folks. 
Rocky Mountain Lows ... Ifyou think the Irish have had things bad during the last few years, you won't get any sympathy from Colorado fans. In 1979, Colorade made Chuck Fairbanks one of the highest paid coaches in college football in hopes he would turn the program around. Chuck coached more like Douglas Fair­banks, guiding the Buffaloes to a 7-26 record in three years. Exit Chuck Fairbanks, and enter Bill McCartney, former defensive assistant at Michigan. McCartney led the Buffaloes to a dismal 2­8 record a year ago, but has already equaled that victory total this season. Unfortunately, Colorado has Nebraska and Oklahoma in their conference, which means the only way the Buffaloes will be at the top of the Big Eight is if they list the teams alphabetically. 
A Word About Astroturf ... Since this is the first of three con­secutive games the Irish will play on Astroturf, it seems a good time to make a few comments about this surface. It seems strange a state as renowned for its natural beauty as Colorado would have a stadium with a synthetic surface. Be that as it may, you won't hear any complaints from Notre Dame. The Irish have had great success on Astroturf, losing only twice since 1978 in stadiums with carpet. In fact, some of the greatest Notre Dame wins in recent years ('78 Cotton Bowl, '80 vs. Alabama, '82 vs. Pitt) have come on Astroturf. 
In the Buffs ...For the fourth week in a row, the Irish will face a team that likes to move the ball through the air. Junior quarter­back Steve Vogel has improved his consistency this season, com­pleting 37 of 67 passes this season. He has three fine receivers in tight end Dave Hestera, split and Loy Alexander, and wingback Ron Brown, who had a big day in last week's 38-17 win over Oregon State. 
On the ground, the Buffaloes look to either junior fullback Lee Rouson or sophomore halfback Chris McLemore. Both backs have already had 100-yard games this year, and both backs love to dish out punishment. 
On defense, the Buffs sport an outstanding secondary, spearheaded by All-American cornerback Victor Scott. Scott is rated highly by pro scouts, and is a sure bet to go quickly in the draft. He is supported by two fine inside linebackers, Barry Rem­ington (38 tackles) and Terry Irvin (44 stops). The weak spot in the Colorado defense is the front line, where the Buffaloes are inex­perienced. So ... 
Guess What the Irish Will Do? ... Somewhere Woody Hayes is smiling broadly. Notre Dame has brought "three yards and a cloud of dust" back to college football. Allen !Pinkett should run a marathon against Colorado, but with Greg Bell out for the year with an ankle injury, fullbacks Chris Smith and Mark Brooks will have to pick up the slack. Blair Kiel will get the starting nod at quarterback, despite an impressive performance by freshman signal-caller Steve Beuerlein last week against Miami. Kiel will have to shoulder the responsibility of getting the Irish passing game back on track. Another problem for the Irish has been penalties--25 in three contests is way too many. 
It may sound like a recording, but would someone please wake up the pass defense. Bernie Kosar is still waiting to see an Irish lineman, and the secondary has seen more passes that a USC cheerleader. A shoulder injury to Joe Johnson does not help mat­ters. The situation must improve by Saturday or Vogel will have a field day. 
Buffalo Chips ... Former Notre Dame All-American Gerry DiNardo is now an assistant coach with Colorado ... Last week was the first time the Buffs posted back-to-back wins since 1979 ... This is the first meeting between the Irish and Colorado ... Add Milt Jackson to the injury list. The Fairfield, Iowa sophomore was seen hobbling with a heavily bandaged leg yesterday. 
0 
Pick of the Week ... After getting off tQ a 2-0 start, one can't deny the Irish cross country team of Coach Joe Piane is worthy of being this week's "Pick of the Week". The Irish harriers will try to capture the title in the National Catholic Invitational at beautiful Burke Memorial Golf Course this Friday at 4:00p.m. 
The Irish have finished second to Marquette for the last three years but this looks like the year Piane's runners may dethrone the Warriors. A solid starting five, led by co-captains Tim Cannon and Andy Dillon have been impressive in dual meet wins over Ohio State and Northwestern. With the return of freshman phenom Mike Collins from a leg injury, the Irish will be at full strength and raring to go. 
