

Oscars-
VOL XVJJ, NO 128 the mdepnldt.:nt .,twknt m."l'l.,papn 'en mg notn: .Janw anu ...unt rn.tr~ ·., I-IUD\1 ..\PRI!. H, 19tH 
others "DMZ" areas. from the South hit Chicago during 
Vrdolyak described the racial 
"Chicago may well be the most World War I. Most settled on the issues that have arisen since the segregated large city in the nation," south side, where Chicago's first nominations of Washington, a black, says James Compton, head of the black neighborhood developed and Republican Bernard Epton, a Chicago's Urban League. block by block. white. "What makes this race dif­
Most blacks -who comprise 40 Sixty-five thousand blacks came ferent is race. Maybe five percent of percent of the population -live to Chicago between 1916 and 1918, all voters are looking at issues; 98 to among other blacks. Their children and tensions grew, erupting on July 99 percent ofblacks will be support­go to school with other black 27, 1919, when Eugene Williams ing Washington and 83 to 85 per­children. drifted into the wrong part of the cent of whites will go for Epton. If 
"There's no southern state where 29th Street beach. people say there's no prejudice in kids grow up as isolated as they do in A governor's commission that Chicago, they're not telling the Chicago," says Gary Orfield, a Uni­studied the ensuing riot and its truth." versity of Chicago political science causes was the first to document the "Ifyou change the label ofthe can­
professor. "A typical (Chicago) degree to which blacks had been ex­didates, making Washington a black child is close to growing up in cluded from the mainstream of Republican, and Epton a Democrat, apartheid." Chicago life. you still wouldn't have changed a But in isolation, the black com­Jobs were hard to tlnd, with a single vote," Vrdolyak said. 
munity has tlourished in Chicago. It 1910 study showing 4 5 percent of Speaking before a criminal justice is a center of black culture and working black men holding jobs as class, Vrdolyak said, "This race will politics, base for the empire of porters, servants, waiters and be decided by turnout. Ifthe turnout Ebony magazine publisher John H. janitors. is larger than 1.2 million, we (the 
Johnson and the Rev. JesseJackson's In the 1920s, the Chicago Real Washingcon camp) will have Operation Pl'SH. Estate Board set a policy of not sell­problems. Any larger turnout will 
"In many \Vays Chicago has the ing to blacks unless the property was mean more problems." Political pol­strongest and most distinguished in a black neighborhood, says Don lsters have predicted that a large tur­black community," says john Rose, political strategist and a tor­nout, prompted by good weather, \kDermott, publisher of the mer aide to Martin Luther KingJr. would favor Epton. newslettn, The Chicago Reporter. A second wave of black migration Vrdolyak cited several problems 

The Observer/john Wachter 
Thien Van Trinh, owner of "Cambodia's Egg lunch was the first of a series of International Rolls," shares his culinary delights with Mary lunches the center hopes to make availablefrom Ann Roemerat the Center forSocial Concerns. The time to time. 
City elections 

Racial tensions plague Chicago 
CHICAGO (AP) -On a steamy has serious race relations blacks moved into previously white July afternoon in 1919, a a black problems," he says, " ... but by any areas, causing panic sales ofhousing. teen-ager floated beyond the imagi­rational standing, Chicago's made nary line separating blacks and Rose says 85 percent of blacks
great progress in race relations."
whites at a Lake Michigan beach and now live in areas that are 90 percent
"Are there repeated racial inci­
drowned. Rumors had it he'd been or more black.
dents going on from week to week?
pelted with stones. Riots began. Many say it was the 1950s and
Baloney," says Ed Marciniak, a for­
For four days blacks and whites 1960s -the era of Mayor Richard).
mer director of the Chicago Com­
battled in the streets. 38 people died Daley -when racial divisions were
mission on Human Relations. And he
and more than 500 were injured. solidified by a massive public
said the "most racially segregated"
More than 50 years later, that divi­housing construction program.
tag also has been put on Washington,
sion still is apparent in the nation's 
Proposals to scatter the low­second largest city, as Rep. Harold income housing were killed by City 
FRIQAY!
Washington campaigns to become Hall. Rose says the Chicago Housing Chicago's first black mayor. 
Authority "steered blacks into black The American melting pot has areas." Today, 85 percent of the been slow to boil in Chicago, where 143,000 public housing residents


ocus 

many ethnic neighborhoods are still are black. starkly divided. Expressways, rail­Meanwhile, critics say a separate road tracks and street corners often D.C., Cleveland, Detroit and Gary, 
see CHICAGO, page 5

separate blacks from whites. Some Ind. are called "racial frontier" streets, The first wave of black jobseekers 
Investigation clears . EMTs of negligence-­
ByVIC SCIULLI tempted to restrain the victim and Assistant News Editor prevent him from hurting himself. The victim experienced severe 
An investigation has cleared two muscle contractions and uncon­South Bend emergency medical sciousness intermittently for several technicians of negligence in the minutes. treatment of a student who suffered AU three said that they were not a diabetic seizure last Tuesday in the sure whether the fall was the cause North Dining Hall. ofthe seizure or whether the seizure 
Noreen Broering, emergency caused the fall. Accident victims medical sevices coordinator be­who suffer head injuries often ex­tween St. Joseph Hospital and the perience seizures later because ofan emergency medical technicians said injury to the brain. that the EMTs' decision to release Dodd asked the victim whether or the victim was proper and that "they not he was an epileptic or whether acted according to standard he was taking any medications, to procedures." which the victim answered "no" 
Pat Dodd, Terry Hildner and Phil both times. Fisher, three students who accom­Three minutes into the seizure, a panied the student throughout the cafeteria worker was asked to call an 
seizure to the hospital asked Broer­ambulance. Security was called in­ing to investigate the EMTs' decision stead and arrived approximately five to release the victim on his own minutes later. The two security recognizance even though the vic­guards immediately began asking tim was greatly disoriented and the victim the same questions Dodd "oblivious to his own pains." and Hindler had asked earlier, even 
The seizure began about 12:45. though Dodd said it was apparent The three saw the student collapse the victim was completely dis­near the soda fountain, hitting his oriented and his tongue was bleed­
head hard on the floor. He then ing enough to cause Dodd to think turned over on his side as ifto get up that he "may choke on the blood." but fell into a seizure. While Dodd and Hindler "argued" Dodd, Fisher and Hindler ran to the victim's side, where Dodd at-
see SEIZURE, page 5 

Chicago Demo leader: city suffers either way 
By DAVID SARPHIE "Fast Eddie" Vrdolyak, chairman and PAUL McGINN of the Cook County Democratic 
News Editors 
Committee and alderman from Chicago's lOth Ward, had originally "It's going to be hell no matter 
supported Mayor Jane Byrne in her who wins," predicted Edward 
re-election attempt. But when Vrdolyak, considered the most 
Congressman Harold Washington powerful Democrat in Chicago. as 
captured the Democratic Party's he commented on that city's upcom­
nomination for mayor last Feb. 22, ing mayoral election in a talk here 
Vrdolyak switched his support to yesterday. 
Washington. 

came during World War II, with Chicago mayoral nominee Harold Washington acknowledges with each candidate. Washington's Like others, :\lcDermott is not nearly 100,000 new arrivals raising applausefrom Cook Countv Democratic Chairman Alderman Ed­failure to pay income taxes or file convinced Chicago is a racially the black population to 350,000. u•ard Vrdolvak during a meeting ofthe Cook Coun~v Democratic divided city without hope. "Chicago Each wave brought tension, as Central Committee last month in Chicago. see VRDOLYAK, page 6 

News Brie/§ 
Friday, April 8, 1983 -page 2 

By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 

Chained to the middle 
Father Charles Kannengiesserwill speak on "The Contemporary Task of Historical Theology" at 4:30p.m. today in the Memorial Library auditorium as part of his inauguration as Catherine F. Huisking Professor ofTheology at Notre Dame. Kannen­giesser, an internationally known professor of historical theology, came to Notre Dame in the fall of I982 from the Institut Catholique in Paris where he was chairman ofgraduate studies in theology from 1970-75, succeeding Jean Cardinal Danielou. Born in Michelbach, France, Kannengiesser was ordained a Jesuit priest July 30, 1958 at Senlis, France. He studied theology, classical languages and philosophy at the Sorbonne in Paris, the University of Montpellier, the University of Strasbourg, the Jesuit Theologate in Chantilly and the Institut Catholique where he received his doctorate in theology in 1970. His th teological research topics have included the history of biblical exegesis in the ancient church and Alexandrian Christology. 
Last fall, Kannengiesser received France's highest academic honor, 
the Doctorat d'Etat-es-Lettres, from the Sorbonne. -The Observer 
A veteran Massachusetts state trooper was sentenced to 12 years in prison yesterday for his role in smuggling 18 tons of marijuana into the United States. Arnold W. Ellis Jr., 44, once used his police car to lead a truck loaded with marijuana from a warehouse in Concord to a salvage yard in Middleton, prosecutors said in the 97­day federal court trial. Ellis, of Gloucester, a former corporal and 
19-year veteran ofthe state police force, was convicted March 11 on six counts of smuggling marijuana in two operations in June and November of I977. He also was fined $60,000. Three other men convicted with him received lesser sentences. -AP 
Saint Mary's College will award its pres­tigious President's Medal to South Bend businessmanJerry Hammes during its 136 commencement exercies May I4. The President's Medal, first given in 1967, honors a person who has supported and served his community and Saint Mary's in outstanding fashion. The award has been presented only II times. Hammes, vice chairman of the College's Board of Regents, is president of the South Bend Economic Development Commission and chairman of the board of Romy Hammes, Inc., ofSouth Bend. Hammes was elected to the Saint Mary's Board of Regents in 1978 and assumed his vice chairman position last year. He has served as chairman of the board's commit­tees on student life, the building ofthe Cushwa-Leighton Library and the renovation of the Haggar College Center. -The Obsroer 
A fonnerJackson County,Mo. employee who was kept on the payroll while recovering from injuries suffered in the 1981 Hyatt Regency skywalk collapse wants to return the S4,500 he was paid then. John D. O'Flaherty, county Property Tax Division manager, 
said Tom Weir told him he wanted to give the money to the county to repay it for helping him recuperate. Weir, who resigned two weeks ago to return to school, was hospitalized for about two months with leg injuries after the collapse, which killed 114 people and injured about 200 others. Gary L. Panethiere, manager of the county Division of Finance, said the money Weir wants to return is part ofan insurance settlement he received in the Hyatt litigation. ­
AP 

Afl Offshore Oil drilling ban against an Oxy Petroleum Inc. well has been lifted after an investigation into several small oil spills in the Santa Maria Basin. Investigators still must review their information to determine whether Oxy was responsible for the spills reported by fishermen in the Pismo Beach area, Bill Grant, deputy regional manager of the Minerals Management Service, a branch of the U.S. Interior Department, said Wednesday. The company denies it spilled oil into the basin. -AP 
Jail inmates filled additional sandbags for flood-stricken residents of the LaPorte lakes area yesterday as flood waters con­tinued to rise. About a dozen inmates from the LaPorte County Jail were involved in the sandbagging operation. At least I 0 residents around Pine Lake have been forced to leave their homes and several others are preparing to do so because of the floods, according to Richard Pliske, president of the LaPorte Lakes Association. Associa­tion members said they were gratified to hear ofa proposal by Mayor William Angrick this week to pump flood waters through an under­ground piping system and into the Kankakee River. The plan must be approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. The mayor says he is hopeful that pumping of water from the lakes can begin within 45 days if his plan is approved. "We've had our hopes up before but something always seemed to happen to make the plans go against us," Pliske said, adding that this time there is "cautious enthusiasm." -AP 
In downtown Chicago, Harold Washington campaign buttons outnumber Bernard Epton pins 30 to I. A lot of whites arc wearing Washington buttons, yet more than a few seem to sport their pins as a defense against a supposed would-be black mugger. 
Few whites on the South Side wear Washington pins. 
These blue collar Democrats wear solid white buttons 
which they traded for Byrne and Daley pins when 
Harold Washington captured the Democratic nomina­
tion. Behind screened porches and barred windows, 
Epton campaign signs peer out on streets which resi­
dents fear to walk down at night. 
Behind the double locks and door chains lie burglar 
alarms and German Shepherds -and very scared 
people. Whether religious or not, each family allows 
only one curse word at the dinner table: nigger. 
These whites live in fear of race riots -riots which only I 5 years ago came only as close as television coverage ofWatts, Detroit, and New York. It was during that turbulent time that Chicago was protected from the "black menace" by the strong-arm tactics of pseudo-saint Mayor Richard Daley. 
Now, many whites see that supposed menace as the next mayor of a city, a city which is 60 percent white; and for many whites, that logically means Chicago should have a white mayor. 
While these whites disap­prove of President Reagan's economic philosophy, they have not lost hope in their dream for a better life through the capitalistic sys­tem or democracy -for many, synonymous terms. 

Although staunch defenders of Franklin Roosevelt's mixed economy (which most swear singlehandedly got America out of the Great Depression), they arc ever wary ofthe welfare system because most are too proud to ever ask for a handout; everyone should work, regardless of his skills or education. But it is the very downfall of the basic education ofwhites which has led so many to make emotional political decisons. 
In Chicago, Carl Sandburg's "City of Big Shoulders," 
education, especially higher education, makes little dif­
ference. In a city with a 12.8 percent unemployment 
rate, a skilled worker has a better chance ofgetting a job 
than d~es a person with a bachelor of arts degree. Few 
blue collar workers discuss politics at more than a 
lunch counter, as a gurgling stomach and chilled body 
easily win over a hungry mind. 

These whites arc much like their grandfathers who 60 years ago contended with the mass immigration of blacks from the South. A man, and hence a group, 
The~Observer 
My Favorite Cookie 

Design Editor. ......... Oatmeal-raisin Small 
Design Assistant. ......... 'nilla wafers Clark T)'pesetter... . ....... Napoleons Oakley News Editor...... ...................... Oreo Sciulli Copv Editor........ DininK hall specials May 
Features Lt~vout .... Ginger ~nap Hamihon Editorials layout ....... No cookies Brown 
,\ports Cop)' Editor....... Tollhouse Labate NIJ Da)' Editor. ...... Peanut butter Petters .\'MC Da)' Editor. ........... Bad hoy Bruccv TJ•pisl... .. ....... Browned again Ad nesign ......... ................... Molasse!'. Slota 
Photographer... .. .............. llagcb Laches Guest Appearances . ........ Coconut Doyle 
Ursula Hayes No sugar umight in my coffee One awesome artist Lorna Doone (he wi~hes~) 
Yum Yums (also a dream) 

Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 

Inside Frida 

threatened a way of life which kept a wife and family fed, clothed, housed and protected. It continues to be this so-called threat to which lower middle class whites attach their fears. 
For so long, blacks have been the bottom rung of the social ladder, protecting whites from sitting in the slop of unemployment and despair. But now, those same blacks who were known by their first names have climbed over many whites on their way to full political representation. 
Most blue collar whites fail to understand that it is they who are to gain the most from a Washington vic­tory. But it is not their fault that they have misun­derstood Washington cam­paign rhetoric. 
IfWashington wants to be elected, he must appeal to the black community as a black mayor and turn his election into a crusade ofra­cial pride. It is this crusade 
of racial pride, however, which has alienated so many whites. But when Washing­ton wins the election, the crusade will fade as he must become a mayor for all of Chicago's 3 million people, 
From the day of his inauguration, Washington will be under the close scrutiny ofa nation which is convinced that Chicago is "America's most segregated city." Un­doubtedly, Washington will do anything he can to prove he is not a mayor just for black Chicagoans. 
For the first time in many years, the white blue collar community holds the pivotal position; they arc no lon­ger the pawns of a Democratic machine but the decid­ing vote, and their support of Washington would change dramatically the course of race relations in the city. 
But this election itself, whatever the results, will be no different from those in the past. Whoever wins will claim a "people's victory"; whoever loses will claim his opponent won not on issues, but on passion. And both will be right. 




arteRnoon lunches thiS thURS & ~RI rRom 11 :00 till 1 :00. 
Com€ out anb REally €OJOY youR lunch tim€ BREak 
Partly cloudy and cool today. A 20 percent chance of light rain developing. High in the upper 40s to low 50s. Good chance for light rain tonight and tomorrow. Low in the mid 30s. High in the upper 40s. -AP 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students ol Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscrtpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year 1S15 per semeslert by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Noire Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction n~hts are reserve~ Second class postage pa1d dl Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 

' 


The Observer 
Friday, AprilS, 1983-page 3 

Sacred Heart Church 


Deacons to be ordained to~norrow 
By CATHY PAX California. As a seminarian, Jenkins divinity at Notre Dame. StaffReporter WQ!ked)n ~-\1assachusetts hospital, While in the seminary, he worked at Catholic Worker Houses in as a counsellor for a year at the fami­
Four deacons have completed Omaha and Colorado Springs, and ly and Children's Center in Misha­their theological and pastoral train­was associated with Amnesty Inter­waka, and has served at Saint ing at Moreau Seminary and will be national in Berkeley. Joseph's parish for the past two ordained as priests tomorrow at Jenkins will offer his first Mass in years. During the summers, he has 
1:30 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. his home parish, Saint Leo's in worked with alcoholics in Portland, 
RichardS. Bullene,John I. Jenkins, Omaha, on Sunday, April 17. jenkins Oregon, and with the needy of Los Paul F. LeBrun, and Ronald P. Raab, plans to continue his education with Angeles. His ministry also included will be ordained Holy Cross priests graduate study in Theology at working with handicapped adults in by Rev. William McManus, bishop of Berkeley, California. Colorado. the Diocese of fort Wayne-South LeBrun, 26, from Wiesbaden, Raab will offer his first Mass of 
Rev. Paul F. LeBrun, C.S.C. Rev. RichardS. Bullene, C.S.C. 

Rev. Ronald P. Raab, C.S.C. Rev. john /.jenkins, C.S.C. 
Saint Mary's receives $500,000 science grant 
By SONYA STINSON 
Senior StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's College will receive a SSOO,OOO matching grant from the Lilly Endowment, Inc. of In­
dianapolis to renovate its Science Hall and purchase new equipment for the biology, chemistry and physics departments. Saint Mary's has pledged to raise S!.; million in matching funds within the next three years. ' 
The renovation project will in­clude improving the maintenance and enerb'Y efficiency ofthe building and providing additional space for teaching and laboratory research. The hall was built originally in 19'55 for a student body of kss than 1,000. Todav the building accommodates 1800 students. 
The biology, chemistry and physics departments will use part of the funds to update their t;ICilitie~ with the purchase of a water purification system, a ventilating system and other equipment. 
According to Karen Croake Heis­ler of the office of public informa­tion, the latest grant is one of many which Saint Mary's has received from the Lilly Endowment. Most recently. Carol Ann Carter, assistant professor ofart, and Gail Mandell, as­sistant professor of humanistic studies, have received grants from the Lilly Corporation. 
"They aid all kinds of educational projects and foundations," Heisler said." 
She also noted that the College's methods for raising its share of the money will be routine. "The developing office is handling it. There are no special campaign plans. They will approach it the same way as they raised the money tiJr the library." 

Bend. 
Bullene, of Salinas, California, is 30 years old, and is presently a deacon at Holy Cross parish in South Bend. He entered Moreau in 19"76 with a Notre Dame degree in ar­chitecture and divinity. Bullene has served in hospitals and has worked with the elderly in Vermont, Colorado. and South Bend as part of his preparation tor the priesthood. He also spent a year employed with an architectural firm in San fran­cisco. 
His first Mass of thanksgiving will be celebrated in Holy Cross parish on Sunday at 11 a.m. Bullene will remain at Notre Dame after his or­
dination to serve as an assistant rec­tor in Morrissey Hall. He will also be active in Notre Dame's architecture department. 
Twenty-nine year old John Jenkins. of Omaha, Nebraska, en­tered Moreau seminary in 1977 with a degree in philosophy from Notre 
Dame and a master of Divinity de­
gree from theJesuit school ofTheol­
ogy in Berkeley, California. 
He is now serving as a deacon at 

Saint Clement's parish in Hayward, West Germany, entered the semi­nary program at Notre Dame in 1975. He received his earlier educa­tion at -schools in France, Berlin, London, and Belgium. He holds a bachelor's degree and a master of divinity degree from Notre Dame. 
While in the seminary, he developed and implemented a youth ministry program at Little flower parish in South Bend, where he is serving as a deacon. This youth program enabled high school stu­dents to work in a poor parish in North Carolina during the summer. He has worked as a school counsel­lor at Saint Joseph's High School and in a program tor abused children in 
South Bend. 
LeBrun will offer his first Mass of thanksgiving in Little flower church on Sunday. He will remain at Little flower to serve as-a priest after his ordination. 
Ronald Raab, 27, deacon at Saint Joseph's parish, South Bend, entered the seminary at Notre Dame after graduation from Edwardsburg, Michigan, high school. He has earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy and a master's degree in 
thanksgiving in Saint Joseph's parish church, South Bend, on Sunday at 
11:30 a.m. Raab plans to remain at Saint Joseph's to begin his ministry as a Holy Cross priest. He will also offer a Mass of thanksgiving in his home parish church, Our Lady ofthe Lake, Edwardsburg, on Sunday, April 
17, at 10:30 a.m. 
four ordinations is an average figure for Moreau Seminary said Father Tom Smith, superior of the seminary. Moreau ordains its stu­dents once a year, on the Saturday following Easter. 
Enrollment at Moreau has been increasing however. with an average class increase of five students per year. "In the last three to tour years, we've had particularly strong classes," said Smith. 79 seminarians currently study at Moreau. 
A Holy ·Cross priest has a special ministry Smith said. "You are going on a mission to serve the people of the world, rather than to serve a par­ticular area." There are 2000 Holy Cross priests serving around the world today. 

Right to left 


Surgeons transfer man~ hand 
BOSTON (AP)-ln an explosion 

six years ago, a 35-year-old man lost 
most of his left hand, and nerve 
damage left his right hand healthy 
but useless. So doctors switched his 
good right hand to his left arm, and 
they say it should work. 
"At first, it was a strange bedfel­low," William Anderson said of his newly placed hand. "But now it's become a friend." 
Anderson was injured by a Revolutionary War cannon in 1977 during a Memorial Day ceremony at a cemetery in suburban Concord. Black powder ignited as he rammed the charge into the cannon. 
The blast tore off his left hand, leaving only a thumb. He also lost 
Bitter response 

Soviets reject weapons ceiling 
WASHINGTON (AP) The United States recentlv proposed mutual ceilings on long-range bom­bers and air-launche-t d cruise missiles, but was rebuffed by a "caustic and acerbic" Soviet l'nion response. Reagan administration of­tkials said yesterday. 
"To date the Soviet response in this round has been dilawry and dis­appointing," Speakes, the White House spokesman, said in confirm­ing that a new U.S. proposal was tabled last month in Geneva, Swit­zerland. 
It wa~ the first time the ad­ministration formally offered in the talks to impose numerical ceilings on strategic bombers and air­launched cruise missiles. The l 1nited States has an edge in both types of ocean-spanning weapons. 
An official close to the talk.'> who declined to have his name disclosed said the Soviets insisted that a ban be imposed on all kinds of cruise missiles. He said the U.S. offer to limit strategic bombers on each side to -!00 and devise a formula limiting air-borne cruise missiles was turned down by Soviet officials who said they viewed it as nothing more than another move by the l1nited States to seek nuclear superiority. 
The latest tabulation by the Joint Chiefs of Staff shows a U.S. lead in strategic bombers of :328 to 250. The United States is in the process of developing the new B-1 bomber and advanced cruise missiles, in which it already has a large technological lead. 
The Defense Department however, says the Soviets are striv­ing to catch up on cruise missiles and intelligence sources say they have developed a land-launched ver­sion with a range of 1,900 miles. 
Cruise missiles fly much like pilot­less airplanes and arc designed to change course in flight as opposed to long-range ballistic missiles whose courses cannot be changed once they are launched. 
Speakes contlrmed that U.S. 
negoiator Edward L. Rowny had 

presented a new proposal, but did 
not divulge the details. 
The talks arc to resume in eafly June. Separate talks in the Swiss city on limiting intermediate-range l'.S. and Soviet missiles will reopen May 
1:. Progress on both fronts has been 
slow. 
The proposal marked another major U.S. tactical shift in negotia­tions to· harness nuclear weapons. Last month. President Reagan called for an interim agreement cutting back L.S. and Soviet intermediate­range nuclear missiles. Initially he 
sought a total ban. 
In the strategic weapons field, Reagan tocu~ed last May onforcing a reduction in land-based strategic missiles, the heart of the Soviet nuclear arsenal. He called tor limit­ing the Geneva negotiations in their first phase to ballistic missiles, there­by deferring bombers and cruise missiles for subsequent rounds of talks. 
the thumb of his right hand. The other four fingers were fine but use­less because of nerve damage in his right arm. 
Doctors hoped the nerves in his right arm would heal so he could use his hand. But they didn't. and on feb. 22 an eight-member surgical team operated tor 19 hours at Massachu­setts General Hospital. 
Doctors sent Anderson home Thursday with one surprisingly normal-looking left hand. Although it is still numb, doctors say the nerves should grow back so he will be able to use it for simple tasks. 
"I hope to be able to load my camera, button buttons, cook food, do the things of my life," said Ander­son. 

HELP WANTED ­Student or students to take over an established New l)lork Wimes campus 
route for fall term. [ 


Jobs duties include set , 
up, selling and early· 
morning delivery of the 

New lnrkWimes 
For full details, please 
call NEW YORK TIMES 
at 1-800-621-0159. 

................~oupon..............._ 
Students and Staff 
of St. ffinty's nnd Notte Dnme 
additional off


JlOO 
On yout best denI on nny new T oyotn. 
Just ptesentcoupon nnd I.D. to · 
ffiichael Fahey at 


ovetlOOstnff, nlum, & students sold Cnll237-4052 one pet customet .................coupon.......s......... 
-~--------~ ~--------~ 
------~~-... ~-~---~-------~ --~----.....-­
The Observer Friday, April 8, 1983 -page 4 



Beach Boys to play Washington D.C. 
The Oh~ervt·r/SCntt Bower  
Ximena Navarro and Mark Donahue work on  munications course in the design lab of the Art  
a newadz,ertising campaignfor their visual com- building  

WASHINGTON (AP) -Interior Secretary James Watt hurriedly replaced the capital's welcome mat for the Beach Boys on Thursday after being set straight by one of their favorite "California Girls." And when Nancy Reagan got done, the president himselfput a heavy foot to him. 
Reagan, it seems, is a fan ofthe sur­
fin' sound as much as his wife. So af­
ter learning that Watt had banned 
the Beach Boys and other rock 
groups from the capital's July 4 
celebration, he handed the Interior 
Secretary a stark reminder of what 
not to do any more. 
A plaster of paris foot with a hole in it. 
Watt, who earlier complained that "hard rock" music had attracted the "wrong element" to the traditional fireworks extravaganza on the Mall, proclaimed himselfa likely fan ofthe Beach Boys, whose performances hacl drawn hundreds of thousands of 
First time in a decade 

Astronauts test space suits, take walk 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -maneuvered a winch with a tOO­Tied to SO-foot leashes, two pound load and carried a SO-pound astronauts took the first U.S. space object across the cargo bay. walk in nearly a decade yesterday, Musgrave was the first out and the perfecting ways for shuttle crews to last in, entering the shuttle hatch fix ailing satellites in years to come. feet t1rst, swinging his body down 
Against the dramatic backdrop of and in as if he were hanging on a the cloud-mottled Earth turning trapeze. below. astronauts Story Musgrave The astronauts asked for and were and Don Peterson turned an ener­given an extension of the 3 hours getic work day into a joyous and scheduled for their EVA (extra­acrobatic outing. vehicular activity) -the tlrst of the 
After 3 hours and SO minutes in shuttle program. They completed all Challenger's open cargo bay, of their tasks, apparently with little Musgrave took one last look over the trouble. side at the Hawaiian Islands below. Musgrave and Peterson had what 
"It's pretty cloudy over the islands Mission Control called "a momen­right here," he said when Mission tary difficulty" with an experiment Control asked ifhe could see the vol-that involved a winch and simulated cano Kilauea which has been erupt· a contingency operation in case a ing in recent weeks. satellite deployment didn't work. 
Musgrave and Peterson tested A rope apparently caught on a their 52.1 million space suits and "peg-like protrusion" from the their own ability to work in the bulkhead and Musgrave had to free hostile environment of open space. it. They practiced with tools, When they first ventured out, pretended to free a stuck satellite, Musgrave nearly swung himselfover 
r·-----------------------·I N.D. Student Union is proud to present :.
i .ALEX HALEY 1 Author of Roots  :I  
I  and  1  
:  The AutobiograP-hY  I  
1 I  of Malcolm X  1I  
: speaking on: . 1 "The Future of the Family"  11·  
I  I  
I  Wednesday, April13, 1983 8:00p.m.  1  
:  Library Auditorium  -reception following  ~  




·------------------------· 
Bargain  
Matinees  
HIGH ROAD  Dustin Hoffman  SAVANNAH SMILES  
TO  TOOTSIE  
CHINA  1:30-3:30  
1:30-3:25  2:00-4:30  5:30-7:30  
5:20-7:15  7:00-9:30  9:40  
9:30 IPGI  ~  ~  

Midnight Shows Friday & Saturday Rocky Horror • Pink Floyd The Wall 
Fast Times at Ridgemont High 
2 for 1 Midnight Shows with this ad 
the side of the space ship, doing a handstand on the rim. He was restrained by his tether. 
"It's so bright out here," he said. 
Mission Control asked how the real thing compared with the train­ing in a large swimming tank. 
"It's a little deeper pool than I'm 
used to working in," said Musgrave. 
Peterson immediately went to a 
box and removed tools specially 
built for space use. Both astronauts 
flexed their arms and moved their 
legs to evaluate the mobility of the 
new S2.1 million suits. 

Musgrave. also climbed up the side of the rear bulkhead to take a look at the material that is flapping loose be­hind one engine. 
Tht astronauts, protected from the hostile environment only by thei• spacesuits, planned to spend 3 hours at their tasks. 
About a half an hour before they ventured out, President Reagan placed a cadio-telephone call to Commander Paul). Weitz. He told Weitz he didn't envy the astronauts. Asked why, later, by reporters in the Oval Office, Reagan replied: "I don't know, maybe a little claustrop­hobia." 
The mission, Reagan told Weitz, "serves as a symbol, I think, of our commitment to maintain America's leadership in space. It couldn't be done without men like those aboard Challenger." 
"We appreciate that," Weitz responded. "I know that it's an old and well used song, but we just get the glory, we rtally get to stand on the shoulders ofgiants to participate in this program." 
The spacesuits malfunctioned on the t1fth and most recent flight ofthe shuttle Columbia in November, preventing a planned space walk. 
The suits have undtrgone ex­tensive checking but. still, four bat· teries that power lights in the hdmets failed to work. 
people in years past. 
"The president is a friend of the 
Beach Boys and he likes them, and 
I'm sure when I get to meet them I'll 
like them," Watt said, standing in a 
drizzling rain after emerging from 
the White House. 
He said he still would go ahead 
with his decision to bring in Las 
Vegas crooner Wayne Newton for 
this year's main event. As for the 
Beach Boys, "We'll look forward to 
having them here to entertain us 
again, as soon as we can get that 
worked out." 
Reagan's chief spokesman, Willie Nelson fan Larry Speakes, suggested a more specific timetable: inviting them back for thisjuly 4. 
Watt, who has managed to stand off environmtntalists, Indians, con­gressmen and other critics, raised the white flag just hours after it was apparent, in the wake of a flood of protest calls from around the nation, that the Beach Boys still enjoyed Good Vibrations elsewhere in the adminbtration. 
Presidential aide Michael Deaver 
was the tlrst to send Watt the White 
House message. "Anybody who 
thinks the Beach Boys are hard rock 
must think Mantovani plays jazz," he 
declared. He mentioned his wife and 
children had loved their capital per­
formance. 
Next came word from Mrs. 
Reagan: "I like the Beach Boys." And 
Speakes said he wouldn't be a bit 
surprised if Reagan did, too. 
According to the interior secretary. he then got a call from the first lady. "She said that the Beach Boys were fans of hers, and her children had grown up with them, and they're tine outstanding people, and there should be no intention to indicate that they cause problems." 
"Which I agree with," Watt added. 
Radio stations across the country were deluged with denunciations of Watt's decision. and members of Congress had a field day. 
Reagan, in a speech to several thousand Catholic educators, joked, "It's a pleasure to break away from crisis negotiations. You're the first to know this: I've just called in Ambas­sador Phil Habib to settle the Jim Watt-Beach Boys controversy." 



ND Clubs & Organizations TIME TO RE-REGISTER FOR 83-84. NEW SYSTEM THIS YEAR! 
1. 
Registration-now thru April 22. 

2. 
Activity Report-Due by April22. 


3. Applications for activity funds for 83-84-Due by April22. 
4. 
Footbal Concession Stand for Fall, 83-Due April 22. 

5. 
Movie Application for Fall, Spring 83-84-Due April15 


All forms available in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune. FUNDS FOR NEXT YEAR WILL BE AWARDED THIS SPRI~ 
lllllllllllllllllltllfllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.IHHIIIIHH.....HHIIIHII 
Student Activities meeting
monday, Aptilll, 7:00pm, Libtaty Auditotium 
PURPOSE: 


To explnin new procedures nnd to nnswer questions regnrding registrntion of clubs, finnncinl stntements, budget requests, movie nnd footbnll concessions, etc. WHO SHOULD COffiE: A representive from ench club or orgnnizntion on cnmpus. 
f.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIIHHH..HIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII....II....I •••.z 
I: 
• 
• 
continuedfrom page 1 
with the two security guards 
whether or not the victim should be 
transported to the hospital for treat­
ment, they heard the operator ask­
ing the guards over their 
walkie-talkies whether or not an am­
bulance should be called, affirming 
that an ambulance had never been 
called. 
Twenty-five minutes after the 
seizure had begun, paramedics 
arrived. Dodd and Fisher said that 
the paramedics also asked the victim 
the same questions that had been 
asked twice before. While taking the 
victim's blood pressure, the medics 
noticed needle marks in the victims 
arms. It was then that they learned 
from the victim that he was a 
diabetic. 
The victim told the paramedics that he had never experienced a seizure before. The three students later learned however, that the vic­tim had experienced a seizure once before. 
Dodd said that both paramedics were relying on the information the victim gave, despite the fact that he was still very disoriented. A few minutes later the paramedics had the victim sign a release form after he refused to be taken to the hospi­tal. Hindler said that the student was so disoriented and incoherent at the time that "he would have signed away his family fortune." 
Dobbs and Fisher said that when 
the EMTs learned that the student 
was a diabetic, "they apparently for­
got about his injuries," and did not 
check him for a possible concussion 
or take care ofhis bleeding tongue. 
Broering said that the EMTs' can not legally force a victim to do some­thing he doesq't want unless it is a "life and death situation." 
One EMT finally agreed that "it wouldn't be a bad idea to go to the infirmary" to have the student ex­amined. Security drove the victim and Dodd to the infirmary where Dodd said they experienced a "power play" on the part of one of the nurses. 
The attending nurse began questioning the student. While Hindler attempted to impress upon the nurse the seriousness of the situation and that the victim had al­ready been questioned, Dodd spoke with University physician Or. Ber­nard Vagner, who recommended that the v1ct1m be taken "immediately to the emergency room at St. joseph since we don't have the facilities to take care ofhim here." 
When Fisher attempted to tell a second nurse that the student needed to go to the hospital, he said that she responded "Did you take a vote on this? Who's in charge here, the kid with the apple (referring to Fisher)?" Dodd said that she 
"shrugged olf' what he said when he told her what Vagner had said. 
Dodd said that the nurse then told the security guard that he would not be needed to drive the patient to the hospital. Dodd then intervened and explained that the patient did need to be taken to the hopspital. The nurse then became extremely angry according to Dodd, "tearing papers offher clipboard and throwing them in another nurse's face." 
The nurse, however, denies that 
she said anything like that to any of 
the students or that she told the 
security guard he was not needed 
anymore. 
"Security stayed in the room until it was decided that the student would be taken to the hospital," she 
said. 
The nurse remembers examining the student's head and tongue for in­juries but does not remember checking any vital signs. She es­timated that the student spent "less than five minutes" in the infirmary before he was driven to the hospitaL 
Dodd feared that had he not inter­
rupted Vagner, the victim may have 
• • Seizure 
had to wait an hour before getting medical attention. The patient finally arrived at St. joseph Hospital at approximately 
2:1 5, one and one-halfhours after his seizure began. At this point, the patient could remember his name, room number, and his home address and phone number, but couldn't remember things like his father's name, his 10 number or campus phone. 

A blood test revealed that the patient's blood sugar level was low and he was promptly given a glucose infusion. Dodd said that within five minutes he returned to normal, ex­cept for a bump on his head and a swelling tongue. 
Dodd said that the victim did not recognize him when he saw him an hour later at the infirmary. After ex­plaining that he had accompanied him throughout the seizure, Dodd learned that the victim did not remember ever going to the dining hall or anything up until he had been in the hospital for ten minutes. 
Dodd and Hildner were both up­set by the fact that the victim would have been released on his own recognizance, possibly endangering his safety, had it not been for their insistence that he be hospitalized. They were especially upset by the amount of time the victim went without treatment, fearing during that time the victim could have lapsed into another seizure. 
In some instances of diabetic seizures, eating something that has a high sugar content without properly determining the cause ofthe seizure could result in a very severe reac­tion. 

= 

The Observer Friday, April 8, 1983 -page 5 
Bob Fricke of "We Eat Meat on Fridays Plus Bookstore Basketball action when his team lost One" lost more than his pants yesterday in to "Even-lessjacksonlessFive" 21-6. 
continuedfrom page 1 
and unequal policy also evolved in 
the public schools, where over­
crowding in the 1960s led to black 
students being placed on double 
shifts and later in mobile classrooms. 
Protests followed. Tens of 
thousands of black students stayed 
home in a boycott ofclassrooms. 
In 1966, Martin Luther King made Chicago the target of his first north­ern crusade. The late civil rights leader assailed Daley's style of "plantation politics," and during one 
THEHIIRLEM 

GLOBETROTTERS® 

• • • Chicago 

march he was hit in the head with a brick. 
King met with Daley, but, accord­ing to Marciniak, left Chicago in frustration. 
Some political observers say Chicago's political machine including black politicians thwarted racial progress. 
Some blacks; Rose says, wanted blacks contained in a neighborhood. "It was their power base. They went along wtth it." 
In recent years, Chicago's racial problems have moved from the streets to the courts. Suits filed by the U.S. justice Department and civil rights groups accuse the city of ra­cial discrimination in public 
schools, housing, parks, political dis­tricting and police hiring. 
"People have a difficult time coming to terms with black con­sciousness," says AJ Raby, Washing­ton's campaign manager, a civil rights marcher and one-time aide to King. "People are concerned what was done over the years (to blacks) will now be done to them." 


U·DON'T HAVE·TO·HAUL 
Delivered from school to home! 
S.U. Ticket Office/ Record Store (1st floor LafOrtune) for more information 
Less than 
$200 

THE WHITE CENTER FOR LAW AND GOVERNMENTANNOUNCES 

"The Role of Political Action Committees in the American Political Process" 
Terry Dolan Fred Wertheimer 
National Chairman President of 
Friday April 8 


of NCPAC Common Cause 
Room 101 The Law School 


.....,
---.\ -~---------~----~~-----~-----~-~-~-~--------------------------~ 
Demonstrators protesting President Ronald Reagan's policies bold signs as they gather outside Pittsburgh's Hilton Hotel Wednesday 
• • • Vrdolyak 
continued/rom page I 

statements over a 19-year period "was dumb." The alderman also mentioned Washington's five-year disbarment. 
But Washington's greatest mistake, according to Vrdolyak, was his failure to pay water bills and real estate taxes for office space used during the campaign. These facts, anonymity. "The biggest problem with Bernie Epton is 'Who is Bernie Epton?' Epton would have no

''Excellent. 
chance if the Democratic candidate was white."

The food was wonderful ­
The black community has "a

service, excellent-and the sa 
legitimate complaint that the whites 
,, (specifically those Democrats supporting Epton) are taking a
was great.0~ w. '???~ 
walk," Vrdolyak said. 
But Vrdolyak noted, "He (Washington) stated right after the election (primary) that he demanded and was entitled to the support of the Democratic Party." However, Washington endorsed the Republican candidates in the 1978 governor's race and in the 1980 election ofstate's attorney. 
Accordmg to Vrdolyak, Democrats turning on Democrats is not new to Chicago. "We've had a break (in the Democratic Party of Chicago) since 1979 when Byrne 
"Thank you, thank you, thank you! beat Michael Bilandic." Great food and service 
·~ 
As to the effects of the candidate's . . .golly, I fee/like family!" personalities upon the last days of the race, Vrdolyak said "Epton's a good man; Washington's a good 
Sandy Bronicki man. We're just caught in an ugly Mishawaka. Indiana situation, whoever wins -the city's not going to be a nice place for a 
long time."
':At Tippecanoe Place.

"/ really enjoyed the sole and salad. our food is as fabulous
Service was excellent ... I'II be back." 
publicly disclosed yesterday, may strategies of the candidates, than I SO jeering whites. 
hurt Washington's campaign in the Vrdolyak said Washington had made 
"I think you don't march up to a Lake Front area some tactical mistakes confusing 
Northwest church; you pick out the This section, noted for its liberal practicality and principle. Ofspecial 
two swing areas and stay there till tendencies, is crucial as a "swing mention was an incident on Palm election day is over. Principle? Save area" of uncommitted voters. "The Sunday when Washington and for· the principle till after the election. 
election will be won or lost on the mer Vice President Walter Mondale What good is a principle ifyou don't Lake Front and in the Hispanic com­visited a Roman Catholic Church in 
get elected on April 12th?" munity," Vrdolyak maintained. a predominately white neighbor­Referring to the campaign Vrdolyak went on to describe the
hood. The two were met by more problems with Epton's political 


Committee slashes Pentagon budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Senate Budget Committee, in open defiance of President Reagan, voted I 7-4 Thursday to slash his Pentagon buildup in halfnext year. 
The panel's alternative grants the Defense Department an increase in spending authority of5 percent after inflation for fiscal 1984, in contrast to Reagan's demand for a 10 percent hike. 
Reagan's version was first rejected 19-2. An 8 percent option offered by Sen. john Tower, R-Texas., failed 14­7, before eight Republicans join nine Democrats to adopt the 5 percent plan. 
Immediately before the vote, 
Associated 
Chairman Pete Domenici, R-N.M.,
where be was addressing the National Conference 
made it clear he blamed administra­
on the Displaced Worker. 
tion intransigence for the defeat. 
"I think it's rather incredulous to 
say that you can't defend this· 
country without a 10 percent in­
crease, and there aren't anv op­
tions," he declared. 
Because of the nature of the 
Pentgaon's long-term contracting, 
the vote would cut S3.3 billion from 
Reagan's budget for the year begin­
ning Oct. I, but the savings would 
total nearly S89 billion over five 
years. 
It was the second highly visible budget defeat in a row for Reagan, who scored multiple successes in his first two years in office. 
Late last month, the House of 
Representatives approved a 
Democratic-drafted budget that cut 
Reagan's defense buildup by even 
more, while calling for a 530 billion 
tax increase and restoration of S33 
billion in cuts in social programs. 
Republicans hold a 12-10 
majority on the panel. Those voting 
against the 5 percent plan included 
Republicans Tower, Orrin Hatch of 
Utah, Steven Symms of Idaho and 
Charles Grassley, an Iowan who 
favors a spendingfreeze for defense. 
Several Republicans who sup­ported the 5 percent increase said they were doing so to apply pressure upon Reagan to compromise over his original 5244.7 billion defense request for next year. 
But "It is my view that the in­creases originally recommended by the president should be cut in half," said Sen. Slade Gorton, R-Wash. 
"The only way to make them com­promise is to vote," said Sen. Dan Quayle, R-Ind. He said he favors higher spending than the 5 percent increase mentioned by Gorton, but was willing to support that figure as a means offorcing Reagan's hand. 
The 5 percent proposal provides average increases ofthat amount for each of the next five years. Commit­tee officials say the effect is to stretch _out the buildup Reagan wants, but still provide more than 90 percent of what the he is calling for over the five-year period. 
Despite the jockeying in the com­mittee, Reagan's spokesman told reporters, "I know of no change" in the president's position that has been relayed to the committee. 
But, added Larry Speakes, "We continue to work with the commit­tee ...in order to come up with something that is acceptable. 
"I would judge when they come to a point where they've got a budget on domestic, on revenues and on defense that we will make some judgment and pass our judg­
ment along to them." 

as our setting. Our staff is dedicated to providing you with the finest
~.,:z~c~ 
dining experience to be found anywhere ... at 
Mr. George Close 
Coldwater. Michigan an affordable price. Next time you plan to dine out. visit us at Tippecanoe Place. You '//like the way we make the occasion special." 
Mark McDonnell. General Manager 




dy~KM~~ w~ 
©1983. Conlirwnla~FWstaurant 5y!JE"ms







r---------------------,
ANY TWO (2) DINNER ENTREES I
I TIPPECANOE 
I I PLACE® 
JUST$1995 I I 
RESTAURANT 
You can save up to $13.45 
I
I 
Present this coupon when ordering and you and your companionI will receive any two dinner entrees of your choice. including our 
I 
tableside salad. bread and butter. vegetable of the day. and riceI or potatoes for just ~19.95. 
I 
Coupon good during dinner hours through June 30. 1983. except I on Easter. Mother's Day and May 13 through 15. 1983. Not 
I 
valid in conjunction with any other special offers or for banquets.I 620 W Washington. South Bend. 234·9077 
Does not include appetizers. desserts. beverages. or tax and tip 

I 
Reservations available-. 
NDIN·A 
tt:,t983 Cor.tttM:>nral R~..,lauranr ~IPm.., 

~----------------~---~ 
* 
* 
~ 
IheDbserver-= 
is accepting applications for the positions of 
*Copy Editor and *Assistant News Editor. 
******************* 
Deadline for submissions is 4111183. 
Jf 






Editorials 
Friday, April 8, 1983 -page 7 
R~sidentiality at Notre Dame 
P. 0. BoxQ 

The various activities of ball life demonstrate the challenges ofhuman inter­action ... 
RandyFahs 
Friday Analysis· 
The above line appears in du Lac as -· an ex­planation ofone ofthe University's main goals for its residential character. But, to what ex­tent does dorm life accurately represent the "challenges of human interaction" in the world? And, ·is the residential character of Notre Dame a catalyst or a hinderance to the development of the student? There are no easy or definite answers to these questions. 
I will not attempt to discuss the question of co-ed housing at Notre Dame because volumes of writing and discussions have al­ready occurred on the topic. It will suffice to ask the following question, though: Do we live 
in a world where there is more than one gen­
der, if so, then how can we expect people to 
develop fully when they live in buildings with­
out both genders? 
The dormitory helps to assimilate the in­dividual into the Notre Dame community. It gives the person a reference group and a sense of belonging. The people we eat with, go to movies and sporting events with, and party with are the people in our dorms. For the most part, our closest friends are the people to which we live in close proximity. It is no small wonder that the main orientation ofour non­academic lives is the hall. 
Is all of this centralization in one place and around one group ofpeople a beneficial thing? For the incoming freshmen, it give a sense of security in a new and unknown environment. But once a person gets acclimated to Notre Dame, it seems that the parochial nature ofthe residence narrows the scope of potential ac­tivities and interactions. 
Notre Dame has no fraternities and 
sororities and is quick to point out that dorms 
are different from these organizations because 
the incomingfreshmen choose a hall (they are 
not chosen by it) and there is no initiation or 
hazing. But, fraternities and Notre Dame 
dorms do have a lot in common. They are in­
ternally oriented, chauvinistic, and suspicious 
of outsiders. Both tend to be exclusive and 
their main interactions with each other are 
more often competitive than social. 
I believe that there is a need to have more 
interaction between dorms in other areas 
than interhall sports. There aren't enough 
campus-wide activities besides sporting events and the ever-popular movies in the Engineering Auditorium. The Chance to Dance program in the LaFortune Ballroom is an excellent way to interact with people of different halls, as are the many clubs and or­ganizations at the University. It is time to revitalize Mardi Gras and resurrect the Polish Wedding and the Irish Wake. I don't want to leave out An Tostal because it is another great 

way to bring people together outside of the dorms. Unfortunately, there aren't enough of these activities, especially in the winter months when boredom and hall-sponsored drunkenness reach their peaks. 
It is easy to say that we need such things, but it is entirely another matter to see them developed and utilized. An old proverb says that it is the wise strategist who can turn his liabilities to his advantage. Ifthere is too much centralization in the dorms, then why don't we exploit this grass roots unity in a campus organization like the Hall Presidents Council or the Student Senate? It will give these two organizations something more useful to work on than meaningless resolutions and proposals which can only be made by the 
Campus Ufe Council. By unifying the campus­wide and internal dorm organizations, we can improve the lines ofcommunication to the in­dividual student as well as provide a viable popular alternative to the closed and paroc­hial atmosphere ofthe hall. 


Apology to ND community 
To the Notre Dame community: 
As you all know by now, a Notre Dame student entered the "Wet Willie" contest in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The student, like his friends, got caught up in the "anythinggoes" atmosphere present in Fort Lauderdale and, more intensely, in The Button Bar. He allowed himself out of fadish pride and in­correct judgment to become part of some­thing he normally would never condone. He acted immaturely and represented Notre Dame in a way that is both personally and administratively unacceptable. I happen to 
know that Tim Schierl is very, very sorry and he, along with his family, has suffered through the toughest lesson ofhis life. He is a proud person who has been humbled. He realizes that through his actions he hurt Notre Dame, Morrissey Hall, his family and worst of all himself. It was painfully em­barrassing for him to attend classes and to walk down the quad knowing that he was the topic of conversation among his peers and his professors. Tim Schier! is sorry for his actions and prays that each member of the Notre Dame community can forgive him 
for his stupid error. I really feel that I know how much Tim has suffered, for I am he. Notre Dame, I am sorry! 
Timothy]. Schier/ 

Theologians'self -interest 
DearEditor: 
I have read with interest the recent ex­change between Prof. Charles Rice and Phil­lip Foubert. They have addressed an issue of critical importance to the Church as institu­tion and community. 
The issue has been variously phrased: "Who's in charge?" (Rice) and "Who are the trustworthy witnesses through whom we may confidently see the truth?" (Foubert). It boils down to a question ofauthority. 
Rice contends that the repository of authority is the Magisterium, that is, the bis­hops and the pope in their teaching office. Foubert states his position clearly: "When 
there is conflict or confusion, because ofthe 
variety of teachers in the Church, it may be 
some solace to recall jesus' promise that the 
Father gives the Spirit ofTruth to those who 
love Him and keep His commandments. 
(John 14:15)." 

The Church has always recognized the 
dynamic activity of the Holy Spirit in the 
lives of the faithful. All who have been 
baptized in Christ share in the gifts of the 
Spirit. By the Holy Spirit we are guided on 
our pilgrimage to salvation. 

Simultaneously, however, the Church has 
also "recognized the unity of believers. The 
way of our pilgrimage is not a collection of 
converging paths, but one "straight and nar­
row" path. Unity of believers necessarily 
implies unity ofbelief. 

It is a matter ofhistorical fact that different 
people can, in good faith, believe that they 
are following the guidance ofthe Holy Spirit 
and yet arrive at opposite views on any num­
ber of issues concerning faith and morals. 
For example, one might sincerely believe 
that Christ did not bodily rise from the dead or that abortion is morally acceptable. Yet, God, who knows all things, knows the true answers to such questions. It would be con­trary to God's design and even to His loving nature that we should, in all good faith, come to division. He would have left us orphans, indeed. Yet we know that He did not, he shows us the Truth "even unto the end of time." 
We can be guided by the Holy Spirit in our 
individual lives and still err because our cor­
poreal nature obscurs our vision, "for now 
we see in a mirror dimly" (I Cor 13:12 ). Our 
spiritual gifts can be, and are, imperfect in us 
(I Cor 13:9). 

The Holy Spirit guides the institutional 
Church with perfection, because the 
Church is not a corporeal body, but the 
Mystical Body ofChrist. 

God is the one source of truth and He has given His Church two modes of knowing it: sacred Scripture and sacred tradition. Both are of equal authority and neither one can contradict the other, for they tell of one truth. The sacred tradition ofthe Church has always been interpreted and guarded by the Magisterium and insured by the guidance of the Holy Spirit. 
Foubert's denial that the Magisterium is the "final arbiter as to what is objectively true and right" on the ground that the Magis­terium makes that claim on its own behalf, is erroneous. His position assumes the very cynical notion that the pope and the bishops are serving some vested interest. 
Furthermore, Rice's statement of Church teaching is not, "I was only following order's coming from a Nazi" (Foubert). But Foubert's argument against the Church's teaching is like the Pharisees's, "You are bearing witness to yourself; your testimony is not true." It can be answered as Jesus answered: "Even if I do bear witness to myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I have come from and where I am going... You judge according to the flesh ..."(John 8:14-15 ). 
The Magisterium (the pope and bishops) has come to us in succession from St. Peter and the Apostles, ordained and consecrated by Christ in Spirit and truth. Their profession of teaching authority is not some manifesta­tion of self-interest. Their teaching and motivation are guided by the Holy Spirit and are not susceptible to judgment "according to the flesh." 

But I do wonder if those theologians who would deny the teaching authority of the Church (especially when their own teach­ings conflict with the teaching of the Church) might not, themselves, be servinga 
selfish interest. Michael D. Quinlan 
Editor's Note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the editorial page. Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone num­ber and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproduc­tions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not accept­able. All letters are subject to editing. 
when a~oung 

rnan turns to Bcd<srore. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic SaintMary'sEditor...............Anne Monastyrski Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe SportsEditor .............................Michael Riccardi T~e Observer is the independent ~ewspaper published by the students of the Uni-' 
ExecutiveEditor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton verstty of Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
NewsEditor.................................Mark Worscheh Photo Editor....................................:.:-Sc-ott Bower curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 

Department Managers
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, BusinessManager........... : .. _ ....... Daniel O'Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto and the free expression ofvaryingopinionson. campus, through letters, is encouraged. Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas SystemsManager...........................Bruce Oakley Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 





--SHOVVCA~S~E~~~Frid~~.Ap~ril8,1~983~page~8 
;_ 
'· 
\ 
An EQster duty 
N
ow that Easter is here, it's time for me to seriously begin my Lent. In the season of new life and renewed grace, I'm dragging around in an Ash Wednesday mood, without the least signs ofbeinga born-again Christian. I still haven't given up smoking. I sill haven't followed the good advice I have grown tired ofgiving others. 
At dinner on Holy Saturday, my young friendJohn mentioned that he never goes to confession. 
"Why not?" l asked. l'm always interested in a Catholic's point of view in matters offaith. God knows, I'm not as regular as l should be in going to confession. 
"In the other sacraments,"John said, "I like the idea ofthe priest's intervening. Ifit's a matter ofsin, I prefer dealing directly with God, without outside help." 
Rev. Robett GtiHin 

I wanted to say: "That's a sign to me, John, that you're not a very big sinner. Ifyou were suffering from a lot ofguilt, you might find a priest's help a gift of mercy from God." Itwasn't my business to tell John Isuspected he was living in a state ofgrace. Instead, without ar­guing, I said: "Remember the sacrament is waiting for you, if you ever need it." 
John's close friend James, also at dinner, is a new face in the Cath­olic Church. Ayear ago,James was baptized at the Easter Vigil; he has never gone to confession to a priest. He hangs around with a lot of fundamentalists -all born-again -at the school he attends. I wanted to tellJohn andjames how beautiful it is to bring your sins to the Lord in the traditional way in which Catholics come home to the love of the Cross. John might have asked: "Father, have you made your Easter confession?" 
Ifl had answered, "Not yet," young Christians might wonder at the worth ofa sacrament that the priest also has neglected. 
Bad habits have a way ofpiling up. The gray in my soul is like the leaden color in the winter sky. My personal sins are silly and boring. Christ should not have needed to die for my burden ofguilt; I don't consider myself an alien to God's great love. I could talk it through with Christ, if I felt like praying. April, the cruellest month, seems like a poor time to pray. My teeth ache from an excess ofjelly beans. 
My mouth feels parched from endless cigarettes. Damn those 
cigarettes, the vice that binds me to habits of which I am ashamed. 
John, James, and Chris and the young ladies with them, talked at dinner of the Easter Mass. After many years ofcelebrating Easter, I should feel younger than any of them. I don't even feel as fully alive as I should be at my age. I keep waiting for someone to push away the stone from the door of the tomb. 
Forty years ago, when I was younge1 thanJames, Iwas considering becoming a Catholic. I was also hoping to become a priest. My folks wouldn't hear any talk ofit. Even if they consented to my becominga Catholic -which they never did -they weren't willing to pay to educate me at a seminary, and I didn't have any money. My health wasn't good. I wanted more and more to become a Catholic priest, and the doors were sealed shut against my ambition. 
I mulled matters over with theJesuit with whom I was talking about becoming a Catholic. 
"Remember," he said, "the holy women on their way to the tomb. They wanted to anoint Christ's body. 'Who,' they asked, 'will roll away the stone from the door?' They had seen the great stone shoved into place; it was a greater barrier than the women could handle. They kept on going to the Lord's burial place. When they got there, they found that the stone had been moved back from the empty tomb." 
I still remember the encouraging words of that Irish Jesuit from Boston. He kept me from giving up hope. "Ifyou have enough faith, the stones in your life will be moved. Just keep on walking toward the Lord. The way will be cleared by the time you get there." 
That simple similitude helped me until the day I was ordained. A recognition that the Lord will remove the barriers between us and Him is the primary lesson of Easter. 
In this first week after Easter, I am hardly Dismas, the good thief, 
trying to steal his way into heaven. I just want to be excited over Eas­
ter, like James and John and their friends. Smoking isn't the un­forgiveable sin, but neither is Easter just a feast day with jelly beans. Smoke[S and non-smokers alike celebrate Easter. I wouldn't even be thinking about Pall Malls, ifl hadn't wanted to give them up as a Len· ten sacrifice. 
Catholics go to confession, ifthey think they should, to fulfill their Easter duty. Jesuits have wise things to say, in or out of the confes­sional. ltwouldn't hurt me to tlnd a priest as smart as a jesuit, and let him bless me with the effects ofthis sacrament. As 1tried to tellJohn at dinner: a good confession is like a good bath. It makes you feel bet· ter whether you think you need it or not. 
An Easter, well-celebrated, may be a step in the right direction away from the smoke-filled rooms. Only a half-born again Christian should need a cigarette if, in his heart, he has reached the Easter gar­den where the Lord defeated death by a knockout. 
L-----------------------------------­

And the envelope, please. • 
A nticipating the Academy .nAwards(to be held Monday April 11)we asked our two film critics, Patrick Mulligan and Den­nis Chalifour, if they wouldn't mind being locked in a room for a couple ofhours until they came up with definite predictions for this 
gala event. We let them out early. 
Best Supporting Acttess: 
Dennis: Jessica Lange. Not be­cause she wholly deserves it but because the Academy seems to be behind her. The only other person on the list posing any sort of threat is Glenn Close, the New York stage actress who made her tllm debut in Garp. The question here is why 
Close's performance is considered supporting. Her screen time in the film was at least that of Robin Wil­liams. This evidences the fact that the Academy is not behind Close. 
Jessica Lange is a sure thing. 
Patrick: None of the perfor­mances in this category are excep­tional, but when Lange is nominated in both this and the Best Actress categories, you can see the Academy is showinga lot of 
support for her. Isee your point about Close. The performance was good but the film came out last summer and it's been forgotten. Jessica Lange will win for her role in Tootsie; she's an up-and-coming actress with a territlc career ahead of her. 

Best Supporting Actor: 
Dennis: I'm split here. Iwant to say Lou Gossett and I'm almost sure he'll win. Sure it was a great performance but there's also a lot of politics behind it. Oscars have been handed out to only two black actors in the history ofthe Awards. I think there'll be a lot of pressure to give it to Gossett. And yet, al­though I'm nearly one hundred percent sure that Gossett will win, I'm going to go out on a limb and predictJohn Lithgow forGarp. It seems like 1982was the year ofthe role-reversal and Lithgow's perfor­mance was the only one in the bunch to deny the playing up of transsexuality in his character in 
favor of playing a character who 
just happened to be a transsexual. 
Patrick: Lithgow I have to dis­count. I agree it was awarm and understated performance and very well-done. But he's an unknown and I'm afraid he'll just get lost in the role reversal shuffle. I'm going to go with Gossett. Itwas a 

credible perli>rmance and the film, 
An Officer and a Gentleman 
deserves to win one major award. It could have easily taken a spot in the Best Picture category and an Oscar to Gossett will not only laud his tine perli>Jnance, but provide a sort ofconsolation prize for that film. 
Ifthere is any competition what­
soever, it comes from james 
Mason. In The Verdict he played a 
sinister counterpart to the Paul 
Newman character. The role was a 
limited one and Mason made the 
most ofit. I have rarely seen a more 
menacing character. 
Dennis: Not to take anything 
away from James Mason-he's one 
ofthe finest actors around -but The 
Verdict did not represent an out-
Dennis Chnl:fo~: &Pa' 
movie reviewers extrQo~~nc 
standing role for him. He'll be around a bit longer, and I think the Academy can stand to wait for something that's more ofa Mason vehicle. When it comes down to 
actors in the Academy voting for their fellow performers, I think they'll recognize the difficult job thatJohn Lithgow did so well. 
Patrick: And probably give it to Lou Gossett. Dennis: Right. 
Best Actor: 
Patrick: Peter O'Toole was great inMy Favorite Year but I'm afraid that film didn't have a wide release, although it was well received. He's already won for LauTence of Arabia. I don't think it's his year. 
Paul Newman in The Verdict has a 
chance simply because he's a sen­
timental favorite. He's a popular 
actor who's been nominated six 
times and never won. None the 
less, Newman's political views 
have won him his share ofenemies 
in the Charlton Heston Hollywood 
crowd. It's prevented him from 
winning Oscars before and it'll probably do it again. Jack Lemmon is lionized by the Holywood band -he'd get nominated for his part in Santa Claus Conquers the Mar· tians, but I have to discount him too. 
I think it's going to come down to either Ben Kingsley or Dustin Hoffman. I know Kingsley's already won a couple of awards for his work in Gandbi, but I'm going to go with Hoffman. He was the cen­terpiece ofTootsie. It was a very good film because of Hoffman. made it work. The energy tensity of his performance riveting. Ben Kingsley might favorite at this time, but I thi .. .,ptouN if the voters took the time to amine both performances, would have seen what H put into Tootsie and they'd that Kingsley relied too much appearance and make-up. 
Dennis: That's an interesting point you bring up. We have two performances here that rely heavi­ly on make-up. With Hoffman, the make-up is a tool, just a part ofhis performance. In Kingsley's case, you're right -;-he relied too heavi-. 
lyon it. He wanted so much to be Gandhi that he smothered the soul ofhis own performance. Not to deny his good performance, but let's face it, he's got a lot ofcom­petition. The Best Actor race is surely the most interestingofthem all. Jack Lemmon's performance in Missing might easily be the best of 
his career. Unfortunately, it was released so long ago it's been for­gotten. Also, it's the political sort of t11m that Hollywood doesn't par­ticularly go ape over. 
I'm going to go with Paul man, partly because it's ~9u'ttll he got one, but mostly deserves it. Tbe greatest motion pictlire the script was aver-at 
Newman ~ ...p~, •• ....,;.,.•• 
ficulties. 
Best Actress: 
Dennis: Here's a definite. Meryl 

The Observer Features Section 
. ~ 
Friday, AprilS, 1983-page 9 

ick mulligan Ire  
Streep, because the other choices are so poor and because her per­formance in Sophie's Choice is so excellent. I don't care that she won the Oscar just a few years ago. She deserves another. This is just evidence ofthe scardty ofgreat actresses working today. Patrick: There's no question;  

.The Obsetvet' s Oscar picks 
vote against Gandhi, you vote against Attenborough's soul. A vote against E. T. is a vote against a 
wristwatch or bubblegum card. 

Patrick: The sentiment is definitely with Attenborough. The direction in Gandhi was adequate at best, but in this case, you're doing the life ofGandhi and that's probably enough. At times, it verged on the melodramatic. Still, it's an epic, complete with sweep and grandeur. Everyone has been impressed with the sheer immen· sity ofthe production. A historical 
drama like this is not easy to 
handle. You've got to give Atten· 
borough credit for the good job he 
did. 
Dennis: True. Gandhi's is a dif­

ficult life to portray on the screen 
and I don't know ifAttenborough 
succeeded in all aspects. Still, with 
a story like that, if you succeed in 
three-quarters of the material 
you're doing, you've got a great 
t1lm. 
I'm going to go with Spielberg. 
Hollywood's been throwing 
nominations at him ever since jaws. E. T. is a film that best represents Spielberg as author and ifthe Academy is looking to give· him the Oscar for his efforts, there's no better time than the present. We have all that is Spiel· berg in this motion picture: his manipulative skills, his dreamer's vision, his playful camerawork and Disneyesque style. E.T. is Spiel­berg's most mature work to date and I think it's enough to get him out of the "always a bridesmaid" syndrome. 

Best Picture: 

Dennis: I really don't think that The Verdict should have been nominated in the first place. It's not a strong tllm. That's why I picked Newman in the first place. His performance is the only thing that prevented the film from being simply average. Tootsie is a good tllm that stands a decent chance of winning. I wouldn't put my money on it becau~e it's a comedy and thus a "little" film. I liked Missing very much. hut I don't see how it can win. 
Although it will undeniably win. I can't pick Gmulhi because of what it lacked in terms offilmmak­ing. What the producers were seeking to make was a tllm that would document the life ofGandhi in the same way that a guy with a Streep has got it. It's really sad when you see that there are so few good roles for women. You can see that when you compare the Best Actor and Best Actress categories. 
Streep assiduously researched role and the work shows. 
is a modern tragic figure, moral ambivalence and istic yearnings. . nis: You've got to appreciate 

performance. think it's the best I've 

Best Director: 

Patrick: Sidney Lumet, no. He's directed much better t1lms and hasn't won. Wolfgang Peterson, I suppose if it were up to me I'd vote for his work onDas Boot, hut it's a German film. The nomination sticks out like a sore thumb; it seems like a nominal gesture toward a critical success. 
As for 'iidney Pollack, Tootsie is a comedy and a w~aker effon in terms ofdirection; it's not an espe­cially innovative tllm. Spielberg has a chance ofwinning but there's a lot ofsentiment against him in the press right now. Indian direc­tor Sajaiyet Ray is suing him for plagiarism. It's going to hurt him. 
Dennis: Everyone and his is suing Spielberg for . The press was spread· rumor that.John Sayles did a 
...'li~lliio;iellilel'*'s company evcor put pen-While we're on the ld point out that to make a big dit~ the Best Picture 
t and people are 

of it. In the meantime. the guys hypingGantlbi have real­ly made it into a world event, At· tenborough spending twenty or thirty y~ars on the project If you Panavision camera following the man would have. The movie had the dynamism ofthe main charac­ter but denied itselfthe dynamism of the motion picture. It is A-B-C film making. 
E. T. will take the honors in this category. It's a film that has swept the country off its feet and I think America is ready to embrace the -l sort offilm it does best: stylish es· • capism. I think a lot ofpeople have missed the depth this film has. It's got a good grip on American culture. Despite the bad publicity, 
this is one award that can't be 
denied. 
Patrick: I think this was a very poor year tor the Best Picture category. There's nothing on this list that's going to make a deep im· pression in years to come. Other years have had Chinatown, The Godfather, andBarry• Lyndon run­ning head to head. This year, it's a weak category. 
I have to disagree with you on E.T.. America is not ready to embrace escapism as its highest art form. It was too playful tor its own good, a mystical slice-of-life mm that side-stepped any important statements it could have made. The Academy will be looking for a serious statement. Tootsie is in the same boat. It's a tine tllm but it's a comedy and will have less ofa chance with the more serious­minded members of the elec­torate. 
Missing was a marvellous tllm, but it may have overstepped its limits. The tone is articulately un­American; this isn't going to go over too well with the Hollywood crowd. The Verdict is a decent movie, but it lacks the polish and high-mindedness ofa great tllm. As we've already said, it shouldn't have been nominated in the tlrst place. I was quite surprised to see the omission ofSophie's Choice from the nominees. 
Despite the tllm's perfunctory narrative approach, Gandhi has enough technical grandeur to pull in enough votes for Best Picture. The tilm is an event in itself. It's overwhelming. The very fact that it's about Gandhi is going to do it. It's the serious sort of film -done with lavish production -to which Hollywood tends to give awards. 
Denni~: Then we're hoth 
looking for a director/111m sweep? 
Patrick: Detinitely. Atten· 
borough and Gandhi. 
Dennis: And I guess rll he going 
with Spielherg ;md E..{.. 

•THEATRE 

Washington Hall and Lafortune Student Center may be more than a stone's throw from the Great White Way, but the stages of these hallowed buildings will feature two theatrical performances this weekend that could well deserve mention on a Broadway marquis. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. the men ofSt. Edward's Hall bring "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" to Washington Hall. Ad­mission to this dramatic study ofa mental institution and one patient in particular is S1. Tickets can be obtained in the Student Union Oftke and from St. Ed's members. 
On the same nights, next door, in Chautauqua, Cavanaugh's domers pertorm the play," Harvey." This "story ofa man and his rab­bit" begins at 8 p.m. and admission is free. 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre puts in more than its two cents this weekend also. "As I Lay Dying" cominues its run in the Little Theatre tonight and Saturday night. Tickets, obtainable at the door, are S2. 50 for students and S3.50 for adults for these 9 p.m. per­formances. 
Ifthe campus scene is getting to be too much, the fair city ofSouth Bend is not lacking in theatrical performances for those that wish to venture beyond the shadow of the dome. The South Bend Civic Theatre presents "Morning's At Seven" tonight, Saturday and Sunday nights at the Firehouse Theatre. Curtain time is H:30 p.m. Ticket in· formation is available by calling 233-06H3 or 23-!·5696. Reserva· tions are advised. 
•MUSIC 

Culture seems to he the focus of this weekend's er.t.:rtainment schedule. Making its contribution is the Notre Dame Department of Music's presentation of the opera "Ariadne aufNaxos" tonight and tomorrow evening at H p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Although not as elaborate as the Notre Dame Opera, Loretta Bar· rett's student piano recital oilers still another musical, as well as en­tertaining option for those who are seeking such activities. Barrett will tickle the ivories in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre Saturday at 8 
p.m. Enjoy the recital and stick around for "As I Lay Dying." A double feature awaits all at the Little Theatre Saturday night. 
•ART 

For those who prefer a more material form ofart, this weekend the 
Snite Museum ofArt will he openinga photography exhibit. "Lewis 
Hine: Human Documents" will be shown on Sunday in the museum's 
Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery from I p.m. to 4p.m. 
•MOVIES 

Friday and Saturday see the conclusion ofwar week at the movies. 
Tonight the World War ll tlick "The Guns ofNavarone" lights up the 
Engineering Auditorium's screen. The week climaxes on Saturday 
with Francis Ford Coppola's "Apocalypse Now." All performances 
are at 7 and I 0: I 5 p.m. Admission is, as usual, SI. 
"Confidence," the Friday Night Film Series selection for tonight 
does not completely escape from the violence ofwar: hut it does add 
another dimension to the silver screen. A Hungarian production of 
Istvan Szabo, "Contldence" concerns cwo fugitives who are given 
false identitiesas husband and wife by the resistace in order to evade 
the Nazis. Within this icy environment, the two fugitives tall in love 
and experience a total, consuming, incandescent passion. The film 
will roll at "':30 p.m. and admission is S2. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
As South Bend acknowledges springtime, runners are taking to the 
trails in full torce. Various local merchant~ are sp,msoring an 
ISOmetric Run to benetlt the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra. 
Whether you are a competitor, snail, or weak ofknee the ISOmetric 
Run provides an opportunity for all to enjoy the weather, tune their 
bodies, and support the Orchestral tunes oflndianapolis. Avariety of 
music will help carry the runners along their course. The Run may 
not take place until April 2 3; however, an 58 registration fee must be 
postmarked hy April I 0. Thereafter it will he S 12 and can only be 
paid in person. Registration can be sent to: ISO I Attn: ISOmetric 
Run/ P.O. Box HH20"' Indianapolis, IN 46208. For more information, 
contact the Features Department ofThe Observer. 
the ~eatuRes Oept. o~ 

15 holbmq a ffi€€tJnq roR all starr WRit€R5 anb all thOS€ Jnt€R€5t€b In WRltJnq 
monay, apRllll at 7 p.m. On th€ 3Rb 000R or lal=oRtUn€ 



~~()rtS=i=J=r=~=·e~.~~S======~======================F=rid=~='=Ap=ri=Is=,=I9=B3==~pa=ge=I=o
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
·...;rhe open handball ladder will be forming 
soon. Anyone interested in participating should contact joel Haling at 283-I794 before Monday. -The Observer. 
Women's Bookstore basketballwill hold a 
mandatory meeting for all captains on Sunday, April 10 at 4 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Games will start on Monday. Ifyou have any questions, call Kendra Erven at 283-6885. -The Observer. 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Club wm hold a ride 
tomorrow at I :30 p.rri. Members should meet at the Lyons basketball courts. -The Observer 
An Tostal Golf Tournament signups will be 
Tuesday from 6-8 p.m. on the main floor of LaFortune. Two-person 
teams will sign up for tee times for the nine-hole scramble tourney 
which will be on Tuesday ofAn Tostal. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Women's Golf Team is hos· 
ting the I983 Lady Irish Spring Invitational this weekend on the Burke Memorial. The Universities of Evansville, Wisconsin, and Wisconsin-Whitewater are attending. Tee offs are 10 a.m. on Satur­day and 9 a.m. on Sunday. -The Observer 
An Tostal Ultimate Frisbeesignups will be held Monday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the South Alcove of LaFortune. Team captains should come prepared with a team name, a roster of at least six people and no more than 10 members per team. Captains should also bring a 53 registration fee. The tournament will start later in the week. -The Observer 
Holy Cross Hall Softball Weekend is 
scheduled to begin on April I5 and will run through April I7. Cap· tains are reminded to call Ed Cunningham at 283-3176 if they have any questions about the tournament. -The Observer 
WaterPolotournament continues this week in the Rockne Memorial pool. Captains are reminded that their S5 fee must be paid or your team will not be allowed in the pool. Money can be placed in an envelope with the team name, and brought to 348 Farley. -The 
Observer. 
AUGUSTA, Ga. (AP)-Ray Floyd 
shouldered his way into a tie 
Thursday for the first round lead in 
the 47th Masters golf tournament 
Thursday. 
Floyd's 7-foot birdie putt finished 
offa 5-under-par 67 that put him in a 
share of the top spot with jack Ren­
ner and Dr. Gil Morgan, the non­
practicing optometrist who won the 
first two tournaments ofthe season. 
But the day belonged to Arnold 
Palmer, that much-loved 53-year 
man who won the first of his four 
Masters crowns a quarter-century ago. 
Cheered on by an enthusiastic gallery of thousands, slipping and sliding in joyous abandon over the rain-slickened rolling hills of the Augusta National Golf Club course, Arnold scrambled in and out of trouble, found a ditch and nit a tree and still produced a68 that left him a single stroke offthe pace. 
Tied with him at 68 were 2I-year­old amateur Jim Hallet, J.C. Snead, former Masters champions Seve Bal­lesteros of Spain and 45-year-old Charles Coody, whose last official triumph came in this event in 1971. 
Defending titleholder Craig Stad­ler played the last seven holes five under to get in at 69. He was tied with Bruce Lietzke. 
Tom Watson, a one-time winner here and currently the holder of the 
U.S. and British Open titles, birdied the two back·nine par·5 holes to get in at 70. 
jack Nicklaus, five-time Masters winner and holder of a record 17 major professional titles, struggled to a 73 that left him six shots back. 
Tom Kite and Cal Peete were 
among the large group tied with 
Watson at 70. Lee Trevino shot 71. 
Hale Irwin, twice a U.S. Open cham­
pion, was at par 72. 
And Sam Snead, 70, made what he announced as his last Masters ap­pearance. Old Sam shot a 79 and said that was the end ofit. 
Arnie one back 
Floyd, Palmer set pace at Masters 
"I'm getting down the road," he said. "I'd have to shoot 68 tomorrow to make the cut (to qualify for the final two rounds of play) and I couldn't do that if they let me play only 15 holes." 
Floyd, winner of three tourna­ments in each ofthe last two seasons and playing some of his best golf at age 40, turned the front in 34 then three-putted the difficult I Oth for his only bogey ofthe day. 
• • • Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 16 

that the team with more talent does not always win. The Irish were ex­pected to go to Columbus and win 
without too much trouble. However, they proved to be their own worst enemy. 
"We killed them on face offs and ground balls," said O'Leary, "but they should keep stats on unforced errors because that's what our problem was. We killed ourselves with bad passing. We just couldn't control the ball and kept throwing it away. It was a faster-paced game and was pretty sloppy because we kept dropping passes. 
Freshman Tom Grote led the Irish offense in the losing cause, scoring twice and passing off for another. Justin Driscoll and Pace had two goals apiece, while joe Hart, Tracy Cotter, Pearsall, and Kevin Rooney 
each  contributed  one  tally.  Rob  
Simpson  started  in  the  goal  and  
stopp t ed I3 Buckeye shots.  

The talent did not show itself until Dan Pace scored the first of his two goals with four seconds remaining in the first quarter. The goal brought the Irish within four, 5-I, and began a hot streak that saw Notre Dame outscore Ohio State, 8-2, over the second and third quarters. 
O'Leary and his players will not have to wait too long to try to get back in the win column. Another MLA opponent, Mt. Union College, visits Cartier Field tomorrow at 
I:30. The Irish will try to improve on their 1-1 MLA record. 
"The goal was on a ball that was 
deflected or blocked. It bounced in 
front of the goal and people were 
kicking it around. It came out of the 
crowd and rolled across the crease 
to one of their players who was 
standing all alone." 
The scoring spurt put the Irish 
ahead, 8-7, at the end of the third 
period, but the Buckeyes fought 
back, scoring three of the next four 
goals to move back in the lead. But 
Steve Pearsall took a pass from Bob 
Carillo and tied the score at I 0-10 
with five minutes left in regulation 
time. Nobody could break the tie, 
however, and the game went into 
overtime. 
Notre Dame won the faceoff to 
start the extra period, and tried to 
set up a play on offense, but a bad 
pass turned the ball over to the 
Buckeyes. Freshman john Walsh was 
then whistled for an un­
sportsmanlike conduct penalty, 
giving Ohio State a one-man ad­
vantage. 
O'Leary is hoping that his team 
will get over its problems with in­
consistency as soon as possible. Al­
though the early-season loss makes 
the team's task harder, he is confi· 
dent that the problems will work 
themselves out as the young squad 
picks up game experience. 
"We know the team we played 
wasn't any better than us," O'Leary 
says." "We let them beat us. But we 
still hav~;:n't played a goodgame yet. 
We've just played good parts." 
Classified office hours: Notre Dame -9 
a.m. to 4:30p.m. Saint Mary's -noon to 3 p.m. Deadline for next-day service is 3 p.m. All ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. We reserve the right to edit objectionable 
material.




1Classifieds 
One helmety creature lost one jacket over GRAD STUDENT SEEKS SAME FOR 13""COLORTV WANTED: The Ark Is coming! the past weekend of festivities. It's a blue ROOMMATE·HICKORY 277-8534 AFTER 6 
NOTICES Extenor frame back packs. Oo you have 
and gray JAN SPORT coat and it"s not that VILLAGE.STARTING JUNE/CALL one you would like to sell? Maybe two or Get the Porn out of the hbranes! 
good. so I know you don't want to keep the FRED 239·5845. class trip ticket toFirst round three? Call Jeb, Jtm. or Ed at 864 t Thank . . . .. . . . . .. .... . 
!hang. Piease tf you·ve located tl. call283·
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082 anywhere UnHed flies. You can fly you 0: Is John Htnckley really gotng to be at 7443 or 239·6691 so the owner can A SUMMER JOB IN INDPLS MEANS I home and to somewhere else (Hawaii I) Keenan Sat. Ntte ? IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR THE AMERICAN OREAM: Scholasttc ts A: Sure. he and all kinds of Hero figures 
remain dry during those waist-deep pow­NEED TO RENT A ROOM FOR THE over the summer lor one cheap price. der runs. Reward very negotiable. SUMMER HELP ME OUT? LUCY #3433 Call Leon 6740. are!
$44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­look1ng lor talented sentor wnters and MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! 
································································ photographers who would like to get 
CALL(312)742-1142, EXT. 7316. FOUND: A Basketball at Stepan To clatm published in the upcomtng tssue. become There JS a Flond1an named fur balls who's call8629 
Wanted: Female Roommate for 83·84 at tnstantly famous. and live happtly ever af· 25 today He use to wear tutues when he Typtng ALL KINOS Campus Vtew Apts Non· Smoker please. TICKETS ter. Call the office at 239· 7569 or Jim at and hts ststers would play. At 25 that"s all 277 ·8534 after 6pm Call234·4250 after 1 1 00 p.m 1082. Oeadhne: Tuesday, 12 Apnl. beh1nd because now h1S enJoyments are of a different ktnd. Happy Btrthday Jeffy! 
Wanted GRADUATION TICKETS!! 
TYPING. Jackte Boggs. 684·8793. FOR RENT 82 NO graduate (current Northwestern Wtll Pay$$$ Call Oebbte PITISBURGH CLUB... ELECTIONS!
grad student) needs female roommate tn 272·9709. After 1 1 :00. Grace Hall Party Room. Fri Apr. 8.4·7pm ·To Mtke Kowttz· 
Huge discounts on all books at Pandora's Evanston IL anytime after May. Ideal for
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all Happy Birthday to the two of you!! 
dunng our Fnday Happy Hour 3:00 ·6:00 another grad student or anyone worktng
ultliltes tncluded June or Sept. Call 31 9· Thursday and Friday. April 7th and 8th. 
·Your AlterE GO· 

p.m. We·now carry hne art note cards. art tn Chtcago. Call Rent at (31 2) 864·8494 or 
322·8735 Pany BADIN FOODSALES wtll be OPEN from 
pnnts and much more. We're open (312) 492·5045. 
4:00 to 6:30. BOOKSTORE B·BALL ·MtkeK.·
PERSONALS
everydayoflheweek 937 So. Bend Ave. 

9{)2 N. NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS, 
HOURS! Any and all hungry spectators If you pass the test of manhood. onlyFULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE. 
ORIVING TO SENIOR FORMAL7 We 
are welcome. then can you be my roommate for next PITTSBURGH CLUB .ELECTIONS! GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON 
need a nde up and back. If you·re gotng up The Observer is always the Absur­
year!!!!!I ..>rae' Hall Party Room. Frt Apr a. 4·7pm HEAT. $335/MONTH 684·0933 (LOCAL 
on Saturday morntng. gtve us a call! Ttm derllll 
FIREBREAKS! FIREBREAKS! ·The Ftitptno Malta· (8631) or Joan (6983) CALL) 1nvJtat1on not extended to your ego. Hap­EARN $5000 thts summer painltng 
py B·Day!l! HOUSE· Furntshed. 1 mt from campus. 4 Cavanaugh Hall Presents 
Need someone capable of translattng houses in your hometown. Contact Place· 
bdrm. 2 bath 7 bdrm. 2 bath CALL 277· Japanese Jo enough techntcal docu· ment Office for more mfo and applicatiOn

II LOST/FOUND I 
HARVEY· 8 p.m. · Aprtl 7.8.9 

ments Wtll pay$15 per page and have 20 at Room 213. Adm Bldg
3461 Chautauqua Ballroom KATHLEEN· 
i or more pages to be translated. Call 237· HOW 00 YOU FINISH AN INCOM·
Free Admission LOST: 300 WATT KUSTOM FREE RENT · House stt for faculty mem· 2146. Oo you need a nde to BOSTON? Leavtng Oonattons will go to Andy Sowder Fund PLETE PICTURE OF A AMPLIFIER. REWARD IF RETURNEO. ber. summer. 31 9·322·8735 Pat on April 15 and returntng on April 19. Call QUARTERBACK? CONNECT THE DEFINITELY NO QUESTIONS ASKED. John at 1207. 
Smtny. Brad Barren. and Btll Beck. ODOTS. lOVE. I( P S HAPPYRIDERS to CLEVE area tomorrowREPLY TO JAY REIDY 23&-7668. 
BIRTHOAY

Good luck on MCAT"sl LAKE BURTMAN morn1ng~-See Tnbe's Home-opener!!! 
Love.
LOST· GOLD WATCH--WOMEN'S On 

WANTED Aprtl 12th 167 OILLON (X2) 
PtnetteRIDERS to CLEVE area tomorrowTue&day. April 5. between 11:15 and GLOBETROTIERS!
morntng··See Tnbe"s Home·opener!!l
12:30. I lost rt in etther room 119 Haggar 

APEX ROCKS SAT. APR9... 73Q. ACC!
·Pati1'8022 Mark Fenzl· Good luck on MCATs!
Hall. or en route to or in ·c-line··North WANTED TYPING Expenenced BE THERE!

Remember. though. that there ts always
dintng hall. If you·ve found tt. PLEASE caU secretary des1res any k1nd of typrng '"her 
desperately need nde to and from MIL· 611 LWW(X2)
the posstbtltty of hvtng m a ··plotless late
Leanne at 117753 or 118983. Reward of· home. $1.00 per page. Call Ltnda at 674· WAUKEE THIS WEEKEND please call technologtcal soctety of the new genre··fered for it"s return. Your attention regard· 5094. shetla 2911 complete wtth Montca Vtnt. calves.
tng thiS matter ts deeply appreciated! FOR SALE TO THE TOTAL BABF" 
newspapers from heaven and Valpoltcel· YOU.AE GREATt
R T JOERS to CLEVE area··see Tnbe·s APEX ROCKS Ia gaiore!
Lost· HP 32E calculalor somewhere tn the Home·Openert Leavtng Jomorrow morn. FROM fHE ENIIY OF THE CAMPus·· 
area of Emil hall on Tues. before Easter. It USED. OUT·OF·PRINT BOOKS APEX ROCKS FLANNER HALL PUB FRI means more tome than any mere case of CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED NITE FROM 1{) TIL 2 BE THERE! Ah. to be tn Elkhart wtth the blonde of my He's commg · ro a IN!ater near you: Tom (gasp!) Otel Pepst. If you've seen tl call DIRECTORS wanted for pr"ate Mtchtgan ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE chotce Marshalek. Ugha<l Man on Campus Ihe Load at 1 068!!! boys/g1rls summer camps sw1mmmg, ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY· Interested 1n working and hv1ng m C~pe 
1983. 

canoetng. satling. skung. sports. nflery. JEFFERSON INTERSECTION. Cod or Jersey th1s summer? We are Q What was lhe tttle of Marshall $50 REWARD!!! Daniel Hechler black archery. tennts. golf. crafts, camptng. looktng for others to help ftnd and share a MacLuhan·s best·seller tn the Yukon? CRAIGWATZ ,acket wtlh red inside. Lost in South Dining gymnastics. calligraphy. dramattcs. House for sale. Untverstty Hetghts. 3 summer apartment or house Call Martha A: :rhe Medtum ts the Moose·age. Best of luck tomorrow. Hall before Easter. Please call 277-2222. cheerleadtng. guttar. M Seeger. 1765 bedrooms. $12,000 total lmmedtate. 1151 4 or Ltbby and Nancy 12963 tf you It ts a dark day tndeed for the normal Well be wtth you NO QUESTIONS. Maple. Northfteld. IL 60093. Send detatls Terms 319·3228735. Pat have 1nfo. or are Interested folk Moose Control returns Love. M&O 
• H • 

<HOT"" 
--..-......~···--· ~ ........~...~-: 



~----~--~~~~--------~-,-------~-~­

The Observer '82 state champs 
NAIA Belles prepare for Earlham 
ByJUDY McNAMARA 
SaintMary's Sports Editor 
The 1982 Indiana state softball champions, have been preparing to defend their title this season in a new league. 
Saint Mary's is now a member of the National Association for Inter­collegiate Athletics. However, the Belles -will be competing against many of the same schools which they defeated last year on their way to the state championship of the 
now-defunct Association for Inter­collegiate Athletics for Women. It is the NAIA which has absorbed many ofthe refugees of the AlAW. 
Head Coach Scott .Beisel, 
however, is anticipating a tougher 
season this year. 
"Because the new league is open­
division (unlike the NCAA, there is 
no Division I-II-III structure), teams 
will be from larger schools and 
might be intimidating at first," Beisel 
warns. "But I'm confident the girls 
can handle it and do just as well as 
last year." 
The majority of the old AlAW's former Division I teams have joined the ranks of the NCAA. Many of the Division II and III teams, though, (Saint Mary's qualified as Division 
III) chose to join the NAIA. 
"We will be playing more former­Division II schools, but I will be hap­py to take a few losses to gain some experience", says Beisel. 
Returning for the 1983 season from last year's championship team are two players who received all­state honors. Senior pitcher Mary Bayless will be back on the mound for her final season as Saint Mary's 
• • . Kelley 
continuedfrom page 16 
"There is the possibility of having the backup center play quick tackle or possibly guard," says Coach Sel­mer. 
Doerger comments, "If I can help the team by changing positions, I would do it. I would like to play at center, but the team is the most im­portant element." 
If the depth charts remain as they now stand, Kelley would be the starting center with Doerger as the backup. This would result in a posi­tion change for Kelley, his third, and a possible change for Doerger. 
Also available for service at center are junior Robbie Finnigan and freshman Ken Cannella. Finnigan, 6­3, 231-pounds, has seen limited ac­tion with the varsity but has worked 
with the junior varstiy for two years. Cannella, a freshman is 6-4, 250­pounds, sat out last fall with a knee injury and will receive another year 
. ofeligibility. 
It is interesting to note the similarities between · Kelley and Doerger. Except for their age, the two players are very similar. They are of the same height, 6-5. Their weight is virtually the same with Kelley at 261-pounds and Doerger at 257-pounds. Both players missed their freshman campaigns due to in­juries, Kelley with a back injury and Doerger with a knee injury. 
Doerger comments, "As far as my knee is concerned, I feel fine. I feel more confident about its ability to take punishment. I am not anticipat­ing any problems with it." 
By the time the annual Blue-Gold game is played .in three weeks, the coaching staff should have a better idea as to who will start at center next fall. Be it Kelley or Doerger, each should see extensive playing time in 1983. 
IRISH ITEMS -The football team will have its first major scrimmage tomorrow. The scrimmage will start at 3:30p.m. and will be in the stadium. 
star hurler. Sophomore Trish Nolan 
will also return at shortstop. 
"We've got our work cut out for us in the new league," comments Nolan. "But we're working even harder to meet the new challange." 
The Saint Mary's squad will also be sporting five .300 hitters from last year's championship tournament. That should mean the Belles' offense will not be lacking for experience. 
Freshmen team members should 
also aid in strengthening the Belles 
hitting attack. 
"My rookies are all strong, power 
hitters", says Beisel. "They will more 
than make up for the seniors we lost 
from last year." 
The Belles have depth at every 
position this year, including the 
pitching staff. Saint Mary's veteran 
mound crew boasts three returning 
upperclassmen. 
Saint Mary's forte, however, has al­ways been defense and this season should prove to be no exception. 
"We're fundamentally more sound than we've ever been", com­ments Beisel. "I'm anticipating bet­ter base running as well as our customary aggressive fielding." 
Saint Mary's all-around improve­ment can be attributed to Beisel and the help provided by four players from the major women's fastpitch team he coaches each summer. The extra coaching has allowed each Belle to develop her game, and 

·-----------------------~
I I 

: Spanish Club 1 Tertulia 
I I I 

: Friday. April 8 
I 

1  in La Fortune·s South Alcove  1  
I  I  
II 'vengq pqrq hGbiGr con nosotros  I :  

1 YprqcticG_r el Grte de conversqcion •• 1 

L•••••••••••••••••••••••J 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre presents a Readers'Theatre production of WILLIAM FAULKNERs novel 
As IlilY. 




Dyind 

Special "Evening of Art" Tonight Only!! 7-9 Saint Mary's Senior Art Opening 9 pm AS I LAY DYING Tickets $1 at opening in Moreau Gallery 
weather permitting they could get offto one oftheir best starts ever. 
Two of the volunteer assistants, Sue Becker and Kelly Adelsperger, have played for Beisel nearly 10 years and have adopted his coaching philosophy. 
"It's been so nice to know that if one of the players should ask Kelly or Sue a question, they will give the same answer that I would give," says Beisel. "It gives me a lot of freedom to move around at practice and not worry about being everywhere at once." 
The Belles first three regular season games have been cancelled and have yet to be rescheduled. Their first action this year was the rain shortened contest with Notre Dame's club team last Monday. Saint Mary's will try to get a game in tomorrow when they travel to Earlham College. 
AN TOSTAL INNER TUBE WATER POLO 

Yesterday's Games Fightmg P~ranhas 66 9, S1mon and H1s .3 Aqua Rastas 8, F1ve Guys and Two Wet ChiCks 9 Fighting P~ranhas 17. SuNam,-s 0 
Far S1de vs. Bad Form, Double Forfeit 
Today' a Games The 3-B Tubes vs. Dutch Boy and the D1kes. 4·00 p.m D1ck Moby and the Whale vs. The Plungers. 4·30 p.m. Ogdensburg Otter Eaters vs. The Chrashers, 5 00 p.m. Z'Yarbles vs. N1ck1 s Gnarly, 5·30 p.m 
) I I 
: 
1 
I I I 

4 -Spm I 
I 

Golfer Craig Stadler is current~y one ofseveralyoung competing professionalgolfers who has watched the veterans break out to the ear~y lead in the 47th Masters GolfTournament. 

Applications are now available for May & August. Pick up in Student Activities Office, 1st floor LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Monday, April11. will be awarded on Tuesday, April12. 
NO FEE 

hniorBar 
G!} JUniOR fliGht at SeniOR~ Sat. apRil 9th 
€nJOY seeR specials ~oR a R€al tasteo~ nextyeaR. 
PR€ffi€0S unwmO rRom meatt€OSIOO BaR op€ns at 9:30 _ 
Applications are available for 
Senior Bar Staff 
Bartenders Bouncers and DJ's 
They cc , be picked up in the Student Ac ,vlties Office Apr_il7 &8 
• 
---___....... 
The Observer Friday, April 8, 1983 -page 12 

Capitals even with Islanders 

Attention COTH Majors &Intended Majors!!! 
Preregistration for ALL Majors and intended majors will take place in the loft of O'Shag Hall on Monday April11, Tuesday April12, & Wednesday April13. Please make an appointment with your advisor for counseling BEFORE registering for classes. 
N.D. Student Union presents 

Programs at/tome ProgramJ abroad 
D (her ZOO j!:raduate and undergraduate D Di)on. France-French 
courses 0 Leningrad. l".S.S.R.-Russian D Approaches to Teaching Writing 0 Oxford. England-Husiness D English as a Forei!(n Language Administration D Forensics Institute D (.)uito. Ecuador-Spanish D Government Internships D Fiesole. ItalY -Italian · D High School Programs 0 Trier. West.Germany-(;ermanD Intercultural Training D (;reece-Life and Thought
0 Interpretation and Translation in :\nc1ent Greece Institute D Language Courses 
Send more informarion:D Literary Criticism 
!\:arne __________
D Washington Laboratory 0 Writers Conference 
Address ---------­
Sessions • 
-------ZIP____
Pre-May 23-june 17 

First-june 7-July 9 Call (202) 625-M I 06 or mail to: 8-Week Cross Session-June 7-July 29 SSCE-(;eorgetown l"niversit\ 6-Week Cross Session-June 27-August 5 306 Intercultural Center Second-july I !-August 12 Washington. D.C. 20057 25 
G'ffltXtlflti'II l'11iursity is 1111 rqw/ opporhmifY/11/IirrNllitr flltion institutio11 in tmplo:rmrntand ailmwums. 
Big Ten warmup 



Tennis team to face Valpo 
By MARK B. JOHNSON 
!>ports Writer 
Finding themselves stitled by Big 
Ten competitiOn during Easter 
weekend action, Coach Tom Fallon 
and his men's tennis team now get a 
short reprieve as they put their I 3-8 
record on the line against three Mid­
American foes today and tomorrow 
in the Northern lllinois quadran­
gular before making-up a dual with 
Valparaiso on Sunday. 
Fallon expects a competitive 
weekend, as Northern lllinois, Wes­
tern lllinois, University ofWisconsin 
at Oshkosh and Valparaiso will give 
the Irish a small breather without ad­
versely affecting the team's level of 
competition. 
Northern lllinois usually finishes 
in the thick of the conference race, 
and along wih first-year opponent 
Western Illinois, they figure to give 
Fallon's squad a contest. As for Wis­
consin, the Irish pounded them 8-1 
in an earlier triangular at Marquette, 
and barring miracles, Sunday looks 
to be a repeat performance. 
After tomorrow's competition and a short stop back at campus, the Irish head to Valparaiso on Sunday without really knowing what to ex­pect. One would have to favor Notre Dame, but Fallon is taking nothing for granted. 
Thus far this season, senior No. 1 
singles player Mark McMahon stands 
at 11-1 0 after a slow start, but he 
now appears to be getting back into 
the swing of things. Sophomore 
Mike Gibbons boasts the team's best 
record at his No. 2 slot as he owns a 
15-6 slate. 
Playing No. 3, freshmen Joe Nel­ligan is holding his own at 9-11 while sophomore John Novatny has earned a 13-8 mark at the No. 4 spot. Alternating with freshman brother Doug, sophomore Tom Pratt carries a 6-6 record at his fifth slot while 
brother stands at 5-4. Junior Tim Noonan has provided some needed consistency lately, and he now main­tains a 13-6 slate. 

In doubles competition, Noonan and Novatny have played to a 9-10 mark in their No. I spot, while senior Paul Jdzik and McMahon have earned an I 1-5 slate at No. 2. Various combinations of Gibbons and the Pratt brothers have filled the third slot, as Gibbons-D. Pratt carry a 7-3 record, Gibbons-T. Pratt have a-2-3 record and the Pntt hrother• hoa<t a 3-0 mark. 
"Last weekend showed that we can play with teamsofthis (Big Ten) calibre, but we do not seem to be able to nail down the third sets," commented Fallon. 
This weekend gives the Irish an­other chance to do some nailing before returning to Big Ten com­petition next Tuesday at Northwes­tern. 


Rangers and Sabers up 2-0 in playoffs 
Associated Press 
The New York Islanders, Montreal Canadiens and Philadelphia Flyers, all among the elite in the National 
Hockey League, suffered home-ice upsets in opening-round Stanley Cup playoffgames last night. 
In other NHL playoff action, Bos­ton defeated Quebec 4-2; Chicago stopped St. Louis 7-2; Calgary beat 
Vancouver 5-3; Minnesota tripped Toronto 5-4 in overtime and Ed­monton edged Winnipeg 4-3. 
Bob Gould scored two goals, giving him four in two games, to lead the Capitals in their triumph over the Islanders. Gould broke a score­less duel at 13:36 of the second period, then struck again with 2:51 left in the third session. 
Goaltender Robert Sauve blocked 22 shots to register his second straight shutout and lead tight-
checking Buffalo over Montreal. Dale McCourt, Gilles Hamel and Mal 
Davis scored for the Sabres, who return to Buffalo for game three tomorrow night. 
Reijo Ruotsalainen's 40-foot goal at 6: 12 of the final period enabled the Rangers to edge the Flyers. The 
Flyers were winners of the Patrick Division title and the Rangers finished in fourth place, 26 points back. 

• . Shooters 
continued/rom page 16 
Irish forward Shari Matvey, who also plays on it, beat One 'Mo Time 21-18 as Matvey combined with Mike Sul­livan and Paul Mcintyre to pull down 35 rebounds. 
The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Su & Holi 
..\. 


C 'N G(}W?f;


~ldMLtA! 
J--1~! L~O~! 
SENIOR SPECIAL 
I -8 x I 0 Color Portrait 

Special $29.50 
2-l Billft>ld Color Prinb 

YES, WE HAVE Cops &Gowns "IN YOUR SCHOOL COLORS .. , TASSELS TOO!" 
rUVfcDonald Studio 
326 Lincoln Way West South Bend, Indiana 46601 Phone: 232-2003 
Mcintyre scored 12 of his team's 
21 points while Tbe Obseroer Sports 
Editor Mike Riccardi put up no shots 
for the winners. 
Assistant Coach Mary Murphy also 
plays for Shari's Darlings. 
One Mo' Time, incidentally, had 
three players who played on the on­
ly team ever to be shut out in the 
history of Bookstore. Under the 
name Five Guys Who Wanted to be Called Mo last year, the three went into the Bookstore record book. 
Debbi Hensley, another ·member of Mary D.'s squad last year, had no points but stole the ball six times, as her team, Four Big Men and a Ball Handler beat Team #420 by a 21-10 margin. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -Early 
contenders for The Hoosier Award, 
given to the tournament's worst 
shooter, are freshman Chris Walton, 
who shot 2-13; Jeff Hayes and his 
teammate Alan Perry, who both 
were 1-12;John Spalding, who hit 3­
12; Mike Kelly, who made only 4-15; 
and just about all of team #343 ... 
Commissioner Dziedzic made the 
following rule announcements: 
Rules not covered explicitly in the 
r t ule sheet are to be decided by the 
individual teams because the 
scorekeepers will not intervene. 
Also, when teams ignore the shirt 
rule, the team in violation must play 
skins. 
ATTENTION TAXPAYERS! . A new law requiring partial with­holding of taxes on interest and dividend 1ncome will take effect July 1, 1983. 
If you have an interest-earning 
account or receive dividend pay­ments, this Jaw will affect you! This is not a new tax. Like with­
holding on salary checks, it 
merely changP.s the way taxes 
are collected. 
Exemptions are available for older Americans, lower income individuals and those with small savings accounts. To see if you qualify, contact your bank, finan­cial institution or the Internal Revenue Service in your area. 
A pubkc sennce message !rom 
lhe Internal Revenue ServiCe 


_T_h_e_O_b_se_r_v_er----------------------------~Friday, AprilS, 1983 -page 13 
Bookstore 
Battles 


Continue 
Yest~'s Results Stepan 1 Good Ole Boys over II We Score by 6 Shan s Darlings over OneMo T1me by 3 Stalking The W1td over Team #240, 22-20 Tequ1la Whrte L1ghtmng Ill over 3 HICks. A ...by 10 
Stepan2  
We Can Beat You On The Court  over Short Trash  
by3  
Asptnn Man  over F1ve Dead  .by 15  

If You Can·t Beat Us over Can10a Star and Her 
Entourage t5 The Ch1cago Cubs of Bookstore over Team #143 by 15 
Stepan3 Team #t59 over Team #420 by 11 Team #404over Shuhsy·s Team bylorle11 Team #343 over Foul Ups by 12 5 Alternatives to Dave Popson over Team #239 by 14 
Stepan4 J 8 & Co over Bogen'sZeroesby 13 T A s over Ch1nky F1kptnos by 7 Team #504 over The Polack & H1s 4 Poles by 14 Team #249 over Team #122 by 11 
StepanS Th1s Year Were Not Go1ng to Lose to 4 Guys & a Girl over Joe Mama by 2 Team #409 over Group Nelson. Get Your Flat Head Out of Here by 3 The Smoking E s over Keenan Tumblers by 11 Mercury Morns & The Snowmen over Sophts· tocatoes by 8 
Stepan& 5 White Guys over Joe Sagan·s Team by 5 Chang's Gang over The Products by 14 M C 0.8 II over Team #243by4 That's A1ght We z Bad over Tumball A.C. by 12 
Bookstore9 Strapameyeron .over Team #474 by 7 4 Tylenols & a Cyanide over THOPUPS by 7 Clinton Core's Encore over The Icemen And The Brewmasters by 9 The Even Less Jacksonless Fwe over We Eat Meat On Fndays Plus 1 by 17 
Bookstore 1 o Middle Class Rastalanans over Team #483 by 11 Four Throats & A Real Dorner over Coast-To-Coast by6 Mrs Ts Pterog~es over F1zhall Frve by 15 Last Chance Express over Happy Team by 12 
Lyons 11 Flynn s Fabulous F1ve over SPOS 25-23 4 Jerks over Chns Needles & Four Other Guys Who Have Never by 17 Team #368over Fr George·s Moustache by 8 Pass1on & Romance & Commtes From Mars over Sharkey·s Mach1ne by 9 
Lyons 12 5 Good Reasons over Mr Inverse by 2 Team #372 over Polar Bear Club by 14 Slim Joe Gruber over Team#117 by 13 Joe Jakubik & 4 Other Guys over Team #123 by 
9 
Bookstore Tournament 
Today's Games 

Stepan 1 Team #88 v Pnncess Grace Dnv1ng Team (4 00) 4 Shots & a Keg v Endangered Feces (4 45) CnmeDoesn'IPay-Partllv BowWowWow(5.30) Wed Have a Real Name II We Had A Real Team v Btgger. Better. Smoother. Drunker. & Ou1cker Than Average (6 15) 
Stepan 2 The Combine Brothers And Assorted Mothers v 5 Jun1ors In More Ways Than One (4 00) The Aedwmgs v Mangled Baby Ducks Bleed Agam (4 45) Sopke s Cho1ce v Team #441 (5 30) 
5 Worms Tunneling v Freddte Brown & The Cru-Cial Turnovers (6 30) 
Stepan3 5 Guys That Like To v Team #62 (4 00) The Amatuers v G G & The So1lers (4 45) Pete s Blind S1sters v Were We Supposed To Have A Clever Name? (5 ·30) Team #342v Team #377(615) 
Stepan4 T ncker & The Doobers v Team # 71 (4 00) Team #433 v The No~Name Kids (4 45) Master G & The ApathetiCS v 3 Guys Who Hate The Other 2 (5.30) Eugene v Team #137 (6 15) 
Stepan5 The Garnty s v Team #77 (4 00) WBBS v The Carrots (4 45) 
Doug s Gunnersv Team #105(5 30) Team#215v Team#387(615) 
Stepan& Subhme Medtocre Frogs v Emte Keebler"s 5 Elves (4 00) Love. Skull. & The ChiCken Wmgs v Herschel Walker & The Polygraphs (4 45) The Tormentors v Brother Combo .(5 30) F1nal 512 Or Bust v Beethoven s F1ve (6 15) 
Bookstore9 The New Modern Heros Of Archttorture v The Ftve Dwarfs (400) Gimpys515No-Namesv G F (4 45) The Dynasty v F1ve Guys (5 30) Team #443v Kev1nOU1nn (615) 
Bookstore 10 The 5 Jerks Under 5 10 v SWISH (4 00) The English Beaters v G AnatiCs (4 45) Spleef v The Soc1al Retards (5 30) Void OtTalent v Silky & (6 15) 
Lyons 11 All The Pres Men v QUASZ (4 00) The A1rball 5 v No. We Have No F-Ball Players (4 45) Team #170v Team #304(530) New Lawn Transfer v Embarras~ng (6 15) 
Lyons12 Team #475 v Captam Snorkel (4 00) 4 Cool Guys & Kosse v Team #302 (4 45) McNe1l & The Crepetalions v Team #201 (5 30) Gentol Expressv Kansas Jack& The Tw1sters(6 15) 
s.turdey's Games No games scheduled 
Sunday s Games 

Stepan 1 F•eld Ed v The ChiCI<en That Crossed The Road (1200) 
Generic F1ve v. Fun Bunch F1ve ( 12 45) We're Cute v. The Fam11y (1·30) 81ldo·s Slashmarks v. Team #228 (2:15) Team #257 v I Should Have Ducked (3:00) Lumber Lobbers v. Doctor Bob (3 45) Grab A Sandw1ch v. The Bullish 8-Ball Brokers ( 4 30) Ch1co Escuela v. Immanuel .(5·15) Run & Gun v Team #274 (6·00) MUNG v. Team #135 (6'45) 
Stepan 2 Undecided v. 8th Floor Losers ( 12 00) Franc1s' Hotel LaSalle v Andropov & The Papal As­sass~ns (12'45) Danny Red & The Brunettes v. Four Basketball Players & .( 1 30) Team #230 v Team #250 (2·t5) Team #270 v No, But Senously, Where Are My Gloves. And Junk, For The Last T1me, Oermt (3·00) 
Team #51 v. Team #402 (3 45) Sons Of Thunder v. You Got To Get Real (4·30)' Herschel Walker & Four Other Compulstve Ltars v Hoopsters (5 15) F1ve G·s v. Dry Gnndes (6 00) 
Bad  Girls  Get Spanked  v Rousseau s Noble  
Savages (6·45)  
Stepan 3  

East Coast lnsh v The F1ve P1llars Of Zen ( 12 00) Hard To Beat v Team #128 ( 12 45) The 2-A Team v 22 PI (1·30) Team#234v Team#296(215) Team #270 v. Four Human Be1ngs .(3:00) 
B.O & The Bouncmg Balls v Acute SchiZOphrenia­
Paranoia Blues (3 45), H1gh F1ve v Spoofhounds Ill (4 30) B1p B1p B1p B1p B1p v. Team #107 (5 15) Showdown v Team #24t (6 00) Team#144v Pig8ag(645) 
Stepan 4 Skywalkers II v God·s Own Drunks (12:00) The Bleedmg Ax Wounds v. Token Res1stence 
(12 45) NEBOS IV v. The Four Ex-F1ve (1.30) Freedom Cranes v. Team i1'263 (2:15) The DetailS v. FOG Killer War P1gs (3 00) Short As .v Team #36 (3:45) Team i1'38 v. Four Lazy (4.30) Later Steady Ned W1ns ThiS T1me v. Make Believers (515) Team #226 v. Team #424 (6 00) Play At Your Own A1sk v. Team i1'236 (6:45) 
Stepan 5 Jerry's K1dS v WSNO Rad10 Clash ( 12:00) The Walsh Brothers v Boom Boom Mancmt (1245) Team #253 v F1ve Guys Who W1ll Box .( 1 30) PGNF In Stereo v Not Really ThiS Bad (2 15) The Cubs v Many Former Neurottc Pattents Now 
·Have Bnght Futures (3 00) 
B. Lube Ails v. Andy Cashman Is ABeaut1ful Person (3'45) 
John Shoe & The Sneakers v Bo Bo Jake ( 4 30) 5GuysNamedMoev Team#113(515) Where Are All v Team #426 (6·00) Young Doctors v. F1ve Guys Who Are Not 
Three Tremendous Tan Masters  .v. Team #136  
(645)  
Stepan&  
Team #90 v. Four 01me O~rs  (12·00)  
Pende)os v. The Parnellites ( 12c45)  

(130) But We Had A Good RecrUiting Year v. Team #370 (2.15) 
Team #225 v. The Chillie-Oillies (3:00) Team #21 v. Team #32 (3 45) LesterTThe M"olester-' Team #100 (4:30) No Game Scheduled (5 15) Navel L1nt v. Uncle Sidney & Aunt Silly Rev1s1ted (600) Mercury Morns Chose Coke Over Pepst v. Team 
#264 (6 45) 
Stepan 7 Orange Crush v. The Libyan Nalional Team (6:00) Have Some Coke & A Sm1le v. Ae1ls & 4 Guys (6:45) 
Stepan a A1ch Hunter & The Polish Nationals v Team #266 (600) S1r Gallaghad & H1s Sen1or Kmghts v 5 Guys Who Travel More Than Ted (6 45) 
Bookstore9 SWC v. Team #364 (3 00) A Wiley Vermm v Tall But White (3 45) The Creamers v Z1ggy Stardust .(4 30) 
Psyche Up For v. Team #490 (5 15) Team #149 v l<.r"g Syndrome (6 00) Bad To The Bone v. The Non-Dons (6:45) Bookstore 1 o 
Fly1ng Buttresses v. So We're Bad But Don't Wave . (3:00) Bootleggers v. Even Hungner Rats (3.45) Team #489 v Team #194 (4:30) Great Amencan Tube v. 4 Guys Who Can't Score (5:15) Team #278 v. Van1lla Wonders (6:00) Four Operators & D1ai-A-Joke (6'45) 
Lyons11 The Early A1sers v The Gels (12:00) We Need He1ght v. Team #285 (12:45) Team #392 v. We're Rude & You're Not (1 30) Cataclysm v Anel Sharon .(2 15) Bara Ray v Lex Brehoma (3:00) Beaucoup v l'he Swamp (3 45) Team#102v Team#407(430) Gil Thorpe's .v. 2 Farley CWs .(5.15) Team #48 v Slick's Dem1se .(6 00) John 0 & All Whitedust v. J Arthur & .(6.45) 
Lyons 12 43C-130. v. Team #283 (12·00) Buddhas .v 5GuysWhoCan't (12·45) Blum's Bums v. Jesse N1ck & The oc·s To Be (1 :30) Scooter's Shooters v. Team #398 (2·15) Team #469 v DGW II plus 2 (3·00) Show Me .v. The Problem W1th .(3:45) 
Floyd F1th1an·s v. Team #104 (4.30) Team#413v Team#9(515) The M1111ant P1gs v The H W School (6 00) Research v. Muldoon·s Mum (6·45) 

Haircut Shampoo Blowdry  
& Condition Reg. $15  
NOW $8.50 with coupon  
54533 Terrace Lane,  Haircut only $6 with coupof!  
South Bend (Across lrom Martin's on S.R. 23)  (Hair must be washed day of cut)  
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30  
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 SAT. 8:30-5:30  272·0312 277·1691 ($6 offer only applies to male patrons)  


r 
The Observer Friday, AprilS, 1983-page 14 





Valvano planning addition 
A lot of stuff builds up in a reporter's notebook over 
time. None of it is good enough to warrant a whole 
column. Bur none ofit should go unmentioned, either. 
Therefore ... 

Best quote to come out of the NCAA t1nals? Jim Val­vano. who's always good for a laugh: "My wife's preg· nant-well, she doesn't know it yet, hut she will be­and we're going to name the kid AI B. Querque." 
Best story to come out after the NCAA t1nals? Akeem Abdul Olajuwon, who was told he was too tall to play soccer in Nigeria, has been offered a try-out hy the NASL's Fort Lauderdale Strikers. 
You remember Don Reese, don't you? He was the guy who blew the whistle on NFL drug abuse to Sports Jt. /ustrated. Reese, who has dropped 40 pounds since entering prison -he's down to 270 -says he's lonesome. Only his wife visits him. Don't you want to just cry for him? 
Speaking ofgreat quotes, ex-Notre Dame star Luther 
Bradley, who set a pro football record with six intercep· 
tions in last week's Chicago Blitz game, had a classic: "I 
feel very fortunate to have been in the right place at the .right time." 
Kansas tired head basketball coach Ted Owens after 
19 years -and the rumor mill has not stopped since. 
Rumor No. I: Ex-Jayhawk and Celtic star JoJo White, 
one of Owen's assistants, will get the job. Rumor No.2: 
The man who got tired of the NBA and went to UCLA, 
then got tired of UCLA and went to the NBA -Larry 
Brown of the New Jersey Nets -will get the job. 
Rumor No. 3: Dean Smith, a Kansas alumnus, wants the 
challenge of rebuilding a program, and the big bucks 
he'd get to make the move, and will get the job. Finally, 
there's rumor No. 2-3a: Smith will go to his alma mater, 
Kansas -and Brown will return to his college, North 
Carolina. 

Where will that leaveJoJo White? 
Tim Kempton was a t1rst team Freshman All· American in the Basketball Weekzy poll. Irish recruits 
PittSBURGh ClUB €lect1ons 4Racehall paRty Room 
~Rtbay clpRtlS, 1983 
4pm -7pm 
R€~R€Shm€nts Will B€ S€RV€b 
"' u~rc r ·I"HE \-II'\I n·JJ;.f"\ 
C()ltvHIJNIICAIJII()N 1 ~----0 JlrlfAIJ~fc ............. ~ lfll2lii[)A\~ lflllL~\ ~l~ll2111t~ 
Istvan Szabo. Hungary color 104 m,n Hungar1an w1th English subt1t1es ADfl/8 Two fug111ves g•ven false •dent1t•es as husband and w1fe by lt'le res•stance 1n arder to evade the Naz1s W•lhtn tn•s rcy env•rorirnenl of
Confidence 

total paranota. tne film 15 also 1ntensely romantiC. as tne two lug111ves(1979) 
(who never Jearn each omers real names) !all .n love and exper1ence a total. consummg •ncandescent pass•on-romance w1lhout 1dent1t1es w1thout future. •n wh1ch every encounter could ue tl1e last 
Admission

Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum 
$2.-.oo.....,

... lr1() ~ Jltl3 ltllr 
COLLEy·s SPORTSWEAR 
1813 S.lronwood, South Bend 219·234·6149 
"Qualtiy work
~r~ 
team, special event, promotion, fraternity, or 
'"''"'"'"·"'' ,L. 
~ 
sorority." 

•Custom Screen Printing
' 

T-shirts, sweat shirts, award 
l 
jackets &caps 
Discounts on quantities 

..­
LW.W. 
Mish
LW.W. S.B. 
TTTII 
Rvrr 
-
a 

tN :1!
" 
&. 0 
<
.."" 0 
Ironwood
* Villa~
Sou 

Skip Desjardin 
~ports Editor Emeritus 
Scott flicks (6th team) and John Bowen ( 13th team) made the Prep All-American list in the same (llagazine. 
I hope Jimmy Pier~all gets another job. Someone that honest shouldn't be unemployed. Mayhe he could cut a .;leal to make a movie about the second half of his life. "Fear Strikes Out" was about his baseball career, and it starred Tony Perkins of "Psycho" fame. The new one could be "Truth Strikes Out." 
If you were a college basketball star, and you knew 
that after this year, the new NBA contract agreement .would limit you, and most other rookies, to a S75,000 annual salary, wouldn't you be thinking seriously about hardship? Say good-bye to Pat Ewing, Clyde Drexler, Michael Jordan, Sam Perkins and maybe Wayman Tisdale, to name just a few. While you're at it, say good­bye to the 1984 Olympic gold medal in basketball. 
How long do you give Hilly Martin in New York' For 
that matter, how long do yon give George Steinbrenner 
in New York? The latest rumor is that he'll sell the 
Yankees, buy the Cleveland Indians, and move them to Tampa. 
How's this? George tires Billy after a t1ve-game losing streak in July. George sells the Yankees after a 10-game losing streak in August. George buys the Indians after the season ends in October. George hires Billy as Tampa's new manager in November. 
I will pay very big money to watch Ted Williams play baseball if the Apple Company's Dream Team tour materializes this summer. The plan calls for a travelling band of old-timers to come to a city and take on the local heroes of the past. 
Welcome back, Frank LaGrotta. 
Invitation next 




0 'Sullivan urgespreparation 
By MAITJOHNSON But perhaps O'Sullivan has over Sports Writer simplit1ed the play ofhis team. Notre Dame is coming off an impressive ··Fourth place is better than tift h." Midwestern City Conference vic­Perhaps simply stated, hut truer tory over Valparaiso as they con· words were never spoken by head tinued their winning ways by golfcoach Noel O'Sullivan. capturing fourth place in a tourna-
ATTENTION FRESHmEN: Sign up for Sophomote Litetaty Festival chairman & executive committee in Student Union offices 

2nd floor Lafortune April 5-8 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for ND/SMC students (5 x 10 space $18.50 per month) 
CALL 259·0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka ~ecurity Patrol Checks 
t ~igl}ts oftltt<!Iastlt 
North Carolina State coach jim Valvano shown here after Mon­day night'sspectacularfinish against Houston bas become the Bob Hope of basketball coaches since winning the National Cham­pionship. 
ment which II teams competed. 

The marks tor the weekend, 9-3. 
coupled with the 14·3 record 
compiled while in Florida, lifted the 
team's overall mark for the spring to 
23-6. 
"Not a bad win-loss record,"' 
added O'Sullivan. "In fact !like it." 
Especially brilliant in the tourna­ment tor the Irish was junior Dave Pangraze, who led all Notre Dame scorers and tlnished sixth overall with a...,'!, tlve stroke~ behind leader Marty Storch of Louisville. 
Had the weather cooperated with the Irish schedule last weekend, the Irish might have fared better. Unfor­tunately, the intermittent showers dampened Notre Dame's traditional consistency and hindered their ef­fectiveness. 
"Lack of preparation left us dull 
and it showed in our scores," said 
O'Sullivan. O'Sullivan, however, 
did not fail to savor the outstanding 
showing in the tournament. 
Rounding out the held for the Irish were Frank Leyes ( 77 ); Craig Peters ( 78 ); Dave \1oorman (80 ); John O'Donovan (80 ); and Stoney Ferlmann (82 ). 
Garnering t1rst place in the 
tournament was host Ball State. 
They were followed by Wittenburg, 
Louisville, and Notre Dame. 

The Irish will travel to the Eagle 
Creek Country Club for the Indiana 
Invitational this weekend. For the 
Irish to maintain their current 
success, O'Sullivan says the players 
will have to be prepared. 

"Our start is good tor the spring, 
and the future looks bright," com· 
ments O'Sullivan. "We need some 
outstanding preparation for the In· 
diana Invitational this weekend." 

Another sign of the current wave 
of success is the naming of Dave 
Moorman as the Player of the Week 
in the Midwestern City Conference. 

Moorman, a junior. shot a 2-under 
par 69 last week to lead the Fighting 
Irish past Valparaiso. 




Ihe~rv~==~~~==========~===================== 



Weekend 
Friday, April 8, 1983 -page 15 
Bloom County 

HI. HONE.Y... CAN Y()J 5fScf. HA\.tN'T H<W IT {).1€ 'IE lff.T ':f1('f,-5WJNO 7 
Fate 
I DON'T KNOW WHAf 
TO DO WIT!! 11Y 1.1 Ft. :Z: 
DoN'T fHIN~ !' U.N LIV[ OUT510( fHf I.ANIIIf~ITY 
5£1"fiN4. 
I 



--~------------~ 
o/;. RACHa.' CHECK1HIS C»4€ em:..~carr CHIN...RINNY N05t~. 
AftW ZITS... 
NO CHE~T••. 
~t~
. .'>~ 
~ 

'0 -~ 
~ ~~ 


Berke Breathed 
26 "Otello," for one 
28 Swordsman 
32 Small lakes 35 Archltec· tural pier 37 London art gallery 
38 Skip 
39 German port 40 Small amount 41 Nocturnal insect 42 Fearor Good Hope 43 Discussion group 44 Firearm part 



Campus 
Friday, AprilS 
•3:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "Revenue I: A Con· tinuous System Model ofthe Indiana State Revenue System," Michael Radzicki, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Convection Through 

Phenomenalism: Insensible Corpuscle A Forlorn Skepticism," Prof Margaret D. Wilson, 202 CCE 

•4:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Chemistry ofTransi· tion Metal Complexes with Alylidene and Alkylidyne Groups Bridging Metal-Metal Bonds," Prof. F. Gorden A. Stone, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•7 
and 10:15 p.m. -Film, "The Guns of Navarone," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NDSU, Sl 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Confidence," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•s 
p.m. -Play, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," St. Ed's Theater, Washington Hall 

•s 
p.m. -ND/SMC Reader's Theatre, "As I Lay 


Porous  Media, Part 1,"  Dr.  C.  L  Tien,  356  
Fitzpatrick Hall,  
•3:30  p.m.  Lecture,  "Empiricistic  

Dying," Little Theatre Saturday, April9 
•s 
a.m.· 4 p.m. -Medical College Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium 

•II
:30 a.m. -Track, Midwest Catholic Cham· pionships, ACC Fieldhouse 

•I
:30 p.m. -Lacrosse, NO Men vs. Mt. Union College, Alumni Field 

•7 
p.m. -Chinese Association Film, "Good Morning, Taipei," Library Auditorium 

•7 
and IO:I5 p.m.-Film, "Apocalypse Now," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NDSU, S I 

•s
p.m. -Basketball, Harlem Globetrotters, ACC 

•s 
p.m. -Notre Dame Opera, "Ariadne auf Naxos," O'Laughlin Auditorium, S9 adults, S6 stu· dents 

•s 
p.m. -Play, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," St. Ed's Theatre, Washington Hall 

•s 
p.m. -ND/SMC Reader's Theatre, "As I Lay 


Dying," Little Theatre Sunday, April tO 
•I 
p.m. -Baseball, NO Men vs. DePaul, Jake Kline Field 

•I 
· 4 p.m. -Opening Art Exhibit, Lewis Hine: Human Documents in the Print, Drawing, and Photography, Snite Museum ofArt 

•s 
p.m -Notre Dame Opera, "Ariadn.e auf Naxos," O'Laughlin Auditorium, S9 adults, 56 stu· dents 


The Far Side 

'I 
.' 
('I'"OIIrCle FPi!lure~ l~tD 
• 




ACROSS 1 Scrooge word 
4 451 8 Tureen adjunct 13 Ancient 
kingdom 15 Chief 16 Sign up: 

var. 17 Others: Lat. 18 Swiss river 19 Gamut 20 Telephone 
connections 22 Count, for one 23 Monumental slabs 24 Vermont ski resort 
people to help plan next years events Call Laurene at S.U. for interview 239-6244 


:Z: :noT KNoW I WONT 8£ ~SL.f TO DEAL WIT'H THE RE:~L WoRLD. 
vJOW'_/ r OIDN'f r.NOW SEtN& A SfNIOf< COULD 
t.f so fbl.4~fi. 
\ 

The Daily Crossword 

© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 4/8/83 All Rights Reserved 

Student Union 
SOCIAL 
Commission needs •enthusiastic •responsible •fun 
I 


46 Register 48 Departed 50 Beardof 
grain 54 Old Roman 
garment 57 Prematurity 59 Island In 
theSundas 60 Relative of etc. 61 Greek 
letters 62 Cameup 63 Proofread· 
er'sword 
64 Notoften seen 65 Opposite 
of knock 66 European river 67 Superlative suffix 
DOWN 1 Outdoes 2 Apportion 3-Selassie 4 -longue 5 Faculty 
VIP 6 Household gods. 7 That Is: 
Lat. 8 "-forget" 9 Old salt 
10 Mild expletive 

11 Lieat 
ease 12 Robt.­14 George 
Eliot milieu 21 Washes 
against 25 Twinkling 
-eye 27 Hindu deity 29 First 
murderer 30 Diminutive ending 31 Angler's 
need 32 Mausoleum 33 God of love 34 Observance 38 Numerical 
suffix 39 Repeat 43 Beautiful 
woman 45 Wine 47 Loftier 49 Like some 
gardens 51 Bristles 52 Monarchs 53 Charm, for 
example 54 Gore 55 Beginner: 
var. 56 Melville opus 58 Breathing sound 
----.,.----.....~~---~-~....--~Ill--.:---.-.-....--.....~---..---~------r>.C---IE'"·~---...c--..--~--·,...~-..,~"""'......-----.--~~--·-~,._.."~----~--~-~--­
.. 

\t·-'11'.,. 
. ~:"·' 

.. . ·-,\ 'i '. -, ·~ 


.. -~ ~'-...... ,J.., 

Competition close 
Kelley, Doerger vie for center spot 
By TIM DOYLE surgery to repair ligaments, he who will start next fall. However, Sports Writer returned in I982 to play in two Kelley has the edge at this point due games. to his past experience at guard and 
In football, any offensive play As a senior at Cincinnati's LaSalle taclde. When you have a first strin­begins with the all-crucial snap from High School Doerger earned ger like Kelley, you never want to center. honorable mention honors on both put him on second string." 
This spring, junior Mike Kelley Adidas/Scholastic Coach and Coach Having two very talented athletes and sophomore Tom Doerger are & Athlete National High School Ath-at the same spot raises the possibility waging a battle for the starting cen­letic Coaches Association prep All-of a position change for the backup 
ter slot vacated by the graduation of America teams in 1980. center. 
two-year starter Mark Fischer. Head offensive line coach Carl 
Kelley, 6-5, 26I-pounds, boasts Selmer notes: "It is too early to say see KELLEY, page 11 considerable playing experience. Af­ter sitting out his entire freshman campaig..1 at Notre Dame with a back injury, he came on strong late in 
Notre Dame sweeps
I98I and started the final two games 
at left guard in place of Randy Ellis. 
Kelley then moved tn quick tackle in 

twinbill from Bethel
the fall of I982 where he started all I1 games in place of injured Mike 

By NEAL SMITH make the score 2-1. Greg]aun came 
Shiner. 

in relief to retire the next two bat­ters. Jaun ( 2-I) picked up the vic­Raising its record to 10' I2, the tory as a result ofTrudeau's winning 
Sports Writer 
Spring Football 

'83 hit.
Irish baseball team took a doubleheader from Bethel College, With a hit-batsman, a single. and a 3-2 and 7-2, yesterday at Jake Kline sacrifice fly, the Pilots took an early Field. I-0 lead in the second game. Doerger, 6-5, 257-pounds, lacks "I'm very, very pleased," com­However in the bottom of the the game experience of Kelley, but mented Notre Dame coach Larry second, the Irish got all the runs that is thought highly of by the Irish Gallo after the victories. "We've they would need for the game. 
coaching staff. Sidelined his fresh· won seven of the last eight, and I Following two walks and a single, man year because he needed knee think that means a heck of a lot to us leftfielder Casey Snyder hit a two right now." run single to centerfield off the In the first game, Notre Dame won pitcher's glove. Notre Dame was not once again while taking its last at­through however, as they added two bats of the game. more runs in the inning. The final 
The Irish entered the bottom half 
one the result of a two out double of the seventh trailing 2-I. After a steal. Phil Dingle came home from
Bostick, Kalina shine on Day Two 
pinch hit single by Mike Doming third to score the run, making it 4-I. 
and an error, rightfielder Mike The Irish made it 6-I in the fourthByJEFF BLUMB spurred his team, S.P.O.S., to an atro­to shoot a basketball, John Magill Trudeau came through with a one inning when first baseman Greg#-Sports Writer cious 2 3-107 shooting performance. missed all ten of his attempts from out triple to deep center field for the Hudas knocked in a run with a twoO'Malley turned many heads as he the field as his team, #7, was beaten winning hit. out triple. He later scored on a wildSecond day action of Bookstore made only 2 of 19 shots. by Sum Joe Gruber 21-8. 
Trudeau, who had knocked in pitch.
XII was marked by a number of "It was just a cold day," O'Malley There were a number of campus Notre Dame's earlier run, collected With a 7-1 lead, Irish starter Bill
notable shooting performances -said later. notables in action. Assistant Basket­all three RBls for the Irish. Before Stonikas ( 1-I) was removed. Bethel some outstanding, others quite dis---------------ball Coach Jim Baron's team, The hitting the triple, he was 2 for I 7 College picked up its last run on a 
Even-less Jacksonless Five, whipped
;~e~~:~:40tcamswereeliminated Bookstore -:xJ1. (.I I8) at the plate for the season. Dave Nadelny home run off of 
We Eat Meat on Fridays Plus I by a 
"I knew he (Trudeau) was going relieverJoe Dobosh. 
The most outstanding perfor--------------­21-4 score. Baron's team was hin · to hit the ball hard because we IRISH ITEMS -Before yester­mance of the day came from Grace dered only by Dave Duerson's 1-7 talked about the things he was doing day's game, the Irish were batting
Hall junior Willie Bostick, as he shot iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii shooting. 
wrong a little bit," remarked Gallo. .293 and had a 1.58 earned run14-17 in leading his team, Five Al­Duerson was a member of last "To think that his one swing of the average since returning from its 3-8 ternatives to Dave Popson, over S.P.O.S., by the way, lost to Flynn's year·~ Bookstore Champion, Full bat would win the game -naturally, trip south during spring break ...
Team #239 by a 2I·7 score. Fabulous Five 25-23 in one of the House, in addition to being a co­I'm not going to be a fortune teller Because of snow in Madison, Wis­A fine shooting day was also day's closer games. captain of the I982 Irish Football -no, I didn't think it would." conson, the Wisconsin University­turned in by grad student Ken Gus Herbert could only muster 1­squad. 
Bethel College, just a short dis­Notre Dame baseball game will beKalina, who shot 9-II as his team, 12 shooting, as Short Trash dropped Three members of the 1982-83 tance away in Mishawaka, broke a I· played at home Saturday at 1 :00 p.m. 
The Good Ole' Boys, beat Team a close 21-18 decision to We Can 
Irish women's basketball team also 
I tie in the top ofthe seventh. After a The doubleheader was scheduled to#4I9 by a 2I·I5 margin. Beat You on the Court ... at Stepan played yesterday. 
single and a sacrifice bunt, the Bet­be played in Wisconsin ... SundayBogen's Zeroes were the victims 2. Shari's Darlings, a team named for hel Pilots' number nine batter the Irish play host to the DePauwof freshman Dan Dressel's 10-12 Coast to Coast was hindered by see SHOOTERS, page 12 singled off of pitcher Brad Cross to Tigers in a doubleheader.
shooting as they fell to ).B. & Co. 21-track team member Ralph Caron's 0­
8. 9 shooting in a 21-I 5 loss to Four 
On the other side of the shooting Throats and a Real Domer. coin, Fisher Hall junior Pat O'Malley In another exhibition on how not 
Irish lacrosse team falls to Buckeyes 
By MIKE SULLIVAN into its second overtime game in a Assistant Sports Editor week. The loss to the Buckeyes was also The Notre Dame lacrosse team is the team's most crucial defeat of the starting to develop a problem. It young season, because Ohio State is
.. 
seems to be leaving its game in the a Midwest Lacrosse • Association locker room until the first quarter is team like Notre Dame. The loss will almost over. An II-I0 overtime loss go on the conference record, some· to Ohio State on Wednesday night is thing which O'Leary could do with­the latest example as the Irish fell be­out. hind 5-0 before getting things going. "When playing a I 0-game league 
schedule," he said, "you don't want "We've juM been lacking con­to lose early in the season. In the 
centration and intensity early in the past, the league champion -either game," said Irish coach Rich Ohio Wesleyan or Denison-would O'Leary. "We let them take us out lose only one game all season. so we early. And they (Ohio State) weren't can't really afford to lose too many anything spectacular. They were more games in the league." just OK." Wednesday's game also showed 


junior speedster Cas~· Snyder slides into New Orleans, La., continued his hot streak yester-
The five-goal deficit proved too 
second base during yesterday's doubleheader ac­dt~y when he knocked in two runs in the second 
much as the Notre Dame comeback 
tion against Bethel College. Snyder, a natiz•e of game as the Irish took a pairfrom the Pilots. 
see LACROSSE,page 16

fell one goal short, forcing the Irish 





