~~~~­
NFL Football -page 9 

VOL XVIII, NO. 27 tht: im.lt:pt:m.lt:nt studt:r:ll nt:wspaper scn·ing notrl dame and sailll mary's MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1983 

The return ofwarmer weather bas enabled students,Run in the sun such as thisjogger running around St. Mary's lake, to enjoy the outdoors once again. 

Roemer reaffirms ban on parties in K._ights of Columbus building 
By TOM MOWLE and JOHN 

NEBLO 
News Staff 
The Knights ofColumbus may not rent out its party space to campus organizations, Dean of Students James Roemer stated in a letter to Joe Anthony, grand knight of the Knights ofColumbus. 
The letter reaffirmed a policy es­tablished last year banning the serv­ing of alcohol in the Knights of Columbus building. K. ofC. officials said their policy, for insurance reasons, is not to rent the building to anyone. 
Anthony said "if anyone wants to use the building, they can join the K. of C." Their insurance only covers members ofthe Knights. 
Roemer's letter was written in 
response to a Student Senate resolu­

tion proposing that the K. of C. be . 
allowed to rent its party space to 
dorms and campus groups and or· 
ganizations, subject to certain 
guidelines. The resolution was 
needed, says its author, Senator 
Dave McAvoy, because several 
south quad dorms lack adequate 
party space. 
Anthony said he gave tacit ap­proval to the senate resolution on the day it was presented and agreed to "discuss the matter with Dean Roemer." Now, however, "He has 
written this letter taking the backbone out of the Student Senate resolution and threatening to take the building away from us." 
Roemer said his principle objec­
tion to using the building is the lack of supervision that has been a problem there for many years. He reminded students that "no one in the State of Indiana under 2 I may legally drink." The University nevertheless permits underage drinking, he said, because he feels "it is better to have it supervised on· campus, than to have unsupervised 
drinking off·campus." 
McAvoy noted that the senate's 
resolution specified several controls 
on the use of the K. of C. building, 
which he felt should make its use ac· 
ceptable to the administration. 
These controls included having "a 
member of the head staff, a faculty 
advisor, or the K. of C. chaplain" su­pervise all parties. Roemer doubted that adequate supervision could be provided. 
Other restraints included observ· ing parietals and HPC party guidelines, having ID checks to limit admittance to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students, and providing ad­vance notification to the dean ofstu­dents. 
McAvoy believes that members of 
the administration should be 
receptive to his proposal, especially 
if it is backed by the Campus Ufe 
Council, because "some adrninis­
tators feel the structure could be put 
to better use." He said Father John 
Van Wolvlear, vice president for stu­
dent affairs, would have the fmal say 
on the resolution. 
Anthony's reference to threats 
stems from a statement near the end 
ofRoemer's letter: "May I respectful­ly request the students in the Knights of Columbus to advise if they would be now willing to move from the building so that the Univer­
sity could develop this beautiful location into a non-alcohol center for all undergraduates." 
Student Body President Brian Cal­laghan said he doubts it would hap­pen because it would be difficult for the administration to remove the Knights from the campus. He added 
that the K. of C. "is not a very active group, and there are plenty of groups that could use the building better." 
Anthony disputes this claim, 
saying "we have the most members 
of any volunteer organization on 
campus ( 300-400 students), and we 
are also the richest." He cited 
several organizations that the K. of 
C. donates to, including Corvella House and a home for delinquent boys. Anthony commented, "If Roemer feels these activities are a waste, then I have to question where 
his priorities lie." 
The grand knight agrees that it may be difficult to remove the or­ganization from the site, because it has a 50-year lease on the building. While it is a university-owned build­ing, the K. ofC. pay for all insurance and maintenance. 
They also paid for the S250,000 renovations to the building when it was converted from a post office, and contributed S500,000 to a scholarship fund for minorities. 


See ROEMER, page 3 


Four thousand dollar deficit found; audit of '83~ An Tostal ordered 
ByDA\iiD SARPHIE overpriced," he maintained, "and Day EditorCbief we could have had the same turnout 
for another band that didn't cost an 
A full--scale internal audit of all arm and a leg." 1983 An Tostal records has been or­The lack of fmancial c0ntrol was dered by Director of Student Ac­not limited exclusively to the ·com­tivities James McDonnell. This mittee's concert scheduling, accord­action :sterns from a deficit of ing to Ver Berkrnoes. "I think there "between four and five thousand was a general happy-go-lucky at­dollars" from last year's annual titude of 'spend, spend, spend, be­spring festival. cause we're going to graduate,"' he 
The extent of the deficit was un­said. "Jay (Reidy) gave a carte covered earlier this fall when the blanche to us." check annually donated to Sister This contradicts a claim by Reidy Marita's Primary Day School from that over 90 percent of the checks the Ugly Man on Campus (UMOC) had already been filled in by the time contest receipts never reached the they were signed by himself and the school. Further invesigation An Tostal Comptroller, Jane Ben­revealed that the activity had gone -nett. "For expenses over SlOO, we over budget and could not issue the sometimes gave the chairmen blank check on last year's account. checks," he said. "But for all ex-
Student Government officials penses under S50, we reimbursed finally issued the S 1 ,684 check on them after the purchases." Friday to representatives from the Bennett disagreed with Reidy's Day School. policy of distributing blank checks 
According to McDonnell, the Uni-for the more expensive purchases. "I versity's Internal Auditing Depart-don't think it allowed me enough ment annually examines the records control," she said. She noted that of various campus departments and part of the financial problem was activities. The An Tostal audit, caused by Reidy himself however, was unscheduled and "Sometimesjay and Mike (Perez, as­results directly from the deficit. "We sistant An Tostal chairman) weren't want to know how the event went responsible enough to remember over budget," McDonnell said. the totals on the blank checks they 
Jay Reidy, chairman of the 1983 themselves had written." An Tostal Committee, said that Bennett said that Reidy's problem much ofthe deficit was the result of stemmed from a lack ofcommunica­a $2.,0010 loss from the "Heatwave" tion. "Saint Mary's always con­concert, which was scheduled on an tributes a significant amount to An experimental basis last year. The Tostal, but Jay never really 1983 gr:!duate said that the commit-straightened out how much they tee had expected a turnout of ap-were to donate and where the proximately 3000 people for the money was to go. I also think that he show, 2000 more than actually at-should have had more communica­tended. tion with jim McDonnell." 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes, director of This concern was echoed by Ver publicity for An Tostal, disagreed Berkrnoes. "McDonnell didn't assert with Reidy, noting that the causes of any influence and was pretty inef­the financial difficulties were more fective in watching the money," he extensive than Reidy admits. "There said. was not a lot of obvious cost con-Ver Berkrnoes suggested that trois," he said, "and no emphasis on future An Tostal committees be re­budget." quired to stay within a certain 
'Ver Elerkmoes noted that the con-budget. "They should get someone 
cert could have been a success had in there who's concerned about 
the committee chosen a less-staying within a definite budget," he 
expensilve band. "The band was said. 

"IlK: Observer/Thorn 
julie Vormezeele, student body treasurer, left, presentsjohn Run­ger ofSister Marita's Primary Day School with a check for 11,684. The deficit in An Tostal funds described in the article above was 


r---------------------------------------------~---------~-~ 
Monday, October 3, 1983 -page 2
The Observer 
. 

In Brief 
Nicaragua's two rebel movements have in­
tensified the scope and frequency of attacks on army positions, carrying out air raids on the capital's airport and heavy assaults on border posts. The attacks caused more headlines than heavy damage but reflect a drive for rebel credibility and a shift from sporadic harassment ofNicaraguan troops to highly visible raids on important economic targets. Until recently, most of the fighting against Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government has been claimed by the Honduras-based Nicaraguan Democratic Force, a rightist-led move­ment that gets U.S. help. It may have as many as 10,000 troops in or near Nicaragua. But the Costa Rica-based Revolutionary Democratic Alliance, led by disenchanted former Sandinista leader Eden Pastora, did much of the fighting in September, overshadowing the Honduran-bascd rebels for the first time. "We are a belligerent force, one the world now has to recognize and one the communist dic­tatorship now has to deal with," Pastora said recently at his jungle base inside Nicaragua. Pastora claims to have 3,700 armed troops in Nicaragua and says he could field thousands more if he could arm 
them. -AP 
A bomb exploded near the American and Algerian exposition stands at a trade fair ill Marseille, France Friday, killing one person and wounding 27 others, police said. Responsibility for the attack was claimed by a suspected Armenian terrorist organiza­tion, the Orly Group, in a telephone call to police. None of the casualties was identified, but officials said no Americans were believed among them. Police did not say who the terrorists were aiming at, and fire officials said the Swiss and Soviet exposition stands also were in the general area of the explosion. The Orly Group is believed to be a splinter group of the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia, which usually attacks Turkish officials or Turkish government and commercial targets. The Ar· menian t:xtremists say they are avenging the massacre of I. 5 million Armenians in Turkey in the early part ofthe century. -TheObserver 
An estinlated 8,000 people marched to the 
Soviet Embassy on Sunday to commemorate what organizers said 
was the "man-made" famine that killed seven million people in the 
Ukraine region of the Soviet Union 50 years ago. The crowd, which 
walked from the Washington Monument, heard one Soviet emigre, 
Andrij Bilyk, say that people may "finally understand the extent of 
Soviet evil" in light ofthe recent downing ofa Korean airliner by the 
Soviets. "The Russians killed their own people, and now they are 
killing Americans," said another emigre, Valentyn Moroz, referring 
to Korean Air Lines Flight 007, which was downed by the Soviets on 
Sept. 1 with 269 people aboard, including 61 Americans. "This 
march is in memory ofthe Americans as well as the Ukr;IiQiaqs,"§aid Moroz. Thc National Committee to Commemorate Genocide Vic­tims in Ukraine 19 32-33 sponsored the march as part ofa week-long series of events in remembrance of what they call the "forgotten holocaust." Most people in the gathering were ofUkrainian descent. Many wt·re elderly emigres from the Soviet Union, and some said they were survivors of the Ukrainian famine. "We have come here from more than c;o cities ...to remind the world that 50 years ago you (the Soviets) murdered seven million Ukrainians by purposely starving tht·m to death," said Orest Deychakiwsky, 27, at the gather­
i~. -The Obsen•er 

Of Interest . 
The Saint Mary's Nursing Department 

hl'ld its t·apping n:-remony at the Church of Loretto Friday evening. Tht· ceremony is a spt:cial momt·nt in a nurse's lift• because it sig­nifks that ~ht· has btTn accepted into the nursing program. In his homily, Father David Murphy said that these girls "spread the word of God through the service they offer to others." Colleen Flynn, t·hairman of the student capping committee, said the capping has two purposes. first, it means that a girl is accepted into the nursing program and i~ given tht• opportunity to do work in the hospital two days a week. The other purpose is symbolic. When a girl is capped, she makes a commiltmt·nr to devote her life to the sc·rvice ofothers. 
-The Obsen,er 

The L-5 Society will present an introductory slide show on the industrialization and colonization ofspace. The presentation will discuss the expansion of the space program and its possible benefits. The show will be tonight at 7 in LaFortune's Uttle Theater and is free. ,.... The Observer 

Weather · 
Partly sunny and warm Monday. High in mid 
to upper 80s. Partly cloudy and mild Monday night with a 40 percent chance for thundershowers. Low in upper 50s to around 60. Partly cloudy and mild Tuesday with a chance for thundershowers. High in low and mid 70s. 

Where's the tw-elfth person? 

Consistency. That seems to be what the Fighting Irish 
are lacking. But it is not the on-field consistency that 
worries me. It's the inconsistency in the stands and in 
front ofthe television sets. It's the Notre Dame tradition 
of the sixth person on the court, the twelfth person on 
the field, that needs some refurbishing. 
Nationally, we Domers are known to be some of the proudest and most supportive fans, of our school, our teams, and what they both represent. Having the home field advantage has always meant an even bigger obstacle for Irish opponents. I just hope that in recent weeks we haven't become an obstacle for ourselves. 
In West Lafayette, on Sept. 10, a glance in the direc­tion of the Purdue student section signified that the Boilermakers didn't have a chance. Here it was, their first home game ofthe season, July weather, and almost half of the seats had been vacated early in the second half. Our fans, on the other hand, were all over the place. 
Then came our home 
opener. Gerry and the team 
stormed out of the locker 
room and into the Spartans' 
endzone on their first drive. 
Whispers in the stands of a 
national chamvionship 
echoed louder than the 
And then they stumbled. A \ 
few turnovers, a sack or two, 
irregular playing and sud­
denly Michigan State was 
ahead, and stayed there. 
What impressed me more than either the Spartans' or the Irish's playing was the 
cheering and clapping and almost unwavering support for the unsteady Blair Kiel, the slippery-handed offense and the too penetrable defense. There were minutes when portions of the student section sat down. That was alarming, but everyone was on his or her feet 
before long and they stayed there through·to the Hail 
Mary pass which concluded the game. 
But the whispers ofchampionship died and the status of Gerry Faust's contract was questioned. The com­petence ofKiel was debated, too. 
And then the dome fell in: Miami ...national 
television ...20-0. The memory is nightmarish, for 
those that watched the game through to its ugly end, 
anyway. The next week on campus it was as if the Gold­
en Dome really had caved in. Observing the general at­
titude among the student body and in print, I'm 
surprised lynch mobs weren't formed. Talk of a new 
coach, a new quarterback, and another year resounded. 
With rumors ofa new starting quarterback (Was Kiel the sacrificial lamb?), the Irish flew off to Colorado to try and regain a little respect among the students. Steve 

······-·············-·················----···························································........-··········: 
_ The_Obs.eryer_ 

DOMER SIX 
Composition Editor... . ........... ).P. 1)'fJesetters. .... Michelle. Nick Neu·s lid/tor.... . ............... Tom Copy Editor....................... .. Marc· and Amy Sports Copy Editor.......................... Mike Editorials Layout........... ..................... Tom ND Da)' l.iditor..... ...................... Tom. Dave Photographer................................. ..... Thom Guest Appearun<·es ..... No correction rih­hon. a hunch of drunks. no pizza, a 
would-he-working features honcho 
and a hrutal ax murdt:'r of an inside 
column. 
Quote oftbe Day 
''You and me babe . . How 'bout II?" 
-Dire Straits 
The ObMrVer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. e~cept dunng e~am and vacation penods. The ObMrver is published by the students of N,oJrp ,DA,_n;Je. and Saont Mary s College Subscnploons may be pu,rchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnhng The Obeerver. P 0 Bo~ Q. Notre Dame. lndoana 46556 
The ObMrver os a member of The Anocl.ted PntM. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 

Six Mile Run Saturday, October 8 Race begins at 10 a.m. Deadline for entries Oct. 6th 
Trophies Awarded to 1st Place in each category T-Shirts to all Finishers · $2.00 Entry Fee Runners should pick up numbers by 9:45a.m. Where: Course is entirely on the Notre Dame campus­utilizing golf course, lakes, and roads. Race begins and ends at University Garage 
(old Credit Union) 
Name---------------­
Address-­ - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Phone-­ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Categories:  
Undergraduate Male ... ::.. Graduate Male ......  Undergraduate Female·· ... Graduate Female··· ......  



F::::~:~~~b:·~ .wm·l·----· 
···················-····--··················----·---·--·..····-·---4 
Beuerlein appeared calm, poised and for the most part, smo'Jth. His offensive line was a wall. The running backs literally ran the show and the defense held when it had to. They really "kicked some ..." as the South Bend Tribune reported. 
But still people studied or slept or flipped the chan­nel. Where is that twelfth person? Fan support seems to be as incongruous as the Irish's season to date. Is win­ning the only incentive for student support? 
When NO students sit during a home game, study during an away game, unfurl "Oust Faust" banners, and grumble for a whole week I wonder what does motivate them. 
The national champion­ship is a definite goal ofcol­lege football, and the winning tradition at Notre Dame does inspire a great deal ofour endowmenl, and it is easier to jump and scream at a 52-6 victory. But these are not the only reasons for college football. Especially here, they should not be. College football players are on the field at least partially because of pride in their university. Fans should be there for the 

same reason. 
It may sound high and mighty but collegiate athletics are designed to strengthen character and bodies, provide entertainment for participants and specta•ors alike and encourage healthy competition. 
The way that NO supports and thrives on its football team is fantastic, but perspective has got to be retained and the cheering must be for the team, not the win. Usually we stay right behind our teams to the end, whether bitter or sweet. But this season we've got to work to keep that twelfth person off the bench. 
Observer note._------. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the 
views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the 
views ofthe editorial board or staff. 

Monday, October 3, 1983 -page 3 
Storms batter nation; nine dead in Arizona 

Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. -Floodwaters up to eight feet deep surged yesterday through hundreds of homes in southern Arizona, closing highways and bridges, forcing thousands to 
evacuate and leaving nine people dead or missing. 
In other areas of the country, record-breaking storms pounded the California coast with rain Friday, dousing power to more than 27,000 customers and snarling traffic, but Tropical Storm Dean sputtered 
ashore in Virginia and broke apan 
without causing major damage. 
· In the Pacific, meanwhile, Tropi­
cal Storm Narda moved away from 
the Hawaiian Islands after forcing 
the evacuation of nine families in a 
low-lying area 
Among the victims in the series of 
Arizona desen storms which began 
last week, were two helicopter 
crewmen killed In a crash during a 
rescue mission yesterday for a mot­
her and baby. 
More rain pelted the state yester­
day, the day after helicopters 
plucked stranded residents from 
rooftops in Tucson and the hard-hit 
mining town ofClifton. 
Gov. Bruce Babbitt, who has 
declared a statewide emergency, 
flew over southern Arizona yester­
day to survey the swirlingwaters. He 
said the devastation was "incredible 
. . . the worst damage I've ever 
seen." 
Damage to roads and highways 
alone was estimated at S10 million 
to S12 million in the Tucson area, 
said Pima County Emergency 
Services Director Richard Casanova 
In Marana, a community ofabout 
3,500 residents some 30 miles 
.I I 
nonhwest of Tucson, about 200 people lined Interstate 10 awaiting emergency shuttle transpon after being driven from their homes by the flooded Santa Cruz River. 
Babbitt estimated that at least 1,000 houses were under water at Marana 
"The Yaqui Indian village ofadobe homes in Marana was literally dis­solved by rains and flooding," Bab­bitt said. 
On the Atlantic Coast, Dean's 60 mph winds ate away at beaches in Nonh Carolina as the storm moved up the coast on Thursday. But the winds quickly dwindled Friday as the storm crossed Virginia's Eastern Shore and pushed up Chesapeake 
Bay. 

Gale warnings were discontinued along the East Coast from Nonh Carolina to Rhode Island. 
Winds whipped a fire in Ocean 
View, Va.; a few families evacuated 
low-lying Willoughby Spit, near Nor­
folk, overnight; and waves compli­
cated the rescue of two fishermen 
whose 24-foot boat was snagged in 
its own net. The two were not 
injured. 
Although forecasters said erosion would be the major damage caused by the storm, even that was minimal. 
"I looked out the window this morning to see if any ofour hill was gone," said Betty Mason, who lives on a low rise above Willoughby Spit. "It's not." 
The storm caused less damage to 
the Virginia Beach reson strip than a 
fall nonheaster usually does, said Ar­
thur Gilben, assistant superinten­
dent of the city's erosion 
commission. 

Annanao·s Barber & Hair StyJe Shop 1437 North Ironwood Drive Sputh Bend, IN 
HOME OF TilE IRISH 
Four Stylists to Serve You Five minutes from cam us 
*********************************~ 
* * 
* * 
* *
*an
* * 
* * 
* *
* campus ~, 
~ ministry ; 
* * 
* *
! ARE YOU INTERESTED IN: ; 
* *
* * 
~ Baptism? * 
* *
* Confirmation? * ~ Becoming a Catholic? ~ 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* ~ SACRAMENTAL PREPARATION * ~ 
~ Begins on ~ ~ Wednesday Evening, OCTOBER 5th ~ 
* *
* * 
; * Call Campus Ministry for Details * ~ * 239-5242 * 
* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
* ·tiiJD... * 
* * 
* *
* *
* * 
* * 
~********************************~ 
·;.\;-.._\.\_\,\\;_ "\'·\\'1 ·..-..,,. 
;-.;..:-. -·:-.:·..\. ~-:.':-~· ~-.~\\ 
.,,.,. ,,,,...,.,,~-~,, ....... ,~.·\,,.., ~.,.. ~~~ ..... .
.. 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTT 
NewsStaff 
Eleven students, operating as a class, will have the opponunity this semester to take pan in the publica­tion ofa literary work at theJuniper Press, a student owned and operated publishing company. 
The class, entering its eighth year, is the brainchild of Professor Elizabeth Christman, who was a literary agent in New York for more than 20 years. No other class of its kind is offered at any college or uni­versity in the country. 
The students are graded as employees in a company, yet exams are still given on the many facets of publishing. Christman says interest in the class has diminished in the last few years, possibly as a result of the novelty ofthis class wearing off. 
Each member of the class is as­signed various duties involved in the publication process. The students must form a contract with the author of the work chosen for publication, acquiring the publish­ing rights for one year. 

An initial investment by the stu­dents is needed to offset publication costs, wliiich run over 52,000. Juniper Press does not set out to make a profit; rather, it functions primarily as an educational en­deavor, exposing the students to all aspects ofpublishing. 
The class reviewed between eight to ten manuscripts this year. A two­act play by graduate student Micheal Varga, entitled "Payable Upon Return," was chosen for publication_ 
The autho.r will receive royalties on the book, and the students hope to recover their initial investments af­ter publication costs. "It's like investing in stock," said Ann Bar­tling, editor-in chiefofthe press. 
Althoug~ all types of manuscripts 
are submiltted, many are aimed at the 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity. 
"We want to choose something 
that we feel has literary quality," says 
Bartling. Nov. 9 is the tentative 
publication date, and the book 
should be available by the end of 

Wednesday, October 5, 1983 5:15p.m. Sacred Heart Churcl• 
Celerated by the Most Reverend Jos:eph R. Crowley, Auxiliary Bishop of the Dlo-oese of Fort Wayne·South Bend 
Sponsored by the Thomas More Socelty of Notre Dame 
Burn's Creative Cos1tume Shop 
608 Liberty Drive, Mishawaka 
259-4807 Fulfill Your Wildest Fantasies \.Nith Our Costumes Birthday Cake Dancing Beer Cans Lepracauns 
Sequin Gowns Spiders Sequin Jackets Fly Bee 
I 
• • .Roemer 
continuedfrom page I 
According to Anthony, University

AND MANY MOR:E 
President Father Theodore Hes­
Student Discounts Stop in to Reserve 
burgh wrote to the K. of C. in 1967 which said in part, "Ifat some future date the University should require 
No Deposit with Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID 
HOURS: Mon.· Fri. 9:00am-5:00pm 
the use of the building, other
Sat. 9:00am -12:00 noon 
suitable and mutually agreeable quaners will be provided." Roemer said it is "up to the university of­ficers to negotiate with the K. ofC." 
Extended Hours for Halloween 

November or early December in 
bookstores. 
The best pan ofthe class "is when we first see the book we have labored over for several months," according to Christman. The stu­dents feel they benefit a great deal 
from actually publishing a book, in­stead of just studying the aspects of publication. Alot ofwork is involved outside of class, yet, as George Devenney, president of Juniper Press, says,"lt's challenging. I don't find it difficult because I enjoy it." 
East Race may bring kayaking 
By KEirn E. HARRISON 
News Staff 
International kayak racing may soon be coming to South Bend, says James Seitz, superintendent ofparks. 
The East Race Way development, according to Seitz, will be one offive Olympic-quality whitewater spons runs in the country. The run will be 1900 feet in length, and will feature a concrete bottom and man-made fiberglass boulders. It will also have a controlled water output, with a maximum of 1300 cubic feet of 
water per second. 
The East Race Way will start atJef­

ferson Street and run along the east 
bank of the St. Joseph river to near 
Madison Street. A century ago this 
was a canal which was used to 
power South Bend factories, but 
when the factories closed, the canal 
was filled in and forgotten. 
The construction of the East Race 

Way has cost $4.5 million, and has 
been financed by a S3.5 million park 
bond issue and a federal land grant. 
"We hope that the race will spur 

economic growth in the East Bank 
area ofSouth Bend," Seitz said. 
The East Race Way is scheduled to 

open June 30, 1984. It is not known 
yet ifthe facility will be open for the 
use of the public. 

Monday, October 3, 1983-page_4
The Observer 
,. 

The Obscrvc:r/Thom Bradley 

Beer number one! 
Even Moses celebrates when Notre Dame wins: "Number One Moses," a statue next to the library, holds up a beer can in his clenched fist. 

Ocrooer 3 (starts at 9 151 Summer Stock (19501 USA-MGM Otrected by Charles Walters B W 109 mrn A theatr+eal troupe lakes over a barn to rehearse a show and a farmgrrl (Judy Gafland) gels caught up m the lttver ol show busrness Romance between theatre tmpresano Gene Kelly and Garland drssolves the rnllral opposrhon between work and entertamment 
Admission

Annen berg Aud.,SniteMuseum $ 2. o o 
T t() ~ I t(3/ti·lr--....., 
Druse council to govern province 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Druse leader Walid Jumblatt set up a council to administer Chouf province, and an adviser to President Amin Gemayel yesterday accused Jumblatt's Syrian 
backers of plotting to split Lebanon into separate states. 
Christian militiamen, meanwhile, freed about 200 Druse women and children after several weeks' cap­tivity. 
Jumblatt on Saturday announced he was forming an eight-man "civil administration committee" to run the day-to-day affairs of Chouf province "in the emergency cir­cumstances ...until the return of central government institutions." 
He told reporters in his Chouf 
mountain home at Mouktara that the 
committee would later act as a 
"pressure block" for the Druse in the 
central government's management 
of social, economic and ad-

Lebanon may still be election issue 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The 18-month authority voted by Congress for the Marines to remain in Lebanon was intended, in part, to keep the issue out of the 1984 election campaign, but it isn't likely to work out that way. 
Even though Senate Minority Leader Robert C. Byrd said his Democratic troops raised no par­tisan arguments against the deal with President Reagan, a persistent undercurrent ofpolitics ran through the f~mr days of congressional debate. 
The resolution moved ·through Congress to final approval on Thursday with unusual speed be­cause of the fast track required by law for action under the War Powers Act of1973. 

Reagan said he would sign it, but with reservations. This announce­ment already has drawn criticism, which could intensify when he ex­plains his reservations. 
Even with Reagan's signature, the measure may not be Congress' last word on the ~ ,600 Marines who have stationed in Beirut for more than one year as part of an interna­tional peacekeeping force. 
At any time during the next 18 months, Congress can take up anoth­er resolution to bring the troops home sooner, and the measure ministrative affairs. 
Farouk)aber, a political adviser to Gemayel, told reporters after emer­gency government meetings yester­day that Syria was using)umblatt to partition Lebanon into cantons, or separate states. 
"I believe there is an attempt to partition Lebanon on a canton basis," Jaber said. "The orction taken by Mr. Jumblatt falls in the long-term strategy ofthe Syrian government to extend its hegemony over parts of Lebanon." 
Gemayel met with Prime Minister Shafik Wazzan ancl former President Camille Chamoun, and Chamoun told reporters afterward that he too thought Jumblatt meant to divide Lebanon on the basis of"federal can­tons." 
"The most urgent question is 
whether this applies to the Chouf 
only or to all other Lebanese areas," 
he said. 
"This defies the resolutions of the 
would go to the House and Senate floors quickly. Such a proposal also would re· quire Reagan's signature, which 
means that if he opposed it, both houses would have to muster a two­thirds majority to override his veto. This would be a far greater margin than his opponents managed in either chamber this week. 
The vote followed party lines with only slight deviation. Only two of 45 Democrats broke party ranks in the Senate to join 52 Republicans in sup­port of the agreement struck by Reagan, Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. and Republican leaders of both 
houses. 
Islamic confederation (of Lebanese Moslem leaders), which said 'no to federation, no to confederation and no to partition,"' Chamoun said. 
"Those whom he announced as the administrative committee are 
true  sectarians  (with loyalties  to  
their  religious  sects  instead  of  
Lebanon)."  

The Christian Voice of Lebanon radio reported brief artillery ex­changes around the town ofBaasir in the southern Chouf mountains yes­terday, and Beirut Radio said gun­men kidnapped four internal security policemen and two employee!> of the state electricity company just south of Beirut air­port. 
All six were later released un­harmed after the abductors confiscated the weapons of the policemen and their two cars. The gunmen were not identified. 

Choc. Chip Cookies $1.29 doz. Marshmallow Krispies .45¢ <Jhocolate Cake Rolls ... $1.29 Large Croissant.. ... 40~ea. Chocolate Eclairs ..... 6o,'ea. 
r-------------------------~
Vienna Corn Beef 
$4.291b. 

Coupon Expires: 10/31/83 
t--------------------------i
I

Frito Lay Potato Chips All 314 pound bags 
15, off Coupon Expires:1 0/31/83 
Ir-------------------------1
I 2Liter Bottles 1 Tab, Sprite, Diet Coke 
I 
I 
I CoCa CoLa
I I 
I only$1.19
I 
I Coupon Expires: 10/10/83 
.__________________________~ 
I I 

LEnUCE SERVE YOU II! ''The Huddle Deli'' 
University Food Services 


Duncan Hines cake mix yellow... $1.29 
Orange Juice half gallon jug......... $1.69 
Nabisco Mr. Salty pretzels ..................... 99<I 
D"uncan Hines frosting choc. or white.$1.69 
Nabisco sociable crackers ... $1.25 
2/iter Btl. Tab, Sprite Diet Coke 
or CoCa CoLa 
$1.19 with coupon 

The Deli Hours: 
Monday-Friday 7:30am·11 :OOpm Saturday and Sunday 11:OOam-11 :OOpm 
Fresh Produce Daily Bananas .......... 201~ ea. Grapes ............ 99 i-lb. 

Washington Bartlett " PEARS .... 25 or 
Monday, October 3, 1983 -page 5 
The Observer 
Filipinos jog in yellow to remerrtber 'Ninoy' 
Associated Press day that claimed a communist rebel 
killed the opposition leader. 
MANILA, Philippines -Wearing "The government started to tie so yellow T-shirts with portraits of they're covering one lie after anoth-Benigno Aquino, about 300 Filipinos 
er. He (Marcos) has to producejogged three miles in a demonstra­
some persons to back up the lie. We tion against President Ferdinand E. 
know it was a plain and simpleMarcos yesterday, clapping, chant­
military operation ordered by per·ing and flashing hand signals to 
sons above," Butz Aquino said. 
"fight." 
He said "at least two witnessesButz Aquino, brother of the assas­saw one of the guards or escortssinated opposition leader, led the shoot Ninoy from behind," but thatjog, the first of a scheduled weekly the witnesses were scared andjaunt called "ROAR" -run for would not come out to testify "asAquino and for Resignation -a long as Marcos is around."
reference to mounting opposition 
calls for Marcos to quit. The brother 
The opposition leader was killed olccused the regime of shooting his 
at Manila airport Aug. 1 after return­brother, a charge the president has 
ing from three years' self-imposed denied. exile in the United States. His sup­Businessmen, students, office porters wore yellow and continue to 
employees and their relatives ran. 
do so as a sign of protest. The color They flashed "L" signs with thumb 
was popularized as a symbol by an and index finger, the first letter of 
American song in which a man jailed the Philippine word "Laban," which 
for three years asks his sweetheart to 
further details about the las test wave ofprotests in the 
means "Fight" and was also the name tie a yellow ribbon around an oak 
Phillipines, see article at left. 
ofAquino's political party. tree to show her love. 
Some of the t~affic policemen along the route flashed back the "L" sign. 
The atomosphere was festive as 
Investigation of triple homi«~ide continues 
the runners, in sneakers and shorts, 
yelled, clapped or chanted "Ninoy! Associated Press The lack ofa motive is the primary this point, though it hasn't been Letz. "Too many things just weren't ninoy!" on a seaside boulevard lined problem facing investigators in the ruled out, that it was a robbery at­clicking. with night clubs, discos and hotels. FORT WAYNE, Ind. No beating deaths of Osborne, 35, his tempt." "The only concrete things we Benigno Aquino's nickname was prime suspect has emerged in the wife, Jane, 34, and their 11-year-old Nevertheless, Letz said, "I think have are physical things at the home "Ninoy." murder of newspaperman Dan Os­son, Benjamin. The bodies were everybody feels that eventually we itself," he added. 
Only a few boulevard strollers and borne, his wife and son, but police found in the family's southside home will solve this homicide." Police will work in the house other joggers looked on, but ROAR want to talk with people in five or six Sept. 19. A videot~tpe of information about through Saturday and will continue organizers said they were not disap­other cities, Lt. George Letz said Police believe they were beaten the case is being shown to officers to guard the house for an un­pointed with the small turnout be­Friday. to death the night ofSept. 16 orearly not directly involved in the inves­determined amount oftime, he said. cause they had very little time to Letz would not name the cities. Sept. 17. tigation to keep them abreast of the Officers planned to begin in­prepare for the event, which was an­Police ChiefDavid C. Riemen said Police, able to trace the Osborne's situation. terviewing fellow employees of Dan nounced only 15y leaflets passed Thursday his department was told activities through interviews with One item in the tape is in ques­Osborne, who was The Fort Wayne around in business offices and by three other police departments, neighbors, believe 11 p.m. Sept. 16 tion. That was an eyewitness ac­News-Sentinel's editorial page schools. which he declined to identify, "have was the last time the Osbornes were count ofa man, his Army field jacket editor. They would begin with 
After jogging for about half a mile, three people in custody that should seen alive, detective Sgt. Ronald L splattered with what appeared to be people who had daily contact with 
the runners looked spent. From then be investigated to see if there could Kelley said. red paint, who was reportedly seen Osborne, "and if needed, expand 
on the run was broken by spells of be a connection. We were informed "Without a motive you have vir­in the area ofthe Osborne home ear­from there." Employees were asked 
rest and walking. these people have the capability of tually no alleys of investigation to ly Sept. 17. Thursday to offer any information 
The joggers finally got to a subur­committing such a crime." focus your attention on," said Letz, a Letz said investigators had dis­that might help investigators. 
ban Manila church for Mass, and af­Regarding the leads in the other top investigator in the case. counted much of the information Letz and Deputy ChiefErnest Wal­
terward Aquino spoke to reporters. cities, Letz said only, "There's been "It does not appear at this time it the reported witness had offered. ter are the coordinators ofthe police 
He accused a government witness all different kinds ofinformation, not was a result of a burglary attempt," "When we checked out what he task force formed to handle the Os­oflying in testimony released Satur-necessarily crimes ofviolence." Letz said. "And it does not appear at told us, ~ lot of it wasn't true," said borne investigation. 

~~~eM!~~!~~~~.~~ 
At COMPUTBt SPECIALISTS, -consider cf11k en-, mo~~s. inMrfocet, and applications soft. war. as standard, not optional extra cost add­on~. Ewrything NqUired lo rrme ... computer do -~ talb it includetl. The KAYPIO is a com­pletil syn.nt. 
1166MD2 lfAWiillO 
11595 12795 
-~ ......
....... ~:~ 
-·­
BRUNO'S II IN ROSELAND 
(Across from Big "C" Lumber) 
Now Delivers To Campus 
Monc!ays Only 
Bruno will deliver a 
16" with any toppings for $6.00 to campus FREE 
Get set to Fall into the BAHAMAS! 
Senior Class Trip Mandatory Informational Meeting 
Thurscllay. Oct. 4 7:30p..m. Senior Bar 
Free Pilzza and Pop Served! 
For m•ore information call: Stella 283-6141 Mary 284·5055 

277-4519 Friday, Oct. 21-8 P.M. Open 4-11 Morris Civic Auditorium-So. Bend Tickets '11.50 & '10.50
7daysJa week 
On Sal-Century Center lox OHice or Notre Dame Student Union Ticket OHice FOR CHARGE ORDERs-Call 284·9111 
......... 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----­
The Observer Monday, October 3, 1983 -page 6 
Put on a pair of 
characters! 
Our Dondi TM boot slippers are more fun than anything on two feet! Warm, cuddly, soft and fat-padded, in adult sizes S,M,L. Fuzzy pile Alligator and Felix the Cat, 25.00; Man and Woman, or Sir Rex lion at 35.00. Also available: Josh Bear, Wrecker Racoon, Baby, Clown and assorted animals. Hosiery, Scottsdale Mall and University Park. 
•·I ..I' 
~u.a 
CHARGE IT TODAY ... AT AYRES! Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park today, 10:00 to 9:00. 
-··-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
r 
Viev~_o_i_n_t_________
M-ond-ay_,O-ct-obe-r 3_, 1-98-3 -p-ag-e7 
What should we do with ,Watt? 
The Reagan Administration. has ex­perienced its share of turbuk nt incidents involving Cabinet members. Tl'.ere was the great Allen-Haig feud in 1981, only to be followed by the Haig-Ciark sequel of 1982. 
Robert Lloyd Snyder Then midweek 
David Stockman somehow retained his job at the O.M.B. following William Grieder'sAtlan­tic Monthly article which underminded the credibility of the President's pol:cies. William Casey's financial dealings since his appoint­ment as the CIA director have caused a stir in Washington. Secretary of Labm Raymond Donovan was also the target ofpublic scrutiny in 1982 after allegations linked him with or­ganized crime. The Environmemal Protection Agency has also been under attack until the appointment of William Ruckelhaus in 1982. ChiefofStaffJames Baker may yet lose his job when the results ofthe F.B.I. "Debategate" in­quiry are revealed. 
However, Secretary of the Interior James Watt has been the most controversial and politically damaging Cabinet member. His recent comments concerning the composi­tion of an Interior Department committee is anotherfaux pas in a long list of memorable blunders. The Secretary's "misspeaks" have enraged environmentalists for years -but this time Watt has alienated a much wider audience, some of whom will be critical to Reagan's reelection hopes. 
Why has Reagan kept such a liability? The primary reason is money. Watt is easily the President's largest fundraiser, outearning the next largest by nearly a two-to-one margin; this is clearly an asset the President would like to draw upon until after the 1984 elections. Watt's situation in the current administration is like keeping a prize show dog that repeated­ly bites your friends; so long as the dog con­tinues to rake in the prizes, you can endure the animal's misbehavior a little bit longer. 

Watt realizes that he is an easy target for Administration foes. His face is plastered on dartboards throughout the homes ofenviron­mentalists in the U.S. due to his pro-business leanings. Watt's "wide, arrogant, leering smile" and his somewhat plastic appearance under bright television lights also make him an easy target. A proud and dominating man, Watt is a self-professed "born-again Christian" who in the past has asserted his beliiefthat op­ponents of his much-maligned policies are 
'godless and un-American." 
Yet, until now, Watt has survived all result­ing challenges and has kept the respect and confidence ofthe President. He has thorough­ly effected programs and policy in the Interior Department consistent with the President's avowed "pro-business" philosophy. Although Watt's proposals to sell off huge amounts of Federal lands have been defeated, he has opened huge off~shore tracts for oil and gas exploration over the loud protests ofenviron­mentalist groups and concerned citizens. Despite long-standing suspicion by the liberal media that the Interior Department has given "sweetheart deals" to energy and land development companies, governmental scrutiny has been initiated only recently; one ofthese committees is composed ofa black, a Jew, two women and a "cripple." 
Before this latest incident, Watt's behavior was highly questionable; with this latest derogatory statement, his behavior has become embarrassing to both the President and the nation. Reagan should drop Watt for political reasons and because of historic precedent. President Ford dealt with Secretary ofAgriculture Earl Butz in 1978 for a racial joke told to the press. In 1981, the American public began to question the ap­propiateness ofJames Watt as caretaker ofour national resources. Now, in 1983, we can only hope that Reagan will consider the ap­propriateness ofJim Watt as a public servant for all Americans. 

P. 0. BoxQ 

joke gone wild! Notre Dame is not only allow­meaning of the word. It is a prime e:xample of The Counseling and Psychological Services ing but is actually assisting a major U.S. cor­the giving of the excesses of your excesses program is excellent, and I deeply encourage
Cap'n Cruutch 
poration in this wasteful promotion which rather than ofyour substance. those with problems to seek help. DearEditor: reflects the worst of our society's excessive jerry Powers The comic strip showed that everyone haS' 
I came to Notre Dame becattse I thought it consumerism. With the University adding problems, and these problems need solutions. was unique -unique for its commitment to legitimacy ro the cause, Quaker Oats is spend­Although this incident has been blown way Christian values and social justice. Well, after ing $60,000 to provide some fun and games out of proportion, hopefully it will serve as a
"Shmen" def~ense 
a few short weeks I am finding that it is for bored Notre Dame students and to positive agent, helping those afflicted to unique, but in an embarrassin1~ and sad way. promote a kids' junk food cereal. And for the DearEditor: recognize their problem and seek help. The sophomore class, with the .1pproval ofthe same price, Notre Dame can further prove the Regarding my misunderstood and uninten­If the comic strip was so outrageously of­Administration, has engineered what is supos­depths ofits insulation from the real world of tionally upsetting cartoon "Shmen" of Sep­fensive, it should have been edited in the first sedly "the biggest event at N(ltre Dame this double-digit unemploym~nt in South Bend, tember 21, I would like to clarify several place. Also, does one mistake justify social year"-Capt in Crunch Week!! and all the other "realities" ofthe times. things. persecution? If you remember, I did have 
The sophomores and the 1\dministration Thankfully, some saw the sad irony in­The assumption that I wrote it in response some very uplifting cartoons, such as the one. have brought Notre Dame to the point of ab­volved in this nonseP.se just long enough to to the publicized 10 week self-help sessions is with the guy praying at the Grotto. I consider surdity, at best, and unrestrained self­insist that I I 60th of the money go to charity, wrong. I wrote the strip last summer and did myself a concerned citizen who wouldn't indulgence, at worst. Rather than think about and to arrange some-hospital visits for Mr. not forsee the commotion it has caused. The want to cause social unrest, and I didn't mean inviting Ted Koppel or the lik<:s to cover this Crunch. Thanks to these efforts, 2000 years humor I saw in the strip was certainly not to. Now that this incident has probably cost "major event," any self-respecting Notre later, Lazarus at the gates will have a few sweet aimed at bulimics. The humor was in the way me the year-long position as third-slot car­Dame student or official should pretend that it crumbs of Captain Crunch to nibble on. This the psyche services receptionist was depicted toonist, I will suffer more than my share from was all just a bad joke. kind of charity does little more than assuage as a schizophrenic (in the last frame he was the cartoon. I regret this misunderstanding. 
Unfortunately, it is just a bad joke -a bad the consciences of benefactors and mock the talking to himself). john Gibbs 

Department Managers 
========Dle_Obseaer=======!~!!~n~c'!~~.~~~~ ..........David Dziedzic 
Box Q. Nf.otre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 139-5303  Managing Editor ......  _...... Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager ............... Daniel O'Hare  
Tbe Ohserl'f!r is the indeptndent newspaper puhlished hy the students of the Uni­ Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn  Controller . ......................  Alex Szilvas  
versity of Notre Dame du l.ar.: and Sain~ Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect  News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide  Advertising Manager . ..............  Chris Owen  
the poECJes of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as at:­ News Editor . ................. ~ark Worscheh  Composition Manager . ........ Suzanuc i.a Croix  
curatc:ly and as ohjectively ,,s possihle. Unsigned editorial~ represent the opinon ofa  Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski  Circulation Manager . .....·.... : ... Mark Miotto.  
majority ofthe Editori.!tBoard. Commentaries. letters. and the Inside Column present  Features Editor . ............... Sarah HlamiltoA  System Manager  ............... Kevin Williams  
th~· views oftheir author~. Column space is availahle to all members ofthe community.  Photo Editor .................... Scollt Bower  
and the free expres!'oion ofvarying opinions on campus. through leners. is encouraged.  Sports Editor ........ : .. ...................\-1ichael Sullivan  

Founded November 3, 1966 

Sports Briefs 
All interested in officiating either women's 
flag football or soccer, please stop by the Non-Varsity Athletics office 
or call at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Entries for the Domer Six-Mlle Run are 
now being accepted at the NVA office for the Domer 6-mile run. The run is set for October 8 at 10 a.m. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers and trophies to the first-place finishers in each of six divi­sions. Bring the S2 entry fee to the NVA office by October 6. -The Obst>n,er 
There will be a meeting for those interested in the Fencing Novice Program at 7 p.m. today in the fencing gym of the ACC. Those who wish to attend should wear gym clothes and gym shoes. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Clubwm 
hold its first meeting on Wednesday, October 5, at 7 p.m. in the third floor gymnastics room of the Rockne Memorial. For further details, contact Pat Toole at 277-7571 or Matt Kelleher at 1206.-The Ob­server 
Steve Beuerlein, Notre Dame's starting quarterback, will be tbe guest on Speaking ofSports at 10 p.m. tomorrow night on WSND-AM 64. If you have any questions or comments, call in at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's tennis teamfinished third in 
the four-team Saint Mary's Invitational this weekend. The Belles dropped their first two matches to eventual-champion Toledo and Bowling Green, two Division I teams, before defeating DePaul in their final match on Sunday. Saint Mary's fell to the Mudhens by a 6-3 margin. Debbie Laverie and Caroline Zero were victorious in the singles competition, while the doubles team ofHeller and Heckman also won its match. Things did not go too well against Bowling Green's Falcons as the Belles were swept 9-0. Almost every match was close, however. Finally, against the Blue Demons, Saint Mary's got things going as Laverie, Zero Kristin Beck, and Heckman won their matches. The Belles are now 6-2 on the season. The next home match Is on Wednesday against St. Francis. More details on the team will appear In tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
Sharon Petro's Notre Dame women's tennis team took on some of the best competition in the country In this weekend's Northwestern Invitational. While it did not fare too well, it did offer more competition than in the past. Susie Panther was the most suc­cessful, advancing to the quarterfinals before losing to the tourna­ment's top seed. More details will appear in tomomorrow's paper. ­
The Observer · · · 
The Notre Dame cross country team 
pulled off its biggest win ever as It upset favorite Marquette in the National Catholic Meet on the Burke GolfCourse last Friday. The top seven Notre Dame runners finished ahead ofthe fifth Marquette run­ner. Tim Cannon and Andy Dillon finished fourth and fifth in the race. More details will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
'-----------------------------" 
Monday, October 3, 1983 -page 8 
Baseball roundup 

1983 season ends for all but four 
Associated Press 
The twoAmerican League playoff-bound teams -Baltimore and Chicago -won yesterday on the last day of the season, while the Na­tional League plaroff teams Philadelphia and Los Angeles ­both lost. 

The Orioles finished with a 2-0 
victory over the New York Yankees, 
winding up six games ahead of 
Detroit in the AL East. The White 
Sox beat Seattle 3-0 to finish a 
league-record 20 games ahead of 
Kansas City in the West. 

Philadelphia lost 4-0 to Pittsburgh but finished six games ahead of the Pirates in the NL East. In the West, the Dodgers were beaten 4-3 by San Francisco but wound up three games ahead ofAtlanta. 
Mike Boddicker, Sammy Stewart, and Tippy Martinez combined on a one-hitter to beat the Yankees. Eddie Murray hit a two-run homer, a career-high 33rd, for the Orioles. The triumph was only the second in the last seven games for the Orioles since they clinched the division. 

Richard Dotson, one of two 20­
game winners for the White Sox, and 
four relievers combined on a three­
hitter to beat Seattle. The White Sox 
finished with a major league-leading 
99 victories. Their fmish was the 
most lopsided in the league since 
the Yankees outdistanced Detroit by 
19-and-a-halfgames in 1936. 

Dotson, 22-7, worked the first 5 
2-3 innings and allowed all the hits 
with two walks and five strikeouts. 
Dennis Lamp worked the ninth in­
ning for his 15th save. 

Lee Tunnell pitched a five-hitter as Pittsburgh ended Philadelphia's season with a loss. Tunnell struck out five and walked one. Jason Thompson homered for the Pirates in the fourth to make it 3-0. The 
loser was rookie Charlie Hudson, 8­8, who is scheduled to pitch in the third game ofthe NL playoffs. 

Jim Barr pitched four innings of scoreless relief to help the Giants over LA. The Dodgers led 2-0 after the first inning, but San Francisco got one back in the second, then took the lead with two runs in the fourth on RBI hits by Dan Gladden and Brad Wellman. 
In other AL games,Jim Rice nailed down the league home run cham­pionship witth a three-run shot giving him 39, and also tied Cecil 
Cooper of Milwaukee for the RBI title with 126. Rice's homer gave the Red Sox a 3-1 victory over Cleveland in 44-year-old Carl Yastrzemski's last game as a player. Wade Boggs ofBos­ton also finished the season with a .361 batting average to win that in­dividual honor. 

Yastrzemski, who is retiring. played in his 3,308th major league game, a record, starting in right field. He left in the eighth inning, having gone 1-for-3, to the cheers of33,497 at Fenway Park. 
Cooper homered over the roof in right field at Tiger Stadium, and Rick Manning drove in two runs with a triple that powered the Milwaukee Brewers over Detroit 7-4. Cooper had two RBI to reach the 126 mark. 
At Toronto, Kent Hrbek paced 
Minnesota's 13-hlt attack with three 
hits, including a two-run homer, to 
lead the Twins to a 9-3 victory over 
the BlueJays. 
Rookie right-hander Steve Brown tossed a six-hitter and right fielder Mike Brown had three hits as the California Angels beat the Texas Rangers 2-0. Brown, 2-3, walked one and struck out four. 
Luis Quinones sent the Oakland A's ahead with a pinch-hit double in the seventh inning, breaking a 4-4 tie, and the A's finished the season with an 8-4 victory over the Kansas City Royals. Oakland's Rickey Hen­
• 
derson had three hits and stole his 
league-leading 108th base. 
In the other NL games, winning pitcher John Stuper singled home two runs to cap a five-run first inning that carried the St. Louis Cardinals to a 9-6 victory over the Chicago Cubs. The Cards, last year's World Series champions, dropped to a 79-83 record to finish four in the NL East. 
Matt Sinatro singled in two runs and Brelt Butler had an RBI single as the Atlanta Braves beat San Diego. Brett was playing in his final game with Atlanta. He was the player to be 
named later in the deal on Aug. 28 
that sent Len Barker from Cleveland 
to Atlanta. 
-Kuenn fired 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE Harvey Kuenn 
said yesterday has been been fired as 
manager of the Milwaukee Brewers 
while General Manager Harry Dal­
ton declined to confirm the action. 
"As we all know, you are eventual­ly going to get fired in this business. I "'.Juld be lying to you if I said this wasn't tough, but it happened and I have to accept it," said Kuenn, who last year led the Brewers to the World Series. 
• . Yawners 

continuedjrompage 12 
those games should carry over to the tougher ones." 
Senior forward Ken Harkenrider, who picked up three assists yester­day at DePaul, spells out the team's frustration. 
"Scoring goals is nice, but its gets old," he said. "It's not as much fun scoring when you're only one of eights'guys to do it. 
"The preparation for the tough game against IU was lacking. We hadn't played anyone of their caliber. Sure, there aren't many in their caliber but the teams we played weren't even close." 
As far as what the upcoming home schedule has to offer, thae's Findlay this Friday night at Cartier. One would assume it's Findlay of Ohio, rather than Harry or Beatrice Findlay from the comer drugstore. 
But the way things are going of late, don't be too surprised either way. 
"The core of our schedule is this weekend's tournament at Mil­waukee (including host Wisconsin­Milwaukee, Wisconsin-Madison, and St. John's) and our upcoming game with Akron (October 19)," said Harkenrider. 
A win at Akron would erase the scars of the Indiana loss and would put the Irish in a position to get a postseason playoffbid. 
"As far as the bid is concerned, we would be better off playing more of the top teams In our Midwest region," Harkenrider said. "As it is now we only play three of the top ten in the Midwest when we should play eight or nine. The coaches who vote for the tournament invitations never get a chance to see us play." 
And there it is. As strange as it may sound, a close game would be kind of nice. 

TIH Obseroer LaFonune ofl'lce accepts cluslfled advcnislng from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina 
Hall ba.Kmcnt is o~n from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service Is 3 p.m. All das.slftcd acb must br prepaid, either in person or through the maiL Chargr is ten cents per 5tvcn charac.:­tcrs, ~r day.
Classifieds 
NOTICES I FIVE FOOT TWO & TALLER. SIZE 9 & SMALLER. OPPORTUNITY TO MODEL FOR PROFESSIONAL HAIR FASHION SHOW ON OCT 2 & 3. PRELIMINARY INTERVIEWS FRIDAY. SEPT 30. AT MARRIOTT HOTEL. 7 P M ASK FOR LAMAUR Typ1ng ALL KINDS 277·8534 after 5:30  LOST: Key chain w/6 keys on a green ltoating boat key chain. NO 8239 LOST. Annotated New Oxford Bible. left behind 1n Monday 9/26 at 2:30 p.m. in Room 328 Computer Center /Math Build­ing. Please return to office of Lost/Found (Adm1mstrat10n Building) Thanks. Ber· nard Deprez  Desperate! y need Penn State game tickets. Call Bnan at 8795. HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 USC·ND tix wanted. Paying most. (312) 246-4650. MUST HAVE USC TIX--MONEY NO OBJECT--NEED UP TO SIX GAS. CALL CHRIS AT 234· 7279 ANYTIME  Need IMMEDIATELY 2-4 GA's lor Any Home Game Call Pete 1224 Need Non-student tickets to N D vs USC. Call collect. (312) 565-5959 x2013 or x2233. HAVE PITT TIX NEED PENN ST TIX CALL 1796 NEED PITT TIX, STUD'S OR GA'S CALL 1796  I NEED 4·6 USC GAs AND 1 USC STU­DENT TICKET: CALL PAT NO 1238 HELP! MOM & DAD HAVE NEVER SEEN AN ND GAME! NEED 2 GA's FOR USC OR NAVY. CALL DEBBIE 284-4372 NEED 2 STUD. TIX TO NAVY. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 284-4372 Help! Need USC tix. student or GA. Call Steve at 8638  Desperate isn't the word, I NEED. really NEED a ticket to the PITT game. I'm not particular. I'll take a student or GA. Please. call 1311 and offer to sell me your ticket. Will pay big bucks. t HAVE 4 Pm TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. WILLING TO TRADE TICK­ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA'S. CALL JERRY A"ER 6 AT x1783. RB POLL Week of 9/26/83 Rob 3-1 (4)31 Joe 3·1 (1 )29 Bob 1-0 (1)24 Larry 1-1 22  
DEMOCRATIC SOCIAUSTS OF AMER~A ORGAN~noNAL MEETING _. 115 O'Shllg _. 7:30 tonight. Everyone I• owlcome.  FOR RENT  NEED USC GA'S NOW--CALL CHRIS AT234-7279 HELP  NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR · GOOD OL' DAD" I Please call DAVE at8919 I desperately need 3 GA's or student tick­ets to the Pitt game. If you can help call  FOR SALE  John 0-3 11 Adam 0·2 9 FOR GOD'S SAKE. JODESI HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY! LOVE YOUR SIS. JENS.  
ILOST/FOUND I HELP. Lost valuable dass nng. WILL PAY REWARD.NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 2876277. HOWIE ENDAD LOST: GOLD BRACELET ON 9/25 IN LIRARY PERIODICAL ROOM OR FROM  FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO ND 2773604 WANTED Naw/sem1used 8 trad< tapes. any style music. Marl< 283· 7140 evemngs ATTN:ALL STUDENTS FROM  A R~H friend is in desperate needoftwo PITTSBURGH GA'._ Please help an old friend out of a jam by.calling Sart at ;?n­1326. You will be richly raw81ded. HEY DUDES I HAVE2 PITTGA'S THAT I AM WILLING TO TRADE FOR 2 USC GA'S. I AM ALSO LOOKING FOR 1 MORE USC GA. IF INTERESTED CALL BRIAN AT 1165  Karen at 284-4278. Will pay BUCK$$ I!! NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALLJACKAT277­5408 NEED 3 TIX FOR NAVY. CALL ED AF­TER 6 P.M. AT277-8111. Need 6 GA Pitt. tix. Must be in grps. of 3 or more. 239-5845 Steve. ................................... WANTED: 4 TIX TO SO. CAL GAME. MUST BE TOGETHER. W/PAY BIG  AVAILABLE: 2 USC tix. Call (215) 238­9052 after 5 pm. PERSONALS  CATHY MCISAAC CONGRATULA· TIONS FOR MAKING IT THROUGH YOUR 20TH BIRTHDAY WITHOUT STRADDLING ANY CORBY'S BENCHES. TOO BAD IT ISN'T OPEN SUNDAY NIGHTS. YOU'LL GET YOUR CHANCE THIS WEEKEND. HAPPY BIRTHDAY LOVE THE GIRLS Dear Kathy thank you for the bestest two years of my life I HAPPY ANNIV love Man  
LIBRARY TO BREEN-PHILLIPS TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE MARYBETH AT 12771F FOUND.  SEN· CALL  SO.CALIF. CHARTER FLIGHT FOR XMAS BREAK.NEED 147 PEOPLE. LOW FARE FROM SO.BEND TO LAX.  NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC AND/OR PmORAIR FORCE. CALL JIM AT 1501  BUCKS. 1111.  CONTACT:  MIKE  312-751­ NEED MONEY? LIKI! A CHALLENGE?  Hey I Let's make football a club sport and give Hockey scholarships!  
CALL 23!Hl682 FOR MORE DETAILS.  ................................................:.:::~, .......  ,_,..,_.TURN  YOUR  SPARE  TIME  WTO  
LOST! one gold Aries medal with diamond stud. Please contact Tim at 8842  Responsible babysitt8f ~part time  NMd 4 GA tlcka for  usc Glme.  REALL Y.REALLY NEED ~OR 6) TICK­ETS TO PITT GAMEIICALL BILL NO  IIIONEYI Groupur lndlvldiUIIa n.ded to promot8 c:o-.ge vcllllon toura. For  Dear Sugar, I just thought I'd say embara· ment.lan.  
(ST. Ed's. 308).  days for infant and three year old in my  """-call00111277-5214.  1763  ....,. lntormllllon: C811 414 711-11455,  
home just north of campus. Sitter with  .. . ...........................................  or Write: DESIGNI!RS OF TRAVEL,  4th floor Regina N. are taking int8Mt!WS  
LOST  BLUE  GORTEX  RAINCOAT  own child ok. Call Jenn~er 239-7278 Mon­ NEED 4 NAVY GA's. CALL STEVE AT  Need4NAVYGA's.CaiiMo7812orTom  4025  N. 124111  SlrNI,Btooldlftl,  WI  for  SYA  perspectives.  PrereQuisites·  
REWARD JOHN 234-8493  Fri.  7980.  3558.  53005.  5'10" or over. Call4215or4212  

Monday, October 3, 1983 -page 9
The 0bset'V4~ 
----------------------~~----~------------·--------------------------­
NFL ~)tandings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE AMERICAN CONFERENCE NATIONAL CONFERENCE EAST 
EAST  w  L  T  Pet.  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA Buffalo  3  1  0 .750  
Dallas  5  0  01.000  151 1 04 Baltimore  3  2  0 .600  
Washington  4  1  0 .800  144 108Miami  3  2  0 .600  
Philadelphia  3  2  0 .600  87  88NV Jets  2  2  0 .500  
NV Giants  2  3  0 .400  96  101 New England  2  3  0 .400  
St. Louis  1  4  0 .200  89  153  CENTRAL  
CENTRAL  Cleveland  3  2  0 .600  
Green Bay  3  2  0 .600  147 128 Pittsburgh  3  2  0 .600  
Minnesota  3  2  0 .600  107 139 Cincinnati  1  4  0 .200  
Chicago  2  3  0  400  115  100 Houston  0  5  0 .000  
Detrort  1  4  0 .200  78  102  WEST  
Tampa Bay  0  5  0 .000  57  125 LA Raiders  4  1  0 .800  
WEST  SeJttle  3  2  0 .600  
t San Franctsco  4  1  0 .800  1e4  ~"Denver  2  3  0 .400  
LA Rams  3  2  0 .600  115 97 Kansas Crty  2  3  0 . 400  
New Orleans  3  2.  0 .600  126 1 06 San Diego  2.  3  0 .400  
Atlanta  2  3  0 .400  107 99  
Yesterday'a Resulta  

Dallas :17, Minnesota 24 Green Bay 55, Tampa Bay 14 Chicag) 31, Denver 14 Pittsburgh 17, Houston 10 San Francisco 33, New England 13 Seattle 24, Cleveland 9 Washir gton 37, Los Angeles Raiders 35 Battimc re 34, Cincinnati 31 Philadelphia 28, Atlanta 24 Los Anneles Rams 21, Detroit 10 Kansas Crty 38, St. Louis 14 New Orleans 17, Miami 7 San Dlugo 41, New Vorl< Giants 34 
Tonight'a G-a New Veri< Jets at Buffalo 
PF PA 68 54 118 118 81 74 91 93 111 132 
108 108 115 101 77 98 95 148 
124 74 105 94 62 86 87 85 142 153 
Dallas cornerback Ron Fellows' 58-yard touchdown run with an in­terception helped make the Cow­boys the only unbeaten team in the National Football League yesterday. 
The Los Angeles Raiders lost for the first time when Redskins quar­terbackJoe Theismann passed toJoe Washington for a score with 33 seconds left and a 37-35 victory. 
Dallas, developing a reputation as the Comeback Cowboys, spotted Minnesota a 24-12 halftime lead, then rallied for a 37-24 victory at Minneapolis. The Cowboys are 5-0, while the Vikings dropped to 3-2 . 
Minnesota gained its 11-point halftime lead on the strength of two touchdown passesfrom Steve Oils to Sammy White. 
Dallas cut the lead to 24-20 on 
Ron Springs' 5-yard touchdown nm, 
a score that was set up by Ron Hill's 
3 7 -yard punt return; Then came Fel­
lows' touchdown return ofthe inter­
ception and an insurance score on a 
12-yard TO pass from Danny White 
to Drew Pearson to climax an 84­
yard drive led by Tony Dorsett, who 
rushed for 141 yards. 
Theismann's third TO pass at Washington boosted the Redskins to a 4-1 record. The Raiders dropped to an identical mark. 


:: =.= 
NFLroundup 

Dallas becomes last unbeaten team 
At Green Bay, Wis., the Packers \ In other games, the Baltimore had a league-record 49-point perfor-Colts edge!l the Cincinnati Bengals mance in the first half en route to a 34-31; the Pittsburgh Steelers 55-14 win ovo~r Tampa Bay, now 0-5, Idowned the winless Houston Oilers 
which made the winners' record 3-: 17-10; the Philadelphia Eagles 
2. Among the Packers' first half .! nipped the Atlanta Falcons 28-24; 
San Francisco boosted its record 
touchdowns  were  a  90-yard punt  the Chicago Bears beat the Denver  
return by Phmip Epps,Jessie Clark's  Broncos 31-14; the San Diego Char­ 
score on a 75-yardpass-runplay, and  gers edged the New York Giants 41­ 
Mike Dougl~tss'  35-yard run with a  34; the Los Angeles Rams topped the  
fumble.  Detroit Uons 21-1 0; and the Kansas  
City Chiefs trounced the St. Louis  

Cardinals 38-14. 
to 4-1 with a 33-13 mauling of the 
Monday night, the New York Jets
New England Patriots, 2-3, at Fox­
play the Bills at Buffalo. 
boro, Mass. Joe Montana passed for 
Ken Anderson threw for four
two touchdowns and Ray Wersch­
touchdowns for the Bengals, 1-4, at
ing kicked four field goals in the 
Cincinnati, but Curtis Dickey's 3­
49ers' fourth straight victory. 
yard in the fourth quarter won it for Miami stumbled in a bid to go 4-1 the Colts, 3-2, who had moved to when Ken :Stabler passed for one within winning range on field goals t~uchdo~ ~d Wayne Wilson, sub-of 29 and 53 yards by Raul Allegre. bmg for tnJured George Ro_gers, With the Steelers, 3-2, trailing 10­rushe~ for 161 yards on 1~ carnes as , 7 against Oilers, 0-5, at Pittsburgh, the Sa.J.nts b<!at the Dolphins ~ 7-7 at : quarterback Cliff Stoudt, who had New Orleans. Each club now 1s 3-2. ! been booed roundly, combined Cleveland also dropped to 3-2, ; with Walter Abercrombie on a 51­when the Browns' three-game win-yard pass-and-run touchdown on ning streak was snapped 24-9 by the what had begun as a broken play. It Seattle Seawhawks, 3-2, at was Pittsburgh's second victory Cleveland. Rookie Curt Warner had over Houston this season. two short touchdown runs for the Philadelphia pulled out its victory Seahawks, who capitalized on three over the Falcons at Atlanta when Cleveland tUtrnovers. Ron Jaworski combined with Mike Quick for a touchdown on a 53-yard 
pass-and-run with 1:45 remaining in the game. Atlanta, which trailed 21-7 at halftime, took a 24-21 lead on Mick Luckhurst's 44-yard field goal with 5:48 left. The Eagles now are 3-2 and the Falcons 2-3. 
Receiver Willie Gault scored two touchdowns on pass plays, including a 72-yarder with reserve quarter­back Vince Evans, as the Bears, 2-3, beat the Broncos, 2-3, at Chicago. 
Chuck Muncie ran 34 yards for a touchdown, his third of the game, with 4:32 to play to lift San Diego, 2-3, over the Giants, 2-3, at East Rut­herford, N.J. 
Rookie Eric Dickerson rushed 30 times for 199 yards and scored touchdowns of I, 8 and 4 yards, sparking the Rams, 3-2, past Detroit, 1-4, at Anaheim. 
Kansas City improved its record to 2-3 with its home victory over St. Louis, 1-4, as Theotis Braown and Billy Jackson scored on short runs and linebacker Charles Jackson scored on a 37-yard run with a recovered fumble. 

COUNSELINE A service to the NO community 239·7793 HOURS: 4-10pm Mon-Thurs. Counseline is a free. confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped mate~ials that cover a wide varil3'tv of student concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Fnendshrp Butldmg 7 Dealmg With Constructw'=! Cntrc•sm 8 Oealtng Wt\h Anger 9 Understandmg Jealousy and How to Deal With II 10 How to Say "NO" 16 Becomrng Open to Olhers 18 Dating Skrlts 30 An11.iety and Possrble Ways to Cope wrthtt '32 How \o Deal wrth lon\l!"oess 33 How to Handle Fears 35 Burldmg self-Esteem & Conlrdence 37 Retaxmg Exercrses 38 Coptng wrth Slress 39 Female Sex Rote-Changes and Stress 44 Learnmg to Accept Yourself 61 Whatrs Therapy & How to Use It 83 How to Cope wtth a Broken Aelaltonshrp 85 Understanding Goef 90 Helptng a Frrend 160 E.arly s1gns of an Alcohol Problem 161 Responsible Dec1stons About Onnkmg 402 Self·Asserl•vehess 431 What is Depress1on 432 How to Deal with Depress1on 433 Depression as a Life Style 478 Becommg lndependentlrom Parents 479 Dealmg w•th Alcoholic Pa~ents 491 Su1c1dal Crisis 492 Recogmzing Suicidal Potential 1n Others 493 Help1ng So.~~.'?.~~!~.~ SUICidal Crt SIS  
Counsefine is a completely anonymous serv.ce offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9-5 _ --CLIP AND SAVE-­ 

Monday, October 3, 1983 -page 10
The Observer 
continuedfrom page 12 
touchdown pass -the first of many 
bad calls against the Irish. Notre 
Dame had to settle for a 21-yard 
Mike johnston field goal and a slim 
10-3lead. 
The game was decided In the 
second quarter as the Irish defense 
got tougher and the offense con­
tinued to move the ball effectively. 
Colorado played Its best football 
of the game In the first minute ofthe 
quarter as It stopped Notre Dame on 
three consecutive short-yardage 
plays on the Buffalo 5. This was also 
the low point of the game for the 
Irish as the coachescou t ld not called 
a time ou~o set up the fourth-down 
play and sent in freshman Byron 
Abraham which seemed to tip off 
everybody in the stadium about who 
would get the ball. The Buffaloes 
sure were not fooled, stopping 
Abraham for a one-yard loss. 
However, the Notre Dame 
defense continued to come up with 
the big plays, forcing Colorado to 
punt the ball. A dumb clipping 
penalty pinned the Irish inside their 
own 10, however, putting Beuerlein 
in his toughest situation of the day. 
Once again, the play calling came 
through. Mixing short passes with 
some tough running by another 
freshman star, Hiawatha Francisco, 
the Irish gradually moved up the 
field. The only third-down play of 
the drive was the most Important as 
Beuerlein zipped a pass to a well­
covered Howard for the first down. 
From there, Mark Brooks took the 
ball on a quick trap and rumbled 31 
yards for the touchdown. 
Notre Dame got the ball back 
quickly, giving it enough time to In­
crease the lead. 
This time Blair Klel was at quarter­
back. Faust put in the senior for fear 
that the high altitude would exhaust 
Beuerlein. His decision paid oti Al­
though Kiel almost made a costly 
fumble that would have let the Buf­
faloes get back in the game, he other­
wise played quite well. In fact, he 
made a tremendous pass under 
pressure that allowed Notre Dame 
get within field goal range. 
This time john11ton missed, however. His kick was tipped by Colorado's Victor Scott who came around the blockers like Miami's 
Reggie Sutton did last week when he blocked two kicks. Thus, the Irish went Into the lockerroom with only 17 points, despite gaining 343 yards of total offense. 
Seventeen points was more than enough, though. Colorado did move the ball better In the second half, but never had a chance. Notre Dame was moving the ball better despite pas­sing the ball only two times in the entire half. 
• • . College 
continuedfrom page 12 
trimmed Mississippi State 20-7, No. 12 Florida defeated No. 16 LSU 31­17, No. 13 Southern Methodist whipped Texas-Arlington 34-0, No. 14 Michigan trounced Indiana 43­1H, No. I 5 Miami, Fla. swamped Duke 56-I 7, No. I H Washington beat Navy 27-10, No. 19 Maryland downed Virginia 23-3 and No. 20 Arizona State drubbed Stanford 29­
11. 
Illinois' jack Trudeau threw three touchdown passes in the first half against Iowa -54 yards to Mitchell Brookins, nine to Cam Benson, six to David Williams -and Chris White, the coach's son, kicked four field 
goals. The Illinl, who were ahead 27­0 at halftime, sacked Iowa Chuck Long seven times for 55 yards and held the Hawkeyes to 1 5 yards rus­hing. 
"There were gteat things happen­
Ing everywhere," said Coach Mike 
White. "I think it would have taken 
an unbelievable team to beat us on 
this kind ofday." 
• • . Buffs 
By the end of the third quarter, when Chris Smith scored on a 29­yard run around Perrino on a third­
Oc1obert'eG-
Notre Dame  10  7  7  3  27  
Colorado  3  0  0  0  3  
Scoring  

NO-Pinkett 10 run (Johns1on kick) 
CU-Field 43 FG 
ND-Johnston21 FG 
NO-Brooks 31 run (Johnston kick) 
NO-Sm~h 29 run (Johnston kick) 
NO-Johnston 39 FG 
NO cu First downs 24 20 Rushing attempts 54 32 Nel Yards Rush1ng 334 108 Nel Yards Pass1ng 160 128 Passes camp-attempted 10-16 15-32 Had inlercepted 0 1 Total Nel Yards 494 236 Fumbles-lost 1-0 4-0 Penalties-yards 6-57 3-27 Punts-average 2-38.5 4·43.5 Individual Leeder• • 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett 18-132: Smrth 10-70: Francisco 10-49: Brooks 3-42: Flemons 4-33: Machtolf 4·13: Colorado: Rousson 11-53: Johnson 9­45: Vogel4·6: Mclemore 3-3: 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Bauerlein 8-12-0,133; Kiel2-3-0.27: Smrth 0-0-1,0: Colorado: Vogel12-25­0,90: Marshall3-7·1.37: 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Howard 4-83: Fran­CISCO 3-38: Bavaro 2-27: Smrth 1-14; Colorado: Hestera 4-43: RoJsson 4-22: Alexander 3-21: Brown 1-37: Johnson 1-9: 
Attendance-52.692 
and-11 play, Notre Dame was securely in control. Even with run­ning backs Lester Flemons and Dave Machtolfseeing their first varsity ac­tion for Notre Dame, the Irish were able to move the ball easily. 

With many first-time starters like freshman nose tackle Mike Griffin, safety Steve Lawrence, Beuerlein, and PerrinO playing well, the depth of the team looks better than many had believed. 
Possibly the most important aspect of the game was the intensity of the Notre Dame players. They scuffled with the Colorado players repeatedly, picking up some un­sportsmanlike: conduct calls, and they jumped around congratulating each other. This excitement was lacking from the first few games. 
It is possible that the effort against 
Colorado signals that the team has 
gotten over the bump, but it is hard 
to judge a team against an opponent 
as weak as Colorado. Next week's 
contest against South Carolina -a 
38-14 winner over Southern Cal this 
weekend -will be a tougher test. 
All that matters for now, though, is that the team played well, played in­spired, and got back in the win column. 
Now, ifwe can onlyfmd some way to get those mountains out to South Bend .... 
IRISH ITEMS -Tom Doerger, Griffin, Lawrence, and Perrino started for the first time .... The at­tendance at Folsom Field was 52,692, the largest ever at Folsom for a non-league opponent .... Grif­fin, Tony Furjanic, Mike Gollc, and Pat Ballage all had a team-high seven tackles. 

Gary Cooper plays a derelict ex-basebaU player caught up on a pub~c•ty 
stunt engmeered by Barbara Stanwyck and man1pulaled by a power­
hungry polit•cal boss 
tnnenberg Aud.,SriiteMuseum Admissionf 

T()~I C3 tilr~s.....z... 0-0., 
DEMOCIIADCSOCIAUSTS 
of 
America 
ND-SMC CHAPTER 
FIRST ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING Monday, Oct. 3, 7:30115 O'Shag. AU lntere•ted faculty and •tudent• welcome• 
Restaurant Opportunities 
Are Awaiting You At The New 
NANCY'S WIND'Y CITY 
OPENING SOON 
Seeking responsible individuals for the following postions: *Pizza Makers *Cooks Bartenders *Food Servers *Bussers *Dishwashers *Cocktail Servers *Hosts/Hostesses *Delivery Personnel 
Apply In Person Monday thru Friday Oct. 3-0ct. 7 At 
NANCY'S WINDY CITY 2046 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 3 minutes from Notre DameI 
'·-· 

J>." ...... 
Final baseball standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eut  
w  L  
x-Philadelphia  90  72  
Pittsburgh  84  78  
Montreal  82  80  
St. Louis  79  83  
Chicago  71  91  
New York  68  94  
Weet  
x-Los Angeles  91  71  
Atlanta  88  74  
Houston  85  77  
San Diego  81  81  
San Francisco  79  83  
Cincinnati  74  88  

Yeeterday's Results New York 1-5, Montreal 0·4 Pittsburgh 4, Philadelphia 0 St. Louis 9, Chicago 6 San Francisco 4, Los Angeles 3 Atlanta 4, San Diego 3 Houston 3, Cincinnati 2 
Seturd•y'e Reeulte New York 5, Montreal1, first game New York vs. Montreal, second, ppd. rain Cincinnati 6, Houston 4 St. Louis 3, Chicago 2 San Francisco 4, Los Angeles 1 Philadelphia 5, Pittsburgh 3 San Diego 4. Atlanta 3. 10 innings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Eut  
Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  GB  
.556  -:x-Baltimore  98  64  .605  
.519  6 Detrort  92  70  .568  6  
.506  81New York  91  71  .562  7  
.488  11.Toronlo  89  73  .549  9  
.438  19 'Milwaukee  87  75  .537  11  
.420  22 :Boston  78  84  .481  20  
'Cleveland  70  92  .432  28  
.562  Weet  
.543  3 x-Chicago  99  63  .611  
.525  6 Kansas City  79  83  .488  20  
.500  10 Texas  77  85  .475  22  
488  12 Oakland  74  88  .457  :?5  
.457  17 Minnesola  70  92  432  29  
California  70  92  .432  29  
Seattle  60  102  .370  39  
Yeeterday's Resulta  
Minnesota 9, Toronto 3  
Milwaukee 7. Detroit 4  
Baltimore 2, New York 0  
Boston 3, Cleveland 1  
California 2, Texas 0  
Oakland B. Kansas Cily 4  
Chicago 3, Seattle 0  
Seturdey'a Reeulte  
Toronto 4, Minnesota 3  
Milwaukee 1 o. Detroil1  
Cleveland 3, Boston 1  
Kansas Crty4-7, Oakland 1-3  
New York 5, Ballimore 4, 12 innings  
California 6. Texas 5  
Chicago 9, Seattle 5  

li 
MultipleChoice 
Don't leave your dinner to guesswork.
D 
3oz. 
(serving) 
Protein 12g Fat lOg 

Domino's Pizza is the best choice. Just 2 slices are more nutritious, lower in fat and higher in protein than either a taco or cheeseburger. 
So give us a call and put us to the test. 

Coke available 16 oz. bottles 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Umlted delivery area. 
C> 1983 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
Nulrltlonallnformatlon from: Table 1. 
Nulrilional Analyses of Fast Foods. Uniled Stales AgriCulture Research Service. 

r·······-·······-------,
I 
Mondays only. 
I
Only $6.99 for a 16" 
I
1-item pizza plus 2

$6.99 I 
I
16 oz. bottles of Coke. 
I
One coupon per pizza 
I
Expires: 10131/83 


I I
Fast, Free Delivery· 
I
1835 South Bend Ave. 
I
Plaza 23 Center 
I

® Phone: 277·2151 
I
36167/2650 
I I 

~----------------------~ 
..... 
~

, ........ -.. ," ...................... " ....
•. 
~c:tCJlC3L~--------------------------·--------~----M·o·n·d-ay_,_o_c_to_b_e_r_3_,t_9_8_3---p-ag_e_t
__t 
WEU. I ~y HE JJ5T OUGHlA Ml«£ UP 
H~ MINP ON£ 'IJAY OR1HE aTl£R !! 


Fate 
ALK.t4H r. rHE /1. D. Pt.A Y£K WAS .7tAS1 8E641Nq TD t[ SPEARED, So Tl!llr'.r AN IJ.NSPo~rSM!tf./ Lll(£ Co!IOUcr PEf{flLrY lt~tNST THF 
1/?.tSH. .. 

.. ·AND 15EUIUS[ N-0. CAN'T TftKE !l JOKE THAr BE(OM[J A CHANGE OF POSSESS IbN 
PENALTY PLUS Pur l1 
FEW POtNfS UP THERE 
FO!f. (OLOR./100' 0 K. '}

Dave &D~ave 
THERE ARE TOO MAllY 06>J0.-10i.U PEOPLE. 0t1 !'~15 ::AM~~I, ~APIJL f·  lLOuD,Rt.JE, ltMMMU~E.  
/  I  IGET~O Fr.:u~rAArED  
~OM£ TIMES.  

\ 

The Daily Crossword 
YES. TilE Y~E A NOH-

Berke Breathed 
, SNE.AKY INCON5151ENCY 
!<UPS M€ UP 

AT NI0HT. M6 
\ -roo. 

Photius 
THEY OON'r CALL {)) 
BtG £/(;HT I?£FS FoK 
NOTHIN.' 
\ 


Mellish 
Campus 
•5:15 
p.m.-Italian Club Dinner, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC Italian Club, Free 

•6:30 
p.m. -AIESEC Student Exchange Meeting, 2D, LaFortune 

•7 
p.m. -Film/ Discussion, "US Bishops and Central America," Rev. Rober:t Pelton, C.S.C., Sponsored by S.O.L.A., Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
and 9:20 p.m. -Film, "A Midsummer Night's Dream," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by English Department, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, For the Democratic Socialists of America, 11 5 O'Shaughnessy 


TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 MASH 
22 Family Feud 
28 Wheel of Fortune 
16 Boone 
22 Scare Crow and Mrs. King 
28 That's Incredible 
34 Survival Special 
16 Johnny Carson Anniversary Special 
22  After MASH  
28  Monday Night Football:  New York  
Jets at Bufialo  
34  Great Performances  
22  Newhart  
22  Emerald Point N.A.S.  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
34  Big Red Football  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Hart to Hart/ Columbo  
28  Newswatch 28  

16 Late Night With David Letterman 
WELJ..., THANKS FO!?. TI..Y!Nf:t 
FEUJIS. H£~[') ONE 
THOUSAND, TWo THOUSIIND, THltE '{I(OUSitND . .. ~EVEN 1HDU~RNb, EtftHf fHOtlf/INIJ 


The Obseroer announces that the winner of this year's campus comic strip contest is "Mellish" by Dave and Dave. "Mellish" will be seen daily on the Today page ofTbe Observer." 
"My turn" ... Well, I'm originally from the shores of the upper Nile aod ... saaaaaaay ... Did anyone ever tell you your pupils are ROUND?" 
ACROSS 
1 Sheepfold 
sounds 
5 Spoke 
9 "-the 
night 
before..." 13 Church list 
of feasts 14 Have a-
by the tail 16 Phraseof 
disbelief 17 Salubrious 19 Ferryboat, 
In Africa 20 Patriots' 
org. 21 State 22 Trees 24 Fumed 
foully 26 Gift 
receiver 27 Home: abbr. 28 Setback 31 Garden 
pest 34 Epic poet 35 Bullfight 
cheer 36 John and Jane 
37 Made bundles 
38 Treasury agent 39 Chicken ­
king 40 Seeps 41 East 
Flanders capital 42 Ailments 



10/3/83 
Saturday's Solution 

18.... ,'PMNM•Nfrrf""' 23 Male ant 25 Goddess of diSCCird 26 Greel( comrnunes 28 Playe1r parts 29 Bate!; the actor 30 Furnished 31 One C)f the Smiths 32 Negril of the sUents 33 Salubrious 34 Birch tree 37 Steam producers 38 Heyerdahl the author 40 Norsegod 41 Pierces with horns 43 Mountain ridge's 44 Mushrooms 46 Monlte­47 True up 48 Yeams 49 Der-­(Adenauer) 50 Appl·e throwaway 51 Rem•ote 53 Darkor Middlle 56 After printemps 57 Pronoun 
44 Pasture -· 
sound 45 Quaver 46 Round up 49 lndehiscent 
fruit 51 Swiss 
river 52 Mauna­54 Atelier 
site 55 Salubrious 58 Authentic 59 Room for a 
horse 60 The Gloomy Dealll 61 Elverand 
spitchcock 62 Cupid 53 Kettle of 
fish 
DOWN 1 Fen1s 2 Bell,l)wing 3 Worship 4 Turf 5 Ranges 6 Published 7 Stravinsky 
or Sikorsky 8 Study 9 Shortcoet 
10 Salubrious 
11 Prince Charles' sister 
12 Top,9rs 15 Toolkoff 


Organizational Meeting 
for I C40LLEGIATE JAZZ Tuesday, Oct. 4 
7-10 p.m.
FESfiVAL Stepan Center t 
I • 

(indoon! oatdoon permitting) t 
"iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.,IIUilles and Music will be provided .l
"' All are welcome 
free of charge ' 
Tuesday, Oct. 4 8:00PM 
(with an I.D. and a pair of socks) t
Chautauqua Ballroom 
~ . . . . . . . . . . ... ''· ' . t 
---------------------~ 
Monday, October 3, :1.983 -page 12
Sports 

Shuts out Toledo, DePaul 
Soccer team routs two more 
ByALGNOZA honesty, becoming boring for the The offense, needless to say, has Sports Writer Irish players. On Friday at Cartier been playing well of late, despite Field, Notre Dame bounced Toledo 
being shut out by Indiana last week.
You could say that the Notre right back to Ohio as freshman Pat "A lot ofourgames are light ones,"Dame soccer team's 7-0 win over Szanto scored three goals, Richard noted Szanto, who also scored twice
Toledo on Friday night was just a Hertegen two, and Bill Beasley and case of the Irish overpowering a Ken Harkenrider one apiece. yesterday. "When you play all these 
easy games and then come to an In·
very talented opponent. What everyone wants to know is You could also say that DePaul is where the heck is the good old diana, it's pretty tough to play well." also a great team and that despite bamburner. Surely there is someone joining Szanto in yesterday's losing to Notre Dame 5·0 yesterday, that can play Notre Dame even up. scoring were joe Howe, who also the Blue Demons will soon be back Maybe not Indiana, but certainly not had two, and Mark Bidinger. on the winning track. Bethel or Toledo or a load of other 
"These light games do help us,"You could even go one or two cripples who meandered onto the reasoned Szanto. "What we do in 
steps further by saying that the Irish schedule. Orange Bowl scouts were at Satur­Notre Dame has won nine games 
see YAWNERS, page 8

day's football game at Colorado, this year, outscoring its opponents planning Notre Dame's future. by a total of 49-0. There's a trend 
The plain truth of all this, there somewhere. however, is that DePaul is bad, On Friday night, starting goalie Toledo is worse, and, well, the only Mark Steranka got help from Carl bowl scouts in Colorado on Saturday Gebo and Hugh Brezlin in shutting were those laid over in Stapleton out the Mud Hens. By the second Airport waiting for a flight to lin­half, Mark's legs were getting stiff coln, Nebraska. and acting coach Hank Hofman 
Blowouts are commonplace for wouldn't let his keeper bring a lawn the Irish soccer team and are, in all chair out to the goal crease. 
lllini rout Hawkeyes, Big Ten up for grabs 
As!IOCiated Press wire-to-wire runaways, the six other 
No sooner does the Big Ten Top Twenty winners all had to come change from the Big Two to the Big from behind. Three when along comes lllinois to Fifth-ranked North Carolina make it a Big Four. trailed Georgia Tech 14-0 and 21·7 
Earlier, Iowa horned in on the before rallying for a 38·21 victory. long-time Michigan-Ohio State Sixth-rated Alabama, which erased a monopoly by climbing past both in I 7-0 deficit and beat Vanderbilt a the Associated Press ratings. But the week ago, fell behind Memphis State fourth-ranked Hawkeyes got some 10-0 and then surged to a 44-1 3 tri· comeuppance of their own Saturday umph. when they were shellacked by Il­
Seventh-ranked West Virginia linois 33·0. 
trailed Pitt twice by seven points, "We weren't near the team we 
but outscored the Panthers 10-0 in have been this year," said Coach 
the second half and pulled out a 24­Hayden Fry. "I don't know why, but 
21 victory on quarterback Jeff Hos­it happens in college football." 
tetler's six-yard run with 6:27 left. Most of what happened over the 
Eighth-rated Ohio State spotted Min· weekend went according to form, al· 
nesota an early 3-0 lead and then though third-ranked Arizona blew a 
roared to a 69-18 rout. 26-3 lead and settled for a 33·33 tie 
Ninth-ranked Oklahoma trailedwith California And there is nothing Kansas State 10-0 after one period, more according to form in college but recovered to lead 13·1 0 byfootball these days than the halftime and won 29-10. And No. 10Nebraska Cornhuskers. 

Auburn scored on Randy Campbell'sThe nation's No. 1-ranked team, 15-yard pass to lionel james withwhose closest call in five games was 1:59 remaining to turn back No. 17last week's 42-10 "squeaker" over Florida State 27-24.

UCLA, battered Syracuse 63-7. 
In the Second Ten, No. 11 GeorgiaRunner-up Texas kept pace with a 42-6 hammering of Rice. 

see COLLEGE, page 10

While Nebraska and Texas posted 

Irish beat up Buffaloes to get back to winning 
By MIKE SULLIVAN the last few weeks (years?) for its SportsEditor play-calling, mixed up the runs and passes very well against an over­
Sure, Notre Dame could have matched Buffalo defense. Realizing scored more points. Sure, Colorado that they had a huge size and moved the ball some on offense. strength advantage over Colorado's Sure, the Buffaloes are not .a great three-man front, the coaches team. Sure, the Colorado campus devised a game plan that relied more and scenery puts South Bend to heavily on the rush than the plan for shame. any ofthe previous three games. 
But, does it really matter? Part of the reason for this was to 
The fact is that the Irish played give Beuerlein some confidence and some of their best football of the make his first start an easy one. Part season, snapping a two-game losing of the reason was that there was no streak in the process, as they rolled way Colorado was going to stop the over the Colorado Buffaloes, 27·3, at run unless they put Ralphie the Buf­Folsom Field on Saturday. falo over the center. 
What really mattered was that the "We felt we were strong enough Notre Dame offensive line, despite to take it right at them," said tailback being crippled by injuries, played its Allen Pinkett, who picked up a best game of the year; that freshman career-high 132 yards in I 8 carries. quarterback Steve Beuerlein looked "We didn't do anything fancy, but impressive in his first start; and that we tried to concentrate on our basic 
the team pushed people around and game plan." jumped around like a psyched-up "We basically went right at them," team should. said Larry Williams who moved out 
"We had some fun out there," said of his usual strong tackle position to senior strong guard Neil Maune. take over the injured Mike Shiner's "The players got together and spot at quick tacklt:. "We had to decided that we were going to play make up our minds to go right for ourselves. through them." 
"There was a big difference today. Plenty of people were able to go We used to go into games so tight, right through them -and quite like we were afraid to lose. But we're easily. Five different backs gained back having fun again." over 30 yards and all three touch­
The people who had the most fun downs were scored by runners who were the running backs that had had big holes to run through. huge holes to run through and The opening drive of the game Beuerlein who had outstanding pass was a good example of the Irish blocking. The backs teamed for 334 game plan working as well as could yards on the ground, almost break­be expected. Notre Dame took con­ing the season-high they set against trol at its own 20 and, in eight plays Purdue in the first game of the -seven rushing, one passing -and season. Their success took a lot of . in less than three-and-one-half heat off Beuerlein, who passed for minutes, the Irish had scored all the 
133 yards on 8-of-12 passing. points they needed. 
"We were hardly ever in the posi­Pinkett was the major contributor tion where we needed to pass," .said in the drive, picking up 66 of the 80 Maune, "so they (the Colorado yards himself. He had a lot of help, defense) never knew when we were though, from the big men up front. going to." .Largely behind the blocking ofsoph· 
The coaching staff, criticized for omore tackle Mike Perrino, who was starting his first game ever in Wil­liams' old spot, Pinkett romped through the Buffalo defense practi· cally untouched. 
But, while the offense seemed to be having its way, so, it seemed, was the Colorado offense. Marching down the field as rapidly as the Irish had, only using the passing attack 
more, the Buffaloes had a first down at the Notre Dame 29. However, the Irish defense came through when it had to and forced the Buffaloes to kick a 43-yard field goal. 
''I'd like to think our defense bent, but didn't break," said Gerry Faust after the game. 
The Notre Dame offense struck back quickly, though, traveling 77 yards in six plays and three minutes. It was in this drive that the in­credible talents of Beuerlein were showcased. He threw five passes during the drive, completing four, although one was called back be­cause ofa penalty. 
Possibly the worst of the four completions produced the best results as Beuerlein threw a floater off the familiar flea-flicker play that joe Howard caught for a 58-yard gain to the Colorado 7. On the next play, Beuerlein called an audible ­something that a freshman in his first start usually does not do -complet­ing a perfectly-thrown pass to tight 
end Mark Bavaro who waltzed into the endzone. The play was called back because ofoffensive pass inter­ference, giving the Irish a second down on the 22. 
After a badly-overthrown pass in­tended for Smith, Beuerlein threw his best pass of the day, a bullet that Bavaro caught inside the 10-yard line. Bavaro was ruled down on the 4 on what should have been a 22-yard 
see BUFFS, page 10 



