= 
• • • Hitler-page 5 

VOL XVII, NO. 137 th~ intkpcnd~ll! ~tudcnt ncw~pap~r ~~n·ing notre dame and ~aim mal!·~ TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 1983 

Shultz calls for foreign troop withdrawal, continues diplomacy 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -Secretary ofState George P. Shultz said yester· day he thinks he can win an agree­ment for withdrawal of foreign troops from Lebanon, and indicated the United States would offer to help guarantee Israel's security to speed an accord. 
"President Reagan has sent me here to show America's determina­tion to help in the process of peace in the Middle East," Shultz said following his 13-hour journey from Washington. 
He said he would stay in the region as long as there was ho t pe of achieving a withdrawal agreement, which he described as "very do­able." 
Shultz indicated, however, the ac­tual timetable for getting about 60,000 foreign troops out of Lebanon may be worked out later. 
Shultz said he would bring up the possibility of an expanded U.S. role in Lebanon during discussions with Israeli and Lebanese leaders. 
Shultz told reporters he also may discuss Reagan's faltering Middle East peace initiative during his trip, but that his chidaim will be a troop withdrawal agreement. 
He said he has ideas for resolving some of the disputes between Israel and Lebanon, which focus on security in south Lebanon, and is prepared to shuttle between the two countries if necessary. 
"I'm prepared to work at it as long as it seems there is a chance to ac­complish something," Shultz told reporters accompanying him on the flight from Washington. 
Shultz indicated that he would tell 
I 
the Israelis the Reagan administra­tion will help guarantee protection for Israel against terrorist attacks from Lebanon following a troop withdrawal. 
"We are part of this negotiating process, and we want to see it succeed, and we certainly are prepared to stay with it after an agreement and a leaving of the forces from Lebanon takes place," Shultz said. 
"Just what role the United States might play is going to be part of this discussion," Shultz added. 
On his arrival in Cairo, Shultz said the road to peace "is a long journey" but added, "I feel confident we will t1nd our destination." 
"We will play a full part, as full partners, in this great enterprise for peace," he said. 
Shultz said he planned to discuss the withdrawal talks with Mideast envoy Philip C. Habib, but added Habib and Reagan's other Mideast troubleshooter, Morris Draper, "have gone about as far as they pos­sibly can" toward an agreement. 
During the afternoon, Shultz met with U.S. ambassadors from key Middle East countries, including Is­rael, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Tunisia. Habib sat in on the meeting, State Department spokesman John Hughes said. 

May Day demonstrations 

Cardinal Glemp warns workers 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Roman Catholic primate Cardinal Jozef Glemp has warned Polish workers it could be dangerous to join the May Day demonstrations called by
Midshipman Allen Flath receives the Distinguished Naval 
Solidarity underground leaders, a
Graduate award at ceremonies heldyesterday. The Secretary ofthe 
Catholic newspaper reported yes­
Navy gives this annual award to an outstanding senior in each 
terday.
detachment. 
ROTC awards 

Midshipmen honored at ceremony 
By AMY STEPHAN 
StaffReporter 
Outstanding midshipmen were honored at yesterday's annual Naval ROTC awards ceremony. 
Richard McMonagle was named the Marine Corps Association Honor Graduate and received the Strake Foundation award, which is given to the senior who has shown the hig­hest academic and military achieve­ment during his time in ROTC. 
Allen Flath was honored as the Distinguished Naval Graduate, an award which is given by the Secretary of the Navy to the out­standing senior midshipman in each NROTC unit in the country. As part of this award, Flath attended a tes­timonial dinner in Annapolis earlier this month. 
U.S. Navy Good Conduct Awards were given to Chief Gary Johnson, ChidYeoman, and Chief Max Darah, Chief Storekeeper. This was Darah's fifth award and Johnson's fourth. 
Roger Brown received the Navy League-NW Indiana Council Special Achievement Award for his work as Supply Officier. Brown was also chosen by his fellow senior midship­men as the recipient of the Edward Easby-Smith Award. 
Four freshmen College Program midshipmen received scholarships. Philip Cohlan, Terrance Falk, Mark McGovern and Raymond Sweeney were awarded scholarships because of their overall scholastic achieve­ment and military aptitude. 
Michael Popovich won the Marine Corps League Physical Fit­nessAward, because he obtained the highest average score on the physi­cal fitness tests given twice a year. 
Christopher Hatfield received the Reverend]. Hugh O'Donnell Award for his achievement over four years in Naval Science. 
A watch was presented to Peter Quast as the winner of the Kevin ]. Conway Memorial Navigation Award. This award is presented to the junior midshipman with the hig­hest achievement in navigation. 
The Commanding Officer's Award of Merit was given to John Kurth for his work in furthering NROTC with­in the community. 
Daniel Shannon received the American Defense Preparedness As­sociation Award and William H. Stef· fens received the General Dynamics Award. 
The Daughters of the American Revolution Medal Award was presented to Gregory Hauth. Two freshmen, Patrick Baccanari and Michael Leary, received the Sons of the American Revolution Awards. 
Senior Daniel Sweeney and junior Robert Piwko received Bendix Post 284 American Legion Awards. Both midshipmen rank in the top ten per­cent of their respective academic classes. 
The National Sojourners Award was presented to junior Kirk Shawan for his demonstration of Americanism and overall academic achievement. 

Reserve Officers Association ofln­diana Awards were presented to: Brian Buescher, senior; Stephen Brown, junior; Kevin Brenton, soph­
omore; and  Edmond  Kelly,  fresh­ 
man.  
Naval  Institute  Awards  were  

presented to freshmen Timothy Flanagan and Raymond Sweeney for high achievement in Naval Science. 
see ROTC, page 6 

Solidarity chief Lech Walesa returned to the Lenin shipyard in Gdansk where he led the August 1980 strike that helped create the independent union. 
Walesa underwent a medical ex­amination and a safety refresher course at the yard yesterday and was to consult his t boss in the yard today. He said he could resume his duties as an electrician as early as tomor­row. Walesa was interned with most other Solidarity leaders under the martial law deree of December 1981. After his release from intern­ment last Nov. II, he drew a salary from the union. 
Glemp's warning, in a speech Sun­day in the central Polish city of Gniezno, was carried in the daily Slowo Powszechne, published by the Catholic lay organization Pax which has close ties to the Com­munist government. Neither Glemp nor other church officials could be reached for comment on his remarks. 
The church has never defined a way of celebrating the international workers' holiday, Glemp said, hut he added that it was the church's duty to warn ofdanger. 
"Whenever there are demonstra­tions, events unintended by the or­ganizers occur," Glemp said. His remarks appeared to be in response to a warning by the government and ruling Communist Party that street unrest, such as May Day demonstra­tions, could jeopardize the June 16­22 visit of t Polish-born Pope John Paull!. 
Police commander Jozef Beim told a parliamentary council yester­day that "all attempts at weakening the state, being tantamount to strik­ing at the nation's welfare, will en­counter a resolute and prompt response from the forces of law and order." His remarks, reported on state-run Polish television, were taken to mean that police would respond with force to any pro­Solidarity demonstrations. 
see POLAND, page 4 
Wins top award 

Scholastic voted best in region 
By HELEN LUCAITIS 
News Staff 
Scholastic, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's monthly magazine has been honored with numerous awards this year. 
Scholastic recently received a first place award for best all-around student magazine in its region -In­diana, Illinois, and Kentucky, in the annual Mark of Ex­cellence contest sponsored by the Society of Professional Journalists. 
It also received a tlrst place award for best non-fiction article in the same contest. The article by Pat Pitz, in last year's April/May issue, looked at companies that sell term papers. 
These awards qualifyScholastic for national competi­tion with t1rst place winners from other regions. 
Scholastic also won many awards earlier this mo t nth from the Indiana Collegiate Press Association, including "Magazine of the Year" and 26 other awards in various categories. 

"Usually we'll do pretty well in the state competi­tion," said General Manager, Pat Pitz. "But this year we changed a lot in production. In the past we used a prin­ter, where this year we did our own layout, so we could do a lot more fancy stuff." Pitz feels that "the articles are high quality because we have the time to really explore a topic." 
Beth Healy, Scholastic's editor last year, credits all of 
the awards to the new layout and depth, and says, "the 
design is a more readable and pleasurable fashion." 
Next year's editor, Jim Ganther, says that "both Beth Healey and Chuck Wood, who was editor the year before, are a tough act to follow. They are responsible for the magazine's upgrading." 
Ganther says he wants to continue the high quality. "Next year I want to have more voice from Saint Mary's. It is the mission ofScholastic to keep its finger on the pulse of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community, and that seems to have been forgotten in years past. Our new Saint Mary's editor, Kathy Curran, is anxious to see increased coverage of that end of the world." 

.---­
[ 
I I 
~ 
I 
-~~-----·~---~----­
Tuesday, April 26, 1983 -page 2



NewsBrieb 
c=~========~================================ 
by The Ohserl'('r and The As.rmiated Prerr 
Notre Dame biologyprofessor'Harvey Ben­der, director of the Regional Genetics Center at South Bend Memorial Hospital, has joined the recently formed advisory group for the Genetic Diseases Program of the Indiana State Board of Health. The Genetic Advisory Committee and its subcommittees will represent Indiana's public interests in developing programs and policies for the Statewide Genetic Diseases Services Project. The committee's initial work will focus upon the State Board of Health's implementation ofan expanded newborn screening program. l_t will eventually assist the Genetic Diseases Section with genetic evalua­tion and counseling matters, implementation ofgenetics education programs for professionals and the public, genetic diseases and services data collection and the social, ethical and legal issues • surrounding genetic disorder treatment. -The Observer 
The Women's Caucus will hold its Potluck Supper today at the Center for Social Concerns coffeehouse. The dinner will be served at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
A motorboat capsized during a windswept outing on the Gulfof Mexico killing four people on board, the Coast Guard said yesterday. Rescue crews continued searching for a fifth victim believed drowned when the boat flipped over Saturday afternoon. The capsized boat, which began its trip in Freeport, Texas, was spotted by an oil company helicopter. Small craft advisories had been posted because ofwinds gusting up to 20 knots. -AP 
Significant amounts of PCB's and pesticides are present in some Wisconsin waters, according to a state study. Fish and sediment were taken from dozens of sampling stations around Lake Michigan, Lake Superior and their three major tributary streams from 1979 to 1981. The study, conducted by the State Department of Natural Resources, found that fish from Lake Superior and its tributaries were of high quality, but fish from Lake Michigan and its tributaries showed contamination. The study, whose results were issued last week, found PCB levels high enough to cause concern in parts ofLake Michigan's tributaries, the Milwaukee, Sheboygan, Kin­nickinnic, Menononee, Pike, Root and Fox Rivers. -AP 
The U.S. Postal Service has commissioned a stamp in honor ofthe Tennessee Valley Authority and plans to issue it May 18, the 50th anniversary of TVA's creation by Congress. The TVA plans anniversary activities including the unveil t ing of the com­memorative stamp at the Federal Agency's Knoxville Headquarters. The 20-cent stamp shows water spilling over the face of Norris Dam, the first dam TVA constructed in its hydroelectric system. The stamp's illustration also depicts an electricity generaling station. ­
AP 

Communist Partyand government officials are taking· courses in basic Marxist-Leninist theory via television, China's offi-. cial Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. Anybody with a televi­sion set can watch the lectures, given by nine professors and associate professors from the Chinese People's University in Peking, but the officials have formally signed up for the courses. Xinhua did not say whether the officials would be tested. After the first lecture the television station was flooded with callers asking for Professor Sung Tao to slow down his presentation so people could take notes, it said. Courses in philosophy and political economics, shown on Tuesday and Saturday afternoons, began recently and will last until the end ofJune, Xinhua said. -AP 
An organization ofWestern psychiatrists has proposed sending a delegation to the Soviet Union to investigate reports that political dissidents are being held in mental hospitals, but one official said Monday she doubted the Soviets would permit the visit. A weekend meeting of the Paris-based International As­sociation on the Political Abuse of Psychiatry approved the project, initiated by a French group ofprivate practitioners, a statement said. Catherine Kuhn, president ofte Association's Swiss section, said yes­terday she did not expect Soviet authorities to agree to such a visit, but that the project nevertheless stressed that the issue remains of concern to "all those waiting to preserve the quality and integrity of psychiatry worldwide." The statement said the Association had knowledge of"about 500 documented cases ofpolitical use ofpsyc­hiatry in the Soviet Union since 1962," but that the total was running "into thousands." The meeting was convened to prepare for the WPA Congress in Vienna in July. -AP 
Summer temperatures today with highs in the mid and upper 70s. The warm trend continues tomorrow with sun­ny skies and a slight breeze expected. -The Observer 
Off-campus priests? 
Imagine this scenario: Father Van Wolvlear, known to his friends as Van, laboring over a sink of sudsy water, while he scrapes dried baked bean matter off a plate. A rangy cat saunters across the floor, a freshly caught mouse still wiggling in his mouth. Near the refrigerator, Father Heppen sprays assorted foamy concoctions in a futile effort to erradicate a foul odor. Meanwhile in the living room Father joyce is sitting atop a moth-eaten easy chair propped up on one side with bricks from the Old Fieldhouse. A crushed Old Milwaukee bounces off a far wall, as that cavalcade of minor sports known as ESPN flickers on the black and white T.V. Outside, eight cold generic weenies lie limp atop a rusty grill. Father Hesburgh, known as Ted to his friends, squirts some more generic lighter fluid onto the generic charcoal. He has yet to get a flicker. 
The scene above takes place in a ramshackle house on St. Louis Street about one-half mile south ofcampus. The yard is muddy, the drainpipes are askew, and the 
corroding sedans parked out 
back are missing their hub­
caps. The scene portrayed 
above can be a reality if the 
following plan is imple­
mented: 
Move the clergy off­
campus. 
For an eon, members of the Holy Cross order have called Notre Dame's campus home. Who can blame them: the pastoral lakes, playful 

_ducks, and shady trees make 
this place a park. Unfor­
tunately, living here all these 6 
years has rna. !e them 
protective of the place ­
perhaps overly-protective. 
At most universities, the top 
administrators come to 

work, shuffle their paperwork, expel a few delinquents, and then go home to unlisted phone numbers. Their campuses are left in the hands of assorted hall staff members and security forces whose job it is to keep the place in line. 
Here at Notre Dame, though, things are different. Af­ter a hard day at the Dome, many of our wp leaders return to their sparse living quarters in Corby Hall or assorted dorms. Living on campus, they are with the students twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, numerous months a year. These crusading men in black are able to closely examine every student activity. After years ofkegs, campus screams, and other forms ofrevel­lry, even the most valiant must feel the strain. That's why it is time for the folks from Corby Hall to pack up their bags and move to the pastoral settings of off­campus. Here, priests could loosen their collars and relax without being disturbed by actics ofstudents. 
The plan could be had for a song. Scores of off-
Design Editor.............................. Tim Neely Design Assistant.......................... Tom Sapp La)'out Staff......................... Carole Laugier Typesetters ...........Jim MacLennan, Rabbit News Editors ...................... Kathleen Doyle Cop)' Editor..................................... Dan May Sports Cop)' Editor............... Mike Sullivan 
t:ditorials Layout.....................Tari Brown 
TJ'pists ..................................... Tari and Mike ND Day Editor ............................Jane Panfil SMC Dlly Editor .................... Tari yet again Ad Design ................................Jeannie Euch Photographer.......................... Paul Cifarelli Guest Appearances ... Amy 'now I get too 
much respect!' Stephan, with Pete 'no awards' Laches, a dozing Dziedzic, a 
mini-party, and a sick system and don't forget Tom 'pop-tarts' Small. and· uh! the 
humanity -Observer romances in bloom 
all over the place ~ 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and 
on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods. The 

The moose is Loose at macri's 
Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's Col­lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P 0 Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

.75¢ MOOSEHEAD ~ 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction 

Tues. April 26 5 pm-·close :l
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre 


macri's located behind Jeremiah Sweeney's ~ 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 
o 



Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor Emeritus 
Inside Tuesday 


campus residences could be purchased for peanuts. Al­though many are in disrepair, what better way to relieve stress than to bang away with a hammer on weekends? During the few days of warmth here in Michiana, the priests could engage in light gardening. Not only bring­ing in a few fresh veggies to round out their diets, but also improving their neighborhood appearance with a few blossoms. 
Ofcourse with all the priests happily hanging out ­or in this case -off, what will be done with Corby Hall? 
Located next to Sacred 
Heart Church, this aging 
structure commands views 
of the Grotto, the lakes, and
•0 
the Bookstore dumpster. 
The exodus of priests is 
bound to displace many fur­
mer off-campusers. They 
can be given shelter in the 
new t:o-ed Corby Hall. After 
all, most people move off­
campus in search of an al­
ternative life-style. So to 
attract them back, certain 
concessions would be 
necessary. Also, this would 
settle for all time the ques­
tion of whether men and 
women living together in a 
dorm would increase the 
probability of lightening ­

bolts (or worse) in the area. An additional source of revenue for the University could be derived by locating a business in the basement. Now, let's see ... it should improve social life for those on-campus, and the structure is named Corby Hall, and the priests would probably prefer a quiet off-campus setting, so ... 
Moving the priests off campus would mean that stu­dents would have more responsibility in enforcing In Loco Parentis. It would also mean that late night screaming sessions outside of third floor Dome win­dows would be reduced, allowing more time to study. Perhaps the best reason, however, lies with the phrase. "Absence makes the heart grow fonder." 
The Notre Dame security guard in yesterday's page 3 photograph was incorrectly identified. The guard was Officer Smee. -The Obsert•er 




The Observer Tuesday, April 26, 1983 -page 3 


Senate requests senior donation of refunds 
machine in Badin Hall and will look
By TOM MOWLE 
into the cost involved. 
This summer, Callaghan an­
Seniors were encouraged to nounced, seats in the Engineering donate their fifty dollar room Auditorium will be upholstered, deposit refund to the financial aid new seats will be placed in Washing­office by the Student Senate at their ton Hall, and the first floor of 
meeting last night. LaFortune will be renovated. He said 
Noting that financial aid is more this "shows some commitment on difficult to obtain now, Student their part to get some things done." Body President Brian Callaghan said If the plans for the Engineering 
it would be "a very good gesture onn Auditorium do not include slanting the part ofthe Senior Class, especial­the floor, District 3 Senator Dave ly those who got aid" while they McAvoy advised, "Push for it!" 
were here. Potholes m the D-6 parking lot 
Callaghan plans to have a letter will be repaired over the ~ummer, sent to all seniors to encourage them Bertino said, and drainage will be to make this donation. The proposal improved. He talked to Physical passed unanimously. 
Copy Editor 
Plant Director Dan Dedrick, Vice 
The Senate also discussed having a President for Student Affairs Father homecoming celebration next year john Van Wolvlear, and Mason about which. Callaghan said, "would be paving the lot as well. They told him like a fall An Tostal." they will get estimates on the cost, 
The event would include the elec­but expect it to "require a huge out­
tion of a king and queen and the lay offunds." 
building of floats. Floats would be Bertino also looked into the built by a men's and women's dorm Stepan basketball court lights and working together, incorporating said Dedrick and Mason made a 
Saint Mary's dorms; and could be "commitment to have lights in­partially funded by student govern­stalled on four courts." ment. Possible dates for Homecom­
Hall Presidents Council Chairman ing are November 19 against Air Mike Carlin said the council has set 
Force or November 5 against Pitts­up a committee to look into a co­burgh. residential proposal because the Student Union Director Dave members "couldn't back a specific 
Drouillard noted that Homecoming 
proposal and didn't want to commit "hasn't gone over here like at other to any position." Callaghan agreed universities. It has potential, but on­
with their decision and noted that ly if you go through the halls." Cal­the best idea would be to decide laghan is looking for someone to 
which dorms would be most ap­serve as chairperson for Homecom­
propriate to use before finishing the ing. proposal. It will not be pos~ible to use the 
The three executive coordinators North Dining Hall basement for a 
ofstudent government, Jim Slattery, laundry, Callaghan announced. He John Gallagher, and Theresa Ross, said Vice President for Business Af­described some of the projects fairs Thomas ). Mason told him the being worked by the commis­
on basement restrooms are needed for 
sioners under them. These include some students. The Senate is 
setting up a physical education rota­continuing to consider alternatives. tion on alcohol, drugs, and health District I Senator Rob Bertino 
concerns; organizing programs said he talked to Dean Winter, direc­relating to the 1984 elections; and tor ofvending services, about install­working more closely with off­ing a bill-changing machine in the 
campus and transfer students. laundry under Badin Hall. He said 
The Senate commended the workthe security is not tight enough 
done hy jay Reidy on An Tostal. 
there for this, but Winter told him one could be installed in the South Next week, at their last meeting of Dining Hall this summer. the year, the Senate will approve a In addition. Bertino said Bob Wat­student government budget and fis­kins, director of support services, cal policy for next year and discuss a favors placing a detergent vending change in the shuttle bus route. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Reagan administration's attempts to spur major reductions in Soviet land-based missiles have "virtually no chance" at the bargaining table, a Carnegie panel said yest.erday. 
The bipartisan group also expressed reservations about a nuclear freeze, saying that could prove a "two­edged sword" by precluding the development of weapons which actually could enhance strategic balance. 
The Kremlin's rigid bureaucracy, wedded to long­term military planning, is highly unlikely to agree to radically reduce the heavy intercontinental ballistic missiles which account for about 75 per cent ofSoviet nuclear strength, said the report. 
But while implicitly criticizing the administration's proposals for a strategic arms reduction treaty and its stress on air-tight verification procedures, the panel said the Soviets may be willing to accept more limit restrictions on nuclear weapons. 
"While (Leonid) Brezhnev's passing and Yuri Andropov's accession to the top post produced some tentative signs of shifts in Soviet policy at home and abroad, there were no signs that the new leadership would reverse course in arms control," the report said. 
It was prepared by the Carnegie Endowment's Panel on U.S. Security and the Future of Arms Control. The chairmen were William G. Hyland, a leading analyst on Soviet affairs in the Nixon and Ford administrations, and joseph S. Nye Jr.. a security specialist under President 

Mike Heineman and john Hand enjoy the warm weather, now that Spring has final(y arrived. With An Tostal over and finals not for 
By Carnegie panel 

Freeze seen as 'double-sided' 
mcGann fot mayor 
Malaria 



-~~Vote may 3td
WHO official cites new strains "Committed to uphold student rights... " 
GENEVA, Switzerland (AP) -Willard. "Nor are rumors that a new Campbell. the chief of the CDC's Since 19'iS, the World Health Or­vaccine will soon solve the malaria malaria branch. ·-----------------------~
I Last chance to pick up the 1983 Dome : 
ganization has struggled against problem entirely true." malaria, and for a time many experts The disease is caused by single­I I believed the debilitating, and W110 c~ttmatc:~ nc:w malana casc:s cell parasites, injected into the 1 Tuesday, April26 11·4 p.m. 1 at about 7. S million per year, double bloodstream by a mosquito. When
sometimes fatal disease, would the rate of I 0 years ago, with most the organisms enter the body, they
become a forgotten danger. cases found in Southeast Asia, South become lodged in the liver and mul­




!l!ilJ l!Jl) (!IIJ[!U]l!lt) :
·sur today, experts at WHO head­America, Central America and the tiply. After several days, they travel quarters believe that -!0 percent of equatorial region 9f Africa. There is into the bloodstream, causing high I I
Show N.D. undergraduate I.D. at the Stepan 
mankind is still threatened by the no accurate count ofmalaria deaths. fevers and chills. 1 1 disease -and that old solutions no 1 Courts, then pick up your book at the truck 1 longer work against new strains of The parasites can attack different 
I in the parking lot. I
mosquitos and malarial parasites. TUESDAY parts of the body. In the cerebral type ofthe disease, the onset is rapid 
~-----------------------~
"While past programs have not with delirium and coma, and death been a failure, we are still a long way can occur in several hours without I
FOCUS

from reaching our goal," said Ned return to consciousness. I Willard, a W'IIO spokesman. ... I "VIalaria is a problem most govern­And some strains of mosquitos are I
Although the United States is con­
ments wish would just disappear, becoming more resistant to the pes­I
sidered free of homegrown malaria, · 
hut instead it is wor~ening." ticides used in uadation. 
I

the number of cases doubled be­
I

Viany countries, which a tew years tween 197H and 1980, with I,86--1 WHO rsearchers say that in 196H, 
I

ago were on the point ofannouncing reported in 19HO, said the Centers :Hl species of the Anopheles 
I

the eradication of malaria, are strug­for Disease Control in Atlanta. But mosquitos, which carry the malaria gling with an onslaught of pesticide­these cases involved travelers parasite, were resistant to one or I resistant mosquitos and returning from outside the country more types of commonly used pes­I drug-resistant parasites, the WHO or recent immigrants. ticides. By 197'i, however, the figure I says. had risen to 42 species and by 1980, I 
The agency expects between 700 51 species, including all the main I "Rumors that the disease has been and 800 cases in the United States malaria-carrying species, the resear­I eradicated in India are false," said during 1983, said Dr. Kent chers·say. 
I 
I 
Carter. 

The report cautioned against freeze proposals that might tempt one side to strike first and said making deep cuts in nuclear arsenals would not necessarily reduce the risk ofwar. 
"Small numbers of weapons could invite preemption or create uncertainties about the perceived stability of the militarv balance," it said. 
While there is wide public support for some sort of freeze, the panel said freezing technology could be a "two-edged sword." While some threatening systems would be stopped, a freeze could also prevent such developments as the Stealth bomber or a new single­warhead, land-based missile that many experts consider the best approach to ICBM stability, the report said. 
At the same time, the panel said that while there is "persuasive evidence" that the Soviets have violated treaties banning biological weapons. they are not the "dedicated arms cheaters" that critics accuse them of being. 
The Soviets "press at the ambiguities" of the 1972 treaty limiting strategic nuclear weapons but the record "does not show any case ofdeliberate violations ofagreed limits," the panel said. 
Assessing various arms control plans, the report favored those that would eliminate multiple-warhead intercontinental ballistic missiles. Converting them to single-warhead missiles "greatly reduces the incentive to strike that force in a crisis," the panel said. 
''Quitting 
I I 
is a I I snap:' I I "''m gonna help you I break the cigarette habit 
I 
with my 'Larry Hagman 
I
Special Stop Smokin· 
I
Wrist Snappin' Red Rub­
I

ber Band: Get one free from your American I Cancer Society." I 

I I I I 

The Observer Tuesday, April 26, 1983 -page 4 
Erratic orbit 


NASA engineers rescue satellite 

The Observer/Paul Citarelli 

Brian Parker, a sophomore from Cavanaugh Hall, braves the rare sunny, spring weather to haul in a football passyesterday on North Quad. 
~~~,-···---·A~·;;;;;;-~i;g~:::~·-·-·--·-·---·-····-1 
i Applications for i i ass t manaq€Rs I BaRt€nb€RS I OooRm€n i I Apply Wed., April 27th 5:00 i
. .
................................................................................................................................. 
Let's Give It A Try 


~.....usus ~JCihi!t~~z.. 

theyellow 
SusmaRJn€ 
For Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy Cross Every Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday Evening 9 · 12pm 
Free Delivery · Every V2 hour 
Drivers carry under $15.00 

YOUR BSN IS WORTH AN OFFICER'S COMMISSION IN THE ARMY. 
Your BSN means you're a professional nurse. In the Army, it also means you're an officer. You start as a full-fledged member of our medical team. Call your local Army Nurse Corps Recuiter. Or stop by. 
, 

Sergeant Dan Clawson 1310 Franklin Street Michigan City (219) 872·8634 

ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Nasa en· gineers have rescued a $22 million satellite -itself aimed at helping rescue survivors ofairplane and ship accidents -from spinning uselessly in space. And they are preparing to save an errant communications satellite carried aloft by the shuttle Challenger. 
Jim Elliott, spokesman for the Na· tiona! Aeronautics and Space Ad· ministration, said yesterday that the environmental monitoring satellite called NOAA·E was finally in place -after a month of spinning like a propeller -and is ready to serve as the first spaceborne American search and rescue system. 
The search and rescue satellite was launched into a near-perfect polar orbit from Vandenberg Air Force Base March 28, but its attitude control thrusters fired wildly and sent it into a spin. 

The firing of ' the thrusters deprived the craft of propellant, and engineers turned to gyroscopes and momentum wheels aboard the satellite, planning to use Earth's magnetism to stabilize the craft. 
One radioed command, on April 

2, slowed the satellite so it tumbled 
end-over-end once every three 
hours. Two weeks later, while the 
spacecraft was over Gilmore, Alaska, 
another command began the 
stabilizing procedure. Engineers are 
checking out the satellite's subsys· 
terns and turning on its six environ· 
mental monitoring instruments and 
the search and rescue equipment. 
The American satellite joins two Soviet satellites capable of locating downed airplanes and foundering ships. 
In the second rescue operation, NASA engineers are readying at­tempts to push the world's biggest and most ·expensive communica­tions satellite 9,000 miles through space into proper orbit. 
The s·wo million Tracking Data and Relay Satellite was carried aloft by the shuttle Challenger on April 4. It went into a misshapen orbit when the engine on an attached rocket quit too early. 
Instead of a circular path, 22,300 miles above Earth, the satellite, called TORS, has been traveling a loop 22,000 miles at the high point to 13,600 miles at the low end. 
If the tests are satisfactory, thrus­ters will be fired three hours a day for two weeks to get the satellite to a circular orbit. Once in place, TORS will be able to relay signals from up to 26 satellites to a ground station in New Mexico and will be used to keep in touch with space shuttles nearly all the time they are in space. 
Growth rate 




Census shows metropolitan drop 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The lure of cities that drew millions of Americans away from the countryside seems to be easing, with metropolitan areas growing more slowly than the nation as a whole. 
The 1980 Census counted 226,546,000 Americans, up 11.4 percent from 1970. The number of residents of metropolitan areas was 169,431,000, up only I 0.1 percent in the same period. 
"The results of the 1980 Census have confirmed a remarkable ten· dency toward population decon­centration," said John F. Long of the Bureau's population projection branch. 
He added that the trends of population dispersal "represent marked turnarounds from the basic patterns of population redistribu­tion that were taken for granted in the 1960s. t " 
California was the most urban state by 1980; Wyoming the least. 
The only area where metropolitan growth outpaced total growth was in the South, where the number of 
Mr. C. T. Parmerlee Private Detective 
Parmerlee Detective Agency 
-----~~*---·--­
530 1/2 Carroll St., Apt. B South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 288-6621 
CONTACT LENS Replacements & Spares AS LOW AS 

$14.95 
Call for details 

1 800 255-2020
i EYE CONTACT i; P.O. Box 7770 ~Shawnee Mission, KS 66207i 
1............................................................ 


people living in metropolitan areas increased 21.5 percent over the decade, while the total of the region grew 19.9 percent. 
The biggest jump in big-city population occurred in the West ­a 21.9 percent increase from 1970 to 1980. But the total. population of the region rose nearly 24 percent. 
In the North Central states, metropolitan-area population grew 
2.7 percent, while the total increase was four percent. And in the North· east, the number of people living in metropolitan areas dropped 1.9 per· cent from 1970 to 1980, while the overall population rose by 0. 1 5 per­cent. 
How can you tell whether you are one of those metropolitan people? 

According to the Census Bureau, you qualify if you live in one of its Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas. There are 318 such areas joined by social and economic ties generally surrounding ClUes of 50,000 or more. That allows for in· elusion of both cities and their sub· urbs in metropolitan statistics. 
There were only 243 SMSAs in 1970, but the Bureau has adjusted its statistics to compensate for the addi· tions. 

California is the most urban state in the nation with 94.9 percent ofits residents within metropolitan areas. 



Profs discuss Volcker reappointment to term 
By CINDY BOYLE 
News Staff 

Politicians, businessmen, and economists are all asking themselves the same question: Will President Reagan reappoint Paul A. Volcker, F.ederal Reserve Board Chairman, to a new four year term by the August 6 deadline? 
Several Saint Mary's faculty members speculated on Volcker's chances of being reappointed. Patrick A. Pierce, of the Saint Mary's government department, said "It is unlikely that Volcker will con· tinue. I think that Volcker has done pretty much what Reagan would like him to be doing in spite of Reagan's comment." 
"In terms of a stable economic environment, I think that Volcker has done a fairly good job," added Pierce. 
Dr. Frank Yeandel, assistant professor in the business/economics department at Saint Mary's, agn.·es that Volcker has done a good job but that he will not be reappointed. In terms of potential successors, Yeandel said that "the field is wide open, and no one candidate has a better chance than any one of the others." Yeandel added that the choice for a successor to Volcker is "all in the dark recesses of Reagan's mind since he is the authority." 
Dr. Jerry McElroy, associate professor ofeconomics at Saint Mary's, sees Volcker's chances from a different perspective. "The chance for Volcker's reappointment is certainly 50-50 in my mind, but I think that he may stay," said McElroy. "He has certainly helped the cause of recession," he commented, "but, on the other hand, the reduction of inflation is also due to the strengthening ofthe dollar." 
It is expected that Reagan will make his decision on the reappoint· ment early in June. 
• Poland 

continuedfrom page 1 
Although Glemp has repeatedly endorsed free trade unions and called for the release of political prisoners from Polish jails, he has drawn criticism from militant priests who say he is taking a con­ciliatory line toward the govern· ment. 
The leaders of Solidarity, which was outlawed after the declaration of martial law, issued the May Day proteM (;ali aner a clandestine meeting with Walesa April 9·11. 
Walesa has not publicly endorsed the protest, but he declared last Wednesday that workers have the right to celebrate May Day in any way they please. He also said Solidarity supporters would demonstrate peacefully unless provoked by police. 
Authorities have not yet disclosed plans of official marches scheduled for May I, a major holiday in the Soviet bloc. 
• 

---------~------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 


Divers make contact with trapped explorers 
MOUNT VERNON, Ky. (AP) -A team of divers made physical con­tact last night with eight spelunkers trapped for two days in a southeast­ern Kentucky cave by rising waters, and the explorers are in "good shape" and able to walk out of the cave, officials said. 
Earlier in the evening, two rescue divers found a handwritten note that said that the eight were alive and waiting 1,800 feet inside the cave. The amateur explorers became trapped inside the cave Saturday when a sudden rainstorm caused a stream inside the cave to rise and seal the only escape route. 
The four-man diving team, in the third artempt ofthe day to reach the trapped party, found the spel­lunkers, said Jim Burch, the coor­dinator of the Warren County Cave and Rock Rescue Team. 
"All four (divers) came out :md reported all the victims are in good shape," said Burch. "We're getting another load of supplies to them ... Now we'll wait for much better con­ditions. We'll wait until a lot more water goes down before we try to bring them out. We don't want to hurt them on the way up." 
The divers carried in extra cloth­ing, heat packs and food to the ex­plorers and came out to get more to bring inside, Burch said. 
Burch said the water level near the cave mouth must drop another four inches before the explorers can be taken out. 
"They've made contact with the cavers. Everybody's fine," said Tom Staubitz. vice chairman of the Greater Cincinnati Grotto, the club to which the explorers belong. "They're a little cold. We're going to take some things in, wool clothing, sleeping, that sort of thing. They're all in perfect health, no hypother­mia. They're in good spirits and fully able to walk out under their own power." 
The explorers' note, signed by the exploring team's co-leader Mary Bush, was headlined "HELP" in large, capital letters. It said: 
"Eight cavers waiting 1,800 feet upstream from here. Leave diving tanks here. Only needed for entrance. Been here since 11 a.m. Sat 4-23. Now Mon 4-25 12 noon." 
Staubitz had joyously announced the find:ng of the note, saying the eight were waiting on a dry ledge 1,800 feet upstream from where the note was found in an empty supply box. 

Socialists gain lead in national elections 
LISBON, Portugal (AP) Socialist candidates gained an early lead yesterday in national elections that were expected to return the party to power, but without a majority in the 250-seat Parliament. 
The elections were held on the ninth anniversary of a military coup that ended a half-century of right­wing dictatorships. 
With half the 4,050 precincts reporting, the official count showed the Socialists leading with 34 per­cent of the vote followed by the So­cial Democrats with 28.5 percent, t~e Communists wirh 18.7 percent and Christian Democrats with 12.5 percent. 
State-run television predicted the Socialists would win up to 38 per­cent and 102 seats, the Social Democrats up to 25 percent for 72 seats, the Communists up to 19 per· cent and the Christian Democrats as much as 14.5 percent. 
12 parties and two alliances en­tered candidates. Final results were not expected until the absentee bal­lots were counted today. 
In the 1980 legislative elections, Social Democrats and Christian Democrats running as the center­right Democratic Alliance polled 
47.2 percent. The Socialists followedwith 28 percent and the Communists with 16.9 percent. 
Former Socialist Prime Minister Mario Soares has indicated he would seek to form a coalition with the centrist Social Democrats if his party takes the largest share of the vote but lacks a majority of seats. Soare's Socialists led the government from early 1976 throughJune 1978. 

Researchers injured in laboratory explosion 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) ­Three Purdue researchers suffered minor injuries last night in an explo­sion at the university's Aerospace Science Laboratory. The blast ap· parently occurred after a crack developed in a pressurized plastic cylindercontainingfreon and steam. 
The workers, Vinod Jain, David Reagan, and Henry Amarasooriya, were treated at the university's hospital for minor cuts and released. 
Theofanis G. Theofanous, profes­sor of Nuclear Engineering and head of the project, said he could only "speculate" whf the three-year-old machine failed. He said the four-foot cylinder, which handled the experi­ment three months ago, could have had a design flaw or the pressure could have been greater than ex­pected. 
Cameras which were damaged during the explosion were monitor­ing the experiment from about 20 feet away. 

Scholastic editorial board members chosen 
The editorial board ofScholastic Saint Mary's editor: Kathy Curran magazine has been chosen for next Copy editors: Kathleen Doyle and year. The following people have Janet Drobinske been appointed: Art editor: Keevie McCarthy 
Editor-in-chief: Jim Ganther Advertising manager: Jeannie General manager: Charles Van Euch 
Ravenswaay Business Manager: Jim Deaver Production manager: Tom Sapp Distribution manager: Stephen News and Sports editor: Kevin Busk 
Donius The first issue produced by the Culture and fiction editor: Laurel new editorial board, the last issue of Ann Dooley the year, will be in circulation 
Photo editor: Michael P. Leary Friday. 
~---~-~·~.--~-------------------------------.-.~----~ 
Tuesday, April 26, 1983 -page 5 
By Stern magazine 


'Hitlerdaie' claimed authentic 

Three girls wear skirts decorated with the initi{Jls of the Christian Democrats Par~y (CDS) as they and others wave banners at thefinal elec· 
of historians, handwriting experts and associates of Hitler challenged the authenticity of the documents, said he judged them authentic be· cause he understood one man could prove they were found in the 
wreckage of a Nazi plane that had left Berlin before Hitler committed suicide in April 1945. 
"I am now told that this is not 
HAMBURG, West Germany (AP) -Stern magazine held a news con­ference yesterday to bolster a claim that its "Hitlerdaie" are authentic, 
but two expert witnesses said the 
documents  would  have  to  be  
studied further.  
British  historian  Hugh  Trevor­ 

Roper, who gave the documents his unqualified endorsement l.ast week, 
of the Third Reich at war's end. In Munich, a spokesman for the state government said it was considering whether it should request the docu­ments 
The German Federal Archive in Koblenz, which is to receive the diaries after Stern tlnishes its ex-
backtracked and said at the news conference, "A final judgment can· not be given until the whole text of the documents can be examined." 
"There are further tests that are necessary," said another authority on Hitler, Professor Gerhard L. Weinberg of the University of North Carolina. 
The magazine barred a British his­turin, David Irving, from speaking, presumably because he already had challenged the authenticity of its tin d. 
"I had similar documents put in my hands last November, a very large collection -800 pages ­from exactly the same source," lr· ving told NBC-TV. "I've got some of them here, and there is no doubt in my mind the ones I have are fakes. The whole thing stinks." 
Complications for Stern trom the government also loomed. A spokes· man for the federal Interior Ministry in Bonn said the state ofBavaria has a legal right to ask for the documents since it was made the "beneficiary" cerpts, only plans to take the material if it is genuine, spokesman Wigard Haerdtl said in Bonn. 

Stern editor-in-chief Peter Koch asserted that the diaries are "the journalistic scoop of the postwar period." 
But Trevor-Roper, after a number 
quite as I thought, and that in fact the 
link between the airplane and the 
documents here is not absolutely es­
tablished," he said. 
Trevor-Roper said Stern told him 
Gert Heidemann. the reporter who 
it says found the diaries after a three· 
year search, could not reveal who 
gave them to him or whether they 
came from a number of people. 
"We have w rely absolutely on Mr. Heidemann," the historian said, "but it is always possihle for a single person to he deceived." 
Trevor-Roper, who has the title of Lord Dacre, is the author of "The Last Days of Hitler" and numerous other hooks on the Third Reich, 
worked for British intelligence during World War II. 
The diaries, which Stern claims Hitler kept trom I932 until shortly before he shot himself in his Berlin bunker in 1945, are now in a Swiss bank vault. Trevor-Roper and Wein­berg said they were shown some of the papers during separate recent trips to Zurich. 

1270 COVNTRY 
RADIO PRESENTS 



Ronnie Milsap
with special guest Jerry Clower 
Thursdpy, April 28 at 7:30p.m. 
at Notre Dome's Athletic And Convocation Center 
$1 0. 50 Main Floor & Lower Arena $9.50 Bleachers 
Tickets on sole at. ACC Box Office, JR.'s Music Shop -LaPorte, V>.brld R~cords · Goshen, Elkhart Truth · Elkhart, St. Joseph Bonk (Main Office only) -South Bend. Robertson's · South Bend & Elkhart, and the following Sears locations. University Pork Moll -Mishawaka, Orchard Moll · Benton Harbor, Marquette Moll · Michigan City, Pierre Moran Mall · Elkhart, and Catalog Store · Plymouth 
-------~----~---~----------~-­
The Observer 

Tuesday, April 26, 1983 -page 6 

Comic book used as drug aversion tool 

, Thousands ofArmenians marching in Tehran 
i 
on Saturday, protested against the alledged kill­
ing of 1.5 million Armenians by Ottomani 
(Turkish) government. In the resolution the 
protestors once more condemned the U.S. im­perialism for suppressing the liberation move­
ments. 


WASHINGTON (AP) -"Skree! Blam! Foom!" The White House presents a special issue of"The New Teen Titans," a comic book about super-heroes who vanquish drug abuse. 
The comic book, produced by DC comics of New York and underwrit­ten by the Keebler Co., was unveiled yesterday as a new tool to help prevent drug use among fourth graders. 
In a cover letter, Nancy Reagan tells the youngsters: "don't let anyone tell you that you can't be a hero ...Declare that you wiii stay drug-free. At any cost ...And you'll be a hero -to your mother and father, family and friends, but most ofall, to yourself." 
The comic book is built around the heroic exploits of the "The New Teen Titans" "characters. A new character called "The Protector," a troubled teeuager trying to atone for his drug-ridden past, was created especially for this issue entitled "Plague." 
"He died! that's not FAIR! nobody should die that young!" cries the character Starfire after a young boy overdoses. "These earthlings! Don't they realize what they're doing?" 
Though the Titans -seven teenagers who fight evil across the universe -never actually tell youngsters that drugs are bad, most eventually see the light for them­selves after a great deal ofturmoil. 
The comic book is being dis­

tributed by the Ed~cation.. Department to an estimated one mil­lion fourth-graders in 35,000 schools. That amounts to about 40 percent of the nation's fourth­graders. 
It comes with a color poster 
featuring the comic book characters 
saying: "We want you to be a hero 
... Stay drug free!" 
The last page of the comic book contains a pledge for students to sign: "I declare that I am aware ofthe dangerous effects of drugs. I am responsible for myself and will never use any unlawful drug." 
At a briefing for reporters, a new 
survey of elementary school stu­
dents was released. It said 
youngsters experience substantial 
peer pressure to try alcohol and 
drugs as early as fourth grade. 
The survey, conducted by the classroom publication Weekly Reader, also said most fourth graders get information on alcohol and drugs from movies and television and their families -not from their classrooms. Most drug education programs apparently are targeted at older students. 
• • • ROTC 
continuedfrom page I 
Robert McMonagle received the Donald R. Bertling Memorial Award as the sophomore who best ex­emplifies the ideals of Naval Service and ofNotre Dame. 
Military Order ofthe World Wars Awards were presented to: Michael Popovich, S(:nior.; Stephanie Grant. junior; Marianna Karam, sopho· more; and Frank Satalino, freshman. 
John Walker, sophomore, was the 
recipient of the Daughter of Foun· 
ders and Patriots ofAmerica Award. 
• 


-i 
' 
. f 
. 
..I 
I 
STUDENT MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION LIVING ON CAMPUS*CAN PICK UP THEIR EXCHANGE CARDS AND PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS ON APRIL 26, 27, OR 28 FROM 4 TO 7PM. JUST FOLLOW THE SCHEDULE LISTED BELOW: 
If You Live In  Pick Your Card Up At  Date:  
Alumni  Alumni  Apr. 26  
Badin  Walsh  Apr. 26  
B. Philips  Farley  Apr. 26  
Cavanaugh  Zahm  Apr. 26  
Carroll  Carroll  Apr. 28  
Dillon  Dillon  Apr. 28  
Farley  Farley  Apr. 26  
Fisher  Pangborn  Apr. 27  
Flanner  Flanner  Apr. 27  
Grace  Grace  Apr. 28  
Holy Cross  HolyCross  Apr. 26  
Howard  Morrissey  Apr. 28  

When you pick up your Exchange Card, register fora FREE 
APPLE lie Personal Computer Drawing to be held in May. 
NOTRE DAME
0 CREDIT UNION 

If You Live In  Pick Your Card Up At  Date:  
Keenan  Stanford  Apr. 27  
Lewis  Lewis  Apr. 26  
Lyons  Lyons  Apr. 27  
Morrissey  Morrissey  Apr. 28  
Pangborn  Pangborn  Apr. 27  
Pasquerilla E.  Pasquerilla W.  Apr.27  
Pasquerilla W.  Pasquerilla W.  Apr. 27  
St. Edwards  Sorin  Apr. 27  
Stanford  Stanford  Apr. 27  
Sorin  Sorin  Apr. 27  
Walsh  Walsh  Apr. 26  
Zahm  Zahm  Apr. 26  
St. Mary's  LeMan's  Apr. 27  

Get cash and perform financial transactions anytime-with The Exchange. 
·students living off campus will be mailed their Exchange Cards. 
--------------------·---~------..:..:1--·
l~~..ii~-'~iiiB=-~==iiiiiia=iliiiiii:iiiiiiC~imii~--------iiiEiiii:iiiiiiiiiiiiiji~iiiiiii=iiiiiiiiii~=i........=-iiiiiiiiji~ii-=-iiiiiiic========~~ 






Editorials 
Tuesday, April 26, 1983 -page 7 
Gandhi, Fellini, and film power 
NEW YORK -After the Oscars we have some reflecting to do on American direcwrs and their foreign rivals. Gandhi ran away with the laurels because Sir Richard Anenborough had an intense vision and belief in his theme while the Americans were moslly good tech­nicians. 
Max Lerner The Max Lerner Column 
This bears on a new book about the greatest living director -Fel/ini's Road by Donald P. Costello (Notre Dame Press). Clearly the best of the books about him, it moved Fellini ­ever reluctant to praise -to give it the tip of his sword, saying, "Professor Costello has made me want to go and see some ofthe films he writes about." 
Costello sits by the viewer as Fellini's four major films unroll, acting less as judge than as interpreter and guide, showing how each of them fits into Fellini's total vision of life as a "road," his own life journey and every man's. 
In La Strada, his first breakaway from his early realism into the lyrical and symbolic, Fellini dealt with innocence and power. In La Dolce Vita be explored the entanglements of a Roman journalist with a sensual, image­worshiping, and decadent age. 
In 8 1/2 he became the protagonist as well as the creator, reviewing his own life, his fran­tic activity and his harem ofwomen, stripping away level after level of illusion, fantasy, and reality, and ending with an affirmation and embrace of the given. 
In juliet of the Spirits he uses his wife, Giuletta Massina, as the subject for an explora­tion of a woman's life journey, as she seeks to overcome her insecurities and finds herself beset by the apparitions and demons contend­ing for her, and ends knowing that she doesn't need them anymore because she has made her choice and found her true being. 
What American director dares auempt what Fellini has done, laying his life bare, taking the risks of a personal vision made public? Woody Allen, strongly influenced by Fellini, comes to mind, but he plays it again and again as comedy. Francis Ford Coppola plays it as conspiracy and apocalypse, sticking w social and political themes. 
No one can question the power of t1lms. What the great novels and dramas did in the past, in examining the dilemmas and conduct of life, the films for better or worse do today.­Geared to the lowest audience level, TV has pretty much given up on it, reducing itself to political chauer, reporting of violence and disasters, and human trivia. 
Gandhi owes its success to the fact that its theme of non-violence tits into our climate of renunciation of power and weaponry as evil. Attenborough gave this theme the strength of his own vision, which came through in the script, acting and direction. Compared with it, even Spielberg's vision of a juvenile space visitor in E. T. was less authentic. 
It is true that Gandhi's adversary, the British Raj, was easier to cope with than Soviet expan­sionism and ideology today, and that Atten­borough's vision is the wrong one for our time. Yet its power will be felt. 
Fellini's mirrors and circuses, his self searchings, his doubts and affirmations oflife, may not seem relevant to our discontents today. But my vote goes to them. They fit in with the current life-journey revolution in or self-awareness. America and the West are making a collective life-journey too, and are beset by selfdoubts, apparitions, and demons, and must reach to a self-affirmation. 
Copyright 19H:\. Los Angel#s Times .\)•ndicate 
P. 0. Box Q 
game over from the point of the altercation, cessful only in an educational sense: stu­world full of evil. How much eft'ect will the without Shumate, and that the player from dents formerly unacquainted with the letter sent by the students ofSaint Mary's to

A sick· trick 

the opposing team who provoked the inci· nuclear issue were thrust into deciding for Prime Minister Andropov of the USSR have, dent was to remain in the game. This surely themselves on our ballots. 1 strongly dis­considering the fact that Andropov rose to 
DearEditor: 
was a bizarre creation of new rules on the agree with Ms. Monastyrski, however, in her power as the ruthless head of the KGB, the Last Friday night during An Tostal part of the commission. The commissioners implication that the women of Saint Mary's vicious Soviet Secret Police? I pray that your someone with a warped sense of humor made a final deci'sion during the game, then are more morally "enlightened" than the letter has effect, but my doubts are real. A (probably due to alcohol content in the refused to accept responsibility for it hours men and women of Notre Dame. The dit~. bilateral freeze would at least provide both brain) thought that running the cart for the later, and then devised a ruling under ference in electoral results is not indicative sides with a margin for safety and security,handicapped into the lake was a fun thing to pressure totally out of character . with ofconflicting values or morality, but rather a while providing a basis for mutual disarma­do. Will this bring the service -started in 
Bookstore Basketball, which is not a double different evaluation ofthefacts presented. ment talks. 
January -of providing transportation for elimination tournament. They deprived us As I stated, the educational value of the As a final note, I find it highly ironic that the temporarily (non-athlete) handicapped of the dignity of our fairly won victory, and nuclear debate was significant. Unfortunate­Saint Mary's has designated May I as Interna­to a halt? 
when we attempted to speak with them the ly, many questions and problems were not tional Peace Day, complete with ·ampus ac­It probably depends on how extensively next day, assured us they had been totally resolved satisfactorily in the discussions on tivities. The Soviets will simultan ously be the cart was damaged. The cart represents a impartial. It was only after this that I learned either campus. The technology, strategy, boWing their own celebratio , with S600 investment by the Office ofStudent Af­that in fact the scorekeeper was the sister of and politics are more complex than we im­hundreds of tanks and missiles thu eringfairs made upon the request of the Univer­
one ofthe players'on the opposing team, ap­agine. When we speak of nuclear weapons, through Red Square in Moscow. The .om­sity Comminee for the Handicapped and the 
pointed by the "impartial" commission, one are we referring to strategic or tactical (or munists will be "celebrating" their even ual Office of Handicapped Student Affairs. Their of whose members was one of her best both?), ground-burst or air-burst, ABMs, world domination as prophecicd hy Len· concern was for those students who had to friends! ICBMs, or SLBMs-scientific advancements on the 11rst of .\1ay. Or haven't you eve~ get around on crutches and since they were This is my first year at Notre Dame, and I occur dai~l'. as Mr. Reagan's "star wars" heard of May Day?
not varsity athletes were not entitled to the am learning much. I can see that Bookstore speech indicates. Diplomatic and economic Edtt•urd G. Burley use ofa cart. 
is a time for spectators to take frustrations pressures intluence the question as well, as 
The service which has been provided 
out on athletes, and for frustrated athletes to NATO and the Warsaw Pact discuss nuclear,
works because of the service of twenty-five 
flaunt all the worst attributes ofbig time ath­chemical, and biological warfare. How are 
student volunteers and the graciousness of letics without the talent. Throughout the these diveTse issues related? Essentially, the Editor's Note: The appearance ofletters tothe garage staff who staff and maintain the tournament I saw my teammate, John educational process must continue in order the editor is subject to the daily constraints cart. 
Shumate, display amazing control while for all of us to fully comprehend the issue at • of the editorial page. Letters should be brief
SisterEve~vn Booms, IHM 

being booed, physically hatcheted, and ra­hand. and deal with specific issues. They must be
Director, Handicapped StudentAffairs 

cially slurred. In the quarter-finals last Friday Personally, I am opposed to the use of typed and bear the address, telephone num­Notre Dame students displayed the same nuclear weapons: I can think of nothing ber, and signature of the author. Initials and sort of behavior, finally provoking a reac­worse than nuclear war. At the same time, I pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproduc­tion. There is a subtle form of racism that am opposed to the rhetoric of a unilateral tions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to

John Shumate 
tries to abuse a good man physically and psy­nuclear freeze. Simplistic moral answers do persons other than the editor are not accept­chologically, and when he finally reacts, not solve the real questions posed by a able. All letters are subject to editing. DearEditor: charges him with being less than super­
My bookstore team, john Shoe and the human. When such a decent person and Sneakers, fairly defeated the opposing team, great athlete can be so insulted by spoiled US, 21-16 in a quarterfinal game in which we students and frustrated high school led throughout and were never in danger of "athletes," the passionate and human inten­losing. There was an incident in which a sity ofsporting is lost, and mere ugliness left member ofthe opposing team charged up to in its place. john Shumate's face spitting obscenities and Prof Eugene Rochberg-Halton Shumate reacted by reaching out and grab­Dept. ofSociology bing the instigator, an incident in which both referees decided the game should proceed, but were overruled by commis­
SMC

sioners who decided to intervene and then made a final decision that the game should 

enlightened?

continue. After the game those same officials left no doubt that the game was finished and DearEditor: decided, though they said they were "taking The recent "Inside Monday" article by some heat" about their decision (in part, I Anne Monastryski once again brought forth could see, from the scorekeeper, who had the nuclear debate. February's Unilateral quite vocally opposed their decision). Freeze Referendum was defeated in the 
Later that night I received a call saying Notre Dame election, but, as Ms. that the commissioners had "changed their Monastryski pointed out, it sparked interest minds" and decided that we should play the and debate about nuclear war. It was sue­

~e~~======~=== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinionson.campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic Saint Mary'sEditor...............Anne Monastyrski Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi Execut.ive Editor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Photo Editor........................................ S<:ott Bower News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh Production Manager .............Suzarine La Croix 

Department Managers 
BusinessManager .............._ ....... Daniel O'flare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Controller............................................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 

..--------...--~---------------~·-------....,....._------· 




Tuesday, April 26, 1983 -page 8
Sports Brief§ 
c===~========~====================================~
by The ObJerz•er and The AHvciated PreSJ 
• • . Jackie 

Another first Will OCCUr at Notre Dame Stadium 
this Saturday when two women's teams, interhall champion Farley Hall and runner-up Pasquerilla East, will play after the Blue-Gold game. Farley comes into the game with a 7-2 record. The team lost two games in regular season play last fall, before winning both games to capture the title. PE also had a winning season, making the playoffs for the second time in only its second season before losing to Farley, 8-0, in the final game. -The Observer 
The new ND-SMC Equestrian Club wm 
have its first meeting tonight in the Little Theater in LaFortune at 7 
p.m. All interested students and faculty are invited to attend. For more information, contact AI Kane at 3423. -The Observer 
Speaking ofSports will be aired tonight from 10 to II p.m. on WSND-AM 64. The show will wrap up the year in sports and will include a sports trivia hour. Listeners can call in at 239-6400 and 239-7425. -The Observer 
On Saturday morning, starting just after Io a.m., more than 50 Notre Dame students and faculty took on the 3.I-mile course from Stepan Center around both lakes and back. Their purpose was to have fun and help raise SI65 for charity in the An Tostal Charity 5K Run. Beautiful weather and an enthusiatic turnout helped make the event, sponsored by theJunior Advisory Council, a success. The medal winners in the men's division were Biff Piane 
(first) with a time of I6:42, Ed Rudnicki (second), Robert Hosbach (third), Bob Bligh, Robert lsom, and Jan Pocnozbut. The winning women were Rose Marie Luking (20:49), Anne Atten, Mary Beth Fiske, Susan Wanchow, Regina McDugan, and Elaine Frane!. The win­ner of the grand prize, a pair of Nike training flats supplied by Ath­letes Foot, was Mike Hennessey. The SI65 proceeds from the race will be donated to Sister Marita Primary Day School. -The Observer 
Today is 0-Day for a number of graduating football players. The NFL draft will be held today in New York beginning at 8 
a.m. The entire I2 rounds ofthe draft will be held today and anum­ber of Notre Dame players should find their way on to the draft boards. Tony Hunter should be the first to go as he is expected to be one of the top five players drafted. Larry Moriarity, Mark Zavagnin, Phil Carter, Dave Duerson, and Tom Thayer should join Hunter in the later rounds. The Observer will give a full report tomorrow. The Observer 
continuedfrom page 12 
Jackie had little to look forward 
to. Her scholarship was not 
renewed, and her name had been 
left out of the pre-season brochure. 
Jackie wanted to try, though. She 
came back thinner and stronger, 
with a fresh outlook and a 
determined attitude. But the 
coaches made it clear to her that her return would not be easy. They began to test her and try her through verbal jabs and physical exercion. 
"We knew that Jackie had mental strength," Vanslager says. "We used Jackie as an example because we knew she was tough." 
One afternoon, Jackie was five 
minutes late for practice. To prove a 
point, Assistant Coach Dan Ander­
son ran her through the "pit drill." 
For another five minutes, Anderson 
pelted Jackie with volleyballs while 
verbally pushing her to her limit. 
The other players stood around and 
watched. 

"At the time, it was humiliating," Jackie says. "They tested me because they wanted to see what I had. They wanted me to show them what I had." 
"She may have felt humiliated 
then," Vanslager says. "But she 
realizes that humiliation wasn't the 
purpose of the drill. She knows that 
there were reasons and that 
(humiliation) just happened." 
To add to the insults, Jackie was 
not renamed captain in her last 
season. "I definitely expected to be 
part ofthe team," Jackie says. "Being 
a senior, the oldest and most ex­
perienced player, I guess I took it for 
granted that I would be a leader. But 
they (the coaches) felt that the cap­
tain should be playing -on the 
court." 

This is the crucial point in Jackie's story. It is here that she made a name bears her name. Jackie didn't quit. She made the team realizing she wouldn'tplay much. Still she didn't quit. 
For most it would have been pride that kept them going, but for Jackie it was something very different. It was the memory of her brother Lou who played football under Dan Devine. He was a walk-on who earned a partial scholarship after his sophomore year. The elder Pagley was a quarterback behind Joe Mon­tana and Rusty Lisch. He never got the opportunity to play his position although he saw some action at the flanker spot. In his senior year, he broke his foot and did not play. But, he never quit. 
"Lou is the example of the person who just doesn't quit," Jackie says. "He used to say that when you're down, when you'n: tired, when you're beat, when you hurt, that's when everything really counts. He's the perfect example of the non­quitter." 
Jackie finished the season out 
quietly and ended her volleyball career on an uneventful note. But, at the volleyball brunch held two weekends ago, the team made sure that her departure would not go un­noticed. 
"Every athlete goes through a trauma at some point in the season," Vanslager ~>ays. "Jackie showed that she could do it -that an athlete can get through i t t and learn from it. Every athlete can learn from Jackie's example. She had been here since the beginning of the program. The award will have a carry-over effect." 
Jackie survived the realistic ups and downs of her career. She main­tained her individualism while being an integral part of the team. 
"I think they (the coaches) realized that I was a good ex­ample,and that I was good for the team,"Jackie says. "Experience-wise and leadership-wise they did need me. Each girl had her own unique strength. !learned a lot from each of them, and they could all learn from me and what I had gone through." 

• • • Pressure 
continuedfrom page 12 
In Saturday's first game, Detroit 

the fifth inning, Detroit picked up a score t d two runs with two outs and run to chase Irish pitcher Buster no one on ih the fifth inning. The Lopes out of the game. The Titans runs broke a 4-4 tie and gave relief sent reliever Greg Jaun out of the pitcher Tom Conlin the loss. game with a walk, two doubles, and a In the second game, the Irish were 
single. Detroit then greeted Joe trailing 7-0 after five innings. Notre Dobosh with two singles to tie the Dame picked up four runs in the score at 7-7 at the end ofsix innings. next two innings, but it wasn't With the bases loaded and the out­enough. Mark Clementz (2-2) took field pulled in, the Titans scored the the loss. 
winning run with a sacrifice fly to Notre Dame has the chance of left in the seventh. improving its I2-20 record when it In the opener Sunday, the Irish travels to Bowling Green for a won with a four-hit pitching perfor­doubleheader this afternoon. 
mance by freshman Brad Cross. Jack Bowling Green, a member of the Moran knocked in three ofthe Notre Mid-American Conference, has a 19­for herselfand earned the award that 
Dame runs. 8 record. 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint M<!ry's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All clas­sified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail.



Classifieds 
Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per day. 
WEDDING DRESS and ve1l -Beautiful MAKE YOUR SCHOOLS OUT PARTY A Lost at Heatwave concert Tan L1ght Can you spell San Bernardino? Tom and To the very BEST. q~ana.s!Zett-12 287-8428after5 SMASH LET CREATIVE AUDIO PLAN Jacket, Blue Plaid 1ntenor w1th Repp.Ltd Jtm can I (bumble. bumble. bumble bee. bumble. THE MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT GREAT tag Call3217 to cla1m 1ntoTHEQT)
WANTED 

WINDSURFER FOR SALE USED ONE TIME CALL 277-6046 MORNINGS SENIORS ... MULDOON'S!! Check out You were nght. I wasn t expecttng a per· YEAR $400 CALL MARK-8810 Rush Street one more hme belore you sonal yesterday. I w1sh that I could thank graduate!$~ 2 covers transportatton. beer 
you for everythtng. 1n some posstble way.
Anyone com1ng back on June 18th or 19th 

1210 GARLAND pay $222.87 when you both ways to Ch1cago. Bus leaves Wed ThiS personal battle Will go on unt1l. JUStfrom the Wash~ngton D.C area? Want to about May Also. about th1s-summer. I Will
assume thiS 9 S'o FHA mortgage Century evenmg. April 27. Call Paula x3631 for
work out a nde? Call Kathleen at 2946 

I LOST/FOUND I ~..-1_F_O_R_RE_N_T___,
21 Carm1en Realty {219) 848-4477 reservattons. A sen tor month event .. don't mtss you whtle you are away mtsstt! Love always. the dumb Texan
FEMALE NEEDS ROOMMATE FOR SUMMER SUBLET IN CHICAGO LIN­

REFRIGERATOR · L1ke New Call MJ at 4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo all 7950 FOUND ON SOUTH QUAD. Cas10 ilve­uhl1!1es Included June or Sept Call 319­
COLN PRK APT GREAT VIEW OF LAKE GET OUT AND PARTY WITH APEX 
functton watch. Has tmttals on the back 322-8735 Patty BAGGAGE TRUCK SIGN-UPS For
CALL4418 TONITE 10 TIL 2 AT SENIOR BAR 
Blue. w1th Sliver watchband. Call Marty at 
Conn. & R.l Students TONIGHT!! For ROOMMATE-For summer and/or 83-84 1022. Summer School? Apts tor Rent near N 0 N.D. Students 6-8 30 '" LaFortune For 
Ut11it1es Pd Less Gas ph2720261 Easten Atrhnes ts proud to announce tts SMC Students 8·30-9·30 1n LeMans Lob­school year-Prefer nonsmoking female 

TICKETS 

M1Ss1ng bookbag. please return law CAMPUS COSTCUTIERS PROGRAM. by. Cash ONLY accepted. Call #1694 or I 11ave furnature. Call Gay C. 2397163­grad.-share 2 bedroom at H1ckory Village· books and notes to law school. no ques­Faculty or Grad Students 4 Bedroom an efftctent. mexpenstve way tn whtch to # 7884 1f you have any questions. 
tions asked or$ reward ask for M1ke A House. fully furn1shed With washer/dryer send your personal 1tems home for the Please Help! Need One LOWER ARENA N1ce! $400/month. 288-3109 summer break For tnformatton. see Ammal House Wanted Stngle room on campus from TICKET lor GRADUATION EXERCISES LOST/STOLEN FROM SOUTH Tuesdays or Wednesday·s ad 1n the OB­Anrmat House May 2-12 approx. W1ll pay$$. Call 277­
day. 2837707-eve. 

--Will trade one upper arena ticket or w1ll DINING HALL. GRAY NEW BALANCE 5-BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL $400 SERVER or call J1m Forde. Eastern ANIMAL HOUSE buy Please call Debb1e at 234-7961 BOOKBAG PLEASE RETURN 233-6779 Alfline·s Campus Rep at 3632. ANIMAL HOUSE Thanks! Animal House 2369 7-Bpm ONLY NOTEBOOKS. THEY ARE VERY IM­
.. , PORTANT CALL 3132 -NO QUES­TO GRAD STUDENT FOR FAL-1. FUR· TRACY BRINGARDNER Help! I need a nde back home to New Jer­
HELPI!I!Need Graduat1on T1ckets W1ll TIONS ASKED. YOU CAN EVEN KEEP NISHED. SPACIOUS 3-BEDROOM
sey this summer. Can leave Tues May 10. Animal House 
pay$$$$$$ Call M1ke 1764 THE BOOKS HOME. S W SIDE OF SO BEND ON Happy 20th Birthday to one ol the Wildest 
11 vou can help me reach those Jersey SEE IT! 
BUS LIN $400/MO.. ALL UTILITIES IN­I desperately need l1ve TICKETS lor FOUND TRINITY HIGH SCHOOL Class CL SMALL DEPOSIT 287-3073 g~rls on (yeehaw) campus. You.ll always GRADUATION EXERCISES Please call Ring -1982 Jmt1als CJJ 1ns1de Found be the real owner ol the S. D p1g. as much 
btoches. call me. Barb. at 284-4427 TUES&WEDI 
, N ·co RIDE TO CLEVELAND/AKRON '-~ +129. PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 277­
Phil at 277-1759 Thanks on s~nk tn bathroom of Nteuwland Sctence Clean Jurn1shed lor 3-4 students. 931 N as 11 does get passed around the group! Hall Wednesday. Apnl 20 Call Chns Notre Dame After 6 p m 232-0535 You·re a great fnend and we·re all tooktng To the Monday n1ght crew ol the Ob­
1 '05 I DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE CAR­#3184 belore 11 IS pawned 
forward to many more birthdays together' server. 1n our last ISSue-Thanks for all the Love & Ktsses. hard work and humor that made Monday
DINAL BERNADIN !'! and my best To Sublet One Bedoom Apt Completely MaytO Share$$ Mlke233-6068 or leave fnend IS graduating. I Will pay BIG BUCKS LOST NAVY BLUE JACKET AT Furntshed Great Sale Locatton on your lam1ly from SMC and the Dome. 
NEED nde to SAN FRAN or LA after 

ntghts mterest1ng and fun Love. Kathleen 
for a TICKET TO GRADUATION Call RECESS ON SAT PLEASE CALL A1ves,de Dr Rent Negotiable Call Sean. Gus at 283-1215 after 6 pm belore BRIAN AT 1479 289·9309 
rn~~sage 

IEEE Elect1ons-Mon . Tues.. Wed. 1n EE Tom Small Off1ce REMEMBER TO VOTE FOR Tom Sappgraduatton !!!!
I ..,e<J Fall hous~ng. Apt. or other ONE MORE TRY'! Were you at St Ed·s For Summer storage call 283-3204 close KEVIN BENNER. BILL ME ATKA. ANNE T1m Neely format before Easter? Dtd you walk out tn to campus-secure-plenty of space WERNIMONT. & LARRY AUGUSTIN!! Tom White the wrong shoes? I have your navy Red share 1t wtth a ftend and save--­Mih,233-6068 Suzanne LaCro1xCAHOLINA CAROLINA CAROLINA ANIMAL HOUSE: the movie, the epic Is TomMo1111eCross shoes. but I preler my own navy

Need Alder Leav~ng Tue May 10 Call Upstage shOes .please trade back'! Call 
on campus Tuesday and Wednesday Luc1an N1erneyer Jelf at3126 

NOTICES 

in the Eng. Aud.llll Take a break and Paul C1farelli join the fun, TOG A Ill M1ke Sullivan Liz at 6825 I cannot wear yours'!! call LIZ a 
6825 

PERSONALS
82 GRAD needs female roommate 1n Mtke RtccardJ Evanston JL. Call Rem (312) 864-8494 Dan May 

LOST IN MUD PITS Polo keycha1n w1th INTERESTED IN ~vORKING WITH THE 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 N Keonane-
Need nders to John Carroll Untv Leave #234 on them REWARD'!! Please call You are most cordtally tnvtted to come 
FLOC STRIKE IN AUGUST NEAR
Fn. Apnl29. Call John #3554 TYPING. Jack1e Boggs. 684·8793 3288 over and teach me to waltz
TOLEDO? Expenses pa1d Call Peter or 
RSVP Boardmg horses. 1 mt I rom N D. Covered LOST /STOLEN -FROM CHANCE TO KF a
Kev1n 283-3125 

arena. 277-5828 (nng 12x) DANCE AT STEPAN CENTER. Fnday Thanks for the lovely d1nner last mght. I 1982 NO GRAD seeks 11nanc1al aSSIS­
mght. 4/22/83 bnght turquo1se JaCket had a wonderful t1me We II have to do 11
r FOR SALE 

tance for Dental School {loans or any
TYPING . Profess,onal and expenenced conta1n1ng all my keys Please return at SENIORS! SENIORS' SENIORS! agatn somet1me 
L.·------~ '"all phases of typ1ng Call Sue 277-3878. lean the ~ev~ -tt1ey are all very Impor­other Ptd) excellent tax break. SENIORS! Demps
{312) 595-0215 
tant. Call 284-4307 No quest1ons asked TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! TOGA' 59 Hamilton St
You can even keep the Jacket. TOGA! you are my sunshine, my only sunshine Bensenv.lle. 11160101F•::JR SALE BY OWNER Near Notre 
Housesttters avatlable June-August Sr Bar! Sr. Bar! Sr Bar! Sr Bar! you make me happy, when skies are greyD"":!1116. 2-bedroom brtck house. fenced 
ResponSible mamed couple w111 ex­Found at Heatwave concert Tan Light TUESDAY NITE! TUESDAY NITE! you'll never know, dear, how much i love change light maintenance for hous1ng. Jacket, Red Pla1d 1ntenor w1th Baracuta Can you spell Albuquerque? T1m and OH BOY IS THIS GREAT you y:crd. Many extras. $37.000. Days· 232­
;. 131, ask for Sylv1a. Other t1mes. 288­€ , :,4 or 239-7771 . 

Call Roberta 237-4444 Jrom 8-5. Tag. If you have 11 please call 3217 Paul can I please don·r rake my sunshine away
• 
. . .1.• 
~ 
r 
~------·-------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, April 26, 1983 -page 9 

Last-minute maneuvering 
NFL draft centers around Elway 
NEW YORK (AP) -The John El­way derby accelerated yesterday, with the Los Angeles Raiders think­ing about offering Rookie ofthe Year Marcus Allen as part ofa package to .obtain the Baltimore Colts' No. 1 pick in the Natonal Football League 
draft.  
A  source  close  to  the  high­ 
powered  bargaining  said  the  
package could include  a  series of  

Raiders' first-round draft choices plus Allen, the sensational running back, in exchange for the right to pick the Stanford quarterback in today's draft. 
The Raiders have one first-round choice -the 26th -this year. 
Elway is •considered a "franchise" player along the lines ofJoe Namath and Earl Campbell. He has told the Colts that he doesn't want to play for them, and has expressed the desire to play for either a West Coast team or the Dallas Cowboys. 
Elway is also being wooed by George Steinbrenner, owner of baseball's New York Yankees. 
Other NFL teams believed to be in the bidding for the Colts' prized pick are the San Diego Chargers, posses­sors of three first-round selections, and the Cowboys, who reportedly have offered their No. 1 choice ­
• • • Kickers 
continuedfrompage 12 
in final NCAA stats. 
An important position that the coaches wanted to solidly estab!Jish this fall is a backup for Kiel not only at quarterback, but at punter as well. Senior Mike Viracola has helped out immensly to establish that goal. 
"Personally, I'm really impressed with Mike," say Garber. "He has a very strong leg and good technique. It's very obvious that he could be the top punter for many teams in the na­tion. He's certaintly the best backup punter I've ever seen." 
Whether it's Johnston, Kiel, or Viracola kicking, his job will be made more ofa "snap" thanks to spe­cial team center Kevin Kelly whom 
Garver  lauds  as  an  "excellent­ 
excellent  field-goal  and  long­ 
distance snapper."  

Second-string quarterback Scott Grooms succeeds Ken Karcher, who transferred to Tulane, as the holder for Johnston on extra-points and field goals. 
As for the rest of the units on the special teams, they will not be decided until the fall. A main priority will be to replace the leading punt returner of the past four years, Dave Duerson. A more attractive situation exists at the kickoff return positions as both Allen Pinkett and Greg Bell are possible prospects once again at that specialty. Pinkett ran back a kickoff for a 93-yard score against Penn State last year, while Bell had a 98-yard breakaway for six-points two years ago against Miami. 
The good news for Irish fans and television cameras who loved to is­olate on the tremendously aggresive play oflinebacker Tony Furjanic and fullback Chris Smith last year on the coverage and return units is that they may once again play there, everi if they start or play a lot for the defense or offense. 
Smith, who made an amazing I 5 tackles for the coverage units last year, smiled wide earlier this spring when asked if he still would play on the specialty units. 
"I sure hope so," he said. 
"We want the best people that we can possibly have on the field for the specialty units, too, since it usually determines the result of a close game," says Garver. 
Having Mike Johnston, as Notre Dame fans found out last year, is a good start toward determining those results. 
23rd overall -plus veteran players, possibly quarterback Danny White and defensive tackle Randy White. 
Robert Irsay, owner of the Colts, was quoted as saying the Raiders "made a fantastic offer of draft choices and players and I think we'll take it." And Ernie Accorsi, Bal­timore's general manager, said ofthe Raiders and the bidding, "Yes, 
they're in it and they're in it serious­ly. Both the Raiders and the Colts are maneuvering to make the package more attractive." 

The Daily Breeze of Torrence, Calif., reported yesterday that Raiders' owner AI Davis was attempting to trade for more first­round choices, to be used in a package for the Colts' No. 1 pick. 
The paper, quoting an uniden­tified executive from another NFL team, said the Raiders were offering three starters -defensive end Howie Long, running back Kenny King, and guard Mickey Marvin -to the Chicago Bears and the Philadel: phia Eagles. The Bears have the sixth pick in the first round, while the Eagles have the eighth. 
Allen was the Raiders' first-round pick last yr:ar, after nine other clubs had made their -selections. He finished third in the American Con­ference and fourth in the league in rushing with 697 yards and was the NFL scoring champion with 84 points on 14 touchdowns. He also was the unanimous choice as the Of­fensive Rookie of the Year. 
The draft officially begins at 8 a.m. 
Each team has 15 minutes to make 
its selection or make a deal. 
Sometimes the players' names are 
written on the index cards and read 
by Commissioner Pete Rozelle with­
in seconds; sometimes it takes the 
full I 5 minutes. 

The draft encompasses 12 rounds and has been compressed from two days into one, a marathon which could run as long as 20 hours. Some NFL owners had expressed fears that between the first and second days, the United States Football League would fan out and try to pressure un­drafted players into signingwith it. 
The .Chargers' starting quarter­back is Dan Fouts. But he's a free agent and looking for a S1 million a year contract, which is about what Elway wants, too. They have those three first-round picks to offer-the fifth, 20th, and 22nd. Their backup quarterback is Ed Luther, whose ex­perience is limited to 22 passes in three pro seasons. 
COUNSELINE A new service to the ND community 239·7793 HOURS: 4-9pm Mon-Thurs. Counsel me IS a free. confident tal telephone semce that offers professionally taped matertals mat cover a Wtde varietv of student concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Frtendsh•p Bulld•ng 7 Deahr,g w•th ConsttuCI1ve Cn1tC1Sm 8 Deahng wtlh Anget 9 Undersiandtn.g Jealousy and How to Deal w1th 1t TO How to Say NO 16 Becommg Open to ~hers i8 Dating Sk•lls 30 Anx1ety and floss1ble Ways 10 Cope Wllh It 32 How to Deal Wllh Lonlme35 33 How to Handle Fears 35 6U1Id1ng sell-Esteem & Confidence 37 Aelal(mg Exerc1ses 38 Copmg with-Stress 39 Female SeJ Role. Changes ana Stress 44 Learnmg to Accept Yourself 61 What1s Therapy & How to Use It 83 How to Cope w1tt: a Broken RelaTIOnShip 85 Understanding Gr•el 90 Helping a Fr~end 160 Early s~.gns ot an Alcohol Problem 161 Responsible Dec1s1ons AbouT Dnnkmg 402 Selt-Asserlweness 431 What1s DepreSSIOn 432 How 10 Deal w1th Oepress1on 433 ·Depression as a Lde STyle 478 Becommg Independent trom Parents 479 Dealing wilt"! Alcoholic ParenTs 491 Swc1dal Cns1s 492 Aecognlll'lQ SUICidal Potenllal mOthers 493 Hetpmg Someo~e !n a Su1C1dal Cns1s  
Counseline is a compJetely anonymous sefV!ce offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9-5 --CLIP AND SAVE-­ 

Elway is projected not only as a football star but also as a major league outfielder. Enter Steinbren­ner, the wealthy boss ofthe Yankees with a penchant for purchasingstars. Last year he paid Elway S140,000 to spend his summer vacation as a minor league outfielder and repor­tedly has offered Elway S1 million a year to pursue a baseball career. 
In 1977, when Tony Dorsett told the Seattle Seahawks he would not play for them, they traded their pick, No. 2 in the opening round, to Dallas for four selections, three in the second round. Only their first-round pick, tackle Steve August, still is with Seattle. 
Not that such pressure tactics by potential draftees have always worked. Running back Darrin Nel­son, a former Elway teammate at Stanford, told the Minnesota Vikings last year to bypass him. The Vikings drafted him anyway, and Nelson, not having other entrepreneurs lining up to throw seven-figure checks at him, chose to sign with the Vikings. 
No. 1 picks, by and large, turn out 
to be instant and long-term stars in 
the NFL -although the first one in 
the first draft, Heisman Trophy win­
nerJay Berwanger, chose not to play 
pro football at all. 
In the past decade, excluding last year's No. 1 pick -defensive lineman Kenneth Sims by New England, who bas not yet had suffi­cient time to prove himself consis­tently -only two No. 1 selections have failed to attain consistent star quality. They were Ricky Bell, chosen by Tampa Bay before Dallas picked Dorsett, who had one excep­tional season before fading, and linebacker Tom Cousineau, an "asterisk" because he chose to play in Canada rather than for the Buffalo Bills. 
Even without the Elway drama, 
there is much intrigue in the draft. 
The Houston Oilers had the No. 2 
pick, behind Baltimore. Saturday, 
they traded it to the Los Angeles 
Rams for LA's first-round pick (No.3 
overall) plus the Rams' fourth-round 
selections in 1983 and 1984. 
Wild Wheel  Every Tuesday night in the Terrace Lounge,  
Crab Races!  experience Witd Wheel Crab Races!  
FREE Registration  

at 8:30 p.m. select a crab from our stable, and anxiously await the 9:00p.m. post time! Prizes will be awarded to the winners. 
Between races, drink discount prices will be spinning on our Wild Wheel! Wherever the wheel stops, that's the price for drinks during the next 15 minutes, as low as 50¢! 
Come out. of your shell at the Terrace Lounge every Tuesday for South Bend's only Wild Wheel Crab Races! 


Baseball Standings 
AMERICAN LEAGUENATIONAL LEAGUE East
East 

w L Pet. GB Montreal 9 4 692 Balttmore 9 7 563 St. LOUIS 8 4 .667 5 Mtlwaukee 6 7 .533 
w L Pet. GB 
.5 

Philadelphia 9 5 .643 .5 Boston 8 7 .533 .5 Pittsburgh 6 7 462 ·3 Detrott 8 7 .533 5 New York 9 .306 5 New York 8 8 500 1 Ch1cago 4 11 267 6 Toronto 7 8 467 1.5 
West Cleveland 7 9 436 2 A11an1a 12 3 800 West Los Angeles 12 4 750 .5 KansasC1ty 8 5 615 Cincinnati 9 8 .529 4 Cahfornta 
11 7 .611 -.5 

San D1ego 7 10 .412 6 Oakland 9 6 .529 1 San Franctsco 5 12 .294 8 Texas 9 8 .529 1 Houston 5 13 278 6.5 Ch1cago 7 8 .467 2 
Minnesota 8 10 444 2.5 Yesterday's Results SeaMie 6 14 .300 5.5 Los Angeles 6. St. Lou1s 0 Yesterday's Results New York 2, Mtnnesota 1 
Today's Games 

Today's Games Houston at Montreal Mtnnesota at Cleveland San D•ego at Chicago Ch•cago at Milwaukee San Franc1sco at Pittsburgh Kansas C1ty at New York New York at Ctnctnnatl Toronto at Texas Philadelphia al Atlanta Balt1more al Oakland 
Los Angeles at St. Lou1s Boston at Sea«te 

... 
-

The Observer Tuesday, Apri126, 1983-page 10 



only)

-



SEND YOUR GEAR 
JIH FORDE, CAMPUS REP. (219) 283-3632

FLYING WITH 
FOR RATE INFORMATION, CALL:

EASTERN'S CAMPUS 
TOWNE AIR FREIGHT (219) 233-3183

COSTCUTTERS! 
Fast service, low cost to anywhere Eastern flies in the continental U.S. 
Contact Eastern Air-Freight 
or your Eastern Airlines 
Campus Representative. 
EASTERN 


Air-Freight
• 
NCAA hopes still alive 

Tennis team loses match to Purdue 
ByJANE HEALEY 
AssistantSports Editor 

Coach Sharon Petro wanted to prove to Purdue that her women's tennis team was not a 9·0 team like their previous defeat implied. Petro was right, but not by much as Notre Dame fell to the Boilermakers 8·1 this past weekend. 
"I'm disappointed," Petro said. "They (the team) came up with a sundry of excuses, but I don't believe in bad luck or in bad days." 
After  dropping  all  six  of  the  
singles  matches,  Petro  began  
"swea~ing  it  out."  But  the  No.  2  

doubles team of Lisa LaFratta and Laura Lee beat Debbie Mackey and Debbie Prochaska 6-.3, 6-0 for the lone Irish point. 
"I was really pleased with the way No. 2 doubles played on Saturday," Petro said. "I hope we can build on that. Doubles is tough because you have to play together and yon have to practice together so much. They played well tog.~ther, and the team needs that right now." 
The team is going to need more than just the solid play of a doubles pair, though. Today, they face Wes· tern Michigan on the Courtney Courts at 3:.30. 
The only time Notre Dame ever saw Western was last year when the Broncos defeateci the Irish 5·4. Al­though, Petro feels that this year's team has improved vastly from last 

Michelob $1 Night 

consultants to Multinational firms seek qualified individuals with 
language and area expertise on foreign markets. Expertise should be based on a stay of at least 2 years. Part-time and full-time assignments available. Fee Paid. 


send resume or request for application form to: 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine Dept: B-33 P. 0. Box A3629 Chicago, Illinois 60690 
year's squad, she cautions that Wes·  with our strokes," said Petro. "The  
tern Michigan has done some  players just have to be intense. It's all  
growing of their own.  mental, it's not skills."  
"I would really like to beat them,"  As the_ season winds down - 
she said. "I think we're at the point  there is only one more match before  
where we should. beat them, but  the NCAA's -Petro is aware that  
they've improved, too. They have a  tennis is not the only thing on the  
situation where a freshman came in  minds of her players. She also  
to the the No. I singles spot moving  realizes that from here on out, things  
everyone else down one. That could  are out of her hands.  
be tough."  "There's nothng more we can do,"  
It's not the physical aspects of the  she said. "The kids have to be think­ 
game that really concern Petro now.  ing about things like, 'if we go to  
Since the selection process for the  California exams have to be moved  
NCAA tournament is now in  up,' and 'it's the end of the year  
progress, and the Irish have beat all  anyway.' The pressure is really  
the teams that they had to beat, she  mounting.  
is worried that the players are saying  "It's hard for a coach to assess a  
to themselves, "There's nothing we  player in an individual sport. They  
can do now."  are all individuals out there. It's real­ 
"There is nothing more we can do  ly up to them.''  


Brett begins his binge earlier than usual 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­George Brett is hitting the ball to left tleld, right tldd, and center field. 
He's hitting the ball down the lines, into the gaps, and over the fence. 
In short, the Kansas City Royals' third baseman is hitting the ball like he did during his banner 1980 season, when he was the American League's Most Valuable Player. 
Brett is hitting a league-leading .471, and his double and run-scoring single in Kansas City's 7-1 victory over Toronto Sunday extended his hitting streak to 13 games. 
A two·time AL batting champion, who hit .390 in 1980, Brett is no stranger to hitting success. But even he can't explain his present pace. 
"Whenever you're in a streak like I am, where you're hitting the ball hard consistently," said Brett, "you have to be in some kind of a trance or something. 
"Your concentration and your fundamentals are just right in time. Everything's working together, in split-timing portions or whatever." 
Counting last season, Brett has hit safely in 19 consecutive games. This year, he has 24 hits in 51 at-bats, including 11 doubles, a triple and four horne runs. That's a slugging percentage of .961. Twelve of his last IS hits have been for extra bases. 
It's the kind of performance that prompted Toronto Manager Bobby Cox to say Sunday: "George Brett is one of the greatest hitters who ever put on a uniform. I don't care whether you're talking about Ted Williams or (Stan) Musial or Ooe) DiMaggio, (Willie) Mays, or (Hank) Aaron." 
It's no surprise that Brett is hitting 
well -he's batted .300 or better 
seven times in his major league 
career -but he doesn't usually get 
hot until around his birthday, May 
15. 

Brett probably is the most famous graduate of the Charley Lau spray­the-ball school of hitting, but he credits Kansas City batting coach Rocky Colavito for some of his cur­rent success. 
Brett batted .301 last season-IS points below his career average ­and also has suffered from an image tarnished by clubhouse tantrums and an off-season contract squabble. 
Altough determined to improve his performance both on and off the tleld this year, Brett understandably hesitates to compare his start with 1980, when he had the highest bat­ting average since Williams' .406 in 
1941. 

But he concedes that he is waiting on the ball, seeing it well, and hitting it hard. "That's what happened in 1980 and that's what's happening now," Brett said. 
Brett said he hopes to stay in the groove until mid-May, when he traditionly warms up at the plate. 
•l 
L ~ 
---~----~--------------------------------............~~~-~...-..~~·==~--==-.-~SCP..~<=~~~•=~..~aa..~~··~•~=~--..-.u....a~•~·~....•as..~aa........~....•~ll 
Ihe()~rYer========================================
.. 


~~4()l~~===========================T=u=e=sd=a=y=,A=p=r=il=.2=6=,1=9=8=3===p=ag=e==ll 
Bloom County 

WfU... SOMWN£ WHAT Wlu.IN6TO 
501?1" Of RJRF£1T AU­
W£ P£R50N HIS PI6NITY TO NE.W SHOUW A 6:'118< AN€W ~ PR£511?£N11At.. CANI?I-WOK CAMPAIGN .. [)flJI. FOR? 
I 


Simon 
YOU KNOW, tfiRBf... THE !'fJ.5{ /!1FOfTIINT THING I f(J}NO liT MJTR£ Dllt1£ WH~7 IN II C£11$5 ROIJM. · · 
I 
-, 

~ 

Fate 
~~ 1>. C.oli:.8tTff, "(OIA "LL 0o 
MOl(( TH~N WEAR I< (oUIETT£ IAN(FO(M 1\HD 
SHVE THE C.oR8Y HALL PRu:srs THE 1~ SlAPPE R. 


lX> YOIJ KNoW WHI/7 £ f{J(f/10 :' 
I 

AS A C.ORBEIT£ VOt/U. HAVE A CtiANCf TD ENHANCf '(OIAR Dl{i-NITY AS 1\ PElSON 


The Daily Crossword 

YOIHL B£ ~IVfN TH( oPPoJI.TUN rry TO PEEPHI 
YOUR SfN~E OF VIU.JAE" AND 
IHPORf~H(( 


ACROSS 32 -out (ex· 1 Next to tlngulsh) nothing 35 Used a 
5 In a glider dreidel 10 Concerning 36 Composed 14 Top-notch 38 Actress 15 Island west Caldwell 
of Maul 39 Color 16 Meat dish 40 In unison 17 Daft 41 Tribal 19 Bowling division 
alley 42 Check·up 20 Work test stopper 43 "Sentimental 21 Estate Journey" 
managers author 23 Plelet 44 Weight 25 Carol allowance 26 Money In 45 Remembrance 
the bank 47 Ocean 29 Expression 48 Besmirched of triumph 49 Med. must 
Monday's Solution 


1-:-t•v•••• 
0 PAL Sl R A R Ell CAMS  
VISIT ILES.ODEA  
A L I F Ell L I F E GUARD  
LIFEBELTIIIIAGREE  

A F F 0 R D L I F E R A F T  
NORA RIVAL.MEA T R E r•G of;;; Egl EN T  
ICYIIALLIN INCH  
SEAT BELT~ RAFTER  

C H A R T L I F E L I N E L I F E S A V Efill L I T E R  
AREA.RIIIND EKING  
NEWT.TIEISS DENES  

4126183 

Berke Breathed 

FOR6£T 

Jeb Cashin 
Photius 
So WHAT'LL IT B£? ()0 YOI.4 WANT fH[ JOB o~ NOT, Wfr•K!i? 


Campus 
•I2: 
I5 p.m. -Faculty Forum, "Directions in Graduate Education in Business," Prof. Merton Mil­ler, Board Room 

•I2:
15 p.m. -Workshop, "Future Directions for Micro Analytic Simulation Modelling of the Labor Market," David Betson, 343 NSH 

•I: 
I5 p.m. -Lecture, "Properties of Grand Unitled Monopoles," Dr. Chris Hall, 40 I NSH 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Seminar, "On the Ability of Liquids to Spread on Solid Surfaces," Prof. Elizabeth B. Dus­san, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Zur Asthetik Der Unter­haltungsliteratur im Exil," Dr. Hannes Holnzer, 4I1 Administration Building 

•3:30 
p_m. -Tennis, NO Women vs Western Michigan, Courtney Courts 

•4 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Teaching Music Ap­preciation," I24 Crowley Hall 

•4:I5 
p.m. -Lecture, "The January Anomaly," Prof. Merton Miller, Memorial Library Auditorium 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Zincblende -Diamond Order -Disorder Transformation in Ga As-Ge Alloys," Dr. Kathie Newman, I 18 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Computers, Libraries, and Science Research," Lawrence A. Woods, 2'8 Gal­vin Lite Sciences Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Parametrizing Casson Handles," Prof. Michael H. Freedman, 226 Computing Center 

•6 
p.m. -St.joe Valley UND Night, Monogram Room,ACC 

•7 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Florence at the End of the Middle Ages," Prof. Giovanna Linzi Sanduusky, SMC Little Theatre 

•7, 
9: I5 and Il:30 p.m. -Film, "Animal House," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Senior Class, S1 

• 
7:30, 8:45, 10:00 p.m. -Movie, "George Ken-non: a Critical Voice," Center for Social Concerns, free admission. 

•H 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Revenge of the 19th Century Theologians," Gerald McCool, Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Power Relations and Market Laws," Raul Prehisch, 122 Hayes Healy 


The Far Side 

"The Cyclops family at breakfast." "" 
51 VIctorian skirt item 53 Prisoner's walk 57 Cinnamon 
bark 61 -Minor 62 Unlmaglna· 
tlve ~ Little look 65 Actress 
Stevens 66 Desidera· lion 67 Actual 
being 68 Not a soul 69 Numerical ending 
DOWN 1 Hoover and Ross 2 Primary source 3-about 
(nearly) 4 Remorseful 5 Change 6 Roman 
household 
god 7 Backbreaker 8 Scientific 
item 
9 Small fry 10 Tilting 11 Fantasy 
fanciers 12 Incline 13 Hasdebts 18 Card game 22 Sagacious 24 Disserta· 

lions 26 Flower 27 Earof 
grain 28 Eyepro­tectors 30 Put on a pedestal 31 Palindromic 
girl's name 33 Sulks 34 Trivial 36 Madealap 37 Golf peg 41 Goesona 
spree 43 Tricky dealing 46 Gross receipts 48 Ancient kingdom 50 Kindof 
sale 52 Pigment 53 Velezof 
the silents 54 Greek Mars 55 Wool: pref. 56 Hence 58 Certain 59 William 
Ralph­60 Yemen port 63 Decimal 
base 

~--~--­
Tuesday, April26, 1983-page 12


S~orts 
Excellent kicking corps leads specialty teams 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI Notre Dame Stadium with a 48-yard Sports Writer field goal as time ran out to help Arizona stun the Irish, 16-13. 
Combine the talent ofplacekicker Johnston remains his usual un-Mike Johnston with the past work of abashed self with all the praise that new specialty teams coach, Andy has been heaped on him this past Garver, and Notre Dame may have year. one of the nation's most outstanding "I don't care about All-American combinations in the kicking depart-honors for reasons that are difficult ment this year. to explain," says last year's third-
Johnston who has one year ofath-team pick on Football News All­letic elegibility left after sitting out America squad. "The only reason I the 1979 season, provided the Notre came back is that I feel we're going Dame coaching staff with some of to have a very good team next year the best news this spring when he and I want to be a part ofit." decided to pursue his graduate work Johnston also refuses to accept in chemical engineering at Notre the notion that he couldn't be better Dame. in some parts of his game. 
Johnston came out of nowhere "If anything, I'm going to work last year to hit a Notre Dame record even harder this summer then I did 19 field goals in 22 attempts. In-last year," says Johnston, ''I'd like to eluded in his amazing season were get my leg to be stronger and work perfect three-for-three efforts more on my concentration." against Michigan, Michigan State, Johnston finally had the oppor­and Miami that directly resulted in tunity to play last year after backing the 23-17, 11-3, and 16-14 margins up Harry Oliver for two years. This ofvictory over the respective teams. year Hal Von Wyl will be in the same 
His ability to perform in the position as Johnston was early in his clutch also could not be questioned own career. as he rescued Notre Dame with "Von Wyl has a great deal of 1-l th-hour heroin against Miami and potential," says Garver of the most Oregon. .sought-after prep kicker in the na­
"The wa\' he kicked in terms of tion last year, "but he has a long way numbers l~st year makes him a to go yet with his consistency and definite all-America candidate for technique." next year," says Garver. Also working with the kickers this 
But there is more toJohnston than ·year are Chris E·. Smith (not to be just numbers. confused with the fullback) and 
"Johnston is the best kicker I have Dave Meadows. "Chris has im­ever been around," praises Garver. proved a lot this spring but he needs "His mechanics and consistency are to be more consistent,"·~ys Garver, outstanding. They couldn't be bet­"Dave has a very strong leg but also ter." needs work on being more consis­
Garver's praise has great merit tent." considering that, as a graduate assis­With Blair Kiel doubling as a pun­tant at Tulane a few years back, he ter, the team will be in good hands worked with present all-pro (feet?) in that department once placekicker Eddie Murray of the again. The all-time leading Irish pun­Detroit Lions. Last year, he was the ter has averaged 40.9 yards a punt in tutor of a young freshman named his three years, including a 42.4-yard Max Zendejas. Notre Dame fans may mark last year that ranked him 19th remember Zendejas as the man who stilled the thunder last October in see KICKERS, page 9 

Place-kicker Mikejohnston will be back again 
in thefall to continue his clutch kicking, but bol­
der Ken Karcher will not. However, there are 
MCC chances in jeopardy 
Baseball team has tough weekend_ 
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 

After losing three of four this weekend to the University of Detroit, the Notre Dame baseball team slipped to a 4-4 conference record. The .500 record ties Notre Dame with Xavier University for second place in its division. 
Detroit leads the Nothern Divison of the conference with its 3-1 record. The top two teams of the divison advance to post-season ac­tion. The Irish and Xavier both play their last four games of inter-league play this weekend. Xavier plays host to Detroit and Notre Dame goes against Butler. Butler is in last place with a 1-3 record. 
"It'll be a dogfight," commented Irish coach Larry Gallo on the con­ference race. "We can conrrol our own destiny." 
Over the weekend, the Irish lone victory against the Detroit Titans was 4-2 in the opening game Sunday. The Titan wins were 7-4 and 8-4 Saturday and 8-7 in the second game Sunday. 
In the four games against Detroit, Notre Dame left 37 players on base, allowed 28 walks, and committed seven errors which allowed six un­earned runs. 
"Our pitching wasn't what it has been," remarked Gallo, but he added that the pitching "was adequate enough to win. We didn't get timely hitting, but, jeepers, that's probably the story for the whole damn year. No question in the world, we should have won two games. We should've split." 
In the 8-"7 second game loss Sun­day, the most frustrating loss of the weekend, the Irish had a 7-2 lead af­ter four innings. In the game, Notre Dame gave up nine walks and left 13 runners on base, eight of whom were in scoring position. 
"We had the opportunity to really, really put them (Detroit) away, and we didn't do it. We had a chance to bury them," said Gallo. "We just let it slip away. The pitchers weren't throwing strikes." 
In the gam·e the Irish jumped to a 5-0 lead in the first inning. By the fourth, both teams had picked up two runs to make the score 7-2. In 
see PRESSURE, page 8 

Pagley overcomes bad times Graduating senior, honored by award, demonstrates her poise and devotion 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Assistant sports Editor 

"To an extraordinary young lady who exemplifies qualities a coach cannot instill in an athlete. Qualities such as poise, unselfishness, love, and devo­tion to her team, herspirit, herGod, andNotre Dame." 
It is a special award. It is an award that deviates from the usual recognition of skill. It is the Pagley Award, a new plaque named after senior Jackie Pagley and ded­icated to her unique spirit and devotion. In the years to follow, the name of any volleyball player who matches Pagley's enthusiasm and maturity will be added to the plaque-right beneathJackie's own inscription. 
When an athlete is recognized by his team or coach in such an honorable and respectable way, the usual feature story will highlight his Irish career and create
.. 
the ideal picture ofbliss attached to the student-athlete figure. 
But Jackie's story is different. It is not simply about the highs in athletic achievement and the true happi­ness found under the Dome. Jackie's story is about coping with the ups and downs of real life and trying to look forward and never back. 
When jackie came to Notre Dame as a transfer from Holy Cross Junior College in her sophomore year, she became a member of the first varsity women's vol­leyball team. Success didn't just fall in her lap, though. 
"At the beginning, the first eight games or so, I sat on the bench the whole time," Jackie says. "It was hard for me to handle. But, it ended up being a real successful year. I was named the best all-around player, and I felt like I accomplished a lot." 
.. 
At the end ofthe first rocky year, things were looking 
bright. In the spring,Jackie was given a partial scholar-ship and a job in the athletic department to help defray the co t st of Notre Dame. And in the fall of her junior year, she was selected co-captain of the team by her teammates. Jackie was easily fitting into the traditional mold ofsuccess and happiness. 

Yet, it's when you're at the top of the world that the pitfalls hurt you the worst. A definite lack of playing time, combined with some personal struggles, forced Jackie to break away from the image ofthe girl who has everything. She slipped into a cynical, pessimistic dis· position in which she developed a distaste for Notre Dame. 
"At the time, I was going through some very in­decisive times," says Jackie. "I just didn't know what I really wanted. So many times you're told as an athlete to keep your personal life off the court, but it's so hard because you're only human. 
"I didn't play spring ball with the rest of the team. I 
figured I'd try something else. I went out for Caberet 
and made it. I had a great time." 
It was at this point the a natural division developed ­the struggle between individual and team. Jackie's ab­sence from spring practices almost precluded her rejec­tion in the fall try-outs. 
"I know that she didn't compete with us because she needed to straighten things out," Vanslager says. "But, I did doubt her. I didn't know ifshe could come back and even make the team." 
"She ( Vanslager) was honest with me," Jackie says. "She told me that it would be really hard to make the team. But I never quit working out. I played in leagues, I ran, and I kept in touch. But it was taken for granted that I wouldn't make the team." 
seeJACKIE, page 8 








