--~~------.::-......--~..._.,.......__ ­
• • • Blue-Gold-page 14 
Thomas, Curtis named ND, SM valedictorians 
By AMV STEPHAN, CINDY BOYLE, and MARGARET FOSMOE 
·itaffReporters 
Anthony Thomas of Richmond, Va., and Kathleen Curtis of Utica, Mich., have been named valedic­torians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, respectively. 
Thomas, an accounting major, plans to spend next year as an intern with the Financial Accounting Stan­dards Board (FASB), ·which es­tablishes the rules for accountants. 
A resident of Zahm for four years, Thomas had maintained a 3.987 grade point average as·oflast semes­ter. Thomas has been a trumpet player with the band for four years and this year served as its president. 
"I've had a really good Notre 
Dame experience, and looking back, 
there is nowhere else that I'd want 
to go," he said. He also noted that 
Notre Dame students are "serious 
about academics and serious about 
having fun." 
Thomas said that his friends, both in his hall and in the band, have been the best thing about his four years at Notre Dame. He said that he feels "very fortunate and very honored" to be val t edictorian, but added that "if I had had to give up a lot of my experiences, it wouldn't have been worth it."' 
Thomas credits his academic 
success to organization. He said that 
he took his work seriously and "was 
fortunate to be able to get his work 
done in a shorter amount of time" 
than some other student~. 
"I have a great deal of respect for all of the professors that I've had here," said Thomas, adding that he feels he has received "as good an education here m accounting as 
anywhere else." "I did not realize how good the business school's reputation is until I started interviewing," said Thomas adding that Notre Dame has a very good reputation with "the Big Eight" accounting firms. Thomas said that he is considering several job offers in Washington, 
D.C. after completing his tenure with the FASB, adding that he would eventually like to become involved in non-profit administration. 
Curtis, a nursing major, will work in the step-down intensive care unit at Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. The step-down unit is a progressive care facility designed for patients leaving intensive care. 
Curtis has a cumulative grade point average of 3.94. 
During her college career, Curtis has participated in the Junior Class Board, the Senior Class Board, Chapel Choir, Nursing Club and the Big Sisters/Little Sisters program. 
Curtis says ofSaint Mary's nursing program "I received a good educa­tion but (the major) is very demand­ing. I put a lot into it and got a lot out ofit." 
Curtis is pleased with the educa­tion she received at Saint Mary's. If she had to choose colleges again, she said she would pick Saint Mary's "most definitely." 
"It has given me a basic broad education in addition to my major. I have a broad background in areas like English and history. Most impor­tantly, I feel I can draw on my knowledge in terms of decision­making skills," she said. 
Curtis feels Saint Mary's "has a lot to offer, depending on what you put into it, both in terms of curricular and cocurricular activities." 

These three students were among the many who The Observer/Lucian Niemeyer enjoyed the special French dinner prepared in Among the foods offered were coq au vit~, french both North and South dining balls yesterday. onion soup and eclaires. 

Faculty Senate seeks aid solution 
By SONYA STINSON 
SeniorStaffReforter 

Notre Dame's bleak under­graduate financial aid situation is causing many top students to opt for other universities which can offer them more generous assistance. A recent Faculy Senate report looked into this problem and has recom­mended a plan which would enable the university to offer need-based scholarships to 25 per cent of all enrolling freshmen by the 1984/85 academic year. 
Tutoring program aids SB Spanish 
8y DAVID DZIEDZIC 
Editor-in-Chief 
Mr. Robledo stares intently at the new word on the blackboard. "Hax," he says quietly. "Hax.'' "Have. Haaave," says Doug O'Brien, patiently urging him. 
"Hax. Hax." 
"Relax," Doug says. "Now, one more time: 'have.'" 
Mr. Robledo takes a deep breath. "Haaave. Have." 
"Muy bien, muy bien," Doug congratulates him, as a bright smile emerges on Mr. Robledo's face. "Muy bien." 
Doug O'Brien and Mr. Robledo are a team. Doug is the coach, and Mr. Robledo is the player. The game is called survival. Thanks to Doug, Mr. Robledo is winning the game. 
Robledo is one of approximately 5,000 Spanish­speaking people living in South Bend. He has lived in the United States for eight years, having emigrated from Mexico. But until he met O'Brien in January, he never spoke a word ofEnglish. 
Doug O'Brien is a sophomore history major at Notre Dame. He is one of 15 students who volunteer to tutor Spanish-speaking South Bend residents. The goal ofthe program, as Doug states, is "to teach these people basic English so they can survive in an English-speaking com­munity. Itis quite a challenge, but it is very rewarding." 
The program is the brainchild of Isabel Siguenza, a graduate student at Notre Dame who also teaches Inter­mediate Spanish to Notre Dame students. 
"Several of my students had picked up Spanish very well," she explains. "I realized that they needed a lively way to practice their new language. I was also aware of the desire of many of the Spanish-speaking workers at Notre Dame to learn English. My students have responded enthusiastically, just as I expected." 
The University employs many Spanish-speaking workers, so Isabel didn't have to look far for willing par­ticipants. "Most ofthe people we tutor are employed in the Dining Halls and the dormitories," she says. 
The tutors spend three to four hours a week with their students. In most cases, the students do not know any English. "It's amazing," as O'Brien points out, "that these people have survived in the United States without learning English. It's a credit to their sense of brother­hood." 
Mo~t ofthe immigrants are uneducated. "The people from age 45 and forward are not educated, either in Spanish or English," Hernandez says. "The children, however, have been in school since age six. They know how to read and write English and Spanish." 
The parents' lack of education, however, has been a hindrance to the tutoring process. Most of the parents can't read or write in Spanish, much less English. This is the first problem encountered by the tutors. "Because Mr. Robledo does not read tp.uch Spanish," O'Brien ex­plains, "I am very limited in the amount ofSpanish I can write on the blackboard." 
Pronunciation is another area of difficulty in the tutoring sessions. Jenny Wirthman, a Notre Dame fresh­man, has encountered this problem frequently. Her stu­dent, Alicia, is conscious of pronounciation errors. ",Spanish has different sounds than English," she ex­plains. "For example, Spanish has no dipthongs such as 'sh' and 'th.' These give Alicia a lot of problems. She needs constant encouragement. Sometimes, it gets tough on me because she expects me to look her in the 
See SPANISH, page 7 
Currently, Notre Dame can offer substantial scholarship aid to only about 1o j>ercent oCaccepted ap­plicants. Although the PACE report proposes tripling the university's scholarship endowment by 1990, the Faculty Senate report contends that merely meeting this goal· will not alleviate the problem. 
Estimating that a 25 per cent scholarship policy would require an additional S 1.25 million per year, or 
. about SI 1 million by 1990, the report suggests that the money be obtained from one or more ofthree sources. First, the Senate suggests that the university consider spending en­dowment funds for scholarships at a higher annual rate than the current six per cent. This option is cited as the least attractive ofthe three. Vaughn McKim, chairman of the Faculty Senate and a professor in the philosophy department, pointed out Notre Dame's traditionally con­servative policy on endowment spending. He believes there would be strong opposition to any substan­tial increase in such spending for -fear of jeopardizing future endow­ment growth. Notre Dame has an endowment of 5200 million, roughly 15 per cent of which can be used for under­graduate education, including scholarships, said Joe Russo, Direc­tor of Financial Aid. In view of this fact, the report suggests that only an additional one-half to one percent of the endowment be set aside for use on an "as-needed" basis to keep the scholarship program going. _ The second recommendation is that student tuition income be used to subsidize scholarships. Unlike most other private colleges and uni­versities, Notre Dame has never practiced this policy1 the report said. The general idea would be to raise tuition high enough to fund a sub­stantial number of additional scholarships. There is a potential danger in such a policy, McKim admitted, and it is one which some Ivy League schools are now facing. 
"Every time they raise tuition to give more scholarship support, there are fewer and fewer people who can afford to pay it," McKim said. "That is why I suggest only a very modest surcharge." ' 
The report says that a I.5 percent surcharge applied each year be­tween 1983/84 and 1990/91 would mean additional costs averaging Sl20 per year for students not receiving tuition scholarships, while generating 55.1 million in scholar­ship funds. The report contends that tha_t the proposed surcharge would not impose severe hardships on 
Notre  Dame  students  and  their  
families.  
McKim  commented  that  he  

would like the Student Senate to consider this option and poll the stu­dent body for its reactions. 
The third recommended source of aid is alumni contributions. Cur­rently, Notre Dame alumni are ex­pected to donate 550 each per year for general expenses. According to the report, an additional average 
535 annually would mean 55.6 mil­lion more scholarship dollars over the next eight years. 
The report frequently points to the problem of decreasing enroll­ment, resulting in a reduction in ad­missions selectivity and affecting the overall academic quality of the stu-. dent body. Page 18 of the report says, "A lower percentage of ap­plicants accepted enrollment offers for 1983/84 than in any year since 1977/78 .... The most frequently cited reason for not" enrolling at Notre Dame was lack of adequate financ-ial aid." 
McKim believes the academic quality of Notre Dame's under­graduates would be higher if more fmancial aid 'fere available. 
"If you could offer more in­dividuals at the top ofthe pool more scholarship suppport, then more of them would be able to .come," MdU.m explained. "Then you wouldn't have to accept so maJty of those from the bottom ofthe pool." 
See AID, page 3 
·----·­


News Brief§ 
Friday,April29, 1983-page2 

~~========~================================ 
by The Observer and The AJJociated Pres.r 
The SaintMary'S Alumnae Senior Mass and Brunch will be held at IO a.m. this Saturday in the Church of Loretto. A brunch and toast to College president John Duggan will follow at II:I5 in the dining hall. Susan Fitzgerald Rice, a member of the Alumnae As· sociation Board of Directors will welcome the senior class to the Alumnae Association. Senior class president Beth Bunker will then present the Senior Recognition Award to a member ofthe class. En­tertainment featuring variety show songs sung by seniors will con­clude the day's events. -The Observer 
Breadfor the Worldissponsoring a seminar analyz­ing the hunger issue tomorrow at Moureau Seminary. The seven­hour conference will focus on the United States' role with developing countries with special emphasis on the tools ofeffective organizing and lobbying for action. Keynote speaker Warren Henegar, a southern Indiana farmer and director of the U.S. -China Agricultural Friendship project, will make a presentation in the morning. Bread for the World, a Washington-based public action organization, dedicated to "unite to combat the global tragedy of hunger." _The Observer 

The 1OOth birthday of the internationally famous author of "The Prophet," Lebanese poet Gibran Khalil Gibran, will be celebrated in a piano concert given by Walid Howrani, Sunday at 3:00p.m. in the AnnenbergAuditorium. Howrani, born in New York City and reared in Beirut, is a graduate ofthe Central Music School in Moscow and holds a master's degree from the Tchaikovsky Conser­vatory there. His European and Middle Eastern concerts have been highly acclaimed in Le Monde ofParis, theJournal des Beaux Arts of Brussels and Le Courier des Arts of Cairo. -The Observer 
Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, archbishop of 
Chicago, will speak at Universal Notre Dame Night in Chicago May 
20. The meeting will be held at the Conrad Hilton Hotel, and tickets cost $40. Executive Vice President of Notre Dame Father Edmund Joyce will attend. -The Observer 
The Snite Museum ofArt, incooperation with 
the South Bend Public Ubrary and the Polish American Ethnic Com­
mittee will sponsor a multi-image presentation entitled, "The Polish 
Phoenix," on Monday, May 2 at 7:30 p.m. in the Annenberg 
Auditorium. The presentation, developed by Roger Conant and 
Herb Ferguson ofthe University of Pittsburgh, with a grant from the 
National E T ndowment for the Humanities, focuses on the image of 
Poland as a phoenix, surviving to rise again from successie national 
crises which hae threatened the country's existence. The program 
uses Polish art, architecture, music and history to illustrate its point. 
The production was done in I979, when the production team 
travelled over 3000 miles inside Pqland to visit over fifty cultural 
institutions. -The Observer 
More than 1000 pastors, ministers, counselors and spiritual directors are expected at the 7th annual Summer In­stitute for Retreat and Pastoral Ministry here, July 4-29. The In· stitute, sponsored by Retreats International, a Notre Dame based service organization for people engaged in retreat and pastoral min­istry, has expanded its schedule by one week and now offers its par­ticipants ten areas of concentration and forty practical course options. The Institute's faculty, according to Retreats International director, Father Thomas Gedeon, "is selected for its professional competence, for the ability to speak to experienced ministerial people, and for the insights they have gleaned from pastoral experience."-The Observer 
Kegs are not pennittedon the Green Field prior to, during or after the Blue/Gold game on April 30, according to James Roemer, Dean of Students. Kegs will be confiscated in the Green Field on that day. Students who violate the alcohol prohibi­tion on the grounds of the University are subject to a S I 00 fine, including those who drink inside the Stadium itself -The Observer 
The United States InfonnationAgency 
and Institute ofInternational Education today announced that May I is the official opening of the I984-85 competition for grants for graduate study or research abroad in academic fields and for profes­sional training in the creative and performing arts. It is expected that approximately 500 awards to 50 countries will be available for next year. The purpose ofthese grants is to increase mutual understand­ing between the people of the United States and other countries through the exchange of persons, knowledge and skills. They are provided under the terms of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 196I (Fulbright-Hays Act) and by foreign govern· ments, universities, corporations and private donors. Applicants must be U.S. citizens at the time of application, who will generally hold a bachelor's degree or its equivalent before the beginning date of the grant and, in most cases, will be proficient in the language of the host C!J_untry. Information and appijcation material may be obtained from Professor Vera B. Profit, Fulbrights Program Advisor at Notre Dame. The deadline for submission ofapplications to Profit is October 7,I983 -The Observer 
The Biology Depa.rt::tllent will demonstrate 
programs created by Biology Department people for the TRS-80 Color Computer, on Tuesday May 3, from Noon until2 p.m., in room B I 0 I Galvin Ufe Science Building. Students are invited to arrive and leave when they wish.-The Observer 

There is a 70 percent chanceofshowers with possible thunderstorms today. The high will be in the mid 60s. There is a 40 percent chance ofthundershowers tonight with a low around 
50. There is a chance of showers tomorrow with a high in the low 
60s.-AP 
Grappling with Oedipus 
Mother's Day, complete with every cliche and every teary eye, is nine days away. That day conjures within me a sense which seems very foreign -dependence. And somehow, cliches and tears are most appropriate. 
For the first six years ofmy life, though I rarely admit it, I lived in Mom's shadow. Both the physical and emo­tional needs demanded it. It was always so comforting to know when I cut a thumb or was seared by an off­hand comment from a playmate, Mom was always there, complete with soothing arms and a settling word. 
Everything began to change when kindergarten took me away for four hours of letters, numerals, and other mothers' sons. The teacher, while a mother herself, con­sidered us grown up enough to comfort our own egos, though she invariably kept a first aid kit close at hand. 
Grade school completed the first stage ofseparation -boys were taught to be boys, to wear khaki pants, and play touch tootball. There was a reason for being who we were, and that person was different from anyone else. Independence was in, 
my and Mom was out. girlfriend, once again broke 
On the sunny afternoon because I was too impatient days of fourth grade, Mom, to listen to Mom's heart-felt who ha.d worked a hard day, concern. I wanted to decide instantly assumed her saint­freely who the best woman ly demeanor amid the was. Any advice was suspect. shouts ofspoiled Cub Scouts But after some months of who only wanted to know separation from Mom's wht>n we were going to eat. soothing words, I realized Asserting our newly found she really did perceive my machismo, we became well­own longings for indepen­acquainted with chauvinist dence. What I had seen as ag­jokes, and mother was the gressive acts were only butt of many laughs. But subtle hints by which she even when she heard the hoped to communicate that jokes, she took them in she only wanted what was stride, knowing that I 0-best for me. After all, I was year-old boys were only her "perfect" son, her baby. riding the backlash of an She knew my struggle, but anti-Oedipus Complex. she had struggled, too ­
High school began to put things back in perspective, but Dad was still the major figure -the sweat of weightlifting and basketball did not sit well on the brow of an ever-forgiving Mom. Mom seemed too soft, too maleable, too fragile. The priests and brothers used a tough psychology which reminded me when I did wrong becasue a right answer was expected. I ap­preciated that chance to shape up and become well­disciplined man. 
But when dating started to take its toll on both the pocket book and textbooks, the fear offemininity grew into the desire for the kiss and hold ofa friend's sister. I began to see Mom in the tenderness of a giggling and budding I6-year-old, but I was still Dad's son, a shy lady's man. 
College changed everything. The dating game became the mating game as classroom competitors seemed possible mates. And then, with visions of the perfect girl came visions of the perfect mother, Mom. 
Dad and I were so much alike. 
And as I think about what lies beyond graduation, I know Mom means more than a meal ticket with a warm heart. Mom is the living example of the peace and security I was hoping to achieve through my career. But how wrong I was. How right she always is. But she won't hold it against me; she never did. I only have to say you love her; she's been saying it all my life. 
Observer note_____, 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned. large-print, wide-column ar­ticle on the Editorials page. These columns represent the opinion ofa majority ofThe Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Editorials page or otherwise, are the views of their authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 

I~---------------~\ 
I 
"OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS" 
I 
Destgn Edttor ........ Deirdre 'Spell II to the Mickey Mouse song' Murphy (Soon to 
I 
be) Rittenhouse Destgn Asststtmts ......... Dave 'Goldtlngers 
I 
Gold Lung' Robinson joe 'Donny and-Spunky' Zellner 
I 
Typesetters ..................... Nick'?' LaFlamme Toni 'Drunk Customers' Rutherford 
I 
News Editor. Vic 'Roofer, Painter, Repair· man' Sciulli 
I 
Copy EdttorCaroi'Missing flight coonec­tions' Camp 
I 
Sports Copy Edt tor....... Mike 'Black Lung' Sullivan 



I II

Edttorials Layout ................ Tari '?' Brown Features Layout........ Sarah 'unemployed' Hamilton-no job-no hazards:help! Sports Extra Layout ........... Mike 'Writer's Cramp' Riccardi ND Day Edttor ...................... Tim '?~ Petters SMC Day Edttor.. Bruce 'Crashes' Oakley 
I 


The full circle had been established, completed in my own attempt to emulate Dad and choose that perfect woman. 
And then the rivalry began. Mom said she liked my steady girlfriend, but I wrongly sensed she was a bit apprehensive about my girlfriend's manners and moods. I felt uncomfortable when Mom wanted to know more about the family and and friends ofthe girl ofmy dreams. 
The ties to Mom, which had begun to mend them· 
selves in the arms of 


many breakfast specialties:
Ad Design ............................. nobody knows 
Photographer.. Lucian 'Sunburn and Blis­ters' Niemeyer Guest Appearances ...... Timothy Tuxedo­
I OVENBAKEDAPPLEPANCAKES I 
'laryngitis' 

AND OMELETTES! 1 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday ar·d 
iI **S*I**OFF*:f;. Ion home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer is published by the studeilts of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col­lege Subscnptlons may be purchased 
Iourfamous applepancakes Ifor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer. P 0. Box Q, 
1Good through Wmcepet~ I
Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction 
I ************************** I 
nghts are reserved. Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
I U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland I 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

\ open 6:30am 7daysaweek I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I 
The Colonial Pancake House I 
invites you to enjoy one ofour I 
I 
~---------------~ 
~~------~--------------------~--------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 
Unclaimed laundry to be donated to HC mission in Tennessee hills 
BY KEVIN BINGER 
News Staff 
When the student body disperses at the end of this school year, they will leave behind an estimated 600 pounds of clothing in St. Michaels laundry. But the clothing lost during the school year will not go to waste. 
Thanks to Brother Ivan Dolan, the clothes will go w a Holy Cross mis­sion in Harriman, Tennessee. 
In earlier years the clothes migh have wound up in Bangladesh or Ghana These countries, however, no longer accept such shipments for politcal reasons that Dolan will not discuss due to their sensitive nature. 
The students' clothes are never really lost; however, because stu­dents send in articles of their cloth­ing in someone else's bag or without a label, their clothes cannot be returned. 
Norman Muller, Laundry Direc­tor, encourages students to come in and claim their clothes. "Ifyou come in and say, 'I lost a polo shirt,' I'll take you back and have you look through them," sad Muller. 
"I have two big cabinets full of stuff that is marked. We list the num­
• • .Aid 

continued/rom page 1 
McKim said that a better financial aid policy would also make the stu-' dent body more ethnically and economically diverse. Minority recruitment could increase, and Notre Dame could lessen its image as a school for the upper middle class by making ~ducation here af­fordable to families with lower incomes. 
Although both McKim and Russo agreed that it is too early for an ex­tensive response from the ad­ministration to the report, Russo's immediate reaction was favorable. 
"I think that this is a good stepping stone," Russo commented. "The visibility ofthe problem has certain· ly increased because of it (the report)." 
bers on the board (a bulletin board 
near the cash register listing the 
laundry numbers of the lost items) 
but nobody ever comes after it. That 
bothers me. 
After waiting until June 30 to give 
anyone a chance to claim his 
clothes, Muller will give as much as 
36 baskets of clothing to Brother 
Dolan. 
Dolan spent 22 years in the Holy 
Cross mission in Bangladesh. The 
Iowa native was forced to come 
back in 1969 because of a heart at­
tack and a series ofoperations. 
"After having spent most of my 
adult life there, I can't very well for­
get the place," said Dolan. "I like to 
keep my hands in on the work." --The work is formidable. 
Bangladesh is slightly smaller than 
the state of Iowa, but has 33 times 
the population. Because of interna­
tional politics, Dolan now sends the 
clothes only to Tennessee. 
The clothes go to five Holy Cross 
brothers there. One ofthem is a doc­
tor who also works at the nearby 
state prison to help support the mis­
sion, the same prison that houses 
James Earl Ray, convicted murderer 
ofMartin Luther King. 
The brothers run a clinic and a 
thrift store where the clothes are 
sold for pennies. "Ifyou make them 
pay something, they feel that it isn't 
charity," said Dolan. "It makes them 

Friday, April29, 1983 -page 3 

Ceremony last evening at the Memorial Library AJ411t,.m. 4fter the posting of colors and an invocation, the 'p,..;n,.,itJJ awards were held. · 



PRILLY CLUB 

Bus.Sign-Ups Wednesday, May4: 

7:00pm 1st floor LaFort•~e • $4:5 we will also be running a baggae truck call 3414 or 1522 
.................oupon............... 
Students and Staff 
of St. ffiacy's and Notte Dame additional off


SlOO 
On youc best deal on any newToyota. 
Just pcesent coupon and I.D. to 
ffiichael Fahey at 


ovec 100staff, alum, & students sold Cal:237-4052 one pet customec .................coupon................ 
Refrigerator Returns 
To all who rented a refrigerator from the Student Union: 
They must be RETURNEDon Tuesday May 2 1 :00 • 5:00 PM behind Stepan Center. 
Deposits will be returned. 

proud of the fact that they bought it." 
"The people in Tennessee live in the hills," said Dolan. "Many ofthem have completely run down shacks as houses. Some live in old automobiles and old trucks. Medical facilities are practically nil, except for what we're doing for them." 
The contributions from the laundry are a small part of the effort of the Holy Cross brotherhood around the country. 
The laundry will pick up clothes from the dorms for the last time on Tuesday, May 10. The last day that clothes will be picked up for sum­mer storage is Saturday, May 14. Also, the facility will be open the following two Saturdays to accept SUm"!_er ~torage. 
Muller also has new plans for next year. The days that the dorms drop off and pick up laundry will be changed and rotated each year. 
"One of the most frequent com­ments I got," said Muller, "was why does Grace, Flanner and Pangborn always get screwed and have to wait so long to get their laundry because ofthe weekend?" 
"So we'll change it every year. At 
the end offive years, everybody will 
have had their laundry drop and 
pickup on a different day. That way 
nobody gets the short end of the 
stick." 

Attention Graduate Student Organizations!!! 
Please register your organization in the Student Activities Office, 1st floor LaFortune, by Friday, May 13. Forms are available now. This includes all the graduate departments, MBA, and Law School. Thanks. 
Baggage Truck Concession Recipients 
Pick up your Baggage truck permits in Student Activities next week. You will receive a special vehicle decal which will enable you to drive a 
truck on campus.  
Metro New York Club  Buffalo Club  
Connecticut Club  Philadelphia Club  
Washington, DC Club  Wisconsin Club  
Minnesota Club  New Jersey Club  
Pittsburgh Club  Colorado Club  
Boston Club  

NOTE: Any other clubs or individuals planning to run a baggage truck MUST register with Student Activities. There is no fee. We receive many inquiries from all over the country regarding baggage trucks. We can ref~r many customers to you if we have the information. 

The Observer Friday, April29, 1983-page 4 

Schmitz, Dean of the College of Engineering.
Prof Michael Sain was named the Freimann Professor ofElectri­
Sain, who came to the University
cal Engineering last night in a ceremony at the CCE. Sain received 
in 1965, was awarded the Freimann
the awardfrom Roger Schmitz, Dean ofthe College ofEngineering. 
Chair for his work as a leader in the
See the accompanying story to the right. 

development of modern control theory, and as "a truly outstanding
"'Cli<E LMIE \'11'\.1 'tHJ<H 

teacher." Sain's work is directed toward developing electronic con­trol ofjet engines as an alternative to 
CfUIWHIJNIICAIJIIfUN 1 
f;JlrlfAIJ~IC 

conventional hydromechanical means. "There are 26 or more
;_.,..~lf~II:!~IIIU~~~\'}" lfiiiL~t ~ltll:!lllt~ 

variables affecting engine opera­
Aon129 Diva t1S82) 

tion," noted Sain, "and all of them
Jean-Jacques Be1n1ex France. color 1 23 m1n . French w1lh Engi1Sh sub· 1111es 

must be controlled at the same 
A remarkably fresh and ong1nal work al lhe forefronl of a k1nd ol French 
time." 
f'..ew wave At tne heart of th1s romantiC thrrller-1980s style-1s an 

-Sain has worked for commercial
opera·1ntox1cated 18-year-old ma11 earner who becomes unw1tt1ng1y en­tanglea li'l a web ol murder pasS10n and 1ntr1gue 

companies, served as a consultant to the Bendix Corporation, and was a
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
visting scientist to the University of
~-_..-lr ~u .~ lltl311llr.....-$... 2.oo Toronto in 1972-73. 
Friday-Junior Class .Happy Hour Drafts-.50¢ Margaritas-$1.00 Saturday-Corby's Tailgater Open 9 am 
I Chicken Hot Dogs 
(outside in parking lot) 





I,.._, 
Bloody Mary Party-.50¢ ea. 1 pm-Blue-Gold game 4:30pm-closing: Bar-8-Q Ribs 

"Finals" Special 

.I 
save this ad -coupons good thru May 15, 1983 
Free Pizza Drawing 5/8/83 at 11:30 PM 
with each order 4/21-5/8 write name, phone no., and 10 no. on the back of this coupon and give to the driver 25 FREE 10in. pizzas (cheese plus 1 ingredient) All NO I SMC Students Offer good with no other coupon • No checks expires 5/9/83 
17in. Cheese Pizza 
$7.10 
Additional ingred. .90¢ • Tax included No checks with this coupon • Offer good with no other coupon • Expires 5/15/83 



Jnlis4 Jrinrt Jt55trta 
PIZZA -PIEROGI -SANDWICHES 272·8030 

FREE DELIVERY Open till1 :30 am every night 1806 So. Bend Ave. 1f2 block west of Ironwood on SA 23 • 10% off anytime wit~ no coupon and student 10 

was es­quality manufacture of specialty glasswares and optical materials. He has been a lecturer at Notre Dame 
was and serveral other universities. John Massmann was also a recipient of the 1983 Engineering Science and 
Honor Award. He is the President of Massmann Contracting Company, and was cited for "outstanding achievements in the engineerng and constructions of major ,bridges, I dams, water supply and flood con­trol projects." 
Frailey was cited for his strong Massmann has also served on the leadership in the Corning Glass college of Engineering Advisory \ Works in research, design, and Council since 1974. \ 
Students seek new and exciting study areas 
By CATHY PAX 
Senior StaffReporter 
Regardless of where the lazy stu­dent runs to escape from his work, he will find others bent over their books, and he will suffer a renewed attack ofa guilty conscience. 
With final exams approaching, many students have become 

14in. Pepperoni Pizza 
$6.15 

(tax included) No checks with this coupon • Offer good with no other coupon • Expires 5/15/83 
14in. Cheese Pizza 

$5.40 

Additional ingred ..75¢ • Tax included No checks with this coupon • Offer good with no other coupon • Expires 5/15/83 
resigned to tedious studying. Many  
have realized, however, that an  
interesting location can add interest  
to an otherwise dull materiaL  
Many students embark on an eve­ 
ning migration from their dorms to  
the library. joe Bartoszewicz, a soph­ 
omore from Grace, routinely  
chooses the second floor of the  
library as his haven for hitting the  
books because it is quiet. "Most  
times I don't want to waste time  
looking for a seat upstairs.  
The second floor, which has been  
called "the party floor" adds needed  II  
excitement to studying, he said. "I  I  
don't mind the opportunity of get­ 
ting up and walking around and  
seeing people I know sometime."  
Laura Scwicki, a senior from  
Pasquerilla East, agrees that the  
second floor is not as quiet as the up­ 
per floors. "It's more active; a lot of  
people walk around and talk, but I  
can usually get a lot of work done."  
Scwicki chooses second floor main­ 
ly because ofthe good lighting.  
Jane Panzeca, a Pasquerilla West  
junior, chooses to migrate up to the  
eighth floor because of the white  
desks which are only located there.  
"The carrels with the dark wood are  
too solemn," she believes.  
She also likes the eighth floor  
rather than the engineering student­ 
populated upper floors because "the  
calculators up there make too much  
noise."  
· The Lafortune lobby is also a  
common haven for bookworms.  
Melinda Moore, a Badin sophomore,  
chooses to study here because ofthe  
active surroundings. "If you are  
studying, people won't come up and  
talk to you," she said, "but ifyou look  
disinterested, they'll come up and  
start a conversation." She added,  
"It's a good way to meet people."  
Darby's Place, located in the base­ 
ment of LaFortune is another  
popular studying place. Bill Rompf  
and Caroline Woidat often study in  
Darby's because of its convenience.  
"We live off campus," said Rompf,  
"and the library closes too early so  
this is our only alternative."  
Woidat likes Darby's because of  
its club atmosphere. "It's a good mix  
between socializing and studying,"  
she said. "There are also a lot ofdark  
corners and benches to take naps  
on," said Rompf.  
Rompf and Woidat have spent  
nights studying in a more unusual  
location: the Howard johnson's res­ 
taurant. "They bring you a pot ofcof­ 
fee and let you stay there all night,"  
said Rompf. "It's the most fun place  
to study."  
Other students are less scientific  
about their methods for choosing a  
study environment Bob Gaffney, a  
senior from Stanford chooses the  
thirteenth floor because "I'm super­ 
stitious."  
For some people, the trek to the  
library isn't worth the effort. jenny  
Cantwell, a Farley freshman,  
migrates down to the Farley study  
lounge. "I can't study in my room,"  
she said. She prefers to remain in the  
dorm instead of the library because  
"I usually fall asleep at the library."  

Friday, April29, 1983-page 5 
The Observer 



U.S. bishops to meet over war, peace letter 
By TIM BUCKLEY 
News Staff 
In the midst of commotion, con­troversy, and criticism, the U.S. bis­hops will meet May 2-3 to discuss and debate the third draft of the Pas­toral Letter on War and Peace. 
In the letter, Father Richard War­ner, Provincial Superior of Holy Cross Priests and a member of the Bishops' Special Committee on Wac and Peace, said that there are three "signs of the times" which serve as reasons for addressing the nuclear arms issue: 
• I )The world wants peace and needs peace. 
• 
2)The arms race is the greatest curse on the human race. 

• 
3)Unique dangers and dynamics of the nuclear arms race present qualitatively new problems for tradi­tional moral principles. 


In response to criticism that the Catholic bishops, as moral leaders, overstep their authority when they engage in political affairs, W acner stated " ...there is no human con­cern which doesn't have moral dimensions." 
According to Warner, each bishop 
See LETTER, page 7 

Students: Special Rates 
-
UNIVERSITY RENT-A-SPACE 
53600 N. Ironwood 272-8821 

Self Storage ~Mini Warehouse 
•Low 
Monlhly Rates 

•Overhead 
Doors, •Clean-dry 

•Free 
Pallets 

• 
You keep the key 



Summer Storage 
Bring friends and share a space 
Store all your personal Items 
•Furniture 
• 
Recreational equipment 

• 
Automobiles •Inventories •Records 


•Boats 
SIZES •Paved 5x5 •Lighted 10 X 10 •Fenced 10 X 20 
• Patrolled 

University Park Mall 


''LOC81ed Olrecl!y be~lfld ANYTHING GROWS l .....m ancl Garden Center' 
; 
I I 
.•..
~·· 
·.·.
When it runs out ·.·. you won't have to. : 
·.•.
The exciting Pilot Ball Point. It's got everything 
going for it. Smoother writing. Specially designed 
fin~er ribbing for continual writing comfort. 
Statnless steel point. Tungsten carbide ball. Per­
fectly balanced. Achoice of medium or fine 
points. And best of all... you'll never throw it out. 
II
just slip in a 39c refill and you're ready to write again. So next time your old scratchy see-thru pen runs out, 
<aooutaodget [ 
J
a 69c Pilot Ball



~: ~fiii;.P'.. PILOT=· 

NEW SCHEDULE IN EFFECT 
Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! 
Travel United Limo to f:l from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE  LEAVE  
NOTRE  MICHIANA  
DAME  REGIONAL  
BUS  AIRPORT  ARRIVE  
SHELTER  SOUTH BEND  O'HARE  
3:15a.m. 5:15a.m. 7:15a.m. 9:15a.m. 11:15 a.m. 1:15 p.m. 3:15p.m. 5:15p.m.  3:45a.m. 5:45a.m. 7:45a.m. 9:45a.m. 11:4,5 a.m. 1:451p.m. 3:45 jl.m. 5:45p.m.  • 6:00a.m. 8:00a.m. 10:00 a.m. 12:00 p.m. 2:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 8:00p.m.  

ARRIVE ARRIVE MICHIANA NOTRE REGIONAL DAME 
LEAVE AIRPORT BUS O'HARE SOUTH BEND SHELTER 
8:30a.m. 10:45 a.m. 11:00 a.m. 
10:30 a.m. 12:45 p.m. 1:00 p.m. 
12:30 p.m. 2:45p.m. 3:00p.m. 2:30p.m. 4:45p.m. 5:00p.m. 4:30p.m. 6:45p.m. 7:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 8:45p.m. 9:00p.m. 8:30p.m. 10:45 p.m. 11:00 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 1:15 a.m. 1:30 a.m. 
ALL ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME. EFFECTIVE APRIL 24, 1983. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(219) 674·6993 
OR CALL YOUR ~ TRAVEL AGENT 
FORUMCINEMA. 
! Mile North of Notre Dome on U.S. 31 North Phone 277-1522 
Times: Friday 7:15,9:15, Sat & Sun 1:30,3:30,5:30,7:30,9:30 

The Observer Friday, April 29, 1983 -page 6 


Th~ Qi>s(:rver/Lucian Niemeyer· 
ThejazzBandplayed to a small crowd in front formance was unscheduled. The band played ofWashington Hallyesterday afternoon. The per-many tunesfrom the Big Band era. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION & THE STUDENT -ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP (SARG) 
present 
The Senior-Alumni Picnic 

Saturday, April30, 10:30 -12:30pm at Stepan Center 
HOT~S=NACKS ~ 
Meet Alumni Club representatives who will have information about clubs and cities. All Seniors invited· No Admission Charge 

Caucus receives office, plans for more services 
By CECILIA LUCERO 
SeniorStaffReporter 
"Education about women's issues and different viewpoints" on those issues is the objective of the Notre Dame Women's Caucus, said Mary Ellen Sternitzke, the organization's founder. 
The Women's Caucus has con­tinually expanded its services and activities since its registration as an official group last February, Ster­nitzke said. The organization plans on expanding its services next year. "A friend and I were talking about · how we wished there was an under­graduate women's organization 
,where anyone could get information (on women's issues)," Sternitzke said. She and Elizabeth Feely, a junior sociology major from Badin, decided to form a group to ac­comodate others who were in­terested in similar concerns. 
Stemitzke differentiated between the Women's Caucus and the Women's Advisory Council, whose membership is limited to one repre­sentative from each dorm. "We wanted something that more women -or anyone who is in­
terested -could belong to," she law, Sternitzke said. 
................. .•.• i• )OURHEY i• 
• at the A.C.C. --June 2 • :-100 tickets go on sale on May 2 : 




! STYX ! 
:· at the A.C.C. --June 26 : e 100 tickets go on sale on Tues., May 3 e : All tickets $13.50 at : • · S.U. Record Store •
• 


FURNITURE 
RENTALS 
Save yourself the hassle of truck rentals and labor. Select the quality pieces you need (at low monthly rates) and leave the work to us. We pick up and deliver! 
SOFAS -CHAIRS -END TABLES LAMPS -DINETTE & BEDROOM SETS Quality Furniture I low Monthly Rates 
SAVE 5% RESERVE YOUR SELECTIONS 
0 BY MAY 10th 
CALL (219) 291-2807 c~J,~~~~J~~~~, 
CAMPUS FURNITURE RENTALS, INC./P. 0. BOX 2683/SOUTH BEND, IN 46680 
said. "We're open to men and Saint Mary's members also." 
This spring, the Women's Caucus has set up an office in the basement of LaFortune to make themselves more accessible to students, Ster­nitzke said. Beginning next year, the office will establish regular evening hours, as well as provide phone in-· formation service to let people know about scheduled events such as movies and lectures. 
Services to be made available by the Women's Caucus in the future include referrals for volunteer work in 'the South Bend community and a resource library on women's issues. 
The Women's Caucus has co­sponsored with other groups lectures on topics and issues regard­ing women. These have included Elizabeth Fiorenza's In Memory of Her: A Feminist Reconstruction of Christian Origins;Being a Man: The Paradox ofMasculinity by Doctor Donald Bell; andGod asFemale and Male: Were the Shakers Feminist? 
by Marjorie Proctor-Smith. 
Another speakers' series is planned for next year. Topics in­clude women's health, violence against women, and women and the 

Staying up? so is Domino's Pizza 
from Apr. 29th till May 9th we'll be open from 4pm-4am 
~---------------, ~---------------,

i $2.00 ! i $1.00 ! 
I


i Off i Off i 
I 
I I
Two dollars oH the price I One dollar oH the price I of any 16" 2. item or of any 1 item or more
I 1 
more pizza. I pizza.
I 
One coupon per pizza. 1 One coupon per pizza.
I 
Expires May 9, 1983 1 Expires May 9, 1983
I I I 
II II 
Fast, Free Delivery Fast, Free Delivery 1 The location serving 1 The location serving 
iII.you: 
ill.you: 

I 1573o ...,. I 1s73o 
~---------------~

~---------------~ 
Call Us Call Us 
277-2151 277-21511 
All Pizzas Include Our 
Special Blend of Sauce 
and 100% Real Cheese 


fast We promise free delivery and fast, 30 minute service
free... to your door. All you have to do is call!
delivery 
Our drivers carry less than $10.00. 
Limited delivery area. 
©1981 Domono's Pozza. Inc. 


The Observer Friday, April29, 1983-page 7 
• • . Sp~nish 


ITTSBURGH CLUB LUGGAGE TRUCK 
Truck will load on Sunday, May 8 Stepan 8-Ball Courts 10:00-11:00 am Behind Bkstore 11:30-12:30 pm 
Lemans Lot (SMC) 2:00-3:00 pm 
Truck willl unload, Thurs, May 12 South Hills Village 10:00-11:00 am North Hills Village 1:00-2:00 pm 
Mark all luggage with drop-off point Payment in full when loaded! Make arrangements if you can't pick up your luggage in Pitts. Pitt club will not store unclaimed luggage 
continuedfrom page 1 
the eye and 'lip-synch' the words as she says them. I continually en­courage her, and she usually gets it right." 
Wirthman realizes the limitations of her instruction. Like most of the tutors, Wirthman has had only a few years of Spanish classes since high school. Her student, Alicia, is a maid in Howard Hall. "There's no way that I can teach her to speak English fluently," she says. "She doesn't have the grammatical background in Spanish that is necessary. But I can help her survive in her daily life. I can help her communicate with the Notre Dame students and other employees she encounters. I can help her be proud ofherself." 
Pride, according to Siguenza, is perhaps the most motivating force for · the Spanish-speaking people. "The parents feel inferior to their children," she says. "They need to learn English." 
This strong desire to learn the lan­guage prompts the students to study their lessons daily. Glenn Ramos, a Notre Dame sophomore, comments that his student, Eduardo Mero, is a serious student. "He listens intently to everything I teach him," Glenn says. "I give him vocabulary words every week. By the next class, he has them memorized perfectly. I'm very proud ofhim." 
The program, which is still 
• • . Letter 
continuedfrom page 5 
was given three weeks to study and amend the current draft. Six hundred amendments were then sent to the committee for considera­tion. After much deliberation, the committee will present its recom­mendatons for amendment passage or rejection to the bishops at the Chicago meeting. 
The bishops will then discuss and vote on each ofihe amendm~nts. Amendments from the floor will be considered as well. The council will then discuss whether to accept or reject the letter, or send it back to committee for further considera­tion. 
Warner disagreed with the premise that the letter is a novelty in the Catholic faith. He cited the 1976 pastoral letter "To Live in Jesus Christ" which said: "it is not only wrong to attack civilian populations but it is also wrong to threaten to at­tack them ...." 
Warner also cited Cardinal Krol's 
testimony in favor of SALT II in 
1979, in which he stated " ...the 
declared intent to use them 
(strategic nuclear weapons) ..." is 
morally wrong. 
developing, has been highly success­ful. Both tutors and students agree that they have benefited immensely from the sessions. "Anything Doug teaches me is more than I already know," Mr. Robledo says through O'Brien's interpretation. "I am very grateful to him for helping me." 
The tutors note several positive . effects of the program. The obvious effect has been on their mastery of Spanish. "I could sit in a Spanish class for years and not learn the practical aspects I have discovered in the past semester," O'Brien says. "When I'm with Mr. Robledo, I am forced to speak Spanish. Ifl fail, we can't com­municate. It's sink or swim." 
Juniors -­
The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. . s& 



Nowtheonly reason totake a traininEuropeisifyoucan'tdrive. 
Ifyou're going to Europe this summer, don't see it from a train. See it from behind the wheel of a Hertz car. It's less expensive than a European rail pass. And it costs even less when you share the ride with a friend. Plus with a Hertz car, there's never a charge for mileage. 
By renting from Hertz, you can reserve your car just 7 days before renting, you don't have to pay in advance, and in many cases there's no drop off charge. And unlike some rent-a-car companies, Hertz's minimum renting age is 18 years old. What's more, our prices are guaranteed in local currency through March 31,1984. So nb maner how much 
Hertz abo has lov; \\·cckly rates on larger (:ars. Ga:-. JnJ optional L'hargc:-. arc not indudcJ. Hertz dollar rate 
is hascJ on exchange rates as of .\\arch 23, 1983. 
Ramos mentions another ad­vantage the program offers the tutors. "It's a great feeling to be able to really help someone who needs it," he says. "Without my help, Eduardo might never learn to read and write English." 
The program, up to this point, has been strictly voluntary. The tutors have not been given any textbooks or m:~terials to use. Siguenza, however, has begun a campaign to seek financial aid from the Univer­sity for materials. "The University employs so many Spanish-speaking people," she says, "that it would seem beneficial for them to under­write the program." 

the dollar fluctuates, our rates won't. 
Hertz also saves you money when you're off the road. We offer discounts at over 1,500 hotels in Europe, including Holiday Inns. Rooms start as low as $28 per person, double occupancy ($17 in Britain), including breakfast, service 
and tax. 

For full details, call your travel agent. Or call Hertz at 1-800-654-3001. Ifyou think going by train is cheaper, you'll be pleased to discover 
you're way off THE #1 WAY TO RENT A CAR. 
track. 
Hertz rents Fords and other fine cars 


Space is still available for classified and display ads for the May 13th Graduation Issue of The Observer Say 'Good-bye' to friends with 
Observer "Personals" 
I 
Deadline for classified ads 3 pm Thursday, May 12 Deadline for Display ads ~ 1 pm Monday
May2 
~~ ~ ~ 
The Observer/Lucian Niemeyer 
This rock was painted pink and decorated like a pig during An Tostallast week. The rock sits Qn thepath between the architecture building and Sorin College. 

You must return your Senior Portrait proofs on the days below: 
A·J May 2  9:30 · 1:00  
K·O May 3  2:00 · 5:00  
P·Z May 4  2C LaFortune  

$5/proof fee if not returned! 





Editorials 
Friday, April29, 1983-page 8 
Would Jesus throw a grenade? 
Editor's note: This concludes a three part series examining the role ofROTC at Notre Dame 
Kevin Walsh 
Guest Columnist 
Commonly-heard justifications for ROTC at Notre Dame are: "There's a need for ethical or Christian leaders in the military" and "Wouldn't you rather have a Christian trained at a Catholic institution like Notre Dame in command of military forces and making military decisions rather than some non­Christian (pagan!) military leader?" 
When one remembers the central premise of this series concerning jesus and the gospel's message of peace, then these often­repeated justifications are absurd. Two pos­sible scenarios which demonstrate their absurdity involve the logic which underlies these justifications, since at some point, such logic breaks down. 
The first scenario involvesjesus Christ, our pacifist teacher, on some front line in a war zone, with gun in hand, leading the battle cry and firing numerous rounds against the "enemy." Can one truly imagine jesus "exerting his Christian influence" in such a fashion? 
Another scenario, even more absurd than the first, involves jesus at the control of the inJiunous "red button," deciding the fate of the world (and possibly the annihilation ofit) while maintaining his "Christian values" and providing"Christian leadership" for all to see. 
The bishops' pastoral, when stressing the Church's teaching on the dignity of each human, states: "To take a human life is to ap­proximate the role reserved to God; modern warfare threatens the obliteration of human life on a scale previously not imaginable." 
Upon completion ofthe ROTC program the student will be a part of the military system and may be required to "take a human life" and to participate in "modern warfare." All of this is directly opposed not only to the recent Bishops' pastoral but also to the central message of the Gospel. The justification for ROTC at Notre Dame based on the need for "ethical Christian military personnel" is ab­surd. 

Michael Garvey's recent article inU.S. Cath­olic entitled "Let's play taps for ROTC on Catholic Campuses" provoked much feed­back. It concerned the great good ROTC programs provide in their "development of moral character" or "ethical discipline." This should be the role ofthe Catholic university as a whole, to build moral character and instill ethical discipline. If Notre Dame already ful­fills that role and does in fact "instill moral character and ethical discipline," then it would not suffer by disestablishing ROTC. If, on the other hand, Notre Dame is not fulfilling that role, then it should by making the neces­sary curriculum adjustments. 
Notre Dame certainly should not have to rely upon ROTC as part of its curriculum in order to instill such values, for what would happen to the "poor souls" who for con­science reasons did not join ROTC? Wouldn't their moral development suffer? Such a scenario, odd though it is, might be imagined ifone takes Provost Timothy O'Meara's words seriously on this subject. In a recent Observer article (April21 ), describing the "Presidential Review" of the troops (an event normally presided over by Father Hesburgh, but due to his absence, under the review ofO'Meara) our Provost stated: "Our ethical values are developed by all walks of life, but especially by the armed forces (ROTC is this case). Both O'Meara and the previously-cited scenario suggest that those who join ROTC are the ones who "especially" develop ethical values, (and thus those of us who do not feel that we could ethically join ROTC are left to suffer from such a decision.) 
This is indeed a tragic scenario and an un­fortunate mentality. It could be corrected if Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, did not leave its 'ethical training" and "development of moral character" to the ROTC institution but instead did away with that institution and accepted "development of moral character" as essential to its very being. 

Where have they all gone? 
Even though most of us know large num­remain close to a small number of tht:-m ). lives. No matter how hard we hold on to the process and everything that has gone before bers of people, we generally tend to spend When we graduated, we all thought that we past, it will merely slip through our fingers. has made us what we are today. The past in­most of our time with a small, select group. would come home during the summer and The past is only memories and the future tluences what we arc today. The past exfsts From the time we are children with our first pick up where we left off. Sadly, this is hardly merely dreams, but the present is a wonderful today in how we think, act, and speak. In es­playmates, we center most of our activities ever the case. array ofpeople and experiences. sence, the past and present combine to make around our closest friends. Yet, they are usual­We have taken different directions than our I don't graduate until next year, but that us better able to live tomorrow. ly not the same people throughout our lives. high school friends and it is harder to find doesn't mean Ican't sit back and retlect on alii It's not a sad process, although it is difficult 
things that we share in common. Sometimes have with the people who are in my life right to give up our close relationships with certain these relationships are further strained when now. One day they too will become just people. If you want to grow up, live in, raise we get tired of discussing old times and we pictures in my yearbook or subjects of infre­children, and die in the same neighborhood, realize that we are so different now that our quent letters and telephone calls which may with the same people, then you will live a present times together are not very enriching. stop altogether. It seems such a shame that closed, parochial, and stagnant lifestyle. While 
Friday Analysis Now, most of the time we spend during the people who mean so much now will one day it might seem nice to hold onto our close summer is with our co-workers. Many of our have a negligible day to day role in our lives. I group of friends. to do so would greatly limit closest friends arc those we have made in col­would like to thank. all of them for playing our lives -is that fair to them or you? lege and they are usually very fur away. One such a special part in my life. Sometimes I get With each passing day I say goodbye to 
Our immediate group offriends changes as day these too will dissipate as we head in a so involved with the things around me that I some and hello to others. It is with happiness time passes and there is very little that we can thousand and one different directions. forget to appreciate all that they mean to me. that we greet new people and sadness that we do about it. Think for a minute if you will: We will move on to new places of But what about those people who have al­bid others fairwell. Still. I will always wonder Where are all ofyour closest friends from high residence, occupations, and friends. This pat­ready come and gone, where arc they now? where they have all gone. It is hard to think school? Each year it seems that they get far­tern of meeting, becoming close to, and then They are still with us, but not only as that today's best friend may be just a bit player ther and farther from us (although we may moving on, will continue throughout our memories. Life is an incremental growth in the course ofan entire life. 
RandyFahs 
Point and Co,unterpoint 
Distant authority to follow 
DearEditor: tinent to his audience, Hesburgh used the op­
In the April 22 Observer, the "Friday portunity to express a vindictive personal Analysis" discussed Notre Dame President opinion relevant only to the Notre Dame stu­Father Hesburgh's critical remarks at the an­dent body and the few others directly in­nual dinner ofthe Notre Dame Alumni Club of volved in the incident. Who sounds juvenile Buffalo. At this event, Father Hesburgh la­here -the newspaper which quietly discards mented the lack of discipline at Notre Dame a blatant insult from the internationally­and eventually worked his way into stating: known figure who also happens to be the "The Observer is a paper written by juveniles president of our University, or the and read by juveniles." As one of the internationally-known figure who makes pet­"juveniles" who reads The Observer, I feel ty remarks to a group of alumni about their compelled to reply to the implications of alma mater? Father Hesburgh's careless attack on the However, taking Father Hesburgh's Notre Dame community which he heads. remarks into consideration, are Notre Dame 
To begin with, the very way that The Ob­students really juvenile, and is there a lack of server treated Hesburgh's tirade should be discipline at our University? enough to disprove his remarks. Instead of Can Notre Dame students really mature blowing the incident out ofproportion, Randy when they have to follow rules enfored by a Fahs, the writer, put Hesburgh's remarks in distant authority? Maybe Father Hesburgh perspective. should consider this question the next time 
In addition, at this Buffalo dinner, Father he feels a yearning for the good old days of Hesburgh dug up the stale story of the inci­hard-line discipline, while at the same time dent at The Button, saying that the student in­complaining about the juvenility of his com­volved should have been expelled. Instead of munity. limiting his speech to topics directly per-Steve Ross 

Fahs' account faulty 
DearEditor: Hesburgh never said The Observer was writ­
I am writing this letter based on the beliet ten and read by juveniles. He said it was writ­that a properly run newspaper is charged with ten by juveniles for juveniles. My comment on the responsibility of accurately reporting a both Mr. Fahs' comment and Father's state­whole story, not excerpts that slant a story to ment is simply, "Read the list ofObserver staf­support the view of the writer. fers for 4/22/83, under Murphy's Law and 
In reading Randy Fahs' Friday Analysis. draw your own conclusions." "Hesburgh insults students and The Ob­Please note that 99.9 percent ofFather Hes­serlwr," (April 22) and based on the fact that burgh's address was an upbeat report on my wife and I were at the dinner, I must point Notre Dame and its students today with a out the following errors and omissions. 1 ) On­desire to see it continue to grow, not regress. ly 483 people were served dinner, not "nearly Having viewed Notre Dame's growth under one thousand." 2) Father's Red Square story Father Hcsburgh, first as a student then an was used to demonstrate Notre Dame's Family alumnus, I will close by saying, Notre Dame universality, not Father Hesburgh's. 3) He without his leadership would never have never referenced the "good old days," with become the outstanding university it is today. regards to coats, ties, regulations, discipline or But that only becomes apparant when you Notre Dame's liberalization. 4) Father Hes­have looked, loved, and grown over 28 years. burgh never said the student should be ex· William C. Kane '59 pelled. He commented that in the past, he Editor's note: The Observer regrets would have been expelled but a better solu­overstating the number ofpeople who were tion was found, thanks to the intercession of served dinner and stands corrected. We stand the student's friends and fellow dorm resi­behind the story in its explanation ofan off 
dents. He further stated that he was pleased the-cuff insult of The Observer and Notre the student would graduate on time. 5) Father Dame students. 
====Ihe Obseaer====Editorial Board
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic Saint Mary ·s tditor··----·--··----···Anne Monastyrslti Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe Sports F.aitor ·------·------··--·----···-----·Michael Riccardi The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Features Editor·----···---------------------··Sarah Hamilton versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily retlect News Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide Photo Editor.·-·-------·-·-·----·····--·--············Scon Bower the polictes of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as a<.:­News Editor.................................... Mark Worscheh curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon of a
i Department Managers
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries,let<ers, and the Inside Column present 
Business Manager ...........................Daniel O'Hare Production Manager --····-··-······Suzanne La Croix
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community,
I 
Circulation Manager________________________.Mark Miotto
Co111ro/ler ·································-·············Alex Szilvas 
anct the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Advertising Manager..........................Chris Owen 5_ystems Manager ·--·-----··--···-··-·-----·-··Bruce Oakley
Founded November 3,1966 

~ 
' 
Editorials Friday, April29, 1983-page 9 

P. 0. BoxQ 

Saint Mary's 
coverage. 
Dear Editor: 
The Observer claims to be "the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." We, the undersigned, would like to bring to attention one large area in which we feel that the interests ofSaint Mary's students are not being served. We refer to The Observer's coverage of Saint Mary's athletics, and, as paying customers, we feel that we are entitled to fair coverage on the events that take place on our campus. 
Saint Mary's competes in seven varsity and five intramural sports. Coverage of these has been inadequate, delayed, and, more often than not, erroneous. Articles on Saint Mary's sports have been deleted in order to fill space with profiles of those who take part in sports at Notre Dame. We are left with day-old sum­maries relegated to "Sports Briefs," and our achievements are unjustly pushed aside to make room for events and activities that take place at Notre Dame. 
To compound this problem, by focusing too much interest on the competitions that take place between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women, The Observer staff promotes Notre Dame women and consistently downplays the accomplishments of Saint Mary's women. Greater effort and space are devoted to Notre Dame women athletes when they win; our wins against Notre Dame are briefly summarized and occupy spaces easily passed over by those who read your paper. 
The athletes, coaches and athletic staff con­cerned are willing to cooperate in an effort to attain fair coverage ofthe sporting events that involve Saint Mary's. We hope to improve upon a situation which we, as paying cus­tomers, find to be unsuitable in its present state. The Observer is a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's publication. We are requesting that this newspaper give us the coverage to which we are entitled. 
357 concerned members ofthe Saint Mary's Community 

Walsh myopic 
Dear Editor: 
Kevin Walsh's assertion that the presence of ROTC at Notre Dame is incompatible with Christian teaching is fraught with moral in­consistency and irresponsibility. 
Notre Dame is a Catholic university and the Catholic Church states that service in the armed forces is congruous with the doctrine of the Church and Christ when acting as a securer ofpeace and human freedom. 
I don't know if it will ever be possible for someone to convince me that I am wrong in protecting the lives of those I love, or those who are innocent or defenseless, from those who wish to murder, subjugate, or willingly take away others' humanity and freedom. Mr. Walsh can sit irresponsibly detached from the affairs, now that he refuses to dirty his hands with such "immorality.'' I wonder who will feel more comfortable in his fmal audience with God, he, who refused to help protect those who needed protecting, or I, who refused to allow innocent people to be mur­dered or enslaved by tyrants. 
Mr. Walsh's moral inconsistancy is glaringly apparent in the main point of his article, that ROTC doesn't belong at Notre Dame. Who will will benefit? The Notre Dame com· munity? Why stop with just the "bad element" of the ROTC. Why not have an inquisition to purge all the "bad or evil" from our midst? We could leave Mr. Walsh all by himself in his Notre Dame community, shielded away in his ivory tower. 
Will removing the ROTC from Notre Dame benefit the Church? It does more good to have an ROTC unit at a Catholic university where the ROTC students learn Catholic morals and Christian ideals and carry them through their military careers. Contrary to pacifist thought, Catholics can provide a good, moral influence on the military and this influence should be continued. 
I applaud Mr. Walsh's intentions. I only deplore misguided propositions. Pacifism isn't the only position supported by the Cath­olic Church as he leads us to believe. He fails to realize that pacifism requires pervasive and true belief to be morally correct. Where even one person exists, harming others, we have an obligation to stop him. Similarly, it won't work to tell everyone to start acting like pacifists. 
We would all have to honestly accept pacifism We deserve the same respect that any other ly companions after 3 a.m. As a spring breeze before it would work. institution is given. Just because we are caressed my face, I sat and sat -staring into 
Selfdefense ofthe individual is not the main located across the street from Notre Dame the darkness where I knew a lake entertained purpose of the military. It is to defend others should not make us fair game for mindless in­those ducks. That night I cared not about who are unable to defend themselves against sults. grades or resumes, careers, or recommenda­unjust aggression. When Jesus spoke of Perhaps each ofus can think about this over tions. I began formulating my life's values. "turning the other cheek," he was referring to the summer. Then when we return to our One thing Notre Dame does, which evc:n a his response to violence directed toward him respective campuses this fall we can each Georgetown doesn't, is instill a profound alone. I know of no part in the Bible where make an attempt to show one another the sense of values in its students. Seniors today Jesus allowed an in,nocent person to be respect that is due between our two institu­don't seem to wear those values on their harmed or killed through his cwn inaction. tions. sleeves like we did. I was lucky. I lived just a 
On the contrary, facing an angry mob, he Kelly O'Shea few doors away from Professor Frank defended the adultress from being stoned. O'Malley -probably one of the University's Just as Jesus unselfishly sacrificed his own life greatest teachers of how a Christian ap­for the good ofall of us, so do the members of proaches life. Although he confined himselfto the military risk their's in defense of this a bottle all night, he showered himself upon

Knife-throwing
country and all its citizens. the students in late afternoon. He was the Midn. Michael Leary most popular professor on campus. To this 
Dear Editor: 

Midn. Robert McMonagle day I place a candle at his grave each time I 
I am a member of the Notre Dame com­visit the campus. Moreover, I hope that I can munity. Furthermore, as an undergraduate ad­be as positive an influence on today's young
missions counselor I am very much involved men and who follow
women me throughin the selection of future members of the Notre Dame. He showed that in a world of

Shoe responds 

Notre Dame community. I would like to think doubt and strong competition, values lift youthat our admissions staff does a pretty good above others. 
job of recognizing creative minds within our
DearEditor: . 

I find that seniors today "throat" each otherapplicant pool, however, a recent incidentI would like to make a couple ofcomments .to death at the 'brar.' Granted the economicc_aused me to r~tion a couple of our deci­concerning my involvement with the times are hard, and granted the competition
SIOns.
Bookstore Basketball incident last week. It has gotten fierce. But while you are pursuing aAs I 'Y:ISdriving on the road by the lakewas mentioned in a recent article that I am an career, don't forget to take the hand ofa childleavingmy office Tuesday evening, a creativeassistant basketball coach and that is true. The or visit a senior citizen. Don't be so damn im­mind apparently decided that a "dining hallbasketball program had no relation to the portant that you can't "blow off' an afternoonbutter knife-throwing contest" would be fun.

Bookstore incident -this is truly a class or­to be with your family or show a student howUnfortunately, that butter knife cracked theganization. I hope that when people say that I front windshield car. I was your company works. The more you are stuck

of my lucky,
am a class individual the label is well on yourself, the less others will be stuck on 

deserved. All of us associated with this great however. Had that same creative mind you. I found that twilight can sometimes bedecided to throw the knife a fraction of aUniversity have worked very hard to build the clearest time ofday.
second later, the knife would have probablysuch an outstanding image and reputation. I As the twilight dissolved, red lit the trees.
lodged in my skull or my left eye. 
love this institution, the mystique, tradition, Then orange. And fmally the sun was reflect­I have been told by a few that this is not aand the team "family.'' We at Notre Dame stick ing off the lake into my eyes. In the earlynew game; that it has gone on for a few years t9gether, whether the opposition be Southern 1970s with war stories and statisticsnow. Perhaps the way to solve this and getCalifornia, Michigan, UCLA -we are a family. 

daily on Notre
around this kind ofcreative thinking is to ask bombarding me the news,We can overcome all the little happenings in Dame sunrises were my escapes to peace. I've on our application point blank, "Would youour own backyard. 
watched more sunrises from the window thanparticipate in knife throwing competition ifI would like to conclude by saying I love I can remember.
accepted?"

Notre Dame (Our Lady)and what it stands for. To that member of the Notre Dame com­What I do remember about that window
I am proud of the fact that I belong here as munity who did not admit his guilt on Tues­may even shock today's seniors. I can remem­much as anyone, which is truly a unique and 

threw

warm feeling. I hope that there is a lesson to ·day evening: Perhaps we made a selection ber the Morrissey RA at whom we mistake in your particular case. If this is your water balloons whenever he departed for
be learned from this Bookstore incident. The idea of constructive thinking, I pray that Saint Mary's. Once as he and his girlfriendevent was a very unfortunate situation, one I others around you have not caught on to it. returned, we filled a balloon with Hershey's

defmitely did not need. But at the conclusion This type ofcreativity we can simply do with­chocolate and launched our luckiest shot ­
ofthe incident when the students gave me the 

out here. hit her squarely and splattered him severely. I warm applause, I knew then that we were Phyllis K Washington also remember the fire at the end ofmy juniorabove all other rhetoric. I would like to say year when we threw smoldering mattressesthank you to everyone for your support and out of that window and onto the parking lot. 
warm compassion, for this is truly what Notre But the ultimate was egging a security carDame is all about. 


A Notre Dame 
which was responding to a complaint from
john H. Shumate 

• our favorite Morrissey RA.
sunrzse In retrospect I now see I was just growing up. Everyone goes through similar ex­To the class of'83 periences. I often hurt badly on that window

Saint Mary's 

Everyone who attends Notre Dame sooner ledge. I often sang softly to myself there ­or later finds a location that becomes a "four dead in Ohio." I shed a few tears and

pride 

"favorite place.'' Seniors should think about even prayed there. But what always com­theirs. Mine was the third floor window ledge forted me was the knowledge that I had anoth­DearEditm·: above the arch in Lyons Hall. In those days of er sunrise to watch if I needed it. The year is drawing to an end. Ifthe college the Vietnam War and Watergate, all Lyons 
I've mellowed some during my ten yearscommunity has reached its goal, each of us residents were men unlike today's 
away from Notre Dame. But the fire of Chris­should be a little wiser and more mature. Un-"suspected few." In reality I graduated ten 
tian values rages within me. I would like for fortunately, this does not seem to be the case years ago, but Ican still feel that wooden ledge 
everyone to be able to sit in that window and in terms of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame rela-today. appreciate life the way I did -slowly and del­tions. The same immature stereotypes and Today's seniors are quite different from my 
icately. Whether it's the Lyons arch or the criticisms that were thrown about at the class. During my time at Notre Dame, the 
Morrissey roof, it isn't the methodology but beginning ofthe year can still be found on the mood of the country was chaotic, divisive. I 
the results that count. pages ofThe Observer. was never so shocked as when I heard of the 
Some seniors may not comprehend what I On April 25, three comments printed in The Kent State killings my freshman· year. My col­
have experienced. But most "Domers" Observer were at the expense of Saint Mary's leagues, my brother and sister students, were 
develop values even ifonly by osmosis ... the students. On page 16 Mike Sullivan wrote, shot by Americans in the United States. It 
place does that to you. You learn that you can " ... it wasn't hard to see why the Notre Dame could have been me. be a Christian and be human as well. What youvarsity doesn't have many problems with the For the first time in my life, something im­
think you can be is not as important as what Saint Mary's varsity." On page 7 Sarah Hamil· portant concerned me. School was secondary. 
you are. But what you do with your life over­ton quipped," ... I knew it was my role to grit Truth, Justice, and Good were now my shadows can the
everything. You change my teeth at the very sight ofaSMC chick.'' And priorities. On that May evening in 1970 I first 
world ifonly you find your window ledge and at the bottom of the same page Bruce Oakley sat in the archway window for the entire night 
watch the sunrise. wrote, "I have laughed at stereotypical images -thinking. of women from SMC chicks to Valley Girls to .--T_h_e_d_u_c_k_s_o_n_s_a_in_t_M_ary...;_'_s_lak_e_w__e_re_m...;y_o_n_-_____________G_a_ry_J_._c_a_rus__o-l cheerleaders." Each of these comments were probably meant in fun, but when on one day 2,000 women are insulted three times by a newspaper that they are a part of, it gets to be a bit much. Most Saint Mary's women do ap­preciate a good joke. But as everyone knows, a joke is funniest when you are laughingwith its teller -not when you are being laughed at. We are proud ofour College. We think it is an excellent institution of higher education, otherwise we would not be here. We take the 
J 
same pride in Saint Mary's College that Notre Dame students take in their school. Isn't it about time that we "SMC chicks" be respected 

I 
for the choice we have made to attend Saint Mary's? 

l 
We are a separate institution with a separate identity. We should not be considered an enemy, a challenge or a threat to Notre Dame. 

j 

~ 
I I 
I ' 
-~--~~-~ ----~--------------~---------------, 

Asummer of sequels an~ 
T
he month of May is fast ap­great a phenomenon, in the world of the company ofnew Rebel and Im­proaching, and along with fmals, cinema, as it's two predecessors. perial ships.Jabba the Hutt's bizzare graduation, and the end ofanother ln]edi, the leading cast members Sail Barge skims above the sea of school term, comes the beginningof return to do battle once again in the desert sand. Lightsabers once again the lucrative summer season for ongoing struggle between the flash and hum. And the illusion of Hollywood's movie makers. The on­heroes ofthe Rebel Alliance, and the deep space and sparkling stars magi­set ofthe 1983 summer will witness evil Imperial Forces of Darkness. cally and convincingly fills the thf" debut ofmany movie_• among Mark Hamill returns as Luke screen. 
Skywalker, with Harrison Ford as Action in The Return ofthejedi
Han Solo, Carrie Fisher as Princess
Doug ffiurph.Y 

ranges from the Emperor's Throne
Leia Organa, Billy Dee Williams as 
Room and the desert planet
Lando Calrissian, the 'droids C-3PO 
Tatooine, to the misty forestedand R2-D2, Chewbacca, Obi-wan moon, Endor. The plot follows thefeo.tutes Kenobi, and Yoda. Together, they attempts by the Rebel Commanders 
oppose the towering, black-robed
them, eagerly awaited sequels to the to plan their next move against the
villain, Darth Vader. An amazing ar­
great hits, Superman andStar Wars, evil Galactic Empire. For the first 
ray of new intergalactic denizens,
along with other different, and time, they concentrate all the war­
many ofexotic origin, also populates
interesting features, such as Steve ships in the Rebel fleet in a single, 
jedi; the reptilian Admiral Ackbar, 
Martin's latest, The Man With Two giant Armada. Luke and Princess
the pig-like Gamorrean Guards,Jab­
Brains. Leia, meanwhile, make their way to
ba the Hutt, the semi-human Bib For­
The new chapter in theStar Wars Tatooine, to try to rescue their
tuna, and many more, including the
Saga, Return ofthejedi, concludes carbon-frozen friend Han Solo from
cosmic musical trio of Max Rebo, Sy
the middle third of the nine part the clutches ofthe vile gangster)ab­
Snootles, and Droopy McCool. 
space adventure series, which ba the Hutt. However, the prospect creator and producer George Lucas The special effects are once again that the Rebellion is doomed arises, conceived as three trilogies set "a the key to this impressive adventure. for the Galactic Emperor orders the long time ago in a galaxy far, far As the result ofLucas's technical and construction ofa new armored away ..." Drawn from fairy tales, creative wizardry, the story once Space Station, many times more myths, and myriad cultural in­again comes to life. The Millennium powerful than the dreaded Death fluences, the film promises to be ~ Falcon again soars through space in Star. All these prodigious forces in-

Achance to grow 
I
've never been much ofa cook, and the thought of She wasn't home from work yet,but her daughter preparing dinner for ten people was enough to send invited us in and told us we could begin cooking. me into hysterics. Yet somehow I found myseiforganiz­
I still don't know how this happened, but I'd managing the monthly meeting ofour Senior Reflection to lose the lasagna recipe somewhere between the I Group, 16 seniors gathered at a faculty member's home grocery store and Terry's house. What to do? I had i for dinner and informal discussion. 
copied the recipe earlier in the day, so I was vaguelyPlanning the affair was not too difficult, but I had un­
aware ofthe instructions. Still, I'm no Galloping Gou: met, .md I wasn't ready for this. I asked Pat what he 
knew about making lasagna, but he had never made t either. We grabbed the nearest cookbook and found, lasagna recipe, but it t didn't match the ingredients~ had already bought. We had no choice but to improvi'
featutes Some tomatoes here, some oregano there -who derestimated the amount oftime it would take to make would ever know that we didn't know what we were the necessary preparations. On Tuesday night I began doing? planningfor our Wednesday dinner. F.irst I called all the 

Daphne Bailie 

By 6 p.m. Terry was home and the other students hi 
members ofour group, most ofwhom weren't home. 
arnved. We sat down at the dining room table and s~ (Silly me, 1 thought calling 16 people would take no 
grace together before eating. The dinner was a succi more than halfan hour!) I did get hold ofsome people 
from the lasagna and salad to the garlic bread and though: "Hello ...Will you be able to come to-dinner 
dessert -and no one even suspected that we were tomorrow night? ... Have you taken your turn at 
rookies! After the meal, which was entertaining wid cooking yet? ...Meet at the main circle at 5:45 ..." 
light conversation, we retired to the living room to I also had to recruit people to cookwith me. Normal­
begin the evening discussion. ly four did the cooking, but this time two of us would 
In our previous meetings we had discussed our Nohave to wing ft. By noon Wednesday I had found nine Dame years, family and social responsibilities, war, :seniors who could attend, one person, Pat, who could world affairs, and other related topics. Tonight we \cook with me, a ride to the grocery store, and a recipe decided to talk about Catholic doctrine and the rolefor lasagna. Progress! · women in the Church. We started by discussing paqAt the grocery store we dashed about looking for the tals at Notre Dame, and how much school rules refld freshest lettuce, the best-tasting butter, the cheapest the rules or traditions of the Catholic Church. Later jricotta cheese -poor college students have to debated the possibility ofwomen becoming pri test~ economize too! The bill was only $21 -not bad for ofpriests being allowed to marry. · feeding ten people. 
"We had a lot ofchanges in the Church through , At 4:30 p.m. Pat and I showed up at the home ofour Vatican II," offered one student. "It takes time to m hostess, Terry, a professor at Notre Dame's law school. 
chan es, but I think that eventually we'll have both 
The mouse of heaven 
M
onday, Darby O'Gillll got a bath and a haircut. The groomer, who must have thought she was getting GIJoe ready for boot­camp, trimmed the poor beastie down to the skin. Now, he is ashamed to look so naked. The groomer also left him with clipper burns in unmentionable places, and you can imagine how that feels. I have a nervous little dog on my hands, embarrassed that people are laughing at him. I keep saying, ''Your real friends will love you anyway, Darby." I hope it is true. Obviously, I can't tell you everything Darby O'Gill has on his 
mind, but I think, ifhe understood life, he would want to say how 
grateful he is. A poor, unlettered creature, who went to obedience 
school without graduating, lives in a fme, big dorm with Notre Dame 
students, and he never took the SAT's. The fine imagination ofJeb 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
lettets to a lonely god 

Cashin has created the fiction ofa mouse named Simon living in PE. Simon's career at Notre Dame will end withJeb's graduation; then, he will just be a pen and ink rodent, fading away in a drawer, a memory belongingto paper. The priest he liveswith will likewise be insubstantial. DarbyO'Gill, ifhe's lucky, will continue to monitor the campuschipmunksfor manyyears. He would want me to tell you it's an honor to be with you at Notre Dame. 
Simon's Father Torres must feel towards his mouse as I feel towards my cocker spaniel. Simon and Darby are hostages whom theirmasters have given to fortune. Parentsgive hostages to fortune when they begin families. Life has more ofa chance to hurt you, if you have a mouse, a dog, or a child. A child will also increase your chances offeeling fulfilled; parents have dreams ofhow blessed life canbefor theirfamilies. Darbyis never going to apply to med school, or make it big in the movies. That's all right, because I just want him healthy, happy, clean, and out oftrouble. Father Torres must want most to keep Simon away from the claws ofthe cat. Mice must be even less fulfllling to their masters than a dog would be. 
Somebody must have askedJeb why Father Torres would want to keep a mouse as a pet.Jeb could have answered, "Simon has a mouth to feed, a life to look after. He's one ofGod's creatures to be respon­sible for." Everyone, even fictional priests, need something and someone to be faithful to: an essential body oftruths we call a creed; a necessary list ofdecencies we claim as morality; an important list of peoplewe care about, like the members ofa family. Without getting silly or sentimental about it, the house, the gold fish, the gerbils de­pendent on us for survival are extensions ofour families. It could never hun a priest like Father Torres to be concerned and on guard against the traps and pitfall threatening an inoffensive life. 
Priests' petscan become spoiled, bloated creatureswhom the rec­tory hates. Nothing is more offensive than the pastor's dog, the ReverendMother's cat, taking over the furniture, explosive with gas, as monstrous and selfish as Garfield the Unnecessary. Students in PE not liking mice shouldn't have to deal with Simon. Torres, ifhe needed to, could shove him in a drawer. On their best days, Torres and Simon make a team, with Simon servingas the mouse ofheaven; the shepherd ministering to the sheep, the rodent counselling the mousey types. 
I tend to think ofthe open space between the towers and the Pasquerillas as Darby's Quad. He is certainly the Resident Creature, acting like a maitre d' to the wild life, jealous ofthe fauna; attentive, witha legup, to the flora I don't think he would be jealous ofSimon. I think he would have acted like the elder statesman initiating the rookie congressm'an. Simon, like his master, might be a little laid backfor Darby'staste; Darby, I hope, would insist onfmding respect from the mouse for the senior priest with whom he lives. I'm sorry that Simon and Darby never met as co-ministers and neighbors, paraprofessionals appearing in a scenario ofJeb's imagination. 
Simon and Father Torres are able to hold conversations as comic 
strip characters. Darby, without words, makes his feelings known, 
especiallynow, when he's experiencing the heartbreak ofnudity. He 
wouldwant me to tellSimonit's been a pleasure to share a quad with 
him. 
I hope it is not the end for Simon. Any priest who keeps a mouse 
has critics. FatherTorres without Simon would be diminished, and 
his ministry would be diminished. Words that the priest can't say, 
the mouse says for him, just by being available for small affections. 
Keeping a pet is a form ofwork, because it involves time, money, 
and caring. Who can say the Kingdom ofHeaven is not brought 
closer hy the tenderpartnership between man and mouse? It's a 
mistake to limit ourexpectations to a lion and a lamb lyingdown to­
gether. 
Thank you,Jeb. Thank you, Simon-:-LOve from Darby O'Gill. 
J~A/ CI/N ~OD !XJ IINYTHING ? 

oh.. 
I 

' 

-

-----~--------------~--------------------------------~ 

The Observer Features Sczction 
Friday, April29, 1983-page 11 
thQt 'wild Qnd crQZ.Y guy' 
exorably concentrate upon one an­other to provoke the thrilling conclusions to previously un­resolved questions ofthe earlier chapters ofthe saga. The finale provides an end to a tale which has filled the screen with adventure, romance, and entertaining wizardry since the original release ofStar Wars in 1977. 
The next chapter in the Super­man series also promises to become a ~eat sucess this summer, if the performance ofits two predecessors are any indication. Superman and it's sequel, Superman II, have to­gether tallied over S600 million at the worldwide box office thus far. 
Apparantly the Man ofSteel has producers hope to guarantee viewer continuing series offilms concern­
made a triumphant transition from attention by offering the familiar ing the superhero. the comic book to the silver screen. characters and format in an entirely Now, with Superman III, the different plot and setting. · An example ofa "different" sort of producers hope to create a bonanza It was a quest for something new. film that will be released this sum­
once again. Returning are the exciting, and different that led to the mer is Steve Martin's The Man With 
originals from the first movie; Chris­story line's evolution. Superman Two Brains, a bizzare medical farce topher Reeve as Clark Kent battles against a mixture ofvillainy in the Martin comedic tradition. In (Superman), Margot Kidder as Lois and modem technology: a criminal­it, he portrays an outrageous 
Lane, Jackie Cooper as editor Perry ly insane computer, and a psychic neurosurgeon, Dr. Michael Hfuh­
White, and Marc McClure as boy force so diabolical that it threatens ruhurr (I can't pronounce it either!), reporterJimmy Olsen. A slewofnew to literally tear Superman apart. The who becomes involved with a crazy adversaries arise in this epic as well; evilcomputer is controlled by Pryor scheme involving mismatched Robert Vaughn plays a meglomaniac who, in tum, is employed by tycoon brains and bodies. This film is a se­tycoon who seeks to twi~t the secret Vaughn in his attempt to take over quel ofsorts, as it reunites the acting, ofcontrolling Earth's environment the world. Billed as the ultimate producing, and directing team that to his own nefar.ious ends. Annette battle between man and machine, starred in Thejerk, and bombed in 
O'Toole emerges to complicate Superman III is yet another in a pos­Dead Men Don't WearPlaid. While Clark Kent's life as his high school sibly endless, successful, The Man With Two Brains sweetheart, Lana Lang. Richard represents the latest effort ofcom­
Pryor, in what appears to be a great edic genius, Carl Reiner, it remains role for his comic talents, portrays a to be seen whether it will be ofthe bumbling genius, who is plucked same, high caliber ofslapstick from the obscurity ofthe unemploy­humor that was so evident in The ment line to create the ultimate jerk. Steve Martin's reputation as a 
weapon. uniquely bizzare funny man is well­established on stage and TV, but, The difference between this kind 
given his inconsistent performances 

ofmovie sequel and the Star Wars in past major motion pictures, the saga is, while one can trace a most charitable comment to be continuing and evolving story 
made about his current movie is that throughout the three Star Wars 
it's potential should be experienced, films, eachSuperman movie is not pre-judged. entirely self-contained. However, the producers made sure that each Return ofthe]edi, Superman III, succeeding film plot built itselfupon and The Man With Two Brains, are the previous ones, assuring their only three example ofthe summer ·continuity. Superman III, in this movies being released in May. For way, deals with progressively dif­the movie-goer, each offers diverse ferent situations than either of the and enjoyable entertainment for two previous films. Thus, the their prospective fans. 



· •DANCE 
Don't miss your last chance to see the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's 
Dance Theatre perform this year. "Homage to Isadora," the com­
pany's spring presentation opens tonight at 8 p.m. Its run continues 
with 8 p.m. performances April 30, May 12 an<;t 13, and a May 1 at 2 
p.m. This finale features guest artist Kathleen Quinlan. All perfor­mances are at O'Laughlin Auditorium and tickets are $3 general ad­mission and S2.50 fQr students, seniorcitizens, faculty and staff. And there's an opening night special -two for the price ofone. 
An alternative for dance lovers makes itself available tonight at 8 
p.m. The Patchwork Dance Company proudly presents its 1983 Spring Concert, "Smorgasboard" at the Century Center Bendix Theatre in celebration ofNational Dance Week (April24-30, 1983). The unique theme ofthis concert promises to deliver an evening of variety in music selections and dance styles. Admission is $4.50 for adults and S3.50 for children and senior citizens and tickets are available at the Century Center Box Office. 
•MUSIC The campus will be alive with music tonight as the Notre Dame Chorale members lift their voices in concert. Sponsored by the ND Department ofMusic, the concert is scheduled for Washington Hall at 9 p.m. For further information call239-6201. The Dept. of Music will be busy this weekend as they are also sponsoringJudy Kay DeBruyne in an organ recital in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday at 8:15 p.m. 
•MOVIES 
The Friday Night Film Series concludes this weekend with a French flick, "Diva," a remarkaby fresh and original work at the forefront ofa kind of French New Wave. This 1980's style romantic thriller can be seen for S2 admission in the Annenberg Auditorium tonight at 7:30p.m. 
•CHAUTAUQUA 
And yes, this is it ...the very last Chance to Dance ofthe 1982-83 school year. Tonight from 9:30p.m. to 1:30 a.m. the Chautauqua Ballroom will be rocking to the sound ofthe Kinetics. Sponsored by the Student Union, the festivities will cost only S1. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
Not to forget our soon-to-depart seniors, there are ofcourse ac­tivities planned for them for the weekend as part ofsenior month. This evening from 4-7 p.m. the Tippecanoe Place Ballroom is reserved for all senior "chicks" and "domers." S 1 will buy plenty of 
food along with special drinking rates. 
Saturday, seniors can sip free suds before the Blue-Gold Game with alumni at the senior-alumni tailgater. For further information call Usa at 283-3882. 
The fun won't end for seniorswith the Blue-Gold game as a senior­alumni picnic is scheduled thereafter. Join your fellow domers both present and past for free steaks and brats. 
before we go: senior reflection groups 
married priests and female priests." "Which will come first?" asked Terry. 
The student, a female, responded without hesitation, "Married priests -we have to please the men first!" "You've been at Notre Dame too long," Terry laughed. 
The topics ofdiscussion vary; sometimes we discus~ serious matters such as death and poverty, often we chat about school or funny incidents that have hap­pened to us recently. After a semester of monthly din­ners and discussions, we will wrap up the year with a weekend retreat at a cabin on Lake Michigan. 
How did all this get started? 
Mary Ann Roemer, faculty-student liaison and originator of the Senior Reflection Groups, explains. "This came out ofbeing around Notre Dame seniors and seeing them become nostalgic and reflective before graduation. Also, a lot ofstudents become cynical, or they don't know how to deal with a lot ofwhat they're thinking about. I didn't see a lot ofplaces where stu­dents couldgo and discuss these things. I thought some­thing like the Senior Reflection Group would provide such an atmosphere. The topics that are discussed are fun, interesting, and relevant." 
Roemer began the first group a year ago, and now there are seven groups that meet re~ularly. Most ofthe faculty or staff members who host a group become in­terested after talking to Roemer. 
Kathy Bego, the student who organized the group which Terry hosts, explains her involvement. "I'll be a Holy CROSS Associate in Chile next year, and I met Mary Ann through the Holy Cross program (which is based at the Center for Social Concerns on campus). She asked me ifI'd like to pull a group together." 
Once Roemer had found students interested in organizing reflection groups, she sought students who would be interested in participating in these groups. This was done by contacting other students who had expressed an interest in this sort ofget-together, and suggestions from other people. 
"A nice camaraderie builds up between the mem­bers," says Roemer. "We try to organize a diverse group -that's important. We don't want a group ofstudents just involved in social justice, or just student govern­ment, we want a mix." 
Sue Fleck, who helped to organize another group, agrees. "The idea is not to know everyone in your group, so you can get to know them. The way we chose our groups waS totally random; we had the names ofthe students that Mary Ann had suggested, plus others, and we just pulled them out ofa hat. Then we called them to see ifthey were interested, and ifthey couldn't do it, then we used suggestions from other people." 
Sometimes it happened that studentswere interested in belonging to a group, but were not contacted through the above methods. These students gave their names to Roemer saying that the would be interested if any other groups were formed. Some students, such as Ann Butler, told Roemer that they would like to or­ganize a group themselves. 
"I went to Mary Ann Roemer and said that I'd like to 
start a group," says Butler. "She gave me the names ofa 
bunch ofother students, and she also gave me the name 
ofKate Clinton, who works in the Administration Build­
ing and had told Mary Ann that she'd like to host a 
group. 
• "Everythiing has worked out great," continues But­ler. "Kate is great -she's young and dynamic and lots of 

fun. This whole group has been really neat." Most ofthe seniors involved in the reflection groups seem to think that the experience has been beneficial. The once-a-month outing provides an opportunity to discuss issues that are on their minds, get to know other seniors in an informal setting, and enjoy a home-cooked meal at the same time. What goes on at the meetings is carried back to campus, where the seniors continue to exchange ideas and build friendships with one another. (Word has it that two students who met through their Senior Reflection Group even went to the Senior For­mal together.) 
Fleck elaborates on the benefits ofthe group. "The group allows you to talk about things that might be on your mind. It's a reflecton ofyour four years, a way of lookingbackat how thingsare and how they have been. It also gives you time out to relax, to leave campus and say, 'This is time justto sit and think.' The enrichment is a hard thing to define." 
All in all, the groups have run smoothly, and discus­sions have been enlihtening. "I was very pleased and in­terested at the depth ofthe discussions," offers professor and group hostess Elizabeth Christman. "I'm impressed with the way people are willing to tJpen themselves to one another." 
"Sometimes there's a tendency to let the group go and not meet," says Roemer. "At first I was tempted to push them, but it's the students' group -they can get together when they wish. 
"Overall, I think we've started something very good... 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who will be seniors next year and would like to be in a group, please call239-5239 or stop at the Center for Social Concerns to sign up. There will be ten groups starting in the fall. 
Sports Briel§ 
Friday, April29, 1983-page 12 
c===~================================~========~
by The Obserz•er and The Associated Prm 
N H L Playoffs

There are other athletic events tomorrow The lacrosse team plays Oberlin tomorrow on Alumni Field unless it on campus besides the Blue-Gold game. The Irish baseball team, rains. In that case, the game will be played on Cartier. Also, the Saint 
Boston 4, N.Y. Islanders 1 
fighting for a spot in the Midwestern City Conference playoffs, hosts Mary's track team will host Little State. -The Obseroer 
(series tied at 1-1)
a doubleheader against MCC foe Butler at 1 p.m. on jake Kline Field. 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the
Classifieds mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES 
Annual Awards Banquet for all LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS. 6-9 p.m. at Logan Center. Semi-formal attire re­quested. Please attend!! I Question Is?Call Eileen at 2986 or Mary 8067. 
WILSON DRIVEAWAY: CARS to MAJOR CITIES. YOU PAY GAS & TOLLS (Security Dept. Req. pickup in Chicago) CALL BOB: 233-6495 
TYPING. Jackie Boggs. 684-8793. 
Bqarding horses. 1 mi. from N.D. Covered arena. 277-5828 (ring 12x) 
Typing ALL KINDS. After 6 p.m. 277­
8534. 
FREE DEUVERYI The Yellow Sub­marine delivers Tues., Thurs., Fri., and Sat., nights to NO, SMC, HC betwMn 9-12 p.m. Choices of subs Include roast beef, corned, turkey, meatball, and many other tasty delights. Calf 
272-4453. 
Housesifters available June-August. Responsible married couple woll ex­change light maintenance for housing. Call Roberta 237-4444 from 8-5. 
MAKE YOUR SCHOOLS OUT PARTY A SMASH. LET CREATI:VE AUDIO PLAN THE MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT GREAT TIME. CALL 277-6046 MORNINGS 
CRUISE SHIP JOBS! Great oncome 
potential, all occupations. For information 
call: 602-837-3401 Ext. 866 
Baggage to New York 
Take your bikes, rugs, bags, & boxes w~h 
you when you go -watch for info in the 
mail. 
NY METRO CLUB 
Need rides to your storage location? 
Have station wagon. Price -roughly $5 
per trip. Call6827 for appointment. 
Professional typong. $1 per page. Free 
pick up and delivery. 282-1805. 
\ LOST/FOUND \ 
Gold key ring w~h m~ials "JFG" and two room keys in parking lot east of Grace or in or around Grace. Please call John Gib­bon al283-8214. 
Lost: Gold Seiko Men's watch w~h black band (in~ials RON). Please call Ray at 8592. Reward! 
LOST: A blue !older/envelope with velcro fastener either in LaFortune or library. Call Tariq at 277-0849 for reward. 
LOST: A quilt Monday night at the beach on Lake Michigan if found please call 
1683. 
FOUND ON SOUTH QUAD; Casio five­function watch. Has initials on the back. Blue, w~h silver watchband. Call Marty at 1022. 
FOUND: TRINITY HIGH SCHOOL Class Ring-1982. ln~ials CJJ inside. Found on sink in bathroom of Nieuwland Science HaH Wednesday. April 20. Call Chris #3184 before it is pawned. 
ONE MORE TRY!! Were you at St Ed's formal before Easter? Did you walk out in the wrong shoes? I have your navy Red Cross shoes, but I prefer my own navy Upstage shoes ... please trade back!! Call Liz at 68251 cannot wear yours!!! call Liz a 6825 
LOST IN MUD PITS: Polo keychain w~h #234 on them. REWARD!!! Please call 3288. 
LOST/STOLEN -FROM CHANCE TO DANCE AT STEPAN CENTER, Friday night. 4/22/83 bright turquoise jacket containing all my keys. Please return at least the keys · they are all very impor­tant. Call 284-4307. No questions asked. You can even keep the jacket. 
LOST: 1 Members Only style jacket with no brand nar!'e -size 40R -color tan FOUND: 1 Members Only style jacket ­tan in color -size 13/14 
LOST: A brown cowboy hat in LaFortune lobby on April 11. If found please call Steve at 283-8281. 
LOST: Blue nylon wallet. Sometime Friday near Holy Cross. Reward. Call Paul3163. 
LOST: one pair of whole. Pony basketball shoes between Zahm and t St. Ed's. on Sunday, April 23 aboul 4:00. Please call Brad if found, 8920. My feet are cold. 
FOUND in North Quad area. a man's ring. Call Jeff or TomS. at 1764. 
LOST Gray NO sweatshirt with sleeves cut off. At the Beaux Arts Ball. Call Rick 233-6068 
LOST: A Beige "Members Only" waist­length jacket taken by mistake at South Dining Hall. I have yours and it's too big! Please call Mary Ellen at #7974. 
LOST: "St. Timothy" medal and chain in the gym at lhe Rock last Sat. night. Was a gift from Grandma so please return. No questions. Reward. Call Tim aS%8181 
Lost or "Borrowed"-My light brown Jox running shoes from outside Flanner "A" Section door (nearest P.W.) 4/25. Anyone who'd take a ripped up muddy and wet pair of shoes needs lhem more than me. You're welco to keep them. just return the keys that were in them to Mike at 1068. 
FOR RENT 
································································ 
4Rent 4 Bedroom HouS.. $250 mo. all utilities included June or Sept. Call 319­322-8735 Patty 
Summer School? Apts. for Rent near N.D. Utilities Pd. Less Gas ph.2720261 
Facuny or Grad Students. 4 Bedroom House, fully furnished wrth washer/dryer. Nice! $400/month. 288-3109. 
5-BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL. $400. 233-8779. 
Clean furnished for 3-4 students, 931 N. Notre Dame. After 6 p.m. 232-0535. 
For Summer storage 
call 283-3204 
close to campus-secure-plenty of space 
---share ~with a fiend and save--­
WANTED 

-. .
..................................; .............................. 
Anyone coming back on June 19th or 19th from the Washington D.C. area? Want to wok out a ride? Call Kathleen at 2946. 
FEMALE NEEDS ROOMMATE FOR SUMMER SUBLET IN CHICAGO. LIN­COLN PRK APT GREAT VIEW OF LAKE. CALL4418 
Student to be involved w~h 3M Company 
telemarketing research program. 
Designed by one of the top telemarketing 
companies in the U.S. Local dealer. one 
of lhree sites in country. Need 9 month-1 
year commftment to see research 
through. Future placement possible in 
sales. 15 to 20 hours per week -will ad­
just to your schedule. 
Call Bruce or Susan Beckman 
IMAGE CONCEPTS, INC. 
256-1823 

CAROLINA...CAROLINA ..CAROLINA Need Rider. Leaving Tue. May 10 Call Jeff at3126. 
82 GRAD needs female roommate in Evanston IL. Call Rani (312) 864·6494 
To the Europe-bound Doll, Being that this is the last day to PERSONAL-ize, And only a few days remain, before we say our (temporary) goodbyes I would like to take this oppor­tunity to thank you lor the 5 most wonder­ful months of my life. I hope that I have brought at least one-third of that happi­ness into your semester. that you have given me, for my entire existance. Also that ~ looks like I got the last word (personal) in, our little 'classified' quabble. THANKS.FOR ALL THAT YOU HAVE FORME. 
LOVE Y A. lhe Dufus 

Need Ride to NYIU Leaving anytime after graduation, say 5/15 or 5/16, to NYC-Westchester. Usual. Frank-3164 
Need ride to Boston. Can leave night of May 7. Will ~hare usual. Call Tom x6802 
I'm looking for someone intr;rested in traveling around Europe for awhile in June and July. Eurail Pass, hoslels, back­packs, etc. Call Jeff 1764 
GOING TO COLUMBUS, OHIO ON MAY 9th? Don't have too much stuff? Interested in sharing cost of rent-a-car? If so. call Dan x1501 
I Need a ride to BAL­TIMORE/WASHINGTON area on May 10 or 11. Will share usual. Jim -277­0992 
I LOVE NJ and needtogethome. Leaving 5/10 or after. Split usual. Mark at 1725 
RIDER WANTED TO CENTRAL NJ. Leave Tue 5/3. Call Jack277·1185 
Need ride to Boston on May 10. Anna 1316 
Hey Mack -Can you spare a gradua· lion licket? It you have 1 extra ticket for sale. please call Tricia 2959 
RIDE: Carpool wanted lo Portland, Ore. Call Brian #8164 
Need ride to Minn., St. Paul area 5-10 or later. Will pay. Call Sheila 284-4186. 
Watters, waitresses, cooks. Experience helpful but not necessary. May throu August. Waiters and waitresses must be 
21. Hudson's dept. store 277-7100 Ext. 2520, 9-11 a.m. for appt. 
FOR SALE 
USED, OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS BOUGHT. SOLD, SEARCHED. ERASMUS BOOKS. 1027 E. WAYNE. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY· JEFFERSON INTERSECTION. 
FOR SALE BY OWNER. Near Notre Dame. 2-bedroom brick house, fenced yard. Many extras. $37,000. Days: 232­2031, ask for Sylvia. Other Nmes: 288· 6134 or 239-7771. 
WINDSURFER FOR SALE. USED ONE YEAR. $400 CALL MARK-881 0 
1210 GARLAND pay $222.87 when you assume this 9.5b FHA mortgage. Century 21 Carmien Realty (219) 848-4477 
REFRIGERATOR -Like New Call MJ at 7950 
Carpet, Gold, 8x12, 1 yr old. Call Tim at 8631. 
4 sale Onkyo 70w lnt Amp Great Shape #3155 
Dorm Room Refrigerator. Bargain Price. Call6729 
Giant inventory-reduction sale 
ND Sportswear and Souvenirs 
ICE RINK-PRO SHOP-GATE 3-ACC 
May 2-8-10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
For Sale: 1 way air ticket So. Bend to San Jose, CA. $100. 259-6704 evening 
CAR FOR SALE Honda -good condition. Call 277-8546 after5p.m. 
TICKETS 
I way incredibly desperately need tickels lor Graduation. Plea~e call Chris 288· 8004. 
HELP NEED GRAD TICKETS CALL MIKE1102 
Please Help! Need One LOWER ARENA TICKET for GRADUATION EXERCISES ·-Willlrade one upper arena licket or will buy. Please call Debbie at 234-7961 Thanks! 
I desperately need five TICKETS for GRADUATION EXERCISES. Please call Phil at 277-1759. Thanks. 
I DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE CAR­DINAL BERNADIN !!1... and my best friend is graduating. I will pay BIG BUCKS for a TICKET TO GRADUATION... Call Gus at 283-1215 after 6 pm before graduation 1111 
COMPUTER PROGRAMMERS WILL 
FIX YOUR GRADES OR PAY$$$ FOR 
GRADUATION TIX 
CALL ART OR KARL 1682 
PERSONALS 
Cathy, I love you. Ken 
1982 ND GRAD seeks financial assis­tance for Dental School (loans or any other aid) excellent tax break. 
(312) 595-0215 
59 Hamolton St. 
Bensenville, Ill 60101 
To our scorekeepers, Bookstore wouldn't be able lo run without your help. Thanks fo helping to make the World's Largesl Basketball Tournament a success. To the seniors, for the future. To those returning next year. It's up to you to continue the tradilion. -TheTournament Staff. 
TO THE ENTIRE PRODUCTION STAFF: It's been a great year working with you all. you've all improved so muchlll I look lor­ward to new inovations in the fall. 
Love your boss da Rabbit 
Students interested in working on the transfer orientation committee for the Fall of '83 please call Mike Hennessey at #1152. 
Dear Barb, The summer will be too long without you but wait until next year! I love you! Mike 
Come one-come all CHORALE Concert 
Fnday, April29 9 p.m. Sacred Heart Church Hear favorites such as "Le Chant des Oyseaux" and "Cantata Domino 
Want to try to show lhat Science and Technology can be interestong? OK. I said try. It you do, call Science & Technology Editor Tom Mowle at The Observer (239­7471) and have your chance to be published. 
WORKING IN CHICAGO THIS SUM­
MER? Roommate needed June-August. Apart­ment in Lincoln Park arAa, 6 miles from Loop. Call Tom at x8728. 
Carnations Carnations Send a flower for a dollar Send it to a senior to wish Good Luck Send it to a friend in Appreciation Send it loa prof for mercy on the finals Selling this Salurday and Sunday delivered on StU<t' Days 
Boston Club Eleclions Sunday May 1 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Little Theatre. All interested in running must be there. All welcome to run and vote. 
Boslon Baggage Truck Will load May 8. Details in newslelter or come to eleclions. 
JUNIORS -you MUST relurn your Sr. Portrait proofs on the days below: A-J May2 K-0May3 P-ZMay4 from 9:30-1:00 and 2:00-5:00 each day. 2C LaFortu $5 Fee per proof if not returned! 
BOSTON CLUB ELECTIONS Sun. 7 p.m. LaFortune. All MASS residents welcome 
Connecticut and Rhode Island Baggage Truck: Cont8ct Bill at 1694 or Llaaat7884. 
BOSTON CLUB ELECTIONS SUNDAY 
JimD­1thought you looked mighty fine in a bball uniform but after seeing you in thattoga... 
Jim & Josep,h: Have a greal summer.guysl See you next fall-or will you be around for Summer School? 
Kat& Willett 
ANNAMARIE: Here's to beong roommates next year ­boy. are we going to have fun!!! I'm sure the summer will be fantastic too. 
SUZANNE 
Joe, Craig & Tim, 
Thanks a lot for all the abuse about Northern IN & C.P. Don'tworry-llorgive you. Hope you all had a great summer. 
Janet 
APEX Reforming! Need singer & Drummer. Senous lnq. Only 
Call Peter-#8594 
SOMEONE BETTER WORK ON THEIR CHARLIE'S ANGEL MOVES FOR NEXT YEAR'S PROS'S! REMEMBER THEM CORRECTLY THOUGHI 
To3N Regina 
Thanks so much you guys for every­thing, lor putting up w~h me, for all your help, encouragement and smiles, for being a greal audience, and especially for beong the best friends I could have! 
I love ya'all, Helen 
All nght Gleason lhis is yur last personal (this year anyway). Have a great sum­mer!URAQT 
Love always. JJB 
JENNY, JENNY, Who will! turn to next year? GL! ME 
P.S. Be sure to sw1m p1er to pier m Rome!? 
JPB 
Thanks-you've made SMC bearable! AML KAW 
.........~ ............ 

To the barbershop quartet plus some ot Keenan. Thanks for making my birthday start out on a good note. 
Love. MM 

Kellie, Paula. Mary Frances, Anne, Karen & Kati. Thanks for making my firsl birthday at SMC the best ever. 
love, 
Maureen 

SHANNON MAC -x1493 Happy 19th LoveKJ 
P.S. We'll get it right soon enough! 
To the '83-'84 NO Cheerleaders. Thanks! I'm so psyched for Saturday. 
This squad is # 11 Love, Helen 
Peg-
Hey, hanx D-01-NG? D-01-NG? 
DearT Roses are Red Violets are Blue HAPPYB-Day and I LOVE YOU 
ROMEO 

P.S. Yes it's 22 
Mare, Pare, Fare, Sara Happy 20th 8-day Love Your Bro 
Tom Cushing Thanks for all your help. Another 81 Have a great summer. Judy 
........................................................ 

Dave, 
Thanks for a great year. I want you to know how much I truly care about you. I'll ' keep trying to work toward my 50 percent. 
I'm really going to miss you lhis summer! Love, Kiddo 
My Tattered Teddy bear. 
I'm gonna miss you this summer wish we could spend il together. I'll be back for sure next year cause I'm in love with you and am looking forward to waking you up at 4 in the morning. 
Love your favorite finger painler 

TOM PACE have a great summer! It's Basoc-it's like Breathinl Love from the "7" 
ATTENTION ALL WOMEN OF ND-SMC!! 
Today is the 22nd birthday of that world-famous Bookstore stud John "Hoosier-Award" Rudser. He is accepting birthday wishes and kisses at 201 Dillon or call him at 1652! 
Monroe -Hey Kiddo, lhis IS ~. your own personal! Thanks for trying last Thursday, bUll didn't make it e~herl Grrrrl Love, Me. 
Barb, 
Thanks. the beginning, pulling me thru, talking, tubing, tennos, do you give yet?. typing. 8·1 0-17 pages, formal, dinners. mass, walking at 5:30 a.m.• and every­thing else, lhanks. 
Love, Sean 
DEAN'S RUN DEAN'S RUN DEAN'S RUN 

Come out early on Blue· Gold Day (April 
30) to run twice around the lakes w~h Col­lege of Science Deans Castellino and Winicur._.$3 registration tee. T -shirts for all. Meet near Carroll Hall al 9:30 a.m. Have some fun with a run in the sun I 
DEAN'S RUN DEAN'S RUN DEAN'S RUN 
AN TOSTAL STAFF DINNER 

$5 per person all you can eat & drink at Come and Done. Contact Jay Reidy 239· 7668 or Mike Perez 283-3674 or Mar­garet. the student governmenl secretary. 
P.T.: Happy 21st! I love you, Lyndy. 
ATTENTION SENIOR WOMEN: Sunday. May 1, Wine & Cheese receptoon in Lewis courtyard from 4-5:30 p.m. --Be there!!! 
DC, MD, VA? PLEASE! I need a rode anytime after May 
4. It you can take me anywhere near DC, please call me. I only have one suotcase. Staph 283· 7831 
SENIORS-HAPPY HOUR at Toppecanoe. 4-7. $1 includes free hos d'oerves, dnnk specials. Be there!!! 
P.S. Read those Sr. Month booklets! 16 more days left to party! 
Other events coming up: Tomorrow: Senio·Aiumni T ailgater Picnoc for Blue-Gold Game Mon. May 2: Blow oft last class day and go to the Dunes bowling ladies-n-mens night out drive~ in dnnk-n-divot 
. . and lots morel!! Your last chance! 
Mar. Mo & Sar: I know it's not much of a consolation. butllove you guys! The Nanny 
AT THE NAZZ TONITE 

AT 10:30 MARK LUCHINI AND SPECIAL 
GUEST DAN BRAUWEILER 
DON'T MISS IT 

Don't distress yourseK. Virgie! Tomor­row's your Birthday, so Rise Above nand Eat Yo Honey! I Love you, Sister! Joanie 
Reflection for the day: 
I learned two things by trying out for the Dancin' Irish. 1) I lack something ~takes to make the team! 2) I have the greatest friends in the world! Thanks for the lucky socks. the rose, the lucky(?) shirt, all the notes on my board -but most of all, thanks for beong lhere! 
Love ya 
-D 

Grotto: Thanks for all the good "notous" times -we had lots of them! I couldn't have found a greater group of friends -I love you all! M.C. 
Tim, Tom, Kev. Mary Fan. Jim: Have a great year abroad-take care, write. and behave (at least sornetomes). I'll miss you very much! Love. M.C. 
KEN, TESSIE, GIG!, ELIZABETH, and 
TOMMY: 
May the Lord help you to finish 
And may He see you through 
And may the luck of the Irish 
Forever be with you 
Good Luck! 
We'll miss you! 
The Pinoys 

P.S. Pakaba~ Kayo! 
MORE OF COMMANDER SALAMAN­
DER'S LIFESAVING TIPS FOR WILEY 
VILLAGE IDIOTS (That means you Fish. 
B.L., Idiot, Matt, Jerkface, Mike, Yukon, 
etc ..): 
Today's lesson-How to survive an at­

tack of de dreaded CATFISH. 
1.) Wipe that feckless grin oft your face! 

(You're in trouble now. You have as good 
a chance as Diamond Smiles.) 
2.) Control those uncontrollable goops 

or everyone will know you're the epi-to­
me of feck-h-ci-ty. 
3.) Assume the fetal and say your 

prayers to Little Alex. you droogies, cuz 
yall are headed for Catfish heaven. 
4.) Get buried in your yellow jumpsuit. 

You never had a chance cuz de Catfish is 
the meanest B.L. in this droog·s ocean. 
Two fingers to you. May you rest in 

"Peace." 
There are so many I wish to recognize 

and thank before I get out of this place, so 
w~hout any further ado: 
Thanks to Latty for showing me the 

ropes, to Beth for giving me the chance to 
write, and to Pudge for everything else 
that led to my success. 
Thanks to my staff, especially Rico, 

Sully, Riehle, Will, J.P., Mary, Louie, 
Steva, and Jeff, for their help and sup­
port. 
Thanks to Digger for an enjoyable 

season. a lot of laughs, and for the beers 
in Philadelphia. And thanks to John Pax· 
110n for showing us all what a lrue all­
American is all about. 
Thanks 10 MaryD., Mary Eltan and Pat 

and the terrific gorls from the women's 
basketball team for an exciting season. 
for the fun times on Phoenix and L.A., and 
for a great banquet. The best is yet to 
come. 
Thanks to Shirley and all the other 

beauliful women of The Observer who 
helped make four years at this rag a lot 
easier to take. 
Thanks to everyone else -family, friends, roommates, supporters -who helped me through some Iough times. 
And for those who disagreed with me at times this year, you're welcome to your own oponions. No hard feelings. 
Thanks for everythong: it's been a 

pleasure. 
Chris 
SODOM AND GOMORRAH Outdoor Party TonightI 140fl South Bend Avenue 

The men of SOdom and Gomorrah wish to apologize lor the snow at their last party, and will make H up to their loyal patrons wHh a massive baah tonight. Corne to NO's No. 1 party spot lor a great time. 
And II H rains (or snows), don't bother showing up. This one's atrlc11y outdoors. 
Elkhart -just another summer haven ... 
But release me from my bands, WHh the help of your goOd hands Gentle breath of yours my sails Must 1111, or alae my project falls, Which was to please ..• 
The Observer Friday, April29, 1983-page 13 
Noonan, Novatny 
'Crazy' doubles teaiD gets along fine 
By MARK B. JOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
"They live an exciting life," says Coach Tom Fallon of his No. I doubles team comprised ofSt. Louis products junior Tim Noonan and sophomore John Novatny. "I guess the secret is to keep them high, but under control." 
According to Noonan, "We Qohn and I) are not exactly the quietest team in the world, but we try to keep it to a minimum." Confirming Noonan's opinion is Novatny, "We are both crazy and are probably the two wildest guys on the team." 
With wildness as a consideration, Noonan and Novatny are probably the two most compatible Notre Dame doubles players, and, al­though their IS-I2 season record is not too impressive, these two men certainly make up for it. 
Their individual games are about as wild as their personalities, as they both like "to hit the ball" rather than play a finesse game. 
"When they are working well to­gether, they are awfully tough, but then they get a day where they try to knock the cover offthe ball, and they run into problems," stated Fallon, a firm believer in a finesse game. 
Defending their style of play, Noonan· commented, "It boils down to enjoyment as it is a lot more fun to hit the ball. If you can win and beat the ball, why not do it. I think that we would both rather hit the ball hard, and in the big matches that we have won, we were hitting the ball hard and hitting it well." 
In addition to doubles, Noonan holds a 22-6 record at No. 6 singles while Novatny stands at 23-9 at No. 
4. Although they are more success­ful at singles, both men enjoy doubles because it is really more ofa team sport. 
"I have always done better in doubles because I have taken it more seriously," stated Novatny. "I get more fired up for doubles since I enjoy it more. 
With Novatny's feared slice serve and his southpaw play combined with Noonan's strong forehand and net game, the pair is a natural com­bination. 
"It was pretty obvious that if 
• • . Royal 
continuedfrom page 20 
Times-Picayune. 
Overall, Phelps is quite pleased with his recruiting crop, despite the loss ofPopson. 
In another new twist, the Irish will not have a team captain next season. 
"We may have a lot of sergeants, or captains for individual games," said Phelps. "But no one's earned the right to be team captain. It's that simple." 
Although the final I983-84 schedule has not yet been finalized, The Observer has learned of several games that have been agreed upon. 
The Irish will visit the Pacific 
Northwest for the first time to take 
on Washington (in the Seattle 
Kingdome) and Oregon. Other road 
games include Indiana, Dayton, 
South Carolina, LaSalle (in the 
Philadelphia Palestra), Rutgers (in 
the NewJersey Meadowlands), Man­
hattan (in Madison Square Garden), 
and Holy Cross (in the brand new 
arena in Worcester, Mass.). 
The home schedule includes the 
usual matchups with DePaul, Mar­
quette, and UCLA, while N.C. State 
has been dropped from the schedule 
after six years. In addition, Phelps 
hinted that he is trying to schedule a 
top ten team -although he would 
not say which one -for a date at the 
ACC next season. 
Noonan and Novatny could blend together personality wise, they would make a formidable doubles team," said Fallon. With their combined talent and competive­ness, Noonan and Novatny have caught quite a few No. I teams by surprise as few expect a team ofNo. 4 and No. 6 to be much ofchallenge, and, after working out most of their minor problems this year, they look to be "a team to be reckoned with" next year according to Fallon. "The competition has vastly improved their game this year, and the only direction they can go is up." 
According to Noonan, "We are both pretty competitive as far as doubles go, and we do not like to 
...
. 
lose." 
With this competitiveness, the pair gets intense in every aspect of the game, and occasionally overly so, but as they play the same type of game and work well together, they compliment each other and are truly a team. "When we win, we win as a team," explained Novatny. 
1\lthough these individuals are a couple of the "more radical" Notre Dame students and are actually quite different from each other, to­gether on a tennis court these unique players become one, and whether playing individually or as a team, Tim Noonan and John Novatny are t_ruly a couple of im­pressive people. 

Lacrosse Slate 
Yale 17, Notre Dame 5 Duke 13, Notre Dame 5 Notre Dame 15, Kenyon 5 Notre Dame 15, Lake Forest 7 
C.W. Post 15, Notre Dame 6 Ohio State 11, Notre Dame 10, OT Notre Dame 28, Mount Union 4 Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 6 Ohio Wesleyan 14, Notre Dame 12 Notre Dame 18, Wittenberg 1 Wooster 22, Notre Dame 16 Denison 11 , Notre Dame 1 0 
April 30 -Oberlin at Notre Dame, Alumni Field May 3-Notre Dame at Ashland 
.. 
.
.
.
. 



The Observer Sports Extra -Hope Springs Eternal 
Friday, April29, 1983-page 14 
A tough road to hoe 
The 'Notre Dame game' tops 11 slates, but for Irish, four games to decide fate 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
and LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame game. 
For defending national champion Penn State as well as a 
Michigan State team coming off a miserable 2·-9 season, it's the 
biggest game ofthe year. 
"Oh, you must mean1 Notre Dame weekend ... we're al­ready booked up for it," is the line yq_u're greeted with by reservation desks from Columbia, S.C. to Boulder, Colo., ifyou decide to call too late for reservations for hotels -like mid­April. 
The team that will be the object ofall this attention will not be facing the gauntlet that was last season's run. However, the 1983 slate is no cupcake. 
The traditionally talent-laden squads from USC and Pitts­burgh will provide the Irish with two "power" games in three weeks at the Stadium here. 
And looming over the horizon after those battles on home turfwill beJoe Paterno's always-powerful Nittany Lions. 
The Lions, Trojans, and Panthers all lose a lot ofsenior talent from last year, but are sure to have more than adequate replacements. 
But it is the teams like Michigan State, Purdue, and and South Carolina -that seek to bounce back from disappoint­ing seasons -ofwhich the Irish must remain especially wary. They may not be Top Ten material, but they have outstanding personnel"(not unlike Arizona and Air Force last year). 
Here is a look at the 1983 schedule: 
PURDUE at West Lafayette -Ignore the Boilermakers' 1982 record, Purdue at West Lafayette is a rugged opening test. Seven of the last 12 times the schools have met at Ross­Ade Stadium, the Boilermakers have won. This includes their last two meetings down there. Quarterback Scott Campbell may be the best in the nation at his position in 1983. He'll be to-;sing most ofhis passes to another all-America candidate­tight end Cliff Benson, who grabbed eight passes for 92 yards in 1982 at ND Stadium. "Purdue is always a difficult game for Notre Dame," says Irish head coach Gerry Faust. "And the presence of Campbell makes their passing game difficult to stup, as we've seen in the past two years." 
The explosive Boilers are vulnerable on defense, after 
having surrendered over 29 points per game last year. 
In Faust's two years, Notre Dame has had tougher-than· 
expected games with Purdue. This year, however, the Irish 
v-ill not have to face Purdue after a battle with Michigan. 
MICHIGAN STATE at Notre Dame-:-"Muddy" Waters may have been too much ofa grandpop to the Spartans the last few ynrs. Enter fiery George Perles, former Pittsburgh Steeler as­Sistant head coach and defensive coordinator for the past 13 years who has already made the spring workouts at State the ~~-lrdest and most intense in quite a while. In addition, Perles ·Jutrecruited Wolverine boss Bo Schembechler all over the state. 
'Notre Dame and Michigan are the games I'm paid to win," 
,_vs Perles. "I don't intend to see us lay d town and die just 
because we see blue and gold." 
:\.11-America hopeful Carl Banks heads a tough and hard­
hitting Spartan defense that has held Notre Dame to zero 
~:c;1chdowns in the last seven quarters that they have played. 
':>plit end Daryl Turner is another AU-American prospect, but 
h •. 
needs a quarterback to get him the ball. If tailback Aaron 
R·•berts, one of the most sought-after backs in America two 
; .1rs ago, can live up to his potential, the Spartans may give 
the Irish another battle. 
oUAMI at Miami -The first power game on the slate has iy ~n moved from Nov. 26, to the night ofSept. 24 in order to .·omodate CBS. Howard Schellenberger has made the Hur­' ane football program one ofthe better ones in the nation in t three years. For Miami, the Notre Dame game has been a 
• :-. tter of respect. A lot of respect was gained via the 3 7-15 unding administered to the Irish two years ago at Miami. 'Not beating Notre Dame last year at South Bend was a ~sed opportunity," says Schnellenberger. "We have, I think, etter team than them and should be favored in this game." fhe match with the Hurricanes will be Notre Dame's first 
TSN: Irish No. 1 
Notre Dame will be rated No. 1 in The Sporting News' .:mual college football supplement, to be published in 
•ugust, The Observer learned yesterday. The Irish, 6-4-1 last season, are being ranked at the top 
ecause of the fact that their last three recruiting classes >ave been ranked the nation's best. Also, the Irish return an tbundance oftalent from last year at the skill positions. 
"· Notre Dame is a young team with experience," said 
•)hn Hadley of the. St. Louis-based publication. "The one iling you cannot argue is that (Gerry) Faust's recruiting !asses the past three years have been the nation's best. end they have an opportunity to go 10-1 against that ,;:hedule." 
The Irish must beat teams like USC, Penn State and Pitts­JUrgh, all ranked in TSN's Top 20, to attain that record. 
step back toward national contention. It is one of the key games in the nation next year, but its complexion changes as a result ofthe date change. 
"We have to play 11 straight weeks, but I don't really tike open dates that much," says Faust. "But the key is how their open date effects them." Miami has an extra week to prepare for the game. 
Defensive end Joe Kohlbrand, middle guard Tony Fitzpatrick and linebacker Jay Brophy head a first-rate defensive unit that returns eight starters from last year. Power­house fullback Speedy Neal and tailback Keith Griffin (whom his older brother of Heisman fame, Archie, once called the best tailback in the family) form an outstanding backfield duo on offense. 
COLORADO at Boulder -A once-proud football power­house which was ranked third nationally in 1972 and went to the Orange Bowl after the 1976 season has become a Keystone Kops operation the last several years. However, Chuck Fairbanks went back to the pros (the Keystone Kops United States Football League), and new Head Coach Bill Mal­lory hopes to bring the program to its past respectability again. Nothing would help more than a win over a name in­stitution like Notre Dame. 
"We have a challenge on our hands," says Mallory. "But we don't plan on giving up in any game this fall." 
The Buffs, while not near ofanybody's Top 20 lists this fall, are looking to mousetrap Notre Dame this yeac. And it's not impossible -just ask Coach Rich Brooks and the Oregon Ducks. 
SOUTH CAROLINA at Columbia-New Head Coach Joe 
Morrison, who guided New Mexico to a l 0-1 record last year, 
may become one worn-out man by the end ofthe year. Their 
match with Notre Dame is sandwiched between such teams as 
North Carolina, Georgia, Southern Cal, LSU, Florida State, and 
Clemson on the Gamecock schedule. Fifteen starters return 
from last year's disappointing 4-7 team. 

Two factors may be working against the Irish in this game. ------------------------­

One is a quick veer offense that Notre Dame has at times had difficulties with in the past. The second is the usual difficultif ~ that Notre Dame teams have had when it journeys under ihe Mason-Dixon line -especially against Southern teams with losing records such as Mississippi in 1977 ( tlle 'National Championship year), and Georgia Tech in 1976 and 1980. 
ARMY at East Rutherford -Five road games in six weeks can take its toll on on a team. Hopefully it won't be against the Cadets in the New Jersey Meadowlands. The thing especially to guard against in this game is looking ahead to finally ex­periencing a home stand in the next week -especially when the home stand begins with Southern Cal. 
The Irish can be thankful that this game is not at Michie Stadium in West Point, but it is one ofthose games where the Irish may be spent -just when the opponent is ready to add a feather to its cap. 
USC at Notre Dame -The second key to the national championship. After five years of frustration, this may finally be the year the Irish can upend the Trojan machine. Notre Dame has a score to settle after the Trojans settled for a score that wasn't last year in the final minute. Michael Harper, who scored the "Phanthom Touchdown" returns along with out­standing quarterback Sean Salisbury and the usual load ofgar­gantuan lineman present at this institution. But they lose a wealth of talent, including All-Americans George Achica, Bruce Matthews, t Dan Mosebar, and Joey Browner. Their greatest loss may have been Head Coach John Robinson who will guide the Los Angeles Rams. Ted Tollner, the offensive coordinator at USC for only one year, takes over. With the game at home, the chance to defeat the Trojans may be better than even. 
"We had chances the last two years against USC, and missed them," said Faust. "We've had some bad luck, and ifthose sort ofthings even out, we could be in shape." 
The Trojans got in position to beat Notre Dame last year by airing it out -and Tollner will install the same sort of high­octane attack that he used as offensive headman at Brigham Young (tutoring stars like Marc Wilson and Jim McMahon). Salisbury has the chance to become a superstar and Tollner may turn the trick for him. 
NAVY at Notre Dame -Notre Dame has won 20 straight over the Midshipmen. There is usually nothing fancy about these games as Notre Dame is usually just too physically imposing. The Irish could experience a letdown, though, after the emotional USC game and could also be caught looking ahead to Pitt and Penn State in the ensuing weeks. Reminds one ofthe way Air Force was sandwiched between Pittsburgh, Penn State, and USC last year. 
Coach Gary Tranquill's squad was able to put points on the board for the first time in a long time in last season's game at the Meadowlands, and even without Marco Pagnanelli, hope to be able to jolt ND at the Stadium. 
PITISBURGH at Notre Dame -The Panthers lose 14 senior starters from last year, including quarterback Dan Marino, split-end Julius Dawkins, and offensive tackle Jimbo Covert on offense, and middle guard J.C. Pelusi and tackle Dave Puzzuoli on defense. These seniors were responsible for a 42-6 record the past four years at Pitt. Second-year Head Coach Foge Fazio will still have great talent, though. The greatest of all is junior offensive tackle Bill Fralic a first team Associated Press All-America selection last year, and the suc­candidates returning incude defensive tackle Bill Maas, safety Tom Flynn, and wide receiVer Tony Collins. 

"Notre Dame caught us asleep at our place last season," said Fazio. "We hope to do the same this fall. We'll be ready, that's for sure." 
This game, the third key, will be the beginning of a two­
week gauntlet that leads to what could be the game of the 
year: 
PENN STATE at University Park -The defending national champions, like USC and Pitt, lose many All-Americans includ­ing quarterback Todd Blackledge, running back Curt Warner, and split end Kenny Jackson on offense, and linebacker Walker Lee Ashley on defense. Besides last year's USC game, the two most frustrating losses in the Faust era have been against the Nittany Lions. 
Two years ago the Irish were up 21-17 with six minutes left and had the ball deep in State territory. But a dropped pass in the endzone and a turnover by Notre Dame led to an 89-yard Penn State drive to win the game in the fmal minutes. Last year a Blair Kiel-less Irish valiantly had hung on to a 14-13 lead in the fourth quarter, but a 59-yard Blackledge to Warner pass salted it away for the Irish. There is no question that the Irish can play with this team. A key to this game will be stoppingJon Williams, who gained 192 yards against Notre Dame two years ago. 
"We have a great respect for Notre Dame," says Joe Paterno. 
"They've given us two tough games and we were fortunate to 
win. There's no question in my mind that they'll be back near 
the top ofthe nation's best this year." 
So will Penn State. 
AIR FORCE at Notre Dame -From now on, whenever a major college coaching position opens up, look for Ken Hat­field's name to be somewhere near the top of the list. Hatfield has done a brilliant job of rebuilding the Falcon program to respectability with an explosive offense that led them to nine wins last year and a triumph over Vanderbilt in the Hall of Fame Bowl. 
The 30-17 shellacking they administered to the Irish last yearwas one ofthe great shockers in college football last year. The defense is expected to be much improved next year as nine of the 11 starters return with invaluable experience un­der their belts. The story here, though, is the spectacular wishbone offense which returns the entire backfield. Quarter­back Marty Louthan heads the pack that includes halfbacks 
Jody Simljllons and Derek Foster, and fullback John Kershner. The Irish will have to do a very good job in beating the of­fensive line ofAir Force (which loses four ofits five starters) in order to avoid another very possible upset. 
• 
At any rate, it's not the minefield that the last two schedules 
have been, but it's tough in its own way. While five ofthe first 
six opponents are coming off losing seasons, all are gunning 
for the Irish. 
But, it'll all come down to Miami, USC, Pitt and the Novem­
ber showdown with the defending national champs. Those 
cessor to Nebraska's Dave Rimington for the title of top of­four games will determine whether the third time will be the fensive lineman in America next year. Other all-America charm -or a curse -for Gerry Faust. 

The Observer Sports Extra -Hope Springs Eternal 
Friday, April29, 1983-page 15 
Just a couple of questions 
Spring practice over, Faust and Irish left with mostly pleasant problems 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports Writer 
An old baseball adage holds that "hope springs eternal in April." Much the same can be said about college football. 
Although the first buds on the campus trees have not yet blossomed, tomorrow is April 30, the date of the 53rd annual Blue-Gold game. For the past five weeks Gerry Faust and his coaching staff have labored through this extraordinarily damp and inclement spring so that they could get an early look at the 1983 Notre Dame football team. Tomorrow the public and the students get a chance to see for themselves what a portion ofthe Irish will look like next fall. 
The contest will be the third for Gerry Faust since leaving Moeller High School to come to Notre Dame. In 1981, a crowd ofover 35,000 people attended the scrimmage to wit­ness Faust's semi-debut on the Notre Dame Stadium sidelines. 
At the time, fans were too caught up in "Faust Fever" to pay much attention to the big question marks that then sur­rounded the coach and his team. Eight months later, the ques­tions were answered, and the Irish were five in the win column and six in the loss. 
A year later, the media outside ofSouth Bend got hold ofthe game and decided to televise it. ESPN brought its cameras to campus and televised the game. For the first time a student who missed the game to study for finals got a chance to take all his exams, pack his belongings, travel home and flick on the television and watch the game. 
But once again the following fall the Irish suffered through a mediocre season, this time they went 6-4-1. 
Now it is spring once more and optimism abounds at ND, especially in the offices ofthe coaching staff. Betteryet, for the first time in three years that optimism is warrented. Ifspring 1983 has done nothing more, hopefully it has shown that the Irish are loaded with talent and deep at many positions. 
"This is the best spring we have had so far," comments Faust. "There's been a tremendous amount of intensity and enthusiam, and the there's been really hard hitting. We've ac­heived the goals we set out to accomplish." 
Although some question marks still remain, most of the answers have been provided by the players these past five weeks. The following is a brief look by position at who's a definite starter next fall, who's a maybe, and who's a backup; and also it is a clue as to what areas the coaches will be paying special attention to tomorrow. 
Blue· Gol·d depth chart . .. 
22 Ray Carter 
20 Allen Ponkett 
TB 

83 Mike Favorite 35 Mark Brooks
1 Mike Haywood 32 Chris Smith
FL  FB  
47 Blair Kiel  
80 Milt Jackson 24 Joe Howard SE  74  Mike ShinQT  69 Mike Walsh er 53 Tom DoergeQG  QB r 83 Mike Kelly C  

w~ " ~ cr E 
36 Ron Weissenhofer 81 Jay Underwood 89 Tony Leonard 97 Steve Keane 86 Steve Willertz 31 Kevin Jennings 98 Tom Roggeman 96 Wally Kleine 68 Steve White 46 Paul Bu';Per 57 John Wackowskl 18 Jo/'Tn Cooney MLB SLB 87 Joe Bars 44 Bobby Duhart 58 Mike Lane 21 Greg Fick 

WCB FS ss SCB 11 Dave O'Haren 41 David McGuffey 25 Dan Cesaro 48 John Mosley 7 John Tyler 23 lan de Hueck 
40 Pat Ballage 30 Stacey Toran 27 Joe Johnson 9 Chris Brown 34 Daane Splelmaker I SCB SS FS WCB I
43 Rick DIBernardo 47Tom Murphy 37 Rick Naylor 58 Tony Furjanic 


I 
SLB MLB 
I 

93 Shawn Heflren 94 Jerry Welnle 77 Tim Marshall 
I

55 MIke Golic 71 Eric Dorsey 36 John Autry 92 Greg Dlngens 42 Mike Larkin 
E " NT CT WLB I 
TE ST SG c QG QT SE 
I

93 John McCabe 70 Marty Roddy 62 Ron Plantz 59 Ken Cannella 60 Joe Fazio 72 John Askin 6 Mike Viracola 91 Ricky r-•ay 73 Doug Compton 61 Jim Farmer 51 Jim Seith 65Greg Gollc 17 Mike James 
I QB I it
10 Scott Grooms 8TOdd Lezon 
I f ' 
~ 
I & 
~ ~ 
I i· 


Quarterback -For the first year since coming to Notre Dame, Blair Kiel will go home to Columbus, Ind. knowing that he is the starting signal caller. Tomorrow he will direct the first unit against the second team defensive unit. His backup will be Scott Grooms. Grooms probably has a lock on the spot. An interesting battle is being waged at third string QB be­tween Todd Lezon and Tom Cushing. Although Lezon has the~ superior arm and size, Cushing's gutty spring leaves this spot still up for grabs. · 
Fullback -"(Chris) Smith and (Mark) Brooks are going at it head to head," says Faust. This competition between the two roommates is so close that the starter won't be decided until the fall. Look for Brooks to start tomorrow based on his past experience. 
Tailback -Undoubtedly the most pleasant problem for the coaches, since the Irish are loaded with talent. Allen Pinkett has asserted himself as the startercomingoff his fantas­tic spring, but injured Greg Bell has yet to don his cleats. Al­though he does not know who will be the starter at either the tailback or fullback position, Faust says, "All four players will see lots ofplaying time next fall regardless ofwho the starters are." The depth at tailback is provided by Ray Carter, Lester Flemons, and incoming Moeller High School star Hiawatha Francisco. Carter appears to have made a move for the third string spot. "Ray Carter has looked good and has impressed me," remarks Faust. "Lester Flemons came on at the end, the last week or so, and then he got injured." In any event, tomor­row it will be Pinkett. 
Tight end -As of now this spot belongs to Mark Bavaro. Bavaro however is inexperienced and so are his backups Brian Behmer, john McCabe and Ricky Gray. None ofthe four men have ever caught a pass in a varsity game. If there is one spot where a freshman can come in and get a quick chance to play it may be here. 
Wide receiver -Another area of pleasant problems for Faust for there is talent here now and talent on the way in the fall. At split end joe Howard is beating out Milt Jackson but Faust warns that Howard does not have the starting spot sown up. Van Pearcy ran track this spring and his status on the depth chart is uncertain. 
At flanker Mike Haywood and Mike Favorite are currently ranked one-two. Along with Howard and Jackson, these two men will each see a lot of playing time. However on the way are a pair of thorougbreds by the names of Alvin Miller and Alonzo Jefferson who will have something to say about who starts in the fall. 
Offensive Une -This much is for certain with regard to 

85 Brian Behmer 79 Neil Maune 75 Larry Williams 82 Mark Bavaro SG ST TE 
Blair Kiel 

who will start next fall, barring injury Larry Williams .is the strong tackle, Neil Maune the strong guard, Mike Kelley the center, and Tim Scannell the quick quard. That leaves the quick tackle spot as the only uncertain position. C1ffrently red-shirted Mike Shiner is the starter, but that could chari:ge in the fall. If not Shiner, then John Askin, Greg Golic and Tom Doerger could all conceivably step in and start. 
Secondary -This is another area pretty much nailed 
down except for the weak cornerback position. There Daane 
Spielmaker and Pat Ballage are virtually in a dead heat. Ballage 
started the spring working with the first unit, but Spielmaker~ 
has come on strong the second half of spring. The Grand 
Rapids, Mich. native saw considerable action in the nickle 
defense last year as did john Mosley. 
Mosley will be backing up Stacey Toran at strongside cor­
nerback.)oe)ohnson will be the starting strongside safety and 
Chris Brown will take overfor Dave Duerson at the free safety. 
As a unit this spring, the secondary has been nothing short 
ofbrutal in its hitting. Ifthe receiver has had to jump to catch a 
high pass, the secondary has made it known that its going to 
hurt when he comes down. On several occassions)oe)ohnson 
has exchanged words or shoved a receiver after the play this 
spring. Johnson has exemplified best the intensity and hitting 
that has trademarked the oractic~s. 
-, 

Linebackers -"The NFL Group" -Naylor, Furjanic and Larkin -will start at on the strongside, in the middle and on the weakside, respectively. Quickness is the trademark here and none is quicker than Mike Larkin, not only on the Irish but perhaps in the entire counry. Last season his 104 tacJc!.es was second only Mark Zavagnin's 106. 
Tony Furjanic will start tomorrow in the middle after mis­
sing two weeks ofspring practice due to tom hand ligaments. 
Naylor is the man who is the difference between the Notre 
Dame 5-2 and its 4-3 on defense. 
The only interesting job fight is for second string middle linebacker. Here juniorjoe Bars and senior Tom Murphy are the two candidates. Bars has had a super spring campaign. 
Defensive Une -Tomorro.;-it will be Mike Golic at end, Eric Dorsey at flip tackle, )on Autry at nose tackle, and Greg Dingens at contain tackle, but this is very tentative. Tim Mar­shall is making his way back from a red-shirred season after two years as a starter and he could unseat Autry. "Jon Autry has had a fantastic spring," says Faust. "Marshall is coming off the injury. He has to work out this summer and get down to into better playing weight. He could do it and see a lot of action next year." At flip tackle, Eric Dorsey will have to contend with Mike Gann's presence in the fall as he comes back from knee surgery. Gann wassecond on the team in sacks last year and it is hard to invision him not starting come Sep-· tember. In the words of Faust, "There could be a lot of shuf­fling on the line yet." 
Punter -Blair Kiel is number one here as well. Mike Viracola is the backup and Kevin Kelly is the snapper. Placekicker -Irish record breaker Bruce )o~on has won the job again over Hal Von Wyl. IRISH ITEMS -Kick off tomorrow is at 1 p.m...•. Ticket 
prices are S3.50 for adults and n.so for youths ... All Notre 
..

Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted free of charge through Gate 15. 
The Observer Friday, April29, 1983-page 16 
1983 soccer preview 

Hunter must rely on young squad 

By SAM SHERRILL 
Sports Write~· 
When we last left the Notre Dame soccer team back in November, they had just completed one of their usual fme seasons with a record of 16-4-2. But once again, they had missed out on their perennial goal -an NCAA bid. Once more, the culprit was an inability to beat the big teams in their region. Could next season finally be the one? 
That is one of many important questions facing Head Coach Rich Hunter now that spring practice is over, and the players are preparing to head home for three months. The number one question, though, in many people's minds is if Hunter himself will be around to lead the 

.. 
t10MAQE 
.. . TO ISADORA 

A Presentation by the Notre Dame/ O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's Dance Theatre 
$3 General Admission 

With guest artist Kathleen Quinlan $2.50 Students. Senior Citizens. Faculty & Staff 
April 29, ·30. May 12. 13 at 8 00 pm Opening Night.· 2 for the price of 1 
May 1 at 2:00pm 
Information 284-4640 


Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has 
Fast. .. Free 
Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive 
Delivery
yourself with a well­rounded meal from 
Call us. 
Domino's Pizza. We'll help smooth the wrinkles 
277-2151 
out of your day. 1835 S. Bend Ave. Domino's Pizza Plaza 23 Center ® Delivers.'" 
Open for lunch Ask about our party 11 am-1am Sun.-Thurs. discounts. 11 am-2am ~=ri. &Sat. 
© 1983 Dommo's P1zza. Inc. Coke/16 oz. cups
,......................., 
I Qnly I
Fora 16" 1-item pizza1 plus 4 cups of Coke ! I 
1 $7 49 Coupon value $2.25. I
1 • (Tax not included.) I 1 Good Mondays only. I 1 Expires May 9, 1983 I
I 1
Fast, Free Delivery 1 I 1835 S. Bend Ave. I 1 Plaza 23 Center 1 Phone: 277·2151 : 
I ® Our drivers carry less than $20.00. II Umited delivery area. II 2ssJ2t2sso I 
L ••••••••••••••••••••• .J 

team come September. 
"I plan on being here," Hunter says. "Of course, I'm a non-tenured professor. I want job security. Then you consider that I work for the Ath­letic Department for free -this is strictly a volumeer job. But I intend to stay around. My teaching is my source ofincome." 
Hunter may be around, but for most fans of the 1982 edition of the Notre Dame soccer squad, his may be one of the few familiar faces. Gone will be seniors Mario Manta, Gerard McCarthy (team Most Valuable Player at goalkeeper), ful· !back Larry Smith, and a whole start­ing midfield of Mike Sullivan, Jay Schwartz, and Steve Berry. Add to this the transfer of promising fresh­man Joe Hohl and sophomore Dave Miles' studies in Rome next year, and one can undustand why Hun­ter's primary description of next year's team is one word -youth. 
"We'll probably start at least five sophomores next year, and about two or three juniors. So it could easi· ly be a struggling year, unless the team matures more quickly than I've anticipated. Beyond that, w:e ~hould_ have around fourteen freshmen coming in. I'll be frank on that mat­ter. A lot of players don't end up coming here just because of the finances of a university like Notre Dame. 
"And that just goes back to the problem of having no scholarships. As I've mentioned before, we are the only Division I school which does not grant soccer scholarships. Sure, it's quite a credit to have been so successful in Division I, being in that situation, but just think how much betterwe could be ifwe had scholar­ships. 
"Hopefully, we're making progress in that area," he continues. "Mr. Corrigan (Athletic Director Gene) seems a lot more open to that prospect now; he talked with our seniors after the end of the season last year, and I think he realizes its importance to us." 
The schedule runs from Septem­ber 6 to November 2 and includes 24 games, 12 home and 12 away. As usual, the high point of the season will be the game against the defend­ing national champions, the Indiana Hoosiers, on September 25. 
YOU TOO, CAN RUN THE FUN! 
Applications for next year's 
An Tostal Chairman are available this week and__ ~,:'v~ next from ~~, · :::.~ Margaret, · \.ll~li Ai(~' K 2nd floor, LaFortune. ~~~~~ 
J:IEBTZ_p_ENSKE_ ONE_wAYJBUCKS_ 
SPECIAL RATES FOR 
NOTRE DAM 

UHert;z ~ 'j" 1~ 
STUDENTS 
Hertz System Member 
Must Be 21 

710 N Niles Ave, South Bend, lnd 46617 
Telephone: 219 232-5871 
. COLLEy·s 
SPORTSWEAR 
1813 S. Ironwood, South Bend 219-234-6149 
LW.W. S.B.
~~)I
"Qualtiy work 

I 
R.R.
team, special 
.
'"' '""""· ''"' ~ 
event, promotion, . fraternity, or 
a 
:I 

~ 
:e
sorority." 
0
tN 
0 
0.
•Custom Screen 
c
Printing 
:0. 
•<
T-shirts, sweat shirts, award jackets &caps 

Ironwood on quantities 
Discounts 
* Villa~
Soul 

.. 
-----~----------~~-------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, April29, 1983-page 17 
1983 volleyball preview 
Newcotners will help with hard slate 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
There's this rule in volleyball that says only six players are allowed on the court at one time. Sandy Vanslager's Notre Dame volleyball team will have seven scholarship players next year. Throw in a few talented non-scholarship players, and it's not hard to see that Vanslager and her assistant, Dan An­derson, have a nice problem. 
"With the returning nine players and the three incoming scholarship girls," says Vanslager, "we're going t'-' have a lot more depth." 
The volleyball squad can't get much deeper in talent. Besides cur­rent scholarship players Karen Bauters, Mary McLaughlin, Josie Maternowski, and Mary Jo Hensler, and non-scholarship stars Terese Henken and Tracy Bennington, who will return from last year's 25-9 team, there will be three highly­touted newcomers to add more flexibility to the lineup. 
The presence of these three players has the coaches excited about the possibilities for improving both the offense and defense. AI· ready, they -Mve begun putting tO· gether plans for each of them. 
The first recruit, Mollie Merchant from Laguna Beach, Calif, has bee~ penciled in as a setter. The 5-6 veteran of the Junior Olympics and 
Junior Nationals decided to attend Notre Dame instead ofUSC, which is the second best team in the country. Her 24-inch vertical leap without any weight training has impressed her new coaches. 
Merchant's teammate in high school, Kathy McKeown, is also bringing her talents to the Midwest despite being recruited by Stanford: the fourth-rated team in the nation. McKeown also has an untrained 24­inch vertical jump and is expected to help out mostly as a setter. 
The last recruit to commit to 
Notre Dame, Karen Sapp, will 
provide help at the net. The Tem­
perance, Mich., native has physical 
capabilities that drew the atttenion 
of many college coaches. Her stand­
ing 27-inch vertical jump is what got 
the atttention. Because her high 
school season ran late, though, 
Vanslager and Anderson were able 
to get a head start recruiting her, and 
won the recruiting battle over al­
most every school in Michigan, In­
diana, and Ohio. 
"All three ofthese girls play excel­lent defense, both at the net and in 
Mr. C. T. Parmerlee Private Detective 
Parmerlee Detective Agency 
530 1/2 Carroll St., Apt. B South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 288-6621 
~..................srli·r;~~:rs-...........".1 
: : 
5 i
j LIVE IN THE CHICAGO AREA?~ jHOW ABOUT A SUMMER JOB?: 
! 
eAnd a great one 1 We sell RADIO 
! ADVERTISING nationwide by tele· 
Ephone from our Peterson Ave. offices 
!(6000 North!). Work days, or nights and 
ESaturdays, in casual. comfortable sur­
! roundings. The money is great! What"s 
Ethe catch? You must be an above ave­
! rage student; you've GOTT A be aggres· 
eive; )'ou must enjoy talking on the tele· 
5phone; and you must be willing to learn 
jCall us now at (312) 878 · 0800. We'll 
:call you right back to set up an inter­
!view date. If accepted you can lock up 
!a summer job now! 
j 
iPSI Marketing Consultants Inc.• 
i 10 years of service to RADIO i
: : 
••••••••••-•n•••••••••••••••••••••••--...,..._ ....J 
MCC Standings 
the back row," says Vanslager. "That's the key with these players. Offensively, we're going to be tougher, but we're going to concern ourselves with building the defense." 
An improvement on both offense and defense will be necessary if the team hopes to compete with a schedule that is much tougher than any previous schedule. The team will no longer be able to beat up on the Bethels and IUSB's as next year's schedule includes numerous top­ranked teams. 
Teams like Georgia and Purdue (fifth in the country last year) will visit the ACC Pit and its new wooden surface. Things will be even tougher on the road as the Irish will travel to · Louisiana State for a tournament over fall break. In that eight-team tournament are seven teams that were ranked in the Top Twenty. Notre Dame is the only team that was not. 
A .probable move into a con­ference will make an NCAA tourna­ment bid possible. The conference would include many of the teams in the Midwestern City Conference ­in which some men's teams com­pete -plus teams like Dayton and DePaul. 
With seven scholarship players and nearly all ofthe players from last year's successful team, Vanslager and Anderson have the potential to join the country's elite in a very short time. 

Detroit Xavier Notre Dame Butler 
Oral Roberts Evansville St. Louis Oklahoma City 
North Division  
3-1  
4-4  
4-4  
1-3  
South Division  
4-0  
0-4  
0-0  
0-0  

Today-Notre Dame at Butter (doubleheader) Tomorrow Butler at Notre Dame 
.. 


-~---·-----­

Friday, April29, 1983-page 18
The Observer 

Belles' awards 

Saint Mary's honors its athletes 
•

Pre-Election Day "Rally" OPEN AT 12 NOON 
eAt

ALL 12oz. canned beer-.75¢ Outdoor bar-b-q in parking lot­
TIPPECANOE Bar-B-q Ribs, chicken & hot dogs PLACE our food is as fabulous
Election Day · Open 6 pm 
as our setting. 
Our staff is 
dedicated to 
providing you 
with the finest 
dining experience 
to be found 
anywhere ...at an 
affordable price. 
Next time you 
dine out, visit
''a'' 
us at Tippecanoe

"arwaiter 
"qlike the
lhe salmon 
Place. You'll like

was top notch.
en croute had a 
atmosphere, the

To the graduating 1982-83 Student Union Commissioners: 
the way we makeHe even recom­

nice, flaky crust

Steve Strake 
service and the 

Darrell Nolan 
the occasion
which really 
mended our 
food. All three

MikeJans 
SPECIAL:'

wine which was
enhanced its 
go hand-in-hand

John Kelly 
Linda Powers 
·taste:' 
excellent:' 
to make a

Bart Reynolds Andy Abrams 
pleasant 

Alan K. Martuneac,

Bill O'Hayer 
evening:' 
Chef de Cuisine

Molly Noland 
Tim Phelan 
Alice Farmer

CCJhat1~ gjou 
South Bend, Indiana South Bend, Indiana 

for your hard work 
Gene Nemeth Mark S. McDonald, 
South Bend, Indiana General Manager

CotlgttatuQatiotlg 
CO 1983 Cont1mmtal FWstauranr System'!>

on your graduation 
Qood~uck 
r---------------------~
I TIPPECANOE ANY TWO (2) DINNER ENTREES I
in the "real world" 
Best wishes from the 1983-84 Commissioners 
I PLACE. JUST $1995 I 
: RESTAURANT You can save up to $13.45 : 
Present !his coupon when ur< 'ng and you and your companion will receive any lwo dinner entrees of your choice. including our
I I 
lableside salad, bread and buller, vegetable of the day, and rice or polaloes for just $19.95. 
I 1 
Coupon good during dinner hours through June 30. 1983. except 
I 

on Easter, Mother's Day and May 13 through 15. 1983. Not valid in conjunction with any other special offers or for banquets. 
I 
I 

620 W. Washington. South Bend. 234-9077 Does not include appetizers, desserts, beverages, or tax and lip.
I 
Reservations available. 

NDIN-C ©1983. Conl!nonral Resrau•onl s.,.,.ms 
I r 





the sports department was the Helen Holland Voll Award for excel­lence in intramuaral atheletics; this honor went to student-athelete Hol­ly Lingnowski. 
The Basketball team named Cindy Short its most valuable player as well as Betsy Ebert its most improved. Ebert also won the Coach's Award . The team's center, Missy Van Ort was named all-district honorable mention for her play on the court this season. 
The Volleyball team saw fit to give 
Marianne Viola its most valuable 
player award and to give sophomore 
Ann Button the Coach's Award. 
Rookie of the Year for the team was 
Molly Baker. 
Fencing gave honors to Eillen 
Mendez as MVP and Teresa Shilts as 
the Coach's Award recipient. 
Scott Trees' swim team named Julie Maier and Ann Cushing as it's most improved atheletes and gave Nancy Loenzini the Coach's Award. 
The tennis team, still involved in playing it's split season· named Deb Laverie MVP and saw Allison Pelar as most improved. Coach John Killeen named Maureen Fitzgerald the win­ner ofhis Coach's Award. 
Jean Kerich's track team named 
distance runner Annette Isom as it's 
MVP and named freshmen high jum­
per, Lisa Johnston as Rookie of the 
Year. 

And finally, the softball squad and head coach Scott Beisel named sophomore Trish Nolan as it's MVP and pitcher Annie Day as most im­proved. Beisel gave sophomore slug­ger Barb Theiss his Coach's Award. 
This has been an outstanding year for Saint Mary's athletic teams. Four of the seven varsity teams qualified for national championship tourna­ments and the tennis team added yet another State champiomship title to Saint Mary's athletic history. 
• • . Money 
continuedfroin page 20 
Since television executives and NCAA members alike are currently waiting for a court decision concerning the legality of the NCAA's role as negotiator for televi­sion contracts in collegiate football, they cannot be specific on the future role of cable television in collegiate sports. 
Wussler suspects that if Notre Dame was free to negotiate its own television contracts, "somebody could walk up and offer Notre Dame somewhere between 25 and 50 mil­lion dollars" for its football package. 
• 
Moving in games Dame a lot of money. Mary Sieger reports on Notre Dame's involvement with television and cable networks on the back page. 

Monday 
ByJUDY MCNAMARA 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's sports depart­ment honored its ath letes last Monday night during its I 983 Sports Banquet held in the campus dining hall. Awards were given to members of each of Saint Mary's seven varsity teams and special mention given to the four recipients of individual awards which the atheletic depart­ment distributes at the end of each academic year. 
Swimming sensation Gail Casey walked away with Athelete of the Year honors thanks to her outstand­ing performances all year long and her fine showing at the nationals held last March. Casey was named an AU-American in five different swim­ming events as well as being men­tioned by three different sports organizations. Casey was also recipient of her team's MVP award and proved herself a true student­athelete by receiving Academic All­American honors from the National Assosiation of Inter-colligate At­heletics 
The Scholar-Athlete Award which is given to the senior varsity athelete with the highest cumulative G.P.A. was received by swimmer Nancy Lorenzini. ­
The last special award given by 

----~--------··-··-· 

• 

IheO~~er======================================= 
Weekend 
Friday, April29, 1983-page 19 

&· ­
~ 
Jeb Cashin 

Fate 
Photius 
W£'-L, rTS 8£f~ ALOH6 YEAR,KEVI~J 'lEAH, 81Af MAYB£ 'OilS IS 
Cot4 C:t RATUL.ATIO~~ 
At40 SO~ OF iHE CN<To6N Sfltlf'S 'S&.ooM COUNTY' WIL.l 1'HE END 
ro ALL fH£' 

((RI\OWATES! 4ooo L.L\CK ON THOS£' 
FINAL~! HAV( A 4K.EAT 
S\lMMf~/ 

The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 4/29/83 
ACROSS 1 Tress 5 "These are 
the-..•" 10 Spouse 14 Use a 
mangle 15 Go·between 16 Hewn 17 Bancroft 
or Boleyn 34 Wager 35 Stone 36 Whirlpools 37 Prefix for 
puncture 38 Plndar work 39 Classified 
items 40 Placetor baby 
51 Extinct Siberian people 
53 Desk items of old 
56 Greek sorceress 
59 Beach sight 
60 Tenant's concern 

12 Chopdown 13 Biographer Leon 21 Considered as one 23 Friendly gesture 25 Ouoteas authority 26 Banana plant fiber 
18-Rica  41 Arrow  62 Plenty,  27 Happen  
19 Irritate  polson  to poets  again  
20 Spurn  43 -·jongg  63 Repute  29 Adjutant  
22 Barorder  44 Silkworm  64 Was flir·  31 Dabbler in  
24 Tokyo, once  45 Sphereot  tatlous  the arts  
25 Breakfast  action  65 Salt tree  32 "Wreckof  
fare  46 Kitchen  66 "-make a  the Mary-"  
26 Rainbow  emanation  deal!"  33 Savory  
28 Poker move  48 Gumshoe  67 Like some  jelly  
30 "Pagliacci"  49 Less  lawns  36 Dutch  
heroine  innovative  68 -·do-well  cheese  
39 Cupid  
DOWN  42 Responses  
1 Tale teller  46 Claim  
2 Caen's  47 Used car  
river  deal  
3 Guess  50 Permit  
4 Jostled  52 Expanse  
with a  53 Matinee- 
joint  54 Renoir  
5 Diplomacy  figure  
6 "But -on  55 Granny or  
forever"  slip  
7 Engages,as  56 Lamarr from  
gear teeth  Vienna  
8 Complete  57 Tinware  
9 Produce  58 Spouted  
10 Sang  pitcher  
4/29/83  11 Corn lily  61 But: Lat.  

~­

·Campus 
Friday, April29 
•3:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "Democratic Al­ternative: Nco-Liberals vs. Economic Democrats," Martin Carnoy, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

• 
3:30p.m. -Philosophy Colloquium, "A Priori 


Knowledge  for  Fallibilists,"  Prof  Aron  Edidin,  
Library Lounge  
•4:30  p.m.  Chemistry  Lecture,  

"Photofragmentation and Energy Transfer in Low Pressure Gasses and Low-Temperature Matrices," Prof George W. Flynn, 123 NSH 
•5:15 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry •7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Fahrenheit 451," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, S1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Diva," Annenberg t Auditorium, $2 

•7:30 
and 9:30p.m. -Film, "I Live in Fear," Cen­ter for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Coalition for Peace, free 

•s 
p.m. -SMC Dance Theatre, "Homage a Isadora," O'Laughlin Auditorium, 52.50 and 53 

•9 
p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Chorale, Sacred Heart Church 


Saturday, April30 
•9:30 
a.m. -Dean's Run, St. Mary's Lake Near Carroll Hall, S3 Registration Fee 

•1 
p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs. Butler University, Jake Kline Field 

•1:30 
p.m. -Lacrosse, ND Men vs Oberlin Col­lege, Alumni Field 

•1:30 
p.m: -Football, Blue and Gold Game, Stadium 

•2 
p.m -Transfer Orientation Committee Meeting, 1st Floor Lafortune 

Sunday, May 1 

•1 
p.m. -Innerclub Regata and Picnic, Notre Dame Sailing Club, St. Joseph Lake 

•1 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs. Ball State, Courtney Courts 

•3 
p.m. -Piano Concert, Walid Howrani, An­nenberg Auditorium 

•s 
p.m. -Concert, Michiana New Music, Little Theatre 

•8:15 
p.m. -Organ Concert, Judy Kay DeBruyne, Sacred Heart Church 


The Far Side · 


"By the way. we're playing cards with the Millers tonight . . And Edna says if you promise not to use your X-ray vision, Warren promises not to bring his Kryptonite." 

Chance to Dance with the KlttETICS 


Chautauqua fti. April Z9 9:30• 1 :30 fidm. S1 
Sponsored by the H.D. Student Union 
ejnior Bar 
"Senior Bar Class of '83" 

Digger signs Royal, rounds out newest group of recruits 
By CHRIS NEEDLES nouncement last week. --Woolridge was when he came to SportsEditorEmeritus Tulane (among others) for Royal's Notre Dame. And he could very well services, was in New Orleans last end up a first-round draft choice 
Donald Royal, a 6-7 swingman Tuesday and signed Royal that night. before he's through, the same way from nationally-ranked St. Augustine "Donald comes to Notre Dame Orlando did." · High School in New Orleans, has with great credentials, simply be-Although Royal was not listed signed a national letter of intent to cause he's a Louisville-Houston type among the nation's top 500 high attend Notre Dame next year, The of player," said Phelps. "The most school players in the preseason by Observer learned yesterday. interesting thing about him is that Street and Smith's, he received 
Royal, a quick 205-pounder, he's just beginning to mature as a honorable mention all-America averaged 13 points, 14 rebounds, player because he doesn't even turn from a number ofpublications, in ad-and four assists a game as a senior in 17 until next Monday. dition to all-state, all-district, and all-pacing St. Augustine to an un­"He has tremendous quickness metro honors from the New Orleans blemished 35-0 record, the and he's a great leaper. He's a 
Louisiana state championship and a sleeper, in the same way Orlando See ROYAL, page 13 No. 6 national ranking by USA Today.· Royal was a 53-percent shooter from the field this season while hitting 70 percent of his free ·-~ 
ND 'mystique' helps
throws. • The signing of Royal completes the Class of 1987 recruiting season 

draw television money 
for Irish coach Digger Phelps, who also acquired 6-3 guard Scott Hicks By MARY SIEGER tionally televised football game and oflndianapolis and 6-8 forward John Sports Writer approximately $360,000 for a game 
The Observer/Ed Carroll Bowen of Warren, Pa., while failing televised regionally by the net­to land 6-10 all-America forward Ratings are the name of the game.
Gerry Faust will be leading his troops on to the Notre Dame works. 
David Popson, who opted for North Networks, cable companies, even lo­
Stadium field tomorrowfor the 1983 Blue-Goldgame. See the spe­"There's not as much money in 
Carolina in a much-publicized an-cal television stations design their
cial section about thegame on page 14 and 15. cable as the networks," explains 
programmmg to attr;tct the largest 
Notre Dame's executive vice presi­audience. 
. dent, Father Edmund Joyce. "OfSeason near end Notre Dame's unique image in the course, ten years from now it will be 
world of collegiate sports attracts different." television coverage because the 
Notre--Dime does not appear fre­tradition and mystique associated
Track team enjoys recent success 
quently on cable television and with the Fighting Irish lures a larger rarely deals with Turner Broadcast­
BY, DAVE BRUNI 2:55 for Tyler over 1200 meters, 
which are being held in Des Moines, audience. ing. Corrigan suspects that the Uni­
Sports Writer 45.9 for Pearcy over 400 meters, 
"The ratings always show that
Iowa, tomorrow. versity will work more with WTBS1:49 for McNelis over 800 meters, Notre Dame is the best bet," com­
Both coaches praised the entire in the future "if they ( superstations)
What is the best kept secret in and Moyar anchored the final 1600 
ments Notre Dame's athletic direc­South Bend? Ask Track Coach Joe meters in 4:05. 
team this season. Piane noted the ·survive." 
tremendous improvements this year tor, Gene Corrigan. "The Corrigan and Joyce do not regard
Piane and he will tell you that it is Notre Dame also can boast about a of Tyler, Walsh, and Ed Juba. Juba highest-rated game last year was the Notre Dame's appearances on cable"'li this year's Notre Dame track team. wo::ld class runner. Steve Dziabis' 
Notre Dame-USC game." 
has dropped over one minute off his television as profitable ventures, butNow, most coaches believe that time of 1:01.92 currently ranks him "Hey, we're the same as everyone
two-mile time while at Notre Dame. as Corrigan explains, "Notre Dame is their teams fail to receive enough tenth in the world at the indoor 500 else," says Robert Wussler, ex­
Kelly spoke highly of the per­always interested in exposure overrespect, but Piane has much more meters. 
fomances ofMcCloughan, Patterson, ecutive vice president of Turner dollars."
than words to support his claim. As a team, Notre Dame placed and Kania. About Kania, Kelly said, Broadcasting. "We want big names According to Corrigan, delayedLast weekend the team sent four second at the Indoor State Cham­"he is the most coachable kid I have to promote the game and to get big­telecasts have not made much runners to California to compete in pionships, third at the Outdoor State ger ratings. I'd love to get the Notre
had in 16 years." money in the past and he does not
the distance medley relay at the Championships, first in the Midwest Dame-USC game every year." 
expect the situation to change muchMount Sa.n Antonio Relays. Jim Catholic Championships, and first in The fact that it is a young team and Currently, Notre Dame prefers to in the near future. Corrigan says theTyler, Van Pearcy,John McNelis, and the Midwestern City Championship. that Piane has some excellent deal with the networks rather than University sells some games to cableJim Moyar combined for Notre "We are the only Notre Dame recruiting prospects make the out­cable companies, like Turner operators to provide alumni and fansDame to run 9:35, which is the third team to have won our conference look for following seasons very Broadcasting, because of the ex­with an opportunity to see the
fastest time for the event in the championship this year," said Piane. promising. With more performances posure and money the networks of­games.
country this year. He, along with his assistant coach Ed and teams like this year's, Piane may 
fer. Notre Dame receives For those interested in some im­Kelly, has been readying the team have trouble keeping his future approximately $500,000 for a na-See MONEY, page 18 pressive splits, the breakdown went this week for the Drake Relays teams a secret. 
... 
A farewell message: Take sports seriously 
In the first issue ofThe Observer this year, I suggested that 
Cecil Rucker was on the verge ofbeing declared academically 
ineligible along with teammate Barry Spencer. Though Ruck­
er is no Phi Betta Kappa, his grades were sufficient, and he 
apparently wanted to kill me for making the inference, which 
came from a reliable source. 
If there was ever an omen ... 
Between then and now, I have r~ceived countless anonymous phone calls -mostly negative and mostly at the wierdest hours of the night. I was included in a skit at the Keenan Revue, had a Bookstore team named after me, and was hung in effigy at the pep rally after the Pitt game. (A photo I will always treasure, taken at the same rally, shows two people holding a sign, written in catsup to simulate blood, saying "Eat it, Needles"). 
And, unfortunately, I probably will be remembered only for making "gutless" a housebold word. 
I prefer to be remembered as someone who wasn't afraid to tell the truth, who wasn't blinded by the Notre Dame mys­tique, and who wasn't afraid to take on a football team -and an athletic department -that had problems beyond anyone's imagination. 
If I had my druthers, the football team would have gone 12-0 and won the national championship, and Gerry Faust would have been Coach of the Year. If I had my druthers, Fr. Joyce would be seen as a kind, gentlehearted human being after deciding to keep the hockey program. 
But that's not how it happened. And under anyone's Code of Ethics -a journalist's, a Catholic's, or whomever -the No. 1 tule is to tell the truth. So I did. 
Unfortunately, some people couldn't face the truth, and couldn't bear to see it in print. Ironically, the year before, many accused The Observer of being a "happy news" newspaper, accentuating the positive during a dismal 5-6 foot-
Chris Needles 
Sports Editor Emeritus 

ball season. 
This year, I vowed to tell the truth, be it good or bad. I couldn't see the point of witnessing Notre Dame get embar­rassed by Air Force -a team the Irish outweighed 50 pounds per man on the front lines -and say "Notre Dame lost 30-17 but, gee, they gave it a good try." 
That is not journalism; that is lying. And it serves no purpose anywhere, especially in a newspaper. 
Throughout this year, with all of the praise and the put­downs, only one thing still i.rks me -those people who say to me, "Why all the fuss? It's only a game." 
How absurd! At a university where the amount of alumni contributions, the number ofapplicants for admission, and the quality ofsocial life increase dramatically with each successful football season, where campus landmarks are referred to as "TouchdownJesus" and "Fair Catch Corby," how can anyone not feel that sports are important? Maybe "it's only a game" at an average university -which is what Notre Dame becomes when its success in sports declines. · 
Think about it. When you boast to friends back home about your college, what do you brag about? The climate? Religion? Social life? Median SAT sco:res ofincoming freshmen? No! You talk about sports. And the last two years have not done much for your bragging rights. 
That's why I worked more than 40 hours a week at this job, travelled coast-to-coast following your beloved teams, and reported the sometimes-gory details -I took it all seriously in hopes that you would, too. 

• 

One crank caller -obviously drunk -once asked me, "Do you hate Notre Dame?'' No, believe it or not, I like Notre Dame. A lot. It's not paradise, as many alumni claim, but ifI had to do it over again, I'd come here. 
The best thing I've found about Notre Dame is its people. The students make this university what it is. Despite the inces­sant cold weather, an oppressive administration and a depressing location, we always manage to have a good time. 
There are also a lot of class people in the athletic depart­ment: Digger Phelps, Mary DiStanislao, Gene Corrigan, Lefty Smith, and especially Gerry Faust -unfortunately, it was not my duty to judge Gerry's personality, just his football team. 
My farewell message to these people -especially students -is this: it's time to start taking sports seriously again. Be active participants, as I was. Cheer loudly when the Irish win; get mad as hell when they lose. Demand a good effort, and you. will get a good effort. 
Your teams will be winners once again, and then _you will see how great this University can be. 
• 

It's been a great four years with lots ofmemories, and I have many to thank for them, although they are too numerous to mention here. 
And as I sit here reflecting on a crazy four years oftriumph, conflict and controversy, where every day brought a different surprise, there comes word that, for 1983, The Sporting News will choose Notre Dame, 11-10-1 the last two years,No. 1 in its preseason college football poll. 
I can't think ofa more fitting ending. 










