
• • • Shakespeare -page 6 

VOL. XVII, NO. 126 the independent ~tlH.lt:nt new~paper sen·ing notre daml· and ~aint mary·~ MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1983 
Claim 13lives 
Record floods siege South 
SLIDELL, La. ( AP) -Residents of Mississippi line. Slidell lies 35 miles At the height of the storms, which this New Orleans suburb packed east of New Orleans, across Lake killed 13 people in Mississippi, sandbags and cleared out some of Pontchartrain. Louisiana and Tennessee before their belongings as the Pearl River, Students from a Baptist seminary moving into the Northeast, 27,000 engorged by days of rain, crept past in New Orleans helped other sweat­people were forced from their the record level set in a "100-year ing volunteers pack bags with sand homes. Thousands remained out of flood" of 1979. brought in by dump trucks. their homes yesterday in Mississippi. 
Civil Defense officials warned that "I've been here 25 years, some 
Officials said damage in the two the homes of 25,000 people were in people have been here all their lives, 
states could reach S350 million, and danger. and they say they've never seen it so 
the National Weather Service said An estimated 3.500 residents fled bad," said John Comeaux, who was 
more rain was on the way.from low-lying subdivisions by noon advised to leave his outlying home 
Officials estimated losses at up to yesterday following · televised Friday night. 
SIOO million in New Orleans, where evacuation warnings. The water 
..-------·-----­
near-record floods Thursday soaked came up fast during the day, and 
!·Tangipahoa R. 
thousands of homes and cut off all many people who waited until after­
telephone links to the outside world noon had to get out in boats. 
~
2-Tickfaw R. 
for much ofthe day. At least SSO mil­Thousands more continued in their 
lion damage was estimated in Baton fourth day of non-stop sandbagging. 
3-Amite R. 
Rouge. 

'...•
Water stood up to 15 feet deep in 
Louisiana Gov. Dave Treen has • some streets yesterday morning, an 
asked President Reagan to declare estimated 700 homes were flooded 
.)f)
16 parishes federal disaster areas, and officials said the worst was yet to 
making residents eligible for low­
come. 
interest repair loans. 
Associated Pre~~

St. Tammany Parish President 
In Mississippi, floodwaters 
A dog howls as residents watch water rush across the highway
Bruce Unangst said another 12 
receded from towns along the Pearl, 
leading to their homes at Franklintown, La.. Some 200 homes in
inches of water was expected to 
but water n;mained high from Leaf 
the area were flooded by waters ofthe swollen Bogue Chitto River. 
flood the area by this afternoon. 
River flooding in Hattiesburg and 
Flooding in the Deep South has caused .near~v S350 million in
"We're looking for the Pearl to 
Petal that forced about 5,000 people 
damages, according to the most recent estimates of the National
crest this afternoon at around 22 from their homes. 
Weather Service. See stOr)' and map ofthe flooding at left.
feet" -twice flood stage, said Civil 
Defense spokesman Sam Morton. 
"The previous record was 19.75 At Law School in 1979, which was supposed to have been 100-year waters," a level reached, on average, only once 
Lobbyists debate campaign funds 
every 100 years. "We've already exceeded those levels." By KATHLEEN HOGAN ercise in discussion that misses the mon Cause proposes use ofa system The worst flooding was expected StaffReporter whole point," argued Dolan. Com­they were successful in instituting in to come this evening in 10 subdivi­mon Cause is planning to introduce presidential elections beginning in
Like other residents interviewed at an evacuation center, he said he
sions, where about 25,000 people Randy Huwa, lobbyist and direc­legislation this week in Congress 1974. live, near a scenic cypress swamp, tor of the campaign fund monitoring this week to limit PACs. Dolan said In what Huwa termed "the most
would go back as soon as the waters 
Morton said. The city itself, seat of receded. project of Common Cause, a that would only amplify the others' important campaign finance legisla­"I don't want to, but I got no place
Louisiana's fastest-growing parish "citizen's lobby," said that money voices -such as professional lob­tion ever," Congress agreed in 1974 else to go," he said.
with about 65,000 residents, was ex­from political action committees byists, whom he reports spend more that presidential elections should be pected to remain dry. The flooding in Slidell followed a (PACs) is "an effective way to lobby than PACs to gain intluence. publically funded. Presidential can­Interstate I 0, the South's main three-day deluge last week that Congress" and buy influence. The PACs, according to Dolan, are not didates now must prove they are 
thoroughfare linking Florida and drenched Louisiana and Mississippi comments were made at a debate trying to buy votes in Congress candidates by raising at least S5000 
California, was blocked for a five­and brought near-record floods to Friday sponsored by the White Cen­when giving campaign money; they in a minimum of 20 states at which 
mile stretch from near Slidell to the New Orleans. ter. are trying to help elect candidates time the Federal Elections Commis­
Debating against Huwa was Na­with similar views to oftice. Dolan !>ion will provide matching funds. 
tional Conservative Political Action noted that Common Cause spent The primary source of matching 
Committee (NCPAC) founder and twice as much money as the NCPAC funds is the dollar check-off on
Chinese exchange planned 
chairman Terry Dolan, who coun­in 1982. "We don't know how they income tax return forms. 
tered that Common Cause was mis­spent it -they don't have to tell," Congressional candidates also 
sing the issue. Dolan said. must meet certain other criteria 
Common Cause has launched a Common Cause, which relies on betore qualifying for matching 
campaign to limit political action the dues of its 250,000 nationwide governmental funds. 
despite cultural break-off 
ByPATSAIN The purpose of the program, 
committees. members for 90 percent of its fun­The goal of Common Cause is to 
StaffReporter O'Meara noted. is to "bring to atten­
"There is a geat correlaton be­ding, plans to introduce legblation reduce the intluence of PACs ontion" the opportunities the tween receipt of campaign funds aimed at persuading Congress to Congressional voting.
Plans for a Notre Dame-China ex­countries have to offer each other. 
and voting behavior," said Huwa. support an alternate source offunds Huwa expressed the belief thatchange program will not be a1fected America, for example, has a lot of by China's cultural breakoff last technological knowledge which Thursday with the t:nited States, would benet1t the Chinese students, says Provost Timothy O'Meara. O'Meara pointed out. 
The severing of cultural and There are already a number of sports ties with the U.S. was sparked Americans studying in China ­by the American decision to give many of whom are engineers, political asylum to Chinese tennis O'Meara said. The Chinese govern­star Hu Na. Only official relations be­ment also is paying many Chinese tween the U.S. and China will be af­>scholars to come to the United fected, 0'~1eara reported. Individual States to study. matters, such as student exchanges The relations between China and and tourist activities, will not the U.S. always have been slow, said change. O'Meara. "The speed and length of 
The exchange program is "really official relationships depends more just intentions," at the present time,, upon the individual Chinese univer­0'~-teara emphasized. "It is just in sities than upon the official relation­the embryonic stage." O'Meara ships between the two countries," hopes the program will become a O'Meara noted. 
"reality this summer. The cultural breakoft· might make 
"The program depends upon the communications a bit slower, whether the Chinese schools have but will not result in a complete the academic resources to interest breakdown of plans for the ex­us, and whether there are Notre change program. Dame students who are interested," The program may take a long time O'Meara said. He described the at­to work out, said O'Meara. He noted titude toward the program as that he had originally tried to get the "optimistic, but exploratory." program started last summer, hut mentioning that the oftkial relation· the invitation from the Chinese 
"This topic is an interesting ex-for Congressional elections. Com-this will be "an uphill fight. We need 
Observer places fourth in 

journalism competition r 
The Ohsert•er garnered several place award in the best editorial 
a\vards at the annual Indiana Col­campaign category for a series on 
legiate Press Awards, held Friday the Kanury atomic blast project. 
and Saturday at Wabash College The series was written by Paul 
in Crawfordsville, Ind. :YicGinn. (ireg Swiercz and 
CartoonistJeb Cashin earned a Patrick .\1ulligan. 
t1rst place award in the category First place award for best 
of best editorial cartoon. inside page make-up went to the 
Dennis Ryan. anotherObsen•er Oct. H Showcase section of The 
cartoonist, placed second in that Ohserl'er. 
category. Two third place awards for ads 
Former features editor Tari were gained for best usc ofcolor 
Brown won a t1rst place award in in an ad and best layout ofads in a 
the best column category ti.>r her single issue. 
column, "Once upon a time ..." Tbe Obsert1er placed fourth 
Former sports editor Chris overall in the state competition. Needles won third place in the In the category of news and best sports story category for hb general interest magazine, story. "Poise, Hot Shooting Lift Scholastic magazine placed first 'Cats.'" in the state with a total of 21 to convince a majority of the 5 35 members of Congress to change the rules of a game by which they have won." 
"There's hope," Huwa added, al­though the legislation may have to be limited to the House of Representatives. 
Saying that PACs do not have all the influence Common Cause claims they do, Dolan countered that.one of the most intlucntial groups in Wash­ington is the Israeli lobby, which is not a PAC. Statistics show that professional lobbyists spend more money per annum than PACs, he added. 
"Maybe there is no difference be­tween what PACs do and what Com­mon Cause does. Should we then limit Common Cause'" Dolan chal­lenged. 
The difference between the ac­tivities of PACs and Common Cause and other lobbyists is that "PAC:s do it publicly and in the light of cam­paigns. They have to disclose where 
The Obsen•er earned a second awards.
ships between the two countries arrived in November -too late to 
See DEBATE, page 3
probably would have little etkct. start anything for this year. 
Monday, April 11, 1983-page 2

News Briefs 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press ANotre Dame womanwas accosted while walking 
A step in the right direction 
in the 1000 block of Eddy St. yesterday morning at approximately 
3:00. The student reported that she was dragged into a car by the assailant, who was described as a dark-haired white male ofmedium build, wearing a blue tie, dark green sweater, and a grey sports jack­et. She eventually freed herselffrom the attacker and ran back to her residence hall. She reported the incident to Notre Dame Security, who informed the South Bend Police. No description of the as­sailant's vehicle was available. -The Observer 
Traditional menand their method ofdealing with the modern world in terms of women, children and career will be the subject of a lecture tonight by Donald Bell of Harvard Universitv. Sponsored by Student Government and the Notre Dame Women.'s Caucus, the lecture will be at 7:30 in Nieuwland Hall, Room 127. ­
The Observer 
Michael Wyschogrod, chairman of the 
department of philosophy at Baruch College, City College of New 
York, will give a lecture entitled "What is Jewish Monotheism?" at 8 
tonight in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium. Wys­
chogrod, author of "Kierkegaard and Heidegger: The Ontology of 
Existence" and "Jews and 'Jewish Christianity,"' has written several 
philosophical and theological articles for a variety of scholarly and 
general interest magazines includingCommentary,jewish Horizon 
andjewish Life. His lecture, sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Theology, is one of its Liss Lectures in Judaica series. The Liss Lectures inJudaica series is endowed by a gift from South Bend busi­nessman Bert Liss and his wife Etta. The series brings outstanding Jewish educators and historians of to Notre Dame's camous each year. -The Observer 
A specialist in the changing ecologies and 
economic systems of emerging peoples, John Bennett of Washing­ton University, St. Louis, will present the second talk in the Notre Qame Inaugural Lectures in Anthropology. "Anthropology and the Emerging World Order: The Paradigm ofCulture in an Age of Inter­dependency" will be the title of his talk at 3:30 today in the Hayes Healy Auditorium. Noted for his studies in agrarian development, Bennett has studied of the Hutterites, the Northern Plainsmen and theJapanese. He is the authorof"The Ecological Transition: Cultural Anthropology and Human Adaptation." -The Observer 
Two inmates escaped from the medium security Branchville Training Center this weekend during a recreation break, an officer for the Indiana Department ofCorrections said yesterday. Authorities identified the men as Michael Ristrich, 26, and Ricky Brooks, 27. Ristrich is serving as 2-year-sentence for theft in Vander­burgh County. Brooks was serving a 5-year sentence for burglary. Both men were sentenced earlier this year. Officer Paul Ungerecht said the men escaped through a restroom window in the gymnasium and walked away. The breakout occured around 1:30 p.m. Saturday and the men are still at large. -AP 
Democrats are nervously watching 
Chicago's bitter mayoral campaign. fearing defeat for Harold Wash­ington tomorrowcould drain away vital black support for their 1984 presidential nominee. Some Democrats already are speaking of dis­ciplinary measures against Chicago ward bosses who are backing Republican Bernard Epton against Washington, hoping to be the city's first black mayor. Some black leaders, meanwhile, say the party must be held to account if it can't deliver white votes. Some predict a Washington defeat would discourage blacks from turning out in 1984. "They see that Democrats are going into the Republican Party (in Chicago) in droves, which makes it seem that the real party is a white citizens party and not a Democratic Party," says the Rev . .Jesse 
L. Jackson. head of the Chicag~>-based Operation PUSH. If Washing­ton loses black voters are likely "to ask some questions." says his pollster. Pat Cadell. One likely question, he says. is: "Where's the reciprocal support. when we're supporting white Democrats bv bet­ter than three to one or more?" Jackson and others have desc~ibed the party's response to Washington's candidacy as a "litmus test" for Democrats. -AP 
A leading PLO advocate of reconciliation with Israel was assassinated yesterday by a gunman who pumped five bul· lets into his head and chest at point-blank range in a crowded hotel lobby and escaped under police gunt1re. An extremist Palestinian splinter group claimed responsibility for the murder. Issam Sartawi. the Palestine Liberation Organization's European coordinator, col­lapsed in a pool of blood by the hotel reception desk. Police said he died instantly and that an aide suffered a thigh wound in the attack. Sartawi was representing the PI.O at the 16th Socialist International, a conference of socialist politicians held in this coastal resort. "It b our pleasure to communicate to you our succes~ in implementing the death sentence towards a criminal and a traitor." said a statement by the Revolutionary Council of the fatah. The faction is led by Abu Nidal. a PLO renegade. -AP 
Decreasing cloudiness this afternoon. The high will be in the mid to upper 40s. Clearing and cool tonight with the low in the low 30s. Mostly sunny and warmer tomorrow with the high in the low to mid 50s. -AP 
'i.",'!"". 
. 
·"·· 

In 1972 Notre Dame first admitted women to the University and proceeded to house them in dorms across the campus. The number of women continually grew as did the number of converted men's dorms. In 1982, the Pasquerillas, the first dorms built specifically for women, were completed. 
Through these 10 years, single-sex dormitories have been the rule. Notre Dame's single-sex residentiality is one ofits most alluring qualities. In fact, student life has become so dorm oriented that fraternities and sororities are deemed unnecessary, at least by the Ad­ministration. Students enjoy the privacy of single-sex housing and the close relationships it fosters among hall residents. However, freshmen as well as upperclassmen may become disenchanted with this life after a time. 
There exist serious problems in male-female rela­tions at Notre Dame. "Friendly" affiliations between members ofthe opposite sex are often difficult to estab­lish and maintain. Here in the shadow of the Golden 
Sarah Hamilton 
Features Editor 

Inside Monday 


men ofStanford would be moved to Farley hall. Current residents of Keenan and F-arley would be offered the option to participate. Those choosing not to participate would be moved to the dorm oftheir choice and volun­teers would be taken from the rest of the campus. 
The Student Senate voted 10-4 in favor of this proposal with one abstention. The Hall Presidents Council failed to endorse it a week later. The presidents of both Farley and Stanford opposed the plan. 
Notre Dame is currently a co-educational residential 
Dome, in the land of parie­university in which men and tals, it is not uncommon to women are housed in single see a man in a woman's sex dormitories. There is no dorm, but sometimes the problem with that. A nature of his visit is ques­problem does arise though tioned. And after midnight when the single-sex atmos­on weeknights and 2 a.m. on phere contributes or per­weekends any friendships haps even creates a are restricted to 24-hour community in which adult lounges, most commonly men and women cannot referred to as "passion pits." relate in a relaxed manner. Not exactly the atmosphere According to Proposal 1 18 for a platonic relationship. "partitions would be 
This problem has been removed between all com­addressed several times: in mon space" in Keenan­the 1975 Malits Committee Stanford. This would allow Report, and most recently, for, at ctually cause. the more in the PACE Report. The natural intermingling of the Malits Report supported all­sexes needed here. male and all-female This is not co-residential residence halls. "Coming to living. It is not supposed to 

a full sense ofone's womanhood -or manhood -re­
quires time and privacy with other women ­ or men ­ 
as  does  the  development  of  deep  and  enduring  
friendships among one's own."  

The report admitted, however, that this one single model was not satisfactory for all students. It suggested as an optional residential arrangement, specially defined "co-residential" dormitories. In such a hall, "the living areas would be separate for women and men and 
would be governed by the regulations of parietal hours." In 1975 women had only been a part of Notre Dame for three years. They were just gaining accep­tance in the classrooms, let alone the residence halls. No such dorm was designed. 
Eight years later, this suggestion has resurfaced in the form of "Resolution 118," a proposal submitted to the Student Senate by Greg Miller, North Quad student senator. The proposal calls for the conversion of Stanford-Keenan into a "co-residential" complex. The be. It is the first step toward better relations on campus and possib~y toward co-ed dorms. It is a preliminary action that should be taken. Co-residential dormitories, as defined by Proposal I 18, may be the best thing Notre Dame can do to alleviate this problem of strained rela­tions at this time. 
There are alternatives. The PACE Report suggested satellite social centers and the development of a"cluster of social and cultural centers." These sugges­tions do not seem to be taken seriously. The Old Fieldhouse has been razed, leaving a very large open space in the center ofcampus. Yet, a pedestrian mall is planned for the area, despite the cries from students and the PACE committee, among others, for increased so­cial space. 
This leaves Proposal 118 -a part ofa long range plan designed to improve relations between men and women at Notre Dame. When looked at in this light, rather than as a lot of hustle that does not change any­thing, can we afford to brush it off so quickly? 
The_Ohserver 
Design Editor... ......J.P. Keyes-A. A. Design Assistant.... ......Tom Typesetters ... .....Rt'v.gie, 
BWD-The Ill> Bov 

.'Vews Editor. ................................... Diane! Copv lidilor..... .. .............. Karh Features Layout.. .. . ....................... Sarah. Mary 
I 
Editorials faJ•out... .......... l.ihh~ .\jJorls CojJJ' l:'dilor...... . ........... \tihx \"0 IJar Editor..... .. \1tk~ II Trpisls .. . ............... l.ihh~ .4d /JesigN.. .. ........Jim? f'hotogrupher.. . ......... Paul 
&uf!sl .-tppearance... ..Apoc1lyp~c.· '\to\\. JP.-~·'\;t:'l ~1!-oh.:r!'-o 
(,oodent>ugh ~ISler~. \Iaria, Hobin Brown "Thl' horror, rlw horror" 


The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacatiOn periods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College SubSCriptions may be purchased for $30 per year t$15 per semester) by Wriling The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame In­diana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 


.................................................................................................,. 


ND -SMC STUDENTS 
SUMMER DISCOUNT GROUP 
RATES 8 & 8 Storage Self-Service :: 1/2 miie south of Niles K-Mart : 3001 U.S. 31 ·east side of highway.
,..................................................................................................... 



REMEMBER 
Yearbook Senior Portraits!! 
April 5 to April 22 9:30 · 1 and 2 · 5:00 
YOU CAN STILL SIGN UP FOR YOUR PORTRAIT BY CALLING 239-5183 NOW!! 
Sittings: Traditional $5.00 Contemporary $8.15 

The Observer Monday, April II, 1983-page 3 

Attention Freshmen! Sign ups for 
~npqnmnrt 1Jliteraru1J1estiual 
have been extended through April15 
Student Union Office 2nd Floor LaFortune 
H.D.S.U. 


Concert Commission 
is looking for next year·s 
Assistants 
Submit a one page application to the Student Union by Wednesday midnight. 
'Nuclear Dilemma' 


-New course to focus on arms race 
By MARY EASTERDAY 
News Staff 
"I expect very few students in the future will get through Notre Dame without taking this course," Profes­sorjohn Gilligan, White Professor of Law, said in describing a new course to be offered next fall entitled, "Nuclear Dilemma." The course will focus on the moral and intellec-

New award honors St. Mary's sophomores 
By MARY ANN POTTER 
StaffReporter 
A new award, instituted by the Saint Mary's 1982-83 sophomore council, will honor five Saint Mary's sophomores this year. 
The Mother Pauline Award, as it is called, is in honor ofa past president of the college. The award will be given to five sophomore women who best exemplify the hard working, friendly and thoughtful nature of Mother Pauline. 
Mother Pauline attended Saint Mary's as a student and later became a sister of the Holy Cross in 1879. She was named President of Saint Mary's College in 1895, a position she held for 36 years. Some of the great accomplishments of her tenure included the building ofSaint 
joseph's, Holy Cross and LeMans Halls. 
"I believe that too often the only people at Saint Mary's who are recognized are those who are academically outstanding, athletic or involved in student government," said Sophomore Class President Cara Hageman. "Since Saint Mary's is a Catholic institution, I believe that we should recognize people who are genuinely sincere and good people," she added 
Hageman submitted the idea of the award to the sophomore council and received their full support. 
I 

• • . Debate 
continuedfrom page 1 
they spend their money, and they have limitations. Common Cause and other lobbyists do it secretly and with unlimited expenditures," Dolan argued. 
As a final challenge to Common Cause, Dolan said he would support limitations on PACs as soon as Com­mon Cause supported the idea of making lobbyists disclose their ex­penditures. 
Huwa answered that Common Cause favors such disclosure and has lobbied for it in the past. 
• 

tual dilemmas posed by the menace of nuclear weapons in a violent world, as outlined by the Pastoral Letter of the American Catholic Bis­hops. 
The Bishops Pastoral Letter on War and Peace in the Nucle_ar Age was the basis for this course. In their letter the Bishops asked that the matter of nuclear war be touched upon and discussed in every diocese 
"The name (Mother Pauline Award) was first suggested to me by Dr. Duggan (President of Saint Mary's) after I explained to him the purpose of the award," Hageman said. After being told about Mother Pauline and all she had done for the college, Hageman along with the council decided an award in her honor would be appropriate. 
Sophomore students may be nominated by anyone in the college. A committee composed ofstudents, faculty, and administrators will review the nominated students based on such things as determina­tion, sensitivity to others, attitude toward all people and amicability, according to Hageman. 
"This year, the recipients will receive medals as a constant remin­der ofthe example they have set for the school community," said Hageman. Their names will also be placed on a plaque and a dinner will be held in their honor sometime next year. Hageman hopes the award will become annual. 
Nominations will be accepted un­til this Friday and may be turned in to the Student Activities Office in LeMans Hall. 
rrh: ;est ~eers ;AI: Ar7B:'br:-c~ 
t 
Create your own fresh. frothy. natural beer with our complete { brewing kits. · 
( At Crystal Mountain we help you put it all together: The finestJmalt~. hops. and yeasts available. simple. quality equipment. and ~ Slep-by-step proced"'"-everything yo" need to make 5gallons ) 
A h~ht. smooth tdste $39 S.:5 are also available separately ' Amber Ale 0 -send for free brochure. 0 'A f!dvorful. golden hr.ew $,)9 S,) L! Mcney Order
European Dark Ale 0 c Check 
C MasterCard 0 VISA ~ A mellow. Old World t'ldvor S-11 00 
Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery
Irish Stout 0 
Add $5 80 for shipping and handling 
R"h ddrk dnd full hod1ed S4-1 00 

·
!
t 
~= City/State/Zip Card H 
Signature 


and parish. 
"The questions of war and peace have a profoundly moral dimension which responsible Catholics should not ignore," said Professor Gilligan. "As a Catholic university, the least we can do is raise these questions and attempt to deal with them and assist the students in dealing with them," he added. 
Notre Dame is the only university 
in the country to approach this sub· 
ject from an interdisciplinary point 
of view, using experts from various 
departments. Professors represent­
ing the Theology, Philosophy, 
Government and International Af­
fairs, Economics, Sociology, and 
Communication and Theatre 
departments will teach the course. 
Many different departments are involved with the course because the the kinds ofquestions the threat of nuclear warfare raises extend to many different areas and disciplines. Experts in the various disciplines will address problems within their area ofexpertise. 
The course will satisfy one of the two Theology requirements all un­dergraduates at the University of Notre Dame are required to com­plete. 
"This course is made available to 
all departments, not just Arts & Let­
tters students, by fulfilling the 
Theology requirement," said Gil­
ligan. 
All of the lectures and sessions will be videotaped in the hope of producing an edited series to be used as an educational device on other campuses. 
"Notre Dame educates young people to do more than just make a living. We educate them to live bet­ter lives guided by moral principles. The most important question we must help the students to face is how to deal with nuclear warfare," con­cluded Gilligan. 

The Observer/Paul CiWelli 

Pat Campbell (left) andjack Mason thrive in the wetness and dreariness of the South Bend spring as they practice mud vol­leyball. Mud volleyball tournaments will be starting soon as part 
ofthe annualAn Tostal festivities. 
It doeSfl't cost afortune move home from college less than $200 


U·DON'T HAYE·TO·HAUL 
Delivered from school to home! 
S.U. Ticket Office/ Record Store (1st floor LafOrtune) for more inform!'ltion 
Less than 
$200 



The Observer Monday, April 11, 1983 -page 4 
'Ghandi' and 'E.T.' favored 
Oscar awards to air tonight 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-As the an­nual Oscars hoopla approaches its glittering climax tonight, the leading contenders for the best picture award appear to be the stories of In­dia's spiritual leader and a friendly creature from outer space. 
While "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial" is the biggest money-making film ever, "Gandhi," looked best in the odds because of the large number of awards it already has received, including the bellwether Directors Guild prize for Richard Atten­borough. 
Less likely winners arc the other nominated tllms, ":vlissing,'' "Tootsic" and "The Verdict." 
The 55th annual nominat1ons have been unusually free of con­troversy. 
While a tlap arose when the l'.S. Justice Department labeled three government-made Canadian films as propaganda, the academy refused to become involved. One of the films, an anti-nuclear short, "If You Love This Planet," had been nominated 
' for an Oscar.
The Ohserver/Paul Cifarelli 

Father Theodore Hesburgh (left) bestows the Catherine F. Huisk­On the day of the academy's ing Professor ofTheology chair upon Father Charles Kannengies­luncheon for nominees, a group ser. Kannengiesser, an international(y renowned professor ofthe known as New Breed called for a history oftheology spokeon "The Contemporary Task ofHistorical boycott of the Oscars, saying that Theology" yesterday afternoon in the Library Auditorium as part blacks have been largely excluded ofhis inauguration to the Huisking chair. from the movie and television in­
................................................................................................................................................... 
Student Activities meeting
monday, Aptilll, 7:00pm, Libtaty Auditotium 
PURPOSE: 

To explnin new procedures nnd to nnswer' questions regnrding registrntion of clubs, finnncinl stntements, budget requests, movie nnd footbnll concessions, etc. WHO SHOULD COffiE: A representive from ench club or orgnni.zntion on cnmpus. 
.....................................................................................................................................................: 



NO Clubs & Organizations 
TIME TO RE-REGISTER FOR 83-84. NEW SYSTEM THIS YEAR! 
1. Registration-now thru April 22. 
2. Activity Report-Due by April 22. ·3. Applications for activity funds for 83-84-Due by April22. 4. Footbal Concession Stand for Fall, 83-Due April 22. 5. Movie Application for Fall, Spring 83-84-Due April15 
All forms available in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune. FUNDS FOR NEXT YEAR WILL BE AWARDED THIS SPRI~ 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP 
. . 
ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How man~· corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company ::~iter graduation? L'nder a sp<'cial ~avy progrnm we're doing just that. 
ks called the ~uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it. you'll not only get great pay during your junior and sen10r ~·ears. but aiter graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate·ievcl training that is not available from any other employer. 
II you ar(• a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or pbysical scienc.:-s. find out more today. And lee your career pay off while still in college. 
For more inform~tion, call the !':aval Management Programs Office at: 
1·800-382·3782 
L' il Sibs Weekend bus departures scheduled 
This is a departure schedule for those who have paid and regis­tered for the following buses: The location for pick-up and drop-off is the central Greyhound bus station unless indicated by asterisk ( • ). Look for the bus marked 
"Lil' Sibs."  
City  Fri. Dep./Arr.  Sun. Dep./Arr.  
Buffalo  IOa.m.-Hp.m.  12noon-10p.m.  
*Chicago  2 o.m.-5:30p.m.  12:30 p.m.-2 p.m.  

(depart: 1 LaSalle Street-Notre Dame Club) 
Cincinnati 10 a.m.--1 p.m. 12:"15 p.m. -6:45p.m. 
Cleveland 4::~0 p.m.-10 p.m. 4 p.m.-9 p.m. Detroit II :30 a.m. -4 p.m. 12:45 p.m.-5:15p.m. Indianapolis 12:30 p.m. -4 p.m. 12:45 p.m.--I: I 5 p.m. 
Milwaukee 12:30 p.m.-6:30p.m. 11:30 a.m.--~:30 p.m. *New York City 6:30a.m.-10::)0 p.m. 5::)0 p.m.-"7:45a.m. 
(Depart Grand Central Station -Soutb Side of 42ndStreet; stops in Newark, Nj GreyhoundStatiotl: 8 a.m. (Fri.) and "7 a.m. (Mon.)) 
Philadelphia 6::'>0 a.m.-10 p.m. -1 p.m. -7 a.m. 
Pittsburgh 12:30 p.m.-9 p.m. 11:15 a.m.-H p.m. 
St. Louis 7:30a.m. -5:30p.m. 12 noon-7:30p.m. 
St. Paul "7:30a.m. -7:30p.m. I 2 noon -I 0:-15p.m. *Washington D.C. "7 a.m.-9 p.m. II :I 5 a.m.-I:30 a.m. 
(/Montgomery .Hall, Bethesda, MD-7101 Democracy B/!1(/.) 
Applications now being taken for 
~1nance CluB Sta~~ pos1t1ons 
Information and applications available in Room 225 Hayes· Healy Monday, April11 through Friday, April15 · positions open to everyone . 
,. 

Applications for ~ 
ASSISTANT TREASURER STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 
2nd f1oor LaFortune Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting major 
Applications Due Friday, April15 4:00 PM 
.... ~ 
.. 
... 

-.-......... -~---····-~·-····"."-..--~ ~1"'[-~~-....~ •• •.; ...:· ~.. 
dustries. But no ground swell has developed. 
In fact, black leaders, including Oscar winner Sidney Poirier, turned out for a reception honoring Louis Gossett Jr., a nominee this year as best ~upporting actor for "An Officer and a Gentleman." 
Another brief hassle arose over 
screenings of foreign-language films 
in New York. Academy memhers 
must see all five films in that 
category in order to vote. But two of 
the tlve nominated films were not 
available in that city, so no screen­
ings were scheduled. 
After vigorous protests from spon­sors of the films, screenings were hastily arranged for Easterners, who comprise I 0 percent of the Academy's voters. 
At this point, only the accountants 
of Price Waterhouse & Co. know 
this year's winners for artistic merit. 
But ~orne of the awards already have been announced. 
The Academy award for scientit1c and technical achievement went to August Arnold and Erich Kaestner of Arnold and Richter tor the first operational 35mm, hand-held, spinnmg-mirror retlex camera. 
Academy  plaques  tor  I 0  other  
achievements  were  pre~ented  at  a  
banquet last month.  

Tonight. Boo Hope will present an honorary award to :\1ickey Rooney "in recognition ofhis 50 year~ ofver­
satility in a variety of memorable tllm roles." Producer Walter \tirisch will receive the Jean Hersholt 
humanitarian award. The Gordon Sawyer award for scientitk achieve­ment goes to veteran sound man john 0. Aalherg. 
The academy hoard of governors decided against giving rhe Irving Thalherg award for consistent quality of production thi~ year. 
Monday, April 11, 1983 -page 5
Editorials 
Chicago and Philadelphia: ready or not 
Tomorrow, the city of Chicago will decide whether it is ready or not to elect its first black mayor. Harold Washington, who faces Republican Bernie Epton in the first serious mayoral general election in more than half a century, is trying to show the nation that a black man can become mayor of a large, predominately white and predominately working-class city. 
Michael Riccardi 
Guest Columnist 
In Philadelphia, W. Wilson Goode is showing, in a far quieter way, how to do it cor· rectly. 
Early next month, Goode will face Philly's almost-legendary ex-mayor, FrankL. Rizzo, in that city's Democratic primary. Like the Washington·Epton race, a black man is run­ning against a white man in a city that is 60 percent white (white voters make up 57 per· cent of the Democratic primary). And Rizzo is a man of no small popularity in the ethnic neighborhoods of the city, unlike Epton. Therefore. one might have expected the c;oode-Rizzo race to be an extremely divisive and ugly battle. 
Thus far, it hasn't been. 
Why, in Philadelphia, the same city that saw an ethnic neighborhood scramble desparately to prohibit a public housing project. is Wilson Goode expected to win a one-on-one, black· and-white mayoral race against a Democrat with more name recognition and charisma than Washington's toe -with more than one­third of the city's white vote? 
Goode, a sharecropper's son and a graduate of the t:mvcrsity of Pennsylvania's Wharton School possesses a cool managerial air. He was the city's managing director during the ad­ministration of outgoing Mayor William (;reen. who decided not to seek reelection. l'nlikc Washington. whose bombast has alienated much of Chicago, Goode has 
preferred not to turn his campaign into a black people's crusade. The blacks of Philadelphia are, of course, proud of Goode and will vote for him. But he has not accentuated the racial aspect of the campaign to ensure the black vote at the expense of the white vote. 
On the other hand, Washington has warned of a "race war" that might turn "bitter, evil, angry" ifhe is not elected. And, on the night of his primary win, which was aided by six per­cent ofthe votes ofwhite Chicagoans, the Rev. jesse Jackson was at the podium of Washing­ton's election night headquarters saying, "We want it all, we want it all." 
It. is that kind of rhetoric which has frightened the white, working-class voters of Chicago's Northwest and Southwest sides into supporting a Republican candidate (for many, for the first time in their lives). 
And it is that kind of rhetoric which Goode has avoided. While Goode has not taken the · black vote for granted, his campaign is in­trigued by the number 19. That is the highest percentage of white votes a black mayoral candidate has ever received in a predominate· ly white northern city. Goode sh(iuld pass that number with case. 
As a candidate, Goode has none ofWashing­ton's dynamism or passion on the campaign trail. He doesn't seem to need it. With his black power base activated, he has decided to go after the votes of white Philadelphians, to be elected mayor by all the city's people. 
He wears three-piece suits and a serious ex­pression. He is a deacon at his church, a hard worker, a former chairman of the Pennsylva­nia Public litility Commission and thoroughly professional. 
In that respect, he is much like the white voters who will cast their votes for Goode next month. Like many northern cities, and like Chicago, Philadelphia is a city once de­pendent on industry which is developing a service-based economy. The transtilrmation has hrought a young, white-collar, predominately white professional class into the city. That group tends to be liberal and, more importantly, unthreatened by a black candidate for mayor. 
As a professional and a Wharton graduate, Goode is a look at the future for black can­didates for public office. Even today, his low­key, intelligent campaign has shone in contrast to Washington's confrontational one. 
Because of Washington's style, Epton has been allowed to raise his chances tor mayor on the color of his opponent's skin. The "race issue" in Philadelphia has been defused by Goode's cool. 
When Rizzo mused last week that he wished that both he and Goode were American Indians so that race was not an issue and in another moment vowed not to let Goode get a "free ride," Goode refused to respond to the innuendo. Rizzo held out the fencing sword ofracial politics for Goode, and Goode turned down the offer. 
Washington, however, has not been as placid. When he went to St. Pascal Catholic Church on Chicago's Northwest side on Palm Sunday to find a jeering and booing crowd of about 150 whites waving Epton placards, he tried to pin the blame for the racist demonstration on Epton. Last week. Washing· ton's advertising people put together a com­mercial using videotape of the incident. It was never released because WBB M would not per· mit the Washington organization to use its news footage. 
What is unfortunate about the Chicago election is that Washington probably deserves to lose tomorrow, because of the utter mis· management of his campaign, while Epton probably doesn't deserve to win, because he wouldn't have a chance under normal cir· cumstamces. But Washington, until very late­ly, has failed to reach out to the 60 percent of the electorate which is white -and Epton may win tomorrow. 
The success of Wilson Goode and the failure of Harold Washington stands not as a tribute to "enlightened Philadelphia" or as an indictment of "racist Chicago." It does prove, however, that a black candidate can be the mayor of all the people in a predominately white city, if he just makes an effort. And that would be a tribute. 

'1 ~"w ADREAM... ' 

What's the payoff for being room picky? 
Now that less pressing matters of worldwide importance have passed, the minds and political influence of thousands of young Domers are free to decide the future destiny of Notre Dame. Not by voting tor nuclear freezes, boycotts, or future hall janitors, but hy exercising that most sacred of student privileges -room picks. 
Keith Picher 
Short of Profundity 
The murmurring has already begun. "Hey, have you told your roommate you're planning to stab him in the back?" one person asks. "No, I thought I'd leave the pleasure to you," the other responds. Meanwhile freshmen won­der, "What's a room pick?" 
ll.ooms used to be. and in some places still arc, awarded on the basis of GPA (as if 4.0's needed any more incentive to study. ) People with high GPA's have enough going for them already: why give them good rooms? In fact, those blow-offs who need big rooms for weekend guzzle-parties would inevitably get the worst picks under such a system. 
Perhaps some ingenious thinker could develoP. an alternative scheme. Gross assets, most influential father, best drinker, most religious? No, none of these methods are in­herently fair. Instead, most dorms use a supposed "random" selection process where those involved can use any criterion veiled by the guise ofstatistical significance. 
Regardless of the method, the same rooms always seem to go first. Rooms located in the most remote nooks and crannies disappear first not because they're. quite coincidentally, furthest from the RA's and staff but because they're "conveniently located." People never pick rooms with showers, fireplaces, and swimming pools for their modern con­veniences, but rather for thdr sp.tciousness and good looks. And why is it that the turret rooms in Sorin always go before those which measure two by ten by thirty-five? Maybe nobody really believes that the first shall be last when it comes to room picks. 
The politicking and bargaining which goes on prior to room selection is excellent practice for future politicians, lawyers, and businesspeople. "I'll sell you my six-level, earthquake-tested, revolving loft with an op­tional escalator if you'll pass up Room -i67 in the third round," a hopeful salesman pleads. "No thanks. I've already been offered a watcrbed and an appliance to be named later. But I'd consider it if you'd get me a letter of recommendation from that prof you're such good friends with." 
Perhaps a new method could simplify mat­ters. Considering the popularity of screw­your-roommates, maybe the person with the top room pick could have the option of screwing-over his worst enemy. An auction might prove superior. Everyone could enjoy 
the pleasure of open bidding while  raising  
money tor a worthy charity.  
A  scicntitk  approach  seems  most  

reason.tblc. First, all undergraduates would be tested tiJr deepness of sleep and ahilitv to withstand heat and cold. Deep sleepers would be located in those rooms whose pipes hanged the most at tour o'clock in the morn­ing, and cold-blooded people would be placed in rooms with broken thermostats. 
Maybe we could even let the Registrar's Office select our roommates based on schedules. No longer would early-bird roommates wake others with gargling, brush­ing, studying, spraying, or squirting. 
We can only hope that the same charity so widespread on t:-tis campus won't disappear when something as mundane as room picks pops up. 

Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief. ..........................David Dziedzic Saint Mary's Editor...............Anne Monastyrski 
Box Q, Notre Dame, LV 46556 
Managing Editor ....................Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor............................ Sarah Hamilton 
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Production/Graphics ...........joseph Musumeci 
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower 
curately and a~ objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Department Managers
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, JJusiness Manager ....... ................Dantel <fHare Circulation Manager...................... Mark Miotto and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
Advertising Manager..... ,_.···:············Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 


--S"OWCA~S~E~~~Mond~ay,Apr~il11,1~983~page~6 
Do I henr ... ? 
T
he coming ofspringat Georgetown University means it's time for a bizarre annual ritual known as the Senior Auction. No, the Senior Auction is not the Placement Bureau's unique method of avoiding the bothersome interview process and allowing slave­driving companies to openly bid (or not bid) on the services of prospective employees although the possibilities ofthis kind ofauc­tion are indeed interesting to consider. (He's five foot ten, he's a marketing major, he has a 3.1 GPA, he's from Peoria, Illinois, his name isJohn Q. Senior. Do I hear 515,000?) Where were we now...Oh yeah, the Senior Auction is a fun little way the seniors at · Georgetown raise a bit ofmoney-S30,000 this year-to buy a k~g or two for senior week. 
Here's how it works. Various people and organizations donate valued items, novelties, and services to the senior class, who then 
Chtis Ftaset 
featutes 

hold a· gala auction/party at which the donations are offered to the 
highest bidder. 
The event is a popular tradition at Georgetown and both bidding and drinking arc strongly encouraged for participants and spectators alike during the three-hour extravaganza. (Andre champagne is hawked at S5 a pop for those who wish to celebrate their purchases or mourn their losses. ) Perhaps this explains why the SI 00 bill which was offered for sale to open thb year's action sold for a full 
s110. Yet that may have been a bargain compared to some ofthe ex­orbitant prices over-entusiastic hidders paid for some items. For in­stance, Pat Ewing·~ t-shirt, that gray, grimy, sweaty thing he wear~ under his basketball uniform, sold ti>r S2')0. And a full-page picture in the yearbook taken with a certain statue went to ten spirited fel­lows for s:oo. That might not seem too had except for the fact that it's well-known that anyone can buy a full-page in the yearbook for only S300 and put any picture they want on it. 
Selling people in the form ofdates is another popular item at the Georgetown Senior Auction. Again thi~ may appear innocuous enough -something akin to the "slave sales" we here at Notre Dame have during An Tostal. But some ~ticky situations can arise he­cause it is a vote bv the ~eniors that determines the l'Olunteers to be auctioned off and .you're not exactly allowed to turn down the 
dubious honor. Thus the situation occured where some fun-loving, inebriated. and rather obnoxious bidders persisted in gleefully raising the ante for a certain well-proportioned female while an irate boyfriend was ti>rced to dig deep into hb pockets in order to keep his honor (not to mention hers). But heck, what's S450 between friends anyway? 
On one hand, you're probably thinking that our counterparts at Georgetown are...well, stupid tor paying such extravagant prices for questionable merchandise. On the other hand, you you may also think that the whole thing sounds like a good ole college time. There may even be a light bulb flashing over your head as you envision a Senior Auction right here under the Golden Dome. But betorc you knock down your hall president's door with this novel idea. keep in mind that the Administration would hardly go for anything whose end purpose was to give the seniors 30,000 bucks with which to em­merse themselves in alcohol during Senior Week. Still, as a charity event during An Tostal or maybe Mardi Gras...Well, it'll probably never happen but that doesn't mean we can't consider a few of the fun things that could be auctioned. 
How about a picture in the yearbook with Fr. Hesburgh? Not in­terested you say? Well just think of the stories );Ou could tell your friends twenty years from now when you whip out the old yearbook at a cocktail party. "Oh yeah, here's a little shot of me and Ted..." 
You say you want at-shirt? Okay, let's auction off one ofGerry Faust's. It might not be one ofthe most famous t-shirts in sport, but it would fit most of us better than Mr. Ewing's. 
Does Digger Phelps eat quiche? For the right price, some lucky student(s) could t1nd out if we auctioned off a "dinner at Digger's." That even has kind ofa nice ring to it. 
Freshman would really go for a full-prooffake ID tor Senior barand a parietal-breaking pass is worth quite a bit in any body's book. Even better than auctioning offdates would be to auction offsenior bas­
I ketball players for bookstore competition. (You guys wouldn't mind 
i would you?)/ might even throw in a bid or two to haveJohn Paxson
I make my team look respectable. We could auction off football tickets, choice rooms in dorms, how about a reserved barstool in Corby's? Think ofthe fun. the excite­
I ment, the wild. reckless bidding. Some bricks from the old fieldhouse might be a popular item. What's that? You say you can ~till grab one free ofcharge? Weill suppose. but there's no fun in that. Do I hear $10? 

'ffiQgic circle' s 
" Hey Dad, how come the Globetrotters aren't playing the Bullets?" "If the Globetrotters played the Bullets, who would win?" 
"Are the Washington Generals in 
Will Hate featutes 
the NBA?" 
Those were among the many questions Iasked my father when he took me to see the Harlem Globetrotters in Baltimore so many years ago. Even though the setting was ditierent after some twelve years, you could practically hear the naive kids asking the same kind of questions in the ACC Saturday night. 
If it is true that "Some things never change," then the Harlem Globetrotters arc certainly one of those things. Before a crowd ofover 8000. the Trotters put on a magical display ofbaskethall tricks, gag~. and pranks for which they arc world­famous. 
The team has entertained nearly 100 million people in I01 countries over the years while traveling more than ~.ooo,ooo miles around the 

Pattick mulligan symposium pteview 
T 
riumph, my Britain, thou hast one to show To wbom all scenes ofEumpe homage owe He was not ofa11 age, but for all time! 
Ben Johnson once said this in praise of his contem­porary, William Shakespeare. An endorsement of Johnson's assessment seems to he in order this week as the Shakespeare Club sponsors a series of events in commemoration ofthe Bard's tour-hundred-nineteenth birthday. Professor James Robinson, self-proclaimed "King" of the club. deems the Shakespeare Symposium 
"a tribute to the fact that Shakespeare is still alive." The festival opens tonight with a showingofa new film version ofThe Tempest and concludes Wednesday with a lecture special guest speaker David Bevington, Professor of English at the University ofChicago. In he· tween are scheduled an ar­ray ofactivities ranging from student papers to musical and theatrical perfor­mances. Unquestionably, the "medley of marvels" which comprises the festival will provide ample oppor­tunities tor the Notre Dame community to rediscover 
the literary splendot of the "Master Imaginer." 
Robinson lauds the "variety of involvement" as evidence of Notre Dame's traditional interest in Shakespeare. Indeed, the Shakespeare Club was 
founded last year in order to give that interest a more public voice. The club has since sponsored film showings. dramatic readings, the widely ac­claimed "Shakespeare Son­
net Contest," and· even a 
costume party ofsorts. The 
Shakespeare Symposium is 
perhaps their most am­
bitious undertaking thu~ far. "King" Robinson hopes stu­dents will be attracted by the multiformity ofac­
..---------------------.. comedy. Tbe London Times
called the production "the 
. kespeate 
most truly spectacular

ShQ
. · .... · •..·•·. .. • . British film in years." Take 
SympQ.slum Schedule tha~~;:~~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~: 
MONDAY. APRIL 11, 7& 9p.m., ENOINEERINO AUD. 
"The Tempest" • a new Brilish n; mversion of Shakespeare's play dire.cted by Derek Jarm a I) 
TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 4:1-5p.m.• MEMORIAL LIBRARY LOUNGE 
papers byT~resa Oi Pasqu~le: "The telling of Dreams: (;omm~mication and Its Abusdn Richlir<l ill" and ParticiaQuat!rin: "Henl-y
. V and tl¢ Pa!:liament<;>f Heaven" 
TUESl)AY,APRIL l2, 8 p.m., M.EMORlA.LLIBRARYAUD. 

Pr~t:!~igaul I,Uthbul'I\i ~'ln Oth.erTerm~: 
1arJ!l<lll's~Te!l1j;lest'" 
Discussion Pan~!, thePlay and the Film: Karen Oondanville and Bre!11'4n Murphy. Sam Sherrill , Katie Conboy and Melita SChaum 
After the Discussion, Ubrary Lounge: Refresh­ments, and SOnl!li from Shakespeare featur­ing Joe Dolan and kevin Finney, assisted by Paul Clay and Susan Gosliick ' 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13,3:30 p.m .• HAYEs-HEALY AUD. " 
•Whl)'s:the Real Fool Here" -a performa.JICC l)r$doot<d'""ool"~nes from Shuespeare 
·fi*JtiriligJI:'iti l)Qian and Kevin Finney, IISSiSieil by .Paul Clay an4 Su.~ Oosdlct 
a paper byJudy Zaccaria: Condemned Into Everlasting R\!delnJ)lion': tMS.tiric Fall into Tra.nsa:ndena: in 'The Ttm{leStm 
WEDNESPA Y. APRIL 13, 7:30p.m., 122HAYES-HEALY AU£>. 
Ouest Speaker David Jkvingtw, Professorof Bngliah.. Ulliw:rsity ofCbkago: "Maimed Rita: ~Ccml\onY in 'Hamlelm 
tivitics. "The festival is unique in that there is such a variety ofinvolvement and participation." 
Herewith is a brief preview of some festival high­lights: • A new cinematic treatment of The Tempest directed by Derek Jarman will be shown tonight in the Engineering Auditorium at 7 and 9 p.m. Surprisingly, there are few t1lm versions of the play in existence. Jar­man, however, has transferred Tbe Tempest to the silver screen by adding a touch of the Fellini-esque to the world. They are one of the few wholesome traditions that are pure­ly American. 
For the record, they also beat the Washington Generals, 98-80, to im­prove upon their lifetime .980 win­
ning percentage. But then again. who would want to beat these guys? 
This is the 57th edition ofthe timeless Trotters, yet the show remains the same. It all begins with the famed "Magic Circle" where the players show their awesome yet 
comedic passing talents at the mid· court circle to the tune of their longtime theme song, "Sweet Geor­gia Brown." The song, known to most as "The Globetrotters Song," rivals the "Notre Dame Victory March" as one of tht: most recog­nizable melodies around the world. 
While Meadowlark Lemon has gone astray for private endeavors and Curly Neal travel~ with the ~quad only some of the time, the team remains a solid entertainment act for all ages. 
The bard and n new 'Tempest' 
(see the accompanying calendar). Come listen to what your fellow scholars have to say about such plays as "Richard Ill." "Henry V," and ofcourse "The Tern-
est." 
•on Wednesday night at 7:30pm David Bevington will deliver a lecture at the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. The subject is "Maimed Rites: Interrupted Ceremony in Hamlet" and is described by Bevington as "a discussion on the analysis ofstage movement, gesture. stage space etc. as a valid theatrical language, and how one interprets it." Professor Bevington has edited anum­ber ofcritical texts dealing with Shakespeare, including the standard Complete Works a_(Shakespeare. He has also served as President of the Shakespeare Associa­tion of America. The Shakespeare Symposium is a happening for the Notre Dame community. Don't pass up the chance to par­
ticipate in this gala event ­intellectual ~atisfaction is guarantet·d. 


ThC2 ObsC2rVC2r FC2aturC2s SC2ction 
Monday, April 11, 1983 -page 7 
.--'ft.., 
tops globettot to thtill ND 
The most famous of those who performed Saturday is Hubert "Geese" Ausbie. He has taken over the reigns of Lemon as the vocal leader of the team. 
It did not take Ausbie long to get started. During the player introduc· tions, he found he was one ofthe last two Globetrotters to be introduced and wanted to make sure he would not be last. This meant a trip to the scorer's table to heckle PA An­nouncerJeffJeffers. After Ausbie 
waved to the crowd as Jeffers gave 
the height and weight of the next 
player, Ausbie threatened to walk off 
the court as the name "Dallas 
Thornton" was announced. 
Ausbie is now the head clown. He 
is the one who goes up to the heavy­
set black referee and gives a loud Fat 
Albert-style "Hey, Hey. Hey!!" He is 
the one who tickles opponents' rear 
ends as they try to shoot free throws. 
He is the one who borrows fans' 
cameras, asks the referee to pose, 
and then takes a pictun: of himself. 
The children in the crowd abo 
" Jtook this family and subjected 
them to the two greatest catastrophes which man can suffer -flood and tire, that's all," stated William Faulkner. That is exactly what he does to the Bundrens, a poor, farming family, in this play, set 
in the old South. The plot unfolds to 
reveal the values ofeach character, 
centering on the family, and God; 
the struggle and conflict for the sake 
Ftank Wosc.zyna 
theatte teview 

ofhard-set values emerges as the 
theme of this work. William 
Faulkner's drama is marked by fine charaterization, realism. and rhetoric, and is well-presented by · the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's ReJdc.:r~· Theatre. 
In ti,t: Readers' Theatre, there is no physical interaction between the characters, and the costumed actors and actresses act directly to the audience. providing an ideal way to present this play's action-tilled plot. The set ofthis rich ethnic or regional play is simple: a few stools, two coffin-shaped lecterns, a small elevated stage for the dying Addie Bundren, and a backdrop for the projected names, a Tennessee Wil­liams device, used efft'c.:tively in this production. 
The two act play opens with the sickness and death ofthe mother. Addie, and the making of the coffin. Dreamy reflectiom and paranoia saw for the first time some of the 
Globetrotters' oldest tricks such as 
the "Ball Substitution Trick" and the "Bucket-of-Water Trick." The latter is one of the oldest gags performed by the group. Fans fearing they will be hit by a bucket ofwater are ac­tually drenched by mere confetti. This time, however, a child was so afraid that he ran with Globetrotter "Gator" Rivers clear around the arena in absolute terror. 
The jumping ability of Billy Ray 
Hobley. the dunking acrobatics of 7­1 Robert "Baby Face" Paige, and the dribbling act popularized by former Trotter Marcus Haynes and per­formed superbly by Rivers. also delighted the crowd. 
But above all. the Globetrotters 
were spontaneous. For instance, 
Ausbie noticed a TV camera and 
went up to it and started waving. He 
then grabbed a woman returning to 
her seat with three cartons of pop­
corn and had her wave at the 
camera, only to have her drop a car­
ton all over the floor. With that. 
mix, and match with the mellow, Southern tone ofthe play, effectively carried out by the cast. The ever­practical father, Anse Bundren, starts the family on its mission: the moving ofthe mother's body to jef­ferson, Mississippi, corresponding with her request that she be buried in her hometown. In this play, rid­den with crisis, jewel Bundren, the mother's favorite child. is sharply contrasted with the intellectual and physical blankness of the other living characters. The action ofthe play is a funnel style. where the long­repressed feelings come to a head to formulate the contlict, and each character's ego-centrism emerges. "I do the best I can" Anse, a con­
tradictory Christian, wants false teeth "to eat God's vittles." Cash Bundren, the tough and slow son, loses himself in technical processes: "It ain't balanced right." Psychotic Darl, jealous ofjewel, tries to dispose of the body and the mission. The "upright and Christian" Cora Tull and Reverend Whitfield fancy themselves superior and pray for the supposedly lost Addie. Vardaman, a younger son, refreshes the plot with keen observations; and Dewey Dell Bundren and the other~ satellite in the play, in functionally narrative roles. 
In a twisting plot, Jewel proves to be the man ofaction at both the crossing of the ford of the tlooded river and the saving ofthe body from the burning barn. As the characters stumble around in a maze of luck, tradition, Christian ethics, and poverty, Addie holts out her Ausbie bolted offthe court, bought three more cartons of popcorn, and then ran them back to the lady who 
was now nearly in the ACC bleac­
hers. All this took place while the 
game went on. 
The team's involvement with the crowd has been one of their trademarks and Saturday was no ex­ception as the Globetrotters danced and frolicked for over two hours. 
It is easy to get excited when N.C. 
State wins the NCAA title on a last 
second shot. It also isn't hard to ap­
preciate the grace ofaJulius Erving 
or the natural talent ofa Larry Bird. 
But as a simple pleasure, the 
Globetrotters remain at the top in 
entertaining basketbalL Their act 
reminds basketball fans and players 
alike that the games are just meant 
for fun. 
The Harlem Globetrotter~. An 
American institution and a family 
tradition. 
Oh, and by the way, what would 
happen if the Harlem Globetrotters 
played Notre Dame? 
message in the second act -people are too wrapped up in their values and do not live -"The reason for living is getting ready to stay dead a long time." She reveals that, as the family grew, she sacrificed herselfto her husband and children. There is no love, and the simple life offar­mers is violent and complex be­cause ofstubbornly held values. This is made explicit through confronta­tions within the family and with society, the townsfolk. It is only those who question the values that see clearly. As the perceptiveJewel, a disciple of Addie, clearly states, "If there is a God, what the hell is he for?" As the play closes, the simple folk return to "normal." drowning in their ways, Faulkner leaving us to despair. 
The roles in the production arc well-cast, with four exceptional per­formances. Jeb Cashin plays a stern, practical Anse, the leader of the family. David Barber delivers a tine Vardaman Bundren. ;ts doJoe Musumeci and \1 ike O'Keefe as Cash and Jewel Bundren. respectively. Annejanairo'and Robert Hall turn in good performances with their slow, drawling, Southern characters. Robin Brown, as Addie Bundren, comes across as a bit too intelligent and largely un-Southern. but other­wise good, and Rick Lechowich's Darl Bundren was a bit too hyper­active with slightly irregular voice inflection, even tor his role as a paranoid. The Readers' Theatre docs a tine job in presenting this difficult work of Faulkner, with a simple clarity that delivers the theme with 
force. 
... . ,.. 
.. . 

As echoes fade 
W 
henever I needed to take a good look at myseu· and evaluate the progress of my life, I went to visit him. Something about his cold understanding of the subtlest undertones in my thoughts al­ways helped me bring those undertones into harmony. 
I suppose !liked him because he was like me in many ways. We shared an outlook on life. We were both creatures ofhabit who could be found in the same places at the same times doing the same things day after day. We even had the s;~me smile. 
But the ways in which we differed perhaps made him more valuable, even admirable. He never spoke unkindly ofanyone, al­though he might have been dangerous if looks could kilL 
He never worried much about money. His quarters were sparsely furnished-little better than an outhouse, really -but he was com­fortable that way, and he never wished for anything better. 
Btuce Oakley 
out on a limb 

Many times, lost in the middle of the darkness ofdepression, I 
sought his company -and his stability -to help me ponder the 
human condition. 
One night not long ago, wandering aimlessly in such a psychologi­
cal darkness, I looked to him for help. 
I 

I tound him in the same old piace, doing the same old things. He 
flashed that same old smile, as if to say that he understood why I had 
come. 
At tlrst reassured by this apparent casual acceptance once again of 
the role ofsounding bored, I started my litany of woe. The refrain 
was one we had explored betore: life was an unfortunate series ofun­
happy accidents all intended to leave me alone and broken. 
!listed for him the string ofevents that l took to be evidence of a sort ofcosmic opposition to my well-being. 
Every minor pain or annoyance became an indicator of the con­trarines~ of the universe. Bump~ and bruises that had gone un­noticed at their occurrence suddenly took on the semblance ofcruel and outrageous wounds, mainly because no one offered sympathy during my quiet suffering. 
I felt particularly foolish as his look demanded that Iacknowledge my stupidity: clearly no one could ease hurts I kept hidden from view. 
Part of his charm was that he could usually force me to recognize my own idiocy. 
This night, that charm was more like salt thrown on an open cut. I was feeling particularly ~orry for myself and didn't need to he reminded that self-pity is perhaps the most useless and unjustifiable ofemotions. Trapped by his recognition ofmy fool ish seIf-pity, I only became more insistent, more desperate. 
I protested that nobody cared about the pain I didn't hide, either. 
I spoke ofwomen I had loved and lost years before; of lo~ses that grew with the years and of memories that displaced dreams. I spoke offriends who had faded into a distance greater than the miles that separated us. 
His scowl spoke volumes. 
After seeking him out at an unthinkable hour. I had looked him in the eye and told him nobody cared about me. His disapproving frown made me feel distinctly like a schoolboy who had been rapped on th~ knuckles tor failing to correctly add one and one. 
But like a naughty schoolboy who will not learn hi~ lesson. I lashed out at my teacher. 
"I hate you!" l screamed. "Maybe it is stupid to stand here and say 
no one cares, but that's the way I feel. It doesn't hurt any less because 
it's stupid!" 
He looked at me as an understanding old master looks at his young apprentice, but I saw only a cold, detestable superiority reflected in his eyes. 
!lashed out again, from the depths ofa primeval desperation. 
"I'm lonely. can't you understand?" I cried. "No one's there when I'm happy! Who shares my pains? You? I tell you I'm hurt, and you smile! Can't you feel pain?" 
And before the echoes died in the room, I struck out with clenched fist and unbridled fury. I hit him hard, square on the shoul­der. 
He split into a thousand insignificant personalities ofglass as my bathroom mirror crumbled to the tloor. Moments later, standing over the sink and washing the blood from my hand, I wondered if anyone would ever pick up the pieces. 

IS hol~lnq a m€€tlnq ~OR all Staj:~ WRitERS an~ all thOS€ lnt€R€St€~ In WRitlnq monay, apRilll at 7 p.m. on th€ 3Rb nooR 0~ la(:oRtUn€ 



The Observer Monday, April 11, 1983 -page 8 
ranCI. · 
Starts Tuesday, April 12 at 7 a.m. ..empo Fashions hasarrivedin South Bend! Shop our Grand Opening Sale at6309 University 
• Commons Center in Mishawaka, across from University Park Mall. Tempo is the newest, most exciting concept in Junior and Misses fashions at everyday savings of 30-6C1'/o off specialty and department store prices. Hurry in now to our Grand Opening Sale and save even more! 

Enjoy these suits now and right on through the summer! 
We show just three styles from our tremendous Junior and Misses collection. Come see the newest novelty designs as well as traditional classic looks. Choose your's from the freshest array of crisp chinos, textured linen-like weaves, nubby silk blends andmore. Allare beautifully tailored for a betterfit andlonger wear. Even the matchihg skirts are fully lined. Huny in and see all the styles to suit you! Values to $90 
Cucumber 

Fun Tops Only here will you find tops for fun, tops for fashion, tops for only $4! Wear them now in short sleeve solids, 
$4 
stripes and perky prints. Regular to $11 
Novelty & Sport 
Shorts Long shorts, short shorts, bright shorts, white shorts...we have them all in styles to beat the heat! Team up with 
$4 
our refreshing colors and swnmer styles. Elsewhere to $13 
Butterscotch 

POlO Tops Get set for summer with our own exclusive polo tops at only $4 each! We have a super variety of short 
$4 
sleeve stripes in carefree poly/cotton. Regular to $14 
Natural Cotton 

Tops Discover our easy going, spirited tops in natura1100~1o cotton. We have short sleeve solids and watercolor stripes in many 
$6 
\ 
\ 


the summer...and beyond! Our stripes, prints, solids and tip-<lye 
trims are spectacular. Regular to $17 
James Cox 
ShirtS If you like shirls with the added softness of lace 
edging and embroidery trims, then hurry in and see our new short 
sleeve collection! Regular to $20 
Bar Harbor 
Knit Dresses The first thing you'll notice are the colors...our cool solid, print and tip-<lye trim dresses are as pretty as a summer day! Regular to $28 


Jean Phillippe Dressier Blouses This season's 
$10 blouses call for fancy details! We have them here in our own special collection of ruffles, bow ties and more. Regular to $30 
Junior & Misses 
Blazers These fully lined blazers are a wardrobe essential! Choose from styles with savvy, colors that bloom and textures with flair. Elsewhere to $65 
French Poplin 
Raincoats Step into the rain and shine! Our Misses and Petites collection features fully lined single and double breasted styles in sunny colors. Elsewhere to $80 


exciting styles! Elsewhere to $16 
Huny in while limited sale quantities last 



6309 UNIVERSJTY COMMONS CENTER/ Stale Rd 23, Mishawaka -South Bend (across from University Park Mall) 


Sports Brie_b 
By The Obse~l'er and The Associated Press 
An Tostal Golf Tournament signups will be 
tomorrow from 6 to H p.m. on the main tloor of Lafortune. Two­person teams will sign up for tee times for the nine-hole scramble tourney which will be held Tuuesday ofAn Tostal. -The Obserl'er 
An Tostal Ultimate Frisbeesignups will be held 
today from ~to S p.m. in the South Alcove of Lafortune. Team cap­
tains should come prepared with a team name and a roster ofsix, but 
no more than 10 member:-. Captains should also bring a S3 registra­
tion fee. The tournament will start later this week. -The Observer 
The Midwest Catholic Championship 
track meet. held over the weekend at Notre Dame, \Vas forced into the ACC's North Dome as Saturday's weather deteriorated, but little bothered Notre Dame a~ the Irish won 12 of the 19 events and captured the overall team title. Notre Dame compiled 1-12 points to easily outdistance the rest of the six-team field. Vlarquette finished second with H6 points. The highlight of the meet wa~ :'>lotre Dame's Chuck Con~table broke his own indoor record by clearingseven feet even to win the high jump. More details will appear tomorrow. ­
The Obserz•er 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team demolished 
Midwest Lacrosse Association rival, Mount Union College, 28--t, on 
Saturday, setting a team scoring record in ·the process. Fifteen dif­
ferent players scored for the Irish who held whopping advantages in 
almost every statistical category. joe Franklin led the charge with · five goals and an assist, while Tom Grote contributed two goals and 
four assists. The victory brings the Irish overall record to :3-4 and the 
MLA record to 2-1. More details about the game and the tough 
schedule that thhe Irish will face in the next two weeks will appear 
in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
Noel O'Sullivan'S.golf team finished the first round of the Indianapolis Invitatonal tournament in second place in the I 0­team tourney. Ball State led the competition in the first round with a total of 376. Notre Dame was second with 392. Dave Pangraze was the top Irish golfer entering today's final round at the Eagle Creek Golf Course. He had a four-over-par 76. john O'Donovan was right behind with a 77. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's softball official opener was 
rained out for the fourth time Saturday as the Belles did not play their scheduled match with Earlham. SMC will open tomorrow with a game against Grace College. -The Obserz•er 
Tom Fallon's men's tennis team raised its overall record to 1..,-H while gaining some much needed confidence before another difficult week ofBig Ten competition this weekend. Fallon's squad traveled to Northern lllinois Friday to battle Northern Illinois, DePaul and Wisconsin at Oshkosh. ND beat DePaul, 6-0, Wisconsin­Oshkosh 6-0, Northern lllinois, S-2. Yesterday, the Irish traveled to Valparaise where they clipped the Crusaders, 9-0. More details willI appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Obsen•er 
continued/rom page 12 
rival to the ball. The result was an incompletion and a dazed Schiro. 
Other reserves had their mo­ments as well. Wally Kleine turned in a fine show, as did Joe Bars and Tim Marshall. 
The first-string defense was also a party to the hitting barrage. Former Moeller High School teammates Rick Naylor and Mike Larkin played their usual steady game~. The defensive front of Mike Golic, Eric Dorsey,jon Autry, and Greg Dingens had a few lapses, but on the whole were dominating. 
In the secondary. "hit man" joe johnson played spirited football as his aggressive style of play an­tagonized the receivers and tight ends. Seniors Chris Brown and Stacey Toran looked good as well. 
On offense, first-string quarter­back Blair Kiel was 8-for-13, good for 87 yards. His longest completion of the day was to joe Howard -a 26-yard lob along the sideline. Kiel also threw an eight-yard TO pass to Mike Haywood on a roll-out to the quarterback's right side. Later in the second quarter, Kiel rolled out right again, but this time kept the ball and scampered into the end zone from six yards out. 
But the best offensive perfor­
mance  was  Allen  Pinkett's.  The  
sophomore  got  to  the  hole  very  
quickly.  establishing  himself  as  a  

threat to break a big run every time he was handed the ball. The sloppy turfdid not slow him down on Satur­day as he rushed for 6S yards on 18 carries -an achievement against the Notre Dame defenses. 
Most ofthe time, Pinkett and Mark Brooks ran through holes provided by the interior of the lin-e, center Mike Kelley. and guards Neil Maune and Tim Scannell ~ all three of whom had tine afternoons. 
Kicker Mike johnston's t1eld goal attempt from -i I yards out was true, but a botched snap· resulted in a poor kick from S~ yards. Hal Von Wyl was 0-tor-2 in the t1eld goal department, missing from the ~6­and -lS-yard lines. 
"(It was a) real good scrimmage. 
Monday, April 11, 1983 -page 9 
• • • Hitting 
They made lots of mistakes, but there was good hitting," said Faust, who seemed pleased after the ses­sion. "I liked the hitting, the inten­sity, and the enthusiasm." 
IRISH ITEMS -Tony Furjanic broke four fingers when his hand got caught in a player's equipment during Friday's practice. The hand was operated on and Furjanic's hand is now in a sling ... Hurt in Friday's 
practice session were sophomore cornerback Pat Ballage (ankle sprain), junior center Robbie Fin negan (leg) and sophomore walk-on offensive tackle Karl Roesler (knee) .. Over 400 coaches in for a clinic with the Irish staff crowded the weekend's drills . . . Practices this week are Monday, Wednesday, and Friday ... There will be a closed scrimmage next Saturday. 
• • • Entrance 
continuedfrompage 12 
fith hit seven of I 1 to spur seeded 
Play at Your Own Risk over Ariel 
Sharon ... 21-..,_ Nine points were 
added by football teammates john 
Mosley and john Sweeney. 
Notre Dame soccer coach Rich 
Hunter directed his team, Rich Hun­
ter and the Polish Nationals, to 21­
1~ win over Team #266 and had a .lot offun doing so. 
"The good news is that we won," 
said Hunter afterward, "and the bad 
news is that we have to play again." 
Still Hunter mentioned that he ap­
preciated some of his players asking 
him to play with them. 
Although it was supposedlv the 
first time that he had played b;sket­
ball since 196H, Hunter hit on two of 
nine shots. One of those, a bomb 
from the top of the key, ignited the 
crowd and later left Hunter compar­
ing it to the old two-handed Bob 
Cousy shot. 
Someone Hunter could take 
shooting lessons from, namely Irish 
assi-stant basketball coach John 
Shumate who has also played in the 
NBA, took to the Stepan Courts yes­
terday. too. Shumate's team, John 
Shoe and the Sneakers. whipped 
Bobo, Jake ... by a 2 1-..., score. 
Wrestler john Krug and his bas­
ketball manager brother Joe were a 
combined 0-for-1 ~ from the tleld as 
Krug Syndrome fell to Team # 1-t9 
by a disasterous 21-S count. joe 
mi~~ed one more than his younger 
brother, t<>r the record. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -Today's 
best show appears to be Double Decker Oreo Cookie against Captain Wage and the Sleepwalkers at 6:1 S on Stepan I. Most everyone in volved with the tournament feels that Double Decker is the team to beat, mainly.because it is made up of Bill Varner, Mansel Carter, Stace) Toran, Casey Newell, who was Firs Team Bookstorelast year, as well as 
Pete Smith ... Commissioner Dave Dziedzic would like to remind everyone that the schedule to be followed is the one received at the captain's meeting, and not the one printed in The Obserl•t!r . 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Today's Games 

SMC1 Trt-Beta Bombers vs Real Farley Women Don t L1ve m Stanford (4) We re Not B1g. We re Nor vs McCandless Mashers (4 45) Cameras vs· Bear n (5 30) Ballhandlers vs Mau·,e Palleles (6 15) 
SMC2 

Ftve Orphans vs. Mark and His Sktbbolettes (4) Four Elves and the Keebler Cookte Tree vs Ftve Chicks Who D1g Bobo ( 4 45) Double Trouble Plus Three vs 71 (5 30) 
...

Hopeless -Hoopers vs The French Connec­lion (615) 
SMCJ MX TV Crew vs Tne Blow Offs (4) Out to Embarrass Our Brothers vs Rudy Kaplensky s Athlelic Qu,nlel (4 45) House Coal Husllers vs Ch1ppendates (5 30) Real Women Do Shoot Hoops vs Boom Boom s Bombers (6 15) 
SMC4 Pretenders vs The G·Spots (4) We Don·t Kneel vs Fluid Fun (4 45) R1m Wreckers vs Entropy (5 30) Diehards vs. Negt1gence (6 15) 
The Observer wtll accept classrlteds Mon­day through Frtday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p m However. classrlteds to appear tn the next rssue must be recerved by 3 p.m. the busrness day pnor to rnsertron. All classllteds must be prepard. 
erther tn person or through the marl. 
Classifieds 
REMEMBER ATTENTION Saint Mary's women: The To all my budd1eson 3N . YEARBOOK SENIOR PORTRAITS! Observer needs you to to speak -call Thank you for taktng care of me while 1 APRIL5-22 239-7471 and ask lor Judy or M1ke was Stck
.__No_T_Ic_Es____JI I,____Fo_R_R_EN_T______Jl IL..-_F_o_R_sA_LE_____J 
9 30-1 AND 2-5 00 Love. SITTINGS TRADITIONAL $5 00 NEED A MOTHERS DAY GIFT SUG­Meg let 4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo all House for sale. Un1vers1ty He1ghts. 3 
CONTEMPORARY$815 GESTION? Buy her Mon,que·s Menues a utilities 1ncluded June or Sept Call 319-bedrooms. $12.000 total Immediate Shots
YOU CAN STILL SIGN UP FOR cookbook of a collectton of contmental 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 32~ R735 Patty Innocence IS that possesston wh1Ch In­
Terms 319-322-8735. Pal YOUR PORTRAIT BY CALLING and onental CUisme wntten by Montque creases 1n value once 11 IS lost239-5183 NOW' Kobayashi of the Notre Dame com­Typmg ALL KINDS 277-8534 ofter 6pm 902 N NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS. 
13 COLOR TV 277-8534 AFTER 6 PLEASE BRING EXACT CHANGE munity. Cookbooks Will be on sale all 
FULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE. Hey Shots
OR PAY BY CHECK THANKS' week 1n the dmtng halls. This IS a 
TYPING. Jackie Boggs. 6<!4-8793 GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON Welcome back Th1ngs can only gel
First class round lrip ticket to 
fundratser sponsored by the Amencan HEAT. $335/MONTH 684-0933 tLOCAL anywhere United flies. You can fly Tomorrow-Lake B. Beastie Burt Day Cancer Soctety better now that you re here CALLi The System
home and to somewhere else (HawaiiI) over the summer for one cheap price. WANTED: He's coming· to a theater near you: Tom 
Take the ftrst step toward a Puhlzer PnzeHOUSE Furnished 1 m: trom campus 4 
Call Leon 6740. bdrm. 2 bath 7 bdrm 2 bath CALL 277­
LOST/FOUND Extenor frame back packs Do you have Marshalek Ugliest Man on Campus Write for THE OBSERVERS one you would ltke to sell? Maybe two or 1983 FEATURES DEPT Monday. April 113461 three? Call Jeb. J1m. or Ed at 8641 Thank there wtll be a rneettng for all those on the you Who s w1de and ugly and we1ghs nearly Features Dept stall and all thOse tn­LOST: 300 WATT KUSTOM FREE RENT · House Sit lor faculty mem­fifty mega-tons? Your only posstble
TICKETS 
terested tn wntmg 3rd floor of LaFortuneAMPLIFIER. REWARD IF RETURNED. ber. summer 319-322-8735 Pat THE AMERICAN DREAM SchOlaStiC IS chotce for UMOC wtll be revealed here IS the place to be Monday at 7 p mDEFINITELY NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
looktng tor talented sentor wnters and soon! 
REPLY TO JAY REIDY 239-7668. 2 bedroom. Furn1shed apt to sublet 4 Wanted GRADUATION TICKETS" W1ll 
photographers who would ltke to get summer Call 284-4429 Pay $$$ Call Debbie 272-9709 After One Mo T•me wants to thank all youpublished tn the upcommg tssue. become Life is very MECHANICAL -It screws Mo s tor your support Only true Mo sLOST GOLD WATCH-WOMEN S On 11 00 tnstantly famous. and ltve happtly ever al­you at every moment 
Tuesday Apnl 5. between 11 15 and would watch f1ve guys lose to two g~rls and 
ter Call the off•ce at 239· 7569 or J,m at a couple sports wnters Thanks tram ne

I. 
12 30 llosl '' ,, e11ner room 119 Hagge:' 
1082 Deadline Tuesday. 12 April HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU. HAPPY MoT1me
WANTED j
Hall Of en route to or 1n C hfle··North BIRTHDAY TO YOU. HAPPY BIRTHDAY d1n1119 nau II you ve tound •t PLEASE call PERSONALS 
THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM COMES TO DEAR KATHY. HAPPY BIRHTDAY TO Leanne at # 7753 or #8983 Reward of­~eed someone capable ot ~ranslat1ng 
FIREBREAKS FIREBREAKS NOTRE DAME!!! The Notre Dame Stu­YOU LOVETJW 
FIREBREAKS
fered tor •' s return Your attention regard Japtt!lese to enough tecnn,cal docu· 
dent Players present the mag•c or MAN tng thiS matter IS deeply app•ec.ated: menis w.t. pav S15per ..,age and have 20 Shari and M.E.-Thanks for the 'Store OF LA MANCHA com1ng to the stage of DEAR DUCKIE BOO.BUTTTER 
Congratulations to the two awesome Dewin Thursday. Best of Luck the rest ofor more pages to oe translated Call 237­Washington Hall on April 21 ,22, and 23 LIPS.HAWIIAN HIPS I LOVE YOU -BABY Mars" P S J. stop by to sa)· hello someFOUND A Basketball at Stepan To cta1m the way.
2146 at 8 p m T1ckets go on sale Wednesday, FACE l1rne?
call8629 M.R. 
April 13 at the Student Umon ticket CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM Thank you for g1v1ng me the strength
offtce ST Pnces are $3 50 m advance JIMMY G Arent you one of the 
$50 REWARD"' Dan,et Hechler black DIRECTORS wanted for private M1ch,gan WSND RADIO CLASH ROLLS 9N!! to look 1n the llgtlt. to look 1ns1de myself. to
and $4 at the door There are only three SHOOTING STARS ???? 
jacket wtth red :'1S1de Lost 1n South D1nmg boys/g1rls summer camps sw1mmmg STATION BUDDAH DELIVERS 35 find my he~rt s destre I wont ever forget
ntghts lh1s year. so get your t•ckets early. 

Hall before Easter Please call277-2222 canoe•ng. satllng. skung. sports. nflery. FOOT FINAL STRIKE. HEY ROBIN, you· and even when I m not there. you
remember what happened to Cabaret Joe Snyder for Mr Campus Go Joe­NO QUESTIONS archery. tenms. golf. cratts. campmg. WHERE'S THE GREEN M&M's? WHO 11ckets1Don't miss the best show of the Baby' know that I am 1n sp1nt If you ever need. gyrnnast1cs. calligraphy. dramatics. NEEDS THE STING WHEN YOU'VE IUS! lOOk InSide
season-MAN OF LA MANCHAIII! 

Lost-Treasury cash1er scheck (ROTC) GOT THE MAD ENGINEER? LOOK OUT
cheertead~ng. gu1tar M Seeger. 1765 Love always.
R•ckB 

If found. please return to me so that I can Maple. Northfield. IL 60093 Send deta1ts BOOKSTORE, BECAUSE NOW IS THE The Ark is coming! I know you did great on the MCAT s' Lady Lancelot get the new one before next year (It s TIME!! 
You ll make a great doctor! 

PUCKER UP AND PLANT ONEil!Ill
been ccancelled1 Please call8332 GRAD STUDENT SEEKS SAME FOR PLAY KISSER, THE BEST THING TOThe Observer is always the Absur­
ROOM ATE -HICKORY Wanl10 heara bedt1me story? 
Ste111e. HIT N.D. SINCE SMC PARIE­
Found Gold mens wnst watch m Steppan der!!!!
VILLAGE.STARTING JUNE/CALL Do you want you dreams to come true? 
I love you. even you do adm1re Jane TALS!!II!ISIGN UPS: TUESDAY AND FRED 239-5845 Sign up for the Tuck Ins! Fonda! WEDNESDAY APRIL 12 AND 13TH Call1414 EARN $5000 thiS summer pa1nling For only 25 cents you can have someone LAFORTUNE LOBBY 6-8 PM. THEYours tdtever. 
LOST-a gold cyhndncat DIGITAL houses m your hometown Contact Place· 
Wanted Female Roomare for 83-84 at tucked away S1gn ups are m the d1n1ng FIRST ONE HUNDRED MEN AND ONECulieWATCH on Wed 4·6-83 REWARD• ment Olf1ce tor more tnfo and application
Campus Vtew Apts Non-Smoker please halls at dmner Monday through Wednes­HUNDRED WOMEN ARE ELIGIBLEIIIIfound. please call Anne at 2968 at Room 213. Adm Bldg
Call 234-4250 after 11 00 p m day of thiS week Get the Porn out of the 110ranes! 
THE 1983 ANTOSTAL COMMITTEE 

.c:;.· --··, ..... \:. ·~· ;~....J ...... ,~ . ! ){ \ ..
•.Q~ .\. 

;..:..:.··: ;:-:-;.~':'". ·,....~ ;..:...::.... 
The Observer Monday, April11, 1983-page 10 
... 

High jumper Chuck Constable cleared seven feet Saturday at the Midwest Catholic Championship
Constable 
here. The leap was good for first Place and a Notre Dame record. The 
clears 

Irish won the meet easily, taking 12 of 19 events to outdistance Mar­quette. 
...,.. 

Apn/11 
The Atomic Cafe 119801 
An h1lar~ous and fr~ghten1ng took at Amer~ca's Cold War and the cult of 
the atom. The Atom1c Cafe 1S one of the most entertammg and disturb­
Ing documentaries 1n recent years O~rectors Jayne Loader and Kevm 
and P1erce Rafferty have collected and JUxtaposed government and 
commerc1al footage mto an ~romc. mordant and pass1onate polemiC 
Annenberg Aud.,SriiteMuseum Admission/ 
2

........---lrt() ~ ll~l21tllr $ · o o -~ 

.................coupon................ 
AROUND THE WORLD STUDY 
Kyoto, Bali, Singapore, Benares, Nairobi, Cairo, Jerusalem, London. 
30 university students, drawn from across the United States, will circle the world Sept. '83-May '841iving and studying in the above locations. Accompianied by in­ternationally known senior professors, the selected students will carry a full course load as they explore how societies represent and interpret themselves to themselves and outsiders. 
A unique opportunity to study around the world tor a full academic year, the International Honors Program seeks mature, motivated candidates who have a­chieved academically. Further information may be ob­tained by calling, collect, 217-384-6383 or by writing to the program directly. 
THE INTERNATIONAL HONORS PROGRAM Suite 307·96 1430 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge MA 02138 
EARTHBA~M 


l'lrmpu.'( KIIIPx rrprt>M?lfu/ll'f' u·mtl~d. Writ,• ml­drt'NN tlbf,t'f' (f in/I"Tf')C/Pd. 
Bookstore XII rolls on. • • 
Bookstore Tournament 
Friday's Results 

Stepan 1 Team #88 over Pr~ncess Grace Dr1v1ng Team by 4 4 Shots & a Keg over Endangered Feces by 16 Cr~me Doesn't Pay-Part II over Bow Wow Wow by 
4 
B1gger, Be«er, Smoother. Drunker. & Ou1cker Than Average over We'd Have a Real Name II We Had A Real Team by 17 
Stepan2 The Comb~ne Brothers And Assorted Mothers over 5 Juniors In More Wa.ys Than One by 10 Mangled Baby DuCks Bleed Again over The Red­Wingsby8 Sopke's Cho1ce over Team #441 by 9 Freddie Brown & The Cruc1al Turnovers over 5 Worms Tunneling .by 8 
Stepan 3 Team #62 over 5 Guys That L1ke To by 15 
G. G & The So1lers over The Ama1eurs by 12 Were We Supposed To Have A Clever Name? over Pete's Blind S1sters by 4 Team #377 over Team #342 25·23 
Stepan4 Team #71 over Tricker & The Doobers by 4 The No-Name K1ds over Team #433 by 15 3 Guys Who Hate The Other 2 over Master G. & The Apathetics by 3 Eugene over Team #137by 10 
Stepan5 Team #77 over The Garnry·s by 15 WBBS over The Carrots by 9 Doug's Gunners over Team #105 by 2 Team #387 over Team #215 by 11 
Stepan 6 Sublime Mediocre Frogs over Erma Keebler's 5 Elves 22-20 Love. Skull. & The Chicken W1ngs over Herschel Walker & The Polygraphs by 5 The Tormentors over Brother Combo . .by 16 F1nal512 Or Bust and Bethoven's F1ve: Double For­
Bookstore9 The Fi•~ Dwarts over The New Modern Heros Of Ar­chl!orture by 15 
G.F. over Gimpy's 5:15 No-Names by 15 F1ve Guys ..over The Dynasty by 3 Kev1n Ownn .overTeam #443 by 16 
Bookstore 10 The 5Jerl<s Under 5'10 over SWISH by 3 G' Anatics over The English Beaters by 13 The Soc1al Retards over Spleef by 12 Team #132 over Void Of Talent by 13 
Lyona11 All The Pres' Men over OUASZ by 10 The A~rball 5 over No. We Have No F-Ball Players 23-21 Team #304overTeam #170by2 Embarrassing .over New Lawn Transfer by 14 
Lyons12 

, Captam Snorkel .. .over Team #475 by 11 Team #302 over 4 Cool Guys & Kosse by 6 Team #201 over McNeil & the Crepetat1ons by 3 Gentol Express over Kansas Jack & The Tw1sters by 14 
Yesterday's Results 

Stepan 1 Field Ed over The Chicken That Crossed The Road by 15 Fun Bunch F1ve over Genenc FIVe by 11 The Fam11y o~er We're Cute by 8 Slow, Wh1te. And Can't Jump over B1ldo·s Slash· marks by 11 Team #257 over I Should Have Ducked . by 14 Lumber Lobbers over Doctor Bob by 19 The Bullish B-Ball Brokers over Grab A Sandw1ch 11 lmmanu'='l .over Ch1co Escuela .by forfeit Run & Gun over Team #274 by 13 MUNG over Team #135by6 
Stepan2 8th Floor Losers over Undec1ded by 12 Franc1s' Hotel LaSalle over Andropov & The Papal Assass1ns by 17 Four Basketball Players & .over Danny Red & The Brunettes by 10 Team #230 over Team #250 by 3 Four Human Be1ngs. .over Team #270 by 11 Team #402 over Team #51 by 4 Sons Of Thunder over You Got To Get Real by 6 Hoopsters over Herschel Walker & Four Other Com­pulswe L1ars 22-20 Dry Gnnders over F1ve G's by 12 
Rousseau's Noble Savages over Bad Girls Get Spanked by 15 
Stepan 3 The F1ve Pillars Of Zen over East Coast Irish by 3 Team #128 over Hard To Beat by 10 The 2-A Team over 22 PI by 8 Team #296 over Team #234 by 8 The Beer Hunters over 5 White Boys . .25-23 
B.O. & The Bouncing Balls over Acute Sch1zophren1a -Paran01a Blues by 15 Spoofhounds Ill over High Five by 7 B1p B1p B1p B1p B1poverTeam #107 by 10 Showdown over Team #241 by 12 Big Bag over Team #144 by 14 
Stepan4 God's Own Drunks over Skywalker II by 10 The Bleed1ng Ax Wounds over Token Resistance by 18 NEBOS IV 6ver The Four Ex-F1ve by 9 Team #263 Freedom Cranes by 6 The Deta1ls over FDC K1ller War P1gs by 8 Team #36 over Short As .by 12 Four Lazy ...over Team #38 by 10 Make Believers over Later Steady Ned Wins Th1s T1me by 3 Team #424 over Team #226 by 18 Play At Your Own R1sk over Team #236 by 14 
Stepan5 WSND RadiO Clash over Jerry's Kids by 16 Boom Boom Mancmi . .over The Walsh Brothers by 12 Team #253 over Five Guys Who Will Box ...by 3 PGNF In Stereo over Not Really Th1s Bad by 5 The Cubs over Many Former NeurotiC Pat1ents Now Have Br~ght Futures by 11 
B. Lube Ails over Andy Cashman Is A Beautiful Per­son by3 John Shoe & The Sneakers over Bo Bo Jake . 14 5 Guys Named Moe over Team #113 by 4 Team 426 over Where Are All . by forte1! Team # 136 over Men At Work by 19 
Stepan 6 Four D1me Droppers overTeam #90 by 1 6 PendeJOS over The Parnell1tes by 10 Young Doctors over F1ve Guys Who Are Not by 4 
But We Had A Good Recru111ng Year over Team #370 by2 Team #225overThe Ch1llie-DIIIies by 17 Team #21 over Team #32 by 17 Team #100 over Lester & The Molesters by 14 Navel Lint over Uncle Sidney & Aunt S1lly ReviSited by2 Mercury Morns Chose Coke Over Peps1 over Team #264by7 
Stepan 7 Orange Crush over The L1byan Nallonal Team by 9 R1ch Hunter & The Polish Nat1onals overTeam #266 by8 
Stepan 8 Reils & 4 Guys over Have Some Coke & A Smile by 16 Sir Ga!laghad & His Sen1or Kmghts over 5 Guys Who Travel More Than Ted by 7 
Bookstore9 SWC over Team #364 by 8 Tall But White over A Wiley Verm1n by 7 The Creamers over Ziggy Stardust .by 17 Team #490 over Psyche Up For. by 6 Team #149 over Krug Syndrome by 16 Bad To The Bone over The Non-Dons by 16 
Bookstore 1 0 

So We're Bad But Don! Wave over Flying But­tresses by 11 Even Hungrier Rats over Bootleggers 22-20 Team #489 over Team #194 by 3 Great American Tube over 4 Guys Who Can't Score .. by 12 Vamlla Wonders over Team #278 by 16 Team #380 over Four Operators & Dial-A-Joke by 8 
Lyons11 The Early Risers over The Gels by 6 Team #285 over We Need He1ght by 6 Team #392 over We're Rude & You're Not by 14 Ariel Sharon ...over Cataclysm by 18 Bara Ray over Team #294 by 2 Beaucoup .over The Swamp by 17 Team #407 over Team #102 24-22 Gil Thorpe·s . .over 2 Farley CW's .by 17 Team #48 over Slick's Dem1se ...by 3 John D & All Whitedust overJ. Arthur & .by 10 
Lyons12 '43C-130' over Team #283 by 12 5 Guys Who Can't ..over Buddha's ...by 9 Blum·s Bums overJesseN1ck & The OC's To Be by 9 Team #398 over Scooter's Shooters by 10 DGW II plus 2 over Team #469 by 10 The Problem With ..over Show Me ..by 5 Team #104 over Floyd Fithian's ...by 11 Team #9 over Team #413 24-22 The Militant P1gs over The H.W. School ...by 12 Muldoon's Mum over Research by 2 
Today's Games 

Stepan 1 Moon Dogs v. The Tragedies (4:00) Captain Crunch & .v. One More Chance (4:45) 201 East v. Team #430 (5:30) Double Decker Oreo Cook1e v. Captam Wagz & The Sleepwalkers (6:15) 
Stepan2 Nutmeggers Are Back Again v. Sexually Or~ented or Otherwise Perverse (4:00) The Phlegm Phhngers v. Team #47 (4:45) John DeLorean Says Coke Is II v. The Secret Of Mac­Beth (5:30) Runmng Rebels v. Cha~rmen of The Boards (6:15) 
Stepan 3 WEBB's Encore v. Two Esk1mos .(4:00) Bob M. & The Wmdex Gang-Bob M. v. Hey Vince Dooley . .(4:45) Team #54 v. The Scroggs (5:30) Knockouts v. The Essense Of Funk (615) 
Stepan4 Team #365 v. Team #37 (4:00) Team #406 v. Tea.m #59 (4:45) Pike's Peaks v. As Solid As A F1~ldhouse (5:30) Geekhunters v. Team #365 (6:15) 
Stepan 5 Shoot That Ball v. Oh. What The Hell (4:00) The Last Of The Stoosters v. The Pranc1ng lr1sh (4:45) Burger Barn Boxers v M1ke Hunt ..(5:30) Team #89v. Team #139(6:15) 
Stepan 6 Team #218 v. Team #371 (4·00) Team #50 v. Cancelled Due To Lack Of Interest (445) Team #30 v. Team #91 (5:30) Gramke's Gorr~llas v. B1g Ben . .(6:15) 
Bookstore9 Macn·s Prefered v. 5 Of A K1nd (4 00) South Bend lards v. 3 Beers & 2 Grape (4'45) MacNamara's Band v. The Fest Questors (6:15) 
Bookstore 10 Name Withheld Upon Request v Smok1n Joes Chicago Knockers (4:00) 5 Domers Who Got Tna~r Rmgs By Spnng v. No. But Seriously, ..(4:45) US v. Team #356 (5:30) Wombats v. Not All-Associated W1th .(6:15) 
Lyons11 V1rtual Gods v. Annd We're Out (4:00) Team #111 v. We're 0-3 In Bookstore (4 45) Team #119 v. Pangloss L. Schindler ..(5·30) Cash Amberg v. The Celt1cs (6:15) 
Lyons12 5 Mannes Who v. Our Last Chance (4·00) The K1ng & H1s Creatures v. Cuban M1ssile Cns1s (445) The Purdue Hockey Team v. 5 Greek Geeks (5:30) Team #130 v. Team #245 (6 15) 
................~oupon..............._ 
Students and Staff 
of St. mary's and Notre Dame 
additional oH
SlOO 

On your best deal on any new Toyota. 
Just present coupon and I.D. to 
ffiichael Fahey at 


over100staff, alum, &students sold Call237-4052 one per customer 

Applications are now available for May &August. Pick up in Student Activities Office, 1st floor LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Monday, April11. will be awarded on Tuesday, April12. 
NO FEE 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for NDISMC students (Sx lOspace $18.80permonth) 
CALL 259·0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIXLEY 816 East Me Kinley 
Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
Attention Juniors, Seniors,. and Grad Students: 
Establish Ctedit Visa and ffiastet Chatge 
$12 instead of $25! APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE Monday, Apri/11 through Friday, Apri/15 11 AM to 1:30PM in LaFortune Sponsored by St. Joe Bank and ND Finance Club 

IheCIKerYer==============================~========= 
~~4()l~~============================M=o=n=d=ay='=A=p=ri=ll=l=,=l=98=3===p=a=g=e=l=l
Bloom County 
_ 


.:...... 
.. 


Student Union 
SOCIAL 
Commission needs •enthusiastic 
• responsible •fun 
people to help plan next years events Call Laurene at S.U. for interview 239-6244 
r--------------------------------~
N.D. Student Union is proud to present I 
I

ALEX HALEY I I Author of Roots & The Autobiogra~hy I of Malcolm X I 
I speaking on: I 
I

"The Future of the Family" 
II 

Wednesday, April13, 1983 8:00p.m. Library Auditorium -reception following I 
-~·.,, :··., ..:? ~ ~-~··· ~~~.7·~&...:-~..t'IC""".o?-~....lli..:~~~-~..:~~·,.;~.:!~.... ~.,·---~~--.. ~~·,.:--.
~--------------------------------J 
Monday, April 11, 1983 -page 12
SJ2orts 

Second squad shines 
Hitting highlights first scrimmage 
By STEVE lABATE All· American from Oak Lawn, Ill. tleld until being knocked out of Sports Writer came to Notre Dame with many ac· bounds. colades and he has appeared just •Bumper Schiro, who is making 
In cold and damp Notre Dame lately to be ready to burst on the the switch from split end to corner· Stadium, Gerry Faust's 1983 Notre scene as a sophomore. back this spring. Schiro, who is Dame football team held its first or· • Rich DiBernardo, who, at returning to the secondary after a ganized scrimmage of the spring strongside linebacker, turned in the year on offense, delivered what Saturday afternoon. The dismal best performance on defense Satur· Faust called one of the best hits he 
weather made play sloppy at times, day. The Huntington Beach, Calif. had ever seen. but the hitting was extremely hard product show ted that he could play On the play, tight end Mark and crisp -a fact which pleased the run as well as the pass yesterday. Bavaro did a slant-in over the Faust very much. Besides making several tackles on middle, while Schiro timed his c9lli· 
running plays, on DiBernardo's last sion to coincide with Bavaro's ar· 
play of the scrimmage, he picked off See HITTING, page 9
Spring Football 
a pass and sprinted 35 yards down 
'83 

Irish notables make 
"Today was the best hitting I've seen in my three springs," shouted Faust to his squad in their post· 
Bookstore entrances 
scrimmage huddle at center field. AI· though the first defensive unit ByJEFF BLUMB 21·9 tally. Fellow gridder Jon Autry played extremely well at times, most Sports Writer also added five for the winners. of the day's ~sgression came from Freshman quarterback Todd the reserTes. Among them, the Weekend action in Bookstore Xll Lezon pumped in II of 16 shots, following played especially hard· saw poor weather and 135 more mostly from the inside, as Run and nosed football. teams eliminated. But more notable Gun ran past Team #27-t by a 21·8 
•John McCabe, an Illinois all-state were the winning teams that took to score. Allen Pinkett and Van Pearcy selection who played at the middle the court Friday and yesterday. contributed one and two points, linebacker position with the second respectively,-in the impressive vic­unit yesterday. At 6·3 and 222 tory. pounds, McCabe seems cut from the Split end Milt Jackson was 6-for·
Bookstore XH 
same mold as last year's starter, Mark 18, and Dan Kerrigan and Brian Zavagnin. Yesterday, McCabe con· Pelczar chipped in 13 more be· tinually sniffed out the ball carrier. tween them, as Big Bag rolled over and made or assisted many stops. C.M.S.O.T.M.T.S. 21·7. 
•Ron Weissenhofer made his Irish halfback Phil Carter shot 8· Senior defensive end Kevin Grif· presence felt all afternoon at for-18 in leading his seeded team, strongside linebacker. The Parade Showdown, over Team # 241 by a 
See ENTRANCE, page 9 

A. L. WEST 
Are Royals best of the worst? 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 

EDITOR'S NOTE -This is the first ofa four-part series on the major league baseball divisional races. 
The American League West, top to bottom, has been the worst division in baseball in recent years. Over the last several years, the Kansas City Royals have been the only consistently good tea·m in the division, while the others have been consistently bad or inconsistent. 
Things shouldn't change too much this year, either. There are only three teams -the Royals, the Angels, and the White Sox -that have a reasonable shot at the divi~onal title. 
•Kansas 
City -The Royals have got to get the nod for the top spot, ifonly because of their consistency and experience. Last year, the Royab barely missed winning the division despite incredible injury troubles and a poor year from Vida Blue. If they avoid the same problems, and ifthe pitchers have their average year, they could leave the rest ofthe division in a cloud ofdust (Willie Wilson's, ofcourse). 

•Minnesota 
-Minnesota? Granted, I said that they didn't have a reasonable chance to win the division. They don't, but the rest of the division is so weak that a young, talented team like the Twins can tlnish high in the division. Players like Kent Hrbek and Gary Ward make the future bright. 

•Chicago 
-The White Sox pitching is very good and should get Tony LaRussa's team into third. The problem is fielding, experience, and managing. If LaRussa was a good manager, the White Sox would have taken the division a couple of years ago. Now he has to hope some of his young players live up to their billing. 

•Califomia 
-Put California's hitting and experience with Chicago's pitching and you'll have a great team. Otherwise, you have two teams that could put it together and take first from aging Ktinsas City, or could slide into the bottom of the division. The Angels' problem is easy to diagnose --pitch· ing. Unless, a couple of the pitchers have great years, all the superstars in the world won't get Gene Autry a pennant. 

That leaves Oakland, Texas, and Seattle to tight for last place: 

•Oakland-Fifth 
place then falls to the A's who are trymgto recover from the mess that Billy Martin always seems to leave behind whe he moves on. If the once-great starting pitchers can find some life in their tired arms, the A's might be able to pressure the Angels for fourth. 

•Seattle 
-The Mariners should give the Rangers some competition unless some of its young pitchers pull a surprise. What good is a great bullpen if it enters the game four runs down? 

•Texas 
-The Rangers should win the honor of the worst team in the league because they only have one strong point -third base. where Buddy Bell lives in purgetory -and many weaknesses like hitting, pitching, and fielding. 


__ ___j 






