Dormitory pizza -page ·6 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1983
VOL XVIII, NO. 67 till' inlkpcnuent ~tuucnt ncw~papcr ~l·n·ing notn daml' ;md ~aim man·~ 

Saint Mary's decides to integrate residences 

ByJOHN MENNELL 
StaffReporter 
The decision is final: Saint Mary's will have class integrated housing next year. 
According to the Director of Residence Life and Housing at Saint Mary's, Patricia Rissmeyer, "The decision was made last year by an ad hoc committee that was rt:presenta­tive ofthe 'iaint Mary's community. 
"The changes are not drastic by any measures." The changes call for housing underclassmen in all dorms except Augusta. 
Out of I I I students randomly chosen to discuss the changes with the housing commission. only 17 showed up. "Ninety percent of the ones who were there were in sup· port of the changes once we ex­plained the reasons," Rissmcycr said. 
She outlined three main points as causes for tht· changes. 
"First, there is a degree of un­happiness and limiting with the cur· rent housing situation. One third of the freshmen don't live in Regina." Rissmeyer said, "When they find out that they won't be in Regina they 

Times blames military 
The Observer/Thorn Bradlq· 

for deaths of Marines
SMCSanta 
Associated Press
Santa Claus (known the rest of the year as Dave ....rita's visit was sponsored by the LeMans Hall Coun­Grote) listens intently to the wishes ofjoshua Van­cil and included children from CANCO, a center for 
NEW YORK U.S. military
dusen Saturday in SaintMary's Haggar College Center. abused and neglected children. 
negligence was partly responsible for the death of240 Marines last Oc­tober in a terrorist bomb attack, The New York Times said yesterday. 
ATimes inquiry into the bombing 
found that Marine commanders did


Castration considered for rapists 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The crime is rape. The sentence is chemical castration. The issue is whether judges who mete out such "eye for an eye" justice are overstepping moral and constitutional bounds. 
Searching for a means to effective­ly punish sex offenders, at least three judges have recently ordered rapists and child molesters to take a drug that causes"chemical castration." 
The drug, Depo-Provera, decreases the male libido by suppressing the hormone testos­terone, and patients lose the urge to commit sexual offenses according to researchers. In regulated doses, it cuts down men's sexual aggressi-.e­ness without making the"l., im­potent. 
Depo-Provera has been voluntarily used by sex offenders for at least 1 5 years on an experimental basis, but in the past year, several judges handed down unusually short or probated sentences to be not consider terrorism a real threat 

served while taking the drug. 
despite a similar bombing in AprilIn February, a municipal judge in that leveled the U.S. Embassy in Vista, Calif., sentenced a 61-year-old Beirut, killing 63 people.
child molester to a year in custody The report, which followed inter­and five years of bi-weekly Depo­
views with dozen:> i>f military and Provera injections. He had faced a diplomatic officials in Lebanon,
maximum sentence ofeight years. 
Europe and the United States, con­Last month, a judge in Andt>rson, 
cluded that: 
S.C., gave three admitted rapists the • Preparation of Marines for assign­choice of 30 years in prison, the ment in Beirut included no specialmaximum sentence, or castration ::.... 
training in counter-terrorism. 
either physical or chemical -while • Most of the admirals and generals 
who supervised the Marines were see RAPE page 4 more familiar with battle problems complain. The limiting occurs when people are compelled to move from year to year." 
The second reason for the change. according to Rissmeyer. is to build a larger community. "Currently Saint Mary's is dass-scgregatcd. I'm not against class activities but the present situation burdt·ns R.A.'s," she said. 
"It is impossible for frcshnwn to get advice. The school is freshmen and everybody else. This doesn't build a community of people." 
Rissmcycr noted that each class experiences different thii1gs and class integration would mean less pressure and more support. 
Finally she said. "Singles arcn't good for freshmen. They arc isolated without the support they need.' 
"The changes will not affect the senior class," Rissmeycr said. Seventy of this year's freshmen will have to live in Regina again. al­though no compensation is planned to offset the higher charge for living in a single. 
"The overall goal is to improve 
housing," she said, "ldl·ally, people 
will choose people over the old 
wood in the older dorms." 
at sea than with static defenses ashore, considered terrorism to be less important than conventional threats and deferred to the Marine commanders in Beirut on questions of scc1,1rity. As the Marines began to come under direct attack, the top commanding officers did not raise 
questions or suggest to Washington. 
that the troops' position was becom­
ing untenable. 
• 
So much intelligence information on possible terrorist attacks poured in that, after a while, the Marines stopped taking it seriously. The problem was not lack ofinformation but lack of trained analysts to evaluate it. 

• 
When the Reagan administration decided in September to order a naval bombardment in support of the Lebanese army, the Marine com-


see TIMES page 4 


South Bend area is stronghold for charismatic movement 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a three-part series on People of Praise, a charismatic religious group (m campus. 
By KEVIN BINGER 
Copy Editor 
The Charismatic Renewal is going strong throughout the world and at its home base -South Bend ­despite its split with founder Bill Storey, a Notre Dame theology professor. 
The People of Praise, one of the movement's many commumues, boasts I,000 South Bend members -50 of whom form a chapter of Notre Dame students -and com­munities in Minneapolis, Minn., Cor­vallis, Ore., and several other cities. 
Storey was a professor at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh in the spring of 1967 when he and three other professors started the ball rolling with the now-famous Du­quesne retreat. He moved to Notre Dame later that year and today rare­ly refers to the renewal without the adjective "unhealthy." 
Storey's criticisms are echoed by fellow Notre Dame theology profes­sor josephine Ford. Ford joined the movement in 197I and was forbid­den to attend People ofPraise events three years later. 
"For about tbn:e years it was a . very open, charismatic group," Ford said. "Then a group of men started making rules and regulations I didn't think were acceptable. They were asking me to submit to the leaders, but I would submit only to God." 
As far as the People of Praise is concerned, the criticisms are un­founded. 
"We don't do things democrati­cally," said Tom Loughran, Notre Dame graduate student and contact person between the Notre Dame chapter and the leadership. "But I find the men in the leadership to be very reasonable and very concerned for input from the group." 
The goal ofthe charismatic move· ment is to renew the Christian com­munity by deep~ning the experience of the Holy Spirit in its members. This "spiritual awaken­ing" is called baptism in the Spirit. God is said to be an active force in the lives of people who pray for his intervention. 
And pray for it they do. People of Praise members set aside time each day for prayer and members gather weekly for prayer meetings. The entire South Bend community meets every other week; the Notre Dame chapter meets separately on off-weeks. 
"We are a group of people who want to help one another lead better Christian lives," Loughran said. 
One's first prayer meeting is an eye-opening experience. The first thing that strikes the uninitiated is the staggering friendliness of the group. A stranger is guaranteed to meet dozens of people before the meeting gets underway. 
But what makes an outsiders' jaw hit the ground are the prayers and prophecies that take place between the many songs. These are sung with tremendous intensity, often in two­part harmony, while members raise their hands or clap. 
Between songs, members break into individual prayer. A chorus of hosannas, hallelujahs andpraise be to Gods fills the room. If one listens carefully, he or she can hear a low undertone of unintelligible mum­blings. A few people break into tongues -the Holy Spirit speaking through man in some unknown lan­
guage. 
After this dies down, members pray silently for God to deliver his message to them. When a member receives a prophecy he or she relates it to the group, usually speak-
see PRAISE page 5 

Monday, December 12, 1983-page 2 
The Observer 


In· Brief 

Eastern Airlliles' non-contract employees can expect 
a rai!">t' next yc..·ar to soften an l H pern·nt pay cut they agreed to an"l"pt in return I(Jr investment in the company. Richard McGraw, sc.:nior vice president tiJr corporate: communications, confirmed Friday the pending raise for I 'i,OOO non-union employees, from top­rauking managers to clerks and ticket agents. McGraw said he could not !->pc..Tify the amount ofthe raises or when they will he distrihuted, hut said they would put non-contral'! workers closer to union mem· her!"> who have raises schnlulcd for l9H4. Ea~tern announced la~t wtTk that all employees had agreed to contribute I H percent to 22 perc..TIH oftheir wages to a stock investment program in order to hail out till' dcht-ridden company. -AP 
Thirty-two Cabbage Patch dolls netted SH,I 12 for charities at wel'kend auctions in Flagstaff and metropolitan Phoenix. Ahout I00 people turned out Saturday for a Flagstaff auction henditting the Salvation Army's Chlistmas fund. Salvation Army Lt. Mark Brooks said the money would provide ( :tuistmas gifts and hJOd for 2H to ~0 needy families. In Mesa, more than .~00 peopk gathe..· red as I 0 dolls were auctioned off. Proceeds go 10 the 2·1-hour Child Crisis (:enter in Mesa. In the Phoenix suhurh of Deer Valley 16 dolls were auctioned off for a total of .S3,H07, henclitting the..· Phoc..·nix Police Departent Needy Family Fund and St. 
Mary's Food Bank. -AP 

Moscow police seized at least three young people 
who had gatherc..·d in a small, quiet rally yc..·sterday to rememherjohn Lennon, the..· lkatles singing star who was killed two }Tars ago in New York. A dozen or so Soviets who said they liked Lennon's music had gathnc..·d in the Lc..·nin llills ovnlooking Moscow. A uniformed polic..Tman grahhed an anti-nuc.:lear poster the group had and crumbled it, and unitimned ami plainclothes policemt:n started chc..Tking the youth!->' documc..·nts a~ Western rc..·porters watched. Police told the..· group ·thq· should hold their vigil elsewhere. hut ttie young pc..·opk did not leave. A policeman struck one of the young mu1 who was rc..·sisting police..· orders to get into a police hus. Lennon wa!"> !->hot 10 death outside his apartnwnt huilding in New York Dec. H, I<)HO The Soviet press has used the shooting 'lS an example of violenc..T in the llnited States. -AP 
The U.S. Navy-will station two more..· suhmarines at its base..· in Sasc..·ho. !">Outhwcstern Japan. thc newspaper Yomiuri Shim­hun, rc..·ported }'l"stnday. One..· suhmarinc is ha~cd at Saseho now. None..· ofthe submarines is nudear-powcred. The newspapt:r said the additional !->Uhmarines arc..· rt·garded as a reinfonxment of Japan's 1.000-nauticalmik l'adfic Occ..·an !">ca lanes. The report also said the move will enable..· tht· llnited Stall'!"> and Japan to blockade the Tsus­hima Strait ht·twc..·c..·n Japan and the Korcan Peninsula in timt:s ofwar, bottling up the Sovkt llnion:s-l'al'itle navul•fllfct•~•lli<li-'!Nu~< ~b.<S· mt·n in .Japan could not ht· rc..·achcd for comment. The..· paper quoted Navy !">ources a~ saying strong anti-nudcar sc..·ntiment in Japan wa~ a considc..Tation in the deployment ofconventional suhmarincs rather 
than nudc..·ar-powered craft. -AP 
~~~ula~~a~!~~!ligh!:;!?~l~~ acc..~~~~a­
poll done for the wec..·kly nt·wspapcr,journa/ du Dimancbe. Pol­lstc..'f!"> said 5.., pc..·rc..Tnt of those surveyc..·d approved of the joh heing done..· hy Mittarand. a Socialist. In Novt:mbcr's poll, his rating was J9 pcrn·nt. The..· rating was 52 perc..Tnt in Octoher. The increase:: in his popularity in Non·mht·r canll· aftl'f he visitt·d Beirut, Lt:hanon, l(JIIowing the dc..·aths of 'iH French soldiers in the multinational pc..·ac..Tkn·ping I(Jrce there. The soldic..·rs were killed in the explosion of suicide tc..·rrorist's homh on Oct. 2~. Anothcr attack at the same tinw kilkd 2-fO l'.S. !">c..-rviccnlc..·n at their ha~e at lkirut airport The polling ag-:ncy IF<)(; took the latest poll hctwc..'l'n Nov. 29 and Ike. 'i ami surveyed 1.9~(, people..·. -AP 

Of Interest 

<_ -. 
A Liberty Bowl package is still heing offered hy 
the Studt·nt linion.< >ptions indudt· tv. o nights at tht· Ramada Inn of Mc..·mphis for S.-'>.-'1 pt-r person, quadruple occupancy. Also, a hus will Jc..-an· Notrt· Dame on Wedrwsday, Ike. .2"', for Memphis, arriving thc..-rt· the next morning. The bus will stop at the Amc..•ricana llotd in downtown Chicago to pick up additional pa~sengc..Ts, returning Ike. iO. The cost is S'i6. Students may purd1ase either or hoth of these 
options  at  the  Stmknt  !Inion  Tickc..·t  Offrcc/Record  Store  until  
Thursday.  -The 0/Jsen•er  
Weather  .  

Cloudy and wet today with a high arouml .P. Chann· of rain is I00 pc..-rcent f(Jr this morning and early afternoon. with th!.' lt·mperature dipping down to about 52 this afternoon. -The 0/J­sen,er 
Columbia's landing AP Photo File 


The Space Shuttle Columbia landed Thursday, but not without some technical problems. Above, flight directors Gary Coen and Charles Lewis dis­cuss ways to solve these problems. The shuttle final(y landed, and the five Americans and one West Gennan disembarked into the bot Califor­nia sun. Below, the shuttle is sunvunded by ground support apparatus, prior to its return to the Kennedy Space Center. 
r 
r-The_Ohs.er.y:er_ 
Today's issue of The Observer was produced hy: 

Composition Editor...................Tom Sapp 1)'P£'Sellers...................... Mil:hdlt:' & Kt:vin N£•u•s Edilflr.............................. T(lffi Mowlt:' Co/J)' /!dilor... . ............. Amy Srtcphan .\jJt}rfs CrJPl' f:ditfJr.................. Ed K<mrady 
VieU.'fJcJillllt~l'Olll .................. Kdth Pichc:r Featun•s Copr Editor....... Sarah J-lamihon fl•atures Lt~l'CIUI ........................ Mary ~It-aly .V/J /Jay l:'dilor........... ........ Earl Baker Pbotographer... ................. Thom Hradky 
Quote of the Day: 
"/can't decide which group to be in, so I'll be in them all." 

--Tom "the Shenanigod, Choralee, Glee Clubber, Observerite, Scholastic-ite, and NO Science Quarterly-er" Sapp 
The Observer ( l'SPS 'i<J9 2-~000) is puhlislll·lf Monday throu~h Frida~ and on honll' football Saturdays. c:xcept 
during c.:xam and vacation pc.:riods. The Observer is published I~J' lh<· stud,!nts of the llnitrersity of Nolr<• /Jamt• and Saint .'l-llli~J'·s Coii1!Mt1••\ubst·njJtions my 
b<' purcbasetlfor S2 5 f><'r y<•ar ( S 15 per· st•me.'ilt'r) hy U'riting The Observer, P 0. Box Q. Notre: D:.~mt·. lntliana -I6S')6. 
fhe Observer is a m<·miwrofThe As­sociated Press. All rl'produnion rights arl· n,"!'!ol'rVl:"d 
PRE·CANA PROGRAMS 
Marriage preparation is a diocesan requirement across the country 
• 

Pre-Cana Weekends Feb. 3-4, Mar. 2-3, Mar. 30-31 or Host Couple Program 
Inter Faith Instructions February 15 and 22 7:30p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
CJ"Rir.liing aSoul 

efT{ cflcJ!cJt~cflse ? 


I Q'ii(Jl Sign up at: Campus Ministry-Badin Office 239-5242 



The Observer 

ness delivers testimony against her former· Nazi cap­tors in the cnncentration camps. ·(· . 


Bush denounces rightist terrorism 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador ­Vice President George Bush, speak­ing to the nation's top leaders, denounced rightist terrorism in El Salvador last night as "the mur­derous violence of reactionary minorities." 
Bush delivered his remarks in a toast at the end of a state dinner in the official residence ofPresident Al­varo Mangana. 
"The brave Salvadoran patriots who arc now fighting to build their new democracy are under attack not after the toast, saying he wanted to only from communist guerrillas sup­consult with other leaders. ported from abroad," the vice presi­However, he said, "In principle, I am dent said, "but also from extremist in agreement with everything he right-wing terrorists, these death stated." squads, that small group of people 
Administration sources in Wash­within your own society who ington said Bush would use his five­operate outside the law.'' 
hour visit to push SalvadoranBush told the gathering of Sal­officials for a crackdown on killingsvadoran officials, "Your cause is by rightist death squads widely
being undermined by the mur­believed to be associated with thederous violence of reactionary security forces. But he made nominorities." 
mention of this in his arrival state­Defense Minister Carlos Eugenio ment.
Vides Casanova declined comment 

Bush is the first top-level U.S. offi­cial to visit El Salvador since President Lyndon B. Johnson's trip in 1965. 
Bush had attended the inaugura­
Scholastic Fiction Contest tion of Argentine President Raul Al­
fonsin in Buenos Aires Saturday and
Your Chance to be a Published Author 
arrived in San Salvador only hours af­ter left-wing rebels confirmed there was a division in the largest guerrilla group fighting the U.S.-backed government. A rebel broadcast said
Stories should be submitted to the 
the split developed when a former
Scholastic Office, 3rd Floor Lafortune guerrilla leader ordered the assas· 
sination ofhis deputy and then com·
Deadline-January 20 
mitted suicide last ApriL 

Maximum Length-15 pages 
During a stopover in Panama, Bush told reporters he would be a candidate for re-election as vice president in 1984. He noted that President Reagan has not formally announced he will be a candidate, but added, "I feel that he will be." 
In San Salvador, Bush said the United States is trying to "prvvidc for the needs" of people affected by


OR~~Al •til.r 

the "bitter guerrilla war."

Q.i J 

NOTRE DAME HEADQUARTERS 
Monday, December 12, 1983 -page 3 


School crackdowns endorsed by Reagan 
Associated Press 
The call for mort' school dis­cipline, endorsed by President Reagan, has been hcedt'd in big citit's around tht' country. Vioknct' has decreased, but tighta st"curity has apparently spawned an un­welcome byproduct: more weapons in the nation's schoolyards. 
For the past sevt'ral years, big-city school districts have spent millions to hire security guards. install elaborate electronic dt"vices, and mett' out tough pt'naltics to studt'nt offcndt"rs to curb school vioknct' and vandalism. 
Reagan called fresh attention to tht' probkm last week wht"n he urged 2,000 educators gatht'ft'd at a National Forum on Exccllenct' in Education in Indianapolis to return to "good old-fashioned discipline." 
Tighter security startt'd in th~· past several years has rcduct"d tht' num· bcr ofviolent incidents in many big­city school districts. 
The 72.000-studcnt Charlotte-Mecklenburg school sys­tem in North Carolina st't up tough rules three years ago to combat drugs, violence and vandalism. Anyone violating those rules is per­manently suspt"ndcd. Last year. 22'i students suffered that penalty. and tht' number is running at that pact' this year, says Cameron Keyser. a school spokesman. 
"We mean busint"ss," he said. "After due process and the proper hearings, if a student is found violat­ing a rule. he's a goner." 
Miami automatically t"xpels stu­
dents for possession of narcotics or 
weapons. And under Dadt' County's 
"Saft' Schools" program. schools 
now havt' bt"ttt'r locks, alarms, 
strongt'r doors and windows. and 
more counseling of delinqut"nt stu­
tknts. 
In Philadelphia, 'iOO students have 
bet"n arrested since August because 
of "Operation Stop," a program to 
curb vandalism and graffiti by invit­
ing tht' public to anonymously 
report incidt"nts by phone. 
In Dallas. where school officials say violence and vandalism have declined stt"adily sine!:' the first years of dt·segregation in the early 1970s, students will be askt"d starting January to sign a "Code ofConduct" book. guaranteeing "a catain de­gree ofgood behavior." says spokt·s· man Rodney Davis. 
But some cities. especially New York, Boston and Los Angeles. are also finding mort' students armed with weapons -and at least one school administrator attributes that to measures that have rt'duced tht' ovt"rall numbt"r of student crimes. 
What's apparently happened. says Angelo Aponte. head of the New York City school system's division of pupil personnel services, is that youngsters determined to commit crimes despite school g~•ards and other dett'rrents are coming prepared -often with knives and guns. 


Office, cars destroyed by Seattle mudslide 
Associated Press car away. He said tht' driver was uni­
njured. 

SEATTLE-A huge mudslide ear· Electric power was knocked out ly yesterday swept off a waterlogged to about two dozen buildings in the hill north of downtown Seattle, area, said Hugh Mcintosh. a Scattk destroying an office, overturning City Light spokesman. Power was parked cars and covering a major restored t<; most of the buildings street in thick goo, officials said within several hours, he said. 
No injuries were rt'portcd, Fire Telephone service also was knocked 
DeputmeotnBat.W.lioo·j~;hillf, JWI)~t,l;'t uut. in the area, said Police Sgt. David 
Averson said. But at least two eight· unit apartment buildings were evacuated as water gu~hing off the hill with the mud threatened to un­dermine them, officials said. 
Averson said the mud destroyed a dentist's office, overturned at kast one parked car and engulfed two others. A small building at an unust"d service station also was demolished, witnesses said. 
A fourth car slammed into the mud as the slide hit the highway, said Robert Mapen, a dispatcher for the towing company that hauled the 
[COrby}] 

Mixed Drinks and Draft Special 
~~· ' 

~w···· 
Q.\l{ tV&JtS 9-12;>.m. $5Drink and Drown All you can drink 
~ No. 1 Irish College Bar 

GO IRISH! BEAT BOSTON COLLEGE
between Chicago and New Orleans Pep Rally Everyday before liberty Bowl MEET YOUR FRIENDS TEACH 
FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD 

FREE UNIVERSITY 
Share your talents and skills! This is your chance to teach anything you want (almost) ... from mixology to 
2080 Madison 


auto mechanics to finger dancing to ...?! 
(Overton Square) Memphis, TN 






!1® ~./" 
Sign up with Margaret at S.U. Office today! p 
' 
'· 

' ..-......~, ~......., ..,, " ........... , ................. .. 
• .. • .. A-... • ._ ~o-..... • • •,. •,.' \ ", • :rc .~ f' « 11 J 
Walticr. 
Tht' slide crasht'd off the east side of Queen Anne Hill at about 6 a.m., covering at kast two blocks of Aurora Avenut' North -a major six­!ant' north-south thoroughfare -in mud, trees and debris j-6 feet deep. witnesses said. The site is about a mile north ofthe downtown area. 
Other smaller slides followed, slopping across Aurora and almost two blocks beyond. 
Aurora probably would still be closed during this morning's rush hour, said Ruth Mortenson, city Enginct'ring Department spokes­woman. 
IF YOU'VE JUST GRADUATED INTO DEBT, HERE'S HOW TO GET OU 
If you've gone to college on a 
National Direct Student Loan or a 
Guaranteed Student Loan or a 
Federally Insured Student Loan 
made after October 1, 1979, here's 
a great way to pay them off. 
Get the Army to help you do it. 
Instead of taking a long, long 
time paying back that student 
loan, you spend a short time in the 
Army, learning a skill, and possibly 
even accumulating additional 
money for college (like a graduate 
degree) via Army College Fund. 
If you qualify, eachyear you serve reduces your indebtedness by one-third, or $1500, whichever amount is greater. A 3-year enlist· m~nt eliminates your debt. 
It's worth looking into. See xour Army Recruiter. 
Sgt. Jones 234-4187 CALL COLLECT ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

• 
Monday, December 12, 1983 -page 4 
The Observer 

More executions planned in South 
Georgia's dectric chair, which set a grisly national record before shut­ting down I 9 years ago, is being readinl for two possible ext-cutions this Wt't"k, and a Louisiana murder convict faces the death penally Wednesday unless a Supreme Court justice spares him. 
Attornt·yl> for Robert Wayne Wil­liams, 5 I, who would lxcome the first person dectrocutt·d by I.:Juisiana in 22 years, said they would contact li.S. Supreme Court justkt·s one by ont· until they get a stay. 
Justice William Brennan, a consis­tent ti>e of the death penalty, was considering the request yestt:rday. Justke Byron White rduscd shortly after receiving it Saturday. 
In Ceorgia, Alpha Otis Stephens, :\H, faces execution Wednesday. whit(.' John Eldon Smith, 5.3, is schnluled to dk Tim rsday. 
El(.'l'trocution n.:placed hanging in < i(.'orgia in. I924 and 41 5 people, .3.37 ofthem black, were put to death in the state's glossy white dectric chair. 
Stephens is Nack and Smith is white. 
Williams was sentenced to death 
for the I 97H shotgun murder of a 
Baton Rouge, La., security guard 
durin g a holdup. Williams said the 
gun went offaccidentally. 
The latest execution date was Wil­
liams' ninth. His case has been heard 
on appeal 13 times, and all but emer­
gency requests for further legal ac­
tion have been exhausted. 
Gov. Dave Treen has agreed to a request from a group of ministers to consider a reprieve for Williams, but has not said when he will make up his mind. 

Louisiana's last execution was in I961, when Jesse James Ferguson was electrocuted for raping and murdering a 9-year-old girl. 
In Georgia, the governor cannot grant stays of execution. Only the state Board of Pardons and Paroles can, and Smith has a request pending before it. A decision is expected today. 
Smith was convicted in the 1974 murder-for-profit of two newlyweds. 
He was spared from two previous execution dates this year by the I I th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, but the court cleared the way for Thursday's execution after the U.S. Supreme Court rejected his appeal. 
Stephens was convicted in the I974 slaying of a Macon contractor during a burglary at the home of the victim's son. 
Stephens lost a bid for a stay before the II th Circuit last week, but several appeals procedures remain open to him. 
The last to be killed in the Georgia chair was Bernard Dye, 34, a McDuffie County mechanic, who was led to the chamber Oct. 16, 1964, protesting his innocence in a neighbor's slaying. 
A I972 US. Supreme Court deci­sion overturned mo~t states' death penalty laws. 


European protesters demonstrate 

As.o;ociated Press 
LONDON -An cstimatcd .30,000 anti ·nudear protcsters ringed the cruist· missile base at Grecnham Common yestcrday and rcpeatedly trit'd to break insidt·. police said. Forty-nine wert· arrt·sted. 
Thousands also protested in Wt·st <icrmany and the Neth(.'rlands on th(.' tiJUrth annivnsary of NATO's tkdsion to deploy 572 medium­rangt· cruise and Pnshing 2 nuclear missiles in Europe hy I 9HH to coun­tn Sovit·t missilt·s aimcd at Western Europc. 
British police said therc was a t'OIKcrtt·d attempt to break in at 14 dilli:rent locations around the <ireenham Common hase, 50 miles west of London. Two polkenu:n were slightly injured. 
<irt-cnham Common was the site 
of hugt· demonstrations Nov. 14 
when Europe's first nuclear cruise 
missilt·s arrivnl. Sixtet·n cruise 
missiles at <irt-enham. due to 
ht·comt· operational any day, arc tht· 
first of I (lll Britain has agreed to 
deploy ovtT tlvt· years. ·• •. 
Protest organizers said tht· demo11stration marked tht· anniver­sary of tht· NATO deploymt·nt deci­sion. and was not linknl to Saturday night's broadcast of tht· Amt·rican­madc tdt·vision film "The Day Af­
• .Times
• 
continuedfrom page I 
maiHkr in Beirut ohjt·dnl. arguing that it would m<~kt· his troop~ a tar­gt'l lilr rt·taliation. Thi~ dispute il­lustratnl a largn contlit:t: Amnican diplomatic and military policy changed afkr tht· Marines arrived. but the Marines' "pa.,sive" mission did not. 
The Times said a special Defense lkpartment commission led by Rolwrt i.._l. Long. a rt'lirt·d admiral, also had concluded that the Marines and their commamlers had been negligent about security in Beirut. 
Tht· ·commission's report is ex­pt-ctnl sonlt'timt· aftt-r Ike I'i. 


Hair Styling 
531 Michigan Street SouthBend Phone 233-4957 

ter," which depicts the nudear cutters, inside the base;. destruction of Lawrence, Kan. In West Germany, police said Organizers said 50,000 women about 250 demonstrators peacefully took part in the protest, and a police walked up and down past the gates
spokesman who did not want to be of a base in the Frankfurt suburb of
identified said, "We wouldn't Hausen, where police had clashed
dispute that 25,000 to .30,000 with some protesters in a crowd of
people were at the base." The demonstration began peace­
9,000 Saturday. fully. Protesters pinned balloons, banners and bits of wool to the About I30 miles to the south, in barbed-wire fence around the base. Mutlangen, about three dozen At mid-afternoon protesters demonstrators stood vigil through broke through the fence at one lcca­the night Saturday and yesterday tion, and police said they arrested 31 around a base believed to contain pt·ople, some of whom had holt-cruise missiles. 

BRUNO'S PIZZA II in Roseland Across from Big "C" Lumber 
Monday Only 
Bruno will deliver a LARGE 18" PIZZA ..,~~~' loronlv $9 (plus tax) first 3 toppings FREE 
IJ 
277-4519 Open 4·11 
·' 

J,l/ 
,J:Jrl 1: 
fill 
,rt .-; • 


continuedfrompage 1 mona! Clinic at Johns Hopkins University Hospital in Baltimore, on five years' probation. 
says the drug is working. In August, a San Antonio, Texas, jury sentenced Joseph Frank Smith, 
"It totally lowers your sex drive," convicted on three counts of 30-year-old Smith.
said the "You burglary with intent to commit rape, 
don't have one, which is fine with me. That's what got me into
to IO years' probation and fined him trouble."
$10,000 becuse he agreed to take Depo-Provera during his probation. While logic and law dictate that He could have received up to 99 the punishment should fit the crime, years in prison. some legal experts question the 
Smith, who is receiving regular in­"eye for an eye" 11ature ofthe chemi­jections at the Biosexual Psychohor-cal castration sentence. 
SPECIAL RATES AVAILABLE 
I 

"FOR CHRISTMAS B~EAK 
Call the airport 234-3712 for information 
See us for all ofyour car related needs. 
WHERE WINNERS RENT. 
;iERTZ ~ENTS I'ORD$ AHO OTHER Flf>IE'CARS 

JUNIOR CLASS SKI TRIP 
Boyne MT. Feb. 3,4,5 $82, with rental~·$98 
2 nights lodging 2 days skiing meals, transpo Party!!! 


MANDATORY MEETING FOR SIGN UPS 7p.m. Tommorrow, Wed., Dec.14 " LaFortune little Theater 
Notre Dame Club of Memphis Silver Anniversary-1983 Liberty Bowl Calendar of Events 
Official Alumni and Team Headquarters: Hyatt Regency, Memphis 1·240 at Poplar Exit East 
Hospitality Center, Hyatt Ballroom 
Tuesday, Dec. 27 2p.m.·5p.m. 7p.m.·10p.m. Ticket Exchange Wednesday, Dec. 28 Message Center
10a.m.-5p.m. 
Notre Dame·Liberty Bowl Thursday, Dec. 29 1p.m.·10p.m. T·shlrts, Caps and Pins 10a.m.-4p.m. 
Pep Rally and Party! 

Wednesday, Dec. 28 7:30·1:00a.m.Snacks, Cash Bar, Dao_c~continuous 
•' Live Entertainment-Hyatt Ballro~m ..\ ~";:@'.·;s-.A -~""'· 
Game Day Actlvittes1 TI"!\Jr ay,. ·-~­
. ; .. ·~ 
Mass and Continental Breakfast· ·9a.m. H l Regency Stadium Buses $7 round trip '1..' Post(!jame Celebralion·Hy.at't ~ge,~cy yjjhtt "i 1:pt)p.m.·2a,!ft.(U~~ 
Purchase tickets to-alfevimts'" ~dvance or atthe'Hospilallty Center 
''''~ttor ~e~ .~rAuon corttact: 'I \ 
Don Stark, President, Notre Dame Club of Memphis 
P.O. Bos 3030, 165 Madison Ave., Memphis, TN 38103 10)901-523·1234. (H) 901·398·7588 
'I 

Monday, December 12, 1983 -page 5 
The Observer 

Klansman convicted in strangling of black 
Associated Press 
MOBILE, Ala. -A prosecutor in the trial of a Ku Klux Klansman con­victed of killing a black youth two years ago says the verdict by a jury of II whites and one black shows the community won't tolerate Klan violence. 
A judge will decide next month whether Henry Francis Hays, 29, should be executed in Alabama's electric chair or sent to prison for life without chance ofparole. 
The jury recommended life with­out parole after convicting Hays on Saturday in the March 21, 1981, slaying of 19-year-old Michael Donald. 
Mobile County Circuit Judge Braxton Kittrell has the option of going along with the recommenda­tion or sentencing Hays to death. He said he would dedde· after a Jan:· 16 sentencing hearing."'" 
Donald, a mason'ty student, Was taken .to an isolated area, beaten un­til he was unconscious, then stra?igled with a rope. His body was left-dangling from a -small camphor tree in an empty lot across the street from Hays' apartment. 
The prosecution said Donald was chosen at random to show Klan strength after the mistrial of a black man in an unrelated case involving the murder of a white Birmingham policeman. 
f"Corb~rs]

:JI•••• Mixed Drinks and Draft Special 9-12p.m. $5Drink and Drown All you can drink GO IRISH! BEAT BOSTON COLLEGE 
Spirit simultaneously and spoke in
Just in time for Christmas. Our poster of 
tongues in different parts of the 
the "Face of the 80's." For this building, according to a book by Kevin and Dorothy Ranaghan, Cath­
spectacular full color 24" x 36" 
olic Pentecostals Today. 
poster.·~nd your nome, moiling 
Storey, who has never spoken in 
tongues himself: related the ex-
address and check for S 19 to: 
Art Factory 



Chief Assistant District Attorney Tom Harrison, who sought the death penalty for Hays, said he wasn't cer­tain it was a full-fledged Klan case. 
"It was a deliberate, intentional homicide that happened to be per­petrated by members in the Klan," said Harrison. "The people in this community will not tolerate it." 
Hays' attorney, M.A. "Bubba" Mar­sal, said an appeal of the conviction was planned. "It will be the easiest I've appealed in my life," he said, be­cause "there is a mountain of reasonable doubt" that Hays com­mitted the crime. 
Hays took the witness stand Satur­day and insisted he was innocent. "Did you ever take the life of Michael Donald?" asked Marsal. "No, sir," answered Hays in a quiet voice with tears in his eyes. 
But the state's key witness against Hays, James "Tiger" Knowles, a 20­year-old Klansman, testified that Hays was his accomplice and helped him beat and strangle Donald to death. 
Knowles pleaded guilty in June to a federal charge that he violated Donald's civil rights. He faces a pos­sible maximum sentence of life in prison. He testified as part of a plea agreement with federal prosecutors, but could still face state charges in the case. 
Salvaton Armv Cadet Doug Peterson entertains four-year-old Ra~hel Bascom with a Santa-suited Ker­mit the Frog doll in Chicago's Loop. Less than tu•o 
Loughran. Prophecy is not telling
continuedfrompage r~ 
the future but is meant to provide ing in the first person. God does not comfort or admonitions. speak through the person, but the One member was moved by God 
person speaks for God. to deliver a prophecy and then for­
At last week's meeting in Lyons got what he was going to say. The Hall chapel, one heard such prop­whole group broke into a fit of hecies as: laughter, as they often do. After the 
• Brethren -·You must always seek meeting ended, there were hugs all 
the. truth. The truth is beautiful. I around. Several of the men then am the truth. went out for pizza and beer. · 
• 
Brothers and sisters -You have People tend to talk about the Du­done well this semester, you have quesne retreat reverently. Storey gained much holiness. But you and three other Duquesne profes­must not become complacent. sors held the retreat after studying 

• 
Sons and daughters -I want you and being impressed by Pentecostal to love me with your whole heart. prayer groups, after which the Do notputconditions onyourlove. Charismatic communities were 


The People ofPraise are careful to modeled. test prophecies against scriptures They organized a retreat with and Church teachings, according to about 40 participants, many of 
whom received baptism into the 
weeks are left· before Christmas, and the Salz•ation Army is out in full force, collecting donations fmm passers-by 
• • .Praise 

1 perience to the Ranaghans, who started a similar group in South Bend. Storey participated in this group. out ofwhich People of Praise grew in 1971, but gradually became disenchanted and left the movement in 1969. 
"Both Ralph (Ralph Keefer, one of the Duquesne professors) and I left and they (the Ranaghans) are very careful not to mention that in their book," said Storey. Ht· is referred to in Catholic Pentecostals Today only as a theology professor; his name is never used. "It's a peculiar kind of history they write. they write his­tory to suit their own purposes. They have completely rejected me." 
Part tu•o ofthis series will center on the debate betu•een Dan Decelles, a People of Praise Coor­din"ator, and the tu•o professors. II will cover such issues as sexism, 
fundamentalism, speaking in tongues, and spiritual warfare. 

View~..._...o_i_n_t________M_o_nd-ay-,D-ec-em_b_er-12_,1-98-3-pa-ge-6 
'All we are saying is give pizza a chance' 
Yes, dormitory food sales are quite filthy on the whok. At least they were after Michael McCauslin, a spt-cialist in the University's Environmental Health and Satdy dt·partment, inspected them. 
Clearly, something must be: done:. 
The llnivc:rsity missed the best opportunity when it carried out the inspections without the food sales managers in attendance. It is hard to imagine why those most rc:sponsiblc: were left out of the review process, that is, unless it was a foregone conclusion that non­prepackagc:d foods would be banned. 
Eliminating pizza is bad enough. Unfortunately, the llmvt·rsity suffers from a far greater disease. Father Van Wolvlear seems content to fall into a University-wide pattc:rn of lazy administration -eliminating problems, rather than coming to grips with them. 
In the last two years, tht· llniversity has tried to rid the campus of happy hours, alcohol, pizza, varsity hockey, an independent newspaper, a fieldhouse, and if they go much further, students. At the same time, Notre Dame excuses itself for financial reasons, often blaming in­surance premiums and the threat oflawsuits. 
Where would these lawsuits come from? Students a<;ross campus say they have been poisoned more than a few times by the dining halls, but have any lawsuits resulted? 
Perhaps the administration is justified. After all, what member of the supposed Notre Dame "family" would avoid suing the University, given the chance. And the University may be dangerously low on money with all the lawsuits its icy sidewalks could cause (see Prof Lordi's letter below.) Has anyone thought of banning classes to prevent such litigation? 
Eliminating pizza and non-packaged foods should be the administration's last resort, not its first. After all, we are college students, and the sorts of things the inspec­tion recommends are not beyond our mental grasp. Some of us have even mastered the art of cleaning dishes, ovens and microwaves, washing coolers and walls, and lifting hot dog and hamburger buns off the floor, despite our limited backgrounds in macro­economics, international relations and engineering. 
Student Affairs should put talk ofthe pizza ban to rest, and deal with a problem for once. They should allow students to learn from their mistakes, and give them an­other chance. 
Would that the University were as patient with stu­dents as it seems to be with Gerry Faust. 
-The Observer 
{I
P. 0. BoxQ 
Time to resign 
/)ear liditor: 

( i lancing over The .\fmrting Neu•s recently, I noticed an artide t:ntitled "The Mess at Notre Damt·." Thinking perhaps someone outsidt.· the l lniversity was subjt.·ctt.·d to the diuing hall food or had seen my last SYR date, I started to read it. What I found instead promptt.·d this letter. Tht· writer made somt· choice comments such as "the t·xpt'Ctation was that Faust would serve the remaining tnm of tht· pact. Irish fans throughout the country could only ask, 'Why?"" and that Notrt.· Dame should "admit that they made a monumental mistakt.· in hiring Faust, buy up tht.· remaining two years of his contract and hirt.· somebody with provl.'n compctt·ncc in umching a major collcgt· tt·am." 
(icrry Faust is a great guy. Everyone who supports him as coach tells mt· that again and again. My roommate and I are great guys. Should we be in the starting backfield because ofit? Neither of us have any experience at this level, hut neither did Gerry Faust when he became coach. So for those who support Ger· ry Faust with this argumclll, remember that's Schafhauscr with one 'f when putting my name in the program. 
Another pro-Faustian argument was that at least we're improving each year. This cannot he used this year obviously. Or maybe it can. In 19H I we lost our last two games. In 1982 we lost our last three games. On December _iOth, we can say we lost our la.~t four games thi~ year. I would say marked improvement each year. 
To sum up my feelings, I'll use another quott' from the article: "In the final analysis, Faust, like all other coaches, has to be judged on his record. In three seasons his record is a mediocre 17-1 5·1. This year, none of Notre Dame's victories came against a team with a winning record. By any ohjective standard, Faust,' at this point, must be rated a failure and Notre Dame football is at its lowest ebb in 20 years." 
Timothy Schafbauser 

Icy sidewalks 
Dear Editor: 

I have just returned safely to my office in the library from O'Shaughnessy Hall, thankful to have skin and bones intact after the precarious balancing act I performed on the two-inch solid sheet of corrugated ice cover· ing the invisible walks between the two build­ings. 
How is it that Notre Dame, so sensitive recently to potential lawsuits, allows such dangerous conditions to persist for days on end winter after winter? Especially when thousands of students (I discount professors, as less important) use those walks several times a day? Come on, we have gfound crews enough to pick up every leafand mankure the lawns before every football game, though I have never heard of anyone tripping over a leafor a blade ofgrass. 
Can't we get a crew out to remove the snow while it is still snowing, before it is trampled into an impervius barrier to saft·ty? And while I'm on the subject, why not the parking lots, which arc never plowed until the morning af­ter a snow, or too late for either unobstructed or adequate parking? 
Winters around here have sufficient dis· comforts without Notre Dame's adding to them through negligence. 
Robert Lordi 
Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. They must bear the address, telepborze number, and signature of the author( initials andpseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Letters must be well-written and typed. Material shorter than 250 words will receive priority. 
Campus comments.:" .Should.Saint Mary's adopt integrated housing? 





The prt.·st.·nt housing system has many advantagt.·s, t.'spt·cially for frcshmt.·n. By kt.·cping Regina a 
primarily freshman dorm, you group girls who art· in pretty mtll'h the same situation togt·tht.·r. These rdationships often grow and last till the end of their colkgt· days. 

Debbie Nico Julie Clark Tracey Oakes Julie Keigher Ps-ychology/History French Business Education Class of'86 Class of'87 Classof'84 Classof'85 
As a frt.·shman, I'm not sure if it's a good idea or not. I would not want to live in Regina next year because it would take a while for it to lose its stereotype of being a freshman dorm. 
The plan would not integrate the cla~ses. It would only serve to separate the classes and students would become lost in the shuffle. 


I disagree with integrated housing because seniors should be allowed to live where they want their final year. If more freshmen live in LeMans, fewer seniors will have a chance to live there. 
Christine Nanovic 
English/Education Classof'86 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Editor-in-Chief. .............................. David Dziedzic  Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen  
I' ( ). /lox (j. .\"otre name, /.\" ·16 <;56  (.!I<)) .239· 5303  Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe  Controller ...............................................Alex Szilva~  
I he ()hSt'l'l'l'l' b tilt" indept·ndt·nt Ill'\\ ~papn puhli~hnl lw the student~ of the l 'ni·  Executive Editor.................................Paui McGinn  Advertising Manager .........................Jeanie Poole  
n-r~it1· of Notre I>.Jilll' du l.al· ;md Saint :\I an··~ Colkgc. It doe~ not nl'LTssarily rdkn  News Editor ................................. Bob Vonderheide  Circulation Manager ......................... Mark Miotto  
the policit·~ of the admini:o.tr;Hion of l'ithtT in~tilution.  The news b reported a~ ac·  NewsEditor....................................Mark Worscheh  Systems Manager ..: ........................ Kevin Williams  
n1ratl'lv ami a:-. ohjt.Tiin·Iy a~ po~sihk. l·n~ignnlnlitoriab rqJrest.·nt 1h~,opinon of a  Saint Mary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski  
majorit1· of tilt" hlitoriallloard. Commt.·ntaril's. kilns. and thl' lnsidl' Column pn·st·nt  Sports Editor .................................MichaefSUI!Mt'li  
lht· Vil·w~ ofthl'ir author~. <:olumn ~pacl' i~ availahk to allml'mhl·rs of tht· communitv.  Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher  Founded November 3, 1966  
. md tht· frl'e l':\.prt·s.,ion of varying opinions on t·ampu~. through kiln~. is t·ncol!raged.  Features Editor............................... Sarah Hamilton  
Photo Editor ........................ .................Scott Bower  

Showcase 
Monday, December 12, 1983-page 7 
Sir Obnoxious 
Odious advice for Domers en route to the Liberty Bowl by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 

V
ery well, you mindless, mannerful morons -it falls upon SirOb­noxious to straighten out your poor, misguided, misled mindsets that have been corrupted and disrupted by your beloved university's actions. 
Have you found yourselfwondering once too often what ever hap­pened to the tradition that supposedly ran rampant around your campus? Are you tired oftraversing the mythical path to glory and finding a dead end? Perhaps you are asking yourself, even as Sir Ob' noxious writes, is thisreally Notre Dame? Did I take a wrong turn at· Chicago? 
Sir Obnoxious understands, oh misguided readers, for at one time even the prudent and profound SirObnoxious was baffled by the un­ch:!tacteristic turn ofevents which fell upon you. 
Admittedly, going to a bowl game with a 6-5 record does at first glance seem a trifle odd, does it not? But how many other schools can you name that could -never mind aboutwould -do that? Ah, confused reader, now you surely must see the beauty ofthe move. Forthere is but one school that could pull off such a degrading move, and that is Notre Dame. It is obnoxiousness on a large scale; a grand snubbing ofthe nose to every school in the nation saying, "Hah! We can do it and you can't! Nyaah nyaah nyaah!" 
Sir Obnoxious finds this colossal in:rult a classic model ofob­
noxiousness and loves everything about it. 
It is not a curse but a blessing, don't you see? Look not upon the ac­
ceptance ofthe bid as a loss ofinnocence but as something to brag 
about on Christmas. Get in touch with your friends at East Carolina 
and chuckle heartily at their 8-3 record which got them nowhere. 
Sneer as you remind them that your school is the only one in the 
country that could -never mind about would -goto a bowl game 
with a 6-5 record. And as they begin to yell and scream about the 
hypocrisy and unfairness overflowing from the entire cup oftea, 
hang up, run offto the kitchen and whip up some popcorn, procure a 
tall glass ofwine, and prepare to watch the game. 
Ifyou should be so unfortunate as to live so dangerously close to 
Memphis that you opt to attend the game in person, don't forget all 
that Sir Obnoxious has taught you. Take every bit ofany alcoholic 
beverage that is offered to you. Break every drinking record you 
have ever set. 
On the way to Memphis -a poorexcuse for a city, Sir Obnoxious 
wishes to point out -be sure to throw up in the car ifit is not yours. 
Sing the fight song out the window and wave banners. Ifyou are 
toierant enough that you don't find yourselfhaving to be sick, wait 
until you have secured a parking space at the game and then think of 
something colorful to do to the beautiful red Corvette parked next 
to your car. 
SirObnoxious has never quite understood why one must be polite 
to annoying, uninformed fans. For every knowledgeable, well-read 
fan, there are fourteen who deserve to be done unto as they do unto 
you. This select group ofpersons consists primarily ofwomen, small 
children wearing caps and sweatshirts oftheir favorite teams, and 
teenagers with long, filthy hair. The fact that they are uninformeJ is 
not what is annoying -in fact, very often this can be quite amusing. 
Rather, it is the obnoxious manner (pardon the term) in which they 
support their teams. Although Sir Obnoxious must give them credit 
for their repulsiveness, remember that for every action there is an 
equal and opposite reaction. Go as far as is humanly possible in 
regard to this reaction. Never mind the "opposite" part -for that 
matter, don't mind the "equal" part, either. Just react. Counter fanati· 
cal "Kill 'em, team!" exclamations with unequal and slightly askew 
reverse-angle shots to the head. Or stuff the vanishing ends ofun­
tinished hotdogs into bratty kids' mouths. 
Be sure to wear every piece of ND clothing that you have at your 
disposal, which now apparently is where it should be. 
And remember, it's not whether you win or lose-it's how much 
revenue and how many recruits you gain. 
Dear Sir Obnoxious: The otherday I was eating breakfast at one of the dining halls and saw a "table tent" outlining statistics that showed how many eggs, doughnuts, french fries and so forth were was~ed perday by students. Well, I get pretty hungry sometimes so I would always grab a few extra doughnuts just in case, you know? Anyways, sometimes I don't eat them all and so I must have wasted about a hundred doughnuts so far. It made me feel really guilty and so I went out and hung myself in that courtyard behind the Snite Museum where no one ever goes. By the time you get this letter I will have been eaten away by birds. What should I do? 
Signed, A Late Eater. 
DumbEater: Well, Sir Obnoxious hopes whoever put those stupid litt-le things out on those tables is happy now. Obviously, there is no· thing you can do about your situation as you have become a part of modern history. But you should have realized that ifyou had eaten those doughnuts you would have gotten sick and thrown everything up and then it all would have been wasted anyway. Sir Ot,noxious hopes that readers will learn from your example and rew~?-r~lfRiJ~ •Phifl anyone who has ~he time to sit around counting leftover eggs and doughnuts and biscuits would he betteroffhelping themselves than others. 
The gentle art of euphentisnt 
by Chris Fraser 
features columnist 
I
f you've ever written or even read a resume, you may suspect that the person whom the resume describes bears little resemblance to the per­son you know. It's not that the resume lies -fallacies are not necessary -it's just that the resume is the ultimate achievement in the euphemistic art (the art which calls a garbage man a sanitition engineer). 
In looking at the language ofthe resume, the first thing you realize is that the person has gone an entire page without using a single pronoun. There are none ofthe I's, you's, and we's ofnormal everyday speech. Ofcourse that is the point: to abstract the resume from the per­son as much as possible. 
Resumes are also the habitat ofthe most unused punctuation marks in English: the colon and semicolon. People generally dislike both colons and semicolons because they are never quite sure ifthe marks are being correctly placed. Nonethe­less, they are employed, very care­fully, because job-seekers resuse to deny that they have forgotten their seventh grade grammar. Conidence is derived from one ofthoseHow To Write a Resume books. Funny thing about those books is that their authors make so much money from nervous college seniors that they themselves have no need for 
resumes. 
Records 
Resumes are neater than even the most compulsively neat people. Not only are all the margins perfectly aligned and carefully designed, hut there are often all sorts ofnifty little indentions, underlinings, and bold types that might catch the fancy of an employer. I don't think that many personel directors hire on the basis ofindentations but that is really beside the point. Anyway, do not let a resume fool you because nothing in it is casually included. Aresume is about as spontaneous as a Space Shuttle mission. 
The life presented on a resume is strictly categorized. There is EDUCATION, QUALIFICATIONS, EXPERIENCE, and perhaps PER­SONAL Heaven forbid that anything personal be involved in experience or education. I wonder how employers interpret the junk we put in this PERSONAL category. I mean, they know that no one is going to list drinking tequila and watching television as his or her hobbies. And do they really want to hire someone who spends all free time crocheting, collecting stamps, and playing chess? -even ifhis or her health is excellent and he orshe has no travel restictions. 
Ofcourse, the heart ofthe resume writer's talent lies in the creative description ofjobs. This is where the use ofthe euphemistic art comes in­to play. A euphemism, according to 
Webster's, is the "substitution ofan agreeable or inoffensive word or ex­pression for one that is harsh, indel· icate, or otherwise unpleasant or taboo." Delivery Boy h. harsh, Grocery Discharge Specialist is delightfully vague. Salesperson is unpleasant, Retail Consultant is agreeable. Where else but on a resume ca11 an office worker who sorted mail, filed papers, and used the copy machine become a mem­ber ofaclerical support staffwho coordinated incoming correspon­dence; organized index system; and directed office duplication work. 
Perhaps this worker even the showed the ropes ofthe job to a new employee in which case he could add: trained and supervised othPr employees. 
It's almost as ifthe resume is writ­ten in another language. We use our manuals and ingenuity to translate our ordinary tasks into impressive achievements. Verbs like initiated, developed, administrated, adapted, organized and the like become amazingly popular. I sometimes wonder what people who really have some impressive achievements and really did initiate, develop, etc. put on their resumes. Is there anoth­er more advanced level ofterms of which I am unaware? And what about the people who have to fight their way through all this language in order to hire people. Do they have manuals and stuffto translate our descriptions back to reality? 
Well, I've just written my resume so I sure hope not. 
Weller was better in The Jant 
in March of1983, he was leading theby Jerry Young British music scene. But influencing features copy editor tastes and racking up scores oftop LP's and No. 1 singles in the U.K. 

P
aul Weller, lead singer, guitarist and songwriter ofthe newly defunct band TheJam, has put to­gether a new group called The Style Council. With one other member ­keyboardist Mick Talbot -this two­man team just released its debut mini-LP in.the U.S., appropriately en· titledlntroducing the Style Council. Far different from the hard-hitting, punk-like sound ofTheJam, this lis· tener believes that Weller's new music has denatured. 
Songs from The.Jam like "Start," "Billy Hunt" and "That's Entertain­ment" exemplify the fast-paced melody and flutter-on·the-tongue type lyrics that are Weller at his best. In fact, The Jam surprised their European audiences in 1978, when they slowed the pace down with a romantic ballad entitled "English Rose." With The Style Council, however, Weller has become more soulful, personal ...disgustingly romantic. Virtually all ofthe melodies have slowed down. 
There are two versions ofa song entitled, "Long Hot Summer" on the album. Bothofthem reek ofa Marvin Gaye soul-like sound and show no relation to the Paul Weller energy­packed music ofyore. One ofthe more redeeming tunes on the album is "Headstart for Happiness." It is a totally live recording done in one take, with no overdubs, and it captures a personable side of the group. The Style Council's ivory tinkler, Mick Talbot, combined with Weller's classic acoustic guitar lead makes this tune a truly notable selec­tion. "It's not important ifthe actual performance isn't polished," says Talbot about putting a live record· ing on a debutLP. "As far as we're concerned our music is aboutfeel. That's the paramount reason and im­portant." 
"Speak Like a Child" on Side A has didn't seem to be enough for him. shot to No.4 in the U.K. charts. It's Weller appears to be obsessed with the first track that Weller and Talbot slapping the U.S. into receiving him 
~ -eve~it~ ~. btrNI's--sud•--with more than just cult status. den popularity leaves this reviewer "Introducing the Style Council," confused. It verges on a disco beat however, doesn't seem to be the but nothing nearly as bad as the song hand to do it. on the flipside, "Money-Go-Round While still with TheJam Weller (Club Mix)." This seven and a half stated, "I want our tour to be the minute epic made its debut at No. 12 shake-up music needs. I want it to on the British charts; however, the cut through this increasing United States may be a little more (expletive) apathy ..."The group hesitant to give such a welcome. simply wasn't strong enough to Even with guest appearances on the make this kind ofa move. song by Zeke from the band Orange Perhaps ifWeller concentrated Juice and D.C. Lee from Wham, the more on perfecting the sound that song never develops into anything was so successful for him abroad, he more than a pseudo-funk rendition would be better prepared to make ofa Donna Summer's mix -the the impact on the American rock backing vocals even sound like Don-scene that he wants so badly. na Summer. "Introducing the Style Council" is a So what happened to Paul Weller? new direction for him musically, but Since his beginnings with TheJam in it lacks the authentic Weller music 1977 at the start ofthe punk move-style that first made this listener a ment in the U.K., until their breaKup fan. Good luck Paul ... 
r------------------------­
Sports Briefs 
Any interhallfootball equiptnent that has 
not hl·en returned yet should be returned before Wednesday. The NVA will hill those who have not turned in their equipment hy that time. Remember that inflation has allt:ctt·d the price of football uni· forms as well. -The Obsen>er 
The Notre Dame Sailing teant is looking for sailors with big boat racing experience to sail in the Kennedy Cup next spring. If interested, contact Chris Hussey at 283-1 I SO. -The Obsen>er 
Stepan. Centerwill be closed during exam week. -The Obsen,er 
Indiana University defeated Columbia to win their second consecutive NCAA Division I soccer championship. Pat McGauley scored I :02 into the second overtime for the l-0 victory at Fort Laudcrdale, Florida. "I was hungrier for this one than anybody," said McGaulcy, the Hoosiers' fifth-year forward. "I knew that winning would be the most important thing, but I thought about how nice it would be to score the game-winncr." His dream came true before 5,257 fans at Lockhart Stadium Saturday night. Indiana, 21-l-4, controllcd the midficld but had problcms with a Columbia dcfcnse that shut out 12 opponents during the: season. Columbia, 
18-1-0, wa.o; the first Ivy school ever to reach the soccer final. "I fclt 
we: created the opportunities to win the game:. I think we deserved 
to win."' said Indiana Coach Jcrry Yeaglcy, whose team has gone 
unheatcn since an opening-day loss to Penn State. 
The Hoosiers' Keith Meycr almost won the game in the 88th 
minute, but his shot on an open goal soared over the bar from IS 
yards. -AP 

NBA referees announccd a tentative settlement Friday, ending a lockout by the league that forced the officials to miss a quarter ofthe regular season. NBA Commissioner Larry O'Brien said the referees expected to resume work by next Friday. Their pre­vious contract, which will he rcplaccd by a new three-year pact, expin·d Sept. I. The officials missed both exhibition and regular­season gamcs. The new pact must be approved by the union mem­bers. O'Bricn said the settlcmcnt was reached "after several days and nights of long and intensive negotiations," which included a federal mediator, Ed McMahon, starting Wednesday. "We arc very pleased to end this confrot~tation with the NBA," said Richie Phillips, ex­ecutive director of the union. "It wa.o; indeed unfortunate and the dispute wa.o; one in which we took no part in instigating." -AP 
Monday, December 12, 1983 -page 8 
"Not for money" 

Sugar Ray returns to boxing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Sugar Ray Leonard broke the ncws to the world Saturday night that he was going to fight again. Ycsterday, he told his wife. 
"I got to sleep at one o'clock," Leonard told some reporters yester­day. "I was trying to figure out how to break it to Juanita." 
Juanita Leonard, who is expecting the couple's 1>econd child in June, is in a hospital with hyperemisis, an ill­ness involving nausea and dehydra­tion. 
Leonard spent the night at the 
• • • Men 
continuedfrompage 12 
portant because John Paxson is no longer here to help QUt the front line. 
"Paxson spoiled this team. He made things happen for himself and for others. He's gone,'now, and they have to learn how to h~Ip each other." 
Lehigh coach Tom Schneider said he was content with the way the game turned out. 
''I'm very proud of the way my team played," he said. "It will help us confidence-wise." 
Schneider said he thought the En­gineers played very well_ in the first half, and at halftime he told them, "We unfortunately have to play 20. more minutes." 
The Lehigh coach summarizcd what happened in the second half, saying, "Barlow had a few dunks, and Kempton got tough inside, and it was all over with. We had no one to guard Kempton in the last 15 or 16 minutes ofthe game." 
Notre Dame's next game is against Cornell at the ACC at 8 p.m. tomor­row. 

hospital, and when he awoke yester­It was Leonard's first public day, his wife asked him where he ap,pearance in the ring since he was going. He told her he had to see stopped Bruce Finch in the third some reporters, and Juanita said, round of a welterweight title "For what?" defense at Reno, Nev. Feb. IS, 1982. 
Then, the woman who ha.o; been He was scheduled to defend against against her husband coming out of Roger Stafford May I4, 1982 at Bal­retirement, said, "You're fighting, timore, hut five days before the fight. right?" he underwent surgery for a 
"Well, sort of," Leonard said. detached retina of the left eye. Five Then he said, "She gave me that months later, he announced his look, but she went along with it." retiremcnt. 
"It's not a comeback, it's a return," Leonard said that Dr. Ronald Mic­he said yesterday. "I like that better." hels ofJohns Hopkins Medical Cen­ter, who repaired the retina, told 
Call it what you will, but the 27-him "the eye is excellent and I don't year-old former undisputed welter­see any problem with the return." weight champion wants to fight Leonard said that he has been every three months. working seriously for two or three 
"Fighting is primary," he said. months and "the workouts I've had "Everything clse is secondary. have erased that psychological scar 
"Two months ago, I knew for sure (of the eye injury)." that I would resume fighting," However, he added, 'Til only fight Leonard said the morning after he with thumblcss-gloves." 
4 
had fought a six-round exhibition Opponents should go along "'ith against two opponents at Andrews that because there: is a lot of money Air Force Base. in fighting Leonard. 
• • • Hockey 
continuedfrompage 12 

At 7:43 ofthe second, senior Tony Bona<'io outmuscled a crowd of defenders in front of Forester goalie Gary Willet to put the Irish up 2-0. 
Just past the midway point, Par­sons and Chapman each connected within 12 seconds to put Notre Dame up by four. 
Lake Forest did not beat Haverkamp until 10:0 I of the final period. Steve Pinciak scored that goal. Two minutes later, the Fores­ters were within two as Randy Wil­liamson put another one in the Irish net. 
Lake Forcst seemed to he: coming to life, but Notre Dame tightened up its defense and kept the Foresters from scoring again. 
Metzler then rounded out the scoring with just over one minute remaining in the game. Chapman and Parsons picked up their third as­sists for the game. 
Haverkamp had 47 saves in ear­ning the victory. 
"Overall it's nice to come up with a sweep and stay undefeated," said Irish coach Lefty Smith. "We played better hockey on Saturday, but we got a good effort both nights. Both our penalty killing and powerplay looked very good. The Ji~e of Chap­man, Parsons and Metzler did a great job." 
"I like: playing with Chaps and Metz," said Parsons. "I think we kind ofcomplement each other." 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObsenJf!T Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:f0 
p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. t>eadline for next day cla.~­sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds.l)lust be prepaid, either in person or by mail.
Classifieds 
Charge is I 0 cents per seven characters per day. 
NOTICES  lost key nng w1th approx1mately 8 keys on it. if found. please call 3270. handsome  3 BR HOUSE FOR RENT EXTRA CLEAN, SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, GAS  I need 5 Depaul Tix GA or STU (together) will Pay$$$ call Monica 284·5451  · Sk1es-Kneissl Wh.star SL 200cm with GEZE b1ndings.Bes1 offer call Enc 3623.  Dear Bnan. Sorry we hurt your feewtngs · The Student Body.  
reward!  HEAT  AND  WOOD  STOVE.  FUR·  
..  TYPING 2n-8534 after 5 30  I  LOST  A  RED,  V-NECK,  IZOD  NISHED $350 GEOFFND75.  272-9581  AFTER  5  NEED RIDE TO D.C. AREA · CAN LEAVE 12/20-CALL CHRIS x1670  Congratulations to NANCY ELLEN VOTAVA for mak1ng the cookie hst on  
TYPING IN MY HOME· RESUMES. LET· TEAS. TERM PAPERS, THESES, DIS8­ERTATIONS, ETC NEAT. ACCURATE WORK. REASONABLE RATES. 233­7009 MRS. COKER GERRY FAUST IS NOT A MAJOR COL­LEGE FOOTBALL COACH. JACKIE WILSON SAID. W1lson Dnveawayl Cars to all points 1n USA. only 20$ and you pock up car 111 Chtcago. Call 288-7060 DEAR MR KEVIN SPAHN I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO APPOLOGIZE AND BEG YOU TO FORGIVE ME I HAVE ERRED IN MY WAYS. ANYONE WHO HAS A FIRM A GRASP OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE AS YOU. AND IS ABLE TO MAINTAIN A  SWEATER AT ALUMNI'S CHRISTMAS PARTY ON SATURDAY THE 3RD OF DECEMBER If you have the sweater. please call 737 4 LOST' Brown tweed English cap. Last seen Thurs 12/lln 341 1n Oshag. Great spirrtual value Please call Ed at 1542. Thanks Lost. A NAME-to the gentleman who was kind enough to make sure I got home lm1ay n~ght from Pangborn· I have your coat but not vour name-call 4390 lost blue notebook 1n Cush1ng 12/5/83,Monday after 10:00 Em1l. please retum.needed lor Bio. final. 4283 003 Farley LOST. Stud!>nt season B-BALL TIX Sec.2. row 8, seat t 3 or 15. Please call Shelly x6955  Furntshed room and kttchen factllttes $125 (Mr. Garc1a 282·2250) Housemate wanted 2·bdrm house. $90/mo & share utilities. One block from NO. Call Anne 272-5567 WANTED R1ders needed to ATLANTA or anywhere along 1-75 or 1-16 & 1-95 in Georg1a. Leav1ng after finals Call Alan at 1402 ONE RIDER NEEDED TO HOUSTON: LEAVING EARLY ON 12/21. CALL ROB 8102 Need 3 nders to N.W. burbs of Chic. on Dec.22. Call6889  R1der needed to Baltimore or pts. nearby. Leave after lunch 12/20 call Jim 8752 JOE PISCOPO. Ride needed. Ma1ne Boston okay. When? 21st or sooner Who? Keith at 283-8866 or 239·7471. Be there Need R1de to Miam1.FLLeave 12/21 pm.Expenses &$.Call Khan 6784 WASHINGTON D.C. PEOPLE. Dad has g1ven me early Chnstmas present MUST SELL my spot on the D.C Club bus by 12/14 CALL TIM at 8671 Riders needed to Detroit. Toronto. North· ern New York. or any stops on HGY 401. Leav~ng 12/20. Call Bill at 1787. ENDAD Need RIDE to CLEVELAND.Can leave t2/20.Ca11Jack 1584  TICKETS DESPARATEL Y NEED TWO LIBERTY BOWL TIKS CALL 272·3491 I NEED LIBERTY BOWL TICKETS! CALL JIM AT xl m AFTFR 6pm. VILLANOVA TIX. HELP(G A. OR STUD.) CALL LARRY 1487 MANY! PERSONALS WANT TO TRY SOMETHING NEW? See coupons in the yellow pages of your Campus Telephone D~rectoryl PAYABLE UPON RETURN PAYABLE  Dec 7. 1983 Is 1! really comparable to Pean Harbor? JEFF JANUS SO HOW IS ROME AT CHRISTMAS TIME? TOO BAD YOU ARE NOT AROUND FOR FINALS AND MASSIVE SNOWBALL BATILES. WHEN YOU GET HOME IT IS MY TURN TO COOK DO YOU LIKE CHICKEN WITH FRENCH DRESSING FOR A CHANGE? HAVE A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND WE MISS YOU LOADS' LOVE JODY P S. ROME WILL NEVER BE THE SAME NOW THAT YOU'VE HIT IT STEVE SPRIGG: Will you gel a real gUitar and play some real music M1ke Sa1n· When lhe whole class IS yell1ng thai you p1mped us. you ve got to cons1der the possibility that you may have pimped  
2.0 WHILE REMAINING IN A STATE OF CONSTANT INEBRIATION IS A FAR BEITER MAN THAN I TO SHOW YOU MY SINCERITY. I HAVE GONE TO THE REGISTRAR TO CHANGE MY MAJOR TO BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. TONITE. I WILL TRADE IN MY THERMO BOOK FOR CRAYOLA CRAYONS SIGNED, A THROAT PITISBURGH··NEED RIDE. CAN LEAVE MONDAY 19, AFTER 5. CALL LARRY 1487 ILOST/FOUND I HELPI someone piCked up my hght brown gloves w1th wool hn~ng at the l1b<ary on 11­30. Please call paul at 1647 d )OU found them  LOST.Piast1c Santa. Last seen sway1ng 1n the w1nd out 4th floor w1ndow Farley MUST BE RETURNED BY DEC.24 t Please report any 1nlormat1on lead1ng to h1s whereabouts to Farley Section 4A or North Pole as soon as poSSible Found: Em' ~rry Christmas. Kd URGENT: Lost ­Set of keys w~h It21 pnnted on them, attached to Leprechaun key chain. Call N1ck (houseboy) at 8291 1f found. Hurry! Its tough to crawl1n the wm­ctow on 11th floor GraceI  NEED RIDE TO D.C. FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 5 P.M. ON MON.12/19CALLMEGAN4238SMC. need ride to D.C. or Roanoke. Can leave 12/21. call Mike Skelly at 3342. DETROITERSII INTERESTED IN CHRISTMAS BUS? CALL MARY (4514) OR JOE (1154) BEFORE TUESDAY Need nde to Columbus(Worthlnglon) on Wed. Dec. 21st. Returning Jan. 16. Will share usual. Dav1d 3127. Need a nde to PITISBURGH Can leave 12/21 AM. Mary 1324 NEED RIDE TO NORTH. NJ/NY AREA FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE MORNING. DEC. 21 PLEASE CALL JANET AT 4673 HELP NEED RIDE TO PITISBURGH ON  Need nders to ConnectiCut. Fairfield County area. Leav1ng Tues .. Dec. 20. Call Nancy-283-6868. FOR SALE TAKING THE MCATS THIS SPRING? STANLEY KAPLAN S MCAT COURSE BOOKS FOR SALE BEST OFFER CALL 284-5249 LARGE HOUSE FOR SALE Near NO golf course. 5 bedrooms up. 3 baths. fireplace. carpets, garage and more. Fuel saver, low maintenance, warranty $84,000. 289-1687 SHEEP FOR SALE CALL SHEEP­WOMAN AT 2912  UPON RETURN A Juniper Press Publica­tion. A great Chnstmas g1ft. Available at the Notre Dame Bool<store. SCHOLASTIC FICTION CONTEST SUBMIT TO 3RD FLOOR LAFORTUNE OFFICE DEADLINE· JANUARY 20 MAX­IMUM LENGTH­15 PAGES BE A PUBLISHED AUTHOR!' SCHOLASTIC FICTION CONTEST!' To the p1ano player who has my copy of Linus and Lucy· (Is it Jeff? from Fisher?)· Give 11 backi-Bob (3283) Please. please. please SAY SAY SAY you can g1ve me a ride home for Chnstmas. I live in New Jersey (I can't help that) and I cant leave unt1l6 05 p.m. on the 21st (I can·r help thai e1ther ) It you can offer me a nde. please call Sarah at 1311. Will pay the usual  us INSAINITY INSAJNITY INSAINIT ft's justinSainlty. STEVE SPRIGG: Transfer to NebraSka ELAINE MANCHON, YOU HEDONISTIC ANIMALII!I WE HAVE TO DO READING ON THE SIDE JUST TO KEEP UP WITH YOUI-SIGNED, THE SOUTH QUAD. PHOBIA OF THE DAY Aulophobia -Fear ot flutes  
FOUND A Silver hand held OIQ~al Clock 1n a brown case. Friday niQht at Fa~e~·s Red and Green Party To claim please call PatriCk at 1754  FOR RENT  EITHER DEC. 19 OR DEC. 20 FOR BREAK CALL 6833-ANN NEED RIDERS TO NORTHERN N.J OR  Alan 2600VCS video game w/accessones. Excellent condition. Price negotiable. Call John x t 160  DETROITERSI INTERESTED IN CHRiSTMAS BUS? CALL MARY (4514) OR JOE (1 !54) BEFORE TUESDAY  Too much information Running through my brain; Too much information  
Lost·Woman·s gold watch. Bet Farley and O'Shag on t 2/5 It found. PLEASE CALL6881  MOVING OFF CAMPUS? Next Sem. or next year ·. call ·us hrst. Tom or Louise McGann 2n-3461 or2722·9299  NYC I'OR CHRISTMAS BREAK LEAVING SOMETIME THE NIGHT OF WED.. THE 21ST IF INTERESTED CALL JERRY AT 1850  NOTRE DAME HOUSE FOR SALE -$30.000. 4·bedroom. 15 m1ns. from .campus, Good 1nvestmenl for parents  MIKEY HAPPY 211 DON T DO ANY­THING WE WOULDN'T DO : .ON SECOND THOUGHT BEHAVE YOUR­SELF LUV. CHRISSEY AND FLUFFY  Driving me insane. -The Pollee  
Call291·2152 in eveninQ.  

----~---~ 
Monday, December 12, 1983-page 9 
The Observer 
NFL Standings 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE East 

w L T Pet. Washington 13 2 0 .867 Dallas 12 3 0 .800 St. Louis 7 7 1 .500 Philadelphia 5 10 0 .333 N.Y. Giants 3 11 1 .233 
Central Detroit 8 7 0 .533 Green Bay 7 7 0 ~500 Minnesota 7 8 0 .467 Chicago 7 8 0 . 467 Tampa Bay 2 12 0 .143 
West San Francisco 9 6 0 .600 LA Rams 8 7 0 .533 New Orleans 8 7 0 .533 Atlanta 6 9 0 .400 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East 

W L T Pet. Miami 11 4 0 .733 Buffalo 8 7 0 .533 
New England 8 7 0 .533 N.Y. Jets 7 8 0 .467 Baltimore 6 9 0 .400 
Central Pittsburgh 10 5 0 .667 Cleveland 8 t7 0 ~533 Cincinnati 7 8 0 .467 Houston 2 13 0 .133 
PF 510 462 343 226 245 
324 396 296 288 212 
390 335 295 339 
PF 335 269 268 299 244 
338 326 332 278 
PA 310 318 321 291 315 
266 407 334 280 345 
296 320 311 375 
PA 236 320 265 297 344 
273 325 282 440 
West 

L.A. Raiders  11  4  0 .733  412  324  
Denver  9  6  0 .600  285  279  
Seattle  8  7  0 .533  379  391  
San D1ego  6  9  0 .400  344  342  
Kansas City  5  10  0 .333  338  350  

Saturday's Results Pittsburgh 34. N.Y~ Jets 7 Miami 31, Atlanta 24 
-Yesterday's Results Chicago 19, Minnesota 13 Houston 34. Cleveland 27 San Francisco 23, Buffalo 10 Seattle 17, N~Y. Giants 12 Cincinnati 17, Detroit 9 New Orleans 20. Philadelphia 17 (QT) San Diego 41 , Kansas C~y 38 New England 21, LA Rams 7 St. Louis 34. L.A. Raiders 24 Denver 21, Baltimore 19 Washington 31, Dallas 10 
Today's Games Green Bay at Tampa Bay 
....................... 
• t( 'l'jfl· Jr..-' ./ • 
: cAME'CbT o'RGINIZATIONAL: : T' MEETING : 
e For those interested in e 
8 PRODUC~ON e 
: PUBLICITY : 
e and e 
e MAKING IT HAPPENI e • Tuesday, December 13 • : 7:00, LaFortune Little Theater : 
....................... 
NFL roundup 
Redskins scalp Cowboys by 21 
Associated Press 
The Washington Redskins blitzed the Dallas Cowboys 3I-I0 in their long-awaited rematch yesterday, and a host of underdogs had their day as the playoffpicture sharpened a bit with one weekend still left in the National Football League season. 
The Denver Broncos clinched an AFC wild-card playoff spot when they beat the Baltimore Colts 2I-19. 
The day's results left the other AFC wild-card berth still open. Buf­falo, New England, Cleveland and Seattle are in the hunt. 
Seattle has the inside track be­cause of a better conference record. The Seahawks, who beat the New York Giants I 7-12 yesterday, can clinch a berth with a victory next week over New England. 
The Pittsburgh Steelers, I 0-5, who beat the New York Jets 34-7 Saturday, secured the AFC Central Division title when the Houston Oilers downed the Cleveland Browns 34-27 for only their second victory in I5 games. The AFC East champions, the Miami Dolphins, 11­4, also won Saturday, beating Atlanta 3I-24. 
Both Dallas and Washington have already qualified in the NFC. The Redskins have but to beat the lowly New York Giants next Saturday at home to qualify as the East winner, while the Cowboys face the 49ers next Monday night. 
The San Francisco 49ers, New Or­leans Saints, Detroit Lions, Los An­geles Rams and Green Bay Packers are still in contention for the last three berths. 
The 49ers beat Buffalo 23-IO, the Saints defeated Philadelphia 20-1 7 in overtime, the Lions lost to Cincin­nati 17-9, the Rams lost to New England 2I-7 and Green Bay has two 

Christmas Jl;J" 
1753 E 12th St. 

Parties? 
Mishawaka, ln. CALL 255-7797 Cold Meat Trays••• 
Small $18 Large $30 
Cheese Trays••• 

Small $15 Large $25 
Vegetable Trays (with dip)••• 
Small $14.50 Large $19.50 
Party Subs••• 

3/eet$306/eet$50 
CALL FOR DETAILS 
games left, including Tampa Bay on Monday night. 
Also, the Chicago Bears knocked the Minnesota Vikings out ofplayoff contention with a I9-I3 victory and St. Louis was eliminated from mathe­matical contention despite a 34-24 victory over the Los Angeles Raiders. 
In a game involving two teams out 

of the playoff picture, Rolf 
Benirschke kicked a 28-yard field 
goal with two seconds left to give 
San Diego a 4I-38 victory over 
Kansas City. 
Joe Theismann threw for two touchdowns, John Riggins ran for two more and Washington's defense shackled Tony Dorsett and vic­timized Danny White as the Redskins seized first place in the NFC East. 
"I wouldn't have thought it would be like this," said Washington Coach Joe Gibbs."It was just one of those things where we got things going our way. Everybody on our side fully believeswe will play them again and that will be the biggie." 
Fullback Mosi Tatupu ran for three touchdowns to power New England over the error-prone Rams, 8-7, who dropped into second place in the NFC West behind the 9-6 49ers. 
Defensive tackle Elois Grooms rumbled 40 yards with a fumble recovery for a touchdown in the waning seconds of the first half for one offour straight St. Louis TDs in a span of I6:30 that lifted the Car­dinals over the AFC West champion Raiders. 
Quarterback John Elway, spar­kling against the team he wouldn't play for, fired three touchdown passes in a furious fourth-quarter ral­ly as Denver overcame a 19-0 deficit and squeeked past Baltimore. 

University of Notre Dame 
Office of 
the Registrar 
Unir•ersity Rexistrar 
Daniel H. Winicur, Ph.D. 

Academic lnj(Jnnation 
239-704:\ 
! C.\.I~­3~T ,Cc-· <l. 
~OAIBC 
tO"\S9::J. 

ATTENTION!! ALL CONTINUING STUDENTS 
You must enroll for the 1983/84 Spring semester, even if you have advance registered. • • ... • ... • ..._ -" • 
Enrollment for upperclass and_graduate students for the Spring 1983/84 semester will be held on Tuesday, January 17, 1984, between 8:30AM and-3~·15 PM in the ACC. Freshman will enroll at the Stepan Center between 8:30AM and and 2:00 PM. These times supercede any previously announced times. 
-

Enrollment consists of obtaining and completing an enrollment form which must be signed and given to an enrollment clerk, together with your student I.D. card. The clerk will stamp the form and give you a copy. 
If you do nor enroll by the end of the Add/Drop period (January 26, 1984), even 
if he/she has advance registered, you will be removed from the revised class lists Late enrollment will be permitted only under "extenuating personal circumstances." Permission of your Dean is necessary and a charge of $25.00 will be assessed. 
DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD 
Your Spring seme·ster class schedule together with your Fall iiemester grade report will be mailed to your 
HOME ADDRESS (undergraduate students) LOCAL ADDRESS (graduate students) 
Make sure you inform the Registrar's Office (graduate students should notify the Graduate School) of any change of address before you leave Notre Dame for the "break." 
'"-' 

y .. · YA2
~· If you do not have the class schedule which willbe mailed to you, you will be '~~~.""'~~~~~~pie to obtain a copy at the Registrar'$0ffice?' However, this will entail waiting uc. ~ ':·;t··in line and could result in a considerable wait (and a waste of your time). 
li:t ,-. ,oe,_. 116) 926.-..Ji(.J • . . . , . 
~-WL -~ 

~I C13T?.~-__,.Jtyou have any qu~~lions, cohtact the Registrar's Office (ext.7043). 
0 1
~,: ' ~ \1\fl 1A::J \ <oU8 2AMT81RH::J smsg ·" ' ' d-
Daniel H. Winicur University Registrar 
Monday, December 12, 1983-page 10
, The Observer 
Drop to 2-5 

Belles drop two over weekend 
By DAVE WILSON 
.\jmrts lflrlter 
Bringing the first portion of the l9H~-H4 basketball season to a close, the Saint Mary's basketball squad lost a coupk of frustrating contests over the weekend, to extend a losing streak to three, and lower the season's record to a dismal 2-'5. The Bdles were victims ofa 70-'57 defeat by the Princes of Hdddherg Colh:gt: Friday night, and were beaten again on Saturday afternoon H4-'51, when tht· team played at Findlay College against tht· Oilers. 
"It's very discouraging", admitted 
senior t·o-captain Cyndy Short. "We 
wert· so dett·rmined going into the 
weekt·nd because we were coming 
offa loss at home, and the team real­
ly wanted to turn things around." 
Friday night's contest against Hciddherg was tht· better perfor­mance of the two, as most of the team agree<\. The Princes jumped out to a 2~-6 lead early in tht· first half, capitalizing on turnovers and poor shooting by Saint Mary's, hut the Belles fought hack for the rt·maindt:r of the half, and were able to knot the score at 34-34 hy halftime. In fact, the team remained in the game until just seven minutes to play. hut tht·n Ht:iddherg took ad­vantage offurther turnovers and foul trouble to pull away to victory. 
"I'm happy with our play, despite the loss," said head coach Mike Roust·. "We still have problems with turnon·rs, and our rebounding could he better. hut I'm just glad we stuck with them as long as we did." 
The Belles have had better statis­tics. They shot just 32 percent from the field on 19 of '59 attempts, whilt: converting 7'5 percent of their free throw attempts on I H of 24 shots. Heidelberg outrebounded Saint Mary's, 4~-26. Furtht:rmore, foul trouble hampered tht: play of Mary McQuillan, Betsy Eht:rt, and Beth Kreher, and freshman guard Kris Pantelleria, who led the team in 
• • . Women 

----------:-:-~.~-.a.-... 
continuedfrom page /2 
ktdown after last week's tough loss 
at Northwestern. 
"Tht: players shouldn't ex­
perience things like that," she ex­
plained. "Michigan was scrappy and 
did a lot ofunpredi<:tahk things. We 
just made too many mistakes." 
"We played with them instead of 
playing like we can," said Keys. "We 
just laid back too much." 
The game did have some good points, though. Keys appears ready to get hack on track and provide a good portion of the offensive production. Tht· inside play ofWillis has also been a pleasant surprise. Despite averaging a little more than 
12 minutes a game. she is pulling 
down four rebounds a game. 
"Lavetta's a gamer," said DiStanis­
lao. "Sht: plays hard and shows a lot 
of heart. Trena just needs to be 
confident in what she's doing and 
she'll gt·t even ht:tter." 
Kt·ys also realizes that she can per­form evt:n hettt:r than I 7 points and nine rebounds. 
"I did all right, hut I didn't play as well as I can," she said. "I've got to concentrate more when I'm taking shots. I haven't ht:en jumping high enough on my shots. I just have to have confidence." 
Her good performance against Michigan should help her con­fidence, but, like the ::est ofthe team, she will need to cut down on mistakes if the team is going to ac­complish anything this year. The upcoming games against Western M i<:higan ( W ednestlay night) and Ccntral Michigan ( Deccmbcr 21 ) will ht.· important as thc team will try to t1nd a groovc to carry it through a difficult schedulc over hrcak. 
scoring with 12 points, was in and out of the game with anklc and back injuries. Short also put in 12 points 

for the Belles, while Elaine Suess 
scurcd l 0 points, and Krebcr pullcd 
down l l rebounds. 
Against Findlay on Saturday, Saint Mary's again found trouble with tur­novers and rebounding. Thirty-two turnovers, and just I H rcbounds to Findlay's 47, allowcd thc opponcnt to open up a fiftccn-point lead by halftimc ( 4~-28 ), and 10 extend that kad to twenty-five later in the sccond half. 
"We just havc to play better, that's alither t e is 10 it", said Rouse. "Whcn you're down by that many points, you lose your concentration and desire to win." 
The team was cold in shooting again, as they converted 19 of 45 at­tempts from the field for 42 percent, and just 13 of 23 free throw at­tempts. Pantelleria was again the leading scorer with 12 points, while Kreher and Suess both scored nine points. 
The Belles will now take a much-needed brcak from their season, returning January 4 to prepare for the National Catholic Baskctball Tournament, January 11-15, in Dubuque, Iowa. The team will first mcct Tcnnessee Christian, the tournament's fourth secd. 
"I think thc break comcs at a good time", commented junior guard Mary McQuillan. "We'll return with fresh attitudes, and will be ready to face new opponents." 
Buy 
Observer 
Classifieds 
j,

r••••••••••••••• 6.50 Savings •·~···--•••••, 
1 Witt iKniglfta nftlttC!tastlt 
I ,, II
I 
minutes from campus 
I I I 

I I Hair Cut Shampoo I Blow Dry & Condition 
54533 Terrae• Lane, Soutll Band (Aerosa from 

Reg. $15·00 
Martin's on S.R. Z3) Now $8·50 with coupon 
1 , w 8:30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons 
Th 8:30-8:30 
Fr 8:30-6:00 
s 8:30-2:30 

Closed Man 277-1691 272·Ga12 ----------------A !;0 SAvinn!': --•-•••••••-..-•.1 
r---------------------------------------1
ONLY $400 I MONTH ! The Notre Dame Ave. Apts. f for the 84-85 school year ! 
I 
I
:Spaciously & nicely furnished I 
I I
I 

I I
I Cenven-iently located near
I 
I 

I Notre Dame and the Bars
I I I I 

I I Call234-6647 for more info
I 
I 

L-------------------------------····----~ 
MESSAGE FROM couNSELI N E 239·7793 
As the end of the semester nears, we understand what it's like to cope with all the various things which you as a student experience. We hope that you will consider using our services as a resource for coping with these last, hectic days. We are a free, confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped materials covering a variety of student concerns. Take a look at our list below, you may find something to help you as the semester draws to a close. Call us at 239-7793 
Hours: 4:00 to 1O:OOpm, Mon. • Thurs. 
TAPE NO TITLE 44 Lertrnmg to Accept Yourself 1 Fnend!htp Butldtng 61 Whalts Therapy & How to Use 11 
7 Dealing wtlh Construcltve CrtltC•sm 83 How to Cope wttt: a Broken 8 Dealing w•lh Anger Relattonsh•p 9 Understandmg Jealousy and How 85 UMerstandmg Gr1ef 
to Deal wtlh II 90 He1p1ng a Fnend 10 How to Say NO' 160 Early s•gns ol an Alcohol Problem 16 Becommg Open to O&hers 161 Aespons1ble DeCISIOns About 
18 Oat eng Sktlts Drmkmg 30 Anx•ety and Posstble Ways to Cope .W2 Seii-Asserllveness 
!Ntlh It 431 Wha!IS Oepress1on 32 How to Deal wtlh Lonleness 432 How IO Deal Wllh DepreSSIOn 33 How to Handle Fears 433 Depress1on as a L•le Style 
35 8UIIdtng self-Esteem & Confidence 478 Becommg Independent frQm Parents 37 Retail tOO Ew:erctses -479 Dealing w1th Alcoholic Parents 
38 Copeng w•tfl Stress 491 Su1C1dat Cus1s 39 Female Se• Role·· 492 Recognlllng Su1c1dal Potential Changes and Stress mOther! A93 Helping So~~.C?.~!~.~.SuiCidal Cr1s1s 
Counseline is a completely anonymous service offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center University of Notre Dame For further information or assistance call 
C&PSC 239·7336 Counseline: 239·7793 
Friday night's Results Saturday's Results Notre Dame women 66, Michigan women Notre Dame 68, Lehigh 46 50 Lehigh (46) Michigan (50) M FG·A FT·A R F p 
M FG-A 1-"T-A R F p W1ekman 34 4-11 0-2 11 4 8 Bradet1ch 35 8-14 2-5 8 4 18 Gregory 10 0-2 2-2 0 3 2 Soullier 32 2-12 0-2 6 2 4 Moran 37 4-11 0-0 4 4 8 Svoboda 30 1-6 3-4 7 3 5 Androlew1cz 28 3-7 0-0 2 1 6 Lilly 12 1-6 0-0 3 0 2 Polaha 33 4-9 2-3 5 3 10 Gnatkowskl 14 1-2 0-0 3 1 2 Bryant 1 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Middleton 20 1-6 0-1 4 2 2 Donwell 16 2-5 0-0 3 1 4 Smith 31 5-17 1-1 6 3 11 McKay 4 2-2 0-0 0 0 4 Wiley 15 2-6 0-0 2 1 4 Belson 3 0-2 0-0 1 1 0 Morozko 7 1-3 0-0 0 5 2 Murphy 5 0-4 0-0 0 1 0 Remb1sz 4 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 Lee 11 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 200 22-73 6-13 40 21 50 Turocy 1 1-1 0-0 2 0 2 Dowling 13 1-3 0-0 3 2 2
Notre Dame (66) 

Henderson 4 0-0 0-0 0 1 0
M FG-A FT-A R F p 
200 21-59 4-7 32 21 46
Ka1ser 24 2-7 0-0 6 1 4 
Notre Dame (68)

Bates 32 5-7 3-5 6 2 13 p
M FG-A FT·A R F 
Schueth 14 2-4 2-4 2 0 
6 Dolan 35 3-9 0-1 8 3 6 
Ebben 30 5-9 2-2 6 0 12 
Royal 12 2-4 0-3 2 3 4 
Thompson 30 1-5 3-4 4 1 
5 Barlow 35 8-16 2-4 9 0 18 
Keys 30 7-16 3-4 9 1 17 
Duff 33 2-6 0-1 4 0 4 
Dougherty 10 0-2 0-0 1 2 0 Sluby 14 2-4 0-0 1 0 4 Willis 20 2-3 3-3 7 3 
7 Hicks 20 3-9 0-0 5 1 6 
Basford 10 1-3 0-0 1 1 
2 Spencer 1 0-0 0-0 2 0 0
200 25-56 16-22 42 11 
66 Newell 1 0-0 1-2 0 0 1
FG Pet .446. FT Pet. -.727. Team 
Bowen 2 0-0 0-0 1 0 0
rebounds -4. Turnovers -23. Ass1sts -17 
Price 21 4-7 t-3 3 3 9
(Thompson 7). Technicals-D1Stanislao. 

Kempton 23 5-9 4-5 8 5 14
Halft1me-Notre Dame 28. M1chigan 23 Of-
Rucker 3 1-1 0-0 0 0 2
ficials-B1ll Mart1n. Ron loran. A-210. 

200 30-65 8-19 43 15 68 
\
"How to Survive Exam Week" 
Workshop presented by UNO Counseling~ Psychological Services Center , Dec. 14, Wednesday 6:30-8:30pm,) 
Pasquerilla West: Chapel Lounge 

Keeping Up With The Times 
Specia·l low rates for campus delivery of The New York Times w1.ll again be available at 30\ off the single-copy price. This discount rate of ill per copy lS good only for weekday and Saturday papers. sunday papers are ava1.lable on a subscription basis also, but no discount is given. 
Papers will he delive~ed by 9:00a.m. on the day of publication to 
dorms and faculty off1ces. 

Your paper can be guaranteed for the first day of deliVery on January 19 only if parment is received by January 17. Dell.very for orders received after January 19 will begl.n within J days, and refund.J will be granted in case of overpayment. 
Please mail the bottom portion of this slip to: 
George Devenny 
145 Stanford Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Couryt me in for The Ne"'' York Times! I w1.ll subscr1.be: 1 
Spring Term -January lB -May 6 
Monday-Friday $24. BS Monday-Saturday 29.40 Monday-Sunday 61.90 sunday only 32.50 
There will not be dehvery March 17 thtpugh March 25 and Aprll 20 through April 2J. 1'. . 
Enclosed is tny check payable to GeQrge ai!venny 1.n the amount of 
s___ ... 
...... 

Name_______~-----------­
....._Ad~ress--~--------------­
Plto"ne • • • • 

IIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIItllllllllllffiiiiiiiiiiHI..........IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItll 
.·.·.· ......·..·•.
·-·····' 



----~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
']I['~4tll.at~--------------------------------------M-o_n_d_a_y_,D
__ec_e_m_b_e_r_1_2_,_1_98-3----p-ag_e_l__l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Campus · 

student union takes you to . .. 
Ft. Lauderdale 
including *7 nights Sheraton Yankee Trader 
•Round trip motor coach 
$289 
ooO 

START THINKING ABOUT SPRING BREAK!!! 
S.U. takes you to 
O'HARE~ 
~.;...--.........~~""-(2,o

$9.50 
Buses from Main Circle to Chicago December 21 & 22 · 6:30pm Sign up at S.U. Ticket Office I Record Store 
~ 

Monday, December 12, 1983 -page 12 
Sports 
Second-half surge defeats Engineers 
By PHIL WOLF 
.\j)()rts Writer 
The: Notrt· Dame: men's basketball team came alivt· in the: sc:coml halfto down outclassed Lt·high University, 68-·16, Sawrday in the: Athlc:tk and Convocation Center. 
Behind strong second-half perfor­mances by Ken Harlow and Tim Kt·mpton, tht· Irish broke away from a .26-.26 halftime: tic:, and led by as much as .2~ points en route to the: .2.2-point victory. 
It looked like: the Irish might open up tht· game: early, as they jumped to an 8-4 lead, hitting four of four at­tempts from the floor, before: three minutes had c:lapsed in the: game. Outside jump shots by Dan Duff, Barlow, and Tom Sluby and a driving layup by Donald Royal accounted for the lri~h points. 

The Engineers. however, were: dt·tnmint·d to May with the Irish, and tht·y never trailed by more than six in the tirst half. 
The ganll' was tkd six times in the: half as the: Engineers brought the hall upcourt quickly, often before tht· Notre: Dame: press was set, for layups and short jumpers. 
Another reason that Lehigh was able to kn·p up with tht· Irish was that the Engineers. who had an ob­vious height disadvantage, tied Notre Damt· in fir~t-half rebounding, .20-.20. 
"I was in a po:o.ition at halftime to givt· them ( tlw Irish) my Christmas blessing," said Notre Dame coach Diggn Phelps. 
"I asked them, 'What did Lt·high do w t dJr Thc:y got offensivt· and 

ddi:nsivt·  rebounds,  they  had  
patknce.  and  they  hustled.  We:  
didn't do  thosc: things in the  first  
half."  

Tom Sluby got Notre Dame offto a good start in the second half when he: stole the hall from Lehigh and drove down the court for a layup. 
llnfortunatcly, Sluby had to lc:ave the game at that point because of an injury he: sustained in the first half Three minutes before halftime, Sluby had ht·en kicked in tht· ar<:h of his foot while driving downcourt, and Phelps said that he was not ahk' to continue playing. 
Sluhy. who had been Notre Damt·s's leading S(.'Ort·r in five of the first six games, averaging 14.8 per y,ame. sat down with only four points for the day. 

Defeat Lake Forest 
Then it was time for Barlow and Kempton to take over. 
With 18:38 remaining in the game, Barlow took a jim Dolan miss and slammed it home with two hands to bring the crowd to its feet. 
Barlow scored six of Notre Dame's next nine points, with Kt·mpton grabbing the other three. 
Lehigh still only trailed by one, :W-38, with 14: 14 remaining, hut the Irish rallied behind eight more points from Kempton to take a commanding 55-38lead. 
During Notre Dame's 16-point scoring spree, Dolan rammed home his second slam dunk ofthe day, this time with an assist from Kempton. 
Kempton, who had been booed at halftime for a scoreless first half. fouled out with 3:50 remaining in the gan1e. As he walked off the court, the crowd acknowledged his 14 sc:cond-half points with a. huge ova­tion. 
After the game, Kempton said t he does not blame the fans for the fair­weather treatment he has received, citing the frustration caused by mt·diocre performances by the foot­hall and basketball teams in recent seasons. 
"The school's been down. Iatc:ly," he said. "I know it's hard for them (the fans). too." 
Harlow finally left the game at 
I:26 with a game-high 18 points, ten ofwhich came in the second half. He 
also recc::ived  an  ovation from  the  
crowd of I0,592.  
Joseph  Price also added  to  the  

second-half scoring effort with 9 points. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame's defense worked on the Engineers, forcing 16 turnovers and allowing only one Lehigh player to score in double tigures. 
Mike Pola.ha took the honors for the Engineers with ten points, while Mike Androlewicz, who had scored .36 points in Lehigh's previous two games, was held to only six on Satur­day. 
"If I had to pick an MVP today, it would he Ken Barlow," Phelps said after the game. He also commended Kt·mpton and Price for their perfor­
mances. 

"The most important thing to do today was to get Barlow, Kempton, and Price some <:onfidence," he said. 
Phelps said this confidence is im­
see MEN, page 8 


Women's basketball 
Sluggish Irish defeat Michigan 
He's your man! 
Ken Barlow led all scorers with 18pointsas the Irish m•ercame a group offies~y Engineers from Lehigh, 68-46. A second-htl/fsurge by the high-flying Barlow and Tim Kempton broke a 26-26 halftime lie. See Phil Wolfs story at left. 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 

When Michigan's 6-7 center Lynn Morozko sprinted -well, let's say she waddled -onto the court six minutes into Friday night's Michigan-Notre Dame women's bas­ketball game, she seem determined to set a record for most fouls in a 
Irish sweep, stay undefeated 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
LAKE FOREST. Ill. -Lake Forest College became the third varsity op­ponent to fall to the Notre Dame hockey team this season. In the home-and-home: series, which began Friday at the ACC and con­cluded with the Saturday contest at Lake Forest, the Irish remained un­beaten as they swept the Foresters hy identical 'i-2 S(.'Ores. 
The first half of the 1983-84 sc:ason is now history and the Notre Dame team is tht· proud owner of a 
1.2-0-I record. 
The line of sc:niors Mike Metzler and Adam Parsons and junior co­<:aptain Brent Chapman, played an instrumt·ntal part in the weekend's succ·ess. They accounted for st·ven ofthe team's ten goals. 
Goaltenders Tim Lukemia and AI Haverkamp both turned in superb performances in the nets on Friday a.nd Saturday respectively. 
Some inconsistent play in the: ear­ly going combined with 12 first­period penalties could have done Notre Dame in on Friday. But some sharp goaltending by Lukenda kept the Irish in the game and enabled them to grab a 2-1 lead after a period. 

Lake Forest came out flying right from the opening face-off, hitting the Irish with an aggressive forecheck. Notre Dame used some intimidation of its own, however, to slow the Foresters and wasted little time capitalizing on a powerplay just I :33 into the game. Metzler got the goal with assists from Parsons and Chap­man. 
Then with Notre Dame playing shorthanded, one: of eight times in the period, senior co-captain Joe Bowie rifled home a shot to put the Irish up 2-0. 
Lake Forest finally got on the board at I0:26 as Kevin Collins pulled the Foresters to within one. 
Only one goal was scored in the second period. The Irish upped their kad to 3-l just past the midway point as Metzler picked up his second goal of the night. Chapman and Parsons again had the assists. 
Notre Dame held onto its two goal 
lead until the 15:23 mark of the final 
stanza when Lake Forest's Tim Locke 
beat Lukenda while the Irish wt:re 
shorthanded. 

Two goals just 42 seconds apart in the last four minutes sealed the vic­tory for Notre Dame. Junior Tim Reilly picked up the fourth goal .and Parsons had the fifth. 
Lukenda kicked out 31 shots for the win. 
"We got offto a slow start and had too many penalties," said Metzler. "Lukenda saved us. We could easily have been down by three or four in the first period." 
The Foresters returned to their home arena Saturday hoping to avenge Friday's loss, but found no advantage. 
The Irish started slowly, but even­tually built up a commanding 4-0 lead after two and a half periods. 
Chapman started things out for Notre Dame on a powerplay at the 
13:43 mark of the opening period. Metzler and Parsons were credited with the assists. 
see HOCKEY, page 8 

game. She was only allowed five, 
though, and, seven minutes of 
playing time later, she was chugging 
back to the bench after fouling out. 
That's what kind ofgame it was ­
sloppy -as the Irish overcame 23 
turnovers to defeat an inferior Wol­
verine team, 66-50. The win brought 
Notre Dame's record to an even 3-3 
with exams fast approaching. 
Awin is a win, and this win goes in 
the same column as a win over 
UCLA, but the team will have to play 
better ifit hopes to be in contention 
for an NCAA Tournament bid in 
March. 

"This was our most disjunct game so far this year," said Notre Dame coach Mary DiStanislao. "We made a lot ofmental errors which is evident in the number of turnovers." 
It was a night where the superior Notre Dame talent and the superior Notre Dame bench were able to overcome the turnovers and mistakes and keep the Irish out of danger for the entire game. Michi­gan could get no nearer than eight points in the last 1 7 minutes of the game, and was able to score con­Sefutive baskets only three times in the last half. 
The first ten minutes of the game seemed to set the stage for the rest of the game. The Irish took advantagt: of the weaker Wolverines to jump out to an easy I l-2 lead, hit a five­minute period of poor shooting and turnovers to let Michigan IY.tck into the game, and then suddenly turnt:d things around again and scored eight 
of the next 10 points to open up an­other comfortable lead. 
The teams traded baskets for the rest of the half until Michigan was able to convert on three con­secutive foul shots after a technical foul call on DiStanislao. The three points brought the Wolverines to within five, 28-23, at halftime. 
The momentum seemed to he on Michigan's side when the teams came out for the second half. but, less than two minutes later, the Irish began a surge that put the Wol­verines away for good. 
Led by sophomore forward Trena Keys. who led the Irish with I 7 points and a personal:best nine rebounds, Notre Dame stretched a three-point lead to 16 points in I'i minutes. Keys, who had been in something of a shooting slump for the last few games, began to break out of it in the: half. She also teamed with freshman Lavetta Willis to con­trol the boards and keep the poor­shooting Wolverines from getting back into the game. 
Michigan did not help its own chances as it shot a paltry 30 percent from the field and 46 percent from the foul line. In fact, the Wolverines took I 7 more shots than the: Irish and made three less. They also com­mitted 19 turnovers, blowing any chance they might have had of taking advantage of Irish mistakes. 
Despite the easy win, however. DiStanislao was not very pleased with her team's performance. 
"What our kids have to realize is that you don't play opponents, you play basketball," she said. "They have to learn to make the transition from defense to offense better. We 
turned the ball  over and failed  to  
capitalize on mistakes too often."  
DiStanislao  was  not  willing  to  

blame the poor performance on a see WOMEN, page 9 



