Irish Extra -page 9 
Plans for· Observer advisory board initiated llly University and College 
ByVIC SCIULLI 
Assistant News Editor 
University plans for an Observer advisory board have been form­ulated without the consent or knowledge of the Observer manage­ment, according to David Dziedzic, editor-in-chief. 
The Observer has learned that the plans, originally discussed last spring, are still underway through a letter dated Oct. I 0 from Father John Van Wolvlear, vice-president of student affairs, to Sister Karol Jack­owski, dean of students at Saint Mary's. 
"Last yearJim Roemer and myself suggested to The Obseroer staff that they should have an advisory hoard. Dave Dziedzic, the present Editor, favors this and is in the process of forming such a board," Van Wulvlear wrote. 
Dziedzic said he never approved a proposal that would create an ad­visory board for the paper as sug­gested by · the Vice Presidt~nt of Student Affairs and the Director of Student Activities. 
The proposal, presented to Dzied­zic and two other Observer employees by Father John Van Wolvlear and Dr. James McDonnell at a meeting last April, propost·d the creation of an advisory board to make post-publication critiques of the newspaper with regard to style, reporting and good journalistic practices. 
The meeting was arranged to dis­cuss increasing The Obsen;er stu­dent fee by S1 per semester, McDonnell said. 
"All ofus were in favor of it," Van Wolvlear said in reference to the proposal. "David bought the idea and called (Saint Mary's Public In­formation Officer) Karen Heisler and asked her to be on the board," 
he said.  
"He  thought  the  idea  was  
favorable,"  McDonnell  said.  
"(Dziedzic) was open to it."  

Dziedzic says he never supported the proposal and never called Heis­ler. 
"That's a lie. We have our own people to do what they suggested," Dziedzic said. 
The Observer has employed a professional consultant in the news department for more than two years. Walt Collins, the first consultant, was hired in September, 1981. Col· lins was hired by Notre Dame as editor ofNotre Dame Magazine. last spring. Tom Philipson is the current consultant. Both men have edited for the South Bend Tribune. 
Jackowski, who said she first learned of the board "informally" last spring, said she "did not know what to think" when she learned Oct. 14 from an Obseroer staff mem­ber that Dziedzic had never given his support to the suggestion. "My initial impression was that there was a misunderstanding, a lack com­munication," she said. 
Jackowski added, however, that she still believes the board would be a"goodidea." 
McDonnell said he discussed the idea of a board with Walt Collins shortly after the meeting with Dziedzic in the spring. Collins indi­cated that "he would be very happy to serve on the advisory commit­tee," McDonnell said. 
Collins, however. said he has never been contacted by McDonnell or anyone else in the administration about the advisory board. He said he first heard about the proposal for the board last month from an Obseroer staff member. 
Jackowski said she learned no­thing more about the proposal until the beginning of this year when she wrote a letter to Van Wolvlear. She said she asked Van Wolvlear about the status of the proposal and in­quired what the College could do to help. 
Jackowski said Van Wolvlear wrote back, telling her that ''Notre Dame would be handling this." 
She added that. though she was not sure where the idea had originated, she "was under the im· pression that Jim (McDonnell) and David Dziedcic were working on it." 
Jackowski said she believed that Heisler was asked to be on the ad­visory committee. Heisler said McDonnell asked her in June to con· sider being on such a committee. There were no definite plans at the time, she added. 
Jackowski said the issue has not been addressed by the senior of­ficers ofthe College. 
McDonnell said the idea for an ad­visory board is "not new" and that "recomendations have been made for several years. We are not the originators by any means." 
see BOARD page 5 

The Observer /Paul Kramer
Raising the Head 
Business professorjames Ward superz,ises the construction ofa 15-foot high Trojan Horse which will lead the Notre Damefootball team onto the field against the Universi~y ofSouthern California tomorrow. The last time a similar horse made an appearance at Notre Dame Stadium, the Fighting Irish, clad in green and gold uniforms, defeated the Trojans 49 to 19. 



What price integrity? an editorial 
Can you place a pricetag on a newspaper's in­regularities" in Observer finances. alumni board to serve as its ultimate governing tegrity? These "indications" were copies of Observer body. 
The University ofNotre Dame thinks it can, and In the audit report, the administration ques­
financial records provided to student government
it has offered $70,000 forThe Obseroer's integrity. tioned an interest-free loan to an Observer
by a former Observer staff member. 
As reported in yesterday'sObseroer, the Univer­employee. That loan helped finance a used car
Louis Cohen, director of internal auditing, was
sity has threatened to stop collecting student sub­which served during business hours as an official
aware ofthese allegations before the audit. Cohen
scription fees un:less the paper's business Observer vehicle for reporters and members of
saw a copy ofa University memo containing what
operations are turned over to the University's Unit he described as "hearsay-type allegations" the advertising staff. The loan was paid in full july Budget Control System. These fees amount to 1, the day the audit was published.
concerningThe Observer. 
$70,000 approximately one quarter of While Van Wolvlear contends the student The University cited The Observer for not 
revenues. 

government tip "mentioned incidents later soliciting documented bids for printing contracts. 
The Obseroer mmt control its own finances to 
brought out in the report," Cohen said "there was In recent years, The Observer has conferred or 
maintain the independence essential to editorial 
not much truth to (the allegations)." Reflecting contracted with every independent printer in the integrity, since any University control implies a 
on the audit, Cohen said "The Observer wasn't that area. 
conflict ofinterest when the paper reports on Uni­bad. It was a typical student-run organization. The University cited bonuses paid to the topversity matters. 
Things were questionable, but there was no out­three management personnel: editor, controller,The University accuses The Obseroer of not right thievery." and business manager. The report ignort=s similar living up to its financial responsibility. Yet the Uni­bonuses appropriated for all general board mem­
Though the University accused The Obseroer of
versity, by threatening to cut offstudent funds, is bers several times during the year to supplement a
"improper business procedures," the University
breaching its own 1970 agreement with The Ob­salary equalling less than $1.50 per hour.
did not follow normal business practice when it
seroer to collect student fees. 
The University stated that The Observer issued
did not show the paper's officers the audit before
That agreement was not questioned in 1977 41 checks with only one signature, despite a
it was released officially. In a disclaimer ac­
when University Officers decided to turn financial stated two-signature policy. Each check, however,
companying the report, the auditors admit that
control ofthe paper over to The Obseroer manage­
was verified by a telephone call from the bank or a
such a review is standard practice and "makes for
ment. "To encourage The Obseroer management 
letter to the bank from The Observer. 
a clean report without any ambiguous state­
to more independent planning of their resources ... The 0/:Jseroer will be responsible for ments ... or unresolved differences ofopinion." The University advised The Observer to begin 
"maintaining appropriate journals and ledgers."
meeting its own payroll and expense outside of No members of The Observer staff were ap­the University payroll system," the officers proached prior to the july I publication. This The Observer has implemented or agreed to implement all of the financial suggestions con­
decided, according to a letter signed by the vice could not be accomplished "without incurring president of student affairs in 1977. The student unknown delays," according to the report. The tained in the audit report. The newspaper has fee agreement was reinforced that same year the paper's managing editor, systems manager and begun double-entry bookkeeping and shifted 
from a cash-base to an accrual-base accountingwhen a majority of undergraduates voted to in­office manager, however, were available on system.
crease the student fee for the paper. campus throughout the summer. 
The Obseroer agn·ed to an internal University The University has issued an ultimatum to The While The Observer realizes the need for finan­audit last spring after requesting a $1 per semester Observer based on audit findings to which the cial accountability, surrendering Observer increase in student kes to offset rising production paper was not allowed to respond. The Observer finances to the University violates the costs. Fatherjohn Van Wolvlear, vice president of has countered the University's threats by propos-, newspaper's integrity. 
student affairs, recently admitted that the audit ing a program of strict internal controls, third The Observer will not allow the University to also was conducted because of "indications of ir-party accountability and the formation of an compromise its integrity -at any price. 

The Observer Friday, October 21, 1983-page 2 
In Brief 

A new shuttle schedule will be instituted on Monday, Oct. 31. The number of trips to University Village have hcen rt•duced, however, the bus now will enter University Village from Rt. 31/.B and will pass by A-B-C-D Buildings on the way to Douglas. These changes are a result of a survey among University Village residents. Also, hus service on home football weekends will not begin until the 6:55a.m. run from Saint Mary's. The 2:05p.m. run from LcMans Hall will be held up two minutes until 2:07 for those who leave class at 2:05. Finally, more buses will run the Saint Mary's­(;rotto route. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will depart Sunday 
on a WtTk-long rour of the upper Midwest. The final itinerary for tht· trip indudcs ~tops in Aurora, Ill.; Paducah, Ken.; St. Louis; Kansas City, Mo.; Mason City, Iowa; St. Paul, Minn.; Minneapolis, Minn.; Matli~on, Wi~. and Plaintidtl, Ill. The all-male singing group will relllrn to campus on Wt·tlnestlay, Nov. 2. -The Obsen•er 
The South Bend Police will be patrolling the Five Point~ art·a near Corhy\, Nickie's and Bridget McGuire's taverns with a lilllr-man walking beat tonight and Saturday night, said Cpl. Doug Way of the Northeast Station. In addition, he said the police may set up a decoy opt·ration in which officers go undercover in order to avert robbt·ries of studt·nts. -The Obsen•er 
The Conservative Caucus delivered 43,7oo 
signatures to the Whitt· Ilouse ycstntlay in a last-ditch effort to pcr· suade Prt·sitlcnt Rcagan to vt·to lcgislation crcating a national holiday in honor of Martin Luther KingJr. Thc petitions used King's own word~-that pt·opk should hc judgcd hy "the content of their dlaral'lt·r. not the color of thcir skin" -in urging Reagan to return to hits original opposition to thc mcasure. The bill, however, passed thc lloust· and St·natc by such lopsitlcd margins that Reagan would risk the futile and politically awkward t'xt·rdse ofseeing a veto over­ridden by Congress and the mcasurc enacted anyway. At his news conft.·rt'IKt' Wnlnt·stlay night, a fcw hours after the Senate voted ..,H-22 to establish a King holiday, the president reluctantly promisctl to sign tht· hill "sint-e they seem bent on making it a national holiday." Reagan did not make: clear who hc meant by "thcy," but said lw would have prefnred some observance of the slain civil rights lt·ader's birthday short ofestablishing a I Oth nat t ional holiday. 
-AP 

Disaster assistance requests, because of this 
)Tar's drought, are running mor~ than I 0 percent higher than originally extx-ctt·d, tht• Agriculture Department's top credit ofticial said )TStnday. I imler Secretary of Agriculture Frank Naylor, who ovt-rstTs credit operations of the Farmers Home Administration, said disastn tkdarations havt· ht·cn sought so far for 1.438 of the nation's mort· than .~.000 counties. USDA officials had originally predil'led rt·qut·sts from about I.300. "Wt· do expect a substantial upsurgt· in rt·qut·sts for emergency loans,.. Naylor told the Senate Agrkulturt· produl'tion suhcommittt•t·. With losses from the drought estimated at as much as S I0 hill ion nationwide, Naylor said l'SDA is prt·paring to handle the increased workload hy holstering its work force: and improving its management system. But he pointctl out that in m:un· CL~es the drought's adverse impact has been oft:~t·t for produtTr~ l;y federal crop insurance and their participation in the go\'t·rmt·nt's payment-in-kind. or PIK, prograru. -AP 
Of Interest 

Renowned architect Peter D. Eismman will speak this .tf'tt-rnoon at 'i in tht· Annt·nbcrg Auditorium of the Snitt· 1\lust·um. In I<)-(l, Fist'tHnan w:L., named architn:t-in-residt·nce at the American at·atkmy in Romt·. I know works with the Ohio Statt· \'isual Arts <.t·ntt-r in Columbus. Ohio. -7be Obserr•er 
The traditional pep rally bcforc all home games 
will ht·gin this t'\Tning at -in Stepan Center. llead Coach Gerry Faust; Olknsin· l.int· Coach Jim lliggins: Mike Shiner, a senior of­ft-nsivc strong tackk; and Larry Williams, junior quick tackle, will lll'atl tht· list of spt·akers. Students might also he able to get a tlrst glimpst· oftht· Trojan horse which is being constructed by account­ing professor James Ward and numerous student volunteers. -The Obserr•er 
A hospitality rally. sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley, will be held tonight at 8 in South Bend's Century Center. Notre: Dame celebrities, former IOotball players and media personalities will be on hand fur the rally before the USC game. -Tbe Obseroer 

Weather 

It could be soggy on Green Field. cloudy 
and nml today with a -!0 percent chance of rain. High in the mid to upper 'ills. Mild with an 80 percent chance of rain tonight and tomorrow at gamt· time, with lows in tht· low '50s and highs in the low 60s. -•.4P · 


Independence on the line 
If The Obseroer were to succumb to the demands of 
the University of Notre Dame, the student body would 
be left without an independent voice. 
As was indicated in a front-page story in yesterday's edition, the Officers of the University have issued an ultimatum to The Observer. Unless The Observer deposits all of its funds into University bank accounts, the University will cease collecting student subscrip­tion fees. 
The General Board ofThe Obseroer has decided not to submit to the demands ofthe University. The reason­ing used hy The Obseroer is very simple: a newspaper cannot he independent if it is not controlling its own money. 
In other words, this is more than a financial matter. I lnder the system the University has demanded, The Observer would need t:niversity approval for every financial move it makes. As I have well learned during my tenure as editor-in-chief, financial decisions made by a paper dictate its 

editorial policy. If the Uni­prepare monthly Income 
versity can refuse to sign The Obserr>er's checks, then it holds the greatest power over the editorial content of the paper. 
The University, however, 
does not understand this vi­
tal point. "Father Hesburgh 
insists that The Obser11er 
have complete editorial 
control of the content of the 
paper," says FatherJohn Van 
Wolvlear, vice president for 
student affairs. "Otherwise 
it's not an independent 
newspaper." 
Father Van Wolvlear says the University has no desire to interfere with the editorial policy ofthe newspaper. That is, as long as Tbe Obsen>er doesn't upset the Administration. 
I have explained to Van Wolvlear several times that tlnancial control means editorial control. No matter how sincert· Father Heshurgh and the rest ofthe Univer­sity arc in maintaining the editorial freedom ofThe Ob­serr•er, that editorial freedom is impossible unless the paper is also tlnancially indcpendent. 
The l :niversity claims that since The Obsen•er utilizes l'niversity-collected subscription fees, then The Ob­server should he held accountable for its funds. The Ob­sen•er agrees. Financial accountability should he a primary concern in any organization. However, the l lni­versity is not demanding only financial accountability. It is demanding control. 
The University, ofcourse, does not call it control. The Obsen•er disagrees. The ability to refuse to pay The Obserr•er's bills is control. Refusal to allow The Obserr•er to spcnd money 


IOSTINO'S 
~•...,.,,.• 
102 S. W1htut St. South lend 232-2494 
Talc• Eddy St., 1o S.,,e, tum Right ··on Walnvt 
Compos/lion Editor ............. Mar\' lkaly CfJmjJosition Assi.,·tant ....... Su!<.an ()'!lara TJ'/J<'Sellers... . ....... Michdk and Ted N£•u•s J:'tlitor...... .. ..........Jdlllarrington CopJ• /:"tlilor . .................. Amy ant.! Purnima \ports Coj~J' Editor... .. ..... Mike.: Sullivan Featun•s Copy Editor...... Mary and Sarah J:'ditorials l.aJ•out . ............. Kt:n Cc..·r.thona Featun•s l.t~J·out.. ............. ~arah and Mary ,'\'/J Dt~J' /:'ditm· ...... ................. Barb ~te\•c..·ns SMC Dal' /:'dilor . ..................._lody Radler Ad DesiRtl ................ Boh Slota l'bol(J?.rajJbt·r .... . . .. Paul Kramt.•r (;uest AfJ/Jt•aratzces ...... Vic Sciulli, a rum­!'lipping RomperRoom rejec.:t, thrt."t.' touri~ts and a pair of typist!<. Quo/<' ofthe Day Tbt•re are schmucks er,erywb£•re Ral(l' Sot~s ofNotre Dame  
TheObeerwr (USPS J99l-Gl0) is published Monday through Friday arid on home loo!ball Saturdays. eKcept during e•am arid vacation Pl!flodS The Oa.-wr iS pubbshed by the students ol Notre Dame arid Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrrting The ObMrver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The ObNrVer IS a member of ihe Aaaoclated Preu. All reproduction nghts are reser~~ed.  

London School of Economics and Political Science A chance to study and live in London 
Junior-year programs, Postgraduate Diplomas, One-Year Master's Degrees and Research Opportunities in the Social Sciences. 
The wide range of subjects includes: Accounting and Finance • Actuanal Science • Anthropology • Business Studies • Economics • 
Econometrics • Economic History • European Studies • Geography • Government • Industrial Relations • International History • International Relations • Law • Management Science • Operational Research • Personnel Management • Philosophy • Population Studies • Politics • Regional and Urban Planning Studies • Sea-Use Policy • Social Administration • Social Planning in Developing Countries • Social Work • Sociology • Social Psychol~ • Statistical and Mathematical Sciences • 
~::l::::n b:::~s::::  ~~  
Admiss1ons Registrar. LSE. Houghton Street,  ·  
London WC2 2AE. England, stating whether  '  
undergraduate or postgrad>Jate.  '-­ •  
0  


LSE----~ 
David Dziedzic 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Friday 


is control. As long as the University is signing the checks, it has control. 
And not only does the University want to control the $70,000 it collects from students annually. it also wants to control the S I 50,000 that is generated by advertis­ing. 
The Obsen•er has proposed a seven-part plan which, under normal circumstances. would satisfy a call for 
financial  accountability. The  major  tenets of the  
proposal are:  
•The  ObsenJer  will  

Statements and make these 
PR.ESS 7 reports availahk-to the llni­
versity. 

•The Obsert>er will form an Alumni Board of Direc­tors. The board will consist of professional journalists and businessmen and husinesswomen. This board will be the ultimate govern­ing hotly of The Obsen•er 
and will meet twice annually to review policy, review salaries and discuss capital expenditures. This board also will receive monthly Income Statements in order to monitor ongoing policy. 
•The Obsen•er will hire an external Certitietl l'uhlic Accountant to perform an an­nual audit of all financial activity. This audit will he made availabk-to thc t:nivcrsity for review and discus­sion with the Board of Directors. 
This proposal is currently sitting on Father lies­burgh's desk. It has heen sitting on his desk since Wednesday morning. So far, The OIJseruer has not dis· cussed this matter with him. We've dealt only with Father Van Wolvlear and five other t:niversity representatives. We're waiting to hear from Father Hes­burgh. 
We hope he is willing to discuss our proposal and help us establish third-party accountability. Even though Van Wolvlear has threatened to throw The Ob­sen>er out of its La Fortune offict·s, the paper will not back down. The Obsen•er will continue to fultill its obligation to produce a daily newspaper for the stu­dents of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's -with or with­out the support of the Notre Dame administration. 
Welcome Football Fans & Local Patrons 


Your Favorite Cocklails, Family Rooma and Private Entr...c:e. Banquet Rooms Available with ~n. f() Create Your Own Menu. 


The Observer Friday, October 21, 1983-page 3 

Off-cam1•us crime expected 'to decline 
By MARK GmSON 
and MARK WORSCHEH 
News Staff 
Off-campus students need to take extra precautions to pr·~vent burglaries during the upcoming fall break, say officials from Notre Dame and the South Bend Police D·~part­ment. They recommend moving valuables out of vacant houses and setting up a "Home Watch" wi:th the police. 
"Students are easy prey because each house maybe ha<> two or three stereos. Burglars can score three times as much. Plus, they don't own the house and don't put as much into security," says Corporal Dou~. Way of the Northeast Station. 
"Don't leave valuables in a vacant home," advises Way, who als-:> en­courages students to call the South Bend Police ( 284-920 1 ) and a:o.k for a "Home Watch" if no one w1ll be living there for the week. He ex­plains that the police will guarantee to check the house at least twice during each eight hour shift if the watch is requested. 
Brother John Campbell, dir·~ctor of off-campus housing, agrees with Way and adds that students should be sure not to leave valuabks in plain sight and to log the serial num­bers on all valuable items. 
"Burglars do not like to work for their money," says Campbell, "That's why they steal, and they will continue to steal as long as we make it easy for them. The Justice Depart­ment studies say that nearly half of all burglaries are committed with­out the use offorce to gain entry:'' 
"However," cautions Campbell, "sometimes all this is not enough. The answer may lie in an awareness program in which neighbors and students are encouraged to report suspicious activities to the police." 
Way says that the concept ofcom­munity oriented policing can in­crease this awareness by keepin;~ the police closer to the people. He says 

8J8(Po,·t.?'5eu4ve,..,~e 
vc-,et.?',.,.?',.., ~ ,_,.., e.?'t 
..... ~\s4es ... 

leb.?',..,ese-st;le 5/'·os 
:,el'57tf~' r.?'sh·\es at.?' st~Cfe~ S.?',_.,~,.-v·c4es 
,r J1 288-)639 


<=•ala Big Band 
MAS(~UERADE BALL 
Mond1ay Night October 31 
Prizes Tricks & Treats 
.:9~S~a0.,.1
•0g;F

·-· ~ aJitf'JI! . " ,i, t 
-~,_-· 
~·;1ot· 



'dii.Qil~the s~•rs"
,. '''r.• 

from Hi:gh Atop McCarthy's 410 N. Hill St. 
·, 
"' ... " .. ,. ...... '!' .... ' ..... ., " ... --........... ,. ......, 
. that the establishment of the North­. east Station, at 420 N. Francis, has "definately been a real success." The 
' station -open from 8 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday ­serves as a base for officers on per­manent assignment to the northeast sector of South Bend. Information and advice on home security also is available at the station, Way says. 
Way also reports crime seems to be on the decrease in the northeast sector, one of three areas ofthe city determined by the South Bend police (see chart). 
"We experienced an increase in residential burglary from the end of July which hit a peak at the end of August. It started to decrease by Sep­tember, and we expect a dramatic decrease in October," says Way. He attributes the decrease to the arrests of two individuals in August and the issuance ofwarrants on another. 
"There is nothing to be afraid about," says Way, referring to off­campus living. "A student should keep in mind that walking home from Corby's at two in the morning alone does make him a prime target for crime, however." 
Crime has been "no big deal" this year for senior Randy Hill, who lives in Campus View Apartments. He says he hasn't been involved in and doesn't know ofany major crimes at the apartment complex this year. 
Similar comments came from two other off-campus residents. Gary Gunderson, a junior, says neither he nor his 11 other roommates in their house on Notre Dame Avenue have been affected by crime. "I walk home late from the library and I al­ways watch for someone who might look suspicious," but after spending two years in New York City, he says that the situation here is "nowhere near" what he experienced riding on the subways through that city. 
David Koyzis, a graduate student living on N. Eddy St. says "I worry about it (crime), sure, but so far we've been unaffected." 

RESIDENTIAL BURGLARY 
1982 COMPARED TO 1983 
NUMBER COMMITTED Northeast Sector 
70 
60
1982 
........ 
50 
1983 
40 . 
Arrows rep­
resent statis­

--30
tical projection 
for Oct. 83 
20 
\0 

JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL SEP OCT NOV 
MONTH 




Peace Corps recruits sought at ND to serve as 'grass-roots' diplomats 
ByRAY FRONK 
News Staff 
Unsure ofwhat to do after gradua­tion? 
The peace corps offers you an op­portunity to put your education to work helping people help them­selves, according to Peace Corp5 recruiter Terry Anderson. 
"For anyone with a sense of ad­venture, who would like to ex­perience another culture and actually have a positive impact on the lives of people in under­developed nations, Peace Corps may be the answer," said Anderson, who is now visiting Notre Dame. 
Anderson, who served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Liberia, hopes to 
Cosimo Hair Design 
18461 St. Rd. 23 277-1875 Men: Regularly $~4.95, Special Price $tO• Women: Regularly $20, Special Price $15 • 
•with coupon for Notre Dame students only 
CO-Designers Only: Men $7 Women $10 

talk with students interested in using their ideals and education to help people solve their own problems. 
Notre Dame fits in well with Peace Corps objectives, said Ander­son, because of its sense ofcommit­ment towards social concerns, its awareness of the importance of so­cial development, and the strong push of the administration for human rights. 
Anderson claims the Peace Corps is "not for everyone -and is not meant to be," because it requires a sense of social awareness and com­mitment. 
At the end of their service, Peace Corps volunteers receive a readjust­ment allowance of $1 75 for each 
month served, totaling over 54,000, 
said Anderson. 
The Peace Corps' goals have not 
changed since its establishment 
during the Kennedy administration. 
Theses goals are: promoting world 
peace and friendship; helping 
developing countries meet their 
needs for :;killed men and women; 
and promoting mutual understand­
ing between the people of the 
United States and those of develop­
ing nations. 
Anderson calls Peace Corps 
volunteers "gra<>s roots ambas­
sadors" because they offer people 
around the world a chance to learn 
about Americans, possibly improv­
ing public relations between the 
United States and other nations. 
Anderson will return for inter­views with interested seniors on Nov. 8-10. These interviews may he scheduled through the Placement Office. 
Anderson will present a film and discussion seminar on the Peace Corps for all interested students on Nov. 7 at 7 p.m. in room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall. 


Dormitories to be locked next week 
Special to The Observer 
Access to residence halls will he 
restricted, and parietal hours will 
remain unchanged during October 
Break. 
Dean of Students James Roemer 
has issued a special bulletin 'telling 
rectors that doors should be locked 
at all times -students will he able 
to enter only by key or detex card. 
However, doors will not be chain 
locked during this break. 
If a student wishes to remain in 
the hall during October Break, he or 
she must contact his or her rector 
today. 
Both the North and South Dining 
Halls will close after the dinner meal 
Saturday, Oct. 22. They will resume 
the normal meal schedule with the 
dinner meal on Sunday, Oct. 30. 
.The publi~ cafeteria will be open for meals on a cash basis during . break: it;:ri~;.mal hours wm remain in effect. . . ~ The Huddleschedule is as foil 'lWS: 
-..,
Today -Regular hours ~ 
Tomorrow -8 a.m. to 8p.m. 
Oct. 23 -11 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Oct. 24 through Oct. 28 -7:30 
a.m. to 8:00p.m. 
Oct. 29 -Regular hours resume. 


The Observer Friday, October 21, 1983-page 4 

Barbados' Bishop dies in military-led coup 
Associated Press 
BRID<iETOWN. Barbados-Scat· 
tt·red guntire hroke out in Grenada 
yestt·rday after tht· army killed 
Prime Minister M<IUrice Bishop and 
as many as I 0 others in a far lcti 
coup. 
The army placed the island undc.:r 
curl(:w and warnt·d that violators 
would ht· shot on sight. 
In W;tshington. White House· 
spokc.:sman Larry Spc:akes said the 
turmoil on the Carihhean island ­
wht-rc: there.: arc some I,000 
Amnicans, many of them medical 
st udcnts -"ha~ raist:d our concerns 
to the highest lcvd" 
State Dcpar!mt·nt oftkials, who spoke on condition they not be idcn· tilinl, ~aid "there arc.: suspicions" but no evidcnn· that <:uba might havc: played a role in the upheaval. 
Tht· gunfire crat·klcd in the early morning. said ~ourct·s in (irenada's capital of St. George's, but no one vt·nturt·d outdoor~ because the army. lc.:d by (it·n. Hudson Austin, threatened to ~hoot anyone judged to be dbturhing the peace. 
"l.oo". man. ho'A do you expet'l nH· to tdl you anything with the cur· fnv on'" a~knl a rt·~ident contat'letl hy tdephont· from neighboring Bar· hado~. ''I'm n·nainly not going out." 
Tlw army s;rid in a broadcast that anyone venturing out hdi1r<' (J p.m. .'\llonday would ht· "~hot on ~ight." It also urgnl (irenada t 's 110,000 l'itizens to he "vigilant against im· JWrialistic attt·mpt~ at countt-r· n·volution." 
Austin'~ rolt· in Bishop's ouster anti slaying Wnlnc.:sday ~urprisnl many ( in·natla-watt·her~. who had 
I
~ 

.·.· 

expected Bishop's deputy, Bernard ~;: Coard, to emerge as the new leader. ;:;: lie has not heen heard from for ncar· { 





~~it:f~i(t~~~f;~}J!t; ;
hop to power in a coup that over· :;:; threw Sir Eric Gairy. } 
~~;;~~:~J~:~~5J:~~~:Co:inn2~~hJ I
1all of them Americans, a ong wtt :::: I00 faculty and staff at the St. :;:: 


~;~~~i~(~~:;~;~~~~ ·••••
Grenada, repo_rted that witnesses :;:: said Bishop and Foreign Minister :;:: 
Unison Whiteman had hcen

captured and executed Wednesday. ::.:::~:::·:_:_:::::·~::_.::. 
Whitt•man reportedly led a crowd of 
several thousand that freed Bishop 
that the army opcnt·d fire, killing Bis­hop and others, after Bishop began arming his supporters and two sol­diers were killed. 
But a witness said Bishop raised his hands over his hc:ad in surrc:nder shortly before the soltlkrs opened fire, a source said. 
Tht· sources, all of whom rc· quested anonymity, reported that Bishop and the others were woUJllkd, hut instead ofhcing takt·n to a hospital were execute t d at Fort 
:::~:,:~7~;~,;~;;:~~:~~~~~:•:::::::1:::_;::;:_::_:::1::::: 
:I~!
Rupert, the army headquarters. 


"UNDER FIRE" JEAN-LOUIS TRINTIGNANT ·RICHARD MASUR ED HARRISaso.tes Musirb,JERRY GOLDSMITH, r"'""ntli!U"'"'IrnMPAT METHENY lllm:IDrofPho!ojlraphyJOHN ALCO'IT BXC. EurutivrProdll<t!r EDWARD TEETS & ....pl.,b,RON SHELTON a00CLAYTON FROHMAN S<oryb,CLAYTONFROHMAN 
Produc.db,JONATHAN TAPLIN ni....tedb,ROGER SPOTIISWOODE 

NOW PLAYING AT ATHEATRE NEAR YOU. 

"TYSON ~~J9a~t~c~XPRESS" 
r FOR: NOTRE DAME STUDENTS, GUESTS 
:=~ AND ALUMNI 

JOIN US AFTER THE ... 

••• NOTRE DAME vs. U.S.C. GAME 

:::~ 

FOR THIS SPECIAL DINNER SATURDAY NIGHT OCTOBER 22, 1983 
.. 
4:30 PM -6:30 PM 

·.·.·.·.· 

.·.· 
.·.·
.·.· ::;: 
·:-: 
::: 
•'· 
.·.· 
:::: 
i
N 
!~!! 


The Observer Friday, October 21, 1983-page 5 

Poitier im:personator indicted f<)r burglary 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A teen-ager who gained access to the homes of prominent New Yorkers by telling them he was the son of actor Sidney Poitier was ordered held in $10,000 bond yesterday at his arraignm~nt on burglary and criminal impersona­tion charges. 
David Hampton, 19, of Buffalo, stood with his hands clasped in front of him as Manhattan Criminal Ccurt Judge Ira Beal said the bond amount meant the defendant could be released on S8,000 cash bail. The prosecution had asked for bail of 
$50,000. 
The youth, son of prominent Buf­falo lawyer and city official David E. Hampton, was accused of using a scam known as "the bite" to talk his way into the homes of Osborn El­liott, dean of the Columbia Univer­sity Graduate School of journalism, and others. 
Allegedly using stolen address books, Hampton would call a poten­tial victim. say he had been mugged and needed a place to stay for .a day or so until his "father," Sidney Poi tier, arrived in NewYork to begin filming "Dreamgirls," now a hit Broadway musical. 
At least one other New Yorker, john ). Iselin, president of educa­tional television station WNET, has told police he was victimized by a man fitting Hampton's description. 
Manhattan Assistant District At· torney Peter Haskell charged that in one case on June 24 Hampton stole luggage, a camera and 10 shirts worth some SI,500 from fashion photographer William King. 
Haskell, alleging that Hampton ac­cepted $50 cash, a shirt and food and lodging from Elliott the night ofOct. 2, read in court a passage from a law book in which the author held that "one who gains entry by trickery and deception" has not in fact en­tered by permission and is therefore subject to criminal charges. 


Wondering where to go for dinner Satturday Oct«()ber 22? 
Come to Ramada's 
"After (;lame Buffet" 

in our beautiful Vineyard room. 
There will be! a delicious buffet starting at 6::30 p.m. And Live Entertainment with the popular "Britches" Band. 
From 7 ·11 p.m. Adults $9.95 Children $4.95 (tax Included) Buy your tickets In 11dvance at the catering office 
:272·5220 
52890 U.S. 31 Ne~rth South Bend, IN 46637 CHECK COUPON SHEET INSERTED IN SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE 
Thundering shakes 
john Mosley, special teams captain, challenges pepped up Irish fans at a rally in front ofSorin College. Mosley will spearhead attacks against 




Trustees, students discuss concerns 
By PATRICK MULLEN 
News Staff 
Rectors, faculty members, and ad­ministrators could and should take an active role in reaching out to stu­dents. This, according to Student Body President Brian Callaghan, was one of the main points discussed in yesterday's meeting of the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees with members of the Stu­dent Government and other student representatives. 
In a semi-annual meeting in­tended to provide members of the Board of Trustees with student views and concerns, student representatives brought up the question of relations between faculty members, rectors and stu­dents. · 
"Faculty members and rectors have to take the initiative in trying to establish relations," said Callaghan, "because, while students are willing to take steps toward friendship, they are often afraid of being thought of as brown-nosers." Discussing the 
Applications for 
Chairman ofthe Mock Convention 
can be picked up in the Student Government Offices on the second floor of LaFortune They are due 4:30p.m. on Wednesday, November 2 
Sasson. Sunshine Promotions and Contemporary Productions welcome 



LOVEBBO~ 
WITH SPEOAL GUEST 



~"£fA~ 
Saturday, October 29 8:00p.m. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. All seats reserved $11.50 and $10.50 

and Concord Mall), Elkhart Truth, J.R.'s Music Shop (LaPorte), St Joseph Bank (Main/ Office), World Record oshen), Music Magic (Benton Harbor) and Karma (Ft. Wayne). 
Catholic character ofthe University, representatives examined the ef. fects of religious members of the staff and organizations such as the Center for Social Concerns and the Office of Campus Ministry on .stu­dents. It was agreed that they are "doing well but should reach out to students who are not inclined to religion or community service." 
Representatives also suggested that the administration intitiate more actions to alleviate student concerns. 
"While the administration is wil­ling to cooperate with students, stu­dents have to initiate most of the actions that deal with their problems and concerns them­selves," said Callaghan. "The Notre Dame family can't be run only by the children. The administration should make efforts to find out about stu­dents' concerns and initiate more programs of their own to deal with these concerns." 
The Board of Trustees is a group of prominent men and women whose function is to provide the 
invading Trojans tomorrow afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium. Mosley, bower•er, has a grudge to settle -neither be nor any of his senior teammates haveyet defeated the Trojans. 
University and the administration with outside guidance. The Student Affairs Committee of the Board lis­tens to students' opinions ofthe llni­versity and administration, according to Callaghan. 
Other issues discussed in the two­hour meeting were: financial aid, al­chohol and its place at Notre Dame. renovations, and on-camp us apart­ments. 
Board members stated that em­phasis must he placed on quick financial aid to those students who are in danger of dropping out of the University because offinancial need. 
If financial aid isn't increased, highly qualified but less wealthy stu­dents will he denied a fair chance to attend Notre Dame. said representatives, discussing the pos­sibility of Notre Dame becoming a school composed mostly of upper middle-class students. 
Representatives agreed the problem of alchohol can best he dealt with not hy the administration, hut by students exerting "positive peer pressure" on one another. The lack of alternative social activities was addressed as one of the main causes of high alchohol use. 
Renovations to classrooms, espe­cially those in the Cushing Hall of Engineering, the Hurley Business Administration Building, and the Ad­ministration Building were ;;!so dis­cussed. 
• • • Board 
continuedfrom page 1 
McDonnell said there are three reasons why he believes an advisory hoard is necessary. The first reason stems from the fact that The Ob­server is a large organization and has an obligation to provide assistance to its student staff, he said. 
· Second, the possibility of legal cases "makes it imperative," McDon­nell said. Newspapers at several uni· versities have been sued, he added. 
"The numerous complaints about reporters doing shoddy jobs, confused information and the lack of coverage of many campus groups" was the third reason McDonnell said necessitated the creation ofa board. 
"If The Observer ever broke off and became completely independ­ent, we would still recommend an advisory committee," he said. 
McDonnell suggested that the board consist of professors from the College of Business, the Law School, and the English, accounting and marketing departments. 
McDonnell and Van Wolvlear both said that the decision as to which faculty members would serve on such a board should be made by The Obser11er. 


The Observer 
Nancy Reagan consoles parents of drug users 

Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Nancy Reagan, swamped with lerters after hn appearance on a morning tdevi· sion show to draw attention to drug abuse, is calling some troubled writers to offer her sympathy and encouragt·ment. 
To one woman from Indiana whost· son disappeared five years ago, after using drugs and fighting with his parents, the first lady said Thursday 'Tm so sorry, and just know tht·re arc a lot of people going through the same things you're going through. It dot·sn't make it any easier, I know. It's still your l'hild ... You hang in there." 
Mrs. Reagan made public some of the letters she has received, with the understanding that the writers' names and hometowns would not he disclosed. 
One woman wrote that her 26· 
year-old son took his life last year 
"after a battle with alcoholism and 
drug abuse." 
"These substances so bewildered his mind, and although he went through treatment, he lacked con­fidence in himself to be free. Now, his nightmare is over, and ours goes on," she wrote. 
Mrs. Reagan, appearing to wipe a tear, read from the letter, to a group of reporter and photographers: "it's hard to describe our grief and loss. To others he may have seemed like a worthless person who didn't deserve to live. But we loved our sweet cuddly baby, charming tod· dler, fun loving child, who as a teen, stumbled blindly into another world." 
The letters were written after Mrs. Reagan appeared as a co-host of ABC's Goo Morning America on Oct. 
12. A desk in the East Wing Recep· tion Room was nearly covered with several stacks of letters, with some of the piles reaching nearly a foot. 


Brazilian decree hopes to secure needed loans 
Associated Press 
BRASII.IA. Brazil -The military­backl·d govt·rnmcnt bsucd a decree yesterday to replace key austerity nll'asures rejected hy Congress, and police with t·mergt·ncy powers en· ti>rlTd a han on public gatherings in tht· Gtpital. 
Prl·sidl'lll Joao Figudrcdo dt-crl·t·d l'llll'rgency mcasurt·s Wed· nl·sday night whkh he said were nlTlkd to prevent "outsidl· agitators" from disturbing Congress during its ddiherations on .~·month· old dlTrt-cs that cut salaries and stall' spl·nding. 
Thl· opposition. aided hy 29 goVl'fllllll'nt party ddc:ctors, vt·toed tht· austerity laws. cvt·n though tht·y were tied to tht· rdca.'c ofhillions of dollars in loans from tht· intnnation· al hanking community. 
Tht· loans arc badly needed to hdp Brazil handle a staggning 5')0 billion li>rdgn dl·ht. But tht· opposi· tion maintains that the way for Brazil 
to impress foreign bankers is to trim 
the civil service bureaucracy, not 
squeeze already hard-pressed 
working people. 
The government responded yes­
terday with a new, somewhat milder 
austerity decree. tinder the Brazilian 
Constitution, the president is em­
powered to decree laws and put 
them into effect immediately, but 
Congress later can veto them. 
Most ofthe bail-out loans to Brazil 
arc linked to an International 
Monetary Fund agreement that calls 
for drastic reduction ofinflation and 
cuts in state spending. 
International banking sources in London said yesterJay the congres­sional vetos will make it more dif­ficult for Brazil to assemble a 1112 billion debt rescue package from banks in the next few weeks. The final outcome on the packagt· will depend on how the IMF responds to the new dcvdopmcnts, said the sources, who insisted on anonymity. Thert· was no immediate IMF reac­tion. 

PRINTING SERVICE 
New· Replacing campus Press 
Bring camera-ready poster art to S.U. RecordStore for your posters and table tents 
Notre Dame 
' . 


::: Introductory Lesson 1/2 Price ;::: <1715 W. Progress Drive<Michiana Regional Airport {219) 234-6011 :;: South Bend. IN <16628 
·· Experience the Joy of Flying 
:.:. Solo in 30 days .. .. for under $499 
:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-::::::::::::::::::.:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::.: ·.· .. 
Open70ays a Week 
==~
·.·.
·.·.
:::: 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::N=~: 

Friday, October 21, 1983-page 6 
Blowing bubbles 
Members ofGround Zero, a nationwide group which seeks to increase nuclear awareness, sell bottles ofsoap bubbles at the South Dining Hall. 

Those involved in the sale are, standing, left to right, Peggy Collins, Greg Zellmer, Kevin Spahn, and Dan Lesmez, and sitting, left to right, Btl/jor­dan andjohn West. 




ne FMDeb MJg~h~~ 
.introduees·-­«The Market Basket Special,, 
c.Li~le.!t. ~alad. 
mSriqated.-vm8blea7'ircl.t 

~e_n~h ~A ~~ l 
pen e-.r ~~~x~ $14.95 t\~~~~· kealfasl~knelt senced_ dai!r ph 234-2600 
The Observer Friday, October 21, 1983--page 7 

.----------------··----------------------, 


WOIMEN!! 

Now that we have your attention, we would 
like to announce a support group for women at Notre Dame/St. Mary's. It is being sponsored by the Womens' Caucus and run by the Couseling &Psychological Services Center. 
1 
1 Beginning Date: Wed., Nov. 2,1983 
I Time: 3:30 · 5:30 p.m. 
1 Place: Counseling & Ps·vchological Services Center 
I  (3rd floor of Student Health Center)  
1I  Come by or call C & PSC at 239-7336 to sign up for the group  
I  

1----·-···--·······-----···---····--·• .I 

montgomery® 
will conduct interviews on this campus THURSDAY, NOV. 10 & FRIDAY, NOV. 11 Career positions 1n vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed with degree candidates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your campus, contact your placement office. 

montgomery· 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Montgomery Elevator Company, Moline, Illinois 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co., Limited. Toronto. Ontario M9B3S5 Off1ces 1n principal citieS of North America 
SUNI~YSIDE 



BEVE:RAGES 

ACROSS STREET FROM CAMPUS 
1340 S. Bend Ave. 
234·1114 
···-·······DRAFT SEER··-··-----·· 
BIIAND COST 
--·------------------------------­

fREE POSTERS SCHUll 
SCHL ITI LT OLD KILNAUt;EE CLD mVAUY.£E L T 
111 9ARREL PABST PIBST ILT ANDEY.ER B.ATZ OLD STYtE OcD STYLE L T SP. EIPORT D!flffiYS 9RA!m£ ISTER AUGS9UR6ER 
~UBER 
29. SQ 30.50 RSO 27.00 31.00 32.00 35.00 27.00 25.00 31.00 25.00 31.50 32.50 29.00 30.00 

OPEN TILL  SCHLITZ KALI LIQUOR ~ CIILI Tl O~k  34.00 Jl. so  
5:00 Weekdays  "0LS()tj fAIIP  TAX ALREADY  Sl.M 70.00  
h2:00 Saturdays KEG BAG  INCLUDED  2.00  
HAND PU"P  l. 00  
CUFS II 1001  4.00  
CLFS  IICSE 10001  :.2. 50  
ICE 118 LB 961 i:s(l'~"' 2. 50 


DEPOSll TOTAL 
6. 00 3~. 50 6.00 36.50 6.00 40.50 6.00 33.00 6.00 37.00 6. 00 lB. 00 6. 0(1 41.00 6.00 33.00 6.00 31.00 6.00 J7. 00 6. 00 31.00 6.00 37.50 
6. Q(l JUO 6. 00 l5. 00 b. 0(1 36.00 6. 00 40. no 6. 0(1 37.50 6.00 59,00 6.00 76.00 
2.00 10.00 JJ. 00 4, 01) 
3i. ~0 

GO IRISH!! TtB 3.(1(1 15.1)(1 18.110 CC IL POl 50.00 70.00 120.t~
BEAT USC!! 
ElECTRIC POl II 60,(1(1 60.00 ~( PSE !ANI 1~.1)0 35.00 so. no 

Watt boasts of added federal lands in first stateiDent since resignation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Outgoing Inte­rior Secretary James Watt boasted yesterday that he's added more land to the federal estate than any inte­rior secretary since William Henry Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia in 1867 . 
"More than Teddy Roosevelt, more than Franklin Roosevelt, more than Lyndon Johnson, more than Jimmy Carter," 'Watt added. 
He didn't mention that with the addition comes a subtraction -vir­tually as much. 
Watt's remarks, in his first capital appearance since announcing his resignation, came as he accepted a donation from the state of Alaska of almost 1 million acres of land to be refuge. 
The gift brings to 1.04 million 
acres the amount ofland the Interior 
Department has acquired, primarily 
through gifts and land trades, in 


like the docs 

Addreee -------­Cit)!------State ­
Zip Send check or mof>C)I order to 
SCRUBS 

P.O. Box 595, Bethel Park, PA 15102 
Shirt,  S,  M,  L, $ 9.95  
Pants,  S,  M,  L, $11.95  
Set,  S,  M,  L, $19.95  

Circle eize and write In the number of SCRUBS (Plus $1.50 for Postage and Handling) 
Beat USC Special REFRIGERATORS 
$35 per School Year 
FREE DELIVERY 




cALL Taylor Rental 
277.2190 

1427 N.lronwood GO IRISH!! 
•...'"'••.. ·..........·.. ·• ·.. •••...··*ti.. if".;.'•'"~~~ ,_ , .•..Z(!~:'"-•.....-•...._•~.....A .... •-•.:.,•,..-:., ...,..._.._.:--.•.•.•.,·.· .. •,.·..,•..,.•.• ..... • ..."'..•..."• .. • .. •.•.·~·.. • ...•...•... -...-..."l..• ._.,__.__.-.'" '~' .,.~ 

.. _ ................... _______ ...... --~--------~ ~--~---------------...................... _......... --.. --".
------~ 
1983. 

Interior Department officials said the swap was a good deal because the federal government will give up land closer to the population cen· ters of Anchorage and Fairbanks in return for land covering a key migratory route for the I 00.000­animal Porcupine Caribou herd. 
Charles Clusen, an official of the Wilderness Society. another en­vironmental group, said Congress in passing the Alaska Lands Act directed ~he Interior Department to try to negotiate a land swap to com­plete the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
"He is.saying he should be a great 
hero  for  pursuing what  Congress  
told  him  to  do for once," Clusen  
said.  

Watt announced his resignation Oct. 9, in the wake of a furor over a wisecrack about "a black ...a woman, twoJews and a cripple" on a coal leasing advisory panel. 
He appeared somewhat subdued 
during the brief 10-minute 
ceremony yesterday. He read his 
statement, signed the transfer docu­
ment and left before reporters could 
ask questions. 
The additions will bring the total 
size of the Arctic refuge to 19.3 mil­
lion acres. The land acquired was 
completely surrounded by the 
refuge and was along the Canadian 
border. 
The state of Alaska had acquired 
the property in 197 2, planning to 
use it to accommodate a possible 
natural gas pipeline. However, that 
pipeline proposal is no longer under 
active consideration. the Interior 
Dt·partment said. 


Senate blocks censorship legislation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate 
voted yesterday to block for six 
months implementation ofa Reagan 
administration plan to censor the 
writings and speeches of federal 
employees who have access to high­
ly classified material. 
The action on a 56-34 roll call 
came in the form of an amendment 
to a S6.4 billion appropriations 
measure that will finance operation 
of the State Department and related 
agencies through next Sept. 30. 
The move was spearheaded by 
Sens. Charles McC. Mathias. R-Md.. 
and Thomas F. Eagleton, D-Mo., who 
complained that the White House 
plan would unconstitutionally 
invade the free-speech rights of 
more than 100,000 people. 
Under the plan, federal officials 
and employees with access to highly 
classified Sensitive Compartmented 
Information would have to sign a 
form agrt>eing to submit their 
manuscripts for pre-publication 
review. 
The proposal, which would cover 
even works of fiction written after 
an official left government service, is 
part of a broader White House 
directive aimed at preventing leaks 
of classified material to the news 
media
............ 
. . * 
*
*
* 
* *
* * 
: Go Irish!!! : : Beat So. Cal. : 
* *
* *
* *
* *
* * 


"~···············~ 

1 e~" ·i.,e•
t\~ 0' 
e~· '6
~\\J t\)(\~· ~~ 
~ Open 
Spm, Tues.-Sat. 
7pm, Sunday 
Fresh Blue Point oyste1 ~'"'a large gulf shrimp sc;,, •el1 nightly 


.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October 21, 1983 -page 8





View~oint 
'Life' and 'Freedom' in Chile 
Editor's note: This is the ~l'l"ond in a two-part sl·rks uuln-rning the lloly <:ros!'t Associates program in ( :hile. Till' lkadlint· for the foreign program b Novt·mht-r I. 
The Associates 
Chile 

You shall hefree ir1deed when your days are notzl'ithout a care noryour nights without a u•ant and a xrief Hut rather when these thinxs xirdleyour life andyetyou rise above them naked and unbound. 
Kahil Gihran 

In another week we will go to Santiago for the ordination of Pqx: Ahumada. There's a party in the Associates !louse on the 17th for tht· feast of St. Pat's. It's usually a big hit hc­c:aw..e we're so normal and undcrical, we help the priests he pt·oplc. They like to feel like people for a c:hange so they usually show up at our parties-ifeVl'n just for the evening meal. Jean Jcnk cooks up a mean meal that anyhody\.1 he a fool to miss, thus there's more inc:cntivc where none b needed. 
Things seem to he going well in SanJiago. The pressure there is intense in terms of infla­tion, rise of repression, rise of frustration and mental and physilal illness, rise of poverty, rise of spiritual and corporal death. For those of us who work to turn the tides on gross in­justilc, the suffering and pain in Santiago is hard to live witness too, for we must watch a nation be destroyed by its fellow patriots. 
To watch a people being destroyed from the insidt· out, to watch their laughter be turned to tears, and from tears to fear, and from fear to numbed silence is a sad thing. It is to find yourselfsurrounded by the living dead, 
for this government has outlawed life. 
Life is the frct·dom to express one's self, to oppose, or even to affirm. One must conform. Life is the freedom to work. to use your hands, to leave the house each day and employ your energies. to bring back a decent day's ear­nings, to put bread on the table, to receive the embrace oflovc from your husband or wife, to lie in bed at night proud of your gift of life, yourself, your home, your destiny, and to look to the morrow with hope. 
Life is to walk into the street without fear, and to accept the struggles without remorse. Life is to be free. Life is negation of the im­potent, the powerless, the poverty and, to us, the echoing sounds of No, No, No. There is much renewal and support needed in San­tiago. 
joe and Liz are hopefully teaching now. A new decree was put out by the Ministry of Education which denied teaching positions to all foreigners recently arrived in Chile. Those who taught last year could remain in the same positions, hut new teachers wert· forbidden a position. 

As our schools arc semi-private, we're hoping that Liz aqd Joe will gd a waiver. Jean has found work in a health clinic in San Roque and has already begun. Her services arc sorely needed, although there is little to be done in funding them. 
For myself, as {enter my second year, I feel 
more strongly than ever the presence ofGod 
in this experience. He has been a dear and 
trustworthy friend of mine through many 
trying moments. He has called me out of 
shame and out of the shadow of death and 
brought me into the hope and the light ofLife, 
and not just once, but many, many times. And I 
am not afraid anymore. 
Study! and be not afraid. With much love 
and many blessings, 
Stacy Hennessy 


(;real Britain could never adopt a policy of isolationism, t•vt·n if it wanted to. The country is heavily dqx·ndt·nt on tht· cooperation of others to maintain the high standard of living 

Edward Sheeran 
Absent with leave 

it's peopk currently enjoy. It depends on the l :nitl'll Stall'S and the rest of tht· NATO nKm­hcrs l(>r ddi:nsc nt·l'lb, and it is growing cvt·r more dependent upon tht· states that com­prist· the Europcm Economic Community to hdp rt·vitalize it's lloumkring t-conomy. 
The British exemplify the interdependenn· ofour world mort· than the li.S. sirKt' they art· vulnnahk to ~uddt·nchangn in world policy. lmked. thl· conn·pt of "oursdves alone," is nothing hut a quickly dismis~l'll pipe dream in this country. 
This ~l'tllimenl is not unanimou~ in the Britbh lslt·s. ( >nt· group ofindividuals helicn·~ it can acnunplish it'~ goals alone. no mattt·r what the circumstances. It has pledged never to abandon its cau~c. rt·ganllt-ss of the hardships its people face. These people downgrade the importance of foreign in­tlucncc, daiming that outsiders must not be allowed to taint the revolution which they arc working so hard to bring about. These arc the guiding principles ofan organization that tru­ly wants all the responsibility along with all the glory. 
The philosophy of "ourselves alone" is the driving force behind the Irish Republican Army, whose political wing -Sinn Fein ­means "ourselves alone" in Gaelic. 
The IRA is often seen as a militant force of Irish nationalism, fighting to free an oppressed minority fron, a tyrannical majority of im­perialists. Most people in London, however, do not quite sec it that way. 
To the English, the IRA is nothing more than a dangerous mob of terrorists who must not have their way. The IRA has struck fear into the hearts ofLondoners; one cannot miss signs plastered all over the subways, instruning pn>plc what to do should they sec an unat­temkd package. London is not exempt from the IRA's wrath; on the contrary, it has been a main target of bombings through the years. 
Although the pace of their activity has slackened off here in recent months, the showdowns between convicted IRA criminals 
and the Thatcher government have been well 
publicized. The celebrated hunger strike in 
Be !fasts Maze pris· on, led by the late Bobby 
Sands, over the granting of political prisoner 
status to IRA detainees has not been forgotten. 
Because the prisoners demands were not 
met, the strike was largely assumed to have 
been a failure, though it may have brought 
sympathy from other circles. It was one ofthe 
few times the IRA chose to employ non­
violence to make their feelings known. "The 
British arc not trusted, therefore negotiation 
will not he successful" -these words recent­
ly spoken by an IRA leader symbolize the 
resignation ofthese people. 
"Ourselves alone" may sound good on paper, hut it has not worked very well in practice. It follows, then, that IRA leaders have dropped their opposition to the reception of foreign aid, however secretly it may arrive. The problem ofarms and money flowing into their hands from private sources has become so embarrassing that Senators Edward Ken­nedy and Daniel Moynihan have made public appeals to Americans not to continue such support. 
Another controversy involves allegations 

that the Soviet Union has attempted to negotiate some kind ofdeal over arms (which IRA leaders arc said to have accepted.) Even Colonel Khadafy of Libya has bragged aix>ut his assistance. This sheds light on another problem that few Americans have anticipated. Should the IRA succeed in forcing govern­ment troops out of Ulster, and take control of that province for their own, what would that signal for the process of reunification? What happens if the Dublin government rejects the terms offered to it by the IRA, and forces the latter to set up its own state in its newly con­quered land. Could London -and the West as a whole -tolerate a Marxist state heavily in­fluenced by Soviets and Libyans coming to collect their lOU's? 
This scenario is hypothetical, ofcourse, but it should give us pause before instinctively supporting these "freedom-fighters" with whom many of us share a common ancestry and heritage. The British treatment ofthe Irish over the ages can only he described at tragic, but it does not justify a continued cycle of violence and a mounting list ofcasualties. 
Editor's note: Edward Sheeran current~v is participating in Notre Dame's junior year program in London. 
Department Managers 
=====-='!~he. Qbset:Ver=====~~!!-~:~~e~-~~~~ ..........David Dziedzic 
/lox {!. Notr.. f)a me. I'\' ·If> 556 (.!I <J) .!j<J · 5JOJ Managing Ediror ............. Margaret Fosmoe 
/he ( Jh.wn•t•r "tlu· mdq)l'mknt m·w,papt·r puhlr~hl'd hv tht· ~tudl·nt~ of the Uni· Execurive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ................. _.... Alex Szilvas \Trsrtv ol Notre ();une du l.ac and Saint \1an.-, Collt·gc It doe' not ncct·s,arilv rdlcct News Edt/or . ................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen thl' polil'll'' ot tht· admmi,tration ot l'llhl-r m'tr!lltion The new' i' rcportt•d a~ al· News Ediror . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzauuc i.a Croix curatl·h· and a~ ohllTtrH·h .1~ po"ihk l n~ignnlnhtoriab rt·pn·~t·nt thl· opinon ofa Saint Mary's Ediror . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto m;IJOrity ot thl' hhtorrall\oard ( :onunt·ntane,, ktH'r'. and the ln~idc (:olumn prcst·nt Features Ediror. . . . . . . . ....... Sarah Hamihm1 System Manager ............... Kevin Williams till' \'ll'~-, ol therr author' ( olumn 'pact''' availahk to all members ofthl' communitv. Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . .......... Scott Bower 
.\jJOrts Fditor ...... \1ichacl Sullivan . Founded November J, 1966 
•md lht·lnT expn·""m ol\ arvmgopuuon~ on campus. through lcttt·r,_ i~ l'ncouraged 



REVENGE 

The Irish try to get even with Trojans 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Although Saturday's Notre Dame-USC battle won't have any bearing for either team's hope for the national championship as it so often has, emotions on both sides are still expected to be at peak leveL 
For the .Irish. the revenge motive couldn't be any 
stronger. Notre Dame sports a ;~-12-2 record against the 
Trojan machine since 1966, and has lost the last five 
meetings in a row. Two ofthe most heartbreaking losses 
in Head Coach Gerry Faust's regime at Notre Dame 
have been to the Trojans. 
USC won with less than five minutes left in the I981 
contest as fullback Todd Spencer ran 26 yards for the 
touchdown that broke the 7-7 tie. Last year, tailback 
Michael Harper's "Phantom Touchdown" with 48 
seconds left handed the Irish another disappointing 
loss. Since the beginning ofthe week, a five-by-three 
foot-long picture ofthat "toucbdown" has been han­
ging in the Notre Dame locker room. 
The Trojans, however, also have a special incentive 
coming into Saturday's game. A1; usual, the Trojans were 
expected to be contenders for national honors in the 
pre-season. But hard times have hit the team this year as 
it has stumbled to a 2-3-1 record. Besides losing to un­
heralded Kansas ( 26-20) and South Carolina ( 38-14), 
the Trojans were also embarra~;sed by No. 13 Arizona 
State ( 34-14) last week in the Los Angeles Coliseum. 
There is a wariness, though, among the Notre Dame 
players and coaches that the USC talent is ready to ex­
plode against the opposition wther than self-destruct 
once again. 
"It'll be a great football game, there's no doubt in my 
mind," says Faust. "Our players have been kind ofsnake­
bitten and frustrated against U~C the last few years, so 
I'm sure that they'll be emotionally ready. 
"On the other hand, USC will come in here a little bit 
mad and a little bit frustrated after the last few weeks­
and that can mak t e them a very dangerous team." 
just two years ago, it was Fam;t who faced the Trojans with a 2-3 mark. Thus, he can s~rmpathize with the frustrations ofthe USC team anc its new head coach Ted Tollner. 
"I know exactly how Ted Tol.ner feels these days, be-
Michigan State-a team it bad no business losing to. 
In the third game ofthe I977 season, a quarterback who started the season at tbird-string,]oe Montana, Tro,jan quarterback came in to add a new spark to the team. In the third 


Se!an Salisbury 
cause he's going through the same things I did when I started here. People just assume at a Notre Dame or USC that there's no adjustment period when a new coach comes in, but it's not automatic. I can sympathize with him, and I hope USC fans will be patient like people have been here with me. USC has too good a program not to come back strong." 
Despite the losing record, one cannot deny that USC is once again stocked with tremendous talent. A reflec­tion ofthis talent is evident in the offensive backfield where the aforementioned Spencer and Harper are backups at the tailback spots. 
Apair ofsophomores, Fred Crutcher at tailback and Kennedy Pola at fullback, start at the backfield posi­tions. 
As usual the tailbacks play the major role in the USC rushing attack. Crutcher has gained 429 yards on 101 carries, Harper has picked up 250 yards while averaging 
see REVENGE, page 10 


Once upon a time • • • 
A tale of a coincidence that could happen 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
It is said that history has a tendency to repeat itself. If that is true, then look for an awesome Notre Dame victory on Saturday after­noon against the USC Trojans. 
History and great tales play an important role in Notre Dame foot­ball. You may not know it, but Saturday's game also holds a special history and talc. 
This is a tale oftwo Notre Dame classes and their battles with the Trojans. One class graduated in I978. The other is this year's current senior class. 
Asfreshmen ini974, the 1978classwent to USC with nine wins and a chance to playfor the national cham­pionship on New Year's Day ifits team could beat the Trojans. But the Notre Dame team was embarrassed on national television by a 55-24 count. 
Asfreshmen in I980, this year's senior class went to USC with nine winsanda chance to playfor the nation­al championship on New Year's Day ifits team could beat the Trojans. But the Notre Dame team was embar­rassed on national television~ a 20-3 count. 
As sophomores in I975, the I978 class was greeted with a new bead coach named Dan Devine. Devine's competence as Notre Dame's coach was greatly ques­tioned allyear as the team failed to go to a bowlgame. Notre Dame lost at home thatyear to the Trojans by seven points, 24-I7. 
As sophomores in I98I, this year's senior class was greeted with a new head coach named Gerry Faust. Faust's competence as Notre Dame's coach was ques­tioned allyearas the team failed to go to a bowl game. Notre Dame lost at borne thatyear to the Trojans by seven points, I4-7. 
Asjuniors in I976, the I978 class went back to the Los Angeles Coliseum. Despite beating the Trojans in just about every statistical category thatyear, Notre Dame lost, I7-13. 
Asjuniors in 1982, this year's senior class went back to the Los Angeles Coliseum. Despite beating the Trojans injust about every statistical category thatyear, Notre Dame lost, 17-13. 
Now comes the good part ofthisjourney through the Twilight Zone. 
In I977, the class ofI978 faced USC at borne on Oc­tober 22. This year's senior class likewise faces USC at home on October 22. The 1977 team faced a lot ofearly season adversity. In the secondgame ofthe season that yearit lost to .Mtssissippi-a team they had no business losing to. This year's team, likewise, faced a lot ofear(y
II season adversity. In the secondgame oftheyear it lost to 
Tailback Greg Bell returns from injury 

game ofthe 1983 season, a quarterback who started the season atthird-string, Steve Beuerlein, came in to adda new spark to the team. In 1977, the head coach and his staffbrave(y weathered "Dump Devine," slogans. In 1983, the head coach and his staffhave been hrave(v weathering "Oust Faust" slogans. 
In 1977, the Notre Dame team, especial(l' its seniors, gained revengeagainst the prel'ious three losses with an electrifying 49-I9triumph in which the team came out in greenjerseysfor the first time in 14 years. 
Can the 1983 team, especial(y its senior class, repeat such an electrifying performance this Saturdar after­noon to gain some rez,engefrom the prez,ious three years offrustration? 
Such trivia, albeit interesting, is really trivial. Notre Dame will not win Saturday's game on the basis offulfilling history. It can only win with a lot ofhard work and dedication. When the Irish crushed the Trojans in 1977, a lot ofpeople felt that it was the green jersey touch that led Notre Dame to victory. But Devine understood that it was not just green jerseys that led to the tremendous performance. 
"There was an awful lot ofheart under those jerseys," reflected Devine afterwards, "and the kids have performed all year to the best oftheir abilities." 
It is exactly that kind ofheart and dedication this Notre Dame team will need tomorrow. No, this team doesn't have the chance for the national championship the way the 1977 team did. But it does have the chance to regain nationwide respect the way the 1977 team did. 
For the last three weeks, this year's team has been gradually regaining respect. A lot ofwounds have been healed since that Satur­day night debacle at Miami four weeks ago. That ever ubiquitous skepticism about the team and coaches is still lurking in the back­ground, though. A victory on Saturday, like the 1977 victory, can help alleviate quite a bit ofthat skepticism. More important, it would help keep the momentum rolling for the team as it heads into the home stretch this year. 
After the 1977 game, Sports Illustrated reported Notre Dame's great triumph over the Trojans as a time ofgreat transformation in Notre Dame football fortunes. 
The victory came at a particularly oppurtune mo­mentfor both coach and team ... A bumpersticker which soldfor S 1 outside Notre Dame Stadium before the USC game said, "Dump Devine." Somebody painted overDevine's name on hisparkingplace outside his office and made it read "5 minute parking" But with this win and a 5-1 record, three ofthefour major bowls (the Rose is excluded because ofits Big 10-Pac 8 com­mitment) are lusting after Notre Dame. "Cheer, Cheer For Old Notre Dame" is back on the charts. Up there Rockne is smiling 
Hopefully, the Notre Dame football team can make such history repeat itselfon October 22, 1983 as it did on October 22, 1977. 

~usc 

Friday, October 21, 1983 -page 1 0 
Trying to live up to a tradition 
Ted Tollner starts to find out what Gerry Faust is going through 
ByJOHANNES TESSELAAR 
Sports Editor 
Dally Trojan 
At the press conference to announce that he would be the next USC head football coach, he stepped to the microphone and quipped, "OK, I'll beat you to it, Ted Who?" 
That Novcmhn day Ted Tollncr was about as well known outside the university as, say, a hiology profes­sor, whkh is more what Tollncr looked like. 
It's hecn almost ten months since that moment and the pcopk surrounding him, the media, and Tollner himsdfhave spread the word ahout the 17th coach in the st·hool's history. 
Tollncr spent a good deal ofsummcr, when he wasn't doing foothall-related husincss, talking to support group:. and the media. 
Ik's talkl·d to alumni groups, Rotary Cluhs, Lions Clubs, just ah,vut anybody who wanted to hear from him. And when you're the head coat·h at USC the list of speaking t·ngagt·ments doesn't end. 
"I've tried to make myself availahk to anyone who's had an intnest in having me," th<.· 43-year old Tollner wassaing recently at the team's media day. "I've had re­quests to speak here or there and I've said 'No, I'm sorry, Ican't do it at this time ofthe yt·ar.' Now I'm going to do what I have to do, coach the team. Sometimes people art· offended, hut most understand." 
During tht· oflscason, with his team scattered all over the t·ountry, Tollner tried to turn no one down. "That's why wt· were as husy as we were," he added. "But it was good hccausc Igot a chance to he introduced to a lot of pt·oplc." 
And what do those people think now that they've met Toll ncr? 
"Most people arc, as I would be, taking a 'let's wait and sec if he can maintain the program' attitude," Tol­lner said. "They know that I'm the head football coach hut they're thinking, 'Well, he's still an unproven guy.' 
"When you're not an established head coach, whether you've hcen successful as an assistant or not, it doesn't matter to a lot ofpeople. You have to prove you t·an do it in a difft.'rcnt capacity." 
So far. the jury is still out on Tollner and the 198.3 Trojans. After a season-opening tic with Florida ( 19­19 ), l iSC defeated Oregon State, .H-1 0. Hut then came hack-to-hat·k losses to Kansas ( 26-20) and South <:arolina ( 3H-14 ). That gaw USC a 1-.2-1 record, its worst start since 1961. 
And the whipping administered by South Carolina was USC's worst defeat since Notre Dame heat the Trojans, 49-14, in 1977. 
"Well, right now we're just not a good football team," Tollncr said after the Kansas loss. "There is a giant gap ht·twccn our ability level and where we arc right now." 
At his weekly media conference after theJayhawk game Tollnt·r entered and found University President .James Zumht·rgc on hand. 
Zumht·rgc, who was there to announce some plans rt·garding llomccoming, said jokingly, "I think I'll stick around and find out what the hell is going on." 
Tollnt·r laughed. He wasn't laughing after South Carolina. "Right now we art· playing at a lcvd that is disappoint­ing. But l'vt· hn·n in the business long enough to not sell our tt·am short so early in the year. I still think our talent is good enough to where we can beat anyone our schnlule.'' 
Tollncr has said he has taken complete responsibility for tht· Trojans not playing up to tht.'ir capabilities. 
lk has also taken the heat from those connected with liS(:. Wht·n asked how his mail was after South Carolina, ht· n·plkd with a smile, "Well, it hasn't exactly been too positive." 
But through the tough timt·s ( whkh seemed to all hut disappear after USC's :\8-17 blowout ofWashington Statt' ), Tollnt·r has remained positive. 
"Our guys arc hanging togetht·r very well under ad­verse conditions. Thcrt· are people affilitatcd with USC timtball who aren't happy, but Ican't control what they think. If you task your players to bt· strong when people are critical; then you bt·tter well he strong too." .r 
So while tht· alumni groups may still hold reserva­tions about him, Toll ncr has become a media favorite bt·causc ofhis open style. 
"It's very important to me," Tollner said ofhis relationship with the press. "I would like to treat media pt·ople like I understand they have a joh.to do. I've a great deal ofrespe<:t for them. I'd like to think they have the samt· for me. I want to be accessible to them. We nt•t•d each other. 
"That's why to me the business offootball -and it is a business even at the collegiate level -is so exciting, because of the exposure. 
By his own admission Tollnn won't dazzle the press with ht·adlinc-making statements or oneliners. "Everyone has to deal in their own personality. Mine w(;uld not be to entertain you with jokes orsome super statements. Instead I'm going to tell you all you want to know about our program as opt·nly and honestly as I 
<.:an." 

Ted Tollner 
While Tollner may not express the wit like the two previous coaches,John McKay and john Robinson, he does possess the football knowledge. 
"He's a genius," said quarterback Sean Salisbury. "On the field he is a perfectionist. Offense to him is like brushing teeth to you and I." 
Robinson certainly was aware ofTollner. Whenjohn Jackson left Robinson's staff, the current head man of the Rams grabbed Toliner from Brigham Young Univer· sity. 
Toliner served eight years at San Diego State as of­fensive coordinator and quarterback coach, the same positions he held at BYU for the 1981 season. During that time he coached three NCAA passing champions. 
He had a reputation for opening up offenses and that's what Robinson wanted him to do for the Trojans. In II games last year USC gained 2,145 yards through the air, compared to 1,321 yards in 12 games in 1981. 
And so far in 198.3 (after five games) USC has amassed 1,100 yards passing. While USC hasn't run as efficiently as in the past, it has become more diversified on offense. 
......... 
continued from page 9 
over six yards a carry, and Spencer has gained I57 yards on 41 carries. 
But the famous "student body right" sweeps of the USC tailbacks have pretty much played second fiddle in the attack ever since ToUner took over as the offensive coordinator last year. Tollner, who coached pro quar­terbacks Gifford Nielson, Marc Wilson, and jim McMal10n at Brigham Young, has helped create a so­phisticated air attack at lJSC with junior quarterback Sean Salisbury. 
The air attack with backup Scott Tinsley rallied the Trojans from a 1.3-3 ddecit in the fourth quarter last year against the Irish. 
Salisbury has completed 56 percent of his pa'ises this year for 1,1.20 yards and nine touchdowns. lie has tossed only four interceptions, and has a first -rate corps of receivers to work with. Leading the corps is sopho­more split-end Hank Norman who has latched onto 22 passes. junior Timmie Ware, meanwhile, has averaged 20 yards a catch with his 16 receptions. Classmate Fred Cornwell, the tight end, has also caught 16 passes. 
With freshman Troy Wilson slated to start at one cor­nerback spot (co-captain Stacey Toran is questionable with stretched knee ligaments), and sophomore Pat Ballage playing at the other, Salisbury may test the young cornerbacks often. 
Senior center Tony Slaton, a pre-season all-America l·andidate in many publications, heads the usual mam­moth USC offensive line that averages 6-6, .264 pounds this year. 
Faust feels the Notre Dame defense will be once again up to the challenge. Besides being ranked ninth in the nation in total dcfesnse, the Irish have yielded just one touchdown in the la'it 14 quarters. 
"''ve really seen a lot ofimprovement defensively, mainly in our aggressiveness and confidence," says Faust. "In the two games we lost, we didn't seem to think we could go out there and make the play when we nt·cded it. but now we're playing with authority." 
The Notre Dame offense, meanwhile, ranks tenth in the nation in total offense with its 4.34-yard output per game. Only one other team in the nation, No. 3 North Carolina, is ranked in the top I 0 in both total offense 

Robinson said several times he had never worked with a man whose mind worked so quickly on offense as Tollner. 
So impressed was Robinson that he recommended to University PresidentJames Zumberge that Tollner replace him when Robinson went to join the ad­ministration. 
After only nine short months as offensive coor­dinator, Tollner was suddenly head coach at one of the nation's most prestigious football programs. 
Rather that dwell on the pressure ofmaintainingsuch a high standard program, Tollner tends to look more at the opportunity at hand. 
"Everyone here is used to winning," Tolinersaid. "So it's a standard. It's a level ofexcellence that demands a high percentage ofwins. Now ifyou look at that and say, 'Gee whiz, there's not much room for error,' that's a lot ofpressure. 
''I'd rather look at it and say, 'Hey, we've got one of those kinds ofjob1> that allows us to have a fine football team every year. So let's get excited about that instead ofworrying."' 
Tollner stopped worrying about minor things a long time ago. 
That's because he was one of 26 survivors ofa plane crash that killed 2.2 people, including 16 players, on Oct. 29, 1960. Toliner was a quarterback for Cal Poly San Luis Obispo at the time and suffered a fractured and dislocated ankle. The crash occured after the team had lost to Bowling Green and was taking off in a heavy fog at night. 
Tollner hesitates not the least in talkiog about the crash. "We all have a tendency to get too caught up or frantic when something goes wrong." he said. "We put things that are relatively minor out ofperspective. If you just sit back and look at it and compare it to some­thing that is really tragic, then It won't bother you or disturb you as much. 
"It's allowed me to put the day to day, week to week ups an downs in perspective and appreciate what I do have and not dwell on those downs." 
Maybe that's why Tollner isn't going around pinching himself, wondering if this is all true, that he is the coach at USC. 
"At the beginning I had a Ittle glow around me, thi Ink­ing, 'Boy am I lucky things worked out this way.' 
"But once you become involved in what the job en­tails that glow ofbeing infatuated with your new position wears offvery rapidly. 
"Believe me." 

• • • Revenge 
and total defense. 

The offense will be further aided with the probable return oftailback Greg Bell, who missed the last three weeks with an ankle sprain, and fullback Chris Smith, who missed the Army game with a more mild ankle sprain. 
Like the defense, the Irish offense has also been making excellent strides in the past three weeks. 
"We're executing well and we're not making mistakes," says Faust. "We've put points on the board on 17 ofour 35 possessions the last three weeks, and anytime you come near the 50 percent mark you're doing a good job. 
"We've been happy with Steve Beuerlein's develop­ment at quarterback. He hasn't been in a life-or-death situation yet, but he's had some tough spots and he's shown a lot ofpoise. Our runninggame has worked well the last few weeks. so Pinkett (who is 1 I th in the nation with his I08.5 yard rushing output per game) and the rest ofthe guys have helped to take a little ofthe pressure offBeuerlt:in. Our line ha'i gotten healthy the last two weeks, and I think things are coming together 
•
there, too." 

Senior Keith Browner, the fifth ofsix Browner brothers who have played or are playing college foot­ball, and juniorJack Del Rio hope to lead the charge against Beuerlt:in, Pinkett, & Company. The two outside linebackers are recognized as "The All-America bookends" at USC. Senior inside linebackerJeffBrown leads the Trojans in tackles with 84. 
The Trojans have been vulnerable at times to the pass this year. Kansas quarterback Frank Seurer shredded USC's defense earlier in the year when he completed 26-of-.38 passes for 385 yards. Last week Arizona State quarterback Todd Hons passed for 397 yards in the Sun Devils rout. 
Overall, the odds are in Notre Dame's favor on Satur­day afternoon. 
"We've built up some momentum the last three weeks, and that's exactly what we had hoped would happen," says Faust. "I think our players are starting to believe in themselves again, and the extra confidence really can h~_;. 
As Notre Dame teams ofthe past know, the Irish need all the extra help they can get when facing the men of Troy. 


usc 

Friday, October 21, 1983-page 11 
Larry Williams 
Californian tries to block another USC win 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
An all-too-familiar foe of the Irish •:omes into Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday. The USC roster again will pack a wealth oftalent. Ofall the talent on the field from California, however, perhaps the most talented player ofall will be wearing a Notre Dame jersey. 
The jersey number is 75, and the player is strong tackle Lar­
ry Williams. 
Williams has played a major role in the rejuvination ofthe 
Fighting Irish line since the Miami game. 
"The last few games we've been doing really well," Williams 
says. "We've cut down on our mistakes and basically decided 
that it was time to get down and hit 1;ome people." 
The presence of that attitude is evidenced by the the statis­tics from the last three games: 724 n: shing yards (an average of24I yards per game), and an average ofmore than five yards per rushing attempt. 
"We didn't have any change ofphilosophies over the last 
three games. (Head Offensive Line) Coach Selmer has kept the 
same philosophies," says Williams. "We had to accept them 
and put them into action. We are starling to gel as an offensive 
line. We're getting Mike Shiner back from his injury, and we 
are starting to get it together." 
For Williams, Shiner's injury meant switching his position 
from strong tackle to quick tackle for the last three games. The 
adjustment required him to read deknsive keys more, and 
relied more on finesse blocking than power. 
Williams does have a preference when comparing the two 
positions. "I like strong tackle better. mainly because I played 
there last year." However, the return ofShiner to the lineup 
will move Williams back to his regular position. 
The 6-6, 284-pound junior was mentioned as a preseason 
all-America choice by TheSportingNews, and big things were 
expected ofhim and the whole Irish offensive line. 
Williams, however, downplays the significance ofhis being 
on the honor squad. "It was a shock to me," Williams modestly 
states. "You have to remember that preseason is preseason." 
Colorado coach Bill McCartney, having seen Williams per­
form against the Buffs, called him "as fine a lineman as there is 

in the country." Not only Williams himself must have known how t good ofa player he had the potential to become. "I haven't yet performed up to my own expectations," he says. "I still have long way to go." 
Williams and the Notre Dame line will have their most dif­ficult test yet on Saturday, having to contain Southern Cal's defense, highlighted by two all-America bookends at linebacker-Keith Browner and jack Del Rio. 
Williams will draw the assignment ofhandling Del Rio, 
since the USC standout usually lines up on the offensive line's 
strong side. "Del Rio was probably one of the best defensive 
players we faced last year," says Williams. "But that doesn't 
mean he can't be handled. We were pretty successful against 
him last year. I don't know that much about Browner because 
I haven't had to play against him last season." 
Browner, as you recall, is former Notre Dame Outland 
Trophy winner Ross Browner's younger brother. Just as 
ironic, Williams has ties to southern California. 
A native ofSanta Ana, Cal., Williams went to the same high 
school asjohn Huarte, the most recent winner ofthe Heisman 
Trophy ( 1964) from Notre Dame. There he was highly ac­
claimed, earning mention on theParade, Adidas/Scholastic 
Coach, Coach andAthlete/National High School Athletic 
Coaches Association and Catholic All-America squads. Wil­
liams was also named to the CIF Best in the West team. 
Williams, who was considered, next to Pitt's Bill Fralic, to be the top lineman prospect in high school two years ago, was heavily recruited by USC and many other perennial college football powerhouses. The decision basically came down to Stanford, Notre Dame, and Southern California. 
Why did he end up coming to Notre Dame? "That's a tough one," laughs Williams. "Actually, Notre Dame had everythingI wanted. One ofthe big factors was that I came over for the Miami game three years ago. It was a really nice, sunny day, and all ofthe leaves were changing colors. When I came here, I saw a spirit that I didn't see at the other schools, and Iwas real­ly taken in by that." 
Williams came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1981 weighing a 
svelte 225 pounds. During the six months that followed his 
freshman season, Williams went throug t h a "mammouth" 
change -reporting to summer practice at 258 pounds. His 

Larry Williams 
Irish strong tackle 
growth was not over, however, as he again gained weight 
during thispast summerand got his weight up to 284 pounds. 
"I decided to beefmyselfup," says Williams. " When you go up against guys like Crable and Clasby in pra,ctice, you realize you need the extra weight. You either gain weight or get killed, and I guess I picked the lesser of two evils." Williams did manage to maintain his quickness and strength while gaining nearly 60 pounds. "I am a self-confessed meat and potatoes man." 
As a sophomore, Williams surged ahead to get a startingnod at tackle, and ended the season playing the most minutes of any offensive player. 
This season he and Neil Maune have been asked to assume leadership positions, being the veterans ofa relatively young offensive line. 
"Larry exemplifies the model Notre Dame football player," 
says Head Coach Gerry Faust. "He's quiet and goes out and 
gets his job done." 

"I don't talk a lot in practice, but at gameswe need to come 
together," Williams says, "and I see myselfas trying to bring 
the guys together to get us working together." 
Williams takes most things he does, like football, seriously, 
although he denies reports ofhis having a militaristic view on 
life. 

"I do get up early for breakfust every morning, because I 
have to keep myweight up," he explains. "I also get to bed ear­
ly so I won't be tired." 

Williams has changed his normal way ofdoingthings lately. 
The familiar mustache was shaven after the embarrassing loss 
to Miami. 

"It's been three weeks and we've won three games. I just 
thought that we needed a change." 
In Williams' two games against the Trojans, Southern Cal 
has been victorious both times. 
What do the people back home say about that? "I didn't get 
too much ribbing about last year's game because everyone 
knewwe really won," Williams says. "You'd be surprised how 
many people down there are really supporters ofND. There 
are a lot ofSC haters, too." 
As far as Saturday's matchup with the Men ofTroy, Williams 
echoes Coach Faust's recent "no holds barred" attitude ofin­
timidating the opposition. "We really have to come out and in­
timidate them," states Williams. "The offensive line is going to 
have to set the tone for this one, and ifthat means beingalittle 
nasty, that's what we'll have to do." 
Count on Larry Williams to be the one to make sure that the 
Trojans have a long, long trip back to his home state. 
Under Pressure 


TedTollner 
2-3-1 (first year} Predecessor: John Robinson 67-14-2 one national championship 
Gerry Faust 
15-21-1 Predecessor: Dan Devine 53-16-1 one national championship 



usc 

Friday, October 21, 1983 -page 12 
NOTRE ·DAME VS. USC 
THE GAME 
GAME: SITE: TIME:  Fighting Irish vs. Southern Cal Trojans Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 1:30 p.m. EST; Saturday, Oct. 22, 1983  
TV-RADIO:  No live television of the game is permitted by NCAA regulations. The game will be shown live via closed-circuit signal to thtc ACC Arena. Tickets are S5 each.  
Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network Harry Kala~ and George Connor 8:.30 a.m. Sunday WNDU-TV ( Ch. 16)  
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and AI Wester WNDll-AM 1500  
SERIES:  Notre Dame 27, ~outhern Cal 23, ties 4  

LAST MEETING: November 27, 1982 
Southern Cal 17, Notre Dame 13 RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, Southern Cal unranked TICKETS: Game is sold out 
THE SCHEDULE 
NOTRE DAME SOUfHERN CAL SEPT. 10 def. Purdue, 52-6 SEPT. 10 tied Florida, 19-19 SEPT. 17 lost to Mich. State, 28-23 SEPT. 17 def. Oregon State, 33-10 SEPT. 24lost to Miami (Fla.), 20-0 SEPT. 24 lost to Kansas, 26-20 OCT. 1 def. Colorado, 27-3 OCT. 1 lost to S. Carolina, 38-14 OCT. 8 def. S. Carolina, 30-6 OCT. 8 def. Wash. State, 38-1 7 OCT. 15 def. Army, 42-0 OCT. 1 5 lost to Ariz. State, 34-14 OCT. 22 SOUTHERN CAL OCT. 22 at Notre Dame OCT. 29 NAVY OCT. 29 at California NOV. 5 PITTSBURGH NOV. 5 STANFORD NOV. 12 at Penn State NOV. 12 at Washington NOV. 19 AIR FORCE NOV. 19 UCLA 

A 
TEAM STATISTICS ND TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2605 Total Plays 463 Yards per Play 5.6 Yards per Game 434.2 PENALTIES·YARDS 45-432 FUMBLES-LOST 12-4 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 134 By Rushmg 80 By Passing 48 By Penalty 6 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 46-96 Percentage .479 POSSESSION TIME 195 06 Minutes per Game 3231 PASSING G NO co PCT INT YDS TD Beuerle1n 5 63 38 .603 0 546 Kiel 6 77 39 .506 5 491 K.Smith 3 2 1 .500 0 15 Cushing 1 1 1 1.000 0 12 Grooms 1 2 0 .000 0 0  
ND 6 145 79 .545 51064 OPP 6171 88 .515 10 926 RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TD LG  
Howard 6 16 218 13.6 Pinkett 6 14 146 10.4 1 Bavaro 6 10 143 14.3 3 Smith 6 8 93 11.6 Jackson 6 6 138 23.0 0 Favorite 5 6 92 15.3 0 Bell 3 6 65 10.8 Francisco 5 5 51 10.2 0 Jefferson 6 3 47 15.7 0 Miller 6 1 25 25 0 0 Abraham 4 1 17 17.0 0 Machtoil 2 1 12 12.0 0 Brooks 6 1 11 11.0 0 Williams 4 1 6 6.0 0  
NOTRE DAME 6 79 1064 13.5 7 OPPONENTS 6 88 926 10.5 5  

THE STATISTICS OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TD LG 
1573 Pinkett 6 117 655 5.6 6 53 388 Smith 6 43 260 6.0 1 37 
Short 
4.1 Bell 3 33 163 4.9 4 50 

262.2 Francisco 5 30 158 5.3 0 33 32-293 Brooks 6 21 119 5.7 2 31
Review 
18-7 Machtolf 3 11 58 5.3 0 13 92 Flemons 2 13 52 4.0 0 34 

36 Grooms 1 2 33 16.5 0 25 46 Abraham 4 12 31 2.6 1 11 The Irish outgained the 
1982 

10 Howard 6 3 31 10.3 0 21 29-88 Carter 1 2 9 4.5 0 9Trojans, 312-264, committed 
.330 K1el 6 17 -7 -0.4 1 7 no penalties, held usc to 
164.54 Beuerle1n 5 14 -21 ·1.5 0 8 jiJSt 46 yards passing, and 
2729 ND 6 318 1541 4.8 15 53did not commit a turnover 
OPP 6 217 647 3.0 3 34 until the final seconds, yet lost, 14-7. Todd Spencer ran 
SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP 

the ball in for a touchdown 3 Pinkett 6 7 0-0 0·0 0 0-0 42from 26 yards out with less 
4 Johnston 6 0 22-22 0-0 0 6-11 40 than five minutes remaining 
0 Bell 3 5 0-0 0·0 0 0·0 30 in the game to give the Tro­0 Bavaro 6 3 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 18 0 Smith 6 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 
jans the victory. 
Brooks 6 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 7 Abraham 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 5 Howard 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6
1983 
K1el 6 1 0·0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Team 6 0 0-0 0-0 1 0-0 2
Notre Dame fans call it the "Phantom Touchdown," but 
ND 6 22 22-22 0-0 1 6-11174 OPP 6 8 6-7 0-1 0 3-4 63

1 58 59 Michael Harper's one-yard 
dive without the football and 
22 
DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FA BK
with just 48 seconds left in 

1 26 61the game was ruled a 
FurJanic 80 2-4 3 0 018 Kovaleski 43 2·4 3 0 0
touchdown and gave the Tro­

1 23 Golic 32 9-27 1 1 0
15
jans a come-from-behind 17­
Naylor 31 0-0 1 0 016 Ballage 26 1·3 4 0 0
13 win. The Irish pushed the 
25 Johnson 24 3-11 2 2 0
Trojans around the field on 
17 

Gann 23 0-0 1 0 0 the ground, but USC's 
12 Toran 19 0-0 0 0 0
11 
Brown 18 0·0 3 0 0
quarterback, Scott Tinsley, 
6 
Autry 17 2-9 0 1 0
brought them back through 
61
the air. The Irish had been 
Dingens 11 3-9 2 0 0
81 
DiBernardo 10 2-3 2 0 0
lee jing, 13-3, at one point. 


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 

the  spread.  In  other  words,  it  is  not  
enough  to  pick  the  winner  of  a  given  Louie Somogyi  Mike Sullivan  Will Hare  Jane Healey  David Dziedzic  Dr. Emil Holman  Cathy Chopp  
game. The person must pick given the underdog points.  a  winner  Sports Writer 48-32-1 .599  Sports Editor 44-36·1 .549  Sports Writer 42·38·1 .531  Asst. Sports Editor 42-38·1 .531  Editor-in-Chief 37-43-1 .463  Guest Celebrity 38-42·1 .475  Random Studen1 40-40·1 .500  
MICHJ<;AN over Iowa by 6  Hawkeyes  Wolverines  Hawkeyes  Hawkeyes  Hawkeyes  Wolverines  Wolverines  
GEORGIA over Kentucky by 16  Bulldogs  Wildcats  Bulldogs  Bulldogs  Wildcats  Bulldogs  Bulldogs  
West Virginia over PENN STATE by 3  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  lions  lions  lions  
TENNESSEE over Gt·orgia Tech by 12  Volunteers  Jackets  Jackets  Jackets  Volunteers  Volunteers  Volunteers  
Minnesota over NORTHWESTERN by 3  Wildcats  Wildcats  Wildcats  Gophers  Wildcats  Wildcats  Gophers  
NEBRASKA over Colorado by 42  Cornhuskers  Buffs  Buffs  Buffs  Buffs  Cornhuskers  Buffs  
Illinois over PtJRDl!E by I 0  Boilers  lllini  lllini  lllini  lllini  lllini  lllini  
WISCONSIN over Indiana by 14  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Badgers  Hoosiers  Hooskrs  Badgers  
Texas over SMll by 9  Longhorns  Mustangs  Mustaogs  Mustangs  Longhorns  Longhorns  Longhorns  
Washingwn over OREGON by 10.5  Huskies  Ducks  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  
Arizona over STANFORD by 12  Wildcats  Wildcats  Cardinal  Wildcats  Cardinal  Wildcats  Cardinal  
I.Sll overS. Carolina hy !!  Tigers  Tigers  Gamecocks  Tigers  Gamecocks  Tigers  Tigers  
NOTRE DAME over Southern Cal by 10  Irish  Irish  Trojans  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  



Friday, October 21, 1983 -page 13 
Letters to a Lonely (iod 
Luth~er's Shoulder 
In a topsy-turvy world, you can't 
count on systems depending on the Human Element for their stability.

by Rev. Rob,ert Griffin 
features columnist 

I
Medievalists had built a house they n the seventh grade, I got my first :;alvation through the blood of the called the Catholic faith. "let's open grouwnup Bible: a leather-bound Lamb. He hasn't updated in forty 
the window to the winds ofchange," I King james version, with thin, gold" years. He reads the same Bible he suggested PopeJohn XXIII. The win­leafed pages. I didn't read it much used in Sunday school. dows were opened. Centuries'-old except in Sunday school. The Con­Pat O'Brien, the actor, died last definitions and legalisms were gone gregational Church stressed the Old , ~iaturday. I watch the late shows to before morning. Christ -the same 
Testament, where we learned ethi­~ee him play the old-fashioned yesterday, today, and forever ­cal lessons from the examples ofthe priest. When I was little, I used to go remains the foundarion stone. We've patriarchs. I didn't worry about get­see Tom Mix; I wanted to be a cow­been busy building new walls for the Noel Coward's delightful English comedy, "Private Lives," 
ting close to the old, rugged cross hoy. Later I wanted to be a priest the oldJerusalem, just as Marrin Luther presented by the South Bend Civic Theatre, continues today, Satur­until a school chum got saved at a way Pat O'Brien was a priest. He was had to do after the Reformation. You day, and next Thursday through Saturday at the Firehouse Theatre. Baptist service. Every day, he quoted ~' hero who had all the answers, but The show begins at 8:30p.m., and reservations are available by calling
have to be good-natured, and not get me something different from St. the questions have changed. Some­nostalgic, when you remember the 233-0683. Paul, while I was stuck halfway be­thing funny happened to the ancient glory that was Rome. Is it not The ancient comedy "Lysistrata" finishes its run at the Northside tween the Book of)oshua and the faith: we scuttled the baggage Main Hall Theatre on the Indiana University at South Bend campus,
legitimate to promise: I'll never psalms of David. picked up during the Middle Ages. again be so smug about faith? today and tomorrow at 8:15 p.m. and Sunday at 2:15 p.m. The play, Wanting a New Testament faith, I Vatican II made Pat O'Brien an out­Marrin Luther, they say, written by Aristophanes in 412 B.C., centers on a group ofGreek got born again as a Baptist after ofdate priest. feminists and their warring husbands. Tickets are avalable by calling
represents the last flowering of 237-4396.

hearing the Atonement preached. A religious system may look as religion in the Middle Ages. When 
The death ofthe Lord took the top of deathless as poetry, but it's not his 500th birthday comes on my head off, especiallysince the Pas­much help unless you can plug into November I 0, I will light candleson •MUSIC sion turned out so well. The Baptists :it. Practitioners ofthe differing his birthday cake. November 10 is Kenneth Drake, renowned pianist and music scholar, will perform 
stressed the crucifixion more than :>tyles offaith all say grace is available works by Beethoven on an historic piano tomorrow at 8:15p.m. in the
also the anniversary date ofmy bap­the Congregationalists did. The Cat­:>0 that their kind ofworship will Northside Recital Hall on the Indiana University at South Bend
tism as a Catholic. Lately, I've been holies, I kept feeling, drew me closer work for you. Perhaps it will, ifyou trying to look at St. Paul over Lut­campus. Drake, who holds degrees.from the Eastman School ofMusic to the cross than Baptists did. I :rre imaginative enough. Idon't think her's shoulder, and over Paul's and the University ofIllinois, will play an -1816 Broadwood piano wanted to attend Mass and receive :tt's the devil that makes me agnostic which is identical to the one presened to Beethoven by the Broad­
shoulder at the Lord jesus Christ. the Eucharist. Communion was of­:tbout so much ofreligion. Self­Luther is proving more helpful in wood firm. Drake has gained acclaim for his performance ofBeet­fered once a month in the New :tppointed prophets make the Lord hoven's work on pianos built during the composer's lifetime, and has
this born-again Church than the England meeting houses. The little :>Ound as obnoxious as the town bul­writings ofSt. Thomas Aquinas. played on historic instruments at numerous universities and conven­cups ofgrape juice and the squares ly. Ignorance is still ignorace, tions. Admission for the performance is $2. 
I wanted the liturgy with rituals ofstore bread were only symbols. though it can quote you the Bible, beautiful enough to be the channels 
•ART

The Yankee fisherman's kid hun­chapter and verse. of the grace and mystery ofthe An exhibition, "Photographs by Fritz Kaeser," will open in the Snite
gered for the living sacrament from While young, I settled on a faith Word made Flesh. God, I think, Museum on Sunday, October 30. The one man show covers the Tus­
the Catholic altar. with credentials that proved it true. leaves every church ambiguous con, Arizona photographer's work from the 1930's to the present.
As a college freshman new to the Catholics were diverse in their tradi­enough in its witness so that we have 
Catholic Church, I was smug with rions, and argued philosophy and to continue searching. We look over faith. Nowadays, I am more humble rheology, but among them, I felt at the shoulders ofthe saints, hoping 
•MASS about truth. My school chum stayed peace with Christ. The Yankee flS­for insights. They also see dimly, as The Masses this Sunday in Sacred Hean Church willhave the folio". 
with the Baptists and the verities of ilerman's kid had come home to a though in a mirror. Each one must ing celebrants: Paul, and was ordained as a preac­:>acramental universe undreamed of do his own believing as he must do Fr. DanieiJenky, at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil)her. The old-time religion doesn't by Henry David Thoreau, with his his own dying, wrote Luther. No­
Fr. David Schlaver, at 9 a.m. change for him; the Gospel he 'lew England mind, spendingwinter thing in the world is more personal Fr. Edward Malloy, at 10:30 preaches still offers unconditional 
lt Walden Pond. than the grace offaith. Fr. David Schlaver, at I 2:15 

Bad reputatio~n and fake friends aside 
Joan Jett loves rock 'n roll 
by Karen NlcCloskey 
features staff writer 
obviously a lot different. She's not saying 'put another notch in my lipstick case.' It's not that 'hit me with your best shot kind of men­
tality.' Hers is a more androgenous kind ofthing; talking about sex the way my thinking person can under­stand, you know, the humor. 'Touch Me' is kind ofa joke. 'Handyman' is a serious outlook on it. I think 

Joan lett 
'Handyman' is one ofthe greatest songsjoanie and I ever wrote. 
"People find it offensive that women people think about sex or talk about it. It (the songs) comes outofjoanie. It's panofher instinct, just like 'Fake Friends.' 
"Joanie is just)oanie. She does everything on irlStinct. She doesn't try to be ahead ofher time. She's a modern person, where indepen­dence is important." Indeed, the name Blackhearts means people who stand alone. 
The band also reflects)ett's in­fluence. "The end word isjoan. She'lllisten to everybody. But the bottom line isjoanie musically, stage, whatever it is. We all believe in the same thing and that's the rock 'n roll subculture. That is more im­portant than just the music. It's a communication ofthe youth." 
The Blackhearts' current tour 
began in April ofthis year. "In 
January,(1984)" Laguna says, "we 
are goingto take a little break and on 
February 13 we'll start Scandanavia. 
Then we'll do a tour of Europe and )oanie wants to do a tour of)apan and Austrailia. 
"Joan is always on the move. In a sertSe, she's been on tour for four years. When we stop to do an album, she still does these crazy things. We played in the middle ofthe jungle in the Dominican Republic. Sometimes we'll do a sneak gig in a little col­lege." 
Loverboy pursuedjett and her crew for their concert tour. At first the Blackheans did not accept the offer. "Our band was tight with The Police on a personal level and agency relationship. The image of The Police is magical. Last year was a magic tour. This year we had a few cities where the kids thought they were a little bit too hip for rock 'n roll." 

"They have what I call cerebral rockfans. They're people lookingfor deeper meanings than sex and drugs and rock 'n roll which is what I was brought up on. I believe in it. I believe in the rock 'n roll sub· culture:" 
Whatever their beliefs, J ett and company will keep on rocking their fans. With another album scheduled to follow the European tour, the out­look for the band is promising. 
"The whole thrust of the band is to be around in five or 10 years and to be something meaningful. The God's honest truth is there's no money motivation in the band. Ifwe make money, nobody's going to be embarrassed. But, that is not the reason we're out there." 
Jett and her band emulate The Who and The Rolling Stones. Laguna would like the Blackheans to make a significant impact on the rock sub­culture. They crave a legendary identity like their friends, The Who. "There's a rock history we feel that's important as anything going out there. We believe that rock 'n roll. has made the world stronger. It's an­other media for communication which helped develop a genera­tion." 
There's reason to believe thatJett will someday beJagger's female equivalent in rock history. 
"JoanJett is looking for three good men. No show-offs, please 
This ad placed in an LA. free music paper marked the beginning of)oan Jett and the Blackhearts. 
Since its founding, the band has released two LP.'s:/Love Rock'N Roll (Boardwalk 1981 ) and more recently,Album (Biackheart/MCA 1983). 
Cuts from this album will be featured whenjett and her Black­hearts perform as special guests of Loverboy next Saturday, October 29 at the Notre Dame ACC. It promises to be a spectaculareveningofrock'n roll. 
In an interview yesterday, Kenny Laguna,Jett's manager and close friend talked candidly about the group, it's style and it's outspoken lead singer. 
Laguna, a veteran in the music business met the Philadelphia born rocker in 1979. He was called to aid in the production ofajett soundtrack. Laguna said he knew im­mediately that "Joanie had that quality." After cuttingjett's solo al­bum BadReputation (Boardwalk 198I ) Laguna tried to get contracts with various record companies. 
H.: said that he"became so obsessed with it that I stopped doing other work." When several com­panies refusedjett because ofher bad reputation with her former 
group The Runaways, Laguna and _lett took the promotion under their own control. 
"Every town we went to, we'd call up the radio stations. Any radio sta­tion that let us come over ... we'd do an interview. We gradually developed a bunch ofradio stations that would play our record. We got ::trong college support. The college base was amazing what it did for us." 
"Then we got all ofNew England, 'lew York, Philadelphia, Washing­ton,D.C. ... and we were pulling off amiracle. We didn't even have a dis­tributor. Everythingwas done out of the backseat ofmy car." 
After a few engagements in England and ··a club tour in Holland that was horrendous," the band came back to the U.S. "We got rid of the drummer and put in lee Crystal. He was magic. Then about a year later we got Ricky Byrd. He fit in per­fectly." These two, along withJett and bassist Gary Ryan, form the cur­rent group. 
Laguna co-writes withJett many ofthe songs that the band produces. But some ofthe tunes, especially the onesfrom the Runaway era("You're Too Possessive," "Playing with Fire" and "Don't Abuse Me"') wert:' penned byJett alone. 
Speaking aboutAlbum, Laguna said, "There's a lot about sex in this album: sex, love, relationships, stuff like that. Joanie's approach to sex is 
TIN! 0/JRrwr LaFortune offie< accepts classified advertising 
from 9 o.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. Th• Obs•rver Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of 
Haggar College Center. is open from 12:30 p.m. lo J p.m. 
Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified 
service is 3 p.m. All classitieds I'<)USt be prepaid. either in per­son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per
Classifieds 

Friday, October 21, 1983 -page 14 
day. 


I DESPERATELY NEED 6 USC GA'S. I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S OR MOM & DAD 
TO 3RD FLOOR HOLY CROSS We WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFER. CALL WILL DO ME BODILY HARM CALL 
\lli()ndered about the pnce of talk Reahze
A very RICH friend needs PITT GA'a He

..___NO_TIC_E_s___.l L-1_W._I\N_T_ED_~ HELP 
KERR I AT 234-9t14. HELP!II MATTAT1482 you may have had plans-nohce got 1n
Is willing to pay serious dollars for the 
later than hoped. You are sltll presumed

Typtng ALL KINDS 2n·8534 after 5:30 tickets. Please help by calling David at 
innocent until you can prove yourself wild 
277·1326.

Need 2 Loverboy Ttckets Jeff (t377) We'll try agatn after break-neutral 
PRO· TYPE 12 yrs expenence You'll be glad you did NEEDED One GA for USC. Call Jan THE 'HAUGH SAYS: DIE CRUNCH! 
grounds?!? Have a WICked week! Hal­Spectahztng tn dtssertations, 2966.
To-or·from wantMPLS needMPLS brk loween approaches-The Judges p.s No manuscnpts, theses, and student papers ball 1s set-you're released on your own
MPLS dave3039ttpm

Call2n·5833 for rates recogn1zance.
FOR FOR SALE: ONE STUD NAVY A1ders needed to No V&oDC area; one NEED 3 NAVY TIX CALL 272·8056 TICKET CALL 8423 
I NEED 2 USC GAs CALL JACK 277· way or both. Leave Sun Oct 23 Call Tnsh 

IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR 33t5.
$44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­at 284·5213 or Mary beth at 1277 MENT/ GET THE FACTS TODAYI CALL NOW THAT THE FARRELL T-SHIRT 
(312) 742 1t42, EXT 73t6 HELP!I I need t STUDENT and t GA ttx NEED USC STUDENT TIX, GREG ton BEEN RETURNED 409
Need a nde to Ctnctnatt lor fall break for HAS TO 
for the USC game!! Please call Julie at

two people. Wtlltng Need 4 NAVY GAs Doug 2774273 KEENAN, THE REAL FARRELL Don't Fogel Pandora s Fnday Happy 44341 
RETURNS TO NOTRE DAMEIll HAVE .6 
Hour From 3.00 · 6.00 you'll save 5&o oN 

Rtders urgently needed to Chait. TN or FOR SALE USC GA'S MAKE AN OFFER! WICKED GOOD WEEKEND, BILLY! 
all used books and 2&. off all new books. 

pis between Charles t465 WISH I COULD BE HE RElit
I AM WILLING TO TRADE 2 AIR FORCE 282·t92t Bend Ave STUD. TIX ANI3'oOR CASH FOR ONE 
Stop tn and see our selectton. 937 So. 

Help 1 Desperately need Navy GA's. Call HELP! DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO Htnl to Tim L: I am about your hetght. I
Joe at 6430 or Jerry at 2295PIT STUD. TIX OR GA. MY GIRLFRIEND 

0 C CALL MEGAN AT 4238(SMC) have brown. well combed ha1r Love. your IS ALSO NEGOTIABLE. CALL BARNEY 
secret adm~rer!

FOR SALEBLOW A NAY USC WITH BUBBLES NEED STUDENT DURING BREAK TO t222. 
FOR SALE 
WORK WITH APPLE lie AND LIST NEED BOTH G.A AND STUDENT TIX FOR SALETHE SPtRrr IS HERE TO STAY HANDLER -WORD HANDLER FOR ALL REMAINING HOME GAMES. 

SOFTWARE AT CENTER FOR SOCIAL 

I NEED 2 USC GA'S. BIG DOLLARS. CALL MARTY AT 8639. One USC student ticket. Best offer.
ATTENTION BAHAMA BOUND 
CONCERNS. PAID, STUDENT RATE. Boston Club October Break Bus
Call Mike at 239-5323 or 283-3346.
CALL3522.

SENIORSIIII REMEMBER TO BE AT 
CALL 5319 IF INTERESTED. Loadtng at 6:30 p.m. at the C.CE.. STEPAN AT 230 AM SUNDAY BRING 
departtng around 7 p.m. Rafraahments PROPER 1.0 ANY QUESTIONS I CALL 3 FRIENDS FROM KOKOMO FEEL
wanted. 2 ttckets to navy game. call277· as usual on the bus. Eat d1nner before the DONNA8847011 STELLA 6t4t SCALPING SHOULD BE LEGAL. NEED
4533 after 5pm HELP! I need 3.4.or 5 PITT GA's. Call bus leaves. Have a WICked awesome Kevinat88n 3 GA TIXS FOR USC GAME. CALL MIKE break. One roundtnp and two one ways PART TIME BARTENDER POSITIONS 
PERSONALS 
NEED 2 PITT TICKETS PLEASE AT 287·3565. (B~ston to NO) remain avatlable. 
OPEN TO STUDENTS. HOURS ADVISE.. 7979 
FLEXIBLE APPLY IN PERSON ONLY 
Dear Cindy T., Welcome to N.D. I love AFTER 8 P M. HICKORY HIRAM'S. 
NEED 4 NAVY GAs DOUG-2n·4273

Fiioe NEEDED To o.c AREA FOR you. Mike 
NEED TWO (2) GA'S for, yes USCII $$CORNER OF MISHAWAKA AVE. AND BREAK. CAN LEAVE SUNDAY. 23RD. 

MAIN ST. MISHAWAKA CALL8906
CALL PETE AT 2n·8366. NEED RIDE to Niagra.NY area call John 
I need 2 Pitt GA tid<ets. Call Dave at2n· One usc atudent ticket. Beat C'fler. at 8830 Need nde to Mad.. Wise. area bet. 1~4 
RIDE NEEDED. for break. to t327. Call Mike at 25-5323 or 2113-3348. 
BLOOMINGTON ex~ on 1-55. wtll share HELPIIII I need two NAVY GA's $$$$$

& t~8. Keep calling Den 287-6273. $$! IT'S CASSIE'S BIRTHDAYIII DRWK 
BEERIll HAPPY CATMIII
usual. Chris. 234-7033. Call3872 

GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUTII TRY A 
DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE need Pitt GAs 212·t758 
I NEED USC TICKETS. WILL PAY YELLOW SUBMAR1NE. NOW DELIVER· 

CASH OR TRADE ~ I PnT. CALL 

lNG MON-SAT 9-t2pm. CALL 272·4453 
,.;;;;;·i:iid;·~k~·N:v;;;;L:i·;~~-~i·;;;;d JEAfiY AT 111713 AfTER I p.m. t need tid<eta to any remaining home

' LOST/FOUND I LAVERNE
BRENDA (YES LAVERNE)

of Oct Break. If you can help call PAUL at game (NAVY, PITT, or AIR FORCE) Call ,..~..PiTT..ilA:~: ..c;;n"o~::kl ..;d"277. 
STIRKS IS HAVING A BIRTHDAY. THAT 
2n·4067 Joe ar 1208 BEFORE you seH yours. 
1328. 

MEANS THAT THERE IS GOING TO BE GOTSTA HAVE NAVY GA's x1695 .................................... 
LOST:NAVY BLUE LIGHT·WEIGHT A PORT·A-PARTY. SINCE THIS IS HER PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET THIS JACKET DUE TO CANCELLATION. ONE SPACE d. COOi<'ou:r:·L.·ovER BOY AND A&.Dc 
21st BIRTHDAY, THIS PORT·A·PARTYHAS A GREAT AMOUNT OF SEN· LEFT ON WASHINGTON DC BUS CALL "AIIo t022'*-1t01 $$$$WILL PAY TOP ARE COMING TO THE ACC ..SOONI IS GOING TO BE MASSIVE. REALLYTIMENTAL VALUE AND SO REWARD 

CHRIS8796 WILL BE GIVEN. PLEASE CALL 88t0 I need 2 tickets for the USC Game for 
DOLLAR FOR 4 PITT GA'S$$$$ CALL REALLY MASSIVE. REMEMBER THAT 
AND ASK FOR JOHN. priest who is offering eternal bliss in JOHN 1610 I WOULD WRITE THIS WITH MY SHE WILL BE HOME TO ACCEPT 
BLOOD IF IT COULD GET ME USC BIRTHDAY CALLS AND KISSES· 209returnI! call Kurt at 3698. 
TICKETS. I WILL PAY CASH OR 
PW.2955. TRADE FOR 6 PITT. CALL JERRY AT 
LOST. Please. who'""' found my gold 
watch, call Debbte at 2n·4309 It was I AM THE O·MAN. I WANT USC TIX. I x1763 AFTER 6 p.m. 
dropped on the road near the Grotto. or by LITTLE JOHN! ALL THE WAY WITH THE 
WILL NOT PAY EXORBITANT PRICES. 

[£_OR SALE =oJ usc Tix needed. Call t n6. ................................................................
the tram tracks at SMC. Reward offered OCAT'S YOU PSEUDO·OPTOMETRIST 
CALL 1723 Court-martial the Cap'nl Court-martial 
YOUI LET'S MAKE THE PANGBORN the Cap'nl Court-martial the Cap'nl
LOST Woman's Stiver dtgtlal watch on PUSHER A LEGITIMATE DOCTOR Tues. Oct. tt. between Haggar Center CASH for USC tickets (G.A. preferably). 
(LITTLE JOHN. 0.0.· AND NOT ON butcherblock looseball table lor sale like 

Cap 'n Crunch Week:
and Madeleva Please call M C at 4302. I NEED PITT TICKETS. DESPERATELY YOUR MUSCLE RELAXANTS) BADIN
Call Mike at t850.

new call255 Ott6 A bad joke run amuck! SENDS ITS BEST. YOU KNOW YOU
NEED GA OR STD. TICKS FOR 4 GOA· FOUND. Portrait of gtrl, found in Crowley CAN DO IT. WE DO TOO. LOVE. KELLY 
GEOUS GIRLS· IT MAY BE WORTH BUBBLES! 
Hall of Mustc. Written on the back IS the AND CYNTH. PS BY THE WAY·YOU 
YOUR WHILE !I CALL TOM 8549. 
HELPI I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL

lollowtng To Gary, wrth all of my love, For Sale. Fuzzbuster. Less than one year STUDY TOO MUCH. P P.S. DIRTY DAVE AT t80t MOVIES IN THE HOTEL ROOM WILL 
P.O.O.o... I'm sooo happy you're here. 
Yours Always. Kathy old. Excellant condition. Price to Anyway, Ws all right if I love youl! 
NOT BE TOLERATED. GOOD LUCK I 

Negoltate. call Ruth 277 ·8425 PHOOPH LOST Two Fountam pens tn small. brown 
leather case. BIG DOLLARS REWARD 
HAVE 2 USC GA'S for sale. Call John SODOM AND GOMORRAH FRIDAY Call 2n·6367 No qqesttons asked. FOR SALE: ONE USC STUDENT TICK­
1188. NITE USC 'PREPARATION' 
COMING SOON GROUND ZERO A1se like lions after slumber, In unvan­
PLEASE IIIII ET. BEST OFFER BY 5:00FRIDAY. TIM BUBBLES AT A DINING HALL NEAR 
qutshable number. Shake your chains to 

x3810 Remember last year at USC/ The touch· earth like dew Whtch In sleep had fallen
LOST: Gold Timex WATCH without num· YOU down 'the refs gave for lree ND·USC " 
bers on face. Thurs , 1&.t3 between Need 5 G.A. NAVY tickets call Gus at on you· Ye are many· they are few.
REVENGE FOR THE IRISH' T·shtrts on (Shelley) the
North Dintng Hall & L8W1S l.Jz · 33t Lewts 2550392 during the day seats need not be sale this week during dinner · all dining
$$$$ NEED 2 GA TIXS FOR NAVY. NEW ART SCHOOL celebrates ...
·No. 78t5 conseecutive. halls$6.00
FOR SALE: 2 USC GA's. Best offer call 

CALL MIKE AT 1475. 284·4624(days) or 2n·t797 (7·1 O) OMAHA ride needed to OMAHALOST. A gold sktrtptn (looks like BLOW AWAY USC BUBBLES BUBBLES (Creighton) after the game call Joe at
overstzed safety ptn) on South Quad ear· BUBBLES
PfTT GA'S NEEDEDIll Will pay big$$$$ 779t (leave message) ly Thursday evemng Of GREAT sen· 
YESIItoo need 1 USC GA or student tick· ltmental value' K found. please call Dot 2 USC GA'S For Sale. Best Offer. Jim 
Call Tom Hollerbach collect at (312) 565· et. Please call Julie 284·5212 DANA HOVIG DANA HOVIG DANA 

5959. ATTN NEW ART SCHOOL HOWNo 386t 
2n·0576 HOVIG BEWARE!II! 
ABOUT A TUTORIAL? 4:30 BE THERE 

found· calculator:on lhUfsday october t3 MOM & DAD WELCOME TO SMC We II TRICIA BOOKER CONSIDER YOUR·you tell me its type and where 11 was lost 
For sale:Navy Student Ticket $15 Call have a great ttme in Chicago· TMH 
FOR SALE STUDENT SEASON FOOT· SELF DETHRONED DICTATORS DONT and I gtve it to you 
Sheri at 2703 NEED NAVY TICKETS. PLEASE CALL

BALL TIX CALL JIM 289-9t72 LIVE FOREVER 3RD FLOOR WONT GRETCHEN. 2n·4882 
THE SPIRIT IS HERE TO STAY PUT UP WITH YOUR REIGN OF TEA·LOST: One pa~r of DIADORA tennts ROR ANY LONGER DEMOCRACYshoeS··whrte wrth blue stnpe. If lound, 
Boston Club/Phllly Club Tallgater.please contact Chns. at 3t13. THANKS!II $$$ I NEED 4 USC STUDENT OR G.A. 
LIVES IN OUR HEARTS YOU WILL GET

FOR SALE NAVY STUD TIX CHEAP' Refreshments and food way before. all 
YOURS TONITE from the revolultonary
TIX $$$CALL ED 2n·6295 NAVY TIX FOR SALE 2 stud tix, John.

TOMAT3230 during. and way atter USC game. Look for 
rebels

LOST. To whomever took my blue NO 3306 
the Falcon and signs on Green Field near bool!bag from south dtmng hall at lunch on 
senior bah. Yo. come have some fun With t &.t4. PLEASE return the contents to the 
NEED 4 USC GAS. WILL PAY BIG $$$$ some wild Eaaternera. 
FOR SALE: 1 h.p. Flint & Walling w­owner (on the notebool!s) You have my 

AND THROW IN A CASE OF MOLSONS NEED 4 PITT GA'S. CAN'T LET MOM Boston Club October Break Bua.
mator In that bag (plus I'm blind ...,o my pump, new motor& parte, $125; ~1. DEAR MOM,DAD AND BRIGID Let's 
CANADIAN! CALL DAVE AT 3127. AND DAD DOWN. CALL LISA 1839 OR 

glasses) pre..ure tank, $50. Had to put In a new Loading at 6:30 p.m. at the C.C.E., Beat HELL out of USC and take rt on back TOM t002. 
home to TEXAS. Love, your son FOUND BUBBLES BUBBLES BUBBLES of N.D. 
well • cannot uM old pump and tank. departing around 7 p.m. Refreshment• 
Call272-3753 after 6 p.m. as usual on the bus. Eat dinner before the CALL M L. BRENNAN 288-5390 HELP! I NEED GltoSTU USC TIX. Laurence of Amenca JED I 
bus leaves. Have a wicked awesome RECRUITING FUTURE DOMERS. HELP I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S FOR MY break. One roundtrip and two one waysFOUND SUITCOAT AT T SYR AT SMC We Love Captatn Crunch I 
LAURA6832 GRANDPARENTS WILL PAY (Boston to NO) remain avatlable. CLUBHOUSE ON SATURDAY NIGHT 
For sale. 2 student tickets for USC. Call WHATEVER CALL FRANK 7449

CALL 284·429t TO CLAIM 283·7409 Cap·n Crunch says HOWDY to Matt Kelty 
Phllty Club/Boston Club Tallgatah.
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

and his H.S. buddies! Let's PARTY!! I LOST A SILVER COLORED BACK· 
Cheesesteaks. chowdah, Hoagtes and
NEED B GAS FOR PITT MUST BE IN 

Boston Baked Beans won't be served. but PACK WITH TEAR IN BOTTOM. CON· PAIRS. CALL KEVIN AT 8636. 
FOR SALE: 2 GA'S & 2 TIX FOR USC. plenty of refreshments will. Saturday at 8 BOXERS? NO LET'S T P USC 4· 7 203 TAINS IMPORTANT NOTES. HAS THE DESPERATELY NEED 2 USC GA'S BPFRIDAY Ill
a.m. on Green Field near Senior Bar WORD MacGregor WRITTEN ON THE 
LEAVING TOWN SAT. A.M. CALL 1973 

$$$$CALL JACK AT 277·5408 Look for the Infamous Falcon. Everyone ANYnMEI MUST SELLI
SIDE IN BLACK. PROBABLY LOST ON welcome. Hey STACELLA and JULES... you'
NEED 2 USC GAS. CALL SUSAN 6967 FRIDAY. OCT. t4 IF YOU FIND IT, MY Nal Happy Birthday already! Hope your 
GRADES WILL THANK YOU. REWARD To all of the Notre Dame Football b·days are spectal even though we won't
I NEED 2 USC TIX GA'S OR STUDENTS. 

IS OFFERED CALLJIM AT No t766 2 USC GA'S for sale. Best Offer Pat 8626 Managers, You guys do a great servtce to be there. You're both mantacs already For sale: 2 stud. Navy tix. Call 8036 or WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL MIKE 
the team. PLEASE let us repay you in now shove it! No JOkes! Love,Chenal and 8038 if interested. t770 Shell
some way The Cheerleaders. 
FOR SALE ·USC GA CALL RICH at 288­CHRIS KELLY Luck o' the Irish to you on
• LOST. Betge reverSible medtum·wetght 7446 tackeltn AB lobby of North Dtntng Hall on 
HELPII NEED USC GAS OR ANY HOME I AM SELLING 8 USC TIXS. WILL Saturday. I know you've got what it takes. Show them! Have a great break. 
t O·t5·83 II you know the whereabouts. GAME.272-6306,2321486. SETTLE FOR $20 CALL JIM t780 Helen Calacct,l got your personal nght please call x8728 or return to Lost and here. Today is the day. On I y loots screw
FOR SALE: 2 USC General Admission 

GREATEST TALENT SHOW IN THE
Found tn ADM Bldg REWARD wllh the BOSS. You look so darling wtlhTtekets. Callt402 HISTORY OF THE WORLD! THE SORIN 
your face tn the dtrt. How cold DOES 11 get
Need 2 or 4 GA tlx for USC game and 2 LET'S MAKE A DEAL -WILL TRADE 4 

TALENT SHOW. ON SORIN'S PORCH. 
outside Grace Hall in the mtddle of the
GA'a for Navy game. Please call Helen GA PITT TIX FOR 4 GA USC TIX • TOM 

Jacket Jound atter PRE·LAW CARAVAN. SAT. 1Q.t2 (BEFORE THE USC GAME) ntght? P.S. I reserved a bench lor you Wed Oct. t9 Call Paul. 8437. to tdenttfy For Sale: t Loverboy tteket. NEED to sell 
at 2114-5501 815-729-4111 (or vice versa). COME SEE SINGING, DANCING, COM· 
EDY AND GOLDFISH. 
Call Ann x8038. To my buddtes tn t32 Dtllon. Good Luck 
LOST: PAIR OF GREY PIN-STRIPE Saturday!! You're the greatest! Love,Lori PANTS. FELL OFF HANGAR BE­2 NAVY GA'S WANTED. CALL 284· DO YOU HAVE NAVY GA'S/ I NEED 
1 
Boaton Club/Phtlly Club USC Wtcked Excellent Tatlgater. See Julius Ervtng and 
TWEEN MCCANDLESS PARKING LOT 5246(SMC) THEM! MIKE No. 33tt. Teresa, Linda. Katte. This AND LEMANS HALL. PLEASE CALL weekend.WILD TIMESI CAN'T WAIT!
Larry Bird get sloppy on Green Field near 
sen1or bar. Family and tnends welcome.
2n-«n. Go IRISH BEAT U.S.C. Guess who?!? 
TiCKETS 

You won't regret participating 1n th1s 4 NAVY GA'S WANTED. CALL WOZZ 
WANTED: 3 STUD. PITT. TIX. CALL awesome event t773 STEVE8885.
D<>sperately need Penn State game tick· 

Mahatma and Lady Di: The peasants mil)'
ets t::all Bnan at 8795. 

be revolting but your stench liveth on. To the Jokersof4N Sheii.Stacella.Chenal and Pattt Thanks lor the 8 week party 
FOR RENT 

HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY Will trade 2 Pitt GA for 2 USC GA. Call NAVY TIX FOR SALE CALL DAVE AT All friends, past or present. of Bill Carrdeo Let's make tllast. Love.Jules
2845084 Mtke at tt08. t801

NICE FURNISHED HOUSE 277·3604 Come to hts btrthday party on Sat. nile. 
t832t WarnckCall2n·0570fordlr Fora CATHY TILL... Happy Btrthday Kate' 1 bedroom house. large k1tchen. large USC·ND ltx wanted Paytng most. (312) week long of tun 1n one mght. Please Hope you have a great btrthday· I'll be yard area. Cleveland Ad 2 blks E of Unt· 246·4650. WILL TRADE NAVY GA's for PITT GA·s. NEED 2 NAVY G.A.'S BAD CALL TONY "'~OME thtnktng about you. Tell all tn Pgh I say verStty Mall $200 & heat and utthltes Call CALL PAUL or HAMIL at t527 AT t7t4 ...... Hello!' Love.Tnsh 
237·0t56 NALINI MOVE IT OR LOSE IT! (We mtght even tell Tom!) LOVE FROM IRA & HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANN MURPHYI If
Need Non·sludent tiCkets to NO vs USC.

HOUSEMATE FEMALE $t75 MO EX· PARTY you are Italian & from NYC, then lhts t9
x20t3 Need 2 or 4 USC GA'a. Can trede 2 t NAVYSTUTIXFORSALE.Lynne4313

CELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE Call collect. (3t2) 565·5959 or year old ts watltng altt8 Holy Cross You 
x2233 stud. tlx. Call100t or 1072

TO NO, GROCERY STORE. FUR· PORT·A·PARTY PORT·A·PARTY wont be d1sappo1nted Esp 1f your name NISHED 233·608t PORT·A·PARTY isEm1ho. 
, •·~ lo. I 

Sports Briefs 
·The Notre Datne-USC game, to be played tomorrow, is beiong shown live via closed-circuit signal in the ACC arena. All tickets are SS for the showing on a theatre-size screen, and are on sale at ACC Gate 10 and all regular outlets. NCAA regulations prohibit any live television showing ofthe game. -The Observer 
Student basketball tickets are still available. 
They can be obtained from the ticket o_ffice on the second floor of the ACC. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be collecting for the United Way tomorrow morning before the USC game. Look for the volunteers with yellow United Way buttons and United Way buckets. Thi:; is the chance for everyone -stu­dents, family, and alumni -to contribute. -The Observer 
..... 
Friday, October 21, 1983-page 15 
I 
fpr those who ran in the Domer Six­Mile Run, the T-shirts are now in the Non-Varsity Athletic office. They can be picked up beginning this morning. -The Ob­server 
The Century Club has new log cards available to its members. They can be obtained at the Non-Varsity Athletics Office or at the Rockne pool on the bulletin board. Please turn. in your completed cards and pick-up new ones. Also, due to increasing membership, the first newsletter has been delayed to include all the new members. Expect the first issue either right before fall break or right after break. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club invites all ofits past and present players to participate in the Oldtimer's Game, tomorrow at 9:30 am. on Stepan Field. Special appearances will be made by Yogi, McD, B, Bull, Danny D., Mad Dog, Kirby, and Mole. ­
The Observer 
© 1983 Beer Brewed by Miller Brewing Co, Milwaukee, WI 


AND BEFOHE I KNEW IT, THEY DONE ROUNOI:O UP 
MY WIFE AND KIDS 
AND SHOVED 'EM 
INTO THE DARN 
SPACESHIF? 


O'Brien to talk to NDfans 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND -The late Pat 
O'Brien, whose "Win one for the 
Gipper" speech has stired 
moviegoers and television viewers 
since the 1940s, will fire up Notre 
Dame football fans one last time 
tonight. 
A taped message from O'Brien, who died last Saturday at age 83, will be played at a downtown pep rally in South Bend sponsored by the Notre 
Dame Alumni Club ofSt. Joseph Val­ley. 
O'Brien, whose most famous role was that of Notre Dame football coach Knute Rockne in the 1940 film "Knute Rockne, All-American," will exhort the Fighting Irish to beat Southern California in Saturday's game against the Trojans. 
In the Rockne film biography, 
which also starred Ronald Reagan as 
the dying Irish football star George 
Gipp, O'Brien gave an impassioned 
lockerroom speech to his team to 
"_Win one for the Gipper." 
"It's almost like win one for Pat 
now," said Lyn Leone, president of 
the alumni club. 
The audio tape will be played at a 
town pep rally tonight at the Cen­
tury Center. 
In planning a rally big enough to math the tension and excitement of the annual Notre Dame-Southern Cal matchup, Ms. Leone said she began searching for celebrities with Notre Dame connections. 
O'Brien was the obvious choice. 
Although he had been sick and 
could not attend the game and rally, 
he agreed to send an appropriate 
message that will be played at the 
rally, Ms. Leone said. 
A moment of silence for O'Brien 
will be observed before tomorrow's 
kickoff. 
Paul Owens gets new contract • • • 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Paul Owens, 
who relinquished his general 
manager's duties to manage the 
Philadelphia Phillies in mid-season, 
has signed a one-year contract to 
continue as field boss in 1984, the 
team said yesterday. 
Owens' decision was a complete 
turnaround from his earlier state­
ment that he "definitely" would not 
return to the dugout next season. 
"I decided I wanted to come back because we have a chance to repeat what we did this year. I'm confident we will put on as good a show as we did in 1983," Owens said at a press conference. 
So does Tom Lasorda 
LOS ANGELES -Tommy Lasorda, who piloted the young and troubled Los Angeles Dodgers to the National League West title this season, was rewarded yesterday with an un­precedented three-year contract. 
On the heels of what many con­sider his best job in seven seasons of managing the Dodgers, Lasorda became the first manager to be of­fered a multi-year contract by the owning O'Malley family. 
The financial terms of Lasorda's contract were not announced, but it is believed to call for a substantial raise on the S250,000, one-year agreement he worked under this season. 

The Observer Friday, October 21, 1983-page 16 
continuedfrom page 20 

crowd as the champions in their respt·ctive weight classes. Seven of them fou!(ht yesterday, while the eighth was awarded the title he· t·ause his opponent had suffered a hroken nose in winning a semifinal bout. 
The excitement increased with each fight and peaked at the last fight of the day. It was the heavyweight championship which turned into an interesting slugfest hetween law stu· dent Tom Burger and junior Ken Munro. 
Munro had advanced to the finals after receiving a hye in the semi· finals. Burger, a southpaw, showed his strength in the semifinals when he won on a TKO in the second round. 
It did not take long for the two hoxers to forget about protecting themselves as they quickly began hitting each other very hard. Burger was the early aggressor, but it was Munro who was more effective in landing punches. He hit Burger with a good right hand to force the first of six standing eight counts in the fight. Burger continued to press on, however, and landed a combination that got Munro a standing eight count ofhis own. 
The second round was more of the sanw as Burger continued to press ~lunro and Munro continued to fight him off well. Burger forn·d anothcr standing eight count early in the round. hut Munro returnc:d the: favor despite looking like he was about to U>llapse from exhaustion. 
Tht· mattc:r was decidc:d in the last round when Burgt·r consistently landed hard punches on a tired Munro, forcing two more standing eights. Tht· cards of all three judges were clost·, hut Burger was given a unanimous decision. 
The wdterweight contest was an· nounced as the "featured fight" and sophomore: Ed Bornemann and senior Mark St. Amand did not let the crowd down. Both fighters had been vc:ry impressive in the semifinals, battering thc:ir opponents with ac· curate punches. St. Amand had scored a TKO in the third round, while Bornemann pushed his op· ponent around the: ring, doing c:n·rything hut knocking him out. 
The two hoxers came out for the first round using very different styles of hoxing. Bornemann immediatc:ly began stalking the tallc:r St. Amant!. who dc:cidc:d he: would he: hettt-r off moving around and throwing quick combinations. flis strategy worked ;t~ Borrwmann could not get closl· enough to him. St. Amand's excl'l· lent tc:chniquc: and rt·ach advantage kept Bornemann at hay and allowc:d him to win a unanimous decision. 
llnlike the: novice: bouts. the: num· hn of TK< )'s was low. Six of the 1-i fights in the: sc:mis c:ndc:d by TKO. hut only ont· finals hout did. That was the fight between junior Mike Leuer ami senior Dave Gaus. Gaus increased his string of TKO's to two by knocking down an overmatched l.euer twice before putting him through the ropes at I:27 of the first round. It was the only bout that did not last for the entire three rounds. 
The only split decision came in the bout between sophomore Rip Graf and senior Tony Rodriguez. Both boxers had advanced to the finals by winning close decisions and were very evenly matched. Rodriguez had a height and reach disadvantage but was quick and ag· gressive. Grafwas very effective jab­bing and counterpunching in the first round and early in the second round. 
The tide turned late in the second round as Rodriguez, hleeding from the nose, began to land more punches and drive Graf backwards. Be continued to land some good punches in the final round, before Graf started to fight back very well. Graf could not recover on the judges' scorecards, however, as he dropped the decision. 
The lightweight hatrle hetween 
Pat Collins, a freshman, and Steve 
Badyna, a sophomore, was almost as 
close as Grafs and Rodriguez' as 
Badyna took a unanimous decision 
despite very close scores by all three 
judgc:s. 
Both fighters were involved in fairly close semifinal bouts, but those fights did 11<>1 compare with the final which sec-sawed back and forth. In the first round, Collins had problems getting adjusted to the fact that Badyna was lcfthanded. Badyna was able to get his left over Collins' right hand and score effectively. He was also able to block the Collins' punches throughout the entire round. 
Collins seemed to adjust to Badyna In the second round as he defended himself better and landed a number of good punches to Badyna's face. Badyna took the only standing eight count of the bout in the second round. 
Collins continued his pressure early in the last round, but Badyna began to fight back very well. By the end of the fight, he was getting the better ofCollins. This comeback was what gave him the victory. 
Pete Reilly and Tim Dahlen squared off in the finals of the light heavyweight division. Reilly had reached the finals with an im· pressivc show in the semifinals, win· 
by Ned Colletti 

A game-by-game history of one of America's greate~t football rivalries. 
Author Ned Colletti will autograph his latest book 
"Golden Glory· Notre Dame vs. Purdue" 
Saturday, October 22nd 10:30 to 12:00 Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore second floor 
'----------~~·_________.J 
• • . Boxing 
ning on a TKO in the second round. The gangly Dahlen had used his height and reach to an advantage as he won on a split decision. 
Dahlen's height and reach did not give him the advantage that he needed to overcome the persistenc Reilly. Reilly constantly was on the offensive, throwing a lot of punches and landing a number of them. Dah· len improved at the beginning ofthe last two rounds, but Reilly quickly tired him out. By the end ofthe fight, Dahlen was pretty much hanging on to Reilly. Reilly was awarded a unan· imous decision. 
The final two champions were decided on the basis of injuries. Grad student Paul Ngo was awarded the flyweight championship when his opponent broke his ankle earlier in the week. Nevertheless, Ngo did fight yesterday, taking on Dave Simon who lost in the lightweight semifinals. Ngo, who was 20 pounds lighter than Simon, put up a good fight in the exhibition, but Simon was too much for him and won the unanimous decision. 
Middleweight Jim Kelly was awarded the championship when his opponent, sophomore Jeff Pav­lina, broke his nose in his semifinal bout and was unable to compete in the finals. 


Notre Dame vs Purdue 




~ .. 
The Observer Friday, October 21, 1983-page 17 
Crucial Big Ten contest 

Michigan, Iowa have showdown 
Seniors!!! Associated Press needs: great quarterback, good run­average ( 11.16 yards per comple­ning backs, big line, tough defense, tion). He's in double figures. That and outstanding kicking. Most im­means he's throwing the ball up­
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -There is a portant of all, perhaps, Iowa has a field."
Please Remember: ~
I 

definite note of nervousness in Bo master coach in Hayden Fry, who "From a defensive standpoint, that
Departure-2:30a.m. Sunday 
Schembechler's voice this week -has molded all the parts into a solid gives us problems." and for good reason. whole. Fry, of course, is taking all of
Stepan Center ~~ 
Going into Saturday's game, Schembechler's protestations with a
The Michigan coach is trying to get his banged up Wolverines ready which will be televised nationally by grain of salt. His weekly mail con­
Bring Proper Identification! 
Get Psyched! ~ 
tains the same set of statistics that
Cl • 

for tomorrow's game with powerful ABC-TV, the Hawkeyes lead the Big cross his opponent's desk and Fry can see that Michigan leads the Big 
Any Qnestions -.o / , 
Iowa and he isn't sure he has the Ten in passing offense, total offense, 
Call Donna 68•l7 

horses -despite the fact that Michi­and scoring offense. Their quarter­gan is ranked No. 10 and Iowa is back, 6-foot-4, :210-pound junior Ten in just about every defensive
Stella 6141 


category.
12th in this week's poll. Chuck Long, ranks No. 2 in the na­
tion in passing efficiency. Long has The Wolverines have won their Michigan is 5-1 for the season and last two games on shutouts.
passed for more than 200 yards in 4-0 in the Big Ten while the Haw­"Michigan presents more than
his last seven successive games keyes are 5-1 and 3-1. dating back to last season's Peach just a challenge," Fry said. "It's going
~·••••••••••••••coa~a~•••••••••••••••1 
Schembechler believes those Bowl victory over Tennessee. to take a super effort for us to be in records are misleading, however, "They throw a lot," Schembechler this ballgame. We're a good football
This Weekend••• 
because Iowa has played a much noted. "The problem, for us, is that team, but we still have a lot ofareas FORGET J'-BOUT BARS tougher schedule than Michigan; the Long has really come along. He's we're not too good in." Ha t wkeyes already boast triumphs good, very good. And he's got a good "It seems like Michigan has theGO TO "ClASS" over Penn State and Ohio State. arm. He can really whip that ball same size, the same speed, the same from sideline to sideline." great team, year in and year out."
"This will give us a good idea what
(1Opm -Midnight Fri. & Sat.) 

Long, who leads the Big Ten in to­The game, which is Michigan's
kind of team we've got," Schem­tal offense, has completed 88 of 1 51 homecoming, also is something of a
bechler said. "The last three weeks,
LATEN'IGHT 

pass attempts for 1,685 yards and "must win" situation for Iowa, since
we haven't been in a dogfight. This is 

eight touchdowns with only three it's unlikely a team can lose two con­
HAPPY HOUR the first contending team we've 

interceptions. ference games and still expect to gofaced." I' 
Stadeat Special• with (:oapoa "Iowa throw.s well," Schem­to the Rose Bowl. Indeed, the Hawkeyes appear to 
bechler said. "The difference is, they Kickoff is scheduled for 12:30 
have all the tools a title contender

Cheese Fondue •• p.m. EDT. 
BEGINNER INTERMEDIATE 
SKI-BOOT-BINDING SALE 
I For Two ••••.••••. $4.95 I t I 
I

Well Drinks••••••. $1.00 I 
I 
I 
I 
I

•••••••••·-----~coapoo-.-,••••••••••-•••• 

McC:artby's 
ES1r.1983 

Moo: Monday Night Football ­Pitchers $2 during game 
N.D.

Tues: Two for One Dr~tft Dome Two drafts . 7 5 
NO Ave. 

Wed: Talent and Ladi1~s Nite ­
Happy Hourprices to ladies 
Thurs: Cheers Nite ­
Hill St.

.25 draftB-IOPM 
*McCarthy's

Fri.: Pre-Game Nite ­
wake up the echoes with us! 
Sat: Sat. Morning Confusion ­
Irish Omelets $2.50; draft 7AM .10 
up a dime every hour till noon 
Sat. Afternoon Pre-G arne Wa.rm-~ ~ ~ 1 , $2.00 pitchers 2-8 
Uncle Vinnie Says: 
"Let's go out and win 410 N. Hill Mon-Tburs 11:00-1:00 
oneforPatO'Brien" Fri 11:00-2:00 
Full line ofPub Grnb served daily Sat 7:00AM-2:00AM 
~ 
FREE PIZZA ~ aay •lze PizzaLight 
"2 Gr-t Pizza• for 1 Low Price" 
PollahPrince Plueria 
:rniiiJ!IO 
ap.:l2-30&1 
SKIS 
\\\\ELAN qo3 :> 
ELAN 903 Retail $185.00 Sale $111.00 Save 40°/o 
5285 
':> 
K2 528S Retail $225.00 Sale $169.00 Save 25°/o 
-OLIN 730 }> 
OLIN 730 Retail S245.00 Sale $196.00 Sale 20°/o-
BINDINGS 

.iL 
" 
LOOK 19RS7 Retail $ 79.95 Sale $48.00 Save 40°/o 
/! 
7 ~ 
SALOMON 637 Retail $1 05.00 Sale $79.00 Save 
rr~ 

TUROLLA 380D Retail $135.00 Sale $1 08.00 
Save 20°/o 

put the ball upfield. Check Long's 
BOOTS 

/:-~ 
I 
~ 

ALPINA VENUS Retail $100.00 Sale $60.00 Save 40°/o 
·<~;
~~-'--= ~~ 

NORDICA PULSAR Retail $1 00.00 Sale $75.00 
Sav:~, 25% 
NORDICA GALAXY Retail $140.00 Sale $112.00 
Save 20o;0 
~-F-REEPE11111P~S~I!IIIIo.. 
16 oz. NR bottle. while •appUe• la•t 
4 Free Pepsi's 
with aay regular meaa 17"Pizza S 
3 Free Pepsi's i 
with aay regular meaa 111 14"Pizza 
2 Free Pepsi's 
with aay regular meaa 12"Pizza 

SATURDAY ONLY: BE PROFESSIONALLY FIT IN A SKI-THOTIC FROM 
NORDICA. THE SKI-THOTIC PLACES YOUR FEET IN A NATURAL POSITION & ELIMINATES PRONATION. THE BEST FIT FOR YOUR SKI BOOTS FOR ONLY $25.00. SATURDAY ONLV. ELKHART STORE 
SALE.~STARTS 


ENDS OCT. 30
FRIDAY OCT. 22 

TRACING C:OLVIPANY 
16533 Clr.vtol,tnrl Roatl I Grd!lQPr, lndrana 46!:130 t 277 11 :n 
~-------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, October 21, 1983-page 18 
Plays both offense and defense 

Weekend Action 
Weinle adds name to select group 
Associated Press 

SOOTH BEND -Offensive guard Jerry Weinle joined some select company during the latest Irish tri­umph, and few fans were aware of the moment 
Late in the 42-0 Notre Dame vic­tory over Army on Saturday, the senior came running off the field af­ter Notre Dame's only turnover. As he neared the sideline, he noticed the coaching motioning him back on the field -as the nose tackle for the defense. 
That's how Weinle became the first Notn: Dame player since All­American Dave Casper to play on both sides of the line of scrimmage during a game. Casper, who gained his honors as a tight end on the 1973 national championship team, was an offensive tackle in 1972 and was pressed into action at both split end and ddensive tackle against Michi­gan Statt·. 
The fans in Giants Stadium didn't realize what was taking place, but the recognition didn't go unnoticed 
• • . Soccer 

continuedfrom page 20 
only to Wake Forest. This year's trip figures to be just as successful. 
Aiding tht· Irish in the upcoming road trip will be the ever improving play of freshman Pat Szanto. The Irish striker played very well this past Sunday in the win over Chicago, scorin!o: one goal, setting up many other opportunities, and, time and time again, showing great speed in streaking past defenders. 
"Pat could be the bt·st forward to play at Notre Dame by the time he's through," Hunter says. "He need's to be t a little tougher. however. Hope­fully he will attain that toughness through the winter and spring workouts." 
Tht· Irish return home to close out their season against Grace College on October I on Alumni Field. 
McCumber takes early golf lead 
Associated Press 
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. -Mark McCumber completed an 8-undcr­par 64 as darkness was approaching and established a two-stroke lead yestt·rday in the first round of the S400,000 Walt Disney World Golf Classic. 
McCumbt·r. winner of the Wes­tern Open earlier this season, was the last man to finish at the 6,6'i"i­yard But·na Vista course, one of thrn· courses used for the first three rounds of the event at this sprawling resort n·nter. All three courses have a par of72. 
His 32 over the front nine was slowt·d by a heavy shower. lie covert·d tht• back nine in the same figure, did nm make a bogey, and did not have a 'i on his card. 
Lanny Wadkins, still riding a high from his Ryder Cup heroics, topped ;a big group at 66. 
Wadkins, whose great comeback last Sunday provided the key to the Americans' Ryder Cup victory over Europe, tt•elcd off ·a string of six threes in the first seven holes he played at the Buena Vista course. lie opent·d the day's play w.ith a 4-wood second shot that set up a 3-foot putt 
for an eagle. 
lie wa.~ tied with Doug Tewell, 

Mo~sllmili~mdCm~~mJim 
·Nc.:.lt:o.r~Lul.li Van: .Ila.rc.. , ••••••••• ':' 
... · '.·:.• :.\1.~,' ...",'~.'.\\,',',"•'•'•'•'•'•'•~•'-·-··-·-----·. 
on Monday when game awards were handed out. The former standout at Cincinnati's LaSalle High School received a game ball. 
Weinle says he doesn't really care where the coaching staffuses him. 
"It really doesn't matter a heckuva lot," says the 6-foot-2, 240-pound Weinle, who has been prepared to play both ways since the Colorado game three weeks ago. "It's nothing special. I'm just doing it for the good of the team. I'm just happy to be needed, to be a part of the team. But I really would like to be at one set position for a whole week." 
Weinle is getting his wish this week -somewhat. With nose tackle Jon Autry hobbling on a nag­ging sprained ankle, Weinle, who was moved to the offensive line during the preseason because of in­juries, is back at his old hunting grounds. 
That's where he is needed. The 
Irish  arc  going  up against  an  All­ 
American  center  tomorrow  in  
Southern Cal's Tony Slaton.  

It hurts me somewhat switching back and forth," continues Weinle, who started at guard this year at 
Miami when Tim Scannell was out 
with a knee injury. "Offensively, I 
need all the reps I can get. My tech­
nique needs work." 
Weinle doesn't have those 
problems defensively, however. 
Line coach Jay Robertson always 
has rated Weinle highly for his 
technical play. 
"I've always taken pride in not 
making the mental mistakes," adds 
Weinle, who played extensively at 
flip tackle last year against Penn State and Air Force when Mike Gann injured his knee. "I get upset with myself when I make a mental mistake. If I make a mistake that is physical, it doesn't bother me as much." 
Weinle has encountered few problems on the field as he has off it trying to keep his weight up. He has added a great deal of upper-body strength since coming to Notre Dame but only 20 pounds. 
"It's very difficult with the schedule I have," says Weinle, a mechanical engineering major. "My weight is the biggest hurdle I have." 
'"'t
Open a noon Afu,.. 11uon BBQ" BBQ Rib, Tips $3.50 Polish Sauage $1.75 
-
Drafts .......50¢ 
All-You-Can-Eat Brunch 
On Sundays,.it's Brunch at the Marriott 
Every Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 2:30p.m., enjoy Brunch at the Marriott. A stupendous buffet of omelettes, waffles, and bagels, plus seafood, salads, cheeses, fruits, assorted hot entrees and vegetables. 


Linway Shopping Plaza Goshen 534-2863 Daily 10-9 Sun 12-5 
Elkhart 
Thp your meal off with an array 
of mouth-watering desserts. Th add to your pleasure, there's live entertainment too_ All for $9.95 for adults, $4.95 for children under 12. 
For reservations, please call ­
BOTTOMLESS 
glass of Champagne served 12:30 -2:30 p.m. lno additional charge) 
234-2000 
SOUTH BEND ~QrrJOtf HOTEL 
12:1 N_ St. ~oseph Street, South Bend. Indiana 46601 

TONIGHT  TOMORROW  
soccer  rugby  
vs. Belmont Abbey  Oldtimers' Game  
8p.m.  9:30a.m.  
Cartier Field  Stepan Field  
N D volleyball  football  
vs. St. Xavier  vs. Southern Cal  
8:30p.m.  1:30 p.m.  
ACC Auxiliary Gym  Notre Dame Stadium  


Under New Management! 
G~t \Ut'LL 
Chinese Arnericaa Restalrallt I Cocktail Lounge 
•BlAND NEW CHEF •BRAND NEW STYLE 
AUTHENTIC SZECHAUN AND HUNAN TASTE 
LUNCH SPECIAL 
Any Combination Plate 
for only 
Includes rice, soupegg roll 
fried rice, entree 
$295 
and hot tea 

272-7376 130 Dixie Way South, South Bend (Roseland) (Next to Randall's Inn) 
01'017 DAn AwttX 

•­
·v 
University Commons 6305 St. Rd. 23 272-7565 Daily 10-9 ~t,Jn ~2-5:30 
University Park Mall 

·.4~·..._• .. ·; ......·.,. ,.. ':..,...__ , , . 
Friday, October 21, 1983-page 19
Weekend 
Bloom CounLty 

C£SSE:f.... 
•'THE-Ft?UGe " FOR /8'/ WAWi IJAY. Plt 1HROIKJH 1 
'RAY CHARL£5" FOR R~" PAY 
"CJCF l£FW.R!7" FOR f-liAVY M€7Al.. flAY ... ANfl, fF COV/?.51:,, 'J€-f<FY ZtiOifiefJ"TrR ANP HIS AU3UQU€RQV€ FPirBOYS." 

oor A{..{.. OUR 
/· 


Fate 
THAT MEANS H£ 'S MAKII'Iy

THE S t COACH SA tO 
FUN OF ALL OF US. 'CAUSE

IH~T AU. NOTR£. DAME 
INflf)£ EVERt C(R£/IT NO

liAS C.OT IS II 40LD£N 
DoME t 
PERSON 6 A u TTLE TIN'/ 
G,OLDEN D0/1£.1 

Mellish 
~·oMMA loiOULbN'T IT
1 
BE Nitl If lolf UAD 
E~OUGH B~fAD SO W£ NOW CHILO, 
CIIULO EAr TIL IJt EV!H DAy CANT 
WIS FULL. •wsr tE ll~f CHmr...,-K LIKE AT CHRISTN~sl 
....... I ---.; 
~ 


The Daily Crossword 

© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 10/21/83 
NOW PERSONAU-Y, 
I'M voo excrrw 
A80UT7HIIT c..A5L UH... 1Htrr... UfL. 
WJ.IM'5 WROt-h? 

So ToMORKOW Pur YOUR 
liANDS T04£THER OW:/? 'fOUl? HEADS AND LOOK Ul(£ Got.J)fN DOMES ' LEr tr SHINE IN THEIR FAC£SII 
-~~ (.~ 
' 

WE G015 TO W~t~ HA~D FO~ OUR 
FooD AND THANK TH£ (;COO !DO FO~ WHAT HE'S GIVEN US. AIN'T NOrHI/J' F~ff IN THIS 1-iWO,CHILD. lETS JUIT H H~"Y 
Wf'S ~r SOM! ~~AD AND porAroiS ON THf TABLE... :.;
'-... .,. ,,~ 
ACROSS 24 Kindof 1 Lovein strike Italy 27 Close 6 High-speed 28 Author 
word James 10 Per 29 Denomina· 14 Digest of tlon 
laws 30 Augment 
15 Nested 33 Happy-go­lacquered lucky boxes fellow 
16 River in 38 Coastal Ireland bird 17 Unbeliev­39 Assist able 40 Irish Free 20 Advanta· State geous 41 Fortitude 21 Badgerlike 42 Snatched 
animal 45 Jargon 22 Solemnities 48 Titan 23 Court cases 49 Reserved 
Thurday's Solution 

Berke Breathed 

Photius 
Dave & Dave 
AND IT~ WITH UfAT P~IPE. THAT l PAUlNT, liN •t~ALP IF OII~ICIA OATS I,,., llltL (X· PI!HSI! PAID T~IP '1'1 FtOIIIfl B StoTT ''t."MNt.MDUI'f 11 SLOAN WHO DtWIIIfP orU lfO LIS O" CAP~ U81fut IN _,,., fl" 
/ D~YS. 

Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -Seminar, 'Effective Interactions and Elementary Excitations in the Electron and Helium Liquids,' Prof David Pines, University ofIl­linois, Urbana-Champaign, Room 401, Nieuwland Science Hall 

•3:30 
p.m.-Philosophy Colloquium, 'The Cal­vinist and the Catholic: A Dialogue of Faith and Reason,' Prof. Gary Gutting, Notre Dame, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, 'Photochemistry and Photocalorimetry of some Carbonyl Complexes,' Prof. Arthur W. Adamson, Room 123, Nieuwland Science Hall 

•5:1 
5 p.m. -Mass, Commemorating the Centen­nial of the Laetare Medal, Celebrated by Father Hesburgh, Homily by Father Blantz, Sacred Heart Church 

•7,10 
p.m. -Film, 'The Long Gray Line,' Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by the Notre Dame Film Society 

•8 
p.m. -Soccer, Notre Dame Men vs. Belmont Abbey College, Cartier Field 


Saturday, Oct. 22 
•8 
a.m. · 3:30p.m. -Test, Graduate Management Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium 

•l
:30 p.m. -Football, Notre Dame vs. USC, Notre Dame Stadium 


Sunday, Oct. 23 Midsemester Break Begins 
TV Tonight ­
7:30p.m. 16 Jennifer Slept Here 28 Webster 34 Wall Street Week 
8p.m. 16 Manimal 22 Dallas 28 Lottery 34 Prime Rate 
8:30p.m. 34 Moneymakers II 
9p.m. 16 For Love and Honor 22 Falcon Crest 28 Matt Houston 34 Great Railway Journeys 
Far Side ·-, 

"So , when the bank doors open, we .. Louie1 You jerk! ... Yol•r hal brim is up!" 
50 Roused to action 
54 Part of an anserine adage 
56 Theater 
acronym 57 Not on time 58 He ran up 
a clock 59 Headland 60 Ottoman 
rulers 61 Moslem VIP 
DOWN 1 NewTesta­
ment book 2 Debatable 3 Olfactory 
activator 4 Looked at 5 Not native 6 Miniature 7 Cons 8 Gator's 
friend 
9 Mischief 10 Necessitate 11 Blood 
vessel 12 Unkind 13 Cads 18 Mountains 
in Greece 19 Printing mistakes 23 Cal., for ) one 
24 Carryon, as a war 25 Russian 
prince 26 Author Uris 27 Likesome 
wines 29 Defeat, In bridge 30 Hit the 
ground 31 Extreme 32 Feat 34 Duty 35 Wading 
bird 36 Pavarotti milieu 
37 Gas station adjunct, usually 
41 -gold 42 Hopes 43 Deserve 44 Mystery 45 Godless 
one 46 Without others 47 Blowsa 
horn 
48 J. Paul­50 Hillside 
in Scotland 51 Rake 52 Being 53 Forest 
creature 55 Ancient 


CHAUTAUQUA 
presents 

********HEAVYMETAL******** 
Tuesday November 1 7,9,11 PM Admission $1.00 


The Obscrvtt/Paul Cifardli 
Rich Herdegen ( 18) and his teammates on Rich will try to get back on the winning track tonight Hunter's soccer team gave nationalpowerAkron when Belmont Abbey visits Cartier at 8 p.m. For a tough time on Wednesday but lost, 2-1. They more, seeAI Gnoza's story at right. 
Novice tournament 
Eight boxers win championships 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports t:ditor 
The lkngal Bouts will not be fought until March, but, yesterday, we may have seen a preview of the Bl·ngals a..o; the six-week novice boxing program came to a close with its annual tournament. If the 
main tournament comes close to President Angelo Perino, a two-time matching the competitiveness of defending Bengals champion. "It's this year's novice tournament, then about the same number of boxers there should be some interesting that we had la..<;t year, but it was bouts. down from the previous years. The 
"I would have to say that this is the quality was much better, though." best novice program in the four Eight boxers emerged from the years that I've been associated with 
See BOXING, page 16 
the program," said Boxing Club 

Soccer team drops tough game to Akron 
ByALGNOZA 
Sports Writer 

When the Notre Dame soccer 
team played Akron last fall, the visit­
ing Zips vanquished the Irish by a 
Hopes weren't too high for an Irish upset this year either, what with Akron sporting a No. 10 nation­al ranking, and having tied Indiana two weeks after the Hoosiers shut out the Irish, 4-0. Please pardon the Zips for salivating. 
It figured to be a messy one, but it turned out to be a sticky one -for Akron that is. The favorites had to rally from a 1-0 deficit to beat the ornery Irish 2-1 on Wednesday, handing the visitors only their fourth loss of the year against I 4 wins. 
It was just three and a halfminutes into the game when Steve Chang and Richard Herdegen got together and set up Eric Evans with Notre Dame's first and only goal ofthe afternoon. It put the Irish ahead 1-0 and rudely woke up the complacent hosts. 
The Zips tied the score at 22:45 on a volley shot from ten yards out. Eight minutes later Akron notched the game winner on free kick th~t beat Notre Dame goalie Mark Steranka to the upper right comer of the net. 
"They were beautiful plays that beat us," conceded Notre Dame mentor Rich Hunter. "It wa..'> quite an important game." 
"They didn't think we could stop their check backs." Indiana had severely hurt Notre Dame with check backs, a maneuver where the 
offensive player turns his back to the defense to shield the ball and set up passes. "Our midficlders stopped the checks and the fullbacks tackled very hard." 
' "Mark (goalie Steranka) cut off all the balls in the penalty area," con­tinued Hunter. "He came out about seven or eight times to cut off their throw ins." 
The Irish will make a curtain call tonight at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field, as they host Belmont Abbey College in what the visitors from North Carolina hope will be a chance to 
at venge a 1982 loss to the Irish. Oon't count on it. As if a twdve-hour bus ride won't hurt their legs enough, the Abbians should find it hard to run on Astroturf for a full ninety minutes. 
At sunrise to-morrow morning, the Irish will board a bus headed cast for fall break -well, not exactly "break." That is, unkss you call Wilkes Barre, Penn., and Monmouth, N.j., scintillating vacation spots. They may not have excitement, but they do have soccer teams and that's what will concern the Irish, at least until friday when Hunter is letting the boys hit the Big Apple. That's New York for all you midwesterners. 
The Irish will go against Wilkes College in a Sunday afternoon game, Monmouth College in a Tuesday night game, and Stockton State in a Thursday afternoon game. 
Last year, the Irish went south for their annual road trip, beating Ken­tucky, Belmont Abbey, and North Carolina-Greensboro, while losing 
See SOCCER, page 18 

What's happening over fall break? I
•
' 
i• 
FOOTBALL 
vs. Southern Cal tomorrow 
1:30 
p.m. Notre Dame Stadium 

vs. Navy Sat., Oct. 29 1:30 

1:30 
p.m. Notre Dame Stadium 


SOCCER 
vs. Belmont Abbey tonight Bp.m. Cartier Field 
I I I 
at Wilkes College Sun., Oct. 23 
at Monmouth College Tues., Oct. 25 
at Stockton State Thurs., Oct. 27 
... ..._.•,___ ----... -·-... -~~~·::.:....,.--... -~~'!'--~~'"'...IJ>o"' 
You may have break, but your teams don't 
FIELD HOCKEY 
at Loyola-Baltimore Sun., Oct. 23 
at Johns Hopkins Mon., Oct. 24 
at Maryland-Baltimore County Tues., Oct. 25 
at St. Joseph's (Pa.) Thurs., Oct. 27 
vs. Indiana State Sat., Oct. 29 9a.m. field east of ACC 
......~~·-..--··. w•-tstt:ezarcr-.. ~~.. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

vs. St. Xavier of Chicago tonight 8:30p.m. ACC Auxiliary Gym 
at Loyola-Chicago Tues., Oct. 25 7p.m. 
at St. Louis Wed., Oct. 26 6p.m. 
vs. Valparaiso Sat., Oct. 29 
10:30 a.m. ACC Auxiliary Gym 

•I 
'~ 
~ 
~ SMC VOLLEYBALL i ~ 
at Taylor University 

tonight 'i 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~
at Manchester 

~
Tues., Oct. 25 

i 
at NAIA Pre-tournament 

I 
(Goshen College) 

J 
Sat., Oct. 29 ' f 
l 
', ! 
~ ~ 
CROSS COUNTRY 

I 
at Central Collegiates •l 
I ~
Normal, Ill. ' 
tomorrow i 
at MCC Championships 

I
, 
a
Indianapolis, Ind. 

~
Sat., Oct. 29 

J 
~ 
~ 
' 
I: ,, 
~ ,, 








