Economy Symposium -page 5 
St. Joseph food supervisor questions need for pizza ban 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
andJEFF HARRINGTON 
SeniorStaffReporters 

The food supervisor for the St. joseph County area said yesterday that most of the violations listed in the Environmental Health and Safety office's report on dormitory food sales would not merit immediate shutdown of the student-operated businesses. 
john Deitchly, the county health department's food supervisor, said the violations listed under a sample dormitory (Pangborn Hall) "were not really serious and would not re­quire a shutdown." 
He said the situation "would need a letter or verbal contact with whoever is in charge of the dor­
mitory  to  tell  them  to  keep  the  
equipment  clean  and  keep  the  
equipment covered."  

Environmental Health and Safety Specialist Michael McCauslin, who inspected the food sales last month and compiled the report, recom­mended "requiring all food sales to be limited to pre-packaged food," in a Nov. 15 letter to Father John Van Wolvlear, vice president of Student Affairs. 
A policy change is expected from Van Wolvlear before the end of the semester. Commenting on the change, Van Wolvlear said, "I suspect that some food items (such as hot dogs) will be allowed, but some that require special equip­ment, such as pizza ovens, will not." 
Some of the violations in the report, however, would warrant shutdown if they were not cor­rected immediately, Deitchley said. Insect and rodeot infestation, listed in McCauslin's report as a violation in Fisher, Flanner, Stanford and Sorin halls' food sales, would cause a county health inspector to close down the food-preparing establish­ment "unless the violation were cor­rected immediately," Deitchley noted. 
McCauslin's report found '.'mouse infestation" in Fisher and Sorin halls' food sales, "rodent infestation" in Flanner Hall's food sales, and "ant and roach infestation" in Stanford Hall's food sales. 
Deitchley added, "Whatever we do in the county is also statewide. Everybody in the state of Indiana would have to conform with the same regulations." However, he noted, "The dorms are not under our jurisdiction. They're done through Bob Zerr (Director of En­vironmental Health and Safety)." 
Zerr declined comment on the report's results, and said McCauslin would not be available for comment on the issue until Monday. McCaus­lin could not be reached at his home. 
While the dormitory's food sales are not under the jurisdiction ofthe county health office, Deitchley said he ooes inspect the North and South Dining halls, the ACC and Stadium concessions, the Huddle and the Deli in LaFortune Student Center, the ~enuJr and Alumni Club, the Uni­versity Club and the Morris Inn four times a year. 
Deitchley said while the viola­tions listed in a county health department report remain on the business's record, a specified amount of time is given to correct the violations. "The amount oftime would vary with the case," he added. 
Sorin Food Sales Manager Larry Nardolillo said that most of Sorin's violations listed in the report al­ready have been corrected. "We've got two new ovens and cleaned the microwave," he said. "Although we have mice throughout the dorm, we've never seen a mouse in the food sales area all year .... The Uni­versity renovated the entire base­ment of Sorin, including the foodsales, to University specifica­
tions." 

Mike Levchuck, Grace Food Sales 
Manager, said that 85 percent of the 
violations were corrected in a 24-Christmas lights in Alumni are dimmed by a broken window­
hour period after the inspection. one ofthe vestiges ofTuesday's snowballfight. 
Snow fight causes injuries, damage 
ByAMY STEPHAN 
Copy Editor 

Three students were hospitalized and approximately S 1,000-52,000 in damages were caused by Tuesday night's campus-wide snowball fight, according toJames Roemer, dean of students. 

Letter itemizes health violations 
By DAN MCCULLOUGH andJEFF HARRINGTON 
SeniorStaffReporters 
A copy of a letter outlining the violations in each dormitory's food sales as coq~piled by Environmental Health and Safety Specialist Michael McCauslin has been obtained by The Obsen1er. 

The letter was sent by McCauslin to Father John Van Wolvlear, vice president for Student Affairs. and copies of the letter were distributed to dorm rectors. 
McCauslin could not be reached 

to  elaborate  on  the  extent  and  
specifics of the viol ations.  
Cavanaugh  Hall  Food Sales  was  

the only dorm operation not men­tioned in the report. 
The hall-by-hall breakdown of the health and safety violations is as fol­lows: 
Pangborn Hall 

• 
Microwave oven filthy 


• 
Hot dog cooker/bun steamer filthy, and a broken, unsafe electrical switch on the unit 

• 
Interior ofcooler filthy 


• 
Candy contaminated with food spills and liquid waste in the cooler 

• 
Spoiled hot dogs in the refrigerator 


• 
Commercial-style Bakers Pride piz­za oven extremely filthy with large cheese buildups, burned cheese, creating a fire hazard and also lack­ing appropriate and required ven­tilation 

• 
Blender filthy 

• 
Food unprotected from potential airborne contamination 



(uncovered) 
Fisher Hall 

• 
Storing buns on the floor of the custodial room under many chemi­cals and cleaning compounds, creat­ing a potential contamination problem 

• 
The small warming-style ovens ex­tremely filthy 

• 
Dirty utensils everywhere 

• 
Reuse ofsingle service utensils 

• 
Freezer very dirty 

• 
Mouse infestation 


• 
Garbage, food waste, and waste paper products scattered through­out the floor area 

• 
Generally, a very dirty, unsanitary area 


Dillon Hall 

• 
Pizza ovens located on a combus­tible surface 

• 
Pizz a ovens very filthy 


• 
One pizza oven located below a sewer line 

• 
Popcorn maker filthy 

• 
Uncovered food in coolers 

• 
Buns being stored on floor 

• 
Coolers filthy 


• 
Improper electrical connection for cooler 


Alumni Hall 
• Carpet on floor filthy 

Pepsi cooler interior drain plugged, creating a water, mold, and waste buildup in the cooler 
• 
Cardboard sheeting used in the microwave oven creating a fire hazard 

• 
Commercial-style Bakers Pride piz­za oven absolutely deplorable, with 


burned cheese covering the interior and exterior, and lacking ap­propriate ventilation 
• 
Small broiler oven absolutely deplorable, with a tremendous burned food accumulation and the wall area behind the broiler oven scorched 

• 
Buns being stored on floor 


• 
General sanitation terrible, food waste and dirt all over 


Carroll Hall 

• 
Microwave filthy 

• 
Pizza cooker filthy 


• 
Interior refrigeration unit filthy and in need ofdefrosting 

• 
Interior of reach-in cooler filthy with a tremendous build-up of mold and bacteria 


Lyons Hall 

• Generally, a small and limited operation in fairly good condition 
Morrissey Hall 

• 
Buns on the floor 

• 
Refrigerator dirty 

• 
Both pizza ovens very dirty 

• 
Pipe insulation falling down 


• 
Small exhaust fan grill dust-laden and filthy 

• 
Either spoiled ketchup or im­proper reuse ofketchup container 


Howard Hall 

• 
Microwave dirty 


• 
Interior ofthe reach-in cooler dirty with a large water and mold buildup on the floor of this unit 

• 
Overall, fair sanitary condition 



see HEALTH, page 7 

Three students were treated at St. Joseph's Medical Center Tuesday night, said Patricia Brubaker, assis­tant head nurse at the hospital. Chris Hutchins and Phil Lombardo of Cavanaugh, and Kevin Stark of Dil­lon, received stitches for injuries sustained during the fight. 
Roemer listed the damages to the 

various dorms as follows: six screens 
and nine windows were broken in 
Cavanaugh; seven windows, includ­
ing a bay window with a Christmas 
display, were broken in Alumni; nine 
windows were broken in Dillon, and 
the storm window protecting the 
stained glass window in Dillon's 
chapel was severely damaged; and 
one window was broken in Zahm. 
''It looks as though there were rocks in some snowballs," said Brother Edward Hagus, assistant rec­tor of Dillon. He noted that some snowballs had enough momentum to break second story windows and screens. 
Roemer said the University -and indirectly the students -will have to pay for repairs. "It just forces the costs up a little," he said. 
In addition to the three reported injuries, numerous students repor­tedly suffered black eyes and other minor injuries. All three of the stu­dents receiving stitches were hit by snowballs and at one time were in­volved in the fight. No one was reported injun:d by glass from broken windows. 
"This isn't just an innocent prank," said Roemer. "You can injure a person for the rest of his life." He noted shattered glass from a brokt.n window could easily catch a person unaware and seriously damage his face and eyes. 
see SNOW, page 7 


Priest/paratrooper set to speak at Mass 
Special to The Observer 

Monsignor Francis Sampson, a paratrooper who participated in the Normandy invasion and in jumps in Korea, will deliver the tri­military Mass Sunday at 2 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
Arecipient of 1 7 military awards and decorations -including the Distinguished Service Cross and the Purple Heart -Sampson graduated from Notre Dame in 1937. Students and faculty, as well as ROTC cadets, are invited to attend the Mass. 
After training at Camp Barkley and Fort Benning, Georgia, Sampson went to England in 1944 to jump with the 101st Airborne Division on D-Day, June 6. He was captured by the Germans but managed to escape. Later in the invasion, Sampson volunteered to stay with 14 wounded men as the Americans pulled back from coun­terattacking Germans. 
Sampson made another jump in the war, landing in Belgium in 
December 1944. Captured by the Germans near Bastogne, Belgium, 
he chose to remain in the enlisted men's prison, rather than being 
sent to an officers' prison. 

During the Korean War, Sampson jumped with the 187th Air­
borne Infantry Regiment in an effort to rescue American POWs. 
He has served as a chaplain in numerous regiments and divisions in the United States and Europe. In 1971, Sampson retired from the Army with the rank of Major General. He is pastor of Saint Mary's Catholic Church in Shenandoah, Iowa. 
·. 

The Observer Friday, December 9, 1983-page 2 


In: Brie£ 

Ticket lotteries will be handled differently in the future, according to Dave Drouillard. Student Union director. "The • Billy Jod tkkct lottery could have been handled in a bettet way," Drouillard said. "It was done in a way that maximized problems and minimizt·d benefits. Next time we will give out index cards on which ~rmknts can write thdr names and ID numbers. These will then he put in a pool so that the I D's arc not tied up. Students will be able to pick up and pay for their ticket.~ at their leisure. The BillyJoel ticket lottery was very inefficient. There is no excuse for having students standing out in the cold for three hours." The Student Union gave 30 I D's which had been left at the lottery to the Registrar's office. Lori Butchko of the Registrar's office said only two I D's have not been claimed. Saint Mary's students who have still not recovered their ID's can pick tht·m up at the Student Union office. -The Observer 
Thomas Merton, the Trappist monk known for his books and articles on prayer, solitude and social action, is the feature of a conference tomorrow at Saint Mary's Little Theatre. The con­ft·rt·nce, titled. "Thomas Merton I c; Years Later: The Difference He Makes," will bring together Merton ~cholars from around the nation including Victor A. Kramer, English prfessor at Georgia State Univer­sity; Lawrence S. Cunningham, religion professor at Florida State I lnivt·rsity; Paul [)inter, campus minister at Columbia University; and Sistt·r Elena ~alits, professor of rdigious studies at Saint Mary's.· l'he conti:rence will also feature tht: film, "The Last Day of Thomas Mt·rton," filmt·d only hours before Merton died in Bangkok, 
Thailand, on Ike I 0, I9!H. Tht· film will bt· shown at 7 30 p.m. in the Chamdt·on Room of the Haggar College Center. Registration for the conference hegins at 9 00 a.m. All students, faculty, and staff mcmht·rs at Saint :\hry's and Notre Dame will he admitted free. 
nw Ohsen•er 
The State Departlnent. ottng "significant 
progrt·ss" in Argentina's human rights situation, announced yester­day that country has met congressional requirements for a resump­tion of Amnican military assistance. The announcement by department spokesman Alan Romberg came two days hdore Argen­tina's formal return to constitutional rule with the inauguration of President-dt'l't Raul Alfonsin. Vice President George Bush will head tht· American ddegation to tht· inauguration. Legislation dating back 10 tht· Carter administration harred t:.S. security aid to Argentina unlt·ss the Statt· l>t-partmt·nt,was ahlc to certify an improvement in hnman rights perfi1rmann· and in other areas. T:1e legislation was prompted hy widespread abuses hy Argentina's military government in its so-callt-d "dirty war" against leftists. Thous:mds of Argentines disappeared at that time and remain unaccountt·d for. Romberg said tht· llnitnl States will t:tke into account its desire to maintain a power balance in nmsidering any requests for arms from Argentina. Argentina has a territorial disputt· with Chile anti its conflict with Crt·at Britain over-the: Falklands islands remains unresolved 18 months after the two countries Y.'l'nt to war over the issue. -AP 
Leaders of Eastem Airlines' pilots anti mac­
hinists union~ today approved a 5360 million employee bailout plan that union and management hope: will solve the carrier's financial woes. There: wt•rt· reports that Eastern's flight attends would sign the agreement today. The one-yt·ar plan would give Eastern employees coatrol of 2'; pt·rccnt of Eastcrn's common stock and four seats on the board of directors in exchange for divening 18 percent to 22 percent of their pay into a stock. invcstment program. The unions also agreed to cooperate with management on new work conces­sions, machinists union president Charles Bryan announced. Managt·ment and labor leaders also will work together to revise the company's annual husiness plans and restructure its finances, Bryan said, adding that tht: unions would bc consulted on new equipment purchast·~. -AP 

Of Interest . 
Santa Claus is coming to NO Monday. Anyone 
intt·rt·stt·d in having his/her picture taken with Santa can do so at LaFortune 3-'; Monday afternoon and at St. Mary's Haggar College Centt·r Monday night from 6-8. Tht· event is heing sponsored by AISEC. a ~tudt·nt-run organization that deals with finding interna­tional internships on an exchange format. -The Ohsen•er 
A Spanish Mass for the Feast ofOur Lady ofGuadalupe will take place Sunday, Dec I I, at I I a.m. in the Farley IIall Chapel. Father Claude Pomt·rleau will celebrate the Mass. A chili lunch at noon will follow in the Ct·nter for Social Concerns. featuring a live hand and a pinata. A 51 donation is asked for the lunch. The Feast of Our Lady of <iuadalupe, tlw patron sainr of Mexico, celebrates her appearance to the poor Indian Juan Diego in I';31. Our Lady re­quested Juan to ask the Bishop to huild a large church in honor of ht-r. As a sign to convince the Bishop to ohey Juan's request, Our Lady filkd his cape with roses in the middle of winter, and miraculously imprinted ht·r image insidt· it. -The Obsen•er 
. . . 
Weather. . ·.· · . · . ·_ 
. -. 
Cloudy today with a 20 percent chance for light snow, mainly in tht· morning. Becoming partly cloudy by afternoon. High around 30. Fair tonight and cold. Low around 20. Partly sunny and a little warmer tomorrow. High in the mid and upper 30s. -AP 


Images of a warm reunion 

e.-The_Obs.erYer_ 
Composition Editor.....Suzanne La Croix Composiliotl Assistant...... Susan 0 'I·lara Typesetters... . .............. Mit" helle 
&Kevin Neu•s Editor... .....Jeff IIarrington Copy Editor. ........ Amy Stephan Sports Copv Editor ... Mike Sullivan 
Viewpoint Layout .... ........ Ken Cerahona Features Layout... .............................. Mary 
& Sarah ND Day Editor.... .Kathleen Doyle SMC Dav Editor.... ' Ad Design... .. Boh and Co. Pbotogra.pbt•r... . ............... Caroll' <iales 
The ObMrver (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods The ObMrver 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Mary·s College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnttng The ubMrver. P 0 Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The ObMrver IS a member of The A880CI.ted PreN. All 
reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Patriotic Welcome 
Schoolchildren from a Beaufort, 
N.C. elementary school, wave flags and ribbons as they hold a sign 
welcoming  Marines  back  from  
Lebanon  at  the port in Mo rehead  
City, N.C.  




Back Home Again 
Marines from the second battalion hustle down the gangplank of the 
U.S.S. Iwo jima after arriving from deployment i11 Lebanon at the Morehead Cit)' Port in Morehead City, N.C., W~dnesday. 

Welcome Home 
Sgt. Larry Millen, from McKin­leyville, Calif, is greeted by his wife Christine as he arrives at Camp Geiger, nearjacksrmllille, N.C., t Wed­nesday on his return from Beirut. Millen is a member of the 24th Marine Marine Ampihious Unit which lost 240 men while sert1ing in Beirut. 

PRE-CANA PROGRAMS 
Marriage preparation is a diocesan requirement across the country 
Pre-Cana Weekends 
Feb. 3-4, Mar. 2-3, Mar. 30-31 
or Host Couple Program 
Inter Faith Instructions 
February 15 a·nd 22 7:30p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
CJ'Rir.liing 
aSoul c:J7[ cfl.c:Jtc:JtcJcfl.Be ? 

Sign up at: Campus Ministry-Badin Office 239-5242 
.· 

The Observer Friday, December 9, 1983 ..:._ p~ge 3 






Organizer explains dinner cancellation 
ByJOAN GIDLIN 
News Staff 
The Madrigal Christmas Dinners, an annual 1 5th-16th century choral music and dance Christmas produc­tion at Saint Mary's, were cancelled largely because of a personal deci­sion by the event's organizer, Profes­sor Ray Sprague. 
Sprague, assistant professor of music at Saint Mary's, said being denied tenure by the College led him to make "a crucial decision" as to what activities he would devote his time to this year. "I had to start thinking in terms of strictly profes­sional activities, as much as I wanted to have the dinners. I have worked on them for six years because I wanted to and because I believed in them." Sprague said he felt he should dedicate his last year at Saint Mary's· to other things. ­
Another major problem is that the Chamber Singers, the real backbone of the production, just didn't come together this year, Sprague noted. 
"The original function of the Chamber Singers was to perform in the Madrigal Dinners each Christmas season and to go on tour each · spring," he said. "Unfortunately, the financial situa­tion caused the tour money to be cut, and the tour was dropped. We lost a lot ofthe male singers bec"ause of the tour's cancellation, and the dinners were a lot of hard work and long hotlrs." 
Sprague had offered to help out ahd coordinate this year's dinners, but could not oversee the smaller, necessary, but time-consuming tasks. 
The dinners, started 11 years ago by Dr. James McCray, originally w t ere .designed to raise money for the tour fund. Over the years, the directors changed the format and allocated some ofthe tour money to better costumes and decorations. "It 
was a capital investment, because 
the decorations can be used again 
and the costumes can be i_rnproved 
year to year. The Office of Special 
Programs helped out by adding a 
good lighting system to create dif­
ferent moods and the like. 
"In the past few years, we have 
been using more of the early instru­
ments and more authentic dance 
and music from the 15th and 16th 
centuries. We have a fireplace at the 
end of the room and long tables. If 
you weren't aware that you were in 
the Regina North lounge, you'd al­
most believe that you were at a 
Madrigal Dinner," said Sprague. 
Although in recent years the tick­
et price increased to $12.50, this did 
not hurt attendance, said Sprague. At 
the worst times, the show sold out 
two to three nights, he said, with an 
attendance low ofabout SQO, or 125 
a night. Attendance peaked about 
four years ago with 700. 
Sprague said the dinners attract a 
crowd composed mainly of people 
from South Bend and surrounding 
communities. This year, there is an­
other Madrigal Dinner in the ar_ea, 
and each year more Christmas 
events compete with the dinners. 
Sprague feels that Saint Mary's has 
been very fortunate to have main­
tained such high attendance. 
Sprague &aid the Madrigal Dinners can continue in the future, but will have to be re-thought out and ap­proached with a new format. Profes­sor Clayton Henderson, music department"chairman at Saint Mary's said, "The Madrigal Dinners will go on. But this year, without the core of the singers, the production was vir" tually impossible. Saint Mary's is the 
.only college in the area with a 
Madrigal Dinner, and· we will Ij;eep 
the tradition going." 
fhe dinners were originally slated for Thursday, Dec. I through Thursday, Dec. 8. · 
rCorby"s] 
"Happy Hour" 4 -7 p."m.

:Jill••• Sponsored by Finance Club Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 12oz Drafts ...•..50¢ 
The New Owners of the Ice House Present 
I I I I ' I I 
1 The Finest selection of seafood, steaks, and special entrees 


~Jet: . r 5-6:30p.m. onFridayand Saturday


uouse Noon until 9 p.m. on Sunday RESftiJ.JRANT No Coupons Please I I "too Center For reservations call259­


• ND-SMC Council for the Retarded • 
will be having a 
Christmas Dance Friday, Dec. 9 7:30-10:00 
and 
Christmas Party Saturday, Dec. 10 9:00-11:30 at Logan Center Everyone is welcome & encouraged to come 


Carol Galc:s..lTttt: Obst'TVt'r 

Decking the halls 
Members of the Notre Dame Glee Club belt out a ofBadin Hall. The carolers strolled to several dorms in chorus oja popular Christmas tune in the party room an effort to spread holiday cheer. 
Students relay mixed reactions to Saint Mary's integration plan 
ByJENNIFER BIGOIT  the Sisters of Holy Cross, owners of  
News Staff  the  building,  must  approve  any  
• physical changes to it.  

The proposal to integrate dorms at Saint Mary's next year has caused mixed reactions among the stu­dents.. 
Regina is the only dorm that will really be affected by the changes, according to Elaine Hoctor, student body president. There are both ad­
vantages ·and disadvantages to the proposed changes, said Hoctor. Freshmen will have more oppor­tunity to get to know upperclas­smen, but the changes will increase the possibility that students will end up living Somewhere the.y really don't want to. "But that happens 
every year," she added. 
Out of IOO students randomly chosen to discuss the proposed changes with the Housing Commis­sion, only 20 showed up. "There was absolutely no student response," said Hoctor. 
Plans to discuss improving dorm life at Regina next year are under­way, according to Hoctor. However, 
"While students will complain, especially sophomoreJ>, I think they will find that living with freshmen 
· 

'I think they will find that living with freshmen again will beriefit them.' 
again will benefit them. It's a difficult situation..I think it will be awhile before ....total integration happens,'" 
Hoctor concluded. 
"I'd feel uncomfortable living in a freshman dorm next year, because that's what Regina is.". said Tertia Carrigan, a McCandless freshman. Overall, she feels integration is a 
good idea, but '.'1 wouldn't want ·to senior. 

Student Union to kick off semester with 'Winter W elcoine Week' fest 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL 
News Staff 
Notre Dame Student Union is sponsoring a "Winter Welcome Week" during the first week of next semester, Jan. 17-21, according to Laurene Powers, organizer of the week. 
"This corresponds with the welcome week for the first semes­ter," Powers explained. "This year we have more events (than last year)." 
"I really don't know what nigh!_s are what right now, but one of the nights we're having an ice-skating ­party over at the ACC (from 10 p.m. to midnight) and that's open to everyone and it's free," she said, noting there will be a rental fee for skates. 
'Polyester', a comedy that features scratch-n-sniff cards corresponding to scenes in the movie, will-be shown in the Engineering Auditorium. "Probably for promo­tiona! purposes, anyone who wears tacky polyester will be let in free; otherwise, it will be a dollar to ge-t in," said Powers _ A video party will be held either Friday or Saturday night in 
a.m. "It'll be very similar to the <me semester, said Powers. we had for the fall festival," said "I'm really hoping that we can get Powers. Admission to the party will a lot ofpeople aware (ofthis week)," be SI. said Powers,"becausc during the 
Plans for several other events first week back, there isn't a gre;J.t have not been finalized. Advertise­deal of homework for everyone, and ments with specific dates and times it just might be a great way to start of all events will be released next the social life for the second semes­week or at the beginning of next ter." 
Observer announces news staff promotions 
The Observer News Department is proud to announce the following promotions within the department: 
Theresa_Guarino, a sophomore communications major at Saint Mary's, has been selected as a copy editor. Guarino, a staff reporter, has·· written extensively for The Ob­server. She is from Oak Park, Ill. 
Promotions to Senior Staff Repor­ter include the following: Liz Flor, a junior from Bellevue, Wash. and Pat Mullen, a sophomore at the Univer­sity. 
The following reporters have been promote~ to Staff Reporter: Tripp Baltz, a freshman from Cor-­
•• H!P.~.tll~~-~ii.U!~~~~.~llT,;..-!0 2;_ dova, Tenn.;Jim Basile:a sophomo<e 
-·-------... ------------.. ----.. -­
be there," she added. 
Julie Misrach, also a McCandless freshman, said she feels the changes are unfair, because "a sophomore living in Regina is like a freshman living in McCandless. You miss out on an awful lot." 
Holy Cross junior Cindy Boyle said she doesn't feel the changes are neccessary, because all halls other than Regina "are integrated enough." 
"I wouldn't want to live in Regina again next year," said Suzanne Licon, "because it's going to take a long time before Regina loses it's stigma as the freshman dorm." 
Mary Louise Padden, a sophomore 
from Holy Cross, said she thinks the 
proposal is a goou idea, because "it 
would give the freshmen a chance to 
talk to upperclassmen." 
"It's a bad idea, because freshman 
need to develop friendships fresh­
man year in a freshman situation. 
LeMans is a senior dorm because all 
the seniors want to live near each 
other." said Loret Haney, a LeMans 
from Philadelphia, Penn.; Jennifer 
Biggot, a freshman from Aroma Park, 
Ill.; Michael Chmiel, afreshman from 
Chicago; Timothy Gianotti, a fresh­
man from Portland, Ore.; Keith Hac­
rison, a freshman from Allison Park, 
Penn.; and Rebecca Hetland, a fresh­
man from Rolling Hills, Ill. 
Also: Jane Kravs_ik, a freshfllan 
from Western Springs, lll.;Johr · · :n­
nell, a freshman from Roseville, 
Minn.; Joe Murphy, a freshman from 
St. Louis; John Neblo, a junior from 
Hickory Hills, Ill.; Ed Nolan. a fre~h­
man from Allentown, Penn.; Mark 
Potter, a freshman from Port~:111d, 
Ore.; Tom Powers, a freshm;ll" :"com 
Newtown, Conn.; and Steve::: .<i\', a 
junior from Lake Bluff, IlL ' 
---.. --------------.. ------J 


,. 
The Observer l_'riday, December 9, 1983-page 4 

Soviet Union recesses talks with U.S. on strategic arms 
Associated Press 
GENEVA, Switzerland The Soviet l Inion recessed its nuclear strategic-arms talks with the United States yesterday without setting a date for resumption. 
li.S. officials predictnl the Soviets would return to the bargaining table:. Hut Moscow's move threatened to Ic:ave the super­powers "'ith no major forum for negotiating <.·utbacks in nuclear missiles. 
In Washington, President Reagan, while sounding optimistic about an eventual resumption of the talks, signaled ht· may be ready for a sum­mit meeting with Soviet leader Yuri Andropov.
The Soviets, in announcing suspt·nsion of tht· negotiations, saki deployment of new l l.S. medium-range missiles in Europt· had created a "change in the ovt·rall strategic situation," forcing it to re-examine tht· issut·s in START H the strategk arms rnluction talks. 
On Nov. 2~. after the arrival ofthe American cruise and Pershing 2 missiles in Wt·stern Europe, the 
Soviets hrokt· off the medium-range "Eurombsile" talks, whkh had been carrkd on hert· parallel to the START disc;·ussions on long-range missiles ami homhers. 
Yesterday's meeting had bet·n sdteduled as the tina! OJH' of the cur­rent round, beginning a holiday recess. <>rdinarily the sides would have st·t a resumption datt· for ap­proximatdy eight wt'l'ks from now. 
But Soviet Ambassador Viktnr Karpov read a statement to chiefU.S. negotiator Edward Rowny, saying the talks stalled because of the new missiles and the Soviets would not agree to a new date. 

"A change in the overall strategic situation due to the beginning of the deployment of new American missiles in Europe compels the Soviet side to re-examine all the issues which are the subject of the discussion at the talks on the limita­tion and reduction ofstrategic arma­ments," the Soviet news agency Tass said later in summarizing the Soviet argument. 
Earlier this week, Soviet officials 
in Moscow warned that the strategic arms talks were headed in the same 
direction as the medium t -range negotiations, which Kremlin leaders have written otfas a "dead letter." 
After the 3S-minute final session, 
Rowny told reporters the United States regretted the Soviet decision and "cannot agree with Soviet asser­lions that developments outside the scope of these negotiations require the Soviet l :nion to withhold agree­nH:nt on a resumption date for the 
sixth round ofSTART." 

But Rowny did not describe the Soviet movt· as abandonment of the 17-month-old talks. 
In Washington, a Reagan ad­ministration official predicted the Kremlin would resume the START negotiations next year bt·cause they have a "clear interest" in arms con­trol. 
Spt·aking to reporters outside the White House, Reagan said he did not 
interpret the Soviet moves as a 
"walkout." 
He noted that Secretary of State 

George Shultz is prepared to meet 
with Soviet Foreign Minister Andei 
Gromyko at a disarmament con­
ferene in Stockholm, Sweden, next 
month, and that such a meeting 
could lead to a summit with 
Andropov. 
A British official, who asked not to 

be identified, said in Brussels he was 
"not particularly upset" by the 
Soviet refusal to set a new date for 
START sessions, indicating that such 
suspensions were not unprece­
dented in past strategic arms talks. "The Soviet attitude does not necessarily mean START will not resume," he said. Other officials, .who insisted on anonymity, said delegates at the Brussels meeting agreed the alliance should not change its negotiating stance or missile deployment plans to draw the Soviets back to the table. 
"Nobody is running around in a state of frenzy," looking for new ideas, said a senior U.S. offieiaL But European officials said there was a need for new ideas to keep U.S.­Soviet talks alive and that some were being suggested. 
Assistant U.S. Secretary of State Richard Burt said changing the Pershing-cruise deployment schedule had been discussed, but the "general view is there should be no change." A slowdown in deploy­ment would be viewed as a conces­sion to tht; Soviets. 
Marines clash with Shiite snipers 
Associated Press 
IIEIR! T, l.c:banon-l'.S. Marines 
wipnl out a Shiite milil~<t sniper m·st 
and bunkcr in a tkrct· ext·hange of 
tirt· yesterday, and tht· Reagan ad­
ministration said it was consitkring 
plans to nwvt· tht· Marine~ out of 
II T drut airport to safer positions. 
Tht· Marint·s rt·taliatt·d \l.'ltt'll tlw 
nortlll'astl'Cn pt-rimeter of their bast· 
came untkr a sustainnl barrage of 
mortars, rockt·t·propdkd grt·ttatks 
and automatic ritk tirt· at l):26 a.m. 
( l:2(> a.m. EST). 
The shooting t·amt· from a posi­
tion in the Shiilt· !\1o~lem stronghold 
of I lay d-Sdlum, and the bunkt·r was 
dt·stro}'l'd with 60mm mortars. M­
(>0 tank guns and Dragon missiles, 
spokt·sman Maj. lknnis Brooks said. 
Tht· '"larint·s also shdlnl a build· 
ing that had htTn usnl by Shiite 
snipers to fin· at leatht·rntTk posi­
tions somt· ISO yanbaway. 

Brooks ~aid tht· Marines suffered no casualtks in tht· battk, whkh ended at I 0:·10 a.m. ( 5:--10 a.m. EST), hut till' Mariw:s rt·mainnl on their higlwst statt· of alert in foxholes and bunkers. 
!lay d-Sdlum is a stronghold of Amal, tht· dominant Shiite militia. Shiite hmatics wert· suspt-ctnl of masterminding the suicide lnKk homhing that killed 2--10 Aml'Cican troops at the :\1arint· hast· Oct. 2~. 
Tht· Druse control the hilb above 
the airport, and Drust· gunnt·rs were 
rnponsibk for an attat·k that killed 
eight Marines Sunday. 
lkctust· of tht· attacks. the Reagan administration is considering plans to move the Marines away from tht· airport' to mort' shdtt·red positions, spokesman Larry Speakes said in Washington }TSit·rday. 

Spl'akes declined to givt· details, but said no consitkration is hdng given to withdrawing the Marines from l.t·hanon. 
Tht· Nt·w York Times said the plans indudt· redeploying tht· Marines to po 1 sitions south ofthe air­port or to amphibious ships off short·, and that thq camt· in rc·sponsl' to domestic and foreign 
J>fl'.\SUft' 
Ohsl'Cvers in Beirut said moving the Marines south of the airport would still put tht m in range of Druse batteries, but they would he more protected than at the airport. They said putting the Marines ahoard ships, while prott-cting them, might tend to eclipse the li.S. pean·keeping presence in l.ehanon. 
In Rome. Italian newspapers said Primt· Minister Bettino Craxi's government wanted to gradually reduc:e its l, 100-man contingent in 
tht·  multinational  pt·acekeeping  
force in Lt·hanon.  
l I.S.  involvement  rose  sharply  

Sunday with an air strike on Syrian­controlled positions in the central mountains. The Syrians downed two 
ll.S. jets, killed one airman and 
captured another. St·n. Alfonse D'Amato said in New 
York yesterday that the captured air­
man, Navy Lt. Robert 0. Goodman, 
will he allowed to meet with 
representatives of the International 
Reo Cross. 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak 
Shamir denounced the United Na­
tions for deciding to hdp the 
evacuation of Yasser Arafat from 
Lebanon. 
Shamir, visiting Israelis wounded in the bombing of a Jerusalem bus Tuesday, said the United Nations' agreement to let its flags fly on the Greek ships which are to take: Arafat and his PLO loyalists out of Tripoli, Lebanon, "is a subject for the most extreme condemnation." 
Arafat has been trapped since Nov. ~ by Syrian-hacked guerrilla mutineers aecusing him of softening his stance toward Israel. 

Space shuttle souvenirs snatched from students 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -1\iASA officials have confiscated from six Purdue University students souvc:nirs that were sneakc:d aboard the spaet· shuttle Challenger last 
June. 

It was the first known attempt to sneak contraband aboard a space shuttle flight. 
Several university experiments had been approved hy the National At·ronautks and Space Administra­tion. But along with the official ex­periments, the students put aboard postage stamps, baseball cards, dol­lar hills, love notes and snapshots of families and their dogs. 
The souvenirs were hidden under tht· battery box ofone of the experi­ments. escaped dc:tection hy NASA inspectors and survived the journey through span:. 
Officials discovcred the souvc:nirs when a student was caught nc:ar a souvt·nir shop at the Cape Ken­nedy's Visitors Cent~·r trying to sell some of the postage stamps to two NASA investigators. 
"We wound up with a bit of con­troversy over this, but it was actually resolved on a very good basis," said John Snow, the Purdue professor who was the faculty adviser for the experiments. 
"There was some misunderstand­ing about NASA regulations," he said. "The regulations provide that you can fly certain memorabilia, hut what wasn't clear was that NASA provided a separate locker for that. That misunderstanding, at first. led to some consternation on the part of NASA." 
In 1971. three Apollo I') a~tronauts secretly carried souvcnir stamped em·elopes to the moon. Their space careers ended when it was discovered the envelopes were sold for S I SO,OOO by a Gc:rman stamp dealer. 
In the Purdue situation, some stu­dc:nts worried that they might he ar­
rt·stc:d,  but  after  NASA  officials  
travc:led  to  the  West  Lafayette  
l·ampus  and  interviewed  the  stu­ 

dents. no charges were filed. 

[CorbDJ 
"Happy Hour" 4-7 p.m. Sponsored by Finance Club 
~~···· 
Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 
12oz Drafts ....•.SOC 
SOPHOMORES!!! 
Prepare the way ofthe Lord. The Lord is near! 
Come celebrate with your classmates at the third 
Sophomore Class Mass, on Sunday, Dec. 11 at 6 p.m. in Farley Chapel. Father Ted Hesburgh will preside. A reception will follow. 
-.u'kl [.-tn£ ~-n\r 'IHr.t·\ 
CUIWHIJNIICAiliiUN 
~__....___i]l fcllll~l[ 
lt=llliii()A\"' lt=/1/Lr\\t ~1~112111~~ 
HULLABALOO OVER GEORGIE AND BONNIE'S PICTURES Two young aristocrats in contemporary India who have fallen on hard limes must decide whether or not to sell a priceless collection of miniature paintings coveted by several art collectors. This James Ivory-lsmael Merchant collaboration is said to be reminiscent of Rules of the Game. (Senso will not be shown.) 85 minutes 1978 8 p.m. 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum ADMISSIONS2.oo 
7
....._--lr1() ~ /1113/ti lr­
-:JOP-M.,_., 



The Observer Friday, December 9, 1983 ·page 5 
Co-Director of the National Center Chairman of the Board of Lehman Vice president and chief Vice president and grot•p executive President of Dillon Companies, for Economic Alternatives. Also, Brothers Kuhn Loeb Inc., an inter­economist at General Motors. in charge of the Public Affairs in Hutchinson, Kansas. Also is a serves as senior economic advisor national investment banking firm. Serves on the boards of two major Staffs Group for General Motors. member cA the National Board of to the National Economic Also serves as director of six other corporations and is a trustee Also is a partner of the Chicago Consultants for the National Recovery Project. major U.S. corporations. at Princeton University. law firm Kirkland and Ellis. Endowment for the Humanities. 


What Rome has to do With Wall Street 
F. Ray Marshall 

Bernard Rapoport Centermial Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin. President of the National Policy Exchange 
Bishops to consult experts in business, theology to gather information for upcoming pastoral letter 
By MARYJACOBY 
News Staff 
The old question "What has jerusalem to do with At­hens?" will be appropriately changed to "What has Rome to do with Wall Street" when a symposium study­ing ethicsand the marketplace convenes at Notre Dame Monday. 
Five American bishops charged with drafting a pas­toral letter on Catholic social teaching and the American economy for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops will consult with experts in business, labor and theology. 
The bishops will likely present their first draft docu­ment at the national conference ofbishops in Novem­ber 1984. This symposium, however. is the first consultation by the bishops that has been open to the public. More than 50 colleges and universities will be represented, and 20 newspaper and television repor­ters from around the country will attend. 
Because the eventual document may criticize some aspects ofcapitalism, the bishops' efforts are attracting almost as much attention as the committee which recently drafted the statement on nuclear war. 
The bishops' committee, appointed in 1981 by the 
national bishops conference, asked Notre Dame's Cen­
ter for Ethics and Religious Values in Business to con­
vene the symposium. The center is under the 
co-directorship of Father Oliver Williams and john 
Houck, both ofthe management department. 
"The bishops want to write a document today that historians 40 or 50 years from now will say had major impact on the trajectory ofindustrial society," Houck said. 
The national conference ofbishops in 1919, Houck added, wrote a document on the economy that "laid the blueprint for the New Deal." 
The symposium will be held in the Center for Continuing Education Monday through Wednesday. Seminarson economic planning, employment the poor, and U.S. trade with developing countries will be led by 18 experts in the fields. Some 50 resource persons from Notre Dame's faculty and from church, business and labor groups will participate in the discussions. 
The seminar leaders will distribute previously 
prepared 25-page papers and summarize the contents 
during the discussions. Microphones will also be 
provided to allow the audience to ask questions. 
The bishops' committee previously decided that the 
proposed letter should include a presentation ofChris­
tian principles and a of the economy. The sym­posium is open to the general public, including students. Advance registration is required. 
According to Williams, the pastoral letter was proposed because the church has always been con­cerned with instilling Christian values in society. The letter, he said, will focus on how Christian ethics can help determine the organization of the economy for both growth and equity so that economic burdens do not fall primarily on the poor. By examining Catholic social teaching and the American economy, the bishops hope to offer guidance to people wishing to apply religious values to the economy. 
The bishops' committee has already written the por­tion ofthe letterconcerning Christian principles and vi­sions ofthe economy. But a complete draft -including sections on economic planning, employment, the poor, and Third World trade-has not been made final. 
Williams said the bishops will have to decide at next week's conference how detailed the letter should be. Christian principles must be applied to the four areas, although he said there arc not any specific "Christian" answers to the problems. 
"The thrust here is to find out the meaning ofone's faith as it applies to an industrial society," Houck said. Students preparing for careers in business, law, medicine and engineering "would want to ask these questions." 
Committee members, arriving on Dec. 13 and 14, will be staying at the Morris Inn. Milwaukee Archbishop Rembert Weakland, chairman of the committee, will celebrate the 5:15 p.m. Tuesday Mass at Sacred Heart Church. The Notre Dame Chapel Choir will also be appearing. 
Members ofthe bishops' committee include Weak­land, Atlanta Archbishop Thomas A. Donnellan; Bishop George H. Speltz, ofSt. Cloud, Minn.; Bishop William K. Weigand, ofSait Lake City, Utah; and Auxiliary Bishop Peter A. Rosazza, Hartford, Conn. 
Speakers not pictured include Daniel R. Finn, chair­man ofthe economics department at St. John's Univer­sity;Joe Holland, co-director ofthe Center ofConcern in Washington, D.C.; Father David Hollenbach, as­sociate professor ofthe:;ological ethics at Weston School ofTheology in Cambridge, Mass.; Dennis McCann, professor of religious studies at DePaul University; Kirk Hanson ofStanford University; Rudy Oswald, ofthe AFL­CIO; Gerald Cavanagh ofthe University of Detroit; Father Richard McBrien, chairman oftheology at Notre Dame and Lee Tavis, C. R. Smith Chair of Business Ad-

Michael Novak Graciela Olivarez 
Resident Scholar in Religion and Attorney-at-law, Albuquerque, Public Policy at the American New Mexico. Former director of Enterprise Institute in Washington, the Community Services 
D.C. Has served as an advisor to Administration. Presidents Ford and Carter. 


The Schedule 

MONDAY, DEC. 12 
1:15 to 1:45 -Opening Remarks 
John Houck and Father Oliver Williams, conference organizers Father Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame 

1:45 to 5:30 -Economic Planning 
Gar Alperovitz, National Center for Economic Alternatives Peter. G. Peterson, Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb Marina von Nuemann Whitman, General Motors Elmer W. Johnson, General Motors Daniel R. Finn, St. John's University Chairman: Kirk Hanson, Stanford University 

TUESDAY, DEC. 13 8:45 to 11 :45 -Employment 
Joseph A. Pichler, Dillon Companies 
F. Ray Marshall, former secretary of labor Rudy Oswald, AFL-CIO David Hollenbach, University of Detroit Chairman: Gerald Cavanagh, University of Detroit 

1:45 to 5:00 -The Poor and Disadvantaged 
Michael Novak, American Enterprise Institute Graciela Olivarez, attorney Dennis P. McCann, DePaul University Chairman: Father Richard McBrien, Notre Dame 


WEDNESDAY, DEC.14 
8:45 to 11:30 -U.S. Trade with Third World 
Father Ernest Bartell, Notre Dame 
C. Fred Bergsten, Institute for International Economics Joe Holland, Center for Concern Chairman: Lee Tavis, Notre Dame 

11:30 -Closing Remarks 
Rembert Weakland, Archbishop of Milwaukee 

Each speaker will present a 20-minute summary of his or her paper on the topic. Discussions will be in the CCE Auditorium. 

C. Fred Bergsten 

Director of the Institute for Inter­national Economics. Former asst. secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs. Also, senior fellow of the Brookings Institution. 
Father Ernest Bartell 
Executive director of the Helen Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies at Notre Dame. Also serves as overseas mission coordi­nator for trhe priests of Holy Cross. 

The Observer Friday, December 9, 1983-pa:ge 6 





Reagan criticizes schools' discipline 

Associated Press nation's schools, Reagan said that to­tal money for schm)ls was up almost 
INDIANAPOLIS President 7 percent over"the past year. This in­Reagan declared yesterday that crease stems from greater state and America's schools must be "temples local spending, rather than a greater oflearning, not drug dens," and said "federal contribution. he had ordered the justice and "If money alone were the answer, Education departments to find ways the problem would have been of helping schools "enforce dis­shrinking, not growing," the presi­cipline." dent said. 
The president, in a speech Speakes told reporters that while prepared for delivery before · an significant increases in the educa­education summit of 2,300 teachers, tion budget were not anticipated, school administrators, politicians, there was no decision about cut­parents, and teachers' union backs. The New York Times, quoting representatives, called for stricter Education Department officials, classroom discipline and unveiled a reported the president's next educa­program of presidential academic tmn budget would be between the awards. S l 5.2 billion approved by Congress 
He told the group he had ordered this year and the S 13.5 billion the justice and Education "to find ways administration had projected for we can help teachers and ad­this year. ministrators enforce discipline." Education Secretary T.H. Bell has 
On the flight from Washington, acknowledged, however; that more White House spokesman Larry money is needed to meet the recom­Speakes, discussing Reagan's order mendations made by a presidential to the justice Department, said the commtsston on education last
Soviets predict 'nuclear winter'· 
department was looking for ways in spring. That panel decried "a rising by Alcxandrov at a Capitol Hill sym­Kennedy and Sen. Mark Hatfield, ·which school principals can work tide of mediocrity" in the nation's 
Associated Press 
posium paralleled recent forecasts R-Ore., leading congressional adv­with law. enforcement officers to im­schools. by U.S. scientists about worldwide ocates of a U.S.-Soviet nuclear prove community support for "America's schools don't need 
WASHINGTON -A computer­

catastrophic weather changes likely weapons freeze, co-sponsored yes­school discipline. vast new sums of money as much asassisted Soviet study, virtually to result from a large-scale nuclear terday's session in conjunctio t n with He said Reagan's interest in stric­they need a few fundamental matching assessments by U.S. scien­.exchange. the Nuclear Freeze Foundation, a ter discipline did not necessarily reforms," Reagan said. 
tists, shows that any survivors of a .In opening the session, Sen. Ed­Washington-based group. mean support for physical punish­"First, we need to restore good,
nudear war would f.1ce a "long 
ward Kennedy, D-Mass., contended Kennedy assailed a recent study ment. old-fashioned discipline," he said. 
nuclear winter" thrt·att·ning their 
"the evidem:e now points by the Federal Emergency Manage­Reagan rode by motorcade to the "In too many schools across the
extinction, a Sovkt scientist said 
over'whelmingly to this stark truth: a ment Administration suggesting that National Forum on Excellence in land, teachers can't teach because yesterday. 
third world war would be the last U.S. agricultural output would large­Education after arriving here by they lack the authority to make stu­
"A nudear w;u of any scope 

~orld war -for it would be a war ly be able to survive ·a nuclear attack. plane. Side streets along his dents take tests and hand inwould mt·an either the disap­
·against the world itself." motorcade route were blocked with homework. Some don't even have
"I am disturbed ...by continuing
pearanct· of mankind or its degrada­
"The inescapable truth is that the snowplows, dumptrucks and buses, the authority to quiet do~vn their
signs that some in the administratiun
tion to a level below the prehistoric 
firing ofeven a fraction of the Soviet reflecting the tightened security class."
regard nuclear war as winnable and
one," said Vladimir Alexandrov, 
and American arsenals would turn around. the president in recent He called for an end to "the drug
survivable," he said. "This kind of
head of . a climate-modeling 
the northern ;Jemisphere into a cold weeks. and alcohol abuse that plagues
thinking makes nuclear war more
laboratory at the Sovkt Academy of · 
des t crt and the whole earth into a Criticizing suggestions that more hundreds of thousands of our
likely because it-makes nuclear war
Sciences Computing Center. 
dying planet," he said. money was needed to improve the children."
seem more bearable."
The research tindings presented 

. -----·--·----­-----..·------------­



-----tl~ 24
' 






"Books make the 1 eal Christmas Gift ...,, 



Now thr Christmas ­
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
1

Chrisfmas Sale -10°/o OFF all ha~dbound trade books
Iplus 

different daily srecials on paperback racks 
also 


· 5 tables of spec1al Christmas books on sale 







bestsellers ....... co kbooks ....... gift calendars Irish ~ ooks .......... children's books 
1 

art books .........Jprts books ....... . 
* FREE GIFfW PPING on all books 
~~Give a book II this Christmas'=-'-=======~, 

_. 

The Observer Friday, D~cember9, 1983-page 7 


U.S. agrees to plan to maintain troops 

Lebanon can re~over its full in­dependence and integrity." 
He said they agreed the two main priorities in Lebanon are national reconciliation and the withdrawal of all foreign forces and that they vowed "to do all in their power to promote this." 
Israel, Syria and the Palestinians all have forces on Lebanese ter­ritory. 
The premier of Italy and opposi­tion figures in the other countries have expressed concern about their involvement after the United States on Sunday bombed Syrian anti­aircraft positions. U.S. officials said the bombing was meant to protect surveillance flights linked to the multinational force. 
More than _:,oo troops of the mul­tinational force have been killed, including 256 U.S. servicemen. 
Paul Kompare buys a pizza in Stanford Food Sales from Dan O'Donnell. 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS -The United States and three allies agreed yesterday to keep their troops in Lebanon, but there were signs of growing im­patience that tht: bloodshed was continuing despite the presence of the multinational force. 
"We do not want to give the im­pression that we would abandon the Lebanese. We support President (Amin) Gemayel," said Foreign Min­ister Claude Cheysson of France. 
But an Italian spokesman told 

reporters that his nation is consider­
ing removing I,000 of its 2,100 
troops from the multinational force. 
And a British official, wlio insisted 
on anonymity, said, "All along it has 
been accepted this is not an open­
ended commitment. Our aim has 
been to create circumstances in 
which the MNF (multinational 
force) is no longer needed." · 
The renewed commitments ofthe 

four nations came during a breakfast 
meeting of foreign ministers in the 
suite of "eorge Shultz, the U.S. 
secretary ofstate. 
The meeting involved Shultz, 

Cheysson, Foreign Secretary Geof­
frey Howe of Britain and Foreign 
Minister Giulio Andreotti ofitaly. 
A U.S. official said the ministers 

emphasized that the 5,600-man 
force is intended to improve 
stability in Lebanon and to help 
"establish conditions under which 
A U.S. spokesman acknowledged the political stalemate and violence in Lebanon could exhaust the patience of "the various publics" if progress toward a solution isn't 
forthcoming soon. 
The U.S. official said the commit­ment to keeping the fore~ in Lebanon isn't linked to progress on national ;econciliation. But he added, "What happens as you progress over the weeks and months if there is no progress on the nation­al reconciliation front, I don't know." He briefed reporters on the 
condition he not be identified. 
CRAZY PICTURE HUNT CONCLUDES: 
Penny Vote for United Way Fund in LaFortune Atrium 
Monday, December 12 and Tuesday December 13 
11:00 a.m. to 4:00p.m. each day 
Come and Vote! Winner to be decided Tues., Dec. 13 at 4pm 
continuedfrom page I 
Flanner Hall 
• 
Commercial-type Bakers Pride full size oven, dirty and lacking ap­propriate and proper ventilation 

• 
Refrigerator dirty 

• 
This department questions the use of the garbage can as a sump crock and the sump pump located in a food 

storage and food preperation area 

• 
Improper washing of utensils 

• 
Lacking appropriate and safe tem­perature contols for hazardous foods 

• 
Rodent infestation Grace Hall 

• 
Plugged drain in the Coke cooler 

• 
Improper storage in storage area creating a fire hazard 

• 
Plugged drain in Pepsi cooler 

• 
Use of the enamelware utensils (not allowed) 

• 
Improper cleaning offood holding utensils 

• 
At the time of the evaluation, there was a milk delivery with no time in­dicate_d on the delivery slip and the milk and chip dip had risen to room temperature or approximately 67 degrees Farenheit 

• 
Commercial-style South Bend piz­za oven filthy and lacking ap­propriate and safe ventilation system, creating a fire hazard 


• Quarry tile used as a liner for t shelves in the pizza oven Flammable and combustible 
t 
t 
materials stored on the top of the pizza oven 
t 

• 
Portable hotbox very dirty 

• 
Improper storage of single service (plastic) items 

• 
Improper wiring Pasquerilla East 

• 
Generally, Pasquerilla East is limited in food service and found to be in good shape 


PasquerillaWest 
• 
The pizza oven is located on a com­bustible surface 

• 
Generally, Pasquerilla West was 


found to be in good condition Farley Hall 
• 
Single service (plastic) utensils stored on the floor 

• 
Pizza cookers stored and used on a combustible surface 

• 
Large accumulation of unemptied trash Breen-Phillips Hall 

• 
Toaster dirty 

• 
Generally, food sales operation in 


good condition Holy Cross Hall 
• 
Refrigerator dirty 

• 
Pizza cooker not properly electri­cally grounded 

• 
In need of general and overall cleaning 


Lewis Hall 
• 
All four pizza cookers filthy 

• 
One pizza cooker located too close to the sink, the G.E. home-style oven is very filthy 

• 
The storage of single service (plastic) utensils is deplorable and these utensils are being reused 

• 
Refrigerator filthy 


• • • Health 
ZahmHall 

• 
Cardboard used in the mirowave creating a fire hazard 

• 
Two commercial-style Bakers Pride ovens dirty creating a fire hazard and lacking appropriate ven­tilation 

• 
Two small pizza cookers very dirty Keenan Hall 

• 
Three home-style ovens an ab­solute disaster (evidence of fire problems) • A ventilation hood and system is present but is lacking fil­ters and is improperly constructed with improper motors and ventila­tion drivers 

• 
Walls and floors filthy Stanford Hall 

• 
Home-style oven extremely filthy 

• 
Commercial-style Bakers Pride oven verv dirty, tremendous cheese buildups and lacking appropriate ventilation 

• 
Rotted food was located in the refrigerator and the refrigerator was filthy 

• 
Utensil sanitation deplorable 

• 
Ant and roach infestation Sorin Hall 

• 
The ovens and microwaves filthy 

• 
Floors filthy 

• 
Cooler filthy 

• 
Mouse infestation 


• 
Severe food storage problems Walsh Hall 

• 
Pizza cooker dirty 

• 
Popcorn maker dirty 


• 
Supposedly clean dishes still dirty St. Edward's Hall 

• 
Commercial-style Bakers Pride oven very dirty, with burned cheese buildups, and lacking appropriate and safe ventilation 

• 
Small pizza oven dirty 

• 
Floor filthy 

• 
Utensils dirty 

• 
Walls filthy 


• 
Large accmulation oftrash 

• 
Kitchenette filthy 


• 
Uncovered and unprotected food in the cooler 


• • .Snow 
continuedfrom page I 
There is no University rule against 
throwing snowballs, said Roemer 
adding, "I don't know that I would 
recommend such a rule." He noted, 
however, the snowball fight violated 
University rule one in Du Lac, which 
prohibits "any threat or deliberate 
injury to the person ofanother wit•l· 
in or without the University com­
munity." 

Roemer said he plan:< ro send a 
letter to each rector about it. · 
"Those who throw shoulu taKe responsibility," said Roemer, "but how are you going to assess respon­sibility? It would be nice if those who caused the damages came forth and took responsibility, but I doubt they will." 
t 
DRAFT:
t t 
MILITARY
t t COUNSELING t t t t 
t 
t t 
Trained counselors are available to assist 
t 
Notre Dame students in the discernment of
t 
their own consciences regarding whether or 
t 
not they are morally willing to fight in a war 
t t t t t 
For more information contact; 
t t Margaret Garvey t Office of Campus Ministry 
t 239·5242 t 


t 

t 
"Happy Hour" 4-7 p.m. Mixed Drinks 2 for 1
t 

12oz Drafts ......SOC
t 
t 
t 

PLANNING A TRIP TO CHICAGO?
·---------------------------------------~1 
t 

TAKE THE NEW SOUTH SHORE
t 

Comfortable, fast, convenient service to the
t 

heart of downtown Chicago. A one -way ticket
t 

is just $7. Save even more money by buying a t new 10-ride ticket (valid on all non-rush-hour and 
weekend train"s) which is 20 percent ott the regu­
t 

lar fare-or ride the South Shore on Sundays when 
t 

the one-way fare is just $5.60. Weekday trains to
t 

Chicago leave South Bend at 7:00 am, 8:55 am, t and 8:35pm local time. The next two Saturdays, December 10 and 17,
t 

an extra train has been added departing South
t 

Bend at 9:35 am. Other trains on Saturdays de­
t 

part at 7:40am, 11:30 am, 4:40pm, and 7:35pm. t On both Saturday and Sunday, train departures from Chicago are at 12:15 pm, 3:58 pm, and
t 

5:58pm Chicago time. For more information call
t 

233 3111 or 1-923-1116 (Mon-Fri). 
: 
I I I I I I I I I 
---------------------------------------· 

Friday, December 9, 1983-page 8 


View~oint 
Suggestions for a new lottery system 
Ah yes. I never thought I'd look hack at Stu· dt·nt llnion ticket lottnies of past years with fond memorie~. hut aftn the n·n·nt Billy Jod fiasco, wdl ... 
Most of you know about it, either because you wen.· involved or rt·ad the coverage. And 
Tim Neely 
Guest column 

many of you found out how much your num· ht·r was worth when you picked up the tickets -an inordinate number of students were as­signed to the bleachers, and some of those were hid('fJUS bleal·ht·r scats. 
We all know what happened. So how can things be different in case sul·h a big attraction should come to the ACC in the future? 
Hrst, det,elop a system which does not force stutlenls to pari u•ilh their1/J cards. As a 
vt·teran of many concert lotteries, I didn't see 
anything wrong with the mt·thod used until, 
for unknown reasons, it was scrapped this 
year. 
To fill in tht· uninformed, here's how it 

worked: A studt·nt showed a maximum of one (his, hn, someone dse's) II> at the door, and was gin·n a piece ofpapt·r with a number 

Boring cheers 

Dearlidilor: 
Now that the football season is over, I 

would like to address an issue far removed 
from tht· usual criticism launched against 
coa<:h and players. I wish to comment on the 
<:hants and songs used by fans at tht· games. It 
is not a critical view, the cheerleaders are en­
thusiastic and tht· studt·nts as a whole stand 
bt·hind their tt·am whatever the score. 

But I still think many of our cheers are monotonous. Vt·ry different from the "revt·nge fumble" sung at the USC game and the jingling ofkeys during the Pitt game. Why not adopt ~imilar ideas throughout the season instt·ad of using them at particular games and pt·p rallks only? 
Perhaps a n1mpetition could be organized, along the lines of tht· Banner contests, to find somt· nt·w chn·rs. It would be interesting to see if Notre Damt· could become as famous 
for its supportt·rs a~ the football team is for thdr playing. This would requirt· slightly more stimulating chants than "Go, Go, Go" or tht· more subtle "Go, Irish, Go". 
Winston Griffin 


Is God a he? 

Dear Fdilor: 
Does Keith Picha (Dec I ) really bdit've any bt·ndit could come from his proposal to invt·nt a pronoun, Az, to refer to <;od? The prnlkament that so concerns him results from the fact that wt· choose to use a pt·rsonal pronoun in referem.'l' to God, but the English languaj.:e hao; no appropriate pronoun. Picher admits that "Calling <;od a 'he' is at bl'St a nwtaphor, if not merdy a weakness in human language." 
In addition. he states that such God· nwtaphors an· "by nature quite incomplete:, as any idea of (;od must he." Given these: premises, might it not be more rea~onahlc: to on it. Someone at the front of the room drew numbc:rs which determined a place in line for ticket saks. The next day, students arrived at the ticket office u•· other convenient location to buy their tkkets in accordance with their lottery positions. 
There were some flaws in this, like: in the case of the occasional person who overslept his place in line, and it also wa'> a mess in large lotteries, but compart:d to the systc:m of throwing IDs into a hat and drawing them, and having people pay for the tickets without knowing what they're gc:tting bdorc:hand, it makes more sense. 
Sc:cond, develop some way to determine student response to certain acts. It is my un­derstanding that the concert people at Stu­dent Union had no idea how popular a Billy Joel concert would be. Shame:, shame! 
In April 1979, Joel made a stop at the ACC during his 52nd Street tour. The people run­ning concert lotreries knew how popular he was then (and he's even more popular now) and were ready for it: the lottery was scheduled at night ( 7 pm) and in Stepan Cen­ter, the: largest building available. Ap­proximately 1,850 people were there:, and the line stretched at one: point back to the North Dining Hall. We: all know what happened when ao; many people tried to jam into the Nazz! 
There are certain acts which will do well 


P. 0. Box Q 

accept the limitations ofthe English language, openly acknowledge them and move on to 
less intractable probler.ts? 

I do agree, however, with Picher's conclu­sion that "when we stop referring to God ex­clusively as 'He' we will make more of a statement about ourselves than God." Indeed, we may make an "Az" out ofvurselves. 
Rick Auchter 

Exam proposal 
Dear Editor: 

Next year at this time I could he studying 
for exams tha~ are worth more than one halfof 
my grade. However, I, like the majority of 
Notre Dame students will be greatly dismayed 
if this new exam proposal is passed. Although 
there may be some reasoning behind the sys­
tem, the disadvantages greatly outweigh the 
benefits. 

!.Although an exam is a good meao;ure of 
the student's comprehension, an exam is not 
necessarily the best method for every course. 
2.A more heavily weighted exam would probably make the student study more intent­ly. But presently, most students study con­tinually throughout the semester and study even harder during exam time. However, if 
the final exam is worth one halfor more ofthe final grade, there would be a greater tendency to "blow off' the semester and cram for the final. creating poor study habits. 
.'U could also foresee 6ercer competition among students. Right now, the students arc highly competitive, but not necessarily with each other. Friendliness prevails here as stu­dents help each other, unlike many schools where experiments are destroyed and hdp is d<:nied. But if the exam value is increased, academics would be stressed even more, and people would be more concerned about their own academics and not their fellow students. 
4.Finally, it would be highly unfair if one wao; to work diligently throughout the course, getting good grades, yet because of a "bad day" or poor testing ability, the grade could be 
among ND students. Everyone knows Bruce Springsteen is one of them, but no one seems to know who else. Finding those out is impor­tant to avoid having another outdoor lottery in freezing weather. It also should avoid having to give students an excess of bleacher seats. 
Third, when a high-demand concert does come to the ACC, change the lottery system! 
One ofthe flaws ofboth the old and new 'llet­hods described above is the wait . . . and wait ... and wait involved. Seniors will recall the bungled Bruce Springsteen lottery of December I980, in which students sat in Stepan Center on the study day before finals for up to five hours -for bleacher se:J.ts or no scats at all. 
This leads to the obvious question (and answer) on solving this: Hasn't anyone who works at Student Union ever heard of the computer? 
After that lottery, I wrote an article in The Observer (January 16, 198I) explaining how Student Union could run big lotteries using this novel device. The method is similar to that adopted in I98I by the Services Commis­sion for its away football game lotreries: stu­dents sign up for several days, listing name and ID number, and then the entries are fed into a computer. It will then spit them out in ran­dom order. The list then could be posted in several convenient LaFortune locations. 
And fourth, end preferential treatment in lotteries for anyone not direct~y involtled with the process. It has come to my attention that, more often and more blatantly than in other years, Student Union and Student Government people have been abusing their privilege ofpreferential concert tickets. 
They ask for seats closer than ever to the front row; at least in the past, they were more discreet in choosing ticket locations. Only those people who have something to do with the process -the Concert Commissioner, the people helping run the lottery and sell tickets come to mind immediately -deserve such a fringe benefit. Everyone else -enter the lottery like your fellow classmates. It's no wonder that students with decent picks (by past standards) ended up in Section 7 or I I 0. 
Supposedly, some measures are being taken to make things run more smoothly in the future. But as South Bend is not a popular stop for most acts the ND/SMC community wants to see, wiU the Billy Joel mess -which made that Springsteen one seem like it was perfect -be forgotten by the next time? Let's hope not. 
Tim Nee~y, a 1983 Notre Dame graduate, currently lives in South Bend. An Observer columnist for several years, he is currently working on a book detailing the history of Notre Dame basketball. 
drastically lowered. 

By viewing the effects ofthe exam proposal, it is dear that it only puts the Notre Dame stu­dent at a disadvantage. 
Kelly McCloskey 

ND-SMCties 
DearEditor: 

The thought of being a freshman at Saint Mary's College, located right across the street from the University of Notre Dame, had me ecstatic throughout the summer. 
Upon arrival, I found the reception from both schools rather cordial at first. However, by the second week ofschool! was dubbed a "SMC Chick." 
I've heen wondering since that day why 
~ aA&Jl 
\ 

OJL JfV .,. 
~ 
· Saint Mary's students are stc.-cotyped and why a rivalry which really shouldn't exist, stews between girls from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 

I thought both schools formed one Chris­tian community in which anybody and everybody could be friends. 
The lao;t thing a freshman from either campus needs is rejection. Each time I step on the Notre Dame campus I feel like an invader. This frivolous prejudice held hy girls from both campuses should be cast aside. Just be­cause I attend Saint Mary's instead of Notre Dame does not mean I am "stupid" or "incompetent." 
It is about time these two institutions try to fortify, instead ofsever, a bond among the stu­dents. We have so much to offer each other if only we would take the time. 
Name withht'ld upon request 
The Observer~~ Editorial Board Department Managers 
Editor-in-Cbief.... .................David Dziedzic Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen 1'. 0 /lux (j. .\'ulrdh/1/ll'. 1.\ ·16 5'i(J (.!I 'J) .!J'J· 53fJ3 Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe Controller ...............................................Alex Szilva~ 
fbi' OIJsl'rt'l'r i~ thl' IIHkpt"ndnll Ill'\\ ~Jl.lper puhlhhniiH the 'rmkn!~ of thl' I ni· Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Advertising Manager .........................Jeanie Poole HT~it\ of :-.;otn· I >anw du l.ac and 'o.1i11t .\l.1n ·~ <:olkgc It doc~ not ncn·ssarih rdln:t Neu•s Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto the polil'il'~ of !Ill' adminiMration ol l'ithn in~titution. The nl·w~ i~ rl'ptlrtl·d a~ ac· News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Systems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams t·ur:ltdl· ami a~ ohjtTtin·h a~ po~~ihk l n~ignnl cdiroriab rqJrc~t"nt the opinon ofa Saint Marr's Editor .......... .......Anne Monastyrski majority ofrlw hlitorial Board. Commt'lllarit·~. kun~. and tht· ln~idt· Column prc~t"nt Sports Editor ........................ ........Michael Sullivan 1h<" ,·kw~ of their author~. <:olumn ~pact" i., aLJilahk 10 all lllUllht"r., ol rht·communit). Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher Founded November 3, 1966 .llld !hl' frt"c cxprn~ion of' arying opini<Hl~ on c:unpu~. through lettn,, b cncouragt"d. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton 
Photo Hditor..........................................Scott Bower 





Showcase 
Friday, December 9, 1983 -page 9 

Letters to a Lonely God 

Applause! Applause! 
crossesin the cemetery bySt. Mary's 
lake. How longdoes it take in heaven to say hello to everyone? Do you 

by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 

F
speak to God first, before shaking atherJohn Reedy, C.S.C., publis­Lady is watching. The Fat Lady hands with your family? Or do the her ofAveMaria Press and assis­belongs with the last ones ofthe saints gather to meet you on the tant rector ofCarroll Hall, died last Gospel who represent Christ. John shore, so that they can lead you in Friday. At dinner on Sunday, Father Reedy, for me, took the place ofthe like a freshman being brought to see Mike Murphy asked, "Are you going Fat Lady. He was Peter Pan and the the rector? It shouldn't be searcy, to write aboutjohn in The Ob­Homeless boys clapping for Tinker should it, going to sleep in death, seroer?" I answered, "I hope not." Bell. He was the appreciative when you know you will wake in the Griefbecomes so public, as though audience which kept the soft-shoe morning to the sight offamiliar you were showing off, when you dancer going. He was my first and faces? The hardest part ofdying may writeofthedead. Yet, in twenty-five last critic; because he was so unfail­be that there is no chance ofwriting years ofwriting, I always wrote with ingly interested, he was probably a column about it later. The mystics •THEATRE john Reedy in mind. He was the the most valuable critic. who have visited heaven always say critic, seen out ofthe corner ofmy Reedy, as a lifelong friend, under­that words are inadequate to "The Investigation," a powerful docu-drama based on the eye, whose approval I was seeking. stood the kinds ofexperience that describe the experience. It's hard to transcript from the trial of21 officials ofthe Auschwitz concentra­No one can take his place as the go into writing; he was a writer him­get enthusiastic about eternity as tion camp, continues tonight and tomorrow night at 8 in the CCE. faithful reader. I am writing this be­self Last year I asked him, "John, you imagine it while living in an im­The play, by Peter Weiss, is being presented by the Notre cause his departure is so why do you write?" He said, with a perfect world. john Reedy, like Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre. Admission is $3 for the general public overwhelmingly on my mind. grin, "Because ofour egos." He un­others before him, has stepped into and $2.50 for senior citizens and Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
john and I were together as semi­derstood the pain underlying the an adjoining room, and closed the munity members. Call 284-4626 for more information. narians; he was ordained two years carefully chosen words. Once, when door behind him. At the hour ofhis The South Bend Civic Theatre continues "The House ofBlue ahead ofme. As editor ofAveMaria my life was chaotic, and john was in death, he was joined by two other Leaves," today and tomorrow at 8:30p.m. in the Firehouse Theatre. magazine, he published a number of a position ofauthority, he con­members ofHoly Cross, including For reservations call 234-5696. my early pieces, including the very tributed to the pain, and I went Brother Kieran Ryan. It's impossile first article. He encouraged me to through a period ofmistrusting him. to imagine the joy ofthe family write. praising my style for having a He told me I should expect no spe­reunion. •MUSIC special touch, or infuriatingly cial favors because he was my friend. At the funeral services, I felt 
Barry Snyder will present a piano concert Sunday at 4 p.m. in thechuckling as he rejected the junk. I I never expected special favors, and jealous ofthe ministers who of­Annenburg. Snyder, who has studied with V.M. Sokolov and Cecilemust have written more than a mil­I felt he was unfair. I never wanted to ficiated, as though they were closer Genha.rt. has appeared with the Atlanta, Detroit, Houston and Na­lion words in my lifetime, andjohn, I work for him as a young editor, be­toJohn than I was. On a list ofjohn tional Symphonies. He first achieved international prominence inthink, saw most ofthem. He read ar­cause he would have been a tough Reedy's best friends, there were 1966, winning three prizes at the Van Cliburn competition.
ticles I neverdreamed he would see; boSs. He mellowed with the years. probably many names ahead of Two Notre Dame bands will present a jazz concen tonight at 8 in occasionally, because of him, Ob­He would have become a beautiful mine, though we were scarcely Washington Hall. Admission is free for NDISMC faculty and students,seroer pieces would be re-printed in old man, if he had lived He was one competing. Reedy gave them good S 1 for other students, and S 2 for the general public.

national publications. He talked of ofthe youngest ofour elders, wise advice, exchanged stories, per­Alessons and Carols Service, conducted by Raymond Sprague,publishing a book ofmy writings, and compassionate as a leader formed as an elder, made them feel will be held Sunday at 8 in the Church ofLoretto.

and kept a file ofmaterials I had should be after being blessed by cared for. Probably he didn't give authored after I told him I never suffering. them an identity; that's what I owed kept copies of things I wrote. Membership in a religious com­him: he gave me an identity. He said, 
•ART

"Applause! Applause!" is the name munity gives you many brothers in "In what you do best, when you do it ofthe game. The old vaudevillian Christ; it means you make many trips well, you have a special gift which An exhibition ofalmost one-founh of Rembrandt's entire etched takes the center ofthe stage and to the church to saygoodbye to con­gives excellence to your work." wock will be on view at the Snite Museum beginning Sunday and shuffles through his dance routine. freres. One funeral is like another, How beautiful it is to have a critic continuing through january. The exhibition covers vinually all the He'll perform until his dying breath but all deaths don't leave you feeling who praises you so highly. biblical narratives which so engrossed the great Baroque artist in his if the audience encourages him. The so exposed to life. Who else will un­graphic and painted work. The etching are from a private collection dying Tinker Bell revives when she derstand so well ofcare asJohn did? Life buns quite a lot when you and comprise numerous brilliant impressions, rare states, and coun­
lose your cheerleader. On behalfof

hears the clapping. In Salinger's Who else will keep me honest with terproolS ofsome ofthe subjects. The public is invited to an opening story, Zooey tells Franny that the his grin and ironic chuckle? all who miss him, I wish he hadn't session Sunday at 1 p.m. left us so soon. 
Miss Manners 
show must go on because the Fat At Mass, I think ofthe white Exhibitions oflithography by Currier and Ives, painting and grap­hics by Douglas Kinsey, and fundamental concepts in art are now on display in the Snite. Photographs by Steve Prinster are being ex­hibited in the Isis Gallery ofthe An Building.


Throw guests 
•MASS 

The Masses this Sunday in Sacred Heart Church will have the following celebrants:

a metaphorical towel 

Fr. Joseph Walter, at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil) Fr. George Wiskirchen, at 9 am.
quette rules ofthe past never had to Fr. Daniel]enky, at 10:30
deal with a multi-independent per­

by Judith Martin 
Fr. Danieljcnky, at 12:15
son household. Can you please provide some ground rules? Dear Miss Manners -Please dis­constantly looked like a fifth Gentle Reader -Oh, yes, they 

•MOVIES cuss houseguests who visit bedroom and was unusable as a did, but the establishments were roommates. Out offinancial neces­living room. called boarding houses, and they Shenanigans is sponsoring a night ofChristmas movies, today and 
sity, four ofus share a townhouse. Guests III and IV didn't seem to had a resident owner who made 

tomorrow at 7, 9, and 11 in the Engineering Auditorium. Each We all have our own bedrooms; the realize that we were cooking in­showing begins with carol singing, followed by the cartoon "Woody
rules and enforced them or ejected other two women share the full bath dividually, and acted shocked when people who violated them. You will Plays Santa" Next is the old favorite "The Uttle Drummer Boy," a 
offthe master bedroom. I share the I didn't share my dinner.(I didn't model-animation about a young boy who follows the three kings to
have to do this cooperatively, as Bethlehem, where he plays his drum for the infant Christ. Finally, the
hall bath with the man who is our have enough to share.) They also equals, which is harder, but as you fourth roommate. made no attempt at all to be quiet in have managed to put together a 1935 version of"Scrooge," the screen production ofCharles Dick­
ens' novel in which a miser is reformed by the Ghosts ofChristmas,
We live quite independently of the mornings, although they knew I smooth household in other respects, will be shown. Admission is S 1 for the three movies.
each other, rarely go out orsocialize was on a schedule that should have Miss Manners is confident you can with each other, but the household allowed me to sleep an hour longer. accomplish this. 

"Senso," a 1954 Italian ffim, is tonight's Annenburg Auditorium movie, to begin at 7. The film is a lavish staging ofan ill-fated
runs quite smoothly. We all split the I felt they thought Iwas somewhat of What is throwing you off is the rent and divide all the household ex­a co-hostess. pseudo-social relationship you feel 

romance between a noblewoman and a youngofficer ofthe Austrian army occupying Venice in the 1860's.
penses. We share a living room with Guest V tried to be helpful, and toward the guests, who have thus in­halfbath, a dining room turned even attempted to help me out be nocently atoused your ire. Miss study area, and a small kitchen with a removing dishes from my bedroom Manners rather pities them, warily 
•MISCELlANEOUS 

table that scats three. and putting them in the dishwasher. creeping about, dripping with Thing.-; are fine until we started Since these included my eat's water anxiety to be out oftheir hosteS.j's The seniorclass Christmas Cocktail Party begins tonight at 6 in the getting houseguests. bowl and my favorite mug, neither way, oaly to stumble into yours. Monogram Room ofthe ACC. There will be dancing, a cash barfrom 
What are the hostess's respon­ofwhich I ever put in the dishwas­Throw them a metaphorical 6 to 10 p.m., a gift raffle and give-a-ways by Santa Tickets are S3. sibilities toward both the guests and her, it was a puzzle to figure out towel, will you? Tomorrow the seniors will join for Christmas Carols and tree trim­the roommates? What are the where they were. Draw up some rules about how ming at Marian Hill Retirement Home at I p.m. "roommates" responsibilities? And Ifthese were in-laws, I'd feel cer­much hospitality--including The junior class Christmas party will be held tonight at Haggar how should guests act? tain responsibilities. Ifl really were a telephone time, bathroom assign­College Center from 9 to 1. Tickets are S1. 
Here arc some ofthe situations co-hostess, I'd know how to act. ments and food suplies--each ofyou The Graduate Student Union has also planned a Christmas party that have occurred: Since I'm not, I don't know the del­has to offer your guests. Ifyoa print for tonight from 7 to 12 in the Banquet Room ofthe CCE. Father Hes­Guest, I and II "didn't want to be icate differences between rudeness them and either hand them out or burgh will join the party, which will include dancing, food and a half 
any bother" to their hostess, and so and being straightforward. Separate­{lOSt them, each ofyou can apologize price cash bar. Admission is S2. would not use her bathroom, but in­ly, these problems aren't very big. to her guests, pleading their The Student Union is sponsoring a shopping t£ip to Chicago, stead used the hall bath and those But I'm totally fed up by now. My cooperation in placating an un­leaving Sunday at 9 am. from the Library Circle. Donuts and soda "towels already out." They left the roommates either can't or won't reasonable, fastidious :md strict will be provided. Tickets are on sale at . the SU record store for S5. living room sofd bed continually suggest anything about making sure landlady who remains secluded in AGuadalupe Fiesta will begin Sunday at 11 with a Spanish Mass in open and their suitcases and per­we aren't constantly imposed on by the att~c unless her wrath is aroused. the Farley Hall Chapel, after which there will be a Chili Lunch in the 
sonal things strewn about so that it guests. What should we do? The eti-(c) Feat:tre:> Syndicate. 1983 Center for Social Concerns. 



Sports Briefs 
The Notre D3.ne Sailing teanJ. is looking for 
sailors with big boat racing experience to sail in the Kennedy Cup next spring. If interested, contact Chris Hussey at 283-11 50. -The Observer 
In interhall basketball action, scores of 'A' 
league games were: Off-Campus 44, Carroll 42; Grace 53, Pangborn 52; St. Ed's 40, Flanner :36. In '8' league action: Morrissey 46, Dillon 19; Grace 54, Fisher :38; Zahm 45, Flanner 42; Alumni 59, Morrissey 50; Keenan 5.3, Dillon 4.3; Grace 51, Howard 48; Holy Cross 66, Off­Campus 5 I. -The Obsen,er 
Stepan Centerwill be closed during exam week. -The Obsen1er 

Frid.ay, December 9, 1983-page 10 
TheNotre Dan1e-Michiganwomen's basketball game tonight will be shown on television on a delayed broadc~t. The game, which begins at 7:30p.m., will be aired on WSJV-TV ( Ch. 
28) on Sunday from 4:30 to 6 p.m. The telecast is sponsored by First Source Bank. -The Observer 
. Anyinterhallfootball equipmentthat has 
not been returned yet should be returned before Wednesday. The NVA will bill those who have not turned in their equipment by that time. Remember that inflation has affected the price of football uni­forms as well. -The Observer 
,~~~~~~~~, 
f  t  
f  t  
f  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  Buy  t  
t  

Observer:
I t 
'"'...-.~"" ..........-dst 

t t t t t t 


The Obsen1er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor ot LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor ofHaggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 
p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Frida.y. tkadline for next day clas· sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid, either in person or hy mail.



Classifieds 
Charge is I 0 c•ents per seven characters per day. 
NOTICES 
PRO·TYPE. 12 yrs. expenence. Spec1ahzmg 1n dissertations, manuscripts. theses. and student papers Call 277·5833 for rates 
TYPING 277·8534 after 5:30 
HALF PRICE! .50 off! $2.50 off! 56'o off! Coupons 1n the yellow pages of your Campus Telephone Directory! 
GERRY FAUST IS NOT A MAJOR COL­LEGE FOOTBAU COACH. 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••u ................... 
DANCING! 112 PRICE DRINKS! FOOD! FATHER HESBURGH! ALL AT THE GRADUATE STUDENT • UNION CHRISTMAS PARTY. ONLY 2$ FOR THE GALA GRADUATE EVENT OF THE YEAR. 8·t2 PM. FRI. DEC 9. CCE. 
CHRISTMAS NAZZ Th1s Sat. night at 9 PM 
GERRY FAUST-PLEASE DO EVERYBODY A FAVOR AND RESIGN! DON'T HURT NO. 
JACKIE WILSON SAID Wilson Dnveawayl Cars to all poonts 1n USA. only 20$ and you piCk up car on Chicago. Call 
• 288-7060 
ATTENTION NO STUDENTS · IN· FONET. the long d<stance student telephone network, w1U be conducting early s1gn-up today from 9am·4pm in the lower level of the LaFortune Student Cen­ter. Student billing num-bars WILL NOT 
WORK after Dec 31. SIGN-UP TODAY· AVOID THE LONG LINES AT REGISTRATION 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: A gold algnet ring with the Ini­tials BSA. -nDillon and Alumni on Friday Nov. II. H found call Beth 
214-4030 
LOST: NAVY BLUE NYLON MEN'S JACKET, SIZE LARGE, SAYS "MOUNTAIN" ON IT. REWARD. CALL 8854. 
LOST: Amethyst ring at Lew<s Hall Formal t 2/2. Great sentimental value Please call6289 
HELP! someone piCked up my light brown gloves w<th wool limng at the library on 1 1 · 
30. P1ease call paul at 164711 you found them. 
FOUND: A Silver hand held Digital Clock 1n a brown case, Fnday ntght at Farley's Red and Green Party To cla1m please call Patrick at I 754. 
LOST: Blue Denim Jacket Last seen in hallway with other coats at St. Ed's party Saturday mght. VERY JMP'T Please call PATTI at 6825. Noquest1ons asked. 
Lost·Woman's gold watch. Bet. Farley and O'Shag on 12/5. If found. PLEASE CALL6881 
lost key ring with approxtmately 8 keys on it. if found, please call 3270. handsome reward! • 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF EYEGLASSES in a gray glasses case c n Fnda y, December 2 in the CSC bu<lding or North Dining Hall 'Or somewhere 1n between.•If found, please call Debb1e at 6751. 
I LOST A RED, V-NEC.K, IZOD SWEATER AT ALUMNI'S CHRISTMAS PARTY ON SATURDAY THE 3RD OF DECEMBER If you have the sweater, please call 7374. 
LOSTI Brown tweed English cap. Last seen Thurs. 12/1 in 34 t 1n Oshag. Great spiritual value. Please call Ed at t542. Thanks. 
Found: one red/white mitten in or about Nicki's. Behaved to belong to someone in Walsh? Inquire wrth<n 444 Morrissey. 
Lost: A NAME-to the gentleman who was kind enough to make sure I got home friday night from Pangborn·! have your coat but'not your name-call4390 
FOR RENT 
......... MOVING OFF CAMPUS? Next Sam. or next year -call us first. Tom or Louise McGann 277·346t or 2722-9299 
3 BR HOUSE FOR RENT. EXTRA CLEAN. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD. GAS HEAT AND WOOD STOVE, FUR­NISHED. $350. 272·9581 AFTER 5. GEOFF ND'75. 
Furntshed room and kitchen facilities St 25 (Mr. Garcia 282-2250) 
WANTED 
RIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK, SYRACUSE OR THE VICINITY AFTER FINALS CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME. 
Riders needed to ATLANTA or anywhere along 1-75 or 1-16 & 1-95 in Georgia. Leav1ng after finals. Call Alan at t 402. 
AM DRIVING TO JAX. FLA FOR XMAS, VIA 1-65, 1-75. CAN TAKE 2,3. LEAVE 12/22, RETURN 1/14. CALL4739. 
WANTED: Defensive backs lor game 
O.C. 29. No experience necea..ry. Apply football omce, ACC. 
Wanted: Dependable female to share hvtng expenses in furnished house 15 minutes from campus. $t50.00 per month includes utilities. Non-smoker preferred. Call 239-5930 or 291 ·9644. Ask for Brenda. 
NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR X-MAS BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARK8906 
ONE RIDER NEEDED TO HOUSTON: LEAVING EARLY ON 12/21. CALL ROB 8t02 
I need my car dnven back to S.B. from Pompano Beach, FL. after X-MAS break. It interested, call Dee at 233-577 t. 

Need ride to CLEVELAND t 2-20 after 4 pm.Call Pam 2989. 
NEED RIDE to NJ Mon night or Tues 12/19,20 LIZ 1267 
NEED RIDE to Md/DC 12-19.20 M.E. t266 
WANTED: FEMALE TO SHARE 2 BDR APT. JAN-r.1AY $137 & UTILITIES VILLAGE TERRE APT CALL 277-5168 ATER 5 PM. 
NEED RIDE TO D.C. FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 5 P.M. ON MON. 12/19 CALL MEGAN 4238 SMC. 
n~~d riel~ t~ D.C. ~iio Roanok~ ~r~~ C~~ 
leave t 2/21. Call M1ke at 3342 late at night. 
need ride to D.C. or Roanoke. Can leave 12/21. call Mike Skelly at 3342. 
DETROITERSII INTERESTED IN CHRISTMAS BUS? CALL MARY (4514) OR JOE (t t54) BEFORE TUESDAY 
Need nde to Columbus(Worthington) on Wed. Dec. 21st. Returning Jan. 16. Will share usual. David 3t27. 

Need a ride to PITTSBURGH. Can leave 12/21 AM. Mary t324 
NEED RIDE TO NORTH. NJ/NY AREA FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE MORNING, DEC. 21 PLEASE CALL JANET AT 4673. 
HELP NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH ON EITHER DEC. 1 9 OR DEC. 20 FOR BREAK. CALL 6833-ANN 
NEED RIDERS TO NORTHERN N.J. OR NYC FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK LEAVING SOMETIME THE NIGHT OF WED. THE 21ST. IF INTERESTED CALL JERRY AT 1 850 
I need 5 Depaul Tix GA or STU (together) will Pay$$$ call Monica 284-545t 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Accumulated criminal, civil, and corporate law books. Valued at $2,000. Will take best offer Contact Leon at 233­5705. 
FOR SALE: '74 yellow beetle, great mec­hanically, some ru;;t. $600, 277-1454 between 10pm & 12. 
TAKING THE MCATS THIS SPRING? STANLEY KAPLAN'S MCA T T COURSE BOOKS FOR SALE BEST OFFER CALL 284-5249 
LARGE HOUSE FOR SALE Near NO golf course. 5 bedrooms up, 3 baths. fireplace. carpets, garage and more. Fuel saver, low maintenance, warrenty. $64,000. 289-1687 
SHEEP FOR SALE CALL SHEEP­WOMANAT2912 
Atari 2600VCS video game w/accessories. Excellent condition. Price negotiable. Call John xt 160. 
I· TICKETS 
.......................¥""" 
DlioSPARATEL Y NEED TWO LIBERTY BOWL TIKS CALL 272-349t 
I NEED UBERTY BOWL TICKETS! CALL JIM AT x1772 AFTER 8pm. 
PERSONALS 
Give that someone special a Xmas gift they'll never forget. Order a "Holiday Tuck In" available thru Regina Hall at SMC. Christmas Bazzar. 
PLEASE send the holy roller back to Moeller. 
MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GOD!! I MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GODIII MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GODI!I MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GOD!!I MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GOD!!! 
satisffed? 
Send friends posters for X-masl On sale now. 
Dining halls at dinner. Dec. 5-Dec. 9. 
Don't miss out on the Fine Arts Poster 
Sale~ 
NEED TO GO X·MAS SHOPPING?-A BUS TO CHICAGO ON DEC. 12 WILL BE LEAVING AT 8:15 RETURNING AT 6 
P.M. BUY TIX AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES FOR$9.00. 
YO AMMO· JUST WANTED TO WISH THE BEST THING IN MY LIFE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY. SO HAPPY BIRTHDAY, PAULl I LOVE YOU ·LYNN 
Looking for a job next semester? Make friends and earn respect in The Observer Production Department doing latenight layout work. A limited number of paid positions are available. Work schedule will be planned before Christmas break. so apply soon. Stop by the LaFortune office for an application and more info. 
ERIC· You said you wanted to see your name in print-here rt is-it looks good, and so do you-1 miss you loads and love you even morel I guess I'll have to wait aneth~ er 2 wks. to show you-so look out! I LOVE YOU. Sheryl 
COMPOSmON EDITORS 
& ASSISTAitiTSI be there Sunday 12111 to choose your night to work for next semester. 7:00 in The Observer office. 
JUNIORS--JUNIORS--JUNIORS IN­TERESTED IN CHAIRPERSON FOR NEXT YEARS SENIOR TRIP? APPUCA· TIONS AVAILABLE IN STUDENT AC­TIVITIES OFFICE NOWI DUE BACK 12/12/83 
CHRISTMAS NAZZ is coming! This Saturday night 9 PM 
CI'IRISTMAS NAZZ! CHRISTMAS NAZZ! CHRISTMAS NAZZ! 
SANTA CLAUS IS COMING TO TOWN Monday 81 LaForlune and Haggar (SMC) 
We are Santa's elves LaFortune and Hag~ gar (SMC) Monday 
XXX XX 
xxxxxxxxxx 

XXX XX XXX)()( 
To the Colorado Kid, Li•a "Goldberg" our special roomie. Hey doll, we'll miss your Coke kicks, jell-o fetishes, (AH-H-H ha ha ha) laugh, tapes, quiet clogs. bright cheery alarm, prayer-time Teddy, but most of all your chairs. Take care in Denver· OH HAPPY t 9th BIRTHDAY! (better late than never) Love, The Pent­house Quad(now triple) Anne. Deb and Sheryl 
LISA KENNY-Bon Anniversarre! 
SUE SCHWEINBERG WANTS TO LOSE IT. DONNA MAUS WANTS TO FIND IT. THEIR ROOMATES DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL SUE AND DONNA AT 8050 AND WISH THEM A HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
To the piano player who has my copy of "Linus and Lucy" (Is it Jeff? from Fisher?)-Give it back! -Bob (3283) 
DEAREST ANN, Hll HAPPY ANNIVER­SARY! IT HARDLY SEEMS POSSIBLE THAT WE'VE BEEN TOGETHER TWO YEARS. ONLY A SHORT TIME AGO, I WROTE A MESSAGE FOR OUR RRST ANNIVERSARY. ANNIE, THESE TWO YEARS HAVE UNDOUBTEDLY BEEN THE HAPPIEST AND MOST FUN­RLLED YEARS OF MY LIFE. YOU ARE TRULY A WONDERFUL INDIVIDUAL WE MAY BE SEPARATED BY 015­TANCE NOW, BUT OUR HEARTS AL­WAYS REMAIN TOGETHER. WE HAVE A FANTASTIC WEEKEND PLANNED SO LET'S POP THE CORK! LOVE AL­WAYS, YOUR BOB 
TO THE LIMP THROAT ENGINEERS WHO CAN'T GET STIFFIES. I AGREE WITH MR. SCANLON ABOUT PITCH­ING A TENT IN D-6 IF THEY TAKE AWAY LIOUOOR ARE TIRED OF ABUSE DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT! TRY SOMETHING CRAZY LIKE HAVING A BEER! MAYBE GET A STIFFIE! BUT DON'T RAG ON MY BUD· DY AND COLLEAGUE D.J. JUST BE­CAUSE HE HAPPENS TO BE AN HONEST PERSON! OH, AND ANOTH­ERTHING.IKNOWTHATYOUTHINKIT WOULD BE PRETTY CRAZY TO CALL 
D.J. AT 2 A.M. TO WAKE HIM UP AND GET BACK AT HIM, BUT DON'T BOTHER, 'CAUSE HE'LL STILL BE AT THE BARS. KEVIN SPAHN 
Hey Small Sow' Horn How's 'Big-G?'' Guess Who! 
Attention all ND/SMC females: We are proud to announce the opening of the Pleasure Chest (mid-west) in 305 Morris­sey Hall. Stop by and see the birthday boy,Tom. It is an experience you tllill never forget! 
VITO· SO YOU'RE 19?' COOLNESS. HAVE A BUD? OH ABSOLUTELY! OR PERHAPS CANADA DRY CHAM­PAGNE? HOW'D YOU GET THE WELT ON YOUR FOREHEAD? RUN INTO 1\ WARDROBE. BY CHANCE? YOUS ARE THE ONES THAT ARE FLIPPY! BEWARE OF LATE NIGHT CALLERS· NEXT TIME THEY WON'T BE WEARING PAJAMAS' TIME FOR A BIRTHDAY BEDTIME STORY...NOW RUDOLPH. HE WAS A POOR LITTLE THING. HAVE A WONDERFUL. TERRIFIC, GREAT BIRTHDAY! REMEMBER: IF YOU CAN'T FIND YOUR WAY HOME, LOOK FOR THE GOLDEN DOME. LOVE AND KISSES· SAND M 
BE A PART OF THE CHRISMAS SPEC­
TACULARIIII ON FRI. & SAT. 12/9 & 
12/10 SHENANIGANS WILL BE 
SPONSORING 3 MOVIES AT THE ENG. 
AUD.(SCROOGE 

THEORIG. 
, WOODY PLAYS SANTA, & THE LITTLE 
DRUMMER BOY) $1 AND YOUR X-MAS 
CHEER GET YOU IN(7, 9:t5, & 11 :30). 
WE'LL BE CAROLING BEFORE EACH 
SHOWING. AND DON'T MISS OUR 
CHRISTMAS CONCERT AT CHATAU­
QUA ON SUN 12/11 AT 8 PM(ALL YOU 
NEED TO GET IN IS THE CHEER, KEEP 
THEBUCK)I!I 

Italian Club Happy Houri Friday, Dec. 9 from 4:30 to 7:30 Pasquerilla East Party Room Everyone Invited! 
Please, please. please SAY SAY SAY you can give me a ride home for Christmas. I live in New Jersey (I can't help that) and I can't leave until6:05 p.m. on the 21st (I can't help that either.) If you can offer me a ride, please call Sarah at 131 1. Will pay the usual. 
ATTENTION! Come one, come all, bnng your dog. your ~at. your grandmother to ROOM 301 Lewis Hall (the dorm behind the dome) and help MIS5_ EILEEN CHANG celebrate her t 9th Birthday. For· mal dress is not required. Birthday kisses 
will gladly be accepted! 

Warning: Tigress on the loose -getting hungrier by the day. Anyone IMAGINING himself competent in a tamer's position apply at the Holidome TODAY 
THE MEAN. MEAN. FOURTEEN. 
Pat Griffin is a man-god! 

PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS SIGNUPS: SUNDAY, DECEMBER 11, 7:00-a:OO P.M. LAoFORTUNE UL THEATRE. FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED. 
GET YOUR CAN TO THE LEHIGH GAME. Nourish the dream of a holiday season without hunger. It's one small step ... but you CAN help others have a winning season. 
DETROITERS! INTERESTED IN CHRISTMAS BUS? CALL MARY (4514) OR JOE (1154) BEFORE TUESDAY 
Beware of SLOW DEATH It surlaces next week where you least expect rt. It's sub­versive, you know. 
Vito-Sorry the birthday message is a day late! I screwed up again. Happy Bi<lhday anyway. Love. M 
TO PAM,HAIWE GOT HIM,OIDN'T WE? AREN'T WE SNEAKY?-CHAS 
AnN~Fi6i<ii·ir:..6FiiiC36r:...wii·w,sH 
YOU A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR! MISS YA AND WE'LL LOOK FOR YOU AT THE B-BALL GAME IN JAN. LOVE, GOBBS AND MOE 
NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN N.J. OR NYC FOR CHRISTMAS JilREAK CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 6 O'CLOCK WED. NIGHT THE 21ST. WILL SHARE ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. CALL JERRY AT t 850. 
THANK GOD STUDENT UNION IS TAKING US TO MEMPHIS: BECAUSE 
G.F. SURE DIDN'TIII 
CAROLE and MAURIQUA: 
I'm dreaming of a whffe Christmas 
Just like the ones I used to know? 

Hey Chuck, Babyl Good Luck on exams! love, Big sis. 
To my buddies, the people who really 
count: 

Thanks for mak<ng this semester great 
You made things so much eas1er because 
you were always there whenever I 
needed ya'll. With a little help from my 
friends, I'll make it through.. I Love Y'sll 
Carola 
STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAMEIll 

Ia there any reason you shouldn't )oln the Junior Varsity Crowd, Mary's D~hards, half the population of PE, and other assorted personages in v1ew1ng the Lady Irish? 
Ofcourse not! 

So come on out Jo the A. C.C Jomghl al 7:30-that's alter the happy hours and before the parties-and get a taste of the best in Women's Basketball as the Irish women take on the University of Michi· gan. 
To the Lady Irish: Good luck in tonight's game Down those Wolverlneal 
Mary's Di-hards 
IRISH BASKETBALL, 7:30 TONIGHT! 
KARIN-I'M SORRY THAT I CAN'T GO TO CONNECTICUIT OVER XMAS. THERE WILL BE OTHER TIMES. I PROMISE. THANKS FOR BEING SO UNDERSTANDING. YOU'VE BRIGHTENED MY WHOLE SEMESTER. THANKS. LOVE, JIM 
Does the smell of newsprint ..nd your pulse racing? If so, you belong in The Observer Production Department. Stop by the office before it's too late 
UNBELIEVABLE OFFER!II My sister is moving and she needs someone to dnve her car to PHOENIX over break. WAIT. THERE'S MOREl This includes full ex· penses: gas, oil, food, HOTEL. and one FREE AIRPLANE TICKET back to South Bend! YES! IT'S TRUE!! If you are in­
terested, call Margie at 283· 7034. 

ELAINE MANCHON-MYTH OR MONSTER? 
To Sus1e Goldstein aka Usa Carol Kenny­lts word association timel DILLON-pencils, COLORADO-mouthful. NYC-naughty shops and change machines. AMERICANA HOTEL-morning moonshine!, BAG5-are great, ROSCOE-rip, RIP-roscoe, SISTER THERESA· liquid libations. WATER· MELONS-picture time, BOWLING· control melhod REALLY?-gail, honey moon-get psyched, GARLIC FRIED CHICKEN-you ain't never home. TYLENOL-Iet's take eight, LESBIAN FORMAL-publicity coordinator. CAVANAUGH SYR-I'm in the ones sent home to mom, KINGS CELLAR· up to 5th floor in a suitcase...Dec 9th your birthday Love from the hosebag and the JOizey·lte· 
e 

Happy Birthday Marta you hooper love from the Quint 
Scooter, Gonzo(check), Robin(yes M1ss KK) OK, this is what we are going to s1ng to Elizabeth! We wish you a Merry Christmas(hehl).. Love KK 
JEFF JANUS SO HOW IS ROME AT CHRISTMAS TIME? TOO BAD YOU ARE NOT AROUND FOR FINALS AND MASSIVE SNOWBALL BATTLES. WHEN YOU GET HOME IT IS MY TURN TO COOK. DO YOU LIKE CHICKEN WITH FRENCH DRESSING FOR A CHANGE? HAVE A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND WE MISS YOU LOADS! LOVE JODY P S ROME WILL NEVER BE THE SAME NOW THAT YOU'VE HIT IT. 
Well, something's the matter, But nothing gets done. Everyone's waning For a place in the sun. 

-Superlramp 
----~ ~--~----~----------------------------------------~---­
.The Observer Friday, December 9, 1983 -· page 11 
Referees strike avoided­
·Lysiak suspension upheld by NHL 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH, Fla. -The suspen­sion of Chicago Black Hawks star Tom Lysiak was upheld yesterday by the National Hockey League board of governors, averting a ppssible 
·walkout by referees who were said to be considering a strike if the penalty was reduced. 
The decision, the first order of business at the annual NHL winter meetings, was announced in a brief statement which said: "It is the board's decision that the suspension ofLysiak for 20 games is confirmed." 
"I guess I'll be playing a lot of 
·golf," Lysiak said as he was whisked out of the meeting room with his at­torney, Bill Martin. 
NHL game officials had threatened to take some kind of ac­tion if the board of governors sof­tened the penalty imposed on Lysiak by NHL President John Ziegler. 
Lysiak received the suspension Oct. 30 for hooking linesman Ron Foyt with his stick and left knee, causing the official to. fall to the ice. Foyt was not hurt and referee Dave Newell automatically suspended Lysiak. 
Supported by the Black Hawks and the NHL players Association, Lysiak obtained a temporary injunc­
• • . Lehigh 

continuedfrom page 16 
McCaffery plans for his team to run on offense and change defenses often, as the Irish do. Also look for Lehigh to play a lot ofpeople. 
"We have a different lineup every game," says Schneider. "We're trying to find the right combina­tion." 
As far as Notre Dame is con­cerned, the Irish need to work on an area where they have had con­siderable trouble -outside shoot­ing. In all three of their losses, the Irish have been hurt greatly by the lack ofa player who can consistently put in an outside shot like John Pax­son. 
Since the opening win against St. Joseph's, Notre Dame has not shot better than 45 percent from the field. Combine this poor outside shooting with the ineffective play of some of the front-line players in the first five games, and it is not hard to see why the Irish are 3-3. 
"Some people are really letting us down out there," says Irish coach Digger Phelps. 
The Lehigh game is the first of three consecutive games with some of the lesser lights on the schedule -Cornell and Valparaiso are the others. The three games will give Phelps an opportunity to experi­ment and find help for the Notre Dame offense. 

Fri. & Sat. Nite 

SMOKESTACK LIGHTNING BLUES BAND 
Featuring: 
Fresh Blue Point Oysters & 
Large Gulf Shrimp 

Jazz & Blues 6 nights a week 
Open Spm TUES. THRU SAT. 7pmSUNDA\" 

NBA Stand_ings 
tion from Cook County (Ill.) Circuit Judge George A. Higgins on Nov. 3, which allowed him to continue playing. 
Responding tq the injunction, the NHL board of governors amenqed Rule 67A io allow a player the rigln of appeal on a suspension to the league. Originally, the rule provided no appeal. It read: "Any player who deliberaiely strikes an official or deliberately applies physical force in 
any manner against an official shall be suspended 20 games." The 20-game suspension is the stiffest penalty in NHL history. 
Before the decision was an­nounced, league officials, Lysiak and representatives of the NHL Players Association viewed a videotape of the incident: 
"Twenty games . is a serious penalty, but at least we won a minor victory by getting the appeal process written into the bylaws," said Wendy White, legal counsel for the players union. 
A -union source had told The As­sociated Press that a number of referees and linesmen met informal: ly last ~eek and discussed options that might be available to them in the event Lysiak's suspension was reduced. 
A walkout was one of the options mentioned, said the source, adding there was definite support for a strike. 
Philadelphia Boston New York New Jersey Washington 
Milwaukee Atlanta Detroit Cleveland Chicago Indiana 
NBA Eastern Confarnnce Atlantic Division 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
15  4  .789  Dallas  '  
15  6  .714  1  Utah  
13  8  .619  3  Denver  
9  9  .500  5.5  Kansas City  
9  11  .450  6.5  Houston  
Central Division  San Antonio  
13  6  .684  
10  10  .500  3.5  Los Angeles  
10  10  .500  3.5  Portland  
7  14  .333  7  Golden State  
5  12  .294  7  Seattle  
4  15  .211  9  Phoenix  
San Diego  

Yeaterday's Results Phoenix 120, New York 97 Los Angeles 129, Kansas City 106 Golden State 130, Detroit 129 

Western Conference Midwest Division 
W L 13 6 12 9 11 9' 
9 11 -13 7 15 

Pacific Dlvtalon 
14 5 13 8 11 10 9 11 7 14 7 14 
Pet. GB 
.684 
.571 2 .550 2.5 .450 4.5 .350 6.5 .318 7.5 
.737 .619 2 .524 4 .450 5.5 .333 8 .333 8 



The Observer Friday, December 9, 1983-page 12 
Winter baseball talks 
Kuhn's term extended, trades made 
Associated Press 

NASHVILLE. Tenn. -Outgoing Commissioner Bowie Kuhn was given a second extension on his con­tract yesterday as major league owners. unable to find a successor, md formally for the first time at baseball's annual winter convention. 
The extension will keep Kuhn in the commissioner's office until March 1. 19H4. By that time. the search committee headed by Mil­waukee Brewers owner Bud Selig must find a new man. 
Trading activity, '1owever, ap­peared to slow down slightly, with owners and many general managers held up in joint session. 
Selig's committee made a report to the joint mc:eting of owners Thursday morning. 
Selig followed with a press brief­
ing, at which time: he: refusc:d to 
commc:nt on any specific namc:s. 
Selig's commc:nts followc:d rc:ports that originated Tuesday that White House Chief of Staff James Baker was the committc:e's top can­didate for the job. 
The Washington Post reported on Wc:dnesday. howevc:r, that an uni­
dentific:d source close to Baker said he was "99 percent sure" tht· White !louse official would turn down the olft·r even though Baker originally had been interested in the job. And Michael Deaver. another top aide to Prt·sident Rt·agan. said he was " I00 pt·rn·nt" certain that Bakc:r would not takt· tht· baseball job, if offered. 
"Wt· art· nowht·re near making any offer to anybody," Selig said. 
Tht· comract extension is the second for Kuhn. The commis­sioner's contract originally was schc:duled to expire last Aug. I S . .Just 
before that date:, however, the: 
owners at thc:ir summer meeting un· 
animously extc:nded the contract to 
Dec. ~I. 

The vote this time also was unani­mous. 
The first trade of the day was an­nounced in the afternoon. as the: Tc:xas Rangc:rs sent All-Star catcher Jim Sundbc:rg to the: Milwaukee Brewers for catcher Ned Yost and minor league pitcher Dan Scarpetta. 
That was the ninth trade of these 
meetings, one more than the num­
ber of deals made at the endre 
Hawaii meeting one year ago. 
A deal between Los Angeles and Oakland involving Dodgers outfiel­der Dusty Baker was pc:nding Baker's approval. Baker has a no­trade: clause in his contract. 
According to Baker's agent, jerry Kapstein, the A's want to use Baker as a designated hitter, while he wants to be in the field every day. 
Kapstein and Sandy Alderson, Oakland's vice president of baseball operations, talked Wednesday night and against yesterday morning by phone: and agreed to mc:et face-to­face at Kapstc:in's San Diego offices to continue negotiations. 
Kapstein said there: was no discus­sio~ ofmoney or a possible new con­tract for Bakc:r, who still has two years remaining on the: five-year. S4 million agrec:mc:nt he signed with Los Angeles in 1980. 
A similar hangup quashed a deal between Los Angeles and Texas for Sundberg last year. Sundberg has seven years left on a Rangers con­tract that pays him about S3SO,OOO per year, and the Dodgers were unable to satisfy the catcher. 
Sundberg wanted the length ofhis contract left intact, and Milwaukee apparently accomodated him. 
Sundberg, 32, is considered one of the finest defensive catchers in the game. He suffered at bat last year, however. hitting .201 with 28 RBI. In his best season offensively, Sundberg hit .27S with 64 RBI in 
1979. 

Yost, 28, who joined the Brewers in 1980, hit .224 in 61 games last season as Ted Simmons' backup. With the acquisition of Sundberg, however, Simmons will take over fulltime DH duties. 
In the day's second trade, the California Angels sent veteran shortstop Tim Foli to the New York Yankees for right-handed pitcher Curt Kaufman. Foli, 32, played with Pittsburgh World Series champion­ship team in 1979 and ~alifornia's division titlist in 1982. 
He played in 88 games for the An­gels last season, hitting .252. Kauf­man, 26, a reliever, pitched in only four games for the Yankees last season, spending most of his time with Columbus, where he was 6-3 with 25 saves and an ERA of2.75. 
Then, the Yankees pulled off a four-player deal with the Kansas City Royals. The Yankees sent first baseman Steve Balboni and right­handed pitcher Roger Erickson to the Royals for right-handed reliever Mike Armstrong and minor league catcher Duane Dewey. 
Balboni spent most of the season with the Yankees farm club in Columbus this year, where he hit 27 home runs. 
The Montreal Expos traded right-. hander Ray Burris, 4-7 last year, to the Oakland A's for minor-league outfielder Rusty McNealy. 

NHL Standings 
In thiS year's NHL playoff format. the top four teams in each diVISIOn make the playoffs. regardless of over­altleague standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams Division 
w L T GF GA Pta. Boston 18 7 2 131 83 38 Buffalo 16 10 3 114 107 35 Quebec t6 11 3 t46 t05 35 Montreal 13 15 1 t12 t t7 27 Hartford 11 13 2 98 107 24 
Patrick Division NY Islanders 18 9 2 127 102 38 NY Rangers 17 9 4 125 107 38 Philadelphia 16 9 3 120 99 35 Washington 13 15 2 102 111 28 Pittsburgh 6 19 3 87 1t9 15 New Jersey 5 21 1 78 127 11 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlalon 
W L T GF GA Pta Edmonton 21 5 3 171 116 45 Calgary 11 13 4 101 117 26 Vancouver 11 15 3 120 127 25 W1nn1peg 9 15 3 113 138 21 Los Angeles 7 16 6 118 140 20 
Norrie Dlvlalon Minnesota 15 10 3 136 128 33 Toronto 12 13 3 123 134 27 Chicago 12 15 2 103 114 26 St. Louis 11 14 3 111 123 25 Detroit 10 14 2 91 108 22 

ASSOCIATE WITH US



SEN tORS 
CcJnside.r an. Alterna.rive-; 
THE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
n~ HC~ is a .1 ~t:ttr po st~r4J L14te. eJpen"e~estre.ssm!J: 
0 S~rV'1ceto oth~rs os,·,..pl~ fi"in3 
oCom'"c.&n41 lifest~le oChrist4R.erplor4.t"on. Plcace ments 4"4ilc~le ••..: C.J.rado Spn·,..3s1Co. j Pho~ni.t Az..; Ha~lllard_,Cca.; Portl4..d.,Or.
1 


pEADUNf FOR APPLICANTS=FEBRUARY J,J,gq 
. (Si~J)

for Infor,..cat"oJt.1 cantcact ~3 AIUt. Roemer at the. Cen.ta-for Soc14J Concerns 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Carlos presents his STUDENT SPECIAL 
Bring in Coupon and receive $1.00 off any lunch or dinner entree ................................................................, .................................... Carlos Buck $1.00 of any entree Dinner Special 
139 W. Jlllc:Kialey Ave. 
Limit: one coupon per visit, 
JIUalaawaka. IDdlaaa 46545 
per personCoupon Good Anytime 

Ideal Christmas Gifts! 
Golf Bags Golf Hats Pickering Golf Sweaters 
and Shirts Titleist Golf Balls 
All items with Notre Dame golfing leprechaun 
Go f Pro Shop in the "Rock" 
7:00 am · 3:30 weekdays 'till Dec. 22nd 

.-:------------------------------------~--------------------------------­
The Observer 
U.S. hockey team set to take on Russians 
Associated Press 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. -In a little over I00 minutes of play against skaters from the Soviet Union, Team USA goaltender Marc Behrend has learned about perfection. 
"I have about five-and-one-half periods of experience against the Soviets," said Behrend, who will start in goal for the United States tonight in the opener of a six-game series against the Soviet Selects. "I don't really see them as anything dif­ferent. The only thing they do spe­cial is make plays very well. They don't shoot a lot. They make the per­
fect play. 
"The most success I will have is to 
stay back in the net a little, instead of 
coming out and cutting down the 
angle. With them, it's the trailer or 
guy on the wing who will wind up 
with the shot. Ifyou're not alert, he'll 
be shooting at an open net." 
Behrend helped the University of Wisconsin win two NCAA titles before joining Team USA, which will attempt to win the Olympic gold medal for the second straight time, in February at Sarajevo, Yugoslavia. He and Bob Mason of Minnesota­Duluth have shared the goaltending duties for Team USA since it began an exhibition tour in September. 
"Our goaltending has been out­
standing," said Lou Vairo, coach of 
the American squad. "Both Marc and 
Bob have improved and kept us in a 
lot ofgames." 
Like his teammates, Behrend is anxious to get into action against the Selects. 
"This is a really good time to play them," he said. "We should be com­ing around by this time; we should be about ready for a test like this. 
"I think it will be a good test for us. Ifwe do well in this series, though, it doesn't mean we can slack offor that we have our goal accomplished or we arc ready for Sarajevo. 
"If we don't do well, it shows us we just have to keep at it." 
After today's game at the site of the Americans' 1980 upset of the Soviets in the Olympics, the series will continue in Bloomington, Minn., on Sunday, then in Cleveland on Monday, Cincinnati next Thursday, St. Louis on Dec. 16, and Indianapolis on Dec. I8. 
The Selects will be comprised mainly of members of the Soviets' national B team, which Vairo calls "one of the six best teams in the world." But there will be several players on this tour who also will be in Sarajevo. 
"Some ofthem will be on their na­tional team, so it's not like a regular club team from over there that we're playing," said Behrend, whose pre­vious experience against the Soviets came in games against the Soviet \lt'Ings in Alaska last September. "I think we can gauge ourselves on how much work we still have to do after playing them. We ca measure ourselves. We know we're not 
playing their best team but they're 
not a bad team, either." 


NBA and referees talk, no progress apparent 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Representatives of the National Basketball Association and its locked-out referees met for several hour~ with a federal mediator for the second straight day yesterday. But no news came ou"t of the conference other than word from an NBA spokesman that "they met and will meet again tomorrow." 
"All parties agreed not to discuss the issues," said NBA public Rela­tions Director Alex Sac hare. 
Today's meeting will be the third straight day that the parties have met -the first time that has happened in the talks. 
The mediator, Ed McMahon of 
Washington, D.C., and the two sides in the dispute had met for three-and­one-halfhours on Wednesday. 
Richie Phillips, executive director of the union, said before the talks that the largest stumbling block to a settlement is back pay. He con­tended that since the union referees have been prevented from working at exhibition and regular-season games since Oct. 1, they're entitled to lost salary. 
Phillips has said the two sides reached a tentative agreement three weeks ago with an NBA negotiating team that included Comm;ssioner Larry O'Brien, who's retiring Feb. I, and his replacement, David Stern, but that a committee of owners rejected it. 

Fehr named as director of baseball's MLP A 
Associated Press 
KAPALUA. Hawaii -Don Fehr has been named acting executive director of baseball's Major League Players Association, it was an­nounced yesterday at the conclu­sion of the MLPA executive board's three-day annual meeting here on the island of Maui. 
Fehr, longtime legal counsel for the players' organization, replaces Ken Moffett, who was fired after I 1 months as the union's executive director in an apparent dispute over Moffett's cooperation with a com­mittee of club ownc;rs on a plan to deal with baseball's drug and alcohol problem. Some union officials felt that Moffett's involvement with a joint committee on alcohol and drug 
abuse was another indication of his "soft line" in dealing with the club owners. 
Moffett. who had two years left on a three-year contract when he was fired, had been the federal mediator during the two-year labor dispute which culminated in a 50-day players' strike during the I98I season. 
Marvin Miller, who had retired as executive director ofthe association last January, had been interim head ofthe union after Moffett's firing. 
Fehr declined to discuss any details of the annual meeting, saying all such matters are internal and therefore "not a matter for public disclosure." 
Promotion announced 

The Observer sports depart­ment announces the recent promotion ofJeff Blumb, a soph­omore Government/ALPA major from Robbinsdale, Minn., to the posttton of Assistant Sports Editor. Blumb. who previously served as a sports copy editor, will join Jane Healey who was named last spring. 
Friday, December 9, 1983 -page 13 
The 1983 United Way campain has a goal of $2,850,000. The campaign was scheduled to end Novem­ber 16. It's December now and the United Way is still in need of over $250,000 to reach the community goal and continue to sustain the vitally needed services of the agencies. Without the funds some services may not survive. Here at Notre Dame we interact with the United Way regularly. Many of us are in­volved with the United Way's Logan Center and through the Center for Social Concerns with other United Way agencies like the Red Cross, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, the Girl Scouts, as well as the Council for the Retarded and 
more. Many individuals and companies in our community 
have given generously-but many people are out of work and many businesses are not doing well. Students, faculty 
and staff at Notre Dame have reached the goal set out for 
the University. This ac­complishment is great! But those in need still need more help -as a member of the Notre Dame community can you find it in your heart to give $1, $5, $10 or $25 more to help those in need? Even if you've given, can you give a lit­tle more. help in this 2nd effort? If you haven't given yet please don't wait any longer. Every dollar is vital to those in our community who are in need. 
YOU CAN MAKE A MIRACLE HAPPEN... THE UNITED WAY 

United Way of St. Joseph County 
c/o Hall President (students) c/o Personnel Office (faculty, staff) 
name 

campus address 
$ __________



United Way 
Please respond by Tuesday December 13 amount 
~-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
·The Observer Fri~ay, December 9, 1983 -page 14 
... Michigan 
UCLA. Michigan is the type of team terparts. Vonnie Thompson will be 
continul!dfrom page 16 ­

that could cause some inconsistent on the c(mrt most ofthe game as the 
Bradc:tich will be joined at the for­play by Notre Dame. point guard, while: the other guard ward position by 'i-1 0 senior captain "We can't give anyone momen­spot will be filled by Lynn Ebben or Terri Soullkr. It is Soullier who does tum," says DiStanislao. "Michigan's a Laura Dougherty. Ebben has started most of the: rebounding for tht· Wol­running team that takes a lot ofshots the last two games, but a good verines. -a team that thrives on its own showing off the bench by Dougherty 
Bradetich and Soullier will be momentum." may get her more playing time. 
joined in the front court by a fresh-Recent history is on Notre-Dame's man center who stands 6-7 and In order to keep the mometum side, too. Starting last year, the Irish 
wdghs more than 250 pounds. away from Michigan, the Irish will 
have rebounded from losses very
Needless to say, sht· is not one: of the have to establish their superior well. After ·losing their first two last more mobile players around, hut if inside game right away. Center Mary year, they won nine straight. This she gets the: ball inside:, her height Beth Schuc:th, who has played two year, after losing their first two, theycould make things difficult for the strong games in a row, leads the beat UCLA. 
Irish. inside attack. averaging II points 
However, the Irish also could and seven rebounds a game. She will _Against Michigan, Notre Dame makt· life difficult for themselves. get support from Ruth Kaiser, Carrie will try to continue this history. A When they have: lost this year, incon-·Bates, Trena Keys, and Lavetta Wil­victory would help get the team rol­sistency has hurt them the most. In lis. ling as it faces some of the weaker the one game in which they played a It will be up to the Notre Dame opponents on the schedule in the 
consistent 40 minutes, they heat ! guards to stop their Michigan coun-next couple of weeks. 

Here's what your-teams are doing this weekend 
TONIGHT TOMORROW men's basketball ND women's basketball SMC basketball vs. Lehigh vs. Michigan at-Heidelberg 1:30 p.m. 7:30p.m. ACC Main Arena ACC Main Arena wrestling men's swimming at Olivet Nazarene lnvit. vs. Cleveland St.· 2p.m.
hockey men's swimming Rockne Pool
vs. Lake Forest vs. N. Illinois ND women's swimming
7:30p.m. ACC North Dome ?p.m. vs. Cleveland St. Rockne Pool 11 a.m. Rockne Pool 

Navy Medical Scholarships Available 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide: 
D Your full tuition, authorized fees and educational expenses D The cost of required books·and supplies D Rental fees for necessary equipment such as microscopes D A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please! 
Participation in the Navy Health Proffessions Scholarship Program does not involve any military training nor requires wearing of a Navy uniform. Your academic routine and lifestyle will remain the same as other medical students. 
Qualificaiions for this scholarship include: D Be accepted for the next entering class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or 
osteopathy D Be a U.S. citizen D Be physically qualified for a 
commission as a Naval Officer 
For more informatio~: Call Navy Medical Programs Officer Lieutenant a·reg Thompson TOLL FREE 1-800·382-9782. 

The ObKrver/Paul Citarelli 
Vonnie Thompson and her teammates will try ~o get Mary DiS­tanislaQ's basketball team back on the winning track tonight when Michigan visits the ACC at 7:30. For more on the game, see Mike Sullivan's story on the back page. 
i· ID4t1Kni!lllm oftl}t <trastle· i 
I · I 
1 '' II I 
1 minutes from campus 1 
I I 
I I 
I 
, J
L ____ 
I HairCut Shampoo 
-Blow Dry & Condition 
64533 Terrece Lane, South Bend (Across lrom 
Reg. $15·00 
Martin's on S.R. 23) 

Now $8· 56 with coupon 
1• w 6:30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons Th 8:30-8:30 'I I
Fr 8:30-6:00 

I
s 8:30-2:30 I Closed Man 277·1691 272-0312 .I I 
-··••••••-••••6.5Q_Savings •••••••••••••-·•..1 
IRISH GARDENS 
DELWERYPERSONNEEDED
. 

Must show finanCial need. 1 hr/night Mon -Sat Paid for time and for each delivery. Interested? See Office of Student Employment, 109 Ad Bldg. 






'JI['4(Jt~C3l~----------------------------------------Fr_hl_a_y_,_o_e_c_em__ P_a.g_e_1__
b_er_9_,_I_9_8_3___ 
A/?EN 'T YoU f:rUiS GOif<1'1o THE qll.ME? 

NOPE, W£ THOU(rHT 
I

WE'D CATCH 71ft .;.:oo 
10~ OVER /IT 


Bloom County 
The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Synd1cate, Inc. 12/9/83 All Rights Reserved 
UH... JE.ANS ... 

W£U..11t!JST UH •. MOR€: 
SAY... AU..1lil5 50CI<S ... li.ffi?A CAREFUL. UNPie:S... (1}f'l PREffiMTJON I Ool'.i ~ IMPRe.SSIV€..~,_-. I , ~ 

ACROSS· 29 Meritori· 1 Worry ously 5 Sheriff 33 Progeny of 
Dillon a sort 9 Bombard 34 Cries 14 Kind of derisively 
weed 35 -juvante 15 Wings 36 Peel 16 Hair· 37 Periphras· 
raising tic 17-von 38 Puny 
Bismarck 39 Unit 18 Membrane 40 Hprseshoe 19 Inspected, pieces 
to a yegg 41 With sweet· 20 Groundhog ness, in 22 Palestra, music 
for one 42 Pillages 23 Bide 44 Untied 24 Desire 45 Merely 26 Fine 46 Certain 
fabrics speed unit 
Thursday's Solution 
1219/83 

47 Discoverer 12 Legal ofN.Am. claim 
50 Supplies 13 Motherof for fire· Castor places 21 Malacca 
55 Idolize 25 Chi-chi 56 Foul· 26 Young fish smelling 27 True up 57 Romantic 28 Musical 
isle sounds 58 Removes 29 Labors 59 French 30 Creative 
river thoughts 60 Hero 31 Depart 61 Horse sound 32 Joined, 62 Producer as oxen 63 Transmitted 34 Tinseltown 
37 Ululate 
DOWN 38 Large 1 Deliberate wader 2 Dorothy's 40 Struggle 
dog forsuperi· 3 Outside: ority pref. 41 Puree 4 Clarinet 43 Needier or oboe 44 Wayupor 5 Singer down Johnny 46 City in 6 Island Idaho 
Eskimo 47 Bounders 7 Soapstone 48 Mid-east 8 Trees for gulf 
shipbuild· 49 Philippine ing knife 
51

9 Cutting Medley lines 52 Stow cargo 10 Home, poet· 53 N.C. col· ically lege 11 Scottish· 54 Delta Irish stuff 

Campus · 
•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Self· dual Einstein Manifolds in Dimension 4," Prof. AI Vitter, 226 CCMB . 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Films, "Little Drummer Boy," "Woody Plays Santa," and "Scrooge," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Shenanigans, $I 

•7 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Men vs. Northern II· linois, Rockne Pool 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs Michi· gan,ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, ND Men vs Lake Forest, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night FUm Series, "Senso," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Graduate Students Christmas Party, CCE, J2 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "The Investigation," Center for Continuing Education, 52.50 


Saturday, Dec. 10 
•8 
a.m. -Test, Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium 

•9 
a.m. -Thomas Merton Conference, "Thomas Merton Fifteen Years Later: The Dif· ference He Makes," Little Theatre 

•II 
a.m.-Swimming, ND Women vs Cleveland State, Rockne Pool 

•I 
and 3 p.m. -ND/SMC Dance Theatre, "The Princess and the Pea," O'Laughlin Auditorium, 50 cents 

•I 
:30 p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs Lehigh. ACC 

•2 
p.m. -Swimming, ND "Men vs. Cleveland State, Rockne Pool 

•7 
p.m. -Thomas Merton Conference, Haggar College Center, S5 registration fee 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Films, "Little Drummer Boy," "Woody Plays Santa," and "Scrooge," Engineering Auqitorium, Sponsored by Shenanigans, $1 

•8 
p.m.-ND/SMC Theatre, "The Investigation," Center for Continuing Education, $2.50 

•9 
p.m. -Christmas NAZZ, Christmas readings, carols, and plays, Cookies and Hot Chocolate, Sponsored by Student Union, Free 


Sunday, Dec. 11 
•12 
p.m. -Chili Lunch, Center for Social Con· cerns, $1 

•I 
p.m. -Opening Art Exhibit, "Rembrandt Etchings: The Biblical Subjects," Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery 

•1 
and 3 p.m. -ND/SMC Dance Theatre, "The Princess and the Pea," O'Laughlin Auditorium, 50 cents 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, Pianist Barry Snyder, Annen· berg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -SMC Concert, Lessons and Carols, Church of Loretto 

•8 
p.m. -Christmas Concert, Shenanigans, Chautauqua 


Student Union takes you to the 

LIBERTY 

BOWL 2-nights Ramada Inn $33 

South Bend--Chicago--Memphis bus Round trip Dec 27-30 $56 
·Sign up for fuli package ($89) or part at Student Union ticket office. 
Tonight is Import Night Sat. Night is "Clear the Cooler night" 
(Sat. Is our last regular night open before floats) 



Phelps' squad looks to get back on the winning track against Lehigh 
ByPHILWOLF between the. 3·3 Irish and the En-ketball. .\ports Writer gineers, who have a record of 0-4 Leading the Engineers on this year. floor tomorrow will be 6-6 junior 
!loping to bring its record above The Engineers, who lost four start­forward and captain Paul Wickman, the .SOO mark, the Notre Dame ers to graduation last year, will bring the only starter returning from last men's ba~ketball team will face a very young team, including a year's 10-16 team. He will be joined Lehigh University of Bethlehem, young coach, to Notre Dame this at the other forward spot by 6-5 Penn.. tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. in the weekend. This season marks the first freshman Seamus Dowling who is Athletic and Convocation Center. year that Lehigh coach Tom averaging just under seven points 
This will be the first meeting ever Schneider is coaching college bas-the game so far this year. Wickman and Dowling will get some support up front by 6-9 senior

Irishlooktorebound 
Terry Moran at center. "Moran has really established himself as a force in the middle this year," according

against rival Michigan 
to Engineer assistant coach Fran 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Michigan rallied from a 16-point McCaffery. 
Mark Murphy, a 6-2 sophomore,
Sports Editor deficit to get within a basket with 
will help run the Lehigh offense
less than a minute left in the game. from his guard position. His runningAfter being treated rather rudely On paper, this Michigan team 
mate at guard will be another fresh­
a~ visitors to Welsh-Ryan Arena by would seem to be improved over 
man, 6-1 Mike Polaha, who McCaf­
Northwestern Wednesday night, the last year's. Ten lettcrwinners return 
fery says "played well" in Lehigh's
Notre Dame women's basketball from last year's team. However, the 
13-point loss to Navy Wednesday
team will try to treat their visitors one letterwinner that did not return 
night and carries an 8.0 scoring
the same way tonight as Michigan this year, Peg Harte, averaged almost 
average. They will be supported by
comes to the ACC at 7:30p.m. 20 points a game and served as co­6-3 sophomore guard Mike
Mary DiStanislao's Irish hope to captain while only a sophomore. 
Androlewicz, who scored 22 points
even their record at 3·3 against the Judging from the team's early season 
in Wednesday's game and comes off
Wolverines. However, in order to do performance, her departure after 
the bench to lead Lehigh in scoring
so, they must avoid the type of of­her sophomore year has hurt the with a 12.0 average.
fensive battle that they had with team considerably. 
McCaffery affirms that the En­
Northwestern. Notre Dame's Without Harte, the Wolverines have a that gineers "will come to play" tomor­
strength since DiStanislao took over still powerful offense 
row, and says he doesn't think they
four years ago has been its defense centers around the guards. Sopho­
will alter their game style for the
and that defense will once again be more Orcthia Lilly and senior Lori Irish.
tested by the Wolverines and their Gnatkowski are the guards that will "The size factor will be a problem lbc Obsc=rvcr/Paul Lifarelli
fa-;t-paced, run-and-gun offense. direct the offense. Lilly was second 
Tim Kempton, shown here attempting a layup against UCLA, is
for us," he concedes, "especially at
"Our game with Michigan is al­on the team in scoring behind Harte 
one ofthe people that will need to be more productive tomorrow
the forward positions."

ways a good game," says DiStanislao. )a<;t year with a 13.3 average, while 
when the Irish entertain Lehigh tomorrow. For more on the game,
"They take a lot of shots and score Gnatkowski was also among the see LEHIGH, page II 
seePhil Wolfs story at left. 

on the transition game." scoring leaders as she averaged 7.4 
As the Northwestern game indi­points a game. cated, Notre Dame is sometimes vul­"They are a good transition game Home-and-home series nerable to a good transition game. team which has good outside shoot· The Wildcats' 1-3-1 trapping ing," explains DiSanislao. "Their defense gave the Irish guards a great guards are not afraid to drive to the 

Hockey team meets Lake Forest 
deal of trouble early in the second basket, either. half and helped Northwestern jump "What hurt us against Northwes­ByED DOMANSKY Forest. wing on the second line. He is out to a lead that it never lost. If the tern was our inability to control Sports Writer The series will mark the first teamed with sophomore Jeff Irish can control the tempo of the Anucha Browne (who scored 35 meeting between the two teams Badalich in the middle and freshman game and not allow Gloria Soluk's points) and our vulnerability to the As the first half of the 1983-84 since 1970. Notre Dame holds a 4-0 Tom Smith at left wing. squad to get the offense in high gear, transition game, especially with hockey season enters its final advantage. "We're hoping that Reilly will the Wolverines could be in trouble. guards driving to the basket and weekend, the Notre Dame hockey The Foresters bring a 5-4 record bring out the talents of the other 
Controlling Michigan's offense their 1-3-1 defense." team will attempt to extend its un­into the weekend's action. They two," Smith says. "They've been has not been too hard for opponents While the guards are very impor­beaten string and improve upon its have beaten Central States Cof­looking good in practice. They seem this year. The Wolverines have tant to the offense, it is a forward, already impresive 1 0-0-1 record. legiate Hockey League member Mar­to work well together." dropped both of their games so far, Wendy Bradetich, that has been The Lake Forest Foresters, the quette. Two more victories came In preparation for the upcoming losing first to Western Michigan and carrying the brunt of the scoring so team's third Division II varsity op­with a sweep ofWisconsin-Superior, series, the week's workouts have then to Central Michigan. far this year. Bradetich, a 6-0 sopho­ponent, will provide the challenge and another was picked up they split been highlighted by a lot of hard 
Add this start to a 4-24 record last more, averaged almost 11 points and for the hot Irish. a series with Division I representa­skating. The team has also been con­year, and it would appear that Michi­six rebounds a game la-;t year, but The non-conference match-up tive Air Force. centrating on intensifying its gan should be a pushover. However, this year she is averaging more than will be played as a home-and-home Two of the Foresters' losses came forechecking and on improving its tht· Wolverines do play Notre Dame 20 points a game. series. It begins this evening at the at the hands of Bemidji State, the overall offensive play. tough, as la~t year's 62-'H! loss to the Notre Dame ACC. Tomorrow, the team that last year finished first in "Workouts have been pretty dif­
the NCAA Division II final standings. ficult. We're getting the attitude that 
"Lake Forest is one of the peren­we must get going," says Metzler. nial Division II powers," says Notre "We'd like to remain undefeated, Dame coach Lefty Smith. "We'll have and this weekend won't be another our work cut out for us. We're Illinois or Northwestern-type expecting two good games." series." 
The only casualty for the Irish this 
The Lake Forest lineup features 
week is junior forward Steve Ely. Elymostly juniors who have played to­had been nursing a knee injury and,gether since their freshman season. 
on Tuesday, the knee finally gaveExperience, therefore, is one of the out. He will most likely undergoteam's top assets. 
arthroscopic surgery over the"They don't have great size. 
upcoming break. "Barring anyThey're mostly a finesse team," says problems, he should be ready to playsophomore Gary Becker, a transfer in the second semester," reportsplayer from Lake Forest. "They work Smith.
well as a unit because their coach Chapman continues to lead the(Tony Fritz) emphasizes the Russian team in scoring. He ha-; accumulatedtechnique of keeping guys together 32 points on I 5 goals and I 7 assists. 
with the same lines." 
Metzler, Parsons, and sophomore 
The top two Notre Dame lines Bob Thebeau arc all tied for second have undergone some restructuring with 19 points. Metzler ha-; I 1 goals. since last weekend's action. The Parsons nine, and Thebeau six. Soph­new first line features senior Adam omore Mark Benning is in fifth on Parsons at center, senior Mike the list with six goals and 12 assists. Metzler at right wing, and junior co­Freshman Tim Lukenda will start captain Brent Chapman on the left in the Irish nets tonight. He ha-; a 6-0­side. 0 record and a solid 1.88 goals 
The group first played together against average. Smith has not yet last Saturday and was responsible for decided on who will be between the all three Irish goals in the 3-3 tie at pipes for Notre Dame tomorrow at 
The Observer/Paul CifareUi 
St. Norbert's. Smith was impressed Lake Forest. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will put its un­that begins tonight at theACCat 7:30p.m. Tomorrow's 
with their play, and is looking for­Tonight's face-off is at 7:30p.m. in
defeated record on the line this weekend when it takes game will be played at Lake Forest. For more on the 
ward to a similar performance this the ACC. Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
on Division II power Lake Forest in a weekend series series, see the story at the right. 
weekend. students are admitted free with their 

Junior Tim Reilly is now the right student ID cards. 





