Irish Extra -page 9 
vor X"1.1II,:'IJO. 31 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1983 
Cardini1Ll Cooke dies of '~ancer at 62 
Associated Press handled daily administration after Cooke became critically ill in 
NEW YORK -Cardinal Terence August. Cooke, the archbishop of New York The appointment of Cooke's suc­and chief chaplain for 2 million Cat· cessor as archbishop of New York holies in the armed forces, died of was at least two months away, cancer Thursday after wee][S of according to the Rev. Peter Finn, suffering in which he declared life is archdiocesian spokesman. "no less beautiful when it is accom­He described the selection panied by illness." process as "consultative," in which 
Tributes poured in fron: the various church officials make world's top political and religious recommendations and the pope leaders, ranging from fundamen· makes the choice. talist Protestants to liberal Catholic The pope announced Cooke's bishops, from President Reagan to death to bishops gathered for a 
Pope John Paul II. world synod, then led them in 
Cooke, who was 62, died :n his prayer, the Vatican said. home behind St. Patrick's Catbedral Archbishop John R. Roach of St. at 4:45 a.m. after weeks ofpain from Paul-Minneapolis, president of the 
"acute leukemia complicati::lg a National Conference of Bishops and chronic lymphoma condition," a key supporter of the bishops' pas­according to the archdiocese. toral letter on nuclear war, called The Observer/Carol La11.1gier 
Cooke became the seventh arch­Cooke "a warm pastor, a man of 
Art Show 
bishop of New York and military quiet and deep holiness." publication exhibition. The Carpenter Paper Co. vicar in 1968, succeeding his men­"As military ordinary, his devo­Professors Len Mysliwiec and George Tisten look on sponsored the exhibition yesterday in the newart build· tor, Cardinal Francis Spellman. A tion as a pastor to the military was .a as they examine works of art at a graphic work in ing. year later, Cooke was elevated to significant contribution to the cardinal by Pope Paul VI, becoming country and to the church," Roach at that time the youngest cardhal in said. 

Revised party rules resolution 
the world. In life, said President Rtagan, Bishop Walter Sullivan, of Rich­Cooke "inspired us -with hi:; per· mond, Va., a member ofthe Catholic 
passes rectors; t<, stop 'drifters'
sonal holiness, his dedication to the peace group Pax Christi, described church, his devotion to his flock. Cooke as "a very kind and gentle By TRIPP BALTZ and MIKE year was reje<:ted by the rectors be­amount of money sections put into But, in death as well, he had for us a person. He had a real power of per· KRISKO cause of a problem with the wor­parties. special gift and a special inspiration. suasion through his wonderful News Staff ding, Hanner president Jack ~eiler The world has rarely seen a more demeanor." The major difference in the new didn't see any problem with profits moving display of the three ca:dinal The Rev. Jerry Falwell, leader of A revised Hall President's Council resolution is i1: only applies to men's being made on parties. "I don't think virtues than in the faith, hop•~ and the Moral Majority based in resolution concerning the charging dorms. The proposal no longer en­there will ever he a problem with love with which Cardinal Cooke Lynchburg, Va., said, "The world has of women for admittance to men's courages women's dorms to' throw profits being made <in parties or confronted and conquered death." lost a strong proponent for the dig· dorm parties was recently passed by more parties because it only covers Happy Hours in Flanner Hall he­
A panel of more than 30 bi:ihops nity of human life at a time when the rectors and presented to Vice­paying for the men's hall parties. cause section members spend he­and priests was expected to choose many clergymen are compromising President ofStudent AffairsJohn Van The new resolution provides a tween S200-250 on hall parties and Bishop Joseph T. O'Keefe, vicar their views." Cooke also was praised Wolvlear. means for enforcement. It stresses the guest list provides for about I00 general of the archdiocese, as ad­by television evangelists Robert The original party payment the issue that these are private men and I00 women. If each guest ministrator of the archdioces1:. He Schuller and Pat Robertson. resolution passed by the HPC last parties by statiing all men must be on pays a dollar. there is still no profit." a· guest list and every person must Fisher president joe Higgins said present a Notre Dame or Saint the same was true in smaller dorms. 
Mary's ID to be admitted. "The profit would he non-existent. Despite imJProving the clarity of Any extra .money would be mar­resolution, the debate on the issue ginal," he said. 
FAA application process begins 

for new s1tudent FM station 
ByJIMBASD..E too many media outlets to be the Pasquerillas it triggered the fire News Staff granted another. McDonnell alarms. pointed out however, "One more It is hoped that these problems 
The Administration has approved non-commercial outlet owned by will be bypassed when WSND hits the move of WSND-AM, 'lotre the university would violate no the FM waves. According to MeDon· Dame's student-operated radk> sta· regulations." Another possible nell, "The station will have an inde­tion, to the FM band, and the applica­problem centered upon Notre pendent transmitter of 300 watts. tion for a broadcasting license has Dame's inability to keep the station This will free it of the unreliable old already begun. operating during the summer. Sta· cable system. McDonnell estimates 
"The administration made: the tions are often required to broadcast that the new transmitter plus addi· decision to endorse the move last year-round or are denied a license. tiona! costs of switching to FM will spring and is l 00 percent behhd it," McDonnell remarked that many run the university, "anywhere from James McDonnell, director Gf stu­school stations are allowed to close 25 to 30 thousand dollars." dent activities, said. during the summer and raised the Station manager Brence does not 
The station, currently broadcast· possibility that Notre Dame would believe that the WSND format will ing on 6400 AM, is applying tD the allow other proprietors to occupy change. Based upon the current sta· Federal Communications Commis­the airwaves over the summer. tion research he believes that the sion for a license to broadca:;t on McDonnell echoed the view of WSND progressive rock format is 89.7FM. Brence when he said, "I foresee no what the students want but, "can't 
McDonnell, who is coordinating problem in getting the application get from any local commercial sta­the license application process, approved." tions." Once students can get believes that the application will be It appears that the primary clearer reception on FM Brence submitted to the FCC within a motivation behind the move to FM believes they will find WSND a more month. McDonnell, univ•~rsity was the low quality of reception on viable alternative to the commercial lawyers, consultants from W 'IDU, 64 AM. Currently WSND has no in· stations. and staff from WSND are workmg in dependent transmitter. Its signal is The AM 64 signal will be the meantime to complete the ap· taken into dorms by cables running abandoned but WSND FM and its plication procedure. According to through the tunnels under the uni­fine arts format will remain on FM station manager Chris Brence versity. The signal cannot be picked 88.9. The existance ofthe two Notre WSND is currently conducting an up outside of a building. McDonnell Dame stations, both with WSND as FCC required survey to examine, said that another problem was that call letters, so close together on the "What needs Notre Dame students the cables are, "old and brittle", dial will require a change in call let· feel WSND should fulfill." offering little or no reception in ters for the current WSND-AM. 
McDonnell pointed out thai two some halls. Brence said many possibilities were possible obstacles that might hinder There has been a plethora of under consideration but no al· the approval of the application have troubles with the old cables. For ex· ternative has been decided upon been removed. One concern was ample, it was once discovered that that the university already owned whenever the transmitter was on in see WSND, page 3 has not subsidled. 
Many halll presidents have expressed points of view on the proposal. Graoee president Pete DiC­hiara didn't think the proposal would increase the number of parties, but would increase the 
Many rectors are in favor of the proposal, however, some had their reservations. Lewis rector Moira Baker questioned the dollar fee. Hall Moira Baker questioned the "Who is 
see PARTIES, page 6 

13 rnembers elected 
to S~MC frosh council 
By MAURimN O'ROURKE The job of the freshman coun­News Staff cil is to plan and sponsor fresh· man acttvtties like: dances, Thirteen candidates from a masses and volunteer services, field of 21 were elected to the according to Kollman. From the Saint Mary's freshman council .freshman council, one member is yesterday. elected chairman and sits on the 
The new council members are: Board of Goverance. The Board Maura Barille, Betsy Burke, of Goverance is the main student Maureen Erny, Eileen Hartigan, government at Saint Mary's. Jeanne Heller, Angie Hundman, Hartigan, a newly elected Allison Krause, Jill Lynch, Susan member, plans to organize O'Dell, Heather Rapp, Anne Rior­dances and sleigh rides in dan, Eunice Tornetta, Rita Trent. February "when things get dull." 
Ann Marie Kollman, election She said she wants to "unify the commissiom::r of the Board of freshman class in the Saint Mary's Governance, said "it was a close tradition." election, but disappointingly on· ly 48 percent of the freshmen Council member Barille in· class voted." eluded in her platform plans to 
"The council meets one a hold a blood drive, an all· week. They pick their positions freshmen mass, and possibly a after they have met a few times "daddy-daughter" weekend. She 
and also a chairman is elected," says she will "work her hardest she continuc:d. and try to do her best." 
Friday, October 7, 1983 -page 2
The Observer 

ID.Brie£ 
Three Notre Dame debate teamswill com-
p~t~ this w~~k~nd in a national d~bate tournament at the University of K~ntucky in L~xington. Th~ thr~~ Notr~ Dame teams are John Monb~rg and Paul Komyatt~;Jim Malackowski and KJ;isti Stathis; and Arnold Foley and Jan~ Kopp. Th~y will b~ among 100 t~ams par­tidpating. Last w~ek at the University of Nonh~rn Iowa, Malack· owski and Stathis w~r~ 4-4 in varsity division, and Monberg and Kopp were 3·3 in junior varsity. Th~ t~ams, und~r th~ dir~ction of Brother John Doran, hav~ gath~r~d 10.000 pi~ces of evid~nce and typed SOO pag~s ofargum~nt on th~ issu~ oftoxic-waste disposal. ­
The Obser11er 
Save the Lawns. Once again, that's th~ message from 
Dean of Studt·nts James Roem~r. In a directiv~ this week, Ro~mer said "'the grassy spots on th~ quad can b~ us~d for reading or relax­ing. Athletic games must be taken to the adjac~nt playing areas. Please do not usc the quads for short-cut walking. Stay on the sidewalks provided." Roemer said new sidewalks put in this summer mak~ it "mor~ conveni~nt to stay on th~ sidewalks."-The Obsen'er 
Sales by the nation's major reraiters continu~d ~ 
steady 1.:limb in September despit~ a heat wave early in the month that temporarily wilted demand for fall and winter fashions, the retailer~ ~aid Thursday. Sales wen: up 27. S percent at Scars, Roebuck and Co.. the nation's largest retailer, whik No.2 K-mart Corp. posted an H.H pertTnt gain. The third largest retailer, ].C. Penney Co. Inc., had a <;_I perct·nt increase compared with the same period a year ago. "Particularly in the apparel lines, sales were strong when tt·m· peratures wt·re st·asonably cool," said K-mart Chairman Bernard M. Fauber. "Once fall weather is here to stay, we expect to sec a return to double-digit sales incre"":~es." Retail industry analysts said the gains were in line with expectations and continued a pattern of st~ady growth. "There is a strong pace of spending out there," said Stanley lv~rson, retail analyst for Duff & Phelps Inc. in Chicago. 
Monroe Greenstein, who analyzes the industry for the New York· based securities firm of Bear, Stearns & Co., said, the sales gains "'could be characterized as good" and that he anticipates more ofthe same for the rest of the year. The pattern of year-to-year increases should continue, said Jeffrey Edelman, retail analyst for Dean Witter­Reynolds Inc. "Consumers seem to be responding to the fall mer· chandis, outwaiting until it is offered at substantially reduced prices," he said. -AP 
Willie Mak was sentenced to death yesterday in 
Seattle by the jury that had convicted him ofaggravated first-degree murder in the massacre of 13 people in a Chinatown gambling club. Tht· King County Superior Court jury deliberaed less than two hours bdort· passing sentence on the 22-year-old Hong Kong immigrant. Mak was convicted Wednesday in the Feb. 19 killings, Washington's worst mass murder. Aggravated first-degree murd~r is the only crime in Washington punishable by death. Execution in the state is by kthal injection or hanging. llnder state law, the jury was required to st·ntt·nce Mak to death or to lift: in prison without parole. Ddensc lawyers pleaded f(>r leniency because of Mak's age and because a co-ddendant. Benjamin Ng, 20, earlier escaped the death penalty aftn his conviction on identical charges Aug. 24. A third man, Tony Ng, 26, no relation, also has been charged but is at large.:. -AP 
A high-ranking official in the.: u.s. Environmental Prott'Ction Agency said Thursday the Reagan administration is lt·aning toward an "evolutionary and flexible" plan to fight acid rain. Fitzhugh (;rt·en, who as the agency's associate administrator for in· ternational activities is in charge ofdeveloping an acid rain program, told representatives ofeight Great Lakes states -including Indiana -that proposals to curb the airborne pollution have caused divi­
sions within the.: administration. Green said a Cabinet council has not 
yet made recommendations to President Reagan from a range ofacid 
rain proposals submitted by EPA administrator William Ruckelshaus. 
"'Much as I would like to give you a sneall. preview ofour decision, I 
cannot. We haven't made it," Green told a meeting ofthe Great Lall.es Commission. "We arc leaning toward a plan that would be evolutionary and flexible." -AP 
Of Interest 
c 
Thorton Wilder's play. The Skin of Our Teeth, 
opens tonight at H in ()'Laughlin Auditorium on tht• Saint Mary's campus. It the t1rst play this season sponsored by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre. The show also runs tomorrow night and next Friday and Saturday nights. For tickets, call 2H44-4626. -The Obsen•er 

Weather 
Considerable cloudiness and mild today. A 20 percent chance ofshowers. High around 70. Mostly cloudy tonight with a 30 percent chance of showers. Low mid 50s. Decreasing cloudiness tomorrow. High mid 60s. -AP 


Next round in gun debate 
Despite its avowed attempt to avoid ruling on Second Amendment cases, the Supreme Court may have of­fered its biggest boost yet to gun control enthusiasts. ­in a move long overdue. 
In Monday's opening session, the Court let stand an appellate court ruling that a local community can ban the sale and ownership ofhandguns. The case involves a Morton Grove, Ill., ordinance outlawing the sale and ownership ofpistols and revolvers. 
The Supreme Court action, or rather lack of action, places the controversy in a new light. 
Historically, the Court has tried to avoid cases concerning th~ constitutional right to bear arms. In fact, it has issued only two decisions interpreting the Second Amendment. In 1886, the Court ruled that the amend­ment did not apply to states at all but was intended to serve as a limit to federal legislation. In 1939, the Court upheld a federal law that prohibits transporting sawed­offshotguns in interstate commerce. 
Arguments on both sides of th~~ controversy have been regurgitated enough that even the mildest of political observers know 

Jeff Harrington 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Friday 

sassins whose tasks are made easier with the ready pur· chase of a gun. Moreover, the increasing number of domestic quarrels resulting in shooting deaths attests to the need to reexamine the availability ofhandguns. 
Now, for the first time, the Supreme Court has given the gun control movement the fuel it needs. Although the Court has done nothing to indicate it supports the philosophy ofgun control, it has cleared the path for the growth oflocal ordinances banning handgun sales and ownership. 
Shifting the focus of gun control legislation to the community level might be best for the gun control movement. Many of today's 

them by heart: more powerful movements Guns don't kill, people -e.g. nuclear freeze do. proponents and right-to-life Ifyou outlaw guns, only groups -have developed outlaws would have guns. from community grassroots 
Easy access to guns en­efforts. courages would-be assas· There is no reason to sins, te1rorists, and believe gun control would mobsters. be any different. In fact, 
Rather than rehash the considering the power ofna· debate over the effective­tiona! organizations such as 
ness of gun control legisla· tion, I merely offer a few facts. 1980 figures for countries with gun control laws show a direct correla­tion between a decrease in the murder rate and an ef· fective gun control law. That year, Japan reported 77 persons were killed by handguns; Australia, 4; Sweden, 18; Israel, 23; Canada, 8; and Great Britain, 8. The 1980 figure for the United States, however, is 11,522. 
Such a radical difference seems to indicate that, while gun control laws may not be flawless, · r:nany murders can be prevented ifno guns are available. The tougher it is to kill someone, the more people will think twice before trying it. 
Though I promise not to dwell on the oft mentioned "isolation" of Notre Dame students, the fact remains that the typical student has little reason to think about mushrooming gun sales until it hits home -until a friend or relative is senselessly killed ...until another national leader falls prey to an assassin's bullets. 
The insanity of handgun proliferation in the U.S. reaches all levels: from children "playing" with guns in the house, fatally wound their siblings, to would-be as· the National Rifle Associa· tion, it is doubtful any Con­gressional action limiting gun sales could ever mall.e it off the floor. On a federal 

level, gun control legislation has always been doomed for failure. 
Gun control proponents might face determined op­position in the local front also, but at least here they have a fighting chance -as the Morton Grove or­dinance illustrates. 
In the long run, the goal of decreasing the rate of shooting homicides may never be reached without passage of a federal handgun ban. But, for the moment, gun control advocates are sitting pretty for the first time ever. 
And pro-handgun groups may start sweating when they realize how tough it is to mobilize support against individual communities. 
The Observer is always looking for new talent. If you are interested in newspaper wntrng or newspaper production, stop up at The Observer office on the 3rd floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 



All-You-Can-Eat 
'


Brunch 

On Sundays, it's Brunch at the Marriott 
Every Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 2:30p.m., enjoy Brunch at the Marriott. A stupendous buffet of omelettes, waffles, and bagels, plus seafood, salads, cheeses, fruits, assorted hot entrees and vegetables. 
Thp your meal off with an array of mouth-watering desserts. 
BOTTOMLESS 
glass of Champagne 

Th add to your pleasure, there's 
sPrved 12:30 ·2:30p.m.

live entertainment too. All for 
lno additional charge) 

$9.95 for adults, $4.95 for children under 12. 
.

For reservations, please call 234-2000 

~SOuTH BEND _\\orriott 
HOTEL 

12:J N. St, Joseph Street, South Bend, Indiana 46601 
--------------------------------------------------------, The Observer Friday, October 7,'"'1983 -page 3 
Better safe than sorry, ND Fir4~ Chief explains 
By GRETCHEN PICHLER 
StaffReporter 
A spider, a splash of water, even a dust particle may be all it takes to set offone ofthe many smoke detectors located in dorms and other campus buildings. The detectors' high sen­sitivity is one reason that 22 false alarms have been sounded so far this year. 
Director of Fire Safety Jack Bland stressed that the alarms were not malfunctions, but rather were proof of their effectiveness in detecting a possible fire. "Technically speaking, they are as good as we can get," he said. 
"We have increased the fire detec­tion enormously in the last five years," said Bland. As the number of smoke detectors increases, so does the probability of somet:1ing going wrong, and "out of that (comes) the degree of additional protection ... (and) increased life-saving probabil­ity for students," said Eland. "We feel that we would much rather respond to an alarm caust:d by a piz­za oven, reset the box and come back, than have a fire that goes un­detected," he said. 
In the Pasquerillas, even the Notre Dame student radio station has been known to set offthe sensitive alarms. 
Although no alarms have been sounded so far this year from fifteen of the twenty-four dorms, twenty­two alarms have been reported by the remaining nine dorms, the bulk ofwhich coming from Sorin ( 6 ), Ho­ly Cross ( 5 ), Morrissey ( 3 ), and Fis­her ( 3). "Whatever small annoyance (is caused by the false alarms), we're willing to say it's well worth it," said Bland. 
There has been only one actual fire, caused by a tension lamp that fell on a couch in Holy Cross Hall. 
There is usually very little problem with pranksters setting off the alarms. "I think the students are as annoyed with them as much as anyone else," said Bland. 
The fire department employs seven full-time firefighters, two per shift, as well as four student firefightes. The student firefighters live in the fire station, and work for the department as part of the stu­dent job program. The workers at the power plant also volunteer their time, during the day, if additional help is needed. The Notre Dame Fire Department protects Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross Junior College. 
~..-...._____.... .. . 1 .--NCThE IJ'f'tl( \/U~f' ·'twl('f'\ 
fC{)!tvHIJNIIC!lllii{)N l 

~~...__--.0 l JRE 
October 7flfll?III()A\, lfiiiL~\ ~~~11:?111~~ 
Dr. Strangelove: or Ho111r I Learned to 
Stop Worrying and Lov•• theo~e~l:bby stanley Kubrick. B/W, 93 min. Some srxty international awards ~~on•1r this wildly comic no~htmare that enviSions the Pre5>den' of the U.S, ~1':9-\heh Premier of the U S.S.R. cooperating in a b1zarre effort to save the world from total disaster. Screen satire at its finest: outrageous, danng, inventive, scintillating, 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum /idmissiori
00

~-----lnr 1() ~ 11113 ltllr--2-·iti-'.., 


Marybeth Curtis pauses for a moment ofreflection at candle racks were cleared outfrom the alcove area yes­the Grotto, which is having a newfloor installed. Votive terday as workmen replaced the decayitzgfloor. 
New Ministry t:lirector to promote social reform through experience 
··a.···p·~:~:~:~:~:~:·:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~~~:·~:~:~:~:~;~;~:~;~.~·~:~-~;~;~-~-~'~·~·~~~~~~~--~~~~~·'~·.·.·.·.--.·.·.·..·.·.·.·.·.·.---·.·.·.·.·.·-·.·.~~------------------------------~ 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY 
News Staff 
The new director of the Univer­sity's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry says he sees the ministry as a way of promoting social reform as well as his faith. 
"I decided to combine my work for the spiritual enrichment of the human being as well as helping to promote human welfare in society," said MonsignorJoseph Gremillion of his new responsibilities. He said he began to realize "that there was a need for a social crusade in favor of social justice." 
In 1976, the University of Notre Dame founded the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry to combine the University's resources for the betterment of the Roman Catholic Church and its members. 
Today, the Institute coordinates the activities of a wide variety of programs such as the Center for So­cial Concerns, the Church Leaders Program, the Center for Pastoral Liturgy, the Institute for Clergy Education, and Retreats Inter-na­tional. Effective July 1, 1983, Gremillion became the new direc­tor. He !mcceeds Monsignor John ). Egan, the Institute's founder. · 
Grem:illion was born in 1919 and is a native of Louisiana. He grew up in a farm environment in which there existed a great chasm between blacks and whites, rich and poor. Referring to the conditions of the poor blacks who worked the fields, he said, "Their whole plight was hor­rible. They suffered hunger, cold, and indignity. It was only when I en­tereq ,tJJ~: ,setpin.arythat I discovered how opposed to the principles of Christ that whole system was." 
In 1967, Pope Paul VI asked him to serve as the chief executive of­ficer for the Pontifical Commission of Justice and Peace and as co­chairman of the Committee on Society, Development, and Peace. 
From 1974 to 1978, he was a faculty fellow at Notre Dame. He is also an author with a long list of published works concerned mainly with the Church's role in the areas of peace and justice and social reform. 
-------------------------·---~---------­
Cosimo Hair J[)esign 
18461 St. Rd. 2:3 277-1857 
Men: Regularly $14.95, Spec:i~tl Price $to• Women: Regularly $20, Special Price $15• •with coupon 
for Notre Dame students only 
Pittsbur11h Club 
Bus Sign-Ups 

Mon., Oct. 10 at 7 PM 
LaFortune Little Theatre 
Questions? ...Call Bill 7873 
His new position at Notre Dame is one ofoverall coordination. Retreats International, for example, has over 750,000 catholics attending 400 retreat centers in the United States and Canada every year. Gremillion says the headquarters provides a North American network for the continuing education of these in­dividuals. The Center for Pastoral Litugy helps guide the 18,900 cath­olic parishes in North America. 
When asked how the programs, especially those geared towards the students, could help change society, he responded, "No one university can of itself reform society, but Notre Dame certainly has a great op­portunity in the area of economic and social reform." He said that as each student goes out into the com­munity he will take the message of social justice with him. 
The Center for Social Concerns is the primary means of preparing the students for the cultural shock they will encounter in the outside world. "The Center offers the students an opportunity to put their big toe into the water before they plunge into the cold environment of inequity, oppression, and frustration that many of our brothers and sisters in the Lord undergo." Further, the Cen­ter allows "each student to work out his own degree ofcommittment." 
His work here involves not only the students, faculty, and alumni of Notre Dame, but also catholics throughout the United States and Canada. 
• • .WSND 
continuedfrom page 1 
yet. 
Exactly when Notre Dame's new FM station will hit the airwaves is un­certain. After the application review and approval Notre Dame must pur­chase the equipment and train the 
staff to operate it. 
There is a possibility that the new Notre Dame station will be housed in LaFortune Student Center. McDonnell says it is currently, "under consideration to place the radio stations on the third floor op­posite The Observer offices." This plan, however, would only be imple­mented after a renovation of LaFortune. Therefore, there is no im­mediate plan to move the radio sta­
tions from their home in O'Shaughnessy tower. 


-~­
The Observer Friday, October 7, 1983 -page 4 
Covert Sandinista rebel planes tied to CIA, says intelligence source 
Associated Press 
W ASHIN<ITON -The Central In­telligence Agency provided anti­Sandinista rd>ds with at lc:ast one of the planes used in bombing raids inside Nicaragua laM month, intd­ligence sources say. 
Ont.• source said it was a CIA­supplied plane, piloted by two Nicaraguan rebds, that crashed at the base of the control tower at Managua's international airport during a Sept. H bombing raid. An­other source said the CIA has providt:d five light planes to the Costa Rican-based forces of former Sandinista hero Eden Pastora, who claimed responsihility for the air­port raid. 
Although CIA "covert" support for Honduran-hased, Nicaraguan counter-revolutionaries has heen known for months, Pastora's source of arms and money has remained shrouded in secrecy. Pastora, who hrokt· with the Sandinista govern­ment IH months ago, has repeatedly rdust·d to say where he gets his sup­port. 
CIA spokt·sman Dale Peterson said Thursday "it is not our policy to comment on sU<:h allegations." 
Thrt·t· ll.S. intelligence sollfes who confirmed the existence of li.S. aid to Pastora spoke on condition 
Reagan to 'welcome' Watt vote 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<iTON-A Whitt: House spokesman said Thursday the St·nate b "wdcome" to vote on whether James Watt should ht· firt·d, hut President Reagan won't ft:d bound by it. Another source said the inte­rior st·cretary will resign. however, rathn than he rt·pudiated on Capitol Ifill. 
This adminbtration ollicial. who spoke on condition that he not bt· named, said Watt prohahly will stt·p down in tht· next two weeks, in light of what looms as a lopsided margin against him in the Republican­controlled St·natc. 
"Rathn than ht· repudiated in a Senatt· vott:. ht• will rc:sign," tht· ~ourn· said. 
Deputy \'( hitt· lloust· prt·ss 'tTn·tary Ltrr) Spt·•tke~. meanwhile, in.\btcd that Wart ha.~ nor been asked to re~ign. But Speakt·~ rdused to ~ay whethn Watt i~ still an dkctive <:abint·t memhc:r. "lie'~ on vacation right now... he ~aid. 
Speakes. in discussing the pt·nding St·natt· vote. said .. We'd prdi:r that it nor t·ome up. Wt·'d prefer that tht· Cabint'l secretary he allowed to do hi~ job... 
Askt·d if l'rt·sidt·nt Rt·agan would sn·k W<Ut'~ rc~ignation if tht· Senate tlt-mands it. Speakes said "tht· prt·si· dent would certainly welcome a Senate t·xprnsion of its views on anything, hut it would not he bin­ding." 
For his part. Watt was dc:scrihed hy aide~ as t·njoying his California vacation in tht· rolling hills abovt· Santa Barbara. 
Watt and hb wifc: lll"w to Califor­nia on Wednt·sday to spt·ml a fc:w days as guests ofThomas). Barrack. a wc:althy California husinc:ssman who owns a rant·h dght miks down the road from Rc:agan's sprc:ad. Bar­rack snved for a brief timc: last year as deputy undt·rsecretary at the lntc:­rior l>t-partmc:nt. 
Watt rt:maint·d sc:dudc:d hc:hind the ranch's lockc:d gate Wednesday and Interior Ikpartmt·nt officials were not ott<:ring any details on his activitit·s. 
they not he identified. 

Onc: said that only the plane that crashed at the airport killing the two rehcls on board came from the CIA. and that other planes used by Pas­lora's forces were provided by the rightist Salvadora government with­out U.S. involvc:ment. 
However, another source, who has access to the ledger listing CIA aid to Pastora, said the CIA supplied him three two-engine Cessnas and two one-engine Cessnas. He added that the agency also provides Pao;ora's rehds with "the normal complement of arms" that go to the Honduran-hased forces. 
The source said the CIA bought the planes with .money from the agency's secret "contingency fund," not from the S19 million allocated for the Nicaraguan covert action in 
19Hj budget. The CIA exceeded that budgeted amount in March ­ahout halfway through the federal hudget year -and rdit:d on thc: contingt·ncy fund to pay for the operation after that point, sources have said. 
The source said that planes technically were "sold" to Pastora's forces because CIA officials "don't want their fingerprints too obvious." 
That account was confirmed in­dc:pendently by a third source, who added: "Pastora's up to his neck in this." 
r··------------------------------------· 
fla~/4 
143 Dixieway South

HAIRUMM Notre Dame, IN. 
(21 9) 234-5350 
Nexus Products 

ND-SMC Special $6.00 ......................... wet cut go 
10• OFF all services perms color cellophanes manicures wax oven beard trims braids Instant conditioners highlighting 

Student ID required 
·-----------~-----------------~--~---! 
After the airport attack, the San­dinistas released documents they claim to have recovered from the crashed 1981 twin-engine Cessna 
404. The documents included one pilot's Florida driver's license, his 
U.S. Social Security card and American credit cards. 
The papers showed that the pilot, 
Agustin Roman, a onetime top San­
dinista air force official, had made 
recent flights to Costa Rica, El Sal­
vador, Venezuela, Miami, Houston 
and New York. 

Federal Aviation Administration 
records say a Cessna with the serial 
number matching the one on the 
documents was registered to Inves­
tair Leasing Corp. of McLean, Va., on 
Nov. 26, 1982, by Mark L. Peterson, 
Investair's director of marketing. 
FAA rec<>rds show it was "de­
registered" June 7 when it was ap­
parently sold\ to a Panamanian company. 
The New York Times reported in Thursday's editions that Investair's manager, Edgar L. Mitchell, was a former top official of Intermountain Aviation Inc., a now defunct com­pany that was owned by the CIA. The Times said Pt~terson was an of­ficer of Air America Inc., another CIA proprietary, in 1977 and 1978. 
Reached by phone at Investair offices in McLean on Thursday, Peterson refused comment and said Mitchell was out of town. 
Austrian camera buff 
Miss Austria in the current Miss International Pageant, Eviline Rille, takes time outfor afew souvenirsnapshotsyesterday during thepageant entrants' visit to the International Sports Fair fashion show in Tokyo. The pageant finale will be held Oct. 11 in Osaka, japan. 
Restaurant Opportunities 
Are Awaiting You At The New 
NANCY'S WINDY CITY OPENING SOON 
Seeking responsible individuals 
for the following postions: *Pizza Makers *Cooks 
Bartenders *Food Servers *Bussers *Dishwashers *Cocktail Servers 

Apply in Person *Hosts/Hostesses Monday thru Friday *Delivery Personnel 
Oct. 3-0ct. 7 
AI 

NANCY'S WINDY CITY 
2046 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 mionutes from Notre Dame 
The Observer Friday, October 7, 1983-page 5 

* 

is acceJ~ting applications for 1~he positions of 
*Copy Editor .and 
*A~;sistant 
Re1~rs Editor. ******************* 
Applicatiions are due Monday 
For information contact Paul McGinn at The Observer office. 


THE 
Woody Allen 
THE

FINAL 
BIG

OPTION ZELIG 
CHILL
1:45-3:45-5:45 
2:00-4:30 
7:45-9:45 1 :30-3:30-5:30 
7:00·9:30 
7:30-9:30
JPGJ
~ 
~ 
~s:-·~:.\""­

lrish special 2 for 1 with this ad 'tor THE ROCKY tiORROR PICTURE SHOW 
Woman's neglig~ence suit unique, says U Diversity ;general counsel 
By MARK POTIER 
News Staff 
"Ifsomeone is injured on campus there is always the possibility that they will bring a case against the Uni­versity." according to Philip Facenda, the general counsel to the University. 
He noted, however, that he does not know of any cases ever being filed against the University by a per­son who has been assaulted or raped. In fact. he knows of no such cases anywhere. 
However, such a case is currently being filed against the University. Christenna Bearman sued the Uni­versity for S201,037 because of an incident that occured in the stadium parking lot after the 1979 Notre Dame-South Carolina football game, when a drunk allegedly knocked her to the ground. breaking her right leg. 
In the same suit, her husband, James, also sought $50,000 in damages for the loss of his wife's services and companionship during her recuperation. 
Mrs. Bearman is claiming Notre Dame security was negligent. An In­diana Court of Appeals recently ruled that the case must be brought before a jury, which will decide whether the precautions taken by the Universiity to protect fans were adequate. 
"All the measures that an institu­tion takes, or neglects to take, must be weighed in the total pattern. From these an attitude can be seen," said Facenda. This attitude is what the jury looks for in a negligence case. 
The University has tried to an­ticipate security risks and respond to them, Facenda said. 
Glenn Te·rry, director of Notre Dame security, said the case did not prompt an increase in security specifically to handle potentially drunk spectators. The only recent change in security was prompted by Notre Dame's scheduled night games, wht:re darkness increased the need for security, Terry said. 
He declined to describe the amount of security at a game and their assignments, explaining that public discussion of security might help "people who might try to get away with criminal acts." 
"In our protection measures we try to be better than the absolute minimum," Facendasaid, noting that there are two reasons for the protec­tion. First, if the llniversity were to take only the absolute minimum security measures and someone was assaulted on campus, the University would be very likely be held negligent. 
To explain the second reason, Facenda used the following ex­ample; "We can't ask our lawyers to be the best they can be and then turn around and not do our best to protect the students." This demand for excellence is the main reason that Facenda feels that the Univer­sity must do its best to insure the stu­dent's safety. "To do otherwise wouldn't be in keeping with the Uni­versity in general," he said. 

Theo prof takes abortion stand 
By KAREN THOMPSON 
News Staff 
A professor of moral theology, who was hired by the University over the summer, believes that "abortion is acceptable in certain circumstances." 
But University officials say the opinion of Dr. Daniel Maguire was not an issue in the decision to hire him as theJohn A. O'Brien professor ofmoral theology. 
I 
The theology department was aware of Maguire's stand on abor­tion when he was hired, but Father Edward Malloy, associate provost, 
said this week that "Dr. Maguire was hired because he is one of the more outstanding theologians in the country. The issue of abortion was not raised until later." 
Maguire, who is the visiting John 
A. O'Brien professor for this school year, said he "is opposed to abortion, but the so-called Pro-Ufe movement approaches the issue in the wrong way." 
He said, "People need to examine the causes of abortion, and this in­cludes taking into consideration both men and women." 
When Maguire applied for the position, he submitted part ofa book he had written, including a section dealing with abortion. The book, 
Death By Cboice, had received an imprimatur, meaning the book was judged to be free from doctrinal er­ror. 
In an artide that he wrote in The Christian Century, Maguire said, "It is a theological fact of life that there is no one normative Catholic posi­tion on abortion. The truth is insuffi­ciently known in American polity because it is insufficiently ack­nowledged by American Catholic 
voices.'f..Lt ~ \H•.l:::t,..'!·... .·(._,·· 
He also states that "prohibition is wrong because it attempts to impose a priivate moral position on a pluralistic society." 
"In a Catholic university of this sort, academic freedom is vital if the university is to remain elegible for 
V...~~~~,.~~~~~.~i,!!,~.,".. 
quailhr.d dr.grr.es in Medicine and Veterinary Medicine. The School is locatr.d on the beautolul Canbbean Island of Oominic.l, an English-speaktng country with a stable government and lrir.ndly rel,tlions with Ihe U.S.A. All courses are taught in English by outst.lnding lacullies from the U.S. Also financial Jtd available. 
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE ·American Medical School Curriculum· 78.4% pass rate ECFMG by Ross grads. We have allilialions and working agreements in more than 40 hosptlals in the US where our students do their third and fourth years of clinical ~lerkships ·Accredited· Ltsted in Directory of Medical Schools. World Health Organization • Over 90% of our Graduates are doing their residency in U.S. Hospitals. 
SCHOOL OF VETERINARY MEDICINE ·American Veterinary School Curriculum· Accredited and liSited in AVMA Directory. Portions of curriculum taught on campus in St. Kitts ancl in 111e US 3'12 years veterinary medictne program. Transfer applications accepted. AH applicants should write to: Ross University, Clarence Buller. Director P.O. Box 266. Roseau. Dominica. W.l. or Caribbean Admissions. Inc., 16 West 32 St.. Dept. 1, New York. N.Y. 10001. 
ISIS GALLERY ART OJl~ENING 
Figurative Gouaches By 
FATHER ANDRE BOULER October 8-21 
Opening Reception Saturday, Oct. 8, 7 -9PM isis Gallery Art Department 3rd FloorArt Budding 
federal fundings," Maguire said this week. 
"At the University of Notre Dame we don't enforce on idea: We let people make up their own minds about issues. for the main idea in a Catholic university is many minds competing freely together." he added. 
ND senior helps stop hold-up 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTT 
News Staff 
Senior Steve Carlile helped stop a man from robbing a cab driver early Sunday morning in downtown South Bend. 
Carlile, along with his friend Mitch Nihart, a ROTC graduate from Indiana University, South Bend, spotted the suspect holding a cab driver by the neck and decided to follow the vehicle. The cab driver, Michael Hurd. of the Michiana Cab Company, turned onto MadL~on Street, driving the wrong way on a one-way street. 
At 318 West Madison, the suspect jumped out of the cab and hid in some bushes, according to Carlile. 
The two men stopped their car and cautiously approached the rob­ber,who had concealed himself in the foilage nearby. They were not sure if the man was armed or not; they themselves each had a knife on their person. 
The cabbie then proceeded to call the police on his car radio. at ap­proximately 12:25 a.m. When the police arrived almost ten minutes later, the suspect had already been apprehended by Carlile and Nihart. Apparently, Nihart had lured the man out ofthe bushes by telling him to give himself up, because the police were already on their way. 
Felipe Hernandez, 25, of 617 North Walnut was arrested by the South Bend Police and charged with robbery, a felony. He is being held in the St. Joseph County Jail on $1,500 bond. 
A pair ofscissors and $3 5 were recovered from Hernandez by the police. The cab driver wa.~ shaken by the incident, but his only casualty was a pair ofglasses which wei;: lost in the confusion. Nihart suffered a cut on his hand, inflicted by Hernan­dez with the scissors. 
Carlile said he and his friend decided to get involved because they "wanted to help the guy out." 

The Observer Friday, October 7, 1983 page6 
japanesefarmers opposed to liberalised import rules for lf.S. citrusfnlits ami be£1marcb through dou•ntou'Tl TokJ•o Wednesdc~v to press their demands on their 

Jetliner tragedy sparks safety laws 
Associated Press 

WASIIIN<iTON -Th~ govt·rn· mcnt, spurr~d hy th~ d~ath of 2,'\ pcoplt-aboard an Air Canada j~t· lin~r. proposnl rult-s Thursday to n&rh casualties from cahin firt·s. The rt:quirt:mt·nts inl·lud~ tlanK­resist;ull Sl'atnlvers, and new lights 
and oth~r signals for faster evacua­tion. 
Transportation Secrt·tary Uizaht·th Dolt-said th~ st~ps "could save hundreds of lives in tht· nt·xt I 0 yt·ars" hy ~o~iving passengers mort· timt· to escape -and ~nahling th~m to do so mort· quickly. 
She said since 196"i tht·re havt· 

ht·t·n l) 14 fatalilit·s involving tires in 
l l.S. airlin~ accidt·nts. HO percent of th~m tht· result of!lames, smoke and 

continuedfrom page 1 
to ensur~ that our enterprising stu­dt·nts don't t:apitalizc on tht· oppor­tunity to profit? If tht· ohjc<:tivc behind tht· one dollar admission to parties is to eliminate party­hopping, we should take more t:f­fn·tive m~ans to do so hy simply forbidding party-hopping." 
Baker continued that students should plan thl'ir parties farther in advance and issue personal invita­tions. She also states that the only way to prcvt·nt drifting is to station security guards outside of dorms to turn tht· drifters away. 
Lyons Rector Sister Marietta Starric also had rt·servations about how social life should he organized at Notre Dame. "I can't ht· in favor of this resolution ht:cause I have ques­tions with how the parties held today fit the imagt· of Notre Dame." 
Still othns thought the proposal 

was long ovt:rdue. Bnnic Pel­
lt-grino, prt·sident of Dillon Hall. 
governmen/. Though 'relatively few in number, the far­
mersand theirorganization, Zenchu, arepolitica/~y in· jluential injapan. 
toxic gasl'S emitted from cahin mat~rials, or problems with evacua­tion. 
Even so. tht· new materiab arc not exptTtt·d to he installed in all the na­tion's 2,HOO commercial jetliners until late 19H7, since carriers will he allowed to make the changes as part of their routine scat refurbishing schedules. 
Thl· proposed regulation, which prohahly will not be made final until next summer at the earliest, would require installation offire and smoke blocking covers on scats in all com­mercial jetliners. Although all new planes will have to he equipped with the covers. airlines will have another three years to equip their current fleet. 
Tht· scat covers, a !lame resistant 
• • • Parties 
said, "Womt:n think ofit as an obliga­
tion to pay for parties on other 
campuses across the nation." 
Morrissey president John Ver­furth believes "It's about time girls paid for parties. That way the male halls don't lose as much. This will help rid the problem ofdrifters." 
However, Lewis president Janeen Olds did not share his optimism. "It won't do anything for the social life. Most girls won't he against paying a dollar for three or four beers. And the drifting will continue." 
One important issue is the legality of the resolution. Farley president Kelly Fitzgerald thought that "the proposal doesn't encourage viola­tion of the liquor laws. On the other hand, most of us arc under age anyway." 
DiChiara (Grace) didn't think the proposal "would violate any liqour laws. It's still a private party with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents admittt·d as guests only." 
Come On ·N· Give It a Try The Fall Festival Variety Show 
Sign-up 
All interested acts are needed to sign-up before October 11 
with either Mary Hronscek (3352) or Curt Shim (1527) The show will be November 11. Prizes will be awarded for the best acts. 

layer tltted between the polyurethane foam and the outer fabric cover, extends the time that flames arc kept away from the seat cushions and for a time prevents the release of toxic gases and smoke 
from the foam. 
The Federal Aviation Administra­tion said tests showed that the blocking layer postpones the so­called "tlashpoint" -when flames suddenly engulf the cabin-at least 40 seconds. giving pa~scngcrs that much more time to escape. 
'Lord of the Flies' author William Golding wins Nobel Lit Prize 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden -British writer William Golding, whose novels, including "Lord ofthe Flies," depict the savage side of human nature, won the 1983 Nobel Prize in literature Thursday. 
The Swedish Nobel Committee cited Golding's novels for their clarity, diversity, and "universality of myth" that "illumnatc the human condition in the world today." 
London Times literary editor Philip Howard called Golding one of the three great living British novelists, along with Graham Greene and Anthony Burgess. "He is a very powerful novelist and it's a good award," Howard said. "I don't always feel that about the Nobel Prize, hut I do this time." 
"I really am delighted," Golding said by telephone from his cottage in Wiltshire, England. 
Pointing out that it was the tlrst Nobel literature award to a Briton since Winston Churchill won in 1953, he said "In a sense one can say I'm in extraordinary company.... I have enough old-fashioned patriotism to he glad not just for myself hut because the prize has been won after 30 years hy an Englishman." 
Golding, 72, wrote stories from the time he was seven, but did not begin his professional writing career until he was 43, with the publication ofhis best-known, novei"Lord ofthe Flies." 
The nightmarish story of a group of English schoolboys stranded on an island traces their degeneraion from a state of innocence to one of blood lust and savagery. 
It sold millions ofcopies in Britain and later in the United States, where 
, 
Catering Dept. of St. Mary's College is currently 
in need of waitersI waitresses for a large ban­
quet to be held on October 7. Please call Cindy 
at 284-5542 or stop into the dining hall office to 
apply. 

12:30 -4 Monday-Friday 
Haggar Ctr -3rd Floor 
~~ 
A 
PARMERLEE DETECTIVE AGENCY MR. C. T. PARMERLEE 
Pnuat• D•t,.t:tiu• 
115 S Scott Street. Apt A South Bend, IN 46601 (219) 288-6621 
Work with the Besi In the Nuclear field 
1'he NAVY oper.Hcl'l the .ast advanc~td nuclear equipMent i.n the world, In­c lurltn•J mnr,~ th<'ln fl'l pPrc••nt nf tJw nucl••.'lr ro~-i•'lnrl'l tn 1\m•~rlcll. Tho• nu•n .,ho mal.ntatn anr1 npero'lto! thno;P rC!o'lo.."tnr• have to he the bPst. 
Abovc-Averaye Tech~ical Students 
eltgible for Navy Nuclear 
i'rovraiiiB can recelve1 

•Scholarships 
uf SIOOO per 111onth for up to 24 months 

h1.!'fare !Jraduat 1on, plus " $)000 s1yniny bonus. 


•:start1ny 
salary of ntt<'llrly S2C,000 •~apld advance•ent opportun1t1e"' 

•ImmediatE' 
management responsLbtlttte"' 



TO QUAL I I'Y YOU MUST 8E: 
AU. s. clttzt.>n between 19 ttnd l7, pur!>uJny d bacht>lor'!l ('I" master's deyree, and h... va completed dt !Past one year lHlch ot calculus and calculus-bo~~sed phystcs w1th <l "~H ..,ver.,ye-or bettor. Students maJOrlny Hl physics, cham­l~try, ~·nutn•1~>r1ny and math aru· pr~terred. 
CALL NAVY AT: l-sooL;~~t:;6:ms\'EE 
Navy Representative will be on Camnus OCT 19 & 29 (W & Th)-Plat:ement Office 
.Nav-y .{)f.f~r:s Cet. Responsibility Fast. 
it became a classic in colleges in the 
1960s -when much of the genera­
tion grappled with the agony of the 
Vietnam war. 
In its citation, the Nobel Commit­
teet: said '"Lord of the Flies" wa~ a 
bestseller in a way that is usually 
granted only to adventure stories, 
light reading and children's books." 
Churchill was the last Briton to win the literature prize. Bul~arian­born writer Elias Canetti, who won the prize in 1981, has lived for many years in Britain hut writes in Ger­
man. 
Previous British winners were 
Rudyard Kipling, George Bernard 
Shaw, John Galsworthy, T.S. Eliot 
and Bertrand Russell. 
Among Golding's later works are "The Inheritors," "Pincher Martin," "Free Fall," "The Spire," "The Pyramid," and "The Scorpion God." His m<lst recent works are the novels "Darkness Visible' in 1979 and "Rites of Passage" in 1980, and a book of essays etitled "The Moving 
Target" last year. 
"Rites of Passage," about life aboard a 19th century ship sailing from England to Australia, won the 1980 Booker McConnell Prize. Britain's top literary award. 
Golding's name had not been prominanently mentioned in speculation about this year's prize. The names most mentioned were Greene, Burgess, Nadine Gordimer, Joyce Carol Oates and Marguerite Yourcenar. 
The literature award was the second Nobel Prize to be awarded this year. Lech Walesa, leader of Poland's Solidarity labor movement, won the Peace Prize, it was an­nounced in Oslo, Norway on Wed­nesday. 
HHMIIIIHHIIIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIII.... 
~.............................................. 
"DATE-A-CARD"tm 
Dateable singles: They ask for your phone, hand them your "DATE-A­CARD"tm. What a difference it makes. 40 wallet size cards $2.75 postpaid. 
Write: MARIGOLD SUPPLY 
Box 3098N, Warren, Ohio 44485 
IIHHIII....HHIIIIIII...HIIIHIIIIIIINHIII 

Happy 
21st Birthday Terri H. 
You've come a long 
way, baby! 

The Observer Friday, October 7, 1983-page 7 

Unique institutions provide hungry students ND Foo~d Sales: with pizza and pop at reasonable prices 
By ALAN PARKIN 
News Staff 
.N.September turns to October and the dining halls begin to serve meals that we've never seen or tasted before, we begin to count the days until fall break when we will be able to return home and eat some of mom's delicacies. There are a few alternatives, of course. One can order a pizza from offcampus or go to a restaurant, but this can become expensive and time consuming. But for many on campus, there is a unique service: hall food sales, which provide stu­dents a fast and cheapsupplimc:nt to their diets. And food sales at Notre Dame are indeed unique. Some universitic:s operate food sales themselves, keeping the profits. Here, however, the hall determines how profits will be distributed. The administration restricts sales to foodstuffs and r,on­alcoholic beverages. Hall food sales provide the basic variety of junk food, such as chips, pop (not your father), candy, fruit juices and everyone's favorite -piz­za Some unique items include milkshakes, hot pretzels, sandwiches, cheese, pop tarts, and nachos. The manager ofFlanner Hall food sales, Mike Mann, said his dorm is considering eggrolls. "I usually go to food sales twice a week, especiallyafter'the dining hall serves a meal which I do not care for," said Mark Maloney, a freshman at Stanford. "Ifit were not for food sales," john Mangan added, "I think I would starve." 
Some dorms, such as Zahm and Flanner, run food sales more as a service to students, attempting only to pay the bills and stay out ofdebt. "We are not out to make-money," said Mike Sitko, Zahm Hall food sales manager. "We just try to make enough to pay the workers and the expenses." 
Mike Mann makes sure there's enough money to pay the bills and gives any surplus to the hall govern­ment. 
Other dorms keep a more careful eye on the profit margin. "We are set up as a profit-making organization," said Terry Hildner, the man in con­trol at Stanford food sales. Laura Hamilton andJeffTuskan, managers at Lyons Hall and Keenan Hall, agreed. In these dorms, the manager (or managers) receive a percent of the profits and in some cases a set salary also. 
Some dorms run promotions in 
order to increase profit. Lyons Hall 
delivers pizza to dorms on the South 
Quad. Flanner caters to some 
campus events; Stanford has a 
Thursday night special featuring a 
large pizza with a choice oftopping 
and four 16-ounce pops for S5. 
The student workers are usually 
hired by the managers, and many 
dorms hold organizational meetings 
or post sign-up sheets at the begin­
ning ofthe year in order to discover 
the nextJulia Child. 
Often the managers ask their old workers back "I tried to rehire all of my workers from the year before so I would only have two or three new workers to train," said Flanner's-Mann. "This year, however, many experienced workers moved off campus, so halfOf my workers are 

new." 

The managers at Keenan had big­ger problems than just choosing workers. "We started with $17.50 this year," explainedJeffTuskan, "so we had to start from scratch." 
Last year Keenan food sales had difficulty with its bookkeeping and went ll3,000 into debt "This year everyone was interested in starting up food sales again," said Tuskan. "To raise the necessary funds, we had a 'Take Stock in Za-Land' promo­tion. Anyo"J.e who donated $5 or more to food sales received a chance to win one offive pizzas on the night we reopened. We raised about S800, which gave us a good start." 
Students give different reasons for 
giving up their time to work at food 
sales. 

Mark Gorsak ofStanford said he works "for the money." Al Hunt, who works at Keenan, says he enjoys serving his friends and using his time t0 help the dorm. "It's a pretty easy job and I have fun doing it," he said. 
JeffMasciopinto ofZahm also 
likes serving his friends. "The whole 
purpose offood sales is to provide a 
good snack for the students. We 
have an efficient system which helps 
us to put out a good product" 
Photos by Hamil Cupero 

,--_______ 
, View~oint 
Friday, October 7, 1983 -page 8 

The first annual Potato Head Awards 
In the great tradition of this year's Emmy Awards, today's column features the Potato Head Awards (will they generate as much hate mail?) These awards arc given for 
Fran Norton 
Shrinking reality 
acts ofcxtrcmt· stupidity in the face of reason and all·around Potato 
Hcadcdncss. 
The recipient of the first award is tht· pt·rson responsible for the con­struction ofthe dazzling North Quad Mall. The award is not for the new miniature sprinklers hidden in each clump of bushes (they only moisten the ground and people's ankles.) Nor is it for the paved area at the west end which resembles a parking lot. Rather, the award is bestowed for starting construction of this Pedestrian's Nirvana in May, drag­ging their heels all summer, and then completing it in October -just in time for the first snowfall. 

The second award must go to the Obseroer's very own Cartoon Con­test. Never before have so many been insulted so much by so few. Let's examine the components of this five-pronged attack on humor. Mellish: just hellish. Darby's World: for the dogs. Schmen: truly enjoyed by the illiterate. Aspiran Man: this proponent of self-abuse and con­sumate artistic skill can only cause migraines ( sorry, sorry ). Spike's World: another wraith from the past. On a campus of 8,000 isn't there somebody out there who can do bet­ter? Alas, thank God for the Far Side! 
The third award is bestowed upon that harbinger of the inane, the man who suggested the creation ofa new dining hall. This facility would be located between the Pasquerilla s and the Memorial Library. While this building would solve the problem of sparse grass and weeds, it would on­ly create more headaches. 
A new dining hall, besides being a multi-million dollar project, would have to be staffed with many new employees. Our "lowest room and board of the top twenty" would skyrocket. A much simpler solution to long lines would be for students to attend meals at off-peak hours or, yes, to eat in the North's infamous A Line. Despite its reputation, it is al­ways nearly empty (when open). · 
The fourth award goes to the paragon of equality, St. Michael's Laundry. All male students must relinquish their apparel to this es­tablishment (or waste their pre­paid $50 deposit). Not only is this in violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, but it is also sexist! Female stu­dents may use the laundry on a voluntary basis. Perhaps when 
some poor girl's sweats are shnmken things will change. 
Well, these are the winners of the awards in the all-purpose category. However, there are other nominees who were passed over for reasons of politics and bribery (also because I ran out of space). The list of nominees includes kegs, ponies, parietals, chemistry labs, Ferdinand Marcos, and Gil Thorp. 
James Watt receives the Crippled Potato Head Award for obvious reasons. But he will probably mash it or French-fry it. Or stick it in his mouth along with both ofhis feet. 
I would have given a Special Potato Head Award to Gerry Faust, but ... maybe next year. 

P. 0. Box·Q 
ter" would, in all respects, mean another dents hopefully will learn prior to entering sors that they won't regret. In the business Chautauqua on the other side of campus. Al­the "real world." It should not be used as a school we call this access to information
Bus schedules 

though it is true: that Chautauqua is a great device to manipulate the students to conform "Consumer Protection." success and attracts the support of a number to one man's reasoning. At my undergraduate university, the stu­
Dear Editor: 

of N.D. students, I don't feel having another Considering the last item I discussed, I dent committee on course and teacher 
In her article "Chaos in Mo­such facility across campus would be practical realize I went off on a tangent. This was not evaluations published a review of their fin­
tion," Ms. Fosmoe displays a lack of the skills for the number ofstudents here at N.D. the issue I set out to discuss, but perhaps, it is dings each year. The review included cogent 
necessary to write an unbiased article. Ms. If Dean Roemer bases his objection on the an issue that needs less manipulation and information on course content as well as some 
Fosmoc has not only written a totally one­flimsy excuse of supervision, he must have a more of an open minded approach on the very candid comments about the perfor­
sided story, hut the: facts she uses to support narrow minded approach to problem solving. parts of the students, administration, and mance of the professors. On more than one 
her argumt·nts arc: false: and misleading: I say this because it is a trivial problem to rec­Dean Roemer. occassion the published comments prompted 
I )University Village, although physically tify. If one even considers this problem for a Eric Schmeeman a few professors to improve the quality of separated from the main 'ampus, is a part of few minutes a solution, if not more, would their teaching. Notre Dame Student Housing. Its residents come to mind. The great benefit of a course and teacher 
havt· every right to safe and reliable When I contemplated the problem I came evaluation review is that it brings academia transportation to and from N.D. up with the idea of having a rector or rectress one step closer to reality -(and I write this
Evaluations 
2 )Last week, I, my wife, and my friend alone supervise the parties. Although this is a hasty with all due respect having been a student for usnl the shunk to and from N.D. a total of45 solution it is one which seems practical. DearEditor, 18 years). In the non-university working times. This docs not include numerous other Considering Dean Roemer's position I hope The recent approval by the student senate world, a world in which tenure is not granted residents who I have also seen using it. If Ms. he has enough insight to solve this minor to allocate funds for course and teacher to employees, people have to "earn their Fosmoe had bothered to interview the Village problem. evaluations is a step in the right direction. stripes every day" and are recognized and rt·sitknts, her numhcrs would have he1·n Another item I wish to comment on is the Here at Notre Dame a single course costs rewarded on the basis of their efforts and quite different. dagger Dean Roemer holds to the backs of about 5600 and, given that high price-tag, stu­diligertce. 
3 )Ms. Fosmoe states that the new route N.D. students. The dagger I'm referring to is dents have every right to information about Published information will strongly en­shows a certain inflexibility. I beg to disagree. the 21 drinking age requirement. It seems that the courses and teachers that might affect courage the weakly performing professors to Some students' inability to accept the new whenever an issue of social life here at Notre their course selection decision. improve while recogn1zmg the profes­schedule is a sign of inflexibility. 1 Dame is·Nised Ro~mer puts pressure on the Just as any one who is in the market for a sionalism of the others. Thus, for the student 
4 )The condition of Douglas Road has no handle of the always evident dagger. stereo shops around comparing quality and senate to follow through on their resolution ht·aring upon the necessity of the shuttle Being able to "drink" in a social atmosphere price, the course and teacher evaluations will will be in the best interest ofall ofus. service to the Village. This is strictly a main· at college is just another lesson which the stu-allow students to choose classes and profes; Frank Hoffman tcnancc problem. 
S)The "enthusiasm" of the hus drivers is ir­rdevcnt. They do not use the service, thc:y are paid to drivc: the buses. 
Until this year, N.D. studc:nts werc: forced, hccaust· of inadt·quate hus service, to usc the secluded, unsafe, unlit path through the deserted field which lies between Douglas Road and ··Rape Road" to get to and from l.·ampus. 
Fortunatdy, the l lniversity has rectified this prohkm. Yet. a few students wish to neglect the sakty of the so-called "Minority" in order that tht·y he spared any "inconvenience:". 
K of C proposals 
Dear l:'ditor: 
In respon~t· to lkan Roemer's denial of the social rights of Notrt· Dame students, when I first rt·ad of Davt· McAvoy's proposal !i>r parties in tht· K ofC, I considtTed tht· restric· tion ami concluded that K of C would he an itkal plal.T to have hall parties. The available span· in tht· K of C shoud he put to usc 
lkan Rot·mcr's suggestion to "develop this he:wtiful location into a non-alcoholic cen-


Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic  
/lox fJ. :Vt •Ire name. /,\' ·16 556  I.! I 'J) .!3'J · 5303  Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare  
lhe Oh.wrt•t•r i~  tlw mdt·pt·mlcnt new~paper puhlbhctl hv tht· ~llldcnh of the Uni·  Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn  Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas  
\Tr~tty ol Notre Danlt' du Lat: and Saint :\!an··~ Collcgt· It dot·~ not nctT~~arilv reflect  News Editor ...... ........... Bob Vonderheide  Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen  
tht· poliut'' of lhe adnuni~tratJon  of t'itht-r tn~titution.  Tht· new' i~  n·portcd a~  at·  News Editor .................. Mark Worscheh  Composition Manager . ........ Suzaaun:: i..a Croix  
ntratdv and a' ohjecti\'d\' a~  P'"~thk  I ·n'l~ncd cditoriab rcprt·~t·nt the opinon of a  Saint Mary's Editor . .......... AnneJyiAM~I)I~ski  Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto  
m;Jf<>rllv ol the hltrorial Board Cornnll'ntane~. lt·Her~. and thr ln~idt· Column present  Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltou  System Manager  ............... Kevin Williams  
till' \'Jt·w~oftiJt•tr author' ( .olumn ~pace •~ a\'ailahle to all member~ ofthe t:ommunit\'.  Photo Editor  .................... Scott Bower  
and t ht· lrtT t·xpre,~ton of , . .Jrvmg optnuHl~ on t:ampu~. through kttt·r~. i~ cnt:ouragt·d  .\jmrts Editor...  ... \lichad Sullivan  


Founded November 3, 1966 

SO. CAROLINA Friday, October 7, 1983 • page 9 
an Observer sports supplement 

The Southtries to rise again 
ND looks to end jinx of southern opponents 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports W'riter 
When a Notre Dame football team travels south ofthe 
Mason-Dixon line, don't ever expect it to be greeted with 
good old-fashioned Southern hospitality. 
Indeed, ifone takes a look at Notre Dame's recent visits 
to Dixieland, hc would find that the Irish football teams 
have been subjected to some very ungracious welcomes 
-from the teams and the "fans." 

"It's enough in itselft::> come down here and play in front oftheir fans." said formtr Notre Dame All-American Luther Bradley after a hard fou)l.ht 13-6 win overSouth Carolina in 1976. 
Be it ofan anti-Cathol:c, anti-Northern. or just plain anti­Notre Dame sentiment, a lot ofSouthern folk downright despise the mystique thlt is associated with Notre Dame foothall. 
Such sentiment was ti rst seen in 1969 when the Irish played Georgia Tech in Atlanta. With Notre Dame holding a commanding 38-6 lead in the fourth quarter, Tech sup­porters hegan pelting the Notre Dame players and coaches on the sidelines with unopened cans ofCoke, whiskey bottles, cardboard squares, dead fish (for their Friday meal), and tightly pack·~d cups ofice. 
Fans wcren'tthe onlv ones enraged that day in Atlanta. 
Many Tech players accused Notre Dame ofdeliherately 
rolling up the score to 1mpress the pollsters. One player 
even showed his disdain for Notre Dame Head Coach Ara 
Parseghian by going up to him after the game and cutting 
loose a streak ofwhat Farseghian called "the dirtiest lan­
guage I've ever heard on a football field." 
Notre Dame's next visit to the South was at LSU in 1971. 
Tht· Irish upended the Tigers' hope for a national cham­
pionship the previous year with a late season .~-0 victory at 
Notre Dame Stadium. Therl· was perhaps never a more an­
ticipated game in Bayou county than that season-ending, 
nationally-televised contest at Baton Rouge. 

The sports editorfor 1:hc Baton Rouge newspaper vented his disdain for Notre Ikme that week. "If Notre Dame were playing Russia tomorrow," he wrote, "I'd be out there waving the old hammer and 
sickle." 

Meanwhile, the most popular bumper sticker that year 
in Louisiana eloquently said, "Go to hell Notre Dame." 
Led by the pinpoint passing of future All-Pro BertJones, 
and two early goal line stands by the LSU defense, the 
Tigers routed the Irish 28-8. 
Notre Dame made two visits to the South in 1976. The 
first was to Columbia, South Carolina to take on the 
Gamecocks. It was a show dominated by the Browner 
brothers of Notre Dame. Freshman Willard, who later 
transferred to lltah State, scored the game's lone touch-
Quarterback 

By ED DOMANSKY 
The BobbseyTwins 
Friends Smith and Brooks prove two heads are better than one 
.\ports W'riter 
Nicknamed the "Bohhscy Twins" by Hcad Coach Gerry Faust, Notre Dame fullbacks Chris Smith an<.! Mark Brooks provi<.le a "one-two punch" that is a nt"Ccs­sary ingredient in maintaining a succcssful running game. 
Both Smith and Brooks an: juniors and, likewise, they arc both from Cincinnati, Ohio. Smith attended LaSallt: High School. whilt: Brooks was cnrollcd at foothall powcrhousc. Moeller High School. 
Since arriving at Notre Dame, the two havt· hccomc the closest offriends, and now despite thc fact that they arc both competing for the same position, their friendship has not faltered. If anything. it has grown stronger. 
Looking back to where it all started, Brooks recalls. "The first time we really got to know each othcr was at a banquet towards the end oftlic season. l realized that he was being rccruitcd by Notre Dame and had in fact signed with thcm. and cvcr sincc thcn we've bccn han­ging out togcthcr." 
The fact that the two do spend a lot oftime together b just one reason for thc nickname "Bobbscy Twins" "lie (Faust) has called us the Bobhsey Twins ever since freshman year when we wcrc roommates."" says Smith. "and we just automatically know he's going to call us the Bohhscy Twins whenevcr we're togt·thn -cithn on or off the field. 
Their complt:mcntary athlt:tic ahilitics also Sl"l'm to make the nicknamt· vcry appropriate. ":"-Jaturall\· thne arc things that I think l do hettn than ~1ark. hut just the same. there arc othn things that he thinks he dot·s bet­ter than nll"... says Smith... But together l think \\T prctt\ 

much cover thc running. passing. and blocking aspects
Mark Brooks 
that arc rcquirnl of a fullback." Fullback 
see TWINS, page 10 

' ,~iilift\J ·. . 
· .~o-r-e.J;i.lUJ"!'.....LAC:~ W;.fH &&.~ 




SO. CAROLINA Friday, Octqber 7, 1983 • page 10 
A Gamecock Fight: The Irish will have their hands full with 
Carolina's veer, quickness, and rushing defense 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
\fl"rls lf'riler 
h will he a hank oftwo fill >I hall tt·am~ with ~omt·thing 
to prove when (,nry Fau~f~ Hghting lri~h take their l·l 
rtTonl to< .olumhia. <,outh <:arolina to take on .Joe :vtor· 
ri~on·~ ~·!. ( .amtTot·k~ hdi•n· a ~dlout t-rowd of.,!.,·tOO 
al \\ illiam,·Brin· Sladium. When lht· 6 p.m. EST kickoff· 
rolb around. Ihe lri~h will he looking to 'how their fan~ 
Ja.,l wn·k·., impre."'in· win ar <.olorado was ant·xample of 
Ihe real Noire Damt· foolhalllt·am, while lht· (;amt-cocb 
will he IIlii lo show I Ill' nation their up,ct of I 'S(. a week 
ago wa' nol a llul-;c 
llolh leam' w illelllt·r the game w ilh .,imilar ganu­
plan,. ·'I'm .,ure they'lllry I<> run the hall again't u.,, ju't 
likt· wl' will again'! Ihem." comments Fau~l. "They've got 
ln·memlous quickm·.,., hoth ofll:n,ivd\' and defensively, 
and Ihat 'cares llH' more than an\'lhing." 
Indent. Ihe quid.ne" l'auM 'peak.., of i' mo't apparenl 
in the <.arolina ground game. where the ( .anwcocb arc 
an-ragmg IH-,·anh pt-r umll',t. The~ reh· heavily on a 
pair of .,ophomore running hat·ks. Thomas Dendy and 
t-;ent ILlgood. lknth· i., a speed nwrchant, who gt·b 
arc 1und I ht t·ornt-r \\ell in the ( .amecock \'lTr oftt'lbt' II~· 
has compikd a(>. I ·\'anb·pt-r-carry a\Trage, and b a 'ure 
ht·l to .,hallt-r most of ( .eorgt· l{ogers' ru,hing record' at 
"outh Carolina. llagood runs oul ofthe full hack 'pot. and 
is a quick. hrui,ing runner :\IoM of lht· lime. he act' as a 
blocking hack for Ikmh. htH ht· b tht· man to look ti1r in 
shon-\'ardage siluation' 
AI quarlcrhad•. the< .amt'l'ot·ks rdy on ...ophomore AI· len :\litdwll Whik .\litchdl i' not known as a passing threat. he ha.., hcen quite good running tht· hall out oftht· option StilL .\lorrbon know' that Mitchell is t·apahk of pulling tht· hall in till' air ( !.H of';<) fi•r ';51 yartb ). if ntTt·.,.,ar\' Wht·n ht· tlot·s throw. :vtitchdl will look for l'ilhn llankn Ira llillan· ( I'; catchn fi1r l+l yartb) or tight t·nd l>ominquc llla,ingamt· (eight ren·ptions ti1r 
I!.0 \'ards ). 
\kanwhik. Notrt· DanK will tr\' to t·stahlish it' run· ning al tat·k. whidl picked up an amazing .H·t yards on the ground la't w tTK at <.olorado. <,ophonwre Allen Pinkett has been oulstanding in till' first fin1r g;ullt's, ranking I';th in tht·nalion with hh 10!. ~ \anb pt-r gamt· avt·ragc and ht· has a tint· ..upporting t·a,t behind him. l'ullhacb ( :hrb "milh anti .\lart. BrooJ.., ha\'c ;n-craged more Ihan six \ anb a c1rn hctWlTil 1hnn. \\ hik rt''t'f\T lailhat·k 
lli.m alha l'ran.,isu• nolt·hcs ncarh· st'\Tn \ ards ptT run. 
nmtinued from page 9 
( hTr I he fir.,l IW ll st·as<>ll' of their <·anTrs. holh have 
'<Til .1 ,·ariC'I\. of roll'~. <,nulh. IHI\\l'\t'L ha~ 'l'l'n lhe 
1111"1 ch;lllg<·., 
Ik hegall al :'><litre I>.1111<' "'a lailhad, Ill I'>HI ''hen he g.lillnl II>I 'ant.. oil 1 I Llrflt'' II is lop effort 'a\\ 111111 gant (,I 'ard., llneigllltarrit·, a., he matlt· hb tkhul 1n1he 'ea.'< Ill·., ''ll<'lling game .1ga111.,1 L<,l l'or I'JH!..Iw rt·que.,lnl.l dtang<· to linchat·J.t·r IIi., main dtllit·~. he"' ncr. '' er<· as l.ll kkr on .,pel'iall \ Icams and a~ an c"r.1 hlod;er in ...lwrl \ ardagt· .111d goal-lint· 'ilualions. \\ 11h .111 .ml>lt· injun lo (.reg lidI. <,milh rt·lurnnl to lht· oflcn,iH· haddicld 1c1 pro\ ide e"ra deplh lk carried Ihe h.IIJ "nh llllt l' .1nd gained lllur \ anb \Trst.-:-.:an 
,\Jtl'f .1 ,prmg hallk '' ith lin"'"' f.,r lh~S sc1~on's lllllltlwr cutt· full hat k spol. <,milh has emerged as Ihe lrlllll flllliH'r anti..Ill hough plc~Snl \\ ilh hi~ pnfor­mam t' "'l.1r. he ~I ill hopes 10 impn•n· "I sliiiiHTtl "ork on111\ hlot·king. proper pass r<llltt·~ and t'\Tn run· ning "Ill' "1\s "lsiill .,..,.m,"·tfa' .1 W"wing fullhact.. .111d I'm ju~l glling lo han· lo tlo IWitt'f all tht· \\a\ .lrlllllltl . 
"nlllh·, IWrl(•rman<T on Salllrtl.l\ againsl Colllradll t·arnnllllm 1 ht· a\\ ;1rtl for oul.,lanthng ofknsin· pia\ t'f of I he game pre~t·nlnl \HTI>h I" Ihe coadll's. "I IhoughI I pLI\ nl prt'll' \\ t'll ...... aid Smith. "hut 10 rnTIH'Ihe .1ward made n~t· it'd t'\Tnlwllt-r." In lilt' g;unt· he rushetllt·n 1 inH·s ami gained -o \anb. indutl· 111g a !.')-1 ani run for a I<H1t'hd11\\ n. lit· abo caugl11 one pa.,., f( •r I 1 \anb. 
llroob. on lht· ollll'r ham!. has htTn a fullhat·t. from Ihe lwg111ning of hi~ career. In his rool>it· st·a,..m hl· 'aw at'! ion in all htll t\\o game~ and gained I!.(• \'ard~ rus­hing Ik ;dso ~ulrt·d a toudulo\\ n again~! Air Forn· on a 
ll·\ ant run in•thl·lasl minute of till' gamt· Onh· .lot· lfllwartl pla\'nlmort· minutt·~ among till' 19H I fn·sh· man ofti:nsin· plan·r,. In 19Hl Hrook~ dt:mon~lratt·d that lw ulllld abo IK u~t·d a~ a rt't'l'iH·r as ht· pullnl in st·n·n rt'l't·ptions ti1r 1:\ yartls. Hn· oftht·st· came in tht· Arizona l'Ontest. Itis top ru~hing l)(:rti•rmant.'l' also ctmt· against Arizona as he t·arrkd tht· hall I-~ timt·~ antl loL.1llnl ,-';trd~. tk .,tartt·d thai ~amt· in plal'l' of an injurnll.arn ,\lllri;lrl\ 
In llJH.~ Brooks has !x'l'n dt·si~n;t(t·d tht· "nunllx·r tv. o" fullh;~o~.:t. IKhind hi.' tx·~t frit·nd Smith. hut Ihis 
dnignalion doesn't bother him. "There's no prohkm wilh lhat al all." he savs. "At lhe hq~inningofthc season we\\ ere hcllh inlilflnnl that wT would ht· ahk to con· lrihutt· a~ mud1 a~ possible \\·e would work as a tandem In each going a kw st·ries at a timt·. That way we could ho1h he fn·,h whl·n we Wt'fe in tht· game." 
\\ hik sharing dulies with Smith last Salllrday againsl the 1\utfalm·s. Broob ran fi1r t!. yards on lhree c1rrics. I lis highliglll \\a~ a 51-yard touchdown run. "It was \'lT}' t''-t'iling." he said. "hut a lot ofcrnlit has to go to the line fi1r making il pllssihlc." 
As far as Ihe compelit ion heiWlTn tht·st· 1wo frknds i~ contTrn~·tl. il is a factor Ihat onh· ~tTm~ lo aid eat·h <me·~ pcrf(•rmance. Running hat·t. l·oach ,\lal Moon· is ahk to dislingui~h lht· tint· dift.tTt'nt'l'S hl'IWTt'n the 1\\0. hul agrees 1ha11lu: compt·lilion is a real driving fort'l' "The\··re prell\' dose. ( >ne·, a little more omsis· lent in one area anti I he othn in anlltht·r area. They kind ofcllmpknll'111 e;ICh other. Ihough. thrllugh this role." lw sa\ s. "Thn· push each other anti that's what makes thun good. 11·, jusl pun· u•mpl'tition." 
Although they art· competing ti•r tlw same position. Smith feels thai compelition nu\· he too harsh ofa word lo tlt·,crihe lht· situation. "On the field we help each othn liUL \\ e horh pia\' a lot. and when he's in there or "hen I'm in there. we're hoth rooting ti1r one another." he ~;1\·s. "ll's no culthroat-11·pc deal where when he's in lhne. I'm hoping he's tilling had. Wl· ju~t pull ti1r t·ach ot hn. 
"I don'l I> now if nndl en-r tint! two hl'lll'r fril'nds \\ ho art· uHnpt·ting ti•r thl· sanll' spot. On and oft· tht· lidd \\ t' just gt·l along great." 
And Brook~ echot·s Smith's fcdings with similar ''ords. "Chris is m1· hcst frkntl ht'ft' at tbt· J. 't'lii\'t."rstt~·. and I just hopc that thin~s continul· ~o ~u. \\·dfmr us hoth." '< 
\\ ith Sl'H'n gamt·s still rt·maini~ kl thl~.~·;lsuil,.d1f:. "ont·-two pun<:h" proYidl-d ~·tit~· '·.onbhsey Twinj;," Smith and Brooks. shoultlcome in plt:nty ~and~· if1 kat!in!( rhe tcan1. As Moon· sn-s.it. lhl:« b .som~'J-intc unique. that is drh·ing theSt.: two ht'st friL'Ild!. W t'li.C:ti. "\\hat hi!~ to l'Xl'itt· you ahout lxllll. ~fl~1.~m ili l'luw much ht'lll'r tht·y can tx· throutth hac'-' wprk. i!JUl,J think thq st·nst· thb. If they kt·l·p pushin~ ea<:h otht·r. they coui4J ht.· n·n· ~mid ... 
Or th.q n1uld he nt·p tx·u~·r lhiln."n:ty ~Ku,t" 
Freshman signal-caller Steve Reut·rlein has rt·placed 
\'eteran Blair Kid as the starter at quarterback, and has 
shown a greal amount of poise. He also has shown the 
passes for 2')'; yards without an intnception. He has a bevy of targets at his disposal. induding fleet-footed split end Joe lloward ( I4 catches for I98 yards). steady tight end Mark Bavaro (seven rl'Ceptions for 79 yards), and speedy flanker Milt jackson (six catches for 158 yards). 
On defense. hoth duhs havt· heen strong against the run. The <;amecocb held llSC to a mere 49 yards on the ground in last week's 58-14 upset. The front line is anchored hy senior right tackle Ricky llagood. Hagood. the older brother of fullhack Kent Hagood, ohviously heat his hrothcr to the dining tahle many times, weighing in al l96 pounds. lie is hal: ked up by one of the finest linehackn trios around in Mike Durrah. J.D. Fuller, and Kt·nnt·th Robinson. Those three players have made 190 tackle., in Carolina's first five games, and they are one of Ihe primary reasonsjoe Morrison's cluh has a ;i-2 record. 
The Irish have a fine rushing defense of their own, 
allowing kss than one hundred yards per game on the 
ground. Junior end Mike (iolic has heen tht· most consb· 
tt·nt performer on the lint· this year. coming up with 22 
tackks and I I stops resulting in negative yardage. Fresh· 
man Mike (;riffin filled in well at the nose tackle position 
last week, hut Jon AUiry may come back 10 that place in 
lhc lineup if his ankk sprain has healed hy game time. 
The line has heen supported hy two fint· young linehackt·rs in Tony Furjanic and Mikt· Kovaleski, as well as the stt·ady play of veteran Ri<:k Naylor. Furjanic paces Ihe Irish in tackles with 60, while Kovaleski places second with .H. and Naylor is third with 26. 
If the game is close. it may come down to a battle he· tween two ofthl· hest field goal kickers in the nation, Mark Fkl'twood ofSouth Carolina and MikeJohnston of Notre Dame. Fleetwood was an honorable mention all· America selection in I')8l hy the AssociatedPress, and ht· has the range to kick from outside ';()yards. Johnston was selected to theSportingNeU's preseason All-America team this fall. hut has had a rough go of it this season, <:onnccting on·only three of seven attempts. 
Intensity will he the key factor, a<:cording to Faust. "I'm ~urc everyone in Columhia is sky high after heating a big· name team like liSC." comments the Irish mentor. "We've go110 play with intt·nsity l·arly. because they'll be oft' to 1he races if they can score early against us. \\'c:'ve ju~l got to play as well as we're capable and hope South 
• • • Twins 

tl 
A 
~ 
0 v 

Thomas Dendy  
Running back  
Carolina can't pull it off two weeks in a row."  r  
It comes down to two teams looking to move in the  <!  
same direction, whose paths will collide in Columbia  a,  
tomorrow night For one ofthese teams, it will he a big  
victory, and a real boost for the rest ofthe season. For the  
other, a loss will continue doubts about the program.  
Which team will take which path? We should have an  
answer around 9 p.m. tomorrow night.  


SO. CAROLINA Friday, Octqber 7, 1983 • page 11 
mtinued from page 9 
own in the first quarter while sophomore safety, Jim, lade the game-saving interception at the Notre Dame 15­ard line in the final minutrs to preserYe the 13-6 triumph. 
But Ross, the winner ofthe Outland frophy that year as a mior, was the most impressive Bc,ow1er on the field that ay. Browner recorded 11 tackles-five of them netting ~yards in losses -and also recovered a fumble. For his forts, he was named the AP "Lineman ofthe Week." Presi­~nt Gerald Ford made a special halftime appearance in 1at game, but as one headline put it, il was the nation's ·ecratary ofDefense," Ross Browner, who stole the show. 
Two weeks later, the 6-1 Notre Dame team traveled to lanta to take on a Georgia Tech team with a losing cord. Tech upset Notre Dame 23-14 <>n the field, and up­t them even more with their post-game comments. It was 
e thing to call Notre Dame players' fat and slow," hut it 
as another thing to call the Irish lineman "hog mollies"· d "mud womps." Te~h paid dearly for those remarks the next year when 
otre arne administered a 69-14 pounding on them at 
mth Bend. Notre Dame was just about everyone's pre-season pick 1977 to win the national championship, but apparently 
e Mississippi Rebels weren't too impressed. Waving 
ousands ofConfederate flags in the >tands,' and singing ndless renditions of"Dixieland," the fired-up Mississippi >othall team indeed became Rebels with a cause. In what as more ofa reenactment of the Civil War than a football me, the Rebels, a team that was to fin ish with three wins, 
anded the eventual national champions their only loss of c s~::ason on that September afternoon in Jackson. Six weeks later, the No. 5-ranked Notre Dame team jour­yt:d down to Greenville, South Carolina to take on the 
Iemson Tigers in their stadium that is ominously known "Death Valley." The Clemson student newspaper that week referred to e Notre Dame football team -for reasons unknown ­
·"The Golden B-B Heads." The abuse continued on game day in the stands and on e field as Clemson took a 1 7-7 lead : nto the fourth quar­
• • • Dixie 
ter. Two Joe Montana touchdowns led a couragous 21-17 victory for Notre Dame as it showed that it was worthy to be called a national champion. 
···That's what makes victory the sweetest," said an elated 
Notre Dame guard Ernie Hughes after the game. "When 
you overcome adversity and still come from behind to win, 
that makes victory even greater." 
After the game, a death threat was made on Notre Dame Head Coach an Devine, and the scoreboard, for some mys­terious reason, put a 0 in place of Notre Dame's 21 points while leaving Clemson's 17 points unchanged. It left other Notre Dame players quite disgusted. "Football is just a game," said Notre Dame linbackerBob Golic. "I think some of these people look at it as something more than that." 
In 1978, it was back to Atlanta to play Georgia Tech again. This time, though, Notre Dame put on its most im­pressive offensive performance ofthe year. Vagas Ferguson rushed for a Notrt: Dam~:: record of255 yards and Montana completed his final I 0 passes -tying a Notrt: Dame record 
-in kading the Irish to a 38-21 win. 
No insults were hurkd from the Gt:orgia Tech locker­
room this time, but the fans got into the act by hurling their 
debris onto the Notre Dame sideline again. 
"The fish stunk," refkcted Devine after the game. "Tht: 
ice stung. The eggs (a new projectile in the arsenal) were a 
bit ofa surprise." 

The largest attendance ever in Tt:nnessee, 86,489 
people, greeted Notre Dame the next year at Knoxville in 
what was termed as one of the most important games in 
Tennesse history. The Volunteers proceeded to give the 
Irish a 40-18 whipping. The trip was more worthwhile for 
some of the Notre Dame players than the previous excur­
sions to the South. 

"The hills here are so pretty," said Notre Dame quarter­back Rusty Lisch, a person who always kept football in perspective, after the game. 
It wasn't very pretty going into Atlanta again the follow­ing year. Ranked No. 1 in the nation with a 7-0 mark, Notre Dame was fortunate to come out with a 3-3 "loss" against a lowly Georgia Tech team. The only things hurled at Notre Dame players and coaches after this game was mocking laughter by the Tech fans against the so-called No. 1 team that needed a 47-yard Harry Oliver field goal in the final minutes to secure a tie against a 1-7 team. 
The Irish redeemed themselves the following week at 
Alabama. Despite war cries of"We owe it to Coach Bryant 
(who had never beatt:n Notre Dame in three previous 
tries)" by the Crimson Tide players, Notre Dame put on 
one ofits most spectacular defensive performancesever to 
shut out Alabama, 7-0. 

"I feel like I wasted an afternoon," said a dejected "Bear" 
Bryant afterwards. 

It was one of the few times that the long flight back 
North was a pleasant and memorable for a Notre Dame 
football team. 

The last two trips to the Southfor the Irish have been to 
Miami in 1981 and 1983. Enough said. 
And now, the Irish dare to enter the South again. 
"It'll be a real battle for us down there," says Notre Dame Head Coach Gerry Faust. He ain't just whistlin Dixie, either. 
SOUTH CAROUNA IJFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT Cl E 55 MlkeGollc 6-5 251 Jr. 


SE 2 ChrlsWade 6-1 204 Jr. 56 Robert Banks 6-5 235 Fr. 5 Eric Poole 6-0 178 So. FT 78 MlkeGann 6-5 256 Jr. 
TV 
LT 57 Carl Womble 6-4 265 Jr. 71 Eric Dorsey 6-5 256 So. 71 Jeff Teague 6-6 275 Fr. NT 38 Jon Autry 6-2 246 Sr. LG 77 Jim Walsh 6-3 268 Jr. 94 Mike Griffin 6-4 235 Fr 69 George Smith 5-11 245 Sr. CT 77 nm Marshall 6-4 257 Jr. c 55 Tom Gamer 6-2 246 Jr. 92 Greg Dingens 6-5 257 So. 
Your 

59 Wes Arrowood 6-3 263 So. LB 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 227 Sr. RG 65 Cas Danielowskl 6-2 247 Sr. 43 Rick D1Bernardo 6-3 228 So. 62 Del Wilkes 6-3 254 Jr. LB 58 Tony Furjanic 6-2 231 So. 
RT 76 Rusty Russell 6-6 295 Sr. 87 Joe Bars 6-5 237 Jr. 67 Bill Barnhill 6-4 245 Jr. LB 49 Mike Kovaleski 6-2 210 Fr.
Guide 
TE 35 ·Dominique 47 Tom Murphy 6-2 219 Sr. Blasingame 6-2 230 Sr. CB 30 Stacey Toran 6-4 206 Sr. 82 Curtis H1ll 6-2 237 So. 12 Troy Wilson 5-11 170 Fr. QB 11 Allen Mitchell 6-0 172 So. CB 40 Pat Ballage 6-2 197 So. 18 Jim Desmond 6-1 185 So. 48 John Mosley 6-1 248 Sr. FB 32 Kent Hagood 6-0 218 So. ss 9 Chris Brown 6-1 196 Sr. 34 Todd Berry 6-0 212 Sr. 34 Daane Spiel-
When the Irish 

HB 31 Thomas Dendy 5-10 187 So. maker 6-1 203 Sr. 9 Quinton lewis 6-0 200 Jr. FS 23 Steve Lawrence 6-0 180 Fr. FL 1 Ira Hillary 5-11 187 Jr. 11 Scott Rogers 6-0 180 Fr.
line up onoffense 
4 Emory Bacon 5-11 168 Jr. p 5 BlairKiel 6-1 206 Sr. K 1 0 Mark Fleetwood 5-10 184 Sr. 1 0 Dave Meadows 5-11 180 Sr. 16 Scott Hagler 5-8 155 So.
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL SE 24 Joe Howard 5-9 171 Jr. SOUTH CAROLINA DEFENSE 
3 Alonzo Jefferson 5-9 172 Fr. LE 47 James Sumpter 6-2 218 Jr. 
When the
QT 75 Larry Williams 6-6 284 Jr. 93 Tony Guyton 6-1 218 So. 65 Greg Golic 6-7 263 Sr. LT 98 Paul Martin 6-3 255 Sr. QG 53 Tom Doerger 6-5 272 So. 95 Jim Thomas 6-2 250 Jr. 
Gamecocks
54 Tim Scannell 6-4 270 So. RT 97 Ricky Hagood 6-2 296 Sr. c 63 Mike KaNey 6-5 269 Jr. 94 Glenn Woodley 6-0 236 Jr. 62 Ron Plantz 6-4 266 So. RE 88 WIHie Mctntee 6-2 219 Fr. 
line up on
SG 79 Nell Maune 6-5 278 Sr. 9{) Frank Wright 6-3 283 Jr. 52 Shawn Heffern 6-5 254 So. LB 84 Kenneth Robin-ST 76 Mike Perrino 6-5 271 So. aon 6-2 228 'So. 
offense
59 Tom Rehder 6-7 22.5 Fr. 48 Anthooy Bailey 6-1 225 Sr TE 82 Mark Bavaro 6-4 24ll So. t.B 42 Vlke Durrah 6-0 Ut Sr. 85 Brian Behmer 6-6 218 Jr. 46 Willie Htll 6.,0 225 Sr. QB 7 S1eve Beuel'leln 6-3 1t!l Fr. LB 43 J.D. Fuller 6-2 225 Sr. 5 Blair Kiel 6-1 206 Sr. 41 Jimmy Gatling 6-1 11M So. F8 32 CtlrlsSmlttl 6-2 231 Jr. LC 22 Earl Johnson 6-1 184 .lr. 35 Mark Brooks 6-3 228 Jr. 33 Scott Stevenson 5-11 176 .Fr. T8 28 Allen Pinkett 5-9 184 So. ss 23 Gary IIIyan 6-t 1to Jr. 33 Hiawatha Fran-8 Glenn laGrande 6-1 200 Jr. CISCO 5-10 185 Fr. FS 28 Bryant Gilliard 6-1 110 Jr. Fl t Milt J.ilokaen w 111 So. 21 Rick Rabune 5-10 172 Jr. 1 7 Alvin Miller ~ 6-4-..-o Fr. RC 39 Cllrla Mlljor 5-10 -171 Fl". K 4MIIIe~ 1-11 11$ Sf. 24 Hinton Taylor 5-10 173 Jr.
,.

8 John Carney 5-10 170 Fr. 13 Chris Norman 6-3 1tl Sr. 
SO. CAROLINA Friday, Octqber 7, 1983 · page 12 


NOTRE DAME VS. SOUTH CAROLINA 
THE AME 


THE STATISTICS 
GTD PAR-PAS FG TP PASSING G NO co PCT INT YDS TO 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. South Carolina Gamecocks 

Bell 3 5 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 30 K1el 4 69 35 .507 5 444 4
SITE: Williams-Brice Stadium ( 72,400) 

Johnston 4 013-13 0-0 0 3-8 22 Beuerlein 3 38 22 .579 0 295 0
TIME: 6 p.m. EST; Saturday. Oct. 8, 1983 

Bavaro 4 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Grooms 1 2 0 .000 0 0 0 
lV-RADIO: WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) 

Pinkett 4 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 K. Smith 1 2 0 :000 0 0 0 
Abraham 1 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Howard 3 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 NO 4 110 57 .518 5 739 4 
JeffJeffers and Jack Nolan 

Smith 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 OPP 4 127 71 .559 6 780 5 Brooks 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
PUNT RET NO YDS AVG TO LGTeam 3 0 0-0 0-0 1 0-0 2

9 a.m. Sunday WNDlJ-TV ( Ch. I6) 
Bell 10 55 5.5 0 13

41313-13 0-0 1 3-8102 
Howard 2 -2 -1.0 0 1
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 

4 7 6-7 0-0 0 3-4 57 
Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
NOTRE DAME 12 53 4.4 0 13
WNDU-AM I SOO 

RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG OPPONENTS 8 54 6.7 0 30 
SERIES: Notre Dame 2, South Carolina 0 

Pinkett 4 73 409 5.6 2 36 

DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK 
Smith 4 31 184 5.9 1 29 Bell 3 33 163 4.9 4 50 

Fuqanic 27 1-6 1 0 0
LAST MEETING: Notre Dame 18, South Caronna I 7 

Francisco 3 19 130 6.8 0 33 Kovaleski 26 2-4 3 1 0
October 27, I979 

Brooks 4 11 75 6.8 1 31 Golie 22 6-15 1 1 0 
Grooms 2 33 16.5 0 25 Naylor 20 0-0 0 0 0 Flemons 4 33 8.2 0 34
RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, South Carolina unranked 
Johnson 17 2-2 2 0 0 

Machtolf 1 4 13 3.2 0 9 Toran 17 0-0 0 0 0
TICKETS: (iame is sold out 

Abraham 3 7 10 1.4 1 10 Brown 17 1-1 3 0 0 
Howard 4 2 10 5.0 0 6 Ballage 16 0-0 1 0 0 Carter 1 2 9 4.5 0 9 Marshall 14 5-13 1 1 0 
Kiel 4 13 0 0.0 0 7 Autry 11 1-2 1 1 0 Beuerlein 3 8 -11 -1.4 0 8 Gann 10 1-5 0 0 0 
Mosley 9 1-1 0 0 0
THE SCHEDULE 

NO 4 209 1058 5.1 9 50 Murphy 9 0-0 0 0 OPP 4 135 395 2.9 2 34 
Dingens 8 1-2 1 0 0 Griffin 8 1-1 0 0 0 RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG Kleine 6 0-0 0 0 0
SOUTH CAROLINANOTRE DAME 
DIBernardo 6 0-0 0 0 0
SEPT. 3 lost to N. Carolina, 24-8SEPT. 10 def. Purduc, S2-6 

Howard 4 14 198 14.1 1 58 McCabe 4 0-0 0 0 0
SEPT. 10 def. Miami(Ohio), 24-3
SEPT. 17lost to MSU, 28-23 

Pinkett 4 9 67 7.4 0 14 Butler 4 0-0 0 0 0 
SEPT. I 7 def Duke, 31-24 

Bavaro 4 7 79 .11.3 2 18 Spielmaker 4 0-0 0 0 0 Jackson 4 6 138 23.0 0 61 Lawrence 4 0-0 2 1 0 
SEPT. 24 lost to Miami (Fla.), 20-0 SEPT. 24 lost to Georgia, 3I-I3OCT. I def. Colorado, 27-3 

Bell 3 6 65 10.8 1 23 Dorsey 3 0-0 0 0 0
OCT. I def Southern Cal, 38-14OCT. Hat South Carolina 

Smith 4 5 48 9.6 0 16 Corsaro 3 0-0 0 0 c
OCT. 8 NOTRE DAME OCT. I c; Army at Meadowlands 

3 3 45 15.0 0 18 Banks 3 0-0 0 0 II 
OCT. 22 at Louisiana State 

3 3 36 12.0 0 15 Wilson 0-0 0 0 0 4 2 32 16.0 0 16 Miller 0-0 0 0 0 
OCT. 22 SOUTHERN CAL OCT. 29 N. CAROLINA STATE OCT. 29 NAVY 

4 25 25.0 0 25 Abraham 0-0 0 0 0
NOV. c; at Florida StateNOV. c:; PITTSBURGH 

3 6 6.0 0 6 Francisco 0-0 0 0 0
NOV. 12NAVY NOV. 19 AIR FORCE 
NOV. I 2 at Pcnn State NOV. I9 CLEMSON 

4 57 739 13.0 4 61 NOTRE DAME 272 19-41 17 5 0 780 11.0 5 81 OPPONENTS 397 22-56 27 2 3 



PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a 
game The person must pick a winner 
given the underdog points. 

Louie Somogyi Mike Sullivalfi Will Hare jane Healey David Dziedzic joe Plane Kevin Howard Sports Writer Spons Editor Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Editor-in-Chief <Jues1 Cekhrity Random Student 32-23 28-27 27-28 27·28 23-32 23-32 26-29 .582 .509 .491 .491 .418 .418 .473 
Mkhigan ovt·r MICIIIGAN STATE by 14 Spartans Wolverines Wolverines Spartans Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Alabama over PENN STATE by H Tide Lions Tide Tide Lions Tid'l-Tide PrtTSIIliRGH over Florida State by I. 'i Seminoles Seminoles Panthers Seminoles Seminoles Panthers Seminoles Nebraska ovt·r OKIAIIOMA STATE by 24 Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Illinois ovn WI~'CONSIN by 2 lllini Badgers lllini lllini lllini lllini Badgers TEXAS over Oklahoma by -~-'i Longhorns Longhorns Sooners Sooners Sooners Longhorns Longhorns liCI.A over STANFORD by 'i Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Cardinals Bruins Bruins l.~ll over TENNESSEE by.~ Tigers Volunteers Volunteers Tigers Tigers Tige" Tigns Auburn on-r KENTIICKY by 7. 'i Eagks Eagles Tigers Eagks Eagles Eagles Eagles 
<;<·orgia mTr MISSISSIPPI by f.j Bulldogs Rebels Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Rebels Bulldogs TEXAS A& i\1 on·r Houston hy I I Cougars Aggies Cougars Aggies Cougars Aggies Aggies INDIANA on·r Minnesota by I 0 Gophers Gophers -Hoosiers Gophers Gophers Hoosiers Gophers Notre Dame over SOliTII CAROLINA by 7. 'i Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 

~----------~ 

Showcase 
Friday, October 7, 1983 -page 13 
letters to a lonely God 
The class list 
Later, his mother told me one entire
by Rev .. Robert Griffin 

rib had been eaten up by the cancer. features columnist Bob died at the end ofSeptember af­ter two months' illness. The Glee T ife, they say, is what happens keeps close to you." When my own 
Club sang the funeral mass. .I...Jwhik you're making plans. I've grandmother died, I told her, I felt 
His former ND roomate also died been trying to write a letter c.fcon­very lonesome. So many things 
ofcancer. He was to play the guitarsolation to the parentsofBriart Bues­reminded me ofher: every time I ate 
while Bob sang "Wayfarin' Stranger"cher, feeling very limited be<ause I a sugar cookie, I remembered Nana. 
" at my sendoff. Another Bob, from did not know Brian as a studellt. This Every time I opened a Bible, a book 
Stanford, died in a bike accident on morning, a clipping sent by Brian's she taught me to love, I would think 
my birthday; today is the anniver­mother came in the mail: " Ensign ofmy grandmother's love ofGod. 
sary ofhis death. Peterwas a law stu· Brian G. Buescher, 22, was fcund The people who are special to our 
dent. His wife called me in NewYork dead in his Orlando, Florida, apart­lives are always near, as we see them 
from the hospital room where Peter ment at 8 a.m. Sunday." Brian's mot­in a room, oras they come back to us 
died five minutes later; I could hear her wrote me: "Last Sunday, the with the aliveness ofa sacred 
his labored breathing. I was at the Navy informed us of Brian's death. memory when we think ofthem. 
movies seeing "Young Frakenstein." He was an '83 graduate of Notre "Sometimes," I said, "They wait for 
Last year, from PW, there was Lisa. In Dame, a school he was proud ofand us to think ofthem." ~ 
Brooklyn, Isaid Steve'sfuneral Mass; loved so much. Since then he~ has At 58, my galery ofbeloved ghosts 
in Washington, I had the servicesfor been in Florida at the Naval Nuclear is pretty full. In my first year as rec­
Mike Madden. Power School ..." tor ofKeenan, a student named 
The necrology goes on, like the Wednesday, going to the post Robert lived in the hall. The second 
class list ofMr. Chips: students I have office, I was wondering how to column I ever wrote for The Ob­
known; students I have heard of; stu­celebrate my birthday. Today I am server was his obituary piece. He had 
dents I wish I had been close to. 58 years old. Wednesday, bel'ore the a remarkable voice, and used to sing 
Three years ago, Holy Cross Father mail came, I would have lied about at my five o'clock Sunday Masses. 
Bill Toohy died. Every death, espe­my age. After seeing a picture: of the One night in the rector's room, he 
cially his, has diminished and en­22 year old ensign, I have mixed sang one ofmy favorites: "I'm just a 
riched us. A song stirs the memory. A feelings about having lived so long. poor, wayfarin' stranger/ Wandering 
place brings back a conversation. WhenJohn Kennedy died, Adlai through this world ofwoe. There is 
Laughter reminds us ofother times Stevenson, that elder statesman no sickness, toil, or danger/ In that 
we have laughed. Our God is the mourning the fallen leader, said: "I dear land to which I go./ I'm goin' to 
Lord ofthe dead as well as the living:would give all that I have ifI could see my Father/ I'm goin' home no 
heaven and earth are in communion have been struck down in his place." more to roam/ I'm just agoin' over 
as long as love is active. 
Each ofus must do his own dying, Jordan/ ...?" 
From their places in heaven, our but the world would be better offif "Someday, when you come to 
friends send down the Spirit ofcon· old men could leave the scene ifit Notre Dame for my funeral," I said 
solation, as though the Lord allowed meant the young men could live all morbidly, "you must sing that song." 
them a Pentecost, as when the as­the years that seem to be promised When Bob went home for summer 
cended Christ gave the Holy Spirit to them. vacation after his junioryear, I felt al­
the Church. I have watched the tear­I knew a little girl who became most envious ofthe adventures that 
stained, grace filled faces at our very indignant when her grandmot­awaited him at the age of 20. In 
funeral Masses. No death has hap­her died unexpectedly. "Nana August, I got a letter from his mot­
pened apart from the will ofGod. should not have left us without her: "This is the hardest letter I have 
Our darkest griefs are invitations to saying goodbye," she complained. ever written ...Bob has can-
the feast oflife, because God is "Nana should have told me slle was cer ...The doctors give him less 
touching our hearts with immortal going away." The child was heart­than a year." 

longings.broken over the unreliability ofa 
In August, I visited Bob in the While I was tryingto write a letter grandmother she had depended on 
hospital. "I won't be at Notre Dame that would be helpful to Mrs. Bues­so much. 
this semester," he said, "but some cher, she wrote a letter that -· 
"Honey," I said, doing the best I Sunday, I'm going to sneak back for consoled me. A young ensign has could to explain, "Your grandmot­the five o'clock Mass, and surprise died and gone to heaven. Hearing her, even though she's in heaven, everyone when I start singing." about him adds a blessing to my life. 
records 
The l>resent and the past 
who remembers "Gemini Dream" and "The Voice" from Long Dis­
by Vic Sciulli 

tance Voyager will say. Two years
features staff writer 

______...:....__ ago, both songs made the Top Ten, giving the band precious airplay
W
hat business do aging return, this time with former Yes over AM (gasp!) as well as FM sta­"space rock" stars, like the keyboardist Patrick Moraz. Long tions, powering the LP to I. Sudden­Moody Blues, have putting out al­Distance Voyager folllowed in ly the Moodies were back at the top,
bums more than I5 years af:er they I981. a surprise to many who felt the
first got together? These guys have Yes, there have been some con­band's sound had long since been
seen the age offlower children and cessions in the band's sound, espe­outdated.
protest come and go; how can they cially in the past few years. The band 
The three most pop oriented
get away with playing virtually the decided to divide their latest album 
songs on The Present have the same
same style ofmusic thay they played into two sounds; the first side chance to repeat their performance.
so long ago? represents a more commercially ac­"Sitting at the Wheel", the first
Though The Present, the Moody's cessible direction than what the 
single, is a musical clone of
latest album is a far cry from the band has played in the past. "Gemini." Like "Gemini," it is
simple, stripped-down sound that is Side two is pure Moodies, dominated by heavy keyboard work
becoming chara,cteristic of music however, and old-timers won't be from Moraz. Lodge's vocals, normal­
today, there's something ve1y disappointed; there are some real ly restrained because ofthe material,
satisfying about listening to them. gems on it. "Running Water" is one rises to the occassion here and cul­
Maybe it's Patrick Moraz's lush ofthese, featuring Hayward's serene, minates in a crecendo ofkeyboards,
keyboard/synthesizer or the serene flowing vocals and gentle pounding drums and screaming
vocal performances of}ustiu keyboards. Pensive and sad, the 
guitars. "Blue World" is another like­
Hayward andJohn Lodge. Some of lyrics evoke a sense oflonging, ly hit for the band. In this song, a
the good things have not changed characteristic of much ofthe band's simple bass line and beautiful back­
much and the Moody Blues are one earlier sound. Time hurries on 
ground vocals add
ofthese things; the band is one ofthe Look and its gone last megagroups of the late 60s and The changing of the autumn tide early 70s that is still around playing The hopes that live this genre of music. The dreams that die 
The band has had a rich and in­Ifl could have you by my side fluential history since its formation I'd give it all away in the late 60s. They will always be "Going Nowhere" is another of remembered for the epic "Nights in these gems. "It's Cold Outside of White Satin" which six year:; after its Your Heart" is a nice surprise, high­original release reached I in the U.S. lighted by a country sounding and has become an FM standard. The acoutic guitar perwrmanct!'. band followed it with seven! more Chances are, however, that it's smashes before breaking up in I974 side one that you are going to hear to pursue personal interest!>. The more ofon the radio. The definitive Octave album in I978 marked their pop sound is no accident, as anyone 

•THEATRE 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production of"The Skin of Our Teetlll" by Thornton Wilder, opens tonight at 8 p.m. in O'LaughlilnAuditorium on the Saint Mary's campus. Wilder's antic fantasy, a Pulitzer Prize winner in I943, traces the history of mankind through the ages and has been acclaimed as one ofthe greatest <:omic masterpieces ofali time. As one critic wrote ofthe first prodution, "It's so cock-eyed even a sphinx would die laugh­ing." The show is directed by associate professor Dr. Reginald Bain, andwill run October 7, 8, I3-I5. Tickets are available by calling 284­4626. 
•DANCJ~ 
Crowds will again fill Chautauqua at the traditional Chance to Dance, which begins tonight at 9:30. The dance will feature The Kinetics ;md admission is S I. 
•MUSIC 
The University Artist Series in the Notre Dame Department of Music is sponsoring two concerts that offer a historical perspective on the dt:velopment ofsolo literature for the cello. The first, a Viola da gamb~1 Recital by Enid Sutherland and Penelope Crawford, begins Saturday night at 8: I 5 in the AnnenburgAuditorium. ACello Recital by the Braginsky/Remenikova Duo begins at 4 p.m. Sunday, also in the Annenburg. Those who attend the Saturdayeveningconcert will be admitted to the Sunday performance free ofcharge. For informa­tion call Eric Kuehner at 239-6201. 
•ART 
The Elkart}uried Regional Art Exhibition opens today at the Mid­west Museum ofAmerican Art in Elkhart. The showis a competition featuring works ofall media created by residents ofnearby counties. Cash awa1rds will be made. For more information call239-6660. 
Abner Hershberger will present "A Sense ofPlace," a lecture on his art, in the Activities Room ofthe South Bend Art CenterSundayat 2 p.m. Following the talk, an opening reception will be given for Hershbe1rger's exhibit, entitled "Abner Hershberger: Recent Work," featuring~ abstract paintings, collages and prints that display an in­timatll rdationship with the landscape. 
The Student Drawings Traveling Exhibition ofthe National As­sociation ofSchools ofArt and Design continues at the galleries of the Moreau Fine Arts Building. 
eMOVIJES 
The cllassic historical movie "Reds," starring Warren Beatty and Diane Koeaton is being co-sponsored by the Student Union, Student Government, and the Center for Social Concerns. The three-hour picture, which looks at the Bolshevik Revolution from an American journalist's point ofview, as well as paints a colorful picture ofearly twentielth century America, will be shown tonight and tomorrow night in the EngineeringAuditorium at 6:30 and I 0 p.m. Admission is 
$1. 
The Friday Night Film Series' feature tonight is "Dr. Strangelove: or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb," a 1964 nightmarish comedy that portrays a U.S. president and the premier ofRussia cooperating in a bizarre effort to save the world from total disaster. The film is an example ofscreen satire at its finest. Admis­sion for the 7:30 show is $2. 
The Monday Night Film Series is presenting at 7-p.m. "Monsieur Hulot's Birthday," a 1953 Frenchfilm in which the well-meaningand delightfi11lly inept Mr. Hulot turns a seaside vacation into a flawless series ofsightgags. At 9 p.m. Gene Kelly and Debbie Reynolds team up in "Singin' in the Rain," one ofthe finest musical comedies ofall time, set during the era when movies were changing from silent to talkies. 
Also on Monday, SOLA is presenting a 20-minute documentary 
film called "U.S. Bishopsand Central America," followed by an infor­
mal discussion with R.S. Pelton C.S.C., who has had eight years ofex­
perience in the Archdiocese ofSantiago de Chile and who has been 
an Obst:rverfor the Catholic ReliefServices in Guatemala, Honduras 
and El Salvador refugee camps. The film and discussion will be in the 
Center for Social Concerns. 
•NAZ2: 
TdniiPJtJohn Tyler will perform at the Nazz, beginning at 9 p.m., with an open stage to follow. Saturday Gary O'Brien will present a magic and comedy act, with an open stage again to follow. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
Saturday in the ACC the Detroit Pistons (Kelly Tripucka and Bill 
Laimbeer)will play the Indiana Pacersstartingat 2 p.m. The game is 
a b~nefit for Logan Center and in gratitude to ND/SMC students for 
their hdp at Logan, the Center is offering halfprice tickets of S3 for 
Lower Arena and S I.,?O for bleachers for students. All proceeds will 
go to Logan Center. 
Saturday night is Undergraduate Night at Senior Bar. For a n 
cover charge, any student can go in the bar during or after the game 
and enj1oy the 25 cent Coke specials. No alcohol will be served. 

I 
Sports Briefs 
Digger Phelps,Irish basketball coach, has already made his first catch for the class of 1988. Matt Beeuwsaen, a 6-6, 203­pound swlngman from Mater Dei High School in Santa Ana, Calif., has verbally committed to come to Notre Dame next fall. Last year, Beeuwsaen was named Orange County Player of the Year after averaging 17.4 points and 8.9 rebounds per game for Mater Dei, 
annually one of the top high school teams in the country. -The Obsen,er 
Tomorrow is National Running and Fitness Day and the NVA Office is urging students to recognize the day by doing some­thing to promote running. The Domer Six-Mile Run is just one ofthe ways in which to do this. -The Obseroer 
The fourth annual running of The Human 
Race is set for 10 a.m. on Saturday, October 15. The 10-kilometer footrace and fun run art· sponsored by the Broadway Christian Parish United Methodist Church and the South Bend YMCA. The race is a fund-raising event for both organizations. Registration forms for the race can be obtained at Broadway Christian Parish, the YMCA, the Athlete's Foot in University Park Mall, and the Athletic Annex stores in Scottsdale Mall and the University Commons. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball
team beat Indiana/Purdue-Indianapolis last night to raise their sea.'K>n record to 6-12. The match scores were 1 S-13, 10-1 S, 1 S-2, I 1-1 S, 1S-1 0. More on the volleyball team will appear next week. ­
The Obsen,er 

Friday, October 7, 1983 page 14 
The Non-Varsity Athletic Office has an­
nounced its next set ofdeadlines. Wednesday, October 12 has been set as the deadline for the grad volleyball tournament as well as the co-ree basketball league. October 12 is also the deadline for men's ream racquetball, a ditferent concept for racquetball competition. Women's team racquetball and staff-faculty team racquetball deadlines are the same day. Ifyou have any questions, call239-6100. 
-The Obseroer 
Anyone interested in joining a grad/faculty soccer league, call the Non-Varsity Athletics office (239-6100) and leave your name and number. -The Observer 
I" 
The Wind Surfing Club is having a meeting tomorrow at 2 p.m. at St. joe's Beach. All members are asked to bring pnx>fofinsurance. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's basketball tryouts will start 
Sunday, October 9 from 1-3 p.m. in the Angela Athletic-Facility. 
The Obseroer 
The Inlternational Student Organiza­tion is forming a soccer team. If you are an international student and are interested in playing, sign up at the 1.S.O. office, or call 232· 7423. -The Obseroer 
Niekro hangs up knuckler 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Phil Niekro, ma.~ter of the knuckkball, is leaving the At­lanta Braves after a 20-ycar-career spent bedeviling National League batters. 
Niekro, who has never pitched for another major league club, would not confirm outright his leaving the club, but Braves executive vice president AI Thornwell did it for him. 
"We decided at our staff meeting ncar the end of the season that Niekro would not return as a starting pitcher," Thornwell told the Atlanta Constitution. 
Niekro said only: ''I'm cleaning out my locker at the stadium Friday morning. That should tell you some­thing. I'll answer all the questions asked me at that time, and I have no further comment now. 
Niekro struggled at the beginning of this year, but won nine of his last 13 decisions to finish I 1-10. He has a career record of 268-230. 
Th~ Observer Lafortune office accepts classified 
advenising from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through 
Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on 
the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 11:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Fnday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by 
mail Charge is ten ents per seven characters, per day. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 

IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL (312) 742-1142, EXT. 7316 
T ypmg ALL K !NOS 277-8534 alter 5.30 
2001 
Thurs& Fri 
7,9:30,12 PM 
KoiC Hall 
$1. Members Free 
PRO· TYPE 12 yrs. expenence Specializing 1n dissertatiOns. manuscripts, theses, and student papers. Call277-5633 for rates. 
q 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST LADIES MAROON WALLET CONTAINING S.DRIVER"S LICENSE.PHOTOS. OTHER 10. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LAURA AT NO 2989 
LOST. roll of F1lm, 135-24exp 400 ASA Lost at South d1n1ng hall piCtures are If· replacable, please call L1bby at -3435 
lOST: Woman·s gold Se1ko watch. Lost near Grotto Please call277-3409 
LOST: 1 BLUE BOOKBAG. TAKEN FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL MON.,OCT. 3 PLEASE RETURN TO BRIAN LEE (X6741) AS SOON AS POS· SIBLE, OR AT LEAST PUT IT BACK IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL 
FOUND: CROSS pen 1n LaFortune See Shirley at THE OBSERVER office 
FOUND. STOPWATCH AT BURKE MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE CALL ERIC AT 8192 TO IDENTIFY 
LOST. Red notebook, INTRO to ELECTRICAL NETWORKS. Len 111 127 Ne1u Sc1 on Fnday, 9/30 after blow1ng a networks test Since rt belongs to my roommate, he's not too happy erther. If anyone flnds lh1s useless book. call B1ll X1087. 
LOST: Tl58 Calculator. N18uwland Science Hall on 10/5/63. Reward Call Michael McCarthy. 6294 
LOST one black Tl-30 calculator 1n 3rd noor physiCs lab call 6719 ~found 
L.......-F_O_R_R_E_NT___,j 
wanted 2 roomates lor N. D opts call 23491t6or 110t 
WANTED 
• 

I need 6 GA to any home game call Dan al234·6496 
Den from NJ ThiS IS Ted, your nde home the weekend of the 6th. Call 1779 ~ you st11i want to go 
Need nde to U of I Champa1gn Oct 14-16 DESPERATE! Share costs call Fran 2270 
Alders needed to ,Minnesota. Leaving Oc­tober 13 Call Ann 5262(SMC) 
NORTH CAROLINA Desperately (I) need nde for break. PLEASE call Jim at 107011 
PITTSBURGH Need RIDERS lor 10/14­t0/16. Call Jim att070. 
I"M GOING TO U ~ I CHAMPAIGN TODAY AT 5 UNTIL SUNDAY NEED RIDERS CALL 6660 TODAY BEFORE 5 
Responsible babysitter needed part time days for irlfant and three year old in my home lUSt north of campus. Sitter wrth own child ok. Call Jennifer 239-7278 Mon­Fri. 
WANTED· Two riders to Dallas for Oc­lober break. I will be leaving friday Uctober 21st Call Chuck altt56 
WOULD LIKE RIDE TO VATICAN EX­HIBIT SOON: TOM 333t ,3332 
NEED A RIDE TO ROCH./UPSTATE NY FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL TERRY X8725. 
NEED RIDE HOME TO BUFFALO ON WED OR THUR BEFORE BREAK. WILL SHARE AS USUAL. MIKE 67t9 
FOR SALE 
For Sale:NEW Wilson Staff irons..$350 Call Larry .. t638 
AVAILABLE. 2 USC tix. Call (215) 238­9052 after 5 pm. 
COUPON BOOKLETS. ONLY t9.95. VALUED OVER $t,OOO.OO.RESTAURANTS. PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT.ETC PROCEEDS TO CHILDREN WITH CAN· CER/LEUKEMIA. CALL NANCY 78-42638. 
ROYAL TYPEWRITER. PICA, MANUAL. $40, CALL ERIC. 6t92 
'72 VW BUG.rbll eng. B/0. Leslie x271 0 
L--1~TI_C_KE_T_S~ 
Desperately need Penn State game tick­els. Call Bnan at 8795. 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 264508-4 
USC-NO !IX wanted. Paying most (312) 246·4650. 
Need Non-studentt1ckets to NO vs USC. Call collect. (3t2) 565-5959 x20t3 or x2233. 

NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR GOOD OL' DAD"! Please call DAVE at 6919 
Need 6 GA Pitt. tix. Must be 1n grps. of 3or more. 263-6665 Steve 
REALL Y,REALL Y NEED 4(0R 6) TICK­ETS TO PITT GAME!!CALL BILL NO t763 
I NEED 4-6 USC GAs AND t USC STU­DENT TICKET; CALL PAT NO 1238 
Help! Need USC tix. student or GA, Call Steve at 6638 
NEED USC STUDENT OR GA TIX-CALL CHRIS AT 234· 7279 ANYTIME 
Need NAVY stud.&GA"s xt695 
NEED 4 NAVY TIX.CALLCHAISAT 1201 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's Call Pete 3t14 
I NEED tOG.A.'S TO THEU.S.C. GAME WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT FOR THESE TICKETS AND THEY NEED NOT BE TO­GETHER. PLEASE CALL t779 And ASK FOR DAN. 
NEED TWO NAVY GA"S CALL BRIAN 6656 
HELP! Parents will disown us if we don't get them PITT TIX. Call Pat att 068 or Jeanne at28-4-4167. 
Need two G.A.'s for the Pitt. game. Call Kelly 284-4074. 
I need 3 Navy GA"s. Call Thet'esa 284· 5442 
HELP!Need 2 USC or 3 PITT GA"S.Piease call JIM at8736. 
WANTED: 4-6 GA nx to each of the following home games: USC. Pitt and Penn State. Call Tom Hollerbach collect at: 3t2/565-5959 Ext 2081. 
need two Pitt GAs call Bill 6395 
NEED 3or 4 GAs for ANY HOME Game. COULD MEAN EMPLOYMENT. Call STEVE at 232-0550. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY. WILL PAY $$$CALL TOM t423 
HELP! Need 2 PITT GA's. Call Sue at 6050. 
need Pitt or Navy GAs call Ted al266 Ot37 
Need 2 or more PITT GA. TIX: Tom at 333t or3332 
Need 2 USC GA'S Call BRIAN 698t 
HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WANT TO SWAP FOR PENN ST CALL PAUL 1703. 
HELP 
A 119ry RICH friend needs PITT GA'a He Is wHNng to pay serious dollars for the tickets. Please help by csJNng David at 277-1326. 
You'll be gllld you did 
HELP! NEED USC TIX FOR RICH RELATIVES. CALL LON AT 6763 
USC TIX NEEDED !! Student or GA · $$ CALL KEVIN x 6214 NOW I 
NEED 2 NAVY G.A.'S. CALL MATT at1462 
$$$$ NEED 2 OR 4 TIXS FOR USC GAME. CALL TOOTlE AT 239-7136. 
NEED 6 G. A.'S FOR PITT GAME. MUST 
BE IN PAIRS. CALL KEVIN AT 6636 
... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' 
$1 NEED 4 NAVY GA'$ ·GREG 6663 
GOOD$$ FOR t USC GA · GREG 6863 
NEED TWO NAVY GA"S CALL BRIAN 6656 
$$$$$$$$$$$$TWO GA'S NEEDED FOR USC GAME$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$Call Sean x6606$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ eendad 
I need t or 2 USC STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 234-7060 
NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS: CALL JOHN AT t661 
NEED 2 USC STUD OR GA"s. Call Dan 1022. 
NEED NAVY TIX CALL ERIN 2773 
I NEED TROJAN (USC) TICKETS STU· DENT/GA SEMI-MEGA $$ CALL SAM, t721 
NEED 2 USC STUDENT OR G.A.'S WILL TRADE TWO PITT G A'S CALL ROBERT AT266-5814 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA NAVY TIX-­CALLERICAT1465 
I HAVE TWO STUDENT TICKETS FOR EACH HOME GAME FOR SALE CALL 6719 
PERSONALS 
DOMER SIX MILE RUN· OCT. 6, 10 a.m. -sign up at NVA · T-shirts and trophies. 
Great Science Fiction 200t Thurs& Fri Sponsored by the K of C 

TERRI HARTUNG· Happy 21 Sl birthday, baby! We'll miss celebrating this one to­gether, but what are you doing New Year"s Eve? Your Oklahoma boyfriend with the L.B.L. Chico 
HAPPY HOUR AT PANDORA'S BOOKS EVERY FRIDAY FROM 3:00­
6:00. ALL USED BOOKS 50/ OFF AND ALL NEW BOOKS 20/ OFF. STOP IN ON FRIDAYS AND YOU'LL SAVE. 937 SO. BEND AVE. 
NEED 2 USC TIX CALL MARY AT SMC 4433 
Chnstie Brinkley and E.T. come to see Will McClean at N.D. 
TARANTULA Needed call John 3404 
Oh, the humanrty 

TOO NUTTY TOO NUTTY TOO NUTTY TOO NUTTY --KEVIN GARDEN IS 20 THIS SUNDAY --TOO NUTTY TOO NUTTY TOO NUTTY TOO NUTTY -­CALL NO t388 AND WISH "MR HAPPY" A HAPPY B-DAY! --TOO NUTTY TOO NUTTY TOO NUTTY TOO NUTTY OKTOBERFEST IS HERE 
ATTENTIONIIIIWSNO REMOTES ARE NOW AVAILABLE FOR ALL OCCA­SIONSI FOR THE LOWEST PRICE AVAIALABLE YOU CAN HAVE A PROFESSIONAL OJ, ENGINEER AND ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLE II THE FOLLOWING DATES ARE NOW AVAILABLE: OCTOBER 8,14,15,21-­NOVEMBER 4, 12, 17,18 AND DECEM­BER 2,3,9, 16,17. TO RESERVE YOUR DATE CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT 283-1153 AFTER 11 P.M. OR AT 239­7425 TUESDAY FROM 3PM TO &PM, AND JIM GALLAGHER AT 239-7425. THAT'S WSND REMOTES-THE BEST EQUIPMENT ,THE BEST MUSIC, AT THEBESTPRICEIII 
................................................................ 
Party down this Friday night 60t St. Louis St. ~·s Jim's B-Oay, so give him a kiss. 
RIDE NEEDED TO COLUMBUS. OHIO. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL HOWIE AT x1765. 
I need PITT GA'I. Call David at 277­1326 
URBAN PLUNGE •.. URBAN PLUNGE Urban Plunge applications are due Oct. 
14. Get the applications from your dorm representatives, at the Center for Soclsl Concerns, or at Campus Ministry. For an experience that will iaat e 
lifetime ... 

HENRY SAYS: COOL ITTAMIE!II 
EDITORIAL CORRECTION: NOTRE DAME -WHERE MEN ARE MEN, WOMEN ARE MEN SHEEP ARE SCARED, AND DUCKS ARE AFRAID OF TAMIE 
MANDATORY SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA CLUB MEETING THIS SUNDAY 10-09-63 at 7:00pm in La Fortune Little Theater. 
Juat when I thought I hlld all the enewera, they chaniJIICI the queatlona. Juat when I thought 1hlld llckata they sold them. Juat when f thought my dear frlencle from L.A. couldn't come out, ..,.,. nice person will ..nme 4 
G.A.'a to the U$C IJIIme. PLEASE HELP BY SELLING ME YOUR TIXS • MIC· HELLE 2114-4138. 
Happy Birthday Prmce Robert! 
Desperately need USC tickets! Student or GA. Call284-5502 
Entertain your guests with Middle Eastet'n Flair or send a Belly Gram to someone you love. Ph. 29t-62t5 
HEY DIANNE 1ft ENJOY YOURSELFUI 
BREAK A LEG AND 
GOOD LUCK TONIGKTUI 
LOVE, VICKI 
SMC-NOTRE DAME SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LONDON AND ROME. COURSES IN TEN DIFFERENT AREAS INFORMATIONAL MEETING OCT. t7, IN ROOM 226 MOREAU SMC AT 7 PM. INFO. CALLAP BLACK 284-4460 
HAPPY "BIG 20" BIRTHDAY, BRIAN 
K,AUFM~T8. 
ALL WOMEN AND FEMALE DOMERS 
WHO'VE BEEN WANTING AN OLDER 
·MAN."" JOHN BURKE TURNS 22 ON FRIDAY AND IS AVAILABLE FOR PER­SONAL B-DAY SURPRISES IN ROOM 234 ALUMNI HALL DONT FORGET YOUR B·DAYSUIT. FROM S. ALLEY HEY BUETTNER! HAPPY BIRTHDAY SPAZ! TWO DECADES! DON"T YOU THINK IT"S ABOUT TIME TO DITCH THE TRASH CAN? CANICOMEFROM­MINNESOTATOO? BUM BUM DE DUM BUM II! 
ATIN ARKIES: THE ONLY THING THAT SPUD WOULD RATHER DO THAN PLAY BASKETBALL IS GO FFOR A JET RIDE. 
EMILE GOT INTO MED. SCHOOL PARTY! PARTY! TONIGHT tt4 CASTLE POINT EVERYONE WELCOME, SEE YAATTHE POINT! 
ELLEN MALLOY: She's a dream .and celebrating her birthday tomorrow. 
ELLEN MALLOY: Infamous Wanton Winsome Wench celebrates het' birthday tomorrow. 
SENIORS WATCH SATURDAYS GAME AT THE RATHSKELLARS IN THE 100 CENTER. 7.00$ AT THE DOOR FOR ALL THE PIZZA AND DRINK YOU CAN CONSUME. GET TICKETS AT THE DOOR. STARTS AT 7:00 BE THERE I 
Word of Warning: 
She couldn't cool it if she wanted to, 
Henry. Remember: "The only thing we 
hal/9 to fear is Tsmle Herself/" The Ducks 
MEOWWRRII 
Happy Birthday ELLEN MALLOY: 317 B.P.: t3t6: She will be accepting birthday k1sses (and just about anything) from jUSt about anyone all day tomorrow! 
B P Booze Cruise: Stay loose. be cool. goforrt! 
Need 2 or 4tickets to Pitt game, G.A. that is. Please call13tt and sell me your lick· ets. 
K. Good luck sucking face (with your date or whatever). 
ELLEN MALLOY. can we ;ust tell you something? We think you're swell and hope you have a happy day! 
M After he teaches you to dance. maybe you can teach him a few things 
WASH DC. MD, VA BUS SIGN-UPS WED. OCT t2 7-6 PM LAFORTUNE LOBBY PRICE· $65. BRING MONEY TO SIGN-UPS. LV t 0/22 AT 7 PM 
BUZZ CLUB IS BACK! BUZZ CLUB IS BACK! BUZZ CLUB IS BACK! 
SUNDAY NIGHT! SUNDAY NIGHT! 711 REX! 71t RE)(I 
TO the ·JUDGES""· talk IS cheap, thaf"s wry we DON"T T ALKII 3rd Holy Cross 
Sus19,Bernice,Jiii,Julle, Trish I You·re the best friends a cripple could ever have, Thanks for all ya"all have done! Love,Colleen 
Spud-THEY might not reveal your true 1dent1ty, but WE never promised any­thing! Two SMC girls who know. 
Peggy.Happy B-B-Day To a g1rl who likes th1ngs TANGY. Gonna find guy who busted your hand. Take it easy on the diet coke. Love. Mike, Bob. and John 
.. say what you want ·cause this IS a NEW ART SCHOOL! 

The Observer ;:p. Friday, October 7, 1983·-page 15 
Batsketball ticket distribution 
Monday All seniors 
Tuesday Juniors and all undergraduate students in the ninth semester or higher 
\1\fednesday Sophomores, graduate students, and law students 
Thursday Freshmen and any student who missed his/her appropriate day 
All tickets are being distributed at Gate 3 of the ACC from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Y()UR S IS 
Athlele's 
"QJP~~:. 

Match play championships 
Palmer almost upsets Ballesteros 
Associated Press first-round matches were Americans 17th, while Palmer wandered off Calvin Peete, Bill Rogers and Hale Ir­course with his second shot and win, Bernhard Langer of Germany, finished with a regulation 5.
VIRGINIA WATER, England ­Greg Norman of Australia, Bob While. some matches see-sawed,Severiano Ballesteros played one of 
Charles of New Zealand and Nick Rogers, Irwin and Peete all reapedhis greatest shots ever yesterday to Faldo ofBritain. the benefit ofa good start.
cheat Arnold Palmer ofan upset vic­The knock-out, head-to-head Rogers took the first three holestory in the first round of the 
tournament continues with 36-hole against Isao Aoki ofJapan and went$225,000 Suntory World Match Play matches from the second round on to an early 5 and 4 win. 
GolfChampionship. 
today. The final is set for Sunday, Irwin began by rolling in a 70-foot One hole down as he approached 
with $52,51[)0 going to the winner. birdie putt and overcame Davidthe 18th green, the Spanish star A crowd of 13,350 -the biggest Graham ofAustralia 2 and 1.
chipped into the hole from the attendance for any one day in the Peete also was n t ever headed. He rough to tie the match and went on 
tournament's history -followed was 4-up on Tsuneyuki Nakajim af­to win at the 21st hole in a sudden­the golfin the autumn sunshine. ter eight holes, but later lost grounddeath playoff. 
The fans' favorite was Palmer and and finally won by one hole. 
Palmer, 54, who won the in­for most of the morning he looked augural World Match Play 19 years capable of giving them the upset ago, appeared heading for a sensa­they wanted. When he went 2-up by tional win on Wentworth's 6,945-rolling in a 16-foot birdie putt at the 
NFL makes 

yard, par 35-37-72 course. He was 12th, the scene was like the 1960's two holes up with two to play when again with Arnie's Army roaring with 
Jets' move 

Ballesteros struck back. excitement. Ballesteros, bidding to win the Later Palmer talked about Balles­title for the third straight year, said, teros' chip at the 18th which turned 
official 

"I have played shots like that before, the match. but never at such a critical mo­"It was just one hell ofa shot," Pal­
Associated Press

ment." mer said. "I thought I was going to He said his spectacular chip shot win. But that's golf. was from 50 yards. "Ifl had played the 17th properly NEW YORK -The National Foot­
Ballesteros, who was suffering there would not have been an 18th ball League's NewYorkJets formally from a fever, went straight to bed af­hole at all. That was the bad hole for announced yesterday that they will ter winning. me." move to Giants Stadium in East Rut­
Other winners of the 18-hole, Ballesteros got a birdie at the herford, N.J., next season but pledged to return to New York "if the city will build a proper football 
you a coupon Foot! This offer is 
THE ATHLETE'S FOOT: 
*Carries the very latest styles. 
*Has the best selfx:tion of athletic shoes in Indiana. 
*Has the best service ... people who really know athletic shoes and acttvewear. 

OFF 
00 
When you present your student I.D. 
Offer is good at the Athlete's Foot Store in the University Park Mall (South Bend) or any participating Athlete's Foot Store. 
Nooneknowstheathlete'sjootlikeTheAtlnlete'sFoot 
The~~t,t,lele•s 
University Park Mall 
~~· 
stadium." 
In a letter to New York City Mayor Edward I. Koch, Jets principal owner Leon Hess said the Jets "have been and still are playing our home games in a run-down, neglected stadium, which is well-known to be the NFL's poorest facility for athletes and spec­tators alike." 
Hess said that at a Sept. 26 meeting Koch promised to offer on Sept. 30 a plan for a new stadium but that on Sept. 28 he "held a news con­ference announcing a Jets move to NewJersey, although you knew very well that no such decision had been made." 
In officially announcing the move to the Meadowlands, Hess also pledged to return to New York ifthe city will do the following: 
-Build a first-class professional football stadium for the city of New York. 
-Have all necessary permits, detailed plans, authorizations, ap­provals and financing securly ! in place before Feb. 1, 1986. 
-Guarantee the Jets occupancy starting in the 1989 season under a lease equitable to the city and the Jets. 
Hess, an oil magnate who owns 75 percent oftheJets-the rest is held by Mrs. Helen Dillon, the daughter of former club president Donald C. Lillis -said in the letter that Koch was guilty of "forcing the issue" at his news conference and that, as a result, "theJets' fans have expressed themselves." 
In the week following the news conference, Hess said, "the Jets received 9,000 telephone calls from fans. Less than 60 people voiced op­position to the Meadowlands move, with virtually every caller request­ing ticket information if the Jets move to the Meadowlands. The Jets also received more than 4,000 writ­ten requests to buy seats for next season if the Jets move to the Meadowlands. 
"You cannot fool the public, Mr. 
Mayor," the letter said. "Jets fans 
want a clean, efficient, well-run 
stadium, built for football, not the 
'unsuitable' Shea If you are in­
terested in the Jets' pledge and the 
return of the New York Jets to New 
York City, please let me hear from 
you." 
Harrison Goldin, the city's comp­troller, has estimated the Jets' move would cost the city about $33 mil­lion a year in lost revenue. 
Giants Stadium, a 76,891-seat 
facility built strictly for football, was 
completed in time for the New York 
Giants to begin play there in 1976. 

The.Observer Friday, October 7, 1983 -page 16 
National League playoffs 
Rookie Hudson set to face L.A.
NHL Standings 
In thts year's NHL playoff format, the top lour teams tn each division make the playoffs, regardless of over­allleague standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE A<IM!a Dlvlak>n Smythe Dvlalon 

w L T aF aA Pia. w L T aF aA Pill Boston 0 0 9 3 2 Calgary 1 0 0 5 3 2 Buffalo 0 0 5 3 2 Edmonton 1 0 0 5 4 2 Quebec 1 I 0 10 12 2 Winmpeg 0 0 6 6 1 
Montreal 0 0 4 7 0 Los Angeles 0 0 3 3 1 Hartford 0 1 0 3 5 0 Vancouver 0 1 0 3 5 0 P81rtck Dlvlalon Norrie Division 
N.Y Rangers 1 0 0 6 2 2 Chicago 1 0 0 4 3 2 Philadelphia 1 0 0 4 1 2 St. Louis 1 1 0 8 7 2 
N.Y. Islanders 1 0 10 11 2 DetroH 0 0 1 6 6 1 Pt"sburgh 0 0 3 5 0 Minnesota 0 0 1 3 3 1 New Jersey 0 0 2 6 0 Toronto 0 0 4 5 0 Washington 0 0 1 4 0 
Yeoterday'a ReauHa N.V Islanders 7, Montreat 4 Boston 9, Quebec 3 Ph1ladetph1a 4, Washington 1 
Todey'a a • .,.. 
N. V Rangers at New Jersey Edmonton at Wtnntpeg M.nnesota at Vancouver 
Tomo"ow'a a-a 
Boston at Hartlord Buffalo at Quebec 
N.Y Islanders at Washington 
New Jersey at Detroit 
Philadelphia at Montreat N Y. Rangers at Pi"sburgh Chicago at St. Louis Toronto at Los Angeles 

Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -A year ago, 
Charles Hudson was sitting at home 
in Dallas, watching baseball's pen­
nant playofiS on television. 
Today, he'll be on the mound at 
Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium, 
starting for the Phillies against Los 
Angeles and Bob Welch in Game 
Three of the National League Cham­
pionship Series. 
And, no matter how much he 
tries, the 24-year-old rookie who 
had never pitched above Class A 
before this season, knows he can't 
approach this as just another game. 
"You try to imagine that it is," he 
said. "But everyone in the nation 
will be watching. I'm proud to say 
we're here, and I'm in the place to do 
the job." 
After the teams split the first two games in Los Angeles, Game Three is a pivotal one that will leave the win­ner just one victory away from the World Series. But Phillies' manager Paul Owens says he has no qualms about starting Hudson, the rookie from Prairie View A&M University. 
"I've got a lot of confidence in him," Owens said. "He's partly responsible for us being here. He pitched well all year for us." 
Recalled from Portland on May 31, Hudson was 8-8 for Philadelphia. His record included a five-game win­ning streak and a three-hitter against Houston onjuly 20, a game in which he took a no-hitter into the ninth in­ning. 
There also were two losses to Los Angeles, which beat Philadelphia in 11 of their 12 regular-season meetings. But the Dodgers still were impressed with the young man. 
"He throws well," said Welch, still use them, but I also have the who was 1 5-12 during the season for change-up to keep the hitters off the Dodgers, including a l-0 shutout balance." of the Phillies. "He has good mec­
He's also benefitted from watch­hanics. He's patient. He's aggressive. 

ing the dean of the Phillies' staff, 38­He goes after people." 

year-old Steve Carlton, whoHudson also says he's a different combined with reiever AI Holland topitcher than he was in his first two shut out the Dodgers 1-0 in thepro seasons, both spent in the low 

opener ofthis series.

minors. 
"Last year, I was just a power "Lefty showed me something all pitcher," he said. "I used the fast ball season," he said. "Keep the ball low and my out pitch was the slider. I and mix up the pitches." 
Rookie Boddicker saves Orioles again 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -Rookie Mike Bod­
dicker stepped in to save the Bal­
timore Orioles in the playofiS, just as 
he did during the regular season. 
"He was there when we needed someone to get us to the playofiS," said pitching Coach Ray Miller, "and when we neeeed someone to give us a big game in the playofiS." 
Boddicker, recalled from the minor leagues on May 5 after starters Jim Palmer and Mike Flanagan were disabled, won 16 games while help­ing to stablize a injury-riddled staff. 
Placed in a more pressurized situation after the Orioles lost the opening game of the best-of-five American League Championship Series, Boddicker blanked the Chicago White 4-0 on five hits last night and tied a playoff record with 
14 strikeouts. 
"Strikeouts I don't care about," Miller said. "That's why you wind up with 140 pitches. I'd rather see them hit the first pitch on the ground." 
"I think it was the first game he pitched this year in which he didn't develop a blister," said Miller. "I was afraid to look at his finger." 
Boddicker pitched well in spring training the past two years, but each time failed to make the 25-man ros­ter. 
Asked why he had made Boddick­er his last cut this year, ManagerJoe Altobelli cracked: "Because I'm dumb." 
He explained, however, that a sprained ankle placed him a week to 10 days behind schedule. But he took his regular turns in the minors and was ready when he was recalled. 
"He was a victim of numbers," Miller said. "It was hard to break into a staff that included Cy Young pitchers and 20-game winners." 
"I said early in the year that he reminded me ofa right-hanued Scot­ty McGregor," Miller said, "and now I believe it." 
Boddicker led the league with five shutouts during the regular season, the first coming against the White Sox in his first start on May I 7 -on the same day that Flanagan was disabled. 
The rookie has baffled and bot­hered some of the league's better hitters with his assortment of slow pitches, once causing Rod Carew to complain: "I feed my dog beuer garbage than he throws." 
PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS MANAGERS! Th~ U.S. Navy Supply Corpo. bas oprninp In tralnln!! programs olferln11 early man"'lerial and kchnical "'•ponsibllltl~•· Quall8ed appllcanm will ...,cem I 0 months pald tnllnlnt1 prollflUD leadln11 10 Immediate maJlatlerial positions In one of the foUowlng areu' SYSTEMS INVEN­TORY MANAGEMENT; ACQUISmON CON­TRACTING; COMPIJTI!R SYSTEMS; FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT. Starting salary $17,000 with nopld advancement-Quall8catlom, BA%8S de­
are~ or niUSI be within 12 montb.fl of gradua­tion &om coUcgc, B average p~&:~d. U.S. citizenship a must. Aile Umit l8. Call IOU free 
l-800-38l-9782 (local' l56-1455) Navy repre­sentative will b~ on Campuo Oct. 19 a lO (W a Th) -Placement OfBc~. 


The 0 bserver 
... Flags 

continuedfrom page 20 
scored two safeties in the first half a feat which Zerr described as "unusual for a flag football team." P.E.'s major scoring drives came during the second half and Zerr was pleased because the oiiensive line "moved the ball well." 
According to Zerr, P.E. "scored 
throughout the game," against P.W. 
and she named Carla Cortes and 
Susie Downs as outstanding players 
for the week. To prepare: for its game 
against Walsh next week, the team 
will "have to work out the kinks and 
work on the little thing:!." 
Although Badin Ios1 its season opener to P.E., Espospo is optimistic about the rest ofthe seru;on. She eays most of the team consists of fresh­men this year and, "there is a lot of inexperience on the terun." 
She attributes Sunday's loss to, "slow execution and a bad choice of plays in the beginning" Although there has been some trouble with the offensive line, Espospo says there will be no major changes in the line up. 
Earlier this week, B.P. lost to 
Walsh 12-6. "We played a bad game, 
and I think we lost to an inferior 
team," explained Ehrhrudt. 
She blamed the losn to "dumb 
mistakes" and "tremendous clipping 
penalties" which pusht:d the team 
back 45 yards on one drive. "We 
hate to lose a game like that, but it 
may have been constructive be­cause we found a lot oferrors." 
On Tuesday, B.P. came back to defeat Lyons 14-0. Ehrhardt said the team played much better on Tues­day, especially the defensive line. 
Walsh's 12-6 upset victory over 
B.P. on Sunday, has "turned the team around," said Steber. "Not many people thought we would beat B.P." 
Steber sees an optimistic conclu­sion for Walsh's 1983 season and says, "things are starting to go to­gether." 
Lyons' loss to B.P. on Tuesday was not discouraging to team captain Martha Bums since "B.P. is always a powerhouse." Tuesday's loss gives Lyons an 0-3 record and Bums is dis­appointed that her team was unable to score against B.P. 
This Sunday, Lyons will face P.W. and Bums says the team will be practicing flag drills and blocking in preparation for the game. "We will determine our strengths and weaknesses before Sunday." 
Farley's 14-0 victory over Lewis on Sunday built confidence in the Farley team. 
"We started to work more as a 
team," said Farley team captain 
Sharon Koehler. "We blew holes in 
their defense." 
Lewis team captain Janeen Olds was disappointed with Sunday's per­formance "but we lerurned where we must improve." The loss to Farley gives Lewis a 2-1 record and, accord­ing to Olds, "brought us down to earth and showed us we can't depend on the fancy plays." 

Friday, October 7, 1983 -page 17 
Wlhat's up? Here's what ~rour teams are doing this weekend 
Today 
cross country Notre Dame Invitational 2p.m. Burke Memorial Golf Course 
soccer vs. Findlay 8p.m. Cartier Field 
Tomorrow 
soccer at Wisconsin-Milwaukee Tournament 
ND women's tennis Irish Invitational Courtney Tennis Courts 
field hockey at St. Louis Univ. 


SMC volleyball vs. Michigan-Dearborn 6p.m. Angela Athletic Facility 
SMCtennis at Irish Invitational 
football at South Carolina 6p.m. 
baseball vs. Glen Oak 1 p.m. Jake Kline Field 


/the .~; 1 ~~~~~~i/C~ 
! 
t t 
t t 
t 
t t 
t 

Spend a "Neat" Evening I I 
tFriday, Oct. 7 t 
t LaFortune Ballroom 
with 

DOUG NEIDT 
(pronounced NEET) 

19:30-1:30 t 
CLASSICAL GUITARIST 1Adm. $1 I t ....... I 
--· ----------McCarthy's 


EST.1983 
Mon: Monday Night Football ­Pitchers $2 durin.g game Toes: Two for One Draft Two drafts .75 Wed: Talent and Ladies Nite ­
Happy Hourprices to ladies 
ThUlrs: Cheers Nite ­
. 25 draft8-10PM Fri: Pre-Game Nite ­
Hear!
*Dave Brubeck 

wake up the echoes with us!
*"Blue Rondo a Ia Turk" Stanley Myer's 
Sat: Sat. Morning Confusion ­
"Cavatina" "Deerhunter'' 
Irish Omelets 12.50; draft 7AM .10 
Plus Doug's Own arrangements of 

up a dime every hour till noon
*ELLINGTON 
*Bach * Tarreg11 
*GERSHWIN 
N.D. 
DOme NO Ave. 
HillS!. 
*MoCarthy"s 

Sat. Afternoon Pre-Game Warm-Up ­
a first for the classical guitar 
Wed Oct. 26 at 8:00 PM 

$2.00 pitchers 2-8
Admission $7.00 Tickets on sale now 


Uncle Vinnie Says: 
"Dillon dares to be different, 410 N Hill Mon-Tburs 11:00-1:0o' GoBigRed" Fri 11:00-2:00 
CENTURY CENTER 



Full line ofPub Grub served daily Sat 7:00AM-2:00AM 
,---­
The Observer Friday, October 7, 1983 ..:. -page-18 
American League playoffs 
Orioles shut out Sox, even series 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-Rookie: Mike Bod­dicker, striking out a record-tying 14, pitched a five-hitter and Gary Roenicke slugged a two-run homer as the Baltimore Orioles beat the Chicago White Sox 4-0 last night and squared their American League Championship Serks at one victory apiece. 
The Orioles, with the victory, avoided a gloomy situation. No team in the best-of-five series has ever survived losing the first two games at home. The final three games -if all arc necessary -arc scheduled for Comiskey Park at Chicago tonight, tomorrow, and Sunday night. Mike Flanagan will start for the Orioles in Game Three against Rich Dotson. 
Roenicke, a platoon player who did not start in Baltimore's 2-1 loss in Wednesday's opener, homered in the sixth inning, doubled, walked twice, scored three times and had two RBI's. Ken Singleton doubled home one run and the other scored on an error by Chicago third baseman Vance Law. 
Boddickcr's 14 strikeouts, a career high. tied the AL champion­ship Series record and were the most by any American League pitcher this year. He recorded No. 
14 by gettingjulio Cruz swinging in the ninth. The right-hander, who started the season in the minor leagues, and White Sox left-hander Floyd Bannister began the night in a struggle ofpower. 
Boddicker, throwing an assort­ment of breaking pitches and curly­cue fastballs, struck out two in the first inning, and Bannister fanned three. 
In the top of the second, Boddick­er struck out Greg Luzinski to start. He then hit Tom Paciorek with his next pitch and walked Ron Kittle on a 3-1 pitch to give the White Sox two ba~erunners. But, as they had in their Game One victory when they stranded I 0 baserunners, Chicago let another opportunity slip by. 
On a 3-2 pitch, Boddicker struck out Vance Law, and Paciorek, on the front end of an attempted double 
steal,  was  thrown out at  third  by  
catcher  Rick  Dempsey  for  a  
doubleplay.  

In the bottom half of the inning, Roenicke led off with a double. It was his sixth hit off Bannister in ; 8 career at-bats and all have been for extra bases, including four home runs. 
The next batter, designated hitter 

enjoy your job and your spare time too! 

SAlARY ~tarts from $17,000and Increases annually to $29,000 In four years. 
QUALIFICATIONS BSN degree or 3-year 
diploma with one year ofexperience. You must be at least 20 years 
old but under 35 years old. 

BENEf'ITS 30 days paid vacation Rapid advancement Worldwide Travel 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 1-800-382-9782 toU free 

(local: 256-14SS) Navy representative will be on campus Oct. 19 & 20 (W & Th)­Placement Office 
-.....:.r:g.:.
-•\-j,
-=---.;......... 
Ken Singleton, then hit a hard grounder toward third and Law, a converted shortstop, let it bound off his glove. When he recovered, his throw went over Paciorek's head in­to the White Sox's dugout, allowing Roenicke to score. 
Boddicker, who joined the Orioles on May 3 to replace the injured Jim Palmer, did not yield a hit until two were out in the third inning when Rudy Law singled. He struck out two more in the fourth, and Kittle led off the next inning with the second hit off Boddicker, a single. 
But Boddicker struck out two more White Sox in that inning, and a pattern was developing in this series between two normally potent of­fensive teams. Chicago's LaMarr Hoyt had pitched a five-hitter in Game One to outduel Baltimore's Scott McGregor. On this cool, clear night, however, the tables were turned as Boddicker outmatched Bannister. 
The Orioles scored their second run in the fourth. Roenicke walked, with the ftrst free pass from Bannis­ter, and Singleton ripped a ground ball down the third base line. When the ball hit the wall that juts out toward the line and caromed into short left field, Kittle was out ofposi­tion. By the time he tracked down the ball, Roenicke had scored from first and Singleton had waltzed into second. 

Then, in the sixth, the Orioles laid waste to any plans the White Sox might have had for a sweep. Cal Rip­ken Jr. led off with a high drive off the wall in left field. As ifto add final insult to his night, Kittle had beer spilled on him from the stands. It had, indeed, become an inglorious night. 
After Eddie Murray popped out, Roenicke came to bat. Under Bal­timore's platoon system, the right­handed hitting Roenicke had sat out Game One while lefty swingingJohn Lowenstein played against Hoyt. But with the left-handed Bannister pitching, Manager Joe Altobelli called on Roenicke, who had hit 19 homers in the regular season. 
The count went to 2·2, and Roenicke sent Bannister's next pitch deep into the left-field seats, giving 
the Orioles a 4-0 lead. 
Orioles fans had something to cheer about and the partisan crowd of 52,347 gave Roenicke a standing ovation, drawing the Orioles left­fielder from the dugout for a tip of the cap. 
After all, he and that rookie pitcher named Boddicker had given the club new life. 
Knickers and birdies gain Stewart golf lead 
Associated Press Asian circuit, had birdies of 15, 25 and I 0 feet and another of three 
COLUMBUS, Ga Payne 
Stewart, nattily attired in pink knick­
ers, snipped five strokes off par yes­
terday with a 65 for a one-stroke 
lead after the first round of the 
S250,000 Southern Open Golf 
Tournament. 
Stewart, 26, blistered the narrow, hilly, par 70, 6,791-yard Green Is­land Country Club course for seven birdies and two bogeys to take the lead over Gary Hallberg and Sam Torrance, a Ryder Cup player from Scotland. 
Gary Koch and Grier Jones were two shots off the pace at 67 while defending champion Bobby Clam­pen led a group at 68. 
Hal Sutton, the leading money winner on the tour, had some problems with an eye infection and staggered to a 76. 
Stewart, in his third year on the PGA tour after two seasons on the inches in blasting out a 3 I on the front nine. 

The flamboyant Stewart, resplen· dent in his pink knickers and socks and pink shirt with gray stripes and matching white sweater, cap and shoes, added a IO-foot birdie on the I Oth hole but had bogeys on th I 1 th and I 4th to go along with birdies of 4 and 3 feet on the 12th and 15th holes to complete his fine round. 
"I feel ~ comfortable on this course," said Stew:trt, who also said he owns 4 knicker outfits. 
"I believe I was the first on the U.S. tour to wear knickers. Now there are other guys wearing them. Why not? If you ever wore them playing go!( you'd see they're a lot more com­fortable than slacks," said Stewart. 
He ranks 55th on the money list this year with just under $95,000 and has four finishes in the top 10, his best a tie for third at Milwaukee. 
Columbus Day Special 
REFRIGERATORS 
$35 per School Year FREE DELIVERY 
cALL Taylor Rental 
277.2190 
1427 N.lronwood 

NV A Pairings 
All matches must be played and reported to the NVA office by Tueday. October t t MEN'S OPEN TENNIS NO. 1 Coleman (4645) v. Mrschke (4521) 
K. O'Brien (1692) v. B McGowan (1069) Dahl (8944) v. J. Bosco 
MEN'S OPEN TENNIS NO. 2 Huebl (3248) v. Keller (6105) Harman (1082) v. Soergal (1575) Knrpe (8917) v. Goulet (277-7563) Fay (1069) v. Leyes (1082) 
P. Serrano-bye 
WOMEN'S TENNIS SINGLES-SECOND ROUND 
Almeida (6722) v. V. Demello (1326) 
Gordon (6928) v. L Demello (1348) lmmonen (3091) v. Kohlhaas (6834) Coin (6803) v. Rozic (6727) McGinnis-bye 
MIXED DOUBLES-THIRD ROUND All matches must be played and reported by October 11. 
Martrn-Morrow (6840) v. Moore·O'Bryan (7870) Callis-O'Grady ( 1288) v. Clifford-Locke (8171) Cocke-Schnell (3316) v. Grojean-Mohnsky (1248) Paraiso-Dougherty (1271) v Waii-Hagemen (1195) Sobzak-Delapena (1639) v. Szatkowskr-Demello (8852) Cleveland-Garhus (4514) v. O'Bnen-Aimerda ( 1692) Bond-Demello ( 1 027) v. Runger-Schmid (1432) 
MEN'S NOVICE SINGLES-SECOND ROUND 
Lukastak (8272) v. Kennaugh (4627) 
Taneff (1129) v Polasek (8102) 
Healy (4625) v. Gardrner (8646) 
Horvath (1392) v. Clifford (8171) 
Kelly ( 1520) v. Real (3378) 
Bauman (3546) v. Lusser (8989) 
Pico-bye 
GRAD/FAC SINGLES 

K. Walberg (277-7152) v. Hoffman (239-7666) Lyons (239-6284) v. D. Walberg (272-7152) Schubert (2754) v. Steve 0. (232-9140)
a..----------------------------' 

WE~ekend 

Friday, October 7, 1983-page 19 
Berke Breathed 

Fate 

£ WDND£1. WHAr He'S WOW/ r CliNT 8£i.IE"VE 
II/((C/( SOMC # ((6 ~.(1 
GONNA SIN T"D THEM FIIUSr SIIID rHIIT. 
WHEN WE Pt.H/ SourH CA~fJLfNII ?
\ 
\ 


Mellish 

MADMAN, I .JENNY, THERE COMES ATIHl FCfl. HIOUGHr EVEN THE MOST CYNICAl OF ~~ YOij HATED ANfi-NAI!AAUIIl TO COME FORm j fHE Dlla~. --------AND lOMMUNE Wlrfl NATURE, Aj / BEING ON£ WITH THE EAATH~f 
' -=-~ •• """ ~ ­

The Da.ily Crossword 



GEE HAil/'IAN, THAT~ SO I!EA~TlFUl. 1-JHAT~ TU!T YOUlE ffEbiN<; ])1<11 
ACROSS 30 Conditions 1 Fastener 35 MacGraw of 5 Become 
movies roughened 36 Piincipalby wear melody10 Clean 
39 -for 

14 A Guthrie (encourage)
15 Obsession 40 Reprisal16 Against authoriza­17 Actual 
tion 18 Care for 
43 First name livestock in mystery 
19 Libertine 44 Wicked 
20 TV host 45 Employ23 Chess 46 Great 

grandmaster bargain
24 "Arose­
48 Riverin 
rose..." Belgium25 Metal 

49 Moslem plate prince
28 LAcol. 
51 Period 

Thursday's Solution 

Campus 
Friday, Oct. 7 

•12:15 
p.m. -Italian Club Meeting, for Italian· speaking faculty, Faculty Dining Room 

•2:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Joyce Dublin: The Street and the Snow," Dr. Albert Montesi, 209 O'Shaughnessy 

•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicoure, IBM PC Fun· damentals, 115 Computing Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Philosophy Colloquium, "Some Conceptual Aberrations of Cognitive Science," ProfKenneth Sayre, Library Lounge 

•4 
p.m -Cross Country, Notre Dame Invitation-­al, Notre Dame GolfCourse 

•6 
p.m. -Volleyball, SMC vs. Univ of Michigan­Dearborn, Angela Athletic Facility 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Dr_ Strangelove: Or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Soccer, NO Men vs Findlay College, Car­tier Field 

•8 
p.m. -ND/ SMC Theatre, "The Skin of our Teeth," O'Laughlin Auditorium, 53 general admis­sion, $2.50 faculty and students 


Saturday, Oct. 8 

•8 
a.m. -Tennis, Irish Invitational, Courtney Courts 

•9:30 
a.m. -Field Hockey, NO Women vs. St. Louis, Alumni Field 


•1 
p.m. -Baseball, NO Men vs Glen Oaks Comm College, Jake Kline Field 

•2 
p.m. -Basketball, Logan Center Benefit, Detroit Pistons vs. Indiana Pacers 

•6 
p.m. -Football, NO vs South Carolina, at South Carolina 

•7 
p.m. -ArtOpening and Reception, Work by Father Andre Bouler, Isis Art Gallery 

•8 
p.m. -ND SMC Theatre, "The Skin of Our Teeth," O'Laughlin Auditorium, $3 general admis· sion, $2.50 for faculty and students 

•8 
p.m. -Radio Show, "College Football Scoreboard," Host Will Hare, WSND-AM 64 

Sunday, Oct. 9 


•1 
p.m. -Baseball, NO Men vs. Lewis University, Jake Kline Field 

•2 
p.m. -MasswithEmmaus, Moreau Seminary 


•4 
p.m. ·-UniversityArtist Series, Cello Recital, Braginsky and Remenikova Duo, Annenberg Auditorium 


--~~ p.m. -ND./ SMC Theatre Auditions, For "The Investigations," For men only, 118 O'Shaughnessy 
Far Side 

r ..-. ~ ..-. ~ ._. ~ ..-. .... ~ ~ ..-. ~ .._.. ..-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -4IIIJ
~ 
t

t Will you ever tip a mbot a your favorite restaurant? f Will you ever live on the moon or planet hesburgh? Will your children d :>their homework and write papers on your family home computer? t Will you hear 'Radio Moscow' on your Walkman because of satellites? t Find Out!  t f 6'  
ff  Dr. Gerard K. O!INeill  t t  
, "Our next Century on Earth and in Space!l!l ' 8 PM Library Aud,itorium Tuesday Oct. 11f NOTE: one student will IN> selected to attend • pre-lecture dinner with Dr. On/ell. In 25 words or less state why you A would enJoy dining with o "guest lecturer. Return to: Academic Commission, 2nd floor LaFortune by Mon. Oct. 10  ff t  
'  with: neme, eddress, pho~• number  
f  t  

-----~---------------~ 



HOW 'Sour. .. C>DtJ'r E"V£1!/ 
1111/JK I[
\ I 
53 Color 54 1969 Bel· mont winner 62 "I cannot 
tell-" 63 Descendant 64 A'sh or oak 65 "1-man 
with..." 66 Edible 
nut 67 Queue 68 Calendar 
unit 69 Watery swelling 70 Ceases 
DOWN 1 Heartless 2 Location 3 Serb or 

Croat 4 Considerate 5 Tiny 6 Confine 7 One 8 Boxing 9 Clotho, 
Lachesis 

and Atropos 10 Tender 11 Celebes ox 12 Amaze 13 Go fast 21 Hop or hora 22 Stoolie 25 Weakens 26 Warn 
Photius 
Dave & Dave 
27 Name 28 :Still speak' ilngout 29 IExpression­
lless 31 !Blunder 32 !Hard court 
~~a me 33 Mickey or 
Minnie 34 13uide 37 ·-poetica 38 IOallas 
1school !letters 41 Pekoe or t:>olong 
42 ~~laskan 
47 Palmas or 
Cruces 50 Courage 52 Canadian 
~~en insula 53 Fleddish 
brown 54 To shelter 55 Gam or 
Moreno 56 Sign of s1orrow 57 Las Vegas 
i'lems 58 Filch soil 59 rv actress 
Moran 60 [)ivide into 
factions 61 Observes 62 /.1 Carter 

Logo Night 

Drink specials according to your clothes 
(wear a Bud shirt & ·get a Bud discount or any other Drink) 
D.J. Peter Burch 


page 20
-


lbt-Ob~rv~r/Tom Brown 
Laura Lee and her Notre Dame tennis teammates have been improving rapidly OIJf!r the last few years. Last year, they finished third in the nation in Di1Jision II and hope to improve on that this year.jane Healey discusses the program'sgrowth in hercolumn on thispage. · 

Board of presidents aims to control NCAA 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. The American Council on Education will press ahead with its attempt to take control of the NCAA, Robert Atwell, council executiye vice president, said yesterday after speaking to the Collegiate Commissioners Associ:t­tion. 
Atwell met with the 14 commis­sioners to try to sell them on the ACE proposal, then flew to Washing­ton where he and other ACE officials were to meet today with the NCAA council. 
The ACE has proposed that a board of 36 to 44 college presidents be set up with total power over col­lege athletics. The ACE plan would give the presidential t body the power to set aside any vote taken by NCAA schools at their annual con­vention. In addition, the presidents could to enact rules and set policy without consulting the schools. 
The ACE proposal will be on the agenda of the NCAA convention in January. A two-thirds majority ofthe nearly 800 member schools would be required for its passage. 
A select NCAA committee last month recommended that a presidential advisory commission be established within the existing framework of the organization. However, the commission would not have veto powers and Atwell 
said he did not believe that would be sufficient. 
"Making a prediction of what people will do is a hazardous thing," Atwell said after meeting with the 14 commissioners. "But...I would say that it is highly unlikely that group (ACE) is going to accept an advisory role. Now, you make wake up in the morning and find that I was dead wrong. But I don't think so. I know this group I have worked with. I don't think they will buy an advisory 
role. I think it (the ACE proposal) may be modified, but the essentials will be preserved.'' 
The commissioners met later to draft their official response position. But Robert Whitelaw, commissioner of the East Coast Athletic Con­ference and president of the CCA, said earlier that many of the con­ference executives "have some reservations" about the proposed veto power. 
"They (the ACE) don't anticipate the president would get into the nitty-gritty, but take an overview," Whitelaw said. "But in order to get a full grasp ofthe problems and issues, you have to get into some of the nitty-gritty stuff and find out where the problems are, and we wanted to know if the presidents could afford that kind of time over a con­c-entrated period. I think in principle it sounds good, really, but when it comes down to practicality?" 
Atwell said he told the commis­sioners that the ACE's group ofpresi­dents "aren't going to run the NCAA." 
"That is not what they want to do," he said. "They aren't going to have to get knowledgeable about where the wrestling championships are going to be held. They simply want to be in a position to make decisions on the big academic, finan­cial, institutional-type questions. There were 133 motions at the last NCAA convention. Maybe five or six of them were terribly important to college presidents, really important. The rest of them are properly left to the athletic administrators." 
Atwell said the presidents' ex­pertise in athletic matters has grown the past few years. 
"I sense that as the problems got worse, the level of presidential sop­histication has grown," he said. 

B.P. upsets Farley as women's flag football ends second week of play 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
Women's imerhall football com­pleted its second week last night with a fierce match between Breen­Phillips and defending champion Farley. When it was over, B.P. had defeated Farley, 8-6. 
In another game last evening, Walsh defeated Badin with an identi­cal score. 
B.P. team captain, Lisa Ehrhardt, described yesterday's game as "a crucial mid-season game," which should set the pace for the rest of B.P.'s season. "Ifwe play consi~tant­ly, we should be able to get the championship back," said Ehrhardt. "It's do or die for the championship, we've been working for nothing else." 
Ehrhardt said last evening's vic­tory over Farley is a credit to B.P.'s defensive line. "Everyone seems to be having trouble scoring on our defense, and I think ifwe can just get ahead in a game:, it should be enough for us to win." 
The rivalry between B.P. and Far­ley "is an age-old rivalry," explained Ehrhardt, and is usually a hard-hitting game since B.P. and Farley are sister dorms. 
Last night's contest improves B.P.'s record to 3-1 and lowers Far­ley's season record to the same mark. 
Walsh's game last night against Badin was not as close as the 8-6 score indicates. Two of Walsh's touchdowns were called back due to penalties. 
"The score doesn't really represent our play and the penalties really hurt us. That's something we're really going to have to work on," said Walsh coach Brian Steber. 
Although last night's loss brings Badin to an 0-2 record, both team captain Sally Espospo and coachJim Rikert were pleased with last night's performance. 
"We're not happy to lose, but our scoring in the second half really helped our morale," explained Espospo. "Now we won't have a losing attitude." 
In action earlier this week, Pasquerilla West suffered its second consecutive loss of the season when it dropped Tuesday's game to Walsh, 12-0. On Sunday, the squad lost its season ogener to Pasquerilla East, 20-6. 
Last Saturday, the P.W. team suf­fered a major setback when its ath­letic commissioner, Cathy Schafer, was injured during practice. She broke her ankle when she went out for a long pass and slipped. ("Her leg went one way and she went the other," described teammate Katy Shannon). 
Schafer returned from the hospi­tal this week after pins were placed in her ankle and will spend the next week in the infirmary until the swell­ing from the surgery subsides. 
"I think it was detrimental to the team," said Shannon. "People an: sympathetic, but they're afraid of what might happen to them and I don't blame them." 
This Sunday, P.W. will face Lyons and Shannon says, "we're trying to makeit." · 
With its victory over P.W., and an 18-0 victory over Badin, P.E. im­proved its record to 2-1 this week. "We went in, got the job done, and got out," said team captain, Kim Zcrr. 
In the game against Badin, P.E. 
see FLAG, page 17 

ND tennis comes of age 
Did you know that last year, after you were already at home relaxing for the summer, the Notre Dame women's tennis team was battling for third place in the NCAA Division II National Championhip? 
I didn't think so. 
Regardless ofyour knowledge, though, the event did take place. Third place out ofall the Division II teams in the country is a pretty decent feat. But it wouldn't surprise you if you had followed the team over the last couple years. 
Coach Sharon Petro, who has held her position for six years, points to the last three of those as an example of the slow, but sure progress the Irish have made toward a championship without actually garnering that unob­tainable goal. 
In the 1980-81 year, Notre Dame was part of the AlAW Division II tournament, in which it finished 20th. The two active scholarships that Petro had kept the team within the classification of Division II. 
The next season the Irish took fourteen steps towards their goal by finishing sixth in the country. The tourna­ment was structured so that every No. I singles player was in one bracket, the No. 2 singles in another bracket, and so on down to the sixth spot. The finalists in each slot were then named as all-Americans. Pam Fischette and Laura Lee both won that honor in the No. 3 singles and No. 5 singles positions, respectively. 
Last year, the challenge was really on. Notre Dame switched to the NCAA, not only increasing the level of competition, but also changing the structure of post­season play. Instead of a flighted tournament, eight teams (one from four regions of the country and four wild cards) would meet in California to play in a head­
to-head  competition  tournament.  Notre  Dame  was  
chosen from the Midwest region.  
On  the  first  day  of play,  the  Irish  devastated  

Westchester College 9-0. That afternoon though, the Irish crumbled before Cal State-Davis, putting them in the consolation match against the University of North­em Colorado, which they obviously won. 
After the team tourney was over, the individual singles and doubles matches w"ere to begin. Thirty-two of the top singles players were invited to participate. From Notre Dame, freshman Mary Colligan received an invitation. In doubles, 16 pairs were selected, ofwhich Colligan and Pam Fischette were a team. 
Before competition began, though, the news of a death in her family forced Colligan to fly home. Since replacements are not allowed according to NCAA rules, Notre Dame forfeited its selections in those tourneys. The all-Americans were chosen from a competition in which Notre Dame did not even participate. 
"I watched those individual and doubles tourna­ments," Petro said. "I'm not being biased, but our doubles team could have won it -or they would have been really close." 
To add even more plaesing news to this string of events, the Irish are now 8-0 in their fall season. 
Jane Healey ~~· 
_A_s_s_is_t_a_ntS_p_o_r_t_s_E_d_it_o_'----~~ ..,._ 
The question that arises is what has been the motivat­ing factor in this slow climb upwards? 
"The major influence is support of the adminstration for not only tennis, but all of women's athletics," Petro said. "They (Gene Corrigan and Mr. O'Brien) arc very supportive. I know that if I really need something for the betterment of the program, they will listen to me and be supportive." 
Having the backing of the athletic administration has helped Petro to attract a specific type of person and form a close knit group ofplayers. 
"I'm looking for the women that has put in a lot of 

time and money into tennis (on the junior circuit) 
before college," she said. "But I also want a serious stu­
dent. Most of the players don't have aspirations about 
going pro after graduation." 
With the type of dedication Petro gets from this group of talented women, the improvement in perfor­mance is noticeable. 
"There are teams that five years ago we'd have trouble beating, and this year we're beating them 9-0," said Petro. "The first year we played Northwestern, we won a total of I 0 games -not matches or sets, but I 0 games. Last year, one of our individual players won 10 games, and we also won a match." 
Though things look very bright for the Irish, the season is not even close to being over. For the next two weekends, they will be involved in important tourna­ments, both of which will be held on the Notre Dame campus -the Irish Invitational and the North Star Con­ference Championships. At the close of the fall season, the team will take a long break before the spring season begins with even tougher competition than this fall. Then, after completing the regular season, Petro can 
begin to think about achieving the team's goal -that 
championship. 
"I think we have a good chance," she said. "I can't tell 

you how important it was to have been there last year 
-to have been so close." 
Will Petro make a prediction about what will happen? 
"We just have to be ready that day," she said. "Ifwe 

are ready that day to play, I think we've got a chance. 
"This team has a whole new attitude. We have a win­

ning attitude -an attitude that has never existed in this 
team's history." 
Does it seem silly that I am bringing to your attention an event that might not take place until you are at home for the summer? No, it isn't silly. I'm giving you the chance to take notice now, follow the team now, and be able to partake in some Irish success. 







