
Laetare Medal -page 5 

VOL XVIII, NO. 39 the imkpcmknt •;tulknt ncw~papt:r st.·n·ing notn-dame and ~aint mary·~ WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1983 

ByJACK AMARO 
News Staff 
Will Fall Fest become a Notre 
Dame tradition? 
The Fall Festival, replacing the homecoming day as a fall campus ac­tivity, will become an annual event beginning this year the week before the Notre Dame-Pitt football game. 
Tina Persson and Uza Salvador, co-chairmans of the festival predict the event will be a success and as a result it will be continued every fall. 
The Student Senate first suggested last year having a fall counterpart to An Tostal. Persson said, "homecoming the last two years have been fu.ilures." Students were to attend the football game and then attend a concert or eat dinner after­wards. However, "not too many people went to the concert or din­ner," according to Persson. The fes­tival will differ from the homecoming day because "instead of being one activity in one specific 
day this is going to be a whole week of activities. We believe that dif­ferent kinds of people will par­ticipate in different kinds of activities," Personn commented. 
Salvador said even though the ac­tivities will resemble the spring fes­tival format, "We did not want to mimic An Tostal. Our activities are totally different." 
One of those activities which the 
Fall Festival will introduce is a tug­
of-war contest in which one dorm 
may challenge any other dorm. An­
other new event will be a New 
see FEST, page 5 
Senate crushes Helms' attempt to block holiday honoring King 
Associated Press wiretap files from 1963 to 1968 brother, who was the attorney 
before Congress decides whether general." 
King, a Nobel Prize winner, should Later, Kennedy, his face flushed 
WASHINGTON -The Senate, in be honored with a holiday. and his voice quavering with emo­a bitter revival of the civil righ ts King was assassinated on the bal­tion. replied, "I am appalled at the debates of the 1960s, crushed 76 to cony of a Memphis, Tenn., motel .attempt of some to misappropriate 12 on Tuesday efforts by Republican April 4, 1968. the memory of my brother Robert Jesse Helms to block establishment The Senate was scheduled to vote Kennedy and misuse it as part of a ofa federal holiday honoring the late Wednesday on the holiday legisla­smear campaign." Dr. Martin Luther KingJr. tion itself, and Republican officials Kennedy said his brother Robert 
Leading a small group of con­s.aid it is expected to be approved by would have been among the first to 
servatives, the North Carolina a wide margin. support a holiday in honor of King Senator said King's affiliations with· Before the Senate voted against "whom he regarded as the greatest "far left elements and elements of sending the bill back to committee, prophet of our time and one of the the Communist Party USA" dis­Helms sparked a personal exchange greatest Americans ofall· time." qualified him for status as a national with Sen. Edwar t d M. Kennedy, D­"At no time did the FBI have any 
hero. Mass., when he recalled that Ken­evidence that he (King) was a com­
Supporters of a holiday to nedy's own brothers were munist or was controlled by com­celebrate the the civil right's concerned with King's alleged link munists," Kennedy said. leader's birthday denounced Helms to communists. He said a special Senate 
for running a "smear campaign." Helms said the late PresidentJohn committee set up in the 1970s to in­
Even as Helms argued on the F. Kennedy, cautioned King about vestigate CIA and FBI abuses of the 
Senate floor, a federal judge con­the communist background of his 1960s had found that the late FBI 
sidered his appeal for release of advisers, and that the late Robert F. director J Edgar Hoover had run a 
sealed FBI files. Helms said those Kennedy, approved FBI wiretaps on "reckless campaign" against King, 
documents would further his case King's residences and hotel rooms but turned up nothing to show any 
that King was influenced by top when Robert was attorney generaL foreign control or influence over the 
aides in the civil rights movement Southern Christian Leadership Con­
who were communists. "His argument is not with me," ference which King headed. 
U.S. District Judge John Lewis said Helms, peering across the The House voted 338 to 90 on 
Smith Jr. heard arguments from chamber at Kennedy. "His argument Aug. 2 to set aside the third Monday lawyers for Helms who said the is with his own dead brother who in January as a paid federal holiday Senate should be given access to was the president, and with his dead by a vote of338 to 90. 
Students claim Marriott bar raid tied to upcoming mayoral election 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY students involved. Sgt. J. Keene, one of the excise of­
News Staff Another student who was also ficers who participated in the raid 
issued a citation took this statement stated, "We intiated the raid, not the 
Some of the students issued cita­a step further commenting, "It South Bend Police. We received 
tions for underaged drinking at the makes sense because the Marriott's anonymous complaints, checked 
South Bend Marriot Hotel have said has never been raided before and their validity, and conducted the 
they believe the recent raids are the elections coming up. The mayor raid. The result was citations for 13 
politically mOlivated. wants to say he's cutting down on minors." 
The raid occurred last Thursday underage drinking." Not all of the students given cita­
night at the South Bend Marriott's "That's a fairly serious allegation," tions see any connection between 
"Tankard" night. Eleven Notre responded city attorney Richard the raid and the election. "If the 
Dame and Saint Mary's students Hill. He added, "(South Bend mayor police thought there was a lot of un­
were issued citations for underage Roger Parent) is never aware ofraids derage drinking, they would raid. 
drinking. before they occur. He at no time had Isn't that motive enough?" 
"The raid was because the elec­any contact with the South Bend "Maybe it's because it was at the 
tions are coming up," said one ofthe Police and the excise officers (who Marriott that it's gotten so much 
conducted the raid)." press," said another student issued a 
SMC Board seeks shuttle solution 
By SARAH WRIGHT 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance met earlier this week to discuss, among other topics, the shuttle­University Village controversy. 
It was agreed that representatives from both the housing area and Saint Mary's will meet after break to decide upon a workable solution to the current shuttle route problems. 
Also covered at the meeting was Saint Mary's Womens' Opportunity Week, scheduled to begin on Nov. 14. The week will feature the opportunity for all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women to learn about cur­rent available careers and choices they will be making when entering the working world. Guest speakers,to be announced later, will also be featured, and all students are encouraged to attend. 
The Ad Hoc Housing Committee will be discussing 
the possibility of interclass housing in which seniors, 
juniors, sophomores and freshmen would all share the 
same dorms. Many students, and especially upperclas­
smen, have complained to the Board because this 
proposal would mean the possibility ofliving in Regina 
Hall for more than one year. 
The Saint Mary's Oxfam fast, scheduled for Nov. 17, will be conductingsign-ups the week prior to the event. The fast will be held from Nov. 16 at 9:00P.M. until Nov. 1 7 at 9:00 P.M., and the money raised will go to Oxfam, a non-profit organization concerned with helping needy people. It was mentioned that it is important to sign up for the fast early so the cost can be estimated. 
An oral survey will be taken Nov. 9-10 in the SMC dining hall. This survey has been proposed in order to obtain student feedback on a variety oftopics including their opinions of the monthly events calendar, movies, and other activities, and those that they would like to see more often. 
Another Five-Hall dance has been planned for Jan. 21 
at  the  Haggar College Center. The last dance  was  
reporte d to have been very successfuL  
Also  on  the  agenda  was  Halloween,  the  first  

weeknight back from break. Everyone at Saint Mary's is reminded to bring back candy from break, because un­derpriviledged children will be trick-or-treating in the dorms from 6-8 P.M. 
The meeting concluded with Dr. Mary Ellen DePauw, director ofSaint Mary's counseling and career develop­ment, speaking on "stress management". 
DePauw suggested that students planning a busy academic week should try to get into a vigorous ex­ercise routine and should also leave some spare time for leisure, meditation, prayer, and sleep. 
She concluded by advising students looking to al­leviate stress to try to make positive life choices and account for her own needs, desires and idiosyncracies. Above all, she emphasized the need to keep a sense of humor and to keep things in perspective. 
Parent was unavailable for com­
see RAID, page 4 
ment. 

AP Photo
Mondale endorsed 
Former Vice President Walter Mondale in a Washington hotel room with Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley. Bradley endorsed Mandate's bidfor the Democraticpresidential nomination. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 19, 1983-page 2 
In Brief 
.I 
Astronomer Carl Sagan says that t:arthlings now havt: H..l million radio channds to scan in tht: st:arch l(>r sounds from life: on otht:r worlds. Sagan, a Cornt:lll inivt:rsity protbsor and prt:si­dt·rH oftht· Plant:tary Sockty, said Monday that a "univt:rst:-scanning systt:m" called META ( Mt:gachannd Extra-Tt:rrt:stial Assay) has bt·t·n t·stablisht:d at Harvard. It can st:arch millions of frt:qut:ncics, monitoring I to 20 billion hertz, by sweeping a small band of sky nt:ar Polari~. tht· north star. Because of the vast distances involved, "thnt· would bt: no dialogue, only monologue," Sagan said. "They talk, and w<.· listen." With a grant from the Planetary Society, users of tht· program now can monitor about H.4 million frt:qut:ncies the nt·xt l(>ur }Tar~ using cheap, lightwl'ight microchip technology, he _,aid. Tht: Los Angdt·s Herald Examiner intnvkwed Sagan by tdephone from Ithaca, N.Y., where he ~pokt· on META to tht· Divi­sion of Planetary Sl'icnces of the American A~tronomical Society. AP 
Pope John Paul II hdd a historic meeting Tuesday with I'rime Ministt-r Olof Pal me ofSweden, which restort:d relations with the lloly St'l' in ll)H.2 after a lapse of 4';'; )Tars. "It was very J;lscinating to ,,pt·ak to the pope about the problems of peace, democracy and social justice," Palme said. He said he hdievcd he wa~ tlu· llrst Swedish prime minister t·ver to meet a pope. Sweden broke with Rome in I ';27 during tht· Protestant Reformation. The popt·, n~t·anwhilt·, told a group of bbhops from Quebc:c that he will \'isit Canada, probably next Septt·mber. AP 
Monaco's Princess Caroline, daughtn of the 
late l'rimTss <iratT. on Tun.day visited patit:nts at the: Princess <.ratT llo~pital. whid1 was opem·d hy ha mother in ll)"""'· Tht: 26­}Tar-old printTs~ opened a new intensiH·cart: unit and was officially namnl patron of tht· 1.">0-hnl privatt· hospital. succeeding her mot­ha. who dinl la.'t }'Gtf. "I am ddighted to he: hac and l(>llow my motht-r's intert·~t in the hospital." she told Terry Miles, an American patient. AP 
Former "Saturday Night Live" comedian <iar­
rt·u .\lorrb nll ~hort hb appearance at a collegt· homecoming after I oo pat rolb \\ aiJ,nl out and a dean intt-rruptnl hb act to tdl him it \\ .1s too ohstTill'. "Thl· I rip wasn't lost. I tTrtainl\' learnnl a lot." .\!orris ~aid latl'f..\!orris\\ as telling jokes about college. parties and the dif'fl:rt'lll'l's hetwtTn the st·xt·~ Frida\· night hd(>re about (•00 (Woplt· .11 I a~t TennesstT State l'nivnsity in .Johnson City. Carl l'urvb. prt·sitknt oftht· Student (,o\Trnmcnt A~sol'iation, said spon­~ors \\ t-re looJ,ing fi ,,. an t'lllertainer who "would appeal to an l·ntirc audit·IHT; who would uphold an exciting, wholesome atmosphere tl•r IH>mtToming." But pt·oplt-startnl walking out on Morris and l>orman .S!IHI!, tht· dean of .student albir~. interrupted him in the middle of hh act and told him to "tont· down" his material. Morris n·turnnl to till' stage a kw minutl·~ later and told tht: audient·e, "Y11u'rl' going 10 get a mud1 shortt·r show than plamll'd." After tht: show. a group of student~ w'l'nl backstage to apologize to Morris. 
lle~pitc the !lap. :\!orris said he was willing to rt·turn someday to t·ntert;tin at the n>lkge. -AP 
Of Interest 
Have questions about law school? 
lkp!'l-sl·ntati\'es from more than l)() law schoob will bt· in Stepan (:enter totl;l~ until 1 p.m. to respond to inquiries about law schools and the applica1i11n protTss. Tht· representatives also will answer question~ about thl'ir school's particular program.-The O!Jsen•er 
Take a break from \'OUr ~tlldil'S with your senior ti.·llow dassmatt·~ tonight. Tlw ~enior dass is sponsoring a study break at Lll(>rtulll' at I 0. In· t·old milk and frt·~hh bakt·d t·o11kies will he _,ern·d. -'fbt• ( >IJst•n•er 
Sales of helium balloons to be released before 
the Notrt· D;tmt·-Pittsburgh I(IO!ball gam<.· will continue this evening anti tomorrow t:vt·ning in the dining halls. Sponsored by the Fall Festival commillt:t•, "The (;real Balloon Rat·c" costs ';()cents to en­ln. and first prize b S';O. -l'he Obsen•er 
Weather 
A 60 percent chance of rain in the afternoon today. Mostly douuy and cool. High in upper ';Os. An 80 percent likelihood of rain tonight and tomorrow. Mild tonight. Low in upper 40s. Cool tomorrow. lligh in mid to uppt:r SOs. 
Last call for ND? 
Is the tap finally going to be turned offat Notre Dame? 
After many years without having university regula­tions forbidding alcohol on campus, the Administration is beginning a process which will probably lead to much stricter rules concerning alcohol, possibly even to forbidding underage drinking anywhere on campus. 
A dry campus? At Notre Dame? No, how could it be? Well, it's been that way before and it can be that way again. Even now, underage drinking is not authorized on campus (surprise!), and the comments of leading administrators indicate that they are seri<iusly consider­ing taking the bottle from the students. 
Many students ( mysdf, until rt:cently, included) hdicvc that Father Heshurgh is able to overrule Indiana state law and eliminate the drinking age at Notre Dame. He cannot: Dean ofStudents.James Roemer emphasizes that tht: linivcrsity does not authorize drinking by per­sons undt:r 2 I years ofage. 
Legally, the Indiana Statt: Police or the St. joseph County Sheriff's Deptart-
Tom Mowle 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Wednesday 

this; the rules are rules, although the amazing inconsis­
tency in their enforcement might ht: unfair. If, howevn, 
the long-range plan is to stt:adily tighten restrictions on 
alcohol, the committee -and the Board of Trustees, 
who hear their commt:nts this weekend -might want 
to consider what good will bt: done hy this. 
Prohibition would face great opposition from the stu­
dent body. It would he violated, and the drinking that 
occurred would not he supervised by anyone, this 
would not be responsible by anyone's definition. 
But any ksscr changes 
ment or tht: Statt· Excise Of­would not be effective, ficers could raid any donn either. Beauchamp sees no­party room at any time and thing wrong with a student arrest anyont: drinking having a ben while watch­there. Ditto for private ing the foothall game on TV. rooms. So why havt:n't they? But ifone student, why not a Perhaps hccaust: they feel coupk of his friends? And is that on-campus drinkt:rs two beers any worse: than post: less ofa thrt:at to otht:rs one? And so we return to the than people at Corby's or same situation that exists 
the Marriott. Another reason today 
could be that tht: Notrt: Drinking is only allowed Dame party system is in­-not authorized or ap­tendt:d to promote respon­proved because ad­si/Jle drinking, with ministrators feel that adequate supervision in cast· students will drink. If they things get out ofhand. don't drink on campus, they This assumes, howt:v<.-r, will go elsewhert:, kading to 

that adequate supnvision is 
in fact provided. The 
Provost, in response to the Priorities and Commitments 
for Excdknce Report (PACE), has f(lflned a committee whose guiding principle is rhar an alcohol prohkm ex­ists on campus. 
The committee is supposed to decide whether the present university rult-s and thdr enforc(:mcr!t en­courage rcsponsihlt-drinking when studt·nts choose to drink. Father William Beauchamp, administrative assis­tant to tht· executive vkt: president and mt·rnber ofthis committee. says "Quilt: obviously, no." But it is not clear that any changes they may want to make would anually help solve tht: prohkm they sec. 
Thi~ year st:veral dorms havt: cracked down on hall ruks rt·garding alcohol, including imposing tht: man­datory S2<; fine for having beers in the corridors. Some evt:n have banned transporting dosed containers through the hallways, which might make one wonder how you get it to the rooms in the first place ... 
There isn't any justification for complaining about 
__The_Obser.Yer__ 
(.omp()sillonl:'ditor .... Su1.annc: anll Troy ( -~~uposilion Assistant.... ..... \'ac..·ationing 
l"J'(lesellers....  . ...... .'\tic. he.:II<: an<-1 Carol  
.\'1.'U.'S l:'ditor... ..  . ........... Jeff  
Cupr l:.tlilor ...  . ... 1\athlc.:c:n  

\po,-ts Cof~l' Editor... . ............... Jdf h!i'iriil'l'S Copy Fditor .. .. . .......... Roh /:ditoria/s l.a}'tml... Tom reatures l.tll'OIII ... ... Mary \D /Jtll' I tlilor.... . . B.1rhara \.\1( f)al' h/itur . . . .... ,\far~ Ann 
.·ld J)(•si~IJ... ......... Bill Pl.u>ftJ}tf'CI/Jh<'r... .. Paul c,·ul'SI. 1/J/'l'tfrtlll(('.'i ..... <.r.1!'th. Kc..-rn \\ ith llut c.1kc..·. \cott~. \id 
{!ti?J<• "flb<' /Jay 1 akes a fJitltlill~ and kt•t•ps onfwradi11R, (I ~Ill'\\ we !-thould h<.l\'l' kqll thost• razor 
hladc..·~ .IW<lY from him). 
Ponb. bert• u·e cvmt•l 
o~.:toiJt•r!Jn•ak drau·s IWtlr 
TheObMrver (USPS S99 2-4000) IS 
published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatoon penods The ObMrver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys College. Subscnptlons may be purchased tor $25p~r year ($15 per semester) by wrilmg The ObMrver. P 0 Box 0. Notre 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Oburver is a member of The Auocl.tlld PreN. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
L-----~-~-·-~·~-~·~·~-~-~---~--------~------------------~.---------.J·. !'-----------------------------' 
prohkms with safc:ty and 
control. It is almost guarantt:t·d that next year's edition of Du Lac will in­clude toughn rules, and tougher enf(>rcement. 
Alcohol will only bt· banm·d if the committt'l' feds it is the only choice, hut lkauchamp is alrt:ady on record saying. "'Ifsolving the probkm rt:quirt:3 a toughening of the ruks, such as a dry campus. so be it." But a dry campLis would only make the problem worse, and most rules changt:s would be e\Til hardt:r to justify than some ofthe: other university ruks. lfconsisll'nt ent<>rce­ment -which indudes issuing warnings, not just man­datory fines -of tht: present rules can ht: achievc:d, rather than tht: inconsistency oftoday, thc:nthere might bt· improvt·mt:nt in what Beauchamp and his commit­tee sec as the Notre Dame a((·ohol problem. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board orstaff 
r----------------~
I 
I I 
I I  INFLATION GOTYOUI  (,  I  
II  BLOOD BOILING?  II  
I  We can help relieve  I  

some of. that· pressure!
I HOW?wewillpayyou I 
1 up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I 
I It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfy II reclining chairs while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. I 
I You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your 1
1 I
second donation within the same week... AND we will give you a free physical exam and over $60 worth of tree lab tests. 
I PLUS I
I I
We Will Give You an Additional I $4 If you bring this ad with you. 1
1 ·(oifer applicable to first lime donors only!) I I I
For more information call 
I 234·6010 orcomeby515 LincolnwayWest I 1 Bring your 1.0. 
I ,.. ". c,AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS I 
A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others II • Tues and Sat 8am-5pm II Wed and Fri 9am-5pm ... 
...-~~~~-~~-----....~--­
The Observer Van Wolvlear outlines priorities for Placement and Career Services 
ByJANE KRAVCIK the student health center. "There 5400-500 per dance, goes to HPC. News Staff seems to be some difficulty with Connolly urged the hall presidents keeping nurses. It may be because to attend the dances. "It is a good 
Father John Van Wolvlear, vice­our rate ofpay is lower than that ofa time, relaxing, and lots of fun," he president of student affairs, iden­hospital," he said. One proposed said. tified the improvement of the solution is eliminating in-patient Diane Kozak and Roger Wilke, Placement and Career Services services during the summer. members of the campus or­office situation as the major ob­Robert Johnson, president of ganizationn Circle K, presented a jective ofhis office this year. Zahm Hall, asked Van Wolvlear what plan for a 24-hour basketball game 
The matter was discussed at the he thought about the alcohol to be palyed for the benefit of the Hall President's Council meeting problem recently discussed on Muscular Dystrophy Association on held last night at Pangborn Hall. campus. Van Wolvlear replied, "One Nov. 18. The game will include 48 
Van Wolvlear cited the present rector I talked to said that freshmen teams, each playing for an hour, situation of the Career and Place­are drinking less this year. He said representing dorms and other ment offices as "abominable" and that he actually had beer left after a campus organizations. Each team observed that many students who party." will have to pay a S30 entry fee now interview for jobs on the _Stanford Pn:sident joe Lynch which will be given to the MDA. second floor of Lafortune feel like agreed with Van Wolvlear's observa­"they are donating blood" because tion. "Freshmen seem to be socializ­Also discussed at the meeting was of the screens used to provide ing more while drinking less." the Trojan horse being built for the privacy in the ballroom. Tim Conolly, coordinator of University of Southern California 
One solution that was brought up Chance to Dance, announced that football game on Saturday. Adjunct was moving the Career and Place­the first dance will be held on Nov. Accounting Professor james Ward is ment Services to the basement ofthe 18. He speculated that two to three in charge of this project. In addition library. This space is presently used more of the dances will be held this to building the horse, those involved . for faculty offices, but will be semester. in the project are chalking "The vacated when the faculty office Chance to Dance is organized by a Spirit is here to Stay" on sidewalks building is completed. member of student government but and buildings, and encouraging the 
Van Wolvlear's office is also is under the jurisdiction ofHPC. The dorms to hang banners for Satur­working on the problem of nurses at funds raised by the dances, usually day's game. 
OXFAM fast to help those in need 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTT OXFAM America is a non-profit Sign-ups will be in the Saint Mary's News Staff agency that funds self-help develop­dining hall from Nov. 1-8. and also at AI' Photo ment projects and provides aid in 
Liberated editor 
More than one thousand Saint poverty stricken areas of the world. the Campus Ministry office. Door-to­Mary's students are expected to par­The organization, based in Boston, door sign-ups will also be con-juan Pablo Cardena, left, editor ofthe Chilean news magazine ticipate in the third annual OXFAM was established in 1970. Ana/isis, leaws jail Monday after 20-day confinement for 
ducted, to ensure that all students
America fast. criticizing the ruling armed forces in an editorial. He stillfaces 
have the opportunity to participate
Students and faculty at Saint Turgi states "The purpose of the trial on national securi~y charges.
in the event, said Gallagher.
Mary's will have the opportunity to fast is really two-fold." The primary help those in need by participating purpose is to raise awareness in the Oxford Committee for Famine concerning hunger around the Relieffast on November 17. world, she continued. The fast also 
National reconciliation meeting
The Social Justice Commission serves to raise funds for the needy. and the World Hunger Coalition will The money is distributed world­wide as well as nationally and local­
planned while violence continues 
ly. Alarge portion ofthe funds is sent Associated Press capital will guard them. ghold of Shiite Moslem militiamen.
to OXFAM America.
'The primary purpose is to 
The conference was called for in It also reported gunfights betweenThe dining hall donates a flat rate
raise awareness concerning 
BEIRUT, Lebanon Snipers the Sept. 26 cease-fire that reduced army positions at Souk d-Gharhfor each student who makes the
hunger around the killed two Lebanese soldiers and but did not halt three weeks ofcivil overlooking the airport and
decision to fast. Over one-half of the
world. The fast also wounded an Italian member of the war. Bickering over where and surrounding Druse areas.
cost ofthe meals is contributed. Stu­multinational force Tuesday, and the when to hold the conference has
serves to raise funds for An Italian soldier suffered a gun­
dents can break the fast if they so 
government said Lebanon's warring
the needy.' delayed the conference. shot wound in the right shoulder on
desire, "but very few did last year," sects will hold their long-delayed na­It is unclear why the airport site the road linking Beirut to the air­said Turgi. 
tional reconciliation conference at 
was chosen. Anti-government gun­port. a spokesman for the Italian
Approximately 800 students co-sponsor the event. Students will signed up for the tast last year, Beirut airport. ners have been shelling and sniping contingent said. He said the man did A statement on state-run Beirut at the 1,600 Marines deployed at the not require hospital treatment.
forego their three daily meals at the raising S1I00. This year, the goal is radio said President Amin Gemayel airport for weeks. Two Marines have The Lebanese army closed a sec­
Saint Mary's dining hall to raise funds to have at least 1,000 students par­for the poorest regions ofthe world. ticipating. will participate in the meeting been killed and six wounded since tion of the major airport highway to 
Thursday of Moslem, Druse and last Friday. 
traffic for several hours after police Christian leaders, aimed at endingThe fast began three years ago on 
campus due to the combined efforts According to Anne Gallagher, Violations of the cease-fire per­warned of heavy sniping along the 
eight years of turmoil. It said U.S. sisted Tuesday. State radio said two road.

of Sister Mary Turgi, Volunteer ous activities such as speakers, 
Marines and other members of the Lebanese army soldiers were killed
Service Coordinator, and Tom Reid, filmstrips, and prayer services 
multinational force patrolling the at positions near Chiyah, a stron-
Director ofCampus Ministry. during during the fast day. 


Thursday Night Buffet 
is back....... 
Ius all new Margarita Bar with 11 flavors 
. 
IS now open. 
Margadtas will be. on special for $1 from 8-11. 
Buffet opens at 11. 
The U.S. Embassy had no im­mediate comment on the reconcilia­tion meeting announcement, and Marine spokesman Maj. Robert Jor­dan, asked about the choiet; of the airport, said he was unaware it had been named as the meeting site. 
Earlier in Dam t ascus, leftist op­position leader Walid Jumblatt said he would prefer to meet at the air­port under guard ofthe multination­al force, rather than at Gemayel's earlier choice, the presidential palace. 
3 to 4 USC GA TIX needed 
Offering $100each 
call collect Mike Mulligan 312-751-ll 11 
.............
*
~ ** :"Happy H_our" 5·8pm ** 
*Mixed Drmks 2 for 1 : : 12oz. Draft..........so~ : lf. 8-3AM * : Music by Dewan! ~ 
~ Go Irish!! Beat Trojans ~ 
':_if!f_lf!f_Jj-_lf~lf:!f:Jf.¥:1J-_1f:!f..1f_¥:J.•
* * 
The Observer Wednesday, October 19, 1983-page 4 
Indiana priest sparks IRS probe 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOI.IS -Mcmhers of a church council arc "seeking guidance of lhe lloly Spirit" in deciding how to dc.·al with an Inter­nal lh·n·nuc Sc.·rvin· demand for laxc~ il claim~ arc owc.·d hy !heir parbh priest. rhc group's pn·sidcnt 
~aid '1\u:~day. 
Karhkcn S. Wallat'l'. prcsidcnl of lhc lloly Cro~~ Catholic Church Council. ~aid rhc.· group will mc.·c.·t Sunday to cry and c.kcidc ifir will pay till' more.· !han S600 in taxc~ and in­terc.·st the.· IRS wants. 
Il<>wc.·vcr. ~he.· ~aid the announcc­mem of the.· church's dcdsion will he announced to church mcmht·rs hl'li>n· il is mac.k puhlic. She.· did not know whc.·n that would he 
The.· Hcv. Cosmas Raimondi hq.\an wirhholding half hb ti:dnal income raxt·~ in I9H.2 10 prolt·~r military spending. In paying his laxt·s, Haimondi included a nolc explain­ing hb reasons for not paying rhc full lax and said rhc.· withhdd portion wa~ hdng donated to human st·rvicc.· agenck~. The IHS ha~ now askt·d rhc.· parish council, which ans as lhc pries!'~ c.·mployce. 10 pay rhc morwy. 
"I'm pnpkxcd in the.· sense chat rhc.· IRS would know that I'm sdf. employed and nor an employc.·c of !Ill' parish." Haimondi said Tuc.·sday. 
Mrs. Walhtt'l' say~ rhc council was notilinl of rhc pric.·~t's lax decision on Aug. <;, 
"lk said he.· was withholding';() pc.-rcc.·fll of his laxt·~ in protc.·sr ofvast irll'rca~cs in ddi..·nsc.· spending hy the fnkral govcrnmc.·nt. in parricular c.·s­
cal~ttion oftht·nuclcar arms race and inncasnl military inrc.·rvcnlion in Ccnrral Amc.·rica," Mr~ Wallan· said. 
In a pn·parnl srart·mcnl. Mrs. Wallan· s~tid onmdl nwmhcrs han· had st·vt·ral mc.·c.·ting.' conn·rning the matter ami have abo inli>r!l1l'd mc.·mhn~ of till' pari~h from lht· pul­pil al masse~ and in wriling. 
"The.· Council ha~ agrn·d to sc.·ck guidance of lhc lloly Spirit in its c.kdsion," she.· said. 
Mr~. Wallace said the.· council was told hy l{aimondi thai ht· had donalnl !Ill' wirhhdd rax mont·y to various soda! sc.·rvict· agencies. 
• • .Raid 
continuedfrom page I 
dear ion. 
lkvcrly Crone. a Sotllh Bend city council member. otkrnl anorhcr c.·xplanarion for !Ill' raid. "Maybe wilh ~dum! srarting rlw polin· wanrl'll lo avoid a larger probkm down rhc.· road" by making a poim agaim underage drinking. Funhcr. she.· doc~ nor "~c.·c.· !Ill' probkm of un­derage.· drinking a~ an issue in rhe mavoral ran· al chis lime." 
"Till' mayor wanh lo sho\\ he's crying," said one.· ~tudc.·nr. "and the ,\tarrioll raid wa~ sonll'l hing our of !Ill' ordinary to ~how char." 
Hobnl H. lluckkll. as~islalll prokssor of gon·rnmc.·nt and inrc.·r· nalional rdation~. is familiar wirh South Bc.:ml politic~. lk responc.kd. 
"II doc.·~ nol tic into :1-layor Parc.·m's past behavior in polil it's. I cannot sc.·c.· how it would benefit him. In rhe primary. rhc.· issue.· was raisnl hy Me.:< iann. nor Parent." Parent c.kkarnl Mc<iann in the.· lkmocratic primary. 
lloward <ioodhn\. l'arenl's lkpublican dullengcr in tlw November gcrwral dt'l'lion ~aid. "I am nor a lan·rn campaignc.-r. I'm nor planning co make iran issue." 
Allempt~ 10 reach the South Bend Police.· Chid wc.:rc.· unsut-cc.·ssful. I lis oftkc directed Tbe Obsen•er lo other pcrsonnd who would nor comment on lhc reason for the raid or it:-riming. 
Tht· students who rt·ckved cita­tions asknl to have their names wilhhdd from puhlil'ation. 
In August, the IRS served notice to the church that it had put a lien of S';93..26 against the priest's salary. Mrs. Wallace said the coundl had not acted on the demand fi>r pay­men! hy the Aug. 30 deadline set hy the IHS. 
An IRS rcprc~entative appeared at hn home on Sept. 16 and presented a demand for S60.:i. I H, Mrs. Wallace said. 
Mrs. Wallace.· said council mt·m· hers mt·t with an attorney and an "outside facilitator" the.: next day to decide on their next step. It was af­tc.:r that mcc.·ting that imput from memhers of the parish was re· quested. 
Raimondi says he knows of anoth­
er priest in Ohio who has made a 
similar prolcst and that he has heard 
of others around the nation who 
have also withheld tax payments in 
protcsl ofgovernment spcnting. 
"I havt· no idea how many priests 
are making this type of protest," he.: 
said, "hut I know there arc several." 
The IRS ~ays it is only t~·ing to col­
lect taxes owed. 
"This whole anion -I almost fl'cl like il's incrcdihk," says Raimondi. 32, who has hecome known as a so· cial activist priest in the city where he.· grl"w up. "I want the IHS to carry our thdr process against me. I did nor expect them to gt·t my parish in­volved." 
The prit:M said he hegan thinking 
about a protest after tht· killing of 
thrn· Amc.·rican nun~ in El Salvador in 1980 caused him to examine "the real meaning of my ministry." 
"Christian theology has always held that there are times when it is necessary t break the law in order to uphold the principles of Christian faith," he said. 
An IRS spokeswoman in In­dianapolis. Deborah Moore.:, said it is common for the agency to "go to the employer of record" to put a levy on the salary of a delinquent taxpayer. 
Mrs. Wallace says the issue has divided the opinion ofthe congrega­tion on the correctness of the at:· tions of Father Cos, as many parishoners call their pastor. "We've heard a supportive response, and we've heard some fears." 
Indianapolis Archhishop Edward 
T. O'Meara has "reserved some judg· ments" on the matter, says Raimondi, who conferred with the archbishop before starting the tax protest. "He is allowing us the freedom to discern what is best for our community." 
Chuck Schisla, a spokesman for the Indianapolis Archdiocese, said thai "to the hest of my knowledge the archhishop is not directly in­volved in the dispute and it is he­tween the IRS and the individual church." 
Raimondi hopes the 13-member council will not pay the levy. 
"I have told them I will abide hy their dedsion and will not apply pressure, hut I intend to give them my opinion," he said. 


Located off the Nazz in the basement of LaFortune Hours: 12:30·5:30 
College Night 
Thursday, October 20 
3 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Precision Haircut & Style-Only $7.50 Terrific campus cuts at super savings with student 1.0. Free gifts & refreshments. 
R9GIS HAIRSTYUSTS 
University Park Mall• 272-1168 
0
.'.' • 0 It I I 0 I I.'.' I I I 11111 o 111 •.•. • 1 •.-.,. ..... -..... .._='• ·,·, •• ··~\fllo. 4 , 1 ~ .. • .. • .. ·.',/.-.. •"'• J'./.;,_•,/J 
L__ 
The Observer Wednesday, October 19, 1983-page 5 
Joblessness rate drops in majority of states 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Only I 5 states had higher August unemployment rates than the 9.1 percent rate of In­diana in August. according to figures announced Tuesday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
Indiana was one of 40 states recording a lower unemployment rate in August than a year earlier and joblessness in a half-dozen Eastern states registered sharp declines over the same period, the Labor Depart­ment said. 
Indiana's seasonally unadjusted 
rate represented a drop of nearly 2 
percent from the 10.9 figure 
recorded in August 1982, officials 
said. Four other states also had 9.1 
unemployment rates. West Virginia, 
with 16.7 percent joblessness, con­
tinued to suffer the highest un­
employment in the nation, although 
its rate receded from july's 17.4 per­
cent level. However, the new rate 
represented a sharp jump from the 
I 3.7 rate ofAugust 1982. 
Michigan had the nation's second highest rate at 13.4, a decline from 
14.5 in August 1982. 
The Bureau ofLabor Statistics said the labor market deteriorated in I0 sates and the District of Columbia. 
The declining unemployment was most apparent in Rhode Island, whose rate fell 3.1 percentage points, and Alabama, where jobless­ness plunged by 2.8 percentage points. 
In August, 1 5 states and the Dis­trict of Columbia had rates higher than the national rate, and 35 states came in below the national figure of 
9.2 percent. 
On Oct. 7. the department reported that the national civilian unemployment rate, adjusted for seasonal factors, dipped from 9.5 percent to 9.3 percent from August to September as some 400,000 Americans found work. 
The labor market statistics for all 
but the I0 largest industrial states 
are reported about six weeks behind 
release ofnational figures, due large­
ly to a more intricate data-gathering 
system. 
States with the lowest unemploy­
ment rates were: New Hampshire, 
4.1 percent; North Dakota, 4.2; South Dakota, 4.3; Nebraska, 4.9; and Virginia and Connecticut, 5.3. 

Observer photo fik 
The apsidal chapel in Sacred Heart Church where Laetare Medal Centennial Mass will be celebrated. Story on right. 

Laetare Medal winners honored 
Special to The Observer 
A chapel in Sacred Heart Church 
will commemorate American Cat­
holics who have received the 
Laetare Medal, the University's hig­
hest honor, in ·observance L>f the 
award's centennial anniversary. 
Notre Dame President Father The(Jdore Hesburgh will be the prin· cipal celebrant of a Mass dedicating the apsidal chapel Friday (October 
21 ) at 5:15pm. 
It will contain three bronze plaques listing the names of the 104 Laetare Medal recipients, as well as a leather-bound album providing biographical notes on each of them. First awarded in 1883. the Laetare Medal was conceived by ]arne F. Ed­wards, a lay faculty member who beleved that American Catholics needed some tangible recognition of their various achievements. 
It was awarded exclusively to lay persons until 1973, . after which priests and religious became eligible. The recipient of the medal is announced each year on Laetare Sunday, a liturgical celebration which anticipates Easter and an oc­casion of joy during the otherwise penitential season of Lent. ("Laetare" means "to rejoice" in Latin.) The award is modeled on the "Golden Rose," a papal honor be­
stowed on Catholic nobles and aris­tocrats since before the eleventh century. 
This years's Laetare Medal was awarded to Edmund and Evelyn Stephan of Chicago for their service to the University while ht· was chair­man of Notre Dame's Board ofTrus­tees. Past medalsts include presidential candidate AI Smith; singer John McCormack; actress 
continuedfrom page 1 
Otleans·style Death March. Students will be led to a bon fire at White Field (the location uf the An Tostal mudpits). The Pitt Mascot will be the firestarter ofthe bonfire. 
Discussing the problems that the festival committee has encountered, Personn commented, "At the begin­ning not everybody thought that we would be successful. Now the feed­back is more positive." Persson elaborated on the support given the committee by stating "most of the response has been individual. The support that we have had comes from the people in the hall not from the hall per se". 
Irene Dunne; former l :.s. ambas­
sador Clart· Boothe Luce; President 
John F. Kennedy; Supreme court Justice William Brennan; Dorothy Day. co-founder of the Catholic Worker movement; Thomas P. "Tip" O'Nt"ill, speaker of the House of Represt·ntatives: t(>rmer Secrt·tary of State Edmnd Muskie and Cardinal John F. Dearden, retired archbishop 
of Detroit. 
• • .Fest 
The administration has kept the committee int(>rmed on the possible changes of the starting time of tht· Notre Dame-Pitt game. According to Persson. the administration has assured the committee the game will start at 4:00 p.m. at the latest. "Nobody knows the definite time yet" she added. 
Salvador commented "if it snows it won't affect us at all because we took the weather condition into consideration when we were working out the different activities." 
The Fall Festival begins October .~I with a Halloween dinner in the dining halls and will conclude with a Mass at Sacred Heart, to be celebrated by llniverity President Theodore Hesburgh. 
r-----------------ctip&save----------------, 
Perfect For Tailgaters! 
PARTY SUBS 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses I & Choice of Toppings 
3  feet  serves  20·25 ... $30.00  
4  feet  serves  25-30 ... $37 .50  
5  feet  serves  30·35 ... $45.00  
6  feet  serves  35·40 ... $50.00  

ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS &SALADS 
the 
DELI
Glenmary Home Missioners Room 
1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN
Box 46404 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 
Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance 
Name ___________________Age ____ 
Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 
Address 
Jeff Etoll, owner, N D '78 
City _____State ____________J-'·p -----­
255-7797 
1.•••••••-••-••• clip&save-••••••••••••••"" 
Wednesday, October 19, 1983 -page 6 
Vieweoint 
Cap'n Crunch: Go back to Chicago 
lkarCap'n, 
Rardy do I complain about a studull nTnt 
to which till' adminhtration has given ib nihil 
ohstat. Ncvt·rthdt·ss. many of us wish you'd 
pack up your hags and leave. 
Nobody blames you li>r being here. You'n· out to makl· a buck and garner some publicity. What t·ompany wouldn't jump at the chanet:. 
Keith Picher 
Profundity's demise 
It's not the studt·nts' fault either. The sopho­mon· dass oflkt-rs nn·dt·d an issue for their platli>rm. Though their campaign promise was a hit silly, it made mort· st·nsc than most. The sophomon·s will all make fine politicians somt• day. 
And nobody really blames the administra­tion eithn. The Church has yet to issue a proclamation denouncing Cap'n Crunch (though there's talk in Rome of condemning lloncy-nut Checrios ). 
Tht: administration, contrary to popular hdid, doesn't hate Notre Dame students, in fact they even like to sec them have fun once in a while. Administrators seem to he listening to studt:nts more and more these days. 
I :nfortunatdy, they listened this time. None of them wert: real keen on your visit, but to placate everyone involved they decided to turn the week into a charity event, or at least tht:y seemed to think so. 
I ht:ar you'll he making some visits to the hospital and some money will go to the needy, thanks to you. That's good, right? 
Wrong. You'd never have gone to the hospi­tal or donated S I000 had the University nut insisted. And the "charity money" students will pay comes not from their hearts, hut as a necessary evil to enter the contest (with hopes of winning a trip to Florida). I suppose the University could sponsor public stonings on the South Quad (like the ones in Montcy Python'sLife ofBrian), charge admission, and give the money to charity. I'm not sure everybody would like the idea, though. 
The real damage you've caused, Mr. Crunch, goes far beyond the trivialities of everyday campus life. I refer to the articles in The Wall Streetjournal and on the Associated Press wire. 
You sec, the media coverage your product desires is quite different from what the Uni­versity stresses. 
Notre Dame's press release hegins, "Area charities arc expected to receive 52,000 in food and cash gifts as a result of a wceklong festival honoring Captain Crunch of breakfast food fame." 
But the W!i] article begins with a headline identifying Cap'n Crunch in the "Issues ofthe 'HOs Dept." The article mentions charity in one sentence in the ninth of 10 paragraphs, and hegins with "After a sit-down strike, stu­dents have won their demand: an unimpeded supply ofCap'n Crunch, their favorite cereal." 
The AP article is not as had, though it too attributes the fest to a campus-wide struggle with sit-down strikes and student unrest. 
Thcjournal article pokes fun at student in­volvement in campus issues. Somehow they think the yippies and hippies of the '60s have hccn replaced by anti-intellectual apathetic students. 
You see, Mr. Crunch, many students here are concerned with volunteer activities, campus protest and social concerns -most students just don't give a damn about you. Notre Dame's image was hurt by the article, which appeared on the desks of every major businessperson in the world. 
This whok event reminds me ofan incident 
in a Florida bar last spring. In yielding to peer 
pressure, someone used poor judgement, the 
University was cmbarasscd, and the national 
media exploited the story. 
No, it's not your fault, Mr. Crunch -but 
you'd save us a lot of headaches ifyou'd pack 
up and leave. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Series finale 
/Jear l:'tlitor:: 
Sunday ni).:ht's fifth and final World Series gamt· ht·twn·n tht· Baltimort· Orioles and the Philaddphia Phillks resulted in pnhaps tlw most t·ntcrtaining livt· tdcvision d1splay in rnTnl memory. Following an ovt·rwhdming Oriole vktory. tht· Baltimore locker room hccamt· the familiar stage for post-victory t·xcitt·mt·nt and player commt·ntary. 
An appart'lllly• unprt·pan·d ABC 111m crew led hy "Mr. October" himsdf. Reggie Jackson. set li>rth coVl·ring tht: cert·monial trophy pn·st·ntation to tht· victorious Orioles. and thl'll announcing that tht: Prcsidt·nt of he I :nitnl States was on the tdephont: wishing to congratulate the wimll'rs. 
After fivt· minutes of audio and video dif­
lkultks. Vl'rhal fumhlings hy lkggk. and 
mulllnl dlt'tTS from an t:xuhcrant yTt 
confused Oriole tt·am. T.V. vkwt:rs could 
I;1intly hear tht: Prt·siduH's voin· as he spoke 
with Rkk lkmpsq·. tht· series MVP 
lkmpst·y was not without political com· llll'nt, stating t·xdtnlly hdi>rt· passing the receiver down a Jon).\ lint· of Oriole t'X­tTtlliVl's, that Mr. Rea).\an should "tell tht· Rus­sioms 1hat all we'n· doing over here is havin).\ fun playin).: hasdlall." Wt· wne unable to l!l'ar till' Prt·sident's reply. I womkr if lu­recognit.nl the irony of lkmpsey's l·hn·rful statement. 
Aller soml· tinll'. thl· phone was in the hand of_lm· Altohdli. the charmin).: mana).\cr of tht· World (:hampions. Ik ami lkagan exchanged a tc:w inaudible and apparently trivial words bd(>re Al!obl'lli hdd out the receiver. f~tced <:om missionn of Bast· hall Bowk Kuhn ami asknl. "You wanna tall-. to tht: Presidt'lll'" 
Kuhn. probably tht· most intdligl'lll pt-rson involved in tht· duradt·. thanknl Prt·sidl'lll lh·agan (with soml· t·mharrassnwnt) and l'ndnltht· conn·rsation. 
The f(>lly of the post-st:rks lot·ker room StTill' was just tht· trick ABC nn·dnl to lin·n things up after a World Serks which fdl far short of entntaining. Casting Jackson and Ht·ag;m sidt·-by-sidt· wa.' a stroke of gt·nius on tht: part ofprodtKt'r Roone Arledge. 
Al!hou).:h till' nTnt subdued tht· traditional­lv raucous victory t'l'lehration for tht: Orioles. 
and poisoned the credibility of two dis­tinctively American institutions, Major League Baseball and the Presidency, it still managed to amuse a few of us entertainment­starved television viewers. 
Tom Allen 
• 
Nuke editorials 
Dear Editor: 
A timt· comes wht:n the citizens of the 
world community must confront the most 
serious moral evil of our age and cry 
"Enough'" I refer, of course, to the horrific 
proliferation of nuclear weapons editorials. 
Tht: people of this planet must no longer be 
held hostage hy columnists, pundits and coali­
tions throughout the world who bombard us 
with t·ssays, articles and letters exhorting us 
to think about the "unthinkable." The article 
hy Mike Skdly (Oct. 14) may finally stimulate 
the quiet majority of this country to form a 
grassroots movement to Freeze Nuclear 
Weapons Editorials. 
After fourteen paragraphs of unthinking about the unthinkable, Mr. Skelly can con­dude, "Nuclear annihilation is not a pleasant thought." Now that was quite a revelation to me. But thcrt: was more to learn: "Man now has the means of complctdy destroying all civilization. and tht· destructive potentials grow daily." I must have been one ofthe many who "fail to realize this is precisdy the situa­tion every individual in the liS and USSR faces today." 
I am convinn·d that it is time to mobilize world public opinion in tht· struggk to halt the hideous. uncontrolled spread of nuclear wt·apons editorials. These editorials can he unleashed at any time, and arc capable of burying the world in tht· rubhk ofcliches and platitudes. \X'c will he under constant threat of brain meltdown if wt: stand idly by as the kadcrs of society deploy more and more banal truisms. and construct bigger and utter­ly inane propositions. 
Reports show that there arc at least twelve tons oftrite, repetitive articles about the arms race for every man. woman and child on the Earth. This sickening overkill capability ap­palls mc1 \X'c must stop this madness now!! As 
Mr. Skelly so originally put it, "Ignoring the 
prospect ...will  nut  make  the  threat  go  
away."  
Rick Auchter  

ND investments 
DearEditor: 
Michael L. Brennan's recent editorial on Notre Dame's investments was filled with rash inferences and inconsistent presumptions. 
Docs Mr. Brennan truly believe the trustees of this university arc engaged in a vast con­spiracy to promote unethical causes and make as much money as possible? Does he have any proof of the University's investment in defense industries producing nuclear weapons? Does he have any facts whatsoever that the endowment money is being used for immoral practices in South Africa? One can­not just buy stocks in apartheid. 
The University of Notre Dame's primary in­terest is not "profit maximization" as Mr. Brennan says. Its reason for being is to provide a Catholic education of the highest caliber possible. 
Notre Dame is a private institution which receives monetary gifts to its endowment for the purpose of continuing its services to the students. It has no responsibility to release documentation of how the trustees ap­propriate or invest endowment money. When a gift is made, it is made with no string.-; at­tached; it is made trusting in the judgement of those who administrate this university. So far, such judgement has not needed to be ques­tioned in the least. Until he comes up with documentation, Mr. Brennan should presume innocence until proven guilty. 
Why docs he think officials ofthe university are named "trustees" anyway? Michael B. Brennan Classoj'86 
Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. They must bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author(initials andpseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Letters must be well-written and typed. Material shorter than 250 words will 
receive priority. All letters are subject to editing and become the proper~y ofThe Ob­server. 
~~ 
·SEE IF VOU CAfJ riND WILLIAM CLARKS NlW INTLRIOil POLICY IN T~IS PKTUilL 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
==-Ihe.-Obset:ver==
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic Jinx {J. !V1•fr1' /Jaml'. /\' ·16"i"i(J I.! 1'-J) .!3'-J· "iJOJ Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
fbi' (UJSt'rl'l'r "1 he IIHiqwndent m·w,papt·r published h\ the ~lutknb of the Uni­Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas \'l'r'll\' of Notre l>amt· du l.ac and ~01int .\1an··, College It dol's not nt·n·~~ariiY rdkct News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen till' poltnl'' of the .HIIlllll"tratH>II of uther tfl,II!UIIon Tlw nt'W' is n·portnl a~ al News Editor .................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzaum: i...a Croix l·ur;Ut·Jy and 01~ ohfnti\TI\' .1~ pos~1hle I n'ignnleditoriab rt·prl'~l'nl the opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . ............. Mark Miollo m;IJortl\' of the hlltort.d llo.1rd <omnH'flLirte'. leut·r~. and the lnsidl' Column pn·scnt Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamilto11 System Manager ............... Kevin Williams 1he new' of I hnr author' ( .olumn 'Jlatl· ";1\ ailahle to .Ill mernht-rs of I he commun_itv. Photo Editor .................... Scot! Bower .md the frl'l' t'X)lrt'""'n of Ltn rngoptnlotl' on ctmpu~. through lct!t·r~. i~ l'nl·ouragcd. 
.\jwrts l:'ditor . . .... \1ichacl SulliYan _ •'oundrd November 3, 1966 
r-------------------------­
Showcase 
Miss Manners 
When creatures crawl in the rice bowl 
byJudith Martin 
DearMiss Manners -Halfway through supper tonight, I noticed a W(·>rm about a fourth ofan inch long in my rice. Several more were found in the rice bowl. Having lived overseas, we just picked them out and continued eating. 
Then I began to wonder what we should have done ifwe had been so unfortunate as to have guests present. Should I have apologized and offered to pick through the remaining rice, or feigned ignorance and tried to distract their attention from the food with lively con· versation? 
Gentle Reader -Where overseas did you live? Never mind, Miss Manners would actually prefer not to know. 
In any case, you will find people here slightly more fastidious than you have become. Miss Manners herselfwas roundly chastized for admitting the possibility that cooks sometimes taste what they are cooking without sterilizing the spoon between tastes, and is not about to condone serving worms to guests. Not that she doesn't admire your sang-froid. 
I 
You must treat such an occurence as an emergency, whether it is or not. On first sighting, get up, remove the rice bowl, and inform your guests that you saw "something, probably just a speck, in the rice, but I don't want to take any chances," and give them fresh plates. Ofcourse, you will then get a great deal oflively conversa­tion. as they express their curiosity about what you found, but you must insist that it was merely a suspicion, and remove the evidence. Picking through the rice for animal life, making jokes such as, "How much can a little thing like that eat?" or serving worms to guests are 
not c~nsidered to be in the best oftaste. 
I 
Dear Miss Manners -Please advise this Gentle Reader about the etiquette oftravel for couples who are unmarried to each other. The main questions concern hotels. 
How does one make discreet reservations? How do the parties register? How is information shown on the registration form, and ul­timately on the bill? What other complications are there? 
All ofthis assumes a mature, well behaved couple. 
Gentle Reader -It is widely assumed that hotel clerks are fero­ciously interested in the morals ofthe guests, and that waiters are fiercely involved in judging the table manners oftheir clients. Some­how, Miss Manners tends to doubt that these people are either so emotionally committed to maintaining public standards, or so hope­lessly bored as to have nothing better to think about. 
In any case, it is not necessary for you to explain your living ar­
rangements to strangers. Many married women now use their own 
names, and the clerk who is asked to take a reservation, room assign­
ment or bill for Henrietta Popover and Monty Chatsworth cannot 
safely assume that they are not a married couple, brother and sister, 
parent and child or other conventional combination, ifthere are 
others that have slipped Miss Manners' mind. 
One ofyou may register for a room for two, or you may both put 
your names on the register. The hill is properly made out to the per­
son who plans to pay it. 
Dear Miss Manners -I recently accepted a lunch invitation from 
a business acquaintance whom I had not seen in some time. We were 
having a pleasant table conversation, chiefly related to business mat­
ters, when he suddenly asked, "How would you like to have an affair 
with me?" 
I was s(artled, but rather than create a scene, I politely but firmly 
declined, reminded him that he was married, and turned the con­
versation hack to other matters. 
When I related this incident to a close friend later, my friend 
remarked that my acquaintance's boldfaced proposition was an in­
sult and merited a stronger reaction, e.g. I should have left the res­
taurant at once. Only with more decisive responses, my friend 
maintains, will men be discouraged from such effrontery. By 
responding in such a low-key manner, did I implicitly condone his 
behavior? 
GentleReader -No doubt, your business acquaintance considers his request to be within prevailing social conventions, and may be able to buttress this beliefby citing the number ofacceptances he has received. 
Miss Manners, however, like your friend, considers such a proposition to be an insult. Ifthis man had been a gentleman, he would have used the proper form which is, "I have something to confess to you. I hope it doesn't ups<:t you. I've become obsessed by the thought ofyou-I think I'm in love with you. I have no right to say this -you know, I'm married -but I throw myselfon your mercy." 
The proper form only suggests that you are irresistible; the im­properone, which he used, assumes that you are available for sexual advances bereft ofemotional or moral conditions. The strictest proper response is, "How dare you?" and the slightly more con­ciliatory one is, "Ifthis is a joke, I find it in poor taste. I am a respect­able woman, and I expect to be treated as one." 
Stalking out is all right, too, but you run the risk ofhis following you, followed in turn by the waiter with the bill; or ofhi:> assuming that your arc merely leading the way to your place. 
Feeling incorrect? Address youretiquette questions (in black or 
blue-black ink on white writingpaper) to Miss Manners, i'ii ~afe 'of'" 
this newspaper. 
Copyright, 1983, United Feature Syndicate, Inc. 
by Kerry Kearney 
features staffwriter 
"Eddieand The Cruisers" 
focuses on a colorful group of up and coming young musicians who capture a great following offans by playing small roadhouses along theJersey shore. Meanwhile they are striving to change the Buddy Holly and Bill Haley styles ofthe ear­ly 1960s to their own unique form of musical artistry. 
The film opens with an investiga­tion ofthe unexplained death ofthe leader ofthe Cruisers led by a repor­ter for a rock news publication. The death occured twenty years earlier in 1963. Her probe inspires a sudden resurgence in popularity ofthe original music ofthe Cruisers. A new generation gets caught up in the Springsteen-like sound and the story ofEddie and his Cruisers. 
The film very successfully employs the flashback to illustrate how, over the span of 20 years, the remaining members ofthe band dealt with the powerful emotions that cracked the group's spirit following the tragic, mysterious death oftheir leader, the intense and talented composer ofthe group's trend setting songs. Strangely, Eddie's body was never recovered from the southern NewJersey river into which Eddie's turquoise con­vertible plunged the night that Eddie was demanded to com­
promise his reflective lyrics and sound orforfeit the financial backing that had launched him on his way to the top ofthe rock scene. The result of this compromise would surely mean a less Eddie Wilson musical tone and one less innovative. 
Michael Pare, who plays the lead role ofEddie Wilson""the head ofthe Cruisers, has enjoyelt'a briefbut sporadic acting career. He per­formed in a made for television movie, and in ABC's "Greatest American Hero" in a supporting role. Pare was immediatelysigned to the "Cruisers" project foregoing the usual manditory screen test when producers recognized him to be a natural for the Springsteen sound alike role. 
Helen Schneider costars with Pare, as his "girl" and lead female vocalist of the Cruisers. Though Schneider is also a newcomer to the 
film acting scene, her care1  '1as  
been well established for a  v  
years. Schneider holds the I  tor of  
being the first foreign rocks,  to be  

invited to perform her Broo.. Jyn sound in East Germany. She adds not 
only her fresh, natural style to the film, but also gives the movie's sound track a polished quality by having performed all her musical numbers live during the shooting of the film. This proves to be a notable and welcome change from most other film scores which are cut, dubbed, and manufactured in an editing room. 
Two weeks prior to the shooting of"Eddie and The Cruisers" the film's director, Martin Davidson, who in "The Lords of Flatbush" in­troduced such stars as Henry "The Fonz" Winkler and Sylvester Stallone, encouraged his players to 

Movies 
A Springsteen sound in the '60s 
in effect become their "Cruiser" characters. On that request the cast lived, talked and were the members of this vibrant rock group ofthe ear­ly '60s. In keeping with their charac­ters, the film's male stars dressed themselves in sleevelessTsand Ieat­her bombers. Helen Schneider sported Laura Petrie peddalpushers, the popular dress offemale rockers ofthe movie's setting. This two week transformation into character 
may well have been the tool which lead to the strong, natural actingthat graced this flick 
Overall; "Eddie and The Cruisers" combines the elementsofa good, ar­tistic feature film. The movie con­tains strong scenes ofsuspense, romance, success and failure, and a powerful portrayal ofcamaraderie. 

World I Want to Get Off," "West Side
Special to The Observer 
T
Story," and "The Smell of he Saint Mary's College Greasepaint, The Roar ofThe Women's Choir and the Glee Crowd," as well as "Praise Ye the Club of Mount SaintJoseph College Lord," "Ave Maria," and "Zion's in Cincinnati will present a joint Walls." concert at 8 p.m. October 20 in the The Saint Mary's Women's Choir, Little Theatre on the Saint Mary's directed by Raymond Sprague, assis­Campus. The concert is open to the tant professor ofmusic at Saint public at no charge. Mary's , will perform several num­
The Mount SaintJoseph Glee bers, including "Confitemini 
Club, currently on its annual tour Domino," "Thrt"e Folksongs for through the Midwest, is conducted Women's Choir," "IfI Had a Ribbon by Dianne Kronour, chairman ofthe Bow" and "Blow the Wind Souther­Music Department at the Mount ly,." SaintJoseph College. The group, Together the choirs will perform 
comprised of40 women, will per­"Psalm 150" and "Every Time I Feel form selections from "Stop the 
.the Spirit." 
The Observer Lafortune office accepts classified advertising 
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third noor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in per. son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per
Classifieds 
Wednesday, October 19, 1983-page 8 
day. 
MIKE COLLINS 1 bedroom house. large kttchen. large For Sale: Fuzzbuster Less than one year ALUM needs USC and PITT GAs! Help? NEEDED One GA for USC. Call Jan 
The lnsh Cross Country Runner who vers1ty Mall $200 & heal and utilities Call Negotiate. call Ruth 277·8425 
yard area. Cleveland Ad 2 blks E. of Um· old Excellanl cond1t1on. Pnce to Call Dave a238 2966. 
lh1nks has HOT, But a"er Saturday n1ght.NOTICES Everyone knows he's noll P.S. Your
237·0156 NEED STUDENT TICKET FOR USC I NEED 4 GA"S TO ANY HOME GAME 
Typ1ng ALL KINDS 277-a534 aHer 5:30 
W1lson Dnveaway Cars available for stu­dents to dnve anywhere 1n the country Call 2a8-7060 
BLOW AWAY USC WITH BUBBLES 
... / ..... 
CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS 
CHEESESTEAKSCHEESESTEAKS 
CAMPUS SCREAM IS BACK • 11 P.M. THURSDAY 1 0/20/a3 

"THE SPIRIT IS HERE TO STAY" 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST ONE GREEN. IRISH WOOL. DONEGAL HAT CALL 283-a929 IF FOUND REWARD IF FOUND NO QUESTIONS ASKED ENDA 
LOST.NAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET THIS JACKET HAS A GREAT AMOUNT OF SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE AND SO REWARD WILL BE GIVEN PLEASE CALL a810 AND ASK FOR JOHN 
LOST Pa1r of contacts tn a green-and­white case. somewhere off campus and very possibly on St. Louts Avenue Call Don at a2a2 11 you see them ·cause he sure can·t 
LOST Please. whoever found my gold watch, call Debbie al 277-4309 It was dropped on the road near the Gro!!o. or by the 1ra1n tracks at SMC Reward offered 
LOST Two Fountain Pens HeHy $$$ Reward! Call277·6367 
LOST Woman·s s1lver d1g1lal watch on Tues. Oct 11, between Haggar Center and Madeleva Please call M C. al4302 
LOST AT SENIOR BAR BLUE MOUN· TAIN PARKA W KEYS AND SCARF IN POCKETS 10 12 a3 CALL 2a3-1539 ANYTIME , REWARD' 
FOUND PortrBII of g~rl. found 1n Crowley Hall of Mus1c Wn!!en on the back IS the lollow1ng To Gary, w1th all of my love, Yours Always, Kathy 
LOST Rousseau's ON THE SOCIAL CONTRACT Probably 1n 0 Shag Please call Therese at a050 
LOST Two Fountam pens 1n small, brown leather case BIG DOLLARS REWARD Call 277-6367 No qqest1ons asked PLEASE IIIII 
Whoever stole my dark grey three p1ece sui!. please return 11 and l'lllorg1ve you Ill see you weanng tt you II take 11 off . g1ve 11 to me on the spot. and walk home red and wh1te II was taken from Mornssey s lobby on Sat nile (10/a). Return'' Call John at 35aO A reward Will be offered lor 1nfo on Its whereabouts 
LOST Gold Timex WATCH w1!houl num· 
bers on face Thurs . 10/13 between 
North 01n1ng Hall & Lew1s LIZ • 331 Lew1s 
7a15 
LOST A gold sk1rtp1n (looks like oversiZed safety p1n) on South Quad ear· ly Thursday even1ng Of GREAT sen· t1mental value! If found. please call Dot 3a6t 
found· calculator.on thursday october 13 you fell me 1ts type and where rt was lost and I gtve tt to you 
LOST GOLD BRACELET NORTH DINING HALL.D·LINE OR EAST QUAD REWARD CALL KARl. 4565 
LOST One pair of OIAOORA tenms shoes--wh1te w1th blue stnpe If found. pleaseconlactChns. at 3113 THANKS!!! 
LOST To whomever took my blue NO bookbag from south d1n1ng hall at lunch on 10114 PLEASE return the contents lo the owner (on the notebooks) You have my mator 1n lhal bag (plus I m blind w/o my glasses) 
FOUND BUBBLES BUBBLES BUBBLES CALL M L BRENNAN 288·5390 
FOUND SUITCOAT AT T SYA AT SMC CLUBHOUSE ON SATURDAY NIGHT CALL 2a4-4291 TO CLAIM 
LOST A SILVER COLORED BACK PACK WITH TEAR IN BOTTOM CON· TAINS IMPORTANT NOTES HAS THE WORD MacGregor WRITTEN ON THE SIDE IN BLACK PAOBABL Y LOST ON FRIDAY. OCT 14 IF YOU FIND IT. MY GRADES WILL THANK YOU REWARD HOUSEMATE FEMALE $175 MO EX· CELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD. CLOSE TO NO, GROCERY STORE, FUR· NISHED 233·6081 
WANTED 
NEED2T04 PITTGA'S WILL PAY BIG BUCKS II CALL MARK 11 n 
RIDEPIS NEEDED urgently lo Alabama lor October Break Leav1ng Sun., Oct 23 Call Mary Kay al7493 
AIDE NEEDED TO CONNECTICUT OR NEW YORK FOR OCTOBER BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES. CALL DAN6a24 
AIDE WANTED to Poughkeepsie, NY or v1ctn1ty. Need to leave before the USC game. Call M B. at 234·9521 aHer 10:00 PM 
Need 2 Loverboy T1ckets Jeff ( 1377) 
Need nders lo lhe TWIN CITIE~. Leave Thurs late T1m or Paul a307 
I need a nde from PH ILLY· TRENTON to NO on 10/30. Call Maureen at 8024. please 
To-or-from wan!MPLS needMPLS brk MPLS dave3039 11pm 
Weal Coast boy desperately needs rldeolo, from WASHINGTON D.C. over break to play tourist. Would prefer to see both football games If possible. Call Nick at 1426. 
ROUND TRIP AIDE NEEDED lo Wash­Ington, D.C. over break My prev1ous nde tell through! Help mel Call N1ck at 1426 
Need RIDE to CLEVELAND tor break Can leave before game Call Jack 1584 
A1ders needed to No Va/DC area. one way or both Leave Sun. Oct 23 Call Tnsh at 2a4-5213 or Marybeth at 1277 
NEED AIDE TO O'HARE AIR· PORT/CHICAGO IMMEDIATELY AF· TEA U.S.C. DESPERATE' KAA1.4565 
DESPERATELY need a nde to DETROIT area Downrtver on Sat. after USC game PLEASE call Cane x4525 
~eed nde to Jersey Fnday Call Carlos al 14a7 
NEEDED AIDE TO OHARE THIS THUA AFTERNOON CALL 1629 
A1de needed·COLUMBUS.OH-Oct Break-share usuai-Enc Xa192 
Need nde to/from ST LOUIS lor break. Can leave Fri or Sal. return Sun 10/30. W1ll share usual PAT 1003 
NEED nde 10 CINCINNATI. Leav1ng Fnday Call DAVE a11165 
Need a nde to C1nC1nal1 lor fall break for lwo people Willing 
A1ders urgently needed lo Chan TN or pis. between. Charles 1465 
CINCINNATI DRIVERS I NEED A AIDE BACK TO NO (PREFERABLY ON SUN· DAY. OCT 30). CALL SUSAN 2a49!! 
HELP' DESPERATELY NEED AIDE TO 
D.C. CALL MEGAN AT 423a(SMC) 
Need nde to North N.J. lor break Can leave Fn afternoon. Will share usual call Apnl SMC 5111 
RIDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL MICH AREA FOR BREAK PLEASE CALL MAGGIE 284·5091 
NEED STUDENT DURING BREAK TO WORK WITH APPLE lie AND LIST HANDLER -WORD HANDLER SOFTWARE AT CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. PAID, STUDENT RATE. CALL 53191F INTERESTED. 
Need nde to St LOUIS lor break Call Steve at a673 
wanted 2 11ckets to navy game. call 277· 4533 aHer 5pm 
HP-4tC OWNERS !!!I !I! TWO HP a2106A MEMORY MODULES FOR SALE at $25.00 EACH CALL 2a3-1539 
FOR SALE ONE USC GA. BEST OFFER.· ITS YOURS!I!CALL 277-a497 
2 USC STUD TIX · Best offer by Wed. gets them. Call3663 
FOR SALE 1 USC STUDENT TICKET CALL t 402 BESf OFFER 
FOR SALE 4 USC GAS ON 50 YD. LINE BEST OFFER BY THURS. 272· 75aO OR 272-1579 AFTER 6PM 
COMING SOON GROUND ZERO BUBBLES AT A DINING HALL NEAR YOU 
2 USC GA'S. THEY ARE YOURS FOR THE BEST OFFER. CALL 277·6159 AF· TEA 5:00 
FOR SALE 4 USC GA'S BEST OFFER CALL JOHN a367 
FOR SALE. 2 USC GA·s. Best offer call 2a4-4624(days) or 277-1797 (7·10). 
CHEESESTEAKS are here to eat ! CHEESESTEAKS ARE HERE FOR YOU! 
One h1ghly sought aHer USC sf Ilk call at09 between 7·9pm h1ghestoffer. I need money to go home! 
TICKETS 
Desperately need Penn State game liCk· els. Call Bnan at a795. 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2a450a4 
USC-NO 11x wanted Pay1ng most. (312) 246·4650. 
Need Non-student 11ckets to NO vs USC. Call collect, (312) 565·5959 x2013 or x2233. 
Need 2 USC GAS Call BRIAN 69at 
HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WANT TO SWAP FOR PENN ST CALL PAUL 1703. 
HELP 
A very RICH friend needs Pm GA's. He is willing to pay serious dollars for the tickets. Please help by calling David at 
277·1326. 
You'll be glad you did 
I NEED TROJAN (USC) TICKETS STU· DENT/GA SEMI-MEGA$$ CALL SAM. 1721 
I NEED 2 USC GAs. CALL JACK 277­3315. 
Need 4 NAVY GAs Doug 2774273 
I AM WILLING TO TRADE 2 AIR FORCE STUD TIX AND/OR CASH FOR ONE PIT STUD. TIX OR GAMY GIRLFRIEND IS ALSO NEGOTIABLE. CALL BARNEY 1222. 
NEED ALOT OF NAVY GA"S PAY $. CALL PAT al277-7595 
I NEED 2 USC GAS BIG DOLLARS. CALL3522 
PITT TIX ·· DESPEAATEL Y NEED 3 STUD. & 2 OR MORE GAS $$$ CALL SUSANNE (SMC)5482 OR (SMC)5047 
NEED 2 PITT GA"s. Call Kathy at 2966. 
HELP! I need 3.4.or 5 PITT GAs. Call Kev1n at aa77 
NEED 4 NAVY GAs DOUG-277·4273 
Desperately need two (2) USC GA'alor my old man. Call Brian at 3381 or 3382 II you can help In my dllemna. 
I need 2 Pill GA tickets Call Dave al277· 1327. 
Need GAs FOR USC. PITT, NAVY GAMES Laura 4367 or Kate 5515 
HELP! DAMSEL IN DISTRESS! Desperately need 2 USC GA's (have to GAME. CALL FRANK (1240) 
NEED. 3 Navy GA's. Please call Sco!! at 1582. 
G1ve lo a worthy cause·· YOURSELF' Take my money 1n exchange for 2 USC GAs. Call today-Rob-3251. 
GOTSTA HAVE NAVY GA"s x1695 
I need 2 tickets for lhe USC Game for priest who is offering eternal bliss in return II call Kurt at 369a. 
USC Tlx needed. Call 1776. 
CASH for USC tickets (GA preferably). Call Mike at 1850 
Rich, ·a3 NO grad needs 1 or 2 USC slu· dent ltckets. Also, need 1 P1tt student or GA. Call Dave or Rod at 1615. 
Need 2 GA's for NAVY game-call Steve at a63a 
HELP! I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL DAVEAT1801. 
DESPERATELY NEEDED· 3 NAVY GA's. Call Charlene at 2909. 
I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT TICK· ET CALL 1554 · DURING LATE EVE· NING IS BEST. 
Need USC fix, call Mark at 1229. 
HAVE 2 USC GA'S for sale. Call John 1taa 
Need 5 G.A NAVY tickets call Gus at 2550392 during the day seats need not be conseecut1ve. 
PITI GA'S NEEDEDIII Will pay b1g $$$$. Call Tom Hollerbach collect at (312) 565· 5959 
MIKE BRENNAN NEEDS 5 USC STU· DENT TIXS. 21111-5390. 
NEED 3 USC GAs PLEASE CALL 1627 
$$$ I NEED 4 USC STUDENT OR GA TIX $$$CALL ED 277-6295 
HELPI PARENTS WILL BEAT ME IF I DON'T GET 2 USC GA's! prevent child abuse. call larry at 1506. 
NEED 4 USC GA'S. WILL PAY BIG$$$$ AND THROW IN A CASE OF MOLSONS CANADIAN' CALL DAVE AT 3127 
HELP! I NEED GAISTU USC TIX. RECRUITING FUTURE DOMERS. LAUAA6a32 
Need 2 or 4 Navy GAs, Karl1596 
Need USC sludentllx. Karl 1596 
NEED a GAS FOR PITT MUST BE IN PAIRS. CALL KEVIN AT a636. 
FOR SALE· 1 student ticket for USC and 1 for NAVY··BEST OFFER CALL 4305 
Need 1 USC GA call A1ch at 2a8-7 446. EVES6·11. 
NEED 2 USC GAS. CALL SUSAN 6967 
For sale. 2 stud. Navy fix. Call a036 or ao3a II Interested. 
NEED NAVY GAS... CALL BETH AT 4541. 
HELPII NEED USC GAS OR ANY HOME GAME. 272~306,2321466. 
Need 2 or 4 GA tlx lor USC game and 2 GA's lor Navy game. Please call Helen at 284-5501 
2 NAVY GA'S WANTED. CALL 284· 5246(SMC) 
4 NAVY GAS WANTED. CALL WOZZ 1773. 
NEED 1 USC GA. CALL DAN 1022 
HELP! Need 2 NAVY GAs Please call JIM ata736. 
W1ll trade 2 Pill GA for 2 USC GA. Call Mike at 11 oa. 
WILL TRADE NAVY GAs tor PITT. GA's. CALL PAUL or HAMIL al1527 
Need 2 or 4 USC GA'o. Can trade 2 atud. tlx. Call1001 or 1072 
I DESPERATELY NEED 6 USC GAS. I WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFER CALL KERR I AT 234·9114 HELP!!! 
CALL JEFF AT 1809 
NEED 3 NAVY TIX CALL 272-a056 
NEED 3 NAVY GA'S BY THUAS CALL DONNA 2a4-9102 
NEED PITT GA. Have USC Stud. Let's Deal Steve 86.77 AHer 7pm 
HAVE a USC GA's MUST SELLI CHEAP! Call PAT at a654 
TICKETS FOR SALE for the lollow1ng games. 2 USC and 2 NAVY Seats are to· gether. Call Carlos at 277-3170 aHer 11 pm bestoffer 
Need 2 USC Already lost wg1nily, But w1l· hng to go at 11 agatn. 3560 
FOR SALE 1 NAVY STUD ALSO NEED 1 AIR FORCE STUD POSSIBLE TRADE CALL JEFF 3460 
HELP'! I need 1 STUDENT and 1 GA !IX lor the USC game'! Please call Julie at 4434! 
Help! Desperately need Navy GA's. Call Joe al6430 or Jerry at 2295 
NEED BOTH GA AND STUDENT TIX FOR ALL REMAINING HOME GAMES CALL MARTY AT a639. 
GO HOME EARLY FOR BREAK, BUT SELL ME YOUR STUDENT USC TICK· ET BEFORE YOU GO. CALL MIKE x a5a5. 
FOR SALE. 2 STU. NAVY TICKETS-40 YO LINE FRITZ al234·0319 
3 FRIENDS FROM KOKOMO FEEL SCALPING SHOULD BE LEGAL. NEED 3 GA TIXS FOR USC GAME CALL MIKE AT 2a7-3565. 
NEED TWO (2) GA'S lor. yes USC II $$ CALLa906 
HELPIII! I need two NAVY GA's $$$$$ Call3872 
Will trade 1 PITT Stud. T1x lor 1 USC Stud. T1x Call Chuck al 32a3. 
PERSONALS 
IF YOU HAVE OR HAVE NOT REGIS. TERED FOR THE DRAFT, HAVE OUES. TIONS ABOUT CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION, DEFERMENTS, EXEMP· TIONS, THE CHURCH'S POSITION ON BEARING ARMS ... CONTACT MAR· GARET GARVEY, CAMPUS MINISTRY, BADIN HALL (239-5242) FOR DRAFT AND MILITARY COUNSELLING. 
GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT!! TRY A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE. NOW DELIVER· lNG MON-SAT 9·12pm. CALL 272·4453 
I need Pm GA's Call David al 277· t326. 
LOOKING FOR A AIDE TO THE SHOW ME STATE· NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS AFTER THE GAME (OF COURSE). WILL PAY USUAL. CALL MOAT 1311. 
LOOK OUT· LOVER BOY AND AC/DC ARE COMING TO THE ACC··SOONI 
I WOULD WRITE THIS WITH MY BLOOD IF IT COULD GET ME USC TICKETS. I WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE FOR 6 PITI. CALL JERRY AT x1763 AFTER 6 p.m. 
CAP'N CRUNCH HAS SOGGY NUG· GETS!!! 
Court-martial the Cap'nl Court·mertlal the Cap'nl Court-martial the Cap'nl 
Cap'n Crunch Week: A bad joke run amuck! 
BUBBLES! 
Kaly McDonnell FUN'! 
SODOM AND GOMORRAH FRIDAY NITE USC 'PREPARATION' 
................................................................ 
Reputa!lon Is MUDI P.S,S, Not only is she lhe mcesl g~rl you'll ever date. shes the last one from here alleast. P S.S.S. That was lower than low! From: The g1rls who care 
TO BABY DOMER KEVIN CLEGG HAP· PY BIATHOAYI HANG IN THERE TIL BREAK' YOUR CRAZY COUSINS. DOUG AND LAURA 
DANA HOVIG DANA HOVIG DANA HOVIG BEWAAE!!II 
CAMPUS SCREAM IS BACK! 11 P.M. THURSDAY 10/20/a3 
DOUG. ONLY 4 MORE DAYS UNTIL I WILL BE WHERE I BELONG.. WITH YOU I LOVE YOU, JULIE 
Marya· Have a safe trip. Love. J1m 
Cap'n Crunch hates Mike Sullivan 
Tex loves the K111ens MEOW! 
Dallas Cowboys and Texas Longhorns RULE! 
M1ke Someday I may forgive you but I don'l!hlnk they will ever forget 
LIZ Meehan. You think you're BAD, you say you're cool. but you and I know you·re )USIa tool Fate IS aga1nst all you ph1llies. lhe moon ch1ld w1ll make you look Silly You·u try so hard. but to no avail because aga1ns1 the l!al1an you will surely tall! Good Luck! You need 11. 
ATTENTION N.D. MEN ONE OF THE WILD WOMEN OF THIRD FLOOR HOLY CROSS IS HAVING A BIATHOAYII' YES.SHANNON MAUGHAN TURNS 20 TODAY SO CALL HER UP AT 4389 OR COME OVER AND GIVE HER A BIG KISS I SHE HAS HAD A HARD WEEK Ill 
Hey PAT, Let us TICKLE your fancy HAP· PY BIRTHDAY Love Chenai.Stace Juli and Sheila 
J111 you always sa1d you wanted a dozen roses for your birthday ROSE ROSE ROSE ROSE ROSE ROSE ROSE ROSE ROSE ROSE ROSE ROSE Will th1s do?? Happy 20th Guess who? 
Jill Chnstian Is twenty today Noire Dame Beware 
ATTENTION 7TH FLOOR GRACE JUDGES WE CALLED FRI. NIGHT (AM 
711) TO FIND YOU BUT COULDN'T BAD NIGHT GUYS-WE HAD PLANS· YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT BEING JUDGED ON 7TH FLOOR GRACE IN THE LOUNGE IS NOT NEUTRAL GROUNDS. NO ADVANTAGES GUYS'!' 
CAMPUS SCREAM IS BACK· 11 P.M. THURSDAY, OCT. 20, 1983. 
"THE SPIRIT IS HERE TO STAY" 
Boston Club/Ph1lly Club Ta1lga1er Refreshments and food way before, all dunng. and way aHer USC game Look tor the Falcon and s1gns on Green F~eld near 
sentor bah Yo, come have some fun w1th some w1ld Easterners. 
Boston Club October Break Bua. Load1ng at 6:30 p m. al the C.C.E.. departing around 7 p m Ralreahmento as usual on the bus. Eat dinner before the bus leaves Have a wtcked awesome break One roundtnp and two one ways (Boston lo NO) roma1n available. 
Phlily Club/Boston Club Ta1lgatah Cheesesteaks, chowdah. Hoag1es and Boston Baked Beans won't be served, bul plenty of refreshments will. Saturday al a 
a.m. on Green Field near Senior Bar 
Look for the Infamous Falcon Everyone welcome 
The pope says: Down w1lh Trotans. 
cheesesteaks cheesesteaks; you had the d1n1ng halls' now have ours. HOWARD HALL WEDNESDAY NIGHT CHEESES· TEAKSI!II! FREE DELIVERY FREE DELIVERY. CALL 8200 between 9 00· 11 30 lo order !I! 
Maureen HAPPY BATHDAY!! How could I forget a day like today? Have a great one Your bro (By the way, how old are you now?) 
THE IGUANA LIVES ! .altha library. 
IS OFFERED CALL JIM AT 1766 entertain big brother. lhe lawyer). Call Beth Rosenotrelch Happy Birthday to a RUTH al277-a425 great gal. II any one would like to wish
Need 2 USC Willing to lose vlrglmly 6a59 Beth a Happy 19th B·Day, pleaoe call her at 8851. 
IIL..-_FO_R_S_A_LE-------1 
..................... ·············· .. '"
I NEED USC TICKETS. WILL PAY tor sale --one navy student ticket. call
FOR RENT 
CASH OR TRADE FOR 6 PITI. CALL 
'----------------' 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE 277·3604 
ET costume for rent Make your reserva· lions now! Have the best costume on campus! Call 2889842 aHer 7pm Ask lor Jeanette 
TWO ETR-ta HIGH FREQUENCY STEREO SPEAKERS $a5 00 ALSO ZENITH 7X35 EXTRA WIDE ANGLE BINOCULARS WITH CASE. $40.00 CALL 272·0387 
bulcherblock looseball table for sale like new call255 0116 
JERRY AT x1763 AFTER 6 p.m. 
Have one navy stud tiCket Will accept any reasonable offer -call Dave x1765 
NEED 2 USC GA"S. WILL BEAT ANY OTHER OFFERS IF YOU WANT LOTS OF$$$$ CALL BOAT 1615 
6926 
DESP~j\T.E for 2 Navy GAS v:-'!~ ~ay $$$!Call Mimi7863 ..... ...... HELP! 1 need 2 GA Tix lor Pill game call Kelly4120 
Have two Navy stud 11ckets SEATED TO· GETHEA. Will sell at reasonable pnce. Call Chris at 1736. 
... .. ........ . Remember last year at USC? The touch· down the refs gave lor free NO-USC 
REVENGE FOR THE IRISH' T·sh1rts on sale thts week dunng dinner -all dtntng halls $6.00 
BLOW AWAY USC BUBBLES BUBBLES BUBBLES Hey MEL. lchangedmym1nd.ldowanl!o hit you. 
To Dav1d (does anybody here play sax) Doane Lets do 11 aga1n! Aaaarugaaah' 
Dav•d. Ang1e and kids, Welcome lo the famtly! Aaaarugaaah' 
I 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame-USC game, to be played oct. 22, will also be shown live via closed-circuit signal in the arena ofthe ACC. All seats are 55 for the showing on a theatre-size screen, and tickets are on sale at the ACC Gate 10 and all regular outlets. NCAA regulations prohibit any live television showing ofthis game. -The Observer 
The Flying Fath.ers, known as "the Harlem Globetrotters ofice hockey," will playJa game on Wednesday, Nov. 9 at the ACC for the benefit of Phoenix House, the halfway house for recovering alcoholic women in South Bend. The Fathers, an internationally-known group of priests, have all at one time played either amateur or pro hockey prior to entering the seminary. They will play 20-minute periods against the Notre Dame club hockey team, the St. Joseph's High School hockey team, and the Ice Boxers ofthe Michiana Senior League. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will hold its second meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. A membership fee of S7 will be collected. All new members and interested players are invited. For more information, call Sean at 277-1405. -The Ob­server 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. Anyone interested in going to the Schell Regatta at MIT over break must attend. New members are always welcome. Anyone with further questions should call Chris at 283-1 150. -The Observer 
The Men's Volleyball Club will practice tonight from 7-9:30 p.m. in the ACC Pit. All must attend. -The Observer 
The Windsurfing Club will hold its last meeting before fall break tonight at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. Members are once again asked to bring proofofinsurance. Topics to be discussed at the meeting are T-shirt design, board storage, and the Navy game con­cession stand. All commissioners must attend, as well as Todd, San­tiago, Ikki, and Phil. -The Observer 

Wednesday, October 19th lOam to4pm in Stepan Center 
Representatives from 80 law schools will be present to answer your questions on admissions, financial aid, LSAT's, etc. 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
Wednesday, October 19, 1983-page 9 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will be holding its second meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the third floor gymnastics room of the Rockne Memorial. This meeting is very im­portant so members are asked to please attend. Seminars, future con­tests, and memberships will be explained at the meeting. Those unable to attend the meeting should call Matt Kelleher at 1206 after 11 p.m. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
In Freshman Interhall Swimmingyester­day, Zahm and Keenan tied for first in the men's division with 16 points apiece. Sorin was third with 1 I. In the women's division, Breen-Phillips took first with 21 points, nipping second place Lewis by one point. Farley came in third with eight points. -The Observer 
The Non-Varsity Athletic Office announced that the T-shirts for those who participated in the Domer Six Run are not in yet. Please do not call the office, but watch The Observer later in the week for an announcement as to when they will be in. -The Observer 
The Century Club has new log cards available to its members. They can be obtained at the Non-Varsity Athletics Office or at the Rockne pool on the bulletin board. Please turn in your completed cards and pick-up new ones. Also, due to increasing membership, the first newsletter has been delayed so as to include all the new members. Expect the first issue either right before fall break or right after break. -The Observer 
Student basketball tickets are stm available. They can be obtained from the ticket office on the second floor of the ACC. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team won the NAIA State District Championships last weekend. The Belles finished first out of 11 teams with 36 points. Deb Laverie won No. 1 singles, Caroline Zern won No. 2 singles, Kristin Beck won No. 3 singles, Mary Ann Heckman won No. 4 singles, Heather Temoseew won No. 5 singles, and Allison Teller won No. 6 singles. The No. 1 doubles team of Laverie-Beck, the No. 2 doubles team of Heckman-Teller, and the No. 3 doubles team of Zern-Karie Casey also won their respective divisions. -The Observer 
Corporate money provides foundation for auto racing 
By MIKE HARRIS mediately the hold that sponsors 
have on the speed sport. 
The cars are the world's fastest 
Money is supposedly the root of moving billboards, with . a decal of all evil. It is without question the one sort or another covering nearly foundation ofauto racing. every inch of available space. The 
Without a steady flow of cash -driving uniforms are much the same big money from corporate sponsors from the waist up, and the tracks are or wealthy individual -the only filled with billboards, signs, banners, auto racing going on would be on and giant product-shaped balloons. the amateur level. 
Associated Press 
In Europe, the top Formula One Everybody who ever has seen a 
teams have budgets ranging from $2 race car, a driver in uniform, or any 
million to 53 million, while the top of the world's racetracks can see im­
Indy-car and NASCAR Grand Nation­
3 to 4 USC GA TIX needed 
Offering $100 each 
call collect Mike Mulligan 312-751-1111 
al teams in the United States are spending more than $1 million each year to campaign for a full season. 
The money goes for equipment, salaries, travel expenses and, per­haps most important, car develop­ment and testing. 
• • . Fall 
continuedfrom page 12 
middle," Gallo said explaining the 
errors. 
But Gallo stressed that the Notre 
Dame defensive play must improve. 
"We just did not play good 
defense," said Gallo. 
The Irish fielding percentage of 
.940 this fall is equal to that of last 
spring's squad, which went 19-28, in 
part due to the poor defense. 
Nonetheless, other aspects of the 
team have improved. The team bat­
ting average increased dramatically 
from .243 last spring to this fall's 
.275. Granted that ten games is not a 
season, Gallo was pleased with the 
hitting, calling it "very adequate." 
There were also many individual 
bright spots in the Notre Dame bat­
ting order. Catchers Brian Gibbons 
and Mike Doming hit .444 and .375, 
respectively. Infielders Shields, Jack 
Moran, andJim Dee all hit over .350. 
Moran led the team in hits with nine 
and Dee led in home runs with two 
and RBI's with eight. Vuono, despite 
hitting .182, scored a team-high nine 
runs, mainly due to his eight walk~, 
also a team-high. Freshman Mike An­
gelina provided more reason for op­
timism, hitting .364 and driving in 
three runs. 
Newcomers also aided the pitch­
ing corps. Freshman Dan Sacchini 
posted a 2-0 record and a 3.24 E.R.A., 
but he led the staff in walkswith ten. 
Junior Joe Dobosh had some of 
the best statistics on the squad with 
a 2.89 E. R.A., a record of 2-0, and no 
base-on-balls. 
Senior Mark Clementz had a fair 
fall, leading the team in innings 
piched, strikeouts, and saves. 
As a whole, the pitching staff did well. The Irish staff E.R.A. was a decent 3.97, compared to last spring's 4.80. In addition, only 32 free passes were issued by Irish pitchers, while opposing pitching staffs gave up 49 walks. 
Keeping men off the basepaths is important to Gallo. 
"When you walk a man, he usually ends up scoring," says the Notre Dame skipper. "I thought our pitching and our hitting were very adequate," said Gallo, but he later emphasized the importance offield­ing. 
"We'll be fine if we play good, consistent defense," Gallo con­tinued. "When you get good pitch­ing and defense you're going to win some ball games." 
This fall provided Gallo with the 
opportunity to find players who will 
help the Irish win, as he saw many 
different players ir. intra-squad 
games and in fall season play. 
"I would have liked to play more games, to see more, but the weather did not cooperate," said Gallo. 
Five games were rained out during the fall, but nonetheless, Gal­lo said, "We found out exactly who could help us." 
Gallo's new players along with his veterans will start practice again in January for the regular spring season. In the meantime, the squad will lift weights and work on con­ditioning. 
Gallo hopes that this off-season 
work will lead to improved defense 
and, consequently, an improved 
won-loss record. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 19, 1983-page 10 
Duerson the main attraction 
Lions-Bears set for fireworks 
Associated Press 
lAKE FOREST, Ill. -The stage is set for fireworks when the Detroit Lions and Bears meet Oct. 30 in Chicago, and Dave Duerson figures he'll be a main attraction. 
It was Duerson, the rookie from Notre Dame, whom Bear coach Mike Ditka ordered to "Go block the kicker" after the Lions faked a field goal and scored a touchdown with 
I: 18 left in last Sunday's 31-1 7 tri­umph over the Bears. 
Ditka issued the command when he felt the Lions were rubbing it in by faking the field goal instead of taking the almost-certain three points. 
The Lions claim it was all a mistake-that kicker Eddie Murray misunderstood a call for a fake field goal and that holder Eric Hipple was shocked for a moment before run­ning around left end for the eight­yard touchdown. 
As Murray and Hipple were 
continuedfrom page I 2 
ping away from the Irish at this 
point, as the Saints, led by Dawn 
Buchanan, a tall front-row player 
who was very effective all night 
long, hegan to regain some momen­
tum. They won five straight points to 
move back into a I 0-I 0 deadlock. 
Notre Dame once again looked like It might pull away, as co-captain MaryJo Hensler served them to a 12­10 lead. But the Saints once again came back, taking a 13-12 lead, before the Irish tied it at 13. 
At this point, though, Terese Henken, who had served the Irish back into a tie, saw her next serve go just widt·. The service error put the game in the Saints' hands. 
' The Saints did not let the match 
slip away this time as they scored t!1e 
last two points, the last on a tip by walking off the field after the touch­down, they seemed to be snickering, which incensed Ditka. 
When the Lions lined kup for the subsequent kickoff, Ditka told Duer­son, "Go block the kicker." 
After getting his instructions, Duerson returned to Ditka's side and double-checked them. "I was bafiled," he said, "but I didn't argue." 
On Monday, after reviewing the films, Duerson said Murray "put on a Hollywood act" when he collapsed to the ground after being hit on the ensuing kickoff. The Lions said the hit knocked Murray's shoulder out of joint; it was popped back in mo­ments later. 
"I can't believe what he (Murray) 
is saying. There was no way I was 
trying to hurt him," said Duerson. 
He then revealed that when the 
game was over, Detroit's Rick Kane 
"came up to me and said, 'We'll be 
looking for you in two weeks.' I told 
him, 'You've got a date."' 
Most of the furor Monday came 
Buchanan. 
The marathon fifth game was a fit­ting conclusion to a long, hard­fought match that saw both teams go through periods of sloppy play and smooth play. 
Both teams started out sloppily in the first game and exchanged numerous serves. Gradually, the teams worked their way up to a 6-6 tie. Then, St. Francis began execut­ing a little better, while the Irish continued to have some problems, especially on defense. The Saints won nine of the last 12 points, con­sistently finding gaps in the Irish defense with easy tips. 
"The players gave in too easily on the tips," said Vanslager. "You need to give more effort on tips than on hard-driven shots. 
"The problem comes down to footwork. Everybody just . turned from the Lions' den, with owner Wil­laim Clay Ford labeling the Bears, "dirty b-·----s, nasty fellows. I think it was a lousy piece of officiating. It was a malicious, deliberate attempt to injure a player." 
Lions coach Monte Clark said, "The rule states that a kicker must be under control before you can hit him. Eddie had taken two steps after kicking off and was about to take a third when Duerson nailed him." 
Ditka was still seething Monday 
and said during his press con­
ference: "Three points would have 
iced it for them. Murray faked it. I 
don't care what they say, he fake it. 
Period.'' 
As for ordering Duerson to block 
Murray, Ditka said: "What was the 
matter with that? He wears pads. 
That's the way football was played 
from Day One. 
"Duerson hardly touched him," added Ditka. "Murray should have won an Academy Award for acting." 
• • . Feeling 
and watched the balls hit the floor. They knew mentally what to do, but they didn't do it physically." 
The second game was very similar to the first as the Saints took ad­vantage ofsome carelessness on the part of their opponents to take an early lead. However, the Irish fought back and the advantage went back and forth. Leading 8-7, St. Francis took control once again, winning eight of the last 10 points and the game. 
Facing a quick three-game elimination, Notre Dame fought hard in the next two games. Overcoming a large number of service errors and net violations, the Irish showed brief periods of excel­lent play, especially at the net. 
The comeback effort fell one game short, however. 
NHL Standings 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Adams Division Smythe Dvlslon 
w L T GF GA Pis. w L T GF GA Pis Quebec 5 2 1 42 33 11 Edmonton 6 0 0 34 20 12 Boston 4 2 0 28 18 8 Calgary 2 3 1 19 23 5 Buffalo 3 3 1 24 27 7 Vancouver 2 4 0 27 28 4 Hartlord 2 2 1 18 20 5 W1nmpeg 1 3 2 21 24 4 Montreal 2 3 0 20 25 4 Los Angeles 0 4 2 16 26 2 
Patrick Division Norris Division 
N.Y. 
Rangers 6 1 0 31 18 12 St. LOUIS 5 1 0 28 19 10 Philadelphia 5 1 0 31 13 10 Ch1cago 4 2 0 25 25 8 

N.Y. 
Islanders 4 3 0 30 31 8 Toronto 3 2 1 32 28 7 New Jersey 4 0 14 22 2 Minnesota 2 3 1 27 27 5 Pittsburgh 6 0 17 31 2 Detrort 0 3 2 19 29 2 Washington 0 6 0 15 29 0 


Yesterday's Resub Quebec 5, Boston 3 Buffalo 3, Pittsburgh 1 
Calgary 4, N.Y. Islanders 3 
Today• a Games Calgary at N.Y. Rangers Washington at Hartlord Quebec at Toronto New Jersey at Ch1cago St. Louis at Detroit Montreal al Winmpeg 
Edmonton at Vancouver 

montgomery® 
will conduct Interviews on th1s campus THURSDAY, NOV. 10 & FRIDAY, NOV. 11 Career positions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed with degree candidates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your campus, contact your placement office. 
montgomery(o'l 
ELEVATORS,ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Montgomery Elevator Company, Moline, IllinOIS 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co .. L1mited, Toronto, Ontario M983S5 Offices in princ1pal cities of North America 
Wondering where to go for dinner Saturday October22? 
Come to Ramada's 
"After Game Buffet" 
in our beautiful Vineyard room. 
There will be a delicious buffet starting at 6:30 p.m. And Live Entertainment with the popular "Britches" Band. 
From 7 ·11 p.m. Adults $9.95 Children $4.95 (tax included) Buy your tickets in advance at the catering office 
272·5220 
52890 U.S. 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 CHECK COUPON SHEET INSERTED IN SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE 
Lets talk 
about the summer of'84 
If you are thinking that far ahead, we another spent the summer with one of may have a job for you. our Chemical Divisions as a Process Engineer.
W.R. Grace & Co. is looking for outstanding undergraduates to join us in As your placement officer will tell you, a summer intern program between our global interests in chemicals, iunior and senior years. natural resources and consumer 
products offer a rare diversity ofWe are looking for especially talented: 
opportunity.ACCOUNTING AND 
We will be on your campus soon. If this
ENGINEERING MAJORS 
idea challenges you-and you enjoy a Students with outstanding 
challenge-take some time now to academic records and with a 
outline your qualifications in a demonstrated interest in outside 
thoughtful letter to: activities ... Men and women with 
Manager of College Relations a genuine interest in business and W.R. Grace &Co. with that special mix of 
Grace Plaza imagination, ability and foresight 1114 Avenue of the Americas necessary for success ... New York, New York 10036 
Individuals of inordinate curiosity, and the willingness to learn in an unstructured environment. One step ahead of a 
changing world. 
In a recent summer, one of our recruits spent her two months in Belgium doing marketing research. One came to 
(.GRACE
New York for a special project in our r Corporate Finance Department and chemicals • natural resources • consumer products 

'JI['~~C3L~--------------------------------------~--e_d_n_esda~y-,O--ct_o_b_e_r_1_9_,1_9_8_3
__ ___P_a_g_e_l__l 

Bloom County 

Fate 
DAD. r WONT Ellr our WITI/ VOU AND THE: FAMIL'I, I J/ASf WONT 
\ 

Mellish 
HOIJ DOES Nlm tOtEfiAI'J SOu tiD? 
LET ME SEE THAT.
\ 
I~STA MA'j'j,Vf, 
'1HRf£-17AY MUSIC fE.STIVAl.. . FORM A COIW>\lm£ ANO M IT 
1VC£rHER. Mf£77N6 

81Af WHY NQIT; r7 
'CAU S£ IrS TH£ • HUDDLE: .. 
\ 

5AY5 HER 1Ntf~EIT5 5H£ SOUilPl ARE S~iiNG, I>AAM/\, P£RffO Fo~ ANb ANtiEN T HEe~E;J. 8R. JAt'lfl. 

HEllO,t•tiSTy1TIIIS IS 8l.l~cAs AT toL~MaA HAlL. IIE'U IIAVI/I'G AN SH TillS F~IMY AND I WAS CALLING To 
Berke Breathed 
I'U. ARAAI'U 
Wf.U-. 1Ht PtJ~ ANYBOflY KNOW ANii' COOKIE-S. 171\1/117 BOWIE.'! 
I

Photius 

You KNOW You (t 
81?£1/KING YOU/( I'IOrHE'('S H£11/fr; 
DON 'r Yll 7 
Dave & Dave 
J'fNN~, GET OVER HERE QUit~ ... IJ£ 1V£. GOT ANOTHER 1r~VERT 
ON THE liME . 

The Daily Crossword 
10/19/83 
ACROSS 35 Periods 1 Class of time 6 Door 36 Opera by 
fastener Gounod 10 Authentic 38 Gauzy 14 Lend-material 
(listen) 39 Dress 15 Above stone 16 Latin being 40 Gandhi's 17 Bart or land · 
Brenda 41 Crew 18 Jade members 19 Conduit 42 "-do any­20 Alveolus thing..." 22 Mark down 44 Begin 24 Particle 45 Matador's 26 Vendetta foe 27 Gets off at 46 Lunatic 
the airport 48 Fellowman 31 Had a 50 Certain craving for tide 
Tuesday's Solution 

10/19/83 
Campus 
•12:15 
p.m.-Workshop, "An Analysis ofthe Tax Treatment of the Households in an Equivalence Scales Framework," Ms. Carol Wambeke, Library Lounge 

•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Data Com­munications and Networks, 115 Computing Cen­ter 

•4:20 
p.m. -· Physics Colloquium, "Metalic Interfaces and Metal Property Modifications," Dr. Merwyn B. Brodsky, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. Chemistry Lecture, "Photochemistry of d3 and d6 complexes," Prof. Arthur W. Adamson, 123NSH 

•6:15 
p.m. -Circle K Club Meeting, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Kawanis 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Young Frankenstein," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ombudsman Meeting, 2-D LaFortune 

•8 
p.m. -University Artists Series, Johannes Brahms, Choral and Organ Music, Sacred Heart Church 


TV Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
8p.m. 8:30p.m. 
u9p.m. tO p.m. !0:30p.m. 11:30p.m. 
Far Side , 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Joker's Wild 34 Straight Talk 16 Real People 22 Whiz Kids 28 Fall Guy 34 Hitler's Enenmy 16 Facts of Life 22 Wednesday Night Movie 28 Dynasty 16 Family Ties 16 TBA 28 Hotel 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Magnum PI/ CBS Late Movie 28 Thicke of the Night 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
52 Handout 53 Directing principle 
57 Scandina­vian 61 King of Norway 
62 Egyptian nature goddess 
64 Net 65 Ballet 
position 66 Fjord city 67 Pittsburgh 
commodity 68 To-his own 69 Dickens character 70 Sing, Swiss style 
DOWN Spanish house 
2 Against 3 Cauterize 4 Ankle bones 5 Corrigenda 6 Fiery 7 Gluttonous 8 Fine line 
of a letter 9 The act of 
giving 10 Make over 11 Biblical 
twin 
12 "It's-to tell a lie" 13 Pre-Easter··" period 21 The act of 
taking 23 Signal 25 Intended 27 Jeans 
material 28 Heath 29 Infidel 30 African 
region 
32 Discharge from the military, for short 
33 January: Sp. 34 Contributor 37 Fathered 43 Biblical 
land 45 Uponthat 47 Roman 
bronze 49 Sleek 51 Antiquated 53 English 
poet 54-podrida 55 Secular 56 Little 
brook 58 Perished 59 Arrow 
poison 60 Compartment 63 The sun 

The Notre Dame volleyball team is still trying to night they lost again, this time to St. Francis-Joliet. figure out what has gone wrong this season. Last See Mike Sullivan's story below for the details. 
Volleyball team feels terrible as they lose five-game heartbreaker 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
Have you ever waited in the dining hall lines for ages before final­ly reaching the card-check desk ­and found that you forgot your 10 card? 
You kn•>w that terrible feeling of having inched your way up the line for naught, especially if the entree is Russian Vegetable Pie. 
Well, the Notre Dame volleyball certainly got that feeling last night as it climbed out ofdanger only to slip up at the end and lose a heartbreak· ing match to St. Francis-Joliet in five long games, I S-9, I S-9, 7·1 S, I 1 · 1S, and 1S-1 3, in the ACC Pit. 
The loss to tht~ Saints just put an· other wound in what is turning out to IJe a very disappointing season for Sandy Vanslager's squad. 
The match came down to the fifth and final game, but, for a while, it looked like it would not last past three games as the Irish dropped the first two by identical scores. However, they did not lay down and die, and, despite numerous service errors and a little inconsistent play, managed to fight back into the match, coming from behind late in 
Paxson to sign with Spurs 
Reports have indicated that former Notre Dame guard John Paxson will sign a pro contract 
today  with  the  San  Antonio  
Spurs.  
Paxson,  who  has  been  in­ 

volved in a contract struggle with the Spurs since the NBA draft last Junt·, told WNDU-TV yesterday that the only problem left to work out wa~ getting from his home in Kt·ttering, Ohio, to San Antonio for a press conference today at which the signing will be an­nounced. 
It is thought that Paxson, the Spurs' first-round draft choice, will report to the Spurs' training camp immediately. The Spurs have been in camp since Sep­tembn 29. 
the fourth game to even the score at two games apiece. 
The mistakes of earlier in the match proved to be too much to overcome, however, as the Irish played well enough to win two of the last three games, but needed to win all three because ofits failure in the first two. 
'"We just let too many shots hit the floor early in the match," said a dejected Vanslager, "and we really didn't start passing well and picking up their tips until the fourtt. or fifth game." 
Despite the problems early, though, Notre Dame did have the chance to win the match in the last game. It had the momentum after winning the previous two games. And it appeared early on in the last game that Notre Dame's momentum would gain it the victory. 
After losing the coin flip to see which team would serve in the tiebreaker, the Irish capitalized on a service error and net violation by the Saints, and the outstanding play of sophomore Tracy Bennington at the net, moving out to a 2-1 lead. However, a service error and net violation by Notre Dame allowed St. Francis to regain the lead, 4-3. 
Bennington then began her service and continued to play a major role in the game, serving five consecutive points and putting the Irish on top, 8-4. The score in­creased to 9-4, and then 10-5, as Notre Dame appeared ready to take total control. 
However, things JUSt started slip-
see FEELING, page 10 
Baseball team finishes fall season with split 
By SEAN CALLAHAN 
Sports Writer 
Baseball, like in the big leagues, is over at Notre Dame for the present. A twinbill scheduled for last Sunday with Valparaiso was rained out. On Saturday, the Irish played what became their final two games of the 
fall season, splitting a doubleheader with Bethel College to end their fall term with a 6-4 record. 
In the first game with Bethel, which the Irish won 4-1, Steve Powell, John Gleeson, and Tom Col­lins combined to toss a four-hitter. Powell received credit for the vic­tory, despite yielding the Irish pitch­ing stall's only three walks of the game. Another runner reached base on senior Dan Harrington's error, 
which resulted in an unearned run. 
Bethel left six other runners on base. 
On the other hand, Notre Dame took advantage of five hits, two walks, and three Bethel errors to score four runs, two of which were unearned. The Irish offense was aided by Brian Gibbons' two-run double. 
In the second game the Irish did not use their base runners as ef­fectively as they did in the opener, as they lost, 7-4. Nine men were left on bao;e, despite a combination ofeight hits, five walks, and two fielding miscues by BetheL 
"We did not get timely hitting, that's for sure," said Coach Larry Gal­lo. "The so-called veterans didn't come through when they had the opportunity." 
A three-hit day for infielder Tom Shields, two RBI's by infielder Rich Vanthornout, and first baseman Carl Vuono's double and sacrifice fly were wasted in the loss. 
The Irish used some younger pitchers in the game, pitching fresh­men Bob Lee and Kevin Rudge, sophomores Mark Watzke and Jon Johannson, and jason Schomer, a junior who pitched only one inning last spring. 
Despite the relative inexperience of these hurlers, no walks were issued and only two of Bethel's seven runs were earned. 
"We threw strikes, didn't walk many, and didn't get hit too hard," commented Gallo. "That's what we've been doing all fall." 
The defense, however, and espe­cially in the second Bethel game, was disappointing. The first five Bet­hel runs in that second game were the result offour Notre Dame errors. 
"We had a lot of different com­binations at shortstop and second base, and different players up the 
see FALL, page 9 
Wednesday, October 19, 1983 ·-page 12 
Irish to renew memorable rivalry 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 

Hello again, everybody! 
By Saturday afternoon, midterms will be over, Captain Crunch will have sailed away in search of more golden nuggets, and everybody will be ready for THE GAME of every sea<;<>n -Notre Dame vs. Southern Cal. Personally, this great rivalry brings back many memories -Joe Theismann putting on an incredible pa~sing display in the Coliseum, Eric Penick, Anthony Davis, green jerseys running out of a Trojan Horse, Traveler, questionable calls in the final minutes, and much more. Never mind that there won't he a national championship at stake when these two teams clao;h at the stadium on Saturday -both squads will be fired up for the SSth renewal ofthe Trojan Wars. 
1982 and the Phantom Touchdown .. .If you have forgotten last year's USC game (and I guarantee you Gerry Faust and the fight­ing Irish have not), let me refresh your memory. Blair Kiel returned to the lineup from a shoulder ailment to lead the Irish in one oftheir best efforts ofthe season. Notre Dame led the Trojans, 13-10, as lJSC took the ball on their own 49 with 1 :50 remaining. Quarterback 
Scott Tinsley drove the Trojans down to the Irish one-yard line with 48 seconds left on the Coliseum clock. Tinsley handed offto Michael Harper, who vaulted over the goal line, but Irish end Kevin Griffith came up with the football on the two-yard line. Nevertheless, referee Charles Moffett ruled Harper had the ball when he crossed the goal line (despite what photographic evidence would show later) and 
gave the Trojans a controversial 17-13 victory. 
Mission Impossible: Finding a Ticket ...As you proba~~ know by now, getting a ticket for this game is about as easy as getting a seven on a "Double Emil." Thanks to Southern Cal's probation, 1 (cheaters never prosper), there will be no live telecast ofSaturday's t game. Ifyou don't have a ticket, the only way you can see the game live will be on closed-circuit television in the ACC for five dollars. If you want a stadium ticket, be prepared to pay th_e piper. Scalpers 
1
have been deflating wallets for as much as S 1 SO a ucket. r 
Trojan Troubles ...First-year USC coach Ted Tollner can sym-\ 
pathize with the problems Gerry Faust had in his first two years at ! 
Notre Dame. With a record of 2-3-1, Trojan faithful are upset to say 
the least. According to Sports Illustrated, one Los Angeles Times 
reader a<;ked, "When did USC de-emphasize football? The Trojans 
are playing like a bunch ofwalk-ons." 
Be that as it may, those "walk-ons" have plenty ofhorses to send at the Irish. While lJSC lacks an OJ. Simpson or Charles White at tail­back, Fred Crutcher, Michael Harper, and Todd Spencer have compiled nearly 800 yards while splitting time at the position this . season. Quarterback Sean (I like my steak) Salisbury hao; been a 1 glimmering bright spot for the Trojans, throwing for over 1100 I yards in six games. He'll be looking for a variety oftargets on Satur­day as Southern Cal has four receivers with more than ten recep-}
tio~s. _.,; 
On defense, the Trojans sport a pair ofall-Americans at linebacker injack Del Rio and Keith Browner(younger brotherofformer Notre Dame star Ross Browner). USC's defense has shown a susceptibility to the pass this year, as they displayed when they allowed 397 pas­sing yards in last week's 34-14 loss to Arizona State. The Trojans have been giving up lots ofpoints this year, but they can put them on the board quickly, too. Look for lots ofbig plays in this game. 
Irish Update .. .This will be the biggest Saturday for the Irish 
since the Miami game. It doesn't take a genius to realize the Irish 
want to keep the ball in the hands of Allen Pinkett. The sophomore 
tailback is averaging 109 yards rushing per game, making him the 
11th best rusher in the nation. Steve Beuerlein will face his most 
important test ofthe season (with the possible exception ofhis Earth 
Science midterm) on Saturday. A shoulder ailment that bothered 
Beuerlcin last week is behind him, and he will be ready to go against 
his fellow Californians. 
The defense will have its hands full with the huge Trojan line and a multi-faceted Southern Cal attack. While the defense played its best game of the year against Army last week, one must realize that the Cadets hardly possess the firepower ofUSC. This is the biggest game ofthe year for the Trojans, soJimjohnson's defensive unit had better be ready for anything. 
Fair Catches ...Former Irish Items columnist Bill Marquard points out that the first point scored by the Irish on Saturday will be their 1OOOth against USC. For the record, the Trojans have scored 8S9 points against the Irish ...Hope this isn't a bad omen, but the last time Southern Cal came to Notre Dame with a losing record wao; in 1971, and the Trojans picked up a 28-14 victory at the expense of the ·Irish ...Notre Dame is as healthy a-; they have been all season, with Stacey Toran the only starter listed as questionable for Satur­day. 
Pickofthe Week ...This week's pick gives you four choices: car, train, bus, or plane. In other words, my pick this week is to get away from campus and enjoy your fall break. However, please be careful out on the highways, because I don't want to lose any friends over break due to a car accident. Take your time and remember this safe driving tip: Drive like a musician -C-sharp or B-flat1 

