• • • JPW-page3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 10i the independent ~tlllknt nn\·~paper ser\ing notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21! 1983 

In India 
Hindu tribesmen butcher villagers 
NEW DELHI, India (AP)-Hindu wounds," Gupta wrote in a dispatch widespread movement among As­tribesmen wielding hatchets, spears, from the main Assam city ofGauhati. sam's predominant Hindu popula­machetes and old firearms "There are women and children tion to disenfranchise and expel 
butchered between 600 and 1,000 with disfigured faces ... children more than 1 million Moslem settlers Moslem villagers for defying an elec· hobbling about with gaping wounds who have emigrated since 1961 tion boycott in violence-torn Assam in their stomachs. Paddy t1elds be­from Bangladesh, formerly East state, witnesses reported yesterday. tween Nelli and the affected villages Pakistan. 
The latest accounts reaching New are strewn with thirsty and ex­
Yesterday's accounts from the Delhi from the remote northeastern hausted wounded, their wounds area 450 miles north ofCalcutta said state said the tribesmen rampaged smeared with mud." 
the Hindu tribespeople were angrythrough l 7 villages in the Nelli dis­About 6,000 survivors of the 
that the Moslem villagers had det1ed trict ofcentral Assam on Friday, stab­village attacks, many in a state of 
a boycott ofthe elections. bing, shooting and mutilating shock, crammed into three relief 
"We will kill all these foreignershelpless victims, identified as set· camps in the area, the United News -they have made us foreigners intiers from neighboring Bangladesh. of India said. It quoted one of its 
our own country" news reports
Estimates of the killing varied reporters as saying relief crews from the area quoted the attackers as
widely. The government has banned heaped 67 corpses, mostly women 
shouting.
foreign journalists from the area, and and children, in a single pile and dug communications with Assam are mass graves. 
The government deployed spotty because saboteurs have The government deployed sol­75,000 paramilitary police in Assam in an attempt to enforce order
wrecked telephone lines and diers in the area yesterday to bolster during a three-stage election that
bombed roads, bridges and railways. police forces attempting to stop the had been scheduled to end yester­violence. Prime Minister Indira day. Because of the widespreadThe death toll from I8 days of Gandhi also announced she would violence, however, voting in I 1 dis­
political and ethnic . violence tour the state today. The prime min­tricts was postponed until today. 
sparked by the elections had been ister's aides said reporters would not 
placed by Indian news agencies at be permitted to accompany Mrs. The election is for I26 state legis­more than 430 before the carnage in Gandhi. lators and 13 Parliament the Nelli district. Official reports Most of the violence stems from a representatives. listed 40 more election-related deaths yesterday in Assam, outside ofthe Nelli district, and said three of 
Mondale to announce
the victims were rioters shot by policemen. Shekhar Gupta, a reporter for the Indian Express news service, said 
candidacy today 
the Nelli victims, "mostly women 
and children, were hacked to ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) -Former Mondale worked hard on behalfof death." He said "frenzied tribal Vice President Walter F. Mondale Democratic candidates during the hordes" were responsible. plans a speech to the state House of 1982 off-year elections, allowing 
"There are few without stab Representatives today, when he is him to collect a t1stful of IOUs from expected to formally announce his politicians expected to return the I984 presidential candidacy. favor. 
Mondale, 55, has been regarded as Other Democrats, however, are the front-runner in the Democratic organizing quickly. Held since Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­
Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado, the Mass., withdrew from the race late 
political organizer of Georgelast year. 
MCI comes to Saint Mary's 
McGovern's I972 presidential cam­By MARY ANN POTTER national microwave network. Com­added. Mondale is seen as the best paign, announced his candidacy for StaffReporter puterized routing minimizes the use One disadvantage of the MCI sys­known, best organized and best the nomination Thursday. of the traditional high cost long dis­tem is that it only services certain financed ofthe party's candidates. 
Alan Cranston of California,
With last summer's installation of tance network. He was elected vice president on
cities. "I would like to have it, but it 
Democratic whip in the U.S. Senate,push-button telephones, Saint The "already low" daytime rates doesn't service my hometown," said Jimmy Carter's ticket in 1976 after was the first Democrat to announce
Mary's students have the oppor· go down at 5:00p.m. on weekdays. Sophomore Michele Melnik. failing to win the presidential his candidacy.
tunity to receive MCI long distance MCI rates are lowest II p.m.-8 a.m. Many Saint Mary's students don't nomination himself. telephone service. weekdays, all day Saturday and Sun­realize MCI service is available. He began preparing for the I984 Former Florida Gov. Reuben As­
A push-button telephone is re· day until 5 p.m. "Now that I know about it, I presidential contest days after kew is expected to announce this quired to punch in a MCI personal With residential fulJ time service, would consider getting it because I voters turned him and Carter out of week, and Sen. John Glenn ofOhio is code number. Notre Dame students, a SIO subscription fee plus the cost live a long distance away," said Soph­the White House in favor of expected to formally enter the race 
with standard dial phones, do not ofcalls is billed to the customer each omore Eileen Murphy. Republican Ronald Reagan in I980. soon. meet this requirement. month. This arrangement provides Access to the MCI network in­reduced rate telephone calling day volves first punching in a South or night. 
Reads "Baby"
Bend computer access number. Af­Residential super saver service ter the MCI computer tone is heard, also is available to custome.rs who a personal code number is pressed, wish to place reduced rate calls only 
Sontag opens Literary Festival 
then the number to be called. 4 p.m.-10 a.m. A customer would By KELLY RYAN Festival" because the word soph­and philosophy from Harvard in 
For MCI service, a student may pay a S5 monthly subscription, plus 
News Staff omore usually does not have in­I957. She has been an instructor call the South Bend MCI Telecom· the cost ofcalls. 
tellectual connotations. and lecturer of English and munications sales number. The stu­When the new telephone system Author and t1Jm-maker Susan Sontag began her college philosophy at various univer­dent will be sent a personal code was installed last summer, "We (the 
Sontag read "Baby," an original sities such as Columbia and thenumber within seven to ten working administration) were considering 
composition about "monster University ofConnecticut. days and may begin using MCI using MCI ourselves," saidJason Lin­
parents'; at last night's opening of Sontag has written several es­services immediately. dower, Saint Mary's business 
the Sophomore Literary Festival. says, criticisms, and screenplays.
"Fifteen to 50 percent over what a manager and controller. However, 
The story, written in the first She has been translated into I 7 customer would normally pay" can "It was less expensive for us to use 
person plural, dealt with parents languages and has received be saved, according to the MCI Cus­the Watts Line," he said. 
visit to a psychiatrist. The story, numerous awards, including two tomer Service Department. The new telephones were in­
concerning lines of communica­Rockefeller Foundation fellow­Long distance calls placed stalled for two reasons, according to 
tion between parents and their ships and two Guggenheimthrough MCI are routed through a Lindower. The t1rst was 40 years 'of 
children, received enthusiastic Memorial Foundation fellow­deteriorating teleph_one service. 
applause. Sontag said she wrote it ships. In I978, she was a winner The second was the escalating cost 
in the first person plural because in the National Book Critics in Bell equipment. 
she believed it was the most ef­Circle. "In the past three years Bell rates 
fective way to present both The Festival will continue have increased 20 perc..:nt," Lin· 
parents as one. through Saturday. Novelist Ed­dower said. "In the long run. it (the 
"Baby" was Sontag's only ward Abbey will replace Mary Saint Mary's telephone systern) will 
reading. Robison, who canceled for per­save mon..:y. It fixes for a period of 
Sontag was ..:nthusiastic about sonal reasons, at tonight's tim..: a portion of the tekphone 
attending the Festival. She was reading. All readings are cost." Lindower explained. 
amused. however. that it was scheduled to begin at 7:30 the "In the long run MCI will upset 
called the "Sophomore Literary Library Auditorium. the economics of the svstem," l!e 



-~· ~----~ 
ewsBrie/§ 
lh The ( )!Jser!'er anu /be Associated Press 
Frederick Dickinson of Lehanon. Indiana. is the fifth Notre Dame student in recent years to win the Japanese Government ( Momhusho) Award. The 19H:3 competition was open to students of]apanese language in all American universities and was awarded after the successful completion of a three-hour examina­tion. Dickinson's selection entitles him ro free tuition and fees in a Japanese university to he designated by the Ministry of Education,. transportation fees, and a monthly allowance of 166,01Hi yen or about S690. The scholarship lasts from I H to 24 months. Notre Dame's last recipient. in 1979, Kenneth Laux, was admitted to Tokyo University and recein:d a master's degree in science last }Tar. Dick­inson majored in government and international studies at Notre Dame and completed his undergraduate studies in December. ­
The Ohsen.,er 
Raimondo Pannikar' a Catholic priest, Hindu mys­tic, and prolific author, will make two appearances at Notre Dame today. The first is a seminar on "Cross-Cultural Economics: Eth­nocentrism in Development Studies" at O'Shaughnessy Hall, Room 342 at 12: I 5 and the second, a public lecture on "Christianity: Chal­lenges from Asia," at 122 Hayes-Healy at H p.m. Pannikar is one ofthe world's leading experts on cross-cultural religion, philosophy, economic and political systems. He has taught at Harvard, Mysore and Benares (India), and is presently at the University of California. He was born in Barcelona, Spain, and holds doctorates in science, philosophy, and theology. -The Observer 
Graduate housing applications are now available in the Office of Student Residences, :31 5 Administration Building. A graduate housing lottery for available spaces will be held Fri., May 6. All appplications received before May 6 will be eligible. -The Observer 
Memorial services will be conducted tomorrow for Timothy). Murphy Jr., a former state public works commissioner and well-known Notre Dame football player, who died last week. He was 82. Murphy was appointed public works commissioner in 1955 by Gov. Abraham Ribicoff, a post he held until his retirement in 
1967. Before joining that department, he served as director of the Connecticut Federal Housing Administration. The Bridgeport native was best-known in the early 1920s as a star end on the University of Notre Dame football team. He was one of the so-called "Seven Mules," who blocked for Notre Dame's popular "Four Horsemen" backfield. After college, Murphy coached the Freeport (Long Island) Field Club, a pro football team. From 1934-:3 7 he coached the Hartford Rangers, a semi-pro team. Murphy died of heart failure at his daughter's home in Tempe, Ariz. on last Thursday. He is survived by two daughters, several grandchildren and great-grandchildren. A funeral mass will be held tomorrow morning at St. Brigid Church in West Hartford. -AP 
The anti-recession drivepicks up momentum this week in the Democratic-controlled House, where committees begin writing bills to provide humanitarian relief, public works jobs and extra unemployment benefits. In other recession-related busi­ness, the House Banking Committee will hear two days oftestimony about the growing number ofhome and farm mortgage foreclosures. The Reagan administration, succumbing to pressure from both parties in Congress, has proposed a S4.:3 billion "bipartisan" measure including S4 billion for public works jobs and $:300 million for food and shelter for the needy. House Appropriations Committee chair­man Jamie Whitten, whose committee will draft the legislation, is certain to leave his imprint by adding money for rural programs that he favors and social programs favored by House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass., and other party leaders. But Whitten, D-Miss., and his committee also are expected to avert a confrontation with the White House by producing a bill costing less than !5 billion. So 
far  the  spirit  of bipartisanship  has  not  extended  beyond  this  
proposal,  though,  as  Democrats  move  to  assert  their  newly  
strengthened majority in the House.  -AP  

A new born infantfound in an alley beneath a dis­carded Halloween decoration was listed in critical condition yester­day, but hospital officials say she's improving. Two Indianapolis children found infant Jane Doe behind their home on the west side Saturday morning. Despite the 40-degree weather, she was naked, and her umbilical cord still was attached to the placenta, said author­ities, who believe the child was t(mnd about two hours after she was abandoned. The infant was rushed to Wishard Memorial Hospital, then transferred· to Riley Hospital for Children, part of the Indiana University Hospitals complex here. "The child is doing better," Roger Hunt, director of hospitals for IU, said yesterday. "She still is listed in critical condition, but her condition is stabilizing. The child is on a ventilator to assist her breathing but is looking generally bet­ter." Hunt said the infant's size, 7 pounds and 6 ounces, may be a positive factor in her recovery, but "it's to early to tell yet how severe the problems are. We need to see how she does over the next few days." An Indianapolis Police Department spokesman said yes­terday that investigators have no leads about the mother's identity, but the investigation will continue. -AP 
Increasing cloudiness today,not quite so warm, with a high in the low to mid 50s. Light and variable wind. Mostly cloudy tonight, low in the upper 30s. Cloudy tomorrow with a chance oflight rains. High in the mid to upper 40s. -Tbe Observer 
Monday, February 21, 1983-page 2 
A second-best freeze? 
The intentions of campus woups hacking a bilateral 
fret·ze rt·solution may he good, hut are they the right 
intentions' 
The resolutiof) reads "to improve national and inter­national security, should the llnited Statt·s and the Soviet Union adopt an immediate, bilateral, mutually verifiable frt-eze on all further testing, production and deployment of nuclear weapon< and of missiles anti new aircraft designed primarily to deliver nuclear weapons"" Students will vote on the question March 1. 
Whv the stldden push for a bilateral freeze resolu­tion? Well, there is the upcoming Notre Dame con­terence, "Justice in a Nuclear l'uture?," schc luled ti>r March 25-26. It would be convenient to h;· · campus approval of a bilateral freeze on the boob lldi>re the conference. 
Also, in tht· aftermath ofthe unilateral freeze vote, are 
Notre Dame ~tudents ".settling" for a bilateral freeze? Is 
approval ofa bilateral freeze better than nothing? These 
are the wrong reasons for 
mounting a campaign; un­
fortunately, they appear to 
be some of the motives b.e­hind the freeze campaign. 
The good timing or the face-saving value of a bilateral freeze resolution 

should be the last reasons for its support. Approval ofa bilateral nuclear freeze 
UNJ LATE AL should be considered on its own merits, and its merits are many. 

fREEZE 
With a freeze, both the 
United States and the Soviet Union could seriously negotiate arms reductions. Redu t ctions talks will never be fruitful if the super­powers continue to operate on the prevalent logic of "building up to scale down," creating bargaining chips to be traded at Geneva. That sort ofthing could go on indefinitely. The arms buildup has to come to a halt on both sides if substantial reduc­
tions are to be negotiated. 
The bilateral element makes the freeze more practi­cal. There is some risk in one party agreeing to a freeze if there is no assurance that the other party will follow suit. The knowledge that both the U.S. and the Soviets have agreed to an arms freeze will decrease the fear and paranoia that has fueled the arms race since its begin­
ning.  
In  addition  to  the  strategic  points,  there  are  
economic benefits to a freeze.  
A healthy  chunk  of America's  federal  budget  is  

devoted to defense. Afreeze would free up some of this money, reducing the federal deficit. Or the funds could be used to revitalize American industries, making them more competitive with their 
The Observer 
Design EditorJ.P. Keyes· Amateur Angler Design Assistant ....................... Pete White l.a)•out Staff........................................ llamid 1)•pesetters .... .. ........ Re~~gic. IIW!l News Hdilor... . ............. Vic Cop)' Editor..... Kathy 
Features J.uyout.. . ............ Sarah t:dilorials J.avou/. .P;aul Sports CofJJ' Editor... Ed the K ND Dtl)' Editor.... . ............. Mike .4d Design... . .. .. ........................ Billy Phologra{Jb£•r .. . . . . ................ Diana Guest.·lppeartlnces... !-1. <:htu.:kc:r .\lagana. \\'SNI>-F~1·~ lit-ad transmlttt:r (no tunc:~), 
nave: and the Rahhit 
( io oul and ~t·t ahc:ad 
Some: arc: born ~reat, some achit>vc gn·at­
nc:~~. 
and ~orne have grl'atness thrust upon 
them. Some: don't. 
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 tS publtshed Monday through Frtday and on home football Saturdays except durtng exam and vacatton pertods The Observer tS publtshed by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Col· lege Subscrtpttons may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrlltng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lndtana 46556 
The Observer ts a member of The Associated Press All reproductton rtghts are reserved 
Second class postage patd at Noire Dame. lndtana 46556 
Fine Italian Food and Pizza 
Features its new weekly specials designed specifically with the students and faculty of Notre Dame in mind!! 
Tuesday: Imported Beer· $1.00 
(Plus 15 percent discount on food) Wednesday: Complimentary Wine (Plus 15 percent discount on food) 
Thursday: 2 for 1 Drinks (Plus 15 percent discount on food) 
With any purchase of a pizza or dinner 
Restaurant very close to Notre Dame Rt. 23 and Edison (Near Turtle Creek Apts.) Bring Roommates, Friends and Family. (Must show valid N.D. Identification) 
Tim Vercellotti 
News Editor 
Q
------------,ill'~\ ­
Inside Monday _.._.~ --... 
IC>reign counterparts. while sending unemployed Americans back to work. 
Not only more: money, but more brainpower would he released as a result ofa freeze. Men and women now doing researcb on defense projects could use their gifts to more productive ends, not only in industry, hut in agriculture and medicine as well. 
Or the United States could use these resources to in­crease its ti>reign aid. Resources now devoted to the arms race would 
A lot of good could be accomplished with the resources freed as a result ofa freeze. And if that freeze is bilateral, it is not only less risky, but it is also more politically practical. It will be a long time before the American people will support a unilateral freeze. 
There are a number of good reasons for voting in favor of a bilateral freeze. The resolution should be ap­proved for these reasons, and not because it is con­venient to have such a vote on the books at the moment, or because approval of a bilateral freeze is better than nothing. This resolution is not a second-best freeze. 
Observer note_______, 
The Observer is always looking for new people. We need people in layout, production, news, sports, etc. Ifyou would like to get involved, call 239-5303 or sop up and alko one ofus here. We're located on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
PARISI'S 
benefit the Third World. The Report of the Independent Commission on Interna­tional Development Issues, 
chaired by former West Ger­man Chancellor Willy Brandt, reports that: 
•For 
the cost of one Tri­dent submarine 16 million children in developing countries could be schooled for one year; 

• 
For the cost ofa modern tank (about 51 million), 1,000 classrooms could be built for over 30,000 children; 

• 
For the price of one jet fighter ( 520 million), 40,000 village pharmacies could be created. 



The Observer Monday, February 21, 1983 -page 3 

Pbotos hJ• Rachel Blount and Diana Butler 
r----------------,I 
at ffiacri's Deli · I
I 75 cent Heine ken Night I 
I Tues. Feb 22 6 pm-close I
I*If you don't·like Heineken, Don't come. I 
I (located behind Jeremiah Sweeney's) ..II 

Your resume should also be special. A professionally typeset resume is important because it shows you in your best light. We are typesetting professionals and can help you look your best. 
Bnng this ad w1th you for 10% OFF on the 
typesetting of your resume. Offer expires 
May 31, 1983 Offer good· only for 
typesettmg. 
247 Dixieway North South Bend, IN 46637 
219-277-3355 
14" 
CHEESE PIZZA With addl. ingred. and liter of RCCOLA 
$5.67 
Expires 2/28/83 
14" 
CHEESE PIZZA 
$4.71 
Extra ingredients 
$.62 
Expires 2/28/83 


Ayoung boy wears a mask symbolizing alleged repression in the Indian state ofAssam as hejoins 150protestors staging a sit-sown protest nearthe Indian Parliament in New Delhi. Hindu tribesmen massacred between 600 and 1,000 Moslem villagers yesterday. See page 1for accompanying story. ( APPhoto) 
THE ARMY ROTC 2-YEAR 
PROGRAM. UP TO $1.000 AYEAR 
PWS ACOMMISSION. 

If you passed up Army But, more important, ROTC during your first two you'll be on your way to earn­years ofcollege, you can ing a commission in today's enroll in our 2-year pro­Army-which includes the gram before you start your Army Reserve and Army last two. Na tiona! Guard-while you're 
Your training will start earning a college degree. the summer after your 
ARMY ROTC.
sophomore year at a six-week 
BEALLYOU CAN BE.
Army ROTC Basic Camp. It'll pay off, too. You'll 
CALL: 
earn over $400 for attend­ing Basic Camp and up to CAPTAiN CRJ·:<;oRY A. CJ\:\N,\TA S 1 .1.'(\1 a vear tor \"t)Uf last m,> vc·ar~ ofcullege I>Jj(l~:!·: :,3Y-h'264/b2b.'J 
WASIIIN<;ToN ( AP) -India ha~ went into largescale opcration .last programs, ~uch a~ Japan and mem· begun producing and stockpiling November. Previously the plant had bers of the European Economic weapons grade plutonium at a been u~nl to rcproccss only small Community. :\lanv devC:Ioping na· nuclear reprocessing plant, accord­amounts offuel, the newspaper said. lions reject this position as being ing to published reports. A state Department oftkial said rdegated to second-class industrial 
The Washington Post, quoting the United States had exprcsscd con­status. unidentified U.S. and international cern on numerous occasion~ about sources, reported yesterday that In­the spread of nuclear reprocessing dia is stockpiling separated facilities, especially in areas of 
Program
plutonium at a rate that would potential instability such as south· enable it to build about 20 atomic ern Asia, Tbe Neu• York Times 
to reduce 
bombs a year if it pursues a nuclear reported in today's editions. 
•
weapons program. "We have had a long and un­The plutonium is separated from pleasant history with India on this 
cr1me 
spent fuel used by atomic power subject," the unidentified official 
By BETH WALSH 
plants at the Tarapur reprocessing told the Times. 
News Staff 
facility ncar Bombay, the Post said. The U.S. position is that these According to the International facilities should be confined to The South Bend Police Depart·Atomic Energy Agency, the plant countries with advanced nuclear ment is organizing a neighborhood watch program to reduce the in­cidence of crime in the South Bend community, said Kathleen Murphy,
Passenger train 
Saint Mary's student body president, at last night's Board of Governance meeting.
crashes, kills 23 
The goal of the "Crime Stoppers" 
GUAYMAS, Mexico (AP) -A Saturday. program is to reduce crime through freight train crashed into the rear of Gariby said that five Americans uniting students with the South a stalled passenger train near this were among the injured, but their Bend community. Pacific port city, killing up to 25 identities could not be immediately Suzanne Sommers, Christian life people and injuring 80, police said confirmed. said the injured were commissioner, reported on recent yesterday. being treated at three local hospi­informal meetings discussing the 
Sgt. Guaymas police headquarters tals. question "Is Saint Mary's a Catholic said that 20 to 25 people were killed College?" The purpose of the series
Guaymas police commander 
and the figure "could go higher" as was to gather student input on the
Romulo Terrazas said a fire sweptbodies are pulled from the twisted role ofCatholicism at Saint Mary's. 
through the mangled passenger cars wreckage of the Pacific Line passen­Sommers said the discussions
and many ofthe bodies were so bad­ger train. covered tenure policy, campus min­
ly burned they could not be iden­The official government news "We even take istry, theology requirements and the
tified. can't 
agency NOTIMEX reported that 2 importance of Christianity in
tlngerprints," he said. 
people were killed in the accident academic curriculum.
Gariby said only six bodies had Elaine Hocter, student body vice
been positively identified. president, said she has scheduled a 
Terrazas told reporters the pas­
meeting with Robert Foldesi, per­
senger train had mechanical dif­
Erratum 
sonnel director, to discus~ pos~iblc
ficulties and had been stopped 1 S 
changes in security. Any changes
miles east ofGuaymas for more than
In a story in last Friday's Observer, will be based on a security consult· 
an hour when the freight train
Theresa Tull was incorrectly iden· ant's report, recently commissioned 
smashed into it and crushed four
tified as the director of the Bureau of after two students were attacked on 
passenger cars.
Human Rights and Humanitarian Af­campus. fairs at the U.S. State Department. The passenger train was en route Dorm An Tosal representatives Tull is director of the Oftke for from Nogales on the U.S. border to will be commissioned to solve a past Human Rights, a division of the Guadalajara in central Mexico. communication problem between Bureau. The Observer regrets the er· {;uaymas is about 2SO miles south of the organizing committee and the ror. Nogales. Saint Mary's community. 
.. 
$$$$$ FINANCIAL A I D $$$$$ 

OVER $900 PER MONTH TO QUALIFIED 
SENIOR AND JUNIOR ENGINEERING STUDENTS NOW 
The United States Air Force has a special program that will pay you over $900 per month for up to 12 months prior to grad11ation. This program is called the College Senior Engineer Program (CSEP). Besides the money, you will also receive complete medical 
·and dental care, free legal service, 50 percent off on airline tickets and much more. 
WHAT IS THE CATCH? There are no hidden commitments. During these 12 months your only job is to remain a student at your school and also maintain a minimum 2.5 GPA. No uniforms, no meetings, no summer training camps, no special classes. When you graduate, you will attend a 12-week Officer Orientation Course and then serve a total of 4 years with the Air Force as a Engineering Officer. To qualify for this program you must be a U.S. citizen, meet physical and moral require­ments, and be majoring in an accredited engineering discipline with a minimum 2.5 GPA. There will be an information dinner about this program in the near future in the South Bend area. If you would be interested in attending or would like more information about this program, complete and mail coupon below to: 
MAIL TO: MARTY lAZAR, Am FORCE OFFICER PlACEMENT 125 S. Hill St., South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 2)6-8208 CALL COLLECT 
iA.'ME-------------------------
----­
ADMEss.=-------------------------------------------­
DISCIPLINE GPA.____ 
PHONE# 
YES N--=o--=I:.--::-:WO':":ULD=-=-L~I~KE=-~TO~A~TTEND=---~yo':":UR=--DINNER.......---.­
~please circle) 
co~s, 



jiP 
Editorials 
Monday, February 21, 1983-page 5 
W elcotning each other to the cotnputer age 
In keeping with one of my more favorite pastimes. I was avoiding my studies the other d;tv and thumbing through a periodical ~ud­dcnlv from the pages of this distinguished journal Iept the bold statement; "After lin: years of demonstrating on campus "'c'n: taking over the Administration Building." 
and not just a little paranoid about computers and the fiJture. 
~ot true' In t;ICt if it wen: not tor this word processor upon which I am writing.er. typing. there would he no editorial. Yes. thanks to a kc.-hoard and scret·n. I. the most atrociou~ tvpi~t on campus. am granted the time to write.. ~·at. .md even occa~ionally skep. 
As computers arc tied into a n·tllralllv based data system. your pnvacv and individuality will be thrcatennl. Everv tran,action vou make. everything n>u write. "ill he fed into a common agency. 
How long bdi>re our movements arc restricted and our actiom manipulated bv someone (or something) sitting at the main control keyboard ' 
It is a bit frightening to think that we could lose our humanity to a pik of inanimate software. But. if we're not· eeful the androids may not be far behind. 
But ~top and think !i>r a minute. A~ com­
Karen McCloskey 
puters perform mort: and more ofour manual 
Eastern Edge ta~ks. what will \\T do '' ith our extra time' \\ill we ju•.t sleep. h,l\ ing nothing to occup\ our mind~~ <lr wili we ht-co1ne a societ\· or 
I \\;,tts tempted to check the date oftlw is,ue 'idiots mesnH"ril.c·J h\ l':tc-\bn and the like tn see if it wasn't anttquated. But. upon clost-r 
This'' ont·thc sc·nou,..u1d unlqllt' problem' examination I discovered that this headline 
that we. as Llsher,-in nt I he Colll('Utcr .\gt·. was not a. throwback to the earlv 'eventies. 
must face. \\.ill this iel'ure time allow us 111 Rather. it was .111 advcrtbement for a popular 
become more tullY human or wtll \\ c become computer. 
further enslaH:d lw tn..lmolog\ ' Think about such a situation on our hcl<n ed 
In the same publication. a competing com­
campus. One can almost visualize the (;olden pam· bragged that it could use a' isual d1splay 
Dome hescignl bv hordes desk top com­to demonstrate a toptc .md not confuse tht· 
puters converging en masse. \\'atch out. 
issue with mes~~ words. But language it~elt is 
!·ather Tnl Perhaps this scenario is a hit the source ofour thoughts. \\'e need words to 
ridiculous. hut. let's bee it . we are living in. 
talk. We need them to capture those abstract 
the Age of the Computer Revolution. 
concepts which detint· our humanitY. To he Some of n~v friends would say that I am careless in using these computers could be merelv a rot;untic Arts and Letrers major dangerous. indeed. 
'Nor oN MY rrn,YOU'RE Nor!,
\\'c are faced with an Orwellian 'ituation.
houmi to the past like the books on my desk 
P.O. BoxQ 
The challenge to be pro-choice 
/)ear Editor: he protected and given rights' Catholics nurtured without loYe, one b hindered from follows the necessary precautions not to be believe at conception. Other Christian the future capability to love others. raped or become pregnant and it occurs. 
Not living in a utopian society. we must denominations believe at the point of We should foster the emotional well-being should her right to prosecute or regain con­concern ourselves with the misti>rtunes and ,·iabilin·. when the child in the womb is of the mother too. especially if she wll be trol of her lit'e be denied' One cannot be con­injustices ofother persons' lives and how our capable of existing independently of its mot­raising the child. This consideration renders sistenT in his or her principle~ and make these decisions can alleviate their social distresses. her. \1ost Protestants and Jews recognize live specitk attention to the ca~e of a deformed or exceptions while ignoring otht·rs. Pro-lifers fail to be sensitive to the prohkms of hirth as when life hegins. mentally ddkient fetus. To deny this fetus a 
-\\'e need more sensitivity to problem unwanted pregnancies and their drastic ef 
right to life implies the idea that an abnormal
Whatever it~ position on the abortion issue. pregnancie' and the extreme ~ocial stigmas of fects on the future lives of the children as well life is useless. 
each religious organization must respect the unwed mothers. We need to guarantee her as the entire family. 
rights ofothers to believe differently if we arc Parents who have retarded or phvsically physical. mental, and emotional health as well Instead. they seek to impose their unwaver­
to retain the freedoms of our democratic handicapped children and raise them in a as her capacities as a parent.ing, "holier than thou," personal beliefs and 
pluralistic socictv. loving atmosphere should he praised for their Societv must provide birth control informa­judgments of good conduct onto other mem­admirable efforts; however, some parents.
I urge you to consider the pro-choice, pro­tion and services and guarantee their acces­bers of society. Their personal morality again, are not emotionally or economically
family argument. sibility to all people in this country to alleviate
should not exist to limit another person's per­
able to rear this type of child. They may con­
I. To make abortion illegal will not the social and economic conditions which of­sonal freedom ofchoice. 
sider the additional enerh'Y and time spent
eliminate it. but only make it more expensive ten make abortion a necessity.
Their receptivent'S~ to and objective atten­
with this child a~ taking away from the otherand dangerous to obtain. Abortion is nine
tion for the needs and concerns of persons The !Iuman Life Amendment ( HLA) sub­
family members and hence become harmfultimes less hazardous to a woman's health than
leading lives of hardship warrants serious stitute cold and impersonal laws. If the liLA
to the entire family.
childbirth during the tlrst trimester. Even by
questioning. becomes law: 
the third trimester, abortion is still less risky -1. Consider the right to reproductive
l am not encoraging abortion as a A. No abortions t<>r women who have been
than childbirth. Health risks due to the privacy and freedom as well as the right to
pleasurable or unregrettable means to rid an exposed to X-rays or medication which have
woman's past pregnancies or present health procreate. Do we want to regulate the fre­
unwanted pregnancy. Thirty to 40 percent of been proven to cause ktal deformities or
condition warrant attention. quency of sex as a private act as well? Pro­
women do admit to having regrets afterwards. 
brain damage.
creation and child-rearing is not a duty. hut aHowever. these same women failed to ration­These cases involve prior traumatic B. No abortion, for example, for a l+year­right. One should he able to say "no."
ally evaluate their decision beforehand. Abor­deliveries or hemorrhagings after her last 
old girl impregnated by her b.ther. tion does break up the continuum of life 
delivery. as well as those in which the woman 5. To equate personhood with an unborn 
C. No abortion for a woman who already
which a process such as adoption maintains. is over·thirty -live or under sixteen years or t'etus is to dehumanize the woman. to con­
has several children and whose husband's 
Yet a woman. along with the father of the age. diabetic, has high blood pressure, or heart sider her a mere "thing" through which the brutality has caused her severe physical and 
unborn and the involved physician, should disease. fetus is passing. A person should possess more 
emotional problems.have the right to make the decision. The deci­
rights as he or she matures and exhibits inde­2. Ifour sincere concern focuses on helping 
D. No abortion for a high school student sion represents an alternative, a means of not the desperate needs of the poor, we should pendent thinking. Thus the need for 
who has no prospect for a stable home and undesirably altering one's total way of life as autonomy of the mother signitles greater
encourage the riddance oftheir economic dis­whose pregnancy would end her chance for respect than the unborn's life.
child rearing does. tresses which additional offspring create. 
an education. Our concern should be for the quality and 
We should seek to limit family size tor those Factors other than the fetal existence E. The HLA would force women to !lee to 
potential ofaffirmative life, not its mere quan­
persons who can not afii>rd or arc unwilling to should be given equal or greater weight at this !(>reign countries because their individual 
tity. Ifwe want to have responsibility tor our­
time--the whole family's welfare, its economic freedom for a medically advised abortion had selves and those we love, individual commit the money, time, and love necessary 
position, the age of the parents, their view of been denied. responsibility in family, sexual, and com­
to secure their child's future. 
the optimal number of children consonant 
Isincerely urge you to openly consider pro­
munity matters must be advocated. Abortion ~-Parents seriously violate their respon­with their resources and pressures of popula­choice arguments. Then honestly evaluate thesibility when they bring into the worldencourages this process. 
tion, and their vocational objectives. 
lack of legitimacy and validity of the narrow­
children for whom they cannot provide love. If one advocates abortion to save the mot­minded. conservative claims that abortion Let's concern ourselves with the definition 
Human life is distorted when it is unwanted her's life. isn't her life given precedence over shows a disregard and irreverence for human of life. If one believes God gives a couple the 
capability to create life, should not they alone and unlm-ed. Is it better to stop life or 
that of the fetus? Where's the consistency? lik. For not until then can one he justitled of
promote the psychological suft'ering and intelligently recognizing the best ways to decide if they want to or not? 
Consider the number of miscarraiges and tremendous anxiety of an unwanted child's 6. flow about the abortion advocates in promote a truly affirmative yuality oflit'e.
stillbirths. Not every conception is entitled to future' cases of"ti>rced sex" as in pregnancy's limited result in the birth ofa baby. Favorable upbringing is essential to a child's occurrence in rape and incest where the When docs this life begin and thus ~hould feelings of power. securitY and lm·e. If woman !l;td minimal control? Assuming one Name withheld by request 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, .'Votre Dame, IS ..J6556 
Editor-in-Chief..... . ........ Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper publishrd by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor ....... ........ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily retlcct 
Executive News Editor .............. David Dziedzic Aduertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMC Executiz'e Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editoriab represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..... ...................... joe Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Pboto Editor .............. .................... Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 
q 
~SttOWC 
Ulterior motives 
Y
es, I am a junior. But since all ofyou students cithc.r arc, wcrc, or will bc juniors as well, I do not fcel it unfair to make.Iunior Parcnt's Weekend-orJPW as wc juniors affcctionatcly call it-my nominal subject this week. Nominal. I sav. hecausc my cxperiencc withJPW has lcd me to an incredible thscovery about Notre Dame. Bcsides, I've been kind ofbusy with my own parent~ this wcekcnd so I haven't had the time to think ofanything else about which to write. 
To begin with, the concept ofJunior Parent's Weekend is very interesting indeed. Our parents are not coming out to haul our trunks and boxes at the yeal.''s beginning or cnd anti they are not venturing to thc mecca ofcollege f(Jothall to watch the Fight in' Jrish take on Navy again. Rather, they arc coming to South Ikntl in the middle ofwinter (given the dclightfully shocking<;<; dcgrcc weather 
Chtis Ftaset 
features 
wc hall, my folks want to know why I want to go to Florida) just to see us, their sons and daughters, and to meet and mingle with our friends and their parents. 
We, the juniors, struggle through the endlcss introductions at crowded gatherings and help our parents as they engage in that in­evitable small talk reminiscent ofour first freshmen dance. But despite the occasional forgotten name, those awkward silences, and our distant table at the President's Dinner that was almost on the ice rink, a good time was certainly enjoyed by all. We were even told that Father Hesburgh gave the keynote address although we could see only a white-topped speck across an imposing ocean of humanity. (Perhaps an exaggeration. It was more like a large pond of humanity.) 
Surely,JPW is a rare opportunity for the University to welcome a sometimes-forgotten element ofthe Notre Dame community and for the students to express a bit ofgratitude to their parents. But what is the real purpose ofJunior Parent's Weekend? I think I may have stumbled upon the carefully hidden reason the University en­courages the staging ofthis annual event. My suspicion is thatJPW is actually an Administration espionage tool used to discover prospective contributors and silence potential troublemakers. 
"Ridiculous!" you say? "Absurd!" you cry? "Yellow journalism!" you bellow? I think not. 
Saturday night at the President's dinner, someone at our table mentioned the possible housing lottery that might affect us juniors. The table consensus was that it would he mighty lousy to get hooted 0-C. In apparent retaliation for such protestations, we were, I believe, the last table to he served chow. Now I do agree that this could have been merely a corollary application of Murphy's Law. But I assure you, this is just the tip of the proverbial iceberg. 
My own dear mother was being a p;~rticularly vociferous objector to the idea ofa housing lottery. In fact, she proceeded to push the point even further. advocating that one gender of people could he moved into the other's dorms if more than enough ofone gender decided to"move off-campus. Ifyou don't understand, she was actual­ly suggesting the possible implementation ofco-ed dorms. Well, when our food finally did arrive. I'll bet you can guess who ditln't get a broccoli-stuffed tomato with cheese sauce. If you correctly guessed my mother, you are beginning to catch on to the subtle per­suasion techniques used by University agents. Still, you may remain unconvinced. 
"Junior Parent's Weekend is a time for reminiscence, a time t(Jr love, a time to entertain your parents," you argue. Clearly this is all true, but my evidence of the University's ulterior motives is not yet exhausted. 
Realizing that her speech was somehow being monitored, my mother changed her tone. "Well, I didn't get a broccoli-stuffed tomato with cheese sauce," she coyly stated, "so I don't think that Notre Dame is going to get that million dollar donation after all." While such a decision may seem a hit harsh, I must point out that my mother was also quite disapointed that they had served kumquats with dinner. (The kumquats were those little ovular orange things.) You see my mother loves kumquats but alas, she'd given them up for LenL Now I'm not paranoid but this inclusion ofkumquats may even be an indication ofearlier surveillance of my outspoken mother. Anyway, it wasn't two minutes after she'd mentioned withholding the million that a waiter was upon us with a broccoli-stuffed tomato with cheese sauce. 
At first, I was convinced that the table was bugged. I haven't com­pletely discounted this hypothesis but my intense search proved fruitless. I now suspect that the students working as waiters were really double agents spying for the Administration. The friendly and attentive service was probably a facade designed to keep them in close eavesdropping range. They can't fool me. 
So there you have it. The splendidly organized activities, the fan­tastic food, the entire unique experience, all a front for for the Ad­ministration's espionage. We spent the weekend dancing with our mothers, having a beer with our fathers and trying to decide which one oftheir parents our friends resembled. But while the rest of the juniors have already tucked away these memories to be nostagically recalled later, I have submitted a detailed report to the F.B.I. 

Nice show, guys, but... 
R 
EO Speedwagon, on the last leg on theirGood It was a nice show, guys. Trouble tour, stopped at the ACC last Saturday night They cheered and cheered. All the jukebox hitsca t me to entertain the largest crowd seen at the South Dome one by one. "Take It On The Run," "Time For Me To this school year for a concert. Fly," "Keep On Lovin' You," "Keep The Fire Burnin." 
The group opened to the bright glow oflighted Bic's, You could tell it was the songs you heard on the radio, the crackling sound of lead guitarist Gary Richrath's because they sounded alike. Exactly alike. Note· for high notes, and the drowning out oflead vocalist Kevin note, alike. 
Cronin's voice for the first number, "Good Trouble." It was a nice show, guys. It turned out to he a really nice show. There were three major parts to the concert. First But a really lousy concert. . was "Tough Boys," the acceptance of the new material. 
The crowd, about 85 percent South Bend residents, Next was the old stuff. Kevin Cronin, still able to relate were charged up for the concert. REO Speedwagon last to a crowd, stood with the lights down low and 
played at the ACC about three and a half years ago, and it described that fateful aircraft pilot that inspired the would be safe to say that most of the crowd did not now-famous, boogie-rock instrumental, "Turkey Trot." know who REO was hack then. The rest of the group came back for "Stillness ofthe 
But since then, the awesome Decade ofRock and Night," a song offGood Trouble. Gary let go with an ex­Roll, the multi-platium Hi-Infideli~v, and the follow-up cellent guitar solo. The girls weren't too crazy about it Good Trouble have taken a much younger set oftims by -it really hadn't hit the radio yet. Kevin's vocab were storm. strained, as they had been all night long. But the concert 
These were the majority offims that were at the ACC, had started. expecting the hits, as loud as possible, with as nice a '"Back On The Road Again," sung by bassist Bruce show as possible. And they were not disappointed. IIall, who except for vocals was quiet all evening, 
It was nice show, guys. meshed with drummer Alan Gratzer and sent the song 
The group played 18 songs. Six from Good Trou/Jle, on its way. The lights were nice, and the crowd ap­most oflligh lnfidelitr. and a Chuck Berry tunc. But preciated it. Maybe that was the foreshadowing I saw. there were two song~ notably missing -"Only the But I didn't have time to wo.rrv about that: the song StrongSurvive" Jnd "'I c;~ Riverside Avenue." started. "Ridin' the Storm Out." Everyone got up, 
Also missing-an Alan c;ratzer drum ~olo, J Neal everyone was singing, everyone knew the words. and Doughtry solo that wasn't alrl·ady recorded on vinyl. cvt·ryone knew the solos because it was exact/}' like it imagination. in~piration. rod. and roll ... you get the was on Decade ofRock and Roll. picture. The well-tininl pyros pleased the young girb. 
But it was a nice show, guys. Nice ~how, guys. "Darla, would you/ike me to su•inp, you?'" They played a couplc of encore~. Jnd the story was ··sure, A /fa/fa." the same, a~ well as the studio versions ofthe song~. For "But Alfalfa, u•bat about/be lle-.Htm Woman I5 years, REO Speedwagon labored under the loving 
Haters Club.~·· eye of the lllinob-Indiana area. without much coa~t "Sorry• .\jumky, lmt a man'sjust go/fa liue bis ou•n • succe~s. hut faithful fan~. We ignored the talk about life." opening Jet Survivor blowing them off the stage in the 
DJrla's charm turned Alfalfa and thousands ofother East during their tour thi~ summer. young men onto the wonders of females. On Hi· Red Ryder opened up f(Jr them this time, J tight lnfidelit}'. REO used these same words to turn young group with a couple ofsingles, a good rock hand just a females onto the wonders ofhuhhk-gum rock. With front man away from stardom. thc~e words, the fcmalcs stJrted screaming, and a~ the REO Spcedwagon f(Jllowed, a tight group with a lot of first ritl" of"Tough Guy~" rang and rang inside the ACC, singles, just a few years away from being a nice hand. they jumped up and started dancing. A few years back. 
Son of the Last ffiohican meets I 
T
he Son ofthe Last of the The band was called either Schaefer, and singer MJrk Gilbert. MohicJns apeared suddenly on "Adrenalin" or "Detroit's Hottest According to Arthur "Baby" Pen­Friday night. Striding from the (Bar) Band," or "the best band we've hallow ofWRIF Radio in Detroit, seasonably slimy South Bend night, ever had in Senior Bar," or "what a Adrenalin is "the best performing he entered Senior Bar without bunch of hacks," depending on group in Detroit." (Apparently, 
whom the Son of the Last ofthe Detroit is without an opera com­Mohicans was standing beside. pany, a symphony orchestra, or a
J.P. Keyes 
"What causes this great ambiguity of baseball team. ) description among the members of Adre~alin has recently released an the audience?" wondered the Son. album and two singles. And now 
bcu shopping To aid himself in unravelling this their "juices are starting to flow 
sublime mystery, he checked the again." paying. Nobody bothered to ask for band's portfolio for pertinent in­The Son was not happy. his money. Ifthey had, he probably 
formation, and this is what he found: First ofall, his ears had begun to would have spit in their socks, in ac­"Adrenalin attacks the stage," bleed from the extreme volume of cordance with the Mohican custom according to Steve Kostan of WABX Detroit's loudest (bar) band. 
Radio ...
for responding to such an insult. The Secondly, he was waiting to hear Son of the Last of the Mohicans had 
Adrenalin consists ofMike Romeo something original in the band's to review "Detroit's Hottest (Bar) and Flash Haggerty on guitars, original songs, which was both Band," and he hates to review bar Mike's brotherJim on sax, dr.ummer frustrating and futile. bands. Brian Pastoria, bassist Bruce Finally, he still hadn't decided 
···············································································~·· 
The Observer Features Section 
Monday, February 21, 1983 -page 7 
Edawtd Abbey: southwest passage 

E
ditor's note:As was mentioned 
in Friday's "Showcase," Edward 
Abbey has replaced Mary' Robison 
on the Sophomore Literary' Festival 
roster. Mike Duggan provided the 
following piece on Abbey's work. 
Edward Abbey is more than an astute observer ofthe American Southwest, he is an author deeply committed to preserving what last bit ofopen space, clean air, and flowing water is left in this world. To those who have spent their life in the 
ffiikeDuggan 
features 
heartland ofAmerica. and have not 
seen the changes that have degraded 
the West'~ quality oflife. Abhey·~ 
position might seem unimportant. 
But from the viewpoint ofone who 
has grown up and been weaned on 
the landscapes ofArizona, Abbey is a 
hero. 
Not much fine literature has come 
out ofthe Southwest; there is little to' 
compare with the likes of l'aulkner 
in the South or Fitzgerald in the East. 
But Abbey has given an excellent try 
at rectifying this situation. Itis 1968 
work, Desert Solitaire , is a small classic, ha,·ing been compared to Thoreau's Walden and Leopold's Sand Countv Almanac. But com­parisons are unfair; each of these authors is unique and has done his • own thing. Abbey's thing is to bounce rented Ford Fairlanes across the Australian Outback, float six­backs ofbeer down the Colorado 
River (in his belly or his ice chest), 
and put a good deal ofdistance be­
tween him and the nearest urban 
sprawl. Unfortunately this good fun is getting hard to find. And Abbey has been forced to spend his time 
fighting off the encroachmems of 
well-funded bureaucracies like the 
Federal Government that would like 
nothing better than to pave a high­
way to every last corner ofthe map, 
bringing with it new facilities. new 
regulations, and a new wave of 
money-toting tourists travelling in 
their air-conditioned "motorized 
wheelchairs." 
Abbey's writing centers on the in­herent conllict of values between the Old West and the mechanized. automated, bureaucratized society that is supplanting it. A recent no,·cl, Good :Veu•s . portrays a confronta­tion, set in Arizona in the not too dis­
tant future, between the last remnants ofauthority and the local people ofa post-civil war militarist police state. And his most successful work, The Monkey Wrench Gang, details the exploits ofa band of 
marauders that would like to 
prevent any futher construction in 
the wilderness canyon country of 
Southern Utah and Northern 
Arizona. The monkey wrench is Ab­
bey's hardened symbol of revolt 
~ainst those who cannot com­
prehend beauty, only dollars. But a 
good portion of his work -and what I consider the strongest -is a choice mixture ofpersonal ad­ventures and critical essays written with a satirical slant. This includes such works as Thejourney Home, 
Abbey's Road, and Down the River. The latest, Down the Riz•er contains stories of trips down Alaskan rivers, t ltah canyons, and the dusty roads of Sonora, Mexico. along with inves­tigation~ into the status of the MX and a nuclear weapons plant near Denver, Colorado. 
Abbey. in drawing attention to the fallacies ofour national and local governments or attacking the \'C~ted interests therein. has become a tar­get of verbal assault and criticism. \1an~· may wonder ifhe can call him selfan American. But like a modern day Robin llood of the West. Ab­bey's intcre~t i~ in pn,tecting those very rights and liberties by which we detlne the term, American. lie is lighting for his own rights and those ofthe true residents ofthe American Southwest. Birds and river rats in­cluded. 

'ttoit's hottest (bat) band· 
how to describe the phenomenon 
that Adrenalin represents. Perhaps 
the best way to understand his 
problem is to read his notes from 
Friday night, copied from an over­
heard conversation. 
"The band is very loud... very, VERY LOUD!! Too loud for human consumption certainly. And yet the volume IS the band! Without being obnoxiously loud they become a bunch of posturing high school kids without anything to say or any means ofsaying it. For instance, con­sider their original material. Songs with real meaning, like "I Hope It's You," "I Don't Know When to Quit," and "Everything Is Gonna Be Al­right," and lyrics that bring banality to its greatest height. They not only seem to say ludicrous nothings ­
they seem to say them with convic­tion, without understanding or caring that their music is as boring as reruns ofAmerican Top 40 on AM Radio. This is the kind ofREO Speed­wagon clone band that most people over 1 5 years ofage complain about having to listen to on pop radio shows." 
"On the other hand, these guys aren't supposed to be artists. They're a BAR band!! Loud, dressed in jeans and black leather, real high school dropout rock-n-roller types! There's a certain image that is sacred to this type ofsetting(the bars) and it must be upheld even at the risk ofbanality and sheer stupidity. After all, bar music is NOT art." 
Well, it is hard to say which view the Son holds himself. He was heard to say, with a thick Mohican accent, ofcourse, "Ifthey begin another song with that noxious drum intro, I think I'll throw-up." 
Unfortunately, the Son missed the band's second set ofthe night. 
Nevertheless, our Son, along with several hundred other rock-n-roll animals, left Senior Bar smiling, confident that he had gained some­thing significant from experiencing "Detroit's Hottest (Bar) Band." He was heard to utter, "There's nothing in the world like a bar that is not afraid to spend the extra money on live entertainment." 
For him, and everyone at Senior Bar last Friday, we extend a big thank-you to the Student Union and especially to the Bar managers for providing a very entertaining evening. 
Konln complex 
W 
hen Woody and 1 met tlve years ago, we became fast friends. w·e went every-where together in those first days ofour friendship. He had an easy, animal charm that made him the hit of every party. 
Woody was wittier than I could ever be, and he was comfortable saying things I would never have the courage to say. \X'omen were draV.·n to him, and he would tlatter and amuse them until they were completely won over. 
Wherever we went. parties, movies. bars, ball games -the story' was thl· same. Women swooned and men clapped him on the back· and shook his hand as if he were the world's answer to loneliness. As his friend. I was the beneficiary of his magnetic qualities -anyone drawn to him had to acknowledge my presence sooner or later. 
Bruce Oakley 
out on a limb 
l'sually, acknowledgement was about as far as it ever got. Every once in a while, though. Woody would introduce me to someone who would honestly take an interest in me. My first girlfriend, for ex­ample, was captured largely through my friend's enviable charm. 
So, Woody was, in a large sense, the world's answer to loneliness for me. 
I even wrote a short story about him for an English class. The story began as a bittersweet tale ofa boy's growth to maturity under the warming intluence ofa good friend. Ultimately, however, it was an admission ofemptiness, ofa hollow life badly lived. 
Woody, you see, is a koala bear-a hand puppet. He was a Christmas gift five years ago from a friend who knew I would be crazy enough to appreciate him. 
At first, that's how it worked. But as time passed, I became fright­fully insecure about the whole business. After all, Woody was virtual­ly nothing without me -I had even gone so far as to get him brown eyes to replace the fluorescent orange eyes which were his original equipment, and I had scraped some ofthe black gloss paint off his nose to make it look less like hard plastic. 
His wit was mine, except that Icould be less inhibited speaking for him than I could for myself. He was a beast, and could be expected to behave as such. 
I taught him everything he knew, which included playing various air instruments, playing hard-to-get, and playing the field. He could be shy or aggressive, depending on my assessment of the person drawn to him at a given moment. 
He was nothing without me, but without him Icould never put so 
much personality into play. No one was ever drawn to me without 
this new hairy friend. I grew hopelessly jealous ofa stutl'ed animal. 
I took this as indicative of a severe character tlaw. 
Idid my best to grow out ofit. I stopped taking Woody with me to bars and parties. In fact. I only took him with me for company on long trips. 
I moved into less lifelike forms of koala paraphernalia­notebooks, Christmas cards. stationery, posters. I worked slowly toward becoming comfortable again at the sight ofa koala. 
Now, after several years ofgrowing up, I can almost bring Woody out as a companion rather than as an answer to emptiness. I try not to notice that he still attracts more attention than I do. 
I notice instead how his head droops and hb fur is worn. and he loob les~ lively than he once did. e~pecially when compared to his new family. 
A friend gave me two small stutled koalas to keep Woody com­
pany. \'ictoria and Brisbane (Woody's nephew) have long arms with 
\'elcro strips on the wrists so that they can embrace each other. 
I wonder. in my twisted way of making Woody as real as possible, 
ifhe feels a twinge ofjealousy as he watches \'ictoria and Brisbane in 
their enduring, shameless embrace. I wish he could feel the painful 
joy ofwatching others in love. 
IfWoody ever truly demonstrated some ofthe character I imagine 
he has, I wouldn't feel so badly about occasionally demonstrating 
more hollowness than he can muster. 
smerd 
by Ted Ozark 

/ 

' · -" ·c,-,u~~ 
l 
1 
~ 
Sports=l=l=r=i=e~t~s====::;::===============M=o=n=d=ay=,F=e=br=u=ary==2=1,=19=8=3===pa=g=e=s 
Bv /be Ohsen·er and /be Assndatetl Press 
The Fellowshlp of Christian Athletes 
will hold a meeting tomorrow night in St. Ed's Chapel at S p.m. All are invited. -The Observer 
Windsurfer class starts tomorrow for Free ('niversity, at 7:30p.m., 105 O'Shaughnessy. At thattime. a time and place will be set for a simulator session and a SS fee will he collected for supplies. Any questions, call WIND at I SH2. -The Ohserver 
Open volleyball captains have a mandatory 
meeting tonight at 4 p.m. in tht• ACC Auditorium. All 52 teams are expected to he represented. -The Ohsert•er 

Feb. 23 is the deadline for registration ti>r two mterhall tournaments. The open racquethall tournament. opt·n to 
•mvone on campus -students. faculty. and stall -will bt: <L ,.,inglt· dimination tournamem. best of1hree games, one round per wn·k. A wrestling rournament also will be held-tht· weight classes are 125. 
150, 1.:\~. !-IS, 152, 160. 16-.. I~-.. and unlimited. flails may sign up cts teams. Call 2.:\lJ-6100 or stop by C-2 of the ACC to rq~ister li1r either of these tournaments bdi>re next Wednesday. -Tbe 0/J­
sen'er 
The Hockey Blue Line Club will host a ban­
quet in honor of the !\lotre Dame hockey team. The hanquet will he held on :\londay, Fehruary 2H, at the Century Center. Cost 1s SI0.00 for mt·mbers and S 12.00 for non-members. Cocktails are served at 
6:50 and the huft"et dinner hegins at 7:50. Reservations must be made by Fehruary 21 by calling the hockey oftke or Thelma llesling at 25--l-8279. All students are cordially invited. -The Ohseruer 
Before family and friends the Notre Dame 
wrestling team topped Sit-na Heights College 55-H Saturday after­noon at the ACC Pit to raise their record to 18-2. hest in Irish history. Sec Jeff Blumb's story in tomorrow's paper. -The Obseruer 
Saint Mary's basketball team will play its last 
game of the ·season tonight against visiting Saint Joseph's College. Tip-oft· is scheduled for 6:50 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles will take a 9-12 into tonight's contest after winning four out of 
its last six contests. Sophomore point-guard Elaine Suess ha~ paced Saint Mary's resurgence. Suess has heen named to the Hanover and l'niversity of Wisconsin (Green Bay) All-Tournament teams over the six-game stretch. -The Ohsen•er 
' . . t
The men s swunmmg earn came through the 
weekend with a pair of wins against Northern-lllnois and Chicago Circle and a loss against Bradley. The swimming team takes its dual meet record of 9-4 and competes in the Midwest Invitational on March 3, -!, and 5. See tomorrow's paper for more details. -The Obsen,er 
• • • Women 
continuedji·om page 1.! 
(Schueth) inside," explained Doug­
herty. "hut I saw that there were 
nine seconds kft. so I just shot it. Af­
ter the third bounce, I didn't even 
look.'" 
Illinois State made one last at­
tempt to win the game. hut Schueth 
intercepted a pass and Notre Dame 
had the victory. 
Irish 68, Bradley 57 
. PEORIA. Ill. -l'ridav. the \lotn· Dame women·, baskt·tball team fell behind earh·. hut ..:ame through when it counted to dekat the l.atlv Brave~ of llradlcv, 6H-S~. tonight at the Robert~on held llouse. 
The contest was realh· two gamt·s wrappnlup in one. 
The t1r't "gamt•" lasted lor I H minutes of the lirst half as Bradley showed whv it was the top scoring team in tht· country last ~Tar and among tht· top twenty thb year. moving out to a quick I H-point lead. 
51.)-21. 
Lady Br:.tvc guardsJudv Burns and 
Karen Anders Ion led the offensive 
harrage hy hitting l·t consecutive 
jump shots between them. 
· "We were swiss cht"t'se on defense," said Irish co;tch Mary DiS­tanislao. "We told the girls that Brad­ley scored almost 90 points :.t game. so they ohviously had a volatile of­tense. But they still weren't playing :tggressive ddense. They were run­ning right at Burns and Anderson, and the two of them went right by them." 
Meanwhile, the Notre Dame ol~ fense was having its problems, mis­sing many good chance' ti>r baskets. 
"We weren't quite patient enough," explained DiStanislao. "It was almoM deja 11u of the Alabama game (when the Irish shot .'B per­cent and lost ). 
"Still, our real problem was their offense. Their players were really pumped up because it was their last home game and they had five seniors." 
When Anderson hit a jumper with two minutes left to move the score to 39-21, it looked like Bradley would pull off a big upset. 
But then guard Laura Dougherty 
went to work. 
She got the Irish going with a 
layup and then saved a hall from 
going out of hounds, passing it to 
Lisa Brown ti>r an easy layup. Anoth­
er nice pass to Shari .\1atvey gave 
Notre Damt· another easy shot, and. 
with time running out in the half, she 
rehountkd an Irish miss and put it 
in. 
Tht· impressive .~treak brought 
:-.iotre Dame w within 10, 5')-21.), a~ 
the team~ went to the locker room. 
The ~t-cond h.alf was no contest as 
the Irish linallv got their ddensi\T 
game plan \Vorking. Thev kn~·w that 
they needed to control Burns and 
they did. li>rl"ing her to turn 1~1e hall 
O\'l'r six times and throw up many 
weak shot!\. 
The strategy worked wonders as 
they hdd Bradlt-y. who w:ts averag­
ing HS poinb a game, to ju~t I Hover 
the tina! 22 1flinutt'S. 
"Defensively. it was the best half of the season." said DiSt:tnislao. "But we nenlt·d to do it after wt· gave up 51.) points in the firM ha!C' 
The Irish wiped out the Hr:tdley lead in a hurry. When freshman guard Denise Basford hit :t I 0-ti>ot jump shot with 12:S I left, they had their tirst lead of the game, --1H---i7. 
They did not stop there, eventual­
ly scoring I H unanswt'red points as 
the Braves went more than nine 
minutes without scoring. Notre 
Dame had a nine-point lead before 
Bradlt:y ·tinallv scored again. The 
lead never was smaller than five the 
rest of the game. 
Once again, the Notre Dame of tense showt·d its balance and depth as nine ditl"erent players scored. Trena Keys and Carrie Bates came off the hench and wen: the big 
scorers, getting 16 and I..., points, respectivdy. Dougherty con­tributed 12 points and 7 assists, while center_Mary Beth Schueth led the team with I I rebounds. 
The win improves the Irish record to I S-7 heading into the lllinqis State v.ame. Bradley drops to 13-13. 
IRISH ITEMS -Dougherty and 
Bates were the high scorers for the 
weekend with 26 and 2H points, 
respectively. Keys. and Schueth each had 20 .... De-bbi Hensley set a per­sonal high· for rebounds with seven against Bradley. Her previous hest was four. She also blocked a shot against Bradley which was not recorded because of an over­sight . lllinoi;. State's ·1 ~ and Bradley's o;~ marked season lows for h!)th teams. . . . I.~·nn Ehht·n and 
./t'nny Klauke did not dress ti>r either game because of injuries. 
• • • Men 
continuedji"IJIII page 12 
,\ 1H percent 'hooter. :\cord is averaging l l .H points ami 'i._~ rebounds a game. 
The other ti>rward I(Jr third-\·ear Zips coach Bob Rupert i~ Jamie Stu­her,.,. A 6-'; sophomorc. Suthers is averaging (>. ~ point,., .md 1.6 rehountb a game. But the Windsor. Ontario nati\·e has heen on a tear in tht' past two weeks. In ont· three game stretch -Zip wins against Youngstown State. ,\turray State, and .\1 iddle Tennessee -Suthers shot an incredible HI percent on I~ of 21 shooting. He also pulled down IH rebounds and dished out I--1 assists in the three encounter,.,. 
Anchoring the Akron pivot slot is 6-.., Tim Spikes. Tht: lone senior on this l'A team, Spikes b the leading rebounder. pulling down 6.1 rebounds a game. The Columbus, Ohio native is in his third year at Ak­
ron after transt"ering from West Ark Community College. 
'"Akron is an explosive hallcluh," says Phelps. "They've been involved in a couple of heart-hreakers lately. but should be tired up coming in here for the t1rst time ever. They've never had the chance to see our sixth man, the student body, in ac­tion. This game, and every game left on our schedule, are big games with an NCAA bid riding on our perfor­mance. We need a good student tur­nout against Akron and Hofstra this week to help us in our stretch drive." 
The Observer w111 accept ctass1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am to 4 30 p m However. class1f1eds to appear 111 the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1fieds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 111 person or through the ma1l
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
TYPING 
Jackie Boggs 
684·8793 
TYPING WANTED 277-8534 6·1 0 PM M­
F. ALL DAY WKNDS 
CAMPUS MINISTRY WEEKEND RETREAT ·sohtude&Communily·· Sr Judtth Ann Beattie & Ms Mary Ann Roemer Feb 25-27/ Lake M1ch1gan House Reservalions 239·5242 
RESUMES -Professionally prepared. 232-6362 
Grand Canyon Summer Jobs Employers Recrutling Now Complete Oetalls·$2 00 Wnte Canyon. Box 30444 Tucson. AZ 85751 
WANTED 
Need nde to St Lou1s 3/9 or 3/10 Call Susanne 284·41 09. 
NORTH JERSEY RIDE NEEDED for break Can leave 3/11. One-way only W1ll share usual Please call JOYCE x6778 
ATLANTANS OR THOSE OF THE SURROUNDING AREA!! HOW ABOUT GIVING A HOMESICK FRESHMAN A TIDE TO. AND PROBABLY FROM, THAT GREAT CITY FOR SPRING BREAK. 
WILL PAY USUALllCALL REGGIE AT x1423!11 
need RIDERS to COLOMBUS.OHIO from 2/24 to 2/27 call ANDRE x7449 
HELP! HELP! HELP! I need a nde lo Mil· waukee th1s weekend If yau·re gomg my way. please call Juhe at 3882 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE Marantz model 1 030 30W stereo amp Marantz 110 tuner Sony PS -LX2 automatiC. d1rect-dnve turntable w/ Stanton cartndge Advent 9 two-way spkrs PHONE 8929 
Portable GE lape recorder Excel cond $20 00 239·7474 
FOR RENT 
House 4 bedroom. near NO. $290 permo Fall or summer No ut1l1t1es Phone (319) 322·8735 Patly 
Sem1-Furn 28dRm Apl near NO Ut1hl1es Pd Less Gas Ph 272·0261 
LOST/FOUND 
Lost gold se1ko quartz watch poss1bly left 1n locker room at lhe Rock on 2/4/83 If found. please call K1m at 277·7401 
Lost Reward Burgundy purse & wallel Lost at 01llon Hall Fnday, 11 Last seen 1n Food Sales Please return my hcense. school 1 d .. & p1c!ures are 1n I here Call 284·5181 Thank you LOST NO CLASS RING( 83). NAME. INSIDE. BLUE STOME. LOST POSSIB­LY AT SMC(MOREAU-OLAUGHLIN HALL). LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND OF 1128-1130. BIG REWARD $$$ OF­FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO PLEASE CALL 283·3346 
LOST Pulsar Portable ALARM CLOCK. Digital, Gold tone w1lh blue face, FRIDAY. JANUARY 27 1n the ENG AUDITORIUM!!! PLEASE call CHARLES al x1496 THANKS!!! 
I LOST MY LAUNDRY IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL···IF YOU FIND THEM PLEASE CALL BRENDAN AT 7997 ANYTIME··! HAVENT CHANGED MY UNDER WEAR IN FOUR DAYS!!!! 
To the pe1son who removed my blue Or· game Chem1stry notebook from the South Otmng Hall on Fnday. Feb 11. between 1 & 1 30pm. I would appreciate 1ts 1m· med1ate return Ill be glad to let you bor· row 11 some time when I don·t need tt! My name and number IS on 1! so call me! 
Second floor Shakespeare 
HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY 
(I tned for Fnday) 
How re !hose Gamma rays? 
a Gem1n1 Belly Dancer 
Found Glfl s walch outs1de North 01n1ng Hall on the 16th Call2905 
LOST PAIR OF SILVER FRAMED GLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE THE CASE WAS FALLING APART AND IS HELD TOGETHER BY A PIECE OF SILVER DUCT TAPE IF FOUND PLEASE CALL PHIL AT 8295 
DESPERAEL Y NEEDED!!IHIH!!!!!!I! 
TICKETS 
Need DePaul lickels w111 pay $$$ call Mark 8919 
NEED 3 DAYTON TICKETS--JULIE 3725 
PERSONALS 
Need R1de To Connectrcut For Spnng Break Will Share Usual Please Call Dan at 6824 
Elkhart 
NED IV NED IV NED IV NED IV 
Uberty. .Uberty . .. Here, Uberty/ 
Boston 
Need nde to Boston on Fn or Sat March 25 or 26 (That s the weekend alter spnng break ) W1111ng to share cost et al Call Jeb al8641 Thanks 
ATIN: ALL FARLEY WOMEN!II Remember lo vote on Tues. Feb 22' Remember to support the leadership backed by EXPERIENCE, DEDICATION, & REALISTIC IDEAS!II Remember to elect MARY BETH WACKOWSKI-President MAUREEN MCGILLIS • VIce-President 
H1de the children! Ryan and Joe are back! 
Ride needed. Are you com1ng back from or through At­lanta aNe1 spnng break? Are you com1ng back early say. on Fnday, March 18? I need a nde. then Got 10 take GMATs. Call Jeb al 8641 Thanks 
Sa1nl Marys sludents YOU can buy Ob­server class1f1eds on the Sa1nt Mary s campus Come to the SMC Observer off1ce 1n the off1ce of Reg~na South. Mon­day through Fnday. 12 30 lo 3 p m 
HUMPY THE CAT IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN CHICAGO 
M.­
KEEP SMILING AND HAVE A GOOD 
WEEK!! THINGS COULU BE WORSE 
YOU KNOW--THERE COULD BE THREE FEET OF SNOW ON THE GROUND!! 
Now Available Ill Lam~nated centerfolds of 2-E W Stan· Iordi Get yours wh1le they re hot! 
Call Fran at 4228 Checks and ma1or credit cards accepted 
Sleepyhead. Pretzels. champagne. and be1ng logether -nothing could be f1ner 1 Thanks for the wonderful weekend Love forever. G1H 
Dear Ch1p. Congra1s on a successful 8 yr B-ball career Happy relirement daze are ahead Look1ng forward to next year Love. your redheaded roommate 
83 days 1111 graduation. lets celebrate! 
SENIOR 83 Days 1111 GRADUATION PARTY TONITE AT SR BAR! Come ear· ly for Formal B1d g1ve-away! 
TO TEST THE BOUNDS OF REALITY? 83 days. yaahoo1 HEY N/A n1ce shoes stup1d! a m1nor diety 
Gnef ~n sp1tte of externalities. we w1ll fly (une a~ mfm1e qut ne peut Pas moum) You are the "bestt· have lhe happ1es1 B· Day ever. 1n sp1te of the locale Leis tnp· Bndge, Flack Buck. Sh1ps.e1 aJ.IegaliiY 1n CT IS conven1ent 1f you don t forget the address on your ma11 ILY and so do the rents 
SENIORS! Just 83 days 1111 graduation. Sen1or Bar celebration toon1ght! 
SENIORS monday night at senior bar, be there everyone. 
Sen1ors. only sen1ors. SENIOR BAR TONITE 83 days1!! 
GREAT BOOKS--GREAT MINDS·· MEET FACULTY AND STUDENTS OF THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES MONDAY FEB 28, 6 30 PM. GRACE PIT 
JUST KEEP REPEATING TO .YOUR· SELF ITSONLYA 
BRUNO'S 
ORIGNAL FAMILY 
PIZZA 
A SECOND LOCATION -NORTH ON 31. 
ONE MILE FROM N D FREE DELIVERY 
TO CAMPUS . MON-THURS AT 7 00 
PM AND 10 00 PM ·ORDER BEFORE 6 30 FOR THE 7 00 DELIVERY AND BEFORE 9 30 FOR \HE 10 00 DELIVERY CALL NOW 27"1·451 9 
ED MANIER S 9 30 Oarw1n and Freud and his 1 15 Technology and Soc1ety classes WILL NOT MEET on Tuesday. Feb 22 

r 
The Observer Monday, February 21, 1983 -page 9 
• • • Hockey 
continuedji·om page 12 
+2. dominated play quite well," said After Bianchi put the Irish up S-2 Irish coach Lefty Smith. "It was un­
ro ~core twice within <>11t: minute. after two periods, OSLI's Andy fortunate we had that incident in the
'>ten: Whitmore tlropped a pass to Browne scored. a power-play goal beginning, but thev (the referees)
Kin Bjork. who~t· ~hot caromed just :21 into the third period to cut were being slow with whistles and
wide of the goal. Alertly. Whitmore the margin to two. The Buckeyes all of a sudden things started to
picked up the rebound and slid it in 
kept applying the pressure, hut Irish break out."
front to Brent Chapman, who heat goalie Bob McNamara rose to the oc­"Despite all the penalties, it was a
goalieJohn Dougan. 
casion, stopping several excellent great wm, added Bianchi,
The lrbh jumped ro a :3-1 lead as Buckeye chances. The most out­"especially against a team that was
Bjork intercepted a clearing pass 
standing came at 9:56 as McNamara, hot as they were."
and tired a low drive past a screened 
lying on his stomach, reached up Saturday night, the BuckeyesDougan. 
and gloved a Dave Kobryn shot from wasted no time taking advantage of 
Perry Pooley cut the Notre Dame point blank. Notre Dame's sloppy play and lead to .3·2 at 4:21 of the second Chapman's second goal of the penalties, as they poured in three period, hut it was Bjork again who game on a rebounded Bjork shot put power-play goals and jumped to a 5­
tipped in a Sean Regan shot on an the Irish up 6-.3 and iced the victory. 1 lead after two periods and breezed Irish power play to make .the score "Basically, five-on-five, ~e from there. 
"We just didn't do anything right," said Smith. "Ourdefense had trouble moving the puck and our forwards
No.5 Virgina over 
had trouble trying to pass it. It was just basically a complete breakdown of the entire squad.
Stipanovich, Tigers 
"Overall on the weekend, the 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Stipanovich, the Tigers' 6-11 cen­Friday night game was tremendous Ralph Sampson sank 1 I of 12 foul ter, finished with 27 points, ·12 but at the same time, I'm very disap­shots in the second half and finished rebounds and five blocked shots. pointed that we didn't play better on with 21 points, 10 rebounds and five Othell Wilson scored 18 points, Saturday night." 
blocked shots to lead fifth-ranked including 12 in the second half, for The Irish are now 11-17-2 in the Virginia to a 68-5.3 college basket­Virginia, which boosted its record to CCHA, but 5-2-1 since the an­ball victory over No. 12 Missouri 21-3. nouncement dropping hockey to 
yesterday. Missouri, which lost to Oklahoma club status, and need just one vic­Sampson, the Cavaliers' 7-foot-4 State 79-73 in a Big Eight game Satur­tory to ensure the eighth and tlnal center, was in foul trouble for much day night, fell to 20-6. playoff position. 
of the second half and sat out a stretch of 5:16. But he made 8-of-8 free throws as Virginia scored 1 7 of its last 21 points from the foul line, including 12 straight. 
Virginia outscored Missouri 18-4 in the tina! eight minutes, limiting the Tigers to Steve Stipanovich's IS­foot jumper and Mark Dresslers two free throws. 
St. John's overcomes DePaul 
NEW YORK ( AP) -Sixth-ranked St. John's broke open a close game with less than seven minutes remaining and heat DePaul 64-52 behind Chris Mullin's 19 points yes­terday. 
The victory, before a crowd .of II ,012 at Madison Square Garden and a national televbion audience (NBC). ·boosted the Redmen's record to 22-3. DePaul is 14-9. 
DePaul had taken a 47-46 lead with seven minutes remaining on Bernard Randolph'~ jump shot. But St. John's then went on a 1+2 spurt to take a 60--19 lead. Ten ofSt. John's points during the spree came from the free throw line. 
:vlullin. a 6-tiJOt-6 sophomore. who was held to four points in the:: tlrst hal( made eight of nine free throws down the ~tretch to clinch the victory. 
Buy 
ObsPrver 
• 
MATH {MAJORS/MINORS/APTITUDE) 
You're Needed All Over the World. 
Ask Peace Corps Moth volunteers why their degrees ore 
needed in the classrooms of the world's developing notions. 
Ask them why ingenuity and flexibility ore as vital as adopting 
ro a different culture. They'll rell you their students know Moth is 
rhe key to a solid future. And they'll rell you thor Peace Corps 
odds up to a career experience full of rewords and ac­
complishments. Ask them why Peace Corps is the roughest job 
you'll ever love. 
Seniors can picv up an apnlication 
in advance in the Placement office 
for interviews ~eh 22 & 23. 
PEACE CORPS 
SPRING;r.ALAuaERDALE 
e 
Package Includes .... 
8 Days, 7 Nights First Class Hotel accommedations in the Heart of the Famous Ft. Lauderdale Strip on the ocean. 
Welcome Party with Free Refreshments. Complete program of optional activities. All taxes and service charges. 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL: 
$159perperson 800-325·0439 
HURRY ... SPACE LIMITED!! 
-

FRESHMEN 
interested in the COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
are invited to attend a talk and discussion period by 
Vincent R. Raymond Associate Dean 
in the College of Business Administration 
Tuesday, February 22 Room 122 Hayes Healy Center 7:30P.M. 
-l 
The Observer Monday, February 21, 1983 --page 10 I 
February 21 
The Crime of M. Lange (19351 
Jean Reno" France. 8/W 85 mtn Jean Renoir was at the peak of h1s powers rn th1s popular front comed ;­allegory set w11h1n a s1ngle apartment bu1ldrng Jules Barry·piays an unscrupulou5 publisher and Rene Lefevre the dreamy creator of pulp novel hero Ar1zona J1m 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admissicm, 
.._.__---lrt() ~ /ltl3 lti lr-$-~-')._o-0 .,· 

Few hopes and dreams ... 
Putting together next weekend 
Piecing together an interesting ll'eekend ofsports: 
Going to Daytona or lknver or Lauderdale for Spring Chris Needles Break? You may want to put your plans on hold, ti>r after 
Sports Editor ~ 
this wtTkend's action, Notre Dame may just end up with three teams in post-season tournaments over break. 
Digger Phelps' Irish haskcthall team didn't even play over the wcekend, but their NCAA Tournament the Irish can beat good teams on the road. And for \lary chances were strengtht·ned greatly. llow, you ask? Be­D.'s s4uad, that's a very encouraging sign_ cause Pitt and North Carolina State, two teams the Irish 
r~~~~~:~~.'j;xei{!a;r;:xc::~·>.:..>~, upset on the road last wcck, cach sprang major upsets on Saturday. The Panthers edged (;eorgetown, 6S-65. The hockey team, mt·anwhile, continued its ,how of whilc the Wolfpack handed North Carolina its third pride by splitting a serit's against the hottest team in the
i · CORBY'S i 
straight loss, '0-6:'>. country, Ohio State. A split next weekend at the .u:c against Illinois-Chicago, the CCIIA'" worst team. will
I monday Night i But if the Irish stumble in any otlicr game -he it ensure the Irish a playoff spot.
Akron. llolstra, Seton llall, Dayton or Northern Iowa­By the way. next weekt'tlll willlx-your la.'>t chance to
wave goodbye to an NCAA bid. 
~ Special 1 
sec the Division I Irish at the A< :c. To the 99 percent of
That's why Pht·lps is pushing fi>r student support in the stllllt-nt body who nevn have bothered to show up
these next two games, and his point is well taken. Studv at an Irish hockev game, you owe it to the team to give
for the midterms later, but show up and cheer tonigl{t them a fitting htrewell next friday and Saturday.
I Ladies Night ;fj\, I
and tomorrow. ~~ (: -~J~ ~ Remember. an :\11> loss against Akron or llofstra ren­ders the DePaul game meaningless. All season long, Digger Phclp~ ha~ attempted to lead a
1 s-3 ~~~~ 
crusatk against Big Ten ofticiab. He t:\'en paid a \·isit to By winning twice on tht· road over the weekend. tht· to Commi~sioner Wayne Duke's office in Chicago with Notre Dame women's baskt·tball team also put itself in proof of their incompetence on tilm, and claimt·d that 
an advantageous position fi>r an ~CAA bid..\llary D.'s "a lot ofother coaches agree with mt·." Irish erased an I H-point deficit Friday night to I)l·at · At the end oflast season, lowa·s Lute Olsen lambasted Bradley, and then count· hack to win a crucial ·IH-·1.., Big Ten referee Jim Bain, saying he "'should he put in 
I "ffiix Drink Special" I
I (Buy 1Drink -Get 2nd 1For 25¢) I
decision at Illinois State, one of ND's major rivab ti>r a jail'.' after calling a qucstionahk foul against the Haw­bid_ keyes at the buzzer which cost thcm a game at Purdut: 
Again, looking aht·ad (which got us in trouble during and subsequently the Big Ten championship.
1**** Hot Cheese Nachos SOc ***** 1 
ti>Otball season) the women could tin ish as well as 20-.., On •;aturday, anothn coach -Indiana's Bohhv _:_ which could mean an imitation to the :'>2-team Knight -went on a tirade aftt-r his tt·am's --t-6S victo~­
ovcr Northwestern. And ifyou-\T nc\t'r seen Knight get third n:ar in Di\·ision I. -mad, rest assured it is not a prt·tty .,ight 
~ I 
tournament. an incrnliblt-ft·at li>r a team in onlv its 
.~ Go ND Basketballers, Beat Akron I 
Notre Dame has two things going fi>r them. First, the ' "Oilkiating in tht· Big Ten is 1he worst J'n-seen in 12 ~k:~,~~>~~~~;~;;~~~-~AC(;.:;~c~J}•~:::>.c:;l·~~:c~::~;:~»;~;;.~~•:.<:~•!j strength of its schedule: six of :\/D's seven losst·s have years." Knight said. "It'~ deteriorated ~> far. ifs the 
STUDENT AID It takes more than brains to go to college._ It takes money. For tuition, room and board, and' books.
,_ 
The Army College Fund is designed to help you get that money for college while serving your country. 
If you qualify, you can join the Army College Fund when you join the Army. For every dollar you put in, Uncle Sam puts in five. Or more. 
So, after just two years in the Army, you can save up to $15,200 for college. After three years, up to $20,100. 
To get your free copy of the Army College Fund booklet, call or visit your local Army Recruiter. It could be the most important book you ever read. 
SGT Hamilton 234·4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 


Tuesday; February 22 -An Experience You'll Never Forget-
It's M*A*S*H* 
NITE
-~ 
at Daniel'$ Den Lounge 
Assorted gifts and cash prizes for the most original MASH uniforms 
75¢ glass of beer; $3.00 a pitcherplus all your other favorite drinks 
Dance to the fantastic sound of "the Phoenix Band" from 9:30 to 2:00AM NO COVER CHARGE 
... 
been to Top 20 opponents. 
Second, and more important, since tht· AOC is the sight of the ,\lideast lkgionals, the NCAA commiltl:e is dying to get ~otre Dame into the tournament some­how. Attn st·cing over ·t,OOO people show up li>r Loubiana Tech, till" committet· sees dollar signs at till" possibility of tlu-Irish hosting thl'ir own regional. 
Now, the way the women's tournament is set up, ND would he seeded in the bottom I<>. and would have to win a first-round game on the road, probably against a Top 20 team, to advance to the regionals. 
A tough task. indeed. But this weekt·nd showed that worst basketball otliciating of any conference. Thcv"rt· incompctull. They're making a trave,ty for tht· kitb who plav it. 
"They're paid more than anvhodv, hut tht·\· don't un­dnstand the gamL-. They don;t kn(;W what t~> hx>k for. Five limt·s this season, I tiJUnd they didn't n-cn know the rules." . 
Knight's suggestion to send the rcti:rces to a summer camp, an idea proposed by l'hdps sn-cral months ago. makes sense. llopcfully now that l'hdps h;L'> supporter" like Knight in his corner, mayhe people will begin to take notice. 
Throbbing head? 
Quaking body? Has Fast. .. Free 
Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive 
Delivery 
yourself with a well­rounded meal from 
Call us. 
Domino's Pizza. We'll help smooth the wrinkles 277-2151 out of your day. 1835 S. Bend Ave. Domino's Pizza Plaza 23 Center 
® Delivers.'" 
Open for lunch Ask about our party 11 am-1 am Sun -Thurs. discounts. 11am-2am Fri. & Sat 
©1983 Dom1no's P1zza. Inc. Coke/ 16 oz. cups 
r···············------., 
1 Only 1
For a 16" 1-item pizza 
I plus 4 cups of Coke! I Coupon value $2.25. I$7• 49 (Tax not included) I 
Good Mondays only. Expires in 2 weeks. 
I 
Fast, Free Delivery 
I
1835 S. Bend Ave. 
I
Plaza 23 Center 
I
Phone: 277-2151 
I 
Our drivers carry ~ss than $20.00. 1 Umited delivery area. 
II. I 
1
29832t2sso I 
L•••••••••••••••••••••.J 
... 
IheO~rver============================~=========== 
~~~~~==========================M=o=n=d=ay='=··F=e=br=u=ary==2=1='=1=9=8=3===pa=g=e=l=l 
Bloom Coun 
lltf/WIIE/?£'5 7Ht Pr/NCHUN£ Of MY 
FAWJI?rrE CCildC 
STRIP, 8U8...' CIVYt WNN, 
\ / SIR, ANI7 
·~ IU.,ING: 
c; 
OCCA510NAl.!X WHOJ 
W£ FIND AN OBJECT!ONAPU 
PASSAGe IN A COMIC WHICH Ml01if ~~laY OFFt.NI7 OUR IWJR~ 5tN5mV£ R£AD£R5. 
WI'-SIMPl-Y 
''WHI-rt IT Ol!f." 
'\ 
The Daily Crossword 


Berke Breathed 
Campus
"fl-lr:\J "~'I f , :·II 
1.. ' "" ·~ )··
I 
•12: 
I 'i p.m. Workshop, "Crosscultural 

•1 
:.)0 p.m. -Writer's Workshop, Sophomore Literary Festival. Susan Sontag. Lihrary Lou:tge •-'1:20 p.m.-Physics Colloquiun:. "Giuebalb­A New Form of Hadronic \'tarter." I • .\marjit S. Soni. 1 I H NSH 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting of the Stude; t Senate, 2c LaFortune Student Center •-p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "The Crime of .'vt. Lange," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•7:.'>0 
p.m. -Reading, Sophomure Literary Fes­tival. Edward Abbey, Library Auditorium 

•H 
p.m. -Basketball, ND \ten vs. Akron, ACC Arena 

•H 
p.m. -lecture, "Christianity Challenges from Asia," Dr. Raymond Panikkar. 122 Hayes Healy 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Hitlerjunge Quex," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 


Economic~:  Ethnocentrism in Developmental  
Studie~."  Dr.  Raymond  Panikkar,  _>,~2  
O'Shaughnessy Ball  

T.V. Tonight 
Photius 
HEY KID, YOW< FLY'S ;.OPEN It
/'/ .. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
Sp.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
IOp.m. llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12p.m. !2:30p.m. 
16 M-A-S-H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Little House A New Beginning 22 CBS Special: Is This Goodbye, Charlie 
Brown> 28 That's Incredible 34 Front Line 22 Square Pegs 16 Monday Night at the Movies 
22 M-A-S-H 
28 ABC Monday Night Movie 
34 Great Performances 
22 :'>lewhart 
22 Cagney and Lacey 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tonight Show 
22 TrapperJohn and Columbo 
28 ABC News Nightline 
28 The Last Word 
16 Late Night With David Letterman 
The Far Side 

..a. 
< 
ACROSS Bread additive 
6 Landed 
10 Kind of bath or brain 
14 Oklahoma 
Indian 15 Elegant 16 Lima is 
here 17 Everywhere 20-culpa 21 Burl or 
Charles 22 Twist, for 
one 23 Washes 25 Merchants 26 Maureen or 
Nancy 
28 Rugged ridge 29 "Tempest" character 
30 Dour 
31 U-boats 
35 Sort 
36 City on the Rhone 37 FOR org. 38 Hopper's 
milieu 40 Draw a -on 41 French sculptor 43 Hewrote "Peer Gynt" 
45 Cylindrical and taper· ing 
46 She, e.g. 
Friday's Solution 
18 Tied 19 Map for 
sites 24 Epoch 25 Plumbed 26 Protective 
bar 27 AGardner 28 Part of 
E.A.P. 30 Not at all 
experienced 32 Attempted 33 Young 
herring 34 Rational 36 In a fool· 
ish way 39 Conclusions 41 Certain 
refunds 42 Mine 
material 44 Seethe 45 Soapstone 46 Preen 47 Richards 
of tennis 48 Modern painting 49 Italian 
city 51 Horrible 53 Money in 
the pot 54 Addict 56 Debtor's 
mark 57"-Yankee Doodle..." 
: WHATDOESTHE . ! 
! STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE ! 
:CHEAPER PR/CES... Save24-32-fflistprices! HAV£ FOR ME? : : MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.5orcomparea• :. : S8.991ist) : : CUT-OUTS... s2.98-S5.98 : : GREAT SELECT/ON... SpringstNn, Fogelberg, Steveie : e Nicks, Christopher Cross, Moody Blues, Pot Senator, Journey and • e many, many more... • : ALSO... recordedondblanktopesovoiloble. :
•e CONVEN/ENCE... TheNDSURecordStoreislrxated •• 
a on the Main Floor ofLaFortune. • : Plus-orderedalbumstakeonlyone wnk to arrive! : 
............................................................ 
49 Sword 50 Patch 51 -lizard 52 Greek 
letter 55 Everywhere 58 Bare 59 Cut of pork 60 Waxelo· 
quent 61 Caresses 62 Arizona 
city 63 Old World falcon 
DOWN 1 Lather 2 Capri, e.g. 3 Guitar's 
relative 4 Self-esteem 5 Broadway 
offering 6 "-moi le deluge" 7 Quite a few 8 Somewhat: 
suff. 9 Proposi· tions 1 0 Exploding meteors 
11 "-a Dream" (King) 
12 Kitchen tool 13 Active people 
The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your Roommate Headquarter 
Stay on campus and save $$$ by letting ua take cue of your flower nHda 
Dial •-v-M-s (1&&7) 
10 place an ortler 
-


,_______,.-_....,____r-•=-•=....,-------··---.....-,......--------r.-..----~-----~-----~·-~--­'• 
Monday, February 21, 1983-page 12
S~orts 
Big weekend for women 
Dougherty stars in pair of wins 
By MIKE SULLIVAN The major reason for the Red­"We failed to make an offensive Sports Writer birds' success was all-American adjustment," explained DiStanislao, Cathy Boswell and she did not wait "so we called a timeout and 
NORMAL, Ill. -Three times too long Saturday to show the Irish straightened out the problem." Laura Dougherty's shot bounced off why she deserved the honor. She The adjustmenr seemed to get the the rim. When it tlnally fell through scored eight of ISU's tlrst 12 points, Notre Dame offense back on track as with nine seconds left in the game keeping the Redbirds even with the reserve center Carrie Bates led a Sawrday, the Notre Dame women's Irish. surge that brought the·lrish within a 
basketball team had its biggest win Notre Dame, coming off an excel­point with three minutes left. tJfthe year, 48-47, over Illinois State lent second-half peri(Jrmance the The stage was then set for the in Horton Field House. night before against Bradley, carried heroics of Dougherty. 
The victory pllls the Irish in com­some of its momentum into the ISU With 4'1 seconds left and the Irish mand of their own destiny as far as game. However, some cold shooting down by three, 4 7-44, Dougherty an NCAA Tournament bid goes. The did not allow them to pull away to a was fouled. She made both of her Redbirds, who lost to Louisiana good lead. shots to make it a one-point game. Tech last week by only I 5, were one With both teams having trouble Illinois State had a chance to put of the major obstacles for a Midwest on offense. the game turned into a the game out of reach, but Boswell 
berth. With another obstacle, In­tough defensive battle, with the Irish made one of her few mistakes of the diana, coming to the ACC for the last holding a 26·21 lead. game and was called for a charge. game of the season, the Irish should The tight defense contined in the Notre Dame then called a timeout just have to win their final four second half, but with a little more with 18 seconds left and set up a play games for a bid. than 14 minutes left, Illinois State designed for either a Dougherty 
"This was the biggest win of the took the lead for the first time since jump shot or a shot inside by Mary year," said Notre Dame coach Mary early in the game. Beth Schueth. Dougherty ended up DiStanislao, "mostly because this is The Irish then missed some easy taking the shot from the foul t line an important time of year and a chances for baskets and had some with three·ptayers around her. tournament hid is on the line. Also turnover problems, allowing the "I was looking for Schoothie 
because we're coming off a tough Redbirds to move out to the biggest 
See WOMEN, page 8
weekend (the 42-point loss to lead of the night, 41-32. Louisiana Tech) and it's good to win away from home over a very good team. 
"This is the first game that we've 
Nation's No. 1 scorer 
won that we weren't supposed to win. It's a credit to the kids." Illinois State, even after losing its 
leads Zips against ND 
last two games to good teams, was leading the Gateway Conference By RICH O'CONNOR point bombs, show the Manstleld, and had lost some close games to Sports Writer Ohio native with an average of 28.5 
· highly-ranked teams like Old points and a narrow lead over South 
Dominion and Tech. After two weeks on the road, Florida's Charlie Bradley, and last Notre Dame brings its 14-8 record year's leading scorer Harry Kelly back home to the friendly confines from Texas Southern.
•• of the ACC to face Division II power ]akubick has led UA in scoring in Akron. Tipoff is slated for 8 p.m. 45 of 46 games, 56 of 58, and 66 of tonight. 83 games in his career. He has hitleers split series with No.4 OSU Playing for the third time in four double figures in 76 contests and has 
days, the Zips will bring a 13-1 0 not scored less than twenty points By ED DOMANSKY words were being exchanged. Co­managed to stay on top until record, 7·5 in the Ohio Valley Con­this season while connecting on 54 Sports Writer captain John Higgins came off the separated by officials. ference (fourth place), and the na­percent of his field goals -amazing 
Notre Dame bench and was prompt­A total of 32 players ended up on tion's leading scorer, Joe Jakubick, since almost all of Jakubick's shots 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -The Notre ly greeted with a shove from State's the ice during the incident. into tonight's game. are from over 17 feet. Jakubick is Dame hockey team earned a split Bruce Tillotson. Higgins wasted no After a 25-minute delay, order was But don't get your hopes up for a also the Zips leader in steals and as­this weekend in their series with time in showing Tillotson that he restored, but not until four players dream matchup withJakubick facing sists. Ohio State. The Irish were 6-3 vic­was not happy. Almost immediately, were given game misconducts. John Paxson one-on-one. In the Ak­"Jakubick ranks with the nation's tors on Friday, but a total turn­he had Tillotson's sweater over his Gone from the game were State's ron and Notre Dame defensive best scoring machines," says Irish around on Saturday found the leers head and was punching away. While Napierala and Tillotson along with schemes, neither player will match coach Digger Phelps. "He's hit on the short end ofan 8-I score. that was going on, Notre Dame's Higgins and Ely for the Irish. Both up, at least for long stretches, against double figures in 76 of his 83 career 
Overshadowing the entire Steve Ely was battling two Buckeyes. State players, as well as Higgins and the other. games. That's amazing. We'll have to 
weekend were penalties. Agrand to­As he was exchanging punches with Ely, were forced to sit out Saturday's It won't matter. With Paxson and put the clamps on him. But they tal of 64 penalties for 164 minutes Bob Napierala, Napierala's game; Ely, who picked up his second Jakubick on the same floor, the have a lot of other people who can were called against both teams. teammate Gord Rivington was busy disqualification of the season (the crowd will see two ofthe top players hurt you." 

Notre Dame had 37 for 96 minutes, pulling at Ely's leg. Despite being first coming at Western Michigan) in the game in action. while Ohio State received 27 for 68 outnumbered, Ely, like Higgins, got will also miss this friday's game Jakubick has already eclipsed his minutes. Alarge number ofpenalties the better ofhis fight. against Illinois-Chicago as a result. total of 594 points last season -a were the result of a bench-clearing These two altercations were just Atotal of48 penalty minutes were season that gained him honorable brawl in the first period of Friday's the main events, however, as assessed in the brawl, 24 to each all-America honors from The As­game. numerous side events were also in side. sociated Press. The 6-5 guard has 
Friday's Irish victory before a sell­progress. Notre Dame's Steve With the teams skating three a been scoring at a rate of nearly 31 out crowd of 1,550 ended a nine­Bianchi, in an effort to aid Ely, gave side, OSU's Bob Grull tied the score points a game, with the three-point game winning streak for the up seven inches of height, but at 1-1. But the Irish came right back basket in the OVC. Buckeyes and was only their second showed his strength as he wrestled NCAA statistics, which do not take loss in 21 games. The Buckeyes, 6-I Rivington away from Ely, and See HOCKEY, page 9 into account Jakubick's 52 three-ranked No. 4 nationally, had hoped to edge closer to league-leading Bowling Green. 
After totally outplaying the Buckeyes in Friday's game, Satur· 
First round ofBengal Bouts over 
day's contest proved to be a frustrat­ing experience for the Irish as nothing seemed to go right. The 
The 53rd annual Bengal Bouts sions, though both tights were split decision over senior Joe Buckeyes came out flying and held a 
started yesterday, with fierce ac· very eventful. In a real slugfest, Giglia and senior Dave Odland 5-0 advantage just five minutes into 
tion in all of the weight classes. senior John Conaghan defeated TKO'd juniorJohn foley at :57 of 
joejakubick 
the second period. Penalties also 
There were three fights in the Rob Desiato, and freshman Ed­the third round. 

plagued the Irish as the officials, in 
135 pound weight class, all en­mond Kelly knocked down soph· At I 55 pounds, the action con­
One of those people is 6-5 sopho­
an attempt to prevent an incident 
ding in unanimous decision. omore Ed Gavagan on the tight's tinued as senior Joe Mezzapesa 
more guard, Wayne Pierce. 
similar to Friday's all-out brawl, 
Sophomore Mike Latz defeated tlrst punch and continued to won on a split decision over 
Last season, Pierce took Moberly 
called the game very close. Five of 
junior John Jahoda, pounding defeat (;avagan. senior :vi ike Mitri and sophomore 
Junior college in Missouri to a 33-6 
the eight Buckeye goals came on 
him with left hooks and good In tht: I ·15 poutH.l class, fresh· Mike A. Sullivan defeated fresh· 
record before: transfering to L:A. The 
powerplays. 
combinations. Junior Mike Dan­man Jeff MasciopiniO won a split man Rkk Alexander with a TKO 
New York native has been averaging 
Friday's action was fast and hard­
durand outlasted Mike Aiello. a decision over graduate student at :5~ ofthe second round. 
I 0.8 points and -1.0 rebounds a game 
hitting right from the start. The only 
freshman, after each received a Jay Coli.·man in a llurry-lllled In the 165 pound class, Mike 
as the second guard for the Zips. 
problem was that the officials failed 
standing eight count. Tony three rounds. In the: othn tight at ~ullivan. a senior. won a unani­
Another reason Akron is not a one 
to notice numerous cheap shots. but 
Bonacci. a junior, ended with a this weight. graduate 'tudt·nt mous decision over sophomort· 
man team is 6-6 forward Rick Acord. 
several early roughing penalties in­
flurry, as he defeated freshman Hugh ( ;ritlith bloodied Ed :\lartv \lasias. with ~ullivan 
A transkr from Rio Grande Collegt·. 
dicated that things were heating up. 
Mike Coash. Round thrt·e was ctll (irogan on his way to an un.mi· bleeding from the nose and the 
the sophomort· is Akron's second 
With the Irish leading 1-0 on a 
Bonacci, as he landed a number ,. · mous dt·cision. chc:ek. 
long range threat. The findlay, Ohio 
goal by John Deasey. it was at the 
of hard lefts to Coash's head. Two excellent fights high· At I~o pounds. .\like .\lc(iuire 
native has connected on 3-thret· 
9:1-1 mark that everything broke 
In the I-tO pound class. thne lighted the I50 pound da~s. as dd(:ated Joe Wiegard and Doug 
point tleld goals in conference play. 
loose. 
were two more unanimous dcci· .\-like .\lana. a frc~hman, won a .'vlaihakr otHia.,tnl Tom Kdh·. 
See MEN, page 8
While the teams awaited a fa(;eoff. 
-
~·~-------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------__J 

