MBA forum -page 5 

VOL XVIII,-NO. 49 the inuc:pc:mknt stuuent newspaper serYing notn dame and saint mary·.~ WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1983 

Flanner juniors Tom White and Kurt Shinn Hall. The leaves have been allowed to accumulate whoop it up in the leafpiles outsideNorth Dining since no alumni are expected this weekend. 
Students ;allotted only forty tickets of 5000 fc>r Penn State game 
By KERRY HAVERKAMP Notre Dame received the usual living in the area to attend the game. News Staff amount of 5,000 tickets from Penn Students receive priority to home State for this Saturday's game. Penn games. 
Only 40 tickets are being allotted State receives the same total for its "The athletic department decides to students for this weekend's away games here. This is true even though on the number of tickets," Orsini game at Penn State, according to Penn State has a larger stadium. said, "but the University always tries Ticket Manager Steve Orsini. The reason can be traced to a con­to get as many as possible." 
Orsini explained that the stu dent tract which was drawn up, agreed body annually receives 200 tkkets upon, and signed by both schools. Student Union Social Activities for one away game. This year the The number ofseats in each school's Organizer Laurene Powers said game chosen was Purdue , and stu­stadium is subtracted from the num­more tickets were desired to make dents received 150 additional tick­ber ofstudents attending the Univer­transportation arrangements ets for that game. sity. The number arrived at simpler, but 40 tickets was the limit. 
Tickets are usually given ou for following these calculations is the The ticket lottery was advertised in 
games at Michigan, Michigan :;tate, number then used to determine The Observer on the day of the lot­
or Purdue because of their dose what percentage of tickets go to tery. Seven hundred people signed 
proximity and easier accessibility. alumni, the opposing school, and up, but only half of the tickets have 
Yet, the Student Union had con­other people affiliated with the been claimed by winners so far. 
tacted Orsini and expressed an in­school. 
terest in obtaining tickets to the Though Penn State has a larger Tickets were divided up propor­
Penn State game for students. stadium, it also has a larger student tionally, with seniors receiving the 
Orsini was only able to obtain 40 body than Notre Dame, and conse­largest percentage. Powers believes 
tickets, enough for approximately a quently the two school's calcula­this is due to students' difficulties in 
busful ofstudents. Although tht: Stu­tions are practically equal. getting transportation to the game. 
dent Union took the tickets, it did Notre Dame's allottment of Andy Tucker, Ombudsman, ·said 
not wish to organize a bm; for tickets to any away game is dis­no formal complaint has been sub­
transportation to the game, Grsini tributed to alumni rather than stu­mitted as yet, although there has 
said. dents, because it is easier for alumni been a lot ofgriping. 
House votes on stopgap money b~ 1 
Associated Press Democrats, who control the House, will cost money." offered the amendment providing a "States and localities arc unable to 
WASHINGTON Democratic total of S997. 7 million for 16 domes-bear the added burden due to leaders, arguing that domestic tic programs. revenue shortfalls in their current spending cuts urged by President House Majority Leader Jim fiscal year, the reduced attractive­
Reagan have gone too far, sought Wright, D-Texas, offering the ness of municipal bonds and yesterday to tag an extra S1 billion amendment on behalf of the depressed property values in many for education and social service!; to a Democratic leadership, said it was places," Wright said. stopgap money bill in the House needed to restore "money that has The amendment was offered to 
The House cleared the wa} for been harshly trimmed away from legislation to continue funding considering the extra money after programs that we consider the very through Feb. 29, 1984 for depart-voting virtually along party J, nes, heart and soul of this American sys-ments and agencies whose regular 233-169, to accept legisl;,tive tern ofours." fiscal 1984 appropriations have not ground rules allowing the am~nd­The move, which is unlikely to be yet been enacted into law. A similar ment to be offered. accepted by the Republican-stopgap bill already in place expires 
Democrats said the money wnuld controlled Senate, also provided an at midnight Thursday. fall within spending targets opportunity to tweak Reagan for his A veto fight between Congress Congress set for itself earlier this rhetoric on behalfofU.S. education. and the White House over the year,but the president would likely "Everyone, including the prcsi-domestic spending amendment or view it as a "budget buster." dent, agrees that our schools other provisions that may become 
. · • • .A.1? part ofan effort to rest6r¢:sl,ine . ·desperately-. need improveme.nt," part of tb<:· .h;gi!'{afi,pn_·~.--~ !110VC:s · of the spending cuts Reagan · Wright· ,s;~id befo.r{.: the. House con-through Col)gres~<c<)uld 11,-av~~thc·af­muscled through Congress during vened :rm:sday., :·~(n;J(.~t. evt;cy.OJl.P, , .fected agencies· t-echnioaUy without his first two years in office, recognizes that the improvements money. 
Demonstrators protest invasion of Grenada 
By BRAD COURI marched to PRA headquarters and PAUL McGINN •vhere the group was fired upon. Bis­News Staff l1op was arrested and then executed 
vith labor union leaders. 

Demonstrators yesterday Pomerleau. arguing against the protested the United States invasion restriction of the press in Grenada of Grenada and called for a more by the ll.S.. stated that "we need democratic U.S. foreign policy un­freedom of information and protest­der a banner which read: ing this does not make us smug "NEGOTIATION NOT INVASION!" know-it-ails." He said this type of 
Terming the invasion "a dress re­secrecy should not he employed hy hearsal for Nicaragua and El Sal­a government which should "have vador," Father Claude Pomerleau, respect for freedom ofinformation." director of the Latin American Area Pomerleau called for a "foreign Studies Program, told the I SO per­policy we can be proud of' which sons gathered at the steps of would promote economic trade LaFortune Student Center the rather than force and violence. He success of the mission might en­cited numerous examples of ad­courage President Reagan to send mirable U.S. domestic values and troops to Central American nations said "it is not unreal to have a foriegn which the U,S. considers unfriendly. policy which reflects these values." 
Pomerleau said the U.S., by invad­Some persons in the audience, ing Grenada, only condoned the however, voiced support for the type of violence which the U.S. had Reagan administration. accused the Peoples Revolutionary Joseph Dolan, a senior ·theater Army ofcommittin~. "Ifwe object to major, said that the U.S. killing of 12 left-wing thugs, we should not act mentally retarded patients, though like right-wing thugs," he said. tragic, was unavoidable because 
The PRA, kd by General Hudson members of the PRA had used the 
Austin, took control ofGrenada Oct. hospital as a base from which to fire 
13 and placed then-Prime Minister at U.S. Marines. 
Maurice Bishop under house arrest. Dolan also said that a newly con-
After being freed by supporters on 
see PROTEST, page 5

Oct. 19, Bishop and his comrades 
Reagan parts for Asia:f predicts stronger tie~; 
Associated Press recapturing that spirit. Here in 
Alaska, you never lost it." 

ANCHORAGE, Alaska -President Reagan told his Air Force 
Reagan, heading for six days of trade audience at Anchorage that "you are 
and defense talks in Japan and South the first line of defense," a role un­
Korea, predicted yesterday that the derscored by the Soviet Union's 
United States would forge vastly shooting down ofa Korea 
stronger bonds with Asian nations, with 269 people aboard on Sept. 1. 
which "have the Yankee spirit we The route Reagan was flying to 
once called our own." Tokyo corresponds closely with the 
Reagan spoke to several thousand one from which the Korean jetliner 
airmen and their families who strayed when it was shot down, al­
crowded into a hangar at snow­though Air Force One was flying at a 
shrouded ElmendorfAir Force Base, different altitude. 
where the president made a brief Before he left Washington with 
refueling stop en route to Tokyo. his wife. Nancy, the president 
The next century, Reagan said, pledged that the United States will 
could see "vastly expanding be "a reliable partner for peace and 
economic, political, and cultural stability" in Asia. 
bonds with these countries" of nor­"We make this journey as ambas­
theastern Asia and the Pacific. sadors for peace and prosperity be­
"I believe we will witness a wave tween the citizens of our lands," he 
of productive and creative en­said at a departure ceremony at the 
deavors improving the quality oflife White House. 
on both sides ofthe Pacific," he said. The trip will focus attention on 
"The peoples ofthe Pacific under­differences with Tokyo over trade, 
stand hard work," Reagan said. U.S. hopes for higher defense spend­
"They are not afraid of technology ing in Japan, and the Soviet military 
nd innovation. They have the threat to Asia. Another goal is to un-
Yankee spirit we once called our 
own. We are in the midst of see VISIT,page 4 
Parent reelected mayor; Regan captures 11 percent 
On the basis of unofficial results, Roger Parent, D., was reelected 
mayor ofSouth Bend in yesterday's election. He held 61 percent of 
the total vote. Howard Goodhew, R., re<:eived 36 percent and 
Kathryn Brookins, American Party, 3 percent. 
Notre Dame student Douglas Regan lost his bid for Republican at 
large, garnering 11 percent of the vote and finishing fifth out ofsix 
contende_r~ for three spots on the South Bend city council. , , , 
In Mishawaka, Re'j:i. Robert C. Beutter led his opponent Wilfiarh G. 
' • • ~ , ' •jlo-•

· Huys, D., ·i,y'rheslim margin of i 40 votes wlth.l00 p~rce·n't. of tile . . vote unofficially.r~l'tfi4->~e ·~ . . ' . ' ' ' . . , . 
The Observer Wednesday,November9, 1983-page 2 
In Brief · 
11lree Clayton, In.d., men bdng held on tederal charges of manulacturing and possessing an t•xplosin: device may haVl' pl:mnt·d to take over thdr community of ""00 residents hy force, ac<:ording to court testimony. Raw leigh Wilson, Jay II. Wright and Shane Pringle arc charged with tht· manufacture: of a bomb. A li:dcral agent tcstitkd about thc takcovcr plan in a hond hcaring, U.S. Magistrate: Thomas J. Faulconcr said yc:stcrday. "One: of the: wit· nc:sst·s (Jamc:s Quc:arry. a trcasury agcnt for the: l'.S. Alcohol, Tobac­co ami Firc:arms division) tcstiticd that there was a plan to take: over tht· town," Faulconer said. "That was the only reference, hut I assume: they have: t•vidcncc. The investigators had an inf(>rmant working with them and she: wa..' hugged, so I imagine: thc:y have: the: whole thing on tape:." Thc trio w:1s arrc:sted on Thursday and author­ities claimed they made a pipe homb to usc: against a fc:dc:ral inform­ant, oftkials said during Monday's bond hearing hc:fore Faulconc:r. 
Thcrt· wa..' no information on the purpose: of the: alleged takeovc:r r-rovided by authorities. -AP 
i~l~~·t=~.~~:~n!~~~rr~~ 
input from snH.knh about cunpu., t·n·nts. 'llll' .,ur.'t'\ will ht· gin·n in on.ler to t1nd out which l·n·nh .,tudcnh alll'IKI. \\hat their mam source ofintimnation i.,, <Uld \\hat kind ofl·n·nt-. 'tudcnt., would like tl> ~T in the future.< :<>-l'X \\ill he culcdll'tllt M.l.t\ <Uld ll>lll<>rn >W hc­cau~· of till' sur.·cy -'/be OIJS£'11'Cr 
The Board of Governance ot '-aim .\tary's an­nounct·s a studelll activities-sponsornl non-alcoholic t·ocktail party to ht· hdd tonight hdi>n· till" Tlwatrt· ofthe lkafs pnti>r~nancc Tht· cocktail party will take place bel\\ tTn ~-~:,-;p.m. in the< hamdt·on Room in llaggar Ct·ntcr. There will abo he a print ·'·de in l.c:\tans lobby today from I 0 to ·l. -The ( )/Jsert'<'l' 
Of Interest ­
Q 

Paul Roche, adjunct professor and poct-in­rt·~idl·nl't' of thl' Program of Liberal Studil's, will gin· a poetry reading tonight at H in tht· :'>kmorial Library auditorium lounge. ){odie will rt·ad a poem entitled "In the Land of Legna: Images from a Fathcr Planet." l{odll', who~e poetry and short stories have appeared in ~cn·ral American and Brithh pl·riodicals, is author and translator of nearly twenty hooks induding, most rl'lTntly, "With Duncan <irant in Southl'fn Turkt·y," jointly publishnl hy lloneygkn Publish­ing Company and the l :nivcr~ity of Notre Dame Pres~. -Tbe ()IJ. 
The Department ofMusic will pre~cnt Penelope 
Jcn~l·n in ,1 guest voice recital tonight at H: I'i in the Anncnl1l-rg Auditorium of the Snitl' Mu~l'Uill. Ikr program will consist entirclv of ~ong~ by Johanne~ Brahm~ in honor of his birth. Jensen's accon~­panht will he .\lichael Zcngl· Tlw concert is frt-c and open to the public. -Tbe Ohsert'<'r 
Former ambassador to Central and South 
Ameri<:an nations, Lawrence Pc:zzullo, will dis<:uss "Ct·ntral America: 
U.S. Policy and tht· Roll-of the: Church" at a talk at 4: IS this after­noon. II is appearance: in Room I IS of the: Law St·hool, open to the public, is co-sponsored hy the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the: Institute for Pastoral and Soda! Ministry. Now haseJ in New York as executivt· director of Catholic RclicfScrviet:s, he is the former he:ad of the l i.S. emhassy in Nicaragua and played a central role in negotiating an end to the civil war. Pezzullo earlier st·rvc:J in embassies at CiuJad)uarez, Mt·xico, Saigon. LaPaz, Bogota, and Guatc:mala. After a yc:ar of studies at the Natonal War Collc:ge in 
I972 he wa..~ namt·J deputy director of tht· Office of Central American Affairs and became special assistant to Amhassador-at­Largt· McCloskey in I974. lk was assistant secretary for Congres­sional Rdations in I9""<;. -Tbe 0/Jsen•er 
i Weather ·. ­
I . ' ­
The K of C fiasco: Epilogue 
The casual days of Saturday steak sales and wcd,end movie presentation~ finally have returned ro the: Knights ofColumbus. Caught in the middle ofa Septem­ber skirmish between a well-intt·ntioncd Student Sc:natc and a fed-up de:an of students, Grand Knight Joe Anthony says his organization has emerged hoth wisc:r and c:ven better oft' hec.:ausc: of the publicity. 
"One good thing is that we rc:alizc we need to work more with school organizations," he says, suggesting that such organizations as C. I. L.A. might be ablt· to coor­dinate meetings or events with the Knights. But not parties. "Our hand~ arc tied" on that one, says Anthony. 
Thar the Knights would <:vc:n consider letting an yon<: else share their huilding seems admirable, considering the abusive letter the organization received from Dean of StuJ<:nts James Roemer which hint<:d that the: Knights might start looking for somewhere else to call home. 
"For thirtl·cn years, \\ l·'vc: hc<:n a model of student self-governm<:nt," says Tom Duffy, a mt·mhcr of the K of 
Mark Worscheh 
News Editor 


Enter Roemer, who picked up his paper and rc:ad that South Quad dorms would now be partying in the K ofC huilJing. Tirt·d of having to Jc:al with the prohlem of akohol in the building (Roemer banned it la..~t year), Roc:mer fired off a puhlic ktter which not only threatened thl· K of C with eviction hut also rehukcd the: Student Senate, essentially reminding them that the Senate is merely an advisory hody without legislative power. 
From that point, Tbe Obsen,er carried a total of three 
articks on th<: conflict. Th<: 
first covered th<: next Senate 
C. "The only prohlc:m the mc:l'ting, at which the Knights of Columhus has sc:nators voiced their disgust ever had was when we let with Roemcr's treatment of other groups in h<:rc." the resolution. The st·cond 
Yet, it was this very id<:a carrricJ an intervkw with that ignited the whole K ofC the officers of the Knights. controversy carlin this l~tll. and the third was a tlnal in· On Monday. Sept. 26 Stu· tervicw with Roem<:r. dent Senator David :\teA voy That Jo<:s st·em to be J pr<:sented and argunl for great amount of coveragt·, th<: pa~sagc of Rt·solution hut wa..~ it an "Obsen•er· 
I04. The resolution -created controversy," a~ rc:cognizcd the lack ofsocial was alleged in a letter to th<: space on the South Quad editor last Friday authored and the availability of spac<: hy McAvoy and co-signed by in the Knights of Columbus Anthony? building. It furthl·r sug­Hardly. 
Th<: Studc:nt Senate
gested that th<: KofC he able to rc:nt its space out to other groups for parties. given a numher ofr<:!'traints and con· trois. 
MeA voy says he was looking out for his constitul·ncy when he drafted the resolution; howen·r. a critical Jack of communication hetwn:n :\lcAvoy, the Knights and Roemer led to a \Try avoidable confrontation. 
According to Anthony, McAvoy waited until one hour bd(>re the meeting lx·fort· calling him to di~cuss the re~olution. "lk said that Wl' should pas~ this ami then go talk to Dean Roemer," says Anthony, adding that "I didn't even get a chance to read it until tht· nl·xt day." 
Howevn, Anthony says that at the timt· of the call he himself was not totally aware that the Knights could not let outside groups USl' the huilding for parties. Iknee, that night the St·nate passed the resolution, and the ~tory ran in 1/.?e Obsert•er the m·xt day indicating that the resolution passed, and that it had the support of the Knights. 
Quote ofthe Day 

"''m as mad as hell, and I'm not going 
to take it any morel" 

Howard Beale 
I bar•<• bands, urby aren't I nlnning this 
ship? 


mc<:ting was public. as was the: letter which Roemer released It> the press. In thl· SlOIJ' conc<:rning the ktter, all three: parties were inter­viewed, as th<:y were individually in following articles. Tbe Obsen•er certainly did not create the controvc:rsy surrounding a very poorly constructnl hill. 
In the ktter, the two an·u~e The 0/Jsert•er of helping destroy Resolution 10·1, a hill which they say would han· impro\Td social lite: and promoted rl·sponsihle al· coho[ usc. 
llow<:v<:r, as the hill was writtl·n, thest· nohk goals were hopelessly wrapped up in tht· idea of opening up the K of C, something which even author MeA voy says was "doomed from the start." 
Thl· Student Senate and :\kAvov IHTtktl to lkcidl· from the hcginning whether the hili would be a general one seeking to recognize problems on the South Quad. or whether the hill would hl· a splTiflc one seeking to get the Administration to nl·gotiate on the K ofC issue. 
The Observe1r Wednesday, November 9, 1983-page 3 
SMC blo(]~d donor drive sponsored by Red Cross, eight other group~ 
By MARGARET GRAY Life Commission, Nursing Club, allotted time period. 
News Staff Biology Club, student government, "The response has been great," Right to Life, Senior Board, the soph­says Cara Hageman, co­A blood drive sponsored by eight omore class, and Health Services. commissioner of CLC. "After two 
Saint Mary's organizations in con­For the past few days members of days 146 people were signed up." junction with the American Red these organizations have seated There are a few openings left for Cross will take place next week in themselves in the in the lobby ofthe Saturday. Because of the limited the Saint Mary's College infirmau, in Saint Mary's dining hall in hopes of number ofopenings, participation in the basement of Holy Cross Hall. signing up able donors for the drive. the drive was offered only to Saint 
The idea of having a blood drive Members of the Nursing Club wll Mary's students. If the goal had been 
was introduced by the Chrstian Life also be available to take the blood reached, the opportunity to donate Commission at Saint Mary's. pressure of those who come to give would have been opened up to However, the final number of blood. others. groups involved was expanded to in­The goal set by these organiza­
clude the American Red Cross md tions was 150 donors. This goal is The driv.e is . scheduled for Saint Mary's organizations. The eight the largest number of people that Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of organizations include the Christian could be accommodated during the this week from I to 4 p.m. each day. 
Shuttle still to stop at two halls 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTT said O'Donnell. changes. "The system seemed to News Staff Earlier this year, shuttle stops at work fine the first few weeks," said McCandless and Regina were Elizebeth Smith of McCandless. "It 
The shuttle will continue to stop. eliminated completely because they does irritate me that McCandless at LeMans and Holy Cross Halls, were taking up too much time and does have a stop, and I can't use it." according to Mary Ann O'Donnell, causing the shuttle to run off Sharon Hegg of Regina said, "To director of student activities at Saint schedule. me, it doesn't really matter, but Mary's. Stops at McCandless and Regina since the bus drives right by, I can't 
"We're honoring the students' re­will not be added to the schedule al­see why it doesn't stop." 
Roemer recommends 
quests ...by making sure that at though it would be convenient for O'Donnell emphasizes that when those two stops it is stopping at the students in those dorms. A major changes are made, they are an­correct time and waiting the time revision of the schedule would nounced by the Student Activities 
'firm hand' with guilty
that it is supposed to wait," cause more problems than it would Offices at Saint Mary's and Notre O'Donnell said. solve, said O'Donnell. She said the Dame. Posters, new schedules, and 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY board handle a casl· if it's pcrsonal,
"The only changes that were stops at McCandless and Regina notices in The Obseroer also 
NeU's Staff pastoral. or scnsitive... made over October break were cut­were unofficial stops, even though publicize changes. 
Bob Glcason. Judicial Coor­

ting out some of the stops at Uniyer­they were made last year. If the stops had been altered, stu­
Dean of Students James Roemer dinator, said concerning the issue,
sity Village, so it does not stop at Some students living in these dents would have been notified, she 
called for hall judicial hoards to "A lot of rectors han· hlTn ridingUniversity Village every time now," dorms were disappointed by those added. 
work with their renors and to treat herd on this clause." the guilty with a firm hand at last Tim l.avaruk. a Keenan llall hoard night'sjudicial Workshop. member. said. "The problem comes 
"The very best thing to do i~ tough from an unclear definition of what
HPC questions Observer budget 
:ove," Roemer said. the judicial hoard doc~. Thl· rector "Some rectors think all vou always has the po\\Tr to kl·l·p a case people do is subvert the system. away from the judicial hoard." Jcff By STEPHEN REIDY Fosmoe, also present. She ·cited They say that college pl·oplc have a Rade. a hoard member from
was the problem oflong lunch lines. News Staff advertising as one possible area of In an effort to help shorten lines be­peer pressure problem and that col­Cavanaugh Hall, said. "I thought conflict under the University budget tween 12 and 1 p.m., the administra­lege people never snitch on anothcr Dean Roemer spoke realistically 
The Hall Presidents Council ques­proposal. "What if their alchohol tion hopes to reschedule some college student," Rm·mer told the from the po~ition he ~its. In a way. he tioned Obseroer editors about the policies conflicted with our ads classes next semester. Several sec­crowd. probably talked down to u~. We real­problem of the unit budget syst<:m (policy)?" Fosmoe echoed tions would be combined into a "I met with all of the rel'tors last ly don't havc much power at all." and The Observer's independence at Worscheh's concern for editorial noon hour class, to be held in night. Basically what I said was that I G!cason said. however, "It is last night's HPC meeting. control in the future. Regarding auditoriums such as Washington personally am in favor ofhall judicial necessary for the rectors to have 
Obseroer News Editor Mark entry into the budget system, she Hall. boards. I think thl'y work." Roemer that discretion. /Jul.a<· gives the rec­Worscheh, on hand to answer qu·~s­said, "Once we take that step, we said. tors that discretion... tions, affirmed "the need for accoun­can't go back." The Council pledged support for This conflin between thl' judicial Dean Roeml-r ~aid the way to tability (of funds), for student input, Student body President Brian Cal­the Date Night sponsored by the boards and some rcl'tors has caused solve thc prohkm hl·twl-cn the rl-c­
and for a budget." However, he lahan said "editorial independence Knights of Columbus. Tentatively "a lot of judicial hoard~ to takl' the tors and thc judicial hoards is for the position that thcy should take a case boards "to establish a relationship
maintained his view that loss ofcon­is essential." He also said a pre­scheduled for Dec. 9 or 1 0, it will trol under the University budget sys­determined annual budget has im­include an Italian dinner and a to take it away from the rector," cx­with the rectors." tem is a potential threat. portance with regards to dance, with possibly a movie run­plained Rol'mer. Sistt·r Evelyn Booms, the only rec­
"We agreed to a third party aud1t," accounting. ning upstairs during the dance for "A rector," he said. "has the tor to attend the workshop. said, "It 
said Managing Editor Margaret Also brought up at the meeting those in need ofa rest. authority to rcfuse to lct a judicial would he hard for the hall judicial hoards to give rathl·r se\Tre punish· ment. It's looking at the reality ofthe situation."
NO CMUAN BAND 
Shc said she came to the workshop because she was not sure "who brings cases to the judicial

a~ MAKE YOU THIS OFFER. 
board and what its funnion b." In addition to l{oemer's ap­

Ifyou're a musician who's serious The Army has bands performing It's a genuine, right-now, imme­
pearance, the Judicial Council.

about performing, you should take a in Japan, Hawaii, Europe and all diate opportunity. 
composcd of the chairmen of each 

serious look at the Army. across America. Compare it to your civilian offers. 
hall's judicial hoard. conducted a 
mock trial to show hoard mcmbers how to handlc real casl·s. 

Army bands offer you an average And Army bands offer you the Then write: Army Opportunities, P.O. 
of 40 performances a month. In every­chance to play with good musicians. Just Box 300, North Hollywood, CA 91603. thing from concerts to parades. to qualify, you have to be able to sight­
ARMY BAND.
Army bands also offer you a read music you've never seen before and 
Bomb blast 

chance to travel. demonstrate several other musical skills. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 

hits Capitol 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -fBI agents combed through an estimated $1 million mound of debris yesterday as the Senate attempted business as usual in the wake of a bomb blast that ripped through a hallway and severely damaged a meeting room t near the chamber. Officials said the device was triggered by a wristwatch. 
"The Senate will not be deterred or intimidated," declared Majority Leader Howard H. BakerJr t ., R-Tenn as he held the Senate to a schedule which began at 9 am. EST. 
Baker said that had the Senate .. 'been'in ~e~s\6ifat'thetiin~-tlthe ex­
"·~' .r,r,J tii d;:,~:iJl .1/')",...'\'•'~ i"J ;·J~J'.,r,-.
see BOMB, page 5 
--·-----~--------··----· "---.t 


The Observer Wednesday, November9, 1983-page 4 
Factfinding delegation returns; reports large ammunition caches 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Rep. Elwood "Bud" Hillis, R-Ind .. back from a fact-finding mission to Grenada, says he found Soviet indoctrination of school children, anger toward com·­munism and enough ammunition to last the li.S. 82nd Airborn Division IO years. 
Hillis, who was a member of a Congressional fact-finding group that also included Indiana Rep. Dan Burton, said yesterday that "I came back with a very firm opinion that we have done the right thing." 
Evidence of Communist expan­sion wa'l both overwhelming and frightening, Hillis said in a telephone interview. 
"My bottom line conclusion is, if anything, the president understated the ca~e in Grenada," Hillis said. "The people there were really happy to see us. They looked at us as res­cuers." 
Capitol Building A bomb exploded late Monday night near the Hillis, who returned to Washing­
Senate chamber inside the building See related story on page 3. ton from Grenada Monday night, 
Andropov makes little headway 
A.'i.'iOCiated Press 

MOSCOW -Yuri Andropov took 
power vowing to overcome the 
Soviet llnion's economic inertia, to 
give the nation a new sense ofdircc· 
tion and to seek bettt·r relations with 
tht· West. 

One year later, the 69-year-old 
Andropov is in frail health, little 
headway has hcen made in improv­
ing the economy and relations with 
the West have seldom been worse. 
Andropov, named general 
sn:retary ofthe< :ommunist Party on 
Nov. I 2, 1982, has not appeared in 
puhlic for nearly thrt-c months. 11c 
cvt·n missed the annual Revolution 
Day parade Monday, prompting 
spt'l'ulation that he i~ seriously ill. 
J>cspitt· Andropov's medical 
problem~. some attempts to 
revitalize the country art· going for­
ward. including Amlropov's usc of 
rt·gional. Communist Party elections 
to weed out party hat·k~ from thdr 
long-hdd political ficfdoms. 

But with Andropov sif.:k and his old rival, Konstantin Chcrncnko, hack at the head of the Politburo during its rare public appearances, it is doubtful changt·s in the provincial party apparatus will ht· sweeping. 
To ram through the changes ht· 
wants, Andropov must install his 
own men in rq~ional party posts. 
Chl'fnenko, tht· st·nior national 
party st·crt·tary. reportedly ha~ 
sought 10 hlot·k such rt·visions and 
ha.., supported oftkials currt·ntly in 
powt-r in the pro,·inces. They, like 
the 7 2-yt·ar-old ( :ht·rnt·nko, owe 
their allcgiantT and johs to Leonid 
Brt·zhnt·v, Andropov's predecessor. 
Andropov appeared to offer a tough styk contra~ting with the in· al'tivity and drift of the laM years of Brczhnev's 18-year tt·nurc. 
Ont· of tht· first signs of his stylt· 
w a~ his decrtT on worker discipline, 
tht· cornt·rstonc of his plan to im· 
prove the t'l'onomv. 

In January, police and party offi­ciab hegan raiding bars, barbt·r shops. movit' theatt·rs and ordning slackers hat·k to work. Pun<:tuality on the job became a virtue 
But Andropov, his health declin­ing so rapidly that he required hospitalization in April, seemed unable to sustain the drive. 
Some Sovkt citizt·ns now call tht· campaign a joke. 
"Nothing's changed a bit. They ( tht· leadnship) didn't have the will to follow throu!o(h. I don't think anybody dot·s or will." said one Sovkt citizen who dedincd to ht· idcntifit·d. 
An extensive. widdy publicized drive against alcoholism wao; kiLmcb<:d .Scpl-L..Host;es CQIJW tirt· drunken workers without notifying their trade unions. Stiffer fines for drinking on the joh went into force. The police were ordered to be more vigilant to puhlic drunkeness in a country where the tax on liquor is said to account for I 2 percent of the national budget. 
The same day, a new, cheaper brand ofvodka hit store shelves, was quickly dubbed Andropovka and sold out. 
In one area, however, Andropov's resolve remains undiminisht·d -his campaign to hlock the NATO deployment of 572 new American medium-range missiles in Western Europe beginning next month. 
The ccnterpicct· of Andropov's foreign policy ha'l been to divide the NATO alliance, using the missile issue as the cutting tool. 

With the United States and Krem­lin each accusing the other ofintran­sigence at the missile reduction talks in Geneva, Andropov appears ready to order his negotiators to abandon the discussions once the deploy­ment starts. 
Will the walkout be for dramatic effect, lasting only until spring like the Americans and their NATO partners suggest, or will it mark a new militarization by the Kremlin and further belt-tightening for the populace as official Soviet sources claim? 
Addre.. -------­City ______ 
State ­
Zip 
Send check or morwy order to SCRUBS 

P.O. Box 595, Bethel Park, PA 15102 
Shirt, S, M, L, $ 9.95 Panta, S, M, L. $11.95 Set, S, M, L. $19.95 

Circle aize and write In the number of SCRUBS (Plus $1.50 for Postage and Handling) 

Talk to us about your future career in management. Twice. 
Ymr first opportunity comes when our representative comes to your campus on: 
You have a second opportunity by calling us directly so that you can discuss any as­pect of your management education with a member of our admission office staff. Use our toll-free number. We look forward to meeting you.~ 
~iio'/'84';;~s~~~oo/~5~:~i2~ 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT 
3 I 4 MALOl'T H A l l r T H A C ' 1{., • .N. \', . I , 4 .8, S l 


was one of I4 lawmakers who 
visited Grenada as part of a bipar­
tisan co111mission. The group's five 
Republicans and three of its nine 
Democrats have publicly an­
nounced their support ofthe Oct. 25 
invasion. 
The delegation left Andrews Air 
Force Base in Washington, D.C., 
Friday and returned to the Capitol 
Monday night. 
The Kokomo Republican said 
there was a shocking amount of 
weaponry stashed on the island, 
which he described as a scant 1SO or 
so miles from the South American 
mainland. 
"I never saw so much arms and 
ammunition," he said. "There were 
S.S million rounds. The division commander of the 82nd Airborn Division said it was I 0 times what he'd use in a year. 
Hillis said after visiting Jhe island and talking with people he feels American medical students there were in danger. 
"From everything we could see 
they hadn't physically moved in on 
them," he said. "But they wouldn't 
Jet them out. 
"I think there was a possibility of 
them becoming hostages," he said. 
"They had begun to put troops on 
the campuses. They had established 
strong points right across the road 
(from the campuses)." 
Hillis said that a reading primer he saw on the Carribean island wa'l quite different from American reading books. 
"Here, (in the United States) kids learn to read by reading Dick and Jane. These (Grenadian) kids were reading 'the revolution is good for us, the revolution is good for us.' We must understand what the other side is up to," he said. 
Hillis said the decison to prevent 
U.S. reporters from covering the first three days that troops arrived was "a close call," and that officials "probably should have lifted it a lot sooner." 
"The Russians were beginning to move in there," he said. "There were Bulgarians, North Koreans, even Libyans there. They had I2 Russian teachers in the school system." 
He said he wa'l shown books used to teach children reading. "Every other line was 'the revolution does 
this for us, the revolution does that for us,"' he said. "They were being 
indoctrinated,  politically  in­ 
doctrinated."  
Hillis  said  the  Congressional  

delegation wa., well-received. 

"We got an excellent reception," he said. "One man even wanted to know how to become a state. We met with two former members of the Communist government and they were quite critical,ofcourse. 
"But there's a great feeling against the Communists there right now," he said. 
lie said U.S. invasion forces did a good job. 
"They achieved their goals with a minimal loss of life and damage," he said. "We went up to the mental hospital that was hit. That was unfor­tunate. But it was next to a fort and there wa~ an army flag flying over it and there wa~ shooting coming from the building." 
• • .Visit 
continued/rom page 1 

derscore the United States' close tics with the two nations and a commit­ment to stand by them if they are threatened. 
A 90,000-man security force was mobilized in Japan for the presi­dent's visit. About SOO police were assigned just to inspect the building and grounds of the parliament, where Reagan will make an address Friday. 
In his departure remarks, Reagan said, "The Soviet shooting down of (Korean Air Lines Flight) 007, their continued military huildup in Asia -including the deployment ofSS20 missiles, are grim reminders to us: we live in a dangerous world." 
"I will reaffirm America's commit-· ment to remain a reliable partner for peace and stability in the region and the world," Reagan said. 
"And in both Tokyo and Seoul, we will look for ways to make the region even more stable and secure." 
Reagan said Japan and South Korea, along with the United States, "arc nations of the future. 


'' II 

_minutes from campus 
HairCut Shampoo Blow Dry & Condition 

54533 Terrece Lane, ­
South Bend (Across lrom Reg. $15·00 
Merlin's on S.R. 23) 
Now $8·50 with coupon

M 9-2 T, W 8:30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons Th 8:30-8:30 Fr 8:30-6:00 s 8:30-2:30 277-1691 272-0312 

WINNER OF THE TONY 
FOR THEATRE EXCELLENCE 
PERFORMS 
THE HERO WITH A 
THOUSAND FACES 
Amenca·s mosl remarkable lhealre pre· 
senls a com•cal. myth1cal producllon 
based on lhe book by Joseph Campbell 
CATCH THEM WHILE YOU CAN! 
TONIGHT Wednesday, November 9 BPM O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series 
and see 
··vou HEARAEVER)':W<>RD 

The Observer Wednesday, November 9, 1983-page 5 
MBA mini-forum attracts variet' of business schools and students ~ 
By KEVIN BINGER 
Copy Editor 
Another covey of Notre Dame stu· dents is considering MBA school and representatives from schools such as Boston College. Georgetown, USC and SMU will tlock to campus tomor· row to try to land their fair share. 
Career and Placement Services is sponsoring an MBA mini-forum tomorrow from noon to 4 p.m. on the second floor of LaFortune Stn· dent Center. Students will be able to meet with representatives from 32 schools across the country and to compare programs. 
"We've got a number ofvery pres· tigious schools coming," said Career and Placement Services Director Kitty Arnold. "This is a lot more con· venient than looking through I 50 different catalogs." 
"A lot of students think they may be interested in graduate work in business but they really don't know the acceptance requirements or ap· plication procedures." 
The forum is not restricted to senior business majors. All in· terested students are invited. 
"It's almost too late for a senior," said Arnold. "You have to take your GMAT and you have to have your transcript together. A junior who talks to these people now will get a leg up on the competition." 
MBA programs vary from school 
to school. according to Arnold. who 
said this forum will be a good oppor· 
tunity to shop around. 

Circle K CJlub sponsors MD rally 

Prof speaks on inflation 
KEITH E. HARRISON ,JR. Futures contracts essentially Staff guarantee that a future transaction will occur using today's prices and 
Complete protection from infla· interest rates, Wilmouth said. tion may soon be possible, accord· "Therefore," he added, "Futures ing to Robert K Wilmouth, contracts offer protection against president and executive officer of possible price or interest rate the National Futures Assosiation. changes." 
Wilmou t th, who spoke last night in Futures contracts were once only the Center for Continuing Educa· used in the farming industry, Wil· tion, was referring to a propos•:d mouth said. But a pending futures futures contract on the Consumer contract on the Consumer Price In· Price Index. <.lex would become "The ultimte 
hedge against inflation." 
The biggest problem with the futures contract industry is its image, Wilmouth said. "Some people see the futures market as being wild and wooly," he said. "Actually, it's as conservative as the stock market." 
Wilmouth was the second speaker in the Notre Dame Financial Institu· tion Series, which is being sponor ted by the Finance Club. The series con· eludes at 8 tonight with a lecture by Richard W. Dalrymple in the Center for Continuing 
Presents ... 

with Guest Appearances by 
I:UONNE WARWICK 
and former N.D. Quarterback JOE MONTANA TUIESDAY, NOV. 15th • 8 P.M. 
(Portions of .this show will be taped for a Nov. 23rd Bob Hope Television Special.) 
PRICES 

'11.50  '10.50  '7.50  
Floflt<, Plltfonn  Lo-Arena  Bleachers  
and Lop  

Tickets on sale at: 
SEARS (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City), ROBERTSON'S (So. Bend, Town & Country and Concord Mall), U. JOSEPH BANK (Main OHice), 
EI.KHART TRUTH, J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (LaPorte), WORLD RECORDS IG4:»shenl 
charity game of the season. Chair· man Roger Wilke anticipates as many as forty-eight teams participat· ing with one hour being allotted to each match-up. 
"Two collective teams, the blue and the gold, will be battling to score the most points in one full day. Imagine a final score ofH16-810, by ones," Wilke said. 
Celebrity referees will officiate and refreshments will be provided for participants. Students are en­couraged to attend and support their favorite team. 
"All that is needed is your group's support and their commitment to possibly play at all hours of the night," said Wilke. "So, send in your donations, give a little time, and help the victims of MD." 
Applications and donations should be dropped off at the Center for Social Concerns by Monday, Nov. 14. 

By DOLLY DUFFY 
News Staff 
Basketballs will replace books and Stepan Center will replace study lounges when the Circle K Club of Notre Dame proposes a distinctly different version for the well-known academic feat known as an "all· nighter." Beginning at 7 p.m. Satur· day, Nov. 19, teams will tip off in the first annual 24-hour Basketball Relay to raise money for the Muscular Dystrophy Association of South Bend. 
For a mimimum contribution of S30, any organization, group or dorm can be part of the longest 
continued from page 3 
plosion, there would have been "grave injury ... and, perhaps, loss of 
life to senators and staff." 
Although there was no structural 
damage to the Capitol, the blast all 
but wiped out a·large section of the 
corridor on the second -main ­
tloor, adjacent to the Senate cham· 
ber. In addition to shattering win· 
dows, splintering wood frames and exposing brick wall and pipe, the blast knocked the doors to Democratic Leader Robert C. Byrd's office off their hinges and destroyed several irreplacable paintings, including portraits of Daniel Webster and john Calhoun. 
COUNSELINE A service to the NO community 239·7793 HOURS: 4-10pm Mon·Thurs. CounseHne is a free. conftdential telephone service that offers professionally taped materials that cover a w1de varie~~5?!..~tudent concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Fne11dshrp BUIIdmg 7 Oealmg wrlh Conslrucltve Crrtrcrsm 8 Dealtng wrlh Anger 9 Understanding Jealousy and How to Deal wrth II 10 How to Say ··NO" 16 Becommg Open to ~hers 18 Datmg Skrlls 30 Am:lely and POS!Hble Ways lo Cope wrthll 32 How to Deal wl\h Lonlmess 33 How to Handle Fears 35 Bwldrng seH-Esteem & Confidence 37 Retaxmg Exercrses 38 Coptng wrlh Stress 39 Female Sex Rote-­Changes and Stress 44 learmng to Accepl Yourself 61 Whatrs Therapy & How to Use It 83 How to Cope Wilt: a Broken AelaiiOnShlp 85 Understandtog Gnel 90 Helpmg a Fnend 160 Early s1gns ol an Alcohol Problem 161 Responsible Dec1s•ons About Dnnkmg 402 Seii-AsserJ•veness 431 Wha11s Depress1on 432 How to Oealw1!h Depress1on 433 Depress ton as a l•le Style 478 Becommg Independent from Paren 479 Dealing wllh AlcohOliC Parents 491 SUICidal CrtStS 492 Recognw'lg Su1C1dal Potenllal mOthers 493 Help.ng Some_c:>_r-_.e 10 a Sutc1dal Cns1s  
Counsefine is a completely anonymous servoce offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239·7337 between 9·5 , : · ··CLIPAND·SAVE··_. • • L~----~--:--... -­~ ·--~-_._._. -----c~:;·, >  


However, the Senate chamber it· self was left intact, although a coating of dust throughout the chamber greeted maintenance workers in the morning. 
Byrd aide Mike Willard said damage could reach S 1 million. 
The FBI said the blast was caused 
by a "high explosive device with a 
delayed timing." Tom Griscom, an 
• • .Bomb 
aide to Baker, said "it was a wristwatch timer." 
Both chambers of Congress con· vened under unusually tight security. The second floor on the Senate side was sealed off to the public. As the Senate debated a military spending bill, members had to raise their voices to be heard above the sound of broken glass and masonry beingshoveled up only feet away. 
The visitors' galleries on the third floor and the entire first floor were re-opened to the public early yester· day. 
• • .Protest 

continuedfrompage 1 
structed airstrip may have indicated that Soviet-made jets could have landed on the Caribbean island. 
Michael Garvey, assistant director ofInformation Services, led a prayer in which he asked for "mercy on our power-crazed leaders," and pleaded that Americans "enkindle in our hearts a fierce love of reconciliation and a craving to see beyond our col· Iective delusions of politis, nationalism and ideology." Gan't:y concluded his own rt:tlections with the Prayer ofSaint Francis. 
The demonstrators also were led in song by joan and Ann Kellenberg who played "Biowin' in the Wind" and "Come Down Lord." 
The demonstration was sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's chapter of the Democratic Socialists ofAmerica. 
Student Union 

PRINTIN'G SERVICE. 
New· Replacing campus Press 
Bring camera-ready poster art 
-to S.U. Record-Store 
for your posters and table tents 
r 
I · · ·!-!. r.·,'.·,·.
·u,!, ,;_,;,· ·, 

•, ..........;.:~:~;~;~~'jl-il!'ilia"jc·:~~~,.~~~~·····~'~o'''-•••lliir•..lllll!dlrlle........... 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
View~oint 
Wednesday,November9, 1983--page6 
Reagan and the presidential arena 
The political season being well upon us and the Nt·w llamp~hire primary hut three months away, it is already evident that the 19H4 campai~n for the Presidency and <:on~rt·ss will he an extraordinary event. 
The plethora of serious Democratic Prt·sidential candidates, the President's dclay~.:d annountTment on re-elt.-ction, tht· rt·tirement of key Congressional leaders (like lloward Baker) and the shaky hopes of the 
Robert Lloyd Snyder Then midweek 
Republicans to maintain control of the Senate all I(Jl"US attt·ntion on the importance of .leX! November 
Many of tht· outstandin~ issues which dominate th1: news today -the arms talks with the Soviet I :nion. the prospects for peace in the Middk East, the incrt·ase in hlack voter re~istration -should affect the t·nvironment in which American voters ~.:ast their votes in the primaries, and shape the hattlt.-ground upon which tht· final 19H4 elections will he li>ught. 
The kt·y to tht· t·ntirt· prt·sidential race will he Ronald Rt·agan; tht· fortunes of the Presi­dent over the next year will determine whether or not the Republicans will defend 
their dominant position in the government. 
The slogan for the 1984 elections might he best summarized, "As Reagan goes, so go the Rt·puhlicans," that is, if the President should "get the sniffies," the entire Republican party will "catch a cold" 
The President is well-aware that almo~t all 
of the Republicans' hope rests on his shoul­
ders; he has scheduled extensive foreign 
travel throughout 1984, as presidential atten­
tion to foreign policy issues seems to raise 
public approval for Administration policies. 
Even Reagan's delay in announcing his can­
didacy seems intended to milk the incum­
bant's position to the hilt -he has become 
the focus ofextensive political speculation in 
Washington where the political pundits won­
der if he intends to pass on the Republican 
kadership. 
Reagan must stay in the news over the next twelve months as president, and not as a political candidate. If Reagan can reinfi>rce the idea in the minds of the American elec­
torate that he is indeed the president, then his chances for re-ele~.:tion seem bright. 
On the Democratic side of the coin, almost anything and everything still could occur. While Walter Mondale suppossedly had the Democratic nomination under wraps only a 

month ago, the candidacy of the Rev. jesse jackson poses a potential hazard for the Mondale steamroller and a boon for the chances ofSenatorJohn Glenn. 
Mondale has built his coalition upon the traditional Democratic constituencies: or­ganized labor, women, Jews, educators, and blacks -with the black vote being an integral part ofhis electoral base. The entrance ofjack­son into the picture may sap Mondale of con­siderable numbers of young and middle-aged blacks who would otherwise vote for him. 
This development may also weaken Mondale's position to the point where Glenn re-emerges as a serious threat to Mondale's primacy. Both Mondale and Glenn could find themselves without enough delegates at the Democratic convention to garner the nomina­tion in the first round. 
In this case, Jackson would arrive at the 
convention as a man with a price, a price that has been whispered as a vice presidential spot on the Democratic ticket. Furthermore, the unprecedented "cramming" of so many -,Democratic primaries in the space of a few weekends gives an outside chance to a Gary Hart or an Alan Cranston, who have been con­centrating their campaigns in the first few 
primary states in order to "sneak" their way 
into the Mondale-Gknn race. 
The congressional scenario is just as 
muddled. The departure from the Senate of 
leaders like Baker and John Tower of Texas 
not only deprives the Republicans of proven 
campaigners and leaders for the elections, but also opens up new slots in the Senate where the Democrats will attempt to upset the Republican majority. 
Moreover, several far-right Senate Republicans, such as Helms and Strom Thur­mond of Mississppi, are in serious trouble in their home districts if we believe the polls; these rwo developments could spell disaster for the Republican control ofthe Senate. 
1984 will be an interesting year, a year in which Americans will continue the voting trends of the past decade and again reject the leaderhip which they had installed four years earlier. The Democrats, if they can avoid serious intra-party dissent and squabbles, should demolish the Republicans next November. 
The Democrats, however, must first choose a leader. Will it be Mondalc? Or will it be Glenn? 
Or if they can't decide between these two, will it be Teddy? 

As we approach the year of our Lord 1984, it would lx· good to remember that Gt·orge <)rwdl warned us about all this in his classic, /')84, a novel about the totalitaranism of the futurt·. Orwell dt·scribed what would happen to words. They would become instruments of 
Richard Cohen 

Washington Post Group 
tht· stall', weapons in the hands of the govern­mt·nt, and they would he used to say one thing and mean another. It is a bit early, hut 1984 is here. 
And w~cn I say hcrt·. I mean Washington. Orn·cll. of coursl·. patterned his 198·1 after what he saw was emtTging from the com­munist countries. A former radical himself, he knt·w ht·tter than some -maybe t·ven better than most -that the n>mmunists had a real talent ti>r abusing word.\. "Pcopk" did not memthe pcopk, it meant the small group that controlkd the pt·oplc. "Demouacy" meant dit·tatorship ami "liht·ration" mt·ant some­
1984: a few months early 
thing akin to enslavement. 
But now we get the same sort of rhetorical legerdemain from our own government. Sud­denly, the Marines who tragically killed in Beirut are, in the words of President Reagan, "heroes." They are not. They are victims. A soldier killed in his sleep is hardly a hero. He has no chance to be, no opportunity to do any­thing ht·roic, no chance to take any action whatsoever. 
The word "hero" obscures the fact that something went terribly wrong in Beirut. Never mind questions of policy. Never mind all those questions about why the Marines were there in the first place. A unit that is forced to stay in the low ground, that is or­dered to keep i~s W~\lP<lflS unloaded,that can­not take proper and routine action to protect itself, that fails even to barricade itself, has not been wdl-served by either its government or its ollkers. 
George Orwell would have shook his head knowingly when President Reagan, in his speech, cited Marine Commandant Paul X. Kelley's visit to injured marines in a West Ger­man hospital. Reagan told how Kelley stopped by the bedside of a Marine. There were tubes running in and out of the man and he could not speak. He was given a pad and on it he wrote, "Semper Fi" -the motto "of the 

corps," Reagan said. "Semper Fide/is. Always Faithful." 
It was a moving event and no one could not have been impressed with the spirit and spunk of that particular Marine. But you would be remiss in not asking "always faithful to what?" Faithful to a policy that has wandered from interceding between the PLO and the Israelis, to guarding the airport, to aiding the Lebanese to form their own government, to thwarting alleged Soviet-Syrian plans to dominate the Middle East? 
Should that Marine be faithful to the failure of someone co secure the Marine base, the failure to do what was done to the American Embassy in Saigon after the Tet offensive ­make it impregnahe? Even President Nixon has buses drawn up around the White House before a peace demonstration in Washington. Couldn't that much have been done for the Marine in Beirut? 
In the same way, words have lost their 
meaning when it comes to Grenada. A chaotic situation there was portrayed as a blood bath. There was no government on Grenada; yet it threatened the students. The Grenadians said they would get the students out; yet we refused to take them up on this. The island was in chaos. Yet there was a 24-hour curfew and when our soldiers landed, they encountered troops who fought longer and better than ex­pected. And now it turns out we invaded Grenada primarily because it was becoming a Cuban base -although we were apparently unsure ofhow many Cubans were there. This, in Orwellian terms, is double-speak, with the government, having excluded the press, doing all the speaking. 
It could be that the Grenadian invasion was justified and it could be that there is no better cause than the Marines remaining in Lebanon. But if all that is is the case, then it should be supported by truth and candor -not twisted words, slippery arguments, prior censorship of the press and news manipulation. When George Orwell wrote 1984 it was a book. In two short months, it will he a year. But al­ready, it seems, it is a policy. 

P. O. Bo~Q  ~d OVER ~ERE OV£R THfR£ THf ~ANKS ARt COM\N' THt YANK~ AR~ C~MlNI AN~ IT WON'l BE OVER ~lL -rnt YAN~S ~RE tVE~~WHERE  
Grenada plan DearEditor: When the Unitt·d States invaded Grenada, the stated objective was to protect American livt·s. This ha~ been done: all those who wished to leave have left, yet we arc still there. Tht·rt· has been a new objective established: we arc now there to insure a positive transi­tion of government. In other words, a govern­mmt that will hopefully he in good standing with the United States in terms of policy and rdations. That's cool. better us than the Soviet Union. llowcver, remember at the same time, if Russia had done. or was doing now, what we had done, we would be screaming bloody munkr. So next time Russia invades a country  to protect lives or the insure apositive transi­tion, don't scream and yell, chances are we tried but didn't get it. Tom McDonald Nuke Pitt? DearEditor: The "Nuke the Panthers" float (complete with mushroom cloud), which formed part of the Fall Festival parade prior to Saturday's football game against Pitt, was out ofstep with the "Peace Week" events on campus. "Nuking" anything or anybody is •SO devastat­ing a horror to contemplate that even such well-intentioned humor seem ill-placed. joseph Fogarty  


EditorialBoard DepartmentManagers 
Editor-in-Chief...................... ........ David l)ziedzic 
P. (). Hox Q. Notrt' Dam!'. IN 46556 (.! {')) 239-5303 Managing Editor....................... Margarct Fosmoe Business Manager .. .. Christopher Owen 
Tht' 0/Jst'rt•er i~ the imkpt:ndcnt nt·wspapt·r puhlisht·d hy tht· students of the I 'ni­Ewcutir•e Editor......... . .... Paul 1\tc(;inn Controller ....................... Alex ~zih·a., \'t·rsity of Notre Damt· du I.a.-and Saint Mary's Colle~t·. It docs not necessarily retlect News Editor.................. .. .. Bob Vonderheide Ad!'ertising /IJanager.. ... . . .Jeanie Poole the polidt·~ of tht· administration of eitht·r institution. Tht· news is reported as ac­Neu•s EditrJr....................... . .... Mark Worschch Circulation Manager.......... ............ Mark Miotto curatdy and as ohjectivdy as possihk llnsignt·d editorials rt·pn·scnt tht· opinon ofa Saint Mary's Editor........ ..... Anne 1\tonastyrski .\)'stems Manager ...... Kevin Williams majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentarit-s.lettt>rs. and the Inside Column present Sports Editor......... .......... .. .. Mid1ael .~JJ)livan Composition Manager ......Suzanne l.a Croix the views ofthdr authors. Column space is available to all members o~thc community. Features Editor................... .. ......Sarah Hamilton and tht· frt·e t·xprt·ssion of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. PhotrJ Editor........................... . .Scott Bower 
Founded November 3, 1966 


-------------------, 
Wednesday,November9, 1983-page 7 
Miss Manners 
Going to the c:hapel 
with a party o1f groomsmen 
by Judith Martin 
DearMissManners-Iam ahonosexual male and am planning to marry another male. Since we are ·Joth men, it has brought up a few problems about the ceremony. 
First, is it proper to have two set!; ofgroomsmen? We thought pos­sibly ofeach having two men and two women and calling them at· tendants, instead ofgroomsmen or bridesmaids. I was also wondering what would be the proper way for the minister to pronounce us married. Would "man and man" be all right, or per­haps "husband and husband"? 
Gentle Reader-Now, now. You don't really want Miss Manners to tell you what tradition decrees in the way ofgender distribution in a wedding party, do you? 
It would be more becomingfor you to adopt the evolutionaryeti­quette, in which relationship supersedes gender. Choose your wed­ding attendants for the degree oft:1eir friendship to you -as some heterosexual couples are now doi1g -and not for their sex or becomingness to the attire you have chosen. 
The minister should pronounce the new relationship, not the gen­der. 
DearMiss Manners -My wife and I have a single, 35-year-old medical doctor as a good friend, •.nd often invite him into our home for dinner. 
After a few visits, we noticed our friend never went to the bathroom to void himself We thoLight this was strange, and felt com­fortable enough in our friendship to ask why. His reply was that he never uses host's bathroom facility unless he is an overnight guest, because he feels a person's toilt facilities are a very private and per­sonal place. Needless to say, his visits are limited to the stoage capacity ofhis bladder. 
What do you think ofthis behavior, and what might you suggest we say to this gentleman to make him feel comfortable enough in our home to use our facilities? 
Gentle Reader -This gentlem;m has produced an original inter­pretation ofthe proper use ofthe bathroom, at some discomfort to himself, and Miss Manners rather doubts that you will be able to talk him out ofit. Her kindest suggestion, therefore, is on what not to say to him. "Have a beer," would be first on that list. 
DearMiss Manners -Last night, my dog bolted from our yard during his evening constitutional. After a futile search ofthe neigh­borhood, I returned home, hoping he would find his way back. Since it was late, I retired to my bed to r•ead a book, with plans to wait up and let him in when I heard him. Unfortunately, I was overtaken by slumber, and awoke at 4:30am to harking. In my haste to let him in before he disturbed the neighbon., I attempted to put on my robe "on the run," so to speak. 
To my chagrin, I discovered the lady from across the street stand­ing on my front porch, shining her flashlight through the foyer win­dow and up the stairs as I descend·~d them, not yet in a state of decency. I hurried to the back door to let the dog in first, signalling her as I went by that I was attending to the noise problem. When I returned to address her(through the window, not wishing to open the door clad only in my robe), sh(· uttered words regarding the dog which you could not print, so I will not repeat them. The only response I could muster was to close the window, and she left in an understandable huff. 
Which I cannot debate that her complaint was justified, I find it difficult to accept her invasions of my privacy with herflashlight. My only hope is that she was as embarrassed by the eyeful she received as I was in providing it. 
How <.'an I address this woman in sincere apology, feeling the resentment that I do regarding her actions and attitude? I wish to maintain friendly relationships with all my neighbors. When we moved in, she was the only neighbor who didn't come forward and introduce herself. Given her standoffishness, coupled now with this breach ofdecency, accidental or not, I am at a loss. 
Gentle Reader -Miss Mannen; appreciates your feeling of responsibility for your dog's barking; she appreciates your desire to be on good terms with your neighbors; and she appreciates the ex­treme fairness with which you have related this story. She also more than appreciates your resentment offoul-mouthed ladies who flash lights up your bathrobe in the middle ofthe night, when the situa­tion is obviously out ofyour control and you're demonstrating your anxiety to remedy it. 
Let us try, therefore, to construet a polite note that will conveyall ofthese things with impeccable c .vility. (We are giving up the hope of"friendly relations" -have ym;. not noticed that our neighbor doesn't want them?) 
Apologize for the noise, apologize for the provoking her to a "high-volume, colorful complaint that might have disturbed our mutual neighbors," and apologize for "not being in a fit state to receive a lady when you unexpectedly called at my window." 
The conclusion should be something like, "I certainly feel that invading the privacy ofothers and letting out such dreadful sounds are unacceptable behavior -and I am heartily ashamed that my dog engaged in them." 
Copyright, 1983, United Feature Syndicate, Inc. 
........llllilil........-illllll.................... 
by Pat Beaudine 
features staff writer 
J
ohn Cougar Mellencamp had his work cutout for him. Not only did he have to follow up one ofthe best selling albums of 1982, but he also had to make music that satisfied himself; which was most important ofall. This feeling was echoed in a recent quote about his latest album when he said, "This is the kind of music we've played ever since we were kids, but we've fin:Uly let it out ofthe bag. It's the kind ofmusic I wrote when I did 'Hurts So Good.'" When this song hitthe top five, Cougar was reassured that their music wasn't kidstuff. 
No longer inhibited by how the public would receive their sound, the group was free to pursue their tough image. Cougar remarked, "We couldn't jusf drink five beers, we had to drink 15. We couldn't just smoke a little pot, we had to smoke a whole bunch. We couldn't have just one 
girl, we had to have one a week." All ofthese forces come together on an album simply called Uh Huh and, surprisingly, it proves to be one of this year's most striking albums for several reasons. 
First ofall, he completely ignores the tradition ofcopying the formula and success ofa previous hit single like Quarterflash did with "Take Me to Heart." In today's record business this feat is truly admirable. This means that there is no "Jack and Diane Part II" or "Hurts So Good" ripoffon this album, which some 

people might hear with a sigh of relief. More surprising is that Uh Huh is a good rock album. However, it could be a much better lp ifit didn't have such problems as an ob­vious fixation with The Rolling Stones. For example, the drum lead and instrumental crescendo in "Pink Houses" mimics "You Can't Always Get What You Want," while the em­phasis on the rhythm section, espe· cially on "Crumblin' Down," makes you feel that Charlie Watts Olnd Bill Wyman visited the studio during recording. Most telling ofall, however, is a song called "Serious Business." With its Stones' style guitar riffs and chorus, it must be the most blatant imitation ofthat group ever recorded -it's the kind ofsong Keith Richards could swear that he recorded during one of his all night (or all year) heroin binges. 
Other shortcomings include the lyrics, which is a definite shame, be­cause they often hold back a good song. They're not written poorly per se, but the lyrical stance ofa simple rebel who detests high society often gets tiresome. In "Crumblin' Down," for example, he proudly sings, 
Somepeople sayI'm obnoxious and lazy ThatI'm uneducated and my opinion means nothin' ButI know I'm a real good dancer Don't need to look over my shoul­der to see whatI'm after. 
This posturing also exists else-
It happened one night 
by Chris Fraser 
features cQlumnist 
L
astThursday night, I did not meet Pat Haden and Gary Bender. 
There they stood within but an arm's length ofmy grasp, deftly blended into a crowd ofstudents at Senior Bar. To the untrained ob­server, they seemed to be merely a pair ofyoung alums arrived early for weekend festivities. I, however, knew differently and I slyly circled 
them hoping for a convenient op­
portunity to enter their conversa­
tion. But alas, this timid journalist 
could not conjure up an excuse to 
introduce himself 
By means ofexposition for the non-football fanatic, Pat Haden and Gary Bender comprise the CBS col­lege football broadcast team. They were in town, ofcourse, to lend their voices to the telecast of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh contest of Saturday last. I suppose my sudden 
desire to meet these gentlemen arose from a sort ofvague ambition ofmine to enter the world ofbroad­cast journalism. Perhaps, I thought, they could give me some thoughts on the profession or even a tip or two. And who knows what might have happened ifa conversation had indeed been initiated ... 
Me: Mr. Haden, Mr. Bender, I hap­pened to notice you standing over here and I just wanted to introduce myselfbecause I admire your great work. My name is ... 
Mr. Haden: Gary, do you hear the great voice on this kid? Mr. Bender: Beautiful enuncia­tion, just beautiful. Mr. Haden: Ever done any announcing kid? 
Records 

Me: Well, I have read the news on WSND a few times. 
Mr. Bender: He's experienced. Good-looking too. This kid's got it all. 
Mr. Haden: Wonder ifhe knows anything about sports. Hey kid, what do you think about the game tomor­row? 
Me: Irish by ten. 
Mr. Bender: Hmmmm ...not too good on his football, but that doesn't really matter. What do you think. Pat? 
Mr. Haden: Let's grab him, Gary, before NBC and ABC start nosing around here. 
Mr. Bender: Okay kid, you're hired. When can you start? Me: Well, I'll have to wait until I graduate in May. 
Mr. Haden(asidetoMr. Bender): I knew it. The good ones always hold out. 
Mr. Bender: Go hardship, kid. We're talking six figures here. 
Me: Six figures? 
Mr. Haden: Salary, kid, salary. 100,000 a year and let's say 50,000 
just to sign. Is it a deal? 
Me: I don't know. Ifl was a football player, the NFL would make me wait until my class graduated. Isn't that right, Mr. Haden? 
Mr. Haden: Call me Pat. That's true, but comingfrom USC, I can tell you that most ofour guys can barely read, not to mention graduate. 
Me: I did hear something about that. But I am pretty close to getting my degree. 
Mr. Bender: Look at Don Meredith or 0.]. Simpson. These guys are big time in sportscasting but do you think they were worried about get­ting a piece ofpaper scrawled in Latin or something? 
Me: I guess not. But what about all those coaches who say it's important to stay in school and finish your education? 
Pat: Wouldn't you say that ifyour star tailback wanted to leave and your job was on the line? 
Me: Well Pat, maybe you're right. I'll sign, but not for a pennyless then 150 a year. 
Gary: We'll give you 125. Me: I'll get an agent. Pat: 135 plus a nifty CBS Sports jacket. Me: Where do I sign? 
With thoughts ofsuch a conversa­tion bounding through my brain, I carefully watch Mr. Haden and Mr. Bender. And yet, despite the urgings of my fellow bar-flys, I could not bring myselfto go for it. Someone even offered to drag me up and do the honors but I said no, I was sure they were much too busy (why else would they be in Senior Bar?)-to be bothered. 
But don't think I let them leave without getting so much as a word from them. With my imagination soaring about the glamorous world ofsportscasting, I simply could not let that happen. So as they prepared to exit, I raced for the door and my one last chance. In my haste, I brushed against Mr. Haden and our conversation began. Needless to say, it was something quite less than what I'd imagined. 
Mr. Haden: Excuse me. 
Me: Uh ...sorry. 
So I didn't get to formally meet Pat Haden and Gary Bender last Thursday. But no one can tell me that I didn't at least talk to them. 

Cougar is out of the bag, Uh Huh 
where, from the simple man who pays the bills in "Pink Houses" and from the man who fights authority in 
"Authority Song," to the singer in "Play Guitar" who advises a man to give up his "cushy job" and play guitar because that is the only route to success. 
Aside from these lyrical problems, there also exist a few weak songs that hurt this album. A song titled "Jackie 0." can clearly fit in this category because ofits sleep induc­ing qualities, while "Golden Gates" is also marred because ofits trite message about the sanctity of promises made from the heart. 
But besides these flaws, UhHub is the kind ofalbum that will doJohn Cougar Mellencamp proud. It can't be considered the greatest release of the year by any means, but songs like "Pink Houses" and "Crumblin' Down" are a definite improvement over ''Jack and Diane." In "Authority Song" he even adds a little humor when he sings, 
So I call up mypreacher I say, "Give me strengthfor Round 
Five" He said, "You don't need no strength, you need to grow up son" I said, "Growing up leads to 
growing old and then to dying And dying to me don't sound like all that muchfun." 
~­
Maybe that's not the funniest lyric 
ever written, but added to all the 
positive elements in this album it 
seems that better things will come 
from John Cougar Mellencamp in 
the future. 

·..·.·.·:.·.·.·.·.·.··1 
' 
Sports Briefs 
The Flying Fathers. known as ·"The llarkm 
Globetrotters of Ice 1-Iockey." will play a game tonight at the ACC for the henfit of Phoenix House, a halfway house for recovering alcoholic women in South Bend. The Fathers, an internationally known group ofpric:sts, have all at one time or another played either amateur or pro hockey prior to c:ntering the seminary. They will play 20-minutc periods against the Notre Dame club hockey team, the St. Joseph's lligh S<:hool hockey team, and the Icc Boxers of the Mis­hiana Senior League. -The Ohsen,er 
The second annual "Turkey Shoot," a 
co-ree target shooting contest, is being sponsored by NYA. No ex­perience is necessary. You must res .ervc a time for your team oftwo men and two women. The deadline for sign-up is Nov. II. Call 239­6100 for more information. -The Observer 
Important NVA deadlines are today. Both 
men's and women's interhall sign-ups close. Also, the club and graduate basketball deadline is today. The interhall hockey and squash registration is over after today. Ifthere are any questions, call 239-6100 or talk to your hall athletics commissioner. -The Ob­servt'T' 
Wednesday,November9, 1983-pageS 
The SaintMary's intraniuralvolleyball league 
still has some room for more teams. The league is open to SMC stu­dents, administrators, taculty and staff. Team must register at the Angela Athletic Facility hy today. For more information, call 284­5549. -The Observer 
The ND Football Banquetwill he held Monday, November 21 at the ACC. The night hegins with cocktails at 5:30pm. with dinner following at 7 p.m. Former Irish All-America running back Creighton Miller will be the toastmaster for the night. The featured guests and speal<ers will be all six ofNotre Dame's Heisman Trophy winners. Ticket information is available by contacting Hugh Reynolds at either 232-3992 or 289-4303. -The Observer 
Basketball ticketsare still available. A limited number of non-renewable bleacher season tickets are now on sale for the 1983-84 men's campaign. They will be on sale through November 16 at Gate 10 of the ACC which is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday. -The Observer 
The }acrose team will be meeting today at 4:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. The meeting will feature G.T. Weil as a guest lecturer. The meeting is required for aU those interested in playing the spring sport. -The Observer 
Intersquad basketball game 
The annual intersquad games for the men's and women's ba.~ketball teams will he Sunday, November 13. Mary DiStanislao's team splits up and tips off at 6:30 p.m. Diggt.·r Phclp's squad then gets on tht.· court at ..,,_~0 
p.m. 
Marathon Oil is sponsoring the game with all proceeds going to Logan Center and the Neighbor­hood Study 1-Ielp Program. Tickets are $2 for adults and SI for students 15 and under and all Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students with their 
ID's. 
Tickets arc on sale at Gate I 0 of the ACC and will also he available at the door. 
It'll he the first chance for Irish fans to watch Phelp's three freshmen -guard Scott Hicks, and forwards John Bowen and Donald Royal -in action. 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertisins from 9 o.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. 
Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in per­
son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per day. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST 
Mrs. Bedford 
288-2t07 
Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Mon lhru Fn. 
$ $ Part 11me employmen1 ava1lable lor energetic student. Good sales ex· perience Set own hours. Reputable. expanding company. For 1nterv1ew call Bob al259-3957 
I say cheese. you say steal<! CHEESES· TEAKII CHEESESTEAK!I CHEESEs­TEAK!! Howard Hall presents Wednesday nile cheesesteaks D1al 8200 lo order between 9 -1t.30 dlal8200 lo order FREE DELIVERY 
STUDENT TRAVEL REP NEEDED lo promote our annual Sprtng Break tnps to Flonda. FREE TRIP TO FLORIDA plus commission. Please call or wrrte COAS­TAL TOURS. INC. PO BCX 68. OAK FOREST.IL. 60452 (312) 535-32t2. 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -CALL PAUL McGINN AT 23s.-5313 OR 277-4851. 
TYPING 277·8534 after 5:30 
LOST/FOUND 
..... !. ....... 
LOST NAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET TO THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT 86t0 
LOST GOLD TIMEX WATCH Lost about t month ago. PLEASE call375t 
HELP!!I!LOST. I am Lost along wrth my glasses!!! They are nm~ss wtreframes­SIIver. glass 1s shghlly 11nled Please call Doug al 4625 Reward prormsedll If's been almost two months and I'm go1ng blind! 
LOST: Necklace. P1nk pearts (lake). Lost tn Lewis, Keenan. or some where in be­tween on Sunday Please call Mary Bush­man alt992 
LOST My heart 10 you and now what do I do? I need a hug. When w1ll I see you aga1n? Soon I hope Thank you lor every­thing. bul most especially lor be1ng you. I Jove you 

Lost: grey scarf w1lh bunons 1n section 3t al the PIU game Please help me hnd rt before rt turns really cold. 284-439t 
HELP'! I LOST A GOLD MEDALLION IN THE ACC ON MON NOV 8 IT HAS THE INITIALS M LA ENGRAVED ON THE BACK AND SAYS FLORIDA CHAM­PIONS AROUND THE YELLOW STONE THE HIGH SCHOOL NAME ENGRAVED ON IT IS CARDINAL NEWMAN PLEASE HELP ME OUT BY CALLING MARILU AT 6722 PLEASE. IT HAS A LOT OF SEN­
TIMENTAL VALUE THANKYOU CALL 6722! 

LOST I A BLUE BACKPACK LAST WEEK SOME TIME IN IT WAS A GREEN FOL­DER AND NOTEBOOK MYNAMEISON THE OUTSIDE POCKET.ROBERT B NEWHOUSE I REALLY NEED THESE BACK REWARD PLEASE CALL BOB AT ,364t OFt RETURN 1'0 40~ MORRIS­SEY Tt"i~NJ(S FOUND The perfect person for me. Wrth you I'm comfortable.happy. and full of love. What would I do Without you? I hope I never find oul. LUV YA'J! 
LOST-Grey Brooks Runmng Shoes w/ Blue Slnpe. Problably in North Dining Hall last Friday. Sieve 8677 
LOST: One Fuschia Whammy! Toy Pis­tol. Great senttmental value. 11 found, please call Patnck at t754 anytime. 
LOST-SMC GOLD CLASS RING wrth LAB '85 inscription. II you know ANY­THING, PLEASE!! call284-5t76 
FOUND OUTSIDE MADELEVA HALL· gold pendant With 1011/als MWM and Hap­py 2t st on the back-call to cla1m 284-4389 
FOR RENT 

HOUSEMATE FEMALE. $t75 MO EX­CELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO NO. GROCERY STORE. FUR­NISHED 233·6081. 
FURNISHED HOUSE. CLOSE TO N.D GOOD AREA 277-3604 
GARAGE 2 BLOCKS FROM N.D. 277­3604. 
APT UTILITIES PAID 286-0955. 
MALE ROOMMATE WANTED START­ING JANUARY AT CASTLE POINT. A NICE THREE BEDROOM APT. RENT $t50 A MONTH PLUS UTILITIES CALL 272-5289 NOW 
TWO PEOPLE BUNGALOW PRIVATE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 286· 09551277-3604 
WANTED 


RAFFERTYS IS HIRING COOKS WAITRESS AND HOSTESS SIMILIER TO T.G.I.F. MENUE APPLY MON-FRI 4­
6 
Ted to Peper: DROP DEADI Well. nol really (yet. anyway) ...but now that I have your attention I need a ride to Philadelphia (Pa.. not M1ss.. sorry Marcus) or -environs lor Turkey Day break. I can leave anytime after the Air Force game on t1119 (the earlier lhe bet· ler) and can return anytime from Sunday tt/27 on (lhe later the bener). Call T1m belor8 6 pm at 282-24 78 
2 roomates lor N.D. apls. Call234-9116 
NEED R TIDE TO PENN ST. CAN LEAVE NOV. tt AFTER 3:30 PM CALL DAN t487. 
NEED RIDE to Penn Stale for NO game. Will share usual Can leave after 5.00pm Thurs. Call Bnan at t935 or Karen al 284­5441 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK -CALL PAUL McGINN AT 23~53t3 OR 2n­
4851 
WANTED RIDERS TO THE LEHIGH VALLEY (or thereabouts) FOR TURKEY DAY ...CALL MIKE AT 277-6055 
Young man or woman wnated lo work wrth adull handicapped bowlers once or 
:::::.:,~~~a:7'nlorm~~~: C~~~.~~: ~ 
3 RIDES NEEDED TO PmSURGH FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. LEAVING THE 22ND OR 23RD. WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES,ETC. CALL VIC AT 23s.-7471 OR 283-3406. PLEASE LEAVE MESSAGE. 
NEED RIDE to Purdue Nov. 1t. Can 
leave after t2:00. Share expenses. Call Brian NO. t935. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO BCSTON FORT­GIVING: Leaving t11t8. Return 11127. Call Gib-t682 after 1t pm. 
Need ride to Penn St! Call Rosanne al 277-85t0 
EAST? NEED RIDE TO EXIT 7 OHIO 'PIKE NOV tt-t3 CALL. STEVE 15t6 
NEED RIDE II you know of student or parent go1ng to BUFFALO NY area on t1119 or 20 call Jean 284-4147 
NEED RIDE TO THE PENN STATE GAME will be able to by late afternoon on t;'[i,~all Tom 277-4283 
FOR SALE 
CLOTHING-!ZOO SWEATERS(ALL COLORS) S.M.L,XL -$25 SHORTS(RUGBY-$t2 SOCCER-$7) 
S.M.L MITRE TURF SHOES 8,9,tO.tt -$25 CALL MIKE t729 
tor sale: woman s diamond engagement ring,14 karat yellow gold..35 ct. stone. orig. value $950, will sell lor $450, call Terry al 239-7735 
FOR SALE. HUGE tO PIRANHA. Best ot­ter over $25. Call BUMPER t047. 
STEREO:KENWOOD BASE/GLENBURN TURN/JVC CAS­SETTE/E V SPKRS. ALL LIKE NIOW ..MOVING OVESEAS & MUST' SELL...$375. ALSO COLOR T.V. 19... $t25. CABIN TENT t3' X 9'...$45. RING at234-8858 
House tor sale one mile north of campus. Good neighborhood, good tax sheller for parents. 3 Bed-1/2 acre. Call days 256­56tt or nights 233-3997. 
FOR SALE A DELCO CAR STEREO 
CALL 283-8046 BEST OFFER 
LIKE NEW DP 3900 DELUXE CHROME MULTI-PURPOSE LEG LIFT INCLINE BENCH WITH COMPLETE BARBELL AND DUMBELL SET $75. CALL MARILYN6634. 

I need tickets to any remaining home game (NAVY. PITT. or AIR FORCE) Call Joe alt208 BEFORE you sell yours. 
needed 2 to 4 penn slate GAs call Mat 8689 
NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S--WILL PAY $$$ BECAUSE ITS NOT MY MONEY KEN t60t 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need 4 GA'alor Air ForceII Please call Cindy at 2856 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
................................................................ ~ ~·:~~~~~~~~~EtTH 3659 _. 

Need:2 or 3 A1rlorce GAs and 1 or 2 Stu­dent Tix. Call John al1579!111 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's. CALL JERRY AT t744. 
WANTEDIll!-Six Penn Slate GA's. Call Tom Hollerbach collect at (312) 565­5959. 
Needed: 2 Air Force GA ·s . Call Tom al 8657or8656 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GAs CALL KRAIG alt608 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S DAVE 283­1650 
NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'SI DAVE 8238. 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD. TIXS CALL MATT 1206 
NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'SI DAVE 8238 
I need tickets to any remaimng home game (NAVY. PITT. or AIR FORCE) Call Joe al1208 BEFORE you sell yours. 
needed 2 lo 4 penn slate GA's call Mal 8689 
NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'5--WILL PAY $$$ BECAUSE ITS NOT MY MONEY KEN t60t 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need 4 GA'a lor Air Forcell Please call Cindy at 2856 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need:2 or 3 Airlorce GA's and t or 2 Stu­dentTix. Call John at t5791!1! 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's. CALL JERRY AT t744. 
WANTEDIIII-Six Penn State GA's Call Tom Hollerbach collect at (312) 565­5959. 
NEED AF GA'S KEITH 3659 
Needed: 2 Air Force GA ·s . Call Tom al 8657or8656 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GAs CALL KRAIG al1608 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S DAVE 283­1650 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD. TIXS CALL MATT 1206 
Need 3 or 4 GAs lor Alf Force. Call Steve al232-0550 
AWK--NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S, CALL TED AT 286-0137 
FOR SALE-2 AIR FORCE STUDENT TIXS-BEST OFFER-CALL 284-4389 
PERSONALS 
NOW OPEN · Tennessee Southern Bar­B-Que. tt3 Dix1eway N.. Roseland. Tues-Thurs. tt-tO: Fr1. tt-M1dmghl: Sal 12-t2. Ribs, R1b Tips. Chicken, Shoulder sandwiches. Beef sandwiches. D1mng & carr your. 2 doors S. of Big C Lumber. 
BED AND BREAKFAST -Football weekends for NO parents. Two (2) night m1n1mum. 10 m1ns. from campus. 272­5640_ 
. .~¥~~~~~ARS, F1sher base,ent won 
To the BROTHERS ot COLUMBA HALL. 
1n apprec1a11on of the food and tun on the 
feast of St. Edward. a belated but s1ncere 
THANK YOU." 
MEN OF ST ED'S 

PAT. PAT. PAT. PAT (SMOKEY) NOV. 
12 HAPPY BIRTHDAY Ill TO THE BEST 
ROOMATE I '\IE EVER HAD IN MORRIS­
SEY I HAPPY2t ST WOODIE 
WE MAY BE LAZV. BUT WE STILL LOVE YOU BARRY THANKS FOR THE FREE BEERS! 
MOVIE-THE GRADUATE Haggar Center-SMCthur. t11t0 7:00& 9:t5 $t 
CARL (Dan). We are ABSOLUTELY sor­ry for go1ng THE WHOLE NINE YARDS Sunday mghl at the library. Bul, GEEZ LOUISE we were JUSI JOking THE LIVE WIRES 
Need nde to S.W side-Chicago-Fn-277­6054 
JEANNINE-HAPPY 20TH Birthday! Memones of your WILD 19th year Will al­ways travel Wllh me. I'm glad thai I was a part of rt. I'll miss you. Love. Sue. P.S Keep an eye on your checkbook! 
Stephanie and Jean: Here's the personal you've been awaH­Jng wHh bated breath. I hope you know I'm always around when you want to celebrate. 
Love, Jeff 
II you can sell me a IICkel, I can g1ve you a ride. to lhe GENESIS concert Fri. 11/11. Mike 277-3242 
Riders needed to Penn State, 8 spots open. Leav1ng Friday al noon in aU-Haul, $25 round trip. Call t434 
PRESENTATION--Conducting a Mall Campaign--How to write effective resumes and cover letters. Thurs., Nov t 0--7:00 p.m. Room t18 Nieuwland Science Hall. Paul Reynolds ol Career and Placement Services. All students welcome. 
HELP!!! I need a ride to lhe Prttsburgh area forT-day break. Call Mary 3803. 
COLLEGE REPUBLICANS COLLEGE REPUBLICANS COLLEGE REPUBLICANS WEDNESDAY AT 7:00 IN 204 O'SHAG BE THERE' (NEWCOMERS WELCOME) 
Faust/Paterna Productions 
presents 

THE KOHDUTEK BOWL 
Notre Dame 
vs. 
Penn Stale 
November 12. t983 
Stale College. PA 

Proceeds to the Honesty in Sports Com­
mittee. 

Gentle Reader: Do you eagerly awa11 your Wednesday luncheon so lhal you may peruse the Showcase sect1on of your ObServer? II so. genlle reader. \tlen you are prohably a Miss Manners ian. The Showcase section WIShes to hear from its readers. Is Judith Martin a PROPER add1­t1on to th1s fine pubhcat1on? Do you hke 
her columns or readers' leners bener? 
R S. V.P to Jhe Showcase Editor. The Ob­server p 0 Box Q Notre Dame Please 
write~eatly · 
Fortunately lor Alison, women peal< later than men. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! 
COLLEGE REPUBLICANS COLLEGE REPUBUCANS COLLEGE REPUBLICANS Wednesday al7:00 in 204 O'Shag. BE THERE I (Newcomers Welcome) 
Needed. Accordian Player tor FIDDLER ON THE ROOF. Contact Mary Stevens at 239-7757. 
environmental concerns f1lms on thursday night allhe esc, 7 pm 11 you care about the environment. you'll be there' lilies are COMMON GROUND-CHANG­ING VALUES AND THE NATIONAL FOREST. and WILD AMERICA-WHO NEEDS IT? 
THE NOTRE DAME PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB w1ll conduct two events. today, Wednesday lhe 9th. on lhe Notre Dame campus. First. there Will be a man­datory meeting of all members and of those Interested tn JOining the club: 7.30 1n the Architectural Auditorium. Also, tonight tn the Centre for Social Concerns, from 
9.30 to t1 :00. we w111 show some ollhe v1deos from last week's smashtng video party. Rebel and Robb1 say be I here .. 
TONIGHT. the Noire Dame Progress1ve Mus1c Club will have a mandatory meet1ng 1n the Archrteclural Aud1tonum for all members and Interested persons. al 7 30 sharp. Be I here. 
HOWIE PRESENTS WEDNESDAY NITE CHEESESTEAKS -FREE DELIVERY ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS CALL 8200 FROM 9-tt :30 TO ORDER CALL 8200 
To the girl(s) 1n Farley who told J.C. they were Julia: I hope you gol your JOllies be­cause we wtlllaugh last. -Men of Sonn 
Anation exacts a penance. PAYABLEi UPON RETURN A Juniper Press Pubhca11on 
by Michael Varga AUTOGRAPH PARTY! AUTOGRAPH PARTY! Wednesday, Nov 9 
L1brary Auditonum .. 6·00 P M MEET MICHAEL V;<,RGA -author of PAYABLE UPON RETURN-available 1n the Notre Dame bookstore 
ST. JUDE 0 Holy Sa1n1 Jude. Aposlle and Martyr. great in virtue and rich in miracles. near K1nsman of Jesus Chnsl. Fa1lhlul Inter­cessor of all who 1nvoke your spec1al patronage 1n 11me ol need. lo you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg lo whom God has g1ven such great power. lo come to my ass1slance. Help me 1n my present and urgent petl­tton. In return I prom1se to make your name known and cause you to be 1nvol<ed. Say 3 Our Fathers. 3 Ha11 Marys. and 3 Glonas for 9 days. Pubhcat1on must be promised. Saini Jude pray tor us and all who Invoke your a1d. Amen Th1s Novena has never been known to tail ­have had my request granted 
DO YOU LIKE MISS MANNERS? The ObServer Showcase Section would hke to know Feeling op1n1onated? Address your responses in blue or blue-black 1nk on while wnllng paper 10 Showcase Ed1lor. The Observer, P.O. Box 0. Noire Dame 
(Use proper grammar. of course ) 
Keep your nngers Out of my eye. While I wrne, //Ike to glance At the butterflies in glass 
That are all around the walls 

·!: :O:J'_ -••~,...:.:• '.:::.~:~:r.~~~';! ~~ 
...L. · ...... ,.......... -• • ...........-..............._____ ,...____........................ -• ....,:......., .......... ...... ~ ......:~;r,;r...' J J J .r•.r¥'3'irT&.r~"7i.'~"~,.;r._,s~-r.;.~§iflj'7~&.s.>-$/1;:,,=-;·-;·-;··;·:;·~-·~·~"-Yiiiiii¥.";·-.~;··;:~··\·;~ •. ~·: 
The Observer Wednesday,November9, 1983-page9 
Cornhuskers' Rozier likes to kee:p to himself 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. -Nebraska run­ning back Mike Rozier says he spends most of his time getting lost. 
The Cornhuskers' 1-back, who has rewritten many of the school's rus­hing and scoring records and is 292 yards short of becoming the all-time leading ground gainer in the Big Eight Conference, eludes tacklers on the field. 
In private, Rozier treasures the time when he can play jazz music and get lost in his thoughts. 
Rozier said yesterday that is espe· 
cially true now as the No. 1-rankec. 
Cornhuskers continue their bid for '· 
national championship and talk of 
post-season honors becomes harder 
to ignore. 
"I find myself keeping more tc• myself I have to," he said. "A lot of times I get in my car and drive around just so I can get away from everything. Or else I go home, put on some jazz music and try to keep everything clear in my head." 
"Things are happening fast and I'm just trying to keep hold ofmyset' while everything just kind of swirl5 by." 
When the senior from Camden, 
N.J., came to Nebraska two year:; 
ago, nothing seemed to go fast. 
"It was quite a change for me," he: said. "There were a lot of time.> when I didn't know if I was going to be able to make it. I was homesick even though I was away from my family and friends the year I played junior college ball in Coffeyville, Kan." 
"I just told myself I had to try and stick it out. And that's what I did When I was struggling, trying to ad­just, I never thought things would turn out the way they did." 
In last Saturday's home game against Iowa State, Rozier rushed for 212 yards on 26 carries and scored four touchdowns. The performance increased his career point total to 282 and career touchdowns to 47, breaking the school records of 270 and 45 set by 1972 Heisman Trophy winnerJohnny Rodgers. 
But talk of records and the ques­tions about post-season awards seem to wear down Rozier -some­thing the wide array ofdefenses he's faced has been unable to do. 
"A lot of people are talking about the Heisman (Trophy, as the nation's outstanding collegiate player), saying I've got it all wrapped up," he said. "But I don't have the trophy. I think people may get tired of hearing it, but winning our next game is always my main thought." 
Rozier, who will finish his Nebraska career with three 1,000­plus rushing seasons, said he doesn't keep track ofhis yardage. 
"I don't really have to. There seem to be plenty ofpeople doing that for me." His career total is 4,290. 
Although Rozier said it won't be 
easy for him, he intends to return to 
Nebraska and complete the 55 
credit hours he needs to get his de­
gree in physical education. 
"I've never been a good student and I still don't like classes," he said. "For much of my life, it was just something you had to do to play ball. But I know it's more important. Football won't last forever for me and I need other things in my life." 
r••••••••••••••Discou11t Coupon•••••••••••••••• 
I  MATERNOIVSKIMARKET  
I  104 Dixie Way No Roseland 4533-31  
1st Stoplight No of St Mary's Entrance  
Open Daily 1 0 ­6  
Fruit· Vegat1tbles • Produce  
Daily Specials -l.ow Prices Everyday  
Apples-Cider-Oran!JeS-Grapefruit-Bananas  
Pineapple-Kiwi-Grapes-Cranberries-Yams  
Dried Fruit-Manacles-SnaXS  -Honey-Maple Syrup  
Nuts-Dates-Figs-Pop Corn  

..•••••••••••••• Expire:; 11/10/83··--•••••••••••& 
Relief Hot~~~ Manager Part Time Will Train 
Law or MBA student preferred for a national company Please call 233·1 ·1 54 for appointment 

Help a friend get through the day without a c1garette. They might just quit forever. And that's lfllOOrtant. Because good fr Ends ore hard to find. And even tougher to lose. 
THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT 

AMERtCAN CANCER SOCIETY' 
"On Nov. 17th, adopt afriend who smokes:' 

AP Phow 

SMU with a record of7-1 is No.1 in the APfoot­burgh, Notre Dame was dropped from the Top ballpoll this week. The Cornhuskers ofNebraska Twenty, but the Panthers moved into the lastposi· are still on top of the list. With a loss to Pitts-tion of the elite group. 
Looking to Hagler rematch 
Duran is in the spot light again 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. -Roberto Duran is happy to be popular again with boxing fans, but he is looking to satisfy himself and his sense of his­tory in his challenge of undisputed middleweight champion Marvin Hagler. 
"I am fighting just for the fourth title," Duran said yesterday. 
He feels that when he beat Davey Moore for the World Boxing As­sociation junior middleweight title last June 16, he had redeemed him­self for quitting in the eighth round against Sugar Ray Leonard in their World Boxing Council welter­weight title rematch Nov. 25, 1980. 
Many people turned away from Duran after the Leonard fight, but he was given a hero's welcome on his return to his native Panama after stopping Moore in the eighth round. That victory made him the seventh fighter to win three titles. No one has won four. 
His workouts here for Thursday night's 15-round fight at Caesars Palace have been attended by large groups offans. 

The fighter they have seen is one who appears to be in top physical and mental condition, a fighter who is confident but not arrogant. 
"I feel I'm more mature now that I was five years ago," said Duran, who also was lightweight champion for most ofthe 1970's and welterweight champion in 1980. "I've learned a lot from people and the press." 
Both Duran and Hagler have 
handled the pressure of preparing 
for each other and dealing with the 
media with patience and touches of 
humor. 
Hagler, talking about the fight, 
said there was no reason for Duran 
to showup. 
Then, grinning, the champion, 
who is guaranteed 115 million and 
might get about S8 million for fight­
ing Duran, quickly said, "I can't tell 
him, 'Don't show up.' Just tell him 
he's in trouble." 
The two fighters accidently met 
~~:.,~;:~ 
I 
will be at Scottsdale Mall November 10-13 with an enormous selection of Beatie items, baseball cards, movie posters, S rock group pins and buttons, and ~ quality nostalgia and memorabilia. ~ November 10 · 13, 2nd floor by L.S. Ayres 
j

L.r....o--~....oo"'J'"~..o"'....o-"~..oQ 
THOMAS MORE: 

His Defense of 
"............ "............. the Eucharist in the Reformation 
a lecture by Dr. Clarence Miller, Yale University 
• 
Foremost authority on Thomas More in the u.s. 

• 
Executive Editor of More's Complete Works 


Date: Wed. Nov. 9.' 1983 T.rne: 4:30 p.m. Plac.e: Little "Theatre, Lafortune 
while doing roadwork on a golf 
course Saturday morning. They are 
scheduled for two more face-to-face 
meetings before their scheduled 15­
round bout at a 15,000-seat outdoor 
arena. 
They will be together at a news 
conference this morning and at the 
weigh-in at 7:30 a.m. Thursday. 
In man-to-man betting, the 29­
year-old Hagler is the 3.5-l favorite 
to win his eighth and most impor­
tant title defense. 
Should Duran upset the odds, he 
would be only the third man to win 
three championships that were not 
juniortitles. The two who have done 
it are Bob Fitzsimmons, mid­
dleweight, heavyweight and light 
heavyweight, and Henry Armstrong, 
featherweight, welterweight and 
lightweight. 
The other four triple champions 
-Tony Canzoneri, Barney Ross, 
Wilfred Benitez and Alexis Arguello 
-each won at least one junior title. 
Benitez is the only one still fighting. 
• • •Poll 
continuedfrompage 12 
ing its 12-7 victory over East Carolina, slipped down one place to sixth with 951 points. 
Southern Methodist, a 20-6 win­ner over Rice, rose from eighth to seventh, Michigan ripped Purdue 42-10 and moved up four places to ninth, and Ohio State crushed In­diana 56-1 7 and also rose four berths to 1Oth, replacing North Carolina, which dropped from 1Oth to 19th as a result ofits 16-3 loss to Clemson. 
In the Second Ten are Maryland, Iowa, Boston College, Florida, West Virginia, Alabama, Clemson, Wash­ington, North Carolina and Pitt. Last week it was Oklahoma, BYl1, Michi­gan, Ohio State, Iowa, Boston Col­lege, West Virginia, Notre Dame, Alabama and Washington. 
Applications for the position of 
Assistant Sports Editor 
are now being 
accepted. See Mike Sullivan the Observeroffice. 
The deadline is Friday, November1'1 

The Observer Wednesday, November 9, 1983-page 10 

show Notre Dame. For a detailed outlook on the Penn State-Notre Dame game, see Chuck Freeby's story on page 12. 
Finale at De Paul 
Meyer excited about this season 
ByJOE MOOSHIL 
Associated Press 

If Ray Meyer had to do it over, he wouldn't do it. 
Mt·yer announced a year ago that this would be his 42nd and final season as DePaul's head basketball coach, and then he would turn over tht' job to his son and top assistant, joey Meyer. 
"There's been too much fuss and it's only beginning," said Meyer, who will he 70 on Dec. 18. "It's dis­tracting and I don't like to be the center of attention. The team and the university are bigger. 
"I suppose it will be the same everywhere we go. 'Come see Ray Meyer in his final season,' with everybody planning special events like 'Ray Meyer's final appearance' and things of that nature," groaned Meyer. "I just hope it doesn't affect the players." 
Tht· hustle is understandable. 
In his 4 I seasons, Meyer has a record of 697 victories against 3S I dekats. lk has had 36 winning seasons, I I seasons with 20 or more victories including six in a row. Mt•yer's tt·ams have made 12 NCAA tournamt·nt appearances plus seven in tht· National Invitation Tourna­ment. 
But only once has Meyer made it to the NCAA "final Four" -in 1979 when the Blue Demons finisht·d third. It's something he wants to savor again. 
"I know it's shooting for the moon, but I'd like to make the Final Four once more." he said. "If we do, it'll he wonderful. If we don't, well, we'll want to have a good year anyway. 
Meyer is especially high on two freshmen -6-foot-I 0 Dallas Com­egys from Philadelphia and 6-7 Lawrence West from San Diego. 
"Dallas is a great taknt," said Mt·yer. "lie can set his own goals and be as great as he wants to be. West is beginning to find himself. They are going to play a lot. 
"Ifyou think we ran in other years, just wait," said Meyer. "If teams play us 94 feet, we'll he great. But most of them will want to play us halfcourt.'' 
Meyer says he expects the coach­ing changeover from father to son to go smoothly. 
"No problems at all,'' he said. "In recent years Joey has had more and more input inw the team. He is wil­ling and able. When the time comes it will he nothing and the program will go on and on and could even he 
·,· better." · · · · • • -­in coaching so long if it hadn't been prove our record without too much for Joey. He has taken a great burden difficulty and the team will get off me." stronger as the season goes on. 
Meyer believes his last team will "We want to improve on offense improve on last year's record of 21-and we need more intensity. We 12, which included four victories in need consistency rather than the NIT before losing in the cham­playing in the peaks and valleys. To pionship game to Fresno State 69-be a good team you have to be good 
60. every night. The defense is coming 
"Last year's NIT experience along fine. We're a better defensive should give us added poise and team today than we were in the NIT stability,'' he said. "We should im-last year. 
THE DRESS-UP BOX 51333 U.S. 31 N. South Bend, IN 46637 277-4774 
Resale clothes and craft items!
·r-----------------,
I I 
1 10 percent off 1I purchase with this I Open Mon, Tues, Thurs, 1 coupon and student 1 Fri, Sat: 9-5 I 1.0. I Closed Wed and Sun I Good until Nov. 20 I 
I I 
~------------------~ 
THEOLOGY ATSMC, SPRING 1984 

On Wednesday, November 9, 6:00-9:00 pm in Room 330 O'Shaughnessy, ND students may register for SMC theology courses. ND students may also pick up at that time course descriptions and schedules for the regular registration periods at SMC on No­vember 14 and 16. 
Basketball recruits sign letters today 
ByJANE HEALEY 
AssistantSports Editor 
Today is opening day co high school basketball players around the country. From now until November I 6, those seniors who have made up their minds about where to play col­lege basketball can officially sign let­ters ofintent to the universities they have chosen. 
Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps will gladly he receiving three of those signed letters in the next two weeks. 
Yesterday afternoon the third senior to name Notre Dame as his prospective college announced his decision to the media. That young man is Dave Rivers of Jersey City, 
N.J. One of 13 children, Rivers at­tends St. Anthony's High School in his hometown. 
"We're very excited about having Dave join us," Phelps said. "He has a dimension I have yet to see in my 13 years at Notre Dame. He's a point guard who can dominate a game." 
Rivers is a 6'0 guard with excep­tional speed among his many talents. Last season, he averaged 19.5 points a game. He added six rebounds and six assists to the team effort while his quickness and anticipation gave him an average of three steals an outing. 
St. Anthony's ended its season with a 27-2 record in River's junior year. 
"He's a quick kid," Assistant Sports Information Director John Heisler said. "He's suppose to be a real magician with the ball." 
Among the awards that Rivers gathered last season, he was named the Most Valuable Player in the State Tournament (New Jersey Parochial Class B) in which St. Anthony's won. He also wa!> an All-State selection in New jersey and the Hudson County Player of the year. 
Rivers had narrowed his choices down to three schools -Notre Dame, Villinova, and Seton Hall ­before pinpointing Notre Dame as the school. He had at one time con­sidered those schools along with Boston College, De Paul, and North Carolina State. 
When Rivers announced the Irish as his final decision, he alluded to the success of other New jersey natives under the dome. Some ofthe notable arc John Shumate, Kelly Tripuka, and Bill Paterno. 
Rivers joins two other seniors who are also Notre dame bound. The first is Matt Beeuwsaert, a 6'6 forward from Santa Ana, Calif. Beeuwsaert is currently at Mater Dei HighSchool. 
From the Bronx, Gary Vosc will be joining the Irish squad. He is a 6'9 big man at Tolentine High School. 
With these three players already declaring their intent, Phelps will now search for one player to round out his recruiting year. No definite position or ability has been designated as the goal in his search. 
If that senior doesn't appear by November 16, Phelps and the can­didates will have several months to make any more decisions. The next offiCial signing period doesn't open until April. 
Notre Dame Financial Institution Series 


Tonight 8PMin the CCE Auditorium 
RICHARD DALRYMPLE 
Executive Vice -President European -American Bank 

Topic: "Survival in the World of Financial Service Giants" 
-Sponsored by the N.D. Finance Club 
r----------------..,;clip & save--------------, 
PARTY! PARTY! 
PARTY SUBS 

3 Meats, 2 Cheeses & Choice of Toppings 
3  feet  serves  20·25 ... $30.00  
4  feet  serves  25-30 ... $37 .50  
5  feet  serves  30-35 ... $45.00  
6  feet  serves  35-40 ... $50.00  

ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS &SALADS 
___ e_I_I

~c:»cJlC~~----------------------------------w_oo__ne_~_a_y_,N_o_¥_an__~_r_·9_,_t9_s_3 ~__ 
Bloom Cou11.ty 
UXJK, MUS!-1­FOR-BPAINS ••• 

HW..O... 
YOJ'V€. GOT 

AMNG MJK ... NUMOCR Fm. WHY ~'T 
1'17 Ul<£11-e 
6XCV5£ rT'S NOJ' ft\E.ANT ''HAROU''5 YOU (..()OK IT 
friE ? FOR 5TUFFIN6 Ht.RRJN& PALAC£" UP YOJR5€if ( 
MA~ I 


Fate 

CLICK, CLIU:., OtT ./)IT OtT /JIT CLICK, /)IT 
D1T Bzzz.zzzzz 

Mellish 
I KNEW I !.HOULDN'T 1-!A~E 6£liE~fD THAT WELL, F11., INDIANA~\ 111'1 !\fRAil> CRA~y INDIAN.IIE TOLD TIIE~ES ME. 1 WAS IN STILL 1/DP~. 
FlO~IDAl 

The Daily c:rossword 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 11/9/83 


1-1£'1, 'WHAT OlD YOU JUST {)07 
THIS TwO-BIT UI'IOCt­UNq BUTTON PuSHtN HOOStEI? JUST 
HOPE{! I'M RUINED. I'LL 6£ TI-lE LAIAGIIING STO'~ OF MY I'RJE5TLY OADE~. THEY SENT /11!'. TO fOI.INO A CATHOLit UNIVt'llSITy IN SW/INY 
FLOIIIOA ANO 1 WJNI> LIP IN 
/f-1 F'INI.:!ItfO! kAP~T f 
I 
ACROSS 33 Deserve 1 Vocalist 34-bar· 5 Green gaining 
gemstones 35 Temporarily 10 Bacterium 38 Margin 14 Instigate 39 One of the 15 Soft palate Turners 16 Melody 40 Non·con· 17 Rarely formist 20 Successful 41 Whiskey 
return in 42-LeMoko 
tennis 43 Philippine 21 Fall short city 22 "Valse-" 44 Swing 23 Detect music 24 German veto 45 Symbol of 25 Damage peace 28 Authorof 46 Recognition 
"Utopia" 49 Progenitor 29 Nibbled 50 Audit man 32 Proper and 53 Occasion· 
collective ally 
Tuesday's Solution 
-· 

1119183 

Berke Breathed 

Photius 
YtxJ. CM'T [X) 7HII~ T'M A1.11o::r II 
SECOND SEME'STER ';ENtDf? ( 
f CAN'T EVEN\ HEAr? VOU. 
Dave &Dave 
IIUT fATI/fll, THIS IS TilE. Ml~w£Sr
1 
~AND OF TIMBER Alii> WILDLIFE. WHERE. THt HOT SMMM£RS AND 6R"TAl WIIITW TfST AMAN'.:! DfVOT/(111 AND toHMH­HEIIT TO ••• WEll WHY I>IWT YOW JIIST /ISK SOMEONE FOR DI~EtTIOII~ ~ 
\~ 
56 Atlantic 26 Tempera· City com· mental petit or 27 Cleanse 
57 Threefold 28 New England 
58 Bundle state 
of yarn 29 Pretext · -'' 59 Despot 30 Belief 60 Painter 31 Before eye 
Winslow or scout 61 Sicilian 33 Resting site place for troops 
DOWN 34 Annoyance 1 Excited 36 The crucial 2 Solitary hour 3 Diplomacy 37 Dared 
4 Keatsian 42 Commisera· verse tion 5 Upperclass· 43 Amen-man 44 Court 6 Nautical figure command 45 Actress 
7 Nicknames Keaton 8 Annex 46 Spanish 9 White table painter 
wine 47 Sts. 10 Street 48 Riverin 
urchin Siberia 11 Cupid 49 Frolicin 12 Public the water 
tumult 50 Informal 13 Horsehair conversa· 18 Mischievous tlon 19 Cleveland's 51 Neighbor 
lake ofMd. 23 Health, in 52 "MyWay" Bordeaux composer 24 Bellini 54 Spanish opera gold 25 Suggest 55 Article 
' 
Campu~ : 
•3:30 
p.m. -FUm, "Missiles of October," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Govt. Dept, 

•4:
15 p.m. -Lecture, "Central America: U.S. Policy and the Role of the Church," Lawrence A. Pezzullo, 115 Law Building, Sponsored by Kellog Institute and Pastoral Social Ministry· 

•4:20 
p.m -Physics Colloquium, "Nuclear In­teractions of Si Beams: Elastic, Quasi Elastic, and Deep Inelastic," Prof James}. Kolata, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "A Survey of the Classifica­tion of Finite Simple Groups, Part III," Dr. Daniel Gorenstein, 226 CCMB 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Conjugation and Sex Phermones inStreptococcus faecalis," Dr. D. B. Clewell, 278 Galvin life Sciences 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Thomas More: His Defense ofthe Eucharist in the Reformation," Prof Clarence Miller, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, Michael C. Lane, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Arnold Air Society 

•6:
15 p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Kiwanis 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -FUm, "History of the World, Part I," Enigneering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Union 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation/Reception, by Inland Steel-Systems Division/Associate Consultant,. Alumni Room of Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, All Majors welcome 

•7 
p.m. -College Republican Meeting, 204 O'Shaughnessy 

•7 
p.m. -AMNESlY International, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -ND/SMC Right to Life Meeting, 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture and Reading, "In the Land or' Legna," Prof Paul Roche, Library Lounge 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Primacy of Religious Toleration," Prof David A.}. Richards, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Performing Arts Series, "The Hero with a Thousand Faces," National Theatre of the Deaf, O'Laughlin Auditorium, S5 for .adults, and S2 for students 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Survival in the World of Financial Service Giants." Richard Dalrymple, CCE Auditorium, Sponsored by Finance Club 

•8:15 
p.m. -Concert, Music Department, with guest PenelopeJensen, Annenberg Auditorium 


Far -Side ~ ·_.--'.:· ~ · 

"Well, Bobby, it's not like. you haven't been warned ... No roughhousing under the hor­nets' nest!" 

• TONIGIHT AND TOMORROW 
Wednesday Night 
•
• Sponsored BEER SPECIAL 
:ENGINEERIN by the
eA 
Notre Dame Student Union 

GREAT CASH GIVEAWAY D.J. ISNOW$55! BILL DAVIS 
. 
r 
.. ••••••••••• 
r----------------~~~-~--~ 

The Notre Dame field hockey team ended its season at the Dayton Invitational tournament. Thouxh the team did notfare well in the competi-
Lose Dayton Invitational 
Field hockey ends 'good' season 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 

This year. the Fighting Irish field hockey team faced tougher com­petition than ever before, according to Head Coach Jan Bishop, but "had a lot more attack (and) some real fine players." 
Ovt·r tht· weekend, the Irish endt·d their season against difficult competition but made a strong showing against Division I teams in the Dayton Invitational. 
St. Louis. the eventual winner of the round robin tournament, revenged an early season loss to Notre Dame with a 2-1 victor t yin the opening game. Next, the Irish built a two goal lead against the Louisiville Cardinals but were overcome in ovenime 4-3. Dayton held the Irish 
winless in  the  tournament  with  a  
heartbreaking  1-0  victory  over  
Notre Dame.  

An optimistic Bishop, neverthe­less, wao; pleased with Notre Dame's showing in the tournament. 
"My players played all out," she explained."It was a beautiful effort. 
"We had a lot ofshots on goal, but we couldn't score the one we needed. It wao; real good competi­tion for us." 
After a 13-9 record of a year ago, the Irish finished at a mark of I 1-9-2 with a schedule boasting half Divi­sion I scholarship teams. One of their long-range goals for this year was to beat one ofthose teams. They beat two (Toledo and St. Louis) and "came awfully close to three more," according to Bishop. 
"Considering the schedule upgrading and all, I'd say that it was 
(a) pretty good (record)," she said. 
Offensively, tht· Irish had a more potent attack this year led by senior Clare Henry (Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer) and freshman Corinne DiGiacomo. 
"She (Clare Henry) is one of my best players -question," said Bis­hop who alluded to the possibility of DiGiacomo capturing the scoring lead by the end of next year. 
When not on the attack, Bishop was pleao;ed with her defense which was "better than it wa-; last year. "She was exteremely pleao;ed with sopho­more goaltender Patti Gallagher. 
"She came from never playing (to heing the staner ),"Bishop said. "She (Gallagher) just has the best 
·atritude, and .she's an aggressive player -not afraid to fall and dive for the hall, sh~ follows the hall out, and she's a team player. 
"This year was a real good learn­improve in their transition game. ing year (for her) but she also held They must develope strong inter­us up as well as the goallies in the change players from their more past and that's saying a lot for a soph­natural position players. omore." The Irish will be losing seven 
Overall, this season was a good seniors, but are fortunate to have one for the Irish as they proved to be eight experienced players returning competitive with Division I teams (with only one of'-them being a both in the Midwest and in the East. senior next year). The team came together well and "While we're losing a lot in the there was consistent leadership Senior class," commented Bis­from Captains Jan Hlavin and Joan hop,"the people that are right be­Totten. According to Bishop, "It hind them are not very far behind (the Senior leadership) came them, so I don't think the team will through very nicely." lose a whole lot. 
Next year, the Irish will be led by a "I think they're just going to keep goalkeeper with experience, a building which is neat." strong defense led by Christina With an extremely strong sopho­Weinmann, some "very strong" more class and an excellent Junior wing-halfbacks, and a good scorer in Varsity program, the independent DiGiacomo. Irish will have to be reckoned with 
The Irish. however, will have to in the future. 

Pitt knocks the Irish out of AP football poll 
Associated Press back out ofthe rankings. At the top of the chart, Nebraska, 
The University of Pittsburgh, Texas, Auburn and Georgia retained which knocked off Notre Dame last the top four positions while Miami, Saturday, also succeeded in knock­fifth a week ago, and Illinois, former­ing the Fighting Irish out of The As­ly sixth, traded places. sociated Press College Football Poll Nebraska, an easy 72-29 winner on yesterday. over Iowa State, received 58 of 60 
Pitt's Panthers, 21-16 winners in first-place votes and 1,198 of a pos­Sth Bend improved their record sible 1,200 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and 
sportscasters.
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The As­

Texas, which squeaked past Hous­
sociated Press poll. wrth first-place votes 1n paren­

ton 9-3, got the two remaining first­
theses, this season·s records and total points. Potnts based on 20·19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are 

place ballots and I,140 points. Last 
ltlllicized. 

week the Cornhuskers received 57 
of 59 first-place votes and out­
1 Nebraska (58) 10-0-0 1,198 
2 Texas (2) 8-0-0 1,140 

pointed the Longhorns I, 178-1,123
3. Auburn 8-t-0 1.063 4 Georgta 8-0-1 999 
in the balloting. 
5. IllinOIS 8-1-0 975 

Auburn, receiving 1,063 points in 
6. Miami fJ-1·0 951 

the voting, held on to third place
7. So. Methodist 7-1-0 8!5 8 Bngham Young 8-t-0 650 

with a 35-23 victory over Maryland 
9. MICh~gan 7-2-0 642 

that dropped the Terrapins from
10. Ohio State 7-2-0 557 ft. Maryland 7-2-0 530 

seventh place to 1 I th while Georgia, 
12. Iowa 7-2-0 528 

a I 0-9 winner over Florida,
13. Boston College 7-1-0 508 14. Flonda 6-2-1 506 

remained fourth with 999 points 
15 West Virgtnia 7-2-0 298 

ands dropped the Gators from ninth 
16. Alabama 6-2-0 258 
to 14th.
17. Clemson 7-1-1 257 18 Washington 7-2-0 210 

Auburn's Tigers visit the Bulldogs 
19. North Carolina 7-2-0 207 

on Saturday, with Georgia gunning
20. Pittsburgh 7-2-0 199 

for the Southea-;tern Conference title and a founh consecutive trip to
to 7-2 and returned to the Iop 
the Sugar Bowl. 
Twenty for the first time in seven Illinois moved up to fifth with 975weeks, clinging to 20th place. 

points by virtue of its 50-23 pound­Notre Dame, absent· from· the list ing of Mimi.esota and Miami, follow-
for four weeks before moving intv a tie for 19th place two weeks ago and 
..._;_seePdti.;page·9 ·'· 
edging up one spot last week, fell 

Wednesday,November9, 1983-page 12 
Irish battle turnovers 
_I
against Penn State 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 


Hello again, everybody! 
If God handed down commandments for winning f()()tball games, one of those decrees would have to he "Thou shalt not turn the ball over". The Irish committed five "mortal sins" lao;t Saturday in their loss to Pittsburgh, and eliminated themselves from the m~jor howl picture. 
However, all is not lost for Gerry Faust and the Fighting Irish. The Fiesta Bowl would love to have Notre Dame go to Tempe, Arizona on January 2 if the Irish win their next two games. That's a mighty big "if', conidering the Irish must travel to State College, Pa. and faceJoe Paterno's Penn State Nittany Lions on Saturday afternoon. While thb Penn State team is one ofthe weakest Patt·rno squads in recent years, it is still a fine football team, and the Irish had better come out fired up. 
The Rise and Fall of the Paterno Empire .. .joe Paterno has seen the top and bottom of the mountain in 19H3. On New Year's Day, Paterno finally captured the first national championship of his illustrious career, as Penn State edged Georgia, 27-23, in tht· Sugar Bowl. 
Unfortunately for Paterno, success wao; short-lived. After being embarassed by Nebraska in the season opener, theNittany Lions lost to Cincinnati and Iowa in successive weeks, and Penn State fans were calling for Paterno's resignation (sounds familiar, doesn't it?). 
Since that time, though, Paterno appears to be reascending towards the summit. Penn State has knocked off Alabama and West Virginia on their way to winning six oftheir last seven outings. 
How Fast Is Pinkett ...Thanks to the Notre Dame Sports In­formation Department for this next tidbit: Notre Dame sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett visited Hershey,_ Pa., in June for a Multiple Sclerosis Dinner·of Champions. Pinkett, who returned a kickoff 92 yards for a score last fall against Penn State, was quizzed about his speed. 
"You're listed at 4.7 for the 40," was the question. "How fast are you really?" Pinkett quipped, "Faster than Penn State" -aremark that brought a laugh even from Penn State coachJoe Paterno. 
State Stuff ...Rest a-;sured, this is not the same Penn State team that lost to Cincinnati. Paterno has found a potent offensive attack, led by a pair of fine running backs. Freshman sensation D.J. Dozier has run for nearly 900 yards in the first ten games, and he has speed to burn. He is complemented nicely by bruising fullback Jon Wil­liams, who has averaged over five yards per carry. 
When the Lions go to the air, they rely on sophomore quarterback Doug Strang. He has thrown for 14 touchdowns, and he has some great targets to which he can throw. Senior flanker Kenny Jackson has been rated by Irish cornerback Stacey Toran as the best receiver he has ever gone up against, and he is supponed by split end Kevin Baugh ( 31 catches) and tight end Dean DiMidio ( I 5 receptions). 
The PSU defense is headed up by Harry Hamilton, who has 74 tackles from his hero back spot, which is a combination between linebacker and safety. He receives plenty ofsupport from end Steve Sefter (66 stops) and linebacker Scott Radecic (59 tackles). The main weakness of the Lion defense is a tendency to give up Jots of passing yardage. Four Penn State opponents have thrown for more than 335 yards against its defense. 
Domer Dope ...The big question is back in the minds of Irish fans again: Who will start at quarterback? Steve Beuerlein had his worst outing ofhis career last week, while Blair Kiel did a fine job in the waning minutes against a Pitt defense that knew he was going to throw. Both quanerbacks have shown promise, but neither hao; shown consistency this year -and that's something the Irish attack desperately needs. 
Whoever starts will be handing off to Allen Pinkett most of the afternoon. Unless disaster strikes in the form ofan injury, Pinkett will become the third Irish runner to surpass the I ,000-yard plateau in a sc.ason. However, the size of the holes he has had to run through could diminish with the loss oftackles Larry Williams and Mike Per­rino to injuries. 
Defensively, the Irish will put Joe Bars into the starting lineup to replace the injured Mike Kovaleski at linebacker. The defense will be looking to recover some pride after taking a beating from the Pitt offensive line, and they will have their hands full with the diversified Nittany Lion attack. 
Fair Catches ...Congratulations to Irish split end Mike Favorite, who was recently honored with a post-graduate scholarship as one ofthe top st~dent-athletes in the nation ...The Irish are among the stat leaders m several categories. Pinkett is seventh in the nation in rushing and scoring, while the Irish defense ranks third overall sixth in scoring, and eighth in pass defense ...WSND-AM will bro~dcast the game from Beaver Stadium, with kickoffscheduled for 1 :00 p.m. 
Pick ofthe Week ...This week, the nod goes to the Irish hockey team ofCoach Lefty Smith, who will host Illinois this weekend under the north dome of the Athletic and Convocation Center. Last weekend, the Irish coasted to a 3-0 start, crushing very weak teams from Illinoi~ State_ and Northwestern. However, the Fighting Illini should provade a httle stiffer competition for the Irish icers. 
Co-captain Brent Chapman, along with high-scoring defenseman Bob Theb~au wi~llead a. potent Irish scoril;t~~tack, which O!Jtscored­op~>.n~nts 37.·~ an fhe fit:st three contests. Fac;eoffbegins at 7:30p.m. 
. , on both Fa:i<,i~Y. and Sat~fQ'IY nights. . . _ . · ~ · .., ·... · ' ' 

