
VOL XVlll, NO. 4 the intll'pentknt stutknt nev. spaper serYing notre Jame and saint mary's THlJRSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1983 
Out-of-court decision made in Go Irish suit 
By MIKE WILKINS Fighting Irish football." SeniorStaffReporter Groves noted that other terms of the agreement require the publica­
Notre Dame and Fan Action Inc. tion to print disclaimers in each 
have reached an out-of-court agree­issue and advertisement stating that 
ment that will settle a pair of law­it is not and never has been affiliated 
suits involving Go Irish, a local with or sanctioned by the university. 
publication covering Notre Dame Notre Dame, in turn, will be re­
football. quired to grant basic press privileges 
The agreement will settle a law­to the publication. 
suit filed by Fan Action in September In addition, Blue And Gold Il­oflast year claiming that the Univer­
lustrated will not be allowed to use
sity was interfering with the normal Notre Dame trademarks anywherebusiness operation of its publica­in the pubication. Philip Faccenda,tion, Go Irish. The University later legal counsel for the University,countersued, claiming that the declined comment until the agree­publication was trying to make itself ment has been signed. 
appear to be connected with Notre 
Dame. Both sides seemed pleased with 
The terms of the agreement, the results of the agreement and which were signed and submitted to expressed confidence that the Starke County Circuit Court last agreement would be signed soon. "I week, require the publication to think the parties involved have change its title, according to james reached this agreement in an Groves, attorney for Fan Action. amicable manner," Groves said. 
The publication has been "Everybody was pleased that we 
renamed Blue and Gold Illustrated, were able to settle this thing out of 
but will be allowed to keepGo Irish court," added John Heisler, as­
as a subtitle through the end of the sociate sports information director. 
current football season. It will also "I think the thing is pretty much 
be allowed to keep its slogan, "the over at this point." 
newsmagazine devoted exclusively Representatives from Fan Action 
to the coverage of Notre Dame could not be reached for comment. 

The Observer/Scott Bower Haggar College Center opens at Saint Mary's 
By CINDY BOYLE Pizza. StaffReporter Also located in the college center are rooms for meetings and 
The Haggar College Center, Saint workshops, areas for movies, infor­Mary's new multi-purpose college mal recitals and displays, a facility, is finally open. hospitality room, and an information 
The two-year, $1.4 million desk. A terrace was added to the rear 
renovation to the old Alumnae Cen­ofthe building. tennial Library provides students Saint Mary's stu.dents are excited and faculty with a new, informal about the campus addition. "It 
meeting place on campus. Among provides students with new oppor­the additions to the four-story tunities to grow in a social environ­structure is the Shaheen Bookstore, ment," said Susan Heleringer, a loc"ated on the north side of the junior. ground floor. Fellow junior Maura Bruen com­
Student Government, Student Ac­mented, "It's a good place for friends tivities, 1st Source Travel, The Ob­to meet and for everyday activities." server. and the Blue Mantle "It's nice and convenient," said yearbook have all relocated their Anne-Marie Boblick, a sophomore. offices in the Haggar Center from "It has a lot to offer, especially the other buildings. 1st Source Bank has bookstore." added a branch office in the new "I think it's wonderful," said center. Bookstore Manager Barbara Racine. 
Students can enjoy video games, "We don't have much more space, pool, ping-pong and foosball in the per se, but we have added paper­Brezny Game Room, located on the backs and magazines to the ground floor. There are several dif­tradebook section." ferent dining formats in the second­The center, a gift of the Haggar floor Snack Bar, including Bun Foundation of Dallas, Texas, and the Appetite (a grill line); the Deli (deli­Shaheen family of Sturgis, Michigan, style sandwiches), the Corner will be officially dedicated on Sep­Market, (cash and carry); and Wild tember 16. 

The sophomore class sponsored an ice cream Center. The event was one ofmany that have been socialyesterday outside ofthe LaFortune Student held during Welcome Week. 
Swimrning pool plans finalized 
ByPATSAIN Two bulkheads that stretch across faculty, and staff. The ACC will also Copy Editor the pool are the key to its flexibility. gain office space, with about 12 new The bulkheads rest on the side gut­offices to be built in the pool build­
Plans for a swimming pool ad­ters, and can be rolled up and down ing. jacent to t t he ACC are in the final the length of the pool. "We could Space for 350 spectators will be stages. have diving at one end of the pool, provided in a balcony above the 
The new pool will be 50 meters recreational swimming in the pool. 
long and 25 yards wide, and features middle, and water polo at the other The pool facility will be added to two moveable bulkheads, making it end," said Dedrick. the back of the ACC, starting at gate a multi-purpose facility. Construc­An instructional deck will be a 6 and going north toward gate 5. The tion of the four-million-dollar pool, major feature of the new pool. Part loading dock at gate 6 will have to be which is being designed by Ellerbe of the deck will be separated from moved because the pool will block Architects, is expected to start in the pool by a glass wall, and part will it, Dedrick noted. March of next year, weather permit­be in the pool area itself. The fence along Cartier field will 
ting. The diving area at one end of the also be moved back about ten feet to 
"The pool has absolute pool will have three one-meter make room for a road behind the flexibility," said Physical Plant diving boards and two t three-meter pool building. Director Don Dedrick. "It will not boards. Entry to the pool will be either be used strictly for competition, but Lockers will be provided for stu­through the ACC or from doors next also for instruction and recreation." dents, the varsity swim teams, to gate 5. 
redestrian mall plans completed 
JPATSAIN places, and sycamores have been planted to give shade. 
~yEditor Paving bricks will be embedded in the concrete, for­i ming a visual focus at the center of the crosswalk. ; Plans have been finalized for sidewalks and an eating The area also provides a visual end to the mall, which 
area on the new mall, says Physical Plant Director Don has been made into an extension ofthe west lawn ofthe Dedrick. library. "We continued the line of sycamores going 
Students will no longer have to walk around a sandy west from the library," said Dedrick. The X-pattern of desert on the way to classes or the library. "The place sidewalks will also be duplicated down the mall. where the old fieldhouse used to be" will soon be The mall was not finished during the summer be­covered with grass and sidewalks, and possibly a foun­cause of the many steam tunnels, sewer lines, and tain. sprinklers, as well as the fieldhouse foundations which 
Benches, grassy hills, and trees are other features of had to be removed or replaced. the new mall which Dedrick hopes to make a meeting Acontinuation ofthe mall will be found in front ofthe area for the Notre Dame community. Center for Social Concerns in the form of a concrete 
In Dedrick's opinion, an especially important part of and brick patio. the mall will be the paved-over area near the LaFortune A fountain might be constructed in the center of the Student Center. Benches will provide eating and resting mall, but no plans have been made yet, noted Dedrick. 
' ......., .. 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
I, 'l
I, ~ ! 
'I 
i ~ 
I 
,•~ 
'.f 
'i 
; 
The Observer 
. 
In Brief · 
More than 600 people attended a funeral service )TMnday li>r 26 ~IUdent~ killed a week ago in Fengyuan, Taiwan, when the roof of their high school collapsed. The two-hour service, presided ovt_.r by Provincial (iovernor Lee Tt·ng-hui, was held at a stadium here, 100 miles southwest of Taipei. The victims, all girls, died when the roof of an auditorium believed to have been weakened by heavy rains collapsed during an orientation session for 630 newly-enrolled students. Two construction company ex­ecutives, charged with improperly repairing the roof of Fengyuan High School, were taken into custody Saturday. Chang Wu-Hsiung, chairman of the 1-l.iu Shih Construction Co., was freed on $7,900 
hail, but his brother, unable to post bail, remained in jail. -AP 
The Thames Water Authority awarded a 46­
year-otd auto mechanic a trophy, a thhing rod, and 5370 yesterday for being the tlrst angler in I SO yt·ars to hook a salmon in the River Thames. "It was nothing," said Russel Doig, from the southwest Lon­don suburb of Stanwell. "The salmon was knackered (exhausted) .. For a salmon, he didn't put I up much ofa tight." Doig rc:ded the six-pound 12-ounce salmon into his boat on Aug. 2; near Chertsey Weir pool, upstream from the capital. Hugh Fish, chicfcx­c:cutin· of the water authority, said at the award ceremony that Doig'~ catch proves anti-pollution efforts have succeeded in clean­ing up the river. "The catching of a salmon by rod and line proves beyond all douht that the Thames is now clean and will support even the most fastidious of t1sh," ht· said. -AP 
Arabic-speaking hijackers freed their last 
1s 

hostages from an Air france jetliner in Tehran yesterday and then surrendered, ending a tlve-day ordeal during which they forced an American passenger to kneel on the tarmac for 45 minutes with a gun to his head. Iranian officials said t1ve hijackers gave themselves up, hut Air france and the freed hostages said there were four in the group that seized the jet Saturday on a flight from Vienna to Paris and diverted it to Tehran Sunday. They released more than 90 other 
passengers at stops along the way. Dr. SS-year-old wife, Margaret Ann, of Brimt1eld, Mass., were among the eight passengers and st:ven crew freed in Tehran. They and the others were unharmed and will tly to Paris today. -AP 
The Parthenon, one of the glories of ancient Greece, has lost some of its glory over two millennia and the government has announced an amhitious project to restore some of the vanished luster. Culturt Minister Melina Mercouri announced yesterday that a w;1y had been found to restore the temple without marring its famous silhouettt· with scaltiJiding. !'or eight years experts have h~en working out a plan to save the Parthenon and the Erechtheum temple, which share the ~ummit ofthe Acropolis, high above Athens. In addition to the wear and tt·;•r of nearly 2S centuries. both monu­menb have sutlt-rnl the modnn ravagt·s of industrial pollution. Acid rain already has t·att·n away the delicatelv carved faces of the caryatids -tht· six seulpturnl kmalc ligurt·s that support a porch on the Ert•t'htheum. The govt·rnment has spt·nt more than $2.; mil­lion in tht· past six years rt·storing the Acropolis temples. which art: visitnl by an t·stimatnl S,OOO to I0.000 people daily. -.4P 
By a 2 to 1 margin, Americans would prefer a new national salt's tax over highn income taxes if soaring budget ddkits Ioree tht· govrrnment to lind new rt·n·nut·s, ao:ording to a Gallup poll commissioned hy a fnkral·statc panel. The Advisory Commis­sion on lntngon·rnmental Relations said Wednesday the survey found that the income tax, t·onsidcrnl by most economists to be the most progressive limn of taxation. is viewt·d by .he public as the kast 1;1ir tax it pays. Tht· revolt against the income tax follows pock­t'thook intnt'Sb, the survey also tilUnd, with higher income groups giving much more support for the sales tax than lower income respondents. Asked what would be tht· best way to raise federal taxes. if that become~ necessa~·. S2 pen:ent of those polled chose a new national sales tax on all purchases other than food. Twenty-four pt-rct•nt preferred higher income taxes and 2S percent said they didn't know. -AP 
Weather · 
Mostly sunny today. High in the mid 80s. Clear at night. Low in the low 60s. Sunny tomorrow and very warm. Highs in the upper 80s. -AP 
I I,. 

Thursday, September 1, 1983-page 2 
· 

Smothered by concrete 
Not only docs Notre Dame install sculpture, renovate buildings and bulldoze dirt during the summer. it also plants sidewalks. And if you ever doubted the fact that sidewalks grow and reproduce, just look around LaFortune, the infir­mary or the Library. 
Sidewalks? But how could anyone be so frivilous as to criticize simple concrete? Don't people have better things to do than to waste their time talking about sidewalks? 
But come to think of it -we've ended the Campbell's Soup Threat and copped out on a uni­lateral nuclear freeze. It's time to move on to a new cause. 
No one can deny that Notre Dame is a pedestrian campus. Cars travel only the periphery -students and faculty need only fear golf carts and delivery trucks. It is only too bad that Notre Dame has never realized that retaining its architec­tural character means more than buildings brown-yellow bricks and slate. 

Have our architects ever thought of giving as much thought to the sidewalks as to trees which are unsuited for Indiana or to windows which can't open? 
Architects attempt to give Notre Dame a peculiar style, free ofurban blight and sprawl. But each time students walk on the sidewalks, can they help feeling offended by sidewalks that are hot enough for eggs in summer and treadless in winter? 
One need only visit any Eastern or European school to see how seriously architects take sidewalks. Sidewalks are statements of direction, not mere paths between buildings. And those hrick and cobblestone surfaces not only look bet­
~The_Obser_v:er__ 

In the past, when a nation felt threatened by unruly mobs, the Queen called her professionals the Royal Lancers. Today, when you feel threatened by unruly hair, call on the 
Composition Editor..... Suzanne: La Croix 

professionals at
Composition Assistant .... Carole: Laugit'r 
TJ•f)('setter...... . ................. Nick Laflamme '\/eu•s Editor ... .......................... Vic Sciulli, 
& Annt: Monast~·rski CofJI' Editor... . ...................... Tom ,\lowlc Sports COfJJ' Editor .................Jane tkatn Editurials LttJ•out .............. Kt·n Cerahona VIJ !Ja1• Editor .. .......................,lane Panlil Ad IJesig11 ... . ......................... 1\ill & Bob Pbofo!(rapber... ...................... Pelt' I.ac.:h,_·s 


University Commons Courtyard
Guest .4fJfJt•urances .Thc: Somnamhuknr .\1.;magt.·r. As:-.onc:tl Hgun.·hc:ads 

(S.R. 23 next to Tempo Fashions) 
Men and Woman's Hairstyling 272-7880 

pur on a ~own 
th;u touchc:s the.: ground; tloal on a rivc:r fort.>ver and t"Vt·r . 
-Pink Floyd 

: 
:
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
:
Monday, Sept. 5, 7-10PM, Stepan Center·~ 
·::~ :· 
Clubs and organizations wishing to have a ·:•••
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday through Fnday 

table at Activities Night must sign up by this 
·:
except dunng exam and vacat1on 

Friday, 4 PM, at Student Activities office, 1st ••
penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and 

.;
Floor, LaFortune. 
Sa1n1 Marys College Su1Jscnpt1ons 

:~ 
may be purchased lor $30 per year 

·:
1$15 per semester) by wntmg TheOb· server, P 0 Box Q Notre Dame. Jn­

:·:
dtana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of the 

:
Assoc1ated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 

(Doors open at 6:30 PM for set up) ·: 
Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursd 

ter, they work better, too. They're cooler in sum­mer and less slick in winter. And they last longer. 
One must applaud the work ofthe maintenance crew this summe t r, however. Paths which were deserts in summer and myres in rain have become sidewalk, all be they huge sidewalks. Planners finally decided to follow the suggestions psycho­logy teachers have been offering for many years: 
let people find paths for themselves. They will in­variably leave trodden grass and eventually blaze a dirt trail along the quickest paths between buildings. While this summer's plans followed such logic, one must ad­mit there are now quite a few sidewalks, which, little used, only deface beautiful lawns. 
It took all summer to grow that grass and a lot of nuns got wet dodging sprinklers which were 
never shut off. 

But there are ways to make concrete sidewalks useful. At Purdue University, planners there had the foresight to run heating pipes and steam tun­nels under the sidewalks. So while Notre Dame students slip and fall on ice-coated sidewalks, Purdue students walk on relatively ice-free sidewalks. Come winter, take a look at the quad­rangles. Heating tunnels leave their useless snow­free mark in untrodden dying grass. 
Ifyou're tired ofconcrete and want to see Notre Dame's sidewalks changed send your ccomments to "Plan Our Sidewalks," care ofThe Ohset-ver. 
~I 

The Observer Thursday, September 1, 1983-page 3 
Nuclear armament class begun with address by Father Hesburgh 
By THERESA GUARINO 
StaffReporter 
The nuclear dilemma has painted humans into a corner from which we must emerge together, said l'ni­versity President Father Theodore lleshurgh ye~terday at the first meeting of a new cla~s on nuclear armament. 

lleshurgh's involvement in the nuclear armament issue hegan two years ago when the university set aside ~ day to look at the issue. "It suddenly came home to me that all other issues, such as world hunger. would be irrelevant if we didn't solve the nuclear threat." he said. 
. Heshurgh then called together two groups of world scientists and religiou!' leaders in the hope that they could discuss the problem. The . scientists were needed to lend credibility to their statements, since "people tend to say that religious leaders don't know what they're talking about," Hesburgh said. 
Numerous conferences have been held in Vienna, jerusalem and the Vatican over the past several years. Thirty-six members of the Academy of Science met at the Vatican and composed a five-page statement declaring that the only answer to the nuclear dilemma is to eliminate all such weapons. 
Hesburgh also spoke about the consequences of nuclear war, saying, "at the worst we would have obliterated humanity or reduced it to the stone age. 
"The first two bombs (Hiroshima and Nagasaki) eliminated what were thriving cities, and today we have one million times this force. We possess four to five tons equivalent 
By AMY STEPHAN 
Copy Editor 
Broken screens, mattresses. and sinks, locks clogged with super glue, and punched-out ceiling tiles arc some of the remnants that 4,800 Junior Olympians left when they held their national meet at Notre Dame this summer. 
The athletes were housed in al­most every dorm on campus and caused some damage to every dorm they used. according to Father Wil­liam Beauchamp, assistant to the ex­ecutive vice president. 
Beauchamp added that "disruptive activities". which brought complaints from some sum­mn students and "overwhelmed" the hall managers, were an even lar­ger concern than the damage. 
"A general lack oforganization on 
the part of the AAll (Amateur Ath­
letic Union)" was behind the 
problem, said Beauchamp. 
The AAlJ allowed students to register late for a S5 late fee. Thus, although only 4,000 students were registered for the program, 4,800 students showed up and university officials had to tlnd housing for these unexpected guests. 
Beauchamp said, "The primary issue is supervision." Some in­dividuals arrived without coaches and other students were poorly su­pervised. 
Athletes who were eliminated 
from the competition on Wednes­
day were allowed to stay until its 
completion on Sunday. 

Beauchamp noted that the hall 
managers employed by the univer­
sity did everything they could, but 
the problem was more than they 
could han t die. In some cases these 
managers had little support from the 
adult supervisors. 

Beauchamp assumes that the school "wouldn't bring in a program like this again," but added, "If we did, we would insist upon the fact ·that the organization would supply 

The Observer/S~o:ott Bower 
Bill Rossiter and jack Gal/ugber, members of tbe group Trinitv. entertained yesterda)' in front of tbe statue ofFutber Sorin on tbe Main Quad. 
adequate supervision or we our­selves would provide supervision. 
"We thought it would be neat having theJunior Olympics here. On the surface, with the assurances we were given, it seemed like some­thing that would be good to have here," said Beauchamp, adding that officials involved are "very disap­pointed." 
"We're evaluating the whole sum­mer program," Beauchamp said. This includes summer camps that the university sponsors and other outside organizations such as The American Youth on Parade, who stayed at the campus the week before the Junior Olympics. 
"I don't want to give the impres­
sion that there were ravaging hordes 

HARDWARE 
running through the halls," said Beauchamp, "Overall, a large per­

HOME CENTER ~-1 
centage were well-behaved." 

1801 SOUTH BENDAVE(S.R.23) -~H.:()
"Everything that had to be repaired to be usable has been repaired." Beauchamp said. The 

OPEN 8-8 WEEKDAYS 9-5 SAT 10-4 SUN 
AAlJ paid for all repairs. 


Jr. Olympians' vandalism repaired 
The Science Dept of 
-Iheco 

~ObseLVer _ 
is looking for writers. Anyone interested, call Tom at 
239-5303 or 283-1421 


w' 
~;'/,.-•~l'.f',...,...,"ftf',.'-"\•.•r,.f\..'-'•'.•·,-...•,•:,·~ 
of TNT for every man. woman and child. Both the Americans and the Russians have enough to destroy the world seven times over." 
Hesburgh ended his address by encouraging class memhers to become involved with the nuclear issue, calling it "the most significant cause you'll ever have. 
"If the purpose here fails, there is the very real pos~ibility that humanity will end in your lifetime. It is the greatest moral problem ever to face humankind. and no greater sin is conceivable." 
According to Heshurgh, the nuclear solution will in p;trt he spiritual. "llltimately it'll he solved by prayers and fasting. No human problem is hopeless. We created the nuclear dilemma and we can dis­mantle it." 
"The Nuclear Dilemma" is a result 
ofan appeal made by U.S. bishops in 
their pastoral letter on war and 
peace. The letter will be used as a 
text for the class. 
Hesburgh and other course direc­
tors hope that "The Nuclear Dilem­
ma" will help students see the 
nuclear concern as something that 
must be spread throughout the 
world. Junior Kevin Coneely 
remarked, "Hesburgh's immediacy 
made me sit up and think about how 
important this class will be." 



SHELVING 

You're traveling to a new dimension... a dimension not only of sight and sound, but of fun... You're now entering.... 

continues... 

Shenanigans will sing at Fr. Sorin's statue at noon S!epan Mall continues 10-6 Dance Under the Stars 9:00 at the library reflecting pool 
Taste of N.D.--a variety of foods available at Stepan field 11·2. North Dining Hall will be closed. Sponsored by N.D. Food Service Carne Picnic--at Stepan Field, food 4-6, field games and "fl!.L.llr' til7:00--cosponsored N.D. Food Service Cartoons at Stepan·-10:30 Blazing Saddles--11 :00 PIT' at Stepan for $1.00 
Notre Dame 

Air Band comoelitjon--get your air band together to comp~te at Fr. Sorin's statue 12-4 Chance to Dance at the Polish Wedding, Stepan Center 9:00 
' ~· '5)'-s?'c}?'j·-Bus trip to Wl!.rrlmQI!llil}, tickets available -> ',,i'::J.!_t.. at S.U. Record Store. 


All from your Student Union Student Union 


......... 
.
'-' 


The Observer Thursday, September 1, 1983-page 4 

Korean jet lands on Soviet island 

SEO!IL, South Korea ( AP) ASouth The Boeing 747 had been unac­Korean jumbo jet that was missing counted for since it last gave its posi­lilr hour~ whik en route from New tion southeast of Hokkaido, Japan's York to Seoul with 269 people northernmost main island, more aboard, including a U.S. congress· than six hours before the t1rst report man, landed safely today on a Soviet that it had landed on Sakhalin. The island, Korean Air Lint's ~aid. Soviet island is north of Hokkaido. 
The airline did not say why the Among the passengers was U.S. plane had landt·d on the island of Rep. Lawrence P. McDonald, D-Ga. Sakhalin, although a KAL spokes· IIis staff said he was going to South woman in New York, Bonnie Vii· Korea to attend a ceremony marking larko, said she had been told it was a the 30th anniversary of the li.S.· liJreed landing. She said arrange· South Korea defense pact. ments were being made to send an­In Atlanta, Harold P. McDonaldJr., other plane to the island to pick up the congressman's brother, said, tht· passt·ngt·rs and bring them to "we've just heard from the State Kort·a. Department ...that the plane is 
'llllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii...H ...HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIt•• 
TONIGHT AND SATURDAY Student Union 
Presents... 
AN -~ 

OFFICER 
ANDA 
GENTLEMAN 
ENG.AUD. · $1:00 · 7,9:15,11:30 
,.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHttiHIHtlllll..llllllllllllll 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
t Do you hove artistic talent and o sense t t of humor? t 
lt The ObserYer-: t 
! is seeking o doily campus comic strip. : t For more informot:on, call Margaret at t 
t 239-5303 t ' 
t • t t t t t t t 

THUMBS UP FOR 

HOME MADE REAL CHEESE DELICIOUS 

GOODTIME PIZZA 
836 PORTAGE SOUTH BEND 
*Free Delivery To ND-SMC * 232-1883 
Sun.-Thur. 4PM -llPM Fri. -Sat. 4PM -lAM 
t, 
~ . ~, • t ... ~~ '.ft"'P"h
J,,. 

down and appar'¥Jtly the passengers are safe." There apparently was one other American on the flight. 
Yoo Sung-Wha, the wife of a professor from the University of Pittsburgh, said her husband, Yon Chung-Sum, was on board. 
However, KAL did not contirm if 
any other Americans beside 
McDonald were on the plane. 
An assistant of Rep. McDonald, 
Nelson Brown in Washington, con· 
t1rmed that the 48-year·old 
congressman an t d chairman of the 
right-wing John Birch Society was 
on the tlight. 

Aspokesman tor Sen..Jesse Helms, 
R-N.C., said McDonald was making 
the trip at the invitation of Helms 
and several other senators. 
South Korea and the Soviet Union 
have no diplomatic relations. 
Sj8 (P-"•·t-'5c·2.19-288-)6j9 
/c~-'•.csc-st7/c ~.,,..,.s 
I v/ 

fit.... sh•ffcl>s,..-.i>~···~cs re....... 1J:j(~to4:j() preted as a sign of confidence in the economy.
~/'\-1., ....--S....t.11=.Wt.,. 9:_.;o 
Also boosting the index were in­creases for the average workweek, manufacturers' new orders for con­sumer goods and materials, building

EXCLUSIVE 
permits, stock prices and the money supply, and a decline in initial week· ly claims for state unemployment

FROM BLOOM COUNTY­
benefits. One was unchanged, the speed at

AMERICA'S 
which vend(Jrs were delivering goods.

HOTTEST CARTOON STRIP 
Index components showing wor· 
sened performance in July we t<Jrmatitm of new businesses, con· tracts and orders for plant and 
equipment and sensitive materials

The world of Opus and Friends 
prices. One component, that measuring 

appears tor the first time 
on T-Shirt~ and in a book 
changes in inventories, was not available for the month. 

8.95 
t" T-Shirt 
coun, 9.95
8\oolll ntv lerse)' 8\oom cou . ~~ '" '· 
\ u\1-color de 'f, 
Bloom County Book Single Copy 5.95 
delivery 

This offer brought to vou by: 
persons 
Part or !ulll11ne. FlexitJie hours and days Must be al lt'ast 18. Must have own car anc1 msurance. 

CLIP.A D'>fNDWITHURDfR Must be able tn work 0 r-------------~--------------~ weekends. S M l XL 
The Observer 
$3.35 <~n hu to start 

Bloom Count\ l-~h1rt D 0 D D 8.95ea. 
plus m1leage and 

Bloom Count\ lerse\ D D D D 9.91ea. 
ttps 
Apply tn person

Pengum t ust T-"lh1rt 0 D 0 D 8.95ea. 
between 4:30pm 
and 9:00pm.

Pt>ngum l u;t lerse\ D D D D 9. 95ea 
1835 South Bend Ave. 

Bloom County Booh D D D D 5.9Sea 
O South Bend, IN 46637 Total ___ 
0 
plu.., $·1.00 pN ltfm tor po-.tag1· and handling 
Grand Tala I 
MOtlllo 

''amP-------------­
Opus·T/THE OBSERVER 
5446 Hig11way 290 West 
Address------------­
~----------------------------~ 
,· ..··············-·-· •t
,·. 
. 
' 

' .''·-~~. ·..·.~.·..·-·~ ·-·::;;::.:~..::;:;:;:..-::::;:~::.:.::~~:.:::;.::;:... ••.:.·.-.--·-·-·.-:;.::.--~-·.::···--=:;:.~":.;"";:.-_-:.·:.:-·.;.-:..--~! 
Economic slowdown hailed as good news 
WASHINGTON (AP) The govern­ment said yesterday its main economic forecasting gauge rose just 0. 3 percent last month, the smal­lest gain in almost a year. But Com· merce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige welcomed the slowdown, saying "this recovery's strong phase , ..is largely behind us" and more moderate and sustainable growth likely will follow. 

Tom Robinson of Merrill Lynch agreed, saying the report offered an· other "hopeful sign" that the economy will not continue to spurt so rapidly as to rekindle intlation and higher interest rates. 
The forecasting gauge, the Com· merce Department's Index of Leading Economit Indicators, is a compilation of a dozen forward· pointing statistics covering manaufacturing, employment, prices and other areas. 
Other recent reports have shown that housing sales, retail sales and or­ders to factories fell off last month. That has led many economists to believe that the awaited slowdown has begun in the third quarter, following the vigorous annual growth rate of 9.2 percent reported for the April-June period. 
July's advance in the index was the smallest since last August, when the index fell 0.1 percent, the report said. It was the only one this year that was less than a percentage point. Strong advances of 3.1 per· cent in january and 2 percent in March were posted. 
Economists have said they feared that as businesses increased their borrowing for expansion in the recovery, their needs for credit would collide with the govern­ment's record borrowing to cover the federal budget detkit. Thus the cempetition for money would push interest rates higher. 
Wednesday's report said seven of the II available indicators rose in July, with the biggest contribution coming from an increase in oustand· ing credit. Consumer willingness to take on more debt is often inter­


The Observer Thursday, September 1, 1983 -page 5 
Riot police clash with solidarity supporters 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) Riot police clashed with more than 10,000 Solidarity supporters in two cities yesterday, but allowed Lech Walesa and 2,000 others in Gdansk to demonstrate in peace yesterday on the third anniversary of the outlawed independent labor federa­tion. 
The police also let more than 1,000 workers march peacefully in Warsaw for two hours. And when they moved in to disperse another crowd of 5,000, violence was mini­mal. 
The demonstrations, called by Solidarity's underground commit­tee, were the first on a national scale since the lifting of martial law July 
22. However, they were not nearly as widespread as those last Aug. 31. 
The biggest turnout was reported in Nowa Huta, the southern in­dustrial city where a worker was killed in rioting May 1 and another was shot by police during a demonstration after Solidarity was outlawed last Oct. 8. 
An estimated 10,000 workers poured out of the Lenin steel works after the day shift and marched toward the center ofthe city, ch t ant­ing "Solidarity" and other pro-union slogans, a government spokesman who witnessed the march reported. 
Riot police blocked them, firing tear gas and spraying them with water cannon, the spokesman said. Witnesses said the demonstrators hurled stones at the police and at streetcars. 
Several people were injured, and a number of the marchers were ar­rested, the official said. ciashes reportedly continued into the eve­ning. 
A violent police reaction also was reported in the southeastern city of Wroclaw. Official sources there said the police used tear gas to disperse a crowd that tried to place flowers on 
Eight killed in mental home blaze 
the grave of a young worker killed during a demonstration a year ago. 
In Warsaw, more than 1,000 steel and automobile factory workers marched without interference from 2 to 4 p.m., the hours set by the Solidarity underground for a boycott of public transport and street marches. 
Meanwhile, 5,000 Solidarity back­ers assembled in central Constitu­tion Square, whistling and clapping at small police patrols who moved among them urging them to move on. 


SUWANEE, Ga. (AP) A fire that quickly spread through a rustic cottage-style dormitory at a rural home for the mentally handicapped killed eight people yesterday and injured two as they slept, authorities said. 
The fire, which apparently started in faulty electrical wiring, broke out between 1:30 a.m. and 2 a.m. in one of four dormitories at Annandale Village, a private center located on 100 wooded acres about 35 miles northeast of Atlanta. Sixteen resi­dents and four staff members were sleeping in the one-story building at 

ONLY PER PERSON $4" Children Under 12 
BBQ BEEF RIBS • BBQ CHICKEN 
• BBQ SPARE RIBS 
• 
SPICY CHICREN WINGS 

•BBQ 
STYLE SLICED BEEF 


Baked Potato Bar with Six Topplngso Baked Beans Corn Cobb~ttes • Homemade Soup • Corn Bread 
Help yourself to as much as you like of these charcoal broiled meats and freshly prepared items. 
Offer rood dunn11 dmner hours only (annat ~ uMd in conJunction wllh other ofr1n Tax and up not Included Products must ~consumed on pr1m1se 
, ...u.........., ...,. 

the time. 
The dead -four men and four women, all residents ofthe center ­were not identified immediately. Their bodies were taken to the Gwinnett County morgue. 
Eight other residents and the four staff members escaped, but two of the residents were hospitalized for treatment of smoke inhalation and minor burns. They were listed in satisfactory condition at Buford General Hospital. 
Johnny Griffith, one of the staff members who lived at the cottage, said he was sleeping in his basement bedroom and was awakened by one of the alarms. He said he smelled smoke and heard someone banging on a door upstairs. 
"I opened my apartment door and the smoke just rushed in and choked me," he said. He rushed next door to another cottage and asked someone to call the fire department. 
Tom Griffin, acting fire chief of Gwinnett County, said the survivors "got out right away .. .I have no real way to determine why some got out and some did not." 
The building, the oldest of An­nandale's dormitories, was equipped with smoke detectors and fire alarms, and the fire department had conducted drills at the home recently, Griffin said. 
Announcing a new Max Lerner 1credit hour course: American Studies 306 "Eros in America" Thursdays 9:30 · 10:45 AM Beginning 9/8 Sign up in 339 O'Shag 


"~------------------·~~ 

RENOIR -ln The Meadow PICASSO-Petite Fleurs DALI-Persistence of Memory VAN GOGH· Starry Night TANNER-Banjo Lesson WYETH-Christina's World LAUTREC-Jane Avril MAGRITTE-Voice of Space MONET-Water Lilies DEGAS· Ballet School 
PERFECT WALL DECORATIONS GREAT GIFTS 
OVER 100 MASTER ARTISTS 
ANY3-0NLY$10 
2 DAYS ONLY••• 9AM-4:30PM LAFORTUNE CENTER (IN THE NAZZ) 



-------------~~--~­
The Observer Thursday, September 1, 1983-page 6 
Challenger successfully launches Indian weather satellite 
CAPE Canaveral, Fla. (AP) Chal­lenger's astronauts launched a triple-duty satellite for India yester­day and were told hy President Reagan that the space !light of America's first black astronaut demonstrates that "we-arc in an era of brotherhood here in our land." 
But the astronauts were later startkd by tht· high, pkn:ing sound of an alarm signaling the possibility of flrt· in an instrument bay. The alarm turned out to bt· fabt·. 
Reagan also fount! irhpiration in the part hdng playt·d by Dr. William Thornton. who b aboard the 'huttk to karn why 'ornt· astronauts 1-(l"t sick. 
"Bill, at S4 the oldest astronaut ever to 11y in space, you have an especially warm place in my heart," said the president, who likes to joke ahout the fact that he is 72. "It makes me think some day I might he ahle to go along." 
The president was at his ranch near ~anta Barbara, Calif, and the shuttle was I H4 miles high, en route from Hawaii toward the West Coast on its 2~rd trip around the Earth. The astronauts were ending a day in which they made their SH.~6 million satellite delivery. the most impor­tant part of their six-day !light. 
Reagan told Lt. Col. Guion 
Bluford. the first black man to earn 
11Hi, it's my first sem~etrl!tt:J 
and I don't know my AuntJean you're a I should look you up... " 
the gold pin that denotes an astronaut who has flown, that he is paving the way for many others. 
"You are making it plain we are in an era of brotherhood here in our land and you will serve as a role model for so many others and be so inspirational," Reagan said. "I can't help hut express my gratitude for you." 
Earlier, when Mission Control asknl Commander Richard Truly how things were going. he ex­claimed: "Shoot. we never had so much fun in our whole lives." 
The satellite, which can handle more than H.OOO telephone circuits and beam television to receivers in I 00,000 rural communities, will also improve weather forecasting in India. 
"The deployment was on time ...and the satellite looks good," mission specialist Bluford reported as the payload spun away. He said the crew felt a "slight clunk" as the satellite was released. 
It was the sixth successful com­munications satellite launch for a shuttle crew. Bluford gave the com­mands that started the satellite spin­ning at 40 rpm for stability. At 3:-19 
a.m. EDT, he pushed a button that sprung the payload out of the cargo hay. 
Truly fired Challenger's engines so the ship was a safe 12 miles away when the satellite's onhoard rocket fired 45 minutes later to propel it toward a parking space 22,300 miles above the equator south of India. It will r teach that spot Friday. 
INSAT is equipped to transmit weather photos every half hour, a houn to many segments of India's economy, including agriculture and avtatron Flood control, irrigation planning and disaster warnings are important benefit~ anticipated. 
Frick named assistant to Father Hesburgh 
By VIC SCIULLI 
Assistant Neu•s Editor 
James W. Frick, vice president for public relation!>, alumni atl"airs and development at Notre Dame wa!-. named assistant to Father Theodore llcshurgh, llniverity president. thb summer. 
James W. Frick 
Frick's new position will he as a consultant to the University. He had announced his intentions to retire last spring and to serve as a consult· ant. 
Among Frick's notable ac­complishments is raising more than 5300 million for the University. 
As vice president, Sexton will oversee the alumni association, spe­cial projects for development, in­formation services and the Notre Dame Magazine. 
Sexton came to Notre Dame in 1966 as a faculty member in the Cui­IegeofBusinessAd t ministration. He has been head of the management department since I97H and has directed the master's program in ad­ministration. 
NEED HELP WITH 
YOUR STUDt:NT LOAN? 

If you've attended college on u Guaran­
teed Student Loan or a National I>irecl 
Sludenl Loan made ufler Ot'lutwr I, 1975, 
consider spending a couple of years in the 
Army. 
If you train for certain specialties, the 
government will release you l"rom y, of 
your indebtness (or Sl,SOO, whichever is 
greater) for each year of active duly. 
Obviously, a three year enlistment can­
cels 100 percent of your debt. But if you 
sign up for the Army's uclusive lwo year 
enlistmenl option, we'll still cancel 213 of 
your debt. 
Plus, you may be elgihle for generous ed­
ucational incentives. 
To find out how to serve your country 
and gel oul of debt, call the number below. 
SGT Jones 234-4187 
Call Collect 
•,· ARM\'·.-Bt: ;.ttt"\'OUC)\"N tr£.
.., ....... -. '... ··-,­

The Observer Thursday, September 1, 1983-page 7 
p I
s T 0 • Tour Memorial Library 
Mon., Aug. 29 through Fri., Sept. 2 2pm 
Sun., Sept. 4 and Mon., Sept. 5 7pm 
.'. '' '
. 
j 
by a weather-resistant pier finish in the water. The students are now recuperating. 
Shamir, Levy vie for Begin post 
TEL AVIV, Israel ( AP) Foreign Defense Minister Moshe Arens The Laborites were in touch with Minister Yitzhak Shamir and Deputy said the committee vote would be members of at least two of Begin's Prime Minister David Levy agreed by secret ballot. No matter who partners, the National Religious yesterday to put their contest to won, he added, "we will continue Party and TAMI, an ethnic faction succeed Menachem Begin to a party the policies that have been followed representing Sephardic (Oriental) vote tonight. under Mr. Begin." Jews. Thev have nine sears. 
The shift from the Herut Party's Much depended on whether the The leader of another religious Cabinet caucus to the 930-member popular 70-year-old prime minister party in the present coalition, Av­central committee appeared to would give his blessing to either raham Shapira ofAgudat Israel, made boost Levy's chances, since he is candidate. In the past, he has clear that Begin's successor would stronger in the committee than preferred Shamir, a 68-year-old have to negotiate to retain the sup­among the senior party leaders, who comrade in the underground fight port of his party's four members in overwhelmingly support Shamir. for Jewish statehood in Palestine. the Knesset. 

Lebanese government recaptures West Beirut 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) About Amin Gemayel offered his political 10,000 Lebanese army troops, oppnents a "national reconciliation backed by tanks, artillery and dialogue" designed to "chart machine guns, swept into West Lebanon's future within the Beirut in three columns yesterday, framework of territorial integrity routing Druse and Shiite Moslem and total sovereignty." militiamen in fierce house-to-house But Druse leader Walid Jumblatt, combat. The state radio said the whose Progressive Socialist Party troops restored control over virtual· militiamen battled the army ly all the city's Moslem sector. alongside Shiite Moslems, rejected 
Thunderous artillery barrages, the offer and called on all other either from Syrian-held positions Lebanese politicians to do the same. outside the city or Lebanese army "It is treachery,"Jumblatt said in a batteries, shook the city. Police said statement issued in Damascus. "On 24 people were killed, including six: the one hand they send their army to Lebanese soldiers, and 49 wounded. kill and butcher the Moslems of The army said it captured ';O West Beirut and on the other, they militiamen, including seven Pales­invite us for a dialogue just to fool tinians and four Syrians. our people and public opinion." 
The latest deaths brought the Nabih Berri. leader of the largest casualty toll in the fighting that Shiite militia group, Amal, began Sunday to 79 killed, including denounced sending the army into two U.S. Marines, five Frenchmen West Beirut and appealed to Arab 
and 27 Lebanese soldiers. plus _i26 heads of state to halt "the massacre wounded, including 14 American of Moslems in Beirut." 
Marines, seven French troops, three Gt·mayel, a Christian, is allied with 
Italians and 89 Lebanese soldiers. the dominant rightist Phalange 
The Americans, French and Party, and his army is Christian-led, 
Italians are part of an international although made up largely of Moslem 
peacekeeping force in Beirut. troops. 
Fighting also broke out in Tripoli The three Lebanese army hrigades yesterday between rival Moslem pushed westward from the old militia groups. and police said 2'; Green Line that divides the city into people were killed and 60 wounded Moslem and Christian halves. in the battles 50 miles north of Their M-48 tanks and armored Beirut. personnel carriers advanced with 
With the army pursuing the tank cannon and machine guns 
militiamen in West Beirut, President firing. 

8~8cP"'''t""jCu4vC..,kt 

vt.:,;ct~'·t.~_,..., [ .....,c,.,t '" Ns~u .•. 288-f6~9 

--~ 
The Observer Thursday, September 1, 1983 -page 8 


v\)(\"~ A Taste of Notre Dame 
North Dining Hall will be closed 11:00-2:00 Stepan Center 

4 -7 Stepan Field ·Both dining halls will be closed -Par III performing -Picnic games with prizes 

,J I ,. 

Sponsored by Notre Dame Food Service and YOUR Student Union 
---·-­

View~_O_l_·_n_t_________
T_hu-rs-da-y,_se-pt-em_b-er-1,_19_8_3_pa-ge-9 
The perils of politics 
Aphoto oftwo bodieson the airport tarmac in Manila -one a party leader returning after years of exile to take up battle against the strongman president, and the other the presumed assasin, shot down by soldiers right after his act of killing. And in that picture a 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
mystery to be cleared up and another case his­tory of the risks taken in the perilous game of high power and politics. 
There is talk in Manila that the two killings "smell," that the assasination of Benigno Aquino -as the strongest contender against President Ferdinand Marcos -was a govern­ment act, with the assasin silenced by death. 
Filipino politics has had a more violent his­tory than most, and President Marcos has 
All students who applied for federal aid for the 1983-84 academic year received a mailing from the Office of Financial Aid recently. Though the government has required stu­dents to certi.l)' educational intent before, this is the first time students have been ordered to 
Keith Picher 
Short of Profll!ld~ty 

certify compliance with draft registration. 
Actually, the government did not force all students to attest their cooperation. Females, active members of the armed services, those under 18years ofage, those born before 1960, and permanent residents of the Trust Ter­ritory or the Northern Marianna Islands can merely check a box to that effect. 
But the non-registrant is thrust into a Catch­
22. He must either I) register against his.con­science 2) not register'and not receive federal 
Thank-you 
Dear Notre Dame Community, 
The parents and family ofCathy Pax wish to express our sincere appreciation for the visits, for the prayers, for the masses, for the cards and flowers from so many Notre Dame staff 
and  students  following  the  death  of our  
daughter and s ister, Cathy.  
Alfred Pax  
Sue Pax  
Linda Pax  
Greg Pax  

Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number, and signature ofthe author. Initials andpseudo­nyms are unacceptable. Reproductions, car­bon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All 
letters m-e subject to editing and become the proper~v ofThe Observer. 
maintained his power with a turbulent and steely authority. Since Imelda Marcos, the president's wife, had warned Aquino in Bos­ton ofthe plot to kill him, it seems both unlike­ly and counterproductive that Marcos would have staged so dramatic and public an execu­tion. Only a political idiot would do it -and nothing about Marcos suggests that he is. 
The episode underlines the perils ofpolitics in an age ofpolitical violence, and the kind of men who disregard them. 
Aquino was an unusual political figure -a rich man who took a radical stance, an intel­lectual who exalted in political battle. In the face of Mrs. Marcos' warning it took a rash courage for him to insist on returning. "If it is my place to die from an assasin's bullet, so be it," he told his brother-in-law on the flight. Then he stepped out to his death. 
Americans who have lived through the Ken­nedy and King slayings, and the attempt on President Reagan, know that political leader­ship has become the world's most dangerous vocation. Yet so many continue to take the risks. It is because the stakes -ambition, fame, commitment -are even higher than the dangers. 

The real nightmare for political leaders is not death but failure. Charles de Gaulle is a good instance. He was a target for right-wing army officers, and narrowly escaped several assassination attempts. Each made him more determined. 
Yet at one point he was brought to the bot­tom rung of despair. As Bernard Ledwidge recounts it in a recent biography, De Gaulle (St. Martin's), it happened during the student revolt in 1968, when the universities and trade unions combined in an effort to topple his regime. 
De Gaulle felt isolated and trapped. He even thought it possible that his opponents, includ­ing the Communists, might storm the Elysee. It was the only time, Ledwidge tells us, when 
Drafting an alternative 
aid, or 3) not register, but lie on the form. Though the law hopes to force men into the first two options, many will choose the third since the Education Department will not re­quire verification until the 1985-86 academic year. Hence, students who lie on the form will probably not be caught for the next two years. 
The biggest challenge to the law, however, is the Supreme Court. Requiring such cer­tification raises questions of Fifth Ammend­ment protection and s elective criminal enforcement. 
The Fifth Ammendment states that no per­son "shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness, against himself." Strictly speaking, the government does not force anyone to incriminate himseu; since they only · withhold a benefit from the non-registrant. 
The real question is whether or not the government should withhold loan money from those who have not been convicted ofa crime. The law will, in effect, presume all stu­dents guilty until proven innocent. 

The law also seems rather arbitrary. What would keep the government from asking "Please certify that you have not committed any federal crime within the statute oflimita­tions in order to secure your loan," or "Have you ever driven while drunk?" or "Have you ever raped or molested a young child?" Surely Congress would never pass such laws, but no­thing would prevent them from doing so. 
Proponents of the law might suggest that those unwilling to follow laws pertaining to draft registration should not be trusted to repay federal loans. While this may be true, the loans are not meant to be disbursed according to the liklihood ofrepayment. 
The more serious constitutional question involves selective enforcement of justice. Courts have already challenged the govern­ment for prosecuting vocal opponents of registration while not pressing charges against less vocal people. 
In this case, the law discriminates against 
the less wealthy. Only those who happen to he suffered a failure of nerve. He sent his fami­ly away, and ordered a plane to take him to the French military headquarters Baden-Baden, planning to await the outcome in West Ger­many. 
But his old friend, Gen. Jacques Massu, in command of the French troops, rallied his spirits and persuaded him to return to France and fight it our. He did, and found the support of a vast demonstration by a million people, and won a landslide victory in the June elec­tions. 
De Gaulle would have understood Aquino. It is despair, not the fear of death, that is the enemy ofa political leader. 
Editor's note: Max Lerner current~y occupies Notre Dame's Welsh Chair in American Studies. His columns are distributed nationwide by the Los Angeles Times Synd­icate. 
need aid will be forced to certify. Suppose the federal government required only Hispanics or Frenchmen to certify that they filled out their taxes honestly. Clearly this would be dis­criminatory. Yet the current registration law treats members of the middle and lower income classes in a very similar way. 
Until the Supreme Court rules on the case, men across the country will have to make a decision they should not have to make. While most of the men at Notre Dame may not have to worry (since they registered) they should be concerned about the dangerous precedent the law sets, 
The University should consider a special fund to aid those who object to the certifica­tion process. Several Ivy League schools as well as local schools like Goshen College and Michigan State are providing loan money. While the interest rates may not compete with the government, those with conscien­tious objections could avoid a troublesome choice. 
To a~se critiCsof his Central .Ameriealblic.y,'President~an pullsl>ack.the.twocarriers patron~ ~f NiCaragua. 
He dep~ the Li~ 


Department Managers 
==Ihe_Obseaer==Editori;d Board 
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic 
Box Q, Notre fJame, IN 46556  (219) 239· 5303  Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare  
The Ohserr•er is the independent newspaper published bv the students of the Uni·  Executive Editor .................  Paul McGinn  Controller... ....................  Alex Szilvas  
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  News Editor .................  Bob Vonderheide  Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen  
the poliCies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac·  News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh  Composition Manager . ........ Suzanne La Croix  
curardy and as objectively as possihk. linsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa  Saint Mary's Editor . ..........Anne Monastyrski  Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries. kt(er~. and the Inside Column present  Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamilton  System Manager  ............... Kevin Williams  
tht: vit:ws oftheir authors.<:olumn space is available to all members ofthe community,  Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower  
anti the free expression ofvaryingopinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged  

Founded November 3, 1966 
Sports Briefs 
The Student Managers Organization is 
i<x>king ti>r frcshmrn interested in becoming a part ofNotre Dame 
athletics. There will he a mL-eting at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, Septem­
ber 7 in the ACC football auditoriwn. -The Obsen'er 
The mlleyl>all team is looking for stati~tician~ and 
line jud~t·s for its home games this fall. A good knowledge of tennis or volleyball is preferred hut not necessary. Matches are played on weekday nights and on the mornings of home football games. There is a small salary. If interested, call the volleyball office at 284-6281 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
The Non-varsity Athletics Office has an· 
nounced deadlines for signing up for some fall sports. Wednesday, Septcmht·r 7 has been announced as the deadline for interhall foot­hall, both men's and women's, mixed doubles tennis, both men's and women's interhall tennis singles, and grad/faculty tennis, men's, women's, and mixed. September 7 will also he the deadline for sig­nups for the 16·inch softball tournament and co·rec softball. The NVA office also has announced that aerobic exercise classes will start on September 7. If there are any questions, call 239-6100. 
The Ohsen1er 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club will hotd an 
organizational meeting today at 8 p.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom. New players arc encouraged to attend. The guest speaker will he Bob fink. -The Obsert•er 
The ND-SMC Women's Crew Team will 
hold a mandatory meeting today at 8 p.m. in Lafortune. -The Ob· Sert!I!T 
Purdue ticketswill be lottericd this weekend. Fill out a lottery form at the Irish Gardens on tomorrow afternoon between I 2 p.m. and ~ p.m. Winners will be posted on Monday on the LaFortune bulletin hoard. Tickets arc S 12 and can be picked up at the Student Union T Ticket Office/Record Store starting Monday. ­
The Ohsen•er 
The Notre Dame ~'restling team will hold 
an important meeting for all students interested in participating tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC small auditorium. For further in­formation, contact BrotherJoe Bruno at 239-7454. -The Obseroer 
The off-campus intramaural football 
team is now bein~ organized. For intormation, stop by the in· tramaural office or leave your name and telephone number at Apt. 1 C, Notre Dame Apartments. -The Obseroer 
Thursday, September 1, 1983-page 10 

U.S. Open tennis continues 
NEW YORK (AP)-France's Van­nick Noah, showing no ill effects from his knee injury or from a rain delay, defeated young Scott Davis 6­1, 3-6, i-6, 6-4 yesterday in a first­round match in the U.S. Open Tennis Championships. 
The fourth-seeded Noah, who captured the French Open in May ­the first Frenchman to win that clay court title since 1946 -was joined in the second round by Ivan Lend! of Czechoslovakia, the No. 2 seed. Lend! brushed aside Florin Segar­ceanu of Romania 6-2, 6-0, 6-2 at the National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadow, and No.5 Mats Wilander of Sweden stopped Guy Forget of France 3-6, 6-I, 6-2,6-2. 
Also winning her opening-round match was defending women's champion Chris Evert Lloyd, who dropped the first game before crush­ing Britain's Shelly W a!pole 6-1, 6-0. 
Noah has played only one Volvo Grand Prix tournament since the French Open -partly because of a 42·day suspension and partly be· cause oftendinitis in his right knee. 
The injury forced him to retire during a match in the Players' Inter· national tournament in Montreal, and he later pulled out of the ATP championships for the same reason. 
Against Davis, a member of the 
U.S. Junior Davis Cup team and a qualifier here, Noah's all-court game was in command. The match was delayed for 75 minutes after Davis held serve ro begin the fourth set. But Noah got the only service break he needed in the seventh game, then served out for the match. 
The rain put off the first-round match of Martina Navratilova, the top women's seed. She will meet Emilse Raponi Longo ofArgentina in the first match on today. 
Besides Lloyd, other seeded women who won their opening· round matches Wednesday in­cluded No. 9 Andrea Temesvari of Hungary, No. 14 Jo Durie of Britain, No. I 0 Zina Garrison, No. 13 Barbara Potter, and No. 13 Claudia Kohde of West Germany. 
Temesvari stopped Jill Davis 6-3, 7-6; Durie ousted Ros Fairbank of South Africa 6-I, 6-3; Garrison eliminated Leigh Thompson 7-5,6-1 and Kohde defeated Marie-Christine Calleja of France 6-2,6-2. 
Other seeded men who advanced were No. 12 Johan Krick, who out­lasted Harold Solomon 5·7, 7-5, 7-S, 6-4; and N.. 13 Steve Dentn, who stopped Mike Gandolfo 7-6,6-4, 6·4 
"I'm not the greatest starter," Lloyd admitted when asked about dropping the opening game. "That's why when I win the toss, I choose to 
continuedjrompage 12 
by the Braves Sunday in a trade with the Cleveland Indians. 
Joaquin Andujar, 6-13, went S 1-3 innings, allowing five hits, while striking out four and walking one. Bruce Sutter picked up his 16th save with 1 2-3 innings ofone-hit relief 
Barker, 0-1, who had an 11-13 record at Clevdand, left the game in the fifth after giving up I 0 hits and three runs. 
Phil. 4, S.D. 3 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Pete Rose snapped an 0-for-20 slump with a ninth-inning pinch-single over a drawn-in defense to give the Philadelphia Phillies a 4-3 victory over the San Diego Padres last night. 
With one out, Ivan Dejesus singled to left and raced to third on a double by Joe Lefebvre, both hits coming offElias Sosa, 1· 3. 
Rose was sent up to hit for AI Hol­land, 8-2, and Gary Lucas came on to pitch for the Padres. 
San Diego Manager Dick Williams elected to let Lucas, a left-hander, face the switch-hitting Rose instead of issuing an intentional walk to face the left-hand hitting Joe Morgan, who was on deck. 
With a 1-0 count, Rose lined a shot over the head ofcenter fielder Tony Gwynn who was playing shallow be­hind the drawn-in infield. 
Cin. 6, Chi. 4 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Johnny Bench, makng his first start as a catcher in Riverfront Stadium in receive serve." 
After that, it was a breeze for the women's No. 2 seed as she reeled off the next 12 games. 
"She basically didn't have any­thing to hurt me with," Lloyd said of her 17-year-old opponent, who joined the professional tour full­time this past january. 
• • • Scores 
over two years, singled with two out in the seventh to break a 4-4 tie as the Cincinnati Reds defeated the Chicago Cubs 6-4 Wednesday night. 
Paul Householder started the win­
ning rally wih a one-out double off 
reliever Rich Bordi, 0-2. Warren 
Brusstar replaced Bordi, and one out 
later, Bench laced a single to center 
to score the go-ahead run. 
Kelly Paris ran for Bench, who received his second standing ova­tion of the evening from the crowd of 17,474. Paris stole second and scored on Dan Driessen's third single of the game. It was Bench's first starting home appearance as a catcher since April 29, 19tH. 
The Cubs tied it in the seventh 
when Mel Hall hit his second homer 
of the game off Rich Gale, 4-5. It was 
Hall's 14th homer of the season, and 
fifth in his last I 1 at-bats. 
Seat. 4, Mil1 
SEATTLE (AP) -Pat Putnam belted a two-run double as the Seattle Mariners spoiled Pete Vuck­ovich's first outing of the season by beating the Milwaukee Brewers 4·1 last night. 
Vuckovich. the 1982 Cy Young award winner, diagnosed during spring training as having a torn rotator cuff, pitched five innings and gave up two runs on five hits. He struck out four, walked two and hit a batter in throwing HS pitches. 
Bob Stoddard, 7-14, went 7 l-3 in· 
nings and gave up four hits, includ­
ing TedSSimmons' ninth home run 
in the seventh inning. Mike Stanton 
went the final 1 2-3 innings for sixth 
save. 

The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. The deadline ror next day service Is ~ p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mall. Charge Is ten cents per seven charac­


Classifieds 
ters, per day. 
NOTICES 

Surrealism to lmpresa.omsm we have tt alii Somelhong for everywall. goganloc selectoon at student proces yOU'll be as· lounded art pronl and laser pllOiogr"'lh sale today thru Froday .LaFortune Cen· ler (on the NAZZ) 
Dorty walls? Clean up your act wrth really tone art pronls by really tone arttsts Ove• 8,000 pronls on stock allow student proces. Today lhru Frodaylol4 30da~y. LaFortune Center (on the NAZZ) 
Typong, ALL KINOS 277·8534 after 5 30 M-F All day wknds 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287·4082 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20 to $200 "• onlerest-due on 30 days Hours 11.30·12 30 Mon-Fro Oftlce en LaFortune basement 
jLOST/FOUND I 
$REWARD FOR LOST BLUE VELCRO WALLET CALL 8318 OR PANGBORN ROOM 39 SEE TONY ANDERSON 
LOST· gold watch--on Tuesday. August 30 at approx 4 4ti Watch was lost on Bookstore. between Boo~store and South Donong Hall, or en route to Lewrs Hall. II found, please call Leanne 7009 or 3845 REWARD OFFERED"! THANKS!' 
LOST HELP!!! Whoever ··borrowed" a handtruck wrth two bo•es of my clothes. some boob. and my clock radoo from oulsode Grace Hall's recievong room Thursday rughl please return these thongs as I REALLY NEED THEM!! NO QUES· TIONS ASKED II Call Lou al1658 or leave them outSide my door. 507 GRACE signed DESPERATEII these thongs as f REALLY NEED THEM. NO QUESTIONS 
ASKED!! CALL LOU at 1658 or leave them outside my door. 507 GRACE. 
FOUND ROOM KEY LOST AT SOPHO· MORE CLASS PICNIC ON MONDAY 
LOST Set of keys conlaonong 7 keys. Key chaon •s green and reads Royal Motors. Owego, New York Please call Dan al 277·1532 or Deanna at284·4069of found 
FOR RENT 

2 bedroom apt .. convement focatton, mce­ly lurnoshad, very clean. $175 mo. plus ulohlles 763 L W E . 233·8388 
House for rent 5 bdrms. turn .. $100 mo. plus uhf 2 mo. from campus. Call 233· 2245 or 255·6823. 
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
WANTED 

ND2GA PURDUE T,. forCASHOR2 GA Po11.MSU.Navy CALL 2580354 10·12PM WANTED. Writers for The Observer's Scoence Oepl Call Tom at239-5303 
WANTED STEREO TO BUY OR RENT FOR YEAR X8845 
TICKETS 
HELP! Need two tickets for Mochogan Sl game. Woll pay well Call Keith at 6710. 310Carroll 
I desperately need 1 or 2 Moch. St. lockets II you can help. call Ken at234-4511 Woll pay top dollar 
GA Football Tox wanted for USC and Poll Woll buy or trade Mochogan Slate GAs. Call Alex at277·1326 
NEED 1 locket for lhe PURDUE game. Call MICHELLE 8136 
I need 4 GA's tor the NaYY Game. Call Kevon al239-7141 or 283-3121. 
NEEDED.2 GA TICKETS FOR MICH. STATE GAME GOOD MONEY.. PLEASE CALL LAURA AT 8050 ASAP 
HELP' Need 3 Moch Stale lockets Name your proce..thanks. Call Jom al8277 HELP Need 2 MSU tickets tor my parents. Please call Broan at 1507 

WANTED: 1 GAorSTUT,.torMISTATE. Will pay well. Call after 5 at277·0953. 
NEED TICKETS GA FORMtCH. STATE 
OR MY DAD WILL SEND ME TO MICH. 
STATE I HELP. AL 370? TOP DOLLAR 
PERSONALS 
DECORATE NOW! Art pronls at 2 cents per square onchl Over 8,000 prints in stock of over 100 master arttsls We have beau1i1ul laser photographs tool Don't moss out! Today lhru Froday, LaFortune (in the NAZZ) lol4:30 p.m 
Salvador Dah pronls. 8 dollerenl on stock... you'll be overwhelmed in confu· S1on! Thru Froday only .... art pronl sale..great 1nexpenstve wall decor .... huge selecloon LaFortune Cen· ler (in the NAZZ). 
Bnng a lnend and enjoy lhe scenery\ We brong the Louvre to you! Art pront & laser photograph sale. hi 4:30 p.m. lhru Froday... on the NAZZ (LaFortune). 
Bare wall blues??! We cure lham...lha doctor IS in! The art print and laser photograph sale at LaFortune will put beauty on your wall and leave bucks in your pocket. Don't suffer needlessly .. see us today for your custom prescripuon. til Friday only! 
' .·~' .. 
EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL YEAR. FLEXIBLE HOURS. MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS ON CAMPUS. BONUS BASED ON RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS WELL 800·526-0883. 
T elemarkelong representatives · Must project posotive omage over the phone 12 to 24 hrs. per week. Hourly plus commis· soon. Excellent working environment Apply by phone 287·9010. 
BAND ORGAN RESTAURANT os now horing for all positions. 211 E. Day, 2 mi. E. of campus off Edison. Musocally oncloned students encouraged to apply. 
The Scoence Dept. of The Observer is lookong lor wrolers. If you're onlerested, call Tom al239·5303. 
Immediate opemngs tor cooks/waoters/waolresses allhe bestlinle restaurant on S.B.I Must be over 21 & be able to work late hours. Call 289·8031. ask tor Amy or Dee Oroginal Coney Island Dogs. 107 E LaSalle. So. Bend. 
CAMBRIDGE oiET PLAN • meel;~gs. personalized couselong. FREEl Cambridge Center. 256-5400. Clop thos ad 
for savongsl 
SOPHOMORES! FLOAT YOUR CARES AWAY ON THE SOPHOMORE CLASS CANOE TRIP SAT SEPTEMBER 3rd AT 1PM. LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLI; I CONTACT SUSIE AT 2909. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES I BISHOP JOSEPH CROWLEY WILL PRESIDE AT THE 1st SOPHOMORE CLASS MASS SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 4th AT 2pm AT THE GROTTO. BRING YOUR OWN BlANKET AND BE THERE II 
TRANSFER FORUM TONIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM STUDENT GOVERN­MENT WILL HOLD AN INFORMATION FOR ALL INTERESTED TRANSFER STUDENTS VARIOUS INFORMAION WILL BE PRESENTED AND ANY AND ALL QUESTIONS WILL BE ANSWERED 
ATTENTION TRANSFER STUDENTS!!! Tomte tn the Library Audttonum. Student Government Will hold an tnformatton ses­soon lor all transfer students. II would be valuable of you could anend All questoons you have wtll be answered 
Unde GUido wan1s to come see the \nsh destroy Po11. but Uncle Guodo wasn·l able to purchase a locket If you want to keep Uncle Guodo happy (ol os on everyone's best onleresllo keep Uncle Guodo happy! then please sell your student or general admossoon locket to hos contact Call Sarah at1311. 
FRESHMEN Saont Mary·s Actovoloes Noghl os Tuesday September 6 at 8 00 in Angela Aclovoues Facotoly Gel onvolved and talk to representatrves from all clubs and or­gan•zahons 
Going West? 1 plane tockel one-way to DENVER or PORTLAND only $100. Call 284-5402; ask fo• Heather. 
Bayer aspefln. 1nstttut1onat s•ze 

The Observer Thursday, September 1, 1983 -page 11 
. . . Linebackers 

continuedfrom page 16 
says Kelly. "I would be terribly dis­appointed if he didn't get better day by day, week by week." 
If he does continue to improve, the defense may have to change its name from the "Gold Rush" to the "Gold & Blue Wrecking Crew." 
On the strongside is the season veteran, Rick Naylor. The coaches arc expecting more from the veteran Naylor than he contributed last season. 
"He's had some great games," recalls his coach Greg Blache. "but he needs consistency." 
The consistency to which Blache wa~ referring was lacking in Naylor's game last season. For example, against Michigan, Naylor played su­perbly with nine tackles, but the next week against Purdue he failed to make a stop. Against Oregon he was credited with eight stops, but, in the next game against Navy, he had only one tackle. 
In the unbalanced 5-2, Naylor will line up on the line of scrimmage alongside the down linemen, but oc­cassionally he will drop off to form a 4-3. Blache also indicates that the Irish will play a 3-4 if necessary. 
"Rick has the leeway to play on and off," says Blache. "With his ex­perier.ce, he knows how to handle those situations." At defensive end is Mike Golic, perhaps ready to 
step out of the shadow ofhis olde hrmher. Bob, who is now with the Cleveland Browns. 
"Mike worked hard this summer," 

AP Photo 

ii'C/11 Lend/, tbe No. 2 seed at tbe U.S. Open Tennis Cbampion­ships, breezedpast Florin Sexarceanu in tbefirst round ofplay. See the f l.S. Open story• on JHI!(e 10for a round up ofotberfirst round action. 

·VISA~ 
OPEN ALL D 

LABOR DAY .~ -~ 
9AM ·10 PM 

BEER BY THE CASE  
KINGS CELLAR BEER 24 LOOSE  
BUDWEISER 24 LOOSE HEINEKEN 4/6 NR 99 LaBatt's Canadian case.. 1 01199 Molson Golden case....•.  

comments Blache. "He's bigger and stronger and doing a good job for us so far." 
Playing behind Kevin Griffith for two seasons, Golic turned heads at the Blue-Gold game in May wheP he was the game's defensive MVP with six tackles. 
Backing up Golic are sophomore John McCabe and freshman Robert Banks. McCabe appears to have found a home at end while Banks is going through the pains oftransition from high schoot to college. 
"Banks is struggling with the sys­tem," says Blache. "He's handling it all well but he needs time and ex­perience. We are not disappointed. He's had to go from learning 3 or 4 coverages in high school to 10 or 12 here." 
With the lone exception of Naylor, the middle of the defense will be inexperienced and thus un­predictable at times. Larkin was counted on heavily because of his experience and consistency, but his absence forces Coach Faust to shuffle his cards knowing all the while the ace is on the sidelines. 
The 5·2 Defense 
Weakside Linebacker 
1 ? 
Middle Linebacker 
2 
Tony Furjanic 
3 Strongside Linebacker Rick Naylor 
Defensive End 4 Mike Golic 
[f] [2] (21(2112][4][3] 

NOTR.E bt\ME !OPEN ftl!DITIONS I 5NHrMAR){'5 no expenence necessary 
'tHE~ THURS SEPT 1 7:00 
BUDWEISER 
KEGS 
Y2 BARREL
2999 
PLUS DEPOSIT 
APPROXIMATELY 200 SERVINGS 
Miller keg, 1/2 b ......... 32.50 
QUARTS 
699
Old Milwaukee ........... 899
Budweiser ............... 
I LIQUOR 
Seagrams Seven 
Crown 750 499 Kings Cellar Vod. 1.75 799 Kings Cellar Gin 1.75 899 Everclear Grain 
Alchohol 100 Proof 750 699 Southern Comfort 750 599 Bailey's Irish Cream 750 1099 Jack Daniels 750 799 

Crown Royal 750 1099 Tanqueray Gin 750 899 
StolychnayaWild Turkey 101 750 g99 

Vodka 80 750 899 Fighting Irish 499
Bacardi Rum 7so 

Bourbon ltr. 
O'LAUGHLIN ---SMC 

I 
I· I I I I I I 
l 
Bacardi Rum 151 750 Aranas Tequila 750 H.W. Schapps 750 Gilbeys Gin 1.75 Gilbeys Vodka 1.75 

"N.D. Grand Opening Specials"···Register for tree T.V .. , Drawing Sept. 30, no purchase necessary. ·Must be 21. 
CARLO  
ROSSI  
4LITER  
ALMADEN MOUNTAIN  349  
WINES  
1.5 LITER  
CODORNIU  

BLANC de BLANC4 9 9 
CHAMPAGNE 
750ML 
ZONIN 199
LAMBRUSCO 
750ML 
899 499 499 799 899 
.•· 

-.,,. 
~ ·...~~~ ·~ .:.·;. ~ 
f I' • ~ 

The 0 bserver Thursday, September.I, 1983-page 12 
Baseball Standings 
• • . Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE 
e.., Eall 
continued/rom page 16 the Detroit Tigers 5-1 Wednesday followed with an RBI double. Hos­
W L Pet. GB W L Pet. GB 
night. tetler went to third on throw home 
Balttmore 77 52 597 Pittsburgh 66 63 .519 Mtlwaukee 75 57 568 3.5 Philadelphia 67 64 .511 1 
third of the season, skidded past Wright hit his 15th homer in the and scored when Detroit catcher 
DetrOit 74 57 565 4 Montreal 66 64 506 1.5 
diving right fielder Mike Marshall first inning, a shot into the lower Lance Parrish threw wildly.
New York 73 57 562 4 5 Sl. LOUIS 65 65 500 2.5 
and rolled all the way to the wall. right field seats, and Hostetler hit his
Toronto 72 62 537 7 5 Chicago 59 73 447 9.5 Boston 63 69 477 15.5 New York 55 78 .414 14 
Bob Bailor then singled off Valen­1Oth homer in the second. 
Cleveland 58 76 .433 21.5 West 
Mont. 4, S.F. 3 

zuela's glove, stole second and one In the Texas fifth, Mickey Rivers
Well los Angeles 75 55 .577 Ch1cago 75 57 568 Atlanta 76 57 571 5 
out later Jose Oquendo was walked hit a two-out single, stole second, 
KansasC1ty 64 67 489 10 5 Houston 70 62 .530 6 
intentionally. Torrez singled to cen­and scored on Buddy Bell's single to MONTREAL (AP) -A throwing
Oakland 65 70 461 11 5 San D1ego 66 69 .489 11.5 
ter scoring B .ailor, and Wilson deep short. Detroit shortstop Alan
Callforma 61 72 459 14 5 San Franstsco 63 70 474 13 5 
error by San Francisco second 
Texas 61 72 459 14 5 Ctnc1natt 61 73 455 16 
followed with his fifth homer ofthe Trammell made the long throw baseman Joel Youngblood allowed
Mtnnesota 57 76 429 18 5 
season. trying to get Bell, and Rivers never
Seattle 51 62 363 24 5 Yesterday's Resulta 
the go-ahead run to score in thestopped, sliding in under first
St. LOUIS 6, Atlanta 3 

fourth inning, enabling the Montreal
Yeoterday·o Resullo Montreal4. San Franstsco 3 
Tex. 5, Det. 1 baseman Enos Cabell's throw. 
Ba1t1more10. Toronto 2 New York 7, los Angeles 1 
Expos to gain a 4-3 victory over theThe Tigers' run came in the bot­
Mtnnesota at Boston. ppd ratn c,nc1nah 6. Ch1cago 4 
Giants last night. 

Texas 5, Detr0111 Philadelphia 4. San D1ego 3 
tom ofthe fifth on successive singles

Ch1cago 7, Kansas C1ty 3 Houston 4, P1ttsburgh 1 
Bill Gullickson, 13-11, allowed six
DETROIT (AP)-George Wright 
by Glenn Wilson, Tom Brookens and
Cleveland 7, Cahlorma 5 

hits in 8 1-3 innings, walking one and
and Dave Hostetler belted solo
New York 6. Oakland 4 
Lou Whitaker. 

striking out five winning for the
Seattle 4, M1lwaukee 1 

homeruns, and the Texas Rangers 
Texas scored twice in the ninth as 

sixth time in his last seven decisions.
made five double plays in beating 
Bill Stein walked and Hostetler Jeff Reardon got the last out for his 19th save of the season. 


Trailing 3-2 in the fourth, the Ex­pos loaded the bases with one out -,Ih_---=--. ----.a.~Y=-._,..&.--­
fir*********ii*******iiiJ
e_--0-bse--~~­
against starter Fred Breining, 8-11, on AI Oliver's single, a double by 
Tim Wallach, and an intentional walk to Warren Cromartie. 
There will be a meeting for all Observer 
is accepting applications for the 
Doug Flynn then hit a grounder to
typesetters and anyone else interested 
position of Sports Editor._ For 
shortstop Darrell Evans, who flipped 
to Youngblood to force Cromartie at
more information, call David or
in typesetting. This meeting will be 
second as Oliver scored the tying
Margaret at 239-5303. 
run. When Youngblood's relay
at 7:30 pm, Thurs­

sailed into the Expos' dugout, Wal­lach scored to make it 4-3. 
day , September 1. 

St. L. 6, Atl. 3 
If you cant make it leave a message for 
ATLANTA (AP)-Ken Oberkfell had four hits and drove in three runs to lead the St. Louis Cardinals to a
Kevin at 

6-3 victory over the Atlanta Braves Wednesday night.
The Observer. 

The loss by Atlanta, it's third straight and tifth in six games, spoiled the National League debut of right-hander Len Barker, acquired
Deadline: 5 pm Friday, Sept. 2 
~ii**iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill see SCORES, page 10 
Two Great Locations 
t
Notre 
N
Dame 
IINGELII BLVD. 
EDISON 
. 

"P't. ' ...... .,,... ,,"' .. ' ""-' ~ .... ll .. l. •t• ' .• ' .. ~ .• • • 

,.. r

~·"' \._~f...::J. ..I._r.IJ..~ A'•'•'J•'•'rt..J-if,t,I JJ,/..,t ._llllf II' .t."M..·• e 11" •"6 • ." • • .. ~ •. t.-~· e • • .. •, .. •-• ,· .... I. 1\ '.....·....... ·"' .... ..._'"\ ~ \ "' " , , ·.
• 



I. 
The Observer Thursday, September 1, 1983-page 13 

Victory '83 upsets Aussie contender 
NEWPORT, R.I. (AP) -Victory which will force an immediate in the final series, making the '83 of England posted a major upset hearing on any rules infractions. The NYYC's job tougher, although in the America's Cup trials yest t er­outcome of the protests was ex­Liberty has a better overall record day, defeating Australia II and its pected to be announced Thursday, this summer. 
vaunted winged keel by 13 seconds according to officials of the challen­A foreign challenger and a U.S. in the first race of the foreign finals. ger race committee. defender will battle for the Cup in a The British boat, which has ex­Meanwhile, Liberty and best-of-seven t1nal series beginning 
perimented with removable wings Courageous split two shortened ,Sept. J3. on its own keel. grabbed a 14-races yesterday as the U.S. t1nals con­The start of the foreign finals had second lead at the start and didn't tinued. Liberty was ahead by 31 been delayed for three days due to trail at any of the marks in the 24.4 seconds in the t1rst race, shortened tickle winds. 
mile race, held under 15-knot winds to three legs, and Courageous led by and sloppy seas on Rhode Island 1:06 in the two-leg second match. · Australia II had roared through Sound. In the day's final race, Liberty the preliminary races with a 44-5 
Victory '83 now leads 1-0 in the topped Courageous by 42 seconds record and was a heavy favorite to best-of-seven series that determines over a shortened, eight-mile course. quickly defeat the British boat. Vic­which 12-meter foreign yacht will The New York Yacht Club must tory '83 was 31-18 in the challenge a U.S. boat for the sailing pick one of the boats to defend the preliminaries, but had won only two world's top prize. Cup by Sept. 8. The two 12-meter of nine races against the Aussie 
Australia ll's innovative wing-like yachts have almost identical records yacht. keel has helped the boat d01pinate the windward legs of races all sum­mer. But the Aussies cut the British lead hy only three seconds on the t1rst windward leg Wednesday and lost 27 seconds on the second windward leg. 
The British boat held a 45-second 
The sports department is always looking for people who are in­

lead going into the t1nal windward 
terested in writing about Notre Dame or Saint Mary's sports. If 

leg. The Aussies made up 32 seconds 
you are interested, watch the paper for details about an organiza­

during a furious tacking duel on the 
tional meeting or contact Mike at 239-5323. 

last leg, hut Victory '83 crossed the t1nish line 13 seconds ahead. Both boats flew protest flags, 
CLIP AND SAVE

1I ---------------------------------------, 
I 



r-m4:-i~ts-;rtt;~rt;1 
I '>n '-'":1 Haircut, Shampoo, I ·1 , Blow Dry, & Condition I 
I I
Reg. $15 
54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. 
N $B SQ 1

IAcross from Martin's on St. Rd.23 QW • WITH COUPON 1 Tues, Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 H . t I $S I 
Thur,Fri 8:30-8:30 a1rcu on y c~~:~N~I 272•0312 277~1691 
S6011erappllestoMALEpatronsonly.----=:._ Hair must be washed day ol cut. 
I 
ATTENTION! Students, Staff, and Faculty! I 
A discount card, good at 19 area businesses, has been distributed at registration and through department offices. Ifyou did not receive one, you may pick one up at Student Activities Office, Student Government, or Student Union Ticket Office in LaFortune. Card may be used by any student, staff, or faculty member. 

15% Discount 
~ not including 
· sale items 
University Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls Elkhart 
THE: TVPICALNA\JY MAN') LOCK€R. 
We know' horne's a hard ploc" to leave Our 1f you th1nk 1t looks good. JUSt wou till ynu hove been after you've skted rn rhe Alp~. f1shed 1n New Zeolond. htked tn S~in. and gone ~wtmmtng tn the Aegean. as a Navy offtcer We really aren'r kidcitng when we soy, "J01n the Navy ond see rhe world" 


NAVY OFFICBIS 
GETII£SPONSIIIAITTFAST. 
NROTC SCHOLARSHIPS AND COLLEGE PROGRAM BENEFITS WORTH UP TO $30.000 ARE AVAILABLE TO QuALIFIEDNOTRE DAME. SAINT MARY'S, I USB. HOLY CROSS. AND BETHEL COLLEGE STUDENTS, 
CONTACT NROTC. NOTRE DAME· 239·64420R THE SOUTH BEND NAVY RECRUITING OFFICE. 233-3911 for details. 

·' ..,..d ·~...~, 1/l.JI.,J# ~#' · s.·~ rJtd • 1 "' rt. CLIPAND·S"'-VE 
~ 
l . . . •. .~\v·-..-. ···~·~'".::t'*"P'~·,..-' ..Ii •. ., , , ., •.• .to •,."' ~ :~ lt •.t .. ~·-t *t '!. ...._ .......,.;,.-...-. -·'""!f"ti,~·;\t'-'~'4\v"'~~*~~"\\.'-'-';"-"'"LW..:.t:.:"4..r-....r::rc~'li
---------------------------------------~
·"•V..•.i'_,._..,.._,Jf.i'.I'IT.,Z_.IF<'F~w<*-•'tf'•""'" · ·• • •..!';-'\."!.."'l.i · .J'~J'.r..,, 
...... 

The Observer Thursday, September 1, 1983-page 14 
Quarry scores TKO against Guerra 
Larkin's Box Score 1981 
Time Played ·55 minutes 
Tackles made ·10 
Tackles for losses· 1 (15 yards) 
Fumble recoveries · 1 
1982 
Time Played· 264 minutes Tackles made ·112 Tackles for l.osses · 8 (23 yards) Fumble recoveries . 0 
1; 

ALBUQUERQUE, N. M. ( AP) ­Formt·r he;~vywt:ight contender Jer· ry Quarry began his comeback hid last night by making short work of unheralded Lupe Guerra, needing only four punches to score a first round TKO. 
Quarry, who had fought only once in the past eight years, roared out of his corner and raced out to mel'! (iuerra. The ;\H-year-old wasted little time as he slammed Guerra to the canva~ with a powerful left hook 
· second~ inro the first round. Guerra, who was named as an I I th-hour replacement this week for Rocky Casale, got back on his 
feet. But he did not stay up long. 
Quarry was immediately on top of him. He threw three punches and the third was another left hook that put Guerra on his back again. 
Guerra's corner threw in the towel, and the bout was stopped on­ly ;\2 seconds after it had begun. 
Quarry, whose last tight was in 1977. has returned to the ring with hopes ofwinnir<g a world champion· ship. Although he never captured the title in the heavyweight rank~. he has started down the road that he hopes will end with a cruiserwcight crown. 
"I threw that left hook perfect,'' 

Quarry said of ~he tlrst blow that stunned (iuerra and determined the outcome of the bout. 
Quarry said he will next tight on Sept. 2H in Scranton, Pa. The an nounced opponent is Steve \1or· mino. 
Quarry, who in his prime had fought heavyweight champions Muhummad Ali and Joe Frazier. im· proVt·d his record to 52-H-4. (juerra. out of Omaha, Neh., dropped to 22­9·1. 

Thursday is 
Tankard Night in the ''Terrace Lounge'' South Bend's largest 34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
$2.50 
!Sorry. No mug sales this year.l 
Thursdays are fun at the Marriott! 
SOUTH BEND _\\Qrriott 
HOTEL 
l<!:l \ St. .Jost"ph Sth'<•t. South Bend. Indiana 46601 
is accepting applications for the position of Features Copy Editor. Deadline, 5 pm. Friday, Sept. 2. This is a paid position. 
For more information, 
call Sarah at 239-5303. 
You're young, free-spirited. We think GenerrarM sportswear 
. is just what you~ looking for. 
The Varsity Shop introduces Generra sportswear for fall. A light-hearted, unstructured dressing strategy that's built around comfort. True to the spirit of young men like yourself. Poly/cotton button­down shirt, 24.00. Pleated pants, 26.00. Heavyweight, all-cotton jersey, 30.00. Plain-front pants, 26.00. See these and other Generra collectibles in light-washed autumn colors at The Varsity Shop, Scottsdale Mall and University Park. 


,.. 

\. 
'· 
. ' . 
• • t ~ I o • • • \ \ \ t '1 'II • ·~ 1, 1 , ~ • • .. ll .............. .. 


'JI['~~C3l~--------------------------------------·--•T•h•u-rs•d•a•y-,S•e•p•t-em
__b_e_r_1_,_1_9_8_3___p_a_g_e_1..5 



Step a n M a IIW&/dh'/14'////ff&,Wl#//AW4?/&}7 ·~ 
Thurs. Sept 1 10AM · 6PM Stepan Center 
Featuring 

Furniture, plants, graphic arts, lumber and Used Book Exchange and Refrigerator Rentals A SERVICE OF YOUR STUDENT UNION 
.......· 
r.··· 

SAY, llfEA/T YtJ(J 111E6l/YWlfO lJEfFHO£[) TIIAT H08Sf£T< z AP/'f!T; IT WAS A 1(AT1{£R "'£[)(J(£-TliE-'8ta/TlJI?.GI"? TRICKY OEF£1v'S£. BUT T1?fJTH ANOJ(JST/C£PREVAIL£0, TliEYAt.t.IAY.5 [)0. · 
SHMEN 
The Daily Crossword 
© 1983 Tribun-3 Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/1/83 All Rights Reserved 
Campus · ~-· 
•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Film, "An Officer and a Gentleman," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union 

•
7:1 5 p.m. -Slide Presentation, The Vatican Collection, Annenberg Auditorium, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Art and the Rhythms of Learning," Prof. Stephen Rogers, Notre Dame, Library Lounge 

•9 
p.m. -Meeting, Notre Dame Gaming Club, Grace Hall Pit 


. TV Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8 p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9 p.m. 
10 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Joker's Wild 34 Straight Talk 16 Godfather Pt. IV 22 Magnum, PI 28 Eye on Hollywood 34 The Ascent of Man 28 Too Close for Comfort 22 Simon and Simon 28 Reggie 34 Flickers from Masterpiece Theatre 28 It Takes Two 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Middletown 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Tennis Highlights 28 ABC News Nightline 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
The Far Side ! 
I • ' ' 

''HtiiiiiiHIII...IIIIIIIHHIHiil'tft..........HIIHH....IH...IIHII...HIH.....IIIIft...llllltHIIIIIIIIIIIItllll......, 
AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS i 
fic)dler on the roof .•I 

Want~ed: Actors, Singers, Dancers No Previous Experience Necessary 
Thurs Sept 1 Chautaqua Fri Sept 2 2nd Fir Lafortune Ballroom 
:7:00PM 

!tiHH....HII....II....HI...HM4tiONIII..........I ......HHIII.......II:IH...HMI......HIM!fHIIMII...IIIIHI....~ 
..··. ~..: 
Thursday, September 1, 1983-page 16


Sports 

Broken arm sidelines Larkin for season 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
Gerry Faust's voice was under­standably somber yesterday after­noon when he announced at the annual Skywriters' Luncheon that junior linebacker Mike Larkin would be lost for the 1983 season with a broken left arm. 
The injury occurred in practice on Monday, but was riot diagnosed as a broken arm until yesterday. The arm was the same one that Larkin broke last spring which kept him out of the final practices and also out of the Blue-Gold game. 
"Mike had broken his arm about here," said Faust, pointing to a spot hallWay up the forearm. "The doc­tors said that the-arm wa!> fine this fall, but he caught a helmet in the same place. 
"He had been wearing a pad over his arm, but it was a case of wearing

The Observer /File Photo 
the wrong pad at the wrong time."

junior linebacker Mike Larkin is lost for the nouncement yesterday at the annual Skywriters 
The 6-1, 219-lb. Larkin was the

1983 football season due to a broken arm. Irish luncheon. SeeMikeSullivan's story at rightfor the 
regular weakside linebacker last

bead coach Gem• Faust made the somber an-details on Larkin's injury. 
White Sox & Orioles increase.division leads 
CHICAGO ( AP)-Ron Kiltlc hit a three-run homer to lead tht· White Sox and Floyd Bannister to a 7-3 vic­tory over the Kansas City Royals last night. 
Bannister, 13-10, earned his I Oth victory in 11 starts since the All-Star break, and the White Sox won their fifth straight ~ame and increasing their American League West lead to 1 0 1-2 games. 
Larry Gura, I0-16, took the loss as the Royab fell for the fourth straight time. 
Bait. 10, Tor. 2 

TORONTO (AP) -Todd Cruz cappnl Baltimore's seven-run first inning with a thrt·e-run homer and Eddie Murray tripled, douhled, and singled as the Orioles t·ruised to their dghth consecutive triumph with a I 0-2 victory over the Toronto Blut· Jays last night. 
Jim Gott, the starting Toronto pitcher, htced six Orioles, retired none, and was lifted with the bases loaded and Baltimore leading 3-0. 
Gott, 7-12, opened the game by walking AI Bumbry. Jim Dwyer then singled, and Cal Ripken walked to load the bases. Murray, John Lowenstein and Ken Singleton followed with RBI singles to chase Gott. 
Mike Morgan gave up a run­scoring grounder to Rich Dauer before Cruz unloaded with his lOth homer of the season into the bleac­hers in left-center. 
Murray made it 8-2 in the fourth with an RBI triple, Dauer drove in a seventh-inning run with a sacrifice fly, and Murray scored in the ninth on a sacrifice fly. 
Hous. 4, Pitt 1 

HOUSTON (AP) -Joe Niekro tossed a five-hitter and Dickie Thon picked up his National League­leading 17th game-winning RBI as the Houston Astros beat the: Pitts­
' burgh Pirates 4-1 last night. The Pittsburgh loss, coupled with Philadc:lphia's victory, cut the Pirates' lead in the NL cast to one game. Niekro, 12-1 I, struck out seven and walkt·d two. Rod Scurry, 4-H, suffered the loss 
in relief for the Pirates as he was 
charged with two runs in 2-3 in­
nings. 
With two out and the score tied 
1-1 in the eighth, Bill Doran singled 
and moved to third on a single by 
Terry Puhl. Kent Tekulve replaced 
Scurry, and Thon bounced an infield 
hit down the third base line scoring 
Doran. Phil Garner sliced a double 
down the right field line to score 
Puhl and Thon. 
Clev. 7, Cal. 5 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AI')-George Vukovich singled -home two runs with two outs in the lOth inning last night to give the Cleveland Indians a 7-5 victory over the California An­gels. 
Pat Tabler began the inning with a single off right-hander Luis Sanchez, 8-7, but was forced at second on Broderick Perkins' sacrifice artempt. Perkins moved to second on Gor­man Thomas' deep fly to center and Ron Hassey was walked intentional­ly before pinch hitter Chris Bando also walked to load the bases. 
Vukovich, who had entered the game for detensive purposes in the eighth inning, then lined his single up the middle. 
Rick Sutcliffe, 1 S-9, who was ejected in the fourth inning of his Tuesday night start after throwing hrushback pitches, made his first relief appearance of the season and picked up the win. Jamie Easterly pitched the 1Oth for his fourth save. 
N.Y. 7, L.A. 1 
NEW YORK (AP)-Mookie Wil­son's three-run homer and Mark Bradley's inside-the-park home run highlighted a tivc-run, fourth-inning as the New York Mets defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers 7-1 Wedesday night. 
Mike Torrez, 9-I 4, won his third straight game, scattering eight hits while striking out six and walking two. Fernando Valenzuela, 13-8, gave up all seven runs in six innings. He struck out seven and walked two in dropping his second straight deci­sion. 
Bradley's one-out home run, his 
see BASEBALL, page 12 
season after having an impressive freshman year. He was '"cond on the team to Mark Zavagnin in tackles with 112, only one behind Zavag­nin's total of 113. 
A number of college football publications thought enough of his talent and experience to place him on their all-America squads. Street & Smitb and GamePian both named him honorable mention at lineback­er. 
Obviously, Larkin, probably one of the quickest linebackers in Notre Dame history, will be difficult to replace. It is no surprise that Faust is not ready to make a commitment on a replacement. 
''I'm not ready to make a decision about who'll replace Mike," he said. ''I'm going to talk to the players before I make the decision." 

It appears that sophomore John McCabe, senior Tom ~urphy, or junior joe Bars will take over the spot. Fortunately for the Irish, the linebacking corps is one of the deepest groups on the squad. 
Experienced Naylor leads defense 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports Writer 

The 1983 Notre Dame defense will line up in what is called an un­balanced 5-2 by the coaching staff. Like last year when they ranked tenth in the nation in total defense, this year's defense should be among the best in the country. And this year, like last, the defense will be particularly strong up front and in the middle. 
Up until yesterday it was thought that the Irish defense would again be lead by its linebacking trio of Mike Larkin, Tony furjanic and Rick Naylor. However, yesterday, Gerry Faust announced that weakside linebacker Larkin had broken his left arm in practice and would be lost for the season. 
Now with only nine days left until the Purdue opener, the Notre Dame defense finds itself with only one ex­perienced linebacker, that being Rick Naylor. In addition to Naylor and the three down linemen, the Irish will start Mike Golic at defensive end (two starts in 1982), Tony Furjanic at middle linebacker (one start), and most likely either Joe Bars or Rick DiBernardo at Larkin's vacated weakside position. 
Although the Irish are fairly deep 
at linebacker, Larkin's injury hurts 
the Irish badly. Neither DiBernardo 
or Bars is as quick or possesses the 
foot speed of Larkin whose speed 
enabled him to cover fast wide 
receivers who normally are too 
quick for most linebackers. 

Against the run few in the country 
are better than Larkin. Last season he 
totaled 112 tackles just one behind 
team leader Mark Zavagnin. Larkin, 
thought by some preseason publica­
tions to be an all-America candidate, 
will have to watch from the sidelines 
now as sophomore Rick DiBernardo 
or juniorjoe Bars tills in. 

If the job goes to DiBernardo it 
will require that h.e switch from the 
strongside to the weakside, a tough 
transition to make by September 10. 
Bars also has no game experience on 
the weakside, as last season his 
playing time came as a strongside 
linebacker. After experimenting in 
the middle this past spring, he was 
switched to the weakside at the out­
set offall practice. 

Whoever gets the starting nod, 
though, the Irish will be _weaker on defense without Larkin. As lineback­er coach George Kelley said Tues­day before learning of the injury, "We've never had another one like Mike here before." 
Also trying to fill large shoes is Tony Furjanic who will try to add his name to the list of recent greats in the middlt-. People will always make 
compari!>ons  to  Bob  Golic,  Bob  
Crable,  and  Mark  Zavagnin,  but  
Tony is not listening.  

''I'm not really letting it (the com­parisons) play in my mind," says Fur­janie. ''I'm just worrying about the upcoming season and my play as a middle linebacker. I'm not really concerned about the tradition or anything like that. 
"I think my game has improved since the spring, but I'm still having a little trouble with my pass coverages. But that should be.straig­tened out by the end of this week." 
In addition to possessing intel­ligence, strer.gth, field savvy, and six Playboy magazine covers signed by the centerfold, furjanic has become a Notre Dame fan favorite after only one season. 
No wonder. In 1982, his play on specialty teams could best be described as an exercise in search and destroy -perhaps something he learned this summer while working for National Wreckers in Chicago. 
"He's playing extremely well," 
see LINEBACKERS, page 11 

Senior Tom Murpb.J.• is just one member ofa bigb~y rated Irish defensive corps. Steve Labateoutlinesbow the defense stacks upfor the upcoming 1983 season in his article to the right. 



