• • . Aspirin Man -page 7 

VOL. XVII, NO. 82 till' imll'pL"ndt·nt ~tudt·nt Ill'\\ ~papt·r ~lT\ ing notrl' Jaml' and ~aint mary·~ 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1983 

Disarmament running out of time: Hesburgh 
By TIM VERCELLOTII 
News Editor 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh said that time is running out on the possibilities for disarmament, a conclusion that he and 14 other religious leaders reached at a recent conference in Vienna, Austria. 
"We don't have a whole lot of time," he said at a press conference yesterday, noting that technological advances such as the Stealth bomber make the prospect of verifiable reductions increasing­ly remote. 
The result of the meeting of religious leaders from around the world was a statement calling for "verifiable disarmament agreements leading to the elimina­tion of nuclear weapons." 
Referring to the continued in­crease in weapons sophistication, Hesburgh said that if verifiable disarmament steps are not taken, ''we can very well get ourselves in a position where we can't verify. Then the fat is on the fire." 
In response to a question regar­ding the upcoming campus referen­dum vote on a unilateral freeze resolution, Hesburgh said, "I'm not in favor of a unilateral nuclear freeze." He explained that while a unilateral freeze would not en­danger American security, it would be "better to keep everything in a bilateral situation, because we want to get both sides moving in the other direction, not just one side." 
Th,. Vi..nna conference was the sixth in a series of Hesburgh­initiated international gatherings of religious and scientific figures on the arms issue. The University president said that the next step would be meetings with leaders from the Islamic, Hindu and Bud­dhist faiths, possibly in Cairo, New Delhi and Tokyo respectively. 
Hesburgh defended the role of religious leaders in calling for an end to the arms race. 
"If the Church doesn't speak out on the greatest moral problem fac­ing humanity in the history of humankind, the Church would forfeit its ability, or credibility, to 
speak  out  on  anything,"  he  
declared.  
Responding  to  allegations  that  

his efforts were "opening up the country to the Russians," Hesburgh called the charges "baloney." 
He stressed the gravity of the continued growth of U.S. and Soviet nuclear arsenals. 
"We have never before as a human species faced the possibility of eliminating our whole species, and all of the rest of life on earth with it," he said. 
Hesburgh noted there is still time to avoid that possibility, and called for an injection of "creative, hard­nosed thinking into this whole system, because there are things that could be done, and could be done right now, without in any way affecting our security." 
"Unless we start the motion downward, we can't have a great deal of hope," he said. 

weekend of April 9 at the Palmer House in Chicago. With Hennessey are Moya Nickodem (I) and Cathy Murray. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
State of Union address 


Reagan shifts to curb deficits 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Reagan asked Congress last night for standby tax boosts and a selective freeze of federal spending to within five percent of the current budget, in order to curb spiraling deficits he deemed "a clear and pre­sent danger to the basic health of our Republic." 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Kennedys reflect on Iran 
At Saint Mary's 
By PAM RICHARDSON 
Staff Reporter 
Louisa Kennedy, wife of former hostage Moorhead 
C. Kennedy, stressed the importance of women com­bining family and career in today's society Monday night at Saint Mary's Carroll Hall as Women's Oppor­tunity Week continued. 
In her lecture entitled: "Risk Taking: Choice, Change, and Challenge," Kennedy commented that she is "very proud, happy, and content to be a woman. We (women) conquer all, I think." 
Kennedy reflected on how she coped with the crisis of her husband's 444 days of captivity, describing crisis as a period when one is downcast and unhappy. She said that her strength during the hostage situation came from her strong upbringing. She also was grateful to the American public for the support it gave to the hostage families. Her husband and the other hostages "were brought home on the wings of prayer," she said. 
Kennedy commented that the first reaction one has to a crisis is the "crisis of chance. We feel we have no control over it," she explained. Another response Kennedy felt was great anger, a feeling which lasts longer than any other. "Anger is followed by blame," she said. Her anger was first aimed at the United States government. She found, however, that anger gets one nowhere. 
The next phase Kennedy described was accpetance. "Only then do you know what your goal is," she ex­plained. "I can't stress how important acceptance is." 
Humor, Kennedy stressed, is one of the most im-
See IRAN, page 3 



At Notre Dame 
By KATHY WEISENBERG 
News Staff 

Ayello ribbon tied around the speaking podium welcomed Moorehead Kennedy and his wife Louisa to the Memeorial Library Auditorium last night, where they spoke on their experience of the Iranian hostage crisis and the lessons in international policy which may be learned from it. 
Mrs. Kennedy, who was an economic counselor in Tehran during the seizure of the United States em­bassy in 1979,repeatedly suggested that national pro­blems be olved in the same way as personal crises. 
Mrs. Kennedy began the lecture, "Survivorship: Peacemaking and crisis resolutions," by revealing that her initial reaction to her husband's captivity was one of anger towards the U.S. government. The most dif­ficult thing to deal with, she said, was the waiting "in limbo,; never exactly sure of what was occuring in either Washington or Iran. · 
After receiving a letter from her husband five weeks into the crisis, Mrs, Kennedy finally accepted the situation, uncertain of what action she could take. Eventually, with her support, F.L.A.G., the Family Liaison Action Group, ,-.'as formed. This coalition, she maintained, was a positive way of coping with the tension felt by all the hostages' families involved. 
Mr. Kennedy's initial reaction, however, was one of denial. "Oh, gee, I've got a luncheon meeting tomorrow with an important banker," was the first thought to cross his mind. His attitude then progress­ed from this to fear to boredom to hopes of release. 
After the reality sunk in, Mr. Kennedy said, "we all 
See HOPE, page 4 
He called for provisional income and energy tax increases that could take effect Oct. I, 1985, if his freeze is approved, the economy recovers, and the deficit keeps in­creasing despite his measures. 
"America is on the mend," declared Reagan in an address which outlined several midterm 
shifts in an economic course that has produced a record flood of red ink. His spending limits would ap­ply to the total federal budget ­sparing defense. The five percent overall increase is designed to take inflation into account. Reagan was greeted by a two-minute standing ovation as he strode down the center aisle of the House and then gave the speech to a joint session of Congress and a nationwide broadcast audience. In his State of the Union address, Reagan proposed an outright freeze on most domestic spending pro­grams, with no inflation allowance. He said federal pay and retirement benefits, both military and civilian, should be frozen for one year, and cost of living increases in Social Security, veterans benefits and the like should be delayed for six mon­ths. Reagan said he would a-djust his defense budget to save about $55 billion over the next five years. But a senior administration official, speaking on the condition that his name no be used, said the proposed freeze would leave room for an in­crease of about 14 percent in the defense budget next year. · Advising Congress that his budget will propose the spending freeze, Reagan said: "I know this is strong medicine, but so far we have only cut the rate of increease of federal 'Spending ... On the whole, the budget I am pro­posing for the next fiscal year will increase no more than the rate of inflation --in other words, the federal government will hold the line on real spending." To deal with the highest unemployment rate in :nore than 40 years, Reagan proposed a six-
month extension of unemployment 
compensation for those who have 
exhausted their benefits, tax credits 
for employers who hire the long­
term unemployed, additional job 
trammg funds, and a below­
minimum wage for teen-agers hired 
for summer jobs. 
He asked for a one percent sur­
charge on taxable incomes and an 
excise tax on domestic and im­
ported oil. 
The tax increases would be levied 
as of Oct. I, 1985 only if the deficit 
is projected to exceed 2.5 percent of 
the gross national product --and 
only if the economy is growing, not 
in recession. 
Faced with a deficit now 
estimated at more than $200 billion 
for the current fiscal year, the 
president's "standby tax" would 
raise between $40 billion and $50 
billion a year from fiscal 1986 
through 1988, if needed to curb the 
flow of red ink. 
The one percent surcharge would apply to both individuals and cor­porations. The excise tax on oil, about $5 per barrel, would add 12 cents to the cost of each gallon of gasoline, according to a fact sheet distributed to the media. 
The so-called spending freeze for fiscal 1984 would apply to pro­grams with automatic yearly cost­of-living raises, such as Social Security, other pension and disability programs and food stamps. 
"For too many of our fellow citizens --farmers, steelworkers and autoworkers, lumbermen, black teen-agers and working mothers--this is a painful period," Reagan said. 
"We must all do everything in our power to bring their ordeal to an end," he declared. 
The president's address was scheduled for delivery to a JOint session of the House and Senate, and a nationwide television and radio audience, at 9 p.m. EST. Ex­cerpts were made available at the White House late yesterday after­noon. 
. 
t 
~· 


Wednesday, January 26, 1983 -page 2 


News Brie/§ 
By The Ohserl'er and The Associated Press 
A novel written by Sonia G. Gernes, professor of English at Notre Dame, has been selected by the American Library Association for inclusion on its Notable Books of 1982 list. Gernes' The Way to St. Jves, published last year by Scribners, was one of the 42 books praised by the ALA "for their significant con­tribution to the widening of knowledge or for the pleasure they can provide to adult readers." The list was released Jan. II at the ALA's Midwinter Meeting in San Antonio. -The Observer 
Father Edward Malloy, professor of theology and associate provost at the University has written a book entitled The Ethics of Law Fnforcement and Criminal Punishment to be published this spring by the University Press of America. Accor­ding to Malloy, the book is "an attempt to reflect on the local pro­blems of crime and domestic violence while drawing upon the rich tradition of philosophical and theological teachings about war and international violence."-The Observer 
Pope John Paul II gave Roman Catholics a new code of church laws yesterday that probably lengthens the process of annulments for Americans, opens more administrative posts to women and makes Mass attendance obligatory two days a year in­stead of 10. The first revision of the church's law in 66 years also reduces the grounds for automatic excommunication from 37 to seven, including abortion, and incorporates the current pope's strong views against the involvement of priests and nuns in politics. The new code of I ,752 canons, or LAWS, TAKES EF­FECT ON Nov. 27, the first Sunday of the Advent. Drafted by a 74-member commission over a 17-year period, it reflects the sweeping changes called for by the Second Vatican Council in 1962-65 and replaces a 1917 code of 2,414 canons as the rules for the 750 million followers of the Latin rite. -AP 
. Another hydrogen leak detected in a second test­fmng of space shuttle Challenger's main engines will delay its late February launch date at least "several weeks," a top space agency official said from Cape Canaveral, Fla., yesterday. "I think the launch date at the end of February is not achievable," said Lt. Gen_. James A. Ab:ahamson, head of the shuttle program for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. -AP 
The federal government spent $17.9 billion more than it took in last month, pushing the federal deficit for the fiscal year's first quarter to $68.3 billion, the government said yesterday. That put the three-month figure at more than half the record deficit of $Ill billion for all of fiscal 1982. The October-December deficit was about $20 billion higher than during the same period of fiscal 1982, keeping the government squarely on the road to smashing the record for an annual deficit. The December red ink was actually less than the $19.5 billion for the same month one year ago. But it followed record and near-record monthly deficits in October and November. -AP 
A _fiery explosion demolished a building at an Ireco Chem1cal Co. plan~ southwest of Lehi, Utah, yesterday, killing four people, authontles said. Ralph Coomes, a dispatcher for the Utah Cou?tY _Sh~riffs office, said the four unidentified people were workmg ms1de the building at the time of the II :50 a.m. ex­plosion, and all were killed. Authorities had not determined the cause of the blast. James Parsell, a state boiler inspector said he was working at the six-building plant complex when the e~plosion occurred. He said about 3,000 pounds of explosives went off in the building when he was 150 yards away. Parsell said that after a fireball and a massive concussion subsided, he went outside to find the building demolished. The plant is located about 15 miles southwest of Lehi, which is 25 miles south of Salt Lake City. ­
AP 

~armless traces of cyanide were found in the water sup­ply m Hammond, La., yesterday, while a continuing rash of anonymous threats prompted officials to turn off the taps in four more Louisiana towns. Health officials said they could not tell whe~her cyanide found in the Hammond water was a naturally oc­c~rnng tra~e of the substance or had been introduced deliberately. Smce the f1rst threat last Thursday in St. Gabriel, more than 30 telephone calls have been received across Louisiana warning of poisoning in public waterworks. The tapwater for at least 220 000 residents has been disrupted. The calls -many presumably f~om "~~pycats" prompted state officials yesterday to urge local of­ficials to keep the water flowing unless the tests find it to be con­taminated. -AP 
Snow flurries and cold today. High today reaching 26 and low dipping to 15. A 20 percent chance of snow throughout the afternoon and evening. -The Observer 
Taking a cue from VU 
Imagine this scenario: A major Catholic coeducational university heads toward the 1980s without a sufficient student center for campus life ... 
An old, large building stands in the middle of the campus. This building is often referred to as the stu­dent center, but, except for its campus location, it isn't the center of anything but controversy. The old building is poorly used. lt provides a fast-food restaurant which serves only starch foods, a few stu­dent offices, and a pseudo-gameroom containing a few pool tables and a couple of old Space Invader 
games. 
Needless to say, the students of this respected in­stitution are upset. They cannot understand why the University ignores-their need for a new facility. Those who live off-campus are especially upset because the old building, which should provide a place for them to kill time in between classes, fails miserably in this 
case. 
The University's faculty begin to voice their opi­nion. According to many of the faculty members, a new "university center" is needed to unite the students and faculty. Many faculty members never enter the old building. Therefore, student/faculty interaction is often negatively affected. 
Many people agree that a new facility is needed. Discussion of this subject grows. The administration, which can ignore the topic no longer, hires a commit­tee of experts to investigate the situation. 
The committee recommends that an expanded university center be built as soon as possible to alleviate the ever-increasing problem. 
As part of a larger development program, the University agrees to the project. Students, faculty and architects are consulted in the planning of the new building, which will be lncated next to the old building 
~cr>Hil\.1 
111foi5fl\uU. 
The Observer Design Editor The Return of Tim Neely Design Assist am .......... Troy Illig Layout Staff .......... Carole Clark News Editur . ....... Mark Worscheh Copy Editur . ......... Diane Dirkers Editorial Layout ........ Tari Brown Sports Copy Editor .... Mike Riccardi Typists . .... Mary Torchia, Tim Neely Monica Gugle, Bruce Oakley ND Day editor . ......... Jane Panfil SMC Day Editor ........ Tari Brown Ad Design . .............. Bob Slota StaffArtist ............ Don Grable Photographer ........ Rachel Blount Guest Appearances ... a Polish prince, (and John Lewandowski), an old man in a white house, Bigfoot, Needles and Pins, New call letters, same old sound, Catherine, Joe and God (dimen­stonless, as always, P. MeG., Dzave and Szuzanne, The Smell ofdggies, Eb­beny eyes, the Big Cheese and his wine. the Fos, Ennui ... "You can check out any time you like, but you can never leave ... "  
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 1; published Monday through Fr~day and on horne football Saturdays except dur~ng exam and vaca110n pertods The Observer 15 publ1sned by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col lege Subscrtpt1ons rna y be purchased for $25 per year tS15 per se•ne~terJ by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 15 a •nernber of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved Second class postage pdld at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556  



David Dziedzic 
Executive News Editor 
Inside Wednesday. 
s~ it will be at the center of campus. The new center 
will_ .h.ave 67,000 square feet of building space. 
Facilities to be mcluded are a music listening room 
several lounges, meeting rooms, and a 500-seat multi~ 
purpose room. And, of course, a real movie theater 
which will show first-run films. ' 
. The University begins a campaign to fund the pro­
JeCt. The $6.4 million is collected and, within three 
years, the university center is a reality. 
Does this sound like the dream of an optimistic 
Domer? Well, it isn't. The above is a true story. 
Believe it or not. 
It is the story of Villanova University, whose Con­
n~lly Center offers an expanded gameroom (with real 
v1deo games), a dining facility, ice cream shop, snack 
shop, etc. A full-time director runs the center, which is 
staffed mostly by students. 
The building is open 102 hours a week during the 
school year. Although it isn't expected to be self­
supporting, it comes close. 
This sounds great, but has the center solved the pro­
blem? 
"Most definitely," answers director Marc Tuchman. "The center provides most of the facilities necessary. It has been well worth the investment." 
Students echo Tuchman's pleasure with the building. "It's fantastic," says Matt Fasano, a student who remembers the pre-Connelly Center days. "It's a great place to meet people and have fun." 
_Connelly Center is by far the busiest building on the VIllanova campus. According to Paullgnas, a student staffer, "it's almost impossible to find an empty room for a meeting." 
Lucy Gorski, Villanova's Director of Student Ac­tivities, says that "the students love the building. It's constantly used." 
Dr. Richard Neville, Vice President for Student ~i\e, realizes the true importance of Connelly Center. 
Its really given a heart to the whole campus," he says. "Everyone utilizes its services -faculty, staff and students. It's added a tremendous new spirit that never existed here before." 
I've been at Notre Dame for three years. Every year I hear complaints about the lack of a decent student center. But except for a handful of interested people, no one takes actiOn. 
Perhaps a "tremendous new spirit" is too much to ask of this place. 
So while the students of Villanova enjoy their new umverslly center, we sit back and complain. And wait. 



~New deadline for applying,i: Fri., Feb. 4, 
liS UJII 
i 
I 
Thursday, Jan. 27: Open Stage I 
9pm-?  I  
Friday, Jan. 28:  ~-.,,_'"'  
Dan Keusal & Friends 9:30-11  
Saturday, Jan. 29: "The Return of Boorne" 9-10:30 with little sister & Mr. James  II  



~~,.;~r:f!c~~~~ 
--~ ~-----~-~ 
The Observer
------------------------------W~ednesday, January 26, 1983 -page 3 
Women's Opportunity Week lecture 

Alu~nna says wo~nen need direction 

By ANNE MONASTYRSKI 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Though aware of "how trendy it has become to give advice," Mary Harris Veeder said during her speech last night that "women are desperately in need of direction." 
The 1964 Saint Mary's graduate returned to her alma mater last night to deliver her speech, "Work­ing Out and Working In; Advice Across the Ages," as pan of Women's Opportunity Week at Saint Mary's. 
Veeder cautioned women against the "culture pressure" created by the extremist's view that says a woman's career must come first in today's culture. According to Veeder, the view implies that a woman is "nobody unless she has open to possibilities. 

"Though goals differ, we all go into the .same working world," Veeder added. 
Her own career exemplifies these views. Currently Associate Pro­fessor of English at Indiana University-Northwest, Veeder is the author of two books. She also reviews children's books and writes a column for a local newspaper. 
Veeder was able to assume these roles by remaining "fairly flexible and persistent," she said. 
Veeder noted several generaliza­

Mary Harris Veeder tions about life which she has discovered and termed "Veeder's
the perfect job" -one that's Laws," laws not unlike Murphy's. 
tailored to a woman's formal train­
One law states, "Distrust alling. 

myths, especially those about"Smart people can begin from women." Veeder elaborated by say­any number of positions," she con­ing that not all doors are open totinued, advising women to remain women and that resentment toward 
professional women is prevalent. Veeder summed up her laws by saying, "Things won't go toward
Women's Fair scheduled 
any preconceived plan, but they can proceed.

today in LeMans Hall 
"But, I am not preaching passive 

By LAURA HARTIGAN 
NewsStajf 
At today's Women's Fair, two color consultants from Beauty For All Seasons will advise students on what fashion and cosmetic shades will work best for them. But if new colors do not appeal, the Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Council also will be on hand to suggest something in a basic green. 
These are two of more than a dozen organizations that will be in the LeMans lobby today from 10 to 4 p.m. to assist Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students in exploring their opportumties as women, the goal of Women's Opportunity Week. 
Peggy Phillips and Barbara Kracher will be representing Beauty For All Seasons, a local firm which analyzes skin tone and suggests which shades of makeup and clothing will complement the individual best. 
Other displays in the Women's Fair will include the Holy Cross Vocations Ministry and the Alumnae Association from Saint Mary's. 
• • . Iran 

continuedfrom page 1 
portant coping mechanisms one 
can have in a crisis. "When the go­
ing gets rough, keep your humor 
going." Humor gives psychological 
as well as physical strength to those 
in crisis situations, she said. 
By coping with a crisis, Kennedy feels that one can gain self­confidence, insight and in­dependence, and also learn not to take the world so seriously. 
Kennedy contrasted the hostage crisis and the trauma of death. She felt that after a death there is a period of grief and mourning, but during the hostage crisis, "we were in limbo, there was nothing we could do." 
Kennedy acted as spokeswoman for the Family Liaison Action Group (FLAG), representing the families of the hostages. She felt that the group was "very much needed by the time it was started," because the State Department could not give all of the vast amount of moral support needed by the hostage families during the crisis. 
FLAG was, for Kennedy, "a way to draw together. Nobody should be in a crisis alone." In a time of crisis one should never be afraid to seek company or help in coping, she concluded. 
acceptance (to disappointments in 
From the South Bend community life)," she emphasized. will be representatives from the Veeder continued by describing League of Women Voters, the the tone of the "self improvement" American Association of culture of today which conditions University Women," the YWCA, people to believe that everyone can the Mishawaka Republican turn his or her life around. "It wor­Women's Club, the South Bend ries me. It's so incredibly optimistic chapter of NOW and the and programmatic," she said. Women's Chapter of the Sex "Be sure you're doing what you Offense Staff. want to do," Veeder concluded. 
r·~::~n·;::::·;;~~~~:~:-------~~-1 
!I tt The Main Event" v~~ iI 
I ~ Y I 
I !11 I 
I SENIOR FORMAL I ~ I I April 9, 1983 k I 
I -~ ~ I
I Seniors... -1 I Start saving now for the event of the year i 
I I 

~---------------------------------------~ 







Mama· Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If \'OLI think ltaJi:m ti1od is lUSt spaglwtti :md pizz:t, we \'l' got a mouth opening l'\JX'rit·nn· \\ailing ti1r \'OLI t'\l'f\ \\'l'rhll'srlt\' night ti·111ll ; 110 It Hill p m at Thl' l.wking <;h.;~ Rl'staur:ult in till' S11uth Bend \Iamott 
lntroduLing \l:m1a \larn1 1tt ·s -a lm; 111 gus/1, :UTa\ of :uHip:L•;ta. lllilll'Sll'lllll'. tl·tturilll'. rarciatore. I~J.-.;agnl'. p:bta :md ti Ill\' saurl's. dlt'l'Sl'. hreatb :md dt·sst•rb. 
It s ;~I Sl'nnlup in a btin· ltali:m atn11 lSpht·n· ­rhl'rkered tahiL'l·loths. a strolling musiri:m ­till' \\orks. 
All \ou r:u1 l'at ti 1r Sh l)'\ Childrm ulllll'r I~ -~ S~ q; 

FREE CHIANTI 
.Just prl'Sl'llt tills ad tomur 11aitl'r and ll'l' II gtiL' 1ou a fn'L' l~1ttll' of Chianti to L'llJill 11 Jtil 11111r mml and Kl'l'p till' l~1tilL' :L' a \OIIIL'nir lltkr 1 alid tllrlillgh lanuan -~I. i'IX5 lillL' n1llp1111 pL'r t:thll' 
.i /"II eden/.' South BemlI.,\\arriott lfottl. 
125 \.St. Joseph St.. South Bend (219) 2.1'-t-2000 

Jim Leous, president of Cavanaugh and an interha/1 hockev player, makes a point during last nighr's H PC discussion of the fare ofthe ND hockey program. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
.......ri'...................·.·.-.·-~········Yri"J'J':J'.................................. mARDI GRAS S~OW SCULPTURE CO~TEST 
JQn 29-30th!! theme:ffiARDI GRAS 
Sketches of sculptures should be hQnded in to the student QCtivities office by JQn. 27. Sculptutes will 
Winning sculptors will be awarded be judged .., 3 ' ! 
,,
OJ SERVICES onthemeQnd for their hall's next party. oti inQiity 

fiTTEttTIOtt! 

ill thosC2 signe2d up for thC2 
MG dance2-a-thon: 
ThC2rC2 will bC2 a MfittDfiTORY me2e2ting on Monday. January 31 
in thC2 Library fiud. 
Bcz There -Aloha!! 

FITNESS FAIR Sunday, Jan. 30 
1 :00-4:15pm Angela Athletic Facility Saint Mary's College 
Keynote Address 

1:00pm 
MOTIVATION IN EVERYDAY LIFE Speaker:Willye White Five Time Olympic Participant 
2:00-4:15 Information Centers and Brief Presentations on Such Topics as Prevention of Sports Injuries Weight Training How to Evaluate Fad Diets Yoga Aerobics Sponsored by: The Health and Counseling Services Committee, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, IN 
-------------·---------------·· 
The Observer Wednesday, January 26, 1983 page4 

Spur student ticket sales 


HPC fights to save hockey 
By MIKE KRISKO showing Father Joyce that there is the issue to let the present student News Staff concrete support for the hockey body decide whether or nor they program," he said. Morrissey too want to support the migrant 
Approving of Keenan Hall Presi­President Ned Legare supported farm workers. What I'm asking you dent Brian Callaghan's proposal to Callaghan's proposal. "What hap­(the council) to do, is to attend the "have students make a written com­pened before would have little or Campbell's vs. FLOC debate and to mitment to purchase hockey tickets no effect on the hockey situation. decide if the council can endorse now," the Hall President's Council (Callaghan's) proposal isn't a pup­the FLOC's cause." agreed that each president should pet movement. It has tangible ef­In other business, Mr. Ken Hen­try to market hockey in each of f,ect," he added. dricks announced to the council 
After brief discussion,

their dorms. HPC President Mike that the Recreation DepartmentMcAuliffe said he would look into
McAuliffe proposed a letter be sent from the Northern Indiana State a procedure for getting this type of
to Father Edmund P. Joyce, pro­Hospital is holding an aluminum commitment, and that the council
posing the saving of the hockey can drive in order to raise funds for would take it from there. Hall
program on the basis of bringing purchasing a new van with adapta­
presidents were encouraged to look

ticket sales to the dorms, having tions for wheelchairs. The dorm into forming ticket committees in
hockey parties with possession of a contributing the most cans will each dorms. On another topic, 
game ticket a condition for getting receive a keg on Green Field for the 
Tom Merriman addressed the

into the party and bolstering sup­first home football game. council on the issue of the Farm
port by having coaches and players McAuliffe announced that Labor Organizing Committee's
speak in the dorms. Fathre Michael Heppen, director of 
boycott of all Campbell's and

Callaghan argued that these student residences, will not fine on­
Libby's products. He said that the

commitments weren't enough. "If campus housing applicants who, we split the season into two ticket follwoing standard procedure, sign 
University voted to support the boycott in 1980, but "due to the tur­

packages, and if we can get a contract, but decide to move off nover of students at the University, 
students to sign commitments to campus if they are denied R.A. it seem& only appropriate to re-vote
purchase tickets, we would be status. 
Mr. Neil King also announced the opening of his South Bend pic­ture service. He said that his service will cover "informal candid party pictures, sport team groups, dorm floor groups, and organizations." 
• • . Hope 
continuedfrom page 1 
prepared ourselves for the wall," meaning execution. But as the mon­ths dragged on, a feeling of boredom replaced the feeling of terror. The probiem of being in constant company with merely one 


ERE ARE JUST A FEW OF THE NAME BRANDS OF MERCHANDISE THAT MUST BE SOLD DURING THIS FINAL SALE' Don't miss OUt 
or two other roommates arose. The former hostage's methods ofadidas~ W~on (TJ;f,]if~ ltJconveRs~:. =zon dealing with this ranged from 
writing to playing cards to finding humor in the situation itself. The

(iii1 J/111(£, )t>ALDII\IG A~F ~11/£~ 
fact that the abductors did not want to be bothered by the captives and

l!1J ~BoAsT Pumn PCIW' ~ow"" 
that the hostages did not want to be there anyway was a cause for hilari­ty, said Mr. Kennedy. 
Now as executive director of the Cathedral Peace Institute in New York, Mr. Kennedy sees a need to form a basis for international peacemaking, Believing that all humans have Original Sin, they are all therefore capable of evil. The motives and means behind the hostage crisis were not unique to Iran. "All of us are greedy, all of us are violent, all of us shoot prisoners of war," he said. 

Wilson ·Converse understanding· of various imerna­
Values from $1.50-$2.50 
tional manners of thinking and liv­


T-SHIRTS 
ing. He also says that Americans

NOW ONLY 99e and up! 
are not instinctively good




,.o• 
reg. $5-6 value 
negotiators, that we all want to beIZOD Sport Socks winners. But "in international af­
01.~1. $2.99 
fairs, there are no winners any

Now $1.49pr.or 3pr f~r $4.00 
more. There will be now winner in
00 
the next war," he said. 
Applying this to contemporary issues, Mr. Kennedy expressed ap­prehension about the current freeze movements on weapons. Revealing his doubt that the Russians will ever pull back their armaments, Mr. Kennedy emphasized the press­ing need for negotiation. Inherent to the success of this negotiation is the understanding of each other's cultures. 



LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! 
Omega Productions, Inc. 
is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type 
of  music  for  any  type  
of event.  Parties  are  our  
specialtv.  Custom  music  

programming is available Call 684-R 100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 






Editorials 
Wednesday, January 26, 1983 -page 5 
_P.O. Box Q
In Memoriam 

To Our Beloved Notre Dame Family: 
FLOC debate 

It is the expected thing to do. To thank you; to tell you our appreciation for all you have done in easing 
Dear Editor: our university a truly Christian institution, our shared pain; to send you heartfelt gratitude for your prayers, Mass offer­
In his article "The Great N.D. Student," not jusr· one that is concerned about the ings, phone calls, letters, your deeply felt sympathy in our common loss of 
Michael Monk expressed very eloquently "black ink on the bottom of their income his concern for the growing apathy and statements."
Michelle and Rita. We do feel exactly so. As never before, we are in solidarity selfishness of the student body. Referring Michael Monk is right -we do have a
with you at the school of "Our Lady." to the "Save Hockey" campaign, Monk commitment to others. Here is our chance
To say only the above would be acceptable by common standards. Yet, at 
asks: "Where is the outcry that resounded to act on it -to respond to the injustices
least to the thought of our Murphy family, it would be a semi-sterile pro forma 
through N.D.'s hallowed halls three years being done to those who provide food for
statement. 
ago?" Another "cry" also was heard three our dinner tables and support them in their
We love Notre Dame. Sacred Heart Church and dormitory chapels, Christ 
years ago and will be heard again this year fight for basic human rights which Wf;. so within; present and former students and faculty; N.D. traditions and a famed, 
-the cry of the migrant farmworkers in often take for granted. The issues, indefinable spirit; the Grotto, the lakes (Notre Dame du Lac), the serene beau­
the Midwest struggling to break out of a however, are complicated and education is ty of the campus (even in harsh weather or during examinatio_n week): these 
vicious cycle of poverty and earn a decent needed to vote responsibly. Once again a have left indelible imprints on the lives of the father and three brothers who 
living. historic event will occur at Notre Dame. Yes, just three years ago the Notre Dame Campbell Soup Company, for the first
preceded Michelle and Rita to our school. To simply say "thank you" for your student body voted in favor of a referen­time ever, is willing to debate FLOC
outpouring of love would be an inadequate expression of just how deeply we 
dum to boycott Campbell and Libby­publicly on Monday, Jan. 31. Come and
feel. 
McNeil-Libby products, thereby suppor­hear both sides so you can vote responsibly
We must go beyond amenities; necessary as they are, in our search for 
ting the farmworkers in their struggle for on Feb. 8. 
peace. 
justice. It was an historic event, both for 
Ceci Schickel 

We challenge you, Men and Women of Notre Dame: 
FLOC (Farm Labor Organizing Commit­
College ofArts and Letters

Love God; even when his presence is inscrutable, seemingly absent. Love 
tee) and Notre Dame. Notre Dame was the yourself, created in the likeness of Jesus Christ. In such love comes the love of 
first university to officially endorse the others. Love those less endowed than you. Without false pride, recognize the 
boycott and its coverage in national news gift that is yours in being a member of the Notre Dame communit~·. Many 
(Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, 
Editor's Note 

etc.) made Notre Dame's support of the
would give much to be in your place. boycott significant to say the least. We
Be tolerant of each other. Be tolerant of your parents, brothers and sisters. 
should be proud of our support of the In a recent article, The Observer
Our nights are filled with thoughts of how we might better have helped your 
farmworkers -it's part of our tradition. 
reported a lecture by Charles K. Wilbur on

departed classmates prepare to stand with you as students under the Golden 
We also should be proud of the unique world hunger. Based on that article, Barry
Dome. We have peace in a firm belief that Michelle and Rita knew that we did 
opportunity we have as students to make Burr wrote a letter to the editor. A reply to
try, that we did care. 
University policy. Exercising our right by 
Mr. Burr by Professor Wilbur was wronglyYou are precious to your personal family. Tell them this without embarrass­
voting in the upcoming referendum to 
headlined "Student misquotes lecturer" ment or the mistaken notion that it is obvious. Yes, they do know. Yet, they 
renew the Campbell -boycott is a way to 
when in fact Burr based his letter on im­must be reminded of it frequently. They simply must. In gentle tones and 
break out of the egocentricity and com­
properly reported material. scribbled notes, we heard this message from Rita and Michelle. It is a deep 
placency that Monk describes and make source of strength in these devastating days. As you accept our "challenge," we will have cause for hope. We, as you, will continue to grieve but pray God's eternal plan will become more clear to us in 


Rice unconvincing 

knowing what special persons Michelle and Rita truly were. Father Hesburgh has phoned us twice. Digger Phelps and Gerry Faust have 
DearEditor: traception to masturbation, and implies that 
called. We received the Canisius game ball (the game was being played at the 
After reading Professor Charles Rice's ar­the two issues are related. Generally, mas­time the Mass of the Resurrection was being celebrated). The presence of 
ticle entitled "Sexuality and Ethics," turbation is indulged in during periods of Father Don McNeil and Sister Jean Lenz meant more to us than they will ever 
( 1/18/83) I am still puzzled as to why sexual abstinence, while contraception believe. I panicked when Fr. Dan's book, "Compassion: A Reflection of the 
"contraception is condemned by the un­facilitates union. Why would pornography Christian Life," was lost in household confusion. This priest truly understands 
broken teaching of the Church." Additional­interest a person engaging in sexual rela­ly, I see scant relation between tions? Rice's characterization insults
the meariing of compassion: "to suffer with." Classmates flew to Casper. We 
contraception and such indulgences as married and unmarried couples who use
are days behind on opening mail. We will try to respond personally. 
homosexuality and child abuse. contraception.
The eighth entry in the Notre Dame Hymnal is "Be Not Afraid." It was sung 
Professor Rice quotes Pope Paul's prohibi­Professor Rice's sweeping condemnation
during Communion time of the funeral Mass. The antiphon: "Be not afraid. I 
tion of "every action which, either is in an­of homosexual relationships bears an ex­
go before you always. Come follow me, and I will give you rest." 
ticipation of the conjugal act, or in its tremely tenuous connection to use of con­This is our faith. 
accomplishment, or in the development of traception. How can the issues be related God love you, brothers and sisters in Christ. 
its natural consequences, proposes, whether when a homosexual has no personal need 
PAX, 

as an end or as a means, to render procrea­for contraceptives' 
tion impossible." However, Rice sees no in­Concerning in vitro fertilization, the 1984
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph P. Murphy and Family 

consistency between this view and people scenario Rice paints is indeed frightening. acting as "arbiters of the divine plan" in However, in vitro fertilization also provides practicing partial abstinence during a children for couples who never could con­woman's fertile period, if done with serious ceive otherwise. Perhaps this is God's will, motives. Surely sexual abstinence renders through modern technology. procreation impossible, whether it be God's Professor Rice claims, "Since the intro­will or not. Within a marital context, duction of the pill, child beating has in­abstinence deprives a couple ofthe intimacy creased threefold"; however, the professor necessary for the unity of two solitudes. does not elaborate on any conceivable Abstinence and contraception alike ul­relationship between contraception and timately involve human judgement and child abuse. Professor Rice's sweeping state­prevent conception. ment is a clever and sophistic rhetorical 
Professor Rice also links contraception w device, and hence a trap for the unwary other consequences he terms "evils." reader. 
Rice states, "Contraception is the preven­Charles Rice believes pro-contraception tion oflife while abortion js the taking of lfe." forces maintain their beliefs through a lack Abstinence is also the prevention oflife. Rice · of understanding or ignorance of the assumes all couples view abortion as a fail­motives hehind Church doctrine. After safe for contraception; like all sweeping reading Rice's article, I am as much generalizations, this is not true. ,\1arijuana perplexed by this interpretation of Church use does not always lead to heroin addiction. law as I was before. Rice has failed in his duty 
Rice jumps from his belief that contracep­as a lawyer to connect beliefs to his conclu­tion ushers in abortions, to stating that abor­sions. As a champion of Conservative Chris­tions lead to euthanasia. How does tianity, he does not persuade, for he himself contraception -which like abstinence -has not first tested his assumptions. prevents life, clear the way for euthanasia which destroys life' 
Casper, Wyoming 
Donald]. Hubbard, 

It is ironic that Professor Rice likens con-
Second Year Law Student 


IheJJ~rver============  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Box Q, .Votre Dame,!.\' 46556 The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the L'ni­versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily retlect the policies of the administration of eit~er institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. L'nsigned editorials n:present the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space b available to all members ofthe communit,·. and the.' free expression ofvarying opinions on campus. through letter:-, is encourage·:.!. (219)239-5303  Editor-in-Chief.......... ................... Michael Monk Managing Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor .............. David Dziedzic SMC Executive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe ~ports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor ..... . .. ...... Paul McGinn Feuture.\ Editor Joseph :\lusumeci Photo !:dilor . ............................... Rachel Hlount  Business Manager ................. ...........Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto .'>)•stems Manager ........... ............... Bruce Oakley J<'ounded November 3, 1966  

Wednesday, January 26, 1983 -page 6 



Sports Brie s 

===:B~\=.l;h~l='~()~I~J~=-(='I'~I'~~~r~a=n=d~7=b~(='=A=s=sl:i:C:il:lf=~=II~P;t=.(='S:S::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The NV A office has announced that signups for men's and women's interhall track will end today. NVA also announced that cross-country ski rentals are available again this year. Call 239-6100 for more details. -The Observer 
Aerobic Dancing for faculty and staff starts this week. Classes will meet on Mondays and Wednesdays at 5:15p.m. in Gym 2 on the ACC upper concourse. A $12 fee will be charged for the seven-week course. -The Observer 
Notre Dame-Fordham tickets for the Feb. 10 game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half price to students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game of a doubleheader with Manhauan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are $5. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be showing the film "Football Fever" today at 9 p.m. in the Library Lounge. All are invited. -The Observer 




Classifieds 
NOTICES 
O.K. NO MORE CUTE STUFF ...IF YOU NEED A HAIRCUT AND DON'T WANT TO PAY MORE THAN $4(GUYS) OR S6(GIRLS) THEN CALL TODAY FOR YOUR VERY OWN APPOINTMENT. MICHOLE 233 -6456 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR Fri· day Noon Til Monday Noon $29.95 In· eludes 150 Free Miles. Sales Tax and Insurance Extra. Phone Rob for Reservations 259 -6459 
Home typing service in Mishawaka please call 259-2334. 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST: One dark blue CB insulated winter jacket, with ligh• blue stripe last seen at Bndg,,.·, Sat. night. If you took it by accident, please return it! Call Matt at 8369. 
FOUNO--Pa1r of mens gloves 1n a class­room on th1rd floor of tt e Engmeenng Bu1id1ng They look pretty expens1ve Call 3656 1f they are yours 
LOST -At Holy Cross party SAT. night REO wool hooded coat with navy lining, my name on the inside label -J.F. CONLEY, my 10 and key are in the pockets. Please call Joan at 2702. Please, it's my ONLY winter coat. 
FOUND: One man's leather. maroon ski glove (new), in front of Knight's of Columbus Hall. Claim at Lost & Found in Adm. Biuld. 
REWARD FOR WATCH -BLUE AND GREEN BAND. CALL CAROLINE 6240. 


FOR RENT 
5-bdrm. completely furnished, close to campus, comfortable house for group of 5 or 6 for 1983 -64. Phone 288 -3942 after 6. 
Student housing -6-bdrm. house, fully carpeted, 2 baths, 2 kitchens w/loft. 232 -4057 or 272 -7767. 
ONE SPACE AVAILABLE FOR WOMAN IN N.D. APTS. $80 per mon· th. CALL Caroline 6240. 

Fa1rly open-m1nded roomate needec,' Third 1n 3 bdrm apt Castle Pt Apts lnfo.277·2657 
4 apts. for rem, same building, L.W.W, area Room for 12 student~. Unfurni~hed except stove and refrig. Affordable for a group of siUde~ts. Call616-445·2678. 
MALE ROOMMATE WANTED to snare 2 
bedroom apt 2nd floor of duplex 2 m11es 
lrom campus $67 50/month plus ulll1t1es 
Grad preferred 289·811 8 

WANTED 
need a riae to St louis on Friday, Jan, 28. Call Pat at 3508. 
I NEED A RIDE TO DETROIT THIS WEEKEND! JOE 1154 
Need ride to Chicago Friday Jan 28. Call Bob 8998. 

FOR SALE 
1979 Honda Prelude S1lver grey. racmg stnpes. red cloth mt A1r. automattJC AM· FM stereo/8 track Electnc-powered sun· roof 43.600 m1 exec cond $4975 or besl offer 233·3143. ext 282 aller 9 30 
CASSETTES. CASSF:TTES TDK SA·90 $2 70 each No hm1t Call 289·7640 
Typewriter for ~ale. Cid, Cond., $25 or bclit 
offer. Phone 3455. 

1978 GRAND LEMANS GOOD CON· DITION. $3000 or best offer. Call Bob 8998. 

PERSONA~£] 
SliM MEN St.ll\'ICt: PI:!::JECTS lnt'olnformation and ..tpplicatiom may be obtained by conlac...·ting Andrea Shappell at the Center for Soda! Concerns, 239-5293. .<\pplh:adon~ deadline: January 31. 
mardi gra~ i\ coming!! mardi gra~ j, ~.:"oming!! 
Fitness ~air· Sunday Jan. 30, 1983· 1:00-4:15p.m.· Angela Athletic Facility· Saint Mary's College· SPECIAL GUEST SPEAKER· Willye White· "MOTIVATION EVERYDAY LIFE" INFO: CENTERS, PRESENTATIONS, YOGA, AEROBICS, WEIGHT TRAIN· lNG, ETC. 
~he_ Water Polo Club will hold an important meeting tomght m the Caron Court of Lafortune at 7. Elections for new officers will take place and the award dinner will be discussed. 1 f there are any conflicts, call 6837. -The Observer 
Interhall volleyball captains have a meeting tomorrow in the ACC Auditoriun\. Women's captains will meet at 4 and men\ at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
Chuck Knox, head coach of the Buffalo Bills, resigned Tuesday, the National Footbal League team announced. Knox handed his resignation to club owner Ralph Wilson in Detroit after the two could not agree on an extension to his contract, which was to run through next season. "I appreciate very much the support of Ralph Wilson and the opportunity to coach the Bills these last five years," Knox said in a rrepared statement. "Chuck Knox did a remarkable job of building the Bills and we wish him success in the 
future," Wilson said. -AP 
GIRL SCOUT COOKIE SALE NORTH DINING HALL DINNER ... JANUARY 24 -27 

LOST: A set of keys with the number 3218 imprinted on them. Please call 31858! if found 
MARDI GRAS TALENT SHOW FEBRUARY 41N CHATAUQUA!!! STAINED GLASS ARTIST ACCEP· TING WORK ORDERS CALL2871831 
JUGGLER The Juggler is now accepting fiction, poetry, essays, photography, graphics, etc. for the Spring 1983 issue. Submissions should be turned in at the English Office, 309 O'Shag (Juggler mailboxj. 
MARDI GRAS IS COMING!!! Sign up no" in both dining halls. 
NEW YORK! CLEVELAND! BOSTON! CHICAGO! PHILADELPHIA! Tune to 88.9 FM Monday through Friday at 8PM for concerts by the nation's greatest or· chestras. This is the perfect study aid from WSND·FM ... in stereo! 
Any Saint MAry's students who miss· ed the Observer organizational reporters meeting on Thursday, it's not too late. Still interested In becoming the Ben Bradley of your time? Call 239-5303 or stop by the Notre Dame Observer office (third floor of LaFortune) and ask for MArgaret. The lime is now 
IIUY MARDI GRAS TICKETS..WIN A TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS!!! 
DANCE·.I\·THOI'o for MARDI GRAS Saturday, February 5-~sign up NOW 
When in Elkhart. do as the Elkhar· tians do. 
BOP tiLL YOU DROP!!! MARDI GRAS DANCE·A·THON SATURDAY. FEBRUAR~ #FEATURING CHARIOT 
MARDI GRAS TAI ENT SHOW FEBRUARY If 1-. liiAUTAUQUA1!! 
Writers needed: to Mlch Tech. Feb. 3-6. Call ex. 5430. 
LOST: ROOM AND MAIL KEYS OVER THE WEEKEND. INA CIRCULAR KEY CHAIN WITH THE NUMBER2181M· PRINTED ON THE SIDE OF BOTH KEYS 

• • • Giants 
continuedfrom page 8 

Notre Dame had rro problems with Cincinnati, though. All Irish grapplers won their matches with Bear cat opponents except John Krug, who was pinned by an ex­cellent foe. 
Phil Baty lifted his season totals to 23-3-1 with two wins, one by forfeit and the other a hard-fought 5·1 battle. 
Heavyweight Mike Golic won a narrow 3-0 decision over Wabash in a battle between two giants. Crolic now stands at 12-1. 
IRISH ITEMS -Next up for the 15-2 Irish is the National Catholic Tournament on Saturday in Milwaukee. . . Bruno looks for tough compeutwn from host school Marquette as well as from John Carroll and Seton Hall. There will be anywhere from 12 to 20 teams participating in the annual event. . . The Irish hope to get senior Doug Skinner back from ar­throscopic surgery within a week, but junior co-captain John Carnesale will have his injured arm in a cast for at least two more weeks . 
.................................................................................................el 
You Are Invited to Have "The Time of Your Life" at the Student Union Roller 
Skating Party 
at Rainbow R:oller Rink Friday, Jan. 28 7pm-11rpm 
ONLY $1 PER PERSON 
Bus will leave Main Circle (N D) at 7pm and will return at 11pm 

Sign up with Margaret· SU Office Second Floor LaFortune 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

SENIORS May 1983 is just months away, what next? CONSIDER an alternative 
A I year postgraduate experience stressing: service, simple living, and Christian community. HCAvolunteers are in sev.~ral American cities. 
For more information contact: Mary Ann RoemE~r, .239-7949 Center for SociClrl Concerns 
Applications are now auailable. Deadline for applicatiorrt Feb. 8, 1983 

Ihe~rver========================================== 



~~4()l~~===========================VV==ed=n=e=s=d=ay='=J=a=n=u=ar=y=2=6='=1=98=3===p=a=g=e=7


Berke Breathed 



Aspirin Man 
/l PLE.A rOR HELf' /l/.4165 OIJTf 

ASSIST/1/ICE. A~EN 'T YOLI GOIAIG To HELP 1HE1'1? 


The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
( FALSE AL.Alf'l? 
~~ 


QooJ<s. 
I 

~A, 
THERE ,.,.,rr eE A f'llfT_.I<E. ns ?! THE *""''f ONL'II 111. ~Ar.!$,1 ~ TJI/$ 4;d ,A c;; ~ ~IVEit&~d(~ QoiW'T Y4)1o4 THI411( 1/t.U /'$. • • 
I 



Campus 
•1 
:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Light as an Artistic Medium," Ruben Nunez, 232 Moreau Hall 

•4:20 
p.m. --Physics Colloquium, "Super Con­ducting Phase Transitions in Two Dimensions," Dr. Alan Kadin, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "DNA Nuclear Matrix Interactions," Dr. John Bodnar, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns Building 

•7 
and 9:30 p.m. -Film, "The Diary of Anne Frank," Engineering Auditorium, sponsored by Student Government and Center for Social Con­cerns, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "A Christian Perspective on the Nuclear Freeze," Molly Rush, Room 1 (Volunteer Services) Holy Cross Basement, SMC, Sponsored by Two Campus Freeze Coalition 

•8 
p.m. -WOW Lecture, "Women in Medicine in the 1980s," Kathryn Mettler, Carroll Hall 

•8:15 
p.m. -Contemporary Issues Lecture, "Just War Theory in the Church's Social Teaching," Dr. Charles Rice, 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 

•9 
p.m. '-'fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, Library Lounge 

•11 
p.m. -Captured Live, Squeeze, WSND-AM 64 


Observer note._____ 
Because of problems with Observer computer typesetting equipment, today's Classifieds section is incomplete. Omitted classifieds will be printed in tomorrow's Observer. Customers preferring refunds should present their customer number at our office on LaFortune's third floor. We regret any inconvenience. 
The Far Side 

.. 
ACROSS 1 Go cruising 5 Off the 
beam 

9 Deadfall 13 Height: pre!. 14 Rounded 15 Hemp 
product 16 Limerick, 
for one 17 Mimicking 18 Literary 
lioness 19 Oleo and jelly 21 Juarez 
favorite 23 -Khan 24 Affected 
by madness 25 Umbrella 28 Diamond­29 Palliate 33 Picnic 
favorite 36 "-on down the road" 37 English 
festival 38 Headgear 39 Arab 
acronym 41 -mater 42 Grizzly 44 Topping 
for 10 D 47 Waffle topping 49 Maiden name word 50 Personal servant 51 -Gras 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
53 Correspon· 
denceabbr. 54 Fruit pie 57 Dessert 61 Gumbo 62 Greek dia· 
lect: var. 64 Time 65 Persian 
money 66 Rancor 67 Karenina 68 Hull part 69 Being 70 Converge 
DOWN 1 Takes away 2 Cockeyed 3 Brain 
channel 4 Hot day 
favorite 5 Cuts off 6 Osaka sash 7 Breakfast 
favorite 8 Musical instrument 
9 Molasses 10 Brioche 11 Church 
projection 12 Legumes 14 Woman 20 Watchful 22 Actress 
Farrow 24 Unit of length 

25 Mops 
26 Tin Wood· man's por· trayer 
27 Goon­
28 "Where troubles melt like-" 
30 Revers 31 Stage 
whisper 32 Baking item 34 Cartogram 35 Opposing 
vote 
40 Invitation require· ments 
43 Holiday favorite 45 Linguist Mario 46 London 
suburb 48 Buddy 52 Della of 
song 53 Purplish 
brown 54 Stopper 55 Steinbeck 
character 56 Scottish 
hillside 57 Summon 58 The best 59 Magical 
character 60 Mild oath 63 Fleur·de·­
_&nior Bar 
GJ WednsdGys
equal 
DRAFT SPECIAL 


at Senior Bat doors open at 9:30 



Wednesday, January 26, 1983 -page 8 
S~orts 


Suspended for season 
Digger confirms Rowan transfer 
By CHRIS NEEDLES year when he's going to be at Penn games this season, averaging nine Sports Editor State next year. minutes per game. He was scoring "From my standpoint, I hate to an average of 3.2 points per game Notre Dame basketball coach see it happen," Phelps continued . as of last Saturday's game with
• 
Digger Phelps confirmed last night "Ronny's a great kid and I wish him Maryland. Last season, Rowan that sophomore guard Ron Rowan well. I understand his desire for ignited the Irish to a mid-season has been su~pended for the re­more playing time. But it's not fair surge, leading all scorers in five out mainder of the I982-83 season. to the other players on the team to of six games at Of'e point. He 
Phelps, in an exclusive interview give a lame duck player practice scored a career-high 19 points with the. observer late last night, time and playing time. against Seton Hall. said that he decided to suspend "But it's over, it's done with, and Phelps will hold his weekly press Rowan after the latter had ap­we're getting ready for UCLA." conference at noon today, and he is parantly initiated transfer pro­Rowan declined comment when expected to make publi.: Rowan's cedures with the Pennsylvania State reached by The Observer last night. departure from the program at that University, which is closer to his The 6-5 Rowan appeared in I2 time. home in Beaver Falls, Pa. 
"We talked about it over Christmas," said Phelps, "and I told him he'd be foolish to make a 
Irish wrestlers lose to 
decision about it before the end of the season. But we were informed that he contacted Penn State -­
Wabash in final bout 
through another person --about transferring, and we have received 
By JEFF BLUMB match ticked down. 
a letter from Penn State asking for 
Sports Writer Stamm escaped his opponent's
permission to speak with him. 

grasp for one point to cut it to 8-2.
"By contacting Penn State, it is 
The Little Giants were giant As the clock passed 20 seconds,
apparant to me he has made a deci­
killers last night in the ACC Pit as Stamm was once again taken to the
sion on the matter, and I had no 
Wabash edged Notre Dame in mat for two more points, and
choice but to suspend him for the 
wrestling, 20-19. Wabash had a major decision
rest of the season. I'm obviously 
The night was not a total loss, worth four points and a 20-19
upset about it, but there's no sense 
though, as the Irish rolled over the c:ome-from-behind victory. 
having a lame duck player suiting 
Bearcats of the University of Cin­"You're always disappointed
up in a Notre Dame uniform this 
cinnati 51-6 in the other half of the when you lose," said Notre Dame triangular meet. Coach Brother Joseph Bruno. "But It was the second consecutive now we have something to build meet that Notre Dame had lost to upon. Sometimes you need
Theismann gets second title shot 
Wabash. This time, however, it was something like this for people to a little closer than last year's 34-12 wake up and see that everything thumping. isn't hunky-dory. 
PASADENA--It was a hot, muggy day on campus. 

Leading Wabash 17-14 with two "Every guy made a few mistakes matches remaining, the Irish pitted tonight and they really cost us,"
Training camp was still a couple of weeks away, and their hopes on Louis Carnesale at we
Joe Theismann was at Notre Dame filming the half­
Skip Desjardin continued Bruno. "All needed time features that now appear on television during 
158 and Mark Stamm at 190. was one pin and we could have 
Sports Editor Emeritus 
Carnesale, who had won a 14-2 won. Still we had some bad breaks Halfway through the afternoon, Theismann and the Irish basketball games. 
superior decision over his Cincy and I can hardly wait to wrestle foe, needed an escape move worth them next year, if we do."
TV producer got on an elevator in the ACC -and the one point as time ran out to salvage One bright spot last night for the 
producer's heart skipped a beat. The metal doors of the elevator closed on a 4-4 tie with a tough Wabash op­Irish was the showing of freshman
League. In three seasons, he passed for over 6000 Theismann's hand. The right hand. The one in which 
ponent. 118 pounder Eric Crown. Besides
yards, and rushed for 1000 more. The Redskins ob­he holds footballs. 
Each team gained two points for beating a very strong Little Gianttained the rights to Theismann, and he secured the 
The doors opened up a gash in the side of his hand, starting job by 1978. the draw and the score stood at 19-17-8, Crown pinned his Cincinnati and blood spilled out on the floor. 
16 in favor of Notre Dame as opponent in only 21 seconds. He is
"Joe has a complete grasp of the game and an innate Later, despite the swelling and the throbbing, the 
Stamm stepped onto the mat for now 20-8-1 for the season.
ability for reading defenses and taking advantage of Washington Redskin's quarterback declined a doctor's 
the deciding match. The Irish need­Wins leader Mark Fisher con­
the opposition's weaknesses," Parseghian says. attention and joked with the producer. 
ed a draw or a win to salvage the tinued his winning ways with I1­Pass defense is the strong point of the Miami game­
"If I have a bad season, it's all your fault," he laugh­meet. A Wabash verdict by seven 3and 10-2 wins to up his record to
plan. Theismann is painfully aware of that. 
ed. points or less would have tied the 31-6. "Mark has trouble pinning
"If you look at the Miami drive through the Sunday, Theismann --hand mended and the best teams. guys," lamented a disappointed
playoffs, it was one in which --time and time again -­season of his career behind him --will lead his team Stamm took an early 2-0 lead in lBruno.
they capitalized on turnovers," he notes. Intercep­the crucial match, but soon fell "We sure could have used one
against the Miami Dolphins in Super Bowl XVII. tions, fumble recoveries --you name it. Turnovers "I'm afraid to pinch myself," he says. "When you behind as the result of a series of tonight."
have been a big thing for them. want something so badly for so long ... " His voice 
Wabash takedowns. The count"There's no doubt about it, the Dolphins are a great See GIANTS, page 6 trails off, and he doesn't finish the sentence. But he grew to 8-1 as the last minute of the
defensive football team. We're just going to do doesn't have to. 
whatever we have to do to win." 
"I think Riggins and Theismann and the older players have a better grasp of what is at stake than the younger players," says Redskin Coach Joe Gibbs. "If 

UCLA tops in AP
Beginning today with Skip Desjardin's report 
you are young, you have a tendency to say there is from Pasadena, Calif., The Observer takes Horace 

always another year. But older players realize that a Greeley's advice to heart and flies to the West 

ehance like this doesn't happen very often." 

listing for second week 
Coast to provide full coverage of this weekend's 
Count Theismann among those. 
snorting events: 
"The emotional hype and the intensity in 

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 75-60, and fell from fourth place to Washington last week were incredible," Theismann 
•Thursday, Mary DiStanislao's Irish women em­
12th. Houston, meanwhile, says. "But the players are keeping everything in bark on their first-ever trip to the Coast, beginning 
UCLA is still No. 1, undefeated parlayed its victory over the Razor­perspective. We finally have an opportunity to prove with a game in Tempe, Ariz., against No. I2 
Nevada-Las Vegas inched closer to backs to climb from 14th to No.9. ourselves as a team and to gain some respectability. 
Arizona State. 

the top and Arkansas tumbled eight Fourth-ranked Nevada-Las•Also in Tempe, former Notre Dame footballThat's what's on the minds of all our players this spots in The Associated Press col­Vegas remained the only unbeatencoach Dan Devine has found a home as presidentweek." 
lege basketball poll released yester­NCAA Division I school as of lastof ASU's booster club, the Sun Angels Founda­Football, the cliche says, is a game of inches. But it day. night's game with California-Santation. Our two-is also a game of ironies. 
UCLA, 13-1, held the top spot Barbara. The 16-0 Runnin' Rebels, Count Theismann among those as well. 
part feature on Devine will appear next week. 

for the second consecutive week by who moved up one spot, got one•Friday's Observer will feature the final in­As the 1970's began, he led Notre Dame to the up­
getting 28 first-place votes and a first-place vote and 974 points. per echelons of the college football polls. In his senior stallment of Desjardin's week-long series preview­
total of 1, 146 points in a nation­Memphis State, 14-1, also got year, he set Irish passing records that still stand --in­ing Super Bowl XVII wide poll of 60 sports writers and one first-place vote and moved up•Sunday's Super Bowl appetizer will cluding an incredible 520-yard performance against sportscasters. The Bruins, who one place to fifth with 906 points.
be a classic rematch: an underdog Notre Dame five 
usc. 

will face Notre Dame at Pauley Virginia, 15-2, advanced a notch totries to continue its "giant killer" tradition as it"Joe was one of the top quarterbacks that I ever had Pavilion on Saturday, are the fifth sixth while 17-1 St. John's also ad­takes on No. I UCLA at Pauley Pavilion.
the pleasure of coaching," says former Notre Dame 

No. 1 team named this season. The vanced a spot to No. 7. head coach Ara Parseghian. "And I was blessed with 
•Down the freeway an hour will be the Super Bowl. 
others were Virginia, Kentucky, In­Also moving up one place were some great ones." 
We'll be at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena to cover the 
diana and Memphis State. No. 8 Louisville, 13-2, and No. 10 . • fter a run at the Heisman Trophy --which he lost 
Redskins and Dolphins . 

Indiana remained second and Kentucky, 13-3. to Stanford quarterback Jim Plunkett, the winning 
North Carolina stayed No. 3 this The Second Ten this week con­quarterback in the 1981 Super Bowl--Theismann was •We'll wrap up the weekend with another report 
week. Indiana, 14-1, got 25 first­sists of Villanova, Arkansas,picked up in the fourth round of the NFL draft. 
from Pauley on another Irish-Bruin basketball 
place votes for a total of I, 135, Missouri, Iowa, Georgetown, Min­That's where the irony comes in. He was drafted by match up, this one of the female variety, as Notre 
while North Carolina, 15-3, receiv­nesota, Illinois State, Syracuse,the Miami Dolphins. 
Dame and No. 15 UCLA square off Sunday night. 
ed 1 ,024 points and five first-place Wake Forest and Oklahoma But Theismann, perhaps wisely, figured he had lit­In all, it promises to be an action-packed 
votes. State. Illinois State, 14-I, and tle chance of beating out Bob Griese, and he signed in­weekend on the West Coast. And The Observer 
Arkansas, which won its first 15 Wake Forest, 13-2, were not rank­stead with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian will be there to bring it all back home to you. 
games this season, lost to Houston, ed last week. 



