
,Keenan Revue -page 6 


VOL. XVII, NO. 80 the.: indqx-mknt 'tudc.:nt llC.:\\ 'paplT 'crYing notre Jamc.: and ~aint mary·~ MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1983 
Scheduling . 
Nuclear coalition debates freeze 
By CATHY PAX thereby preventing volunteers tions will request that the issues be working on both issues, and the presented to the voter on separate
Siaff Repor/er 
rpossibili~ of radical prejudice ballots. 

The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's gruwin" ff the traditionally conser­An ensuing involved the merits Nuclear Freeze Coalition organized vative N~tre Dame/Saint Mary's of proposing a unilateral freeze, in which ~the United States would
its campaign for a unilateral freeze students are'forced to consider both referendum last night amid discus­issues at on.::e, as reasons for the freeze nuclear arms production freeze vote postp<\nement. regardless of the Soviet Union's
sion and dissension. actions, rather than the proposal of
Kevin Walsh, president of CILA, After length' discussion of voter 
the more commonly accepted bilat­

interrupted the organizational psychology ana the merits of sepa­
eral freeze opinion. Most of the

meeting with a plea that the rate or collective ba!bts, the group 
Coalition agreed that a bilateral

Nuclear Freeze Coalition postpone voted to continue the tampaign.and 
as freeze would be much easier to pass

voting on their issue until March 2 keep the proposed voiivij dat~ on the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's
justead of Feb. 8, when it had been scheduled. The FLOC anJ Freeze campuses.
previously scheduled. Coalition organizations then vo\\-ed 
Walsh was concerned that the to support each other's issues Cilnd Chris Beam, coordinator of the freeze referendum's presence on the not to let the former dissension freeze movement, said, "A bilateral ballot would harm the Farm Labor between them weaken their causes. freeze has a pretty good chance of Organization Committee (FLOC) They also decided not to link winning, as for a unilateral freeze, referendum's chance of passing. He their causes publicly in order to I think it is possible." e.x.pressed the belief that the FLOC prevent a radical prejudice from The coalition is somewhat optim­retert;ndum has an excellent chance spreading through the campuses. istic because they were successful of pa~sing; but if the Freeze Coali­Both organizations expressed a in obtaining the signatures required tion referendum is decided at the hope that voters will decide the to place a referendum on the ballot. same time, both of referenda will issue separately and not vote They collected the 1200 Notre fail. according to their past political Dame student signatures and 300 
WalSh cited the harmful effects leanings. Saint Mary's (15 percent) in only of <ii\>i'dir1g the liberal forces, The leaders of both organiza-one hour by asking students as they entered the dining halls. Beem also emphasized the group's goal of educating the
Right to Lite chapter 
student body rather than simply winning the election. Beem informed the volunteers


remembers-Roe v. Wade 
that nothing politically binding 

at.itor's Note: The following is restricting the consequences of the would result even if the referendum fue fillf of a two-part series dealing Roe v. Wade decision. One such was passed. It would only serve as 1with th\: tenth anniversary of the piece of legislation is the Human­a symbol. "There is nothing direct 
Supreme. Court's Roe v. Wade life Bill sponsored by Senator Jesse but there are profound implica­decision tegalizing abortion. The Helms which would give all tions," said Beem. secoll..,d parrwi/1 appear Tuesday. persons 
See FREEZE, page 4 

including the unborn, equal protection under the law. Charles Rice, a Notre Dame law By MARK BOENNINGHAUSENprofessor ~nd a local abortion l~w expert, thmks that the Humanhfe 


Students, faculty proudof library
S!af/ Repor!er Bill has the best chance of passing, because it requires only a simple what we need to have a good distractions, while upholstered
By VIC SCIULLI 

majority instead of a Constitu­library-for the present as well as the chairs and couches can be used for 
Assistanl News Edilor

The Notre Dame 1\i_ght to Life tional amendment which would future, said Library Director Sister more relaxed studying. chapter is active in efforts to limit require a three-fourths majority. Bernice Hollenhorst. "It is mOre Bank flourescent lighting has been 
the effects of the famous Roe v. Passing legislation to restrict or than utilitarian-it is aesthetically replaced by task lighting units in 
The honeymoon isn't over yet.

Wade Supreme Court decision. com­as The Each carrel is equiped
eliminate abortion has been pleasing well. many areas. 
One semester after its opening,

The decision, which legalized 
plicated, according to Rice, by the administration should be with a lamp, located under a 
students and staff are stilll very

abortion on demand for the first commended." "disguised" hood. 
Reagan Administration's failure to 

trimester of pregnancy, is at the pleased with the new Cushwa-.
bad< or even address any pro-!ife Hollenhorst cited numerous assets A 24-hour study room is located 
Leighton Library, citing the

center of the pro-life lobby. -legislation. of ~he new building: The new in the library's lower level. A tunnel Last Saturday, the tenth anniver­building's spaciousness and library accomodate connects the room to LeMans Hall
The crux of the pro-life position can more 
collection accessibility as major

sary of the decision, the Not~ terminals
is the definition of the fetus as a volumes and periodicals than the Two computer are 
reasons.

Dame Right to Life chapter old library. This has allowed for avaailable in an adjacent room. 
See DECISION, page 3 The College has provided us with

chartered a bus with groups from the centralization of the library's Vending machines also are Valparaiso and Lake County to collections. avai-lable. attend the annual abortion protest Before Cushwa-Leighton, there Five group study rooms, a typing 
march in Washington, D.C. The were about 20,000 volumes in room and faculty research rooms march has attracted crowds estima­storage in Regina Hall. Students are located throughout the library's ted as high as 100,000 in past years. who needed these books often had upper levels. 
John May, legislative chairman 
to wait a day and finding them took Reference Librarian Robert of the Notre Dame Right to Life Hohl shares Hollenhorst's
up staff time. Said Hollenhorst, chapter and organizer of the bus enthusiasm.
"It's nice to see everything on the trip, said that 30 students from the shelves." "Reaction has been very Notre Dame/Saint Mary's The library also features a positive," he said. "We are very community went on the trip. number of special rooms. The proud of this building." The cost was $50, and there was media center, located in the lower Both Hollenhorst and Hohl have a waiting list. level, houses audio-visual noticed that a large number of "I am really impressed by the de­equipment. parents visit the library with their dication and support on campus," 
A well designed and furnished daughters. May said. staff lounge offers employees a "The students really seem to have 
The Right to Life group comfortable place to relax and have made this their library," delivered over 800 postcards to lunch. Hollenhorst said. senators, asking support for the The Rare Books Room Many students agree with Hohl 
pro-life position. The postcards contributes to the centralization of and Hollenhorst. Sophomore were signed and collected in the the library's collection; the old Rare business major Kathy Macken dining halls the week prior to the Books Room was located in Regina appreciates the library's relaxed group's departure. Hall, separate from the old library. atmosphere and the different places 
May said that there are over 350 A special system maintains the to study. The upholstered chairs students on the Notre Dame constant temperature and humidity located throughout the library are chapter's mailing list and the group needed to preserve the books. favorite places to study. has a core of about 25 students, A variety of seating A number of students 
though "big events" draw more arrangements is located commented on the rocking chairs, interest. throughout the library. Enclosed located in front of the many large Attention focussed on lobbying carrels accomodate students who windows in the library also are 
in an effort to pass legislation need to concentrate without favorite studying places. 







1NewsBrie!J 
Hy 7he Obsen•er anti The Associated Press 
Karma lbsen-Riley, a playwright and actress, opened Saint Mary's sixth annual Women's Opportunity Week (WOW) last night, presenting her highly-acclaimed three-act play Nine Women. The drama portrayed Ibsen-Riley in nine separate female roles and featured on-stage make-up and costume changes. WOW will continue tonight with a talk by the wife of former Iranian hostage Moorhead Kennedy. Louisa Kennedy will speak in Saint Mary's Carroll Hall at 8. -The Observer 
Fearing chunks of a radioactive Soviet spy satellite would crash there, Oman's government proclaimed a "red alert" yesterday and warned citizens to stay indoors. And in Britain, Ladbroke's bookmakers gave 100-1 odds against the satellite striking there. But the Oman alert was lifted and the British who risked the long odds lost when the satellite re-entered the earth's atmosphere over the Indian Ocean. Before the re-entry, authorities throughout the world scanned the skies for the crippled satellite, even though the Soviets had saicl Cosmos 1402 posed no threat. At the Royal Greenwich Observatory in Britain, scientists reported seeing the satellite for about a minute as it flashed over southern England. Max White, spokesman for the observatory 50 miles southeast of London, said the satellite was in one piece when it appeared at 5:24 p.m. -12:24 EST. "it was like a bright, fast­moving star," he said. "We saw no burning-up occuring." The satellite crossed the sky from the southwest to the northeast at a height of 95.6 miles, White said.-AP 
Leading OPEC members urged the 13-nation cartel yesterday to scrap its month-old plan for supporting oil prices and take more drastic action to prevent a price crash. If the members cannot agree on a sharing production, the continuing glut might force the first official price cut in the cartel's 22-year­history. That could push down energy prices around the world because non-OPEC prices usually follow the trend. "It's a whole new ball game," Allirio Parra, a Venezuelan advisor, said during a break in the closed-door emergency meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Geneva, Switzerland. Parra and other OPEC ministers said December's Vienna agreement to produce no more than 18.5 million barrels a day was too weak to eliminate the oil glut. The excess oil is weakening OPEC's grip on controling prices. Kuwait oil minister AliKhalifa Al-Sabah said the cartel was considering a lower ceiling, perhaps 17.5 million barrels a day, in anticipation of a further drop in oil demand. He said little was accomplished in the opening session, but talks would probably continue at least through today. -AP 
A leading West German conservative went against his political allies yesterday saying the West must compromise with the Soviets to get them to dismantle any of their nuclear missiles aimed at Western Europe. Franz· Joseph Strauss,· the Bavarian state governor, said the American-backed "zero option" plan is "unattainable and absurd." The U.S. plan is being pushed at the Geneva arms talks which reconvene Thursday. "The Soviet Union is not considering accepting a zero-solution in the Western sense of the word," Strauss said in an interview with West German radio. "It is out of the question that the Soviets are ready to destroy their armaments in the necessary mass. What is attainable... is a decrease on the Soviet side of their already stationed rockets ... so that the West can hold the extent of its rearmament in corres­ponding narrow limits," Strauss said. His remarks joined the chorus of West German voices advocating compromise on the missile question and left conservative Chancellor Helmut Kohl looking more isolated in his defense of the U .S.-proposed zero option. -AP 
Defense Minister Ariel Sharon, angry at what 
he called U.S. interference in talks with Lebanon, warned yesterday that without an American change the Israelis would "consider other ways" of obtaining a security agreement with their occupied neighbor. Sharon's remarks, reported by Israel radio, came at a weekly cabinet session as U.S. special envoy Philip C. Habib returned to Israel after whirlwind weekend talks in Lebanon, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia. He met with Prime Minister Menachem Begin, Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir and Sharon for 90 minutes, then told reporters that he was returning to Washington. He did not elaborate on his discussions. Israel radio quoted Sharon as saying at the Cabinet session that the United States was pressuring Lebanon to reject Israeli proposals on security arrangements and mutual relations. Israel insists on manning three electronic surveillance stations in the Lebanese central mountains as a condition to withdraw its 25,000-man occupation army simultaneously with a Syrian pull-out from Lebanon. -AP 
Cloudy with a chance of snow flurries by 
afternoon. High in mid 30s. A chance of evening flurries, otherwise mostly cloudy and continued mild. Lows in the upper 20s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow with a few snow flurries. Highs in the low 30s. -AP 
Monday, January 24, 1983-page 2 
''The Church and birth control'' 
IF we had no previous impressions of the Catholic church, we'd wonder how such a church could exist when 80 percent of its American members do not observe one of its most famous social teachings. 
Religions are not supposed to work that way. But then again, no one ever said Catholic social teaching was democratic. 
In 1963, 42 percent of American Catholics accepted two of the three teachings on birth control, divorce, and premarital sex. Eleven years later (five after Pope Paul VI's encyclical on birth control), the percentage dropped to 18. 
The Church, of course, does not live and die accoring to public opinion polls. Yet, it is interesting that a study prepared by sociologist Andrew Greeley 
. asserts "the change (of Catholics) in birth control thinking is clearly the most important factor at work in the decline of Catholic devotion, which the study cites in embarrassing detail 
"The disaster for American Catholicism," Greeley 
writes elsewhere, "was the result of a single decision 
made because of the decrepit and archaic institutional 
structure of the Church, a structure in which effective 
upward communication practically does not exist." 
Hyperbole aside, Greeley is saying that perhaps 
Pope Paul wasn't listening to those he leads when he 
issued Humane Vitae in July 1968. The pope had on 
his desk the majority and minority opinions of a 
special papal task force commissioned by his prede­
cessor John XXIII. The majority suggested a change 
in the traditional teaching that artificial contraception 
is unacceptable under any circumstance. yet Paul 
aligned with the minority opinion that predicted an 
adverse impact on papal credibility if the teaching was 
changed, and thus reaffirmed the teachings of Pius XI 
and XII before him. 

The question of birth control undoubtedly has an . ecclesiological component. In fact, the first argument 
Today F'ather Hesburgh is: ? 
See page 5 

The Observer 
REVUE WEEK 

Design Editor: .... J.P.-"The Sound of Muzak''-Keyes Design Assistants: ..... Brigeue (Hair) Pete (Pulley o11the Roof) Layout Staff: ..... South Pacific Tony News Editor: ...... Dave (Music Man) Copy Editor: ... Kath (Our Fair Lady) Feature' Layoul: ...... Sarah and Joe (Pirates ofPenzancej Sports Copy Editor: .. Ed (Candy Man) Editorials Layout: .... Libby (Mamed) Typists: .......... Libby, Ted, Mike (Chorus Line) ND Day Editor: ..... Oklahoma Mike Ad Design: ......... Mary (Westside( Photographers: ..... Sco/1, Diana, Ed (Cats) Guest Appearances: . Ja-za. Tim's voice Cousin Lisa, Claire's voice, Jebbie, not Dennis 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Ft~day and on home football Saturdays except du<~ng exam and vacation peflods The Observer •s published by the students of Notre Da<ne and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons <nay be purchased for $25 per year IS t 5 per se<nester) by writing The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
Second class postage pdid at Notre 
Dame lnd1ana 46556 

SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 11 -20, 1983 
A rranrf!m~ntJ b,., 
ECHO TRA YEL,/NC. 
MCI$257/F 
SIX PER ROOM TRIP INCLUDES 
• Round 1np molorccoach 1ran1portalion V>-1 modemhis.hway coaches10 DaY! on& Beach, Ronda lt.aVlng Fnd.ay, Mal't'h II. 
• Seven n1Jhl5 accommoda110n1 a11hc exciting Plaza Hotd of

$185 
Daytona Beach Located at600 Nonh Atlanuc Ave .• n iJ the most demanded hotel on the 1trip at tklt time 
• A truly great ~chcdule of acuv111es mcludtna our famo\15 pool deck parties and belly flop contest. 
FOUR PER ROOM • Optmnal u.cursmnt available to Disney World, Epcot,lnd Kvenal other attract tons 
• 
Sumerous bar and restaurant d1scounu. 

• 
The ~rvu;es of full ume travel represcntattves



$199 
• 
Allta~6 and gratuutes 


• 
Guaranteed kiteheneue or oceanfront ava1lable at small addittonal chaq~e. (4 per rodm only) 


A QUALITY TRIP-A LOWPRICE-A GREATTIME 
!"he Plaia HOld. Inca teo nght in the middle ofthe atnp. is dcftnucfy the place to be: durins 'pnntt break A~k anyone ~ho ha' been to Daytona The hotel has a pool. btl p.srty deck, rc,taurant. four bars, color TV. 11r condtlloned rooms and plenty of acuvities. Ptcturcs are a\atlahle v. here you ~tgn up Our motorcoachu are nothmg butthe htshest quality htJhway ~•Iache~ We al~o g1ve ~ou mure extras wuh our trtp than anyone else Don't blow it and ao on <1 IClllrer 4uaht} tnp LA~IT 'lEAR OVER 6,000 PEOPLE ENJOYED THIS TRIP. 
SIGN t;p NOW AT THE . TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE 
MON.-FRI. 10 AM-4 PM 
OR CALL 239-5213 
Bob Vonderheide 
News Editor 
Inside Monday 

of the papal commissiOn minority report is the "constant and perennial" teaching of the Church. Anti-birth control teachings can be traced at least as far as Trent, and "if the Church could err, the auth­ority of the ordinary magisterium would be thrown into question." Because the Holy Spirit guides the Church in its teachings, there can be no fundamental error. Although Humane Vitae does not deal with this argument explicitly, Pope Paul does write that the Church "is not an arbiter, but a guardian and inter­preter," and that birth control is a violation of "the law of God himself." 
On the other hand, the majority opinion recognized the evolutionary character of Church teaching, if not taking odds against "the law of God." The Church is dynamic, not static. Objective teachings and standards only have meaning in light of historical perspectives that are constantly changing. 1870 is not 1962. Leo XIII is not Vatican II. Even before Humane Vitae, the Church had begun to challenge the "impersonalism, legalism, and minimalism of the traditional act-oriented method of moral analysis," according to Notre Dame theologian Richard McBrien. 
Thus the majority of the papal commission on birth control said it was time the Church recognized the "signs of the times" of an age of increasing population and changing women's roles. Birth control cannot be seen as always egocentric and hedonistic. And if the Church is not open to change, we would still be falling asleep in numbing Latin liturgies. The teaching on birth control, then, cannot -is not -set in stone. A change would no more undermine the authority of the Church than it would cause the basilica's walls to crumble down. 
But the change cannot be subjectively self-serving. As conservative Michael Novak has written, it seems these days you can believe anything and find a "swinging theologian" to back you up. But once the Church learns the lesson that Vatican II taught -that change is not only necessarily but traditionally Catholic-social teachings will continue to drop in the public opinion polls. Birth control is the classic example. Only when the papal magisterium honestly admits the possibility of changing the teaching can there be a productive debate on moral component of the issue. And only in an ecclesiological context will any such debate make sense. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 
1'he Observer Monday, January 24, 1983 -page 3 

Saint Mary's hires security consultant 
By ANNE MONASTYRSKI 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Saint Mary's has hired a profess­ional security consultant to -investi­gate its security system, according to Vice President of Student Affairs Elaine Hocter. 
After evaluating Saint Mary's security system, the consultant will make recommendations for im­provements. 
"The administration is concerned about security," Hocter said at last 
night's  Saint  Mary's  Board  of  
Governance meeting.  - 
She  suggested  that  lights  be  

added in poorly lit campus areas such as the stretch from library to the dining hall. "The glow of lights are pretty,-" Hocter said about the light posts in that area, but, she added, "stronger lighting would really help." 
Because of "political reasons anci all the people that work in LeMans," Hocter said changing student parking to the LeMans parking lot and administrative and faculty parking to the McCandless lot is out of the question. Parking in the LeMans lot on a "first-come, first-serve basis" would be impossible Hocter said. 
Students should take advantage of services already being provided by security, such as the escort service to and from the parking lots, she suggested. 
Photographer Neil King, who opened a studio in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community recently, was guest speaker at the 
... Decision 
continuedfrom page 1 
person. In the Roe v. Wade deci­sion, the primary reason for allowing abortion was the Supreme Court's refusal to define a fetus as a person, denying the protection of the 14th amendment other rights guaranteed by the Constitution. 
Rice compared this position to Nazi use of the word non-person to refer to the Jews during World War 
II. He added that there have been "incidental regulations" passed by Congress including restrictions on federal funding for abortion and "conscious provisions," but so far the Reagan Administration has giv­en nothing but "lip service" to the issue. 


-ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
The Air Force announces a new program that pays Engineering students $1,000 a month for up to 12 months during their senior yearpf school. 
To qualify, you must be a United States citizen, meet all mental, moral, and physical requirements of an officer training candidate, and be majoring in an accredited engineering program in one of the following areas: 
CIVIL MECHANICAL AERONAUTICAL INDUSTRIAL ELECTRICAL NUCLEAR ASTRONAUTICAL 
For more information call: 
TSgt. Marty Lazar 219-236-8205 COLLECT 

AIM HIGH...BE AN AIR FORCE ENGINEER 

meeting. His new studio, "The Picture man," will take candid shots at parties, dances and other activities at no cost or obligation to buy. Within a week, the proofs will be displayed for students to select those they wish to purchase. 
The student exchange with Toronto is scheduled for Feb. 24-27. The Toronto exchange is open ro all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
The cost is $45 per student with a $25 deposit. Students may sign up beginning jan. 25 at the Student Government office in LaFortune. 
Toronto students will be at Notre Dame from Feb. 3-6. 
Little Sisters Weekend, begin­ning April 15, will be a coordinated event with Notre Dame this year. McCandless Hall President Michele Manion was appointed chairperson for the event. 

ujoy~i«g~? 
Vo. youeike to. be wifk ~? v~boJt &e J(W. P~ V~iWficm "PJtog'UUtt at St. 9Mepk ~CeuWt 
w££ eltit a2 4 2 ~ 9rut 29 



ATTENTION 
................................................................................................. 
H.D. f.L.O.C. Support Committee 
First i~!ormational and organizational meeting Re: CampbClll•s Boycott RClfClrClndum Monday, Jan. 24 Hayes-Healy Aud. 8:00pm 
All students, faculty, &staff (including newcomers) are welcome! 
Support thCl Migran_t FarmworkClrs! 
IHttllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllltllllll 


Plan now to attend the 
MARDI ,,'(),, CiRfiS TALEfiT 


SHOW 

February 4 in Chautaqua 


•.. Watch thCl ObsClrvClr for morel dCltails •.• 

Mardi Gras Dance Marathon 
sign -up continues this week in both dining halls. 
Buy tickets to sponsor your friends-­
The Dance-a-thon will feature 
CHARIOT 

from Chicago 9 pm-midnight. 


-------------·-·------------­
The Observer 

r 
! 
Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker of Tennessee announced Friday he will not seek a fourth term in 1984,freeing himself for a possible presidential candidacy in 1988. (AP) 
Monday, January 24, 1983-page 4 
Eight week experience 
Sum.m.er service projects aid poor 
By PATSAIN 
StaffReporter 
This summer over 35 students 

will spend eight weeks in some of 
the poorest areas of the country 
working on summer service 
projects. A summer service project, "is an eight-week experience work­ing with poor people or with agencies concerned about the poor," according to Andrea Shappell, coordinator of the pro­gram. 
Notre Dame Alumni Clubs give Social Concerns Scholarships, each for $1100, to these students in their area working on these service projects. 
Shappell said, "Alumni Club re­presentatives meet with students working on projects in their area every two weeks. These meetings not only offer support to the stud­ents, but also serve to educate the alumni about the problems of their area poor. 
Some alumni clubs support parti­cular projects. An example, Shappell said, is the Pittsburgh Alumni Club, which is concerned with the Pittsburgh CYO (Catholic Youth Organization). 
Kevin Hayes, a senior who work­ed for the Pittsburgh CYO on a summer service project last summer, said, "It enabled me to take academic ideals concerning social justice and find a personal and concrete focus for them." 
Hayes also noted the different 

ERE ARE JUST A FEW OF THE NAME BRANDS OF MERCHANDISE THAT MUST BE SOLD DURING THIS FINAL SALE! Don't miss OU 
adidas~... Wii&on (,]~t.).t~ lOconveR~~: FH•>I








lTII ~aJ;;~;G PUinn 
Athletic Footwear 
~""""~~-... _......_....,....._ over 1000 pr. in stock 
Q~~~~~ijitTennis· 
Now $1.49 pr. or 3 pr for $4.00 



PCNY~~ 
Values from $1.50 • $2.50 NOW ONLY ggo and up! IZOD Sport Socks 
worries of the poor. "We worry about whether we have gas in the car or whether to cut the grass instead of playing golf. They worry about how they will get food on the table, and where it will come from." 
Senior Warren Wright said, "I worked with community, church, and school leaders to establish the Southeast Baltimore Committee to Save Our Kids, which is devoted to stopping juvenile male prostitu­tions." Wright said he worked with community leaders and the police department to help establish such programs as block watch, citi­zen patrol, and court monitor. 
"These organizations," Wright stated, "help limit prostitution by helping police arrest men and boys engaging in prostitution and exert­
ing  pressure  on  judges  to  hand  
down on stiffer sentences."  
"Overall,"  Wright  said,  "my  

dealings with people taught me much about others and myself. I saw that people need to feel important if they are going to de­
vote themselves to a cause. Many 
people will not get involved with 
a cause unless it affects their well­
being." 
Senior Patty Fox, who worked at Saint Joseph's House of Hospita­lity in Rochester, New York, said, "Anyone can get a free meal at Saint Joe's with no questions asked. My job centered on helping to prepare, serve, and clean up after the daily lunch." 
The challenge on crowded days, Fox said, was to treat our guests as guests -to allow them enough time and space to eat in a "relaxed and dignified manner." "Our guests were primarily street 
alcoholics, who are unemployable and have no place to stay. Most receive government, but these are usually spent on cheap wine or lost through robberies," added Fox. 
"I discovered that these people have a value as they are. I formed friendships that I will not forget. They all have a unique character 
and  dignity  that  they  maintain  
against  the  cruel  odds  of  street  
life," said Fox.  

For those interested in knowing more about summer service pro­jects, there is an informational meeting tonight from 7-8 p.m. m the Library Lounge. 
... Freeze 
continuedfrom page I 

Volunteers were advised of the reasons for a unilateral freezed so that they could inform fellow students. Most of the Coalition's philosophy is derived from 
Jonathan Schell's book, The Fate of the Earth. Schell argues that nations must abandon their obses­sion with national self-interest and instead act out of concern for humanity as a whole. 
The meeting then progressed to its original purpose and began to organize the volunteers into the campaign effort. 
The Coalition is planning a dorm walk-through, Mon., Jan. 31, with its members campaigning door-to­door, to pubiic,ze the cause among students. 



WSNDFffi 88.9 
If you enjoy classical music, tune to 88.9 FM, weekdays from 7:00 to 9:00A.M. for DAYBREAK, featuring light and lively classical works, and news and weather to keep you informed. 
WS~ D Fffi • Fine Arts Btoadcasting fot ffiichiana • 88.9 Steteo 

~~RlJ~ [jR~S S~~~ S~UJl~lfUJ~[t L[]~TE~T 
Jf1r.i. 2'ii-3GJ 
Sketches of sculptures should be handed in to the Student Activities Office by Jan. 27. 
(Extended Deadline) 
ELULPTUREE l\l~LL BE JUUIJE[) []~ THEI':1E ~~[) []R~IJ~~~L~TY 
Winning sculptors will be awarded OJ SERVICES fc)r their hall's next party. 

--~ ----------~---------.. 



Editorials 
Monday, January 24, 1983 -page 5 
A much-needed solution 
The Social Security system is in trouble. Nearly everyone agrees with this fact. The figures paint a bleak picture: if nothing is done, Social Security will go bankrupt in July and lose $1.6 trillion over the next 75 years. It is clear that something must be done now to divert this impending national disaster. 
Tom Mowle Current Line 
A year ago, President Reagan appointed a 15-member committee to study the Social Security problem and propose a solution. They have done so; both Reagan and Speaker of the House O'Neill approved it. But when the time comes to debate the proposal, all sides are certain to raise objections to individual points. Standing on its own, each point could be argued against, but the plan as a whole is good. If implemented, it would achieve its goal of putting Social Security in the black through 2057, without hurting any single group of people to a great degree. 
These are the committee's proposal's: To delay the July five percent cost-of-living increase until the end of the year;to accelerate the planned increase in payroll taxes; to tax the self-employed at the full rate; to tax some of the benefits of higher­income persons; and to include new federal employees and non-profit organizations in the system. 
These proposals are a widely accepted compromise solution io the problem. Taken together. thev are not "unfair" to nnv C'rnnr of people. While the delay in benefits will be harmful to the poor, the benefit taxes /will only affect the comparatively well-off, individuals who make over $20,000 a year or couples who make over $25,000. If that sounds like a small income, remember that such persons have no dependents and very often own their own houses. The self­employed will get an income tax credit to offset their higher Social Security payments. 
The Social Security system's difficulties lie in the decreasing number of workers as compared to the number of retirees. In 1960, nearly 5 workers supported each retiree; now, only 3.2 do. This is due, in part, to the decreased birthrate in the sixties after the baby boom. Another cause is today's extended life expectancies. The committee's long-range solution is to raise the retirement age w 66 for those born in 1949 or later and to begin to increase bonuses for those who delay . their retirement. 
All of these proposals are neccessary to preserve the Social Security program, which, for all its flaws, is the only protection we give our elderly. If any individual point of the proposal! seems unfair-and the proposal should be taken as a whole, not point-by­point-I would ask: Would it not be even more unfair to end the system completely, or, since that will not be allowed to happen, to borrow more and more money to keep it ~olvent, thus raising deficits and interest rates, and perhaps institutionalizing the present recession? Whatever argument is made against it, this proposal is the best solution we will be able to get for the Social Security problem. 
P.O. BoxQ
Where is Father Hesburgh? 
"Where is Father Hesburgh?" 
tion which is promoting competitiveness This is the question often on the minds of Notre Dame students and 
on campus is content with being a quitter.
Hockey quit on 
It may be hockey this year, but which sport 
faculty. The answer, however, is often elusive. Last week, The Observer 
will be quit on next?
began a daily feature entitled, "Today Father Hesburgh is: ... " 
Dear Edilor: Pal Fleming 
It was our hope that the travels of our internationally reknowned 
In the recent crisis concerning the status Slanford Hall president could be succinctly presented to our readers, especially since his 
of the varsity hockey team, certain 
questions about the true character of the
activities are so often newsworthy, and reported by all major newspapers. 
athletic department should be on the minds 
The feature did not seem earth shaking. Anyone wishing to know 
of anybody who has ever had an interest 

College prank 
in Notre Dame athletics. Certainly the objective of athletic 
Hesburgh's whereabouts need only to have turned to page 2. 
The two to three line statement benefitted Father Hesburgh as well, 
Dear Edilor: 
competition is to build character in the face 
considering that he usually goes to great lengths to let students and faculty 
of challenge. Wasn't that the point behind In response to the editorial of Kathy know which world leaders with whom he has met. 
Knute Rockne's "Win one for the Gipper" Neilon and Zaida Avila, Pres. and Vice speech in 1928? That was a day of victory Pres., of Farley Hall, I would like to
We were wrong. After only one week, our feature has caused a stir. The 
for college athletics since it proved that the comment on their unwarrented over­
Observer was informed Friday by Father Hesburgh's secretary that "the 
desirable qualities of determination and reaction to the theft of the "Pop Farley" president doesn't approve of the idea." When asked why Father Hesburgh 
self-sacrifice could produce success in the sign. While I'm sure that all of the members face of adversity. Many more examples of Farley hall were disappointed to see the
did not approve of the feature, the secretary offered no reason. could be brought forward, but the point sign gone on that Saturday morning, the
Father Hesburgh has been criticised for not being at Notre Dame often 
is that success is directly related to willing­stance taken by the two spokeswomen
enough. The much-circulated joke quoted on 60 Minutes is: "What is the 
ness to fry? The question is this: Just how of Farley will certainly not get the sign difference between God and Father Hesburgh? God is everywhere; Father 
hard has the athletic hierarchy tried to back, and will probably do more harm make hockey work and succeed? goodinthelongrun.
Hesburgh is everywhere but Notre Dame." 
Recent actions of the department would What these girls don't seem to under­
Surely Father Hesburgh trusts our readers to judge for themselves the 
lead one to believe that there is no serious stand is that the sign wasn't stolen to send validity of his travels including last week's stops in Vienna, Rome, and 
effort being made. Perhaps the evidence everyone at Farley to the brink of a nervous shows that the effort is to abolish the breakdown, although that seems to be the
California? 
program. A few facts that should be case. It was simply _your average college
Why has Father Hesburgh attempted to silence such an informative 
questioned include: Why did Fr. Joyce prank, designed to do no more 
feature by refusing to release his travel itinerary? 
harm than cause a slight players parents? Why did Gene Corrigan 
leave halfway through the meeting with the inconvenience to those it was 
try to sneak out the back door after the perpetrated upon. Lighten up, will parents' meeting? Why did Fr. Joyce ya? Dillon and Alumni are involved in this 
explicitly say that alumni could not be sort of activity constantly, and it is all approached for help on a national basis? taken in the spirit of one-ups-manship 


Social Concerns Film Series 
The Social Concerns Film Series begins its version of the Almanacs, popularized folk Why hasn't there been a serious effort for which it is intended. I'm sure a studentspring series tonight in the new Center fol' music during the early 1950s. Hayes and (except "Breakaway") to promote hockey in Dillon or Alumni wouldn't have reacted Social Concerns. The films will be shown Seeger dreamed of using the traditional either in the community or on campus? to the sign situation as though someonethis week and the week of February 14. melodies of the rural working class to While "Breakaway" didn't produce fantas­had stolen his first born.
Various topics, such as atomic warfare, achieve left-wing political ends. They wrote tic results, it did produce some. So why In drawing attention to the theft of themissionaries in El Salvador, and activism in "If I Had a Hammer" by passing a note pad was it discontinued after only one year? sign, the two girls have done just whatthe United States will be dealt with. The between each other at a political meeting. 
These open ended questions lead to the thieves wanted them to do: make a bigfilms have been chosen in order to bring a At the 1979 CaRNEGIE Hall reunion, the dubious conclusions about the intentions deal out of it. The thieves have receivedsocial awareness to the Notre Dame/Saint group reminisces and recalls their activist and efforts of the athletic department to the publicity they were looking for; inMary's community. 
days through their music. 

make hockey prosper at Notre Dame. fact, they're probably planning the next The Weavers's film will be shown tonight An even bigger problem, perhaps one prank on Farley right now, seeing howThe series opens tonight with a document­and tomorrown night at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in which hasn't been realized, is the question the first one produced the desired results. 
ary called Wasn't Thai a Time? It features the Center for Social Concerns (old WNDU of how this kind of action will affect other The Farley Hall Government has invitedthe reunion of an activist musical group building). Admission is $1. The Social sports. If hockey is abolished, the athletic another "attack" by getting so upset overcalled The Weavers at Carnegie Hall. The Concerns Film Series continues with select department is setting a precedent for being the first one. In the future, instead ofconcert marks the final public appearance of films such as Ruling Class (Jan. 26) starring content with quitting. It would seem that overreacting to the situation, use the old
The Weavers's cofounder, Lee Hayes, who Peter O'Toole, One Flew Over lhe Cuckoo's 
the time is very convenient to give up trying philosophy, "eye for an eye, tooth for adied of a heart attack on Aug. 26, 198!. Nesl (Jan. 27,28), Roses in December (Feb. 
-but convenience is not justification for tooth, sign for a sign.
Hayes met Pete Seeger in New York in 14), State of Siege (Feb. 15, 16) and Atomic quitting. In this case, impossibility is Don't get mad, get even. 
the early 1940s. They became charter Cafe (Feb. 17, 18). Relevant discussions will absurd as. well. One need simply look aboutmembers of the Almanac Singers who lived be held after a few of these films. All the league to see very successful hockeyin a commune and travelled across the students and faculty are encouraged to programs. What is especially frighten­Dan Hammer ·,)untry singing on picket lines. attend and share their thoughts on social 
ing is the thought that the chief organiza-Dillon Hall 
l~e Weavers, a more mainstream issues in the world today. 
Ihe~===========  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Box Q, Notre Dame, I.'V 46556 The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the Mudents of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eit"'er institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all member~ ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Editor-in-Cbief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic SMCExecutive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ..................... Joseph Musumeci Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount  Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakley Founded November 3, 1966  
(219) 239·5303  

r 
t ••••••••••••••
·········~···························································· 
r 




~S"OWCA~S~E~~~Mo~nday,~Janua~ry24,~1983-~page6~ 
Winter blues 
I 
guess you could say that the second semester is in full swing as we enter into our third week of classes. Our Christmas hiatus has faded into the past. The trees and lights are all packed away and the hometown stories have all been told. Our new clothes have been worn and washed -if not soiled and torn from a slip on a slippery sidewalk. Yes, it's that posi-holiday season. in Senior Bar trying not to think too much about the real world. 
You know, that time of year when the batteries die out on the Christmas toys that haven't yet been broken and the once delight ful and pretty snow has turned to chilling, grimy slush. And once again (beware unprepared freshmen) the dreaded stretch after Christmas and before spring break is upon us. 
It is indeed a strange time of year. Seniors nervously huddle in Senior Bar try not to think too much about the real world. 
Chris FtQSet 
feQtures 

They anxiously await word about jobs and grad shcools while they wonder if the local McDonald's has any openings. They even consider failing some classes so they can stay here indefin­itely but their academic integrity won't permit it. Besides, it's pretty tough to fail all those sociology and psychology classes they signed up for. 
Freshmen are pretty much initiated into college life by now and they like to sit around and talk about all the crazy things they did first semester. They don't like to talk about what happened to their perfect GPA's. Anyway, they won't pay you $2 for pep rally tickets anymore and they've probably tormed long-winded opin­ions on how to solve the social problems of Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
Seeing as they're lumped together in the middle, who really cares about juniors and sophomores? I suppose they spend their time thanking God they're not seniors and wondering if they can still change their majors. 
This is the cast of characters that now confronts this, the bleakest time of the year, and the infamous winter blues. There are no big football weekends and the weather is lousy. Eight straight weeks of classes and the weather is lousy. There's nothing to do in South Bend and, you guessed it, the weather is lousy. You may be getting the feeling that this article is destined to drive you further into the season's despair. On the contrary my dear readers. In fact, I myself have composed a brief list of dos and don'ts which are designed to make these months as painless as pos­sible. 
First, the do's. Do take roadtrips if at all possible. Getting away for a weekend and seeing some new faces can be a welcome reprieve from the winter blues. Some people might even suggest that no place could be worse than South Bend. I wouldn't go that far -I've been to Cleveland Do remind yourself how much better this year's lousy weather is than last year's lousy weather. Those overly cheerful weather­men took delight in telling us how low the mysterious wind chill factor was and there was so much snow even the skiers were beg­ging for mercy. Do get some excercise folks. You won't be able to hide that growing layer of pudgy insulation in Fort Lauderdale. Do throw a Hawaiian beach party. Sure it's been done a million times but we can always dream can't we? Hmmm, that list of do's is a bit skimpy. Well, let's move along to the don'ts. Don't count the days until spring break. We all know that it won't make the time go any faster so why torture ourselves? (By the way it's forty-six days and counting.) Don't attend 8:00 classes. Personally, I'm not quite sure what the world looks like at that ungodly hour. However, I understand that it's not really light yet and no one should have to get up when it's cold and dark. Don't leave your car in Green Field. (Trust me on this one.) Don't (please), throw snowballs at people's windows. While this may sound like innocent fun, somebody almost killed me when they smashed my window two years ago. Ifthe person who did it is reading this, watch out I'm still on your trail. I guess these don'ts don't amount to much either. Perhaps you're thinking that these helpful hints are, well, useless. l agree that they're not much, but then again, I'm not Ann Landers and there's not a whole lot you can do when winter rolls around in South Bend. Besides, there are only forty-six more days until sp · break. 
C~~PTER I



slllerd 
.~(}Sf(} 


AngeiQ AdQmson 
cut review 

I 
t is a great pleasure to see an art 
show of major proportions hit · 
our academic community; so often 
art is neglected in our search for the 
job giving sheepskin. The Light 
Vistas: Light Visions exhibition 
which opened Friday at Saint 

Mary's is something everyone on 
both campuses should see. Anyone 
would enjoy this International 
Holographers Invitational. 
The technical aspects of 

holography, important to a critique 
of the artistic use of the medium, 
have already been explained (The 
Observer, "Business and 
Technology" section, Jan. 20, 

1983). What the Moreau Gallery 
exhibit is concerned with is the 
"art" of holography. 

The problem with any radically new medium is that, in the beginning, the novelty is greater than the subject. Until the newness of this hi-tech medium subsides, almost any work is worthy of attention. Meaning and image was sometimes questionable at Saint Mary's, but all the work was interesting. 
Notable include Simone Forti, of New York, whom I have known for years a post modern choreographer. She has found a new way to explore movement and performance in her work "Planet in Retrograde." Simone's image stands, gets down on her knees, crawls across the floor and returns to standing. But in order for you to see this, you, the viewer, must walk around the plexiglass cylinder, adjusting your level as she does. The audience becomes the true mover! Forti involves the viewer kinetically -as a participant. 
Rudie Berkhout of the Netherlands, with circles and color flecks in 9JF, a transmission 


Suggestive captions and a missi 
"Hey, Marc, the column 
looked great today," the features editor told me over the telephone. 
"Why, thank you," I replied. 
"I've got another assignment for you," he said. 
"Why, thank you," I replied. I guess I'd set myself up for that one. 
ffiQtC RQmitez 


"The Keenan Revue." The only event which regularly fills O'Laughlin Auditorium, an event which boasts 90 percent hall par­ticipation, an event which in six short years has become a campus tradition. I personally felt that this was no small deal, and was awed at the idea of meeting with the top management behind this year's Revue. 
I trekked across campus to the North Quad and accidentally walked into Stanford Hall by mis­take. After getting back on track, I climbed the stairs to Keenan's fourth floor where the meeting was to take place. A little nervous, I prepared for an encount1~r with a few of the world's great minds. I knocked on the door, a tad timidly for I was slightly late. 
There was no answer. The cork­board on the wall caught my atten­tion, and I spent a few minutes staring at the ads, announcements, and Polaroid pictures with sugges­tive captions under them. Finally someone came along and let me into the room, explaining the absence of his counterparts in terms of their still being at dinner. 
I was encouraged to have a seat, and I scanned my surroundings for signs of intelligent life. At last my host and I were joined by the two late arrivals, and as the four of us made ourselves comfortable in seats around the room, I waited for one of them to say something pithy profound, and provocative. 
"Who are you?" the tall one inquired. 
I identified myself and my pur­pose, then countered the attack by demanding to know who these three people were, one by one, and what exactly they did. 
Meet Randy Fahs, Producer. A junior out of Buffalo, New York, he was appointed by the president of Keenan Hall to serve as producer of The Keenan Revue Wearing this year's edition of The Keenan Review T -shirt, he explained his duties as a massive combination of negotiating, recruiting, and coor­dinating. 
Then there's junior David Magana. The thing that struck me about him was that he looked strangely like my Informal Logic instructor. Magana is acting as director of The Keenan Revue a challenging position since it entails dealing with about 200 non-stage-oriented people. He's a Dallas Cowboys fan, but I didn't hold that against him since he makes his home there. He explained his job in terms of Fahs': Fahs works with everything off­stage, while he works with every­thing onstage. 
In one of the more thoughtful quotes of the evening, Magana further described his activities. "Randy brings the production to O'Laughlin, and I take it up the final six steps onstage." 

The tall one then introduced him­self. He's 6'5"; he's a junior, hailing from Hershey, Pennsylvania -he's Dennis H.;'a.. , Head Writer. Sporting Converse shoes, he stated that he is on a mis­sion from God. His job is to get people thinking about ideas for skits, and to encourage them to get scripts in on time. 
The three of them related the background story of The Keenan J~evue to me. It was founded seven years ago by two Keenan RA's, Rick Thomas (who now works for SC-TV in Chicago) and Tom Lenz, in an effort to alleviate boredom and to create 


The Observer Features Section 
Monday, 1anuary 24, 1983 -page 7 
holograph creates a new type of 
abstract geometric art. 
Douglas Tyler, a professor at 
Saint Mary's, did one of my 
favorite pieces -a new twist on 
a kind of Cubist design. His 
transmission holograph Dream 
Point Series Untitled No. 1 consists 
of three sheets of plexiglass 
sandwiched together and suspended 
in the room. The plexiglass has 
been scratched and the resultant 
shapes are then filled with forms 
and colors. 
Another 
her imagery, creating a contrast 
bet ween a flat surface and the 
dimensional holographic image 
is Margaret Benyon of England. 
Her imagery is reminiscient of 
primitive cave drawings. A 
commentary on the history of art 
perhaps? 
Ruben Nunez of Venezuela 
imbeds his reflection holograph, 
The Rain, in a painting of a 
constellation evoking humor and 
the mystical simultaneously. 
The one artist who asks deep questions is Rebecca Deem of New York. Two of her works, Venus and 2RI-Evolve, from the Holus Bolus series are shown. She combines three dimensional constructions with two dimensional holographs -which appear three dimensional. We are left wondering what, if either, is the reality. Can we trust our eyes in this new age? 
The holograph presents a whole realm of possibilities to the artist. Most of those who appear at Saint Mary's seem to only have gotten their feet wet in the ocean of alternatives and new visions presented by this new medium. I, for one, eagerly await the total immersion. 

)n from God: KEENAN REVUE, '83 
unity in the hall. The premiere show in Washington Hall proved to be such a success that a command performance was scheduled for the next weekend. The show's popula­rity soon proved that Washington Hall couldn't hold the amount of people that wanted to see the show. This had some worried that The Revue would literally bring the house down, as the balcony was weakening. 
The Revue. was moved to O'Laughlin Auditorium in its four­th year in order to accomodate larger audiences. Since The Revue was conceived, its popularity has not only remained constant, but it has increased as well, so much so that this year a third show has been added to the agenda. 
Fahs, Magana, and Ryan then proceeded to tess out informa­tion at me abont The Revue. They agreed that the reason it is so popular among h~ll and campus residents is th3.t tnere is no other real outlet for people on campus like The Revue. 
"Peopk get into this/' said Fahs. "Wher~ else would they stand in line to get tickets, JUSt ~v they can go in and get made fun of?" He added, "It's almo;,t l'kt an inside joke that everybody tn the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community knows." 
Keenan re5id<:n ' •l<~come involved in The Revue in a variety ways. There are writers who supply scripts, actors who appear in skits and ushers who work during the 
show as well as musicians who comprise a stage band. Behind the 
scenes are those who are involved with construction and stage crew and technical workers, and those who are involved with tickets and promotion. The jobs are well­distributed in order to involve a lot of people because it is a hall production and because of the short time available in which to put the show together. 
The average script is written around midnight inspired by a wise crack about anything and then a light bulb clicks on, "Hey! That could make a good script!" This is the normal skit born, and Magana admits that is hard to reject scripts without the person taking the rejection personally. 
"There's such a wealth of material," Magana says, "'"rhat ii' we used '1, the show w0uld last for six hours. We exclude :c ·,,t. .. 
Magana, Fahs, and Ryan promised many news ideas this year, as far as types of acts and material. Material. "There's no job beyond our abuse, no position too low," they told me. "And this year we are trying worldwide abuse. We've discovered that there's more to the world than Indiana." 

They are commited to keeping admission to The Keenan Revue free. 
"That way," said Fahs, "people don't have to pay." "And we don't have to charge," added Magana. 
Donations, however, are encouraged at the door because of the cost involved in putting the show together. 
I was also told that the Hell's Angels were being brought in for security. "They are the next best thing to the Breen-Phillips front line," the gentleman explained. 
The Keenan Revue is another alternative for a night out, and a good one at that. It plays one show nightly on the evenings of January 27, 28, and 29 at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets will be distributed at O'Laughlin and Notre Dame's Washington, on Monday, beginning at 4 p.m. Thursday night is being promoted as student night with speciab at Senior Bar that evening. Also available 3!e Keenen Revue t-shirts for only i'i·ce bucks a piece. 
What other event .-ould inspire a quote such as this from Emil T. Hoffman? "It's the best entertainment value on campus, bar none." 



Old friends 
R
ediscovering old friends can be quite an experience. Friends can tell you much about yourself, when they fall back into your life unexpectedly. 
Old friends, encountered only briefly, provide a barometer by which you can check up on yourself. You remember them as they were "back when." Phrases strung between sips of brew at a cor­ner bar capture the experiences of months or years in the life of an old friend, but the slurred syllables reveal more about what has happened to you. 
Gathering with some old friends at a watering hole in my home town over the holidays, I got a good look at myself. 
I found out that I was happy-and lucky. 
I work with people I love in a job that I enjoy, earning enough to survive comfortably. That, I gather is an unusual situation. 
Btuce Oakley 
out on Q limb 

Against a backdrop of smoke and beer, we spoke sketchy scen­arios of the great moments of our lives apart from each other. I was disappointed that so much had to be fil­tered down into so few sentences. How could any­one capture the fullness of any instant when forced to give the outline of so many? 
That night's attempt to capture fullness wore on into the wee hours, until the attempt to capture breakfast became a more pres­sing need. We left the smoke and beer to the reunions of those less hungry and headed for an all-night diner. 
Greasy food and strong coffee disappeared amid snatches of captured fullness as we continued to compress the past into as few words as possible. 
Compression, it seems, ends at the bottom of a coffee cup. 
As I rode home with one of my old friends, I knew that life was good, and I had the best of it. 
Catching up with old friends is quite an experience. 
But a firetruck flashing doom shattered my illusions. I saw the truck as we rounded the corner near my house. The red engine was parked across the street from my house, with a rescue truck 
not far away. 

I wasn't prepared for such a sight at 5 of a drunken morning. My friend let me out at my house and drove away, never men­tioning the trucks. Maybe he never noticed them. 
I was coherent er.;mgh to notice that the only house on the street with a light on was the one nearest the trucks. 
A kindly retired dentist lived in that house. When I was little, and my father and andi would play catch on our lawn, the old man always waved from across the street. Sometimes a wave wouldn't do and he would come talk to us. He always said I was the most intelligent person he had ever met. When I was little, I believed him. 
He was an honest and gentle man, and it never occurred to me that he might stretch the truth a bit to build a boy's ego. Now, a rescue vehicle's light spun madly in front of his house, vanquishing images of gentleness. 
I stumbled across the street to the trucks, looking for someone who knew what was happening. I searched the cabs of the trucks with a thoroughness that only a drunken young fool can muster, and found no one. 
So I stood in the street by the trucks and stared stupidly at the front door of the old man's house, waiting for anyone to emerge with news. When a fireman finally came out to the truck, I asked him what had happened. 
He compressed the past into just two words: "Heart attack." "Mr. or Mrs.?" I asked, not knowing i(the woman's failing health even permitted her to live at home anymore. 
"Mr." 

Five minutes later, I watched from a window inside a warm living room as the trucks sped away with a man who had always asked -and cared-how I was doing. 
As they drove off with this man, I got a second good look at myself. I was so out of touch with a place that had been home that I didn't even know if the old man's wife still lived with him. I found that "home" wasn't a part of a life I had decided was happy. 
I sat and wondered whether happiness could make up for the loss. When I was little, an old man would have expected me to know the answer. 



smerd 
.I D 
G 
E 
T~ 
6 
c 
---------~--­


~j1()11tS:fl=:~:=i=e~S========~=====================M=o=n=d=ay='=Ja=n=ua=ry=2=4=,1=9=83=-=p=ag=e=8 
li1 fhe ( JfJserl'er and The Associated Press 
The NVA office has announced that signups for men's and women's interhall track will run through Wednesday, Jan. 26. The NVA also announced that cross-country ski rentals are available again this year. Call 239-6100 for more details. Finally, aerobic exercises are being held on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4: I 0 in the ACC. -The Observer 
Aerobic dancing for faculty and staff starts this week. Classes will meet on Mondays and Wednesdays at 5:I5 p.m. in Gym 2 on the ACC upper concourse. A $12 fee will be charged for the seven week course. -The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do Club's practice scheduled for Tuesday, Jan. 25, has been cancelled. Practice will be Thursday Jan. 27, at 6:30p.m. in the wrestling room.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Ski Team participated in a nine team meet this past weekend at Brandywine Ski Area in Ohio. Saint Mary's College placed fifth overall. Notre Dame men's team placed third overall, Notre Dame women's· team placed first overall. Individually, Ruth Atanosoff took first in the women's slalom and Sheila Smiggen took second. Colleen Dwyer from Saint Mary's placed first in the women's giant slalom 
and  John  O'Donovan  took  first  in  the  men's  slalom.  -The  
Observer  
At the siena Heights' Invitational,  Notre  

Dame wrestlers finished first with 82 II 4 points to Oakland's 81 and Siena Heights' 80. Finishing first for the Irish were Eric Crown at 118, Mark Fisher at 126, John Krug at 177, and heavyweight Mike Golic. Their next match is tomorrow at 7:30p.m. at the ACC pit against '-':abash and Cincinnati. -The Observer 
Notre Dame-Fordham tickets for the Feb. 10 game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half-price to students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game of a double-header with Manhattan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are $5. -The observer 
The ND-SMC Fencing Team lost Friday to the defending national champions, Wayne State. The men's team was defeated 15-12, the women lost 10-6. On Saturday, the men beat Michigan State 26-l and Northwestern 19-8. The women won 8-1 over Michigan State and 10-2 over Northwestern. The men's team holds a record of9-l, the women's record 7-3. The next match for both squads is Saturday at the ACC when they take on Ohio State, Cleveland State, and Illinois-Chicago Circle. -The Observer 
After 10 years 
Bjorn Borg announces retiren1ent 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP)­Bjorn Borg, tne young, blond Swede whose icy calm dominated '~-...wnis for half a decade, announced hi§,.~tirement yesterday at age 26, sayiri~ he no longer had the ca~pet4tive spirit which led him to an · unp1ecedented five straight Wimbledon championships. 
Borg's coach, Lennart Bergelin, said Borg made the announcement to members 'of the media who were following his exhibition matches in Thailand. \ 
Bergelin said Borg would play one more tournament on the Volvo Grand Prix circuit, at Monte Carlo during the first week of April. But Bergelin added that Borg would continue playing exhibitions. 
In an interview with Kvallposten, a newspaper in Malmo, Sweden, Borg said he had decided to cancel his comeback after a layoff of some one and a half years from tourna­ment competition. 
"I have not got the right motiva­tion," the paper quoted him as saying. "I cannot give 100 percent, and if I cannot do that it would not be fair to myself to go on. Tennis has to be fun if you are to get to the top and I don't feel that way any more. That's why I quit." 
In New York, Borg's _agent, Bob Kain, confirmed the retirement, saying the tennis star will complete his contract obligations by playing at Monte Carlo and the Suntory Cup in Tokyo. 
Kain, who was attending the Volvo Masters tournament, said Borg has not completely ruled out returning to the court in I 984 or later. 
Borg reportedly wanted more out of life than running 12 miles a day and practicing four hours daily. 
"Bjorn doesn't have the fighting 
spirit to go on practicing four hours 
a day," Bergelin said. "We have 
been playing for three months, and 
he is in good shape, buthe has the 
feeling that he doesn't have it." 
Bergelin said that Borg had 
planned to make the announcement 
on his upcoming trip to the United States but that persistent press French Open. reports in recent days had led him But ;'t mnnth later, he lost a to make the announcement classic Wimbledon final to Sunday. McEnroe, reversing the result of a 
Borg had been semi-retired for year earlier, when he beat the almost two years after losing his young New Yorker in five sets in grip on the world's No. l ranking to what many consider one of the best John McEnroe of the United Sates. matches ever played. 
His 1\!St big victory came in June Borg's fire seemed diminished in 1981, when he captured his sixth that Wimbledon match. 
• • .leers 
continuedfrom page 12 

Bjork teamed up to feed Joe Bowie 
who fired a slapshot high into the 
Bulldog nets. 

The Irish couldn't hold 2-0 lead 
for long though, as Craig Winter 
and Tim Wendt scored only 
minutes apart to tie it at 2-2 at the 
end of the period. 

The second period looked more like a rugby match than a hockey game as both teams played with fire in their eyes. Eight penalties were called during this 20 minutes -5 went against Notre Dame. 
But it was the lack of a penalty whistle that broke the 18 minute tie. 
With only two minutes left in the period, Irish co-captain Mark Doman had the puck in Ferris State territory when he was blatantly tripped by a Bulldog oefenseman. 
The officials never called the offense, making Smith furious and forcing the Irish to lose precious concentration. 
Ferris State went on to score two goals in the remaining minutes giving them a 4-2 lead and a crucial momentum. 
"Up until that point, I thought the game was pretty even," said Smith. "It was definitely the turning point of the game because they scored two quick goals and we never recovered." 
Doman, the victim of the trip, explained what happened. ·"One ref said that I stepped on 
my own stick and the other said he was too far away to see what happened," Doman said. "But it was a definite trip and it ending up giving Ferris State and important lead going into the la~i period." 
The third period was a courageous, but a nonetheless losing effort for the Irish. Bowie, Higgins, and John DeVoe all tallied sc:ores for Notre Dame, but three Bulldog goals kept them on top. 
McNamara was pulled at 19:06 giving Ferris State their last goal in an open net period. McNamara ended up with 42 saves on the night. 
The wildness of Saturday's game had an effect on the score. 
"It was close to getting out of control several times," Smith commented. "The officials set the tone of the game, and when they are not consistem, things go up for grabs." 
Even though the weekend did not turn up a big victory for his team, 
Smith  was  pleased  with  what he  
saw.  
"I  think  the  kids  played  real  

hard," Smith said. "I was pleased with our passjng and the improve­ment of our coverage. All of our lines exerted good pressure and aided a balanced attack." 
The Irish travel to Kalamazoo, Mich. next weekend for a Friday night game. On Saturday they will return to play Western Michigan at home. They are still looking for their first sweep of the seas 
The Obs,erver will accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classtfleds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on. All classtfteds must be prepaid. 
etther 1n person or through the mat I 




Classifieds 
Fatrly open-mtnded roomate needed BUY MARDI GRAS TICKETS--WIN A mardi gras 1s coming!! mardi gras 1s com! SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS Third 1n 3 bdrm apl Castle Pt. Apts 

TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS!!! 1ng!! Information and applications may be
NOTICES LOST/FOUND 
lnfo:277-2657 

------------obtained by contacting Andrea Shap­DANCE-A-THON for MARDI GRAS pell at the Center for Social Concerns, 
O.K NO MORE CUTE STUFF IF YOU LOST. Gray wool KANGOL cap Lost 1n Saturday, February 5--sign up NOW BOOKS FOR SALE Econom1cs nth. 23!1-5293. Application deadline: NEED A HAIRCUT AND DON T WANT January31.
Hayes-Healy Please. my ears are freez­Tak1ng S1des. The Problems of TO PAY MORE THAN $4(GUYS) OR 

FOR SALE

Ing! Call 8077 Philosophy, A Shan Calculus, StatistiCal 
$6(GIRLS) THEN CALL TODAY FOR AnalySIS Marketing, lntro to Personality.

YOUR VERY OWN APPOINTMENT Sorry you mtssed ust BUT you can still
LOST: ROOM AND MAIL KEYS OVER Accounling and L1fesav1ng call M1chole THE WEEKEND. IN A CIRCULAR KEY 1979 Honda Prelude S1lver grey, rac1ng 233 8456
MICHOLE 233-8456 BOP TILL YOU DROP!!! MARDI GRAS _ order any ongmal movte poster by phone DANCE-A-THON SATURDAY. or by ma1l Conlact PO-FLAKE PRODUC­
CHAIN WITH THE NUMBER 218 IM· stnpes, red cloth int A1r. automatt1c AM­UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR Fnday PRINTED ON THE SIDE OF BOTH FM stereo/8 track Electnc-powerecl sun­FEBRUARY# FEATURING CHARIOT GIRL SCOUT COOKIE SALE NORTH TIONS. 20317th Avenue. 0Hawa. lllino1s, Noon Til Monday Noon $29 95 includes 
KEYS. PLEASE CALL 1858 IF FOUND roof 43,600 m1 , exec cond $4975 or DINING HALL DINNER JANUARY 24-61350. or phone (309) 454-2571 .THANKS best offer 233-3143, ext 282 after 9:30 
150 Free M11es Sales Tax and Insurance SHOW 27 VISA/MC accepted Be sure to ask about 
MARDI GRAS TALENT 
Extra Phone Rob for Reservalions 259--------------discounts on orders of 3or more.-Thanks! FOUND· Eyeglasses between Flanner 
FEBRUARY ffiN CHAUTAUQUA!!!
8459 CASSETTES, CASSF:TTES TDK SA-90 

and PW See NO lost/found dept STAINED GLASS ARTIST ACCEPTING MARDIGRASDANCE-A-THONSATUR·
$2 70 each No lim1t Call289-7640 WORK ORDERS CALL fi Yo Vol 'loft! 'JAY. FEBRUARY 5 FEATURINGLOST· A pair of STAN SMITH IennlE JUNIORS!!JUNIORS!!JUNIORS!! Off­CHARIOTshoes 1n e1ther the Rock or Alumn1 Hall on campus Jun1ors may piCk up an Act1v1yThursday. Jan 13 Please call Steve at Typewriter for sale. Gd. Cond., $25 l'f best ------------Calendar for the months of Jan and Feb
[ FOR RENT 1061 for a $5 reward offer. Phone 3455. Cind}' Merlot·k ~ ET loves you. Happy 
1n the Students Ac1v1ttes OffJce tn Birthday. DANCE-A-THON lor MARDI GRillS LaFortune 
FOUND--Pair of mens gloves 1n a class­

'~aturdav. February 5--Sign up NOW room on third lloor of the Eng1neenng 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS · In-5-bdrm completely furnished. close to BUIIdmg They look preHy e•pens1ve Call 
Johnny Bog, ~eventeen happy months 
formation n1ght Monday, 7 p m 1n Ltbrary
Thanks, Love, Fur-famed one. 
campus. comfortable house for group of 5 36561fthey are yours 
or 6 for1983-84 Phone 288-3942 after 6 

MARDI GRAS DANCE-A-THON?unge FOUND--Pair of woman s glasses be­MARA-Parting ·is all we know of heaven Saturday. february 5, 1983---~ign up to dance-----------­

PERSONALS 

MI<LE ROOMMATE WANTED to share 2 tween Stephen Chem1stry and the F1eld and all we need of hell )<OW in b01h dining halls 
bee room apt 2nd floor of duplex 2 m1les House To cia,., call x3454 

'Ioo busy lo t>al righl'! Get nutntivn -------------------------­fro"' campus $67 50/month plus utilities 
INSURANCE FINEST QUALITY Due to a lack of foresight on everyone else's !.,..!I TIME Gr3d preferred 289-81 18 LOST: One dark t'llue CB tnsutated w1nter 
VITAMINS. MINERALS. AND DIET poart. I am throwing my own surprise To start thank1rg abcv! 83··84 Student JacKel. wtth ught l.llue stnpe last seen at Govemm&nt pos•t·.,ns at SMC If you are
SUPPLEMENTS DELIVERED ON birthday party. Show up by 3p Tues. the 25 a1 &OP TILL YOU DROP!!! MARDI GRAS mtert-':..~'ld 1n nJl""f"ll,..~ tor ANY posthcm.
Student hous1ng . 6-bdr"l house. fully Bridg,..ts Sat mghl If you took 11 by acc1· 

CANCE-A THON FEBRUARY 5 you musn rome to a:1 jnfonnahon meetmg
carpeteo. 2 baths, 2 kitchens wlloft 232-der-t, please return 11! Call Matt at 8369 CAMPUS. De1ails, call Mikc'233-7328. 305 C"are 10 reallky surpnse me rHE JOHN 
4057 or 272-7767 HAUTER FAN CLUB 
________.. ----e1tner Jan 24 , " s·oo or Jan 25 at 9.00 
FOUND: A thin gold nng, no identifica­SUMMER SERYICE I'ROJECTS SAVE HOCKEY! SAVE HOC~:EY! p m 8ott1 ses::t:YIS -.re 1n the Student A'" tion.at Keenan party on Saturday Call 

hofolnformation and apphcatinn; may be THI~· IS TO A.l.l. THOSE Wtil' CUT SAVE H<JCK"VIII fa1rs Conferant'l! a:.oof"rl If you have any3214 or come to 105 Keenan 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT obtained by contacting Andrea Shappell 01 OOWN MY CHICIKEt; SOLP A.ND IRY quesflr,ns. Call M<<'o<'a at 501 7 
SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO GOOD 

1he Center lor Social Cone<rns. 239-5293. A.ND CRUSH MY ASPIRA.TI4lr-iS TO Bt. 
AREAS 277-3604 

App!i-ations deadline: January 31. THt: PERt'F.CT HOMEMII.Kielt. Next time 
STAINED GLASS ARTIST ACCEPTING you guy; feel sick and need a little mothering--WORK ORDERS CALL 2871631 Furn1shed 1bdrmapt Near~~ D.$185oer WANTED The N:<re Dam .. F •. 0 C Support Com­
mardi gras 1s coming!' mardi gra~ is coming!! FArQlliCHE month plus own electric Phone 272-7767 ------------mrttet-!'J()i(~S t1$ h~5~-1 'nf~,rmatJOOal ana or· 
or 232·4057 Sorry you mtssed us! BUT you can sttll gan~uwona1 11'\o!WJn<~ on Monday.
wamed to buy; one reasonably priced sofa. HAr r'V BIRTHDA.' JOHfo<. To the hottest tail on the ND campu:,. We 
order any ongmal movte poster by phone Janunryo ~~ at a·.OO p rn tn tne Hayes­
call mary or many 7994 IS IT LELIBl.l& hop.; you have a fantastic 22nd birthday. 
or by ma1l Contact PO-FLAKE PRODUC-Heal'! Audilorum Ali Interested persons.4 apts. for rent, same building, L.W.W. area Ren1ind us to buy you a birthday piZLa to be 
TIONS. 20317th ~venue. Ottawa. llhnms. rncludrng newcomers. are enthusrasttcal-Room for 12 students. Unfurnished except NEED RIOt; to <hicago (Pallatine area) for personally6 delivered by your fa·10rite Lt:Mans 61350. or phone (309) 454-2571 ly welcomed Plans for the upcom1ng sto~vc and refrig. Affordable for a ~roup of one of the !asl wef'k~nd:;; in Feb. Call Jeani.: ..i MARDI GRAS IS \OMING!!! Sign up now girls. Happy Birthday Mike!! Lo\'e,m Julie, VISAIMC accep:ed Be sure to ask about Campbell < Boycon Referendum Will be stuJe!!!s· Call 016-44$-267R. 7834 '·'!let~ dining halls Amy anu Monka. drscounts on orders of 3 or more Thanks! dtscussed 
~------------------------~--~M~----~~~---.-.----------~~--...-~·~~~~·__....................................._....................~--mm.m......._..-J 
... Veal 
continuedfrom page 12 
the lead to just one. 
"I thought we put ourselves in a big hole in the first half because we missed a half-dozen shots around the free throw line that we needed," added Phelps. "We missed the key ones and go down II yet we still came back to tie it." 
While Notre Dame was able to tie the score on two occasions, they never had the chance to take the lead in the second half. 
Driesell complemented his team's defense against Irish star John Paxson, who was held to 14 points, while POhelps was sick over incon­sistent officiating, noting that Maryland took 35 foul shots compared to just 12 for Notre Dame. 
"As much as we got the ball inside, I couldn't believe we didn't shoot a free throw in the first half," stated Phelps. "I'd like to see some of the pushing underneath that wasn't called." 
"I think everyone saw Adkins travel right in front of the scorer's table with eight seconds left." 
Phelps also pointed to a contro­versial 3-second call against fresh­man Tim Kempton in the closing minutes as "crucial." 
Although the Irish worked the ball well and used good shot selection for most of the game, Maryland came up with the key plays to win the game, dropping Notre Dame to 10-6. Maryland is now 9-5. 
Notre Dame still made over half of their shots in the game after hitting 65.4 percent of their shots in the second half. Further, the Irish committed only nine turnovers. 
Although it was not considered a great game for Paxson, he still finished with a game-high six assists while refusing to make a single turnover. 
Jim Dolan continued on his 

The Observer Monday, January 24, 1983-page 9 
recent tear, making 8 of his 13 "Wi-zard of Westwood." But more shots and sharing team rebound importantly, the Washington honors with Kempton with six. Redskins will be playing down the 
The loss also snapped a three­road again when they take on the game winning streak for Notre Miami Dolphins in Super Bowl Dame in the Maryland series, one XVII in Pasadena, California. which is becoming a classic. The But this time, hopefully, Notre last five games have been decided Dame will be the one that sombers by a total of ten points. the partisan fans. 
The Irish continue their drive for IRISH ITEMS -Lefty Driesell their goal, the NCAA post-season called Notre Dame "an NCAA tournament, next Sunday when (tournament) team." they battle UCLA after an eight­Maryland garnered 31 of 57 avail­day layoff. Despite the noticeable able rebounds and thus became improvement since the early losses only the third opponent to out­to Kentucky, Indiana, and UCLA, rebound the Irish this season. The few more results like Saturday's Terps join the select club that game will keep Notre Dame out. includes only UCLA and 
Not only will the Irish face the Lafayette. Adrian Branch, who top-ranked team Sunday but they along with Maryland guard Jeff also go against the mystique of Adkings led the defense against Pauley Pavilion and the legend of Paxson, said the Terps were "trying John Wooden, the to tire him out." 

Ballroom Dance Classes Continue 
The ballroom dance classes at Saint Mary's 
have been very popular and will continue. 
Wednesday, January 26th, will be the first lesson of a five week ballroom dance class that will be taught by Ray Sexton from Indianapolis, and the total cost is only $25 for five weeks. 
Sign up now in the 
Saint Mary's Student 
Activities Office 
284-4561 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY. 



Throbbing head? 
Quaking body? Has 
Fast...Free 
Monday dealt another 
crushing blow? Revive 

Delivery 
yourself with a well­
rounded meal from 

Call us. 
Domino's Pizza. We'll 
help smooth the wrinkles 

277·2151 
out of your day. 1835 S. Bend Ave. Domino's Pizza Plaza 23 Center 
® Delivers.'" 
Open tor lunch Ask about our party 11 am-1am Sun.-Thurs. discounts: 11 am-2am Fri. &Sat. 
© 1983 Domino's Pizza. Inc. Coke/ 16 oz. cups 



r··-··················-,
I Only 
For a 16" 1-item pizza 
1
I plus 4 cups of Coke! I I $7 49 Coupon value $2.25. I
I • (Tax not included.) I I Good Mondays only. 
1
I Expires in 2 weeks. I
Ml Fast, Free Delivery 1
1 
1835 S. Bend Ave. I 
• Plaza 23 Center
II ~ I
. Phone: 277-2151 
I : . ® I
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.
I Umited delivery area. I
I 29832t2sso I 


L•••••••••••••••••••••.J 

The Miami Dolphin defense has been impressive the last two weeks, frustrating two high-powered offenses in advancing to next week's Super Bowl. (AP) 


"DYNASTY~PECIAL"crl OO1 
margarltaS '/1 • 1
I 
(Free hot cheese nachos) I THURS. Wisconsin Stag 1

I 

12 oz. can 
1 
"HAPPY HOUR" SAT. Bud Draft Pitchers J2.95 I 

I GO ND 8ASKET8ALLERS!!! I 
I BEATUCLA I 






L----------------~ 




oJwalf()ft
f wilh special guest 
RED RIDER 
Saturday, Feb. 19 8 PM Notre Dame A.:c.c. 
All seats reserved: $11.50 & $10.50 Tickets on sale Mon., Jan.24 at A.C.C. Box office only. Tickets on sale Tuesday at A.C.C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Orchard mall, Pierre Moran Mall, & the Catalogue Store), Robertson's (South Bend & Concord Mall), St. Joe Bank (main branch), The Elkhart Truth J.R.'s (La Port), and World Records (Goshen). 
The Observer Monday, January 24, 1983 -page 10 
'~>-.UWc~r~~~ ·' · . ' .· liii!OMI6~ 
I  toRonto exchanqe  I  
t  j:Es. 24-27  1  
Stqn-ups staRt tu€s.,]an 25  -:::.  
/ at th€ StUb€nt CjOV€Rnmrnt o~~IC€S  
ICost $45  0€POSit $25  ~  

~.~~J!Atl&W0~~~~,.. 
mon., jan 24 Wasn't That a Time (Pete Seeger) 
tues., jan 25 $1.00 New Center for Social Concerns 
Ruling Class (Peter O'Toole) 
wed., jan. 26 Free Engineering Auditorium 

thurs., jan. 27 fri., jan. 28 
mon., feb. 14 
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest $1.00 En ineering Auditorium 
Roses in December (also at noon) Free New Center for 

tues., feb. 15 State of Seige wed., feb. 16 Free New Center for Social Concerns Atomic Cafe 
thurs., feb. 17 
$1.00 Engineering Audtorium 
fri., feb. 18 




buying anywhere else! 
Try a Delicious NUTTY MONK~~~~ 
1 shot Frangelico 2 shots Bailey's DSPECIAL OFFERD 



FRANGELICO 

... SOOml. 
$9.99 BAILEY'S IRISH CREAM 
750ml. 



$10.99 

King's Cellar Value Vodka and Gin 
YOUR CHOICE 3.99 4.99 7.99 
750 mi. 1.0 liter 

Van Ort returns 

Belles drop t\Vo in tournament 
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's basketball team began last week having won four of its previous five games, but the past week took its toll on the Belles' winning streak. 
The Belles capped their week by losing their two games in the Saint Mary's Roundball Classic that was held at the Angela Athletic Facility over the weekend. Since manchester defeated Saint Mary's last Tuesday, the Belles' winning streak has now been turned into a three-game losing streak .. 
"This has been our low week," said Saint Mary's coach Mike Rouse. "I don't know if it was injuries or better competition. 
"It  was  low,  but  we'll  come  
back."  
Saint  Mary's dropped  a  75-41  

decision to Lake Michigan Catholic on Friday night and then lost to the University of Michigan-Dearborn, 69-57, on Saturday afternoon to send its record to 5-7. Lake Michigan Catholic defeated Purdue-Calumet on Saturday for the title. 
Missy Van Ort, seeing her first 
EXPIRES 219/83
EXPIRES 219/83 
MEDIUM 14" 
X-LARGE 17" 
CHEESE PIZZA 
CHEESE PIZZA 



$4.71 
Prices good thru Jan. 29 
action since December 10 when she injured her leg, tallied 12 points against Lake Michigan Catholic. Elaine Suess matched Van Ort's output while Cindy Short popped in II. 
The Belles were never in the contest after the initial moments, trailing 42-24 at halftime. 
Teresa McGinnis paced the Belles against Dearborn with 18 points, 16 in the first half when she canned eight of nine shots. Short added II. 
Saint Mary's, who had lost to Dearborn 63-61 earlier in the season without Van Ort, trailed 37-35 at intermission. A spurt by the visitors at the start of the second half put the Belles behind 56-47 midway into the second half and Saint Mary's could never recover. 
Suess, who sat out the second half for disciplinary reasons, was limited to three points. With Suess riding the bench, McGinnis was switched the point-guard position, which limited her scoring oppor­tunities. 
Rouse indicated that out of last week's three-game skid, he was particularly pleased with Erin 

You're Wasting your money 
Liquor 
King Williams 86 750 Clan MacGregor Scotch 750 
(Imported)  
Finlandia Vodka  750  
'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!While quantities last~  
NO RAINCHECKS  
Maker's Mark  750  
Jack Daniel's  750  
Canadian Club  750  
"Jameson Irish Whiskey  750  
J&B Scotch  750  
Smirnoff  750  
Castillo Rum  1.75  

5.99 4.99 
5.99 
7.99 7.99 6.99 7.99 8.99 4.99 9.99 

Generic Regular and 4.99 Light case  
Budweiser 7.29case  
Coors 6 pk cans 2.99 Labatt's case bottles 1Q.99  

Foley's performance against Manchester and McGinnis's weekend shooting exhibition. 
"We need for her to shoot more," said Rouse of McGinnis's long­range prolifics. "Her shooting from that distance doesn't bother me. That is a good shot for her." 
The Belles, who have had to cope with injuries all season, suffered another. Sophomore Chip Ayotte was taken to the hospital where X-rays indicated she sustained bruises to three ribs and possibly fractured a fourth. 
In all, six Belles have received some sort of injury this season. Heather McCune has sat out the whole season, while Van Ort and Trisha Nolan have missed a total of six games between them. 
"It's not an excuse," Rouse said. "It just gives you an indication of some of the things we,'re fighting." 
Van Ort performed well after missing the past four games, but Nolan was basically ineffective. 

"She was lacking the confidence that comes from not being in shape," said of Rouse, of Nolan. "You get tired when you shoot. A lot of times she was favoring the ankle. Missly is afraid of it agility wi::;e. 
"WE need to get the ankles healed before we can do anything," continued Rouse who pointed out that with the recent injuries to Van Ort, Nolan and Ayotte the Belles have missed three of their top four rebounders at one point in the season. 
Besides the injury situation, Rouse said defense was a concern to him. The Belles have given up an average of 73 points in their last three games after having surrend­ered just 55.8 per contest in the. first nine games. 
!....·-~....-...........,.....,..~..,..~·..,.,.) 
~ DULL WORK • HIGH PAY! ~ 
[ Distributeour advertising materials in and [l around local campuses 4-15 hours per week. l ~ Absolutely no selling. Choose your own ~ • hours, must be able to work without • ~ supervision. Your earnings a"' bast>d upon [f the amount of materials you distribute: ~ l average earnings of our 310 campus reps is ' r $6.58 an hour. further details providt>d in [l our Introductory Packel l 
American Passage [

I[ 500 3rd Ave. W., Seattle, WA 98119 l 
1 (206) 282-8111 ~
--............ ~...,.. ................ _.....,.....,............ 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! Omega Productions, Inc. 'is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type 
of  music  for  any  type  
of event.  Parties  are  our  
specialty.  Custom  music  

programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 
NOW IS THE TIME TO RESERVE A SUMMER JOB IN THE ARMY RESERVE 
Why should you think about a summer job now? Because the Army Reserve has many different skills available, including skills in fields like medical technology, engineering, and electronics. By joining the Reserve now, you can secure skill training. And you won't have to wait until summer to start earning money. 
The Reserve will guarantee you summer skill training up to nine months in advance, if you qualify. You attend monthly weekend meetings at your local Reserve unit, and after the first three months you start earning over $73 a month. · 
Then, this summer and next you take your basic and skill training full-time. And you get full-time Army pay of over $1,000 each summer. 
If you'd like to get a head start on the summer job hunting season, call the number below. Or stop by: 
SGT Hamilton 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY RESERVE. 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

IheO~~er====================================== 


~~4()l~~=============================M=o=n=d=a=y=,J=a=n=u=a=ry=2=4='=1=9=83=-=p=a=g=e==ll 
Bloom County 
~---------------,

L£f'S (:;(), CR6W... SEAM UP. ..WE/V€ GOT Nf-W WORL-DS 
1D exRORf.. 
.s0 Cf?fi'()J. lo jTifPING OUT, fiND l S/1'f, 'WffERE /lifE YCXi G0!/16 ? "llNO j/(E 5f/Y5, "j(/Of fiNG " 
I 


Fate 
I CAN'T l!NilER.ST~D WHY if<JPLf COMPLAIN ABoUT 

ITS REALLY NOT Bt.D.
ltiE DINING HALL FOOD 
\ 



The Daily Crossword 
1/24/83 

© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
fltVD I 6/IY. "GIRL'!J 6Tfffr? . . Wt/11T 16 'GIRL'S 6T(frF'?"
I 
YCV [)~DNT 

WilAT'S W'RON~ 
Now?
' 
ACROSS 26 Greek 1 NewTesta· goddess ment book 29 Not proven 5 French port 34 Leonine 10 Land sound measure 35 Father 14 Flight 37 Famous 
maneuver Indian 15 Tanker 38 Pointed 16 Bucket tool 17 Weekend 39 Divert 
follower 41 Fabulous 19 Money bird players 42 Barwith 
20 Blue­shackles (speedy 44 Dynamic ones) beginning 
21 Ornament 45 Fizzy water 23 Chops 46 Impassively 25 -tree 48 Do a shoe· 
(cornered) maker's job 

Berke Breathed 
MR.SRJCK IS MWIC.Al.. TI:AM IJ ON HIS TO 1116 BR/~.. FANNY, SIR. 
ON lH£ tJOUB(.£. RE.PORT5 
/H~VY ~(£, 

Jeb Cashin 
I DIDL 
I O!PN'T KNoW... 
I'/1 tO YOUNG .., 


Photius 
K£rtHuP M£RINCiU.( 
F'i£1 
\ 




Campus 
All Day-Billiards Tournament Sign Up, 
Poolroom under the Huddle  
4:30  p:m.  Mathematical  Seminar,  
Classifying  Models  of First  Order  Theories,"  

Prof. Anand Pillay, 226 CCMB 
6 p.m. -SMC Government Election Informa­tional Meeting, SACR 
7 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Citizen Kane," Annenberg Auditorium, $2 
7 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Citizen Kane," Annenberg Auditorium, $2 
7 and 9:30 p.m. -Social Concern Film Series, "Wasn't That a Time?'' Center for Social Concerns Bldg., $1 
7 p.m. -Mandatory Candidate's Meeting, for all those interested in running for Student Body President and Vice President, Student Government Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune 
8 p.m.-WOW Lecture, "Risk Taking: Choice, Change and Challenge," Louisa Kennedy, Carroll Hall 
8 p.m. -Mandatory Candidates Meeting, for all those interested in running for the Student Senate 1983-84 term, Student Government offices 
8 p.m. -New York Philharmonic, WSND-FM 88.9 
9 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Nosferatu," Annenberg Auditorium, $2 
II p.m. -Captured Live, Greg Kihn Band. WSND-1.M 
The Far Side 
. 
'•

l)&Js ~e(;/S rDy has -My nas fl&-75dog5 Ffea5 rf'.y do9s ros 
-
Come hear the true account of the IRANIAN HOSTAGE CRISIS••• Student Union Academic Commission presents 
EX-HOSTAGE MOORHEAD KENNEDY ALONG WITH HIS WIFE LOUISA1 In a joint lecture entitled "Survivorship: Peacemaking &Crisis Resolution" Tuesday, January 25•8:00 p.m.•Library Auditorium 

50 Actress 
Merkel 51 Fe or Cruz 53 Eucalyptus 57 Deficiency 
disease 61 Paddles 62 Dairy 
product 64 Peril 65 Make joyful 66 Resembling: 
suff. 67 Salver 68 Marry again 69 Combustible 
heap 
DOWN 1 Vestments 2 Foal 3 Journey 4 Patrol 
car's prey 5 Library 
item 6 Flush 7 Antiquity, 
old style 8 Parch 9 Audition 
10 Soothe 11 Vehicle 12 Public 
disorder 13 Otherwise 18 Sinclair 
Lewis' 22 Exhausted 24 Carriages 26 Semitic 

people 27 Namely 28 Greeting 30 Kind of 
beer 31 Painful 
struggle 32 Wear away 33 Of a peer 36 Type style: 
abbr. 39 Accomplish: ing 
40 Topped with a decora· tive piece 
43 Of dubious 
value 45 Jar 47 Painter 
of sorts 49 Impress 
clearly 52 Ridge 53 Diamond 
fragments 54 Den 55 Majoror 
Minor 56 French 
title: abbr. 58 Slippery 59 Despot 60 Parched 63 Union 
1/24/83 street monogram 
A bus will leave the Main Circle at 9 a.m. on Sat., Jan 29 and will go to State and Randolph Sts. 
Bus will leave from that site at 6 p.m. to return to N.D. 
Monday, January 24, 1983-page 12



~Rorts 
After furious rally 
Veal's free thro\Vs beat Irish 

By WILL HARE Notre Dame 68-67 before 7,210 shown that to the team." 
Sports Writer somber fans. There were almost But Maryland's players had ice in more no-shows (6,290) after over their veins when it carne to making 13,000 seats were sold in advance. free throws. Veal, a 6-6 junior 
COLLEGE PARK, Md.-Maybe Herman Veal held off a furious forward shooting just 70 percent everybody in town only cared and desperate Irish rally by making from the line on the year, hit all six about the Washington Redskins­four consecutive free throws in the of his foul shot attempts. Mean­Dallas Cowboys NFC Champion­final eleven seconds, sealing Notre while Maryland center Ben ship game a few blocks down the Dame's fate. Coleman, a 62 percent free road. Trailing 58-51 with 2:0 I remain­thrower, made nine of eleven. 
In fact, the loudest cheering in ing, Notre Dame applied an Cole Field House on Saturday aggressive full court press, forcing Coleman,' a junior transfer from afternoon came when the-P.A. Maryland into a faster tempo and Minnesota, led the Terps with 19 announcer said the 'Skins had enabling the Irish to narrow the points and 9 rebounds. It was advanced to the Super Bowl. Even margin to 64-63 with 18 seconds Coleman who starred in the University of Maryland pep left. Maryland's upset of top-ranked band played "Hail to the Redskins" "They're (Notre Dame) a gutsy UCLA earlier this season, scoring before the school's own fight song. tearn,"said Driesell. "They carne 27 points and grabbing 12 
But Coach Lefty Driesell's back and made the big shots. I saw rebounds. Maryland Terrapins had their them on film against Marquette "We said we had to stop Branch minds on basketball, downing and perhaps I should not have (Maryland's 6-8 guard Adrian) and 
Coleman, and they went II for 18, so they did a pretty good job," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. 


Women snuff Flames, 
Notre Dame suffered through a miserable first half, making only 12 of 31 shots (38. 7 percent), and went


subs make game a rout 
down by as many as eleven points. By MIKE SULLIVAN replaced all five starters with her After Maryland led 29-18 with two Sports writer equivalent of Digger Phelps' Gold minutes left until halftime, Jim 
Team-the White Team. Dolan hit a twelve-footer for two 

When the visiting team enters the This squad-freshmen Trena of his game-high 20 points. game with a 2-13 record and Keys, Lynn Ebben, Denise Bill Varner then ignited a rally proceeds to shoot 26 percent, turn Basford, sophomore Carrie Bates, with a key steal, which was 
the ball over 24 times, and get out­and junior Jenny Klauke-had been followed by jumpers by Joseph rebounded by 20, it does not figure put into the Detroit game on Friday Price and Dolan to cut the Terrapin to be much of a game. without much success. A rash of edge to 29-24 at intermission. 
It wasn't. turnovers had allowed Detroit Varner then hit Notre Dame's first The hapless opponent for the to cut an Irish lead. DiStanislao two shots of the second half to cut Notre Dame women's basketball did not hesitate to put them into the 
See VEAL, page 9 

team was the Lady Flames from close game, however. Illinois-Chicago. The Irish were "Denise, LYnn, Trena, Carrie, 
... 
able to overcome 31 points from and Jenny need the playing time," Lose secondgamethe foul line by UIC and win their she explained. "There's no doubt 12th game of the season in a rout, that the physical skills are there. 88-61, yesterday in the ACC. We're looking for people who are 
leers salvage tie with Ferris State 
Notre Dame never TRAILED IN going to get the job done." THIS GAME. Shari Matvey hit The White Team definitely got By JANE HEALEY Dame dominated the second Cook neatly tucked the puck past a 10-foot jumper the first time the job done. In the II minutes period. Ferris State's Scott Seaver McNamara amidst a crowd in the
Sports Writer 

down the court for the first bucket that it was in the game, Notre dug the puck out of a crowd in Notre Dame zone. of the game. By the time the Dame outscored Illinois-Chicago It a of a front of the Notre Dame net and When the final buzzer went off,
was heartbreaker 

Flames took their first shot, the 25-7, turning the 15-lllead into a poked it past Bob McNamara for the score was 7-7 and the game
weekend for the Notre Dame 

Irish were leading 6-0. 40-!Slead. his first collegiate goal and a three went into a 10-minute sudden
hockey team as they tied Ferris 

However, Chicago got back into The Lady Flames could not get goal lead for the Bulldogs. death overtime period. 
State College 7-7 and then lost 7-5 the game as Notre Dame got a little any closer. in their weekend series in Big The Irish had to go to work. It was a tense and exciting 10 sloppy. A Jo Ellen Swanson "We calmed a lot and we were At 6:21, Chapman took a hard minutes as the Irish effectively
Rapids, Mich. 

jumper brought UIC to within two working together," explained slapshot that Bulldog goalie Norm penetrated the Ferris State zone and
Friday night's game was a seesaw 

points, 10-8, at the 16:02 mark. Basford about the White Team's battle that ended up being Young made a good stick save on. kept the puck at the Bulldog end of
a real The Flames hung tough and trailed clutch performance. "When we But defenseman Bob Thebeau the ice. 
thriller. 

only 15-11 when NOtre Dame listen to what the coach tells us to found the rebound and scored on Even though the Irish out­
Notre Dame lacked some inten­coach Mary DiStanislao decided it do, we put it together." Young. hussled Ferris State keeping the
sity in the first period, and Ferris was time for some substitutions. Basford herself played a major State was quick to take Two minutes later, a nice passing Bulldogs scoreless, they could not "They (the starting five) weren role as she led the scoring spurt. advantage of the combination between Mike Metzler connect either. When time ran out, reading the defense well,"she said. Her driving jumper ignited the and Rex Bellomy set up sophomore Notre Dame had gained its first tie
weakness. Sophomores Brent "There was just not a mental set to team and she did a good job Chapman and Sean Regan each John Deasey right in front of of the season. attack this team like we were directging the offense. Young. Deasey easily dee ked "It would have been much better
scored for the Irish, but four 

supposed to." By the time the team's went to the Bulldog goals gave Ferris State a around the goalie for his third goal to win," Lefty Smith said. "But, Hoping to find five players that locker room for halftime, the Irish 4-2 edge. of the season. I'rn glad we didn't lose." could get something going, she had extended their lead to 48-22. The tying goal came right out of The scoreboard seven points for
A much more aggressive Notre 

a hockey text book. Chapman Ferris State but it was not indica­dished Higgins a perfect pass who tive of the fine play of the Irish quickly passed to a breaking Kirt goalie, McNamara, who racked up Bjork. By putting on moves on 36 saves -seven in the overtime
~cheuth 's 18points teadlrish romp 

Young, Bjork scored the tying goal period. and sent the freshman goalie to the "Bobby was fighting himself for lockers. a while," said Smith. "But, he sure 
By MIKE RICCARDI playing a zone," said DiStanislao. "White team." The Notre Dame Senior Rob Hughston replaced came up with the big saves when he Sports Writer "It was an experiment that starters came back into the game, Young in the Bulldog net. After had to." worked." and Ruth Kaiser hit a 10-foot McNamara made several solid One other element of Friday's 
Notre Dame's impressive defen­Schueth, who has made a habit jumper, was fouled and hit the saves on Ferris State slapshots, game that will not show up on the sive play and Mary Beth Schueth's of rolling up some impressive num­three-point try to spark a eight­Chapman and Bjork found statistics sheets is the good hussling 18-point, 10-rebound evening bers -she makes the Irish in scor­point rally to reestablish control of themselves in a two-one-one job.of team captain Higgins. The
-sparked the Irish women to a 78-61 ing, rebounding, playing time and the ballgame and a 32-18 lead. situation against defenseman Rob aggressive play of Higgins during win over the University of Detroit blocks -led Notre Dame for the The Titans were unable to climb Smith. On the pass from Bjork, the overtime led the Irish domin­at theACC. fourth time this season in both back to contention. Chapman beat Smith to score his ation. 
Detroit managed to make only scoring and rebounding. "It was a chance of pace (to blow second goal of the night and give "Our team in general is playing 10 of its 26 first half shots as coach The sophomore center scored an opponent out in the first half)," the Irish a 6-5 lead. better," Higgins commented. "Our Mary DiStansilao brought Notre 12-first half points as the Irish said DiStan_islao. "Schueth played a all of the scoring of the third line is really getting it together. All Dame out in a 2-1-2 zone that the starting five of Schueth, Ruth fine game, and Ruth (Kaiser) gave period carne in the first seven the lines are a lot more settled and Lady Titans found great difficulty Kaiser, Shari Matvey, Debbi us a good first half." minutes during explosive spurts by playing better." breaking. Detroit was called for Hensley and Laura Dougherty roll­The Irish women, whose cold both teams. In Saturday's game, the Irish got one 30-second violation but the ed over the UD five to gain a 24-9 shooting was fatal in their last At 4:27, a loose puck in the off to a quick start with some hard shot clock buzzer went off four lead they would never relinquish. outing (Notre Dame only 25 of 65 Notre Dame zone was picked up by hitting and aggressive checking. times in the first half as the Irish "When you play hard and box attempts in their 71-56 loss to Rob Humphries who tied the At 2:46 of the first period, were successful in taking away the out," said Schueth, who has pulled Alabama), were red-hot Friday, score at 6-6. Chapman scored the first goal of a Titans shot selection. Most of down 63 boards in the last five hitting 31 of 52 from the floor for A minute later though, Notre Higgins rebound. Detroit's first half tries were outer­games, "the rebounds will come to a .596 percentage. Dame's Steve Bianchi dumped a When Ferris State's Rob limit heaves with little chance of you." Frontliners Kaiser (6-of-9), Thebeau rebound into the Ferris Brownlie was caught for charg­going in. Detroit was able to get a nine­Matvey (5-of-7) and Schueth State net for the 7-6lrish edge. ing, Notre Dame's Higgins and 
"They were unprepared to face point spurt DiStanislao spelled the (7-of-9) led an impressive Notre But at 6:42, the Bulldogs came our zone, because we've never come starters with an inexperiences Dame shooting effort. back to tie it once again when Paul See ICERS, page 8 
l t 

·( 








