Grant program -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 23 tht: imkpt:ntknt ~tuc.knt 

Observer pboto/Mike May 
Touchdown! 
Kathleen Juckniess exhibits championship spirit as she catches this pass on the run during a practice session with her interha//footba/1 in front ofHoly cross Hall at Saint Mary's. 

Student Senate passes resolution allowing K of C to rent building 
nt:w~papt:r ~t·n·ing notre dame and ~aint mar.··~ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27,1983 
By ELIZABETH FLOR 
News Staff 
The Student Senate passed a resolution last night allowing the Knights of Columbus to rent its space to campus organizations for social activities. 
The Knights of Columbus building is presently not being used on weekends. The administration has prohibited parties sponsored by the Knights of Columbus in the past because ofalcohol abuse and lack ofsupervision. To allow renewed use of the Knights of Columbus space, groups must observe a number of rules such as parietals. . 
Campus organizations holding parties will also have to check for Notre Dame or Saint Mary's identification, engage a supervisor such as a club adviser or the proposed Knights of Columbus chaplain, and provide Dean Roemer with notification ofthe impending party. Dorm-sponsored parties are also subject to Hall Presi­dents Council's alcohol guidelines and party rules. 
Dorms such as Lyons, Morrissey and Howard have limited party space, and the Knights ofColumbus build­ing is "probably the biggest party space on south quad," said Dave McAvoy, senator for district three. 
The head of the Knights of Columbus, Joe Anthony, supports the proposal to rent out the building's space for approximately $100 a night, which largely goes to charity. 
The Senate also passed a resolution which would al­low men to use the laundry facilities in women's dorms on a rotational basis. Each of the four women's dorms on each quad will open their laundry room one day, Monday through Thursday, from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Recognizing the shortage of laundry facilities for men, student government is using the policy with "ulterior motives," hoping to spur the administration to act upon the need for more adequate laundry facilities. 
Teresa Ross, Student Senate Executive Coordinator, has received negative response, from the Hall Presi­dents Council as well as from women's dorms, towards the resolution. The rectoresses have not shown cooperation, saying that allowing men to use their laundry rooms is an inconvenience. 
see K OF C, page 3 


Oktoberfest to feature mix of old and new; root beer garden added 
By THERESA GUARINO 
StaffReporter 
A mixture of old and new events wil highlight this year's Oktoberfest, scheduled to take place Oct. 3-7 at Saint Mary's. 
The week will feature traditional activities such as hall decorating and a beer garden, and some new ideas including hayrides and a picnic. 
Oktoberfest, under the direction of the Saint Mary's student govern­ment, has been a tradition at the Col­lege since the early 1970s. Originally started as a one-night beer garden, it gradually expanded into a series ofevents that £he entire campus, not only students over 21, could participate in. 
Events for this year include a dorm-decorating contest sponsored by the halls. Decorations will be judged Monday by several Student Activities staff members. The win­ning hall will receive a cake and half­price admission to Oktoberfest's perennial favorite, "The Sound of Oktoberfest will end Friday with Music." two new activities, a bonfire and 
A picnic is scheduled for Tuesday, hayrides from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. Hot along with organized games and en­apple cider will also be served. All tertainment. "The Sound of Music" Oktoberfest activities are open to will be shown Wednesday in the l'lotre Dame students. Haggar College Center. 
Organizers are hopeful that the The traditional beer garden is new events will make this year's Fest scheduled for Thursday from 9 p.m. 
one of the most successful yet. "I to I a.m. Admission will be S 1 and a definitely think that the turnout 21 student ID will be required. A from both Saint Mary's and Notre 
root beer garden with free admis­sion will be held in front of Regina Dame will be good," said Dunn. Hall for students under 21. Both the "After the turnout for the Five Hall beer and root beer gardens will Dance, which was non-alcholic, feature Buster Lopez, the disc jockey we're hoping for the same success at at last Saturday's Five Hall Dance in the root beer garden, especially the Haggar Center. since we'll be using the same DJ." 
"We hope that the root beer gar-"We're enthusiastic about this den will al~ev.iat.e some of the year's Oktoberfest," said Director of problems of last year (students Student Activities Ma Ann sneaking into the beer garden)," said O'Donnell. "The student o~anizers 
Oktoberfest General Chairman Mary 
Sue Dunn. "The only difference be-have really worked hard to plan ac­
tween the two will be the beer; the tivites that everyone can take part in. 
entertainment will be the exact There's something for everyone this 
same." year." 


esc brother suffers laceration in accident; student helps in aid 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
News Staff 
Holy Cross Brother Rowca Ada!· bert suffered a laceration ofthe scalp when he apparently blacked out while riding a bicycle and ran into a tree near St. Michael's Laundry yes­terday morning. 

the bicycle and glanced around" and 
saw Adalbert crash into the tree. 
Torres, a pre-med major and Army 
ROTC cadet, began to administer 
first aid at the scene. 
"At first, I was nervous," Torres 
said, "but then I calmed myself 
down." He then used CPR tech­
niques to clear Adalbert's throat. 
Norman Muller, director of St. Michael's Laundry, was informed of the accident, and he called security. ·"They were here right away," he 
said. 
Security officers Joseph Araman 
and Robert O'Brien called for an am­
bulance and helped Torres keep 
Adalbert's breathing clear. 
The ambulance arrived ap· 
proximately seven minutes later, 
minutes that "seemed to last 
forever," Torres said. Torres con· 
tinued to aid Adalbert with the 
paramedics' direction. 
Adalbert was then taken to St. 
Joseph's Hospital where his vital 
signs stabilized. He remained in in· 
see ACCIDENT, page 3 


Holy Cross chapel closed for renovations 
ByJOHN-JOHN AMORES 
News Staff 
The Holy Cross Chapel at Saint Mary's will be closed for the next few weeks for renovations which will almost double its seating capacity. 
The renovations will increase the seating capacity from 190 to 
350. In the past, temporary folding chairs have been used to seat large congregations, which Thomas Reid, director ofcampus minis­try at Saint Mary's, called both "uncomfortable and impractical." Chairs from the old Saint Mary's library will be used instead of the folding chairs. 
Sunday evening Masses will be celebrated in Regina Hall until work is completed. The chapel will reopen after midsemester break ifwork goes according to schedule, said Reid. 
It was decided to close the chapel and begin the work early in the year instead ofopening the chapel for a short period oftime and then closing it again when construction began. Other work has already been done in the chapel. The altar was moved from the west end to the south end and the chapel was repainted over the summer. 
The raised area on the west end ofthe church where the altar was previously located will be removed and recarpeted. This will level out the floor ofthe chapel and improve visibility. 
The pews will also be moved to increase seating space. On the south end ofthe chapel, another raised platform will be built for the new altar, and it will also provide room for musicians. The air con· ditioning units will be moved from behind the altar to the area below the east windows. 
The total cost of the renovation work will be approximately S2500, and the money will be taken out ofthe capital budget ofthe Saint Mary's Campus Ministry. 
The Observer 
Tuesday, September 27,1983-page 2 


'In Brief 
ComedianJoan Rivers' caustic cracks, costumes 
and a curse while co-hosting the Emmy Awards lit up the 
switchboards at several major NBC affiliates. NBC affiliates in Los 
Angeles, New York and Chicago reported 36S complaint calls by 
midday yesterday. An NBC spokesman in New York said some of 
Mis~ Rivers' comments were deleted from the West Coast showing, 
hut said the network would have no comment ahout her perfor­
mance. At one point during the show, while hantering with co-host 
Eddie Murphy, Miss Rivers noted that he is black and Catholic, while 
she is white, jewish and female. "If you had a limp we could he the 
committee appointed hy James Watt," said Miss Rivers, adding: "Is 
he an idiot." Watt has apologized for his recent remark to a business 
group that an advisory committee on coal leasing included "a hlack 
... a woman, two Jews and a cripple." When Miss Rivers asked 
Murphy how he stayed in shape, he playfully whispered in her ear. 
She shot back: "I wouldn't go near her. She gave a friend of mine 
herpes." Discussing her many dress changes, Miss Rivers said she 
appreciated how exhausting it must he to he a prostitute. One ofthe 
many gowns Miss Rivers slipped into during the Sunday night show 
had :1 neckline that plunged to her navel. After one costume change, 
Miss Rivers said three men saw her nude. One got sick, she said, and 
the others turned gay. Another dress change spurred a one word 
comment -"goddamn." "I said one 'goddamn,' but I was tense," 
Miss Rivers said later at an after-awards hall in Century City. -AP 
Continental Airlines announced it will resume 
service to 2S U.S. cities today under protection of a federal 
bankruptcy court, cutting top employees' salaries in halfand offering 
549 one-way domestic fares this week. "We are very optimistic and 
very enthusiastic about our future," Continental President Frank 
Lorenzo said at a news conference yesterday. "Now that costs are 
firmly under control, we can compete and build a Continental 
Airlines that our founders and everyone a~sociated with us can he 
proud of." On Saturday Lorenzo announced the nation's eighth­
largest airline had filed for reorganization and temporarily 
suspendt."d flights to all 78 U.S. cities it served after posting losses of 
S4..,1.9 million since January 1979. When Continental returns to 
service, it will have just 27 percent ofthe flights it had prior to filing 
its reorganization petition, Lorenzo said. Domestic service is being 
slashed hy two-thirds and only about 35 percent of the airline's 
12,000 employees will he on the job. More will be added as the 
company grows, he said. International flights were not affected by 
the filin~. -AP 
A 47-year-old Caledonia, Michigan man died when his sin~le-engine plane crashed in a field in St. joseph County during a tli~ht from Indianapolis to Grand Rapids, state poijsc said. The pilot was identified as Dwi~t Be~erow, the only occupant of the Cessna 
11:12 airplane, said radio operator Dean Blanchard ofthe state police post in White Pigeon. The plane went down sometime after II p.m. Sunday in Florence Township, ahout three miles south of Three Rivers, he said. An area resident found the wrecka~e scattered over a cornfield yesterday morning. There was no indication of a fire, and Blanchard said the cause of the crash was unknown. lnvesti~ators from the Federal Aviation Administration and National Transporta­tion Safety Board were investigating, he said. The plane left In­dianapolis at 9:0S p.m. en route to Grand Rapids, and disappeared from the radar~creen around II p.m., said an employee atthe FAA in South Bend, who declined to he identified. -AP 
Of Interest 
Frank O'Malley, one of Notre Dame's leading thinkc::rs of the 1940s and 19SOs, will he the katured suhjc::ct of a discussion this Thursday of :1 paper completed hy a history graduate student. Titled "Frank O'Malley: Thinker, Critic, Revivalist," the paper is the work of Arne Sparr, a doctoral candidate at Northland College in Ashland, Wisconsin. The discussion, sponsored hy the Charles and Marg;tret IIall Cushwa C<:nter for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism, will take place this Thursday at 4 p.m. in the library lounge of the Mt·morial Library. Copies of Sparr's paper are available at the Cushwa Center, 61·1 Memorial Library. -Tbe Obsemer 
The traveling"Works on Paper" exhibition, 
sponsored by the National Association ofSchools ofArt and Design, is making a stop at the Saint Mary's College galleries Sept. 23-0ct. 14. The show, which has appeared throughout the country during the past year, features 67 pieces done by artists from 16 colleges and universities_ The works, which include a variety of media, were selected for inclusion in the show hy a panel ofthree judgesfrom the University of South Maine. Five Saint Mary's art students had their work chosen for inclusion in the show: Catherine Gunning and Susie Vasta, 1982 graduates; Lucy Byrnes and Marianne Jones, 1983 graduates; and Theresa Bolakowski. a senior. -Tbe Observer 

Weather 
Mostly sunnytodayand warmer. High in upper 70s. Fair tonight and mild. Low in the low to mid 50s. Mostly sunny and warm tomorrow. High in the low 80s. -AP 


Why are you here? 

Now that those carefree sunny summer days have been replaced with the official weather of the fall variety, most students are seriously delving into their academic pursuits. 
First exams and papers are here. The library is filling up in the evenings. The lines in the engineering ..:om­puler lab make sunrise visits a common habit. Continu­ing to postpone that final trip to the bookstore is no longer academically economical. 
Soon mid-terms will arrive. And then the big push to December and finals. This is nothing unusual -it happens to every single class every year. 
Eventually, however, each of us has to sit down and consider why we are here and what our goals are. It is easy to lose one's path in the forest ofacademia. 
For many, getting into and arriving at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's was an end in itself. College was what naturally came after high school for most of us. What 
lies beyond these four years 
was perhaps not a considera­
tion. 
Why are you here? For many, that question is not as easy as it sounds. 
Ifyour life seems to he an endless chase for the ever­elusive ultimate GPA, per­haps you should reconsider. Most of the world (except for grad schools arid cor­porations) doesn't operate on a four-point system. 
Many people find them­selves caught up in the mainstream ofstudents who eagerly work toward the goal of the senior year inter­views, getting the big job, 
beginning the corporate lad­
der climb, and, a few years down the road, the church 
wedding and the white picket fence. 
This doesn't work for everyone however. 
If you really know why you are here and what you 
want to do after college, the battle is half won. And 
you're in the minority. 
If you are one of those lucky ones, frodflft;ere you llave to set your priorities. And, in some cases, academic methods may not be the best way. 
While abandoning classes in favor ofmore interesting 
pursuits may not be advisable (and may result in ex­
periencing the five-year plan), classes may not be the 
best ~ay to your goal 
While it's hardly news to most, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are noticably lacking in certain areas of st1.1dy. For many, this means gaining the primary experience 
for future jobs outside ofthe cla'isroom, in so-called ex­
tracurricular activities. 

Composition Editor ....... Thomas Trainer Composition Assistant... Absent for now Layout Staff................... Mike and Dwayne Typesetters ............................ Tracy and Ted News Editor............................................... Vic Copy Editor............................................ Marc Sports Copy Edlto1· ..................................Jeff Editorials Layout................................... Ken ND Day Editor..........................................Jeff Ad Design ...........................................)eannie Photographer......................................... Mike Guest Appeamnces llookies night, Iwant YOll!!, Mary, Mohy I>ick, quasi-mystical, Suzanne and mom ( via long distance) 
Quote ofthe Day It's just a dead giveaway....... 
Tlw Obeerler (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays, except dunng exam and vacahon penods TlwObMrverIS published by the students of Notre Dame ana Sa1nt Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $~.per ¥8ar ($15 per semester) by wnting Tlw Obeerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 
Tlw ObMrver IS a member of The Auocltlted Preu. All reproduction nghts are reserved 

Margaret Fosmoe 
Managing Editor 
Inside Tues 

In an atmosphere where classroom competition is al­most a varsity sport, this often leads to frustrating time conflicts. That is where priorities come in. 
Setting priorities involves sitting down to determine one's goals and establishing a balance between clas­swork and out-of-class work that will provide the best experience in the long run. 
What you may he lackin~ on your transcripts is not as important as the experience you have gained for such jobs. 
If you are certain that you want to venture into higher education or the corporate world, however, you must take the opposite approach. In this case, the almighty GPA might be your top priority. Accept it, buy a three-piece suit and cooperate. 
Ifyou find yourselfunable to answer "Why am I here?", now is the time for some serious thinking. Spending four years attempting one of the above approaches or vascillating between the two is useless. 
Don't get caught up in the rush to the business world 
unless you are really sure it is for you. Don't panic and show up at the IBM inter­views just because your roommate does. Becoming a small cog in the giant corporate wheel could mean a rather bleak life for someone. 
Setting some time aside, or even taking a year offfrom school, to explore your options is a sensible idea. Don't go into anything blind Talk to professors and profes­sionals. Get a summer job related to the fields in which you are interested. And once you make the decision, set your priorities according to the demands of that job. Rememberwhat you are aiming for is not just a diploma case, but a c:u-eer. 
Why areyou here? 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board or staff. 
******************·****************
* * 
* * 
~ Just in case you missed the first one, the Notre t! Dame Progressive Musik Club will have ~ * its second meeting on Wed., Sept. 28 in the * ~ Architecture Auditorium at 7:30 sharp. All ~ * those interested should attend. * * Rebel * * * 
* * .. 
* *
********************************** 
•
: Still Time To : : Join the Ballroom : : Dance Class : 
. 
• T"


1me ·Wednesday •
' 
• September 28, 6:30-8:00 PM : :Place· Regina Hall Basement : : Lounge on Saint Mary's •
•
• Campus 
• • Teacher-Ray Sexton from •
•

: Indianapolis 
• 
:Cost· $20 for four ~eeks • 
.~ ...; £• • 
: THIS OFFER IS LIMITED •• • • TO NOTRE DAME AND • : SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY. : 
The Observer Tuesday, September 27,1983-page 3 

$10':;z::;7:;; COUPON FOR 
TEN DOLLARS OFF 
WESTERN SKI JACKETS 
0~ 


WESTERN OR CAPEZIO BOOTS 

Wooden Indian Western Store ;50877 US 31 North 1 I 2 mUe So. Mich. line~ 
10-6 m-Th 10-8 F-S . V 
••••••o•••••••••••••••••••••••• 
The Student Union Academic Commission • presents • • An evening of M*A •s•u • with David Reiss •
•

• Film clips and slides "bound to have • you laughing in the aisles!" •
•

• Wednesday, September 28 • • 8 PM in the Library Auditorium • 
• one student will be selected to attend a • : prefecture dinner with Mr. Reiss. Please : • submit to the Student Union Academic • 
• Commission in 25 words or less why you would : : like to c1tend. • 
• Return by Tues., Sept. 27 (2nd floor LaFortune) • 
• 
• • . Accident 



Reagan to send letter to Hill 
Associated Press 
WA~HINGTON President Reagan plans to send congressional leaders a letter assuring them that they will be advised ofany change in the status ofU.S. Marines in Lebanon, sources on Capitol Hill said yester­day. 
Sources said the letter is designed to deal with a rising tide of com· plaint in Congress that the ad­ministration intends only to give lip service to a War Powers com­promise worked out with Congress. 
The compromise recognizes con­gressional authori~y to limit the commitment ofU.S. troops overseas, but authorizes the Marines to remain at their peacekeeping posts in Beirut for as long as 18 months. 
Reagan has said he will sign the resolution, but with reservations, if Congress passes it during a debate that began yesterday in the Senate. 
Grant program announced for research projects 
Special to The Observer 
The National Endowment for the Humanities has announced a new grants program for individuals un­der 21 to carry out their own non­credit humanities research projects during the summer of 1984. The Younger Scholars Program will award up to I00 grants nationally for outstanding research and writing projects in such fields as history, philosophy and the study of literature. The projects will be carried out during the summer of 1984. The application is Nov. 15, 1983. 
Award recipients will be ·ex­
,pected to work full time for nine weeks during the summer, research­ing and writing a humanities paper under the close supervision of a humanities scholar. This is not a financial aid program, and no academic credit should be sought for the projects. 
A booklet of guidelines and ap­plication instructions should be available for photocopying at the campus student placement office, or write to: Younger Scholars Guidelines, Room 426, The National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, D.C. 20506. 

enjoy yourjob and your spare time too! 
Salary 
Starts anaaally &om $17,000 and inc:reaaea aoaally to $29,000 Ia foaryeara 

QGalifications 
BSN Degree or 3 year dlplo•a wttll oneyear ofexperl-c:e. Yoa •..tbe at leaet 20 yean old bat -der35y-nold. 
Benefits SO uppaid vacation Rapid advaac:-eat Worldwide travel 
Fol' Morelafo Coatact KatltySc:aJdoa 1-880-382-9782 
Navy Represeatative on c..p...Sept 28-29 
continued/rom page 1 
tensive care last night. Further tests will be administered today to determine the extent ofthe injury. 
Dean of Student Affairs james Roemer, who arrived at the scene a few minutes later, expressed his concern for Adalbert, calling him "a valuable part of the Notre Dame community." The 70-year-old Adal· bert has been with the Physics Department for almost 40 years and retired from teaching two years ago. 
"He was coming back from the Physics Department when the acci· dent occured," said Brother Paul Kelly, Adalbert's religious superior. 
Roemer also commended Torres 

for his actions. In a letter from the University, Torres was commended for "his quick and intelligent action and concern." 
"Torres' actions were in our finest tradition," Roemer said. 
"I never expected to use my CPR skills," Torres said. "CPR is good for everyone to know." 
Said Torres, "The incident makes me want to be a doctor all the more." 
Torres was noticeably moved by the incident. Yesterday afternoon he 
·said the accident was "all he had been thinking about all day. I haven't been able to concentrate on my classes at all. I just hope he's all right." 
• • . KofC 
continuedfrom page 1 
Student Body President Brian Cal­laghan hopes to change the focus of this year's United Way drive. Some dorms that give to other charitable organizations objected to the "horse-race"· style of the campaign. Callaghan wants to eliminate the printed competition between dorms and instead publicize United Way's large contributions to com­munity needs, such as Logan Center. "A lot ofpeople do not like the cam­paign because it comes across as a hard sell," Callaghan said. 
Student government will explain the need for on-or off-campus town houses for seniors at the Board of Trustees meeting in October. Cal­laghan proposed the area past Stepan as a good location. 
Callaghan also suggested, as a 
proposal to the board, allowing businesses, such as restaurants or gift shops, to occupy the space on the end ofGreen Field. 

Another concern is an under­graduate club similar to Senior Bar. However, student government will not propose this $1.5 million project until they see if the under­graduate nights at Senior Bar are suc­cessful. Callaghan said that the issues of financial aid and the computer system ought to be raised again. 
Last week, a group of students from both student government and the World Hunger Coalition met with the Nestle Corporation. Al­though Nestle has changed its marketing policies for the better, Callaghan said, the group would like to talk to the World Health Or­ganization about the changes. A revote on the boycott will take place this spring or next fall. 
* Seniors* 
Applications for Senior Formal Committees may(oe picRecf"l 


up Monday, September 26 Through Wednesday, September 27 at LaFortune qr SMC Student Activities 

Due 5:00PM Monday, October3 

.-. '·,' -.. ..; 
; 

-'· ­

:, .;-. .::.. :·:: .-. '• -·•. . -:--· ' . 
.-;·
•,.• .·: 
. ~-.... 








~i~~~~()___i_ll__t__________________
Tu-es-da-y,_se-pt-em-be-r-27_,1_98_3__pa-ge-4 
Making sense of El Salvador 
Willie. I will tt:ll you ahc>Ut Willie. He is about fi>ur years old, short with thick, dark hair, cut close. lie has sparkling eyes, a bril­liant smile and an incredible ability to mimic English word..... Say "w;Jt<:h" and he says "watch." Say "thank you" and he says "thank 

Richard Cohen 

Richard Cohen Column 
you." But mostly what he says is "poppa" which is what he said over and over again as he hugged me around the legs. Willie is a w;ar orphan. 

I met Willie when I and ;1 crew from ABC television came ht•rt· 10 do the requisite story about war orphans. It is ;mold story, as old as war itself: But w;ar orphans really arc El Sal­vador's bumpt:r crop. Somt: of tht:m arc sold, some just die, and many roam the strct:ts ht:g­ging from pt:oplc as poor as they arc. Some, the lucky ones, managt: 10 ).:Ct hert: -here bcin~-t an orphan<I).:C run by Kenneth Myers, a pric"t from Cleveland who ti>r<I).:CS in refugee centers for kids no one wants. He wants them. 
Willie is one of these. He hurst upon me when we entered the cottage where he lives with 1.-\ other children. He lunged at me, grab­bing me around the legs, saying "poppa, pop­pa" over and over again. lie was dressed in oversized orange shorts, a white T-shirt and sandals made of aquamarine-colored plastic I picked him up and swung him over my head and instantly about 4 Of 5 other kids barrelled into me, swinging from my legs like drunks from a lamppost, all of them calling me "poppa." 
Willie attached himself to me. When I walked outside into the sun, Willie followed. "Poppa, poppa," he said. 
"No," I said more to myself than to him. "lJnfortunatt:ly, I am not your poppa." Willie smiled. "Unfortunately," he mimicked. "Unfortunately." 
I knelt down to talk to him and instantly he was in my arms, hugging me. You cannot im­agine, after dealing with nothing hut death and war, how good it feels to hold a child, 'to hug and he hugged. And so the two of us held onto each other until other kids came and they joined in. There was a girl in a yellow dress and a chunky boy and maybe one or two others. It is tough to take notes when you are being hugged by lots oflittle kids. It is tougher still to say who needed the hugging more ­me or them. 
One of the kids, an older girl named Maria 
who watches the younger children, was asked 
how she was orphaned. She said the soldiers 
came, ordered her out of the house and took 
her parents away. She never saw them again. 
She was asked what she thought of war. Her 
response was to turn away and look into the 
mountain. 
This is a depressing place. In the cities, the poor live in ravines, their one-room homes made ofcorrugated steel, the roof~ held down hy bricks and rocks. In the countryside, the homes are sometimes made of branches and twigs woven together. The better ones are adobe and brick, tile roofs, hut no running water and often no electricity. 
It is hard to he optimistic There are so many poor people, so little wealth, so much violence and a foreigner, especially the new­comer. walks on the surface ofit, confused by 
everything, scared by much ofit, asking ques­
tions to get one answer one time and a dif­
ferent answer the next time. 

A country like ours sends down experts in everything. But the truth of the matter is that in more than a decade we have not been able to rebuild Newark or Detroit and now we have come here, where the problem is so much greater, to tell the Salvadorans how it should be done. 
This is why I like Willie and, by extension, this orphanage run by Father Myers. Here the tasks are simple -keep 145 children alive. Here the goals are neat and uncomplicated by politics. 
Willie looks into my sunglasses. He sees his reflection and studies it as ifit were something else. He touches the glass tentatively and then harder and then so hard that I fear he will damage it. "Stop," I say. 
"Stop," he laughs, and then he ambled offto play with some other kids and I never saw him again. 
Willie. Let me tell you about Willie. So far, he is the only thing here I really understand. 
(c) 1983, The 'll'ublngeoo PoM Com....,­


P. 0. BoxQ Men of Notre Dame calendar /Jt•arl:'tlilor: women·~ dormitories, Walsh and Farley. In process. ferent than the nature ofthePlayboy article? r\s a km;ak. n;-l'arlq· rnidt·nt, and studt·nt otht:r words, simply put, these women Fourth, to whom would this calendar ap­And sixth, isn't it about time that Notre of till' Notrt· I>amt· t·ommunity. I am writin~-t in decided to earn money by selling 12 pictures peal? Obviously, to the 12 or so mothers ofthe Dame became known nationwide as a support of Mr. Skelly's vit'wpoint cont·erning (assuming thnc would he a poster hoy ti>r "male models" . . . hut besides that, what coeducational institution proud of both its tht· propo~t·d calt·mbr. "Tht· Mt·n of Notre each month) of men. Since the mt:n in tht: audience is Walsh and Farley Halls trying to male and female students? Would we want it Dame." l'ir~t of all. I would likt' to question photo~ must appeal to the consumer for the reach? Would the people who bought the any other way? why th1.· idt·a of a unitlul'ly male call'ndar was calendar 10 set:, it is in the hcst interests ofthe calendar look at each picture and think, "Gee, I do not wish to lahelthe women ofthe two t•n:·n brought up. In an a~-tc wht·rt· sexual dis· two dormitories to pick men that <Ire i wonder what type of ;a person that man is, if dormitories as sexist, or prejudiced. I wish in­nimination b of ~uc.:h t:onl't'rn that tht· leader "saleable." Does the university wish to put its he is nice, ifhe is friendly, concerned, smart." stead to encourage them to consider another of a conuniltl't' of ~-troup b no longer I.' ailed a name on a fundraiser hased upon sellin~-t the More likely, a situation similar to the Gl calen­idea, a calendar entitled "The People of Notre "duirm:m" hut a "duirp1.·rson" (or some physical likenesses of its male population? Or dars of World War II would arise. Did the Dame." Swdents, faculty, administraton and variation tht-rt·of). a calt·ndar of slnglt• sex would it rather go into print as valuing other models of those calendars win fame for their staffcould he photographed at work, in volun­oricnration "'-'t·m~ archaic <Is wdl as offensive. qualitic~ of its entire student hody (social personalities? teer capacities, at home, at play. By diversify­It m;ay not appt·ar prt·judked atl1rst. hut iftwo awareness, academic.: achievement, sports Fifth, does anybody remember the uproar ing the subject matter of the models, men's dormitorit-s Wl'ft' to propose ;a strit·tly ren>rds ... ). Plt~vhoy's "College Co<>d" feature caused characters and personalities as well as the ac­femall' call'ndar. tht· dur~-tt• of"ll:m;ak as a sex Third, who would pick the "male models," when Notre Dame females were approached? tivites of individuals would he lauded -not object'' would ht· dted immedi;atdy against and why do they deem themselves qualified to Is a calendar any different? Granted, I douht their physical appearances. If Farley and the m1.·n. Is tlwrt· a Jilkrent standard when jud~-tc applicant~? Arc not all males ;utending that the men would he photographed in the Walsh Halls were to produce this type of a nll·n arc n>nt't'rnt·J? the l'nivcrsity "Notre Dame Men." or do Far­buff hy the two dormitories, hut wouldn'tthe calendar, I, for one, might even put it on my St-cond, why was till· call'ndar propost:d? As Icy and Walsh women know of some special women of the two halls capitalize on the Christmas list. I undnstand it. the ide;a was thought of as a qualitkation that limits this title. If they do, physic;ll appearance of individuals of the op­mean~ of fundraising li>r tla· activities of two perhaps they should he in on the admissions posite sex to make money? Is this so very dif-Robin Brown  




------=---_Ihe~ Obset:ver== 
/lox{!. Vf•lrt• I Jame. 1\ -16 'i 'ifl I.!I '.J) .!J'.J 5JOJ 
llw ( '"-~l.,..l'l'r 1s rlw uulqwndent n~.·w~papt·r puhhshnl In the ~tudclll~ of rht• llni­\Trsif\· ol Notn· I>anil' du l.ac and s;Jilll \Lin·, Collt·g~.· II does noI llt'<Tssanh· rdkct tht· pohut·s ol till' adnun•...trauon ol t'itlll'r •nstilllllon Tht· llt'W' is reportt·c.l as a~.­··uratd\· anti .Js ohjt'l'II\TI\' a" 11<"sibk l n...ignnleditonab rcpn·~enl tht· opinon of a nurorit\· of till' hhton.aiBoard ( :ommt·nrari~.·s. lt-tH·rs. and the lnsidt· <·olumn pn·st·nr lht· \'ll'W' of thnr author' <:olumn sp;11.T as a• ;ulahk to .allnu·mhers uttlll' n•mmunit\·. and tht· lrt'l' l'XJlH'"ion of ,·,an ing opanion" on~.·ampus. through ll'llt-rs. is t·ncouragnl 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Edilor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic  
Managing Edilor . ............ Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager ............... Daniel O'Hare  
Execulive Edilor . ................ Paul McGinn  Con/roller . ...................... Alex Szilvas  
N~ws Edilor . ................ Bob Vonderheide  Advenising Manager . ..............  Chris Owen  
News Edilor . ................. Mark Worscheh  Composition Manager . ........  Suzauuc i..a Croix  
Saint Mary's Edilor . .......... Anne Monasryrski  Circulalion Manager . ............. Mark Miollo  
Fea/ures Edilo~ . ............ ,,. . Sarah 1-;!amil!oll  SySiem Manager  ............... Kevin Williams  
Pho10Ediwr  .............. :·.~  ~-.  Scon Bower  
SfJurls /:'d itur ...  \1 ichael Sulli.-an  _  

Founded November 3, 1966 

Sports Briefs 
Interhall cross country registration will close tomorrow, September 28. To register call 239-6IOO. -The Ob· server 
Rich Hunter, Notre Dame soccer coach, will be the featured guest on SpeakingofSports tonight at I 0 p.m. on WSND-AM 
64. If you have any questions or comments, call 239-6400. -The Observer 
Ameeting for theWindsurfing Clubwill 
be held this Friday at 4 p.m. in 445 Stanford. Members should bring a proof of insurance. Those interested in learning should be prepared to make reservations. Anyone who is interested in joining the club is welcome to attend. -The Observer 
All runners, cyclists, and swimmers ­
"Century Club means fitness for everyone." Anyone interested in conducting a personal exercise program and who would like info and/or support, should come to a short meeting Thursday at 5:I5 
p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. -The Observer 
Entries are now being acceptedat the NVA 
office for the Domer 6-mile run. The run is set for October 8 at I 0 
a.m. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers and trophies to the first· place finishers in each ofsix divisions. Bring the $2 entry fee to the NVA office by October 6. -The Obseroer 
Tuesday, September 27,1983-page 5 
Turnovers give Giants 27-3 win over Packers 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.j. (AP)-It left both teams with 2-2 records A goal-line stand, Ali Haji-Sheikh's and enabled the Giants to avenge a team-record 56-yard field goal and a 27-I9 loss to Green Bay last year on wave of third-quarter turnovers by a Monday night game that signaled the Green Bay Packers gave the New the end of pro football for seven York Giants a 27-3 National Football weeks -the start of the players' League victory last night. strike. 
The goal-line stand in the second Green Bay, stonewalled when period preserved New York's 7-3 Gary Lewis failed to sweep in on a lead built on Rob Carpenter's tackle· fourth-and-I with five-and-a-half busting I4-yard run. Haji-Sheikh's minutes to go in the second quarter, booming kick made it I0-3 just was limited to Jan Stenerud's 20­before the half, then three fumbles yard field goal that opened the and an interception on Green Bay's scoring iil the first period. first four possessions of the third Dickey, throwing often and long period wrought havoc with the Pack but only occasionally finding his attack and helped New York roll up speedy receivers, James Lofton and 
17 more points. JohnJefferson, hit I6 of28 passes for 
Terry Jackson picked up Eddie 283 yards but was sacked three Lee Ivery's fumble on one bounce times. He could move Green Bay and sprinted 35 yards for a touch-close to -.but not into -the end down I :49 into the decisive third zone. period, Haji-Sheikh's 32-yard field That roused the Giants' offense, goal followed quarterback Lynn which steadily pounded the ball out Dickey's fumble, and Giants' quar-to the Green Bay 36-yard line. Brun­terback Scott Brunner passed 27 ner was sacked for three yards and yards to Earnest Gray for the score with nine seconds to go in the half, it that capped the Giants' biggest quar· appeared New York was out offield· ter ofthe season. goal range. 
• 
• • • Cup 
continuedfrom page 8 
with her celebrated winged keel that syndicate head Alan Bond said now will be unveiled in public tomorrow for the first time. 
The Aussies beat Liberty despite Conner's decision to remove 924 pounds oflead ballast in a search for speed to offset the Aussie edge in light winds. He guessed right on the winds, which blew southerly at 8 knots, but it did him no good. 
Instead of being the first U.S. skip· per in 46 years to win the Cup twice in a row, the 4I-year old drapery manufacturer from San Diego is the first ever to lose it for the United States. 
The Australians now are expected to defend the Cup against the United States and other countries in I986. 
The fiesty, 47-year-old Bond, whose turbulent pursuit of the "Auld Mug" paid off after SI6 mil· lion and four tries, said he will not go to the New York Yacht Club's Man· hattan mansion to pick up the Cup today because his crew is com­mitted to a filming session. Instead, he said he will send a messenger. 
• • Harriers 

NVAwill be sponsoringa horseback riding trip at 
Sundance Stables in Mishawaka on Sunday, October 2. To reserve a 
time, bring-the S5 registration fee to the NVA office by Thursday. ­
The Obseroer 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club was very busy this 
past weekend, as two teams travelled to two different regattas. Tom 
Fink, Dan Dressel, and Barb Blanchette raced in the M.C.S.A. Sloop 
Championships in Detroit, finishing in fourth place. The second 
team ofBrian Rieck, Pete Sobol, Paul Kramer,Jim Gillies and Priscil&aiJ· Karle raced in the Kent State (Ohio) Black Squirrel Regatta. The "A" Division was close and ND-SMC came in second place due to a protest. The "B" Division was also close and ND-SMC finished in second again, this time by two points. Overall, ND-SMC finished second in the regatta. -The Observer 
continuedfrom page 8 

To thwart the Wildcat, the now smaller Notre Dame pack of runners employed a quite effective tech­nique. Depending on who felt the strongest at a particular point in the race, that runner would assume the lead and pick up the pace. 
In other words, when Caron would get tired of leading the pack, Juba w t ould take over. When he became tired, Dillon would assume the front spot, and so on. 
Unable to defend himself against this type ofphysical and psychologi­cal warfare, the Northwestern run­ner fell off the pace. He then watched the leading pack of four Irish runners from a distance of 60· yards back as they crossed the finish line together in 24:42. 
After Northwestern's top man finished in fifth, Tyler and Courtney finished sixth and seventh, respectively. 
John Adams and Craig Maxfield also ran competitive races. Adams came in eleventh place, while Max· field finished twelfth. 
Mike Collins, an outstanding freshman who was Notre Dame's fifth man at Ohio State, hurt his leg and did not compete. 
Coach Piane expressed his opinions on the race. 
"We had a pretty good week of training but I didn't think we'd win that big. And our guys can even run faster. I'll guarantee it." 
"We weren't a hundred-percent going into the r~ 'said Juba. "Ralph (Caron) was fighting a cold," he continued, "and I tore some car· tilage in my chest." 
At this point it is very difficult to say just how good this cross country team is. In any case, injuries do not stop them. 
It is apparent that in team com· petition the whole is greater than the sum ofits parts. Anyone who has seen Notre Dame cross country would know this. 
This week, the team is looking toward the National Catholic Meet, which will be held at 4 p.m. Friday on Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish contingent is aiming to up· set pre-race favorite Marquette. 
Anyone who thinks that team spirit has been rendered extinct should attend the meet. 
The Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per




Classifieds 
seven characters, per day . 

NOTICES  ....__w_A_N_TE_o~\  IL--_FO_R....,....-SA_LE~  MUST HAVE USC TIX·-MONEY NO OBJECT··NEED UP TO SIX GAS. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME.  Need Non-student tickets to NO vs USC. Call collect. !312) 565-5959 x2013 or x2233.  NEEDED Rehearsal Accompanist for FIDDLER ON THE ROOF. Contact Lrnda Carvalho at 284·5311 or Mary Stevens at  
239·7757.  
HAVE  PITT TIX NEED PENN ST TIX  
TYPING AVAILABLE· 267-4082. Freshmen· Interested 1n MexiCO? ln­lormational meetrng for Foreign Study Program rn Mexico C~y-Tues.. Sept. 27 7 ·30 pm at Center for Social Concerns. FIVE FOOT TWO & TALLER. SIZE 9 & SMALLER. OPPORTUNITY TO MODEL FOR PROFESSIONAL HAIR FASHION SHOW ON OCT 2 & 3. PRELIMINARY INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, SEPT. 30. AT MARRIOTT HOTEL. 7 P.M. ASK FOR LAMAUR. jLOST/FOUND I  Need three seniors to do 1n-home solar sales. Any sales experience helpful. One or two appts. per evening, 5 days week or less, possibly Sat. or Sun. Very possible to earn in excess of $700 per week with jus1 two sales. Call Rick at 232·1800. WANTED· Head Football Coach Apply at the Dome RIDE NEEDED.U OF ICCHAMPAIN). LEAVE 9/30 RETURN 10/2. WILL SHARE COSTS. KEN 3465  Couch, charr, T.V .. for sale, CHEAP! 272­3605. GUITAR 12·string acoustic. S175 -Gary 232·0550. EXOTIC PETS -snakes. lizards, turtles. tarantulae. amphibians, birds, mam­mals. Lllrgelll selection In U.S. llld­-st Reptile, 1520 Mishawaka Ave., 232-2095. For Sale·NEW Wilson Staff rrons ...$350 Call Larry ... 1638 COMPUTER Almost New COMMODOR 64 w/ Cass. $175 or bes1 offer. Call Fred 1145  NEED USC GA'S NOW--CALL CHRIS AT234-7279 HELP A RICH friend is in desperate need oltwo PITTSBURGH GA'a. Please help an old friend out of a jam by calling Sari at 277­1326. You will be richly rewarded. NEED USC GA AND STUD TIX CALL JOHN 1652 HEY DUDES I HAVE 2 PITI GA'S THAT I AM WILLING TO TRADE FOR 2 USC GA'S. I AM ALSO LOOKING FOR 1 MORE USC GA. IF INTERESTED CALL  CALL 1796 NEED PITTTIX, STUD'S OR GA'S CALL 1796 Need NAVY GA's x1695 Need 2 USC GA's and 1 student ticket! II Call Don at 266-7273. PERSONALS  Thank you St. Jude for prayers answered· OJ BEEDS-you were rrghl. ~ rs hrs lault. NL OH,GOD OH,GOD OH,GOD Thursday, Sept. 29 Carroll Hall SMC S1 admrssron SHU LA FEVER! To Chrcago and points west At 6 34 a.m., sometimes I wonder whether the climb  
LOST­BLACK CANON SNAPPY 20 CAMERA AT GREEN FIELD ON SAT., SEPT. 17. REWARD. CALL CYNTHIA AT 234-9456.  Needed· Rehearsal Accompanrst for FlO· OLEA ON THE ROOF. Contact Linda Carvalho at 284·5311 or Mary Stevens at 239-7757.  TICKETS  BRIAN AT 1165 NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC AND/OR PITT OR AIR FORCE. CALLJIM AT 1501  CAMBRIDGE DIET PLAN -meetrngs. personahzed couseling, FREE! Cambridge Center, 256-5400. Clip this ad  wasworthrt.  WHY?  
LOST: GOLF UMBRELLA, BLACK I RED WITH RED HANDLE. WAS IN BLACK COVER WHICH SAID IN WHITE LETTERS "ABERGLASS SHAFT''. CALL ANDY 1579. F0UND BEADED GOLD NECKLACE, 9/20 ON SOUTH OUAD. CALL 6584. ······································•························ FOUND· Lady's wrrstwatch rn vrcrnlty ol Bookstore. Call 6264 & rdentrfy. FOUND One grey umbrella and one grey plard wool cap. on Thursday nrght rn LaFortune. They are wa~rng lor you at the Lost and Found '" the Adm•mstrat•on Burlding  NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO COLUMBUS. OH THIS WEEKEND CALL STEVE 1516 GUITARISTS AND MALE SINGERS FOR WALSH SUNDAY MASS. PRACTICE THURS. AT 4 30. INFO CALL ANNEAT6158 NEED RIDE Prtsbrgh·Aitoona-PSU­9/29 or9/30 Share expenses Call Brran Ph 1935 Rrders Needed to U of Iowa. Iowa Crty Wkd. 9/30·10/2Call Jeff at 6417  Desperately need Penn State game trck­ets. Call Brian at 6795. OSTATE GAME. CALL SCOTT AT 1219. HELP! NEED USC T!X STUDENT OR GA PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277·4309 NEED 2 G.A. TICKETS FOR EITHER U.S.C. OR PITT GAME CALL LAURA 264-4367 HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845064 Need 10 GA's to the U.S.C. game. Will  Need 4 GA llckllla fOr USC Game. Please call OD st2n-5214. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR USC GA'S! CALL277-1326. $$ NEED MANY USC TIX $$ CALL SUE 284-5173 NEED 4 NAVY GA's. CALL STEVE AT 6079. NEED 4 TICKETS FOR NAVY.CALL TOMAT1201  for savings! Desperate isn't the word, I NEED. really NEED a trcket to the PITT game. I'm not particular, I'll take a student or GA. Please, call 1311 and offer to sell me your ticket. Will pay big bucks. GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT! ORDER A DeLICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE!! WE NOW DELIVER MON-SAT 9-12pm CALL 272­4453 I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. WILLING TO TRADE TICK­ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA'S. CALL JERRY AFTER 5 AT x1753.  Come to Stanley Kaplan OPEN HOUSE. EAT, DRINK, BE MERRY and prepare lor your future. Thursday 6· 7·30 pm at 1717 So Bend Ave. ATTN SMC WOMEN OF 326 HOLY CROSS. THE WILD WOMEN LIVE ON THE 4TH. "We're bowlbound" CORNHUSKERS FANCLUBOF NOTRE DAME stay tuned  
RIDE  NEEDED  TO  PURDUE  OR  pay any amount for trckets. They need not  
SURROUNDING AREA FOR WEEKEND  be together. Please call Dan at 1779.  Needed  2 Prtt GAs. Wrll pay any prrcer  Marned? Engaged? Search1ng for a safe.  Yo  dates.  6  am.?  snonng  at  4 30 is  
OF  9·30·63  PLEASE  HELP'  WILL  Call 7664.  healthy. effectrve and morally acceptable  rt...Tracy whrmps out at 1 30 ... pokey rn  
FOR RENT  SHARE COSTS!! CALL 297fi.'  "'Jl'""~.WAN-TEO· .TWO OR FOUR FOR USC. CALL CHRIS 6739  TICKETS  HELP!' NEED 2 USC GAS OR 3 PITT  means of planmng b1rths? Everyone 1nv1ted to learn about Natural Fam1ly Plan­ the trees at 1 31.6 students krlled rn head-on crash .. wake up any dead In·  
NEED  RIDE  OR  RIDERS  TO  GA'S! PLEA!SE CALL JIM AT 6736.  ntng on Tues. Sept. 27 at 7 pm 1n Hayes·  d1ans  lately?  thank  God  for  
COLUMBUS.  OHIO  EITHER  THIS  Willing to trade 5 !FIVE) PITT trckets for  Healey Aud. Marrred & engaged coupres  Amaco...when  the  w1nd  blows throu~h  
FURNISHED  HOUSE CLOSE  TO NO  WEEKEND OR  NEXT CALL FITZ AT  ONLY 4 !FOUR) USC trckets. Call 1723  Need IMMEDIATELY 2-4 GA's lor Any  call237-7401 to register for class starttnCI  your  hatr .. How  could  we  have  more  
2773604  234·5357  Ask forKev.  Home Game Call Pete 1224  Wed. Sept 28 on campus  tun?  We H n wrly  

The Observer Tuesday, September 27,1983-page 6 
continuedfrom page 8 
13-yard screen to Bell and followed 
that up with a 16-yard toss 
downfield to classmate Alonzo Jef­
ferson. 
When the drive stalled, another missed field goal attempt once again failed to put points on the board for the lrbh. 
Overcoming sacks and penalties on his final possession, Beuerlein's poise and ability to come through in clutch situations was showcased on national television. He had already ran for one first down on a third and long situation, and passed for a first down on another. 

Steve Beuerlein 
In this series he would convert three third-down and two fourth­down situations into first downs while passing for 81 yards in the drive against the first-team Miami defense. 
On a fourth-and-five from the Notre Dame 25-yard line Beuerlein completed a nine-yard pass to Joe Howard to keep the drive alive. On a third-and-three, Beuerlein ran the 
ball himself for five yards. After a penalty and a sack, Beuerlein made perhaps the play of the game on a fourth-and-18 situation when he drilled a bullet to Milt Jackson 21­yards downfield between two Hur­ricane defenders. 
Two plays later Beuerleln came through under pressure again when 
O.C.S. CAN HELP YOU BRING OUT THE LEADER IN YOU. 
Army Officer Candidate School (O.C.S.) is a 14-week challenge that will make you dig deep inside yourself for mental and physical toughness. For stamina and courage. 
It isn't easy. But you'll discover what's Inside you. You'll know you have what it takes to lead. You'll come out a trim, U1 commissioned officer in the Army, ready to exercise leadership skills civilian companies put a premium on. 
If you're about to get your degree In engineering or science, it could be your next science should be 
o.c.s. 
Call your Army Recruiter. SGT Jones 234·4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
. Beuerlein 
he fired a 25-yard pass to Alvin Mil­ler on a third-and-19 situation. 
Beuerlein converted another third­
down situation as he took the team 
to the Miami four-yard line, but the 
drive finally stalled when he was 
sacked on fourth down. Still, it was a 
performance that earned the 
plaudits of coaches, players, and 
viewers alike. And it was one that in­
evitably led to comparisons. 
"People have mentioned to me that the last quarterback to wear number seven at Notre Dame was Joe Theismann," chuckles Beuer­lein. 
But if one watched closely, Beuer­lein does seem to possess not only the poise on the field ofTheismann, but many ofthe physical traits. Same lithe figure. Same youthful choir-boy face. Same well-groomed blond hair. 
"Same big nose," cracks Beuer­lein. 
"I wore number seven in high 
school too, so I consider it my num­
ber, not anyone else's. I want to 
make my own name here." 
He got offto a good start last Satur­. day, but realizes that it may be 
unwise to pressure himself into any­
thing to soon. 
"My first goal this year was to feel 
comfortable with the system," says 
Beuerlein, "and then I sort of set a 
second goal within myself to be the 
top back-up quarterback by the end 
of the year. I do have great con­
fidence in the system. Blair and the 
coaches have just been super in helping me out, but I've got a lot more to team. I just want to con­tinue to grow and develop well as a quarterback here this year." 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Bob Forsch 
pitched the second no-hitter of his 
career and the first in the National 
League in exactly two years, giving 
the St. Louis Cardinals a 3-0 victory 
over the Montreal Expos last night. 
The Expos, who were mathemati­
cally eliminated from the NL east 
pennant race yesterday afternoon 
when Philadelphia beat Chicago 5-2, 
came close to getting a hit only 
once. 
Tim Raines hit a long drive to left­
center that Cards' center fielder 
Willie McGee caught after a long 
run. Raines also hit a warning-track 
tly ball in the seventh that easily was 
caught by David Green in right field. 
Forsch retired the first five batters 
before hitting Gary Carter in the left 
arm in the second. St. Louis second 
baseman Ken Oberkfell then booted 
Chris Speier's grounder, allowing 
Carter to move to third, but Forsch 
got the first of his six strikeouts to 
end the inning. 
Then Forsch retired the final 21 
Expos to complete the no-hitter, I 
matching his performance of April 
16, 1978, when he whitewashed 
Philadelphia 5-0. 
The last NL no-hitter was Nolan 
Ryan's ecord fifth, Sept. 26, 1981, a 
5-0 victory for Houston over the Los 
Angeles Dodgers in the Astrodome. 
It was the second no-hitter of the 
season in the major leagues. Dave 
Righetti of the New York Yankees 
pitched the first July 4 at Yankee 
Stadium, 4-0 against the Boston Red Sox. 
In the ninth, Forsch, 9-12, struck out pinch-hitter Terry Crowley, who argued after the called third 
Second of career 

Bob Forsch no-hits Expos 

$$ WANTED $$ 
USCvs.ND OOTBALL TICKET 
strike on a 2-2 count. Then Terry 
Francona flied out routinely to 
Green and Manny Trillo made the 
final out on a grounder to Oberkfell, 
who moved to third base in the 
eighth inning. 
The crowd of 12,457, the third­
smallest of the season in St. Louis' 
Busch Stadium, cheered loudly all 
through the ninth and gave Forsch a 
standing ovation when Trillo was 
retired. 
Forsch also is half of the only brother combination in the major leagues to have a no-hitter. His brother Ken, now with California, pitched a no-hitter on Opening Day in 1979 for Houston against Atlanta. 
St. Louis scored all its runs in the fifth inning. After Green led off with a walk, Jim Aducci grounded out and Ozzie Smith ripped an RBI single up the middle. 

Smith took second on the throw to the plate, and Lonnie Smith followed with a run-scoring double. 
Oberkfell  walked  and  McGee  
capped the  uprising with  an  RBI  
single to right.  

The Cardinal runs came off Montreal starter Steve Rogers, 17­12, who suffered his fourth loss in his last five decisions. 
Montreal pitcher Dan Schatzeder, who started the sixth, was ejected af­ter hitting Andy Van Slyke. The ejec­tion was automatic, because Wendelstedt had issued the pre­vious warning. 

Music By "Dewan" 
10PM-3AM 

Go Irish! Beat Colorado!!! 



needs a Day Editor. This is a paid position requiring one free afternoon per week. Experience is required. Call Dave at 239·5303 before Tuesday at 6 PM 
II 
I • I
~-------------·-------------------------,
! 

;,TMAN  J  
ns  Pre-recorded Music Service for your  -o  
C/J  Wedding-Reunion-Dance· Party  Ill  
-g  Anniversary.  ~  
n1  Dance non stop to original  (J)  
a.  SO's, 60'1. 70's and SO's hits  Ill  

0 ReiiSOnable rates ~




I J.
lHOMJEGIER 2118-1354

(21~) 481-7079 
·------------------------------------­

Attention Juniors 

is seeking a Student -... ­
An organizational meeting will be held

Representative to the Academic Council. Thursday, Sept. 29th at 6:00pm in 

Interested Students LaFortune Little Theatre for all those should submit a short interested in working on the Executive letter of application .. -:-..1',---. . / 
-......,•••mittee for Junior Parent's Weekend. 


to the Dean's office, 229 Niewl$1d, by Wednesday, Sept. 28. Open to~ll Collegfe of Science students. For more Info contact DeaA's Office. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
: Shakespeare's : 
t lt 



: KING HENRY V 
t  t  
t  •  
f f  Starring LAURENCE OLIVIER --No Admission Charge-­ f f  
t  t  


L_~.:~~-------~~~·-_1 

I 
1111111111 t. 
Notre o-n. 
ROLLING STONES 
IN Chatauqua 
I:~ 
Student: Union 
I 
I I 
I 
L ..... I 
......... I I 


LOVERBOY LO'I.I'ERY· 
Thursday, Sept. 29, Nazz--3:00 CONCERT: October 29 All Seats $11.50 
You must bring money to lottery to purchase tickets 
* KANSAS CONCERT NOV. 3 * LOTfERY OCT. 6 

S11.50 I $10.50 





~4(Jt~C3L~--------------------------------------•T•u•e•s•d-ay_,_s_e_p.te•m•b•e•r•2•7•'·1-98·3----p-ag_e
__7_ 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 

~--~----------~ 
;:U£P.t; Yr1J HfW(i; ~Ci-!EJ1 1H€ IMIN C.OMP\ITER AT lHE. NAllONAI.. 51RAT£61C Ci'f.ftN~ C£N7ER 
co~ sro~C£ 

5HAU. W£ 
IN COUJRIWO. FURTIU Afl£S5 
APPROV£1?. GRWlNGS, 
PIE.C£ 0' 1?!15T MOSCOW? 

OOHIBIW Wt1HOIJT 51'€LIAt... 
MR. PRE:SIJ?ENT. 

CAKE:. 


Ht&H-W/a (.(){;>£ 5eQUf.NC£. 

Fate Photius 

r 1'1EAN · NOW~VS 
WHEN DoM£Rs

sur You mow
SoM( JewS (ItT PoKK. 
MAK£ FUN Of N6rR£
THIN6S HIN£

AHO Jllf16T'S 5A'I HELLO 
1)1111£ FOOT'Mt..L..

1D ()/tiE NmHEK IN 1H£ LIQUDJ? STIJK£ 
I 


Aspirin Man David). Adams 


r CALL rr: THE 
WNiNA SEE I.T AGAIN? l CHESHIRE SIOEkiCK. 

\ ! 
~ 
r ~INK ru. I 
.I WAIT FM T}l[ .,j 
l f10YIE. 
i


ACROSS 32 Acting 1 Ancient parts Irani 33 Sword hilts 5 Roles 36 Mall

The Daily Crossword 
10 Hair-do letters 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All A Reserved 
14 Holly tree 37 Puts down 15 Habituate 38 Austin's 16 Sloe state 17 Insect trap 39 Silvers or 19 Warcorr• Harris 
spondent 40 US execu· 20 Acquiesce tive agcy. 21 Critic 41 Huzzah 23 Printing 42 Short 
term surplice 25 French 43 Soul river 45 Appetizer 
26 Scrimmage and entree line blun· 47 Approaches der 49 Redact 
29 Bare 50 Santa's cultist sleigh team 

Monday's Solution 
LAD-CAD I s•SALT 8 L EID. A 8 A S E. E D I E 
SAL E. N AD I R ~CAME 
•siLENTASAT 8 1-E L E e•• G E S L A S T E D"W'S A L A D 
A S H E N liiM'lA L I • S
I 

As ADD 0 R L 
I
.CLIP.HORDE H I L E•L I C K E D I A-CANT­ETA SIAM 0 US E 
CULM• I NONE.R!!!MP R A L E • C 0 L 10 N. N AM E IDEA.ANENT •• RAT 
9/27/83 9/27/83 

Canlpus 
•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, SPSSx for SPSS Users, II5 Computing Center 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Enhanced Oil Recovery . Transport Phenomena and Optimal Control," Prof. 

W. 
Fred Ramirez, University of Colorado, Sponsored by 256 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Colloquium, "A Technical Word Processor For Personal Computers," Prof James Milgram, Stanford University, II5 CCMB 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "Charlie is My Darling," and "Stones in the Park," LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by Undergraduate Club 

•7 
and 9:20 p.m. -Shakeseare Film Series, "King Henry V," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by College ofArts and Letters 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "An Introduction to Natural Family Planning," Mr. and Mrs. Tim Fulnecky, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation/Reception, for ME, MEIO, and CHE seniors, Alumni Room, Morris Inn 

•7:I5 
p.m. -Meeting and Talk, Patricia Fin· negan on Microcomputers, also movie: "Fly High, Fly Proud A Career in Sales," 303 Haggar College Center, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Collegiate Chapter ofAmerican Marketing Association 

•7:30 
p.m. -Presentation/Reception,for CAPP Seniors, Alumni Room, Morris Inn 

•7:30 
p.m.-Pax Christi General Meeting, 124 Center for Social Concerns 

•9 
p.m.-Coffee house/entertainment, Coffee House Opening Night, Haggar College Center, Sponsored by SMC Student Government, Free 


TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 ATeam Z2 The Mississippi Z8 Just our tuck 34 NOVA 
7:30p.m. Z8 Happy Days 
8:00p.m. 16 Remington Steele zz Tuesday Night Movi~ Z8 Three's Company 34 Lifelin~ 
9p.m. 16 Uve and in Person 28 Hart to Hart 34 Numero Uno 


Far Side 
'I-Z7 
"Say ... YOU'RE not Bob! ... You look like him, but you're certainly not him!" 
53 Provldean 
opportunity 57 Work units 58 Seaplane 60 Nameln 
tennis '61 Sharlfand Bradley 62 Venetian 
coin 63 NYteam 64 Indian 
princess 65 Israeli airline 
DOWN 1 Do,re -, sol... 
2 Building wings 3 Tunisian 
rulers 4 Overages 5 Pockmarked 6 Veryold: 
abbr. 
7 German industrial region 
& Baobab and ipil . 
9 Domestics 10 Attach 11 Certain 
boxers 12 Golden or slide 13 Hebrew dry measure 
18 Those 
against 22 Debtor's 
notes 24 Giggle 26 Shlpdeck 27 Froths 
28 Financially unsound 30 Feeling of malice 
31 Indian weights 34 Chopping tool 35 Something 
ridiculous 38 Ergo 39 That can 
be carried 41 African country 42 Giving a 
signal to 44 Perfumes 46 Danish 
seaport 48 Alabama 
50 Paper 
quantity 51 Gaelic 52 O'Neal the 
actor 54 Seethe 55 Zhivago's 
love 56 And abbr. 59 Choler 



By lOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
On a night when Notre Dame 
football fortunes themselves 
became dark, at least one shining ray 
of hope burst through. 
Freshman quarterback Steve 
Beuerlein, showing amazing poise 
and great potential, became the 
youngest Notre Dame recipient of 
the Chevrolet "Most Valuable 
Player" award that is presented on 
national telecasts. 
Although Beuerlein played in only three of the Irish possessions, the team put together drives of 72, 44, and 76 yards (before losing seven yards on the final play) under his guidance. With Beuerlein at the helm, the offense registered exactly halfofthe team's 22 first downs, and also amassed 185 of the 335 total yards. In all, Beuerlein completed 13 ofhis 2 3 passes for 14 5 yards. 
It marked yet another impressive 
stride this fall for the Fullerton, Cal. 
native, who had been working with 
the second unit ever since the 
second week of practice. 

With Todd Lezon, Scott Grooms, and fellow freshman joe Felitsky all hampered or recovering from in­jury, Beuerlein has received extra tutoring in the past weeks from of­fensive coordinator and quarterback coach, Ron Hudson. 
"He's still learning," says Hudson. "By no means is he proficient yet in reading defenses and the many dif­ferent coverages that exist in college football." 
Stlll, Hudson admits that there is definitely a chance for Beuerlein to see action against Colorado since "he merits an opportunity." 
"He's got a good sense for dis­
tributing the ball to different 
receivers when one isn't open," says 
Hudson, "and he doesn't appear to 
force the football. He just needs 
repition." 

Beuerlein credits some of his present success to the drop-hack pro-style offense he says he worked with at Servite High School -which finished third in the nation last year. 
Working with some top-flight receivers, Beuerlein completed I 50 ofhis 256 pass attempts in his senior year for 2,244 yards and 21 touch­downs while garnering all-America honors. 
"Our system was pretty ad­vanced," says the 6-3, 195-pound Beuerlein. "I think it gave me a headstart. It taught us to read routes according to what the defense gave us -which is what the college game is based on. Most high schools don't 
do that."  
The  f eshman  maintains  
perspective  about his future,  
though.  

"I'vego& a, million thiRgS to learn," admits Beuerlein. "I really have to work on reading the many different coverages and on not forcing my passes. I also need to become strong­er, so I'll work out a lot during the off season in order to put on about 1 5 more pounds." 
His confidence, however, is not in doubt. Throughout the contest, Beuerlein's great poise under fire was constantly marveled at by the television announcers. 
"I do have a lot of self­confidence," says Beuerlein. "And it's important to get that confidence across to the rest of the guys in the huddle." 
That confidence and poise was evident from the moment he took the field in the Orange Bowl. 
"I wasn't really nervous," he recalls. "The coaches told me earlier in the week that I would get to play because ofthe humidity factor down there, so I was kind of prepared. I . just tried not to get excited or make any mistakes." 
Facing a third and eight situation in his first series from the Notre Dame 19-yard line, Beuerlein faded back to pass and was immediatly confronted with a strong Miami rush. He managed to scramble out of danger and pick up the first down. While still down, he was viciously speared. 
"I guess that was my initiation into college football," says Beuerlein. "I was seeing stars after that" 
It was at this point that many viewers began seeing the freshman as a potential star himself. 
The team got down to the Miami nine-yard line before missing a field goal on that first possession, but it was in the second possession that Beuerlein's talent came into greater evidence. On a third-and-18 situa­tion, Beuerlein drilled a 23-yard pass down the middle to Greg Bell. 
One play later, Beuerlein tossed a 
see BEUERLEIN, page 6 
Tuesday, September 27,1983-page 8 
Outruns Northwestern 
Cross country creates notoriety 
By DAVID ROOP point" passed the mile-mark in 4:53. 
Sports Writer This strategy was quite different At that point, the six hardly 
than the one that Plane had used looked like a mere collection of in­
Whether or not Notre Dame Foot­against Ohio State. Against OSU, he dividuals. ball has lost its mystique is had told his men to pull away from After three miles, those top six debatable. There is, however, a the Buckeye pack after two or three men (Ralph Caron, Andy Dillon, Ed 
Notre Dame team that has begun to miles. Juba, Jim Tyler, Bill Courtney, and create its own notoriety -cross Although there are a number of Tim Cannon) were still leading the country. racing strategies in cross country, race as a team. They all had crossed 
Last Saturday while the football Plane explained, "The only way to the three-mile marker together be­team was being shut out in Miami, win in cross (country) is to run in a tween 14:51 and 14:56. the cross country team nearly shut pack. If you don't, it gets very easy Then, a Northwestern runner out Northwestern, winning 16-44 for the trailing guys to become dis­decided to make a race of it By the 
(lowest score wins). couraged. By running in a pack, we four-mile mark he had passed Notre Dame Cross Country Coach hope to eliminate these mental Courtney and Tyler, and was joe Plane explained his pre-race breakdowns." attempting to overtake the other 
strategy. After the first mile of Saturday's four. 
"We hoped to stay up front all five-mile race, six blue and gold 
see HARRIERS, page 5 
race, not taking off at any particular shirts lead the pack. These front six 
Cup goes down under 
Australia II shatters U.S. reign 
NEWPORT, R.l. (AP) -Australia streets of Newport and Down Un-downwind leg and turned II won the America's Cup yesterday, <$er, where millions stayed up most homeward into the wind 21 seconds shattering 132 years of U.S. ofthe night to watch it on television. ahead. supremacy with a stunning come­All that was left was for the 37­back victory over Liberty in the It also climaxed a determined year Bertrand, a sail maker from Mel­most dramatic finish ever for comeback by skipperJohn Bertrand bourne with a degree in ocean sailing's most prestigious prize. and his crew, who fell bhind 3-1 and engineering from Massachusetts In­
The 41-second victory, the then won three straight races, the stitute of Technology, to keep in fourth-closest in Cup history, last one marking the first time a Cup front of Conner and block the wind brought to an end the longest win­series had gone as far as seven races. coming into Liberty's sails. He had ning streak in sports history. They appeared out ofit yesterday, lost the lead by not doing that early 
The Cup, first won by the as well. in the race, but he didn't repeat his schooner America in 1851 and Liberty, with Conner reading the mistake. defended 25 times since, was the on­winds correctly, held a seemingly Only three other races were ever ly international trophy never to safe 57-second lead after the fourth closer-Weatherly's 26-second vic­change hands. of six legs on the 24.3-mile course tory over Australia challenger Gretel 
Now it belongs to the Australians, on Rhode Island Sound. in 1962, 28 seconds by Australia who ended 21 years of frustration But there were nine miles to go, over U.S. defender Freedom in 1980 covering six previous challenges by and the Aussies wouldn't quit in this. and 40 seconds by defender Vigilant taking advantage ofa crucial mistake over Valkyrie II of England in 1893. by American skipper Dennis Conner Bertrand found a wind shift of his Defender Columbia also beat North­to win an unprecedented seventh own, while Conner let the ern Ireland's Shamrock II by 41 and decisive race. Australians get unobstructed air. seconds in 1901. 
The victory triggered wild The American lead -and the The victory dispelled any doubt celebrations among Aussie suppor­America's Cup -was gone. about the superiority of Australia II, ters in the spectator fleet on Rhode Australia II had outrun Liberty by 
see CUP, page 5
Island Sound, on the docks and 1 minute, 18 seconds in the 4. 5-mile 






