
NFL Standings -page 9 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1983
VOL XVIII, NO. 37 thl" indl"pl"ndl"nt studl"nt newspaper slT\ ing notre dame and saint mary's 

AI' Photo
Peace demonstration? 
West Germans protesting the scheduled deployment of these rock-throwing demonstrations. Yesterday's ofthe Pershing missile lob rocks at police outside the protests were more peaceful, as 20,000 marchers 
U.S. military base at Bremerhaven on Satu1·day. More gathered in the Rhineland, and 4,000 more in West Her­than 200 persons were detained nationwide as a result lin. 


Contestants for 'Wheel of Fortune' to be selected from student body 
By MYCHAL SCHULZ can call the NBC studios and possib­In addition, students will not be News Staff ly appear on the show whenever allowed to skip classes in order to they are in Southern California. participate in the screening audi­The "Wheel of Fortune" will be Although nothing like this has tions, said McDonelL rolling through Notre Dame in a few happened at Notre Dame during 
McDonell said that a signup for a 
weeks and is looking to take some McDonell's tenure, he said that random drawing to participate in students with it. there have been no objections to the auditions will be held tomorrow 
On Nov. 2 NBC's popular games­students participating in the show. 
from noon until 4 p.m. in the Om­
how "Wheel of Fortune" will be at "They first called Father Van budsman Information Bar in the first 
Notre Dame looking for students in­Wolvlear (vice president for student 
floor lobby of LaFortune. 
terested in taking part in its special affairs) who gave his OK, and then 
College Week. Although 180 stu­he referred the matter to me. I saw The auditions will be conducted dents will go through the screening no problems with it since he gave it at 11:30 a.m., 5:30, 6 and 8 p.m. and process, only 3 students will be his OK" will seek out people with the talent chosen to travel to Burbank, Calif. Although the students will be and skill to compete in the game, in on Dec. 3 to participate in the show. representing Notre Dame against which participants attempt to com­
In addition, according to James teams fron Alabama, Pittsburgh, and plete words and phrases by guessing McDonell. Director of Student Ac­UCLA, neither NBC nor the Univer­letters. Call-back auditions will be tivities, I 5 or 20 students will be sity will pay the travel expenses to held on Nov. 3 to choose the lucky 
given "rainchecks". These people Burbank for the taping of the show. contestants. 

Soviet ships locked in Siberian ice 
Associated Press Merchant marine directors may "New ice is forming and merging have erred by dispatching the ships with the old mass and considerably 
MOSCOW -Massive ice floes from Pevek too late in the season or complicates the situation," he was have crushed and sunk one Soviet by failing to take into account an un­quoted as saying. "As befor..:, every­freighter and threaten 45 other ves­usually cold summer. thing depends on the weather." sels trapped in the swiftly freezing The ships set out from the port of 
Sovietskaya Rossiya, newspaper of 
East Siberian and Chukchi seas, in Pevek during the summer months the Communist Party Central Com­what could become a Soviet ship­for the annual voyage to resupply mittee, said the ice had become so ping disaster. remote Siberian outposts, taking ad­
dense that even the country'sNews that 50 ships were trapped vantage ofthe few months when the powerful nuclear-driven 
in the Northern Sea Route skirting route is relatively ice-free. But the icebreakers Leonid Brezhnev and 
northeast Siberia near the Bering Soviet press says cold weather and Lenin failed to budge it. "The ice Strait first was reported last week in shifting winds left the route clogged fields pushed by the winds are 
the government newspaper Izvestia. with ice this summer. 
becoming an impossible obstacle," It said grinding ice already had sunk It is highly unusual for the Soviet it said. 
the freighter Nina Sagaidak. but res­press to report such a crisis. Foreign Komsomolskaya Pravda quotedcuers from sister ships saved its observers in Moscow speculated the Capt. Nikolai F. lnushkin, identified 
crew and cargo. government preferred to disclose it as the most experienced in the
The official news agency Tass said before Western news agencies 
region, as saying the unpredictable
yesterday that five of the ships, found out independently. 
weather compounded the difficulty.
including the crippled and listing Komsomolskaya Pravda, freighter Kolya Myagotin, were newspaper ofthe Young Communist "We hope that eastern winds will freed yesterday, but said winds ham­League, yesterday quoted arctic widen the channel, but anyone who pered further rescue operations. shipping chief Filipp X. Polunin as has been in the arctic before knows 
It was not clear whether human saying conditions in the area were that you can't tell what will happen error was responsible for the crisis. worsening. in two hours, let alone tomorrow. 

City trick-or-treaters to prowl at St. Mary's 
By MEGAN KOREMAN with Regina to help us." News Staff "Members of the CLC will be there to organize it and keep order," 
Many South Bend ghosts and said Hoban. goblins will be running through the "There'll be lots of publicity to halls of Saint Mary's rather than the bring candy back after break. We're dark, potentially unsafe streets this sending out a CLC newsletter and Halloween. letters to RA's, and Cl.C commis­
"Trick or treating isn't that safe sioners in each dorm will talk it up in anymore, especially in under­hall councils." Hageman said. "Even priveleged neighborhoods," said ifit's small this year we hope to make Katie Hoban, co-commissioner of it a tradition so we need support." the Saint Mary's Christian Life Com­Hoban sees this as, "a trial basis mission which is sponsoring the thing for something similar at Easter event. "The students here miss out and Christmas." on the fun of Halloween and little "It's funny," she added, "Notre 
kids. It will be really good for all con­Dame dorms have their own volun­
cerned by bringing fun to the teer groups and projects but we 
campus and also being fun for the don't have those organizations." 
kids." The Christian Life Commission is 
Hoban decided to try the idea, part of the Saint Mary's student 
which originated at the University of government. Hageman said, "It 
Dayton, at Saint Mary's because "the parallels Notre Dame's CILA, only 
campus is so pretty and there are so over at Notre Dame it's not a part of 
many people here, Halloween the government." 
seemed like a good opportunity to The CLC was formed just last year. do something for the community. Hageman said that this year, "we've The kids and parents won't have to changed the structure. made it big­worry because they'll be in a nice, ger by adding officers and more supervised area." commissioners like volunteer 
The event is open to children of services." any age from the Neighborhood "It's the only Christian group on Help Study Program, Logan Center, campus. Last year was the first year it 
and NISH, said Hoban, adding that became a big interest," said "at this point the groups understand Hageman. "We try to remind people they have to provide their own and keep them aware that this is a transportation." Cara Hageman, Catholic school. We try to bring Hoban's co-commtsstoner, ex­Christianity into everyday life and plained, "There are legal troubles also grow spiritually ourselves." with driving children." The CLC also has sponsored the 
These children will trick-or-treat movie "Oh God!", a lemonade stand 
in LeMans, Holy Cross and McCand­and a freshman dinner this year, and 
less. "But," said Myriam Hickey, is in charge of organizing daily 
treasurer of the CLC, "children of Masses in the dorms. 
faculty have gone trick-or-treating in "The weeks after Break will be the 
Regina every year for years so they'll big ones for us," said Hageman. The 
keep that up and we won't go there. CLC will be sponsoring a blood 
l'loban added, "We'd like to invite drive and a donut sale as well as co­
those faculty members not involved sponsoring the Oxfam Fast. 

The Observer Thorn Bradley 
This Holy Cross player's uniform is evidence ofthe intense ac­tion in yesterday's interhall game against Cavanaugh. The Hogs won, 6-0. 

·~ .-' .. .. . "' oO ..... ~-• .._M 0 ~·. "• ..;..·. ':0 0 '• I 
r 
Monday, October 17, 1983 -·page 2 

In Brief 
Marriott Was raided during Tankard Night ·nmrsday. Iktails wt:rc skt:tchy, but according to cyewitnes..<;cs, ap­proxnnatdy :~0 snKknts were removt.'tl from the premises by In­diana State Police. The Obsenlf!r was unable to confirm whether theS(.' (X:Nms were arrestt.'tl. South Bend Police are exp<:ctt.'tl to rdea.o;e more information today.-TheObsenl(>r 
Fonner Secretary of State Henry Kissinger 
returned to the United States yesterday, speaking optimistically of pea1..-c for Central America after a hostile reception from Nicaragua. Ahiparlisan presidential commission headed hy Kissinger capped its six-day, six-nation tour with a nine-hour visit Saturday to Nicaragua, a nation closely tied to Cuba and thl· Soviet bloc. When the panel arrivl·<.l in the capital of Managua, it faced massive anti-American <.ll·monstrations and a hostile government reception. The 12­membl·r commission, set up by the Reagan administration to work out long-rangl· U.S. policy, con<.lm:te<.l its tour <.luring a week of new attacks sta)ote<.l by U.S.-backe<.! rebels in Nicaragua. On his return, Kis­singer told reporters at Andrews Air Force Base that while Central Amnica is "an area in nisis," it "also is an area ofgreat hope." He said 
the commissioners havl· agreed to meet with Nicaraguan-backe<.! gunrillas lighting in El Salvador. -AP 
Pope John Paul II yesterday canonize<.! a 20th­n·ntury Croatian monk known fi>r his work as a confessor as crowds lTkhratc<.l tht· tlfth anniversary of the pope's dcction. More than 
I00,000 touri,.,ts and pilgrims gathered under a hazy sky at St. Pct1..·r's StJuart· for the <.louhk I..Trl·mony to name tht· Capuchin Friar Bogdan :\'landic as St. l.t-opold and to comm1..·moratc John Paul's election as ht·ad of till' Roman Catholic Church on Oct. 16, ll)7H. "St. Leopold did not leaH· tht·ological or literary works behind him; he <.lid not fasdnatt· otht·rs with his nllturc," the pope said in a homily from a rnl pavilion st·t atop the wide steps ofthe square. "His greatness was clsn\'ht·rt· ..in the confessional cell. lie was a heroic servant of rtTonciliation and pcnitt·n1..-c," the pope said. -.4P 
A bus skidded offa suburban road in Calcutta, India, killing 19 passengers and injuring .36 others, police said yesterday. Tht· acd<.lt·nt otTurrcd late Saturday in this eastern Indian city. l'olicc said the injurnl had been rusht·d to two hospitals for trc:at· men! hut gaH· no furthn dt·taib. -AP 
Kenya's president Daniel Arap Moi has 
ordncd all puhlil' institution,., to stop buying dtTtric and com· putcriznl typt·writt-rs. saying that tlcvdoping countries such as Kenya are not n·ady li>r them. Such tnwwriters "do not rdkct ap· propriatt· tt-chnology and must he disnlllragt·d at the moment," the oflit·i.ll J.\.t·nya Nt·ws Agency }'l'"tnday quoll'd the S9-yt·ar-old lcadn a,., ,.,aying. -.·II' 
Described by police as "a chameleon" 
who labort·<.l at many jobs un<.lc:r many i<.lcntitit's, Jamc:s Lewis goc:s on trial today, al..·t·used of trying to exploit last year's seven Tylenol murders. Lewis is charged with attempted c:xtortion in a fe<.lc:ral in· dictment alleging that he wrote: a lettc:r <.lc:manding SI million from Johnson & Johnson, parent company of Tylenol's manufacturer, to "Slop the killing... Lt'wis' attornc:y. Michad Monico, said he'll seek a delay in the: jury trial -which should take: about a wec:k -because of the government's request Friday for additional handwriting samples from Lewis. Tile trial comes slightly more than one year after seven peoplt: in the: Chicago arc:a dit'<.l when they swallowed cyanide-lan·d Tylc:nol capsuks. No arrests have been made in the deaths. But the .37-yc:ar-ol<.l Lewis. arrested last December in New York after a library clerk recognized him from a wanted poster, had been called by the Illinois attorney genc:ral the: "prime suspc:ct" in the: deaths. -AP 
Weather · · · 
Sunny and cool today, with highs in the low 6os. Clear and cool tonight with a low in the upper 30s. Mostly sunny and cool tomorrow, with highs in the low 60s. -AP 

What's the big deal? 
Yes, Virginia, another Cap'n Crunch article:. 
But wait: ifyou are about to groan and turn the page, bc:ar with me. Before reacting with groans, perhaps we should stand back and see what it is we're groaning about. 
For those of you who have been living in Upper 
Skbovia for the past month and don't know what I'm 
talking about, let me explain. 
This is Cap'n Crunch week at Notre Dame and throughout the week, the jolly old seaman of cereal fame will be here: distributing T-shirts and loads offree: prizes to lucky individuals. Included among tht:se prizc:s arc: free trips to Ft. l.au<.lc:rdak and treasure chests tilled with prizes for a dorm and an individual. 
Of course, there'll be plenty of Cap'n Crunch cereal for everyone, too. The celebration will culminate with a Cap'n Crunch c:ating contest Friday on South Quad. 
Thc:re already has been a good deal ofpublicity about the wc:ek and there will probably be even more. More than I SO press rekases have bcc:n distributc:d to newspapers, magazines and stations around the country. 

The story even made: last is not going to suffer an wcc:k's Wall Street journal image probkm because of a and probably will appc:ar in week dc:<.licate<.l to a cerc:al. several more papers, ~:spe­The cqUlvaknt at some uni­cially since: there: will be versities is a beer-drinking many nc:ws media contest. Cap'n Crunch may rc:prescntatives on campus not be great for your teeth, <.luring the: latter part of this but it's hc:tter than beer. week covering the football If a cc:real-eating contc:st game. ( is the: best (or the worst) 
l :nfortunatcly, not that we can do to stir up na­everyone is as excited about tional controversy, if this is Cap'n Crunch week as the the most juvenile display we sophomore: class officc:rs, will show all year, then I 

the organizc:rs of the: c:vc:nt, arc. Many vit'w the: cdcbra­tion as an cxpc:nsive promo­tional tool hy Quakc:r Oats to capitalize on a potential college: markc:t. Thc:sc: pc:ople see Quaker Oats' presence: as another organization using the Notre Dame name and rc:putation. 
Othc:rs sc:e the eatingcontest as a waste offood. Final­ly, thc:rc: are those who think that the entire week is simply juvc:nik and immature and that college students should be spending their time doing more constructive things. FatherJohn Van Wolvlear, vice-president ofstu­dc:nt affairs, has been quoted as saying, "We're here to study, not to cat Cap'n Crunch." 
I think everyone: has become: a littk carried away by all this. 
Thosl' who ft'd the University's name: will be used as a promotional tool should look around and sc:c: that Notre Dame's name is usc:<.! by many companit's to at­tract attention anu make: money. (For exampk, con­sider the amount of merchandising sold nationally with "Notre Dame" or "Fighting Irish" written on it, much of 

think we have nothing to 
worry about. There: arc: 
more important things in 
the: world with which to concern ourselves. 
Observer notes._____--. 
Today marks the beginning of Cap'n Crunch week. One hundred twenty-five certificates for Cap'n Crunch T-shirts have been hidden on campus today and an equal number will be hidden each day through Thursday. These red certificates, about the size of an index card, are redeemable tonight through Thursday night from 6 to 9 in the lobby of LaFortune. Sophomore T-shirt winners will be entered in a drawing for a trip for two to Ft. l.au<.ler<.lale, and all T-shirt winners, including sophomores, will be: c:ntc:rc:d in a general drawing for a second trip for two to Florida. The: drawing will take place Friday, after the: c:ating contest. Two trc:asure chests, about the size: of small jc:wdcry boxes, have: bc:en hidden on campus and clues are posted in the dining halls and at LaFortune. 
bc:4..·ause I love you ...•• 
I
james Taylor 
I 
I
The Ob..rver (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Friday 
I and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation 
I 
penods. The Ob..rver IS published 
1
by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary·s College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($t5 per semester) by wntmg The 
I
Obeerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre 

Vic Sciulli 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Monday 


it ~nauthorized.) The administration restricted the cekbration to assure that it doesn't become a blatant commncial for the company. One event included in the original Quaker Oats proposal was Cap'n Crunch saying farewell to the students while riding a boat­shaped float during half-time of the USC game. 
You will see no commercials with Notre Dame stu­dents eating chil<.lrens' cc:real. But even if there were such commercials, would there be any rc:ason for all the: commotion? In an age when stories about college at­heletc:s on drugs and univer­sities on probation for recruiting violations are commonplace:, Notre: Daflle 
_The_Obs.eryer _ r----------------~

I INFLATION ( I 
(."ompositionl:"ditur... . .........J.P. (.ompu:iilion .·bsistant .....................Tom 


I GOTYOUI 1 
1)•pesellers ...... ....... Mi~hdk & Ni<'k Neu•s l:'tJilfJY ............................................ Tom 

1 ILCHID I Cop)• l:'ditor.... ....................................... Amy Sports Cop)' Editor ...... .......................Sully l:'ditt>rla/s Layout.................................. Tom 
I lOlLING? I ND Day lid/tor......................................... Earl .\MC Dtl)' Editor............................ Mary Ann 
We can help relieve I 
Photographer....................................... Thorn 1)-pist ...................................................... Betsy 

I some of. that pressure! 1 Guest Appearann!S Mr. PMT. Cap'n Con. traM. a happy Orioles Fan. a Dzeje~ted 
I HOWJwe will pay you I
Phillks Phan. some Sad Saints. assor<ed mut·ky· mu~ks. 

I up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I 
"And ml"? I'm iusl ~lawn mower. 
You can tell me hy the ,..ay I walk." 

I .~
It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfy 
-Geru!Sis, "/KnoU' Wbat/ Lilti!" 

reclining chairs while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA.
I 

I You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your ••
'"\X'ht:newr I !IC:'e you smiling f.lce, 
I have tu smile my!lc:lf. 

1 I
second donation within the same week...AND we will give you a 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 

A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others 
The Obeerver IS a member of 

I 1
Tues and Sat 8am-5pm
The Aaoclllted PreM. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Wed and Fri 9am-5pm
I 



~----------------~ 
free physical exam an~o~e~~ worth of free lab tests. 
I 
We Will Give You an Additional 
I 
$4 If you bring this ad with you. 1 
'r offer applicable tofirst time donors on~y!) I 
For more information call 
1 
234·601 0 or come by515 Lincolnway West I 
AMERICA~;~;~~A SYSTEMS I
I 
' l i

Tlte--Observer '. Monday, October 17,J-983"-page 3 

Observer/Pboto by Tom Bradley 

Charles Rosenberg speaks to a group ofart lovers at a presenta­tion on the famous painter Raphael at the Snite Museum on Friday. Rosenberg was pleased with the attendance, which a!'eraged about I00 persons per session. 
WOODEN INDIAN Western StOr-e Trading Post 
5AYif17 U.S. 31 No.-south Bend 
Boots 1st paWuD price-2nd pairl/2 price! Bring a friend! Sid Jackets-Leather Blazers Western Sldrts and iops Hats: Some WestemFelts $15.00 

~U1DI~n:Mon.·Thurs.10-6 
Behind Clayview Animal Clinic 

OBUD move to;increase visibility 
By TOM POWERS 
News Staff 
Ombudsman's information bar, located on the first floor of Lafortune Student Center, will make OBUD more accessible to the stu­dents, said Andy Tucker, director of 
Ombudsman. 
"We are an information and com­plaint sevice," said Tucker. "We have all the campus events that are run by the Student Government, the halls, the clubs, the classes, and the University itself all kept up to date downstairs." 
Tucker said that before the bar 
was installed "We could not be a 
centralized information service. 
With the bar, however, we are able 
to meet the foot traffic through 
Lafortune. 
When the bar arrived four weeks ago, "it was not up to the standards that we had paid for so we decided to send it back," Tucker said. The renovated bar now in use arrived ap­proximately two weeks ago. 
The bar was donated by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Lafortune to help OM ­BUDSMAN reach more students and also to "give Lafortune center a more meaningful pupose," accord­ing to Tucker. "Before the bar came, Tucker said, "people didn't know where to go with their com­plaints. With the bar we are exposed to students every day and now they can easily reach us. 
An "Information" sign will be placed over the bar, said Tucker, 
PROGRAMS 
Sponsored by the COUNSELING AND PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES CENTZR flNIVERS ITY OF NOTRE OAl'tE 

BUILDING SELF-ESTEEM: A program designed to help students identify thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that affect self-esteem, and to ~xplore and practice new ways of increasing positive feelings. 
BEGINNING DATE: Wednesday, October 19, 1983 TIME: 6:30-8:30 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: --"5__ 
RELATJ ONSH I P ENRICHMENT: A program designed to teach partners to communicate effectively and enhance their relationship by learning about exploring and practicing new skills to express their feelings in constructive ways. Both partners are required to attend. 
BEGINNING DATE: Tuesday,October 18 1983 TIME: 6:30-9:00 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: _ _::4___ 
DEVELOPING ASSERTIVE BEHAVIOR: A program designed to help students to realize the importance of assertiveness, recognize and increase assertive behaviors, and distinguish assertive responses from other behaviors. Eac;h student will have the opportunity to practice assertive behaviors· through ttae use of role play techniques. 
BEGINNING DATE: Monday, October 31, 1983 TIME: 6:00-8:00 p.m. 
NO. OF SESSIONS: --"-5~­

STRESS MANAGEMENT: This program will focus on skills to successfully deal with stress. The purpose of the group will be to help students better understand the nature of stress, how it affects them, and how they can effectively 
cope with stressful factors in their daily lives. Each student will 
be assisted in desigining his/her own stress management program to 
meet his/her own individual needs. 

BEGINNING DATE: Tuesday, November I, 1983 TIME: 3:00-5:00 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: 4 
The purpose of this group is to bring men together to examine the 
effects of being born male, the sex role expectations men have, 
the responsibilities of being male, e·xplore new ways of dealing 
with the demands made on males, to help students understand and 
clarify their own personal needs as males, and discover new ways 
of relating with others. Merrtbership is restricted to males. 
MEN'S AWARENESS GROUP: 

BEGINNING DATE: Wednesday, October 19, 1983 TIME: 7:00-8:30 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: All semester 
1 pr, 

TO ENROLL: CaU the CounseLing and PBJ1fholf?fi'ij;_aL Services Center at 2J9-?JJ6,b,et:ween 
9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Mondayl!! 'h-iday. To parftdpate in some of'the groups, you may first need to make an appointment to see the Leader. All groups have Limited enrollment, so caLL or come by soon if you are interested. 
The CounseLi"ff and PsyahoLogicaL Services Center iP located on the Jrd. f1.oor of the Student HeaZ th Center. 
¥ 

noting that in addition to the OM­to be in full capacity while keeping BUDSMAN service, students can the bar running smoothly. pick up information about activities 
"It's very easy for anyone to getfrom posters which may be hung on involved in this organization, and

the bar. "We have about 25 people 
we're always looking for people." working for us now," Tucker said, The OMBUDSMAN's number is 239­"however, we need about 40 people 0BUD. 


Pat O'Brien dies at 83 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES Actor Pat O'Brien, one of the last of the "Irish Mafia" actors who played tough guys and priests, was remembered yester­day by his fellow entertainers as a raconteur who loved jokes. 
O'Brien died Saturday at St.John's Hospital in Santa Monica of a heart attack, three days after undergoing prostate surgery. He would have been 84 next month. ­
O'Brien appeared in I I 0 movies 
over six decades, most notably the 
title role as the famed Notre Dame 
football coach in."Knute Rockne ­
All American," a film that co-starred 
Ronald Reagan as the "Gipper." 
"It's so sad," said comedian Bob Hope. "I called Pat about two weeks ago" to make arrangements for an upcoming tour. 
"We told jokes and we were laughing and he sounded great. I've worked with him a lot of times. He 
was a raconteur. He loved jokes. He was a hell ofa guy." A funeral Mass will he celebrated 
at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow at St. Martin of Tours Catholic Chun:h in Brentwood. 
O'Brien's last performance was a 
minor role in "Ragtime," a 1981 
movie that co-starred his fellow 
Irish-American actor,James Cagney. 
In the 1930s, they were dubbed the Irish Mafia -Cagney, O'Brien, Spencer Tracy, Frank McHugh and 
John Ford. Now only Cagney is left. 
Along with Knute Rockne, O'Brien's m t ost memorable roles in­cluded the portrayal ofa slum priest in "Angels with Dirty Faces," co­starring Cagney, and reporter Hildy Johnson in "The Front Page," the 1931 movie that launched his screen career. 
O'Brien worked on very few films after the 1950s, but remained busy with nightclub work, lecturing, toastmastering and summer stock. 
O'Brien and his wife of 52 years, Eloise, worked the dinner theater circuit with "On Golden Pond" until May. Their daughter. Brigid, would often join tht· producton. 


Joseph Papp's Production of Shakespeare's 

Much Ado About Nothing 
ST. JUDE 
0 Holy St. Jade, Aposde and great In wirtue and ric:h In miracles nearKinsman of Jesus 'Christ ' Faltbfallnten:essorof aD wt.o' lnwoke your special patronage In time of need. to you I have rec:oane from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to whom God bas given such gNat power, to come to 
my assistance. Help me In my present and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be Invoked Say three Our Fathers, three HaD Marys and Glorias. Fornine conse­cutive days. Publication must be promised. St. Jude pray for us and aD who lnwoke your aid. Amen. 1\men. 11fis Novena bas never 

been known to faD, I have bad my 
Monday, October 17 7:00 and 9:20p.m. Engineering Auditorium 
Free ofcharge 

1request granted. 
CALL TODAY FOR GUAIL\NTEED RESERVATIONS Clip and save this schedule for easy travel plannin&! 'n» O'Hare FromO'Hare 
LEAVE NOTRE DAME BUS 
ARRIVE SHELTER 
O'HARE 
3:15 1.m. 
6:00 1.m. 5:15 1.m. 
8:00 1.m. 7:15 1.m. 
10:00 1.m. 9:15 1.m. 
12:00 p.m. 11:15 1.m. 
2:00 p.m. 
1:15 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 3:15p.m. 
6:00 p.m. 5:15p.m. 
8:00 p.m. 
ARRIVE NOTRE DAME 
LEAVE 
BUS O'HARE 
SHELTER 
B:30 1.m. 
11:00 1.m. 
1:00 p.m. 
12:30 p.m. 
10:30 1.m. :3·00 p.m. 
2:30 p.m. 
5:00 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
7:00 p.m. 
6:30 p.m. 
9:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
1:30 1.m. 

TIMES EFFECTIVE THROUGH OCT. 30, 1983. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS AND TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT. 


The ·Observer··:· ,,, .{ Israelis protest in short-lived strike 


Associated Press shutdown came during slack hours living by 10 percent, and that of and did not seriously dislocate poor families by 12 percent. TEL AVIV, lsrad -Nearly a mil· schedules. 
But the biggest test is still to lion Israelis -70 percent of the lsrad Radio was offthe air for two come, when the stock exchange re· workforce -went on strike for two hours. 
opens. It has been closed for I0 days hours yesterday to protest govern· In the port city of Ashdod, the 
to head offa collapse of bank stocks, ment economic moves that threaten strike went on all day. the most powerful force on the to increase the cost of living by I0 The state manpower office said it 
market. percent, union officials said. would dock the pay of all state 
The stock market's problemsThe union strike was peaceful and employees who joined the strike. 

began three weeks ago after thevirtually complete, said officials of The Histadrut took action after Central Bureau of Statistics an·the llistadrut labor federation. The the government last week devalued nounced a sharp increase in theunion represents I million salaried the shekel 23 percent, hiked the foreign debt and trade deficit.

workt·rs in the public and private price of basic foodstuffs 50 percent st·ctor, or about 70 percent of the and said it would not grant the full The statistical office said the trade nation's work force. compensation that salaried Israelis deficit for the first eight months of 
In Jerusalem, the Cabinet failed to arc used to receiving for inflation. this year was S4SO million, 21 per· announce a replacement for former The increases arc expected to cent higher than the deficit for the Finance Minister Yoram Aridor, who boost the average family's cost of corresponding period of 1982. quit Thursday in the worst ~conomic crisis in the l.ikud coali· tion's six years in power. Prime Min· 

Glenn avoids premiere
istcr Yitzhak Shamir's preferred candidate, Ikputy Premier David Associated Press the movie, former astronaut John 
Levy, refused the job. 
Glenn, who is seeking the 

Workers from the government, WASUINGTON -With Mr. Right Democratic presidential nomina· municipal offitT~. stall' tdevision Stuff flying the: lead plane. Hoi· tion, stayed away. and radio, and public <:ompanies lywood's movie ahout America's 
Newsman Walter Cronkite and ac­

walked off their jobs, most bl'tween astronauts swooped into \X'ashing· tor Charlton Heston officiated at the 
l. p.m. and 4 p.m. Schools dosed ear· ton yc:stcrday to a gala opening and a 
evt'ning showing of the three-hour.

ly when teadwrs went on strike. midday air show featuring S20 million film in the KennedySom<· shops dosed. hut most store squadrons of World War 11-vintagt· Center on the edge of the Potomac.
employees arc not unionizt·d. tighter planc:s thundering above the: 
E1 AI. tht· national airline. put a Potomac River. Cronkite, who covered the U.S. tape recording on its tdephone "Tht· Right Stuff' was opening to space program from its inception, switchboard saying "We arc on ana· an audience: of film industry giants said, "There was no greater thrill tiona! strike. Pkase call back after I and Washington politicians, but one than to cover the first flight of an 
p.m." An El AI spokesman said the: of the main characters portrayed in American to orbit the Earth. " 
Stadent~anbadonforLadnAUaerlca 
pre8enta
*
* 

Central Alllerica Flbn Series
* 

* *
•* 
* * 
:"Happy Hour" 5·8pm * 
Todos Santos Cuchumatan (Guatemala)
*Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 : : 12oz. Draft..........soe : 
Mon., Oct. 10 7:00a 9:30 Centerfor SocialConcerns 
Discussion to fOllow 7:00show
* * 
: Go lrl8hl! BeatTmjan8 : 
FREE 

~...............~ 

Challenging opportunities are offered in the following areas of business management: 
• 
Finance 

• 
Contract Administration 

• 
Retail Merchandising 

• 
Food Service 


• 
Inventory Analysis and Purchasing 

• 
Transportation and Distribution 

• 
Fuel Planning and Analysis 

• 
Computer Systems 

• 
Operations Analysis 




Visit with representatives of the 0.5. Navy Supply Corps to learn how your degree in accounting, economics, business administra­tion, computer science, or engineering can prepare you for an exciting business career. 
October 19

Presentation: 

Hayes-Healy Center 6:00p.m. 
October20 Placement Office 

APPboto 
Pat O"Brien, who played Knute Rockne in the classic film "Knute Rockne-AllAmerican,"died Saturday ofa heartattack. The actor appeared in I09 otherfilms in the last 52years. 
'\o(.Jkl l~£ ~<j'"'' 1Wkn. 
C{)/WHIJNIICAilii{)N 
.~........--0llrfEAil~E 
MI()~I[)A\'/ If/Ill~\ i~ll?/1/~i 
a 
Oclober17 Citizen Kane 119411 usA D1rected by Orson Welles 8 1W 11 9 mtn -The young Orson Welles dtrccted htmsell and a bnlllant cast, tnclu<Jtng comm CA O Agnes Moorehead and Everell Sloan. tn tho tale ol !he nse and tall ot a 
&. I HUnl IIIR n newspaper mogul Wtlh mus1c by Bernard Herrmann and 
__f_A__f c1nemalography by Greg Teland 7p ._9p 
I JniVERSIIY Of nQIRf DAm£ .m. a< .m. 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission ·-.....· ---lr~u ~ 11~13/tllr, $ =? • oo 







MultipleChoice 
Don't leave your dinner to guesswork.
D 
3oz. (serving) 
Protein 12g Fat 10g 



Domino's Pizza is the best Coke available choice. Just 2 slices are 16 oz. bottles more nutritious, lower in 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.

fat and higher in protein 
Umlted delivery area. 
Cl1983 Oomlno'a Pizza. Inc.
than either a taco or 
cheeseburger. 
Nutritional information from: Table 1. Nutritional Analyses of Fast Foods. United States Agricutture Research 

us to the test. Service. 
So give us a call and put 
r··--------------------,I 
I
Mondays only. 
Only $6.99 for a 16" 
I

• 1-item pizza plus 2 .,a: 16 oz. bottles of Coke. 
$6 99 I 
I
One coupon per pizza ; Expires: 10/31/83 • 
I I
Fast, Free DellveryN 
I
1835 South Bend Ave. 
I
Plaza 23 Center 
I

: • It 
Phone: 277-2151

MI. I I 
.. ~I ~Eiti'l· ® I 
35167/2650

I I 
I I 
~----------------------~ 
TheObsener Monday, October 17, 1983 -page 5 


Reagan aides prepare official election papers 
Associated Press 
WASHIN~TON -Lacking only a formal declaration from their can­didate but workingwith his blessing, President Reagan's advisers are ftling today, 1,000 days into his first term, the documents that legally will make 
him again a presidential candidate. 
Two of the president's key ad­
visers said yesterday they were 
positive the president would seek a 
second term, despite Reagan's 
refusal to make that declaration him­
self. 
"He is going to run, and those who 
work with him on a day-to-day basis 
all feel that way," ChiefofStaffJames 
Baker said. 
"I'm 100 percent convinced the 
president will be a candidate for re­
election," said Edward Rollins, the 
presidential assistant who has been 
chosen to run the campaign. 
But, said Baker, "in his own mind" the president will not consider him­selfa candidate until he makes a for­
mal-announcement of his plans to seek a second term next year. 
Today, Sen. Paul Laxalt, R-Nev., a longtime Reagan friend who will become general chairman of the 
Reagan-Bush '84 committee, will submit to the Federal Election Com­mission the documents establishing the committee and making Reagan, legally, a candidate. 
Acting every bit the candidate, Reagan is using nearly every public opportunity to draw attention to what he sees as the economic im­provements of the past three years -a key theme to a new campaign effort, aides say. On Saturday, he said in his weekly radio address that "the quality ofAmerican life is improving again." 


Burn's Creative Costume Shop 
608 Liberty Drive, Mishawaka 
259-4807 Fulfill Your Wiidest Fantasies With Our Costumes Birthday Cake Dancing Beer Cans Leprechauns 
Sequin Gowns Spiders Sequin Jackets 
Bee

F~y 
-~· 
I
AND MANY MORE \./ 
Student Discounts Stop in to Reserve 
No Deposit with Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID 
HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 9:00am-5:00pm 
Sat. 9:00am -12:00 noon 
Extended Hours for Halloween 


Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger waves to the crowd as he and his bipartisan commission 
return from Central America. 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -One U.S. Marine was killed and three were wounded yesterday in seven hours of sniping and rocket-propelled grenade attacks on Marine positions at Beirut International Airport, spokesman Maj. Robert Jordan said. 
It was the third consecutive day of 
attacks on the Marines and raised the 
toll of Marine combat deaths to six 
since the American peacekeeping 
contingent arrived here 13 months 
ago. A seventh Marine perished 
when a mine he was attempting to 
defuse exploded. 
jordan said the Marines serving with Alpha Company at the sout­hernmost end of Beirut airport first came under fire at about 4:20 p.m. 
( 10:20 a.m. EDT) and that firing from small arms and rocket­propelled grenades continued until after 11 p.m. ( 5 p.m. EDT). 


Marines killed, injured by Beirut sniper fire 
-ACCOUNTING­SENIORS 
MAIN HURDMAN'S NOTRE DAME RECRUITING TEAM INVITES YOU TO MEET YOUR INTERVIEWER AT A STUDENT RECEPTION ON MONDAY EVENING , OCTOBER 17, 1983 IN THE ALUMNI ROOM OF THE MORRIS INN. 
SPEAKER: 
7:00 P.M. DENIS J. O'LEARY '73 
7:30 P.M. REFRESHMENTS 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS OCTOBER 18th and
M.ain~CTOBER 19th 
<~ Hurdman----
Certlled PubliC AccOUltants 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER (M/F) 
Wondering where to I

Ir-----------·----····---------·-----·-·-•
I THEHOLYCROSSASSOCIATES I
go for dinner I I
I PROGRAM IN CHILE I

Saturday I I 
I I

October22? I I I I 
I ·II
I I 
Come to Ramada's I I 
I

"After Game Buffet" I 
I 


in our beautiful Vineyard room. 
I 
There will be a delicious buffet starting at 6:30 p.m. And Live Entertainment with the popular "Britches" Band. 
From 7-11 p.m. Adults $9.95 Children $4.95 (tax Included) Buy your tickets in advance at the catering office I 
272-5220 
52890 U.S. 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 CHECK COUPON SHEET INSERTED IN SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE 
APPLICATION DEADLINE NOVEMBER 1st . 
~--------------------------------------­

Jordan said the Marines fired back with anti-tank rockets and small arms. 
He said the dead Marine suffered a head wound, one injured man had an "urgent" head injury and another was in serious condition with an arm wound. Two of the injured Marines were flown to the lwo}ima, the main 
hospital ship for the I,600-man 
American force, and the third was 
treated on shore, said jordan. 
At one point, Jordan reported that 
five Marines had been wounded, but 
he later corrected this to three. 
None of the Marines was im­
mediately identified. A total of 54 
have been wounded in the past 13 
months. 

On Friday and Saturday, snipers concentrated on the Marine posi­tions at the opposite end of the air­port. One Marine was killed and another was wounded in both legs Friday, but there were no American casualties Saturday. 
Attacks also were reported against 
Lebanese army positions on the 
mountain ridgc::Iine above the U.S. 
Marine camp, and the government­
run television said one Lebanese 
army soldier was killed by artillery 
tire from positions held by Druse 
militiamen. 
Renewed fighting was reported in 
the Kharoub region, just above the 
Israeli defense line along southern 
Lebanon's Awali River, where Chris­
tian and Druse militiamen have been 
fighting for days. 
In southern Lebanon, ·Israeli oc­cupation troops fired at a hostile crowd after a confrontation with Shiite: Moslems at a religious festival in the city of Nabatiyeh. 
Lebancsc state radio said scvcn 
people wcre wounded. The Isracli 
military command in Tel Aviv said 
none of its soldiers had woundcd 
any Lcbanese, and an invcstigation 
showed thc injuries rcsulted from an 
atmosphere of panic when the 
religious ceremony was intcrruptcd. 
An uncontlrmcd report said onc 
oftht: injured Lebanese: dit'd latcr of 
his wounds. 
There were conflicting reports on 
how the Nabatiyeh confrontation 
started, but rt:porters in the city said 
Shiites thrcw rocks and set two Is­
raeli vehicles ablaze when soldicrs 
tried to clcar a path to lct a convoy 
pass. 




Nuclear Engineers 
EARN OVER $1,000 A MONTH AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you Sl,000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation? Under a special Navy prognom we're doing jusllhal. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate· Collqe Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay during you junior and senior years, bul after graduation you'll receive a year of l'aluable araduate-level training that is not available from any other employer Ifyou are a sophomore, junior or senior with a grade point average of 3.0 and majoring in math, engin~r­lng, or physical sciences, find out more today. Let your carHr pay off while still in college. 
For more information, call the: Naval Management Programs Officer Tollf'ree 1-800-382-9782 Local (256-1455) Navy Represenlatil'e will be on campus OCT. 19~20 Placement Office 

'\. 
.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
.. l .. 

>! y. { 
Monday, October 17, 1983 -page 6 





Vieweoint 'li 
On fasting for the sake of hunger 
For many of us. today is a day of prayer and real, hut never taken out of the context of society after that. Our hungers and priorities the oppres~ed go free, share your bread, shel­fasting. We arc doing this not out of despera­basic human needs. Persons who hungered are so much more complicated. Look at our ter the poor, clothe the naked. Then your light tion -as if we had to solve the problem of had not only empty bellies, hut chained hands diet. We have a maximum number ofchoices will shine, your wound will heal. Your hunger world hunger this very day, or as if we could, and feet, bodies naked and often diseased. from 35-foot salad bars and multi-paged will be satisfied, your priorities ordered, your hut ht:causc deep in our hearts we too hunger, They were unable to shelter their families; menus. And consequently a whole industry life directed. Then the Lord will guide you and or think we ~hould. And we want to be sure they had minds that were undeveloped. They has grown up to help us lose weight, to say give you strength. Sow, and the more you sow, we hunger for the right thing.~. We also want were unloved, outcast Jesus spent a lifetime nothing about disposing of our wasted food. the more you will reap. The Lord will make to share the burden ofhunger that others feel. ministering to just such as these. We have.roo many clothes, making it very dif­sure you have enough and then some. Don't Wt· sense that we don't hunger enough. Since this is still the case in much of the ficult to choose a color-coordinated outfit look for repayment; invite to your parties world, Scripture lives on, and is important for from our wardrobe each day. We: have gone those who couldn't possibly make repayment.David Schlaver, CSC us today, even though we read it in a paradise­far beyond covering our nakedness. Then you will have gained all -you will be 
( ike setting, isolated from people and places of Our sick receive the best of care. They are numbered among the virtuous. Guest columnist the world where it might make more vivid virtually never alone, in fact may "suffer" from Then you will find that the Lord's most ex­sense to us. Thus we delve into Scripture, pray too many visitors. Our prisoners are travagant gift will be yours -His love. This is 
The fact that others hunger raises questions abou t it, build our lives around its timeless oppressed by many psychological burdens, ultimately what we all hunger for. Sometimes in ourselves and also a certain need to pray message. yet are surrounded by many lawyers and we cannot call it by name and we hunger in and fast and give what we can, to dt·monstratc Some of us, myself included, have had spe­professionals, ready to help them reenter inordinate and disconnected ways. But per­our hrotht·r-and ~istcrhood with those whose cial blessings and opportunities to live and society. haps our stomachs are so full and our bodies hunger is more real, more painful, more work among the hungry poor. Mine came in Our homes and our rooms are big, private, so covered, our hearts so divided and torn, dominating in tht'ir daily lives. The hunger of Bangladesh from 1979-19H I. There I saw first and very expensive. We have so much that we miss it We avoid His Loving touch, a 
otllt'rs is a burden on us, not ht-causc we feel hand, often with my mouth gaping, whert furniture we truck it away to storage, or let it touch the poor can feel so quickly and direct­wt· caused it or can solve it, hut because we people truly hunger, and what they suffer. It fall apart thr(>Ugh neglect. We fill our ly. The poor -and Scripture was written. as know in our hearts that it should not he, and was a wrenching experience, but also a hope­redecorated space with wrap-around sound, Good News for them -can still teach us. that we personally don't deserve all the bless­filled one. One which makes Scriprure live laughter and friends. And for virtually all ofus, May our prayer and fast today help us to un­ing.' we have. Knowing this, we fast and pray, again for me, and Christ's message as well. education is an unlimited opportunity. complicate and simplify our lives so that we to thank (iod for thesc hlt-ssing.~ and to ai;k for In Bangladesh and all of the hungry nations, Our abundance is incomparable. We can't might discover our hungers and search for guidance to better use what we have, for there is a natural priority about life. First, rice get away from it and we can't give it away. living bread to satisfy them, a bread that the otht·rs, who have so much less. is necessary, then covering for the body, some How do we learn to live with it? How can we Lord provides in abundance for all people. 
I see a number of interesting things in form ofwork, a bit ofmedicine against disease, still learn to hunger, not for more -which Scripture about hunger. The writers were sur­some minimal shelter, perhaps a bit ofeduca­often becomes the case -but for what is rounded hy truly hungry people, more so than tion. There arc no frills. Minimal expectation more important tho~t· of us who rt·ad it and interpret it today. and maximal satisfaction. Scripture is very direct, as usual. Read Isaiah Editor's note: Father David E. Schlaver is the llunger-the pangs of an empty belly-was It is hard to reenter the abundant American 'iH and Luke 14. Break the unjust fetters, let Director ofCampus Minis try at Notre Dame. 

Equating Christianity with Americanism 
There is a lady in Virginia who occasionally reminds me that since I am not a Christian I cannot he a true American. I am grateful for this service and I ust·d to respond nicely by saying, "Dear Lady, stick your head in the toilet." I have yet to hear the flushing sound that would warm my cold, t.'old ht·art. 
Richard Cohen Richard Cohen Column 
Unfortunately, the lady's letter is not an is­olated phenomenon. It is just an extreme ex­ample of the sort of thinking that equates Christianity with Americanism. To some pt·oplc, the two are one and the same and when they say Christianity they mean, of course, their own version of it which, it goes without saying, is the true one. 
Something like that is at the base ofthe Paw­tucket, R.I., cast.· now before the Supreme Court. For over 40 years. that dry has been using municipal funds to erect a Christmas nativity scene. Then several years ago, several Pawtucket citizens, joined by the American Civil Liberties Union, filed suit, saying that the usc of public funds to erect a creche was no­thing more than government sponsorhsip of religion-a violation of the Constitution. 

Two courts agreed and told Pawtucket to get out of the creche business. Now the issue is before the Supreme Court, where it has been joined by none other than the solicitor general, representing the government of the United States. Speaking in the name of all the people -believers (of all kinds) and non­believers (also of all kinds) -he rose to the occasion by taking the side of Pawtucket. Minorities have their rights, but not apparent­ly if they displease the majority. 
There is something to consider here. Not only has Pawtucket used the funds of all people to erect a religious symbol of meaning to only some of the people, but it is using those same funds to defend its position. By joining the case, the federal government has done the same thing. In spirit, although not in 
substance, this is rem1mscenr of Southern states using the tax monies of blacks to fight integration. Talk about adding insult to injury! 
In the Pawtucket case, though, there is not only insult and injury, but Philadelphia lawyering as well. Both the city and the Feds take the position that _tl;!e .~rt:che is not a religious symbol at all. It is secular. Not only is that ludicrous on the face of it and, possibly, insulting to those who take spiritual succor from it, but contradicted by the evidence. If that were the case, there would be no suit to begin with. 
Clearly, there are some people in Pawtuck­et who take the view that a Christmas-time reproduction of the nativity scene depicting the birth ofChrist is religious in nature. If the creche ofall things is not religious, then Chris­tianity has gone the way ofthe hamburger. We might as well be talking about McGod. 
The upshot is that the governmnet is telling us what is and what is not religious. It is telling Christians who know better that the creche is not what they think it is. It is tellingJews, who also know better, the same thing and it is saying the same thing to anyone else who, for any reason, is opposed to governmental sup­port of religion. This is more insulting to the Constitution than the mere erection of a creche. 

But worse than that, the government is doing in this case precisely what the Virginia lady does in her letters. It is saying that Chris­tianity and Americanism are one and the same thing -that a symbol that is clearly Christian, that depicts the birth ofChrist and is therefore 
at the core of the religion, is really like the Thanksgiving turkey or the flag. As an American, you have an obligation to support it. Either get with the program or get out. 
As state-church issues go, this case is hard! . the most profound and you can almost sym­pathize -although not agree -with the citizens ofPawtucket. But the government, by 
its specious reasoning, has proven than no one wins when the barrier between church and state is breached. Both are corrupted -the former spiritually, the latter intellectually. 


Campus comments If you could go anywhere for break, where would you go? 

To• lindley 
I'd go to Jamaica, relax on the beach to the sound of reggae music, and ·drink tropical juices. 
I'd go to Harlem's red light district I'd go to California because I miss 
so I could visit my family. my family, and because the weather 
out there is beautiful. I guess Detroit 

will have to do this year. sion. 
..ol 1· 
d-' 

Tim Fallon Therese Kramer Stuart McComas Sara Arlderlio'h hm: n DanWatzke Chemical engineering Freshman Year ofStudies Professor Nursing Marketing Classof'85 Classof'87 Aerospace t Mechanical Classof'84 Classof'85 
Engineering 

...1"·.

.. ·-*"­
\1ielYP.~O~i_n~t___________________________________________ __ __
MOrnhy_,acm_rer_17_,_19_8_3~--~---e7 




University investments in South· Africa 
P. 0. BoxQ 

Editor's note: This is the first ofa two-part series examining Notre Dame investments and South Africa. It is a follow-up toMicbael 
L. Brennan's column, "Money talks: What is Notre Dame saying?"(October 12) 
Dear Michael, 
I have read your piece on the University and 1 
its investment policies with !merest and not a 
liule nostalgia. Permit an old campaigner, a 
veteran of many struggles with Notre Dame 
over the investment issue, to offer some 
Peter W alshe 
Guest Columnist 

-· ---·---r • --------• -••­
advice on how to approach this ba'ttle. It would be a good idea for you to learn from the mistakes we made in the 1970's. Our chief mistake was that our expectations were too high; this problem, I suspect, proceeded from a certain naivete. We thought moral suasion was all it took to change University policy and have Father Zang, like a latter-day Savonarola burning the offending stocks and shares in the 
South Quad! It did not happen. 
It is, most important that you do not emer the struggle over investments as a 'child of light' dealing with the 'children of darkness', to use Niebuhr's formulation. Always bear in mind that those on the other side are benighted -not wicked. Do not expect, this time around, to make a dent in the hides of Father Zang or the University Trustees. You may have to seule for the limited achievement of simply raising the issue; this naming of the problem is not unimportant. As Cardinal Sin of 
Manilla  (who  has  confronted  President  
Marcos  of the  Phillipines)  remin ded  the  
recent  Synod  of  Bishops  in  Rome:  

'Denunciation is the name of the Gospel' was only the first stage which, with God's grace, would lead to conversion and then, evemual­ly, reconciliation. 
Try to understand those you are encounter­ing -men like Father Zang for instance. Like many middle-class Notre Dame students, you may be tempted to assume that a man of the cloth has automatically a primary commit­ment to implement the teachings ofjesus. Not a bit of it. Catholic priests, ordinary mortals 
like the rest ofus, frequently identify with the function or role that they have been assigned in whatever institution they serve. Zang is a case in poin£. I have no doubt that he is a nice enough chap; nevertheless, his identity, to a great exten£, is defined by his role as Invest­ment Officer for the University. This, in my experience, is his raison d'etre. So when you meet him, you will be less frustrated ifyou do not get your signals mixed. In Father Zang you 
are dealing with a servant ofthe University. 
The same goes for the Trustees. Remember, above all, that you are encountering people who are, perhaps unwittingly in some cases, captives of an ideology capitalism. Capitalism, like Communism, is one of the dominant religions ofour time. It is America's civil religion as Communism is the state religion ofthe Soviet Union. 
For the Trustees to be moved by your argu­ments that the University should not profit from the arms race, or from the human misery generated by the structures ofapartheid, they would first have to be converted. Disinvest­ment, or even a moritorium on further invest­ment, would be the fruit ofsuch a conversion from social sin. 
It is right that you should bang away at them, but expect the message to continue to fall on stony ground. Do not expect results ­for that is the road to disappointment and even to dispair. This caveat is particularly im­portant for Americans; being naturally op­timistic, they expect results. Try to develop some insight into your opponents. Conver­sion is a risky business and a painful process for us all. Those who are shackled by an ideol­ogy are especially burdened. That is, I think, the meaning ofjesus' special delight when he encountered the Roman Centurion's faith. 
Let me conclude with a story of a South African conversion. The Rev. Beyers Naude, a South African white and a minister in the Dutch Reformed Church (the church of the Afrikaners), was as fully committed as any creature of the state to the evil ideology of apartheid. Furthermore, he was at the very center of the Broderbond(Brotherhood: 
South Africa, like the Roman Catholic Church, is a society dominated by machismo), the secret society which controls white South African political, economic and cultural life. He was also in line to be Moderator(Head) of 
the Dutch Reformed Church. 
In 1960 Naude risked attending an inter­racial conference held at Couesloe which ex­amined apartheid in the context of the New Testament. Like St. Paul before him, the Rev. Naude underwen£ a painful and traumatic conversion. Since then he has been hounded and persecuted in a particularly virulent way by those who remain committed to apartheid. (It is always more disturbing when a member of one's own tribe or family embraces a dif­ferent faith. One way a family/tribe copes with this type of conversion is to label it traitorous.) Naude, now almost seventy, has been banned (placed under house arrest) for the past six years. Followingjesus has exacted 
a price from this man, but he 'could do not other'. 
One of Naude's last public appeals before he was banned was to urge western corpora­tions to stop investing in apartheid. 
Yours, 
Peter Walshe 

Editor's note: Peter Walsbe is a Professor of Government and International Studies. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1962. His most recent book is entitled Church versus State in South Africa. 

Bahama trip 

Dear Editor: 
In less than a week, nearly 200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors will be enjoying the sunshine in Nassau. As members of the Trip Committee, we were encouraged by the en­thusiasm shown at the Senior Bar meeting last Tuesday. 
In the past few days, financial questions have been raised concerning the trip. The cost of the Bahama trip is s41 0 per person which includes a $12.00 fee. The committee was advised last spring to charge this S12.00 ad­ministrative fee -standard practice for an event of this type. 
The purpose of the fee is to cover all 
publicity charges, a pre-trip party, group in­
curred liabilities, group subsidized events in 
the Bahamas, and partial compensation for 
each committee member's airfare. This partial 
compensation amounts to $2.50 of each stu­
dent's 12.00 fee. 
In addition, through competitive bidding, 
1st Sorce Travel Agency provided the com­
miUee members complimentary accomoda­
tions plus two free airfares. Each commiuee 
memberpaid for the balance oftheir trip cost. 
We will be happy to answer any additional 
questions regardiflg the trip. You may call any 
commiuee member or the Student Activities 
Office. 
The Bahamas Committee and Office ofStudentActivities 


Hefner speech 

DearEditor: 
I would like to comment on the October 12 
article by Paul McGinn entitled, "Playboy's 
Hefner Sparks Controversy." First, I would 
like to discuss why and how I was 
··unavailable" for comment and then set forth 
why Christie was invited to Notre Dame. 
I was unavailable for comment initially be­
cause I was involved in numerous meetings on Tuesday when Mr. McGinn called. Subse­quently I did not respond because of his very questionable tactics. As noted, when he called I was in the midst of meetings and my secretary asked who he was and the purpose ofhis call (this is common practice). 
He would not answer except to say it was "personal" and intimated that I should know him. I believe this resronse was basically dis­honest and indicate'li that he wanted to catch me offguard. In fact, if he had been honest and indicated who he was and his purpose, I would have made an extra effort to return his 
call. Because I did not know him or why he was calling, I did not feel any urgency in returning his call and, therefore, was "unavailable." I seriously question journalistic tactics like this by students at Notre Dame. 
I extended the invitation to Christie Hefner after an article entitled, "Playboy Makes the Boss's Daughter Boss," appeared in Fortune 
1 (August 23, 1982). The article concerned her appointment as President of Playboy, a firm that had been very successful but recently had suffered serious problems due to prior management practices. An obvious question was whether Ms. Hefner could turn the firm around using the large cash position provided by the sale ofsome assets. 
We generally expose our students to rousing success stories such as we did on Wednesday when Don Kelly, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Esmark talked to our students about the successful acqusi­tion and integration of Norton-Simon into Es­mark. I personally believe that one can learn at least as much from mistakes as from success, and Playboy presented an ongoing case his­
tory ofa very interestingfirm at a crucial point in its history. 
In addition, when they agreed to my idea, they also asked if it would be possible to have a more general talk on a "social" topic. While I recognized that such a talk could be much more controversial on the Notre Dame campus, I agreed to it in the spirit ofacademic freedom that should exist on every university campus. 
Such a policy certainly does not imply that we agree with the opinions and statements by all ofthe speakers on campus. It is no different than inviting the leader of the American Nazi party to address our students or allowing a presentation by a very controversial theologian. One of the major purposes of a university is to allow a full range of ideas and opinions. Obviously, it is not possible to properly examine ideas if one view prevails. 
As Father Hesburgh has said so often, a uni­versity should be a place where individuals can disagree without being disagreeable. 
Frank K Reilly, Dean Professor ofBusinessAdministration 

1;) ' ·~"l ..,.~, .t..,n _ .·. Editor's note: Monday, Mr. McGinn telephoned Dean Reilly's office and iden­tified himself as a reporter with The Ob­server. The person who answered the call told Mr. McGinn thatDean Reilly would call him back later that day. That call was never 
returned. Mr. McGinn, thinking that Dean Reilly did not want to speak about Ms. Hef­ner's appearance, called Dean Reilly again on Tuesday and told his secretary that it was a personal call, hoping to learn why Dean Reilly bad not returned his earlier call. 
DearEditor: 

Mr. McGinn was correct in saying that Ms. Hefner deserved a chance to speak. He in not accurate, however, in calling her a businesswoman. She is a businessdaughter. .Mr. McGinn's own article shows that. All of us would grow up to be corporate presidents ifour fathers were. 
The business college might have invited a woman here whose own intelligence, busi­ness skills, ambition, and drive put her at the top. 
Editorial Board Department Managers 


==Ihe_­
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic BoxQ,NotreDame,IN46556 ,1 (.!19)239-5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ............... Daniel O'Hare 
The Ohserr•er is the independent ·newspaper published by the students of the Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller.... ................... Alex Szilvas versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor .............. ... Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen the polioes of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac· News Editor . ................. ~ark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzauuc: i..a Croix curatel-y and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters. and too.I-nsldt:!(:olumn present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamil toll System Manager ......·......... Kevin Williams the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower 
Sports Editor ........: .................... ... Michael Sullivan 
and the free expression of\·arying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. Founded November 3, lllfi6 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre DaJD.e-USC gaJD.e, to be played oct. 
22, will also be shown live via closed-circuit signal in the arena ofthe ACC. All scats are SS for the showing on a theatre-size screen, and tickets are on sale at the ACC Gate 10 and all regular outlets. NCAA regulations prohibit any Jive television showing ofthis game. -The Observer. 
The Flying Fathers, known as "The Harlem Globetrotters of Ice Hockey," will play a game on Wednesday, Nov. 9 at the ACC for the benefit of Phoenix House, the halfway house for recovering alcoholic women in South Bend. The Fathers, an internationally-known group of priests, have all at one time played either amateur or pro hockey prior to entering the seminary. They will play 20-minute periods against the Notre Dame club hockey team, the St. Joseph's High School hockey team, and the Ice Boxers of the Michiana Senior League. -The Observer 
The Notre DaJD.e volleyball teaJD. traveled 
to East Lansing. Mich. to compete in the Michigan State Invitational this weekend. Things did not go too well for the Irish as they lost all four of their matches. The losses came to Ottawa ( 15-10, 15-13, 15-I0 ), Northwood Institute ( 15-10, 15-12, 1 5-11 ), Cleveland State ( 18-16, 15-1.3, I 5-6), and Michigan State ( 1 5-11, 1 5-2, 12-15, 15· 
12 ). The team's next game will be tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit against St. Francis. Also, the match this upcoming Saturday against St. Xavier which was originally scheduled to be played in the morning, has het:n changed to 8:30 p.m. in tht: Pit. -· The Observer 

Monday, October 17, 1983 -page 8 
The Squash Club will hold its second meeting on Wednesday, October 19 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. A membership fee of S7 will be collected. All new members and in­terested players are invited. For more information, call Sean at 277· 1405.-The Observer 
Stepan court reservations are now being ac­cepted. Any club, organization, or hall wishing court time should complete an application in the Student Activities Office in LaFortune by Tuesday, October 18. Reservations are for the period from Oc­tober 31 to April I. Basketball and volleyball are sports which will receive prime consideration. -The Observer 
Joe Johnson, Irish defensive back, will be one of the featured guests on Speaking ofSports tomorrow night at 10 p.m. on WSND-AM 64. Call in with your questions or comments to 239-6400 or 7425. -The Observer 
The Notre DaJD.e soccer teaJD. won a pair of 
games over the weekend, defeating Marquette, 4-2, in overtime Friday night before trouncing Chicago, 4-I, yesterday. The victories improved the team's record to 13-3, heading into a big game aga;nst powerful Akron on Wednesday. More details on the weekend and on Akron will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Obsen1er 
Who's No.1? talk heats up 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON 
Associated Prr!ss 
There seems to be a difference of 
opinion over just who is the nation's 
best college football team. 
Arkansas Coach Lou Holtz was 
emphatic that second-ranked Texas 
is tops, especially since the Lon­
ghorns trounced the Razorbacks 31· 
3 Saturday. "Texas is not the 
second-best team in the country. 
They are the best team in the country," he said. 
But top-rated Nebraska trimmed Missouri 34-13 and Mizzou Coach Warren Powers, who spent eight years on the Nebraska staff, said the Cornhuskers "sure look like it (No. 
1) right now. They're confident, and they're poised." 
The only other Top Twenty loser besides Ohio State and Arizona was No. I 1 Alabama, which dropped a wild 41-.34 decision to Tennesst:e, the highest scoring contest in one of the South's great rivalrit:s. 

The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. lo 4 p.m. Monday through 
Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 11:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Fro day. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in perso~;, or by
Classifieds mail Charge is ten ents per seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES 

Typtng ALL KINOS 277·8534 after 5·30 
Wilson Dnveaway Cars available for stu· dents to dnve anywhere tn the country. Call 288· 7060 
The URBAN PLUNGEdeadhne tS Fnday Get apphcat1ons from dorm reps, at the Campus M1n1stry, or at the Center for So· c1al Concerns An experience !hilt will open your eyea 
and open your mind 


LOST/FOUND 

Lost gold wedding band w/ ~nscnptlon on 1ns1de. Call Steve 8885 
LOST NAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET HAS SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE AND REWARD IS YOURS. CALL 8810 
LOST NAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET THIS JACKET HAS A GREAT AMOUNT OF SEN· TIMENTAL VALUE AND SO REWARD WILL BE GIVEN. PLEASE CALL 8810 AND ASK FOR JOHN. 
LOST Blue spnng NO tacket. left hangtng on the w1re fence between Badm and the South Otntng Hall If you ltnd 11. please return 11 lo Ntck al 436 Howard or call 6207. I'll have you know rm freeZing to death 
LOST. Please. whoever found my gold watch. call Debbte al 277·4309 H was dropped on Ihe road near lhe GroHo. or by I he tratn tracks at SMC Reward offered 
LOST Two Fountain Pens Hefty $$$ Reward! Call277-6367 
LOST Woman·s Stiver dtgttal watch on Tues. Ocl. 11. between Haggar Center and Madeleva. Please call M.C a14302 
LOST AT SENIOR BAR BLUE MOUN· TAIN PARKA W KEYS AND SCARF IN POCKETS. I0 12 83 CALL 283-1539 ANYTIME . REWARD! 
LOST??? .. CROSS marker w~h name engraved on stde. CALL 23<4-9205 latemghl. 
FOUND: Portratl ol girl. found in Crowley Hall ol Music. Wnnen on lhe back 1s lhe lollowmg: To Gary. wtlh all ol my love. Yours Always. Kathy 
E yeglasses:rimless wlreframes-RewardiiiiiiCall Doug-4625 
LOST: Rousseau's ON THE SOCIAL CONTRACT. Probably in O"Shag. Please call Therese al 6050. 
LOST Two Founlam pens 1n small. brown leather case BIG DOLLARS AT EWARD Call 277·6367 No qqesllons asked PLEASEIIIII 
LOST· A gold sktrtpin (looks ltke oversiZed safety ptn) on South Quad ear· ly Thursday evemng. Of GREAT sen­ltmenlal valuel II found. pleasA call Dol 3661 
LOST. Gold Ttmex WATCH wtlhoul num· bers on lace Thurs . 1 0113 between North Otntng Hall & Lewts. Ltz · 331 Lewts . 7615 
Whoever stole my dark grey three ptece sutl. please return tl and l"lllorgtve you. Ill see you weanng il you"ll lake 11 off. give il to me on the spot. and walk home red and white. It was taken from Mornssey·s lobby on Sal ntle (1 0/8) Return tl Call John at 3580 A reward w1ll be offered for 1nfo on 1ts whereabouts. 


FOR RENT 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE 277-3604 
Female rooml}late wanted to share 1tv1ng 
expenses in furmshed house 15 mmJ#.W-... 
from campus. $150.00 per month. Non· 
smoker please 239-5930 
291·9644 
ET costume for rent Make your reserva· lions nowl Have the best costume on campus! Call 2889842 after 7pm. Ask lor Jeanelle 
1 bedroom house. large ktlchen. large yard area. Cleveland Ad 2 blks E. ol Unt­verstly Mall $200 & heat and ullliltes. Call 237-0156 

WANTED 
NEED 2 TO 4 Pm GA"S WILL PAY BIG 
BUCKS II CALL MARl< 11n 
PITTSBURGH· Rtde needed home lor 
break' Can leave Fnday Oct. 21. Wtll 
share usual Call Mike 3384. 
RIDE WANTED lo Poughkeepsie. NY or vicinity Need lo leave before the USC game Call M.B. al 234·9521 aHer 10:00 PM 
Need 2 Loverboy Tickets Jeff (1377) 
Need nders from Wash. D.C. Leavtng Oct. 29. Kathleen 5166 (SMC) 


TICKETS 
Desperately need Penn Stale game lick· 
els. Call Bnan al8795 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 
2845084 
USC-NO ltx wanted. Paying most. (312) 
246-4650 
HELP! NEED 6 PITT.TIX.MUST BE IN GAPS. OF 2 OR MORESTEVE. 8885 
HELP• Homestd< student won't see parents "Iii Chnslmas unless she can get NAVY GA.'s ASAP. Call Kathleen x8016 $$$ 
Fun lovtng. Foxy. Freshman Frutl Loop 
Fanatic desperately needs 2 Navy G.A.'s. 
Call Otana al 284-4127. 
Need 4 NAVY GAs Doug 2774273 Need lwo G. A."s for the Pttl. game. Call Kelly 284·4074. 

Need 2 USC GA"S Call BRIAN 6961 
HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WANT TO SWAP FOR PENN ST. CALL PAUL 1703. 
WE NEED MANY TIX FOR BOTH USC AND NAVY. CALL WOll. 1773. HI PAT· TY 
I AM WILLING TO TRADE 2 AIR FORCE STUD. TIX AND/OR CASH FOR ONE PIT STUD. TIX OR GA. MY GIRLFRIEND IS ALSO NEGOTIABLE CALL BARNEY 1222. 
A RICH EXECUTIVE HAS ASKED ME TO GET HIM 4-6 USC GAs. HELP CALL PAT 1236 
• NE~T OF NAVY G~S PAY $. CALL PAT al277-7595 
I NEED 2 USC GAS. BIG DOLLARS. CALL3522. 
PITT TIX •• DESPERATELY NEED 3 STUD. & 2 OR MORE GA"S $$$ CALL SUSANNE (SMC)5482 OR (SMC)5047 
NEED 2 PITT GA"s. Call Kathy a12966. 
HELP! I need 3.4.or 5 PITT GA"s. Call Kevin al 6677 
Parents coming from Texas · need 4 Pitt GA"s · Mark 8694 
NEED 4 NAVY GAs DOUG-277-4273 
Desperately need 1wo (2) USC GA.'s lor my old man. Call Brian at 3361 or 3362 II you can help In my dllemna. 
I need 2 Pill GA ltckets Call Dave al277­1327. 
EMERGENCY. BO DEREK and CHRISTY BRINKLEY are gonna be here lor the USC game and I'd beller have TIX For Mega-Bucks call Mtke al x3574 
Need GA"s FOR USC. PITT. NAVY GAMES Laura 4367 or Kate 5515 
HELP! DAMSEL IN DISTRESS! Desperately need 2 USC GA"s (have lo entertain big brother. the lawyer). Call RUTH a1277·8425. 
WILL TRADE MY USC STU FOR A PITT STU-JEFFx3643 
I NEED USC TICKETS. WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE FOR 6 PITT. CALL JERRY AT x1783 AFTER 6 p.m. 
Have one navy stud ticket. Will accept any reasonable offer -call Dave x 1765 
GOOD FRIEND OF FAMILY WITH LOTS OF$$$$ WANTS 4 USC TIX TOGETHER HE WILL DISH OUT MUGHO BUCKS $$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL FRANK 7449 OR TED 1873 
Need 1 USC ticket• $$$ call Pal al 289· 7340 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR USC. SENIOR SECTION. BEST OFFER. CALL 6633. 
NEED 2 USC GA"S. WILL BEAT ANY OTHER OFFERS. IF YOU WANT LOTS OF$$$$ CALL BOAT 1615 
ALUM needs USC and PITT GA"s! Help? Call Dave 6238. 
I NEED 2 USC GAs. CALL JACK 277­3315. 
HELP' I need 2-4 Pill G.A.s. Will pay big bucks. Call Mark a11177. 
TWO FOR ONE • l"lllrade my two PITT GA·s lor one USC GA. Or I'll pay$$. Call Dave al 239-5276 days. 
NEED STUDENT TICKET FOR USC GAME. CALL FRANK (1240) 
NEEo :iN~~~ oil; ;;~~~;e ~all s.!M at 
1582. 
LAST CHANCE FOR FOLKS TO SEE NO GAME. NEED 2 NAVY GA.'S CALL MATTAT1462 
Gi•e lo a worthy cause--YOURSELF! Take my money in exchange lor 2 USC GAs. Callloday-Rob-3251 . 
GOTSTA HAVE NAVY GAs x1695 
FOR SALE 4 USA GA"S (BLOCK). FAMI· L Y CAN'T MAKE THE GAME! CALL 4365 
I need 2 ltckels lor lhe USC Game for priest who is offenng eternal bliss in return!! call Kurt a13698. 
USC Tix needed. Call 1776. 
CASH for USC tickets (G.A. preferably). Call Mtke at 1850 
NEEDED: 1 sld. Air Force lickel 1 have 1 Navy std. lickellor possible trade deal or will pay cash. Call1955 
Rich. "63 NO grad needs 1 or 2 USC stu­dent tickets. Also. need 1 Pill sludenl or GA. Call Dave or Rod a11615. 
Need 2 GA"s for NAVY game-call Steve al 6638 
HELP! I NEED 4 NAVY GA"S. ·CALL DAVE AT 1601. 
Need 4 Pitt GA'stn patrs. Call Katie 2703 
DESPERATELY NEEDED: 3 NAVY GA"s. Call Charlene al2909 
I NEED 2 GAS AND 1 STUDENT TICK· ET CALL 1554 · DURING LATE EVE­NING IS BEST. 
$!$!$!$DESPERATE!$!$!$ Need one lickel for USC. Call SMC 5122 and ask lor Pally. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need USC tix. call Mark al1229. 
Need Non-sludenllickets lo NO vs USC. Call collect. (312) 565·5959 ><2013 or x2233. 
I NEED 10G.A."STOTHE U.S.C. GAME. WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT FOR THESE TICKETS AND THEY NEED NOT BE TO· GETHER. PLEASE CALL 1779 And ASK FOR DAN. 
HELP 

A very RICH friend needs PITT GA.' a. He is willing to pay serious dollars for lhe lickets. Please help by calling David at 
277·1326. 
You'll be glad you did 

I NEED TROJAN (USC) TICKETS STU· DENT/GA SEMI-MEGA$$ CALL SAM. 1721 

FOR SALE 

bulcherblock looseball table lor sale like new ca11255 0116 
AVAIABLE: TWO ALUMNI USC TICKl ETS.CALL263-1523.ASK FOR BILL. 
For SaiP: Fuzzbusler Less than one year old. Excellant condition. Price to Negoltate. call Ruth 277-8425 
HP·41C OWNERS 1!11!!1 TWO HP62106A MEMORY MODULES FOR SALE al $25.00 EACH CALL 283-1539 
FOR SALE ONE USC GA. BEST OFFER.-ITS YOURS!!!CALL 277-8497 
2 USC STUD TIX • Best offer by Wed gels them. Call3663 

[ RIDES 

NEED RIDE lo North N J. Can leave as early as Wed 10119. return Sun 10/30 Will share expenses. Call Liz 1267 
NEED RIDE TO ATLANTA AFTER USC GAME. I wtll share lhe usual. Call Tim al 3493 
HEY MINNESOTANS II RIDE OF FRO TO TWINS--RNTD CAR NEED a. 6094 LOU 
NEED RIDE lo OHARE/CHGO area Thurseve. before break. Marya 1317. 
DESPERATE FEMALE NEEDS A RIDE TO FLORIDA FOR FALL BREAK. CALL 2955. 
RIDERS NEEDED urgenlly to Alabama lor October Break. Leaving Sun .. Oct. 23. Call Mary Kay al7493. 
lsn"l anyone g01ng to CLEVELAND?! REALLY need a ride lo/lrom Cleveland lor break.Wanl lo leave after USC.Call Pam 2989. 
NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN NJ/NY AREA FOR OCT. BREAK. CAN LEAVE FRI.. OCT 21. OR AFTER USC GAME. PLEASE CALLJANET AT x4673. 
RIDE NEEDED TO CONNECTICUT OR NEW YORK FOR OCTOBER BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES. CALL DAN6624. 
RIDE NEEDED TO BINGHAMTON,NY. ON ATE. TO ALBANY & SYRACUSE ON 60/61. PLEASE CALL MARIE 2n-0487 
HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE FOR BREAK! CALL SHERRI6841 
NEED RIDERS TO WASHINGTON D.C. AREA FOR BREAK CALL DIANE 5045(SMC) 
Will gtve 2 USC STUDENT TICKETS lo anyone who can ltnd us 2 rides lo Ptll. area for Oct. Break Must leave Thurs. or F~. Call4407 SMC 
Need riders lo lhe TWIN CITIES. Leave Thurs late. Ttm or Paul8307 
I need a nde from PHILLY-TRENTON lo NO on 10/30. Call Maureen al 6024. please. 

PERSONALS 
GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT!! TRY A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE NOW DELIVER· lNG MON-SA T 9-12pm. CALL 272-4453 
NEED 38.JSC TIX CALL KATY AT SMC 4334 . 
I need Pm GA.'s Call David al 277· 1326 
To lhe Farley girl who borrowed my grey Farrell t-ahlrt: Please return il to 409Keenan 
LOOKING FOR A RIDE TO THE SHOW ME STATE· NEED RIDE TO ST LOUIS AFTER THE GAME (OF COURSE). WILL PAY USUAL CALL MOAT 1311 
LOOK OUT-LOVER BOY AND AC/OC ARE COMING TO THE ACC--SOONI 
TRAVELING THIS BREAK? Protect yourself wilh 24hr emergency road s ervice and other AAA Motorclub benefits. Convenient on campus serv1c e For tnlormalton call Jtm a1283-2167. 
I WOULD WRITE THIS WITH MY BLOOD IF IT COULD GET ME USC TICKETS. I WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE FOR 6 PITT. CALL JERRY AT x1763 AFTER 6 p.m. 
Dear Mom I (Cavanaugh) Oh! Am I looking forward lo fall break when I wtll make my pilgnmagc to lhe WINDY CITYI Can't watl for lhe week lo 
end so I can enJOY a couple ol days in my old stomptng grounds. Hope we have a great three days!!!! 
Love-your son 
Tom 
ELLIOT. YES. THERE IS LIFE AFTER PARASIT. THOUGH I'M NOT SO SURE YOU EVEN HAVE A LIFE. COME OVER AND LETS TALK ABOUT IT SOMETIME VIC 
CAP"N CRUNCH HAS SOGGY NUG· GETS!!! 
PITTSBURGH BUS FOR FALL BREAK HAS SEATS STILL AVAILABLE LEAVES 
10:00 PM. AFTER USC GAME: CALL BILL 7638. PAT 1694 
MARY·· you think you know il. but you 
don't. so right it, and you're wrong", the 
procreant urge, soccer, soccer, soccer. 
Twixes. ho-hos. lhe Mary Beth scare. 
Cheeers. QUARTERS WARS. the Police. 
I love ethics", call me Ishmael, Hawaiian 
hosprtalily. teenage years...GONE!I! But 
fear not, you'll enjoy the void year" in be· 
tween a teenager and being legalll HAP­
py BELATED 20th BIRTHDAY MARY!II 
Hope you had a great day! I Love. Megan. 
Sandi. Anne. and Laune 
Can you flex your love muscle?!? 
TAMMY. We missed your wild-woman giggles. WELCOME BACK! FC & Oentse 
Does anyone wish lo dance with Igor? 
HELP! Save the gravy-sucktng p1gs. They are tn danger of EXTINCTION 
back seat abuse. elkhart... conage. beer and wine, cards. sauna. lake, fire. smores. backrubs. HAPPY belated BIRTHDAY ANNE 
Tamte. 11 you·re not gonna moan. SHUT UP!IIDOMERS 


The Observer 


NFLStandings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE AMERICAN CONFERENCE NATIONAL CONFERENCE East 

E..t  w  L  T  Pet.  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA Buffalo  5  2  0  .714  
Dallas  7  0  01.000  215  135  Ba~imore  4  3  0 .571  
Washington  5  1  0  .'l33  182  122  Miami  4  3  0  .571  
Philadelphia  4  3  0 .571  111  138  New England  3  4  0  .429  
NY Giants  2  5  0  .286  126 156 NY Jets  3  4  0  .429  
St. Louis  2  5  0  .286  137  218  Cantral  
Cantral  Pittsburgh  5  2  0 .714  
Minnesota  5  2  0  .714  164 167 Cleveland  4  3  0  .571  
Green Bay  3  3  0 .500  161 166 Cincinnati  1  6  0  .143  
Detroit  3  4  0  .429  147 133 Houston  0  7  0 .000  
Chicago  2  5  0  .286  146  154  West  
Tampa Bay  0  7  0  .000  108 176 LA Raiders  5  2  0  .714  
West  Denver  4  3  0  .571  
San Francisco  5  2  0  .714  203 122 Seattle  4  3  0 .571  
LA Rams  5  2  0  .714  152 125 Kansas C~y  3  4  0  .429  
New Orleans  4  3  0 .571  158 155 San Diego  3  4  0  .429  
Atlanta  2  5  0  .286  145 145  
Yesterday's Results  

Miami 32, N.Y. Jets 14 Minnesota 34, Houston 14 San Francisco 32, New Orleans 13 St. Louis 34, Tampa Bay 27 New England 37, San Diego 21 Detroit 31, Chicago 17 Pittsburgh 44, Cleveland 17 Buffalo 30. Baltimore 7 Denver 24. Cincinnati 17 Seattle 38, L.A. Raiders 36 Kansas C~y 38, N.Y. Gtants 17 L.A. Rams 27, Atlanta 21 Dallas 37, Philadelphia 7 
Tonight's Game Washington al Green Bay 

• • • Orioles 
PF PA 146 130 137 155 148 126 155 165 146 145 
183 132 135 159 108 146 123 208 
181 132 112 117 164 158 145 123 191 211 

continued/rampage 12 
"Thank you, sir. You can tell the Russians we're having an awfully good time over here playing baseball," Dempsey said. 
For Altobelli, getting the job at Baltimore was a homecoming of sorts, since he spent 14 years in the Orioles organization. It also was a supreme test ofhis ability to manage without the designated hitter, which is used in the American League but only allowed in even-numbered years in the World Series. 
Altobelli said he believed that 
comparisons with Weaver would 
never end, but it really didn't matter. 
You see, Altobelli is a company man, 
too. 

In fact, they were all company men. Guys like Dempsey, who had caught more games than any other Oriole and who, despite only hitting .231 during the season, contributed a double in addition to his home run, giving him five extra-base hits -a record for a five-game Series. And guys like McGregor, who nailed 
down the Orioles' third Seriescham­pionship and first t since the Weaver­led team of 1970. 
Altobelli had continued Weaver's platoon system, using six outfielders regularly, and they contributed enough to offset the disadvantage of having to play the Series without a designated hitter. They were Al­tobelli's interchangeable parts, never begrudging the other man his chance. 
Good company men, like Jim 
Dwyer andJohn Lowenstein, each of 
whom had a Series homer. 
It was in 1979 that the Orioles 
made their last Series appearance, 
but they lost to Pittsburgh in seven 
games after being up 3-1. 
This time, they didn't let the World Series ring escape. 
After losing the first game 2-1 at Baltimore, the Orioles won Game Two at home, then swept three in Philadelphia They became only the fourth team to win in this manner and the first since the New York Mets did it to an earlier Baltimore club in 1969. 


On this night, McGregor, who had lost three straight postseason games dating to Game Seven of the 1979 Series, was the quintessential Orioles pitcher, a member of a staff that turned in a postseason ERA of 
1. 11 -10 earned runs in nine games. 
Phillie Pete Rose's benching on Friday pointed out a vital difference between these two clubs. While Rose protested, Altobelli moved his players around like chess pieces without rebuttal. They were happy and loose, and they were also were winning. 
And Dempsey was their leader. Ken Singleton, Baltimore's designated hitter during the regular season, had dubbed the Orioles' sixth, seventh and eighth hitters ­Rich Dauer, Todd Cruz_ and Dempsey -the Three Stooges be­cause they always left him stranded on base. 
Dauer was Larry. He had three RBI and three hits in the Orioles' 5-4 vic­tory in Game Four Saturday. 
Cruz was Curly. He had a pair of 
hits and helped continue a couple of 
rallies. 
And Dempsey was Moe, the 
leader. 
He started the Orioles' ftfth inning 
yesterday with his ftfth extra-base 
hit, a double that short-hopped the 
wall in left-center and chased Hud­
son in favor of Marty Bystrom. 
McGregor bunted, and Phillies 
catcher Bo Diaz let the ball slip 
through his fingers for an error while trying to throw to first. McGregor was safe, and Dempsey stayed at second. 
Awild pitch by Bystrom advanced the runners, and AI Bumbry hit a sacrifice fly to left, scoring Dempsey. 
The Orioles thus became the first American League team to win the World Series since the New York onships in 1977 and 1978. 
It capped a season in which the Orioles won a record seventh AL East title and a 'liixth pennant since 1966. 
It was another good year for all those company men at the Bal­timore Orioles, Inc. 
COUNSELINE A service to the NO community 239-7793 HOURS: 4-topm Mon-Thurs. Counsehne is a free. confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped materials that cover a wide va~i~!~.~.f..~.tudent concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Fnendshtp Butldmg 7 Dealrng w•th ConstructtveCnttctsm 8 Dealtng wtth Anger 9 UnderslandmgJealousy a'ld How to Deal w1th 11 10 How to Say "NO" 16 Becomtng Open to OUlers 18 Oatmg SkillS 30 Anxtely and Poss•ble Ways to Cope Wllhlt 32 How to Deal w•th Lonlmess 33 How to Handle Fears 35 Butldmo self·Esteem & Confidence 37 Relaxmg Exerc•ses 38 Copmg wtlh Stress 39 Female Sex Role·· Changes and Stress 44 Learnmg to ACcept Yourself 61 What tS Therapy & How to Use It 83 How to Cope wtth a Broken Relat•onship 85 Understandmg Gnel 90 Hetp•ng a Fnend 160 Early s•gns of an Alcohol Problem 161 Responstble Dec•stons About Dr•nkmg 402 Self·Asserilveness 431 What IS Depresston 432 How to Deal w1th Depress1on 433 DepresSion as a ltfe Style 478 Becommg Independent from Parents 479 Dealing wtlh Alcohohc Parents 491 SuiCidal Cris1s 492 Recogntltng Suicidal Potential mOthers 493 Helpmg Som!!:'?.~~!~.~.Su1C1dal CriSIS  
Counseflne Is a completely anonymous service offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239·7337 between 9·5 . --CLIP AND SAVE-­ 

The ObserVer 



• . Mauling
• 

Notre Dame Pre-Law Soceity continuedfrompage /2 the three-yard line. The drive first and ten from the Irish 49 and is sponsoring a covered 79 yards in 13 plays and ran it back for what appeared to be a
end. made Faust very happy. 72-yard touchdown until flags flew
With Notre Dame seemingly well 

lAWSCHOOl.. CARAVAN
"I was impressed the way our and Notre Dame was penalized foron their way to a first-half rout, the second-team drove all the way down
second quarter suddenly saw the of­clipping, thus nullifying the score. 
the field for the score," he said.

fense slow down. Smith's hand offto Machtolfwith :24 
"They looked very good." Wednesday, October 19th
On the first possession of the left brought the afternoon to an end 
In Notre Dame's final possession, lOa.m. to 4p.m.
second quarter, the Irish moved as time ran out on the outmatched 
two senior quarterbacks, Kevin

from their own 22 to the 41 before Army squad. in Stepan Center 
Smith and Tom Cushing, receivedthe Army defense took hold and 

their chances to contribute. Lester On the day the Irish accumulatedstopped what appeared to be anoth­
438 total yards, of which 272 came Representatives from 80 law schools
Flemons also entered lineup at tail­

er Notre Dame march downfield. back. His play was highlighted by a 
on the ground and 166 through the will be present to answer your
When a Beuerlein pass to AlonzoJef­
questions on admissions, financial
17-yard run up the middle. Both

ferson was broken up on third and air. In turn the defense held Army to 
aid, LSAT'S, etc.
Smith and Cushing completed their

seven, the Irish were forced to punt just I 59 total yards, 95 on rushes 
ALL ARE WELCOME
only attempted passes, for 15 and 12

for the first time. and 64 in the air. The defensive ef­yards, respectively, in leading a
The defense then held Army to a fort was led by Furjanic with eleven drive from the Notre Dame 38. It
total of I0 yards on six plays, forcing stops. Kovaleski was next with seven ended when Flemons was stopped
a punt from the 38. plus an interception. on fourth-and-goal from the seven.
When Notre Dame got the ball 

Placekicker Mike Johnston was
When Army took over with 1:08back on their 22, It was time for the 

perfect on the day as he converted
to play, Dave Grasch entered atsecond-team to take their tum. With 

on all six extra-point tries.
quarterback and led the Black

Kiel seeing his first action at the Knights to their first successful Joe Howard tied a Giant's Stadium
helm, the Irish drove to the 48, but crossing of the midfield stripe. The record for collegiate punt returns as
again ended up having to punt. In success was short-lived, however, as he pulled in eight for a total of 95
the drive, Kid completed 2-of-3 
Wilson intercepted a Grasch pass on yards.
passes for 15 yards. Freshman tail­back Hiawatha Francisco and junior fullback Dave Machtolf also made their first appearances of the game, and each gained foll.f yards. Machtolf eventually ended the day as the second leading Irish rusher, ac­cumulating 45 yards on seven carries. 
The Irish had tht· hall one more 

time in the first half, and despite not 
scoring, the serie!> was highlighted 
by a 21-yard reverse to Joe Howard 
that moved the ball from the I I to 
the_U. 
Leading 2 1-0 at the half. Notre 

Damt·, not surprisingly, had 
dominated the play on both offense 
and defense. The offense totalled 
200 yard~ whik limiting Army to 
just 74 and two first downs. Army even failed to cross mid-field. 
After Army won the first-half toss, they deferred their option to the second half, so Notre Dame kicked off again to start the third quarter. Faust explained the rea.~on for originally choosing to kick. 
"We t'nlkd up kicking off twice 

today because we felt our defense 
had hn·n getting stronger and 
stronger," ht· said. "Plus, field posi­
tion wa.~ important when going 
against the wind." 
In the third quarter, the Irish scored two more times upping their kad to 35-0 on runs by Pinkett and Mark Brooks, who started in place of Chi-is Smith who injured his ankle during Wednesday's practice. On both scores the offensive line worked well containg the Army defenders and clearing the way to tht• goal line. 
On Army's first possession of the half, the defense continued to show that they were going to remain strong. They allowed Army to move out to the 39, hut a charging Joe Johnson quickly leveled Laughlin for a IS-yard loss on third and eight. 
The next time the Cadets were in 

possession, it was Mike Gann who 
dropped Laughlin for a ten-yard loss 
on a third-and-five play. 
With less than 1:30 to play in the 

quarter, Army got their best chance 
to score when Notre Dame tailback 
Byron Abraham was hit hard, fum­
bling the ball on the Notre Dame 28. 
Following three incomplete passes 
and a penalty for illegally touching 
the ball, the Cadets were faced with 
fourth and I 5 from the 33. Bill Tur­
ner, then in at quarterback for Army, 
hit Travis Jackson who appeared to 
be nearing the first down, but a continuously-hustling Furjanic nailed Jackson three yards short of the mark. 
Notre Dame then took over at their 21 with :17 to play in the quar­ter, and, behind a fired-up second­team line, the Irish marched down field. Two Kiel completions for I 5 and I7 yards as well as runs by Abraham and Machtolffor II and 13 yards respectively, highlighted the drive that culminated in Notre Dame's final touchdown as Kid forced his way into the endzone on a broken play on first and goal from 
October 17 (starts at 9 15)  
Citizen Kane (194 11 usA-AKO  
Otrected by Orson Welles  8/W. 1 19 mm  
The young Orson Welles dtrecfed hlmse/1 and abnlllanr  
cast. mcludtng Agnes Moorehead and Everett Sloan, tn the  
COffimUr'liCAIIOO  tale ol the nse and fall of a newspaper mogul  Wtlh mustc  
~___!_H~~  by Bernard Herrmann and Cinematography by Greg  
1JniVER.SIJY Of nolRE DAI'flE  Toland  7p..m. &:9p.IQ.  

1Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
$ 2. 00 

Tickets •11.50 & •10.50 On Sa'-Centvry Cen..r l,ox Office or
T1() ~I 1(3/t-i·lr·---~ . Notre Dame Student Unl-Tldr:et Office 
FOR CHARGE ORDII5-Call214-9111
,............................... •• •
~ 

BrotherAdalbert Mrowca, esc


I I •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
t Thanks! to the Notre Dame Community for your + : generous assistance during Brother's accident and : t death. Special thanks to Professor Chagnon, Fr. + 2 GREAT P1Z7AS t Hesburgh, Fr. Jenky, Mr. Muller, Fr. Rocca, Security + I LOW PRICE 

Officers, Fr. Soleta, and Mark Torres. :
: 

: Brothers ofHoly Cross : "PIZZALIGHT' is oar2 for 1 pizza speciaL Buy one with the coupon below and receive an identicalpizza 
FREE. Free delivety does not apply.
~ ••••••••••••~~~~~f:~ •••••••••••l 

Anturnao·s Barber & Hair ·styje Shop 1437 North Ironwood Drive Sputh Bend. IN 
HOME OF THE IRISH 
Four Stylists 1Jo Serve You Five minutes from cam us 


Graduate Study in 

Public Policy 


The LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of Texas at Austin emphasizes public policy analysis, inter­disciplinary research and summer internships in govern­ment agencies in its graduate programs: 
Master's Degree in Public Affairs Joint Degrees Program with the UT Law School Joint Degrees Program with the UT College of En~ gineering Joint Degrees Program with the UTGraduate School of Business 
Financial aid and fellowships are available based on merit or need. 
MEt rW/Tli II Hl"I~ESENT1\ TIVE IIT University of Notre Dame Career & Placement Services Administration Bldg., Rm 213 

October 18, 1983 

9:00a.m.-3:00p.m. 
Special Guest TONYBROWN 
Friday, Oct. 21-8 P.M. Morris Civic Auditorium-So. Bend 
•· 
.


tnre 
a 

272-8030 
Open 4p.m. 7 clays a-week Last ordertaken la.m. 




r·;;~:p:;·;;··, 
(Across from Big "C" Lam~ 
Monday Only 
Bruno will delivera: Jli' with any toppings for $6.95to campus FREE! 
277-4519 Open4-11
• 
7daysaweek 



---------------------.--.-_.. ---,.~~--~~--.~".-----·····"-·~:··J 
'· I.

~c:tcJl.at~-------------------------------M-o-n-da_y_,.ac__ro_re_r_l_7_,1_9_83----~--e-1-1 
Bloom County 
OUV£R, YOtfR£ IN 510 TROU81..£. 71-1£ F.IH CAI.L£P A6AIN P.NCJ 5Aitl 
IHIIT YOU'\16 !3f£N BR€AKIN& 
INTO TH£ MAIN f~10HT 
CGW!P\ITER AT NA'JA ... 


Mellish 
ME TOO, SR. LUCAS. WE NEED A liTTLE 
)OliAl Llff. 

Ill Ill 
5 Famous 

warden 10 Falana of song .,.....-r.-:--r.:-::--r.-::--, 14 Aid and ­15 "-in Paris" ~-+---1~+--f 16 Press 17 Soccer great 18 Light color 
~-+----11--+~ 19 Afflicted with alo· pecia 
20 Warnings of danger 22 3D, in 1--+---1~+-+--4 Britain 24 Neckline 
The Daily Crossword 

f.:::--+---1~-1 shape tree
Saturday'sSolution 





tJAJ) ! ITS MONDAY.f filE~ 's NO WAY otJ El\trlf r CAN &rr 

I fEEl !SoL~ TE [) r~o111 rue. ~E5T 

IJE C.O~LD UAV£ LUtA~. yow'~E 5o OLD· OF THE. UNIVER~rrf. liE NfED A 
A PitNil oN fA~HIOtlt[). Yo!A PON'r 50(!AI. fVE NT to GET US BACk IN 
Tl!E BAtk lAWN. SE~ ANY OF THE. TO~tff WIT~'THE 5TMDti'IT So~'/. 
OTHER IIAllS HAYiNI: 
PICIIIO 1 Do yow~ NO 1
f>~T,WI!AT?, I 
!I 

THEY HAVE ilAPPy HOUfl AND PARnfs AliD smw­YO!It·ROO"'M~ Tf s... 
\ I 
ACROSS 1 Touches lightly 

25 Irish ­26 -polloi 28 Suspicious 30 Work 34 Sounds of 
surprise 35 On the ­(fleeing) 
36 -·Dale (a Robin Hood man) 
37 Merry: Fr. 
38 Before coloror cycle 
39 Edge 40 Pen point 41 Scents 43 Summer 
drink 44 Hawaiian 
Berke Breathed 


Photius 
f'LL C.H llff" flCKEf5, 0. K1, !'1.-L 4ff '£11. 
Dave &Dave 

Campus · 
•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Graphics on 1MB PC, 115 Computing Center 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, Walter Creese1 Architecture Auditorium, Sponsored by Architecture Dept. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Properties of excited states -the second chemistry," Prof. Arthur W. Adamson, 123 NSH 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Shallow Gas Fields in High Porosity Chalk: An Independent's Exploration Strategy," John P. Lockridge, 101 Earth Science Building 

•7 
and 9:15p.m.-Monday Night Film Series, "Citizen Kane," Annenberg Auditorium 


•7 p.m.  -·  Lecture, "South Africa: Apartheid vs  
Human  Rights,"  Prof  Peter  Walshe,  Stapleton  
Lounge  
•7 p.m.  -Informational Meeting, SMC's Lon·  

don and Rome Summer Program, 228 Moreau Hall 
•7 
and 9:20 p.m. -Shakespeare Film Series, "Much Ado About Nothing," Sponsored by Arts and Letters, Engineering Auditorium 

•7 
p.m.-Finance Club General Meeting, 122 Hayes-Healy 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Todos Santos Cuchumatan," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by SOLA, Free 

•7 
p.m. -Bible Study Meeting, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Baptist Student Union, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Graduate Students Ecumenical Fellowship, Campus Ministry Office-Badin Hall, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, 

•7:30 
p.m. -New York Trip Meeting, For all those attending the NY trip, 122 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Finance Club, ~48 p.m. -Meeting, Captian Crunch -Why? Club, Center for Social Concerns Multi-Purpose Room, 


TV Tonight . 
8p.m.  16  NBC Monday Night Movie: "Police  
Woman Centerfold,"  
22  After MASH  
28  Monday Night Football: Washington  
at Green Bay  
34  The Shakespeare Plays  
8:30p.m.  22  Newhart  
9p.m.  22  Emerald Point N.A.S.  
10p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  

Far Side . 
45 Of kidneys 46 Fiend 48 Explosive 49 Tell 51 Vein find 53 Blabs 56-Dallas 59 "I cannot 
tell-" 60 Fla. resort 
city 62 Landed 63 Advertising 
sign 64 TV actor -Williams 
65 Takeout, to a proof· reader 
66 Kellyor 
Tierney 67-HaiiU. 68 NewYork 
State canal 
DOWN 1 Father 2 Actor 
Walter­3 Home enter· tainment 
4 Cubic meter 5 Scientists' 
places 
8 Mimic 7 Author I LXXX 
-8 Ralnmlxed with snow 10 Generous 11 Spoken 12 Laze about 13 Hardyor 
Williams 21 Reveal secrets 
23 "-,in mournful numbers" 
25 Kind of rig 26 Biblical handmaidell 27 Chicago 
airport 29 Cup handles 31 Financial 
employee 32 Pungent vegetable 33 Moroccan 
port 36 Verdi opera 39 Rank 42 -Dietrich 46 Briny 47 Finally! 50 Fernando 
of films 52 English 
novelist 53 Sharp taste 54 Robt.­55 "The-In 
Winter'' 
58-Fein 57 C.ronfHm 58To­
(euctly) 81 CowiOUnd 


Sports 
Irish outman Cadets, look toward Trojans 
By ED DOMANSKY swarming defense forced Army tail­
Sports Writer back Elton Akins to cough up the 
football. The ball rolled up field 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N. ). -On where freshman Troy Wilson, start· 
Saturday afternoon the Notre Dame ing at strong corner for the injured 
football team returned to Giants Stacey Toran, recovered for the Irish 
Stadium in the New Jersey at the Army 42. Not to be outdone, 
Meadowlands to take on the Black however, the Army defense 
Knights of Army. It was the fourth tightened and after three plays, 
visit to the site since 1977 for an forced Notre Dame to punt on 
Irish football team and, by virtue of fourth and eleven. 
the 42-0 thrashing of the hapless Once again the Notre Dame 
Cadets, the Irish upped their record defense went into action as Tony 
to a perfect 4-0 in the East Ruther­Furjanic downed Blair Kiel's punt on 
ford, New jersey structure. the Army two-yard line. 
The game, played before 75, 131 The Black Knights moved the ball 
spectators, a large portion of which out to the 20, but following an of­
were Notn: Dame supporters, was fside penalty, they were faced with a 
the second largest collegiate foot­third and nine from the 15. Quarter­
hall crowd to fill Giants Stadium. back Rich Laughlin dropped back to 
Saturday's game marked the third pass, under heavy pressure from straight victory for the steadily Rick Naylor and Mike Golic, and improving Irish squad, and more im­promptly threw into the waiting portantly proved to be a total team arms of a charging Mike Kovaleski effort as 65 of the 68-member who returned the inteception to the travelling squad saw action. The win five. lifted the team's record to 4-2 It took the Irish just two plays to heading into what many consider capitalize as Pinkett plunged over the toughest part of the 1983 the pile for what was to be the first of schedule which begins this coming his three touchdowns on the day, weekend as the Irish return to Notre giving the Irish an early 7-0 lead. Dame Stadium after four con-On their next possession Notre secutive road games to play host to Dame struck again. Taking over on the Trojans ofSouthern Cal. their own 32 following a 49-yardJoe 
In his post-game press con­Sartiano punt, the Irish quickly 
ference, a pleased Gerry Faust moved to the Army 23 with the help 
addressed the media with his of consecutive runs of 27 and 18 
thoughts on the game. yards by Pinkett. On third and nine, 
"After coming off a big win for us quarterback Steve Beuerlein was last week at South Carolina, I forced to roll out to the left, but thought our players executed very managed to fire a struck to tight end well today," he said. "We're getting Mark Bavaro, who caught the ball better. I think It's obvious we're a and powered in from the two better football team than we were. increasing the lead to 14-0. The We got to play a lot of people and I touchdown pass was the highlight of thought we made some progress the game for Beuerlein who was 6­today." of-11 for 92 yards on the day. 
One of those who executed espe­After starting from the 20, the cially well was tailback Allen defense again held Army to four Pinkett, who topped the 100-yard plays, forcing them to punt from the plateau for the fifth time in six 19. games. He carried 22 times and The Irish then took over on their gained 132 yards. own 47 and eight plays later it was 
"It's very satisfying to do well, but Pinkett again crossing the goalline. the team's success Is most impor­This time, after the offensive line tant," he said. "We're finally playing opened a hole on third and one, relaxed and that's when it's easiest Pinkett broke off right tackle and to ·execute. Playing simple, fun­continued toward the endz t one, . damental football is Important." breaking three tackles enroute to his 
The Irish wasted little time in second touchdown. The score stood asserting their dominance and set­at 21-0 as the first quarter came to an ting the stage for things to come as, just two plays into the game, a see MAULING, page 10 
Baltimore Orioles sluggers Cal Rip­ken and Eddie Murray had reason to celebrate yesterday as their team defeating Philadelphia, 5· 

Monday, October 17, 1983-page 12 

Allen Pinkett skips into the endzonefor one of the game with 132 yards, tying a career best. For his three touchdowns on Saturday in Notre more on the game, see Ed Domansky's story at Dame's 42-0 mauling ofArmy. Pinkett finished left. 
'Company men' do it 
Orioles win World Championship 
Associated Press nome runs in the deciding game yes-five-game senes with five extra-base terday, and Scott McGregor, whose hits, four doubles and a homer, was five-hit shutout capped a masterful the leader, at the heart of nearly 
PHILADELPHIA -Business is postseason pitching performance by every Baltimore scoring chance. booming at the firm of Baltimore the entire Orioles staff. "I've been here for 11 years and Orioles, Inc. Their field is baseball, "We proved what we've been I've never been this hot," said and they are the champions. saying all along," Murray said. "We Dempsey, who had only four 
Yesterday's 5-0 victory over the have a ballclub that isn't made up of homers and 32 RBI in the regular Philadelphia Phillies, wrapping up just two ballplayers." season. "I don't think anyone ever Baltimore's third World Series McGregor, who led a staff that thought of my hitting a home run championship, was a victory for an gave up just 10 earned runs and today or any other day in the World organization-oriented team that compiled a 1.11 ERA in nine Series." doesn't. rely on any one person, be postseason games, echoed the com-And he was enjoying it. he manager or player. pany line. In a jubilant Orioles locker room, 
It ushered in a new era as first-year "We proved that you have to have Dempsey took a congratulatory ManagerJoe Altobelli completed his 25 guys to win a championship," telephone call from President ascension to the throne vacated by McGregor said. "You can't do it with Reagan. Earl Weaver, who had guided the just one or two stars." see ORIOLES, page 9 
team to its last series victory in Dempsey, who set a record for a 1970. And It was company men who did 
ND tennis team demolishes
it. Men like Most Valuable Player Rick Dempsey, who homered and 
conference taurnament field 
doubled and directed Baltimore's overwhelming pitching from his ByJANE HEALEY and Panther and Lee performed thecatcher's crouch. 
AssistantSports Editor same feat in the second flight. Co­Men like Eddie Murray, who captain Greta Roemer and juniorbroke a miserable slump with two 
Everyone expected the Notre Cathy Schnell gave up three games Dame women's tennis team to do in their 6-0, 6-3 championship vic­well this weekend in the North Star tory. Conference Championshps. But After the Irish in the team stand­"well" doesn't even come close to ings were Butler with 13 points and decribing the success ~fthe Irish. DePaul with 11. Xavier, Evansville, 
"The team did a super job," Coach Dayton, Valparaiso, and St. Louis Sharon Petro aptly commented. ''I'm filled the remaining five slots. very pleased with the team. Players The NSC championship ended the have a tendency not to play that well fall season for Petro's crew -a fall against weaker players, but they season that the coach is fairly never let up." pleased about. 
Not only did the Irish win all six "It was great," she said. "It was a singles flights and all three doubles terrific season. It was the best we've flights garnering a maximum 27 ever had." points, but they did so without Petro is correct in her assumption 
losing more than five games in any an two counts. The 9-0 record the one match. Irish compiled is the first undefeated No. 1 seed Mary Colligan of Notre season for an Irish team. And the vic­
Dante defeated the second seed, tories over Purdue and Illinois were Karen Kohl ofXavier, 6-3, 6-2, in the the first victories over Big Ten op­third flight ofsingles play. That is the ponents in Irish history. 
closest any opponent came to an "The only disappointment was 
Irish player. 

not taking our own tournament (theIn the first flight the final score Irish Invitational won by Western was 6-3, 6-1 in favor of sophomore Michigan)," Petro said. "I thoughtSuzie Panther. Next, was a 6-0, 6-1 we should have won that one." 
decision going to co-captain Lisa With the fall season behind her,LaFratta. At No. 4 singles, Pam Fis­Petro must now work on the future.

chette recorded a 6-0, 6-1 victory. 

"All we need now is to work hardLaura Lee handed Jamie Stivers of and stay healthy," she said. "If weButler a 6-1, 6-3 beating. And in the can do that, I think we'll do fine laterlast singles match, freshman joAnne 
on."

Biafore was crowned champ on the basis ofa 6-2, 6-2 win in the final. The "later on" is the 1984 spring 
The doubles competition was season and the eventual NCAA even more lopsided than the singles. championships in May toward Colligan and Fischette did not allow which the Irish have directed all thdr opponents to win one game, their attenetion and effort. 




