Comp·uter system -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 28 the independent ~tutlent new~paper st:rving notn dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1983 
Student :Senate upset about R•lemer's veto of K of (~ proposal 
By BRIAN REILLY Student Body Vice-President Peggy News Staff Prevoznik, "He (Roemer) saw K. of 
C. (on the proposal)said no, and just The Stud~nt Senate discussed its ran with it." 
frustration and disappointment over Student Body President Brian Cal­
Dean of Students James Roemer's lahan said Roemer's response to the 
veto of its proposal to allow the resolution, "switched from a ques­
Knights of Columbus building to tion of can we have a party in there 
rent its building for hall parties and to why is the K. ofC. here." 
student organizations. This "blurring" of the issue an­
Many senators believe it is time to gered other senators. "There was ab­
start having more of a voice in the solutely no reason for the letter 
decision making of the University. (Roemer's response) to be as sarcas­
"We just sit back and take whatever tic and condescending as it was," 
they give us," said Bob Riley. "1 think Riley said. McAvoy, the resolution's 
a middle ground must be found. We sponsor, added," I think he took the should be more assertive, showing whole issue and mad~ what he that we are concerned." wanted out ofit." 
A few senators wanted to confront The Student Senate is purely an 
the administration, but Callahan was advisory committee, having no 
against any sort of action that could legislative powers. While no senator 
lead to a break in communication. hinted that the Senate should have 
"You can't do that (force a con­legislative powers, most felt that the 
frontation) because when you getadministration is taking adva11tage of 
shut off, you can't get anything done its position by vetoing so many 
the rest ofthe year."Senate resolutions. 
Callahan's advice not to confront
The Senate is concerned that the Roemer was accepted by the rest ofstudent body won't takt· them 
the Senate, and decided instead toseriously. Said Senator Dave discuss the matter with him at aMcAvoy, "Student Senate is on the future meeting.
line. Students ask, 'What can you do? You pass a resolution, and Dean Callaghan ended the discussion Roemer cuts it down. Y0'11 are a on the resolution by asking the 
worthless body."' senators to consider two questions: MeAvoy believes that the ad­"What is our role?", and "When we ministration has never enjoyed get shut down, what should our next 
having the Knights on campus. Said move be?" 

Dorm p·ublicity rules left to rt~ctoresses 
By EDWARD NOLAN hall take charge of posting the News Staff great amount of material 
concerning hall ·and class fun­The final decision as 1o how tions, and campus-wide. ac­many publicity .flyers a:re dis­tivities. These students would
tributed in a dorm wiftbe left to work in conjuction with the
the hall's rectoress, said Director dorm's publicity representative.
of Student Activities Mary Anne O'Donnell said the procedureO'Donnell at last night's Board of was initiated "to eliminate someGovernance Meeting at Saint of the mess caused by the flyers.
Mary's. 
We hope to encourage students"As it stands now, each dorm's to look at one specific locationpublicity representative :1hould for all upcoming events as well asdiscuss the issue with the: hall's save money by eliminatingresident director," O'Donnell overcopying ofpublicity."
said. This would include decid­ing where flyers are to be posted Saint Mary's students will no and the procedure for their longer choose from A and B )itamping and distribution. schedule tickds. A drawing will 
It was su~ested by the board be held to determine which stu­>lihat several students from each dents receive basketbail tickets. 

The Observer/Carole Laugier 
Bridget Bakergives a hand to customers in the "CornerMarket" located on the first Ist floor of Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's.. 
Sophomore class officers explain rules for Cap'n Crunch contests 
By AMY STEPHAN time between their qualifying and Each t-shirt winner will be entered 
Copy Editor 
championship rounds. in a drawing for another trip for two A team c:an consist of five men, to the Penn State game. The neatest eater, not necessarily five women or any combination, the person with the largest appetite, said Broussard. 
The drawing will take place after should win the Cap'n Crunch eating 
the eating contest finals and the win­contest, according to Sophomore 
The Cap'n Crunch costume con­ner must be present and wearing his Class President, Lee Broussard. test will t~Lke place in the South or her t-shirt in order to win, said Dining Hall on Wednesday, Oct. 19 Broussard.
Detailed rules for the eating con­
at 7 p.m., Broussard said. The person
test and other events to be hdd Treasure chest certificates, one
who most resembles the Cap'n will
during Cap'n Crunch Week (Oct. 
for an individual and one for a dorm,
win a trip for two to the Notre
17-21) were recently released by will be hidden on campus and clues
Dame-Penn State football game. 
the sophomore class officers, 
will appear in The Observer each day
Approximately 125 t-shirt certif­
campus sponsors ofthe event. 
of Cap'n Crunch week, said Brous­
icates will be hidden on campus
sard, adding that the dorm prize will
each day, on Oct. 17-20, by the soph­
ing Cap'n Crunch's visit to the Notre be a video-cassette recorder, but the
omore class officers. Most ofthe cer­
Dame campus have been distributed individual prizes have not been an­
tificates will be hidden indoors, said
(to newspapers, magazines and nounced.
Broussard.
television stations) across the country, said Broussard. "I would 
There will be a limit ofone t-shirt Quaker Oats is spending a say about five to ten will respond," 
per person and certificates must be reported $60,000 to sponsor Cap'nhe added. 
redeemed in the Cap'n Crunch cen­Crunch week, in response to a letter _ In the eating contest, teams offive 
ter in LaFortune, said Broussard. from the sophomore class officers. will compete in a tag-team compdi· tion in which each team member will eat about the equivalent of two dining hall bowls of cereal, said 
c.s~.c. brother dies;
Broussard. Each member ofthe win­ning team will receive a trip for two to Ft. Lauderdale over spring break. 
tea(~her for 40 years
If a contestant should spill <my cereal or milk, he or she will be re­
quired to eat a "penalty bowl" By KATHJHNE ESQUIBEL Broussard said, "The spillage rule 
News Staff 
gives every team a chance. Those few minutes to eat a penalty bowl 
Brother Adalbert Rowca died Sun­will probably put you out ofthe con­
day morning at 1:30 at St. Joseph's test." 
Medical Center. The contest will be limited to 300 The 70-year-old Holy Cross teams, which will compete in three brother was admitted last Monday heats of 100 teams, beginning a1t 3 
morning aft•rr suffering injuries in a 
p.m. on Friday, Oct. 21. The top two 
bicycle accident near St. Michael's teams in each heat will compete in laundry. He had cancer ofthe lungs. the championship round at 4:15, 
A 1936 gJraduate of Notre Dame, said Broussard. 
Brother Adalbert had been with the Registration for the eating contest physics department for almost forty 
and the Cap'n Crunch costume con­years. He re:ceived his doctorate in test will be Oct. 10 through Oct. 18 1944. Adalbert specialized in in LaFortune, said Broussard. Thc:re polymer physics and did research in 

will be a $5 entry fee per team for nuclear magp.etic resonance. He had the eating contest. There is no lfee many ofhis articles published in the Brother Adalbert Rowca C.S.C. for the costume contest. Physics Review. "It's good to register early," said His wake will begin at 2:30 this af­
The funeral mass will be held in St. 
Broussard, explaining that the teams ternoon and will run until 7:30. A 
Joseph's Brother's chapel at 3:30 
will be placed in heats in ordet of wake service will be held in Our 
tomorrow afternoon. Burial will be 
registration. Thus, those teams Lady's Chapel of Sacred Heart 
in Joseph's Cemetery immediately
registering early will have the most Church. at 7:30. 
afterward. 
The Observer 
Tuesday, October 4, 1983 -page 2 
lit Brief 
A memorial Mass for Cathy Pax, a Notre Dame sopho­more who dic:d this summer. will be tonight at 10 in the chapel of Walsh Hall. Father Don McNeill, director of the Center for Social Concerns, will ct:lebrate the Mass. Pax, 19, was killed in a two-car accident Aug. 20 while returning to her home in Coldwater, Ohio. Pax was a copy editor for Tbe Obseroer and was involved in fund­raising for her dorm. -Tbe Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh's annual address 
to the faculty is this afternoon at 4:30 in the EngineeringAuditorium. The address will be closed to the news media, including Tbe Ob· serr1er. A large portion of Hesburgh's remarks will the be trial run of an address he will give to the American Council ofEducation and its Canadian counterpart in Toronto on Oct. 13. -The Observer 
Fieldhouse mall construction is scheduled 
to he completed hy the end of this month, according to Don Dedrick, physical plant director at Notre Dame. The project was schedukd for completion in September, hut the recent lack of rain has hampered landscaping efforts. Several large trees will be planted this month as the final additions to the mall before winter. A foun­tain. part of the original plan, will he erected sometime in the spring. "Wt·'ve put in a drain and water supply already," said Dedrick, ad­ding 1hat he did nor want to stop construction of the entire project simply ht't'aJJsc the dt·sign of the fountain was not final. Dedrick denied rumors of insufficient funding for the fountain addition. 
Tbe Observer 
Fort Wayne, Ind., police began talking to Dan 
Osborne's co-workers Monday in hopes of turning up more clues about who might have brutally slain Osborne, his wife and son. Meanwhile, police still arc guarding the house where Osborne, 35, an editorial page t·ditor at the Fort Wayne News-Sentinel; his wife, Jane, .H; and their son, Benjamin, I I, were found bludgeoned to death Sept. 19. "We're basically where we have been, trying to put together information. We don't have any suspects," said Thomas Engle, public information officer for the Fort Wayne Police Depart­ment. "Interviews have started at the newspaper. We haven't com­pleted it yet," he said. Police believe the three were killed after 9 
p.m. Scpt. 16 or early thc next morning. The Osborne's two-year-old daughter, Caroline, was sexually assaulted and hit in the face but survived the attack. She now is living with rt:latives in Kansas. Engle said about six other police departments have notified Fort Wayne that they have suspects capable ofcommitting such a crime or who might havt· inti>rmation that could help tht· investigation. "We're not ~t·ttin~ do~er. hut we're developing a lot of information that can be UM'd t(>r a con\lt<:tion" once a suspcl't is in custody, Engle said, ad­din~ that ht· still thought the crime would he solved. -AP 
0 
· 

Chaos in motion 
The shuttle bus between Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's is taking a new turn these days, thanks to the 
directors of student activities and the student govern­
ments at both institutions. And it is a turn for the worse. 
The shuttle now travels down Douglas Road on every run after leaving Saint Mary's. The bus stops at the entrance to University Village Apartments, then rumbles down Douglas past Moreau Seminary and the Credit Union before reaching Memorial Library. 
The addition of the University Village visit on each trip was in response to requests by residents. Previously the shuttle went w the complex a few times daily. The rest of the shuttle runs went directly to Notre Dame via Saint Mary's Road. 
Students are complaining, and rightfully so. The Douglas route means an additional 1 5 to 20 minutes on the bus for students who are heading for South Quad or the Grotto, which were easily reached in 5 or 10 minutes under the old schedule. 
The shuttle drivers aren't thrilled about it either. First, it means driving the buses 
down Douglas, which hasn't earned its' nickname "Ho 
UNIVERSITY 

Chi Minh Trail" for nothing. 
VIL...LP-6£ 

"We've actually had exhaust 
SHtATTl..£ SlOP 

systems fall off'' because of the bumps and potholes in that road, according to Jerry Shirtz, one of the drivers. 
In addition, the visit to University Village is proving 
virtually useless. The drivers initiated a count of the num­ber of passengers picked up at the apartments last week. 
The grand total for tbe 


entire week was four, according to Shirtz. Four people. 
The shuttle was initiated by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to encourage the co-exchange program be­tween the two institutions. At best, the Douglas routt: is counterproductive. At worst, inane. 
Continuing for the rest ofthe semester, or the rest of the year, to take a route that is not being utilized is senseless. It shows poor planning and a lack of flexibility. 
The new route puts in last place the needs ofthe stu· dents who depend on the shuttle. The extra time in­volved is making students late for class and encouraging s,tudents to brave the isolated stretches of Saint Mary's Road after dark. Drivers confirm that more students are walking at night because of the new route. 
The needs of the majority should be placed before tht· minority. The residents of University Village are married students. They knew it was off-campus when they moved into the complex. (Ironically. the new 
Margaret Fosmoe 
Managing Editor 
lnsi 

route doesn't provide for any additional trips to 
Campus View Apartments, where most of the student 
overflow of Notre Dame's undergraduate housing 
shortage resides.) 
In addition, University Village residents are 
predominately married Notre Dame students. They 
would not be catching the shuttle at Saint Mary's in the 
first place. If the University Village run is essential, it 
would make more sense to go from Saint Mary's to the 
Grotto to the library and then off-campus, picking up 
ND residents of University 
Village along the way. 

The inanity doesn't end 
there, however. Recently 
the shuttle drivers were in­
structed not to stop at 
Regina and McCandless 
Halls to pick up students. 
(Even though there is 
Transpo bus stop sign stand­
ing a foot from the McCand­
less curb.) Essentially, the 
busesare not picking up stu­
dents in order to assure 
there will be enough time to 
make it to University Village, 
where no one is waiting 
anyhow. 

Whether the student ac­
tivities offices approve or 
not, the shuttle drivers are 
picking up the students. One driver even goes so far as 
to pick up studentsbehind Regina in order not to break 
the rule forbidding stopping "in front ofRegina." 
Such tactics should not be necessary to provide a supposed service to the students. What was so wrong with the old schedule? A surve y of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students should be taken to determine how the shuttle would best serve their needs. Shirtz says the Transpo drivers were never consulted at all. Who would know better how the route should be charted? 
Finally, the cost of the evening shuttle has risen from I 5 to 25 cents this year. In other words, the customers arc paying 66 percent more than last year for poorer servict•. For the price of a quarter, the students arc being taken for an unwanted ride. 

Volunteer Services Center Rm 11 Holy Cross Hall Saint Mary's College 
Gifts given .. . to be shared 
II..HIIIIIIIII...........IIIIIJ. l .. lll.lllflllt..."MI..I .........NH.......M.....I 
~ 
f I 
I 
Of Interest 
Want to eatdinner ar Saint Mary's' Ifso. co-exchange mt·altickch allowing Notre Dame Mudcnts to cat at the Saint Marv·~ din in~ hall can ht· picked up in the basement of South Dining H~ll from H a.m. 10 -1 p.m. Monday through Friday. Saim Mary's students wi~hin~ to cat dinnn at Notre Damt• em pick up tickets at the in­formation desk in tht· llaggar Collcgt: Center durin~ the same hours. Students must he on dth~:r a I 0-or a l.l-mt·al plan and must present colk~c llh. Tickets arc given out on a first-come first-serve basis, and group ri<:kets art· not availahk -The Ohsen•er 
"C . i . th Philli . " 
rts s tn e pmes will be the topic ofa discussion this Thursday night ;It ':00 in the CSC Coffee House. Proft·ssor Peter Moody and Father Steve Bevans will be guest speakers. Moody will give a briefoverview of the Phillipine political dimate, while Father Bevens will discuss reflections on his eight years in the Phillipines. -The Ohsen•er 
Weather 
Cloudy today and cooler with a 4o percent rhann· of light rain. 1.:"..lh in mid to upper 60s. Decreasing clouds tonight. Low around 50. Partly sunny tomorrow. High around 70. -Tbe Ohsen•er 

_The_Observer_ 
Composition Editor. .... Tom Small Composition Assistant... ......... deserted l.aJ''"'' Staff. ... 
...... nix 
'/)•p~S<'I/l'r.< ............ . Traq· and Ted Neu•s l!'tlitor .. ...." Vk Sciulli Copy /:'ell/or.......... . ...... Dan McCullough Sports Cop)' Editor...... . .......Jeff Btumh l£ditorlals Ll~VOtd .. ... Ken Cerabona Sdc•11ce l.t~l'oUI .... .................... Tum Mowk 
NO /Juy l:'clitor... . Melinda Ad /Jesign............ ........... Jeannie PboloRrapber....... .... Carole Laugicr liuesl Appt•arances....... Tasmanian Devil, K..T. the: fronticrswoman 'Uama Pama 
livin' in Houston, Pkhcr the undertaker. 
Dzavt· tht· Irish railroad worker. Billy Shears and Sgl. Peppers l.onety Hearts 
Cluh Band. mine friend. Suzanne and 
Kt·\'in wilh th~ answers 

Quote oftbe Day HI·HOSILVER!! AWAY!! What u•ould you say if I sang out of tune....... . 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) is pubhshl!d Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatoon penods The ObMrver 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College. SubscnpiiOns may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Obeerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Obeerver IS a member of The Anocl.ted Preu. All 
reproduction nghts are reserved. 
The Observer Tuesday, October 4, 1983 -page 3 
New cornputer to ease load 
By ELIZABETH FLOR 30/81 and will be installed over because they thought a conversion News Staff Christmas break. It will be able to system would be too "traumatic" a support approximately 125 users at change. Conversion would mean 
The University's largest computer one time. both faculty and students would system, the IBM 370/168-1, will be have to learn an entirely new system replaced before the start of next Although the administration ap­before the computer could be as semester. productive as the old system.
proved the purchase last year, the The new system will provide 
transaction of a multi-million dollar greater efficiency for a larger num­
machine is a long process of weigh­ber ofcomputer users. 
ing "capability versus cost" to 

Weldon also prefers IBM because
The current system has terminals 
achieve optimum features. in most of the buildings on campus, 
the company is local. IBM will nolt only deliver the system, but install it 
but lacks efficiency because of the Donald Weldon, Assistant Direc­continual overload from up to 80 tor of Hardware and Sofrware, said 
within five days. "It is a challenge to users. the University had also considered 
put in a new system," Weldon said. The new IBM system will be the Amdhal V6 or the Amdhal VB, 
"It usually works great, but the rare either an IBM 30/33 or an IBM but ultimately, they chose the IBM 
cases must be fiXed immediately." 
Gunmen •attack Lebanese positions as Mideast truce deterioriates 
Associated Press fire at midmorning. The shooting cause preliminary efforts by stopped after 30 minutes, Rowe said, mediators have not overcome the 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Gunmen but it was unclear who was respon­new difficultks that arose from the fired mortars and rocket grenades at sible. need to choose a new venue," a Lebanese army positions Monday, It was the first time ·the Marines statement from his office said after forcing Marines deployed neru·by to serving with the multinational force the Cabinet meeting. scamper into bunkers and fm:holes patrolling Beirut went into their It also said the Cabinet issued a on maximum alert for the firs1: time maximum state of alert since the warning, apparently aimed at in a week-old truce. cease-fire took effect. Jumblatt and his eight-man commit­
In another flare-up later in the. Several hours afterward, Ain Rum­tee in the mountain area controlled day, army tanks fired at Shiite Mos­maneh residents said the Lebanese by his Progressive Socialist Party lem militia positions in a southern army began firing tank cannons in at­militia. The Cabinet said those par­slum after the Shiites fired mortar tempts to stop Shiite gunmen in the ticipating in the reconciliation con­rounds and rocket grenades toward nearby Shiya slum from shooting ference "should not become Associated Pr·ess ranking member of the Armed the Christian-populated area of Ain mortars and grenades at Christian captives of military or ad­Services Committee. Rummeneh. targets. ministrative conditions dictated by INDIANAPOLIS A military Stratton suggested a reservist sys­
President Am in Gemayel called an Army sources said fighting started one party." draft, or a variation, is crucial if the tem similar to that of Switzerland, emergency Cabinet session, saying after Shiite fighters allied with Druse Gemayel's administration has United Statc:s is to maintain a where draftees train for four to five procedural disputes have stymied militiamen in the mountains began denounced Jumblatt's creation of a "credible deterrent" against the months, then are called up annually his efforts to convene a national sniping at army positions. "civic administration committee" in Soviet Union, a member of the U.S. for reserve training until the age of reconciliation conference among Gemayel's administration has said the Chouf Mountain district, calling House Armed Services Committee 43. Lebanon's feuding sects. The delay it is willing to hold at least the it a Syrian-backed attempt to parti­said Monday. A reservist system, if not the two­has threatened to further unravel opening session of the reconcilation tion the country. Rep. Samuel Stratton, D.-N.Y., told year service period of the Vietnam the civil war truce that begar Sept. conference in Saudi Arabia, but that But Jumblatt said his civil ad­I,500 delegates of the National era, is necessary "if we are to mount 
26. site is opposed by Syria, which has mtmstration is "purely of an Guard's national convention at In­a credible deterrent to the Soviet 
Marine spokesman Warrant Of­backed Druse leader Walid administrative nature to help the dianapolis that the nation's military Union," Stratton said. ficer Charles Rowe said about 30 Jumblatt's leftist Druse militia in the population cope with water, electric manpower must be increased. He said Guard and reserve units Marines of Charlie Company went civil war. power and food shortages." He "We've got to face up very shortly receive better equipment and on "condition one," when Lebanese "President Gemayel told the mini­denied he wanted to break up to establishing some kind of draft to supplies than in the past, when army positions just south of Beirut sters the date ofholding the national Lebanon, saying it is "too small to be get more people into the military budget cuts were often made first international airport came under dialogue has not been set yet be-partitioned." service," said Stratton, the third-those units. 
8'38(?D,·t~jet..Avc...,~e 

Chicago teachers· ·d·ecide to strike 
ve.:;ct~'·i~..-, ~ "..,c._,t 

..... ~'s4es ... Associated Press The Chicago Teachers Union, first-year teacher with a bachelor's along with the district's 18 other degree is paid S13,770.leb~..-,ese-st;le 5/'·Ds CHICAGO -Striking teachers, unions, set up picket lines after talks "If we only talk about a salary in­joined by otherschool workers, shut ending late Sunday failed to produce crease, it could be a short strike,"
CZ,e''5?tf~' r~sh·ks 

down the nation's third-largest sys­a settlement in the pay dispute. The said Chicago Teacher's llnion presi­tem Monday in a pay dispute, while 27,000 teachers had voted last dent Robert Healey, sporting a strike ra~ sh...Cfe~ s~..-,~t-Vic4es officials offered supervised games, month to strike unless they received sign that read "eliminate waste."
II 288-)639 cut-rate museum admission and more money. But if Schools Superintendent radio lectures to keep 420,000 stu­The average teacher's salary is Ruth Love "insists on pre­dents learning and off the streets. 525,530 a year plus benefits, and a conditions, it could be a long strike," 
said Healey, who called for elimina­tion of 500 administrative jobs. 
The union leader said the board should "come to the contract table, take off the givebacks and we will negotiate a salary increase that will be fair to everyone." 
Said Ms. Love: "we cannot reach the demands of the union without some concessions." 
For the fiscal year that began Sept. I, the system has a balanced budget of $1.4 billion, almost all ofwhich is already allocated, according to Rufus Glasper, director for financial planningand budget for the schools. 
Talks resumed Monday afternoon. 
School and city officials responded to the walkout with a net­work of alternative classes and recreation programs for the dis­trict's 420,000 students. 
A telephone information service attracted more than 800 callers be­tween 6 and 10 a.m., said spokes­womanjoanna Brown. 
Observer note__, 
The Obsert,er incorrLctly reported yesterday that 1983 An Tostal Chairman Jay Reidy was a 1983 graduate. He is not a graduate. 

The Observer/Can)lt" Lau~er 

Maryann Whalen andjean DeVita enjoy some friendly chit-chat in the Snack Shoppe in the new
Chit-chat 
Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. 
Houtse rep proposes improved draft system 

The 0 bserver Tuesday, October 4, 1983 -page 4 

Whatever gets you through the night 

Thirty-three candidates battling for Senate seat of Henry Jackson 
Associated Press 
OLYMPIA, Wa~h. -Tht: hattll' for 
the St·nalt: .o;eat ofSen. I knr}· M. Jack­
son has turnt·d out to ht: a frontier­
styk politkal ~hootout with one hig 
gun -Dan Evans, tht· man who now 
ha~ tht· st·at hy appointment. 
A record :B t·andidates an: vying 
ti>r the top spot in the Oct. I I 
primary, with hoth Rt:puhlicans and 
Demouats saying control of the U.S. 
St·nate after the I'JH4 elections 
could hinge on what Washington 
voters decide this fall. 
Some political ohservers are even 
calling the t:lection an t•arly referen­
dum on Prt:sidt:nt Reagan's perfor­
mance with tht: Democratic 
front-runnt·rs spending more time 
l·astigating Reagan and Interior 
Seuetary James Watt than the 
Rt:puhlkan candidates. 
"This is tht: first ekction of I'JH4," 
says Pil-rce County Democratic 
Chairman Ron Culpt·pper. 
Evans, a popular former three­
tt·rm Repuhlit·an governor who has 
the 11nancial support of stu:h major 
local industries as Boeing and 
Wt:yerhausn, is considered a good 
ht:t to win the five years remaining 
oflkmocrat Jackson's term. Jackson 
dit:d St·pt. I. 
"Scoop Jackson's shoes will he 
mij.:hty hard to fill. hut I hope to do 
my ht·st," Evans said. "I will run my 
own campaign, on my own record 
and not rt·ally try to fill those same 
shoes." 
When the: state: attorney gent:ral rulnl that the: vacancy would have to he filll'd this fall. not I'JH·t as most ohst-rvers had expected, the state l.egislaturt· mt:t in t·mergency ses­sion to ueatt-a primary on Oct. I I. 
In Washington, voters do not rcgistt:r by party and may vote for any candidate on the hallot. One Dc:monat and ont: Rt:puhlican will advanlT to the finals. If tht· Socialist Worker candidate: gt·ts I pt:rcent of the primary vote, ht·. !Oo, will he on the Nov. H hallot. 
Evans fan·s his strongt·st Rt:publkan opposition from Lloyd Cooney, a conservative former TV commentator and executivt:. Two liherab, Seattll' Map•r Charles Royer and U.S. Ikp. Mike Lowry, also of Seattle, are considered Democratic front-runnt:rs. 
Evans, ';7, served as governor from 11)6<; to 1977. After deciding not to st-ek re-c:kction, he hecame president of The: Evergrt-cn State: Collt-gc: here:. 
A statt:wide po.ll of 600 voters by Consumn Opinion Rest'arch for KIRO-TV in mid-St:ptemher said Evans was the choice of <;H pt·rcc:nt of tht· respondc:nts. Royer was second at I H percent and Lowry 
trailed at I I percent. Cooney had 6 
percent. 
Evans regarded former New York 
(}ov. Ndson Rockefeller as his politi­
cal mc:ntor and frequently criticized 
Reagan when both were governors. 
Evans hackt·d President Ford against 
Reagan in 11)76 and was frozen out 
of the state's national convention 
delegation as a result. Evans hacked 
George Bush for the GOP nomina­
tion in 19HO. 
"There are three liherals running and one conservative," said Coont'y, 
60. "I'm the only candidate who embraces what ScoopJackson did in terms of warning about the dangers of the Soviet Union and supporting 

1715 wos the year the 9th ond 12th 'Dragons were formed. They become lancers by 1816. then were omolgomoted 1n 1960. For 268 years the1r trod1t1on of excellence wos known 1n England, but now that some regmentol spnt hos settled. os o mantle. upon o unique South Bend solon. 
THE ROYAL LANCER 
Universtty Commons Courtyard [SR. 23 between Ribordy's and rempo) 
Walk-Ins are welcome Weekdays 9-6 Saturday 9·3 

Men ond Women's Ho1rstyllng 272-7880 

The Notre Dame Gaming Club is sponsoring the 1st annual 
University Backgammon Tournament 
Registration is Wed. Nov. 5 at 7:00·pm Room 204 O'Shag 
Entry fee is $1 for non-members, $.50 for members. Games will be played every Friday and Saturday night. Prizes will be given for---.~ ...,, 1st, 2nd, and 3rd places. 
For more information call Pres. Tony 1645 
. .' ·~ 

the president and his national defense efforts." 
Evans was a big spender as gover­
nor and pushed for a state income 
tax, Cooney says. He calls Evans soft 
on the Soviets because of his 
questioning of the defense budget. 
Jackson, who easily won re­election to a sixth term last year, left no heir-apparent and neither of the Democratic front-runners shares his strong positions on national defense and the Soviet Union. 
Royer often invokes the names of 
Jackson and former Sen. Warren G. Magnuson. He rips Reagan and tells audiences it's important to elect a Democrat to the Senate position. 
Marcos asks for unity; will not use riot troops 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines -President Ferdinand E. Marcos made con­ciliatory overtures to his opponents Monday and told them if they did not unite with him, "we will lose the country." 
The embattled president again rejected demands for his resignation 
and  elections,  saying  this  would  
plunge  the  country  into  "bitter  
political fighting."  

Meeting for the second day in a row with business leaders he had thrt:atened to arrest for demonstrat­ing against him, he said he would not use riot troops or other security forces against demonstrators in the Makati financial center on the south side ofGreater Manila. 
He told the businessmen they would police the demonstrators to keep out "radical elements and saboteurs" and would also have to clean up after them, since he was withdrawing street sweepers from the district of high-rise office build­ings, shopping malls and hotels. 
A press release said Marcos also ordered the formation of Cabinet "liaison groups" to conduct dialogues with businessmen, labor leaders, the Roman Catholic Church, the academic community and youth. 
In other developments: 

-President Reagan, after weeks of criticism of his plans to visit Manila despite allegations that the Marcos regimr was involved in the assassination of Benigno Aquino, canceled his plans to visit Manila during his Asian tour next month. He also canceled stops in Indonesia and Thailand, leaving Japan and 
South Korea on the tour. He blamed the press of congressional business for the change in plans. 
Marcos on Sunday retreated from his adamant insistence that Reagan go through with the visit. He said it would be a setback if the visit was 
Organizational Meeting for 
COLLEGIATE dAZZ FESfiVAL 
All are welcome Tuesday, Oct. 4 8:00 P.'A J; Chautauqua Ballroom • 
Restaurant Opportunities 
Are Awaiting You At The New 
NANCY'S WINDY CITY OPENING SOON 
Seeking responsible individuals 
for the following postions: *Pizza Makers *Cooks 
Bartenders *Food Servers *Bussers *Dishwashers *Co'Cktail Servers 
Apply in Person *Hosts/Hostesses Monday thru Friday *Delivery Personnel 
. n..-.t. 3-0ct. 7 

t! ~......-:-At 
NANCY'S WINDY CITY 
2046 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 miiJutes from Notre Dame 

canceled, but "the primary con­sideration is the safety of President Reagan ... and this must be decided by President Reagan and his ad­visers." 
Most of the 22,000 Filipinos employed at the six American military bases struck for higher wages, hut labor leaders said the strike was not politically motivated. 
Undergrad grant awards announced 
Special to The Observer 

The National Endowment for the Humanities has announced a new grants program for indiuiduals un­der 21 to carry out :heir own non­credit humanities research projects during the summer of 1984. The Younger Scholars Program will award up to I00 grants nationally for outstanding research and writing projects in such tields as history, philosophy and the study of literature. The projects will he carried out during the summer of 
1984. The application is Nov.  15,  
1983.  
Award  recipients  will  he  ex­ 

pected to work full time for nine weeks during the summer, research­ing and writing a humanities paper under the close supervision of a humanities scholar. This is not a financial aid program, and no academic credit should he sought for the projects. 
A hooklet of guidelines and ap­plication instructions should he available for photocopying at the campus student placement office, or write to: Younger Scholars Guidelines, Room 426, The National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, D.C. 20506. 

Tuesday, October 4, 1983 -page 5



~Science 

Controlled burnout to recover energy proposed fOr mine 
from Discover Magazine away, on the understanding that public funds would underwrite Nobody in Centralia is sure just relocation costs. when the fire began, or how. Yet moving may provide a way to 
It may have started on its own in convert the mines from a nuisance the 1930s and burned underground and a hazard into a source ofincome for years, unnoticed. Or it may have and energy. This summer the U.S. started in I962, when a burning Bureau of Mines patented a tech­trash heap ignited an abandoned nique called controlled burnout to mine near the Odd Fellow!i encourage burning in abandoned Cemetery at the edge oftown. mines to retrieve their energy. As a 
Whatever its origin, the fire unde:: result, Centralia may become a the central Pennsylvania com-laboratory for new technology. munity of 900 has been burning for For 21 years, attempts to stop the decades. By this summer it had fire have been hampered by lack of embraced a 195-acre network of money, bureaucratic tangles and op­coal seams and mine tunnels, its heat position from Centralians who rising through the earth to wither wanted to believe that the fire vegetation, its toxic fumes traveling would burn itself out without through abandoned shafts anti disrupting their lives. AJ; with the seeping upward through th·~ more than 500 other fires burpingin fractured earth into basements anti coal deposits and waste heaps across living rooms. the United States today, the only way 
Every effort to drown, smother 01: to ensure it will be put out is to ex­even contain the blaze has failed. In cavate: dig, no matter how deep, August, Centralia's property owner:; remove and extinguish all traces of finally surrendered to the blaze burning rubble, and refill the gaping below. In a referendum, they voted pit. to abandon their home and mov•e In Centralia that pit would have to be several hundred feet deep, which would mean removing more than 93 million cubic.yards ofcoal, rock and earth -as well-as every structure and every man, woman and child in the area. The cost would be prohibitive: the estimate was up­ward of S633 million, more than six times that ofprevious calculations. 

Experience has shown that other methods are ineffectual for a fire like Centralia's. 
Unlike most coal in the United States, which lies in flat beds, the anthracite, or hard coal, of the Ap­palachians is folded into veins that dip and rise thousands of feet under the earth, sometimes almost verti­cally. The outbreaks seemed to cir­cumvent barriers erected against the fires, perhaps by following deeper paths. By 1980, seven families had to move because in­spectors found carbon monoxide in their houses. Nearby boreholes registered temperatures as high as 
I,000 degrees Fahreliheit. In houses closest to the fire, the Bureau of Mines installed carbon 


A resident ofthe Centralia, Pennsylvania area in­became too high. In someparts oftown, the detec­
spects the carbon monoxide det~ctor in her base­tors go offsix times a week, forcing residents to ment. Seven families were for£·ed to leave their vent thefumes by opening their windows, even in homes in 1980 when carbon monoxide levels the dead ofwinter. 
BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar CollegE~ CeQ!_er, offers free checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students'"fmd faculty. 
In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banldng Hours • Monday through Friday 
M(:>n. thru Thurs. 11:30 a.m. -3:30 p.m. Friday 11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Join Michlcma's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 
ttl ~source... ~Bank 
Member F.D.I.C. 

monoxide detectors. When the alarms sound (half a dozen times a week in some houses) the residents are advised to vent the gases by opening their windows a hardship during Pennsylvania's cold winters. 
Bleak as the immediate conse­quences are, abandoning the town may open the way fior a technologi­cal innovation that, could provide a long-term boon to' Centralia. Even when a coal bed is completely worked, an abandoned mine retains at least 50 percent of its coal. With this in mind, the Bureau ofMines has proposed producing useful energy by creating, in effect, ahuge natural furnace. 
This summer, the bureau patented a techniqu.e that would ac­tually accelerate the combustion: such controlled burnout could use the fire to produce heat and electricity at a profit, helping to cover the costs of relocation. What is more, by fanning the flames, con­trolled burnout coulld end mine fires much sooner than they would die out on their own. 
In a controlled burnout, accord­ing to Robert Chaiken, the Bureau of Mines researcher who developed the process, a 350-horsepower motor operating an exhaust fan can 
Particle accelerator aids n1uclear research 
Editor's Note: This i's thefirst oftwo articles on the Not1·e Dame Particle Accelerator, whicb is housed in Nieuwland Scien-ce Hall. This week's article deals with the history ofnuclear researcb at Notre Dame. 
By CHRISTINA BIRD 
Science Writer 
All physical science deals ul­timately with the interaction of mat­ter and energy on the atomic level. Particle physics, then, is at the nucleus of all of modern science: high energy physics, exploring the realm of elementary particle; and low and medium energy physics, dealing with atomic structure. 
Unknown to most of the faculty and students at Notre Dame, the Physics Department Nuclear Structure Laboratory has been at the forefront of nuclear structure physics since the 1930s, when the first electron accderator was built in the Engineering Department. It was used to study x-radiation and bremsstrahlung, radiation released upon the acceleration ofan electron or other charged particle (epecially when it collides with some other charged particle, such as the atomic 
nucleus). 
It was followed!, during the next 
three decades, by three more ac­
celerators, all built for the general 
purpose of studying nuclear 
structure. Around 1940, a two­
million volt accelerator -one 

capable of imparting two million 
electron volts of energy to an 
electron beam -· was installed in 
the Old Science Building (now the 
poolroom of LaFortune Student 
Center). It was used until the 
completion of Nieuwland Science 
Hall in 1953­
Both the third and fourth ac­
celerators acquired by the Physics 
Department are :still being used in 
one form or ano1ther. The third, an 
accelerator which runs at between 
3.5 and five million volts, is current­ly used as the injector for the tan­dem accelerator. The fourth, purchased in 1968 from High Volt· age Engineering, is the tandem ac­celerator itself. 

L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--·-----­
draw the hot products of combus­tion from as much as 30 acres of un­derground mine workings through a single point at a rate of2S,OOO cubic feet per minute. 
Air feeds the fire through natural fractures and crevices in the ground and through specially drilled inlets. The fire travels in the direction of the fresh air supply, and burns out when the coal has been completely consumed. Because fumes from the fire emerge only through the ex­haust fan, they are easily controlled. 
Moreover, when anthracite is burned completely, its byproducts -carbon dioxide and water -are harmless. Any impurities, such as sulfur, can be removed at the single exhaust point. Nothing in the system goes to waste: it can also be used to burn above-ground waste banks, leaving an iron-containing residue that can be used as gravel or to fill abandoned mines. And the mobile generating system can be moved to other fire sites. 
Centralia is one of the few boroughs in the country to own the mineral rights beneath it. IfCentraliz can remain an entity on paper, then those rights could remain with the borough. If so, Centralians stand to make a fortune. But for those af­fected, that is too far ahead to look. 
The tandem is called such because it is capable of accelerating an ion beam twice with its terminal voltage. It functions by creating a separation ofcharge such as on a Van de Graaff generator common in Physics. The ions under considera­tion enter the tandem at a velocity of about one percent of the speed of light (three million meters per second). The high-pressure voltage on the terminal attracts the negatively charged beam, giving it an initial energy of nine million electron volts ( meV). The beam passes through a thin carbon foil; the collisions within the foil remove electrons on the ions to give the beam a high positive charge. This positive charge is now strongly repelled by the terminal voltage, boosting the beam to its highest energy, approximately 54meV. 
As the name implies, the Nuclear Structure Lab probes the interior of the atom, using the information gained in electron-nucleus colli­sions to determine nuclear structure. Many people are aware of the protons and neutrons which form the atomic nucleus; fewer are aware of the fact that those sub­nuclear particles move in orbits, defined by characteristics such as energy and angular momentum. 
Besides the value of the pure theoretical knowledge, the study of nuclear physics has had many practi­cal applications. These include im­provements . in nuclear power, nuclear medicine and biophysics, semiconductors and solid state tech­nology, agriculture and hybrid development, measurement devices, and detectors ofseveral dif ferent types. 
The Nuclear Structure Laboratory has won financial support from the federal government since the end of the Second World War, and is cur­rently one of only eight college facilities with such support. The navy financed the development of nuclear power techniques and ac­companying theory at the end ofthe war. In 1963, the National Science Foundation picked up the grant to further the study of nuclear physics at Notre Dame. 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 4, 1983-page 6


Vieweoint 
Keeping the world safe and confused 
Once upon a time, there were no American 'combat troops in Lebanon. Then I,600 Marines were sent there to keep the peace. but they stayed even when there was no peace to keep. To help them keep the peace that was not thc·re, an aircraft carrier was brought up. 
Richard Cohen 
Richard Cohen Column 
and soon it wa~ authorized to fire at those who 
were firing at the Marines who were there to 
keep the peace that did nt)t exist. 
And once upon a time, there were no American combat troops in Central America. Then there were S5 military advisors in El Sal· vador and then 5,000 troops on a training ex· ercise in Honduras and then a fleet off both coasts of Nicaragua, which was being attacked by an army of exiles created and financed by the United :•tates, which was an area to keep 
pt.·an·. 
This wa.' all very confusing to the people of the United States, but its leaders kept saying tht·y had a plan. The chiefleader was the Presi· 

dent, who called the army ofexiles "freedom 
fighters" even though some of them once 
fought for a ruthless dictator, He frequently 
talked that way. On the Middle East, for in­
stance, he once said that Israeli settlements on 
the West Bank were legal when the State 
Department said they were not, then called 
for a halt in their construction anyway. 
This, though, was just the beginning. The President fired his secretary ofstate, chose an economist as his successor and took as his na­tional security adviser a state judge with al­most no experience in foreign affairs. The President then announced a peace plan for the Middle East and promptly went on a short vacation. It hardly mattered. Everyone rejected the plan anyway. 
Then the new secretary ofstate dispatched a Middle East negotiator. The negotiator said he would go to a lot of places, among them Syria, but he did not check with them and they would not let him in. 
Ever-optimistic anyway, the secretary of state predicted Syria would pull out of Lebanon and was chagrined to find that it would not. Instead it helped escalate the Civil War, endangering the lives ofthe Marines who were there to keep the peace that did not exist. The President explained this by saying that after years of incredibly bloody civil war in Lebanon, he did not think it would resume with such vehemence. He talked that way. 
In Central America, the new President sacked all the old ambassadors, replact:d them with his own men, chose a career diplomat with no experience in the region to run policy and then, after a while, fired him. Then he chose a defeated senator with right-wing credentials to negotiate with the left-wing rebels in Central America and sent him offto a meeting that did not take place. When one finally did, nothing happened. 
None of this chagrined either the President or his top aides. When it came to Lebanon, for instance, they said they did not want Congress to tie their hands. They would go their own way, thank you, and then they all got dis­tracted by the downing of a Korean civilian airliner which was very serious, but not so serious that anything serious had to be done about it. 
Meanwhile, the Central American negotiator seemed to have flown off the edge of the world. He was hardly heard from. Also not heard from were the Libyan hit squad which had entered the country of America to kill its leaders. The leaders yelled and screamed and increased security, but the hit squad hit nobody and may still be circling the Washington beltway, looking for a way to get off. 
All of this was very compelling news and 
made everyone forget that the first order of 
business for the administration was to deal 
with international terrorism. It set up an 
agency to handle it, talked about it a lot, and 
then seemed to forget it -just like the peace 
plan and the Central American negotiator. 

Meanwhile, the Marines stayed in Lebanon to keep a peace that did not exist, and the fleet stayed off both coasts of Nicaragua, and the army of exiles the United States established was doing nothing. And when a CBS Poll asked the American people what they thought ofthe 
government's Central American policy, they said they were confused. The plan was working. 
(c) 1983, The Washinton Post Company 

P. 0. BoxQ 
McGovern 
l>ear Editor: 
In suggt·sting that (;corgc McGovern is un­
fit for the Presidt·ncy, Max Lerner draws the 
right conclusion from the wrong premises. 
Tht· problem with McGovt·rn is not his 
policies, hut rather his personality (or lack 
thneof). In fact, the Amnican public will in­
evitably judge him to he as bland and 
homogenized as the other half-dozen conten­
ders for tht· Democratic Presidential nomina­
tion. 
It is precisely this absence of Democratic charisma whi<:h threatens to saddle us with four more years of Ronald Reagan as Presi­dent; for, despite the generally bankrupt policies oftht· present Administration, Reagan is blessed with a genial and attractive personal rt·sponsibility for the many blunders ofhis ad­mini t stration. 
To my mind, the most plausible remedy is that Senator Edward Kennedy he persuaded to run for tht· Presidency in 19H4. Kennedy remains, in the eyes of millions of Americans, tht· most serious, imaginative and outspoken cnttc of the Reagan Administration. Mort·ovt·r. he is the only figure on the lkmonatic horizon who possesses the color and forn.· of personality required to awaken a vaguely discontented public and to rally them lwhind a sut'l'cssful t·ffort to oust Ronald lkagan from tht· Whitt· House. Kennedy also 
continues to incarnate the hopes enkindled by his brothers John and Robert, hopes for a Prt·sidency once again committt·d to new pos­sibilities of justkc in this country and new possibilitit·s of peace throughout the world. 
Ret•. Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B. 


John Paul II 
Dear Editor: 
Keith Picht·r's article, "John Paul II and the 
U.S. Catholic," does not dcal justly with one of tht· greatest moral and intellectual leaders of this century. Isolating the Pope's thirty­minute address to American bishops from its 1rut· contt·xt, Picher launches into the ho-hum harangue about "old unmarried men" who worry too much "about sexual problems to 

the exclusion of more serious evils" such as nuclear war, economic injustice and militarism. This allegation simply ignores what the Pope has actually written and proclaimed during the five years of his pontif­icate. In fact, no other international leader of thc world today has spoken more frequently or more emphatically against these very social and political evils than hasJohn Paul II. 
The Pope's balanced moral leadership rests upon a broad and deep perspective which acknowledges man in his totality, a perspcctive which frees him from the ethical and intellectual fads which emphasize psy­
chological concerns one day and social con­cerns the next. When, for example, the Pope speaks of the slavery caused by masturbation, contraception, premarital sex and homosexuality, he simply reminds us that we must strive to order ourselves at least as much as we strive to order the social and economic dimension of life to the exclusion of another -and here lies the real challenge and depth of the Catholic ideal which he sets forth so well. 
One last point: ifJohn Paul II does not un­derstand the "U.S. Church," he is actively opposing the Holy Spirit who placed him at the head of the Universal Church. By "coincidence"John Paul II made an extensive visit to this country just two years before his election as Pope. During his stay, he visited cities large and small and lectured at Harvard and other universities. In addition, the Pope was a prominent leader at the Second Vatican Council, where he met many American 
leaders, lay and clerical, and he has cultivated these friendships over the past twenty years. 
Instead of expecting the Pope to "open (his) eyes a bit wider," perhaps we should strive to broaden our perspective more. 
Gerard WeRemrr 
Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor ts subject to the daily constraints of the page. They must bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author(initials andpseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Letters must be well written and typed. Material shorter than 250 words will receive priority. All letters are subject to editing and become the property of The Ob­
server. 
&OOD. ~El W"AT T"L DlMO<.RATS Alll UP TO OVLR AT TlttiR "LAI>OUARTLRS. GtT LIOOV ON IT. 
DMJK yOU, DICK I BOT VE Sl~M TO BE STRAIJING fROM Of.R SUBJtC.T. 

Department Managers 
Obset:Ver=======!~!!~:~~e~-~a~~ ..........David Dziedzic 

/lox{!. NNre name. IN ·16556 (.! I'J) .!3'l· 5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
/he• Oh.wrr•er •~ the imkpt·mknt new~papt·r puhlbhnlln the studt·nt~ of the Uni Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas n·r"IY ol Notrt· l>amt· du l.ac ami -.ami \1an··~ College It docs not net't'~~arilv reflect News Editor . .............."':'. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen tht· poliut·~ ol tht· adnuni~tration ol t•itht-r m~titution. The ncw~ i~ reported a~ at·· News Editor . ................. (\1ark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzauuc i...a Croix ntratd\· and a~ ohjtTt ivdv a~ po~~ihlt-I n~igncd nlitoriab rcpre~t·nt tht· opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... A~19n>nasfyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miollo matonty oltht· hlitonal Board <:omnll'ntarie~. It-ucr~. and the ln~idt· Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamilto11 
System Manager ............... Kevin Williams 
tht· \'it·w, ol their ;Hit hor' ( .olumn 'pace i., ;n allahk to allmemht·rs oft he cornrnunin·. Photo Editor .................... Scoll Bower and tht· frn· t·,.pn·"um of' .trvin~ opinion~ on campu~. through kiln'. i~ cnnlllragcd. .\jmrts Editor... ..\1ithael Sullivan Founded November 3, 1966 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will hold its first meeting tomorrow, October 5, at 7 p.m. in the third floor gymnastics room of the Rockne Memorial. For further details, contact Pat Toole at 277·7571 or Matt Kelleher at 1206. -The Ob­server 
Steve Beuerllein, Notre Dame's.starting quarterback, will be the guest on Speaking ofSports at 10 p.m. tonight on WSND­AM 64. 1fyou h;l'le any questions or comments, call in at 239-6400. 
-The Observer 
The ND-SMC Sailing Clubfinishedsecondoutof a fleld of thirteen at the 63rd Cary-Price Regatta at the University of Michigan. Tom Fink and Dan Dressel outsailed all the top sailors in the Midwest, with only the sailors from Navy beating therr by three points. There will also be a meeting for team members at 6:30 p.m. tomorrow at the boathouse. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Women's GoH team will have a short meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Corby Hall. Those who cannot attend should calljulie. -The Observer 
The Fellowslhlp of Christian Athletes will be meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All are invited to attend. -rhe Observer. 
Saint Mary's basketball tryouts will start Sunday, October 9 from 1-3 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. ­
The Observer 
The Wometlt's Soccer Club of Notre Dame travelled to Michigan hwt Saturday and defeated Ferris State College by a score of 12-0. Letty Valdez got a hat trick for the Irish, while Beth Noland and Mary Borkowski each added two goals. Other goal scorers were Michelle Grace, Helen Locher, Susan Gordon, Kerry Havercamp, and Angela Eggleston. -The Obseroer 
All interested in officiating either women's flag football orsoccer, please stop by the Non-Varsity Athletics office or call at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Tuesday, October 4, 1983 -page 7 
Doesn't relax 
Lasorda a'~ts in typical fashion 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -When the players h•e had managed in the 
Los Angeles Dodgers clinched the minors. 
1983 National League West Division This year, the club had traded championship, Manager Tom veteran surs Steve Garvey and Ron Lasorda acted in typical Tom Cey, mov•ed Pedro Guerrero from Lasorda fashion. the outfield to third base, and put 
The ebullient, expansive Lasorda youngsters Mike Marshall and Greg didn't relax on learning that the San Brock into the starting lineup. Diego Padres had defeated the At· "He had them working long into 
lanta Braves, giving the Dodgers the the evening and even turned on title. lights," said Amalfitano. "That's "I figured we finally had our first probably the hardest they've 
chance to let doVI.'Il and there he was worked in the spring." up there shouting, encouraging and The 56-year-old Lasorda has spent managing," said coach joe Amal· 
34 years in the Dodgers' organiza­tion and claims he "bleeds Dodger blue" and frequently exhorts "the Big Dodger in the Sky." 
He pitched 11 years, mostly for Montreal of the International League, but did have three stints with the major league club. He laughs whe saying his career as a Dodgers' player ended only because of the arrival of Sandy Koufax, the left-bander who went on to the 
Baseball Hall ofFame. 

fitano, recalling. the sixth inning ofr--------------------------------, 
last Friday night's game against the 1D, I tb II 
San Francisco Giants at Dodger IDas ~e a ticket distribution 
Stadium. 

When Lasorda did relax a little, as the Dodgers were leading San Fran­cisco 3·0 en route to a 4-3 victory, he marshaled his players out of the dugout for a hat-waving thanks to the fans. 
"The umpire (Bob Engel) came over and asked me to make it quick," said Lasorda "I told him we waited 160 games to do this and he could wait a couple ofminutes." 
Lasorda had his way with the ump this time. 
Looking back, this year might have been Lasorda's best job of managing even though his 1981 team won the World Series and he was named NL manager ofthe Year. 
"This began as probably his poorest team," said long-time Dodgers' broadcaster Vin Scully. "And still he motivated it. It was a very poor team even into August and he rallied them, showing patience and exasperation -a typical father. He moved them." 
In his previous six seasons, after succeeding Walter Alston, Lasorda 
Oct.tO -Seniors Oct.ll-Juniors Oct.l~~-Sophomores/Graduate/Law students Oct.13 -Freshmen 
What's Happening 
TODAY field hockey at Franklin SMC volleyball vs. Bethel 6p.m. Angela Athletic Facility SMC tennis vs. Manchester 
TOMORROW field hockey at Goshen 
L----------·--------------------~ worked primarily with veterans or 
Tbe Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4-:30 p.m., Monday through Friday_ The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall ~ment is open from noon to 3 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, tither in person or through the maiL Charge is ten cents per seven dlarac­tcrs,pcrday.


Classifieds 

NOTICES 

Experienced Typist will do typirg. Reasonable 'ales. Call287·5162. 
2001 Thurs& Fn 7,9:30.12 PM Kof C Hall $1. Members Free 
LOST: GOLD BRACELET ON 9/25 IN LIRARY PERIODICAL ROOM OR FROM LIBRARY TO BREEN-PHILLIPS. SEN­TIMENoAL VALUE. PLEASE C~.LL MARYBETH AT 12771F FOUND. 
LOST! one gold Aries medal •·~h diamond stud. Please contact Tim at ~*"'2 (ST. Ed's, 308). 
LOST: Key chain w/6 keys on a green floatong boat key chain. 8239. 
LOST: Annotated New Oxford Bible, eft beh•nd •n Monday 9/26 al 2:30 p.m in Room 328 Computer Center/Math Bu ld· ing. Piease return to office of Lost/FOllnd (Administration Building). Thanks. Ber­nard Deprez. 
LOST: LADIES MAROON WALLET CONTAINING $,DRIVEil'S LICENSE,PHOTOS, OTHER ID. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LAURA AT 29~9. 
LOST: roll ol Film. 135-24exp. 400 A!iA. Lost at South dining hall pictures are ir· replacable, please call Ubby at -3435 
FOR RENT ] 

FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO rm 
~773604 
wanted 2 roomates for N.D. apts. call 2349116 or 1101 
WANTED 
Responsible babysitter needed part time days for infant and three year old in my home just north of campus. Sitter wrth own child ok. Call Jennifer 239-7278 Mon· Fri. 
Thanksgiving In Maine: If you're plan· ning a trip to Boston or north for Thanksgiving and have a spare seat in your r.ar. give me a call at 283-8866 or 239·7471, please iKeith). 
CINCINNATIICINCINNATI!CINCINNATI! I Desperately need a nde to Cincinnati this weekend. Will share usuals. Call DAVE at 1165. 
RIDE needed to EAST LANSING Friday,Oct ?.Please call David at 1105. 
RIDERS NEEDED DAYTON, OH 10/06­10/09 CALL DAVE 234·0537 
FOR SALE 
EXOTIC PETS -snakes, lizards, 1ur11es, taran1ulas, amphibians, birds, mam­mals. Largest selection In U.S. Mfd.. west Reptile, 1520 Mishawaka Ave., 232-2095. 2 mi. from N.D. 
For Sale:NEW Wilson Staff irons ... $350 Call Larry ... 1638 
AVAILABLE: 2 USC tix. Call (215) 238­9052 after 5 pm. 
FOR SALE: COMPLETE HOCKEY GEAR· CCII HELMET BAUER JUNIOR SUPREME SKATES, SIZE 6 GLOVES, PANTS, SHOULDER PADS. SOCKS & GARTER BELT. $50.00 FOR ALL CALL 272-7011. 
TICKETS 
Desperately need Penn State game tick· ets. Call Brian at 8795. 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 

USC-ND tix wanted. Paying most (312) 246-4650. 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC AND/OR PmOR AIR FORCE. CALLJIM AT 1501 
$$ NEED MANY US::: TIX $$ CALL SUE 284-5173 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's. CALL STEVE AT 
7980. 

Need IMMEDIATELY 2·4 GA's for Any Home Game Call Pete 1224 
Need Non-student tickets to ND vs USC. Call collect, (312) 565-5959 x2013 or x2233. 
NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR 'GOOD OL' DAD"! Please call DAVE at 8919 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL JACK AT 277· 
5408 

NEED 3 TIX FOR NAVY. CALL ED AF­TER6P.M. AT277--8111. 
Need 6 GA Pitt tix. Must be in grps. of 3 or more. 239-5845 Steve. 
REALLY,REALLY NEED 4(0R 6) TICK· ETS TO PITT GAME!!CALL BILL 1763 
Need 4NAVYGA's. CaiiMo7812orTom 3558. 
I NEED 4-6 USC GAs AND 1 USC STU· DENT TICKET: CALL PAT 1238 
HELP! MOM & DAD HAVE NEVER SEEN AN ND GAME! NEED 2 GA's FOR USC OR NAVY. CALL DEBBIE 284·4372 
NEED 2 STUD. TIX TO NAVY. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 284-4372 
Help! Need USC tix, student or GA, Call Steve at 8638 
NEED USC STUD OR GA -CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME 
Need NAVY stud.&GA's x1695 
NEED4NAVYGA'sCall Pete 3114 

Have 1 USC GA Need 1 Pitt, GA or Stud. Willing to trade. Call Tracy 277· 7232. 
Need 1 USC and 1 Navy ticket Call Amy at4684. 
I NEED 10 GA'STO THE U.S. C. GAME. WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT FOR THESE TICKETS AND THEY NEED NOT BE TO· GETHER. PLEASE CALL 1779 And ASK FOR DAN. 
NEED TWO NAVY GA'S CALL BRIAN 8656 
HELP! Parents will disown us rt we don't get them PITT TIX. Call Pat at1068 or Jeanne at284-4167. 
Need two GA's for the Pitt. game. Call Kelly 284·4074. 
I need 3 Navy GA's. Call Theresa 284· 5442 
PERSONALS 
I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. WILLING TO TRADE TICK· ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA'S. CALL JERRY AFTER6ATx1763. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SANDY! LOVE. C 
21 eh?... Hate to think about that!! 
THEO MAJORS: Don'1 miss the Infor­mal dlscusalon with ProfessorsStorey and O'Meara tomorrow -Wadnesday­81 10:00 PM in room 115 Howard Hall. 
BOOM SHROOM BOOM MUSHROOMS ARE FOR QUICHES NOT FOR CLOUDS! COME FEAST ON PEACE AT 'THE WAR WITHOUT W!NNERS" TUESDAY, OCT 4 AT 7:00 IN THE CEN­TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS SPON· SERED BY GROUND ZERO. 
T. LYLE PUT A PHONE IN YOUR BUTT. 
The next time you think of our reputation as a recruiting power. ask yourself: 
Whatever happened to Van Pearcy? 
Whatever happened to Todd Lezon? 
DOMER SIX MILE RUN-OCT. 8, 10 a.m. · sign up at NVA · T -shirts and trophies · see ad· today's Observer 
Great Science Fiction 
2001 
Thurs & Fri 
Sponsored by the K of C PAM BOMBEI IS 20 TODAY! HAVE A TERRIFIC BIRTHDAY! WITH LOVE FROM: NANCY,NANCY,TARA,SUZIE AND LAURA 
Duct and Viol, I'm concerned about the moraltty of a campus thai has a seductress and a violator of the same. I will soon see to purging your campus. This may mean Faust will have to go too. Zeus on the luse 
ALL THEOLOGY AND SOCIOLOGY 50/ OFF THIS WEEK AND NEXT AT PAN­DORA'S BOOKS. WIDE SELECTION OF NEW AND USED BOOKS, POS­TERS AND NEWSPAPERS. STOP IN AT 937 SO. BEND AVE. OR CALL 233­2342. 
FOR THE PAST 3 YEARS I HAVE SEARCHED THE PERSONALS IN HOPES OF A BIRTHDAY MESSAGE. WELL NO LONGER. I HAVE DECIDED TO TAKE MATTERS INTO MY OWN HANDS AND WRITE ONE MYSELF. HAPPY BIRTHDAY USA LOVE USA TROZZOLO P.S. 1M 21 
JEFF, TED, TOM! HOLY CROSS-THE UGLY PARTY! ONE MORE ROUND OF TURTLE! WATCH OUT·KAMIKAZESON YOUR 6-0-CLOCK' 
CORNHUSKER CLUB MEETING WED· NESDAY OCT. 5 AT 4:30 IN LAFORTUNE. STOP 
ATTN REGINA N.· for future SYR inter· views. please specify SMC with your phone (we've got plenty of our own dates, thank you) Good luck--ND x4215, 4212 
ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR ZERR 
What makes the grass grow? BLOOD! 
PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACK· ERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACK­ERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACKERS PE PACK· ERS PE PACKERS 
H's raining, ~·s pouring. my love life is boring me to tears ... 
MA-We may be dateless, but we're not desperate. T 
J and J: Thanks for reun~ing BK and I. H was the immediate C.I.P. 
I LOVE NORTH QUAD shirts: $6 On sale in North Dining Hall Tues. Wed, Thursdin­ner. 
SOUTH QUAD: WHY? Show your pride 
with an I LOVE NORTH QUAD T·shirt On sale in North Dining Hall Tues. Wed, Thurs at dinner: $6 
THE ~EGEND OF 205 CAMPUS VIEW CONTINUES... Fricker's port·a·hat party ... we'll find you a hat Dan ... Making a new entrance. climbing up to the balcony ... Trish and Lepre. Ding ... Round two next week ... Chuck's seizure ... The Fricker ... The sprinkler... Dawn and Marty, limbo under the phone cord... Red rum Melis­sa ... Pat. we want Muhammed... PSST Mym, she's blonde... Munchy attack· HOTDOGS .. where·s the ketchup Tom· on your shirt? ... Nice pink dress Mort ... need a new chair AI? ... Tracy did you get the pig? ... Hey Paul, tt's picture time ... To Denny's in the 'slang -gotta love that parsley Mike ... Dominoe's, hey Henry got any money? ... Once again thanks for all the good times! Stay tuned for the next episode of "As 205 Turns!" Love. Tracy, Mym,Trish and Missy... and always remember HRCHJ! 
A very special thanks to those who made 
our 1st Senior Father /Daughter weekend 
so wonderful: Demse Drake 
Diane Turley 
Eileen Ryan 
Jeanne Brown 
UndyThill 
Kathleen Casey 
JaneBaecke 
Maura Keyes 

and especially to Mary Anne O'Donnell 
and Fr. Dave Murphy. From all of us wtth 
many thanks ... The Senior Class and their 
dads. 
BOYCOTT LOCKE'S 

Resume Workshop. Call 239-5200 and sign up. October 5, 3:30 to 5:00 p.m. Room 222, Career and Placement Services. Administration Building. Con­ducted by Joan Mcintosh, Career Coun· selor. 

The Observer 
NHL scouting report 
Race toward Stanley Cup IJegins 
By BARRY WUNER starts, 40-11-9 record, 2.36 average, Brian Bellows ( 3~;·30-65 as a rookie) Associated Press eight shutouts) and a wall ofgranite and Steve Payne, to defensemen defense which protected him. But Craig Hartsburg, Brad Maxwell and 
Here is a team-by-team look at the the protective blanket became a Gordie Roberts, they're loaded. 
National Hockey League, with teams sieve in the playoffs and the over­So why haven't they lived up to 
in predicted order offinish: worked Peeters fell apart. their potential? Maybe new coach 
Patrick Division The Bruins have all the elements Bill Mahoney can figure it out. 
WASHINGTON . . . after making for another super season. Rick Mid­1"0RONTO ... fro:n the depths of 
the playoffs for the first time and dleton ( 49-4 7-96) is the shiftiest the NHL to the middle of the pack is 
gaining confidence and experience, player in the game and Ray Bourque a pretty fair move for the Leafs, who 
the Capitals are ready to soar. They the best all-around defenseman. This were horrid just two years ago. They 
have a top-notch defense, steady is a team which never stops working could reach .500 behind deadeye 
goaltending and just enough offense and it will work its way to another Rick Valve (51 goals), John Ander­
to keep them ahead of the opposi­division title. son, Miro Frycer, Peter Ihnacak and 
tion. BUFFALO... Coach-General 1982-83 rookie sensation Dan 
Rod Langway was the best defen­Manager Scotty Bowman has used Daoust. The defense is led by 
seman in hockey last season and is the draft to rebuild the Sabres into veteran Borje Salming and former 
joined by another superb veteran, contenders. Youngsters Phil Hous­Canadien Gaston Gingras, who has 
Brian Engblom, and second-year ley, Mike Ramsey and Hannu Virta been reborn in Toronto, and jum­
man Scott Stevens, the hanger on anchor the mobile defense. Paul Cyr, ping jack goalie Mike Palmateer. 
defense. Sean McKenna, Dave Andreychuk 
AI Jensen showed he can play at and Adam Creighton are kids up DETKUJ 1 ... one trade can turn a this level ( 22-12-6 record, 3.44 front you'll be hearing about. team around, as t.he Caps found out goals-against) and will share the net Bob Sauve is a first-rate goalie but last season. This year, it could be the with Pat Riggin, at 24 a seasoned pro. his relief is uncertain. A trade with Red Wings who see their fortunes 
Former Virginia basketball star Ralph
Quebec brought forward Real change for the positive. The Caps scored 306 goals in the Cloutier, a one-time offensive terror Aggressive GM Jimmy Devellano Sampson begins to get ready for his first
Stretchin' 

league's best defensive division last who might wake up in Buffalo, espe­acquired goalie Ed Mio and forwards season with the Houston Rockets, as camps 
season. Right wing Mike Gartner, a cially if teamed with Gil Perreault, Ron Duguay and Eddie Johnstone open around the NBA. 
sharpshooter, could hit for 50 this the lone original Sabre still playing at from the Rangers. Mio will be No. 1 
year and Bobby Carpenter is about the Aud. in the net, backed by young Corrado 
to establish himself as one of the MONTREAL ... no longer cham­Micalef. Duguay must forget about 
NHL's premier centers. pionship threats, the Canadiens being a matinee idol and free agent 
• • . Upset
NEW YORK ISLANDERS ... when must start over under new GM Serge acquisition Brad Park must forget his the playoffs begin next spring, look Savard, a former star defenseman. bad knees. him." for the Islanders to storm to a The goaltending is OK, the offense continuedfrompage 12 "But we did it," Cannon con­record-tying fifth consecutive Stan­just fine with Mark Napier, Steve John Ogrodnkk compiled an in­with the race. tinued. "There were unexpected ley Cup. But they figure to chase the Shutt, Mats Naslund and, perhaps, a credible plus-I I rating on a team "We came into this race as a places in the race where fans would Caps during the regular season, revitalized Guy Lafleur. But the which was minus-81, but has been bunch of good athletes who have cheer us and that makes it all
on much as they did last season when defense was torn asunder in last wasted here. respect for each other and a lot of worthwhile." 
they wound up second behind the year's deal with Washington and ST. LOUIS ... ithe Blues survived, team spirit," said Cannon. "We knew The Notre Dame Invitational is Flyers. remains a weak spot. but their new ownership will that if we could win this race it this Friday at 2 p.m. on Burke There won't be as many stretches QUEBEC ... oh, how exciting this operate at some distinct disad­would be the foundation for us in Memorial Golf Course. Notre Dame 
of mediocrity and im:onsistency this team is. And how unpredictable. vantages. The team did not par­this year and in the years to come. finished fifth in a field of fifty teams year. Mike Bossy will score his usual The Stastny brothers form a dead­ticipate in the draft and it is There was a point in the race where last year. 60 goals, Billy Smith and Roland ly forward line and Michel Goulet questionable how much money real­each guy had to show how much he The Irish are hoping that one up­
Melanson will form the best (57-48-105) second only to Peter ly is available. wanted it, by beating the guys near set may lead to another. goaltending combo in the game, the Stastny's (47-77-124) is as good a deep defense -Denis Potvin, Stefan checker as he is a scorer. Goalie 
****************************************************** 
Persson, Ken Morrow, Dave Lan­Daniel Bouchard is happy in Quebec gevin, Tomas Jonsson and new­-a first in his 11-year career -but i ~~·,Men's Hair Styling at its finest tfte~eCIIS $ comer Paul Boutilier will be as he might not be smiling when the 
-tr ~~: , "..-~ 'The Knights ofthe Castle' ~ 
stingy and versatile as ever. Nordiques' shoddy defense is But, just like in 1982-83, can the exposed. 
We want you to look your best 
f/(, i
Isles stay interested for 80 games HARTFORD . . . if Emile Francis when they know it's the playoffs thinks he had problems in St. Louis, 
this fall with a distinctive custom 272.0312 * 
which make or break you? where the team almost folded, wait designers hair cut from the expert ~ 
PHILADELPHIA . . . a still-uruil he sees the roster here. 
stylists at the Knights. 277-1619 * 
immobile defense -except for Francis took over as Whalers boss -tr Across from Martin's 
Mark Howe -and questionable last spring and will try to improve -tl (St. Rd. 23) Haircut, Shampoo * 
goaltcnding will be the Flyers' un­one of the league's worst teams. -tl 
-tl Blow Dry, Condition
doing. Bobby Clarke and Darryl Sit­He'll focus that effort on excellent 
tler remain the corps of the team, center Ron Francis ( 31-59-90), -tl Regular $15.00 while Brian Propp, Bill Barber and high-scoring right wing Blaine -tl -tl Now $8.50 with coupon 
Ron Flockhart will score plenty. But Stoughton ( 45 goals in 72 games), -tl many of Philadelphia's weaknesses, 1980 U.S. Olympian Mark Johnson -tl -tl Hrs. Tue, Wedl, Sat 8:30-5:30 Applies to male patrons only
exposed by the Rangers in the '83 (31 goals) and top draftee Sylvain playoffs, have not been eliminated. Turgeon. -· -tl .Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 W / 4
t eare on y minutes .:rom cam
Mon.9-2:3o
NEW YORK RANGERS . . . their Norris Division
best goalie, Ed Mio, now is a Red 
***********************-;COUPON*********
Wing and the contenders to replace 
him haven't impressed. The defense, 
CHICAGO . . . the Black Hawks led by massive Barry Beck, speedy 
romped home for the division title Reijo Ruotsalainen, steady Tom 
last year and will be even stronger in Laidlaw, newcomer Willie Huber 
their second season under Orval and fiery Dave Maloney, will be the 
Tessier, 1983 Coach of the Year. backbone. Mark Pavelich, Mike Denis Savard ( 35-86-121 ), AI 
iEnmtJ Ql)rtnbtrfelrt1
Secord ( 54-32-86)and Rookie oftheRogers, Don Maloney and Anders Hedberg must carry the offense. Year Steve Larmer ( 43-47-90) form I -..­



PITISBURGH . . . the Penguins an awesome scoring line and the aren't as bad as they appeared last Hawks have other scorers in Darryl Say 'a111f wiedersehn' to dull Wednesday year-I8-53-9, worst in hockey­Sutter ( 31 goals), Rich Preston ( 2 5) night meals and enjoy Marriott's all-you· but they aren't playoff material. and Tom Lysiak (23-38-61 in 61 can-eat. Octoberfest Buffet. You'll Goalie Michel Dion needs more help games). Lysiak, Bill Gardner and delight to all the exciting "old country" from the defense, led by Randy cookinlf like smoked pork loin with apple 
Rick Paterson are solid checkers. Doug Wilson spearheads the

Carlyle. Mike Bullard, DougSheeden stuffinlif· hot German slaw, steamshipdefense, with Tony Esposito -at
and Paul Gardner. round, bratwurst with horseradish, and NEW JERSEY ... a stable franchise 39, the NHL's oldest player -and many, many more entrees. offthe ice but still a loser on it. Chico 
all-star Murray Bannerman manning 

For dessert,
Resch In goal and a beautiful arena the net. 
there's mouth·
The main question mark is how the Hawks will react to being routed Adams Division in the conference finals by Edmon­
ton last spring. 

BOSTON ... few people noticed MINNESOTA ... there is a serious that the Bruins used a slew of first problem here but GM Lou Nanne, and second-year players to forge the who put together this talented league's best record last season. squad, hasn't been able to spot it. 
are their drawing cards. 
watering apple strudel, German chocolate cake, gingerbread with honey, and the list of Octoberfest delights goes on and on. 
Of course, we'll be serving your favorite cocktails along with imported light and dark beer, and you'll be entertained by a strolling musician. 
The Marriott Octoberfest Buffet is 
every Wednesday from 5 p.m. until 10 p.m. in the Looking Glass Restaurant. Adults $8.95 
and children under 12, $4.95. Reservation& are appreciated. 
(219) 234-2000 
Slick center Barry Pederson had 46 The North Stars -Cup finalists in goals and I07 points In his second 1981 -have too much ability to fall 
Sav·e $1.00 oneacnadultpriceof Marriott's NHL season and fellow sophomore out of the playoffs so easily, as they Tom Fergus had 28 goals. Rookies did against Chicago the past two 
SOUTH BEND ~0rri0tt ®J.!~,P.~st
Mike Krushelnyski (23 goals), Luc years. From goalies Gilles Meloche Dufour, and Gord Kluzak were and Don Beaupre to forwards Neal _HOTEL Offer expires October 26, 1983. regulars. Broten (32-45-77), Bobby Smith One coupon per table only. 
123 N. St. Joseph Street, South Bend, Indiana 46601
Boston surged to the top behind (24-53-77), Dino Ciccarelli (37-38­the goaltending of Pete Peeters (62 75 ), Tom McCarthy ( 28-48-76), 

The Observer Tuesday, October 4, 1983-page 9 

Philly, L.A. set for tonight 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The aging 
Philadelphia Phillies and the young 
Los Angeles Dodgers now can forget 
the troubles and turmoil of their 
summer of I983 and concentrate on 
tonight's opener of the National 
League Championship Series. 
The Phillies overcame a July 
managerial change, constantly shift­
ing lineups, anemic batting, and 
public bickering to win the NL east 
title. 

The Dodgers survived a 
• prolonged slump, the loss of their first and second-string catchers to injuries, the continuing personal problems of relief pitcher Steve Howe, and a long period of adjust­ment by some oftheir young players to win the West title. 
The managers, Philadelphia's Paul 
Owens and Los Angeles' Torn 
Lasorda, feel vindicated by tho~ 
results. 

"I carne down here with some 
ideas as to what it was going to take 
for us to win," said Owens, the 
Phillies' general manager who 
assumed the managing chores when 
Pat Corrales was fired on July 18. 
"My own satisfaction in this is that 
those ideas worked." 
Lasorda, who has guided the Dodgers to four divisiqn titles in his 
VOIU'VE GOT TO PLAY 

HARDBALL 
V\fHEN IT COMES TO YOUR CAREER 
THAT'S WHY NSA OFFERS YOU THESE EXCITING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
ELECTRONIC ENGINE!ERING There are .,pportunities in a variety cof researcn and development projects ranging frc'm individual equipment'' to very complex interactive systems involving large numbers of microproce1sors, mini­computers and computer graphics. F'rofessional growth is tnhanced through inf eraction with highly exp trienced NSA profession11ls and through 'ontacts in the industrial and acade,ic worlds. Facilities fnr engineering analysis and design automation are among the best availuble. 
MATHI:MATICS 
You'll work on diverse 
agency pNblems applying a variety ~f mathematical disciplines Specific assignments might include 
solving co ,munu:ati,~s-. ~:aq, ~,._ . Octc;»ber 17, 1983. 
related pr~blemsi -• · .. ~ ::1-JI;. ~. · ..,.,, 
perfo!min1JI~n,s·r~n,l' .,;5<.....,.,··--·~...._.. iii:i S~· 
mathematical releciich or ,. -""' evaluatins1 new techniques for communications security. 

·r·>.· 
THE REWARDS AT NSA 
NSA offers a salary and benefit program that's truly competitive with private industry. There ar•t assignments for those wh·~ wish to travel and abundant good living in t~oe Baltimore-Washington areoJ for those who wish to stc1y close to home. Countless cultural, historical, recreational ancl educational opportunities are just minutes away from NSA's convenient suburban location. 
To find out more about NSA career opportunities, schedule an interview t.hro"gh your college placnment office. Fo1r additional information on the National Security Agency, / writ•! to National Security Agency, Attn: M322, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755. 
seven years .at the helm, said, "It was a speial season for us. We had a lot of bad times to overcome and we did." 
Heading illlto the best-of-five league championships opener at Dodger Stadium, Owens and the Phillies might like to forget some­thing else about the past regular season -they lost I I of I2 to the Dodgers. 
"Everytirne we faced them we were on a down cycle," said Owens. "We usually play the Dodgers tough, particularly at home. Even ifwe had split with them, we might have run away with tht: division sooner than we did." 
Philadelphia third baseman Mike Schmidt said: "I think they just got on top ofus, so that everytirne we hit a ground ball in the hole, they stuck out their glov•e and it went right in. Everytirne they made a bad throw in the dirt, it was dug right out. Everytirne there was a close call, they got ttie call." 
"They'll see a different team this time," said tht: Phillies' Pete Rose, a veteran ofmany postseason encoun­ters with Los Angeles. 
While the Dodgers might like to think the 11-1 mark against the Phillies could carry over to the championship series in the form of 
intimidation, they publicly said the 
regular-season results are meaning­
less now. 
"I think when you start the playoffs, everything is out the win­dow, so what we've done against them is out the window," said Lasorda. 
Jerry Reuss, I2-II, will face the Phillies' Steve Carlton, I 5-I6, in tonight's 7:30 p.m. EST game, the first of two successive contests at Dodger Stadium. 
"You have to deal with today," said Reuss, referring to the Dodgers' dominance of the Phillies this year. "You can't look back at the past or to the future. I'm just real pleased to get a chance to pitch in the opener." 
Sox and Orioles start Wednesday 
BALTIMORE (AP)-The Chicago White Sox and Baltimore Orioles, similar teams with similar records, will begin the best-of-5 American League Championship Series tomor­row. 
Power, pitching and defense 
carried the teams to the best regular­
season records in baseball, with 
Chicago's 99-63 mark one game bet­
ter than the Orioles' 98-64. 
Chicago, led by Rudy Law and Julio Cruz, have a decided edge in speed, yet in the season series, the Orioles stole nine bases to eight for the White Sox. 
The ·playoff series will feature three of the top sluggers in the American League. Chicago rookie Ron Kittle fmished third in horne runs with 35, while Baltirnore:s Eddie Murray had 33 and Greg Luzinski ofthe White Sox had 32. 
In addition, Cal Ripken Jr. of the Orioles slammed 27 homers and Chicago's Carlton Fisk hit 26. 
LaMarr Hoyt, the top winner in the majors with a 24-10 record, was named to oppose Baltimore's Scott McGregor, 18-7, in the opener. 
Hoyt had a 2-1 record in the 
season series won by the Orioles, 7­
5, while McGregor won his only 
decision against Chicago. 
After a Thursday n,ight game in 
Baltimore, with Floyd Bannister, 16­
10, opposing rookie Mike Boddick­
er, 16-8, the series shifts to Chicago 
for the remaining games. There will 
be no off-day. 
The remaining pitching match­ups include Chicago's Richard Dot­son 22-7, against Baltimore's Mike Flanagan, 12-4; Chicago's Britt Burns, 10-11, against either Storm Davis, 13-7, or Jim Palmer, 5-4, of Baltimore, and Hoyt against McGregor in a rematch in Game 5, if necessary. 
The playoffs mark the first postseason action for the White Sox since they lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1959 World Series. The Orioles will be participating in a record seventh AL playoff since the system was inaugurated in 1969. 
Baltimore Manager joe Altobelli 
said he would decide by today 
whether Davis or Palmer, a three­
time Cy Young Award winner with a 
7-3 postseason record, would start 
the fourth game. 
Davis had been penciled in for the assignment. But he has been bot­hered by neck and shoulder aii­ments, and Palmer pitched well in his last start Friday. 
Although the Orioles have much more. experience in postseason play, Altobelli discounted that as a factor. 
"Experience goes out the window in a short series," he said. He also noted that the World Series has in­cluded such unlikely hitting heroes as Brian Doyle, Billy Martin, and Bobby Richardson. 
COMPUTER SCIENCE 
At NSA you'll discover one of the largest computer installations in the world with almost every major vendor of computer equipment represented. NSA careers provide mixtures of such disciplines as systems analysis and design, scientific applications programming, data base management systems, operating 
LINGUISTS 

NSA offers a wide range of challenging assignments for Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian language majors involving translation, transcription and analysis/ reporting. Newly-hired linguists can count on receiving advanced training in their primary language(s) and can pl-.•n on many years of continued professional growth. 

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755 

An Equal Opportunity Employer, U.S. Citizenship Required. 
Q • • 
n campUS reCrUiting 


r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, October 4, 1983 -page 10 
Hillsdale defends title 

Belles win one, lose two in tourney 
By CHIP AYOTIE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's College finished 1-2 
in its own volleyball invitational 
held last Saturday at the Angela Ath­
letic Faciility. Meanwhile, Hillsdale 
Collegt· successfully defended its 
crown by defeating Lake Michigan 
College, IS-13, 16-14, to win the eight-team tournament for the second consecutive year. 
The Belles beat Manchester Col­lege, I S-14, I S-1 I, before losing to Lake Michigan, I S-12, Il-lS, 7-1 S, and Hillsdale, 14-16, 12-1 S. Hil­lsdale, incidentally, was ranked ftfth in the NAlA last year and took an 8-5 record into Saturday's action. 
Saint Mary's trailed early and often throughout the tournament, before making a number ofcomebacks. 
"I feel that this is the comeback team ofthe year," said first-year head coach Brian Goralski. 
Sophomore Jean Weigand dis­played the Belles' comeback spirit in the first game against Lake Michigan. She served eight straight points to erase a 12-7 deficit and lead the Belles to one oftheir three victories. 
Saint Mary's did experience some difficulty, however. 
"We had mental lapses and problems with passing," said Goralski. "We also had a lack ofcom­munication at the net." 
Junior Ann Boulton was the steadiest of the Belles in the tourna-

First annual tournament 

Saint Mary's finishes third 
By SHANNON MAUGHAN 
Sports Writer 
Leeper Park in SOuth Bend was the 
site of the first annual Saint Mary's 
Invitational Tennis Tournament last 
weekend. Saint Mary's finished third 
in a strong field of Division I teams, 
including those from DePaul, 
Toledo, and Bowling Green. 
Toledo won the tournament title 
and handed Saint Mary's its first loss 
of the weekend, winning by a 6-3 
score. 
Deb Laverie and Caroline Zern 
won their singles matches, 6-1, 7-6 
and 6-2, 6-3, respectively, while the 
doubles team of Allison Pellar and 
Mary Ann Heckman was victorious 
by scores of6-3, 6-2 . 
. Saint Mary's coach John Killeen 
had mixed fedings about the Belles' 
loss to Toledo. 
"I don't fed we played up to our 
potential against Toledo," said Kil­
leen, "but playing the tougher Divi­
sion I teams is good practice 
experience for us. We're finding out 
where we need to improve." 
The Belles rebounded to win their 
match against DePaul, 7-2. 
Juniors Laverie and Heckman out­
classed their singles opponents, 6-4, 
7-6 and (>. I, 6-I, while sophomores 
Kristen Beck and Jody Radler were 
victorious, 6-.2, 6-4 and 6-2, 6-0, 
respectively. Freshman Caroline 
Zern demolished her opponent, 6-0, 
6-1. 
In the doubles matches, the teams 
of Laveric:-Beck, Pellar-Heckman, 
and Zern-Karie Casey, all scored im-
Jets defense slams door on Bills 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. (AP) ­Richard Todd threw two touch­down passes, Bruce Harper ran for I 18 yards and New York's much­maligned rushing defense slammed the door on error-prone Joe Cribbs last night as the Jets routed the Buf­falo Bills 34-10. 
Harper, the all-purpose back being used as one of the replace­ments for injured halfback Freeman McNeil, had the first I00-yard game of his seven-year National Football League career on only nine carries. He also caught Todd's I I -yard touchdown pass that opened the scoring in the second period. 
Todd also passed 22 yards to 
rookie running back Johnny Hector 
for a score in the opening minute of 
the fourth 4uarter. In the third period, Mark Gastineau, the Jets' flamboyant defensive end, scored the first touchdown of his five-year career when he recovered a Cribbs fumhle in the Buffalo end zone.
-.... . . ... ... .. ... , . 
ment. 

"Ann is an excellent overall 
player," said Goralski. 
In addition to Boulton's strong 
play, the Belles showed improve­
ment in their serving. 
The serving of the Saint Mary's 
team, according to Goralski, was 85­
percent better in this tournament 
than it was in their loss to Purdue­
Calumet last Thursday. 
The Belles were without the services of veteran players Miki Maternowski and Molly Baker in the tournament. Both, however, are ex­pected back for today's match against Bethel at 6 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Saint Mary's will take a 4-6 record into tonight's contest. 
pressive wins. The Belles record now stands at 
The contest against Bowling 6-2 with this week bringing yet an­Green was especially tough. The Fal­other heavy schedule of matches. cons came out ahead 9-0, although Upcoming home matches include St. many of the matches were very Francis College tomorrow and dose. IUPU-Ft. Wayne on Thursday. 
ci,'\1­
.;..,~ o-t~ ~'!"-~~~ ~~c ~\\. ~· 
'R\e -~\.ete ~\.~ c;~~\'i 8 'R ~e. 
o~~o.o-vi;j efY' 
o.e\~ \.~o~ 



Tennis pairings 
All matches must be playea and reported to the NVA office by Tueday, October 11. 
MEN'S OPEN TENNIS NO. 1 Coleman (4645) v. Mischke (4521) 
K. O'Brien ( 1'692) v. B. McGowan ( 1 069) Dahl (8944) v. J. Bosco 
MEN'S OPEN TENNIS NO. 2 Huebl (3248) v. Keller (6105) Harman (1 082) v. Soergal (1575) Kmpe (8917) v. Goulet (277-7563) Fay (1 069) v. Leyes (1 082) 
P. Serrano-bye 

MIXED DOUBLES-THIRD ROUND 
Martin-Morrow (6840) v. Moore-O'Bryan (7870) Callis-O'Grady ( 1288) v. Clifford-Locke (8171) Cooke-Schnell (3316) v. Gro1ean-Mohnsky (1248) Paraiso-Dougherty (1271) v. Waii-Hagemen ( 1195) Sobzak-Delapena (1639) v. Szatkowski-Demello 18852) 

l.:leveland-Galhus (4514) v. O'Bnen-Aimeida (1692) Bond-Demello (1027) v. Runger-Schm1d (1432) 
WOMEN'S TENNIS SINGLES-SECOND ROUND 
Alme1da (6722) v. V. Demello (1326) 
Gordon (6928) v. L. Demello (1348) 
lmmonen (3091) v. Kohlhaas (6834) Co~n (6803) v. Rozic (6727) McG1nnis-bye 

MEN'S NOVICE SINGLES-SECOND ROUND 
Lukas1ak (8272) v. Kennaugh (4627) 
Taneff (1129) v. Polasek (8102) 
Healy (4625) v. Gardiner (8646) 
Horvath (1392) v. Clifford (8171) 
Kelly (1520) v. Real (3378) 
Bauman (3546) v. Lusser (8~89) 
P1co-bye 
GRAD/FAC SINGLES 

K. Walberg (277-7152) v. Hoffman (239-7666) Lyons (239·6284) v. D. Walberg (272-7152) Schubert (2754) v. Steve Q. (232-9140) 
Buy 

Observer 
Classifieds 
The Huddle Student Center 1
~--------------------~ 
I I
HAS YOUR FREE SAMPLE PACK OF GENERAL FOODS® INTERNATIONAL COFFEES 
I 

WAITING FOR YOU. PRESENT THIS COUPON AND HAVE A TASTE ON us. Sample Packs are available at your college bookstore while supplies last. If sample pack is not available 
I 

at your college bookstore, send the coupon with completed form below to General Foods"" !:1 1 I ~:~:ational Coffees Sample Pack Offer, P.O. Box :~~:ankakee, Illinois 60902. gp li 
I Addres Class
I 



I FREE 


Limit-onerequestpercustomer. This offer expires December 16, 1983. 
..---------·----...---------~-­
11  
GENERAL F0008  I~  
FREE  ~~  
Sample Pack  l:J  

.....ll!llllllll!!l!lllll!!lllll!l!ll~~-~·~-.1!1111!111!111'1-• 
r----------------------------­


']I['~4tllC3L~-----------------------------------·----T·u-es_d_a_r_,o
__c_to.h.e_r_4_,_1_9_8_3___p_a_ge__l_l 
Bloom <:ounty
,_..;;.______., 


Fate 
HEY, Y(JU 'f?£ 1'1£./oiT/DNED IN 
OK IS If M/K{ SUWVAIJ'S 
rHE SlHOLIISrJC-' lr SAYS, INSIC.HrFU/.. SPORrr 
'WI/Ar'J TH£ MDrT St4Niflelti~( 
COLIJ.I'tll/! 
PotmON ~F THE OBJ&Rv£((7 
If IT Hit ff?ON'( f114f flrT£NrtoN 41/!l/JIINC, IIEWS 
SrtJRP \ 




Mellish 
WI!H lij( fnu~G( "N My 




The Daily Crossword 


5TIU-GOr Nf.JP€! 
At.lJN& 14#lY cliJST f!OOIIT 10 GO,WHl GOT'tM flU-.1 
0~ rH£ PoPULAR C!ltroo/J 
"FMf"( 



ACROSS 31 Desert 1 Cotton plant pods 34 Platter 
6 Not up 35 Hallux 10 Enfold is one 14 Hebrew 36 Escort of 
archangel a sort 15 Sand ridge 37 Wander 16 Scintilla aimlessly 17 Lariat 38 Large US 18 Rubens, e.g. airport 20 Surfer? 40 Key letter 22 Nabokov 41 Mild oath 
character 43 Certain 23 Genetic people letters 44 Glenn, e.g. 24 Advertising 46 Cassini lights of fashion 27 Wife of 47 Swift Osiris 48 WWII grp. 29 Unyielding 49 Grassland 
Monday's Solution 

Berke Breathed 

Campus · · 
•9 
am. · 3:30p.m. -Book Sale, on damaged and dusty books, Memorial Library Concourse 

•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Efficient Programming, 115 Computing Center 

•4:30 
p.m. -Annual Address, of Father Hes­burgh to the faculty, Engineering Auditorium 

•6 
p.m. -Volleyball, SMC vs. Bethel College, An· gela Athletic Facility 

•6:30 
p.m. -Sr. Classs Meeting, Senior Advisory Council, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -FUm, "Fame," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting of the Faculty Senate, IOO-I04CCE 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ladies ofNotre Dame, Newcomer Tea and Membership, Memorial Library Penthouse . 

•7:30 
p.m. -Informational Meeting, Senior Class Trip to Bahamas, Senior Bar 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Body, Brain, and Culture," Dr. Victor Turner, Library Auditorium 

•10 
p.m. -Mass for Cathy Pax, Walsh Hall Chapel 



TV Tonight. . 
6:30p.m. 16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune 34 Straight Talk 
7:00p.m. 16 Baseball National West 22 The Mississippi 28 just our Luck 34 NOVA 
7:30p.m. 28 Happy Days 
8:00p.m. 22 Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 34 Lifeline 
8:30p.m. 28 OhMadeline 9p.m. 28 Hart to Hart 
34 NumeroUno 9:30p.m. 34 Matters of Life and Death 10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 

10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 TrapperJohn/McCloud 28 Thicke ofthe Night 
Far Side 

"I presume you're Dr. Livingstone ... I mean ... Presumably, you're Dr. Livingstone ... No, wait ... Dang! I've screwed it up!" 

Photius 
trS rH£ 'FII~ Sip[_"// GUZ. I fit0().4H7'" EVfiNON£ KNEW nwtT. 


52 Cyclists? 56 MaeW.est 59...Bowery 
habitues 60 Algerian port city 61 Autumn 
lace 62 Comeup 63 Conjurer's 
rod 64 Wartime time 65 American poet 
DOWN 1 Rangoon's land 
2 Mountain nymph 3 Climbing 
plant 4 Motherof 
Apollo 5 Czech, e.g. 6 Graces 7 "Taras-" 8 Within: 
pref. 

9 Ultimatums 10 Sapience 11 Nonsense! 12 Supped 13 Equality 19 P.O. des­
ignation 21 Goddess of discord 
25 Brazilian port city ..26 Raddock 
sound 27 Resident: 
suff. 
28 Guarantees 29 Help 30 Riverin 
England 31 Chalices 32 Son of 
Jacob 33 Tableware 34 Parent 37 Needlefish 39 Embrace 42 Paulette of 
"Modern Times" 43 Baseball's 
Matty 45 Attach 46 Hawk 48 Group of 
Muslim 
scholars 49 Red leader 50 Irregularly notched 51 Something 
of value 53 Greedy 54 Mop 55 Take on 56 Depressed 57 Pension 
letters 58 Rooter 


,-----..-----------------T--·-------------------, 
t Tuesday, Oct. 4 tllllwy'vt· re-ally gol whal il lai{('S, t 7·10 p.m. t irs goiug lolakc cvnyllliug Tues, Oct. 4 and f
t, Stepan Center t llu·y'vt · 1~( •1. Wed., Oct 5 , ' (indoors! outdoors permitting) ~ ' ~ Skates and Mu~c will be provided t 
~ I 
Sponsored by Student Union 
Engineering Auditoriurn 
' 7,9:15,11:30-$1 ' t RoUerSkatingPa~ ' ' 
.. . . 6 ' tt
····~~·~..,.:-~ ....~~ ...... ~ ... .-.~~._..~~~~._..~~~._. ......~.~~.._.. ~~~~~~._..~ .... ~~~~~~~. 


Tuesday, October 4, 1983 -page 12 
National Catholic Meet 
Irish upset favored Marquette 
By DAVID ROOP Notre Dame beat Marquette by a had dropped to sixth place and was Sports Writer slim margin of five points, 42-47. visibly exhausted. He had given an The two teams were the class of the extremely gutsy performance. 
Sometimes it is not only the top twenty team field. But Notre Dame's Tim Cannon, meanwhile, finished four men who play the largest role in depth and determination triumphed fourth in 24:21, followed by Dillon, a cross country race. Sometimes it is over an extremely talented Mar­sixth; Caron, eighth; andjuba, tenth. the final three who make the dif­quette club. The real difference in the race, ference. The Notre Dame runners got off nevertheless, was the huge gap that 
This is precisely what happened to an excellent start. By the one· seperated Mike Collins, Notre last Friday when Notre Dame won mile-mark, Notre Dame's top seven Dame's fifth man, from Marquette's the National Catholic meet, ousting men were in the front of the pack, fifth man. The freshman Collins ran pre-race favorite Marquette who directly behind Marquette's an excellent race, passing the three· had won the meet the last three frontrunners. mile-mark in 14:53 and finishing in 
years. They crossed the mile-mark in 25:08 -placing fourteenth. 
Actually, Marquette's first four 4:40. At this point, Friday's heat had Jim Tyler finished two seconds men, led by meet winner Keith Han­not begun to take its toll. behind Collins, winning an exciting sen, were outstanding · finishing At the three-mile-mark, Notre sprint to the finish over a couple of first, second, fifth, and eleventh. Dame's runners were in fantastic opponents, while Bill Courtney However, the Notre Dame team was position. Co-captain Andy Dillon finished 22nd. Although Tyler and well aware of Marquette's weak fifth looked in peak form, a half-step be­Courtney did not officially score man. hind eventual meet winner Hansen, points for the Irish, they added two 
Notre Dame coach joe Plane told who crossed the three-mile-mark in points to the Marquette total, by his team, "If they take first and 14:31. Tim Cannon was three running ahead of Ma.rquette's fifth second, so be it. But we have got to seconds back, while Ralph Caron man, who finished 28th. get our seven in before their fifth and Edjuba were within strikingdis­After the race, a jubilant crowd man finishes." tance, passing the marker in 14:40. greeted the victorious Irish. 
Before the race, Plane estimated At four miles, however, Dillon, Notre Dame's top runner Tim his chances of an upset to be about who had appeared to be running the Cannon explained his satisfaction "ftfty-flfty." In the end, his estimate race ofhis life, could no longer main· 
see UPSET, page 8

could not have been more accurate. tain his fast pace. By the finish line he 
At Wildcat Tournament 
Tennis team faces stiff competition 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL tucky's Susan Keleher, 6-1, 6-0, but coach, Sharon Petro, Northwestern, Sports Writer lost to Northwestern's Diane Don­ranked 13th in the nation last year, nelly, 6-1, 6-2. appeared to be ·'very strong" and the 
This weeke111d, the Notre Dame In doubles play, the Irish team of forerunner in the Big Ten Con­women's varsity tennis team Panther and Laura Lee defeated ference this year. An optimistic ventured to Evanston, Illinois, Iowa's team ofReuter and Guerin, 6-Petro commented, "We did a good where they faced stiff competition 3, 6-4, but lost to the team of Don­job (overall)." in the Wildcat Tournament. Facing nelly and Lucido from 
The Irish, who overwhelmed 
Northwestern, Iowa, and Kentucky Northwestern, 6-0, 6-1. 
DePaul last Thursday, 9-0, currently(all of whom are considered among A team ofCulligan and Lisa LaFrat­possess a record of8-0 in dual com­the best), the Irish were able to hold ta lost to Kentucky's team ofKeleher petition.
their own and gain much needed and Wood in a tough battle, 4-6, G-4, Looking ahead to the champion­
Division I experience. 6-4. 
ship tournament of the North Star 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON by trimming LSU 31-17 -the set­The tournament alotted each While the competition in this 
Conf£rence set for October 14-1 5, 
Assoctatea Press back dropped the Tigers out of the team eight singles players and four tournament was rather overwhelm­
Petro said, "We will probably be rankings -and Arizona dropped 
doubles teams. ing, the Irish did succeed in match­
considered the favorites (against the For the second week in a row, the from third to 1Oth with 680 points Notre Dame's top player, Susie ing up fairly well against Division I 
likes ofLoyola, Butler, and Dayton)." Nebraska Cornhuskers are a unani­after blowinga 26-3lead and settling 
Panther, soundly defeated Ken­powerhouses. If Notre Dame is to mous choice as the nation's No. 1 for a 33-33 tie with California tucky's Linde Shirline, 6-0, 6-I, and become a Division I team, then the Upcoming on the Notre Dame college football team. 
Northwestern's Kristin Laux, 6-2, 6-Irish must continue to face such schedule is the Irish Invitational on The Second Ten consists ofGeor­
0, before losing to the tournament's competition and must continue to October 8-9, with the opposition gia, Miami of Florida, Southern Met­
Following a 63-7 thrashing of top seed, Maeve Quinlan of improve. being Western Michigan (last year'shodist, Michigan, Iowa, Maryland 
Northwestern, 6-0, 6-2, in the quar­The future is bright, however, be­winner), Detroit, Dayton, Central and W ashington tied for 16th,
Syracuse that gave them a 5-0 
record, during which they have out­terfinals. cause the Irish are still undefeated in Michigan, Ferris State, Toledo, and followed by Arizona State and two
scored the opposition 289-56, the Cathy Schnell won an opening season play and did better over last Saint Mary's. newcomers to the Top Twenty this 
round match against Kim Martin of weekend than they did last year Finishing up the season, the Irish year, Illinois and Brigham Young.
Cornhuskers again received all 60 
first-place votes and a perfect score Iowa, 6-4, 6-4, before losing tojaime when they were trounced by will face the University of Illinois of 1,200 points from a nationwide 
Plummer ofKentucky, 6-4, 6-4. Northwestern. (Chicago Circle) at home next Tues­Last week, it was Georgia, Florida,
panel of sports writers and Mary Colligan downed Ken-According to Notre Dame's day.
SMU, Michigan, Miami, LSU, Florida sportscasters in yesterday's As­State, Washington, Maryland and S<>ciated Pres.<; poll. Nebraska has Arizona State.

been No. 1 each week of 1983, start· ing with the preseason poll. 
Illinois moved into the Top 42-6 winner over Rice,

Texas, a Twenty by routing Iowa 33-0 and was runner-up for the third week in 
dropping the Hawkeyes from fourth a row. The Longhorns, just as they 
to 15th, while Brigham Young made did last week, received '58 second­
the ratings with a 37-3triumph over place votes and two thirds for 1,138 
UCLA. points. However, Arizona and Iowa slipped from the 3-4 positions, while . Alabama and North Carolina moved 
APTopT-, The Top Twenty college football reams in The As· up. isoclated PreSJJ poll, wi!h first-place votes in paren­Alabama jumped from sixth to 
heses, lhls season's records and !alai points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Noire Dame opponent

third with 982 points following a 44­
IWelt/JIIcized. 

13 victory over Memphis State and North Carolina moved up from fifth to fourth with 981 points by defeat­
1. Nebraska (60) 5 1200 2. Texas 3 1138 3. Alabama 4 982

ing Georgia Tech 38-21. West Vir­
ginia, 5-0 for the first time in 21 
4. North Carolina 5 981 5. West Virginia 5 943 6. Ohio Stale 3 n9

years, climbed from seventh to fifth 
with 943 points by defeating Pitt 24­
7. Auburn 3 754 8. Oklahoma 3 754 9. Florida 4 687 

21. 
Ohio State, No. Blast week, rose to 
10. Arizona 4 680 

sixth with 779 points by crushing 
11. Georgia 3 6n 12. Mlami,F/a. 4 506

Minnesota 69-18. Auburn shot from 
13. So. Methodist 4 485

1Oth to seventh with 761 points af­
14. Michigan 3 457 15. Iowa 3 395 16. Maryland 3 243 

ter shading Florida State 27-24 and 
knocking the Seminoles out of the 
lie Washington 3 243 18. Arizona Stale 3 231 19. Illinois 3 101 

Top Twenty. 
Oklahoma inched up from ninth 

20 Brigham Young 3 64 to eighth with 754 points by beating 
Kansas State 29-10, Florida vaulted 
Associated Press poll. For more details, see the from 12th to ninth with 687 points story at left. 







