~------------,-------------------------------------~--------------------------~~~----------~------------------------~-------------------------~·~--..~~..~---...~....~...--·~ 
'I
• • • Election results-page 5 
' 



_\IOL. XVII, NO. 108 the inlkpendcnt ~tudent new~paper ~erving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 1983 
Garners 77 percent 
Students pass bilateral freeze 
By DAN MCCULLOUGH people were not really aware of the Lynch, president of the College Campus Campaign Reporter issue." Republicans. During the vote for a The passage of the referendum on unilateral freeze their insistence for 
The referendum on yesterday's a bilateral freeze came after the vote bilateral negotiations prompted us ballot which recommended the on a referendum for a unilateral to introduce the referendum." He adoption of a bilateral freeze on freeze failed to pass during the stu· also expressed his gratitude to the nuclear weapons was passed dent senate elections. Students Notre Dame student body for their overwhelmingly hy the student defeated the initial proposal by anal­participation. body. . most two-to-one margin. According to the election results 
The final tally showed those favor­CILA representative Kevin Walsh compiled by Ombudsman the ing the referendum winning by a said, "The person whom we would bilateral referendum passed in every margin of 2770, or 76.9 percent, to like to thank the most for the success hall by approximately a two-to-one 
832, or 23.1 percent. 53 percent of of the overwhelming passing of the margin. Lyons Hall has yet to vote on the student body voted in the elec­referendum would have to be Mark the issue. tion. 

*ca'6a'::paign'83 Campus-wide lottery 
Referendum coordinator Micheal 
would be fal·rest·. HPC 
O'Brien commented, ''I'm really proqd. I think it's a positive sign that will mean more than just an in­By MIKE KRISKO harm the percentage of upperclas­itiative expressing an opinion." News Staff smen in the smaller dorms, but after 
He also said he hopes the passing the discussion ended, HPC Presi­of this referendum by such a con­Since students still are not turning dent Mike McAuliffe concluded that servative university as Notre Dame in their housing contracts, the pos­the general consensus was in favor will have some influence on sibility ofa housing lottery again was ofa campus-wide lottery. Congress when a bill similar to the the main topic at last night's Hall After committee discussion and referendum is reintroduced into the Presidents Council meeting. After council approval, Howard Hall House of Representatives. A pre­some discussion, the HPC agreed President Tim Connolly sum­vious bill, which was identical to the that a campus-wide lottery would be marized the suggestions that will be new bill, missed being passed by on­the fairest method if such an event forwarded to Heppen. "Even though ly two votes, according to O'Brien. should prove necessary. 200 people are supposed to be lot­
The referendum was sponsored The exact lottery procedure is teried off-campus, it would be best if by the Coalition for a Bilateral still in the planning stage. Keenan only 100 are selected because they Freeze. This group consisted of Hall President Brian Callaghan said will probably take a number of members of The Young Democrats, that Director of Student Housing friends with them," he said. Pax Christi, Circle K, and the Com­Father Michael Heppen was willing Connolly added that it would be munity for the International Lay to accept a process proposed by the best to lottery off seniors since they Apostate ( CILA). majority of the students. could most easily adapt to the 
Mark Lynch, president of the Col­The council debated several ideas change. lege Republicans, said that they about a lottery procedure. Discus­were "not surprised" at the results of sions mentioned having a lottery see HPC, page 4 the vote. He criticized the presenta­selecting a certain percentage ofstu­tion of the issues by the referendum dents from dorms where not many committee, saying that he was "very people were moving off-campus, 
'Czar·of sports'? 
disappointed in the campaign. Next such as Carroll, Flanner, and Grace to no information was presented to Halls. the student body and that any value Badin Hall President Peggy 


Joyce discusses athletic concern 
(of the passing of the referendum) Prevoznik pointed out that a may be negated by the fact that campus-wide lottery could severely 


By MICHELE DIETZ have, or have as much knowledge about athletics as I Senior StaffReporter do.That's because I've been at it so long." Joyce says'his close working relationship with -Hes­
l
Editor's Note: This is the second part ofa two-part burgh is one of the secrets of Notre Dame's success in
No tickets gain majority, 

series profiling Father Edmund P. joyce, Executive 
keeping Notre Dame's athletics honest in the midst of Vice President ofNotre Dame. ­
nationwide corruption. He explained that at other


runoffs to be held tomorrow 

schools the responsibility of being in charge of sports The Hesburgh Memorial Library or theJoyce Athletic 
usually falls on the shoulders of athletic directors who 

\I
Center? One day it could be so. 
see little oftheir presidents. Thus, not having to answer

BY KEVIN BINGER Tom Burke finished third with In 1977. when University President Father Theodore directly for cheating, they "get away with it." This is not '~. 
Campus Campaign Reporter 198 votes, or 18.1 percent. 

M. Hesburgh andJoyce were finishing their 25th year as 
the case at Notre Dame, according toJoyce.
Lee Broussard came in first place 

a team, the Board of Trustees decreed that, upon the 
"I think people respect Notre Dame, and our peersRunoffs will he held tomorrow for amongst the nine sophomore class 

duo's retiremenr, the Memorial Library would be 
recognize we run a honest program," Joyce said. "Weall three class offices, as no ticket tickets with 255 votes, or 20.9 per­

renamed after Hesburgh, ;md the Athletic and Convoca­
are proofthat you can have a good sports program with­gained the necessary majority of the cent. Vito Gagliardi received 229 tion Center out cheating."

vote in yesterday's class elections. votes, garnering 18.8 percent of the The junior class race was so close vote. WEDNESDAYaB "There is a lot of jealousy against Notre Dame," he
(ACC) would be renamed after continued, "so 1 try to keep our voice muted. Butthat a recount was required. Mike Michael Snyder, who was in Joyce. 
people are getting more upset and trying to make high­Schmitt's ticket won with .370 votes, charge of Zahm\s balloting, con­Why the ACC er standards. I hope they'll say 'if Notre Dame can do it,or 34.09 .percent; Vince Hockett's firmed that one sophomore was 

•--FOCUS
for Joyce? His in­we can.'"
came in second with 361 votes, or turned away at Zahm five minutes volvement in Joyce's involvement in athletics began early in his33.29 percent; and John Decker's before balloting closed at 6:30. 

Notre Dame athletics had something to do with the 
life, having played high sch· !'Jl sports, and intramuralmissed a runoffby only four votes, or Joe Harmon and Tom Treat, both Board's decision. 
tennis at Notre Dame when there were only "two lousy.32.80 percent. sophomores in Flanner Hall con­Known to some as the "Czar of sports" at Notre cement courts." ­Decker, presidential candidate on tlrmed that they were !Urned away 

Dame, (a name he does not like), Joyce has the final say 
"I've always been interested in sports," Joyce said. "1the ticket labelled "The Mob," has from Flanner's polling place because 
in all athletic matters at Notre Dame. 
know a lot about athletics and I enjoy it. The people Iclaimed that Flanner and Zahm halls there were no more ballots. "I don't 

Joyce estimates that he spends 1 5 to 20 percent ofhis 
deal with at Notre Dame are wonderful, and we've had aran out of ballots for the class of '85 know why they ran out ofballots but 

time dealing with Notre Dame sports as chairman ofthe 
great tradition."
and that some people got turned I think it's inexcusable," said Deck­

Faculty Board in Control of Athletic!>, a position that is 
Yet varsity hockey was forced out of the Notre Dameaway without a chance to vote. er. 

part ofhis job as Exective Vice President. 
tradition -a situation that was "unavoidable" accord­Decker feels that the election was Pat Borchers, on the Ombudsmen 

Joyce also is involved in athletics on a national level 
ing toJoyce.
unfair and that his ticket should be committee to supervise the elec­

as a member ofthe College Football Association's Board 
"Hockey was a very unique situation," he said. "Theincluded in the runoff. tions, stated that Decker will not ap­

of Directors, a 1977 recipient of the National Football 
deficits were astronomical, and it would defeat the restTricia Romano was the top vote­pear on the runoff ballot unless 

Foundation and Hall ofFame's"Distinguished American 
ofthe sports program," he explained. "And another factgetter in the senior class race with tangible evidence is found that four 

Award" and a man well-known in National Collegiate 
was that the students just weren't interested. It didn't488 votes, or 44.7 percent. William or more people didn't vote. 
Athletic Association (NCAA) circles. 
seem reasonable to put out that kind ofmoney for just aDawahart:: came in second place "We're really pleased with the 

"I have been more involved (in athletics) than any 
few people.
with 406 votes, or 37.29 percent. results," said Romano of her victory. 

other administrator in the country," Joyce said. "At no 
''I'm sure I'd be disappointed if! were a player," JoyceThese two will appear on the senior "But we know we have a lot ofwork 

other school has anyone been as involved as long as I
class runoffballot tomorrow. see CLASS, page 3 see Joyce, page 4 
r 
r Wednesday, March 2, 1983-page 2



NewsBrieh 

Rv The Observer and The Associated Press 
SBP-elect Brian Callaghan has announced that applications for cabinet positions are now available from hall presi­dents and in the Student Government office. Positions include housing, security, freshmen and transfer orientations, alumni rela­tions, and social concerns. Said Callaghan, "What we're looking for is a dedicated and self-motivated group of people who have the time and interest to get involved." The deadline for submittingan applica­tion is Monday at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
The downward trend in gas prices will continue, says an official ofan Indianapolis oil company. Jerry Davis of Rock Island Refinery says he would not be surprised if leaded, regular gasoline is selling at 75 or 85 cents a gallon by this summer. There's a big if to the antiticipation. The "if' is how much oil­producing countries -especially those in the Middle East -decide to export and what they charge for it. If the current rate of produc­tion holds, and the per-barrel ( 42 gallons) price dips to $27, a con­sumer price of 75 to 85 cents for leaded regular gasoline is possible, Davis said. The current world price is between $30 and $34. A year ago, Davis said, Rock Island was paying abqut $42 a barrel. -AP 
Socialist Mayor Bernard Sanders of Bur­lington, Vt., won re-election yesterday in a three-way race after an all-out campaign to prove his 1981 victory was not a fluke. "The victory was more than we thought," Sanders said last night. "It's one thing to win an election. It's another thing to run for re-election based on your record." City officials placed the turnout at about 13,000, which would be a record for a mayoral election. When San­ders was elected two years ago, there were 9,400 votes cast. Sanders said the vote totals "indicate a lot ofpopular support for what we're trying to do." The outcome hinged on whether voters agreed with Sanders-who said he has brought new life to Vermont's largest city -or sided with his opponents, who have portrayed the mayor as a 
wild man who could ruin Burlington if given two more years in 
office. -AP 

The Italian govenunentis investigating the Turk who shot John Paul II, his accused Bulgarian accomplice and an Italian labor leader for allegedly plotting to assassinate Polish Solidarity leader Lech Walesa, national news reports said TheAGI agency, quoting unidentified officials, said Monday the would-be as· sassins planned to put a powerful bomb under a car in which Walesa was to ride during his visit to Rome in January of 1981. It was not immediately clear why the plot was not performed. -AP 
A man who admitted that he threatened to con­taminate Tylenol unless he was paid $100,000 has been sentenced to two years in prison. Vernon A. Williams Jr., 34, who said he never intended to carry out the threat, was sentenced Monday by U.S. Dis­trict Judge Dickinson Debevoise in Newark, N.J. When Williams pleaded guilty Jan. 19 to a reduced charge of mail fraud, he told the judge he made the threat because he "was under a lot ofpressure and needed some money." Williams was charged with mailing a letter to Johnson &Johnson, parent company ofMcNeil Consumer Products, the makers of Tylenol. The unemployed moving company worker told the judge he needed the cash to help support his 2-year-old daughter, who lives with him, and his four other children who live with his wife. -AP 
Raque} W e}chhas had a miscarriage, British newspapers said today. The Daily Mirror quoted the movie star's press agent, Belinda Breeze, as saying Welch had the miscarriage while vacation­ing with her third husband, French ftlm producer Andre Weinfeld, on Mustique. The Caribbean island is a favored hideaway ofBritain's royal family, most recently by Prince Andrew and his girlfriend, actress Koo Stark. Welch was flown to Barbados for emergency treat­ment at a hospital, the Sun reported. She has two grown children from a previous marriage. Welch announced four months ago that she was pregnant and pulled out of the Broadway musical "Woman ofthe Year" to rest. -AP 
The House Ways and Means committee, making only minor changes, put its stamp of approval on a Sl65 billion Social Security rescue package yesterday. The committee, working into the evening, tentatively agreed to virtually all the recommendations of the National Commission on Social Security Reform, including higher payroll taxes, a benefit curb, a levy on some retirees' benefits and mandatory coverage for new federal employees and top government officials. Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., the chairman, averted a fight over whether to raise the man­datory retirement age by assuring lawmakers there would be votes on that on the House floor next week. Rostenkowsi offered his per­sonal guarantee that the House Rules Committee would allow separate votes on whether to close Social Security's remaining deficit exclusively by raising the age or solely through tax increases. If that agreement should fall through, Rostenkowski promised to open the bill again to allow the committee to vote. -AP 
Mostly sunny and warm today. High in low 60s. Clear tonight with low in upper 30s to low 40s. Mostly sunny and unseasonably warm tomorrow. High in upper 60s. -AP 
Turning halls into homes 
Unlike Notre Dame, Saint Mary's students are not living under the threat of a housing lottery. There is, however, talk of major shifts in the traditional housing system utilized by the College. 
With the event ofweekday parietals last semester ­generally hailed as a success and a major step forward for the College -an examination ofthe housing system itself was undertaken. 
Under the present system, the five College residence halls are segregated according to class, with Regina containing mostly freshmen; McCandless, freshmen and sophomores; Holy Cross, sophomores and juniors; LeMans, seniors; and Augusta reserved for juniors and seniors. This system often means a student resides in a hall for only a year before "moving up" to another dorm. 
The plan for weekday visitation passed.only with a promise to the Board ofRegents that students opposed to the new system would be offered alternative living conditions. The Board was concerned that parietals rules were being changed in the middle ofthe year. With the new system, the Ad­ministration stressed con­cern for students who were 
not  in  favor  of weekday  
visitation.  
Before  the  trial  period,  

130 students surveyed said that they were not in favor of weekday parietals. Shortly before Christmas, after the trial period for the new sys­tem, only 19 students indi­cated that they remained opposed to weekday parie­tals. 
In order to accomodate ~ these students, the College has set aside the fifth tloor ofRegina North -40 single rooms -for students who want only weekend parie­tals. Sister Karol Jackowski, director of residence life, says that section was chosen because "we felt we had to offer singles because ...there is a slim chance these stu­dents are going to know each other" and thus would have difficulty finding roommmates. At this point, however, not a single student has expressed interest in living in that section. 
According to Jackowski, the decision to retain or abolish the weekend-only parietals section will be made by College President John Duggan and Dean of Student Kathleen Rice within the next few weeks. 
The lack ofinterest in a weekend-only parietals sec­tion is the result ofthis year's experience with the new weekday hours. While there was much unwarranted concern before the plan was tried, students have learned that weekday papetals are not very different from the weekend system. In fact, the weekday hours 

Margaret Fosmoe 
Saint Mary's Exec. Editor 
Inside Wednesday 
are not used widely and students no longer have to sit at the parietals desk during weekday evenings. 
While the present method of assigning housing is 
much better than the system used in the late 1960's ­
when housing was assigned according the student's 
grade point average -there is still room for improve­
ment. In order to improve the quality of residence life, 
the class-segregated hall system should be more closely 
examined. T There was talk ofintegrating the dorms, but 
this been "put on hold" according to Jackowski. 
There are a number of 
benefits to class-integrated 
residence hall life that could 
warrant the change. 
First, the present system 
of "moving up" to another 
dorm each year does not 
provide a "home" atmos­
phere. Living in the same 
dorm tor tour years allows a 
sense of permanence and 
belonging to develop. This is 
evident at Notre Dame, 
where the system ofliving in 
the same residence hall for 
four years greatly en­
courages participation in 
dorm government and ac­

tivities. -=: J.J~ Second, integrating the 
residence halls would allow 

better provision for student needs. For example, there 
are many upperclassmen who would like to continue 
living in Regina. They are discouraged, however, be­
cause the incoming freshmen are placed in that hall 
automatically. Because singles in the other dorms are 
scarce, many students who would benefit from a single 
are forced to live in a double, triple or quad. 
Most importantly, combining the classes within the 
dorms would provide a more diversified college ex­
perience. As residence life is now, underclassmen have 
no real opportunity to mingle with older students in a 
residential setting and vice-versa. Student life is 
homogeneous enough -anything that could be done 
to increase interaction between the classes would be 
healthy for the student body as a whole. 

r~~-~~~-~~~------------f 
~ cdl/oht:. ~am~ -d~<.intd111m,y1 r:Jf.u:ah1 YJu1wt1 t 

"Theme less" 
Design Editor..........Troy ..H>.steless" Illig Design Assistant.Carole ""way sleepless" 
Clark 
Layout Staff................................""show less" Typesetters ......... Reggie ""clueless" Daniel Tom ""classless"" Maclennan 
News Editor.... Mark ""tactless" Worscheh 
Copy Editor.. Diane ''studiesless" Dirkers 
Features Layout.Sarah ""dateless" Hamil· 
ton 
Joe "helpless" Musumeci Editorials LayoutTari "mindless" Brown Sports Copy Editor ..................."Needless" ND DayEditor ........jane ""less less" Panfil SMC DayEditor..Tim ""hopeless" Petters Typists .................. Betsy "copyless" Porter AdDesign .................... Paul "addless" Slota Pbotograpber ........... Ed "timeless" Carrol Guest Appearances.......... Dave "Pamless" Robinson, Bob Hope, SuUivan, Riccardi, huddleburgers, Tabs, & pickles devoured by boneheads, the mayor of 
LaPorte, the lipless wonder 
Reggie, wake up, February 2nd was last montb! 
~ ~ ~ 
l ~ 
! 
~ 
l 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Frrday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatron perrods The Observer rs published by the students of Notre Dame and Sarnt Mary s Col· lege SubscnphOns rna y be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntrng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. tnd1ana 46556 
The Observer rs a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lndrana 46556 

Special Offer! 
$1 
admission 
THURSDAY OHLY 
March] Washington ttall 8:00pm 




The Observer 
Law School to host 
counseling tourney 

Senior Bill Greason and junior Pat O'Malley ask for information about Turtle Creek Apart­ments from representative Betty Lower. Lower was in LaFortune yesterday afternoon along with landlords ofotherapartments, homeowners, and 
securi~y consultants for an off-campus open 
Ed Carroll) 

Thanks to $10,000 grant 
· Professors aid young area writers 
ByTONIRUTHERFORD Dame English Department, and used to stimulate the thought StaffReporter Jeanne Rodes, an English lecturer at process. Punctuation and spelling Saint Mary's. Jensen concentrates on mistakes are corrected in a game for­
Three professional writers from drama, Frese on fiction, and Rodes mat, Loux explained, citing an ex­Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are on poetry. ample: "Can you find the four teaching creative writing at three "There are rough days at times, missing periods?" South Bend elementary schools, but the children really love the This teaching method makes thanks to a $10,000 grant from the program" said Loux. This is a writing fun and interesting for the Indiana Committee for the tremendous change in attitude for children, she said. "There has been Humanities. the children who previously feared an enormous improvement in both 
Directed by Ann Loux of the Saint and disliked writing, she said. content and sense ofwhat is correct Mary's English Department and Thtt writing complements each seen in the children through this sponsored by Saint Mary's and the school's curriculum. If the students program. South Bend Community School Cor­are studying dinosaurs in class, that "We want t0 continue this poration, the project aims to becomes the subject of their program. The universities must get develop a better writing program in writing. At first, admitted Loux, involved to prepare the students for area schools and give classroom classroom teachers felt that the college literacy," she said. teachers a chance to observe met­program stole valuable class time, The grant soon will be reviewed hods of teaching creative prose. and the program could only be held by the Lilly Endowment Fund, and 
The program, which includes when there was nothing planned for the annoucement of awards will grades 1-6 at Kennedy, Madison and class. Now, however, Kennedy been given in mid-April. Perley Elementary Schools, began School has been so pleased with the Other projects related to the last semester. Funded by the grant, results that the professionals are creative writing program include a each writer has been able to work given prime time. pen-pal program between the with 15-20 children that have The program is not limited to children and students at Saint shown the aptitude to write. writing, according to Loux. Both Mary's. Weekly letters are written by 
According to Loux, the idea for verbal and imaginative exercises are the children, and the college stu­the program originated after she and used to get the children thinking, dents answer and assist with errors. JulieJenson, ofthe Saint Mary's com­and oral and written work is munication and theatre department, reviewed during the time alloted, In addition, a festival will be held attended the Fine Arts Festival at she said. at Saint Mary's in late April for the Perley. After watching the children lmprovjng attitude is a major goal, children, their parents, elementary perform a skit that had a poorly writ­accomplished through the use of school administrators, and in­ten script, Jensen felt they could do constructive criticism, she con­terested Saint Mary's students. A as well writing the skit themselves. tinued. Writing content is discussed, literary magazine compiled by the 
The teaching staff consists ofJen­with questions such as "What else children with the help of student sen, Dolores Frese, a published could you have said?" or "How else teachers will be distributed at that author and member of the Notre could you have described this?" time. 
• • • Class 

continuedfrom page 1 
ahead of us." · ''I'm. a little disappointed," said Dawahare referring to his second place finish. "But I'm not at all surprised at how close it was." 
"I'm pretty surprised because there were so many good teams," said Broussard of the sophomore class race. "We just had some new ideas." 
Gagliardi echoed those senti­ments: "There were a lot of really good tickets. For me to get 18/ with nine tickets, I can't be unhappy with that." 
Junior class .candidates Hockett and Schmitt could not be reached for comment. 
Borchers, who supervised the elections, termed the 74 percent turnout for the class of '86 "phenomenal" 
Tuesday, March 1  
Anthropology ALPA Government  Room 331 O'Shag Room 104 O'Shag Room 204 O'Shag  3:30 4:30 6:00  



·-----------------------·---------------~ 
..50..~--~'THE MA.IN EVENT" .&~ i 
~-~ Apnl9,1983 ~1 
1 

1983 SENIOR FORMAL RAFFLE 
$1.00 tickets available at aU dining halls during dinner and at Senior Bar through THURS MARCH 3. Many prizes, including tree bid to "THE MAIN EVENT", dinners and tickets to shows including "Second City Review" in chicago. 
Drawing March 3 at Senior Bar 
Student Government Cabinet Applications for 1983-84 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE from your HJII President &in the Student Govt. Office 
Get Involved! 

L----------------·------------···------.. 
By MIKE LEPRE 
SeniorSltlffReporter 
The Notre Dame Law School will host law students from twelve area universities in the regional client­counseling competition this Satur­day. 
Teams consisting oftwo members from each s<:hool will participate in the event, with the winning team advancing to the national competi­tion in New Orleans. 
Two second year law students, Amy Smith and John Firth will represent Notre Dame in the com­petition. 
Professor Robert E. Rodes of the Notre Dame Law School described the contest as "basically a program designed to give law school students experience in interviewing tech­niques." 
The program, first instituted here in the Fall of 1971 by former Law School Dean Shaffer, involves a sim­ulated "intake" interview. 
Rodes explains that the proce­dure involves "an individual posing as a client, and meeting his lawyer for the first time. The client is then questioned by the students as though they were invovled in a real case." 
The interviewing session involves one half hour of questioning, and then a fifteen minute consultation period between the two lawyers. The students will be judged during these periods by a team consistingof "two atto'rnies and one person with a background in psychology," according to t Theresa Zeman. Direc­tor of student client counseling at the Law School. 
"The judges will he strongly con­cerned with how the lawyers determine the clien.t's problem, how they handle themselves in the inter­view, and how they reach a desci­sion on their next course of action, to name a few," stated Rodes. 
"Most American law schools par­ticipate in the client-counselling competition," said Rodes,"and it is run by a committee under the guidance of the law school division ofthe American Bar Association." 
Regional competition last was held at Notre Dame in 1978, and the visiting schools include Valparaiso, 
Northwestern,  Loyola,  and  John  
Marshall.  
Participants  Smith  and  Firth  

"were picked after three rounds of competition here at the Law School, which have been going on for the past three weeks," said Zeman. 
"This competition is very impor­tant for the students," commented Rodes "because interviewing and counsefing is what lawyers do most, and very often this aspect is neglected in law schools. The program, then, is a good way for future lawyers to learn these tech­niques quickly." 
The competition will take place on the first floor of the law school building, with the first round run­ning from 8:30-11 Saturday morn­ing. The final round is slated to begin that afternoon at 2:15. All spectators are welcome to attend the proceed­ings. 
By SCOTT HARDEK 
StaffReporter 
More than 30 percent ofthe force that overthrew the Somoza govern­ment in Nicaragua was female. So claimed a film and lecture presenta­tion last night at the Center for So­cial Concerns concerning the role of women and the Church in Nicaragua. 
The film, entitled "Women in Arms," documented the Sandinist revolution of 1979, describing the major role women played in it and the subsequent restructuring of Nicaragua. The movie consisted largely of interviews with Sandinist soldiers and officials. 
After the film, Father Enrique Blandon and Reverend Patricia Castro, fielding questions focusing on the role of the church in the government, emphasized that the role of the Church in Nicaragua is different from America because the Church and state are not separated. As an example, Father Blandon cited five ranking Nicaraguan government officials who are clergy members. 
Castro also felt that the role of women in Nicaragua was vastly dif­ferent from that of American women. Nicaraguan women are pursuing their country's freedom along with their own as opposed to American women who just pursue their personal freedom, she said. Castro added that this additional motivation helps Nicaraguan women acheive their liberation. 
Both Castro and Blandon believe 
that private industry will return to 
Nicaragua, but that some reluctance 
is inevitable because wages will be 
higher as a result of the revolution. 
Film and lecture document role ofwomen in Nicaragua 
The0 oserver Wednesday, March 2, 1983-page 4 
U.S. Steel workers 
approve wage cuts 
PITTSBURGH ( AP) -The United The American Iron and Steel In­Steelworkers ofAmerica approved a stitute, an industry trade group, historic contract yesterday cutting estimates the industry's labor costs wages S 1.2S an hour and reducing were more than S26 an hour, includ­benefits in an effort to save jobs by ing benefits, before the settlement. helping the industry fight foreign Hourly wages prior to the settle­competition. ment averaged about S14. 
The USW's Basic Steel Industry The cost-of-living adjustment plan Conference ofabout 2SO local presi­-which, based on the Consumer dents from mills nationwide ratified Price Index, has given mill hands a 41 -month contract by a secret bal­more than SS an hour since 1971 ­lot vote 169-63, with three absten­will be eliminated through July of tions. 1984. 
The concessions -first in the Both sides also agreed to ask the union's 40-year history -took ef. government for help to stem im­feet immediately because the ports, which claimed about 2S per· 266,000 union workers affected by cent of the U.S. market in 1982. them do not vote on contracts under union bylaws. 
The granting of substantial wage reductions by so large a union is un­
• • • Joyce
matched in modern labor history. The United Auto Worker~ union ac­cepted wage freezes, but not cuts, to 

continuedfrom page 1 
help keep the struggling U.S. 

automakers afloat in recent years. continued. He recalled the fact that 
"The industry badly needed the he was the one that started hockey interim relief provided in the new as a varsity sport at Notre Dame. agreement. Collective bargaining 'Tm being made the scapegoat for has survived an important test," said the whole thing," Joyce said. "It was ). Bruce Johnston, a U.S. Steel Corp. unanimously decided by all of our vice president and chief negotiator administration (ie., the Faculty for the seven major companies Board in Control ofAthletics)." bargaining with the USW. Another decision Joyce made that 
navy. From left are former Presidents Gerald 
"While the agreement is not a per­has since triggered some frowns was 
Ford, jimmy Carter and Richard Nixon (far answer to industry's as
manent the the hiring of Gerry Faust head 
right). ( APPhoto) 

competitive problems, it is an im­football coach. portant and urgently needed con­When asked "Why Faust?", Joyce tribution to our recovery," Johnston responded, "because I was said. impressed with the kind of man he
Congressional approval unlikely 
The settlement eliminates the was and because of the players possibility of a summer strike in the we've gotten from Moeller and his industry, which is suffering its worst record there.
Reagan gas plan on back burner 
slump in four decades. "We still have great hopes he'll be The union estimates nearly successful," Joyce said. HeWASHINGTON(AP)-President We've got to face the issue. But it from older wells. 
143,000 workers were laid off in reasserted that Faust will stay atReagan's plan to accelerate the (the Reagan plan) will have a dif­Reagan said full decontrol would February and 21,SOO were working Notre Dame at least through the
deregulation ofnatural gas appeared ficult time in Congress, especially in bring lower consumer prices reduced schedules. Production is remainder of his five year contract.
headed yesterday for the congres­the Senate," B~ker told reporters. through open-market competition. 
below SO percent ofplant capacity. As for Joyce's own future, he said
sional back burner, with leaders A battle over President Carter's That claim is disputed by many. 
The pact, which immediately he plans to remain at Notre Dame forclaiming strong opposition from plan to partially deregulate natural replaced a contract scheduled to a while -at least for the next fewconsumers fearful that it could send gas snarled the Senate for months in In the House, the skepticism was expire in August, temporarily cuts years. He thinks that he and Hes·
prices soaring. 1977. Many of the Democrats who shared by Rep. Philip Sharp, D-lnd., 
wages $1.2S an hour, gives up cost­burgh probably the
Senate Majority Leader Howard participated in that filibuster say the chairman of the Energy and will retire at 
of-living increases and some holiday same time.
Baker, R-Tenn., conceded there was they are ready to wage the same kind Commerce subcommittee that will 
and vacation time. "Everybody looks at us as a team,"
little chance of expediting the ofbattle against Reagan. hold hearings on the Reagan plan in "I want to get back in there," said Joyce said. "There is no other uni­measure, particularly in the The Reagan plan would remove several weeks. 
steelworker versity has such con­
filibuster-prone, albeit Republican­all price controls by 1986. The Car­unemployed Wayne that had a 
Rair outside U.S. Steel's Homestead tinuity of great leadership. I suspectdominated Senate. The bill was sent ter program has been gradually lit~ "I know it will help the major oil Works in Pennsylvania, where 3,000 we've both been in it the longest."
to Capitol Hill from the White House ting controls since 1978, but would and gas producers. I :tm not con­people arc laid off and all I I steel­Although a few priests are beingon Monday. leave some of the lids in place even vinced it will help consumers," making furnaces are cold. 'Tm wil­groomed for Hesburgh's position,"We've got to do that some day. after Jan. I, 198S, especially on gas Sharp said in a statement. 
ling to sacrifice if! know I'm going to no one as yet has been selected to get back tu work and have a payc-train for Joyce's job. according to
r·..,.......,...~....,...-~-· .............,.....,..~ 

heck coming in again." · the Executive Vice-President.
IJ:::::===:::::::~ ~ COUNSELINE i
i A new service to the NO community i

GO BY 'UNCELEBRATED"... 2 
[ 239-7793 [

I i HOURS: 4·9pm Mon.-Thurs. i
THE STUDENT UNION IS SPONSORING 
I • HPC
~ ~ • •
I A PRE-ST. PAT'S DAY PARTY -;. ~ Counseline is a free, confidential i , ONEOFTHETOP IRISH BANDS .; [ telephone service that offers [ l professsionally taped materials that l ~cover a wide variety of student concernsl ' . d r 
proved yet.
[TAPE NO. TITLE t COntmue JfOm page 1 

Ol€ Clancy BROth€RS 
The chairman ofthe Freshman Ad­
l 1 Friendship Building l 

· \ 1 Dealing with Constructive Criticism \ The council agreed that all visory Council John Cerabino [ 8 Dealing with Anger [ elected hall officials, all student reported that the Freshman Formal 
] 9 Understanding Jealousy & How to Deal ] .

•[ with tt [ body officials, and all varsity athletes is running in the red, and he is l10 tiow to Say "No" l should be exempted from the lot-considering cancelling the event. 
[ 16 Becoming Open to Others [ 

The council suggested that the
ha Dating Skills ] tery.t30 Anxiety & Possible Ways to Cope with II ~ Carroll Hall President Mike Carlin dance be made a singles event with l32 How to Deal with Loneliness ( 
tickets being sold at 52 per couple.
~ 33 How to Handle Fears ] reminded everyone that "the lottery [ 35 Building Sail-Esteem & Confidence [ is still a last resort. The HPC doesn't McAuliffe said that the dance will be ] 37 Relaxing Exercises ] want to force people to move off-in the South Dining Hall, and that the
[ 38 Coping with Stress [ 
] 39 Female Sax Role-Changes & Stress l campus." 

hall presidents should encouragei44 Learning to Accept Yourself ~ In other business, an amendment freshmen in their dorms to attend. [ 61 What is Therapy & How to Use It [ McAuliffe also read a letter from
to change the Student Union Steer­

., 
I
] 83 How to Cope with a Broken Relationship ] 

1 
[ 85 Understanding Grief [ 
ing Committee to include the stu­Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer that 
. 

1.90 Helping a Friend l dent body president, vice-president, encouraged students to stay off the 
[ 160 Early Signs of an Alchohol Problem \

WEDNESDAY 
treasurer was

1161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking [ and passed. The grass on the quads. 
] 402 Sell-Assertiveness ] amendment to change the name of Callaghan made applications for
MARCH 9, 1983 8 pm 
[ 431 What Is Depression r I the Student Union has not been ap-student government positions
] 432 How to Deal with Depression l 

[ 433 Depression as a Lila Style ~ available to all students. Those in­] 478 Becoming Independent from Parents • 
terested can pick up applications

MORRIS 
[ .479 Dealing with Aichoholic Parents [ l 491 Suicidal Crisis l 
from their hall presidents.

i492 Recognizing Suicidal Potential in Others~ 
Buy Mary Daley reported that 300i493 Helping Someone in aSuicidal Crisis \ 
CIVIC 
people have already confirmed their

AUDITORIUM 
intention to attend L'il Sibs 
~ ~ 

[ Counseline is acompletely anonymous [ Weekend. 
] service offered by the Counseling & ] Observer 
Stanford Hall President John
[ Psychological Services Center. UNO ~

TICKETS $5.50 &$6.50 
Greer announced that Alex Haley
J For Further Info or Assistance • 

~Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9·5 i will deliver a lecture here in April and that Crosby, Stills and Nash are 
AT SU BOX OFFICE 
~ i

AFTERWARDS BRING YOUR TICKET STUBS TO 
tentatively scheduled to be here
i .~ classifieds

RAFfERTY'S FOR DRINK SPECIALS 211D REQUIRED 
during An Tostal.
L.--~~_:~~:::~----3 






----~-------------~--~ --,.---~­
The Observer Wednesday, March 2, 1983-page 5 
Reagan against proposals 
House approves youth jobs bill 
Tornado in L.A. 
Storms, floods pumlllel California 

LOS ANGELES (AP)-A devastat­ing Pacific storm hurled a tornado into the fringes of downtown Los Angeles on yesterday, cutting a three-mile scar ofdestruction, while floods sent many Californians scram­bling to rooftops and mudslides blocked highways and railroads. 
The death toll rose to seven in the worst of a series of back-to-back West Coast storms with at least seven injured in the tornado. 
Meanwhile, storms in the Gulf of Mexico drenched the Southeastern coastal states with heavy rains, but March came in like a Iamb over most of the central part ofthe country. 
The twister damaged 90 to 100 homes and a hospital, ripped off the sides of buildings, tossed cars around like toys and took off much of the roof of the Los Angeles Con­vention Center. 
Police reported that several people were arrested for looting. 
National Guard troops and res­cuers in boats helped evacuate hundreds, from the Sacramento River Valley of northern California 
The twister damaged 90 to 100 homes and a hospital, ripped offthe sides ofbuild­

.Los Angeles County Supervisor Kenneth Hahn said the area hit by the tornado, which touched down south of the University of California and moved into downtown to the convention center, looked like a "real disaster, a war street." 
He said one merchant whose print 
shop suffered extensive damage 
watched helplessly as looters ran 
out of his shattered store carrying 
office equipment. 
Part of the the metal roof of the 234,000-square-foot convention center landed on four cars and a United Parcel Service truck was tlipped onto another car. "We were waiting for the red light and every­thing went white and black," said UPS driver Louis Ortiz. "We were right in the middle ofit." 
The Southern Pacific Railroad's coastal route was blocked when 50 feet oftrack was covered with 4 to 5 inches of mud about 70 miles northwest of Los Angeles. A spokes­man said all trains were held up at Santa Barbara. The railroad's main inland route to Los Angeles was blocked when a bridge in Newhall was closed by high water. In north­ern California, a 240-foot trestle washed out at Gerber, halting Amtrak trains. A mudslide blocked sections ofthe Pacific Coast Highway in the Malibu area ofsouth­ern California and another was 
reported in the area north ofCastaic Lake. 
The 20-foot waves and 55 mph winds that pounded Santa Barbara kept Queen Elizabeth II and her royal yacht from docking at the city harbor, where the bad weather halted dredging. The weather also spoiled plans for the queen and President Reagan to go horseback riding. 
Forecasters say another storm is expected to hit today. 
ings, tossed cars around like toys, and took off much ofthe roofof the Los Angeles Con­vention Center. 
to the shores ofMalibu Lake near Los Angeles, where water was up to the eaves ofsome houses. Mobile homes tloated away in some areas. 
Winds gusted to 84 mph, snap­ping power lines to thousands of homes, up to 5 inches of rain fell in places, and parts of the Sierra 'levada were smothered by 7 feet of new snow. 
Tehama County Sheriff Ron Koenig said 500 to 800 people were evacuated along the Sacramento River. including the entire town of Tehama, and at least 300 homes were tlooded in Red Bluff. 
"We were rescuing people off roofs," Red Bluff police dispatcher Susan Myers said. 
Another l00 people were evacuated when water surged over a dam and poured 5 feet deep trough a mobile home park near Santa Ynez, 100 miles northwest ofLos Angeles. 
WASHINGTON (AP) The House, resurrecting a :"'ew Deal idea of a half-century ago. approved an American Conservation Corps program yesterday to provide as many as 100,000 park and forest jobs for youths. 
The bill, approved 301-87, calls for S60 million this year and $300 million for each of the next five years in a program fashioned after the Civilian Conservation Corps that Congress approved early in Franklin 
D. Roosevelt's first term as presi­dent. 
Additional legislation is needed to provide the money itself for the program. President Reagan is against it. 
Although relatively small in size and limited in scope, the measure is the first the Democratic-controlled House has approved this year to combat the recession. 
A S4.6 billion bill to provide public works jobs and humanitarian assistance is expected on the floor tomorrow and party leaders have promised additional legislation in the future. 
"This is real. It is not make-work." Rep. john Seiberling, D-Ohio. said in leading the argument for the American Conservation Corps. 
Seiberling said officials of the Forest Service and Park Service are pleading for laborers while un­employment is very high among young people, black youths in par­ticular. 
Rep. Douglas Bereuter, R-Neb., also said young people who sign up corps would do the "back-breaking, unglorious tasks" of preserving federal parklands. 
But other Republicans protested vigorously. 
"This is a perfect symbol of the 1930s," said Rep. Bill Frenzel, R­Minn. "These aren't permanent jobs and they may not be useful jobs. They're probably the most ex­pensive jobs we've ever had." 
Added Rep. Trent Lott, the No. 2 Republican in the House, "It makes good political sense to support it. But I ask you to look beyond the title and ask if we really can afford a new project." 
A similar bill passed the House last year but died in the Senate. Ad­ministration officials chose not to fight it on the floor. leaving Republicans worried about un­employment free to vote without pressure. 
Democrats and Republicans have said thev intend to propose several other steps to deal with the reces­sion, perhaps including health care for the unemployed, restoration of some previous cuts in food stamps and assistance to homeowners facing mortgage foreclosures. 

Budgpt SPECIAL 
rent acar SPRING BREAK DISCOUNT 
" 

Bring this Qd in for ffiinimum tentQI J10.00 off out 9 dQ!JS, CQIS only, speciQI student good from 3/10 rates!! i thtu 3/21/83. 
CALL EARLY TO llESEBVE YOUR CAB!! PHONE 287-2333 
I 
r 
' 
t 
'
I Il Ii ' 
r 
i I I 
t ! 
I ! 
•• I 
i 
·i 
f l' l I·' 
I 
: -1I
I 
I 
Editorials 
Wednesday, March 2, 1983-page 6 
Putting on new clothes 
I recently attended a crowded costume party in a downtown Chicago hotel. There were nearly 2,000 of us having a great time until someone fainted and did not recover. I was about to move for a closer look until I remembered what I was wearing. 
Steve Pogue 

Guest Columnist 
I was dressed in a surgeon's scrub suit as part of my friends' tribute to the M-A-S-H 4077th. I had eagerly borrowed that costume: being a doctor was a childhood dream and being Hawkeye was a more recent one. There was a long delay in getting medical personnel 
to the hotel ballroom and I felt conspicuous in 
my pale green scrubs. Dr. Walter "Hawkeye" 
Mitty retreated to his hotel room. 
Afterwards I wondered how many other costumes I had worn during the year. We seem to judge people by how they appear. We dress for success for an interview, a party in Morrissey, or for that person in our account­ing class. But our suits hold no super powers and our performances don't seem to match the inner reality. 
We not only dress up for people; we dress up for God. J.B. Phillips, in introducing his translation ofthe New Testament, states: "The great difference between present-day Chris­tianity and that ofwhich we read in these let­ters (the New Testament) is that to us it is primarily a performance, to them it was a real experience ... To these men (the apostles) it is quite plainly the invasion of their lives by a new quality of life altogether. They do not hesitate to describe this as Christ 'living in' them." 
As a high school sophomore I remember hearing a group of medical students speak in church about God "living in" them. They talked about God in personal terms as if they had just finished eating breakfast with Him. They attributed this rapport to a committ­ment: they had "invited Christ in." 
I have always considered myself religious, but I sensed that my relationship with God couldn't be described as very personal or vivified. I would call it private and predict­able: it surfaced when I went to church or got into trouble. But I had always felt like God was part of my life, so why invite Him in? 
A priest involved with the parish renewal movement put it this way: "We had no need to be 'born again,' we were already baptized; we had no need to be converted, we were born Catholics; we had no need to be 'saved,' we had the Sacraments; we had no need to read the Bible, we heard it on Sundays ... We had no need for anything, except that new life ­that abundant life that was promised us." 

A lifetime ofdressing up for God ends with­out life. St. Paul explains this discovery: "For it was through reading the Scripture that I came to realize that I could never find God's favor by trying -and failing -to obey the laws. I came to realize that acceptance with God comes by believing in Christ. I have been crucified with Christ; and I myself no longer live, but Christ lives in me." 
Lent tan be the time to laughingly sacrifice pork cutlets and cold beets or to earnestly forego beer and General Hospital. Or it can be the time to find new clothing that lasts. 
A continuing trade-off: swords for plowshares 
There is no such thing as a free lunch in thousands of inner-city grade schools anymore. The S1.6 million needed to build one Trident nuclear submarine was slashed from the Child Nutrition program. It was a typical trade-off berween defense spending and social subsidies in the funding feud 
Lisa Twardowski 

Guest Columnist 
founded on the Reagan Administration's at­tempt to balance the budget with a military build-up. 
It seems both ironic and immoral that our hunger for national security means that 25 million Americans still go to bed hungry. The budget for fiscal year 1982 transferred over 525 billion from the social spending sector to the Department of Defense. And yet statistics 
Challenging "hogwash" 
DearEditor: 

There comes a time in the course of human events when confusion reigns and the truth is seldom heard. This is especially true now with the recent editorials on abor­tion, sexuality, ethics, and the dictatorship ofthe Catholic Church. 
Let's first discuss "name withheld," who meekly promoted abortions, hid behind euphemisms, and declined to sign its name. The letter begins commendably, "Not living in a utopian society ..."and I agree. Though Voltaire claimed that "we live in the best of all possible worlds,'' I myself have designed a few that are much better than the one we're in. But after this recognition of our present difficulties, the author proceeds with stupid mistakes. 
The first regards the multiplicity ofpeople involved in the decision to abort. What do the father or the doctor have to do with it? Next you'll be consulting the Moral Majority, or even the abortees themselves! 
Since there is so little real difference be­rween an embryo and a fetus, why legalize ·abortion primarily during the first trimester? Why not the second or third? Hell. why not , legalize post-natal abortions? It would be 

somewhat sterilize the suffering, for names become numbers and people become per­centages. The fact is that our national priorities perpetuate poverty. We seek security in stockpiles by funding an arms race founded on fear. The argument that we can appease any aggressor with arsenals of arma­ments is appealing to a peole preoccupied with the practical and tantalized by the tan­gible. Obsessed with omnipotence, we assume that safety is synonymous with strength. We feed on a facade and then impose the illusion on the innocent. Dollars diverted to defend our national interests means we much default on our duty to defend the dig­nity individuals deserve as images ofGod. We plunder the poor to pay the Pentagon, and camouflage the callousness in the name ofna­tional security. Under the pretense ofdefense we wage an offensive on the oppressed, as Bis­hop Gumbleton ofDetroit reflects: "The arms race itself is. to be condemned unreservedly because it is an injustice, even if those arms 
are never used. The arms race itself is an act of aggression against the poor."' 
Estimates suggest that 31 percent of the 1984 budget will be doled out to the Depart­ment of Defense. The criteria for deciding which citizens deserve compassion will become increasingly contingent on the social spending ceiling. The Reagan Administration is not malicious, but rather, misguided. The Machiavellian mentality is a myth, for human beings must never be treated as a means to an end. Paranoia must never persuade us to pur­chase power at the price ofpoverty. As Albert Einstein reflected, sophistication is no sub­stitute for civilization: "Not until the creation and maintenance of decent conditions of life for all men are recognized and accepted as a common obligation ofall men ... shall we ... be able to speak of mankind as civilized." 
The defense delirium is a desperate delu­sion that can only degenerate into destruc­tion. It is a hunger that heralds holocaust in a nation once known as a haven for the hungry. 

P. 0. BoxQ 
much safer for the mother than a late abor­tion, and ifthe baby is the wrong size, or mis­sing a few essential parts, get rid ofit. In fact, it would be much better to wait a year or two, maybe as long as ten or twenty, and 
then make the decision to abort or not. That way, geniuses, athletes, and beautiful people could be identified and brought to breeding age. Adolf, a much maligned genius, saw this as being the obvious path to the happiness and fulfillment of the human race. 
As a member ofthe top four percent ofthe nation, no Notre Dame student would have to worry about a "post-nat-ab" unless they flunked out, got excessively drunk, or broke parietals. 
I am against the author's attempt to justifY abortion with half-truths and distortions. 
Professor Rice claims: "The separation of the unitive and procreative aspects of sex will cause great suffering to individuals and society." This is supported only by mislead­ing statistics which disappear under close examination. These statistics are claimed in conjunction with natural family planning ( NFP ), which differs from all other birth control methods in that it doesn't separate the two aspects ofsex. It does this by requir­ing abstinence when the woman is fertile, an inconvenience which immmediately rules out its practicality. Note that NFP uses no drugs or marketable products, so that phar­maceutical companies can't make,a profit on 
it. This clearly contradicts American capitalisim and therefore NFP can be con­sidered a pinko commie plot. 
Ifanyone is offended by any ofthe sugges­tions I've presented, or takes them seriously, I hope they feel free to discuss them with me in any dark alley. 
Tihamer Togh-Fejel Asst. Wrestling Coach and EE Grad Student 

Arsenals of armaments threaten external enemies at the expense of threatening our in­tegrity as a nation of individuals inspired by common ideals. To defend against aggression by alienating underpriveleged Americans can­not be genuine national security; for, to quote a cliche, a chain is only as strong as its weakest link. The Christian challenge demands more than any communist confrontation could. It proclaims paradox, not paranoia, in the ex­ample of an omnipotent God who chose to become ultimately vulnerable upon a cross. Christianity speaks of a Savior who surren­dered to service on that hillside where 5000 that were hungry went home full. It is the challenge to create the Kingdom in democracy, as a poster by B.K Guillet envi­sions: "It'll be a great day when our day care centers have all the money they.need and the navy has to hold a bake sale to buy battles­hips." Perhaps Isaiah's prophecy is imminent, for ours are the hands which must hammer our swords into plowshares. 
Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subject to editing. 

DepartmentManagers 

----... _......__------­
Editorial Board 

Box Q, NotreDame, IN46556 
Editor-in-Cbief.............................. Michael Monk BusinessManager .............................Tony Aiello 
Tbe Observer is the independent newspaper published. by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive NewsEditor ..............David Dziedzic AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen 
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe :Production Manager..................Maura Mutphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
SportsEditor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Mi~mo
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ......................... , ...Paul McGinn SystemsManager...........................Bruce Oakley 
the viewsoftheir authors. Column space is avajlable to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ............................ Joe Musumeci

and the free expression ofvarying opinions ongn.tp~~· throughletters, is encouraged. 
Pboto Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303. 
---~------~------~---­
Switch on the light 
" Good night, dear. I love you." "I love you, Mommy." A calming silence eased under the cover ofdark soon to be broken by, 
"Mom!" 
"What's the matter?" 
"It's dark." 
Click! 
"Good night." 
"Good night." 
There was one in my room, my little brother Mic­
hael's room, the main bathroom, and Mom and Dad's bathroom. The little night lights were plugged directly into the outlets to provide flickers oflight throughout the night. They prevented me from walking into the walls. (I had this perpetual habit ofwalking into walls. A 
TatiBtown 
features 
severe case ofabsentmindedness was at fault.) The darkness only augmented my tendency to run into my old friend, the plasterboard wall. 
Knowing that there was a night light switched on somewhere in the house relaxed me, and, ifthe walls could be personified, probably put them at ease. No sil­ly human being denting my surface, it was probably saying to itself 
IfI acquired a particular thirst or a hacking cough at some absurd hour ofthe night, I knew that my journey to the kitchen for a glass of juice would be aided by the guidance ofa tiny night light. 
It wasn't that I was afraid ofthe dark. It wasn't the dark that scared me. It was the things that were hidden in the darkness that scared me. Although I knew every nook and cranny in that house, it was difficult to main­tain that familiarity in the dark. 
There came a time -as there comes a time in 
everyone's life -when the burnt-out night light bulbs 
weren't replaced. We were older and supposedly our 
fear ofthe dark (or, in my case, ofthe walls) had passed 
away along with the death ofthe bulb's filament. 
So, the socket was pulled out ofthe outlet and pushed to the back ofthe utility drawer -the one with the bent screwdriver and the blunt-tip scissors in it. When the hall light was turned out, the only glimmer oflight was that which seeped through the crack between the window shade and the glass. Moon light was the only guidance. 
Instead offumbling in my temporary blindness, I memorized the location ofevery single light switch in the house. Even that was not enough. I still ran into walls, aml, to the disdain of my light-sleeping mother, woke her with my knocking over ofkitchen chairs and the vacuum sweeper. 
I tried countingand memorizing the number ofsteps it took to get to any particular place that Iwould need to go in the middle ofthe night. 
My system didn't always work. Occasionally I would trip on the bedpost -at the end ofmy bed -and land on the other side of my bed. 
I relied upon my senses, and they failed me more of­ten than they helped. The darkness was still there to be faced and yet I had no way ofwalking through it without hurting myself 
The nemesis enveloped me and Iwanted to escape it, to find a light to guide me through and past my plaster­board terrors. So, I closed my eyes. 
Afunny way ofescaping, closing my eyes. To escape the darkness, I delved deeper into it. I surrounded myselfwith my own darkness. 
With my eyes closed, I wouldfeel my way around. Not with my hands always, often they rested at my side, but with an instinctive spatial sense, a sixth or seventh sense. I felt like a blind person, who hears the singing of the darkness and feels the soundofthe electricity ofthe clock as it ticks offthe night's minutes, and is guided through his darkness by an inner sense. 
The first few times I tried it, I doubted the voice inside that told me where to go and altered my direc­tion in the opposite direction. Consequently, I ran into the wall a few times, tripped over a few stairs, and ran face first into the window. When I began to trust my spatial sense, I stopped meeting the walls in the dark. Their subsequent loneliness grew in direct proportion to my ability to avoid them without the use of my eyes, without any source oflight, except for the light inside. 
My fear of the dark had been conquered. It was easy enough. I just turned on the lights. The only difficulty was finding the right light switch to disperse the dark­ness. 
Afraid ofthe dark? Close your eyes and walk. There's always an "I love you" inside to light the way. 
The gteGt exodus 
Y
esterday there was an "open house" in the lobby ofLaFortune so that students interested in moving off-campus next year could get detailed information abQut the various options open to the prospective o-c'er. 
Most ofthe major apartment com­
plexes were represented, as well as 
several private landlords. I didn't 
bother to look into it in detail, be­
cause I have already found several 
Joe musumeci 
looking off 

people with little enough self­
respect to take me into their 
domicile next year; 1 had in fact, 
made the decision to move off­
campus early into last semester. 
Nonetheless, I was interested in the 
types who were milling around yes­terday and picking up free brochures. Talking to a few of them, I discovered that many ofthem had never even considered the option of leaving the haven oftheir dorm; parents who just didn't understand and financial considerl!tions were two ofthe most common reasons proffered. 
But now ... 
Thanks to the beloved administra­tion ofour illustrious institution, many who would not have been allowed to "hit the streets" are being forced to. Last minute arrangements are the catchword as those in fear of exile search frantically for another three or four people in the same predicament. 
Some suggestions for those who are just now facing expatriation and have had no time to put any serious planning into effect: 
First ofall, have someone in the housee or apartment with a car. No matter how close to campus you may be, there will always be times when "close to campus" isn't narly enough synonomous with "on­campus." Moving off-campus (especially when it can be clearly blamed on the administration and not on your own silly desires to live the life ofa sultan) is a great excuse to either con your parents into giving you a family carfor the year or buy another mode of transportation so they don't have to deal with worrying about frostbite insurance. 
A second suggestion is to try and switch your university status to that ofa female grad student (for many of us, this will not be too practical) and apply for residence in the O'Hara­Grace townhouses. They are the best housing deal in South Bend with regards to price, space and proximity to campus. 
Once you have chosen some­where to live off-campus and taken care ofhow you are going to get back and forth, there is the question ofsecurity. No matter where you live, it is best not to advertise too blatantly the fact that you are a stu­dent. Even the most timid of criminal types are attracted by a residence which can be assumed to be empty a large portion ofthe day. Ifyou live in an area highly pop­ulated by permanent residents, ask them to keep an eye on the house during the day. 
Ifyou have a dog trained to protect a home, you are sitting pret­ty. Buying and training such an animal, however, is expensive and takes a great deal oftime. There is also the problem ofwho keeps him/her when the year is over. The simplest solution is to buy a large number ofintimidating snakes. Of course, when one is talking snakes, any number over one is considered intimidating; any thoroughgoing burgtar will eventually discover your pet boa in his search for the matchingpants to your Cardin inter­view suit. Take a humorous ap­proach to naming your snakes; Fido, Spot and Indiana ("I hate snakes") 
Jones are current favorites. By the way, folks, I'm dead serious -_ friends of mine forced to live off­campus in downtown D.C. have had great luck in warding offthe forces ofevil with a pair ofpotential Guc­
ci's. 

The most important thing to remember about moving off-campus is that it is fun. There is much to be said for the spirit ofdorm life (depending on the dorm in which you reside). But it is true that life in a house or apartment is a little more excitingand a little more rewarding. And ifyour worried about missing the little traumas that you have shared so closely with your on­campus friends, just wait till February when the heat kicks off. Life never changes that much, it just gets more practical. Oh, and the stories about the steady flow ofal­cohol and the libertarian behavior are just not true. 
I swear it ... 
Ifyou are. really thinking about making the big move, there's one last, very important thing to remem­ber. It's much easier to call a house or an apartment ...Home 
·­

TWISTING is fun 
A
fter the critical and comercial success -the latter was greater than anyone could have expected -oftheir fourth LP,Love over Gold, Dire Straits has, with almost breakneck speed, rushed out a four-song extended-play disc in order to prove that there is more to this British band than serious, ponderous epics. It's calledTwisting by the Pool, and more than anything else, it shows that Dire Straits and their leader, guitarist, and songwriter Mark Knopfler have anoth­er side to them, and this side is a lot offun. 
Not since the top-five successofthe early 1979"Sultans ofSwing" has Dire Straits had a big hit in the States. While each oftheir four a!­
Tim Neely 
record review 

bums has attained top-20 status, only one ofeight singles released by 
Warner Bros. in the U.S. has been that successful. While albums like Love over Gold and its predecessor,Making Movies, garnered criti­cal praise, they suffered from their lack ofan obvious hit single, i.e., one short enough that Top 40 stations could air without having to severely edit. On Twisting by the Pool, this is not a problem, as the longest song on the EP is a minute shorter than the shortest onLove overGold. 
Reacting to some scattered criticism that they were too serious, Knopfler and Co. rattled off these four songs in three days, during which time theiroriginal drummer, Pick Withers, left the band to be replaced by Terry Williams. Williams' influence is immediately felt on three ofthe four tracks on this EP; his style is more akin to rock than Withers' understated drumming on prior LPs. 
The one track on which Withers does appear is one ofthe two most interesting on the record, a bop-influenced piece entitled "Badges, Posters, Stickers, T-Shirts." On it Withers plays the drums with brushes and softly bangs the bass pedal every once in a while ­he is not obvious, but there, and something would be missing ifhe weren't. Knopfler plays his guitar as ifhe were Les Paul, a pre-rock star whose influence on rock is still felt. The guitar style is reminis­cent ofPaul's 1951 hit "How High the Moon." Alan Clark on piano comps,John Ilsley on bass walks, and Knopfler even does a little scat­singing, making for a piece that really moves. 
One song that is instantly catchy is the title cut, "Twisting by the Pool," which oddly celebrates the same disco scene that Knopfler puts qown in the lyrics to "Badges, Posters, Stickers, T-Shirts." Its title would seem to harken back to the early 1960s; actually, it owes more to songs like the 1965 hit by the Gentrys, "Keep On Dancing" (its two false endings), than those before it. This dance songis easily the most commercial song Dire Straits has ever recorded; ifit doesn't become a hit single here, as it has throughout much of the Western world, it will be a result ofcorporate greed (seldom are singles released from four-song EPs ). Hearing this song open the record is an immediate sign that things are different this time around. 
Flip the EP over, and it begins with the least noteworthy piece on the record, "Two Young Lovers." Again a song which harkens back to pre-Beatles rock and roll, the sax part, played by Mel Collins, is heavily influenced by tittle Richard records like "Keep a-Knockin'," but lacks the conviction. The whole song seems like an unintended parody ofthe love songofthe era-the "and they lived happily ever after" syndrome which Knopfler seldom expouds in his work. 
The last song, "Ifl Had You," is the other interestingpiece. With an organ right out ofearly electric Dylan (like AI Kooper on "Positively 4th Street") and a midtempo love ballad right out ofslightly later Dylan, Knopfler shows where his real influences are. 
Despite its flaws, Twisting by thePool can be listened to, has a good beat, and is danceable; I'd give it about an 85. It's not meant as a seriouswork like theirfull-length LPs; it's meant to be fun, and in that regard it succeeds. 
~j)()f1tS:J3::~:=i:~~=S===============================w=e=d=n=es=da=y~,M=a=r=ch=2=,=19=8=3===pa=g==e8
Br 7he Ohsen>er and Tbe Assodated Press 
The interhall office has announced a new set of deadlines for its spring sports. Thursday, Mar. 10 is the deadline for signups for the following sports: interhall men's softball, interhall women's softball, interhall baseball, interhall women's soccer, and an open soccer tournament (limited entry). Also, the inrerhall wres­tling tournament will start the first week after spring break. Watch The Observer for an announcement of the date. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will hold an important meeting today at~ p.m. in Caron Court, LaFortune. The fate of the spring season will be decided. Absence will be interpreted as a NO vote. Ifthere are any questions. call John at 6837.-The Observer. 
An Tostal innertubewaterpolosign ups will 
be on Sunday, March 6. There is a minimum ofseven players, includ­ing two girls, per team. Teams may not have more than two water polo players and one varsity athlete, or two varsity athletes. -The Obsen,er 
TheJ.V. lacrosse team will hold an organizational meeting for anyone interested in playing for the spring team tomor­row at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. If you cannot attend, call Austin Henry at 1025 or Rich O'Leary at 239-S 108.-The Observer The Ultimate Frisbee Club will be practicing behind Jake Kline field, weather permitting. The practices will run from .3:30 to S:30 Monday through Friday. New members are welcome. -The Obseruer 
Ski team members who have not picked up their rackets, sweatshirts or ski bags should contact Phil Panny at 277­3799 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Club will hold a 
meeting tomorrow in the LaFortune ballroom at 7:00 p.m. -The Obsen,er 
Herb Juliano, formerly the curator of the Memorial Library's Sports and (;ames Collection and currently in charge of research tor the Notre Dame athletic department, has been selected to represent the l lnited States Olympic Committee at a special ses­sion of the International Olympic Academy. The session will be held from june 23 through July I in Olympia, Greece, the site of the an­cient Olympic Games. Juliano was recenly appointed Vice Chairman of the Education Council of the USOC. -The Observer 


li!:'tmiNTERHALL 
INTERHALL BASKETBALL 
Division A Championship Game 
Grace 59. St Ed's 44 
Division B Championship Game 
Off-Campus 38. D1llon 30 
CLUB BASKETBALL Playoffs 
Round 1 

Tonight's Games Army Brats vs NROTC Gold Team. 7 p m. (Gym 4) Math Club v Ph1ladelph1a Club. 8 p m. (Gym 4) (Scuba Club and F1nance Club have byes) 
Round 2 

Sunday's Games Scuba Club v W1nner of Game 1. 7 p m (Gym 1) F1nance Club v Wmner ol Game 2. 8 p m. (Gym 1) 
Championship Tuesday, Mar 8, 6 p m at the ACC P11. 
GRAD LEAGUE BASKETBALL Championship Chairmen of tne Boards 43. Law School I 40 

The Observer w111 accept c1ass1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to msert1on. All class1fieds must be prepa1d. 
e1ther in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
HELP! Need a nde to MadiSon. WI th1s I need a nde tor two to NW Need an aggress1ve person to work on a DEAR M.A.S,L.T,L,K.S,J,A,B,S,C,ETC 
weekend. Call Martha 8024 Ch1cago(prelerably Des Pla1nes) leavmg commiSSIOn bas1s. here on campus THANK YOU ALL FOR MAKING MY 
4 & returmng Sun. 3 S1nger Gen T1re.Tnc. IS Interested 1n such
~_No_T_IC_Es~l I~_FO__R_RE_N_T~ Fn 3 6. W1ll gladly 
20TH GREAT! YOU ARE VERY SPE­Need a rrde to DALLAS for break. Call spirt costs Please call John at x3150. a person. For mto. call Tom Shanahan at CIAL PEOPLE AND I'M SO GLAD TO

Tom at 277-8061 Thank you 291·4616 Job opemng at Williams Home TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 House:4 bedroom. near NO, $250 per 
HAVE YOU ALL AS FRIENDS 

Center 1n sales and stock For 1nfo. call mo. Fall or summer. No ut1ht1es. Phone LOVE. MARYA (MISS TWIX) 
Need a nde to O'Hare Airport Fnday Need R1de to Ch1cago Fnday 3 4 83 Greg Richards at 291-8500 Job opemng DEAR MJ Ugly Duckling Friday
Rent-A-Car, (319) 322·8735 Patty March 11 Can leave 10:00 am. bul musl call Pelex3118 al Williams Home Center 1n N1les. Part· THANK YOU FOR MAKING EVERYnoon Ill Monday noon $29.95 Includes 
be al O'Hare by 3.00 pm Ch1cago 11me. t1me work needed 1n sales and stock. For 
150 free miles. Sales tax & Insurance 4 bdrm furnished house. near campus. Call T nsh 284-4421 DAY A SPECIAL ONE FOR ME. I'M SO 
HELP! Need nde to north JERSEY lor 1nto call Deb K1eler al683-2700. 
GLAD WE'RE HERE TOGETHER THIS

extra. Phone Rob tor reservations 259-On Noire Dame Ave Good cond111on 9 
break Call TOM at x 1750 8459. mo lease. $335 per mo Call 684-0933 RIDE NEEDED TO ANYWHERE IN 
YEAR CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION I LOVE YOU! 

(local call). UPSTATE NEW YORK--BUFFALO. RIDE NEEDED TO ROCH NY FOR Richard Steele, Sou1h African Con· MTYPING 
SYRACUSE ALBANY---WILl SHARE BREAK WANDA 7770 sclenllous ObJector TONIGHT, 8PM,Jack1e Boggs FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT 
USUAL--CALL CHRIS ANYTIME at 3510 Center lor Social Concerns 684-~793 SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO 277­
OR 8573 Alders Needed 1o Daylona Ft. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Studennt

3604 loans -$20-$200 One percent Interest. are still available lor Conn. Club's spnng Woody 277·0992 
GOING TO CONNECTICUT??? Seats Lauderdale lor break Leave 3 10 Call SC2: WILL YOU POSE FOR MORE 
Help! HomeSick freshman needs nde lo PICTURES? HOW ABOUT IN YOUR 
Due 1n one month. One day wa1t Open M break bus! Must call T1m al 2257 by Spm SHOWER CURTAIN? 
FURNISHED TWO ROOMS, PRIVATE NEW JERSEY lor spnng break Call L1sa -F. 1130-12·30 LaFortune Basement
ENTRANCE MALE PREF ALL UTILITIES PAID. 277-3604
Thurs.. March 31o s1gn up. Cost IS $90 or Laune · 3821 Need nde lo any pci1nt between Akron and NOTICE LAST DAY FOR MAY '83 Cmcy thiS weekend. Call Ralph 110 SC2: DO YOU WANT TO GO FOR SCJ? 
GRADS TO APPLY IS MARCH 9 !!! M-A-S·H MOVIE TONIGHT 6:30, 8.45 WE NEED MORE PICTURES! 
PHONE WORK-LOCAL BRANCH OF AND 11 PM CARROLL HALL HELP!!!I NEED A RIDE HOME TO BUF­
FOR RENT NOW -2 or 3 Bedroom, Full NATIONAL NOW HIRING FOR DAY OR Bath, Yard, Partly 1urn1shed $185 & $70 

EVENING HOURS EXCELLENT OP­FALO FOR SPRING BREAK HELP ME 
I thought l1le could only get better when 1 
Ut11illes DepoSit $200. Off Portage. 289-PORTANITY FOR STUDENTS HOURLY Need nde lo CANTONOh10 for break reached the p1ts It got wworse 1nstead. KRETURN TO THE MIAMI OF THE 
1687 SALARY & BONUS CALL MR. ANGELO NORTH MIKE AT 8704 Please call C1ndy at x2948 289-4040
LOST/fOUND \ .,...;=~--..........., 
Need nders to Palm Beach. FL Leav1ng SMC STUDENTS!' 

IMPORTANT I NEED A RIDE TO Thurs. March 10. Call Sue 5193 SMC HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY. ANNE' From Throw Your Hat In The R1ng!
EITHER INDY OR ANDERSON THIS Pud Apply For 
LOST PAIR OF SILVER FRAMED L.I__ WEEKEND CALL x1692 AND ASK FOR 
W_A_N_T_E_D_____.~ 
Needed R1de for two to Flonda lor break 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT COMMIS­GLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE Please call277-1709 hony Jude Rademaker (RAT) Warn1ng.
DAVE ANYTIME Surfs up 1n So. California. Dnv1ng to 
SIONERS!! THE CASE WAS FALLING APART AND Fehc1a IS eat1ng you 1n your sleep! Clue 
March 2-7 

Cahtorma for spnng break? I could use a NEW JERSEY! RIDE NEEDED TO
IS HELD TOGETHER BY A PIECE OF R1ders needed to NYC CONN area Call x2 BUG-HI?? liH. G1ve M1ke a call at x 1688 Thanks NORTH CENTRAL NJ FOR SPRING 
P1ck up app11Cat1ons

SILVER DUCT TAPE IF FOUND Kalhy 284-5322 
tn Student Act1v1t1es OH1ce PLEASE CALL PHIL AT 8295 LOOKING FOR FUN IN THE SUN OR
BREAK PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906 RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY NEW YORK 
DUE BY MAR 7! 

DESPERAEL Y NEEDED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! JUST HEADING SOUTH? NEED FOR SPRING BREAK---CAN LEAVE NEED RIDE TON VA DC AREA FOR 
RIDERS TO MYRTLE BEACH OR AIKEN ANYTIME WILL SHARE USUAL CALL BREAK CAN LEAVE MARCH 1Olh
FOUND Two different sets ol keys. One SOUTH CAROLINA AUGUSTA Col.
FOR SALE

CHRIS AT 3510 OR 6573 ANYTIME---CALL JIM AT 1763 
set lound on South Quad near Cush1ng GEORGIA AREA CALL ED AT 233-6311 To my livable. lovable. laughable. pa1n two weeks ago On Amencan Express WILL LEAVE FRIDAY NIGHT 1n the ·ss, I really am 1n love w1th you ·lotsNeed RIDE to CINCINNATI lor break Will I need a nde to Bostton I mean I need aKey nng. Other set lound about two and lots. 
weeks ago near Bad1n Hall. On metal nng: share usual Terry 6714 nde to Boston Chns 1774 FOR SAIL Off1c1al Notre Dame Sa11ing Your Threatener Club T-sh1rts Blow your lnend(S) away' possibly Hall Staff keys. If yours. call and PITTSBURGH CLUB .Seats still
VOLUPTUOUS BLONDE needs a nde PURDUE: I live there! And unfortunately. We ve been do1ng a BOOM1ng bUisness home to the Mtnn-St. Paul area tor spnng available for Spnng Break Bus. Round tnp 1dent1fy them. Call M1ke at x1404 
I m g01ng home lor Spnng Break! If so order fast belore they re all gone! Call break. II you re go1ng my way, call Sue at anyone happens to be plann1ng on pas­Lou at6713. $45 00 and One ways $29.00. Call Bnan 
GOING TO CONNECTICUT??? Seats Large 
are still ava1lable for Conn Club·s spnng $REWARD$ 
2170. xt743
smg llhrough lhere on the way to some­break bus! MUST call T1m at 22571ly8pm
place beller (or even actually go1ng there KAPLAN MCAT books for sale call 7252 
-tor the return or whereabouts ol HP-11 C 

PITTSBURGH CLUB Seats st111 Thurs . March 3 to s1gn up. Cost IS $90A1de Needed to I U weekend ol March 4 to stay), call Tom x1396 I need a ndel call Jerry 6756 available for Spnng Bus Call Bnancalculalor taken lrom a blue backpack al ThanksSMC D1n1ng Hall Thur mght, 2-24. No x1743 Chervt-Pilon Happy t 9th B1rthdayques11ons asked. Has Personal Value.­
You re legal tn P11oen1x Only 9 moreWANTED· need one RIDER to come back TAKING RIDERS TO MADISON LeavmgPiease call K1m -4176 

from HOUSTON. TEXAS to NO. Will be TICKETS Need ride to NJ Can bring riders backI days Hope you had a great day. 
Thurs Call W.S. x1813 returmng on either the 18th or the 19th of Call KATHY 2947FOUND: Girl's watch ouls1de North Need ride to New Jersey. Can bring
March. Will split the usual costs. Call HELP R1de needed to I. U weekend ofD1mng Hall on the 16th. Call 2905. 
rider back to N.D. Call Kathy 2947. Merwyn Thomas, come out of the croset. 
Rosemary al6858 or Kelly al 6715 3 4 C1ndy 284-4064 I NEED 14 TICS FOR DAYTON GAME­
CALL 1751 Need RIDE lo Phladelph1a or W1lm1ngton. lace reality, and get off your throne ThereLOST Lad1es gold walch at the bars 
HELP! Need 1 nde lo N FLORIDA Can De area lor spnng break Please call Mall leave almost anyt1me Rose 7957 or 7956 Need DAYON TIX $$ J1m 233-2386 IS still a year belore 1984 
Salurday n1ghl Please call L12 x8084 SENIORS!!!!!!!!! 
Thanks. 7374 Come and dance an eventng away tn the ACC Monogram rm. There w1ll be hot and 
TAKING RIDERS TO MADISON Leav1ngPITTSBURGH! PITTSBURGH'! NEED A 
LOST· Black Nylon "Loop" Jacket at lhe Cold snacks. open bar from 7·30 to 9·00.
Need nde to MINNESOTA lor spnng RIDE TO PITTSBURGH THIS Thurs Call W.S. x1813 
Blue L1ne Club after Saturday's hockey and danc1ng 1111 1·00 You can purchase
treak Can lea ve anyt me Ca I I Ma-g , WEEKEND! HELP ME! Can leave Fnday game Keep the coat . but please return 
PERSONALS 
your tickets at $5 00 per person lrom your 
SMC4173 and return Monday Call Martha, 283· J1m Hess IWYBFS Happy Birthday-22 IS 
my eyeglasses. Please lurn 1n to losl and 

hall rep or the student actiVIties off1ce 1n found at Adm Bldg 1514 LaFortune Be there on Fnday March 25, lhe besl 
nde needed lo VIRGINIA lor spnng break­I . .. . ... . . . . . . 
1983!!!!!!! HELP'!! I ve lost a gold cross and cham-­
-can leave early. call Shelly x8148 VANDERBILTl. VANDERBILT! I NEED A R1de HEY EVERYBODY'!! Katie Gilligan has a
Need To Connecticut For Spnng . Sat nite 2 26, belween Farley and 02 RIDE TO VANDERBILT OR NASHVILLE Break W1ll Share Usual Please Call Dan 
luiUre! Congratulate the new Loyola Law Alder to Cleveland lor weekend Leav1ng AREA FOR SPRING BREAK Can leave at x6824 School student tn town! SOSH CongratulatiOns and good luck on
oark1ng lot PLEASE call me. Kate. at '1(3838 1f you have any mto--1t means a 

Th. at 5. Call Beth 259-6242 12th or 13th Call Martha. 283-1514 your last BIRTHDAY under the ·Golden 1! great deal to me. JPW proofs JPW proofs on display Fri Dome (I know what a Rah!Rah! you NEED A RIDE FOR 1 2. OR 3 PEOPLE LOVELY LASS needs •1r1e to In· Feb 25, Mon Feb 28 -Wed Mar 2 In Pupp1es. are and how vou II mtss all the Pep TO DC AREA FOR BREAK ,CALL 6749 
J NERE YOU AT FLANNER'S BASE­dtanapolls tor spnng break I can leave Sou1h Alcov• at LaFortune. 12·5 each Good luck at M1dwest Go for 1t Ral!tJ.ts ' T~anks tor everythtng Goad ~ MENT f'ARTY SATURDAY NITE? DID Wed. March 9 If •tou re gomg my way. day. Bring coupon lor rree pictureI Katte and Jam1e lucf'i -..l'Od S()Pi'!:J and Semper F1! Need two ndes to P1ttsburgh lor break call L1sa at .1882 Thanks! 
I 
YOU PICK UP MY JEAN JACKET BY 

Call Paul6251 
ONE or TWO RIDES needed to the GAR· '<EW COULD YOU PLEASE RETURN RIDERS NEEDED-Ooe-way lrom Boston DEN STATE lor Sprrng Break Yes. we do LEWIS 2 Congratulal1ons on a good ND MENS ~:.N1MMING GO FOR THE ;j? CALL SUE AT 3560 OR 6810 FAR-PLEASE HELP need nde to WASH DC to NO on 3 20 Glb-6827 want to go to NEW JERSEY lor break Will season. Celeste, Tnc1a. Sue. M1m1. GOL; .• GOODLUCK. THE WOMEN LEY315 pay the uusual Please (PLEASE) call Jackie. Karen. and Julie Tom, Rob. and ACCIDENT? LEVI'S JACKET, PRETY 
lor break W1ll share usual Maura X2244 Need R1de to easlern PA lor Spnng Sarah at t36t or Mary at 1272 !'lease!!!!! .Joe DESPERATE! Need R1de To Northern Break Allentown Hamshq area. W1ll FRE:':.HMEN >,lf:t>;:, SWIMMERS Lost· A gold relig1ous medal w1th Mary on N J OR NYC Can LEAVE By t2 Noon share usual Call Dean. 6647 Thanks CONNECTICUT Dound?l We ne.-,d Pnnce K11patnck -D1d you lmd your c,n­SHlhli EM NhAT YOU CAN DO IN I he front and Lynn Mane 5 9 71 on the ON Frrday THE 12TH W1ll SHARE The 
(oesperatelyJ ONE or rwo ndes to CON­deralia saturday n1ght? Love. the Chras· CHICAGO! oack. It was losl on the way to the Cred1t USUAL. CALL JERRY AT 3893 Please call Wf'HE BE"INDYOU ALL THE WAY
D C. tor Easter NECTICUT for Spnng Break hers.IUn1on on Fnday. IllS of greal senllmental N"ed nde to D.C lor Easter Break Would Mary at 1272 orSarah at 1361 Will pay 'I '1E FUN FRESHMEN I value' If found. please call x1271 !! SYRACUSE BOUND? I need a 11de to like to leave on 3-30. Please call Chuck al the usual Danny Mo Don 1 you w1sh you had sox and or lrom Svr 1801 mans bones? You too could be m1ster
NY for Spnng Break Thank You 
Someone claimed my black ski jacket Will share usual.· Call B1ll x1374 PAl RICK TOOLE HAPPY ANNIVER­
macho, hav1ng all the girls all over youfrom ACC Security abou1 two weeks
I 
Need rrde to Ph1lly. NYC. Bano.. or DC 3Job Bank Hav1ng no g1rl ever say no to you That SAhY'i ~V116 .;0u! L 1 NOV ago. IrSNOT YOURS. Please turn Into Need ride to OMAHA lor break. Can 
Wednesday before break (March 9). Call 1 Job opemng al Trans-World Art1sts sell· sure would be a change lor you See you 
Lost & Found or contact me x1025. leave Wed. Call Dan x6740. Will8659 And:e Muen1nghott 
1ng llckets over the phone tor a Country at Lee s Or w1ll you be lifllng at lhe Roc<I ................................................................ W8stern show A separate job dehvenng that mght? T,..rtnks for the flowers! You made our 
I 
:.OST:one F---THE DRAFT button. If Need a RIDE TO PITTSBURGH for 
ST. LOUIS ST LOUIS Need nde to St these tickets IS also open For mto. call day. \ou rea super guy :ound, please call 8704 anyt1me. break. Can leave en Fnday at noon lOUIS lor Sprrng Break W1ll pay usual 288-7403 and ask tor Wayne or L1nda LOOK OUT' All B1g East Ugly Team star From· Your SMC Fnends lEWARD PJease call Tem x6797 
Please call Mo at 7126 Barnett Clark Young JS commg Thursday!!! 
The Observer Wednesday, March 2, 1983-page 9 
So you think yo.u know baseball? 
The subject tor today, class, is "So You Think You Know Baseball'" 
One answer and one answer only. Neatness counts. First prize is a picture of the Dodgers front office refus­ing to sign free·agent]oe Morgan to a one-year contract. Second prize is the ball joe Morgan hit over the fence to knock the Dodgers out of the 1982 pennant. 
We will skip right over"How many years did Ty Cobb hit over .400?" and the trivia faithfuls like."Who played third base in the Tinker-to-Evers-to-Chance combina­tion?" We are concernedhere with the artistic aspects of the grand old game, not the mechanics. Ready? Places, everybody. 
Question: What is meant in baseball by the term "arbitration"? 
Answer: Arbitration is a device wh~reby a layman who has never seen a game of hardball, or at least not since the Philadelphia Athletics were in the league, is asked to dedde whether a .211 hitter gets a half-million dollars a year or three-quarters ofa million. He does not know the infield tly rule intimately, he probably thinks the St. Louis Cardinals are an ecclesiastical group con­vened to elect a Pope, and he thinks Vida Blue is a disease, but he has the power at one stroke ofthe pen to dole out more money than Babe Ruth made in his lifetime. He allows players to bring in videotapes ofone of their two sensational catches from the year before, but management cannot bring in a montage of the 811 infield pop outs or double-play balls he hit. 
Q: What does the "designated hitter" rule do? 
A: It turns a game whose principal charm has been its controversy and turns it into something as unpredict­able and monotonous as a violin recital at Carnegie Hall. It takes the second guess out of the game, which is like taking sex out of marriage. It takes the fun out of the game, the manager out of the game. It's like watching Farrah Fawcett play a nun, or going to a mystery where you know who did it. It turns the Hot Stove League into cold gruel. It's like taking the generals out of war, put­ting the game on automatic pilot. DulL 
Q: Explain "integrity ofthe game." 
A: Integrity is a tlexible set ofstandards by which you bar a national hero from making a living gladhanding tourists in a gambling parlor while you permit men who own and run gambling parlors (i.e., race tracks) to own and r.un hasehall teams and hasehall. too. It's called 
Jim Murray 

The Best of Jim Murray 
noblesse oblige, which means rich people can do any­thing they want but don't you try it. Or, why don't you just buy a racehorse, Mickey? 
Q: What is meant by "burnout"? 
A: 
A psychotic personality who finally falls over the edge gets to blame sports for his self-imposed neuroses. It's like a bank robber blaming the gun manufacturer. As Harry Truman said of burnout: "If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen." It's been my experience, burnout usually comes in abottle. 

Q: Explain the meaning ofdesire. 

A: 
Desire is such an important ingredient in the makeup of the athlete, it's the reason they have to have curfews. 


Q: Do you think seven-game divisional playoffs would cheapen the World Series? 
A: 
Not nearly so much as they would cheapen the regular season. 

Q: Not even ifthey have "wild-card" teams? 

A: 
The only way wild-card games would be fair would be for wild-card teams to have to play one-run or one­touchdown down to the teams that had a better season record. That way, they'd win the old-fashioned way. They'd earn it. 


Q: Will the Dodgers be the same without Steve Gar­vey? 
A: Will Steve Garvey be the same without the Dodgers? 
Q: 
Are ballplayers today better than ballplayers of40 years ago? 

A: Why, certainly. They're 40 years younger. 

Q: 
Who do you think should be named to carry out the duties ofcommissioner of baseball? 


A: How about Babe Ruth? 
Q: But Babe Ruth is dead? A:So? 
(c) 1983, Los Angeles T;mes 
• • • Belles 

continuedfrom page 12 
The Saint Mary's team flies to Casey. Arkansas this afternoon and will 
"All-American standings are based compete tomorrow, Friday and upon finishing places at nationals," Saturday mornings in the prelimi­says Trees. "If times from last year's nary events, and swim the final races meet are consistant with this year's, each night. we should have at least four girls The Belles will return home Sun­awarded all-American honors." day afternoon. 
• • . Irish 

."We already have thought our races from an individual freestyle events. standpoint," continues Bohdan. 
"Teamwise, this is the fastest "You have to go into each'race men­group we've had in four years," says tally prepared for it." co-captain Bohdan. "We have been Bohdan is proud of the record the working hard all year long, so we men swimmers have complied should perform well as a team. during the last four years. 
"We are looking to get revenge on "We are the winningest senior Bradley because they beat us in our class ever in Notre Dame swim­last meet, but we always finish ahead ming," he says, "and, needless to say, of them at Midwest." it has been a great experience." 
continuedfrom page 12 over 
Attention Freshmen &Sophomores 
Meet Your Major 
COTH 
COTH offers a comprehensive course of studies in theory & practice of contemporary media and theatre 
All students interested in film and video, media studies and mass communication are cordially invited to visit departmental facilities in the Loft, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Thursday, March 3 from 6:30pm to 8:00pm 
All students interested in theatre are cordially invited to visit departmental facilities in Room 1, Washington Hall, Thursday, March 3, from 6:30pm to 8:00pm 

Sophomore guard Dan Duff, coming offone ofhisfinest perfor­mancesofthe season againstDePaul, will combine withjohn Pax­son in the backcourt tomorrow night as Notre Dame attempts to strengthen its bid for the NCAA Tournament when it hosts Seton Hall. The 5-10 Lincoln, Ill. native scoredfour timely points down the stretch against the Blue Demons last Saturday, and was in­strumental in the Irish comeback. Duffalso assisted on two field 
.~ 

goals in his21 minutes ofplaying time. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
Corby's 
"Wednesday Night Special" 

International Festival of Beers Night 
$1.00 
Heineken light or dark 


....
Molson Labatts Ale or Beer St. Pauli Girl Moose head 

Go N D Basket bailers, Beat Seton Hall 
~,~umu~ru &Jruhmtn. 
~H£0LOGY~ 
mtE-t YOU" ma,JOlt-
TOniGHT. March 2 6:30·7:30pm 
Room 102 o·shag Refreshments 
For forthcninformation contact: Prof. Ellen Weaver or Prof. Eogene Gorski. C.S.C. 
j . 
Room 3300'Shag. 7811 
Mliilli/NTERHALL 

OPEN RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS 

Games must be played. and results reported to the NVAoff1ce, by 5 p.m Tuesday, Mar 9 No extens1ons Will be gtven due to the s1ze of the tournament 
Richardson (233-6031) v Bathon (8302) Schmit (3333) v Elshoff (1166) Berens ( 1579) v Alman (1 052) Murphy (6756) v Mucc1o (1152) H1gg1ns (1873) v Marks (3543) Carberry (239·5713) v. Rukav1na (1974) Welsh (6866) v Delahanty (3601) Record (277·5512) v Mclauglin (1052) Purk (1152) v P1nhe~ro (1684) lsrael(234·4234) v. Schachner (8760) 
Miller (239· 7323) v Trousddle (234-5415) Brown (3261) v Roberts (282·1029) Powers (8828) v Schubert i33t 21 Albo (234·5414) v Schunk (7816) Haling (277·1809) V HICkey (1004) Danco(1754)v Domus(3185) Almeida (7849) v Meakm (6863) Sweeney (3579) v Cleary (1857) 
Powers (277-1773) v Schmid (1294) LaChance (8179) v T1ce (232·8653) Brenton (3103) v Grotean (1222) Condon (3579) v Desaulmers (6864) Soha (8708) v Ponsar (7888) Shea (1817) v P1neda (288·3051) Marten (7829) v Roveda (1129) Staten (1208) v Sch1erl (3667) Ansan (277-0849) v Mornssey (1604) Allen ( 1506) v Panchal ( 1940) Cushmg (1173) v W1cke (1760) Allison (3255) v McCabe (233·6068) G1bson (233-9703) v Cmdnc (6703) Jakop1n (8170) v. Mclaughlin (272-1801) Williams (1028) v Simpson (3336) Bartkowiak (1479) v Carter (6664) 
Amesbury (1553) v. Fedorov1ch (277-0838) 
Those receiving byes: HaH1eld, Shank, Shubert, Ranger 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 

so~~s ~~~~ 
Q~\ ~~41~ 
20°/o OFF 
Good Mon-Thurs onlv 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student I.D. Offer not valid with any 

other Aurelio's special . discount or coupon valid at, S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
OR Ill'! 1' • -;~-\HUll
"'"""' 277 4950 "''"'"' 
,-­
-------------------------... -­

The Observer Wednesday, March 2, 1983-page 10 
1 Captain reflects 
'Yaz' begins final season with Sox 
l 
WINTER HAVEN, Fla. ( AP)-Carl Yastrzemski of the Boston Red Sox thought for barely a second and said, "Yeah, I remember rriy first spring training camp." 
Yastrzemski made it sound just like yesterday as he dug into his memory to recall the first time he donned a Boston uniform nearly one-quarter century ago. 
"In a way it seems like yesterday 
because it was a time I'll never for­
get," Captain Carl said in an inter­
view on the eve of his 24th training 
camp with the Red Sox. 

Signed after his freshman year at Notre Dame, Yastrzemski hit .377 as a second baseman and shortstop in his first pro season at Raleigh in I959. That earned him an invitation to the Boston training camp the next spring in Scottsdale, Ariz. 
"I was just a kid and, like most young players, a little cocky. But, gosh, was I nervous when I reported to the Red Sox," Yaz says. "It was something entirely new, meeting and dressing with Ted Williams and all." 
But Yastrzemski responded to the nervousness the same way he has handled pressure throughout his career. He soon began to burn up the Cactus League and it was ob­vious that a star was in the making. 
"I settled down quickly and had a heck ofa spring, probably as good as any since," he said. "I honestly thought I had made the ball club. Then, with three or four days to go, I got the shock of my life. 
"I was sent down to Minneapolis. Boy, was I ticked off. I thought I had done everything possible in preseason games and didn't like being cut one bit. 
"However, when I joined Min­neapolis (then in the American As­sociation), the manager cooled me. That was Gene Mauch, who I think had a big influence in shaping my career. 
"He told me that I was going to play left field. I had played the infield all my life and that was a shock, but 
Paxson snubbed in USBWA nominations 

not for long. He explained that Ted Williams was playing just one more year and the Red Sox wanted me to take over for him in left field." 
Yastrzemski broke into a grin when he recalled his reaction to the ­move. 
"I asked Gene how he wanted me to play left field," Yaz said. "He told me: 'any way you want. One-handed, two-handed, any way as long as you feel comfortable and can do the 
NEW YORK (AP) -Virginia's 
Ralph Sampson, Georgetown's Pat 
Ewing and Memphis State's Keith 
Lee are among those chosen as 
players of the year for the U.S. Bas­
ketball Writers Association all­
district college teams announced 
yesterday for the 1982-83 season. 
John Paxson of Notre Dame, which is included in District 4, was beaten out by Indiana's Randy Wit­tman in the voting. 
The players and coaches, respectively, from each of the na­tion's nine districts were: 
District 1 -John Pinone, Vil­lanova; Rollie Massimino, Villanova. 
District 2 Pat Ewing, Georgetown; Lou Carnesecca, St. John's. 
District 3A Keith Lee, 
Memphis State; Lee Hunt, Mississip­
pi. 
District 38 -Ralph Sampson, Virginia; Dean Smith, North Carolina. 
District 4 -Randy Wittman, In­diana; Eldon Miller, Ohio State. District 5 -Steve Stipanovich, Missouri; Norm Stewart, Missouri. District 6 -Clyde Drexler, Houston; Guy Lewis, Houston. 
District 7 -Sidney Green, Nevada-Las Vegas; Jerry Tarkanian, Nevada-Las Vegas. 
... 
Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If you think lt;~i;m tiKx.l is just spaghetti ;md pizza. we·ve got a mouth -opening experience waiting ti lr you every Wednesday night from S:OO -IIWl p.m. at '11w 1mking Glcl~s Restaur;mt in the South Bend \\aniott. 
lntroduling :\!;una ,\Iamott's -a lm1111 gus/11 array of ;mtip<L~ta. minestrone. tt.·ttul'irw. cacciatore. h~agne. JXL~ta ~md ti arr satk·es. dwest'. hreatb ~Uld tbserts. 
It s ,~I serwd up in a btin· ltali~m atmosphere ­dlt'ckered tahll'doths. a strolling musici~m ­the \\'(lrks. 
All mu GUl eat f(,r S(, lJ~ Children under I~ -S~ ll~ 
Reservations Appreciated 
.4 ril'edercil 

South Bt·nd/~orriott Hottl. 
12) N. St. Joseph St.. South Hend (219) 2.H-2000 
job."' (;iven that vote ofcontldence, Yaz eagerly accepted the challenge. 
While learning his new position, Yaz hit .:H9 and was ready to move up as Williams' successor. As a left fielder, he won seven Gold Gloves beii>re moving to tlrst base. 
Now, approaching 44, he will serve mostly as a designated hitter in his 23rd and final year as one of baseball's all-time great players. 
District 8 -Kenny Fields, UCLA; George Raveling, Washington State. 
The announcement was made by USBWA president Bob Hammel of the Bloomington (Ind.) Herald­Telephone. McDonald's Inc. is serv­ing as sponsor of this season's USBWA all-district and all-America teams. 
Big Ten hoops 

Indiana and company vie for title 
By The Associated Press 
The Big Ten finishing jinx which hit Iowa the last two seasons is hard at work against Indiana and it's going to take all of Bobby Knight's coach­ing genius if the Hoosiers hope to snare the conference basketball crown. 
Two weeks ago, most Big Ten coaches were resigned to the idea that Indiana was going to win the title following road viccories at Min­nesota and Wisconsin which gave the Hoosiers a 9-2 record. Even a one-point home loss to Iowa didn't deter the possibility. 
But after an Indiana triumph over Northwestern, disaster struck. The Hoosiers hit the road and lost at Michigan and then at Michigan State. But even more devastating, they also lost the services of Ted Kitchel, the team's leading scorer. 
Kitchel left the Michigan game af­ter five minutes and did not play against Michigan State. On Monday, Kitchel underwent surgery for the removal of a ruptured disc, ending his collegiate career. 
The Hoosiers now find them­selves with a 10-5 record, tied for the league lead with Ohio State. Purdue is one-half game behind the leaders at 9-5, and Minnesota and II­


The Notre Dame Student Union 
needs 
enthusiastic, hardworking, & talented people 
to assume next year's leadership roles ... Pick up applications at the N.D, Student Union's secretary's desk. QUESTIONS? Call Margaret at 239-7757 Deadline for applications is March 11. 
BusleQvesllbtQty circle Qt 12 noon returns after 
ahow. 
linois, both 8-6. trail the leaders by only one game in the loss column. 
Without Kitchel, the Hoosiers are going to have to revamp their philosophy on offense since they no longer have the big outside shooting threat. Even after having missed al­most two full games, Kitchel still leads the Big Ten in three-point shots, free throw percentage and is third in league scoring. 
Indiana does have one thing in its favor, and that is the Hoosiers play their last three games at home. But all three games are against conten­ders. Indiana . takes on Purdue tomorrow, Illinois Saturday and closes the regular, season against Ohio State March I2. Asweep would give the Hoosiers their third title in the last four years. 
Ohio State has the same schedule Indiana plays except the Buckeyes play the finale on the road at Indiana. The Buckeyes are home to Illinois tomouow and Purdue Saturday. 
Big Ten action this week begim tonight with Michigan at Wisconsin. Although the Wolverines are in ninth place in the conference, they are I 3-I I overall as is Michigan State. 
Villanova drubbed by Syracuse 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -Erich' Santifer stole the ball for Syracuse's last basket and twice connected on a pair of free thows in the last 79 seconds yesterday as the No. I8 Orangemen upset fourth-ranked Vil­lanova 79-70 in Big East Conference basketball. 
The victory ended a string of losses for Syracuse against its three biggest conference rivals -Vil­lanova, St. John's and Georgetown, which the Orange meet Monday in their final regular season contest. 
Syracuse went to 19-6 and 9-5 in the league and kept the Wildcats from clinching the title. Villanova, 2I-5, is 12-3 in the Big East. 
Villanova center John Pinone led all scorers with 23 points. Syracuse took a 63-55 lead with 
5:02 remaining when Santifer stole the ball from guard Gary McLain and drove for a slam dunk. 
S:mtifer led the Orange with 21 points. Tony Bruin had 19. Ed Pinckney contributed 17 points for Villanova. 


Ihe~rver========================================= 
~--~-....., 
I 
--1 
1 
l 
Aspirin Man 
~ 


~~4()l~~==========================W==ed=n=e=s=d=ay='=M=a=rc=h=2='=1=9=8=3===p=ag=e=l=l 
Bloom County 
a<!\Y. 1H€Rf'S AN01H£R 

5AYSOM£WIN6 ON£..mrs TIM€ eu11 
ffiOVOCAnVE: ... OC AIDTAl­
Ci-A55Y. NO CL..ICH£5 SHUT UP 1 

The Simon Side 

Berke Breathed 
AW 
Jeb Cashin 


. ~ . I 

• 0 o HEY ASPIRIH­
0 tl 1'\A~., LET'S I o o oo so~
G 
cR.OSS-C~tom. r'

suRf.! I'll 
SlUING.

G.f.T I"'Y 
Sf"UFf" 

The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 3/2/83 

·" 
...... 
q I 0 
Now .ITS 
N/?1

SNOWING I'IGAI • · · 

0 
ACROSS 28 One·man 1 Scissors stint activity 29 Certain 5 Ornamental stock cert. 
tag 32 M. Coty 10 Dread 33 Eucharist 14 A Chaplin adjunct 15 Disposed 34 Golf ball 16 Dynamic position 
prefix 35 Middle of 17 Beginning a kind of a kind 39 Blind 20 Like some impulse 
arguments 40 Rotates 21 Fashion 41 Zaragoza's 22 Algerian river 
city 42 Mal de ­23 River in 43 Carry Maine 44 Cheap 25 Foolish whiskey utterance 46 Facility 
Tuesday's Solution 
3/2183 


Campus 
•2 
-5 p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture/ Demonstration, "Personal Office Systems -The New Generation," John Couch, CCE Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Gangliosides as Biological Receptors for Sendai Virus," Dr. Mary Ann K. Markwell, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Applications to Chemistry and Biology," Prof Gerhard L. Closs, 123 NSH 

•6:30 
p.m. -Circle K Club Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•6:30 
p.m. -Amnesty International Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
and 10:15 p.m. ~ Film, "The Deer Hunter," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Irish Ran­gers, n 

•7 
and 9 p.m. -Film Series, "1, Claudius," ETS Theatre 

•7:30 
p.m. -Art Lecture, Bruce Davidson, An­nenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Discussion, "A Conversation with Richard Steele, South African Conscientious Ob­jector," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Pax Christi, 

•8 
p.m. -Boston Symphony Orchestra, WSND-FM 88.9 

•8:15 
p.m.-Lecture, "Natural Family Planning: Not Another Means of Contraception," Ms. Janet Bettcher, 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall 


T.V. Tonight 
7:30p.m.  16  
22  
28  
34  
8p.m.  16  
22  
28  
34  
9p.m.  16  
22  
28  
lOp-m.  28  


The Far Side 
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 

"Whoa! ... That CAN'T be right!" 
All in the Family Family Feud 
Tic Tac Dough 
Straight Talk Real People Seven Brides for Seven Brothers Tales ofthe Gold Monkey Great Performances Bob Hope's Road to Hollywood CBS Wednesday Night Movie: "Missing Pieces" The Fall Guy Dynasty 
-
-
47 Spade and 
Levene 48 That Is 51 Wavering 55 End of a 
kind 58-majeste 59 Highhome 60 Nick's dog 61 Former 
British PM 62 Noted golfer 63 Letter opener 
DOWN 1 London 
locale 2 "High-" 3 Co:1cerning 4 Spring 
festival 5 Footless 6 Youthful 7 Stentorian 8 Letter 
wrap: abbr. 
9 Land: abbr. 10 Ipso­11 Weird 12 Russian sea 13 Ceremonial 
garment 18 Foreboding 19 Date 23 Living room 
pieces 24 Pub orders 
25 Reverie 26 Pierre's income 27 Between: 
pret 28 Lyon's river 
29 Annapolis 
student 30 Ardent 31 Moll Flan­
ders author 33 Draft 36 Condition 37 Bodyof 
poetry 38 Sleeping 
f(amework 44 Grated 45 A Ludwig 46 Krupp works 
area 47 Cuttlefish 
ink 48 Laidoff 49 Feat so Being: Lat 51 Tortoise 
competitor 52 Nave's neighbor 53 Talbot of 
movies 54 Sign of sorrow 
56 Ethiopian prince 57 Wallet item 

Wednesday, March 2, 1983-page 12
S_~orts 

Notre Dame goaltender Bob McNamara, who gave up only two goals last weekend against Illinois-Chicago, hopes to continue his fine play 
ByJUDY MCNAMARA 
Sports Writer 

A group of 16 swimmers and their coach left Saint Mary's this morning destined for Ouachita Baptist Uni­versity in Arkadelphia, Ark. 
Where is Arkadelphia, you ask? Is that what the city of brotherly love would have been called if dis­covered by Noah? 
No, wrong again. Arkadelphia is the site ofthe 1983 NAIA Swimming and Diving Chanpionships. 
The trip to Arkansas is a .first in a couple of ways for the swimmers from Saint Mary's. For starters, an entire varsity squad has never before qualified for the national meet in swimming. In the past, individuals have qualified but have had to forgo the opportunity to compete because of the expense. Secondly, Saint Mary's has a chance of finishing in the top ten in the country out of the over 600 teams that will be compet­ing in the championships. 
"I told the team that we were shooting for fourth place," says Coach Scott Trees. "Ifthe times that were swam last year were the exact same this year we would have gotten fourth place." 

People, places, and things 
A quick update on who's coming and who's going ­who's in and who's out: 
Skip Desjardin 
Mike Johnston, who kicked his way into the Notre ~ports Editor Emeritus Dame football record books, may get to add to those .;....----------------­records. Johnston, a senior with another year of 
eligibility to his credit, told a New York newspaper that iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii'iiiiiiiiii;i;iiiiiii 
he's planning to come back next season. 
"Coach Faust offerred me a scholarship, and I hope to be back," said Johnston, whose return·rides on whether or not he is accepted into graduate school here to pursue a degree in chemical engineering. 
Reports from those in the know say that Notre Dame 
looks like the top contender in the race to sign high 
school basketball superstar David Popson of Pennsylva­
nia. Popson told an assistant coach at North Carolina 
that he is "90 percent sure" he'll be coming to Notre 
Dame. 

Ifthe 6-10 center does indeed enroll here, he will be 
the biggest blue-chipper Digger Phelps has signed since 
Adrian Dantley. No one -not Tripucka or Paxson or 
Kempton -entered college with more lavish praise 
from basketball watchers than Popson. He is among the 
top two or three high school players in every survey. 
Phelps has already signed the leading rebounder in the history of Pennsylvania prep basketball (John Bowen) and a starting guard from Indiana's No. 3· ranked high school team, Indianapolis Cathedral (Scott Hicks, a former teammate ofIrish center Ken Barlow). 
The USFL opens this weekerid, and several former Notre Dame players are on rosters around the league. PunterJoe Restic '79 is with the Boston Breakers, wide receiver Kris Haines '79 has hooked on with the Los Angeles Express, and quarterback Greg Knafelc '79 is playing wide receiver for the Birmingham Stallions. 
The biggest Irish delegation is with George Allen in 
Chicago, however. Running back Jim Stone '80 and 
defensive back Luther Bradley '77 join quarterback Tim 
Koegel '82 on the Blitz roster. Koegel, by the way, is 
listed as the No. 2 signal-caller behind veteran Greg 
Landry. 

Look for a Sports Illustrated feature on John and Jim Paxson soon. The Irish guard traveled to Cleveland last week for a photo session with his older brother. Jim wore his Portland Trail Blazer uniform, and John sported his matching No. 4. 
Though schedules are not yet complete, it looks as though DePaul's Ray Meyer will coach his final regular season game here next season. Meyer, who was captain of the Irish team in his undergraduate days here in the late 1930's, will likely wrap up his 42nd season under the South Dome ofthe ACC. Ofcourse, he will continue. to· coach the Demons should they make the NCAA tournament next year. 
Tomorrow night's game with Seton Hall will be a 
· match-up between a coach and his former player. In Digger Phelps' one season at Fordham (when he led the Rams to a 26-3 record) he coached a player by the name of P.). Carlesimo. Carlesimo was the youngest major college assistant in the country when he began his coaching career at his alma mater. His first head coach­ing job came at age 26, when he turned the program at Wagner College from a 3-21 disgrace to a 21-7 NIT par­ticipant in just three seasons. 
Looking to attend an NCAA tournament game over break? OK, here are the sites: EAST -Hartford, Conn. and Greensboro, N.C. MIDEAST -Tampa, Fla. and Evansville, Ind. MIDWEST -Houston, Tex. and Louis­ville, Ky. WEST -Boise, Idaho and Corvallis, Ore. 
If you don't mind missing classes, the regional finals will be held in Syracuse, Knoxville, Kansas City and Og­den, Utah. 
And it'll be East vs. West and Mideast vs. Midwest in Albuquerque on April 2nd, with the championship on Monday the 4th. 
Men's swimming team prepares for regionals 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 

Having completed its regular season dual meet schedule, the Notre Dame men's swimming team is looking forward to the Midwest Region Invitationals. 
The competition, held in Chicago, will begin tomorrow and concludes Saturday. 
After closing out its dual meet season ten days ago, the Irish have been hard at work preparing for this event in which they last year finished third. 
The Midwest Invitational is the 
biggest meet of the season for the 
Irish swimmers. 

"We've been doing a lot of mental preparation," says senior Lou Bowersox, "because the Midwest In­vitational is always a big meet. 
"We will definitely be ready. We are further along in our progress than last year." 
Irish coach Dennis Stark is pleased with the progress he has seen during 
First national meet 
SMC swimmers head for championship 
'"Nationals' has been the word for us all season long," adds senior Nancy Lorinizini, "This is the final culmination ofall the work the team 
has done this season. Personally, I would like to place well in my 
• events since this is my last swim meet." 
The squad from Saint Mary's is sporting four prospective all­Americans this season -three seniors (Lorinzini, Angie Michielut­ti, Lucy Hanahan) and junior Gail 
see BELLES, page 9 

the course of the year. Stark stresses · the importance ofpeaking at the end 
of the season. 

"The team is in a good position to 
do well in this meet," says Stark. 
"Times have been dropping lately, 
and I suspect this competition will 
enable some ofour individuals to get 
their best times of the year. 

"There have been a number of 
consistent performers on the team 
this season, and it would be difficult 
to single one or two our. I think that 
we will put forth a true.team effort at 
the Midwest." 

Junior AI Harding, entered in the 
middle distance freestyle events, has . 
been one of the top performers for 
the Irish this season. .\teanwhile Tim 
Bohdan will be competing in the 
backstroke and long freestyle races. 

Freshman Blaise Harding has been 
the leading swimmer for the Irish in 
the breaststroke and the individual 
medley events. 

"There is going to be a lot ofgood 
swimmers there," Harding says. 
"Western Kentucky will probably be 
the toughest team. I hope I can finish 
in the top three in my events." 

Senior co-captain Paul McGowan 
will compete in the diving events, 
having held the position of top 
Notre Dame diver for the last three 
years. 

The Irish relay teams also expect 
to do well. Glenn Battle, Greg Bob­
dan, Dan Carey and AI Harding com­
prise the Irish entry in the 400-yard 
freestyle relay, probably Notre 
Dame's best relay event. 

Dan Flynn and Brian Casey will 
lead Notre Dame in the butterfly 
races. Flynn and Casey have been 
pushing each other as of late, and 
thus are dropping their times. 

Gary Severyn and Greg Bohdan 
will carry the load at the Midwest In­
vitational for the Irish in the shorter 
see IRISH, page 9 

Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps celebratesjohn Pax­son's game-~ying basket with :06 left in the DePaul game, but also could very well be exulting at the possible arrival of prep star David Papson, who is reportedly "90 percent sure" that he is com­ing to Notre Dame. See Skip Desjardin at left. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 




