esc series -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 43 the independent ~ludell! new~p;tpcr ~lT\ ing not fl dame and .~ailll man··, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2. 19H3 
House V()•te approves production of first tvventy-one MX missiles 
Associated Press nization program by turning aside, million in advance-procurement 
247-175, an effort by Addabbo to items for the B-1 from the bill and 
WASHINGTON The hotly prevent the Air Force from entering thus prevent the Air Force from debated MX missile program into multi-year contracts for B-1 B being able to commit itselfto bomb­overcame another challenge vestee­bombers. er purchases several years in ad­day as the House voted 217-.W8 to It was another indication that the vance. approve S2.1 billion to produce the long-debated and once-canceled Addabbo, chairman of the House first 21 of the intercontinental program will continue at full scale. defense appropriations subcommit­nuclear weapons. In the MX debate, Rep. Albert tee, said the B-1 B was not ready for 
After an hour-long debate in Gore, D-Tenn., a leader of moderate advance procurement because the which MX advocates said the Reagan Democrats who have been key first plane will not fly for a year and administration has made sine<~re ef­players in negotiations with the ad­operational testing will not be com­forts in arms control and opponents ministration, ticked off I 5 conces­pleted until after that. remained deeply skeptical, mem­sions he said the White House made By approving multi-year spend­bers defeated an amendment by in its arms-control posture in return ing, he argued, "Congress will be Rep. Joseph P. Addabbo, D-1\i.Y., to for support for the MX. locked into this program and will strip the production money from a "The president so far has lived up lose fiscal control" over it. 
5247 billion defense spending bill. to his end ofthis unprecedented bar­But Rep. Jack Edwards, R-Ala., and 
The vote was the closest call that gain, and the Congress must live up other advocates replied that a the program has had this year in the to its end," Gore said. Reagan administration pledge to House. Members had approved But opponents reiterated their hold the total cost of the 100-plane production by a 13-vote margin in a view that the giant, I0-warhead B-1 B program to S20. 5 billion in military authorization bill in july and missiles are dangerous to the 1981 dollars was contingent on ap­had freed impounded money for the nuclear balance and that the nation's proval ofthe multi-year feature. project by 53 votes in April. treasury could not afford the ul­"If you give them that excuse to 
Earlier in the afternoon, the ad­timate S27. 5 billion cost for 100 MX get out from under that blanket, I 
ministration chalked up another "Peacekeepers." can't tell you how much the B-1 
major gain in its strategic moder-Addabbo wanted to strip 1!438.7 would cost," Edwards said. 

'Picture ltunt' discussed at HPC 
ByJANE KRAVCIK. The Observer and the winning sec­the party presently out ofoffice, this News Staff tion will receive S100 and a party year a Democrat will be chosen. with all you can eat pizza and Prevoznik asked that HPC "start 
Details for the first annual crazy drinks." pushing the event now," adding that 
picture hunt were given last night at King is optimistic about the event. "in the past, the convention was Carrollfreshman Dan Mischkejuggles his social life, academics 
the Hall Presidents Council meeting "This is a testing ground -if the pretty good at picking candidates. and athletics at last night's talent shou· in the Engineering 
at Pasqt.:erilla East. event goes over here, it will be done Lately, they haven't been as good." Auditorium. The talentshow waspart ofthe Fall Festir•al activities. 
According to Neil King, photog­in the Big Ten schools next year," he Prevoznik hopes that this year's con­Flannerfreshman Mark Vfeimholtjuggled along with Mischke. 
rapher and organizer of the event, said. vention will reverse this trend. 
each hall section will be allcwed to Plans for the mock convention to The council also discussed ideas 
enter one picture of its rt·sidents be held this spring were outlined by for possible projects this year. 
looking as crazy as possible. Peggy Prevoznik, student body vice­Greg Crawford, president of 

Accidents in invasion
The pictures will then be posted president. The mock convention is a Pangborn Hall, suggested that the in LaFortune Student Center. four-day event which mimics the parking situation be considered. Par­According to King, "The winner will political party convention and ticularly, he wondered if South be decided by a penny vote, with the chooses a nominee for president in Quad dorms, such as Pangborn, 

cause U.S. casualties 
proceeds going to United Way. The the upcoming presidental election. 
winning picture will be printed in Because it chooses a candidate for see HPC, page 3 Associated Press said several Army Rangers were 
killed and several others wounded 
BRIDGETOWN, Barbados -The when two l·.s. helicopters collided 
Red Cross negotiated with U. t S. and four Navy Seals in a commando 
t(>rces in Grenada yesterday over unit drowned in a pre-invasion acci­

Physicia11:'We are at a crossroads' 
how to evacuate 50 wounded and ill dent. Cuban prisoners, while hundreds of The Pentagon says l H U.S. ser­Marines stormed a nearby island in a vicemen have been killed, H6

By TIMOTHY GIANOTII I couldn't keep practicing medicine, legislative process. Return this fruitless hunt for resisters. wounded and one missing since the
News Staff dealing with a few lives when the democracy to a government of the 
The Pentagon said the Marines invasion. It has listed about 100whole""WOrld is at stake." people, for the people, by the found only a few local residents on Cuban casualties without specifyingDr. Helen Caldicott, president of She also assured her audience that people. You own Washington. You the Grenadine island of Carriacou, dead and wounded.

the Physicians for Social Respon­something can indeed be done. have the power. "We are married 20 miles north of Grena t da, and Catherine Peduzzi, a Red Crosssibility, addressed a packed library Stressing education and above all, withdrew later in the day. Last week representative, said a Swissair jetauditorium last night with a action, Caldicott brought hope into to the Russians. We either live with or with an loaned to the Red Cross was waiting
ham radio operators in the Carib­presentation on the nuclear arms the overall picture. them die them -in bean said Cuban and Grenadian hol­on Barbados for clearance from the

issue. She delivered her :nessage "Get this country to vote. Know hour," she said. "The whole world is douts had fled to Carriacou to li.S. military command to go intodirectly, saying that we have little your legislators. Know the watching you." 
escape the invading Americans. Grenada. She said the Red Crosstime for talk about nuclear war. 

In the Grenadian capital of St. hoped to fly .35 wounded and I 5 ill 

"We are at a spiritual crossroads George's, shoppers crowded Cuban prisoners home today.
right now," she said, "and unless we markets returning to normal despite However, a high-ranking l l.S.
make the decision to grow up, we the week-old invasion, schools were military officer, interviewed on theare going to die." 
open for a second day and telephone condition that he not be identified

Holding up a Parade Magazine 
workers toiled to restore normal by name, said the military command cover highlighting the pockmarks service. had denied the Red Cross request.

left by nuclear testing and detona­
Work crews pressed the search Instead, he said, the command wantstion, she made her chief point: "We for people killed when U.S. the Swissair jet to wait in Barbadosjust can't fight anymore." 

warplanes bombed a mental hospital and board the prisoners after theHaldicott, a former professor at last week, killing as many as 20 military ferries the Cubans in.

the Harvard Medical School, a patients. The United States has saidpediatrician deeply involwd with the bombing was accidental. Neither the officer nor Peduzzicystic fibrosis clinics and c:1ldren's It was one of several accidents knew when the estimated 600hospitals both in the U.S. and in her reported in the Grenada invasion. Cuban prisoners would departown country, Australia, the founder 
Wounded army troops brought to Grenada.

of Action for Nuclear Disar:nament Walter Reed Medical Center inand a mother of three, is <t strong Washington have said 19 comrades Peduzzi said four Red Cross offi­
believer in her peace crus~de. Set­were wounded because a U.S. plane cials were in Grenada Tue~day
ting her career on a back burner, she inadvertently bombed their position negotiating the logistics with
now devotes he• energies to educat­instead ofan enemy target. American commanders. She said the
ing the world concerning the facts of The Washing,on Post, quoting Red Cross also wanted to arrange for
nuclear war. 
Pentagon sources it did not identify, the removal ofCuban dead.

She explained, "In all con>cience, 




--------------------------------------------------------------------------~---~--­
The Observer 

ln. Brief 
Cars parked in Cl or Dl must he moved hyHa.m. tomorrow so portable lighting and television platforms may be in­~talled. ~aid <;knn "I"t-rry. director ofsecurity, yestcrday. Areas south of thest· lots will be available for student parking until Ha.m. Satur­day. Students with C I or DI part-ing dn·als may park in other stu­dent lots during the weekend. The change in th<: time of th<: Pittsburgh game (from I :30 to 3:4S p.m.) has rnadc other this and other c:hangt·s nt·cc:ssary at the I :niv<:rsit}'· The South Dining Hall will rt·main open until H:50 p.m.. a departur<: from the usual 7 p.m. dosing hour. -The Obsert,er 
The Saint Mary's Board of Regents ap­
proved a r<:solution which names tht· firm of Slovik, Mathre, Sathrum, Quanhec.:k as the architects for th<: renovation of the Sdt·rKe Building. The lkg<:nts, who met O<.'t. 20-21. also approv<:d a S5. c; million housing loan at a 3 percent interest rate to finance renovations in Holy Cross and LeMans Hall. The hoard allocated the moncy to rcplan: the show<:rs that arc in poor condition in Holy Cross and to install emt·rgency lighting in the hall. Storm windows will ht· installcd in I.e:Mans with th<: money. R<:placing both t:levators in l.cMans is also hein)o\ c.:onsidcred. The campus construction began last summer in ord<:r to mc.:ct firc and safety rc.:gulations in the dorms. The minutes of the.: regents' meeting will not be available for ap­proximatdy two wcc:ks. -Th(• Obsertlf!r 
i\tnerica's dilld.rerlarc g<:tting hdp "in the bank to keep their minds free of drugs" because parents and other adults finally arc doing something about it, Presilknt Reagan said yester­day. "No longn do we think of drugs as a harmless phase of adoles­c..-ent-e." the prt·sident said. "No longc.:r do we think ofso-called hard drugs as had and ~o-calkd soft drugs as ht:ing acccptahle. Research tdls us thcrt· art· no such catcgorks." Rcagan spoke to about 12S pt·opk gathcrnl in the East Room of tlw Whitc llousc to watc.:h him :-.ign a proclamation c.ksignating the period of Nov. 2 through Nov. 9 as National Drug Ab,rst· J:d,Kation W.:ek. -AP 
"M"lSS L"ll"tan" Carter' moth<:r of fornwr Prcsident
1 jimmy Cart<:r, was buri<:d y<:st<:rday in a simple: six-minute <.Trt·mon}' in tht· lkld.~ of her homdand under a hot G<:orgia sun. l'rt·st·nt at the gravesidt· along with the 39th prt:sidcnt wer<: former White Houst· aidcs llamilton Jordan, jack Watson and Jody Powell, li1rmer budget dirtTtor llat I.;Jilce, former linit<:d Nations Ambas­sador Andrew Young ami about ~00 otht-r guests. inc.:luding ABC Whitt· lloust· u1rr<.·spomknt Sam Donaldson, ABC's David Hartman and country music' star Tom T. IIall. Thc Rev. Fn·d Collins said Mrs. Cartl'f, wht; died Sunday at age H'i ofcanct·r, wanted the c<:remonics "brid' and simpk." Collins praisl'll Mrs. Cartcr as "a fricnd of the 
great and pownful. hut her heart was with th<: weak and nel'lly." She: "Jin·d an extraordinary lift-." ani.! was "coumgcous in life and death." -AP 
Of Interest 
President ofa Chicago consultingagenc.:r 
1<1r inn·ntive marketing. J~rmt·~ Fddm<tn. will be the principal spt·akt·r tomorro\\ at a m<.Tting of the Busint·ss Partners of Notre Dame·., (:ollq.w of Bu,,iness Administration. lie will discuss "Staying Alw;rd of the (ianw" at a .L~O p.m. st·ssion in the llayes-Healy auditorium. At an earlier ~t·~~ion. thrt·t· proti:ssors of llnanc.:t: and hu~int·~~ t·nmomit·~ at Notre Dame will present thl'ir vicws on the t·conomv in tht· month~ ahead. Thcy art· Edward Truhac. licrht·rt 'oim and (.Alan (iarnt·r. -The Ohserr•c•r 
The new phone directories han-arrived and 
\\ill ht· dl'livernl to till' rooms of all on-campus rt·sidnlls today or tomor-row. (life..·ampus swdt·nts may pick up copit-s of the dircctory at tht· ( >mhutbman inli>rmation bar. I st floor l.a Fortunt·. from I I 
a.m. 10 c; p.m. toda~ ami tomorrow. There i.., a limit ofone directory per rc~idt'lll't'. -Tbe Ohsert'l'r 
Notre Dame's College Bowlprogram i~having 
.111 organintional llltTting tonight in Hoom 202 of the Center ti1r Continuing hlucltit~n ;u C>:50 p.m. Dr. Peter Lombardo. moderator. will explain the rult-~ of I he game and answer any qut·stions ahoul the .Ktivitl· The captains oftlro~c tt·ams who have ;tlreadr signed up are urgnl io alll·nd or semi a reprt·scntativt·. Anyone dst· int<:r<:stt·d in playing ~hould abo attl'lul -Tbe 0/Jsen·er 

Weather 
Chance of rain thi~ morning. which shoulu c.:I<:ar up around noon ."'kin will ht· cloud1· thi.~ alkrrroon. leading to more: rain in till' late afternoon Jnd l'\ ening. Tht· high today will be SI. 
AI' 
Wednesday, November 2, 1983 -page 2 


Numbers vs. values 
"Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, must be all ofthis and something more ...its concern touches the moral as well as intellectual dimension of all the questions it asks itselfand its students . .." 
-Father Thc:odorc: Ht:sburgh, University president 
This quote, from the economics d<:partmem brochure, highlights the dcpartment's philosophy sinc.:c: it was restructured several years ago undc:r chairman Charles E. Wilber. 
"Most economics departments pride themselves on being value-neutral or pure: scientists. We feel this is impossible. The value issues must be up front. This is particularly appropriate at a Catholic university. which places an <:mphasis on social justice," said Wilber, who is serving the last year ofhis third term as chairman. 
This c:mphasis on values becomes more unique, and more interesting, in light ofthe increasing popularity of statistic-bas<:d c:conomc:trics among economics dc:part­
department. 
ments across the: country. 
It is a question of the 
Somc argue there are 
humanistic orientation of 
problems in applying value 
economics. Is it possible to 
oriented theories, par· 
morals while 
ticularly regarding the method of integrating social justic<: into a viable economic theory. 
The issue of social justice is an implicit one because al­though statistics may appear value-fre<:, thcre are valuc ao;sumptions in data and the way it is intcrprc:ted. 
The 'pure sckntists' ignore this reality, hut they raise th<: valid and as yet un­answ<:r<:d question, ·How docs one intc:grate frec:dom, sdf-cstc:c:m and lifc:­sustcnancc into cc.:onomic.: theory?' 
Self-est<:cm and Jifc:-sustenance and frc:edom arc: the goals that an <:c<momy should seek to accomplish, according to Wilber and Professor Kenneth jameson. An economy should provid<: the majority of citizens with the opportunity of self fulfillment within the cul­tural framc:work. It should also attt:mpt to provide necessary criteria for survival, in terms of shelter and nutritional requirc:ments. Finally, th<: masses should en­joy basic: human rights. 
It's not an <:asy qucstion to answer, and a polic.:y maker will encounter difficulties convincing people to <:mploy c.:oncc:pts not yet in<.·orporatc:d into a tried and popular framework. 
Yet. the idc:a ofc:mploying value-based c.:onc.:cpts is a good one: and one that merits considcration hy an expanding intellectual c:xpertise. Notr<: Dame, as a Catholic institution, should continu<: to ignore critics of value-based c:conomics and b<:comt: a vanguard ofthese 
The_Obseryer 
r----------------~
I INFLATION / I I GOTYOUI II BLOOD II BOILING? I 

We can help relieve II some of that pressure! I I HOW?we will pay you I I up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I 
1 It'' oaoy. Joot oome to to 001 oew mOdoto fadllly tela< to oomfy ~ reclining chairs while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA.
1 

I You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for yourlII second donation within the same week...AND we will give you aI free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. I 
I PLUS I I We Will Give You an Additional I ~ $4 If you bring this ad with you. I
The Obaerver IUSPS 598 920) rs published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. 
'r t;ffer £1/J:::·:::c~~:r::~::::: on(v!) ~~ 
eKcepl dunng eKam and vacation penods The Obaerver IS published 
1

1 234·601 0 or come by515 Lincolnway West
by the students of N0tre Dame and Sa1nl Mary s College Subscrrptrons may be purchased tor $25 per year 
I Bring your I.D. I 
1$15 per semester) by wnltng The Obaerver P 0 Box 0. Notre 
I IAVMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS I 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others I
The Obaerver IS a member of The A..oclaled Pre... All 
I Tues and Sat 8am-5pm I 
reproduction nghts are reserved. 
I Wed and Fri !:lam·5pm ..1 
Jeffrey Choppin 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Wednes 
ideas. 

This would be beneficial in two ways for the depart­ment and the University. In accordance with the resources available: to it. the: department trimmed its main focus to three areas. The first of these is develop­ment economics. This area is the foundation of the department's social justice oriencation and is also an area that is not usually emphasized by economic depart­ments. This lends a unique sense of attraction to the 
ignore 

propogating a policy that af­
fects millions of people, 
both domestically and 
abroad? One cannot deny 
the reality of ten million un­
employed people and the 
social tensions and degrada­
tion ofquality oflife: they ex­
perience. When one ranks 
low inflation over quality of 
life for ten million pc:ople, 
what arc: the moral implica­
tions? Where should the em­
phasis be? 

Should the economy's 
role he to promote an at­
mosphert: encouraging busi­ness activity or to provide for the wclfar<: ofall citizens? This is not a question of capitalism or socialism, but a question ofjustic.:e. 
While some argue that anyone who wants to can 'mak<: it' in the Unitc:d States, the fact remains that mem­bers of the lowest economic sc:c.:tor of society have far less control over their welfare than do those in the: hig­hest sec.:tor. In any society, the benefits do not trickle down that far, and provisions should be madt: to ac­count for this inc:quity. 
These: are challenging concepts especially ap­propriate: at Notre Dame: because of their Christian aspect. The University's "concern touches the moral as well a~ intdlcctual dim<:nsions of all the: questions it asks itself and its students." 
The orientation oftht: department challenges the stu­dent to search for values hc:hind the thcoric:s; it also challenges the 'pure scientists' and policy makers to evaluate the implications of their actions and policies. 

The Obsenrer Wednesday, November 2, 1983-page 3 



Center f()r Social Concerns series on peace continues 
ByPATSAIN 
Senior StaffReporter 
A "Fortnight of Education on Global Issues" will continue tonight with the film "Say Amen, Some­body," at 7 p.m. in the Cente for So­cial Concerns. 
The series of presentations on 
peace began yesterday with~-talk on 
"Therapy in the Nuclear Age" by Helen Caldicott, an internationally­known speaker on the medical dan­gers ofnuclear energy. 
The series is part of a national "Week of Education," sponsored by the Union ofConcerned Scientists. 
"In past years, the UCS has just had a 'November 11th Convocation' on nuclear issues," said Sharon Murphy, peace opportunities director at the Center for Social Concerns. The UCS 
What Does the Student Union Record Store Have in StorEJ for Me 
CHEAPER PRICES ... Suvf24-Jl-fflislpr~m! MOST CURRENTSINGLES-!'6.Jotcom"""'"' 
JS.99/istJ 
CUT-OUTS...sz.98-!5.98 GREATSELECTION... Sprin~me~. fog•lber,. s,.v.,, 
NiC'ks, Christopher Cross, Moudy Blues. Pot Benatar, Journey and 
many, many more . . 
ALSO.,. m:ordedundblunk topesovu1able. 
CONVENIENCE. .. Th• NDSU R.cord Slvff is I<K"Uifd 
on the Mom F•oor ofLaFortune. 
PIUS· ordered albums 1okr on(v one Wt"t'd lo urri~·e.' 



The Notre Dame Credit Union and Seven Seas Travel Invite You To ... Frankenmuth 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1983 
This tour includes: 
• 
Round trip mot•lrcoach transportation 

• 
A general escorted tour of Frankenmuth 

• 
Luncheon at th•~ Frankenmuth Bavarian Inn 

• 
A visit to the St. Julian's Winery 

• 
Tour Bronner's Christmas Wonderland 

• 
Free time to shop 


COST PER PERSON: $36.00 For tour registration please contact Jackie Saros at 239-6611. 
r---------------~clip & save---------------, I 
I 
!I Perfect F'or Tai/gaters! 
PAFlTY SUBS 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses & Choice of Toppings 
3  feet  serves  20·25 ... $30.00  
4  feet  serves  25·30 ... $37 .50  
5  feet  serves  30·35 ... $45.00  
I  6  feet  serves  35·40 ... $50.00  


ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS ~l SALADS 
I 

the 



[)ELI
1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 
currently has a bill before Congress to deciare the week ofNov. 5 -I2 a national "Week of Education." with an emphasis on space weapons. 
Notre Dame is participating with a "Fortnight of Education on Global Issues" which will run until Nov. I I. "We broadened the theme of the week to include other issues in addi­tion to the arms race, but there is still a focus on nuclear problems," said Murphy. 
A talk by Henri Nouwen, internationally-known Harvard Divinity Professor, will highlight the series. His talk, "A Call to Peacemak· ing," will deal with an understanding of spirituality that includes political action, in an interest and concern for society and will take place Thursday Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. in the library auditorium. It is co-sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and the Student Union Academic Coun· cil. 
The film "Say Amen Somebody," I2:30 p.m.. Saturday. Nov. 5 at H p.m., and Thursday. Nov. 10 at . 4:30 p.m. 
"If You Love This Planet," a con­troversial Canadian film dealing with the threat of nuclear weapons, will be shown Sunday, Nov. 6 at H 
p.m. in the Center for Social Con­cerns. "The film was purchased at the request of Father Hesburgh." said Murphy. It deals with the dan­gers ofthe nuclear arms race. 
Michael Francis, chairman of the government department, will speak on the "History of the Arms Race, or 'How That Silo Came to be in Our Backyard,"' on Monday. Nov. 7 at H 
p.m. The talk will deal with "generally, what we know about arms races, their causes, and the stability of the international system in an arms race," said Francis. His talk is sponsored by the Ground Zero Club. 
"The Life of Dietric)l Bonhodfer," a biographical film about the Protes­tant theologian and his l·xperiences in a concentration camp during World War 11, will be shown in the Center for Social Concerns on Tues­day. Nov. H at 7:30 p.m. and is sponsored by Pax Christi. 
A Veterans Day Mass celebrated by Father Theodore Hesburgh. llni­versity president at Sacred llt:art Church will conclude the "Fortnight of Education." The Mass will be at 5 p.m., and all ofthe.,.'peace-oriented" groups will participate, said Murphy. The offertory will feature a repre­sentative of each of the groups giving a gift symbolic of the group's activity, said Murphy. 
"It is fitting on a day we honor the war's day, that we talk ofpeace." said Murphy. 
to be shown tonight and tomorrow night, is about the life of the black 
Fest has 'dress' day
gospel singer Willie Mae Fort Smith. The film features a gospel music ex­travaganza, and is sponsored by the 
ByJIM STONE Black Studies Program. 
News Staff 
Robert Bowman will speak on the nuclear arms race tomorrow at 7 
Notre Dame's first annual Fall Fes· 
p.m. in the library auditorium. 
tival moves into its third day today "Space Weapons -The Next 
with a full slate ofevents, in addition Arms Race," a UCS slideshow 
to a week-long banner contest and presentation, dealing directly with 
traditional homecoming activities the national "Week of Education" 
scheduled for the week's close. theme. will be shown in the Center Today is 'Dress for Success Day." for Social Concerns tomorrow at and includes a 3-mik Fun Run and a 
BIOLOGICAL/PHYSICAL SCIENCES ... 
You're Needed All Over the World. 
Ask Peace Corps volunteers why rhey ore using their Science major. minor, or oprirude in heolrh clinics and classrooms in Malaysia. Why do !hey use !hem in fish pond culrure projects and experimental forms in Western 5omoo? They'll tell you !heir ingenuiry and flexibiliry ore as important as !heir degrees. Ask !hem why Peace Corps is rhe roughest job you'll ever love. 
Peace Corps Reps on Campus ~ov. 8, 9, &10. Interested Seniors sign up for interview in the Placement Office 



PEACE CORPS 
Interested in Taking a Class in Ballroom Dancing? 
Wednesday, November 2nd, will be the first lesson ofa five week ballroom dance class that will be held on Saint Mary's Campus in the REGINA HALL 
BASEMENT from 6:30-8:00 p.m. 
This class will be taught by Ray Sexton from 
Indianapolis and total cost is only $25 for 
five weeks. 
Ifyou would Uke to join this class, ynu can register at the first lesson. 
Tbis offer Is limited to Notre Dame and 
SaintMary's Students Only. 
combined Glee Club-Shenanigans 
concert. 

The new festival format is in­
tended to enhance homecoming, 
according to co-chairwomen Tina 
Persson and Liza Salvador. The fes­
tival is "totally different" from last 
year's homecoming, added Persson. 
"We are much further ahead now 
than we were last year:· Persson ex­
plained. "We would like to get stu­
dents more excited this week than 
in years past... 

Tomorrow. 'Domer Day." will 
consist of a tug-of-war competition 
and an Irish dinner sponsored by the 
dining halls. The 'Tug o· \X'ar Chal­
lt:ngc' pits teams oftcn organiznl by 
dorm presidcnts and section leadt·rs 
against teams from other dorms and 
promises to be a major campus 
event, said Persson. 

Traditional homecoming ac­
tivities are planned for Friday night, 
with fireworks at 8:30 and a 9:00 
bonfire at White Field. 

Saturday a·fternoon's parade prior 
to the homecoming game with Pitts­
burgh will feature class floats, now 
being constructed at various loca­
tions on campus. A dance will be 
held at the South Dining Hall Friday 
night from 9:.~0 to l. 

Father Theodore Hesburgh, l ini­
versity president will celebrate Mass 
at Sacred Heart to conclude the 
week on Sunday. 

The hall banner competition 
began earlier this week and offers 
top prizes of S50 and S25 to the 
treasuries of the winning dorms. 

• • .HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 

could be allowed to use D-6 parking lot in the winter when it is not needed by golfers. "It's a pretty far walk to your car now -you'd freeze in the winter." he said. 
Crawford also presented another problem. "There has to be a better way to distribute football tickets," he said. 
The lunch lines were also dis­cussed. Holy Cross President Chris Tayback offered the solution of scheduling classes during the lunch hour on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
r!ii~-~-~---------~ 
. : 
I I 
"DANCE NIGHT" I 
I
Music by DEWAN I 
I
lOPM -3AM I 
I 
I
Jeff Etolll, owner, NO '78 
I 
:255-7797 I 
.,__________ clip & save-••••••••••••••.1 ~~OQQQ90~0QQQ9]00QOQQ~QQQQQQQQQQO~ I 
~------------------1 
J 






View~oint 
Wednesday, November 2, 1983-page 4 

Dig in or get out of Lebanon 
The ~Tar b I 9H5. And in a land far from hne there has bccn tight ing for many years. Al­though li:w countrit.·~ an· direnly involved. many unmtril"~ art.· umct.-rned about the rt.·gion. So many. in fact. that the sit.ks are not dearly drawn. 
Robert Walsh 
Gue~t opinion 
The death toll rose ...and an offin:r in chargt.· of identifying his comrades was deprt.·~snl -bdilrt.· tht.· Marines went to slet.·p t.·ach night. many lOok off their "dog-tags" and laid them on the table next to their beds. "You tdl them again and again to wear them always, hut still they takt.· tht.·m oiC he said. 
Also in that year of I<JH.-\ a leader of a great and powerful country on this side ofthe world was concernt.·d about his country's interests in that troublnl rq~ion. So he sent legions of 


Reagan's signal to the world 
l.a~t Wt.Tk, Amnican malt.·s ofdraft age who had previou~ly givt.·n ~carce attention to the front pagl·~ ofthi~ nation·~ newspapns began to ~tudy in earru-st the intensifying involve­mt.·nt of l !.S. military li1rt.-cs in the Middle East and the Caribbean. 

Robert Lloyd Snyder 
--------------·-­
Then midweek 

The tragil" and st.·nsl·kss bombing of the M.trine compound in Bcirut dominated tht.· headlines early in tht.· wt.'t:k, but was usurpnl by till" suddt.·n and unexpl"l"tcd AnKrican in· vasion of (;renada. Tht.· l'rcsidt.·nt evt.·n ap· peared on national television in ordt.·r to argue tlw importance of the presl·nce of American military pn~onnd in thne two world troubk spots. 
Yet a large sl·gmt.·nt of tht.· public (i.e. the l'lt.-ctoratt.•) rl·nuin~ unconvineed of the wis· dom of tlw Administration's li1rcign policy which again bring~ honH· dead and wourH.led Americtn youth from fordgn ~hore~. 
The intt.-rnational l"limatt.· has hl"<llnl up 

P. 0. Box Q 
-------------------------------------1 

Student power? 
near l:"tlitor· 
If Fr. Tlwmlort.· Ilt.-shurgh honestly ~lands behind hi~ statt.·ment that ··our students cspt.·­eiallv mu~t karn that they an· not powl·rless" ( 1Jw Ohsert•er. <>ct I.~), then lw also provn thl· poliq he .tnd hb administration have pur.,unl ridiculous. 
Then· b hardly .t univnsity likt.· Notrt.· I >ame. \\ ht.-rt.· stmknt~ are so much db­couragnf to hdieve in thcir own power. and in tlwir responsibility and ability to llt.-ci t.k on certain is~uc~. Trying to tt.·aeh students how to intluetKl" the den·lopnH·nt oftht· imernation­
al arms race hl"fort.· they l"VlT had thl· oppor­turtity to l"Xt"l"lltt.·tht.·ir intlut·ntT onunin·rsitv mattlT~. b likt.· trying to makt.· somd)ody nmk Beef Stroganov hd(ort.· thev en·n managt.·d to hoiI an egg. 
If" 1-r. llohurgh hone~tly hdit.'\Td that the 

/lux(). 'VPire /Jame. I\" ·tf>'i'i(, (.! I'J) .!_)'). 'i.)O.) 
/he ()/Jserr•er "rhe rndqwndt·nt m·w,papn puhlt~hnl h\ the studt.·nr-ol till' llnr· \l"r"r'· oii\Jotn· l>.tmt· du l.at.· and "alllt .\lan··~ Collegt.· It does not rwn·,~arih rdlect the polrue' ol the .tdmonr,tratron olnrlwr rn,toturoon The nt·w, •~ reported"' at. t uratdv and"' ohttTII\Tiv ,1, po."rhk l n'tgnnlediroro;.~h represent thl· oprnon of a m.trortl\ ott he hlrtorr.rll\oard Commcntarte'. leut.-r'. and tht· ln~rdt· Column pre-.c.·nt rIa· new' ol thnr .turhor' < olumn 'pan·" avarlahk ro allmembt-rs ol rhc nommunllv. .md tht· lrtT e'IHl"""mol '.trnng oprnron~ on ctmpu~. through lettt·r,. rs t.·nnHHagt·d 
men over to protect his country's beliefs. Other countries with similar interests fi1llowcd suit. and outside involvt.·ment in the region e~calated. 
These men did not come to conquer the n·gion, hut rather ro keep pt.·ace in the land. They proved this hy taking a conservative, non-aggressive stance. They occupied the worst military positi<,n ofan encircled unit in recent memory. They held a position which was far under nearby mountains, and conse­quently vulnerable to gun fire from snipers. 
The death toll rose ...and an officer in charge of identifying his comrades was depressed -many Marines sleep in their un­derwear, leaving their fatigues on the floor. "Everything in the military is marked with your name, except your underwear." 
Furthermore, since the peace-kcepers wcrc non-combative, they could not bc involved in any kind of battles. Thcy could not dig in and set.·urc themselves in hunkers. They werc not allowed to create roadblocks which could have made their position less vulnerable to terrorists' attack. No, thcir only mission was to 
considerably for li.S. policymakers since the mid-'70s; sint.T then, Americans have wit· ncssed the "loss" of Iran and that country's potentially catastrophic war with Iraq, the tor­turous stagnation of once-bright hopes for peace in the Middle East. conflict and tur­buknce in Latin America, the imposition of martial law in Poland, and the deterioration of the once-stable and pro-American Marcos rq~inK· in the Philippines. 
And now. for the first time since the evacua­
tion ofSaigon. American military forces are in· 
voln·d in an offensive capacity on a large scale 
in a foreign land. 
The spectre ofVietnam still looms over this nation's affairs; in Congressional dcbates, the memory of that war is wielded as a knife by opponents of the President's forcign policy. Tlw foreign policy advice of many of these representatives, however, seems hardly con­structive. Many ofthcir foreign policy stances can be suecinc•ly summarized in the dirge­likt.• repetition of the sentence We cannot al­
loll' ourseft•es to become int•olved in another Vietnam. 
The politically-motivatnl and degrading evocation of Vietnam by some of these 
studenb at Notre Dame have thc insight and tlw moral stand to have a say in such a crucial issue. then he doubtlessly would acknowl· edge their insight and moral stand, enabling them to dccidl· issucs in their immediate life at Notrt.· Dame. fknying their ability and responsibility to deal with alcohol, sex, politi­cal and social extremes on their own, absurdly contradicts at.·knowledging their ability to prt.·vcnt a nuclt.·ar contlict. 
I 11rmly believe that the students at Notrc l>amc should karn how to use their education and talent in order to work against obvious wrong-doings on a w:orld-widt.· basis. However. I belk\T t.·ven more tlrmly that the same stut.knts should bt.· encouragt.·d to tlt."n·lop an nlucated use of their power and rt.·sponsibility in the immediate environment of this university. 
Otherwise, Fr. llcsburgh's words are just coming from "a noisy gong or a clanging cym­bal."' 
S)'lt•ia Mayr 
"keep peace," although many wondered if finding pcacc would be tougher than keeping it. 
The death toll rose ...and an officer in charge of identifying his comrades was depressed -many Marin.es who had been un· earthed were beyond recognition. "I can't even get dental impressions, the fallout of the blast was just that powerful," he said. 
In their role the peacekeepers began making progress. The land slowly was becom­ing less troubled. Natives were enjoying more freedom. But these pseudo-invaders, these peacekeepers, still lack a clear-cut mission. They still had no enemy. Lastly, they still had to face incredible civil strife, a contention that would seemingly never end. 
The death toll rose ...and an officer in charge of identifying the Marines was depressed -eight days after the blast many Marines were still buried in the rubble. Only two of the five stories of their headquarters had been uncovered. "If any had survived the explosion and were buried, they're now dead. Furthermore, many families won't have a 
grandstanding politicoes is a disgrace and a slap in the face to persons whose lives were critically altered by that war. 
Grenada is not Vietnam. Lebanon is not Vietnam. They are two separate and unique scenarios, and while we must apply our Viet­nam experience to any future foreign policy decisions, we must also have the aptitude to recognize areas of the world critical to the "national interest" and possess a national character strong enough to protect those in· !crests. 
The situation in Lebanon is of critical im­portance to the future of the Middle East and ultimately the entire world. Every factional skirmish in Lebanon has the potcntial to erupt into a greater Middle Eastern war or perhaps an altercation between the USSR and the US. 
Furthermore, the attempted subversion ofa nation in the de facto "backyard" of the llnited States is a flagrant and knowing viola· tion by the Soviet Union of the Monroe Doctrine. For all the political hullaballoo that the United States has raised over Afganistan and Poland, this country has long implicitly rccognized the existance of "spheres of in­fluence" for cach superpower. The "control" 
body to mourn, while others might not want 
what we can give them," he said. 
Months after they had arrived to keep 
peace, a man driving a truck approached the 
gates of their headquarters. Perhaps the man 
did not know they were non-aggressive. 
Maybe he was unaware that they were hdping 
him gain freedom. But the driver did know his 
mission. And he was aware that his truck 
carried over 2000 pounds ofTNT. 
As he rammed through the gates with a 
smile on his face, he knew well there would 
soon be fewer peace-keepers. Over 200 men 
would experience the same nightmare in 
their sleep, but instead ofwaking up in a cold 
sweat, they would not wake up at all. 
The death toll rose and an officer in charge 
of identifying his comrades was depressed ­
the morale ofhis troops was low. He crouched 
low to avoid the snipers bullets, his helmet 
caked with dirt, his eyes tired from round-the­
clock searching. Through his once white 
surgical mast, in place because ofthe stench of 
his friends' bodies, he whispered simply,"We 
should either dig-in or get out." 
of the Caribbean is undeniably crucial to American foreign policy, as is control of East· ern Europe to the Soviet Union. 
Why has the United States decided to invade a third-rate threat to American security? It was not primarily because ofcon­cern for the safety of American students in Grenada, or because the government of Maurice Bishop was deposed in a bloody coup, or because of the desire of the United States to act as the protector of the Grenadan people from the "evil empire." 
The reason that the Prcsident ordered the invasion ofGrenada, and why U.S. Marines arc stationed as sitting ducks in Bcirut, and the reason why more American boys will be sent home filr a final time is that the President believed these sacrifices neccessary to protect the national interest and the future of this country. 
And whether you agree with Reagan's responses to these international policy problems or not, he has succeeded in sending a message to the entire world that the United States is determined to fulfill its commitments and defend its perceived and well-known in­terests. 

Editor-in-Chief . . . . . ........ David Dziedzic Managing Editor . . . . ..... Margaret Fosmoe Executive Edi!Or ................. Paul McGinn Controlfer . ...................... Alex Szilva~ News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzaum: i..a Croix Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyn.ki Circulation Manager . ............. Mark Miotto Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltoc System Manager ............... Kevin Williams Pho/0 Editor ................. Scott Bower 
.\jwrts l:"ditor \lrchad Sullivan Founded November 3, 1966 
• 

....c====----Ihe Obset:VeE=====Editorial Board 
Department Managers 


Showcase 
Wednesday, November 2, 1983 -page 5 
Miss Manners 
The most generous of hosts and how to d•~al with them 
by Judith Martin 
T
he most generous hosts Miss Manners knows ofare careful to ensure that their guests receive nothing that is not ofthe highest quality and exactly to their taste, refuse to allow any reciprocation, and will not intrude on their privacy even to the extent ofsharing with them in the bounty. 
They entertain constantly, and, 110t content with dispensing food, drink and little presents, always try to slip a bit ofcash unobtrusively into their guests' pockets. 
These hosts are corporations. Miss Manners cannot bear it when corporations anthropomorphize themselves for the purpose ofat­tributing desirable human qualities such as friendliness to them­selves, but she must do it herselfin order to demonstrate how rude it is to impose on such hosts. 
The illegal aspects ofexpense account life are not really in Miss Manners' domain. She would like to state haughtily that no person of gentle manners would ever dream ofmanipulating expense ac­counts to his'personal benefit, but the evidence is against her. 
However, there are legal methods, in quite common practice, of using expense accounts in ways that nevertheless violate the laws of etiquette. About those, she can be as haughty as she likes. 
The widespread beliefthat nobody pays for expense account living, that the business world is simply bountiful in the way that nature is supposed to be, has affectc~d the behavior not only ofthose who preside over the expense accounts, but the recipients oftheir invitations. 
Miss Manners has nothing agaimt the expense account meal, which has several clear business purposes: 
To put a person on his social marners, which are more modest and agreeable and yielding than business manners, in order to secure a business advantage. 
To create an obligation that mm.t be reciprocated in services, rather than a return engagement. To indicate that oneselfand one's business are so prosperous that a luxurious standard ofliving is tal; en for granted by both. To befuddle someone by food, drink or flattering conversation, so as to blunt his business sense. 
You will notice that Miss Manners has not included on this list the exchange of valuable information and the shaping ofbusiness deals, but she does not object to those who wish to believe that that is what is done. 
What must not be done is to sneer at the gullibility of the absent host, and recommend that he be fleeced. 
This means that the keeper ofthe expense account does not ex­tend normal hospitality by such remarks as "Oh, come on, why not, I'm putting in for it," and that the recipient does not inquire, with the smugness ofone who shows consideration and delicacy, "You're not paying for this yourself, are you?" before ordering. 
Proper restaurant behavior, in case anyone has confused it with the rules ofjuvenile shoplifting partnerships, is for the host to men­tion a reasonably generous range of possibilities, but for the recipient to refrain from orderingcoursesor specialties without the insistence or example of the host. The worthy adage, "A lady always orders from the middle ofthe menu" applies to anyone not playing the host. And ladies and gentlemen, in both their business and their social lives, always pretend that the company, and not the free groceries, are the attraction when t:hey dine out, even when the groceries are provided by the company's company. 
Dear Miss Manners -My fiance~ is in the nasty habit ofsaying "Thank you" after we have physically expressed our love (I'm trying to be dainty here). This seems som1:how cold and mercenary to me. He is otherwise a perfect gentlem~.n. but this misuse(?) of"Thank you" makes me cringe. 
Although "Thank you" is all too underused these days, I wonder if this is a correct usage. Ifso should my response be "You're wdcome." or "Thank YOU!"? 
Please, Miss Manners, please help me. I feel as though I've just handed him his dry cleaning, rather than demonstrated my undying love. 
Gentle Reader-"You're welcome" is certainly one correct answer to "Thank you," and "Thank YOU" is all right, too. So is, "Oh, it was nothing, really," although Miss Manners does not particularly recommend that in this instance. 
She is somewhat disturbed by your mentioning, in your case against the appropriateness ofyour fiance's politeness, that you find it mercenary. Are you suggesting that he is thanking you for giving him free what he might otherwise have to pay for? Surely not. Cannot you assume, as Miss Manners certa:.nly does, that his statement is a briefversion of"Thank you for enriching my life and entrusting to me the great bounty ofyour love"? 
If not, the fact that what ought to be a tender moment is one that you associate with dry cleaning, to put it equally daintily, is, although not an etiquette problem, a problem that Miss Manners strongly sug­gests you resolve between the two l)fyou before proceedingany fur­ther. 
Feeling incorrect? Address your etiquette questions (in black or blue-black ink on white writingptrper) toMiss Manners, in care of this newspaper. 
Copyright, 1983, United Feature Syndicate, Inc. 

Concert review 
Lover boy, Joan Jett thrill crowd 


for chance of a lifetime 
by Karen McCloskey 
A nybody who loves rock 'n roll .r\..had a chance in a lifetime Satur­day when)oan)ett and the Black­hearts and Loverboy stormed the ACC for an evening ofkick-ass rock 'n roll. 
Concert-goers were treated to two great bandswith different styles ofperformance. In these days of skyrocketing ticket costs, it was a 

Joan lett 

rare opportunity to see two shows for the price ofone. 
Joan)ett opened the eveningwith "Bad Reputation" her autobiographical anthem about making it in the music industry. The band then cranked out tunes from their recent album, A/bum, includ­ing "Fake Friends" and "French Song." 
Although most oftheir lighting 
was limited to color changes and 
spots,)ett and her band made good 
use ofspecial spots for"Crimson and 
Clover" and flashing red siren lights 
for" Victim ofCircumstance." 
Jett's greatest asset is her spon­taneity and rapport with the crowd. From the first strains of"Shout" to the overpowering "Do You Wanna 

Movies 
Touch11 ) ett had the crowd on tts teet and dancing in the aisles. The arena had the atmosphere ofa giant party withjett, bass player Gary Ryan, 
drummer Lee Crystal, and guitarist 
Ricky Byrd leading the revelry. 
)ett and the Blackhearts fulfilled their role as a warm-up band by get­tingthe audience on its feet ad rock­in'. The rowdiness they inspired endured the change ofsets as the audience exploded as the lights dimmed for Loverboy, the main event. 

Loverboy took the stage amidst thunderous cheers and applause from the audience. They ran through their show, sweeping the crowd along at a non-stop, breakneck pace. 
Candles and pumpkins decorated the stage for a special Halloween ef­fect. These complemented the so­phisticated lighting display that included multi-colored flashing that ~;hythmically accompanied solos by drummer, Matt Frenette, and lead guitarist Paul Dean. Blue and green lasers illuminated fog that screened 
the group to give a surreal video-like 
appearance. 

The packed house was treated to hits off ofthe recent album Keep it Up including "Queen ofthe Broken Hearts" which opened their show, and "Hot Girls in Love." 
Loverboy also performed favorites from Get Lucky, the band's first abum such as "Turn Me Loose" and one which could be the Notre Dame student anthem, "Workin' for the Weekend." The band concluded its three song encore with "The Kid Is Hot Tonite." 
Unlike Jett whose show was very personal, Loverboy and its lead singer, Mike Reno, presented a very polished and almost too rehearsed style. But this did not seem to bother the predominately high-school age crowd who cheered wildly as Reno SI'lashed a)ack-o-Lantern with a baseball bat and Scott Smith,the bass player, kicked another offthe stage. 
Overall, it was a good show, but there were some flaws that coukl have been corrected. The sound for )ett and the Blackhearts was a bit too soft. "I Love Rock'n Roll" was not as overpowering as it could have been. In contrast, Loverboywas deafening. Aconcert is not really enjoyable when the vocals are inaudible. Reno was barely able to be heard over the strains ofthe other members. 
The crowd reaction to the two bands was overwhelmingly positive and rightly so for both put on mag­nificent shows. Unfortunately, it is all too often that acoustic quality is lost in the ACC. Perhaps someday, some bright engineering student can overcome this problem. And then)ett, the Blackhearts and Lover­boy can return to an even more responsive crowd, ifthat is possible. 

th€ ~€atUR€S Oept. or 

IheDbserYer 
is holding a meeting for all staffwriters and all those interested in writing Thursday, November 3, 1983 at 7p.m. on the third floor ofLaFortune 


A celebration of song and color 
by Rev. Gerry Kleba 
guestfeatures writer 
I
t's an upbeat story in a beat-up neighborhood. That's the pitture behind the people and the music of the movie, "Say Amen, Somebody." This 1982 film produced with fund­ing from the National Endowment for the Arts will be shown at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns on Nov. 2 and 3. The movie is a celebration of songand color that has received rare reviews in the Washington Post, The Saint Louis Post-Dispatch and The Cleveland Plain Dealer. 
The movie highlights the life of the grandmother ofgospel singing, Willie Mae Ford Smith ofSt. Louis. Much ofit was filmed in her home and in the surrounding black inner­city community. Some ofthe sights are not all that pretty, but the sounds and the smiles and the stories will warm the heart and set toes atappin'. The climax of the movie is filmed at a gospel extravaganza equivalent to "Woodstock," which members of the Antioch Missionary Baptist Church held to commemorate the 
60 years that Mother Smith had sung in their church. 
As the family gathers from around the country to mark this milestone in black religious singing, some ten­der moments are shared over a fami­ly barbeque dinner, in a ride through the old neighborhood, and on a par­ticularly poignant visit to the huge, vacant Union Station in St. Louis. There, amidst the rusting track and the massive echoing halls and cor­ridors, Mrs. Smith's children reminisce. They recall the criticism their mother got for standing up in church when that was clearly a man's world. They remember how a woman leaving her far11ily to sing at a revival was almost judged to be un­faithful to her husband and children. In one particularscene her grandson drives her around the old neighbor­hood and chides her with some 
good-natured male chauvinism, questioning the women who are too pushy in the church. She responds with smiling confidence saying, "What do you mean, boy saying that a woman who bore you and clothed and fed you can't preach the Good 
News?" 
But most ofall, "Say Amen, Some­body" is music sung by happy people who radiate their faith with every fiber oftheir being. As the story unravels, there are some im­portant insights into black and feminist religious thinking. All ofthis is presented with wonderful warmth and poise by "real people" who give us a hospitable welcome into their hearts and homes. 
All ofthis is not to mislead the viewer into thinking that this is a home movie. Technically, this production distributed by United ' Artists is ofthe highest calibre in sound, color and camera work. If you have a hour and forty-five minutes to get educated and happy, you will want to mark your calendar now and then come early for a good seat. 
Rev. Geny Klaba is Director of Diocesan Programs atMoreau Seminary andspentabout ten years as a pastor in the inner city ofSt. Louis. 

r 


Sports Briefs 

Domer Six T-shirts are in at last. If you ran in the Domer Six Mile race, please pick up your shirt hy 5 p.m. tomorrow. 
-The ObsenJer 

Windsurfing T-shirts are now in. The club will meet in LaFortune at 7 p.m. today. Members are asked to bring 57 to the meeting. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Ski team will hold a short meeting at 7 p.m. tomorrow in LaFortune Little Theater. Everyone must bring prt oofofinsurance. Those going tojackson Hole should bringa $I SO deposit. -The Obseroer 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes wm 
be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All are invited to attend. -The Obseroer 
Session two of aerobics has begun. Newcomers are welcome to join the Monday-Wednesday class. There are two sessions of class. The first begins at 4 p.m., and the second one fol­lows at S: IS p.m. Call the NVA officeat 239-6100 for more details. ­
The ObsenJer 

The second annual "Turkey Shoot," a co-ree target shooting contest, is being sponsored by NVA. No ex­perience is necessary. You must reserve a time for your team oftwo men and two women. The deadline for sign-up is Nov. II. Call 239· 6100 for more information. -The Obseroer 
....... , 
* *
* *
* :
*-GO IRISH! * 
* * 

: POUND PITI!! : 
* *
* *
* * 
~....•..........\ 
continued from page 8 

Dame points increased to 13 as the Irish moved out to a quick S-0 lead. The Belles never recovered as they fell behind 10·3 before making it tough for Notre Dame to score. It was only a matter of time before it was all over, though. 
The victory puts an end to a very busy week for Vanslager's squad. Last Tuesday, the Irish traveled to Chicago to take on Loyola, losing a heartbreaker to the Ramblers, 1 S-6, IS-S, 12-1 S, 9·1 S, 15-13. The crucial event of the match came with the score 14-13 Loyola in the fifth game. Vanslager called a timeout but was not heard above the crowd noise. The timeout was not granted and Loyola won the next point. 
The following day, Notre Dame lost another tough game to St. Louis, 10-15,15-10,15-9,9-15, 1S-12.The loss was especially disappointing to the team, because they had excel­lent support from the Glee Club which happened to be in St. Louis at the time. 
Finally, last Saturday, the tired 
STUDENTS FOR RESPONSIBLE UNIVERSITYINVESTMENTS 
An organizational meeting of a student and faculty committee to explore the issue of how and where Notre Dame invests its $250 million endowment. 
Thursday, November 3rd LaFortune Little Theatre 7:00PM 
Wednesday, November 2, 1983 -page 6 
• • • Irish 
Irish knocked off Valparaiso, I 5-l 0, but one player returning, the future 6-15, l 5-8, I 5-7. looks hright. 
Last night's contest also marked IRISH ITEMS -The next home the end of the Saint Mary's regular game for the Irish will be Saturday at season. The Belles finished with an noon against DePaul. It will be the 11-12 record in Goralski's first year. first game in Notre Dame volleyball They also finished sixth among the history to be played in the ACC 21 NAIA teams, despite being the Arena. shortest team in the NAJA. With all 
TEACHERS. 
You're Needed AIIOverthe World. 
Ask Peace Corps volunteers why they teach Special Education or Math/Science in Africa... Ask other volunteers why they work as Primary Educators in Latin America. They'll probably say they want to help people, use their skills, travel, learn a new language, and gain valuable career experience. Ask them why Peace Corps is the toughest job you'll ever love . 
Peace Corps Reps on Campus Nov. 8, 9, & 10. Interested Seniors sign up for interview in the Placement Office 


PEACE CORPS 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertisin!S from 9 a.m. lo 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. lo 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classificds must be prepaid, either in per­
son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per day. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
PART TIME BARTENDER POSITIONS OPEN TO STUDENTS HOURS FLEXIBLE. APPLY IN PERSON ONLY AFTER 8 P M HICKORY HIRAMS CORNER OF MISHAWAKA AVE AND MAIN ST MISHAWAKA 
TYPING SERVICE Pmtess1ona\ expenence w1th math equa­tions. stat1strcal and general typmg. For last & accurate servtce. call 256-5469 Prrces vary 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST Mrs Bedford 288·2107 
Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m .. Mon thru Fri. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. Reasonable rates. Call 287· 5162. 
CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKSCHEESESTEAKS 
PSYCHO Frt& Sat 8.10,12 PM K otC Hall $1. Members Free 
$ $ Part ltme employment avatlable tor energettc student Good sales ex· penance. Set own hours Reputable. expandrng company For mtervrew call Bob at259·3957 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN JOINING A NATIONAL FRATERNITY COMING TO N 0 NEXT YEAR PLEASE CALL -1942 

ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST One patr of DIADORA tennts shoes--whrte wrth blue stnpe If found. p:ease contact ChriS. at3113 THANKS I! I 
FOUND PORTRAIT OF GIRL THE PORTRAIT WAS FOUND IN A PIANO PRACTICE ROOM IN CROWLEY HALL OF MUSIC WRIITEN ON THE BACK OF THE PHOTO IS THE FOLLOWING 
TO GARY. WITH ALL MY LOVE. YOURS ALWAYS. LISA. CALLJOHNAT 8318TOCLAIM 
LOST: Wire eyegl..aes with brown ceae. Cell 8297. 
HELP! Can·t see' LOST patr of glasses. 
Gemini" in black case (EYE CARE DOC· TORS,WICKLIFFE.OHIO).Brown frames. clear plasltc tenses. LOST 10·1 9 possibly in Engineertng audtortum. 
LOST DARK BLUE RUNNING JACKET. WITH SUB 4" ON THE FRONT. AND FOUR WHITE STRIPES ON THE SLEEVES. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 8928 
LOST:BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE UMBRELLA IN 127 NSH. HAD INITIALS RPM ON HANDLE CALL RICH 8731 

FOR RENT 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE 277-3604 
HOUSEMATE FEMALE $175 MO. EX­CELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO NO. GROCERY STORE, FUR­NISHED. 233-6081 

WANTED 
need Pitt GAs 282·1756 

RIDE NEEDED FRIDAY 111040R 11103 TO EXIT 4 ON OHIO TURNPIKE CALL NO 2737 
NEED 1 PITT GA OR STU TICK BAD­LVII CALL 1972 FOR A GOOD DEAL. 
Need a nde lo East Lanstng 11/11. Please call Melody. 284·4298 
RAFFERTYS IS HIRING COOKS WAITRESS AND HOSTESS SIMILIER TOT G. IF MENUE APPLY MON-FRI4· 
6 

Really need RIDE to OHIO on 11/41! THANKS!! CALL JON AT 3659!' 

FOR SALE 

FOR SALE TECHNICS SA-80 STEREO RECEIVER, 15 WAITS PER CHANNEL, EXCELLENT CONDITION $50_ WILL TAKE OTHER OFFERS CALL TIM AT 8897 
:~..o.-1_Ti_C_KE_T_S~ 
PITT GA'S NEEDEDIll Wtll pay big$$$$ 
Call Tom Hollerbach collect al (312) 565· 
5959. 

..................... NEED 8 GAS FOR Pin. MUST BE IN PAIRS. CALL KEVIN AT 8636 I need tickets to any remaining home 
~·game (NAVY, PIIT, or AIR FORCE) Call Joe at1208 BEFORE you sell yours. 
I NEED Pin TICKETS. DESPERATELY NEED GA OR STD. TICKS FOR 4 GOA· GEOUS GIRLS· IT MAY BE WORTH YOUR WHILE!! CALL TOM 8549. 
W,I\NTED: 3 STUD. PITT. TIX. CALL STEVE 8885. 
PITT-Need up to three stu. 11x. Will pay cash. Call 3384 ask lor Mtke. 
NEEDED AT LEAST 6 GA TIX FOR THE PITT GAME ON NOV. 5TH. CALL CATHYNO 6773 
Need Pitt tix. Call 1695. 

DESPERATELY NEED TWO Pin GA'S TOGETHER !I CALL JEFF 8917 
FOR SALE TWO Ptn GA'S CALL ROSEMARY AT 6232 
BURT WENT YES. BURT WENT. NEEDS TWO TIX TOTHE BIG.. Pin GAME. CALL FLIP AT 277-4282 
NEED PITT STUD & GA TIX. CALL CHRIS AT 283-1657 OR SUSAN AT 284· 5203. 
HAVE 4 PITT GA'S WANT TO TRADE FOR OR BUY PENN ST TIX CALL 1796 
$$$$ lor Pttt GAs Need tour or patrs. Call now--Rob·3251 
HELP I! I DESPERATELY NEED PITT GA'S OR STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALL DICK AT 288-7273 
AC/OC AT THE ACC FRI NOV 4 GET 
YOUR TICKETS AT THE ACC NOW!!I! 
NEED 4 OR MORE GAS FOR PIIT GAME. WILL PAY BIG MONEY. CALL 284-5180 MAUREEN 
I NEED 4 PITT GAs. ALL TOGETHER OR 
ANY 2 PAIRS ERIC-3597 

NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD. TIX. Call Sue 
81050. 

Need 4 Pin TIX!! Student or GA Call 
Colleen NO. 6882 

Need Sludent and GA lor Pitt Call kevin 
at277-8452 

need 6 GAs for Pitt call Bill 256-1223 any 
prtee 

NEED 6 STU OR GA. FOR Pin. SEAN 
277·1405 HELP!! PARENTS WILL DISOWN ME UNLESS I GET TW0(2) Pin GAS PLEASE HELP! CALL JOHN AT 1487 

TWO Pin GA'S. I NEED .EM. YOU GOT EM PARENTS WILL THANK YOU IN PERSON MICKEY 1576 
HELP ME, PLEASE 

AN ALUMNUS FRIEND IS COMING ALL THE WAY FROM BOSTON TO SEE THE IRISH CRUSH PITT. HE NEEDS TWO GA'S FOR THE GAME. CALL DAVID AT 
277·1326. 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 Pin STU­DENT TIX. FRIEND FLYING IN FROM TEXAS. BIG BUCKS. CALL DAN 283­3506 
FOR SALE. 1 Stu Pi111icke1 or best offer_ Call 284·4094 
SH-Til (& nol JUS! on Pitt I) I'm in dire need ol3 GA's or 3 student tickets tor NO vs. Pitt. Call Jean at284-4147. 
WANTED: PIIT GAS. CALL GERRY AT 1604. KEEP TRYING IF YOU DON'T REACH ME. 
I have 4 PIIT GA'sl!! Will TRADE lor 4 STUDENTw/10. Lynn NO 1285 
Need Ptn Student Tix. call Doug at232· 1955 
HAVE 2 PIIT GA S.40 yd. line.Asktng reasonable.Call atter 9 pm 1170 
Girl lnends lett town. Need 4 RESV. Tix tor Air Force. Call Chuck M-F 8-5 234· 0229 or 234-2090. I WANTEM BACK 
I NEED Pin GA'S CALL TOM 1154 
Have two Pin ga's. Need 2 or 3 sludent fix Will deai.JOHN 1188 
Pin TIX --2 ON THE 50 YARD LINE·· BEST OFFER CALL 21 83-8046 
HELPII NEED PIIT GA'S.272-6306,232· 1466. 
Filthy nch parents are coming tor Pttt game. II you want to make mega-bucks and you have 2 Pttt GA·s call Thom at 277-7577 
Need One. Or Two Tickets To NO VS Pin. Please Call GREG 256·0432 
4 SALE 5 PITT TIX. BEST OFFER CALL 
3669. 
NEED 2 PITT GA'S CALL 8585 
FOR SALE: 2 PIIT GA'S & 1 ST TIX BEST OFFER. MIKE 3059 
PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED FOR RICH ALUMS. CALL 234-4706 
Need 2 Pitt GA's. Call Katie 2703 
For Sale 1 Pitt Studenl Ttcket Best offer ­8109 
I need Pin GA. S call Mary 284·5084 
FOR SALE 4 Pin GAs. BEST OFFER BY FRIDAY GETS THEM CALL TOM AT 3537. 



PERSONALS 
GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT II TRY A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE. NOW DELIVER· lNG MON-SAT 9-12pm. CALL 272·4453 
BED AND BREAKFAST • loolball weekends tor NO parents_ Two (2) ntght minimum. 10 mins. from campus. 272­5640. 
CAREER DECISIONS WORKSHOP-­HOW TO DECIDE--FOR SOPHOMORES. JUNIORS. SENIORS. GIVEN BY JOAN MCINTOSH. CAREER COUNSELOR. CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES. AM 222 ADMIN BLDG.. THURS . NOV 3. 3 30·5:00 PM CALL 239-5200 TO REGISTER 
SODOM AND GOMORRAH GET PSYCHED FOR PIIT THIS FRIDAY NITE ATSODOM AND GOMORRAH 
ENJOY PRIME RIB AT AGOSTINOS WHISTLE STOP 602 SO. WALNUT CALL FOR RESERVATIONS AT 232­2494 
I NEED PITTGA'S. CALLDAVIDAT277· 
1326. 
AITENTION JUNIORS We are tn need of an arttsttc person to destgn the cover for the Jumor Parents Weekend Mass program. Deadline ts Fnday November 11 For details call Erin at8001. 
THEO MAJORS. You are tnvtled to a l~cture--Salvallon Through lmagtnattan··--gtven by Bernard Cooke tonight at 8:00 p.m. in lhe Ltbrary Auditorium. Immediately after the lecture. please come to the Center for Social Con­cerns for refresh-ments and dtscusston. 
Ouestton/ Answer Sess1on Given By Rev 
T. Tallarida (Direclor ollnternallonal Stu· denls Affairs) at La Fortune Little Theatre On Wednesday 11.2 at7.30 p.m. TOPIC 
U.S. lmmigralion Regulations All Welcome 

ROSEANN HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! Have a great Sunday I Love. Martpal 
USHERS RULE ... STUDENT Fl 
SANDRA LYNN & JOYCE TADA·B. I KNOW HOW MUCH YOU HAVE AL· WAYS WANTED YOUR VERY OWN GIANT SIZED (LIKE AW) PERSONAL AD. JUST WANTED TO SAY I MISS YOU TONS AND THINK ABOUT YOU CON­STANTLY NO CUTE FRENCHMEN­THEY'RE TOO SKINNY BEHAVE-I'LL BE BACK SOON' LOVE YOU MUCH LISA 
THERE ONCE WAS A MAN NAMED STEAK WHO LOVED A CHEESE NAMED LOUISE THEY HAD MANY CHEESESTEAKS AND LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER.. 
CHEESESTEAKS· CHEESESTEAKS HOWARD HALL PRESENTS WE ONES· DAY NIGHT CHEESESTEAKSI!I! FREE DELIV ERY FREE DELIVERY..CALL 8200 between 9:00·11.30 to order.. 
Halloween Movie PSYCHO 
See the mtdnighl show it you dare! 
Fn & Sat nights. see PSYCHO at the K of C hall. Sponsored by the Kn>ghts of Columbus 
KARN Ice tn the dark Happy Btrthdayl! 
NEED ONE Pin STUD OR GA TOM 277·4283 
Thts IS lor Fehcta at St Mary s who IS on the Crew team and has never had a per· seal before HELLO I! 
DEAR NILL-WE HEART YOU AND WE THINK YOU RE SWELL! HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
IF HARRY CHAPIN WENT TO NOTRE DAME. WOULD HE WANT TO LIVE IN DILLON? OR WOULD HE WANT TO BE ARAMONE? 
YES. AGAIN SMC COFFEEHOUSE IS HERE AGAIN COME OVER AND LIS­TEN TO SOME TERRIFIC TALENT NOS OWN MICHAEL REINHART WILL PLAY. THERE WILL ALSO BE AN OPEN STAGE. SO COME WATCH OR PER­FORMtFRIOAY. NOV. 4TH. 8PM IN THE HCC CHAMELEON ROOM BE THERE1 
3 blind m1ce, buttercup. Charhes angels. the casual puke, Whoa Whoa. 1. mamott raid. rice in jail. alumni, b-bongs. bonk senior bar. great amencan. flagpoles. be bad...only the BEGINNING of a great 
year girls! 
Ed. Mark. Jason. Bob·We wanna party wtlh YOUI Let's nol wa11 till next Hal­loween to do 11 agatn. Thanks lor the bash h was PHENOMENAL! three blind mtee 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
T0 d~Y--------------------W~~~~~~~-.e•d•n•e-sd•a•y•'•N•o•v•e•m•b•e•r•2•'•1•9•8•3-•p•a•g•e-7
Bloom County Berke Breathed 




Fate Photius 





Mellish Dave & Dave 


ACROSS 30 Neck parts 1 Replacement 35 Shade tree fora union 36 "-of Me"

The Daily CJrossword 
striker 37 Had aspira· 

5 Bifurcates tions 10 Farm unit 38 Bird of 14 Stoma song 15 Think the 42 Involve 

world of 43 Salary 16 Horse of 44 "To-is old TV human" 17 US native: 45 Detroit's 
abbr. Della 18 Cronus, e.g. 46 Murphy, 19 UMW word for one 20 Gotham's 47 Borgnine 
heroes role 23 A Linden 49 Trevino 24 Half a fly 51 Picnic 25 Impudent crasher 28 Shriner's 52 Sideshow 
headpiece performer 

Tuesday's Solution 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
1112/83 11/2183 

60 "Thereby 26 Unaided 
hangs a-" 27 Hit, Bible· 61 Not live style 62 "Heroides" 28 Ziegfeld 
author 29 Flee to wed 64 Sale 31 Curve 
stipulation 32 Stud, e.g. 65 Eaten away 33 Turn inside 66 Furbish out 
anew 34 Crowd 67 Location together, 68 Passover old style 
meal 36 Tool 69 Place for 37 Trenchcoat a patella wearer 39 "-Rhein· 
DOWN gold" 1 Resort 40 Word on a 2 Toothed triangular 
groomer sign 3 Surface 41 June 4 Rankings celebrant 5 Deadly 46 Warning! 6 Norsegod 47 L·Pgo· 7 Church betweens 
tribunal 48 "Men-" 8 "Scruples" 50 Colorado author park 9 Excites 51 Birch tree 10 Magazine 52 Deps. 
contents 53 Stinger 11 Baby bed 54 Mishmash 12 Guidothe 55 Part of 
painter Rand R 13 Elysium 56 Two peas 21 Month in­22 Item on a 57-majesty 
French 58 50·50 budget 59 Harass 25 Seamstress 63 Deer 

Campus 
•I2:05 
p.m. -Black Studies Colloquium, "Minorities in the Media," Tom Beaver, I22 Hayes· Healy •I2:30p.m.-SlideShow,"SpaceWeapon's-The Next Arms Race," Center for Social Concerns, Free 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Wavenumber Analysis of the Visualized Turbulent Flowfields," Prof. Thomas 

C. 
Corke, 356 Fitzpatrick 

•4 
p.m. -Kellogg Institute Lecture, "The Church in C t hile," Rev. Timothy Scully, II02 Memorial Library 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Intrinsic Reflection Asymmetry in Nuclei," Dr. Georg Lean· der, 118NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Gene Ex· pression DuringDrosopbila Oogenisis," Dr. Gail L Waring, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•5:30 
p.m -Putnam Mathematics Competi­tion Practice, 300 Math Building 

•6:30 
p.m. -Colle~e Republican Meeting, 204 O'Shaughnessy 

•7, 
and 9:45p.m.-FUm, "Say Amen Somebody," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Black Studies, Free 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -FUm, "Dirty Harry," Engineer· ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Hawaii Club, SI 

•7:30 
p.m. -GLASA Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•7:30 
p.m . ...,..-Question/Answer Session, U.S. Immigration Regulations, Rev. T. Tallarida, LaFortune Little Theatre, Sponsored by ISO, 

•8 
p.m. -Theology Lecture, "Salvation Through Imagination," Prof. Bernard Cooke, Library Auditorium 



TV Tonight 
22 Whiz Kids 
28 Fall Guy 

34 The Chemical People 
9p.m. 16 Facts of Life 

22 Wednesday Night Movie 
28 Dynasty 
9:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 
10p.m. 16 St. Elsewhere 
28 Hotel 

34 Everest North Wall 

Far Side 
no one ever heard from the Anderson brothers again. 

(,-------------------~
Penn State Lottery l Wednesday Night 
I Sign Ups I 
BEER SPECIAL 



I TODAY!! I 
1 at O'Bud information booth 
I 


1 
1st Floor Lafortune. 1 Cash Drawing Sign up for I Bring 1 or 2 J.D.'s I is still increasing Airband Contest I (List of winners will ll•e posted outside Student Union Record • Tonight it's worth $45! at Senior Bar 
\ Store on November 3. Tickets may be purchased then.) I 

~-----------------~-~ 
Wednesday, November 2, 1983-page 8



Sports 

<>bsc:rvcr Photo/Paul 
Sophomore Chris Telk takes aim at the soccer ball while trying to outrun his Grace opponent to the kick. In the team effort, Notre Dame outran 
Panthers seek revenge against Notre Dame 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 

Hello again, everybody! 
Two weeks ago, the Irish looked for and received revenge over USC for last year's debacle at the Coliseum. This week Gerry faust and Co. find themselves on the other side of that coin, as they must face a team seeking revenge from last fall -· the Pitt Panthers. Some people may think that situation may give an t·dge to Pittsburgh when they enter Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday. Mayht· so. but the Irish know they must win to go to a major bowl game:: -and that should he enough incentive for everyone. 
Tum On n.e Lights .. .In case you haven't ht·ard, you can change your tailgating plans next week. CBS has decided to televise the Pitt game, and kickoff has been delayed to 3:45 p.m., which means you'll have to pace yourselves on Green Field. It also means the Musco Lighting Company will be on hand to shed some light on the situation. The Irish have compiled a I-1 ledger under the Musco lights, and a dismal 0-2 mark on CBS. Hopefully, both records will improve on Saturday. 
Another "One" Bites The Dust ...While Notre Dame basket­
Defeats Grace 2-1 


Soccer team ends its home season 
By PHIL WOLF Notre Dame's freshman goalkeeper, the players on the field. "We need a 
Sports Writer Jim Flynn, who had little chance to dominant leader playing in the 
prevent the goal. game, he commented. 
The Notre Dame soccer team Forward Rich Herdegen scored 
finished its home season yesterday the game winner with 9:57 remain­IRISH ITEMS ... During break, the 
by defeating Grace, 2-1. ing. Tom Daley set up the play with a soccer team travelled east to play 
The Irish had already beaten high pass into the Grace penalty three games. On Sunday, October 
Gral·c, 4-1. in preseason play this area, which Chris Telk volleyed to 23, the Irish defeated Wilkes, 1-0, as 
year, and the opposing players wert· Herdegen. Herdegen headed the Rich Herdegen scored with an assist 
obviously hoping to turn the tables ball and then volleyed it into the net. from Ted Schwartz. Notre Dame 
in this game. They came out playing Hcrdegen's goal came just two outshot Wilkes, 28-3 ... Two days 
hard. while the Irish seemed slug­minutes after he headed a ball past later, Notre Dame downed Mon­
gish for most of the first half. Innes which was deflected off the mouth, 4-2, in what Hunter called 
About 30 minutes into the game, goalpost. "the most physical game of the 
however, the Irish began to control Notre Dame outshot Grace, 19-9, season. Schwartz assisted Herdegen 
the tempo of the game, and and Flynn made seven saves, while and Joe Howe on goals 29 seconds 
generated some good scoring op­Innes was forced to make I I. apart, just six minutes into the game. 
portunities. Despite the victory, Head Coach Tom Daley scored on a free kick, and 
With I:25 remaining in the first Rich Hunter said he was concerned Ken Harkenridcr scored off Hcr­
period, halfback Tom Daley gave about the way the Irish played. degen's assist. The Irish peppered 
Notre Dame a one-goal advantage. "We looked a little flat until that the Monmouth goal with 28 shots, 
which the Irish held at halftime. second goal," he said. "It's a shame it while Monmouth managed only 
Daley pounded a free kick from 25 has to happen that way. five ... On Thursday, October 27, 
yards out off the fingertips of Grace the Irish played at Stockton State and 
goalkeeper Dave Innes for the score. Hunter was particularly upset lost, 1-0. The game, however, was 
Grace came on strong again in the about the play ofhis midfielders. nullified when it was learned that 
second half and tied the game with "Our midfielders just don't tackle, Stockton's goalkeper, Ed Dumont, 
22:01-! remaining. he said. "They are afraid to throw had left school and is therefore an 
The ball was loose just outside tht· their bodies in there. They also do a inelligible player . . . The Irish, 
Irish penalty area when Grace's Jim lot oflittle things that arc dumb. whose season record now stands at 
Cambell gained control of the ball Hunter feels that one thing that 17-4 will play their final regular 
and passed to tcamate Johnny would help the Irish is more ex­season game this afternoon at Val­
Brandt. Brandt drilled a shot past perienced upperclassmen to lead paraiso. 
SMC season over 

Belles are no match for the Irish 
By MIKE SULLIVAN formance," said Goralski, who com­put the Belles on the scoreboard. It Sports Editor pleted his first season as coach ofthe never got closer than 14-4 before Belles last night. "The players kept a Mary McLaughlin iced the game 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team good attitude through the match with a shot off a set by Mollie Mer­
has a new coach and a new look, and even though they had to play a much chant. 
is improved over last year. However, bigger school like Notre Dame." It was in the second game that 
it has not improved to the point Irish coach Sandy Vanslager was things got interesting. Led by the ex­
where it can keep up with a more pleased with her team's perfor­cellent play of Sapp, Notre Dame 
talented Notre Dame squad. The mance as well. "The enthusiasm was slowly moved out to a 7-3 lead 
Irish, at times playing as well as they t there, the concentration was there, before Goralski called a timeout. Af­
have all year, had a fairly easy time of and the passing was there," she said. ter the timeout, though, Saint Mary's 
it as they dcfeatt·d the Belles in three "All that we've been working on all fought back, finally moving ahead of 
straight, I 5-5, I '5-I 0, and I'5-6, last year just seemed to dick tonight." the Irish on a block by Ann Boulton. 
night in the ACC Pit. It did not take long for Notre Before the charge was over, the 
Notre Dame, whk·h competes in Dame to start "clicking." Saint Belles had a I0-7 lead. Division I, was just too much for Mary's opened the match with the That was the last time that Saint Saint Mary's, an NAJA team. Two serve, but freshman Karen Sapp Mary's was in the match. Led by the 
years ago, tht· Bdles could give thdr showed the visitors that they were excellent net play of Sapp, Notre opponents from across the street a in for a long night as she sent a spike Dame quickly regained the lead, very hard time, but scholarships flying through the Belles. Not much never to trail again for the rest ofthe have made a big difference, and this match. When the Belles were called
later, she blocked a Saint Mary's shot ditfnence in kvd of talent was ob­for a point, and then scored on a kill. for an illegal contact with the ball, vious from tht· first serve of the Quickly, the Irish were ahead 6-0. the Irish had stopped the last Saint match. Nevt-rthelcss, both coaches, The Irish stretched out their lead Mary's threat ofthe night. 
including Brian Goralski of Saint in a very workmanlike fashion. They The string of consecutive Notre Mary's, were happy with the way covered every Saint Mary's shot and 
see IRISH, page 6
thing1> went. ran their offense as well as ever. It ''I'm pleased with the team's per-was 12-0 before Ann Brown finally 
ball mentor Digger Phelps is the main coach associated with knock­
ing off number-one teams, Gerry Faust took over that role last year 
when the Irish upset top-ranked Pitt, 31-16. In that game, the Irish 
trailed 13-10 entering the fourth quarter, but offensive coordinator 
Tom Lichtenberg dusted off the playbook and found the ol' flea­
flicker play. Blair Kicl took a pitch from Phil Cart~r and delivered the 
ball to a wide-open Joe Howard for a 54-yard touchdown to give the 
Irish a 17-I 3 lead. 
The Panthers drove right back with a field goal and were driving to 
regain the lead, butJohn Mosely recovered a fumble on the Irish 24. 
One play later, Allen Pinkett raced into instant stardom when he 
broke several tackles on his way to a 76-yard touchdown run. Pinket< 
would later add another touchdown on his way to a 112-yard day, as 
the Irish added another page to their incredible history. 
In the Pitts ...Many "experts" predicted Serafino "Fogc" Fazio would have to suffer through a rebuilding year at Pittsburgh this year after losing Heisman Trophy candidate Dan Marino to the pros, but the Panthers have found more talent to lead them to a 6-2 record. Freshman quarterback John Congemi spearheads the Pitt attack. which travels mainly through the air. He has two excellent receivers in All-American flanker Dwight Collins and split end Bill Wallace. Collins will be looking to enter the Pittsburgh record book on Satur­day, as he needs one more touchdown grab to set a Panther record with 24, and he needs 57 receiving yards to break Gordon Jones' mark of 2,2 30. 
When the Panthers decide to run, they have a formidable line to 
open the holes, led by 6-5, 270-pound All-American tackle Bill Fralic. 
According to Navy coach Gary Tranquill, Fralic may be the best 
lineman in the country, and few opponents would argue with that 
evaluation. The Panthers rely on a variety of running backs, led by 
fullback Marc Bailey ( 63 for 366 yards and three TO's). 
Defensively, the Panthers have been tough. Senior defensive end 
leads the team in sacks, and is joined on the front line by outstanding 
tackle Bill Maas. Free safety Tom Flynn anchors the Pitt secondary, 
which has suffered at times this season. However, when you note 
that the Panthers have allowed a meager I 1.3 points a game, you 
know the Irish have their work cut out for them. 
Game Plan .. .Ifyou have followed the Irish at all, you know they need a big game out of tailback Allen Pinkett. Pinkett has compiled five consecutive I00-yard games, and needs I02 yards on Saturday to become only the third running hack in Irish history to gain more than 1000 yards on the ground in a season. And while the Pitt line is good, offensive line coach Carl Selmer can say the same about the Irish offensive front. Pinkett has had some gaping holes to run through, thanks in large to the efforts of Larry Williams, Neil Maune, and the rest of the Irish line. 
The passing game has gradually improved for the Irish, as quarter­back Steve Beuerlein has found a plethora ofreceivers at his disposal. Split end joe Howard leads the youthful receiving corps in catches, and is complemented by sophomores Mark Bavaro and MiltJackson. Watch for any or all of these players to take part in a couple of trick plays on Saturday, as Faust and offensive coordinator Ron Hudson have shown a willingness to gamble on offense this year. 
Defensively, the Irish rank third in the country, allowing op­
ponents only 253 yards per game. Middle linebacker Tony Furjanic 
leads Notre Dame in tackles with I00, and the Irish defensive line 
(which I chastised earlier in the year) has come alive, picking up 
seven sacks last week against Navy. Tackle Mike Gann leads the 
"Gold Rush" with five sacks. This group will need to put in one of 
their best performances of the year on Saturday if the Irish arc to 
keep the Pitt passing attack grounded. 
Pick of the Week ...As the fall sports season winds to a close, many of your Irish squads are closing on the road. But, fear not, because one team will be at home this weekend -the Irish vol­leyball team of Coach Sandy Vanslager. Admittedly, it has been a rough season for the Irish spikers, who have lost more than their share of dose matches. However, the matches are exciting and the team would appreciate your support on either Saturday morning when they host DePaul at 10:30, orSunday morning when Evansville invades the auxiliary gymnasium of the Athletic and Convocation Center for an 11:00 start. Come on out and join the fun in the "Pit" this weekend. 




