--------------------~-.~------------------~----------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
• • . Amendments-page 3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 97 the independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1983 
By LESLIEANNE WADE 
News Staff 
Public health officials have dis­covered that 66 percent of the American students and 88 percent of the foreign students at Notre Dame lack proper immunizations. 
This was learned after officials ex­amined the health records of 9,000 students following recent outbreaks of measles and rubella on college campuses across the country. 
Dr. James E. Bowes, public health officer of St. Joseph County, has joined members of the Notre Dame Student Health Service in investigat­ing the records. 
Within the past 10 years it has been ruled that all children entering kindergarten must be immunized. According to Bowes,"The students who are in college now just slipped by." 
The most recent outbreak in the area occurred two weeks ago at Purdue University. Since then 5,400 students have been immunized. "But that was after the fact," Bowes comments, "We want to immunize our students before an outbreak." 
Other such outbreaks have oc­
curred at Texas's Baylor College, 
and both Ferris College and 
Kalamazoo College in Michigan. 
Bowes has been following this 
problem for two years and decided 
to take action before the outbreak at 
Purdue occurred. He began working 
with the Student Health Service six 
weeks ago. "I predicted this long 
before Purdue." 
As of today, he has gone through 3,000 health records. One thousand letters ofinvitation have gone out to students who have not been im­mmunized or have no record of im­munization. "Ifastudent has proofof immunization, we encourage him or her to come in and allow us to update our records," he said. 
The Student Health Service has 
ND students lacking proper immunizations 
purchased the immunization supplies and will charge students at cost. The cost will range from $3 to $12 depending on the number of shots given. He reminds students that the letters they will receive this week do not require that they be im­munized. It is merely a preventative action that is strongly encouraged. 
Bowes has also contacted the health service at Saint Mary's. "Mrs. Wood, who is in charge of Saint Mary's Health Services, will be checking her students' records and we will assist her in any we can." 
The goal of University health offi· cials is to immunize all students necessary by spring break. Bowes says,"When they leave campus they will be in contact with younger brothers and sisters and other pos­sible carriers. We want to protect thetp_before they leave for break. 
Any student with questions is en­couraged to contact Bowes at 284­9573. 

Planner resident Kurt Shinn dives for a wide  sports  possible yesterday.  (Photo  by  Hamil  
toss in one ofthe first baseball games ofthe year. Unseasonably warm temperatures made such  Cupero).  


Still pledges refunds 


Kernan trial delayed, action pending 
By MARKWORSCHEH In addition, Kernan promoted a AssistantNews Editor Charlie Daniels concert and a Pat Travers-Uriah Heep concert last fall, 
River City Records Inc. President both ofwhich were cancelled. Many Peter J. Kernan yesterday was of the ticket holders to these shows granted a postponement until March are also due refunds. 14 in his trial on six bad check Yesterday's trial, postponed from charges totalling almost $7800. Jan. 6, involved six counts of 
Kernan, who is currently under deceptive issuance ofa check, a class investigation by the consumer A misdemeanor. Attorney Joseph protection division of the Indiana Simeri,who is representing Kernan, Attorney General's office, reported­requested the delay yesterday morn­ly owes money to a number ofNotre ing. It was granted by Judge Jeanne Dame and Saint Mary's students who Schwartz, presiding over the traffic paid $49 each for bus packages to and misdemeanor division of Supe­Who concerts last November and rior Court. December in Chicago. Both concert Simeri refused to comment on the trips were cancelled within two reason for the delay, saying it was a days ofthe show. "pending matter." 
One offour vice-presidents 

Frick announces resignation 
James W. Frick, vice-president for public relations, alumni affairs and development at Notre Dame since 1965, will relinquish that post September 1, it was an­nounced Saturday by Father Theodore M. Hesbmgh, University president, at a meeting of the executive committee ofthe Board ofTrustees. 
Frick, 58, was the first lay person to become an of­
ficer of Notre Dame. He was the architect of fund­
raising campaigns that raised more than $300 million 
for the University; he will continue to serve Notre 
Dame as a consultant. 
"Jim Frick took over a 
fledgling development 
operation and turned it in­to an organization that now ranks among the top 25 in the nation in fund­nusmg success," com­mented Hesburgh. "It will be difficult, if not impos­sible to replace him. Few individuals have left the University more in their 


debt than he, and few have had a more decisive and widespread effect on the history and development of Notre Dame." 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1951, Frick became the first member of the University's ad­ministration to engage exclusively in development work. He was appointed director of development in 1961 and was elected vice president in 1965. 
His career at Notre Dame encompasses four major fund-raising campaigns, three of them carried out in succession between 1960 and 1972 -at the time an unprecedented feat in American higher education. 
These efforts, combined with the "Campaign for Notre Dame" (1975-1981) and subsequent gifts and committments from alumni, parents, corporations and foundations have amounted to more than $300 million. 
Notre Dame's endowment at market value has gone from S9 million to more than $200 million during his tenure, and 40 buildings have been constructed on campus. 
One of four functional vice-presidents, Frick has overseen programs and personnel in six departments: information services, special projects, development, the Notre Dame alumni association, printing and publications, and Notre Dame Magazine. He is an of­ficer ofthe Board ofTrustees and a member ofseveral key University committees. In 1972, he received his doctorate in educational administration from Notre Dame. 
He has long been active in community endeavors; particularly in the United Way and local economic development planning. He has held leadership posi­tions in the National Urban Coalition, the United Negro College Fund and the American Heart Associa­tion. 

Dennis Cantrell, a member of me consumer division staff, said yester­day that the state's investigaton of Kernan is continuing. Cantrell said that another member of the staff, Michael Mington, is is handling the case, but he was not available for comment. 
The last remaining River City Records store closed on Dec. 22 of last year. On that date, Lt. Joseph Spybrook of the St. Joseph County Police's civil division confiscated the store's inventory and equipment for failure to pay sales and withhold­ing taxes. The merchandise was auc­tioned at a sheriffs sale, he said. 
Kernan has pledged to refund money to ticket holders. He said in a recent interview that he has notified everyone involved that he is still in town and is still attempting to find a loan. He said that refunding "has taken longer than I anticipated," and he could provide no timetable for repayment. 
Notre Dame student Bob Prew said last night that Kernan had called him about three weeks ago. "He ex­plained that his stores were closed and that he had a lot of lawsuits against him, but that he had every in­tention of paying it back. He didn't say when," said Prew, who had purchased one of the S49 bus packages. "Personally, I don't think he'll come through. I got over my loss in December. I don't anticipate recovering anything," commented the Stanford Hall sophomore. 
Meanwhile, The Observer has learned of numerous civil suits which have been entered against River City Records. 

In early 1981, a judgment "in excess of S25,000" was awarded in favor of SoundVideo Unlimited of Niles, Ill., a wholesale record sup­plier. According to Andy Cavallaro, a financial officer with the firm, the 
see KERNAN, pageS 

Alternative housing posed in PACE report 
By SUSAN O'HARA 
News Staff 
In an effort to relieve overcrowd­ing in some ofthe older dormitories on campus and provide alternative housing arrangements for selected seniors and male graduate students the PACE report (Priorities and Commitments for Excellence) has recommended townhouse com­plexes be considered as a possibility for selected seniors and graduate male students within the next ten 
years. 

Father Michael Heppen CSC, director ofstudent residences favors "alternative living arrangements for graduate males," but sees "no reason to construct dormitories which would constitute a different style of living among undergraduates." Hep-pen also notes that if townhouse complexes were to. be constructed the rent would not be a savings be­cause the cost of financing such an undertaking would be great. Overall Heppen feels there is adequate housing available in the immediate 

-
Notre Dame environment tor those desiring accomodations off-campus and adds that building townhouse complexes for undergraduate seniors would be unnecessary com­petition for surrounding apartment complexes. 
Greg Miller, a member of the Stu­dent Senate subcommittee review-
see HOUSING, page 4 





ews Brie!J 
Hy The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Notre Dame Foreign Studies program 
is sponsoring an open house on Thurs., Feb. 1 7 from 4:30p.m. umi16 
p.m. at their offices in the Administration Building. According to Assistant Provost Isabel Charles, director of the Foreign Studies Program, the purpose ofthe open house is to introduce students and faculty to the new foreign studies offices in rooms 420 and 423 ofthe Administra_tion Building. -Observer 
Theresa Tull, director ofthe office of human 
rights in the Department of State. will discuss "The Human Rights Policy of the ~eagan Administration" at 8 p.m. Thursday in Carroll Hall at Saim Mary's. The lecture, sponsored by Saint Mary's history department, is free and open to the public. A member ofthe Foreign Service since 1963, Ms. Tull joined the Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs in July, 1980. The office she directs monitors human rights developments in Asia, Africa, the Middle East, Europe 
and Latin America. -The Observer 
A "Bread Not Bombs" Ash Wednesday prayer service will be held at 3:30p.m. tomorrow in Sacred Heart Church. The service. which takes its title from a similar event held last year on the steps of Notre Dame's Administration Building, will include scripture readings, silent prayer and liturgical music. It will con­clude with a symbolic breaking and sharing ofbread, illustratitng the participants' commitment to redirect military spending towards food, clothing and shelter for the world's destitute people. -The Observer 
The Justice Department obtained a court­supervised agreement yesterday requiring Aluminum Company of America (Alcoa) to clean up a hazardous-waste disposal sitre near Olney, Ill., at an estimated cost of Sl.5 million. The 3.25-acre dis­posal site, once operated by A&F materials Co., is now inactive but more than 1.8-million gallons of waste oil and sludge were shipped there by Alcoa from 1975 through 1977. High levds of polychlorinated biphenyls ( PCBs ), which are thought to cause can­cers in humans, have been found at the site. At the same time, the Justice Department amended an existing lawsuit to cover another waste-disposal site in Greenup, Ill., which was also operated by A&F 
materials Co. -AP 
They came by the thousands, some with 
sleeping bags to fend offthe cold. They were all dreaming ofstardom on the London stage, but only 96 will make it. In the biggest audition turnout ever for a West End show, more than 10,000 stage-struck children packed into the Olympia exhibition center Sunday hoping for a part in the stage version ofthe film "Bugsy Malone." 300 people were asked to return for a second audition. But only 96 boys and girls will portray 1920s American gangsters and molls when the show opens at Her Majesty's Theater on May 26. "This is without doubt the biggest audition ever held," said co-producer Martin Gates, who had expected about 4,000 applicants. American director Michael Dolenz, a former member of the 1960s pop group The Monkees, said interest in the auditions "has been overwhelming. The talent was staggering. I would have liked to hire the lot." -AP 
Women won four out offive nominations for 
the best new fiction in this year's American Book Awards competi­
tion, awards officials announced yesterday. In hardcover fiction, the 
nominated books are "A mother and Two Daughters," by Gail God­
win; "Shiloh and Other Stories," by Bobbie Ann Mason; "Dinner at 
the Homesick Restaurant," by Anne Tyler; "The Color Purple," by 
Alice Walker, and "The Mosquito Coast," by Paul Theroux. Since the 
American Book Awards competition began in 1980, 13 of the pre­
vious 15 nominees for hardcover fiction have been men. '"'Vinners 
will be announced April 14 and the awards, each consisting of a 
Louise Nevelson sculpture and S 1 ,000, will be presented Aprit128. ­
AP 
Partly sunny and warm today with the high in the mid 40s. Cloudy and mild tonight with the low in the upper 20s. A c~ance oflight snow or rain tomorrow. Cooler with the high in the m1d 30s. -AP 
Tuesday, February I 5, 1983 -page 2 
Warn1 dreams and cold realities 


MIAMI -Imagine if the world was Miami. To some, Miami conjures up images of race riots, shiftless im­migrants, and denizens ofdope dealers. 
Despite the reams of bad press it has received, Miami is a frontier town. Miami puts the gunfights of the Old West to shame. The Miami Herald routinely buries murder stories on back pages because they are so com­
-monplace. 
If America is a melting pot, Miami is the fire. Unlike northern cities, numerous ethnic groups are vying for a share. No group has had more of an effect than the Cubans. When Fidel Castro came to power, thousands literally swam north. Many ofthese were the wealthy ­those with the most to lose from comradeship. Since then, they have positioned themselves solidly in the upper-middle class. 
At shopping malls, the: high ticket stores have a dis­tinctly Latin flavor to them. This affluent life is in stark contrast to the popular northern image of the crime­prone Cuban. When Castro ~ -----:-~ '>(~ sent thousands of his inrcor-'-~~ -("0 · rigibles boating, the I , ~ \)-.\ welcome dock was not out. Those already in Miami were ill-inclined to funher divying up the pie. Fur­thermore, they didn't like the bad press all Cubans were getting because of the deeds ofa few. The situation was akin to an Oakie parad­ing into the Beverly Wil­shire. 
Just when the flood of Cubans slackened, the Ilow of Haitians gushed. Their home country is one of the world's poorest; the govern­ment one of the worst. The country is in such chaos that people starve,while being buried in some ofthe world's most fertile soil. 
Thus, as it was to so many earlier generations, America glistened with presumed hope. Unfortunately, the gleam is limited to those on whom it chooses to shine. Haitians with liitle hope are bunched into caldrons ofdespair. 
A few months ago, the· spectacle ofan urban riot was shown on American telt:vision. Since the massive con­flagrations ofthe 60s there have been few riots-most in Miami. Like the Haitians, destitute blacks are grouped into hopeless deserts. The shooting of a teen by a Hispanic cop sparked days ofviolence. Sadly, those who suffer most are the rioters, who destroy their own homes. 
From the air, south Florida resembles a multitude of green sponges barely afloat. Besides soaking up the warm Atlantic, the area is soaking up the economic lifeblood of the North. With the ready stock of willing 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION
-----The.Observer 
PRESENTS 
Le Mardi Gras!!! 
SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor 
Inside Tuesday 
workers, lack of unions and favorable tax climate, Miami is a booming business haven. Some would say that the conditions here that encourage free enterprise are a bit too favorable. 
The highest peaks of the terrain are the tacky tourist resorts of Miami Beach. Most of the land is not land at all, but a murky swamp. The booming economy has given rise to unscrupulous developers who dredge out natural habitats and use the muck to build up land for subdivisions. More and more the critters you associate 
6..,.. with south Florida -the al­ligators, opossums and strange birds -are being chased away. But not all the vermin are gone. 
Miami International Air­port is a living museum of aviation. Rows of antiquated pilots talk vaguely ofhauling flowers and cattle. In reality, these geezers spend their working hours flying low and undetected. 
Miami's business district is teeming with small banks. Tellers speak laughingly of the daily horrors of the "Hector Gonzaleses" spanish for "John Does" -. who deposit large sums of unmarked cash. 
However, Miami's weather compensates for many of its social ills. While parts ofAmerica are inundated with combinations of slush, mush, mud, muck and snow, winter in Miami means 70 degree temperatures. For those whose idea offun is shuffleboard, such conditions are good for the bones. Each year thousands of elderly Americans move here to retire, and more importantly, to spend their money; catering to their needs has become big business. 
Miami is a place where the unscrupulous can make money -often legally. For others, it is another stop on their way out ofpoverty. For most, it is a warm place to live if you're not too concerned with the whole picture. Wasn't that what the Old West was all about? 
The Observer is always looking for new people. We need people in layout, production, news, sports, etc. Ifyou would like to get involved call239-5303 or just stop up and talk to one of us here. We're located on the third floor of LaFortune. 
TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
Round tnp motorcoach transportation VI:! modem highway coache5to Daytona Beach. Aonda leavin1 Friday, March II. 

• 
Seven nights accommodattons at the exciting Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach located at 600 North Atlanttc Ave., it ilthe most demanded hotel on the strip at that time. 

• 
A truly great schedul~ of activtties includin1 our famous pool deck parties and belly flop contest. 

• 
Optional excursions available to Disney World, Epcot, and sev~ral other auractions 

• 
Numerous bar and restaurant discounts. 

• 
The services of full11me travel repre!lentattvea. 

• 
All taxes and gratUtttcs. 

• 
Guaranteed ldtcheneue or oceanfront avaa.lable at small additional charge. (-4 per room only) 


Design Editor... . .......Tomas le Petit Design Assistant ........ Tomas le Sapp 
Layout Staff.............. ..... Ne personne Typesetters..... ....Jim et le lapin News Editor............. ...... Le flapper Copy Editor ... Dan le Mai B&TLayout ............. Un homme d'affaires 
Editorials Layout.... ....... Tim le Neely Sports Copy Editor... Un homme de sport 
MARCH 11 • 20, 1983 
Arr41ttementJ by 
ECHO TRA J'EL, INC. 
MCHl51lF N.D. 
SIX PER ROOM 



$185 
FOUR PER ROOM 


$199 

ND Day Editor... ....... Le Panfil 5MC Day Editor.. ........... LeBrun 
Typists ....................................... on qui Iappe Ad Design ...................... L"euch Photographer ................... Ham:ille Cupero GuestAppearances .. Alexander the Hun­
garian, 
Torn Le Mowle. 
Les Glees, 
Happy Hearts, 
Editor and the Editor-elect 

The Observer IUSPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by ttw students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame lnd1ana 45556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
A QUALITYTRIP-ALOWPRICE·A GREATTIME 
The Plua Hotel, locatea right in the middle of the strip, is defmitely the place to be durina spnng break. Ask anyone who has been to Daytona The hotel has a pool, bia party deck, restaurant, four bars, color TV. atr condtltoned rooms and plenty of activities. Pictures are a~ailable where you s1gn up. Our motor coaches are nothmg but the htghest quallty highway coa.:-hes. We also give you more extras withourtnp than anyone else. Don't blowitand1oon a lower quahty trip. LAST YEAR OJ'ER B,OOOPEOPLE ENJOYED THIS TRIP. 
SIGN UP NOW AT THE · TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.-FRI. 10 AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 
_T_h_e_O_h_se_r_v_er___________________________T_u_es_d--:ay, February 15, 1983 -page 3 

Beth McCahill andjeanMcKay are among class 
officer candidates gathering in LaFortune to dis­
cuss the rules for upcoming elections. The man-
Student government constitution 


Amendments proposed by Senate 
By TOM MOWLE 
StaffReporter 
The Student Union will no longer exist, if Student Body President Lloyd Burke gets his way. 
One ofseveral amendments to the 
Student Government constitution 
proposed at last night's lame-duck 
session of the Student Senate would 
rename the Student Union the 
"Student Government Activities 
Board." Other amendments concern 
the composition of the Steering 
Committee, which sets the Student 
Union budget, and the scheduling of 
voting on initiatives. 
Burke said the change, which 
would effectively merge the Union 
with the Senate, would "integrate 
the Senate into planning what ac­
tivities occur on campus" and "give 
it more control over how money is 
spent." Pat Borchers, executive 
coordinator of the student govern­
ment, added the integration would 
help because "both are dipping out 
ofthe same trough." 
An additional benefit of the mer­
ger is the addition ofmore people to 
student government hy adding hall 
commissioners to committees un­
der the Activities Board. Steve 
Strake, student union director, ex­
pected this move to increase the 
number ofapplicants for board posi­
tions; there have been "only three or 
four this year." 
Another proposed amendment 
would replace one of the commis­
sioners on the Steering Committee 
with the student body president and 
add the director ofstudent activities 
to it as a non-voting member. This 
would involve more elected officials 
in the budget process. 
These and other amendments will 
be debated and voted upon at next 
week's meeting. 
Also at next week's meeting, the Senate will structure the new book exchange. The Senate unanimously passed the proposal to create it; the method of storing books between semesters and operating the ex­change will be decided later. The book exchange will now collect books at the end of each semester and sell them at the beginning ofthe next. 
The Senate continued its evalua­tion of the PACE report. The com­
mittee studying the section on teaching and research affirmed most of the recommendations, but added that the renovation ofdorms should not only be continued, but also ex­panded to include classroom build­ings. The committee supported improvements in t.he computer science area, encouraged coopera­tion between colleges "to provide more flexibility in requirements for double major and major-minor stu­dents," and agreed that enrollment quotas for each college would not be productive. 
Associate Provost Father Edward 
A. Malloy wrote to Burke suggesting the student body president, in the future, submit a name to him for ap­pointment as the undergraduate stu­dent representative on the Budget Priorities Committee. Burke remarked that this offer will give the Senate a greater chance to "have an 
impact on the process" of ad­
ministration. 
Burke sent a letter to Vice­President for Student Affairs Father John Van Wolvlear, suggesting that the remaining seats from the old fieldhouse be used as benches around campus when the building is razed next month. 
Concerning the administration's threat of a housing lottery, Burke said the Senate is "putting together an informative program explaining off-campus life for those who may want to know." 
The deadline for submitting class officer platforms is Friday. Anyone who missed the meeting for can­didates last night should call Pat Bor­chers at 283-8434 orJohn Quinn at 283-1462 orO-B-U-D. 
The Clancy Brothers, a group of Irish folk singers, will perform at the Morris Civic Auditorium March 9. Tickets will be $5.50-$6.50. 

Free innoculations against measles at IU 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­Free innoculations against old­fashioned measles will be offered today through Friday on the Bloomington campus oflndiana Uni­versity after a dozen cases were reported in a recent 72-hour period, school officials announced yester­day. 
The temporary clinic will be open from 10 a.m. tv 4:30 p.m. for stu­dents, faculty and staff in solarium of the Indiana Memorial Union. 
Officials at the lU student Health Center are taking the precutionary measure on the recommendation of the State Board of Health. 
Nancy Tardy, director of the cen­ter, said the dozen cases constitute "an unusual incidence" of the disease. 
Dr. Robert W. Hongen, university physician, said old-fashioned measles generally lasts two weeks. 
Applications are now available for Student Government Judicial Coordinator, at the Student Government offices. 
Questions contact Kevin Stierer 
239·6778 
BEGINNER OR ADVANCED· Cost is about the same as a semester 1n a 
U.S. college: $3.189. Price includes tel round trip to Seville from New York. room. board. and tUition complete. Government grants and loans available for eligible students. 
Live w1th a Span1sh family. attend classes four hours a day. four days a week. tour months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (eQuivalent to 4 semesters­taught 1n U.S. colleges over a two year time span). Your Spanish studies will be enhanced by opportunities not available 1n a U.S. class­
room. Standardized tests show our students" language skills superior to students completing two year programs in U.S. Advanced courses also. 
Hurry, it takes a lot ol time to make all arrangements. SPRING SEMESTER-Feb. 1 ·June 1/FALLSEMESTER-Sept. 10· Dec. 22 each year FULLY ACCREDITED ·A program ol Trimly Christian College. 


SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
For full information-write to: 
2442 E. Collier S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 
Finance Club holds mock stock market 
ByTOMPACE 
News Staff 
Cash prizes of S50, $25, and SlO 
will be awarded to those students 
participating in the Notre Dame 
Finance Club's 1983 Mock Stock 
Market whose portfolios are the 
most valuable when the market 
closes on March 4. 
The Mock Stock Market, which began February 7, was set up to stim­ulate the interests of business stu­dents in the Stock Market. 
The competition has been divided into two categories; one is limited to business students and the other is open to other interested students. This is the Finance Club's way of ensuring fair competition. There will be prizes for both categories. 
The market is limited to stocks on the American Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. Also, a portfolio can be turned over just once daily, and Margins and Futures are not considered by the market to simplify things for those less familiar with the workings ofa stock market. 
Business major Scott McGowan, who is running the market along with Colleen Keller, considers the market "just a game to create inter­est in the stock market." McGowan does not believe that the "game" will actually familiarize people with the operations ofa stock market be­cause of the limitations of the market. 

During the course of the month, transaction slips will be available outside ofthe Management office for all those with portfolios. All transac­tions will be recorded at the end of the day and closing prices will be used for the transactions. 
Those people interested in par­ticipating in the Mock Stock Market still have the opportunity to buy into the market. A single no,ooo portfolio will cost all interested $2, while a $30,000 portfolio can be purchased for $5. 
Anyone wishing to purchase a portfolio can stop at the Hurley Hall lobby tomorrow, Thurs., or Fri. be­tween 11:15 a.m. and 1:15 p.m. to open their account. The use ofplay­money ensures a limited risk for those wishing to begin to learn. 
Class officer elections held at Saint Mary's 
ByANNE MONAS1YRSKI andJanet Saas, secretary. Campus Campaign Reporter The sophomore class officer runoff is between the ticket ofJulie 
The runoff election for the junior Harmon, president; Mary Sauer, and sophomore class officers at Saint vice-president; Theresa Hardy, Mary's is being held today from 9 treasurer;Janet Biegel, secretary and 
a.m. to 6 p.m. in dorm lobbies. the ticket of Anne Marie Kollman, 
The runoffin the junior class is be­president; Sheila flood, vice­tween the ticket of Cara Hageman, president; Gretchen Wroblewski, president; Michelle Lopez, vice­treasurer; and Kathi Hartweger, president; Mary Ann Potter, secretary. treasurer; Martha Jones, secretary A runoff was necessary because and the ticket of Michelle Manion, neither ticket received the 50 per­president; Maureen Karnatz, vice­cent plus one votes needed to president; Patty Nolan, treasurer; determine a winner. 
The liT Advantages 
Management Education for Technological Change 
Computer based management education for the Financial, Producing and Service Industries. 
A full-time faculty of professional educators experienced in real world applications. 
Unique MBA specializations in Information Resources Management and Industrial Management. 
MBA specializations in Finance, Marketing, Accounting and Human Resources Management. 
Downtown at 77 South Wacker and Main Campus 
at 31st and State. Part-time and full-time admissions. 
·~· -~ ~i:~;~~no;!l:~~;;;~;:~::: 
10 West 31 Street, Chicago,K 60616 312/567-5104
I 

liT an equal opportumty educator 
Please send more information on liT's MBA program to:
,-------------------------------------------, 
Name__________________________________________________ 
Street__________________________________________________ 
City _____________________________ State ______:______ 
Zip Dayt1me Phone _____________________________ 
L---·---~-----------------------------------~ 

The Observer Tuesday, February 15, 1983 -page 4 
Massive delays 
East cleans up after blizzard 
NEW YORK (AP) -Millions of Eastern city dwellc:rs struggled back to work yesterday through the residue of one of the nastiest bliz­zards in memory, with mounds of gray sludge blocking buses, stalling cars and delaying overcrowded commuter trains up to two hours. 
The death toll from the Blizzard of '83, which dumpc:d 2 to 3 feet of snow from North Carolina to New England on Friday and Saturday had climbed to 87, including the 24 dead and 9 missing and presumed dead in the sinking of a coal ship in rough seas 30 miles offViirginia 
But the Eastern Seaboard was spared an expected second dose of snow from another storm out of Dixie. After brushi:ng the East Coast with light snow or rain from the Carolinas to New Jersey, the storm swept out to sea bdow New York. 
In California, in the meantime, a Pacific storm churned powerful surf along the coast Sunday from San Diego to San Francisco, capsizing boats and killing at least three · people. 
The latest East Coast storm glazed highways with snow or freezing rain in North Carolina around Greensboro and an area north of Raleigh and sent beach-eroding waves pounding into the Outer Banks, shutting down four ferry operations. 


But to the north it was mainly cold, with subzero readings across New York and New England, where streets in many cities remained blocked with cars stuck in snow up to the door handles. 
Many people complained ofprice­gouging by tow truck operators. 
The New Jersey Division of Con­sumer Affairs said it had received 40 such calls by noon, with people complaining they had been charged as much as S I 00 to have their snow­bound cars towed offthe road. 
Baltimore police arrested more than I00 people for looting stores over the weekend. 
As another side-effect of the bliz­zard, the American Red Cross in Bal­timore faced a "critical shortage of blood," according to Pat Owens, a spokeswoman. 
She said that since Bloodmobiles were unable to operate over the weekend, an anticipated 900 units of 
blood were not collected. 

Traffic jams developed in downtown Philadelphia, where resi­dents largely ignored a plea from Mayor William Green to use public transportation and leave their cars at home. 
Many Philadelphia neighbor­hoods remained snowbound and Green asked nonessential city per­sonnel to take a vacation day. 
"it will be several days at least before the secondary streets are cleared," said Harry Zacher of Philadelphia's Division of Public Property. "We're still trying to get the primary streets cleared." 
New York was faring better, as far as getting streets at least partially cleared, but most six-lane highways had only four lanes open. 
However, rush hour traffic was about 30 percent lighter than usual, which averted "total chaos," as one official put it. 
On the rails, commuter trains were running late -some delayed up to two hours and others canceled outright. 
U.S. military base closings possible 
WASHiNGTON (AP) -A key 
defense official says the Pentagon 
may haul out a list of proposed base closings and challenge congressmen to bear some ofthe brunt "ifthe heat gets heavy'' for deep cuts in the military budget. 
The official, who discussed the matter only on condition he not be identified, denied threatening Congress. But his message, in a recent interview, obviously was designed as food for political thought on Capitol Hill. 
"We've got a list ofbases we'd like 
to get rid of," he said. At the same 
time, he made clear that the list 
could be left to gather dust if mem­
bers of the Senate and House don't 
delve too deeply into President 
Reagan's 5238.6 billion military 
spending program for fiscal I984. 
If they do, he suggested, they should be willing the share the sacrifices -including the risk of voter dismay over the loss of local facilities. 
The list includes some bases the 
Pentagon has been trying to close for nearly a decade, the official said. But he did not name any specific locations. "All we'd have to do would be to reach into the bottom drawer and pull out the list,''· he said. More than I8 months ago Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said the Pentagon planned to ask Congress for authority to close or realign some bases, but there never was a follow-up. 
Recalling his experience as budget director in the Nixon ad­ministration, Weinberger noted that base closings always run into strong resistance and delays as a result of congressional opposition. 
The last major effort to shut down excess bases was made nearly four years ago when the Carter ad­ministration's Pentagon leadership announced it would close or con­solidate opertions at I57 installa­tions at an estimated cost savings of $474 million a year. 
• • Housing
• 
continuedfrom page 1 Provost. Jones believes that "senior 
ing the PACE report and in year is a transition year and with the 
particular the section devoted to co-residential living arrangement 
Student Body feels the townhouses you would have the best of both 
for under-graduate seniors would worlds." In I975 Jones worked on 
be a positive move. "...it would the Malits Committee which "called 
provide an excellent alternative for for a thorough study of co­
the upper-classman who has grown educational housing and its possible 
beyond the confines of dormitory benefits fo_r Notre Dame stude~ts." 
t life but doesn't feel the difficulties in Although m the etght years smce 
living off-campus make that a 
worthwhile alternative." The sub­
committee goes further by suggest­
ing that the proposed townhouses 
for undergraduates be co­
educational. The subcommittee 
feels co-education is a "step towards 
the University recognizing that its 
students are capable of handling 
themselves in real world situations." 
Miller talked with Provost Timothy 
O'Meara about the subcommittee's proposal for co-ed dorms and said _O'Meara felt townhouses were pos­sible within the next ten years al­though he feels co-residential dormitories rather than co­educational dormitories are more feasible. Co-residential dormitories would be small complexes with a common living area, mailroom, laundry room and foodsales, but 
with separate male-female wings. 
The proposal for co-
educational/co-residential dorms 
also has the support of Sister John 
Miriam Jones, CS., assistant to the that report '_Vas issued !itt!~ has been 
done to achteve co-education, Jones "hopes that in the next ten years we'll have both living quarters for seniors and graduate males." 
On a less optimistic note Rev. John VanWolvlear, CSC., vice presi­dent of student affairs, feels co­education is a "false reality" and says "co-residential dorms already exist to and extent" since males and females are able to socialize many places on campus. But VanWolvlear does support townhouses for graduate male students noting, "townhouses introduce the graduate student to the real world." 
Erratum 

The photo on page 3 of yester­day's Observer was incorrectly cap­tioned. The performer shown at the Black Cultural Arts Festival Talent Night was Terry Cross, a freshman from Keenan Hall. 



The Observer 
Tuesday, February 15, 1983 -page 5 
Drug overdose 
Hinckley attempts suicide again 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presiden­tial assailant John W. Hinckley Jr. regained consciousness yesterday as authorities continued their quest over how he came by the chemicals that enabled his third apparent at­tempt at suicide since he has been in federal custody. 
Hinckley, 27,had been taking the anti-depressant drug imipramine. But Wayne Pines, a spokesman for the mental hospital where Hinckley had been held before his latest brush with death, said patients are supposed to be under the watch of attendants whenever they take medication. 
Hinckley was found semi­conscious Sunday on the floor of his room at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, where he had been confined since his acquittal by reason of insanity last June. Officials said he was close to dying. 
Since then, his condition has not permitted questioning about what he took or how he got it Pines said. 
He was -moved-tO intensivecare at Southeast Community Hospital, guarded by U.S. marshals and ob­served by psychiatrists. 
The episode marked Hinckley's third apparent suicide attempt since he was seized after shooting Presi­dent Reagan, White House Press Secretary James Brady, a Secret Service agent and a Washington policeman on March 30, 1981. 
The film "'Taxi Driver" was shown on a Washington television station Friday night, but Pines said Hinckley had not been permitted to watch it. 
Testimony in his trial brought out that Hinckley saw the movie 1 5 times, became obsessed with its star, Jodie Foster, and sought to kill Reagan as an expression of his in­fatuation with her. 
"He is able to talk, but according to the people caringfor him he is not saying much ofanything; he is being very quiet," said Debbie Carson­Gorman of Southeast Community 
Hospital. 
But he was recovering, she said. He was taken offa respirator, but still fed inraveneously. His condition was called stable. 
Officials speculated that Hinckley may secretly have saved up some of his medication and then taken an overdose. 
But Police Sgt. Henry Daly said he could have swallowed something else. 
"'You know, they have access to soap, shampoo, various creams and lotions -any of that stuff will make you sick," Daly said. 
Environmental Protection Agency 
'Whistleblower' gets protection 

WASHINGTON (AP) -In a surprise turnabout. the administra­tion reached a negotiated settle­ment yesterday with a whistleblower at the Environmental Protection Agency, who said after­ward he now has evidence that EPA misdeeds go all the way to the White House. 
Hugh Kaufman. whose allegations have triggered a half-dozen conges­sional investigations into EPA's $1.6 billion "superfund" program, called the settlement a victory both for him and for other agency employees who will be testifying before Congress in coming weeks. 
"Thi)o should send a signal to all EPA employees that they can get protection if they testify," Kaufman said. 
EPA attorneys would not com­ment on their surprise decision to settle with Kaufman. The agency's spokesman, Chris Rice, said EPA was preparing an answer to Kaufman's al­legations of White House involve­ment in the Kaufman case. 
The eight-point agreement came after three hours ofclosed-door dis­cussions. The EPA agreed to protect Kaufman's rights and Kaufman promised to reimburse the agency for personal long distance calls made at work. 
The settlement. in a case in which Kaufman had charged the EPA with harassing him because of his accusa­tions, comes amid a burgeoning scandal in which EPA administrator Anne Gorsuch has been accused of contempt of Congress and a top agency official has been fired. 
Kaufman originally said he ex­pected a full-blown hearing yester­day -with as many as 20 EPA officials staying that would provide further evidence of agency mismanagement of the superfund program to clean up the country's worst hazardous waste dumps. 
Instead, the government and Kaufman reached a settlement, and afterward the EPA employee said he would be turning over to Congress and the Justice Department evidence of a possible "criminal conspiracy" to silence him. 
Kaufman said his evidence shows 
th;H efforts to harass him began after 
the White House received com­
plaints on his activities from chemi­
c.\! companies. 
"The White House communicated complaints from polluters about me to the EPA, and the EPA took adverse action against me as a result of those communic· tions," he said. 
Kaufman said he did not have a 
"smoking gun" to prove the White 
House directed the EPA to illegally 
harass him, but he said "it was clear 
to the agency that the White House 
was unhappy." 
Kaufman did not name the offi­cials at the White House who transmitted the chemical company complaints, but he said presidential counselor "'Ed Meese and his deputy were at kita Lavelle's swearing-m 
continuedfrom page 1 

matter also involved checks written 
on insufficient funds. 

In addition, the former WRBR radio now WXMG -was awarded a sum last year from River City Records, but general manager Vince Ford was out of town and not available to discuss the matter. 
Several other claims have been filed against Kernan's firm, including a suit by Scott's One-Stop Records of Indianapolis seeking 523,061.72 in damages for six checks written from March 3-18, 1982, and returned marked ''NSF". No date has been set for the trial. 
Numerous claims have also been filed against River City Records in Small Claims Court. In a recent judg­ment from that court, S13-!.50 was awarded to Ben Atkins and Chris Gourley who sought a refund for seven tickets to the cancelled Charlie Daniels show. The decision was reached onJan. 28. and as ofyes­terday, Kernan had not responded to the court. An ofikial with the small claims office o;aid that the matter has been turned over to the county sheriffs office for collection. 
Tony Aiello, business manager of The Observer, also reported that River City Records owes over S I 000 to the newspaper for advertisements which were placed over the course and Meese held the Bible." 
Rita M. Lavelle, the head of the su­perfund program and Kaufman's boss was tired by President Reagan last week. 
of the last year. 
Throughout the financial problems of his firm, Kernan has consistently pointed to his record as both a successful record store owner and a concert promoter. Before the failure of the Who con­cert packages and the two local con­certs, Kernan said he was reponsible for bringing dozens of quality con­certs to South Bend. 
In addition, at the height of his career as a record retailer, Kernan said he operated five stores in the Michiana area. The first opened in Sept. I977, and the fifth opened in Aug. 1980. He said he was proud of the fact that his stores were able to stock both current albums and old­er, less popular ones. 
By Dec. I980, however, he said he was down to three stores. Another closed the following May, and his next-to-last store closed in Aug. 1982. 
"I thought the retail and local climate would improve, but they didn't," Kernan said. 
He attributed a part of the reason 

for his closing to the opening ofl;ni­
versity Park Mall. But for the firM 
time, he suggested that the Notre 
Dame Student Union was also a 
major factor in his demise. 
It was the opening of the SU record store that he said caused him 
Ihe~is currently accepting applications for the following positions .· 
Managing editor Business manager 
Applications are due in The Observer offices by 5 p.m. Monday, February 21. 
to lose a substantial amount of the student market. "I lost a huge poten­tial student trade to a Student Union store that could operate with little of the overhead a normal record store 
would have," he said. 

Kernan accused the store of "low ball pricing:" for charging students only a small percentage, ifanything, over wholesale cost. What he said bothered him was that he had made the SU "tens of thousands ofdollars" over the years through concert promotions, and then they "stabbed me in the back with their little 
record operation." 

Kernan said he has been "unhappy and bitter toward the Student Union since then." He recognizes, however, that Notre Dame students have benefitted from the lower record prices that the Sll store of­fers. "I have no problems with the average student," he said. 
Dr. James McDonnell, director of student activities, said that the relationship between the SC and and Kernan reached a low point a few vear~ ago when Kernan refused to al­
low any of the record stores in his ticket distribution network to sell Beatlemania tickets on behalf of the Sll. 
McDonnell said the order was a 
• • . Kernan 
"power play. He wanted to show the Student Union that they would haVl' 
McDonnell also said that on the night ofthe show at the Morris Civic Auditorium in downtown South Bend, Kernan was passing out dis­
to deal with him." Kernan defended his actions, saying that it was "only proper to protect the exclusive in­terest I had in the outlets." count coupons for River City Records and had to be asked to leave the lobby. Kernan admitted that the story was true, hut said the actions were "petty on their part. It was kind of cold, but I stood out there anyway, and there was nothing they could do." 
Animosity between the SU and 

Kernan also arose concerning Ker­nan's policy of charging a flat fee of !600 to handle Sll events. Other outlets only charged a percentage. if anything. according to McDonnell. The fee especially hurt the Sl1 three years ago when River City Records only sold S100 worth of tickets to the Country Rock jam. 
Kernan said the fee was sound 

business practice, and included the 
cost of compiling and distributing 
tickets to outlets as far away as Ben· 
ton Harbor and LaPorte. 
Kernan graduated from Notre 

Dame in 1975. 
. ..t:L 

''-· Metronolitan 
...~J "'-4,.. ~ ~­

Insurance rcompanies 
;~t:-~~­

Representatives of Metropolitan Lite Insurance Company's Group Insurance Company will be on campus Thursday, Feb. 24, 1983. We are looking for interested individuals who desire to become an Employee Benefit Marketing Representative, which is a salaried position in the Chicago Group Office, serving existing clients with primary emphasis on Marketing employee benefit programs to new clients through brokers and consultants. Formal classroom and on-the-job training. Starting salary commensurate with experience and educational background. This is a long-term career opportunity. Sign-up early on the Metropolitan Life· Chicago Group Office schedules, located at the Placement & Recruiting Office. We'll be glad to talk to you on Feb. 24th about a rewarding career~ 
Business & 'Technology_r_uesd......;.._ay,F_ebru---=--ary1__;__s,1;,...,:_983--!....pa~ge6
Science Update 
A 50-mile oil slick drifted down the Kentucky River today, cutting the water intake in half for this city of 200,000, while another river town closed schools and told residents to conserve water. The slick, a film of oil up to 15 feet wide, started late Friday after an oil well blowout at Oneida, Ky., when 65,000 gallons of crude oil spilled into a tributary of the Kentucky River. Kentucky­American Corp., which runs Lexington's water system, shut down its intake valves and switched to a backup system half as large as a precaution. Gordon Nichols, ofthe state office ofDisaster and Emer­gency Services, said the action cut Lexington's water capacity from 24 million gallons to 10 million gallons as the slick drifted by. It was expected to clear Lexington today as it moved toward Nicholasville, Lancaster, Harrodsburg, Lawrenceburg, Versailles and Frankfort, Nichols said. -AP 
Economic Update 
A bill to reduce the state excise tax on tuxury cars cleared the Indiana House Ways and Means Committee on yester­day. The measure, sponsored by Rep. William D. Soards, R­Indianapolis, was approved on a 13-4 vote and now goes to the full House. just last session, the Legislature approved a substantial in­crease in excise taxes for cars with a base price in excess of S15,000. The tax increase took effect jan. 1. Soards' bill changes the price classifications and lowers the maximum tax that can be charged for the most expensive cars. Class 10 currently covers cars with a base price of S12,500 but less than S1 5,000. The maximum tax for the first year is S400. Under Soards' bill, the tax would remain at $400, but Class 10 would include cars with a base price of less than 
S22,SOO. Class 11 now applies to cars with a base price of SIS,OOO but less than S25,000 and imposes a first-year tax of S600. The tax would remain the same, under Soards' bill, but it would apply to cars with a base price ofat least S22,SOO but less than 1130,000. This bill is designed to reduce the number of Indiana residents from buying their cars out-of-state. -AP 
Wall Street Update 
The stock market pushed ahead yesterday in a rally that carried the Dow jones industrial average to a record closing high. The long-standing average of 30 blue chips climbed 10.60 to 1,097.10, surpassing the closing peak of 1,092.35 it reached on jan. 
10. Trading was relatively quiet by recent standards, however. Analysts attributed the market's rise to hopes for a continuing im­provement in economic activity. Big Board volume totaled 72.64 million shares, down from 86.70 million in the previous session. The NYSE's composite index rose .71 to 85.89, a new high for the third consecutive session. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up 2.68 at 380.20, just shy of the record of 380.36 set on Aug. 13, 1981. -AP 
Century Center 
Ford struts its stuff at car show 

By ED KONRADY 
Associate B&T Editor 
The bright lights, spinning plat­forms of cars, and pressing crowds gave the impression of a Las Vegas showroom last weekend at the Ford Motor Company's extravaganza held at the South Bend Century Center. 
The highlight of the show was the redesigned Thunderbird. Once known as a luxury automobile, it det1ned its class as a leader in sales and buyer dedication. T-Birds, as they are affectionately known, are as treasured today as they were years ago. 
With the current economic situa­tions forcing people to spend less on their cars, Ford has come out with a 
smaller, sportier TBird. Rotating on the principle platform, with the Ford logo surrounded by tlashing lights and representitives barking out the T-Bird's accolades, the enthusiasm 
for  the  car  and the industry  as  a  
whole was evident.  
Representatives  were  very  

excited about the newest in the Ford line, the new Ford Tempo, which is to be released in May. "We believe these cars show Ford's design leadership in the industry -not "styling" as we thought ofit 20 years ago, said Ford representative Philip Caldwell, "but design based on aerodynamic~ and performance dynamics that will increase fuel economy and help improve han­dling, ride, and performance. These cars will give customers the oppor­tunity to enjoy driving automobiles that are not just 'boring boxes'." 
The new line of cars are selling well, according to other Ford representatives, and the remarks of the crowd seemed to confirm that. All were very impressed with the redesigning of the T-Bird. Not surprisingly, there were also huge groups of people around the Porsche exhibit andl the now­infamous DeLorean "gull-wing" car. 
The DeLorean is expected to become quite a collectors car as no new models are expected to be produced by the incarcerated automaker. Unlike the 1:rowds at the Ford models, the peoplle around the Porsche were just looking -not buying. But the Ford exhibits seemed to attract a lot of people who were genuinely interested in buying a car. 
This car exposition, especially the Ford exhibit, seemed intent on dissuading these worries by first sell-. ing the people on the economy, then the automotive industry, then Ford, and only then on the car itself. 
By the response of the buyers at the expo, the plan seemed to be working. 
Jbe Ford Motor Company shows offtheir new Thunderbird with a Las Ve~as-~ype setting, including the Ford logo irz blinking lights, a revolmng platform for the car, and earnivai barkersshouting the "T-Hird's" accolades. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
A vanti producing hand-assembled cars 
By DAN MCCULLOUGH 
StaffReporter 
"Quality is Job One" may be Ford's motto, but it's a reality for South Bend's own Avanti Motor Company. This offspring of the now­defunct Studebaker Company is now producing around 200 autos annually and plans to keep it that 
way. 
The Lafayette Street plant, now 120 years old, retains only 1 1 5 employees on a job-rotation basis. Every employee is trained in many job areas and management works side-by-side with the taborers using a "first-name" worker relationship. Every detail of the auto is assembled by hand, and this is a major selling point according to Bob Yonchak, a Notre Dame student who has recen­ly completed a detailed study of the company. There is no automation in­volved in the car's production. 
Unlike it's luxury-auto market competitors, Avanti does not have a large advertising budget, and instead depends upon the free publicity generated by newspaper and car buff magazine articles. They also do a lot oftheir promotion at the annual Chicago auto show and they have 1 5 dealerships throughout the U.S. 
The Avanti is a highly per­
sonalized automobile and dealers 
typically spend over two hours with 
each customer giving personal at­tention to such details as trim, color, equipment, exterior, as well as sun­roof colors and individually fitted posturepedic bucket seats. 

Stephen H. Blake, owner of the Avanti company is especially proud of the fact that there have been no fatalities in an Avanti since 1962. He atttributes this to such safety features as the steel roll-bar, the reinforced windshield frame, and the forward-positioned gas tank. 
A crew of four engineers and two test drivers check every car before it leaves the plant, besides the con­tinuous inspection during produc­tion. Each car is driven a minimum of 140-150 miles, and if anything 
seems  out  of  the  ordinary  it  is  
checked,  corrected,  and  then  
retested for another 50 miles.  

The body style of the A vanti has not been changed since 1962, when Studebaker was still produaing the car. After the company folded, Notre Dame alumnus Arnold Altman ('41) continued to use the plant to produce the Avanti. He recently sold the company to Blake for an es­timated five million dollars and they are currently going through a gradual transfer ofownership. 
The current price of the Avanti is $29,500. While there are no plans to change manager-worker relattions or production technique, they arc considering a convertible and a sedan model for the future. 
~-------~------------~---~----~ --~-~-~ 
Editorials 
Tuesday, February 15, 1983 -page 7 
Israel -through a glass clearly 
Illusions die slowly. The human psyche tends to hold onto old established truths and often resists and sublimates new or contradic­tory images. After all, it is much more difficult to deal with complex subtleties than with facile ilusions. In the area of American-Israeli 
Thomas Melsheimer 
Essay
I 

relations, the time has come for a degree of reevaluation. The time has come to anes­thesize, if not kill, age old illusions. 
Israel is a pillar of freedom and democracy in the Middle East. Its creation fulfilled a great moral mandate and Israel continues to exhibit and symbolize a sense of morality and justice. United States's support of Israel is the key to peace in the Middle East. That is the illusion. Th reality is more complex. Throughout its history, Israel has shown itself to be a conven­tional nation state concerned with protecting the security of is borders. But that justifiable concern for security has transformed itself in­to an aggresive paranoia and, as such, con­stitutes a roadblock to peace in the area. 
The United States stood by Israel after the massacre of Palestinian civilians by Phalangist soldiers last fall. "A terrible tragedy," it was said. "But after all, who would have known?" "What could be done?" Prime Minister Begin refused to accept any responsibility for the massacre, calling such accusations "blood libel." He initially oppoed any formal inves­tigation of the matter but intense world criticism dictated otherwise. Perhaps Begin believed tha simply setting up an inves­tigatory commission would be enough. After all, the resulting report would undoubtedly 
remove any onus of responsibility from Israeli shoulders. But a shameful version of the truth emerged from the commission's report. It posed the question, "What could be done?" and answered, "Plenty." 
While the commission of inquiry indicated that the Phalangists acted alone, it did not ab­solve israeli government officials from what it called "indirect responsibility." The biting irony of this term is only heightened by the echoes ofhe accused men a Nuremberg, men who claimed tha their responsibility was, at best, indirect. The commission goes on to single out nine Israeli officials for criticism. The heaviest criticism was directed at Defense Minister Sharon whom the commis­sion attacked for "blunders" and "grave mistakes." The commission called for Sham's immediate resignation. In less harsh tones, the commission also critized Prime Minister Begin for his indifference to the possible threat the Phalangist posed to the refugees. 
Morality and honor dictaed that Begin dis­solve his government immediately and resign his position. The American public forced a President to resign for his knowledge of a third rate burglary attempt. Begin's own countrymen have given him som e degree of "indirect responsibility" for the slaughter of several hundred men, women, and children. Yet he refused to either recognize his shame or act on it. In fact, Begin retains a solid resevoir of political support. Begin cold not even bring himself to dismiss Ariel Sharon. Sharon balked for about 48 hours before complying with the commission's request. As an ex-terrorist whose targets included women and children, Sharon's sense ofhonor has understandably atrophied. While his resignation is long overdue, it appears that he will retain some measure of influence in the Israeli government as a cabinet member with­out an official portfolio. His license for reck­lessness has been suspended, but not revoked. 
The U.S. State Department called the report "an internal Israeli matter." But how "internal" can a report be that levels varying degrees of responsibility for murder on top government officials? And yet the report reveals, in a sense, nothing new about the Is­raeli government. Begin has delayed the withdrawal of Israeli defense forces from Lebanon and has consisently refused to half the progress ofsettlements on the West Bank. He has been unreceptive to Reagan's most recent peace initiatives involving Jordan. He is unquestionably an obstacle to peace in the Middle East. Begin's concern for Israel's security has become nothing more than paranoid fanaticism. 

Ofcourse, Israel does have some legitimate and necessary security concerns. But the United States's concern for peace is equally legitimate if Israel continues to be a vital United States link in a particularly strategic area ofthe world. Yet America cannot remain oblivious to the behavior ofeven .its closest of allies. In order to retain important credibility in the Arab worl, the Un t ited States must not appear to be overlooking the trannsgressions of Israel. While the AmeriCan government cannot directly interfere with Israel's domes­tic politics, it can publicly and forcefully con­demn the behavior of the Begi government. Privately, it can exert economic pressureon Israel. Without American money and American harware, Israel cannot easily flex its military might. In the best fo all possible world, the fragmented Begin coalition would collapse and Israeli general elections would produce a more rational, moderate govern­ment. Such is the beauty of the parliamentary system. In place ofthat ideal, the United States should offer some ideals of its own. It must abandon old illusions about the immunity and sanctity of Israel. In place of those illusions, the United States should deal with the prag­matic realities of international politics and, at the moment, Begin's government is both a political liability and an obstacl to lasting peace in the Middle East. Illusions die hard. 
America land ofbeauty and advantage 
Being abroad for the first extended period ofmy life has made me think about a great deal of subjects that I would have never pondered while studying at Notre Dame. They are the things in our lives that we often take for granted: love, friendship, loneliness (the well­known "human condition" ofArts and Letters Core Course), family, the nature of God, etc. 
Robert Lloyd Snyder 
Over there 

-things that we ponder infrequently in day­to-day Domer life. Away from American soil, I have deliberated the "American condition"; the place we occupy in the world as products ofour unique, American culture. 
In strange surroundings, the uncertainty and insecurity that inevitably arises from kul­tureschock causes us to make comparisons between our former environment and new world we encounter. I absence does make the heart grow fonder, then I do not find it ironic that I am beginning to see the United States in a new (and once-thought im­probable) light. It is only when we visit foreign cultures that we learn to appreciate the "little incidentals" which, I believe, make North America the foremost place to live in the world. 
Actually, 1t starts off with the minor items. Although one becomes quite enchanted with the open-air markets, historic structures, and the legacy ofa city like London, the necessity of buying grocery hags in the local Safeway begins the aggravation (the "ugly American" syndrome). We Americans have been spoiled by big automobile:. and cheap gasoline. The mini-sized cars which seem to prowl every back-alleyway and dingy street in London are initially quite. amusing. Cheap hamburgers, crisp french fries and any type of Mexican food are all items which London is sorely lack­ing. The Colonel would roll over in his grave if he could see what the English do to Kentucky Fried Chicken. And most ofall. the entire city of London rolls up the sidewalks at about 
11:30 p.m. each night -a far cry from Paris, New York, or even South Bend. 
Yet, these are merely the irritations to which an American visitor to London even­tually adjusts. Far more weighty matters cause an American visitor to appreciate and Jearn to love the United States. 
The "class structure" of the United States is often reviled as being one of the greatest evils of our country, a system which promotes ra­cial inequality, economic servitude, and pronounced social stratification. I would not disagree -the economic and social ine­quality inherent in a capitalist system, and the favored status which the upper-class is cur­rently being granted by the current Ad­ministration is, at times, nothing short of criminal. 
In England, the stratification of classes is even more pronounced than in the United States_ The basis for social classification he}e is not mainly "monetary" as in the United Sfates -acceptance into the upper classes may be gained through money, familial status (regardless of economic status), schooling through Cambridge or Oxford, etc. There is still very much a "landed gentry" ofthe upper classes in England, and access to the "exclusive club" of the privileged is very closely guarded by the British. The class mobility ofthe British social structure is mini­mal when compared to the United States; while racial matters often greatly figure in ac­ceptance into the upper class in the United States, the phenomenon of "new money" families emerging in exclusive social circles proves that "cash" largely determines class in the United States -while certainly elitist, it is arguably more democratic. 
Another privilege of the United States that we seem to take for granted is our abundance of natural resources and the privileged economic status which results from our long­standing self-sufficiency. The inflation and high cost of living that we Americans always seem to be complaining about is but the stuff which dreams are made of in England. With 
gasoline at 52.75 a gallon, beers in the neigh­borhood stores at S1.25 per 12 ounces, and eggs running as high as Sl.20 per dozen, England is very expensive even by the stan­dards of Chicago or New York. Unemploy­ment here, I have been informed, is indexed differently than in the United States; this dif­ference makes British unemployment figures seem less severe than a similar figure in the United States. Nevertheless, the unemployed in Britain are easily worse off than their American counterparts, as the cost ofliving is much greater here. 
The political freedom that life in the United States affords is also a much taken-for-granted advantage to life in America. While we realize the democratic liberties that exist in American society that do not exist in China, the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, and most of Africa and South America, we do not recognize an equally compelling political ad vantage to American life. By virtue of the United States's supreme position in the world military, economic, and political order, Americans are very accustomed to a world or­der which is largely r'!.n by_American ideals and American values. It is quite a comfort to think that those elite who have the political power over our Jives eminate from the same country, culture, and background as our­selves; it is hard to put one'e selfinto the posi­tion of the European who is constantly dependent and affected by Washington's deci­sions and New York's economic trends. While we, as ordinary Americans, do not actually participate in the "power structure," we are confident that we can at least alter the events of our own country. The fate of the earth, oversimplifying, is in our hands. 

This prospect however, while sobering, does not frighten me. I have come to believe in the last month that Americans are one ofthe great peoples of the world, despite their oftimes boorish, xenophobic, and insubtle be­havior in the world arena. Moreover, their country, the United States of America, is indeed, the greatest country in the world, despite all of its well-known shortcomings. America the beautiful is beautiful, and we are very fortunate and should be thankful that we are part ofit. No -we are USA. 


Box Q, NotreDame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief............._...._.._,_...,. Michael Monk BusinessManager ,_ ...._....__ ,_,__ ....._....Tony A!ello 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller..........-...·-··-..-............ _........_.Eric Schulz
versity of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
ExecuttveNews Editor ,_..,.,_,...David Dziedzic· AdvertisingManager................._.._..Chris O~en
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe :Production Manager..._._,,_,__ ,_.Maura Mutphy
curately and :~.s objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor._ ..,__ ,_,__ ......................Chris Needles Circulation Manager...._...._,_ ..........Mark Mrotto
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ....._.......................P;tul McGinn Systems Manager __ ,_,__ ,_.... ~_ .........Bruce Oakley
the views ofthe1rauthors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor_........... -..-......~ ..... joe Musumeci

and the free e:Kprcssion ofvaryingopinionsonPrnP!J~, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor..............._._,,...___ ,,,_Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303. 
-
Sports~~=~=r=i=e~fJ~s=·=======:========Tu=e=sct=a=y,=Fe=b;::ru=a=ry=t=s=,1=9~s=3=p=ag=e=s 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Student Managers Organization is 
holding an. organizational meeting for any freshmen interested in joining the organization. The meeting will be held !tonightat 7:30 in the ACC Auditorium. Highlights from the 1982 Fighting Irish foot­ball season will be shown. -The Observer 
Brian Boulac, Notre Dame's football coach in charge of recruiting, will discuss the new crop of talent as well as the fast­approachingg spring season on Speaking ofSports on WSND-AM 64. The show will run from 10:00 to 11 :00 tonight. -The Observer 
Introduction to Windsurfing, a Free Univer­
sity course, will meet tomorrow in 105 O'Shag. Anyone who is signed up or interested may attend. There will be~ a $5 fee to cover the rental ofmaterials. -The Observer 
Itwas a slownightin college basketball last night, but there were a few Top 20 teams in action. In Charlottesville, Va., junior guard Othell Wilson scored 20 points as Virginia's fifth-ranked Caveliers put four players in double figures in cruising to an easy 92-69 Atlantic Coast Conference basketball victory over Georgia Tech. Virginia, rebounding from its 64-63 setback last Thursday at North Carolina, clinched its fourth consecutive 20-victory season. The Cavaliers now are 20-3 overall and 8-2 in the ACC. Craig Robin­son scored a season-high 17 points for Virginia. Ralph Sampson added 14 points andJim Miller 11. In Gainesville, Fla.,Jim Master and reserve Kenny Walker scored 18 points apiece to spur the 11th­ranked Kentucky Wildcats to a 73-61 Southeastern Conference vic­tory over Florida. The Gators haven't beaten the Kentucky since 1979, dropping their last nine decisions against the Wildcats. In Fayetteville, Ark., juniorguard Alvin Robertson scored 21 points and senior guard Darrell Walker added 17 as seventh-ranked Arkansas downed Southern Methodist 71-61 in Southwest Conference play. Robertson led the Razorbacks with nine first-half points and added 12 more in the second half as Arkansas put the Mus tangs away. Walker scored 10 of his points in the second half and sophomore cen t ter Joe Kleine, who finished with 15, also had 10 points after intermission. Sophomore forward, Larry Davis, led the Mustangs with 1"7 points and freshman guard Carl Wright added 14 for the Mustangs. The victory was Arkansas' 21st in 22 games and was the 27th in a row for the Razorbacks at home. -AP 
Open volleyball is beginning. The entry deadline is tonight at 5 p.m. Because there is a 32-team limit, early signup is encouraged. The tournament is open to students, faculty, and staff. It is single elimination with three 15-point games per round. The ros­ter minimum is nine players. Entries can be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Women's Track Club 
competed in the Wolverine Invitational at the University of Michi­gan on Saturday. Rose Marie Luking and Mary O'Connor once again broke the school record for the mile by covering the distance in 
5:25.3 and 5:14.4, respectively. Carrie Rowe, Rosemary Buckle, Susan Wanchow, Lisa Monti, and Mary Kennedy also turned in fine performances for the Irish. The team will be off until March 26 when it starts its outdoor season with a meet at Purdue. -The Observer 
Any remaining participants in the men's un­
dergrad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should call the NVA office at 239-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­ment moving. -The Observer 
The J<ellowship ofChristian Athletes is sponsoring an evening with former Chicago Bear and present FCA director Dave Hale. The meeting will be held in the library lounge at 
8:00 tomorrow night. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 

Donna White, battling tricky winds gusting up to 25 mph, fired a 4-under-par 68 yesterday and captured the rain-delayed $1 75,000 LPGA Sarasota Classic by one stroke over Alice Miller, 
JoAnne Carner, and Nancy Lopez. White's four-round total of 284 was 4-under-par on the 6, 128-yard Bent Tree Golfand Racquet Club course and gave the former University of Florida player her third career victory and first in three years. White, who won the Florida Lady Citrus and the Coca-Cola Classic in 1980, pulled into a tie with Miller with a birdie on the 14th hole and took the lead when Miller bogeyed the par 3, 140-yard 17th. -AP 
see BRIEFS, page 10 
DePaul upset by Ohio U. 
ATHENS, Ohio(AP)-Paul Baron hit on both ends ofa one-on-one foul shooting situation with 52 seconds left in the second overtime last night to give Ohio University a 63-62 non­conference college basketball vic­tory over DePaul. 
The shots gave the Bobcats a 63-61 lead. The Blue Demons made it 63-62 when Bernard Randolph made one oftwo free throws with 29 seconds to play. There was no more scoring after .that as the Bobcats failed to convert on two one-and­one situations. 
Baron. whose foul shots were his only two points of the game. clinched the victory by grabbing the rebound of a missed shot by DePaul's Kenny Patterson as time ran out. 
The teams ended regulation play tied at 53-53, with Randolph missing a 12-footer at the buzzer that would have won the game. 
Each team scored four points in the first overtime. Tony Jackson of DePaul made it 57-57 with four seconds to play, then stole the ball and threw up a shot from half court that bounced off the rim as time expired. 
The game was close throughout. with no team leading by more than three points after the 1 1:21 mark of the second half 
Vic Alexander scored 14 points, JeffThomas 12, andJohh Devereaux 10 for Ohio, 16-5. which led 55-3H in rebounds. Tyrone Corbin had 21. Jackson and Walter Downing 11 each, and Randolph 10 for DePaul, 14-8. 

Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept classifteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am. to 4.30 p.m. However, classtfieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1fieds must be prepaid. e1ther 1n person or through the mall  
FOUND ONE GP AND A SLUT LAST Need a nde East on /-80 to T aledo for 2­SEEN IN THE VICINITY OF PE 18. J1m 8708-07NOTICES WEARING LEOPARD SKINS AND MISTLETOE WHAT FUN!!! TO CLAIM. HELP' NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH!! SPEAK WITH THE CREATIVE NATIVE WEEKEND OF FEB 25 CAN LEAVETYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 AND THE WHIPPED WOMAN BUT ANYTIME. CALL PAT 3071 REMEMBER: FINDERS. KEEPERS!TYPING P S. THANKS FOR THE VALENTINE NEED A RIDE HOME FOR MOM'SJackie Boggs 684-8793 B'DAY TO BUFFALO OR ANYPLACE LOST ND CLASS RING( 83), NAME CLOSE FOR WEEKEND OF FEB 1 B·20 INSIDE. BLUE STONE. LOST POSSIB­LYONS HALL FOODSALES DELIVERS NICK 8232. LY AT SMC(MOREAU-O'LAUGHLINFRESH THICK CRUST PIZZA TO ALL HALL). LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND Need nde to Dayton for Feb 18-20 CallOF SOUTH QUAD. PRICES CAN'T BE OF 1/28-1/30, BIG REWARD$$$ OF­Claire 284-4379BEAT. CALL X1853 FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO PLEASE CALL 283-3346Need nde to St. LOUIS 2/17 or 2/18. Laura Need nde to Cleveland/Akron area for4432 LOST: Tl-55 II Calculator 3RD fl weekend of Feb.18·20 Call Tracey SMC F1tzpatnck 2/8 Please return to Lee x8693 4379 LOST/FOUND lost·gold se1ko quartz watch. possibly left TICKETS ]1n locker room at the Rock on 2/4/83. If found, please call K1m at 277-7401. I HATE REO SPEEDWAGON TOO BUT I D1d you go to aNEW WAVE PARTY 1nthe STUDENT RENTAL, 4-BEDROOM WOULD LIKE TO GO TO THE CON­basement of GRACE on SATURDAY HOUSE CALL 232-4057,272-7767 CERT ANYWAY AND I NEED A TICI<ET n1ght (2-5-83)? Whose COAT did you CALL3601 wear home? Somebody took my coat It IS 4 bdrm furnished house. noar campus.(.vas) a NAVY-BLUE P-COAT w1th forest On Notre Dame Ave. Good condition. 9 REO! REO! <;reen MITIENS in the sleeve and 1ns1de mo. lease $335 per mo. Call 684-0933 COMING SOON TO ACC! WE HAVE tr.e mittens were my fnends BASKET­(local call). TWO GREAT TICKETS! CALL TONI ·'lALL TICKETS (packet B). I NEED my AND SANDY AT SMC 5527 FOR INFO! oat-espec1ally w1th all th1s snow PLEASE Cheap Rent & low utilities: $235. 1-3call me any time day or n•ght--Mary Karen Bedroom Apt. $165-185 off Portage 289­284-50t 3 or 284-5194. PLEASE HELP 1687.ME!!!!!! House:4 bedroom. near ND. $290 per mo. I JO_~BANK]Lost: Blue Tra1IWISe Jacket at Farley party Fall or summer. No utilities. Phone (319)on Saturday. Found: Blue Tra1IW1se Jacket 322-8753 Patty. 1 Job openmg at W1lhams Home Center m r·early 1dent1cal Call Frank 1774. Niles. Part-lime work needed 1n sales and stock For 1nfo. call Deb K1efer at 683· A HANDMADE MONKEY SOCK 2700 STUFFED ELEPHANT WAS LOST Job open1ng at W1ll1ams Heme Center 1n NEAR THE LIBRARY ON 2/7/83/ IT S.B.. Summer help needed 1n full and BELONGS TO ANNIE LIGHT, A FIVE­part-lime sales and stock For 1nfo. call YEAR-OLD GIRL. PLEASE RETURN TO Greg R1char t d at 291-8500. 734 P E THANX. Job opemng at Stnger Gen. T1re, Inc 1n I need a nde or someone to ·share rent-a­S B .. Wor~. needed 1n sales on a cornm1s~ FOR THE PERSON WHO STUMBLED car to Cleveland, weekend ot Feb. 18-20. s1on bas1s For info. call Tom Shanat1an at INTO THE WRONG ROOM IN FLANNER Please call Bruce x6256 Thank you. 291-4616. & STUMBLED OUT WITH MY WALLET. I WOULD APPRECIATE THE RETURN MILWAUKEE nde or nders needed Feb OF THE CONTENTS. NO OUESTIONS­18-20 ROG 277·6842 TIM-1143. NEED RIDE TO AKRON-CLEV AREA LPERSONALSJ Lost: Reward. Burgundy purse & wallet. THIS WEEKEND FEB 18-20. JULIE Lost at Dillon Hall Fnday, 11 Last seen'" X7852 Food Sales. Please return. my license. school 1.d., & pictures are 1n there. Call HELP! Need nde to dwntwn Chgo or 284-5181. Thank you. O'Hare area Fri Feb 18. Mar·1a 1266/7  Dear Caphve Heart 1n Tower of London -You've got my heart string Only you can pluck rt But since your abroad I can only say----it And even though l"m reduced· To a mere soc1al eunuch I reaily appreciated The phone call from Munich Thanks tor mak1ng my Valentmes day' If there's anything worse than a Fresh­man SMC Hoosier -If s not seemg her for a week or more JUGGLER The Juggler IS now accepting f1Ct1on. poetry essays photography, graphics, etc. for the Spnng 1983 1ssue SubmiS­Sions should be turned 1n at the English Off1ce .309 O'Shag (Juggler mailbox) Need A1de To Connecticut For :3pnng Break. Will Share Usual. Please Call Dan at6824 JOHN Y & SHIRLEY -Happy 26th. thanks for my 21!! I love you! Ladies of P W. VOTE St1rks Prez McCrudden -VP of hall council Carolyn Panzica is 22 today Oon't forget to w1sh he1 a happy birthday And remember, as Hall and Oates says, she s a Pan-z1ca.'· We hate to go, because we'll miss you so, but we "If be hot. while you're not. I.Dve and kisses, .Ryan and Joe SMC Class of '86 LETS WRAP IT UP! VOTE: Anne Marie KOLLMAN-Pres. Sheila FLOOO-V.P. Kathl HJI.RlWEGER-Sec'y. Gretchen WROBLEWSKI-Trea. TODAY! HEY GUYS: Yesterday was JUSt a warm­up for TODAY LAURENE POWERS' BIRTHDAY'!! She Will be accepting Birthday k1sses-ALL DAY or call 2949 and w1sh her a happy one.  Class of 86 vote over for our lucky clover I makes a n01ce sandwich a notce Julie Harmon pres Mary Sauer v1ce sandwich. pres Janet Biegel sec Theresa Hardy treas on Tues . Feb 15th Phlegm-o-rama 83 w1th PWBG star of W1de World of Phlegm and Amencan S M C Sophomores. Make a cho1ce you Phlegmmer Hurry to see the K~ng of won't regret! Vote Manion Karnatz Saas Phlegm Nolan for Jumor Class Oft1cers Feb 15! Mary HAPPY B-OAY' Is 1t true what they BUT I DON'T LIKE MIAMI YOU GOTTA say? Love trorn the Cahforn1a Connec­BELIEVE ME ... tion THE LONE DESIGN ARRANGER AND HIS SIDEKICK LIBERTY. Lynne. only 2 more weeks! Th1nk we can make 1t? I HOPE SOl J1m Doo Doo. Happy belated V.D ' Those Tues­Paul Comber, Thurs. naps are ternf1c! How·s your Senior-God you. Thanks Muchly for cowlick? the Valantine·s greetings. Maybe I'll Love and K1sses. catch you in sometime before you Your gtrlfnend graduat10! Cymbly yours, M Ash Wednesday Prayer Serv1ce-Bread. WILL 1HE PERSON WHO SENT BRIAN Not Bombs -Will be held 1n Sacred Heart BARRINGTON AN ANONYMOUS Lady Chapel on Feb. 16 from 3.30 to 4:30 VALENTINE PLEASE REVEAL HER­All are welcome! SELF OR HIMSELF HE REALLY WANTS TO MEET YOU. P S HE S NOT (P)Em1l REALLY SHY Buon Compleanno!The farmer's horse xopowo I love dnv1ng.Ya ocheen CASEY WEARS GARANIMALS AND lyoubleeyou tebya--vsegda. Would you STONEY CANT TIE A TIE. P S THE cons1der hav1ng dtnner w1th me ton1ght? ICE WOMAN MELTETH BIPS Any forms to be shared could have been I BUDGETEER RM 127, KATHALEEN­discovered 1n a $50 bar-but that's ok­NICE NECK STEVE, HOW MANY Happy Belated Valentines Day Seacow TURTLENECKS DO YOU OWN? KEL­LY, DREW. WHAT NEW USE DID YOU Attent1on ail Females FIND FOR THE KOFC? SUE BATILING Soon to be 1n pnnt--Mary M Riley s book FOR A MATTRESS, WAS ROSIE THAT How to .Rationaliz~ Wfth A Naked Man. GOOD? KATHY. KENNY -WON THE It's sure to be a block buster! BED AND SPENT THE WHOLE NITE DOING NOTHING' WHY?? BIANCA AHN i:lREt.!D"-"' SMITH NEXT TIME LOVE THONE YOUR WITH. I t'lava e0m1red you tor the past year. H1nt J.R. PAID FOR A CAB LATELY? DONNA x1-I am not -::1. domette! Keep watch1ng tor FIGHTING OVER MIKE. COULDNT LISA rfl!l•·e data1is! Love KEEP HIS ATTENTION MOIRA HUG­? GING TOLIETS. t ZOMBIES-DO YOU KNOW WHAT SEMI-FORMAL MEANS? Det:s anyone ~r;.ow how many people ;ot MARY ATIACHEDATTHE LIPS. PATII one 1\me,can m1n tne hand1cap bathroOir. A NICE FB PLAYER. A PLESANT at s~ruor BaJ wlttlOL.:t their teet shOWing? SURPRISE. COLLEEN, WHAT HAP­PENED IN THE BATHROOM FOR AN J1r:'. & St~11e· Thank~ had tun th1s Fnday. HOUR? JULIE NEXT TIME TURN THE Cai' YS ~;oxt l1me Ludw1gs come up. To 1 m & LIGHTS OFF! NCE LEGS BEER Sandy SHORTAGE, SUE'S SHUTILE, SLAN SUE'S SHUTILE. THANKS GUYS/ SEE TO THE HOCKifV 1rEAM -YOU ARE YOU AROUND! WOiiiOH~FVL STARTING BLOCKS Sw,mm1ng Pool, wher> Igrow up -Iwannabe a NAND gate Flag Pole. ·cross1ng'" Pen Cha~nl.nk Fence Jake walk back 1n cold Happy Cause when you're a NAND gate -you Valentines Day US can ba ;mythlng I  


The Observer 
r. The Notre Dame track team, shown here in a meet earlier this year, made a good showing in the Indiana State Championships over the 
!~ely," says Piane. "We ran ag­
~essively Friday night and had some excellent performances." 
The meet was marked by a num­ber of outstanding Irish individual

• • . Golic 
continuedfrom page 12 
The wrestlers host Miami ofOhio and Siena Heights this Saturday after­noon at 1:30 in the ACC Pit in what will be their last competition before the NCAA Midwest Regionals on February 25-26. 
The Midwest Regional is for in­dependents and those schools which compete in only one Division I sport. It will feature such teams as LSU, Indiana State, Cal Poly, Mar­quette, and host Kentucky. 
Looking ahead to the regionals, Bruno offers this assessment of his team. "For our age, we're way ahead of our time. Then again, we've al­ways been ahead of schedule in terms of college competition be­cause we wrestle in so many tourna­ments. 
"Our best shots for Nationals are 
c:
• 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES -presents a-
special dinner menu in 
'' . ',
C€l€BRatJOn or Chln€S€ n€WyeaR 
toOay 
-in the public cafelteria for faculty, staff and guests from 4:00pm-7:00pm 

Wonton Soup Egg Drop Soup 


Shrimp Chow Mein Beef CHop Suey Chicken Fried Rice BBQ Spare Ribs 
Stir Fried Pea Pods and Sliced Onions Medley of Chinese Vegetables Steamed Rice 
Almond Cookies -Chop Sticks-
performances, as the team was not Fisher and Golic -Fisher because IRISH ITEMS -Southwestern intimidated by the fact that the com­ofhis experience and Golic because Michigan was also scheduled to petition was the best that Indiana he is a heavyweight and a pretty wrestle Notre Dame this Saturday, could offer. 
good athlete in general. The highlight of the day for Notre "On the next level down are making the meet a quadrangular, but Dame was a school record­Crown, Baty, and Heintzelman with had to cancel because of a schedul­
shattering run by Jim Tyler. The outside chances." ing conflict. sophomore from Norwood, ~.Y. was 
r-wi;;-&~-:rrtt;;;;u;, 
I ,·~r:·l.-~ Haircut,-8-hampoo, I I "' Blow Dry, & Condition I I -Reg.$15 I 

Exam ReviewCourse 
54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. NOW $8 50 WITH couPoNI
I

Across from Martin's on. St. R~.23 • 
Starts February 21
1 Tues, Wed, Sat 8.30 -5.30 H • I I $6 w1rH 1 
Call 237-4191 for registration information 1272-0312 277-1691 I 
Thur, Fri ~:30-8:30 aIrcu on y COUPON. 
. HAIRMUSTBEWASHEDDAYOFCUT 
IUSB Continuing Education 
I 
•

~---------------­
Tuesday, February 1 5, 1983 -page 9 
.,... ¢';\ '.:,,,:... J:(''.'
..·. ., 

Track team ends up 
,,.t% 

' ""' ~ second in state meet 
1 
By DEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

• 
Indiana University may have run away with the meet, but the Notre Dame track team didn't come home empty-handed from the Indiana State Championships. The Irish placed second, the highest finish for a Notre Dame team in this meet 
since Coach joe Piane took over the helm. 

'!t """' E:. The fine showing was a surprise to 
many people, but not to Piane, who

weekend. Dean Sullivan gives some more details 
is now in his ninth season as track ·coach. 

about the meet in his story to the right. (Photo by 
Paul Cifarelli). 
"We've been running really well 

• 
-student dining halls from 
4:30-6:30 pm 
'­

Ad Promotion by: Mahs Corporation 
slated against Indiana's All­
American, Jim Spivey, in the 1000­yard run. Tyler was not intimidated 
in the least and he stayed with Spivey from the start. Spivey, however, pulled away in the final tum to nip Tyler, who, along with qualifying for the NCAA Champion­ships, broke a 16-year-old school record with a time of 2:09. 
Tyler wasn't the only Notre Dame runner who turned in a record per­formance. Co-captain Steve Dziabis set a meet record in the quarter mile, by posting a time of48.16. 
john McCloughan continued his mastery in the . 60-yard high hurdles, while Tim Cannon finished just ahead of Andy Dillon for the third and fourth spots in the mile andjohn McNelis placed third in the 880-yard dash. 
Other good performances by the Irish included Jan Kania who 4­finished fourth in the 600-yard run, Chuck Constable, fifth in the high jump, and james Patterson, who took third place in the triple jump and fourth in the long jump. 
• 
.......-· 
..,• 




fhe Observer 
Tuesday, February 15, 1983 -page 10 
Rethinks retirement 
Ro.binson is new coach of Rams 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -john  "I love football, it's in my blood,"  The Rams haLl slipped badly under  
Robinson, one of the most success­ Robinson said. "It's nice to be back. I  Malavasi since their Super Bowl  
ful college football coaches in  considered it too good an oppor­ season of 1979 (a 31-19 loss to Pitts­ 
recent years, yesterday was named  tunity to pass up."  burgh), and last year's 2-7 record  
head coach ofthe struggling Los An­ Robinson's hiring by Rams owner  followed a 6-1 0 1981 season.  
geles Rams.  Georgia Frontiere came as a surprise  But Robinson said he thinks the  
Robinson, 47, had resigned his  since he had turned own a lucrative  Rams can tum around.  
coaching post at the University of  coaching offer from the New  "I'm confident we have the  
Southern California just three  England Patriots only a year ago.  people in our organization to be suc­ 
months ago to become the school's  The Rams would not disclose  cessful," he said. "I think in pro foot­ 
vice resident ofuniversity relations.  terms of Robinson's contract.  ball there is a cycle of any team that  
At the time, Robinson said he had  Frontiere had fired Coach Ray  has been down coming back."  
no intention oftaking a pro coaching  Malavasi, who had a 44-41 record in  Robinson's Trojan teams won one  
job in the near future. But, he said  five years at the Los Angeles helm,  national title and this past season's  
yesterday, he was leaving university  after the National Football League  No. I 5 was his club's lowest final  
administrative life because he simp­ season ended last month.  standing in the poll.  
ly missed football.  Introducing the new coach to the  
"I've been out of football much  media, Frontiere said, "Happy  Robinson guided the Trojans to an  
too long ­three months," he said at  Valentine's Day everyone."  8-3 record this season, but the  
a news conference.  "I have something very special be­ Trojans were on NCAA probation  
Robinson emphasized that he was  cause I know you deserve one ofthe  and ineligible for postseason play.  
sincere when he took the post.  best coaches that I've ever heard of  The sanction, stemming mostly from  
"I had made a big decision in my  ... you'll all be pleased ...your  an assistant coach's selling players  
life then, and now this past weekend,  coach and ours, John Robinson."  tickets, also prohibits any bowl ap­ 
I had the opportunity to make anoth­ During his seven seasons as the  pearances next season and any  
er big one," he said. "I thought I  Trojans' head coach, Robinson  television appearances for 1983 and  
wanted to be out of c:oaching, but I  guided the team to a 6 7-14-2 record,  1984.  
think the environment with the  giving him one of the best winning  He was replaced as Trojan coach  
Rams is something I want to be in­ percentages among active college  by Ted Tollner, who had been an as­ 
volved in.  coaches.  sistant at the school.  

College Hall of Fame 
Former ND player honored 
NEW YORK (AP) Five In addition to Shakespeare, the victory over Ohio State in 1935, deceased college football greats, foundation's Honors Court named throwing a touchdown pass to 
including Bill Shakespeare, a former John Baker, a guard at Southern Notre Dame halfback who was in­California, Army quarterback Arnold volved in one of the most famous Galiffa, Ernie Vick, a center at Michi­rallies in college football history, gan, and Frank Murray, who coached have been named to the National at Marquette and Virginia. Football Foundation's College Hall Shakespeare, who died in 1974, of Fame. was the hero of Notre Dame's 18-13 
Catch 
ADRE~ALI~E 
-~ ----­
at Senior Bar! 
FRIDAY, FE8.18 9:30pff! •••BETHER.E!!! 

r:t~--·~--·_....,.._..t_._.._.._.,;:-._.._.~,_..__._.,_1 ~~;?S9~~~-h~e 0 :::"o~~o~~ 7~ 
} UBI n 4 a BenvIX! !. --,o,~·,: ~ pioneers of the huddle and one of 
1 -l the first coaches to exploit flankers ~ Sat. Feb. 19--(bus leaves main circie at 10 am) ...if~ and the spread formation. He died in ~ only 45 spaces available, so sign up now! if~~ i 195 1 · ~ sign-up sheet--see Margaret (S. U. secretary) ~J tl ~ IJI"'"'"'"""'""""""""'"'"'"""'"'E 
i in Student Union offices (2nd floor LaFortune) ~d:'.J ~ ~ · Roc.CO'S Hair · 
7

IL ~ct ~· ~ ~.-=·' iJ-.Styling-.,.s____,-.t4 -.~~ .!1 ~0-:::-~ 
.........,...~~.......;.::....................~~.....,.....,....,................~..,....,........~..,..J 

SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
Special Price on Soft Lenses 
$99 pair price 
Price Includes: 
*Daily wear soft contact lenses *Professional and fitting fees *Free cold care solution kit *Free training in proper handling 
Call one C)f our convenient locations today tor an apJ'ointment. Present this ad for the 
Special $99 price. 
Professional Vision Associates ... the professionals in eyecare. 
1635 N Ironwood 277·1161 2211 S. Michigan St. 289·7272 Bellville Shopping Ctr. 287-5949 

531 N. Michigan St., South Bend Phone 233·4957 
lil.................................................li 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 


~~~ 
ff 19 
~"'~ 
200/0 OFF 
Good Mon -Thurs only 

STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student I.D. Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 atedison 
nlflll'l l' • ' " 'lUI 
Wayne Milner with just 32 seconds 
left as the irish overcame a 13-0 
fourth quarter deficit. 
Baker, a four-letter man at USC, 
kicked a field goal with one minute 
to play that lifted the Trojans to a 16­
14 victory that ended a 26-game 
Notre D T arne unbeaten streak in 
1931. He died in 1979. 
Vick, also a four letter winner at 
Michigan, was named to Walter 
Camp's 1921 All-America team. He 
went on to play professional football 
with the Chicago Bears and baseball 
with the St. Louis Cardinals. He was a 
catcher on he Cards' 1926 world 
championship team and later served 
as a football ofticial. He died in 1980. 
Murray never played football but coached at Marquette from 1922-36 and 19-!6-49. He was at Virginia from 1937-4'5. His teams posted un­beaten seasons in 1922, 1923, and 
---~ 

IheO~er~==================================== 
~~4()l~~=========================T=u=es=d=a=y,=F=e=br=u=a=ry=1=5=,=1=98=3===p=a=g=e=l=l 
Bloom County 
HAPPY POST VAI.£NT1NeS 

I HOP£ ABOXOF 
ffif. BABY. H~£... 
YOO UK€ rT. OB5C£Nfi.Y 
I 60TYA ~IN0. 
SHAP£P
I 

CHOCOLA1B5. 

Simon 
T!tf, WE 60T II 
Ill£ I/Dif!KI6Tifl/~ /5
HOT 11115/1 ON TI/E 
l!f/(£1/TENING KJ 7iX5 STIUNTS 
lfXISIN6 .YM£. 
OfF Cfltt!M NEXT !EllA'. 
/

) 
qt YEIJII... 

011 YEII/I ...
\ 
\ 

Wl ~ ~;· _tA,,IN TH£' 
i)ININ q HALl 11 LL \y£ 

TtN HUT/
flt./\1< f RCM TH! CM1AIN. 
/ I I '-"--. --........_ 


Y6P. 
AQASSY 01FT FOR A UA5&Y A BROAP... 8€ MINE QU€5TION ... FOR£VER, 100T5. 
osfl\f'(J<!: I 
' 

AV. JU(JT fUU !HE 
LOTTEI<Y ~OI(Y f~0/1 /..flj{ YEIII<S !'fifE/( RI(O Olt!U 
/ILl THE f.!IITE:J. 

f· n ASHAMLD OF ALL CF Yout YOU. KNOW THE' 
ACROSS 
1 Street in Gotham's Chinatown
The Daily Crossword 
5 Marine 
mammals 
10 Ginger­
14 Retired 
~....-:-::--T::-::-"1":"::'--. netter 15 English
.,.,....+--+-+---1 novelist 16 Tops
~-+----4-+---1 17 Road for Brutus 18 Misrepre· sent 19 N.B.A.'s Archibald 20 Edict f-:::-+----4-~-+~ 22 "-You Know" (old song)
Monday's Solution 
The Student Union Presents: 
JIMMY CLIFF 


Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom Thurs. Feb. 17 7, 9 and 11 
24 Wears well 26 Lab fluids 27 Ziegfeld 29 Prison, to 
a con 31 Plays 35 Lake islet 36 Elver 
hunter 38 Trap39 Cheery 
sounds 41 Carries on 43 Related 
44 Its capital is Canea 46 Alabama city 48 Superlative suffix 49 Early ascetic 
Berke Breathed 

Y6AHr WHO AR€ 13ABY? YOU? 
)eb Cashin 
Ga5/l... 15 
TffiiT £1/IICIIL f' LttJK IF THEY
I 
CIIN ftJ li'Eii'liNS, 
<50CI/NWE. 
\ 
Photius 

Gooo LtTn£ sov~ AND GIRLS 
DON'T IHROW TANTR.l.lM S 
AND NO 4COO Lirnf ' 
80'15 AND ii1RL5 [,A.IWITH 
DIRIY FAC[S. 

Campus 
•12:10 
p.m. -Art Noontalk, "Constructivism: Sculpture's Emergence Into Modernism or the Basis for Modern Sculpture," Prof. Marjorie S. Kin· sey, Annenberg Auditorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -lecture, "Extraction of Organic Materials Using Solvents at Super Critical Condi· tions," R.J. Robey, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Aveolar Hydatid Disease: Fine Structure, Development and Chemotherapy," Dr. Alan A Marchiondo, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

• 
., p.m. -lecture, On Holography, Prof. Douglas 

E. 
Tyler, Moreau Hall, SMC 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Film, "North Dallas Forty," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by FLOC, S1 

•7 
and 9 p.m. -Social Concerns Film, "State of Seige," Social Concerns Center 

•7:30 
p.m.-Slide Show, "Transition to Living in Space," J. Burrett, 118 NSH 

• 
10 p.m. -Call in Talk Show, Speaking ofSports, Will Hare, WSND·AM 64 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 MASH 22 Laverne & Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 
7:30 16 All In The Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
8:00p.m. 16 TheA Team 22 Walt Disney 28 Happy Days 34 Nova 
8:30p.m. 28 Laverne and Shirley 
9:00p.m. 16 Bare Essence 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 34 American Playhouse 
9:30p.m. 28 9 to 5 10:00p.m. 16 St. Elsewhere 28 Hart to Hart 
llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
The Far Side 
"Again? rig . . . warm, summer evening many years ago, I was basking on a 

-
51 Novelist 
O'Fiaherty 52 Beverage 53 Negri of 
silents 55 Refuse 57 Stone 
pillar 61 Final words 64 Neuron 
"tail" 65 Asian weights 67 Pierre's girlfriend 68 Asian 
snowman 69 Dinsmore 70 Ethiopian 
lake 71 Dill 72 Inclination 73 Unique 
fellow 
DOWN 1 Domestic 2 Bone: pref. 3 Old Latin 
proverb, with32D 4 Cotta or firma 
5 Jacks­(poker opener) 
6 Sandpiper 7 Still 8 Goodbye, 
Juan 
9 Be irate 10 California 
valley 11 Ham's dad 12 Pillar 13 Hammer head 21 Actual 
being 23 Misplays 25 Marner 27 Mockery 28 Perjurors 30 Carouse 32 See 3D 33 Spring 34 Actress 
Berger 37 Ignited 
again 40 Faster! 42 The"400" 45 Chemical 
compound 47 Oriental nurse 50 Social 
superiors 54 In any way 56 Treaty org. 57 Yucatan 
Indian 58 Yoked 
beasts 59 Memo 60 "For­
jolly..." 62 Numberof muses 63 Cherished 

66-Yutang stretch of Interstate 95 not far from here ..." 
Now that you've seen "Brubaker'' ... 
TOffiffiURTON 

prison reformer whose story was depicted in the movie 
"8RUBAJS.EB" 

will speak on the future of the penal system and the movie. 
Thurs. Feb 17 8:00pm esc Bldg. 

S.U. series on the future of American Society 
...... 
j 
j 

r· 
~ -~--------............-~-­
Tuesday, February 15, 1983 -page 12 
~orts 
Golic paces another good tourney finish 

totalled 1,012 points. 

I 
The Villanova defeat dropped
i 
I 
defending champion North Carolina, 21-4, to third place with
A kiss, a QB, and a health nut 
931 points, although the Tar Heels 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Writer 
After holding the lead in the Wheaton Invitational after the first day ofcompetition Friday, the Notre Dame wrestling team took fifth in the 26-team tournament, which was won by Drake for the third straight year. 
Irish coach Bro. joseph Bruno, C.S.C., was both pleased and surprised by his team's perfor­mance. 
"Leading after the first day was much to our delight," he said. "It was really a surprise to me and to the team. 1 didn't think we were going to look that good, but everyone wrestled well." 
Once again pacing the Irish grap­plers was heavyweight Mike Golic. The Willowick, Ohio native took first place in his weight class and, in doing so, raised his season record to 24-3. The sophomore has now gar­nered two firsts, a second, and a third in four tournament ap­pearances this year. 
Golic was victorious in the finals only because he had accumulated 45 seconds of riding time to his op­ponent's none. When Golic and his foe remained tied after an overtime period, the match became a criteria decision, in which a list of tiebreak­ing devices is examined until a win­ner can be decided. 
Also continuing his winning ways was sophomore Phil Baty. Ta king third at 167 at Wheaton, Baty upped his season mark to 31-7, approach­ing the record for most wins in a season which he set at 33 last year. The record has since been broken. 
The person responsible for break­
ing the record is junior Mark Fisher. 
Fisher now stands at a lofty 41-10 af­
i 
ter taking fourth in the 126 lb. class at Wheaton. 
He could have finished higher, however, if it was not for an ankle injury which forced him to drop out of the tournament prematurely. 
"I took him out so that he wouldn't be rackc:d up for the rest of the season," explained Bruno. 
Others grabbing top spots for the Irish were freshmen Eric Crown and John Krug, both taking fifth place at 118 and 177, respectively. 
Crown lost only one match, and that was by one point. He may have won that match also, but, according to Bruno, was victimized by some questionable officiating. Despite the loss, though, he improved his record to 32-12-1. 
Bruno was not too pleased with the officiating in, not only the Crown match, but also the entire tournament. 
"There was this one particular ref we were really having trouble with," he explained, "and it seemed that we kept getting him. Crown had him in the match he lost and we must have lost at least four (matches) by one point. I thought that we had some real controversial calls with the offi­cials." 
One interesing note for the Irish was the award given to co-captain Don Heintzelman for "Most Pins in the Tournament." The 142 lb. soph­omore now leads in pins with 12 af­ter his four at Wheaton. 
"It was a surprise to us all, including him," admitted Bruno of Heintzelman's award. "We were about ready to walk out of the gym when they announced the award. And I had been on Heintzelman for not being a pinner." 
see GOLIC., page 9 
j 
Some early spring cleaning from the files of a 
wayward sportswriter: 
Did you see the North Carolina State game Saturday? Did you wonder about Digger Phelps, too? Who was the man blowing kisses to at the end of the game? I can almost understand it when he thanks the students for support here at the ACC -but I seriously doubt there were many die-hard Irish fans in Raleigh. 
Ifyou saw the N. C. State game, you must have seen Dick and AI lost in the mountains. OK, so NBC went a. little overboard. But did they have to put AI in such ~t stupid looking hat? It looked like something they salvaged off the set ofGilligan's Island. 
As long as we're on the subject ofNBC, let's talk about Sunday. It was a stark contrast onSportsWorld. There is something disconcerting about cutting from a beautiful[ Janet Lynn skating routine to Marv Albert hyping a fight with Frank "Animal" Fletcher. 
Take a look at the picture that is running on page 10 and answer truthfully: Don't you think the fitness craze has gone a little too far? Jimmy Piersall, the Chicago White Sox announcer, once said "Nutrition makes me puke." I feel the same way about this guy. Nobody should be that healthy. 
Did I mention in any of my Super Bowl articles that the longest lines in Pasadena were not for the rest rooms or the beer (which was three dollars a cup, by the way)? No, the longest lines were for the phones ­where frantic bettors were making last-minute wagers. 
How excited can we be expected to get about the · news that Notre Dame has recruited a quarterback thai: has only played in 10 high school games? And ifhe's so good, why didn't Pitt, which is located about two blocks from his high school, recruit him more heavily? Far be it from me to second guess, but the situation sounds aw· fully simil;lr to the Ken Karcher and Todd Lezon stories. Neither were very high on the lists of top high school 
I 
l 
Things get a little unfriendly in a wrestling fifth-place finish in the Wheaton Invitational. 
match earlier this year. The wrestling team is For more details about the weekend, see jeff coming off another i"li_Jressive tournament Blumb's story at the left. (Photo by Ed Carroll). showing over the weekend. This time it was a 
First time ever 

Runnin' Rebels are Number One 
by a nationwide panel. Jerry
By The Associated Press 
Tar t kanian's team defeated Pacific and Fresno State last week, running their winning streak to 22 games. 
For the first time ever, Nevada-Las The Running Rebels are the sixth

Vegas sits atop The Associated Press basketball poll. 

team to hold the top spot in The AP poll this season following Virginia,
The Runnin' Rebels, the only un­Indiana, Memphis State, UCLA, and
defeated team in the nation, took North Carolina

over first place in this week's poll Nevada-Las Vegas totaled 1,031
following Villanova's victory over points, just 19 ahead ofsecond place
North Carolina which tumbled the Tar Heels to third place. 
Indiana, which received 13 first­place ballots. The Hoosiers, 19-2,
Nevada-Las Vegas received 31 scored Big Ten victories over Min­
first-place votes ofthe 54 ballots cast nesota and Wisconsin last week and 
still received four first-place votes. 
Houston, 20-2 and riding a 15­game winning streak, moved up to No. 4 with 918 points and five first­
Skip Desjardin 
place votes. Virginia, 19-3, after being beaten
,Sports Editor Emeritus 
~-~ ..... ---
_ for the second time this season by North Carolina last week, slipped from No. 3 to No. 5 with 813 points.
---______, 
Sixth place went to 20-2 St. John's, which moved up one notch with 809 points after beating George­town for the second time this season. The Redmen received one first place vote. 
Arkansas, 20-1, took over seventh place with 731 points following vic­tories last week over Baylor and TexasA&M. 
Villanova's upset of North Carolina moved the Wildcats from No. 12 to No.8 with 676 points, just ahead of Louisville, which nailed down No. 9 with 673 points. 
UCLA, upset by Oregon State, slipped five spots from No. 5 to No. I 0 with 602 points. 
Kentucky, 16-5, climbed two spots to No. 11 with 521 points, followed by Missouri, 19-4, with 513 points. Memphis State, 18-3 and 445 points, dropped to the No. 13 spot, followed by Georgetown, 16-6 and 271 points. The other teams were Wichita State, 16-3 and 260 points, Iowa, 15-6 and 249, Syracuse, 16-5 and 175 points, Boston College, 17­4 and 125 points, Oklahoma, 18-6 and 85 points, and Ohio State, 15-6 and 78 points. 

passers, and neither has proven himself. 
In fact, Lezon may be one ofthe biggest mysteries in the program. When the Irish were having all those quar­terback problems, why didn't the guy ever take a snap? 
Tim Kempton's picture appea:rs above an article assessing the nation's freshmen in this week's Basket­ball Weekly. Of course, there is a separate article on Wayman Tisdale. He is the first player to challenge some of Wilt Chamberlain's Big Eight records. Cham­berlain scored 52 points for Kansas one night some 25 years ago. No one came close to that until Tisdale, in his fourth game ever for Oklahoma, scored 51. 
Forget the freshman label. This guy may be the best forward in the country. 
Want to guess what the final score would have been if Notre Dame bad played North Carolina Sunday? I'll bet 31-27 Carolina It was, after all, to have been the third game in four days for the Irish. Digger must have been planning to slow it down. I wonder ifTar Heel players would have remembered how to play against a stall? And don't you wonder which home game would have been cancelled? Can you imagine 1the uproar ifwe had been deprived a look at Akron or Northern Iowa? 
Cheer up, fans. Pro football starts in just 19 days. Baseball returns in 50 days. The Irish football season starts in just 197 days. Unless, ~IS some people say, August brings a high-payoff exhibition against Alabama. Apseudo-bowl for Notre Dame, and a homecoming for Ray Perkins. Both schools deny it, but a highly-placed official at the Newjersey Meadowlands insists the game will be played. 
Stay tuned. 
Fencers bounce back with four easy wins 
By MATIJOHNSON 
Sports Writer 

After a narrow defeat at the hands of defending national champion Wayne State, the Notre Dame fen­cing squad rebounded this weekend in Chicago with four decisive vic­tories. 
The wins over the University of Detroit, University of Chicago, Uni­versity of Michigan-Dearborn, and Air Force Academy brought Notre Dame's team record to 20-2, marking Head Coach l\1ike DeCic­co's third consecutive season with 20 or more wins. 
"I'm very happy with the way our team came back after the defeat," said DeCicco of the performance of his Irish. "Air Force was especially satisfying, because they were also coming off a 14-13 loss to Wayne State, and they wanted to prove themselves to Notre Dame." ' 
But, as the scores indicate, none of the competition this weekend was able to come close to the second­ranked Irish. Notre Dame thumped Air Force 19-8, Detroit 21-6, Chicago 26-1, and Dearborn 19-8. 
The women also came back this weekend after their loss to Wayne State by sweeping their competition 4-0. The four victories raised the women's record to 16-5, placing them one win away from the winnin­gest season ever for a Notre Dame women's team. The current record of 16-4 was set in 1981. 
This week, however, the women will have to remain content with their current record as the entire Irish squad has a break until the final match ofthe season on February 26. 
"This isn't really the time to have a break in the schedule," admitted DeCicco. "Ifl could have it my way, I would have scheduled another tough weekend." 
While the squad remains idle, II members of the team will compete in the Junior Olympics in Tampa, Fla this weekend. 
Among those competing will be 
Mike  Higgs-Coulthard,  Mike  Gos­ 
tigian,  Andy  Quaroni,  and  Kathy  
Morrison.  







