Seychelles-page 5 


VOL XVIII, NO. 8 the independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1983 
Hall presidents receive fall_ festival proposal 
ByJANE KRAVCIK Saturday would include a float from News Staff each of the four classes. Building of the floats would begin with a picnic 
fireworks, a pep rally, and a on Friday afternoon. 
bonfire are among events proposed The informal dance, tentatively for a student government-sponsored set for Saturday from 10 p.m. until 2 fall festival presented at the Hall a.m. in the Sou th Dining Hall,would Presidents Council last night. be preceded by pre-dance mixers in 
The festival, which should be 
the dorms. similar to a mini-An Tostal, would be The week would end with a Sun­held the week after mid-semester 
day brunch and Mass celebrated by break, Oct. 31 thru Nov. 6, leading 
i Father Hesburgh. up to the Pittsburgh game. Activities would include T-shirt The possibility of a Fall Festival sales, a pep rally, fireworks, a King and Queen was discussed. The bonfire, a parade, an informal dance, voting would be done by petition, and a brunch and Mass. The ~stival with each person signing paying 25 also would include theme days and cents to charity. special meals. The T-shirt designs would be An organizational meeting for the chosen from patterns submitted by Fall Festival will be held on Monday, campus halls and organizations. The September 12, at 6:30 p.m. in two best designs and the best slogan Lafortune's Little Theatre. Liza Sal­would be printed on the shirts, with vadore and Tina Persson are in the organization which submitted charge ofplanning the festival. the design recieving the profits from the shirts. The HPC also discussed the initia­The pep rally would be held on tion of an award to be given each friday, followed by fireworks and month to a hall staff member who bonfire. deserves recognition because of A parade around the campus on their work in their haiL 
South Korean demonstrators burn an effigy of a Russian soldierand a Soviet flag during an ali­Soviet rally Monday in Seoul to protest the shoot-


Soviets admill to airliner shooting after UN healrs Japanese evidence 
Associated Press lit was "a lengthy, gross and ob­presented tapes of the Soviet pilots' viously pre-planned violation of the radio conversations to the Security 
The Soviet Union, just minutes af­airspace ofthe Soviet Union," Soviet Council, the Soviet government ter the United States brought Ambassador Oleg A. Troyanovsky al­statement admitting the plane was "definitive proof' before the world leged at the U.N. Security Council. shot down was read on the Moscow community, admitted officially The Soviet admission came six nightly television news. 
Tuesday for the first time that it shot days after Korean Air Lines Flight Mrs. Kirkpatrick later said the down a South K:Jrean jetliner. 007 was downed over the Sea of Soviets had been forced to make the 
But the Soviets said their intt~rcep­Japan after crossing into Soviet ter­admission because "the detlnitive tor pilots were convinced the ritory on a flight from New York to proof was finally put on the record civilian Boeing 747 was a U.S. spy Seoul, South Korea. All 269 people for the whole world to see." plane, and the "entire respon­aboard were killed. While the U.N. council de.bated sibility" for the tragedy rests with Before Tuesday, official Soviet possible international sanctions, the the United States. statements had either ignored or governing body of the International 
The Kremlin continued to claim rejected U.S., Japanese and South Federation ofAirline Pilots' Associa­the Korean jet may have been flying Korean reports that the giant jetliner tions, meeting in Britain, called for a an intelligence mission for the was destroyed by a heat-seeking 60-day ban on tlights to Moscow to United States, and issued a blunt missile fired by a Soviet fighter­demonstrate "revulsion" at the warning: the Soviet air force acted in interceptor. Soviet action. 
Kelly Fitzgerald, Farley Hall President, keeps track ofthe discus­
accordance with Soviet law and But less than an hour after U.S.

sion on the new ball party rules at last night's HPC meeting. See see U.N., page 5
would do the same again. Ambassador Jeane ). Kirkpatrick
story above. 


Chrysler accords bring workers closer to industry standard 
Associated Press making about the same S12.42 when similar pact for that country's concessions to the automaker in more than tlve hours of bargaining their contract expires in September 10,000 Chrysler workers. Those 1980 and 1981. The company, then Monday, the second round of 
DETROIT A United Auto 1984, but any improvements the workers, too, had fallen behind on the brink offailure, lost S~.27 bil­negotiating in six weeks for the com­Workers panel Tuesday overwhelm­UAW might negotiate until then workers at GM and Ford because of lion from 1979 through 1981. pany and the union. Chrysler Chair­ingly endorsed a new two-year labor would put those workers back ahead concessions made during Chrysler's Ratification by Chrysler's S6,000 man Lee lacocca had called the contract that would put Chrysl~r ofChrysler's. bleak days. hourly and salaried workers, plus an­union Thursday, saying he had a Corporation workers a big step In addition, the UAW said, Chrys­"Chrysler finally got the message o ther 30,600 on indefinite layoff, proposal for the UA W. closer to parity with their counter­ler workers stand to receive S1.38 in that its workers expected and wm; set for Sept. 13. Ifapproved, the parts at General Motors Corporation regular cost-of-living payments deserved a fair share of the com­agreement would take effect Sept. 1 
The agreement would give each

and Ford Motor Company. during their new contract. Ford and pany's record profits," the UA'W said and expire Oct. 1 5, 1985. 
Chrysler worker an average S8,62SThe new accord, tentatively GM workers would have to in its letter to Chrysler workers Plans for presenting the Canadian in wage increases over the next two

agreed to by union negotiators and negotiate their own cost-of-living announcing the tentative pact. proposal to union members for years.
the automaker on Labor Day, would formulas in a new pact. The pact was approved ratification were being worked out, give Chrysler workers a S2.42-an­The union said in a letter to the overwhelmingly by voice vote by tho~ union said. hour raise over the life of the con­rank and file that the pact "will the UAW's 170-member Chrysler Chrysler's current contract with Canadian workers at GM, Ford tract, said the UAW. That would put provide currrent wage, pension and Council, composed of the UAW expires jan. 14, but and Chrysler are paid slightly higher their base hourly pay, exclusive of insurance parity with Ford and GM." representatives of Chrysler plants workers began demanding a pay wages in recognition of higher infla­cost-of-living payments, at about nationwide, UAW president Owen raise after the No. 3 U.S. automaker tion rates north of the border, but 
S12.42 when the pact expires in Oc­Meanwhile, in Toronto, the UAW Bieber said. announced a record S482.4 million the Canadians are pa id in Canadian tober 1985. and Chrysler Canada Limited Chrysler workers fell behind GM profit for the first halfof 1983. dollars, which are now valued at GM and Ford workers will be reached a tentative agreement on a and Ford workers when they gave The agreement was reached after about 81 cents on the U.S. dollar. 



The 0 bserver Wednesday, September 7, 1983-page 2 


In Brief · 
More than 50 midshipmen were recognized 
yc:stenlay t(lr their achkvements in aeademics ami physical fitness over the past year at yesterday's NROTC award~ ceremony. Midship­men 1st Class David Blackwood recdved the Society of American Military Engineers Award for his performance throughout his first thrt-e years at Notre Dame. Awards for physical t1tness were preM:nted to Midshipman 2nd Class William Courtney, Midshipman 2nd CI;Jss Brian Hcarney, Midshipman 2nd Class Robert McMonagle and Midshipman -~rd ClassJeffrey Herrmann. -1be Obser1•er 
A decline of 600 students at Purdue University's 
West l.ah1yette campus could cause budget problems, school offi­
cials say. The decline represents nearly S900,000 in anticipated stu­
dt·nttuition and fees. "It's a matter ofconcern because we built our 
hudgt·t on 19H2-H:I enrollment Hgures," said John W. Hick, ex­
t•nJtivc assistant to the school's president. Most ofthis year's decline 
was caused hy fewer women selecting Purdue. The registrar the en­
rollment Hgurc included nearly 19,000 men and represented a drop 
ofapproxim;llely Ic;o as compared to a decline of4<;0 fewer women. 
-AI' 
A lawyer for a nurse charged with injecting sevei' children with a paralyzing drug wants her trial delayed so another _.nal\·sis of tissue can he tak<·n from the body of an infant. Genene Jom:s is scheduled to he tried for murder Oct. 1"'? in the Sept. 1"', 19H2, death ot Chelsea Ann McClellan. Ms. Jones also is accused of causing serious seizures in six other children. Traces of the drug succinylcholine w~:·re l(Hmd in the hody hy a doctor from Sweden, 
and Chenault wants another test hy someone else. -A.P 
Folks in this town just did what comes naturally when their hrand-new sewer opened -they struck up the hand and paratkd in the streets. "Chcstn has its sewer. What a rush. No more brook pollution when }'OU !lush," intoned a female singing group calling itsdf the l'lushettes. The new system of leaching Helds replaced the llushing ofsewage into Pattaconk Stream. a tributary of the Connecticut River. The projt·ct was financed by S34';,000 in state and kderal grants. -AP 
The new train station n~ar llarvard University cost S""l million. but the grand opening Tuesday turned into a story of the littk t·ngine that couldn't. One of Massachusetts Bay Transpor­tion Authorit\ 's ckctric commuter trains was juM a bit too tall for the station ar;d its antenna ~mat·knl into two closed-circuit rvt:il­lance carnnas. There arc I 1 closed-circuit survclliance cameras for sn:urity. ~omt· wert· mountcd over the tracks, and were quickly rcmovcd. -.-11' 
In an official statementTuesday. Bahamian prime minister l'indling denied alkgations that he "criminally conceived coit...pirat'\ against thc Bah.unas." The prime minister said his office was .dso ~~·nding •• letter to President Reagan denying the reports of government involvement in drug smuggling and requesting that a h:dcral inquiry he called in thl' llnilnl States to uetermine the source of tht• alleg;ltions. according to the statement. lie said he never had any inlormation indicating that Bahamian government member~ wne involved in any drug smuggling. 
468 traffic fatalities occurcu across the nation durin! tht· thrt-c-day Labor Day weekend, IS fewer than last year and within the range estimated hy rhe National Safety Council. The council had estimated that hetwt·en -ISO anu SSO people coulu he killed during the holiday period, which began at 6 p.m. Friday and ended at mid­night Monda). -AP 
Of Interest · · ·, 
Sign ups for Senior "Informal"-weekeud in 
Chicagp on ~ept. 2+26 continue today and tomorrow !rom 12-I ::10 and 6-H p.m on the lirst lloor of LaFortune. The base price of the l'\Ull :s S-1H. \\hich includes roundtrip hu~ transportation, hotel room, dinnn and party Other option~. such as the limited number ol tickl'h available to Second City TV, arc extra. The chairmen ofthe event stress that tlw weekend is truly intilrmal-dates are not re­quircd. ~ludt·nt~ must pay for the trip when tht.•y register. -The 
( )IJSI'I'I 'l'l' 
The World Hunger Coalition of Notre IJame 
is again sponsoring the Wt·dnesday lunchtime fast this year. Sign ups art· todav and tomorrow in both dining halls during lunt·h and dinner hour~. T.he bst -which requires not eating lunch t•ach Wednesday -raisnlmore than lll ';,000 last year. -The Obsf!n•er 
I I 

Weather . 
Mostly sunnyand pleasantwednesday. Highs 
low HOs. <.Jt-ar and nlol \X'ednesday night. Low in the upper ';Os to around (>0 :\losth sunnv Thursda\·. lligh in the mid HOs. Sunny Friday through Su~day, w.ith hot day's and dear, mild nights. llighs in the l)(b. Lows in tht• upper ';Os to the 60s. -AP
..______~_..~~: 
'Kiel and the Irish' -Take4 
I wandered into the Huddle Deli one night last week to grab a Coke on the way up to the olftce. As I paid the cashier. something on the third shelf of the magazine rack caught my eye. I did a double-take, and, sure enough. I w.as correct: Blair Kiel was on the cover ofThe 
Sporting News. 
The headline was large and direct: "Blair Kicl; Irish quarterback aims for national title." 
I quickly pulled out my wallet and slapped down the Sl.SO to purchase a copy. Delighted, I rushed w my office to read the story. 
My delight did not stem from the fact that a Notre Dame player was on the cover of the most renowned sports publication in America. Nor was my excitement due to Notre Dame's No. I ranking. 
I was delighted because, perhaps, Blair Kid is starting to get the respect and recognition he so rightly deserves. 
As a senior and ti>rmer sports writer, I have watched 

David Dziedzic 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Wednesday 

prove myself all over." 
Kiel's sophomore year was perhaps his most dis· appointing. He and Koegel were named co-starting quarterbacks. Faust's idea didn't work, however, as both Kicl and Koegel were uncomfortable throughout the entire year. The result: a horril)·ing 5-6 record. 
Entering his junior year, Kid was the only choict· for starting quarterback. Coach Faust said it, new quarter­back coach Ron Hudson said it, and even Kicl's teammates said it. However, Kid continued to hear the 
Kiel suffer through some same old complaints. v t cry rough times. Too many, Finally, in last year's as a matter of fact, and it's Oregon game, Kiel was ahout time things changed. pulled at t halftime. "It was, 
You all have heard the perhap~. a good ex­
story. As a freshman, Kiel perience," says Kiel. "I had was thrown into the last to toughen up." minute of the Michigan And toughen up he did. game. He took the team 46 Ile returned late in the game 
yards in the 11nal 41 seconds and led the team down the 
to set up Harry Oliver's field for a last-minute game­dramatic 51-yard game­tying field goal. winning l1eld goal. People who doubt Kid's 
Soon after, Kicl was the value to the Fighting Irish starting quarterback. In fact, need only remember last he has played more minutes y~;:ar's Penn State and Air than any other Notre Dame Force games. Kid missed 
freshman quarterback in 70 both because ofa thumb in­years. jury, and the Irish offense Notre Dame won its tlrst looked anemic. seven games that season. A With the USC game on the

tie at (;eorgia Tech and losses to USC and Georgia (in the Sugar Bowl) halted Coach Dan Devine's final bid for a national championship. However, the Irish posted a very respectible 9-2-1 record. And Kiclled the way. 
This 'Nasn't good enough for a lot ofpeople, however. Disappointed alumni and scltlsh students were quick tn point out that Kiel failed to throw a touchdown pass throughout the entire season. Armchair quarterbacks from Carrol to the Towers said that Kid wasn't good enough co he leading the fighting Irish. 
In january of 1981, new coach Gerry Faust arrived on campus and quickly announced that quarterback Tim KoegeL who played for Faust at Cincinnati's Moeller lligh School, would return for his final year ofeligibility. This meant that Kiel would have to tight for a job that he thought he had won. 
Kid. however, didn't complain. ''Coach Faust had a different philosophy," he recalls. "He probably felt more comfortable with Tim in there. I knew I had to horizon, people all of a sudden began asking, "When's Blair going to be hack?" 
Well, ti>lks, Blair is back now. And he's hack better than ever. He s the type of person that will take ad­vantage of all of his frustrations. disappointments, and mistakes. He's sincere when he says that he wants Notre Dame to win the national championship. "The team comes t1rst" is a mott<) that he has always l(Jllowed. 
Respect from the alumni and his fellow students is important to Kiel. However, even if he doesn't ger the support he d!!serves, Kiel will bust his tail and do his best. 
You can count on it. 
The_Obser.y:er Composition l:'dilor ........... Troy Illig Composition A.ssisltml ............. L1Ur;1 PuJ.. 1)'/Jt!.'oel/ers .. ......... Kc..·vin \'\'illiam~ .\"eu• . ., l:."rlilor... .................... 'I om ~o\.vle: Copy Editor............... ..................... Pal Sain .\jmrts Copr Edllor ...................Jane llealy Editorials LtJyout. .. ...... Tom Small .-\D Dt~J' Editor... . ........................ Pat S.ain Ad fJesign . ................................. llill O'llrien Pboto}!.rtlfJber... .. .. Hamil Cupt;ro Gues/ :1f'jJearauces . ..... ~1ilton the Drit:r ..Tht.· l.orJ wor~~ in m~ stt.·riou~ WOI-)"~ ... "The: llt:liHiing~ h:tvt.· tlown...  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Frtday excepl dur1ng exam and vacatton pertods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa tnt Marys College Su~scrtpttons may be pu~chased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wrtttng TheOb· server, P 0 Box Q. Noire Dame. ln­d•ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of lhe Assoctaled Press. All reproduction rtghls are reserved  

Announcing a new Max LE~_rner 1credit hour course: American Studies 306 "Eras in America" Thursdays 9:30-10:45 AM B_eginning 9/8 Sign up in 339 O'Shag 


TheObserver Wednesday, September 7, 1983-page 3 
U.S. warns Syria as Marines slain 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT. Lebanon -A barrage of rockets and mortars killed two U.S. Marines and wounded three at Beirut airport Tuesday. The White Ilouse warned the Syrians to stay out of the lighting, saying the: United States has "considerable firepower" in readiness off Lebanon's coast. 
The shelling of the pe<~cekeepers 
occurred during general fighting 
among Christians and Druse militias 
in the hills overlooking Beirut. 
Police said 148 people were killed in 
the last 24 hours. 
The Marines were the third and fourth killed in dght days. One of the Marines wounded Tuesday was evacuated to the: li.S. support ship lwo Jima, where he was in guarded condition with shrapnel wounds of the stomach, U.S. spokc;sman said. 
Identities were not immediately available. 
Six Italian members of the multi­national peacekeeping force also were wounded in their area of the city. An Italian spokesman said three were hit by fragments when a shell 
.'. ~~; ~L~::-~~, ,-r 1C-:i :,·*r.!!~~~r"-~. 
fell on a logistics compound, and three by fragments while riding in a jeep. 
Police said 148 people were killed and 382 wounded in the past 24 hours, raising the toll to 230 dead and 598 wounded since the Israelis pulled out Sunday. Druse tlghters, in their first victory, took the Christian town of Bhamdoun. 
In the renewed fighting, there have been reports from both the Druse and Christians of massacres in mountain villages, but the reports could not he cont1rmed. 
In Jerusalem. Isradt officials said Israel would not re-enter the moun­tains unless Syrian and Palestinian forces intervene. Defense Minister Moshe Arens was quoted by the Jerusalem Post as saying Israel could consider a total evacuation of its forces from Lebanon without a similar withdrawal by Syria, as long as it felt Israel's northern border was secure. 
There wa~ no government com­ment on the report. The Marines at Beirut airport retnrned artillery fire at one point 
r­
and spent much of the day under Condition One -their heaviest alert -concealed in bunkers listen­ing to the explosions of battle be­tween the Syrian-hacked Druse and both the Christian Phalange Party's militia and the Lebanese army. 
Marine ~pokesman Maj. Robert Jordan said the Marines fired two 
155mm rounds at an artillery bat­
tery that was "tiring at us from south 
of the airport" in an area controlled 
hy Druse t1ghtcrs. 
Jordan said the Marine camp was hit by shells hoth from the south and from near Bourj el-Barajneh to the northeast. 
Co t I. Timothy]. Gcraghty, com­mander of the Marine force, said the shells from the south were directed in such a way that it wa.s clear the American camp was being aimed at. 
Jordan said the mortars and rock­ets from the northeast, an aret con­trolled by the Shiite Moslems who are Druse allies, apparently were simply falling short oftheir intended targets. The Druse are a secretive sect that is an offshoot ofIslam. 
AP Photo 

Five members ofthe U.S. Marine Corps on duty nearby from leftist militia positions. Tbe un­in Lebanon with the Multi-National Peacekeep­active airport is in tbe backround. (See story• ingforces have breakfast near the BeirutInterna­above) tional Airport early Monday while shells fall 


Russ pilot's knowledge questioned 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Soviet Uni­
on's belated admission that one ofits 
warplanes shot down a Korean jet­
liner last week focuses new atten­
tion on the question of whether the 
Soviet pilot knew he was firing a 
missile at an unarmed passenge1 
plane. 
Was the Korean plane downed in international airspace' did the pilot ofthe Korean plane attempt to signal the Soviet interceptors? why, according to intercepted radio messages, did it take a full I 2 minutes for the Korean plane to drop off radar screens after the Soviet pilot fired his missile and reported "the target is destroyed?" 
While the Soviet admission, made in an official statement broadcast on Moscow television Tuesday, cleared up some questions surrounding the fate ofFlight 007, it rekindled debate about other puzzling aspects of the tragedy. 
The Soviet government said the 
jet interceptor that tracked the air­liner "fullfilled an order of the ground command to stop the flight" of the Korean plane and shot it down. 
''These Soviet pilots stopping the actions of the ir.truder plane couldn't have known that it was a civilian plane," the statement asserted. 
U.S. officials insist that the Soviets should have known the plane was a civilian airliner. Yet, the United States does not claim that the Soviets actually knew that the plane was a civilian one. 
"They made no serious eft'ort to identif)' the aircraft or to >varn it," ;m official White House statement said. "They did not appear to care what it was. Instead, they were intent on killing it." 
In their statement, the Soviets ~a1d their pilots repeatedly tried to warn­the Korean airliner and force it to land. 
President Reagan, in his nationally broadcast address Monday night, said, "There is no way a pilot could mistake this for anything other than a civilian airliner." 
American officials say this is so be­cause the silhouette of the Hoeing 747 passenger plane, flying through a clear night and illuminated by a half moon, was dearly visible to the Soviet pilot. Moreover, they say, the Soviets should have been able to dis­tinguish the 7-!7 on their radar screens. 
The Soviets said the Korean plane was ilying without navigational lights "at the height of night, in con ditions of bad visibility, and was not answering the signals." 
But according to transcripts released by the White House of radio conversations between the Soviet pilot and his ground com­mand, the pilot reported, "I see it visually and on radar." The transcript also quotes the pilot as saying the "target" was illuminated by air navigationalliehts and a flash­ing strobe light. 

EJ{tra shuttle expense re:flects contract costs 
By Hl~LEN LUCAITIS rates," said Saint Mary's junior \1ar­StaffRe(mrter cia Bon1ch_ "I can understand them doing so. hut is doesn't make it 
Students hoarding the Notre: easier on the students." Dame-Saint Mary's shuttle this year Barb Theb, also a Saint \lar~ ·, must dish out an extra ten cents for junior. said "the purpose for provid­the Ill''<\' 25-cent fare. ing a shulllc: service is 10 give 
"The price of the Transpo shuttle transportation 10 the s1udents and for Notre Dame and Saint \tary's has not revenue to the schooL" increa:,c:d over the last three years. "The: shultlc: sc:rvic~· was tirst es­but th1s is the tirst time "~e have in­tablished for students who had co­creased the costs h>r the students," exchange classes," O'Donnell said. said Mar~ Ann O'Donnell. Director "Studem (;overnmcnt then pcti ofStudent Acti\·itic:s at Saint Man··s. tioned so that the shuttle could run 
Notre Darrie and Saint l\lary·s sign on week nights and weekends !(>r so­
a yearly contract with Transpo. "We cial and safety reasons." 
charge the schools a rate: ol 52-i. -~ Notre Dame and Saint \lary·s pa~ 
per hour," s;1id Transpo Com roller for the shuttle service entirely on 
Bruce Zakrzewski." lt is an increased weekdays Lllltil6 p.m. Students nmst 
rate o1:cr last year's." pa) 2'5 cents alter 6 p.m. and on 
Studenb have mixed feelings on \veekcnds. "The twenty-tin· cent the fare increase:. ''I'm suprbcd they 1;1re only helps out the: costs of run­waited this long to increase: the ning the shuttle," said O'Donnell. 
Arms talks continue dt~spite plane downing 
Associated Press If no accord is reached. the l'.S. will 
begin its December deployment of 
GENEVA, Switzerland -l '.S. and ~...,2 cruise and Pershing 2 missiles in 
Soviet negotiators resumed talks five \)('estern European countries. 
Tuesday on reducing medium-range Although both sides have said 
nucle.;~r missilc:s in Europe. but they want an accord, chances !(>r a 
prospects f(Jr agreement appeared swift agreement appeared all hut 
diminished as the two nations con­dead since the downing of Korean 
tinued to exchangt· angry words ,\ir Lines flight oo-and the deaths ot 
over the Korean Air Lines incident. the 269 people on hoard. 
l!.S. Ambassador Paul ll. Nitze llqpes t<>r a compromise had 
smiled and cordially greeted Sm·iet gnnvn after recent Soviet proposals 
negotiator Ambassador Yuli A. Kvit­to dismantle some of their SS-2<h. 
sinsky \vhen they met at the gray 
stone villa in the Soviet compound, !\:either Soviet nor l .S. olticials 
but both avoided a horde: of waiting would say if the Soviet.~ had 
reponers and made no public com-withdrawn President Yun \ 
ment. Androp!n··s two-week-old olkr to 
The t:tlks, resuming alter a t\~·o­dismantle some ofthe ~;ovic:t l nion·s 
month summer recess. are the tina! SS-20s. Nor would either side com-
round in the 2-month-old lntc:r-menton the atmosphere of the ;.c..,. 
mediate Nuclear Force negnti~tions. sion. 
r!•ttiiHII...IIIIIIIIIHHMeN~jM......ftH........................IIIIHIH...HII...IIIIIIIIII! 
SXIAL CON.CERNS i FILM SERIES 
Co · sponsored by Student Government (Social Concerns), Student Union and Center for Social Concerns. 
A YEAR OF LIVING DANGEROUSLY 
Sept. 6 and 7 · 7:00 and 9:30 • Engineering Auditorium $1.00 • 
MII..IHI...IHH.......IIIdll III...IIIIHHI.............................................~ 
The Senior"Informal" Weekend is near!! Sept. 23-25 
The Package: $48 2 nights at Hotel Continental & Sat. night dinner/party or, separately, $35 2 nights Hotel; $16 dinner /party; $4 party alone 
Registration: Sept. 6-812-1:30 pm & 6-8 pm Lafortune Ballroom 
Also sign up for tickets for: 
Second City, Cubs Game, Great America, \latican Exhibit, buses to Chicago and more! 


TheObserver Wednesday, September 7, 1983 -page 4 

Teacher strikes decline as inflation stays low 
Associated Press 
As school doors open across the 
country, kwer teacher~ are walking 
picket lines. Union leaders predict 
that lower inflation plu~ the promise 
of education rdi>rm will add up to 
lahor peace thb year. 
As of Tuesday, the I.'-million 
member National Education A~­
~ociation reportt·d Mrikl·~ in 25 
school di~trich in Michigan, and onl· 
di.,trict each in Rhode hl;md. ll­
linoi~. Ohio and '\n~· Jer~l·~ By thb 
time la~t year. therl· were tH 1\:EA· 
sponsored ~trikl·s in st'\'l'n states. 
"We don't think we'll equal last 
\ t·ar's total of I2~ strikes." said 
Itoward ( :arroll. an NEA ~pokesman. 
\kanwhik', three locals of tht· 
';HO,OOO-nH·mher rival tt·acher uni­
on. the Anwncan f-ederation of 
Teachers, arc on strike "' far thi.s 
week 111 Pawtucket. IU. L1st 
I >etroll, and ;1 Ikhrn~ da\ sdwol in 
lktroit t·allt-d tht· Akiva '-,chool At 
this trnw last ~ear. st'\'l'll .-\I·T locals 
\\'l'IT on st ni-e. and there were I I 
strikes dunng the year 
But m.tjor nt1t·s h;tn· large!\ been 
spared ~t·acher st nkes so tar. 
"I think 1t'll Ill' a quieter year in 
term~ of labor." said :\f-'1 president 
Albert '-,hankn 
Sh;mker, who I'5 }ctr~ ago practi­
cal!\· invnllnl teacher union 
militanq with hitter ~trike~ in New 
Yorl-City and do;ewhere. had 
predicteo relative labor peace ear­lier this summer. Teacher union leaders attribute the labor calm to several factors: 
-Inflation is down to about a ~ percent annualate, which makes wage offers of S percent or more ~eem hearable. School districts so far have been relatively generous with their teachers. 
Michigan's NEA is an exception. said Carroll. The ~tate's dc:pre~snl l'Conomv b tinallr perking up. and teachers w;mt to make up lost ground. he ~aid. On the othn side. ~ome ~chool di~tricts are pushing hard li>r contract conces~ions from tht· teacht·rs. 
-The current national focus on nlucation relimn ha~ abo con­trii>Lllt·d to labor pt·ace. Educator~. politiuans and other~ art· advocat­ing hoo~ting teacht·r salarie~ to im­prove the quality ol public educt!ion. 
-At the samt· time, Shankt·r and others sa\ that tead1er union~ lind them~dvt·~ ~onwwhat on the ddt·n~ivc. l.a~t_lune. he ~aid. the l ·.s. "uprcmt· ( :ourt upheld a .\1 inne~ota law appro\'lng tui!l<m t;1x dnlue­tion~. The tax deduction applied to part·nt~ of privatt· school children. 
Sh;lllker ha;. warned repeatedly that exce~sin: tt·acher union militancy could erode support li>r public schools. 

Peruse The Observer Today page care­fully for the next three weeks ... 

There will soon be a contest to deter­mine this year's campus comic strip! 
••••••••••••••••••Clip & save--•••••••••••••-t 
I  
I  
THE DELl  I I I  
I  
I  
PARTY SUBS  I I I  
' f  
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses  I I  
& Choice of Toppings  I •I  
3 feet serves 20-25 ...$30.00  
4 feet serves 25-30 ...$37.50  
5 feet serves 30-35...$45.00  
6 feet serves 35-40...$50.00  
I  
ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS  
&SALADS  
255-7797  i I  
I  
Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance  t I  
Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 Jeff Etoll, owner, N D '78  I I I  

I •••••••••••••-••• clip &save --••••-•-•••••J 
Associated Press 
W ASIIINGTON -The Soviet l'ni­

on's destruction of a South Korean 
jetliner may give an important boost 
in Congress to the MX missle and 
other legislation needed to tinance 
President Reagan's rearmament 
program. 
Key lawmakers predicted Tues­day that congressmen, alarmed by the Soviet attack on the civilian plane. will vote for military projects facing uncertain futures last week. 
"I think the events of the past tew days have l'nhanced the, president's chances of getting the \IX funded" in the deknse appropriations bill that will he brought to the tloor thb 
1:111. said House ~lajority Leader Jim Wright, D-Tcxas. 
!'-oen. .John Tower. R-Texa~. ch;lir­man of the Senate Armed Service~ Committee. abo believes the Soviet attack will help Reagan's dl'fense program and tht· :\IX, e~pedally in 
Abiogenesis
Dance Collective 

STARTING SEPT. 7 
BALLET-WED. 6-7PM 
JAZZ-SUN. 6-7PM 
TAP-MON. 6-7PM 
JANE FONDA· MON. 7-BPM 
-THURS. 7-BPM 
TROUPE -WED. 7-BP REHEARSALS 
SUN. 7-BPM. 

$10 any or all classes Party Room Holy Cross NO Ca/16808 or 3119 for info. 
the House, spokeswoman Linda Hill 
said. 

In its two House tloor tests this 
year, the MX was approved by 5~ 
votes in May hut scraped through by 
only l~ votes in july. The margin for 
the weapon has been more com­
fortable and consistent in the 
Republican•kdSenate. 
Rep. Les Aspin of Wisconsin, a leader of moderate Democrats who have been instrumental in keeping the MX alive, said he thought the air­liner incident would cancel possible challenges to the missile in a military authorization bill scheduled for final passage in the llou~e and Senate next week. 
But. he added in a telephone inter­
view: "I don't know how long this 
will la~t. The mood shifts (in the 
Ilouse) very quickly." 
Despite "a pretty lair amount of evidence" that tlw Soviet~ ha\T u~nl chemical weapons in Afghanistan. were invol\'ed in the attempted a~­sassination of Pope John Paul II and commiued other wide!) con­demned acts, the~e have not had a long-lasting ellen on some mem hers. A~pin said. 
For that reasun. he said the defense appropriation hill in the 
House may be postponnl until-after 
the new lise:! year starts Oct. I in 
order to allow the issue to "cool 
down." 
Peter Murphy, staffdirector ofthe 
llouse defense appropriations sub­
committee chaired by anti-MX rep. 
joseph P. Addabbo, D-N.Y., said the 
panel still plans to begin drafting the 
spending bill next week when 
Congress returns from its five-week 
summer recess. lie said he knew of 
no plan to delay floor consideration. 
Reagan, at the l·nd of a nationally broadcast addres~ Monday night in which he denounced the ~hooting down of the wayward Korean Air Line jumbo jet and its 269 oc­cupants, put in a pitch ti>r hb defense buildup. 
At 'ihe same time, he realtirmt·d his administration';. desire to reach arms-control treal ies with the Soviet l 'nion on intermediate-rangt· and in­tercontinental nuclear \\'l'apons. 
Aspin ~aid the .\1X would have been needed even without the inci­dent and the fate of the nuclear weapon should not he linked with the attack. 
Phone ahead for Quick Pick up 
~?eak, 
DRIVE IN 
277·5400 
1733 So. Bend Ave. So. Bend, Indiana 
every monday and thursday 
CONEY DOG 
Daily Specials 
,

Sandwich
64~ 
French Fries and Pepsi OPEN ALL YEAR 
under $2.00 


~---------------..----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 
., ~-·
,· The Observer • "• Wednesday, September 7} 1983.·.__:__ page 5 

Shuttle mission yields least damage on record 
Associated Press 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE. Calif. -Challenger returned from space with the least damage recorded on any shuttle tlight yet and may head hack for Florida on friday after a record four-day turn­around, NASA said Tue~day. 
The six rats that went along as pas­sengers also "were in good shape ... They appeared to be in very good spirits when they opened up the hox," said Herman K. Widick. 
Widick, of the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. is directing ground operations to get the 100­ton spacetruck ready to be flown back to Kennedy bolted atop its modified Boeing 747. 
"There is a fair possibility we can improve the schedule" and begin the two-day flight on Friday, he said. That possible four-day turnaround would be a day shorter than the Na­tional Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration has managed before. 
Challenger'~ crew, meanwhile, is set to begin a series of debriefings Wednesday as NASA officials go over details of the six-day flight. 
Challenger ended its third i{Jace flight with a dramatic and near-
Astronauts leave tbe space shuttl'e Cballenger at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif, ear~)' Mondt~l' morning after returning from a six dt~J' mission 
North Korea supplies 
Seychelles with shells 
Associated Press 
VICTORIA, Seychelles -North Korea, the communist half of what was once known as the "hermit kingdom," has abandoned its isola­tion and expanded its role in Africa as a supplier of military expertise. 
Since 1971 more than a dozen countries on the continent, from Burundi to Zimbabwe, have invited the tough North Korean trainers. An estimated 3,800 African military personnel were sent to North Korea for instruction between 1971 and 1981, Asian diplomatic sources say. 
In April, the Seychelles, an Indian Ocean republic which considers it­self part of Africa, became the latest recipient of Pyongyang's ~rowing military cooperation program with the arrival of 55 North Korean in­structors and interpreters. 
Replacing unpopular Tanzanian 
troops, the Koreans have come to 
rebuild a 750-man force that 
mutinied briefly last year. 
Their presence has puzzled some 
diplomatic observers who note that 
North Korea, one of the more rigid 
Marxist states, sent advisers at a time 
when the Seychelles' socialist 
regime wa..~ moving to moderate its 
militant image which has hurt 
tourism, its biggest industry. 
Western diplomatic sources in 
East Africa say they are concerned 
by the Koreans' presence in the 
Seychelles because even a tiny force 
of professional soldiers has a dis­
proportionate intluence in a country 
ofonly 65,000 people. 
Security considerations have 
been paramount to the islands' 
president, France Albert Rene, since 
Peace talks threatened by rebels 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador ­Top government officials said Tues­day that leftist rebels acted in "bad faith" when they attacked the major city ofSan Miguel over the weekend, 
md some officials urged a halt in peace talks to protest the rebel of­fensive. 
Francisco Quinones, head of a 
three-man government peace com­
mission that met with guerrilla 
leaders last ,_,·eek S<Jid in an i:Jter­t1awless landing on a spotlighted runway at 12:40 a.m. Monday·. 
"Each time it seems to be getting better," Widick said at a news con­ference Tuesday. "We had very few problems during the flight (and the system of tiles glued to the ship as a heat shield) looks much cleaner this time." 
Only "something like 27 tiles (out of some 30,000) will have to he replaced," mostly because of small nicks, he said. 
Landing on Edwards' concrete runway rather than on the dry lakebed where most of the seven earlier missions ended seems to produce much less damage from rocks and debris, Widick said. 
Widick said the ship gets better all the time because "we improve it each time ... Whenever we t1nd a problem, we analyze it and try to correct it. It should continually get better." 
"The most significant problem we have here with respect to turn­around," Widick said, is a pair of leaking thruster rockets. 
The ship ha..• 44 of the small maneuvering rockets anJ Widick said two have "very minor leaks." 
45 South African-based mercenaries arrived on Nov. 25, 1981, intending to overthrow his government. Fight­
• • • U.N.

ing broke out when a customs offi­cial found a machine p;stol in a suitcase, and the soldiers of fortune continuedfrom pagel escaped back to South Africa by 
That retaliatory step is expectedhijacking an Air India jetliner. 

to be limited, however, since manyThe 49-year-old Rene, described governments may not allow their by one diplomat as "intelligent and pilots to comply.

modest but scared and suspicious," Any Security Council vote to had a concrete·bun:ker ·sunk in the adopt sanctions against the Soviet backyard of his estate, ''L'exile," in Union is sure to be vetoed. But Mrs. 
the lush hilis overlooking Victoria. It Kirkpatrick said it was conc:eivahle took only 35 men to install him in the Soviets would accept a resolu­
power in a 1977 coup which 
tion dealing with methods to toppled jet-setting President James prevent a repetition of such inci­

R. Mancham. 
dents. 

But his trust in the Seychelles People's Defense Forces diminished Japanese officials said their during the August 1982 mutiny in military forces provided the tape of which at least nine people died. the Soviet pilots' ·radio transmis­
Despite official denials, the Tan­sions, part of which was broadcast 
zanians, whose dozen advisers were Monday night in President Reagan's reinforced by 200 men after the nationally televised speech. Russian 1981 coup attempt, have been held and English-translation transcripts responsible by the public for the ofthe tape were shown on five video fatalities. Residents also resent the terminals in the Security Council Tanzanians doing security duty at chamber. the airport and elsewhere, their oc­casional brawling and their alleged The recorded radio transmissions 
trafficking in illicit drugs. showed that at least one ofthe Soviet 
Maj. James Michel, chief of staff, fighter pilots pursuing the big com­said the Tanzanians were being mercial jet closed in and reported. "I "phased out," with the North am going around it. I'm already Koreans taking over many of their moving in front ofthe targe1t." training duties. 
Then he said: "l am dropping 

In other countries such as Uganda, back. Now I will try a rocket." North Korean army instructors are filling positions once held by the Is­Ashort time later the pilot ofwhat raelis before most members of the the United States said was a Su-15 Organization of African Unity broke pursuit plane reported: "I have ex­ties with the Jewish state after the ecuted the launch ... the target is 
1973 Middle Ea..~t war. destroyed." 
view he saw "no reason" for further dialogue with the rebels. Quinones said that this was "a personal opinion" but that the commission would reach a formal decision at a meeting later. 
In a paid ad"~;ertisement published in leading newspaper~. the eight­man political commiSSIOn that advises President Alvaro Magana called the guerrilla attack on San Miguel over the weekend "an open­ly hostile attitude" ofthe left. which !-;u:-o :"icen figtuing fnr pc.\\·\.;r jn Et Sa! 
vador since October 1979. 
About 500 guerrilla troops un­leashed a heavy mortar and artillery attack on San Miguel, 86 miks cast of the capital, after a three-month Iulf in fighting. 
Army sources said 3 3 people were killed and -18 wounded in the fight­ing on Saturday and Sunday -the guerrilla underground Radio Ven­ceremos claimed more than 300 c;<,•crnmc.:nt e<L~Il.tltic,. 

REFRIGERATOR RENTALS 

WE ALSO RENT: 
13" Color T.V.  12" B &W T.V.  MICROWAvES Refrigerator Stand  
$90•  $28•  $70•  $18•  
S..:hool Year  School Year  School Year  School Year  

Call1-aoo-247-a7oo 
7 days • week 
A 10-week 
Eating Disorders 
• Anorexia Nervosa structured therapy 
• Bulimia 
group every Tuesday evening, beginning Sept. 27 on the
~ 
Notre Dame Campus 
Limited Enrollment Registration closes 
I 

Sept .22
I 

~ ~"~~ 
}'or Further information
. l2~,~~·~,~',',,,. 
Contact:.
.· •"
' 
An illness that makes nan Rybicki, Ps). n. 239 7336
peopiP starve, vomit or " 
pur£& because they Counseling-Psychological k th f t Services Center 
thm. ey are a · 
... 
in space. Tbesbuttle made its first night/muting on tbe mission and also carried tbe first black astronaut into space. (See siOIJ' at left) 


Wednesday, September 7, 1983-page 6
Viewpoint 
Fear on the international scene 
John F. Kennedy-hero or leader? 
Rarely, it seems, have international events created as mu<:h turmoil for the people of the Unitt·d States as have the developments ofthe past month, culminating with the destruction ofa Korean Airlines jetliner hy the Soviet Uni­on last week. 
Mike Wilkens 
Here, there, and back 
The slaughter of 269 people by a country (whose supposed purpose was only to protect its own air space) raises serious questions about the security of this nation and of the entire human race. 
But it is more than just this one harharic action that has generated su(·h a frightening sense of insecurity. The prospects of the (lnited States hcing li>rced 10 enter some kind of war have seemed to increase greatly in the last month or so, and this horrible incident on­ly hrings to light how shaky the world peace ~ituation actually i~. 
When John Kennedy t;tlkt·d of his ad­ministr;ttion as opening the door for a "New l'rontier·· he meant it a~ a politkal revolution. nut in fact ht· may go down in history as more involved with Amt·rica·s erotic than its politi­cal revolution. 
Max Lerner The Max Lerner Column 
Journalism at the time knew ahout many, tf not all. of Kennedy"s conqut·sts. But we had an implicit pact not to write ahout them. Many of Kennedy's friends have since heen willing to talk, and Ralph(;. \llartin has made a seductive hook out of it -.-1/l!'m ofOur Tim('," which he calls an "intimatt· story," with obvious stress on ""intimate,"" a kind of hot history ofa glamorous time. 
The tht·mt· is a great one -the life and 
P.O. BoxQ 
Welcome back! 
lkar Notre l>;unc ,1\.lcn ami Womt·n: 
\X"t·lcome hack' I h:td a chanct· to wdcome the tH·wconter~ at their Opl·ning Mass. Now 1hal 1·ou uppncla~sml·n and women arc linal· II ~ettlnl in. I would likl· to wish you all a won· derful new }<·ar at Not rt· I>arne, a year of growing 111 w•~dom. agt·, ami gran·. too. 
I am 'ure it wtll he a happy )Tar. too. a~ Wl" all teach and ll·arn together. I was l"normously nlified ,\loml;n night to sn· hundreds of you "gning up lor s•:n·il.T to othl·rs, ll·ss lortunate, in our communny Thb is an important part of educuion ht'fl', too. 
l.et'~ have a great year• 
Ever dt·votnlly in Notre Dame, Hl'\". Theodore M. llcshurgh, C.S.C. 
Jr. olympics 
Dear Editor.  
I  am  happy  to  learn  that  the  physical  
damage caused  to  the dormatories by the  
Junior  Olympians  in  late  July  has  been  

========Ihe-
-~ _ _!?,!!~!~~e~.~~~~ ......_
... David Dziedzic 
Hox Q, Notre Oame. IN 46556 ( l/9) 239-5303 
The Ohserr•er is the in<Jependent newspaper puhlished hy the swdents of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du l.ac and Saint Mary's College. If does not necessarily retlect tht· polioes of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac· t·uratcl-y "'.lnd as ohjectivcly as po!>.sihlc. Unsigned editorials represent the opinun ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters. and the lnsid•: Column present the views oftheir authors. Column space is availahlc to all members ofthe n>mmunity. and the frt't.' expre~~ion ofvaryingopinions un campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
tenure ofAmerica's most exciting president, if not its greatest. It can be seen as a triumph or tragedy, hut Martin sees it mostly ao; sheer so­cial theatre. 
The Kennedy family, jack's early years, the Bay of Pigs, the missile crisis, the Texa'i enact­ment. the myth after death -these have all heen done well before. What is now added is not the meat -there is little here to bite into -hut the dressing and tlavor, the aroma of the wine, the glitter and decor, the whole at­mosphere enveloping the man and his lovely young wife and his mistresses and his little hand of fiercely devoted accomplices in the adventure of governing and living with a riotous abandon. 
What emerges, however, from this melange is somehow more -an impressionist portrait of a highly endowed, complex man who became a hero for our time hecause he met our hunger tor JX>Iitics, royalty, sex and dan­gen>us living. 
For the first time in a long time, American people are being forced to seriously consider the possihiities of being forced into a war. 
Now that American Jives have been lost in lkirut and more American troops have been sent to try to hring peace and stability to that region, one can only fear that the likelihood of war continues to increase. As our fears wors­en, and we wonder how much longer American lives can he lost without some kind of retaliation, we must remember how vitally important it is to keep peace in this region and thereby promote peace throughout the world. 
Because this "war mentality" has begun to develop across not only our nation, but many other nations ofthe world as well, the gunning down of the Korean jet has an even more far­reaching effect than one would expect. The fear that arises as one considers the severity of the Soviet's inhumane treatment of fellow 
human heing.'i comes not only from the com­prehension of such a humiliating loss of life, hut from the thought of possihle reactions by the United States and other countries. 
repaired. I wonder who will repair the damage done to the graduate students who suffered, I feel, irreperably from the noise, rowdyism, and insults of the rampaging youth who did so much physical damage as well. I would certainly hope that, in the future, such hordes he kept off our campus during the 
Summer Session or at least confined to a con­trolled and policed area of the campus. It is too much to ask our paying graduate students to sacritke their studies tor the sake of these outsider~ and barbarians. 
William G. Storey Director. M.A. TheolO!,'Y 
'Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number, and signature ofthe author. Initials and pseudo­nyms are unacceptable. Reproductions, car­bon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subject to editing and become the proper~y ofThe Observer. 
Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe ExecutiveEditor, ................ Paul McGinn News Editor ...... ........... Bob Vonderheide 
News Editor ................. , Mark Worscheh -Composition Manager ......... Suzanne La Croix Sair.t Mary's Editor. .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto Features Editor. ............... Sarah Hamiltou System Manager ............... Kevin Wtlhams Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Indeed, it is hard nm lO desire some kind of retaliation in response to such an unbearable 
deed. The thought of this act going un­
punished is certainly beyond the level ofcom­
passion and forgiveness of most people. But it 
is at this trying time that the American people 
and their leaders must hold ground in an in­
ces.o;ant battle for world peace, without 
sacrificing the equal desire for human rights. 
The American government will have an op­
portunity to show the Soviets how important 
human rights are to this country when 
Secretary of State Schultz meets Soviet 
Foreign Minister Gromyko £O discuss chis vital 
subject. We cannot afford to withdraw from 
the talks, even in the face of a deed that ob­
viously shows the Soviets arc no closer to ack­
nowledging the importance of human righcs 
now than they were during the Cold War. By 
being able w overcome even this most ex­
treme violation of human rights and Interna­
tional Law, the American government will be 
setting an example not only for the Soviets, 
but for all nations to follow. 

This is not to imply that the Soviets' revolt-
What emerges also, better than anywhere else, is the story of a turbulent marriage, 
which was often an armed truce yet had its 
clements ofinner strength as well as its exter­
nal glamour. 

Yet the heart ofany study ofjohn Kennedy 
must he its implicit assessment not of a hero 
but of a national leader. Here the book fails 
largely because we have not yet -as a culture 
-faced the question of the true nature of 
leadership. 

It isn't embedded in a matrix ofglamour or courage or grace but in one of character and power. For myself I should rather have had jack Kennedy in the White House than any of his brothers. He wa<; the best ofthem, with the ~best mix ofqualities. Yet the 1979 poll which called him the greatest of our presidents was 
wildly off the mark. 

In a way he surmised this. "Iff had to live my 
life over again," he told a close friend, "I 
would have a different father, a different wife, 
r--­
. ILOV£YOU! 

Department Managers 
Business Manager . .............. Darnel O'Hare Controller. ...................... AJex Szilvas Advertising Manager. .............. Chris Owen 
ing disregard for human life should go un­punished. The time has come for the life-respecting nations ofthe world to rally to­
gether and fight for human rights while assert­ing the importance of keeping peace in a world so close to the brink o{war. 
We cannot afford to allow the Soviets to believe that such actions will be tolerated The American government must act now to 
keep the Soviets within some degree of con­trol. The American people and the rest ofthe world need to be reassured that this country 
can be a leader ofnations without resorting to violent tactics that continue to endanger the prospects ofbringing peace to this world. 
Mike Wilkens is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Wilkens, formerly a senior staff reporter, now writes a bi-weekly Viewpoint column. 
a different religion." His entrapment in his family upbringing left him somehow bruised, with a hunger to surpass his futher and older brother in everything. As a result, his White House had much of the style of the coun of Versailles under Louis XIV, and becameanoth­er Deer Park. 
Yet it is wrong to fault him basically for this. He had a vision ofliving a life compounded of Eros and power. But his real problem was that there was more Eros than power. He saw him­self retlected in the mirror of his time as a power man, yet when compared with any of the true modern greats -FOR, Churchill, DeGaulle, Ben-Gurion -he was ao; defective in an authentic sense ofpower a'i ofcharacter. 
It wao; only in the October missile crisis that he grew to stature and, by then, death followed too fa'it. 
Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
1 
Sports Briefs 
The Student Managers Orgaoizatioqis looking for freshmen interested in becoming a pan of Notre Dame athletics. There will be an organizational meeting today at 8 p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. -The Observer 
The volleyball team. is looking for statisticians and line judges for its home games this fall. A good knowledge oftennis or volleyball is preferred but not necessary. Matches are played on weekday nights and on the mornings ofhome football games. There is a small salary.lfinterested, call the volleyball office at 284-6281 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
The off-campus intram.ural football team is now being organized. There are mandatory tryouts going all week at 4 p.m. on Green Field next to Senior Bar. If you are in· terested, call233·7261.-The Observer 
Anyone interested in track, indoor or out­door, should meet today in the ACC Football Auditorium at 4 p.m. 
-The Observer 
Water Polo Practice is going on this week at the Rockne Memorial Pool from 4p.m. to 6p.m. Anyone interested must attend. Ifthere are any questions, callJohn -The Observer 
Purdue ticket lottery winners are posted in the LaFortune Ballroom near the Student Union Ticket Office/Record Store. Tickets are $12 and may be picked up at the Ticket Office. Each winner can buy one ticket and must bring a stu­dent !D. -The Observer 
Varsity athletes interested in the NCAA-VFY (Volunteers for Youth), there will be an introductory meeting Sun­day, September 11, at 6 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Auditorium. The group is interested in matching an athlete with a junior high student in the community. The ability to form a friendship with the youth is ofprimary importance. -TheObserver 
The Off-Campus Soccer Team will bet hold­ing a meeting today at 7 p.m. for anyone interested in participating. The meeting will be at 733 St. Louis Street. Those not able to attend should call Tom at 232-1955. -The Observer 
Football ticket distribution continues today for sophomores until 5 p.m. Two lines should be formed -sopho· mores should begin at Gate 3 and line up towards Gate 2. Grads should line up at Gate 3 and file toward the tennis courts. Distribu­tion hegins at 8 a.m. Freshmen will receive their tickets tomorrow. 
-The Observer 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typmg, All KINDS 277·8534 'Jfter 5 30 M-F All day wknds 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student 
loans $20 to $200 "' 1nterest-due 1n 30 days Hours 11 30-12 30 Mon·Fn Offlce '"LaFortune basement 
I. LOST/FOUND ' 
LOST gold wafch..on Tuesday. August 30 at approx 4 45 Watch was lost 1n Bool<store. between Bool<store and South DmiOQ Han. or en route to L9W15 Hall It found. please call Leanne 7009 or 3845 RtWARD OFFERED!!! THANKS!• 
LOST Set ol keys contalfung 7 keys Key cham IS green and reads Royal Motors. Owego. New York Please call Dan at 277-1532 or Deanna at 284 4069 rt found 
LOST -NO nng With 1nrt•als P A M Dar!< purple Slone set m gold Call Paul at 239 5313. or at 277 4851 $40 reward. no questiOns asked lost glasses '" a two tone brown case 11 found please call J1m 7816 
found a photograph of three roomates down by tne lake last thursday n1ght call dav1d al8196 to cla1m 
FOR RENT 
House tor rent 5 bdrms . turn . $1 00 mo plus ut•l 2 m1 from campus Call 233· 2245 or 255 6823 
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO CAMPUS 277·3604 
FOR RENT COMPLETELY FUR NISHED APARTMENT 1 BEOAOOM.UVING AOOM,BATHAOOM.KITCHEN 2 BIG CLOSETS CALL JOE LACOPO 731 DIAMOND AVE 233·2203 
WANTED 
l 
L--------...,---..J. 0 ,W,V,~ ..·f?A,L.i;,?.HRISAT 234·7279 
I NEED a AIDE to ISU NORMAL. IL (or VICinity) Fn . Sept 9 W1ll Share Usual I need 4 GAs for the Navy Game Call Call Kathy 1324 Kev1n at 239·7141 or 283·3121 
GOING EAST 9-9? Need nde to EXIT 7 OHIO PIKE tor anywhere close) call HELP! Need 3 M1ct1 State t1ckets Name Steve 1516 your priCe ..thanks Call J1m at 8277 NEED RIDE TO MILWAUKEE 9/9 PM WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARY 6868 
HELP!I I need a nde to PURDUE/WEST LAFAYETTE on any weekend W111 share expense Call MICHELLE 8136 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE Bedroom suite. lots of k1tchen 1tems. TV tables Reasonable. negotiable pnces Phone 233·01 04 
TICKETS 
TICKETS NEEDED FOR USCMUST 
Wednesday, September 7, 1983 -page 7 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold its first or­ganizational meeting today at 6:30p.m. at the Boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. Their upcoming regatta will be the major,topic. New members are welcome. -The Observer 
The Notre Dam.e So<:cer team lost the first game of its 1983 season yesterday 1-0 to IUPU at: Fort Wayne. The next Irish game is at home this Friday against St. Francis on Cartier Field at 8 p.m. -The Observer 
The Tae-Kwon-Do Karate Club olf Notre Dame will be holding its first practice tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the fencing gym of the ACC. New members are c!ncouraged to attend. -The Observer. 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is holding their first meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Howard Hall social space. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer. 
The Windsurfing ClubofNotre Dame will meet at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, September 14 in LaFortune. All those who signed up for lessons please bring a small deposit. Membership fees will be Ill0. -The Observer. 
The ND WomeL's Soccer Club has a game against St. Mary's Friday at 4:30p.m. behind Stepan. -The Observer. 
Any women interestedin running track and field or cross country for Notre Dame should meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the south lounge of Walsh Hall. Ifthere are any questions, call Kelly Lally at 6232 or Tricia Booker at 6868. -The Obseroer. 
Joe YontO,Special Assistant to the Atletic Director, will give a lecture on "How to watch football" at 7:30 p.m. Monday night in the ACC football auditorium. -The Observer. 
Aerobics classesare in session in Gym 4 above Gate 3 at the ACC. Students may attend between 4 p.m. and 4:40 p.m. Any faculty members are welcome from 5:15 p.m. to 5:55 p.m. -The Observer. 
The Non-varsity Athletics Office has an· nounced deadlines for signing up for more full :>ports. Wednesday, September 14 is the deadline for graduate football, the golf team tourney, inter-hall men's soccer, outdoor volleyball, co-ree inner­tube water polo, and inter-hall cross country for both men and women. If there are any questions, call239·6100.-The Observer 
The Observer 
advenising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per seven charac· ters, per day. 
HELP Need 2 MSU 11cke1s for my parents Please call Bnan at 1507 
WANTED 1GA or STU T1x for Ml STATE W1ll pay well Call after 5 at 277-0953 
NEED 2 M1ch St GAs W1ll trade 2 Penn St GAs Call Martha 7915 
Need 1 MICH ST hc-GA or Stud ·Doug 277-4273 
Pay BIG BUCKS lor 6 MSU Gas Call Pat al277·7595 
I need 1 or 2 11ckets lor I he Purdue game Call John at 283·1766 
Help!l I need MICH ST and PITT tlx Call Donna 8050 
GA TIXS FOR PURDUE AND ALL HOME GAMES.PETE 251!i-9196 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 GAs AND 3 STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE CALL CHRIS OR DON AT 1657 
WE NEED MANY MICH ST TIX CALL 1773 
NEEDS 3 GAS AND 5 STUDENT TICK­ETS FOR MSU CALL VINCE AT 3129 OR MARY AT 3141 
HAVE MSU TIX AND CASH! NEED to TRADE for PITT TIX for parents Call GREG at 3317 
" • f ' • • • • t • • • • • ;, • • a ;· ~ • It 

Need 4 GAs lor MICH STATE GAME Call Kra1g at 1608 
$$Need PURDUE T1x$$ Call 1150 or 1154 
Need M1ch1gan St TIX Call1695 
NEED TWO MSU GA OR STUDENT TICKETS WILL PAY WELL CALL KEVIN 8822 
Need 2 MSU GAs lor Mom & Pop Name your pnce Please call 8•11 at 234· 7080 
SELL ME YOUR MSU STUDENT AND GA TIX CALL GERRY AT 1604 
NEED 4 MSU TIX STUDENT OR GA WILL PAY$$ FUFILL A KIDS DREAM CALL8425 
PERSONALS 
EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL YEAR FLEXIBLE HOURS MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACIN3 POSTERS 
Baseball Standings 
; 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
E•81  
w  L  Pet.  Gli  
Montreal  70  66  515  - 
P•nsburgh  71  67  514  - 
Ph•ladelph•a  70  67  511  5  
Sl LOUIS  6  68  81  33  
Chicago  62  76  449  9  
New York  58  80  420  13  
Weat  
Los Angeles  79  59  572  - 
Allan1a  78  60  565  f  
Houston  72  65  526  65  
San D•ego  69  71  493  11  
San Frans•sco  66  73  475  13 5  
C1nc1nall  64  76  457  16  

Yeaterday's Results Montreal 8. Chicago 2 Philadelphia 2, New York 0 Ffouston at Allanta, ppd . ra1n P•nsburgh 5. St Lou1s 0 C1nc•nat• 11. San Frans1sco 1 San D1ego 8, Los Angeles 3 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Ea81 
w L l'c1. GB Baltimore 81.54 81 54 600 ­Milwaukee 78 59 569 4 DetrOit 77 60 562 5 New York 76 60 559 55 Toronto 77 64 546 7 Boston 67 72 • 482 16 Cleveland 62 76 449 205 
We81 Ch•cago 79 59 572 ­KansasC11y 65 73 471 14 Oakland 66 75 468 14 5 Texas 65 75 464 15 Cahtorma 68 75 476 13 5 Mmnesota 59 81 421 21 Seanle 53 85 384 26 
. 

Yesterday's Results Toronto 6. Callforma 4 Balt1more 8, Boston 1 DetrOit at Cleveland. ppd , ra1n Milwaukee 6, New York 3 M1nnesota 5, Texas 3. 10 1nn1ngs Seanle 3, Kansas C•ty 1 Ch1cago 7. Oakland 6 
AP Top Twenty 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As· sociated Press poll. w1th first-place votes 1n paren theses. thiS season s records and total pornts Po1nts based on 20-19·18·17 etc Notre Dame oponents are 
italicized 
1  Nebraska 144)  1-0-0  993  
2  Oklahoma 13)  0·0·0  868  
3  Texas 12)  0·0·0  865  
4  Auburn (1)  0·0·0  757  
5  Notre Dame  0·0·0  659  
6  M1chrgan  0·0·0  593  
7  Oh10 State  0·0·0  586  
8  North Carohna  1 0·0  568  
9  Southern Cal  0·0·0  560  
10  Georg• a  1 0·0  528  
11  Anzona  1·0·0  459  
12  Flonda State  1-0·0  408  
13  LSU  0·0-0  400  
14  Alabama  0-0·0  340  
15  SMU  1·0·0  250  
16  Iowa  0-0 0  215  
17  Maryland  0·0·0  193  
18  Flonda  1·0-0  179  
19  Washington  000  152  
20  Penn State  0-1-0  148  

LaFonune office accepts classified 
IF YOU HAVE OR HAVE NOT REGIS· TERED FOR THE DRAFT, HAVE QUES· liONS ABOUT CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION, DEFERMENTS, EXEMP· TIONS, THE CHURCH'S POSITION ON BEARING ARMS...CONTACT MAR· GARET GARVEY, CAMPUS MINISTRY, BADIN HALL (239·5242) FOR DRAFT AND MILITARY COUNSELLING. 
Uncle Gwdo wants to come see the lnsh destroy P1tt, but Uncle GUidO wasn t able lo purchase a t1cket If you want to keep Uncle GUidO happy (It 1s 1n everyone s best Interest to keep Uncle GUido happy) then please sell your student or general admiSSIOn ticket to h1s contact Call Sarah at1311 
RICH UNCLE WANT$ TICKETS TO U$C GAME. CALL x1763 ANYTIME AFTER 6 
HELP WANTED · ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS REP to sell sk1/beach tnps Earn FREE TRIPS & commiSSIOns SUN 
I

& SKI ADVENTURES 1·800·621·4031 
• I 
• I 
DON T MISS · THE YEAR OF LIVING 
DANGEAOUSLY 
TONIGHT AT 7 00 AND 9 30 $1 00 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM SOCIAL 
!

CONCERNS FILM SERIES 
ON CAMPUS BONUS RESULTS PRIZES AW WELL 800-526·0883  BASED ARDED  ON AS  
.-• ..• _: ..,.· _,';  • _  

I 
11 59 BLONDE are you dead? 1f ·so c~n me LOVE VOICE 
I 
I I I I I 

----------------------------~-~~~--~---------------------------------------------------~~----------------~-------__j 


The Observer Wednesday, September 7, 1983 L 
-
~mooth Moves! Sopbomore Alan Pinkett returns after a successful freshman campaign to fill tbe spot oftailback il1 tbe lrisb backfield. See Ed Donumsky's story• on paf?e 12. 
US Open continues 
Navratilova, Shriver to meet in semi 
NEW YORK (AP)-They are best friends, doubles partners, and two ol the top players in women's tennis. It's just that Pam Snriver keeps get­ting in Martina Navratilova's way. 
One year ago, when Navratilova was supposed to win the United Staes Open Tennis Championship, her pal Pam destroyed the dream in the quarter-finals. 
Now Martina is supposed to win the Open again and she's advanced a step closer this time, reaching Friday's semifinal round. 
And there, waiting for her again, is Shriver. 
Navratilova continued her straight sets march through the tournament with a 6-0, 6-3 destruc­tion of No. "7 Sylvia lianika of West 
>D~O 
A 
• : • : A : 
tfJe stude11t lia1sol1 committee 
... 
0
&-& f & & 
·~:The Snite Museum of Art r 
A A A 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
A 
A~ &Thursday, SeptemberS; r2:15 p.m." 
A 
Conference Room 
A A A A A .......... A 
Luncheon provided ... 
.. ..
please jof11 us! 
Germany yesterday. Meanwhile, Shriver, seeded fifth, upset No. 3 AndreaJaeger 7-6,6-3. 
On the men's side ofthe draw, No. 2 Ivan Lend I of Czechoslovakia, No. 4 Yannick Noah of France, No. 5 Mats Wilander of Sweden and No. 9 Jimmy Arias completed the quarter­final lineup. 
Lend! defeated No. 12Johan Krick 
6-2, b-4, 6-1; Noah eliminated 16­
year-old Aaron Krickstein 6-3, 7-6, 6­
3; Wilander finished Andres Gomez 
of Ecuador 6-2, 6-l, 6-2; and Arias 
won 12 straight games in the last 
two sets to down Joachim Nystrom 
ofSweden 3-6,6-3, 3-6, 6-0,6-0. 
In the men's quarters, Arias plays 
Noah and Wilander meets Lend!. 
Shriver and Navratilova are en­tered in the women's doubles tournament at the Open and reached the quarter-finals of that competition with a 62, 6-2 victory over Carling Bassett of Canada and Ivanna Madruga-Osses of Argentina Tuesday night. 
"You want to play well in doubles before you play her (in singles)," Shriver said. "Maybe she'l think you're playing great and be scared." 
Navratilova, who has lost just two singes matches since Shriver beat her here last year, h!Ughed at that. "You can't think that you better not give anything away in the doubles like 'God, I can't hit my t()rehand,"' she said. 
Shriver is looking forward to the 
showdon with her friend. 
"I like my chances here whenever I play her," she said. "She doesn't have good memories of me here and it tends to bring out the emotional side of me which helps me con­
centrate hard and that's when I'm at my best." 
Lendl has dominated the men's side of the draw much the way Nav­ratilova has owned the women's side. Like Martina, he has not lost a set in the tournament and in four matches, he has had his service broken only once. 
"I feel I am playing very well, but I don't know if it's my very best," he said. 
Still, he is haunted by the specter of never having won a Grand Slam event like the Open. 
"I am winning a lot. I'm ranked fairly high. I'm making a very good living and there is much satisfaction in it," he said. "Obviously, there would be more satisfaction if I were winning the big ones, but I am trying ~y best and there's nothing else I can do." 
Rookies sign 

Indiana Pacers come to terms 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The In­diana Pacers announced yesterday they have reached an agreement to terms with rookiesJim Thomas from Indiana and Granville Waiters of Ohio State to multi-year contracts. 
According to the policy ofthe Na­tional Basketball Association club, no terms were revealed. 
That leaves the signing of draft choices Steve Stipanovich, Sidney Lowe, Leroy Combs and GregJones; free agents Butch Carter and Jerry Sichting, and the appointment of a 

WHITE SOX vs. ANGELS 
Friday Night, Sept. 9 $15 Ticket includes: 
bus ride game ticket refreshments 


Tickets Available At S. U. Record Store 
Tunnell propells ·!~o~~~~~Ro~~~t Cards 
Tunnell tired a three-hitter to l<:au the Pirtsburgh Pirates to a S-0 tri­umph over the St. Louis Cardinals
1 last night. 
director of player personnel. 
As for the draft choices and free agents, Pacer President Bob Salyers said, "By mid-month we should have everybody but Stipanovich (the Pacers' No. 1 choice from Missouri) and the free agents signed. By the end of the month, we should have the others." 
The job of director of player per­sonnel may be filled within a week. Previously, Dallas' Rick Sund -who holds a similar position there -had been a leading candidate but he 
Tunnell, 8-5, pithed his second shutout of the season and his third complete game. The right-hander struck out five and walked three as Ken Oberkfell singled three times for St. Louis' only hits. 
Jim Morrison, playing third base in place of Pirates regular Bill Mad­lock -who suffered a torn tendon in his left calfMonday night -drove in two runs with a home run and an RBI groundout. 
The Pirates scored twice in the second inning with the help of two singles and two errors. After Tony Pena singled and Morrison walked, Dale Berra singled home Pena. Mor­rison then scored from second base on errors by first baseman George Hendrick and loser John Stt1per, 9­
10, while mishandling Tunnell's bunt. 
Pittsburgh added runs in the l(mrth on Morrison's t1fth homer and in the sixth when Mike Easler doubled and later scored on Mor­rison's groundout. Berra doubled and scored on Joe Orsulak's sacrifice fly in the ninth. 
Mont. 8, Chi.2 
MONTREAL (AP)-Manny Trillo 
drove in four runs with a solo home 
run and two doubles, and Charlie 
Lea tied a team record with his 
seventh straight victory as the 
Montreal Expos routed the Chicago 
Cubs 8-2 last night. 
Trillo's 4-for-4 performance 
helped Lea. 14-8, tie the Montreal 
record set by David Palmer for con­
secutive victories by a starter. Scott 
Sanderson pitched the final three in­
nings for his t1rst save. 
Trillo knocked in the first run 
during a three-run first inning 
against Dick Ruthven, 11-11. Tim 
Raines walked, stole second and 
scored on Trillo's double. One out 
later, AI Oliver doubled home Trillo 
and Warren Cromartie stroked an 
RBI single. 
Consecutive homers by Trillo, his 
second, and Andre Dawson, his 
29th, made it 5-0 in the third. 
page 8 

Phil. 2, N.Y. 0 
NEW YORK (AI') -Rookil: Tony Ghelt1 and veteran relievers Tug \tcGraw and AI llolland combined on a ~even-hitter as the Philadelphia Phillies downed the New York IV~ts 2-0 last night. 
Ghell1, making his second major-league start, gave up five hits in 4 1--'j innings. McGraw, 2-1, allowed one hit in 2 2-3 innings and got t the win.] Holland recorded the final six outs for his 18th save. 
New York's Ron Darling, making his major-league debut, went 6 1-3 innings and departed after pulling his left hamstring. He gave up one run, aided by two balks, and tlve hits in taking the loss. Darling struck out six and walked one. 
The Phillies scord.l in the fourth inning when Joe Morgan walked. moved to second on a groundout and then scored whl.'n Darling com­mitted two balks with Mike Schmidt at the plate. 
Philadelphia added an unearned run in the eighth when Morgan reached on third baseman Huhie Brooks' error, stole second and scored when Brooks misplayed: Schmidt's grounder for another er­ror. 
S.D. 8, L.A. 3 
LOSANGELES(AP)-Terry Ken­nedy drove in four runs with a home run and two singles to support the seven-hit pitching of Ed Whitson a~ the San Diego Padres beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 8-3 last night. 
The loss, the third straight for Los Angeles, reduced the Dodgers' lead in the National League West to one game over Atlanta, which was rained out Tuesday. 
The victory was the Padres' seventh straight over the Dodgers in Los Angeles. 
Whitson, 4-7, pitched his first 
complete gamest ince June 15 and 
only his second of the season. The 
San Diego. right-hander struck out 
two and walked only one and 
1llowed Los Angeles only two hits 
'Jver the tirst five innings. 
bowed out last week, leavin~ Portland assistant coach Buck) Buckwalter and Phoenix assistant A, Bianchi as the top choices. 
The Pacers will have to make l move soon, with rookies schedule~ in next Tuesday, the veterans due back Sept. 30 and training camp a West Lafayette strting Oct. 1. 
Both Thomas and Waiters, the team's first signings since June's col lege draft, figure to secure position: on the final roster. Thomas, a 6-foot 4 guard who made his repur· :o~ 
with solid all-around play at 1 .Jian was impressive in the ,,outher California Summer Pro League an will likely be used by the Pacers as point guard. 
"Jim is a complete basketbal player who will fit in both as a bi gur and as a ball-handling guard t() us," said Coach Jack McKinn ··."II can be called upon to do w .teve you ask ofhim." 
Thomas termed the summe league "a real good learning ex peric:nce for me. I wasn't startled b the change, but the game is muc quicker th~n I expected." 
Waiters was originally drafted h Portland and was recently acquire from the Trailblazer~ for a secon rounu draft choice. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~~--~----------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 'Vednesday, September 7, 1983 page9 
American League round up 
Kittle pounds fifth in a row 
CHICAGO (AP) -Ron Kittle homered in his fifth successive game, a towering shot onto the left­field roof, and LaMarr Hoyt became the major league's first 19-game win­ner la.<;t night as the Chicago White Sox took a 7-6 victory over the Oak­land A's. 
Kittle's homer was his 3~nd ofthe season and he became only the 20th player in the 73-year history ofCom­iskey Park to hit a hall on or over the roof. Teammate Greg Luzinski did it three times this year and Ted Wil­liams andjimmy Foxx accomplished the feat twice. 
Kittle's homer. his sixth in the last seven games. came in a two-run third offloser Chris Cmliroli. 12-l0. 
Hoyt. 19-10. won his eighth con· 
secutive game and matched his 
career high of 19 victories which led 
the American League last ~cason. lie 
allowed eight hits. including a pair ol 
solo homers to \'('avne (iros~ but 
departed in the eighth. 
l'our pitcher.' tlnbhed up. includ­
ing Dennis l.a•np. who notched his 
12th ~aH. 
Bait. 8, Host. 1 
BALTIMORE (AI')-Jim Palmer allowed eight hits in-1-:'> innings. and Eddie Murray and Rick Dempsey rapped two-run homers as the Baltimore Orioles defeated the Boston Red Sox !S·I last night. 
Palmer, 4-4, allowed the Red Sox's only run in the fourth, on a two-out double by Tony Armas and a single by Carl Yastrzemski. 
Murray lined his 2'th homer off 
Dennis Eckersley. '-12, in the first, 
following a two-out single by Cal 
Ripken,jr. 
Glenn Gulliver doubled with two 
outs in the second prior to a sudden 
rain shower and scored on a single 
by Rich Dauer following a 1 5­
minute delay. 
Dauer doubled to launch a three­
run outburst in the fifth. An infield 
single by AI Bumbry and RBI singles 
by Jim Dv.')'er and Ripken finished 
Buben drafted first 
Eckersley, and Ken Singleto!Midded 
a two-out RBI single offjohnHenry 
johnson. 
Dempsey's fourth homer, off 
Doug Bird, came after a two-out 
walk to Singleton in the seventh. 
Tor. 6, Cal. 4 
TORONTO (AP) -George Bell 
and CliffJohnson each drove in two 
runs to lead the Toronto BlueJays to 
a 6-4 victory over the California An­
gels last night. 
Bell. who had three hits, cluhbed a two-run triple in the first inning and Johnson had a two-run doublt: in the fifth. 
Doyle Alexander, 3-8. checked 
the Angels on six hits before being 
relieved in the eighth. Jim Acker. the 
third Toronto pitcher, picked up his 
tlrst major league save. 
Caliti>rnia starter John Curtis 
dropped to I-2: 
Bell's triple capped Toronto's 
thrtT·run first inning. Damaso Gar­
cia opened with a double. took third 
on a wild pitch and scored on Je~se 
Barfield's intield single. After 
Johnson walked. Bell tripled to 
right-center. 
The Angels struck back in the fourth on Doug DeCinces' 18th homer ofthe season. Fred Lynn then followed with his 22nd homer. 
The Blue Jays made it 4-2 in the fourth. and in the fifth Johnson doubled in two runs to boost their lead to 6-2. 
California scored two in the 
eighth. 
Seat. 3, K.C. 1 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AI') -Hot­hitting Steve Henderson drove in one run with a fifth-inning double, then scored on a wild pitch to carry the Seattle Mariners to a 3-l victory over the slumping Kansas City Royals last night. 
Right-hander Bob Stoddard, 
scattering five hits over 5 2-3 in­
nings, picked up his eighth victory 
fourth Mariner pitcher, hurled the 
final l 2-3 innings for his 23rd save. 
Kansas City starter Bud Black, 8-6, 
took the loss, the 1Oth for the Royals 
in their last 11 games. 
Minn. 5, Tex.3 
ARLINGTON, Texas (AP)-Dar­rell Brown delivered a run-scoring single in the top of the 1Oth inning last night to give the Minnesota Twins a 5-3 victory over the Texas Rangers and snap a tive-game losing streak. 
Reliever Ron Davis earned his fourth victory against seven losses while Ranger starter Frank Tanana took his seventh loss against as many victories. 
Tim Teufel led off the I Oth with a single and was sacritked to second by Lenny Faedo. Brown then singled for what prmTd to he the game­winner. John Castino li>llowed with a single off Ranger reliever Victor Cruz and <.rary Ward brought Brown home with a sacrifice lly. 
Mike Walters pitched the I Oth in­ning to earn his second save. 
Mil.6, N.Y. 3 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Ted Sim­
mons ripped a two-out, two-run 
triple in the eighth inning to break a 
3-3 tie and lead the Milwaukee 
Brewers to a 6-3 win over the Nev. 
York Yankees last night. 
The Brewers set the stage for Sim· mons' big hit when leadoff hitter Paul Molitor reached first on second baseman Willie Randolph's error. One out later, Molitor was forced at second by Robin Yount. But Cecil Cooper followed with a single and Simmons tripled to chase Yankee starter Dave Righetti, 14-6. George Frazier relieved and threw a wild pitch, allowing Simmons to score the Brewers' final run. 
USFL stocks six new teams 

NEW YORK (AI') -Mark Buhen. a defensive tackle with the Chicago Blitz, was sdected by the l'iltshurgh Mault"rs yesterday as the tirst player chosen in the l nited States Football League drali to stock its six ne\\ 
rean1~. 
Each of the new club~ -l'itt~­hurgh. Ilouston. Oklahoma. San An­tonio jacksonvilk and !\kmphb ­\'lr.J~ 10·1ake 2"1 players each from the 
12~t:KiSting lranchise~. 
Hu,u.,ton, picking second. took d• u·nsive end Brad Anae fom the Philadelphia Stars. 
Linemen dominated the tlrst round, with Oklahoma picking defensive end Curtis Anderson from the Michigan Panthers. San Antonio choosing olknsive tackle Tim Nor­man from the Blitz, Jacbonville taking detensive -tackle Phil Dokes from Michigan. and :\lemphb select­ing otlen~ive tackle (rreg Fairchild from the Panthers. 
In the ~t-cond round. when the new team~ dratied in reverse order of the first round. they again shied 
r-------------------------,
I ~
Welcome Baptist Students! 
I BAPTIST I
I I 
1 ~udent 1 
II Union II 
away from picking any offensive backs or quarterbacks. with linemen 
occupying the first four choices. 
Memphis opened by taking tackle Leo Biedermann from Oakland. Then. Jacksonville picked center Dave Obey from Arizona. San A 1 n­tonio chose guard Rich (;arza from Philadelphia. Oklahoma selected tight end Ron \X'heeter !rom Oak­land. Houston took defensive back \'nil Lewis from Denver. and Pitts­burgh drafted wide receiver Tom 
Donovan fr tom Philadelphia. 
Bell is ready 

After sitting out ofspring ball, junior Greg Bell is anxious to get back into bis tailback position. Ed Domansky outlines tbe running back situation on page 12. 
SACRED HEART PARISH 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED MUSICIANS 
""S~ndG)' 9:30Moss: Singers for the four-port choir; instrumentalists 
for the Chamber Ensemble. 
Sunday 10 45: Singers and instrumentalists for the Guitar Group. 
CATECHISTS 
For Junior High Sunday School 
Stop at the parish office in the­Presbyteryorcoll239-7512 
..••••·•••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Interested in Ballroom Dancing? 
The ballroom donee classes at 'Saint Mary's lost yeor were very popular. 
There will be o FREE TRIAL SESSION Wednesday September 7th, at HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER on Saint Mary's campus. 
This FPEE TRIAL LESSON
I I 
will be from 7:00pm to 
8:30 ~m and will be taught by Roy Sexton from Indianapolis. 
1 Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun 1 
I Jol·n *Monday, September 12,1983 1I 
I
1 * Time: 7pm 1 THIS OFFER IS LIMITED
* At the Bulla Shed 1 TO NOTRE DAME AND
I UsI. 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLv
.......~
L-------------------------..1.........-~----~...----------•·•·.. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 7, 1983-page 10 
Cup approaches finals 

Aussies challenge America's Liberty 

Baseball fever Sea/lie's .\jJike Ou•en nu~v fJe PrinR IJigb tbese days, but bis Marin~>rs teammatt's are solidtv in tiJt> basement oftbeAL West. See tbe round UfJ on page~­
usc 
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOLS COMMITTEE 
Become a representative of the Admissions Office to your High School over October or Christmas break. 
For applications and further informa­tion, stop by the Admissions Office, Room 113 Administration Building. 
Application deadline, September 15. 
REFRIGERATOR RENTALS 

WE ALSO RENT: 
13" Color T.V. 12" B & W T.V. MICROWAVES Refrigerator Stand 
$90• $28• $70• $18• 
School Year School Year School Year School Year 
Call 1·800·247·8700 
7 days a week 
NEWPORT, R.I. ( AP) -Austrau.t II swallowed up its six foreign chal· kngers like they were so many defenseless guppies. Now it must sail into shark-infested waters. and Warren Jones doesn't expect his men to feast so heartily. 
The Aussic 12-mcter yacht captured 48 of its 54 trial races and reached the America's Cup finals by eliminating Victory 'H~ of Great Britain Monday, 4-1, in the best-of­seven foreign 11nals. 
Starting Tuesday, Australia II will face powerful Liberty, skippered by 1980 Cup champion Dennis Con­ner, in the best-of-seven finals to determine whether a foreign boat will win the Cup for the first time since competition began in 1 H51. 
"No doubt about it." Jones. ex­etutivt· director of the Australia II syndicate, said Tuesday when asked 
continuedfrom page 12 
time role, but did land a starting as­signment last fall against Arizona while Larry Moriarty was out of ac­tion with a sprained ankle. Regarded as an able receiver, he pulled in 7 receptions for ·H yards in 1982­five of which were against Arizona. 
Like Smith, Brooks has also worked on his blocking, but feels that his definite role will only be determined by each opponent. 
"A lot of what we'll do and how much the fullback tits into the scheme of things, will depend on how the other team plays us," he said. 
6-3,228 


..·Liberty 1s a much faster boat than 
Victory '83. 'Td he very surprised if 
there are large margins in the tinals." 
After losing the first race by just 
13 seconds, John Bertrand skip­pered Australia II, with its radical winged keel, to wide victory mar­gins of four rr.inutes, 4~ seconds. 3:07, 2:20 and 3:19 over Victory '83. 
"We don't know how fast we are. All we know is that we arc much fas­ter than the other challengers," said Jones. 
"We know for a fact the Americans will be fast. Now, anybody that thinks they won't be is dreaming. There's never bee a slow American. They will be fast. So, if we are fast, then we're going to have a very close contest." 
Jones reiterated his prediction that Australia II would beat Liberty. 
+ 3. and gave as his reason his feeling 
At the tailback spot. Pinkett returns after a successful freshman season. Two of his more memorable highlights were a 76-yard touch­down run against Pittsburgh and a 93-yard kickoff return for a touch­down against Penn State. Pinkett was the recipient ofthe Hering Award as top offensive back during the 19H~ spring workouts. His 25.3-yard kick­off return average was good enough for ninth in the overall NCAA statis­tics. 
Since last season Pinkett has learned many things, but one that he feels will be a major asset to him this season is his new awareness of the game. 
"I've gained new insight as far as reading defen~es and how our line will block a certain defense,"he said. "This I feel will enhance my running. because I will have a better idea of where a play is going to develop." 
Bell, the 6-0. 210-pound junior. will join Pinkett at tailback this fall. He missed spring drills in order to ensure proper healing of the right llbula that he broke against Purdue in the second game of 1982. 
Missing the remainder of 1982 also garnered Bell an extra year of eligipility. In his two games, he carried 24 times for l 2 ~ yards and one touchdown. !lis 512 yards rus­hing in 1981 made him second best Irish rusher. He also earned second team selection on the Sophomore All-America team as named by Foot­ball News. 
Also available to contribute to the Irish rushing brigade are 5-9, 181­pound sophomore Lester Flemons, and two freshmen, 5-10, 185-pound Hiawatha Francisco and 5-11, 195­pound Byron Abraham. All three are tailbacks. 
that "we've trained harder than they 
have." 
lie agrees with as~cssments of Australia ll's supremacy among all challengers -from the 1 5 British boats that raced the yacht America ncar the Isle of Wight in 1851 to the six ,foreign boats that battled the Aussic powerhouse this year. 
But Australia Il's overwhelming success in the h>reign trials -a 48-6 record against lesser foes -goc~ out the window as the boat returns to "square on~:" t<Jr its toughest rask ofthe ~ummer, says _Iones. 
·'Thur~da) morning, six o'clock, we'll start preparing for t the 
Am~:rican~.· 
jones has known so much lailure that he probably would ~ellle t<Jr any margin of victory. 
• • . Backs 
Providing back-up at fullback arc 
5-10, I8(,-pound sophomore Ray 
Carter and 6-2, 216-pound junior 
Dave Machtolf 
With so much talent abounding, it would appear that the Irish have a lot of depth in the running hack department. Only time will tell if this is actually the case and Moore, just like everyone else is anxious to f1nd out. 
"We've had a long preparation and I'm looking forward to the game. just to sec what wt: can do," said Moore. "They're starling to get their ~pring back, and come the end ofthe week. we'll be ready for Purdue." 

LIVE! DIRECT FROM NEW YORK! The One! The Only! Broadway's Smash Hit! 
New York Shakespeare Festival's 
m Pirilf£§ ol P£DZilD(£ 
Those famous swashbuckling pirates ... damsels in distress ... young lovers ... and "the model of a modern major general"! Audiences will cheer Gilber.t and Sullivan's merry, richly musical hit! 
Starring Maria Muldaur (Midnight At The Oasis) Sunday, Sept. 18 · 7:30PM Morris Civic Auditorium Tickets $19.50 · $16.50 · $12.50 at Century Center or charge by phone at 284·9111 
'JI['~~C3L~--------------------------------------·VV--e•d•n•e•s•d•a•y•,S•e•p•t•e•m•b•e•r•7•,•1•9•8•3--•p•a•g•e•l-l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Campus · 
Y65_.UH ...W£'17 UKE 1V ORil€R 100 Of 1H05t. RONCO "5UC£R ­
5€Nil PU. Of tT C.O.D. 

WAif. 

•Lunch and Dinner -Wed. Lunch Fast Sign­5CAl.£R/CARROT f'W.f.RS ANP 
TO : MR. 51EVE: rnlU\5,1?1C£R5 :: ZOO C0¥.61NA110N FISH 
NEJ/E.R 11'1NV. 
16't'+ NORTH MAfU:-17R ..•. 
CANW.-1HAT. 

ups, North and South Dining Halls, Sponsored by
51X 1HOU5ANII COPI~5 OF 
World Hunger Coalition
''SUM WHITMAN'S PL/...-TJM£ 
HGY! 
•12:15 p.m. -Workshop, "Social Security Policy_
FAVOOffiO YOCIWN0 50N05 ." 
\ I 
and the Relative Economic Status of Elderly Men and Women," Prof. Jennifer Warlick, Library Lounge 
•7 
and 9:30p.m. -Social Concerns Film, ''Year of Living Dange.-ously," Engineering Auditorium, S1 

•7:15 
p.m. -Meeting, Notre Dame Management Club, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•8:30 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, ND/SMC Council for the Retarded, Center for Social Con­


cerns
Peanuts Charles M. Schulz 


ACROSS 1 Joshua's partner
The Daily Crossword 
6 "A-Is 
Born" 10 Excited 14 Scent 15 Hindustani 16 Nil 17 Silent 18 Hosiery 
shade 
20 Tomor Dick 22 Connecticut town 24 Stage doors 26 Eyes amor· ously 

27 Toodle-oo 31 Havens 33 "What's -?" 35 Yoke­36 Complexion 39 NASAname 40 "-for 
every star" 42 Lamb's mother 43 Claire or Balin 45 Biscay 
cape 46 Breastbone 48 Cinereous 49 Odd 52 Clan symbol 54 Vote out 
of office 
Tuesday's Solution 

r·----------, 


I 
j : "lEVER kNOW WHAT I '!QU'RE T_ALKIN6 ABOUT 

: TV Tonight · 
r·· ---------~ --~ 
~~' 

6:00p.m. .,1 ·:.. ---' -:~ 
. ,.•\ i . 
! .:-£1 ~~­

6:30p.m.
i ~-~'-~-----­
' 

7:00p.m.
john Gibbs 

7:30p.m.
(1\nd, uh ...-· 

8:00p.m.\ "'""' tf>er~ be peo.ce on 
-........._ ' Earf h, Mrnen 

8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
lOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. 
11:30p.m. 


16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune 34 Straight Talk 16 M"ajor League Baseball 22 Billy Graham 28 ABC Special 34 NOVA 28 Happy Days 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 34 Lifeline 28 9 to 5 28 Hart to Hart 34 Numero Uno 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Tennis Highlights 28 ABC News Nightline 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
56 Arranged 13 Terrorists in rows of a kind 

The Far Side
61 Isles 2·1 Scrutinize 62 Mountain 23 Nearly 
in Thessaly 25 Road sign 64 Wanderer 2"7 Breech pin 65 Let it in an old 
stand rifle 66 Take down -28 Afresh 67 Utilizing 29 Tractable 68 Protagonist 30 Cuckoo 69 Miami's 32 Harmless 
county 34 Grieg's 
70 Abounding dancing in coarse girl grass 36 HarridanE• 
37 Home of DOWN the Uintn 1 Ocelot and 38 Squirmin!~ puma 4-1 Oolong 2 "Myname 44 Finesse 
Is-" 45 Affront 3 Crazy ~~6 Tends 4 Send forth 47 Ensnarecl 5 Use the 49 Suppress. 
tub complete•ly 6 Dawn 50 Weld 7 Kind of !i1 Chemical 
prisoner compound 
8 Puttwo !i3 Less ardtwo 55 Amphibinn together 57 Proboscis 
9 Regretted sa In the 10 Blues company of 11 Lamp 59 Flavor 

"Boy, there's sure a lot of sharks around here, 
inhabitant 150 Nervous 

aren't there? ... Circling and circling . . There 
12 Words to 153 Baden B.9den 

goes another one! , . , Killers of the sea . , . yes
a waiter Is one 

siree ..." 


_______________..~'"'-"-'-----------­
Sports 
Wednesday, September 7, 1983-page 12 


Boilermakers heat up Irish opener 
s Writer 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
It's time for the 9Sth season of Notre Dame football to begin, and Gerry Faust may find no tougher place to start it than West l.afayette, Ind. Nevertheless, that's where the Irish will be this Saturday when they open the 1983 campaign with the annual "Battle for the Shil­lelagh" as they lock horns with the Purdue Boilermakers. Don't let Notre Dame's lofty preseason rankings or Purdue's 3-8 record from a year ago deceive you -this will not be an ea'i}' opener. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team took a beating straight games. See Mike Sullivan's game story 
Ross-Ade Stadium: House of Horrors ...The Irish have not
last night at the bands of a powerful Georgia below. 
. had great amounts of success in their visits to Purdue over the last
team. Inexperience showed as the Irish lost in 
twenty years. The last time the Irish emerged from West Lafayette with a vctory wao; 1977 -and only because of another miracle comeback led by Joe Montana. Ara Parseghian lost in his first three
Georgia romps over inexperienced 
visits to Ross-Ade, and Gerry Faust did not fare any better in his first trip. In that game, you may recall, Scott Campbell's fine pao;sing in the 
-
last minutes ofthe game gave Purdue a 1 S-14 win. Purdue, and their 
69,200 partisan fans will be ready for the Irish to visit Saturday, but 
don't expect a gracious host. By MIKE SULLIVAN Vanslager, "hut we didn't get much passing, and a large number oft net Sports /;'ditor time to practice the new setup. violations. Things got had enough 
We're still looking ti>r the right com­that the crowd began applauding the f:arly in la~t night's match against bination. public address announcer's witty <i~orgia, th~ N01r~ Dame volleyball "But we don't settle for any reading ofthe volleyball rules. 
Irish before packed pit 
Campbell: Is it hereditary? ...Scott Campbell, who holds the t~am mov~d out to a 7· -~ lead and excuses. The work has to he done in The loss dropped the Notre Dame 
record for most yards passing by any quarterback against Notre lookl·d lik~ it would not disappoint practice time, not in the game time." record to 0-9. but the players and 
Dame, is the latest in a long line ofgreat signal-callers from Purdue ­the more than .~00 people who had For a briefperiod, it appeared that 
coaches remain contldent that, once a school which seems to turn out quarterbacks as effectively a.'> 
packed th~ ACC Pit. the raw talent of the Notre Dame the team gets rid of some of the General Motors turns out cars (or, maybe these days, llonda ). Great Wdl. things did nm go too well players would make up for the lack 
minor problems, the players' tale tnt pa.o;sers like Len Dawson, Bob Griese, Mike Phipps (even though he atter that, and <ieorgia cam~ hack to of practice as the Irish, using some will really show. served some time with the Bears) and Mark Herrmann all spent their romp OVl'r an in~xperi~nced Irish good sets to power the offense, "No player on the team is down." collegiate years in the Black and Gold. 
squad, IS-H, I S-6, IS--1. moved out to a 7-:\ lead in the tlrst said co-captain Josie Maternowski. 
The outcome, while proving that game. However, the Georgia players "We're rebuilding now, hut, once Georgia has a good t~am, was more a began 11nding some holes and quick­we get things together, we're really r~sult of thl' raggedn~ss of a Notre ly erased the lead. going to be tough." Dam~ squad that has suffn~d a rash Winning 12 ofthe last 1:\ points of "The potential is there," Vanslager 
of injurks and has not h~~n ahlc to the game, the Bulldogs showed how said. "It just takes time to develop. Who to watch ...The Boilers have more than just Campbell, who 
g~t the needed amount of practice. important working as a team is. "The most important time of the 
is definitely the best quarterback in the Big Ten this fall, despite Ohio "We n~ed practice," stated Coad1 While the Notre Dame players were 
seaso t n is our practice time. l always State's claims about Mike Tomczak. He ha'> two excellent targets in Sandy Vanslager. "With thr~~ fresh­trying to get used to their new posi­tell my players that 'failing to 
All-America tight end CliffBenson and speedsterJeffPrice, who runs men starting, we got a little dis­tions and to each other. the Georgia prepare is preparing to fail.' We just the 100-yard da.o;h in 9.6. Mel Gray is the main threat for the running orientnl out thl'rl·. Our skills r~ally players were covering the court, need more time to prepare." 
game, and will also be a receiver on several pa.'>s plays: Campbell nl·ed a lot of rel1nement... passing, and selling well. 
should get plenty of time to find his targets, a'> the average weight of Thl· disorientation showed as the "The <ieorgia team was very effi­There will not be too much time 
the Boiler offensive line is just over 260 pounds. frbh play~r~ w~rl' constantly caught cient and accurate," said Vanslager. to prepare for the team's next op­out of position hy the talkr Bulldog "They were very consistent in all the ponent, national power Purdue, as 
play~rs. While Notre Dame spik~s different skills like blocking, setting, the Irish will travel to West Lafayette wer~ being returned or were mis­and digging for shots." on Thursday. The Boilermakers sing the court completely, <ieorgia's As the scorl· indicates, Georgia's And for the Irish...While the Boiler offense is potent, their
finished fifth in the country last year. hard and soft returns w~re 11nding conl1dence grnv over the last two defense is young and inexperienced. The Irish will try to go with a the large gaps between Irish players. games as Notre Dame continued to balanced attack, but look for veteran quarterback Blair Kielto try to
The squad's next home match will "Ton*ht we moved some of the play erratically. The Irish were be on Monday against St. Francis­exploit freshman free safety Rod Woodson and sophomore weak 
play~rs around on th~ court," said plagued by some poor serving, poor corner Ray Wallace's lack ofexperience when the Irish go to the air.
Fort Wayne. 

There is no question the Irish have plenty of talent at the skill posi­tions, and the offensive line hao; five men who average 274 poundo;_ However, whether they will move the football or not still must be proven.
Harmony runs through backfield 
By ED DOMANSKY improvement. 
Looking ahead to this season, 

Sports Writer 
"From the beginning of fall Smith sees blocking as one of his Scatteredthoughts ...With all the "pressure" on Faust this year,practice, they've steadily primary roles. 
it seems strange Purdue coach Leon Burtnett signed a five-year con­What at one time could have been progressed, but l don't believe "l think l can help the team best 
tract following a 3-8 season_ ..Watch for senior Tom Murphy ortermed a battle among the running they've reached their potential; and with my blocking," he said. "We freshman Mike Kovaleski to do a good job filling in for Mike Larkin. It backs can now be thought ofas a har­that's the thing that's so exciting," have a couple ofgreat tailbacks, and always seems linebacker coach George Kelly is never at shortage for mvnious blending of highly talented said Moore. "There's so much the role of the fullback at Notre talent .. .It seems that Campbell had to survive a bit of a challenge
individuals. ability, and there's still room for im­Dame has been mainly to block." 
from little-known Jim Everett for his job this year. In the end,Wht.·n this year's edition of the provement, yet we feel we've made Smith has also worked hard on an­however, Leon Burtnett made the only decision he could -redshirt 
Notre Dame football team takes the progress." other aspect of his game, and hopes 
Everett and let Campbell have the reigns.field on Saturday at Purdue's Ross­Leading the Irish will be fullbacks to be utilized in that respect as well. Ade Stadium, the running back corps Chris Smith and Mark Brooks along "Mark Brooks and I worked a lot will find itself equipped with four with tailbacks Allen Pinkett and over the summer on pass catching," 
top-quality ball carriers, in addi­Greg Bell. he siad, "and I feel that my receiving tion to numerous others who are Smith began his Notre Dame has gotten better." Pick ofthe week ...Every week in this space, I, in my very finite
willing and able to provide back­career as a tailback, requested a Also important to Smith is the im­wiSdom, will suggest a minor sport event that may be worth your
up support if needed. change to linebacker a year ago, but proved knowledge he feels he has while in the field hockey opener as Jan Galen Bishop's ladies visit ·
Running back coach Mal Moore, was moved back to fullback last fall gained for the game. This he hopes in his first full season on the Irish to add depth in the backfield. 
Purdue Saturday morning. Iftennis is your game, Sharon Petro's Irish
will be an aid to his playing ability. 

staff, after serving 1 7 years at In 1981 he rushed 41 times for Brooks, the 6-3, 228-pound netters will also be in West Lafayette on Saturday. But, if you are Dome-bound, Rich Hunter and the Irish soccer team open their
Alabama under the illustrious Paul 161 yards and one touchdown. In junior, will also see a lot ofaction in 
home season Friday night against St. Francis at 8 p.m. on Cartier"Bear" Bryant, is optimistic about 1982, however, his primary duties the fullback slot. Over the past two Field.
the situation. Although his talent­were as tackler on specialty teams seasons he )las had to accept a part-
laden crew has shown him many and as an extra blocker on short 
good things, he still seeks continued yardage situations. 
see BACKS, page 10 



