-~----------­
• • • Copyright Act-page 7 

VOL XVII, NO. 76 th~: indqKnLknt ~tuLknt ne\\ ~paper ~er\'ing notre Jame ami ~aint mary·~ TUESDAY,JANUARY 18, 1983 

Wallace elected a record fourth term 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) ­Gov. George C. Wallace capped his political comeback yesterday, taking the oath ofoffice for a record fourth term and promising to help the growing numbers of poor and job­less in a time of "fiscal chaos" for Alabama. 
Wallace, who stood defiant as a segregationist at his first inaugura­tion 20 years ago, returned as a man of compassion for the needy of all races in a state whose I 5 percent un­employment rate is one of the na­tion's highest. 
"A nation that forgets its poor will lose its soul," he told a crowd of several thousand, including many blacks, who gathered near the Capitol steps for the noontime ceremonies on a bright, cold day. 
"We are not here to deny the mistakes of the past," said Wallace. "We have come to renew our faith in the future." 
Two decades ago, Wallace was sworn in wearing a top hat and for­mal attire as bands played "Dixie." He set the stage for years of racial 
confrontation  by  proclaiming  
"segregation forever."  
On  :VIonday,  the  wheelchair­ 

bound Wallace, dressed in a gray suit and pale blue shirt, pledged to a far more somber audience "a govern­ment guided by a humble man's sense ofuty and mercy and justice." 
As Wallace was wheeled up the ramp to the speaker's platform, an Army band played a brief rendition of"Dixie." But Wallace, now 63 and long since rid of his segregationist stands, spoke of compassion for the destitute and the need for unity across the state. 
"During the past months as I travelled throughout this state, I have held the hands of the un­employed," he said. "I have looked into the faces of the hungry ...and I have heard the desperate pleas of parents who could not care properly for their children." 
Wallace, who succeeded Gov. Fob James, said, "With no intent to reflect critically on anyone, I must in all honesty observe that today we see a state in fiscal chaos, teetering on the brink ofinsolvency." 
The state's 1983 budget already has been cut by IO percent for education programs and I 5 percent for other agencies because of sag­ging tax revenues. 
In the 1982 campaign, Wallace received just enough black votes to narrowly win the Democratic nomination in a runoff. In the general election, he was the heavy favorite of black voters against a hard-line conservative Republican, becoming the first person ever elected governor of Alabama four times. 
Yesterday's ceremony actually marked the fifth inayguration for Wallace. In addition to his own in­augurations for four-year terms in 1963, I97I and 19'5, Wallace became governor of sorts when his first wife, the late Lurleen Wallace, was inaugurated in 1967. 
For1986 



Tax increases draw near 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Reagan administration is leaning toward tax increases in fiscal I986 -and beyond -that would boost gasoline prices by an additional I2 cents per gallon and tack a I percent surcharge on the incomes of all ear­ners, administration sources said yesterday. 
At the same time, the administra­tion is likely to seek a six-month delay this year in cost-of-living raises in pensions for Civil Service employees, veterans, and railroad workers, as well a~ in the disability pay for miners with black lung disease, the sources said. 
The six-month freeze in the automatic yearly intlation triggers would parallel a similar delay for So­cial Security recipients, a move proposed over the weekend by a na­tional commission and endorsed by President Reagan and House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D­Mass. 
The sources, who asked for anonymity, said the cost-of-living delay also might be extended to other federal programs with automatic intlation triggers, includ­ing food stamps and welfare benefits. 
Even with the additional savings, Reagan will be hard pressed to keep the projected deficit below a record S200 billion for fiscal I984, accord­ing to the sources. Reagan's budget for the fiscal year that begins next Oct. I is to be delivered to Congress onJan.3l. 
Although Reagan continues to oppose major new tax increases for I983 and I984, other than a Social Security tax speed-up approved over the weekend, he is expected to approve a "contingency" tax plan for fiscal years 1986 through 1988 as the only way to keep future deficits from swelling toward 300 billion a year. 
Administration ofticials said Reagan has not yet given final apoval to the contingency taxes, which would raise approximately S40 bil­lion in each of the three years, if needed to keep the annual deficits under S100 billion. But a presiden­tial OK is expected. 
The officials said the administra­tion has not settled firmly on the spec t ifics, but they said a combina­tion of an oil fee and a surcharge on taxable income topped Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan's list. 
A final decision is not expected until after Regan's return tonight from Paris, where he and finance mm1sters from the leading in­dustrialized democracies discussed the worsening international debt problems ofdeveloping countries. 
The administration ofticials declined to talk in detail about the tax plan. However, they noted proposals already have surtaced in Congress to impose a fee of S5 a bar­rel or more on imported and domes­tic crude oil. They said a comparable fee might be proposed as well for natural gas. 
Congressional tax experts have 




be the fourth time Wallace has taken the oath of office as Governor ofAlabama. (AP Photo) 
Alabama Governor-elect George Wallace and his wife Lisa hold the official Inaugural program for that event which took place yesterday. It will 
Mideast conflict 

Closer to peace agreement 
KHALDE, Lebanon (AP) American, Israeli and Lebanese negotiators set up a subcommittee that "made good progress" yester­day toward ending the 35-year-old 
state  of  war  between  Israel  and  
Lebanon,  official  spokesmen  an­ 
nounced.  

It appeared to be the tirst result of 
U.S. pressure to quicken the pace of negotiations aimed at removing the more than 60,000 Israeli, Syrian and Palestinian troops from Lebanon. 
Lebanese Foreign Minister Elie 
estimated that a S5 fee per barrel of oil -equal to another 12 cents per gallon of gasoline -would raise about S21 billion a year. 
The surcharge under discussion now would apply to an individual's taxable income -gross income less deductions, such as for mortgage in­terest, state and local taxes, business expenses, medical costs and a variety ofother items. 

Salem said the talks were expected to produce a "protocol accord" to regulate future relations between the neighboring nations. "but a 
peace treaty is out ofthe question. It is impossible." 
Lebanon is opposed to a treaty with Israel, fearing the anger of its Arab neighbors, which cast Egypt out of the Arab brotherhood be­cause of its separate peace es­tablished with Israel three years ago. 
In a statement broadcast over 
Lebanon's  state  radio,  Salem  said  
President  Reagan's  special  envoy  
Philip  C.  Habib  was  proposing  

"timetables and solutions that might bring about unusual leaps" to con­clude the withdrawal talks in less than two months. He did not elaborate. 
Salem called for Arab ~upport for Lebanon and said "we shall do no­thing with Israel without prior coor­dination with the Arab states. We will conclude no secret deals with Israel behind the back of the Arab nations." 
Lebanon's national news agency said that when the closed session in Khalde began, chief Lebanese negotiator Antoine Fattal proposed a timetable for troop withdrawal, but Israel's chiefdelegate David Kimche objected and said the talks should concentrate on the first agenda item. 
"Discussion then developed into various other issues, prompting (U.S.) Ambassador Morris Draper to intervene to keep the debate under control, proposing the subcommit­tee to handle the question ofending the state ofwar," the agency said. 
There was no ofticial word on the measures under discussion to ter­minate the state of war that has existed technically since the first Arab-Israeli war in 1948. 
Official spokesmen for the American, Israeli and Lebanese delegations read a communique in English, Hebrew and Arabic at the end of yesterday's plenary session to announce the formation of the three-nation subcommittee. 
American spokesman Christopher Ross said the subcommittee made good progress" and its discussions were "very serious and very in­tensive." He declined to give details. 

Senate petitions to save hockey 
ByTOMMOWLE 
StaffReporter 

A petition to save the hockey team as a major 
sport was announced at this semester's first 
meetng of the Student Senate last night. 

The petition, which was initiated by Pangborn 
Hall President John Gallagher, is intended to 
demonstrate ro Executive Vice-President Fr. Ed­
mund P.Joyce the students' support for the hockey 
program. Athletic Director Gene Corrigan an­
nounced Saturday that the Notre Dame hockey 
program would be reduced or eliminated if two 
million dollars are not raised in two weeks. 
Cavanaugh Hall President Jim Leous said "a show ofsupport from the students" would be more effective because this year's largest crowd has been onlv about 2100 people. The senate agreed that the drop in interest in hockey is tied to the change in conferences several years ago: "no one wants to see us play Lake Superior State." 
Student Body President Lloyd Burke described the Lndergraduate Nights at the Senior Bar as a "disaster." This is true, Leous observed, "because it's on Sunday night and that's when everyone is studying." The Senate decided not to spend any additional money on promoting Undergraduate Night because they felt it would not improve the situation. The only nights when it would be profitable would be Thursday, Friday, or Saturday; however, those are the nights when the bar presently makes the most money. 
Happy hours are once again allowed in the dorms, according to a letter to the rectors from Vice-President for Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear. Also, more than one party may be held in a hall's party room, provided that the students, ac­ting through the hall's rector, get the approval of Student Affairs. 
This year's visit ofToronto students as part ofthe exchange program is planned for February 11-I 5. Notre Dame students' visit to the University of Toronto may be moved up to February 25-March 1 from the following weekend to avoid mid-
see DISASTER, page 5 



News Brie/§ 
B~ The (Jhsen•er aml l'hc .·lssociatetl Press 

Country vocalist Willie Nelson won favorite 
pop ami country album award~ for his LPA/ways On My Mi/1(/ at the American J\lusic Awards last night. Nelson gave brief thanks in a satellite transmission from San Diego. :-./elson had won three American Music awards in year~ past. Lionel Richie brought his l 0­year total to tivc by winning tavorite male soul vocalist and favorite pop single for "Truly." John Cougar won favorite male pop vocali~t honors. Olivia Newton-John won her ninth American .\lusic award by being named favorite female pop vocalist t(Jr the fourth time. Barbara :VIandrell was named favorite female country vocalist for the third straight year. But sh.: ~aid the honor was exciting as ever. Kool & the Gang w:!~ named favorite soul group for the second con­secutive year. and Aretha Franklin. who co-ho~ted the two-hour ABC telecast with \lac Davis and \lelissa '\lanchester, got her third American .\lusic award hy winning favorite soul album forjump In ft. Diana Ross. who scored a big hit with ":\luscle," was named favorite femalt: soul vocalbt t()f tht· second time. -AP 
u.s. intelligenCe SOUrCeS reported yeMerda~ the,· have contirmed the arrival of a long-range Soviet SA:\I·'i anti· aircraft missile in S) ria and said there are other indications tht: Soviets may he increasing their pre!->ence in that Arab country. These 
source~. who asked to remain anonymous. expressed concern that the presence: of such anti-aircraft weapons, with enough range: to reach into Israeli airspace and cover much of Lebanon, could crt:ate a new and dangerous crisis iftht: lsraelb move to dt:stroy them. This concern was highligtnl by reports suggesting that Soviet troops may operate the SA.\1·5 mbsiles. which are said by experts to have a range of between I50 and 190 miles. About 10 days ago, American intel­ligence ~ources ~aid they had detected evidence that the Soviets were preparing SAM·') launching sit~·' in two location~. Duma)T 
winch 1s northeast of Damascus. and llotns. north of Lebanon. -.4P Union workers are more satisfied with their pay than 
non-union employees. hut they're not as happy with their super· visors. a Purdue University study shows. ''Supervisors of union workers were seen as less supportive and less effective in helping work-group pnt(Jrmance" than supervisors in non-union tlrms. says Chris). Berger of Purdue's Krannert (;raduate School of .\1anage· ment. "This could be because ol the many work rules and more narrowly applied job descriptions often found in unionized firms. Also. supervisors arc usually the most immediate representative of management during an initial talling out and-or during a subsequent grievance." he added. Berger. who made the study with Craig A. Olson of the State l ;niversity of :'\ew York at Buffalo and John \l'. Boudreau of Cornell l 'niversity, says the research covered 1,1 5') adults nationwide who worked fuB time. 53 percent of them 
belonged to union,.. -AP 
Giovanni Vigliotto was "very pushy'' when Sharon 
Clark tlrst met him. hut in two weeks he was running her Indiana tie a 
market and in about three months ~hey were married, she told a jury 
hearing bigamy and fraud charges against him. Ms. Clark, the first 
witness in this second week of tctimony. testitled that she soon 
found "he was fabulous with people." But when he vanished not long 
after their June 13, 1981, marriage, and 800 pages of notes 
representing a book she was writing on the antique industry also 
vanished. she testified. Vigliotto. 5:3. whose attorney says has 
married more than I00 women in 18 states and nine foreign 
countries, is charged with bigamy and fraud in connection with his 
Nov. 16, 1981, marriage to Patricia Gardiner, 42, of Mesa. She also 
met him at a flea market she operated. He was arrested in December 
1981 in a Florida shopping center, where Ms. Clark spotted him after 
she had tracked him for more than 10,000 miles. -.4P 
The Supreme Courtshunted aside arguments by 24 
U.S. senators yesterday and refused to let teacher·superviscd student groups pray in Lubbock, Texas public schools. The justices, without comment, let stand a ruling that a prayer·accomodation policy devised for Lubbock schools crosses the constitutionally required separation ofchurch and state. At issue was whether Lubbock school officials could allow students to "gather at school with supervision either before or after regular school hours on the same basis as other groups ...for any ...religious ... purposes so long as attendance at such meetings is voluntary." A federal appeals court said, "no" ear­lier this year, and the Supreme Court refused to disturb that ruling, despite the senators' urgings. They had submitted an extraordinary "friend·of-the court" brief to the justices. -AP 
Engineers and federal investigators 
combed the rubble yesterday after a rural bridge collapsed ncar the Ohio·lndiana border, killing five people as their autos plunged one by one into the gap. Another four people, including a 6·week·old baby, were injured in the four·car pileup. The accident occurred about 9 p.m. Sunday on Paulding County Road 180 near Antwerp and about 20 miles northeast of Fort Wayne, Ind. Paulding County Engineer Dan Stouffer said it will be "several days ...maybe a week or longer" before experts know why the pipe·corrugatcd steel arch span collapsed into a dry creek bed called "the Zuber Ditch." Minutes after the span broke into pieces and fell about 20 feet, the four vehicles dropped one by one into the crevice, authorities said. The cars landed on top of each other. Three vehicles were eastbound on the road headed from Antwerp to a connecting high· way, Ohio 127, and one car was westbound toward Antwerp. -AP 
Variable cloudiness with snow flurries today. High~ in the mid to upper teens. Clearing and cold tonight night. Low around 10. Mostly sunny and cold tomorrow High around 20. -AP 
Tuesday,)anuary 18, 1983-page 2 

Toodle-oo Ronitie 
I votnl lor Ronald Reagan. These da~ ~ not many people: are willing to admit that. So kw, in tact, that it's hard to see how he was elected. But he won by a fair margin. Actually he onlv had the support ola little more than 25 percent ofour nation·~ voter~. Almost half ofthe citizens of this great democracy prdcrred the comfort of resting their rears as opposed to casting their ballot. 
My original enthusia~m tiJr Ronnie has wained con­siderably. During my days a~ a teenage political junkie in CalitiJrnia. I was impressed with Ronnie's manage­mt·nt of the nation's most populatt·d state. After the Reign of Carter, l. like many others. felt the same malaise h1r Jimmy that he claimed existed in the countn·. When he left otllce. it was with the cold clam· 111)' handshake ofa mortician. 
And then in rode Reagan. He promised to polish up the national trim. clean rhe economic carburetor, and fuel the country's engine with high octane gas. Unhx· tunatcly. two years latn, Ron has left us driving an Ed· sci. 
During the ~ummcr of 


station break. :'~Jow that he is at midterm, though. Ron seems to waiting for the s<:ript to the sequel. 
Worst· yet ti>r Reagan. his most clfecth'C campaign comment of I':180 is going to haunt him. "Are you any better off now than you were ti>ur years ago?" For so many of his supporters the answer is no. 
.\luch of the progress made under previous ad­ministrations is being pha~ed out. And t(Jr so little reason. Secretary of the Interior James Watt i~ a prime example. Reagan i~ known t(Jr his loyalty to others; in this case it is protoundly misplaced. Watt's abrasive comments and gleeful orders condemning millions of acres of land to bulldozers arc not helped by his nco· Nazi appearance. Watt's apparent sister in crime is Anne Gorsuch of the Enviromental Protection Agency. She has changed the protection to desecration. 
Surveys have shown that Americans want clean water, sniffable air, and pristine national parks pop· 
ulated by prancing Bamhis. The 
Today Father Hesburgh is in Vienna, Austria. 
The Observer 

/Jesignl:.'dilor ......... Tom "help from my 
friends" small 

Design A .....·sistanl.Tom"fech like tht> first tinu.··· Sapp 
Layout Stajf... ............................. ;\;;mcy 
'f)'jJesetlers .....Jim and new-department 
Rahhu 

Sews Editor._ ........... ........ 1\.;Hhkc.·n Duyk 
Copy Editor.. ............................. Dan \lay R & 7 Layoul .......................... Ed KonraUy Editoritlls Lc~rout .. Lihhy ''debut album" Brown 
Sports Co{J)' Etlitor .... ........ \1ik~ Sullivan 
.\"/)/Jay Editor... .. ..............Jane Panlil 
XUC /Jt~l' I::dilor ... ...... Tari Brown 
1)·pist .\like O'Connor, .\1aq Beth Poncr 
Ad /Jesi!{n ... Hob & co. 
Photugrapber .......................... Tom \\'hite. 
Guest Appearance.-. .... Ryan "not the t1rst 
time" \'er Hc.·rkmoe!t, as!torted hdplt:s!-1 indi\'iduals, some comfort 
The Observer tUSPS :>98 o!20t ~~ pc.bl1she1J Monday through Fr,day and on home tuolball Satvrday5 except durtng exam and v.-lcat" .n pert ads The Observer 15 publiShed by lhe sludenls of Notre Da·n~ and Satnt Marys Cvl· lege Subscrtpllons may De purchased for S25 per year 1S 15 per se•nesten by wrtt1ng The Observer P 0 Bux Q Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer ~~ a ·np·nber ,,t The Associated Press A.. repr-.Jdu,:fl(>n rtghls are reserved 
Second •tass pustage pdld at Nutre Dame lnd1ana 46556 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor 
Inside Tuesday 

lkagan's stance arc: lJUestionablc. and the public rela­tions benefits minimal. :\!any other times, Reagan has made moves that sen'Cd only to tarnish his image. Remember the big catsup as a vegetable controversy' Who can love a man who robs children of their peas' 
Reagan promised to rebuild our dekn~e. A noble task, especially since we've managed to chill rclatitJib with the commie~. However there is one cntical problem: we can't affc>rd to. Acenterpiece ofour "ne\\ and improved" dckn-.,c i!> the :\IX missk. It repre!->ents a 
quantum leap fonvard in the 

death and destruction 198 I. after Reagan roared derby. Yet if we need it so through Congress with a bad, how come no one can string of victories. dough­tigure out what to do with it? faced Tip O'Neill tried to It's been in planes, trains, rationalize hi~ party's Water· subs, racetracks, den~epack~ loo by saying he wa:-. giving and silo~. Also. Reagan. tirst Ron enough rope to hang \Vith a hi~ blow when it lumsdt. lie lhu. come~ to ''aste, tails to 
Reagan's tirst year was not realize that the :\IX is un· unlike one of his old movies. eces~ary. If we must ha\·e Instead of :vtr. Smith, it was missiles. they could be a vcr· t:ncle Ron going to Wash· sion of the Trident II being ington. He carried out his developed for the :'\a,·y. This campaign promises with logical and economical glee, and there was even a move has been given a cold dramatic assassination at· shoulder by Pentagon Air tempt to hold the viewers' Force Oftlcials who hate attention right before the sharing and want their own 
cost benetlts Of 

e
• 
missile. 
At the center of Reagan·~ failures is the economy. As in playing ,\1onopoly, unless you have a few 'ioo·~ tucked away in your lapel, when you hit Boardwalk a fe\\: times,~ ou'rc hbtory. Sadly. Ron's lapels are not big enough for our two hundred billion dollar national debt. We would need thousands ofthousand dollar hilb stretching probably past Pluto to pay it. Yet Ronnie promised to build defense and cut taxc~. And so he goes, oblivious to the need to alter his policies to re· ~tore some form of tiscal sanity. 
Hcagan remains a genial, grandfatherly man. llowcvcr. he has not shown the visionary leadership I had hoped for. Instead he marches on. not looking back to see if anyone is following. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the t•iews of their author and do not necessari!)· represent the l'iews of The Observer or its editorit~l hoard 

Marriage Preparation is a diocesan requirement 
across the country 



Weekends still available: February 18-19 April 8-9 

C<!O)PUS 
• 
mmtstry 
r. 
sign up at Campus Ministry Badin Offices 
239 -5242 
a 
••• a 
• 
,.• 

Tuesday,January 18, 1983-page 3 
The Observer Denied job


Walesa seeks employment 
settle the problem of !11} employ­der. He spent 1 I months ofthat time

WARSAW. Poland (AP) -Lech ment,'' Walesa told Western repor­in custody ofthe m_artial-law govern­
Walesa said yesterday he will sue to get hack his electrician's joh at the 
ters yesterday at the former ment. The government has an·used
Solidarity headquarters. a monument Walesa of tax evasion and financial 

Lenin Shipyard. where he helped 
found the now-outlawed Solidarity Then he drove to outside the shipyard gates and knelt mismanagement ofthe union, which
lahor union. 
briefly in prayc:r. was suspended under th<: Dec. I:'.

But the government oftkial in The monument's towering steel 1981, martial-law deere<: an~l for­charge of liquidating Solidarity crosses are a nwmorial to scores of mallv banned last Oct. H. The detailsaccused Walesa of "intlated ambi­workers killed thne in a clash with ofth~ charges have not bet:n releasd. 
tion" and indicated Wale~a would remain UIH.:mploved until he came 
authorities in I ')-o. "l will alwa~~ he faithful to those Bc1~e~law :'\:apieraj. the govern­

in for que~tioning. \\ ale~a. married and with seven 
crosses." \\ alc~a said. "l was and l ment administrator in charge ofwin­ren1ain a uniolll:'-11 ding up Solidarity's aft-airs. told The

children. i~ thought to lw living otf Ship~ard authoritie~ wid Waks;t Associated Pr<:ss y<:stcrlla\ that
saving~ and gitb from ~upporter~. He Friday they w• •uld not emplo\ him \'i'alesa must answer to him tirst if he
tried to regain his job a~ ;t shipyard elec!rician la~t Frida~ hut wa-. unle~~ he could pro\·ide documt·nts wants to g<:t a job. turned .twa\ at the gate~. ~bowing he '' ·'" not employed else­The 59-) car-old labor leader "If I am not rein~tatnl in the \\ here during the past two years and ignored two summons issul·d by ~hip\ ard. l will !!,O to the courts to 
that Solidarit\ ·, linant:es were in or-:\iapieraj last week. 
.. Refusal to come to this oftkt: is a qucstion of inflated am bit ion, .. ~apieraj said in a telephone inter­

Retirement age may 
view. He said Walesa had been employed by the union, not the 
shipyard, since Solidarity's creation in August 1980, and "an employee 

WASIII:'>IGTON (AP) A White House spokesman Larry should settle his affairs with his majority of the Social Security Speakes said Reagan told O'Neill. employer betore taking on new Reform Commission will recom­Baker and Rostenkowski in a joint employment." mend the retirement age gradually call: "some may call this the lion and Walesa maintains the Polish law 
be pushed up to 66 or later tor the the lamb lying down together. To "un~:quivocally" provides tor Polish "baby boom" generation born after avoid controversy, let's all say us trade unionists to take Leaves of ab­World War II. panel sources said yes­lions are standing together." sence from their regular jobs, and terday. Speakes said Reagan thanked the return freely when their union 
That was not part of the S169 bil­lawmakers for their cooperation and duties are over. lion deal that President Reagan and told them: "our joining together on congressional leaders approved this matter will provide a real boost Saturday after the pact was endorsed to the American people in these 

go to 66 or beyond 
Wrongdoings

by a 12-5 vote of the National Com­tough times." 
mission on Social Security Reform. In the past, the White House had But Alan Greenspan, the chair­emphasized that Reagan was not man. and other Republicans said intervening in the panel's delibera­


Congressman may be victim 
then that they would propose a high­tions. On Friday, the president him­er retirement age to wipe out the self emphasized that it was not a NEWARK, N.J. (AP) -Justice Critics ofAbscam maintain that in­rette for a long period of time. We remaining one-third of the system's presidential commission but one Department officials said they made vestigators improperly .targeted will divert the resources of the FBI long-term deficit that would remain that he, O'Neill and Baker jointly ap­former South Carolina congressman defendants without knowing if they and the informant in this case even after generating S169 billion in pointed. John Jenrette an Abscam target "as a were corrupt. The Justice Depart­(Weinberg) in order to get new taxes and reduced spending by But White House Chief of Staft' favor" to FBI agents in his home state ment says investigators were led to CongressmanJenrette." 1990. James Baker and other top Reagan who were unable to indict him on the politicians by crooked associates Several days before Jenrette was Under a draft of the plan that a aides did take part in lengthy other charges, prosecutors claim in who served as unwitting mid­secretly videotaped at a Washing­majority of the commission -pos­meetings with commission leaders newly released documents. dlemen. ton, D.C., townhouse on Dec. 4, sibly possiblr 9 or l 0 members -over the past week at which the deal And when Abscam agents met The documents disclose new 1979, Abscam overseer Gerald will insert in the final report to be was hammered out. with Jenrette in a Washington, D.C., details of an internal Justice Depart­McDowell. now chief of the Justice issued Thursday. anyone born in The compromise would bail out townhouse Dec. 4, 1979, they were ment fight over tactics employed Department's Public Integrity sec­19-!9 or later would have to wait un­Social Security from its crisis by "able to accomplish more in a half during the undercover sting opera­tion, told Robert Stewart, head ofthe til age 66 instead of 6S to draw full delaying July's cost-of-Jiving benefit hour's time than the FBI in South tion that led to the convictions of Organized Crime Strike Force in retirement checks from Social hike until January, increasing the Carolina was able to during the seven congressmen, including Jen­New Jersey, "that the Abscam inves­Security, according to the sources, payroll tax in 1984, 1988 and 1989, course of their two-year investiga­rette and then-Sen. Harrison A. Wil­tigation was being directed to South who asked not to be indentified. taxing halfofbenet1ts for middle and tion ofJenrette," an agent from Jen­liams Jr., 0-N.J. Carolina as a favor to the South Meanwhile, Reagan made con­upper-income retirees, bringing rette's home state is quoted as All the convictions are being Carolina FBI," according to Plaza. gratulatory phone calls yesterd.ay to new federal workers and all non­saying. appealed. Weir told Justice Department su­House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, profit groups into the system in The targeting ofJenrette and ear­Two assistant U.S. attorneys in periors that when he first discussed Senate Majority Leader Howard 198--l, and other steps. lier investigations into his alleged in­New Jersey, Robert Weir and Ed­the legal justifications "for the entry Baker, Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D­Robert Ball, former Social volvement with drug smuggling and ward Plaza, described their objec­of John Jenrette into the Abscam Ill., the chairman of the Ways and Security commissioner and a leader land fraud was discussed in docu­tions to tactics employed in the case,'' he was told "there was Means Committee, and to Sen. of the Democratic forces on the ments obtained by The Associated Abscam sting probes ofJenrette and reasonable suspicion to believe that Robert Dole, R-Kan., the Finance panel, said yesterday, "There's no­Press in a 20-month federal court others in January 1980 sessions with Jenrette had been recently involved Committee chairman and a leader of thing in this solution that doesn't suit under the Freedom of Informa­superiors in Washington. in crime,'' according to the docu­the reform panel. hurt somebody." tion Act. Transcripts ofthose sessions were ments released to the AP. included in the documents secured There would be no legal concern, by the AP. Plaza told superiors, "if in fact
Soldiers sent 
Weir told his superiors, "I got the Congressman Jenrette was involved explanation that it was involving a in some kind of drug trafficking or congressman and that they were they had some basis to believe that


Guerrillas make impressive stand 
doing this as a favor to the South he was involved ... on the other 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) The army ofticer said the Atonal started a drive toward the Morazan Carolina ( FBI) bureau, who had hand, ifin fact he was not involved in -The government rushed -i,200 and Ramon Bdloso infantry bat­capital Jan. 8 as part of a new been trying to getJenrette on some­any kind of drug trafficking, then soldiers into Morazan province yes­talions -trained last year in the nationwide push for power in the thing else prior to this ...and they representations made to us were in­terday to try to roll back major gains United .States -were leading the three-year-old civil war. They .con­weren't able to get him." accurate." by leftist guerrillas in the moun­counterattack, which included units trol 460 square miles of territory Plaza contended he was told by "It's just totally I 00 percent tainous area of northeastern El Sal­from at least four other big garrisons. and 13 towns in the province. other Abscam prosecutors: "The FBI vador. The guerrillas reportedly have .in South Carolina has been afterJen-
see ABSCAM, page 4 An oft1cer in San Miguel, who Journalists were barred from driven the army out of three key gar­asked anonymity for security entering the zone ofoperations, but risons within I 0 miles of the provin­
,...,...~.......~·~·~-.......~~-~.................................._...,..............................,..................4 
. ~ 
reasons, called it a "total operation" military reports in San Miguel said cial capital. In an attack Sunday, the aimed at rooting out rebels from a some of the units had reached the rebels claimed they scattered a 500­large chunk of territory and at least "combat area." man garrison out of Manguera, five 
ISINGERS, GUITARISTS,! 
13 towns they control. The reports said government sol­five miles north. 
The guerrillas were last reported diers had taken up positions in advancing on San Francisco Gotera, Sociedad, seven miles east of San ~ AND OTHER ~ the provincial capital, I02 miles Francisco Gotera. and Sesori, a few northeast ofSan Salvador. miles to the west of the provincial 
~ INSTRUMENTALISTS ~ 
Led by l'.S.-trained commandos, capital, but mentioned no fighting. Course sign-up 
. i 
the troops streamed out of staging The officer said Honduran troops 
~ i
areas in San Miguel all day in trucks, also had massed on the other side of Associated Press reporter Annie the border to prevent guerrillas ~ (, SACRED HEART PARISH .) ~ Cabrera said from the city 83 miles from slipping into Honduras. In pre­Registration for Free University, ~ e) NEEDS YOU! (9 ~ from the capital. vious heavy fighting last year, the sponsored by the Notre Dame S<a­
~ ~ 
Ms. Cabrera said she saw at least Salvadoran military said Honduran dent Union, will be in the Lafortune r
~ 
7S trucks head north in convoys troops helped Salvadoran soldiers Ballroom on Tue. Jan. 18 and Wed. ~ Please call the Parish Office ! toward San Franc.:isco Gotera, 18 fight the guerrillas in the area at least Jan. 19 from 6 to 9 p.m. All are 
~ (239-7511) or Mollie Bernard ~ 
miles away. A Defense Ministry com­twice. welcome to sign up for courses ran­munique said 4,200 troops were The rrovince has long been a ging from auto mechanics to dance ~ (255-7139)! i taking part in the operation. guerrilla stronghold. Rebels there to mixology. 
\ i
L...................--.~..,.. ........................,._.........~~........~·~~-._.......-. ............,_~.,! 

The Observer Tuesday,January 18, 1983-page 4 
London and Rome 

Study-tour program planned 
ByJEFF MCGOWAN thb type of student travel for 15 around." :\'eu·s Staff year~ whik Dr Spanu, an alumna of Tht· Rome program, conducted St. :\lary's, has lived in Italy for I­from june I~ wjuly 12. will Yenture 
Study-tour programs, accentuat­years. into France. Germany. Switzerland ing learning through activity, of­The London program, in its tenth and Italy, and includes a two-week fered in London and Rome will be year, begin~ :\lay I-and ends on stay in Rome and such ~tops as the sponsored by Saint Mary's again this June 16. The tour includes travel in Louvre. the Eifl'el Tower, St. \lark's summer. Ireland, Scotland, England and Square, the Vatican, the Forum. and 
The programs, open to aM' Notre Ft ance. The tour will make stops in the Coliseum. There will also be Dame and Saint Mary's students, as Dublin, Liverpool, Edinburg, visits to Versailles, Strasbourg, well as interested alumnae and Windsor, Oxford, Dover, Heidelberg, Wurzburg, Rothenburg, 
others, offer students an oppur­Stonehenge, Paris and Versailles. Lucerne, Venice, Florence and Tus­tunity to travel in Europe while During the London study-tour, six cany. taking courses aimed at broadening courses will be offered: British Arts, Three courses will be offered: In­insights on current political, social, Travel Photo Workshop, Survey of troductory Italian, Lectures and and econqmic issues. International Business and Tours, and Philosophical Thought 
Program coordinators are Dr. An­Economics, The Musical Ex­in Medieval and Renaissance Life. thony Black, associate professor of perience, aild Study Tour: Great Again, each course will be taught by history at Saint Mary's and Dr. Portia Britain and Ireland. Each course a Saint Mary's faculty member. Prebys Spanu, director of the St. will be taught by a Saint Mary's "It was really an experience." Mary's College program in Rome. faculty member. Credit is received commented Nancy Ball, a senoir Dr. Black has been involved with for the courses. who attended both programs last 
"Basically the schoolwork is very summer."Through all the events and minimal. The main emphasis we're pe:ople I encountered, I think I stressing is education through ex­learned more in those two months perience," Dr. Black said."We've set than I have in all my life." up a program in which we allow stu­Students interested in details of

Scandal surfaces in state house 
dents a lot of freedom; tor the most the program should contact Dr. part every evening and weekend is Black at 284-4460 or attend an or­INDIANAPOUS, Ind. (AP) -A Last week, the witness, Wendell officials they would have to "pay free for the students to either go to ganizational meeting on Jan. 27 in 
government witness testified yester­Ealy, also described a Statehouse .someone to be sure" a bill in the the pubs, attend plays, or just roam room 232 Moreau Hall, St. Mary's. 
day in the trial of Thomas McComb meeting in which a top aide to for­Legislamre that the assoCiation that the former lobbyist mentioned mer House Speaker Kerit Burrous, opposed was assigned to a House raising cash for "Sen. McDaniel" to allegedly demanded a S5,000 payoff committee favorable to the group's 


Landinggearfailure 
sponsor a bill favored by the Con­to block passage ofa bill. position. 

struction Managers Association of Another government witness said Indiana. last week that McComb told CMAI 
····························································································································" 
Are you interested in tutoring a South Bend child? If so, join 

1a B ffi. IB ED al 
THE NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM 
Transportation is provided and special 
events are planned. 
Sign up on Mon.lk Tues., Jan 17/k 18 in both dining halls and Tues., Jan 18 at the Student Service Festival at the Center for Social Concerns. 
.,.............................................................................................................................. 
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION FOR ACADEMIC RESEARCH LIBRARIANS 
A Fellowship Program Offered by The University of Michigan School of Library Science with the support of the Council on Library Resources 
The University of Michigan School of Library Science is accepting applications for a master's-level program designed to prepare students ultimately to be administrators in large university libraries. The special curriculum incorporates course work in library and information science with study in business administration and higher education. It requires twenty months to complete and leads to the A.M.L.S. degree. The final four months of the program are devoted to an internship in a major university library. 
Five students will be admitted to the proQram in September 1983. Successful I applicants will receive fellowships covering all tuition and fees and providing stipends of $7,200. Consideration of applications received after April1, 1983, cannot be guaranteed. 
For additional information and application forms, write to: Russell E. 
Bidlack, Dean; 580 Union Drive; Ann Arbor. MI. 

The witness, former CMAI presi­dent Michael Carr, said, "In addition 
nearly cause~~ crash
to paying someone, we would also be obligated to pay $2,000 to LOS ANGELES (AP) -A main lagner noted.
"Slick." 

wheel assembly on an American "He (the pilot) was taxiing ourFormer Sen. Marlin McDaniel has Airlines 747 passenger jet collapsed normally and his left main gear col­reportedly said McComb called him yesterday as the plane was taxiing lapsed," said Gary Shimon, area su­"Guy" or "Slick," but denied doing toward a runway, forcing evacuation pervisor at the airport controlMcComb any favors or that of all 355 passengers, authorities tower. "There were no injuries.
McComb paid any money to him. 

said. No injuries were reported. They did a normal deplaning."
Before Ealy's testimony yesterday The incident occurred at 8:50 The passengers were transfered toin the courtroom of U.S. District a.m. at Lo .s Angeles International Air­Flight 40 for JFK, Gallagher said.
Judge William Steckler, no inkling port, halting Flight 2 bound for New The cause ofthe incident was un­had been given in the trial to Slick's York's John F. Kennedy Internation­der investigation, he said.
identity. 

al Airport, said American Airlines Tom Cole, a spokesman forA 12-count indictment accuses spokesman Tom Gallagher. Boeing, the company that makes theMcComb of obstruction of justice Passengers were taken off by airplane, said he thinks this is theand lying to a grand jury investigat­portable, stairway-like boarding first time a 747 landing gear has col­ing legislative payoffs. 
ramps, he said. The plane had not Iasped since the first of 566 jumboMcComb, who has pleaded in­reached the main runway so the run­jets was delivered in December nocent, is expected to testify during way did not have to be closed, Gal-1'969.
the trial that could continue three more weeks. 
Ealy's testimony alleging that a top Burrous aide demanded a payoff to block passage of a bill focuses on events sui-rounding the scuttling ofa • • . Abscam Senate bill in the House in the 1979 legislative session. 
continuedfrom page 3
Ealy and Carr have testified that 
cases, Jenrette was charged with McComb, acting as a 55,000 a year false," said John Kotelly, former as­
agreeing to introduce an immigra­executive director of CMAI, ar­sistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted 
tion bill on behalf of a non-existent ranged a meeting with two CMAI of­the Jenrette case, when asked about 
Arab sheik. ficials and H. Kent Howard, then top the Plaza-Weir assertions. "No one was pulled off (other
aide to Burrous. Kotelly said the reason for pursu­
CMAI opposed the Senate bill, ingJenrette was statements made by Abscam cases). No one went ro South Carolina. This was not one
which would have restricted ar­his co-defendant, John Stowe, that chitects and engineers from acting that the congressman was "willing field office doing a favor for anoth­
as construction managers on to do business." er," said Kotelly, in private
now practice.

projects they designed. As in many of the other Abscam 
He did add, however, that such a situation, if it did exist, could be viewed as a due process concern. "But that just wasn't the case here."

Woodward, Bernstein, 
The documents attribute the

Cronkite, Anderson, 
quote about the Abscam team's sud­den success to David Burch, an FBI

Dear Abby. 
agent who was part of the Jenrette land fraud investigation in South Carolina before transferring to the

************* 
FBI's Washington field office. Kotel­ly said Burch worked on Abscam in Washington.

These esteemed journalists 
Jenrette, convicted in October,

all got their starts in news­
1980 of conspiracy and bribery in connection with a S50,000 Abscam

papers and so can you! Earn 
payoff, has never been charged in

respect and experience as an 
the land fraud or drug smuggling 
probes. Jenrette, a Democrat, lost a re-election bid in November 1980. 

Observer reporter. 
Interested? Come to a 
He has long maintained he was 

meeting this Thursday at 
targeted in Abscam because inves­tigators in South Carolina were

6 pm in the Saint Mary's 
unable to indict him on other allega­

Observer office (basement 
! 
tions there. Jenrette ha~ a ci\'il suit pending ' against the Justice Department on 

of Regina South). 
' 
hi~ due proces~ clatm'
1 
·-Z l 

----------------··--·--------·----------· The Observer Tuesday,January 18, 1983-page 5 
Farlev banner stolen 
.. 

By TOM PACE 
\eu·sStaj] 
The traditional Pop Farle~ hanner was stolen at the start ofa week-long cdehration of the hall's namesake's birthdav. 
The hanner. which traditionall\· hangs over the front door of Farley Juring the week, was reportedly removed sometime early ~aturday morning. The cost of the sign was es­timated at s I 7"i. There will he some action taken hy the Hall Presidents' Council to locate the sign. 
"Everyone in Farley was very up­set that the Pop Farley banner was stolen." said Kathy :'1/eilon. president of Far lev Hall. 
"We have vowed not to let the 
~oirit nf tht> occasion he dampened. 
however. hn:ause manv hour' of planning and preparation have gone into making the week enjoyahle." 
The week's festvities include an opening :\lass which took plact.~Sun· Jav night. the Annual Scavenger Hunt, and movie night. Wednesda~ night the residents will take over the :'1/azz to perform various acts. 
Thursday the women will gather informally. The hall dinner is scheduled for Friday. 
The week will be highlighted on Saturday by the hall-wide Screw-Your-Roommate. 
All this is in commemoration of Father John Farley. a :\"otre Dame graduate, who was rector of Sarin Hall during the early part of the cen­tury. He died in 19.39 and Farley Hall was named after him in 19-17. 
Counterfeit cops con motorists in El Paso 

EL PASO, Texas ( AP)-Police are trying to catch some counterfeit cops, possibly tormer patrolmen, who have conned at least five motorists into paying traffic fines on the spot. 
Authorities also say that puhlicity about the incidents, which began ahout three weeks ago. has prompted many calls from residents reporting that legitimate El Paso of­ficers look suspicious and should be checked out. 
One patrolman said he has pulled up several times alongside motorists who have asked him "if I'm real or not." 
In one of two incidents over the weekend, an alert driver noticed that the uniformed policeman who pulled him over wasn't wearing a badge. The driver demanded iden­titkation. and the imitation officer jumped back onto his motorcycle and sped off, Sgt Rohert Wiles said yesterday. 
Hut the second incident netted a "patrolman" driving a sedan a quickie S7 "fine" when he stopped Alicia Garcia Perez tor an alleged speeding violation. 
The woman, on a milk-buying er­rand Saturday, was charged S I 0, but told tht' man she only had Si. He took the cash and sped away, said Lt. Eddie Agan. 
"That's at least five times motorists here have been ripped off," Agan said. "These guys are dressing up just like we do." 
In another case involving a suspi­cious citizen, two officers were trying to reason with a man urinat­ing in a public park next to a police substation when ;•nother man -ap­parently intoxicated -wandered over and demanded to see tht'ir identification. 
The oftkers produced it, but he 
man wasn't satisfied and continued 
to accust' them of being phonies. 
"Yiy God, you can't trust anybody anymore," Wiles said. 

Police, who suspect tht' victims are being duped by former patrol­men, say they fear the rash ofrip-ofts could continue until one of the im­postors is tracked down. 
Officers believe that once one of the counterfeits is arrested, the others will be scared off. 
Police Chief Bill Rodriguez said yesterday that authorities set up decoys during the weekend hoping to trap the impostors. but weren't successfuL He refused to discuss how the decoys were being used. 
Police say at least three difterent men, two using motorcycles and an­other a whitt' sedan with fla~hing yellow and red grille lights. are believed to have tricked motorists into paying tines. 

All the victims spoke Spanish and some complained the phony of­tkers' Spanish was bad. investigators said. 
When he refused to leave. the of Festival on February 5 at Erskine ficers arrested him for disorderly Park and Golf Course. The Senate is conduct. a misdemt'anor. considering arranging transporta-
Tom Burke looks for direction asjoe MannetZv taking a study b1·eak in the basement of aims for a good semester. These "hot shots" were LaFortune. (Photo by Tom White). 
In Europe 

Soviets maintain nuclear edge 
WASHI;\;GTO!\ (A T P) -The Reagan administration says the Soviel llnion is insisting on preserv­ing its massive nuclear weapons ad­vantage in Europe while ignoring American appeals for the elimina­tion ofsuch armaments. 
The \X'hite House and the State Department issued identical state­ments on the subject yesterday in response to reports that liS and Soviet negotiators in Geneva had reached an intormal arms agreement last summer that later was rt'jected hy Wa~hington and Moscow. 
According to the reports, Paul H. :\!itze, the chiefl.'.S. negotiator to the talks on limiting medium-range nuclear missiles. had worked out the tt'ntative agreement in discussions with his Soviet counterpart, Yuli Kvitsinsky. 
There were contradictory reports about the nature of the agreement, with some officials saying it would 
• Disaster 

continuedfrom page I 
semester exams. The trip is es­timated to cost approximately ·Hl dollars. 
The Senate is continuing to in­vestgate the possibility of installing cable television on campus. It is also considering making the \lCI phone network available to campus resi­dents. Before doing so, the Notre Dame phone system would need to he improved. 
Notre Dame students have been invited to the South Bend Winter tion to make the Festival more easily accessible to students. 
The recently completed PACE report will be evaluated by the Senate and suggestions will be of­fered to joyce regarding it. Commit­tees were assigned for this purpose at last night's meeting. 
The Senate noted that the "Chanct' to Dance" program sponsored by several South Quad dorms Friday night attracted about 600 people and was, Burke said, "tht' biggest success in a long time here." The Senate also decided not to in­stall additional phones in the Library. as there is no need for tht'm during most of the day. 

·--------------------------·Men's Hair Styling at its finest I
I 
I ",~r;-'>,~ 'The Knights ofthe Castle' I 
I 
For the total look on a styled Hair Cut: I I HairCut Shampoo ~n~ 1 I
Uk UCChrS I

I Blow Dry & Condition 
Hrs. Tue, wed, Sat 8:30-S:.>.:J Reg. $15.oo . {,/.( 1
I Thur. Fn 8:30-8:.~01 Closed Mon Now $8·50 with coupon I 272-0312 1
I 277-1619 HairCutOnly Now$6·00 Withcoupon I I 545(~~-~~;r;~~ Lane Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. II . , We are only minutes from campus 
I Across from Martm s ..I 
1.-----------coVPON•------~--­
have preserved the Soviet advantage and others saying it would have ensured Soviet-American parity. 
In either case, the proposed ac­cord negotiatt'd by Nitze represented a departure from the administration's position that the Soviets dismantle all of their nuclear weapons targeted at Western Europe. In return, NATO countries would cancel their proposed plan to install 5'2 cruise and Pershing II missiles starting in December 1983. 
Nitze apparently conducted the discussions away from the negotiat­ing site during informal exchanges with Kvitsinsky. The administration statements yesterday suggested that tactic does not violate Nitze's in­sructions. 
And White House Deputy Press Secretary Larry Speakes said Presi­dent Reagan does not feel Nitze "had done anything out of the ordinary." 
But supporters of Eugt'ne V Ros­tow, the ousted director of the l '.S. 
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, believe Rostow was t1rt'd 
because of his role in recommend· ing the informal accord to the White House. 
One such aide was reported to he my~tified as to why Nitzt' appears to 
have escaped from the episode with· out criticism while Rostow's role in it cost him his job. 

~----------------------------, 

T-SHIRTS 
STILL 
AVAILABLE! 
Call Now! John (x1570) 

Japan Club Meeting!! 
I· 

Wed., Jan., 6:45, LaFortune I Foreign studies candidates I 
I
and others welcome!! 
I 

L----------------------------~ 

Business & Technology_Tues_day,_Jarm_ary1_8,1_983_Pa_ge 
Science Update ­
The tumbling nuclear reactor section of a 
Soviet spy satellite has dropped in orbit to within about 128 miles above the surface ofthe Earth, the Pentagon said today. The satellite, powered by nuclear fuel, broke up in space some two weeks ago, and its I,000-pound reactor portion has gradually been slipping downward. It originally was in an orbit wl-tich carried it within about 160 miles of the Earth, intelligence sources said. The Pentagon said the projection still estimates that debris from the satellite probably will reach earth late this month. Last week, Dr. Richard Wagner described as "unpredictable" the time and place where the remains of the satellite will reach earth. Wagner, Defense Secretary Caspar 
Weinberger's special assistant on nuclear matters, said last Thursday "there is a very small chance" that hazardous nuclear fuel aboard the tumbling Soviet satellite would reach the surface intact. -AP 
Research Update 
Grants awarded to the University of Notre Dame during December totaled S2,047,6-,0 with nearly 90 percent, or S 1.81 7,829, going toward research, including: 
• 
S...,20,000 from the Department ofEnergy (DOE) for research on the effects of radiation on matter conducted by the DOE-sponsored Radiation Laboratory under the direction of Dr. Robert Schuler. An additional S192.000 grant for Radiation Laboratory equipment was also awarded by the DOE. 

• 
S368,843 from the Department ofEnergy for research on multi­solute subsurface transport modeling for energy solid wastes by Drs. Aaron Jennings and David Kirkner, assistant professors of civil engineering, and Dr. Thomas Theis, associate professor of civil engineering. 

• 
S347,970 from the Lilly Endowment, Inc. for a study entitled "The New Parish" conducted by the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 

• 
S I 00,329 from the National Institutes of Health for research on glycolipid metabolism in normal and pathological tissues by Dr. Sub­hash Basu, associate professor ofchemistry. -The Observer 


· all StreetUpdate 
The stock marketsettled for a moderate gain yester­day with late selling after a broad advance at midday. Analysts said hopes for a widening economic recovery continued to help the market. The DowJones average of30 industrials, up more than I 0 a• its high point for the session. wound up at 1,084.81 -3.96 points higher than Friday's close. New York Stock Exchange volumte reached 89.21 million shares, up from 86.48 miliion in the previou~ session. Analysts said traders drew encouragement from the iatest statistical readings on the economy. The govern111ent reported Friday that wholesale prices rose only 0.1 percent in December and the decline of industrial production slowed to 0.1 percent in the same month. Dominating market activity Monday, as they did for much ofthe time last week, were American Telephone & Telegraph, up 1.'; at 68.5, and IBM, up .75 at 99.25.-AP 
j
1 
! I 


Environment increasing cancer 
By BOB SCANLON 
B&T Reporter 

A distinguished professor of biol­
ogy, expressing "frustration and an­
ger," clai· ·d that environmental 
causes, n:u.y of which can be 
prevente,' arc increasing the num­
ber ofcancer related deaths. 

In his lecture entitled "Environmental Carcinogens and the Prevention ofCancer," Professor David M. Prescott of the University ofColorado, Boulder. noted that one out of every tlve persons eventually dies ofcancer. 
Despite this fact, cancer is not in­evitable, said Prescott. He cited evidence which shows that cancer was much less prevalent in earlier periods. 
Rctering to radiation and chemi­cals as the two major cau~es of can­cer. Prescott said it is the latter which ha~ especially contributed to the rise in modern cancer rates. Our environment has a greater number ofcancer causing agents than it used to have. 
Detlning an environmental agent as a ~ubstance outside of the human body which in some way gets inside of it, Prescott went on to list and ex­plain the most serious carcinogens. He said that cigarette smoking is the single worst preventable cause of cancer. "Anybody who says that smoking doesn't cause cancer is either stupid or dishonest," Prescott said. 
He was very critical of govern­ment subsidies and price supports for the tobacco industry. Calling smoking a form of nicotine addic­tion, Prescott said that "The govern­ment is the single largest drug pusher in the world." 
Prescott also mentioned hazard­ous subMances encountered on the job as a major cause of cancer. Besides well known dangerous jobs such as coal mining ant.! metal 
working, ~hon order cooks, hair stylists ant.! university research assis­tants are people who have a higher rate of cancer than the rest of the population. 

Professor David M~ Prescott of the Unit•ersi(J' of Colorado at Boulder spoke on "Environmental Carcinogens and the Pret•en­tion ofCancer" at the Galvin Life Scie11ce Center Auditorium yes­terday afternoon. See Bob Scan/on's stOI')' abo11e. (Photo by Tom White) 
Prescott also blamed the 1i1odern tnat consumption of alcohol, and diet for high cancer rates. He was red wine or beer in particular, con­especially critical of the high fat tributes to cancer. He suggested intake in more developed countries. white wine and gin as the least harm­
He pointed to the much lower can­ful intoxicants. cer levels in poorer countries which consume less meat. To avoid cancer, Prescott recom­
Coffee, tea, apple cider, and mends that people avoid smoking, smoked foods such as bacon, are dangerous occupations, and bad expecially dangerous. Prescott said eating and drinking habits. 
By Bell Laboratories 
Voice-activated phone patented 
"Smart" telephones arc becoming Laboratones that can convert an 
microphone that could be clipped commonplace in America. Equipped ordinary telephone into one that to a lapel. 
with microprocessors, they can store dozens of numbers in their memories and call them automati­cally at the touch ofa few buttons or at a designated time. 
But none is as smart as an inven­tion newly patented by Bell asked for insructions and obeys oral commands without anyone picking it up or even touching it. 
The Bell Labs system could be built into a small box attached to an ordinary telephone, and would probably include a portable wireless 
Students in business, science 
& 
engineering: 
INTERESTED IN WRITING ABOUT DEVELOPMENTS IN YOUR FIELD? 
Ifso, call ALEXat 239-5303. 
To operate the telephone, a caller would merely turn on his microphone. tell the telephone to "offhook" and wait for a dial tone. 

He would then speak the name of the person or company he wanted to call, and the telephone would make the connection. When the con\"ersa­tion was tlnishcd, the caller would command the telephone to hang up. 
What makes the Bell Labs telephone ~o versatile is its n>Ice pattern recognition system which com!Jares the frequency an.t amplitude patterns that sou·1d waves produce in an electrical sit~· ..!1 -and its big memory. 
Although Bdl Laboratorit·~. i~ not a manufacturer, another subsidiary of the Bell system, Western Elec.tric Co., may put the talking telephone into production if there seems to be sufficient demand for it. 
Some of the tlrst benetlciaries might be the bedridden and those with poor vision or crippled hands. But the greatest demand could come from people who consider themselves slaves to rhe telephone and simply want to reverse roles. 
01scover .\'eu·s Serviu 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---~--~-----------------------~ 
Tuesday,January 18, 1983-page 7 
Editorials 
A nickel for your thoughts© 
The following is the first ofa series on the immediate and long-term effects of the Copyright Act of 1976. The readily visible sign of the act, "Warning Concerning Copyright Restrictions," is posted beside all campus photocopying machines: 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
"The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, l inited States Code) governs the making of photocopies ·or other reproduc­tions ofcopyrighted material. 
"L'nder certain conditions specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be 'used for any purpo~e other than private study, scholarship, or re:.earch.' Ifa user makes a re­quest for. or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of 'fair use,' that user may be liable for copyright in­fringement. 
"This institution reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fultHiment of the order would involve viola­tion ofcopyright law." 
L~t December, nine publishing firms filed suit against New York University for copyright infringement. Nine professors and a copy cen­ter were named also in the suit which charged that the defendants flagrantly violated the Copyright Act of 1976. 
Undoubtedly, the results of the case will af­fect the rest of American academia. This is no small-time affair; involved are one of the na­tion's largest private uqiversities and six of America's most influential publishers: Houghton-Mifflin; Alfred A. Knopf; Little, Brown and Co.; Macmillan; Random House; and Simon and Schuster. 
Until recently, few educators took copyright laws seriously. I can remember only one teacher who took the time and trouble to receive permission to reprint copyrighted materials -that person was a high school religion teacher who wanted to photocopy songs from a modern Catholic hymnal. 
To most professors, the detailed and strin­gent guidelines ofcopyright laws seemed only to apply to corporations and non-academic in­stitutions which might make financial killings on illegally reproduced materials. But the privileged position educational communities once held no longer exists. 
With the continuing depression-like condi­tions ofthe book publishing industry, colleges and universities are becoming more and more an integral part ofthe bookselling market. The reason is simple: few individuals have enough money to buy paperbacks, much less quality hard bound editions of the classics and research books. 
Instead, any such luxury money, if-spent on books, is being budgeted for self-help and en­tertainment publications, books which either 

aid  individuals  in  their  financial  woes  or  
magazines  which  dismiss  life's  troubles  
through fantasy.  ·  

The result is that publishers are printing fewer editions of academic material and so there is now relatively little selection of the works of the great authors and educators. The decreasing selection decreases price com­petition among publishers and pushes prices sk-yward. 
But an academic institution is unlike an in­dividual in one important way: it needs books for its very survival. In effect, a college or uni­versity is caught in the stranglehold of American publishers. And the publishers know it. 
One need not be a tmsiness major to see the enormous increases in academic books over the past few years. Paperbacks now rival hardbound books not only in content. but in price as well. A new I05-page paperback, available in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Intenwtional Accounting and Financial Reporting, is a required text of an international business clas~. It sells for S3I. If someone were to make fifty-three II" by l<t" copies of the text, he need only spend S2.65. 
Many professors have attempted to sidestep the high prices ofsuch books and give student pocketbooks a break by photocopying small parts ofworks and journals. 
While few if any professors at Notre Dame have photocopied great amounts ofcopywrit­ten works, some such as the professors at New York University are charged with less than minor copying violations. The reproduction and sale ofentire books and complete works ill" not considered "fair use" of copyrighted materials. 
Tomorrow: possible solutions to the copyright problem. 

$2 Million Hat Trick 

P.O. BoxC  
Sexuality and ethics  
Dear Editor: It was not until 1930, with the Anglican Lambeth Conference, that any Christian denomination said that contraception could ever by objectively right. Yet, in just a half­century, the legitimacy of contraception has become an implicit assumption not only of virtually all discourse on the subject but of government policy as well. The Observer has rendered a valuable service through its recent presentation of various views on contracep­tion. Unfortunately, the pro-contraception es­says in Tbe Observer justify the conclusion that their authors have not read the two basic documents on the subject, Humanae Vitae, Pope Paul VI's 1968 encyclical, and Familiaris Consortio, the ApoMolic Exhortation issued by Popejohn Paulll in December, 1981, or, at least, that the authors of the essays do not un­derstand the rea~n why contraception is condemned bv the unbroken teaching of the Church. In Humanac Vitae, which many Catholic students know only through professorial caricatures of it, Pope l'aul stressed that the law of God prohibits "every action which, either is anticipation of the conjugal act, or in ib accomplishment. or in the development of its natural consequences, proposes, whether as an end or as a means, to render procreation impossible.'' This teaching "is founded upon the inseparable connection, willed by God and unable to be broken by man on his own initiative, between the two meanings of the conjugal act: the unitive meaning and the procreative meaning." Contraception is wrong because, as Pope John Paul II said in Familiaris Com•o~\'0. "When couples, by means of recourS<-to o;.,lntraception, separate these two meanmgs tnat God the Creator has inscribed in t:l~ being of man and woman and  in the dynamism of their sexual communion, mutual masturbation, pornography is the they act as arbiters of the divine plan and separation of sex from life and the reduction they manipulate and degrade human ofsex to an exercise in seJt:gratification. In the sexuality and with it themselves and their process, a woman becomes an object rather married partner by altering its value of total than a person. One characteristic of con­self-giving." It is a question therefore, of traception is its tendency to depersonalize the dominion: who is in charge, man or God? (In woman. Pope Paul, in Humanae Vitae, warned Humanae Vitae, incidentally, Pope Paul also that contraception would cause women to be explained the legitimacy of partial abstinence viewed as sex objects, that "man, growing from sexual relations during the woman's used to the employment ofanti-contraceptive fertile period, provided that such partial practices, may finally lose respect for the abstinence is practiced for "serious woman and, no longer caring for her physical motives.") and psychological equilibrium, may come to the point ofconsidering her as a mere instru­Beyond an apparent failure to grasp the es­ment of selfish enjoyment, and no longer assential reason why contraception is wrong, his respected and beloved companion."Tbe Obserz•er essays showed little awareness of the role ofcontraception as a root cause of •Homosexual activity. If sex has no in­other evils. The general acceptance of the herent relation to procreation, why not let morality of the act ofcontraception is a major Freddy marry George? The legitimization of factor in the following developments: homosexual activity is predictable in con­• Abortion. Contraception is the prevention traceptive society, which cannot say that of life 't\'hile abortion is the taking of life. But homosexual relation1> are objectively wrong both come !rom a common root: the willful without condemning itself Instead, separation of the unitive and procreative homosexual living must be regarded as an aspects of sex. Widespread contraception ·'alternate" life style -which is what it is, if tends to require abortion as a backstop. And sex has no inherent relation to reproduction. the contraceptive mentality of unwanting On the rAntr"Iry, a society in which it makes babies tends to reduce objections to abortion '"' diherence whether boy:. ..._-f). 11' -Is or to the emotional or esthetic. There is a tech­other boys i~ not orl;· -1n thr rnad to ev•'rr. nological link, too, in that many so-called con­tion, it is clinically insane. traceptives, such as the IUD, are abortifacient. •In vitro fertilization. Contraception is the •Euthanasia. The contraceptive ethic, taking of the unitive without the procreative. because it denies that life is always good. In vitro fertilization is the reverse. The teach­prepares the ground for permissive abortion. ing Church has warned against this as a per­Once abortion has accustomed people to the version. We are already seeing various idea that burden~ome lives are not worth refinements of this technique, including living, the way is clear tor euthanasia for the serious proposals that spare embryos be a5ed and the "useless." frozen and then defrosted and given, or ~old, •Pornography. Like contraception, which to prospective "mothers," that the embryo, reduces sexual relations to an exercise in be used for experiments or that they be used  for spare parts for persons in need of new or­gans. •Divorce and child abuse. The divorce rate soared during the years in which contracep­tion became practically universal and sterilization became the most popular method. This is not merely a post hoc ergo propter hoc deduction. If sex and marriage are not intrinsically related to the generation ofchildren, then marriage loses its reason for permanence. It tends to become an alliance for individual self-fulfillment -what Pope Paul called "the juxtaposition of two solitudes." The refusal to accept re~pon­sibility for others and to endure frustration is characteristic of the contraceptive mind. According to Dr. Edward Lenoski, director of pediatric emergency services at Los Angeles County Hospital, 90 percent of the battered children in a six-year study "were planned pregnancies." Since the introduction of the pill, child beating has increased threefold. The contraceptive mind tends to be hostile to new or burdensome life. It would be a mistake, however, to say that a "contraceptive mentality" is undesirable bur rl1::r individual acts ofcontraception u.n L~ P'~: .l J .md even mt>ni ~··!ous in some ca-... :·, .~~ L -roneous dis­tinction was t1ath rejtTtcd h) Pope Paul and Pope john Paull!. The root error is the accep­tance ofthe idea that the deliberate st"paration of the unitive and procreative aspects of sex can ever be r..ight. And the issue cannot be un­der~tood without a serious and prayerful reading of both Humanae Vitae and Familiaris Consortio. I have copies of these for students who cannot find them elsewhere. Cbarles E. Rice Professor ofLaw  

Ihe-ObserYer=== Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Obsen .,.. i:; th<; :ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor........ .......Ryan Ver Berkmoes Co1ltroller............................................Eric Schulz
versity ofNo•re Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflecr 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager. ...................Chris Owen
the policie~ of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMC Executit'e Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ................... .......Paul McGinn System:; Manager ............. .............Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all memhers ofthe community, 
Features Editor ......... ........... _lo:;eph M~sumeci
and the free expr--s,,!on ofvarying opinions on_campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3,.1966 
(219) 239-5303 


,­
Sj7orts=ll==r=t=·e~~~S=====~~~=================T=ue=sct=ay=,J=an=ua=ry=l=8,=19=8.=)==pa=g~==8
lh The I>IJSert•er and /be Associated J>rC'SS 
-~--­

The Notre Dame Boxing Club announces 
th;.~t practice for the 19H:I Bengal Bouts has started. Practice is from 
:1::10 p.m. to 5:50 p.m. \lomiay through Frida\·. Anyone who is in­
terestnl is welcome. :'\:o prior experience i~ required. -The Oh­
serz•er 
The NVA office has announced deadline~ I(Jr entries for 'orne spring semester sports. Tomorrow is the dc:adline ti>r both men's and women·~ volkyball. The deadline for doubles racquc:thall and doubles handball is Thursday Jan. 20. The office abo made sume additional announct·ments. The tennis ctmic continues today and Thursday from H:50 to lll::\0 p.m. featuring Scott Ford. for more information call l.W-61 00. Cross-country ski rentals are available again this year. Call 2:19-6100 for more details. finallv. aerobic ex­ercises are being held on .\londays and Wnlne~days at ·t.l 0 in the ACC. -The Obsen•er 
The Windsurfing Club will hold signups for les­sons today and tomorrow as part of the Free l'niversity program. Signups will take place from 6 to 9 p.m. both nights in the Lafortune Ballroom. -The Obserr,er 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will hold a meeting Thursday night, january 20, in Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's at 8:00. ;\;otre Dame students can meet at the shuttle stop at the Grotto by 7::35 for transportation. All are invited. -The Ohserver 
The Tae Kwon Do Club will hold its nrst practice on Thursday,January 20, in the ACC Pit. New members are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
The SMC co-ree soccer league starts tomor­
row from 9 to 10::10 p.m. in the Angela Athh:tic Facility. No advance registration is necessary. Teams are formed upon arrival. The league is open to all Notre Oame and Saint :\tary's students, staff, faculty, and administration. -Tbe Ohserver 
Mark Doman and Brent Chapman, Notre 
Oame hockey player~. will discuss the troubled future of the hockev program tonight on Speaking ofSports on WS:\ID A:\1. They will joi;1 host Ken frysztak from 10 to II p.m. -The Obsen•er 
The Saint Mary's basketball team, winner offour ofits last t1ve games, travels to .\1anchester College today for a ~,oo p.m. game. The Belles currently stand at 5--t on the season and are still in the hunt for a berth in the NAJA district tournament. The Obsert'er 
By The Associated Press 

The l"CLA. Bruins hecamt· the tiJUrth team to hold the "'o. I spot in 
1 lhe A.ssociared Press eolkge ba~kt:t­ball poll thi~ ~ea~on. vaulting from tifth plaet· to t1r~t 1e~tenJay. follow­ing a WtTk of upset~. in which the top thrn.: teams were hcaten. 'i"he Bruin~ raised their record to 
I 1 I '' Hh three Pantk I0 Con­terence victones last week -H~-~(, over Arizona ~tate, ')--6':> over Oregon and 99---over Oreg<m ~tate. They received 22 tlrst-place votes and a wtal of 1,099 points in the latest Wt'ekly balloting by a 5~­memher national panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. 
ln the extremely dose balloting, tht· Bruins tlnished only eight points ahead of runner-up Indiana. The lloosiers, 12-1, fourth last week and No. 1 earlier in the season, collected 29 tlr~t -place vote~ -seven more than VCLA -but only 1,091 points. 
l "CL\ rt·placed \-!emphis State as the "'o. 1 team after the Tigers were upended by Virginia Tech 69-5(> last \londay night. \!emphis State. I 2-1. ·bounced back with an H0-6:1 victory over Cincinnati, but ~till slipped to 
.sixth in  thi~  wcek's poll with HIO  
points,  including  one  first-place  
vote.  

;\;orth Carolina, last year·~ "'CAA champion anti winner of nine con­secutive: games, including la~t Satur­day·~ I01-95 triumph over \'irginia, leaped from 1lth place to third. The Tar Heels, 12-5. received three t1rst­place votes and H65 points. Last week, the surging Tar Heels also made the biggest jump, leaping from No. IH to No. 11. 
Arkansas, one of the nation's two major unbeaten teams, advanced from seventh to f()Urth after raising its record to 1:3-0 by defeating Texas A&M 66-6.f and Southern Methodist 63-'i6. The Razorbacks got two No. 1 votes and H50 points. 
Standings 
NBA 
Eastern Conference 
Atlantic Division 
W L Philadelphia 31 5 Boston 28 9 New Jersey 25 15 Washington 17 19 New York 14 24 
Central Division 
Milwaukee 27 13 
Atlanta 19 19 
Detrott 19 21 
Ch1cago 13 25 
Indiana 12 24 
Cleveland 6 30 
Western Conference 
Midwest Division 
W L San Antomo 25 15 KansasC1ty 21 16 Denver 19 21 Utah 17 24 Dallas 15 22 Houston 5 32 
Pacific Division Los Angeles 28 8 Phoemx 25 15 Portland 24 15 Seattle 24 15 Golden State 16 23 San Doego 10 30 

PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE  
Adams Division  
Pet. 861 757 625 472 368  GB 3 5 8 14 18  Boston Montreal Buffalo Quebec Hartford  W L T 29 10 7 24 13 8 22 14 9 19 20 6 12 28 5 Patrick Division  GF 192 211 177 188 151  GA Pis. 127 65 163 56 145 53 191 44 216 29  
675 500 475 342 333  7 8 13 13  Philadelphia· N Y Islanders NY Rangers Washmgton PittSburgh  28 24 22 19 12  12 16 18 15 27  6 r 5 11 6  197 110 180 171 144  137 139 158 164 212  62 55 49 49 30  
167  19  CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Smythe Dvision  
W  L  T  GF  GA  PIS  
Pet. 625 568 475 415 405 135  GB 2 5 6 8 5 8 5 18 5  Edmonton Calgary Wmmpeg Vancouver Los Angeles Ch1cago M1nnesota  26 13 8 18 22 7 18 22 5 15 21 9 15 23 6 Norris Division 28 11 7 23 12 9  252 189 176 163 153 201 193  186 195 192 173 191 158 173  60 43 41 39 36 63 55  
778 625 615  5 5.5  StLOUIS De1ro1t Toronto  15 11 10  25 24 24  7 12 9  166 146 158  185 199 196  37 34 29  
615  55  
410  13.5  
250  20  

Week of upsets 

UCLA takes its turn as No. 1 
"'evada-L.ts Vegas. the other un­defeated team --aho with a I :'-0 record after defeating Pacitk H6-CJ:I and Fresno ~tate 'i6-c~H -climbed three place~. fwm eighth 10 fifth. with HI 5 points. 
Virginia, 12-2. the :'l:o. I team in the preseason poll, tumbled from second to ~evemh with H05 points. one point ahead of St. John·~. 1-t-1, which suffered it~ fir~t loss Saturday. 6H-6·1, to Boston College. 
Rounding out the Top Ten were :\lo. 9 Lomsville, 1:1-2, with -'io points, and Iowa, 11-2, with 5~1. Louisville abo was ninth last week. whik Iowa was I 2th. 
Kentuck), 1 1-5. headed the Second Ten. The Wildcats were followed by !\1is~ouri, Villanova, Hom.ton, Syracust·, .\linnesota, Vir­ginia Tech, Oklahoma State, George­town and Auburn. 
Virginia Tech, Oklahoma State, Georgetown and Auburn were new­comers to the poll this week. 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams 1n The Associated Press poll, w1th flfst-place votes 1n paren­theses, th1s season s records and total pomts Po1nts based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are 
·ralicized  
1 UCLA (22)  11·1  1099  
2 Indiana (29)  12·1  1091  
3. North Carolina (3)  12-3  865  
4 Arkansas (2)  13-0  850  
5 UNLV  14·0  815  
6 Memphis State (1)  12·1  810  
7 V1rg1ma  12-2  805  
8 StJohn s  14-1  804  
9 LOUISVIlle  13·2  750  
10. Iowa  11·2  571  
11 l(entucky  11-3  518  
12 Mtssoun  12-2  456  
13. Villanova  10-2  450  
14 Houston  13-2  435  
15. Syracuse  12·2  249  
16 Minnesota  11·2  184  
17 \llrg1ma Tech  14-1  171  
18 Oklahoma State  13·2  153  
19 Georgetown  11-4  115  
20 Auburn  10-3  96  

Erratum 
The two women in the photo ac­companying the ~aint Mary's Board ofGovernance story yesterday were incorrectly identit1ed in the caption. The women in the photo were Mary Anne O'Donnell, director of student activities, and Erin Flood. 
The Observer w111 accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m However. classtfteds to appear 1n the next ISSue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to tnsertton. All classtfteds must be prepatd 
etther 111 person or through the mail. 

lclassifieds 
Send personals to Sophomores studying Happy B1nhday Susan!I You re a great DEANNA'S DAD IS A PILOT !1 1MALE ROOMMATE WANTED to share 2 
abroad !!! These lonely hearts would love SISter (occasionally) Love, An1malNOTICES TICKETS to hear from you ! Oel1ver to 317 Morns­Z1ggy and Pee-Wee The Wally ana bedroom apl 2nd floor of duplex 2 m11es 
from campus $67 50/month plus Ut11it1eS Grad preferred 289-8118 sey or 212 Pasquenlla West ~Y ran Beaver of Pangborn Hall (SMC of the
Happy B-Day Bobo from your adm1nng room1e Love always, Al1en
0 K NO MORE CUTE STUFF IF YOU 20th!!!l~ Woods look out!) NEED A HAIRCUT AND DON T WANT 
Look!Here s the deal II need 3 GAs for the 

TO PAY MORE THAN $4(GUYS) OR Feb 5 Bball game aga1ns1 So 1 F1tness Fa1r
Bob Bobo Kan1eck1 IS 21 today Come $6(GIRLS) THEN CALL TODAY FOR Sunday, Jan 30. 1983 
2 Grad/Law stu1€n1s wanted to share 4-Carol1na OK? Tom.288-8004 Would you like Ia become one of the great lo 321 Howard and make 1t a b1g day for 
YOUR VERY OWN APPOINTMENT bdrm home Wllh 2 other law students JournalistiC g1ants ol our 11me? Jotn the 1 00-415pm
th1s gorgeous red-headed stud Or call MICHOLE 233·8456 Completely furn1shed $75/mo 288· Angela AthletiC Fac1i1ty
ranks of the Saml Marys news team ln­
h1m at 8252 Th1s cut1e welcomes all gals3109 Sa1nt Mary s College 
lttrested? Come to an organ1zat1onal and guys "'eating this Thursday a1 6 p m 1n the SPECIAL GUEST SPEAKER 
Sdlnl Mary s Observer otf1ce m the base­
PERSONAl~ 

WillyeWh•le rnenl of Reg1na Soutt1 Be there 
Do your ears perk up at the mention of MOTIVAliON EVERYDAY LIFE INFOStudent housing . 6·bdr•n nouse, fully
[ LOST/FOUND 
Woodward and Burnslem? Does your CENTERS PRfSEIIJTATIONS. YOGA.
carpeted, 2 balhs, 2 k1lchens wllo~ 232 

pulse race when you gel d whiff of AEROBICS. WEIGHT TRAINING. ETC Susan.
4l~~7 or 272·7767 

newspnnt? Are you eager to earn your FOUND. Eyeglosses betwee>' Flanner very own reporters notebook? Do you mech 1 06 duto :necharucs s1er 108 •ntro SAINT MARYS STUDENTS' Do youHon , vou re the sweetest & n1cest young 
read your Observer every day anrt lh1nk .-nd PW See NO lost/found aepl have news 1n your blood? If you answered to stereo buy1ng psych 111 dallng Jnke
doe around I m lookmg forward to spend­lo yoursell Boy. would 1 like to qet In­Ing some 11me w1th you toclay Have a Yep to any or all of these questions, 117 stand lJP comeay QUit 118 beg1nnmgvolver:! 1n tttiS tasl-pdced JOUrnalistiC lrfB

[ \\/ANTED 
nappy 19th B-oa y Hope Jl s vouJ best

FOUND--Pair of woman s glasser. be­and 0·•u are d SAIN r MARYS STU· talk 9Lhtar lore t 16 <>tory tP.IIIng sa11 143 ~~ :ef1 Stephefl Chemlstfy and the F1eld OENT. Tl1e Obseover IS the place for you intro fO Ntnrtsurf;r,g spce 123 11"'­
But how., The answer ~~at llandl Come to 
ever our 1983 orqantzat1ona1 rneet1ng thiS H(:;_:::,e ToclaLmcatlx3454 The 1983 Sa1nt Marv s news team tS cw dv~tr,~ .£~··,·~·~ n: s.pcKe .gambl 124 nano­
Love. 

;hurSdayat6~ m mtheSamtMarysOIJ-Young Buck 
renUy beH"lfJ otgdnlzed Come to the ICapp .·~ ...,J' ~'! .;tY 1J oo1o 133 •rotro to LOST· a wntnar. 5. SIZe :': iong, ~aroon rneet1ng and f1nd out more Thufsday lhe INdter ~10 0") ','~"1\J. r"IJ-:.0:: tt\eS(l ClaSSeS !n 
Nar-te'1 !O buy· one •t:asonably pnced 5erver olt•ce (basement of Regtna South) 
sota ca1l mary or ~~'ar!y 79'J4 Bett1ere tweed W!n!er coat It was !ost at ~he South 20th at 6 p m 1n the So1nt Marys Ob· ttl& ,' •iJ c-r SM~ .,;;.JSS re·~1s1er tt'11S 
Otrlln'J Hall :a~..1 >Ned ff you nave seen or server off1ce (basement of Reg1rta southJ semb.· ~me":Jtm -. 1 .;o req;stel for F:ea
AUDITIONS AUDITIONS found 1t. ~ease contact Lllv {7974) sr,ao-Happy 21st Good thing fOU re Be there Unrv~r-=.~" , :~t;vvo .:::lasses d"ld mdny
MAN OF LA MANCHA Thanks TTlOTe ·!i : .Jtb & ¥"VA:in . Jan 18&, 9) from
I N~['D -'. RIDE TO MADISON.WI finally teyOI. now a certam sorneone can 1 

TUESDAY JANUARY 16FRI[,.Y <1813 he accused of cradle-roob1nq Now n1at Do yotJI e;:trs pe1k up at torncl abuse of the 6-Y •n !he 8d'l;t~iTI uf LaFortune F.rs.t
WASHING I ON HALL 't'l.l LOST. One dark Diu& CB Insulated w;nte:r COfT'~ in'>! Sf:· . 1
10u ve reached the iegal afJC of ;l:;enl. Nr1 :·.~,: ··:lmrr.unJiy? Does vour pulse
MAKE YOUR IMPOSSIBLl DRI:'.AM
,_ire you sure \'DU wa.•·' 111 ';· l-14.·1~ ct good

Jacke!. w1th nght blue stnPP. las! seP.,.. .at fir(.'= .~'i-:.·• · ·•1, .··1 wh1ffotqreasepa111t? Bn•Jqets Sal o1ght If you !aoi< ·t by acco­or.e Uear'! Love. VOtJ1 ::IIJ'•dC} .r1 2-7 Ars you tl.lg(•r to lr1ugn tJntll you gag? Do SOMt:-A'-T'> Th.•:r ALMOST MADE 
COME TRUE•; 
dent. please return 111 Call Matt at !1369 you t~ave ·l'' ~xcP.ss ol --dcnhol 1n your TH\1 II:; KEf>'IAN REVUEFOR SALE blood? lf'you artswea~d ourp to any or Bes:t ~Hit' tr~rhor.t;..·J in Ca'cutta 
HAf'PY BIRTHDAY SUSAN!' frono troo 
dJrector of Har. Ia Hart I' S Fra..w,,y ITS TIME all of these quesllons, and you have a starr1r:g Mother 1 t.ere~a
sem1~ his lOve (Arll) To start fhln"tng auoLJt 8:1-84 Stude;"''t GOOD SENSE OF HUMOR. The 83 L1vi;:1 w•tt", ~"*' \'OV! at 1-'overty 
Government posltJOf'S at SM'....: If vou a1e Keenan Revue JS the place lor you! Be 8181 · ,,p Cardinal Cody 
TECHNICS CASSETTE DECK Interested tn runmng :or ANY 00:51tlor. B•.)Or\S '·fJR SALE Econom1cs 1lth. there and get happy. Sungtur..f'J on. l'lr-, CNo•lle Dome RSfJ31 Top of 11ne w/Diby Besl of­you must come to an tnfonnrJ11i.)f) rne(: 11ng l ak1ng b1ues. The Problems of su-•1g by Rtch Conyers fer x1178 e11her Jan <.4 at 6:00 or Jan. ?.5 at g·oo Ptulosoph~·, A Short Calculus. StaiiSIICal Ha! You guys, 115 Susan Raab s 19th Towe:"l~~ lnfdrnc-li
I5-bd•m completely fum•shed close to p rn. Both sess1ons are 1n the StuctenLAf· AnalySio Marketing, ln:ro to Personality. b1nhd"y 1 We want Ia party wolh HEAl! filmed at St. Ed's \ campus. comt011able house IN qroup of 5 MUST SELL' B-8~11 season tox Pkgs hue; C01"'ft:trence Room If you ndve any Accounting antj L1fesav1ng call M1chole Love your party ammal tnends. Carolyn, or6fo-.98.3·84 Phane288-J942at:er6 A&B Cnli Dave >d•nsnr ql..iE:SI:ons, Call Monrc d at 50 I 7 233-845<' Sleph. Mana. and A1mee dome an~ see me t]ff.tat acrs thar maae If! 
~~RRENT 
1 r_._...._..,._________________.lo!<lf' ""7'1o.~~~~·N----~----~~~N.<:dl-~----"tf--------------------------------------...._______ 
The Observer ·Tuesday,January 18, 1983-page 9 
Sullivan A wards 
Salazar, Tabb head nominees 

1:\DIA:\:\POLI~ ( .\1') -Boswn \tarathom:r Alberto ~alazar and record-breaking runner \lary Deck­er Tabh arc among lli world-class amateur athletes. six men and t{JUr 
women, who have been nominated for the James E. Sullivan \lemorial Award recognizing the nation's top amateur athlete. 
The 53rd annual award, named for the founder and former president of the Amateur Athletic Union, will be presented Feb. 21 in Indianapolis, it was announced yesterday. 
Nominated for the award are: 
•Boxer 
Tyrell Biggs. Biggs, 22, of Philadelphia became the first super heavyweight cha~pion in the world and the only person to claim two consecutive U.S. super heavyweight titles. 

•Wrestler 
Gregory Gibson. Gib­son, 29, of Quantico, Va., is a ser­geant in the U.S. Marine Corps and the first man to win world cham­pionship medals in all three amateur wrestling styles. 

•Figure 
skater Scott Hamilton. Hamilton, 24, of Denver is the first 


.-\merican since Tom \li"ood to hold consective world titles. 
•Di\·cr 
Greg Louganis. Louganis. 22, of Costa \lcsa, Calif., is the first male. diver to break the ~oo-point mark for the springboard event when he won the springboard and platform world titles at the 1982 I\' World Swimming Championships. 

• 
Alpine skier Phil Mahre. :\taqre, 25, of Yakima, Wash., won his second consecutive overall World Cup title in 1982, and collected three additional World Cup cham­pionships last year. He won the sil­vet medal in the slalom at the 1980 Winter Olympics at Lake Placid, NY 

•Swimmer 
Mary T. Meagher. Meagher, 18, of Louisville, Ky., has dominated the women's butterfly events since 1979 and holds the world records for the 100-and 200­yard butterfly. 

•synchronized 
swimmer Tracie Ruiz. Ruiz, 19, of Bothe!~ Wash., won the solo and duet events at the IV World Swimming Champion­ships. She won titles at the AlAW na­


tionab. the \loscow lnvitationab and the L.S. Svnchronized Swim· ming Championships. 
•Runner 
Alberto Salazar. Salazar, 25, ofEugene, Ore., holds the record for the Boston :\larathon and placed first in the l:.S. Cross Country Trials and won the silver medal at the World Cross Country Champion­ships in Rome. 

•Equestrian 
Melanie Smith. Smith, 32, of Stonington, Conn., has been named top woman rider for three consecutive years by the Federation Equestre lnternationale. She is the first rider to sweep the In­ternational jumping Derby, the American • Gold Cup and the American Invitational. 

•Runner 
Mary Oecker Tabb. Tabb, 24, of Eugene, Ore., broke seven world records and 1 0 American records in 1982, running distances ranging from one mile to 


I0,000 meters. In a 4 1-day period beginning June 5, she set three world and six American records. 

NFL Playoffs 
Division rivals tangle 
ByBRUCELOWITI 
AssociatedPress 
It may be stretching geography a bit to include Dallas, but, for the first time, four eastern teams will be competing for the National Football League's two conference champion· ships. 
On seven other occasions, two teams from the same division have played in the conferen~itle game, most recently in 1980, when Philadelphia and Dallas (East) sought the National Conference crown and Oakland and San Diego (West) vied for the American Con­ference championship. 
Now it's Dallas at Washington .in the NFC East and the New York Jets at Miami in the AFC East. 
"Two teams from the AFC East ... It should be some kind of battle," Miami Coach Don Shula said after the Dolphins routed San Diego 34­13 Sunday. "We all have a great deal ofrespect for theJets. We didn't beat them for four years (seven victories and a tie in that span), so we know what they are capable of doing to us." 
But they did beat the Jets twice during the regular season, 45-28 in the season-opener when quarter­bas_k David Woodley caught a touch· 
• • • Yawns 
continuedfrom page 12 
hopefully it'll be a better game. We'll be older and more experienced ­andJohn Paxson will be gone." 
IRISH ITEMS: The 40 points by 
Lafayette was the lowest output by 
any team in the history of the ACC, 
breaking the record of 42 set in 
1977 by -yep, you guessed it ­
Lafayette. The Leopards lost that 
game 76-42 ...Bucknell, 4-8, visits 
the ACC tomorrow night. 
down pass, and 20-19 when Don Strock relieved Woodley and spurred the Dolphins into position for Uwe von Schamann's game­winning, 47-yard field goal in the final seconds. 
"The Jets have always been tough on us," said Woodley. "We've been doing some good things against them this season, and we'll need to continue." 
If the Dolphins can beat the Jets, they'll be the seventh team in NFL history to win three games from an opponent in the same season and the first since 1964, when the Buffalo Bills defeated San Diego 30-3 and 27-24 in the regular season and 20-7 in the American Football League title game. All AFL records became part of the NFL book in the merger. 
Dallas has bea!en the Redskins in 27 of 45 meetings, including the last six in a row. The teams have met on­ly once in the playoffs, the 'Skins demolishing Dallas 26-3 in the 1972 NFC title game. Washington then lost to Miami in the Super Bowl. 
In their most recent meeting, during the strike-shortened season, Dallas roughed up the Redskins 24­10, sacking joe Theismann seven times and limitingJohn Riggins to 26 yards. It was Washington's only loss in nine games. 
Job Brief 
Ihe='lbser.Yet needs layout people. ··No experience necessary. 
• 
Late night job. 

• 
Paid position ifyou,re responsible. 


Leaveyour name and phone number at The Observer office on 3rdfloorLaFortune. 

john Paxson, seen here passing off to a teammate, was the main man for the Irish once again. The all-American guard led the team in points, rebounds, assists, and steals -among other things -in the 51-40 win over Lafayette. For more details, see Sam Sherrill's storv on the backpage. (Photo~)' Tom White) . 

•
IS coming
• 

WOMAN'S .-· SPIRITUALITY 
JAN. 28-30 RETREAT 
-WITH TERESA GODWIN PHELPS AND MARY ANN ROEMER 
FOR: Graduate Students, Staff 
$8.00 fee, Friday Evening to Sunday noon at a lake Michigan cabin. 
Sign up at Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
LIMITED REGISTRATION 
an 
CC!Il}PUS
m1nastry 
Tuesday,January 18, 1983-page 10 
The Observer 


Late Kentucky rally 
Turpin bails out Wildcats 
11:\l\,( d <l:\. "'' (.\I') -\lt'h 111 I ht· \ 1cton hoo,tnl Kt·ntuck\ to lurpin 'corn! ,-olfll, 2.~ point' 111 12·.~ o\nall and 1-2 in the ~EC. tht· 'l'l'ond h;dl la't 111ght a' :\o. I I !·lorida fell to 9--and 2-.~. Kelllul'k\ Clllll' from behind to Dirk \linnididd added 1.~ point.' ddeat l·londa -11-(d 111 a ~outhea.,t-lor Kentuck\. while Charle' llurt nn <.onll"rt·nt'l' h;t,keth;dl ganll' 't·ornl 12 and lkrnck I lord 'corn! 
l'urpin had lour pomt' during an Ill. I 1-11 'conng runt hat gan· Ken tuck\ 1-'lorida·, ( :lurlt·, ( .riftin. who'e .1 (,I <;(,lead wuh <;:112 remaining. pn·,·iou' 'e;"on high had ht·en 12 
IIi' 'Pill!ling JUIIlp 'hot with <•·I H point'. poured in 25 poinh. int'iud· to go ga\l' 1-.t·ntut J.., .1 :;-.:;c, lead ing 1(, in the tir't hall. a' the (,;uor' "nd the \\'tldcth. who hat! In! ju't mountnl a -~--:1 I halftime kad. WitT pre\tou'h, lll'\'l'r traill'd again. _l{onnil' \\'illiams scored I H points 
..."···;·~··~~~~·~··~~~~~~~~~·;~:·:~·Y·O·~·;;~~·····l 
BECOME A NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS OR ALUMNA! 
Meet the Alumni Board of Directors at the Hall Visitation Program and see what's in store for you after graduation: 
Thursday, Jan. 20 9:00pm 
The following halls will host Board members: 
Flanner  Alumni  
Breen-Phillips  Morrissey  
Zahm  Walsh  

l.tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNIIIIIIIHH.......IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllllllllllltiiiiiHII•tll 
h>r  till'  (oator'  and  Eugc:ne  
\kDowdl addnl 12.  
Florida dominated  the  fir'I  half  

with power inside and (irittln'' long­range 'hoot ing. <iriftin opened the game with a 'hot from the: deep ~.:or­IH:r and \X'illiam' li>llowt:d with two ba,kt:t' in,ide a' the (iawrs jumped to a().() lead. 
<iritlin hit another 'hot to start a CHI run that ga\'e Florida it' l<>ngt:st lead of the half. 50·25. with -1:2H rt·maining in the period. 
continuedji'Om page 12 
more Louis Carnc:sale of (ioleta, Cal. ~.:apturnllifth at I ';H. 
Looking past the: nc:xt ~.:ouple of week' to their California trip in early Fc:hruaf\. the: lri'h hopt· to gc:i ha~o:k a numht·r of wrestler' shdved by in· jllJ! 
Doug ~kinner. who got oil to a 4uick 'tart ;u I:;o poumb. 'hould he back from arthro,copi~.: 'urgl·n 
within a wn·k. \lt:anwhilt-. ,--. pound lreshman.fell~hupe 11 ill go in lor the H'f\ -,ame operation toda1 
conlinuedfiYI/11 page /.! 
For Bowit-, getting a :\iotre Dame 
nlucnion mav he the dt:l:iding fa~:­
tor. 
":\t this point. graduating from 
here and getting a "<otrt: Dame: de­
grt·e is more important." ht: said. 
But Parsons was not very 4uick to 
agree. 
"I personall~· don't know what I'd 
do," he stated. "I want to graduate 
from ht:re, hut that may not ht: the 
ht:st thing ti>r mt:." 
If the juni<)rs art: in the worst situation. and the: freshmen art: faced with many decisions, it is the senior da!<.~ that is the lt:ast affe~o:tt:d. 
Yet they are not taking the news lightly, t:itht:r. 
''I'm not really involved," said goalie Boh .\kNamara. "But. I still really ~:are about the program. 
"It's a weird ft:t:ling ~ kind of in· humane to just dump a program out 
SPRING SERVICE RECRUITING EVENT 
SERVICE FESTIVAL 
1esday, January 18, 1983 
6:30-8:30 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
An opportunity to meet student groups who serve and commumty organizations who need volunteers' ALL STUDENTS INVITED' 
. Grapplers 
It will he at least two morr weeks hd(Jre Irish co-captain John Car­nesalc: ( (;ult:ta, Cal.) comes ha~o:k from hand and ha~.:k problems. Car· nt·sale hopt:s to return in time to make the California trip and visit h1s formc:r stomping grounds. 
Ik,pitt: all tht: injurit:~. the Irish will he in good ~hape tonight when thn· fa~o:t: a tirst time opponent in D.t; ton and a traditional foe in Depauw Bruno i!<. conlident that tht: lnsh "ill chalk up two mun: in tht: · win ~.:olumn. 
• • • Hockey 
tht· window .. 
\k~amara·~ point is tht· most 
unif~ ing factor among the: playel'~­
l\o matter what the age. the playc:rs 
feel that the: athlt:tic administration 
is li>rgetting something. 
"They don't know how many 
people thc:y are going to affect." 
:'\'k:'liamara points out. 
"I don't think they (tht: ad· ministration) are taking the tht: players' futures into consideration," Bianchi added. "They are forgetting that thc:y art: putting the freshmen and sophomores into tough posi­tions." 
The Notre Dame hockey players have strong reactions to the news that their program may bt: ter· minatt:d. 
But for tht: next two weeks their fate is out of their hands, and they must try not to dwell on it. 
"Obviously we think about it," commented Regan. "But we must go out there and play anyway and do our best. All we can do is just see what happens." 


ATTENTION COLLEGE STUDENTS 
You may be eligible for .a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship. The scholarship includes full tuition, lab expenses, incidental fees, a reimbursement for textbooks, and $100 a month tax free. How do you qualify? You must have at least two years of graduate or undergraduate work remain­ing, and be willing to serve your nation at least four years as an Air Force officer. Scholarships are available to students who can qualify for pilot, navigator, or missile training, and to those who are majoring in selected technical and nontechnical academic disciplines, in certain scientific areas, in undergraduate nursing, or selected premedical degree areas. Non-scholarship students enrolled in the Air Force ROTC two-year program also receive the $100 monthly tax-free allowance just like the scholarship students. Find out today about a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship and about the Air Force way of life. Your Air Force ROTC counselor has the details. 

Contact Capt. Gomez, (219) 239·6635, about AFROTC at Notre Dame. 35 years on campus! 
HOTC 
Gateway to a great way ollile. 

Bowie 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! Omega Productions, Inc. is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type of music for any type of event. Parties are our specialty. Custom music p:-ogramming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 

Ihe~rver========================= 
~~4()l~~=============================T=ue=s=·d=a=y,=J=an=u=MV==·=l=8='=19=8=3====pa=g=e=l::l
Bloom County
,..:.._______, 
I JVST Na.V A 

''[ARI-Y TOV'AY. £Jrrr£ H~F' 
IWO-YEAR-OW 10[)[) BU\TT 

D... BO~S . U5Tf-N 
STRUCK MRS. SIMMON'S' 
DRU... 
CAT IN 111£. f'POWC£ 'JE.C noN OF wt. 'iXJWI®WN FOO!;\'v\ART. '' 
10 fH/5: 
\ 


Simon Jeb Cashin 
..THf_ !fEST !XJN'T KNOW /iOW ro
How CRN YOU

HOW 11fiNY JJ/INCt.
f/NGELS Cf/N 
JUST fAY "f!Gfi­

JOliN.? 
£/16Y. ..

OflNC£ QV 
T£EN" TO ONE

Til£ HE!IO{)F 
Of tHE t105T I 

fJ 'P!tl? 
Ff!ffltfif'./G (
PHILOSOPH/Crt£ 
I 
(ff/tST!oNS ?.'.7 \ I 

Photius
Fate 
_ 
I.TS R\0\C.ULOU.S FOK 1'1~
ISN'T ANYON( 
AT LEP.ST THIS CoMIC.
To TEACH A COUR.S( 
THINK OF IT THIS

INrER£Sff'D IN 
STRIP WILL HAV£ A
FOR ONLY fHI\£'£'
SC.HOLAS fl C. M£ 
WAY PROFESSOR ...

STUD~NTS. 
L/TTL£ CLASS IN IT
ANYMDR£? 
\ 
\ 

ACROSS 27 "-a i~!ly 55 Chief 21 Delhi robe 1 One of the good... Vedic god 24 Fender 3 Bs 30 Bakery 57 Sound mishap 5 Greek item acronym 25 Took notice letters 32 Orderly 59 Barrel 27 Reddy of 
The Daily Crossword 
10 Baby's bed plan organ song 14 Flaxen hue 34 He needs 64 Grotto 28 Zola 15 Nautical sunglasses 65 Indigo 29 Faction 
term 37 Borne by 66 Funny Fudd 31 Bookkeep· 16 Singer the wind 67 Amerindians ing entry 
Cantrell 38 Impel 68 Carry on 33 Deception 17 Hand: pref. 39 Potato 69 They color 34 Fish 18 Wilder· 41 Prehistoric cloth 35 One of five 
Radner film chisel 70 Mailed 36 Brief 20 Ships' 42 Seed covers summary 
backbones 44 Trivial DOWN 38 N.H. river 22 Frozen 46 Deep valley 1 Call's 40 -avis 23 Mythical 48 "-Bulbs" companion 43 Tufts or 
maidens 49 Mel of 2 Yearned Bono in trees baseball (for) 45 Sweet 26 Sandra or 50 Devotee 3 Newscaster potatoes Ruby 52 Overindulge of olden 47 Poked 
days gently
Monday's Solution 

4 Uproar 51 Indeed 5 Scornful 53 Maternally
sw 
A B R A N C L A S T .F 

exclamation related
y AL E E V E E E A .L
A S 

6 A Gabor 54 Glossy
S I T Y S T A T E u N \JVIEIR 

7 Sharp bird
TTO.
H A r• E T E S 0 

taste 55 Run in neu· 
EG. ROIU 
E­
-AL 

8 Invited tral gear 
M E N T C A R E D-0 S T A T E D E P A RIT 

9 Designs 56 Weapon, to A C E S ..N 0 I S Y'llrA NT E 10 Dressed Napoleon B I 
G LIE.N 
OIW 

AN-MD US E 11 Competed 58 Remainder S T A T EIO 
N. 
DIE 
F T H E U N I 

0 N in a heat !i9 "Tum left" 1-1 
NIN s•

E A SE-12 Sign on the 60 Actress
P U B A S 
.ARM 
s-R 
e• 

dotted line Merkel
V E S T A T E T H E B E E H I 

13 "The Green -61 Tractor·
L A N H 0 N E .G A V E L •e 

Tree" trailer
S H E N S .A
E y E R •o ME

1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, lAc. 
19 Quilt 62 -Alte
1118/83

All Rights Reserved 1/18/83 section 63 '82 and '83 
S.U. Service Commission 
Original 

FREE UNIVERSITY 
Movie Poster Sale 
When? Tues. Jan 18 
Movie 

Sign ap for classes )an. 18 & 19
Wed. Jan 19 Thurs. Jan 20 
from 6-9 pm in LaFortane Ballroom 
What time? 10-5 Where? LaFortune Lobby 
Posters 

COME )Oitt TttE FUtt! 
Campus · 

•2 p.m.-Walking Tour of Memorial library, Meet in Concourse 
•-t:.">O p.m. -Lecture, "The Structure and Fum:­tion of Genes and Chromosomes in Protozoa," Prof Davit! M. Prescort. liniversit,· of Colorado. Galnn Life Science Auditorium 
•7:.30 
p.m. -Wrestling, ND v~. L'niversitv of Davton anti DePaul. ACC 

•7:.30 
p.m. -Meeting of the Faculty Senate, CCE 

•H: 
1')p.m. -Guest Piano Recital, :\\arvin Imck· enstaft, Annenherg Auditorium 


6:00p.m. 16 :\cwsCc:omer 16 28 :\ewswatch 2H 34 .L!-1 Contact 
6:30p.m. 16 "'BC "'ightly "'"w~ 22 CBS !\lew' 28 ABC World Nc:ow' Tonight 3'1 \laking It Count 
'7:0t..lp.m. h.l \i.\.'fi 22 i.avernc:o & Shirk,· 28 jokc:or's Wild 34 Tht: :\lac"'dlll.t:hrn Rt:port 
7:30 16 Allin Thc:o Family 22 Familv feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 ~trai!(ht Talk 
8:00p.m. 16 fatht:r :\lurph,· 22 \\ alt Disnt·) 28 Happv Day' 3'1 :\o\'a 
8:30p.m. 28 Laverne and Shirk,· 
9:00p.m. 16 Ga\'ilan 22 CB~ Tuesday :'~light :'>lode 28 Three's Company 34 :\IYSTERY' 
9:30 I m. 28 9 To 5 
10:00 p.m. 16 St. El'ewhert· 28 Bart to Hart 
11 p.m. 16 "iewsCenter 1(l 22 22 Eyt:\\·itnes.' '\:t·v.·~ 28 :\ewswatch 2H 3'1 Indiana Lawmaker' 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy & :\lc:\lillan & Wife 28 ABC 'oiews Nightline 
The Far Side 
"I just don't like it, AI ... Whenever Silly goe~ outside, the new neighbors seem compelled to watch every little thing he does." 

Tuesday,January 18, 1983-page 12
~norts 
About hockey mess 

Players voice their opinions 
ByJANE HEALEY ly affected by the decision will be Notre Dame degree." 
Sports Writer the younger players on the team -Most of the freshmen and sopho­the freshmen and sophomores. Ap­mores are glad that they came to The final decision on the future of propriately, they have some strong Notrt: Dame, but their college hock­the Notre Dame hockey program ey careers also are important to
reactions. will be announced within the next them.
"I think most of the younger guys two weeks. feel a great sense of disappoint­"I can't say I haven't enjoyed it 
Until then, the hocKey players ment," said sophomore Brent Chap­here," Regan commented. "I'm must keep practicing and playing, man. "We feel as if we weren't lucky I got the chance to play here, and trying to put the situation out of treated very fairly." but the decisions can't be avoided." 
their minds. Freshman Mark Benning agrees. Bianchi added an opinion on his 
"We just have to overcome all that "You come here and you are future. is happening," said senior Kirt Bjork. promised four years of hockey," he "It's not the attraction of profes­"We simply have to go out and play commented. "And then this all hap­sional hockey," he said. "I just love hockey." pens, and things don't look so playing hockey, and if I can't play 
But of course, that is easier said promising any more." here I don't know what I'll do." than done. Besides the disappointment, there Th-ere are only two juniors on the "This is a very complicated mat· is also a sense of loss evident in the Irish hockey team -Adam Parsons ter," said Coach Lefty Smith. "There players. and joe Bo-wie -and both are in 
are many mixed feelings floating "It'~ kind of hard to swallow," rather difficult positions. They only around the locker room." freshman Steve Bianchi said. have one year of college eligibility Each class of players on the team "There's a lot ofemptiness because I left, and only one year before ahey
Freshman defenseman Mark Benning, shown 
is in a different position and, thus, would their Notre Dame
just started liking this place." get
here in action earlier this season, and his 
each has a variety ofopinions on the Benning's first reaction was degrees.
teammates have been affected more deeply than 
subject. similar to that of Bianchi. If the program were to be 
most by the financial problems of the hockey 
The group ofplayers most direct· "I just don't feel too good right eliminated, the juniors would have a 
program. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
now," Benning said. ''I'm feeling rough decision ahead of them. kind oflow." "We're in the worst siuation out of "Cheated" was another word that everyone," said Parsons. ''I'm kind of
Win a yawner 
many of the younger players used in angry about it all." describing their feelings. There is a certain frustration in· Benning said that he "definitely herem in the opinions ofthe juniors.
Irish beat letdown, Lafayette 
felt cheated," while fellow freshman "If the program goes, I could go john Devoe went even further. play hockey at another university for By SAM SHERRILL around jumper, and the Irish took row, shooting 4-for-5 from the floor, ''I'm pretty mad actually," Devoe one year," commented Bowie. "But, 
Sports Writer the lead for good at 22-21 on junior and Ken Barlow was perfect in four 
said. "Hockey is a big part of my life what would I do after that?" 
Tom Sluby's tip-in of a Ron Rowan field goal attempts in his 40 minutes. 
and now I'm faced with all kinds of Going into last night's game miss with 4:16 to go in the half. Losing coach Will Rackley was 
decisions about my future again." see HOCKEY, page 10
against Lafayette, the Notre Dame Notre Dame completed a 10-2 tear gracious in defeat after the game. 
The decisions Devoe refers to 
basketball team was just looking to to lead 28-23 at the halftime buzzer. "Notre Dame is just too powerful 
would result if the athletic : ad­
avoid a letdown after Saturday's big In the second half, it was Notre to get too far behind," he said. "They 
ministration decides in th.e next two
win at Marquette. Avoid it they did, Dame's turn to come out fast. The showed a lot of discipline on 
weeks that the hockey program can­
but the result was nothing to get Irish dominated the first 15 minutes defense. I felt that if we held Notre 
U'restlers

not be saved.
excited about, as the Irish yawned of the second half, outscoring the Dame under 60 points, that we 
These decisions, ofcourse, would 
their way past the Leopards, 51-40. Leopards 21-8 over that period. could beat them. Our team never 
not be easy. Bianchi explains the al­entertazn• 
With road games at Marquette last Lafayette was very patient on of­quits; we were down nine to Navy 
ternatives.
weekend and Maryland this fense, holding the ball for the first with 39 seconds to go and won by 
"You have to consider giving up
weekend, you can understand the 2:30 of the half before shooting, but three -and had the ball at the end 
Dayton

something you've done for 15 or 16 
team's looking past mid-week op­the Leopards just couldn't find the of the game. 
years ofyour life," he said. "But, youponents like Lafayette and Bucknell. range. The Irish put the game away "We're coming back next year, so 
also have to think about getting a
But last night's surprisingly close at this point, scoring the first eight 
ByJEFF BLUMB

result came not so much from poor points of the half, four coming from see YAWNS, page 9 
Sports Writer 

play by Notre Dame, but inspired freshman joe Price. 
play by the Leopards at the start and Lafayette finally scored a bucket 
Hoping to maintain their un­

finish ofthe game. with 13:56 to go in the game, ending 
defeated mark at home this year, the

Lafavetre came out of the blocks a drought of their own that lasted 
Notre Dame wrestlers square off

fast, st~ying close to the Irish thanks 7:23. By then, however, the game 
with Dayton and Depauw tonight at

to a tenacious press and a patient of­was all but over -or so it seemed. 
8:30 in the ACC Pit. 

fense that resulted in a number of The Irish were up by 18 points, 
The University of Dayton is a

baskets from close range. The Irish 49-31, with less than four minutes to 
quantity that is rather unknown to

countered with some good defense go. But then, just as Marquette had 
Irish coach Brother joseph Bruno,

of their own and six early points done on Saturday, Notre Dame 
C.S.C., because the Flyers have never

apiece from seniorsjohn Paxson and relaxed, failing to score again the 
tangled with the Irish. However,

Tim Andree. rest of the game except for a couple 
Bruno is not totally in the dark about

But Notre Dame went cold after of Barlow free throws with no time 
his Ohio opponents.

that, going scoreless over the next left (and the scoreboard already 
"They have a fairly young

4:40. Luckily for them, the defense turned off). The Leopards got their 
program," he says, "but the team is

held Lafayette to only four points second wind, playing good defense 
the most mature of the three at the

over that span. Freshman Ken Bar­and running off nine in a row (seven 
triangular, due to the fact that they

low broke the drought with a turn-from the free throw line). to clo~e 
have many juniors and seniors."
the final margin to 11. 
Dayton's coach is in only his
All in all, it was a rather bland ef­

Yesterday's Results second year at the helm, but while
fort. The highlight of the night was

Notre Dame 51, Lafayette 40 
he is a newcomer, Depauw's coach 

Lafayette (40) the crowd, which showed some 
is somethingofan institution. In fact, 

R p
M FG·A FT-A F teamwork of their own, razzing the 
he lhas seen four Irish wrestling

Bennett 38 4-10 4-6 5 1 12 Lafayette players in perfect unison. 
Goetz 13 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 coaches in his twenty-odd years at
After the game, Coach Digger Phelps

Coalmon 21 1-2 2-2 6 4 4 
Depauw.

Morse 38 1-5 0-0 0 2 2 held one of his shortest press con­
Interestingly enough, all three

Duckett 36 1-4 1-2 3 4 3 ferences in recent memory. 
Bnghtful 30 5-7 3-4 2 0 13 teams have filled all of their weights
"Lafayette is really well-coached,"

D Bennett 8 1-1 2-2 0 0 4 for wnight. This will be the first
Phelps said. "They played good

Klinger 1-3 0-0 1 2 2
9 home meet this year for Notre Dame 
Furey 7 0-0 0-0 1 2 0 defense tonight. At halftime, we 
in which it will not win a number of

200 14-32 12-16 19 15 40 made some adjustments and got 
FG Pet .438 FT Pet 750 Team matches by forfeit. 
more aggressive. We got on the 

rebounds -1 Turnovers -12 Assists -5 Irish wrestlers certainly did not
boards at the start ofthe second half.

(Duckett 5) Techmcals ·Lafayette bench 
win any matches by forfeit this 

Notre Dame (51) "Then we thought the game was 
weekend at the tough Midwest Clas­

R p Varner 18 0-2 0-0 2 0 sic Invitational in Indianapolis, but M FG-A FT-A F over and Lafayette didn't. Our big 
lead really saved us. I don't know 

Andree 16 4-5 0-1 1 0 8 several wrestlers needed no help to
what our players were thinking. For

Barlow 40 4-4 4-5 1 2 12 
place highly.

Paxson 40 7-13 5-6 5 2 19 the first 1 5 minutes of the second 
Senior Mark Fisher, probably the

Price 33 3-7 0-2 1 1 6 half, defensively, we were awesome. 
Sluby 1-2 0-0 1 most experienced wrestler on the
22 3 2 We played 15 minutes of good ball,
Rowan 5 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 Notre Dame squad, was impressive
and five minutes with a lack ofinten­
1-2 3

Dolan 24 2-2 4 4 in grabbing third place at 126. 
Buchanan 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 sity." 
Last year's wins leader, sopho­

200 20-36 11-16 14 14 51 Leading the way for the Irish, once 
FG Pet 556. FT Pet 688 Team more Phil Baty, also scored high in 
again, was Paxson, who turned in 19 

rebounds -4. Turnovers -7 ASSIStS -7 the tournament wars last Saturday,
points, five rebounds, three assists

(Paxson 3). Techmcals-None 
Halft1me-Notre Dame 28. Lafayette 23 Of-and three steals (all team highs) in ficials-Tom Rucker, Terry Kuhl, Ron Wm1er going the full 40 minutes. Andree 
see GRAPPLERS, page 10

(aiiB1gTe'1) A-11,008 
turned in his second solid game in a 






