• 
VOL. XVII, NO. II I the independent "tudnll nl·w.,paper '\l'ning notre dame and "aint man··., MONDAY, MARCH 7, I983 
Tennessee Williams -page 6 

Conservatives sweep West German elections 
BONN, West Germany (AP) ­Chancellor Helmut Kohl's con· servative coalition, pledged to deploy NATO nuclear missiles in Western Europe, swept to a solid victory in yesterday's parliamentary elections. 

The executive secretary of Hans­jochen Vogel's opposition Social Democrats, Peter Glotz, conceded less than an hour after the polls closed, saying his party "did not reach its goal." 
Horst Emke, deputy chairman of the party's parliamentary caucus, said: "We have to congratulate the CDU for a clear election victory." 
The main domestic issue was the economy, gripped by recession and high unemployment, but interna­tional attention focused on the debate over deployment of U.S.­made nuclear missiles in West Ger­many and other NATO countries. 
Kohl and his allies support NATO's decision to deploy 572 medium-range cruise and Pershing 2 missiles in Western Europe later this year -204 of them in West Ger­many -unless an arms-control agreement is reached with the Soviet Union that includes a reduc­tion ofthe SS-20 missiles targeted on NATO nations. 

Vogel wants the United States to make a greater effort toward an agreement with the Soviets, and said that ifhe had been elected, he would deploy the missiles only under "extreme circumstances." He did not renounce the missiles or the Western alliance. 
Minutes after the polls closed, the ARD network said its projections showed Kohl's Christian Democratic t.:nion with "18 percent of the vote in balloting for the Bun­destag, the lower house of Parlia­ment that elects the chancellor. 
Kohl's coalition partners, the Free Democrats, were polling 6. 5 per­cent in the projection, which would give the center-right coalition a clear majority in the new Bundestag, which is expected to have 496 seats. 
The projection gave Vogel's Social Democrats 39.5 percent and the anti-nuclear, an ti-NA TO Greens Party 5. 5 percent. Ifthat proves cor­rect, the Greens would enter the Bundestag for the first time. 
Under the West German system, parties must win at least 5 percent of the vote to gain seats in the Bundes­tag. 
The preliminary results represented a sharp drop for the So­cial Democrats, who won 42.9 per­cent of the vote in 1980 under Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. 
With so much at stake, both the United States and the Soviet Union showed intense interest in the cam­paign. Vice President George Bush visited West Germany in january, and U.S. officials warned that a Vogel victory could strain German-U.S. relations. 
Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko also visited Bonn in january and warned of grave im­plications for peace in Europe if NATO went ahead with the missile deployment. 

'Violates convictions' 


Professors protest resolution 
By CECILIA LUCERO 
StaffReporter 
Nine members of Notre Dame's philosophy department recently signed a letter to the editor of an American Philosophical Association ( APA) publication to protest an APA resolution, "the spirit of which vi­olates personal and religious convic­tions" of some members, according to Assistant Professor Alfred Fred­doso. 
The APA resolution, passed in April, 1982 by the APA Western Division, states "The passage of any and all legislation which would specify when human life begins" is an "improper exercise of Congres­sional power." The legislation refers to the Helms bill and similar proposals by Congress. 
The letter, drafted by Freddoso and directed to the Proceedings and Addresses publication of the APA2 expressed the personal opinions of the nine department members. 
Some reasons behind the resolu­tion, outlined in the APA Western Division's mail ballot, include the impropriety of legislation in which Congress takes action on a philosophical issue and the inap­propriateness of a law that legislates morality. 
Assistant Professor Jorge Garcia, who signed the letter, said that the APA did not provide "good enough reasons to have passed this resolu­tion." 
"It's an unnecessary resolution that winds up putting many of us who are members of the APA in a very awkward and uncomfortable position," said Garcia. "We wanted to go on record as repudiating the APA's decision," he added, in ex­plaining the purpose of the letter. 
According to Garcia, the APA's ac­tivities as a professional group of philosophers include sponsoring conventions and conducting ad­vance philosophical research. He stressed that the important function of the APA is to lobby for the inter­ests ofphilosophers as professionals. 
Garcia said, however, that it is "an improper exercise of APA jurisdic­tion to take positions on philosophi­cal issues ofthe controversial sort as a group." 
"Within the APA, there has been anongoing debate about whether or not it's even appropriate for the or­ganization -as an organization ­to take a stand on various controver­sial political and social issues. What we're doing (in the letter) is saying that the APA has no business demanding that Congress refuse to pass legislation," according to Fred­doso. 
"It would not be wholly un­reasonable to read the resolution as a general statement ofopposition to any sort ofanti-abortion legislation," the letter reads. According to Fred­doso, the APA resolution places the "organizational stamp of approval" on opposition of anti-abortion proposals. "This raises questions for us, especially on an issue like abor­tion, who might disagree with the majority stance (in the APA). The 


Cathy Shander (right) helps with sign-ups for Bookstore Xll, the World's Largest Basketball Tournament, in the Great Hall ofO'Shaughnessy 
Visits Romero's tomb 
Pope leads chant in El Salvador 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Pope John Paul II yesterday led hundreds of thousands of people in war-torn El Salvador in the chant, "We want peace!" and made an emo­tional appeal for an end to Central Amqican warfare that "has sown the land with graves." 
As he spoke, some 2,000 troopers 
obvious question is, as a minority, are our rights being respected?" commented Freddoso. 
"Secondly," said Freddoso, "the its anonymity is a little bit disturb­ing, too. One can just send one's baf­lot in. You don't have to sign your name to your opinion. So, as it were, you can hide behind your organiza­tion." 
and policemen armed with rifles and machine guns and stationed every 10 yards in some places stood guard. Overhead, military helicopters maintained constant patrols. 
There were no reports of bat­tlefield action in the country, locked for the past 40 months in civil war. Leftist guerrillas had called a one­day truce for the pope's visit, and the Defense Ministry said its forces would not initiate any combat 
But both left and right had warned ofdeath plots against the pontiff, and the government deployed men from the army, national guard, national police and treasury police to protect John Paul -who has survived two ·assassination attempts. 
After landing at a security-ringed air force base in his special Alitalia DC-1 0, the pope unexpectedly departed from his schedule, which had called for him to go straight to a plaza in the capital. 



Saint Mary's student assaulted near Grotto 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary•'s Executive Editor 
A Saint Mary's student was assaulted near the Notre Dame Grotto 
yesterday at approximately I :30 a.m. The victim, a McCandless freshman, escaped unharmed. The suspect was described as 5 foot, 7 inches to 5 foot, 8 inches in 
height. No other description was available. . 
According to Karen Heisler, Saint Mary's public relations officer, the student was walking alone from Flanner Hall to the Grotto shuttle stop. A man grabbed her by the hair from behind and pulled her to the ground. 
The victim struggled with the assailant, freed herself and fled to the shuttle stop. The assailant ran in the opposite direction, accord­ing to a report given to Heisler. 
The victim walked to Saint Mary's with two friends she encoun­tered at the shuttle stop. 
The students told a McCandless R.A. about the assault when they reached the hall. Saint Mary's Security was notified at approximately 2 a.m. and Notre Dame Security immediately afterward. 
Notre Dame Security Director Glenn Terry was unavailable for comment on the incident. A report on the incident is scheduled to be released today. 
Instead, John Paul went to the tomb of Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero -revered since he was shot down in 1980 by a right-wing assassin as he celebrated Mass. The tomb is in Metropolitan Cathedral, which had been given a fresh coat of stucco to hide its bullet scars. 
It was not clear whether Sal­vadoran authorities had suggested the change to prevent potentially uncontrollable crowds at the cat­hedral, but John Paul's arrival there took most people by surprise, and the cathedral doors were locked. 
After the doors were opened, the pontiff walked into the cathedral ac­companied only by an aide and a few Salvadoran clergymen. He knelt for three minutes in front of a shrine to the Virgin Mary and then stood in front of the concrete tomb. 
An estimated 1 million people lined the motorcade route and at­tended the outdoor Mass. 
"From your breasts and throats there will surge forth a clamor of hope: We want peace!" The pope proclaimed at the Mass. The phrase immediately began to surge through the crowd, and men and women, some crying, chanted back, "We want peace! We want peace!" 
"How many homes have been destroyed! How many refugees and 
exiles!  How  many  orphaned  
children!"  The  pope  exclaimed  
during his homi.ly.  

From the moment he kissed the groun t d ofthis country of4.8 million, John Paul stressed that it was neither too late nor too dishonorable to stop the war. 
"Each and every one in Central America, in this noble nation which bears the proud name of El Salvador (Spanish for the saviour) ... has the duty to act as an artisan of peace," the pope said. 
President Alvaro Magana told him at the airport that elections would be held by December, instead of 1984 as first announced. President Reagan had urged such a sp{:edup. 

-_________. 


---~------·----~----~------~~-------~~--------­


ews Brie/§ 

By Tht' Ohst'Tl'f'r and Tht' Associalt'd Prt'SS 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh 
will appear on ABC's "Nightline" tonight. Correspondent Richard Threllkeld will interview Hesburgh on religion and politics in Latin America. The show will be carried locally by ABC's Elkhart affiliate, WSJV Channel 28 at 11:30. ABC will use the new satellite uplink at the WNDU stations for the interview. -The Obseroer 
Saint Mary's student governmentcommis­
sioner applications are due in the Student Activities office today. The commissioner positions include: athletic, alumnae, development, election, Christian life, entertainment, secretary, treasurer, judicial, movies, speakers, social justice and traditional events. Students with questions about the positions should contact 1983-84 Student Body President Elaine Hocter at 284-5050. -The Observer 
Tumbleweed driven by winds gusting to 
hurricane force piled up 10 feet deep, blocking a highway near Rankin, Texas for seven hours and burying at least one car and stranding others. Highway department workers used shovels and a front-end loader to clear Texas 349 north of here Saturday while a dust storm reduced visability in the area to near zero. "I have never seen anything like this," said Department of Public Safety Trooper Richard Izatt "I think I've swallowed enough dust to last me 30 years." Gusts of40 mph were common in western Texas, the Nation­al Weather Service said. A burst of98-mph wind was recorded at the Davis Mountain Observatory. A I 0-foot wall ofweeds covered most of the highway about 16 miles north of here. One car was buried under 12 feet of tumbleweed. Izatt said he found several cars stranded at noon, when he reached the clogged stretch. Officials put up roadblocks to re-route traffic. :'vtarie Stamper said her car became snarled in the weeds a~ she drove from '"fidland to Rankin. -AP 
Comedian John Belushi had "an obsessive 
problem ofoverindulging," his widow says, but "The image ofhim as 
a party animal is incorrect." Judy Jacklin Belushi also said she feels 
her husband's drug-related death in a Hollywood bungalow caused 
many people to re-evaluate drug use at parties. Belushi was found 
dead March 5, l9H2, from an overdose ofdrugs. "I think John was a 
genuinely funny man, but ... when someone takes drugs like thai, 
there is something they are blocking," Mrs. Belushi said. "There was 
a point about five years ago when we finally realized thatJohn had an 
ohsessin: problem of overindulging." The Los Angeles Herald Ex­
aminer published an interview with her yesterday. On Thursday, 
the Los Angeles County grand jury is to hold what is expected to be 
its t1nal hearing into l:lelushi'~ death. Several of Belushi's friends, 
especially actor Dan Aykroyd. tried to steer him away from heavy 
partying, :'VIrs. Belushi said. -AP 
A Polish airline mechanic tled to Canada by 
hiding in the freezing baggage compartment of a Polish jet for 14 hours. He said he left his homeland because the government tried to blackmail him into signing a loyalty oath. Speaking through an inter­preter, Ryszard Kuzminski said in an interview Saturday that the Communist government told him he would lose his job within a month if he did not sign a document pledging his allegiance to the military regime. Kuzminski arrived dirty, tired, cold and hungry Friday at Montreal's Mirabel International Airport. He jumped 10 feet off the plane to the ground and ran to approaching Royal Canadian Mounted Police to seek asylum. "l was afraid LOT (Poland's national airline) employees would take me and force me to go back to Warsaw," he said. Kuzminski, 33, said he was forced to leave behind his 33-year-old wife and 14-year-old son. They did not know of his escape plan, "But I told them a few weeks ago that l might just leave sometime," he said. -AP 
A man and two teen-agerswere arrested after a 
raid on an alleged "bomb factory," Anaheim, Calif. police say. Sgt. Larry Kurtz said 20 explosive devices and more than 200 pounds of bomb chemicals were taken when police rajded the trailer ofRobert Cole Jr., 34. "We don't doubt Cole was selling bombs to kids," Detective Joe Kars said. The Friday night raid culminated a two­week investigation after a bomb was used to blow up a telephone junction box, Kurtz said. Cole and neighbor John Walter Frost, 18, were booked and jailed on a variety ofcharges. An unidentified 16­year-old boy was turned over to juvenile authorities. Confiscated bombs were detonated harmlessly by Orange County deputies, Kurtz said. -AP 
Two hard-working retarded men who 
saved to buy bicycles only to have them stolen on the street in Long Beach, Calif. are back on two wheels again. "I saw their story in the paper, and it hit me," Warren Fox, a pipe salesman, said Friday as he presented them new bikes at a Long Beach bicycle shop. "I've never done anything like this before, but it feels wonderful." Fox said he did it because his three sons have had their own bikes stolen. Andy Norsworthy, 31, and Danny Mendez, 26, who live at the Ennoble Center for retarded adults in Signal Hill, had their unlocked bikes snatched while they stopped for a meal at a hamburger stand. Mike Cutshaw, director of the home, said dozens of offers of help and money poured in after a newspaper article about the theft. "It cer­tainly has been heartwarming," Cutshaw said. "Now alii have to do is get back to everyone and let them know what's happened, and see if they want their donations returned or put in some kind ofa fund for someone who needs a bike." -AP 
Considerable cloudinessand mild today with a 60 percent chance for showers. The high will be in the upper 50s to near 60. Cloudy and cooler tonight with a 60 percent chance for light rain. The low will be around 40. Cloudy and cool tomorrow with.a chance for light rain. The high will be in upper 40s to near 50. 
-AP 
Monday, March 7, 1983 -page 2 

An American Monarchy? 
Americans have given Britain's Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip an enthusiastic and affectionate welcome during the royal couple's trip to the Western U.S., which ends today. 
Granted, there were protests of Britain's presence in Northern Ireland, but for the most part, Americans from San Diego to Yosemite National Park rolled out the red carpet in a manner undreamt ofby the founding fathers. 
Oh, if the founding fathers could have seen it! Americans cheering for a British monarch. How things have declined in the past 200 years! 
The truth is, Americans now seem absolutely fas­cinated with royalty in general, and the British crown in particular. How can this be, given our break from the Mother country in 1776? 
Our revolutionary heritage lacks a monarchy and all its ceremonial trappings. Perhaps we miss the pageantry accompaning a line ofkings and queens such as William the Conqueror, Henry VIII and Victoria. 
But this fascination with ermine-trimmed robes and gold scepters must be qualified. Americans are in love with the 20th century definition of the British ·crown, a crown that rests not on political power, but on ceremony. 
British monarchical authority began to decay in the late 17th century, when Parliament invited William and Mary to assume the throne on the condition that they curb royal interference in the business ofthe Houses of Lords and Commons. 

A succession of kings and queens saw their powers dwindle, and now tht· British monarch's only visible governmental role i~ reading the legislative agenda at the opening of Parlia­ment each autumn. Even then, the agenda is writren by the party holding the majority in the House of Com­mons. 
In essence, Americans love the British crown be­
cause it is glamorous, and politically harmless. Thus, the 
monarchy, while it retains its fairy tale aura, does not 
offend our democratic ideals. 

With this in mind, I wonder ifAmerica is finally ready 
for a monarch, in the 20th century sense ofthe word? 
In all seriousness, this is not such a far-fetched idea. 
Many nations have two leaders, a head of state and a 
head ofgovernment. The head ofstate is responsible for 
ceremonial matters, while the head of government is 
free to work on policy issues. 

Scholars of the American presidency are quick to 
note that the responsibilities of the office have become 
too great for one person to handle. Dividing those 
The Observer AZAR'S BIG BOY SPECIAL Design Editor.). P. Key<" A.A.-The Meat Design Assistant ............... Dill Pickle Pete TJ•pesetters ............................ Ketchup Tom and Toni Tomato News Editor................................ Mayo Dave Copy Editor ..............................Saucy Kath\' Features Layout ............................... : ....... )~ Editorials Layout................... Toa.,ted Tari !>ports Copy &litor..... Chris & J P.-fries ND Day Editor.................. . ...... Mike Ad Design ......................... What's His Name Pbotograpber....................................... llamn Guest Appearttnces..Jeh-llowdy-Howdy­Howdy-Terry, One More for the Road­Goomhye, Chuck Sandinista's Tunes, Pete's Howdy-Howdy-llowdy·Janc,J.P.'s Howdy-Howdy-Howdy-Maria  
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 ~~ published Monday through Fnday ana on horne football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on per~uds The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame ana Sa1n1 Marys Cot lege SubscnpliOns rnay be purchased for $25 per year IS t 5 per serne~ten by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 n;e Observer IS a 'Tlernber of The Associated Press A11 reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage Pil'd at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556  

Leave Main circle at 7:15 ..•. Return after concert 
AFTERWARDS BRING YOUR TICKET STUBS TO RAFFERTY'S FOR DRINK SPECIALS 211D REQUIRED 

Tim Vercellotti 
News Editor 
~ 
------------.i~Q~;.' ­
Inside Monday 
1.­
........... ~ 
responsibilities along a ceremony-policy .line could lead to more effective government, and would reduce the wear and tear on the president. 
For example, while the president drafts his budget message, the king could greet the visiting Eagle Scouts in the Rose Garden. While the president confers with Pentagon officials on defense spending, the king could smash a bottle of champagne against the hull of a new sub or aircraft carrier. While the president meets with Western leaders at the annual economic summit, the 
king could rub elbows with the crowns of Great Britain,"
/ 
Spain and japan. 
Some of the trappings for a monarchy are already in place. The pageantry of the last presidential inaugura­tion would rival any corona­tion; onlv a crown and a scepter were missing. 
The White House, or the presidential palace as it was referred to in its early his­tory, could suffice as home for the monarch. The presidency, stripped of its ceremonial perks, would be appropriately housed in a more modest structure. along the lines of I 0 Downing ~treet. 
The making~ of an Amnican monarchy have always existed. In I-sH. Patrick Henry argued that the presidency, as described in the newly-written American constitution "squints toward monarchy; and does this not raise indignation in the breast of every true American~" 
Americans understandably feared the prospect of an 18th century monarch. There is much less to fear, however, in a 20th century crown. The cheering crowds that greeted Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip last week acknowledged this. An American monarchy would enable the president to devote more time to im­portant policy questions. It is a royal, but very practical. idea. 
The views expressed in the Insidecolumn are the views of their author and do not necessaril)' express the views of The Observer or its editorial board. 
Free Bus Rides! 


The Observer Monday, March 7, 1983-page 3 
On the job 

Fitzgerald encourages happiness 
By PAT MALLEY 
News Stuff 
Are you willing to search for ex­actly the job that will make you hap­py, or are you content merely to "put in time" at a job and "save living for the weekend or two weeks of vacation a year?" Father John Fitzgerald presented this ques­tion/challenge to a small audience in the Library Auditorium last night. 
In  a  lecture  entitled  "Neither  
Heroes  nor  Clowns,"  Fitzgerald  
shared  his  boyhood  experiences  

living in Chicago's 50th ward and later in nearby Park Ridge. As a high school student he was challenged by a priest to choose an occupation 

Zimbabwe opposition is attacked 
BULAWAYO, Zimbabwe (AP) ­Troops sealed off opposition leader Joshua Nkomo's power base again yesterday, searched homes, forced residents to dig up gardens in a hunt for arms and interrogated hundreds of prisoners netted in a raid that left three dead, witnesses said. 
The dead included Nkomo's driver, who witnesses said was shot in his bed by soldiers who burst into Nkomo's house. 
Nkomo, whose house was ran­sacked by the soldiers, told a British reporter his driver, Yona Ncube, was shot in his bed and then his body was dragged out to an army truck and taken away. 
The sweep began before dawn Saturday in the so-called western suburbs, b,ome for most of Bulawayo's quarter-million minority Matabele tribesmen. The other vic­tims were a young man who tried to attack police with an ax and another who was being questioned by sol­diers 100 yards from Nkomo's house, witnesses told The As­sociatedPress. 
Troops also smashed the windshields of two of Nkomo's cars with rifle butts, aides said. They said the soldiers were from the North Korean-trained Fifth Brigade, made up exclusively of majority Shona tribesmen who form Mugabe's political power base. 
Soldiers armed with automatic 

rifles and clad in camouflage fatigues 
yesterday continued searching 
houses surrounding Nkomo's home 
and ordered families to dig up their 
vegetable and flower gardens in 
search of arms, witnesses said. No 
arms were found, they said. 
Hundreds of paramilitary police and troops ofboth the Fifth Brigade and the crack, white-officered No. 1 Paratroop Unit bottled up the wes­tern suburbs' residents by sealing off all exits, and allowed only those with valid identity papers to leave. 
Police sources said security men had detained at least 1.000 people, mainly young men suspected of being "dissidents," and took them to a police camp for interrogation. Those who proved their identities were freed Saturday night, hut hundreds of others were held for more questioning. 
Securitv forces have been hunting down Nkomo loyalists who bolted from the national army a year ago, when their leader was fired from the government for allegedly plotting a coup against Mugabe. 
: Buy : : Observer : : Classifieds : 



a•••••••••:. 

March 7 

The Red Desert 119641 MIChelangelo Anton10n1 11aly. color 116 m1n M1cne1angeJO Anton1on1 directed Mon1ca V1t11 1n th1S v1sua11y elegant nearly plo11es& mystery ol a d1sappeared child In c1nemascope 
AnnenlJerg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
~---lr t() ~ II tl31tllr--$-:..._?._o-0 .,' 
HEY JUNIORS! 

''FALL'' into the BAHAMAS! 
October Break '83 (DEPART: Day after usc game!) INCLUDES:.a days &7 nights at the Sheraton British Colonial 
• Round trip transportation from South Bend to Nassau 


COST:$410 
One last chance to sign up! 
A $150 deposit will be collected in 
LaFortune Lobby ~'\ Q'' Wed. March 9 6:00 · 7:30 ~C'(\f(;; •• 
FOR MORE INFO CALL: ~c:; Donna 687~ Tom 1783•Stella 6874 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES AVAILABLE FOR 
SPRING BREAK 7 Day Rentals 
e Rates starting March 8th at ~$129 
These rates are non-discountable. 
Cars must be returned to renting location. 


HERTZ 


President Ricardo De Ia Espriella, left, greets Popejohn Paul II upon his arrival atthe General OmarTorrijos Herrera Internation­al Airport Saturday in Panama Ci~y, Panama. The Pontiff later went to El Salvador. See story on front page. ( AP). 
Ph1labelph1a CluB 
with which he would be happy the rest of his life. 
"I looked around and the only people I knew who were happy were five or six young priests, so I ended up here (at Notre Dame)." 
The Assistant Director of Campus 


Ministry was graduated from Notre Dame in 1965 and ordained a Holy Cross priest four years later. He has spent the past seven years here "sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ with people." 
Much of that time Fitzgerald worked with and learned from Father Bill Toohey, CSC, former director of Campus Ministry, who died three years ago. In a moving ac­count ofToohey's funeral, Fitzgerald explained the valuable lesson he learned in accepting his friend's death. "Life will go on. Faith, hope, and love will go on. Don't lose courage," Fitzgerald said. 

Fitzgerald also announced he will be leaving Notre Dame after this year's graduation ceremony. He will study at Berkley for half a year before traveling around the country, observing various church groups who work with the poor. Fitzgerald hopes to set up a similar group ofhis own. 
"I was getting too comfortable here at Notre Dame, digging the moat around the castle a little bit deeper every day to keep the bad things out," the 40-year-old priest commented. 
In closing, Fitzgerald urged his audience to "love mercy, do justice, walk humbly with God. It's not new advice ...but it's not bad advice." 
The lecture was the last ofa three-part series on relationships sponsored by the sophomore class. 


~'~,~~~ .c~~.

~\ ~ ~~11 . ): 
1

~ I t 
_ I ~ _j ~ .-, 
--c::J-.-.--: CJ--­
Last chance to sign up for Spring Break Bus Trip 
Tuesday, March 8 
7:00PM 
1st Floor LaFortune 
Cost is $80. 


~:ciC:::;.ax'l~~~.,..~~~l(.C.'JlKC<;~:~~~ 
i I
I monday Night ii Special I
I Ladies Night 
~ 
I "~~:Dtink Special"

I (Buy 1 Drink-Get 2nd 1For 25¢) ~·
I**** Hot Cheese Nachos 50c***** I m Go ND Basketballers, I ft Seat Dayton I 
~~,.~~~~'~I'Si.lrei"OBH~.xcr.::11:C<~~~~.li 

Exciting Things Are Happening at 
Daniel's Den Lounge Ramada Inn Mon.· South Bend Tues· Dollar Drink Nite 
Draft Beer: .75C 

Bar Liquor, Canned Beer 
$3.00 a pi 

Wed.· Ladies Nite · %price drinks, and for everyone, all canned beer & bar liquor $1.00 
Thurs.· !VIens Nite. 1f2 price drinks. Mexican Border Nite ·Tequila shots: _75¢; Tequila Sunrises and ivlargaritas: 
$1.25 

Fri.· Smoking Blue Devil Dr inks -offered on Fridays only· 
Sun.· Now open 8 pm-Midnight Featuring Live Country Entertainment with the sensational "Whiskey River Band" 
The Best Live Entertainment in Michiana Feb 21 · March 5: "Phoenix" March 7 ·March 19: "High Tide" March 21 · 26: "Fabulous Sleepy Marlin" 
Just % mile north of the toll road 
~~~~~ 
....... 

The Observer Monday, March 7, 1983 -page 4 
For SMC Phone-a-thon 

More students to work phones 

By ANNE MONASTYRSKI 
Senior StaffReporter 
The Saint Mary's Alumnae Phone­a-Thon, will be more "student oriented" this year, according Mic­hele Morin, development commis­sioner, in charge of soliciting volunteers. 
"It will be less of a development (department) centered respon­sibility and more of the students' responsibility, because students will do more of the calling themselves," Commissioner Morin said. 
A major source of contributions to the college, the Phone-a-Thon will take place March 7 -March I 0, 6:30-II p.m. in the basement of LeMans Hall. 
Although not the primary Saint Mary's fund raiser, the annual Alumnae Phone-JThon does "set off the cost of operation," according to Director of Development Thomas Becker. 
According to Becker, the Phone-a­Thon is an "end ofthe year reminder system" providing personal contact with alumnae and reminding them of the support needed by the col­lege. 
Students are asked to volunteer a 

mmm1Um of one-hour, calling alumnae all across the country. Of the 2';6 students needed, more than ISO already have signed up to man the 16 tdephones from which 4100 calls will be placed during the four nights. 
Students interested in volunteer­ing may sign up outside 3S5 LeMans or call Michele Morin at 284-51 55. 
The Phone-a-Thon raised $';0,466 last year with an average per person donation of S80. Becker said this year's "active, efficient volunteer group" and their "enthusiasm" 
should bring in a heavier response than last year. Volunteers place a live to I 0 minute phone call anywhere in the continental United 

States for each night they work. An annual event for nearly a decade, the Phone-a-Thon has raised a total of $770,000. 


SMC Board discusses Alumni Phone-a-than 
By THERESA HARDY 
Neu•sStaff 
The annual Saint Mary's Phone-a­Thon, which begins tonight at 6:30, was discussed at yesterday's Board ofGovernance meeting. (See related story above.) 

"We have many people signed up for the earlier hours tonight," said Michel e Morin, commissioner of the event. "Hopefully, more people will be participating as the week goes on." 
Students will be calling alumnae from 6:30 p.m. -II p.m., today through Thursday. The event gives alumnae an opportunity to make contributions to the college, and it promotes alumnae/student contact. 

In other business, Kathleen Murphy, student body president, and Elaine Hocter, commissioner of student activites, attended a Crime Stoppers meeting last week at the South Bend Chamber of Com­merence. "The meeting was interesting. We plan to follow up on and participate in this organization," said Murphy. 
Plans for Little Sisters Weekend. scheduled for April I5-I..., are going welL according to Michele Manion. commissioner of the event. Manion informed the board of the planned activities, including a pizza party reception. sock hop. several movies, a breakfast in each dorm, picnic lunch, and a Mass. 
The weekend is "open to all ages and is in conjunction with Notre Dame's Little Sibs Weekend," com­mented Manion. 

Monica Gugle, commissioner of student elections, said "So far there is only one person running for office in Augusta Hall." Gugle encourages future Augusta Hal! residents to con­sider running in elections, which will take place the week of March 20 


Eastern cities are poorer 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Eastern cities are replacing cities in the South on the Census Bureau's list of the nation's I 0 most impoverrshed communities. 
Five of the I 0 poorest cities in 1980 were in the Northeast. In I970. only one made the list ­Newark, N.J. which rose from lOth to first during the decade. 
Newark, the only city with more than 30 percent of its population below the government's poverty level, was joined on the new list by Hartford, Conn.. and Paterson, N.j., tied for fourth; New Haven, Conn., No. 7; and Baltimore, No. 8. 
The nation's second poorest city w:L~ Atlanta, which did not appear on the I0-city lbt in 19...,0. :'.1iami, No. 6 in 19HO. also did not appear in 1970. Three Southern holdovers were No. :1 New Orleans. first in 19...,0; No. 9 .\1acon, Ga.. tied for eighth in 19...,0; and No. I 0 Savannah. Ga.. second in 19"'0. 
Arno Winanl of the bureau said the appearance of the Eastern cities retlects a movement of their more aftluent re~idents to the suburbs. 
Regarding Newark, he said: "The people with money are moving out of the city. It's an older city. It juM looks old. <,p people who have the m~:ans prohabh· ju~t buy a suburban hom<::." 
~k ~aid that "Th~: ( Nnvark) metropolitan area is doing very well. and the sam~: j, true of Hartford." 


Challenging opportunities are offered in the following areas of business management: 
• 
Finance 

• 
Contract Administration 

• 
Retail Merchandising 

• 
Food Service 

• 
Inventory Analysis and Purchasing 

• 
Transportation and Distribution 

• 
Fuel Planning and Analysis 

• 
Computer Systems 

• 
Operations Analysis 



Visit with representatives of the O.S. Navy Supply Corps to learn how your degree in . accounting, economics, business administra­tion, computer science, or engineering can prepare you for an exciting business career. 
Presentation: March 8 
The Morris Inn 
Alumni Room 7:00 p.m. 
Interviews: March 9 Administration Building Room 213 





Editorials 
Monday, March 7, 1983 -page 5 

But...can we trust the Russians? 
In a world imbued with a host of complex problems. there exists a childlike artraction to simple. often simplistic, answers. Such is the oft-repeated criticism made by opponents ofa nuclear freeze. As much as I hate to admit any validitv to that argument, I must. Often those of us in favor of a freeze fail to address the issue in terms of "practical" considerations and rely too singularly on moral or emotional 
C. Elizabeth Abeyta 
Guest Columnist 
arguments. Arms treaty verification is one of these "practical" items to be addressed. Few ofus would debate the inordinate stupidity of a continuation of the arms race; after all, why the need to destroy the earth eight times if seven will do the trick? The problem lies in our perceived inahlility to trust Soviet com­pliance with a meaningful arms control agree­ment. We must. therefore, answer the question: "Can we trust the Russians?" 
Those who would answer "no" cite several instances in which the USSR has "violated" the SALT I arms agreement signed in 19i2. 
According to James Timbie, the principle technical expert on the t 'nited States SALT II negotiating staff under Carter, "The Soviets certainly take full advantage of loopholes and ambiguities ... hut there is nothing (in the Soviet record) that can he called a clear-cut violation. We've had t1ve years experience monitoring Soviet compliancc with SALT (I ). and the record has been generally good." The Soviets have also legitimately challenged several questionable acts on the part of the United States (e.g.. United States shelters that conceal Minuteman silos). The tendency ·will probably remain for both superpowers strict­ly to heed the letter of the law, and no more. Our guarantee of compliance, therefore, will lie less in our ability to trust the Soviet's word than it will in our ability to trust our own sur­veillance systems. 
What ofthese systems? How do our Nation­al Means of Verification (including satellite photography, remote radar. and electronic eavesdropping) rate in terms of accuracy? Randall Forsberg, a research-analyst at the In­stitute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, maintains that there is no need to "trust" the Russians. "Satellite sensors can now read a license-plate in Moscow ... no major addi­tions could be made to the intercontinental missile and bomber forces without being detected." To this assertion two questions can be posed: 1 ) how vulnerable are our means of surveillance, and 2) if our satellites detect on­ly "major" additions. what of less obvious clandestine operations.? 
To determine their vulnerability. let us ex­amine a recent case. After Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi was overthrown by the Ayatollah Khomeini in February, 1979, the CIA opted to dismantle our Iranian listening posts near the Caspian Sea. In Endgame: The Inside Story• of SALT II. Strove Talbott writes that our Iranian stations were more important politically and publicly than strategically. He maintains that: "Redundancy of surveillance is a deliberately designed and highly prized feature ofour sys· tem." Therefore, should one of our surveil­lance systems be prevented from working, other systems in our intelligence network will adequately compensate for the loss. 
What ofSoviet non-compliance that cannot be detected by ordinary means ofverification? Clandestine production of small concealable missiles, warheads, or the testing and installa­tion of improved components? Forsberg maintains that "any cheating would have only small-scale effects, relative to the size, tech­nology, and potential uses of the existing ar­senals ( 50.000 nuclear weapons on the two sides). Cheating would be highly unlikely he-cause the risk of detection would be con­siderable, the price in the event of detection would be terrible. while the benet1ts of the small scale activities that might be undertaken would be negligible." In the past the Soviet Union has been reluctant to betray their characteristic secrecy in allowing on-site in­spections of compliance. Forsberg believes that the Kremlin would possibly reverse that position if offered a total and permanent freeze. 
The evidence is undeniable: though we may not he wise in trusting the word of the Krem­lin (in much the same way as they should not trust Washington), our highly sophisticated surveillance systems should calm our nuclear nerves. Talbot assures us that the Soviet Union also has great faith in oursurveillance systems. He writes that former United States negotiators Gerard Smith and Alexis Johnson found Kremlin representatives nervous when the Americans referred to information about Soviet arsenals that even the Soviet negotiators were not cleared to know. In ex­asperation the USSR head negotiator, Vladimir Semyanov, once blurted: "You've got National Technical Means (of Verification), so you al­ready know all that (certain weapons' data). You don't need us to tell you." 

International Monetary Fund: economic stability 
Only a few weeks ago, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker and a phalange of bankers testified before Congress in hearings to determine whether or not the United States should increase its support (and its propor­tional share) of funds to the International Monetary Fund. 
Robert Lloyd Snyder 
Over there 
There are two sides to the debate on the issue. More conservative politicians and politicians from inflationary "hard-hit" regions (such as Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Ohio) have argued against the aid increase for a number of seemingly sound reasons. First, the opposition argues that the aid which the l·nited States government bestows upon needy people should first go to Americans in need -not those in Brazil or Mexico, two countries whom such incremental measures are intended to aid. Second, the other main purpose of the hill is to bail out the giant banking conglomerates whose assets and equity are threatened by the insolvency of major debtors, such as Mexico, Brazil, Argen­tina, and Nigeria. Although many American banks would go under these critics contend, the American taxpayer should not have to pay the hill for the errors in t1nancial judgment and lending made by these banks. (As late as the summer of 1981 Mexico was considered a­"good" credit risk.) Like any other inefficiently-run business, these banks should face the prospects of bankrupcy in accord with the principles of free-market capitalism. 
The government's action in this particular instance is as financially sound as it is morally applaudible. The humanitarian aspects of the action seem clear enough: the United States, in conjunction with the Common Market, Japan. and other major industrial countries, increase their respective contributions to the International Monetary Fund, the foremost lender to the instable and developing Third World nations. As far as the political implica­tions go, it will help to silence the critics ofthe foreign aid programs ofthe industrialized First World nations and their overall treatment of the Third World. 
However, while the Reagan administration will try to play the "generous American" in their dealings with Third World countries, the underlying and more important reason that the United States is breaking from its stated policy in Mexico at the 1981 economic sum­mit are t1nancial. 
The United States and the remainder of the First World has been unable to break out of the "stagflation" of the last few years because the foreign markets of the industrialized na­tions in the Third World have dwindled to a trickle of the levels that they once were. Mexico is a good example of this phenomenon. Before Mexico ran into finan­cial diftkulties last year, Mexico was buying or bartering over S20 billion worth of United States goods annually, making it the third lar­gest trading partner of the United States be­hind Canada and Japan. Today, trade between Mexico and the United States has dwindlec to less than halfofthat. Had the peso gone under (as it nearly did this summer), the Mexicans would have been dependent upon barter, which would have reduced trade to nearly no­thing. Had the IMF been unable to assist Mexico in shoring up its finances, the Mexican market would be lost to American industry. and would have been "no man's land" for American products -made hv American hand_s. The IMF, to a great degree, ~erves as the "prime" to help these countries recover es­tablishing markets for the United States and 
the First World -a "jobs program" in effect for the industrialized countries. 
When the United States increases its proportional share of assistance to the IMF. and actually increases its total grant by more than 50 percent, the remainder of the First World nations are bound by moral and politi­cal considerations to follow suit. This also works to the advantage of the United States, because when the Third World nations in­crease their imports again from the in· dustrialized countri~s. it can only he assumed that the United States will reclaim its ridiculously large and disproportionate share of this market. Therefore, the other First World countries are also helping to fuel the economic recovery of the United States by acheiving lower levels on their "investment" than will the United States. 
Many of the opposition congressmen have said that they would rather put the increase to the IMF in a short-term jobs program which will directly help out America's poor and un­employed. Yet, if they look again, they will see that the IMF is-among many other things ­the best "long-term" jobs program that the United States has at its disposal. lending cru­cial support to the American economy by helping its customers abroad. 

P. 0. BoxQ 
DearEditor: 
Have you ever been in a situation where what you do or say may be crucial to saving a human life? Are you interested in social justice. in living out your Christian commit­ment of helping others and promoting the values of love and self-sacrifice in an im­mediate and concrete fashion' You don't have to move to South America to achieve these goals. The Notre Dame Right to Life group has begun a new service project of sidewalk counseling at the local abortion clinic. the Women's Pavilion at 425 N. St. Louis Blvd. Between 20-30 abortions are done at this clinic on Wednesdays and Fridavs ofeach week. 
Ever since the clinic opened (four vears 
Sidewalk counseling 
ago) members ofthe St.jo~eph County Right to Life have handed out material offering al­ternatives to abortion and information about where women can receive financial aid, housing, clothing, and counseling. The dis­tributed material also includes information about the development of the fetus in the womb and the dangers ofabortion. 
Some of the sidewalk counselors are con­tent simply to hand out this material and to witness to their commitment to life and to helping women in need by their presence. Indeed, sidewalk counselors have been told that women have decided against abortion simply because pro-lifers were there; their presence was in itself persuasive. 
Other sidewalk counselors believe they should also attempt to engage the women in 
conver~auon anu .ulempt tu pcr~ua<.le them to carry their babies to term. Counselors who work on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday, when women come tor preg­nancy tests and-or for abortion counseling, report considerable success in speaking with the women. The women are often un­certain about having an abortion and are wil­ling to listen to the pro-life position. Counselors do not harass the women; they sympathize with the women and try to show them that there are alternatives and help available. The women need not resort to kill· ing their children to solve their problems. 
One sidewalk counselor has told us that she has not yet spoken with a woman who does not readily agree that she is carrying a human life and that the abortion would be killing that life. Yet. because these women are generally young ( 17-24 ). unmarried, and without any source of financial support. abortion seems to he the best action to them. The counselors try to convince them that all these problems can be overcome and ought to be overcome in order to save the life. As mentioned earlier. the counselors have with them the names of organizations and individuals willing to help. 
Last Tuesday was the first day that we as a group attempted sidewalk counseling. We are having a meeting tomorrow, March 8, at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre to report on our activities and to make plans tor future sidewalk counseling ventures. Why don't you join us and help us help others? 
.Votre Dame Right to Life 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, .VotreDame, J.V 4')556 
Editor-in-Chief.............................. Michael Monk Business .'Hanager........... . ......... Tony Aiello
The Obsen•er is the independent newspaper publislied by the students of the L:ni­
Managing Editor ................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the admini~tration of eit'ler institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMC Executive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Prod;:ction Manager..................Maura Murphy
curatelv and as objectivelY a.' possible. l'nsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn Systems Manager ················-·········Bruce Oakley
the v1ews ofthe1r authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ............................ Joe Musumeci
and the free expression ofnrying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
( 219) 239-5303 
--~---~·-~---~ -----~--------------------~­
Triumph for a scrub 
Tennesse Williams: in memo 
T
his story is not for everyone. Ifyou were your high school's num­ber one superstar athlete, you may want to go ahead and get 
Joseph Rodriguez
started on the crossword puzzle. Ifyou've always been the captain of the team, the most valuable player, and the coach's favorite, you may as well start'studying for your next test. I'm sure Tony Hunter and 
John Paxson are great guys but they just won't understand what I'm 
features 
about to discuss. In fact, even ifyou were just a plain old first strin­
ger, this story is probably not for you because this story is about uyhere was something strange about the boy, a nerve to stammer out a few lines. 
being a scrub. 

nervousness, a softness a tenderness which "Autograph ...please ...autograph."
Ifyou had never heard the term before, you may have gathered wasn't the least bit effeminate looking -still -that He smiled and greeted my embarrassment with his that a scrub is the guy or girl at the end ofthe bench, the fourth­thing was there . ·.." · own warmth and shyness. As I awkwardly otlered a stringer, and the team member who gets his chance only when the Tennessee Williams, "A Streetcar Named Desire" crumpled napkin for his signature, I felt an overwhelm­game is securely won or hopelessly lost. A scrub gets in for what is ing desire to cover the moment with words. 
accurately described as garbage time. But a scrub is identifiable for 
Ten days ago, Tennessee Williams died. Maybe one "I just read "A Streetcar Named Desire." I really liked man's death does not mean much in a world where it," I said. dying is as commonplace as the sterile drone of the Before the last word had left my mouth, I felt 
Chris Fraser 

newscaster's voice. But with Williams went a piece of ashamedat the immaturity oftheir tone. Williams, all ofour hearts -whether we know it or not. however, smiled and said how pleased he was to learn At first, my reaction was one of transient and ep­that the young were still reading his work. In this 
hemeral sorrow. It was the kind that is exhibited when momentary brush with greatness I felt his warmth as it is the chic thing to do. But then I began to think about well as the pain that haunted him. more than just his permanent spot on the bench. A trained observer 
features 

what Tennessee Williams has accomplished as an In his lifetime Williams wrote about the subjects that can spot a scrub by looking for a few tell-tale characteristics. 
American, no, as a universal playwright. most of us banish from our thoughts. He wrote about 
I. A scrub's uniform doesn't fit quite right. 
So as the dim pallorofthis depression began to sett!t: pain, madness, the decay ofyouth, alienation and love. 
2. Ascrub always tries to sit or stand near the coach. (This is so the 
on me like a dark cloud, I ascended the ancient steps of Most importantly love. Love, in its myriad shapes, was coach won't forget about him.) 
Washington Hall to present myself in the medium Wil­the basis for much of his tortured art. Yet despite the 
3. The coach always mispronounces a scrub's name. 
liams loved so much: the theatre. profound influence he has had upon me, I had forgotten 4. In football or baseball, the scrub likes to dive around a lot in pre­
As Iwaited backstage, along with my fellow actresses what his art has meant to me ...until last Friday. game warm-ups to get his uniform dirty. 
and actors, Dr. Reginald Bain (director of"Marathon Then in that moment of regretful remembrance I S. Ascrub's favorite movie isRocky. 
'33") came in to inform us that Williams had passed traveled back across the great expanse that time is. I More than anything else, the scrub is a dreamer. He dreams of 
away. Suddenly, in a room that had a moment before swam amidst the swirling vortex oftwenty-two years of game-winning catches and last second shots. The scrub makes sure 
been full of vibrance and electricity, you could have memory. I grasped for all of those tragic. memorable he gripes about the coach (even if he likes him) who refuses to 
heard the proverbial pin drop. Then we listened as Dr. images he has given us. In this moment they flooded recognize his athletic prowess. He's kind of happy just to be on the 
Bain gave his own heartfelt tribute to Williams; and as I before me like a rushing stream ofwater, uncontrolled, team and yet he is certain that heroism is just a game away. But 
looked around the room I realized that this one man had unly their images rising out of the ashes of the past. despite what Hollywood producers might have you believe, the 
left his special mark on all of us. He had, through the Chance Wayne making his last futile attempt to hold scrub's dreams rarely come true and he must content himselfwith a 
evocation ofemotions we are often too afraid to admit, onto youth and love; Stanley Kowalski as he carried the few humble moments ofpersonal glory. You've probably figured out 
given us life on the stage. It made me proud to perform haunted Blanche Dubois to their bed ofcarnal oblivion; by now that I've a bit ofexperience as a scrub and it is just one of 
that night. the shocking immolation ofVal in" Orpheus Descend­these moments of personal glory which I want to describe to you. 
Eight years ago I spent several weeks in the Florida ing;" the touching comedy of Rosa and Alvaro in "The The time: spring of 1979. The place: St. Joseph's High School, 
Keys. One day while in a Key West restaurant Williams Rose Tattoo;" and ofcourse the fiery heat that flamed Metuchen, NewJersey. The sport: basketball. The achievement: the 
ambled in: I did not know him by sight, but my efferves­the passions ofMaggie, Brick and Big Daddy in "Cat on a famous four-point-play. I don't think that news of my famous four­
cent mother did and she wanted his autograph. She ex­Hot Tin Roof." point-play made the wire services so I'll go ahead and fill you in on· 
ercised her parental prerogative, and sent me offto The list could go on and on. But these are some ofthe the unforgettable details. (Well/ haven't forgotten them anyway.) 
solicit it. most memorable. These are the characters that have It was my junior year (alas I remained a scrub as a senior) and we 
Despite my natural timidity I somehow found the become a part ofthe American, more appropriately uni-were playing our cross-town rival, St. Thomas. Although they had up­set us the previous year, we were heavily favored -this was my kind ofgame. The pre-game pressure was intense because some of my friends had bets where they'd given twenty or twenty-five points. I 
l I The Clancy's are comingknew their money (and quite possibly someone's neck) might ride on the crucial free throw ofa scrub. Well, my team pretty much dominated the game and as the fourth quarter rolled around, I waited eagerly for the coach's call. In true 
S
o, here we are, preparing to dent Union is presenting the favorites as The Incredible Hulk leave for another Spring break.
Carl Love fashion, all ofour friends in the stands were yelling for the Clancy Brothers in concert at the and Charlie's Angels. The Fighting Irish are breaking up Morris Civic Auditorium Wednes­Pat, the eldest ofthe brothers,
scrubs and we had to keep turning around to try to shut !hem up. 
once again for the celebration of
You see, our coach thought this sort of thing was tacky and he liked day night. began his career in the theater in to keep you out of the game if people yelled for you. the one holiday which by rights The Clancy Brothers are by far New York, and since the success of "Curnan, Pfister, Zimmerman, Fraser," he finally bellowed. I flung should find us together. For the the most reknowned Irish folk sin­the Brothers as a performinggroup off my warm-up jacket and we huddled around the coach for instruc­gers in the States and elsewhere, has taken up farming exotic cattle tions. He assigned us positions and he really tried to appear in­
having been the impetus behind . in Ireland. terested. Still, we all knew that no matter what we did at this point, it press Besides his regular appearances
the recent revival ofinterest in wouldn't matter to him. 
Irish folk music both in Ireland and with the other Clancy's, Bobby The goal ofevery basketball scrub when he enters the game is to around the world. also does a great deal ofsolo work,
release 
score and there are several tricks of the trade that he quickly learns appearing frequently on the BBC. 
The group consists ofTom, Pat

to increase his chances. For instance, it's a good bet that the first guy Robbie has added the dimension third year in a row, St. Patrick's Day and Bobby Clancy, all legitimate
to get the ball is going to shoot so you should avoid getting stuck not only of another, younger. per­falls within the span of time al· "brothers," and their nephew,
throwing in the ball. Ifyou do get the ball, drive to the basket he­former, but ofa songwriter a~ well. lotted to the restoration ofscholar­Robbie O'Connell. Tom, besides 
cause a foul is then a distinct possibility. Ifyou are fouled you get a He does solo work when not on 
ly sanity. Lest we sh(lllld he being a member ofthe group, has
chance at an easy two. If, on the other hand, you commit an otiensive tour with the family group and has completely deprived ofsharing the done extensive work in the theater
foul, you can take solace that you've at least done enough to make just cut a new album, Close to the festive spirit of the Emerald Isle in and in films for screen and televi­
the boxscore and hence your name should appear in the paper. Bone. 
its season of bloom, the NO Stu-sion, having appeared in such tube
But back to the famous t(>Ur-point-play. Time was running out, we As can be easily guessed, the were up by about thirty-five, and I'd yet to get a shot off. Zimmerman Brothers are a varied bunch. and brought the ball down the right side, cut to the left and raced toward they inject this variety in their the hoop. I broke free from my man along the baseline and Zimmer­music. They are the masters of the man stopped at the fouline and (much to my surprise) hit me with a entire spectrum of Irish folk styles, two-hand chest pass. I turned to the basket and went up with a high and accomplished musicians as arching thirteen footer that softly swished through the net. I was well, with complete mastery ofan ecstatic. When I heard a late whistle, I instinctively turned to the ret; assortment of instruments, from ready to plead for my two points. guitars and banjos to mandolin~ 
I was Mill in a delirious daze as I was directed to the free throw and the bodhran (an lrbh folk stripe and handed the hall. I shot and made it. I think everyone was drum made from goat skin)_ surprised when the ref grabbed the ball and handed it to me for an­Well-known for their rendition other shot. But hey. I wasn't complaining so I threw up another suc· of the popular song "The Unicorn cessful foul shot. (I was a regular demon from the line.) Apparently. Song," the Clancy's repertoire in­the call had been a foul after the shot, resulting in a one and the cludes soft ballads and rou~ing bonus for moi. rebel marches as well as the typical 
The famous four-point-play was complete and I turned to trot good-ole Irish drinking song. they down the court. I knew I had to act cool -as if famous four-point­are not a group to be taken lightly, plays were part of my daily routine. Any sign of jubilation wou}d unless with a touch of Irish moon­mark me as a certain and unchangeable scrub. I knew I shouldn't shine, and they should proYide a have but !looked over toward the stands and saw my friends cheer­wonderful backdrop for the com­ing wildly. I tried not to but I couldn't help but let out a huge grin ing holiday, as well as allowing us which thereafter became my trademark everytime I scored. The to share a little ofour "Irish" coach would have surely hated it had he ever noticed. heritage before taking off for the 
I felt I deserved a banner headline for my heroics but I happily ac­wilds of Florida or wherever. cepted a small mention in the boxscore. "F~;azier l-2-2" (one field Tickets are available at the Stu· goal, two out oftwo free throws). They had sort ofspelled my name dent Union Ticket Office and good wrong but I didn't care (not that much anyway). seats are still available. 



~-­
am ... .. 
1911-1983 
I~/• I .... 
Thomas "Tennessee" Williams ~·/ 
versa!, consciousness. Each ofus with his or her own perception ofthat vision, but rapt in one just the same. 
These images did not spring from the ether. They were derived from a man whose tortured past was full offamily problems, alcoholism, drug-addiction, homosexuality and poor physical health. Despite all of the pain, and in truth, because ofit, he was able to write so poignantly. Williams has at times been criticized for his use ofsex and violence in his plays. But it was not of the loins that he wrote, but ofthe heart oflove and the will to survive. 
I can't help but think ofone particular image that never leaves me. When all the others have faded in their ghost-like iridescence and retreated beyond memory, I still see the fragile, crippled Laura Wingfield of"The Glass Menagerie." I see her as she tenderly arranges the delicate pieces ofcolored glass that are like her dreams. Gently she handles them like the fading colors of those dreams that never come true. Her faith, however, is never sacrificed to reality. And in her loss, her aliena­tion, her strangeness, is a sensitivity that transcends the pain. Love. 
So now as we quietly mark the death ofThomas "Tennessee" Williams, perhaps it would be most fitting that we bid him a peaceful journey, to wherever he is bound, with the closing lines ofTom Wingfield's monologue from "The Glass Menagerie." I have taken the liberty ofmodifying them a bit, but I don't think the author would have minded. 
EQting out • 
0 
ne ofthe worst things about living on your own is that you must take responsibility for feeding yourself. 
After 20 years ofconvenient meal service -Mom's very own fare 
and that ofdining halls at assorted schools and business offices I just 
can't get used to the whole idea offending for myselfat mealtime. 
The problem is not that I don't like food; I can hold my own against 
the most voracious ofeaters. But my philosophy about food is 
primarily utilitarian -I eat mainly so that I am not hungry. 
Filet mignon is hamburger in an unfinished state, for all I know 
about taste. 1 can't see spending hours cooking something I'll eat in 
10 minutes anyway, especially when I could care less whether it's 
vichysoise or gruel. 
So, meals are a daily adventure for me. Deciding where to go is par­
ticularly troublesome. My pocketbook can only withstand so many 
Bruce Oakley 
out on a limb 
.. -~-·· 


\ 
$.,. 


" .. .I didn't go to the moon, I went muchfarther­for time is the furthest distance between two places .. .I attempted tofind in motion what had been lost in space .. .I would have stopped, but I was pursued b_v something. It always came upon me un­awares, taking me altogether by surprise. Perhaps it was a familiar bit ofmusic,perhaps it was on~r a transparentpiece ofglass. Perhaps I am walking along a street at night, in some strange ci~v. before I havefound companions . . . Then all at once it touches my shoulder. I turn and look into its ~ves . .. 
I reach for a cigarette, I cross a street, I run into the movies or a bar-anything that can blowyour candles out! For nowadays the world is Itt by light­ning! Blow outyourcandles, Tennessee-and so goodhve ..." 
Woody thunders into town 
W 
hat makes a legend? 
If you're a jazz musician, it helps to have led 
your own band tor 44 years. It is certainly a plus ifyou 
entered show business as a child prodigy at the age of 
eight. 
And it doesn't hurt ifyour name is Woody Herman. In 
fact, it's downri~o~ht easy. 
If you're stuck in this town for break, or just won't be 
leaving till after Friday, this is your chance to see a piece 
of jazz history that's still ahead ofits time. Woody Her-
press releQse 
man and the Thundering Herd are coming to South 
Bend, and the "band'~ gonna ht· swinging." Having 
recently appeared in a PBS documentary entitled 
"Woody," which Billboard Magazine called "the best 
documentary ever produced on a musical pertormer," 
\Voody Herman ha~ been featured on numerous TV spe­
cials and talk shows. 
A veteran of the big hand jazz scene. Herman has 
been the sole owner ofthe "Thundering Herd" since 
19-i-i. During thb period. the band became one of the 
most popular in the country 
The big band sound has bt:en experiencing a 
vigorous comeback eversinceJanuary of 1980. This has 
been attributed to the popularization of the disco 
culture and the ~uhsequent movement towards a 
preference tor music that b danceable; the direct result 

has been an increasing regularity ofstanding-room-only crowds at performances by groups such as Herman's Mangione, Billy Cohham, Stanley Clarke and Leon Rus­
Despite his nickname, "Thf" Road Father," Herman sell. doesn't dwell on the successor the style ofthe past, but Herman will be bringing his unique form of big band keeps his repertoire C'">'ltemporary, combiningsongs of jazz to the Morris Civic Auditorium Friday night, and if past eras with pieces written e~pccially for the band by you just happen to be around, it's an act not to miss. For such current jazz great:; a1> Chick Corea and Steely Dan. further information call Spot-Lite Promotions or the Herman also perform~ renditions of works by Chuck Century Center Ticket Office. 
visits to the more expensive restaurants. Repetition takes its toll, too, as there are only so many fast food places around, and they are each most easily tolerated on an occasional basis. 
The selection ofan appropriate emporium is further complicated by the fact that, no matter how utilitarian my philosophy may be, eating is an activity most enjoyed in company. 
Choosing, or perhaps more accurately, finding a dinner com­panion each night becomes quite a chore. Many of those who are willing are· also swine -smacking their lips at every bite, slurping their soup or chomping and snorting like pigs at trough. All utilitarian philosophy aside, I prefer to dine with some degree of elegance and etiquette. 
Ofthose would-be companions who are not swine, several have the good taste not to want to be seen with me. Several others are at­tached to members of the opposite sex (figuratively speaking, of course) and generally have prior commitments to dine with said at­tachees. And ofcourse there are some who refuse to eat at one oran­other of those occasionally tolerable slop shops. 
Naturally, because ofthe nature ofthe community in which !live, most ofthese candidates are also budget-conscious students. 
Why should they pass up a free meal in the dining hall (convenience outweighs taste, I have learned) to sup with me -un­less, ofcourse, I'm buying? 
And so affordability becomes a factor even at my favorite cheap joints, which defeats the purpose ofgoing to such places. 
I hate money, especially when it threatens my appetite. 
Given a place to go and a person with whom to go, the trouble is just beginning. Without Mother to select the main course for me, I am at a loss as to what to choose. For the sake ofsimplicity, I have developed a standard order for 
each place I frequent. I also have developed a set ofstandard addi­
tions to my standard orders in case I am especially hungry. 
For example, my standard order at a nearby all-night diner is pancakes, eggs, bacon and sausage (two ofeach) and a large Dr Pep­per (there is no period in Dr Pepper, but there is plenty ofcaffeine and carbonation, which is just tine at 5 a.m. ofa never-ending day). If i am hungry, I add hashed brown potatoes and a grilled ham and cheese sandwich. 
Changes in the menu can be particularly upsetting: The afore­mentioned all-night eatery dropped grilled ham and cheese from its bill offare several months ago. I keep the sandwich on my list be­cause standard additions never die, and hecause I haven't been hungry enough to order one in a while, anyway. Traditions must endure. 
Three years ofstandard orders, however, can become a bit tiresome. Every now and then, again throwing my utilitarian philosophy to the four winds, I try to order what I think Mother would want me to eat. 
llntortunately, liver has the same ell"ect on me that I imagine raw squid would have on anyone else. 
Where, with whom, and what to eat are by no means an exhaustive 
list ofdiftlculties for those of us foraging in a forest of neon tor our 
meals. Transportation can he a logistical nightmare, and the patrons 
at some late-night greasy spoons often make tor quite a study in ab­-normal psychology. · Those were-never problems when Mom was doing the cooking-
well. at least not transportation. 
But those days are gone; maybe forever. 
My destiny lies somewhere down neon row, it seems. 
Anybody hungry' 


I 


l r ISports=B==r=t=·e~.~~s====:=;:================M=o=nd=ay=,M=a=rc=h=7,=1~98=~==p=ag=e=8
By Tbe ( JIJsen•er and The Associated Press 
The women's golfteamwill be meetmg tonight at 6:30 in the women's varsity oft1ce at the ACC to view videotapes and discuss the spring tournament and spring practices. -The OIJ­seJTer. 
The SMC Swimmers ptaced twelfth out of -l3 teams in the :'1/AIA swimming championships in Arkadelphia, Ark. In the competition, eight Belles were named all-Americans. See details in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer. 
Mud volleyball registration will be held today and tomorrow in La Fortune ballroom from I 1-1 pm and 4-6 pm. Rosters should be comprised of6-H players, identify a captain with a phone number, and must include the ID numbers of all team mem­bers. Additional rules will be given at registration. -The Observer. 
The USFL kicked offits inaugural season yesterdav with tlve games and ~tome impressive attendance figures. In Los An­geles, Herschel W .tlker was held to 6<; yards in 16 carries as the New Jersey Generals lost t'l\_the LA. Express, 20-1 S, before 34,000 at the Coliseum At Mile-High Stadium, former Penn State quarterback Chuck Fusina scored on a keeper and David Trout kicked two field goals to lead the Philadelphia Stars to a 13-7 victory over the host Denver Gold before -l5,000. At RFK Stadium, Trumaine Johnson caught 11 passes for 15Hyards, including a 23-yard TO reception, to pace George Allen's Chicago Blitz to a muddy 28-~ romp over the Washington Federals before 38,000. In Tampa, John Reaves passed for 358 yards, leading the Tampa Bay Bandits to a 21-1"" triumph over the Boston Breakers before 42,000. And in Tempe, Ariz., John Ralston's Oakland Invaders shut out the Arizona Wranglers, 2-t-0, before 45,000. Tonight, Michigan, featuring Anthony Carter, visits Birmingham. -AP 
Scott Hicks, who will be attending Notre Dame next season, missed a crucial one-and-one opportunity Friday night allowing Indianapolis Broad Ripple to upset Hicks' team, No. :)­ranked Indianapolis Cathedral, 45-44, eliminating the Irish from the Indiana high school state tournament. Current ND freshman Ken Barlow teamed with Hicks last season to lead Cathedral to the Final Four. -The Observer. 
continued{rom page 12 
Whl·n frustration set in, so did the penalties. Staying out of the penalty box was one thing Smith cited as a must in his pregame talks. Hut the lrbh couldn't achieve that goal. 
On both Friday and Saturday, 12 whistles went against Notre Dame. including a ten-minute misconduct to ~ophomore John Dea~ey on the tirst night. Bowling (ireen capitalized on two of those power­play opportunities each night. 
Conversely, Notre Dame wasn't able to take advantage of its many scoring opportunities.· 
"We were really tight," Smith said. "We never moved the puck like we are capable of moving it." 
Notre Dame's scoring punch ­the first line of Bjork, Higgins and Brent Chapman -which had been responsible for almost 70 percent of the Irish goals this year, was held to only two. Bjork, Notre Dame's leading scorer with SS points, scored in the first period on Friday, while Chapman put in the last Notre Dame goal in varsi(y history in the third period on Saturday. 
Senior Dave Lucia scored his tlfth goal of the year on Friday, and Sean Regan made the Irish total five with a power play goal each night. 
A big part of the -problem for Notre Dame was injuries and the resultant shuffling of the lineup. At 
17:12 of Friday's third period Deasey was taken into the hoards hard I~· BG defenseman Garry Gal­ley. Deasey ended up with broken ribs, keeping him out of uniform the next night. 
Steve Whitmore took Deasey·s place on the third line. while Tim Reillv tilled Whitmore's vacancy on the fourth shift. 
The following night, Irish captain Mark Doman was tripped up by defensemen Mike Pikul in the tirst period and left the game with a knee injury. As a result, Whitmore was once again elevated, this time to the second shift, and Mike Metzler left the fourth line to join Steve Bianchi and john DeVoe on the third shift. 
Steve Ely. normally a defenseman, played wing for center Jeff Badalich on the fourth offensive unit. The on­ly part of the lineup still intact was Bjork's line. All three of the other lines had juggled their players. 
Above and beyond all the skill deficiencies and fateful mJunes, there was one problem that stuck out in the minds of all the players: the knowledge that this might be it, the end. was looming in the air. 
"We were thinking, 'This could be the last game,"' said Bjork. "It ham­pered our play because we had more than just winning on our minds." 
From the bench, and in the locker room, Smith could sen~e the feeling of his team. 
"We knew in the hack of our minds, whether it was this weekend 
or the next. or the next. the end wa~ inevitable · he ~aid. "The thought wore on u~ until it became a verv touching and diftkult moment." 
When that momt:nt t1nally <K­curred on Saturdav, the last ~otre Dame varsitv hockey to:am huddled around .\1c:'llamara hugging and 
reint6rcing each othn Even as the two teams t:xchanged their tlnal handshakes, the fans remained cheering the victory and the saluting the courage. 
Notre Dame's fans, in unison. ack­nowledged the previous tribute from the Bowling <ireen fans with a 
chorus of "Thank you Bowling Green. We hope you go all the way." 
And Smith walked out to center ice to personallv congratulate the members ofwinning team. 
To the very end. when the stands were empty and the players were filtering out of the solemn locker room, when it would have been so 
t:asy to be bitter and bad-mouth Notre Dame or its administration, Smith and his team conducted them­selves in a most dignified and re· spectable manner. 
"First I'm pleased to see that even when they (the Irish) were down by umteen goals, they never quit," Smith said. "Second. I am more than pleased to see how they handled tonight -with such a great deal of class." 
• • • Finale 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
etther tn person or through the mall. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
TYPING 
Jack1e Boggs 
684-8793 
CRUISE SHIP JOBSI Great 1ncome potential, all occupat1ons. For rnformat1on 
call: 602-837-3401. ext. 866. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans-$20-$200 One percent rnterest. Due rn one month. Onedaywa1t. OpenM-F, 11·30-12:30 LaFortune Basement NOTICE: LAST DAY FOR MAY '83 GRADS TO APPLY IS MARCH 9 !!! 
TYPING IN MY HOME (resumes. letters, reports. term papers, etc.), NEAT. AC­CURATE WORK. REASONABLE RATES. 233-7009 
Attention: Hopmg to WINCH a wench or ANCHOR a dude for your cab1n 1n FLORIDA next week? Well lake a BOW on land OAR sea. DECKed out 1n your very own N.D SAILING CLUB T-sh1rt. Call Lou at 67t 3! 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST Lad1es gold watch at the bars L S2turday n1ght. Please call LIZ x8084 Thanks. 
HELP!!! I've lost a gold cross and charn·­Sat. 01te 2/26. between Farley and D2 parkmg lot. PLEASE call me. Kate. at :x3838 rf you have any mto--1t means a great deal to me. 
WERE vou AT FLANNER S BASE· MENT PARTY SATURDAY N!TE? DID vou PICK UP MY JEAN JACKET BY ACCIDENT? LEVIS JACKET PRETTY NEW COULD YOU PLEASE RETURN PRINCE CHARMING Please return GIN· DERELLA s Silver shoes that were used rn B·P s Screw·Your·Aoommate. rm go1ng barefoot now Drop them outs1de 143 8-P. 1992 No quest1ons asked 

LOST .one f ••. THE DRAFT button. If found. please call 8704 anyt1me. REWARD 
LOST. Gold COin necklace Sunday Feb 20 between North D1mng Hall, P W . and the Library. If found please call x2966. 
LOST m C-D hne of North 1 blue N.D. backpack, contarns 1 red · unrfied'' notebook, Saul Bellows THE VICTIM. and TIME mag. If you picked 11 up by m1stake at Wed. lunch. PLEASE call 8830 
LOST--woman s gold T1mex watch. 1n or near 0 Shag on 3/1 I am very unhappy wrthout rt·· return rt to me and name your reward!! LIZ x6825 
Lost. RING OF KEYS-· Volkswagen car key. approx 9 others please return to Metallurgical Eng Off1ce or call 6328 and leave message for Dave Thank you 
FOUND NOTRE DAME JACKET AT STEPAN COURTS ON FEB 24/25 IDENTIFY COLOR AND SIZE AND IT'S YOURS. CALL MIKE AT 277-2653 
LOST A bnght blue knapsack With a 
suede bottom It conta1ned a notebook, 
keys and calculator PLEASE return to 
room 334 P W or call 2722 The contents 
are needed for a group project Thank 
you 
FOR RENT 

House4 bedroom. near ND. $250 per 
rna Fall  or  summer.  No utrlrtles  Phone  
(319) 322-8735 Patty  
FURNISHED  HOMES  FOR  NEXT  

SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277­3604 
~URN 2 BAM poss 3 AVAIL IMMED Neat & Near ND Call233·7631 
Student Rental. 5-bedroom home' $420 RIDE NEEDED TO ANYWHERE IN UPSTATE NEW YORK--BUFFALO. SYRACUSE ALBANY---WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL CHRIS ANYTIME at 3510 OR8573 
NEW JERSEY! RIDE Nt;:EDED TO NORTH/CENTRAL NJ FOR SPRING BREAK. PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906 
NEED RIDE TON. VA/D.C AREA FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE MARCH 10th CALL JIM AT 1763 
RYDPLEEZ? MPLS SPRBRK DAVE 3039 thanx 
LOVELY LASS needs nde to In· dranapolrs tor sprrng break ! can leave Wed. March 9. If you re gomg my way, call Lisa at 3882 Thanks! 
Need Rrde to eastern PA for Sprrng Break Allentown/Harrrsbg area. Wrll share usual. Call Dean, 8647 Thanks. 
ST LOUIS ST LOUIS Need nde to St. Lours for Sprrng Break W1ll pay usual Please call Moat 7126 
RIDE NEEDED TO ROCH NY FOR BREAK WANDA 7770 
Rrders needed to St Pete-Tampa area or en rt. Share drrv1ng and gas Leavrng Fr~day 3/11 afternoon. Call Mark 287­5208 
ATLANTA atlanta ATLANTA Need nde to Atlanta for break. Can leave Fnday noon. Maybe someone gomg thru FLORIDA can help Call Dave at x693 I 
NEED RIDERS TO HARRISBURG PA AREA OR ANYWHERE ON TPIKE CALL JEFF at 232-4731 
Anyone gomg to MARYLAND· SALT /WASH area-I really need a nde HOMEI An yt1me before or dunng break Call G1na x6961 THANKS! 
RIDE NEEDED TO ST. LOUIS AREA lor break .Call Mary at 287-0372 
Desperately need ride to Washington DC area. Can leave as early as Thursday 3/10. Will be delighted to share usual. Please eali Maureen at 7978. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 RIDES TO NEED DESPERATELY-R1de/nders to 
Boston over Easter Wrll share usual. can leave 3-30 at 4PM Make Ana happy, call TOM x6802 
Need RIDE to CLEVELAND for break Call Jack 1588 
RIDE NEEDED TO CLEVELAND FOR SPRING BREAK-CAN LEAVE FRIDAY AT NOON· CALL JOANIE X 2244 
Need 2 ndes to Eastern PA along 1-80 for Break t934 
RIDE NEEDED TO ST PAUL MN CALL CHUCK 283·3472 SHARE USUAL 
R1ders needed to Dallas/Ft. Worth area. Leavmg March t 0. 
Need 2 b1cycles. L:all 7796 Baulo Knschke 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO, WEDNEs­DAY OR THURSDAY, MARCH 9 OR 10. W/PAY GAS. CALL MICHELLE FANTO 7092. 
Need nde to ROCHESTER or UPSTATE NY AREA lor break Please call MARK 2103 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE 1980 Yamahopper MC Low m11eage, Excellent cond1tron-$300 Please call Dan at x6824 
3-bdrm. bnck ranch. 611 E Angela. CIA and gas heat. 2-car garage, !am1ly room. screened-In porch, 2,500 sq ft $69,000 Call287-812t 
TICKETS 
NEED TWO DAYTON TIX $$$call Steve 8919 
NEED 2 Dayton T1x$$$Steve 233-2651 or 239-5845 
Need 1 Dayton sludent t1cKet Call1934 Need R1de To Connecticut For Spnng Break W1ll Share Usual Please Call Dan at x6824 
ONE or TWO RIDES needed to the GAR· DEN STATE for Spnng Break Yes. we do want to go to NEW JERSEY for break. W1ll pay the uusual Please (PLEASE) call Sarah at 1361 or Maryat 1272. Please!!!!! 
CONNECTICUT bound?! We need (desperately) ONE or TWO ndes to CON­NECTICUT lor Spnng Break. Please call Mary at 1272 or Sarah at 1361 W1ll pay the usuaL 
LOOKING FOR FUN IN THE SUN OR JUST HEADING SOUTH? NEED RIDERS TO MYRTLE BEACH OR AIKEN SOUTH CAROLINA/ AUGUSTA GEOR· GIA AREA CALL ED AT 233-6311 WILL LEAVE FRIDAY NIGHT 
JUNIORS--Interested 1n one-semester study 1n MEXICO? See Marc1a LeMay. Center for Soc1al Concerns, 239-7861 
ATLANTAatlanta ATLANTA need ndeto Atlanta for break. Can leave Fnday, noon Call Dave at 6931 
SENIOR CLASS TAKE NOTE: Nomina­tions for Semor Class Fellow w111 take place Tues & Wed. March 8 & 9 1n the d1n1ng halls (C-D lines '" North) and Lafortune at lun·chlime Get out there and let your cho1ce be heard! P S --No Alan Alda·s. please! 
need nde to PEORIA, Bradley U., can leave Thurs 3/10 after 4 p m call She1la 2911 
8111 Bubbles Bastedo. Were all my efforts JUSt '" va1n, Has your love for me gone down the dram? 
·Your Bath1ng Beauty 
MEN OF ST ED'S. REMEMBER VOTE t-m\RK MILLER FOR HALL PRES!· DENT"! 
Hatre Knsha! I have seen the ltght and wtll be ready to convert & recetve the sacred tambounne as soon as I consult my present sptntual advtser Sun Jung Moon 
Partv Marty M·A-5-H DEAD! 
Sue and Russ, 
CONGRATULATIONS'!! Best WIShes lor a blissfully ~appy and fmanc1ally prosperous hie together 
love. 
Aunt1e Mary. Em11y Therese, and Ida 
JAD-167 DILLON-x42 ILL SEE YOU AT THE BANQUET. ILL BE WEARING PURPLE. OR PEACH OR GREY AND DRINKING A SCREWDRIVER OR TWO. OR THREE 
YOUR FAN. 
KAT 
JPP-167 DILLON-x40 ME TOO· ON THE SCREWDRIVERS! SEE YA THERE YOUR FAN, WILLED 
Tontte! 
Tonlte! 
Tontte! 
Camus! 
Camus! 
Camus! 
Tomte a: 7PM tn !he Ltttle Theater tn Lafortune. Monday N1ght Readers Theater presents The Just Assasstns by Albert Camus 
L1tlle Sibs-Buffalo· Philadelphia 
Anyone wno has brothers/ststers comtng 
for Little S1bs Weekend. Apnl 15·I 7. 
buses from the Buffalo and Phtladelphta 
area are betng organtzed. Roundtrip fare 
Buffalo $43 and Ph•lly $64 Reg1strat1on 
forms avatlabte tn the Student Govern~ 
ment Ofttce Deadline ts March 15 
SENIORSIII!I O.C.D.M. 
(Man, •s thiS go1ng to be fun 1 
Happy Mc:nday. Susan• Thanks tor bema sucn a qood sport when we obuse you · Love ;,rmee Steoh. Mana ar,d Carolvn 
Ha. yoL. Q:.JVS ....odav rs otfrcral Susan Raab Qay T.r.at s nqnt. we are gorng toIT? CALL SUE AT 3560 OR 6810 FAR· NEW JERSEY" WILL SHARE USUAL TO rHE NICE YOUNG GENTLEMAN "efrarn fmrro prachcal,oKeS tor an entrre 24LEY 315 mo 233-6779 CAN LEAVE 3110 CALL MIKE 3389 wno ~coned me nts suver Cross pen at the '1our"~ 6 IJO Errnl rev•ew on Thursday please callLost Need RIDERS back lrom PHILA ar~a al me at 2706 so 1can return tt1o you P & Marcn 7th 1983 wrU go down ,., r'lrstory asA gold rehg1ous medal w1th Mary on the ter sprrng break Leavrng 19 or 20 Call 

PERSONALS 
Do I get a rewara lor betng so 11onest? 1tlP trrst <ln'1ua! SHA.£\8 Oav Mrtrk yourtront and Lynn Marre 5/9/71 on tne back Linda. 4412 

t..dJenaa~<:l t-tdVe 3 gned ·)t'lt::. SAAA8' ·
WANTED
It was lost on the way to the Credit Un,on APEX ROCKS SENIOR BAR WED N!TE

on Frrday. It IS of great st entrmental vaiue! RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY FOR 
tO TIL 2 Cnngr;;:~t;.riClHons 10 ~·ane .Jral. wrnner Ot

If found. olease call x1271 !! BREAK CALL ERIC 8406 
Ja1me ··· keeo on brtlng -I loved rt •ne swr.... ,• Jhar ~ffla .:..i. prvteeds go to Surts up 1n So. California. Dr1v1ng to MEN OF ST ED S-VOTE ~OR EX· Loga,.., f'-f:r'1•P.r Cahtornra tor sprrnq break? I could use a 7 SEATS STILL AVAILABLE ON THE
HELP! NEED RIDE TO BOSTON, NH. PERIENCE"' Someone claimed my black ski jacket lift G1ve M1ke a call at x1688 Thanks ME. VT, OR EVEN QUEBEC. CANADA' LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS HOME FOR To thtt\..G~ i<lllO was so nrce to my orunke11 
-from ACC Sacunty about two weeks. WILL SHARE USUAL CAN LEAVE FRI, SPRING BREAKII' PLEASE DROP MEN OF ST ED S FOR HALL PRES!· :Joss Saturddy nrght ago. !rSNOT YOURS. Please turn in to Need a r1de to DALLAS lor break Call MAR 11 PLEASE CALL 8580 OR 8588 YOUR CHECK FOR $75 00 WITH JOHN DENT VOTE MARK MILLER MARCH vall sr.oult nave put huT' -lway Lost t. Found or contact me x1025. Torn at .277-8061 ENGEMAN 30BSORIN TODAY"' S1lly Bunt
THANKS :TH 
_................................................................

______-----·----------------.....l I 

--------------------------------------------------~----~~------~·~·------------------~----~ 

The Observer Monday, March 7, 1983 -page 9 
Over Memphis State 
-Wagne~ paces Louisville in OT 
LOLIISVILLE, Ky. ( AP) -Milt Wagner scored all six of Louisville's points in overtime, including the winning shot\vith one second to go, to give the No. 3 Cardinals a 64-62 win over No. 1' Memphis State yes­terday in a natioiJ.ally televised col­lege basketball game. 
The victory let Louisville finish the regular season with a 27-3 mark, including a perfect 12-0 slate in the Metro Conference. 
The loss dropped !\1emphis State to 21-6 and 6-6 in the conference, leaving them in fourth place. 
With all-American Keith Lee get-· ting 10 of its flrst 18 points. Memphis State led for the flrst 12 1/2 minutes of the game. 
Louisville went on top for the first time 25-24 with 1 :27 left in the flrst halfon two free throws by Lancaster Gordon. 
With Gordon hitting eight of nine shots and scoring 18 points, Louis­ville moved out to a 39-33 halftime lead. 
The Cardinals remained in the lead for the first 10 1/2 minutes of the second half before Bobby Parks put Memphis State back in the lead 49-48 on a 15-foot jump shot. 
The lead changed hands six more times before Louisville's Charles Jones tied the game at 58-58 with two free throws with l :42 left. 
Despite several timeouts and much maneuvering by Louisville coach Denny Crum and Memphi~ State coach Dana Kirk, neither team 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 
o~' ~~~~ 
s '~--s ~ 'T 
o~'~ *'1\1~ 
20°/o OFF 

Good Mon-Thurs onlv 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student I.D. Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special . discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 

1705 S.BEN D AVE./23 at edison 
r-~z~~~;~~E~-·1 
i A new service to the NO community \ 
{ 239·7793 [ 
~ HOURS:.4-9pm Mon.-Thurs. i 
~ i 
~ Counseline is a free, confidential i r telephone service that offers r! professsionally taped materials that 1 ~cover a wide variety of student concernsj 
{TAPE NO. TITLE [ l 1 Friendship Building J ~ 7 Dealing with Collstructive Criticism i [ 8 Dealing with Anger [ ] 9 Understanding Jealousy & How to Deal l [ with II [ .. ]10 How to Say "No" l [ 16 Becoming Open to Others [ l18 Dating Skills l t30 Anxiety & Possible Ways to Cope with II \ l32 How to Deal with Loneliness [ \33 How to Handle Fears l [ 35 Building Sell-Esteem & Confidence [ ] 37 Relaxing Exercises ] [ 38 Coping with Stress [ ]39 Female Sex Role-Changes & Stress li44 Learning to Accept Yourself \ [ 61 What is Therapy & How to Use It i ]83 How to Cope with a Broken Relationship l [ 85 Understanding Grief \ ] 90. Helping a Friend • { 160 Early Signs of an Alchohol Problem ~ j161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking [ ]402 Self-Assertiveness l [ 431 What Is Depression r l 432 How to Deal with Depression l { 433 Depression as a Life Style ~ l 478 Becoming Independent from Parents • [ .479 Dealing with Alchoholic Parents \ l 491 Suicidal Crisis :i492 Recognizing Suicidal Potential in Others\i493 Helping So:neone in a Suicidal Crisis ~ 
~ Counseline is a completely anonymous ~ ] service offered by the Counseling & l 
i. Psychological Services Center· UNO \ J For Further Info or Assistance • ~Call C&PSC 239·7337 between 9·5 ~ 
~ ~ ~ \ 
L.--~~~~_:~~.=.____j 
scored during the remainder of the regulation period. 
Wagner's t1rs two fleld goals in overtime were offset by two free throws by Memphis State's Andre Turner and a basket by Phillip Haynes. 
Wagner, who had 12 points, then hit a 15-foot shot from the edge of the free throw lane with one second on the clock to give Loubville the victory. 
Gordon got only two points after halftime but led Louisville with 20 points while Lee took game scoring honors for Memphis State with 21 points. 
Sampson leads UVA over Terps 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) ­Ralph Sampson scored on a jump shot from the foul line with four seconds left to give No. 2 Virginia an 83-81 Atlantic Coast Conference basketball victory over Maryland yesterday. 


1983 Senior Formal BidSales 
March 7 -9 and March 21 -23 
Lemans Lobby -,3:-30-5:--30 LaFortune Lobby --3 :-30 -5 :-30 Don'tmiss ''THE MAIN EVENT'' of 1983 

Virginia finished in a flrst-place tie in the ACC with North Carolina. Both had 12-2 records. 
With Maryland leading 81-80, Sampson rebounded a missed Othell Wilson shot and was fouled by the Terps' Mark Fothergill with seven. 
seconds to play. Sampson missed both shots, but Craig Robinson tipped the rebound back out to Sampson. The All-America center wheeled and popped in his flnal bas­ket for a total of23 P?ints. 
Maryland called timeout with three seconds left, but on the en­suing inbounds play, Adrian Branch was called for traveling. Wilson was fouled with two seconds remaining 
and made one of two shots. Branch got a 30-footer off at the buzzer that was way off the mark. 
Jim Miller added 21 points for Vir­ginia, while Wilson had 10. 
Branch, hitting of seven of 12 three-point goal attempts, led Maryland with 28 points. Steve Rivers finished with 13, and Bryan Farmer came off the bench to score 10. 
Bill Varner, who has been coming on strong oflate, injured an ankle in practice this weekend and is doubtful for tonight's game with Dayton. Varner is coming offan 18-point, !!-reboundperfor­mance Thursday night against Seton Hall. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
Big Brother;tittle Brother Program 
Collecting Basketball Tickets for the Thursday, March 10th Northern Iowa Game 
Collection at North and South Dining Halls from 5 · 6pm Tues., March 8 and Wed., March 9 

The Observer Monday, March 7, 1983-page 10 
TAKE A PROF. TO LUNCH 
continuedfrompage 12 
Wht:n ~ht: ~cornl olf an offcn~ive rebound with "'I ~t:cond~ rt:maining in regulation, the Flyers took tht: 
MARCH 7 ·11 
lead 53·52.
Students, this is your chance to 
The Irish called a timeout with
invite your favorite professor or TA 
eight seconds left to st:t up a play, hut Yingling stole a pass from· Schueth, who had no choice but to grab her. The stage was then set for Dougherty. 
Ironically, the play on which Dougherty scored was not the one that was called from the sidelines. But the message did not reach the 

• • . Overtime 

to lunch in the South Dining Hall. 
dvance at the Dean's 
players on the court hefon: the
College of Science. 
referee handed Yingling the ball. 
"We were supposed to huddle at the foul line," explained Dougherty, "but the ref handed the Dayton kid
Would you like 3 credits in two weeks?! 
the ball. Nobody understood what we were supposed to do.
Art majors and non· majors alike 
"When I got the ball, I was supposed to throw it to Debbi
REDBUD SUMMER ART WORKSHOPS 
(Hensley) down the court, hut their whole team was already down there,
May 16 · 28 
so Idecided to take it down myself."
.... 
Things were so confused that, af­ter Dougherty's shot fell through, 
Choose from: Drawing, Biology, 
Ceramics, and Printmaking 
many of the players thought the game was over. Still. they quickly
Informational meeting for anyone wanting to 
regrouped themselves for the
know more about this program Wed. March 9, 
overtime. 
Five different players scored in the extra period. Three times Irish 
4:15pm in the gallery. 
For more information contact: 
players went to the t(>tll line and three times they made both shots.
Moreau Gallery· 284·4655 
Sponsored by the St. Mary's College Art Dept. 
14 in. 
College of Science presents... ­
register at least one day 


Pepperoni
n
'Buuto.'~ Pi~ II 
c: 0 Pizza 
0 "D $6.25 
z: 
Expires 3/13
~ 
.. .. ' 
~"Fwulay" V~cmmt 
COUPO
\.aQq€ 18'' Pizza $8.00 
"The clo~t: ones are always good to get," ~aid DiStanhlao, "hut you have to give them (Dayton) a lot of crt:dit for coming hack at us. We were a little stale because we hadn't played for a week, hut we're now a stt:p closer to a tournament bid." 
The bench came through once again for the Irish as Carrie Bates led the team with 15 points. Freshmen Ebben, Keys and Lisa Brown combined for 14 off the bench, while Kaiser ( 14 points, five rebounds), Schueth (ten points, five rebounds), and Dougherty (ten points) were the other scorers who hit double digits. 
Now DiStanislao and her squad can look ahead to Wednesday night's showdown against Indiana. The Ill game will be the last regular season game of the season and the last barrier to a tournament bid of some sort, whether it be NIT or NCAA. The Dayton win adds to the team's confidence and gives the players extra incentive. 
"We're playing real well," said Dougherty, "and we'll have some new wrinkles in our offense that they (Indiana) haven't seen yet." 
IRISH ITEMS -While the recovery of Ebben is definitely good news for the Irish, there is also some bad news in the injury report. Junior Jenny Klauke, who suffered a stress fracture ofher foot in the West Coast 
1 Only

native Americans and people of the Third World in Central America. 
1I $7 49

Check out whether being a Capuchin, 
I . 

committed to living for God and his people, 
1 in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No 
I 

obligation. Write today for more ..iiiill information. 
1 ~,~ 

........................ Clip and Mail Today! ...................... 
• Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue, 
-II ~ 

Detroit, Ml 48207 
I '-Jill:.®
I

Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. 
I 
swing at the end of January, is now out for the rest of the year. 
tBASKETBALL 
Yesterday's Result Notre Dame women 68, Dayton women 64 Dayton women (64) 
M FG-A  FT·A  R  F  p  
Burks  26  7-13  2-3  7  4  16  
Curd  34  38  2-2  5  3  8  
Y1nghng  45  5-10  3-4  16  3  13  
Abla  42  9-17  0-0  2  5  18  
Palmer  32  3-9  0·1  0  3  6  
Byers  3  0·0  0-0  0  0  0  
Plank  11  0·1  1-2  3  1  1  
Youngpeter  3  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Klette  10  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Cah1ll  11  1-6  0·0  1  1  2  
Schaefer  8  0-2  0-0  1  0  (l  
225 28-66  8-12  35  20  64  
FG  Pet  424 FT  Pet  667  Team  

rebounds · 5. Turnovers -24 Ass1sts -15 (Palmer 7) Techmeals ·None Notre Dame women (68) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p Ka1ser 28 4-9 6·7 5 2 14 Matvey 9 0-0 0-0 1 1 0 Sehueth 33 3-8 4-4 5 3 10 Hensley 34 1-3 3·4 1 1 5 Dougherty 39 4-8 2·2 4 3 10 Ebben 5 3-4. 0-0 0 0 6 Keys 24 3-9 0-0 1 2 6 Brown 11 1·1 0·0 1 0 2 Basford 6 0-1 0·0 0 2 0 Bates 36 6·12 3·3 4 1 15 225 25-55 18-20 22 15 68 
FG Pet. 455 FT Pet · .900. Team rebounds · 8 Turnovers -21 ASSIStS · 17 (Dougherty 7). Teehmeals-None 
Halft1me · Notre Dame 29. Dayton 26. Regulat1on · Notre Dame 54. Dayton 54 
Jizzcrin 
11061 So. Bend Ave. 
272-8030 
FREE DELIVERY toNDISMC 10 PERCENT OFF ANYTIME WITH NO 
COUPON, STUDENT I.D. REQUIRED. 
• SANDWICHES •PIEROGI• •CZARNINA •BLINTZES • 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 4:00·1 :30 A.M. 
On Any Pizza AnyTime z 
0
With No Coupon CL · Student 1.0. Required 
No other discount with this offer. 
UPON 

~WUJ f!Jpf'Utg3 
Reg~ $15.00 Ftee ~to. K.V. CtutqJU3 
OuWt 'Pint0 'By The CaJr£ood 
277-4'519 
~em etm1Jtm wifk IVtdett 'Btw0'3 I I OHfy mon -thur~s 4 -11 pm fRJ -Sat 4 -12pm 130l)JXJ€Way Just~ mJl€nORtho~tollRoab 
.... 

Throbbing head?
Live for God and His People as a ... 
Quaking body? Has 
Fast...Free 
Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive 
Delivery
yourself with a well·

Capuchin 
rounded meal from 
Call us. 
Domino's Pizza. We'll 
help smooth the wrinkles 
277-2151
a what? 
out of your day. 1835 S. Bend Ave. 

Capuchin Franciscans are a religious 
Domino's Pizza Plaza 23 Center fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in 
® Delivers.'" 
If . • the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's 
Open for lunch world. 
Ask about our party 11 am· 1am Sun.· Thurs._ Join us in promoting peace, education, 
discounts. 11 am· 2am Fri. & Sat. 

d . t. . h tt . . ·1 .
JUS tee--m g e oes... m ]at s... m © 1983 Demma's Pizza. Inc. Coke/16 oz. cups
I soup kitchens... in parishes... in halfway houses... on radio and TV. Join us in working with and for the 
r···············------.,

advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, 

Fora 16" 1-item pizza 
1
plus 4 cups of Coke! I Coupon value $2.25. I (Tax not included.) I Good Mondays only. 
1
Expires in 2 weeks. I 
Fast, Free Delivery 1
1835 S. Bend Ave. I Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277·2151 
I 
I
S~i~~~e~~~~,~~e!~ns2o.oo. I 
29832t26so 
I 

Name Age ________ 
L•••••••••••••••••••••.J

College _______________ Address _____________ State ___________ Zip ___
City 

Ihe~rver========================================= 
~4:)cj[~~======================~=o=nd=_a=y,=M=ar=c=h7='=19=8=3==p=ag=e==ll
Bloom County 

IT'S l"f A6AIN, 51EVE .•. 
YOUR GRW. 
f\L..IER E00. NOW WHAT 1 
Simon 
Fate 

,.--------, 
WW., I TH<MiiT 
W6'fl G01HROO&H YOUR PAST ANI7TRY10 17f5COV€R f{JW IUU 
60T1D B€ 5VCH A tOlf.£? A Wlf.£ ... 
' 


Berke Breathed 

Jeb Cashin 
Photius 
Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "Transnational Drug Firms and Dependency in the Third World," Gary Gereffi, Library Lounge 

•4 
p.m. -Anthropology Lecture, "Making It Crazy: Socio-cultural Factors in Deinstitutionaliza· tion of the Mentally Ill," Prof Sue Estroff, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting of Student Senate, 2C, LaFortune 

•6 
p.m. -Lecture, '"Picking the Right Company for You," Stapleton Lounge, SMC, Sponsored by Senior Class 

•6:30 
p.m. -Women's Caucus Meeting, Room 107 Center for Social Concerns 

• 
., p.m. -Dramatic Reading, "The Just Assas· sins," Lafortune Little Theatre 

•1 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "The Red Desert," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•.,:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Love, Work, and Family," Ms. Patricia McGinn, Carroll Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Dayton, ACC Arena 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Young Torless," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 


T.-V. Tonight -­



ACROSS 23 Festival 
1 Fruit 24 Daisylike 
stones flowers 5 Send 26 Indian 
payment 30 Rib woven 10 WWII area cloth 13 Yemen city 31 Journal 14 By oneself 32 Liquor 15 Dyeing 33 Dines 
apparatus' 34 Father: Lat. 16 Divorce 35 Emphatic city assent, 
17 Game for in Spain tall play· 36 Muscular ers spasm 
19 Withdrawals 37 Fathered of troops 38 Storage 21 Sewing box item 39 Improved 22 Perform 41 Calls up on ice 42 Construct 
The Daily Crossword 
Friday's Solution 


©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, )nc. 
3/7/83

All Rights Reserved 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. llp.m. 
16 22 28 34 16 22 28 34 16 
22 28 34 
22 28 34 
22 
22 16 22 28 34

43 Food fish 18 Resembling 44 Hope loose 47 Worker's tissue 
vocabulary 20 Nobleman 50 Track 23 Stood open· 
events mouthed 52 Roman road 24 Tete·­53 Harem rooms 25 Lover, old 
11:30 p.m. · 16 22 28 
12 p.m. 28 
M•A•s•H 
La\·erne and Shirley Joker's Wild The MacNeil/Lehrer Report All in the Family Family Feud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk !\lotre Dame Basketball: ND v,. Davton Billv (;raham Campaign Thar"s Incredible Beach Boys 20th Anniversary Special 
M•A•s•H 
ABC Monday Night Movie Great Periormances Newhart Cagney and Lacey NewsCenter 16 22Eyewitness News "'ewswatch 28 Indiana Lawmakers Tonight Show Trapper John and Columbo ABC News Nightline The Last Word 
The Far Side 

54 Delete 55 -Scotia 56 Sw~et 
potato 57 Not now 58 Smile 
broadly 
DOWN Young salmon 
2-fixe 3 Embroidery stroke 
4 Breathing devices for swimmers 
5 Clerical 
vests 6 Make happy 7 Small plant 8 Writing 
liquid 9 High school 
student 10 Mild oath 11 Relate 12 Heraldic 
band 15 Nautical word 
style 26 Gratified completely 27 Flight 
simulator 28 Charlotte ­29 Exudes 31 Gay­34 Small fish 35 Uttering 
loudly 37 Trap 38 Mince 40 Wrong 41 Writer 
without rhyme 43 The things 
here 44 Nautical 
cry 45 Beverage 46 Baby 
carriage 47 Leave hurriedly 48 Son of Jacob 
49 Persian coin 51 Macaw 



r~;;G;;;;t~"0;;~.8;"S~~;~."Th;J"e7t;;;~Air;;,;• Santana ... Hot Tuna ... Quicksilver ... Messenger Service ........... The New Riders of the Purple Sage .......... . IN 

in the Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom Tuesday, March 8th at 7:00,9:00, 11:00 
•• 1..,1£' nOCI\v /. f""/II~~ ' _
81 

f~/rhe ( emur_r ~IIIF -==­
-D:•H· H.

-----------------------------·JI 

Monday, March 7, 1983 -page 12

SRorts 


Dougherty, Bates star 
Women edge Dayton in overtime 
By MIKE SULLIVAN The reason that the Irish were enough tor any laM-second heroics. Sports Writer able to get through "unscathed" was When Yingling, a 6-6 center, their performance at the foul line. As scored on a short jumper to put the 
"We do these gruesome drills in a team, they hit an incredible 90 per­Flyers ahead 16-6, it appeared that practice," Notre Dame women's bas­cent (I H of 20 ), setting a team they were going to show their hosts ketball coach Mary DiStanblao was record in the process. A number of why they are one of the best Divi­saying after yesterday's game against those shots were made late in the sion II teams in the·country. Dayton. "We call them 'pressure game when every point was impor­But the Irish regrouped and, cooking.'" tant. sparked by some big play., from for­
Well, as the saying goes, you play Obviously, the . "pressure ward Ruth Kaiser, scored 12 of the like you practice. cooking" did its job. next 14 points to pull even at IH-1 H. 
This time the "pressure cooking" In fact, it was a missed Dayton foul The teams then traded baskets for wa~ in a real game as the Irish shot that allowed Dougherty to tie several minutes before Notre Dame needed to go into overtime to beat the game. Freshman Theresa Yin­finished the half with a tlurry, the Flyers, 6!-l-64, at the ACC. gling, intentio.nally fouled by Mary moving out to a 29-26 lead at inter­
Once again, sophomore guard Beth Schueth with five seconds left, mission. !.aura Dougherty, with a little help made only one ofher two tries at the The score continued to seesaw in from above, was the hero as she line. Dougherty, after taking a pass in the second half as the Irish moved tossed in an off-balance I2-footer the backcourt, drove down the out to a seven-point lead only to see over three people at the buzzer to court and put up her shot from the Dayton fight back to tie the score. tie the game and send it into the ex­left of the foul line. Freshman Lynn Ebben, who had tra period. "I was really looking for a foul in­been sidelined with an injury for the 
Notre Dame proceeded to score stead of a shot," said Dougherty, last month, then broke the game the first basket in the overtime and who ended the game with I 0 points. open by making three of four shots never fell behind after that in "But I didn't have a choice." and grabbing a loose ball. keeping its chances for an NCAA It was only fitting that Dougherty "It's what we needed at the time," tournament bid very much alive. scored the last points of the game, said DiStanislao. "While she (Ebben) 
"We won this by the grace of dropping two foul shots with two was injured, she kept mentally God," admitted DiStanislao, "but I'm seconds left to ice the crucial win. prepared and shot the ball around very grateful for that grace and that For about the first ten minutes of and watched game films. She's we were able to get through un­the game, however, it looked like definitely in our future plans and we scathed." the score would not be close wanted to see how she does coming 
offan injury. She did a good job." By the time Trena.Keys replaced Ebben, Notre Dame had jumped out
leers meet the end; 
to a nine-point lead and things seemed to be under control. 
Sophomore miracle worker Laura Dougherty, pictured above in 

However, Dayton star Donna 
an earlier contest, was at it again yesterday. The Hillsdale, Nj., 

Burks, who had been held in check
lose to BG in playoffs 
guard, who bit a last-second shot to beat Illinois State two weeks 

by a double-teaming Notre Dame 
ago, sank a buzzer-beater to send yesterday's game with Dayton

defense, broke loose and quickly led 
into overtime. Notre Dame eventual~y won, 68-64, keeping its Sports Writer Dame through, though. Bowling her team back in the game. NCAA Tournament hopes alive. See Mike Sullivan's recap at left. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
ByJANE HEALEY Sheer effort couldn't pull Notre 
Green's powerful and well­See OVERTIME,page 10 
BOWLING GREEN, Ohio -The disciplined offense proved too Bowling Green cheering section had much for the emotionally fatigued been abusive, and Varner doubtful 
obnoxious Irish. deafening all weekend. They had All-American Brian Hills, who was taunted the Notre Dame hockey held to just two assists when Notre players and fans with clever chants Dame tied and beat Bowling Green 
Irish host Dayton in 'must game'
and cheers. last month, racked up six points this But, with only three minutes left weekend. And freshman Jamie By RICH O'CONNOR has, Paxson doesn't have to do it all. as he scored 21 points and passed 
Sports Writer 
in the varsity life of Irish hockey, Wansbrough, who had just 16 goals He can beat you any number of out nine assists while leading the those same fans recognized the ef­all season, scored seven goals break­ways. Flyers to a 79-72 win. John Paxson fort and courage of the downgraded ing a Falcon record for goals in a For two very different reasons, But Paxson may be forced to play was the game's leading scorer with team. In one unified voice, they two-game series. without one prominent member of 23.
tonight's basketball game between called out, "Hey Notre Dame, we'll "We got away from our game Dayton and Notre Dame at the ACC his cast. Fellow senior Bill Varner "Watching Paxson go against Con­miss you and we salute you." plan," senior Kirt Bjork said. "We injured an ankle in practice over the rad should be interesting," says Irish 
is special. Keeping beat with clapping and knew what we had to do -force­First, it will be the last game for weekend and is doubtful for coach Digger Phelps. "They both stomping, the Falcon fans burst into heck-and we didn't do it." tonight's game. Guard Dan Duff will take a tremendous amount of pride
Irish all-American John Paxson a rendition of the Notre Dame fight Bowling Green was able to jump probably return to the Irish starting in their abilities. To beat Dayton
against a hometown school that is the alma mater for both his father
song. They didn't know the words, out to quick first period leads both lineup, with Tom Sluby, who has we'll have to keep both Conrad and and his brother Jim (now captain of recent
but they hummed the tune while nights. Friday the Falcons led 3-1, been opening at guard in (Roosevelt) Chapman under con­those dedicated Irish followers that and Saturday it was one_ goal better the NBA's Portland Trailblazers). games, moving to forward. trol." made the trip here filled in the -4-1. Second, and more importantly, Kevin Conrad, Paxson's Dayton Chapman, though only 6-4, leads 
the game is a key matchup of two
words as tears fell from many oftheir "We had hoped that we would be counterpart, has also been getting the Flyers in both scoring and eyes. t able to jump to a fast start," Smith major independents, each seeking some notice. Like Paxson, Conrad rebounding, averaging 23 points and For the next several minutes the said. "Unfortunately, they got the an invitation to the NCAA tourna­doesn't have overwhelming stats, ten rebounds a game. He is Dayton's 3, II9 people at the Bowling Green quick lead and it broke our back." ment when bids are extended this but his importance to the Flyer at­leading percentage shooter -from 
Sunday. With both the Flyers and the
ice arena -Irish and Falcon fans In Friday night's contest, the Irish tack cannot be underestimated. A 6-both the line and the field, and he alike -stood saluting the two outshot the Falcons in the first Irish sporting identical I7-9 records 1 senior, Conrad is averaging 13.9 leads the team in blocked shots teams. period, 14-12. But by the end of the and both owning a win over Mar­points and five assists a game. while playing a wing position for 19­Bowling Green had just swept night, the tables had turned. In the quette and a heartbreaking loss to The importance the Flyer attack year head coach Don Donoher. Notre Dame-8-3 on Friday and 7-2 end, Bowling Green peppered Irish DePaul, the winner of this game places on Conrad was most evident But these two are not alone. At the on Saturday -sending the Falcons goaltender Bob McNamara with 42 could gain a bid, with the loser last season when the Glen Ellyn, Ill., other wing for the Flyers is 6-7 fresh­on their way to Detroit next shots on goal while the Irish coun­having to settle for the NIT. native missed eight games with man Ed Young, an aggressive weekend in the semifinals of the tered with only 28. Dayton, however, still has one mononucleosis. A I4-4 Dayton rebounder who averages five CCHA playoffs. "Their goalie (Mike David) was squad dropped to 18-H during his ill­rebounds and 9.4 points a game. 
more obstacle -a rematch with the Blue Demons in Dayton this Satur­
Notre Dame, meanwhile, had just shakey at first," said Smith. "But we ness, but rebounded to finish at 21-9 Playing the post position is 6-8 day. South Carolina, another inde­
ended its IS-year history as a Divi­didn't exploit him. We started to lay with two victories in the NIT. senior Mike Reichert. The Mon­pendent seeking a bid, has already
sion I varsity hockey team with back, instead of staying aggressive. The Notre Dame game marked a tezuma, Ohio, native is also a force concluded its season with a record
more dignity and character than can As a result, he gained stability and return to action for Conrad last year, on the boards pulling down 7.2 of 20-8. Marquette has a record of
be expected ofany college athlete. confidence." 
rebounds a game. Reichert is also 17-10 after yesterday's 74-62 loss to
"If any good has come out of this While David was being reassured, averaging 9.4 points a game while whole situation, I think it is the McNamara was getting pelted. All shooting 50 percent from the floor.
DePaul, which left the up-and-down realization that these hockey players told, 75 shots were on the senior's Demons with a record of 16-I 0. Rounding out the Flyer's starting are good people," -'t_aid Coach target in the two games. Unfor­Southwest Louisiana, meanwhile, five is 6-3 sophomore guard Larry Charles "Lefty" Smith. "Through all tunately for Notre Dame, he has quietly compiled a 20-5 slate. Schellenberg. After hitting 54 per­the adversity and hard times, the couldn't come up with a repeat of cent of his field goal attempts as a
Barring any major upsets in con· ference tournaments, there should
character that has develpoed in his spectacular 95-save performance freshman, Schellenberg has been hit­these kids is outstanding." that earned him CCHA player of the be at least three available spots for ting only 45 percent of his shots Down by five goals in the final week honors three weeks ago independents -but at least six while scoring 4.6 points a game this 
deserving teams.
game, and ten goals in the total goal against these same Falcons. But then season. series, the Irish did not throw the again, McNamara didn't get the same Paxson's performance, in a game "We absolutely can't afford to lose towel in or start getting cheap. support from his defense. against a school so obviously special again if we expect to have a chance 
to his family, could make the dif­
"This year has been memorable, "Our defense didn't do a good for an NCAA. bid, and Dayton is in the especially since we started on the job," Smith said. "They were lax. same situation," says Phelps. "As far 
ference. The 6-2 all-American from
I 
Kettering, Ohio (just outside
I slow side and then began to pull to­They couldn't handle the Falcon as major independents are con­gether as a team," said senior captain rush, and they had trouble clearing Dayton) has been averaging 17.3 cerned, it may very well come downI John Higgins. "Even though we the zone." points and four assists a game for the to the last weekend when Dayton
l 
Irish this season. Not :;tellar num­
didn't win it, we gave our all to the plays DePaul and Marquette plays
See FINALE,page 8 

bers, but with the supporting cast he
very end." Southwest Louisiana." 
r 


