
• see Social Security -page 6 

VOL XVII, NO. 75 the inticpl'ndl'nt ~tudenl t1l'\\ ~paplT ~lT\ ing notre dame and ~a lilt man·~ MONDAY,JANUARY 17, 1983 
Thatcher maintains stand 
Britain to deploy missiles 
LONDON (AP)-Prime Minister "So they're not increasing the Pershing 2 missiles by the end of Margaret Thatcher, claiming "I am number of nuclear weapons at all," 1983 unless Soviet and U.S. arms the true disarmer" said yesterday 
she said. "They're substituting a negotiators in Geneva reach a she will make sure Britain deploys • modern weapon for an older one. missile reduction agreement. new U.S. nuclear cruise missiles this 
We needn't deploy any if the Soviets "I don't understand the uni­year despite growing public opposi­
_can be persuaded to negotiate and lateralists," Thatcher said, referring tion. 
take their SS-20s down." to peace activists who want the In a live television interview one Mrs. Thatcher faces increasing West to make the first move in 
week after her triumphant tour of criticism from the opposition Labor reducing nuclear weapons. the Falkland Islands reclaimed from Party and the strong grass-roots "I am the true disarmer," she said. Argentina, Mrs. Thatcher said the 
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament "I keep peace and freedom and missiles are vital to counter a Soviet movement as Britain approaches a justice." buildup. deadline for deploying new nuclear "One-sided weakness (by the "These are not extra missiles," weapons to counter the estimated West) makes war more likely," Mrs. Mrs. Thatcher declared in the hour­
.620 Soviet SS-20 missiles aimed at Thatcher said. "An effective nuclear long interview with the Independ­Western Europe. deterrent ... has been so powerful ent Television Network's "Weekend Britain is one of the Western because these weapons are so awful World" program. "As they go in, one European members of the North At­it has kept the peace for 27 years ..." for one, older ones will be taken lantic Treaty Organization that have "You have to deter a potential ag­down. agreed to deploy 572 cruise and gressor," "Weakness would tempt 
him. Strength stops him." ~1rs. Thatcher, whose term ends in May 198-t, denies rumors she will

Urban Plungers hold 
call early elections to capitalize on popularity she accrued from her trip last week to the Falklands.


follow-up session 
"I haven't even begun to think ofa McNeil, in chare of the Center for general e lection yet," she said. "I
ByPATSAIN 
Social Concerns, lead the prayer. don't want an early election ... I wish
StaffReporter 
Walsh compared the Plunge ex­to play it long (go the full distance), I'm that kind of person."

A "triple plunger," Senior Kevin periences and insights to the in­Walsh, discussed prospects for gredients of a gourmet meaL Left But British newspapers quoted unused, both expereinces and in­authoritative sources yesterday as
continuing social concerns involve­
saying the report will exonerate

ment last night at a concluding ses­gredients will spoiL Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are Mrs. Thatcher. Instead, they said, it
sion for participants in the Urban Plunge program. unique, Wals t h said, because both of­will blame defects in Britain's intel­Two hundred thirty-one Notre fer many opportunities to become ligence system for failure to inter­involved with social concerns. cept Argentine plans to take the
Dame and Saint Mary's students 

spent two days ofChristmas break in "There is always a need for social islands. some of the poorest neighborhoods workers, and with today's economy, in America as part of the Urban some of us might wind up needing Plunge program. their help," Walsh observed. 
Rare interview 

The follow-up session began with Among the follow-up possibilities 
a short meeting in the library Walsh mentioned were summer auditorium, followed by small service projects, volunteer groups 

Justice reflects on abortion case 
gatherings in various faculty and such as CILA, and social concerns legalized abortion 10 years ago, it am not tor abortion. I hope my fami­
staff member's homes. theology classes. WASHINGTON (AP) -"Author The session included a prayer for Reg Weissert, coordinator of the of the abortion decision," Harry A. used Blackmun's words, carving his ly never has to face such a decision." 
the family of Michelle and Rita Urban Plunge, gave examples of Blackmun said softly and slowly ~s if inevitable niche in American his­Blackmun is convinced, however, that the Supreme Court was on solid
Murphy, sisters killed in a car crash some unusual plunges: one student re-studying the phr~se. "We ali pick tory. 
went on a five-day tour of all the up tags. I'll carry this one to my "I knew it was a no-win case, but I legal ground when it ruled that awhile returning from Christmas 
grave." didn't ask for the (opinion-writing) woman's constitutional right ofBreak, who helped start the Urban assignment," Blackmun told The As­privacy includes the right to end anPlunge program. Father Don See PLUNGE, page 5 When the Supreme Court 
sociated Press recently in a rare on­unwanted pregnancy. the-record interview. "I still think it was a correct deci­"I am mildly annoyed at those, law sion. We were deciding a constitu­

Women~ societal role professors included, who per­tional issue, not a moral one," he sonalize it. It was a decision of the said. court, not my decision. There were Blackmun is an unlikely target of~

Board discusses Opportunity Week 
seven votes," Blackmun said of the moral outrage. He neither smokes 

landmark ruling in a case entitled nor drinks, and adheres to an old­By LESLIEANNE WADE In other business, the Board of In a move to solve ex1stmg Roc vs. Wade. fashioned morality. News Staff Governance began planning the problems in the Saint Mary's Student Nevertheless, most of the es­Unlike some of his brethren, 
dedication of the Haggar College Government, Student Body Presi­timated 45,000 letters since Blackmun is genuinely well-liked by 
Saint Mary's Women's Oppor­Center. The center is a renovation of dent Kathleen Murphy is promoting delivered to the Supreme Court's those who work for him. At one time tunity Week, Jan. 23-28, will feature the former Memorial Library. The the reconstruction of the existing marble temple on Capitol Hill have ridiculed for his perceived depen­lectures and other events emphasiz­facility is designed for use by stu­Ad Hoc Committee. Membership in been addressed to Blackmun. dence on Chief Justice Warren E. ing women's societal role. Several dents, faculty, and administration for the committee will be open to all "We still receive eight, nine or I 0 Burger, he has been recognized in activities were discussed at last cultural and social events. serving on the Board. letters a day," he said. "Some are recent years as an independent force 

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher answers a question during a live television inten!iew Sunday. She said that she still supports deployment of U.S. cruise missiles i11 Europe. Thatcher bad just retumed to Great Britain following her joumey to the FalklandIslands last week. In a relatedslOT)', a British commander was injured by a land mine on the islands. See page 4. (AP Photo) 

night's Board of Governance meeting: 
-The play Nine Women written by Karma Ibsen Riley, will take place at 8 p.m. Sun., Jan. 23 in Stapleton Lounge. Riley also will be the sole actress in this production. 
-A "Fitness Fair"as well as a "Women's Fair," will be held in the Lemans Lobby. 
-Louisa Kennedy, wife of former Iranian Hostage Moorehead Ken­nedy and founder of the "Family Network," will deliver a lecture en­titled "TJdng a Chance," at 7 p.m. Tues.,j-.n. 25. in Stapleton Lounge. 
-T•le movie "Coal Miner's 
Dau<~hter" will be shown Fri., Jan. 
28. in Carroll Hall. 
:iaint Mary's students will receive further information and a full schedule of events in the mail this week. 
very supportive, very lovely on the court. messages. But most are very abusive. Not the court's most facile writer, The more recent ones are as abusive Blackmun tries harder. His opinions as the initial ones." typically are chock-full of research 
Ignoring the ·advice of fellow -"perhaps overdone," he con­justices against reading such mail, cedes. Blackmun says: "I want to know In preparing his 52-page and 67­what the people who wrote are footnote opinion in Roe vs. Wade, thinking." Blackmun himself researched the 
They have called him a murderer, history of the medical profession's a butcher, even Pontius Pilate. They Hippocratic Oath, even though have compared him to the Nazi none of the lawyers who argued the overseers ofgenocide. case had mentioned it. 
On occasion, as recently as last Blackmun cannot estimate how year on the campus ofthe University much time he devoted to Roe vs. ofGeorgia, his speaking appearances Wade, which was announced onJan. have been picketed. 22, 1973. 
A devout Methodist, Blackmun "A lot," he answered when asked. has read letters of condemnation "More than any other case I've ever 
sent to him by Methodist clergymen. handled."
Elaine Hoefer I left), Vice President for Student Affairs, and Kath­
"I'd be less than candid if I said it He said he can only guess why
leen Murphy, President ofthe Saint Mary•'s Board ofGovernance, 
does not . hurt, but not as much anymore," "People misunderstand. I See BLACKMUN, page 3 
listen to discussion at last night's meeting (Photo byScott Bower) 





1NewsBrie/§ 

By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
World religious leaders, including father 
Theodore Hcsburgh, L:nivcrsity president, gathered in Vienna last Thursday through Saturday to discuss the nuclear arms threat. The leaders, joined by some representatives of the national academies of science. focused on a statement issued in Rome last September by nearly '55 world class scientists, one-fourth from the Eastern Bloc. that called for a han on nuclear wartare and elimination of nuclear weapons now existing. The scientists met under auspices ofthe Pon­titical Academy of Sciences, and a copy of their statement received approval by PopeJohn PaullI. Hesburgh, who is co-host ofthe three­day event. said that with both the scientitk and religious com­munities supporting the statement, "tht.· politicians will have to take cognizance ofit."-The Obsen1er 
D(}vid M. Prescott, professor of 
molecular, cellular and developmental biology at the Uni­versity ofColorado, Boulder, will deliver the Lynch Lectures in Life Sciences at Notre Dame today through Wednesday. All lectures arc at '1:30 p.m. in the Galvin Life Sciences Building auditorium. Today Prescott will discuss "Environmental Carcinogens and the Preven­tion of Cancer." tomorrow he will speak on "The Structure and Function of Genes and Chromosomes in Protoza" and Wednesday's lecture is entitled, "Mammalian Cell Reproduction and its Regula­tion." Prescott has done research in the hiolO!,'Y of cancer, factors regulating the initiation of DNA synthesis during cellular reproduc­tion. mechanisms ofchromosome replication and-function. and the structure of the chromosome. He is a member of the National Academy ofSciences. -The Obsen,er 
The Automatic Tellers the Notre Dame credit Union recently installed will not be available to the public until at least March 1. The Automatic Teller ( AMT) system. named "The Network," was originally scheduled to begin Jan. 1. Credit Union officials plan to make the AMT system available to a limited number of employees for a month-long trial run before opening it to the public. -The Obsert'er 
The number of inmates in federal and state prisons rose by I I ,055 during the third quarter of 1982 to a record 405,371, the Justice Department said yesterday. The department's Bureau ofJustice Statistics said there was a 9.9 percent increase in prisoners during the tirst nine months of 1982, compared with an 
8.6 percent increase during the tirst nine months of I981. Prison populations have been growing at near record rates in 1981 and 1982, and bureau officials have attributed this largely to new state laws imposing mandatory sentences and restricting parole. The total 1981 increase was I 1.8 percent. The record annual increase in the 57 years that records have been kept was 12.2 percent in 1939. Federal prisoners accounted for 29,403 of the total as of Sept. 30, 1982, or about 20 percent more than the rated capacity of federal prisons. -AP 
A longtime aide ofSen. Edward M. Kennedy believes Kennedy may resign from the Senate before his current term expires in 1988, a newspaper said yesterday, but a spokesman for the senator called that "very superficial speculation." Don Dowd, who was active in Kennedy's five Senate campaigns and ran the field organiza­tion in the most recent one, has told friends he believes Kennedy will step down in a year or two, the Boston Sunday Globe reported. Kennedy's spokesman, Brian Delaney, said yesterday he hadn't seen the article, but "everything of any substance that Senator Kennedy has done over the last six months indicates that he plans to take a very, very active role in the Senate." -AP 
Soviet Foreign MinisterAndrei Gromyko arrived in Bonn yesterday for talks with West German leaders about the deployment of nuclear missiles in Europe and East-West tensions. Gromyko told reporters his four-day visit would focus on "the car­dinal issue of our .time -how to prevent the dangerous nuclear arms race in Europe, how to make peace on our continent stronger." Government spokesmen said other topics of discussion would in" elude the Soviet Union's intervention in Afghani:>tan and the situa­tion in Poland. The first round ofofficial talks is scheduled to begin this morning with a meeting between Gromyko and Genscher. Tomorrow the Soviet diplomat is scheduled to meet with Chancel­lor Helmut Kohl. -AP 
The NAACP has decided to pur~ue its school 
desegregation lawsuit against the Chicago Board of Education, the city and the state, the group's attorney says. The NAACP also is considering expanding the list of defendants to include the federal government, attorney Aldus S. Mitchell said. Mitchell said last week the federal government "has assisted in maintaining segregation in Chicago by funding mobile classrooms and other highly segregative programs." A federal judge ruled earlier this month that Chicago's voluntary desgregation plan was constitutional. The plan was drawn up under a I980 consent decree between the school board and the Justice Department. -AP 
Cloudy and cold tod'ly with occasional snow. Some 
' accumulation likely around the lake. High in the upper teens. Cloudy 
tonight and very cold with occasional light snow. Low 6 to 12. Most­
ly cloudy tomorrow with a chance offlurries. -AP 
Monday,January 17, 1983-page 2 

Dr. King's birthday 
There is a young Negro hoy. lie is ~itting on a stoop in front of a vermin-infested apartment house in Harlem. The stench of garbage b in the halb. The drunks, the joble~s. the junkies are shadow figures of his everyday world. His father i~ one of the jobles~. His mother i~ a sleep-in domestic, working for a family on Long Island. 
There is a young Negro girl. She is sitting on the stoop of a rickety wooden one-family house in Birmingham. Some visitor~ would call it a shack. It needs paint hadh· and the patched-up roof appear~ in danger ofcaving in. Half a dozen small children. in various stages ofundres~. are scampering ahout the house. The girl is t<>rced to play the role of mother. She can no longer attend the all-Negro school in her neighborhood becau~e her mot­her is dead. 
This boy and this girl. separated by stretching miles, are wondering: why does misery con~tantly haum the Negro? In some distant past, had their forebears done somt· tragic injury to the nation, and was the curse of punishment upon the hlack race' 
Not all of history is recorded in the hooks supplied to school children in Harlem or Birmingham. Yet this boy and this girl know something of the part of history which has been censored by the white writers and purchasers of board-of-education hooks. They know that Negroes were with George Washing­ton at Valley Forge. They know that the tlrst American to shed blood in the revclu­tion which feed the country was a black seaman named Crispus Attucks. The boy's Sunday school teacher has told him one of the team who designed the capital of their nation was a Negro, Benjamin Banneker. Once the girl had heard a speaker tell how, for two-hundred years, without wages, hlack people, brought to this land in slave ships and in chains, had drained the swamps, built the homes, made cotton king and helped, on whip­lashed backs, to lift this nation from colonial obscurity to commanding infuence in domestic commerce and world trade. 
The pale history hooks in Harlem and Birmingham told how the nation had fought a war over slavery. Abraham Lincoln had signed a document that would come to be known as the Emancipation Proclamation. The war had been won but not just peace. Equality had never arrived. Equality was a hundred years late. 
The boy and girl know more than history. They knew something abom current events. They knew that African nations had burst the bonds of colonialism. They knew that a great-great-grandson ofAttucks might 
Today Father Hesburgh is in Vienna, Austria. 
The Observer 
Design Edilor..................."..... j.P.Keye•·A.A. Design Assislanl................... Pete, Brigette La)•out Staff............................................joe I TJ'jJesellers .............................. Rejjie, B.W.D News Ediror............................................ Mark Copy Editor .............................. ........... Kathy ND Day Editor................................. ..... Mike Features Layoul ...................................)oe II Editorials La)•out ................................ Ubby Sports Layoutor.................................... Chris TJ'jJist ................................................. Monica' Ad Design ............................................... Mary Pborograpbet·........................... S<::ott '2 11~· 
Hower Guesl Appearances ... .... Ryan. Par Three, Rampanr Protess.ionalism. 
j.P II, Kelly, .\lcCaughy'!' 
"As Dennis 

Ryan pines hopelessly awar..." 
The Observer ,usPS 598 92UI ,, published Monaay through Fr~day and on home football Saturdays except dur~ng exam and vacat1on per~ods The Observer •s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa•nt Marys Cot· lege Subscr~plions may be purchased for $25 per year tS15 per semester) by wr111ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a '11ember ol The Associated Press All reproduction r~ghts are reserved 
Second class pustage pa1d at "Jotre Dame lnu1ana 46556 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM JAN 26! 7:30 PM! 

Reserved Seats: $10.50, TICKETS NOW ON SALE CENTER BOX OFFICE; 
Open Monday · Friday 10·6, Saturday 10-4, 
and Sunday 1·4. CHARGE BY PHONE: To charge to Visa or Mastercard, call 284-9111. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to CENTURY CENTER 
120 S. St. Joseph St. South Bend, IN 46601 
Bob Vonderheide ''*:
1·~\ 
News Editor ____:,!;p 
Inside Monday 

he ruled out of some restricted, all-white restaurant in some restricted. all-white section of a ~outhern town. They knew that white supremacists had ddled the ~upreme Coun and that southern governors had at­tempted to interpose themselves between the people and the highest law of the land. They knew that their own lawyers had won great victorie~ in the courts which were not being translated into reality. 
Freedom had a dull ring. a mocking emptiness when. 
in their time buses had stopped rolling in \lontgomen·: sit-inncrs were jailed and beaten: freedom riders were brutalized and mohhed; dogs' fangs were bared in



1'1-fOW 
Birmingham; and in Brook­lyn, there were contruction jobs for whites onlv.

LONG 
The boy in Harlem stood up. The girl in Birmingham

LORD?'' 
arose. Separated b\' stretch­

ing miles, both of them squared their shoulders and lifted their ·eyes toward 
heaven. Across the miles they joined hands, and took a firm, forward step. It was a step that rocked the richest most powerful nation to its foundations. 
It was 1963. Was eman­cipation a tact? Was freedom a force? 
Martin Luther King, Jr. wrote this powerful essay in 1964-in his hook Why We Can't Wait. He would have turned 54-years-old Saturday if IS years ago James Earl Ray had not silenced the voice that by itself called the nation to a new awareness. 
His birthday is still not a national holiday. The proposal b again before Congress, but few mailmen arc expecting another day off nextJanuary 15. 
"How long, Lord," King once asked. How long will Notre Dame, a university standing for peace and justice. honor King with a few cakes in the dining halls' And how long will a nation refuse to formally acknowledge that King ranks among Lincoln and Washington? 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of their author and do not necessari~J' represent the views of The Observer or its editorial board. 
I 

------------------------~-~-~--~ 
--~-------~ 

---------------------------· 
The Observer Monday,January 17, 1983-page 3 

New St. Mary's program 




Sixty hope to study in India 
By CHUCK KRILL 
SttljfReporter 
\lore than 60 Saim \tan··~ and 
\iotre Dame women hope to trans­
fer to Stella \-laris College in India 
next fall. 
The reason may be that they wish to tour Europe, Asia and the Orient. They also may wish to explore East­ern and Far Eastern culture. The newly-established Saint \1ary's semester abroad program in Madras, India insures both. 
"All studems can usc a little bit of opening to the rest of the world," said Cyriac Pullapilly, director of the India Program, who will accompany the students on the journey, leading· them entirely around the world. 
Before reaching India the program will visit Tokyo, Hong Kong, China. Thailand and Sin­gapore. After spending a month at school in India. the group will tour South India and then return to classes for a tlnal month. On the way home they will \'isit \iorth India and various European cities. returning in time for Christmas. 

The Stella ,\laris curriculum provides an introduction to the politics,· economics, art, literature and many other aspects of India. "The curriculum is chosen to give students the chance to delve into the culture of India," said Pullapilly. 
The visas needed by the group mandate that prospective par­ticipants apply well in advance; the application deadline for the program is Jan. 31. Applicants must have a B average to qualify for the program, which will cost ap­proximately S2,000 more than the average semester at Saint Mary's. A maximum of 20 students will be ac­cepted. 
Because the program i~ still ex­perimentaL according to Pullapilly. onl~ Saint \tary's and \iotre Dame women may participate. 
":'llcxt year. if the program succeeds, it will be open to men," he added. 
"Our students need this kind of open-world experience, because they are typically quite parochial in their backgrounds. Any student from any major would benetlt from the variety of cultures participants 
will  encounter,"  Pullapilly  com­ 
mented.  
"I  don't  know  of  any  other  

program that presents these widely different experiences," he added. "It is so unique that for most students this will be a once in a lifetime ex­penence. 
Interested students may obtain application forms in Pullapilly's oftke (room _.;_.;6, \laddeva Hall). 
Among century's worst 


Storm dumps snow on Northeast 
.lfarr Pergola. a freshman from Far/e)' Hall, displti)'S her "Solid 

(AP) -A "classic" snowstorm that in some areas ranked among the worst of the century mired cities of the :\iorthcast in snow up to 2 feet deep yesterday. with still. wind~ building road-blocking drifts and causing scatternl blackouts. 
\!any residents (,f :-.Jew England. remembering the Blizzard of 19-H. swckcd up on food in advance of the storm and staved home. h-en so. puli<..T reported mam· accident~. 
A \lassachusetb man drowned l'arh· ,·estcrda\· at :\antasket l)l·ach in the ~outh Shore area of Bo~ton when ~rorm-dri\-cn wave~ swl·pt him from a sl·awall where he had 
been  walking with  a  companion.  
~aid  police  oftlccr  Richard  
O'Connell.  

Snow depths of more than a foot were common from northeastern 

Penn~ylvania to \Iaine, with some area~ getting much more. 
In Saratoga Springs. the old mineral water re~ort juM north ofAl­bany, :\.Y.. 2-, inche~ had accum­ulated h\' noon. 
Twc:nty-three inche~ of ~now had fallen in Albanv,the most tiJr any snow,wrm there in January since the governnwnt started keeping record~ more than I00 vears ago. 
l :p to _'.0 itKht·~ of snow fell in southern \"ermont. where a 'ki resort op<·rator coumnl it _a~ "a couple of million dollar~ an inch... 
Except tiJr a monster blizzard in IHHH that dumped -lb."" inchn of snow on the Empire State's capital. the accumulation was just a few inches short of the half dozen worst storms ever to hit Albany. 
Paul (ireaves of the :'l:ational 

Ford chairman seeks reduction ofimports 
DETROIT ( AP)-The number of The Japanese were "very much Japanese cars imported into the concerned" that the L:.s. House of t:nited States should be reduced fur­Representatives last month passed ther this year. the chairman of the legislation setting quotas for l'.S.­Ford \-lotor Co. said yesterdav. made parts on foreign autos, he said. 
"The amount (ofcar~) will have to The legislation died. however. at the be worked out, it'~ really for the end of 19H2 hdort: further action on Japanese to decide. (but) I think a it could he taken. lower number probably would be 
fair," Phillip Caldwell said on ABC'~ "Thi~ Week \\'ith David Brinkley." 
Spring Break 
Since the spring of 1981. _lapane~e 

Social Concerns Seminar 
automakers have agreed to volun­
taD import restraints. limiting the 
in 
number of car~ brought into the 
t 'nited States to 1.68 million. he· 

WASHINGTON D.C. 
cause of the domeMic auto indu~try sales slump. But in I 9H2, domestic automakers' car sale~ fell 7.2 percent 



INFORMATION NIGHT 
from already depressed 19H I levels. Imported car sales also fell hy 2. S 

Library Lounge lpm Mon., Jan. 17 
percent, but imports took a record 2"".8 percent of the l :.s. car market. 

f..,.._...,..~.....................................................~....................... ................~....--.~· ............... •.. 
. ~ ~ ~ 
SENIORS May 1983 is just months away,
ISINGERS, GUITARISTS,! 
what next? CONSIDER an alternative 
... Blackmun 

I AND OTHER l 
A I year postgraduate experience stressing: continuedfrom puge I 

~ INSTRUMENTALISTS ~ 
service, simple living, and Christian community. 
Burger picked him to writt: the dcci­

. ~ 
ston and asked that his thoughts on 

I ~ 
HCA volunteers are in serveral American cities. 
that topic not he made public. 

I (. Sf-\CRED HEART PARISH ' ~ 
For the record. he acknowlnlged 
For more information contact:

that lor manv lu~ role in Rot' ,-~ ~ -> NEEDS YOU! (t ~ 
\\"adl--"author of the abortion 
Mary Ann Roemer..239-7949
densiun" will shadow the re't of hi~ 

' ~ 
worl-. 111 a high court tenure dating i Please call the Parish Office ~ 
c~nt&?r For Social Concern 

hack tu 19-o. i ~ 
' (239-7511) or Mollie Bernard 
In a voice hetr.t~ ing neither ran­
Applications are now available.

~ (25.5-7139)! ~ 
cor nor rcmor~c. Blackmun ~aid: "so 

~ . 
Deadline for application Feb. 8, 1983
be it." 

\...._..-..-..-..-.--~-·~--,_;::.__._,._,.__..__,_._._,_.. ___j 
Gold" dancing form tl'ith john Trier. u Grace freshman. The pair
Weather Service in Alham had 
u•ere part ofthe crot{'{/ u·bicb a/tended the Chance to Dance Frida)'
predicted the storm would he "a 
night at Chautauqua. (Photo IJy Sco/1 Bou•er) ­
classic nor'caster." 

Winds in Boston gu~tetl up to -!S mph and several \lassaehusett~ communities lo:-.t power t(Jr a short 
Are you interested in tutoring
time as snow-laden branches pulled down power lines. l tilit\' olllcials in 
a South Bend child? If so, join 
Rhode Island ~aid -!,200 hou~cholds were without electricity. llomt'less people trudged to the Pine Street Inn in Boston. where ex­

& ffi ffiffiill
tra beds werl-~l'l up tilr up to 600 people. The storm. which ~wept l'a~t of 
THE NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY 
Bo~ton into \Iaine dunng the day. 
curtailed ~ome operations at Logan HELP PROGRAM 
International Airport on Saturday 
night. 

Transportation is provided and special 
"The snow here is Yen· wet and hard to clear." said Charitv Brown. a events are planned.spokeswoman for the \lassachusetts Port Authority, which runs the air­port. 
Sign up on Mon.~ Tues., Jan 17 ~ 18 in 
The heaviest snowfall came in the Berkshire~ of wt:stern \las~achu­
setts, where 2 feet accumulated. both dining halls and Tues., Jan 18 at 
Other accumulations included 20 
inches at Wilmington. Vt.. 16 inches the Student Service Festival at the 
at Binghamton. N.Y.. about IS 
inches in the mountains of Vermont, Center for Social Concerns. 
1-1 inches in northeastern Pennsyl­vania and northwestern Rhode Is­land, and up to I_.; inches in inland Connecticut. 
As temperatures dropped into the 20s, wet snow turned into icc. making roads treacherous. 
1 
1 



l 
l 
i 
I· 1 
' 
The Observer 


Linda Gase and Barbara Hardin don't exactlr look thrilled bJ• their ji"nd ofa textbook at the Student Union B~ok Exchange, b~t no doubt they appreciated the savings over new book prices. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
* CIH~ICIHAI ¥ 





monday night film series I 
Th1r1een tmporTant ftlms that span Amencal" and world ltlm htstory Held m conlunctton wtth GOTH 140 /Bastes of Film Studtes) and GOTH 461 (Collage 201h-Century Art Form) an'd sponsored Oy tile Oepanmem ol Communtcatton ano Theatre AU sMwtngs at the Annenberg Auditorium. The Snite Museum of Art, Notre Dame campus at 7 00 p m (untess otherwtse noted) Jndtvtdual AdmiSSIOns $2 00 Senes T1cl<et Any 25 htms lrom three ser1es $30 OC Any 15 films tram three senes $22 00 
January 17 
Cutter's Way 11981! 

lvar, Passer USA. color. 109 mill Czech~born Ivan Passer d1rected thiS reviStOntsl film nou set 1n decep­tively sunny Santa Barbara Cr1ppled V1etnarn vet John Heard and hiS QIQOio fnend Jeff Bnoges. take up the roles of detectives ana avengers m a murder case One of the most paSSIOnate and mtelllgent Ameflcan 
films of , ecent years 
January 24 
Citizen Kanep941) 

Orson Wf'lles USA. B/W 1 19 m1rt The young Orson Wenes 01rectet..: h1mse11 :-.nd a bnlllant cast. onclud1ng Agnes Moorenead and Everett Sloan 1n u·~ tale of the nse and !ali of a newspaper mogul W11n muSIC oy Bernard Herrmann ana cmematography by Greg TOland 
January 3' 
Criss Cross 11949! 

Robert Srodmak. USA. BtW. 87 mm German em1gre Robert S1odmak directed th1s qUimessenUal frfrn no11 tale of dup~c1ty and YIC!Irruza!Jon With the young Burt Lancaster ensnared by femme fatale Yvonne De Carlo W1th Dan Duryea 
February 7 
The Navigator 119241 

Buster Keaton. Donald Cr~sp. BIW. 62 rnm Th1s 1nvent1ve comedy. dlfected by 9\Jster Keaton and veteran com1c actor Donald Cr~sp has Keaton and hiS g1rlfnend as upper-class tw115 cast adnft on a g1ant ocean liner 
February 14 
Enthusiasm 119311 

Dz1ga Vertov. USSR. 8/W 90 m1n Former Russ1an lutur,st Dz1ga Vertov made thiS, I11S ftrSI sound f1lm as both a documentary~col!age of Sov,et mdustry and delinous demonstra­uon of the formal posstbllllleS of ed1t1ng and creaTive use of sauna 
February 2f 
The Crime of M. Lange (1935> 

Jean Renon. France. 8/W. 85 mtn Jean Reno1r was at the peak. of hiS powers m th1s popular front comedy­allegory set w1!h1n a s1ngte apartment bu1ldmg Jules Barry p!ays an unscrupufou~ publisher and Rene ..Lefevre the dreamy creator of oulp novel hero ··Anzona Jrm · 
February 28 
Lancelot of the Lake (19741 

Robert Bresson. France. color. 85 mm Inarguably hiS last grea1111m. dlfector Robert Bresson treats the Ar­thunan legends and the decline of ch1valry '" a style at once concrete and metaphystcat ··A 111m to see and see agam ·· Penelope Gilliatt. The New Yorker 
Monday,January 17, 1983-page 4 

Churchgoers horrified 
Judge shot in Northern Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern !~dam! ( AP) -Two gunmen walked up to a kading Northern Ireland judge as he left a Roman Catholic church yester­day, shot him dead in front of hundreds of horritkd worshippers and tlcd in a waiting car, police and witnesses said. 
A 72-ycar-old woman was wounded in the attack, which the Provisional Irish Republican Army claimed responsibility f(>r in a state­ment to news organizations. It said County Court Judge William Doyle was a "key tlgurc in Britain's op­pressive occupation machine." 
Doyle, 56, sentenced scores of convicted terrorists to jail during his four years on the bench in the troubled British-ruled province, racked by sectarian and political violence. 
Witnesses said two men with handguns walked up to Doyle as he was about to get into his car outside a Roman Catholic church, shot him. tlvc times in the chest at point-blank range and tled through the panick­ing throng to a getaway car. 
A priest who had just said Mass performed the last rites over the judge, they said. 
Police said the wounded woman was shot in the stomach and in serious condition after emergency 
March ' 
The Red Desert 119641 

MIChelangelo Anton1on1 Italy color 116 m1n M1chelange1o Anton,on' directed Mon1ca V1t11 1n lh1s VIsually elegant n~ar*y ptotleS!> mystery of a i::hsappeared child In c1nemascope 
Marcn 2' 
Vlvre Sa VIe ,19621 

Jean Luc Godard France BIW 82 mtn In hiS fourth feature. Jean Luc Godard d1rected Anna Karma as an en1gmat,cally strong yet VICtimized prost,tute Godard"s most 13rechhan film '' had an enormous 1nt1uence on other l1lmmakers 
March 28 
Innocence Unprotected ,,968• 

Ousan Makaveyev. Yugos1av1a color 75 m1n Dusan !Montenegro) Makaveyev·s WillY medi!Rllon on nationhood and freedom the him IS a three-nng c1rcus Jl old newsreels contemporary matenat and footage from the hrst Croat1an talkie lnttoduc1ng Innocence Unorolec!ed are two recenr Ameflcan collage 111ms Mongolata by Bruce Conner fw,th mus1c by Devol and Franklt 1m by Frank Morras 
Apr~/4 
Shock Corridor 119611 

Samuel ~uller USA color & B/W 101 mm Mavenc~ dlfector Samuel Fuller used Constance Powers and a B mov1e cast 1n thiS consistently trant1c and overheated pulp allegory of Amenca mtas an 1nsane asylum "Fuller 1S an authentiC Ameflcan pr1m1t1ve whose works have to be seen to be understood ··-Andrew Sarns 
Aont 'r 
The Atomic Caf&i1980J 

Jayne Loader, Kevm and P1erce Rafferty. USA. color 80 mm t An 1""111ar,ous and tr1ghtemng look at Amenca's Cold War and the cull of the atom. The Arom1c Cafe IS one of the most enterta1n1ng and diSturb­mg documentanes '"·recent years 01rectors Jayne Loader and Kev1n and P1erce Rattercy nave collected and JUxtaposed government and comrnerc1a1 footage mto an 1rOn1c mordant and passtonate po1em1c 
Apnt25 
Mean Streets 119731 

Martm Scorcese. USA color. 112 m1n Martm Scorcese·s l1rst feature casts Harvey Ke1tel and Robert De N~ro m New York·s Little Italy man explos1ve mrxture of the Malta. the Church and represseD VIOlence One of !he most 'mponanT and sem1nat films of the 1970s 

surgny. 
The IRA statement called Doyle a "token Catholic" in the prqvince's Protestant-dominated judiciary and said "his religion to us is irrelevant." 
"That ( Doyk) was prepared to ac­cept this post, knowing full well the political connotations, demonstrates all too clearly his wil­lingness to support fully the British and Loyalist establishments and the repression they create in order to survive and prosper," the IRA state­ment sa.d. 
Do~·lc's slaving raised the known death toll in Northern Ireland from more than I 5 years of sectarian and political bloodshed to at least 2.2~ 3. 
The IRA is fighting to end British rule in Northern lrdand, where Protestants outnumber Catholics 2­
to-1,  and  unite  it  with  the  
overwhelmingly  Catholic  Irish  
Republic.  


W alesa says h.e will try to regain c,ld job 
GDANSK, Poland ( AP) Solidarity leader Lech Walesa said he would try again t<)day to regain his electrician's job at the Lenin Shipyards where he founded the in­dependent union now outlawed hy the communist regime. 
But he said yesterday he might use some other tactic than showing up at the gates, where yard authorities turned him away Friday. 
"For obvious reasons, they don't want me," Walesa told reporters. "I have to think it over. I don't know where I'll go." 
Walesa, .39, accused authorities of using "special tactics" and erecting "administrative obstacles" against him. 
He claimed Polish law is "unequivocal" on his right to return to work at the shipyard, hut said management told him he first needed certification that he was not employed elsewhere and a state­ment on Solidarity finances. 
Walesa's efforts to go back to work have drawn no comment in the state-run news media, which has launched blistering personal attacks on him since his release from 1 I months ofinternment last Nov. 12. 
Walesa and his wife, Danuta, at­tended Mass twice yesterday once at the shipyard parish, St. Brygidas, and in the evening at St. Marys's where I0,000 people cheered him dudng a service for jailed Solidarity members. 
He did not address the throng hut received a three-minute ovation at the close of the ceremony -a high­ly unusual political gesture in a Roman Catholic church. 
Walesa's problems with the shipyard management arc part of a long and rocky relationship. He first got a job there in 1967, and joined a shipyard strike committee in 1970. 
He was tired after a strike in 19..,6. and in May 19'8 he helped found the Committee ofFree Trade Unions on the Baltic Coast. 
The first demand hf workers in the August 1980 shipyard strike, which led (() the creation of Solidarity, was joh reinstatement of Walesa and fellow activist Anna Walentynowicz. 
It was granted, and Walesa's leading role in that strike made him a symbol of worker's rights in Eastern Europe. 
Walesa legally remained a shipyard electrician during the stormy rise of Solidarity as the first and only independent labor m~e­ment in the East bloc. 
The union numbered almost 10 million members before it was suspended under the Dec. 13, I981 martial law decree. It was formally banned by Parliament last Oct. 8. Martial law was lifted late last mon1h. 

Brit. commartder hurt by mine in Falklands 
STANLEY, Falkland Islands (AP) A military spokesman said -The commander ofa British army Hambrook lost part of one leg and bomb disposal unit was seriously suffered injuries to the other leg in wounded when he stepped on an Ar-the explosion Saturday near Fox Bay gentine anti-personnel mine, the on West Falkland. military command reported yester-Hambrook was the sixth British day. soldier to he wounded by mines 
Press reports said Maj. Stephen since the fighting ended, the spokes­Hambrook, recipient of the George man reported. He said there have Medal for bravery, had briefed Prime been no casualties among the is­Minister Margaret Thatcher on the lands' civilians. 
Argentine mines during her five-day The mines were planted by Ar­tour of the Falkland Islands last gentine troops that seized the week. British colony April 2. 
I·-----------------------~ 
I I
Attention I 

I I I I
Photogra;phers

I I I I I~ObserYer~ openings for staff I I ~ alternate photographers. I I 
35 mm equipment ~ I 
I good ;B ~ W darkroom I I I
skills a must. 
I I I I I I I 
I 
To apply, contact Rachel Blount at I
I I 283-7959 or 2351-5343 I 
I I 
·------------------------· 
___J. 


·--------------~---------------------~--------~------.~-­

'l'he Observer Monday,January 17, 1983-page 5 ---·---·------·--·..--~ -------·----·---··-----------··--<r·-·-·-.·-·--·-·------­
Justice Dept. questions informant's credibility 
:\jE\X'ARK, :\j_). (AI') -Ju~tice volved in the Ahscam prosecutiom. lkpartment lawyer~ ~ent to ex-and has heen regarded a~ a key tlgure amine :\jew Jersey prosn:utors' in the t•ntire operation. The Justice complaints ahout the fBI's chief Department tried to corroborate Ahscam inti>rmant came away con-Weinberg's court te~timony with vinced he could not he trusted to tapes of politicians discussing and tell the truth. according to govern-accepting hrihe~. ment documents released to The As­
sociated Press. Critics ot Ahscun claim \X'ein­herg·s method of luring politicians
The documents. obtained In the 

AI' in a 20-month Freedom of In-with bribe money violated their ti>rmation Act ctfort. disclose new constitutional rights. lkfcnse attor­nn s repeatedly challenged \\'ein­
detaib of an internal Justice lkpart­herg·, credibility.
ment fight o\Tr the controversial Questions surroundingAhscam operation. 

\X'einherg·~ credibility aro~e during
The documcnb also quote one 

thl· :\hscam investigation of Ken­top Justice Department official as • saying FBI agents would not 
nl·th \lacDonald. vice chairman of cooperate with :\jew Jersey federal 
the ,:\jew Jersn· Casino Control prosecutors who questioned .\lacDonald was
Commission. in­Ahscam's tactics. 
dictt·d on charge~ of con~piracy and The undercover political corrup­
extortion; he died before hi~ trial. tion probe became public in 
The l·.s. attorney's office in February ll)HO, and has resulted in Pam lJaileJ' stands quiei/J' u•bile herhusband noug. Ohio, 011 the steps of /be courthouse Friday. 7be j{trm
:-.iewark had criticized Weinberg's 
the conviction of former l'.S. left, and her 1nother, right, cl.uml "no sale" to tr)' to INIS sold despite the chant hr 500farmers. (AP Photo)
failure to record kev conversations 
Senator Harrison \\'illiamsjr. of New pret•enl the foreclosure sale of their j{tnn in London, Jersey and six congressmen. Their in the MacDonald inquiry and his al­convictions are being appealed. leged acceptance of personal gifts 
Problems underlie relations
\!elvin Weinberg acted as the from other Abscam targets. chief undercover Ahscam operative The Justice Department sent after being granted a probationary members of its Public Integrity Sec­
Shultz to visit China Feb.-2-6
sentence for a ll)-:'~ mail fraud con-tion to Newark to review those oh-
PEKING (AP) -The impasse in government which Peking regards Shultz on the textile issue, hut I Chinese-l;.S. textile talks is expected as a renegade province. don't think it will work," said Peter to aggravate the trouhled agenda of The latest addition to Chinese-L:.s. ,\lurphy. the senior U.S. negotiator at Secretary of State (;eorge 1'. Shultz troubles came last week when hoth the stalled talks. It is unclear when
Turkish jet crashes, 
when he visits China early next sides failed to reach agreement in a the talks will resume. month. ti>Urth round of textile talks. China, a 
Shulu is expected to attempt to 

American quotas for textiles and major exporter of textiles, accused revive faltering China-l'.S. political
more than 40 killed 
other Chinese products, the defec­the l'.S. ofinsincerity and blackmail. 
relations, described hy foreignANKARA. Turkey (:\I') A hospitals, some asking ahout tion of a prominent Chinese tennis The l 'nited States decreed uni­diplomats as "in the doldrums" and Turkish Airlines jet carrying ()" pas· relatives and others offering to give star, l'.S. refusal to sell more technol­lateral import restrictions on 

by some Chinese ohservers as "gone sengers and crew members crashed blood. ogy to Peking's Communist govern­Chinese textiles in the ahsence of a 

sour. 

while landing in a snow storm ar Initial reports the ment and friendlier China-S<l\"iet new agreement to replace the one
said tlight 

Ankara's airport yesterday and at relations are also certain to he dis­that expired Ike. ~I. The restric­The China-Soviet talks and China's
originated either in Luxemhourg or 
least --10 people were killed, authori­Paris. officials said it a cussed during Shultz's visit Feh. 2-6. tions preserve the current level of denunciations of the l 'nited States as
hut wa~ 
ties reported. Another simmering problem Chinese exports htll do not permit a hegemonist have concerned some domestic tlight and virtually all of
They said 2 others were underlying basic China-l'.S. rela­increases. The Chinese side has l .S. policy makers ahout whether passengers
hospitalized and a few escaped with the were Turkish tions is Chinese anger over \X'a~hing­vowed to retaliate in unspecitled China may move closer to the Soviet only slight injuries. ton's continuing arms sales to ways. camp. China maintains it follows an
citizens. 

The semi-official Anatolia News Turkish Premier Bulent l'lusu and Taiwan. seat of the rival Nationalist "China might try to pressure independt·nt ti>reign policy course. Agency said the Boeing ~2..,, arriving Communications \linister .\lustafa from Istanbul with 60 passengers Aysan rushed to the scene to help 
and a crew of seven ~truck the edge oversee rescue effi>rts. of the runway and hroke into two sections. The rear section then hurst into names. it reported. 
Government officials said there were two foreign passengers aboard. 
• • • Plunge
One was listed as a British citizen and the other as a Romanian. hut fur­
continuedfrom page I 
ther identification was not availahlc. The officials said most of the sur­prison facilities in \lichigan; another 
vivors were rescued from the front spent two days living on the streets section of the craft. All of the crew ofSeattle. memhers -two pilots, a navigator Students, divided into small and four stewardes~ -were among groups of four or five, spent the rest 
the survivors, airport sources said. of the evening at a faculty or staff 
One of the dead was identitkd as memher's home exchanging ex­Prof Feyzi Feyzioglu, a memher of periences and insights about their the consultative assemhly es­plunges. tahlished hy Turkey's martial-law Professor Arthur Quigley noted, 

Throbbing head? 
Quaking body? Has Fast...Free

government. "the follow-up sessions are useful ­
Monday dealt another

State radio reported that the road as students talk ahout the prohlems 
Delivery
crushing blow? Revive

to Escnhoga Airport was closed to they have seen. I see solutions in 
yourself with a well­

traffic except for ambulances and of­their eyes." 
rounded meal from 
Call us. 

tlcial cars. It advised people with . "The problems of society will he 
Domino's Pizza. We'll 

relatives ahoard the plane not to go solved hy these middle-class stu­
help smooth the wrinkles 277-2151 

to the airport and to look for them at dents who went on l'rhan Plunges 
out of your day. 1835 S. Bend Ave. 

local hospitals. -not the rich and the poor," said 
Domino's Pizza Plaza 23 Center 

® Delivers.·· ti>r hlood donations. South Bend's northeast neighbor­
The radio also hroadcast appeals Quigley, who is active in organizing 
Open for lunch 
11 11 1 1  Only $7 49•  Fora 16" 1-item pizza plus 4 cups of Coke! Coupon value $2.25. (Tax not included.) Good Mondays only. Expires in 2 weeks.  II II I I  
I  ~,~  Fast, Free Delivery1835 S. Bend Ave.  I  
I  ·  Plaza 23 Center  I  
II ~  ., · Ulll=­ ®  Phone: 277·2151 Our drivers carry less than $20.00. ~9r;;g~12~~~very area.  I1 1 ~  




llundreds ofTurks lined up at city hood. 


CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS Applications for Student Activity Funds are now available at the Student Activities Office
' 

1st Floor LaFortune. The second semester allocation is designed to fund groups which either did not receive funds first semester, or in special cases, groups which were funded· who demonstrate additioni:J.I need. Deadline for applying is Friday, February 28. 
Ask about our party 11 am· 1am Sun.-Thurs. discounts. 11am-2am Fri. & Sat. 
©1983 Domino's Pizza. Inc. Coke/16 oz. cups 
r·····················-, 
L•••••••••••••••••••••.J 

The Observer Monday,January 17, 1983 page6 

White House negotiators walk hack to the BlairHouse across the street from the Wbite House late Saturdt~l' aftenzoon to continue meeting with the l>i-partisan commission in an attempt at reach­ing a compromise and shoring up the sagging Social Securitv Ad­ministration. rrom left are: Sen. Bob Dole, R-Kan., White Fiouse Chief ofStaffjames Baker 1/1, and Budget Director Oat•id Stock­man. (AP Photo) 
a a

e • • :t).
• ENGAGED? • 
Marriage Preparation is a diocesan requirement across the country 
Weekends still available: 
February 18-19; Apri I 8-9 
sign up at Campus Ministry­Badin Offices 

CC!Jl)PUS 

239-5242
m•mstry 

c.• !)• 
a a a a
• 

Contact Capt. Gomez, (219) 239-6635, about AFROTC at Notre Dame. 35 years on campus. 
BOTC 

Gateway to a great way of life. 
The Social Security plan 
Interest groups seek changes 
Wr\'>lll~<iTO~ (AI') -Pownful 1nrne~t groups 
pledged 1e'tcrday to seek change~ in a hiparti~an p!an 
li>r bailing out the '>ocial -.ecurit y ~y~tem. de~pite grudg­
ing ~upport lor the delicate package lrom Pre•.ident 
Reagan, congrt'~'ional kadt-r~ and a rl'li>rm commis­
'ion. 

OrganiLition~ repre.,enting retired people, gon-rn­ment workers and ~mall husine~s said they opposed some or all of the s I (>lJ billion package designed to keep Social Security solvent through 1990. Legislators and members of the Social Securit~ rdorm commission who drafted the plan acknowledged that gaining con­gressional approval will not he easy. 
After the reform commi~~ion voted 12-5 '>aturday night to acn·pt the package, Republican economist Alan (ireenspan, the pand chairman, said. "All of us swallowed very hard and accepted individual notion' that we personally did not actually support." 
President Reagan agreed"it includes elements which each of us could not support if they were not part of a bipartisan compromise." 
But the fight over the package may just be beginning. 
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Bob Dole, R­
Kan., said on NBC's" .'vleet the Press" that the legislation 
must pass Congress and he signed into law .'v1ay 7 so that 
the government can make the changes in benefit tables 
to retlect the proposed delay in the July cost-of-living 
increase. 

"There·~ no question that you cannot go from a piece of paper, which is basically what thi~ is, into legislative tiJrmat without hearing~. markup session~ in the Ways and :\1eans Committee and tht: -.enatt: Finance Commit­tee," Crreen~pan said on Cable ~t·w~ :'l:ctwork'~ 
"~ew~maker--.undal· ... 
The most UJiltrovcrsial provi,ions of the com­promist' indiltk a spenl-up in schnlulnl incrt·ases in the payroll tax. taxing benefits received hi' upper-and nnd<Jil·-incomt· retirees, a one-time ,;,..month delay in thi~ Juh ·, cost-of-li\·ing incrc1se and an expan~ion ol -.ocial -.ecurit~ <:overage to new tnleral employees start111g in 19H 1. 
.\lo Biller, pre~idt·nt of the 520,000-memher 
American Postal Worker~ Union, vowed a ~trong lobby­
ing campaign to drop the prm·i~ion bringing federal 
workers under ~ocial Security. 
AFI.-CI<) President Lane Kirkland, one of the reform 
commission members, supported the overall package, 
hut added he also opposed making coverage of federal 
employees mandatory. 
John E. Cosgrove, a spokesman for the Fund li>r Assur­
ing an Independent Retirement (FAIR), said the 26 na­
tional organization~ of federal and postal employee~ 
which belong to the group also would he lobbying 
against the provision. 
.\leanwhile, congressional leaders warned that the 
compromise plan cannot stand much tinkering. 
! 
Plan's impact ! to be felt in July 
\\'A-.111~(;-1'0~ ( :\1')-The tlrst impact of the Sl69 billion -.ocial Security rc~cnc plan endorsed h1· l're,i­delll Reagan and leader~ of Congress could be felt hv retiree~ this summer, while workers would start pa1 ing higher payroll taxes next January. 
The "extraordinary" compact, as Alan Grt-enspan called it after securing a 12-5 ratification vote by his :-.:ational Cnmmi~sion on '>ocial SecuritY Reform, will hail the old age tru~t fund out of the cri~is confronting it in the 19HOs by generating the S 169 billion in new revenues or savings over seven years. 
If Congre~s approves tht· deal the White llouse, the commission and congre,sional leaders struck -.aturJay night, virtually all l .S. taxpayers and retirees will par­ticipate in the hail ou1. Among those affected the mo~t would he: 
-the 56 million Social Security heneficiarie~. who instead of getting their cost-of-living hike in July, will have to wait until next January for the estimated '; per­cent benefit increase. The one-time, six-month delay would cost an averagt· recipient about S20 a month or S120 overall, hut more than 2 million elderly poor would be protected against the cut by liberalized welfare rules. Savings through 1989: S-fO billion. 
-Four million retirees and other Social Security recipienrs with adjusted gross incomes above S20,000 for individuals or S2'i,OOO for couples (not counting their Social St•curity) would have to pay income tax on halftheir benefits, starting in 198-f. The Treasury would funnel the proceeds back to the tru~t funds. Savings: S~0 billion. 
-The I I(, million l .S. taxpayers and their employers would pay stecpn payroll taxes in 19H 1. The <'urrent rate of(>.~ percent wa!'-not schedukd to rise until 198'i. hut the compromise would peg it at ~percent Ill"Xt Jan. 
I, with workers gl'tting a refundable income tax credit li>r 19H 1 only to oH~et the extra pavroll tax. 
The pa~-roll tax was already due to rise to -.o'i per­ccqt in 19H5 and -.I 5 percent in 19H6-H-, and that will not change. But in~tead of staying there until 1990, the compnnnise would push the tax to ~.';I in 19HH-H9 . The tax will hit -.6'; percent a~ already scheduled in 
1990. Savings: S-tO billion. 
-The 6 million self-employed, who now pay a 9.5S percent tax. will have to pay the combined employer­employee rate starting in 198-t of 1-t percent. But 'for the tir~t time they will be allowed to deduct one-halfthe payroll tax as a business expense. Savings: S 1 H billion. 
-All federal workers hired in ll)H-t or later would be brought into the system, as well as the remaining I'; percent of nonprollt organizations that are not now covered. Savings: S20 billion. 
-Defections by state and local governments would he banned as of tht· date the rescue legislation is enacted. Savings: s_; billion. 

Radioactive water leak 
Alert declared at Alab,ama plant 
ATHENS, Ala. (AP) -A site alert was declared yesterday at the Browns Ferry nuclear power plant after operators found that radioactive water had leaked into the Tennessee River twice in 12 hours. 
The amount of leaked radioactive water was not determined, but Ten­nessee Valley Authority spokesman Louis Gwin said trom TVAheadquar­ters in Knoxville, Tenn., there "was such a small amount released that it wouldn't pose a hazard to the public." 
The "site alert" warning is third behind "general emergency" and 
"site  emergency"  on  the  federal  
government's  ranking  of  nuclear  
power plant accidents.  

Browns Ferry, near this northern Alabama town, has three reactors. 
ATTENTION 
PREMED MAJORS 
NEED FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE? 
The Air Force needs doctors. So, we may help finance your college education with an Air Force ROTC scholarship. We have three and two-year AFROTC PreHealth Profes­
sions Scholarships for qualified applicants. These scholarships pay full tuition, lab and incidental fees, books, plus $100 a month (tax free) during the school year. Upon completion of Air Force ROTC and bac­calaureate degree requirements, you'll be commissioned as an Air Force second lieutenant. When accepted to medical school, additional assistance for medical school expenses is guaranteed with an Armed Forces Health Pro­
fessions Scholarship. 

Get together with an Air Force ROTC representative and discuss these two programs. It may be the most import­ant talk you've ever had about your future. 
The one that leakell and another had bt:en out of operation for main­tenance. The third was operating at 
full power and continued to operate after the alert was posted. Gwin said the TV A notified state 
officials and activated emergency control centers in Knoxville and Chattanooga in Tennessee and in Muscle Shoals, Ala. 
~---·coMPLETE--~ ~ BEAUTY ~ ~ SERVICE ~ 
~FASHION ~ ~ FLAIR ~ ~ BEAUTY~ ~a,,SALONj
. 
\ :1 . , *REDKIN ( ~ ._ , . SCIENTIFIC ~ ~ HAIR CARE CENTER~ ~ Precision Cutting, Perms, l 
\ Correcting Hair Coloring ~ 
~ Next to Cira's Restaurant i \ Evenings by Appt. ~ ~ 2009 M. . \ 
~ 1am1 ~ 
~ 288-0733 ~ 
.................~....,..
..,..~~·~-..~....,.., 


----.-----~-~-· --~-~~---------r_____,__...____ 
--~-. .. 
Editorials 
Monday,january 17, 1983-page 7 

Old stones and new 
We did it again this year. .\ly old high school friends and I, that is. 
For the fourth consecutive year, we all gathered on a frozen football t1eld, looking a rather motley collection, all clad in whatever regalia we could muster from days of athletic glory-gone-by. The rules have held up through four consecutive "seasons": tackle, no pads, and a real cold keg to nourish the 
survivors. Thefourth annual Toilet Bowl. 
Joe Musumeci 
looking In 
When, in the past, I have considered the value of tradition, our :-.lew Year's Eve Day ex· travaganza has always eluded examination. But thb year, I realized that this might well be my last, that I might never again feel the thrill of scoring a touchdown against people who aren't really trying to hurt me but are polite enough to appear to at least try .. 
WelL the Bowl took on a new meaning. I really wanted to win that one, and didn't even think about the keg until after the game was over. 
Recently I have begun to see my life as very transient, and I have begun to cling to things with some quality of permanence, to fear the temporary. The old ways, which have endured the test of time. and more important· ly, the trial of humanity's fickleness, have taken on a feel ofsecurity. 
While I was home in Washington, D.C. over Christmas break. I drove several timt:s past the .\lormon Temple in a suburb outside of town. Erected a few \Tars ago. it is a beautiful monu­ment to the fantasy of the soul, towering above the park like ;1 vision from Oz or C.S. l.nns' Ltbled land of '\arnia. 
The entire structure is erected in trans· 
lucent white marble that reflects and sometimes even refracts the light of the sun at any time ofday. The whole thing was built in a little more than four years. 
I also got a chance to visit the ;\;ational Cat­hedral on Wisconsin Avenue, just north ofEm­bassy Row. The grounds are neat, but the limestone is showing its age and the effects of weather, and the gargoyles have been breath· ing the smog from Capitol Hill just a little too long. Yes, the Cathedral is growing old. It was begun in 190"", and completed in 
Wait. That's right. It hasn't been completed. That's one ofthe most interesting things about the Cathedral. Begun more than V -t. of a cen­tury ago, construction still continues, slowly, as weather and availability of labor allow. The stonecutters came and went; they died, or found more work. 
.\lost die. 
There are precious few stonecutters left in i:he world, and almost none in America, who are up to the standards and scale of a cat· 
hedral. I was amazed, when visiting the catacombs beneath the building, to read the names of all the stonecutters who had spent their entire adult lives working on that one building. 
And the .\tormon Temple went up in four years. 
The Temple is a much more inspiring sight; it has an air ofunreality about it that transports one to another era, away from the daily con­cerns and irksome trials that we face. Long, long ago, in a galaxy far, far away 
The Cathedral is verv much a remnant of another time. Even when it was bq~un. it was an anachronism. a reminder that someplace back in the Dark Ages there was a tradition of architecture th;n held within it all the glory and angubh of exbtence under an unap­proachable (iod. In I <)0-. it looked like an avatar from the pas!. concealing secret~ long 

Executioner's defense 
\X'ith the Charlie Broob execution still fre~h in our minds, and the local controversy over a possible death sentence at the conclu­~ion ofthe Danny Cox trial, the cries ofprotest have once again risen against the practice of criminal execution~. 
Amidst this outcry. it is time to step back and take a more objective look at the ex­ecutioner's defense. 
Joseph Basque 
Double Take 
There are two reason~ for punishmelll rehabilitation and deterrence. When a criminal is dealt one or more consecutive life term~ for a brutal murder or rape, the purpo~e of his imprisonment i~ not to rehabilitate hun and put him back into societv. 
A casual visit with some of the mort; than 1 I 00 people on dt·ath row would probably reveal to even the most adamem objector that these are not the baby-faced, mi~understood boys and girb that thev are made out to be. 
They are cold-blooded murderers and rapists that can never be safely rdnstated into societv. .\!any are repeat offenders who have become more violent after each prison release. Agood example of this is David Cox. a past criminal currently accused ofbeing hired to murder a local businessman. 
Unfortunatelv, the victims are often >,F.nored as the public focuses on the death ~t"•nence itself. The nimc suddenly becomes tns.gi11l!Cllll. torgotten are the •nnocent 
peopl<: whose li,·es have been sl1attered lw 
someone  else·~  brutalitv and whose  justice  
has  been  rejected by  a  public  that  would  
rather protect the offender.  

An examination of these criminals leaves us with no hope nt rehabilitating them. \X'e are then left with two choice~: caging tht·m iikc animab until the,· die, or executing them in hopes that it will deter others from commit· ting a similar crime. 
A popular complaint is that the death penalty has never been shown to he an ef. fective deterrent. The fact is that executions have been so ~parse in recent years that it is impossible to make an accurate judgment as to its effectiveness. 
Furthermore, a true assessment is heavih· clouded by other factors, such as JUdicial leniency in the forms of insanity pleas, plea bargain in g. and incredibly lengthy and ex­ten~ive legal maneuvering needed to carry out a death ~entence. 
As long as tht· death penalty continues to he legally stagnated, it will not be able to achieve its potential as a deterrent. One thing is cer­tain -not carrying out a threatened punish­ment b a far less effective deterrent. 
It is .1 shame that we must resort to the death penalty at aiL but the situation ha~ forced itself upon u~. It is time ti>r the op· ponents of the death penalty to look ob­jectively at the problem. 
The ueath pen.dt,· mav not be a prett\· solution. hut unt ,l the objector~ can come up with a more viable and realistic alternative, the defense shall rest in favor of the ex­ecutioner. 

forgotten; today, it seems more a tired old prophet wailing too softly for any to hear: "I told vou so." 
I was in the Temple a few years back, just bef()re it was dedicated. That was the only time we (The t:nsaved) were allowed to enter the actual Temple. It was beautiful, clean and bright. 1suppose the .\tormons want to keep it that way. ~o one is allowed in anymore. 
Though the consecration was long ago, the Cathedral is still host to hundreds of visitors every day. They wander through, and take in as much of the grandeur and history as they can; occasionally one comes across someone standing motionless, trying to take in all ofone of the stained glass windows. It's not possible. .\1ost people leave a donation in one of the baskets as they leave; after wandering through a place like that while it's still alive, one wants to be a part of it . 
While it's still alive. 
The :\1ormon Temple died several years ago. :\ot just because most people aren't allowed inside anymore. :\lore than that, death was due simply to cessation of life. The :\lormon Temple is too tlnished; it will never be any more than it is now -only less. But every day, when the sun rises on the Cat· hedral, there is something new: a stone face, a keystone, the foundation for a new tower. 
Someday, too, the Cathedral will be dead. 
Parts of it are already dying. 
And parts are being born. 
People are often much like buildings. Good buildings, anyway. The Cathedral helps me cope with the idea of leaving Notre Dame, of leaving anything. l would like to think that I can be much like the grand old prophet. When they pu:i out the cornerstone, I will smile and whisper, "I told you so." 
. ..And raise a new tower. 


Ihe~rver============ Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, .\'utre Dame, 1.\' -i6556 
Editor-in-Chief........,....................Michael Monk BusinessManager.............................Tony Aiello
The Obserl'er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Cni­
Managing Editor ........... ... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller............................................. Eric Schulz
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint C\olary's College It does not necessarily ret1ect 
Executive .Vews Editor .............. David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eit'ler institution. The news is reported as ac­
Sli1C Executive Editor.............\iargaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as ohjectivelv as possible. Cnsigned editoriab represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor.... . .................. Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majoritv of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters..and the Imide Column depict 
Editorials Editor ... ......................... Paul McGinn Systems Manager ......... : ................. Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to Jllmtmber~ ofthe communitv, 
Features Editor ............. ....... Joseph Musumeci
and rhe tree expression ofvarymgopinions on carnpus, through letter~. is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ........... ,........ .. ..... Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1965' 
(219)239·5303 
~~--~~--..~~~~-,--~~~------~-------~----------~ ------~~----------~------------------~------~----~----~--~--~-------­
-~SH0 W C ~~iiiiSiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiioiiindiiayii,Jiianuiiaryiiiiil7ii,lii98ii3iipiiiiagiiiieii8 
HCA: the battle against loneliness 
I
t's hard I(Jr me to believe that a Wehsters always end breakfast with plan offour years ago to enter law year ha~ passed since I walked into a reading from tht· Bible . .\1y hour school alh-r college graduation. Yet. Volunteer Service~ asking for an ap­spent with them invigorates me I(Jr I know I have chosen the right path. plication I(Jr Holy Cros~ Associates. the coming dav. The program originally appealed to Being an A~sociate has not drasti­me hecau~e it was multi-htt-c:ted. It I 0 a.m. -While my time with the cally changed my life. I suppose combined service \Vith community Websters warms rny ht·art, the next graduating from college did that. As and spirituality. Other programs that hour is one in which mv inner selfis an Asso>eiate I have learned that per­I had investigated did not han· the torn apart. I hdp bathe a 60-year-old sonal growth occurs just a~ much (if samt· balance or depth that HCA ha~. woman who has had part ofher not more) when I reach outward. ,\ly first two months as an Associate brain removed becaust' ofa staff in­Collt:)!.t' was 1ery much of an mward have been so good that I thought it ti:ction. ~he has lo't the ahilitv to time for mt·. would be well\!.orth the time spent comprehend, to speak. to do f(>r her­
self. Only the ability to scream As students. we are allowed to
m.J. ffiuttay remains. Though at first the scream­pick our schedules. choose whether ing was eerie. it occurs so olin that I to go to clas:,, and decide with whom have grown a.~ accustomed to it as to we want to spend our time. rb an As t the ticking ofa clock. I halT come to sociate. I cannot whimsicaly opt to
feGtures recogn i;re the value of her scream­stay in bed imtead .,,-fixing breakfast ing; it's her way of u>mmunicating. t(H the \Xehsters; tht·~ are depend­writing thi~ article to let other~ 
know more about the program. I do ent upon mY being there. Yet. as the I p.m. -I end mv day hy visiting an 
days go on I become aware ofJll_)'this because during my application elderly woman who is in her 

period I felt that I could never grasp dependency on them and all the 
e1ghties. and who has beeen strid.en 
other people whom I help. Each d<t)'

what the service dimension of the 
with a potpourri ofdiseases. The they reini(Jrce 1111 decision to he anIICA was all about llopefully the 
doctors cannot even agree on what 
Associate. It is a once-in-a-lifetime

ldlwing will give others some un­
aib her. She has lwen diaw10sed as 
chance. Banks and graduate schoolsderstandinng oft he day-to-day life of having leukemia, chronic heart 

will he there a year from no\\; mar11·at least one Associate. 

failure. diahet<.:s. and anemia. Per­
of the people whom I help prohabh·haps hn biggest enem1· is loneliness. 

will not.

Friday, SejJ/f!lllber 2·1 
The battle against lon~liness is 
Already my firM month working something ninety-nine percent of Choosing to become an Associate
for llomemaker Services in 
our clients have to light davin and is a diftlcult decision to make. espe­Colorado ~prings has passed hy. 
day out. I am beginning to believe it cially at schools such as'\; D/S.\IC
I lomemaker Services provides care is more ofa killer than cancer. Her where there is so much pressure to for those people who art· sic1-; and/or life re1·olves around her dog Fitz and choose a traditional route upon
elderly. The goal of llonwmaker is to 
her dai11· visits from <lur agency graduating. There is no right reason 
provide enough care for people in 
t<Jr becoming an Associate. I have the cornt(Ht of their own home so At the end ofevery we~k I am 

Yet to hear t\VO people respond with that they are not forced to move into emotionally, mentally, anJ physical­identical answers to the question: a nursing home or hospital. ly exhaustnl. I understand why (;od 

'"\X'Ill did n>u choose IICAl" For me 

8 a.m. -As I haVt· t(Jr the pre1·ious created the Sabbath; rest i:.n<H only 
the opportunity to help people

.~0 days I began my morning hy help· wanted, hut necessary. El-en though who~e lives are different than mv 
ing :\lr. and .\Irs. Webster. The I feel exhausted, deep down inside own was appealing. I hoped that Wehsters. a charming couple in there is a sense of joy. a feeling 
through this type ofservice the 

their mid-HO's, just proudly which tells me I'm growing and 
uniqueness that (;od gave to each in­celebrated their (JIst wedding an­being challenged in way.~ I never dividual would become more tan­

niver.~arv. Mrs. \\'ehster has severe thought possible. While many 
gible to me. I suppose there are 

arthritis. while .\lr. Webster has a people and experiences during my many ways to do this. hut none bad leg; their illnesses make them a four years at Saint Mary's helped 
suited me as well as the As~ociates. 

two-walker family. I tlx their break­guitk me to the Associate program, 
fast, do light housekeeping, and help my formal education in business did 
So, take time out from classwork, .\lrs. Webster with a sponge hath. not prepare me l(>r this roll. In faet, football games, ami the usual panic This weekend has heen special for nothing I have ever done has ofsenior year to consider Holy the Websters, because their prepared me t(Jr this type of work Cross Associate~. I firmly believe grandson from Virginia has been with the elderly. I tind mysdf asking one would he hard pressed to tlnd a visiting them; this has helped Mrs. the question: How did I ever end up 
former or present Associate who did Webster I(Hget the constant pain she in Colorado Springs as a Holy Cross not think the experience well worth feels in her knees and shoulders. The Associate' This is a far cry from my it. 
Gentlefolk, stt\ttyour sonnets 
"shall I compare thee to a sum- courses in the past few years ­ in  ber~. Contest judges include  fman stated. "An original sonnet  haps, hut not impossible ifone  
mer's d..1y'  those classes, l'vt· introduced stu­ Assistant Professor of English Sonia  makes a great Valentine's Day  remembers what, in Hoffman's view.  
Thou art more lovely and more tem­ dents tG sonnets. and the way in  Gernes (who has recently been  present1" Additionally, Robinson  is the most enduring quality of  
perate:  which they express a lot in a limited  nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for  mentioned the challenge involved  Shakespeare's sonnets: the fact that  
Rough winds do shake the darling  form. I held a sonnet writing contest  her late~t novel), English Professor  in writing a sonnt·t -"to say as  
buds of :\1ay.  in class, in which the sonnets that  john Matthias. and Professor  much as Shakespeare did in fourteen  " ...the feelings in them are still  
And summer's lease hath all too  students submitted were read aloud  Emeritus of Engli~h Ernest Sandeen  lines." A formidable challenge, per- valid for the way we feel today."  
short a date:..."  either in class or at my home. The  (both Matthias and Sandeen are  
Carol Camp  students then voted to determine the sonnet that they liked the best, and !usually took the winner to  well-known poets). Prizes for the three winning entries are: twenty­five dollars l()r first place and  
lunch."  publication in the spring issue ofthe  
feGtures  When the Shakespeare Club was organized at the beginning oflast  jugp,ler, fifteen dollars l()r second place. and ten dollars for third. Addi­ 
The preceding quatrain with  semester, ideas for several possible  tionally, the winning entries will be  
which William Shakespeare began  club activities, (including a sonnet  published in a future issue of  
his 18th sonnet, does not refer to  writing contest), were suggested.  Scholastic magazine.  
South Bend's snowy weather; rather,  Becam.e graduate student Carla Hof­ Becaus<~ the themes of the  
it is a young man's attempt to  fman took the initiative, the contest  majority ofShakespeare's sonnets  
express his deepest feelings for his  was organized.  pertain to love and romance, the  
ladylove.  The contest rules are few and  winners of the sonnet contest will  
for centuries. the sonnets of Wil­ simple: the competition is open to  be announced on Valentine's Day  
liam Shakespeare have been recited  all members of the Notre Dame­ (Monday, February 14) in an open  
by young suitors in order to win the  Saint Mary's community, and anyone  poetry reading which will be held in  
hands offair and beautiful maidens.  can submit a maximum of three  the faculty lounge (located on the  
In the interest ofpreserving this  entries for consideration. Although  third floor ofO'Shaughnessy Hall).  
romantic tradition, the Notre Dame  contest chairman Hoffman recom­ Everyone is invited not only to at­ 
Shakespeare Club is sponsoring a  mends the use of the Elizabethan •  tend the celebration, hut is also en­ 
sonnet writing contest inwhich the  style (also known as the 8-6 forma­ couraged ro bring along a favorite  
deadline for entries has been ex­ tion), she also encourages the sub­ sonnet, original or not, to share with  
tended until Tuesday, February 1.  mission of modern interpretations  the group. In the spirit ofthe day, the  
According to English Professor  of the sonnet form.  readings will he conducted ~y  
james Robison,  An added feature of the contest is  candlelight.  
"The idea for the contest came  that the entries will be judged by a  Both Hoffman and Professor  
from some other experiences I've  distinguished panel which is com- Robinson encourage those who are  
l'f1!-:c'":~--~~ had in my Major British Writers  .-prised-of Notre Dame facutry mem­ interested to participate, for as Hof­ 



Thv Obsvrvvr Fvaturvs Svction 
Monday, January 17, 1983-page 9 

Psst... need n book? 
I
t was the worst of times. it wa~ the worst of times. People were poverty-stricken and despairing. l myselhvas down to my last dollar or so. and like everyone else. l wa~ forced to pinch every penny l had, although quarters were still delegated to games of Missile Command. Out on the sidewalks. people were anguished. 
"What am l going to do~" cried out one young man as he tore out his hair. "I have no more money' l have been driven to tlnancial ruin' l hate this cruel world' l hate it. I hate it. l I L\TE IT''" 
ffiGtc Rnmitez 
features 
'>uch was the -<itu.!lton during these frustrateutim~·'· Penniles~ and now quartt·rkss as well. l had to learn how to liH.' without the convenit·nces of junk I(Hld, video games. parties. and Oakburgers. l searchnl my wallet in vain li>r that one dollar hill that l had perhaps hidden 'tllnewhere. :\one was to be found. 
What w;ts it that had vacuumed us all ofour money' Was it a modern Depre.;sion' Had the mighty book­keepers clt-aned up on taXl''' Had we been li>rcnl to spend until the shehe' Wt:rl·empty' 
Yes. 1 es. yes. 

It waited there in the '>outh Quad. waited because it kn.:w we had to come. and within its sinister gut the registers. though full. still ached l(>r more. 
It was hungn· for our legal tender. 

The Bookstore. with its friendly facade of trees. sat there. well aware ofits power. It was the neighborhood bully. it was :\Ia Bell. it was Boardwalk and Park Place with hotels. :\o matter how you rolled the dice. even­tuallv you had to lam! thert·. 
We trit-d to plot again.'>t it. \leeung~ were hcid at night. preterahl~ in basements. The chairman -,poke. "llo\\ many of you arc out of 
money~-­
\lost of us raised our hands. .. -\nd how mam· of 1 ou have bought all of your hooks?" 
:\om· of W• raised our hands. "What we need to lind." he said. "is a nil·e. cheap place to purchase our textbouks. Any suggestions'" 
"1\.-\lart'" someone !>houted. 
"Pandora's'" another voice said. 

"Ps!>st. Ever thought about tht• Black \larket"' someone in a trenchcoat whispered. "It's a little dan­gerous, but if you·n· willing to take the risk ..... 
The room became alive with di!>cussion, and finally 1\.-.\lart was ruled out. Pandora's was abandoned, and l volunteered bravelv to sample the Black .\larketl(>r textbooks. 
The l(>g was thicker than U!>ual the night l met with mv friendly Black .\larket reprt·sentative. We were !>cheduled to meet behind the Arkie Building. and I waited impatiently t(>r him to arril-e. The waves ofSt. .Jmeph's Lake heat gently against the shores oftht· :--Jotre Dame campus. and once again l checked my timepiece. _lust then. l ht·ard a voice. 
"I lev. Bud." It cune from behind, and l turned to see 
the tallligure clad in a trt·nchcoat and Humphrey 
Bogart hat. 
.. \\'ho. me'" l -,aid. 

"Yeah. vou. <:·mere." answered them~ stcrious man, his face hidden hv the l.trgc. upturnnl collar ofhis coat. "Ya want some hooks or whati" 
"l h. yeah. l do," l answered. "Which ones·~ l got 'em all. Trust me. lleb beb beb," the low voict: snickered. 
We negotiated li>r !>en-ral minutes until! had nearlv all of my books l(,r a substantially lower price than the Bookstore would have charged. although the amount wa!> still high. However. he wanted an outrageou~ sum for a Finance hook. 
"That's an outrageous sum for a Finance hook!" l screamed. outraged. 'Til just go to Pandora's and get it used." 
"You can't Ref it used," he chuckled diabolically. lle opened the front of the book and pointed out the l9H5 copyright. !lis laughter seemed to echo across the entire campus. "Twenty-six bucks... he said. 
It was only a dollar less than the bookstore price, hut 
'>till a better deal. We parted quieti\·. both feeling as if 
we had gotten the better end of the exchange. 
It wasn't until las! Friday that l began to wonder if maybe the bookstore had actually come out on top again. While searching for a hook that l had neglected to purchase that eerie evening by the lake. l happened to wander pa!>t the bookstore manager's oflice. an offict· I'd passed many times hcti>re. The manager sat working at his desk. and when he glann.d up. he saw me watch­ing and !>miled at me. lie looked familiar..\laybe too faq1iliar. As l walked away. l noticed the trenchcoat and the hat hanging on the rack in the corner. 
Strange. I'd nevt:r noticed them beti>re. 

Juggulnt: on the wny up 
W 
hile almost even·one was spending their Saturday night elsewhere. a band called juggular treated about thirty well-int(>rmed people to a competent set of jazz rock compositions in the Chautau­qua ballroom. The special feature of thbseven man band from Chicago is not just the mu~ic; it is the fact that one ofthe band nll:rnhers dmtbled as a juggler and perl(mned various jug­gling feat~ throughout the majority of the concert. 
Pat Beaudine 
music review 

This unique approach was evident from the start oftheir tirst set and al· though the tirst two songs were not instantly captivating, many aspects of the band emerged. First ofall, it was apparent thar tht?y really enjoyed what thev were doing, which is alw.Iy!> !mportant to the audience. Thn· ;uso rrovcd thev had a fair amount ol dur;tl ter. play.ing a high spirited show hdore a dis­sappointing turnout Their high sptrit was emphasized with the third 
song. "~cwton's f;roc>ve." a high­,tght of the !>et which t:itckcd he­cause of Dave l'oik\ t'~ll hv saxophone t'lay::-.!~-Th.: f,>llow-ups maintained tht." qu.ili<v ol that ~ong and even inch11kd a vocal number called, "Crossfire·." h~ lead guitarist 
and vocalist Da.vt' Ieref It was not 
much ofa lyrk·a: ~·r -.,.c ll achieve­
ment, hut the mw.lt: wd~ '>till good 
and that·~ what ·'·..ti0¥)1>• .important. .,· 
"Pork Chops," a couple numbers 
later, closed the set by showcasing 
Dave Polk's nifty saxophone solo 
which carried the song and deser­
vedly drew a round ofapplause by 
the attentive audience. 
After a brief interlude, they took the stage again and h1· the third song. "Thre!>hold," they rt."allv hit their !>tride. It wa!> another vocal number which outclassed the tirst with a good horn performanct:: and a better vocal performance by Lend The fourth song, "Road \lagic," included 

some good juggling by Kim :\lcDan­nel and the follower, "Fading Away," emphasized the talents ofRich Lapka on trombone while gradually leading to the climax of the evening that would come two :.ongs later. "'lusty Pumpkinseed," was a group juggle number as lilllr hand mem­bers put down their instrument!> and did some commendable choreographed juggling of their own. The song that came after. "Sweet Lucy." wa~ the true showcase of the evening that com­manded every listener's complete attention and garnered abundant ap­plause at the tinish. It started with a good keyboard sole by David Ge:o.­sner and gradually included the rhythm section of Dave Farley and Rich Trelease and the horn section of Polk and Lapka. The fervor in­creased with the interplay between tenor sax and trombone and the song showedJuggular at its spon­taneous best .. 
At the show's close a couple of songs later, it was clear that the hand had its share of talent and a respect­.Iblc collection ofgood :.ongs. However. a couple of tlh: songs just did not click ,;:1d were too un­focused in their direction, ( whtch was a small problem all evening). Also, the1r sound might lean too much on rock t<n· jau bn:.· tastes and might seem roo jaZZ\ lor stmple rock fans. Other than that,Juggular, at its bc·st can he viewed as a very com­petellt b;md with potemialthat could carry them p:tsr the dubs of Chicago and the d:•.rKe tloors of wrious univcr~iut·•. 
NOT nn inttoduction 
I
ntroductions are the stuff ofwhich bad tirst impressions often are made. Generally short and almost necessarily incomplete, they tend only to postpone more meaningful communication. 
l hate introductions. 
This being the tirst in what is planned to be a series of weekly Features column!>, lam a victim of an unhappy conflict between cir­cum!>tance and preference. The situation clearly calb li>r some sort of introduction. 
Columns introducing writers to audiences tend to he bumbling ef­1\>rts proclaiming noble purposes and meager talents. Prderring not to bumble. make false promises or feign humility. l determined that l would not write an introductory column. 
Bruce Oakley 
out on a limb 

I hit upon the grand ilka of writing .1 brnn:ll column. The piece would he an interesting exercise in creativity -I would need to devdop tht: outlook of a seasoned vett::ran of the print medium looking toward retirement. I would need to draw on a wealth ofhalf­rememht:red tales and best-forgotten writings, all of which would then need to he woven into some coherent summary of noble purposes and meager talents. 
As l began to write my brewell. ideas !lowed easilv. l wrote about time-< when idea., were hard to come by, and about time!> when good idea!> painstakingly pre!>ented were misunderstood. But with the wtsdom nf hindsight enhanced by vast experience. l advised my t;trewdl audience that those moments offrustration were more than counterbalanced by those occasions when a reader called or wrote to compliment my work. 
l captured the idea in a neat little phrase. somewhat twbted from the original: "An ounce of praise is worth tons ofcontention." 
That hit of verbiage led mv imaginary veteran columnist into a· recollection from hi!> "undergraduate davs." The time frame was deliberately indelinite -I wanted to create the impression ofage looking hack on lost n>uth. speaking a timeless message. 
I recalled a project from a writing class in which the students were to write an introduction "To the Reader... explaining the direction and l(>rm their 'l'mester's work would take. 
One young woman in the cla!>s wrote: 
"Why do I need you; You will mi~take my meaning and criticize 1111· eft(>rt You will not understand. but neither will you approve. Why do l need you~" 
l had been offended by the apparent tone ofthb passage. and had scribbled an unqualilied re!>ponse "To the Writer" into a notebook: 
"I certainly don't need you'" 
The inLident ha~ stayed with me. because l realized then that readers could quite h;ippilv ignore my noble purposes. particularly if l demonstrated meager talents. l realized then the essential loneli­ness of the writer. 
Loneline!>s i~ an easy thing to remember -perhaps too easy 
Indeed. after years of rellecrion on that particular introduction. Ill\' interpretation ofit ha!> undergone a strange metamorphosb. The "veteran" writer in me recognizes that my knee-jerk reaction proved the woman's point -readers will not understand. even as l did not understand then. Her statement was not one ofdetiance or ar­rogance, hut one of bittersweet acknowledgement ofa truly neces­sarv interdependence of writer and reader. She was beginning a painful !>earch to understand a troubled. hut unavoidable union. 
l wrote in my farewell column of all of these things. capturing the idea in a neat little phrase: "\\'nting is an exercise in lonely inter­dependence." 
l was troubled by this, however. Writing about writing always seemed an easy way out to me -a wordy admission that l really had nothing prot(>und to say at the moment 
!tooka second look at my farewell column. l noticed it wasabout an introduction. l took a third look. l realized it was an introduction. You know -noble talents, meager purposes, necessarily incom­plete. 
Writing about writing at leaM makes the writer attentive to his work. 
And intrc'lliuu ion~ are inevitable. 
Nice to meet you. 

-j 
r~-·--·------·-------~~-------~------------------------­

f 
t 
Sports=B=r=i=e~t:.::s:.===~==================M=o=nct=ay='=Ja=nu=a=ry=I=7=,1=9s=3===p=ag=e==1o 
lh the r!hserl'er and /be .-tssf'ciated l're~s 
Miami, Dallas win 
The ND men's fencing team swept all seven 
matches in a week-long tour of the East Coast that ended Saturday 
Super Bowl tourney down to four 
and includcd stops at .\1IT, Harvard. Princeton, NYl', Columbia, 
Penn State and thc University of Pennsylvania. Freshman jan 
By The Associated Press 
Tivenius was undoubtedly the star ofthe trip. compiling a 16-0 slatc 
for Mike DeCicco's Irish. Meanwhile, the women's fencing team .\1iami shut down San Diego's finished its tour at S-2. Next weekend, both squads travcl to Wayne vaunted otlense and buried the 
State to face Northwestern, Michigan State and the host school, the Chargers 34-13 to advance to the defcnding NCAA champions. -The Observer American Conference finals and Dal­
las outlasted Green Bay 37-26 in a In tile pro ranks last night, there were tour games on 
wide-open :'-Jational Conference tap in the NHL and three in the NHA. In hockey, Philadelphia shut out 
game in the :"1/ational Football the N.Y. Rangers, 4-0; New Jersey topped Los Angeles, S-3; Chicago 
League playoffs yesterday. got past Detroit, 4-2; and Vancouver beat Winnipeg, 6-4..\1eanwhile 
With their victory, the Dolphins in basketball, Milwaukee edged Golden State, I 09-1 OH; Utah 
advanced to next Sunday's AFC squeaked past San Diego, 115-111; and slumping Seattle finally won, 
championship game against the New beating Kansas City, 1 I 1-96. -The Obsen;er 
York Jets, who beat the Los Angeles 
Raiders 17-14 Saturday. The Cow­
boys will play in the NFC champion­
ship game next Saturday against the will hold a mandatory meeting tonightat 6 in the basement ofLewis 
The ND women's fastpitch softball club 
Washington Redskins, 21-7 victors Saturday over the Minnesota Vikings. 
Next week's winners will play in Super Howl XVII in Pasadena, Calif., onJan. 30. 
The Dolphins took advantage of an early wave ofSan Diego turnovers and rode David Woodley's two touchdown passes and a relentless ground game to victory over the Chargers. 
Wooley completed 17 of 22 passes for 195 yards, while San Diego quarterback Dan Fouts, under pressure:: from start to tlnish, hit on 1 S of 34 attempts for 191 yards. He was intercepted five times and sacked three times for 23 yards in losses in his worst game of the season. 
The Dolphins grabbed a 2-t-0 lead. thanks to an interception hy corner­hack <ierald Small ofa Fouts pass and consecutive kickoff fumbles by Hank Hauer and James Brooks, and never allowed San Dit:go to threaten them seriously. 
Dallas struck for 14 tlrst-half points in 14 seconds hut needed quarterback Danny White's fourth­quarter touchdown pass and Drew Pearson's surprise bomb to Tony Hill to beat the Packers. 
Saturday's Results Notre Dame 59, Marquette 57 
Notre Dame (59) 

Hall. All those who have already signed up and any others who are 
M FG-A FT -A R F P

interested in playing are urged to attend. If there any questions, con­
Andree 27 2-3 0-0 7 2 4 

tact Chris Callahan at 3H4-. -The Obsen•er 
Varner 34 2-5 0-0 3 1 4 Barlow 12 1-2 0-0 1 4 2 
• • • Tide 
Paxson 38 9-15 2-4 2 1 20 Pnce 16 1-3 0-0 1 3 2 

All students are invitedto participate in an eight­
continuedfrom page 16
week Winter Agility and Quickness Program starting today. This rigorous workout will include quickness and agilitv drills, along with said DiStanislao. "We had a good 
stretching exercises. Workouts will be held on Mondays, Thursdays gameplan -we were able to hold 
and Fridays from 4 to 6 p.m. during the eight-week session. If you their stars (Cassandra) Crumpton 
plan on participating, please attend the first workout today at 3:45 and (Terri I Hillard below their 
p.m. in the ACC Pit. -The Obsen•er 

average~. hut she picked up the slack ami then some." Notre Dame nearly let the game slip away earlic:. as Irish mistakes
The NVA office has announced deadlines tor entries ror 
allowed 'llama to annex a !()-point 
some spring semester sports. Wednesday. Jan. 19 is the deadline for lead in the latter stages of the tlrst 
both men's and women's vollevba!L The deadline for doublt's rac­half. Hillard, rattled by a rowdy 
quetball and doubles handball .is Thursday Jan. 20. The office also 
group of students seated to the left 
made some additional announcements. The tennis clinic continues ot the Alabama bucket, mio;sed her 
tomorrow and Thursday from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. featuring Scott fourth of tive charity tosses with a 
Ford. For more information call 239-6100. Cross-country ski rentals minute leti and the Irish. with a 6-2 
are available again this year. Call 239-6100 tor more details. Finally, 
~tretch, were able to pare the 
aerobic exercises will be held on .\!on days and Wednesdays at ·-1: I 0 Alabama halftime advantage to six. 
in the ACC beginning today. -Tbe Ohsen•er 
Sduteth scored six of her ten points to k.~-c:p Notre Dame within shouting distance. and :Vlan·ey canned a jumper from the frt.e
The Notre Dame Boxing Club announces 
throw line to put the Irish as dose as 
that practice for the I ~3 Bengal Bouts has started. Practice is from 
they would get. ·-19·-t-!, before 
.'>:30 p.m. to 'i:30 p.m. \londa' through Friday. Anyone who is in­Smith's thret·-point play. 
terested is welcome. :'\o prior experience b rcquired. -!be 0/J­\latvey and Schueth were the on­
serl'er 

tv lrbh women to score in double tigures. \latvey checking in with a team-high 12. 
DiStanislao used ten playcrs. butThe Saint Mary's intramuralbasketball league :'-Jotre Damt·'s superior depth never 
starts onJanuary 31. Team rosters and an entry fee of S I are due hy 'i became a factor as it was unable to 
p.m. today. The league is open to all Saint \Ian-'s '>ludents. ~taff, 
tlnd a combination that could wrest 
faculty and adminbtrators. -The 0/Jsen·er control of the game. Tide coach Ken Wt·ek~ used only seven players (the two subs played a total of three minutes), and none of his five start­
The Windsurfing Club will hold signups for Ies­
ers ever got into foul trouble. ~ons tomorrm.v and Wednesday as part of the Free l'niversity 
"lused every timeout telling them program. Signups will take place from 6 to 9 p.m. both nights in the 
that we had to draw fouls on their Lafortune Ballroom. -The Obsen·er 
key players." ~aid DiStanislao. "We hat! to go in~idc and we didn't. 
Kempton 19 2-4 3-4 8 0 7 "And there was no lack of ability Sluby 26 3-4 5-6 5 4 11 Dolan I 9 3·6 0-1 2 3 6
keeping us from executing that part 
Duff 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0

of the game plan. We were just out­
Rowan 2 0-0 1-2 0 1 

hustled." 
Rucker 2 1-2 0-0 0 2 IRISH ITEMS -Alabama's win Buchanan 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 wasn't just the first Tide victory in 
200 24-44 11-17 32 18 59 FG Pet 545 FT Pet -647 Team

women's basketball over Notre 
rebounds -3 Turnovers -20 Ass1sts -I 0 

Dame -ir was rhe first time ever an 
(Paxson. Dolan 3) Techn1cals-None Irish team had lost to Alabama in any Marquette (57) M FG-A FT -A R F P
sport . _..The loss was Notrc 
D Johnson 38 5-11 4-8 7 1 14

Dame's first against a non-Top 20 
Marotta 36 1-4 4-4 4 4 6 

team ... .The Irish women musr­
Schlund! 40 4-6 2-2 3 2 10 regroup, then face a pair of Midwest M Johnson 11 0-1 2-2 1 I 2 Rtvers 40 9·17 0-0 0 4 1 8 
foes next week. Detroit comes .in 
Reason 24 3-8 1-3 2 5 7

Friday night at 7:50 and Illinois­
Trotter 11 0-2 0-0 3 1 0 Chicago will provide the opposition 200 22-49 13-19 20 18 57 in next Sunday's afternoon clash. FG Pet 449 FT Pet -684 Team rebounds -1 Turnovers -12 Ass1sts -15 (R1vers. Reason 4) Tecnntcals-None Alabama women (71) Halftime · Notre Dame 31. Marquette 26 M FG-A FT-A' R-F P Off1ctals -R1ch Weller. Ph1l Robmson. Phil Crumpton 40 6-1 4 1-1 1 0 3 13 Bova (all B1g 1 0) A-11.052 (c) Hillard 40 4-14 2-7 12 4 10 Smith 38 14-22 1-2 8 3 .29 
IRISH ITEMS -Lafayette comes 

Kelso 39 2-6 4-7 4 2 8 
to town tonight for an H p.m. ~tart.

Leonard 40 3-6 3-4 5 0 9 Timmerman 2 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 The Leopards are ·t-H after their 69­Bryant 1 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 61 los~ to William and .\lary on 200 30-63 11-21 39 13 71 
Saturday. Junior Chet Brightful had 

FG Pet 476 FT Pet 524 Team 
19 points and seven rebounds offthe

rebounds -0 Turnovers -14 Ass1s1s . 11 (Crumpton 6) Techntcals -None bench in the losing cause ... Rivers Notre Dame women (56) paced \1arquette with I H, while M FG-A FT·A R F P 
Dwayne John!>on chipped in 1-t. 

Ka1ser 30 2·4 2-2 5 2 6 
Reason, who had a career-high ;'1-1

Bates 12 1·2 2-2 1 2 4 Schueth 31 5-11 0-1 8 4 10 against lona last Tuesday, fouled out Hensley 21 0-2 0-0 1 0 0 with just seven points on 3-for-H Dougherty 30 4-1 7 0·0 4 4 8 
shooting .. .Tom Sluby had I I 

Ebben 20 1-8 0·0 I 0 2 
points for the Irish. while Kempton

Keys 13 1-4 0-0 1 2 Matvey 25 5-11 2-3 8 4 12 and Tim Andree combined for 1'i 
Klau~e 5 2-2 0-0 2 4 rebounds from the power forward Basford 13 4-4 0-0 3 1 8 
slot ...Kempton suffered a hairline 
200 25·65 6-8 34 19 56 
fracture of his right cheekbone, and

FG Pet 385 FT Pet 750 Team rebounds -9 Turnovers -22 Ass1sts 8 probably won't play tonight hut (Dougherty 3) Techn1cals-None should be back for Wednesday's 
Halft1me-Alabama 37, Notre Dame 31 A-
game with Bucknell 

1,575 
The Observer wtll accept class1fteds Mofl· day through Frtday 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m However. class1f1eds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day prtor to tnsert1on All classtf1eds must be prepa1d. 
etther 111 person· or through the matl.

Classifieds 
Furnished t-brlrm dpt near NO $t85 per Stanley Kaplm MCAT matenals $t 00 00 tltSUNRISE SEMeSTER Ill a year ot service month plus own electnc Ptlone 272-7767 Complete Debbie 272-9709, after 10,00 JOIN PATRICK BEAUDINE, EIIRL holy cross associates I year postgrad 
or 232-4057 · BAKER, AND R£GGtE EVERY MQN• work. many rewards helping those DAY THROUGH FRIDAY MORNING who need you. deadline february 8th.
L____NO_T_IC_ES~' I.____FO_R_R_EN_l___. 
FROM 7AMto9AM AS THEY WAKE UP Call mary ann roemer, center for Social HOUSE BY OWNER. Arl1ngton Hts. Clay 

T .;·JG Jackie Boggs. 684-8793 Twp 2 5 m11es from ND and Un1vers1 ty THE CAMPUS AND GET YOU UP ~.NO concern, 7949. mall. t600 sq h. 4 Bdrm. t 5 Bath. tn-lvel, OUT TO YOUR CLASSES WITH THE 
2 GraduateJLaw students wanted to 
WANTED 

RIDERS NEEOED TO PITTSBURGH OR 2 car garage. large shaded lot. many ex­SUNRISE SEMESTER SHOW ON Send PERSONALS to SophOmores
shdre 4-bedroom home wtlh 2 o1t1er Law 
ANY EXIT ALONG THE TURNPIKE FOR tras. 2 blocks from Darden school, WSNDAM641 studytng abroaa These lonely hearts
Students Completely lurn1shed 
THE WEEKEND OF JANUARY 28TH $59,500. 277· 6197 aher 6·00 pm would love 10 hear from vou Dehver to 31 7
$75/month 288-3t09 
PLEASE CALL PAT AT 3071 Mornssey or 212 Pasquenlla West by
HELP'I NEED A RIDE TO PA FOR EATING DISORDERS (Bulimia &
FOR SALE PIONEER CASSETTE DECK Jan 20
BREAK CAN LEAVE WED AFrER4 00 Anorex1a Nervosa) d1srupt thousands of Unfurnished 2 br apt near f\..0 Ul1ht1es 
CTF500 Pertecl Cond Ong111al Pack1ng
CALL MEG 7b28 liVes each year The Counseling & Psy­
•net $90 ALSO PIONEER MANUAL
pa. less gas. oh 272·0261 ChOIOQJcal Sclrv1ces Center of Notre Brglaqs.
TURNTABLE PL512 Perlecl Cond
Need nde to MAR· Dame w1ll be conduct.ng a 10-week You mav not t>e !htJ on1y one staggenng
Cartndge not 1ncl OngLnal Packmg 1nc1 UGLY DUCKLI~G RENT-A-CAR. Fndav $65 CALLJIM x1602
[--lOST/FOUND I 

OUETTE.MILWAUKEE.th!S week<Wl tor structured group for" ,o&rsons Wllh t~ese our 01 SENIOR BAR. Bul you w11/ del1o1te· ND bbell Support the learn and g1ve my d'sorders For lnformatlon/reglstrallon. iy be tr,e onry one stagyenng tn! HAPPYc1oon hi Monday noon $29 95 •ncludes 
1nends ann 1 a nde to tn1s 18 contact Dr Dan RybiCki or Dr Sue Ste1be 21st!
150 tree m1les Sates t.:J>c and 1nsurance state!JOExJ4 71 at 239-7336 LIMITED ENROLLMENT Love. ,,Ute fags
Can I PLEASE rave my new black Ca1v1~ extra Phone Rob for reservat1ons 259· Kle1n down Jacket back? •. Jrfl freez:1ng!llt 8459 was last seen at South D1mng Hall last 
TICKETS 
J 

Anent10n AI L T!10SE INTERESTED IN Furn 4·bdrm house for 83·84 scnool yr AN TQSTAl nterv1ews lor Executtve Thurs (12/9) Please ca~ x2858 11 you 
have any Knowledge of 11s wt1ereabouis BOOKS FOR SALE FOR CLASSESExcel cond close tc campus Reasonable Commtttee poSitions aare starttng now!
[ FOR SAlE~ 
GOV T 340. GOV T 343. PHILO 222. rent Call291·5687 See Margaret. the Student Govern­
FOUND· One calculator •n the language FINANCE 23t BOOKS ~EEDED FO<l.
Need 6 GAs lor South Carolina call8252 
ment/Umon secretary. second tloor

lab Soo Mr Ab1lh '" Room 2">0 0 Shag ECON 225. GOVT -lO€. GOVT 410. Al
CASSETTES CASSETTES TOK SA· Lafortune for an appotntment before
4 room Single, major uflltttes pa1d Newt v 300 ::>TATS. CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR FOUND: David Crocketi rl<gll R1ng remodeled $t60 mo 288-6721 35t0 ANYTIME
90 $2 70/each ~0 LIMIT CALL 289· Wed. Jan 19 Any questions--call Jay 7640 Re1dy at 239-7668Class of 79 Call Man 1244 3 Bdr 2 story. gas heal. & garage 260 00
found· small cross 1n fror.t of ACC on REPOSSESSIONS· BIDS NOW BEING 288·6721 A mandatory meetmg lor all SOPHu­
'eQIStr3~10n ('lay Call 2748 after 10 ACGEfTED FOR 77 Chev Nova 78 Pon­PERSONALS A mandatory meeung tor all SOPHO·
= 
uac TransAm 79 Chev 228 79 Tnumph MORES go•ng on the SKI TRIP Will be MORES go1ng on lhe SKI TRIP w1ll be held on Tuesday. Jan t Bat 7:30pm 1n
FOUND One t)asketbaJl founG at The The hOL'se thai ;.c nute ftockne b~t niPedS · Sp1N:re 80 Pont1ac Flfeblrd 81 Olds held on T cesday Jan 18 at 7 30 p m 1n Roc~ belor d break. Please ca!i and !den· a renant 87 50/mo asr.. ior Cub, .tJlatt, or (.utltU-'> illl!sel Contact· R Reecl. 239-Buy Observer c1ass1l1eds a1 the Sa1nt the Llb,ary .~ud The rematnd· er of your
the Lrbrary Aud fhe rema1n-deer of your 
ba1ar 1ce wr/1 be due

ttiy -r.82!jfl MiKe a:: 289·.3962 5564, 1\jl) ~:redll u~lnn Marys off1ce. weekdays 12·30 to 3.00 balance 1111111 '>e -1U'l 
._,. ...
-·~~· ~··!..~·~----------------------------------------~--------­

---~----­
The Observer 
-----------------~-----~ 
College basketball 
Pollsters puzzled after upsets 
ByJOHN NELSON 
.-tssociatecl Pre.'•is 
:\o I' 
l'rohahh· not \lemphi~ ~tatt:. Ct:r­tainl~ not \ irginia. :\nt t'\Tll ~t. John·~ 
\lavhe. Indiana. again. Or even lCl.A 
~aturday·~ full ~late of college bas­ketball action t:apped a week of up­sets that lxgan ,\londay with \'irginia Tech'~ (>9-~6 victory oYer top-ranked .\!emphis ~tate. 
While \kmphis State rebounded with an 80-65 victory over Cincin­nati Saturday. second-ranked Vir­ginia lost to North Carolina I 0 1-9~. and third-ranked ~t. John's was upset by Boston College 68-(H. 
Thus, neither Virginia nor St. John's was able to take advantage of the void that Memphis State created atop Tbe Associated Press poll, leaving the gate open t(>r No. -t In­diana or No. 5 UCLA. Indiana defeated Purdue 81-78, and UCLA heat Oregon State 99-77 Saturday night. 
In a matchup of the Atlantic Coast Conference's top two big men, North Carolina's Sam Perkins came out ahead of Virginia's Ralph Sampson. Perkins scored a career­high 56 points -including timr three-pointers -as North Carolina handed Virginia its first home court loss in 55 games. 
Perkins, meanwhile. held 
Sampson to I""' points. eliciting a rare 
superlative from Tar Hed coach 
Dean Smiti1. 
"~am Perkins was just un­
believable,'' Smith said. ":'\lot only in 
scoring. but he was abo verv active 
on defense." 
Saturday's action included tour 
other major upsets. Auburn 
surprised No. 6 Kentucky ""'S-6'7; 
Georgia defeated IOth-ranked 
Alabama 6""'-6-i; ,\!ississippi State 
edged :'llo. 18 Tennessee ""'5-""'-t in 
overtime, and Illinois downed No. 
20 Ohio State 65-55 
In other games involving ranked 

teams, seventh-rated Arkansas beat 
Somhern :\1ethodist 65-56, No. H 
Nevada-Las Vegas downed Fresno 
State 56--tH, 12th-rated Iowa 
defeated Iowa State 7 5-56, 15th­
ranked Syracuse outscored Seton 
Hall 92-81, No. 1-t Missouri topped 
Dayton ""8-6-i, I 5th-ranked Vii-
NEW HOURS 
WE ARE NOW OPEN FOR LUNCH MON. THRU FRI. 
MON-THURS 11 A.M.-10 P.M. FRl11 A.M.-12 MIDNIGHT SAT 4 P.M.-12 MIDNIGHT CLOSED SUNDAY 

~---------;-r
YALUAILI COUPOif 
'2"' OFF WCE I'IUA 
•t• OFF SIIU 01 IEDI.I'IUA 
OffER NOT VA.UOWITH ANY OTHER AU~liO"S 
.SPECIAL OCSCOUNT OR COUPON VAUO AI S 8 AUREUO"S ONL '1 
Coupon expires Feb. 1, 1983. 
IOMIY SP£CIIl 
-fti-FIEllllllllt 
"::::.U 
I500MINIMIJM Of'FEA NOT VAUO WITH ANY OTHER ALIAEUO'S SPECIALOISCOUNTOACOUfi'ON VALIOATS6 AURELIO'S ONLY 
Coupon expires Feb. 1, 1983.
L.:---------... 
FREE SALAD WITH ANY PIZZA, PASTA OR SANDWICH LUNCHEON ORDER. (Dining room only) 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 

"'""" 277....A9SO '\\-'II'BIE
OIIDI,EI' ""'"" 
lanova d<:tcated l'ro\·iJence -o-61. :\o. I 6 Houston whipped Texas --­
52. 1-th-ranked \linne~ota edged \lichigan ~tate (>9-(,-. and 19th­rankt:d :\orth Carolina ~tate clob­bered (;eorgia Tech H1-hl Ark.msas and :\C\·ada-Las Vegas remainnl the only major unbeaten teams in the nation. 
\:orth Carolina, 12-:\ after win­ning nine in a row. led bv as many as 
2:1 points. H~-(>2. with 9:--11 to go. But Virginia. 12-2. rallied to trail by only two, 9""'-95. with~() seconds to play after ouhcoring the Tar Heels 2:1-""'. Othell \\'ibon topped the Cavaliers with 25 point~. 
Phillip Hayes scored 22 points. 
• and \!emphis State led hy a~ many as 2""' in the second half in heating Cin­cinnati in a \letro Conference game. Derrick Phillips scored IHand Keith Lee 16 ti>r the Tigers, 12-1. Cincin­nati trailed :16-29 at halftime hut hit only two of its first 15 tleld goal at­tempts in the second half 
"Welcome back, Tigers," :\1emphis State Coach Dana Kirk quipped afterward. 
Boston College. the Cinderella team of last year's NCAA tourna­ment, got 2' points from :\lichael Adams to upset previously unbeaten 

EXPIRES 219183 I EXPIRES 219183 
..,t. John's in the Big East CunJerence. The Redmen. I+ I. led onlY once. :1--:\6. when Chris \[ullin hit the tlr~t baskt:t of the second half Adam~ abo had eight steals and five assists for BC. which reached the quarter­tlnals of last Year·~ national tourna­ment. 
Rand\ Wittman and Ted Kitchel eached scored 2:1 points as Indiana 
held  off  Purdue  in  a  Big  Ten  
matchup.  Indiana.  12-1. took  com­ 
mand  hY  omscoring  Purdue  20-2  

midway through the tlrst halfand led lw 20 points when the Boilermakers charged hack into contention. 
l CU.. paced hv Kenny Fields and Darren Daye, outscored Oregon IH­2 midwav in the llrst half and led by 20 points tin1r times before intermis­sion in this Pacitk Ten confronta­tion. Fields had 25 points and Daye I') t(-,r the Bruins, I 1-1. Charlie Sit­ton paced the Beavers with 2""'. 
Auburn's upset of Kentucky was its first win at Lexington, Ky., in 2""' meetings. Darrell Lockhart scored 22 points as Auburn took the South­eastern Conference lead with a 5-I record. Kentucky, II-5 overall, is :1­2 in the SEC Auburn took charge with a 12-2 spurt in the tlrst half 
X-LARGE 17" CHEESE PIZZA 
$6.79 

Grenades 
8-7 oz. bottles 
Old Style $1.89 
Strohs $1.89
$.76 ea 
Miller Lite $1.99 
WIN
750ml 

Giaccobazzi (750)
Hiram Walker $5.99 
Rosato or Bianco
Flavored Brandy 
Cinzano Asti (750)
Jack Daniels $6.99 
Bersano Ast: (750)
Harwood Canadien $4.99 
M&R Dry Vermouth 
King Cellar Vodka $3.99 
(1.5) 
SUNGLOWPOP 
Monday,January 17, 1983-page 11 


1  MEDIUM 14"  
I  CHEESE PIZZA  
:I  $4.71  

South Bend Ave. Store 
26HOURSALE 
(Mon-Toes 9 a.m. -10 p.m. only) 
$1.99 
$5.99 $8.99 $6.49 
6-PACKS 
Colt 45 $2.19 
,­
Fall City $1.89 Coors $2.99 Special Export $2.29 Lone Star $1.89 
Premium 6 Packs 
Becks Dark Heineken Molson 
(Beer or Ale) 
$3.99 case 

QUARTS All Quarts in stock 

~-------------~---,-~-~---~--­

~­
-----------------·-------------------·-··--·---------­
The Observer 

Now 5-4 
Belles beat SW Mich., Lake Forest 
~-, 11111111111111111111111111 , ..11111111111111111111111111111111111ttlllllltttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttltllltttlltttllllttttllttltttttllttttttttttlttttttttllttllllllllttttMttlltllttlltttllttllllltttttttttttttltlllltlltttttltttttttttllttttttttttlltttttttr41 
Si"ll UJ> t() [)()ll£f? ill tilt? 1CJSJ ~Clrcli ()rClS UC111£eCltli()ll ~ w 
ill ()()til Uillill" 11()11s. 
Danceathon will be Sat., Feb. 5 1p.m. -1 a.m. )! in South Dining Hall. 
Prizes include a trip to Mardi ·\ Gras in New Orleans!! 
!tlllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllt.llllllllllllllllllllllllllll•"lllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII..IIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIf! 

L~AVETHE 
ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! ~)mega Productions, Inc. 
IS now openirg their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type of music for any type of event. Parties are our specialty. Custom music programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan 0r Brad for details. 
IS coming 
around after halftime. 
Suess gor scoring support from Teresa McGinnis, who came oil the bench to can H-of. I 0 from the field en route to I~ points. .\!c(iinnis pushed her season field goal stan­dard to 6(> percent, putting her third in the country based on last week's statistics. 
Mary .\lcQuillan added I'\ points and Cindy Short chipped in 15. Betsy Ebert, tilling in lc>r the injured Missy \'anOrt. snared I I rebounds. Chip Ayone grabbed nint·. 
"\X'e played pretty good ddl:nse 
holding them to 1 1 points," said 
Rouse. "But we're still playing in 
spurts." 
Short contributed 1'5 points in hiday night's win. Ebert added I 0 points and 12 rebounds. Ayotte had seven rebounds as did Trisha Nolan bd(>re leaving the gamt· with a severely strained ankle. 
' Saint Mary's, now '5--l on the season and winners of four of its last live games, travels to :VIanchestcr tomorrow for a -, p.m. tipoff. 
"They're about a . '500 team," said Rouse. "Thev are shooting 6H per­
• • • Dolan 

continuedfrompuge 16 
years ago; those things seem to even up. "I told them at the: timc:ollt (with 
2:22 to go and ND down '5'-'55) 'I don't care what thc:'score is, we're gonna win this ballgarnc."' 
Afterwards, at a part)' thrown by the ND Club of Milwaukt-e, they showed a videotape of the: final j:22 oftheJan. 19, 19-r..j Notre Dame up­set of UCLA that broke the Bruins' n·nt frc.n the free throw line which tells me they have some pretty decent shooters. Ami they beat (ios­hen, and (ioshen impressed me." 
Saint \lal)·'s and \lanchester also are vying li>r a plavoff berth in the NAlA district tournment. The win­ner will have tht· inside track in receiving a bid. 
The lklh:s will he without the services of \'anOrt, the club's wp rebounder and :-.lo. 2 scorer beti>re breaking her ankk, ti>r their t(!Urt h straight game. She visits her doctor today and is expc:ctnl to he released with a clean bill of health and a go­ahead to see action. 
"She could probably play, but I'm a tirm helie\Tr in if you don't practice youtlon't pia~," said Rouse. "It's not worth the chance losing her I( or the rest of the season." 
"Jobn also will sit out tomorrow's contest. Both \'anOrt and :'llolan are expected to be ready ti>r this weekend's Saint :l.lal)-'s Classic. 
"Without \Iissy and Trish we're a different ball team," said Rouse. "It just means Betsy and Chip have to go most of the game." 
H~l-game winning streak. There, after a timeout and a s1milar impassioned plea by Phelps, the Irish scored 12 points in a row to steal a 'I--ro vic­to[)·. 
On Saturday, it was ten straight points in final 2:'5'5. 
A victol)· over :1.1arquette may not seem like much compared to that liCLA game. But to Phelps. the way it was accomplished -through the work of two freshmen, and after the Irish had blown a nine-point lead ­Saturday's win was just as satisfying. 

Notre Dame center Mary• Beth Scbueth was able to get position here to score two ofher ten points, but it u•asn't enough as the Irish u•omen dropped a 71-56 decision to Alabamayesterday at the ACC. ' See :Hike Riccardi's report on page 16. (Photo h)' Scott Bower) 
By DAVE IRWIN 
.\j}()r/s Writer 

The Saint .\lary's basketball team clobbered its two wt-ckend op­ponents to push its record over the . '500 mark l(Jr the: first time this season. 
The Belles smashed Southwestern .\1ichigan Collt-ge, 6H-19, Friday night at the Angela Athktic Facilty. 
Then.  the  Belles  traveled  to  Lake  
Forest  College:  Saturday  and  
trounced the: host, ...,9-+1.  

"Friday night we played maybe our worst game of the season," said Coach .\like Rouse. "But we came hack and played Vel)· we:II Saturday." 
Elaine Suess led tht· Belles against Southwestern \lichigan with 2~ points, connecting on H-ot~ I 5 shots from the: field. She matched her season average of 20 against Lake Forest. 
The Belles were in complete con­trol against Southwestern .\lichigan, but experienn·d some first-half dif tkulties against Lake Forest. 
Saint Mary's led 51-2-t at intermis­sion before reeling off a 29-.., streak to bury Lake Forest. "We made an adjustment in our press," explained Rouse of the Belles sudden turn­



~~----------~--~-----~-~-­
The Observer Monday,january 17, 1983-page 13 
After Friday loss 
Irish icers gain split with Miaini 
By JANE HEALEY  tic. Redskin John Ciotti's goal at  gin;, r::.tue lll~ tlrst scoring contribu­ 
.\ports Writer  15:--l6 gave .\liami the edge and  tion by picking up a deflected pass in  
eventually the victory. as :'1-iotre  front ofChevrier and punching it in­ 
Coach Lefty Smith was extremely  Dame was unable to connect on any  to the :\liami goal.  
proud of hi~ :"Jotre Dame hockey  further ~coring opportunities. Trat:  The next time Chapman skated on  
team this weekend as it battled from  tic in front of McNamara once again  the ice. with only IS second~ left in  
hehintl both nights in gaining a split  gave him little chance to defend his  the period. he got some help from  
with Miami of Ohio. The Irish  goaL  junior Tony Bonadio. Turning on  
captured Saturday's contest 9-6 after  Although the Irish lost, Smith was  the speed, Bonadio brought the  
dropping Friday's game, 5---l.  able to tlnd some positive points in  puck down ice and set Chapman up  
"I was extremely impressed with  the game.  with the perfect centering pass.  
the way the kids played," com­ "We've really come a long way,"  Chapman simply tipped it in for his  
mented Smith. "They didn't display  he noted. "Of course I hate to lose,  second goal of the night.  
some superb overall finesse, but the  but we had a lot of good hitting and  Notre Dame saw its 6-S third­ 
effort was tremendous."  hustling out there tonight."  period lead disappear when Redskin  
The major action in Friday's loss  Sophomore Sean Regan's return  T()dd Channel scored a questionable  
took place in the second period.  to the Irish line-up was one reason  goal. Channel and Notre Dame'sJelf  
With score tied at 1-1. \l.iami was  for the hard hitting Smith men- Badalich were both practically on  
able to penetrate the Notre Dame  • tioned. The St. Paul. Minn.. defen­ top of :vtcNamara when the puck  
zone consistently, and the Redskins  seman had been out ofaction for ten  squeaked in the net. The oftkials  
quickly hanged in three goals in a  weeks until his return at the Great  ruled that Badalich pushed Channel  
short four minutes.  Lakes Tournament at the end of  into the net, and allowed the goal to  
All three goals were scored from  December.  stand.  
within ten feet of Irish goalie Boh  "It was difficult at tirst to regain  It was all Notre Dame from there  
McNamara, clearly exhibiting the in­ my stamina," said Reagan. "But it  though, as some aggressive checking  
ability of the defense to clear the  gets easier with each weekend and  hy Higgins set up Chapman for his  
zone.  maybe hy the next series I'll he  tirst collegiate hat trick.  
"We just seemed to lose control at  where I was before I got hurt."  "It feels great," said Chapman.  
times and end up with mass confu­ Reagan was strong Saturday too,  "Kirt (Bjork) and John (Higgins)  
sion in front of the net," said Smith.  but it was the Kirt Bjork line with  played excellent, too. and when we  
It looked as if the fans might he  Champman and Higgins that stole  all do so well things are hound to  
able to leave at that point, but Notre  the show. Notre Dame's three  turn out all right."  
Dame kept digging. From behind Miami's net, freshman Steve Bianchi passed to fellow freshman Steve Whitmore, who neatly placed the puck past Redskin goalie Alain Chev­rier. Three minutes later, with Miami's Kevin Beaton in the penalty box for hooking, center John Deasy got the puck after the faceoff and passed to Mark Benning at the point. Benning rifled a shot that deflected off senior Mark Doman high into the net, ena­bling the Irish to close within --l-3 af­ter two periods.  leading scorers were responsible for eight of the nine Irish goals. Chapman ignited the scoring ex­plosion when Bjork, after skating the puck down ice, left it at the point for the trailing Chapman who, fired a bullet hy Chevrier to make it 1-0. Miami sustained a three-goal at­tack, putting the Irish behind 3-1 with three minutes left in the period. Then it was Bjork and company that shone until I:-16 of the next period. Bjork scored three con­secutive goals -a natural hat trick -to put Notre Dame up -1-3. Chap­ On a clean breakaway. Bjork scored an unassisted goal that not only gave him four goals on the night, but also gave him ,seven points to tie Phil Wittlift. for the all-time single-game scoring record in Irish history. Bjork's reaction was one of jubila­tion and praise for his teammates. "My performance was kind of un­believable," he laughed. "But, I think it all had to do with the fact that our whole line tinally jelled and looked great."  
But the momentum didn't die  man and Higgins added assists on  The icing on the cake was Bianci's  
during intermission. At I:48 of the  two of the goals.  rebound goal late in the game. Steve  
third period, senior John Higgins  Redskin Andy Cozzi beat the Irish  Whitemore got the assist, his fourth  
came up with the rebound of anoth­ defense and scored two goals of his  point in four games.  
er Benning slap shot and steered it in  own, both in close on McNamara, to  The split made Notre Dame's  
the direction of Brent Chapman,  send Miami hack in front, S-4.  CCHA record 6-16 and their home.  
who easily beat Chevrier to tie the  The possibility of back-to-hack  mark 2-9. More importantly, it  
game at 4-4.  natural hat tricks (three goals in a  showed Smith some improvement  
The scramble was on to break the  row by a player) existed until Hig­ which he no doubt enjoyed seeing.  

THE NROTC COLLEGE PROGRAM. 
$2,000 EXPENSE MONEY AND ANAVY OFFICER COMMISSION. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense 
money that's worth up to 82.000. plus the challenge of becoming a 
Navy Officer v.ith early responsibilitie~ and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in col]ege the 1\avy pay~ for uniforms, NROTC textbooks and an allowance of SlOO a month for u;::-i:O 20 months. 
NROTC $15,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: 
The two-year l\'ROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year 
college scholarship that's worth as much as 815.000 in tuition 
During college. the .\a\·y pays tUition. cost o! textbooks. instructional fees. and an allowance of 8100 a month for up to 20 months during your last t\·\-"0 years of college. Gpon graduation and completion of requirements. you are commissioned a :\'ayy Officer. 
If you have a C+ GPAor better, call 
us now as scholarship opportunities have 
never been better. Ask for LCDR Norrbom 
or LCDR Horstmann at 239-7274 or 239-6442. 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 

•

Notre Dame winger Brent Chapman displays the black armbands worn by the Irish players in Saturday's 9-6 t•ictory• uver .'11iami ofOhio. The armbands symbolized tbe possible imminent deatb ofthe hocke)'program at .VD. Seejane Healey's report, which includes exclusit•e commentsfrom Coach Lef~v Smith, on the back page. (Photo h)' Scott Bou•er) 
CORBY'S "BACK TO THE GRIND SPECIALS" 
Ladies Night 

moN. 
ffiix Drinks Jl.OO 

TUES. Shot Night Jl.OO 
WED. LaBatts Party Jl.OO 
~  (FreeT-shirts, etc, every hour)  
"Happy Hour" 4-8  
~SAT.  margarita's Liter J5.95 Bud Draft pitchers S2.95  

GO NO 8ASKET8ALLERS!!! 

WOMAN'S SPIRITUAliTY 
JAN. 28-30 RETREAT 

WITH TERESA GODWIN PHELPS AND MARY ANN ROEMER 
FOR: Graduate Students, Staff $8.00 fee, Friday Evening to Sunday noon at a lake Michigan cabin. Sign up at Campus Ministry· Badin Office 
LIMITED REGISTRATION 
an 
c~"'pus
m1n1stry 
'( ~ 


--------------------~ ------~------~--~~-----~--~---~----­
The Observer Monday,January 17, 1983-page 14 
Gamboa stars 
Irish swim past Belles, 78-61 


By THERON ROBERTS 
Sf}()rts Writer 

The Notre: Dame: and Saint :\tary's 
women's swimming teams wastcd 
no time resuming the 19H:\ portion 
of their seasons as seven records fell 
in a speedy swimming exhibition at 
the Rockne Memorial Pool Saturday. 
Notre Dame won the meet, 78-61. 
Both teams registered outstand­
ing individual performances. For the 
Irish, Karen Korowicki shattered her 
own varsity record in the 100-yard 
freestyle with a time of :55.47. Ven­
nette·cochiolo abo 11et a new varsity 
mark of 1:11.7 en route to her 100­
yard breaststroke victory. Gina 
Gamboa establishcd a new v.arsity 
standard in the 50-yard butterfly in 
:28.0. In the 50-yard freestyle, Julie 
Boss set a new pool record with a 
time of :26.:\. 

For Saint Mary's, ( iail Casey 
posted two new pool records. Casey 
bested the old 100-yard individual 
medley record with a first-place: 
time of 1:O·i 2. She also brokl· the: 
record in the SO-yard breaststroke:, 
winning the l"\Tnt in -~~·t.2H. Amy 
Studer establishcd the tlnal record of . the day in the SO-yard backstroke, with a winning time: of :29.HH. Saint .\tary's coach Scott Trees 
• CIINfriHAI * 
monday night film serie~ II 
An eYcenent conec.!ton of G~rmar. !,tms bott'1 ciaSStC 3"ld rec~nt ana tJOI'' snent and sound To be t'\eto n contunctton n•lh COT"· "j2Q­Aspects uf Ftlm German C1nema and MLGR J50-Germar Ctnema and sponsored by tne Department at Communtcatron dnd Theatre 
All showmgs at tf"\e Annenberg Auditorium. The Snite Museum ol Art. Notre Dame Campus at 9 00 P m 
na1vtduat AdmtSSlftns $~ 00 Sertes Ttc~<et Any 25 tums tram three senes $30 00 Any tS htms tram three ser,es $22 00
1
Ma1ch 'January · 

Young Torless ••966• Rober! Wtenl•. BJW 50 mm StleN 
Cabinet of Dr. Callgarl .!9191 

Volker Scntondorl! BIW 87 mm W1ene's s1tent claSSIC has e}(erct<;ed a considerable and las!mg ln­The rnrernat•onat acclatm of tne New Gerrnan Ct11erna can be dated 10 
thtS 1966 111m of Scntonoorll an aoap!atton ol the Must I novellluence If rema1ns to thtS day d str1k1ng C1r.emat1C expenment 1n e)(pres· 
510n1Sm 

Ma:ch 21 Januarv 24 Marriage of Maria Braun ,·~IBI Nosferatu ,'922! 
11 a11.,er Werner Fassbmder color 120 mm 

Fassb1naer s most spectacular and successful 111m m1)(es soc,al satlfeF W Murn.iu 8/W 90 mrn. stlem se)lual comedy ana pe•1od p1eCP as 11 chron1cles the s1ory at Mar1a
Along ...vrlh Catwwf and one or two omers Mumaus 1921 111m oecarne 
Braun Hanna Scnyguua tS a stunnmg metapnor ot postwar Germany 1nthe progenttor of d tuood ol horror mov1es Oul nownere nas fl1e creatrve her role as Mar1apoteflttal ol the genre tJeen better explmed than u, tn's tum 
March 28January 31 

M .1g3,, Aguirre, Wrath of God ·'97'l> Frllz Lany. BIVJ qg mm 
Werner Herzog color 94 mrn Cons1der~d Lang·s greatest him It% was !he mov1e Nlltch ,ntroduced Herzog·~ 1973 masterp1ece 15 a VISually gr:pp1ng l?l(8flllnali0n Ollm­
penallsm gone m<fd as ,, traces the exped1!10n ot a Spantsh con­qurstador 1r1 searct-1 ot [1 Dordat, K!aus K..-sv, as Agu.rre-turns .none ot Peter Lorre to aud1ences .as a psychopathiC ch.ld murderer the oest pertorrnances ol hiS career
.. 
reowary · 
Blue Angel 1929> 
AOIII 11

Joser von Sternoerg, s..w q4 mm S!ernoerq c, 1930 frlm 1s a C•dSS1C portrayal of an oldel professor'''"'! •'"· Nosferatu. '979, brougnt down Oy n:s conlrontal•L•r w1tn Eros. 1n the torf'l ,;' Marlenf.' 
Werner r-1e• zag. COlOr 106 m1n Otetnch Herzog·. •~"~teror~tatlor oft'le l)rt Jla o:;trJ•v .~ 1 ·~r'no:~k£' of and trltlUif' IO the Murnau ClaSSIC 
Februar.,. '.J 
A.0111 18
Triumph of the Will ,193A> 

Sisters or: The Balance of Happiness,''~''
Len1 Rreler'IS!ahl BIV~ 80 m,r 

1 \1argarethe ... on Troua color .:.5 m1n the most polished pr')paganda-oocun•entar•es ever rrade Httler cornm1sstoneo :r.e tale"tea Ler• Roetenstar·,l ,~, do Jnr:> 111m one oMdrgarelh~ von T•onas 1981 111rn locust?~ on th~ cunfllct Oetwet·•· :....,.,, 
.:.1ste1S dnd it1e d1tlerence at sP.n~lblli!leS t?etwef'n thl':' two 
Fetlruan.' 
4,:..." ~
Hitlerjunge Quex ..,_,3, 

Tales from the Vienna Woods 981, Ste1nhotl's 1933 him IS a11 e)(arnple ol ctnemat•C propagandd a'T 11-. Max Sc!lell color 11 n m1n 
Hans Stemi'Jotl g, W 92 mrn 

Based ori the 1911 plav o7 Ho1vatt• Ma-Scne11·~ 1981 111m 1::. a percep­tive explora!lon ot common oeop1e and tnetr v3luec; '\ a decav1'lg V•en 
•detliOQ1ca1 worst and teCtm1cat best r1a ot 1g30. d c1ty opo:o lor pluCking by Nahona Soc•ahsm

1--ebruar~ 78 

The Fraulein of Barnhelm ,,9401 Hans Swe1ka• 1 B/W 92 m1r Hans Swe1kart's 1940 adaptdiiOn ot Le%11'!9 s comedy 15 .'1 sutJIIe Out un­mlslakat>te produc! ot the Nrw era 
,,. u~I 1, 1·m ' 11\. 1 nu~ r' 

C{)/tvHIJNIIC!lllii{)N(Jllrlf!ill~E 

was unpressed with the timcs h>r the: 
meet. 
"Our program is rcally coming along," Trees said. "We had 21 ded­icated girb out there swimming on 'psyche.'" 
Irish coach Dennis Stark was 
equally happy with his team's per­
formance. 
"Coming back from Florida (the Irish trained there for eight days) I didn't know how well we'd do," Stark said. "But I have to say that I am encouraged by the times I saw today." 
The leading individual finisher for 
Notre Dame was Gamboa, who won 
three events. In addition to her 
record-setting victory in the 50-yard 
butterfly, Gamhoa won the 1()0-yard 
tly in I :0:\.2 and swam the fly por­
tion ofthe winning 200-yard medley 
relay. Cochiolo was victorious in the 
I 00-yard breasbtroke and was part 
of the 200-yard medley relay. 
Karen Korowicki had two in­dividual tlrsts ti>r ND. She won the 200-yard freestyle with a timt" of 2:02.2, a~ well as her 200-yard freestyle rt"cord. Sht"ila Roe~kr won the 500-yard freestyle in 5 :\H.6: .Julit" Boss won the 'iO-yard frt"estyk in record time; and Jean \1urtagh and Raili Tikka joint"d Cochiolo and Gamboa for the 200-yard medley 
relay victorv with a time of I :59 0..,. 
Ann Studer led Saint \lan··~ with three mdividual firsts. Studer won iht lOD-yard hack~troke in I :OS.96, the 200-yanl indindual medley with a time of 2:20.-o. as well as her record-breaking I 00-yard hack­stroke performance. Casey set two pool records winning the t 50-yard breaststroke and the I 00 I.M. Anne McCowan won both the one-meter 
( 
162.4 points) and the three-mt"ter 

( 
172.05 points) diving events. 


Saint Mary's 200-yard freestyle relay team of Nancy Lorenzini, Cathy Murray, Lucy Hanahan and Angie Micielutti won with a time of 1:5 0. 7. 
"There has always been a nice rivalry between us and Notre Dame in swimming," said S\1C co-captain Casey. "We wt"re e~pecially pumped up today." 
So far Saint \1ary's has qualified 12 swimmers for the :'IIAIA Nationals and, according to Tree~. he forest·es at least a couple more making the qualifying time~. 
Saint \lary·, ha" it~ onlv home meet of the \Tar this Saturdav, Jan. .!2 against Cilvin Collegt" of .\lichi­
gan. 
The next meet ti>r the Irbh is Wednesda\· at \'alparaiso. :'llotre Dame return~ home on Friday, joining the mcn for a douhlcheadt"r against Bowling ( •rl"Cn~ The meet will start at 1 p.m. 
• • • Death? 
:md ice ~k:ttmg are popular and

Clllllinuetlji·o/11 page 16 
succt"s~fnl here. so tilt" rink started the: lri~h Youth League ~erves a gooJ purpo,e... and then the .\lichiana lfigh During thl' nexr two Wt"eb, School l.eagut·. Both organiza­Corrigan ami Fr. Jovce will tions still use the: rink for their rt"view the entire hockey situa­events." tion. The:~ will prt>~cnt their 
l inderstandably. thest" or-opinions and "uggestion~ to Fr. ganizations have expressed their conct"rn over the hockt>y situa­'... (it) could be tion. Tht>y fear that, if the hockey 
termed an 'endow 

program goes, the ict" rink will go with it. or die' situatinn ' 
But Corrigan put their minds Theodore llesburgh, l'niversity to rest by saying,"The ict" rink presidelll, who will makt: the will be here no matter what." final decision~ 
Corrigan teels that the rink is l'ntil then, tht" future of the valuable to the Mkhiana com­Notre Daml' hockey program munity and to tht" Notrt" Dame rcmains undecided. community as well. But thing~ do not look bright. 
"I've bt>en here (the ACC) at Mr. Regan -.ummed up the I I o'clock at night and ~et"n weekend mt"eting.. best: "The cll'\'t"n hundred pt>ople come way we interprt"ted Fr. Joyce's watch an interhall hockey game," comments could he tt"rmed as an Corrigan said. "Interhall hockey 'endow or die' situation." 
~~»;.1~;:~•;:::;;,:::o.;:;.•::~~c::;;:~~~:;;•:u:..:<%'*.:.<~~~<~~<)1!ll(':iM'(j 
~:~ Attention All Those I ~ Interested In "AN TOSTAL" I 
~ ~ ~:, Interviews for Executive Committee Positions J
I. • are starting now. y i~ 
a See Margaret, the Student Government Secretary, ! ·.~ f f . t ~)
;;.:~ on the second loor LaFo11une, or an appomtmen , ~ I before Wednesday, Jan. 19,1983. ~ 
1 Ant questions· cal/239-7668 ¥ 


IheO~~~======================~~============ 
~~4()l~~==========================M=o=n=d=ay=,J=m==uruy===1=7,=1=9=8=3==p=a=g=e==15
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Campus · 
..c. 

lHANK~ BOSS. Jeb CashinSimon JotfN CfiN 60D THfN CfiN (;Of; lb 1/N'ITHI!{G ? fffiKE fl fi'a:K TtXJ f/G fOI\ GOP 70 LifT?I I I I Fate Photius OF COURSf, I COUL() $Lit3.1~ _I_I THAT'S HIGHWA'I C-ALL MY I=OLKS. I I-IAVf" A FtfL/N GI{OB6ER~ I HOW Do YOIJ. iH"'r YOU. WILL8£ ASLCExPEc..r A coU£qE: sruD'rtr "fo IH IN( OF A Witt.fo Got1( l.lP Wll'H fHAf II(INO OF ~NE'( 7/f \I  • 2 and ~,~o p.m. -Walking Tours ofMemorial Library, Meet in Concourse •-t:~O p.m. -Lecture, "Environmental Car­cinogens and the Prevention of Cancer." Prot~ David ,'\'!. Prescott, University of Colorado, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium .~p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Cutter's War.' Annenberg Auditorium. S2 .~p.m. -Baptist Student Union Bible Study, Bulla Shed •H p.m. -Basketball. :'>;[)Men vs. Lafayette, ACC Arena •9 p.m. ...: Monday Night Film Series, "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari." Annenberg Auditorium. S2 T.V. Tonight 6p.m. 16 ~ewsCcnter 16 22 22 Eyewitness New~ 28 Newswatch 2H 34 .~-2-1 Contact 6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World New' Tonight 3<! Over Easy ip.m. 16 ~\-A-S-H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report i:30p.m. 16 All in the family 22 family feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk Sp.m. 16 Lirrle House... A New Beginning 22 Life is a Circu~ Charlie Brown 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances 8:30p.m. 22 Filthy Rich 9p.m. 16 ~1onday Night at the Movies: 22 M-A·S-H 28 American Music Award~ 34 The Magic of Dance 9:30p.m. 22 Newhan tO p.m. 22 Cagney and Lacey 34 Jackie and Roy llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22Eyewirness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 TrapperJohn and Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 12p.m. 28 The Last Word !2:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David Leuerman  
ACROSS 24 Rake 51 Scrape off 24 Tatters 1 Endure 26 Haig's do· 52 Tavern 25 European 5 Pocket main, once 55 530 airportThe Daily Crossword change 33 Was con­59 Sharpen 26 Wound in Paris cerned 60 Mallet marks 10 Mop 34 Eye coquet­61 Eagerness 27 Implied 14 " ... against tishly for action 28 Milieu for -of 35 The present 62 Onewho contestants troubles" 36 High cards inspects 29 Sharpened 15 Mississippi 37 Boisterous 63 Foretokens end sight 39 Poker stake 64 Arthurof 30 Acute 16 Ivy League 40 Placefor tennis boredom school grain 31 Untrue 17 Learning 41 College DOWN 32 Poet's center VIP 1 Ply the preposition 20 Derby, 42 Timid one whip 37 Gas for one 43 Important 2 One-time 38 Louts 21 Summers: Fr. address movie dog 39 Excellent 22 Preminger 47 Roadside 3 Chair 41 Thick, 23 Hasn't got hostelries 4 Make lace as a fog -tostand 48 Facility 5 Decorated 42 Clio and on 49 Guns "groovily" Erato 6 Break one's 44 Standing agreement trees. Saturday's Solution 7 Rara­45 Paradise 8 Western 46 Painters'ALEC,PETAL.AHAB necessitiesIITOTO ALONE.PURE state: abbr. liT U N N E Y V S 0 EM P S E Y 9 Poorgrade 49 Nautical II S T A N 0 E E s•.I 10 Orderly call 1-0 0 E R. S I T routine 50 Descartes 0 E L T ASIA 51 SplitL A R I**&. 11 Be in expec· E R I E••ANA 52 BuddiesN A o%.!!-~ tationB R A 0 0 0 C K V S L I S 12 Memberof 53 WhereA 0 N. M A R Lil• V I 0 I ~-'' the choir Provo isA R A. I S E E C R E P E S 13 Ruler of 54 Nota-T T s• o oOR­•••o Tunis 55 ArticleS E 0 E R.•o I S A S T E AI 18 Sniggled 56 Self©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 1/17/83 MA R C I A N 0 v s MO 0 R E All Riohts Reserved 19 Prescribed 57 CertainE S A U •n A R E E .L U N AI WE T S •c HIE S T •o R E 01 itinerary actor  
Brian 0  
23 Sweetsop 58 Souchong Free University Sign up for classczs )an. 18 r. 19 from 6-9 pm in LaFortune Ballroom COME )Oitt THE FUtt!  


Monday,January 17, 1983-page 16

svorts 
Dolan, Buchanan 

Freshmen lead upset of Marquette 
By CHRIS NEEDLES after breaking the press, Warrior trying to isolate 'Pax' on the wing, Sports Editor guard Glenn Rivers' pass was inter­but he was covered. Dolan did the cepted by freshman joe Buchanan smart thing taking it to the hoop." .\1ILWAUKEE -There were ten -Rivers' fourth turnover of the "I don't know, it just happened," seconds left, the game was tied and game, and the 12th by a Marquette added Dolan. "When john (Paxson) Jim Dolan found himself in an un­guard. cut through the lane, he cleared familiar position -with the ball. Thirty-two seconds later, Dolan everybody out, and there was no Option No. 1 -namely,John Pax­tied the game with a tip-in of Tim one covering me. son -was double-covered. So, with Kempton's missed shot. 
"They were playing tight defense a five-second call imminent, Dolan For Buchanan, a former defensive 
on John, and I was afraid of a five­did what any healthy, normal, glory­back for his high school football second call. So there really wasn't seeking American would do. team in Seattle, picking off passes is anything else to do." He tried to be the hero. And he nothing new. 
"It was a clear-out situation for me succeeded. 
"He's a great defensive player," to go one-on-one," said Paxson, who 
Dolan's six-footer kissed off the said Phelps of his 6-1 guard. "Heck, finished with a game-high 20 points. glass and through the basket, ttous Gerry (Faust) needs him more than I "But they were denying me the ball. sending a sellout crowd of 11,052 do." Jimmy did the smart thing. They home disappointed, sending Coach Dolan, also a freshman, teamed 
weren't playing him at all." Digger Phelps into a euphoric with Buchanan for the winning After a Marquette timeout, the frenzy, and sending Notre Dame to 
bucket. After his tying rebound goal Irish went to a halfcourt press for the its biggest win in two years, a 59·57 
with 58 seconds left, Dolan was last six seconds. All the Warriors upset of Marquette at the Milwaukee fouled by Rivers, but missed the free could manage was a 25-foot bomb Arena here Saturday. throw. Buchanan skied to grab the by Rivers-who hit five shots from 
• 
The win raise<LND's record to 8-5 offensive rebound, and the Irish held long range in the game and beat entering tonight's contest with for the last shot. 
Notre Dame here two years ago with 
Lafayette at the ACC, and also ended "They doubled Kempton and in 
a desperation .35-footer at the buzz. the Warriors' home-court winning that situation I go right to the bas· er -but this time it fell short. streak at 14. Marquette, which lost ket," said Dolan, native of Point
a Enter "Disco Digger," who did a for the first time in eight games since Pleasant, N.J. "I was a little upset I 
victory dance at center court at the Dec. 20, dropped to 11-3. missed the foul shot, but Buchanan end. And who could blame him? For For a while, the scenario was one 
made a tremendous play getting the weeks, in town after town, Phelps la­to which Irish fans have grown ac­rebound." 
mented that all his team needed was customed this season. A pretty tip-in That set up Dolan's last-second one,just one, big win. 
by reserve Cecil Rucker of a missed heroics. The key particpants set the On Saturday, they got it. 
Freshman jim Dolan drives to the basket -uncontested -to

free throw gave Notre Dame its big­scene. "I guess We got so fruStrated in 
sink the winning basket with six seconds left, liftng Notre Dame to 
gest lead, 30-2 I, with I:38 left in the "We tlgured they'd go ro a zone," 
losing so many close games," said 
its 59-57 upset ofMarquetteSaturday. Dolan scoredthe team's last
first half. 

said Phelps. "We didn't call a Phelps. "Rivers made that shot two 
four points. Chris Needles' report from Milwaukee appears at left.
But, quicker than you can say timeout because then it gets to be a 
(Photo by Rachel Blount)
See DOLAN, page 12
"Villanova," the lead evaporated. game of cat-and-mouse. We were Two free throws by sophomore Ter­ry Reason put the Warriors ahead 57-49 with 3:40 to go, capping a 17-First home loss point turnaround. As usual, a rash of turnovers -the Irish finished with 20 -resulted in the deficit. 
Cold-shooting women fall to 'Barna 
But this time Notre Dame didn't second half saw the Tide turn over the second half when 6-2 freshman
fold. By MIKE RICCARDI Notre Dame's lack of shooting "We became a street-fighting Sports Writer touch was the key to the loss. Doug­the ball on three consecutive pos­center Carol Smith hit a turnaround team," said Phelps. "We just did to herty hit four of 17, Ebben was one­sessions with the Irish unable to baseline jumper, was fouled and 
them what they did to us. We went Notre Dame's most reliable for-eight and Keys sank only one of convert any of the Alabama mistakes (~onverted the free throw. The three­after them and didn't let up. Our weapons this season have been the four in 13 minutes of play. Matvey into points. point play gave the Tide breathing press worked well, and it seemed outside shooting of guards Laura and Schueth both canned five of 13. Notre Dame won the battle of the space with an eight-point lead with they (the Warriors) had a letdown Dougherty and Lynn Ebben, the "It wasn't a question of taking boards, 43-39, with Matvey and 8:51 left. when they went up by eight." potent offense of forward Trena shots from poor spots," said Coach Schueth combining for 16. Smith's layup with 2:32 remaining 
"Letdown" might not be the right Keys, and the inside attack of Mary DiStanislao. "Laura usually hits However, ND's inabilities to deny finished her game-high 29-point word. frontliners Mary Beth Schueth and from the top of the key, Lynn is pret· Alabama second shots and to get and capped an eight-point run that 
With an eight-point lead and the Shari Matvey. ty reliable on the wings and Shari rebounds for themselves when it closed the show for the Irish. Notre ball with three minutes left, Mar­Yesterday, though, none of those will get the turnaround. They didn't counted hit DiStanislao hard. Dame failed to put together a major quette proceeded to fall apart, just as weapons were effective as the Irish fall today. "They beat us to the boards," said run because every time the Irish the Irish had done earlier. shot 25-for-65 from the floor in a dis­"What was poor about our shoot­DiStanislao. "They earned their came close to threatening, Smith 
~ 
Four consecutive Warrior tur­couraging 71-56 loss to the Univer­ing was that we had people taking second shots, and they certainly carne up with the clutch bucket to 
novers -all the result of the Irish sity of Alabama in women'1> shots with nobody in position to took care ofours." douse the rally. full-court press -led to eight basketball before a season-high rebound." Alabama, meanwhile, wasn't bur­"(Smith) was just a huge factor," straight NO points that tied the 1,575 at the ACC. Notre Dame fell to _The poor shooting also nullified ning the twine either -the Tide game. The key giveaway came with 10-4, losing for the first time at home any breaks Notre Dame got. For in­made just .30 of 63 shots -and the See TIDE, page 10
'I 1:.30 to go when, on a three-on-one this season. stance, a key stretch early in the contest was competitive until late in 

I I 
Is the endnearfor Notre Dame hockey? 
ByJANE HEALEY last year, but there was still no support of the administration," neighborhood of S2 million, a over." Sports Writer student support." he stated. "The parents feel that t1gure Fr. Joyce quoted the Mr. Regan's reaction to the The only full house Notre hockey could be marketed and it parents at the meeting. possible death of hockey was 
After meetings Saturday be­Dame had last season in the ACC could work." •Lowering of the team's much stronger. tween athletic administrators was against Michigan State, when However, Corrigan disagrees. present varsity status. "Hockey "I personally love this place," and pareats of Notre Dame hock· Marathon Oil bought all the tick­"I'm a hockey nut too -all the could be reduced to a lower level he said. "I love this sport and my ey players, it was contlrmed that ets as a promotion and gave them past directors loved hockey," of competition by making it a primary motivation is to save it." the future of the Notre Dame away to customers. said Corrigan. "It is not a ques­Division II or III sport and taking Many of the parents are con­hockey program is in serious The second concern of the ad­tion ofinterest in the sport on the the scholarships away," ex­cerned about the future of their jeopardy. ministration is the economic part of the administration." plained Smith. "Or it could sons' careers ifhockey were to be 
"We are in the process of situation surrounding the hockey Taking the problems with become a club sport. Either way, eliminated. Corrigan says he can making a decision about varsity program. economics and with the students hockey would remain at Notre understand that. hockey," commented Athletic Don Regan, father of sopho­into consideration, three options Dame, but on a reduced level." "IfI were a parent in their posi­Director Gene Corrigan, who at· more Sean Regan and the spokes­for the program's future exist: •complete abolishment of the tion, I would express concern in tended tl:le meeting. "The final man for the parents, outlined the • A financial rescue or endow­Notre Dame hockey program, the same way they are," he said. decision will come in two administration's viewpoint. ment of the program, which is a which is the most drastic of the ''But when you have a program weeks." "Fr. joyce told us that hockey remote possibility at best. "If the three options. that is not making money and the 
The concerns of Corrigan and has suffered substantial losses in National Monogram club The fact that many of the Irish student body isn't supportive, it University Vice President Fr. Ed­the 1 5 years it has existed ai pledged or the parents raised the players wore black armbands is a bad situation." mund P. Joyce are divided into Notre Dame," said Regan. "In l 5 money, or even if an anonymous during Saturday's game is an in­Members ofthe Michiana com­two areas of importance. years it has been running under donor came through with dication that this possibility is on munity, which make extensive 
A lack ofstudent interest is the deficit status." money, the program would con­many :'leople's minds. use of the ACC ice rink and are primary consideration. Accord· Regan and other parents feel tinue," suggested Coach Lefty "I certainly feel that this is not the team's major supporters, are ing to Corrigan, there is "an ob­that the situation could be Smith. an easy decision for Fr. Joyce to also concerned. vious lack ofstudent support." resolved if the administration But those funds would have to make," commented Smith. "I un­"When I came here 1 5 year~ 
"The thing that really struck wanted to help. be collected in two weeks -the derstand about the financial dif­ago," explained Smith, "we us," explained Corrigan, "was the "I frankly feel that this program decision deadline -and the tkulties at the university because fact that hockey had a great year could be saved given the proper funds would need to be in the there are economic problems all See DEATH?, page 14 
I 
I 
ll 
I 








