-~------------------------------------------~-----­
• • • Emergency -page 6 

VOL. XVII, NO. 127 the independent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 1983 

ND prof: Washington to win 
By PAUL McGINN time, run well, position papers Another problem in Washington's ExecutiveEditor addressing issues." .campaign was his inability to Washington failed to address his publicize those supporters "within A record 1.25 million people will legal problems early on, according the black community who had the vote in today's Chicago mayoral to Roos. "He then should have best chance of making 5ome bridges election, electing Democratic addressed himself as being a good with at least a small percentage of Congressman Harold Washington solid manager" and shown his com­the white ethnics," including such 
over Republican nominee and for­petence through the "style of his educators as Marva Collins. 
mer State Representative Bernard campaign." Bernard Epton had one specific 
Epton, according to John Roos, as­"Instead, he let it slip away from problem, according to Roos. 
sociate professor of government at him," Roos noted. Washington only "Epton's biggest mistake was the 
Notre Dame in an interview with recently compiled a "black book of blatancy with which he raised the 
The Observer yesterday. issues, and finally got a transition race issue. Even looking at it from a 
Roos believes that Washington, a team together." purely self-interest point ofview ... black, will claim 51-52 percent of Epton didn't have to touch it. He the vote, as a higher percentage of could have had surrogates or others blacks than whites will turn out. do it. Ifhe loses, I think he'll lose be­
Tomorrow's Observer will pro­
Washington's victory will be caused cause enough whites simply saw Ep­
vide on-the-spot coverage of to­
by "positive ethnic voting" within ton as scurrilous and taking the low
day's Chicago mayoral election. 
the black community and because road completely." "some percentage of the whites are Roos also examined what each so cross-cut that they won't vote." candidate must do if elected. Wash­
Roos cited some major problems Roos believes that Washington ington, if he wins, must "name the with each campaign. Washington's should have campaigned to the 35 two most oustandingdcputy mayors change of campaign manager be­percent of the white community he can find -one black, one white." tween the primary and general elec­(centered mostly in the lakeshore Washington must also appoint a tion was one of many "inept" section of the city, an area con­chieffinancial officer "with deep es­decisions. "The big mistake for sidered liberal by many political ob­tablishment" ties, and a black police Washington was the organization of servers) much earlier. Washington chief "who is perceived as tough on his campaign and the way in which should have "lanced the boils" by crime," he said. the campaign presented itself to the openly discussing his financial his­
see PROF, page 4electorate," Roos said. tory and record as a lawyer. 
Washington was unable to present himself to the white com­munity as a self-assured candidate, Roos commented. "When you move 
'Fame' star reflects 
into a general election, you've got a whole new set of factors. Washing­ton didn't present the air of con­
on acting experience
fidence that he had in the primary . . . fUSt in the simple me­By CINDY BOYLE lege of Music at the University of chanics ofthe campaign-things on News Staff Cincinnati. He worked in Cincinnati 
as the "King of Boogie Woogie." The scene might have been the 
Hague traveled to New York City School for the Performing Arts, as after World War II and beganprofessor Shorofsky from the NBC composing musicals. His first hit wastelevision series Fame discussed his "Plain and Fancy." In 1959, he wrotemusical and acting career last night the Broadway musical "Redhead,"
Senate discusses co-residence 
at Saint Mary's. 
which won the Tony Award for best ByTOMMOWLE increasing social space. The group of Budget Committee will meet April During his lecture, entitled musical. Hague said that "the most StaffReporter students who will present these 28 to allocate funds to its various "Fame: From Albert Hague to profes­exciting thing about winning the ideas include Callaghan, Student branches. Shorofsky: Converting Your award was that Claudette Colbert
sor The statusofthe Keenan-Stanford­Body Vice President Peggy Prevoz­Lisa Fabian, co-president of Lewis Education Into a Livelihood." Hague was going to give me my Tony." Farley co-residential resolution was nik, and the new HPC chairman. Hall, was approved as the new stu­recounted his musical education 
Between writing shows, Haguediscussed at the first meeting of the An eight-member committee has dent body treasurer by a unanimous and musical background before "decided to get serious about teach-new student senate last night in been formed to address alcohol­vote. being "whisked away to Hol­ing how to audition." Since he hasHayes-Healey. related problems on-campus. Callag­Callaghan sent a letter of con­lywood." 
begun teaching the art of audition­Student Body President Brian Cal­han said it will "look for concrete gratulations to North Carolina State ing, he has attended 30,000 audi­laghan descibed the proposal as solutions" such as "having the first University for their NCAA basketball Hague is a Broadway composer, tions.
"extremely controver~ial." He rotation of physical education championship, noting our regular-teacher, lecturer, coach, musician outlined it and some objections to it classes deal with alcohol, drugs, and and performer. He was born in Ber­see SENATE, page 4 
Hague was asked by a castingfor the new senate members, saying, basic health" and getting more in­lin, Germany, and studied at the Col-director to audition for the part of"The main problem is that Farley formation to the students. 
professor Shorofsky in the movieand Stanford residents are happy Members of the committee in­"Fame." He got the part and madewhere they are and don't want to clude Callaghan, the HPC chairman, the movie in New York. The televi­move." Executive Assistant to the President sion series came as a total surprise to
Saint Mary~ seniors
Although the Hall Presidents Father David T. Tyson, and Associate Hague. "It was like a dream cameCouncil failed to reach the two­Provost Edward A. Malloy. They also true that I never dreamt," saidthirds majority required for ap­will give a report to the Board of Hague.
proval before Easter break, Trustees. 
start new tradition 
Callaghan said, "A group of HPC Exchange programs with several Hague performed on the piano
By HELEN LUCAITIS 
members are forming a committee universities are being considered for during the lecture, playing his
News Staff
to look into the issue." This commit­next year. They would allow stu­"Bargain Basement Boogie," the first 
tee will report to the HPC at next dents from each school to visit the 
tune he ever performed on his first A new tradition of recognizing a senior who best represents herweek's meeting. others' campus on successive 
job. He also played variations ofclass will be instituted by the Saint Mary's class of 1983. The awardIn noting that support does exist weekends. Schools being con­"Beer Bar Polka," imitating the styleswill be presennted at the Senior-Alumnae brunch on April 30. 
for the measure, Callaghan cited a sidered to paricipate in the ex­ofseveral classical composers.
"It's a different kind ofaward from the usual academic or spiritualvote by Stanford residents who change include Vanderbilt, ones," says Maura Kahn, Saint Mary's senior class treasurer.
favored the plan by a 2-1 margin. He Marquette, Purdue, Indiana Univer­Hague's advice to young artists is The award will be based on a student's involvement in academicsaid their approval was a message of sity, and Northwestern. 
to "demonstrate that you can be of
affairs, student affairs, hall activities, class and spiritual events, andrecognition that "something must Student government is looking for help when you go on your first audi­sporting activities.
be done eventually," although they a chairman for next year's mock con­tion." He added that "any part of"The award will be presented to a student who best representswould prefer to remain in their vention which will be held before theatre is hard to get into," and heour class, which is something that has never existed before," saysdorm. the presidential primaries. Callag­stressed the importance ofcommit­Kahn, "the most important part of the award is that it recognizesThe University Board of Trustees han said about 2200 students par­ment. 
someone in our class for what they have given to the school."
will review this and other proposals ticipate every four years, and that Any senior wishing to nominate a fellow Saint Mary's student can
at their May 5 meeting. The other the program is "very informative to Hague included in his presenta­do so by submitting a signed letter, which should include aissues include increasing financial people." 
tion a performance of "Did I Everparagraph describing how that person best exemplifies a Saintaid, improving computer facilities, 1983-84 budgets are now being Really Live," a song which professorMary's woman of the Class of 1983, to the LeMans desk by April 22. 
moving the placement bureau, and prepared. The Student Government Shorofsky has performed onFame. 

r 

By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
A series offour lectureson Gilbert Chesterton's 
participation in the field ofscience, to be given by Father Stanley L. 
Jald of Seton Hall University, will begin tonight in the Rare Book 
Room ofthe Memorial Library. the talks, slated to continue through 
Friday, will be all held at 8 p.m. in the Rare Book Room. Jaki, a 
Hungarian-born Benedictine, holds doctorates in both theology and 
physics. Chesterton ( I874-I936) was not only a journalist, poet, and 
literary critic, but also a Christian apologist, social reformer and 
lover of life and letters. Jaki's talks will include: "Chesterton: Inter­
preter of Science" tonight; "Chesterton: Adversary of Scientism" 
tomorrow; "Chesterton: Critic of Evolutionism" Thursday, and 
"Chesterton: Champion of the Universe" Friday. Aided by a grant 
from the Marguerite Eyer Wilber Foundation, the lectures are being 
sponsored by Notre Dame's Program of Liberal Studies, Depart­
ments of English and Theology, the Center for Philosophy of 
Religion, the Department of Special Collections, the Jacques 
Maritain Center and Notre Dame Chestertonians. -The Observer 
Elisabeth Schussler Fiorenza, professor of 
Theology at Notre Dame, has received a Fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation for I983. Fiorenze has proposed a study and commentary on the Book ofRevelation. She is one of292 scholars, scientists and artists chosen by the Foundation's Committee of Selection to receive a grant. There were 3,57I ap­plicants in the Foundation's fifty-ninth annual competition. The in­stitutions having the most faculty members chosen as Fellows are Cornell University with II, Harvard University and Stanford Univer­sity both with '9, and the University ofCalifornia at Berkeley with 8. Over 55.5 million in grants were awarded by the Foundation this year. -The Observer 
Dramatist Edward Albee says he refuses to teach college courses because he would complete the lessons in a half hour and then have nothing to do for the rest ofthe semester. Albee spoke to 50 students at John Hopkins University, where he taught a 26-minute play-wrighting workshop. Albee advised, "Have the major speeches by the main characters given on stage and not off. Have the climax toward the end. Know what everyone has written. But don't always read masterpieces, read some failures, too. If any­thing, it's encouraging. And that's about it. I taught you everything I know about writing in about 26 minutes." He commented briefly on the critics' mostly negative reviews of "The Man Who Had Three Arms," his latest Broadway play. "If they had reviewed the play as a play I had written instead of as a play they had hoped I had written, then the reviews would have been better," Albee said. -AP 
The South Chinatigeris in danger ofextinction, a Chinese researcher said yesterday. Fewer than 50 ofthe tigers live in the wild, said Tan Bangjie ofthe Peking Zoo. His comments appeared in the China Daily. Indiscriminate hunting and the encroachment of farmland on forests have whittled the population ofthe tiger, which lives in the wild only in China, Tan said. Zoos in China and abroad have 30 tigers, he said. There had been a few cases oftigers attacking humans, and more cases oftigers killing cattle and pigs as the disap­pearance offorests forced them to seek food near towns. -AP 
Vladimir G. Lomonosovhas been relieved of his duties as chairman of the state Committee for Labor and Social Matt "in connection with a transfer to another job," Tass reported yester­day. The official news agency said Lomonosov, 64 and chairman for six years, had been replaced by Yuri P. Batalin, 55. Batalin had been a first deputy minister ofconstruction ofthe oil and gas industry for I 0 years. There was no reason given for the changes. In another ap­pointment, Pavel Naumov has been named head of the Soviet news agency Novosti. He replaces Lev Tolkunov, who was appointed editor in chief of the government newspaper Izvestia in February. 
Izvestia is considered the second most important Soviet newspaper 
after the Communist Party daily Pravda. -AP 
Former President Richard Nixon's sold-
out talk on foreign policy next week in LaPorte, Indiana will be heard only by the 400 people who bought tickets for the gathering, a Nixon aide said yesterday. "It is an off-the-record session with no (media) coverage," Nicholas Ruwe, Nixon's chief of staff, said in a telephone interview from his New York office. Nixon is scheduled to appear at a $50-a-person gathering for the LaPorte County Replican Party April 20 at the LaPorte Holiday Inn. Four hundred tickets for the event have been sold out for more than a week, party officials said. Nixon also will attend a private fundraiser for Rep. John Hiler, R-Ind., earlier in the evening, Ruwe said. The announcement that Nixon's talk and a subsequent question-answer session will be closed to the news media angered many reporters and editors. The local GOP's acquiescence to Nixon's request that his remarks go unreported by the news media "deserves vigorous protest from the press in general, and from this independent Republican newspaper in particular," wrote Dick Morrish, editor and publisher of T,Pe LaPorte Herald-Argus. -AP 
Mostly sunny and warmer today. High in the mid to upper 50s. Breezy tonight and tomorrow with a 40 percent chance oflight rain. Low in the low 40s. High in the low to mid 60s. 
-AP 
Tuesday, Aprill2, 1983-page 2 
Choosing a ringmaster 
As Chicago braces itself for today's decisive mayoral election, it is time for the country to brace itselffor the next national circus known as the presidential elections of I984. 
For political junkies, the coming contest should be Utopia. Close watchers of the race know that it began shortly afterJimmy Carter fled back to the peanut fields in I980. His always happy and smiling vice president 
was suddenly and conspicuously absent from events sponsored by Carter-types and anyone else with a drawl. When Carter publicly endorsed Mondale as a presidential candidate in I984, a frightened Mondale disappeared to a Canadian hunting lodge to blast ducks and avoid the chance of getting "loser cooties" from Carter. 
Right now, Mondale is leading the pack of Democratic dogs for the party nomination. He has done this by adopting the time-proven style of politicians: a murky, middle ofthe road stance. Statements like, "I am in favor ofstrengthening our 
nation's defense to provide a a new record by starting his secure nation for our campaign six years in ad­children, but we must vance, allowing extra time reduce our defense spend­to get a nip and tuck for his 
ing to insure that we won't sagging jowls. become a nation of None of the other can­poverty." brilliantly placed didates are standouts. Unlike Mondale in line with what Jimmy Carter, who he's read in Gallup poles. He overcame his obscurity by can also sidestep the politi­showcasing his smiling cal pitfalls ofdealing realisti­abilities early, others have cally with the issues, yet to make much of a dent something that has tripped on the national conscience. up better men. On the Republican side, it 
The other democratic appears that unless senility hopefuls are a diverse array. reduces his brain to a jelly SenatorJohn Glenn can give bean, Reagan will run again. Mondale a real challenge. Af­However, should he choose ter all, what's better than a to retire with his horses and movie star? a real Nancy in California, a bevy 
astronaut. To this day, Glenn is still asked for his autograph, even by opponents. This fall, Glenn's image will be further inhanced by the release of the movie, "The Right Stuff." Based on the popular and witty book by Tom Wolfe, sources say that Glenn is portrayed in the movie as he is in life -a balding boy scout. By playing on his heroic image, Glenn can appeal to the presidential image favored by so many voters. However, with the riddance of Jerry Brown from politics, he will have to portray his astronaut image carefully, lest he become known as Mr. Spaceman. 
Gary Hart is a senator from Colorado. He was already well into Campaign '84 during his appearance here last fall. His advisors and aids are veterans of the spec­tacularly awful McGovern campaign of I972. Hart's rhetoric so far has revolved around the slogan "new ideas for new problems." Hopefully his slogan is not one of his "new ideas." It was used heavily by McGovern more than ten years ago, and has since been a standard 
The_OhserYer 
A Small Issue 
Design Editor ................... Tiny Tim Neely Design Assistant.. . .....Sub-A Tomil' Small Lavout Staff ............ on the head ofa pin Typesetter:) ...................... Mini MacLennan. A Rah-hit News Editor.. ...... Petite Doyle CofJl' Editor ................... A small mind May Editorials Layout. ...... Teeny Tari Hrown .\jJOrts CO/JJ' Editor .. Miniscule Mike Sul­livian ND Day Editor .... Teeney-weeney Pantil .\}JC Oay Editor ........... Teeney Tari again Typists .............................. Pica O'Connor Ad /Jes(l.{n ........... __ ...................... inch Euch Photographer ................ ltsv-bitsv Cifarelli Guest Appearances Tom i·hum-h Mowle, 
Dinky Dzave, Shut>, H.andguns and other paraphanilia, 20 percent Tommy 
The hernia that ate Harrisburg 
The swell <ha< swallowed Sou!h Bend 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) •s publ<shed Monday through Fr<day except dunng exam and vacal<on perwds The Observer <S published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College. Subscr1ptwns may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Ob­server, P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Attention Freshmen! Sign ups for 
~npftnmnrt 14ittrarylfl'tstiual 
l 
Sponsored by St. Joe Bank and 
through Apri115  
IIIII  
" li1 f1 ~  Attention Juniors, Seniors, and Grad Students: Establish Credit Visa and master Charge $12 instead of $25! Mond::.~~~t1~?h~!u~~A,I;;::Y~~pri/15~11 AM to 1:30PM in LaFortune  

ND Finance Club 
·:WqE"~)?0W##UI#hfl¥'tW'ff//ff/~ffff/hW#..@0"M$$/fffft?M@Wff##&f~Jih 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor Emeritus-­
Inside Tuesday 

with. candidates for offices as diverse as city council­
man, county drain commissioner, and city municipal 
animal welfare control specialist (dogcatcher). 
The democratic election scene lost some color when Ted Kennedy took himselfout of the race. Although he cited "family reasons," the real reason is that his ad­visors figured that after he so cleverly bungled the early leads he had in the last two elections, a third aborted attempt might permanently swamp his chances. So Ken­nedy is out in '84, but he has made obvious references 
to I988. In doing this, he set 
of candidates including Bush, Baker, Dole and Kemp await. Most of these fellows are biding their time until they take on Kennedy in '88. 
Key to the hoopla of Campaign '84 is the press. They can take 1984's smallest verbal error or strategic blun­der and turn it into a full blown scandaL The levels of coverage will doubtlessly break all records. Residents 
·of New Hampshire can look forward to hordes of 
probing mikes and nosey cameras trampling their lawns 
and interviewing their cows. 
Although, Campaign '84 will at times resemble an ab­surd comedy, isn't it worth all the allegations, hot air, flapping jaws, shrieking headlines, and rousing rhetoric 
if it will once again produce for the American people the best candidates possible? 


The Observer Tuesday, Aprill2, 1983-page 3 
American Inen expand role in family life 
By KEVIN BINGER "Women have comprised a larger News Staff part of college populations and are no longer willing to be just 
"The world of the typical 'Dick housewives and mothers," Bell and Jane family,' in which men bring stated. home the bacon and see themselves "Also, men have felt a need to be as superior to women, is no longer closer to their children and to un­practical for many Americans," said derstand and experience ... Dr. Donald Bdl of Harvard Univer­(varying aspects) of themselves." sity last night. This has forced men to make some 
Bell's comments were not new to difficult decisions between the role many in the audience. 0ne man in of the ''traditional man" that their the audience refuted Dr. Bell's claim minds were ~:.tnr~r-·d with as that corporations are starting to be children and the role of the more sensitive to the needs offamily "contemporary man." Bell terms men. He stated that his company this the "The Paradox of Mas­would not promote him because he culinity," the subject of his new would not work overtime: he book Being a Man: The Paradox of wished to spend more time with his Masculinity. two children. "We're beginning to see a mini­
"This is not a wholesale, overnight explosion in the birthrate as the war­revolution, but a piece by piece time baby boom children have change," said Bell. grown and are now having their own 1 ---:;:-::-----111111-iiiiiiiiill"-l children," says Bell, "this means that 
more families are having to confront the problem of coordinating work and childrearing." 
Bell says that many men are not satisfied with the traditional role and ·. are struggling to find new ways to 
spend more time at home. 
"One price is that the time that must be put into childrearing takes time away from working toward career advancement," says Bell. 
"Many men are deciding that their marriages are more important to them than having a career that takes them to the top of their profession," he continued. 
However, Bell stated that "traditionalists still constitute a majority of the male population. Many men still think of male and 
·female roles in one way -either I'm the strong partner, or she is. Many men have a difficult time relating to women as co-workers or superiors." 

Board plans new shuttle schedule 
By MARY ANN P01TER 
StaffReporter 
A new schedule for the shuttle which runs between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is being discussed by the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student activities oftlces. 
This announcement was made by the 1983-8-t Saint Mary's board of governance, which held its tlrst meeting last night. The new schedule would make the t:niversity Village Apartments, which are con­sidered on-campu~ housing, a regular stop on every shuttle run. The shuttle is proposed to leave Saint Mary's, and instl'.id of going down Notre Dame-Saint :\hry's Road. it would travel down t:.s. 31 to 
Lectures in Judaica 
Author discusses monotheism 
By GRETCHEN PICHLER 
News Staff 
The question of Jewish monot­heism and its implications was dis­cussed last evening by Michael Wys.:hogrod, chairman of the philosophy department at Baruch_ College, City College of New York. 
Wyschogrod's presentation was the tlfih in a series of lectures sponsored by the Liss Lectures in Judaica, which brings noted Jewish historians and scholars to the Notre Dame campus each year. 
Using the new translation of the Bible passage Deuteronomy 6:4, which follows the Greek metaphysi­cal tradition of the oneness of God, Wyschogrod explained that the real issue "is not the idea of God becom­ing a metaphysical God when He wasn't before, but rather His being the only God worshipped." 
This passage from Deuteronomy. which correctly translated reads, "Hear, 0 Israel, the Lord is Ol!r God only; the Lord," is ,important be­_cause its emphasis is on the i.dea that. God "can only be served with all of the heart, all of the mind. and all of the soul," he said. The context is also 
important, he explained, because it 
relates Moses's fear "that the people 
will be disobedient . . . that their 
loyalty will be divided" and because 
of Moses's response that the people 
must accept the Biblical God as the 
only God. 
Wyschogrod used the internal, philosophically-oriented aspect of God to explain that "the essence of 
the t:niversity Village Apartments. 
The next stop would be the Notre 
Dame Memorial Library. 
There are presently four trips made to the Cniversity Village Apart­ments during the day. 
The board ofgovernance wants to get feedback from the students so that they can :·set up some letter or proposal that we would support," according to Student Body Presi­dent Elaine Hocter. 
In other action at the meeting: 
• .\-lay 1 is International Peace Day. The tentative schedule of events at 'iaint Mary's begins with a Mass at 
11 :30 a.m. Sunday. l.i\'e music on LeMans courtyard will follow the Mass from I:30 p.m. until 3:30p.m. Other events, such as lectures and God is totally simple -one cannot apply adjectives to Him" because it would add "an aspect of multiplicity to His being." 
Although the term monotheism may be ascribed to many religions, such as judaism,. Christianity, and Is­lam, "the issue is not monotheism· in the abstract. but the question of whether the Biblical God is the one true God or not." 
"Biblical oneness is the hope that all of humanity will serve the one and only God," he said. 
Wyschogrod has written several books, including Kierkegaard and Heideggar: The Ontology of Exist­ence and jews and jewish Chris­tianity. 
more hve music, are on the schedule ofevents for Peace Day. 
• 
A special movie preview of "The Ballad ofGregorio Cortez," not to be released to the public until Septem­ber, will be shown this Thursday in Moreau Seminary at 7:00 p.m. The movie is being offered free of charge. 

• 
The An Tostal event "Mr. Campus" will be held at Saint Mary's as part of Gentle Thursday activities at .,:30 


p.m. It will be followed by the Beer Garden. 
• Registration for the "Walk for World Hunger" will be held in the LeMans lobby today from II:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m. The event is a ten mile walk, which will be held this Saturday at I0:00 a.m. in Leeper Park. 
Michael McAuliffe discusses the recent co­residential proposal for the Keenan-Stanford complex at last night's student senate meeting. 
Ob!;ervor/l'aul Citarelli 
The University Board will review this and other proposals at their Jfay 5 meeting. 
Final lecture 
Lerner values creative education 
By AMY STEPHAN 
News Staff 
Education should involve more than just absorbing facts for a test next Thursday. According to Max Lerner, education should address not only the cognitive asp~ct of a. person, but also one's needs, roles and values. 
Lerner, the Welch professor of 
American Studies at Notre Dame, discussed the necessity of "integrating vital aspects of a per­son" through education and sug­gested several improvements to our 
present system of education last present. 'l;o one phase of life is 
night in his third and concluding preparation for all the rest." 
lecture on "The Integration of Lerner noted that the emphasis 
Learning." should be less on courses which 
"I don't like the term 'curriculum­transmit knowledge than on model­making.' I wish we could banish it ing. which prepares students for life: forever,"said Lerner, suggesting that "The emphasis should be less on a curriculum should establish courses and more on the human ground rules under which students beings in the courses." and faculty will work together. Lerner suggested that teachers 
This curriculum should express break from "the musty academic consensus between the entire stu­tradition. which causes us to ex­dent body and the entire faculty. clude our own selves from the class­added Lerner. room and be only cognitive."· 
Course content and distrubution "\'alues theory should be part of should develop the student as a educational theory," said Lerner, ad­whole person, he said. "We have to ding that he views ''every classroom move from a theory of learning to a as a potential arena for confronting triad of theories which address our values." needs, our roles, and our lives. . . 
American educational theorv has Supplementmg teachers by panels 
largely ignored these needs." Lerner of people who questi~n and chal-. 
said that these basic human needs in-lenge the1r statements 1s another of 
elude: a sense of growth, security, 
identity, relating, belonging, believ­
ing, and meaning. 
According to Lerner, one's educa­tion can only be started in adolescence and early adulthood and must be continued throughout life. "College has no monoploy claim on preparation," he said, "all of life 
can be seen as a preparation for whatever remains oflife up until the 
end." 
"Ideally, we shoud be preparing for the future and living in the 
AROUND THE WORLD STUDY 
Kyoto, Bali, Singapore, Benares, Nairobi, Cairo, Jerusalem, London. 
30 university students, drawn from across the United States, will circle fhe world Sept. '83-May '841iving and studying in the above locations. Accompianied by in­ternationally known senior professors, the selected students will carry a full course load as they explore how societies represent and interpret themselves to themselves and outsiders. 
A unique opportunity to study around the world for a full academic year, the International Honors Program seeks mature, motivated candidates who have a­chieved academically. Further information may be ob­tained by calling, collect, 217-384-6383 or by writing to the program directly. 
THE INTERNATIONAL HONORS PROGRAM Suite 307-96 1430 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge MA 02138 
Lerner's proposals. He commented, "Any subject lends itself to diversity of interpretation. Surely we are shortchanging our students by giving them only one interpreta­tion." 
Lerner said that he assumes in his theories a measure. of creativity in teachers and students. He explained that integration is similiar to creativity in that both of these processes involve relating, binding, and connecting what has not been before. 
The Observer Tuesday, April12, 1983-page 4 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -"Gandhi" dominated the fifty-fifth Academy Awards with eight Oscars last night, including best picture and the best actor award to newcomer Ben Kingsley. Meryl Streep was named best actress for her role as the tragic Polish survivor of a concentration camp in "Sophie's Choice." 
"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial," the movie about a lovable creature from outer space that has become the all­time box offfice champion, finished second in the sweepstakes with four Oscars. 
Jessica Lange, as the vulnerable soap opera star in "Tootsie," and Louis Gossett Jr., as the tough but fair drill sergeant in "An Officer and a Gentleman," were best supporting actress and actor. 
"Gandhi" the epic biography of the apostle of non-violence who led India to independence, picked up six other Oscars, including the prize for best director to Richard Atten­borough. 
It was the second year in a row that a British film won Hollywood's highest honor. Last year the best picture was the.dark horse "Chariots of Fire." 
It was the second Oscar for Miss 
Streep, who won the supporting 
award for "Kramer Vs. Kramer" in 
1979. 
The following is a partial list of •Best Original Screenplay winners at the fifty-fifth annual "Gandhi," John Briley Academy awards. •Best Adapted Screenplay 
•Best 
Picture -"Gandhi" "Missing," Costa Gavras and Donald 

•Best 
Actor Ben Kingsley, Stewart "Gandhi" • Best Original Song -"Up Where 

•Best 
Actress Meryl Streep, We Belong," "An Officer and a "Sophie's Choice" Gentleman" 

•Best 
Supporting Actor -Louis •Best Original Score -"E.T. the Gossett Jr., "An Officer and a Extra-Terrestrial," John Williams Gentleman" •Best Documentary Feature -"Just 

•Best 
Supporting Actress -Jessica Another Missing Kid" Lange, "Tootsie" •Best Documentary Short Subject 

•.Best 
Director -Richard Atten­-"IfYou Love This Planet" borough, "Gandhi" 


AllegedPLO assassin captured in Portugal 
an accomplice to the killing. 
"We have strong suspicions that have led us to believe this man is connected with the assassination," Carneiro did not elaborate. 
Issam Sartawi, a 47-year-old physician who had become a leading PLO advocate of reconciliation with Israel, was shot Sunday while attend­ing the final day ofthe Socialist Inter­national conference in the se..side 
city ofAlbufeira. 
······•···•················································
BSN Nurses 
............................................................ 
Ready For More 
Educational Opportunities? 
As an Army nurse, you can apply for nurse practioner or clinical speciality courses, or enroll in graduate degree programs. 
If you qualify, you can receive all your tuition, pay, and allowances while attending a civilian university full time. 
Army Nursing Speciality Courses are also available. Each is conducted in an Army hospital where you receive actual clinical experience that is combined with theoretical study. These courses teach the most advanced techniques in that speciality. 
Currently, Nurse Practitioner courses in pediatrics, OB/GYN, and adult medical surgical care are being offered. A midwifery course and anesthesiology program are also available, both leading to Masters Degrees. 
For more information, contact your Army Nurse Recruiter: 
Sgt. Dan Clawson (219) 872-8634 Call Collect 
···A·r·my·:·~~··Air·v·~·~·c;~··a;·:·· 
........................................................... 
LISBON, Portugal (AP) -Police yesterday arrested a 26-year-old man in connection with the assas­sination ofthe PLO's European coor­dinator, and hunted for a taxi driver who fled from a police patrol after the murder. 
Acting Internal Administration 
Minister Roberto Carneiro declined 
to say whether the man arrested yes­
terday was suspected of shooting Is­
sam Sartawi in a crowded hotel 
lobby at Albufeira, 120 miles from 
here, or whether he was considered 

I
Mail To: 
I
JOHN CARROLL UNIVERSITY 
I
Director of Summer Sessions University Heights I Cleveland, Ohio 44118 I OR 
FLOC will establish national headquarters 
OTTAWA, Ohio ( AP) -The Farm Labor Organizing Committee says it plans to establish a national head­quarters on a 20-acre site in Putnam County, where migrant workers clashed with deputies in a 1979 inci· dent. 
FLOC president Baldem t ar Velasquez said yesterday the land was purchased wi.th a $3.f,OOO loan from a supporter ofthe organization. He said the group, now headquar· tered in Toledo, will be relocating to the property, midway between Ot· tawa and Miller City. 
The migrant workers' organiza­tion began picketing in tomato fields in northwestern Ohio in 1978. Since then, FLOC has turned to boycotting the Campbell Soup Co. and Libby, McNeill & libby to try to persuade 
the  two  leading  canneries  to  
recognize  the  organization  as  
bargaining  agent  for  migrant  
workers.  

Velasquez says FLOC plans to con· duct citizenship training programs at the new headquarters once con· struction of a new building is com· pleted. '"We plan to have citizenship training, voter education. We want to train the agricultural workers to take part in the democratic process," he says. 
In 1979, U.S. District Judge Don Young in Toledo ordered Putnam County SheriffRobert Beutler to halt surveillance ofFLOC members, who complained they were being harassed by the sheriff and some deputies. Young ordered the sheriff and his men to stay at least 30 teet from FLOC members and to refrain from filming private meetings. 
More than two dozen FLOC mem­bers were arrested in September 1979 after a strike by migrant workers at a Putnam County tomato field. A FLOC attorney,John Kilroy, told Young he had been beaten outside the· Putnam County Jail by three deputies and a civilian. 
Velasquez said some of the land at the new headquarters site is to be set aside for experimental, organic far­ming ofcrops, including tomatos, in an effort to find ways to eliminate or reduce the need for pesticides. In addition, FLOC plans to devote more time to the boycott, including doubling the number of workers who are behind the effort. 
FLOC has been seeking the rigiit to intervene in negotiations be­tween farmers who grow tomatoes for Campbell Soup and Libby, McNeill &.libby and the companies. But the companies have refused, maintaining the farmers indepen­dently hire the migrant workers. 
Scott Rombach, director ofpublic relations for Campbell in Camden, N.J., said that the company has "no desire to talk" with FLOC officials. He said Campbell has felt no effect from the boycott. 
• • • Prof 
continuedfrompage I 
Epton, if elected, must "count the numbers in the city council. If there are enough Democrats on the city council, they're going to try to govern." 
Roos believes that Epton almost will certainly not be re-elected if he wins today as "he would have to win 80 percent ofthe white voteagain." 
But Washington, if victorious today, "is on the table." He has "an awfully good chance of being a three-term mayor" if he "does a great job of running-the city," Roos said. 
Th_e first thing Washington would 
have to do is "get hold ofthe govern· 
ment, and buy himselfsome time by turning 'the day-to-day administra­tion over to some top people" and by ending the patronage system. Roos cited an old political remark, "You're not doing a good job if your base is happy with you." 
For either candidate, "the first 10 days after the election and the first 60 days after the inauguration are crucial ... how he acts, the signals he sends," Roos said. Everything for the next few months should be "policy-oriented." Stating that if he were in the place of the elected mayor, Roos said, "I would try to cauterize the wounds of Chicago," by admitting the mistakes of the campaign and by asking for help 
from the people ofChicago. 
• • • Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
season victory over them. 
Callaghan hopes to spend the three days after exams working with the new senators and class officers to "plan for next year and get ideas." Today, he will be meeting with Brig­ham Young University's student body president, vice president, and ex-president, who are visiting the campus while attending a conven· tion in Chicago to get ideas. 
The Student Senate presented plaques "in grateful recognition for dedicated service to the Student Government of the University of Notre Dame'' to ex-Student Body Vice President Bob Yonchak and ex­Student Body Treasurer John Eic­henlaub, the only members of the last administration present at the meeting. 
Get Involved!! Cultural Arts Commission 
sponsor of SLF, CJF, Student Players, ISIS, etc .•.• 


-~--~-----­
The Observer Tuesday, April12, 1983-page 5 
Special commission recotntnends MX plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -After struggling for months to find a politi­cally acceptable basing system for the MX missile. a special commis­sion recommended to President Reagan yesterday a plan virtually identical to one already discarded by Congress. 
Playing down Reagan's earlier warnings about U.S. missiles being vulnerable to Soviet attack, the panel unanimously proposed build­ing l00 MX weapons, each armed with l 0 nuclear warheads, and put­ting them in launch silos now hold­ing Minuteman missiles in Wyoming and Nebraska. 
Accompanying that warmed-over proposal was the commission's one new idea: developing a smaller, single-warhead missile for deploy­ment in the early 1990s. The group said that could be a cornerstone for a new approach to arms control. 
During a brief meeting, Reagan formally received the panel's recom­mendations but witheld his endorse­ment. "Some of my best friends are MX missiles," he joked. 
Aides said Reagan likely will embrace the recommendations next week, once Congress has completed battling over a nuclear weapons freeze and the disputed nomination of Kenneth Adelman to head the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. 
"Few if any will consider our recommendations an optimal solu­tion," said retired Air Force Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft, head of the 11­member Presidential Commission on Strategic Forces. "If such were 
Vietnam, Cambodia hit hostilities peak 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP)-The especially in someone else's Thai-Cambodian border, where country. fighting recently escalated to a four­The fall of the anti-Vietnamese year high, is likely to remain a bat­coalition's O'Samak headquarters tleground for years as a formidable and the destruction of several 
Vietnamese army attempts to crush Khmer Rouge bases were serious elusive and determined Cambodian military disruptions. But Western guerrillas. and Thai military analysts believe 
Cambodian civilians pour across civilian casualties are higher than the border into Thailand. Viet­those ofthe guerrillas, indicating the namese and Cambodian fighters latter are following the standard tac­track each other in malarial jungles. tic of melting away rather than con­Thais and Vietnamese trade artillery fronting superior force. fire and vitriolic words. 
The Soviet-backed Vietnamese
These scenes have been repeated have some I80,000 troops through­
again and again since early 1979 out Cambodia, along with
when Vietnamese invaders drove warplanes. tanks and heavy artillery.
the Communist Khmer Rouge government from Phnom Penh, 
spawning a guerrilla war and a large, floating population ofcivilians along 
Applications now being taken for 
the western edge of the country. The Vietnamese launched their most ambitious drive to date against 
~1nance CluB Stat=r pos1t1ons
the guerrillas in December. making at least five significant strikes since December, then overrunning 
Information and applications available 
several key bases in an offensive that began March 31. 
in Room 225 Hayes. Healy 
"This year they're tougher at hit­
Monday, April11 through Friday, April15 
ting border camps and are more wil­ling to risk international criticism," 
· positions open to everyone . 
says one Wetern diplomat. "But 
there is no question of the Viet­
namese handing the guerrillas a 
knock-out blow." 
As the Americans learned in Viet­
Applications for 
nam and the Soviets are discovering in Afghanistan, there is no such thing 
ASSISTANT TREASURER 
as quick victory in guerrilla warfare, 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 
2nd floor LaFortune Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting major 
Applications Due Friday, April15 4:00PM 
available, this commission probably would not have been convened." 
Mindful that Congress had scrapped Reagan's two earlier MX proposals, Scowcroft was hesitant to predict the outcome of this plan. "What we have, we feel, has a reasonable -has the best chance to be successful," he said. 
Campaigns to kill the MX already were being readied in the House and Senate. 
Reagan established the commis­sion Jan. 3 after Congress turned down his "dense pack" plan to deploy MX missiles closely together in Wyoming silos. Lawmakers put a freeze on money to build the MX un­til Reagan proposed an acceptable basing system. 
His original proposal, unveiled 18 months ago, had called for putting 40 missiles in Minutemen silos tem­porarily while searching for a per­manent basing system. Congress rejected that idea, saying it did no­thing to protect the land-based missiles from Soviet attack and insisting that the administration come up with a permanent basing system. 
In its report, the commission proposed putting 100 MX missiles permanently in Minutemen silos, and examining the possibility of "hardening" them against attack. 
Scowcroft said development of a single-warhead missile -weighing about 1 5 tons as opposed to 100 tons for the MX 8 pointed toward a "new direction in arms control" and would ease the problem of missile vulnerability. 
Press
A fami~y of Denham Springs, La., dries off belongings as flood waters receded from towns along the Pearl River, but water remained high from LeafRiverflooding in Hattiesburg andPetal thatforced about 5000 peoplefrom their homes. 
Arms agency nominee 
Senate to decide Adelman's fate 
WASHINGTON (AP) -With a close Senate vote nearing on Ken­neth L. Adelman's nomination as nuclear arms control chief, a House subcommittee was told yesterday that the agency he would direct has been so "gutted, purged and starved" that it is unable to do its job. 
"It is not going too far to say that the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency would be an international joke, were it not that the situation is so tragic," Dr. William H. Kincade, 
executive director of the Arms Con­trol Association, a non-profit, non­partisan research group on arms control policy, said in prepared tes­timony. 
The Senate is beginning debate today and is to vote Thursday on President Reagan's nomination of Adelman, 36, deputy U.S. represent­ative to the United Nations, to succeed the ousted Eugene V. Ros­tow as the agency's director. 
Adelman's supporters and op­ponents both predict a close vote, but one of the leaders of the Republican opposition, Sen. Charles Mathias of Maryland, concedes that "you have to give the presumption to the president." 
The testimony of Kincade, a for­
mer naval intelligence officer and author on arms control issues, was 
seconded by other high former offi­
cials of the arms control agency in appearances before the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on in­ternational security. 
Former agency director Paul C. Warnke, who led the Carter ad­ministration's arms control negotiat­ing team with the Soviet Union, said the agency is useless "unless the president and his secretary of state have a genuine interest in arms con­trol." 
Herbert Scoville Jr., who was as­sistant director of the agency from 1963 to 1969, said the agency "would appear at the moment to be in no position to carry out on even a modest scale its most basic function of providing the president with 
CHAUTAUQUA 

apple presents 
GEORGE HARRISON 
and friends in 
THE CONCERT FOR BANGLADESH 
a.pplt/10rh ctnlury·fo• rtltO\t ltfhnl(olore IOngtnal Sound frock .bodoblt On Applt ltcotds J 
Thursday, April14 7, 9, and 11 Admission $1 Presented by NO Student Union 
~-----------------------­
:  NOW IS THE TIME TO RESERVE A SUMMER  :  
1  JOB IN THE ARMY RESERVE.  1  
I1 1 I  Why should you think about a summer job now? Because the Army Reserve has many different skills available in the South Bend area. Right now, we are looking for people who  I1 1 1  
I  would like to be specialists in administration and personnel  1  
I  motor transport operators able to handle anything from  1  
I  jeeps to tractor-trailers, cannon crew members, military  I  
I  police, or instructors.  1  
I  The Army Reserve will guarantee you summer skill training  I  
I  in advance, if you qualify. You will attend monthly weekend meetings at your local Reserve unit. Then, this summer and  I I  
:  next, you will take your basic and skill training full time. And  I  
you get full-time Army pay of over $1000 each summer.  
:  If you want to get a head start on the summer job hunting  :  
I  season, call or stop by to see:  I  
1 1  Sgt. David Messner 125 S. Hill Street  1 1  
I  South Bend-····927-3156  I  
I  I  
:  Army Reserve. Be All You Can Be.  :  

recommendations on arms control policies." 
Kincade voiced concern about the "apparent gutting, purging and starving of the government's institu­tional base for arms control policy and research." 
He said the agency staff has been reduced in recent years from 199 to 154, a cut of 25 percent. He said 30 percent ofthe agency's top positions are either vacant or are filled by ac­ting officials. 
Adelman's opponents argue that he lacks experience in arms control and would be an ineffective adv­ocate within the Reagan administra­tion. His allies say he is a student of the field and an outspoken suppor­ter of deep cuts in nuclear weaponry. 
------------------------~ 
~--------------------------------------------------~--­
_Tuesday, Aprill2, 1983-page 6 
Editorials 
A cry for help -are we ready? 
Be prepared -the motto of the Boy Scouts of America But what does preparedness mean to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame? Are we, as communities responsible for the health and well-being of over 13,000 men and women, able to intelligently and ef­fectively handle disasters or personal emergencies? Are we informed enough to know when to help and whom to seek in the case ofan emergency? 
Notre Dame has been literally pock-marked by Father Edward Sorin's greatest fear: fire. Fire has claimed the original log chapel, the first administra­tion building, and Saint Edward's Hall. Last year, a fire in the priest's residence, Corby Hall, almost claimed that structure, and many priests living there. Last fall, a false alarm at Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's created unbelievable confusion as few students knew how to evacuate their rooms. As Notre Dame and Saint Mary's continue their campaign to install more sprinkler sys­tems and fire alarms, they are slowly realizing that the safety of many students was, for many years, jeopardized. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have failed to consider one important element in the prevention of fires and emergencies: the people. While posters bold­
ly state the directions for tornado alerts, fire drills, and 
first aid procedures in dormitories and classroom buildings, faculty, staff and students grow less and less aware of the need to remain alert to a possible emer­gency. 
Arecent incident involving a diabetic seizure points to the need for a more informed community. While both campuses are staffed by many professionals, those professionals cannot be in all places at all times. There must be a link between the victim(s) and the professional. That person is each member ofthis com­munity. 
While it would be naive to suggest that every stu­dent and staff member learn the basics of firefighting, first aid, and disaster assistance, it is quite reasonable to ask that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's create a program to train its students in how to handle the everyday emergency. 
It is essential that the University and College make 
the information plastered on walls and in books more 
accessible to students, to at least provide each mem­
ber of the community with names, addresses, and phone numbers of those to reach in the case of an emergency, and a list which enumerates the proce­dure by which to determine how and when to contact health and safety authorities. 
Such a program already exists within the upper ec­helons of dormitories and classroom buildings. Resi­dent assistants, hall directors, rectors, and appointed staff members are in charge of handling emergencies in their buildings. But as so often happens, people lose their speed and accuracy when they do not practice their skills. And for those who do not know the first recourse in the event of an emergency, the procedures and plans of personal and community protection appear even less clear. 
The two campuses have made great strides toward perfecting their responses to emergencies. What is now needed is for the professionals in charge to com­municate their expertise to other members of the community so that come the smell of burning wood, sight of green clouds, or hearing of a siren, the two communities may respond quickly and effectively. 
With God at the goal line 
To some, it sounded like t.he fervor of high school football: here was Thurl Bailey, North Carolina State forward, proclaiming to the world, "Some say we are a team of destiny, some say God is on our side. I believe He is." 
Steve Pogue 
Nothing New 
N.C. State had just edged Houston on a prayer­shot-turned-pass to win the national title. ''I'd like to thank God for us being ere, because without Him, we wouldn't be." 
Most theologians state that God doesn't take sides, especially in athletic contests. (Although most theologians never talked with Bear Bryant.) So It is wrong, they would tell us, to invoke the deity in Albuquerque or on Stepan Court 3. 
Yet a perusal of the ranks of pro-athletes reveals a signitlcant number of players who speak about God in both victory and defeat. 
john Hannah: "I am prob ably more intense now than ever becausejesus is in my audience and He expects more ofme than I expect from myself." 
Archie Griffin: "It gives you a goal ofplaying for something other than the sake of winning -God's glory. It gives you more incentive to win." 
Carl Lewis: "You're not getting the full benetits of life if you're not a Christian. That's just the way it is." 
Julius Erving: "You are looking at an in­dividual who for .30 years was looking good on the outside but was certainly hitting a lot of peaks and valleys on the inside. Now, since I asked Christ to come into my life to be my Lord and Saviour, there are still some peaks and valleys, but I am being operated on by the greatest Doctor of all time." 
To the skeptic, thanking Christ for today's winning game is no different than trusting in that special pair of socks or that lucky medal. But the image of"jocks for jesus" who are too naive or brain damaged to see past this faith is really a misconception. 
Pat Richie worked with Notre Dame ath­letes and now is Christian-oriented Athletes in Action representative to the San Francisco 49ers. Richie tlnds Christian athletes insight· ful rather than naive: "Professional people of­ten climb the ladder of success only to tlnd near the end of their life that the ladder is leaning against the wrong wall. 
"Pro-athletes reach the top of that ladder much more quickly than other professionals. They have already experienced the emptiness of the things most people spend a lifetime looking for. They have had the prestige, the money, and the women and see that there is not too much to all this. They look to some­thing more," Richie says. 
Most of us earthlings will never be offered S 1 million a year to work in the Meadowlands. We won't model underwear or promote car rental companies. We won't even make the crowd shots in the Lite beer commercials. We just want to win our tlrst two bookstore games and graduate with a decent job offer. But in a time when you can't tell your kid brother to emulate the Mercury Morrises or the Art Schlichters, it's refreshing to see people who have discovered that "the real thing" isn't al­ways found in things. 
P. 0. Box Q  
Alcoholfacts DearEditor: During my reading of the spring break incident in The Observer, I kept expecting to see some mention of alcohol abuse as a causative factor. Neither Dean Roemer nor the student in­volved mentioned it, except to say that The Button pushed beer. It seems the basic problem must be dealt with or the Univer­sity and its students, faculty, and alumni will continue to be embarrassed by incidents like this and the one with the Rugby team in Houston. A simple booklet for teenagers called Facts and Fantasies About Alcohol, by Wrenn and Schwarzrock, puts it rather suc­cinctly: "A pharmacist classitles alcohol as a depressant, working on the central nervous system. It apparently anesthetizes some of the cells in that part of the brain called the hypothalamus ... The anesthetizing of the cells in the hypothalamus also releases the control one has on certain kinds ofbehavior. A person may do things he wouldn't do when he is fully responsible for his conduct. He may behave in stupid ways if he has lost  temporarily some ofhis ability to control his about it. At the other extreme, this male fan­behavior." tasy of rape permeates our media and The booklet is published by American emerges in some very subtle ways. One ex­Guidance Service, Inc., Publishers' Building, ample of this is in Duran Duran's song Circle Pines, Minnesota 55014. "Hungry Like the Wolf' in which a woman is john L. Rosshirt being pursued. Meshed into •he strains of music at the end ofthe song are the screams of a frightened woman, not one who isMale myths enjoying this chase. It is the same male power fantasy at workabout rape Excuses for the men are taken from tht· standard repertoire of myths: that theDearEditor: woman provoked the violence by her dressViolence is an inevitable part of our or behavior, that the man is simplyculture, which we as a community must overcome by sudden lust and has no controltight. One of the most intolerable forms of over his actions (does that also go for thoseviolence is rape. There are so many myths who cheered at the New Bedford rape?),surrounding this violation that it is easy for that beautiful women are raped becausesome to say that "the woman asked for it" they have caused a man to lose control (butand for them to never recognize the horror how does that explain the rape ofa two-year­and degradation such a crime entails. old infant or an 80-year-old woman?), andThe horror of this crime is trivialized in most mythical of all -that the woman en­thousands of examples. This trivialization joys it.begins at one extreme in the recent portrayal by Hustler magazine of the gang These myths even affect factual reportings rape of a waitress on a pool table, in which of rapes in which the woman is described as she enjoys the act. It is very important to "attractive" (even though she's not) or in realize that her "enjoyment" is part of the which her trauma is treated with insen­male fantasy of rape. Contrary to popular sitivity. An example ofthis is the gang rape of belief, women do not enjoy rape, and live in a I 7-year-old woman in Boston. The police fear ofit, much more than they ever fantasize ser •cant involved said that "she was 'badly  shaken' but was not seriously injured." How strongly our society believes these myths is reflected by columnist Ellen Good­man in her article, "Reaction to Gang Rape." She says, "There is an unwillingness on the part of some men to give women the power to detlne the difference between sex and rape with a single word, 'No."' Perhaps rape will always be an ines­capable part of our society, but as members of the community we can alleviate some of the occurances and pains of this crime by . educating ourselves about rape myths, eliminating insensitive reporting and, most fundamentally. by understanding and upholding that it is the woman's right to say "No." Mary• Ellen Sternitzke Notre Dame Women's Caucus Editor'sNote: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the editorial page. Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone num­ber and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproduc­tions, carbon copies. or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not act:.. pv able. All letters are subject to editing.  


Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief. ..........................David Dziedzic Saint Mary's Editor ...............Anne Monastyrski Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe !1/Jorts Editor .............................Michael Riccardi The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn Features Edttor............................Sarah Hamilton versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
NewsEditor.................................Mark Worscheh Photo Editor....................................... Scott Bower curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Department Managers 
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Business Manager ........................ Daniel< I'Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto _and thefree expression ofvarying opinions on_campus, through letters, is encouraged. 1 Controller............................................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager........................... Bruce Oakley Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 
Sports Brie_b 
By The Observe; and The Associated Press 
Seve Ballesteros, bolstered by a birdie-eagle start, took advantage of Tom Watson's three-putt self-destruction and stalked unchallenged to a four-stroke victory yesterday in the day­late windup of the 47th Masters golf tournament. Ballesteros, 26, a Spaniard who twice has declined credentials to play on the American PGA tour, acquired his third title in golfs Big Four events with a final round 69 and a 280 total, eight strokes under par at the Augusta National Golf Club course. -AP 
An Tostal Golf Tournament signups will be 
today from 6 to 8 p.m. on the main floor of LaFortune. Two-person teams will sign up for tee times for the nine-hole scramble tourney which will be held Tuuesday ofAn Tostal. -The Observer 
The men's tenniS team travels to Evanston, Ill., today to take on Big Ten opponent, Northwestern. Tom Fallon's squad enters the match with a 17-8 record after coming off a sweep of the competition in a quadrangular match over the weekend. 
The Observer 
The HolyCross softballtournamentwill 
be held this weekend, April 15, 16, 1 7. There will be a short captains' meeting today in the Little Theater in LaFortune at 6:45 p.m. Pairings will be handed out and any questions will be answered. The meeting should last only about I 0 minutes. If a representative or captain from a team cannot attend the meeting, call Ed Cunningham at 3176 between 4 and 5:30p.m.. -The Observer 
The billiard tournament finals will be held 
today at 8 p.m. in the pool room in the basement of LaFortune. 
Everone is invited to attend. -The Observer 
Interhall baseball captains must get in touch 
with the interhall office today to find out when games are scheduled and when you are to provide umpires. Games will begin tomorrow with rescheduled rain-out contests. -The Observer 
continuedfrom page 12 
helped my attitude toward playing football again." 
Marshall's injury may have anoth­er positive meaning that is more hid­den. It seems that, over the years, it has almost been a prerequisite for outstanding Irish defensive lineman to suffer with their injuries before attaining stardom. 
Steve Niehaus, an All-American in 
1975, and Scott Zettek, a 1980 All­
American, suffered through not one 
but two knee surgery's before their 
selections to the elite squads. 
Jeff Weston, starting offensive tackle for the New York Giants and defensive tackle for Notre Dame from 1974-78, had knee surgery in 1976 before becoming a stalwart on the 1977 national championship team as well as the 1978 Cotton Bowl champs. Kevin Griffith's knee also went under the knife in 1980. Last year, though, he was the leader of the outstanding Notre Dame "Gold Rush." 
"Ifyou would talk with those guys 
from the past, I bet they would say 
that those injuries were really good 
for them," says Marshall. "I think that 
it made them work much harder to 
realize their goals and bring out 
more oftheir talent. 
"I feel I can come back like they 
did. I have a lot ofconfidence in my 
abilities -the guys on the team 
know that." 
The year layoff, though, has hurt 
Marshall in the early portions of the 
Tuesday, April 12, 1983 -page 7 
• • • Marshall 
spring session. 
"It takes away a lot of concentra­tion," admits Marshall who is bat­tling two-year starter Jon Autry for the starting nose tackle position. 
"What I have especially noticed is that it has taken me longer to read blocks, and a middle guard like me can be blocked from anywhere. My stances and starts from the line have also been sloppy and slower. 
"Missing a whole year is going to do that, and I realize I can't make up what I lost in a year in the seven or eight practice sessions we have had 
so far." 
Such realizations keep things in perspective for Marshall. He under­stands that performances from the past will not automatically lead him to regain his former starting role. 
"I wouldn't want it like that at all," 
says Marshall. "Jon is a good player 
who did a good job last year. As far as 
I'm concerned, I'm second string. 
I'm just taking things as they come." 
One of the greatest detriments of his l:l\'offwas the fact that he picked up a lot of weight. After weighing as much as 282-pounds he has lost 22 pounds. He hopes to get down to his normal 245-pound playing weight for the fall. 
"How much I weigh won't really concern me so long as I'm in the best possible shape that I can be," adds Marshall. 
Thus, for now, the spring is just the springboard to what he hopes can be a ressurection of a most promising career. 
"My goals for this spring are to really get down the techniques that my position requires and Jose the rustiness that I still have," he says. "Then in the summer I'm really going to work to get into the best . shape that I can. That way I'll be ready in the fall. Then I just have to take it from there and see what hap­
pens." 
And if all things fall into place, Tim Marshall may be once again -like his first two years-just too good to keep out ofthe lineup. 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Yesterday's Results 
SMC1 Real Farley Women Don't Ltve in Slanlord 21. Tn· Beta Bombers 3 We're Not Btg. we·re Not ... 21. McCandless Mas· hers 5 Cameras 15, Beafn 4 Ballhandlers 15. Mauve Palletes 2 
SMC2 Mork and H1s Skibbolettes 21. .Ftve Orphans 8 F1ve ChiCks Who D1g Bobo 15. Four Elves and the Keebler Cook•e Tree 3 Double Trouble Plus Three 21. 71 3 The French Connect1on over Hopeless Hoopers by forf9lt 
SMC3 The Blow Offs 21, MK TV Crew 7 Rudy Kaplensky s Athlet•c OUJntet over Out to Em· barrass Our Brothers by forfeit Ch1ppendales 15. House Coat Hustlers 3 Boom Boom s Bombers 15. Real Women Do Sho .t Hoops3 
SMC4 Pretenders 21, The G-Spots 18 Flutd Fun 15, We Don t Kneel 3 R1m Wreckers 21. Entropy 3 Negligence 21. D•ehards 15 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classtfleds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsertion. All class1fieds must be prepa1d. 
e1ther 1n person or through the mail. 
1Classifieds 
THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM COMES TO ATTENTION SENIORS• Order your When We needed four dates to our formal NOTRE DAME!!! The Notre Dame Stu· Sen1or Class personalized mug w1th your crash 
dent Players present the mag1c of MAN dorm rep or •n Student Actlvttles Off1ce by We lookedtotheguyswho knewtodtne& 
OF LA MANCHA. com1ng to the stage of Wed 4/13. Only $8 00 dash 
Washtngton Hall on April 21,22, and 23 Mel was alone at Rafferty's 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 House for sale. Umvers1ty He1ghts. 3 
~__NO_T_IC_Es___jl ll,___FO_R_R_EN_T___.II._____F_O_RS_A_LE___, 
at 8 p.m. T1ckets go on sale Wednesday, COUNTDOWN QUIZ WHOSE Rob was dnv1ng the car through the trees4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all bedrooms. $12.000 total lmmedtate April 13, at the Student Umon ticket MEASUREMENTS ARE 36-24·36 (and Meg was guz2llng large brews at autilities Included June or Sept Call 319·
TYPING. Jacl<•e Boggs. 684-8793 Terms 319·3228735. Pat office ST Prtces are $3 50 tn advance those are just the d1mens1ons of hiS Lounge called Jays
322·8735 Patty 
and $4 at the door There are only three head)? Th1s ugly man w•ll be revealed Danny-Mo was followtng an old fag EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO 13 COLOR TV 277-8534 AFTER 6 mghts thts year. so get your tickets early. MONDAY' Look for posters! through a maze TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES 
902 N NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS. 
remember what happened to Cabaret Sr Martetta thought we couldn't get dates FU.LLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE, 
CALL 287·5162. First class round trip ticket to tickets' Don't miss the best show of the LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL But we shOwed her even though 11 was
GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON 
anywhere United lfles. You can fly season-MAN OF LA MANCHAIll! SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS lateHEAT. $335/MONTH 684-0933 (LOCAL 
Typmg, my home. Experienced in all home and to somewhere else (Hawaii!) 
BUY YOUR LIL SIB A We tned to go ethmc ·at the Great Wall 
CALL)
phases of college typing 277 ·3085. over the summer lor one cheap price. The Ark is coming! LIL SIBS WEEKEND T·SHIRT But we d•ned and dashed · That was all Call Leon 6740. 
ON SALE AT BOTH DINING HALLS But th•s pleased BuSSa and OD FREE RENT· Hous~ Sit for faculty mem­DURING DINNER HOURS As they had the wa1tress on 1 knee ber. summer. 319·322-8735 Pat 
RALPH LAUREN SHIRTS AVAILABLE Want to hear a bedtime story? UNTIL FRIDAY They sa•d they really liked to 
AT WHOLESALE PRICES FOR MEN Do you want you dreams to come true? COST IS$5 00 
AND WOMEN BY ORDER ONLY CALL Sign up lor the Tuck Ins! LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL And she replied you two are through
LOST/FOUND 
2 bedroom, Furnished apt to sublet 4 
RAMON AT 8858 For only 25 cents you can have someone SIBS L\1. SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS All beth could say was hand me the jUice summer. Call284-4429. 
tucked away. S1gn ups are 1n the dtmng As her shoulder screw got very loose FOR SALE ONE JVC STEREO halls at dmner Monday through Wednes­Are you an aspiring Charles Schultz. Gar­To AA Beth w1ll go6 bedroom house 4rent completly
LOST GOLD WATCH..WOMENS On RECEIVER BRAND NEW BOUGHT 
day ofthtsweek ry Trudeau, Jeb Cashin? Do you have un­But as for Meg & Mel who w•ll know Tuesday. Apnl 5. between 11 15 and FOR $140 BUT WILL SELL FOR $110
furmsed at 806 n stlotus also secUJty 
discovered humoroUs artistic talent just Thanx for a great time! 
alarm system connected to police· for fur­
12 30 I lost rt 1n e1ther room 119 Haggar OR BEST OFFER CONTACT IM­Get the Porn out of the ltbranes! 
begging to grace the Today Page of The Meg, Mel. & Beth Hall. or en route to or tn ·c· hne--North MEDIATLY BECAUSE I AM BROKE.
theflnformatlon call1 362· 7160 excellent 
Observer? Would you like to be an Db· PS Next crash the beers are on us. d1n1ng hall. If you·ve found •t. PLEASE call CALL3061 He's coming-to a theater near you: Tom server strip (in the comic sense) car­
condtt•on pnce negotiable 
Leanne at #7753 or #8983 Reward of­Marshalek. Ugliest Man on Campus toonist? The Observer is looking lor Hey Mr Bartender (P M ) Hop1ng for a fered for 11"s return. Your attentton regard­STEREO SYSTEM. 7-wt Rece•ver Spkrs. 1983 . campus comic strips lor next year. II you ratncheck for breakfast-even 1f I am just •ng this matter •s deeply apprectated• 
have the talent, we have the paper. Sub­an ·average· ttme. You have my# ktddo! MECHANICS is just a FRAME of mind mit examples to: The "Yes, I want to be FOUND A Basketball at Stepan. To cla•m 
rich and famous" cartoon_ contest. 
call8629 
.___w_A_N_TE_o___.l l""'"~;:::s 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU. HAPPY Managing Editor, The Observer , P. 0. On behalf of the Semor Class. we would BIRTHDAY TO YOU. HAPPY BIRTHDAY Box Q. Questions? Call Margaret. 239-like to thank the followmg for a wonderful 
$50 REWARD!!! Daniel Hechler black 
DEAR KATHY. HAPPY BIRHTDAY TO 5313. THE MAIN EVENT· 8111 Hennes­
t1me at jacket w1th red ms•de. Lost 1n South Dm1ng GRAD STUDEI\IT SEEKS SAME FOR · YOU LOVETJW 
sy, Moya N•ckodem. Cathy Murray. Enn Hall before Easter. Please call 277-2222 ROOMATE·HICKORY COME SEE Foley, P Mortensen, C.DeBoer, CWanted GRADUATION TICKETS!! Wtll
NO QUESTIONS VILLAGE. STARTING JUNE/CALL FA MARIO PEDIS Schumacher, M Scanlon, J. Wightk1n.
Pay $$$ Call Debb•e 272-9709. AHer JIMMYGFRED 239·5845 
Arent you one of the SHOOTING Bookstore Debut M.E. Shelley. A Garruto, J Bagllm, M1t 00. 
Wednesday. 4 45 PM Lost · Treasury cashier's check (ROTC) Wanted Female Roomate for 83·84 at Stepan #2 
STARS???? Kammsk•. M Monn. B. Bouhall, T. Con· 
roy, M Blackburn. M Auer, D. Tobel· If found. please return to me so that I can Campus Vtew Apts Non-Smoker please 
mann, N Samberg, C Toomey, M Kmg.
Joe Snyder for Mr. Campus
get the new one before next year. (It's Call234·4250 a her 11.00 p.m. RIDERS NEEDED TO EASTERN PA. 

N Jones. L. Welby. A Throckmorton, P
Go Joe-Baby! 
been ccancelled). Please call 8332. OR NORTHERN N.J. OR POINTS IN BE­MacDonald, K. Baugh. M Murphy, K. Kis­
PERSONALS
Wanted to sublet two bedroom 
FIREBREAKS FIREBREAKS TWEEN ALONG ROUTE 80. LEAVE ling, and K. Shannon THANK YOU!!!!! 
Found·Gold mens wnst watch 1n Steppan house/apt. from June 1 to Aug. 31 Call LATE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, Mark, Kathy, Sean, and Patty. 
FIREBREAKS
Call1414 232 232-1603 or 233·9872 Call after RETURN SUNDAY. CALL MIKE AT 272· 
500.p.m. The Observer Is always the Absur· 8158.
We re all gmng to d1e
LOST-a gold cyllndncal DIGITAL derl!!! 
An Tostal Golf Toumamentl WATCH on Wed. 4·6-83 REWARD! If Need ride to NORTHERN ILLINOIS 
GOOD LUCK SWATCH! DO tT UP Open to all, whether you can h1t the little 
found, please call Anne at 2968 UNIV. this weekend call JODI at 284· EARN $5000 this summer pamtlng VEEERY NICE• AHRHAAARRRRRH!'!ll 
Hey hey Annette• No more monkeytng th1ngornot
5098 houses 1n your hometown Contact Place­
around · go out there and do your th tng! Sign-ups are Tonight, from 6 -8 p.m.
LOST: One Pair of Bronze/Brown metal ment Office for more 1nfo and apphcat1on NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS
ThiS ttme Ill be cheenng you on GOOD on LaFortune's Main Floor. 
framed GLASSES. Lost '" the v•cmity of at Room 213. Adm Bldg STUDENTS Do you have a pan and a
LUCK! V 
STANFORD lobby aher the Mr Stanford NEEDED LANSING of humor? THE OBSERVER is
RIDE TO ON sense PUCKER UP AND PLANT ONEill!!! Contest on Fnday Apnl 8 They have a FRIDAY. APRIL 15 PLEASE CALL Today-Kim "The Tigress" Greene's B­E lookmg lor campus comic srrips lor next PLAY KISSER, THE BEST THING TO htgh sentimental value betng that wtthout DAVIDAT1101 daytsLake B.Burt Day! Kisses given lor year. Send examples of your strip ideas HIT N.D. SINCE SMC PARIE­
mc2 AxBy
them I cannot see!' If found please call or proof of Bultman's plunge. Redeem at to: Managing Editor, The Observer, P. 0. TALSIIII!SIGN UPS: TUESDAY AND
C(ab)
return them to J1m at 8708-07, 329-30 213 PW. Happy 8-Day Kimi-The Fox 
(ba) Y BoxQ. WEDNESDAY APRIL 12 AND 13TH Stanford. (REWARD) GOING TO THE WINDY CITY THIS 
mXb314159F LAFORTUNE LOBBY 6-8 PM. THE WEEEKEND? NEED A RIDER? I NEED WANTED: FIRST ONE HUNDRED MEN AND ONE 
ma
LOST IN Semor Bar !asl Satuday mght A RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS FRIDAY, Exlenor frame back packs Do you have M1ke Sulhvan has a nose for what s news HUNDRED WOMEN ARE ELIGIBLE til! 
(4/9/83) a llght,.e•ght. navy blue jacket COMING BACK SUNDAY. CALL TOM one you would ltke to sell? Maybe two or tn sports Read h1s column in the sports THE 1983 ANTOSTAL COMMITTEE. 
With NOTRE DAME BAND 1n yellow on AT8737 three? Call Jeb. J1m. or Ed at 8641 Thank GAME OF THE YEAR ONE TIME ONLY sect1on of The Observer. the back and ND BAND OF THE FIGHT· you THE FIFTH EDITION OF THE ESOP· lNG IRISH on front If found (You II know Need riders to Champaign,( U. of I. ). HAG US CONSTRICTORS F•du· 
whether 1t belongs to you. or not) call Leaving thursday, April 14 back on DearS.H., DIRCT FROM THE THIRD FLOOR OF I ain't doin' ----tOday! Do you want to see "'The Boneheads' m JACK at 8876 or 8872. Sunday. Call Pat M. #3498 Believe It or not, no more abuse. Ac­THE LIBRARY' The Observer every single day next 
tually, I'm honestly sorry if I offended TODAY·· TliESDAY · · 6 15 · · Coming Soon year? If not, you better come up w1th a RAMON LACSON · YOUR I.D. IS AT Motorcycle ..Look•ng to buy a used. but you or was a pain In the ... production BOOKSTORE9 1n the Ultimate Fnsbee Tournament better com•c strip. The Observer is THE OBSERVER cared tor. tounng b1ke 650 cc m•n M1ke room. All in good fun. Us sports people GO GERRY' Ill' Doug and the Slugs looktng for new campus com1c stnps lor 
at 8947 have to have our fun sometimes, as next year Send examples of your talent lost navy blue. athlet•c bag w/ you must know. SENIOR CLASS MUGS Order by noon famous quote #69· to The Anyth•ng But the Boneheads books,clothes.checkbook F:nd any ol WANTED A1ders needed to Iowa C•ty M.S. Wed 4/13 1n Student Achvrt•es Office or Hey, guys, lets make a Whale ComiC Stnp Contest. Manag1ng Ed1tor. above rtems w/ Fns1no •d call M•ke.287· Leav1ng Thurs. 4/14, return1ng Sun 4/17 P.S. I still think you and Mary are wtth dorm rep S $8.00 payable upon sandwich! The Observer. P 0 BoxO. The Observer 4046 Call Joe at 277-0885 siamese twins, though. ordenng GD Ouest•ons? Call Margaret, 239·5313 


-~-~-·~~~~--~------­
------..._­
Tuesday, April12, 1983-page 8
The Observer 
• • • Bookstore 

little in action over the weekend. First-round action will finally wind down today as the last teams to make the final 256 will be determined. GerryFaust's team is among those that will beplaying today. 
continuedfrom page 12 
"It was a mismatch. 1 felt sorry for him," Collins remarked later. "But you can tell him that he had a cute belly button." 
At any rate, the game started with 
Varner hitting a jumper from the 
corner. The Captain Wags team hit 
the next shot, a bomb from the right 
side, to tie the score and send a tlur­
ry of Oreo cookies flying from the 
crowd, most of whom were cheer­
ing for the underdog. 
Captain Wags kept the game close 
at 5-3 with two more bombs but at: 
ter that Double Decker easily pulled 
away. The Captain Wags attack was 
strictly one long shot after another 
the rest of the game and they could 
never quite catch up. 
"The game was definitely played above the rim," Captain Wags' Pat Wagner said afterwards. At least the Captain Wags team figured that out ahead of time and never really tried to go inside against the much taller Double Decker. 
"We were really excited about playing them," continued Wagner. "We had a lot offun, especially with the crowd. They were great." 
Varner, Stacey Toran and Casey Newell led the way for Double Decker. Varner hit on six of eight shots to lead all scorers while Toran 
Hot streak continues 
Golfers grab second in tournament 
By MATIJOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
Once again, Coach Noel O'Sullivan's golfteam brought home "a piece of the action," as they finished second in the 10-team In­diana Invitational which ended yes­
terday in Indianapolis. 
The team that grabbed the first-place honors was Ball State, the same team that captured first place ahead offourth place Notre Dame at the Ball State Invitational last weekend. 
This weekend, however, the Irish progressed to the second slot in the final standings of the two-day event, bringing home the runner-up trophy. 
"As long as we keep bringing home a piece of the action," said O'Sullivan, "I'll be happy." 
The head coach definitely has reason to be happy to this point in the season. The 8-1 record the Irish compiled this weekend at the In­diana Invitational boosts the season ledger to an impressive 31-7 mark. 
"We're somewhat pleased and 
delighted so far," beamed O'Sullivan 
after the tournament, "and shouldn't 
we be?" 
Junior Dave Pangraze held high 
honors for the Irish for the second 
consecutive week. His overall 155 
for the two days was 11 shots over 
par and 8 shots shy of medalist Dean 
Prange of Ball State. 
Second for the Irish were fresh­man John O'Donovan and senior Craig Peters, both at 158. Frank Leyes took fourth place with a 159, and· fifth went to Dave Moorman with a 164. 
As a team the Irish finished with a 794, 46 strokes behind Ball State's 748. 
This Thursday, the Irish will bring 
their good record to the Kepler In­vitational in Columbus, Ohio. The Kepler, regarded as the most pres­tigious ofall golf tournaments in the 
Midwest, will be another good test for the Irish squad. 
"We've got to continue with what we're doing now," said O'Sullivan, "but look for the Kepler as a 
springboard for tournaments come." 
Wild Wheel  Every Tuesday night in the Terrace Lounge,  
f'11,4nb R·n~a~.f\.J6 I+ &44..1~~  ~i~~~~~=~ Crab Races!  
FREE Registration  

at 8:30p.m. select a crab from our stable, and anxiously await the 9:00p.m. post time! Prizes will be awarded to the winners. 
Between races, drink discount prices will be spinning on our Wild Wheel! Wherever the wheel stops, that's the price for drinks during the next 15 minutes, as low as 50¢! 
Come out. of your shell at the Terrace Lounge every Tuesday for South Bend's only Wild Wheel Crab Races! 

to 
and Newell were 5-of-6 and 4-of-5, 
respectively, in the game. 
Senior John Rudser didn't do quite as well in his game against Name Withheld Upon Request, though. His 1-of-29 shooting in no way helped the cause of Smokin' Joe's Chicago Knockers, as they dropped a 21-13 decision. 
Rudser later issued a statement on his performance. "I can attribute my shooting success today to excellent defense -usually there were three or four· men guarding me and denying me the ball. 
"But I was hot, and they knew it. Everyone who watched the game knew it too. They knew that at any momemt I was about to explode for another basket." 
Rudser, by the way, said that he learned to shoot a basketball some­where in Indiana making himself a leading candidate for the Hoosier Award. 
Bruce Oakley paved the way for Name Witheld Upon Request with his eight points. Bookstore Commis­
sioner Dave Dziedzic made his at· 
tempt to outdo Rudser as he made 
only 3-of-16. 
Tony Masi of Stanford Hall took his own shot at Rudser's mark in put· ting up 45 shots, as his team, 365, beat Team 37 by a close 21·19 cnt. Fortunately for Masi, he hit on 12 of his shots. 
Quarterback Scott GrooqJ.s gunned home 11 of 18 to lead Cash Amberg ... over The Celtics 21-11. 
And it looks like Hal Von Wyl had 
better stick to kicking footballs. 
Despite his own 3-of-16 shooting, 
Von Wyl's team, Knockouts, were 
still able win 21-1 1 over The Es­
sence ofFunk. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -Today's most interesting game should turn out to be Old Men on the Block vs. The Esophogus Constrictors at 6: I 5 on Bookstore 9. Old Men on the Block is Gerry Faust's team ... Com­missioner Dziedzic praised the ex­cellent work of the scorekeepers despite some of the poor weather conditions. 
Bookstore dribbles on. • • 
Yesterday's Results 
Stepan 1 The Tragedies over Moon Dogs by 12 Capta1n Crunch & .over One More Chance by 16 Team #430 over 201 East by tO Double Decker Oreo Cook1e over Captain Wags & The Sleepwalkers by 14 
Stepan 2 Nutmeggers Are Back Aga1n over Sexually Oriented or Otherwise Perverse by 17 Team #47 over The Phlegm Phhngers by 7 John DeLorean Says Coke Is It over The Secret Of MacBeth by 4 Runmng Rebels over Chatrmen of The Boards by 7 
Stepan3 WEBB's Encore over Two Eskimos ..by 11 Hey Vince Dooley over Bob M. & The W1ndex Gang-Bob M. by 8 The Scroggs overTearn #54 by 16 Knockouts over The Essense Of Funk by 10 
Stepan 4 T earn #365 overTaam #37 by 2 Team #406 over Team #59 by 11 
P1kes Peaks over As Solid As A Fieldhouse by 9 
Geekhunters over Team #365 by 10 
Stepan 5 
Oh, What The Hell over Shoot That Ball by 9 ~~e Last Of The Stoosters over The Pranctng Irish by 
Burger Barn Boxers over M1ke Hunt . by 7 
Tean #139 over Team #89 by 4 
Stepan& 
Team #371 over Team #218 by 9 ;ancelled Due To Lack Of Interest over Team #50 by 
Team #30 over Team #91 by 5 Gramkes Gornllas over Big Ben .by 16 
COUNSELINE 
A new serv:ce to the NO community 
239·7793 
HOURS: 4·9Dm Mon-Thurs. 
Counsel me ts a free. confidenttal telephone servtce that offers professtonally taped rnateria''5 that cover a w1de variP.~~.~!..s.tudent ~oncerns 
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Fnendsll1p 8utld1ng 7 Dealmg wdh Construc11ve Cr1!1C1Sm 8 Dea11ng w1th Anger 9 Understandmg Jealousy and How 
TO Deal With It 
10 How to Say .. No·· 16 Becommg Open to ~hers 18 Dat1ng SkillS 30 Aruuety and Posstble Ways to Cope 
Wllhll 
32 How to Deal w1th Lontmess 33 How to Handle Fears 35 Bu1ldmg self·Esteem & Conl1dence 37 RP.IaKtng Exerc1ses 38 Coptng wtth Stress 39 Female Sell Rote·· 
Changes and Stress 
44 Learnmg to Accept Yourself 61 What 1S Therapy & How to Use It 83 How to Cope wttr. a Broken 
RelaTtonshtp 85 Undcrstanamg Gr~ef 90 Hetpmg a Fnend 160 Early s1gns of an Alcohol Problem 161 Aesponstble Dec.tstons About 
Dnnktng 402 Setf·AsseJ\:veness 431 What 1s Depress1on 432 How to Deal wtlh Depress10n 433 Depress ton as a Ltfe Style 
478 Becommg Independent from Parents 419 Dealmq wi!h Alcaholtc Parents 491 S•Jtr.tdat Cns1s 4901 Rt)(".Q90iltl'lg SutC•dat PotPnl!al 
tn Other~ 
49J Hl'!tptna Samt::?~~ ~~ '! Su,cJdal Cnsts 
Counseline is a completely anonymous servoce offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO 
For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between9-5 
-·CLIP AND SAVE·· 
Bookstore9 5 Of a K1nd over Macrt"s Prefered .by 10 3 Beers & 2 Grape .over South Bend Tards by 6 Paul Penta-Ton1cs over Team #6 by forfeit MacNamera·s Band over The Fest Ouestors by 5 
Bookstore 10 
Name Withheld Upon Request over Smokin Joe·s Chicago Knockers by 8 No, But Senously, over 5 Domers Who Got Thetr 
R1ngs By Spnng by 12 US over Team #356 by 4 Not AII-Assoc1ated With ..over Wombats by 2 
Lyons 11 And. We're Out over Virtual Gods by 18 Team #111 over Were 0·31n Bookstore by 3 Pangloss L. Schindler .over Team #119 by 15 Cash Amberg over The Celt1cs by 12 
. Lyons12 
Our Last Chance To Take No Pnsoners over 5 Mannes Who .by 17 Cuban Mtsstle Cr1sts over The King & Hts Creatures 
by8 
The Purdue Hockey Team over 5 Greek Geeks by3 Team #130overTeam #24522-20 
Today's Games Stepan 1 We're Short But Slow v. Gerry"s Funny Bunmes 
(4:00) Team #289v. Team #176(4 45) 
F.O.A.K. v. The Phyght1ng Photons . (5 30) You·ve Gatta Want It v. Team #349 (6:15) 
Stepan2 Team #277 v. The Marauders (4 00) Team #178v. Wed Be Good If We Had John Paxson 
(4:45) Team #65 v. Lou s Legacy Iif (5:30) Snowball 1n Hell v Steve SllpanoviCh, Dan Duff (615) 
Stepan 3 
We Go 5 v. One Last Try (4:00) Team 392 v. The Ed1tor and the Four Hubcaps (445) FQur Peons and the Most Popular Guy on Campus v. 
FLOC (5:30) Hawkeye and the Chicken Chokers v. F1ve Guys Who AI McGutre (615) 
Stepan4 
Herschel Walker .v. P O.A & I Love a Tender Offer (400) The Bnck Throwers v Stoneheads (4 45) Team #8 v. Flipper Tnpper and Three Guys w1th Joes 
(5 30) Can the Mag1c Rats W1n One Belore We Graduate v. Armed and Dangerous (6 15) 
Stepan 5 
Team #286 v. Ja·s Men (4 00) John Murphy"s Slime Tra1n IV v. Anel Sharon & Four Guys .(4 45) 
Motown v No Way For You to Stop It (Rockets Ill) (530) K1ntuckeev WeTakeAKegForAII .(6.15) 
Stepan& 
Pengutns v. Team #361 (4:00) Team #63 v. John Hinckley"s School of Esteem (445) 
Team #191 v. Showt1me (5.30) FIVe Screams from the Loft v Two Fourth Generatton Domer Brothers (6 15) 
Bookstore9 L1ck v. Spanky ..(4.00) 
J. Dead v. Staff (4 45) 
People Who Dted v. Netgt".borhood Cnsts Center (5 30) Esophagus Constnct:xs v. Old Men on the Block (615) 
Book~tore 10 The Pranksters v Three Tremendous Tan Mas­ters (4 00) B A.M M M v Y·Jur S••ter .(4 45) The Mallone K1ds v Ktng Hoosrers Shoottng C1rcus (530) Verm1n v. Dnbbhng T 3bs 11 (6 15) 
:.yons 11 
State of Confus1on" Ot1s Day and the Kn1ghts (4 00) G1ve Me the Ball v W.H. (4 45) The Kegs v Team # :9(5 30) Cnsto & the Wrapuoo v Te~"' #335 (6 15) 
Lyons12 The Torts v Team #423 (4 00) 5'6.. & Under & an Engtneer v Team #41514 45) The An Tostal Team v Captatn L1ps (5 30) Ralph1e v Patrock Ew1ng & Four Other Guys (6 15) 
The Observer Sports Extra-Trying for an encore Tuesday, Aprill2, 1983-page 9 
Bayless pitches Belles to top 
ByJUDY McNAMARA 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's softball program has come a long 'way since its humble beginning six years ago. It~ schedule has been expanded and virtually doubled in size since Head Coach Scott Beisel gained control ofthe Belles' softball program four season~ ago. 
In addition, Saint Mary's has proved itself a worthy 
contender by winning the Indiana state champion~hip 
last May which it hosted on its home field. 
Many factors have contributed to the Belles' succes~. 
but one player in particular seems to have had a special 
effect on the Saint Mary's squad. 
Senior pitching ace Mary Bayless has watched many 
ofthe changes take place and has been active in helping 
improve Saint Mary's image as a serious athletic institu· 
tion. 
"Each year we've gotten a little better," says Bayless. 
"Last year we finally put it all together and won the state 
tourney." 
Bayless has set an example for the rest of the squad as 
a true team player. Even when asked about her own 
performance, she mentions how important the entire 
team's success is for her own. 
"Last year had to be my best year because the team 
itself did so well. That has a lot to do with how well 1 
perform," Bayless confesses. 
Mary, an Evanston, Ill., native, was awarded all-state 
honors for her play in the state championship last 
spring. She has also played basketball for Saint Mary's for 
three years but decided to concentrate on softball and 
her internship during her senior year. 
"1 respect her a great deal because she hasn't lost her 
enthusiasim for playing during her senior year," says 
Coach Scott Beisel. "This has been in spite of her jug· 
gling a job as well as her school work. 
"She and her roommate Anne Armstrong, who is an all-state basketball player, have both been very patient ··during all the switching we've had to do this spring be· 
cause of the poor weather." 
Once they do begin the season, however, Mary feels 
that Saint Mary's has its work cut out for it because of 
the new league rules which it will be playing under for 
the first time this year. 
"All the missed games will hurt us because we aren't 
accumulating the points we need to secure a position in 
the new league's state play-offs," explains Bayless. 
The team's strongest asset, she feels, is its ability to 
listen. It is this quality that Bayless is confident will help 
in overcoming the disadvantage Saint Mary's faces be­
cause ofall the cancelled games. 
"Everyone's willingness to listen and learn has made 
for a very coachable team," she says. "This should pull 
us through anything we come up against this spring." 
Mary is currently majoring in social work and works 
during the summer as an assistant director of a sports 
camp for children near her home in Illinois. Her work 
with and for others has greatly affected her attitude 
toward playing sports. 
"The word 'unselfish' comes to mind when I think 
about Mary," comments Beisel. "She supports everyone regardles~ of whether she is playing or not." 
Coaching seem~ to be in Mary's future since she pos· sesse~ the main ingredients needed for succes~ in that field: knowledge of ~ports, the ability to work with others, and, most important of all, dedication to what she's committed herself. She hdps coach first ha.se when ~he's not on the mound pitching fl>r the Bc.:lles. 
Her pitching perfiJrmance h undoubtedlv one of the keys to the Bellc::~· st:a.-.<Jn, hut, onct: again. she rdu'>e'> to acct:pt tht: crt:dit f(Jr h.t:r pt:rfl>rmance. 
"Pitcht:rs can only do so much out there.·· '>ht sa;·-, "We really need good peoplt hacking us up 111 the <>Ut· field. They (the outfielders) are wh<> realh make the difference in how pitchers look during a ga~e · 
Bayits~ has played softball most ol her lilt and attest'> 
that it b her favorite '>port hecau'>e she enj<>ys bemg 
outdoors and playing a shorter '>cheduk than are played 
in mo~t of the other ~port~ at which she has c<>mpeted 
"I don't mind putting in the time n6'>e'>ary to play a 
varsity sport, hut playing under Coach Beisel ha~ made 
playing softball even more worth my time.'' 
When asked how she gets mentally ready h:>r a game 
Saint :VIary's ace said that she puts herself in pressure 
situations during her warm up. 
"I pretend that l pitching a full count while I'm 
throwing before a game, l usually need a few inning~ 
however to feel out how the other team is hitting and 
then I just take it from there". 
Mary has been very busy during her years as a Saint 
Mary's student-athlete. She has been able to handle all 
the work by staying up a little later at night and gaining 
an understanding with coaches and professors. 
A recent change in Saint Mary's policy toward its ath· 
letes' scholastic obligations is a visable sign of the col· 
lege's new support of its athletic program_ Professors 
are now required to change times of finals and other 
tests in order to accomodate every athlete's schedule. 
This has not been common practice but now should 
help greatly in Saint Mary's quest for a legitimate and 
competive athletic program. 
But it's going to take more than the college's new 
policies to successfully complete the quest. It is going 
to take outstanding players and team leaders that can 
perform well on the field. There is only one Mary Bay· 
less to go around, though. 
"Sometimes you hear a coach say that he's got a 'team' 
player or an all-around athlete and you have trouble 
believing it," says Beisel. "But Mary truly is both ofthese 
and even more." 
Now Bayless is looking ahead to her graduation. She 
has enjoyed her years as a Saint Mary's athlete but is also 
looking forward to graduating. 
"I've got good and bad feelings about leaving here, I'll 
miss all my friends and teammates but I'm ready to 
move on and start social work on a full-time basis." 
But first, there is another season to worry about. After 
six straight cancellations because of bad whether, the 
Belles are now ready to begin the season today against 
Grace College on their home field with a doubleheader 
starting at 3 p.m. 
And, once again, Mary Bayless will be ready to do 
whatever is necessary to get her team offto a good start. 
1983 SOFTBALL ROSTER 
Pitchers 
Mary BayJQ.Ss 
Sr., Evanston, Ill. 
Annie Day 
Jr., Grosse Pointe, Mich. Julie Keigher 
Soph., Mateno, Ill. 
Teresa McGinnis 
Soph., Lexington, Ky. 
Cathy Logsdon 
Fr., Se,rickley, Pa. 
The Others 
Rose Anderson 
Soph., Brielle, Ill. 
Anne Armstrong 
Sr., Sylvania, Ohio 
Katy Boldt 
Soph.; Palatine, Ill. 
Tracey Bowman 
Soph., Hopatcong, N.J. 
Colleen Cain 
Fr., West Hartford, Conn. 
Lisa Cerneka 
Jr., Crest Cove, Mo. 
Trish Gullo 
Fr., Solon, Ohio 
Mary Lynn Mulcahy 
Soph., Arlington, Ill. 
Trish Nolan 
Soph., Joliet, Ill. 
Elaine Suess 
Soph., Grand Blanc, Mich. 
Barb Theiss 
Soph., Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. 
Mary Wilson 
Sr., Montpelier, Ind. 
Diane Yasinsky 
Fr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
1983 TRACK SCHEDULE 
I 
Goshen College and Marion College  
4/05  away  
IUPU-Ft. Wayne  
~/09  away  

~nderson College and Manchester College 4/16 home 
Marion College 4/21 away 
Goshen College and Taylor College 
4/27 home 
Little State 4/30 away 
jean Kerich and her Saint Mary's track squad have suffered much the same fate as the softball team with all but one of their meets being cancelled because of poor weather. One can catch the Saint Mary's tracksters in action next on April 16 when they take on An· derson and Manchester College in a triangular home meet which begins at 10 a.m. 
1983SOFTBALLSCHEDULE 
Manchester College 3/26 away Grace College 3/29 away Notre Dame 4/05 home Valparaiso 4/07 home Earl ham College 4/09 away Grace College 4/12 home Bethel College 4/14 away Anderson College 4/16 away Huntington College 4/18 home Siena Heights College 4/23 home Butler University 4/24 home Manchester College 4/26 home Notre Dame 4/30 away Bethel College 5/03 home 
!State Tourney 5/06-5/07 IUPU-Indianapolis 
The Saint Mary's softball team has been rained out of its tirst six games during this stormy and unpredictable month of April. This is significant to the Belles this season because they now belong to a league which awards points to teams accocding to number of wins and runs scored during the season. Teams win berths to the league championship on the basis ofthe number ofpoints they have earned. The championship game will be held at Kearney State College in 
May. Head Coach Scott Beisel and his ladies will have their work cut out for them as they attempt to overcome their poor start and earn enough points to secure a position in the playoffs. The Belles could very well begin their quest for this position today in a home game against Grace College. Ground conditions permitting, the doubleheader should begin at 3 p.m. on the Saint Mary's home field behind Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Observer Tuesday, April12, 1983-page 10 
Women's Bookstore opens for fourth time 

By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
Ifyou hear the sound of bouncing basketballs coming from some­where besides Lyons, Stepan, or the bookstore today, it's because there is another basketball tournament that has opened play -Women's Bookstore. 
The tournament opened its fourth year as the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's women's answer to the original Bookstore tournament with first­round action yesterday at Saint Mary's. Sixty teams will participate, making it the biggest women's tournament to date. 
"We were hoping to get a full tournament of64 teams," says one of the Women's Bookstore commis­sioners. Kendra Erven. "Sixty teams is a good number, though, because it 
details on the game and the upcoming week, see 
gives the four seeded teams a bye in 
Mike Sullivan's story below. 
the first round." Each of the four seeds -Oreos, W~o Cares?, Last Drool ..., and We
Awaits tough MLA foes 
Ain't So Bad -will be the top seed in one of four sectionals. Three rounds of games will determine
Lacrosse destroys Mount Union 
which teams will compete in the 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
Entering Saturday's game against Midwest Lacrosse Association rival Mount Union College, the Notre Dame lacrosse team was having problems getting behind early, for­cing itself to play catch-up. The Purple Raiders from Mount Union, however, may have helped the Irish out, Notre Dame had beaten the bad­ly outmatched Mount Union team, 28-4. In the process, the Irish set a team record for most goals in the game ( 21 was the previous high) and tied a record for least goals allowed in a game -all in the same game. Fifteen different players scored for a Notre Dame team that was riddled by injuries. 
The victory lifts the Irish record 
overcome their problem -and just to 3-4 and brings the squad's MLA in time, as the toughest part of their record to 2-1. The conference M·LA schedule approaches. record now faces its most serious When the clock mercifully ran challenge of the year, though, as the 

Paolucci made 10 of her 1 1 shots, but was not even the most accurate shooter on her team. Weiss was, hit­ting all I 0 of her shots. The two of them led Pretenders to a close 21-18 victory over Team #44. The losers had a hot shooter of their own, as Patricia Stevenson made I 1-of-1 S. 
Maureen King of The Blow-offs was the high scorer of the day as she pumped in 17 of her 23 shots. Her good shooting '!JOre than offset the 
If you're a senior and have the promise ofa $10,000 career-oriented job, do you know 
what's stopping you from getting the American Express' Card? 
You guessed it. 
Nothing. 
Because American Express believes inyour future. But more than that. We believe in you now. And we're proving it. 
A $10,000 job promise. That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is 
sectional finals. The semifinals are
class of the MLA finds its way on to 
scheduled for Friday, April 22, and
the Notre Dame schedule in the 
the championship game is set for 11
next two weeks. 
a.m., April 24, just before the
The team is going to have to 
Bookstore All-Star game. 
overcome injuries -most of the 
The opening day of the tourna­
injured pt:ople should be ready for 
ment saw halfof the teams in action. 
the Spartans -but the Mount Union 
The other half of the teams will be 
game may have been just what the 
playing today. In all, 16 teams ad­
team needed -a confidence boos­
vanced to the next round, including
ter. 
two teams that won by forfeit.
IRISH ITEMS -The Irish travel 
Remarkable shooting perfor­
to East Lansing today for a 3:30 game 
mances -both good and bad ­
against the Spartans. They will then 
marked the opening day. On the 
return home to host Ohio Weslevan 
"remarkably good" side, there is 
on Saturday at 1:30. · 
joanne Weiss and Mary Paolucci. 
poor shooting of her teammates who made only S-of-31. The Blow­offs came away with an easy 21-7 win over the MK TV Crew who shot a combined 7-for-SS from the field. 
Notre Dame volleyball captain Josie Maternowski showed she has some talent in another sport as she made seven of her I 1 shots to lead Real Farley Women . . . to a 21-3 rout of the Tri-Beta Bombers. Amy Scheel of the Bombers did not have as much luck, hitting only one of I 7 shots. · 
Still, Scheel's performance was great when compared with the shooting of Trabajo's Five Orphans. Amy Tenbusch and Debbie Ficker led the Orphans' charge by hitting a combined 0-for-38. Moira Rudser. sister of Hoosier Award candidate john Rudser, who hit one of 29 in the men's competition, made the Rudsers a definite candidate for the Hoosier Family Award as she made three ofher 19 shots. In fact, the Or­phans combined for 9-of-103 shoot­ing in their 21-8 loss to Mort and his 
Skibbobolettes ... who weren't too much more accurate, making 21-of­118. 
All in all, things ran as expected in the tournament. The only change in plans was a rule that allowed games to end at 15 rather than 21 if both teams agreed. About half of the teams agreed to the change. 
Today's games will again be played at Saint Mary's beginning at 4 
p.m. The winners will advance to the next round which will be played on Saturday and Sunday at Stepan and Saint Mary's. 
Today's Games 
SMC1 TBA vs. Karen Carpenter (4) Cheerleaders 1n the Rah' vs. The Am•able Zany (4 45) Just Fast Enough vs Unknown Hoopsters (5 30) Clueless Wonders vs. Supoly (6 15) 
SMC2 Kahlua vs. Typ1cal ND Girls (4) 8-P Sw<stlers vs W1ld Women (4 45) Tw<sters vs. Oder (5 30) Goody Ten Shoes vs Challenger and the Loose T•les 
(615) 
SMC3 
Cleanup Team and Lawyer vs. lsotop1c Pseudo-xanthrocroJ (4) Leather and Lace vs. Vowel-y Girls (4 45) Hoos1er Hoopsters vs You Dnbble. We JJ Score (5 30) Pneumothorax vs Rats on the West S•de (6 15) 
even good for 12 months after you graduate. 
But why do you need the American Express Card now? 
First ofall, it's a good way to begin to establish your credit history. And you 
know that's important. Ofcourse, the Card is also good for travel,.restaurants, and ~~1opping for things like a new stereo or furniture. And because the Card is recognized and welcomed 
'Jlorldv.'ide, so are you. 
So call for a Special Student Application or look for one at your college btx>kstore or on campus bulletin boards. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it:· 
Calltodayfor an application: 800..528--8000. 


I 
~ 
I I 
I 
~ 
-----------------------------------------------'-­
Ih~~I~==================================== 
~~4tll~~==================~~==~=T=u=es=d=ay='=A=p=ri=l=l2=,=1=98=3===p=a=ge===ll
Bloom County 






Fate 
WHAT'S ON TV I 
I DuN 'T I\NOW 
r: ~or ro 
STUil't 
\ ~ 
ACROSS 1 Celestial body
The Daily Crossword 
5 Heartier 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
1 0 Scratch out 14 Trick ~~--.-,--r-:--.. 15 Breathing 
..,....+-.....,-+--l16 Relative of etc. ~+--+-+--1 17 Short news piece 1--+---lf--+---1 18 Witch city 19 Feral ~-+--+-+--+-1---1 20 Strollers 
22 Conclude satisfac· torlly 
24 Scottish explorer-+--+---l 25 Freshwater fish 
33 Shell ridges 34 Building 
wing 37 Tear apart 38 Codeor 
colony 39 Petition 40 Father 41 Strait in 
N. Wales 42 Endeavored 43 ModeiT 
adjunct 45 Compulsion 48 Aries 49 Resilient 
Berke Breathed 

56 Oil flasks 29 Former 
of Greece astronaut 58 Labor 30 Commandment 59 Rested mountain 60 Approaches 31 Entourage 61 Ms. Bombeck 34 Essayist's 62 Jog pen name 63 Covered 35 Suggestive 
with turf glance 64 Musical 36 Alan or sign Cheryl 38 Annuities 
DOWN 39 Backer 1 Guzzle 41 Necessity 2 Yugoslav 42 Ski resort 
leader transports· 3 Fishsauce tion 4 Noted 43 Take 5 Precipitate offense 6 Word of 44 Green 
sorrow 45 Distributed 7 Diamond 46 Of a cer· 
gal tain bone 8 Eternally 47 Proportion 9 Corrective 50 Gal of 
10 Edit the Nile 11 Slanting 51 Cowboy's 12 Emollient onus 13 Church 52 Traditional 
official learning 21 Scold 53 Becomes 23 American indistinct 
indians 54 Venetian 26 Guardian's blind part charge 57 Cushion 
Campus 
•12:
10 p.m. -Art Noontalk, "Mestrovic In Europe," Dr. Dean A. Porter, Annenberg Auditorium 

•12:15 
p.m. Economics Workshop, "Economic Effects of Immigration: Issues and Evidence," Francisco Rivera·Batiz, 343 Nieuwland Science Hall 

• 
4:15 p.m. -Lectures, Shakespeare Symposium, Memorial Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Plumage Coloration and Dominance Behavior in Three Species of Sparrows," Dorris Watt, 278 Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. Pre-Advance Registration Meeting of, the College ofArts and Letters, Wash­ington Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Mind and Brain in the Middle Ages," Prof. Thomas Parisi, SMC, Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m.-Gennan Film Series, "Nosferatu," Car­roll Hall, Sponsored by German Club, 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "American Graffiti," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NO Boxing Club, S1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ladies ofND, Evening at the Snite Museum, 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "Chesterton: Interpreter of Science," Rev. Stanley L Jaki, Rare Book Room Memorial Library 

•s 
p.m. ~ Shakespeare Symposium Lecture and Discussion, "In Other Terms: Jarman's The Tempest," Prof. Paul Rathburn, Memorial Library Auditorium 


T.V. Tonight . 
8:00p.m.  16  
22  
28  
34  
8:30p.m.  22  
9:00p.m.  16  
22  
28  
34  
9:30p.m.  28  

10:00 p.m. 16 28 
11 p.m. 16 22 28 34 
The ATeam Ace Crawford Private Eye Mandrell YFC Special Nova Gun Shv Remington Steele CBS Tuesday Night Movie Three's Compnay American Playhouse 9 to 5 St. Elsewhere Hart to Hart NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Indiana Lawmakers 
', The Far Side 

-
r--------------------------------,
) N.D. Student Union is proud to present I . ALEX HALEY II Author of Roots & The Autobiogra~hy I 
of Malcolm X I 
I 
All organizations interested in sponsoring a movie speaking on: I I
in either semester nextyear should pick up an "The Future of the Family" 
I application at the Office of Student Activities. Wednesday, April13, 1983 8:00p.m. J • 
Applications must be returned by Friday, April 15 Library Auditorium -reception following I 
~--------------------------------~ 

Tuesday, April12, 1983-page 12 
S~orts 
Looking for old starting spot 
Marshall battles back from injury 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI Marshall came to Notre Dame as He lived up to such billings in Sports Writer one of the most ballyhooed players 1980 as he earned freshman all­in recent years. He was a consensus America honors from Football News 
"Tim Marshall will start . .. You prep All-American his senior year at by making an immediate impact for just can't keep a player that good Weber High School in Chicago and the Irish front line in their 9-2-1 out ofa lineup." was regarded by many to be the top Sugar Bowl season. 
lineman prospect in the nation. In 
Such were the words of former addition he was honored as the na­Notre Dame football coach Dan tional high school "Catholic Player Spring Football Devine after seeing freshman Tim of the Year" -an honor won by Marshall's first week of practice in Tony Hunter and Boh Crable the 
---'83 
the fall of 1980. two previous years. 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame fans Finally, he was fearsome enough found out last year that a player that with his aggressive and talented The next year he played more good indeed can be kept out of a style of play to earn the title of than any other Irish defensive lineup. "Darth Vader In Cleats." lineman as he raised his career sack 
total to 19. In a fall pre-season practice last year, however, Marshall injured his
Top Bookstore team 
foot. Having a club foot which can­not bend like a normal foot, the healing process was extremely slow.
takes first game easily 
Eventually, he had to sit out the ByJEFF BLUMB Double Decker's Billy Varner would whole year. 
-
Sports Writer be matched up against Pat Collins of "Personally, I think it worked out Captain Wags. Collins hesitated a bit well for me," says Marshall who now 
There were few surprises in yes­upon seeing this match-up and tried has two years of eligibility left. "It terday's Bookstore XII action. As ex­makes you appreciate all the more pected, highly seeded Double something that you may have just Decker Oreo Cookie handily won its been taking for granted. I've been game with Captain Wags and the Bookstore XH playing ball for 12 years now so Sleepwalkers, 21-7. things started to get repetitious for 
But not before the underdog Cap­me. tain Wags squad had put up a valiant "By sitting out last year, it has effort. made me want to play again more 
Donning blankets as warmup to switch with one ofhis teammates. than ever. I've never been much ofa capes, Captain Wags and his team Varner was persistent, though, practice player, but now I don't passed out Oreo cookies to the large jokingly following Collins across the mind doing the things at all in crowd ofabout 250 in attendance at court as he moved to switch assign­practice that I used to. Not that I had Stepan court I upon their arrival. ments with his fellow guard. a bad attitude before, but it has 
As the teams took their places to 
see BOOKSTORE, page 8 see MARSHALL, page 7
start the game, it was found that 
.. 


A. L. EAST 
In Baltimore, is there life aft~r, Weaver? 
SportsEditorEmeritus 
Last season, the Milwaukee Brewers had their best season ever. They put together performances by several players that players are unlikely ever to repeat. Yet the Brewers didn't clinch the division title until the last day ofthe season. 
It won't happen that way again. This is the strongest division in baseball. Again. Any one of five 
teams could win it all. Two could finish anywhere from first to last. 
Baltimore-The Orioles lost Earl Weaver, and he won about 10 games himselfevery year. But, in a mediocre season (for them), they almost won last season. Pitching is the key. Jim Palmer, Dennis Mar­tinez, Scott McGregor, Mike Flanagan, and Storm Davis will all be over .500. Unless injuries cause problems with that rotation, this is the team everyone will have to chase. 
NewYork-Billy Martin wins. Everywhere. The Yankees have an awesome hitting line-up with Dave Winfield, Don Baylor, and Steve Kemp batting 3,4,5. 'Goose' Gossage will be a key, and must stay injury-free. 
Boston -The Red Sox may have the most powerful hitting line­up in baseball. Wade Boggs will win the MVP soon, and he's followed by Dwight Evans, Jim Rice, Tony Armas, Yaz, and Dave Stapleton. Boston has the worst starting pitching in the division, but led for two months last year despite it. They could finish first, last, or anywhere in between. 
Detroit -Sparky Anderson is almost there. They are as strong up the middle as anyone, with Lance Parrish catching, Alan Trammell and Lou Whitaker in the infield, and Kirk Gibson or Chet Lemon playing center. Jack Morris and Dan Petry could each win 20 games, but the Tigers lost 27 games after the 6th inning last season. The bullpen will be the key again. They could also finish first or last. 
Toronto -Surprise. Here is quality pitching, and talented young players. Stieb could win the Cy Young. Alfredo Griffin and Damaso t Garcia are both potential All-Stars, and rookie Tony Fernandez may be better than both. Beat them while you can, they're coming fast. 
Milwaukee -You can't Jose two Cy Young winners and still contend. Pete Vuckovich may be done forever, and Rollie Fingers is just as questionable. These guys can kill the ball, but age is catching up with them. Fifteen players are over 30. 
Cleveland-By far the best last-place team in any sport. A solid infield, with the addition ofManny Trillo andJulio Franco to go with Mike Hargrove and Toby Harrah. But the starting pitching, with Bert Blyleven, Len Barker, Rick Sutcliffe, and Larry Sorenson is only average. The Indians are living proof that mere mediocrity, while acceptable elsewhere, can't make it in the A.L. East . 
.. 
--~ .... ~ •..,-. -·. .... 

