-----------------~-------------------~-~~-~ 
----------~----.~-~--~­
• • • Tennis -page 9 

VOL. XVII, NO. 124 tht: imkpt:ndt:nt student nnvspapt:r serving notre Jamt: and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL6, 1983 
Satellite trouble mars space shuttle mission 
CAPE CANAVERAL, fla. (AP) ­The world's biggest and costliest communications satellite, launched with fanfare from the space shuttle Challenger, traveled a misshapen or­bit yesterday as experts on the ground tried to improvise ways to salvage it. They voiced hope for success. 
The new shuttle, meanwhile, was coasting like a seasoned traveler around the earth. Its astronauts, quietly busy with metals processing and other scientific experiments, wondered ifthey had anything to do with the satellite's problems. 
"We don't really have a story for you," said Mission Control. "We'll probably be talking a lot about that post-flight." 
Plans were to use the satellite's nozzles and the fuel it carries for small course corrections, to propel the satellite into its proper 22,300­mile-high orbit. 
The makers ofthe satellite and the 
rocket were meeting with NASA en­
gineers to decide when and how to 
do that. The decision could take 
days. 
Much was riding on overcoming 
the problems with the 2.5-ton, n 00 
million Tracking and Data Relay 
Satellite, which is needed urgently 
both for · defense purposes and 
future missions of the shuttle. With­
out TDRS, a spacelab flight in Sep­
tember is practically an 
impossibility. 
Challenger commander Paul ). Weitz and his crewmen, pilot Karol ). Bobko and mission specialists Story Musgrave and Donald H. Peter· son, who had ejected the satellite from their cargo bay late Monday, were asleep when the trouble began. They t were in the second day ofthe ship's five-day inaugural flight. 
"The Challenger is operating near 
flawlessly," said flight director 
Randy Stone at a morning briefing. 
"The crew is feeling fine." 
There was no indication that the 
astronauts suffered from the space 
sickness that plagued others on the 
five flights of the first shuttle, Columbia. 
Musgrave was eager to get on with the day's work. "We're going to come out of the chute running hard," he said. 
Weitz and Bobko fired Challen· ger's engines twice to begin a series of four course-changing maneuvers to meet a phantom target' in space. The exercise was a rehearsal for later flights when astronauts will chase down satellites to service or repair them. 
The astronauts' next big day is tomorrow when Musgrave and Peterson climb into space suits and walk out into the airless void of the open cargo bay. The two mission specialists will spend today check· ing out the suits which malfunc­tioned before a scheduled space walk on the last shuttle flight. 
What had been a perfect satellite deployment just before midnight turned sour five and a half hours later when a firing of an attached booster rocket ended 20 or 30 seconds early. The satellite, instea of hovering over one spot along the equator, 22,300 miles high, tubed into a 14,000 to 22,000 mile egg· shaped path. 
At that orbit, it could perform its intended functions some ofthe time, but not all ofthem always. 
Space agency officials planned some time during the next few days to use the satellite's small steering jets to guide the payload close to its intended orbit. 
Robert Aller, NASA's program manager for the satellite, said it carried 1,300 pounds ofhydrazine, a propellant produced by the chemi­cal reaction ofchlorine, caustic soda and ammonia. 
"We feel that with several 
hundred pounds of the hydrazine 
system we can significantly correct 
the orbit to be near 
geosynchronous," he said. 
When a spacecraft is 22,300 miles 
high over the equator, its orbital 
speed matches the spin of Earth, 
making it appear _to be stationary 
over that spot. The term for that is 
geosynchronization. 

Astociatcd Press 
complications, NASA offictals feel secure that the mission will be successful. See story at left. 
Last night's meeting 


HPC defeats coed dorm proposal 
By MIKE KRISKO 
News Staff 
A proposal to make Stanford and Keenan Halls into a co-residential complex failed to gain the endorse­ment of the HPC at last night's meetng. 
Student Senate Resoluton 118, which proposes that the men of Stanford be moved to Farley Hall received a majority of votes ( 14 for, 10 against), but failed to reach the two-thirds majority needed for the councl's endorsement. 
HPC Chairmen Mike McAuliffe, presidingover the laSt meeting ofhis term, by asking the views ofthe halls involved in the issue. 
Farley Hall President Kelly Fitzgerald firmly opposed the proposal stating that the girls in the dorm are "used to the place and the people who run it." She added, "We enjoy the freedom and privacy of living in a girl's dorm." 
Stanford Hall President Joseph Lynch reported that a survey within the dorm has shown that residents are in favor ofthe move by a 2·1 mar­gin. 
The council next questioned whether the proposal is really in favor of co-ed dorms. Flanner Co­President Jack Seiler felt that it would not actually be creating a co­ed dorm because Keenan and Stan· ford are seperate dorms. "It's a lot of hustle for nothing,"he said. 
Badin Hall President Dorthy David called it "a way of pacifica­

tion"  for  those  who  want  co-ed  
dorms.  
Holy  Cross  President  Chris  

Tayback warned about radical proposals such as dorms beingco-ed by floor, section, or by rooms. "If we're going to propose something, it should be conservative enough to at least have a minute chance of pas­sing," he said. 
The author ofthe resolution, Greg Miller, supported the proposal by remindng that particpaton wouuld be voluntary and that privacy would not be violated. "The point of the thing is that only common space, . 
see CO-ED,page 5 


New SU director calls for increases in staff 
Father Fitz named Senior Fellow 
By KEVIN BINGER 
News Staff 
Father John Fitzgerald was elected this year's Senior Fellow in last Wednesday's balloting, receiv­ing just over 40 percent of the vote, according to Senior Class Secretary Sean Maloney. 
Maloney feels this is especially ap· 
propriate because "Fitz" is leaving 
after this year to pursue a ministry 
among the poor. 
"It's nice; a lot of us have known 
him since we were freshmen," said 
:\olaloney. "He's been with us for all 
four years and now he's leaving with 
us." 
"I'm very flattered," said Fitzgerald, one of nine nominees. "I'm especially honored to be in­cluded with the other people who have been nominated, people who have really touched others here at Notre Dame." 
Fitzgerald is the associate director 

Fatherjohn Fitzgerald, C.S.C. 
ofCampus Ministry, which works to maintain a healthy Christian com· munity here. He coordinates the ministry in the dorms, retreats, mar­riage preparation and counseling. 
"I try to bring people to God," said 
Fit.zgerald. "If you want to promote the Gospel, you find your own flesh and blood ways to do that. You use your own personal gifts." 
Senior Class President Mark Mai feels that Fitzgerald's most valuable gift is his openness. "He's an excep­tional individual just to talk to. He's someone who has affected our lives here, and I guess a lot of the seniors feel that way." 
"He's a very personable guy," said 
Maloney. "He really brings religion 
to life." 
"This is really awkward to 'talk 
about yourself in a flattering way," 
said Fitzgerald. "I guess I'm vain 
enough to be thrilled about this. I'm 
especially honored because I'm 
moving on with the seniors this year 
to bigger, if not better, things." 
"I think the best advice I ever heard was what St. Paul said to the Romans: 'Be happy with those who are rejoicing and mourn with those who are grieving.' In my own way this is what I've tried to do here." 
By CECILIA LUCERO 
StaffReporter 
Increasing the staffs of individual Student Union commissions for more effective undertaking of proposed activities is among the major objectives of newly-elected Student Union Director Dave Drouillard. 
Drouillard inducted his new com­missioners last Thursday evening at the Student Union office. He familiarized them with office procedures and outlined several projects for the upcoming year. 
Drouillard said that the staffs ofin­dividual commissions would be in­creased to relieve commissioners of doing all the planning and legwork by themselves. 
"I think it would be more efficient if we could have more people put­ting insight and ideas in through a staff," Drouillard said. "A good place to look for that might be former hall presidents who don't want to run this year, or people in the dorms on the councils. Social life on campus is generated within the dorms, so I think ifwe draw some ofthose good people out and have them on our committees it would be beneficial for us." 
One possible project for next year is re-establishing Chautauqua as an undergraduate club. Drouillard said the idea is a brainstorm ofPete Ciot­ta, who will take part in the manage­ment of Chautauqua. Chautauqua Director Ralph Caroline adds that al­though some changes in manage­ment procedures are necessary, little alteration in the format of presentations will be required. 
Services Commissioner Mark 
Rolfes mentioned the possibility of 
opening a campus T-shirt shop 
which could draw business from 
residence halls and clubs. 
In addition, Drouillard said that a more efficient book exchange program also would be organized. 
The other Student Union commis­sioners for 1983-84 are Bob Bondi, comptroller; Ann Pillepich, publicity; Ed Konrady, concerts; Mary Jane Costello, movies; Mary Easterday, public relations; Mary Stevens, cultural arts; Laurene J Powers, social commissioner; and Mary Margaret Schmid, academic commissioner. 
• 

~----~--~---~ --~-----­
I. 

News Brie/§ 
By The Obserz•er and The Associated Press 
A seminar on hungerwill be conducted today at 7 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Todd Dietterle, Midwest coordinator of Bread for the World, the largest hunger lobbying group in the United States, will speak. Dietterle will give an overview of the hunger problem and explain the work ofthe orgainzation as a prelude to the Indiana Bread for the World Seminar, to be held at Moreau Seminary on April 30. -The Observer 
The ticket of Susie Miller and Katie Schirger narrowly defeated Shiela Whalen ?.nd Paula Ballantine for president and vice-president of McCandless Hall at Saint Mary's. In a runoff held before Easter break, Miller and Schirger captured 53 percent of the vote in a turnout described as "very bad, but expected" by Elec­tions Commissioner Monica Gugle. Voting discrepancies caused the entire primary election to be repeated on Monday, March 30, and Gugle said that all ofthe election confusion probably led to the poor turnout. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus Commissioner for the 1983-84 school year is Randy Hill, a junior from Bath, New York. In elections held before Easter, Hill received 24 votes to defeat Pat DePace, who received eight. -The Observer 
The University ofNotre Dame's Academic Council has chosen five faculty members and one student member to comprise the Review Committee for the Provost. A formal five­year review of the provost position is mandated by the University's Academic Manual. Members of the committee are Father Thomas E. Blantz, chairman and associate professor of history; Fernand Dutile, professor oflaw; Morton Fuchs, professor ofbiology and chairman of the Department of Microbiology; Michael R. Smith, College of Arts and Letters; Lee Tavis, Smith professor of business administration and professor of finance, and Kwang-Tzu Yang, professor of aerospace and mecnanical engineering. The work ofthe Committee is expected to be completed by the beginning of the 1983-84 academic year. -The Observer 
Key documents in an international· anti-nuclear weapons initiative undertaken by scientists and religious leaders have been translated into nine languages. Last September in Rome 55 scientists from the East and West signed a "Declaration on Prevention of Nuclear War" at a meeting held under the auspices of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences. This January in Vienna, 11 religious leaders from six faith traditions endorsed the stand of the scientists in issuing their own statement decrying nuclear weapons. Both statements have been translated into Arabic, French, German, Hindi, Italian, Japanese, Malay, Spanish and Thai at the University of Notre Dame, whose president, Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, is a leader in the initiative. -The Observer 
Senior marketing student Margaret McCarthy received the Donald). Thorman Memorial Scholarship to the Direct Marketing Educational Foundation's expense-paid Collegiate In­stitute Program which began Monday and will run through Saturday. McCarthy, from West Allis, Wis., is a marketing major in Notre Dame's College of Business Administration. She has been employed as assistant manager for a toy company, and held a telemarketing position with a lawn care service company. This memorial fund was established in 1978 to honor the memory of Donald ). Thorman, editor and publisher ofThe National Catholic Reporter. -The Ob­Serz'er 
A recent University graduate, Philip S. Hicks of St. Petersburg, Fla., has been awarded one of the first Mellon Fellow­ships in the Humanities for graduate study leading to a career in teaching. Created by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the awards went to 47 women and 49 men in 68 U.S. and Canadian colleges. Hicks, who continued graduate studies in history at the University of Cambridge after his Notre Dame graduation in 1980, will receive a stipend of lP,OOO plus tuition and standard fees while seeking a doc­torate in British history. -The Observer 
"Corporation Sole: Cardinal Mundelein and Chicago Catholicism," a book on the episcopacy of the third archbishop of Chicago, by Edward R. Kantowicz, has recently been published by the University of Notre Dame Press. According to Kantowicz, an associate professor of history at Carlton University, Canada, George Cardinal Mundelein's 23 years as archbishop of Chicago "servt: as a case study of the kind of episcopal leadership which shaped the twentieth ct:ntury Catholic experience." Kantowicz compares Mun­delein with thost: "American-born but Roman-trained" Church leaders like Cardinals O'Connell of Boston, Dougherty of Philadel­phia, Glennon ofSt. Louis and Spellman of New York, who "set the 
tone for the American Church in tht: first half of this century." Cor· poration Sole is the 1981 winner ofthe manuscript competition !(>r the Notre Dame Studies in Catholicism series, sponosort:d by the University's Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. -The Observer 
Cloudy and cool today. with a chance of showers. High will be in the mid 40s. Partly cloudy tomorrow with high in the mid 40s. -The Obserl'er 
Wednesday, April6, 1983-page 2 

Taking responsibility 
A controversial incidt:nt in a Florida bar ovt:r spring break spurrt:d additional controversy here last week. The participation of Morrissey senior Tim Schier! in a 
Margaret Fosmoe 

"Wt:t Willie" contest at a Fort Lauderdale bar -Tht: 
Managing Editor

Button -was called to tht: attention ofthe Notre Dame 
Administration. For days rumors abounded that the stu­

Inside Wednesday 

dent would be expelled. Last Tuesday, Dean ofStudents James Roemer ended speculation when he optt:d to ac­cept a four-point proposal submitted by six ofSchit:rl's friends rather than dismissing tht: senior. shame that the students had to abandon thost: teachings 
Schierl allegedly dressed in Irish regalia and body before learning that lesson. paint and stripped on stage at the bar. The stunt was one The charge of administrative estrangement in terms ofa series ofgames in a contest sponsored by The But-ofdisciplinary action is often heard. In this case, an ex-ton. The contest involved contingents from Notre trt:mely bad situation was handled admirably by both Dame and four other univt:rsities. the students and the Administration. Roemer acted cor-
The incident raised a furor on campus. More than rectly in asserting that punishment was in order~ More once the opinion was expressed that the Administra-importantly, he went to the students themselves to get tion "couldn't" take disciplinary action against Schierl the facts and make a judgmt:nt. He showed flexibility in because it's authority "shouldn't" extt:nd to behavior allowing Schierl's friend~ to make their case and present exhibited away from school. ,-----------------------. an acceptable proposal. 
The controversy raises Finally, the facts of the case serious questions about a were made known to the student's obligations to his ~-public when nearly 200 university. \,r~. people crowded into the 
In the effort to win the 1""-t.. __,. Morrissey chapel to hear contest for the Notre Dame \,_ fltef i both sides. contingent, SchierI blatantly ~-_ The effects of the bar inci­identified himself as a Notre JVr dent do not end with Dame student. In esst:nce, \..I~ 1"\ 7 Roemer's action. The ques­he set himsdf up as a rt:pre-1101fe IJQ~ • tions of morality and obliga­sentative of the University. tion remain. Schier! was And his actions, in turn, r probably not the only Notre reflected upon Notre Dame -Dame student to behave in 
as ~:t;~~~er how we try to --Jir ~ )r r <~~ ~~~~k~ ~:n::: ~~:~n~h:;~~~ 
avoid it, our actions afft:ct ' ..:.... who got caught. 
how others view us and the -~ The incident did serve a groups -whether family, '\.-{( , , ~'-1-useful purpose in testing the 
team, cl•ib, church or uni-strength of Notre Dame's versity -with which we are foundation of Christian associated. A member has an inherent obligation in any ideals. It also proved that communication and com­organization to accept responsibility for his actions in promise do work. regard to that group. We should see more such efforts between the stu­
The situation perhaps would have been different if dent body and the Administration. After Roemer made Schierl's behavior retlected only upon himself. But The his decision, the students seemed to take a certain satis­Button "advertised that the schools would be compet· faction in being included in that decision. In the end, ing" in the contest, according to one ofSchierl's friends. the incident pullt:d tht: Notre Dame community togeth­
The lt:tter Schit:rl's friends sent to Roemer men­er afier threatening to tear it apart. tioned the "anything goes" atmospht:re and the 
"intense rivalry" in the bar that night. Apparently, group pressu~re and foolish pride caused the student to aban­


Observer note____--. 

don his better judgment in regard to gaining honors for his school. Schier! displayt:d maturity in admitting his error and 
The views expressed in the Inside column are 

accepting responsibility for his actions. The support of the views of the author, and do not necessarilyhis friends through the ordeal was certainly admirable. 
reflect the views of the editorial board or staff 

Ironically, the behavior the students have exhibited since returning seems to indicate that Notre Dame's teachings really do work when put into practict:. It's a 


The~ Observer 
Tht: Day After Dyngus 
Design Editor.~~· .... ~Troy lllig·Kieta( ski') Design Assistant ..... ....... Carole Clark~ki Layout Staff............. ~aurt.·cn Convc..-r"iki 7)•pesetters... .... H.cggie~ki, Tom~ki, and .\1ary~ki '\feu•s Editor..... .. Dzianc: Dzirkt.·r~ki Cop)" Editor... . ...... Tim '\lc.:dy~ki Features l.arout .......... Sarah ltamihon!'>ki l:'ditoria/s /.ayout .............. Tari Brown!'>ki Sports Copy Editor . .... H.ich <>'Connor!'>ki \ports Extral.t~l'Ollt... \likt.• ~ullivan!'>kl 
.\'f) nal' li<lilor... . .. -~-Jan~ Pantil.,ki 
S.HC !Jay Editor.. . . ..... "1'1111 Pctter"ki 1)•jJist. \lat~ Tordua!'>l..i Ad /Jes(c:n ..... Paul ~lota!'>ki 
Pbotop,rapber .. . .... .'-lzcort BJ.O\\Tf!'>ki (,'uf!slAfJfJellrllllCf.!S.. .. D~:a\T the wondt.·r l'ditor. hal·k in ~outh lknd hi lit'!'>. wailing for light .-.c.·tung #.!., lot!'> ol d1ct ""'·l p. mayhe ont.• hot cookie. So\"ic:t Fon:ign Polic\' ( hdp! ). chickl'n wing,., ithdr;l\ . ., al. Riccardi livl's ( hc:re!) 
.·1h, spring .u•ben a young 11Uf11'.~ tboup,bts tut'n to Bookstore! 
The Observer 1USPS 598 920t " pcbl1shed Monday throuqh Fr~dd y nnd on home football Saturdd ys exec'"' 
dur1ng exarn and Vd(.d.IHJn pf•rrdd5 The 
Observer 15 published by thr: studenb of Notre Da•ne and Sa•nt Mdry s c,, lege Subswpt•ons ·nay De pure haspcJ for $25 per year 1 S t5 P''' se•nestPrl ny wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame lnd•ana 46556 
The Observer ,, a ·ne•nbPr ,•f The 
Associated Press All rcpr~ ll1ut IILHI r~ghts are reserved Second c tass pustage Pdld ar Nulre Dame tna1ana 46556 



The Observer Wednesday, April 6, 1983 -page 3 
On Good Friday 




Students march for peace 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON 
AssistantNews Editor 
About 120 people joined in a 
procession around the Notre Dame 
campus as part of the "Way of the 
Non-Violent Cross" celebration last 
Friday afternoon. 
"We wanted to dramatize the fact 
that through violent ways Christ still 
dies," said Joe Ross, a local Holy 
Cross seminarian who conceived 
the idea. ''We intended to celebrate 
a meaningful Good Friday." 
Agroup ofeight seminarians fn,Jm 
Moreau planned the event to 
"emphasize the call for everybody to 
seek non-violent ways -to show 
their commitment to peace," said 
seminarian Bill Miscamble, one of 

• the organizers ofthe procession. 
Miscamhle noted his surprise with the healthy turnout. "The event was not organized with expecta­tions of a large crowd. We just wanted to present an opportunity for people to pray," he said. 
Meeting at the Memorial (East) Door of Sacred Heart Church, the 

.Legal and moral aspects 
Panel discusses draft resistance 
By PETER CIOTTA 
News Staff 
"The extent to which colleges and universities cooperate with Selective Service is the extent to which they are an arm of the Pen­tagon," said Mike BaJtter, coun.selor 
for Campus Ministry, last Wednes­day at a panel discussion exploring the legal, moral and practical problems of draft registration and draft resistance. 
Baxter, along with Professor Ed­ward M. Gaffney, director of the Notre Dame Law School's Center for Constitutional Studies, and Profes­sor Don Blosser, director of peace studies at Goshen College, con­ducted an open forum in the Notre Dame Law School to address the issues. 
Examining the legal implications of draft resistance, Gaffney began the discussion with an historical overview of American attitudes toward passive actions. Calling legislation prohibiting draft resis­tance "a confusing and bewildering area of the law," Gaffney stated, "There has been a long-standing American tradition to respect the desires of those who, due to moral or religious convictions, chose not to serve the common weal in the armed forces. Draft resistance and resistors of military service are as American as violence, apple pie and motherhood. 
''I'm not trying to say that there exists in the Constitution a textual right for refusal to serve in the military, yet what is obnoxious about the current law is that it over­looks the American tradition ofcon­scientious objection," he said. 
Explaining the motivation for the re-enactmem of draft registration, Gaffney pointed out its inherent shortcomings. stating, "Recent draft registration legislation was a key ploy to keep the Russians at hay about American military readiness, yet a presidential commission found that the time saved in mobilization due to draft registration would be two weeks, not six weeks as the Car­ter administration said." 
"Ronald Reagan campaigned on the theme that we needed to get the federal government off our backs, Yl't it seems to me that the Reagan administration, like the Carter ad­ministration, has put itself imo a bureaucratic nightmare," Gaffney continued. "The Selective Service System is allowed to raid IRS and So­cial Security files to learn about draft evaders and the Labor Department has assured that no benefits will go group walked to six other "stations" on campus: the Radiation Research Laboratory, the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering, the Hurley Business Building, the flag pole adjacent to the Law School, the ROTC Building, and the Grotto. 
According to Ross, the stops were chosen since they represent poten­tial areas of violence in society ­from nuclear war (the Radiation Laboratory) to the immoral uses of science (the Engineering Building) to economic systems dependent upon military spending (the Busi­ness Building). 
"We have expn:ssed our desire 
for power by embracing violence as 
the means ofddending our country 
-our way of life." said Ross. "Parts 
of this University and all of human 
society are touched by this huge sys­
tem ofdestruction." 
Ross said that the procession represented a unique type of Easter celebration. "Good Friday is so rich that we wanted to present some­thing liturgically that is different from Sacred Heart. Technically, 

CORBY'S 

Wednesdny ight Specinl 

Register now Corby Open Golf Tournament Apri116. 
even the Way of the Cross as"com­monly celebrated is not part of the traditional Good Friday liturgy." 
Ross said that although he had heard of groups throughout the country holding a "way of the nuclear cross," the procession he.ld at Notre Dame was different. 
"It was just planned in an informal fashion," he said. "I can't tell whether it will happen next year. It would be nice if there would be no weapons and no need (for a non­violent way of the cross)." · 
Urging a renewal during the Eas­ter season, Ross said that Christians "must begin to disarm, and not juM to disarm the weapons, but to dis­arm (their) hearts as well. This 'personal disarmament' of which Pope Paul VI spoke, must begin with prayer." 
Noting his uncertainty that a non­violent procession will become an annual event, Ross expressed his desire that "the fruits that come from prayer -I would hope those things happen." 

The Oh!'~crver/Scotl Bower 
Hotv Cross seminarian joe Ross leads tbe "Way of tbe Non­Violent Cross" procession across campus last Fridav. Tbe group of 120 students u·as protesting violence in society. See story at left. 

t iKnigltts oftlttQ!astlt 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry & Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Haircut only $6 with coupon 
54533 Terrace Lane, South Bend (Across from. 
(Hair must be washed day of cut)
Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 
272·0312 277·1691 
SAT. 8:30·5:30 
($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 






Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If you think ltali;m ti)(Jd is !liSt spaglll'tti ;md pit.za. Wl'\l' got a moutll-opl'ning l'Xpl'ril'nn· waiting ti lf you l'\l'ry \\ednl'Slb\ night !Tom ~ll!l 1!1:1111 p.m. at'llw lwking <;h-;s kl'staur;uit in till' South lx·nd \tarriott. 
Introducing \lama \tarriott s --a 1Juu11 p,ustu ;UTa\ of ;mtqu-;ta. mim·sironl'. t(·ttul'im·. can tl!on·. h-;agnl'. IXl'ta :md ti llll' Salk'l'S. dll'l'Sl'. hrl'alb ;Uld dt'SSl'l'!s 
Its .til Sl'lll'd up in a btin· lt;tli;Ul ;Hill< lSpill'fl' ­dll'l'kl'rl'd tahll'd< Jtlls. a strolling musici;m --· till' \mrks. 
.\II '< n1 r;m l'at ti lf Sill)~ Childrl'nundl'r I~--S\l)~ 
Reservations Appreciated 
.4 rirederci.' 

South Bc.·nd/~orriott ttotrl. 12:~ ;.;. St. Joseph St.. South Bend (219) 2.14-2000 
tp those who haven't registered." 
Gaffuey also stated that "regulations for the availiability of student aid have been complicated by draft registration regulations. The higher education community was asleep at the switch when this legislation went through. A student can't get a penny of aid unless he registers for the draft." 

Blosser discussed the moral and ethical problems Mennonite stu­dents face when asked to register for 
see DRAFT,page 5 

rrh:Best Bee-;;·;AI:;r:-::br;e~ 
Create your own fresh. frothy. natural beer with our complete ~ \ brewing kits. · ~ At Crystal .~ountain we help you ~ut it all together: The finest 
} malts. hops, and yeasts available. srmple. qualrty equrpment. and 
1 

~ step-by-step procedures -everything you need to make 5 gallons 'l J ~f _g~t;~~ ,-sl!~t.~f!l~ 9r~~~<J. ~~~r •...~............................. ~ 
\ Choose from Crystal Lager 0 Ingredients and equipment .-\light. smooth tdst~ S.)B H-'i are also available separate!} ,, Amber Ale D -send for free brochure. D :\ tld\·ort'ul. golden brew S.)B H;i I.: uropean Dark Ale D Check :.: Money Order 
~ L _ MasterCard _.:: VISA ~ :\ mellov.. ()ld \\'orld fld\·or S-i I 00 
1, Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery
·. 

Irish Stout 0 Add S5.80 for shipping and handlmg ~Jch ddrk dnd full bod1~J. S-t-lOO -Texas residents add 5% soles tax. .~ 
~t~~:t address 
_:•I''
!
~: City/State/Z1p 

\ 
Cord H __________Exp. Dote Signature --------------------::::.... 'r 

The Observer 
Wednesday, April6, 1983-page 4 

ND trustee and wife 
I·-----------------------~I 
Laetare Medal awarded 
: I Spanish Club ; I By P.OLLY HUDAK "the influence of the Holy Cross or· Notre Dame's advisory council for News Staff der has not diminished on campus, the School of Law. Five years later,
1 1Tertulia
I I but continues to infuse a strong he was chosen a member of the As· 
I I "It's an extraordinary award for spirit on both religious and intellec­sociate Board ofTrustees. two people who are ordinary," says tual levels of the Notre Dame com­In 1967, when Notre Dame
I I 
Edmund A. Stephan about the recent munity." became the first Catholic university awarding of the 1983 Laetare Medal . Stephan's contribution to the to complete transfer of governance
: Friday. April 8 4 -5pm ; 
to him and his wife Evelyn. · establishment of the university's lay to a reconstituted lay board of trus­Father Theodore Hesburgh an­governance is only a part of the tees with full legal authority, Step­
: in LaFortune·s South Alcove ; nounced the recipients ofthe medal, criteria which qualifies him and wife han was named its chairman. 
I I considered to be the most sig· Evelyn for the Laetare Medal. During Stephan's tenure as head I I nificant annual award conferred According to the citation which was of the university's chief policy­upon American Catholics, on Mar. presented to the Medal's 1896 making body, a number of exciting: "venga para hablar con nosotros : 13. Hesburgh praised the efforts of recipient, Gen. William Rosecrans, developments took place. Co­Stephan, chairman emeritus of "the Laetare Medal has been worn education came to Notre Dame after
1 y par practicar el arte de conversation .. 1 
Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, in only by men and women whose the failure of the merger with the university's transfer to lay gover­genius has ennobled the arts and neighboring Saint Mary's College;

L-••••••••••••••••••••••J 
................-coupon............... 
Students and Staff 
of St. ffiaty's and Notte Dame 
additional oH



JlOO 

On you1 best deal on any newT oyota. 
Just ptesent coupon and I.D. to 
ffiichael Fahey at 


ovetlOO staff, alum, &students sold Call237-4052 one pe1custome1 
.................coupon................ 
from a pay phone and bill the call to could bill the call to another third their home number may be forced party whom the operator could then to pay the charges themselves attempt to contact. Edmund and Eve~vn Stephan thanks to a new Indiana Bell policy. The policy has changed as a result 

Since April 1, third-person billing offrequent fraud associated with the ministration ~the university.
N.D. Student Union presents 
from a coin-operated phone is pos­system. In 1982, Indiana Bell lost Evelyn Stephan has been at her sible only if an operator can contact 5584,000 because of fraudulent husband's side throughout the
a week of 

the third party and verity accep· third-party calls. This figure includes progress and says that sharing in her tance ofthe charges, said Tony Page, third-party calls made from home husband's work and the growth of
WAR MOVIES 
an employee ofIndiana Bell's public and business phones; Page believes, Notre Dame has been "a wonderful relations department. however, that the changed policy, experience."
April 5-9 

If the charges are refused or the which applies only to pay phones, Stephan adds that Evelyn has not operator receives no answer, the will diminish this figure considerab· only offered her enthusiasm con­

thrifty student must find an alternate ly.
Tuesday...Bridge Over the 
River Quai Wednesday...Patton Thursday...Tora Tora Tora Friday...Guns of Navarone Saturday...Apocalypse Now 
All nights at 7:00 & 10:15 Engineering Aud. $1 
SENIOR SPECIAL CHOOSE fROM X PRF\ II\\~ :1 1'2 '5 
I-8 x 10 Color Portrait 

Special $29.50 
2~ -BiiJf,,ld Color Prinr-

YES, WE HAVE Caps &Gowns "IN YOUR SCHOOL COLORS ••• TASSELS TOO!" 
U';fcDdnald Studio 
326 Lincoln Way West South Bend, Indiana 46601 Phone: 232-2003 
nance in 1967. He referred to Step­sciences, illustrated the ideals of the the role ofthe Catholic University in han as "the architect of the legal Church and enriched the heritage of a pluralistic, secular society was structure we have lived gracefully humanity." redefined; and students and faculty with for the last 16 years." The Stephans' career of devotion were given greater voices in the ad-
Stephan, grateful for the success to those standards represented by ofNotre Dame's change to lay gover· the Laetare Medal began almost 30 nance, claims that he did not do his years ago, in 1955. That year Ed­job "single-handedly" and he feels mund Stephan became a member of 



Indiana Bell policy to halt pay phone fraud 
By CATHY PAX method to finance the call. In such StaffReporter cases, Page suggests that students bill the call to their own billing num­Penny-pinching students who at· ber or to their family's telephone tempt to call a friend long distance credit card number. The caller also 
Attention COTH Majors &Intended Majors!!! 
Preregistration for ALL Majors and intended majors will take place in the loft of O'Shag Hall on Monday April11, Tuesday April12, & Wednesday April13. Please make an appointment with your advisor for counseling BEFORE registering for classes. 

PITTSBURGH CLUB 
Mandatory meeting for all those interested in becoming next year's officers or helping out. Everyone welcome. Discussion on election rules. Wednesday, April6 (tonight) at 7pm LaFortune Little Theatre 
N.D. Student Union now has openingsfornextyears 

COMPTROLLERS 
See Margaret in the Student Union office 2nd floor Laf 
tinually throughout his projects, but 
has also "contributed valuable in­
sight to such issues as coeducation 
at Notre Dame." 
Hesburgh considers the contribu­

tion of Edmund and Evelyn Stephan 
to higher Catholic American educa­
tion a unique "team effort." 
"The two have served the Univer­

sity as a gracious and effective 
team," he says. "One cannot think of 
one without the other." 
The American counterpart of the "Golden Rose," a papal honor antedating the 11th century, the Laetare Medal was conceived in 1883 by Professor James Edwards. The medal consists of a solid gold disc suspended from a gold bar which bears the inscription "Laetare Medal:" In a border surrounding the disc are the words, "Magna est veritas et prevalevit (Truth is mighty and will prevail)." 
· Among others to receive the Medal in recent years have been President john F. Kennedy in 1961, Peter Grace in 1967, Dorothy Day in 1972, Helen Hayes in 1979 and Thomas P. ("Tip") O'Neill in 1980. 
ATTENTION TAXPAYERS! • A new law requiring partial with­holding of taxes on interest and dividend income will take effect July 1, 1983. If you have an interest-earning 
account or receive dividend pay­ments, this law will affect you! This is not a new tax. Like with· 
holding on salary checks, it 
merely changP.s the way taxes 
are collected. 
Exemptions are available for older Americans, lower income individuals and those with small savings accounts. To see if you · qualify, contact your bank, finan­cial institution or the Internal Revenue Service in your area. 
A public serv•ce message from the Internal Revenue Serv1ce 



--~·~-1 
The Observer 
... Co-ed 
continuedfrom page 1 
such as the study lounges, would be completely shared," he said. 
Lyons Hall President Suzy joyce commented on how common study space encourages favorable interac­tion. Co-ed dorms "would help those who normally .wouldn't be that assertive to go over to study lounges in other dorms." 
Even though this proposal failed to gain the council's endorsement, McAuliffe formed an ad hoc commit· tee to study and formulate more ac­
• • . Draft 

ceptable proposals for co-ed dorms. Those named to the committee are Alumni Hall President Frank Leyea, Fisher Hall President joe Higgins, Flanner Hall co-Presidents Seiler and Paul Sheridan, Grace Hall President Peter DiChiara, Pasquerlla West President Pat Stierwalt, Walsh Hall President Karen Kostecky, 
Fitzgerald, Tayback, and joyce. 
In other business, Student Body President Brian Callaghan asked the council's support for the following proposed summer projects: 
•Upholstering 
and elevating the chairs in the Engineering Auditorium. 

•Making 
improvements in LaFortune and Washington Hall. 


• Improving the D-6 parking lot. 
Finally, Eileen Hoctor, Saint Mary's representative to the HPC, announced that International Peace Day at Saint Mary's will be May 1. The day will be highlighted with an 
II:30 a.m. Mass. An organizational meeting will be held tonight at 7:00 
p.m. in the Madeleva study lounge. 
Associated Press 

Members ofthe Soviet Embassy in Paris wave from the steps of the embassy as 47 Soviet diplomats leavefor Moscow. The French government yesterday ordered Soviet diplomates and residents to leave France for alleged espionage. 
continuedfrom page 3 
at Goshen. Each week before the He continued, "Byron will the draft. Citing the Mennonite grand jury is to meet, the FBI comes graduate, marry and do one year of Church's 450-year tradition of non­and tells Byron that his case will be )VIennonite volunteer service. Here violence, Blosser commented on the going to trial and each week the case is a clear example of a responsible indictment of 18 Goshen students is pushed back. For 16 months person trying to deal with the moral 
for draft registration violations. Byron has had this over his shoul­dilemma posed by draft registra­
"We are faced with a moral dilem­der." tion." ma. Ninety-five percent of the Men­nonite Church supports both 
~---------------------------------------,
non-registration and registration with conscientious objector intent. Bruno's Original Pizza • 2 The issue began for us with the ques­tion: how do you live out your faith 
North on U.S. 31, across from Big C Lumber
and how do you at the same time be a responsible citizen?" he said. 277-4519 "Mennonite men are trying to make a statement against war and 
Sl.OOoff on lg. pina
nuclear policy. Military and nuclear war go hand in hand and we are opposed to it. The Mennonite Bruno's Dcrlivcrrs 
I
Monday ·Thursday only 
Church is historically a peace church. Some of our young men are Good until 4/1 5 trying to use the backing ofthe Men­nonite Church to challenge the law 
4· 4 • 11 Mon. ·Thurs. 
for non-Mennonites," he continued. 
"The American government 4 • 12 Fri. ·Sat. reserves the right to tell me where I can exercise my faith. The govern­ment is trying to tell me I cannot live out my faith in a way which will not 277-4519 allow me to harm others," said Blos­ser. 
MUST PRESE"T COUPO" 
Detailing a specific case where I 
O"LYGOODfiTBRU"O'S ~2
Byron Becker, a Mennonite student, I 
I

was indicted for refusing to register 
I 

for the draft, Blosser stated, "Byron 
is a senior computer science major ·---------------------------------------­
~ ~ 
N D Clubs & Organizations oT~ TIME TO RE-REGISTER FOR 83-84. NEW SYSTEM THIS YEAR! 
1. 
Registration-now thru April 22. 

2. 
Activity Report -Due by Apri I 22. 


3. Applications for activity funds for 83-84-Due by April 22. 
4. 
Footbal Concession Stand for Fall, 83-Due April 22. 

5. 
Movie Application for Fall, Spring 83-84-Due April15 


All forms available in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune. FUNDS FOR NEXT YEAR WILL BE AWARDED THIS SPRI~ 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month 
during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company 
Jiter graduation·~ Cnder a sprcial ~avy program we're doing just that. 
It"s called the ~uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. 
And under it. you'll not only get great pay during your junior and 
semor ~·ears. but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable 
graduate-lew! training that is not available from any other employer. 
· l i you arP a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciences. find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. 
For more information, call the !';aval Management Programs Office at: 
1·800·382-3782 

BAGGAGE TRUCK 
Applications are now available for May &August. Pick up in Student Activities Office, 1st floor LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Monday, April11. will be awarded on Tuesday, April12. 
NO FEE 






GQ5At UJf'LL 
REITAI'IIA/11 ' COCtlA/l lOUIIIE $ZECHUAII -CA/110/IEIE-AMERII:AII 

Brian ~ Mary G. Music Show 
Fri. ct Sat 9pm -lam 
•Dancin • Drinks• Dinoer 

Lunch Special 1.99 to $4.25 
Dinner Specials: Feef Liver $2.95 Pork Fried Noodles $3.00 Pork Egg Foo-yung $3.25 ~!r.~,. 
Mon.·Thur 11:30am.-10:0Qp.m !"ri. & Sat. 11:30 a.m ·11:00 p.m. Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.·9:00 p.m. 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH Happy Hour 5· 7 P M SOUTH BEND(Roseland) BA~QUET ROOMS & Next to Randall'~ lr..• 
GROUP RATES 

AVAI1.ABL£. 272-7376 
Ritter Midwest (Division of Sybron) 
_Formerly American Hospital Supply Corp. 
• 
Will be on campus April 14 · 15 to inter­view accounting majors for a staff accountant trainee position. 

• 
The training program is 6 months long. 

• 
The VP Controller, Elizabeth York, will be con~ucting the interviews. 

• 
The position will be located in the General Office Facility in Des Plaines, Ill (a western suburb of Chicago). 

•Literature 
is available in the Placement Office. 

•We 
encourage qualified minorities and women to apply. (EOE/AAE) 






Editorials 
Wednesday, April6, 1983-page 6 
WSND: changing for the better 
Editor's note: This is tbe first ofa two-part series on possible changes in the works at the campus radio station, WSND. 
Tim Neely 
My Turn 
WSND may be on the verge of a change ­one which will affect it in many ways. 
The executive staff at WSND-AM and FM, the campus radio stations, and the administra­tions of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, have been working toward a goal which may be realized by the next school year: the trans­formation ofWSND-AM into an FM station. It is an idea which many WSND people have espoused over the years; it is also one which has been tossed about by the general Notre Dame-Saint Mary's student population. 
In the past, the plan consisted of transform­ing the existing FM station -the "fme arts" WSND -into a stereo version of the "rock" WSND-AM. 
Such a plan was not, and is not, possible. 
WSND-FM, 88.9, is the only station in the area which plays classical music without imposing its religious beliefs upon the lis­tener, as a Berrien County, Mich., classical sta­tion does. As such, it is supported by a small but loyal Michiana audience which shows its support by contributing money to keep the station running during the summer. To eliminate this station, which a South Bend Tribune reviewer called the best in the area, would be not only a major mistake but also a bad public relations move. The University has realized this, so even though a station similar to WSND-AM would be popular among stu­dents on FM, they have resisted the tempta­tion to change WSND-FM. 
Instead, an open frequency-100.9-has been found on the FM dial in this area, and it is there that WSND-AM proposes to move. It is a move which, for the sake of the station, the students, and Notre Dame in general, should be completed. 
Right now WSND-AM is in sad shape -not internally, as in its organization and person­nel, but externally. Anyone who has ever lis-



Housing lottery may be just what we need 
Since 1972, the first year women were ad­mitted, there has been no on-campus housing lottery. Students have become accustomed to the rumors ofa lottery and grown complacent in the knowledge that a lottery will probably never occur. 
If Notre Dame is to maintain its residential character, it must provide adequate facilities for its students. It is not enough to provide only a place to sleep. But it would be equally wrong to assume that building more dor­mitories would 6ive Notre Dame a better residential character. 
The real problem of Notre Dame lies in a philosophy of growth which dictates un­bridled expansion at the expense of the human contact of a small university. Notre Dame's strength stems not from magnificent structures but from interpersonal contact which a small residential university fosters with students who are more than Social Security numbers. 
Notre Dame has passed its growth limit on its way to becoming what administrators alone see as an Ivy League school of the Mid­west. The University, which graduated 1061 students in 1950, graduated 1748 men and women last year. When will the growth end? When will Notre Dame reach its saturation point? 
The plan to build Notre Dame by accepting more and more freshmen each year is failing. The financial reasons given for increased en­rollment are.nothing more than well-worded excuses to fill lecture halls and already overflowing University coffers, coffers which contain a ll208 million endowment. 
The University makes detailed plans for its t1nancial future and neglects the educational needs of the present because "the University must maintain a certain financial base." In ef­fect, the University has inverted the parable of the talents -"You could have at least in­vested that money." 
The results are lecture halls and laboratories tilled with passive minds who never have the opportunity to q~Jestion or to discuss what a supposed authority proclaims, but who simply "pay their G's and get their C's." 
It is all of us who bear the result. 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
.,, 
the policies of the administration of eit"ter institution. The news is reported as ac­
'· 
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa , 1 majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict . ' the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
f ·;: .and the free expressionofvaryingopinionson.campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
tened, or tried to listen, to AM-64 for any length of time knows what I mean. Although the station broadcasts from O'Shaughnessy Hall, the reception is generally terrible. This is more from outdated and worn broadcasting equipment than anything else. 
Its setup has inherent flaws. As WSND-AM broadcasts by carrier current, the sound is sent through very low impulses to each campus building's electrical system. Each location, therefore, must have its own transmitter. Over the years dorms have been unable to receive WSND because of the dis­repair of many of these terminal points. At least two -the Pasquerillas -never have been hooked up to the carrier current, thus they cannot receive WSND-AM there. 
Also, as these in-house transmitters are necessary to pick up the sound, students who live off-campus cannot receive their student radio station at their residences. Neither can other Interested members of the Notre Dame community -faculty and staff -who live in the South Bend area. This shuts out over one­fourth ofthe students who attend Notre Dame and those staff members who are not priests or hall rectors. 
Finally, there is the strong aversion most students here have to listening to AM radio. With the number and volume offancy stereos these days, most would rather listen to FM in stereo, regardless oftheir personal opinion of the station, than tune in monaural AM with poor fidelity. This is a national trend; while in some markets AM radio is successful, it is only on those stations which do not employ a music format. All-news and talk radio dominate the AM band. When rock music is concerned, AM, for all intents and purposes, is dead. 
Right now, except for certain special programs, WSND-AM has a nearly negligible listening audience. It certainly has no problem in recruiting interested student volunteers, as every year tQere are many more applicants than positions. It often seems, however, that more students work at WSND than listen to it. A stereo FM rock station could be the first step in solving this problem. 
Tomorrow: Once WSND goes FM, what next? 
P. 0. BoxQ 


Life at six weeks 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to share with you a part of a letter I recently received from a friend. She is a television reporter for a station in Penn­sylvania. 
john, a week or so ago I did a story on "At-Home"pregnancy tests. Tbe doctor and I spoke abouta numberofthings including tbe fact that be performs abortions. This may interest you: a new ultrasonic proce­dure allows physicians to see what is in the womb six weeks after conception. This doc­
torsaid at that timeyou can see a tiny baby complete with skeleton and organs. At that point I asked him ifthat was the case, what was be aborting? He said "unquestionably babies." He went on to say be bas a lot of trouble with it. He says be bates doing it and bas stopped all religious affiliation (raised Catholic) because ofit. None ofthe info was airable -it was all offthe record. 
The letter offers me pretty convincing tes­timony of what I already believe: abortion takes human life. I encourage any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student to research the issue before taking a position on it. Know how it develops and grows. Know how abor­tions are performed. 
jobnRoda 


.. 
I 
I ; ! 
• t 
'· 
.. 
~ 
You can please some of the people all of the time and all of the people some of the time, butyou can'tpleaseall ofthepeople all oftbetime. 
Notre Dame administration has a habit of trying never to step on anyone's toes. As there will be no housing lottery this spring, the Uni­versity is, in effect, making the students step on their own toes. About 100 men and 50 women will be crammed into already over­stuffed dormitories so that no one must face the "terrors" ofliving off campus. 

Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
Each year many students plead to remain on-campus their senior year; however, few realize the implications ofsuch a privilege. Be­cause so many seniors-to-be fear the supposed evils of Saint Joseph County, 100 freshmen will live in hastily converted study rooms while transfer students trudge a mile or more through the snow and rain from the very apartments and homes which mollycoddled seniors snubbed as inappropriate or as too far fmm campus. 
The administration views a ·lottery as the last possible alternative to prevent over­crowdin t g on campus. The time has come to see a housing lottery not as a t1nal alternative when all others have failed. but as the t1rst step to alleviating the overcrowding situation on campus. 
It is with a t1rm commitment to the better­ment of the total community that the Univer­sity must amend the housing lottery procedure: 
• 
All housing contracts be based on a per room availability, not upon individual con­tracts. 

• 
Contracts for on-campus housing be sub­mitted to the housing office by the last week ofDecember. 

• 
Based on these submissions, and expected number of underclassman transfers and fresh­men, the housing office, by the first week of January, will determine how many seniors-to­


_!Je must participate in a lottery. 


Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................ David Dziedzic Saint Mary's Editor...............Anne Monastyrski Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton NewsEditor.............................. Bob Vonderheide Production/Grapblcs...........Joseph Musumeci News Editor.................................Mack Worscheh Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower 
Depart:olent Managers 
Business Manager .............. -.......Daniel O'Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 


~ (219)239-5303 "f<.· ·c., AdvertisingManager,....~.................ChrisOwen Founded November 3,1966 ('. ~;t.':"iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
~---~-----_...--J-~. ------.......__.,. 
~-~~S H0 W C ~~~iiSiiiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiWiiediiinesiidaiiiiy,Aiipriiii16iii,liii98ii3iiipiiiagiie7 

Woes of Q broken QppendQge 
-Python's biting SQtite 
T
he Monty Python troupe, who inHoly Grail and Life ofBrian, have respectively slipped a metaphysical whoopee cushion un­der the epic myths ofKing Arthur and the Bible, have now turned their satiric talents toward the myth that human beings have some reason for beingon this planet in the first place.MontyPython's The Meaning ofLife does not purport to answer the question inherent in its title, but it does present mankind with a Swift ian sort ofsatire that is rarely seen in the Twentieth Century. The film examines the in­congruent grotesqueries of human life and magnifies these defects through derision that will send a lot ofpeople flocking out ofthe theatre and still more chuckling their socks off. 
Taking its form from the blackout and segue structure ofthe television show, the film takes a look at the stages ofa man's life in the same way that Woody Allen goked fun at sexuality inEvery:thing 
Dennis Chalifour 
movie r•vlew 

You Wanted to KnowAboutSex. Birth for example, is distorted into a satire ofover-hospitalization in which doctors ogle over super­fluous and expensive machinery and forget about the patient. It's also an excuse to poke some fun at the Catholic Church's doctrinal distaste for contraception in a song and dance routine that seems straight out ofCarrol Reed's Oliver. 
Probably the most amazing thing about the film is the texture it is given through the directorial efforts ofTerryJones and the special effects inspired by Terry Gilliam's art direction. Even when the jokes fall flat, the viewer's attention is still glued to the absurdly excessive scale ofproduction. The film begins with a short feature entitled "The Crimson Assurance Company" which snubs corporate structure and the pirate movie genre with one clean stroke. This par­ticular sketch is not necessarily a constant laugh riot, but the Swiftian detail it is given is nothing short offantastic. 
Most ofthe humor is derived through some notion ofexcess. One particular sketch which surely has made its mark on the mind of anyone who has seen the film deals with the sin of~lutt?ny. A ridiculously overweight TerryJones enters a posh French restaurant and immediately orders a bucket in which to throw up. This par· ticular brand of humor seems straight from the pages ofGulliver's Travels and will certainly drive a good number of people out of the theatre. Those who can see the satire building with each successive excess will delight in witnessing a fat man vomit. John Cleese's cheesy French waiter provides the perfect straight man for the humor in,this piece and it is through hischaracterization that middle class values are articulately battered. 
The troupe, comprised oforiginal television membersJohn Cleese, Michael Palin, Eric Idle, Graham Chapman, TerryJones, and Terry Gilliam, act in every other role as usual, and their perfor­mances are prime. It seems as though the Pythoners have taken the opportunity ofthb film to poke agreat deal offun at "ugly American" characters. These particular characterization~ are outstanding with John Cleese's west coast waiter and Graham Chapman's grotesque Bert Convy, Las Vegas entertainer leading the pack. 
The film uses a number ofsongs (mostly written by Eric Idle) to add punch to the satire. These are mostly hit or miss in provoking laughter but the production backing them is consistantly awe· inspiring. 
Surely, this is not a t11m for everyone. There are afew people in the world who can't see the humor involved in wrenching a man's liver from his abdomen. But those who are ardent fans ofthe Python troupe will certainly find much to chuckle about in this latest production. 
ome people receive cards or gifts for Easter. Some Speople just get the warm and loving affection oftheir families and the spiritual elation and release that accom­panies the high point ofthe liturgical season. I got all these and more. I got a broken finger in the bargain. On Friday, shortly after the celebration of the anniversary ofChrist's greatest sacrifice, a load ofwood dropped on the middle finger of my left hand. 
The fact that my left hand is now frozen in a position that most people would consider less than complimen­tary is relatively unimportant. What I fmd most distress­ing is how much I had underestimated the value ofthat finger. One rarely stops to consider how carefully God must have planned before he put together thefirst man. No doubt there were countless prototypes; these were 

Joe musumeci 
looking in 
all discarded sooner or later, much in the same manner as the grilfm, the sphinx, and the friendly cabbie. When God was finished, what resulted was the most wonder­ful little invention since the advent oftime and space: 
the human body. 
I have just recently begun to appreciate how well the partsofour bodies work and how much the whole thing is thrown off kilter by a malfunctioning piece. Nofthat my fmger is in a cast (something that is embarr~ing enough in its own right) it's amazing what acts of clumsiness arid sheer stupidity I have found myself able to perform with little difficulty at all. 
I have never given much thought to that particular finger, mostly because I am right-handed. 
When one performs almost all daily duties with the right hand, I don't suppose much attention is paid to its opposite, much less one finger thereof; but since injur­ing mine, I have discovered that there are a number of things one cannot do with one's finger in a cast.: 
1) Any two things at once. Most ofus probably don't realize how often we do more than one thing at the same time. For instance, try, right now, while reading this article to scratch the back ofyoui head. Now, im­agine that the middle finger on your scratching hand is the size ofa cucumber and throbbing in the advanced stages ofpure agony. Not a pleasant idea. 
2) Effectively perform any shower activity what· soever. They (members ofthe medical profession) said to keep the dressing dry. This is difficult enough in South Bend; trying to keep a dressing dry in a Holy Cross shower is an undertaking akin to paying the U.S. national debt in pesos. Showers were usually rather hurried exercises performed a few minutes before Iwas due in class; now they take more than half an hour, and the damn thing still gets wet by the time I'm done. 
3) Put on gloves. Self-explanatory. Why, oh why, couldn't this have happened in the summer? 
4)Wave hello with the injured hand. Whatever my fa· cia! expression at the time, I have found that most people find but one interpretation for a raised middle finger, and I'm not that fast a runner. 
5) Give two people a high five at the same time. Yes, I actually tried that. 
You get the idea I miss my finger. Despite the reputa­tion the middle finger has gained due to some people's derogatory use ofit, it serves a very valuable purpose with admirable proficiency. I think I have come to ap­preciate the importance ofall the little working parts we were born with, and to admire and respect even more those who were not fortunate enough to receive a complete set, or who lost some extremity through mis· chance. These peple have learned to cope with the cir­cumstances ofeveryday life with a real disadvantage and usually do so very well. 
I always remember the story about the body in which the various parts were arguing over who should rule the rest. The brain, the heart, all the major organs put forth unconvincing arguments, until finally the rectum, tired ofall the noise, shut down and remained thus for a month. He enjoyed, I assumed, a long and fruitful rule. 
This little digital episode has reminded me that all of our bodies, down to the smallest little cell, are integral parts ofthe greatest gift God ever gave Man. I wish that load ofwood hadn't landed on my finger. 
But I'm glad it missed my rear. 



e 
c

and Convocation Center last week,
Sarah Hamilton the Ice Capades Company tried to replace feelings ofpain, emptiness and exhaustion with smiles. 
There is no denying that the

features 

A 
themes and Muzakal accempani· line ofbeings robed in fuzzy ments became a bit nauseating at blue costumes, sliding around times. But not everyone objected. on ice to the tune of"la-la, Ia-Ia-Ia­Children, who seemed to comprise a Ia ...." Awhole team ofdancing majorityofthe audiences, were seen males and females on ice skates, dancing on their parents' laps, draped with bits and pieces ofOld chasing after Papa Smurfand Smur­Glory accompanied by a Muzak fette as they appeared throughout medley ofGeorge M. Cohan's the crowd, and just gazing star· greatest hits. Can these he mature struck at the pretty ladies whirling adults following a re~cted profes-and flying across the ice. Witnessing sion? · 
this youthful enjoyment, besides the Ofcourse they are. professional entertainment, drew 
They may not dedicate their lives smiles from the remaider of the to the salvation ofothers' bodies or audience. souls, nevertheless they do satisfy a major need ofsociety. They are en­The Ice Capades skaters did not tertainers. And like all entertainers find an answer to world hunger, or the memb<-rs ofthe Ice Capades of· put an end to the nuclear arms race, fer relieffrom the monotonous and but they did provide a few hours of often inhuman forces which hinder simple enjoyment and a reminder and advocate salvation. Through that there is more to life than con· their national tour, and in particular, tinuous worry about these dilem­in our community through their mas. And that fits my definition ofa eight performances at the Athletic respectable profession. 
The Observer/Lucian Niemeyer 

j 
---~·~-------------~------·---------------------~--------~------~--------------------­



~~()1rtS=L~J~,..~i=e~S======~========================w=e=dn=e=sd=a~y,=A=pr=n=6=,1=9=8=3==p=ag=e=s
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
ND-Miami football game will be moved to Sept. 24 from its original Nov. 26 date. The move was made at the request of CBS in order to televise the contest. The Irish season will now end on Nov. 19 -the earliest ending since 1898. -The Observer. 
Womens golfteam of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will hold a mandatory meeting today at 6:30 in Corby Hall. -The Observer. 
Fellowship ofChristian Athletes wm hold a meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in St. Ed's chapel. All are invited. -The Observer. 
JV' Lacrosse will practice today at 3:30 on Cartier Field. If you can't make it or if there are any questions, call Augie at 283­1025.-The Observer. 
Bookstore Basketball kicks off tonight with the second annual Hall ofFame game at 6: IS behind the Bookstore. Love and the Shooting Stars will take on The Even Worse Off. Anyone interested in keeping score during the tournament should call Suzanne LaCroix at 239-5313, Louise Mudd at 283-6732, or Rich O'Connor at 283-1468. -The Obsen1er. 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team fell behind 
early and never recovered last Saturday, dropping a I S-6 decision to 
C.W. Post College on Long Island. Post jumped out to a 9-2 lead at halftime and stretched the margin to 12-2 before the Irish could get anything going. Justin Driscoll was the star for Rich O'Leary's squad, scoring three goals and passing offfor another. Dan Pace, Tracy Cot-­ter, and Joe Franklin also added goals. Pat Poletti had six saves and Rob Simpson had 12 as they split the goaltending duties. The Irish now travel to Ohio State to take on the Buckeyes tonight. -The Observer 
Joe Piane'S trackteamcompeted over break in the 
S.E. Motion Relays in Cape Girardeau, Mo. The squad took first place in two relays and was on the way to another frrst when All-American Steve Dziabis pulled a hamstring while running away from the field. There will be more details on the team's performance and Dziabis' condition in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
An Tostal Mud Volleyball tournament begins 
today. Courts are set up across Juniper Road near Stepan Center. Games will be played every day until An Tostal weekend with the finals sited for Sunny Saturday. A schedule is posted outside the Stu­dent Union offices in LaFortune. -The Observer. 
Southern Calwon the Women's NCAA Basketball Cham­pionship by defeating Louisiana Tech, 69-67, Sunday in Norfolk, Va. The Trojans' Cheryl Miller scored 27 points en route to USC's second victory this season over the Techsters. Southern Cal and Louisiana Tech both finished with identical 31-2 records. -The Observer. 
John Paxsonscored ten points and pulled down a team­leading nine rebounds, but the East All-Stars lost 99-94 to the West, Sunday in the National Association of Basketball Coaches AU-Star game played in Albuquerque, N.M. The West, led by Arkansas' Dar­rell Walker ( I 7 points, seven rebounds), made 29 of 40 free throws 
and outscored the East from the free throw line 29-18 en route to the win. -The Observer. 
ND Women's soccer club defeated Saint Mary's yesterday 4-1 to take the Mishawaka YMCA Indoor Soccer League Championship. Notre Dame entered the playoffs as the fourth seed in the eight-team league. -The Observer. 
ND-SMC sailing club wm hold its weekly meeting for members and all officers todat at 6::30 at the boathouse. All mem­bers traveling to Marquette must attend. New members are welcome. -The Observer. 
Water Polotournament continues this week in the Rockne Memorial pool. Captains are reminded that their 55 fee must be paid or your team will not be allowed in the pool. Money can be placed in an envelope with the team name, and brought to 348 Farley. -The 
Observer. 

The open handball ladder will be forming 
soon. Anyone interested in participating should contactJoel Haling at 28:3·1794 before Monday, April 11. -The Observer. 
lnterhall baseball captains meeting will be held in the ACC auditorium tomorow at 4:30. Attendance is mandatory. If there are any questions call the NVA office at 239-5100 -The Ob­senler. 
• • • Fever 
continuedfrom page 12 
champion of the 16 sectionals. Each 
32-team sectional has a seed that is 
listed near the top of the bracket. 
The seedings are not meant to be taken that seriously, according to Dziedzic. 
"We do it just so that the top teams don't play each other right away," he explains. 
"We scheduled around a lot of conflicts this year," says Dziedzic, "including MCAT's, Senior Formal, the EIT exam for engineers, and, of course, football. Coach Faust has a rule that the football players can on­ly play at 6:1 S." 
Still, there is one possible conflict that Dziedzic and his assistants have no control over -the weather. The first day of last year's tournament, for instance, was played in a blizzard that dropped six inches of snow before the day ended. 
"The ground was dry a whole week ahead, and they fixed up the courts and everything," remem­bered Dziedzic, "but then it staned to snow about 2 p.m. that first day. Hopefully, the weather will cooperate this year." 
Dziedzic offered these reminders about the tournament. The team in the top of each bracket must wear light colored shirts, meaning white, yellow, or sky blue. Conversely, the bottom team of each bracket must wear dark colored shirts. 
Also, there will be no refs until the final 32, so each player will have to call his or her own fouls until then. 
It is suggested that each team bring an extra person along with them to assist the scorekeeper. "It is a good way to insure that all points and rebounds are marked for the right person," said Dziedzic. 
The commissioner offered these parting words. "I want to stress that if anyone is not sure about the eligibility of someone, they should call us and talk about it before the game. We will disqualify any team that uses an ineligible player." 

The Observer LaFonune office accepts classified  
advertising from 9  a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday  
l 1Classifieds  through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters. per day.  



-====================================================== 
LOST GOLD WATCH--WOMENS On GRAD STUDENT SEEKS SAME FOR PITTSBURGH CLUB Mandatory LUNCH AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL Tuesday. Apnl 5, between 11 :t5 and ROOMATE-HICKORY meettng for those mterested tn becom1ng CONCERNS Thursday. Apnl 7. t 1.30­
12:30. I lost 1t in e1ther room 119 Haggar VlllAGE,STARTING JUNE/CALL Hall, or en route to or tn ·c· line--North FRED 239-5845 
NOTICES PERSONALS next years oft1cers or m helpmg out 1 30 Great Lunch of Egg rolls. BBO beet 
Everyone welcome Wed Apnl6, ton1te, at etc cooked by Cambodtan refugees, a d1n1ng hall. If you ve found 1t. PLEASE call 
7pm Lafortune L1nle Theatre Cambodian teas! Donat1on $3.00. L1m1tTYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082. St Edward·s Hall 
Leanne at x7753 or x8983 Reward of· 
35. Call 239·5293 to reservations. fered tor tt's return. Your at1entton regard­
A SUMMER JOB IN INDPLS MEANS I Presents 
Typing All KINDS 277-8534 alter 6pm NEED TO RENT A ROOM FOR THE . ONE FLEW OVER 
Ing th1s matter IS deeply appreciated' REMEMBER
SUMMER HELP ME OUT? LUCY x3433 THE 
YEARBOOK SENIOR PORTRAITS! FOR SALE: SENIOR FORMAL TICKETI E'xpenenced Typ1st. t Mrs. Bedford, 288-
CUCKOOS NEST. 
APRIL5·22 $35. DAN 6795. 
-107. Hours Mon. thru Fri. 8 am to 5 pm. Wanled: Female Roomate lor 83-84 al Apnl7.8.9 
9·30· 1 AND 2-5 00 

Campus V1ew Apts Non-Smoker please 8PM 
SITTINGS TRADITIONAL $5.00 
TYPING IN MY HOME (RESUMES. LET· FOR RENT Call234·4250 after t t .00 p.m Washington Hall CONTEMPORARY$815
·:ERS. REPORTS. TERM PAPERS. Adm1sS1on $ t 00 TO THE FAMILy·s FIRST EASTER TO­
YOU CAN STILL SIGN UP FOR 
ETC.). NEAT. ACCURATE WORK, 82 NO graduate (currenl Northwestern GETHER.. WHAT MEMORIES' UNCLE 
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all YOUR PORTRAIT BY CALLING 
'lFASONABLE RATES. 233-7009. grad student) needs female roommate 1n TERRY'S JELLY-BEAN-EATING­
utihlies •ncluded June or Sept Call 319-239-5183 NOW! 
Evanston IL anyt1me after May Ideal for EASTER-EGG-CATCHING(or IS 1t spil­
322-8735 Patty The Observer Is always the Absur­PLEASE BRING EXACT CHANGE 
'"' 'ERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO another grad student or anyone workmg ling?) TALENT AUNTIE S 
derllll OR PAY BY CHECK ... THANKS! 
f'UING VERY REASONABLE RATES 1n Ch1cago. Call Rem al (3t2) 864-8494or EGG-PEELING EXPERTISE MOMS 
902 N. NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS. 
,.287-5162. (3t 2) 492·5045 HATS .DAD'S DANCIN DOGS ... THE 
FULLY FURNISHED, 9 MONTH LEASE. 
OMNIPRESENT CANDLE AND SIMON GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON

Everyone 1S gomg CUCKOO!!! "ONE SOPHOMORES--CLASS OF 1 985 Do & GARFUNKEL, of course 
HEAT. $335/MONTH 684-0933 (lOCAL DRIVING TO SENIOR FORMAL? We Lambk1ns & Co.
FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST." you w1sh to become 1nvolved 1n YOURCALL) need a ride up and back If you're go1ng up Hope your break was ntce. What can we
Apnl7.8,9 JUNIOR YEAR? AppliCations lor comm1s· 
on Saiurday morn1ng. g1ve us a calli T1m do nexi? We st1il have some t1me before
stoners and Jumor Advtsory Counctl are
HOUSE· Furn1shed. 1 m1 from campus. 4 (8631) or Joan (6983) fmals! Frwtcake & Alfred DAD. 
TYPING. Jackie Boggs, 684-8793. avatlable tn the Student Act1v1t1es Off1ce. 
~ONGRATULATIONS' YPOURR EGG 1st floor LaFortune and are due back 1n 
bdrm. 2 oath 7 bdrm. 2 bath CALL 277­WON THE FIRST ANNUAL FAMILY346!. HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE
Students! Remember to shop at Pan­the same office Fnday. Apnl 8th Lei's get EGG COLORING CONTEST. SORYTO DAYTON THIS WEEKEND (4/8 · 
nora's Books where you'll always save. 
mvolved! 
UNCLE TERY. rOlJ LOST. BUT WE T>lls weeks spec1aJ. all Theology and 
4/1 0). CALL L YN AT 2773. Thea Majors-and students comimg 
LOVE YOU ANYWAYS. Poelry 5&o off. Stop 1n and browse. 937 EARN $5000 thiS summer pa1nt1ng 
into the Theology Program next year: 
LOVE. MOM&SIS "iu. Bend Ave houses tn your hometown. Contact Place­
NEED RIDERS TO DAYTON THIS Today -Aprll6 -please attend the Pre­
WANTED 
WEEKEND. JIM 277·2736 registration Meeting and Open Forum

ment Otftce tor more 1nto and apphcatton in room 105 O'Shaughnessy at 4:30at Room 213. Adm. Bldg 
Need someone capable of translatmg R•de needed lo Pittsburgh on 418 Please P.M. 
HON-EEE Japanese 10 enough technical docu· call Kev1n at 277 • t 705. 

ARE YOU GOING TO BE WORKING
LOST/FOUND 

ments. Will pay$ t 5 per page and have 20 Carllon w. 
LATE AT THE OFFICE THIS WEEK? 

or more pages to be translaled. Call 237-You screwed up. But we s1111 like you. Terese. I still love you. you wench 
LOVE.. DE-ER2146 Does anyone oul there stilll1ke Carlton? 

LOST: CANON AE-1 CAMERA BEFORE If so. call X1501 WSND PRODUCTION BREAK. WILL PAY REWARD. NO 

FOR SALE

CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM 
WE'RE HOT BECAUSE WE 
QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL 283-1388 

DIRECTORS wanted for private M1ch1gan DO IT BETTER Ill 
ASKFORAL boys/girls summer camps. swtmming, Interested rn worktng and hvmg •n Cape canoeing, sading, skting, sports, rrffery, FREEZE NUCLEAR WEAPONS NOW! Do you need a nde to BOSTON? Leav1ng Cod or .Jersey rr,,s summer? We are archery. lenms. golf. crafts. camp1ng, Tshirt. Send $9.95. s/m/1/x: Antex. Rt2 on Apnl t 5 and relurmng on Apnl 19 Call lOoking for others to help fmd and share a gymnastics. calligraphy. dramatics. Box 536 Hillsboro Or 97123 John al1207. desperately need nde lo and from MIL· summer apartment or house. Call Martha cheerlead1ng, guitar M. Seeger, 1 765 WAUKEE THIS WEEKEND please call x1514 or l1bby and Nancy x2963 1f you Maple, Northfield. IL 60093. Send details. t 3" COLOR TV 277-8534 AFTER 6 YOU'AEAllABUNCHOFLOSEASJJI Sheila2911 have 1nfo. or are 1nterested. 




The Observer Sports Extra-A game of mixed doubles Wednesday, April6, 1983-page 9 
A No.1 player adds 'class' to team 
McMahon ends career as top ND male 
By MARK B.JOHNSON have here are guys who came with­much in order to do as well academi­Sports Writer out scholarships -guys who really cally and athletically as he has. want to play-andfeel that tennis is "Academically, I needed a school 
"You can't let anyone offthe hook, a high priority. They came here to where I would have to be dis-· because if you do, they are going to study and they came here because ciplined," says McMahon. "I am hap­come back and get you," stated they like Notre Dame." py I came here for that reason, senior Mark McMahon with a sense As a freshmen, McMahon quickly although sometimes I regret it on of experience. "In college tennis became acquainted with the weekends. At first, it bugged me, but matches, it is ebb and flow, and, program and almos,t immediately it is something now that.! realize you when I was younger, I lost a few on earned the starting nod from Coach have to accept, and I would say the experience." Tom Fallon. at No. I singles, main sacrifice is with a social life. 
It appears that this little rule-of­dominating his chaUenge matches "I try to channel as much energy thumb has paid off for McMahon, as against tough upperclass teammates. as possible into both tennis and he has steadily improved since arriv­Since then, he has relinquished his school. I try to keep them both in a ing at Notre Dame in 1979. spot only once, losing only one chal­high priority, but even higher than 
Not that he really needed much lenge match in his four-year tenure. that, you cannot lose perspective of improvement, though. Before his ar­Starting No. I as a freshmen had its the fact that you are just lucky to be rival in South Bend, he was 1979 San price, though, as McMahon had to out there playing and lucky to be at Diego City singles champion, ranked endure the pressure of playing the this school among other things." third in San Diego County and 21st best opponents and overcome some ldzik had nothing but praise for in Southern California, twice leading resentment by teammates who him. Point Lorna High School to the San didn't think a freshman should be "Mark McMahon in four years has Diego Eastern Conference title-from the top singles player. helped to make Notre Dame's tennis his No. I singles and doubles spots. "It worked out pretty well, as we team a first-class operation. He is a 
Not too shabby for a young man were all team players. The guys class act, and he has really rubbed off who only started playing serious ahead of me set a great example," on the rest ofus and the program as a competitive tennis at age I3. remembers McMahon. "When I first whole. With his favorite saying, 'The 
"You get beat up a lot at first," came here, I was amazed by the team sun will rise tomorrow,' he keeps remembers McMahon. "I've put in atmosphere, and I hope that I have everything in perspective." quite ofbit oftime over the years. If! been able to do as well as my Although the NCAA tournament didn't play three hours a day, I felt predecessors in continuing the looks doubtful this season, Mark like I was really cheating myself, but closeness and unity." McMahon definitely has his now ...." · Freshman No. 3 player Joe Nel­priorities straight. Indeed, it appears 
Now, McMahon is returning from ligan comments, "I definitely view that the sun is just beginning to rise a record 27-2 season in which he Mark as a positive force on the team. on Mark McMahon and his tomor­qualified for the NCAA tournament, He is having a tough time this year, row. only to lose a three-set match to the but he still has a positive attitude be­eventual champion. He is also a well­cause he puts the team ahead ofhim­respected team captain and serving self. He is a very good influence, his fourth stint as No. I singles especially to us younger players." 


A former No.1 tries to find form 
player. He also teams with fellow While it is true that McMahon has senior Paul Idzik to form the No. 2 gotton off to his wqrst start ever at doubles team. Notre Dame-he now stands at Il­
Panther begins climb back to top spot
"Mark understates his importance l 0 -the record does not truly to the team, but he has been just a represent the quality ofhis play. superb captain," says Idzik of his "His problem this year is that he is ByJANE· HEALEY changed," Petro says. "She had a It was the vision of just such com­
doubles partner. "Playing doubles concentrating more on the team AssistantSports Editor little bit ofa temper when the season panionship that drew the Kansas 
with him is a lot of fun, as he keeps than his own game," states Fallon. began. I won't tolerate that kind of native out of her hometown of things in perspective." McMahon has a similar opinion When the Notre Dame women's action on ~y team. The main reason Prairie Village. She was recruited by On top of the hard work, though, about his slow start. tennis team ma,.es its first home ap­is because that kind of behavior dis­other schools such as Arizona State, is quite a bit of talent that McMahon "I think that I have improved con­pearance of the spring season tracts you from your game." Duke, and Georgia, but, after visiting downplays. Talent that so impressed siderably since my arrival here, and I against Northwestern University While making her adjustments Notre Dame, her decision was made. the University of San Diego and San think that I may even be a better today, freshman Susie Panther will "My father and my uncle went to Diego State that they offered him player this year, but a lot of it has to be playing in the fifth singles slot. Notre Dame," she says. "I don't scholarships, but he opted instead to do with getting the breaks. I have For the first scholarship recruit in think, though, that I came as -much brave Indiana weather and attend progressed every year, and this year Irish tennis history and a girl who for them. When I visited, I really 
Notre Dame without a scholarship. I think progression has been not on­was playing first singles at the begin­liked the people. I liked the atmos­"I decided that Notre Dame was ly on the court, but also offcourt. It is ning ofthe year, the apparent demo­phere here a lot more than the other going to be it. I knew that it was a a different story when you are trying tion isn't easy to take. schools that recruited me." strong academic school, and ·I felt to go out there and be captain -you "I've never played below first After getting to Notre Dame, Pan­that I would be able to play tennis have to try to help the guys and al­singles -not here or in high school ther assumed a predestined role as for them," he explains. "It is an im­ways be there." or anything," Panther says. "It's a first singles. After two frustrating pressive program because what we 
McMahon has had to sacrifice psychological thing. I play better at months away from her position, and the top because I feel like I have no­competing now at fifth singles, Pan­thing to lose. Everyone you play is ther has her eye set on regaining the 
good. To go from first to fifth singles top spot. and lose matches is pretty bad." "I would like to regain my No.1
The Lineups 
At this point though, Panther is. position,"she says. "It's going to be a just happy to be able to pick the rac­lot of work for me, but I want to do quet up. In the middle of the fall it." season, during a match against Whether Panther makes it to the
SINGLES 

Wheaton College, Panther twisted top slot before the end ofthe season her lower back reaching for an op­remains to be seen. Butshe is not bit­
Susie Panther 

Men's Women's penent's freak shot. ter about the bad fortune that has fal­"I thought, 'Okay, it'll take two or comforting atmosphere among her len on her. three days and I'll be all right,' even teammates. "While I was out, I learned to be
No.1 Mark McMahon Mary Colligan 
though I was in a lot of pain," Pan­"I really love the team,'' she says. more patient," she says. "I'm not ther says. "I had never had a serious "I get along with everyone. I like shakey and there's no more pain. I No.2 Mike Gibbons Lisa LaFratta injury before. I just kept playing un­them all. They made the transition to feel a lot more confident and I want til I finally had to stop." college life a lot easier." to make it to nationals." 

Mark McMahon 

Panther was forced to leave the 
No.3 Joe Nelligan Laura Lee lineup shortly after the injury was sustained. She attempted to play in a tournament over Christmas, but still
No.4 1ohn Novatny Pam Fishette experienced pain. For the next two months, Panther did nothing -no tennis, no conditioning, nothing.
No.5 Doug Pratt Susie Panther Needless to say, the team missed Panther's talents. "Susie has excellent footwork,"
No.6 Tim Noonan Cathy Schnell 
Coach Sharon Petro says. "She has 
good ground strokes. It's really hard 
to put the ball away on Susie. She
DOUBLES knows how to drive a tennis ball. Most people hit a tennis ball, not drive it."
No.1 Noonan-Novatny Colligan-Fishette 
Petro has praise for her first recruit, but she cautions that Pan­ther was not perfect when she
No.2 Paul Idzik-McMahon Lee-LaFratta 
arrived here. There were some things that needed to be changed. No.3 Gibbons-Tom Pratt Schnell-Lisa Gleason "Her behavior on the court has 





Irish host No.6 NU 
I 
The potential is there. Anyone said. 'cln the fall we didn't play in the north dome of the ACC at such tough competition. The 
3:30 today could witness a daz­girls will be playing one-on-one zling display of tennis talents. with some big names. They take The Northwestern University that as a challenge." 
women's tennis team, ranked Petro is not without her con­sixth in the nation, meets Notre cerns, though. The Irish are com­Dame in a head-to-head match­ing off a fairly successful Easter up. weekend. They lost to Michigan Instead ofbeing nervous or up­State and University of Michigan 
tight about facing the Wildcats, -both Division I schools -but though, Coach Sharon Petro is they beat Eastern Michigan and surprisingly calm. She is actually Morehead State. The latter was 
looking forward to match. the best Division II school in the "Usually the team looks for­Midwest last season. ward to a match like this," Petro 
-Jane Healey. 

The Observer Wednesday, April6, 1983-page 10 
NCAA Champion 
Lunch at the Center for Social Concerns 


N.C. St. slams Phi Slama Jama
Thursday, April 7, 11:30-1:30pm 
Lunch will be cooked and served by Cambodian Refugees-a typical Cambodian meal consisting of the following menu: 
Egg Rolls Fried Rice BBQ Beef-on-a-stick 
Donation-$3 This will be the first of a series of International lunches that we hope to make ava~lable periodically at the Center. Reservations are limited to the first 35 persons-Call 239-5293 
...,..~~~ ....................~...,......,.. ...........,.....,...~~...............................~................................1 ~ The Saint Mary's Blue Mantle needs ~ \ ENTHUSIASTIC, HARDWORKING & \ ~ motivated people ~ 
\ to assume next year's ~ ~ Editor & General Staff Positions\ 
\Aplications may be picked up!at the Student Activities Off1ce  ~ l  
\  Deadline: April 7  ~  
~  Applications may be picked up at the  ~  
\  Student Activities Office.  ~  
~Deadline:  April 7  ~  

~~~~....................~~............~...,.....,..~~~ .................,.....,......,~ 
THE HARLEM 
GWBETROTTERS® 
SAT., APRIL 9 7:30PM Notre Dame ACC 
Prices: $7.50 (lower arena) 
$6.00 (bleachers) Notre Dame & Saint r-!lary's Students: $2.00 ciscount. Tickets on sale at A.C. C. Box Office, 9AM to 5PM 


fRill 
VOlT BASKETBALL 
WITH THE PURCHASE or ONE PAIR Or 
adidas..._~-~ 
ProModel or Superstar Basketball Shoes 

University Commons Scottsdale Mall Linway Plaza, Goshen 


ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP)-At Akeem Olajuwon in the first halfthat the moment of his greatest triumph, cut the Wolfpack lead to five. excitable Jim Valvano was almost ".We knew how much they loved subdued. to dunk and that dunks had a way of 
"It's awesome. I'm almost speech_­sparking them on," said Thurl Bailey, less," he said. "I've got no funny North Carolina State's 6-foot-11 lines. I'm simply in awe ofthis team." senior forward. "That was some· 
The North Carolina State coach's thing we were thinking about all dream of a national championship along -control the game, not get culminated with perhaps the most destroyed on the boards, not give up improbable statistic of the 1982-83 a lot of transition baskets and not college basketball season · Houston give up a lot ofdunks." had only one dunk, while the Valvano had said for two days he Wolfpack methodically att;u.:kcd the would try to slow down the tempo Cougar~ and won 5+52 in the NCAA against the powerful top-ranked championship game Monday night. Cougars. But, to the amazement of 
"That was one of the things we the Wolfpack, it was Houston Coach wanted to do -kn·p them from Guy Lewis who put on the brakes. having a lot ofdunb," said Valvano, With about l 0 minutes to play and whose happy-go-lucky demeanor Houston back on top by five points, and witty quips are his trademarks. Lewis slowed it down. 
Tl-:,· ,-,~h-''""" •);1c Phi <;f;~majama The Cougars made one of their 
fratern' .Jt was a follow shot by patented ru;;s at the outset of the 
AnENTION FRESHmEN: Sign up for 
Sophomote Litetaty Festival 
chairman & executive committee 

in Student Union offices 
2nd floor Lafortune 
April 5-8 


GET INVOLVED! 
Student Union Publicity Department 
needs enthusiastic, hardworking *administrators *poster hangers($) *artists 
for next year. No experience necessary Contact Ann at S.U. 239-7605 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for ND/SMC students (Sx lOspace $18.SOpermonth) 
CALL 259·0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 816 East Me Kinley 
·Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 

Tonight is the Last Chance to Join the Ballroom Dance Class 
The ballroom dance classes at Saint Mary's have been very popular & this will be the final class before summer break 
Tonight will be the second lesson of a 5 
week ballroom dance class that is being held on Saint Mary's campus in the Regina Hall lounge basement from 8:30pm-1 O:OOpm 
Ray Sexton from Indianapolis is teaching this class & the total cost for the remaining 4 weeks is only $20 

6:30pm· 8:00pm 2nd level class 
(only for those who took 1st level) 8:30pm -10:00pm 1st level class This offer is limited to Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students only 
second halt; a 17-2 spree that tumed Nonh Carolina State's 33-25 halftime lead into a 42-35 Houston advantage. But Valvano said it was exactly what North Carolina State was expecting. 



Irish golf team wins dual match 
By MATIJOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
Thanks to the effons of juniors 
David :-.toorman and David 
Pangraze, the Notre Dame Men's 
Golf team faircd well in both of the 
tournaments they pani<."ipated in 
this weekend. Unfonunately, the 
Irish were unable to play two other 
scheduled tournaments this 
weekend. Both were cancelled be­
cause ofinclement weather. 
Last Thursday, Moorman led the 
Irish over Valparaiso at Notre Dame 
in the first dual meet of the year, 
shooting a 69. 
Pangraze, staning his third con· secutive campaign, gamered the top spot for the Irish yeasterday at The Ball State Invitational. shooting a team high 74. 
Coach Neal O'Sullivan, staning his tenth year at the helm for Notre Dame, was u.nderstandably pleased with this weekends results. 
"We drew a lot of good numbers out there, and thing.s are really looking good so far." 
Ironically, Moorman credits thi 
weather for much ofthe success the 
Irish attained this weekend. 
"Even though the weather was disappointing this weekend, overall it has helped us this year." said the South Bend native. "The mild winter this year has made playing easy and allowed us more preparation than last year at this time." 
Moorman, apparently unshaken by the foreboding showers that can­celled tournaments Saturday and Sunday against Tri-State and Xavier, shot 16 pars and 2 birdies in the best effon ofhis career. 
:'Everything went well, especially my plUting." 
Also shooting well for the Irish against Valparaiso were John O'Donovan, (73); Craig Peters, ( 75 ); Frank Leyes, ( 75 ); and Pangr<1ze, ( 75 ). 
BSN Nurses 
Ready tor More Educational Opportunities 
As an Army nurse, you can 
apply for nurse practitioner or 
clinical specialtycourses, or 
enroll in graduate degree 
programs 
If you qualify, you can receive 
all your tuition, pay, and 
allowances while attending a 
civilian university full time. 
Army Nursing Specialty courses 
are also available. Each is con· 
ducted in an Army hospital 
where you receive actual 
clincal experience that is com· 
bined with theoretical study. 
These courses teach the most 
advanced technique in that 
specialty 
Currently, Nurse Practitioner 
courses in pediatrics, 08/GYN, 
&adult medical surgical care 
are being offered. A midwifery 
course &anesthesiology 
program are also available, both 
leading to Masters Degrees. 
For more information contact 
your Army Nurse Recruiter: 
Sergeant Dan Clawson 
(219) 872-8634 
Call Collect 
Army. Be All You Can Be. 


Ihe~~r========================================= 


~~4()l~~===========================W=e=d=n=e=sd=a=y,=A=p=r=il=6=,1=9=8=3===p=ag=e=l=l

Bloom County 
~--------------~ 
I'M NORMA THE NVKf, 
816 BOY...JUST WAN"!EP YA 10 KNCJJJ "THAT I'U. 8€ COMIN' FOR YA fiJif'f-PAY... 



The Daily Crossword 

© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 4/6/83 

Or/ TlfE riMTH QI.Jf/D, SIR, DtfK,ONftL TO THE WDMEN cF Ff/RLEY. 
l 

Berke Breathed 

Jeb Cashin 
David]. Adams 
Campus 
•9 
a.m.· 4 p.m.-Book Sale, Library Concourse, Sponsored by Friends of the Library 

•2 
p.m.. S p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs. Northwes­tern, Courtney Courts 

•4 
p.m. -Architecture Lecture, "Perceptual Resources and Awareness ofEvironments," Robert Amendola, Architecture Auditorium •-!:30 p.m. -Reilly Chemistry Lecture, "The Application of Isolobai Relationships to the Syn· thesis of Metal Cluster Compounds," Prof. F. Gor­den A. Stone. 123 Nieuwland Science 


•: p.m. -Hunger Seminar, Ms. Kim Bobo, Center for Social Concerns , Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition 
•"' p.m. -Campus Crusade for Christ, Library Lounge 
•""' and 10:1 S p.m. -Filni, "Patton." Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NDSU, S 1 
• 
., p.m. -Film, "Children of Paradise," Carroll Hall, SMC, Sponsored By SMC French Club. Sl. SO 

•H 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, St. Ed's Chapel 

•H 
p.m. -Lecture, "We Irishmen Cannot Attain to the Truths," Prof. Margaret D. Wilson, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•H:JS 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Role of Punishment: Is Capital Punishment Ever Justified," Dr. Conrad Kellenberg, 11 S O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 


T.V. Tonight 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. llp.m. 

16 :vl-A·S·fl 
22 Lavcorne and Shirley 
28 Joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeii/Lehrcor Rcoport 
16 All in the familv 
22 family feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Real Peopk 
22 Sevcon Brides l(>r Seven Brothers 
28 High Performance 
34 National (ieographic 
16 facts of Life 22 CBS Wednesday Night Movie 
28 The fall Guy 
16 family Ties 
16 Quinn· 
28 Dynasty 
16 NcowsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitncoss News 
28 Newswatch 2H 814T IF ~T DrD, WE. '0 HAVE aEE/IJ SEfN IAI 

f>APEilS AL.L oVeR 
THE couNTtfYj 
ACROSS 33 Pa.ssable 1 Cougar 34 Taiwan 5 Cubicles capital 
10 Continental 36 Umpire's 

prefix call 14 Summit 37 Marketplace 15 Sayonara of Greece 16 In a jiffy 39 Japanese 17 Ore deposit apricot 18 Onerous 40 Concealed 20 Objective difficulty 21 Gait 42 Take it on 22 Persian the-
Gulf vessel 43 Salad 23 France's vegetable longest 46 East of river Indiana 
25 Traffic 47 Relating 
jam sight to memory 27 Guarantee 49 Defender 29 Jawbone of Troy 
March 30 Solution 


3t31tB3 
51 -da fe 52 Laundry appliance 53 Partner of 
stripes 56 Sharpen 57 Mayday 60 Unwieldy 63 Cupola 64 Biblical 
victim 65 "-moi le deluge" 66 Mideast potentate 67 Hawaii's 
state bird 68 Foundation 69-noire 
DOWN 1 Haggard 2 Atop 3 Officious 4 Logger's 
tool 5 Nightclub 6 Extract 7 Milan 
money B Ushered 9 Litigate 
10 St. Francis 
0~­
11 Deceive 12 European capital 13 Unique individual 
19 Scandina­
vian 21 Glutton 24 Skunk 
trait 25 May and Cod 26 French 
donkey 27 Hymn 28 Josh or 
Ella 29 Copycat 30 Annoying 31 Santa­32 Group char· 
acteristic 35 Sound 
system 38 Excite 41 Top-notch 44 Pismire 45 Hitch up 48 Agate 50 Evil­52 Japanese 
news agency 53 Peruse 54 Vacuum 
or inner 55 Assent 
word 56 -d'oeuvres 58 Disregard 59 Parched 61 Mortar 
mixer 62 Resort 63 Ingenue 
The Far Side 

"Kids! Kids! ... The slugs ore bock!" 
~ ~.......... ~~~~.....,._...,......,......,......,.....,..~...,..~........-...,.....,.. ............,....a...r'l~....,..,l 
~  ~  
\ Interested in beingl NAZZ ! DIRECTORl For 1983-84  ~ lI ~  
~  Apply in S.U. office  ~  
~  ~  

L~_.._.._.._.._.._.._...._..._._.._.. ___.._...._..._.._..._..._._.._..~ 

----~------~~--~------­


Wednesday, April6, 1983-page 12 

At tight end 
Gray, Bavaro, Behmer give depth 
By THERON ROBERTS seasons, tight ends have led the team tight end position, we have a lot of Sports Writer in receptions six times. Hunter has good players who are going after the led the Irish in catches for the last position and whoever makes it as a High on the list ofthings that need three years, with his best effort com­starter will be good." to be accomplished before the ing in 1982 with 42 grabs. Three freshmen who will 'toss completion of spring football is the During the spring, four upperclas­their helmets' into the tight end establishment of a new man at the smen will try to take an early lead in derby when school starts in the fall tight end position. the tight end sweepstakes. Juniors will also compete for the starting 
Gone is last year's starter and all­Mark Bavaro, Brian Bel)mer, Ricky berth. Joe Williams, a Sporting News America Tony Hunter. Second­Gray and Steve Wilhertz are the con­all-America selection, from Mon­string end John Sweeney also tenders for the position. roeville, Pa., James Bobb from Port 
graduates. In fact, no monogram Gray and Bavaro are the current Arthur, Tex., and Tom Rehder from winners return. The Irish definitely frontrunners. Santa Maria, Calif.-will all join the have a slot to ftll. Both players have earned a long tight end ranks. 
list of accolades before coming to Gray thinks that it will be difficult Notre Dame. for any of the freshmen to get the
Spring Football 
While at DeMatha High School, starting nod, but he does not ques­Gray was named Player of the Year tion their talent or their certain
'83 
by The Washington Post, in addition value to the team. to being named an all-American by Bavaro, highly touted as a high 
The Irish coaches realize that they Parade Magazine. He caught 33 school senior in Massachusetts, was might not have an athlete like Hun­passes for l,li.Ore than 550 yards unanimously named to Parade's ter to insert in the void, but that is during his high school career. first-team all-America squad, as well not to say that Notre Dame will be In the final game ofhis senior year, as other All-American honors. without a capable replact;.nent. Gray's team suffered a loss to Arch­Bavaro, played on the prep team 
The tight end position has been a bishop Carroll, the result ofa touch­as a freshman, and saw limited action 
key for the Irish in recent years. down pass caught by Joe Howard last year. After seeing some playing Names such as Dave Casper ( 1973), with I 7 seconds left in the game. time in the Michigan game, he Ken MacAfee ( 1974-77 ), Dean Gray began his college football injured his hand and was out for six Mazstak ( 1978-81 ), and Hunter career in the warmth of South weeks. 
Casper -who made his mark in the Tigers, starting in three, but 242-lbs, looks towards the fall as the the pros first with the Oakland catching just two passes. real test for the tight ends. Raiders -and MacAfee were first "Things didn't go like I expected "We're just looking to improve in team All-Americans during their at Clemson," says the 6'4, 220-lb the spring, so I can't say what is 
Notre Dame careers, while Hunter ' Gray. "They threw to the wide going to happen in the fall," explains ranks as the top pro prospect this receivers and didn't get it to the Bavaro, "It's hard to tell much after 
It wasjackie Moran's two-run single that tied the second game year. tight ends very much. I also wanted a five practices. ofyesterday's doubleheader with Xavier. Notre Dame went on to As reflected in statistics, Notre better education than what I was "I feel most comfortable blocking, win 5-3, giving the Irish the sweep over the Musketeers. For more Dame's quarterbacks have made a getting." so I'll be working on running pat­information on yesterday's games and all the Irish games over habit of throwing to their tight ends That led to Gray's transfer to Holy terns to get open and use my speed." break, see Mike Sullivan's story below. since 1975. For the last eight Cross junior College, where he Bavaro, like Gray, prefers to 
stayed for three semesters. He then reserve comment on the incoming transfered to Notre Dame in the fall freshmen. He points out that he of 1982. wasn't ready to start as a freshman. 
Regain confidence 

Gray is only the second football "It takes time to get the ex­player to transfer here; the other was perience in games." fullback Larry Moriarity. Behmer, at 6'6 and 212-lbs, is
Irish nine win 5-of-6 over break 
After spending most oflast season presently the third-team player. learning plays and playing on special "I just try to go out there and doByMIKE SULLIVAN wins. The Irish blew a comfortable shutout. But, with runners on first teams, Gray is ready for the chal­my best," says Behmer, "I know
Assistant Sports Editor lead in the first game and forced and second, third baseman Carl 
lenge ofgoing for the position as the everyone else is doing a good job.
themselves to go into the extra Vuono could not handle a grounder, top tight end. _,For some people, Easter Break is a frames before getting the win. They allowing Xavier to stay alive. The "This spring I'm trying to get all of All agree that the position is agood time to catch up on work. For redeemed themselves in the second next batter tripled in three runs and the plays down, and gain some con-· definitely a priority for next year'sothers, it's a time to relax and catch game, however, as they came from a the game was sent into overtime. 
fidence," says Gray. "This is my first offense -and with the depth andup on sleep. For the Notre Dame two-run deficit to win. There was not nearly as much spring here and I'm a little anxious talent exhibited by those competingbaseball players, Easter Break was a The second game, played in an oc­drama in the other four games as ex­about playing. It's going well so far, for the job this spring, and next fall,time to get back the confidence that casional downpour, may have been ceilent Irish pitching kept Val­but I think I can improve more. Gerry Faust's wish list may be oneII losses in 14 games had taken the highlight ofthe break. Unlike the paraiso in check, holding the Valpo "Notre Dame has always used the item shorter by the time the Irish in­away. first game, and many ofthe previous batters to just ten hits in two games, tight end in its offense. I don't think augurate the season at Purdue inFive wins in six games, including games, the Irish made the plays in and was effective against Xavier in that anyone should worry about the September.
three Midwestern City Conference the field when they counted and let the first doubleheader on Monday. 
victories, did the trick. the other team make the costly er­Bill Matre was the most im­"The only way to get confidence ror. pressive as he pitched two in oneself," explained Irish coach Buster Lopes started on the complete-game victories. He 
Largest hoops tourney; 
Larry Gallo, "is to do something that mound for Gallo. The sophomore shutout Xavier, 9-0, on just six hits gets positive results." overpowered the Xavier batters for after allowing Valparaiso six hits and The positive results included a the first three innings, allowing just no earned runs. The impressive out­
pairof4-2 wins at Valparaiso and vic­one hit. But inactivity began to pay ings dropped his ERA below 2.00. 
Bookstore XII tips off 
tories in three of four games with its price in the fourth as he got tired. Steve Whitmyer also pitched very players on campus."
MCC rival, Xavier. The fine showing The Musketeers took advantage of well, winning a four-hitter over Val­ByJEFFBLUMB turned a poor 3-11 record into a this and scored three runs before paraiso before being victimized by Sports Writer The Even Worse Off, captained by 
Mike Cornett and Larry Augustine
decent 8-12 slate and gave Gallo and Tom Conlin relieved Lopes. The poor Irish fielding in a 6-3 loss to from Flanner Hall were chosen to
his young squad a boost as they start runs put Xavier in the lead, 3-1. Xavier. Campus basketball junkies have anxiously been awaiting its coming play in the game entirely at random. 
into a marathon 54-game schedule. The Notre Dame hitters had GregJaun and Conlin also picked "I hope this (break) was a turning problems coming up with the big hit up wins for Notre Dame. since March 17, the end of the Irish The 5 12 teams in this year's said varsity season -tournament it the World's
r oint in the season," Gallo. that they needed to get them back "I was really pleased with now, it's finally makes 
here. Largest Basketball Tournament, al­"We're hitting a lot better now and into the game -until the sixth in­everybody," said Gallo. "Everyone is 
though the Guinness Book ofWorld
we're still getting some darn good ning. Taking advantage of Xavier preparing themselves better in­Bookstore XII. Bookstore Basketball returns to Records has not officially recorded it
pitching. There's nothing better fielding problems and the lack of dividually and you've got to be than hitting a good streak -you just control of the Musketeer pitchers, prepared ind.vidually ifyou're going Notre Dame for the 12th time as such. can't wait to get out to the park for the Irish loaded the bases with only to be prepared as a team." tonight with the second annual Hall 
the next game." one out. The team's sudden success over of Fame game starting at 6:I 5 on Things definitely seemed to be Second baseman Jackie Moran the break does not surprise Gallo. Bookstore court 9. Love and the 
Bookstore XI1 
going well for the Irish yesterday as then delivered a two-run single to "That (the sudden change in a Shooting Stars will square off against they followed a doubleheader split knot the score at 3-3. The rally did team's fortunes) is why baseball is The Even Worse Off as competition ofXavier with a 4-3, 5-3 sweep ofthe not stop ther_e as Chryst came played more than practiced," he begins to see who will succeed Full '~usketeers. Both games were through with his game-winner. said. "You can look real bad one day House as Bookstore Champion. 
chosen people)
decided in Notre Dame's last at bat. "Rick Chryst was something like 0 and real good the next. The two teams were to "They (the Guinness 
have us on file and have told us toGreg Hudas' bases-loaded single in for 6 at the plate up to that point in "But it's difficult to tell a team lead off this 512-team tournament call ourselves 'The World's Largest
the IIth gave the Irish the win in the the day," said Gallo, "but I didn't with as much inexperience as ours for different reasons. Love and the first game, while Rick Chryst want anyone else at the plate in that that had lost three one-run games in Shooting Stars were tabbed because Basketball Tournament' until 
someone tells otherwise," explained
clinched the nightcap with a particular spot." a row, that there is still a long way to oftheir top two players, Irish varsity 
clutch more Dziedzic. "But they are not willing
tiebreaking single in the sixth. The hitting than go. Just like you can lose a lot of forward Karl Love and guard John Frierot. to open up any new categories at
The pair ofwins was a good way to made up for the poor fielding that ground with three straight losses, send the team into its next game almost cost Notre Dame the first you can gain a lot ofground in a hur­"We figured that they were an at­this time." tomorrow against Bethel College. game. ry. traction because of Karl Love," says Ateam will need nine victories to 
win this year's tournament and, on
While they were both marked with Irish starter Mark Clementz "I'm still confident that we'll have Tournament Commissioner Dave late-inning heroics, however, they breezed into the seventh with a 3-0 a real good year," he added, "but Dziedzic, "and a lot of people see Sunday, April 2-4, emerge as the were actually very different kinds of lead and was one out away from a we've got a long way to go." Frierot as one of the best non-varsity see FEVER,page 8 




