
Appalachians -page 5 

VOL XVIII, NO. 59 the inlkpem.knt ~tulknt lll"w~papl-r ~ening notn dame and "aim mary·~ TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1983 

Rectors delay action on food sales report until meeting next Jan nary 
Senate undecided about disclosure 
ByDAN McCUllOUGH 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The Rectors Committee of the 
Office ofStudent Affilirs has delayed 
addressing a report on the condi­
tions of dormitory food sales until 
next year, said Committee Chairman 
Father Thomas King, yesterday. 
The report recommends food 
sales be limited only to pre­
packaged food, eliminating sales of 
student-prepared foods such as piz­
za 
"Nothingwas decided completely at the meeting," King said 
Father David Noone, rector of Grace Hall, agreed that "everything was really left up in the air" at the meeting, which was held last Tues­day. "Nothing was really decided. Each rector is going to go back and review the report with the focd sales' managers and then decide what is to be done," he said. The next meeting ofthe committee will be in january. 
ByELIZABETH FLOR 
News Staff 
~Jqltt 
The Student Senate has not taken 
StevePfeifer,jimSlattery andSBPBrian Callag­
an official stand on the issue of dis­
Christmas han watch as john Gallagher puts Christmas 
closure of University investments 
lights on one of the trees in the new mall. The 
because it has not decided whether
spirit 
lighted trees will add a touch ofChristmas spirit 
the issue is the business of student 
to the quad. 
government, said Peter DiChiara, 


Actor Jones to tell story of Lear 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
News Staff 
Actor james Earl jones, star of more than 20 major films, will present a one-man show tonight at 8 in Washington Hall. His appearance is the climax ofthe Shakespeare film series, sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters. 
jones will tell the story of Shakespeare's King Lear and will in­termittently perform the title role which he played in the New York Shakespeare Festival at the Delacortc Theatre in Central Park in 
1973. 
"James Earl Jones is commonly 

Jets fly over Beirut after attacks 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -U.S. jets thundered over Beirut yesterday af­ter two overnight attacks on American Marines, and gunners shelled the capital's harbor for the first time since the summerof1982. 
In Tripoli, besieged PLO chiefYas­ser Arafat accused Syria of massing troops ncar the port city. 
The American jets flew reconnais­sance sorties over Beirut and n<oarby hills afterthe attacks on Marine posi­tions. The shooting caused no casualties to the Marines and only minor damage to the Beirut airport where the Marines are stationed. 
The 15-minutc bombardment of the port wounded four construction workers shortly after noon, however. Police were unable to referred to as one ofAmerica's finest 
actors of all time," said Professor 
Paul Rathburn, one ofthe organizers 
of the event. "He is also referred to 
a'i the most distinguished black ac­
tor in the world today." 
jones has received honorary doc­torates in Humane Letters from Yale, Princeton, and Columbia, as well as the University of Michigan, his alma mater. His film credits include roles in Dr. Strangelove, The Great White 
Hope, Conan the Barbarian, The Greatest and Malcolm X. More recently,jones has been the voice of the villain Darth Vader in the Star Wars trilogy. 
The actor also has appeared in 

determine who was responsible for the first shelling of the harbor area since Israel's 1982 summer invasion ofLebanon. 
One salvo of five shells and rock­ets slammed into the harbor area about a mile east ofthe U.S. Embassy on West Beirut's seafront. 
"Nothing fell close enough to alarm us," said embassy spokesman John Stewart. 
The artillery and rocket-propelled grenade attacks on the U.S. Marine contingent at Beirut's International Airport came before midnight and at daybreak, said a Marine spokesman, Maj. Dennis Brooks. 

A grenade and some small arms fire hit the southern perimeterofthe base, said Brooks. He said Marines returned the fire with small arms and machine guns. 
At daybreak, two artillery rounds more than 40 plays, both on and off Broadway, including Othello, Mas­ter Harold...and the boys, The Em­perorjones, OfMice and Men, The Iceman Cometh, Paul Robeson, Hamlet, MacBeth and King Lear. Jones also produced, directed, and starred in the Broadway play The 

Cbeny Orchard. 

Jones' television appearances in­clude playing the role of Alex Haley in Roots -The Second Generation. 
In 1970, jones won the Hol­lywood Foreign Press Association's Golden Globe Award as the year's "Most Promising New Actor" for his 
see JONES, page 5 
hit the airport runway. Brooks said the origin of those shells was not determined 
In southern Lebanon, 12 Israeli tanks crossed the A wall River, which has been the self-imposed front line for Israel. The tanks apparently were a warning to warring Druse and Christian militiamen in Lebanon's Chouf Mountains to stop fighting, Lebanese reporters in the area said 
Reporters said that quiet prevailed shortly after the Israeli in­tervention, which followed two days of artillery and rocket ex­changes that left eight combatants dead and five wounded. 
In Damascus, Syria, municipal leaders ofTripoli joined talks on the evacuation of warring Palestine Liberation Organization forces. No agreement on an evacuation timetable has been announced. 
ln the meantime campus Environ· mental Safety Specialist Mike McCauslin will be visiting each of the halls' food sales to recommend improvements to each manager, said King. 
The report on the inspections, conducted earlier this month, details health violations and recom­mendeds changes in the current food sales policy. The report was presented to Vice President for Stu­dent Affairs Father John Van Wolvlear's office earlier in the month. 
The report was based upon "spot inspections" of the food sales by McCauslin, Fire Captains Mark Esen­wein and Fred Schleiger, and Firefighter Wayne Bishop. The report lists several problems that were prevalent in the residence hall's food sales, including: 
• Unsanitary floors, walls and ceilings 
• Unsafe food sto:-age (on floor, 
Grace Hall president, at last night's Senate meeting. 
"I would urge the Senate to spend time on things we can really ac· complish," Bob Gleason, judicial chairman, said. 
Other members said they believed such large issues as the dis­closure of University investments need to be addressed, and long range ideas, such as installing more phones in the library pit, need to be put in motion as well. 
Mike Brennan, parliamentarian and a member of the Students for Responsible University Investments, said the committee wishes to "de­emphasize" disclosure of University investments and target the Univer­sity's holdings in defense it ndustries. 
Callaghan agreed, saying, "If we make a few gains in this (disclosing defense investments) ...then we can approach other issues." 
Callaghan said a referendum on the issue of disclosure is still a pos­sibility for next semester. Student Senator Dave McAvoy said the 

University receives grant from Illinois corporation 
Spedal to The Observer 

Notre Dame is one of 64 colleges and universities chosen to receive an unrestricted grant from Household International, a multi­industry corp0ration based in Illinois. 
The S20,000 grant is the maximum given to any one school. 
Donald Clark president and chiefexecutive officer of Household International, said, "We base this grant on the institution's interest in economic issue s. Household's program is designed to support in­stitutions which encourage discussion of the principles of a free­market economy consistent with a free society." 
The corporation has contributed almost S4 million to American colleges and universities since its program was established in 1956. This is the first year Notre Dame has received a grant. 
In addition to unrestricted operating grants, Household's Support of Higher Education program includes scholarship programs for children of employees, employee matching gifts, miscellaneous grants in support of education-related organizations, and research grants to departments specializing in finance, merchandising, engineering, transportation and insurance. 
Household International is a multi-industry, diversified corpora­tion with major businesses engaged in financial services, merchandising, manufacturing and transportation. 
under sewer lines. etc. ) 
• 
Infrequent disposal ofgarbage 

• 
Insect and rodent infestations 

• 
Excessive fire hazards 



Van Wolvlear told The Observer in an interview before Thanksgiving break that the inspections were con­ducted because fire hazards and un· sanitary conditions jeopardize the University's insurance policy. 
According to Indiana food laws. any and all operations that sell, serve, or distribute prepared foods must be licensed to do so. In any hall food sales-related problem, the llni· versity could be held liable. 
Mike Mann, manager of Flanner Hall's food sales, one of the largest on campus, said that not being able to sell prepared foods, such as pop­com or pizza, "will probably take away some ofour business and make some prices higher." 

Senate should research issues and 
bring them to the student body for a 
a referendum. Then, he said, the 
opinion of 7,000 people can be 
brought to the University ad· 
ministration. 
"If we make it a referendum, we 

may call attention to it." The student 
body does not know what student 
government is doing, McAvoy said, 
and believes that circulating the 
issue as a referendum would invoke 
students' reactions. 
Callaghan said another important issue the Senate hopes to address is "parietals, and more importantly, penalties for overnight parietals." Currently, the University policy for staying overnight in a dorm of the opposite sex is expulsion. 
"I think it (the punishment) is very drastic," Callaghan said, "and as students, we should address it." He thought the penalty at least should be lessened to moving off-campus. 
Letters from the administration to see SENATE, page 4 

Tuesday, November 29, 1983-page 2 
The Observer 
·-­





tin Brie£ · -· 
' 
Jury selection began yesterday in crown 
Point, Ind. in the murder trial of a Hammond woman and her 18­year-old son who are accused ofkilling a relative, dismembering him and burying the parts in garbage bags along Lake Michigan. On trial in Lake Superior Court for killing Paul Komyatti Sr., 62, in April are his widow, Rosemary Komyani, 57, and their son, Paul Jr. Prosecutors contend that the two defendants joined with Komyatti's daughter and her husband to kill the man for a S';O,OOO insurance policy. Court officials expect a two-week trial. The family had been poisoning Komyatti over a period oftime, prosecutors said. His stab­bing death came after an aborted attempt to inject air into his veins on April 19, they added. Komyatti's body was cut into pieces using a home carpenter's saw and other tools found in the family garage, investigators said. His body was placed in a half dozen garbage bags and discovered in April buried along the Lake Michigan shoreline near Hammond. William Vandiver, Komyani's son-in-law, is also chargt·d and faces tht: death penalty if convicted. His trial is set to begin in two weeks. -AP 
President Reagan proclaitned the next 10 
years the National Decade of Disabkd Persons today while criticiz­ing federal programs for the handicapped that he said too often fos­ter "unjust, unwanted and nonproductive" dependence. "Paternalism is the wrong answer," Reagan told a group cfmore than 200 handicapped people invited to the signing ceremony in the East Room of the White House. "Th~t. disabled want what all of us want: the opportunity to contribute to our communities, to use our creativity and to go as far as our God-given talents will take us." Rt·agan said voluntary efforts by the private sector help, "But too often, federal programs discourage full participation by society. Outmoded altitudes and practices that foster dependence are still with us. They are unjust, unwanted and nonproductive." "Our own efforts in the White House," Reagan said, "have helped generate a number of private projects involving transportation, elementary school tutoring. eye diagnosis and surgery." He noted the courage of those present at the ceremony, citing his own press secretary,James 
S. Brady, who was wounded in the March 30, 1981, shooting of Reagan; and jennifer Boatman ofIdleyld Park, Ore., a 13-year-old girl horn with a disabling spinal disorder that he said "didn't stop her from saving the life ofa 5-year-old boy." -AP 
Of Interest · 
The Clientele Will be a lillie different on Friday night at Senior Bar. It is University night. and administrators and faculty and staff membt·rs are invited to come to the bar from 9:30 
p.m. to 2 a.m. The hand Silver Fox will be playing a selection of 40s and 50s music. and any student who brings a faculty ar staff member will rt·ceive a coupon for one free drink with the purchase ofa drink. 
-The Obst•nlf.>r 
The national direCtOr of the NCAA Volunteers for Youth will present a slide show explaining the group's activities roday at 7:30p.m. in the Centerfor Social Concerns.-The Obsen1er 
Studentsinterested in summer internships in Wash­ington, D.C. should stop by the Student Government Offices on the second floor of J.a Fortune this week and pick up an information packt"t. The packet, compiled by the U.S. lkpartment of Education, contains important addresses and publications for internship ap­plications. Any questions siTould he referred to the Student Lobby Commission at 239-"66H. -The Obsen,er 

Weather -·_ 
I 
Cloudy windy and cold Tuesday with a 40 per­
cent chance of snow showers. Highs in the low 30s. Mostly cloudy and breezy Tuesday night. Lows in the low 20s. Cloudy breezy and continued cold Wednesday with a slight chance of light snow late. Highs around 30. -AP 


Family or cOmmunity? 
The Notre Dame family. 
The Notre Dame community. 
The terms "family" and "community" are used fre­quently -and usually interchangeably -in University rhetoric. 
Yet the words are far apart in terms ofdefinition. Can a family be a community? Is a community a family? Isn't the Notre Dame of 1983 best described as one or the other, and not both? 

Notre Dame was founded on the family structure. For decades the concept of the family formed the cor­nerstone of University life. Notre Dame students arrived here from similar backgrounds. They had similar goals and beliefs. They lived together, dined to­gether, played together, studied together and prayed together. They all existed under a single roof -like a family -until the building of Sorin, the first separate residence hall. 
Several thousand early students began their Notre Dame careers as children. The University actually was a family for those students who gained their prep school, undergraduate (and sometimes graduate) educa­tions here. 
But the University has changed markedly those days. 
The Notre Dame of •--··•q.,\1111......-. is not a family. 
But it is a community. 
Notre Dame is not lodged under one roof, unlike a family. It is a community, however, in that it consists of members living in the same general area engaged in common work and inter­
ests. 
The people of Notre Dame today are not of the same background, unlike a family. Notre Dame has striven for and gained diversity in its students and faculty. By giving up the image of the family, Notre Dame has become a university and a community. Much ofa fami­ly's success depends on its small size. A university -as the word implies -succeeds through constantly . striv­ing to expand and diversify. 
A family does not operate on business like a com­munity. Family members do not pay for what they gain by being associated with that organization. And parents can expect little reward beyond personal satisfaction for their efforts. 
A family depends on daily personal contact with a parent. The University claims no longer to operate un­der a system of parental authority. Without parental authority, there is no family. Students now have some limited say . in University policy through the college councils. In ridding itself ofIn loco parentis, a univer­

~The_Ohs.erYer_ 
Composition Editor ........ Thomas Robert 
Small Composition Assistants ..... Kim Tychsen and Cheryl Pilon T)'pesetters ............................ Traq and Ted Neu•s Editor .................. : ............... Vic Sciulli Copy Edltor....................... Mark Wor.cheh Sports Copy Edilr>r ..................... jeff Blumb Viewpoint Layout .............. Ken Cerabona ND Day Editor ................... Melinda Moore SMC Day Editor ............... Mary Ann Potter Ad Design ................................jeannie Euch Fbotograpber ............................ Stevejegkr Guest Appearance.< .... Char. this one's for 
you. Dc:nisc: and her kiwis, the whole G<:neral Board, I can't believe I ate the whole thing!, Promises, Promises, BDofPB, Scott and his 15 page paper. it's snowing! 
Quote ofthe Day Who In /be bell Is Bob the Wonder Dog.??? 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Fr~day ""d on home football Saturdays. excepl dur~ng exam and vacat1on per~ods. The Observer 1s published by Ihe students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys College. Subscr~ptrons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrlling The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Damv. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of The Auocl8ted PreA. All reproduction r~ghts are reserved. 
t t t t t t t t t 
t 
t 
t 


Margaret Fosmoe 
Managing Editor 
Inside Tuesday· 

sity changes from a family to a community. 
Unlike a community, a family is built on trust. Be­cause the needs of members of a community are so widely differing, one cannot always trust that other members of the community are working in his best in­terest. Sometimes it is hard to tell what is in the best interest ofthe community itself. 
This question of trust is the reason some University members are not eager to give up the concept of the family and join the community. A community is based 
on respect, not trust. When all members of Notre Dame recognize that the concept of family trust no longer ex­ists, community respect will take its place. 
Acommunity is a political organism. It has territory, a population and government composed ofall members of the society. While the Uni­versity community is not necessarily a democracy, it can be utilized as a transition from the family to the "real" world. 
Certainly this definition is more appropriate to modern Notre Dame than the wornout f.1mily analogy. 

As part ofthis community, the Notre Dame administration no longer has sole responsiblity for monitoring and protecting a student's intellectual, social, moral and spiritual growth. All members of the community -administration, faculty and students -provide guidance, but the student's pro<ection is ultimately his own. 
Notre Dame is no longer a family, but this change was desirable. 
Acommunity is in the best interests ofall members of the university society. A child remains a child until he is allowed to do something that merits respect and can prove that he deserves to be treated as an adult. 
Once it is accepted that there is a differt:nce between a family and a community -and that Notre Dame is the latter and no longer the former -the University will make vast strides. Once Notre Dame no longer needs the concept of the family to explain everything that goes on within her boundaries, the University will at 
last have reached maturity.  
DRAFT:  t t  
t  
MILITARY  t  
COUNSELING  t  
t  
t  
t  
t  
t  
t  
t  

Trained counselors are available to assist
t t
Notre Dame students in the discernment of
t t
their own consciences regarding whether or
t t
not they are morally willing to fight in a war
t t t t t 

For more information contact: 
t 

t Margaret Garvey t Office of Campus Ministry 
t 239·5242 
t 

t t t t t • t t t t t 


The Observer Tuesday, November 29, 1983 -page 3 

Space shuttle blasts into orbit; nine days of experiments ahead 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston Columbia blasted into orbit yester­day carrying six astronauts who quickly put the S 1 billion Spacelab to work, beginning one of the most ambitious scientific expeditions ever undertaken -nine days ofnon­stop experiments that will study the heavens, the Earth and man himself 
Astronauts Owen K Garriott and Byron Lichentenberg started tur­ning on equipment in the 23-foot­long Spacelab, in the cargo bay of Columbia, just three hours after they and four crewmates were launched from the Kennedy Space Center. 
The launch was precisely on time, 11 a.m. EST, despite a looming weather front that threatened a two­day delay. Columbia carried into space the largest crew ever and was the first U.S. launch to include a non­American, West German Ulf Mer­bold. 
Mission commander John Young, 

a 53-year-old veteran making his 
record sixth flight, sounded like a 
rookie as Columbia orbited 1 55 
miles above the Earth. 
"It is so neat up here," he said. "It 

is really something." Earlier he 
noted: "Things don't change any." 
"It's a beautiful flying machine," 

radioed pilot Brewster H. Shaw Jr., 
38, who was making his first flight. 
"It's really some ride. It's the smoot­
hest way to go you ever saw." 
The crew had a bit of trouble 

opening the hatch that covers the 
tunnel from Columbia's cabin to 
Spacelab. NASA beamed down TV 
pictures that showed the astronauts 
tugging and yanking to no avail for 
several minutes, until finally they 
freed a recalcitrant latch and the 
hatch swung free. 
Then Garriott, Lichtenberg and Merbold floated through the 19-foot tunnel and made a joint entry into Spacelab, smiling broadly and shaking hands. They turned on the lights and quickly set to work activating the experiments. Young also paid a brief visit before return­ing to the cabin. 
Young and Shaw will fly Colum­
bia, performing some 192 
manuevers, while Garriott, 53, Lich­
tenberg, 35, Merbold, 42. and 
Robert A. R. Parker, 46, operate 
more than 70 experiments designed 
by scientists from 14 countries. 
Powerful telescopes and sensors 
will probe the life and death of dis­
tant stars and gauge the energy 
exploding from the Earth's own star, 
the sun. 
Other sensors and cameras will 
focus on the Earth. mapping the land 
surface and electronically sniffing 
the planet's atmosphere and gauging 
its magnetic fields. 
A keen-eyed German camera, 
capable of capturing views with a 
resolution of 32 feet, will take 
pictures not before possible, while a 
radar sensor will penetrate clouds to 
probe the surface. 
Sixteen experiments will study how life forms from Earth react to the weightless environment of space. Included are investigations into the space sickness phenomena that has affected nearly halfofthe 26 shuttle astronauts. The tests include the response of human blood cells and of the immune system to zero gravity. The astronauts will take and analyze blood samples throughout the mission. 
There also will be studies on the growth in space of sunflower see­dlings, a fungus and four types of microbes. 

Student Body President Brian Callaghan ad­meeting. See Liz Flor's story on page 1 for more dresses the rest ofthe StudentSenate at last night's details. 
Death toll climbs to 56 in record blizzard; airports, highways closed 
Associated Press move," said a dispatcher for the 
Nebraska State Patrol. 

A record November blizzard The wind made it feel like 40 trapped thousands of travelers and degrees below zero in some areas brought Midwestern cities to a and residents were 'Yarned to stay 
standstill with head-high drifts yes­home. Houses went dark and cold as terday while the death toll climbed power lines snapped under the to 56 from back-to-hack weight ofice. 
snowstorms. Schools, businesses and govern­
The storm closed major highways ment offices closed in many cities and key airports in seven states as such as Minneapolis, Omaha, Neb.. heavy snow fell from Oklal10ma and and Sioux Falls, S.D. Colorado to upper Michigan. Snow Across the hardest hit states of accumulations of 2 feet or more in Colorado, Nebraska, Iowa, South 
some areas were whipped into 9-Dakoa, and Minnesota, motorists by foot drifts by 50-mph winds. the hundreds sought shelter in Na­"There just isn't anything going tional Guard armories, churches and 
on out there because you plain can't truck stops. 

AN TOSTAL 
EXECUTIVE STAFF POSITIONS BEING FILLED 
--details and applications available at Student Union. 
--application deadline Friday, December 2. 
THERE WILL BE A NEW METHOD FOR MAKING LONG DISTANCE CALLS 
1~··· "THE NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT TELEPHONE NETWORK"  
• DISCOUNT RATES • NO FEE OR MINIMUM  Early Registration : Dec 5 to Dec 9 lower level of LaFortune  

Student Center FURTHER INFORMATION WILL BE MAILED TO YOU!! 
HIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIH..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIII....III...IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIHeHHIIH........IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII....HI. 

Lottery for Morris Inn rooms for February 17-19 Junior Parents' Weekend will be on Wednesday, Nov. 30 LaFortune Rathskeller, 7:30pm 
Nothing was moving in many towns except snowmobiles, some used to fetch food for the stranded. 
Snowplows were useless in the 

blowing snow, but a physician rode 
one to deliver a baby boy at a home 
in Limon, Colo., a town on Interstate 
70 about halfway between Denver 
and the Kansas state line where an 
estimated 2.000 motorists were 
marooned. 
About 3,000 people spent the night at Stapleton International Air­port in Denver, where 22 inches of snow fell, but the airport began operating at 50 percent capacity by yestersday morning. 
It was the second storm to sweep across the Rockies into the Great Lakes area in a week. Forecasters said a third -but smaller -blow was expected in the mountains by today, bringing heavy snow to parts ofUtah and temperatures of 10 to 1 5 degrees below zero in Colorado. 
But Denver forecaster Ronn Ir­

ving said, "It really does not have the 
power or punch this past one did." 
In the past year, Denver has received 
100 inches ofsnow, including three 

storms of 18 inches or more. 
Major highways across Colorado, 

Wyoming, Kansas, Nebraska, South 
Dakota, Minnesota and Iowa were 
closed early yesterday. Drifts were 
up to 9 feet high in southwestern 
Nebraska, 8 feet and western Kansas 
and about 4 feet near the Twin Cities 
of Minneapolis and St. Paul. 
By late morning, however. snowplows had opened some of the highways, although the blowing snow still made driving hazardous. One of the ro::tds to open was Inter­state 80 which had been closed all the way across Nebraska. 
In southeast South Dakota, 

snowplows rescued about 1 50 
people from deep drifts on Inter­
state 29 and took them to the Super 
8 Motel in Vermillion, where about 
50 people spent the night in a base­

ment meeting room because the 
guest rooms were filled. 
"We've got a baby that hasn't eaten since last night," said Audrey Hochhalter, who owns the motel with her husband, Derry. "We're trying to get a snowmobile to get some food." 
Ve rmillion banned all travel ex­

cept by snowmobile. Union County 
Sheriff Bud Rasmussen said 35 cars 
had been towed into town from 
nearby highways, but many 
remained stuck in deep drifts. 
In Sioux Falls, S.D., hundreds of people were stranded at truck stops and motels on the north side of the city near Interstates 29 and 90. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 29, 1983 -page 4 





Striking bus drivers reject proposal 
Associated Press the vote, expressed optimism that a 9.8 percent salary cut. Greyhound talks would resume soon. said it needed the pay cuts to remain But when asked the company's competitive with deregulated 
PHOENIX, Ariz. Striking reaction, he said, "They play good airlines and other bus Jines. 
Greyhound bus drivers and other poker." Rosenblum said the company's workers resoundingly rejected a Greyhound Unes planned no argument that many of the drivers company proposal to reduce wages comment until today. when John would be willing to come back had 
by 7.8 percent, with 96 percent Teets, chairman of the parent been rebuffed by the voting. voting against the contract offer, Greyhound Corp., holds a news con­"They turned down the first con­union officials said yesterday. ference in Phoenix to "announce tract offer by a margin of 98.3 per· 
But Harry Rosenblum, acting important plans regarding cent and the 96 percent vote on this president ofthe Amalgamated Coun­Greyhound Lines." offer doesn't show that much ero­cil of Greyhound Local Unions, said Dorothy l.orant, Greyhound's sion," said Rosenblum. he did not think "we'd be that far vice president for public relations, Asked about the company's state· 
from a settkmcnt" if the company said Teets would discuss the union's ment that abour J,'iOO union mem· and union resolved certain other election results and other matters. bers had crossed picket lines·-to issues in the three·year contract, She declined to elaborate. return to work, Rosenblum said, "I such a5 a proposed reduction in pen­The Amalgamated Transit Union, don't have any count on the scab· sion benefits. which repr~sents 12,700 bing. I don't know how many have, Rosenblum, who told the com­Greyhound workers, struck Nov. 2 but I know that a few who did have 
pany's chief negotiator the results of over a proposed contract calling for recrossed" to rejoin the strikers. 

Bill upsets U .S.-China relations 
Associated Press 
week, warning of "grave conse­response to the protests, Reagan's quences" for relations with the 
visit might be canceled, as would 
PEKlNG -Two measures in the United States. 
Prime Minister Zhao Ziyang's

U.S. Congress that support Taiwan 
The first time U.S. Ambassador Ar· planned trip to the United States in have disturbed Chinese-U.S. rela· thur W. Hummel was summoned by January.
tions and have cast some doubt on 
Zhu Qichen, assistant Chinese 
At a banquet for visiting Prime President Reagan's plans to visit foreign minister, was Nov. I 8. The 
Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau ofChina in April. 

Senate Foreign Relations Committee Canada last night, Zhao indicated he Reagan is expected to sign an ap­had passed a resolution saying 
planned to make at least the Canada propnauons bill, passed by Taiwan's future should be settled 
leg ofhis North American trip.

Congress in mid-November, which 
"peac·efully, free ofcoercion and in a When the vice-foreign minister,
backs Communist China's applica­
manner acceptable to the people on Qian Qichen, who is one step higher
tion to join the Asian Development Taiwan." 
than Zhu, was asked how China

Hall decorating Bank. But the bill also says that 
Peking, which claims Taiwan as would react if Reagan signed the ap­
Taiwan -which still claims to be
Senior Cathy Trusela shows her Christmas one of its 22 provinces, said both propriations bill, he replied, "You'll 
the legitimate government of all votes betrayed a lingering "two­
spirit as she decorates her door i11 Farley Hall. just have to wait and see." 
China -should remain a full mem­
cvntinuedfrom page I 

n·ctors earlier this year informed them that failurt· to report student infringement of parietal ruks would result in loss of their jobs. In the last acadt·mk year, five to six students were t·xpellcd for parktals, Callag· han said. S<.·nate members agn:ed that some: rectors, as well as some rt·sidcnt assistants, still do not ad· hcrc to the ruk of turning a student over to the Dean of Students, but t take each situation under considera­tion individually. "Although there is inconsistcncy, there always will be:. If thcy lighten up a hit, thae would be more consistcncy," Callaghan said. In other news, Callaghan an· nounccd th;u tht· structure of the LaFortune Student Center will probably change this summer. Other businesses su<.·h as University Hairstylists and the travcl a.g<.·ncy will move into the building. The campus "will be rid of the Nazz, as such, and incorporate it with Chautauqua." Students who now study in the basement of Lafortune 
GET YOUR CAREER OFF 
TO A FLYING START. 
If you've ever wanted to be at the controls of a piece of machinery that can hover over a dime, rise straight up. do fantastic things with power and air and pitch and aerodynamics, you belong at the controls of an Army helicopter. 
The Army has openings now in its Warrant Officer Flight Training program. To qualify, you must have a high school diploma, and we prefer 2 years of college. 
Prior to entering helicopter flight training, you must successfully complete basic training and pre. flight training. 
When you've completed the course successfully, you'll be wearing the 
w1ngs of an Army Warrant Officer. 
For more information, call the Army Recruiter near you. 
SGT Jones 234·4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
Chinas" policy in Washington and 
The last president to visit China

ber ofthe bank. 
infringed on China's int ernal affairs. 
was Gerald Ford in April 1976.
The vote prompted a formal 

Hu Yaobang, secretary-general of 
Richard Nixon broke the icc in U.S.­

protest from the Chinese govern­the Chinese Communist Party, said 
China relations with his February

• • • Senate 
ment on Nov. 25, the second in a 
that without an acceptable U.S. 
1972 trip. 

can study in the ballroom upstairs, 
Callaghan said, or perhaps the •Old fashioned Home Cooked 
library can remain open 24 hours. 
Further suggested moves include Family Style Dinners 
the yearbook from the fourth floor •Also Steaks, Prime Rib, and Seafoods 
to the basement, the radio station 
•Largest salad bar in town
from O'Shaughnessy to Lafortune and even individual offices for •75 item Saturday brunch (served 8:00am.2:oopm) 
•Reservations 
accepted for large or small groups 

•15 
minutes from Notre Dame 

•850 
seats, lots of food and good service 



From Noire Dame, soulh on Eddy Slreel (aboul 10 minules) to Jefferson, Iurn lefl (Easl) 5 minutes. Look for Ihe caslle! 

.M.-9 P.M. • Saturday 8 A.M.-9 P.M. Closed Sundays-Except Easter, Mother's Day & Father's Da) 1202 E. Jefferson Blvd. • Mishawaka. Indiana 155·8040 
ADMIRAL BENBOW INNS OF MEMPHIS 
Two great locations Midtown and East. Both locations minutes away from Liberty Bowl. We offer a total of 300 Deluxe Rooms, good food and mostf)f all, hospitality. 
SPECIAL RATES: Single: 27 plus tax Double: 29 plus .tax $4.00 each add. person 
Inn 
Midtown Location: 901-725·0630 
··' 

East Location: 901·682-4601 Transportation available to and from Liberty Bowl. 


~~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, November 29, 1983 -page 5 

Group discusses experiences of fall trip to Appalachians 
By RICHARD INGRASSIA 
News Staff 
After seeing firsthand the poverty of the southern Appalachian area, a group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, Holy Cross priests and hall rectors met recently at the Center for Social Concerns to dis­cuss what they experienced during their week-long expedition to the area during Fall Break. 
The students agreed the principal value of the trip came from the per­sonal interaction with the mountain people themselves. 
"The number of distractions at Notre Dame sometimes leads you to ignore the more important things that people can share," said John Gray, a junior from Washington. 
The social analysis, direct and in­direct, is the main reason why the program should continue, said Moira Baker, Lewis Hall rector, who has been associated with the project for four years. 
In "living the value system the others experience," Baker said, the students gained a rare variety of education in humanity. 
Other students who participated 
in the trip agreed that the interac­

tion helped to eliminate many ofthe 
stereotypes held against the people 
of the deep South. 
The group, which was divided in­to three smaller groups, visited dif­ferent towns in the Tennessee-Kentucky region of the Appalachian Mountains. 
Brother Frank Rotsaert, rector of Holy· Cross Hall, and the assistant rector of Pasquerilla East took ten students to Harriman, Tennes,see. Fifteen students accompanied Gerry Kleba and Jim Greene of CILA, which helped sponsor the trip, to Vanceburg, Kentucky. Baker also or­ganized an excursion to the town of Milton, Kentucky. 
The students all contributed a minimum fee to cover various ex­penses, and each group's accom­modations were provided by the ministry in the area: Brother Donald Macintyre and three other Holy Cross brothers at the parish CCD building in Harriman, another group at the Glenmary Home Mission Farm in Vanceburg and a third at a branch of the Christian Appalachian Project in Milton. 
The participants prepared them­selves for the trip by reading and attending an orientation session. But the unique type of enjoyment and personal satisfaction that followed the close interaction with the moun­tain people could not have been an­ticipated, believed Mary Miltenberger from McCandless Hall. 
The group's primary objective was physical and social work: Projects included rebuilding a home for handicapped adults, helping with the construction and development of a new schoolhouse and painting the house ofa poor, elderly woman. 
Greene has proposed that an in­dependant student organization, similar to one at Harvard, be formed to organize such cultural relocation and experimentation. 




Sale of helicopter parts delayed 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Tne Reagan-ad­ministration, upset over a resur­gence of human rights violations in Guatemala, is delaying the sale of helicopter parts to the Central American nation's rightist military government, officials say. 
State Department officials, who spoke on the condition they not be identified, said the delay in the sale reflects U.S. concern over the up­turn in political violence -includ­ing attacks against employees of U.S.-funded educational programs. 
The officials said an earlier ap­proval for the sale is not formally un­der review, but some senior officials want it withdrawn and, in the meantime, final permission for a 112 million purchase ofmilitary helicop­ter parts is being held up to signal 
U.S. displeasure. 
The latest chill in U.S.-Guatemalan relations also complicates President Reagan's strategy of drawing Guatemala more directly into regional efforts to reduce leftist in­fluences in Central America. Before adjourning 10 days ago, Congress barred direct military and economic aid to Guatemala and 51 congress­men urged cancellation of the helicopter parts sale. 
The delay on the helicopter parts 
sale also coincides with the return to 
the United States of Ambassador 
Frederic Chapin for the Thanksgiv­
ing and Christmas holidays -an ab­
sence which, though officially 
characterized as "routine," is 
regarded as another sign of 
American displeasure. 
Last January, the Reagan ad­
ministration ended a five-year em­
bargo on military assistance to 
ZAHM HALL THANKS for "the best party on campus" to: Ch01rmen Rob !-'lynn & r~E;IIy Brotr1ers .Tom Arndorfer llliiMuller Mork Polosk: ferry I JlerCier Sect1on leodero'
TIIT1 Scr1worlz l.J(..'I I f IP'. k Bob §poOQil"IOre tv'11ke Sull1vrJn 

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES!! 
$20,000 Scholarships: AValuable Scholarship.AValuable Challenge. 
The two-year NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarsbp that's worth as much as $20,000 in tuition. And it offers you the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During college, the Navy p'lys tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees, and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you are commissioned a Navy officer. 
THE NROTC COUIGE PROGRAM. 
$2,000 EXPENSE MONEYAND 

ANAVY OFFICER COMMISSION. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two lears of expense money that's worth up to $2,000, plus the challenge o becoming a Navy Officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. 
If you have a C+ GPA or better, call us NOW as scholarship opportunities have never been better. Ask for LCDR Norrbom at 239-7274 or 239-6442, or stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus. 
Guatemala, approving the sale of S6 million in helicopter parts and citing "significant steps" by then-President Efrain Rios Montt to improve human rights. 
But the Guatemalans said then they lacked the money to buy the parts and the deal did not go through. In February, an AID linguist and three companions were seized by soldiers and killed. That incident prompted a brief recall of Chapin to Washington. 
On Aug. 8, Rios Montt was ousted by a coup led by his defense minis­ter, Gen. Oscar Humberto Mejia Victores. 
Although having supported Rios Montt, the Reagan administration praised the new government, which began working with Honduras, El Salvador and Panama to revive the Central American Defense Council, known by its Spanish acronym CON­DECA, to coun.ter leftist Nicaragua. 
But on Oct. 18, another AID­sponsored linguist disappeared. His body along with those ofa coworker and her daughter were reported by authorities to have been found burned in a car crash that foreign diplomats considered highly suspi­cious. 
Another linguist has also disap­peared after reportedly being pulled from his home by seven armed men. 
Amid these events, U.S. officials said the Guatemalans indicated they were prepared to move ahead with the purchase of S2 million in helicopter parts. But one official said the Guatemalans were told "don't hold your breath" on the sale during a meeting in Guatemala with Fred C. Ikle, under secretary of defense, and Abrams early this month. 
• • • Jones 

continuedfrom page I 
role in The Great White Hope. The same role earned him an Oscar nomination for "Best Performance by an Actor." 
Jones twice has won the "Obie" 

award. In 1962 he was named "Best 
Actor in the Off-Broadway Theatre" 
for his performance in Clandestine 
on the Morning Line in 1962 and in 
1965 won the same award for his 

performances inBaal and Othello. 
Tonight's performance byJones is 

open to the public free ofcharge and 
is sponsored by the College of Arts 
and Letters, the Student Union, the 
I.C.H., the Black Cultural Arts Coun­cil, the Black Studies Program and The Office of Minority Student Af­fairs. 
TheKing Lear readings are part of three days of events examining the play. Last night, the Peter Brook film version of the play was shown, and the Russian version of King Lear, directed by Gregori Kozinstev, will be shown tomorrow night at 7 and 
9:20 in the Engineering Auditorium. 



VieWP-~O_i_D_t________
Tu_esda_y,N_o_vem_be_r-29-,I9-s3_--pag-e6 
The anguish of missile politics 
In the shadow the nuclear missiles cast, the focus of (lreat Power politics has become missile politics. It is an anguished battle at best, whoever claims the victory in any phase of it. But in the sharpest phase of the battle 
Max Lerner 
The Lerner Column 
thus far -starting in 1979 wuh the NATO decision to deploy new missiles and ending with the German vote in Bundestag -the vic­tory can be claimed by the West. 
In his duel with Yuri Andropov, Ronald Reagan ha'i luckily been bolstered by three formidables West European allies -Helmut Kohl, Margaret Thatcher and Francois Miller­rand. Kohl's and Thatcher's sturdiness was ex­pected but Mitterrand, who could have sat this one out, was an extra bonus. 
In the struggle inside Europe's Socialist partie-;, the influence ofWilly Brandt on the Soci.U Democrats has prevailed, with his silly tacric of competing for German youth with the Creens by swallowing their tar-out doctrines. 
But in France under Mitterrand -and in Italy under Bettino Craxi -the Socialists have retained their sense of reality, putting freedom ahead of class struggle. "The East," says Mitterrand, "has developed missiles and the West has developed passifists." It is a devastating summary which took courage. 
Mitterrand, Kohl, Thatcher, Craxi and Reagan have all been helped by Yuri Andropov's maladroit handling of missile politics. Given his pass to power Andcopov was played up as a sophisticated tactician_ But he has proved the wrong man at the wrong time for Soviet Policy. 
He is the exact opposite of Nikita Khrushchev, who was at his best in open dramatic moves, while Andropov is at his best in covert operations. But missile politics, bid­ding for world opinion have to be largely in the open. 
Andropov blundered in his historic gamble on the German Social Democrats and the "peace" marchers. At the same time, he in­volved himself in destabilizing global moves, especially in the Middle East, which raised the specter ofterror. Combined with his tactics of nuclear intimidation, this didn't make his various missile proposals very credible. 
Nor did the missile politics ofthe American media do much to hdp him. ABC's "The Day After" scared many Americans, but Reagan's popular acceptance was greater after the film than before. Besides, it omitted Western Europe completely. 
In the end, Andcopov had nothing left to do except an indecisive walkout ofhis delegate at Geneva, and a threat to deploy more missiles against Europe in his satellite countries and against America on the oceans -which makes the Soviet image more menacing, not less. 

Meanwhile, a prime event has taken place in France, where the Catholic Bi'>hops have signed a pastoral document which is a direct answer to the letter ofthe American Bishops. 
It speaks of "the domineering and ag· gressive character of Marxism-leninism, which holds that everything, even a nation's hopes for peace must be used as a tool for world conquest." And it puts the central moral question -"does a country threatened in its existence, its liberty or its identity, have a moral right to meet the threat with an ef· fective counterthreat, even ifit is nuclear?" ­and answers it with a resounding "Yes," sup­ported by a vote of93-2 among the Bishops. 
In the anguisht."d battle of missile politics, this has not been a good time for the Soviets. Copyrigllt 1913, Los Anades Times Syndicate 

There's no business like bowl business 
While one can sympathize with our stu­dents who participate in varsity football and thus thirst for a post-seao;<m (bowl) encoun­ter, the recent declaration or should one say edict, w ich a'iSigm; uur football team the 
1ames Carberry 
~---­
Guest Columnist 

tao;k of playing in the Liberty Bowl demands examination. Examination in the light of ex­plkilly stated norms set forth by the Faculty Board in Control ofAthletics some moons ago when, on that historic occasion, we abandoned a 4'5-yt·ac-old policy against post­scao;<m encounters. 
As a member of the Faculty Board at that time, I can attest to the fact that we then per­suaded ourselves, and so declared, that Notre Dame would engage in post-season competi­tion under three clearly enunciated condi­tions: 

(I) Only "major" Bowls would be considered, ifand only if: 
( 
2) Our appearance would promise the possibility of our achieving or approaching top national ranking; 

( 
3) In the event, all profits so secured would be utilized excusively for non-athletic scholarships. 



Item ( 3) was my suggestion. In its wake, Father Hesburgh quite rightly modified my qualification to read "non-athletic scholar­ships for minorities." 
Thus did we move into that arena, previous­ly described by Father Hesburgh as a "circus," with clean and noble instinct. 

In general both press and public applauded our nobly inspired change of policy in re: post-season encounters. After all, what other school had laid down such severe conditions ( I and 2 above) for so lofty a purpose ( 3 above)? 
So now a well meaning, talented array of football players with less than an awesome record of success is dispatched to a post­season "circus." Surely not to compete for na· tional honors! Surely not at a "major" bowl! To what end? To enhance recruiting, we ace led to believe. Hah! In my 22 years at this in­stitution I've never been witness to more foot­ball talent than that which now gract.-s our campus -even excluding Dillon Hall's scholars. 
But some potential recruits will only select ND if we ace bowl-bound on a routine basis, we ace told! To hell with such recruits, say I. 
let such fools flock to Oklahoma or 
Nebraska They'll get little else at such 
academic slums than a bowl appearance. 
Which brings us to the point -a sad one. 
We, at Notre Dame, ace now about to lose our 
innocence in inter-collegiate football. We've entered the bordello. Patently, we'll now be assigned to play anyone, anywhere, in any money-making post-sea">On "circus." 
Yet, one must suppose that some benefits might emerge from such otherwise meaning­less, indeed demeaning, post-season circuses: 
Consider the grand consequences which might ensue with our Liberty Bowl contest with Boston College: 
a) The Jesuits might return to the Church. 
h) 
A guitaced Liturgy might he featured at halftime. 

c) 
The American Bishops might call for a freeze on blocking and tackling. 


Thus all is not lost save what was once our unique integrity in intercollegiate football. James Cacbacry 
Dr. james]. Carberry, a professor ofcbemi· cal engineering at Notre Dame, is a former member of tbe Faculty Board. 

Spirit vs. practice 
Oear Editor: 
In the November 17 Obsen~er, Gerry Foley accuses Kairis and Bouley of "wallowing in ... ignoranc•: and over-generalizations" more specifically, of professing to sec the fun­damental differences between the spirit and prat·tice ofSoviet policy and that ofthe United States. Let tht· wise: and learned Mr. Foley pon­der a few questions. 
I) In the la'it days of World Wac II did mil­lions of central European soldiers and civilians flee eao;tward to c:scapc: the barbarous British and American armies? 
2) Was the: Berlin Wall erectt·d to prevent millions of west (jt·rmans from tleeing to the (jerman lkmocratic Republic in the ca'it? 
3) When Fidel Ca'itro seized power in Cuba did thousands ofAmericans ofCuban descent sell or abandon their possessions, rush to Miami, and board anything that floated in their anxiety to get back to Cuba? 
4) In Vietnam did millions of the unfor­tunate subjects of the corrupt, cryptofascist, CIA-hacked southern despotism tlee northward to enjoy a more rewarding life un­

.. p. 0. Box Q 

der the mild and beneficent Ho Chi Minh regime, so much admired by those brilliant stateswomen Shirley Macl.aine and Jane Fonda 
'5) Did tens ofthousands of"boat people" in southeast Asia die fleeing oppressive western­dominated regimes there for sanctuary in Communist Vktnam and China? 
Those unlucky people in the world who have firsthand experience ofcommunist rule, or the immmediate threat of it, know the dif­ference between the spirit and implementa· tion of American policy and that of Marxist states, even if Mr. Foley does not. 
Bernard Norling 

Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the dai~J' constraints of the page. They must bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author(initials and pseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Letters must be u•e/1-written and ~yped. Material shorter than 250 u•ords will receir•e priori~)'. All letters are subject to 
editing ami become the property of The Ob­server. 
PlrQ ~R \N~E 
0 

The Obset:ver_  EditorialBoard  DepartmentManagers  
Editor-in-Chief. .............................. Da,·id Dziedzic  
1'. 0. Hox(j.Notn:/Jame.f.Y·i6556  (.!19)239-5303  Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager..  .............Christopher Owen  
Tbc• 0/Jsert•er i~ tht· imk-pt·mknt m-,, ~p<i(XT puhli~hnl hv tht· students of the l·m·  Ewcutir•e Edit()r ................................. l'aul Mc(;inn  Omtn)/ler ...............................................Alex Szilva'i  
n·rsity of Notre Dame du l.ac .md Saint 1\lary·~ College. It dnes not nt·t-essarily retlect  .\'eu·s Edit()r ................................. B(>h \'onderheidt·  A.dr·ertising Jfanager .........................Jeanit· Pook  
tht· polkies of tlw administration of l"itht-r institution. The nt·ws is re;)()rtnl as ac·  1\'eu'S Editor....................................Mark Worscheh  Cinulation.Wanager.........................Mark Miottt>  
t·uratdy ami a~ objt-ctivdy as po~~ihk. l ·nsigned editoriah represent tlu· opinon of a  Saint Jlary•s Editor..................Anne Monastyrski  .\)•stems Jtanager ...........................Kevin Williams  
majority ofthe Editorial Bo;~rd. <:ommt·ntaries, letters. and the lnsidt• Column present  .\jmrts Editor .................................Michael Sullivan  
the vkws.ofthcir ;~uthors. <:olumn span· i~ a\·ail;~hk to ;~II mt·mh;:rs oftht· communi:y,  Features Edit()r ............................... Sarah llamilton  
<~nd the free exprt·ssion ofvarying opinions on campu~. through ktters. is t·ncouraged.  Photo Editor................................ .........S<:ott Bower  

Founded Novewber 3, 1966 
l t 
----~ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



Sports Briefs 
The Off--Campus hockey team will be hold­
ing an organizational meeting Thursday at 8 p.m. in LaFortune. ­
The Obseroer 
Sign-upsfor the Insilco Squashtournament 
continue this week in the ACC. The Dec. 2-4 tournament features '8', 
'C', and 'D' divisions. It is open to students and faculty. Winners of 
this tournament advance to the regionals held in Chicago injanuary. 
For more information, call Sean Richardson at 277-1405.-The Ob­
seroer 
A college hoops preview will be the subject 
tonight on Speaking of Sports at 10 p.m. on WSND-AM 64. It will also be trivia night with prizes. Call in at 239-6400 or 239-7425.­
The Obseroer 
Anyone interested in riding lessons should 
contact Margaret Hank at 8152 or Lorene Lungan at 1674. -The Obseroer 
Bookstore Basketball is looking for a commis­
sioner for this spring's tournament. Ifyou are a sophomore and are interested in running the prestigious tournament, pick up a applica­tion at the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications for all other An Tostal commissioners are also available. All applications should be picked up by this Thursday. 
-The Obseroc'r 
The NotreDameRowingClubhas a meeting 
tomorrow, November 30, at 7 p.m.. in LaFortune's Little Theatre. All 
club members are required to attend this final meeting ofthe semes­
ter. -The Obseroer 
The Notre DameWeightlifting Clubwill hold a bench press competition in the Rockne weight room on Satur­day, December 3 at 1 p.m. All those interested should sign up in the Rockne weight room or call 8762. All students, male or female, are eligible. This includes varsity athletes. The entrance fee is five dol­lars for those who are not members ofthe weightlifting club. -The Obseroer 


Classifieds 
• • • Victims 
continuedfrompage 12 
they (Notre Dame) found out we were weak inside, it made it very dif­ficult to play against them." 
Dolan, a 6-8 native of Point Pleasant, N.J., led Notre Dame in both scoring and rebounding with figures of 19 and 12, respectively. The Irish also received muscle from Tim Kempton, who tallied 13 points and 1 0 boards. 
"I was disappointed that Sluby was one-for-seven and Kempton was two-for-nine in the second half;" added Phelps. 
"But credit Marist. They played hard and I just told our players(after the game) that's what it is to be Notre Dame." 
The Red Foxes were paced by Eg­gink's 18 points and Mark Shamlcy's 12. 
Eggink, a 6-5 junior forward, had 
red-shined last season when he 
needed surgery to repair a herniated 
disc he suffered in a pick-up game. 
"He's a great streak shooter," said 
Petro. 
Eggink made 8 of 11 field goal at­tempts including a sleek six-of-six in the second half 
"Marist reminds me of North Carolina State," said Phelps. "It was good experience to go against these guards. 
"The last six weeks were spent getting ready for Indiana and UCLA," continued Phelps. "I'm just happy we didn't pull a Chaminade." 
Tuesday, November 29, 1983 -page 7 
Men's Box Scores 
November25's Results November 26's Results St. Joseph's 56, Notre Dame 104 Notre Dame 75, Marist 68 
St. Joseph's (56) Marist (68) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p M FG-A FT-A R F p Wingard, Eggink, Steve 26 8-11 2-2 2 2 18 Mark 28 4-11 4-4 3 1 12 Taylor, Ted 32 4-5 0-3 11 4 8 Martin, Greg 31 5-17 0-0 7 3 1 0 Donovan, Joines. Mark 22 1-6 0-0 4 4 2 John 25 2-11 0-0 6 3 4 Moody, Ma~ 23 0-6 0-0 0 0 0 Meekins, Tom 23 3-9 2-2 1 3 8 Weber, Man 26 2-2 2-4 3 2 6 Johnson, Hibbard, Bruce 26 1-3 1-3 1 2 3 
Bruce 2 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 Allen, George 11 1-3 1-2 0 2 3 Foley, Kurt 3 0-2 0-0 0 0 0 Johnson, Auzevich, Joe 2 0-0 3-4 1 0 3 Mark 14 2-4 2-2 0 
6 Stitz, John 22 3-8 2-4 0 1 8 Wynn, Connor, Brad 11 1-5 0-0 2 1 2 Charles 6 0-0 2-2 0 2 Kappers, Stan 16 3-4 3-3 3 4 9 Shamley, Surface, Joe 3 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 Mark 18 5-11 2-3 6 3 12 Howard, Bar-Padilla, Gil 5 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 ry 2 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 Cohen, Adam 14 1-1 2-4 2 2 4 Battle, Keith 90-52-2112 3 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 
200 ~ 16-21 26 17 56 203 27-59 14-23 30 23 68 FG Pet. -.294. FT Pet. -.762. Team rebounds -5. Turnovers -31. Assists -8 
FG Pet. -.458. FT Pet. -.609. Team (Weber, 3). Technicals-None. 
rebounds -4. Turnovers -17. Assists -12 (Meekins and Johnson, 4). Technicals-None. 
NotreD~ne(104) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Sluby, Tom 15 8-10 1-2 4 1 17 Dolan, Jim 16 2-5 4-6 3 2 8 Notre Dame (75) Kempton, Tim 16 3-4 0-0 6 2 6 M FG-A FT-A A F p Price, Joseph 20 7-9 1-2 1 2 15 Sluby, Tom 33 5-14 2-5 4 1 12 Buchanan, Dolan, Jim 30 7-14 5-7 12 3 19 Joe 17 2-3 0-0 2 1 4 Kempton. Tim 31 6-15 1-2 10 2 13 Hicks, Scott 17 6-11 4-6 4 1 16 Price, Joseph 22 3-8 4-4 6 3 10 Spencer. Bar­Buchanan. ry 10 0-2 2-4 3 2 2 Joe 21 0-3 0-1 3 1 0 Newell. Hicks, Scott 202-44-4318 Casey 5 1-7 0-0 1 0 2 Royal, Donald 8 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 Duff, Dan 23 1-1 1-2 3 1 3 Duff, Dan 19 0-1 3-4 0 2 3 Bowen, John 22 7-10 0-0 10 1 14 Bowen, John 2 0-0 0-0030 Barlow, Ken 25 4-8 2-2 9 4 10 Rucker, Cecil 3 0-1 2-3 1 0 2 
Royal, Donald 14 2-3 3-4 3 2 7 Barlow, Ken 11 3-4 0-0 4 3 6 200 43-73 18-28 49 19104 200 27-65 21-72 40 38 75 FG Pet. -.589. FT Pet. -.643. Team FG Pet. -.415. FT Pet. -.292. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -25. Assists -18 rebounds -3. Turnovers -17. Assists -13 (Buchanan, 9). Technicals-None. (Duff, 4). Technicals-None. Halftime-Notre Dame 50, St. Joseph's 19. Halftime-Notre Dame 47, Maris! 33. Offi­Officials -Don Edwards, Bo Paprocki, Dan cials -Art Willard, Rick Hartzell, Terry Chrisman (all Big Ten). A -9,143. Maloney (all Big Ten). A-8,031. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor ofHaggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 
p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next day clas· sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail Charge is 10 cents per seven characters per day. 
NOTICES 

TYPING '2:T7-8534 after 5:30 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH Tt£ U.S. GOYERN­IIIENT? GET Tt£ FACTS TODAY! CAU.(312)742-1142. EXT. 7316. 
TYPING IN MY HOME-RESUMES. LET­TERS. TERM PAPERS. THESES, 0155­ERTATKJNS, ETC. NEAT, ACCURATE WORK. REASONABLE RATES. 233­7009 MRS. COKER. 
Experienced typist will do typing. Very reasonable rates. Cal1287-5162. 
STUDENTS EARN XTRA MONEY Parttime lor info ca11234-0229 8-5 M-F 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
I lost my Hewlett-Packard calculator in the Engmeering Computer Room on Wed­nesday. Nov. 9. "has big initials of OS in the nght comer. H found, call David a12n­1326. Reward offered. No questions. 
LOST: SET OF KEYS, FRIDAY. NOV.11, SOMBNHERE BEnNEEN A GRACE PARTY AND CARROLL HALL ONE OF THE KEYS WAS MARKED WITH "425 N" ON IT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 284-4230 OR MARC AT 6741. IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT THESE ARE RETURNED. 
LOST: NAVY BLUE UGHTWEIGHT PACIAC TRAIL JACKET. TO THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE HAD FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT8810. 
LOST: To you who received the suprise 
gilt of a ched<book and c_,calculator in 
yoor backpack at the North Dining Hall; ;>lease return them to Dave Wilson at 229 Pangborn or call8388. My mistake...!!!! 
HELP! LOST A CLAODAUGH PENDANT THIS WEEKEND. REWARD 1FT FOUND. PLEASE CALL DONNA 6847. 
FOUND: small Quartz watch in Cushing Hall. Correct and precise identification catt Kan2n63l37. 
LOST: NOTRE DAME CRBN PUL­LOVER JACKET RBNARD W found PLEASE call Join Gibbon at1747 Wyou have any infonnation 
LOST·OID ANYONE PICK UP A PURPLE DOWN COAT AT CORBY'S THURSDAY, NOV. 17TH? IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING. PLEASE CALL CYNTHIAAT8017. 
LOST: Plastic bag containing two dress shirts. Left in Huddle night of (11127). H found. please catt George at3770. 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF GLASSES IN A Iter-NOON. LOST IN BUSINESS BUIL.OtNG, 
N.OINIING HALL. OR SOMBNHERE IN BEnNEEN. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL STEPH, X6841. 
FOUND -one pair of women's eyeglasses between Cavanaugh and Nieuwland on 11/28. Call1802 or stop by 1111 Grace. 
Lost: Quartz watch. Says KC AWARD WINNER 1983.11 found. call Dan at6748. Have only thanks to offer. 
LOST: LARGE GREEN & BLUE­STRIPED GANT RUGBY SHIRT OUTSIDE BADIN LAUNDRY 11118 OR 11119. PLEASE MAKE YOURSELF FEEL GOOD BY RETURNING TO LOST & FOUND IN ADMIN BUILDING OR CALL CHRIS-2n-4851. 
WANTED --..·-·-··---­
HELP WANTED· BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER. CALL 2n-4519 OR 288-3320. 
Desperately need ride to Cincinnati lor Thanksgiving Break. Will share any ex­penses. Call Mike 8989 
RIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK. SYRACUSE OR THE VICINITY AFTER FINALS CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME. 
NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO GREEN BAYAREA(St. NorbertsCollege) 1211 or 12/2 call Debbie 284-4372 
Need person to share house of male grad student. Cost $125 & 112 utilities. Call Chip after 5, 287-6226 
RIDERS NEEDED TO CLEVELAND­SPECIF. JOHN CARROLL U AREA­12/2-12/4 ;CALL WILL234-4511 
HELP! NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO AREAONFRI DEC 2 CALLMIKE8842 
FOR SALE ;;
L-----------------------..J­
EXOTIC PETS-......... ~turt1n, _....., ...pii!IMns, ............. 
....... l.argeet Mlecllon In u.s. ­-• Reptile, 1520 -.Ave., 232-2095, 2 mi. from N.D. 
FOR SALE -a three month old SlgMI­nlen 11ftVI modem. This is a 300 bai.Kl direct connect modem with: 
Auto answer capabilities 
Auto dial capabilities 
AI.Klible signals. not led's, so yoo can tuck tt out of sight. 
Normally this modem sells lor more than $150, but for this one time offer. I'll take the best offer better than $100. 
Call Nick at 283-1426 
XL 100. PRIME DOWN WINTER COAT FOR SALE--$80 OR BEST OFFER. CRAIG-3366 
t a1FOR SALE 1982 HONDA ACCORD 
4­

DOOR excellent cond. MICHELE RITCHIE 283-2988 
····························································­
STUDENTS EARN XTRA MONEY Parttime For info Call 234-0229 8-5 m-f 
····························································· 
TICKETS 
DESPARATELY NEED TWO UBERTY BOWL TIKS CALL 272-3491 
NEED: DePaul tix will trade UCLA or pay $$ call Vonce 3129 
I need 2 UCLA lilt Call JOE at1208. 
EMERGENCY!! 4 GA's neededlor UCLA. Ph. 8398$$$ 
PERSONALS 
EiR"liiiio:s..PiiZA NEEDs A DRIVER 
CALL 2n-4519 OR 288-3320. 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
Lost il engineering computer room. Cal/ Dallid at 2n-1326. No questions asked. Reward offered. 
For a gift that is unique, send a Bellygrarn to yoor sheik. Phone 272·1858 or 291­8215. 
Thanksgiving is for turkeys. 
DEAR KERRY, 
HAPPY 11TH BIRTHDAY, 
AU. OUR LOVE, 
Tt£LOSERS 
JUNIORS!! 
JUNIORS!! 
LOTTERY FOR ROOMS IN THE MOR­RIS INN FOR FEB.17-19(JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND) WILL BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 30TH AT 7:30 IN THE LAFORTUNE RATHSKELLER. 34 
. ROOMS WILL BE LOTTERIED. 
SEND DAN O'HARE TO 
THE UBERTY BOWLIII 
MAIL ONE DOLLAR TO 11105 GRACE HALL HE'LL HAVE A GOOD 
TIME ...GUARANTEEDIII 
Cure for MUNCHIES discovered! See coupons in the yellow pages of your Campus Telephone Directory! 
O·C Students There will be an 0-C Christmas dinner on Thursday Dec.1. It wHI be a bullet dinner with a speaker. The cost will be $5.00 per person. TICkets wit be available in the LaFortune beginning Monday after Thansgiiving. 
Y-CAFE: Ample sealing and take out or­ders available 
Y -CAFE: Reservations requested but not required. Plus-We detiver! 
STUDENTS EARN XTRA MONEY Parttime For info Call 234.()229 M-F 8-5 
Theology Forum llembera: PleeM come ID ., 1ntormat chcuaion with ,.,..,.....,,. Y-lind ........_ on 
Wlldneadlly, NoYIIII'Iber 30 et 10:00 
p.m. In room 115 Ho..-d Hell. 

l.ainey-Happy 21st birthday (yesterday). You've always been our favorite daughter. Have a good life! Love. Mom and Dad 
Elaine-I love you! Happy 21st! Puggums 
Elaine-Herzlichen Gluckwunsch zum Geburtstag! Good luck in everything yoo do. I care a lot for yoo! Big Bruder 
COLLEEN AND TONY, 
CONGRATSI 
YOUR BROTHER ALUMNUS 
ANNOUNCINGIll 

The Doug Rutie Yardage Game!!! Guess how much he throws in THE bowl game and win an autographed copy of Gerry's resignation letter!!' T Send entries to Don Shula. l%o The Miami Dolphins 
All entries muat be lor over 300 yards 
SIS, now that yoo are a LADY and no lon­ger a kid you don't need brotherly advice although a bro always does. Hope yoor birthday has been great! Thanks lor being such a good friend. Bro. 
To 304 Stanford: Thanks lor "adopting" us two lonely Kansans. Also. thanks lor the pearl necklace! We had a great time. Z and Laurie. P.S. Hackysack anyone? 
Maura: 
Hauab. 
du Husterlo! 
(love ya) 
MP 
BETSY BURKE-THIS BUD'S 4 U, NAUGLES. NICE [)(). DONT BLO IT! VULTURES & ROW. DID U BRING A TROUGH. BUY IT-SUNDAY X ARCHES HEY. ITS DANNY WHITE NICE AC­CENT YA'LL-2 BAD WE'RE SHY. 3 IS LATE, 4 IS EARLY, BUSTED AGAIN? ESCAPE FROM 7-11 THE VRETTES BLEW IT-TOASTED RAUS AGAIN? COMATOSE-FEAR OF KNOWLEDGE, NO MORE ROOMIES WELL MAYBE, THERE'S STILL SPRING TRAINING. NICE SHOES, YOUR PHONE DIED­LIKE THE CAR MECHANICS 101 NOT MRS. 3S-SYNCHRONICJTY-A DIRTY MIND. BUT WE HAD FUN. THANXS! 
P.S. PUKY & DUKY CALLED-SAME X NEXT YEAR-HOW BOUT BIG 0? CIAO 
HEY IRELAND WOMEN(P.LS)-YOUR FRIENDS BACK AT SMC MISS YOU. THANKS FOR YOUR POST CARDS. TAKE CARE AND HAPPY HOUDAYS! LOVE. THE 4-SOUTH GANG 
PATIY KANE'S 8-DAY IS TODAY. GIVE THIS USUALLY "VERY DULL" GIRL SOME EXCITEMENT AND CALL HER AT 5415 (SMC) 
MBA-RISK IT. TAG-CHOICES. RAH­IDEAS.MOI-? 
COP KJT: Find 'em! Who's looking? 
YOU' sole edvisor always was yooxse/f; 
You never istened to no one else. 
Yoo were /he one who ignored the signs. 
Dancing on a fine line, cutting it fine. 


The Observer 
Routs Louisville 


Kentucky replaces N.C. as No.1 

By DICKJOYCE 

Associated Press 
Kentucky, an impressive winner ovt·r Louisville, replaced North Carolina. which was unimpressive in heating Missouri, as the No. I col· lt-ge haskethall team hy two points in tht· first weekly Associated Press ranking.o; announced yt·sterday. 
Kentucky, second behind North Carolina in the preseason ratings, reccivnJ 24 first-place votes and 91-!H points from the nationwide panel of<; I sports writers and broad­casters. The Tar Heels also landed 24 No. I votes hut 91-!6 points. 
Both teams playt·d their season­openers Saturday. Kt:ntucky routed No. 6 Louisville 6<;-44, while North Carolina downed unranked Missouri 64-57. 
Georgetown, No. 4 in the preseason, moved into the third spot with 1-161-! points after whipping Hawaii-Hilo twice over the weekend. The Hoya~ attracted the remaining three No. I votes. 
Memphis State also moved up a notch to fourth with H 19 points after winning its first two games. 
Iowa, I -0 and scvt·nth in the preseason, jumped to the No. 5 spot 
--.---------.....---.....--,
MAII:-IN CERTIFICATE . 
Bac~<Mck Offer ·I 
.ThiS ha'ndy backpack w~t.ease the burde~ bf books. Ideal flH the cross-campus trek. it's .a ,goi/Q 
I 

g1ft for a tne11d.-oryourself. A $17.95 suggestetJ.. retail value To re9eive y_our baci\pack. send $10 99· 
,·I 

plus o~e proof of purchase• to·. Backpack Ottei. General Foods Coril: 3 Stuart Dnve, PO. Box 3600 
I 

Ka"nkakee. Illinois 60902-· 
.·.J 

·Narne'------~------------------------~----~--
Addres;,.____________________________________-, 
Cily/State/Ztp_______________:_____;__~~~ 
Offu 1~r11 June 30.1984. ·· • Liffill-one '''"person • Offer vo1d m ommg, Puerto RICo, and where prohibited.• taxed or otherw1se reslncted • Please at w 6-6 weeks lor ·processing • No prools ol purchase Will be accepled other than those specified • Offer good"onty in U.S.A., and U.S. Gov'l. lnstallattons. *A proof ol purchase IS the "cup w1th letters GFIC" cutlrom the,prastiC I 

MANUFACTURER'S COUPON. OFFER EXPIRES 5/31 /84. 
su~ 16'' M 12" If 5" Color, r&d 
Send backpack to 

Here's 30¢ to help you relaxwith General Foods®International Coffees. 
NB018684 
43000 84830 

with 706 points. Maryland, 1-0, ad­
vanced two places to sixth with 612 
points. 

lbe biggest leap was made by 
defending NCAA champion North 
Carolina State, which upset Hous­

ton, ranked No. 3 in the preseason. 
Nov. 19 and then swept three games 
to capture the Great Alaska 
Shootout, beating Alaska-

Anchorage, Santa Clara and 
Arkansa'\, ranked No. 14 in the 
preseason. 
'Ibe 4-0 record put the Wolfpack, unranked in the preseason, in the No. 7 spot with 602 points. 
Houston, which bounced back with a victory over Kansas Saturday, fell to the No.8 spot with 589 points, while UCLA, 2-0, remained No. 9 with 562 points. 
Oregon State, which opens its season Friday, stayed No. 10 with 454 points. 
Michigan State, 2-0, ranks II th, one notch higher than the presea'\l>n. The rest of the Second Ten, in order. consists of Louisiana State, Georgia, Arkansas, Boston Col­lege, DePaul, Fresno State, Wichita State, St. John's, and Virginia Com­monwealth. 

~~~~~~ 
~lliiiil~lliiil~ aiilliliilj 
This coupon good only on purchase ol any flavor of General Foods International Coffees. Any other use constitutes fraud. COUPON NOT TRANSFERABLE. LIMIT-ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. To The Retailer: General Foods Corporation will re1mburse you for the lace value of this coupon plus 
Boston College and Virginia Com­monwealth have yet to play. 
In addition to N.C. State, other newcomers in the Top Twenty, are Wichita State, St. John's, and Virginia Commonweaith. Dropped from the ran kings were Kansas, No. I 7 in the preseao;on, and Indiana and Ok­lahoma, previously the bottom two teams. Both Indiana and Oklahoma suffered losses over the weekend. 
A;tTopT-.ty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll. wrth first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records aQd total points. Points based on 2D-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized 
1 Kentucky (24) 1-0 988 2. North Carolina (24) 1·0 986 3. Georgetown (3) 2-0 868 4. Memphis State 2-0 819 5. Iowa 1-0 706 6. Mtuyland 1-Q 612 
7. North Carolina St. 4-0 602 8. Houston 1-1 589 9. UCLA 2-Q 562 
10. Oregon State 0-0 454 11. Michigan State 2-0 442 12. Louisiana State 1-0 417 13. Georg1a 2·0 333 14 Arkansas 2-1 299 
15. Boston College o-o 289 16. DePaul 1-0 181 17. Fresno State 1-1 145 18. Wichita State 1-0 117 19 St. John's 2-0 98 20 Va. Commonwealth 0-0 86 
Tuesday, November 29, 1983-page 8· 
"lbt: Bower 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team dropped two games last weekend to finish fourth in its four-team tournament, the Notre Dame Classic. Mike Sullivan gives an account of the two losses in his story on page 12. 
BRUNO'S PIZZA II 
(Across from Big "C" Lumber) 
For this week and Sunday when you arrive back at N.D. 
BRUNO will deliver a Large 18" Pizza FREE to campus For only $8 any toppings 
277-4519 
Open 4-11 7 days a week 
VISA"' and MasterCard"' Credit Cards Now Available to Students through TlmESRVER' 's BankActlon Program! No Minimum Income or Job Requirements. 
SaVIflQS account and fees required. Moil this coupon for complete 
information.  
Send to : Timesover Headquarters Building I  
Student Dept 1 12276  Wilkins Avenue I Rockville .  MD 20852  
Nome  
Address  
City  State  Zip  
0"1  
0"1  Phone (  
0 0  Schaal AMending  
Status  FrO  SophO  JrO  SrO  Grad ~J  

There's Never Been a BeHer Time to Get VISA"' and MasterCard"' Credit Cards! Apply Today! 

The Observer Tuesday, November 29, 1983-page 9 
Liberty Bowl 


ticket distribution 
TODAY Seniors 
TOMORROW Juniors 
THURSDAY Sophomores/ Law/Grads 
FRIDAY Freshmen 
BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m. -3:30 p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 
An Energy Career... 
in Brooklyn New York? 


BROOKLYN UNION GAS COMPANY 
Ifyou have the ambition and drive to work for an energy company considered a leader in its field, then we want to talk with you! Our recruiting date is 
November 29, 1983 
Please contact your  Brooklyn Union Gas  
Career Planning Center  195 Montague Street  
for details.  Brooklyn, New York 11201  

An equal opportunity employer 

~~~~~e 
Member F.D.I.C. 
Narrowly beat Sooners 


Nebraska loses ground to Texas 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON 
AssociatedPress 
Top-ranked Nebraska continued to rule college football yesterday, but the Cornhuskers lost a little ground to runner-up Texas in the next-to-last regular-season As­sociated Pre ss poll. 
Nebraska received 52 of 55 first­place votes and 1,097 of a possible 1,100 points from a nationwide panel of spons writers and sponscasters following Saturday's 28-21 victory over Oklahoma 
Meanwhile, Texas crushed Texas A&M 45-13 and received three first­place votes and 1,048 points. The Longhorns have been second for 11 consecutive weeks. 
Last week, with 59 voters par­ticipating, Nebraska led Texas 58-1 in first-place ballots and 1,179-1,118 in points. Nebraska, 12-0, and Texas, 11-0, finished the regular season as the only unbeaten-untied major col­lege teams in the country. 
Auburn, Illinois and Miami held onto the 3-4-5 positions with 973, 910, and 885 points, respectively. Auburn, 9-1, winds up Saturday against Alabama, while Illinois and 
Miami have completed 10-1 regular seasons. 
The Top Ten remained the same as last week, with Southern Met­hodist, Georgia, Michigan, Brigham Young, and Iowa completing the list. 
SMU defeated Houston 32-14, Georgia shaded Georgia Tech 27-24, while the others finished the season earlier. The points were 824 for SMU, 732 for Georgia, 694 for Michi­gan, 649 for BYtl, and 586 for Iowa 
The Second Ten consists of the same teams as a week ago, although there was some shuffiing in the or­der. 
This week shows Clemson, Florida, Boston College, Ohio State, Pittsburgh, Maryland, Air Force. 


Dolphins sign Shula for 'a few more years' 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Miami Dolphins Coach Don Shula, saying he's happy and at home in Miami, signed on yesterday for at least a few more years with the National Football League club he has directed to four Super Bowl ap­pearances since 1970. 
Neither Shula, 53, nor Dolphins owner joe Robbie would disclose any terms of the new deal, saying they were "personal to both ofus." 
Last month Shula turned down an offer of at least SI million a year to coach the rival U T nited States Foot­ball League's NewJersey Generals. 
He was already the NFL's best­paid coach, earning a reponed S450,000 a year under a contract that expires this February. There have been repons that Robbie wanted to make Shula the league's West Virginia, Alabama, and East Carolina. 
Last week it was Florida, Clemson, Alabama, Ohio State, Boston Col­lege, Pitt, Maryland, Air Force, West Virginia, and East Carolina 
In the only action involving mem­bers of the Second Ten, Boston Cjll­lege defeated Alabama 20-13. 
APTopT-.ty 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The As­sociated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season·s records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are naHcized. 
1. Nebraska (52) 12-Q-0 1,097 2. Texas (3) 11-o:o" 1,048 3. Auburn 9-1-0 973 4. IllinoiS 10·1-0 910 
5. Miami 10-1-0 885 6. So. Methodist 10-1·0 824 7. Georgia 9-1-1 732 8. Michtgan 9-2-0 694 9. Brigham Young 10-1-0 649 10. Iowa 9-2-0 586 11. Clemson 9-1-1 548 12. Florida 7-2-1 521 13. Boston College 9-2-0 425 14. Ohio State 8-3-0 386 15. Pittsburgh 8-2-1 289 16. Maryland 8-3-0 223 17. ANForca 8-2-{) 149 18. West Virginia 8-3-0 146 19. Alabama 7-3-0 126 20. East Carolina 8-3-0 9 
first SI million-a-year coach, but neither would elaborate yesterday. 
Shula said "tremendous loyalty" from Miami fans, players, and assis­tant coaches was one of many fac­tors that convinced him to stay with the team he has directed to 138 vic­tories in 197 games. 
"I could have waited until February or March (to see what other offers he might receive), but I decided instead that I've been happy here and this is where I want to be," said Shula, who was 209-80-6 overall with four regular season games to play in his 21st season as an NFL coach. 
The 1983 Dolphins were 8-4 and atop the AFC East going into last night's game against the Cincinnati Bengals. 


:CHAUTAUQUA PRESENTS: :
•
•

• EXPERIENCE • 
• THE • 
• rv10VIE • 
•
: Wednesday, Nov 30 at 7, 9, 11 
•
• Chautauqua Ballroom • : Admission $1.00 •• 

The Observer 

Raise record to 9-0-0 

Hockey team sweeps Dearborn 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
DEARBORN, Mich. -Junior co­
capt ain Brent Chapman and junior 
forward Tim Reilly paced the Notre 
Dame hockey team over the holiday 
weekl·nd as it swept the University 
of Michigan -Dearborn by scores of 
6-4 and 4-3 in a non-conference 
series. 

Chapman scored the hat tnck and added one assist in Friday's victory. He tallied the winning goal on Satur­day besides contributing two assists. Reilly was credited with three assists on Friday, and scored two goals in Saturday's win. 
Freshman goaltender Tim 
Lukenda turned in two fine perfor­
mances in the Irish nets. 

The weekend sweep raised the Notre Dame record to a perfect 9-0­0 overall and 5-0-0 in the Central States Collegiate Hockey League. 
The icers return to action this 
weekend when they travel to Green 
Bay, Wis. to take on league foe St. 
Norbert. 

Michigan-Dearborn was only the second varsity opponent for the team this season. And just as with the previous weekend against St. Thomas, the Irish showed that a solid performance is a key to sucn:ss. 
In Friday's contest. Notre Damc jumpcd out in front quickly as Chap­man knockcd in his first goal of the cvening just six minutes into the game. liM D's Ryan Willcttc then tied the score: at 13:24 of the period. 
A four goal barrage in the: second pl'fiml put Notre Damc up 5-3 and the ict·rs never lookt·d back. liMD took its first !cad ofthe game early in the pcriod as Willette pk·ked up his second goal of the game. It was the first of fivc goals by both teams that would come over a six-minute: span. 
• 

continuedfrom page 12 
the I 0 games thc two teams have played with Phelps and himsdf as coaches. 
"We're both taking young teams and 'testing the waters' with them," Phelps observed. 
And by late tonight, both Phelps and Knight should have some indica­tion as to whether their tcams will sink or swim this year. 
IRISH ITEMS -Indiana dropped 6-2 senior guard Chuck Franz from their squad yesterday because of academic difficulties . . . The 

Hoosiers beat the Irish early last season in South Bend by a 6H-52 
margin ... Indiana !cads the series : 
between the two teams 30-16, with I Notre Dame holding a 5-H mark at 
• • . Women 
continuedfr'ompuge 12 
has provided the Irish with some scoring punch and speed that has been lacking from the point guard spot. 
IRISH ITEMS -The Notre Dame record now stands at 1-2. The win came in the season opener against Marquette last Tuesday when the Irish blcw out the Lady Warriors, 96­6.>,, !0 sct an all-timc scoring mark. Trena Keys lcd the scoring with 22 points and everyone on thc tcam scored ... Keys wa.o; also the leading scorer in the Tennessee game with 14 points. Vonnie Thompson, Lynn Ebben, and Ruth Kaiser each scored 
I 0 points to lead the team against Maryland .... Next up for the Irish is UCLA on Saturday. The game will follow the men's game against UCLA which begins at 2 p.m . 
Thc Irish came right back, though, scoring twice: in the next two minutcs. Sophomore Bob Thebeau, with an assist from Reilly, tied the score at two. Just I:33 later, sopho­more Jeff Badalich, with help from both Chapman and Reilly, put Notre Dame in front 3-2. 
To keep the game close, UMD's Greg Everson knottcd the score at threc. But Chapman's second goal of the night at 9:21 put the Irish in front to stay. Chapman then rounded out the period's scoring on a power play goal at 19:5 I. 
Both teams scored twice in the final period. UMD pulled within one at 5-4 just fifty-six seconds into the period, but that was all the scoring it would see for the evening. Freshman Tom Smith iced the victory for the Irish at 6:47 of the period. Senior Mike Metzler picked up the lone as­sist. 
On Saturday, the Irish found themselves trailing 3-2 going into the final period. The team regrouped, however, and came out to score two quick goals to salvage the win. 
"We were behind by two goals at home against St. Thomas and the kids came back," said Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith. "Being down on the road was a big tcst and the kids responded very well. They weren't intimidated by being away from home." 
Notre Dame grabbed a two goal lead after one period on goals by Reilly and senior Adam Parsons. Chapman and sophomore Mark Ben­ning were credited with the assists on the Reilly goal, which came on a power play. Metzler and Smith got the assists on Parsons' goal. 
The second period was alllJM [) as three unanswcred goals by Everson, Gary Charlson, and Tony Macari put the home tcam on top 3-2 with one 
• • Hoosiers 
Indiana, and a 1-3 record in Assemb­ly Hall . . . Noted NBC basketball color man AI McGuire will speak at a 
pep rally before the UCLA game Friday night at 7:30 p.m. in the ACC 
Pit . . . Tonight's game will be televised locally on WNDU-TV (Channel 16) beginning at 7:30. 
period left to play. 
The Irish, feeling that their win 
string could be in jeopardy, quickly 
tied the score at threc just thirty­
nine seconds into the period. Reilly 
got the goal. It was his second ofthe 
game. Chapman had the assist. 
The winning goal came at the 5:48 
mark as Chapman banged a pass 
from Dadalich past UMD goalie Brik 
Pardo. 
Lukenda made 29 saves in Friday's 
victory and another 16 to turn back 
UMD on Saturday. 
"Overall it was a good series," said Smith. "It was a real team effort on both nights. Lukenda played ex­tremely well. And the penalty killing was really good too." 
The Irish held liMO to just one goal in l 5 power play tries. Notre Dame was two-for-six in the same department. 
The two losses dropped UMD's record to 8-9-0 on the season. Notre Dame now holds a 2-0-0 mark in the series. 
Tuesday, November 29, 1983-page io 

NHL Standings 
In this year's NHL playoff format, the top four teams 1n each division make the playoffs. regardless of over­allleague stand1ng. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Adame Dlvtalon Smythe Dvlalon 
w L T GF GA Pta. w L T GF GA Pta Boston 14 6 2 107 70 30 Edmon1on 19 4 2 154 102 40 Buffalo 13 8 3 92 85 29 Calgary 10 9 4 84 91 24 Quebec 12 11 3 123 96 27 Vancouver 10 12 2 10:? 103 22 
Montreal 11 11 1 95 91 23 los Angeles 7 12 5 9fi 110 19 Hartford 9 10 2 82 20 6 14 3 91 115
76 Winn1peg 15 
Pmrtck Dtvlalon Norrie Dlvllllon 
N.Y. 
Islanders 



16 8 0 107 83 32 Minnesota 11 9 3 107 110 25 
N.Y. 
Rangers 


14 8 4 108 92 32 Chicago 10 12 2 89 103 22 Philadelphia 13 8 2 95 80 28 Detrort 10 10 2 84 86 
22 
Washington 11 12 1 79 85 23 Toronto 10 12 2 102 116 22 Pittsburgh 6 15 3 73 96 15 St. Louis 9 12 2 86 99 20 New Jersey 
2 20 0 57 112 Tonight'a Gemea 
Sund.y'a Reaune 
Buffalo at Montreal 
No games scheduled Washington at Quebec Chicago at New Jersey 
N.Y. Islanders at St. Louis 

Pittsburgh at Minnesota Yemerdey'e Aeaune 
Philadelphia at Calgary Vancouver 3. N.Y. Rangers 3tie Winnipeg at los Angeles 


•I 

A unique Chr:lstmas giftfor the sportsfan on yourl:lst! 
The delightful poem andbrilliant full-color illustration are printed on 10"xl2" highest quality paper and custom matted 
in school colors. Over40Schools on request. 
Please send. me_ Santa posters. I'm encJ.osing $8.00plusSLSOshipping for each. Allow 10 D~zy5 for delivery 
NP

Jrauw_____________________________ 
JU!dress___________________________ 
City_____ State____Zip___ 
Carole's Collectibles 9428 MartindaleB.d., Columbia,SC, 29806 
• 41 t • e e t f f f I I I ' t • i L • • .. \ L '11.. ''-'-"\.. "'. • • .. ',_ , .. • .. --,. • • •_ • •., 'lro..'t!~' • 


~c:tcJltal~---------------------------------T•u_e~--~-'-N_o_v~ P_~_e_I_l
__re__r-29_,_1_98_3_-__ 
Bloom County 

Fate 



Mellish 
.JJ5T $21f0,(X)() A MOfmi / 7Htrr'5 PU-! CAN YOV 8€.Uf.Vf. rT!' ANP PofiD?. AU... 5Hf-'5 BaN 1HKCWfl .' 1Htrr .lJHNNY CARfJON•. IIf.'5 50... 50 fr'IISERLY! 



... T'vt BECIJH£ A SHIITE MOSLEM AND I'M l>ROPRN(( OUT OF SCHOOL. 9/r FOf 
so BUcKs ro 1i£ WtWN~ 7rJ (CCOf6t0a?.~, LOVE, ALl (~.k.«. TAl<!). 
Berke Breathed 

Campus 
VA WANNA KNOW VIi/If 
JOANNA OJ&Iff10 ClO WITH 1HAf $zqo, (X)() 
•3:30 p.m. -Seminar, "Theoretical Calculations
A MOmH ?!.,. 
I 
of the Thermodynamic Properties of Molecular Fluids," Prof. PeterA. Monson, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Lecture, "Couplings Be­tween Wetland and littoral Vegetation and Lake Metabolism," Prof Robert G. Wetzel, Galvin life Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
amd 9 p.m. -Film, "400 Blows," Ap.nenberg Auditorium, Arts and Letters Core Course 

•8 
p.m. -King Lear Readings, "An Evening with James Earl Jones: Readings from King Lear," Wash­ington Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Democratic Socialists Meeting, Cen­ter for Social Concerns



Photius 

JUST SE/'10 HIM THe 


TV Tonight
M6NEY. 

I 

6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 

Dave&Dave 
8p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 


All Rights Reserved 

The Dally Crossword 
ACROSS 37 Branch 68 Punta 1 French 38 Lose del­composer strength 69 Wrenched 
5 Popular 39 Practical book sub­joke DOWN ject 41 Month 1 Meadows 
9 Certain 42 Closeby 2 Ogee tense 44 Helpful 3 Kind of 13 Emerald ones bean 
Isle 47 "Grant" 4 Narrow 14 Agent player road 15 Middle East 49 Chess 5 Sketched 
leader master 6 Particle 16 Summit 7 Outside of 17 Uses tem­authority 
porarily 50 Peddles 8 Cicely the 18 Bank(on) 51 Wouk's actress 19 Unsuitable captain 9 Inspects 
for navi· 53 Hebrew 10 Iowa city 
gation letter 11 River 21 Sturdy 54 Shrill cry sediment 23 Assistance 56 Cooperative 12 Endeavor 
venture 60 Something 14 Nudge 24 Two-faced for Holmes 20 Claims 
god 61 Collect 22 Secure 25 Make up 63 Deadly sin 24 Notch 28-masque 64 Pod occu-25 Turkish 29-Buena, pants city 
Cal. 65 Less than 26 Spares 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 MacNeiVLehrer Report 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 34 Straight Talk 16 A Team 22 The Mississippi 28 Rodney Dangerfield Special 34 NOVA 16 Remington Steele 22 Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 34 Vietnam: A Tele~ision History 28 OhMadeline 16 Bay City Blues 28 Hart to Hart 34 The Great Spirit Within the Hole 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Big Red Football 

11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Trapper john/McCloud 

33 Withdrew airtight 27 Founder of neighbor 36 Apple 66 British gun Ottoman 60 IRSman relative 67 Entrance Empire 62 Consume 
"Blast! This cinches it! ... If we ever find it again, I'm gonna bolt the sucker on!" 
28 Thicke ofthe Night 


Far Side
28 Trifles 30 Ciceroor 
Lucullus 31 Mark 32 Pit 34 Krypton, 
for one 35 Women's org. 
40 Philanthro· 
pist 43 Petition 45 Monthly pub. 46 Furious 
storm 48 Herb 52 Certain 
scout 53 Quite a few 
54 "Rosebud" 55-d'Orsay 56 Torte 57 Aware of 58 Finished 59 BOston 


~ Student Union takes you to... * ~ 
* * 
* * 
~ ASPEN ~ 
* * 
* *
* *
* *
* *
* including 6 nights condo accomodations * ~ 5 day lift ticket * * $265.00 * START THINKING ABOUT SPRING BREAK!!! * * 
~~~~~~~~~~~xo~~~~~QX~~~~o.x~-~____s_ta__n_t_h_i_n_k_in.g._a_b_o_u_t_S_P_R__lN__G_B__R_E_~_K_r__~,~--~ 


Tonixht, Notre Dame travels to Bloomington to play In­diana in what will be theirfirst big lest oftbeyoung season. See the two related stories on this page for a summary of the weekend's action andfor a preview oftonight's game. 
Finish fourth 

Tuesday,November29, 1983·-page 12 



Young squads square off tonight as Irish travel to Bloomington 
ByJEFF BLUMB He's just looking to get comfortable star Isaiah Thomas but who is of no AssistantSportsEditor right now." relation to the Detroit Piston guard. Blab has also led the Hoosiers in "Daryl Thomas is going to do 
Two relatively young basketball the blocked shot department during something soon," commented squads will square off tonight in each of his two previous campaigns Phelps. Indiana will probably be Bloomington, Ind., each trying to get in Bloomington. without junior swingman Winston their season off the ground by Looking to step in to fill a forward Morgan tonight, as he hao; been beating the other. spot for Indiana is 6 -8 sophomore plagued by a foot injury recently. 
For Indiana, it will be a chance to Mike Giomi. Playing in 19 games last 
Indiana will also be trying to show that their No. 19 ranking in the year in a relief role, Giomi could 
bounce back from last Saturday's 63­AssociatedPress pre-season poll was muster only a 2.3 point scoring 
57 upset at the hands of Miami of no fluke. In addition, the Hoosiers average, but more impressively, shot 
Ohio. 

will be out to prove that there is life at a 54.5 percent clip. after Ted Kitchel and Randy Wit­More importantly for Indiana, Knight apparently was not very tman. Giomi lead their scoring with 14 happy with the way hi1> team played 
For Notre Dame, the Indiana game points in their 73-72 win over Italy in that game. He was quoted after­
is an opportunity to establish itself as earlier this year. 
ward as saying, "I wasn't pleased a team to be reckoned with in the "Giomi's playing a lot better," says with anything we did today. I'm not 
1983-'84 college basketball season. Phelps. 
pleased with the way we've been The Irish will be out to improve Another sophomore, Stew Robin· playing or rebounding.'' 
upon their honorable mention in the son, hopes to contribute on a more Notre Dame will try to play its pre-season poll. regular basis this year after appear­more run-and-gun game of this year"That (becoming a ranked team) ing in 26 games last year as a fresh· against Indiana's notoriously stingywould be a great goal for us," says man. The 6-1 guard is probably the defense. 
Notre Dame head coach Digger quickest player on the Hoosier "We are trying to up-tempo a" Phelps. "To do it, we could start by squad and should fit into the much ao; we can and we'll make ad­heating teams that are ranked." playmaker role well. 
justments a~ the year goes along,"Indiana returns only 7-2 Uwe Blab But the Indiana player to watch says Phelps. "We want. to run and from their top six players of a year could turn out to be freshman guard shoot ao; much as we can." 
ago. The junior from Munich, Ger­Steve Alford. Named "Mr. Basket­The Irish will probably have to many figures to be the one the ball" in Indiana, the 6-1 native of shoot better against Indiana than Hoosiers will look to for much of New Castle notched 12 points in they did against Marist ( 44 percent)their scoring. IU's win over Italy. 
to win tonight.

Blab averag ed 9.4 points pergame Alford averaged a remarkable 37.2 
But according to Phelps, the keyfor the Hoosiers last year to be their points last year in leading New to the game will likely be another fourth leading scorer. He came on to Castle High School to state runner­factor. 
"We just can't play with mistakes final 13 games, showing signs ofim­Others who could sec some ac­in the game with Indiana," says the provement and maturity. tion for the Hoosiers tonight include Irish coach. "'Ibe team that wins is 
"Uwe is one of the big men in the 6-8 junior college transfer Courtney the one that plays with poise, the country that is improving," says Witte, the first junior college player one with the rebounding and the Phelps. "I think he is a good player. to join up with Indiana coach Bobby foul shooting at the end of the Knight; 6-5 junior Dan Dakich; 6-8 game."
freshman Todd Meier; 6-4 sopho­Phelps knows his counterpart more Tracy Foster; 6-5 freshman Knight well. Knight, who will coach Marty Simmons, lao;t year's Illinois the I984 U.S. Olympil: team, hao;"Mr. Basketball" who averaged 32

Irish women lose two in tourney 
beaten the Irish seven times out of 
points a game; and 6-7 freshman By MIKE SULLIVAN fell behind, 4-3, less than three attended
mance against Tennessee. Although Daryl Thomas, who the 
see HOOSIERS, page 10 
never recovered. In fact, after closing to 
Sports Editor minutes into the game and the game was sloppy (52 turnovers same high school as former Indiana 
and 36 fouls by the two teams), The Notre Dame women's basket­within three points, I 8-1 5, Notre Notre Dame 
was able to keep up ball team continued to find that life Dame never got closer than nine with the talented Vols after falling 

Irish gain experience 
among the: national powers can be points the rest ofthe way. behind early. very tough as it finished fourth in the "I was surprised by the lack of Except for the first eight minutes four-team Notre Dame Classic this determination of our players," said of the game, the Irish played very 

as they sweep two 
weekend. However, the Irish also DiStanislao. "Maryland got a lot of tough defense and were able to keep 
found that the gap between them brealts early, both fast and lucky, but Tennessee within striking distance. 
ByWILL HARE opponent.
and the prt......ent powers is not as big when you know what you have to do However, the 11-point lead that the 
Sports Writer "I wao; shocked to say the least,"
as it used to be. to win -as our players did -you Lady Vols built up early in the game said Puma coach George Waggoner,Mary DiStanislao's squad losl both have to do it." before the Irish realized that they Game experience. "but I expected it. Our young kidsof its games in the tournament, fal­What Notre Dame did not do was could play with their nationally­That is what Notre Dame basket­didn't handle it very well, but they'llling to No. 3 Tennessee in the first stop the offense of Terp guard Mar­known opponents. 
ball coach Digger Phelps wanted for learn from it and we'll bounce back."
round, 71·56, and to No.8 Maryland, cia Richardson and forward Che­Gradually, the Irish began to gain his team last weekend and that is If the game was a heavyweight
H6-68, in the consolation game:. The quita Wood. Richardson, Maryland's confidence and closed the gap to what he received as the Irish won a fight, it would have been stopped intwo losses told different stories all-American, was virtually unstop­eight while Tennessee's all-America pair ofhome games. the first round, as Notre Dame racedabout Notre Dame's progress, pable ao; she made 10 ofher 15 shots, forward Mary Ostrowski was on the The victims were St. Joseph's of to a 25-6lead in the first 8:10. 
though. most ofthem from more than 1 5 feet bench with foul trouble. However, Rensselaer, Ind. on Friday night and "For us, this was an opc:ner to giveThe loss to Tennessee showed an out. She ended up with 23 points, Notre Dime let the big opportunity Marist College on Saturday after­us confidence, especially our young­Irish team that had come a long way seven assists, and four steals. slip by and Tennessee began noon. After bombing the Pumas, er players," stated Phelps. "We setsince last year when nationally­Wood was the force in the middle dominating the boards. The lead bal­104-56, Notre Dame struggled the the tempo ofthe game early."
ranked teams were able to pound as she pulled down 14 rebounds and looned to 21 before the Irish made next day in beating the Red Foxes, Notre Dame applied a relentlessNotre Dame easily. The losing mar­scored 22 points. It was her play an impressive comeback to cut the 75-68. full-coun press forcing 31 Puma tur­gin wa~ Notre Dame's smallest inside that forced the Irish defense lead to 10 with two minutes left. It In Tom Sluby novers.
against a powerful team since a to give up the outside shot to people was too little, too late, however. Friday's game, topped the scoring parade with 17 The next game featured more of
seven-point los.~ to Rutgers more like Richardson and Belinda Pear­"We had them right where we points on 8 of 1 0 shooting. The Irish the same as the Irish raced to a 38-19
than a year ago, and the Irish were man, who finished with eight points. wanted them," said DiStanislao, "but jumped out in front of St. Joseph's lead over Marist in the first hal(
within ten points with a few minutes However, as much damage as the it is the mark of a good team that 50-19 at the end of the first half and But Steve Eggink's hot shooting
remaining. potent Maryland offense did, it was when one person isn't doing the job, then cruised to the easy win. and Notre Dame's cold second half'Ibe Maryland Ios.o; destroyed the Notre Dame's inability to do any­another picks up the slack. And shooting allowed the Red Foxes tooptimism of Notre Dame fans as the thing on offense that proved to be Paula Towns (14 points, 8 The Irish again were aided by their impressive crop offreshmen. cut the large margin to just 63-58,Irish played poorly and were never the killer. The Irish shot 3 7 percent rebounds) picked up the slack." 
Forward John Bowen led all forcing Phelps to call a timeout with
in the: game against a team that many from the field and were unable to get "It was obvious that Tennessee rebounders with 1 0 and also just 7:23 to go.
pc:ople thought Notre Dame t·ould the ball inside of the sagging was the aggressor. They made situa­chipped in with 14 points, all in the Sophomore forward Jim Dolanbt·at. The Terrapins shot 68 percent Maryland defense. The telltale stat tions and we didn't. It says a lot second half Scott Hicks, a first-year then led an Irish rally ofnine straight
from the: field in the first halfand the was the number of assists for each about their experience. They knew guard, was impres.o;ive in netting 16 points ao; Notre Dame iced the game.
Irish could never get doser than II team. While the Terps were able to where the defense was and took ad­points and adding four steals. "We had a two minute lapse whenin the second half. pass the ball inside to set up baskets vantage ofit." 
Sophomore Joe Buchanan earned the game was very close," said Eg­"I thought Notre Dame played a and compile 20 assists, Notre Dame "I don't think we're very far away a start at the point guard spot, and gink. "But the key to the game wasbeautiful game against Tennessee, could only pick up three a~sists. at all," she continued. "We just need made the best of it by contributing the first half, where we wt·re just toobut showed a little disappointment "The lack ofauthority with which to play with intensity for 40 nine assists. jittery."
about the los.o; when they played us," our team executed was really minutes." 
"I thought Joe Buchanan did a Those jitters resulted in just 38said Maryland coach Chris Weller. surprising," said an obviously­The performance the next night good job ofgetting us into our game percent shooting while the Irish hit 
...Ibey seemed to he thinking too disappointed DiStanislao. "There -against Maryland changed her op­plan," said Phelps. "I told John 61 percent and gained a 47-33
much about the pa~t game and was a lack of confidence and deter­timistic tone. Only the impressive Bowen, who scored 14 points,
looked awfully frustrated against mination that emanated from a few r showing of freshman point guard to halftime edge. 
thank Joe Buchanan for his points "We had not faced that kind ofus." players to the whole team. Some Vonnie Thompson gave her reason because it wasJoe's defense that got man-to-man pres.'iure before," saidDiStanislao wa~ <:ertainly people played well against Tennes­to be happy. Thompson has played John the easy shots." Red Fox coach Ron Petro. "Oncefrustrated a~ she watched her team see, but fell flat against Maryland." nearly every minute this year and In all, it was no contest for the
play without tht· intensity that it had DiStanislao was a little more Irish as they pounded the Division II see VICTIMS, page 7
showed against Tennes.o;ee. The Irish pleao;ed with her team's perfor-see WOMEN, page 10 



