• • • M*A *S*H-page 4 


TUESDAY, MARCH 1,1983
VOL. XVII, NO. 107 the independent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's 
In LaFortune 
News network broadcasts begin 
By DIA."''E DIRKERS The Dallas-based firm came up house), and that the University has Copy Editor with the idea of a nationwide the right to refuse any ads it may find campus news network "about a year objectionable. 
What .ha~ flashing red lights, and a half ago," said its president, "We don't stand on First Amend­moves horizontally, and has mes· Bruce McDougal. ment rights," explained McDougal. merized Notre Dame students since "The research and development "If something is objectionable, we last Friday? No. it's not a U.F.O. It is took a year. Our first installation will change it at the request of the the broadcast screen installed last took place last September at South­college, with no questions asked." week on the first tloor of LaFortune ern Methodist University in Texas. "When we started ENN," said Student Center by the Electronic Since -then, the network has been McDougal, "the.re was a com­News Network ( ENN ). growing exponentially, installing munications gap in many univer­
The network, which broadcasts to broadcast centers at the rate of one sities between student union the L'niversity free of charge, will , or two a day. Today (Monday), for directors and the students and provide daily coverage of national, instance, we installed systems at Vil­faculty. Our service has been very ef­international, sports, and campus lanova and Case Western Reserve fective in reducing that gap. events, according to Director ofStu· College." "For example," he continued, "at dent Activitiesjames McDonnell. ENN serves 122 colleges and uni­East Texas State Unive-rsity the net­
The service is provided by versities with which it has con" work announced a meeting for all Electronic News Network, Inc., with tracted to set up broadcast centers, those interested in running for stu­costs underwritten by national ad­and presently broadcasts to· 68 dent body president. No other 
vertisers. schools nationwide, including such means of publicity were used -no .Campus news and events will be institutions as the University of newspaper ads, no posters, no flyers. 
featured on the screen and will be Alabama, Michigan State University, The meeting was standing room on­compiled by a representative of the and the University of Southern ly.". Student Union, explained McDon­California. McDonnell hopes that Notre nell. "We plan to use items from The McDonnell commented that Dame will experience a com­Observer, the campus calendar, and there will be no adverisements of munications effect similar to that at 
any notices that \are sent to us far any tobacco, alcohol, or soft pornog­East Texas State. Whe·n asked how 
enough in advance," he said. raphy (such as Playboy or Pent-long the contract for the service would last, he replied!, "First, we'll see if it's valuable -if the students 
enjoy it. Potentially, we'll be able to

PACE recommends 
provide diffferent news centers see NETWORK, page 4

'satellite' social centers 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the
By DAVID DZIEDZIC 

ND vice-president 
Freshman Year of Studies,

and MARGARET FOSMOE was the chairman of the Subcommittee on
Executive News Editors 
Student Life for the PACE Report. He and the five other members of the 



,Toyce regrets lack ofcontact
Editor's note: The following is the 

subcommittee met sevrral times
first ofa two-part series examining 
with student organizations and in-
the PACE Report's recommedations 

' dividual students. "My group was
for student social life. Part two will By MICHELE DIETZ to live in the halls and work with stu­Hesburgh, who had just ascended to 
primarily concerned with identify­
appear in Thursday's Observer. SeniorStaffReporter dents," the Universty's executive the University presidency. The new ing the strenghts and weaknesses of 
vice president said. He explained Hesburgh-joyce team would come social life at Notre Dame as these
The question of a new or Editor's Note: This is the first part that he was assigned, in 1949 by the to rule for another 31 years, and 
needs are perceived by the stu­
renovated student center remains ofa two-partseriesprofilingFather Holy Cross order of priests, to help counting. undecided as the University moves Edmund P. joyce, executive vice in Notre Dame's Office of Business Father joyce's business past plays
dents," Hofman said. "The social facilities at Notre
ahead with plans for upgrading president ofthe University ofNotre Affairs. Shortly after, Father John a part in what he does now at Notre 
Dame were designed for a small,
present social facilities on campus. Dame. Burke, then vice president for busi­Dame; that is, where handling
male population," he said. "The 
ness affairs, became ill and Father money is concerned. As executive needs of a coeducational student These days, mentioning "Father joyce had to take over as acting vice vice president, he is also treasurer ­body remain unsatisfied. This is the 
joyce" at Notre Dame probably president for business affairs. the man in charge ofall finances at major problem." conjures up images ofa priest break­Father Burke recovered a few Notre Dame. The Subcommittee on Student ing a hockey stick in two. months later, however, so President This job includes wearing the hats Life presented its report to O'Meara 
The name Father joyce now Francis Cavanaugh and Executive of chairman of the University build­The PACE (Priorities and Com­and the rest ofthe PACE committee. means "death of hockey" to many. Vice President Father Theodore ing committee, which allows him to Hofman stresses the fact that the
mitments for Excellence) Report, Yet, despite this image, who is Ed­Hesburgh suggested that Father make final decisions on the con­which considers the improvement final report was written by O'Meara. mund P. joyce, and what exactly joyce go to Oxford University in struction of all facilities at Notre of social life a top priority, recom­"I'm very pleased with the student does he do as Executive Vice­London to get another degree. Dame, and chairman of the Faculty mends a number of "satellite social life section of the report," Hofman President of Notre Dame? Father Burke had a terminal relapse Board in Control ofAthletics, a posi­centers," such as the Oak Room said. "Dr. O'Meara captured.what we 
though, and Father Joyce had to tion that gives him the power to con­
Cafe, be created. These satellites reported accurately." leave Oxford and officially take over trol all athletic matters. would revolve around "a cluster of Father David Tyson, executive as­Burke's position in September 1951. "You name it, I'm pretty much social and cultural centers". to be sistant to the president, was a mem­"I had no idea I would be involved involved in it," said Father joyce. 
located in an accessible part of ber of the PACE committee. He says in administration," Father joyce "It's hard to delineate a job like this." campus. the report was designed to "sketch said. "I wanted to work and live with His "job" entails a vast number of The report concluded that "it has out an internal study" of the social young people. It is one ofthe big dis­obligations such as renovating 
space presently available. Much of
not been convincingly appointments of my life. But I have campus buildngs, dealing with demonstrated that any new facility, the input received from residence to be philosophical about it and say WNDU, the NBC affiliate television no matter how expensive, will be hall rectors concerned the capacity, 'you're still achieving things for stu­station in South Bend, which Notre adequately utilized." The satellite adequacy and use of social space. dents."' Dame owns and Father joyce literal­centers are seen as a long-range P!an Tyson said the research showed that Father joyce, 66, born in Telas, ly put together, or choosing a new allowing room for flexibility. Honduras, did exp.erience the life of football coach.
"we have extremes" in terms of 
The satellite centers include such present facilities. Some halls, such as a Notre Dame student, though; a joyce is also a trustee on the Na­existing facilities as Senior Bar, the Pasquerillas, have much social "double domer" in a sense, he 
tional Conference of Christians and Stepan Center and the Engineering space while older halls, such as Father Edmundjoyce graduated from Notre Dame in jews, a member of the Board of Auditorium. Lyons, have virtually none. Students see -or at least hear 1937, the first Notre Dame graduate Visitors for the U.S. Naval Academy 
Provost Timothy O'Meara, who University President Father about Father Hesburgh: saying to come from South Carolina. (appointed by President Dwight D.
-wrote the PACE Report, sees the Theodore Hesburgh, according to mass, giving speeches, denouncing He received his CPA in 1939 and, Eisenhower), and recipient of two area around LaFortune Student Cen­Tyson, was interested in examining nuclear weapons in the newspapers, deciding to enter the priesthood, honorary doctorates from the Col­ter, Washington Hall, and the Center existing facilities and determining meeting world leaders in Vienna -went to Holy Cross College in Wash­lege of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn., for Social Concerns as "part of a "what is not being utilized." All but what about FatherJoyce? Do stu­ington, D.C., from 1945-49. Shortly and Belmont Abbey College in Bel­nucleus" necessary for the satellite studies ofcampus social space were dents know about him? after his appointment as vice presi­mont, N.C. center proposal to work. He charac­conducted by members of the Uni­Father joyce said, in a recent Ob­dent for business affairs, he wasted As treasurer of the University, 
terized the plan as "a central loca­versity. The hiring of professional server interview, that he regrets his no time climbing the administrative Father joyce makes recommenda­tion as distinct from a central lack of student contact. "My great ladder, and in 1952, was appointed
see PACE, page 4 · 
see VICE PRESIDENT, page 4

facility." hope that has never bc:en realized is executive vice president by Father 





ews Brie/§ 
By The Observer and Tbe Associated Press 
Advance enrollment deposit and computer cards for Notre Dame students are due at the Office of Student Ac-• counts by Friday, March 4. The cards and $50 deposit (ifapplicable) must be returned byregular mail. The validity ofon-campus housing contracts depends on the prompt return of this card. -The Ob­server 
Two Nicaraguan religious, a Roman Catholic priest and a Baptist miniser, will present the film Women in Arms tonight in the Center for Social Concerns. Father Enrique Blandon, a 23-year old priest who works in Nicaragua's Zelaya province, and Rev. Patricia Castro Rocha, director of the Department of Christian Education at the Ecumenical Center in Managua, will introduce the hour-long documentary on the role ofwomen in Third World libera­tion movements. Aquestion-and-answer session will follow the film. Women in Arms is sponsored by Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute and the Notre Dame Latin American Solidarity Coalition. Admission i t s free and the public is invited. -The Observer 
Bruce Davidson, photographer and mmmaker, will display some of his recent works and discuss techniques during a public program at 7:30p.m. tomorrow in Notre Dame's Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. A reception will follow. Davidson was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1962 and one of his shows was accepted by the Museum of Modern Art for showing. His latest work, "Subway," was'shown at the International Center of Photography and is the subject ofa feature article in the November issue ofCamera Arts. Davidson is a native ofOak Park, Ill. He studied at the Ro<.hester Institute of Photography and the Yale School of Design and his photo essays have appeared in Life, Vogue, Esquire and Magnum magazines. Reviewers have described his style as "consistently sensitive, authentic and exploitive of the new visual possibilities of the small camera_" His best known photo essays are "The Widow of Montmarte," 1956; "The Dwarf," 1958; "The Brook­lyn Gang," 1959; "The Bridge," 1963; "A Trip West," 1966; "East 
1OOth St.," 1970; and "The Garden Cafeteria," 1976. -The Observer 
An off-canlpus housingopen house will be held from noon to 5 p.m. today in the first floor of La Fortune. Representatives from area apartments and nearby homeowners will be on hand to answer questions and give out information. -The Observer 
A top government official warned today that Arab Persian Gulf states will preserve their own interests if OPEC fails to agree on price and production levels. "The gulf oil exporters will have to act in such fashion that enables them to retain a reasonable production level and revenues because we mainly depend on oil as a source of income," Minister ofState for Cabinet Affairs Abdul Aziz Hussein said after a Cabinet meeting. -AP 
Retiring United Auto Workers union Presi­dent Douglas Fraser has accepted a teaching position at the Univer­sity ofMichigan. Fraser, 66, was appointed Thursday to teach during 
Tuesday, March 1, 1983-page 2 

Retire Hesburgh? 
Notre Dame and Fatht:..-Theodore Hesburgh. Unless your association with the University extends to the dark ages before 1952, you may think of these two as synonymous. In many cases you wouldn't be too far off the mark. 
Unlike our oft-mentioned ideal to the east -Harvard -Notre Dame's reputation does not date back to the pleistoscene. When Hesburgh took over, Notre Dame was a place with good football teams that gave Irish and Catholic folks a good excuse to get tanked. 
The Memorial Library is a good example of the monumental job Hesburgh has done in elevating this school above the gridiron. The University's colleges have been expanded, the faculty has been improved and, as Dean Emil T. Hofman loves to proclaim, each year's incoming are smarter than the preceeding year's dopes. For the more physically inclined, through the auspices of the str:mgly ubiquitous Ellerbe Architects, new buildings have multiplied almost as quickly as the cockroaches. 
As any alum knows who has proudly taken his son to see his old room in dorms like Walsh and Farley, the most controversial change was admitting women to this sacred institution. There were coast to coast protests, but they didn't hold water to cold realities of the decision. As was characteristic of many ofhis decisions, Hesburgh's move "to add a new dimension" to an N.D. education was a shrewd one. After the liberalization of the sixties, all-male schools dropped in popularity. Thus, women may have helped "humanize" this place, but they have also preserved en­rollment. 
In addition to promoting the University, Hesburgh has done a good job ofpromoting himself. His days as a tough rector of Farley Hall are long gone. How many university presidents can boast appearances on Time magazine, "60 Minutes" andAirForce One? He has been the consort of presidents, and who can forget last year when he and his dark glasses traveled to oversee the elections in El Salvador? These accomplishments are impressive, but they are also examples of how Hes­burgh has outgrown his job. 
More and more, ht:: has been on the defensive regard­ing his travels. When The Observer instituted a "Today Father Hesburgh is:" column, his reaction was swift; no longer would his travel plans be released. The feature was not meant to demean him, but rather to highlight his active life. If Hesburgh can boast of his activities on The David Suskind Show, why not in his local 


STUDENTS! 
Considering Moving Off Campus? 
There will be an open house with area landlords tomorrow from 12 noon until5pm on the 1st floor of LaFortune. 
Meet informally with 
representatives from 
Campus View, Park Jefferson, Turtle Creek, N.D. Apartments, Castle Point, and private homeowners. 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor 
Inside Tuesday 

newspaper? This was another example of the dual life he has come to lead. 
Recently, Hesburgh has made several comments in public that reveal a less than timely knowledge of the campus. The Tom Dooley Room was moved from LaFortune under his nose, and he had no idea as to why. He expressed disappointment that students on the Notre Dame campus had passed the nuclear freeze referendum ...that is, until told it really hadn't passed. This happened despite the fact that at a forum with the "Notre Dame family" last fa\ 0~QQfW1nl~0year, Hesbur~h's main topic
vCJlJ UvWUUU of conversation concerned his efforts to unify the f!J (1._ ~ 0]1 world's scientists against101 0,J nuclear warfare.
l_(;Ln.J~ V 0 

Thirty years is a long time nlo\c!lJ[fu@~ for any person to hold one
@

IJ~L\ eJ o= position. When Hesburgh calls Notre Dame a "great Catholic University," he is in many ways justified. But along with the boosting, there is a growing sense of defensiveness. 
Certainly, as a 35-year-old priest becoming a university president, Hesburgh had a vision. But I don't think we can expect him to continue having visions for Notre 
Dame. Hesburgh has realized this: he attempted to resign two years ago, and there was even a search for a 
replacement. But in the end, those involved chickened out and decided the job was too much. 
Faculty and administrators both agree that the Uni­versity is at a crossroads. Thanks to Hesburgh we are on 
the verge of truly becoming great; what is needed now is a person with the same far-reaching vision that 
benefitted this plac·e thirty years ago. Hesburgh has proposed he serve as chancellor, which would allow 
him to continue his symbiotic relationship with the University. However, he would have the time to pursue 
the directions he has earned. After all, what is more in­triguing, guiding a university, or working for world peace? 
fall term, said university spokesman Wono Lee. Fraser is scheduled to step down in May after six years as UAW president. He will teach a course tentatively called "The Organization of Work in the Coming Decades," which will be· open to undergraduate honor students and selected graduate students, Lee said. -AP 
Joe Raposo, who created the theme for "Sesame Street," has been named Portuguese-American of the Year. About 1,000 people, including "60 Minutes" co-editor Morley Safer, Sen. Paul Tsongas, D-Mass., and U.S. Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., honored Raposo, a native ofFall River, at a dinner Sunday night. "It's a tribute to your city," Safer said. "You take someone from Fall River, send him to Harvard and then to New York, and he's still a nice guy." Raposo has won four Grammy Awards and is the musical director for "Sesame Steet" and "The Electric Company." His father emigrated from the Azores to Fall River, where he is a well-known teacher of guitar and violin. -AP 
About 60 percent of u.s. dairy farmers would volun­teer to cut milk production 12 billion pounds and save the govern­ment nearly SI.5 billion annually, according to a survey. W.D. Knox, editor of the magazineHoard's Dairyman, said 62 percent of those surveyed in the West approved, as did 61 percent the north-central region, 62 percent in the Southwest, 65 percent in the Southeast and 51 percent in the Northea.St. The Voluntary InceA.tive Program, developed by a coalition of farm and dairy organizaions and milk plant operators, was introduced in Congress Feb. 17. The govern­ment spends S2.2 billion per year to buy and store surplus cheese, butter and nonfat milk powder. The support price for milk has been frozen at S13.10 per hundredweight for the last three years, but farm milk production has continued to climb. -AP 
Clouds this afternoon. High in mid to upper 50s. Becoming clear tonight. Low in mid 30s. Sunny tomorrow. High in mid to upper 50s. -AP 

So Long 4077th 
Design Editor.................. Col. Potter Small Design Assistant .................... Klinger Sapp Layout Staff. ................. assorted casualties Typesetters ........TrapperJim MacLennan, 
Hot Lips Rabbit News Editor.................... Nurse Able Doyle Copy Editor...................... Col. Blake Neely B&Tlayout ................. Col. FlaggKonrady Editorials Layout..... Nurse Baker Brown Sports Copy Editor. Sidney Friedman Sul­livan ND Day Editor...................... Sun-Lee Panfil SMC Day Editor......... Nurse Baker Brown Typists ........................... Sgt. Zale O'Connor 
Ad Design ......................... missing in action 
Photographer ............................. Igor White Guest Appearances .......... Father Mulcahy McGinn, Frank Burns Dziedzic, B.). Oak­ley, Spearchucker Glockner, Radar 
Bower 
'If Hawkeye's coming to dinner, don't seroe pressed chicken' 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 15 published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer I!; published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Marys Col· lege Subscnptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnting The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

The Observer Tuesday, March 1, 1983-page 3 





Survey provides evidence of waste· 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
Senior StaffReporter 
More than $42,000 will be wasted 
in food and labor this year at the 
Saint Mary's dining hall, according to 
a World Hunger Coalition survey. · 

Anne Gallagher and Maria Gschwind, education directors of the World Hunger Coalition, con­ducted the survey last semester to heighten student awareness ofwaste during Lent. 
The survey recorded whole, half or quarter portions of food and beverages that were discarded over one week. Labor involved in serving the wasted portions was added at minimum wage. Seven hundred dol­lars in labor will be wasted this year. 
"If anything, it's an underes­timate," said Gallagher, because of the volume of food purchased Gal­lagher cited that the survey did not include paper waste. 
Gallagher and Gschwind worked 

with Saga Food Service Manager 
Robert Luedtke to an:ive at the to­
tals. Luedtke priced a main course at 
42 cents a portion. 

"If food was purchased at retail it (the figure) would be three times that," Gallagher said. 
"You see full trays of untouched 
ByPATSAIN 

and MIKE WILKINS 
StaffReporters 
Representatives from various off­campus housing facilities will be available to answer questions concerning the availability, feasibility, and security of off­campus living at an open house today from 12-5 p.m. in LaFortune. 
The purpose ofthe open house is to provide students with informa­tion about off-campus housing op­portunities, according to Jorge Valencia, student government housing commissioner. 
Representatives from nearby apartment complexes such as Campus View, Castle Point, Park Jef­ferson, Turtle Creek, and Notre Dame apartments will attend, along with area homeowners with rooms for rent, Valencia said. 
Notre Dame Legal Services will answer questions about housing contracts and leases. In addition, a police officer will talk about the off­campus security situation. 
"The landlords and homeowners are really enthusiastic -they want to encourage people to move off campus," said senior Winnifred Fitzgerald, one of the organizers of the open house. 
Fitzgerald emphasized that the session will be informal, and that there will be no pressure on stu­dents to sign up. "The session is to encourage people, and let them 
know  what  landlords  and  
homeowners  are  offering,"  
Fitzgerald said.  

Lists ofoff-campus residences will also be available for students who are interested in renting rooms in homes rather than in apartment complexes. 
Father Michael Heppen, director of student residences, will explain the extended deadline for housing contracts. The new deadline, March 30, allows students to cancel their contracts without losing their deposits. 
There have been a number of recent cancellations, probably be­cause of the announcement of resi­dent assistant positions in many of the dorms, Heppen said. 
Heppen also said that he is sen­ding a letter to the hall rectors early fruit and Saga can't put it back out (because of health reasons)," said Gallagher. "We're all guilty ofit," she added. 

The coalition is posting the survey results in the dining hall to "make people aware of how wasteful they can be without even thinking about it," Gschwind said. 
"Because of our background, it's hard for us to realize that an apple is money," said Gallagher. "So many people would give their livesfor that food." 
Since the .problem of waste was addressed three years ago, waste has risen. "I don't know what the solu­tion is," Gallagher said, but she added "awareness is the key." 
"We're a little bit pampered," Gal­lagher said, because students do not pay for each meal at the door direct­ning military garb. See related story on page 4. 
ly. "We're not paying for it, so we (Photo by Tom White) f don't think about it. It's almost like 1 free food," she said. ' 
Ultimately, the Coalition would like to be able to convert awareness 
At Purdue and IU of waste into donations which they would distribute to local charities and food shelters. 
But Gallagher said, "We won't 


Cases of measles continue 
have money until we make people 
By LESLIEANNE WADE 
aware ofthe situation." 
News Staff 
Cases of measles have been reported at both Indiana University
Tenants provide info 
and Purdue University even after im­munization programs have begun on both campuses. Indiana University

at 0-C open house 
has reported 70 cases and Purdue 
this week highlighting the small has reported 15. number of incoming freshmen, be­Under the direction of Dr. James cause many juniors have elected to 
E. Bowes, public health officer in St. stay on campus next year. "We will Joseph County, both Notre Dame have far too many seniors in many of and ·Saint Mary's students have 
the halls next yea:-," Heppen stated. recieved invitations for immuniza­tion over the past two weeks. Al­
"Students who are evt:.. ~lightly though there have been no cases of 

considering moving off campus meas t les on either campus, Dr. 
should stop by LaFortune. It is an Bowes is pushing to have all stu­
easy way to find out about off­dents immunized before spring campus without much effort," said break. According to Dr. 
Ray Wise, student government Bowes,"There have been outbreaks 
publicity director. "There is an all­in Dade County, Florida, which is 
too-real threat ofa housing lottery." 
the Miami/Fort Lauderdale area, and 
"Living off campus is a good way I expect that a great number of our 
to get accustomed to living in the students will be headed down that 
real world," Student Body President way for break. It is very important 
Lloyd Burke pointed out. "I really that they are immunized before they 
enjoy living off-campus." leave campus." 

Engineering Coun£~il sponsors events week 
By WARREN BERRY which is able to hold the most News Staff weight in cards will be declared the winner. 
In conjunction with National Tommorrow's ·event is a speech Enginer;ring Week, the Notre Dame by Dr. John Lloyd about engineering Joint Engineering Council is opportunities in the medical field. sponsoring a campus Engineering The event is slated lor 7 p.m. in Week beginning today. Rovm 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. A ques­
The program is designed to allow tion and answer period will follow 
student engineers from all majors to Dr. Lloyd's biomedical engineering get acquainted with each other speech, and refreshments will be outside the classroom, and to give all served. Notre Dame students the oppor­
tunity to become familiar with the 
professors in the engineering cur­
riculum. 
"Many events have been planned 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 
for this week," said Sue Hoeslcher, a 
member of the Notre Dame Joint 
of~ 6'~~b
Engineering Council. "Both 
15 -y._S ~ 'T 
engineering and non-engineering 
Q~\~ '~1\1~ 
students are invited to participate in 
the activities, all of which are aimed 
20°/o OFF 

at disproving the old notion that en­
gineers are boring people." 
Good Man-Thurs onlv The Joint Engineering Council is 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 
holding a Structures Contest today 
w/Student I.D. 

at 4:30p.m. in Room 355 Fitzpatrick 
Offer not valid with any 
Hall. The contest features teams of 
other Aurelio's special .
four to five members· who are 
discount or coupon valid at
responsible for constructing a house 
S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 

of cards -computer cards, that is. Each team will receive 500 Bur­
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
roughs data . cards, and the house 
..,"'"

'""""'ultlll"t'" 2771111 4950 ''''Hili 
Between 3,000-4,000 students have been contacted by the Student Health Center to be immunized. As of today 433 have received shots. Another 400 contacted Bowes and updated their records. More will be immunized today and tomorrow. 
The clinic will be open at Notre Dame's student health center from 
8:30 a.m. to 4:30 a.m. today and tomorrow. Shots will also be given at Notre Dame on March 8 and 9 from 2:00p.m. to 6:30p.m.. 
Bowes notes that the wait is mini­mal. He says,"I've been timing the process from the minute a student walks in until the second he or she leaves. We seem to be averaging be­tween eight and 10 minutes." 
Saint Mary's students who need immunization or wish to update their records are invited to do so on Thursday, March 3 between 2:00 
p.m. and 6:30p.m. in the Saint Mary's infirmary. 
Any student with questions is en­couraged to contact Dr. Bowes at 284-9573. 
Buy 


Observer 
Classifieds 
The liT Advantages 
Management Education for Technological Change 
FfTil Computer based management education for the llU Financial, Producing and Service Industries. 
m A full-lime faculty of professional educators llU experienced in real world applications. 
FfTil Unique MBA specializations in Information llU Resources Management and Industrial Management. 
FfTil MBA specializations in Finance, Marketing, llU Accounting and Human Resources Management. 
FfTil Downtown at 77 South Wacker and Main Campus llU at 31st and State. Part-time and full-time admissions. 
Illinois Institute of Technology Dr. Nathan Keith, Assistant Dean 
··-
liT School of Business Administration 
10 West 31 Street, Chicago, IL 60616 312/567-5104
Ill 

liT an equal opportun1ty educator 
Please send more information on liT's MBA program to:
,-------------------------------------------, 
Name _________________________________________________ 
Street------------------~-----------------------------
Crty_____________________________ State_________ 
Zip Dayt1me Phone 2l 
L---··--------------------------------------­

The Observer Tuesday, March 1, 1983 -page 4 


continuedfrom page I 
consultants has been considered, but never sanctioned. According to 
Tyson, "Hesburgh wants it handled from the inside." "Every institution has its own 
• • • PACE 
continuedfrom page I 

tions through the Office of Business Affairs, goes to the Board ofTrustees for final approvals, and ultimately reports to Father Hesburgh. He calls the financial ship a "joint en­terprise." 
"At the present time we have a good balance she-:t," Father Joyce said about Notre Dame's financial situation. "Looking at the future, we obviously depend on raising outside money. This is absolutely essential for any private university that will prosper, or even exist." 
One problem FatherJoyce sees in the balance sheets is the competi­tion with public universities. "It's a great worry to me how long we can raise the tuition without pruning a lot ofyoungsters out of the market," he commented. 
Which gets back to the necessity of raising the endowment -the outside money on which Notre Dame thrives. One major objective 
. 

m the next few years, according to •• Joyce, will be to raise a scholarship endowment to help students come to Notre Dame. 
He cites tuition as the greatest source of income, with students paying about 80 percent of the cost of their education. The endowment, which Joyce and Hesburgh spend time raising from alumni and friends of Notre Dame, is another source, usually earmarked for specific use such as professorships or buildings. 
Bookstore profits are used to keep 
tuition down. Finally, funds raised 
'Goodbye, farewell, and amen' 




M*A*S*H.bows out amid parties 
"I have two papers coming due, and finals are coming," said Rob Skinner, a student at Michigan State University. "I love Alan Aida (Hawkeye) and 'M-A-S-H' is great. But graduation comes first." 
And the director of the Korean Cultural Service in New York City was glad the_the show's original run was ending. ·"It has been building a wrong image ofKorea and its people in the mind ofthe American public," said Tae-wan Yu. 
Erratum 
In yesterday's account of the sophomore class officer election The Observer wrongly attributed the suggestion of a "sophomore screw­your-classmate" to Mike Brigoli's ticket. Brigoli and his running mates have proposed a sophomore spirit week. 
series in television history. The=============================== "Who ShotJ.R.?" episode of"Dallas" in 1980 attracted 53.3 percent ofthe nation's TV homes and 76 percent of 
• • • Vice-president
the homes watching TV at the time. Ad agency executives predicted 
the "M-A-S-H" finale could attract 60 
NEW YORK (AP) -Hawkeye Pierce might blush at the sentimen­tality and hoopla surrounding the 
"M-A-S-H" farewell, but he would definitely raise a martini glass and 
join the nation in toasting the program's final episode. 
The long-running Korean War on television ended in a two-and-a-half­hour episode, enitled "Goodbye, Farewell and Amen," on CBS last night. 

It cost S40.77 to get into the "M­A-S-H" celebration at the Westin Hotel in Seattle, where celebrants could watch the last original episode on a giant screen, chow down on fried chicken, stew and chipped beef, and participate in look-alike contests depicting the "M-A-S-H" regulars. 
For 5450,000, advertisers could join the on-air party for "M-A-S-H" and reach what Madison Avenue an­ticipated would be close to the lar­gest audience for an entertainment percent to "70 percent of the tuned­in audience against ABC'sAmerican Gigolo and NBC's The Night the Bridge Fell Down, a TV movie that has been on the shelf for several years. 
"Our worry is that someone from a Nielsen home is going to go to one ofthese (parties) and the ratings will suffer," said Chuck Panama, a publicist for 20th Century Fox, the production company behind "M-A­S-H." 
The A.C. Nielsen Co.'s ratings measurements are based on sam­plings from homes equipped with monitoring devices. 
"I watch it every week and I'll watch the ending," said Kim Folan, a luncheonette worker from Lansing, Mich. "I watch reruns on cable at least once a day, sometimes three times a night." 
Not everybody, however, planned to watcq. 

from football and basketball are culture. Notre Dame is probably the usually generated back into strongest you are going to find -for maintaining non-revenue sports good or bad. I'm hesitant about such as intramurals and club sports, applying models (to Notre Dame)," Joyce said, with any leftovers going said Tyson. back into the "general fund." Vice President for Student Affairs 
Father John Van Wolvlear stresses 
"We are unlike most schools," the need for "overall not
Joyce said, "in that we don't have to 
piecemeal -plans." He noted thatspend a lot ofmoney on sports. They satellite social areas will be "more
(sports) have to be paid for by 
difficult to control" than a single stu­someone -usually by tuition fees. 
dent center and that a unified effort 

Notre Dame hasn't had to do that; is important. the net revenues (from football and The satellite centers plan is in its basketball) cover all the costs. If beginning stages. The renovation of football died it would pose a finan­Washington Hall is scheduled to cial problem." begin this summer. Thomas Leff, as­
sistant professor of communication Tomorrow, part 2 will feature and theatre, says the University in­Fatherjoyce's remarks on athletics tends to spend "som•:where in the at Notre Dame. vicinity of SI million" on the renovation. The plans include rearranging the rooms in the north 
wing, adding ateaching studio that also will be used for small ex­
Every Tuesday 
perimental productions, and a com­
night in the 
plete renovation, including new







Wild Wheel 
seating, for the main theatre and lob­
Terrace Lounge, 
by.
experience 
The renovation of other facilities, such as the engineering auditorium, are. also being discussed but plans 
Wild Wheel 
Crab Races! 

Crab Races/ 
are not official.

FREE Registration 
Many administrators mention the 
at 8:30 p.m. select a crab from our stable, and anxiously await importance of the central cluster to the overall plans. In a survey con-
the 9:00p.m. post time! Prizes will be awarded to the winners. 
Between races, drink discount prices will be spinning on our 
********************************** 
Wild Wheel! Wherever the wheel stops, that's the price for drinks during the next 15 minutes, as low as 50¢!_ 
D.C. CLUB 
Come out. of your shell at the Terrace Lounge every Tuesday for South Bend's only Wild Wheel Crab Races! 
SPRING BREAK BUS 
********************************** 
SIGN UP: TUESDAY, mARCH 1 
1Ci-11pm 
1st Floor Lafortune 


WASHINGTON D.C. ~;r~r 
S70.00round ttip. You must pay to reserve youiseat. 
First Come, First Serve 


ducted several years ago, 97 percent of students, faculty and ad­ministrators who n:sponded con­sidered LaFortune Student Center located in a "good" or "ideal" loca­tion on campus. 
Under the satellite system, Lafortune would be part of the central cluster. Director of Student Activities James McDonnell has proposed plans for the renovation of Lafortune but, according to O'Meara, "there is no big thrust for a renovation" ofthe student center. 
=============== 
... Network 
continuedfrom page I 
campus-wide to let the students know what's going on in the world and on campus. If the system works out really well we'll put them in the dining halls, the library, and the main circle, just to name a few." 
Technical problem~ have plagued the initial days of the broadcast cen­ter, causing Friday's United Press In· ternational news to be repeated throughout the weekend. "Once we get it running right again, we should be able to start up the daily campus update," said McDonnell. 
McDougal, on behalf of ENN, expressed that he was "absolutely delighted to be serving Notre Dame. Notre Dame has an international reputation of both the students and the faculty. 

The Observer Tuesday, March 1, 1983-page 5 

MCI offers service to campus dwellers 
ByTOMPACE The only other fixed cost is a News Staff monthly service fee. In the case of MCI, the fee is $5 for long distance MCI and ITT have hung up on the service during off-peak hours. Be­high price of Bell telephone service. cause of this fee, the service is not as 
Students can now take advantage profitible for those with low month­of up to 50 percent savings on their ly phone bills as it is for those with phone bills by switching to the bills of 1!20 or higher. service ofeither of the long distance Although the savings are most specialists. There are certain fixed welcome, especially for tight­costs involved, but after three or budgeted college students, there are four months with one of these long some drawbacks to the long dis­distance services, the initial invest­tance services. For instance, MCI on­ments will have been recovered in ly offers service to and from certain full. areas ofthe country. Ifa person does 
The most costly part of the switch not happen to live in one of those to MCI or ITT is the purchase ofthe areas, he is out ofluck. converter mouthpiece. The mouth­Also, MCI's lowest rate is a non­pieces range from $25 to $50, business hour rate. If a customer depending on the type and the place needs service during that time, he of purchase. must pay an additional charge. 
One type ofmouthpiece connects Many students have already to the phone in place of the original begun to reap the benefits of less equipment. The other is simply held costly service. Peter DiChiara, of up to the phone during a call. There Grace Hall, has cut his monthly are advantages to both, .but most phone bill in halfwith MCI's service. people prefer the piece which con­"There are some shortcomings such nects to the phone because it is as increased static on the line and easier to handle once the call has limitations on where you can call, been placed. These pieces can be but overall it's great because it saves obtained at any of the phone or my roommates and rne a lot of electronics stores in the area. money." 
Indiana measles woes 
•

cont1nue on campuses 
(AP) Indiana's measles Health said two confirmed cases of problems expanded this week as measles had been reported in Fort health officials prepared for a Wayne, on the opposite side of the second generation ofthe disease and Hoosier state from IU and Purdue initiated vaccination programs at 21 where the outbreak started. of Indiana' t s 65 college campuses, Those two victims recently said Dr. Robert Kim-Farley of the visited relatives on the university Center for Disease Control in At­campuses. lama. The IU campus at Bloomington 
Unofficial tallies have 87 cases of has been the hardest hit. measles reported around the state in Medical authorities have con­the past two weeks. firmed 67 cases since the outbr.eak 
Kim-Farley, who is in was identified there on Feb. 11, said Bloomington to help monitor the Kim-Farley. outbreak, and other health officials Eighteen were noted at Purdue fear the upcoming spring break will and two at Butler University. spread the disease far beyond the The concern has touched off an­200,000 Hoosier college students other wave ofimmunizations. and into the general population. In Fort Wayne, 1,000 doses of 
"With spring break beginning at vaccine were made available for im­Purdue on March 4, and Indiana Uni­munizations and another round of versity on March 11, it is important vaccinations started at IU on Mon­that physicians around the country day. be alert to the possibility of measles Students susceptible to the two­in these students as they travel," week or old-fashioned measles are 
Kim-Farley said. those who were given shots of There has already been some spil­vaccine before 1969. That was a lover into the community. weaker vaccine an,d did not provide 
Greg Pearson ofthe State Board of permanent immunity. 
WASHINGTON (AP) Military planners are working on a proposal that would help Israel safeguard its northern frontier against terrorists while minimizing the dangers to a bolstered -possibly doubled ­force of American troops in Lebanon, Pentagon sources said yes­terday. 
A key element ofthe concept, said to be favored by some members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, calls for using U.S. reconnaissance planes and perhaps pilotless drones to watch for infiltrators moving through southern Lebanon toward Israel. 
Such aircraft are equipped with sensors that work day and night. 
"We should take advantage ofour technology and do the things we do best," said one source who noted that the use of reconnaissance aircraft and ground sensors could reduce the need for potentially dan­
gerous toot and Jeep patrols by troops. 
President Reagan said last week that "t~is administration is prepared to take all necessary measures to guarantee the security of Israel's northern borders in the aftermath of the complete withdrawal of the Is­raeli Army" from Lebanon. 
Reagan, a day later, said that "we would be willing to enlarge the mul­tinational forces .. .in consultation with our allies ...until Lebanon is ready to take over the protection of its own borders." 
Some members of Congress said Reagan would encounter trouble on Capitol Hill if that meant a "major commitment" ofAmerican troops in Lebanon beyond the I,200 Marines now on duty in the Beirut area as part ofthe multinational peacekeep­ing force. 
Under the plan envisioned at the Pentagon, there could be some ex­pansion in the peacekeeping contin-

will begin today and work on the exterior will begin March 12. (Photo by Tom White) 
Long ivy road 


Senate proposes lighting 
By TIM BUCKLEY 
News Staff 
In what was termed its "shortest meeting of the year," the Student Senate met last night at LaFortune Center. After announcing that there were no minutes from the last meeting, the unfinished business from that meeting was recalled. 
Concerning the constitutional changes proposed at the last meeting, all are still under con­sideration at the individual dor­mitory level and are capable of passing. Voting has yet to take place in St. Edward's, Walsh, and Pangborn halls. 
The order ofbusiness then turned to senato.rial commentary on the PACE report. However, this subject was also discarded because of a lack of topical discussion. The Senate resolved to postpone its comments until able to discuss the subject at length. The floor was then opened to new business. 
Off-Campus Chairman Bill Colleran introduced a resolution concerning the possible installation oflighting along Ivy Road. 
Resolution 116 states "this road is heavily travelled at night by Notre Dame students, especially those residing in the Campus View Apart­ments. Whereas many students travel on bikes or by foot ...this situation poses a serious security 
Planes, drones 

U.S. offers to protect Lebanon 1 

Corby's
-gem, but U.S. soldiers would remain away from the sensitive southern Lebanese border. Still, they would be in position to aid quickly other multinational force units in dealing with guerrilla bands. 

Troops forming such a U.S. "quick reaction" force could be drawn from Army paratrooper units and sent to serve in Lebanon along with the 1,200 Marines already in the Beirut area, said the sources who discussed the proposal on condition they remain anonymous. 
The sources said the joint chiefs want to hold down U.S. troop num­bers with an upper limit of about double the present level. 
Defense Secretary Caspar Wein­berger has suggested that one "interim" step could involve placing a number of Lebanes•~ army units in southern Lebanon, accompanied by "additional trainers." 
problem." 
The resolution proposes that "a Campus Life Council Task Force be esablished to investigate pos­sibilities ofalleviating this danger." 
This area, as it is outside the South Bend city limits, could be lighted either through Notre Dame or through the county of St. Joseph, or through a cooperative venture be­tween the two. 
The resolution was immediately put to a vote, passing unanimously. The bill will now be presented to the Campus Life Council at its next meeting on Mar. 6. 
In other new business, senior John Eichenlaub submitted the­name of junior Julie Vormezeele as student body treasurer for the 1983­84 academic year. She was approved unanimously and will take over the post in April. The floor was then turned over to announcements. 

On the subject of the impending housing lottery, the Hall Presidents Council welcomes input as to how the lottery should be conducted. There is no traditional system to use, as a housing lottery has not been necessary in the past. 
Applications for student cabinet positions are being accepted this week. Each dormitory president will be issued five applications for dis­tribution. Additional applications and information are available in the student government offices. 

"TuesdQy Night SpeciQI" 
Heineken Draft ....... Sl.OO 

Business & Technology_Tu_esda..:...;...._y,M_arch_,;,_l,19_83_,:_pa.:;;,...._ge6 
EconomicUpdate 
The United Steelworkers union reached a 
tentative agreement with seven top steelmakers yesterday on a con­
cessionary contract aimed at preventing the faltering industry from 
losing more business to foreign competitors. Terms ofthe pact were 
not immediately made public. But union sources who asked not to 
be identified told The Associated Press the proposal included pay 
cuts of about $1.20 per hour, the loss ofone day's holiday per year, 
the loss ofone week's vacation per year and the transfer ofmoney for 
the vacation to a special fund for unemployed steelworkers. The 
pact also includes certain language on reinvestment of industry profits into modernizing plants and equipment, an important point for the union, sources said. James McGeehan, a union executive board member, said the board was to recommend acceptance ofthe pact by the USW's Basic Steel Industry Conference, composed of local presid.ents who have the power to ratify tentative contracts. The announcement of the proposed settlement came less than 12 hours before an informal midnight deadline set by both sides. The current three-year agreement expires on Aug. 1. -AP 
Wall StreetUpdate 
The stock market backed away from last week's record highs as gold and energy issues led stock prices lower yester­day. American Telephone & Telegraph, the nation's most widely held stock, was another prominent loser on word of the company's plans for a new stock offering. The Dow Jones average ·of 30 in­dustrials, up 28.12 last week, dropped 8.32 to 1,112.62. Volume on the Big Board slowed to 83.75 million shares from 100.97 million Friday. Blue-chip losers included International Business Machines, off 1.25 at 99.5; Texas Instruments, down 4.5 to 156.5; Ford Motor, off 1.25 at 38.5, and United Technologies,. down 1.5 at 66. Nationwide turnover in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 98.35 million shares. Standard & poor's index of 400 in­dustrials lost 2.11 to 166.24, and S&P's 500-stock composite index was down 1.68 at 148.06. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index dropped 4.83 to 373.20. The NASDAQ com· posite index for the over-the-counter market closed at 260.67, off 
1.77. -AP 

·l®il-i!l!IBl._i®IIDR·~~~ I 1 I t ill •sffll IUSIIII, 
Stub€Tlts 1n ~ 
8USIO€SS, SCJ€nC€ & i €n(ji0€€RIO(j: lnt€R€St€b In WRJttnq
I 

j asout b€Velopm€Tlts ; 
10 YOUR ~1€lb? 
1 ~~so, Gall atex j. 
L,_,___,~£:5~~ J 
'IIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIMIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIII 
_~ ~Dflumwru eJrulnnm ~HE-OLO"Y~ 
.......... ····-·-······.....................
.-.-..-· 

.m~.~~--t~~..m~J2~ 
.... 

6:30 •· 7:30 pm 
Room 102 Room 102, O'Shag Refreshments 
For further information contact: 
Prof. Ellen Weaver or Prof. Eugene Gorski, C.S.C. 
L..-HIH-IHIII~~~~~~~2£:~!!~~:..?~1!111111111HIIII~IIIHHHII' 
Space shuttle 
Challenger's third engine defective 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­Space shuttle Challenger's third engine has the same defect that was found over the weekend in No. 2, and a further delay in its maiden launch is certain since both engines must be removed and repaired, NASA said yesterday. 
The same type of hydrogen line crack which had earlier been detected on the spaceplane's No. 2 engine was discovered on the No. 3 engine over the weekend. 
Officials of the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion said they would try to repair both motors at Kennedy Space Cen· ter, but they said there was little hope of meeting the latest launch date of March 19 or 20. That date was already two months later than originally scheduled. NASA tech· nicians got an unexpected day offso they would be "fresh and alert" when they start removing the defective engine from the delay­plagued space shuttle Challenger, a space agency spokesman says. 
NASA officials gave technicians Sunday off, pushing back the removal of a second defective engine from the spacecraft. 
"They (technicians) have been 
working very hard for quite awhile 
in finding the engine problem and to 
ensure that they're fresh and alert 
we thought they should have some 
rest," said Hugh Harris, a Kennedy 
Space Center spokesman. 
The latest problem is a leak in a 
cracked hydrogen line leading to a 
component called an augmented 
spark igniter. The igniter triggers the 
burning of oxygen and hydrogen 
propellants during launch. 
With one engine already off the three-engi:Ie shuttle, the newest problem could mean a launch postponement beyond March 20, a date already two months behind schedule. 
But the National Aeronautics and of a hairline crack that permitted Space Administration said it could gaseous hydrogen to escape into the not immediately determine how tail-section engine compartment. long the Challenger might be That difficulty was compounded grounded. by a faulty replacement engine. An­
"We really don't know what effect other leak was discovered in its heat it'll have on the launch date," Harris exchanger before the engine could said late Sunday. "That's because we be mounted on the spacecraft. 
haven't decided what procedure Engineers are still waiting for an­we'll use to fix the cracked tube." other engine as a replacement for 
The discovery of the leak Friday the No. 1 engine, and it is expected came three weeks after Challenger's to arrive at Kennedy Space Center No. I engine was removed because b toda . 
Price ofgold drops 
510 
500 
490 
480 
470 
460 
450 
440 

The price ofgold tumbled $42. 70 a troy ounce to !1400.50 on the Commodity Exchange in New York, bringing its losses to more than $100 in the past week. At the beginning of the year, gold started at $453.90, and has continued to rise throughout the year until these past two weeks. The graph shows the rise ofgold prices throughout this year, with increases of $35, 13, 15, !17, and then decreases of !13 and !160 on week-end prices. The drop of !142. 70 came from Friday's price of !1442.50. The loss of !1100 is the combined loss ofprices during the week ofFebruary 20. 
FASB 
Postgraduate internship awarded 
By NORLIN RUESCHHOFF 
Accountancy Department Chairman 
In 1982, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB) instituted a postgraduate internship program designed for individuals planning a business or academic career with an emphasis in accounting. 
The Financial Accounting Stan· dards Board is the primary account­ing standards setting body ir. the United States. The body was es­tablished in 1972 by the United States accounting profession in or­der to establish and improve stan­dards of financial accounting and reporting in the United States. The Federal Government's Securities Ex­change Commission cooperates with and supports the standards promulgated by the FASB. 
At a meeting before a group ofac­
countancy junior, seniors, and 
faculty held in the Hayes-Healy Cen­
ter last Thursday afternoon, 
representatives ofFASB outlined the 
activities of the Board. Jack Lorenz, 
the Board's Human Resources 
Manager, spoke on the organization­
al structure, pointing out its unique 
position as a private-sector standard­
setting body sanctioned and sup­
ported by the Securities Exchange 
Commission. 
The Board is financed by the 
Financial Accounting Foundation 
which obtains funds from contribu­
tions of industrial corporations and 
public accounting firms. No one 
firm or corporation has a significant 
influence on the policies of the 
Foundation or the Board. 
The responsibility of the Human Resources Manager is to establish a comprehensive human resources program for the Board's research and technical activities staff. 
Within the comprehensive program is the newly inaugrated FASB Postgraduate Internship. Offi­cially announced at the meeting is that Anthony Glenn Thomas, a senior accountant, has been named one offive interns appointed for the fiscal year 1983-1984. 
During the next year, Tony Thomas will become acquainted with the standard-setting process, including the role .played by preparers, auditors, and users of financial information in the forma­tion ofaccounting standards. He will be expected to participate in analysis ofcomment letters received in response to proposed new stan­dards and interprestations, in review and analysis of published research, in preparation of memoranda to the Board on technical issues, and in the review and evaluation ofaccounting proposals ofother organizations. 
In addition, he will be privileged to attend and occasionally par­ticipate in meetings ofthe Board and its task forces. In making the an­nouncement, FASB Human Resources Manager Lorenz states: "This appointment should be viewed not only as a compliment to Tony, but also to school and program." 
Anthony Thomas is an honor stu­dent at Notre Dame. He has been in· itiated in both the Beta Alpha Psi honorary accounting fraternity and the Beta Gamma Sigma honorary business society. In 1982 he was granted an Ernst & Whinney accounting award for outstanding scholarship. 
Further, he received one of the prestigous national Arthur Carter scholarships sponsored through the American Accounting Association. 
Apple introduces computer 
John Couch, vice-president of Apple Computers, Inc., will demonstrate Apple's most ambitious project -the new Li~a computer ­tomorrow at 4 p.m. at the CCE auditorium. 
Couch directed the Lisa project, a three-year undertaking which has produced an office market com­puter publicized as four times faster than the Apple 11 and taking only an 
hour ofthe user's time to learn.  ·  
Couch's  explanation  and  
demonstration  of  Lisa  will  be  

followed by a question and answer session. Additional seating will be available in two room!> outside ofthe auditorium where the presentation can be viewed on monitors. A limited number oftickets to a recep­tion following the presentation are available at no charge by calling 239­5382 or 239-6415. 

Editorials 
Tuesday, March 1, 1983-page 7 
Race and racism in Chicago • 
NEW YORK CllY-So a black candidate beat out two Irish, and America's second lar­gest city joins Atlanta, Detroit and Los An­geles, and Chicago will be run by a black mayor. Harold Washington's victory ex­presses the passion of his own people for justice and equality, but he is also politically 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 

seasoned and knowledgeable, and basically centrist, and he will work well within a larger black-white consensus. 
-There was an element of upset but little of mystery about Washington's victory. He got 84 percent of the vote in the heavily black South Side districts, and 60 percent even in the multiracial West Side usually dominated by the city machine. He won because black leaders saw their chance in a three-way vote and got their cohorts, uniting behind him solidly while the other two candidates split the vote between them. 
There is nothing wrong with this. It is the way the game is played and black leaders have learned the game. It works in the large inner cities where there are heavy concentrations of black voters, but not in state elections; wit­ness Tom Bradley's defeat last year in Califor­nia. 
Does this mean we are in for ethnic politics? In the sense that ethnic consciousness will play a large role, yes. Inevitably it will be the ethnic minorities who carry that conscious~ ness like a burning city within their hearts and memories.. 
"We Won" was the headline in the Defen­der, Chicago's black newspaper, the day after the victory. The "We" was the blacks. Most students ofpolitics know that what motivates the organizers of political victory is not love or faith or charity but hostility and fear. In this case it was the rankling sense ofinjustice that blacks still carry in their hearts even after the victories ofcivil rights. 
The statistics are cheerless. The jobless rate for blacks is not 10 percent but somewhere around 2 5 percent, for black youth close to SO percent. One can debate the whys for built-in "structural"· unemployment, and they may turn on readiness and education more than on justice. But the sense of injustice is there, and it operated to bring out the black vote. 
If race is a factor in elections, there is no room for racism. Bernard Epton, the Republican candidate (who has no chance in the coming election), spoke out emotionally against the idea that he might get votes be­cause he is white. Inevitably, it will happen, human nature being what it is. It happened in California with the "hidden" anti-black vote against Tom Bradley for governor. But it makes no sense morally. 
Historically one understands and forgives -the prideful ethnic consciousness of minorities who have been the insulted and ""'~"! injured, while not forgiving the hostile ethnic consciousness of the majority race, fearful of losing its power. This may seem one-sided but that's how it is if you take the long historical view.· 
So Harold Washington will become Chicago's mayor in April, and America will again have shown the resilient capacity of a democracy to absorb its discontented minorities and make them part of the system and give them their chance at governing. 
Ifanything can "heal" the divisions in a mul­tiracial city like Chicago it is the circulation of ethnic groups as the political managers of the · city. 
(c) 1983. Los Angelts Times Syndicarc 
2000-year psychology 

DearEditor: 
Thank you for the editorial "The Church 
and birth control" in your Monday, Jan. 24, 
1983 issue. )an. 24 was my birthday and I 
read your editorial on my 24th wedding an­
niversary. -This editorial awakened in me 
even more the beauty ofGod's laws on mar­
riage and birth ofchildren. 
jesus, our God has given us two beautiful 
laws: 
1. 
love God our creator, and 

2. 
love all his children that He creates. 


Birth control ofany kind rejects both His laws by not recognizing God as creator of life and love ofchildren. 
How I thank our Popes through the cen­turies for standing by God's laws in a Godless world! How I pray now that our present Pope john Paul II will speak out for love of God and children against the inftltration of human "natural birth control" in the church! How I pray that Notre Dame in its psycholo­gy departmerit will show the beauty ofGod's laws regarding "human sexuality" rather than the exploited experimental sex that they have presented their students through Godless psychology books! St. Paul's first let­ter to the Romans 2000 years ago can be applied to our Godless sex ridden psycholo­
gy today. 
I thank Mother Mary. the mother of the Catholic church for helping her sons over the centuries to reject the ink of public opinion against God's laws of creation and love. Thank you for arousing me on my 24th wedding anniversary to think of God's great creative power oflove for us and His created children. 
Mrs. johnnie Cancelarich 
"His wife"? 
DearEditor: 
It seems rather odd that you would run a photograph (in Feb. 28 issue) of the Woman's Advisory Council lecture on "the integration of a woman's career with her family," then list Dr. Teresa Phelp's career as "his wife." 
You might have mentioned that Dr. 
----~-------­

P. 0. BoxQ 
Phelps has her Ph.D. in English and teaches legal writing at the Notre Dame Law School. 
james A. Zarzana English Department 
Poor joke 
DearEditor: 

I object to the insults directed by your as­sistant news editor toward the human beings who maintain Notre Dame's campus. In anticipation of the typical adolescent male's response, "What's the matter, can't ya take a joke?" I conclude with the statement that working men and women should not be the butt ofjokes by children who pretend to be journalists. 
Kevin M. Rooney 
Innocents 
DearEditor: 

I am writing this article in response to the editorial entitled, "The challenge to be pro­choice." In this article, the author touches on many points without really treating the essential question at the heart of the abor­tion issue. 
From the dawn of western civilization to the present, the question of abortion has centered around whether the fetus in the mother's womb is a human being or not. This is the real question. If the fetus is not a human being, then there is no problem. It is just like pulling teeth; Go ahead. they are your teeth. 
If one admits that the fetus might be a human being at some stage in its fetal development, then even the remotest pos­sibility of there being human life present calls for the protection of this life. For ex­ample, if one was hunting and saw move-_ ment behind a bush, he would not shoot until he was certain ofwhat he was killing. 
From the time of the ancient Greeks and their Hippocratic Oath until recent years, the fetus has been considered a human being. Our century, which has witnessed more carnage ofhuman life than any century in the history of mankind, has chosen to reject this. To kill innocent human beings "to better the human race" is no different than killing innocent human beings to en­hance economic conditions as in japan or to foster the mental and emotional health of mothers as it is in our country. 
Tom Mcloughlin Cavanaugh Hall 
Vote "Yes" 

DearEditor: 
A few weeks ago, there was a big­headlined article in the Indianapolis Star, Indiana's largest newspaper, stating that a vast majority of Notre Dame students had voted against a nuclear freeze resolution. The article made no mention of the distinc­tion between that particular unilateral freeze resolution on which you voted and the better known bilateral freeze resolution which has been promoted nationwide. Father Hesburgh is very much in favor ofthe bilateral freeze· resolution like the one which is on today's class officer election bal­lot, and he has been warring diligetttly on the international level to halt the nuclear arms race. 
Having been a part of the Notre Dame community for many years, I believe that the majority of Notre Dame students. 
"conservative" and "liberal" alike, also sup­port the bilateral freeze resolution. I would like to see another article in theStar, as well as in other papers across the country, proclaiming the freeze's victory, rather than defeat, at Notre Dame. I urge you students to support strongly an "immediate, bilateral, and mutually verifiable freeze" to halt the nuclear arms race and to vote "yes" on the freeze resolution today. 
Br. BillMewes, CSC State Coordinator ofthe Indiana NuclearFreeze Campaign 
Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subject to editing. 

.I  
Editorial Board  DepartmentManagers  
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN46556 The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and a.~ objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, &nd thefree expression ofvarying opinionsonf'lmpus, through letters, is encouraged. (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes E:recutive News Ettitor ..............David Dziedzic SMCExecutive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ............................Joe Musumeci Photo Editor...................................Rachel Blount  BusinessManager.............................Tony Aiello Contro!l~ .............................................Eri~ Sc~ulz AdverttsmgManager.......................Chns O!Wen ,Production Manager..................Maura Mutphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Mrouo Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakley Founded November 3, 1966  

Sj)orts=~==r=i=~~~S========================-=Tu=es=da=y,~IM=Mc=h=I,=I9=s=3==pa=ge=s
By The Obseruer and The Associated Press 
Windsurfing lessons will be given today on the 
simulator. The lessons start at 4:00 p.m. in between Stepan and Grace Hall. If there are any questions, call WiND 1 584. -The Ob­server • 
TheJ.V. lacrosse team will hold an organizational meeting for anyone interested in playing for the team this spring on Thursday at 4:30 in the ACC Auditorium. If you cannot attend, call Austin Henry at 1025 or Rich O'Leary at 239-5108. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Club will hold a 
meeting on Thursday in the LaFortune ballroom at 7:00p.m. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will 
be holding its first club happy hour this Friday from 4-6 at Senior Bar. Free drinks will be provided for club members. Any friends, roommates, etc. are also welcome. It will be a good opportunity to get weightlifting insight in a casual atmosphere. Ifthere are any ques­tions, call Matt Kelleher at 1581 or Pat Toole at 6877. -The Ob­server 
Bookstore Basketball registration will be held Sunday, March 6 at 3 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. Deatai!s of the registration process will appear in Friday's Observer. -The Observer 
Prospective cheerleaders take note. There will be an organizational meeting for those interested in trying out for the 1983-84 squad today, at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. ­The Observer 
The Notre Da.-ne trackteam is trying to send some ofits members to the Domino's Pizza Relays in Tallahassee March 18 and 19. Florida State is hosting the meet, and Domino's in So.uth Bend is trying to help send them. With a contribution coupon which has appeared in The Observer, students can earmark a dollar when they purchase a pizza for the purpose of sending the athletes to Florida. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be meeting today at 8 p.m. in Saint Ed's Chapel. All are invited. 
-The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will hold an important meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. at Caron Court, LaFortune. The fate of the spring season will be deCided. Absence will be interpreted as a NO vote. If there are any questions, call John .at 6837. -The Ob­server. 
An Tostal Innertube Water Polo signups will be on Sunday, March 6. There is a minimum of seven players, including two girls, per team. Teams may not have more than two water polo players and one varsity athlete, or two varsity athletes. ­The Observer 
Koch wins rain-delayed Doral Open 
MIAMI (AP) -Gary Koch 

slammed the door on any potential 
challengers with a two-under-par 70 
and coasted to a five-stroke victory 
yestc::rday in the rain-delayed win­
dup of the Doral-Eastern Open Golf 
Tournament. 
It was, said Ed Fiori, who finished 

second, simply no contest this sun­
ny, windy day. 
"Gary just outplayed us going out. He only missed one shot and I was seven or eight shots down by then and it didn't matter," Fiori said. "We were never in contention." 
Koch, who hadn't won for five years, established a four-stroke lead in Saturday's third round, then had to wait through a day's rainout before attempting to defend that lead. 
He defended it well. No one got close over the final 18 holes. His margin was as high as se~·en shots at one time and he coasted home. · 
The Observer w111 accept classifieds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
However. classtfteds to appear tn the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to Insertion. All class1freds must be prepaid. 
e1ther tn person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
LOST· N.D B1llfold w1th my I D. cards. BOSTON or MAINE: Do you have space MEESHI MIKE KAlATA. license and detex 1n 1!. On Fnday between m your car? I need a nde there for spnng MEESHI CONGRATULATIONS on gett1ng ac­
NOTICES TICKETS
N1ewland and the Ma1n Circle If found. MEESHI
break. Call8857. cepted! please call Jan1ce at 1336. 
Love, Need nde to NJ or NYC. Can leave 3/10. Kathy
Need 4 Dayton T1ckets Please call t 700 
Karen 284·5338 after 11 p m TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 FOUND Two different sets of keys. One 
Career information for Government majorstommorrow at 4:15p.m. in 103 O"Shag. Sponsored by the Placement set lound on South Quad near Cush1ng 
Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car, Friday two weeks ago On Amencan Express Bureau. Don"t miss it FENWICK produces SOCIAL RETARDS noon til Monday noon $29.95 Includes Key nng. Other set found about two RIDERS NEEDED TO MEMPHIS TENN JOB BANK 
150 free miles. Sales tax & Insurance weeks ago near Badin Hall. On metal nng; OR UTILE ROCK ARK FOR SPRING FOR A NECTAR YEAR: WRITE IN ATIN: All NEW ENGLANDERS'!' Con­extra. Phone Rob for reservations 259-possibly Hall Staff keys. If yours. call and BREAK CALLJOY 1318 necticut Club IS again offenng an exc1t1ng
8459. 1dent1fy them. Call M1ke at x t 1404 Job Bank Job open1ng at Trans-World CALIFORNIAN ON MARCH 1 FOR JR. Art1sts selling t1ckets over lhe phone for a 
CLASSless OFFICERS. and fun-filled bus nde back for spr1ngNEED 1 OR 2 RIDES TO B HAM break. Cost IS $90 and stops are 1n F au­Country Western show A separate JObTYPING ALABAMA FOR SPRING BREAK CALL f1eld and Hartford. Bnng money to s1gn
FOUND: Girl's watch outside North dehvenng these ttckets IS also open. For VOTE NO TO BORING, UNI­
Jack1e Boggs PATTY 284·5018 MAGINATIVE CAMPAIGNS: WRITE IN ups on Mon . Feb.28, f1rst floor La Forune.

Dining Hall on the 16th. Call 2905. 1nfo call 288· 7403 and ask for Wayne or L1nda Barnett CALIFORNIAN FOR CLASS OF '85 OF­6-7pm FIRST COME. FIRST SERVE. 
684-8793 Need nders ONE WAY to Md /DC area. 

FICERS. 

leav>ng Wed .Mar 9. Andy. 1246 Need A1de To Connecticut For Spnng
TYPING WANTED 277-8534 6-10 PM M· Large Need an aggress1ve person ro work on a BOSTON BUS FOR SPRING BREAK Break. W1ll Share Usual Please Call Dan 
F. ALL DAY WKNDS. $REWARD$ LOVELY LASS needs nde to In· commtsston basts, here on campus SIGNUPSMONDAY. FEB 28. 7pm at x6824 ·for the return or whereabout., of HP·t tC d1anapolls tor spnng break Can leave S1nger Gen Ttre,Tnc IS mterested 1n such LAFORTUNE UTILE THEATRE $50ATIN: ALL NEW ENGLANDERS!!! calculator taken from a blue backpack at Wed . March 9 If you re go1ng my way. a person For 1nfo call Tom Shanahan at DEPOSIT REQUIRED LEAVES THE
Connecticut Club IS agatn otfenng an SMC D1mng Hall Thur. n1ght. 2-24. No call L1sa at 3882 291-4616 Job opemng at W1ll1ams Home 11th ??CaiiM,ke277-3276orJohn 1532 exc1t1ng and fun-ftlled bus nde back tor Center 10 sales and stock For 1nfo call
questions asked Has Personal Value.­spnng break Cost IS $90 and stops re 1n Piease call Kim -4176 HELP! Have hotel room 1n Ft Lauderdale Greg R1chards at 291 ·8500 Job open1ng To Jane Panzeca. Fairfield and Hartford. Bnng money to ·need roommates to spilt room costs Call at W1iliams Home Center 1n N1les Part· To th1s new A A I wtsh all the success stgn ups on Mon . Feb.28. ftrst floor La Kev1n or T1m at 3537 t1me work needed 1n sales and stock For 1n the world 
Of course. tf you·ve got any real class 
like all real Californians do. you w111 bend SERVE. 
Fortune. 6·7pm FIRST COME. FIRST >nlo. call Deb K1efer at 683·2700 Love. Preppy 
ave backwards to see that none of ac­NEED RIDE TO ROCHESTER. NY FOR
FOR RENT 
quaintances wtll vote for these four
SPRING BREAK CAN LEAVE ON ATIENTION SOPHOMORES 
pseudo-smeds Show some class and
MARCH 10 OR MARCH 11 PLEASE There's a vote coming up to vote forANY EXTRA GRAD TIX? W1ll pay$ Call tgnore the ·californian.. tiCket They are
CALL MIKE: 8265 your class officers. Do you really care? an embarassment to the Golden State Tom 288-5871 
House 4 bedroom. near NO. $250 per We all know it's just a resume building 
mo Fall or summer No ullhttes Phone I need nde (one-way) to Saratoga lob. So why take it seriously. That's 
(319)322-8735 Patty Spnngs. N Y (or VICinity) Can leave why we're running for those offices. 
I PERSONALS I 
DC CLUB SIGN·UPS FOR THE 

RICHAHu PAXTON lOVES BABY SPRING BREAK BUS ARE TUESDAY 
noon. Mar t 1 Call Pat t 884 We're the Californian t1cket We senous
BOSTON BUS SIGNUPS Monday 7. SHEEP'! MARCH 1 FROM 10-11 PM. FIRST 
APTS NEAR NO FOR RENT UTilS PO about not takrng thrs whole thrng senous­
Lafortune$ t t 0 round tnp 1ncl refresh FLOOR LAFORTUNE FIRST COME. 
LESS GAS PH 2720261 I need nde to Ph1lly. NYC. Ballo. or DC ly A vote tor us 1S a vote for you. the real 
MARYA G Surpnsel! Yes. a personal for
lor break. Must leave Wednesday 3/09 sopnomores of Notre Dame. not a vote torFIRST SERVE $70 00 ROUND· TRIP 
I 
All nght That"s 11 I m llred of bonng Per· you! Just wanted to tell you that you re the YOU MUST PAY WHEN YOU SIGN UP 
4 bdrm furntshed house, near campus Call Will ·8659 JUS! those beaut1ful people Nho like run­
sonals pages Are you? W~,could bnng best s1ster anyone could have!! Hope you 
On Notre Dame Ave Good conditiOn 9 ntng tor such stuptd offtces dnd put out
back moose JOkes. bul they re pretty nave a very Happy Birthday! WE MISS
mo lease $335 per mo Call 684-0933 garbage on all the th1ngs they II do when 
moostenous Elkhart JOkes were tun. but YOU!!
(local call) we all know tt's a joke 
you can only lake so much of Hoos1er Love, Ltsa & Ttm · VOLUPTUOUS BLONDE needs a nde humor Do you have a good 1dea lor fflrtlle 
II LOST/FOUND I 

FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT home to the M>nn-St Paul area for spnng mtnds? lf so. send them tn to · ST ED S HOOPS TEAM & PETER T 
SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO 277-break If you·re go1ng my way, call Sue at Coach B1ll Beck and the Grace Hall Bas·
Moose Control Thanks tor lett1ng me be a part of 11 th1s
3604 2170. ketbaiiTeam 
LOST NO CLASS RING( 83). NAME P.O. BoxQ year You re great You boys been good Congratulations on w1nn1ng theNotre Dame IN, 46556 tome
INSIDE. BLUE STOME. LOST POSSIB­FURNISHED TWO ROOMS. PRIVATE champ•onsh1p! You re the best!
A1de Needed to I U weekend of March 4 
or to The Observer via campus mail. HALL). LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND UTILITIES PAID 277-3604 
LY AT SMC(MOREAU-O"LAUGHLIN ENTRANCE MALE PREF All call Jerry 6756 FING Love.
And remember. only you can prevent 
Your no. 1 fan OF t/28-t/30. BIG REWARD$$$ OF­FQr Junior Class Officers
Personals burnout. 
WANTED need one RIDER to come back FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO FOR RENT NOW · 2 or 3 Bedroom. Full WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN l YONITES Plant tomorrows seeds
from HOUSTON. TEXAS to NO Will be PLEASE CALL 283-3346 Bath. Yard. Partly furn1shed $185 $70 return1ng on Bllher the 18\h or the 19th of WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN 1oday Vote ANNIE AND FITZ 
Thanks for shanng your real b·day w1th
Ut111t1es Deposrt $200 Ott Portage 289-March W1ll spilt the usual costs. Call WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN I To the person who removed my blue Or-1687 WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN C eta1t run qu1 parle franca1s
my ··take · one! Cei· ebrate! Love. me Rosemary at 6858 or Kelly at 6715 
game Chemistry notebook from the South WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN D1n1ng Hall on Fnday, Feb 1t. between 1 WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN HEY CAliFORNIANS. DA MOB DONT
Need RIDE to Phladelph1a or W1im1ngton: Karla Pajor was here
1 & t :30pm, I would apprec1ate 1ts lm-(and vote no to stupid class cam­LIKE PUNKS TRYING TO MAKE A
De area for spnng break Please call Man 7374
1 nc~d1ate return. 1"11 be glad to let you bor-paigns!) MOCKERY OF OUR FINE 1 row 11 some t1me when I don't need 1t! My So cast a vote th1s year that you·ve al­DEMOCRATIC PROCESS name and number IS on 11 so call me! ways wanted to cast Vote Californian.
Need nde to MINNESOTA for spnng
WANTED JPW proofs on display Fn Feb 25. Mon
But you'll have to wnte us in s~nce those LOST PAIR OF SILVER FRAMED electton people wouldn t pnnt our name Feb 28 · Wed Mar 2 1n South Alcove at 
break. Can leave anyt1me Call Marg1e at 
SMC 4173 STOP THE INSANITY BI-LATERALLY
GLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE. LaFortune 12-5 each day Bnng coupon 
on the ballot So do 11. don t hold back Vote YES on the B~ Lateral Freeze 
THE CASE WAS FALLING APAIF AND WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN lor lree p1cture!
nde needed to VIRGINIA for spnng break­March2 IS HELD TOGETHER BY A PIECE OF Surfs up 1n So. California. Dnv1ng 10 -can leave early. call Shelly x8t 48 Do it and get att your frustration off SILVER DUCT TAPE IF FOUND Callforma for spnng break? I could use a ONE or t TWO RIDES needed to the GAR· 
your cheat! 
SC2: YOUR TOGA fS IN THE

PLEASE CALL PHIL AT 8295 lift. G1ve M1ke a call at x t 688. Thanks. DENSTATEforSpnngBreak Yes.wedo 
BATHROOM (SHOWER). 

DESPERAEL Y NEEOED!!!IIII!!!I!!!I! GREAT BOOKS··GREAT MINDS-­want to go to NEW JERSEY for break. W111 
Alders needed to N Y C lor break. Call MEET FACULTY AND STUDENTS OF pay the uusual Please (PLEASE) call FOUNO.Cas1o scient1f1c calculator. fx-58. Karl x3113 FOR SALE THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAl STUDIES Sarah at 1361 or Mary at 1272 Please!!!!! MCAT Even thougt1 th1s IS Monday. have 1n eng~neenng auditonum. Call Kevtn at MONDAY FEB 28. 630 PM. GRACE a mce day. ana a t.etrer week Wasn·t 1! a 3201. late mght H1 Jayne, h1 Man, th1s 1s RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY NEW YORK PIT CONNECTICUT bound?! We need good weektmd? LC'~e. P tree! FOR SPRING BREAK···CAN LEAVE !desperately) ONE or TWO ndes to CON­
ANYTIME Will SHARE USUAL CALl lor sale 1977 BMW 320i.lUXUS HAPPY BIRTHDAY LAURA FARR ld NECTICUT f01 Spnng Break Please call Mssr FRANK W!-IITE You re good/ I Found· Basketball at Stepan Fnday, CHRIS AT 3510 OR 8573 ANYTIME·--call. but you don t always return my Mary at 1272 orSarah at 1361 W1ll pay hone&tly dl,~n·t !hl'lk you had tl 111 yo&'o
PACKAGE.FLORIDA CAR,GREAT SHAPE.$6,800 Call283-1 166 
2/18. Call Jerry 3321 to claim. calls the usual. Thurs n1g~t ~as an n1Cred1ble and a NEW JERSEY RIDE NEEDED TO dehghttu; S<Jrpns&o My respect for you TO THE PERSON THAT TOOK MY NORTH/CENTRAL NJ FOR SPRING NEW HOURS FOR CENTER FOR SO· DC CLUB BUS SIGN· UPS FOR has mo·~ man double6'o We must try tnat 
FOR SALE "73 Pont1ac Ventura. one BLUE DOWN VEST FROM 121 OSHAG BREAK. PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906. owner. low m1leage, full power. $795 or CIAL CONCERNS: Monday thru SPRING BREAK WILL BE TUESDAY. agam snol% -"ow sweet ptmp 
best offer Call239·6539 or 277·3333. MARCH 1, 10·11 PM ON FIRST FLOOR AND/OR KEYS THAT ARE tN THE TO CHICAGO FROM SOUTH BEND AM · 10 PM. Saturday --2 PM · 5 PM. LAFORTUNE. $70 00 ROUND TRIP Good stuff, Mayn.,:d ONE WAY, $15. ROUND TRIP, $28. FOR SAIL: OffiCial Notre Dame Sa1ilng YOU MUST PAY WHEN YOU SIGN UP 
ON TUES.,FEB.23. PLEASE RETURN IT Thursday .. 8 AM . 1 t 30 PM, Fnday --8 
POCKETITHESE ARE MY Sunday·· 6 PM 10 PM 
PHONE 234-6778. Club T·sh1rts. Blow your fr>end(s) away!
;-;OOM,HOUSE.WORK.MAIL. AND HOUSE KEYS) PLEASE RETURN TO Marathon 331 We"re weird. not w1erd! You forgot George 
We ve been do~ng a BOOM1ng bu1sness SC2: IS StlE 24-311-24? OR IS SHE A i LOST AND FOUND OR CALL TED AT HElP!! Need RIDE/RIDERS to PITIS. so order fast before they're all gone! Call Marathon 331 and B1ll From that 20· ol sway>ng death. SMC CHICK? YOU LOSE EITHER 
March 4·6. Call Jim--8921 Lou at 6713. WAY!
1 tOt I M DESPERATE!!! Marathon 331 SIMBA 
: 

~~----------------------------------,-----------------------------------------------·------· 
The Observer 
Women's basketball 
Irish cruise past Marquette 
the edges," admitted DiStanislao. lead, and Marqut:tte never again got
By MIKE RICCARDI 
"But we played a good second half. It close as the Irish put on the afterbur­
Sports Writer 
was our depth that did them in." ners. An 8-2 spurt at the end of the "The second halfwas just a matterMILWAUKEE-The Notre Dame second half, highlighted by a hey!­ofexecution," said DiStanislao. "Wewomen's basketball team shook off I'm-inside play which saw Ruth stayed with the same game plan, butsome first halfdifficulty to cruise to a Kaiser get a layup from a nice Laura just did what we knew we had to tono-sweat, no-strain, -,4-50 win over Dougherty assist, allowed the Irish beat Marquette."
Marquette University at the MU to expand a two-point lead to a 32-The Irish, led by Schueth, ShariGymnasium here Friday night. 
26 halftime advantage. Matvey, Keys and Bates, whoThe effort was keyed, like last 
The expected blowout failed to combined for 31 rebounds,weekend's pair of road wins, by the 
materialize until sophomore center whipped MUon the boards, 51-31.
Irish bench, as freshman forward Mary Beth Schueth's three-point The Irish women shot 30-of-64
Trena Keys and sophomore center 
play early in the second half. The while holding the Warriors, whoCarrie Bates led NO with 1 5 and 12 trey staked Notre Dame to a 37-30 connected on just 20-of-66. 
points, respectively. Quick fresh­man guards Denise Basford and Lisa Brown put in significant minutes off the sideline, contributing 1 5 points 
Louisville finishes off
and six assists. 
"We've been getting a big lift from our bench," said Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "I feel confident going 
pesky Murray State 
all the way down the bench. They 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -Louis­game-high 22 points after intermis­really picked up the tempo tonight 
ville Coach Denny Crum says his No. sion.
and gave us the spark we needed." 
3-ranked Cardinals have been con­Murray, now 19-6, had taken asA fired-up Marquette five. came sistent this year -they play well on much as a nine-point lead in the firstout and gave Notre Dame all it could 
the road and bad at home. half.
handle in the first half. The Irish, Crum says the 66-58 victory over Crum said he thought MurraybHsy passing the ball around, were visiting Murray State proved his played well and didn't let Louisvilletentative and unable to get un­point. do some of the things they normallytracked for most of the half. 
"We missed some shots that we do.
Meanwhile, the Warriors' senior don't usually miss," Crum said. "We The game was tied three timesguard Julie Sievers, who finished 
just weren't sharp." early in the second half before Wag­
with a game-high 18 points, was hot The Louisville coach said he felt ner keyed an 11-2 spurt that pushed
from the perimeter as MU, with the 
his team, which had to rally from a Louisville from a 31-29 deficit to ahelp of a -raucous crowd of about 27-25 halftime deficit, was not men­40-33lead.
I80 in the tiny gym which Mar­
tally prepared for the Ohio Valley Wagner, who scord nine of Louis­quette athletics shares with the Conference school. ville's points during the streak, putcampus' ROTC detachment, made a the Cardinals ahead to stay 32-31 game ofit early. Milt Wagner sparked the second­with a free throw with 16:22 left in "We were a little rough around halfLouisville rally, scoring 20 ofhis 
the game. 
Tuesday, March 1, 1983-page 9 

Notre Dame women's basketballplayerLisa Brown breezespast jennifer White of Louisiana Tech in the game a few weeks ago. Since the loss to Tech, the Irish women have won four in a row and are looking toward the NCAA Tournament. Mike Riccardi reports on the Marquette game from this weekend at the left. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
• • . Injury 
continuedfrompage 12 immense," says Bruno. "I think that Still, they had enough wins to finish it's a psychological thing that hap­twelfth. pens regardless of the weight train­
With the dosing of another wres-· ing and all. I've always seen the tling season at Notre Dame, Bruno biggest jump between those two offers this assessment of his team's years ofa wrestler's career." record setting 18-2 season that And next year's sophomores will ended in such a disappointing way. not be the only ones improving. 
"It was a great success. Ofcourse I "When you're a senior you know expected success, but this year was that it's the end of the l)ne as far as more than I had anticipated. Beating wrestling goes. They always come the record (for best team record in a back full offire," remarked Bruno. season) was a surprise to me, "Fisher should really be ready to though. put it to everyone after the disap­
"I really feel good about the way pointment of this year," continued 
that the program has advanced. And Bruno. "I think it will really spur him 
l 
you please everyone with the num­on." bers that we had. the students, the As far as recruiting goes, Bruno is 
l -~ fans, the alumni, the administration, looking for depth ih the 118, 190, and the wrestlers." and heavyweight classes. "The 
The Irish wrestlers can only im­problem at 118," Bruno says, "is that prove by the time that next year they always grow too big by the next rolls around. This year's squad was year." composed of mainly freshmen and With freshman standout Eric sophomores with a sprinkling of Crown growing out of 118, Fisher juniors and seniors. In fact, Notre holding over at 126, and a long list of Dame will lose only I 50-pound other hopefuls sitting in the 126 and Doug Skinner to graduation. 134-po t und weight classes, those 
"The improvement between the two classes will be tough to wrestle freshman and sophomore years is in next year at Notre Dame. 

Tuesday, March 1 
Anthropology Room 331 O'Shag 3:30 
ALPA Room 104 O'Shag 4:30 
Government Room 204 O'Shag 6:00 
..............~············........ 
: attentton: : 
i au PRosp€ctlv€ Ch€€RlE.aO€Rs i 
: ORqarnzatJonal ffi€€tmq ~oR 1983-84 t : Ch€€Rl€abmq tRyouts tu€sbay, maRch 1, 1983 t 
: at 7pm : • at th€ lal=oRtun€ BallRoom • 
•

•..................................• 



The Observer Tuesday, March 1, 1983-page 10 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Pearcy, Patterson 
Individuals star in lllini meet 
By DEAN SULLIVAN  Athletic Club, could muster only a  trail, posting an impressive time in  
Sports Writer  third-place finish.  the 1000-yard run.  ·  
The  other  good  Irish  perfor­ IRISH ITEMS ­ Notre Dame wj,ll/  
"As the season progresses," says  mances  were  by sophomore Tim  travel to Princeton, NewJersey.next  
Notre Dame track team coach Joe  Cannon and co-captain Jim Moyar.  weekend to compete in _Lln:  IC4A  
Piane, "our competition gets tough­ Cannon, running in  an  event  un­ track  championships.  the  pres­ 
er and tougher."  familiar to  him, i:he two-mile  run,  tigious meet includes...ti 1 schools,  
This weekend's Illini Classic is a  finished fourth in his heat. Moyar, a  with  only  the  Jrisli coming from  
good example of this. The field in­ senior from Downers Grove, Illinois  somewhere  other  than  the  East  
cluded competitors from  all  over  continued his path on the comeback  Coast.  
the  nation,  from  the  Ann  Arbor  
Track Club and Arkansas State  to  
Parkland Junior College and Wilbur Wright College. "It was a good meet," says Piane.  Injured Kitchel is  
"No, it was a great meet." Because the meet was only for in­dividuals and team scores were not  praised by Knight  
Guess who's trying to make it Bird" Fidrycb. Now Fidrych is trRed Sox as the 1983 season drawHouk keeps an eye on the pitcheinjury. ( AP Photo) continuedfrom page 12 consisting of Raili Tikka, Cochiolo, Gamboa, and Boss also set a record with their time of 1:55.8. Tikka, Coc­hiolo, Gamboa, and Korowicki picked up the final record in the 400-yard medley relay with a time of 4:14.0. ·Other swimmers placing wifhin the top 16 finishers were: Boss (9th in the 50-yard free), Cochiolo (IOth in the 200-yard I.M.), Karen Bobear ( 13th in both the 100-and 200-yard breaststroke), Gamboa (13th in the 100-yard fly), Tikka (14th in the 50­and 16th in the 100-yard backstroke events), Sheila Roesler ( 14th in the 200-yard fly), and Joan Burke (15th in the 1650-yard free).  back to the big leagues? Mark "The ying to book on with the Boston s closer. Red Sox manager Ralph r who is trying to return from an • • • Swim Co-captain Sheila Roesler agreed with her coach's assessment of the squad's tremendous improvement on an individual level during the year. ,. "We have a lot of team spirit, and we hung together as the season progressed." The jump to Division I was a tough step this year," remarked the other co-captain Jean Murtagh, "This was our 'championship' meet since we don't go to the Nationals like Saint Mary's does (in the NAJA). "I don't think anyone on the team is disappointed with our 5-6 record, considering the calibre of our op­ponents. "We go out with the nucleus for a strong program for next year."  kept, Piane decided not to take the entire team, opting to give athletes such as Steve Dziabis and Ed Juba a well-deserved weekend off. However, the Irish who did travel to Champaign performed admirably, although only two placed. The two who did were sophomores Van Pearcy and James Patterson. Pearcy ran a 48.87 quarter mile to grab third place, while Patterson captured fourth in the long jump competition with a jump of 23 feet, seven inches. Another sign of the competitive­ness of the field was the fact that many Notre Dame runners could not crack the top five in their event despite turning in some oftheir best times. Sophomore Jim Tyler, coming off some excellent performances over the last couple of weeks, again per­formed extremely well, running the mile in a sparkling 4:04. However, it was only good enough for seventh place. .. The same was true for graduate student John McCloughan, who made it to the finals in the 60-yard high hurdles only to be bested by the tough field. In fact, the competi­tion in his race was so tough that 1976 Olympic Silver Medalist Mike Shine, running for the New York  BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -Ted Kitchel has apparently played his last basketball game for Indiana University, but coach Bob Knight says the example he set will be long remembered. During his weekly television show, Knight paid tribute to Kitchel and said he will undergo tests this week and will probably need back surgery to repair a ruptured disc in his lower back. "We're not going to see him (Kitchel) play again this year," Knight said, adding that the ruptured disc affects the forward's left leg. "Ted will be under observation and will undergo tests this week," said Knight. "In all probability, sur­gery will be required. The prognosis is excellent." Kitchel, of Galveston, Ind., under­went surgery for a ruptured disc during his freshman year at Indiana and sat out the season. He has al­ready graduated and was studying for his master's degree during the current campaign. Kitchel left Thursday's game early in the first half. He never returned and his absence has been felt as the Hoosiers have dropped two straight games and fallen into a tie for first place in the Big Ten Conference  with Ohio State. Both teams are 10­5. Purdue, which visits Bloomington Thursday for a crucial conference battle between the arch-rivals is a halfgame back at 9-5. The 6-foot-7 forward was ad­mitted to Methodist H,ospital in In­dianapolis on Friday. He watched Knight's show along with members ofthe family. "It was really nice, wasn't it," said Tom Kitchel, who watched the show at the hospital along with his parents. "We were all up there watching it. Ted liked it, too." Kitchel, the I Oth-leading scorer in Indiana history with 1,336 points, was the leading scorer in the BigTen this season entering last week's ac­tion. He was averaging 20.3 in the conference and 17.3 overall. Knight appeared to nearly be in tears Sunday as he discussed the senior during his television program. "Ted was an unbelievably com­petitive kid," Knight said. "He wasn't a great player because he didn't have enough natural talent, but he was a great example of what }·ou can do with yourself if you try to get out of yourselfeverything you've got. "So many times, when we had to have a basket, not only did we want to go to Ted, but he wanted us to go  

·---------------------------------------~
I • "THE MAIN EVENT" ~~ 
I ~ April9,1983 ~ mt ~igltt& oftlJtQ!astlt Haircut Shampoo Blowdry 
I 1983 SENIOR FORMAL RAFFLE 
I I & Condition Reg. $15 I I $1.00 tickets available at all dining halls during dinner NOW $8.50 with coupon I and at Senior Bar through THURS MARCH 3. Many
I Haircut only $6 with coupon 
I prizes, including free bid to "THE MAIN EVENT", 
I (Hair must be washed day of cut)
dinners and tickets to shows including "Second City 
I I Review" in chicago. 

I 272·0312 277·1691
I Drawing March 3 at Senior Bar 
($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 
I 

----------------------------------------~ 
54533 Terrace Lana, South Send(Across from. Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 SAT. 8:30-5:30 
SPECIAL 
SPRIRG BREAK DISCOURT 
minimum rental 
~ring this ad in for J10.00 oH out -~) f 

9 days, cats only, special st-udent good from 3/10 rates!! thru 3/21/83. 
CALL IABLY!0BESIBVI YOUB CAB!! PRONE 287-2333 




to him," Knight said. "With Ted we've won 39 and lost 13 the last two years. That's a tribute to Ted. He's a psychological leader without having the great physical skills." 
He said future Indiana players will always have Kitchel to look up to as they strive for success. 

NBA  
Eastern Contere~  
Atientlc Division  
w L  Pet.  GB  
Philadelphia  49 7  .875  
Boston  41 15  .732  8  
New Jersey  36 21  .632  13.5  
New York  28 29  .491  21.5  
Washington  25 30  .455  23.5  
Centrei Dlvllllon  
Milwaukee  38 19  .667  
Atlanta  28 29  .491  10  
Detroit  27 30  474  11  
Ch1cago  20 38  .345  18.5  
lnd1ana  16 41  .281  22  
Cleveland  15 42  .263  23  
Western Conference  
Midwest Division  
w L  Pet.  GB  
SanAntomo  35 23  603  
KansasC1ty  28 28  .500  6  
Denver  29 30  .492  6.5  
Dallas  28 29  .491  6.5  
Utah  20 39  .339  15.5  
Houston  11 46  193  23.5  
Pacific Division  
LosAngeies  40 15  727  
Phoen1x  35 24  593  7  
Portt'and  34 24  586  7.5  
Seattle  32 26  .552  95  
Golden State  23 35  397  18.5  
San D1ego  20 38  345  21 5  



... -----­
Ihe~r======================================= 

~~~Cll~===========================T=u=e=sd=a=y,=M=~=c=h==l,=l=9=8=3==p=a=g=e==ll 
Berke Breathed 
NOfP€£P 
6NOUGH? 

)eb Cashin 

NEXT T/!1£ !3£/11'1 !'1£ 
U? WITII 11Y ClOTll£5~~~ oNl ·""i 
""'­

Fate 
I HfiD HIH IN Til£ 
fb r wllci./ I fi'E­
!1£!18Eif£P .. J'/1 
HE'f, DID 'IOU. ~£( IN THE ,~PE~ LA">T WEEK WHH( Til( SfUO(Nf UIIIIO N W/'6 R£NI\MfD? 
\ 


nlf't S'-10 THAT IT WOi.tLD 
CHNIC:.f 'fHf STV.DfNf 
~OVf«,~l'l(toiT'S IM,.(j( A.~ A. 
'OO·NOT!Ut(~' q~Oid' 
\ 



ACROSS 1 Calif. city 5 -Ems 8 Bearing 
malice 14 Summer 
refreshers 15 -Branco 16 Wadi 17 Partner of 
spaghetti 19 Looked las­civiously 20 Certain Queen 21 Building wing 23 African fox 

:5/G#ED UP RYi' 
THE WELINE~{)fll 
29 Pours out 33 Watchword 36 Patch 38 Sherwood -­39 Hurries 41 Ruth's 
mother-in· 
law 43 Alleviate 44 Singer 
Frankie 46 Theda of the silents 48 Moon vehicle 
49 Defensive bank of earth 
Bloom County 
COOK Slt:V€..:TilER£'5 

FOR ON<£ IN YCIJR 5HAU.W 
A Nl<£ YOVN6 I..AIIY... 
£-JF£, li'ON'T OC AWTAl.. 
r¥JJJ DOOT 
J6RK•.• ReACH li'OWN 
WJW/T. 

r;f£P ANCJ FINCJ 71-Jffr 
HI~R~RV€ 

Of GOOCJ TA5-re ... I 

Campus 
UH ... 
O!<AY... YOU CION'T HAV£. PIG P€£P, ANYTHIN<i I 60Y... ottP! COUW CATCH, 
•II 
a.m. -Ladies ofNotre Dame, Potluck Salad Luncheon, St. Mary's Clubhouse 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Chemical Engineering Lecture, "Phase Equilibria in Fluid Mixtures at High Pressure," Prof. William B. Streett, 256 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:I5 
p.m. -Workshop, Career Information for Government Majors, 103 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Placement Bureau 

•6:30 
and 9:30 p.m. -Film, "Death in Venice," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Arts and Letters Core Course, 

•7 
and IO:I5 p.m. -Film, "The Deer Hunter," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Irish Ran­gers, S1 

•7 
p.m. -Social Concerns Film, "Women in Arms," Center for Social Concerns Auditrorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Forum, Becoming Together, CCE, Sponsored by Women's Advisory Council 

•8 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, St. Ed's Chapel 

•10 
p.m. -Call-in-talk Show, Speaking ofSports, Ken Frystzak, WSND-AM 64 


T.V. Tonight 
7:30p.m. 16 All In The Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
8:00p.m. 16 The ATeam 22 The 113th Edition: Ringling Bros. and Barnam & Bailey Circus 
'wH"T Q.9 fHE"Y 00, 

28  Happy Days  
34  Nova  
8:30p.m.  28  Laverne and Shirley  
9:00p.m.  16  Bare Essence  
22  CBS Tuesday Night  Movie: "Happy  
Endings,"  
28  Three's Company  
34  American Playhouse  
9:30p.m.  28  9 to 5  
10:00p.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hart to Hart  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  

22 Quincy & McMillan & Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 
The Far Side 
The Simon Side 
~~~----------~ 
55 Presiden· 18 Rear 
tial name 22 Fib 59 Bridge game 25 Soup 62 Sound of ingredient 
discontent 26 Sky sight 63 Newton-John 28 Hard tennis 
The Daily Crossword 
... 

64 "I am a-" 66 Fingers' 5port 
68 Having no sense of right or wrong 
69 Hesitatory 
sounds 70 Queue 71 Adornment 72 Meadow 73 Kind of 
school: abbr. 

DOWN 1 Entitled 2 An Astaire 3 Norman 
Vincent­4 Nautica·l term 5 Donkey 
sound 6 Be sick 7 Metedout 8 Energetic 
person 

9 Wrath ~ 10 Riches 11 Rocky crags 12 Peepers 13 Traveled 24 Farm imple· 51 Head: Fr. 

ment man 53 Later, in 25 Hateful the South· 27 Bottle part west
Monday's Solution 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
3/1/83
All Rights Reserved 

3/1/83 
serve 30 Make airtight 31 "-quam 
videri" 32 Pipe part 33 Fellow 34 -Ridge 
(1972 Derby 
winner) 35 Time period 37 -Hill 40 Jails 42 -Hari 45 Harem room 47 "-of Two 
Cities" 5p-Paulo 52 Good for 
food 54 Award name 56 Profit 57 A.A.the 
author 58 Witch trial 
town 59 Scram! 60 Tibetan 
monk 61 Minor 
prophet 63 Greek peak 65 "Norma-" 67 Exist 

f"~~·r;~;:,~;u;~~p~;;;~-;;·..--··················-········--,
STUDENT UNION 

5 I 
: I
mandatory meeting fot 
: :I Bus leaves llbtaty citcle at~~ 
11 12 noon tetutns aftet i show.· i
Daytona Beach 

I I
Tickets Q VQiiQble
Wednesday, march 2 

I atthe 1
7pm La Fortune Ballroom 
I· Student Union ticket oHicel Informational meeting 
I!:!!!!!"!'.!!':.....~~~!:!!......~HIIHOOOOIIH-HI~~~
..-.........-.... 
Photius 


ANYHOW? 
I \ 
s_~orts 

Tuesday, March 1, 1983-page 12 

NCAA Midwest Regionals 
Injuries dash wrestling hopes 
However, the pain just became To make matters worse, the other
ByJEFF BLUMB Sports Writer too great in his second match for the top hopeful of Notre Dame, sopho­senior who has one year ofwrestling more Mike Golic, never even got Disappointment abounded for the eligibility remaining. Default was his onto the mat for a match. Although only choice. he suffered a concussion earlier in
Notre Dame wrestling team Satur­the week, it was thought that he was
day at the NCAA Midwest Regionals When his turn came up again in in Cedar Falls, Iowa. Besides finish­the loser's bracket, Fisher won his fully recovered. ing twelfth out of 18 teams, the Irish match, but it was because his op­That is, until the severe headaches 
11ad their top two hopefuls for the ponent was forced to default due to set in. After conferring with tourna­an injury of his own. ment doctors, it was decided that it
'lCAA Championships hindered by injury. The injury never allowed Fisher would he in Golic's hest interest not Mark Fisher, generally agreed to to step onto the mat for a fourth to wrestle. be Notre Dame's best shot for the match, so sixth place was as good as "Rather than risking a possihle aneurism from further bumping, we
'\lationals. finished sixth in the 126-he could possibly do. "If you consider that Fisher got decided that he would not wrestle,"
pound class. Any further advance­ment by Fisher was nullified by his sixth when he only really won his remarked Bruno. "It was the only recurring ankle injury. first match," said Irish coach Bro. sane and sensible thing to do. In his first match ofthe day, Fisher Joseph Bruno, C.S.C.. "( it is possible "So there went our top two had trouble with the ankle but was that) without the injury he could said disappointed
prospects," a have easily gotten third (meaning a Bruno in retrospect. "We were fairly
able to make it through the match with a victory. bid to the NCAA Championships)." confident that both would have made it (to the NCAA Champion­ships) looking at their seedings." Irish co-captain Don Heintzelman
Cougars take over top 
also had injury trouble Saturday. "It was the same old thing," says Bruno. "He has chondromalacia, which is a
spot from Rebels 
roughening of the underside of the knee cap."
lier beat St. Joseph's, advanced from 
As a team Saturday, Notre Dame
By DICKJOYCE 

seventh to No.4 with 914 points. 
did poorly also, not only due to in­
Associated Press 

Arkansas, 24-1 and a loser only to 
jury but also to inexperience. The 
Houston, moved up a notch to fifth 
team won only one match, Fisher's
Houston, winner of 23 of 25 with 894 points after stoppingTexas 

first, by other than default or forfeit.
games, became the nation's top­

and Texas Tech. ranked college basketball team yes­seeiNJURY, page 9 
UCLA, 21-3, whith drew the other terday, the first Southwest 
first-place vote and 854 points, took Conference team to reach the No. I 
over the. No. 6 spot, moving up two 
position since Arkansas in 1978. after victories over Banquet last night 
places two The Cougars, who made it to the 
Southern California. Final Four of the NCAA Tournament 
Kentucky, 20-5, which clinched 
Hockey awards are handed out 
last season, drew 42 first-place votes 

the Southeastern Conference title from the nationwide panel of 58 thanked each senior for participa­
by downing Tennesee Sunday, took InJUries, was named as the Best sports writers and broadcasters and ByJANE HEALEY tion and dedication during the past
over the No. 7 spot with 791 points, Defensive player. The sophomore
Sports Writer 
I,130 points. four years.
three notches higher than last week. from North St. Paul, Minn. chose to Coach G•Jy Lewis's team won its Fittingly, the first honor bestowed
North Carolina, 22-6, which focus on the upcoming playoffs in
The 1982-83 Notre Dame hockey
18th straight by beating Rice 86-52 was awarded to one ofthese seniors.
snapped a three-game losing streak his acceptance speech.
banquet was held last night at the
last week. The Cougars are 14-0 in The Most Valuable Player, an award
by topping Wake Forest and Clem­"I've heard a lot ofwords tonight,
Century Center in South Bend
the SWC and face Arkansas, 13-1, in a voted upon by the players, was given
son last week, moved from No. 1 I to but the last words will be spoken on
before a gathering of 250 devoted
league showdown at Fayetteville, to Bjork, the leading scorer for the
No. 8. The Tar Heels collected 647 the ice in the next four weeks," said
fans.
Ark., Thursday night. Irish.
points. Regan breaking up much of the pre­
It was only natural under the cir­
Houston moved up from the No. 2 On the verge of tears in his accep­
Nevada-Las Vegas, 24-2, which vious seriousness with his optimistic
cumstances that exist -the recent
spot after previously unbeaten tance speech, Bjork stated that he
had held the top spot for two weeks, outlook and getting a resounding
demise of the varsity program ­
Nevada-Las Vegas lost twice and fell lost road games to Fullerton State would like to have the plaque reaction from the crowd.
that the ceremony would deviate 
reinscribed to read "The Most

from No. I to No. 9. and West Virginia and drew 629 The Most Improved player of the 
It marked the first time Houston points. from its initial purpose of honoring Valuable Team 1982-83" for the uni­year was awarded to Stevethe outstanding players on this
held the top spot since 1968 when No. 10 is St. John's, 23-4, which ty his teammates have achieved Whitmore, a freshman who has seen
year's squad. But the awards were 
during the turmoil of the last five given amidst many kind words and
Elvin Hayes was the Cougars' star. beat Syracuse before losing to Vil­recent action this year on the fourth 
weeks.

Virginia, 23-3, landed 15 first­lanova 71-70. The Redmen, No. 9 line. In handing out the honor, assis­
tears.
place votes to take second place "I don't think that you can select
last week, drew 623 points. tant coach Len Moher described the
The night began with Coach 
one person for this award," he said.

.. 
with 1,081 points. The Cavaliers, Completing the Top Twenty, in recipient as "The first guy on the ice No. 3 last week, beat North Carolina order, were Indiana, Wichita State, Charles "Lefty" Smith taking control "I really think that we've had a Most for practice, and the last guy off."of the microphone. He called the 
Valuable Team fot all we've gonenine seniors of the program up to 
State over the weekend. Missouri, Ohio State, Boston Col­TheJohn Whitmer Award (named 
through."the platform. He introduced them to
Louisville, 24-3, a winner over lege, Georgetown, Memphis State, after the Irish head trainer) is a dis­
Wright State and Western Kentucky Syracuse, Tennessee-Chattanooga Later in the night, Bjork also tinction given to the player who is
the crowd as Rex Bellomy, Kirt
last week, jumped from No. 5 to No. and Purdue. received the Ed McGauley Memorial crabby and ornery day in and day
Bjork, Rick Chryst (sports informa­
3 with 992 points. UT-Chattanooga and Purdue are award from the Blue Line Club. It out. Sophomore Brent Chapman ac­tion student assistant ),John Higgins, was a die-hard Notre
named after John Keating, Boo McNamara, and
Villanova, 20-4, which clinched the newcomers in this week's cepted the title for the second year 
the Big East crown with an overtime rankings. Iowa and Tennessee Dame fan who closely followed the in a row. He then turned around to
Tony Scott (team manager). Smith
win over St. John's Saturday and ear-dropped out. hockey team. To the members ofthe give Bob Thebeau the ''Garfield" Blue Line Club, Bjork embodies the 
award. Chapman aptly described the spirit ofthe Notre Dame tradition of distinction as going to the 
student athletes. 

"plumpest guy on the team", stating
Midwest Invitational 
The distinction of Rookie of the 

that it was a close race between Year was bestowed on freshman Thebeau and Benning. Mark Benning ofEdmonton, Alberta. 
There was one especially emo­

Swimmers set marks, still lose 
Benning, who entered this univer­

tional moment that captured the $ity as one of the 200 Notre Dame 
thoughts and feelings of all present.
ByTHERON ROBERTS in a very difficult tear of Division I other record, but good enough for Scholars and has since gone on to 
Keith Penrod, recognized as Notre Sports Writer competition," said Notre Dame only eighth place in the meet. earn a 3.35 GPA in engineering, was 
Dame's No. 1 fan, devised his own 
coach Dennis Stark. "But it was Karen Korowicki bested two honored for his fine defensive 
honor for the team and Smith. Pen­
The Notre Dame women's swim-definetly a good experience. records during the meet. She abilities. Benning accepted the rod, who regularly attends Irish foot­
ming team ran into strong competi-"The girls swam some of the fas­finished seventh in the SO-yard free award politely and granted thanks to ball and basketball games,tion at the Midwest Women's test times ofthe year, and performed with a time of :25.4, and came in Smith and Notre Dame. 
suspended his basketball loyalties to Collegiate· Invitational Swimming stronger than last year. I've noticed eleventh position in the 100-yard "It was a surprise to me, and a give his support to the dying hockey
and Diving Championship, which considerable improvement over the free in :55.14. great honor," Benning said. "A place program. For the past five weeks,
concluded on Saturday.night. season. Gina Gamboa rounded out the in­like Notre Dame is great, and since the decision was announced,
The three-day, 12-team meet was "This is an outstanding group of dividual records, tallying a seventh everyone on the team has been has been at practice,
he home 
won by Illinois State with a total girls." place in the SO-yard fly, with a time touched by it." 
games, and has even travelled to the 
team score of 872 points, while the No fewer than ten Notre Dame of:27.8. The Best Defensive Forward, away series. 
Irish finished in ninth position with varsity records fell during the three-The remaining four records came given for the offensive player who 
207 points. day meet. in relays. The 200-yard free relay also carries out his defensive respon­Penrod presented a plaque to Smith and his team that touched the
The meet was an intense com-Vennette Cochiolo is the owner of team of Julie Boss, Jean Murtagh, sibilities with diligence, was hearts of all those in attendance and
petitive experience for the Notre three of those newly established Gamboa, and Korowicki finished awarded to Higgins. Higgins is also summed up the spirit ofNotre Dame
Dame squad. Even a team like standards. She rewrote the record fourth with a time of I :44.0. The the third leading scorer for the Irish. and the 1982-83 hockey banquet.
Cleveland State, which beat the Irish books in the breaststroke events. In same quartet came in eighth place in More importantly, he is one of the earlier in the year, ended up in the the 100-yard breaststoke, she placed the 400-yard free relay with a time of 
team captains and an aggressive It read: "I thank you for what youmiddle ofthe team standings. sixth with a time of 1: I 0.0, while her 3:46.1. player who never lets up. 
gave and did for me. I love you all. "The teams we faced during the record 2:31.8 in the 200-yard event The 200-yard medley relay team, 
Sean Regan, who has only played God bless all of you. Keith A. Pen­Midwest Invitational are the tough-was good enough for sixth place. 
seeSWIM, page 10 the last half of the season because of rod." 
est teams that we've come up against Her SO-yard time of :32.27 was an­





