"---~---~--­
• • • The Bindery -page 8 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Anne At the heart of the matter was the McGill Burford resigned yesterday EPA's S 1.6 billion superfund to clean as chief of the embattled Environ" up hazardous waste dump sites and mental Protection Agency, and charges that it had been mishandled President Reagan said the resigna­and manipulated for political tion was "an occasion of ~orrow for reasons. us all.'' The EPA sanctioned the award ofa 
The announcement cam~ shortly S7.7 million contract for toxic waste after the White House said it was cleanup in Indiana to an lllinois firm releasing to Congress documents it which stood accused of trying to had refused to turn over earlier in cover up its own pollution congressional investigatio.ns of the problem~. The company, Chemical agency. Waste Management, Inc., was 
In agreeing to supply the House represented by a former consultant investigating comrrtittee with all to the EPA's administrator. Chemical documents it seeks in its probe of Waste, of Oak Brook, Ill., came un" the Environmental Protection der scrutiny as part ofthe ballooning Agency, the White House in effect Congressional investigation. dropped Reagan's claim of ex­Burford, nee Anne Gorsuch ecutive privilege. before her marriage Feb. 20 to 
A close friend of Burford, Freda Robert Burford, was cited for con­Poundstone, said the EPA chief quit tempt of Congress last Dec. 16 after because she "felt her resignation she refused, under orders from the 

and Colleen F~ynn man thephones during the an­lege, had raised 132,000 as ofear~y yesterday eve­
was in the best interests of the EPA president. to provide a House .sub­
nual phone"a-thon held in the basement of . ning. (Photo by Hamil Cupero)
and in the pre~ident's interest." committee with documents on the 
LeMans. The phone"a-thon dril'e, which is the
After that announcement of the superfund. release ,.,f donunent:-.. chief presidential spokesman Larry President Reagan claimed ex 
Fifty applications annually 
' ' 
Speakes was a~ked whether Presi­ecutive privilege and the Justice dent Reagan still has ful! cont1dence Department filed suit on Burt<>rd's in the administraror of the EPA and hehalf to block the contempt cita­
Study re-evaluates rector selection 
he replied: "Let's wait and see." tion. hut lost in court. Reagan had expressed contldence That was only the opening gun, PACE (Priorities and Commitments and two lay women serving as rec"
By TOM MOWLE 
StaffReporter
in the administrator as recently as however. Rep. John Dingell. D­for Excellence) Report recom­tors in women's halls. Van Wolvlear 
Sa·urday .\1ich., chairing one of six congres­mends defining the rectors' roles says the university will only giveYour rector. Many of you only
Burford's resignation follows ~ional committees investigating the and re-evaluating the select:on "preferential treatment" to Holy meet him or her when you break the
three months of turbulent relations EPA, said in recent days that his process for rectors. Cross clergy when all the best ap­rules or lock yourself out of your
betwen the EPA, Congress, the panel had heard "specific informa" About 50 persons a year apply to plicants are Holy Cross. room. Yet this person was selected or
Justice Department and the White tion of criminal conduct and other be a rector assistant rector at The rector's role is broad and from a large pool of applicants The
House. wrongdoing" at the EPA. Notre Dame, according to Assistant generally little understood. "But," Vice President for Student Affairs says Poorman, "ifthere is a weakness Father Gregory Green. Those con­in the lack of clarity in the job sidered strong candidates are description, this is also its strength"

Blakey lecture 
invited to the campus for interviews because the rector must play so with Vice President for Student Af­many roles. "The rector," he says," fairs FatherJohn Van Wolvlear, Dean "serves as pastor, disciplinarian, ad­

Law profexamines role ofguilty 
of Students James Roemer, ministrator of the hall, and link be­By AMY STEPHAN which it discovers is a systematic use anything the client says to his representatives of Campus Ministry, tween the students and the Office of. disadvantage. and Green. Student Affairs."
News Staff truth, he said. 
Examining the limitations of the The last principle is that a lawyer Green says the candidates also Contradicting Poorman's view of Someone guiltv of a crime is not judicial system, Blakey asked, "Is should represent a client zealously meet with other rectors, assistant this "strength" of the rector's role, within the bounds of the law. This rectors, and resident assistants to the PACE report recommends that
obligated to vol~nteer for punish­there any way that the system can 
ment, hut a to determine absolute guilt and in­means that lawyer cannot "learn more about the University." "the duties, prerogatives, and
has duty accept a I ina! choices are made from the reporting responsibilities of rectors
punishment for proven crimes. nocence, barring full disclosure?" knowingly make use ofperjury. "The experience of history is that ·esults ofthese interviews, although be clearly defined ... and clearly un­
These remarks were made by Rohert He summed up the ethics of in the case ofan assistant rector, "the derstood."
Blakey of the Notre Dame Law practicing law using three basic con­the only way to separate the guilty rector's determination (in the hall The duties of rectors, as listed in
School last night in his talk, cepts. The first of these "can be from the innocent is to get as much "Defending a Known Guilty Partv." summed up in one word -in­as much information from the clien.t with an opening) is the most impor­Blakey explained that truth is an tegrity," he said. as possible," said Blakey. "The only tant," said Green. 
ahstract concept and that we can Confidence is the second con­way to do this is to keep his con-The background of a rector, fidence.·· · Green says, should include a "strong
:lever really be sure what is true. cept. Blakey said that a lawyer sense ofservice or ministry." Father
Our judicial system is a mechanism should preserve the confidence and Blakey explained that most clients will not volunteer information to a Mark Poorman, rector of Dillon Hall, the university's job description, are
to discover truth, hut the truth secrets of his client and should not lawyer if they think this information worked as an RA while he was a providing "religious leadership and might he used against them. seminarian here. Others, such as ministry; being available, sensitive, · 
Thcreforc. it is essential ~hat a Father David Noone, rector of\,race and responsive to students' needs
Placement Bureau promotes 
lawyer keep the confidence of his Hall, worked in schools. The main for counsel and advice in matters of client, concluded Blakey. criterium, according to Green, is personal, academic, and social con­When considering systematic "previous experience in service w cern; initiating "opportunit~s

Boston career opportunities 
truth, according to Blakey, the and knowledge of this age group." . whereby the developmental needs By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI teaching effective cauzen action at defense council is not ohligated to Each year students in the halls of young adults can be met; SeniorStaffReporter 12 affiliated colleges in Massachu­divulge information which the evaluate their rectors. Each rector is maintaining the physical facilities" 
setts. client gave him in cont1dence. called in to the Office ofStudent Af­and acting as the "critical link of 
Several service-oriented career Year-round positions are available "If the lawyer makes himself a fairs for an interview about the communication" between students opportunities are available for stu­in Boston and summer jobs are judge, he accepts a role that the sys­evaluation. Green says there are and the administration. This list ale dents interested in summer or full­available-in Cape Cod and Worces­tem reallywon'twork with." he said. usually "few surprises" in the evalua­lows the rectors to interpret their time work in the Boston area. ter. Blakey demonstrated his points tions,.and most of the rectors would roles as they see them. 
Tile Massachusetts Public Interest MPIRG is "looking for the best by examining hypothetiGal cases. He prefer to have "all the students" fill Father Matthew Miceli, rector of Research Group ( MPIRG) is offering people they can find," said Geof­t1rst looked at how to defend an in­them out. Cavanaugh ·Hall,· eutlines.;tbe .role .of several jobs through the Alternative frion. He noted that the program is a nocent party, and then moved on to The PACE Report recommends a rector as "primarily to foster 1\le Career Exploration (ACE) program "good opportunity and fits well into "the more realistic case," the giving "preferential treatment to educatiotial, spiritual, and physical ofthe Placement Bureau. a background ofArts and Letters. defense ofa guilty party. Holy Cross" priests and brothers welfare. of the students under h1s 
For those people who "can't af­"It's one option that would give "Let's be blunt with one another;' when selecting rectors. Van care." Secondary to these he pl~ces ford to volunteer," PIRG pays a some potential" to students who are said Blakey. "Most people who are Wolvlear says only two rectors in encouraging social activites, ·dis­"modest" salary plus health benefits, not ready for the "three"piece-suit indicted are guilty." men's halls are not in the Holy Cross cipline, and counseling. ~ said Placement Bureau Director job," he added. One problem which arises in order, Noone and Father Mario Pedi The rector has great influence on Charles Geoffrion. defending a guilty client, according of Saint Edward's Hall. He noted, th~ chalacter of a dorm, said Poor­
Job openings include establishing A file of job openings is available to Blakey, is how to justify allowing however, that there are two Immac­man. Noone feels Grace is "twenty a student chapter, developing local at the Placement Bureau, room 222 ulate Heart ofMary sisters, two Fran­
See RECTOR, page 6 
programs, "ecruiting studems, and of the Administration Building. See CLIENT, page 6 ciscan sisters, a Dominican sister, · 
\ Ql. X\ II. :'1:0. 1 I _J, tht: mJt:pt·mknt ..,tuJt:nt new..,pJpt:r 'ervmg notre damt: and ..,am! rriaf} ·, Till RSDAY. \L\ RU I I0. Jl)H -1, 

Burford resigns post as EPA administrator 



JNewsBrie/§ 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
Those strange-smelling rolls that were served in the dining halls last night were perfectly healthy, accord­ing to a cook in the North Dining Hall. "Doc" Horvath said thar the recipe called for "some cooking type of ammonia," and this in-. gredient caused the strong smell inside the rolls. "We knew there would be a lot of questions about it, so we had the recipe ready to show people," said Horvath. The rolls were served as part of"A Taste ofireland" night. -The Obsen•er 
Van Lines will not be operating this weekend or next. Services will resume on March 2';-26. -Tbe Ohserl'er 
Nationally known illustrator Denis Luzak will give a lecture at 4 p.m. today in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art as part of the Visiting Artist Series. I.uzak received his degree from Notre Dame and studkd at the Art ln~'titute of Chicago. His illustrations have appeared as covers for Time. Fortune, and Forbes and in such magazines as .\ports Illustrated, McCall's, Ladies Homejournal, Redbook, and GoodHousekeeping. -The Obsen,er 
The fina} ShOWing of the Christo t11ms, Valley Cur­tain and Running Fence, will take place today at 6:15 and ..., p.m. respectively. Both films will bt screened in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. Admission is free. The Christo exhibition closes Sunday, March 20, 1983. -The Obsert,er 
The Observer announces the appointment of two news editors: Bob Vonderheide, a sophomore chemical engineering major from Lexington, Ken., and Mark Worscheh, a sophomore economics/ALPA major from Houston, Tex. The two complete ap­pointments to the 1983-84 Obseroer Editorial Board. -The Ob· 
seroer 
Saudi Arabia said yesterday that OPEC "most probably" will agree on a uniform cut in oil prices in the next 24 hours. But other ministers in the feuding 13-nation cartel reported little progress after a series of crisis talks held in London. Despite a con­ciliatory gesture by maverick Iran, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries made little progress in yesterday's negotia­tions, sources said. OPEC has struggled to agree on a lower base price for its oil and perhaps production cutbacks in hopes ofstabiliz­ing the market and avoiding a free-for-all among the world's major oil exporters~ The current OPEC benchmark price is $34 a barrel, but prices have slumped in the face of a worldwide oil glut. Ahmed Zaki Yamani, the Saudi oil minister, told reporters during a break in the talks that he saw hope for a settlement by tomorrow. Yamani, whose country is the world's largest oil exporter. also said the cartel still faced "many problems," but added, "we an: solving them." -AP 
An 11-year-old Anderson, Ind., girl arrived in Houston yesterday, clutching a doll named Heidi and hoping to find "a new life" at a hospital where doctors will examine her to see if she can recdve a transplanted heart. Physicians at Texas Children's Hospital were to examine Sharon Stohler "from head to toe" before making their decision, said the child's mother. Barbara. The family arrived in Houston from its home in Anderson. Ind., this morning. Sharon's first symptoms of the degenerative heart disease cardiomyopathy showed up two days before Thanksgiving, Mrs. Stohler said. "When it strted out, we thought it was just an ordinary cold," she said. But doctors discovered Sharon's heart was enlarged. she said. Sharon, dressed in blue jeans and running shoes, smiled shyly for caineras as two men lifted her down the steps from the plane's entrance. "She's just like any 11-year-old," Mrs. Stohler said. "She wants to get out and run and play." -AP 
A judge dismissed murder charges yesterday against two doctors who withheld nourishment from a brain-damaged man after he was taken off a respirator but still did not die. Municipal CourtJudge Brian Crahan said the physicians need not stand trial for murder and conspiracy to murder because because there was no proof they acted negligently or with malice. Defense attorneys con­tended Drs. Neil Barber and Robert Nejdl had acted out ofcompas­sion in a hopeless case. "Although the actions of ...Barber and Nejdlmay be considered by some to have been precipitous, there is no evidence in the record before this court that such precipitous action was taken in violation of standards of medkal and ethical conduct," Crahan said. "It must be concluded that neither Dr. Barber nor Dr. Nejdl took any overt action with regard to the patient that was, per t se, unlawful." -AP 
Winter continues its return to south Bend today. The clouds will remain, with a 70 percent chance of snow. Highs around 30, and lows tonight in the low 20s. Cloudy and cold tomorrow. Highs around 30. -AP 
--~--~----~-----~~------· 
Thursday, March 10, 1983 -page 2 
The Boneheads continue 
As we go through life, not only do we slowly age, .but certain other processes affect our bodies. As newborn infants. our skulls are not entirely forrncd. In fact it is very inadvisable to drop an infant on his or her head. However, as time goes by. our ~kulb undergo a thicken­ing process. UnllJrtunately, thi~ does not stop until we die. The word for this process is boneheadism. 
In an article in this ~pace last year I attempted to detlne local occurrence~ of thb dreaded aftliction. For anyone. this is an easy task Each day a~ we try to eek out an education, we arc surrounded by boneheadisms. 
For instance. how many of you have tried to escape from the South Dining llall with some fruit? It sounds innocent enough. but it is not. Should you ·y this hor· rihlc crime, you will be stopped by a Ia¥ ,tudent. He will tell you that you can either sneak food out in your backpack. or you can sneak it out by biting into it. This means that the Dining Hall system awards either those who are slobs and eat on the quad, or those who are greedy and want to go into 
down they lock up the build ings. So, those students unlucky enough to have to he in O'Shag after dark have to go searching for an open door. If they ~re going to keep one door open, why not keep all the doors open? Arc they afraid that thousands of vandals are going to pour into the building and steal the ... 
As college students, it may be hard to understand boneheadism, hut the sobering thought to remember is that many ofthc worst offenders were once college stu­dents themselves. How many current students will he the boneheads oftomorrow? I hope that Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is not number one in this category. 
Even succesful enterprises are prone to honeheadism. The television show MA'I/1, a perennial favorite, has come under its own sad shadow. Unlike a few years ago when the show was known for its biting and clever humor, it recently degenerated to the point that its final epbode was a travesty of what it once was. Why' Because the principal members of the show were 
The Observer 
/Jesig,J Editor... . Ken Cc:rahona Design Assi.,·tant... ........ Mary Ikaly Typesetters ........ Toni, AI, & tht· unknown .Veu•s Editor........ ...... ......Jeff Harrm~ton 
Cnf!J' Editor.... ....... Tim :'lledy 
Diane Dirkt:·r~ Features l.ayout, .... ......... Sarah llamillon H&TLayout .... . ... Ken Ct·rabona .\ports Copy Editor .. Mike Sul11van. with· out Kathy 
NO Dar Editor.............. .......... Ann Baily .UIC Da)' Editor ..................... Tari Brown 
Photographer.... ... ......... Hamil Cupcro Guest ApfJearances.. .\1ikt' Ric<.:ardi, Paul 
McGinn.  Kathy  Gancarz.  Margaret  
"Moses"  fosmoc,  Dreaming  l>zicdzic,  
"Community"  Rahhit,  Joe,  

"Shakespeare" \.lu!ttumeci, A Naked 1-'a<.·t· 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fr~day and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vac;at1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnp11on~ may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semeslerJ by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a •nember ot The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 



Ryan Ver Berkmoes 

Managing Editor 
Inside Thursday 
bitten by the bonehead bug. Loretta Swit started sport­ing a mod hair-doo that diu not seem possible under wartime conditions. Alan Aida got the idea that he was a dramatic actor. He set out to prove this by writing him­self lots of self-indulgent scenes to prove how "caring" he was. America was forced to listen to him screemlike an infant. 
Certainly though. the theory that one's skull becomes thicker with age does not extend to our president. Look at the recent examples in which he has proven his 
lucidity. Once upon a time. 

business I(JI' themselves with stolen fruit. Those nor­mal folks who might walll an orange or an apple for latt·r are denied this hcnellt. 
Then there are those who have class late at night. With the proliferation of com­puters on campus, students can be found working at all hours. In fact each night at O'Shaughnessy Hall several classes are scheduled untill at least I 0 p.m. This however docs not stop the Notre Dame security forces from their appointed rounds. Nop1e, right on schedule, as the sun goe~ the Enviromental Protec­tion Agency was a respected arm of the government. The citizens of this country saw the EPA as an organization helping to f(m.tall the poisoning of our earth. Despite the resignation of chief honcho Anne Burford, to many people the Pin EPA will still be equated with Pillage. Of course President Reagan stood behind her. 


A media reporting no­thing but good news for a week. Sound like a dream? To a certain president it is. Ofcourse a noticable lack of good news to report does 
not stop him from making this request. 

Boneheadism cannot be acused ofbeing predgidous. No matter what country one looks at, it can be found. Well almost everywhere. In El Salvador, the rebels are said to be fighting the wealthy who control the economy. Actually, the rebels are fighting El Salvador's army, which is made up of conscripted poor people. Thus the poor fighl the poor. Who said the rich were stupid? 
The important thing to remember •s that boneheadism can strike when you least expect it. For­tunately there are simple preventions. Just remember 
the two C's: consideration and common sense. In our rush to be mature, these two important qualities are 
easily forgotten. You don't want to be a bonehead, do you' 

????????????????????????????????????
.................................... 


Are You Registered for the Draft? 
Are You Concerned About the Possibility of Being Drafted into the 
Military? 

Do You Think You Might Be A Conscientious Objector? 
Would You Like to Know What Being A Conscientious Objector Entails? 
If These Questions Are of Concern to You, Then You Should Inquire About 

REGISTRATION & DRAFT COUNSELING 
at Campus Ministry Badin Hall** *239-5242 

~~~~~.~~~--~~------"
-~~~~~~ 

The Observer Thursday, March 10, 1983 -page 3 
Leadership conference 


Bricklayers probe work problems 

By PAM RICHARDSON 
StaffReporter 
To solve the unemployment and job-related problems of the housing industry, the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftsmen held a national leadership con­ference this past week. The con­ference started Monday and ended yesterday at the Center for Continu­ing Education. 
Union agents and consultants from across the nation met with na­tional leaders to talk over the problems of the union. Ap­proximately 160 members par­ticipated in the three-day conference. 
The first part of the conference consisted ofa talk given by the presi­dent of the union John Joyce, a '57 Notre Dame graduate. He discussed the overview of problems with which the union leadership had to cope. 
The rest of the conference con­sisted of a series of eight mandatory workshops. Among the workshops were: "Quality of Work!&;" "Political Action -Delegate Selec­tion;" and "Collective Bargaining '83." 
The most important workshop held, said Joyce, was "Unemployed Member Program," which gave a detailed outline of measures that could help the unemployed. Joyce commented that 30 percent of uni­on members are currently un­employed. A high percentage of these members have been out of work for over six months. 
Joyce felt the union could help these people by providing them with counseling and assistance. He noted that the serious damage done to these workers is not economic, but psychological. 
Concerning the choice of the CCE for the conference, Joyce said that, not only did the conferees want a university setting, but they decided the best facilities in the area are located at Notre Dame in the CCE. 
Fears Soviet 'delight' 

Reagan lobbies against freeze 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Reagan administration took the of­fensive yesterday against a nuclear weapons freeze plan headed for a House vote next week, charging that the measure would "delight the Soviets" and increase the danger of war. 
House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R-Ill., said he told President Reagan that the Democratic­controlled House is likely to pass the resolution, endorsed Tuesday by the House Foreign Affairs Committee on a 27-9 vote. 
"Obviously, he (Reagan) didn't like it," Michel commented to repor­ters. 
The White House said President Reagan might not be swayed by passage ofa freeze resolution. 
The resolution calls upon the ad­ministration w use the Strategic Arms Reduction Talks (S.T.A.R.T.) for the purposes of"pursuing a com­plete halt to the nuclear arms race" and "deciding when and how to achieve a mutual verifiable freeze on testing, production and further deployment of nuclear warheads, missiles and other delivery sys-terns." 
Richard R. Burt, assistant secretary of state for European af­fairs. told a House Armed Services subcommittee that the resolution would undercut arms control negotiations with Moscow. 
Ira Progoff Intensive Journal Workshop® 
March 19 and 20 Indiana University at South Bend 237-4261 

--gQowen~ {pn aQQ occa~ion~ '' 
· Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354 
WANT TO FLY? 

If your goal is to become a professional, you owe it to yourself not to overlook any opportunities that will help you reach that goal. THE NAVY PILOT (20/20 vision is required) is the finest in the world, flying a variety of soph­isticated high performance aircraft. THE NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER (vision correctible to 20/20) is the quarter­back of the Naval Aviation Team with wide-ranging expertise from state-of-the-art Data Processing to Master Tacti­cian. If you are a college graduate, or are within three years of graduation, wanting to get your feet off the ground and earn over $27,000 a year within four years and attend the world's most prestigious flight school, contact or mail your resume to: 
575 N. Pennsylvania St. Office 646, Indianapolis, IN 46204
NAVAL AVIATION 1-800-382-3782 
'I 
The Observer Thursday, March 10, 1983-page 4 
r=t1onau bomms 
·  who w1U B€ 1n th€ ~aytona aRt.a on  
St. patulck' s Oay  
·.I  Th€ StUb€nt Unton IS thROWtnq at th€ Plazahot€1 Locateb on th€ StRIP  III  


L~>a<~~t~~ 




r.2B!W!!u~,f,~L 
SZECHUA/1 -CAIITD/IE$1-AMERICA/I 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar 
See Chuck Ever) Tues. lhru Sal. 
8:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m .....Enjoy Life! 
•Dancing• Drinks• Dinger 
• Hospitality• Reasonable Prices 
Serving Outstanding Chinese and American Food at Moderate Prices, and your Favorite Cocktails or Polynesian Drinks. 
Now Serving Breakfast 7-11 am Fri., Sat,. & Sun. 
HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS Mon.-Thur. 11:30a.m.·10:00p.m. A WEEK Fri. &Sat.11:30a.m.-11:00p.m. Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH Happy Hour 5-7 P.M. SOUTH BEND(Roseland) · BANQU£T ROOMS & Next to Randall's Inn New Expanded GROUP RATES 
Facilities 
AVAILABLE 272-7376 
r------BUSSES BEING OFFERED 
FROM 
PHILADELPHIA $64 & BUFFALO $43 
~ifjilb 


~J.LtA.~ 
-V(IJI""~9~\ 
DEADLINE FOR THESE AREAS EXTENDED TO 
MARCH 22 
Pick up bus reservation forms at Student Government Office 2nd floor LaFortune 

One hurdle remains 
Social Security bill nears passage 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -The SI6S.3 billion in new revenues or the retirement age from 6S to 6 7 by House, after two years ofbitter party savings over seven years. The short· 2027, and a rival amendment by warfare over Social Security, faced term reforms would also solve two· Rep. Claude Pepper, 0-Fia., to raise only one hurdle yesterday to thirds ofthe long-range problem. the payroll tax instead by 0. S 3 per­passage ofa bipartisan Sl6S.3 billion The measure would solve the cent in 20 l 0. package to pull back the system remaining one-third ofthe deficit by Pickle said the change would not from the brink of bankruptcy mixing a five percent benefit cut for occur until "way in the future." With through higher taxes and a slow­new retirees a quarter century rom people living longer, he added, down in the growth of benefits. now with a quarter-point payroll tax "raising that age is absolutely in­
Debate centered on whether to increase in 201 S. evitable. Now is the time. You miss raise the retirement age or taxes in The chamber was cons.idering on­this chance and we will end up in the the next century as the last element ly two amendments, one sponsored future just raising taxes." in the plan to close Social Security's by Rep.).). Pickle, D-Texas, to raise revenue gap in the 1980s and wipe out its S1.9 trillion deficit over the next 7S years. 
Pope in conclusion of visit 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, speaking about the bill's chances 

emphasizes concern for poor
before the start of the marathon eight-hour debate, said, "There's no PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) -terday in a whirlwind conclusion of question the votes are there, unless Pope John Paul II offered "words of his visit to Central America and the 
it unravels in some unexpected comfort and hope" for the world's Caribbean. way poor and criticized "aggressive "It is a question of having a dig­
The measure would generate proselytism" by other religions yes-nitled standard of living," the pope said in remarks prepared for delivery at a eucharistic: congress in Haiti, the Western Hemisphere's
I"U1€CoRBY OP€n.. GOLF TOURNAMENT I 
most destitute country and the last stop on his eight-nation tour.
I R€qlstRatlon staRts a~t€R SpRtnq BRt.ak I 
The church does not "want to
I OpEn to auquys anb (JIRls ... S€€ you th€R€ I accuse and point out what is wrong" but desires "to contribute positively toward development. especially with leaders," he added. 

The theme ofthe congress, which
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
coincided with a meeting of Cath­
:Special discount for ND/SMC students olic bishops from all over Latin (Sx lOspace $18.S0permonth) America, was "Something must change here."
CALL 259-0335 to RESERVE SPACE pope during Central
The his American mission that began March
SELlr LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 
2 has called repeatedly for more concern for the region's millions of
816 East Me Kinley poor people. 
President-for-life Jean-Claude
Mishawaka 
Duvalier and his wife, Michelle, 
See POPE, page 6 



21 S. Ocean Ave. 



Da~ona Beach 
5 Levels of Entertainment Directly on Daytona Beach Top 40 Entertainment 2 Disc Jockeys 2 Dance Floors 
# 1 NIGHT CLUB IN 
DAYTONA BEACH 
Brother Jim's Lounge 3150 E. Commercial Blvd. 


Ft. Lauderdale\' 
3 levels of entertainment Live Rock "N" Roll Bands 
\

Top 40 D.J. \ 
fT. lAUDERDALE'S #l NIGHT.CLUB 
----~-------~ 



Business & Technology_T_hurs_day,_Mar_ch 19-83_.pag_e
IO_, 

EconomicUpdate .­
Ford Motor Co. announc~:d Wedn~:sday it will inv~:st S2S million in its Indianapolis Ste<:ring Gt:ar plant so that th<: facility will produce components l(>r a new lint: of front-wheel-drive cars lat<:r this dt:cadt:. Tht: inv<:stm<:nt will save up t<> -tOO jobs that would have been lost by 198"" if Font had decided t to go to an outside sup­plier l(>r the pow~:r rack-and-st<:ering gear. said companv spokesman (jene Koch. adding that it also could add about I00 jobs at the facility. The plant. which now makes stet:ring parts for r~:ar-wht:el­drive cars, <:mploys about 2,600 hourlv work<:rs. Anoth<:r 600 are on indet1nite layoff. said Phil Rose, president of l'nited Auto Workers Local I II I. -AP 
Occidental Petroleum Corp.,.one or the tar­gest l'nited States' oil companies. has signt:d an interim agr<:em<:nt with China to develop a coal mine in China's Shanxi Province. Tht: company said th<: project is the first major joint venture betwe<:n a Chinese state ent<:rpri~e and a major Western corporation. "Projects such as this benefit both ofour great nations," Occidental Chairman Armand Hammer told reporters in announcing the project here. "It is a great honor for our company to be able to help develop the tremendous natural resources ofChina. while at the same time help­ing solve the world's energy problems." The project calls for development of the Ping~huo open-cut mine, which has reserves estimated at 1.-t billion tons of low-sulphur coal. -AP 

Wall Street Update · 
The StOCk market rallied in late trading Wednesday, recouping more than half its losses from the selloff the day before. Ener!:,')' issues were strong as the Organization of Petroleum Export­ing Countries continued its efforts to agree on unitled pricing and production policies. The Dow Jones average of .)0 industrials, off almost 22 points Tuesday, rebounded 12.86 to 1,1 )2.64. Yolumt: on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 8-t.2S million shares, against ...,9.--1 I million in the previous session. Analysts attributed the decline Tuesday to prot1t-taking after a week-long stretch of record highs for the major market indicators. If there was a catalyst tor that selling, they said, it was probably provided by a recent upswing in open­market interest rates. The daily tally on the Big Board showed about five issues rising in price for every three that declined, and the ex­change's composite index rose .83 to 88.23. Nationwide turnover in NYSE-Iisted issues, including trades in those stocks on regional ex­chanes and in the over-the-counter market. totaled 99.2~ million shares. -AP 

EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 

YOU'RE WASTING YOUR MONEY BUYING ANYWHERE ELSE! 
U 

KINGS c"IEQILULAO!I•. VALUE QUARTS 
"•o•voou MILLER LITE a 99
399 499 799 --. -. ­
BUD.-.-.. ----.-9_29 

~ 7se Ill 1..11 mu us urn OLD 
.-' POPOVYOOKA 1111111 7" MILWAUKEE_-. 7_49 e\! ' BEAM'S BOURBON "I .,,..10" 
8" 
&• 
~ CORDIALS
3" j;,_ ~--5"
..-: Ell BUNDY "'"' 7"illllffil '"" 4"
w 5" ...;.=;..~ 
4" . SOUTHEIII COMFORT ,.., ..
7" PULIIIE LIQUEUR 81>111 
-GUilD M•IIIIEI '""' 16" 
II 
9tt ~~-MEXUXA OUZO 11111 7" 
.,.~ llcGIIIIES.IIISN CIEAM ,,..,7" 

i DEWAR'S SCOTCH"'"' 
~ 
y'.....­
BEAM'S BLEND """' 
1,!
.=,-CASTILLO RUM""· "' BEHEITUGIN•""
' lil 
:....~-. --P'SSPORT SCOTCH,.,., 
. ~ " ' 
-----·t-KAMCHATKA VODKA 
11111111 

~~TEN HIGH 
\~ BOURBON '1111111 
'Curious index' 
Dow Jones reflects stock market 
By MILTON MOSKOWITZ 
Special to the Ohser1•er 
The way most people get their news about the stock market is via a report on the Dow Jones lndu~trial Average. When you a~k how the market did today and the answer comes back,"lt was up 10 points" or "It was down l-1 points," they're talking about the movement of the Dow Jones Industrials. 
It's a curious index to rely upon because the Dow Jones Industrials consist of only :)0 stocks -and they're supposed to mirror the entire market. There are more precise measures -the Standard & Poor's 'iOO and. tht: New York Stock Exchange Index. tor examples ­but the Dow Jones is the measure­ment of choice, probably because it had been around since I 89"". It pays 

CAMEl  ,...  112 
p•uL M•ssoN II IILIGHT '""" SORI• •sTI II II  3" 451  
SPUMANTE  '""  
TAYLOR GES  411  
CHAMPA IIRIUIIITE L1 MIRUSCO  '""  311  

WINESANDCHAMPAGNE 
DEPOSIT $10 KEG 'S4S TAP 
NOREN~~:,~Es'6A";;uRNED 
PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE sTORE ONLY 
.--------------r----­
1 I

IHU~S~,'.!,."" I •••f.:i:L' ~ I SITUI~~2'.!.,01LYI POPOV 't I WINOSORg I ~· 
1 VODKA 61 CANADIAN.:-_. I LOWENBRAU *' 
I 699 I 949 ..,,~ 1 849
1 • 
I I em ~II
I I • 
to be first. 
Tht: Dow Jon<:s list is not static Companies are droppt:d for cause. In 19""6, Anaconda, the copp<:r miner about to be absorbt:d by Atlantic Richfield, was displaced by Min­nesota \1 ining and '•1fg., the miner of Scotch tape. In more recent years Chrysler and Esmark were benched in favor of Mt:rck and IBM. Chrysler, the auto mak<:r, is fighting for its life. (General :\lotors is now the lone car maker ofthe Dow Jont:s Industrials.) E~mark, once the operator of the Swift slaughterhouses, now makes Playtex girdles. Merck is the stand­out performer in the pharmaceutical industry. And you all know what IH:\1 does. (What took it so long to make the Dow jones Industrials~) 
The most recent change came last August :)0 when \1anville, formerh· known as Johns-Manville, was axed, not surprising in view of its filing for bankruptcy for fear of being suff­ocated by the thousands ofasbestos­related suits hanging over its head. And taking its place on the Dow Jones Industrials was American Express. 
American Express was so delighted at gaining entry to the "magic :)0" that it came up with SSS,OOO to buy a full-page ad in the Wall StreetJournal to salute itselffor becoming a "blue-chip." 
The other 25 companies making up the Dow Jones Industrials (in ad­dition to American Expr<:ss, Min­nesota Mining, General Motors, \1erck and IBM) are: Allied Corp.. Al­coa, American Brands, American Can, AT&T, Bethlehem Steel, DuPont, Eastman Kodak, Exxon, Gen~:ral Electric, General Foods , Goodyear. !nco. International Har­v~:ster, International Pap<:r, Owens­Illinois, Procter & (iamble, Sears-Roebuck. Standard Oil of Caliti>rnia, Texaco, l'nion Carbide. 1'nitt:d Technologies, l'.S. Steel, W~:stinghous<: and f.W. Woolworth. 
Esmark to ac_quire Stokely 
Esmark Inc. announced Wednes­day that it will acquire a 2S percent common stock interest in SVC Acquiring Corp., which ha~ an agree­ment to acquire Stokely-Van Camp at SSS a share. Chicago-based Es­mark at the same time will invest SIS million in subordinated debt of SVC acquiring Corp.. and said that "the understanding is subject to the negotiation and executive of detlnitive agreements." An agree­ment with SVC was reached Tues­day, and Esmark said it "no longer is considering any other alternative ac­tions with respect to its position in Stokely-Van Camp," which is based in Indianapolis. -AP 

Good Mon-Thurs ONLY 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/ Student I D 
• Offer not valid with any other Aurelio's special discount or coupon. 
Valid at S.B-'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S. Bend Ave. I 23 at Edison 
OIIIPI'U' ..... -.u,u ..su 

-----·-----­
-------------~~----------~ -­
Thursday, March 10, 1983-page 6
The Observer 
... Rector 

54533 Terrace Lane, South Band(Actoss !tom 
(Hair must be washed day ofcut)

Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 
272·0312 277·1691

SAT. 8:30-5:30 
($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 
PITTSBURGH CLUB Spring Break Bus Schedule 

Buses will leave Notre I 
Dame/CCE &St. Mary's I Buses will return from 
Holy Cross: 1 Pittsburgh Greyhound Friday, March 11 at 4:00pm I Terminal: Happy Hour starts at 4:15 I Sunday, March 20 at 1:OOpm will arrive in Pitt. 12:00am 1 ARRIVE ABOUT 15 MIN. BEFORE SCHEDULED TIMES SEATS STILL AVAILABLE FOR BUS ONE-WAY AND ROUND TRIPS-Call Brian 1743 
continuedfrom page 1 dling situations. small communities living together" Poorman tries to do "a lot of staff 
rather than a single dorm. While this development" so he and his staff can is to a large extent because of the "work together as a team." While he building's design, he encourages is ultimately responsible for every· "very close-knit sections." Poorman, thing that happens in the hall, he en­on the other hand, promotes "hall­courages his RAs to "handle wide unity" to fulfill his role as a pas­situations on their own." He and tor for his community. Noone both believe staff meetings 
All the rectors contacted are important as an "active ex· expressed confidence and reliance change of information." upon the resident assistants. Noone The PACE Report's recommenda· said because of the size of Grace, he tion on RAs is to provide the rectors must "listen to the RAs to arrive at with "adequate staff for servicing 
solutions," and stresses being and maintaining their halls." Noone "consistent within the staff' in han-~ays the towers are "designed to 
ORGANIZATIONAL MeETING 
LaFortune Little Theatre 7:00PM Tuesday March 22 



~~ 1f~ r.~~STEOIN
_,;-'v 
apnl ' HELPING TO RUN INDIVIDUAL EVENTS???? 
have an RAin each section." While Van Wolvlear agrees that would be the ideal, he says the University "can't afford to have two RAs per floor in the towers." He stresses that the existing 41·1 student ro resident assistant ratio is much better than the national average of90·l. 
• • . Pope 
continuedfrom page 4 

welcomed the pope at the Port-au· 
Prince airport as hundreds of 
thousands of Haitians cheered from 
behind a cyclone fence that kept 
them well away from the flower­
bedecked altar for the papal Mass 
and the wooden grandstands 
erected for government and church 
officials, the diplomatic corps and 
the local elite. 

Crowds began gathering at the air· 
pon at 5 a.m. for the arrival of the 
pontiff nine hours later, and by 11 
a.m. many thousands were standing in nearly-90-degree heat. 
Intimates say John Paul has wanted to visit Haiti since he was a teenager in Poland and his father gave him a book telling of the 4,000 
· Polish soldiers who were sent to hold the French island colony for Napoleon. Nearly all died from fever and a lack of adequate equipment, and Haiti became independent in 1804. 
• • • Client 
continuedfrom page 1 

the client to give testimony which 
the lawyer knows to be false. 

Blakey stated that the defendant 
has the right to take the stand ifhe so 
desires, but that the lawyer should 
not knowingly draw false informa­
tion out of the client nor should he 
Robert Blakey 

use the defendent's testimony in 
summing up the case. 

Blakey stressed that "not guilty" 
does not mean "innocent." It means 
instead that the governmem did not 
have enough evidence to prove guilt 
beyond reasonable doubt. 


AYLWMS PCYB RFGQ VB? 
The Army Needs Code Breakers. 
If you want to learn to make sense of scrambled communications and you are a qualified high school graduate, we'll teach you the art of cryptograph. 
Lesson #1: Try Y= A. For more information call your Army Recruiter Sgt. Hamilton at: 234-4187 


In most jobs, at 22 care of sophisticated you're near the bottom equipment worth of the ladder. millions of dollars. 
In the Navy, at It's a bigger chal­22 you can be a leader. lenge and a lot more After just 16 weeks responsibility than of leadership training, most corporations give you're an officer. You'll 'you at 22. The rewards 
have the kind of job ..______....__...,...__.,....., are bigger, too.. There's your education and training prepared a comprehensive package of benefits, you for, and the decision-making au-including special duty pay. The starting thority you need to make the most of it. salary is $17,000-more than most com-As a college graduate and officer panies would pay you right out of college. candidate, your Navy training is geared After four years, with regular promo-to making you a leader. There is no boot . tions and pay increases, your salary will camp. Instead, you receive professional have increased to as much as $31,000. training to help you build the technical As a Navy officer, you grow, through and management skills you'll need as a new challenges, new tests of your skills, Navy officer. ------and new opportunities
2116 I

This trainir~2" is r ~v~;;O~UNIT~ w 1 to advance your edu­
~ INFORMATION CENTER 
designed to instill P.o. Box sooo. Clifton, NJ o7015 cation, including the confidence by first-o I'm ready to takE' charge. Thn me more abo t I possibility of ·attending 
the Navy's officer rrograms. (0C.I 
I

hand experience. You graduate school while 
Nam"----;;:-:--~-----;
learn by doing. On I you're in the Navy. 
First iPiea.. Printl L•••
Address________Apt. #___ your first sea tour, City·______ ziP---J Don't just take a
srate·___ 
you're responsible for I Age....___tCollege/Universit)' I job. Become a Navy managing the work of I officer, and take charge. 
:t:Year in concg tGP 
up to 30 men and the I.t.Major/Mino.-c.-_________ Even at 22. Phone Number·--;-7=-;~:----=:--;;;7:=· I
I 

!Area Code) Best Time to Call This is for ger.eral recruitment imormation. You do not have to fur· 
I

I k~s:w~~&e %C:~ee~~~::h!~:~ d~~=~~~e~~;k?~~~· ,;fhNare;r:,.J;i~ 
L 
tions for which you qualify. MA 9/82 J NavyOfficers 
GetResponsibilityFast. 
i! 
Thursday, March 10, 1983-page 7 





Editorials 
Carry through with Undergraduate Club 
The proposed Undergraduate Club, which won first place in the Operation Brainstorm contest, is an excellent alternative to bars for students under 21 years ofage. 
The University's tolerance of underage consumption of alcohol allows stu­dents to take personal responsibility for their drinking decisions. It is ques­tionable, however, whether the Administration has provided a suitable option for those students who cannot legally buy alcoholic beverages. 
The Undergraduate Club would be located in what is now the Chautauqua. The club would serve non-alcoholic drinks and would encourage socializing and dancing in an informal atmosphere. 
Unfortunately, the Administration has yet to take positive action to implement this idea. Through participation in "Chance to Dance," students have expressed their willingness to hecome involved in non-alcoholic activities. It is no longer a ques­
tion ofwhether the Undergraduate Club format would work, because it has. 
The Administration's main problem with the idea concerns the Placement Bureau, which currently holds interviews in Chautauqua during the day. Both FatherJohn Van Wolvlear, Vice President ofStudent Affairs, and james McDon­nell, director of Student Activities, believe the Undergraduate Club idea has merit, but say nothing can be done until the Placement Bureau is relocated. 
But the proposal, submitted by junior Pete Ciotta, does not propose that the club be open during the hours of placement interviews. With the proper coor­dination, Chautauqua could be shared easily by the Placement Bureau and the Undergraduate Club. Personnel need only fold a few removable walls and rear­range furniture to change the interviewing area into a dance floor and lounge. 
It seems inappropriate that administrators have offered only feeble excuses for a proposal so well suited to more than two-thirds ofthe student body. 

Lottery: much to do about nothing 
Isn't it wonderful? The annual"oh my gosh, what will we do, there's gonna be a housing lottery and I feel so blue" discussion is going on right now. The various student govern­ment organizations are spending their time figuring out how such a heinous thing should be done should it be necessary, fully realizing that when they are done Father Michael Hep­pen will probably ignore them anyway. 
Tim Neely 
My Turn 

So they say the chances of a lottery g01.•6 beyond the threat stage are better than they have been in years. That's what they said last year, and two years ago, and three years ago, and ... I think you get the picture. Yet, past history notwithstanding, plans continue for the dreaded lottery. 
Everyone seems to have an opinion on the matter, myself included, so here are my com· ments on the matter. 
First, how many students should we kick out into the "cold, cruel world"? One student senator suggested no more than one-third of the necessary people and the Hall Presidents Council favored one-halt: each theorizing that those picked would take some friend( s) along with them. Nice try, but there are some off· campus students who live alone now, and wil' live alone in the future. What if all those one­third decided to live alone? We have only made the problem one-third less acute. 
If 275 people must move off campus, pick 275 juniors from the pot -but put them in some order. Those closest to the top of the list, obviously, will have to move off campus. Whether they go it alone or do it with friends will determine if all 275 must go. To those of you with long memori.es, this is somewhat reminiscent ofthe Vietnal'l 'Var birth-date lot­teries; not everyone had tu go, depending on needs. The same applies here. 
In those wartime fish-bowl activities, cer­tain people were exempted from serving. Our duly elected senators believe there should be certain exemptions in a campus housing lot­tery as well. I also believe some exceptions should be made in the event people must be forced off-campus, but nowhere near as many as the Senate believes there should be. 
First, resident assistants should be exempt. 
As anyone who made that position knows, there is a lot of applying, interviewing, and headache involved before one becomes an RA; they deserve to have guaranteed on· campus rooms. Second, scholarship athletes, as they are assured a spot on campus. Finally, the handicapped, for obvious reasons. After those exemptions, I see no reason for any others. 
Elected hall officials should not be exempt, as the Senate proposes. If a hall president is shoved off, I see no reason why he-she cannot stop into the old homestead every so often to find out how things are going. And student senators? When the Student Senate is propos­ing these exemptions, of course they have to put themselves in; it's the American way. Most absurd of all is the idea of exempting the stu­dent body president, vice president, and class officers. They have rt'o right to ask for that. Anyway, the last three student body presi· dents have lived off campus during their tenure -voluntarily. What difference does it make if those officers live off-campus? None at all. 
The other lottery-related issue discussed at the Senate meeting was a proposal by our stu­dent body president-elect, Brian Callaghan, to move seniors-to-be between dorms to balance the number of incoming freshmen. With ideas like that, I have a teeling we elected the wrong man. Even in better years, when more people have taken the urban plunge, there is imbalance between classes in nearly every dorm, based upon variables peculiar to each individual hall. To try to t1ddle with these would be the height of tolly when no one has ever clamored for such a move before. Bag that idea, Brian. 
And about off-campus crime? Maybe I haven't been paying attention, but there has been considerably less written about that sub­ject this year than in any year I can recall. Is the incidence down or are people not report· ing it as much? Knowing how off-campus people like to publicize crime when it occurs, .the tormer seems more likely. 
It mystifies me why so few people are leaving campus this year. As Dennis Ryan pointed out last Friday in a brilliant cartoon, the first to complain about the "restrictive" on-campus rules are often also the first to take arms when talk of a housing lottery stans. If more would move off of their own volition; then all this nonsense about lotteries could be put away tor another year. And wouldn't that be nice? 



P. 0. BoxQ 
Pope for peace 
Dear Editor: 
IfCongressman Washington had upset the establishment in El Salvador, his funeral would have been held several weeks ago. Max Lerner in his column "John Paul and the two religions" (March 9) doesn't seem to realize the difference between the two places. There have been many attempts in the past by "moderate" elements in El Sal· vador to find a political solution, and they usually resulted in the death of the moderates. This is why the Church's posi­tion in favor ofnegotiations which will carry guarantees ofsafety is important. 
Lerner's rejection of the pope's "plague­on-both your-houses postion" and accep· tance of the victory of United States style pluralism is also ethnocentrically myopic. It is the people Lerner wants us to support who apparently engineered the murder of Archbishop Romero and who were involved in the murder of the ti.>ur American Catholic laywomen. Some pluralism of religion! 
The people spoke the truth in the \1ass with the pope: "give us peace!" Elevating our sorry role in the affair of El Salvador to some sort of holy war against a political religion is ridiculous. We should agree with the pope, push for negotiations between two unsavory groups, and do the best that we can to help bring peace to a country sad· ly longing for a true savior. 
Kenneth P.jameson Economics Department 

Responsibility? 
DearEditor: 

Brian Callaghan and Peggy Provoznik haven't even taken oft1ce yet and they are already cozying up to the Administration at our expense. 
Provoznik stormed into Flanner Hall just a few days beti.>re the student body president elections and badgered everyone in our sec­tion to come out and listen to her. After we unanimously expressed our opinion that student government didn't do am·thing for us, she proceeded with a I 0 minute lecture on how apathetic we are and how well she could make student government work ti.>r 

Box Q, .\'otre Dame, I.'V 46556 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Ul'li­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editoriab represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 

us. Now, not one month after the election, she wants to sell the Hanner Hall seniors off campus in the senior lottery. 
I refer, of course, to your \1arch 2 article in which Provoznik and Brian Callaghan recommended that juniors from Hanner, Grace and Carroll halls he selectively kicked oft· campus to save the skins of the juniors in their own, "smaller" dorms -Badin and 
Keenan. 

Why aren't they voicing our outrage at the administration's latest injustice to its stu· dents? Why are they using their positions on the iiall President's Council to further their 
own ends at our expense?  
Callaghan and Provoznik are reenforcing our stereotype of government as a do nothing outtlt.  already student  

The administration in its continuing efii.>rt to increase the size of the freshman classes and line its nest in the process, is selling out the class of 'H-t. !'ather Heshurgh keeps saying bigger isn't necessarily better, hut ac­tions speak louder than words, don't they? 
And what do our future representatives do? Do they voice our complaints' :'llo. They 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief. ............................. Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic SMC Executive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor................................... Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ............................ Joe Musumeci Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
decide to pitch in and help the administra· tion tlnalize its plans. Callaghan and Provoz­nik are acting like they're already campaigning t(>r a spot in Hesburgh's ad· ministrati(in after graduation. 
This isn'f the eftective, responsive student 
,· government Provoznik promised us a month ago. Thank.-; t<>r nothing. 
Tbejuniorsfrom section 8A Ke1>in Binger john]. Rub/mann john]. Markey Cbarlesj.jaylewski Gregg R. Bennett Geoffrey W. Bramgin Raymond M. Falconjr. 
Editor's Note: The appearance of!etters to the editor is subject to the daily space con· straints of the editorial page. Letters should be under 250 words and address specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number, and signature uf the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subject to editing. 


Department Managers 
Business Manager.............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertising Manager....................... Chris Owen Prod<;ction Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakley 
';· 
Founded November 3, 1966 




Slow to ChinQ, quick to pleQsure 
I
n the earlier days of this century. people who looted The ship was originally built to transport American their companies till, impregnated their brothers wife, troops for an invasion ofJapan during World War II. orotherwise committed some heinous deed were often When that spectacle never materialized, the Colum­said to have escaped by taking "a slow boat to China." bitm1lll was converted to a tramp steamer. sailing with a The life ofa seaman was romanticised as a never ending mixed hag ofcargo and crew to the ports of the world. series of booze. broads. and foreign ports. On one voyage, she sailed away from Vietnamese bul­
Nowadays, most of the worlds ships are either huge lets with the last load of refugees from Da-Nang. crude oil tankers that spend their entire useful lives at On Buckley's voyage, the ship is loaded with whiskey, sea since they are too large to enterany port, or they are guns, hall-hearings, and refrigerators bound tiJr Ger­the computerized container ships that have miniscule many. He notes the rather poor conditions on hoard: a crews, and dock in modern antiseptic ports such as toilet that tlushes continuously, another that explodes, Newark, Oakland. and Long Beach. The days when strange maintanence techniques meant to preserve sailors could boast ofseeing such places as Bombay, buoyancy, and innumerable hiding places rigged by the Bangkok. or Istanbul. are almoM over. crew for illegal substances. 
The hook is written around a cast ofcharacters that rivals the circus. There is Fogarty who at various times
Ryan 
has been an undertaker. rattlesnake farmer, mercenary, and is an avid patron ofB-girls. ~liggin b the token intel· lectual in search of himself The captain can best he
Vet Betkmoes 
described as burnt-out. He has spent a lifetime dealing 
with loons ;md is almost as ready for the wreckers as his famous conservative) boarded an old freighter named 
During 1979, Christopher Buckley (son of the 
ship. His life is not made any easier by the chiden­theColumbianna for a voyage into thb colorful way of 
gineer, who plots to drive him honkers. life. The result isSteaming to Bamboo/a in which the 
My favorite character is Yoya, a amicable cook, who is author describes the ship as having a history "written 
alomst killed when the crew learns the vile truth about 
his mystery ingredients. Other high points are the seaman who catches V.D. from his intlatahle doll, and into her hull, a patchwork ofdings and cicatrices from 
3S years of hanging into things on the watery hither· another who keeps the captains coffee warmed by hold­
and-yon." Memorable moments in her past involve run­ning into a docked Coast Guard vessal. As the cutter 
ing it in his mouth. Buckley's ~tyle ofwriting is relaxed. He lets the ab­
went down and Coast Guard sailors dove overboard, surd events in the hook speak for themselves. He is the
theColumbianna's Captain yelled to the crew "don't tell 
interested bystander who dryly observes the lunacy around him. The hook is not all farce, however. In he· tween the personal vignettes, he takes the reader on a few tangents to better illustrate the seaman's ex­perience. A moving chapter is devoted to Snug Harbor, a home for retired sailors, where he meets a few old salts who can remember their days ofsailing. Another chapter concerning the politics of the maritime union does not contain the same human feeling and is not as succesful as others. 
Many ofthe•stories, while amusing, also have a dark side. There is the Greek captain who is hired by ship­owners to sail their·ships out to sea and then sink them for the insurance. When he h(}ards a ship, the sailors can he seen diving off like so many rat~. Fortunately, Buck­ley succeeds in maintaining a hard edge ofreality under the humor. 
Steaming to Bam!Joola is a fast-moving book. It is not a book to he sampled, but rather one to open early in the afternoon and finish a few delightful hours later. For those ofus who will never he able or want to take such a voyage, Buckley's clfort is an enjoyable alternat-ive. 



AT DAWN not G sleeper 
.'!teaming toBamhotl/u, Christopher Buckley. Congdon'and I..attes,lnc., !"Jew 
York, 1982,218 pages, $1~.95. 
0 
ver fortv vears after it hap­concentrated upon the battle itself hack -tO years. pened, the Japanese attack on or on Japan's preparations t(>r war. Prange died in 19HO hct<>re the Pearl Harbor remains a subject of These past works pale, however, in hook was published. However, fascination. Any American over c;o the shadow of the recently before his death he predicted it can tell you where he was when the publishedAt Dall'n We Slept. This might sell I0,000 copies. He greatly news was announced to a stunned monumental book literally underestimated his own talent and country on Sunday morning, represents a lifetime ofwork by Gor­public interest. The hard-hound edi· December-. i9-tl. The ramitka­don w·. Prange. Prange served as a tion was a best-seller and the paper­tions ofthe event continue to he felt historical officer in Tokyo t<>r back version has been selling well in the world two generations later. Douglas MacArthur after the war. He for several weeks. 
later was a professor ofhistory at ti-Je For serious readers,At Dawn We University of Maryland. Starting in Slept is a must read. It is a solid
Ryan 
Japan in 1946, Prange systematically chronicle ofone ofhistory's most interviewed every surviving par­significant battles and also presents a ticipant from both sides. lie was view into a time when things were
Vet Betkmoes 
privy to many classified Japanese much different: when Japan went to war documents. war over American oil, and attacked The attack on Pearl Harbor was What sets the hook apart from with explosives instead ofcars and 
based in Japanese tradition. The others is its scope. Prange has left no stereos. country had always succeeded with stone unturned. It must be con­surprise attacks against stronger op­sidered the definitive work regard­ponents before, thus the final plan ing Pearl Harbor. The first 
settled upon was a natural. Unfor­two-thirds of the book are devoted tunately for theJapanese, even as to events leading up to the attack, 
they left Hawaii in tlames, their including much evidence previous­original plan was doomed. Eight ly unpublished. He presents a vivid American battleships were picture of how an unwilling high 
d~maged, hut they were old and not command was convinced to go part of the Navy's defense plans in ahead with the attack by young of· 1941, and six were later repaired. ficers, how the plan's mastermind Hundreds ofplanes were destroyed, Admiral 'l"amamoto correctly but most were obsolete. What the . predicted the war's outcomt:: in 
Japanese didn't damage were the 19-tO. Best ofall, the reader is able to American aircraft carriers, which a understand the motives and 
mere seven months later suceeded workings of the Japanese mind in sinking several of the Japanese which can be difficult for Amt::ricans carriers th,at launched the Pearl Har­to fathom. 
bor attack. Worst ofall for the What truly makes the account Japanese, they infuriated a nation of shine is its style. The book, despite 150 million resourceful people. its massive length, is fast-paced. The 
Numerous books have been writ­writing is crisp, with a personal ten on Pearl Harbor. Most either quality that transports the reader 

Tb'' JUtes of.\prinx, Brucejacob~en and Rollin Rigg!o~, Priam Book~. Sew York, 1982, 116 page~. 
$-1.95. 
Your RITES to breGk 
"wethought it would he a good way to meet girls." 
"It beats looking t(>r jobs at a hank." 
These two explanations could serve as motives, ulterior or other­wise tor any number ofactivities. However. in the case of Bruce Jacobsen and Rollin Riggs, they were inspiration to write a student's guide to spring break in Florida, The Rites ofSpring. 
Both members ofYale University's Class of'H2 and tormer senior editors of the Yale Daily News, Jacobsen and Riggs conceived the idea ofa student guide in December 19H I while discussing their ~>wn spring break. In a recent interview. Riggs commented. "Florida has been the place to go tor 30 years." Yet, "there really wasn't a guide to tell us how to get a cheap hotel _in Fort Lauderdale or find the cheap bars or stuff like that, and we said, 'That's odd."' 
The Rites ofSpring opens with a chapter entitled, "Things Mom 
Satah Hamilton 
Won't Tell You." Now although Mom may tell you some of these things, the authors do mention a few more-than-helpful hints among their list of twelve, such as the least cxpensvt:: rental car company, the possibility of a condominium as an alternative to a hotel. and what not to pack. 
What ensues i~ the heart of the hook, S-i worth of the S-!.95 pur­chase price. During their 19H I spring break. J acohsen and Rigg~ visited I<; cities or area~. exploring the hotels. restaurants, bars, campgrounds, attractions, etc. In Tbe Rites of.\jJring they compiled and summarized their tlndings in an individual chapter for each of the cities. 
An introduction, highlighting the city in question begins each chapter. This provides the student with a tlavor for the city, along with ideas for activitie~ other than sunning and drinking and drink· ing and sunning. !'or example. Captiva and Sanibel Islands are pictured as "Florida's secret hideaways ...unspoiled gems on Florida's warm Gulf." Meanwhile, Fort Lauderdale is descrhcd as offering "sun, suds, surf and sex." Obviously, the two would entice very different types ofstudents. Or, perhaps. tht:: same student might seck refuge on Sanibel after experiencing Fort Lauderdale. 
Most chapters also list hotels and prices accompanied by a few editorial commenb, nearby campgrounds, popular bars and res­taurants, special attractions and other useful phone numbers and ad­dresses. Maps ofsome of the major student spots arc included. Jacobsen and Riggs seem to have done a fairly complete job in their research and have presented a very readable guide tor ~pring­breaking students. 
One and a half million students invade the sun~hine state from February through April every year. The Rites ofSpring is for those people, or "anyone who wants to see the student's Florida -the most fun for minimal funds ..."according to the hook's introduc­tion. Riggs explains, "We wrote the hook for two types ofstudents. Number one would he the first time spring breaker. the person who is totally naive, to tally ignorant about Florida and the hot spots ... the second group would he the veteran spring breaker, the person who has been to Daytona Beach three years in a row. maybe and is totally sick ofit, hut still wants to go to Florida for spring break and doesn't know where to go ...and so we cover ...some of the lesser known spots." 
For the first time ~pring breaker, Riggs recommends Daytona Beach, as opposed to Fort Lauderdale, which he describe~ as a 2-t hour Roman orgy. Although it can be chilly in early \larch. Riggs feels Daytona provides more beautiful beaches, a more varied nightlife, and more side trip~. 
The current economic rccesson may deter some students from away-from-home ~pring vacations hut Riggs does not think Florida will he lacking visiting students. "They will probably see more stu­dents than ever th~ year ... When money b looser they can aftord to go skiing or to Bermuda. When money is tight, more and more people have to save money and Florida is extremely cheap." The free lance photo journalist and recently published author concluded with a smile and a chuckle, "And with our hook it's even cheaper." 
Thursday, March 10, 1983-page 9 
The Observer 
• • • Paxson 

conrinuedfrom page 12 
At Raleigh on Feb 12, Paxson scored just six points but his 
poise in running a slowdown offense spread throughout the 
youthful Irish, and .\ID was able to pull off a 43-42 upset. Four 
days later, he was limited to only ten points but again his 
patience and crisp passing enabled Notre Dame to shoot a 
season-high 66 percent, mostly on layups, en route to a 60-54 
win. 
Gone are the days of"John Paxson and the Four Assistmen," 
and for Paxson, it is good riddance. 
"Last season was the worst athletic experience I've ever 
had," says the 6-2 guard, whose teams had lost just 19 games in 
six years before last season. "At times we knew we were going 
to lose, and I've never been in that position. That was the first 
time I really felt frustrated. I had never lost that much in high 
schooL 
"What's helped me most this year is the freshmen (Tim Kempton, Ken Barlow, Jim Dolan, Joseph Price and Joe Buc-. hanan ). There's something about those five kid!> -they've got a kind of confidence that I haven't seen in a freshman class here. By the time they get out of here, they're going to be something. 
"Last year, we didn't have an inside game," continues Pax­
son, who stands tenth on the Irish all-time scoring list with 
1,324 points. "Now a team can't just worry about me. They 
have to worry about the inside game. That's been the biggest 
help. 
''I'll be sorry to leave Notre Dame. I owe much to the llni­versity and to Coach Phelps, and I'm glad to be leaving on a successful note." 
*: 

"He always went to the camps wbere the best basketball was being played. Tbe intent was tbere-he wanted to be better, to consistent(y improt•e."-Jim Paxson Sr. 
The Paxson family of Hill *Road in Kettering, Ohio, is laden with basketball tradition. John's father, Jim Sr., was an all­American at Dayton and played two years in the NBA, having been the third selection in the 1956 draft (behind the considerably-less-humble Bill Russell and Tommy Heinsohn). John's brother, Jim Jr., also was a standout at Dayton and is currently an all-star with the NBA's Portland Trail Blazers. An­other brother, Mike, is a walk-on at Ohio University. 
Sports-outdoors and indoors -was always a way oflife in the Paxson household. Outside, it was basketball, baseball and football. Inside, it was shoot-the-roHed-up-pair-of-socks­through-the-Iampshade ("John's favorite." says his mother Jackie) and, ofcourse, tootball-in-the-living-room. 
Growing up, John was a standout in baseball and football in addition to basketbalL Naturally, basketball won out. "Ever since they were little, we've always encouraged sports as part of the total person," says Jim Sr. "Sports instills 
discipline in youngsters that they can't get anywhere else. 
They were honed on basketball, and every summer all of the boys went to camp. We didn't push them; in fact they knew of all the camps and say to me. 'These are the ones we want to go to."' 
"With other sports (besides basketball) there was no pressure for the kids to follow their dad's footsteps," adds Jackie. "Jimmy felt more comfortable with basketball and he wasn't worried about any comparison with his father. Johnny became interested too, because the two of them could go out in the backyard anytime and play." 
"Comparison" is a dirty word with the Paxson family. In comparing two entities, one inevitably is judged to be worse than the other. 
In fact, avoiding those comparisons was the primary reason John Paxson, who was an all-stater at Dayton's Archbishop Alter High School, chose to attend Notre Dame insteag of his hometown school. 
"I really didn't consider Dayton," says John. "Jim had just graduated from Dayton, and if I had gone there they would have compared us. We're two different players and the com­parisons would have been unfair to both of us." 
.\1any Dayton loyalists, however. didn't buy John's reason­ing. On March 1, 1980, John Paxson returned to his hometown with his new team -to a chorus of boos. The sensitive, seemingly unflappable, freshman took the court with tears in his eyes. 
"The boos hurt him," says his father. "What upset him the 
most was that they didn't understand him as person." 
"Yeah, I took it kind of hard that first year," remembers John. "But everything's OK now. I still hear about it once in a while -usually when I'm home during the summer when I'm out at a bar or something." 
Two year~ later -March 6, 1982 -John Paxson, now one of the premier guards in college basketball, returned once again with his team to Dayton Arena ...to a standing ovation. 
He had won over even his harshest critics. 
"He's a bonafide first-round* draft pick." Marty Blake, Director ofScouting for the NBA. 
*
The site is dilapidated Chicago Stadium, where the equally sad Bulls are playing host to the Portland Trail Blazers, featur­ing their All-Star guard, Jim Paxson. 
Portland wins easily, and Jim is superb, scoring 34 points and securing player-ofthe-game honors. 
Sitting in the stands is his brother John, glaring intently at the action -mostly in admiration ofhis older brother, partly daydreaming to the day when he too may fult11l a lifelong dream and play in the NBA. 
"I really admire him and respect him," says John of Jim. "He's gotten where he has by using his head. He's constantly in motion -he just tlgures that there's nine other guys on the 
floor but only one ball, so he's got to go after it. 
"He's able to do things I can't ­ he's four inches taller, so he  
can  post  up his  man  better  - but I feel  I'm the better  
playmaker."  

It tookjim Paxson just four seasons to achieve NBA All-Star status after gaining all-America honors at Dayton. It's obvious that he knows what it takes to succeed, and he seesjohn being just as successful as a professional. 
"Playing against him the last couple of years (in pickup games), I think he's a very good player and I think he'll make it," says Jim. "I think he has the talent and the smarts to be a successful player." 
But college basketball is certainly not the NBA, where defense is non-existant, speed is king and high scores are the rule. The league's best playmaking guards -Philadelphia's Mo Cheeks and L.A.'s Magic Johnson -are pinpoint passers, excellent shooters and can each outrun a cheetah. Both are black. 
"For a point guard they (NBA teams) always think white guys are too slow," says Jim, ''so he'll have to overcome that stigma. There's been a lot ofguys that didn't average 20 points a game that came on to be very successful players. As long as he plays well, he'll be able to do it." 
On the other hand, two of the best players in recent NBA history -Boston'sJohn Havlicek and New York's Bill Bradley -were slow, white swingmen. 
John is optimistic at his chances tor success in the pros. 
"I think I'd make a good point guard who can set up others for good shots and hit the jumper when I'm open," he says. "I've always been a role player, a team player, who can adjust to whatever the team wants me to do. I really don't know where Istand with in their eyes but I'm going to give it a shot." Digger Phelps is even more contldent. "The NBA is detlnitely in his future," he savs.
* . 

Tomorrow: Tbe other side of]obn Paxson the student and the man. 
• • • Overtime 

co111inuedfro111page 12 
ceptional final seven minutes. 
"This is easily the program's biggest win. And to come in a 
do-or-die situation makes it that much more satisfYing.'' 
But Ruth Kaiser put it in perspective. "We're 20-7! I think 
that makes us the Best in the Midwest -there's nothing more 
you can ask for." 
Except maybe for lightning to strike -again. This time in a big tournament game. IRISH ITEMS -No Notre Dame basketball team ofeither sex had ever won two consecutive overtime game~ before. 







Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING 
Jackie Boggs 
684-8793 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
TYPING IN MY HOME (resumes. letters. reports. term papers. etc.). NEAT. AC­CURATE WORK. REASONABLE RATES 233-7009 
Attention Hop1ng to WINCH a wench or ANCHOR a dude for your cab1n m FLORIDA next week? Well take a BOW on land OAR sea. DECKed out 1n your very own N 0 SAILING CLUB T-shlrt. Call Lou at 6713! · 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. VERY REASONABLE RATES CALL287-5162 
Get your LUCKY LEPRECHAUN and take h1m home over spnng break to celebrate St Patnck s Day ONLY $10 00 at the NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 

LOST/FOUND 
FOUND NOTRE DAME JACKET AT STEPAN COURTS ON FEB 24/25 IDENTIFY COLOR AND SIZE AND ITS YOURS CALL MIKE AT 277-2653 
LOST A bnght blue knapsack w1th a suede bottom It conta•ned a notebook. keys and calculator PLEASE return to room 334 P W or call 2722 The contents are needed lor a group protect Thank 
you 
PRINCE CHARMING Please return CIN­DERELLA s Sliver shoes that were used In B-Ps Screw-Your-Roommate rm go•ng barefoot now Drop lhem outs1de 143 B-P. 1992 No questions asked 
HELP-I LOST MY SILVER BRACELET 1n the th1rd floor gymnast1cs room at the Rock on fnday 3-4-83 atternoon REWARD" Call Anne at 2968 PLEASE" 
LOST AT GRACE FORMAL FRI So4 I LEFT MY HAT AND UMBRELLA IN THE CLOAKROOM IF FOUND PLEASE CALL BOB AT 8842 
To the beauttful women who found my LAUNDRY CARD You have not called this week and left any demands Please return· I NEED MY LAUNDRY BEFORE I LEAVE FOR BREAK NICK x8232. 
LOST A Khaki overcoat w1th pla•d limng It"s a London Fog lrom Brooks Brothers Please call8152 1llound Reward thanks 
FOUND ROOM AND MAIL KEYS IN MEN S RESTROOM IN ENG BUILDING CALL JIM 1498 HI JEAN. ONLY 2 MORE DAYS! 
LOST BLUE/TAN REVERSIBLE SPRING JACKET NEAR CUSHING 


FOR RENT 
House 4 bedroom. near ND. $250 per 
mo.Fall or  summer.  No ut1ht1es  Phone  
(319) 322-8735 Patty  
FURNISHED  HOMES  FOR  NEXT  

SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277­3604 
Student Rental. 5-bedroom home $420 mo 233-6779 
902 N NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE. GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON HEAT. $335/MONTH 684-0933 (LOCAL CALL) 


WANTED 
RYDPLEEZ? MPLS SPRBRK DAVE 3039 thanx 
ATLANTA atlanta ATLANTA Need nde to Atlanta tor break Can leave Fnday noon Maybe someone gotng thru FLORIDA can help Call Dave al x6931 
RIDE NEEDED TO ST LOUIS AREA for break Call Mary at 287-0372 
Need 2 b1cycles Call 7796 Baulo Knschke Need 2 ndes to and/or from BALTIMORE OR D C area Can leave Thurs atter 3 00 W1ll share usual Call John 288­5527 or Charles 1688 

NEED RIDE TO BALTOMORE ·WASH­INGTON AREA FOR SPRING BREAK CALL JANET 282 -2276 
Fort Lauderdale NEED RIDE!! 277­2369.00 NOT CALL AFTER tOPM 
Need nde to Rochester. NY. tor break Call Will or Dan at 867 4 
A•ders needed to N NJ-Southern NY area. Cheap Call Dan al8795 or 8836 
DC-MD-VA Need nde to D C lor break Can leave at· ter noon Fnday Call Pete at 277-0838 
I DESPERATELY need a nde to lhe MIAMI area I Will gladly share expenses and leave anyt1me DAN 1809 
Need nde to MINN lor break Share usual Call8813 
Need nde back to NO lrom BUFFALO area atter break call John 6775 
RIDERS WANTED TO SCRANTON PA OR VICINITY CALL CHRIS AT 3510 ANYTIME 
need nde to Chicago northwest suburbs for spnng break call2906 
EXTREMELY DESPERATE' NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN NEW JERSEY OR NEW YORK CITY CAN LEAVE FRIDAY BY I 2 NOON WILL SHARE ANYTHING' PLEASE CALLJERRY AT 3893! 
Atders to Detrotl needed. one-way. fnday Mar 4 Bob. 3360 

FOR SALE 
USED. OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY­JEFFERSON INTERSECTION 
FOR SALE 1980 Yamahopper MC Low m•leage. ·Excellent cond1110n -5300 Please call Dan at x6824 

PERSONALS 
HEY HEY HEY 
Like. Istill need a nde to Canton, Ohio for Fnday Please call Cmdy at 2948 so I can go Home. Sweet Home 
Karla-
Have a great spnng break and save up all your hugs tor me next week Mtss you already 
J1m 
ONE or TWO RIDES needed to lhe GAR· DEN STATE tor Spnng Break Yes. we do want to go to NEW JERSEY for break W1ll pay the uusual Please tPLEASEi call Sarah at 1361 or Mary at 1272. Please!!!'! 
CONNECTICUT bound?' We need (desperately) ONE or TWO ndes to CON· NECTICUT for Spnng Break. Please call Mary at 1272 orSarah at 1361 Will pay the usual 
ATLANTAatlanta ATLANTA need ndeto Allanta for break Can leave Fnday. noon Call Dave at 6931 
L1nle S•bs-Buttalo-Phrladelph•a Anyone who has brothers/ststers comtng lor Little S1bs Weekend. Apnl 15-17. buses from the Buftalo and Ph•ladelph•a area are bemg organtzed Roundtnp fare Buftalo $43 and Ph1lly $64 Reg1strat•on forms available 1n the Student Govern­ment Off1ce Deadline IS March 15 
DC-MD-VA Need nde to D C · area for break Can leave alter noon on Fnday Call Pete at 277-0838 
R1de needed to 0 Hare a<rport Fnday. March 11 Must arnve before 2 p m Ch1cago lime Call Dava at1361 (I need a nde back on the 19th too ) 
R1de BACK needed' Are you commg back from break on Thursday or Fnday? W111 you be passmg through Atlanta? Could you ptck me up? I need a nde back early! Please call Jeb at 8641 Thanks 
DENISE Don t forget me at the tram stat1on 
Love. Sam 
The Observer wtll accept classlfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p m However. classtfteds to appear tn·the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to msert1on. All classtheds must be prepaid. e1ther 1n person or through the mall 

C1ndy and Kathy· 
Hope Oh1o and Pennsy can take your w•ld party1ng over the break · Don t forget to take 11 easy and relax Have a good one 
MARCH 12 a spec1al day to celebrate for Rob(St Ed s) and Pat(Keenan)l Your birthday buddy lrom Walsh 
Two days lelt and I Still don t have a nde to 0 Hare PLEASE' I am one desperate woman W1ll pay more than the usual I have to be at the a<rport by 2 00 p m Chicago t1me I w11l be eternally grateful for any offer at a nde tor 1f you have abet­ter offer) Call Dava at 1361 that s desperate Dava 
to SELA 
(my hot tamale) you are my Aura Bormg 
Allee your MAN lor all seasons ED 
HARE. We have to get together somet1me before break & d1scuss the v1rtues of short ha1r Be at the Marna! ton1te w/ tankard & lambounne 1n hand & together we II seek converts Your la•thful servant. MJW 
McGann-Was the cook1e as sleazy as you? rm Still wa1t1ng and I st1ll want 1!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TEDDY-BEAR 
HeyFOS: 
Ill bet you w1sh you were head1ng to 
Padre Island tTX) 1nstead of 
Kalamazoo enJOY the snow. sleet and 
slush. Booom. Booom1 'too cool 
Grappling IS done 
It s t1me to have fun 
Too bad that ol Elk art 
Just don t get I he sun 
(don t worry babe. Ill get a tan lor the both 
of us!) lovtn you more than ever -a 
lazy fmance maJor from the world senes 
c1ty March 21 wont be a letdown.•ts lUSt 
tradtng Flonda sunlight lor the REAL light 
1n my life! Have a wonderful break (even 1f 
you ARE 1n Elkhart! luv. DO . 
too cool . eh worscheh? that s not what the b19 word IS on cold and snowy D-2.. ' heard your k1nda HOT actually love. guess-who-trom-St Lou 
teddy oh. how 11ove my u s male!!! cc 
LORI ROSENTHAL Happy B1rthday on Saturday! The W1ld 3rd Floor Fresh 
Hav1ng to ed1t someth1ng of your own that you really l1ke IS much hke commJtttng sell-rape Lost 1n lhe assault on my column yesterday was a dedJcatJon for my last column as Features Editor 
Though I wtll wnte 1n the future. as otten as people Will let me. Iw111 m1ss the contact w1th all the vanous people who do so much to make th1s place more than a glonlled employment agency To these people th1s column IS warmly ded1cated. especially to Rev Robert Gnllm and Bruce Oakley. who. through thoughtful example. have helped me understand my love of wnttng and the people I wnte for 
Thanx, 
JceM 
R1ta & M1ke ND and SMC say good-bye 
and Thanks for VISiting! Its beer. great' 
Love Janet & Sandy 
Spnng Break opt1on Buck hunttng 1n ex­OIICNiles1 
Ha' You Guys!! Scali. Mgroner. Preppa and Aloth. thanks for mak1ng my day ­literally!! 
Arrahr' Fuc1a Tnple. K , L , & Loser! Scared of us •n F L.! Be fuc1a. green and tan' Beach the whale away lrom liquor & Ralph' Mondo teal. but Wish you best. Be•ge Til. 
MaryS II you don t ~•v up I won t show you the brUTse on my knee 
V1vtan and Karen . 
Thank you so much'. tor the cook1e · now 1fonly some of uscoul¢tbife 1nto you two 11 would really make our, day! 
Love Flfst floor Keenan 
DALLAS RbCKS 
Yes folks those two_ wtld and crazy party animals from The Off1ce will be jet­ting into lhe Lone Star state and setting the big D on its ear. Pity poor b1g sis, forced to put up with two fun loving col· lege boys through !heir soph spring break! This could be the end ol Dallas. folks. so say your goodbyes now. before ils too late. 
.~ 

The Observer Thursday, March 10, 1983 -page I 0 
Now's the time to say 'thanks' to Paxson 
If ever there were a college basketball player that was a worthy hardship case, it had to be John Paxson. 
The typical hardship situation involves a player faced with supporting his parents and/or wife and children and/or girlfriend and children. 
But the number ofdependents Paxson could have claimed on his Form 1040 would have been a C.P.A.'s delight. He was, after all, carrying 12 or 13 young men all by himself last year. 
Sometimes, when the player in less severe financial straits opts to play for pay before running out of eligibility, the rationale is that, by staying in college, the player runs the risk ofseri~us injury that could destroy his earning capacity. 
Paxson, resembling John Wayne lost in the middle of a "Little Rascals" out-take during last winter's 10-17 nightmare, ran a far greater risk ofinjury to his sanity. 
Somehow, though, he survived. And the young Notre Dame team that finds itselfon the brink of the Tournament has Pax­son to thank. 
"He's always been unselfish," says Digger Phelps. "John feels that, if the team is to accomplish anything, it's going to have to be as a team. 
"What he's done this year, in terms of blending our young 
players and getting them to play with confidence, is only be­
cause of what John has sacrificed. He's given up scoring 30 
points a game and now we're playing with balance on offense 
and defense." 
Those kind ofattributes, and now the fact that he is current· 
ly tenth and climbingon Notre Dame's all-time scoring list, are 
Craig Chval 
Sports Writer 
whyJohn Paxson stands head and shoulders above the crowd. 
While outstanding basketball players might not exactly be a dime a dozen at Notre Dame, they're certainly more common than leftover ice cream at Saint Mary's. Bur none of the greats ever had to endure what Paxson had to live through last season. 
Even so, Paxson refused to give in. When it seemed that Notre Dame's only chance ofscoring was Paxson throwing up a 35-foorer with ten hands in his face, he passed the ball to a teammate. 
When it became apparent to even the most casual observer that Paxson was engaged in a hopeless game of one-on-nine, he refused to admit it. 
"He handled it with class," Phelps says simply. "John's a sensitive person, and he's been that way since he was a fresh· man. Because of his sensitivities, he's very aware of other people's sensitivities and treats everybody as a person and with dignity. That's the one human trait that makes John the 
type ofperson that he is." 


~~ ~RIDGLT ~cGUIRL'S' 
~ 
---'• 
·­

Big "Bud" Bash Thurs 
UPCOMING PARTfES $2.50 Pitchers 
3/17 ........ St. Pat's Party 

55e Drafts 75e Cans 
3/24 ... "Little Kings" Party
Til Mi~nite 3/31 ... "Stroh" a Party Nite

Win some "Bud" Attire for your vacation wardrobe 
4/4 ..... Dyngus Day Party 

EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH . AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
.... 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation? Under a special ~avy program we're doing just that. It's called the ;\uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it, you'II not only get great pay during your junior and senior ~·ears. but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciences. find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. 
For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: 
. 1·800-382-3782 
Movin'out? 
RENT A 



RYDER TRUCK 
If you·re I 8 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way lrent-lt-here.leave-it-rhere) tnp to another c1ty 
Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end of the semester W1th a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or tw<'l other people <tnd their rhmgs. so you c<tn share the costs. Compare that ro a plane tiCket Or even a bus. 

Rent from the best-maintained. most dependable fleet 1n ,R 
1 the world Ryder The best truck money can rent ......... 

Regular Bridget's""' Bargains 
Mon·Tues...7·10 25¢ Beer Wed· 241 Vodka Drinks Thurs ·Party Nite Fri & Sat· Beat The Clock 
_... ......... ... ... Daily 241 Happy Hour 4·7 
,,,, 
..\roli'L•.... 

Any oneway rental card rate ---\\ I 10°/o with this c9upon and your Student/Faculty 1,0. 
Through June 30, 1983 
Offer Good at 2715 N. Bendix Drive, S.B. 
OFF 

RYDERTRUCKRENTAL 
2715N. BENDIX DR South Bend 

The wonderful thing about John Paxson is that all the success in the world-and he's earned his share ofir-hasn't changed him one bit. 
"He always has his values and his priorities in order," mar­vels Phelps, "and he doesn't let anything detract him from those." 
In these times of insanity, which see athletes earning one million in a single season and others being bribed not ro eat themselves into oblivion, it boggles the imagination to think that the public might owe anything to one ofthese prima don­
nas. 
There is, however, one exception. 
John Paxson plays his last home game for Notre Dame tonight. Put down your books, put down your beercan, put off your trip to Florida for two hours, and come and say "thank you" to John Paxson. Not for being a great basketball player, which he is, but for doing more good for Notre Dame's image and reputation than five Sports Illustrated articles could ever do. 
Women's Bookstore 
•


sign-ups 

Women's Bookstore Basketball signups will take place on Thursday, March 24 from 6 to H p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. More derails on the tournament will be an­nounced sometime after break. -The Observer 
The Notte Dame Student Union needs 
ENTHUSIASTIC, HARDWORKING, AND mOTIVATED PEOPLE 
to assume nextyeat's COmmiSSIONER POSITIONS 

Applications may be picked up at the Student Union Office on the second floot of Lafortune 
Deadline: match 11 

After your18$1exam, what toughquestions will you still befacing? 

W: don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions. 

share some of ou~ own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood. the Holy Cross Fathers· One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contacl. Rev. Andn: Leveille. C.S.C. Vocation 01rector · Box 541 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 
219-239-6385 

---~-----~-~----~ ---------------------~~--~~~~-----------------------­
Ihe~rver========================================== 


~~4()l~~===========================T=h=ur=s=d=ay='=M=a=rc=h=1=0=,=1=9=8=3===p=ag=e=l=l
Bloom County 
r~ "~A~~~~·,; Jt 4~1 .:.f.\~ ~, •...:1\ ':J IINI\U. ci111VT[,, !-{)\), ~'Etf~~ •l_;;... ... ·t1,, .. ~ ·~.
> 

NOir:~.L· •r1 t . ./J..J.)i ;~·;;·: ..•• ~-. 


Simon 
Fate 
t"\A'IBt \IS J(A<;f ME, \\\AT H~V[ YOU. EVER NOfl CfD 
1-1uw MANY Pl\1 Rs oF 
Si~I1ESE IW!NS THE:Rt 
M£ AROlAN!) HER£? 
I 

.-:----__,.----, 
f.".,',·-.--: :.;: ~;.,;_ Vf"~V'": 1J-l;:.T I(.•_' 'If :-;<-<_!. ~PC"'TC' 
• y ~~ JIO..,..~ AC ·~~;c.~ ;N 
i'\ Pfi<Ff(l~Y ­-~·v:,::t.:· "~"Nt-1<: 

WHY /X) YO{} $Pf06E 
YOU 8oY5 !ON'T f/5K
GIRl j OUT t1tJCH 
THE5E DI1Y5 ;" 
\ 
\T 1"1\AST B( fiWFUL To 
llt .JOiNED Ptf?_MI>-.NENIL'/ iO~tTHER. AT THt Hf\Nll') . 



The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Berke Breathed 



Jeb Cashin 
(1/N'T f/GIJ(ff IT 
OUT. JU5T C!IN T 
f/6{/!f£ /T., 
( 


Photius 

WELL, 1 5uPPO':.t I CAN THtNI:. or WO(S[" 
OR TO\?,[ J'OINED 
AT THE HIP WAYS TO 40 fH ROUC,fl UFt 
\ 




Campus 

•6:1 
5 and 7 p.m. -Christo Films, "Valley Cur­tain," and "Running Fence." Annenberg Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -AIESEC Meeting, Lafortune, Little Theatre 


•'"'. 9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Filmore," Ch.mtauqua Coffee House, Sponsored by NDSU 
•8 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Northern Iowa. ACC Arena 

•H 
p.m. -Chicago Symphon• Orchestra, WSND-FM HH.9 

•H:l 
5 p.m. -Concert, "The Renaissance Chan­son," Great Hall in O'Shaughnessy 



:_ T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2H 34 :'>-2-1 Contact 
6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 34 Making It Count 
7p.m. 16 M*A*S*H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
7:30p.m. 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
Sp.m. 16 Fame 22 Magnum, PI 28 Condo 34 All Creatures Great and Small 
8:30p.m. 28 Amanda's 
9p.m. 16 Gimme A Break 22 Simon and Simon 28 Too Close for Comfort 34 Mystery 
9:30p.m. 16 Cheers 22 Family Feud 28 It Takes Two 
10p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 I Claudius 
11p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2H 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
· The Far Side 


... 

• 
ACROSS 1 -Gordon 6-morgana 
10 Org. 14 Vampire 15 Limerick 
man 16 Josip Broz 17 Corrosives 18 Old French 
coins 19 Repute 20 -Mountain 
Landis of baseball 22 Paying 
guests 24 Ninny 25 -Dimittis 26 Tiny 27 Great 
lovers 

31 "-was 
going to ..." 33 Latin poet 34 Musician's 
engagement 35 Trued 38 Conundrums 40 Up the creek 
without­41 Antarctic penguin 42 "-for the 
Seesaw" 43 Squirming 44 Muffin 45 Destructive 
blazes 47 Rpms 49 Necklace 
unit 51 Jolson and others 

52 "Shrink" 54 Exploded 58 Ensign's 
school monogram 
59 Utah state flower 61 Woman in 
white 62 Early TV 
character 63 Vicinity 64 Gaggle 
members 65 Golf pegs 66 River to 
North Sea 67 Chemical compound 
DOWN 1 Ack-ack 2 Tatted 
material 3 Ugandanof disrepute 4 Lofty seat for a lady 5 King of 
Morocco 6 Aviated 7 Former 
govt. org. 8 Zodiac sign 9 Pyromania 
10 Minute bit 11 Snake 

21 Highest point 23 City in Florida 25 Broken-down horse 27 Name for 
Persephone 28 Greedy 29 Passing 
look 30 Power 32 Secondary 
problems 35 Footless 36 She: Fr. 37 Ottoman 
officials 39 Full of branches 40 Shoemaker's tool 
42 Prescrip· tion let· ters 
45 Irrigates 46 Projecting 
rim 47 Crypt 48 Follow 50 Lamb 
specialty 53 Places 54 Wild pig 55 Weight 
allowance 56 To be: Latin 
12 Boutique 57 Open season 13 Language of prey 
3/10/83 the Vikings 60-whiz! You're STILL a fly?" 
r...,.............,...........,................ .............................~..,.~.........,..~.......~...,...,............,...,_,...........,....,..1
~ 

~ The Notte Dame Student Union needs \ 
! ENTHUSIASTIC, HARDWORKING, I \ AND mOTIVATED PEOPLE ~ 
~ to assume next yeat's \ 
taken o~~ ~OQ the Sun ­
~ commiSSIONER POSITIONS ~ ~ Applications may be picked up at the Student ~ 
We'll open aqa1n on the 
•
i Union Office on the second floot of LaFottune. ~ 
· Webnesbay Back rRom BQeakL________________.P.~~c!I!~!.!..ID__<~t~nJ!._______J I: ••»Wm.l~ll!'IWH-~-G:-~::.ti~·· '!' ,, 

" ­
r 


NCAA Tournament next? 


Women defeat Indiana in overtime 
By MIKE RICCARDI Hoosier forward Rachelle Bostic, going to do our best to give it back Sports Writer who, finding herself wide open on (to Ill)." 
the baseline, popped in 10 points As they had done before, It's been said that lightning never over the 5-4 Metheny's picks. however, the Hoosiers climbed hack strikes in the same place twice. The second half was a matter of into it, as Metheny banked in a shot Yesterday at the ACC -with push coming to shove -with neit­to knot the score at 44. Bate~ scored everything on the line -it did. her side gaining the advantage. the next three Notre Oame baskets 
Notre Dame, coming off a Notre Dame was not without oppor­while IU could onlr counter with a breathtaking overtime win over tunities to put Ill away, however, as Methany score, giving the Irish a 50­O;Jyton Sunday, came off the canvas the Irish reeled off six consecutive 46 cushion. to take Indiana University to points to put the Hoosiers in another Julie Kronenberger scored four overtime and came through again in eight-point hole. points to key a late H-2 Ill spurt that the extra period to gain its 20th win The second halfsaw the Irish hold seemed to give the Hoosiers control in heart-stopping fashion, 63-61. the Hoosiers' key inside players, of the game, 56-53, in the final 
The victory also put the Irish, who Bostic and center DeniseJackson, to minute. 
are reportedly assured ofa bid to the a grand total of six points in the However, after Metheny missed Women's NIT in Amarillo, Texas, in second half. Schueth and Bates were the back end of a one-and-one, the thick of the hunt for a berth in responsible iur the wraps on the Kaiser began her heroics -putting the big show -the NCAA Tourna­pair. the Irish back into the show with a ment. "Denise hasn't been feeling well," banker underneath from a nice 
Carrie Bates' driving layup off said Indiana coach Maryalyce Dougherty feed. Ruth Kaiser's inbound pass sent the Jeremiah ofher star who was limited From there, a host ofheroes, quiet match into overtime after Indiana to just 24 minutes on the court. "It and otherwise, paced Notre Dame. had gained its biggest lead of the hurts to lose your top scorer and In addition to Kaiser and Bates at the 
.,.-::;::::. 
.. _....._

game, 57-53, in the last minute ofthe rebounder. The only reason we offensive end, Schueth and Denise 

......__
..,.,.~.

match. were in the game was good Basford, who played only the final ~\ Assistant Coach Patrick Knapp defense." 1:23, tipped Ill's passes all over the designed the Kaiser-to-Bates in­Irish coach Mary DiStanislao, on ACC fluor and played inspired bound and it clicked perfectly. the other side, was counting her defense. Bates, for whom the bucket would defensive blessings. "We forced "Denise gave us just a 
cap off a game-high 18-point eve­them Oa.:kson and Bostic) into phenomenal minute." said DiS(anis­
Carrie Bates, shown here in a game earlier this season; was one of 
ning, bulled to the hoop, in st;<rk playing in fits and starts. I'm very lao. "The whole team put in an ex-
the many heroes in last night's win over Indiana. It was Bates' shot 
contrast to the pretty inbound pleased with the defensive effort, al­
see OVERTIME, page 9 with 5 seconds left in regulation that tied the score and sent it imo
which Kaiser had threaded to her. though it seemed that we were 
the extra period. 
"It was a very simple play," sa1d Knapp. "You could have drawn it in the ground with a stick. Now, I guess, everybody will have us scouted to run it." 

John Paxson: The Quiet Superstar 
Kaiser, who finished with 10 points, tallied six of those in the last .. minute and the extra frame. The 6-0 sophomore, whose night had been 
ND's all-American bids 
un-spectacular to that point, simply took charge when the verdict was on the line. 

farewell to ACC tonight 
"I guess that makes me a good Catholic," said Kaiser. "Wt> had been 
First oftwo parts

working on something (Assistant 
Coach Mary Ellen) Murphy calls 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
'truck and trailer' drill, where one of 
Sports Editor 
our inside people drives to the hoop and powers up. That's exactly what happened on (Bates' regulation­
"john Paxson is what you call a quiet leader. He leads by ex­
ending) play." 
ample. He 'does' by action. To end up where we are now compared
When IU had grabbed a 61-59lead 
to a year ago ... bey, it's john." -Digger Phelps. 
in overtime, courtesy of a pair of 
Debbi Hensley miscues, Kaiser was He is, at once, architect and *builder. The orchestra conductor fouled by the Hoosiers' quick guard, who also plays tht: ft:ature<.l solo. 
Amy Metheny, and hit both ends of He is the Orson Welles of college basketball -the c·:ator,the one-and-one to tie the ballgame. 
producer, director and star ofhis own team. This season, he has been On the Indiana return trip, Kaiser 
the lone constant, and the maJor force behind Notre Dame'~ trans­picked up the remains of a Mary 
formation from a 10-17 doormat to 18-9 and tournament-bound. Beth Schueth deflection and 
For his efforts, John Paxson will receive his "Oscars" -the motored all the way down the court 
numerous all-America awards that have already begun pouring in. 
to drop in the game-winning bucket. 
But he would gladly trade them all for "Best Picture" -namely, an "The ball was there and I found a NCAA championship. This year, that award is up for grabs, more so piece," said Kaiser. "You've gotta go than at any time in recent memory. And provided the Irish are out after the loose balls." 
invited on Sunday to the tournament, Paxson will lead one last Kaiser plucked balls out of the air charge at the top prize. 
at the end of regulation, as well as 
His statistics lie. Entering his final regular season game tonightthe end ofovertime, to ensure Notre 
against Northern Iowa, the senior from Kettering, Ohio, is averagingDame's miracle tie and win. IU had 17.4 points and four assists per game, and is shooting 54 percent two seconds in regulation to win it from the floor -impressive, but not among the nation's leaders. 
and Ruth hauled in the Hoosiers' 
What John Paxson means to this predominantly freshman Notre basehall pass. Indiana's last gasp in­
Dame team cannot be expressed in numbers, let alone words. bounds pass in overtime was picked 
"The way he has put confidence in these younger players is to say,off by Kaiser, also. 
'You can do it, you can help us,"' says Phelps. "He can take 30 shots a The thrilling final minutes were 
game if he wants to and he'd be justified in doing so. Yet he gave of 
preceded by a strange game which 
himself all year until these guys developed and now you tan see saw the Hoosiers stick close to the 
where we're a very competitive basketball team. Irish after Notre Dame had been able 
"And that's been his goal all year -to get this team to play on an to reel off eight straight points to 
·­
'up' note at the end of the season." 
begin the contest. 
Sure enough, the Irish, after beginning the season ;2-3. have won 
The game's overture was 
16 of their last 22 and will enter post-season play -be it NCAA or keynoted by the performance oftwo NIT -with a positive outlook. In his role as team captain, Paxson's 









