
Salvadoran soldiers execute 18 peasants 
LAS HOJAS, El Salvador (AP) -sociation of Salvadoran Indigenous, l 'niformed soldiers seized at least l H blamed the killings on personal 
pea~ants. including two old men and rivalries and land disputes in the two· children. hound the captives area in Sonsonate province. -tO miles and executed them with automatic weM ofSan Salvador. 
weapons fire, relatives and local au· The organization's pre~ident.
thorities ~aid yesterdav. 
Adrian Esquina, accust"d local lan­In San .Salvador. the federal 
dO\'-ners and military commanders 
government said it was aware of the 
of killing the seven cooperative
killings and promised an investiga­memht"rs. He said tht" landowners 
tion. 
v. anted to destrov the 2()(l'<Kre farm The government, fighting a -tO­
so t tht"y could gt"t the pmpcrtv.
month-old civil war with ldti~t guerrillas. is under intense prt"s~ure Esquina said that rh\' Sonsonate from the l'nited Sutes to curb province armv commanJer, Col. El­human rights abuses by. the army. mer Gonzakz Arraujo. aJmitteJ his Washington is El Salvador's main troops had killeJ I~ peopk in the source of military aid. area because of information that 
family members and local author­they were "subversives." ities tound at least 1 H corpses scat­
Gonzalez could not be rt"acht"cl tered in the underbrush beside the 
for comment. He commands the Cuyuapa River about a mile from Las 
1,200 Jaguar Battalion based at Son­Hojas, a farming cooperative run by 
sonante, where I 0 American ad­an organization ofIndian peasants. are training
visers Salvadoran Witnesse1o and relatives sai_d all the 
troops.victims had been seized by uni­formed soldiers who hauled them to the river in army trucks Ia t st Tuesday, 
In Chicago 
bound their hands behind their backs and shot them with high­powered automatic weapons. 


ND professor predicts Democratic victory 
The killrs dragged seven men from their hovels at the Las By SONYA STINSON oflast Tuesday's primary election­odds of Washington winning are popularity among the candidates, Hojastive, and grabbed eight other SeniorStaffReporter in which Washington upset incum­very good," he remarked. while Byrne's popularity had been people from the hamlet of Agua bent Mayor Jane Byrne -was not When asked how surprised he was declining, Roos said. 
Santa, three miles to the east, as the Notre Dame assistant professor of unpredictable. that Washington defeated Byrne and "Byrne and Washington both peasants prepared to cut sugar cane, government and avid political "I think the chances ofEpton win­Richard M. Daley, Roos replied, "Not knew that it was between them, in relatives said. They said at least three campaign-watcher John Roos ning are 500 to one. I'll go out on a very. But that was because I had terms of campaign activity and other people from other villages predicts a win for Democrat Rep. limb," Roos said. He anticipates followed it closely." where they were focusing," he said. were shot. Harold Washington over Republican much discussion ofthe race, but said The most recent polls before the After a certain point in the cam­Some members of the peasants' Bernard Epton in Chicago's mayoral he does not expect it to be close. primary showed that, sine~ January, paign, Daley was fairly ignored by 
organization, called the National As-race and contends that the outcome "Even if it is very close, I think the Washington had gained the most in the other two candidates, according to Roos. Byrne did attempt to win over some of Daley's supporters, he said.
Over weekend 

The fact that the primary was three-way helped Washington win, Roos explained. He also cited three


Poets Harrison, Woiwode close Festival 
other important reasons for the 



By GRETCHEN PICHLER women in Cuba and the silencing Neu•sStaff of poets there. Harrison also read a poem in 
English poet Tony Harrison which he remembered a child he closed the Sophomore Literary had seen in Brazil, and the Festival Saturday night explain­resiliance shown by suffering ing that the motive behind his children, including his own desire for an education was "the daughter who suffered injuries in absence of articulation.'' Har­a serious automobile· accident. rison grew up in the industrial "What is the taste of joy in a 
city of Leeds, England, where his thick urban accent was ridiculed by his private school classmates. 
"I always had a hunger for ar­ticulation" he said. ".\1y con­sciousness of being from an inarticulate family drove me toward achieving articulation." 
. Harrison read a wide selection of his poetry, some of which was sharp and satirical, including "The Heel Bug," which he described as "a little poem for a microscope (found) in my bed" while in Prague. 
Several of his poems explored historical themes; "Nuptial Tortures" was written through the eyt"s of Isabella, the new hriJe of King Phil ip II ofSpain, as she watched her husband burn 


52 people at the stake before worlcl-rhat knows despair'" he retiring to their wedding cham­asked, as he closed the presenta­her. tion with his poem "Kumquat for 
"For me, sex and politics have John Keats." "Kumquat" is an in­always been intimately related" vitation to Keats to distinguish Harrison explained, as he read a whether the pulp or the pt"t"l Shakespearean sonnet, written makes the kumquat swet"t, and he for Jane Fonda after they met in compared the wonderful taste of Leningrad. While there, they dis­the strange fruit to his first ex­cussed both the position of perience of love. 
outcome. The first was that the , StaffReporter "Crystals from North Dakota," a 
ByTOMMOWLE discover anything n<':w;" and 
white vote was split between Byrne poem dedicated to his brother. 
and Daley. Christianity has influenced much Woiwode noted that when he was 
A second reason was Washing­of the work of novelist and poet Lar-growing up, he wanted to attend 
ton's effectiveness in getting out the ry Woiwocle, who read several selec-Notre Dame. Instead he went to the 
black vote in support of his can­tions at the Sophomore Literary L'niversity of Illinois. Awards he has 
didacy. The third factor was that Festival Friday night. 
Washington "ran a smart campaign, Woiwode said because some of 
in terms of developing positive his reviewers "were prejudiced by 
images." my reference to faith in Christ," his 
"He did his homework," Roos latest novel, Pappa john, was "not 
said. "He was the brightest of the well-received." He attributed this 
three candidates. The debates prejudice to fear of "association 
helped him substantially." with the Moral Majority." 
"Both Byrne and Daley had to use The North Dakotan read two 
the debates to try to patch up prose selections and four poems. He 
defects," he continued. "Daley had read an article entitled "Guns," writ­
to provt" that he could walk and ten for Esquire magazine. In the ar­
chew gum. Byrne had to prove that ticle, a man kills an injured deer, hut 
she could stay calm." later realizes he was "as excited at 
According to Roos, an exit poll putting away a deer as moved by 
revealed that among Byrne's suppor­compassion 
ters, about 12 percent said the He also read an excerpt from the 
debates were a factor in their sup­sequel to his best-known work, 
port. Eight percent of Daley's sup­Bevond the Bedroom Wall, which 
porters said the debate~ influenced 

received nominations for the Na­them. But 29 percent of Washing­tional Book Awards and National ton's supporters said they were per­Book Critics Circle Award. The suaded by the debates. 
piece dealt with a man's coping with Another important element in the his realization that he b no longer primary was the support of black capable of living an active, physical voters. Daley never really had a great life. deal of black support, according to 
In addition. Woiwode read Roos. He received only about three "Tambourine," a poem about received include the William percent ofthe black\ <Jte in the elec­mourning over death; "June, 19H2," Faulkner Foundation Award for Best tion. a petrarchan sonnet which tied to­First Novel in 1969, and the inclu-"He never faced up to the fact that 
gether the rainy North Dakota plant­sion of two short stories in Best he was perceived as a racist," Roos ing season and the Falklands War; American Short Stories. commented. "The polls overwhelm­"After Joel," which demonstrated Woiwode was the host of a ingly showed that blacks would not 
his beliefthat "science doesn't really workshop on Saturday. 
See ROOS, page 3 


NewsBrie_b 
By The Obserwr and Th<' Associated Press 
The Old Fieldhouse will he torn down in the next few weeks. Interior demolition of the building will hegin tomorrow and razing ofthe exterior on March 12. Ritschard Brothers ofSouth Bend will do the work Parts ofthe building, which was the home of basketball and track. as well as football pep rallies, go back to the tlrst gymnasium, constructed in 1898 and destroyed hy fire two years later. The Department of Art has occupied the building for studio and ceramics work since 1969, when the Athletic and Convocation Center absorbed its athletic function. The department recently moved into a new campus home. A greensward, which will later be landscaped into a formal mall west of the Memorial Library, will replace the building. The Notre Dame-Alumni Association is selling bricks to those desiring a souvenir of the structure. -The Obserz•er 
About 70 handicapped athletes, including 
Ted Kennedy Jr., competed in the Northeast Regional Handicap Ski Championships at Mount Sunapet: ski area in New Bury, New Hampshire over the weekend. Sen. Edward Kennedy. D-Mass., watched his son win the first heat ofhis class Saturday morning. The younger Kennedy. an avid skier, lost his leg to cancer. Blind skiers were followed by someone who told them when to turn. Single am· purees skied on one leg. steering with pol<;s equipped with small runners. They competed in slalom and giant slalom races Saturday. More events, including an award~ ceremony anu a "super giant slalom" race, were scheduled later in the competition Winners of the event. sponsored by the New England Handicapped Sportsmen's Association, will go to the national championships next month in California. -AP 
Former President Gerald Ford, Gov. 
Charles Robb ofVirginia and Rep. Jack Kemp. R-N.Y.. will be among the participants in a national symposium on the New Deal in Austin, Texas this week The symposium is to be held Thursday and Friday in conjunction with the 50th anniversary of the inauguration of Presi· dent Franklin D. Roosevelt, whose administration included the New Deal programs. Ford is to make the main speech Friday morning. Lady Bird johnson, widow offormer President Lyndon B. johnson, is to welcome symposium guests to the I.BJ auditorium on Thursday, where all sessions will be conducted. The symposium is being sponsored by the University ofTexas at Austin, the I.BJ library. FOR library and Virginia Commonwealth University. -AP 
Kwame Toure, who popularized the ex· 
pression "Black Power" when he was known as Stokely Carmichael in the 1960s, says blacks help themselves by supporting struggles for liberation in African countries. "You can take us out of Africa, but you can't take Africa out ofus," Toure told people attending an inter· national affairs forum Saturday at a Nation of Islam convention in Gary, IN. "When blacks support the struggle for liberation in African countries, they support themselves." Toure started the Student Non­Violent Coordinating Committee during the 1960s. He remains active on the speaking circuit in the United States. The convention marks the first time in the 49-year history of the Black M11slim or­ganization that its national meeting is being held outside ofChicago. About 75 percent ofGary's 170,000 residents are black -AP 
Angry Polish farmers are trying to resurrect Rural Solidarity under the shelter of the Roman Catholic church. "We are not going to attack Moscow with our scythes," says one priest. "Bm we are going to restore our human dignity." Eighty of the farmers met in a secluded hilltop religious cloister near Krakow last week to discuss their problems and the future of their outlawed union. "Although Solidarity has been disbanded, it still thrives in the countryside as an idea," one farmer said at the opening of the semi­nar, which ran from Wednesday to Friday. The farmers allowed an Associated Press reporter to attend the first session on condition that neither the participants nor the exact location be identified by name. Rural Solidarity, country cousin ofthe independent union that rocked Communist Poland in 1980 and 1981, claimed between 1 million and 2 million members before it was disbanded with the declaration of martial law in December 1981 and later omlawed under a law that bans regional or nationwide unions. -AP 
The Coalition for Bilateral Freeze will present 
a half-hour, videotape interview with arms control advocate Everett Mendelson, Harvard professor ofscience history, at 7 tonight in the Center for Social Concerns. There will be a briefdiscussion after the presentation. -The Observer 
Kenneth Ballardwas walkingalong the river 
when "I saw this huge-looking deal and I said, 'That bone's so big I just better call the museum!'" "I took it home and weighed it on the bathroom scale." He said it weighed 76 pounds. His measurements showed the bone to be about a yard long and ranging from 18 to 31 inches in diameter. Ballard called the Stovall Museum at the Univer­sity ofOklahoma and was told the bone might be from a mastodon, animals that are hairy, elephant-like and extinct. Museum officials said they will pick up the bone Wednesday. Meanwhile, Ballard, 47, who found the bone along the North Canadian River under 4 inches of water, is keeping the greenish-gray bone bone in a water-filled garbage can. The part that sticks out of the can is draped with a wet towel. "They told me to keep it wet until they got here," he said. "But I think I'm going to call them up today to see if they'll let me take it down there." -AP 
Partly sunny today. High around 50. Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight around 30. High tomorrow in upper 40s. -AP 
·---~------~-~------------------·~----~----~----~-,------­
Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 2 
Meeting the City 
The smell that leaked into the hus as it travelled down the freeway was strong enough to stir their sleeping friend from Iowa. 
"What is that?" he asked as he pulled himself from what had been a good 20 minutes ofinnocent sleep. 
"Gary." one friend answered. 
But Gary had showered that morning, the Iowan said, in a display of wit that caught his friends hy surprise. 
"Gary. Indiana, you idiot." 
"Oh." the Iowan said. "I guess I've never seen heavy industry before." 
And so began their excursion to Chicago. They were ~imply six freshmen -wide-eyed and suhurl-:m to the quick -on their way to meet the city. A· hig city would do. as long a~ there was crime and dtrt and ex­pensive department stores. Their chemistry teacher had suggested Chicago a~ a nice to visit in the winter and had f111ed several bus loads offreshmen who agreed. 
The huses left them on Michigan Avenue. and someone told them thc 

Bob Vonderheide ,~,, 
~--\ 
< .-t-·l: 

..:..N.:...e;;..w;.;..;.s_E_d_i_to_r__________,~ 
Inside Monday t ~ 
hack They didn't know where they were and instead of 
-making a circle. the tracks stretched straight out to nowhere. The hillhoard~ that once lined the track were no more. They were thinking they had passed out of civilization. No one was walking along the streets helow them. and the streets themselves were now lined with dirty warehouses not stores. It was time to get off 
They almost cros~ed the tracb. but one friend sug­gested that crossing electric tracks might not h<:' so wise. They climbed down to the street and crossed un­
derneath. As they waiting tor 

world's largest recoru store a return train. they ~pec­was up that way. After ulated mayhe the trains walking about a hlock, three stopped running ar 5 p.m. It decided to check out some was 'i:20. Fortunately, of the big-name clothing Chicago's city transit system stores because, after all, saved the three from a records are the sam<:' hungry death. The return anywhere; clothes aren't. train seemed to go slower, 
The world's largest hut they didn't mind as long record store turned out not as the man with the hair net to be so large. hut the other wasn't on it. three freshmen bought two At one stop, the train's albums anyway. As they left hydraulic doors slid open the store and asked each and the three pairs of eyes other where to go next, an read a billboard about some elevated train zipped hy. "B" movie. Nightstalker. The The three looked at each caption: "When you're alone other and decided a quick on·rhe streets, the important trip on the "L" train would thing is staying alive." The 

expose Chicago better than walking around the Michigan Avenue area. 
They climbed the stairs to board the next train, and the ticket lady behind the booth wanted to know where they were going. "We just ant to see the city," one friend said, figuring the train would go around the city in a big circle like the circle highway hack home. The three sat down on the train next to each other. There were only two other people on the train, and one black man stood up just as the three sat down. He was wearing a hair net, and clinked as he walked toward the three. One student reached up quickly to remove the green Notre Dame cap from his head just in case the man was a DePaul fan, although his dress didn't suggest it. The man walked back and forth down the aisle several times, keeping a careful eye on his three prey, but soon stepped through a door to another train car. 
The three sighed. The other lady in their car smiled as ifshe had just seen a pretty good show. They rode for 20 minutes before they began thinking they had better go 
doors shut, and the three swallowed. They had reached out to shake the city's hand, they told each other later, and the city had spit at their feet. They would hang their "L" train ticket on their dorm room door the next day, circling the Lake Dan Ryan station and writing, "Where we almost met our Maker." 
They met up with their other three friends back on Michigan Avenue. The Iowan, who had gone shopping, declared, "Isn't Michigan Avenue great?" All six agreed it was. 
Observer note_______, 
The Observeris always lookingfor newpeople. We need people in layout, production, news, sports, etc. Ifyou would like to get involved, call 239·5303, 239-5313, or 239-7471 or stop up on the third floor of LaFortune. All students are welcome. 

The Observer 


Desig11 Editor..............................).P Keyes-­Amateur 'buffoonist' Angler 

????????????????????????????????????
Des(~11 Assisflmt..................... Pete'White-­1 had to do some work Mary Typesetters .. . ...................... Reggie BWD News Editor ............. Dave'Radar' Sarphie Copl' Editor ............. Kathy Features Layout... ........................... Sarah-· I'll give ya' a quarter if you waste 'im Editorials Layout... . ........... Libby--in 14 -~Ports Copv Editor..... .. .. Ed--out at I ND Da)' Editor. .. ............... Mike Proofreader........ . .......... jose faliciano Typists .......................................... Tari--again Ad Design ......................... What's hb name Photographer.... .............. Scott 'grab your 
ankles' Bower Guest Appeara11ces .. Ryan, Jeb, Za's, B--r, Bruce and tag a long, Jloat the camera, Hi jane-is thar your name, a bunch ofdimented birds, 
Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday dear Mauricio, Happy Birthday to you. 
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fr~day and on home football Saturdays except dur~ng exam and vacat1on per~ods The Observer IS publ1shed Dy the students of Notre Da•ne and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscr~pt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year tS 15 per semester) by wr1t1ng The Observer P 0 ,Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on r~ghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 




Are You Registered for the Draft? 
Are You Concerned About the Possibility of Being Drafted into the 

Military? Do You Think You Might Be A Conscientious Objector? 
Would You Like to Know What Being A Conscientious Objector Entails? 
If These Questions Are of Concern to You, Then You Should Inquire About 

REGISTRATION & DRAFT COUNSELING 
at Campus Ministry Badin al1***239-5242 

---~--­
Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 3
The Observer 
GERAS 


Progratn improves care for elderly 
By CHUCK KRILL 
StaffReporter 
"A way of keeping the flame lit." 
That's the way John Santos, direc­tor ofthe Gerontological Education, Research and Services ( GERAS) program at Notre Dame describes his efforts to improve physical care for the elderly in the face of declining government sup­port ofsocial programs. 
Santos is co-director of the Action Committee, a group of selected ex­perts on mental and health care of the elderly, formed to study and implement recommendations from the 19H I White House Conference 
on Aging ( WHCoA ). 
To . maximize its influence, the committee will look at ways of implementing its directives, emphasizing the encouragement of legislative actions necessary to meet the special needs ofthe elderly. 
Santos expects this type ofcitizen involvement to alleviate the problems caused by declining government support of important health and mental care programs for the elderly. 
The Action Commirtt>t> is studying 
• • • Roos 

continuedfrom page 1 
vote for Daley." 
Byrne did have some black sup­port early on, and she ended up with about 14 percent in the election. Af­ter her high point in)anuary, she lost significant black support to Wash­ington. 
Roos expressed the beliefthat the ­reason for this shift was that by that time Washington had a strong cam­paign and had gotten over the "credibility threshold." 
"Early on, even many blacks didn't believe Washington could win. Once they felt he had a chance, they defected from Byrne to Washing­ton," Roos explained. 
Another reason for Byrne's decline in favor among blacks was "Eddie Vrdolyak (Cook County Democratic Party chairman) made some apparently racist remarks trying to scare whites into voting for Byrne because Washington was coming on strong." Roos stated. 
"It is stunning to me -if you go back to last summer -that Jane Byrne even came close,'' he com­mented. At that time. Byrne was be­hind Daley in the polls. 
"She may have done about as much as she could. She just had such a spotty record that it's amazing she ever came as close as she did." 
Roos also discussed the problems in Daley's campaign. "Daley's big­gest mistake was that he overes­timated the strength and size of his father's supporters," he said. 
"He essentially ran a very low­keyed. traditional campaign and never developed a sufficiently inde­pendent electorate. He started out with y; percent who supported him 
WHCoA recommendations because 
"after the WHCoA this time, no 
money was set aside to follow up,'' 
Santos said. "It's a small committee," 
he remarked, "but it has access to a 
lot ofinformation." 
The Action Committee was or­ganized and is supported through grant money from the Retirement Research Foundation (RRF). Santos is a member ofthe Board ofTrustees 
of the RRF. 
Although Santos said the Action Committee's funding ( SI00,000 each t year for three years) is low, he anticipates it will be adequate. "You'd be surprised what you can get done," said Santos, whose goal is to get "a loud bang for the buck." 
As the director of GERAS, Santos has had extensive experience in identifying and taking care of the needs of the elderly. The elderly are "scared to death," he says, in the face of possible cuts in Social Security benefits and other economic problems. 
They suffer from a wide range of physical disabilities. These dis­abilities are "nothing completely unique. but there are more ofthem," he said. 
because they were Daley suppor­ters, but f'!e never got beyond that." 
Roos gave a description of Wash­ington's opponent, Bernard Epton. 
"He is a Republican businessman who served in the state legislature 
for several years. His is noJ a very strong campaign. He's bald and has a beard -doesn't have a very good TV image," he commented. 
Though he said Washington's chances of winning are excellent, Roos pointed out that the race will 
be  a  challenging  one  for  the  
congressman.  
"Washington  must use  his cam­ 

paign over the next six weeks to es­tablish a base for his governance," he said. "I think he has got some real 
opportunities. -But he has some real problems, too. Racism will be a fac­tor. He will be scrutinized much more closely than if he were white." 
"Ifhe pulls it off, he is going to be a very powerful and effective politician," Roos remarked. 

The efderly pers-on ts distressed 
by "exit events," such as the losing 
ofspouse, job, role. interest or even 
appetite."In the face ofa superabun­
dance ofexit events, people become 
helpless, hopeless and depressed," 
Santos said. 
Although "the elderly do not have 
significantly more crime directed 
against them than.younger groups,'' 
according to Santos, they are much 
more fearful of it. 
All of these factors increase the level of stress in an elderly person's life, which serves to intensify al­ready serious problems. Not surpris­ingly, the elderly commit "five to six times more suicides,'' according to Santos, and suffer from other symptoms ofstress as well. 
The GERAS program at Notre Dame is designed to address these problems through educational, research and training programs. Santos stressed the need for proper training of both volunteers and professionals who deal with the el­derly. "There is a great deal of naivete on the part of the·President (Reagan) and others that you can just turn volunteers loose, and they will know what to do," he said. 
To encourage and facilitate the type of training necessary for care of the elderly, Santos, with Gary Van­denBos, edited an American Psycho­logical Association book entitled 
Psychology and the Older Adult: Challenges for Training in the 1980s. This book has been dis­tributed nationally to organizations which provide training and supervi­sion ofthose working with the elder· ly. 
At Notre Dame, Santos noted that students have the opportunity to work with older persons within a framework of"help, preparation and guidance" as part ofthe Student Adv­ocates and Volunteers for the Elder­ly (SAVE) program. Santos is "absolutely delighted with the kind of track record Notre Dame stu­dents" have established through their participation in SAVE. 
Despite the numerous problems of elderly life, Santos emphasizes that "a lot of old people are happy." He sees this as evidence that· the GERAS and SAVE programs can succeed in helping those having trouble dealing with the difficulties of old ·age. Careful study of the health and mental problems of the elderly is essential, Santos says, be­cause "there are no simple solutions to a complicated problem." 
........................................ 
: attentiOn: : : au PRosp€ctlv€ Ch€€Rl€ab€Rs : 
: ORqamzatJonal ffi€€tmq ~oR 1983-84 : 
: Ch€€Rlabmq tRyouts tu€sbay, maRch 1, 1983 : : at 7pm : • at th€ taroRtun€ BallRoom •
•,...................................• 
LAST M*A*S*H PIZZA BASH 
MEDIUM 14in 
Cheese Pizza 
$4.71 
Extra ingredients 
$.62 
COUPON EXPIRES 3/2/83 
. 

Jolisq Jrittcc 

Ji~~cria 
180111 So. Bend Ave. 
272-8030. 
FREE DELIVERY 
... ~~~frED ARE~__ •• 10 PERCENT OFF ANYTIME WITH NO COUPON. STUDENT tO. REQUIRED. 
• SANDWICHES •PIEROGI• 
•CZARNINA •BLINTZES • 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 4:00-1:30 A.M. 
MEDIUM 14in 
Cheese Pizza 
(Willi he Adtlitilull~rMietrt) 
&Liter of RC Cola 
$567 
COUPON EXPIRES 
312183 


Couples dance to a slower tune at Friday night's Tri-Mi/itary Ball in the Monogram Room ofthe ACC. All three ROTC units, the Army, Navy, andAirForce, were represented at the affair. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
,~--------------------~ 

C()ltVHIJNIICAIJII()N ~....,__(;JlrlfAIJ~E 
~\~()~I[)A\,/ lfiiiL~\ Slfll2111~S ll 
February 28 

Lancelot of the Lake !1974) 
Robert Bresson. France. color. 85 m•n Inarguably hts last great ltlm_ CltreclOr Robert Bresson treals lhe Ar­thur•an legends and the oecltne ot ch.valry tn a style at once concrete and metaphystcal -A ltlm to see and see agatn -­Penelope G•ll•atl. Tile New \'orker 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission "" lr~u ~ 11~13 lt-llr~s_....._?·-0 -0 ,.:.. 
meet YOUit KlajoJt  
Monday, Feb. 28  
Teacher's Educ.  Room 219 O'Shag.  4:30  
Mathematics  Room 115 O'Shag.  4:30  
American Studies  Room 331 O'Shag.  5:30  
Program of Liberal  Pit-Grace Hall  6:30  
Studies  
Art  Room 127 O'Shag.  6:30  
AE/ALPP  Room 104 O'Shag.  7:30  


50% 








Frames 
6*\) 
Choose from the entire selection of frames including designer lines such as Gloria Vanderbilt and Christian Dior. Then take 50% off the regular price. Offer good with this coupon and student/faculty identification when ordering a complete pair of prescription glasses. No other discounts applicable. 
South Bend: Scottsdale Mall291-2222 Elkhart: Concord Mall875-7472 
B3 

Open All Day Saturday and Sunday Mall Hours ~ PROFESSIONALEYEEXAMINATIONAVAILABLEBY ~ OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICES ON PREMISES ·
L-----------------------­
·--------------· ----­
The Observer Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 4 
Queen's California tour continues 

PALM SPRINGS, Calif. (AP) ­Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip attended church in San Diego yes­terday and then flew in Air Force II to Palm Springs, arriving in a steady rain for their second stop on their CalitiJrnia tour. 
The 56-year-old queen, wearing a lavender suit and matching beret, stepped from the gleaming Boeing ~o7 and preceded Prince Philip down the ramp into a waiting !1mousine. Escorted or a California Highway Patrol vehicle and four motorcycles, they headed lor the Walter Annenherg estate in Rancho Mir~ge, eight miles to the south. 
The royal couple. who arrived in San Diego on Saturday aboard the 5.'69-ton yacht Britannia, were to t1nish their day in Los Angeles at a gala dinner with movie moguls and Northern Ireland and one saying, "Cry for Argentina." 
Inside the church, the royal couple listened to an abbreviated sermon, and Prince Philip read from I corinthians. 
A crowd of I0,000 greeted the queen Saturday morning as the Britannia docked at the Broadwav Pier. Despite rain and crisp wind~. Elizabeth. who is on a I 0-day visit to 
the  West  Coast,  received  a  warm  
welcome.  
She  then  toured  the  harbor.  

Scripps Institution of Oceanog­raphy, the Old Globe Theater and the San Diego Art Museum, while Philip visited the San Diego Zoo and the fairbanks Ranch, to he the site of the 1984 Olympics equestrian 
events. 

Advisory Council lecture in the Annenberg Auditorium last night. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
Hollywood royalty. 
Several boos could be heard from a group of 21 protesters among a crowd of 200 to 300 people watch­ing the arrival from behind a fence several hundred yards away, but the royal couple gave no sign they heard as they walked quickly along a 50­toot red carpet to the waiting limousine. 
Earlier in San Diego, about 500 people waited outside St. Paul's Epis­copal Church to see the queen, head of the Anglican church in England. Several in the crowd waved Union Jacks, but four people carried signs, three protesting British policies in 
Reagan budget 

Governors urge tax increases, defense cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Citing their battered state budgets, a bipar­tisan coalition of governors yester­day moved toward asking President Reagan and Congress to consider tax increases and defense cuts to reduce federal deficits described as "ruinous to our economy." 
A draft budget resolution urging this stand had strong support among members ofthe National Governors' 
********************************** 
D.C. CLUB 
SPRING BREAK BUS 
********************************** 
SIGN UP: TUESDAY, mARCH 1 10-llpm 1st Floor Lafortune 
in t'h~WASHINGTON D.C. sprin3! 
S70.00 round trip. You must pay to reserve your seat. 

First Come, First Serve 
Exciting Things Are Happening at 
Daniel's Den Lounge Ramada Inn Mon.· South Bend rues· Dollar Drink Nite 
Draft Beer: .75C 
Bar Liquor, Canned Beer 
$3.00 a 

Wed.-Ladies Nite · %price drinks, and for everyone, all canned beer & bar liquor $1.00 
Thurs.· Mens Nite · 1f2 price drinks. Mexican Border Nite ·Tequila shots: .75¢; Tequila Sunrises and Margaritas: 
$1.25 

Fri.· Smoking Blue Devil Dr inks -offered on Fridays only· Sun.· 8 · midnight: $5.00 buys you all the draft beer you can drink. Cocktails Bar liquor·.75e 
The Best Live Entertainment in Michiana Feb 21 · March 5: "Phoenix" March 7-March 19: "High Tide" March 21 · 26: "Fabulous Sleepy Marlin" 
Association, but there were misgiv­ings expressed by chief executives wary of trying to set specit1c goals for the federal budget. 
"We've had no sense or word from the White House at all that they are opposing what we're trying to do," said Gov. Scott Matheson, a Democrat from Utah who is chair­man ofthe governors' association. 
However, Matheson and Gov. James Thompson of Illinois, a Republican who will be the next NGA chairman, acknowledged that the White House was opposed to the call for trimming Reagan's proposed increases in defense spending. 
Thompson told a news con­ference at the opening of the as­sociation's three-day winter meeting that "our concern is that out-year deficits now forecast by al­most everybody would be ruinous to our economy and certainly by their prospect, if not actuality, choke offany chance for recovery." 
The governors' proposal set a goal of bringing the deficit down to no more than S90 billion by 1988. Matheson said that the Congres­sional Budget Office projects a 5267 billion deficit for that year. 
The resolution recommends six budget guidelines. They are: 
• 
Accepting the recommenda­tions of the bipartisan commission on Social Security for dealing with the system's financial problems. 

•Restricting 
increases on federal grants to state and local govern­ments to 75 percent of the rate of inflation. These grants cover such programs as aid to business, veterans, health care and environ­mental regulation. This segment represented a retreat from an earlier plan to call for freezing federal assis­tance at current levels, regardless of the inflation rate. 

•Providing 
"almost full funding" for such programs as aid for depend­ent children, food stamps, Medicaid, 


Consider a truly HUMANISTIC EDUCATION 
talk with faculty and students 

ay February 28, 6:30pm GRACE PIT PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 

child nutrition, guaranteed student loans, farm price supports, general revenue sharing and unemployment_ insurance. 
•Restraining 
the growth in en­titlement programs that are not based on individual need. 

•Limiting 
the growth in defense spending to between 4 percent and 6 percent over the next two years and an overall rate ofbetween 3 per­cent and 5 percent over the 1984­1988 period. Real growth in the proposed fiscal 1984 budget has a target of about I 0 percent and the administration had projected long­term growth at 7 percent. 

•Withour 
citing specific taxes, calling for increases sufficient to off­set the remaining portion of the deficit. 


Democratic governors, who now outnumber Republicans 34-16, have called for capping the third year of Reagan's tax cut program. They also want to eliminate indexing, which adjusts an individual's income taxes for inflation. 


SMCBoard discusses crime program 
By THERESA HARDY 
News Staff 

The establishment of a new com­munity crime-t1ghting program was discussed at last night's Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance meeting. 
The Crime Stoppers program, which has been established in 320 areas around the country, reenacts crime cin television duri~g prime­time viewing. Its purpose is to in­form citizens of area crimes and encourage them to contact the police if they have any information about the reenacted crimes or any other felony crimes. 
South Bend Police ~argent Sam Walsh stressed the "total secrecy and anonymity ofthe callers." 
According to Kathleen Murphy, student body president, "The board responded well to Sargent Walsh. He was very professional in-his ap­proach." 
Walsh described some of the details of the program for the board: 
• 
Of the privately-funded programs operating around the na­tion, Walsh said, "All established programs are very successful." 

• 
Citizens receive financial rewards for any valid information they supply. Walsh expressed the belief that "these rewards will t en­courage citizens' response and act as a deterrent for criminals." ASteering Board will decide on the amounts of each reward 


The Observer Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 5 

coast to 
"Hawkeye poured from Casino in 
Surgical Hospital. 
A 
bottle~ 
And Lips 
At 
-
Civilians killed in Zimbabwe 
BULAWAYO, Zimbabwe (AP) ­Prime Minister Robert Mugabe's troops are alleged to have killed as manv as 3,000 civilians over the last few 'weeks in the tribal lands that form a powerbase for opposition leader joshua Nkomo. 
The government denies the claims as vastly exaggerated, but is under mounting pressure from church leaders, relief agencies and human rights groups to allow an in­
dependent investigation ofthe situa­tion in Matabeleland. 
Villagers who have fled the province, home of the minority Ndebele tribe, have told foreign journalists harrowing tales of mas­sacre, rape, looting and torture by the troops, most of them members ofthe dominant Shona tribe. 
The refugees say the atrocities were committed by North Korean­trained soldiers of the 5,000-strong Fifth Brigade -a special force raised by Mugabe to battle rebels and guard against invasion from white-ruled South Africa. 
Some reporters have quoted uni­dentified sources, ranging from relief agency workers to civil ser­vants, as putting the death toll as 

Notre Dame senior Martha Jimenez of San Antonio, Texas has ben named to receive the second Distinguished Student 
Marthajimenez 

Award, inttiated last year by the Alumni Association to honor an outstanding senior in good academic standing and based on high as 3,000. Other sources say the tlgure is much lower, about 1,200. 
But Information Director Justin 
Nyoka, who escorted local jour­
nalists on a three-day tour of the 
strife-torn western province last 
week, told The Associated Press yes­
terday: 

"Everyone we spoke with said there was no conceivable way of arriving at even a figure of 100. These reports are based on the wil­dest ofspeculation and not an ounce offact." 
The government has conceded that civilians have been slain in Matabeleland -by crossfire during clashes between security forces and the "dissidents" they are hunting. 
The government says the dissi­dents are supporters of Nkomo, the president of the Zimbabwe African Peoples Union, and that they deserted from the national army to become rebels after Nkomo was fired from the coalition government a year ago for allegedly plotting a coup against Mugabe. 
In an escalating campaign against 
the opposition, authorities have 
since detained hundreds ofZAPU of­
ficials and supporters. Nine days ago, 
Senior receives award for outstanding work 
service to the University and the 
community. 

Jimenez, a resident of Lewis Hall, is a Program of Liberal Studies major, accumulating a 3. 5 GPA in her field. She has been named to the Dean's Honor List for five semesters. 
Jimenez has served the Univer­sity through the Urban Plunge program, World Hunger Coali­tion, Community for the Interna­tional Lay Apostlate ( CILA), and the Center for Social Concerns. She has also served as director of the Lewis Hall choir and is a resi­dent assistant. 
~ommunity activities have in­cluded the Big Sister volunteer program, participation in a two­month Summer Service Project in Tortugas, Mexico with the American Friends Service, mem­bership in the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, representing students at a social Concerns seminar in Washing­ton, D.C. and volunteer work in Kentucky for the Christian Ap­palachian Project. 
police barred Nkomo from leaving the Matebeleland provincial capital of Bulawayo for a World Peace 
Council conference in Prague, Czechoslovakia. 
They also contlscated his passport and air tickets and said he was under investigation for alleged sedition 
and tor illegally trying to smuggle Zimbabwe banknotes out of the country. 
Buy 
ObsPrv•~r 
classifiieds! 
,~

I~~~r~~ 
; I 
'BtwHo.'~ Pi~ 
~ 

"Fwulay" U~cmutt~
.......... laRG€ 18" P•zza $6.00 
tu€s-thuRsOay $8.50 R€qulaRly $15.00 
Mon -Thurs 4-llpm Fri-Sat 4 -12pm 
Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Tennessee Williams is pictured during a visit to New York Ci~y in june, 1982. Williams, 71, died Frida_}' in New York. (AP) 

These rates are non-discountable. Cars must be returned to renting location. 
HERTZ 


Attvtge Feetb 401t Ktcvae Just 1/4 mile North of Toll Road Across From "Big C" Lumber 
The Observer Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 6 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 
SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEAC 
MARCH 11 -20, I983 
Amurg~m~nt:r by 
ECHO TRAVEL, INC. MC/5257/F 
N.D. SIX PER ROOM 
$185 
FOUR PER ROOM 
$199 

TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
Round tnp motor coach transportation v.a. modern highway coaches to Daytona Beach. Aonda leaving Fnday, March II. 

• 
Seven ntghts accommodatton~ at the exciting Plaza H;o~cl of Daytona Beach. located at 600 North Atlantic Avc.,tt tsthc most demanded hotel on the strip at that time. 

• 
A truly great schedule of activities including our famoWI pool deck parties and belly nap contest. 

• 
Optional excursions available to DiNney World, Epcot, and several otheranractions. 

• 
Numerous bar and restaurant discounts. 

• 
The services of full tim~ u.avel representative!. 

• 
All taxes and g.ratuit1es 

• 
Guaranteed kitchenette or oceanfront available at small addiuonal charge. (4 per room only) 


A QUALITY TRIP-A LOWPRICE-A GREATTIME 
The Pl111a Hotel. Jocatea nght m the middle of the stnp, is defmitely the place tO be durin1 ~pr1ng break. Ask anyone \loho has been to Daytona The hotel has a poo! .. b•g p_arty deck:, re\taurant. four bars. color TV. aJr condtlloned rooms and plenty of actlvJttes. Ptctures aN: a\atlable where you stgn up. Our motor coaches are nothmg but the highest qual~ty htghway coarhe-s We also gtve vou more extras w1th our !Tip than anyone else. Don't blow nand JO on a !ower quahty trip. iAST YEAR OYER 8,000 PEOPLE ENJOYED THIS TRIP. 
SIGN uP NOW AT THE 'TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.·FRI. tO AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 
Sophomore Parents 
Weekend At Saint Mary's 
Mary Beth Hocks (above) plays guitar as Caro~yn Cwran sings Dan Fogelberg's "To The Morning" during Friday night's Talent Show at O'Laughlin Auditorium. julie Thur­man was an accompanist for the song. Parents ofSaint Mary's sopho­mores (below) wait in line for buffet·s~yle service at Sundt~y morn­ing's brunch at the Saint Mary's Dining Hall. The Brunch closed out Sophomore Parents Weekend, a weekend which included a speech by SMC presidentjohn Duggan. (Photos by Scott Bower) 
SM C sophomores entertain parents 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
Assistant News Editor 
Saint Mary's sophomores entertained their parents 
Friday night at a talent show entitled "IfThey Could See 
Us Now!" as part 9f the College's annual Sophomore 
Parents Weekend. 
Produced and directed by Kathleen Desmond and 
Marie Yon Feldt, the show highlighted the musical, 
dance and comedy talents of various members of the 
class. 

The show opened with a dazzling song and dance 
routine entiltled "Consider Yourself at Home." A 
comedy-song medley, "People Should Send Candy/If 
These Halls Could Talk" followed. 
Next, Maureen Meagher exhibited her dance skills in 
a Spanish dance from the Tchaikovsky's Nutcracker 
Suite. The pace slowed slightly with a rendition of Dan 
Fogelberg's acoustic "To The Morning," with Carolyn 
Curran, Mary Beth Hoch on guitar. and Julie Thurman 
as accompanist. 
After the comedy skit, "Hard Knocked Life." Moira 
Finnegan and Jeanne Anselm an performed a Mozart· 
clarinet sonata to utter pq:fection. 
A touch of Frank Sinatra lightened the pace as five 
girls sang Kander's "New York, New York." Next, 
Christine Vieck displayed her soprano voice, singing 
Mozart's "Una Donna a Quindici Anni from Cosi Fan 
Tutti." 

Mary Scheiber disJ'llayed her talents as a ballerina in a 
routine she called "A Touch ofClassic." Lee Ann Franks 
followed, playing Marcel Grandjany's harp solo 
"Barcarolle." 
A comedy interlude followed, with several girls 
playing "Matchmaker" for the other young women. 
Kathleen Lach next sang the Belafonte, Greene, 
Reynold's immortal "Turn Around." Julie Thurman 
then displayed her talents as both a composer and 
pianist with her original. "Yin-Yang." Laura Halland 
helped out on tlute. 
A trio followed with a rendition of Irving Berlin's 
"Can't Get a Man With a Gun." 
STUDENTS! 

Considering Moving Off Campus? 
There will be an open house with area landlords tomorrow from 12 noon until5pm on the 1st floor of LaFortune. 
Meet informally with representatives from 

Campus View, Park Jefferson, Turtle Creek, N.D. Apartments, Castle Point, and private homeowners. 
r-·~z~~~~~~E~~~ 
~ A new service to the ND community ~ 
[ 239·7793 \
i HOURS: 4-9pm Mon.-Thurs. i 
~ ~ 
\ Counseline is a free, confidential \ r telephone service that offers [ ~ professsionally taped materials that .J ~cover a wide variety of student concerns! 
~ i 
. [TAPE NO. TITLE \ l1 Friendship Building r ~ 7 Dealing with Constructive Criticism } [ 8 Dealing with Anger [ · ]10 How to Say "No" l [ 16 Becoming Open to Others [ l1s Dating Skills l t30 Anxiety & Possible Ways to Cope with II \ l32 How to Deal with Loneliness [ ~ 33 How to Handle Fears l [35 Building Self,Esteem & Confidence [ ]37 Relaxing Exercises l [ 38 Coping with Stress \ ]39 Female Sex Role·Changes & Stress •i44 Learning to Accept Yourself ' 
[ 61 What Is Therapy & How to Use It {l 83 How to Cope with a Broken Relationship ] [ 85 Understanding Grief 
I 
l90 Helping a Friend • L160 Early Signs of an Alchohol Problem ~ l161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking i \ 402 Self·Assertiveness l [ 431 What Is Depression ( ] 432 How to Deal with Depression l L433 Depression as a Lite Style \ l 478 Becoming Independent from Parents • [ .479 Dealing with Alchoholic Parents ~ l 491 Suicidal Crisis • ~ 492 Recognizing Suicidal Potential in Others\ ~ 493 Helping Someone in a Suicidal Crisis 
i 
~ Counseline is a completely anonymous )_ ] service offered by the Counseling & \ \ Psychological Services Center· UNO \ 1 For Further Info or Assistance ­~Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9-5 ) 
i i 
. \ 
~ --CLIP AND SAVE--•
L.....,......,......,....,.....,.....,..~ ..............~J 
Observer Special -Class Elections 
Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 7 

By MIKE KRISKO 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
Class unity through better communica­tion and more events is the key issue facing voters in tommorrow's senior class elec­tions. 
There are three tickets running for the soon-to-be seniors' last election: 
• 
Tom Burke, president; Tommy Murphy, vice president; Kevin Smith, secretery; and Gina Gamboa, treasurer. 

• 
William Dawahare, president; Tina Persson, vice president; Mark Manley, secretary; Mark Buschman, treasurer. 

• 
Patricia Romano, president; Eric Wiechart, vice president; Pat Barry, secretary; Bill Kirk, treasurer. 


Tom Burke's platform stresses getting a diversified crowd to attend class functions. "Participation will be the key to a successful year," he said. 
When asked about the student who doesn't want to go to an event Burke replied, "We would like to create a class atmosphere at every event that will appeal to all seniors." Some of the ticket's ideas include more hap­py hours and tailgaters, a Senior Talent Show, a lecture series, class Masses, A Day at the Dunes, sports tournaments, more economical trips, and An Unforgettable Senior Week. 
Burke, a Dillon Hall leader, proposes a monthly meeting open to the entire class to increase commumcauon... we would like to hear people's ideas about what they would like to see done. I think it's hard for just four to run the show. The meetings will provide the people that care with ample opportunity to voice their opinion and let us know what others think," he said. 
Burke also explained his reasons for waiting until now to run for office. "Up until now, I haven't had enough time to give to this, but now it's something I really want to do. You work hard for something like this. It's not like my engineering courses where there is a formula, a set way to do it, and you 
look in the back ofthe book to see ifyou got it right. 
"In something like this you really have to exert yourself. I enjoy planning and coordinating ideas and fun," he said. "It makes me feel good when I see people having a good time as a direct offshoot ofmy work." 
With the slogan "More for '84," William Dawahare explained that his platform is built on class unity. "For the senior year, you want to bring the seniors together as many times as possible, in as many areas as pos­sible." He plans to build unity through so­cial, liturgical, and volunteer programs. 
Dawahare; the current junior class secreqtry, said that it's hard to contact the students who don't want to come to ac­tivities for various reasons, but to reach everyone, it's necessary "to offer such a wide range ot activities that these students at one time or another will find something that they want to go to. 
"He'll go to a couple ofevents, see people that he knows, meet more people, and from there its a snowball effect -he'll go to many events." 
Dawahare said it's important to support the volunteer programs. "Many seniors are involved in Volunteer Services, and we hope to encourage more students to work with the Center for Social Concerns to bring the campus and the South Bend community to· gether," he said. · 
The Junior Class Secretary stressed the build-up ofSenior Bar as a social center. "It's got to be a place where seniors can go to any night of the week and find worthwhile events. We hope to work with the manager -· to tap the existing potential." 
Some Dawahare ticket proposals are: a trip to the Kentucky Derby, a weekend in Chicago, a luau at Senior Bar to start the year, monthly senior event calendars in every dorm, a wine tasting party at Senior Bar, and an alumni newsletter to keep the class in­formed as to what everyone is doing after graduation. 
Current Junior Class Vice President Patricia Romano, running with the slogan "Anything Else is a Compromise" stresses class unity through many activities. 
Romano hopes to get everone interested at the beginning of the year with Senior Dis­orientation Week, so they will be interested in class events for the rest ofthe year. "Many events both at Greenfield and in Senior Bar should attract the majority of the class," she said. 

"We will reach those people who don't feel like coming to events out of the fear of not having fun by offering a wide variety of programs. There will be non-alcoholic events, spiritual events, and social events," Romano said. Her ticket proposes the "Study Breaks" in LaFortune, trips to the Michigan Dunes, to Rush Street, Comiskey Park and Wrigley Field in Chicago, Date Nights, and skating parties. 
Romano's ticket understands and will sup­port the Volunteer Services programs. "Bill Kirk has been involved in the tutoring program and has visited t-he nursing homes. We know that its important to help the neighborhood," said Romano. 
The Junior Class Vic~ President realizes the importance ofcommunication. "We will have an office in LaFortune where one ofthe class officers will be everyday. Students would be able to find information about so­cial programs, voice opinions or just ask questions." 
Romano's ticket has many new ideas, such as a Senior Class exchange with other Mid­western colleges, an Alumni Night to help make more job opportunities available after graduation, and t a Senior Informal in Chicago as an alternative to The Senior Formal. 
Juniors 

By MARY EASTERDAY 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
Increased communication and participa­tion in class activities are the main issues that the Junior Class Officers are promoting in their campaigns. 
There are three tickets in the race: 
• 
John Decker, president, Jim Gibbons, vice president, Dave Minion, treasurer, and Brian Potasiewicz. 

• 
Vince Hockett, president, Laura Sizelove, vice president, Kay Wigton, treasurer, and John Olson, secretary. 

• 
Mike Schmitt, president, Robin Israel, vice president,Julie Pierson, treasurer, and Sylvia Piccini, secretary. 


The Decker ticket, nicknamed "The 
Mob," emphasizes five key areas: academics, 
administrative, monetary, social, and liturgi· cal. Some ideas under the category of academics include a Junior class test Iile with future tests and supplying the Biology department with fresh cadavers. Another issue, under the category of social life, is saving the fieldhouse and turning it into a dog racetrack and casino. 
The Hockett ticket stresses the participa· tion ofeveryone in theJunior class. 
"We have to have people to make all ofthe activities a success," Hockett said. They plan to build class interest and involvement by efficient use ofthe hall representatives. "The hall representatives are the people who let the class know what's going on and let the officers know the ideas ofthe class," Hockett commented. 
A social event emphasized by the Hockett ticket is a Junior "Welcome Back Week." There would be an activity such as bowling, a happy hour, or a picnic planned for every day of that event. 
Increased communication among the class is the thrust ofSchmitt's platform. "This would mean frequent newsletters and a great number ofsigns to keep the class well informed," Schmitt said. 
The platform also includes a large number ofsocial events, characteristic ofjunioryear. Their focus is on social, but with a serious commitment to service activities. 
Finally, the platform stresses the need for increased communication and interaction between the class officers and students. "We need to ·get a better feel of the needs and wants of the students," Schmitt said. 
Sophomores 
BY KEVIN BINGER 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
Freshman ambition is the common denominator of all the sophomore class president candidates. 
The nine tickets in the race promise a wide variety ofideas from which to choose: 
• 
John Rubino, president; Fifi Paraiso, vice president; Christy ·Full, secretary; Chris Benz, treasurer. 

• 
Mike D'Aiessandro, president; Jean Mack­ay, vice president; Beth McCahill, secretary; Mark Oberlies, treasurer. 

• 
Vito Gagliardi, president; Jenny Stepan, vice president; Marty McNulty, secretary; Brian Welsey, treasurer. 

• 
Lee Broussard, president; Susie Baker, vice president; Bob McNamara, secretary; John Zufelt, treasurer. 

• 
Mike Brogioli, president; Gerry McCaf­ferty, vice president; Lucy O'Shaughnessy, secretary; Mark Boyle, treasurer. 

• 
Mike Kowitz, president; Scott Williams, vice president; Cathy Snakard, secretary; Pat Browne, treasurer, 

• 
Pat Flood, president; Tim McLellan, vice president; Mimi Graham, secretary; Lisa Dold, treasurer. 

• 
Rick Ruehlmann, president; Sarah Molinsky,-vice president; Tim Ryan, secretary; Tony Falotico, treasurer. 

• 
Jose Vela, president; Paul Mazelin, vice president; Ken Griffo, secretary; Therese Fink, treasurer. 


John Rubino ofAlumni Hall heads one par­ticularily ambitious ticket. Rubino, a New York native, would like to have the dogbook revised and possibly see a laundry delivery system or a north quad laundromat initiated. 
Rubino expressed the bdief that his projects are feasible. "We researched this, we talked to upper-classmen," he said. "We talked to people who had run before and they told us what not to even bother putting down." 
A proposed career planning program is the central plank in Rubino's platform. He hopes to bring business leaders to Notre Dame to speak and bring sophomores out into the business world to gain exposure. 
Candidates Mike D'Aiessandro of Hanner Hall and Vito Gagliardi of Carroll Hall agree that there are no real issues in the campaign and that most of the platforms are very similar. The two emphasize their leadership styles, which are exact opposites, instead of particular activities. 
D'Aiessandro stresses that he and his co­candidates are typical clas's ·members and would do whatever the class members would like to do. 
"We don't want to go around making 
speeches," said D'Aiessandro, a New Jersey 
native. "That turns people off. We'd like to 
have a survey at the beginning of each 
semester to see what the class wants to do." 
Gagliardi, also from New jersey, feels that 
his group consists of qualified leaders who 
know what will work for the sophomQre 
class. 
"Three of us were active on the Freshman 
Advisory Council," said Gagliardi. "We 
learned a lot about what goes right and what 
goes wrong." 
Gagliardi's platform includes setting up a 
panel to review sophomore classes at the 
end of the year and push for improvements, 
and co-ed athletic tournaments. 
Lee Broussard of Howard Hall takes pride in the innovation of his platform. One of his ideas is to throw a Captain Crunch party for the entire class. 
"Sometimes people don't take us seriously for this," stated Broussard. "But we are serious." He described his idea as "just a big get-together with as much Captain Crunch as you can eat." 
Broussard, like all nine candidates, recognizes that good communication is es­sential. One way in which he would like to achieve this is through a phone-chain. Broussard says that ifeach ofhis officers calls a person from each dorm and that person continues the chain all sophomores would be contacted. 
Broussard is in a neck-and-neck race with Mike Brogioli for the votes of Howard Hall sophomores. 
Broussard is confident that he can get at least half of the hall votes. 
"Most of our platform deals with social projects (sophomore trips to away football games, a sophomore screw-your-classmate, etc.)" said Brogioli, of Massachusetts. "That's what we feel is our main respon­sibility." 
But Brogioli also sees a need for com­munity work, such as a blood-drive and student tutoring. 

Mike Kowitz, a California native and a Ho­ly Cross Hall resident, also stresses class par­ticipation. 
"We want everyone to work as a team," said Kowitz. "We'd like to give everyone a chance to help organize. A lot of people want to get involved just to get it on their resume. I think that's fine, as long as they do a good job." 
Pat Flood of Carroll Hall states that Emil Hofman, dean of freshman year studies, did an excellent job of organizing social ac­tivities for freshmen and that he would like to play that role for the sophomores. 
His planned activities ranged from trips to the dunes to a screw-your-classmate dance. 
"We want to set up a sophomore Congress which would include one elected person from each hall," said Flood describing his plans for the sophomore government. "The congress would meet monthly and give us the ideas of the class." 
Flood, an Iowa native, also emphasizes the importance ofraisng money so the class can sponsor a wide range ofactivities. 
Rick Ruehlmann, a St. Eds Hall resident and a Cincinatti native, promises to start work before the beginning of next year to organize a welcome back week for the soph­omores. 
"I think it's important to get the class to­gether at the beginning of the year," said Ruehlmann. 
Ruehlmann also want to focus on com­munity work. His proposed program in­cludes volunteer work at the Logan Center, with senior citizens, and setting up a big­brother/ big-sister program with the United Way. 
Jose Vela of Keenan Hall rounds out the list ofsophomore class president aspirants. 
Vela is not satisfied to plan the normal ac­tivities that have been done in past years. He hopes to expand into new areas like a 
masquerade party in the monogram room and a carnival in the fall. 
"I'm not interested just in the social life though," said Vela, a Chicagoan. "I'm in­terested in both sides, socal and academic." 
~·SttOWC 
$ttanget than fiction 
F
reshmen are strange. They've been here almost a whole school year now, and 
they're still as stran t ge as when they first got here. It must be part ofbeing a freshman. Admittedly, most of my knowledge offreshmen is limited to my 
acquaintance with those in my dorm, but I have found that even 
those from other dorms and quads are equally as strange. They are a strange lot. Even the girls. Freshmen are always the same. They all want to be different. They still make freshmen mistakes, like trying the breaded pork 
sandwiches in the dining hall, or running into the door that doesn't open. I made the mistake oftrying the breaded pork sandwil:h Saturday. 
ffiatc Ramitez 

features 
But it could have happened to anyone. 

It was the freshmen who provided most ofthe excitement on my dorm's trip to Chicago to see the 76ers play the Bulls. I had already found my seat and was ready for the game to begin when Phil, a tall redheaded freshman with a voice loud enough to be a self-powered 
• public address system, appeared on the scene and reported that two other freshmen had been arrested outside for scalping tickets. · 
Eventually the two freshmen were brought back sportinggrins on their faces that mad1e them look as if they were already thinking of the version ofthe story that they would tell their grandchildren. They had been selling the tickets at below-cost prices in order to dimish the hall's loss due to the unsold tickets. When the Chicago Stadium security person heard that, he sent them outside to sell the remaining tickets. 
Ah, freshmen. 

The stories they'll tell their grandchildren. The eJS:citement, the adventure ofthe panty raid on Saint Mary's; the trauma, the anxiety caused by the first Double-Emil; the initial sense ofbeing a real trend-setter, the first time parietals are broken. 
What a group ofcharacters, huh? 

The freshmen in my dorm have earned such nicknames as Sluggo, Marty Feldman, and ET. They hang around in groups. They listen to strange music and make sure that everyone else hears it too. They ask to borrow cars. 
A few freshman girls I know have this obsession with walking. They walk everywhere, at all times of the day and night, for all kinds ofreasons. They walk around the lake, they walk across the campus, they walk to McDonald's, and they walk to off-campus parties. IfI walked as much as they did I'd buy shoes with a warranty. · 
Yeah, freshmen are strange. 

The worst thing that freshmen do, but the most typical, is to ask me to write an article about them. Scott Harders and Tim Conner are only two ofthe multitude. But what can you write about freshmen? 
I guess, ifyou think about it, freshmen have made names for them­selves at Notre Dame. I mean, there's Tim Kempton, and Jim Dolan, and Allen Pinkett, and darn it, ifI could remember that guy's name from the Keenan Revue ... 
Afreshman is even the Assistant Features Editor. There's some pretty nice-looking ones, I'll admit that. From girls' dorms, ofcourse. 
But in my own dorm ...well, two ofthem live across from me, and three freshmen reside next to them, and then a guy who sometimes can pass for a freshman lives across from them, and then two more, and -oh my God, they're everywhere! 
What kind ofeffect are they having on us? What ifwe all are begin­ning to act like freshmen? What if it's a conspiracy? What ifsome ofus sophomores, juniors, and seniors make the mistake oftrying the breaded pork sandwich in the dining hall? What ifwe start playing strange music that no one else likes and play it loud so that everyone can hear it? What ifwe start hanging around in our own exclusive little groups? 
What ifwe begin to want our name mentioned in the newspaper in someone's article so that we can clip and save twenty copies to send home to Mom, Dad, Grandma, Grandpa, and all the potential HTH's we can remember? 
What ifwe begin to develop strange habits like running around awake until 4 a.m. and running around asleep until classes are finished for the day? 
Whatifwe start hating our classes, and criticizing the football and basketball teams like spoiled brats, and expecting so much out of what we contribute to so little? 
Wait a minute. 

Don't we do all ofthat already? I guess the freshmen aren't so different from us after all. We do have some pretty strange nicknames ourselves. And I suppose a few ofus guys still have whatever piece oflingerie we managed to capture during the Saint Mary's panty raid our freshman year. And maybe a few ofus still write letters on Notre Dame stationery ... 
Freshmen are just as capable ofdoing some ofthe things which we as "upperclassmen" think we can do. Not all of them, ofcourse. But then again, not all ofus upperclassmen can do everything that we should be able to do, either. 
We are pretty strange. We've been here up to three-and-a-halfyears already, and we're still as strange as when we first got here. 
It must be part of being yourself. 


SE Monday, February 28, 1983-page 8 

Boys electrify with 
I
n Fort Wayne on Friday night, The and lives like a mountain man, Oak Ridge Boys gave a powerful touched the audience with his demonstration of the attributes that rendition ofthe popular. "Thank have made them one of music's hot­God for Kids." Sterban, who sports test acts. an "Italian stallion·· image on stage, 
The Boys brought their electrify­impressed with his incredible voicj ing stage show to the Fort Wayne Bonsall, the most athletic ofthe foul Coliseum as part ofa four-day Mid­danced and jumped his way into tH western swing that included a stop hearts ofthe fans through such hiq in the Athletic and Convocation a~. "You Should Be Dancing." And: Center on Saturday. Allen, president ofall the Oaks' busi 
ness ventures, showed the style ani clarity that have earned him a
Btuce Oakley 
reputation as one of the finest lead vocalists in the land. The four are as appealing off-staR
concert review 
as on, however. The concert in For 
In Fort Wayne, the country quar­Wayne provided a special oppor­tet had the audience in a frenzy from tunity for members of the South the moment they appeared on stage. Bend media to meet The Boys awa; Scores ofwomen with roses rushed from the roar ofthe crowd. to the stage as the group opened Talking to Bonsall backstage ove with the upbeat love song, "You're a dinner ofmeatloafbefore the sho~ the One." convinces one that the enthusiasm 

The four singers, Joe Bonsall, that comesforth on stage is genuine Duane Allen, William Lee Golden, 
Richatd Stetban 
"We love what we're doing, and 
and Richard Sterban, never let the 
think it shows," said Bonsall. "We 
audience down. Bass vocalist Ster­
just love making music, and we jus1
ban was a particular favorite of the 
love people." 

women in the crowd, hitting some awesome low notes in the tender And their audiences respond to tunes, "Until You" and "Dream On." 
The award-winning Oak Ridge Band provided driving instrumental backup all night long, as well as rock­ing the crowd with a new song ofits own. Plans are in the works now for The Oaks Band to cut an album with­out The Boys. 
But any review ofan Oak Ridge Boys concert is incomplete if it men­tions only the music and the crowd. 
The keys to the success ofThe Oak Ridge Boys are their infectious enthusiasm and their ability to bring four distinct personalities into an appealing on-stage harmony, in spirit as well as sound.
Duane Allen 
William Lee Golden, who looks 
Leads, ditectot, and 
WGshin 
I 
wasn't sure it had begun. The house lights were still up, the murmur of the audience had not even begun to subside. But in fact the show began long before a trumpet blast signaled the stage band's warm-up; it began when the first patron entered the theatre. 
"All the world's a stage ..."quoth the inimitable Bard. Friday night's opening performance ofthe Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre's production ofJune Havoc'sMaratbon '33 left most ofthe world to itself, but the company certainly got one message across: all of Washington Hall's a stage. And oh-so-successful was the effort. 
Joe musumeci 
theatre review 

The play documents the atmosphere and events surrounding the dance marathon in the days of the Great Depression, a generally brutal and taxing affair which involved more-or-Jess non-stop dancing for phenomenal periods oftime. The central character pur­ports to be June Havoc in her youth, taken from an ear­lier biographical work. Director Reginald Bain has somewhat modified the original thrust of the script, which concerned itselfwith the nature ofthe marathon itself; Dr. Bain has presented the play as a coming ofage story concentrating on June and her search for identity and a place in the world. 
This plan required very Iitle modification of the script, the majority ofwhich consists ofshort spots built around the opening, closing and intermissions ofthe production. During these, June, played hy Susan Gus­dick, separates herselffrom the "reality" of the marat­hon and offers bits ofpersonal narrative to the audience. The ending is especally effective, for whereas the audience might feel mildly alienated from June at the close ofthe original script, removing her in time and space from the atmosphere of the dance hall to deliver her final lines, Bain's version lets us believe that she has indeed matured, and in some sense found the self she sought. The tone of reminscence also serves somewhat to remove the shockingly brutal mood of the evenb 
surrounding the dance marathon and those who par­ticipated -in this case, I believe the loss is an improve­ment. 
Gosdick does a creditable job as June, the ingenue marathoner who is sure she is destine·d for the "real" stage. The daughter ofa vaudeville star, she disdains the world ofthe marathon, but learns to accept the trials and pain through interaction with her partner, Patsy, played byJoseph Dolan. 
Dolan impresses as a marathon "clown," a regular on the show's tour who relieves the monotony ofthe dan­cing grudge with jokes and stunts, even performing regular marriages on tour with whomever his partner happens to be. The partofPatsy requires an air ofhope­less abandon which Dolan affects nicely; he and Gas­dick support each other well (literally, as well as figuratively; the dancers are const'!fltly called upon to "carry" each other so one can sleep during dancing periods). 
Ifthere's a fault in the actng ofthe tWO leads, it's in strength ofGosdick's portrayal; early on in the show, she occasionally fails to give the impression ofin­
nocence or naivete that June brings to the marathon. But toward the close ofthe show, both her and Dolan's performances are so poignant as to be riveting. 
Several other members of the company deserve kudus for ther work in this production -most notably, Bridget Dolan, for her portrayal ofEvie, the matronly 
1 
secretary of the marathon; Greg Hartmann and Peter 
1 
Hendrickson stood up well as the owner and emcee of 
1 
the marathon, respectively; and last but n_ot least a spe-1 cia! mention ofRobert Hall. who was truly detestable as 
1 
the sadistic official ofthe contest. 
There is Iitle to be said for the set, but only because' I there was, indeed, Iitle set. The Obser11er's Friday 1 preview of the show reported that Bain considered Washington Hall to have an "ambience well-suited to the play." I.e., the place is a dump. The hall is scheduled for remodeling, but the peeling paint and run-down ap: pearance are appropriate for the setting of the marat-I hon. By sending his actors frequently into the audience, Bain creates the image that the theater is the hall in which the contest is being held, and the audience is drawn in as a part ofthe show. The only real additions to the Washington stf.ge are a small bandstand and a series 

!................................................................................... . 
The Observer Features Section 
Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 9 
genuine enthusiasm 
to a near frenzy, again rushing the stage, as The Boys concluded with two oftheir most popular hits, "Elvira·· and "Bobbie Sue." 
But the biggest hit ofthe night just may have been the title cut from the new alborn, "American Made." A fast-moving little number about life and love in America, ''American Made" is a real crowd pleaser. 
"You Made It Beautiful" and "Heart on the Line," two other cuts from the new album, also were well received. The new album, like al­most everything The Oaks have done recently, should be a smashing success. 
The group has several business ·­ventures doing well now, including two radio stations in Terre Haute, IN, and a music publishing company in Nashville to go along with their solid business in records and souvenirs. 
Sterban is a part owner ofseveral minor league baseball teams; Gold­en lives in a refurbished 18th cen­tury home on a seven-acre estate he calls "Golden Era." 
But the four haven't let success 
spoil them. 
Golden, for example, has traced the history of his estate to the days when Indian villages occupied the land. With The Oak Ridge Boys since 1964 (longer than any other mem­ber ofthe quartet), Golden still oc­casionally sleeps in an authentic teepee he keeps on the estate. 

And the four don't let the good life 
make them lazy, either. 
"We feel like we have to give something to the people who come to see us," commented Sterban in a recent interview. "We put a lot of work into making our stage show the best it can be, because people pay a lot of money to see us. But off stage, we're also working very hard for some things we feel are impor­tant. For example, we have formed 'Stars for Kids,' and every year we put together top acts for a show to raise money for the prevention of child abuse." 
After meeting The Oaks and their entourage in person, it's hard to believe that enthusiasm alone is enough to bring four such different personalities together into a cohesive act. But it's even harder not to be caught up in that enthusiasm. 
It is very easy, however, to review one oftheir concerts after watching a screaming, jumping audience lis­ten to them for an hour and a half 
The Bellamy Brothers opened for The Oaks on this tour. They warmed up the audience with their popular hits, which include "Let Your Love Flow,'' "Redneck Girl" and "IfI Said You Had a Beautiful Body." 
Brothers Howard and David Bel­lamy played a fine up-tempo set, get­ting the crowd into a hand-clapping, foot-stomping mood and showing why they are one ofthe best opening acts going. 
The tour included stops in Cincin­nati, Fort Wayne, South Bend, and Bowling Green. 


ton Hall shioe on and on and ... 
of"period" placards which, though sloppily executed, add a touch offlavor. 
Perhaps the most impressive aspect ofthe whole show is Paul Clay's light set. While the running crews were often shaky, Clay dug boldly into the "plain and simple" tradition oflighting in Washington. For the first time in recent memory, the use ofserious color in light­ing has been brought offboth spectacularly and suc­cessfully. The use ofbacklightng to indicate space not visible to the audience is cleanly and carefully done. 
One interesting aspect ofMarathon is the musical content; as a play about a dance marathon, it necessarily includes a great deal of music and, ofcourse, dancing. Both were well-conceived. Dr. Bain's son, Reginald, Jr., composed an entirely original score, which though ap­parently not strictly authentic, well set the mood ofthe times. Kathleen Maccio's choreography is striking, and while at times the performance of the~ dancers could have been a little more precise, the dancing near the end ofthe marathon, when the participants all wheel in an exhausted slow motion, is finely designed and ex­
ecuted. 

All in all, Marathon '33 is a most enjoyable show, which shown through its minor faults and opening night quirks Friday to provide a fascinating and thought­provoking evening. The show will cominue Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. It begins at 8 p.m. and tick­ets are available for $2.50 for students, faculty and senior citizens, and $3 for all others. 

Alone and insane 
A
lone on a stage with 50 people staring at you waiting for you to do something funny, you wonder ifyour boss had such a good idea asking you to perform at the Nazz and write about the ex­perience. 
Last Saturday night, I did a standup comedy routine for the first time in my life. I was part of Magic and Comedy Night at the Nazz, with magicians Gary O'Brien, Doug Maihofer and Mike Weber, and comedian Greg Martin. 
They had all been through the process ofpublic embarrassment previously. Watching them made me painfully aware ofmy own real or imagined inadequacies. I wondered if I could recover from a bit that fell dead, ifI could handle a heckler, and indeed, even if I could keep my pants dry throughout the experience. 
My editor had co~e up with his bright idea several weeks ago, and 
Btuce Oakley 
out on a limb 

I had been preparing material -well, sort of -for those several 
.· 
weeks. But by show time, I was still unconvinced that any amount of preparation could be sufficient. 
Sure I had tried jokes and routines on friends, but the same friends 
who laugh loud and hard when they are drunk are liable to throw 
tomatoes when they are stone sober. I had even been on s t tage once 
or twice, but doing the choreography to "The Unicorn Song" while 
bombed in an Irish pub in D.C. hardly counts as decent exposure. 
I did have a couple ofthings going for me, though. For instance, I knew that I was very close to being certifiably insane. And I knew that I had at least two good jokes -how hard could it be to fill 15 minutes with two good jokes? I also knew that those tomato­throwing friends would be there, for better or ... well, they would be there. 
I determined that I needed to use insanity to best advantage, so I dug out a pair ofpajama bottoms my mother made for me once in a fit of madness (insanity is inherited, not learned, by the way). These bottoms are brilliantly colored with bright green, gold and orange horizontal stripes. I reasoned flawlessly that if the audience didn't laugh at my jokes, they would at least laugh at my clothes. 
I may be insane, but I'm not stupid. 
I carefully selected a ruffled yellow formal dress shirt and an un­deniably Cardin double breasted black blazer to complete my wardrobe for the festive occasion. · 
The ploy worked: When I stepped on stage, I felt funny. I had won halfthe battle already. 
Then I realized that I felt funny because I couldn't remember my name. But one look at my clothes reminded me who I was -only one woman in the world makes long-legged pajamas from such strange material. 
I discovered that ifl opened my mouth and passed air over my vo­cal cords, I could speak. As machinery amplified my voice to fill the basement ofan outdated building, a whole new world opened up to me. I told the audience a bit about myself, particularly the part about being insane. Since I was wearing green, orange and yellow pajamas at the time, they took me at my word and laughed a bit nervously. 
I had a bit oftrooble with the mike, which I had desperately wantedto use as a crutch. Every time I leaned on it, the darned thing collapsed. I kept tightening the joint to try to get it to hold up, but it was hopeless. I really needed that mike to lean on, l::!ecause Mother had nothad the foresight to put pockets in my pajamas. 
Hands can be a frightful liability when you begin to worry about them. 
I noticed that I was doing the work ofapproximately three and a half minds at once. I was remembering my lines, trying to adjust the mike, waiting for the audience to react, and plotting the murder of one features editor. (You can murder anyone, ifyou've halfa mind to.) 
But, by heaven, the people were laughing -and not just at my clothes. 
I thought I would make the audience more at home by telling a few Notre Dame jokes, and with a little friendly banterabout clas­swork. Also, I had gotten overly cocky at this point and forgotten the rest of my jokes, so I needed to look at my "cheat notes." 
Thinking ofcheat notes and a college crowd, I calmly asked if anybody had suffered through a test that day. Several voices from the crowd just as calmly reminded me that it was Saturday. 
A small tornado went through my mind, as I realized that my life was going down the toidy in a hurry. I thought ofthe word for "jackass" in as many foreign languages as I could recall. Even as I remembered lines from Das Niebelungenlied (never let your life flash before your eyes ifyou can help it), I heard myselfsaying quiet­ly, "I've been out ofschool for a lo-o-ong time." 
They were laughing again! Fumble recovered! 
I could be funny, even beyond appearances! 
It is said there is a thin line between insanity and genius, and I felt certain at that moment that I had erased it. The rest ofthe night was somethingofa hlur(not really, but it fits the story better). I remember celebrating my small triumph with some friends in a most traditional fashion. Actually, I remember waking up the next morning feeling as though I had celebrated with some friends in a most traditional fashion. Anyway, since the performance, I have been thinking that maybe the features editor is a nice guy after all. I have been thinking of things I did wrong, planning simple ways to improve the next time. Next time?! I can't be serious' But maybe it's better that way ... By the way, if you get a chance to see Greg Martin, Doug Maihofer, Gary O'Brien or Mike Weber perform, go. You'll enjoy it. 
Editorials 
Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 10 
When Hesburgh speaks, should Notre Dame? 
In the Feb. 24 issue ofTbeNew York Times, a group known as The Bi-Partisan Appeal purchased two full-page advertisements. The group urged the president and Congress "to resolve the budget crisis" by implementing a fiscal policy which the group outlined in its ad. 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 

Over 300 men and women, mcluding f0i­mer public officials, lawyers, corporate ex­ecutives, and educators signed the ad which stated: "The Nation cannot afford to leave the budget to politics as usual. It is time to set aside differences of party, region and ideol­ogy. We appeal to you, our leaders, to display true leadership in the spirit of national unity, to resolve the current crisis. Only ifyou do so can the balance ofthe century yet be a time of prosperity and growth, ofnew jobs and higher standards of living. And only if it is, can we leave future generations with a richer and stronger America." 
Among the distinguished signers is Reverend Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame.. 
The appeal calls for a n 75 billion cut in the 1985 deficit including a $60 billion decrease from "a one-year freeze in the growth of benefit levels of cash payments flowing from the large, non-means tested entitlement programs," and a federal tax increase of $60 billion for fiscal year 1985. 
But the appeal not only calls for an amended fiscal policy. 
The text of the appeal also includes a sec­tion on the restructuring of defense funding: "The defense budget increases now planned should be moderated so as to save about 25 billion dollars in fiscal year 1985. This would still provide for a major and sustained defense buildup, an overall increase i·n real terms be­tween 1981 and 1985 ofabout 7 percent and an increase in hardware purchases ofabout 11 percent per annum. It would encourage more explicit planning for that buildup, and lead to wider, sustained public support for a strong defense posture." 
Hesburgh is joined by such educators as Donald Kennedy of Stanford, Paul Gray of M.l.T., and Stephen Graubard of Brown; however, the committee also includes Robert 
S. McNamara, Secretary of Defense during the height of the Vietnam War,)ohn C. Bierwirth of the Grumman Corporation and Donald N. Frey ofthe Bell & Howell Corporation. Grum­man and Bell & Howell hold major defense contracts. 
While an almost microscopic disclaimer for the Supporters of the Bi-Partisan Appeal on the Budget Crisis reads, "Typically, the or­ganization's names are used for identification purposes only," the man who has championed the cause of nuclear disarmament supports an appeal which calls for an 11 percent increase in weapons purchase and "sustained public support for a strong defense posture." 

Where is the thrust of the "Vienna Ac­cords," which stated: "It is imperative to reduce distrust and to increase hope and con­fidence through a succession of steps to curb the development, testing, production, and deployment of nuclear weapons systems, and to reduce them to substantially lower levels, with the ultimate hope of their complete elimination." 
Regardless of the disclaimer divesting Hes­burgh of any ties to the University of Notre Dame, the 2 million readers ofThe New York Times as well as most of the students and the faculty of Notre Dame, see Hesburgh and the University as inseparable entities. When Hes­burgh speaks, so does Notre Dame. 
But somehow, the students and faculty of Notre Dame were neither consulted nor advised of this latest Hesburgh move. As al­ways, the name ofthe University was attached "for identification purposes only." 
But I, alongwith many other faculty and stu­dents am tired of being identified with Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
Copyright infringement suit: ''Let it end" 
What do the Bee Gees have to do with a struggling songwriter from a small Chicago suburb? According to a federal jury, a bit too much. Last Wednesday, an obscure man named Ronald Selle found himselfon the win­ning end ofa copyright infringement suit. The question: did Barry, Maurice, and Robin Gibb steal some melody lines from Selle's "Let It End" and use them in the biggest hit of their career, "How Deep Is Your Love"? 
Tim Neely 
My Turn 

The precedent in this case was the 1976 suit filed by Bright Tunes, publisher of the 1963 number one hit "He's So Fine," against George Harrison, late of the Beatles. They claimed thatHarrison's biggest hit, "My Sweet Lord," infringed on their copyright, and were found correct. Those two songs are strikingly similar in melody, and as "He's So Fine" was a massive hit that Harrison likely heard, put into the recesses of his mind, and then uninten­tionally recalled when he wanted a tune for "My Sweet Lord," their case was not im­plausible. It was an innocent mistake -to the tune of a 5587,000 settlement. (Harrison got the last laugh out ofit by writing a song which "don't infringe on anyone's copyright" and "has nothing Bright about it.") 
After Selle heard "his" song on hi-s radio in 1978 while doing yardwork, under the guise of words entitled "How Deep Is Your Love," he decided to sue on the same grounds as the Bright Tunes suit. This David took on Goliath, and somehow he won. 
But one question remains in my mind: bow did the Bee Gees ever bear his song? 
Selle claims he sent his song, "Let It End," to I4 recording companies, all ofwhom rejected it because ofits unsolicited nature. Supposed­ly, only II of the tapes were returned. Therefore, he claimed that the Bee Gees could have heard it, as one of those record com­panies was RSO, the Gibb brothers' label. 
But how? 

The Bee Gees write 99 percent oftheir own material. Only on two fiascos, the movie soundtracks to All This and World War II ( I976) and Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band ( 1978), have they performed others' material, and all those were originally done by the Beatles. They had not done any un-original material since I965 before those soundtracks, and even then, all those songs were remakes. They don't need to listen to any unsolicited ­or solicited -tapes to come up with material. 
If Selle's song 'ad been released to the public in I975 -the year ofhis copyright and two years before the Gibbs wrote "How Deep Is Your Love" -I could understand the pos­sible unintentional plagiarism. But it was never played on the radio, never even pressed onto plastic. Therefore that important ques­tion remains. 
Assuming the Bee Gees never heard his song -which I happen to believe -then what about Arnold Parsons, a music theory ex­pert from Northwestern University, and his contention that the two songs "could not have been written independently of one another"? Well, the odds are against him. There are mil­lions of copyrighted songs and relatively few possible permutations of the limited number of notes available to create melodies. Some of those millions of songs could also be the vic­tims ofso-called infringement suits because of this. For example: 
•Ray Davies could have a case against The Doors, as the latter's "Hello, I Love You" is similar to the Kinks' "All Day and All of the Night." 

•How 
about the opening measures ofSteve Miller's I976 hit "Rock'n Me" compared to the beginning of Free's I970 recording of"All Right Now"? 

•Led 
Zeppelin was notorious for "re­writing" blues standards, some of which are copyrighted; their biggest hit, "Whole Lotta Love," is one ofthese. , 

•Finally, 
in one as equally absurd as the Selle-Bee Gees case, the publishers of the hymn ''Abba, Father" are considering suing Vangelis, a Greek who likely never heard the song, because they claimed he copped the melody and used it in his Academy Award­winning theme music from "Chariots ofFire." 


Over the past couple of days I have heard the pertinent sections of Selle's song, and indeed similarities exist -some very striking ones. But until the nagging question ofwhere the Brothers Gibb heard" Let It End" -that is, ofcourse, ifthey did -is answered, I feel the jury made a mistake. The Bee Gees are appeal­ing, and justifiably; if justice prevails, the original ruling will be overturned. 
Church's role in Nicaragua 
In a region crippled by oppression and poverty, the Nicaraguan experience suggests to some a new alternative for Central America, largely because of the unparalled extent of Church participation in societal change. As 
Ellen Hawley 
Guest Columnist 

Christians seek to further defme their place in modern society, many look toward Nicaragua as a model of the critical role which the Church must play in the struggle of the poor. Although sometimes criticized for their in­volvement in the revolutionary process, many Christians believe that any authentic attempt to live the Gospels necessitates taking part in the development ofa more just society. 
Soon after the I979 revolution, Nicaragua's seven bishops signed a letter affirming their continued support of the change process. Since that time, however, a great deal ofcon­troversy has surfaced with regard to the church-state relationship. There have been accusations that the government is now trying to undermine Church influence, to restrict the Church's independence and to silence its criticisms. At the same time, there are five priests directly involved in the government. Religious freedom has been publicly and offi­cially guaranteed, and, perhaps most telling, closer scrutiny reveals that these accu.sations ofstate interference are strongly linked to one f!.gure, Archbishop Obando y Bravo. Outside of his Managuan diocese, priests and bishops throughout the country report a positive and constructive relationship with the govern­ment. 
Today, the precarious economic situation and the ominous threat posed by the U.S. military build-up of Honduras are ony two of the many factors which combine to create a situation of high tension in Nicaragua. The Church, as an institution of all classes and an integral part of society, is not uneffected by the conflict in the political and economic arenas. Likewise, any action on the part of the Church takes on an unavoidably political aspect in the minds of the people. The ques­tions concerning the proper role of the Church in society are not easily resolved in 

Ih~~========== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curate!}' and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinionson ~mpus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes ExecutiveNews Editor ..............David Dziedzic SMCExecutive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ..................... : ...... Joe Musumeci Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 

such a situation -and yet the very nature of Nicaragua's problems make such a resolution imperative. 
On Tuesday, March 1, immediately after the 7 p.m. showing ofWomen in Arms, two mem­bers of the Nicaraguan clergy will discuss their roles in the revolution and share their thoughts on the role of the Church in Nicaragua today. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Latin American Solidarity Coalition, Father Enrique Blandon and Rev. Patricia Castro are part of an ecumenical group touring the United States through the National Nicaragua Network in Washington, D.C. This event will take place in the Center for Social Concerns. Admission is free and discussion is guaranteed to be thought-provoking. 
Department Managers 
BusinessManager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ........................... Bruce· Oakley 
Founded November 3, 196(i, 

Editorials Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 11 
A poke at ourselves _ 
Junior Parents Weekend, I watched the juniors of Notre Dame and their parents smiling, laughing, and running from cocktail dances to farewell breakfasts. Quite late Sun­day some fairly warped thoughts struck my restless fancy, and somehow I decided to preserve them. What follows here is un­believable and, most assuredly, fictional. 
Patrick Waring 
Guest Columnist 

Now, as a senior under the Golden Dome, I look back to a year ago when I too spent an enlightening time with my own mom and dad. I had dreamed of and developed a few politi­cal insights over the last two and a half years and only that weekend felt courageous enough to confront the folks with my new found liberal outlook. They were here at last, at Notre Dame, on my turf. Finally, I was ready to let them know all about the evils ofbuilding up nuclear weaponry and casually mentioned that I had joined a campus-wide nuclear awareness group. At that time I felt that the escalating arms race might be both a dan· gerous and wasteful folly. Human sin or error might dramatically erase God's greatest crea­tion, the line of Adam and Eve. Ironically, we were also creators but quite different from God, creators with a freakishly destructive view. I believed wholeheartedly in Thomas Merton's words: "Can we not see that to risk the destruction of man for the supposed glory of Christ, is, in effect, to crucify Christ over again in his members." 
While my father started to worry aloud that I might be advocating anarchy or joining some leftist group, my mother, getting a little nerv­ous. told me that I must understand the dif­
ference between physical and moral evil. As I recall, Mom said that physical evil is human pain, suffering, and death; and moral evil is the loss of human freedom, of choice. While the death of every person in the world after a nuclear holocaust could be seen as physical evil, the risk of loss of human freedom, presumably to the Russians, offered the greater moral evil. Really worked up now, she declared, "it's ideas like yours that make the world unsafe and pave the way for Nazism and Communism!" Stunned a little by her aggres­sion, I stammered back that perhaps the money to build bombs could be better spent to serve the poor in Appalachia or in our ur­ban areas. "Hogwash," shot back my old man, "our American poor at least can vote, leave the country if they don't like it, and choose 
. their own destinies. Here, people are free to move up. A few stay poor because ... well, because they're shiftless." 

Two against one didn't seem quite fair, but. a few months later, 1 started to see the light and understand what they were getting at. Merton and I were looking at things a little simple-mindedly. A year older and wiser, I chuckle everytime I remember my bleeding­heart liberal past. For three years, I walked to Logan Center every Saturday morning and tutored at the -nearby juvenile facility on ' Thursday nights. Now, I "get Tankard" at the Marriott on Thursday nights, sleep in on Satur­day to watch basketball on TV, and thumb my nose at the old WNDU building everytime I pass. I can't believe they wasted all that time and university funds renovating that dump to try and help the disadvantaged when we'll probably all be blown to smithereens in a few years anyhow. I shudder when I think what my life would have been like had my parents not come up for that weekend last year. Hell, I'd still be in the dark. 
P.O. .BoxQ 
"Quality of life?" 
DearEditor: 
To the anonymous "pro-choice" advocate writing in these pages recently, I offer the following thoughts-to mull over: 
Q. In the ongoing abortion controversy, what exactly is this "choice" that pro-choice people talk about so much? 
A. One might be cute and say the "choice" exercised by these people is to torture and strangle the English language to the point where language and reality do not resemble each other. I say this because the language presently used to state the pro-choice argu­ment makes little sense. A "choice" for life occurs in the very act of procreation, no matter what precautions may be taken to avert it. After pregnancy has occured ­which is the period pro-choice people most­ly talk about -the only "choice" being ex­ercised is the decision to kill a biologically living "thing." 
Q. What is this "thing" that is killed in abortion? 
A. Whether the "thing" in the womb is 1 ) a human and 2) a legal person is immaterial in this context. The point is that if this thing is undisturbed for nine months, and if nature doesn't dictate otherwise, it is undeniably both a hum:m and a person when it changes its location from its mother's womb to her arms. Why should a mere accident of loca­tion make a life-death difference? 
Q. Shouldn't anti-abortionists be con­cerned about the quality of life facing an offspring that is possibly unwanted, possibly destined for poverty and suffering, possibly 

mentally  retarded  or  otherwise  hand­ 
icapped?  
A. Of  course  we should.  But  whose  

"ql\lllity of life" are pro-choice people most concerned about? Certainly not the abortee for whom there can be no quality because there will be no life. Our society is in a bad way if its modus operandi for curing a disease is to kill the patient. 
Q. If anti-abortionists make exceptions, permitting abortion to save the life of the mother or in cases involving rape and incest, aren't they being inconsistent? 
A. Yes, ifthey do this they are being incon­sistent, or at least guilty of muddled think­ing. We cannot commit an evil act so that "good" wlll come out ofit. The best medical science disavows this Hobson's choice and tries to save both mother and baby, never deliberately killing the one or the other. There are no exceprions to this anti­abortion position when properly under­stood. 
Q. Isn't it true that anti-abortionists seek to impose their morality on others, thereby limiting thes... other,· freedom ofchoice?. 
A. In a cntain sense, anti-abortionists must plead guilty to this charge~ By the same token, howcv<>r. pro-abortionists and pro­choice pcuplt: uupose their morality on me, a male who abhors abortion as a moral monstrosity, yet muc ~till accept its legaliza­tion and in ~orne ir-s.ar1ces even tlnancially support It~~ cn·Ymu;~nce with tax money. I cannot use th.: ;ult:m familiar cop-out -"I am personally oppo5ed. but ..."-because that wGuld, at best, be saying that I'm neutral. To be neutral on a moral issue of such dimension' 1s equivalent to making a very dogmatic statement, namely, "Abortion is unimportant and doesn't matter." I cannot say that because I do not believe it. 

In every important political question ­slavery or war, for instance -there is a moral dimension. If we increase defense­spending, we impose a moral constraint on those loyal citizens who not only oppose war but even preparations for it. If we cut defense-spending recklessly, we morally constrain those who believe in their hearts that the best way to reduce the chance of war is to be prepared for it. 
Like the "quality oflife" argument, imposi­tion of morality is a phoney issue. Or as Har­ry Truman used to say, "a red herring." 
Charles W. McCollester 
Snite thank you 
DearEditor: 

We are writing to express our apprecia­tion for your excellent .coverage of and cooperation . with the recent Christo opening at The Snite Museum of Art. The layout and design of the features section, as well as that of our advertisements, were quite professionally done. 
We would also like to thank the students 
and faculty for their support through their 
presence at the opening and their continued 
attendance at the museum. The opening was 
such a smashing success because of the 
many who attended. We are pleased that so 
many students signed up for membership in 
the Friends of The Snite. Student member­
ships are free and ensure that you wll be in­
formed ofall happenings at The Snite, as well 
as other benefits. 

Lastly~ we'd like to remind everyone that 
the Christo show wll be here until March 20; 
the films are still being shown and posters 
and postcards are still on sale. Please stop by 
soon. We are open until8 p.m. on Thursdays; 
until 4 p.m. on other days except Mondays. 
The StaffofThe Snite Museum ofArt 
Lenten ways 
DearEditor: 

To a world decaying in unbelief, the South Dining Hall proclaims its status as a Catholic cafeteria. Solemn, black-lettered ·posters sternly warn Catholics that the Fridays of Lent are days of abstinence, at least in that part of the Universal Church represented by the Diocese offort Wayne-South Bend. (In the Universal and, presumably, Lukewarm Church, only Ash Wednesday and Good Friday are meatless days, but the American bishops have laudably insisted on this means of sparing us the difficulty of thinking for ourselves.) 'J('hat satisfaction to an American Catholic to know that his Friday cheesebur­ger may place him in the depths ofan inferno unknown not onlv to Dante but to many Cat­holics in most other countries. But let those despicably subversive theologians disturb us with questions about the cogency of geographical sin (it's not what you do, but where you do it). Better that th~ South Dining Hall should supplement this program of Catholic Eating in a variety of easy steps. First, on the Fridays of Lent, divide the cafeteria into two sections: Meat-eating and 
Meatless. In the former, our misguided but blameless brothers and sisters, of other or not faith, may eat their meat without op­probrium. Here, sad to say, they will be joined by hardhearted, truculent, meat­eating Papists, who could be pelted, however, from the devouter Meatless Sec­tion with various tokens of the Higher Al­legiance: shrimp tail, macaroni noodles, eggs, cheese, and bones from the not always well-filleted fish. Indeed, those asking for meat on Friday should be required to show either proof of non-Catholic status or proof that, though Catholic, they are not between the obligatory meatless years of 14 through 
59. Such proof of age is especially needed from faculty members, whose rundown physical condition suggests an enfeebled an­tiquity in need ofwhatever food it can get its hands on. Perhaps too, those caught sneak­ing bacon bits into their croutons might be required to wear a huge M on the breast, identifying them in some pillory as shame­less, impenitent Lenten Friday meat-eaters. I envision the day, in fact, when the university chaplain will prepare the Lenten menu published from one combined, bureaucrati­cally efficient Office of Campus Ministry, Food Preparation, and Public Relations. That way the left hand will always know what the right hand is doing. Isn't that what the New Testament says? 
Thomasjemiel~y 
Paxson vs. who? 
DearEditor: 
Bob Rupert, coach of the Akron Zips, may be right. Joe Jakubick may be a better player than John Paxson. Let us look at the facts. Rupert says Jakubick shoots from a greater distance than Paxson. It's true, John. How many forty foot jump shots did you take against Akron? Jakubick shot at least six of them. I think he even hit one. Look, John, don't be a quiche-eater. Quit driving around guards and putting on pretty moves for layups. Shoot from forty feet! Digger won't mind. 

Joe has guts; you do not. Okay, so you won the UCLA game in LA with pressure-packed last second free throws as a freshman. I'll give you that. Yes, you have won other games with timely shooting, passing, defense, ball-handling, rebounding, and con­cession stand work. Still, the real question has yet to be asked. Can you shoot off­balance likeJoe Jakubick? 
John Paxson, you are too much of a team player. Your unselfish attitude can only bring us an NCAA tournament bid and you an excellent NBA career. It is not everything you know. 
Let's face it. Only one conclusion can be drawn from these obs·ervations. Bob Rupert is a raving maniac. I know I would be afraid to ride on the same team bus with him. Moreover, he may be extremely near­sighted. I wonder if he got lost in one of the ACC bathroons and never actually saw the game. 
Oh well, John, keep trying. You'll get bet­ter. You may even get the privilege of making first team All-American -next to ole Joe What's-his-name, ofcourse. 
William R. Mack 

Editors Note: Letters should be brief and deal with specitlc issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subjectto editing. 
h,l[ 
' • I 


~j)()f1tS=/=~=~==i=~~=S==============================M=on=d=ay='=Fe=b=r~~a=ry=2=8='=19=8=3==p=a=ge===l2
By The Obsert'l!r anu The Associated Press 
Prospective cheerleaders take note. There will he an organizational meeting fi.Jr those interested in trying out for the 198:3-8~ squad tomorrou'. at 7:00 p.m. in the Lafortune Ball­room. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will holu an important 
meeting Wednesday at :-p.m. at Caron Court, LaFortune. We will decide on the fate ofour spring season. Absence will he interpreted as a ;\I() vote, so please he there. Questions, call John. 68:3~. -The Obserz•er. 
In three excellent gameS yesterday. the Nos. :3 .tnd I 0 ranked teams won while No. I had a tew prohkms. (;reg Jones scored :32 points as West Virginia dealt top-ranked Nevada-Las \"egas its seconu straight college haskethall loss, H~--H. Tht: :\1oun­tamecrs. 19-6. g'Jincd their ninth victorv in tht:ir last I0 gaml·s. The Runnin' Reheb, who also lost to Cal-Fullerton, arc 2+2. Kenny Walker came off tht: bench to ~core 19 points and propd No. I 0 Kentucky to a 6')-61 victory over Tt:nnt:ssee in a nationally tdevised Southeastt:rn Conference haskethall game. With its \'ictory, Ken­tucky dincht:d at kast a tit: for its 5-ith SEC championship. The Wildcats are 20-'i overall and 12-·! in the SEC. Tennessee dropped to 1--9 and 9-H. Rick Carlisle: scored 2,~ points and No. 5 Virginia had five players in double figures as the Cavaliers rolkd to an 86-"''i Atlantic Coast Conference basketball victorv over North Carolina State's Wolfpack. Tht: Cavalit:rs upped their ACC record to 10-2 and their overall mark to 25-5. while N.C. State:. losin~ for the seventh straight time against Virginia, fell to 7-'i in the ACC and 16-9 overall. 
-AP 

Classifieds 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club will be practicing 
hehinu Jake Kline field, weather permitting. The practices will run 
from :3::30 to 'i::30 :\1onuay through Friuay. New members are 
welcome. -The Obsert'er 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be meeting tomon-ou• at H p.m. in Saint Ed'~ ChapeL All are invited. -The ( J/Jsen•er 
The Interhall swim meet ~d1cdulnl t<)f today 
ha.~ been re~chedukd to Tuesday..\!larch HatH p.m.. ;\IVA announceu p:stl'fday. -!he (Jhserl'er 
Weekend transactions include the New York 
Y;mkt'l'S signin~ intidder ()ti~ Nixon and first hast· man Don :\1atting­
lv. and added outfielder Rowland Office to their Columbus roster. The :"kw York ,\leb ~~~neLl pttcher Ed l.vnch. In l 'nited States Foot­hall action, the Chicago Blitz signed t(>rmer Los Angks Ram punter­placekicker Frank Corral to a rnulti-vear contract. The \lichigan Panthers signed wide recievt·r Anthonv Carter to a multi-year con­tract. Tlw Washington Federals rdeased defen~ive hack .Jeff Postell, linebacker~ Brad Carr and Kevin Patterson, offt:nsive tackle Rod Caldwell, placekicker Brian Fram:o. guard c;eorge Snowden, and quarterhack-punter Mikt: Forslund. In hockey, the Buffalo Sabers recalled goalie Phil Myre of the AHL, and sent goalie Jacques Cloutier to Rochester. The New .Jersey Devils recalled centt:r Larry Floyd and right wing Mike Moher from the CHA. -AP 
• • • Men 
continued from Ptlge 16 
also had I 0 points and seven hoards. 
"We're not discouraged by this loss," expressed Phdps. "In game~ likt· this, you ~et the helief vou can do thin!-(s m adver~itv."' 
llopetullv, the tournament com­
mittee gets that hehef also. 
IRISH ITE."v!S-:'llotre Dame made only -of 1-1 from rhe foul line. hut that wa~ like Calvin \lurphy compared to DePaul. The victorious Demons h1t onlv I >,of 29 includin~ a +f(>r-10 pertilfnunce by "'\1\"P" Pat­terson. . The lnsh shot 'i9 per­cent in tht· second halfand lnt for 'iO percent in the game. The lnsh ~ere t(iurth 111 the countrv in tkld goal percentage ( 'i'i.2) this wt:ek ht:hind Pepperdme. Kcmuckv. ami '\lew Or­It-an~. The game marked the third straight 'Tar the Demons ha\T heaten the Irish. :'\otre Dame ~ttll leads the all-ttme series. -1 1-2"'. Seron Hall. the next opponent tiJr tht: Irish. is only 'i-20. The Piratn, who heat :-.Jotre Dame: ~ l·'i8 last year at the :\1eadowlands. are com­ing off of an upset win over Pitt and an -1-60 loss to Georgetown last 
Saturday... 

The Observer w;ll accept class;l;eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p m However. classtfleds to appear tn the next ;ssue must be rece;ved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to ;nsert;on All class;f;eds must be prepa1d. e;ther ;n person or through the mail. 
NOTICES  TO THE PERSON THAT TOOK MY BLUE DOWN VEST FROM t2t OSHAG ON TUES.,FEB.23. PLEASE RETURN  Need nde to NJ or NYC Can leave 311 0 Karen 284·5338 a her 11 p m  PERSONALS  GOOD LUCK WILLIAM DAWAHARE TINA PERSSON MARK MANLEY MARK BUSCHMAN MORE FOR 84  ATTENTION SOPHOMORES There's a vote com1ng up to vote tor your class Officers Do you really care? We all  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082  IT AND/OR KEYS THAT ARE IN THE  '!'ENERGY!!! MORE FOR 84  know 1t"s ;ust a resume bUilding JOb So  
POCKET(THESE ARE MY  I need nde to Ph1lly, NYC, Ballo .. or DC  !!!ENERGY!!I  why take 1t senously. Thafs why were  
Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car, Friday noon til Monday noon $29.95 includes  ROOM,HOUSE,WORK,MAIL, AND HOUSE KEYS) PLEASE RETURN TO  for break. Must leave Wednesday 3109 Call W1ll -8659. I  NOW RUTH ANN, WHAT'S THIS ABOUT KINKY  For Junior Class Officers WRITE IN  runmng Hor those off1ces We re the Californian ticket We senous about not  
150 1ree miles. Sales tax &: insurance  LOST AND FOUND OR CALL TED AT  LIGHTS?  CALIFORNIAN WRITE IN CALIFOR­ taktng thts whole thtng senously A vote  
.•  extra. Phone Rob tor reservations 259­ 1101.1'M DESPERATEIII  VOLUPTUOUS BLONDE needs a nde  NIAN WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN WRITE  for us 15 a vote for you, the real sopho·  
8459.  home to the M~nn-St. Paul area for spnng  IN CALIFORNIAN WRITE IN CALIFOR­ mores of Notre Dame. not a vote for JUSt  
FOUND Two different sets of keys. One  break If you re go1ng my way, call Sue at  GREAT BOOKS--GREAT MINDS-­ NIAN WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN (and  those beauttful people· who like runntng  
TYPING  set found on South Quad near Cushing  2170  MEET FACULTY AND STUDENTS OF  vote no to stupid class campaigns!)  for such stuptd offtces and put out  
Jack1e Boggs  two weeks ago. On Amencan Express  THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES  garbage on all the th1ngs they II do when  
684-8793  Key nng. Other set found about two  R1de Needed to I. U. weekend of March 4  MONDAY FEB 28, 6:30 PM.. GRACE  JPW proofs JPW proofs on display Frl  we all know 1t's a JOke.  
weeks ago near Badm Hall On metal nng;  call Jerry 6756  PIT  Feb 25, Mon Feb 28 -Wed Mar 2 in  
poss1bly Hall Staff keys If yours. call and  South Alcove at LaFortune. 12-5 each  So cast a vote thts year that you ve al·  
TYPING WANTED 277-8534 6-10 PM M­ 1dent1fy them Call M1ke at x1404  WANTED need one RIDER to come back  HAPPY BIRTHDAY LAURA FARR l"d  day. Bring coupon tor tree pictureI  ways wanted to cast Vote Californian  
F. ALL DAY WKNDS  from HOUSTON, TEXAS to ND Will be  call, but you don I always return my  But you'll have to wnte us 1n smce those  
ATIN. ALL NEW ENGLANDERS!!!  Large $REWARD$  return1ng on e1ther the 18th or the 19th of March W1ll spill the usual costs. Call  calls  ONE or TWO RIDES needed to the GAR·  elect1on people wouldn·t pr1nt our name on the ballot. So do 11: don·! hold back  
Connecttcut Club IS aga1n offenng an exc111ng and fun-f1lled bus nde back for spnng break Cost IS $90 and stops are 1n Fa1rf1eld and Hartford Bnng money to  -for the return or whereabouts of HP-11C calculator taken from a blue backpack at SMC D1n1ng Hall Thur n1ght, 2-24 No quest1ons asked. Has Personal Value­ Rosemary at 6858 or Kelly at6715. Need RIDE to Phiadelphla or W1lm~ngton. De area tor spnng break. Please call Matt  NEW HOURS FOR CENTER FOR SO­CIAL CONCERNS Monday thru Thursday·-8 AM-1 t 30 PM: Fnday -· 8 AM· 10 PM. Saturday .. 2 PM · 5 PM:  DEN STATE for Spnng Break Yes. we do want to go to NEW JERSEY for break. W1ll pay the uusual Please (PLEASE) call Sarah at 1361 or Mary att272 Please!!!!!  WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN  
s1gn ups on Mon.. Feb.28. hrst floor La Fortune. 6-7pm. FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE CRUISE SHIP JOBS! Great 1ncome potent1at. all occupations. For mtormat1on  Please call K1m -4176 WANTED  7374 Need nde to MINNESOTA lor spnng breal< Can leave anyt1me Call Margte at SMC 4173  Sunday·-6 PM-10 PM Marathon 331 Marathon 331 Marathon 331  CONNECTICUT bound?l We need (desperately) ONE or TWO ndes to CON· NECTICUT for Spnng Break Please call Mary at 1272 orSarah at 1361 W1ll pay the usual.  WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN Do 11 and get all your trustratton off your chest! Were wetrd. notwterd! You forgot George and 6111 From that 20 of sway1ng death,  
call: 602-837-3401. ext 866  nde needed to VIRGINIA for sprmg break·  SIMBA  
-can leave early call Shelly x8 t 48  MEESHI  D C CLUB -BUS SiGN-UPS FOR  
ANY EXTRA GRAD TIX? W1ll pay$ Call Tom 288-5871  Surfs up tn So. California. Onv1ng to Cal1fornta tor spnng break? 1 could use a  MEESHI MEESHI  SPRING BREAK WILL BE TUESDAY. MARCH 1, 10-11 PM ON FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE $70 00 ROUND TRIP  Thanks for shanng your real b·day wrth my "fake one! Gel-ebrate• Love '11e  
DC CLUB SIGN-UPS FOR THE SPRING BREAK BUS ARE TUESDAY. MARCH 1 FROM 10·11 PM, FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE FIRST COME.  ilh. G1ve M1ke a call at x1688 Thanks R1ders needed to N Y C for break. Call Karl x3113  FOR SALE  FENWICK produces SOCIAL RETARDS ATTN ALL NEW ENGLANDERSIII Con·  YOU MUST PAYT WHEN YOU SIGN UP RICHARD PAXTON LOVES BABY SHEEP"  MIKE KALATA. CONGRATULA T/ONS on getting ac· cepted!  
FIRST SERVE $70.00 ROUND-TRIP  for sale 1977 BMW 320i.LUXUS  nect1cut Club ts agatn oHenng an exctttng  Love,  
YOU MUST PAY WHEN YOU SIGN UP  RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY NEW YORK  PACKAGE.FLORIDA CAR.GREAT  and tun-filled bus nde back tor spnng  MARYA G. Surpnse!! Yes. a personal for  Kathy  
FOR SPRING BREAK---CAN LEAVE  SHAPE.$6.800 Call283-1166  .break Cost IS $90 and stops are tn Fatr·  you! Just wanted to tell you that you re the  
ANYTIME WILL SHARE USUAL CALL  field and Hartford Bnng money to s1gn  best SISter anyone could have!! Hope you  
LOST/FOUND  CHRIS AT 3510 OR 8573 ANYTIME--­NEW JERSEY RIDE NEEDED TO NORTH/CENTRAL NJ FOR SPRING BREAK PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906  FOR SALE 73 Pon!lac Ventura, one owner. low mileage. full power. $795 or best offer Call239-6539 or 277·3333. FOR SAIL· OffiCial Notre Dame Sa1hng  upson Mon. Feb 28. first tloor La Forune, 6-7pm FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE Need R1de To Connecttcut For Spnng Break W1ll Share Usual. Please Call Dan  have a very Happy Birthday' WE MISS YOU1! Love. L1sa & T1m ST EDS HOOPS TEAM& PETER T Thanks for lett1ng me be a part of •I thiS  HEY CALIFORNIANS, DA MOB DON'T LIKE PUNKS TRYING TO MAKE A MOCKERY OF OUR FINE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS LETS TALK IN D2 SURFER FAGS  
LOST ND CLASS RING(83). NAME  Club T-sh1rts. Blow your fnend(s) away'  at x6824  year You·re great. You boys been good  
INSIDE. BLUE STOME, LOST POSSIB· LY AT SMC(MOREAU-OLAUGHLIN HALL). LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND OF 1128-t 130. BIG REWARD $$$ OF­ TO CHICAGO FROM SOUTH BEND -ONE WAY, $15. ROUND TRIP, $28. PHONE 234-6778.  We ve been domg a BOOMtng bwsness so order fast before they"re all gone• Call Lou at 6713  Career Information tor Government majora tommorrow at 4:15p.m. in 103 O'Shag. Sponsored by the Placement  tome FING  DON'T BE MISLED JUNIORS, DA MOB KNOWS WHATS BEST FOR YA VOTE MOB  
FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO  Bureau. Don't miss It  Job Bank Job open1ng at Trans-World  VOTE MOB VOTE MOB  
PLEASE CALL 283-3346  HELP!' Need RIDE/RIDERS to PITTS March 4-6 Call Jlm·-8921  TICKETS  FOR A NECTAR YEAR: WRITE IN  Arttsts selltng tickets over the phone tor a Country Western show A separate JOb  
To the person who removed my blue Or­ganiC Chem1stry notebook from the South D1n1ng Hall on Fnday. Feb 11. between 1 J.. 1:30pm, I would apprec1ate 1ts 1m­ned1ate return I'll be glad to let you bor­row 1t some t1me when I don·t need 11! My name and number 15 on 1f so cal! me!  BOSTON or MAINE Do· you have space 1n your car? I need a nde there for spnng break Call8857 RIDERS NEEDED TO MEMPHIS TENN OR LITTLE ROCK ARK FOR SPRING  Need 4 Dayton T1ckets Please call1700 ., FOR RENT  CALIFORNIAN ON MARCH 1 FOR JR. CLASS OFFICERS. VOTE NO TO BORING, UNI­MAGINATIVE CAMPAIGNS: WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN FOR CLASS OF '85 OF­FICERS.  deJJVermg these tickets 1s also open For 1nfo call288·7403 and ask for Wayne or L~nda Barnett. Need an aggressive person to work on a commtss1on basts. here on campus S1nger Gen Tlfe, Tnc 15 mterested msuch  BEST VIIISHES TO THE ENERGETIC 84 TEAM"' MORE FOR "84"" WILLIAM DAWAHARE TINA PERSSON MARK MANLEY MARK BUSCHMAN LOVE. B& M  
LOST PAIR OF SILVER FRAMED GLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE THE CASE WAS FALLING APART AND IS HELD TOGETHER BY A PIECE OF SILVER DUCT TAPE IF FOUND PLEASE CALL PHIL AT 8295 9ESPERAELY NEEDED!!!I!I!!!!!!!!!!  BREAK CALL JOY t318 NEED 1 OR 2 RIDES TO B HAM ALABAMA FOR SPRING BREAK CALL PATTY 284·5018 Need rtders ONE WAY to Md ID C. area 1eav1ng Wed..Mar 9. Andy, 1246  '---------------' House 4 bed10om. near ND, $250 per mo Fall or summer No utthhes Phone (319) 322-8735. Pany APTS NEAR NO FOR RENT UTILS PD LESS GAS PH 2720261  REMEMBER--THE MOB REMEMBERS ITS FRIENDS AND ITS ENEMIES!/ BOSTON BUS FOR SPRING BREAK SIGNUPSMONDAY, FEB 28, 7pm LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE $50 DEPOSIT REQUIRED. LEAVES THE 11th. ??Call Mike 277-3276 or John  a person For mto call' Tom Shanahan at 291-4616 Job opemng at W1lilams Home Center 1n sales and stock For •nfo call Greg RIChards at 291·8500 Job opernng at W1lhams Home Center 1n N1les Parr­time work needed 1n sales and stock For 1nfo. call Deb K1efer at 683·2700  STOP THE INSANiTY 8t·LATERALLY Vote vr:.s on the 8•-Lateral J:reeze March SC2: YOUR TOGA IS IN THE BATHROOM (St<OWER).  
1532  To Jane Panzeca.  FRAN Tt!E DANCING MAN: DID YOU  
FOUND.Cas1o sc1ent1f1C calculator. fx-58. 1n engmeenng auditor1um. Call Kevm at 3201 late n1ght H1 Jayne, hi Man. tn1s IS  LOVELy LASS needs nde to In· d1anapohs for spnng break Can leave Wed . March 9 If you re go1ng my way. call Lisa at 3882.  4 bdrm furn1shed house. near campus On Notre Dame Ave Good condttlon 9 mo lease $335 per mo Call 684-0933 (local call).  BOSTON BUS SIGNUPS Monday 7. Lafortune $110 rounU I rip tncl.refresh  To !hiS new A. A I WISh all the SUG_Cess 1n the world. Love, Preppy  DANCl WITH A GIRL FRIDAY NIGHT? ARE YOU SiJR!'-? SC2: IS SH!; 24-3/;-l4? OR IS SHE A  
tree!  All nqht. That s 11. I m t~red of bonrg Per­ SMC CHICK? YOU LOSE EITHER  
HELP' Have hotel room 1n Ft Lauderdale  FUHNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT  sonals pages Are you? We could bnng  'NAY'  
LOST· N D Billfold with my I.D. cards. hcense and detex 1n 1t. On Friday between N1ewland and the Ma1n C~rcle. If found, please call Jamce at 1336. Found: Basketball at Stepan Fnday, 21'1 8. Ca~ Jerry 3321 to clatm  . need roommates to spl1t room costs. Call Kevtn or Ttm at 3537 NEED RIDE TO ROCHESTER. NY FOR SPRING BREAK CAN LEAVE ON MARCH 10 OR MARCH 11 PLEASE CALL MIKE 8265  SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277­3604 FURNISHED TWO ROOMS. PRIVATE ENTRANCE. MALE PREF ALL UTILITIES PAID 277-3604 FOR RENT NOW -2 or 3 Bedroom. Full  back moose tokes, but they re pretty moostenous Elkhart JOkes were fun, but you can only take so much of Hoos1er humoi Oo you have a good tdea tor fertile mrnds'' Jf so. send them 1n to. Moose Control P.O. Box a Notre Dame IN, 46556  Coach B1ll Beck and the Grace Hall Bas· ketball T earn Congratulations on wtnntng the champ1onsh1p! You re the best' Love. Your 1 tan L YONITES Plant tomorrows seeds  MeA;· ben thOugh th1s 1S Monday, have a n1c0 11\y. ana a b~tter wf?'ek Wasn·t tf a goon Y'!lf•okand" ~IJv€1. P Mssr f:!-iA.NK 'Jt,,..,_r,·e You re good/ I 'lona~.!h f11dn t 1:·ttrtk y<ou had tt tn you/ Thurr. '"J"lt wf'ls ar< lno:,rt~dlble and a  
1 need lide (one-way) to Saratoga  Bath, Yard. Partly fum,shed $185 & $70  or to The Observer vta campus mat!  today Vote ANNIE AND FITZ  delJQ~IIh·· s~rpm.~' Mv re.>pect tor you  
FOUND G~rl"s watch outside North  Spnngs. N Y 10r VICimtyl Can leav&  Util1t1es. Deposit $200 Off Portage. 289·  And remember. only you can prevent Per­ nas mote tt'1an dc.ubtP-d/ We must trv that  
D1mng Hall on the 16th. Call2905  noon. Mar 11. Cdll Pat 1884  1687  sonals burnout  C'etat!l'un qUI pa.rle francaiS  agatn soor./-Your o:;weet ·otmp  


-----------~-----· 

·rhe Observer Monday, February 28, 1983 page 13 
Champions decided 
Bengal Bouts finish with a flurry 
By ED KONRADY 
!>ports Writer 
The NBC network camera~ didn't make it this year. but it was strictly the networks loss, as one ofthe most exciting finishes in the 53 years of the Bengal Bouts entertained an en­thusiastic crowd at the ACC last night. 
Only three of the nine title tights were decided hy unanimous deci­sion. with three tight~ stopped hy the referee, two decided in a split decision. and the climax ofthe night. the super-heavyweight bout. was decided by knockout. 
The atternoon started with the l _>,'i pound finals. Junior :viike Dan­durand winning in a split decision against sophomore Don :vicLaurin in an excitmg opener. 
McLaurin used his quickness well against his southpaw opponent, but before he could take advantage of Dandurand's low right hand, the sophomore tired and was out· 
Sportsboard 
Saturday's Results 

Notre Dame women 52, DePaul women 50 
Notre Dame women (52) 
M FG-A FT-A R -F P 

Matvey 8 3-7 0·0 3 2 6 
Ka1ser 33 5-10 0-0 6 4 10 
Schueth 28 4-13 0-1 13 3 8 
Hensley 32 1-2 0-5 7 1 2 
Dougherty 30 2-6 2-2 1 2 6 
Keys 15 2-6 2·2 2 4 6 
Brown 6 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 
Basford 15 2·2 1·1 3 1 5 
Bates 33 4· 7 1-1 3 1 9 
200 23-53 6-12 38 18 52 

FG Pet 434. FT Pet · 500. Team rebounds -4 Turnovers · 19 Ass1sts · 20 (Dougherty, Hensley 5) Techmcals · Notre Dame team (Failure to subm1t lineups 10 
m1nutes before game) DePaul women (50) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Douglas 35 2-13 3-t6 14 4 7 O'Bnen 31 1·6 4-4 5 2 6 Atsaves 40 4-17 2·3 2 4 10 Banathy 23 5-9 1-2 5 5 1 1 Parnsh 11 1·2 0·0 1 1 2 Mitchell 36 4· 1 0 3-4 9 2 11 F1tzpatnck 7 0·1 1·2 0 1 1 Anthony 4 0·2 0-0 1 0 0 Sloan 13 1-2 0-0 2 2 2 
200 18-62 14-21 40 21 50 

FG Pet 290 FT Pet · 667 Team 
rebounds · 5 Turnovers -18 Ass1sts · 13 
(Douglas, Mltchell4) Techn1cals ·None 
Halftime· Notre Dame 32. DePaul 19 Offi­Cials· Adams. May. A­
Friday's Results 

Notre Dame women 74, Marquette women 
50 
Notre Dame women (74) 

M FG-A FT-A R F p Matvey 8 4·10 2·2 8 1 10 Ka1ser 33 4-7 0·0 2 2 8 Schueth 28 2-7 3·5 9 2 7 Hensley 32 0-0 2-2 5 3 2 Dougherty 30 3-9 0·1 2 3 6 Keys 15 6·14 3·3 7 2 15 Brown 6 2-2 2·2 1 1 6 Basford 15 3-6 2-5 5 4 8 Bates 33 6-9 0·0 7 1 12 
200 30-64 14-20 46 19 74 

FG Pet 469 FT Pet 700 Team 
rebounds · 5 Turnovers · 25 Ass1sts · 18 
(Dougherty, Brown 5) Techn1cals ·None 
Marquette women (50) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p 

Stampley 35 1·6 1·2 0 3 
Klaus 31 0-5 0·0 0 0 
K1nzer 40 5-13 4-5 1 1 14 
S1evers 23 7·16 4-4 8 1 18 
Supl1ck1 11 2·5 1·2 6 4 5 
N1eman 36 0-7 0·1 4 4 0 
Bunsh 7 5-14 0-0 7 5 10 
Deenng 4 0-0 0·0 0 0 

Good Mon. Thurs onlv 
STU DENT DISCOUNT w/Student LD. Offer not valid with any 

other Aurelio's special discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
(\NR,Hll llfll\lk'
277-4950

mlUI'll"' \\\JI .. III 
punched. 

In the second fight, freshman Ed· 
mond Kelly won the 140 pound title 
using an effective right lead against 
sophomore Pat Serge. The smaller 
Kelly fought well in the clinches and 
scored with many head shots over 
the dropped hands ofSerge. 
Both men stayed on the offensive 
during the fight, with Kelly's crouch­
ing style giving a small target to 
Serge. The tight was close, with a 
split decision going to Kelly. 
Fighting in an unorthadox style, 
senior Paul Derba used an ultra­
aggressive style and a variety of 
hooks to score an unanimous deci­. sion ·against junior Joe Beatty. 
Derba's hooks scored consistantly 
throughout the fight, with Derha al­
ways moving forward. 
The Aaron Pryor-style of the 
senior confused Beatty, as the junior 
could not get a solid punch near the 
swinging buzzsaw. 
In one of the cleanest fought 
fights, senior Steve Sierawski scored 
a technical knockout at I :59 of the 
second round against classmate 
Dave Odland. Sierawski moved very 
well side to side and pummeled Od· 
land with jabs. 
In the second round, Sierawski 
landed a hard right to the head that 
sent Odland staggering, earning him 
a standing eight count. Odland came 
back with two good lefts, but the 
150 pound champ staggered him 
with another vicious right, ending 
the fight. 

The brawl of the day came in the 
155 pound title fight with senior 
Greg Lezynski winning an unani­
mous decision against classmate 
Dave Roberts. Combinations flew 
back and forth between the fighters 
with solid shots being shook off by 
both fighters. 
In the later rounds, Lezynski 
dominated Roberts with his supe­
rior strength, Roberts receiving two 
standing eight counts, the latter 
courtesy ofa hard right by Lezynski. 
One of the most entertaining 
fights was in the I65 pound class, as 

1983 Senior Formal 
..S'he uUaut 2vettt:'~ 
APRIL 9,1983 at the Palmer House in Chicago (:.!Jou don't need to be U1 Q()l)e to go. t::o inUite o b'~iend and t::pQit the r,OI:)t lfJil. the JlA.oin 8uenl ol19Sg 
Budgpt SPECIAL 
rentacar SPRING BREAK DISCOUNT 
Bring this ad in for minimum rental SlO.OO off our 9 da.YS, catS oni.Y, special student good from 3/10 rates!! thru 3/21/83. 
CALL EARLY TO RESERVE YOUR CAR!! PRONE 287-2333 
powerful Angelo Perino stopped Pat Cusack at I:28 ofthe first round. The fight started with Cusack throwing a flurry of hooks against the muscular Perino. The champ then threw a solid left that shook Cusack and then a crushing right which broke the nose of the freshman and ended the fight. 
In the third unanimous decision of the session. sophomore Dave Packo defeated senior Doug Maihafer after suffering a shoulder injury during the tight. Packo, won dominated the fight. continued on after the incident and finished up Maihafer with jab-induced bloody nose. 
The heavyweight division cham­pionship was the quickest tight of the night, as junior Mike Cray TKO'd graduate student john Iglar at :4S of the tlrst round. Cray knocked down Iglar with a solid right, earning him a standing eight count. A few seconds later,· Cray landed another crunch­ing right which stunned Iglar and ended the fight. 
In the superheavweights, 
graduate student Andy Panelli 
knocked out junior Larry Andreini at 
I: I3 of the second round. PaneIIi continually back<:d up the junior, landing hard rights to the head and sharp lefts to the body. Andreini answered with some strong com­binations, but could not avoid Panel­li's charging, aggressive style, with PaneIIi finishing the fight with a hard right to the head. 
Of the five returning champions that started the tournament, only Perino ( I65) retained his title. Serge 
( 
140) lost in the finals, McLaurin 

( 
135) lost in the finals, Andreini (Heavyweight) moved up a class and lost in the finals, and Mark LeBlanc (Superheavyweight) lost in the semifinals. 


The money made by the S3rd an­nual Bengal Bouts will be sent to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. This represents the efforts of many young men who have participated in this year's Notre Dame boxing club. 

.._­
Good inside play and the astute Phelps helped the Irish tie DePaulyesterday 53·53, when a lastsecondshot by Kenny Patterson won the gamefor DePaul. See Will Hare's story on this heartbreaking loss on page 16. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 

CORBY'S 
ffionda.Y Night Special 

Lndies Night .·~ 8-3 ~~~ 


"ffiix Drink Special" 
(Bu.Y 1Drink-Get 2nd 1 For25c) 
**** Hot C,heese Nachos SOc***** Go ND Basketballers, Beat Seton Hall 
i! 

i 
1 



continuedfrompage 16 
half, but Bates' layup at the 10:41 mark gave Notre Dame its largest lead, 42-28, and it seemed to be win­ning going away. 
Then, DePaul went to work on the Irish lead, pressuring on defense and running on offense to chip away at
.. 
the disadvantage. "They went to a full court man to man defense, and played right in our shorts,:· said DiStanislao. "We played right into their hands and allowed them to dictate the tempo, so they ran their offense in high gear." 
"We were in something like death gear," said Knapp. 
A five point Blue Demon spurt put them within 10, but DePaul's big move was keyed by Janine Douglas. fhe forward's six points, assist and pair of steals helped bring the Demons to within one point, 48-47, with three minutes to go. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame's offense had stalled out, producing only three baskets in eight minutes. 
"We were just passing it around, and it seemed that nobody wanted to shoot the ball," said Kaiser, who led Notre Dame in scoring with 10 points. "They went all-out, and the momentum really turned on us." 
Baskets by center Mary Beth Schueth and Kaiser were enough to hold offthe Demons' last-minute ral­ly. 
"In the last three minutes, you could see that Schoothie, Carrie and Ruth werent't going to let this game get away," said DiStanislao. "We stopped playing hot-potato and our inside people got down to business." 
"Getting down to business" allowed Notre Dame's tournament campaign to remain in business. All that remains is for the Irish women to take care of a little unfinished business -like beating Dayton and Big Ten co-leader Indiana next week -to complete their task. 
IRISH ITEMS -Lynn Ebben and Jenny Klauke did not dress for either game of this weekend's games ... 
Both should begin practicing this week. While they should dress for next week's games, a decision on their playing status will be made later this week ... This weekend's 
wins were, for Notre Dame, its first at either facility ... In addition, the DePaul win was the Irish women's first after two defeats to the Lady Demons. 
Editor's Note: The women's bas­ketball team defeated MarquetJe Uniuersi~V 74-50. A full report by Mike Riccardi will appear in tomorrow's paper. 

~~--~.-~~-.--------.-.---..----.-­
~---------=-~~~~=~-~~~~~l 
--------------·-­
The Observer Monday, February 28, 1983-page 14 
• • • Women 
Sophomore Brent Chapman said goodbye in a grand fashion in the last Notre Dame home var­si~v hockey series with a hut Irick, his second of the year. Notre Dame swept the series against 
nes 
Fast. .. Free Delivery Call us. 277-2151 
1835 S. Bend Ave. 
Plaza 23 Center 
Open for lunch 11 am-1am Sun.-Thurs. 11am-2am Fri. & Sat. 
Coke/16 oz. cups 
For a 16" 1-item pizza I plus 4 cups of Coke! I Coupon value $2.25. 
(Tax not included.) ; Good Mondays only. 
1

Expires in 2 weeks. I 
I

Fast, Free Delivery 
I

1835 S. Bend Ave. 
I

Plaza 23 Center 
I

Phone: 277·2151 
I 

Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 1 Umited delivery area. 
1 

29832/26so 
I 

seniors -for all that we've gone 
through these past few weeks." 
After the time-out, Smith sent a 
core of seniors on the ice to finish 
the game off. Higgins, Doman, Bel­
lomy, Bjork and Dave Lucia joined 
McNamara to complete the all 
senior line-up who skated the last 
minute of Irish hockey. 

As those seconds ticked off the clock, the crowd kept a constant cheer going. When the final buzzer sounded signalling the end of Irish hockey, the majority of the fans remained stading. They waited for something to tell them that it was really over. 
Higgins and Doman, the two cap­tains, gave the signal as they led their teammates around the rink for one last spin. The noise from the crowd was met by high sticks and waves from the players. 
Smith was sincerely proud of the way his team played. 
"There really wasn't anyone who played poorly," he said. "It was a really fantastic night all around." 
On Friday, the team had clinched their spot in the playoffs, hut had not 
_Ihe ObserYet: is 
currently accepting 
applications for the 
following positions: 
SPORTS EDITOR PHOTO EDITOR FEATURES EDITOR ST. MARY'S EXEC EDITOR CONTROLLER ADVERTISING MANAGER CIRCULATION MANAGER ACCTS r&ECEIVABLE CLERK 
pplications are due at 
Spm Monday February 28, 1983 For more information ca/1239·5303 
illinois-Chicago, and you can get all the details 
in jane Healey's story• on page I6. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
• • • Hockey 
convinced anyone of their winning potentiaL McNamara gained 23 saves in the uneventful victory. 
"I didn't think the game was a work of art," Smith said. ''It was poorly played by both clubs. Every­thing for us was slow." 
Saturday was a completely dif­ferent story. Notre Dame pelted Blakey with 44 shots on goal never letting up the pressure. 
"It's so much better to win and look good," Smith said. "It's also great to win and work your own way into the playoffs instead ofwaiting to see how the other teams do." 
Smith did not want to dwell on the finality of Saturday's game, but to look ahead to the playoffs. Notre Dame faces Bowling Green in the two-game first round series in Ohio next weekend. 
Right now the Irish are living on a sudden death emotional high that they hope will keep carrying them until the CCHA finals and possibly the NCAA finis later on this month. 
It would only be a fitting ending if the Irish could capture that NCAA crown. 

continuedfrom page /6 
loose puck in front ofBlakey, expert­
ly spun around, and scored on the 
senior goalie. 
The last goal of the year was a fit­ting one. Bjork slipped a pass to Chapman on the open side. Chap­man tipped the puck in for his second hat trick of the season, and his twenty-seventh goal. Higgins and Bjork were each creditted with as­sists. 
The goal gave Bjork a team high 60 points on the year. Chapman is right behind him with S 1 points, and Higgins is third with 3 7 points. The three are responsible for 47 of the last 70 goals. 
With a minute left to play, Notre Dame called a time-out. Public 
Throbbing head? 
Quaking body? Has 
Monday dealt another 
crushing blow? Revive 
yourself with a well­
rounded meal from 
Domino's Pizza. We'll 
help smooth the wrinkles 
out of your day. 
Domino's Pizza 
® Delivers.'" 
Ask about our party discounts. 
© 1983 Oom1no·s P1zza, Inc. . 


r···················~-.,
0 nly 
•
$7 49 
II. 
L ••••••••••••••••••••• .J 
address anouncer Mike Collins sparked an unbelievable emotional outburst by saying,"lt's time for you (the fans) to let the team know how you feel." With that, the 3,000 plus people began to clap, scream, and shout to show their support for the team and Smith. 
The team responded by exchang­ing hugs and kind words. The Flames joined the tribute by holding their sticks high in the air saluting Notre Dame in its final hour. There were few smiles, but many tears shed during that long minute break. 
"I couldn't even swallow because ofthe lump in my throat," Bjork said. "I was just thinking how un­believable it was. It was a tribute to all of the players -freshmen to 

w UP es 
IheObrerver======================================== 
~~4()l~~==========================M=o=n=d=ay='=Fe=b=r=u=ary==2=8='=19=8=3===p=a=g=e=1==5 


Bloom Coun 

w;! YOUR AL.~I? EGO l YOU KNOW' YOU1R'i. 
Nor Rf.AU.Y lH£ 

f£XI5T, WTI5T MACHO WNKH£ACI . I'M lHAT YOU ~... NOT ! 

Fate 

THf DOCTO¥S WILL S£E 1/01,1. NCW. 

The Daily Crossword 
NO.' fJef.P VOWN YOU'R£ 
ACT1/AU-Y 'XN51T7V~ I 
COMPA5510NAW ANCI MUCH l£55 CONC£RN£V 
ABOlffYOUR MAQJO IMA0€... CAN'T 

r woLI.U>NT Sf roo ntAN[­f'IAL TOO QLI.ItK. WORD 
HAS IT THAT TliEY'Rf A COUPLE' OF REAL HORSt· OotiOR<;. 
ACROSS 26 Impart 1 Crux 29 Expressed 5 Flute's strongly 
cousin 33 Declivity 
9 Torrent 37 Erin of 14 Pot input old 15 Hang 39 Actor 

Photius 

HOP lAP HEKf 'f0UN4 F£lll\ AND Lf'T US HAV( A LOOI<. H 
50 Samovars 21 Heraldic 52 Scamp border 57 Diadem 25 Holiday 60 Ancestry times 63 Tapestry 27 Approach 64 Hebrew 28 Shore of 
letter renown 


•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Chemically Induced Magnetic Polarization," Prof. Gerhard L Closs, Lniversity ofChicago, l 23 NSH 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting, of the Student Senate, 2C Lafortune •-p.m. -Videotape Presentation, "Options for the Arms Race." Everett \1endelsohn. HarvMd l'ni· versity, Center for Social Concerns, ~.ponsored by Campus Freeze Coalition •-p.m. -Bible Study, Baptist :-.1 .dent t:nion. Bulla Shed 

• 
.., p.m. -Lecture, ·'Shales· Their Sedimentology and Geology," Dr. Wayne A. Pryor. University of Cincinnati, 101 Earth Science Building 

•7 
p.m. -BCAF Presents, Warren Bowles, Library Auditorium 

• 
.., p.m. -·Monday Night Film Series, "Lancelot of the Lake," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "The Fraulein ofBarnhelm," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 


T.V. Tonight 
6:30p.m. 
7 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
9 p.m. 

10:30p.m. 11p.m. 
11:30p.m. 12p.m. 
12:30 p.m. 
.... .The Far Side 
16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS New~ 
28 ABC's World News Tonight 
34 Over Easy 
16 M·A·S-H 
22 Laverne and Shirley 
28 joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
16  All in the Family  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
16  Movie:  "The Night  the  Bridge  Fell  
Down"  
22  M-A·S-H  
28  That's Incredible  
34  Front Line  
28  ABC  Monday  Night  Movie:  
"American Gigolo"  
34  Great Performances  
22  Alice  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
16  Tonight Show  

22 Trapper john and Columbo 
28 ABC News Nightline 
28 The Last Word 
16 Late Night With David Letterman 
SQorts 
Monday, February 28, 1983 -page 16 

Proud goodbye 
leers sweep UIC in final series 
ByJANE HEALEY puck passed goalie Rich Blakey who A ten minute delay preceeded the Sports Writer was involved in a pile-up in front of second period as the glas~ ahove the the nets. hoards had to he replaced. But the 
It began with a two minute stand­!'our minutes later. Brent Chap­hrcak could not squelch the Irish ing ovation for coach Charles man put in a rebound off a John Hig­spirit. "Lefty" Smith and ended with a gins' shot to make it 2-0. Higgins and At 2:47 Chapman was cleanly resounding. persistt·nt cheer of"We fellow senior Kirt Bjork got the as­hreaking awav on Blakey. He had the arc ND" from the 5,mr-:-fans who sists. Flame's goalie all to himself Chap­came to witness the final perfor­Riding the high spirit of the mo­man neatly manuevered in with con­mance of the Notre Dame hockey ment, Bjork took a pass from trol ofthe puck. At the last "minute he team at a varsity Division I status. Chapman and turned on the speed. sneaked it in for his second goal of 
The t1nalc involved several emo­!'rom I<; feet out he slappnl a sleek the night. tional outbursts from the devoted shot past Blakey. Senior \'lark Doman got his name crowd and signs expressing the With the two top lrbh lines doing on the scoring sheet with some help truth of the matter: "The l'uck Stops all the scoring. the third line -John from Bellomy. On a -~-on-I situation. I!ere." Deasey, Steve Bianchi. and John Bellomv centered_ to .Doman who 
The Irish rose to the eventful oc­Dt·\'oe_: had to gt·t into the act. scored his tenth goal of the season. casion as they thrashed Illinois­\'\'ith hl'lp from ddt:n,eman Steve The score was 6-1 going into the ( :hie ago H-1. Counting l'ridav night's Ely, who tired a shot from the point. final period of lwckev for :'llotre ';-I victory. Notre Dame fini,hcd DeYoe ddlected tht· puck into the Dame. The lirst ten minutes were an regular season play with a 15-1--2 goal at I I :';5. exhihition of relaxed. loose hockev. record. They ended up in cigth The onlv Flame goal came three But. at I I: 1-t. Bdlonw got down to place, earning a ~pot in the playoffs minutes later on the power play. Jot· husincss. I k gained control of a against Bowling (,rcen next l'atzin connected on a shot in tight 
See HOCKEY, page 14weekend. on Boh \k:'llamara. 

It was a matter of pride for Notre Dame to end the hockey program on a winning note in front of the many 
Irish overcome late 
parents and familv mebers who par­ticipated in this weekend's hockey parents weekend. 
"It was sad, but it felt really great 
rally by Blue Demons 
too," said senior Rex Bellomy. "I 
By MIKE RICCARDI staff was delinquent in handing in
think the whole spirit was higher 
Sports Writer ND's starting lineup.
tonight than ever before this 
"We're supposed to have theseason." 
ROSEMONT, Ill. -The Notre lineups in the book at I 0 minutes
That spirit sparked an aggressive 
Dame women's basketball team was before game time," explained Assis­
effort that put the Irish into a 4-1 
able to breath a sigh of relief that its tant Coach Patrick Knapp.
lead after one period. 
NCAA Tournament hopes were in­"However, the book wasn't on the
Bellomy scored the first goal 3:42 
tact after surviving a frantic second (scorer's) table, either. But, we're
into the game. After several minutes 
half rally hy DePaul University to on DePaul's turf an that's the way it
oftenascious pressure in the Illinois­
win, 52-50, in the second game of a goes."
Chicago zone, Bellomy tipped the 
men's/women's douhleheader at Notre Dame's aggressive offensive The Horizon Saturday afternoon. rebounding allowed the Irish to 
Though Notre Dame had built a overcome its own poor t1rst half I4-point lead with just over 10 shooting (13-of-35), and the spot­minutes remaining in the game, ting of one point, to move out to a DePaul had an opportunity to win 32-I9 halftime lead.
DePaul wins on last second shot 
the game in the last I 0 seconds. As in the preceding night's Mar­ByWILLHARE ''I'd give that shot anytime at the In the second half, DePaul saw a "They got to our heads," said quette game, it was the bench that Sports Writer buzzer," said Irish coach Digger seven point lead dwindle to three at Coach Mary DiStanislao. "You've got led the way for the Irish. as Trena 
Phelps. "You have to credit the 31-28 following a couple ofKen Bar­to give DePaul credit for the come­Keys, Denise Basford and Carrie ROSEMONT, Ill. -Metrosports 1 quickness of Patterson. Let's face it, low baskets. But the homestanding back. They used all their weapons." Bates combined for I8 points. Bas­announcer Harry Kalas would have the kid makes a great shot." Demons maintained control of the Pressure defense and a running of­ford's three-point play and driving 
said, "You're watching great inde­While Patterson claimed CBS game behind the penetration of fense allowed the Demons to layup in the final minute of the half pendent basketball." honors, Paxson was the recipient of guard Tony "TJ" jackson and center control the tempo and get back into allowed NO to go in ahead by I3 and With all due respect to Mr. Kalas, the Wendell Smith Award as Brett Burkholder. the game. cont1dent of its ability to put DePaul 
yesterday's DePaul-Notre Dame selected by the writers and broad­Burkholder; the 6-10 captain, Barb Atsaves sailed the Demons' away. 
clash was not great -the teams casters. Paxson finishec with I9 scored on a wild left-handed hook last ofthree attempts to tie the game Also in the first half, sophomore combined for just 20 of 43 from the points on 9-of-18 shooting. midway through the half which over the hoop and the contest ended guard Laura Dougherty led center foul line -but oh. was it exciting. The loss dropped Notre Dame to prompted Phelps to jokingly make a as sophomore center Ruth Kaiser Bates for an inside bucket to break Perhaps too exciting for the Irish. I6-9 on the campaign and severely sign-of-the-cross gesture towards pulled down the ball and fought to the school record for single-season 
In the end, DePaul's Kenny Patter­damaged their hopes for a NCAA Meyer. keep the handle. assists. The feed to Bates was Doug­son hit a soft 17-foot jumper as the tournament bid. The Irish would Jackson led DePaul with 14 points The confusing t1nish was charac­herty's 90th of the year. breaking buzzer sounded to thwart a furious have established absolute while Varner scored 12 points and teristic ofa very strange hallgame. Ruth Kaiser's year-old mark of89. Notre Dame comeback effort and supremacy among midwestern in­grahbed seven rebounds tor the The match began oddly enough. The Irish, however, were unable 
give the Blue Demons a 55-53 tri­dependeflts with wins over DePaul Irish. Notre Dame's Tim Kempton with Atsaves sinking a technical foul, to shake DePaul in the early second 
umph. and Dayton (March 7). 
Trailing by nine points with t:50 DePaul's chances for a tourna­to go and 51-43 with I:18 left. the ment bid "went up ahout two per­Irish capitalized on DePaul tur­cent" according to \'~eyer. hut the novers and missed foul shots to earn Demons now hold a comparahle their way back into the game. John record oft 5-9. They still have games Paxson's long-range fadeaway jum­with South Carolina. Marquette, and per tied the score at 53 with seven Dayton remaining on the schedule. seco t nds remaining. The Irish close the season with 
Following a DePaul timeout. the home games against Seton Hall 
Demons set up thcir final play. (:VIarch 5), Dayton (\'larch "! ), and 
"The play was set up for Randolph Northern Iowa.( March I 0) and must (Demon forward Bernard). but Bill win all three to realistically still have Varner denied Randolph the ball." a shot at the NCAA's. Then, as Digger said DePaul coach Ray Meyer. "but Phelps said, "We have to wait and the game should never had been see what the selection committee close." does. 
Patterson. who missed two one­"Whatever the decision. we'll ac­and-one free throw opportunities cept it." and the back end of another in the The Irish were dcliheratc in the final two minutes, broke free from first half and controlled the tempo Irish guard Dan Duff and pulled up against the much quicker Demons. for the game-winning jumper. DePaul played perhaps its best halt~ 
"The play was for me to get the court offense of the season and took ball and either penetrate or dish it advantage of 36.8 percent shooting off to Randolph," said Patterson. hy Notre Dame in the opening half "~hen I broke free, I could have Trailing by four points, the Irish taken it all the way in but I saw there went into the delay game for the was 3 seconds left, so I pulled up." final two and one-half minutes ofthe 
Patterson, winner of the Most first half. But Duft· was called for a Valuable Player Award for CBS-TV, blocking foul as he attempted to ·set was open to take the layup had there a screen for Paxson with three been a second or two more on the seconds to go, and DePaul led at in­clock. termission 19-15. 
as Notre Dame's coaching staff was 
See MEN, page 12 See WOMEN, page 14
husted for a delay of game call. The 
Regional Academic All-Americans named 
Two Notre Dame baskethall standouts, senior 
.John Paxson and sophomore :\1ary Beth Schueth. 
have hecn named to the District Four Academit' All­
American team. 
Chosen in the annual halloting by the College 
Sports lnf(>rmation Director~ of America, both Pax­
son and Schucth now will appear on the hallot for 
the national team t~ he announced in early March. 
Paxson earnt·d his position on the district team hy 
achieving a 5.6-t average over the last two semesters 
as a marketing major in the College of Business Ad­
ministration. lie joins lndiaha's Randy Wittman. 
Marquette's Marc \'larotta. Toledo's Mitch Adamek, 
and Purdue's Steve Reid on the five-man team. 
Schueth boast a :'>.6H average as a pre-professional 
major in the College of Science. Joining her on the 
I0-woman team are Ball State's Karen Bauer and 
Donna Lamping, Purdue's Carol Emanuel. Bradley's Judy Burns, Eastern lllnois' Nancy Lynn Kassebaum, Minnesota's Mary Dressen, Toledo's J<:nnifer lleis­ler, Bowling Green's Chris Tuttle and Northwcs­ten'l's Karen Stack. 
Paxson was a first-team national pick on the 
Academic All-America squad last year. john Paxson 








