Tailgating -page 6 

VOL XVIII, NO. 1~ tht: indt:pt·mlt-nt ~tulknt nc\\ ~paper ~l-r,·ing notre Jamt: and ~aint mary·~ 
I"/ 
SMC dean opposes "panty raid"; Roemer sends letter to rectors 
By MARY ANN POTIER 
StaffReporter 
Traditionally, on the Wednesday before the first Notre Da-ne home football game, the freshman of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's participate in an event called "the panty raid." 
Tradition does not say, however, that neither Saint \1ary's nor ~otre .Dame approves of the event. 
Saint .\tary's students received a letter from the new Dean ofStudent A.ffairs Sister Karol Jackowski saying "It puzzles me that bright, young women continue to choose to engage in what appears to be a mind­less and degrading activity." 
She went on to say, "I want you to know that the College Goes not condone, encourage or support your participation in the panty raid." 
The purpose ofJackowski's letter was to let students decide for them­selves if they want to participate in the panty raid. 
"l di<..n't want to come right out and say we don't want you to do this anymore. although I would like to see this happen,"Jackowski said. 
Jackowski said she wanted stu­dents to raise questions about their participation in the panty raid. and what it says about themselves and :\lotre Dame men. 
Jackowski has the support of the Saint \1ary's administration and Notre Dame's Dean of Students James Roemer. 
Notre Dame's rectors and assis­tant rectors received a copy ofJack­owski's letter along with a letter written by Roemer. The letter from Reomer stated that any Notre Dame student will be fined at least S I 00 if he or she trespasses in or on a Saint \1ary's building any time this year. 
He called the activity "quite juvenile" and said that Notre Dame is "not enthusiastic" about the practice of t~e panty raid. 
There will nut he any change in security procedures or increase in security personel if students wish to partake in the event. 
Jackowski said she would like to see some of the student organiza­tions come up with alternative ac­tivities for the Wednesday hefore the tlrst home foothall game. "Anything that is going to he ef­fecti\·e will come from the stu­dents," she said. 
A panty sale in anticipation of the raid was scheduled for last Thursday and Friday at Saint .\1ary's. The sale was intended to he a fundraiser for \1cCandless Hall hut "Saint \1ary's College doesn't support the panty raid, so we could not sell them," said 
\fcCandless  Hall  Vice  Presidt·nt  
Katie Shirger.  
Normally,  fundraisers  are  ap­ 

see HPC, page 3 

September 12, 1983 
Dear Saint Mary's Women: 
For the past eleven years, I have reluctantly lived through the Wednesday night event prior to the first home football game: the event popularly called "the panty raid"-Year after year, I have asked myself (and many of you), what is the purpose of this particular kind of activity? If the purpose is to have an opportunity to meet the men at Notre Dame, I am certain that there are more appropriate ways. rf the purpose is to do some­thing different to have fun, I am certain the initiative and creativity you have demonstrated in the past could provide entertainment that would be more respectful of your identity as womeb and more consistent with the goals of a Catholic Liberal Arts College for women. It puzzles me that bright, young women continue to choose to engage in what appears to be a mindless and degrading activity. 
I do want you to know that the College does not condone, encourage, or support your participation in the panty raid. As Dean of Student Affairs, I ask you to consider and discuss among yourselves the purpose and necessity for this particular type of •tradition" and what better alternatives are available to enjoy the company of the Notre Dame men. 
1 welcome the opportunity to discuss this issue with any of you. Thank you for your consideration. 
!!'ncerely, 

Sr. Karol Jackowski Dean of Student Affairs 
.. 
SKJ: jlm 

A•sodatedPm.-. 
\'\' ·\SIIlN<.ITO~ Pr..sidcnt Reagan has authorized \Iarine com­manders in Lebanon to call m air strikes from the U.S. tlcet if tht·y deem it necessary to protect Americans or other units in the mul­tinational peacekeeping force, his chiefspokesman said Tuesday. 
White House otlicials also held out the possibility that Navy jets, based just off shore, may support Lehanese army units, stretched thin in their efforts to block Syrian­hacked Druse militiamen and their allies from Beirut. 
In Hcimt, the pdvatcly·owneJ Central News Agency said the Reagan administration had, in tact, pledged air and naval artillery sup­port t(>r the Lebanese:-army. The agency. which has access to Pn:si dent Amin (iemayel's inner circle of aides, said "If any of thl." Lchanese army's current front lines in the 
mountain are penetrated. · the 
Lebanese government t·an count on 
U.S. Navy air and artillery itltt.-rn:n­tion." 
Reagan's decision to allow local '\1arine commanders to call in ~ur strikes, described as a new policy, stemmed from a meeting the prcsi-
Documentary features Holy Cross 
Winged address 
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger addresses annual conven­tion ofAir Force Association in Washington. The Association is a prit'ate group designed to support the AirForce. 
Committee evaluates campus alcohol policy 
By MARY HIGGINS 
News Staff 
The University will be re­evaluating it's prescnt campus al­cohol policies, according to Father 
E. William Beauchamp, chairman of the l'niversity Committee:-on Responsible l'se nf Alcohol. The issue was discussed at the Hall Presi­dent's Council ( HPC) meeting held last night in Howard Hall. 
Beauchamp stated that much con­cern over alcohol abuse was expressed during the two-year PACE report study. The PACE report recommended that a committee he formed which would draw up a public statement of the University alcohol policy and afSQ de~ide if present policies were conducive to the responsible use ofalcohul. 
Some ofthe major questions to he 
answered hy the c-ommittee include: Should alcohol consumption he allowed on campus? If so, what restric-tions should be placed on students? And, why should Notre Dame allow drinking when Indiana's legal age is 2I? Letters will he sent to approxiamately 700 parents asking their opinions on the matter. A policy statement will be drawn up taking into account both the paren­tal response and also the opinions of the students who will he affected hy 
the resolution. 
Beauchamp said he knows that if tighter restrictions are approved, students might "hide behind locked doors when I walk down the hall. but that Notre Dame's responsibility ~a Christian uruversity primarily is tu make the riW1t statement about ai-
Sft RAID, page 4 
By Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
KRON-TV, NBC's San Francisco af­filiate, is on campus today through Friday to film a documentary on the Holy Cross order and its seminarian program. 
The brainstorm of KRON's Paul lldell, a Notre Dame alumnus and former Holy Cross seminarian, the program will focus on the state of the Holy Cposs order in light of the papal "Commission on Religious." 
The commission, which studie~ rclation~hips between religious or­ders and l :.s, bishops, is headed by Archhishop John Quinn of San Fran­cisco. Quinn was appointed hy Pope 
.John PaullllastJune. 
In additi<m to interviews with seminarians and priests at \1oreau Seminary, Udell plans an interview with Father Theodore \1. Heshurgh, president of Notre Dame. to discuss 
vocations  to  the  priesthood  and  
seminary life.  
According  to  Vdell,  his  ex­ 
periences  in  the  minor  seminary  

enahle him to give a "personal view­point" about seminary life and the state of the Holy Cross order. 
Udell said he was "a little melancholy" when he visited Holy Cross Hall la.st ni¢1t because he 
Jent hdJ owc th<· "cekend with key nattonal sc-cunty and torc:ign policy advisers. 
Reagan's <.kcision \\as rt"\"l:"all-d as !louse Dernocratit· kaders workt.·d on kgislation that would declart· thl· \tarines' mission under the domain of the 19':' War Powns Act ­meaning it would he suhjet·t to con­gressional approval. But at tlw same time, th<: legislation now ht."ing drafted would authorizt.· that mis­sion for up to I H months without further congressional debate, tht:rt.·­hy insulatin t g it from the 19H4 politi­cal campaign. 

rea t lized how much the hall had are now married. changed sin<.·e the days when the building housed the Holy Cross or­Terming the filming of tlw 
der's minor seminary. documentary "a great reunion" ti>r 
lidell also plans to include inter­him and his classmates, Udt:ll views with other seminarian believes the interviews will enahll­classmates who now live in Caliti:>r­him to "t1nd out something" about nia. The majority of Udell's 72 fellow the lloly Cross order and its purpose classmates have left the order and in the modern Church. 
Built in 1958, the seontnury houses •m;st of the Ho~y Cross brothers at Votre Da •ne. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 13, 1983-page 2 

versity of Illinois, lirhana-Champaign, has joined the Notre Dame faculty as the frei mann Professor of Physics. n,•w received his bac­helor's degree in physics from Notre Dame m J1)6;-'1 and his Ph. D .• also m physics, from the I niversity of Rodwster tn 196-. He was a National Science Foundation Postdoctoral hI' ,,, !Ostructor and as 
sistant professor at Princeton l n iver~ity wH; l fan•lty in I9""~2. The thrust of Dow·~ re-.e;ll< :• standing and developing nl·w mrcrodt-ctrn''­sp<..Td cornpLHl-rs.-Tbe Ohsen·e1 
AWells Fargo armored caz 
on his partner and hoo.,o.,_ tl<:d th;.:m ur-. g ,. then carted at Jt-a-,t s-mi!lton m '-·'-"11 t<~ an. 
yeo.,terdav. The he1st latt.· \hnd;r~ wa-. th' 1·. in ctsll wa., taken trum a '-cntn Ann<,.,_.,· 'York (:ity nint· rnonth~ age: ~ ,, 
Five students shot in a h 
their high school on the tir-.t Ja\ or d authoriti<.·s said n·o.,tcrday. Tlw ~tmkP''-:. 
joining the Illinois .1111 will be under· ·•;!tt:rial-. tor lugll­
', ardpul f:·d a ~un 
:tr> irll• ·ctior: .lntf qJ tkJ. poli1.. ,· o.,aid · l!K :'.) I Illill: .m 
\\ .Jrl"h< •uo.,e 111 '\tc\-· 
... '\\7arin tht· h:tlt-. :,: 
,,·~·rc juo.,t h~·-.tandcr~ n· h•t \-1ondav when t\\') 
or more vouths tired at member-. ot a ri' ;. ·.•,1g who had tktl down J hallw~ty at \1anucl Dominguez lligh 'od1: · >I. politT said." lt"~ my un derstamling that this was a connnuation ufa (fighting) mcident that happ<..·ncd over the weekend." said Supl."rintt·ndL"llt Ted Kimbrough. the hetd of tht· Compton l"nitkd School District. Kimbrough said two ofthose arrested were -;tudcnt' at till" school. He described all of the victims as good students. Two \\Tr:· dwerkaders and one was on the student counl"il. -AP 
AWestern European aviation boycottcur­
tailed plans yesterday for W'estt:rn tran·l in the Soviet l.'nkm in retaliation t(>r the Soviet downing of a South Korean airliner. There was no indicaton that thousands of foreign visitors were stranded. The l .S. Ernhassy in \toscow said tlw -tOO to 'iOO Americans believed in the Sonet Union werc: advised to make alternative travel arrange­ments. hut there was no indication that anyone was in difficulty. Twenty of the week's round-trip flights between Western Europe and \tos<:ow were cancelkd by a two-month pilots' boycott in retaliation l(>r the Soviet downing of the Kor<..·an jetliner with 26Y people aboard Sept. I. -AP 
Consumer debt swelledhy a rt·cord amount inJuty. 
the government reported yesterday. In its report on consumer deht, 
the h·dt..·ral Reserve Board s.1id Americans took on S4.H4 hillion 
more in installment credit than £lin paid otlin.July-a record gain. 
The report did not specity hm\ much <..kin was newly a<:quired and 
how much wa~ repaid. 
Increases in outstanding t.k')t u~u:tllv arc vil'wed by economists as 
a sign of people's contidenn· itt t!·:\ cumomy. -A.P 
On second thought • • • 
Some thoughts on some recent headlines ... 
The Korean Air Lines incident is scary in more than one respect. It b horrible to think that a government could exhibit such flagrant carelessness for the lives of ci\·i!ians. The Soviets waited nearly a week before they even admitted to shootmg down the 1ctliner. and tlwy still contend that the jet was a spy plane. They still haven't apoiopznl. and I doubt that thev wi!L 
llow...-q:r ;mother aspect [0 this wholl-.srtuatllm scan·~ llll. I lt-.H.·n to cn·ryorw around l.rmpus h<..-r;!t<: tho.s,-.. tdtol H.usstans." l'eoplc ila\':: C• >1np!aincd th<ti t ht· i-.;.n"nlm rn;mlpulate~ its natJon·~ nH·t..lra £·· lt'Oi the :.., >\·ict p•.·· •pl~ · : IHhc H.th~.:an" hchcve eH:J~·thi!,1! tlta! thur gqw-rnmtat tdb tlwm.·· t~ a ~.-~,mmon ,·ornplaint. 
1'·: • wll.•t ;rhnut . .-.• \\.lh"rc d·• \\T get our inh>rnLitiop on "ut·~· .. nmcid!·nt1 iJotl't '' ~· tru:.tnur go\ ~-rnnwnr (in fi11~, .;:-,_ i\.unald ic·.,~;n: ;t:·:-.J tlh ,)<:!cn-..e l :· ,·,;,:·,,n,-r.:' :,,..,, lih~ the ~1)\'IC( pt·• mit· trtl'>l tlleir kader"" Sl'"'';_' "·' . 
1

tru-,r the)!' •H"flliHi n! wlu:n it conH., tu -,u,_ ~ unp~>rLuH inln:-mati!.>n1 I~ tbo..Tt' an,·on·.· 
c+c to ;ru-.r·­
f·:ll exarnpic. ho\\ do \\"t· know tllat Fltgllt oo-wa-. not a sp~ plane' Thl· answer i~ obviot!s -"c trust the in­form.Hil>n that our gon:'"n· ri1cnt gives us. President Reagan said that the jet \vas not a spy plam·, therefore. 


David Dziedzic 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Wednesday 

SiJO,OOO on tht: dlnrt. 
Thne will beT-shirts. tn..T tnps tort. 1;mderdalt:. anJ <.a1' n .: .:-unch cen·al. .\I! ot th1~ '-Viii he donl· by <)u:J.ker . ur-, ·' ·· q'f"l'. in ;•r: attempt t· \ get u'-all tn l>~t Cap·n <:nuh-:1 
But :wrlnps tiw ;n,;,t s1gnrticmt tan of thh dc.tl t· tila• it ,.., till" fir.,t corpnr.tt<..·-sponson:d cunpus ncn: l!tat tl•. ';;ncr-.tt~ ..ts ;:ppPnnl j;·l ta\2t S\lJTH' peopl: ma\" qll<"-,tH>n the f·thr··:-.. t•>r example ofa Cap·n Crunch ·:attP;' cont<..·~~ Th' nnage n! -,tutknts gc>rgmg .,,;; .l 

bre:;ldasi c·~·n:.ti at a Unt\Tf· siry tna~ has JOined the trght ,1gainst WDrld lumgl·r ll<•<.·~n·t set'Ol too kosher. ~o. ()uaker ( )ats agrl·ed to donate S I 000 wortll of food co a charity designated hy the Sophomore Class. Also. the 51 per person entry fee 
will be donated to charity. 
we all accept that fact. So 
. why is it "stupid"" of the Soviet people to believe their leaders? Of course, I'm not in­sinuating that our govern­ment has any rea..'ion to alter the facts. However. it is interesting that some facts of the incident did not come to light until several days after­

It all adds to an expensive trip to the Dome for Quaker Oats. Why would a company be willing to invest so much money on a product that is eaten mainly by children? I don't know. Maybe we should ask the Cap'n. 
wards. For example. it wasn't until after the Sov t iets charged that an American RC-135 reconnaissance aircraft was in the vicinity that we learned this fact. And only recently was the Soviet cockpit transmission retranslated, revealing that the Su-I 5 did indeed fire warning shots. 
Discussion and debate of this issue are far from over. Hut one thing will remain constant. The Soviets will continue to claim self-defense, while the United States shouts "massacre." And the people of each nation will 
continue  to  believe the  version  that they  want  to  
believe.  
•••••  

Cap'n Crunch is coming to campus! The front-page story in Monday's Obsen,er proclaimed that Quaker Oats is bringing the little character to campus from Oct. 17-2I. Re?ortedly, the cereal manufacturer is spendi t ng 
Has Ronald Reagan tal..en a gamble by wearing a hearing aid in public? Perhaps, cspeci<!lly since many Americans think the 72-year-old president is too old for the job. The wearing of a hearing aid is just one more reminder that our president is no spring chicken. 
However, Reagan may be doing a favor for thousands of people with hearing difficulty. Perhaps wearing a hearing aid may now hecome more fashionable for the simple reason that the president wears one. Perhaps more people who were previously afraid to admit their problem will now seek assistance. 
More importantly, however, maybe more attention will be directed toward research on hearing impair­ment. About 16 million Americans suffer some degree ofhearing loss, yet only .1 percent offederal and private funds are directed toward research. 
ln any case, the hearing aid industry certainly isn't compl:lining. 
Chrysler Corp.'s $1 billion tentative agrennent 
with the l nitl'd Auto Workns tillloll \\ • >n overwhelming approval Tuesday from the automakn·~ I ' work<..·rs. l ·A\X' officials said. The 
_The_Obs.er.~er_ 
vote from nt·arly all of Chrysler's .1pproximately _-ll'i l .S. locab was .~:\.222 to 9,H 1-t, a -:oo..~ pt·rLTill marg111 in favor of the pact, which would bring Chrysk-r wagl"s d1NT ttl thost· at the other Big Three <..·armakers. The settlement. pro\·idlt)g for an immediate SI-an-hour 
Co•njlusitirm loditor.................... Troy lllijo! 
EARN WHILE
raise retroactive to Aug. I 'i pltis another $1.·!2 in special cost-of­
Typesetter................................... Carol Gales 
living payments and additional regular cost-of-living adjustments· 
Veu•s Editor......... Jdl"'"Shotlo!un"' Choppin 
over two years. was reached l.abor Day. The accord starts \tonday 
Cop~· Erlitor....................................... l'at ~a in and expires Oct. I 'i. I 9H'i. -AP 
~ports Copv Editor.......... .......Jam: lkalt-y l:'rirtoriflls I tll'tJilt ........ . .... Toon Small 

YOU LEARN
features I a pout .............. .~arah llamilton 4d f)e.~ign ................................... Bill O"Brit:n Photographer. ....................... Paul Citart"!h c;uesr Appearances .. Cap"n Kevin. Editor 
\1ikt·. Annt• now ha~ her own office 
It's Easy. Just come in to our new, modern facility and 
relax in comfy reclining chairs, while you donate 
..,_,there a li~lu attht· t"nu 111 tilt" tunnt-P""
Amnesty International will m~·t·t ltlr th<.· liN time 
LIFE-GIVING PLASMA 
this year tonight at H in tht Center for Social Concerns. Tht· •nl-eting will pro,·idc inl(mnation to hdp ortent riew and o!J members. The group i~ a world-wide human-rights organization that works toward tht..· rekase of "pri~onl·r~ ot con'-l"Jenn·" and kt..·cp' an eye on basic 
!ff If you bring this coupon, you'll receive an additional $4
To whom it may u>nu:rn· 
human rights in t:ach country. The meeting is open to all interested. 
h:t·Ym can't take it an\ more and i' run· 
Come to: 
-The Ohsen•er 

Ollll-! away to Ltke l'on·,t with Sarah. \\ c will ht· gone ;" I on!( a' rnont·y holds out. 
AMERICAN PLASMA CENTER 
515 Lincolnway West, South Bend $4 If you bring this coupon, you'll receive an additional $4
Counselor and authorofHreast Cancer: A Woman's 1/andhook. Deborah Dewar. will speak tonight at.., in the \tcmorial Library Lounge. lkwar i~ on the hoard ofdirectors for Y-\le, breast· cancer support group hascd in the Chicago area. She will discuss the 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. 
physical. emotional and financial aspects of the disease. The lecture 
is sponsored by the :'-/otre Dame Women's Caucus. -Tbe Ohsert•er 
e)(cept dunng exam and vacat1on 
UP TO $,16/WEEK IN CASH 
penods The ObMrver 1s pubII shed 
($7 for first donation and S~ for the second in the same calendar week) 
. ­
by the students of Notre Dame and 
AMERIC~N PLASMA SYSTEMS 
Satnt Marys College. SubscnptiOns 
515 Lincolnway West, South Bend 234·6010
Weather · • . • ­
c · -" ­
may be purchaseq !9r.~2~_per year 
,<'"PPJiN;ta~Wt/~l?m, Wed. & Fri. Sam to 5pm Tues. & Sat. Closed Mon. & Thurs. 
. . 
($15 per semester) by wntlng The 
BRING YOUR 10 ObMrver P 0 Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556
Mostly sunny today, ;md nmr. with a high around ...,o_ 
The Obaerver 1s a member of 

Fair tonight and cool. with lows in the upper -tOs to around SO. 
Increasing clouds tomorrow, with a high around "'0. -.4P 



The Observer 
Senate demanos ••arsher sanctions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senate con­servatives broke with President Reagan yesterday and called for fur­ther sanctions against the Soviet l'ni­on if Moscow remains unrepentant for the destruction of Korean Air Lines Flight 007. 
Among the sanctions under con­sideration are suspension of arms control talks with the Soviets unless they retract a threat to shoot down 
U.S. reconnaisance planes, and a reduction in the number of Soviet diplomatic personnel. 
Senate leaders of both parties had sought a quick. unanimous vote for a resolution condemning the Soviet Union forthe Sept. 1 attacK in which 269 passengers, including 61 Americans, were killed. 
The resolution, backed hy both Majority Leader Howard H. BakerJr. of Tennessee an Minority Leader Robert C. Byrd, Jr., of West Virginia, 
:s scheduled for debate and a vote today. 
The measure urges joint sanctions with other nations against the Soviet Union, but it stops short of recommending retaliatory action. 
Agreement had been reac•1ed with the White House and leaders of the Democratic House on the lan­guage of the resolution which said the "cold-blooded attack ... will rank among one ofthe most infamous and reprehensible acts of aviation his­tory." 
But Republican Sens. Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Steve Symms of Idaho and other conservatives decided those words weren't strong enough. 
Helms and Symms introduced a resolution which would call on Reagan to recall th~ U.S. ambassador to Moscow for urgent consultations, expel all but a handful of Soviet diplomats in the United States, demand the withdrawal ofall Soviet military equipment in the U t nited States. and demand a public apology and reparations for the victims ofthe air attack. 
It would also urge Reagan to "temporarily suspend all arms con­trol negotiations with the Soviets until they withdraw their claimed right to shoot down U.S. military reconnaisance aircraft ..." 
But yesterday, some con­servatives, including Sen. William Armstrong, R-Colo., said the lan­guage urged hy Helms and Symms was too strong, and so discussions continued ahout what the con­servative alternative to the Baker· Byrd resolution should say. 
Among those discussing the conservative version of the resolu­tion were Armstrong, Don Nickles, R-Okla, Paula Hawkins, R-Fla., Chic Hecht, R-Nev., an Mack Mattingly, R­Ga. 
Commission decries science need 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Warning that "America must not become an in­dustrial dinosaur," a government commission Tuesday proposed a crash federal program with a first­year cost of $1. S billion to holster science and math education through 
teacher  training,  model  schools,  
tougher  courses  and  longer  class  
days.  

The commission, established by the governing body of the National 
Walsh Hall group 
plans calendar of 
of domer males 
ByKAREN THOMPSON 
News Staff 
Watch out, calendar men of USC! Here come "The Meh of ND." 
Plans are now in the works for a Notre Dame calendar featuring the photographs of twelve luc.ky Irish­men. 
The calendar, due to come out in November, is being sponsored by Walsh Hall as a fundraiser. 
"The calendar is a fairly new idea," said Karen Kostecky, a member of the Walsh BaH calendar committee. "We began preparations for the calendar last year with the help of Jim McDonnell, director of student activities. We are hoping it goes over well." 
All photos should be turned in to 203 Wlash Hall by Friday, Sept. 16. The twelve models for the cale'ldar will be chosen Saturday. 
The 1983-84 black-and-white photo calendar will cost between S4 and SS, and will be sold in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. 
Sue Schweinbcrg and Laura Berckerle, the commissioners for the project, plan to use a variety of men from different age groups and activities. The models will be photographed at various locations on campus. 
• • .HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 
cohol consumption. 
In other HPC action, Student Body President Brian Callaghan an­nounced the beginning of Project Share, which involves a collection at campus masses for different charities. Look to The Observer every Friday for the charies chosen for the week. 
Science Foundation, said its 17-ship." month study ofthe condition of ll.S. science education found problems The panel's recommendations in­so deep that the federal government cluded establishing 2,000 must take the lead in solving them. "exemplary" or modd schools with 
"Education is primarily a local special science and math programs, 
responsiility." William T. Cokman, co-chairman of the commission and improved training for the 1.6 million former transportation secretary in teachers in those subjects from the the Ford administration, told a news first grade through high school, 
briefing. 
"But we think that in the current more required technical courses tix situation, there is a crying need for a students and longer school days or national role and national le.tder-years. 

~CJCIAL CONCCKN~ FILM ~ERI[S 

Sept. 13-14 7 and 9:00 Engineering Auditorium, FREE 

mtnightn ofOTnlumbun 
NOTRE DAME  COUNCIL,  No.  1477  
Box 73  
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS  Notre  Dome,  Indiana  46556  

We are pleased to extend to you an invitation to join the Knights of Columbus and to participate with us in some of the programs with which we are responding to the needs of our time. 
We are committed to all areas of Church and social involvement: in vocations, human rights, family life, interfaith dialogue, support for law and order, opportunity for the disadvantaged, and many other areas where the practical application of the precepts of our Faith leads us. The Knights of Columbus also offers you social outlets, insurance protection, wholesome athletic and recreational programs, community service, involvement with youth and the feeling of belonging new friendships can provide. 
As the largest organization of Catholic men in the world, the Knights of Columbus play a leading role in ser· vice to our Church, our country and our families. The Knights of Columbus not only has the strength of members but the desire to do an effective job. 
However, the larger and stronger our Order becomes, the bigger the job it can do. We need new men with new ideas and an enthusiasm for the work we have ahead of us. Because we have reason to believe that you are the kind of young man we need, we hope you will join us. 
At the present time, we are conducting a membership drive in honor of Virgil Dechant. We are planning an open house program on Wednesday, September 14, 1983, at 7:00pm. The meeting will be held at the Knights of Columbus building. ·-.•.te are sure you will find the program interesting and informative and hope that you will be able to join us at that time. 
Grand Knight: Joseph I. Anthony Phone: 6709 (office: 239-7018) Address: 215 Carroll Hall 

I 
i 
·I 
I 
I 

Young Christian kids gaze jro•n church windou• in besieged 
Chouf •nountain town of Deir Al-Kaner. The church is their te•n­
porary ho•ne until a cease-fire is declared and it is safe to return 
ho•ne. 

,----------------,
t Lunch at the Centerfor Social Concerns t 
t Wed., Sept. 14, 11:30-1:30 t t Lunch will be cooked by and served by t t Cambodian Refugees-a typical Cambodian t t meal consisting of the following menu: t t Egg Rolls t t BBQ Beef-on-a-stick t t Iced tea or Coffee t t Donation--$3.00 t 
I Also served before thefootball game. : t Saturday, Sept 17, 11:00-1 :00 
t S~pb~ f 
~----------------~ 


The Observer Wednesday, September 13, 1983 -page 4 
McGovern considers presidency 
House passes program 
Associated Press major ht.dget victory and was ac­
I 
l hieved with the help ofconservative I \X'ASIIJ'IIGTO:"ol' House Democrats. Democrats. reasserting budget Rut the make-up of the House was dominance over outnumbered changed substantially in the 19H2
f. 
l 
Republicans. pushed through on elections and the Democratic yesterday S 1.6 billion in additions to leadership has been successful this 

i domestic programs ranging from year at restoring some of the cuts or­low-income energy assistance to dered hy the 19HI hill, known as museum grants. Gramm-Latta, after its authors. 
The key vote, among several "Is there anybody in this country tallies, was 2H.)-124, with only seven who still believes there was any­Democrats siding with the minority thing careful or thoughtful about the Republicans. \1eanwhile, 40 way this body acted on Gramm­Republicans crossed over to support Latta?" asked Rep. William D. Ford, the measure. 0-.\1ich. 
The additions, contemplated in a 

non-binding budget resolution He said a vote for the additions passed earlier this year, would alter would he a signal that "We have the spending course set two years decided that Gramm-Latta went too ago by an omnibus act passed at the far in putting the brakes on these insistence of President Reagan. programs. Nothing we are going to 
That legislation was Reagan's first do this year is more essential." 
. 
Seniors!! 

I I 


••••••••••••••••••clip&save••••••••••••••••t : ilie : 
! I DELI ! I 
1 1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN 1 
i PARTY SUBS i 
I I 
• 3 Meats, 2 Cheeses I & Choice ofToppings I 
.I 
3 feet serves 20-25...$30.00 1 4 feet serves 25-30...$37.50 1 5 feet serves 30-35...$45.00 : 6 feet serves 35-40 ...$50.00 1 
I ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS I I 
I 
I
&SALADS I 
I I 
i I I 255-7797 i I I 
I I I I
1 Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance r 1 Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 I I Jeff Etoll, owner, N D '78 ! 
I I 
!.••••••-••••••••· clip & save-•••••••-•••••..1 
Associated Press The 61 -year-old \1cGovern, who nomination in 1968 after the assas­lost his Senate seat. from South sination of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy. 
\\'ASHINC~TON Former Dakota three years ago. assessed his but lost out to then Vice President Democratic Sen. George S. chances modestly as he declared his Hubert H. Humphrey. \1cGovern launched on yesterday intentions before a college audience Four years later, he mounted a his third longshot quest for the and with his wife, family members longshot liberal campaign that \Vhite House, under a liberal banner and fr•ends looking on: netted him first the party's nomina­
of peaceful coexistence with the "I do not know if I can win this tion, but then an overwheiming Soviet Union, improved relations campaign, but I do know that with landslide defeat in the general elec­with Cuba and an end to U.S. military all my heart and strength I am going tion at the hands of Nixon. involvement in Central America. to try." McGovern carried only Massachu­
"Not one drop of American blood He said he w t as running to artic­setts and the District ofColumbia in would he shed on that soil. And ulate his differences with President the fall election. America would not extract one drop Reagan and because, "I am increas­That time, he campaigned as an of blood from the sons and ingly uncomfortable on the opponent of the Vietnam War and daughters of Central America," sidelines." was successfully ridiculed by Nixon declared \lcGovern, who won his And despite fears expressed by for proposing that the government party's 1972 nomination as an anti­close friends, he said he is not give every American man, woman Vietnam War candidate. He was worried about becorni~ and child S I ,000 a year. swamped in the general election by "Stasseaized," -a reference to fOr­incumbent Richard \1. Nixon. mer .\1inaesota Gov. Harold Stassen, . The others seddng the 1984 
\lcGovern JOtns an already who has run campaigns for the nomination include former Vice crowded Democratic field for the White House more than a half-dozen President Walter F. Mondale, former 1984 nomination, beginning times without success -and just Florida Gov. Reubin Askew and Sens. months behind six others in or­recently announced that he's trying Alan Cranston of California; John ganization and financial backing. He again. Glenn of Ohio; Gary Hart of is running against the advice of many "I made one serious bid for the Colorado and Ernest Hollings of former loyal aides, and his wife, presidential nomination and I won South Carolina. Hart served as Eleanor, has said she has no plans to and I haven't tried since,'' he said. McGovern's campaign manager in campaign for him. He ran briefly for the party's 1972. 
Soviet shakeup strengthens KGB 
Associated Press The Internal Affairs \linistry told deputy minister was Roris V. the Associated Press on Tuesday that Zabotin, a former Central Commit­\10SCOW -Two former KGB of­Vasily Lezhepokov, formerly a tee official who was head of a divi­tlcials have been named deputy inte­deputy chairman of the K(~B secret sion that works to prevent theft of rior ministers as part of Soviet police, and Kirill B. Vostrikov, a for­state property. President Yuri V. Andropov's effort mer KGH named
official, were to hattie corruption and give the 
deputy ministers: The Internal Atfairs \finistry over­
KGB more power in the national A ministry official, who asked not sees the militia (uniformed police), police force. 
to he identified, said a third new traffic police. criminal investigation, fire protection. prisons, lahor camps, militia and political schoob. lkputy ministers may he heads of
~9Jident Union 

particular section:. or gt:neral on-r­sct:rs of rhe ministry's vast scopt: of rt:sponsihlitks.
PRINTING SERVICE 
The otridal wouiJ not say wht·n the ch•mgcs m:curred but did add that one deputy minister li!'ted in 
\\'estern reference books, Lt. C1en. Boris T. ~humilin. 61, lost his post 
New -Replacing Campus Press 
Bring Camera-ready poster art 
sometime early this year. 
to 

• • .Raid 
S.U. Record Store 

continuedfrom page 1 
proved through the Student Ac-· 
tiYitics Oflke and "it (the panty sale) was not approved through this oflke," Student Activities Director \lary Anne O'Donnell said. 

Students have mixed emotions concerning the letter from jack: 
for your posters and table tents 
AL-ANON 

owski and the panty raid. Freshman Dianne Cassidy, ·who is intending to participate in the event. said "it (the letter) is probably something that
Do you have a friend or family member who 
had t<.> be written, hut I don't think 
has a drinking problem? Maybe our AI-Anon 
anyone \viii take it seriously." Soph­omore Rost' Drake said "no\v that I
group is for you! 

look ha{.·k, it (the panty raid) was kind ot dumb, but it was fun." Junior \hke Goethals said the panty raid is a ·'fine tradition that has
WHEN: Every Thursday, 4:00pm 
gone on a long time. It wouldn't hdp 
the social situation any more if they cut it out." 
beginning September 15. 

WHO: for Notre Dame/St. Mary's College 
* We are looking for .,
t a year's worth of ~
students.· 

* menfor a MEN OF -+ ~ N.D. CALENDAR.!
* Ifyou are one of il 
WHERE: Counset'ing-Psychological Services 
! these 12 or know one ! 
Center. Notre Dame Student 

* of these 12, please il Health Center 
t· submit a photo !
* name, campus -tc ~ address, and phone t 
..r, : 
r; 

* number to Room 203 -tc! ·Walsh Hall by Fridavt
CONTACT: Peggy Cronin or Monica McNamara ! September 16, 1983:
at .~-PSG, 239-7336 or 239-5085 

-·~~ 
l**************** 
---· 


Wednesday, September 13, 1983 -page 5 
Is there change at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's ? 
Those of us who have het.:n absent from the Notre Dame and Saint \1ary's campuses while overseas in foreign studtes programs are as­tounded hy some of the changes which have transpired here since our sophomore years. I still cannot believe that the void which lies h<:tween Lafortune and the library was once actually the Old Fieldhouse. \1y daily walks from O'Shag to the A.C.C. are no longer as familiar as they once were with the addition of the new faculty building. The Sair.t '1ary's 
Robert Lloyd Snyder Teen midweek 
Library is still a slightly unaccustommed sight for me. Nickie's and Rafferty's have suddenly become prominent fixtures in lace-night Domer rounds. And I still cannot believe that they have changed parietal times at Saint Mary's. 
What next, a suitable student centre? Kegs on campu:;? Co-ed dorms? (No, Father lies­burgh, just kidding... ) 
Y~t. the more things have changed here, the more they stay the same. A former professor here once remarked off-handedly to me that Notre Dame's administration, faculty, and stu­dent body was the largest standing army of 
"progressive reactionarie'\" ever .1ssemhled 
on the face of the earth· yet beyond the jesting 
lies, a modicum of truth. ·wt:" are still as pre­dictable and reactionary as any studl·nt com­munity in the Cnited States. lf one had stayed abreast of the fashion developments of the past year, that person could have forseen the proliferation of Varnet sunglasses, "add-a­head" gold chain necklaces, torn T-shirts, and sweatshirts from universitks such as Oxf(lrd, Cambridge, Stanford and Harvard on these campuses. \1usical groups that were ··unfashion;.tble" or "too weird" only last year are now predictably blasting out of South Quad dorm windows. 
The South Bend Police even bagged their first Domers ofthe year in a raid last weekend. Ah, it's good to be hack. 
But I list these trivialities in a tone of feigned facetiousness. Actually, while I wish that the student hody here was a bit more im­aginative, I am not lamenting the lack ofexcit­ing events at Notre Dame -such as axe murders or Parisian-style student riots. 
Indeed, there may he a reason for such con­formity at Notre Dame. I have come to helieve that beyond the multiplicity of individual reasons we may hold for being here; beyond tht:" fact that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are 
primarily white, middle-l:lass institutions; and heyond the fact that most of us expe<:t to greatly increase our future e;uning potentials with a university degrt:t:", lies a somewhat in· explicahle yet perhaps time-proven and true common element within the members ot this community. 
I can still not place my t1ngc:r on exactly what it is. However, l find this element in the annual and jovial pilgrimages to N.D. hy·our often-inebriated alumni, and in letter~ I rel:eive from friends long since graduated. I see this common factor in the alumni who give us summer johs because we are from Notre Dame. I sense this elc:ment after being introduced to another student and finding 
that the chance-meeting hrings an exciting and thrilling new person into your life; a per· son with whom you unexpectedly are ahle to share much more than you would initially assume. 
Alumni with whom I am familiar are also frequently astounded hy the changes which have occurred on campus since their last year here; ifwe are surprised by revised parietals ~tt St. \1ary's, imagine their astonishment at a co­ed campus. These alumni seem to have com­plaints like the ones we harhor concerning 
social interaction, South Bend, the drinking age in Indiana, etc. Yet they have always stressed that a person will only henetit from their time here (to the extent that they are willing to expend their etforts to make their time enjoyable). For many of these alumni, their Notre Dame years were the hest years of their lives. 

The more things change, the more they stay the same. We today must also expend our hc:st efforts to make Notre Dame the most enjoyable place that we can for ourselves; no one will do it for us. 
So you can sit hack and complain ahout what a drag this plan· is, and how predi<:tahle everyone is, and how the social lite rots ad nauseam. The funny thing, however. is that the same people who are always crying ahout the inadequa<.:ies of life here are often the people who art: doing the: least about it. 
Everyone knows that Notre Dame and Saint \1ary's can he a millstone around the: neck of your college life. Lots of pcople han· allowed it to he. 
And a lot ofpeople haven't. 
Robert Snyder is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Snyder, a native of Dallas, 
Texas, returns to. his weekly column after a semester in the Notre Dame London Pro­gram. 

There's more to life than Cap'n Crunch and milk 
In the movk "Hiroshima, mon amour", the architect from Hiroshi rna asks his Parisian lover how she felt on the day the bomb was dropped. She responds that her immediate 
Michael L~ Brennan 
And so it goes 

reaction was surprise at both its use and success in ending the war, but that a fear of such destructive capabilities soon followed, which gave way to eventual indifference, culminating in a fear of indifference. 
1 suffer from an acute fear 0f indifference. 
P. O.BoxQ In God's image 
DearEditor: 
I am writing in response to Father Griffin's article "On being thin-skinned." I appreciate his message that we can miss a writer or speaker's true meaning by focusing on one or two words we find offensive. But I must dis­agree with one assumption that he make'\. Father Griffin said that "God will be neutered, because no preacher wants to be labeled sexist." 
I agree with him that this neutering would be a loss. But he assumes that we must see God as male or in no human likeness at all. In the 
Ol. ·Testament there are many symhols used h,r (~od, not only male images. It is our culture and the development of Christianity which define God in strictly male terms. Instead of reducing the number of meaningful symbols we have for God, we s .hould recognize that God is many things to many people. 
We already describe God with many tradi­tionally "feminine" adjectives: caring, tender and watching out for us. By expanding our use of feminine adjectives to the use of feminine images, such as God our Mother, we can het­ter live out our beliefthat all human beings are created in God's image. 
Wary Ellen Sternitzke 
Notre Dame Women's Caucus 

Apathy b a tragic waste of human potential. Luckily, Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s students are far from apathetic -yet what we care about. how we expend our energies, worries me. 
We are fast hecoming the "me" generation, caught-up in the trap of careerism that breeds crass materialism. I see it as a disease that is 
afflicting large portions ofour generation. We have grown-up in an era of diminished ex­pectations for our country; we saw the aban­donment of the Great Society, looked on as our army retreated from an inglorious war, and watched an American president resign in disgrace. Consequently, we are largely cynical and skeptical about the future of mankind, but find solace in our personal triumphs. We suf­fer from a sense of disillusionment and power­lessness in confronting the confused and complex modern world. in which technology now reigns (the dramatic innease in suicides for I H-.H year-olds indicates our increased despair and hopelessness). We feel much more comfortable chipping away at our own 
little niche, which often results in the blind pursuit ofthat career we feel will safeguard us from the terrors ofthe modern world. But the world will not wait. 
As Notre Dame and Saint \1ary's students, we are fortunate enough to he the intel­ligentsia, Plato's "golden" race, which means the future will soon he in our hands. Thus, we have a special responsihility to hear, above and heyond our personal concern for financial security. 

We cannot wait until tomorrow. \Xo'e should remember th~tt young people have heen the most likely to wage hattk against a status quo perceived as unjust, dangerous, or ultimately self-destructive. Lacking serious respon­sibilities(... things like children, not exams) we have the time and energy to challenge the system, to he idealistic, to dream, and to work tilr what we helieve in. 
There is enough wrong with the world that we should have no prohlems finding things outside oursdvt:s to he concerned with, with­out succumbing to t1xed and hmnal hehavior, t1xcd principles, attitudes, and traditions. 
The world needs us now just as much as we need Captain Crunch. 
OFFICIAL SOVIET ENEMY A1RCPAFT SIL1-\0UETTE Cl-\ART 
U.S. NA.W 
1=·14 

SITALTl-\ 
PDNBt..R 
CRUlSF. r.\155112. 





===-:=Ihe ObserYet==Editorial Board Departn.~nt Managers 
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic 
Hox (_j, .Vf•lre /Jame.l\' -i6SS6  f.! 19) .!YJ· S.W3  Managmg Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare  
Tbe Ohserr•er is tht· independent nc:w...papc:r puhlished h,· tht: studenh olthe l;ns­ Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn  Controller . ..........•........... Alex Szilva~  
\l'fsitv of Nota· J>amt· du l..u.: and ..,aint \1an 's CollegL"  It dot·s not necessartl\ retlect  News Editor .. ............... Bob Vonderheide  Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen  
1he polines of till' admin1..,t rat ion ot l"itht·r in,titut ion. The new.., ts rt·port<.·d as at­ News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh  Composition Manager . ........ Suzcwm: i..a Croix  
curatdv and as ohjn:tnTlv as pos,Jhk I nsignnl c:ditonal.., represent tht· optnon of a  Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski  Circulalion Manager . ............. Mark Miotto  
maJority olthl' Ftliwrial Board Commentann. letter'. and the Jn..,Jdt· Column presl'nl  Features Edaor. .......  ·........ Sarah Hamiltou  System Manager  ............... Kevin Williams  
the \it·wsoftheir :.~uthors. <:olurnn ..,palT is .t\allahlt: to all mt·mht·rs olthe communitY.  Photo Editor  ....................  Scon Bower  
and the tree l"Xprt·ssion ofvaningopinion... on carnpu'. through letters. 1s t·ncouragt·d  ...,ports Lditnr  .  _\lichac.:l..,ullivan  

f'ounded Nonmber 3, 1966 



Showcase 
Wednesday, Septernber 13, 1983 -page 6 


tng 
atran 

avo 

H
aving returned from their rout of Purdue, the Irish will be home this weekend to take on the Michigan State Spartans. In prepara­tion for Saturday, the football team has spent the week drilling and practicing and trying to forget that they just walked all over the Boiler­
makers.Just asJerry and the boys are 
priming for the season home 
opener, so can you. What better way 
is there to inaugurate the 198~ 
home season than with a tailgater 
with your friends? 
This sort ofgathering can he amusing, hut it can too soon become stale. More often than not, a student tailgater on Green Field becomes nothing more than a keg of beer and a swarm ofthirsty young Domers. 
This year, organize a tailgater with 
A ritual founded in history  
by Doug Murphy features staff reporter  
It's a typical autumn weekend at llsually, they gathered in some game. That makes for lots and lois of Notre Dame. The campus is over· musty hall to revel and carouse, people vying for the prime spaces on run with alumni whose large num­forgetting the actual adventure. Un­the field early Saturday morning. her~ and t.·xotic tastes in colors and fortunately, the name of the knight Alumni-run tailgaters are eagerlydothes lend a carnival air to the who tirst thought to spread his feast sought after by roving students.SlTnt:. For most studt:nts, usually of mutton and mead out on the tail llsually run by several well-lweled,n.:covering from a Friday night spent end ofthe nearest catapult, is lost to enthusiastic Dorner alumni, theseinitiatmg tht: weekend. thoughts are history. That action precipitated tht' partit.·s feature much very edible andfocused on two things: football and long linc ofpre·:l<.'tivity parties that often gourmet food and munchies,lood. lt:ad up to th<.' present day tailgater. good beer and other drinks. every­It is the pursuit ofhoth these goals The passage of n·nturi<.'s has wit­thing a definite cut ahove the usualthat cause thousands of students to nt.·ssed further refinements in the art hot dog-hamburger farl:'. For mostjoin tht: streams of people heading of tailgating. Not until the golden students. the remotest connectiontoward (;rn·n Field in tht.· early af· years ofthe automobile do we see with the visiting alums is an invita­H:rnoon. The en·ryday \\·orld of the tailgatt.·r coml· into it's own, tion to join the party. If you happenparil'tal'>. papers, mn·tings. and though. The big gas-guzzlt.-rs of our to meet your roommate's,readings is susp<:nded for awhile. parents' day saw the heyday of the girlfriend's. brother's secondThe sun comes out. The campus tntt.· tailgater. For those !()r whom cousins from Kalamazoo from theht:conH:s the domain ofthe ~pirits of the tailgater is tbe en·nt. and not the class of'~2 before the SC game,Rockne. the (;ipper, the Four llor:-.e· ensuing game, meet, or match, those make yourself welcome!men. Thl' tradition of Notre Dame huge cars with all their trt:mendous t(JOthallcomes alivl'. llowever, for span· to lug around food and Private tailgaters are not the sort thousands of people ringing the ht.·verage were the zt:nith of their to crash. Being somewhat hetween stadium hdort.· the game. it is tim<.' to partying. True tailgater fam of today the great-sized affairs ofdorms and party and par· take in that ancknt are hard put to jam all their edibles dubs, and the tidy, well-run parties and honorahk sports ritual: tht.• tail· (and themselves as well ) into tht.• of the alumni, they are the creation gatt:r. modern tin boxes that pas:; t(>r cars. ofa group offriends, who all pitch in '\lo one knows who in vented thl' llere at Notre Dame, given the to organize the party. These are the tailgatn. or how it ctml· to he tht.· pt.·dt.·strian natui'l' of the campus as closesl things to authentic tailgaters popular actiYity that it is today. wdl as the ( rdativdy) short dis· (ifsemantics mean anything) you l.t.·gt:IH.I ha~ it that the am:ient tances between dorms and tht.· may find on campus. In other words, Romans lon:d to party ht:forc a stadium. possession ofa ctr at it revolves around a car with all man· battle. which prohahly is why tht.·y tailgating time is not esst.·ntial. h)r ners offoodstuffs spread out on the had so many victorie~ to cekhrate out on that di:t~tbowl called Green tail. (The hood is acceptable if your afterward. Fit:ld. on any given football Saturday. motor vehicle has no tail.) During till' jousting tournaments one can discover as many different The art of enjoying a good tail­of the Dark Ages, it was a preregui­types of tailgatt:rs as tht:re art:' gater involve:; remembering that thesitt: that tht: knightly partidpents people partaking in them. main ohjecti\'t.' ofevery tailgater isand ~pee· tators would gatlwr. Tailgatt.·rs can ht.· groupt.·d under to get in the mood for the game, withhdort.· tht: sbughtt.T bt.·gan. to drink three rough headings: committt.'l·· all your friends. Thus. the real reasonand eat heartily. Perhaps. during one run. alumni-run. and privatt:. to celebrate during those beautifulof tht.· many sieges of tht.· \1iddk Committel:'·run atfairs arc.: those Saturday aftl·rnoons. is the occasionAges. the tailgater began to dt:velop familiar huge gatherings of people. of the event oecuring after it. So thisinto today's familiar t()rm. huddled around kegs and under tailgating season, enjoy the party,The great kings and lords, probab· multicolored tlags denoting their or· then enjoy the game!ly looking for a din:rsion from such ganizations. There are so many dif· mundane matters as breaching a fl·rt.·nt dubs. dorms, and other nearby castle wall or rt:pressing the organizations on campus that most Doug Murphy is a third year Arts latest serf revolt. gathered to feast ofthem can usually tlnd an excuse to and Letters student. He resides in bd()re commendng such activities. rhrow a tailgater hefore a t(>otball St. Edwards Hall .  

sau:cy:-=-..................--................... 
Sflilfedtr, 
I Pound(IOI) .CIIJ"s 
21ar frankr. 
ge dill p · ·'~ "J llrters
length . tc"'les, c . 
IO -kltse Slri llltnto IO 20slices a.-. 
strtps b 'lJs I ,rertca

IOfi aeon 2 /2 cup cat n cheese 
rankfllrter b tables sup
l<ns . 'Poons Ptckle relish welf-drainea
Slash th 
P. k e frank~;
Jc leon Urters 1 
then fa each frank!i engthwise
sten end . Urter. C! and open 
s WJth tooth . ose and w out. P!ac 
Place th /', Picks rap each . ea strip o for 10 rn~ ranks on tl . . In a bacon s/', 
-Inut Je gn}J 8 . 1c 
rnmutes. es or Until b ll1ches ab 
aeon i . ove g 
s cnsp T ray coaJ 
Open out l' . urn frank s, and griiJ . 'rank l' s everyJ 

gnJJ; loa 'Urter b 
to4
2 o sc them t; Uus and 
verJaJ•pin or 2 to 3 -Place th 
g cheese sr mmutes T ern cut Sid
ICes T, . Urn a e dow
IX catsup a . oast rolJs nd top eac non the franks a d nd relish . another 2 t h rolJ With 
n Pla m a b o 3 rn · 
mixture. CJ ce franks o owJ. Rerno Inutes. . ose bun n buns 1: ve the t 
o chips heated sand serve S op With so::Othpicks fro on gri}J . erve With e ofthe rn the 
·Per,. . cherry t Catsup
l.fSto11 
Ol1J!lt 
---.........;;g~r"~~~~:,:ed~b~ '"' Oes 
'Y Barrol'ls £. and ducar·
IOJtq/~ . 
"'es f<'II98.J 
............................................................. ...................................................
~ 
Showcase Wednesday, September 13, 1983 -page 7 

~r to your 
rts• 
tai gater 
a repeat performace this weekend, 
no drink could be more fitting than 
an Everybody's Irish Cocktail. 
However, if traditional football 
weather sets in, a Hot Brick Toddy 
may serve better. Both recipes are 
included on these pages. Pick up a 
copy of W"r. Boston Deluxe Official Bartender's Guide for more al­
ternatives to the suds. ( W"r. Boston 
Deluxe Official Bartender's Guide, 
New York, Warner Books, 1982.) 
Ifyou can't arrange for a barten­der, and you don't own a grill, don't think a creative tailgater is out of reach. Asimple spread ofcrackers and fresh vegetables accompanied by innovative dips is all you need for a morning and afternoon ofpre­game feasting. 
May the luck ofthe Irish be with you and your tailgater. Happy tit mes! 

flair. Rather than the-run-of-the-mill hotdogs and hamburgers, try a grilled delicacy such as saucy stuffed franks or polish sausage and pepper heros. Recipes for both can he found on these pages. For more tempting barbecue dishes consult32 Better Barbecues by Helen Feingold. Though some ofher recipes may be a bit gourmet for Green Field, others like foil-baked corn, quick and easy kabobs, and barbecued spicy shrimp could turn any tailgater into a culi­nary treat. (32 Better Barbecues, Helen Feingold, New York, Barron's, 1983.) 
One way to avoid a flat tailgater might be to avoid the flat beer. In­stead ofa barrel ofbrew, perhaps a drink to temper the weather. If last 
Saturday's scorching weather makes 
be«o•

de«
d9e\'r or 112 
~1\ d cabbage. 
or re h

1greert d of eac 
0er, 

half hea onnaise . 
P maY ·1llce

I/2 cu ternott J 
0 ons

2 teasP pper
nd pe l"t

salt a Us sp ' 
6 hero ro ' 
t 
f 
, 




________________________________,.. 
Wednesday, September 13, 1983-page 8

Sports Briefs 
Students interested in competitive
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes swimming are urged to attend an organizational meeting tonight in 
will he meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the social area of Howard Hall. 
room 2lH of the Rockne \1emorial Building. Women will meet at 
Everyone is invited to attend. -The Observer. 
4:30p.m. while men will meet at 5:15p.m.-The Obsen'er. 




Classifieds 
REGIONAL & LOCAL REPS WANTED 
The Observer sports depart­ment is looking for Saint \1ary's stu­dents who are sincerely interested in writing ahout Saint \1ary's ath­letics. If you are interested, call \1ike at 239-5313 as soon as pos­sible. 
The Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per day. 

My 'llOm wtll ktll me of I don't get an MSU Need 1, 2 or 3 GA tix tor Mich. St. game Young miss visiting from West VIrginia MISSong your MANNERS? Watch TheTO DISTRIBUTE POSTERS ON COL­gen. adrn. locket. Please save my hie and 
and all home games. Please call Helen, just got her first pair of shoes. Now all Observer.
LEGE CAMPUSES. PART-TIME OR sell rne one. Call Pete at 8317 or 8316. I SMC 5501. she needs to make her life complete is
NOTICES 
MORE WORK. REQUIRES NO SALES. thank and mom thanks you. (student) to
a ticket the-MICHIGANCOMMISSION PLUS PIECE WORK. 

NEED 2 USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6981 STATE game. Call Kirk at 8765.AVERAGE EARNINGS $6.00 PER WANTED So. Cal. tx. Call Jtm collect: HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY KATIE HOPE fYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082 HOUR. AMERICAN
CONTACT 703-456·6606. Keep trytng. 
HELP! NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR ITS THE BEST EVER! LOVE, MOM. 
PASSAGE. 500 THIRD AVENUE WEST DAD MIKE. AND

G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309 Wtlltrade for 2 GA's or student tix to Mtcht­JACK. MEGAN. 
LONG ISLAND. PITTSBURGH. AND SEATTLE, WA 98119. ATTN NET­I HAVE 4 MSU /\NO 2 PITT TICKETS, DANDY
gan State. Offerong cash an&.or keys to aBALTIMORE CLUB PICNIC WE::DNES· WORK. (206i 282-8111. I USC LETS

BUT NEED INSTEAD. 
NEED MANY MSU GAS. $$$$$$ CALL '76 Ptnto (JUSt ktddtng). Call KEN at 8767 DAY. SEPTEMBER 14 f\IEAR STEPAN 
TALK. CALL JERRY AT x1763 AFTER 1154 ND/SMC SENIOR PICNIC PICTURES CENTER 4 30-6 30 NEED EXTRA CASH? A bold ND student 6. ON DISPLAY--LeMANS ·TUES. 4PM­
1Have 2 MSU GAs and wtlhng to trade ttxWt!h hat soze 6-'l'to8 os reqUired for one 7PM. LaFORTUNE · WEDS & THURSNEED MICHIGAN ST STUDENT TICK­an&oor $$ for 2 USC GAs 11 tnterested or

ND SMC WOMEN DISCOVER A MORE week. Sept. 19th-23rd Hours wtll be 4 30 1 !tcket (GA or student) needed for MSU ETS. WILL TRADE OTHER GAMES. IUS! bored tn general · MIKE 8200! NOON -2PM. BEAUTIFUL YOU! LEARN ABOUT A to 6:30 evenongs. You wtll be dressed tn a game. Call Steve at277-0455. 
PAY CASH . BOTH. OR SELL MYSEL­NEW SKIN CARE PRODUCT. FOR A 19th century Brtltsh cavalry untform & act FINTO INDENTURED SERVITUDE. I NEED SO. CAROLINA TIX. CALLFREE FACIAL CALL 277-5168 AFTER 5 as a focal potntfor THE ROYAL LANCER. Need 4 MSU GAs. Pat 1238 CALL CHUCK OR RON AT X3376 MAUREEN AT 8024
PM. Hatrstyhng for men & women. Untverst!y Proper MANNERS are a stgn of good .... Cornmons (S.R. 23 between Rtbordy-s & HELP! I despertely need a GA for Mtch. breedmg . _ . 
WILL TRADE TWO MICHIGAN STATE NEED 1 MICH. ST. G.A CALL TOM ATTHE OBSERVER OFFICE AT SAINT Tempo Fashton). For an ontervoew call St. Wtll pay btg $$$!! Call284-5119. 
GA'S FOR NAVY GA'S OR WILL TAKE 4521MARY'S IS NOW OPEN MONDAY 272-7880 between 9 00 arn & 6 00 pm BEST OFFER CALL 8981 BETWEEN 4THROUGH FRIDAY FROM 12:30 TO 3. daily. 
FOR SALE. 8 MSU !tx! Call Dave at 291­
AND6PM. 
HELP!!! I NEED 2 STUD OR GA TIX FOR THIRD FLOOR HAGGAR CENTER, 2853 after 5pm or Chtp at 284-5263. 

THE MSU GAME. PLEASE CALL -­284-5365. BABYSITTERS WANTED Occasoonally Desperately need 2 MSU GA's. Call Mtke JULIE AT 443411 THEO MAJORS: Important meetingFor Professor's Two Young Chtldren. MEGA BUCKS' FOR MICH. ST. TICK­x870&o8709 today at 4:30 P.M. in room 104Near Campus. Call 288-6428 Evenongs ETS DAVEX3451 

Nr::ED TWO 12) tox. student or GA. for O'Shaughnessy.HELP 1!1 NEED 1-4 MSU STUDENT (OR MSU 8906 ENDAD NEED USC GAs John 1768 GA) TIX. $$. PLEASE. PLEASE CALL
~OST/FOUND 

APPLICATIONS FOR JUDICIAL BD AT 8425. I Need Pttt GAs.woll trade stu. season ltck 
S rUDENT ACTIVITIES IN HCC OR 174I NEED 2 GAS OR STU TIX FOR MSU II Good-lookong stster and fnends Call Paul 233 4381 LM

CALL JOHN AT 3217 desperate:y need MSU tox. Student or NEED USC TIX. PLEASE CALL 8584. LOST -ND nng wtth onttoals P.R.M. Dark 
. ................... ..

GA's. Call Jtm at 255-7036 orncnedta!ely. 
NEEDED 6 MSU GA TICKETS 

SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES SO­DESPERATELY NEED 2 STUDENT OR (PREFER PAIRS OR BETTER). PAYING purple stone set 1n gold. Call Paul at 239­CIAL CONCERNS SERIES
~3t3. or ~t 277-4851 $40 reward. no FILM SO­
Need 3 MSU ~~~-Famtly corntng fro., NJ. 
GA TIX FOR MICH ST. CALL CHRIS OR BETTER THAN TOP DOLLAR. CALL CIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES questoons asked. 
If you can help please call Deb at 3468. 
DONAT1657. 
MIKE ANTONY AT 291-4998 EXT 6328. 

FOR SALE . . . . . . ... . 
DUCK AND COVER Ato'11oc Cafe Tonoght HAVL 2 M.S.U. GA's! NEED Atr Force lost glasses :n a two tone brown case of Desperate for 1 MSU stud. lock. or GA. WARNING' Selling your two extra Mocho­

found please call Jorn 7816 at7 & 9 Eng. Aud free
Money no object. Call John 1003. 
gan State ltckets WILL be a MONEY GA's! TRADE? CALL DAVE 8238. 
....... FOF! SALE: STEREO SYSTEM: NAD 
MAKING EXPERIENCEII CALL PAT . ... 
Peace Through Mass Annihtla!tve

MISSING YOUR MANNER~? Watch The STEREO RECEIVER, NAO TURN­MICHIGAN STATE GA lockets needed'!!! 
8762 for detatls NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TICKETS Destructiveness. Ftnd out how tontght atObserver! TABLE, AR SPEAKERS AND STEREO Call Andy at 3676. 
FOR MICH. ST. KATHLEEN 284-5515 theAtornteCafe Eng. Aud. at 7 & 9 FREE.
CABINET. CALL JIM OR ANN ANY DESPERATELY NEED ONE MSU GAREWARD Lost ND Rtng '84--Biue stone· EVENING BUT PLEASE NOT AFTER 10 I NEED 2 USC TIX. W'o TRADE 2 MSU TICKET! WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! CALL TRADE 2 STU MSU,PITT OR AF FOR 2Lost while rnovong onto Dtllon. still tn nng P.M. 272-5588. 

GA'S FOR 2 USC TIX. CALL 284-5532. 
BILLAT1629. NAVY GA. 234-7016,DAN HELP!! I NEED 2 MICH ST TIX-­STUDENT OR G.A. BIG $$ CALL 
box. KEN 1601 

FOR SALE NEW 13 SYLVANIA COLOR I need 10 M.S.U. lockets Pnce no object! 
4 sale 1 G.A. x3636 NEED 1 MSU GA TICKET Call Schrnttty
Help! She's gone rnad! My poor roomate. TV'S. 4 LEFT. 277-6560 AT 17911 ST. Call Doug 288-9059 JEANNE 284-5082 
at 1687 or 1773Sharona DoNocola, has !ost her lovely, RD. 23 JUST EAST OF CAMPUS. $225 DO YOU HA'VE ANY MICH STATE TICK­basoc black, no-trolls. plastoc sunglasses EA. NEED THREE GA TIX FOR MICHIGAN ETS? I ONLY NEED 2! STUDENT OR TRADE -I need MSU G/A or student.

that have a stlver colored chatn attached ST. GAME. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7033 

G. A. CALL TERRI x6804 Will give you Navy ticket. Call Paul at ................................. 
to them and she just can't go on wtthout Portable TV !'toW. good condtlion $30 239-5313 or at 2n-4851 -Call MIND YOUR MANNERS them! (I guess she sorta hked them) If you 277-2543 NEED TWO MICHIGAN STATE TICK­TWO MICHIGAN STATE G.A.'s anytime, day or night. MIND YOUR MANNERSfond these rather base lookong cheap 
ETS! WILL PAY OR TRADE TICKETS. NEEDED FOR MY PARENTS WHO ARE MIND YOUR MANNERSthtngs. PLEASE call her (4432) and let her CHEAP! 5x6ft. navy rug $20 Call 284-CALL LAURA AT 2854. CAN'T WAIT TO 
MAKING THEIR FIRST TRIP TO NOTRE HELP! NEED TIX FOR NAVY AND PITT­know' Thanks alot• km 5490 HERE FROM YOU! 
DAME. CALL 3211 OR 3209 FOR 
CALLPEG1314 $$$$$$$$$ LOST 6 KEYS ON A KNIFE KEYCHAIN CHEAP!!! 15x5ft. betge rug $25 CALL Need 2 Mtch St GA's. Call Ralph 1105 
In DIRE NEED of 1 .2.or3 MSU student orCALL MIKE AT 8677 284-5494 

MSU TIX NEEDED. CALL 1776. GA ttx; Call Scott 3271 HELPII EN DAD 
lost. solver watch last week. Watch has POP MACHINE FOR SALE $95 255-I need 4 GA's to ANY horne garne. If you AVAILABLE 2 MICHIGAN ST GAs!!' NEED 2 MSU GA SEAN 2771405 engravong on the back. If found call Cohn 9507 can help, call Kevtn at 283-3121 or 239-HIAWATHA-Great Feet!! 3N-WWW 
WILL TRADE FOR 2 NAVY GAs. CALL8604. REWARD 5303 ERICAT8891. 
IF YURI DOESN'T GET TWO MSU TIX

FOOTBALL EQUIPMENT REAL ABDUL IS COMING!! But who ts ABDUL?
HE PUSHES THE BUTTON AND

TO THE PERSON ~HO ACCIDENTAL­CHEAP-MIKE 1760 I am not ABDUL, are you? He IS near-be
f NEED 2 MICH. ST. TICS. GA OR STUD1 NOBODY GOES TO THE GAME. CALLLY BORROWED MY MARKETING Need 4 MSU ltx or 2 patr-Karl1596 CALL RUSS 1827 $$ JAMIE 1893 on guard!' BOOK FROM THE SOUTH DINING FOR SALE G.E. 14 COLOR T.V., MAR­
HALL YESTERDAY AT LUNCH OR TIN D-18 GUITAR WITH CASE, ETRRR PLEASE HELP! I need 2 GA ttckets for EED NEED NEED 2 MICHIGAN ST.
HELP!MY FRIENDS WANT TO DRINK FOR SALE-ONE MSU ST TICKET
ANYONE WHO KNOWS OF ITS STEREO ZENITH PLEASE CALL
SPEAKERS, USC. Call James at 6984. GA'S PLEASE JOHN
INN. D. STADIUM. CALL STEVE AT 277­BEST OFFER.CALL 289-8363 AFTER
WHEREABOUTS. PLEASE CALL BINOCULARS, 2 PAIR SNOWSHOES. 36591!
1308 AFTER 2 P.M. WILL PAY BIG 10MARTHA 2769 OR RETURN IT TO LOST STEREO HEADPHONES. CALL DAVE HELPII! 
BUCKS. AND FOUND NO QUESTIONS ASKED. AT 272-0387. This is my parents first trip out of West Vir­THE OBSERVER Satnt Mary's offtce is 
one student season locket for best offer

PLEASE. gmia and they want to see what a real now Open fro., 12·30 to 3·00. Monday
call bruce after 8pm 289-6015 or 272­

.. . . . .......... . FOR SALE REFRIGERTOR. EXCEL­football game is like. Help me out with a through Fnday, 3rd floor. Haggar Center. LOST---KEY RING WITH 3 KEYS. LOST LENT CONDITION 4.3 cubtc 11.; largest MICHIGAN STATE GA Call Scotty at 3619 284-5365 . BEHIND STEPAN ON WEDNESDAY. SIZe allowed at ND ONLY 90.001 Call 1219. 
TRADE-HAVE 2 MSU TICKS: WANT 2 I need four G. A.s for Mtchtgan State. Call 
SEPTEMBER 7. IF FOUND. PLEASE today 277-7392 HAPPY BIRTHDAY. PEGGY!! From your
Btll at 3434. $$$$ USC OR 2 A. F. TICKS CALL 1433 

CALL MIKE AT 1421 AS SOON AS POS­favorote little bro and everyone else who SIBLE' I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA's. WILL PAY loves you! 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE FROM NEED MSU TICKETS. PLEASE CALL Need 6 USC GA's and 2 Ptttsburgh GA's 
WELL CALL RANDY AT 6700. 
SAGINAW MICH. AREA-FRI. ~o16 DO TRACY 4347. and posstbly a fairy godmother. I've got
LOST ONE DRUNK LANNY NOL TA 

YOU HAVE FRIENDS'oFAMIL Y COMING plenty of gold. Call Kerry at 234-9114. 
LAST WEDNESDAY NIGHT OUTSIDE I NEED. LUST. DESIRE 2-3 USC TIX

TO ND FOR MSU GAME? PLEASE MSU TICKET NEEDED. STUDENT OROF BRIDGETS TERRY 8486 
CALL JOAN A. SAP. 277-7576. GA FOR LITTLE BROTHER CALL LAR· 
If it's MANNERS that you seek, watch
RY234-9114.
WANTED LANNY NOLTA FOR SENSE­

NEED 2 Student or 2 GA's lor Mtch-State. Ths Observer next week ... LESS AXE MURDER 
Please call Laura 8079. 
PERSONALS ]

INEED2 MICH. STATE STUDENT TICK­
ETS. CALL PAUL 8301 or 3697LOST Keys on dogotal watch chatn. If 
desperately need rntchogan state locket. found. call Shetla at 284-5433. Lost m TICKETS name your pnce. call277-1405. PATTY (PITTIBLE) JUCKNIESS IS 18 
NEED 2 STU OR 2 GA TIX FOR MSU IF YOU HAVE OR HAVE NOT REGIS. 
area of Flanner-Grace ntght of Sat.. Sept. TODAY CALL AND ABUSE--SHE'S THE 
GAME. CALL JOHN 8301. TERED FOR THE DRAFT, HAVE QUEs­
3 NEEDED 2-10 ltckets lor Mtch St game FROSH OF THE FOUR LOVE VA ANN.
TIONS ABOUT CONSCIENTIOUS 

TICKETS NEEDED FOR USC-MUST Any pnce acceptable Call Bruce at 6760 BOB. KATH 
Doesn't anyone out there care? We're OBJECTION, DEFERMENTS, EXEMP­HAVE---CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 Can deal for Colorado.Mtamo, or Ar'11y talking about one seriously demented TIONS, THE CHURCH'S POSITION ON
lockets JEDO 810 INO RULES 
Individual! Thia person is a tan of BEARING -RMS... CONTACT MAR­NEED GA TIXS FOR ALL HOME

FOR RENT 

(shhhll) ALABAMA. but Alabama fans GARET GARVEY, CAMPUS MINISTRY, 
GAMES. PETE 255-9196 NEED MICH ST. GA'S CAI.L JIM 277-THINK LANNY!!! 
pay big bucks to see NOI We only need BADIN HALL (239-5242) FOR DRAFT2163 four tickets-is thet too much to ask AND MILITARY COUNSELLING. 
Need 4 GA's for MICH STATE GA~E. DANNY MO EATS COINS 
for this cause? Call Marc or Greg atFOR RENT COMPLETELY FUR· Call Kratg at 1608. $$$ tor 3 Navy GA and 4 Pitt. GA. Call 8284. RICH UNCLE WANTS TICKETS TO USC~SHED APARTMENT 1 Mary Ellen 283-7825. SEPT. 17 IS LANNY NOLTA NIGHT AT
GAME. CALL x1763 ANYTIME AFTER 6 BEDROOM. LIVING NEED TWO MSU GA OR STUDENT CAMPUS VIEW ... POSTERS.T-SHIRTS.

WILL TRADE 2 MSU TICKETS FOR USC 
ROOM.BATHROOM.KITCHEN 2 BIG TICKETS. WILL PAY WELL CALL Please Trade I offer 2 Mtchogan State GA AND LANNY LOOK-A-LIKE CONTEST 
TICKETS. CALL BOB AT 3526. 
CLOSETS CALL JOE LACOPO 731 KEVIN8822 sand $50 for 2 USC GAs Call Steph 2172 IN APT. 304 ACROSS FROM POOL 

MULTIMILLIONAIRE FRIEND WILL

DIAMOND AVE. 233-2203 Need MSU stu & GA's. Call1695. PAY MULTI-DOLLARS FOR 4-6 TICK­
NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs OR 1 Help' Parents are comong woth my favorote COOL BUDS. TASTY WAVES AND LAN­
ETS TO MSU OR USC. CALL BILL AT

NEED DESPERATELY 4 MSU TICKETS. NYNOLTA
GA AND 1 STUDENT TICKET. CALL brother and I have to deliver three GA's for x1763.
I need 1 student !tcket tor MSU. PleaseWILL PAY$$$ CALL CHRIS OR BOB AT KATHY AT2966. Mtchtgan State. Two GA's and one stu­call Ann at 1342. late ntght IS best.
6871. 

.. .. ........... .......................... dent would be ftne. Call Ed at 277­
I need 1 studentltcket for Mtch. State. Call 
.. . . . . . . . .. . . . 

NEED DESPERATELY 1 MSU TICKET. 7 415. Thanks. NEEDED ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE 
A hornbly burnt chold needs 2 GA 'sand 1 Mtke x6770 Thank-you.
WILL PAY. CALL KATHY 7793 

studentttcket to the M.S.U. game. PleaseWITH EXCELLENT STEREO TO SHARE NEED 4 MSU G.A. s. WILL PAY BIG MEET THE METZ. GREET THE METZ.
call 289-5379 of you want to rnake a hor­For MANJ~ERS are not odie. but the frUit ofTOWNHOUSE. CA.LL272-5139 
NEED 4 OR MORE GA TIX FOR MICH BUCKSI CALL KEVIN at8636 GIRLS CAN EVEN BEAT THE METZ ... 
robly deformed chtld very happy. Ask for loyal nature and of noble '11tnd. -Ten­
ST. WILL PAY TOP$$. CALL MAUREEN NOLTA FEVER ... CATCH IT
Slick. nysonNEED 1 OR 2 HOUSEMATES. CHEAP 284-5180. WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 1 MSU TICKET.
J 
RENT. GOOD FOOD & DRINK. FAIRLY 

CALL DANNY 277-5263. 
~ 
TO GET YOUR HANDS ON THE HOT­Need 1 MSU Ttcket Call Janet at 284-TEST PENNY AROUND. CALL NICKEL
OPEN MINDED MATES. 6 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. to2 BLOCK FROM INEED1 GAFORM.S.U WILL PAY TOP 
4261. AT 1215) 776-0673 
BARS CALL MURPH 287-9252 DOLLAR' CALL MIKE 1770. 
Any type of FILM for only $.50. Call1312 Relatoves comtng to see forst N.D. game. I 
I 
WANTED TWO MSU TIX. PLEASE tor more mforrnatton. LANNY LIVES need 3 M.S.U. lockets. Call John 3187 Need MSU or USC Ttx ca!l Chas. 1588CALL RON AT 3360 
PARTY-PARTY-PARTY Sodom and Desperately need Penn State garne lock­STILL NEED 2 TO 4 MSU GA S.FOR 
Gomorrah 1406 South Bend Ave. This


WANTED 

ets. Call Bnan at 8795. FAMILY:CALL PAT AT 1185 
Friday nite ALL are welcome to come NEED 3 MSU GAS OR STU TIX. 
out and prepare for Mich St. PARTY t­

PLEASE CALL BILL AT 277-4273 Need 3 stud. 1 GA MSU ttx. Please call I have 2 MSU GAs. 1would hketotradefor LANNY NOLTA THE ARKANSAS STUD 
I 
PARTY-PARTY Wanted: 2 dependable females to Joe 8257 any other ho'11e garne. Call Maureen at ONCE LIKED TO HAVE SEX IN THE share hvtng expenses tn a ntce. turntshed HELP' Need 3 GA s for Mtchtgan State 4635. MUD ALL THE GIRLS CAME TO CALL nouse. $150.00 per month (tncludes rent Game! Call Jay Sullivan at 1396. Wtll talk HELP! NEED 2 GA TIXS FOR MICH TIL IN LOVE HE DID FALL NOW KELLEY and utthtoes). Non-smokers please. Call about$. STATE. CALL MIKE AT 1475. NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO MICHIGAN TAKES CARE OF HIS PUD 239-5930 before s·oo or 291-9644 after STATE GAME. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. Bed and Breakfast -football weekends for 
5 00 p m. HELP! I need 3 Navy G.A.'s. Woll pay NEED USC TIX WILL TRADE 2 MSU GA CALL 239-5313 OR 272-1723 ASK FOR ND parents. Two (2) ntght mtntmum. 10 LANNY NOLT A AND CHRISTO ARE
I 
good money. Call Tom at 1423. OR PAY BIG$ CALL ROB 1193 JANE HEALEY mtns. from campus. 272-5640. COMING
I J J 
1 
I 
~ 
The Observer Wednesday, September 13, 1983 -page 9 
• • . Dingens 


Interested in working for 
The Observer ? 

Attend Thursday's recruit meeting at 6 p.m. in LaFortune's Little Theatre. Everyone who filled out an Observer form at Activities Night should attend. 

All those interested In helping out on the 1984 Do e: 
-layout -copy -photography 
Please come to the Organizational Meeting Wednesday, September 14 
In the Dome office-3rd floor LaFortune, 7:00pm. 
Any questions, call dane at 6849 orKate at 3097 
Your resume should also be special. A professionally typeset resume is important because it shows you in your best light. We are typesetting professionals and can help you look your best. 
Bring this od with you f01 10% Off on the typesetting of vour resume. Offer exptrea October 31, 1983. Offer good only for typesetting. 
247 Dixieway North S.outh Bend, IN 46637 
219-277-3355 
continuedfrom page 12 
Ding~ns to make his first-ever inter­
ception and set up Notre Dame's 
third touchdown. 
"! guess I was a little worried about the game, hut hy Friday I wasn't that nervous," says Dingens. "I was just wondering whether I could hold up for a whole game. Our rotation in the line made a big dif­ference as all of us could rest a little from the heat and come back in fresh." 
"All of us" includes \1ike Gann, who plays contain tackle when Din­gens sits out, and Eric Dorsey, who plays at flip tackle when Gann shifts over to Dingens' position or takes a breather. 
After working his way into the backup role for Bob Clasby last season, Dingens inherited the No. 1 slot at contain tackle last spring when Clasby graduated. 
"I was a little surprised myself," says Dingens, who was rated as one ofthe top-50 prospects in the nation by theFootball News after his senior year in high school. "I didn't expect to letter as a freshman and start as a sophomore, hut I really worked hard, especially with the weights." 
Despite his large frame, it is the quickness and 1gility of Dingens that most impress his coaches. Being a finesse player, he is \Veil suitt.·d to his contain tackle position which re­quires him to seal off or "contain" speedy running hacks like Purdue's 
Mel Gray from outside sweeps to his side. 

"I'm not the physical player that 
an Eric Dorsey is," says Dingens, 
"hut I try to make up for it hy playing 
intelligently." 

And therein lies Dingens' greatest 
asset. A pre-professional major with 
aspirations for medical school, Din­
gens compiled a 3.7 cumulative 
grade point average last year while 
making adjustments to the college scene. 
"There is great pressure to win and excell in college," Dingens says. "You have to make sacrifices if you want to reach your goals." 
One of those goals includes becoming an orthopedic surgeon. "I'm looking for a career where I'm not just sitting behind a desk," 
says Dingcns. "I want to be able to work with my hands and get them dirty. You deal a lot with broken hones and things like that in that profession." 
Broken bones, however, are something that Dingens wants to deal with only on the operating table, not on football fields. 
"I don't try to hurt anybody," says the gentle giant. "I expect the people I hit to get right back up." 
It's repuatations like that, combined with his brains and brawn, that are building a good name for Dingens at Notre Dame. 
Even if that name may be mispronounced. 
AP Top TwentJ 
The Top T-nty college football teams tn The Associated Press poll, w1tl1 first-place votes in parentheses. th1s season's recOI'ds and total po1nts. Po1nts based on 20-19-1 8-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are italicized. 
1. Nebraska (51) 1-2-00 1 '114 2. Oklal1o'lla (2) 1-0-0 1.034
TODAY 
3. Texas(2) 0-0-0 964 4. Notre Dame 1-().() 909 5. Auburn ( 1) 1-0-0 903 6. Oh10 Stale 1-0-0 756 
soccer 
7. Anzona 2-0-0 667 8. M1ch1gan 1-0-0 624 
vs. Bethel 
9. Flonda State 2-0-0 623 10. N. Carol'"a 2-0-0 622 
7:30 

Cartier Field 11. Georg1a 1-0-0 568 12. Alaba'11a 1-0-0 452 13. Iowa 1-0-0 427 14. usc 0-0-1 353 15. Flonda 1-0-1 319 16. Washington 1-0-0 236 17. Maryland 1-0-0 211 18. SMU 2-0-0 196 19. Pittsburgh 2-0-0 193 20. W. V~rgtn1a 2-0-0 180 

· 

LIVE! DIRECT·FROM NEW YORK! The One! The Only! Broadway's Smash Hit! 
New York Shakespeare Festival's 
lie Pirafts ot Penzantt 
Those famous swashbuckling pirates ... damsels in distress ... young lovers ... and "the model of a modern major general"! Audiences will cheer Gilbert and Sullivan's merry, richly musical hit! 
Starring Maria Muldaur (Midnight At The Oasis) Sunday, Sept. 18 · 7:30PM Morris Civic Auditorium Tickets $19.50 · $16.50 • $12.50 at Century Center or charge by phone at 284·9111 

Eating Disorders 
• 
Anorexia Nervosa 

• 
Bulimia 


~ 

\ j 


~y;> 
A 10-week 
structured therap,l 
group ever) Tuesda)· 
evening, be~innin~ 
:\otre Hame Campus 
Limited Enrollment 
Registration doses 
St•pt .22 
For further information ContaL·t: 

An illness that makes Dan R~hil:ki, Ps). n. peopiP starve, vomit or 239·7-H6 pur£ff because they Counselin~ ·Psychological think they are fat' Servtces Center 
-~-\.------·---·--­
f . 
~ ' I 
The Observer Wednesday; September 13,1983-page 10 

Major League roundup 
Montreal retakes NL East lead 
CHICAGO ( AP) -Rookie Bob RBI grounder. James earned his first major league The Tigers made it 3-1 in the third 
N.Y. 5, Phil.1 

victory, allowing just one hit in 4 1-3 when Wayne Krenchicki drew a PHU.ADELPHIA (AP) -Rookie
innings· of relief and pitching the leadoffwalk from Rick Behenna. 0·1, Darryl Strawberry crashed a single,
\1ontreal Expos to a 5-2 victory over went to third on Lou Whitaker's double and a home run, batted in
the Chicago Cubs yesterday. single and scored on a double-play The Expos got four runs in the ball by Alan Trammell. three runs and scored twice as the first inning against loser Dickie .\1orris, 19-10, increased his New York \1ets beat the Philadel· Noles, <;-1 0. Tim Raines led offwith a American League-leading strikeout phia Phillies 5-1 yesterday night and single and stole second, pushing his total by four to give him 207 this dropped the Phillies into second National League-leading total to 1 1, season. \1orris also grabbed the place in the National League East. as \1anny Trillo struck out. Andre league lead with his I Hth complete Dawson followed with a triple to game. N.Y. 2,Mil.1 score Raines and came around on AI Oiiver's grounder, which hand­NEW YORK (AP) -Ken Griffey
Pitt. 6, St. L. 0 

cuffed Cubs second baseman Dan collected three hits, including a two­Rohn for an error. out single that drove in the tie­
PITTSBCRGH (AP) Rick Gary Carter then forced Oliver at breaking run in the eighth inning as
Rhoden pitched a five-hitter and second and Tim Wallach walked the New York Yankees edged Mil·
Tony Pena homered during a four­
hefore Terry rrancona ripped a two­waukee 2-1 last night. handing the
run Pittsburgh third inning as the 
APPhoto run double into the right-field cor­Brewers their fifth straight loss.
Pirates blanked the St. Louis Car· 
ner.

Ri(·k Leach continues to add offense to the dinals 6-0 last night. Detroit attack as the Tigers chase Baltimore in the American Rhoden, 11-12, struck out six and League East. The Tigers squeaked b_y Cleveland 3-2/ast night. walked three in shutting out St.
Det. 3, Clev. 2 
NATIONAL LEAGUE

Louis for the second time this 
season. Both of his 1983 shutouts w L Pet. GB Montreal 74
DETROIT (AP) -Successive 68 .521
have been against the Cardinals, the 
Phtladelphta 74 69 .517 .5
i mlt;"i;igi,;-utrt;;~;;ii;1 East doubles by Larry Herndon and other comingJune 26. Ptttsburgh 74 70 .514 1 Lance Parrish keyed a two-run St. Louts 72 71 .503 2.5 Chocago 64 80 .444 11
I -r--··. We we/comeBack Haircut, Shampoo, I Detroit tlrst inning and Jack \1orris 
Rhoden now has a 3·1 record 
New York 60 84 .417 15
1 allfaculty · · I tossed a five-hitter as the Tigers heat West
against the Cardinals this season.
andstudents Blow Dry, &ConditiOn 
Los Angeles 84 60 .583
the Cleveland Indians 3-2 last night. 

Atlanta 80 64 .556 4
I ~ Reg.$15 I After two were out in the tlrst in­The Pirates chased loser Joaquin 
Houslon 75 68 524 8.5 
San D1ego 72 73 497 12.5
ning, Herndon and Parrish doubled Andujar, 6-14, with four runs and
I 54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. N $S SQ 1 
San Franctsco 68 77 469 16.5 
I
Acro'ss from Martin's on St. Rd.23 QW • WITH COUPON for one run and Kirk Gibson singlect five of their hits in the third. After 
Cmc1nnatt 66 79 455 18.5 
Tues, Wed,.sa_t 8:~-5:30 H . $ wrTH I Herndon across. Pena hit Andujar's first pitch of the 
Yesterday's Results

I Thur, Fn 8.30-8.30 alrcut only 6 COUPONI The Indians got one hack in the innng over the left-field wail for his 
I' 
J 
I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
Montreal 5. Chtcago 2 
Pittsburgh 6. sfLOUIS 0

272•0312 277•1691 MOff~lppllutoMALEpatronsonly second when Gorman Thomas hit a 12th homer, Dale Berra singled and 
H11r must bl washld day ot cut. • 
New York 5. Phtladelphta 1

leadoff double, went to third on a stole second and scored on Marvell 
IT LOOKS LIKE A CHECK & WORKS LIKE ACHECK 
i----------.,:-:.:;:---------.-:~-.-;:;;·7~~-;-! 
. i 

J-;""( :.. •. . ' ...... ... •. l ~ ~ J··-· --:,...1-.,/.. .~;.-... cJ. ! ~·-=~..=:=~ " i 
! .... ·--·---· ---s·..,-!
·~ .. ..,;.-''T. 

~.::. :·~ ·.;.:::: __ ---------------------~ 
SO WHY IS IT CALLED SHARE DRAFT? 
Because it's better ...There's no service charge and no minimum balance required. Plus. any balance over seven hundred and fifty dollars earns daily interest. Plus. you may choose overdraft protec· tion at no charge. Plus you get an instant duplicate of every check and monthly statements. Compare that with any other checking in town. If you're a member. it's easy to start your share draft ac­count. You see. it's called Share Draft because members own a share of the Credit Union. If y,u·re not a member. ask about that. You may be pleasantly surprised to find you can be part of this financial cooperative called the Notre Dame Credit Union. 
JUST LIKE CHECKING~ 

YOUR 
NOTRE DAME 
CREDIT UNION 239-6611 


I---------------------------------------~I
! PRE -CANA PROGRAMS I 
THE

I I I I
I Marriage Preparation Is 1 diocesan requirement I 
1 across the country 
Rinllinga6oul 

cJJt c!/,a cJtJellse ? 


I 
I 
C1nc1nnat1 6. Atlanta 0 

grounder and scored on Pat Tabler's Wynne's single. 
Los Angeles 5. Houslon 1 
San D1ego 4, San Franc1sco 3 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East 

w L Pet. GB Baltt'TIOre 87 55 .613 DetrOit 83 62 .572 5.5 
~··················~ 
~ : 
t 
New York 81 63 .563 7 Toronto 80 66 .548 9 M1lwaukee 79 66 .545 9.5 Boston 69 76 .476 19.5 Cleveland 64 81 .441 24.5 

tAttention: Juniors and Seniors : 
West Ch1cago 85 59 590 KansasCtty 68 75 .476 16.5 
Oakland 68 78 466 18 
Texas 67 78 .462 18.5 Cahfornta 64 80 .444 21 M1nnesota 61 84 .421 24.5 jseattle 55 88 .385 29.5
The University at Buffalo will be on 
Yesterday's Results jBaltvnore 7·7. Boston 4-1, 1st ga'Tle 12 tnn.

campus to talk to students interested 
jDetrott 3. Cleveland 2

:+ ++ jNew York 2. Mtlwaukee 1
in all graduate and professional + 
jchtcago 5. M1nnesota 1 Kansas Ctty 4. Caltfornta 3 
!oakland 6. Texas 5 Toronto 6. Seattle 4

programs including law, dentistry 
:

~+ and others on Friday, September 16,
+from 1Oam-3pm at the Placement·+ Office. : 

++
+ 

---~···~·-·············· 
1

.ATICAN 

MUSIC by DEWAN 
GO IRISH!!! BEAT STATE! 


I I
SLIDE PRESENTATION 
College Students 

I I I You Can Earn $18 Per Hour I
Tuesday September ~l'th 
Or...At Least... I
I ' 
1~=20 -l.~=~~p.m.
•I I 
$540 Per Month 

I
Thursda\· Sc~1 temh:-r l~th 
Working On Your Own Schedule 1
I 

r------------~ 
i ·: . ' COLLECTIONI1 
18CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB~ 
I I 
f1nter-Cf'aith GJnstructions cprc-GMarital 9nventoryt 
7:1.5 -7:4"5 p.m. 

1 As Little As 1 I 1 Hour Per Day 1 
: September 19 and 26 CJiost Co~ple Gflrograml I February 15 and 22 I 
I I
THE ,\\\E\BERG .\L'DITORIL'.\1
I or-I 
I I
I
I 7:3op.m. 

THE S~ITE .\\USEC.\1 OF .\RT 
I Well Established Firm I
I Badin Hall Chapel cpre. Cana GWe.ekend4 
L~\1\'ERSITY OF \OTRE 0.\.\lE
I I 
I I
Well Established Product

1 Nov. 11·12, Feb. 3-4 1 
I I
: Mar. 2·3, Mar. 30-31 : 
· I ' ( ~' . · · I
.-\{{ ~ ( IOH'HI[:' .Ill' 'l't't' or L J.Pge. 1:7(; 't'rlt'S I~ CU-'i'llll.'tllt'.l 
I I
I I 
· ( I· I { .
1 sign up at: 1 
1 Call Today Earn Tomorrow 1
[,,, E,IliC,IliOIIdl .\\t',il-1 .111.1 Till' ~llltt' .\~ll't'lllll 1,, .-\n. 
l

1 CompUI miniJtry -Badin Office I 
I 277 · 5790 Ask. For Mr. Stoler I
I 239-5242 1 
~--------------------------------------~ 
L-----------~ 
.. 

Wednesday, September 13, 1983-page 11 
Bloo01 County 
so. YQJ'~ 
IlL£ RTYOOR 
H1Cil !'JUtXt. UNH OOH. RWNION ANv YOJ'Vf. GOT A 
I
rtDVTH FW.. Of 



Fate 
TH£ FlAKPoSt OF 
YOIA. MIAST L£Af.N ro 
IHI~ COWfSt.. IS 10 
FE[! fifE{ TC 
f![t.P YOU THINK 
CHAu.t"NG-( me fHOIA4H1
GtfIT I(ALL.V 
AND OPINIONS OF OTH{f!S.
\ 
I 
~ 
1ti~ 


SHMEN 
I · . NoT MVC.H FROM .,IWHPTS Wf\~.,. l'/E 
1 
GOING ON HEARD ... A. : lON 'G HT? PoflC.ORJl PMT'fl 
. I • IN 34'1 13UT n\AT'S \\iNDOF A : 



'fhe Daily Cross"'ord 

© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/14/83All Rights Reserved 
WW­

NOW fJON'I Y(}IJ 5Ufro5€ 7!fAr REAl. FRif-NC'S CAN 61\~(..Y MRUXll<. ~... 



1 
26 Ocean eagle 27 Satisfied 29 Roman 
bronze 30 Endeavors 32 Piece of 
cle?.red 
land 34 Always 35 Acting 
award 36 Handyman 38 Certain 
criminals 41 River of China 
42 Place for an outdoor party 
44 Poetic time of day 46--China 
9114/83 

Berke Breathed 
SAY, 
WOUW YOO 
MINP FAC1N0 


1 WILl 

Jlhotius 
NOT STAND FOR 
IWSU£0f?.[JINATION. Gff our 
or MY cL.Ass NOW.'! 
PO YOI). HfAf MC WORM 7 
OUT/ . 

John Gibbs 
r'LL Go TFLL OKA'I. r'M Hit. (ji)~S (jJING TO 1-\oP 11'1 WHAT'S uP Tift t)fl.AIN FDR 

· 
Campus. 
•12:1 
S p.m.·-Workshop, "An Overview of the 1982-H.~ Public Policy Workshop Series." Ro~er Skurski, Library Lounge 

• 
~ p.m. -Computer Minicourse. l sing and Writing Clists. 11 ')Computing Center 


•4:~0 p.m. Microbiolo~')' Seminar, "Experimental Carcmogenesi~ hy Dil·tarv 'Jitntc" Dr. Tomoaki :\-;ano. 2-.H Galvin Life Sci<'ncc-.. 
•·L~O 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium. "Til(· Tran~ti>rmation Lm of the Theta htm·tim~" l'ro! .John .\hll-..on. 226 CC \fl 

•6::'.0 
p. m -Japan C~ub Meeting, Ld·.,rtun< l.ittlt: Theatre •-p. rn -Lecture... Bn·a~t Cancer :\ '.\ oman · llamlhook." Deh;;rah lkwar \1t'tDllrial J.ihr.tn Lounge Spons(lli.'d h\· '\;ptr'_ Dam• 'X'o·•:cn', 


C:tllf.'US 
.-and lJ p.m .. Social Concerns Him Serie-.. ''Atnmk (.;~it:." l:ngintTflll).! Auditonum. I·r·"'· 
•'"":~0 p.111 ·-Soc(·cr, ~U \kn v~.lkthc! ~.olkgt Carttcr lteld 
•H p.m. -Ballet, ln:.l!:mapoli:-. Ballet Th<:atre. 

()'Laughlin Auditorium. !~ for adults. S2 tor stll-If. dent.., and sl·nior citizens 
•9 p.m.-NO I SMC Rightto Life Organizatic.m· al Meeting, LaFortune Littk Theatre 
I • 
'• TV :ron.ight , 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
10p.m. 
16  MASH  
22  Family Feud  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  Straight Talk  
16  Real People  
22  Saturday Morning Preview  
28  The Fall Guy  
34  American journey  
16  Facts oflife  
22  Wednesday Night  Movie: "Maid in  

America"  
28  Two Marriages  
16  Family Ties  
16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Dynasty  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  

10:30 p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Police Story  
28  Thicke ofthe Night  

·Far Side· ·.·.' ·, 
0 
0 0 
, ' J,. , [ ~ ,-r. 
• 

. , 1 
• • : 

"There! Quick Larry! Look! ... Was I kidding" . .. Tliat ~ucker's lonaer than the boat!" 
48 Immerse 49 Carnegie or Evans 50 Wading birds 52 Representa­tive: abbr. 53 City in 
France 54 -for words 56 Made into 
law 58 Mosque 
tower 59 Parsonage 60 Status 
groups 61 Loved ones 
DOWN 1 Evening 
service 2 Contestant 3 Hungarian 
composer 4 Amount 
left over 5 Make edging 6 Soft wind 7 Formal 
demand: 
abbr. 8 Musical work 
9 "-New York in June'' 
10 Wool·like fiber 11 Having pleasant odors 

12 "Beau-" 13 Student 15 Curves 20 Angora and 
Siamese 23 Like Wild 
West wagons 
24 Compel 
27 Perfume ingredient 28 Color 31 A Harrison 33 Inspect 35 Kitchen 
appliance 36 Zealot 37 Hoosier State 38 Dance de­rived from the twist 39 Dealer in property 40 Peter the actor 41 King of Tyre 43 Cooks 45 Poor 47 Stewpots 49 Formal pro· nouncements 51 Kind 53 Intertwine 55 Visualize 57 Beatty the actor 


~~ 
Dingens makes impressive debut 
I 

By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports !X'riter 

Sophomore defensive tackle Greg 
Dingcns is beginning to make a 'i' name for himself this year. ·, Hut that name is not "Dingers" as 
> i I it was referred to hy the Purdue pre~s-hox announcer in last Satur­day's game at West Lafeyette. ''I'm ust:d to mi'ipronunciations," says the 6-6, 257-pound Hloomtleld, \lichigan · native whose name is 
Cutting through the crowd 
Despite mispronunciations 
Oh,ervt!r Photo/Paul Citarelli 
Irish wing 'IfarkBidinger works his way through a crowd of Valparaiso players yesterday on Alumni Field. Rich Herdegen'sfour goals led Notre Dame to a 7-0 shutout. The next game is today at 7:30 p.m. on Cartier Field againstBethel College. 
pronounced as DIN-juns. 
Whatever the pronunciation, members of the Purdue offensive unit prohahly heard the name enough after receiving their share of "dingers" from him. 
Like three other members of the defensive unit, Dingt·ns made his tlrst career start for Notre Dame last Saturday. Although his performance may have heen overshadowed hy freshman \1ike Kovaleski's im­pressive debut in place of Mike Larkin, Dingens himself was singled out by the \1utual Radio Network as one of the pleasant surprises for the Irish this season. 
Among the big plays Dingens was involved in was a sack of Campbell that forced a fumble in Purdue ter­ritory. \1ikc Golic recovered the fumble to set up a \1ike Johnston field goal. One series later, Golic tipped a Campbell pass that enabled 
see DINGENS, page 9 

The Killer Instinct returns 
It's been four days since Notre Dame squeaked past  
Purdue and the campus is stiJI buzzing about the final  
score.  
52-6.  
Thl' numbers were flashing across the scoreboard  
like th~ prices flash on the cash register at the  
Bookstore.  
I think it's safe to say that nobody expected the scor .e  
to he as lopsided as it was, but it shouldn't he a surprise  
that we dominated the game.  
No one.can say that Gerry faust doesn't know how to  
get his team ready for the opening game. Louisiana State  
and \tichigan hoth took a heating physically, and, while  
it didn't show on the scoreboard, were dominated both  
offensively and defensively. And they were better teams  
than the Purdue team that was embarrassed Saturday.  
However, there are some major differences between  
the Purdue and Michigan and LSU games that point to a  
new and improved Irish team this year.  
First, there was the play of Blair Kiel. Kid, who had  
specialized in throwing short passes to his backs and  
tight ends, looked as sharp as ever as he spread his  
throws around to a number ofreceivers. He threw to his  
hacks, he threw to his wide outs, and he threw to his  
tight end. He threaded the needle and tossed almost as  
many touchdown passes in this one game as he did all of  
last year.  
Wt:'re told every year about how confident he is, hut  
it appears that his confidence is now starting to show  
itselfin his game. When he was injured last year, people  
noticed how important he was to the team. He now  
.  J  knows that his teammates, coaches, and fellow students respect his ability as a quarterback and realizing this has  
:  j ;  allowed him to run the offense better.  
Second, there was the margin ofvictory. Against L~U,  
j  and especially against \fichigan, Notre Dame totally  
J  dominated the game hut not the scoreboard. In fact, the  
J J J  victory over \1.ichigan was in jeopardy until the last minute of the game despite the fact that the Wolverine  
J  defense could not stop the Irish rushing attack. Notre  
J I J  Dame just did not put the game away. The same can't he said about the Purdue game.  
J  Which leads us to the third point -killer instinct.  
J 1 I  Over the last two years, Faust and his team hav~ not been able to move to a lead and increase it through£~  
) I 1  final gun. They have sat on the lead and tried to Pf'Otect it (Arizona), or they have exploded early hut did no­ 
!  


Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
thing for most ofthe last half(Navy, Georgia Tech). 
The successful Notre Dame teams over the last 20 years have heen ahlc to hury the weaker teams, but recently Notre Dame has heen too complacent. The players should come into games against teams like Oregon and Colorado with destruction on their minds. Not only do the polls like it, but it removes the pos­sibility ofa few bad breaks turning the game around. 
Ifthe Purdue game is any indication, this Notre Dame team has the same killer instinct ofNotre Dame teams of old. With the score 17-0 and with little time remaining in the first half, the Irish struck not once but twke. The quick scores took most of the fight out of the Boiler­makers. A 61-yard bomb to open the second half totally demoralized them. 
Finally, there is the post-game reaction ofthe players. Except for one unwise comment about the national championship, the coaches and players are downplay­ing the win and looking to \1ichigan State. Quite a dif­ference from the reaction after the \1ichigan game where everyone was going crazy for days. 
Last year, after the .\1ichigan win, people were talking 
about how the team should he 7-0 heading into Pitt, hut 
a couple ofweaker teams in Arizona and Oregon ruined 
that. We, meaning the students, fans, and coaches, can't 
start thinking about a national championship now. The 
season is just one game old and \1ichigan State is the 
next harrier. 
If we take every game one step at a time, the better team will win. Chances are that the better team should be Notre Dame. Every team we play will be psyched up for us, hut if we can get psyched up for every individual game, then we will not lose. Ifwe are not psyched up for an opponent like \1ichigan State or Air Force, we will probably lose. 
But, after the Purdue game, things are looking much better than anyone expected. 
Oh, yellb. The last time a Notre Dame tealll scored 
more than 40 'paints was in 1977. I( I remember cor­
rectly, Notre Dame did quite well that year. 
Wednesday, September 13, 1983 -page 12 
Irish get ready for rebuilding Spartans 

huck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 


Hello again, everybody! 

"Wow" -that's the tlrst word that comes to mind when trying to describe last Saturday's performance hy Gerry Faust's Fighting Irish as they methodically rolled over Purdue. Nevertheless, confidence -cockiness -should he the message preached to Irish fans this week. Sure, \1ichigan State returns almost nobody from a squad that could barely manage a 2-9 record last year. Sure, the Irish have won I2 of their last I_; encounters against the Spartans. However, one only needs to reflect to last year's Oregon game to realize the Irish will not win their home opener merely by showing up. 
Perles ofWisdom ...First-year Spartan coach George Perlcs has a tremendous task ahead of him as he tries to build \1ichigan State's program back to respectability. Fans in East Lansing are hungry since they haven't had a winning season since I97H, and they may not he willing to give Perks a lot oftime to produce. Hut give Pcrles credit 
-he is not showering the Spartan faithful with prontises of a Rose Bowl trip, or even a winning season in I983. Says Perles, "I think we have some people here that give us a chance for success. I have confidence we can go out there and compete. Going up is the only place to go, and I think we are capable ofdoing that." In other words, Perles feels the Spartans can be a good team, but don't expect miracles. 
A Classic Series ...Whenever Notre Dame and Michigan State meet, you know the game will be a good one. Blowouts, such as the one Irish fans gleefully witnessed last week, arc rarities in this rivalry. Last year, Dave Duerson's interception in the waning moments secured an 11-3 victory over the Spartans at East Lansing. At Notre Dame Stadium, the Spartans have had reasonable success compared to most schools, posting a 6-10 ledger. One must remember, though, most of those victories came during the late fifties and early sixties 
when the Irish were not exactly rolling up national championships. Overall, Notre Dame leads the series _; l-I6-I, with the tie coming in the famous 10-I0 game in 1966 which matched two ofc0llege foot­ball's greatest coaches, Ara Parscghian and Duffy Daugherty. 
Spartans to Watch ...As mentioned earlier, nearly everybody from last year's crop ofstarters has graduated. But that may he good ·news -after all, how good could they have been if Michigan State tlnished at 2-9? Sophomore quarterback Dave Yarema guided the Spartans to their only wins last year, and he will be at the controls of the attack once again. He has two tine receivers in tight end Tom 
Robinson and speedster Daryl Turner. Turner, who caught only 
eight passes last fall despite starting every game, hauled in six aerials 
in last week's 23-I7 triumph over Colorado. The running game is 
inexperienced, but junior Carl Baker and freshmen Robert \1orsc 
and Dean Altobelli are highly regarded by Perles. 
On defense, you will be hard-pressed to find a better Big Ten 
linebacker than Carl Hanks. The secondary is composed of several 
veteran performers, including fine senior cornerback, Carter 
Kamana. Perles oases hi~ defense on a stunting 4-3 formation, which 
means the Spartans will blitz their linebackers frequently. 
The kicking game is in the very capable hands ofRalf \tojsiejenko. Only a junior, Mojsiejenko has a foot that resembles a cannon, and can hit field goals from 50 yards away. Ifthe Spartans have the hall in Irish territory frequently, Mojsiejenko could he a major factor in the game. 
Born to Run ...The Irish have had great success in recent years running i:he football against \1.ichigan State. The happiest day for some Spartan fans may have heen when Phil Carter graduated last \1ay. Carter had some of his greatest days against the Spartans, and there is no reason to think that Allen Pinkett, Greg Bell, and company cannot do the same. The Spartans have an inexperienced defensive line, which should mean plenty ofgaping holes for Irish backs to go marchhing through. If the running game hogs down, Blair Kiel has shown that he is quite capable of moving the Irish via the pass. Last week, I questioned whether the offense could move the .ball. This week, the offense :).':Jould move the hall. 
Loose Ends ...Backup quarterback Scott Grooms suffered a fractured collarbone in the Purdue game. Steve Beuerlein will replace him as holder as well as the No.2 quarterback slot ...Former Pittsburgh Steeler great Steve Furness is helping his former mentor as an assistant coach at \1ichigan State. Perles was the defensive line coach for Pittsburgh's Super Bowl teams ...Spartan halfback Hohhy \1orse is the son of Jim \1orsc, who captained the 19';6 Irish as a halthack ...Hiawathha Fransisco and Ralf \1ojsiejcnko were first­team members on the Tampa Tribune all-name team. Mississippi's Pearl Harbour (no kidding) was the top name on the squad. 
Pick ofthe Week ...This weekend serves up plenty of action in 
minor sports, hut the team that needs your support the most is Sandy 
VanSiager's Irish volleyball team. The Irish have struggled to a 1-10 
start, hut four ofthose losses were to top twenty teams. The saddest 
part ofthis story is the tremendous decrease in attendance between 
Notre Dame's home opener and last Monday's contest against St. 
Francis. The Irish return to the ACC Pit on Saturday morning at I0:30 
a.m. against Southwestern \1.ichigan, and these young ladies would really enjoy a noisy, supponive crowd to cheer them on. 
There is quite a bit ofyoung talent on this club, and they seem to he ready to go on a winning streak. Freshmen Karen Sapp, Kathy .\1cKeown, and \1ollie \1erchant are exciting players and seem to blend in well with proven performers Josie Maternowski and Mary 
Jo Hensler. The Irish seem ready to destroy some people, and Satur­day just might be the day. 



