-----------~----------------------------­

Parietals violations punishment being studied by Judicial Council 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY but he should not expect miracles. cil. "I think the fact that we're News Staff "We're only going to examine the handling the parietal issue is a boost present policy, not necessarily at-to the council's credibility. Last year 
Parietal regulations should be ex­tempt to change it," Gleason added. we would not have been able to amined by the Judicial Council "Brian Callaghan doesn't tell us what handle such an issue because we rather than the Student Senate to do. If this committee decides lacked the organization." according to Bob Gleason, Judicial there's a better alternative, then 
Gleason also cited the Judicial
Council Coordinator. we'll pursue it. I agree, though, with Council's Workshop early inFollowingStudent Body President Brian that parietal regulations have November and the increase in atten­
Briar Callaghan's statement at a Stu­to be looked at." 
dence at council meetings asdent Senate meeting that the univer­Gleason said the committee will evidence of the council's new lease
sity's present policy ofexpulsion for proceed with caution because "we on life. The workshop was attendedparietal violations is too strict, might be opening a can of worms. 
by about 100 people.
Gleason created a committee to This whole thing might backfire. We study the matter. might end up getting more students Dave McAvoy, student senator 
At last night's council meeting, kicked out ofschooL" from the third district, attended last Gleason explained the council's Some rectors, Gleason indicated, night's meeting and gave the council decision to assume jurisdiction and don't report all parietal violations. his support. ''I'm interested in address the "hot" issue of parietals. He said last year only a small number making the judicial council the third Gleason said, "Brian's position is that ofthese violations resuhed in expul­branch of srudent government with the present punishment is too dras­sion. "If we raise the issue, the rec­e'iual power," he said. tic. Callaghan suggested the stu­tors might be less willing to use their Gleason also said, "Some people dents involved be moved offcampus own discretion," Gleason said. believe in confrontation, hut I don't instead ofexpelled. I told him that if The creation of the Special Com­We'll examine the present punish­anyone is going to look into parietals mittee on Parietals is viewed by ment for parietals and reccommend I think it's theJudicial Council. I said Gleason as the latest step in restor­possible aternatives to the ad­we'll handle it. We'll study the issue, ing credibility to the Judicial Coun-ministration." 

Heineken rescued from kidnappers 
Associated Press they had no word from the kidnap­freed in a perfectly executed opera­pers for two days after the ransom tion last night." AMSTERDAM, Netherlands was delivered. The 5 a.m. rescue raid or: the 
Police rescued kidnapped mil­At a news conference, police said warehouse climaxed three weeks of lionaire brewer Alfred Heineken and the two victims had been im­negotiations with the abductors, his chauffeur in a pre-dawn raid on
Modern dance? prisoned in separate cells hidden be­that began with a written ransom an isolated warehouse Wednesday, hind a false wall in the warehouse. demand dropped on the steps ofThe
A police officer struggles to subdue an unidentified woman in 
and arrested 24 suspects in three Police said the rescued men were Hague central police station the
Wamngton, England, who was one of4,500 printers picketing a 
cities. given clean clothes and immediately night ofthe kidnapping.
non-union newspaper plant. Many British newspapers have been 
Aransom reported to be as high as taken to Heineken's heavily guarded Authorities ultimately paid the
shut down since last week by the nationwide strike. 
$11.6 million was paid Monday, but villa in the seaside town of ransom via complicated instructions police said at least part of it was Noordwijk, about 20 miles from given by telephone, and cassette recovered from the homes of Amsterdam, for a reunion with their recording and notes dropped at sites

WSND acquires new 
suspects. families. scattered around the Netherlands. The 60-year-old chairman of the Doderer, long-time personal Police refused to say how much Heineken Brewery and his chauffeur chauffeur to Heineken, has worked ransom was involved, but Dutch

recording equipment 

Ab Doderer, 57, were found alone, for the family brewery for 40 years. newspapers have widely reported it manacled to a wall and clad only in He was grabbed by three gunmen amounted to the equivalent of Sl 0 
ByJOHN NEBLO from Audio Specialists, an audio pajamas in an unheated building in when he tried to help Heineken million to S11.6 million. 

News Staff equipment outlet in South Bend 

an industrial park near the harbor. juring the Nov. 9 abduction outside Simultaneous police raids in theWSND is currently looking for a They were cold but unharmed, of­the brewery headquarters. suburban village ofZwanenburg, theWSND radio, Notre Dame's stu­grant with which to purchase the 
ficers said. A statement issued by the port city of Den Helder and else­dent run radio station, has aquired S2000 device. 
Police, who had kept watch on the brewery and families ofthe two men where in Amsterdam netted policenew sophisticated recording equip­Paul Matwiy, an unofficial WSND 

park after receiving an anonym0"~ said. "There is enormous joy that 24 kidnap suspects -all related to ment in an attempt to upgrade its recording producer, said the digital tip two weeks ago, raided it when Heineken and Doderer have been each other.
programming quality. The device, a recorder will allow the station to digital recording processor, allows "make recordings of a quality un­the station to make near perfect surpassed anywhere in the country recordings of live musical perfor­using state-of-the-art recording mances. technology." WSND has already 
The digital recorder, used the recorder to record the Glee manufactured by the Nakamichi 
see RECORDER page 6 
Corp. ofJapan, is on loan to WSND 
Computer purchase set for the near future 
By STEPHEN REIDY mainframe computer for the Computing Center and the new touch-tone dormitory telephones. 
The University will acquire a large Both are to be installed during number ofpersonal computers from Christmas break. the Apple Computer Company in 

News Staff 
The touch-tone phont:s will the near future, according to Assis­
enable individuals with personal tant Provost for Computing Richard 
computers to plug into the Spencer. 
mainframe system through the use While tht: details ofthe settlement 
ofa modem rt:main under a non-disclosure "The equipment here is not large clause in the University's contract enough to handle the load at with the firm, the agreement present," explained Director of the represents a culmination of several 
Computing Center james Wruck in yt:ars of planning and negotiations 
an interview with the The Observer for a campus-wide computer earlier this semester. "The system is networking system, explained Spen­
five years old. and we are faced with cer. the problem that m any con­


stituencies on campus will want per­

He continued that the personal Advanced computer technology is combined with 100 Digital Master Processor. The unit is now being computers are only part of a plan everyday stereophonics in this newMalcamichi DMP-used to improve recording at WSND.
sonal comput~rs in the future," he involving a new IBM 3033 
added. 

The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1983-page 2 

Golden Dome no more than shine of orange-colored light 
In. Brief 

Herbert T. Juliano, research assistant in Notrc Dame's Sports Information Officc, has been selectcd bv thc ex­
ecutive board of the l!nitcd States Olympic Committee tQ. s-:rve on tht· public relations-public information committee. The selcction was announccd by William E. Simon, commitrce president. Juliano also serves as vice chairman of the Olympic committee's education coundl with specific responsibility to plan, initiate: and develop a National Olympic Information and Research Center, complete with a museum and hall offame at Colorado Sprjngs, CO. Earlier this year, Juliano attendcd the lntcrnational Olympic Acadcmy in Greece wht·rt· he disc·ussed violence in sports before representatives of 36 nations. He was invited !t> join the International Committee for Frur 
Play with headquarters in Paris. He has also introduccd a resolution to thc Olympic committtee to promotePeace Through Olympism, a proposal that is currently under considcration. -The Observer 
Notre Dame security officers are investigating a rcport ofa man who exposed himselfin the area ofthe O'Hara-Grace Townhouses at I0:4S p.m. Monday. Two residents of thc complex described him as white, six fcct tall, IHO pounds and having dark hair covering his cars. -The Ohsen,er 
SpaceJab's ast:rtMlallts created brilliant flashes of 
blue light yesterday by sending bursts of ionized gas and powerful clectron beams streaking out into the blackness ofspace. Earlier, the crew turned tht· laboratory, carricd in the shuttle Columbia's cargo hay, into a mini-factory by firing up three powerful furnaces to melt and mix metal samples and create exotic alloys impossible to make on Earth. And in a test to see how hum'!nS adapt to weightlessness, mission spedalist Robert Parker endured tht· torture ofhaving warm air hlown into his cars while a television camera took pictures ofhis eyes. The series of blue flashes came from an experiment developed by Tatsuzo Ohayashi. a llniversity of Tokyo researcher. The device sends out ionized argon gas at the same time it discharges beams of dn·trons. This produces a reaction seen as light. Researchers said the expt·rirnt·nt will provide clues to the envdopt· of magnetic fields and charged particles that exists around the Earth. -AP 
The Louisiana attorney gcnt·ral's omcc. which oJKl" rukd that roostt-rs an· not animals, now maintajns that al· ligators art· domt·sticatnl fish. Biology tt·xthooks da.,sify alligators as rt·ptilt-s. llowever. in Louisiana, they come under the legal definition of fish. according to an opinion matk puhlic yesterday. Agriculture Commissiont·r Bob Odom had asked Attorne~· General William (;ustt· whethl'f the state Market Commission can knd money to a farmer for processing alligator meat and hides. Yes, said the opinion by stall" attorney Kenneth 0. Ortq~o. The commission can lend mom·y to plants that pron·ss farm products, including livestock, Or· tt·go's ruling sajd, which wt·nt on to say the tkfinition of livestock included "domt·stil'ated 11sh." The law defines domesticated fish as those raised on fish f;n-ms, and further defines fish as "all finfish, crus­taceans, frogs, turtles and other living aquatic resources which have a sort or otht·r economic value." -AP 
Young men who hitchhike at night _on ma;or 
highway~ hctwt-en Indianapolis and Chicago are more hkcly the prey in a string of homost·xual-rclated murders than are homoM·xuals. Indianapolis police say Initially, polke thought the link lll"tWl't'n tht· slayer and the I~ vktims found in Illinois ami In· diana wa.' tht· gav community bt·causc· many of the victims were known homoscxuah or hustkrs. Howt·ver. police developed the new protlk htTau~t· ~onll' of tht• highway killer's victims were not homosexuals. an investigator told the Indianapolis Star. Police also now tlworil.t" tht· slaver lured his victims with a st·xual proposition, otkrinf~ them eithe~ S100 in cash or pladdyl. a hypnotic sleep· inducing depn·s~ant prescribed f(Jr insomnia, said the investigator who asknl not to IK identitkd. Police said people ingesting placidyl ht'l"Omt· physically weak through loss of musde response. wh~ch V\-ould explain why the victims have shown a lack of defensive 
wounds. -AI'  
Of Interest · ·­·. •  ·. .•  
Father James  Burtchaell will  ce~t-brate  a  

nwruorial Mass for Mudent Jim Feidcr. a student who died several week~ ago. The mass will be said on Sunday. Dec. 4. at ·1:)0 p.m. in the chapd of Farlt-y hall. -The Ohsen'£'1" 
Every Monday, Tuesday and wednt"sday during Advent tht·rt' will be a prayer for peace at 12: IS p.m. in the Center for Soda! Conc"Crns. -The Ohsen•er 
Off-canipUS students are sponsoring a dinner tonight at 7 in till' LaFortune Ballroom. Tht· dinner will include a sdection of appetizers, entret.-s, and desserts. Entrees of the buffet llinncr will indudt· roast bed and lasagna. Til"kets, priced at five dollars each wilt ht· sold at tht· door. -The Ohsen•£'1" 

Partly cloudy today. with highs in tht· low \Os. -The f)/)sen•er 
-~--'-~...:.· . " •. ' .• ' ..... < ·~ 

j 


recruiting violators Clem· 
wrapped in a veil of Marian son, S.M.ll. and Arizona devotion. For many, to State. criticize Faust is to attack In his Obseroer editorial the Mother ofGod. 
Tuesday, James Carberry, a While Faust did not make former member of the the final decision to go to Faculty Board, said that in the bowl, he didn't exactly accepting the bid, "We, at say he'd rather stay in South Notre Dame, arc now about Bend for the holidays. to lose our innocence in in­Neither Corrigan nor ex­tercollegiate football. We've ecutive vice president Ed· entered the bordello. mund Joyce have Patently, we'll now be as­shouldered the blame -in­signed to play anyone, stead, they point to a 14-1 I anywhere, in any money· vote by seniors to accept the making post-season ·bid as the ultimate con­'circus."' sideration. With few excep­
In the fullest sense of the tions, Notre Dame term, Notre Dan1e has "sold administrators have never out." 

Let's begin with a prayer: 
Hail Liberty Bowl, capacityfilled, Notre Dame football is with you, Blessed are you among bowlgames, and blessed is ourportion, yourproceeds. Ho~v Liberty Bowl, contributorpar excellence, pay us our advance now and the remainder at kickoff 

The acceptance of the Liberty Bowl bid last week is an all-time low in the history ofcollege sports. The deci­sion affected not only Notre Dame football, but all col­lege programs because the the idyllic crusader for intercollegiate honesty is a hypocrite. 
No longer is Notre Dame a shining example of frurplay and honesty. Instead, because of a closed door meeting of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, Notre Dame now sits at the same table as N.C.A.A. 
Some argue the bowl bid should he accepted because minority students will benefit from the proceeds. Such thinking, however, is racist indeed. 
The University has put itself in quite an awkward situation if it truly supports minority scholarships. Are minorities, then, only to receive help if Notre Dame football teams go to a bowl? What kind ofa commitment is that to minority students? 
Actual howl proceeds will total little more than S6SO.OOO. And Athletic Director Gene Corrigan admits much of that will go to travel and lodging expenses for the team and band. 

Is lily-white Notre Dame helping minority students when it sits atop a S200 million endowment? 
Another sad product of the bowl hid is the way in which died-in-the-wool Notre Dame fans are literally caught in the all too familiar game of the "fair·weather 
fan." 
_The_Obs.er.Yer__ 
Dt•sign Editor........................ Carolt.-\Jarkc Dt•sign Assistant .. Chris and Maurcc..·n 1"1'/J<'Sellers............... .. ......... Vic an<lllill Neu's Editor .......... ................................. Tom Copl" Editor............................ ................ l>an Sports Copy Editor ............. Marc Ramirez l:diloria/s ·La)•out .. .................. Tom Small .'liD Day Editor ................... Melinda Moore .\MC Day Editor............... Mary Ann Poner Photographer.......................................... Pete Guest A.ppetlrances ... Maripat, ."t chccst·s· 
teaks. Coa<·h Weehay. Marty Feldman, Amy Stephan, Jeff Iliumh. The final step in the Proc..·ess, 2 incredibly sc:xy stains, and the now c:x-markc..·ting 4ucen. 
Quote ofIbe Day I mav he apalbt!li<", /mil don "I mrt!! 
H,,.. Carole. "lbat"s}AGGE"D! 
.\'omt~ people call it a one night statu/, llut U'<' can call it paradise. Duran Duran 
I'm -gotng home, I bal'l! no cnmputt't" skills! 
The ObMrver (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday througn rnoay and on home football Saturdays. &xcept dunng exam and vacahon penods The ObMrver IS pubhshed by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The O~rver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The ObMrver IS a member of The A..oclated Pre... All 
reproduCtion nghts are reserved 

_.._.__________~ 
Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursday 
With high held Catholic guilt, fans are cast into the ultimate dilemma-ifthey do not support Notre Dame football when it falls flat on its face, they consider them· selves only "sunshine patriots." Many feel they should in good conscience celebrate the supposed joy of the Liberty Bowl bid. 
In this case, however, the true fan of Notre Dame must cry out agrunst such a perversion ofprinciples. Notre Dame has manipulated such guilt to the point 
where many concerned persons will not speak out against the bowl bid, be­cause Gerry Faust is 
cared about what students sajd before this incident. Why then do administrators fall back upon a student vote now? Are they trying to hide something? 
The Liberty Bowl docs not give a damn about Notre Dame's now-tarnished commitment to its principles or its record. 
It only wants Notre Dame because ofthe University's football tradition, and the money its fans will bring to Memphis. 
In referring to Notre Dame's decision to accept the hid, a Liberty Bowl representative told Ray Sons of the Chicago Sun-Times last week, "They are a great attrac· tion at 6-S, or whatever they arc." 
Indeed, whatever are we? 


--gQowetrg fptr aQQ occogio"g" 
Come in and Browse 

327lincolnway 232-3354· 
HOLIDAY SALE 20°/o to 50°/o off everything I 
except cosmetics, beauty salon, millinery, and shoes 
You'll find the perfect holiday look at fantasti savings. Why not do all of your holidat shopping at 
ROBERTSON'S! Direct bus route on the half hour 
---------'---'-----~--"-.--. ''·-"-'-~ ._ ._, ·'· 
The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1983-page 3 
Survey reveals desires for campus changes 
ByJIM STONE 
News Staff 
Improved student fucilities in the LaFortune Center and more diver­sified campus activities were among the most requested campus im­provements by students in a survey conducted by the the Student Uni­on. 
"Our one objective, is to make people more involved in Student Union commissions and more aware of them," explained survey or­ganizer Jim Hennigan. Another goal of the poll was to come up with some ideas for a proposd Student Union night which is being planned for Dec. 8, he continued. 
The survey, which was contrived and distributed by the senior com­misioners of the Student Union, received more than 400 hundred responses, Hennigan explained. The Ombudsman office compiled writ­ten requests as well as phone sur­veys. 
Other ideas from the survey included; a campus restaraunt, a north quad laundry, more recent films, and career days. 
Hennigan reported that the responses revealed "a general ig­norance" about current Student Uni­on commissions. "I suppose what we're involved in is more of an awareness campaign of what the committees do," Hennigan said. 
The committee will be presenting the Student Union's operations to in­terested students on student Union night, which Hennigan said will be a "recruiting night" to garner interest for the commissions. He added that commissioners will have to "set goals to use more people and to ta:.:e a more active role in delegating authority." 
As a follow-up, January 18 has been designated the preliminary date for a leadership workshop in· tended to "overhaul" the commis­sions, Hennigan added 

Bus strikers consider new contract proposal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Assisted by government mediators, a umon representing striking Greyhound Bus Lines workers considered making a contract counter-proposal yesterday in a quest to end a 28-day walkout. 
Meanwhile, a Greyhound spokes­woman said the company would resume bus service in nine more states by the end of the year. Greyhound, which served 48 states before the strike began Nov. 2, resumed limited service in 27 states on Nov. 17. 
One day after Greyhound managers in Phoenix, Ariz., vowed to "go forward full bore" with hiring replacements for the some 12,700 strikers, the Amalgamated Council of Greyhound Local Unions was secluded in a downtown hotel here reassessing its position in the labor dispute. 
There was no early indication whether the strategy session, at­tended by federal mediator Sam Franklin, would lead to a revised uni­on negotiating stance or new direct talks between between union and Greyhound representatives. 
Later, Kay McMurray, director of the Federal Mediation and Concilia­tion Service, conferred with union leaders. As he left the hotel, repor­ters asked him whether the strike was going to end soon. He replied: "there's always room for opitimism," but the mediator refused to elaborate on that remark. 
One union official said members of the ATU bargaining council were continuing to meet among them­selves late in the day "to find out where we stand, and to find out what it's going to take to get them (Greyhound negotiators) back to the bargaining table." 
The strategy sessions were likely to continue today, said the official, who cited the union's self-imposed news blackout as the reason for his speaking anonymously. 
Sources fumiliar with the strike, who also declined to be identified publicly, said it was unlikely that federal mediators would summon Greyhound officials to the nation's capital for new negotiations in the absence of a new proposal by the union. 
John W. Teets, Greyhound's chair­man, had said Tuesday that "we have absolutely no optimism that a settle­ment will be reached." 
Teets, speaking to reporters at Greyhound's corporate headquar­ters in Phoenix, said the company might sell parts of the bus line as in­dividual franchises if it failed to make sufficient profit. 
The union's overwhelming rejec­tion of the company's latest offer ­a modified wage giveback proposal lowering pay cuts from 9.5 percent to 7.8 percent -left Greyhound with no choice but to hire replace­ments for the strikers, Teets said. 
The Amalgamated Transit Union called the strike of its 12,700 mem­bers on Nov. 2, and there have been no negotiations to ·;ettle the dispute >ince Nov. I 7. 


LIBERTY BOWL 
NOTRE BOSTON
ver.'tus
DAME COLLEGE 
*Jll'r fh-'r"on'Q~J~d

Motoreoac!l'•. H.otel, 
(.,,u t·,;r di>tJhlt·

Tic kt•l, Pregdmt' 
nr ,;n~ft .. r.dh·. dir



$184* 
Pdrty dnd morl' ,1\dil.thh•. 
December 28 thru December 30 
For Reservations Call ... ~source 
236-2656 
-.aank 
239-(7089) (6682) Badin Hall 284-2607(Haggar College Center) 

Striking Greyhound workers huddle around a makeshift stove in Cincinnati, Ohio. Members ofthe Amalgamated Transit Union rejected Greyhound's 

Mardi Gras to feature jazz band 
las test contract offer by an overwhelming margin. See 
ByMARY PACE 
News Staff 
A live jazz band and New Orleans­style food will be featured at this 
year's  campus-wide  Mardi  Gras  
celebration,  according  to  event  
coordinator Karen Klocke.  

This is in addition to the twleve· hour dance·a-thon which has been a part of the celebration for the past two years. Klocke said she hopes these changes will bring back some ofthe Mardi Gras spirit that has been lost over the oast two vears. 
The event is scheduled to begin on Friday, March 2. Also being planned in the Stepan Center is a fac­simile of famous dixieland jazz showcase, Preservation Hall, which will feature a live jazz band and New Orleans-style cuisine. 
Some of the t.vents being con­sidered include hall-sponsored booths in Stepan Center which would be decorated to depict scenes from Bourbon Street in the French Quarter of New Orleans, home ofthe original Mardi Gras. 
The dance-a-thon is scheduled to 
be held on the following Saturday 
from 1 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Up until two years ago, the Mardi Gras celebration featured a casino in 

Stepan Center which included roulette wheels, craps, blackjack, and other games. In 1981, however, the bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend banned gambling in this diocese. The dance-a-thon replaced the casino following this decision. The proceeds of both events have gone to charity. 
The first organizational meeting of this year's Mardi Gras committee will be held on Thursday, December 8 at 7 p.m. in the Little Theatre in LaFortune. Students interested in helping out with any aspect of the event are invited to the meeting. 

Bazaar to aid Christmas shoppers 
Finalized plans for the bazaar
BYEDWARDNOLAN 
were reported at last night's Saint Mary's Programming board meeting Saint Mary's annual Christmas by event chairperson Mary Sue bazaar might be the answer for the 
News Staff 
Dunn. worried students who wonder how 
The bazaar will run from 10 a.m. they will ever complete their until 5 p.m. Monday through Friday Christmas shopping while preparing next week in the Le Mans hall lobby, for semester finals. according to Dunn. She continued 
A IIIRACLEI 
Thars what it was! September 20, 1980 when Harry Oliver's miraculous 51 yd. field goal beat Michigan 29-27 as time ran out!! It hadtobe•mlr•cleiHowelse could that headwind suddenly stop an instant before Harry O's kick?!! 
A wild Irish moment! And now you can hear it just as it happent.•d! How? It's on cassette in one of the finest tapes of great Notre Dame moments and heroes you've ever heard! You'll actually hear the immortal Knufe Roclrne •• Leon H•rt• •Andr Pllner•• Joe How•rd •• 11 great stories in all! Plus thrilling NO fight songs:. All for only $6.95. 
You c•nnof lose. Not satisfied for any reason? Just return the tape and we'll return your money immedi­ately. We're that sure you'll love it! The response ll•s been f•nfllsflc sodofl'tmiss oufl Ordernow•• for gra•fmom•nts•ndlteroes "In the Irish Tradition!" 
Please rush ___cass~tte(s) of "In the Irish Tradition!" Enclosed is $6.95 per tape plus .50¢ postage/handling. Michigan residents add 4% (.30¢). Name Address 
City State___Zip,_____ 

Productions P.O.Box 1010 Rochester Ml4806. 
that there will be approximately 80 
booths at this year's event which is almost double the number ofbooths last year. Many Saint Mary's halls, classes and clubs will operate booths and sell gift items. A five-dol­lar registration fee per booth will be collected and donated to the United Way Drive. A portion of the each booth's profits is customarily given to the campaign as well, she con­cluded. 
Other topics discussed during the meeting included the children of Saint Mary's faculty, who will be treated by the board to an afternoon at the movies. Invitations for this event were incorrectly dated December 14, but the event will be held this Sunday. 
The board decided that a last class day celebration on Dec. 14 was in order. Following classes on that day the College's students are welcome to stop in the Haggar Student Cen­ter, where Christmas cookies will be served. The event is designed to provide a break before the start of final exams. 
Also announced at the meeting were plans for the second five-hall dance, which is scheduled for Jan. 
21. Saint Mary's will also host a Keenan Review Party on Feb. 3. 

The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1983 -page 4 
Gemayel expected to ask Reagan to modify Lebanese-Israeli pact 
Associated Press 

political concessions from Lebanon. Caught between the fundamen­Israel would get joint patrols in the tals! Shiites, Christians and Pales­south to guard against reinfiltration tinians in the south and takingBEIRUT, Lebanon ~ Six months 
of Palestinian guerrillas there, limits casualties almost every day, Israel after the troop withdrawal agree­
on the size of the Lebanese army in has already been forced to uni­ment ht·tween Israel and Lebanon 
the region, and a "liaison" office in laterally withdraw fom the central was signed, the Reagan administra­
Beirut. mountains to a line beginning at the tion's single: foreign policy "success" 
In a separate, private ag1..::cmcnt port of Sidon. There arc strong in­in the Middle: East this year has 
with the United States, however, Is­dications, as the attacks and am­become an obstacle in attempts to 
rael said it would not implement the bushes continue, that Israel will .:nd the bloodshed in Lt·hanon. 
withdrawal unless Syria agreed to withdraw another step to the south "We art· at an impasse," said one 
pull out at the same time. in the spring.senior Lebanese official last week. 
That is not happening. Syrian With political opposition to the "We negotiated the agreement in 
President Hafcz Assad condemned occupation of southern Lebanon good faith and with good intentions, 
the Lebanese-Israeli pact, cl<riming it growing in Israel, many Lebanese (hut) it cannot he impkmented in 
threatens his country and makes and Americans believe it would be it~ present form'' 
Lebanon a virtual Israeli puppet. too costly for the Israelis to stay very The May I7 agreement provides 
Lebanese leftist and opposition long.for an Israeli troop withdrawal from 
groups rallied behind the Syrians. Syria, which refused to even talk l.l·hanon if Syrian forces also leave. 
They and Assad are insisting that Is­about the pact or a possibleSo far, they have not. 
rael withdraw without conditions withdrawal from Lebanon for six "It's a race between politics and 
and before the Syrians. months, sent its foreign minister, total collapse." the Lt·hanese official 
Israeli officials have warned they Abdul-Halim Khaddam, to Beirut said. ''I'm beginning to panic, begin­
might further cut off the already is­earlier in November. Itstill adamant­ning to think wt· havt·n't mittcd to 
olated south from the rest of the ly opposes the pact, but seems to be positions in the mountains. 
country and settle in for a long stay if giving hints that some compromiseLebanese President Amin the pact is canceled. The United might be reached. 
Gemaycl meets today with Presi­States, in turn, maintains it stands be­But the threats of renewed dent Rt·agan in Washington, and it is hind the pact as the best either side violence are multiplying.

cxpn:ted that Gemaycl will plead 

can get, and with advantages for 
The mountain civil war thatfor modifications in the agreement. 

both. 
erupted in September still simmers,<it·mayd is hoping that the new 

There are some small signs of 
with shelling exchanges every day.
li.S. chief Middle East negotiator, change.

Donald Rumsfdd, has come up with 


Things are beginning to return to normal in Grenada after the American invasion oftbe island. Here, Army Capt.jeffMillergives change to a young Grenadan boy. 
some new ideas on his just com­pleted swing around the region, and that Reagan can be persuaded that some accommodation with Syria is essential. But he's unlikely to get any encouragement. 
R~:agan and Isradi Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, who concluded a Washington visit on Tuesday, reaf­firmed their support for the May I7 pact. 

"The only basis for a settlement of tht· Lt'baneM· problem is the full im­plementation of the May I7, I98.~ agreement in all its parts," Shamir said before leaving Washington. 
Tht· pact has become a liability for Lebanon -a major problem in reconciliation talks among this country's warring factions and a hlockadt· to even beginning talks with Syria on the eventual removal of 50,000 Syrian soldit'rs from north Lebanon and the eastern Bakka Val­ley. 
The agreemt·nt calls for lsrad to withdraw its occupation army from the south in return for security and 
COUNSELINE A service to the NO community 239-7793 HOURS: 4-lOpm Mon-Thurs. Counseltn~ 15 a free. conftdenttal telephone servrce thai offers professtonally taped matertals that cover a wtde vartelv o.f..~tudent concerns  
TAPENO TITlE I Fr~endsh•p Bu•ldtnQ 1 Df!ilhnQ wtlh Construt:ll'le CIIIICtsm H De.thnQ wtlh An~;~er 9 Understanrtmg Jpatous~ .ttnd Huw to Deal w1th 11 tO H11w To sa., NO 18 DatmQ Skllt!o )() Anuety and Po'\S•ble Ways to Cope Wtlh II 12 How to Dfhtl Nllrllontme~c: 33 How to Hanclle Fear~ )., Butld•nQ '\ell Est~em A Conlldent.e )7 AP.Iaunq E•t>~CISPto 18 CopmQ wtlh Stress 39 FtHTt<tltt StH Rote ChdnQP.'\ ano Stress 44 U~a1n1nQ tO Arrept Yourself 61 Wh.at IS ThP.IdD'Y & How IO Use II 83 How toCopp w•tr-d Rruken Rctat,unsh,p 8!'1 Understandmo Gt11'1l 90 HP.IplnQ a F nl'!nd 160 farty s1ons ol an Alcohol Pr<~blem 161 Aespontuble Dects•ons About 402 Sell A~SI.'II1veness •0 1 Whatts Depresston 432 How to Deal Wtlh DepresSIOn 411 n-:;·-­~ltl Becom1ng tnCJependf"nt 110m Parents ·H9 Oeat1ng w1Th Atcohohr Parents 49 t Su1C1dal CIISIS 492 Recognlli''IQ Su1c1dal Potential tnOther' 493 HetplllQ Someone tn a Su1t1dal C11s1s  
Counsellne Is a completely anonymous serv.ce offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9·5 ··CLIP AND SAVE··.  


THE aE YOJ WAIT Fffi! 

14 



CHRISTMAS ~LE 
TOMORROW ONLY! 
FRID\Y DECEMBER 2 
SHOP AYRES SCOTTSDALE MALL AND UNIVERSITY PARK 9 A.M. to 11 P.M. 
YOU WON'T WANT TO MISS THE SENSATIONAL SAVINGS DURING OUR BIGGEST ONE-DAY SALE OF THE YEAR! 
BRING YOUR AYRES CHARGE CARD! 

LOOK FOR OUR FREE SHUTTLE BUSES! TO SCOTTSDALE MALL FROM 11 A.M. TO 11 P.M. TO UNIVERSITY PARK FROM 11 A.M. TO 11:30 P.M. 
The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1983-page 5 
Andropov illness slows Soviet political scene 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -The usual autumn government and party meetings have not been scheduled yet this year -evidently because President Yuri V. Andropov is too ill to of­ficiate. The strangely quiet political scene has led to speculation about who is running the Soviet Union. 
Soviet sources have indicated in 
past weeks that the country is on a 
kind ofautomatic pilot. 
Western diplomats, asking to remain anonymous, say they think day-to-day foreign policy decisions have been taken over by the military, led by Marshal Dmitri F. Us­tinov. 

The 69-year-old Andropov, his health a question mark since last spring, has not been seen in public since Aug. 18. 
• With so many uncertainties, the focus of attention now is on the failure of authorities here to an­nounce a meeting of the rubber stamp national parliament, the Supreme Soviet. 
This is a country where things 
tend to happen according to plan 
and tradition, and the Parliament 
session and meeting of the Com­
munist Party Central Committee ar~ 
always scheduled by mid­
November. 
The Soviet constitution says the 
legislature must meet twice a year. 
So tar this year it has met only once, 
in june, when Andropov was named 
president, consolidating his ab­
solute hold on power. 
Tradition holds that its meetings are announced 30 days in advance, and Associated Press records dating back two decades show that every session has been preceded by a 30­day notice. 

Those records also show that since 1962 no regular parliamentary 
session has ever been held later than Dec. 18. That was in 1974. Last year the Parlian1ent met on Dec. 22, but that was a special occasion to mark the 60th anniversary ofthe founding of the Soviet Union. 
. Soviets insist that a meeting ofthe Parliament will come in the second half of December. The country still has no formally adopted economic plan or budget for the coming year and those documents are the busi­ness ofthe Parliament. 
Andropov should attend the par­liamentary session as head of state. He reportedly is suffering from a heart and kidney condition and the latest rumors in Moscow say he has lost the ability to walk. Nothing, however, is known for certain about the state of his health. 
Tradition holds that the par­
liamentary sessions are preceded by 
a plenary session ofthe party Central 
Committee. 
At those sessions the ruling Polit­
buro makes top personnel changes 
and dictates the course of foreign 
and domestic policy. 
Unofficial records show 
Andropov's predecessor, Leonid I. 
Brezhnev, was never absent from 
public view for such a long period 
despite serious questions about his 
health dating from the mid-1970s. 
Andropov failed Nov. 5 to attend 
the Kremlin meeting marking the 
Bolshevik Revolution, or the Nov. 7' 
military parade to celebrate the 
event. Brezhnev, despite poor 
health, was at last year's parade and 
stood two. hours in freezing weather 
three days before he died of a heart 
attack. 

Geneva. The Soviet delegation has left the medium­range missile reduction talks to protest the American deployment ofmissiles in Europe. 

Reagan eliminates human rights from El Salvador aid consideration 
Associated Press American citizens in El Salvador." voice vote Nov. 17, would revive a 
Speakes said that even without the law that tied continued military aid 
law, the administration would to El Salvador to a presidential find­
WASHINGTON President provide periodic reports to ing every six months that the Sal­Reagan, ignoring appeals from the Congress on the "political, vadoran government was making a State Department, yesterday killed economic and military situation in 
"concerted" effort to respect human

legislation that would have tied con­El Salvador." But he did not say that rigius, achieving progress on politi­tinued military aid for El Salvador to such reports would specifically in­cal and land reforms, trying to bringits progress on human rights and corporate the human rights issue. 
to justice the killers of eightland reform. Earlier, officials who spoke on Americans, and seeking an end toReagan doomed the bill through a condition they not be identified said the civil war. 
"pocket veto" -allowing a mid­Reagan's objections stemmed from night deadline for his signature to his opposition to congressional con­
Under that Jaw, which expired
lapse. straints on his authority to conduct Sept. 30, the administration certifiedEven so, White House spokesman foreign policy and from concern four times over the past two yearsLarry Speakes said the administra­that the legislation would undercut that the Salvadoran government mettion was "firmly committed to the the U.S. commitment to help El Sal­the requirements for military aid.
orotection of human rights, vador in its fight against leftist guer­Congress has approved $64 millioneconomic and political reforms, the rillas. 
in military aid for El Salvador in fiscal holding of elections and progress in The bill, sent to Reagan by the 1984, which began Oct. 1.

prosecuting the cases of murdered Senate on a virtually unanimous 
WE BEAT  PRICES  
ALL  GOODTHRU  
ADVERTISED PRICES  DEC. 3,1113  
BRING IN THEIR AD  South Bend Ave. Store Only  
BEER BALLANTINE BEER 4.99 CASE BUDWEISER 7.79 CASE CANS BUSCH 6.99 CASE MILLER LITE 7.89 CASE HEINEKEN 14.99 6NI! STROH & STROH LIGHT 7.39 CASE MEISTER BRAU 5.99 CASE  QUARTS OLD MILWAUKEE 6.99 BUDWEISER 8.99 KEGS STROH HALF BBL 28.38 OLD STYLE HALF BBL 26.99 OLD MILWAUKEE HALF BBL 24.99 MILLER LITE QUARTER BBL 19.99  LIQUOR INTRODUCING IIIQS ClWR BRANDS "Quality Products At Low Prices.. g••KINGS CELLAR BOURBON 1 .75 LITER KINGS CELLAR CANADtAN 1 .75 LITER 9"899KINGS CELLAR BLEND 1 .75 LITER KINGS CELLAR RUM 1 .75 LITER 8" J19KINGS CELLAR VODKA 1 .75 LITER 899KJNGS CELLAR GIN 1 .75 LITER g••KINGS CELLAR TEQUILA 1 .75 LITER KAMCHATKA VODKA 1.7sllle• 7.39 SOUTHERN COMFORT 100°750ml 6.69 WINE KELLER GEISER 1som1 2.29 ANDRE CHAMPAGNES 750ml 2.29 LANCERS 1som1 2.99  


UNIYERSITI_OF CALENDAR NOTRE DAME 
;t," 
~,~I
"". r 
tf~u,..~ 

NOTRE DAME CALENDAR {Wall Size) Featuring 
13 Beautifu I "Campus Sights" Illustrations By Jack Appleton 
$6.95 
·f:{';;.
' ,, . i -" 
--· 
Club Fall Concert, the music faculty recital series, and the South Bend Symphony. Matwiy also plans to usc the rn·ordt·r this wn·k at the llniver­sity Orchestra ami Chorale's perfor­mance of llandd's "Messiah." 
The digital rt·cordcr is a computer which analyzes sound waves, translates tht·m into a series of hi­nary numht·rs. and then records them on a digital video tape. During playhal·k. th<: computt•r re-translates the numbers into the original sound waves, thus providing a ncar-perfect musical rt•production. As a rt:sult, distortion lcveb on digital record-


The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1983 -page 6 
• • .Recorder 
"Yule love working for THE OBSERVER production dept. next semester." 
Stop by the LaFortune office for an application and more info. 
~~\. .tlu. 

ings are an astonishing 200 times lower than traditional analog recordings. According to Audio Specialist manager Tom Spink, digi· 
tal recording is the first successful sound reproduction not to use the magnetic recording method pioneered by Marconi. 
Digital recording techniques are now being used to produce small ultra-thin laser disks which carry the musical content of a long playing record album. A last:r beam "reads" the digitally encoded disk, thus eliminating all the static, s<.:ratches, dust, and hiss which plague the 
continued/rom page I 
traditional record album. 

What does this mean to the listners of the ND-SMC ~··Jmmunity? According to Matwiy, "digital recording will allow the listeners to hear recorded music as if it were a live performance. These recordings should be of a quality higher than any record a listener could play on his stereo." 
Students interested in these specially recorded performances should tune in to WSND Saturday nights at 7 p.m. or check their WSND program guides. 
-On Sale At The Notre Dame Bookstore ­


-----~~~-~--------------------------------------------------, 

The Observer 

Murderer executed after 10 years in prison 
Associated Press 
STARKE. Fla. -Robert Sullivan, a convicted murderer who spent ten years on death row, was executed in Florida's electric chair Wednesday after reciting a psalm in tears and thanking PopeJohn Paul II for trying to save his life. 
Sullivan, 36, his blue eyes water­ing, sat in the oaken death chair, took a microphone and read in a clear voice from Psalm 62 written on a legal pad: "and in God alone is my soul at rest, because my hope comes from within." 
A black hood was placed over his head and the executioner, also wearing a black hood, threw a switch sending 2,000 volts of electricity through Sullivan's body for two minutes. 
Sullivan twitched, then was still. He was pronounced dead at 10:16 a.m., six minutes after Gov. Bob Graham gave the go-ahead for the execution, ending a week of frantic legal maneuvering that reached to the U.S. Supreme Court and won the condemned man a briefstay. 
~...,__. 

i!ii"''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''"''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''·'''·'·'·'·'''·'·'·'·''''''''''''''''''''''''''II 
.. 

.. I 

I 
I 
::~l "The Challenge Qf Peace lill 
11.• 

GQd's Prqmlse 8r Our RespQnse '' I 




II Mon~~~~~~~~~~ ;u~~ium8pm II 
~ ( 
~ ~ 
~ « !iii Sponsored by: Office of Campus Ministry ~~~~ 
~ ~ 
•~
~:=.~:=­·;:::::::::::::.:::::~:::::::::~:::~:~:::::::~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:~::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~~: 
Eight other Americans, all men, have been executed since the landmark decision by the Supreme Court to renew the death penalty. 
Sullivan, a Roman Catholic, spent ten years on death row and attempts by lawyers and death penalty foes, and ultimately the pope, carried on until the last moments ofhis life. 
"To all my peers on death row, despite what is about to happen to me, do not quit," Sullivan said. He also thanked the pope for "his per­sonal intervention asking that my life be spared." 
"I hold malice to none. May God bless us all," were his last words. 
Sullivan was sentenced to de::th for the April 9, 1973 robbery and murder of Donald Schmidt, an assis­tant manager at a Howard Johnson's restaurant in Homestead, "outh of Miami. 
Schmidt's credit cards and watch were found on Sullivan when he was arrested. Sullivan contended he was at a homosexual bar 40 miles away at the time of the murder and had wit­nesses to prove it. 
The body was shipped to Nashua, 
N.H. The whereabouts of his adoptive father, a Harvard-educated surgeon, and his mother, was un­known. The couple is divorced. 
Late Monday, a federal appeals court and later the Supreme Court, refused to spare Sullivan's life. A final appeal to the FloridaSupreme. Court and the federal appeals court, claim­ing electrocution constituted cruel and unusual punishment, was rejected in the morning. 
Graham, on an open telephone line with the prison, told Superin­tendent Richard Dugger that the last appeal had failed at 10:10 a.m. "There are no stays. God save us all," Graham said, as quoted by his general counsel, Sydney McKenzie. 
Vatican Radio reported the execu· tion without comment. 
Thursday, December 1, 1983 -page 7 

Washington with her attorney, james Bierbower. In­formation about her trial is in related article belou•. 
Jury begins deliberation in perjury trial of former EPA Chief Lavelle 
Associated Press 

obstructing a congressional inves­
tigation. 
Ifconvicted on all five counts, she 

faces a maximum penalty of2 5 years 
WASHINGTON -Rita Lavelle in prison. was accused of being a "victimizer" After bering closing arguments and defended as a "scapegoat" yes­and receiving instructions on the terday as a federal jury began law, the jury began its deliberations. deliberating criminal charges Jurors were sent home after more against the former Environmental than an hour, and will resume their 
Protection Agency official after an efforts to reach a verdict today. eight-day trial. Government prosecutors said 
Lavelle, former chief of the EPA's Lavelle wa.o;; trying to protect her S1.6 billion hazardous waste "big meal ticket" back to California clea!)up program, was indicted last when she allegedly lied repeatedly August on charges of perjury and · to Congress la.<>t February. 
Dominic's Hair WOMEN&MEN Styling 
Cutting Coloring Perms Blow Drying Tuesday-Friday 9 am-5pm Saturday 8am-2pm Closed Sun. & Mon. Evenings by Appointment 
272·8560 
51333 US 31N 3 mi. No. of Campus 
What Does the Student Union Record Store Have in Store for Me 
Clf/:.'APER PRICES...su,.14-.11•ff"-"""we,! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-!-6.50!Cum""""' 
J/1.991i51/ CUT-OUTS...s2.98-J5.98 GREAT SELECTION... Spnn..'""· Foxettw'"· s,..,,, 
.1'\iicks, Chrtstopher Cross. M(X)(}y Blues, Pat &nutur. Journey and 
many, manl' more ... 
A L S 0. . . r~:orded and blank tope.r uvuiluble. 

CONVENIENCE. .. TneNDSURecwd.\Welslu<ulw 
on rhe Mum Floor of LaFortune. Plus-ordt!red ulbunu rake only one week w urrio•e.' 


They said she was not a victim but a "victimizer" who used her EPA position secretly to tip off her for­mer employer, Aerojet-General Corp., and to help Republican politicians. 
Defense attorney James Bier­bower said Ms. Lavelle, the only EPA official to face criminal charges, had been made a "scapegoat" in a con­troversy surrounding the toxic waste program that eventually led to the resignation of former EPA ad­ministrator Anne M. Burford. 
While Lavelle dabbed tears from 
her eyes, Bierbower said she might 
have made some inaccurate state­
ments, but he blamed them on a 
faulty memory and not on any willful 
attempt to lie to Congress. 

She is charg~d with lying when she denied helping Republican can­didates and of lying about the date she first learned that Aerojet had dumped wastes at the Stringfellow Acid Pits in California. 
In his closing argument, prosecutor William Hendricks said Lavelle continued to handle the Stringfellow case because she wanted to "ingratiate" herself with her former company. 
Bierbower, in closing, said Lavelle's only crime was trying too hard to do her job. 
"Her work was her life and she cared about cleaning up America and helping the people," he said. "She came in and got things done and some of these longtime career people (at EPA) were not too happy with this hard-driving woman." 





Vieweoint 
Thursday, December 1, 1983-page 8 
Euromissile deployment: upping the ante 
Editor's note: This is the second in a two-part series examining the deph~yment of U.S. missiles in Western Europe. 
lkspite tht:ir provocative and threatening qualities, the new U.S. missiles beingdeployed in Europe :tre militarily superfluous. The United States has already targeted everything worth ~argeting in the Soviet Union with our .30,000 or so other warhead'>. • 
Michael L. Brennan 

And so it goes 
Then why deploy? To calm European kars of the United States "decoupling" from the defense of Europe, and to exhibit to the Soviet Union the political unity and resolve of the Atlantic Alliance. The issue has become a hattie hetweeen the superpowers for the hearts and minds of Europeans. 
The Alliance has held up under strain remarkably well thus far, but the consensus is disintegrating rapidly in the face of domestic politic.:al opposition in Europe. Nowhere is this more evident than in West Germany, the linchpin country. 
The opposition party. the Sodai-Democrats, voted overwhelmingly ( .3H.3 to 
14) against deployment last week, and polls 
indicate that 70 percent of West Germans are opposed to deployment. The final vote in the Bundestag followed party lines ( 286 to 226) in favor ofdeployment, but came after an em­bittered 13-hour debate. Thinking ahead, what happens if the Social-Democrats come into power after deployment? Will the missiles be sent back with no return address? 
Both Kohl and Thatcher were elected more on the basis of their domestic economic policies than on their pro-missile stances, and both are meeting stiff anti-missile opposition. The European peace movement, which may tum violt:nt, has scheduled major demonstra­tions for December 12, the fourth anniversary ofNATO's "dual-track" decision. 
In the now-defunct INF Talks, both sides were guilty of intransigence and propaganda ploys. It appears that the final Soviet offer, dis­mantling down to 120 SS-20s, was the most magnanimous and realistically acceptable proposal, yet it was rejected by the United States. 
Some Reagan critics have charged that the llnited States wanted deployment all along in order to regain nuclear superiority in Europe. Many think we used the INF Talks as a means of placating public opposition, and to make the Soviets appear as the villians. 
In deploying 572 new missiles, NATO will 
be committing itself to dependence upon this 
nuclear crutch in the event ofa westward con­ventional attack by the Soviet Union. Cheaper 

than conventional forces, nuclear weapons provide "more bang for the buck." 
The West European governments are happy to accept the missiles free ofcharge since they hesitate to increase defense expenditures in the face ofhigh unemployment and economic recession. Short-term economic considera­tions and expediency could have the gravest ofconsequences. 
Contrary to what many Americans believe, it is the United States expressed policy to use nuclear weapons first, to initiate nuclear war, in the defense of Westen Europe. By increas­ing our dependence upon nuclear weapons, we are lowering this "nuclear threshold." 
Prominent defense specialists such as Robert MacNamara (former Secretary of Defense), McGeorge Bundy (former N a tiona! Security Advisor), George Kennan (former Ambassador to the Soviet Union), and Gerald Smith (Salt II negotiator) have repeatedly argued for a conventional build-up offorces in Western Europe, rather than a nuclear one. Pursuing such a policy would enable the United States to declare a "No First Use" of nuclear weapons policy, as the Soviet Union did in June of 1982 before the United Nations General Assembly. Their reco~mendations have been refuted by the Reagan Administra­tion. 
The primary dilemna we face in this age of nuclear overkill is that more missilt:s no lon­ger ensure greater security, or buy greater political influence. Locked within the framework of nuclear deterrence, we have come to base our military strategy on percep­tions, rather than reality. We deploy more missiles as a statement of "resolve" or "will," rather than out ofmilitary necessity. 
The NATO deployment decision was flawed from the start, as we put ourselves to the test in a virtual "no-win" situation. Hopes for arms control look dismal. There is mount­ing opposition in Europe to deployment, and the Soviets are preparing counter­deployment sites. The situation will get much worse before it gets better. It is frightening that Reagan and others are viewing the recent Soviet walkout as some sort of U.S. "victory." 
In the face ofa crisis situation developing in Europe, we must avoid the smug com­placency ofviewing deployment as a political victory for the West, and realize that the Soviets are not about to buckle under. 
The true outcome has been unnecessary political damage to the Alliance (the full ef­fects ofwhich have yet to be seen), a growing European distrust ofAmerican motives, a fur­ther escalation of the arms race, increased U.S.-Soviet tensions, and therefore, an in­creased likelihood ofnuclear conflict. 
In that respect, we are all losers. 



Does God deserve God's own pronoun? 
Seated at tht· dinner table with a Thanksgiv­ing meal spread before him, my father began a traditional (if not outdated) blessing with tht• words, "Lord God, Kingofthe Universe ... " 
"And Queen," my mother interrupted, unwilling to let the sexist reference pass. 
Keith Picher 

Profundity's demise 
"What?" my father asked, temporarily forgetting that ht· was in the middle ofa bless­ing. 
"God is no more a king than a queen," she added. 
"Lord (;od, King and Queen of the llni­verst·." he continued awkwardly, having lost his original train of thought. 
Many havt" criticized recent attempts to remove sexist language from prayer and scripture. Some right-wingers think these ef­torts are frivolous feminist ploys, and dismiss them with a "much ado about nothing" at­titude. 
Even left-wingers were upset by a recent "non-sexist" le<:tionary, published by a group ofwould-be theologians. Sifting through their versions ofwell-known passages ofthe Bible is like walking through a minetield. It's almost as if they typed the old lectionary into a com­puter and had the machine replace every "His" with "God's" and every "Son" with "Child" (as if Jesus were some sort of androgynous creature.) 
Feminists should be concerned about ex­clusive language, whether in everyday con­versation or liturgy. 
But the crime in exclusive "God talk" is not that it is unfair to women. rather it promotes an incredibly narrow vision ofGod. 
Everyone realizes that God is neither male or female in the same sense humans are (God has little need to reproduce.) Calling God a 

"he" is at best a metaphor, if not merely a weakness in human language. 
Some believe we arbitrarily assign the pronoun "he" to God in the same way ships and nature are seen as feminine. Of course there's nothing wrong with referring to a ship or nature as "it," though treating God as an "it" seems silly. 
Traditionalists who think God must be a "he" evidently understand "he" as the proper pronoun for the antecedent "Father." Since "Father" is only a metaphor, why should all other descriptions be inappropriate. Would Homer have wanted all literature from The Odyssey onward to refer to dawn as rosy­fingered? 
The point is, we shouldn't fool ourselves in­to thinking the pronoun "he" or the noun "Father" is anything more than a metaphor which stresses similarities, but is by nature quite incomplete, as any idea we have ofGod must be. In fact, many of the images Jesus of­fers for "The Father" gain strength from their differences, not similarities, to humans. 
So what pronoun should we usc for God, or 
does God deserve an exclusive one? 

Many who teach theology at Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's avoid the whole mess by 
referring to God not as a he, she or it, but God: "God loved the world so much God sent God's only son." Proponents note that such language treats God differently than men, women and things -elevating God properly. 
Which is more important -avoiding a nar­row vision ofGod or avoiding pronouns com­pletely? The only compromise would be to invent a new pronoun which means "God's." Perhaps we could use "Az" as the pronoun form for God (the alpha and the omega) and "Azs" as the possesive pronoun. 
Perhaps this formulation seems a bit forced. But after thousands of years of calling God "He," how could one avoid sounding strange and different. 
When we stop referring to God exclusively as "He," we will make more of a statement about ourselves than God. 

p • 0. BoxQ 
Photo opinion 
Dear Editor: 

Pt·rhaps "C::mpus t·omments," would become less of a lunchtime laughter and gain some respt.·ct if you would represent more dif­ferent kinds of people here. For instance, when you asked,"lf Notre Dame went dry, would you move off-campus?" you asked two engineers and two pre-meds (four throats). I am a busint·ss major and I would sooner live in a tent in lot D-6 than live on a dry campus. 
Dj. Scanlan,jr. 
Academic slums 
Dear Eel/tor: 

In James Carberry's editorial, "There's no business likt" bowl business," he refers to two State universities, the University of Nebraska and the: University ofOklahoma, as "acadt·mic slums." The remark is an insult to the Regents, the professors, the students and the graduates 
ofthe two schools, and it smacks ofelitism. 
While I have not attended the University of Nebraska, I can say that my relatives and friends who have graduated from the Univer­sity show no signs ofdeprivation from spend­ing four years in an academic slum. On the contrary, they have been well-educated and are very saccessful in professional occupa­tions. 
The administrators of state universities at­tempt to provide a gcnd education which is available and affordable to all those who wish to attt"nd -something that Notre Dame can­nor do. State universities provide a valuable public service and should not be derided be­cause they have priorities and limitations dif­ferent from Notre Dame's. People inside Notre Dame are fond ofcalling the University great. Do tht"y arrive at this conclusion by snet"ring at state schools? I hope not. 
Bridget A. Sullivan 


Good show 
DearEditor: 

I cannot recall a page ofThe Obseroer with more incisive commentary than page six of the November 29 issue, which contained the columns of Max Lerner and James Carberry and Professor Norling's letter to the editor. 
Edward]. Murphy 

Kennedy article 
DearEditor: 

I was surprised and somewhat disappointed with Max Lerner's assessment ofJohn F. Ken­nedy's presidency in his article of November 22 (John F. Kennedy's Camelot Legend). Ler­ner refers to Kennedy's assassination as the 
death ofthe sorcerer and depicts the Kennedy character as one ruled by fun and playful­
ness. 

This is clearly a shortsighted analysis of a man shown to be America's favorite President by a latest Newsweek poll. It is unlikely that the American public could be so easily misled. There was obviously something behind the Kennedy mystique. Even Richard Nixon, after having been defeated hy Kennedy in the 1960 presidential election, pointed out that no one can steal an election. 
Kennedy raised the nation's hopes like no other. The temptation for many historians is to blame him for not following through. Professor Lerner writes, "The reality about Kennedy is that all his life seemed to bt" a preparation for something that never came off." However, we cannot afford to overlook Kennedy's own words that although we are "rejoicing in hope," we must also be "patient in tribulation." I would suggest that Lerner reasses Kennedy and see him as he saw him­self, "an Idealist without illusions." 
Thomas}. Antonini 

Editorial Board Depat1ment Managers 
Editor-in-Chief...... ........... David Dziedzic 
P. (). Hox Q. l\'otrt' /Jmne. /.\' ·165 56 ( 21 ')) 23'J· 5303 .Hanaging Editor ......... ........ Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager....... .....Christopht·r Owen 
7h<' 0/J.~ert•er i~ the indept.·ruknt Ill'\\ ~papt·r puhlislll'd hy the stmknts of the l'ni­Ewcutit•e Editor........... ..... Paul McGinn Controller............... .......Alex Szilva' HTSity of Notrt· Damt· du l.ac and Saint .\lary\ Colk-ge. lt does nor nen·ssarily rdkct .Veu·s Editor................................. Bob Vonderht:ide Adt'l'rtising Manager .........................Jeanie Pook the polidt·s of tht· adminbtration of dthn institution. Tht· nt·ws is reported as a<.:· .\'eu'S Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Circulation Manager... ........... Mark Miotto curatdv and as ohjt-ctivdy as possihll'. l 'nsignt·d t·ditoriab represent the opinon ofa Saint Marr·s Editor ............. ....Anne Monastyrski .~)·stems lHcmager. .......Kevin Williams majority ofthe Editorial Board. Comnll'ntarit·~. kiln~. and the Inside Column prest·nt Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan tht· vkws oftheir author~. Column ~pact· i~ availabk to all mt·mbers oftht· community. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton arultht• frt•t•t·xprt·ssion ofvarying opinionson campus. through kllt'rs. is t·ncouraged. Photo Eclitor ................................... ......Scoll Bower 
Founded November 3, 1966 

r 



Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball is looking for a commis­sioner for this spring's tournament. If you are a sophomore and in­terested in running the prestigious tournament, pick up an application at the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications for all other An Tostal commissioners are also available. All applications should be picked up by today. -The Observer 
Sign-ups for the Insllco Squashtournament continue this week in the ACC. The Dec. 2-4 tournament features 'B', 'C', and 'D' divisions. It is open to students and faculty. Winners of this tournament advance to the regionals held in Chicago in January. For more information, call Sean Richardson at 277-1405.-The Ob­server 
AI Maguire, Digger Phelps,and Tom Sluby will be among the celebrities present at the UCLA Pep Rally. The rally takes place tomorrow, December 2, at 7:30p.m. in the ACC Pit. And best ofaiL it's frer. :-The Observer 
lnterhall basketball is now underway as several B­team games were played last night. Tim Connolly accounted for a116 of Howard's points in the second overtime period as Howard defeated Holy Cross 40-36; Dillon rolled past an Off-Campus team 44-26 behind 11 points from Dave Stump; A different Off-Campus team beat Flanner 45-36 despite 31 points from Flanner' t s Mike Et­ling; Steve Boie canned 21 points to lead Grace to a 61-39 trouncing 
of Keenan; and Sorin came back from a 7-point deficit at the half to defeat Cavanaugh, 42-32. -The Observer 

The ND/SMC Ski Teamwmholdameetingfrom4 to 7 p.m. at 205 Alumni tomorrow, December 2. Also, there are still a few spots open for the trip to Jackson Hole. For more information, come to the meeting. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Clubwm hold a bench press competition in the Rockne weight room on Sun­day, December 3 at 1 p.m. All those interested in flexing their muscles should sign up in the Rockne weight room or call 8762. All students, male or female, are eligible. This includes varsity athletes. The entrance fee is S2 for those who are not members of the weightlifiing club. -The Observer 
Liberty Bowl tickets for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are available at the second floor ticket windows of the ACC according to the following schedule: Sopho­mores/Law/Grads-Today, December 1; Freshmen-tomorrow, December 2. The ticket windows will be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (including the noon hour). The cost ofa ticket for the December 29 game in Memphis, Tenn., is $18. A student may present a maximum oftwo identification cards and applications for tickets. Married stu­dents may purchase a ticket for their spouse at the time ofissue by presenting proofofmarriage. Upperclassmen may pick up their tick­
ets on or afier their designated day, but the last day ofissue is tomor­row, December 2. -The Observer 


Classifieds 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF GLASSES IN A RIDERS NEEDED TO CLEVELAND-­TAN CASE EARLY MONDAY AFTER­SPECIF. JOHN CARROLL U AREA·­
NOTICES 

NOON. LOST IN BUSINESS BUILDING, 12/2-12/4 :CALL WILL234-4511 N.DINIING HALL. OR SOMEWHERE IN BETWEEN. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL HELP! NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO 
PRO-TYPE. 12 yrs. experience. 
STEPH, X6841. AREA ON FRI. DEC. 2. CALL MIKE 8842 
Specializing in dissertations. manuscripts, theses, and student papers. • one of ...RIDE NEEDED TO (NEAR) EXIT 2 ON 
FOUND pair women's Call277-5833 for rates. 
eyeglasses between Cavanaugh and OHIO TURNPK OR FT WAYNE. IND. 
Nieuwland on 11/28. Call1802 or stop by LEAVE FRI DEC 2/SAT DEC 3 TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 
1111 Grace. ANYTIME. RETURN RIDE ONLY IF POSSIBLE. CALLJOAN 277-7576 ... ADELE STOCCO los1: Quartz watch. Says KC AWARD HAS FINALLY REACHED 21! WINNER 1983. lffound, call Dan at 6748. Help! I need a ride to Dayton this CALL 284-5241 Have only thanks to offer. weekend. Leave 1112 .return 11/4. Dave AND WISH HER A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 3810 
LOST: LARGE GREEN & BLUE­
STRIPED GANT RUGBY SHIRT
WSND AM needs good salespeople! 
OUTSIDE BADIN LAUNDRY 11/18 OR 
Come to meeting Monday Dec. 5 at 7:00 
11119. PLEASE MAKE YOURSELF
pm in WSND studio or call Kevon at 277­
FOR SALE

FEEL GOOD BY RETURNING TO LOST & FOUND IN ADMIN BUILDING OR CALL CHRIS· 2n-4851. 
6250 EXOTIC PETS • snakes, lizards, turtles, 
LOST: 1 blue NO book bag at St. Mary's­
tarantula, amphibians, birds, mam­Saga. II found, call Mark 1186. 

ILOST/FOUND I 
mals, Largest eetectlon In U.S. Mid­-• Reptile, 1520 MI.-aka Ave.,

LOST: 1 brown leather shoulder bag in 
232-2095, 2 mL from N.D.

LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR front of Holy Cross SMC. on Sunday Nov. 
27, my checkbook is in it. II found please I lost my Hewlett-Packard calculator in the call Teresa at 284-4353 Engineering Computer Room on Wed­nesday. Nov. 9. It has big on~ials of OS in LOST: A gold signet ring with the Ini­FOR SALE · a three month old Signal­the right comer. H found. call David at 277-tials BSA. Betw.., Dillon lind Alumni men Mark VII modem. This is a 300 baud 
1326. Reward offered. No ques1ions. on Friday Nov. 11. H found call Beth direct connect modem with: ................................................. 214-4030 Auto answer capabilities 
LOST: NAVY BLUE LIGHTWEIGHT Auto dial capabilities PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET. TO THE Audible signals. not led's, so you can BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND tuck ~ out of sight. 
LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE HAD Normally this modem sells for more FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN than $150. but for this cne time offer. I'll
WANTED 
AT8810. take the bes1 offer better than $100. Call Nick at 283-1426 
LOsT-DID ANY'6NE ··picK·····L;p·····A 
PURPLE DOWN COAT AT CORBY'S RIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK, THURSDAY, NOV. 17TH? IF YOU SYRACUSE OR THE VICINITY AFTER HITACHI AM-FM STEREO CASSETTE KNOW ANYTHING. PLEASE CALL FINALS CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 RECORDER FOR SALE,$250.00 CALL CYNTHIA AT 8017. ANYTIME. JAN BISHOP 239-6307 
day night. Meloche made the save on the shot as Neal Broten watched. Minnesota won the game, 6-4. 

NBA Standings 
NBA Eastern Conference Western Conference Atlantic Division Midwest Division w L Pet. GB 
W L Pet. GB Philadelphia 13 3 .813 Dallas 11 4 .733 Bos1on 12 5 .706 1.5 Denver 9 8 .529 3 New York 11 6 .647 2.5 KansasC~y 8 8 .500 3.5 New Jersey 8 7 .533 4.5 Utah 9 9 .500 3.5 Washington 6 10 .375 7 Hous1on 6 10 .375 5.5 
Central Division SanAntonto 6 12 .333 6.5 
Milwaukee 11 6 .647 PIICiflc Division Atlanta 8 8 .500 2.5 Los Angeles 12 4 .750 Detro~ 8 9 .471 3 Portland 11 6 .647 1.5 
Chicago 5 9 .357 4.5 Seattle 9 8 .529 3.5 Cleveland 5 12 .294 6 Golden State 8 9 .471 4.5 Indiana 4 12 .250 6.5 Phoenix 5 12 294 7.5 San Diego 5 13 .278 8 
Yesterday's Results New York 113, New Jersey 1 04 Philadelphia 122. Atlanta 110 Cleveland 112, Portland 1 05 Boston 130, San Antonio 106 Milwaukee 139, Denver 122 Dallas 113, Houston 1 02 Kansas City 120, Phoenix 118 Utah 117, San Diego 115 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor ofHaggarCollege Center, accepts classifieds from I 2:30 
p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Frida.y. Deadline for next day clas­sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per seven characters per day. 

LIBERTY BOWL T-SHIRTS FOR SALE. 
HUNGRY!! Discount deals for pizza. hot GAIL SANDERS AND CINDY MER· GREAT SOUVENIR AND CHRISTMAS dogs. and more in Yellow· Pages of Your LOCK; WHY. DON'T YOU SEE HOW PRESENT CALL DON 1463 
Campus Telephone Directory. SWEET MARK·s "CANOY A .. REAL­LY IS!! SINCERELY, BEN DO. FOR SALE One round trip ticket Y-CAFE: Improve your tas1e-Y'all come anywhere Piedmont flies. Best oHer by 
now, ya hear! To Joseph, Linda, linda, and the cast and 12/8. Call x8531 
crews of "FIDDLER" "All the world's a PAYABLE UPON RETURN A Juniper stage, and all the men and women merely Press publication by Michael Varga. players" Thankyou, Mazeltov. and break when roommates part... ...and meet a leg! That Crazy Student again. PAYABLE UPON RETURN Available in the Notre Dame Books1ore. PAPA HODEL 
TICKETS 
ON SUNDAY DEC. 4 ALL MEN FROM ANARCHY? NO! ITS THE RHYTHM 
NOTRE DAME ARE INVITED TO STOP METHODSt SAT DEC 3 9PM. THE BY LEMANS HALL (SMC) AND GIVE NAZZ!

DESPARATELY NEED TWO LIBERTY 
KELLY ANNE O'SHEA A HAPPY 22 nd
BOWL TIKS CALL 272-3491 
BIRTHDAY KISS MARES. HAVE A HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY. ON THIS VERY SPECIALNEED: DePaul tix will trade UCLA or pay To my Teddy Bear: Happy Birthday DAY. REMEMBER THAT MANY$$ call Vince 3129 CUTIE! May you have all the bes1: PEOPLE LOVE YOU. INCLUDING 

wearing socks. big Macs. showers. Coke MYSELF. YOU HAVE BROUGHT SO"AA'o 1202 EMERGENCY!! 4 GA's needed or champagne, JUSt colors, and that little MUCH HAPPINESS INTO MY LIFE.

for UCLA. Ph. 8398 $$$ yellow chair! I Jove you! Faithfully, your LOVE, TIMMERS. girl.

FOR SALE BSKTBALL TIX· ST. 
DearFRANCIS: 12/5/83 & LEHIGH:12/11-­

A DRY CAMPUS? BUZZ CLUB BUZZ Kathy, Cathy, Bog, Patty, Pattie, Helen. Heier 
$1.50 EA. CRAIG-3366 
CLUB BUZZ CLUB 1419 ANDERSON Dar­lene,Angle,Peggy,Joan,(Hey,Hey)Paula,A

NEED 4 UCLA TICKETS!!! Call Sheila 
Katle,Eileen,Miriam,Laura,Anne,Mary,Anc
3484 and, STEVE.. /Thanks tor e tllun 
DITIOSTOCCO 
•aeon. It's too bed we Ioiii, but you

would like UCLA tix call 283-8046 IS21 TODAY 
couldn't have done II without us, Let'I 
CALL 284·5241 
get together tor • guard revsree party.

I need 6 GA's (together) to the DePaul AND WISH HER THE BEST 
coach chris end mike. 

game. Pay$$$! Call Beth 284-4030 P.S. EMBARRASSED? 
MARY-JO from LEWIS: Thanks a lot for lhe cookies. Glad you had fun in So. Cal. 
GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT!! BUY A 
MIKEin384 
DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE 
YELLOW SUBMARINE. WE STILL 
EUROMISSILE PROTEST!

PERSONALS 
DELIVER 9-12pm CALL 272·4453. 
TODAY,12:15,LAFORTUNE. 

STEVE AND JULIE, THIS IS MY VER· LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR SION OF A BANNER. BREAK A LEG ON 
Some men never Osten,
FIDLER. HEY. EVERYONE COME SEE 
Others never /earn.

Lost in engineering compder room. Call A DANCIN(i PIG AND A SHRUBERY 
David at 277-7326. No questions asked. GODDESS ON THE LOOSE TONIGHT 
-Genesis 

Reward offered. IN O'LAUGHLIN SIGNED. THE PFJ 
------------------------------------------~----~-­
The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1983-page 10 
What's up Saturday, December 3 
women's swimming vs. Western Ontario 11:00 
men's swimming 
vs. Western Ontario 
2:00 ... 
mens basketball VS. UCLA 2:00 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

To m Slufry wt/1 be among thefeatured speakersat the UClA Pep Rally this Friday night at 7:30 in theACCPit. He will bejoinedfryAl McGuire and Digger Phelps, among others, as the Irish are attempt­ing to rebound back after a loss to Indiana Tuesday night. 
Friday, December 2 
men's swimming 
ND Relays vs Wabash Wayne State Xavier 7:00 
hockey 
at St. Norbert's 

Carlos Sweeney~s 
Carlos presents his STUDENT SPECIAL Bring in Coupon and receive $1.00 off any lunch or dinner entree r...............n 
••.,..................._......................._.............................. 
Carlos Buck 139 W. McKinley Ave. $1.00 of any entree Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 Dinner Special Limit: one coupon per visit, per person Coupon Good Anytime 

VS. UCLA 5:00 

THE PROGRESSIVE MUSIK CLUB AND Student Union 
present the 


WHITE X-MAS PARTY Sot., Dec. 3 Cost: S1 Chautauqua 9-? 
Free Records. to the First 200 People 

Are you considering professional school? 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT 
Is Looki11g for Future l.caders i11 Pulllic Affairs. 
Come Leam Allout flarz,ard's Two-Year Master's Program i11 Pu/1/ic Policy, Leading to eitller tile Master in Pu/1/ic Policy or City and Regio11af Planning Degree. 
MEET WITH: Sally Sachar, Admissions Officer DATE: Monday, December 5 at lOam and llam CONTACT: Career Services Office 
All Students, All Ma;ors, All Years Welcome! Joint Degree Programs Offered ll'itlt flarz''"d's otlta Professional Scllools. Gellerous Cross-Registration Priz•ilt'ges witlt otlla Scllools. 
r The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1983 -page 11 
Fourth-ranked tigers breeze to victory 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Tim Hasely scored six of his 14 points in a ten-minute burst in the third quar­ter that spurred Butler to defeat Val­paraiso 56-44 last night in a non-conference college basketball game. 
The Bulldogs' Tim McRoberts also hit for 14 points, and Darrin Fitzgerald sscored eight during the third quarter drive that put Butler ahead 40-28. 
Butler, 2-1, led 20-18 after a cold­
shooting first half in whch the Bul­
ldogs hit only 28 percent from the 
floor and Valparaiso, 1-1, managed 
31 percent. 
John Mene was high scorer for 
Valparaiso with 18. 


MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) -Keith Lee scored 24 points and pulled down 15 rebounds while teammates Bobby Parks and Phil Haynes each added 16 points as the fourth-ranked Memphis State Tigers defeated Middle Tennessee State 74-47 in a nonconference college basketball game last night. 
The Tigers are now 3-0 while Middle Tennessee fell to 1-2. 
Lee and Haynes broke open the game in the first half when, with the Tigers leading 18-12, the two ac­counted for the game's next 10 points and their team's next 16 points. 
In a stretch of six minutes, Memphis State increased its margin to 36-18 on the strength offour bas­kets by Lee and five by Haynes. 
With 9:29 remaining. the Blue Raiders cut the margin to I 5. However, three baskets by Parks and two by Lee gave Memphis State a 21­point advantage and put the game out of reach. 
The victory was the 200th in Memphis State Coach's Dana Kirk's collegiate coaching career. 
game. RENNSELAER, Ind. (AP) -Greg Mark Moody added 12 points for Martin scored 16 points and Brad St. Joseph's, 2-1. 
Connor hit 13 as St. Joseph's Worth Packard and John Boa methodsfor inducting Track & Field athletes into befeated Grace 74-62 last night in a scored 1 5 points apiece for Grace the Track & Field Hall ofFame. The Hall ofFame 
The Athletics Congressyesterday approved new 
pon-conference college basketball 6-3. 
ATTENTION!!! 

ALL CALIFORNIA STUDENTS 
CAN EITHER YOU OR YOUR PARENTS STILL USE FINANCIAL AID THIS YEAR? 
The CLAS >(-loan program is now available to California students and their parents. The program which is similar to the Guaranteed Student Loan Program (GSLPl allows parents to borrow up to $3.000 per year to help with educational costs. It is also available to independent undergraduates and graduate students. 
This program is made avail­able through the California 
' 

Student Loan Authority. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION SEND THIS COUPON TO THE: 


CALIFORNIA STUDENT LOAN AUTHORITY 
915 Capitol Mall, Room 280 Sacramento, CA 95814 Name: _________________ Address: --------------­
,,, ' 
"'I •.• 
School:---------------­

'California Loans to Assist Students 
• •· .... -· ...... -................ --i> ~ .. -...... -,..... # .. ~,., .. ,..,.. , , ........~."" ....................... , .. .. 
The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1983-page 12 
• . Holmes 
Frazier in Manila. 
The only heavyweight champion 
to retire undefeated wa.~ the late 
Rocky Marciano, who left the ring 
with a 49-0 record. 
King. who promoted many of 
Holmes' fights, gree t ted the news of 
the possible retirement optimistical· 
Iy. 
"It will allow others in the 
shadows to gain fame, acclaim and 
affluence," King said. "It will be like 
the retirement of the legendary 
Muhammad Ali. That did not cause 
the demise of boxing. Boxing will 
continue to flourish and I will be a 
part ofit." 
King said he thought the WBC 
rules for mandatory defenses against 
No. I contenders would continue to 
Kansas put on probation 
Associated Press 
MISSION, Kan. -The NCAA ended a 19-month investigation of the University of Kansas yesterday hy handing the Jayhawks a two-year foothall prohation, which includes one year ofsanctions. 
The NCAA said in a release that Kansa.~ will not he eligihle for a postseason football appearance following the 1984 foothall season and that the Jayhawks may not ap­pear on television that year. 
The NCAA noted none of the ath· letic department staff memhers involved in what it called "significant violations" remained at the university. However, it said a for­mer assistant football coach -who was not named -must remain separated "from any involvement in the university's intercollegiate ath­letics program for a period of three years beginning Nov. 21, 198.3." 
Violations cited in the release in­cluded offering large amounts of money and henefits to prospective players; providing prospects with expense-paid visits to the campus; providing employment to athletes and filing false statements that Kansa.~ was in compliance with NCAA rules. 
GIRLS 
For better dating, your way, more friends wllh same "likes". use new DATE·A·CARD (tm) dating. 40 cards $2.75 postpaid. Wrlle: 
MARIGOLD SUPPLY Box 3098N, Warren,OH44485 
OVERSEAS JOBS 
Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightseeing. free Info. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
• 1 
..... 
~ 
MICHIAIIA BAnERY 
501 E. Sample 

213-2590 
10% Discount with university 10 
I HI I LHAkl•IN(i h S I ARTING O..,V'>II M CHI Cl< 
Liberty Bowl ticket distribution 

TODAY 
Sophomores/ Law/Grads 


TOMORROW 
Freshmen 

operate and create an elimination hout between Page and No. 2 Tim 
Witherspooon for the crown. 
"I am a stickler for the rules," he said. "The mandatory rule enabled Larry Holmes and I to gain the cham­pionship. 
"It's wonderful that Larry Holmes ha.o; the finances and sustenance to retire. It is better for him to quit one punch too soon than one punch too late." 
Page said he would not be 
surprised  or  disappointed  by  a  
Holmes' retirement.  
"I  already  established  he"s  a  

coward," he said. "He's afraid of me. He's yellow. He's been ducking me." 
"ontinuedfrompage 16 
Page said the public would accept the winner of an elimination bout between him and Witherspoon as champion. 
"I've been guaranteed this shot and I'm gonna get this shot," he said, "with or without Larry Holmes." 
But both Page and his attorney, Miller, insisted there will be no tournament of top contenders to replace Holmes should the champ retire. 
"We're looking at one fight for the title," Miller said. "The top two guys should fight. If Holmes and Page don't fight, then it should be Greg and Witherspoon." 

The Observer Thursday, December 1, 1983-page 13 
Houston, Georgetown win 
Cards upset by surprising Purdue 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Reserve Mark Atkinson, who came the game. The Cougars largest lead Guard Ricky Hall scored a career· in after Rowinski got his second foul, was 18 points at the 7:43 mark, high 24 points last night, and scored six points in the next four when the score was 53-35. teammate Steve Reid had 11 of his minutes as the boilermakers The Bulldogs made a rally late in I 7 points in overtime as Purdue beat regained the lead at 20-19. the game, led by a couple of Louisville 90-83 in NCAA college A 3-point play by Thompson put reserves. But Houston, 2-1, con­
basketball competition. the Cardinals ahead again, but anoth­verted on seven straight free throws 
Hall, a 6-foot-1 senior, also had er basket by Atkinson tied the game to hold offMississippi State. seven assists and seven steals, and two straight steals and layups by The Bulldogs, 1-1, despite giving including two in the overtime Hall started a 12-5 spurt that gave away height at every position, out­period after the Cardinals went Purdue the lead the rest of the half. rebounded the Cougars 31-24. ahead by two points. The first steal The Boilermakers' biggest ad­led to two free throws by the S-9 vantage was five points. Louisville 
Reid, putting Purdue back on top for cut it to one point two minutes good at 75-73. before the intermission, but a basket Hal's next steal followed a layup by Clawson with 31 seconds to go 
by Reid that gave the Boilermakers a gave Purdue a 40-3 71ead at halftime. LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -Fresh­five-point advantage. Hall swiped Purdue managed two more three­man Reggie Williams scored 20 the inbounds pass under the Purdue point leads early in the second half, points as third-ranked Georgetown basket and put the ball back in for a but consecutive baskets by Manuel crushed Division II opponent Mor­
seven-point lead the Boilermakers Forrest andJones put Louisville back gan State 91-38 in a non-conference 
never lost. Seven of Purdue's final on top at 45-44 with 16 minutes basketball game last night. 
nine points came on free throws. remaining, starting the long string of Georgetown, which enjoyed a 44­Jim Bullock added 14 points and lead changes. 
18 lead at halftime, outscored Mor­Curt Clawson 13 for Purdue, now 3­gan State 14-0 and 19-1 over0 for the season. Louisville, 0-2, was six-minute stretches in the first halfled by sophomore forward Billy in racing to their third victory in asThompson with a career-high 27 many outings.

points and guard Milt Wagner with STARKVILLE, Miss. (AP) -Mic­Williams led the first-half rout22. hael Young and Alvin Franklin with 12 points. 
The lead changed IS times in the combined for 35 points last night to Morgan State, 1-3, was led byJessesecond half of regulation play. The lead the eighth-ranked Houston Jackson with 12 points and EddieCardinals held a four-point ad­Cougars to a 68-62 non-conference Stevens with I I. 
vantage with just over two minutes college basketball victory over Mis­to go, but a basket by Jim Rowinski s~sippi State. Any hopes of a comeback by the and a fast-break slam by Bullock tied Mississippi State took the early Bears were quickly put to rest as 
the game at 71-71. lead before Houston went ahead for they missed their first four shots af­
Purdue got the ball back again good at 6:46 of the first half, when ter intermission and did not put a with 1:25 to go and stalled for a final Franklin scored to give the Cougars point on the board until six minutes shot, but the game went into a 22-21 lead. The Cougars made the were gone in the second half. overtime after Hall missed with halftime score 32-25 when Derek David Wingate, with II points, three seconds remaining. Giles swished a 30-footer at the and Patrick Ewing, with I 0, joined 
There were six ties in the first half, buzzer. Williams in double figures for the and Louisville's biggest lead was four In the second half, Houston out­Hoyas as Coach John Thompson points, 12-8, after two straight bas­scored the Bulldogs 17-6 during an susbstituted freely throughout the kets by center Charles Jones. eight-minute span to take control of contest. 




Brenda Shearman Pam Hertel Beth Villars (Three former Regis stylists) 
But We Haven't Gone Too Far!! 


SHEAR STYLE 
Now Open at 423 W. McKinley in the Federal Square 256·'~ 5047 
(Located across from the Mish. K-Mart Auto Center) 
Come see us for a holiday cut and style Mention this ad for a discount 

Philadelphia 76ers center Moses Malonefinds himselfthe center ofattention as be is guarded by Indiana Pacers guardjerry Sicbt­ing during first quarter action oftheir NBA game in Indianapolis Tuesday night. 
New method to select track Hall ofFamers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS New procedures for selecting inductees into the relocated U.S. Track and Field Hall ofFame were approved by a committee of The Athletics Congress as th-:: organization began its annual convention yesterday. 
The Hall of Fame is scheduled to be moved to Indianapolis from Char­leston, W.Va, next fall. It will be housed in the new Hoosier Dome. 
"We want to create a Hall ofFame 

of the athletics community, not just 
TAC," said TAC Executive Director 
Ollan Cassell. 
The selection procedures ap­proved yesterday by the TAC Hall of Fame Committee will be used for the first time in 1984 and are not subject to approval by delegates to the organization's five-day conven­tion which ends Sunday. 
The selection procedure will begin with submission of nomina­tions fromJanuary through March I. 
The nominations would include three categories -athletes, coaches and contributors. 
TAC members, the Track and Field Writers of America, and TAC affiliate members such as the NCAA and the National Coaches Associa­tion would be able to submit nominations. 
Individuals would have to be out of senior competition for at least three years to be eligible for nomina­tion. 
An athlete would also need to have met specific criteria, such as having set a world or American record, won a world championship or Olympic gold medal, have led world or American competition in an event for three years, won at least four national championships and ac­hieved some other outstanding ac­complishment at the national or international level. 
A committee of 14 that would in­clude athletes, coaches, officials, media representatives and TAC would then review nominations to select candidates for consideration by a national panel ofapproximately 550-575 voters. 
The four nominees receiving the most votes each year and any others receiving at least 51 percent of the vote would be inducted. 
Cassell said he anticipated growing interest in the new facility and said it might obtain national sponsorship. There was also a pos­sibility traveling exhibits would be created to be moved around the na­tion. 
About 550 delegates are meeting ~t the convention. Most major legislation, on topics such as drug testing and awarding of sites for future national competitions, is ex­pected to be voted on Sunday. 
The lengthy process of selecting track and field officials for the 1984 Summer Olympics also was com­pleted yesterday, but selections are not scheduled to be announced un­tiiJanuary. 
As the host nation for the Los An­geles Olympic Games, TAC selects officials for the sport because it is the national governing body. 
"We began with some 600 ap­plicants who had to meet specific criteria of experience," said Frank Greenberg, chairman of the officials selection committee. "That group 
200. This is a once-in-a-lifetime experience for most and we created a selection process that we think has produced the the most experienced group of officials ever assembled." 
Greenberg said applicants had to make their desire to officiate in Los Angeles known in December 1981. 
"We then rated them during 1982 and had directors of every major meet in the nation, plus our own ob­servers, evaluate the officials," he said. 
"This year we've held meetings to decide the selections," said Green­berg. ''I'd estimate the six members on the committee spent about 100 hours in meetings to make the selec­tions. I know we're going to hurt some feelings and some people will feel dejected but I believe we've come up with a group the country can be proud ofin Los Angeles." 
The Observer Thursday, December I, 1983-page 14 
Sports Emmys awarded 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Dick Enberg, John 
Madden and the coverage of the 
1983 World Series were among the 
winners last night when the National 
Sports Emmy Awards for excellence 
in sports television were an­
nounced. 

Enberg, one of the top announ­
cers at NBC who has handled such 
events as the Super Bowl and the 
Wimbledon tennis tournament, 
received the award of "Outstandin~ 
Sports Personality: Host." 

Madden, a former coach with the 
Oakland Raiders of the National 
Football League, who has turned TV 
color man for CBS football games, 
was the recipient ofthe award ofthe 
"Outstanding Sports Ktrsonality: 
analyst." 

The 79th World Series between 
the Baltimore Orioles and Philadel­
phia Phillies, meanwhile, was voted 
the "Outstanding Live Sports Spe­
cial" for its performance on NBC. 

The awards, presented by the Na­
tional Academy of Television Arts 
and Sciences, represented outstand­
ing achievement by producers and 
individuals in national network and 
syndicated sports programmmg 
during the period 1982-83. 

Among the other program win· ners were: CBS Sports Presents The National Football League as the "Outstanding Live Sports Series"; Wimbledon '83 as the "Outstanding Edited Sports Special" and The 
American Sportsman as the "Outstanding Edited Sports Series­Anthologies." In addition, ABC's Wide World OfSports, PBS' Football In America, ABC's The American Sportsman and ABC Sportsbeat were cited in a "special classification ofoutstanding achievement." 
Also, ABC was given an award for "innovative technical achievement" for a microwave transmission from the summit of Mt. Everest on The American Sportsman. 
Among the individual winners for writing were George Bell, Jr., for ABC's "The American Sportsman -A retrospc<:tive of William Holden's Africa" and Steve Sabol and Phil Tuckett for "Wake Up The Echoes: The History of Notre Dame Foot­ball" on an independent network. 
Friday night 
NO hockey vs. Lake Forest 7:30p.m. the ACC 
•••••*******•••••
: Buy· ~ 
! Observer i 
• I •
: classifiedsi 
. : 
* • :* * * *;. .:*.*. * .i 
Hockey Standings 
In this year's 'NHL playoH format. the top fourteams in each division make the playoHs. regardless of over­allleague sta.nd~ng. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Adllma Dlvlalon Smytt. Dvlalon 

w L T GF GA Pta. w L T GF GA Pta BuHalo 14 8 3 97 87 31 Edmonton 19 4 3 157 105 41 Boston 14 6 2 107 70 30 Calgary 10 10 4 89 99 24 Quebec 13 11 3 129 99 29 Vancouver 11 12 2 108 105 24 Montreal 11 12 1 97 96 23 LosAngele• 7 13 5 101 116 19 Hart!ord 9 11 2 78 88 20 Winnipeg 7 14 3 97 120 17 
Patrick Dlvlalon Norrie Dlvlalon 

N. Y. Islanders 16 8 1 112 88 33 Minnesota 12 9 3 113 114 27 
N.Y. Rangers 14 9 4 108 96 32 Toronto 11 12 2 107 119 24 Ph1ladelph1a 14 8 3 106 88 31 Chicago 11 13 2 95 106 24 Wash1ngton 11 13 1 82 91 23 DetrOit 10 11 2 87 91 22 Pittsburgh 6 16 3 77 102 15 St. Louis 9 12 3 91 104 21 New Jersey 3 20 0 60 114 6 
Yeaterday'a Reaulta Vancouver 6. Hartford 2 Chicago 4. N.Y. Rangers 0 Toronto 5, Detroit 3 Philadelphia 3, Edmonton 3. tie 


FIDDLER ON THE ROOF based on Sholem Aleichem stories by pennisslon of Arnold Peri Book by' JOSEPH STEIN Music by' JERRY BOCK Lyrics by>St£LDON HARNJCII Produced on the New York Stqe by Harold Prince 
Original New York Stage Production Directed and Choreographed by JEROME ROBBINS 
SOLA 

Student Organization for Latin America General Meeting 
General Re-structuring 
Elections 
A Film 
7:00 Thursday December 1, 1983 
Center for Social Concerns 



EASY RIDER 
TO A1ID FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
PIZZA PRICE ROLLBACK! 
OUR NEW EVERYDAY LOW PRICE 16" LARGE........ $6.19 

Exira Toppings $1.00 ea. 
14" MEDIUM...... $5.24 

All PizU~S Have ~ ~ c:::::•;a~~u 
Jolis~ Jrinre Jil!l!eria 
. . _. 
.I 
18061 STATE ROAD 23 112 Block W. of Ironwood on 23 SOUTH BEND, IN. .­

open Daily 4 P.M. 'Tilt A.M Carry·Out 
Closed Mondays • Limited FREE Delivery
272 8030 


BILLY JOEL 
Cqncert Lottery Thursday, December 1 at 2:30 in the Nazz Concert Feb. 2 in the ACC 



T0 daY------------------111-ur_sd_a_y_,_o_ec_e_m_be_r_l_,1_9_8_3 P_ag_e_l_s_ 

Bloom County
_.....:;______, 
ttri ASK AN ff4,ARTMI rHtltP 
PAfl.rr. 'forN6 ,.,AN,ffj YDII!f PfiN~1 WHAT" THt FINISr PUcE 6F ~HMAt I'II/SlC -8ACJIS IIIASS IN 8 f'fiNM Off SI!THOVCNJ 1~? 
\ 


The Daily Crossword 
Campus 
•12:
15 p.m. -Anti-Euromisslle Demonstra­tion, In front ofLaFortune 

•3:30 
p.m. Holo€aust Film Series, "Obedience," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SMC Dept. ofModern Languages 

•4:00 
p.m. Radiation Lab Seminar, "Spectroscopic Studies of Transition Metal Clus­ters," Prof Veronica Vaida, Conference Theatre Radiation Lab 

•4:15 
p.m. -Seminar, "Wage Policies in Authori­tarian Brazil: 1964-1978," Russell E. Smith, 105 Law School 

•7 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Women vs. Kalamazoo, Rockne Pool 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, of Students fpr Responsible University Investments, Center for Social Con­cerns 

•7 
p.m. -SOLA Meeting, CSC Coffeehouse 

•7 
p.m. -PresentationandReception, Leo Bur­nett, For all interested Juniors, Seniors and MBA students, Notre Dame Room of the Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, 

•7, 
8:30 and IO p.m.-Film, "Grenada: Nobody's Back Yard," Center for Social Concerns, Free 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "And Justice for All," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Womens Caucus, SI 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Artistic Process: Grap­hics," Dr. Dean A. Porter, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Galileo's Use ofExperiment," William Wallace, Library Lounge 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "Fiddler on the Roof," NO Student Union Players, $3.50 in advance, S4 at the door 

•8:45 
p.m. -Film, "The Legacy of Currier and Jves," The Snite Museum ofArt, Free 


8:30p.m.  16  Ma Ma's Family  
9p.m.  16  We Got it Made  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  9 to 5  
34  Living Maya  
9:30p.m.  16  Cheers  
28  It's Not Easy  
10p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
20/20  


r----~---------~-----··•••••••••••••••••·---------1 
~v CHEERS •
~lr \

J~ 6,\IIIR HILL STREET BLUES 






Sports 

Thursday, December 1, 1983 -page 16 
Top-notch competition delivers Irish volleyball team five losses 
ByJANE HEALEY hard games." that the Irish have had problems AssistantSports Editor The rankings were not the only as­dealing with more than just the 
While most people were at home sets the opposition possessed. The pressure. The jump from AlAW Divi­or on campus celebrating the average height on Notre Dame's sion II competition to NCAA Divi­Thanksgiving weekend, the Notre team is about 5-8. The other teams sion I has taken its toll on the team's Dame volleyball team was in Baton towered at an average of5-I I to 6-0. record. But an optimistic Vanslager Rouge, Louisiana battling some of Also, Notre Dame only travelled will not dwell on the bad. Instead, the biggest names in women's vol­with eight players -six on the she picked out the lessons both she leyball. coun and only two substitutes. The and the players have learned this 
The team's weekend was not as other teams brought 12 members season. relaxing or enjoying as most, either. with them. "I've learned a lot about the psy­They played five matches and lost all Though the Irish could not come chological preparation ofthe team," five in three games straight. LSlJ was away with any victories, Vanslager she said. "I think I understand the the first holiday spoiler beating the still thinks their performance was girls better now, and I'll be able to Irish 15-5, 15-1, and 15-3. Arizona good under the circumstances. prepare them better for the type of State wa$ next, topping Notre Dame "We scored points against ranked compeptitive situations we'll be in." 15-4, 15-5, and 15-5. The University teams," she said. "All the teams we of Houston scores were I 5-7. 15-4, played have experience. Their As for the team members, she said, and I 5-11. Nebraska made it four programs are not four years old (as rather than lamenting the losses, straight with a 15-4, 15-7, and 15-1 the Irish are). They have history to they must concentrate and put more trouncing. and Texas A&M added in­the programs." effort into staying together as a team. jury to insult with a 15-5, 15-3, and The exposure Notre Dame "It's too easy to split apart when I 5-7 victory. received is valuable. The matches 
you're losing," Vanslager said. Of the five teams, Arizona State were not televised as previously "When you're winning it's easy to be and Nebraska provided the stiffest contracted. But, simply coming in together, to be happy, and to unite 
competition. The two :ue ranked contact with that type of competi­
for the team effort. 13th and 9th respectively in NCAA tion can only help Notre Dame build "When you lose, though, when Division polls. its own history. the chips are down, it's a different 
Because of this high level of skill The drawback Vanslager focused story. Then it's easy to crawl into and talent, Coach Sandy Vanslager on was the tense play Notre Dame your own hole and find a scapegoat was not a~ disappointed as might be displayed several times throughout for why things are going rough. It 
expt·cted. The poise her team dis-, the weekend. takes more concentration and effort, played was a pleasant surprise. "The only disappointment I feel is 
and that's what we've learned this "We rt~ort·sented the lJniversitv when the girls put too much year." well in our first four matches," she pressure on themselves," Vanslager Dame have to
Notre will time
said. "We did not play frightened or said. "It's been a drawback all 
think about those lessons. For the
scared to death of those teams. We season. We haven't learned to deal 
next month the team will looselyplayed aggressively. The matches with pressure situations well at all." 
work out and spend some time in 
were not quick. They were long, With a record of 10-28, it seems the weightroom. InJanuary, it's back into the gym for spring volleyball in the different leagues around the
Recovered Chargers area 
--------------------------~

face streaking Raiders 
Associated Press 

Considers retirement 
to tonight. "Next is the home fieldSAN DIEGO -There's no doubt (advantage in the playoffs). We'reSan Dic:go Chargers Coach Don not going to pull in our horns."

Coryell is feeling a bit more confi­

Holmes to fight only for top purse 
"The Raiders have the best recorddent heading into tonight's National 

are the t:..-•• we'll have our Assoclated Press Holmes' publicity men. "He's think­ly for a record purse. " said Coryell, ing about it, but he's also thinking ). Bruce Miller, Page's attorney, 
alongside NEW YORK -An aide to Larry about (No. 1 contender) Greg Page said he had wired Charles Lomax, at­las, each 11-2. Holmes said yesterday the un­and (World Boxing Association torney for promoter Don King, a fumble and a defeated World Boxing Council champion) Gerrie Coetzee." saying that Canadian interests were the Redskins heavyweight champion is consider­Holmes faces a mandatory prepared to bid for a Holmes-Page 
) and we did ing retiring but has not ruled out an­defense with Page in February or fight. 24-23), so I think other fight for the right money. March but said last Saturday that he Asked ifhe thought Holmes might "It is premature to say he's would only consider fighting once fight Page if it paid more than the 
retiring,' said Dick Lovell, one of more, against Coetzee, and then on-S2.5 million King has offered, Miller said, "If that's the problem, we can do something about that." 
Then, on Tuesday night, Holmes told The Associated Press that he could announce his retirement as early as next week. He had scheduled a press conference at his hotel in Phillipsburg, NJ., for next Wednesday, but then called it off. 
Originally, the champion had planned to criticize WBC officials for threatening to withdraw title recognition from him if he refused to fight Page, but then it appeared he might use the occasion to announce his retirement. 
"It's not definite I will announce it next week, but ifnot, it will be in the very near future," Holmes told the AP. "I told my wife in the ring (after his one-round knockout of Marvis Frazier last Friday night) that I was through. I told her again tonight
clinch the championship of the 
(Tuesday) and she smiled."
American Football Conference's Holmes, 34, is undefeated in 45 
Western Division. 

professional fights and has defendedA victory or tie tonight would the heavyweight title I 7 times sincediminate second-place Seattle, 7-6, beating Ken Norton for the crownand give the Raiders their ninth Wes­June 9. 1978.
tt:rn Division title in 12 years. 

He has talked about retirement onLos Angdes comes into tht: gam~: and off for some time but that is not
from a 27-12 romp ovt:r the New unusual for boxers. Muhammad AliYork Giants. 
announced his retirement"We've got some momeniUm 
times, once one week before a titlt­going and we want to keep win­defense against Joe Bugner, when,ning." said Raiders Coach Tom 
according to promoter Bob Arum,
Flores, who has a simple list ofgoals he already had a signed contractfor tht: remaining three weeks ofthe 
Photo 

a championship fight against
The Los Angeles Raiders will attempt to clinch "The first thing is to win the divi­the AFC West Division title with a win over the quarterback Dan Fouts, who led San Diego to a sion championship," he said, looking 31-7 victory overDenver last week. 
season. are on the winning track again with the return of 
revived San Diego Chargers tonight. The Chargers 









