~----------~------­
• • • Basford-page 14 

VOL. XVII, NO. 109 the imkpemknt stutlent newspaper serYing notre Jame anti saint mary's THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 1983 
Burke investigates soph election result 
By KEVIN BINGER Zahm was the only one where Campus Campaign Reporter someone who wanted to vote was turned away," said Koegel. He added 
Allegations that some sopho­that the two sophomores who were mores were not allowed to vote turned away at Flanner were given Tuesday in the junior class election the opportunity to return later to are being investigated, according to vote, but never returned. Student Body President Lloyd 
Burke. The investigation will not be com· 

John Decker, presidential can­pleted before the runoffs today. But didate for the Mob ticket, charged Burke said that "ifthe first election is that the extremely close election declared invalid, then the second 
was invalid since various polling election (the runoff)· is also negated places ran out of ballots, hindering and a new election will be re­some voters. quired." Koegel stated that Breen­"We're going to look into all the Phillips also ran out of ballots but allegations and take any appropriate created provisional ballots so that action," said Burke. He noted that if one more student could vote. He they find that the election for junior said that this is what should have 
class officers was unfair, they will ask been done at Zahm and what would the Student Senate to declare the have been done at Flanner had the election invalid. two sophomores there returned. 

Mike Schmitt's ticket came in first in Tuesday's election, receiving 34 The Ombudsmen were forced to Ted Snider, director of the Sacred Heart Boys' percent of the votes cast. Vince estimate the number of students of Choir, pauses in front ofCrowley Music Hall to Hockett's ticket finished second each class in each dorm, according instruct a member of the choir. The group took with 33 percent -accruing only to Koegel, because the student list nine fewer votes than Schmitt's tick­they received from the registrar's et. Decker's ticket garnered 32 per­office was not broken down by dorm 'Operation Brainstorm' contest cent, only four votes behind and class. Hockett's. 
Decker said that any sophomore "There is no doubt, though, that it 

Winner proposes undergrad club 

votes that were not received be­was our responsibility to get the cause of lack of ballots could have right number of ballots to the By KATHLEEN DOYLE The Chautauqua Ballroom is the bars" in order to enhance and com­influenced the results. He feels that dorms," said Koegel. Assistant News Editor suggested location for the club, but plete the Undergraduate Club's he should be included on the runoff the idea may not be realized for a commitment to providing an atmos· ballot along with Schmitt and Hock­As the investigation progresses, "A virgin Mary, please." year or more. phere that would be similar to a real ett. Decker continues to lobby for his A Bloody Mary without the al­"It's a great idea," James McDon­bar. 
Tom Koegel, director of the Om­right to be a part of the run-off, and cohol would be one drink available nell, Director of Student Activities "Students want a place to go on a budsmen and supervisor of the stresses his tickets strengths. "We at the proposed Undergraduate said. ''It would be a positive action consistent basis, to hang out at," elections said that Decker would not wanted to do something original and Club, the winning idea in the on behalf of the University to McDonnell said. "The club will have appear on the runoff ballot because have fun," said Decker. "It's not the "Operation Brainstorm" contest. provide a regular nonalcoholic to be open on a regular basis to be only one student had actually been same old junk that you hear year af­The club would also place emphasis place for students to go. And the stu­successful. One of the reasons unable to vote. ter year. If we did win we'd do the on dancing, popul<l;r music, and dents have demonstrated, through Chautauqua is not the success it 
"As far as we know the situation in job and work hard at it." lighting. their response to 'Chance to Dance,' could be is that the ballroom has that they want to dance. However, many uses. It must be decorated there is concern with the location of properly." 
the Placement Bureau." McDonnell has suggested putting 
The Placement Bureau currently booths in the south alcove of the holds interviews during the day in ballroom. He would also like to the Chautauqua Ballroom. The Un­make the 2D meeting room into a 
PACE update 


Report examines social centers 
dergraduate Club-proposal made by game room. junior Pete Ciotta does not mention "There is a problem with interior 

By DAVID DZIEDZIC tivities Dr. James McDonnell. Top administrators speak of the having the club open for business aesthetics," McDonnell said. "We 
and MARGARET FOSMOE The report concludes that "it has fear of a "white elephant" -a new 
during these hours. Ciotta only sug­
or center

Executive News Editors not been convincingly renovated-student not 
gests that the club "be open on a
utilized by students. Father David 'THURSDAY­demonstrated that any new facility, regular basis, maintaining regular

Editor's note: The following is the no matter how expensive, will be Tyson, executive assistant to the the hours on specific nights." second of a two-part series on the 
president and a member ofthe PACE 
"The Undergraduate Club is not 


-;FQCUS

. committee says, "The committee
PACE Report recommendations for 
only feasible, but necessary," said

1 went in with the idea of a student
student social life. 
Andy Abrams, Chautauqua manager.
center, but now we're not sure." 
"The students have expressed went so far with Chautauqua, but the 

The PACE (Priorities and Com­
Senior Maureen Burns, executive through their participation in rest ofthe renovations must be com­
coordinator of Student Govern­

mitments to Excellence) Report adequately utilized." It is for this 'Chance to Dance' their willingness pleted. We will need to place double "seems to indicate there will not be reason that the PACE committee ment, says "I don't know how much 
to become involved in nonalcoholic doors at the top ofthe stairs and the 

a new center" Notre pursuing faith to put into the PACE Report."
student at recommended the 
social activities. It is no longer a glass arch should, be sealed. The Un­
Burns was a member of the Student

Dame, says Director of Student Ac-program ofsatellite social centers. question ofwill it work-it has. The dergraduate Club will need to be anLife Needs Assessment conducted 
administration's main problem with entity in itself"
by Student Government last year. 
the idea concerns the Placement Other problems, such as the need
The assessment was conducted by 
Bureau." for refrigeration and water, neither
David Murday, brother of 1981-82 
Originally Abrams set a minimum of which are presently available in
Student Body President Don Mur­
success rate ofbetween 150 and 200 the Chautauqua Ballroom, were
day. The committee visited five 
people for "Chance to Dance." Be· cited by Van Wolvlear. There is also 
other universities last spring to 
tween 300 and 500 students have a need for drainage. In addition, he 
compare their social life and student 
been attending each Friday. has not yet heard the result ofhis bid 
centers to those ofNotre Dame. 
"The Undergraduate Club idea on the bar and this is also "holding us
"A new building drums up inter­
has definite merit, but little can be up," he said. 
est. It draws a crowd. People will 
done until Placement moves," said "Little changes have been made in
have pride in it if it is well designed," 
Father John L. Van Wolvlear, vice­Chautauqua," Abrams said. "Let's Burns said. 
president of Student Affairs. "We not continue making little changes. 
The proposed program involves 
need something that will stay and I When we are trying to do this, we
creating a series o~ "satellite social 
don't think there can be a per­should do it right. Chautauqua needs
centers" such as Senior Bar and the 
manent club until then." aesthetic changes and acoustic
Engineeering Auditorium revolving 
Van Wolvlear has taken some ac-modifications.
around a central cluster composed 
. tion on the idea. After consulting "There are two things that are
of LaFortune Student Center, Wash­
Ciotta for his opinion, Van Wolvlear needed for the ;_dea of the Under­
ington Hall and the Center for Social 
made a bid on a portable cherry and graduate Club to be realized. Place­Concerns. 
oak bar which would be placed in ment has needs, but we could meet
McDonnell says, "I think this plan 
the Chautauqua Ballroom. Ciotta these and have the club. Someone
(for satellite centers) is a mistake. 
had proposed that the nonalcoholic See CLUB, page 5See PACE, page 6 drinks be served from "two real 



-------------·-------~~----------~~~-----------------------------­


NewsBrie,b 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 

Doctor A. Robert Caponigri, philosophy 
professor and member at the University for 35 years, died yesterday in his South Bend home. Capanigri was scheduled to visit Spain later this year to receive a government prize for translating the work of Spanish philosopher Xavier Zubiri. Winner of the Fullbright and Rockefeller fellowship awards, he was the author, editor, or trans­lator of I 7 books and numerous scholarly papers dealing with the history of modern and contemporary philosophy. He also wrote on aesthetics, humanities, and liberal education. Caponigri served as visiting professor or fellow at several American universities as well as at the Universities of Madrid and Rome, Harvard's Center for Italian Renaissance Studies, and the American University ofBeirut in Lebanon. He lectured at Italian universities in Genova, Padua. Bologna, Parma, Perugia, Pavia, Milano, and Torino, and at Spanish universities at' Cordoba, Valencia, and Salamanca. Funeral services are set for Saturday at Notre Dame. -The Observer 
Corby's liquorlicensewas renewed yesterday. at­ter the owner Harold Rowley met with Alcoholic Beverage Board members to discuss underage drinking at the bar. Corby Tavern originally was charged with selling alcoholic beverages to minors and hindering law enforcement during a raid by South Bend police last October. Since the bar did not have any current violations against it, renewal of the license was automatic. -The Observer 
Authorities say an unemployed computer 
programmer in Glennallen, Alaska, went on a shooting rampage in a snowbound, backcountry village, killing six oflts 22 residents before he fled in a snowmobile and was arrested by troopers. In custody at Anchorage, charged with six counts offrrstdegree murder, was 39­year-old Louis D. Hastings. He was held yesterday in lieu of 5300,000 bond, and authorities said they had no clue to what prompted the shootings. Christopher Richards, one oftwo injured survivors ofthe violence in the town ofMcCarthy, told police he remembered vivid­ly the words ofthe man who shot him Tuesday: "look, you're already dead. Ifyou'll just quit fighting, I'll make it easy for you." Instead, the 29-year-old Richards said, he grabbed a knife, slashed his assailant and fled in his stocking feet into the snow. -AP 
An estimated 125 million viewers watched the 
final episode of"M*A*S*H," making the audience the largest for any single TV show ever broadcast, CBS said today. CBS' estimate was based on a rating from the A.C. Nielsen Co. for the 2-1/2-hour program broadcast Monday night of 60.3. That eclipsed by good measure the previous record of53.3 for the "Who Shot JR.?" episode ofCBS' "Dallas," shown Nov. 21, 1980. Further, nearly eight ofevery 10 TV sets in use nationwide during the broadcast of"M*A*S*H" ­77 percent -were tuned to CBS. The "M* A *S*H" finale, for which advertisers paid as much as 5450,000 for a 30-second commercial, atttracted nearly 10 million homes more than "Who Shot JR.?" ­
50.3 million to 40.7 million. A single ratings point is worth 833,000 homes today, an increase from 763,000 in 1980. The audience­estimate breaks the record for a single show of 111.5 million, NBC's calculation for Super Bowl XVII last Jan. 30. ABC's recently broad­cast "Winds of War" miniseries drew an estimated 140 million viewers, but that was for an 18-hour production carried over seven nights. -AP 
Ralph David Abernathy, veteran civil rights leader, has returned to a Baltimore hospital for brain surgery aimed at preventing a second strokt;. After suffering a mild stroke Jan. 21, Abernathy, 56, was flowri to Johns Hopkins Hosptal for treatment, but was sent home to eecover before the surgery. Abernathy was readmitted Tuesday. No date has been set for the surgery. Abernathy is president emeritus of the Southern Christian Leadership Con­ference and was a top aide to the late Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. 
The federal governmentagreed yesterday to ac­cept 52 million from a Texas oil driller to settle all claims arising from the largest oil spill in hislory, a 1979 blowout in the Gulf of Mexico that took nine months to clean up. The agreement was filed in U.S. District Court in Houston. It resolves a complicated lawsuit between the Justice Department and Sedco Inc., founded by former Texas Gov. Bill Clements. Sedco had leased the rig to Permargo, a Mexican outfit that had an exploration contract with the Mexican national oil company Pemex. TheJustice Department had sought to recover $12.5 million in cleanup costs from Sedco and Permargo and had asked an unspecified amount for the cleanup work along the south Texas coast. The well, Ixtoc I, blew upJune 3, 1979, at a depth of 6,207 feet below the seabed. It had been a test well drilled in a field in the Bay ofCampeche that is estimated to contain at least 33.6 billion gallons of crude oil. Initially. the well spewed 1.2 million gallons ofoil a day and billows of natural gas. About half the oil was burned off but the rest spread onto the beaches of Texas despite efforts to collect it with flotation collars. The Justice Department said it agreed to the settlement because it believes "there were sub­stantial legal obstacles to recovery." Among those was a trial court decision March 30, 1982, which held that Sedco's drilling rig was a "vessel" in the definition of the Limitation of Liability Act and recovery under that act would have been limited to 5530,000. The well was 50 miles off-shore and the spill was twice as large as the worst previous one, 65.5 million gallons, when the tanker Amoco Cadiz ran aground and sank near Portsal, France, on March 16, I 978. 
-AP 

Sunny today with near record warmth. High around 70. Increasing cloudiness and mild tonight. Low in the upper 40s to low 50s. Cloudy and continued warm tomorrow. High in the mid to up­per 60s. -AP 
Thursday, March 3, 1983 -page 2 
Herschel hysteria 
Since Heisman Trophy winner Herschel Walker signed a multi-zillion dollar contract with the NewJer­sey Generals ofthe United States Football League, we've been bombarded with editorials and commentaries from the press praising his decision while accusing the National Football League and college coaches of hypocrisy for crying "foul" at the the new league's brashness. 
Well, the bombardment continues with thi~ column. But, instead ofglorifying Walker like some omnipotent deity just for succumbing to his capitalist urges, what must be considered is the fate ofall the other would-be superstars who will attempt to follow Walker's path to glory. 
The editorials to which we have been subjected late­ly, such as in the February 28 issue of The New York Times, concern themselves solely with Walker's deci­sion, while largely neglecting the negative ramifications it could have for those underclassmen who try to dupl­
Michael Monk 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Thursday 

young men, perhaps too young. Blinded by the glitter of 
gold, manymay not foresee or understand the serious 
problems and adjustments they must make on the way 
to their own shangri-las. 
The Times editorial asserts that "most athletes do not 
attend top sports schools to read history and 
philosophy." Aside from this blatantlv erroneous 
generalization, college is and should be a iot more than 
book-learning. The college years are a priceless time 
which allows young men and women the opportunity 
icate his pioneering achieve­to grow, develop, and ment. The Times calls mature before beingcast out Walker's signing "the best to the harsh "real world." play of his life" and tri­College does protect us umphantly proclaims that from the real world, but it "several times over, Mr. also prepares us for it. Many Walker is now a mil­students have a difficult lionaire." It is apparent that enough time adjusting to the the Times editorial writers rigors and demands of col­subscribe to the same lege. What is to happen to muddled way of thinking young men, many barely out that proliferates and mis­of high school, when thrust leads modern society: that of into the spotlight with equating the amount of greenbacks overflowing money one amasses with the from their pockets? Many level of success. But con­may not be mentally, as well trary to what these "get it as physically, mature while you can" moralists enough to undertake such would suggest, money does tremendous respon­not make the man. It doesn't sibilities. We need not rack even come close. our memories to recall lives 

Ido not disagree with Walker's decision itself. It was a very advantageous and wise one -for him. But now he has set the stage for other underclassmen, including sophomores and freshmen, to negotiate contracts with the second rate USFL. Unlike Walker, most ofthese ath­letes will not be offered a majority share in Fort Knox. Most will settle for one or two year contracts worth about 540-80,000 a year, big bucks now but mere peanuts in the long run. 
All of the sudden, guys just barely back from their high school proms and still suffering from acne will be flashing rolls of dough in the big city crawling with parasites and full of the fascinations of life in the fast lane. Many simply will not be able to deal with their new-found fame, fortune, and independence that such a life offers. To say that it won't happen is to ignore a potentially serious problem. Already a sophomore from Pitt says that he will sign with a USFL team before long. The lure of gold certainly will attract dozens of other shattered because of the inability to deal appropriately with the sudden onslaught of riches and public notoriety. 
There are plenty ofathletes who have made the jump from college to the pros and have successfully dealt with their new found wealth and fame. But never before has the prospect of so many college juniors, sopho­mores, and freshmen pursuing glamorous careers in a pro sport been so prominent. For every one that makes the jump successfully, there will be another unable to deal with the pressures and adjustments. These are the athletes that need the four college years to grow, develop, and mature. 
·Wisdom and maturity do not necessarily come with age. But in this brutal battle being fought out in the lawyers offices and college campuses across the country for quick money and instant stardom, let's not throw the soldiers into the war until they've had a chance to learn how to fight. 

Design Editor.... . .............. Tim Neely Design Assistant ... Mary Healy Typesetters... ...Jim MacLennan 
AI Novas News Editor........ .....Jeff Harrington Copy Editor... .. ... Beth Hackett Feature.o.; Layout ....... ..........Joe Musumeci Editorials Layout..... .. ......... Tari Brown B&T Layout... .. . .................. Ed Konrady 
Alex Szlvia~ 

.Sports Copv Editor..... .... Mike Sullivan ND Dar hditor. ... Ann Bailey SMC Day Editor .................. Tari Brown TJ'Pists ... . ................. \larv Beth Porter Ad Oesign .... .. ...... Marilyn Larkin Photographer... ..... Paul Ciforcllo 
Guest Appearances . ........ Variou~ pow~:r· 
monger' and power-hooker~ and Tom MacLennan 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) os published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacatoon peroods The Observer IS publoshed by the ~tudents of Notre Dame and Saont Marys Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntong The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indoana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproductoon nghts are reserved 
Second class postage paod at Notre Dame. lndoana 46556 
.·~ . 


WEDNESDAY MARCH 9, 1983 8 pm 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $5.50 &$6.50 AT SU BOX OFFICE 
AFTERWARDS BRING YOUR TICKET STUBS TO RAFFERTY'S FOR DRINK SPECIALS 211D REQUIRED 



----~ ---~-­

--------------------------. The Observer Thursday, March 3, 1983 -page 3 
Marian Wright Edelman 


SMC chooses graduation speaker 
By SUSAN O'HARA 
StaffReporter 
Marian Wright Edelman, presi­dent of the Children's Defense Fund has been chosen to deliver the 1983 commencement address at Saint Mary's College. 
Edelman was selected because her life, works and achievements provide a role-model for the women of Saint Mary's, according to joan Holland, chairperson of the com­mencement committee. 
Edelman has been active in civil rights and public interest affairs and is noted for her "tireless committ­ment to the poor and her devotion to justice," said Holland, who also acts as assistant to the President at Saint Mary's. Referring to Edelman as "the finest of role models," Holland said the civil rights leader embodies qualities and values that are "worthy of emulation by our students ­qualities such as compassion, con­cern and justice." 
Edelman was born in Bennet­tsville, So. Carolina, and attended Yale Law School and Spelman Col­lege, where she presently chairs the Board of Trustees. After graduating from Yale in 1963, Edelman founded and directed the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund Office in jackson, Miss., and became the first black woman admitted to the Mississippi bar. 
•

Bettcher lecture 

Director advocates 'natural order' 
By BILL HOGAN 
News Staff 
Natural family planning "respects 
the natural order" and "increases 
couple-centered love," said Mrs. Janet Bettcher last night, in a lecture sponsored by the Thomas More Society. 
Bettcher, director of the South Bend clinic for Natural Family Plan­ning (NFP), began her talk by classifying the natural order as did Saint Augustine and Saint Thomas Aquinas: "creation defined and or­dered by God. Man is a creature of God, and he has a certain nature and order," said Bettcher. 
For man, natural law involves "the moral use of human faculties in con­cert with the reason for its creation," said Bettcher. Because married-love is fundamentally "creative, there must be harmony between married love and the creation of life. The components of the human anatomy show this," she said. 
Using slides, Bettcher demonstrated that a couple can determine the woman's fertility through attention to uterine mucous flo"" and basal body tem­perature. Both indicators increase during the fertile period of a woman's menstrual cycle. 
If the woman is fertile the couple has a "decision to make," said Bet­tcher. They may decide to "avoid a pregnancy" through abstinence, which "is in harmony with a woman's natural cycle," said Bet­tcher. 
"Mother Teresa of Calcutta teaches Natural Family Planning," stated Bettcher. "At least one sister in every house is familiar with it." 
Bettcher related the unnatural­ness and dangers of the various forms of contraception: "Birth con­trol pills interfere with ovulation. IUD's (intra-uterine devices) have an abortifacient effect," preventing the fertilized egg from implanting in the uterine wall. Women often ex­perience an "inflammatory response" to IUD's, which "can cause sterilization and perforation of the uterus," she added. 
Spermicidal foams and jellies "double the number of birth defects 
In 1968 Edelman started the 
Washington Research Project, now 
the Children's Defense Fund, and 
has served as the director since its 
inception. CDF was organized to 
defend and expand the rights of 
children through the courts and has 
promoted the cause of quality child 
care. 
Edelman has traveled to Hanoi as 
a member of the President's Com­
mission on MIA's and now serves as a 
board member for the German Mar­
shall Fund, the NAACP Legal 
Defense and Education Fund, the 
Aetna Life and Casuality Foundation, 
the Atari Institute and Essence 
Magazine. She is also a member of 
the District of Columbia bar and the. 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
bar. 
Edelman has received numerous honorary degrees and in 1971 was named by Time magazine as one of America's 200 young leaders. 

The selection process for a com­mencement speaker is a long one which begins in the spring with sug­gestions submitted from the stu­dents of the junior class, Regents, Alumnae Board, Parents' Council members, faculty and ad­ministrators. The compiled list of candidates is reviewed, screened and edited by the Academic Affairs Council, which is comprised of ten members ofthe President's commit­tee. 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival Fashion Show Committee presents 
"A MASTERPIECE" 
· a student fashion show 
Saturday March 5, 1983 8:00PM Monogram Room, Notre Dame ACC Tickets available in the Black Studies Office 345 O'Shaughnessy Limited tickets-Admission $4.50-Dance Follows 
College of Science presents.•. 
TAKE A PROF. TO LUNCH 
MARCH 7 ·11 
Students, this is your chance to 
invite your favorite professor or TA 

to lunch in the 
South Dining Hall. 
register at least one day vance at the Dean's n,,,,..,..... College of Science. 
Iffound to exemplify the qualities Saint Mary's seeks to foster in its stu­dents, the list of candidates is presented to the Board of Regents for final approval, according to Hol­land. 
This years honorary degree reCipients include Father john Catoir, Frances Moore Lappe, Mic­hael Mott, and Rosalyn S. Yalow. 
Catoir, director of the Christop­hers , received a doctorate in Canon Law from Catholic University in 1964, and is author of the national bestseller Enjoy the Lord. Lappe is co-founder of the Institute for Food and Development Policy, a non­profit public education and documentation center. A member of the faculty at Bowling Green State University, Mott has written several books on poetry and presently is finishing the official biography of Thomas Merton. Yalow, the final recipient, is the second woman ever to win the Nobel Prize in medicine and currently is chairman of the department of clinical sciences at the Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center in the Bronx. She is a distin­guished professor-at-large at the Al­
bert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University. 
The College also awards the Presi­dent's medal to someone whose service merits recognition. This year that award will be given to jerry Hammes, the vice-president of the Board of Regents. 
Richard Steele (right), a South African currently living in Elkhart, leads a discussion group on conditions in South Africa. Steele, who will be returning to his native country next month, is strongly opposed to the mandatory service now required in the South African army. He spoke last night at the Center for Social Concerns. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 
~iglJt.& nftlft <!Iastlt 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry & Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Haircut only $6 with coupon 
(Hair must be washed day of cut) 
272·0312 277·1691 ($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 
54533 Terrae• Lane, South Bend(Acrosa from­Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 SAT. 8:30-5:30 

After your lastexam, whattoughquestions will you still befacing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: , 
Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 46556 
219-239-6385 
(in the children of) women who use 
them," said Bettcher, because they 
are "intended to alter or kill sperm." 
The "barrier methods" of the diaphragm and condom "interfere with the natural act," said Bettcher. 
With one partner or the other "armored or medicated against pregnancy," contended Bettcher, these methods of contraception 


"interfere. with the God-given rela­
tion between sexual intercourse and 
the married life." 
NFP, on the other hand, can be "quite a vehicle for communication between the man and woman," said Bettcher. It is "non-sexist" because it entails "dual responsibility and continence on both parts." 
Bettcher said that it has been found that natural family pia ..nning "increases generosity, self-sacrifice, self-control, and trust, and deepens sexual harmony" between marital partners. There is a one percent divorce rate among couples who practice NFP. 
Natural family planning should not be another means of contracep­tion, said Bettcher. The natural or­der of"conjugallove" means that "in couples there must be an openness to new life." 
----·--·-·-----------­
The Observer Thursday, March 3, 1983 -page 4 


•'g{)Qwe~tg fp~ oQQ -occm~iotm ·· 
_Come-in and Brows~ 
327 lincolnway. 232-3354 



CABINET POSITIONS OPEN!! 
Interested in working with Student Government next year? 
Get an application from your Hall Pres. or in the Student Government Office today!! Deadline for Applications Monday, 5PM 
r~~---~-------~-------~ 
~  c::J\fotu. :bam:: -~'aintcJ111myi f'Jhwh7. qJ..o.Ef1tj_ t  
~ISpecial Offer!  I  
I  1  


Soviet 'peace meeting' 



Miners' protest seems orchestrated 
DONETSK, U.S.S.R. (AP) -The Soviet government cheers when anti-war demonstrators take to the streets in the West, but keeps its own peace meetings indoors and ensures they are carefully con­trolled. 
At Donetsk's Chelyutsin coal mine this week, 600 workers crowded in­to a meeting hall during their lunch hour for 45 minutes of protests against the North Atlantic Treaty Or­ganization's plans to deploy new U.S. nuclear missiles in Western Europe late this year. 
The men were in spotless miners' uniforms creased, with no trace of coal dust on their boots, hats and lamps. 
Like Western demonstrators, they carried placards -"down with the nuclear arms race," "Do not permit nuclear catastrophe." 
A cowboy looking like Ronald Reagan was on one poster, balancing precariously on a tightrope with a misile in one hand and the letters "MX" in the other. 
But these demonstrators did not wave their banners. They held them still while four cameras from Soviet Television photographed them. 
The Soviet Union has staged a series ofsuch meetings and the offi­cial Soviet news agency Tass carries news reports on the meetings. The West German government of Chan­cellor Helmut Kohl, who favors the missile deployment, has protested that the meetings and Tass reports amount to meddling in Sunday's West German elections. 
There was no cheering or chant­ing by the coal miners, just applause after each speech from a podium adorned with a large red banner proclaiming that miners from the region opposed nuclear arms. 
The first speaker, Mikhail Kukhar of the miners' union, recited a ten­minute litany of alleged Western 



Corby's 
Thursday Night Special 
misdeeds familiar to any student of the Soviet media. After loud ap­plause, five workers took the stand to read statements. The message in each was the same -peace without new American missiles in Europe. 
A pensioner remembered the fight against Nazism. The only woman to speak appealed to West German mothers to stop their children from dying in the holocaust 
threatened  by  the  new  American  
weapons.  
The  parade  of speakers  ended  

with a mine official, Valentin 

Sokolov, who read the text ofaletter 
from the workers to their comrades in West Germany. It argued that Soviet missiles are "not first-strike weapons" but "a missile shield and not a sword. ... a means of defense against U.S. nuclear weapons that have long been deployed in the Federal Republic of Germany and other NATO countries." 
There was no applause after the 
reading of the letter.  Instead, the  
workers  were  asked  if  they  ap­ 
proved  the  text.  All  raised  their  

hands. Then the meeting broke up. 

Pope John Paul II arrives in Costa Rica 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica (AP) ­
Pope John Paul II arrived yesterday 
with messages ofhope and peace for 
Central America -a region shat­
tered by violence that has killed 
100,000 people in the past five 
years. 
The pontiffs plane touched ground at 3:24p.m. (4:24p.m. EST) after a 14-hour flight from the Vatican with a stopover in Portugal. 
Hundreds of thousands of resi­dents ofthis heavily Roman Catholic nation of 2.5 million -an oasis of political calm in a troubled area ­lent a festive atmosphere to the Len­ten season, generally a time of penance for the faithfuL 
John Paul kissed the ground at San Jose's Juan Santamaria Airport, repeating a gesture from his three previous trips to Latin America, and then rode 18 miles to the city to meet with Central American bis­hops. Rain stopped just before the arrival, butskies remained overcast. 
Cheering Costa Ricans waved and 
held aloft signs saying "Te 



Molson Ale Bottles 

$1~00 

Go ND Basketballers! 

queremos, Juan Pablo," Spanish for "We love you, John PauL" All busi­ness shut down at noon, and the government virtually stopped operations for the rest of the week, as the whole country appeared to want to make the best impression possible. 
Costa Rica was playing up the religious aspect ofthe event. "We do not have to use his visit for propaganda purposes," said a government official. He asked not to be identified, apparently so he would not offend neighboring countries the pope will visit, where sensitive political issues are in­volved. 
The itinerary includes El Salvador where a full-blown guerrilla war has devastated the country and Nicaragua where the traditional church is under attack by a guerrilla­led government. 
The Vatican has emphasized that the visit is strictly pastoral, but the pope will face political pressures that are bound to be as difficult as 
any he has faced in his  16 other  
foreign trips.  
The  prospect  of the  visit  has  

brought joy and expectation to many of the people of Costa Rica, which is politically calm but is suffering severe social and economic problems. 
A dreary, windswept rain did not keep city employees from draping pedestrian overpasses with evergreens, banners and flowers. 
The road to the seminary, where the Pope meets with 55 Central American bishops, was lined by mid­day with civil guard troops, sta­tioned about 100 feet apart. They were unarmed but carried rope whips and clubs for crowd controL 
Government expectations for the turnout at an open-air Mass in Sabana Park today reach 1 million ­more than a third of Costa Rica's population. 

EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay during your junior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciences, find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. 
For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: 
1-800-382-3782 

The Observer 
Personnel departments promote summer work 
By AMY STEPHAN 
.VewsStajf 
Still searching for summer 
employment? There might be a sum­
mer job tor you under the Dome. 
The personnel department of :'1/otre Dame will begin accepting ap­plkations f()r summer employment this .\1onday. The Saint Mary's per­sonnel oftke will begin accepting applications March 1S. 
Acc~rding to Carol Seager of the :\lotre Dame personnel department. it is still too early to determine how many positions will be available this year. However, she said that ap­proximately 225 jobs were available last summer. 
Seager explained that her office has contacted the various super­visors and department heads concerning their need for summer employees. The department heads have until April 1 to state their re­quirements for summer workers. 
Soon after the April I deadline, the personnel office will begin to match applicants to available jobs, according to Seager. Therefore, al­though the department has not set a deadline for accepting applications, Seager stated "It would be to their (the applicants') advantage to have their applications in by April I." 
Saint Mary's personnel depart­ment has not yet determined exactly what jobs will be available this sum­mer, according to the office of the assistant director of personnel. The Saint Mary's office will be accepting applications until May 15. 
Jobs in both schools fall into three 
continuedfrom page 1 
must meet with Placement and assure them that they could still set up the partitions for the interviews, as they do now. The atmosphere may even be more conducive for holding interviews. The other re­quirement involves the students. The students need to say 'we want an Undergraduate Club.' We need student support to generate ad­ministration support," he con­tinued. 
Abrams suggests building a disc jockey booth in Chautauqua. The set-up now used for "Chance to Dance" presents acoustic problems and Abrams believes a built-in booth would solve these problems and im­prove the sound quality. He also would like to see a wide screen television placed in the ballroom. Football games, popular soap operas, MTV, and feature television movies would be shown, making the Undergraduate Club into something of a coffeehouse at those times. Abrams believes the club should be open seven days a week. 
"'The money for the club is here," said Abrams. "The Student Union made money this year. But the ad­ministration, the Student Union, and the Student Government must see the students show an interest in this before they'll allot the money. One dollar of each student's activity fee, which is included in the tuition, could be allocated for the renova­non of Chautauqua. But students must let them know they want this. Maybe there should be a referen­dum to show the administration how much student support there is. 
"'Whether or not there is an Un­dergraduate Club. Chautauqua is there. so the students should enjoy it. Suppon or lack of support for Chautauqua may . determine whether Chautauqua will go under or become the Undergraduate Club," Abrams continued. 
Abrams' term as Chautauqua manager will end April 1 Ciotta. who proposed thf' Undf'fgraduate main categories. Service job t s in­clude groundskeeping, paint crew. and maintenance: clerical jobs in­volve working in an office or in the library; and technical jobs involve work as a lab assistant or computer programmer. 
Seager specified that those apply­ing for jobs at Notre Dame are asked to indicate on their application 
three of eighteen general  areas  in  
which  they  are  interested  in  
working.  

Last year 600 applicants applied for 225. jobs. according to Seager. A priority system i;> in effect at both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame which places students of each respective school third in order of hiring priority out of a list ofseven general applicant-categories. 
Seager commented. "I don't want the students to think they're at the bottom of the list." 
Salaries vary from job to job with­in each school. Summer jobs at Saint Mary's pay between S3.3S and S4 per hour. Salaries for jobs at Notre Dame have not yet been determined, ' but according to Seager, there will be two basic pay­rates. 
The personnel office at Notre Dame is located in Brownson Hall and is open from 8 a.m. to noon and from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Saint Mary's person­nel office is open from 8 a.m. until 
4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Seager noted that students must complete a new application every summer. 
• • • Club 
Club, has applied for the position. Ciotta is hoping that he will be able to do more for the club by working from that post. 
"I like the Undergraduate Club idea," McDonnell said. "In January, I attended a conference in Illinois. One of the items that came up was alcohol prevention. At the Univer­sity of Minnesota, a group has created a nonalcoholic, alternative bar." 
The University of Minnesota al­ternative bar is funded through a grant from the Minnesota Student Association and sponsored by a 

Thursday, March 3, 1983 -page 5 

joan Spohrer, her husband George, Peggy Hayes, and Bill Kovalcik (left to right) illustrate their sentiments toward balancing a job and marriage during a "Dual Careers Couples Talk." last night. (Photo by Paul Cifarel/i) 
Amoco grant 'not enough' 
Engineering school lacks funds 
ByJACK AMARO 
News Staff 
The Amoco Foundation grant of $300,000 to the engineering depart­ment of Notre Dame will not be enough to give all the help necessary to update the computer laboratory of the college, according to James Taylor, associate dean of engineer­ing. 
"The college did not have ade­
quate facilities from the beginning. 
For that reason we were never able 
to keep our computers up to date 
with our needs," said Taylor. "The 
grant is a big improvement, but it is 
not enough to supply computer 
capability for all ofour needs." 
The foundation's grant, the largest 
one yet, will be given to the Univer­
sity to fund a modernization of the 
computer facilities for the engineer­
ing department. The grant will be 
paid in five annual S60,000 install­
ments. 
Because the grant will not be given in one installment, the depart­ment will modernize in phases, said Taylor. One of the first phases will be the addition ofthree-dimensional compugraphics and touch sensitive a very high priority but it is also very expensive. We have to buy a bigger central processing unit and more terminals for the labs and the in­structors." 
A recently acquired asset are ten Apple II computers donated to the University by Apple after being used in the World's Fair in Tennessee. According to Taylor, Albert Miller, professor of engineering, will use these computers to give experience to freshman engineers in his class. 
The engineering department is working with the development office in the administration to get more needed computers so that in the near future the department will be able to give students what they need. According to Taylor, "new computers to help the computer needs of the engineering depart­

ment is one of the highest priorities of the development office." Taylor stressed the fact that the Amoco Foundation gift is not enough to ful­fil1 all of the needs of the college. "The gift will help," said Taylor, "but we need more than this". 




The Observer Thursday, March 3, 1983 -page 6 


About 400 members of the U.S. 25th Infantry Division's Quick Reaction Force arrive at Osan 
U.S. Air Force base in South Korea Tuesday. They 
I 
-o~
1-\
I 

were moved to participate in the annual U.S. ­Korea joint Military traning exercises "Team Spirit '83." (AP Photo) 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4 -7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
..y 
J

~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
---===-Y_O_U'_RE_W_A_S_TI_N_;_G_YO_U_R_M_O_NE_Y_B_UY_I_NG_A_N_YW_H_E_R_E_EL_S_E!_t!i 
LIQUOR 

KINGS CELLAR VALUE GIN OR VODU
399 499 799 
750 IlL 1.0LITU 1.75LITU 
429

GORDON'S VODKA 750 IlL 
499
GORDON'S GIN 750 IlL 
719
JACK DANIELS 750 IlL WINDSOR 
10
19 
CANADIAN 1.75 LITU 

KESSLER'S BLEND 1.75 Llllt 911 
1019 
SEVEN CROWN 1.1s urb 
g•
CASTILLO RUM 1.75 LITER 
819
J &BSCOTCH 750 ML 
JIM BEAM BOURBON usuru 

10" 
WINES

~ 
BLACI TOWER LIEBFRAUMILCH 75111L 

QUARTS 349 
MILLER LITE ..... 8.99 
BUD ....•....... 9.29 
MANISCHEWITZ 75111L PINA·STRAWIERRY 

2Foa5°0 MILWAUKEE ... 7.49 
COCONEnA
OLD 
ZONIN

~ , . ·t ,· ASTI SPUMANTE 750 ML 4'. 
-.r•r• 
4"

t.,'TAYLORCHAMPAGNES 750 IlL 
.. ......J 
CHRISTIAN IROS. 
399

CORDIALS WIIIESuullt BAILEYS IRISM CREAM 75111L 11" 
499

LEROUX AMAREnO 751ML 7" CARLO ROSSI. LITIIS KALUHA 75111L 
a• 
GALLO 
299
PREMIUMS u um
a•
FRAIIGELICO 51111L 
KIUMWIUU 
ALMADEN
PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS 751 ML 4" 
MOUNTAIN WINES u Lilli 
3" 
OUCONTE CORDIALS u ulll 4" 
E&J BRANDY 75111L 5" 
BLUE NUN 75111L 3" 





Economic indicators predict strong recovery 
WASHINGTON (AP) The government's main economic forecasting gauge shot upward 3.6 percent in january, the biggest gain in three decades and an apparent new sign that the nation's recovery from recession may be more robust than many have predicted. 
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige called his department's report yesterday "highly favorable" for recovery. And a national business group quickly raised its own forecast of 1983 U.S. economic growth. 
If anyone still doubted the nation was pulling out of the 1981I 82 recession, Baldrige said, "There has never been a gain in the leading in­dex in the past this large without an economic recovery." 
The january gain in Commerce's Index of Leading Economic In­dicators was the fifth monthly in­crease in a row and the largest since the 4.1 percent ofjuly 1950. 
The index, a compilation of 12 economic measures, is designed to show trends of the whole economy. 
Baldrige, commenting in a state­ment distributed by aides, cautioned that the January figures "should not 
• PACE 
continuedfrom page 1 
We need a central facility." 

The plan "nicely takes care of so­cial groups but it addresses only one-ninth or one-tenth of our stu­dents," he says. "I think there is in­stitutional confusion on what to do. 
"I'm confused by the PACE Report,': he continues. "It mentions several problems with student social life but offers no real solutions." 
Plans for a new student center or the renovation and expansion of LaFortune have been discussed for several years. Many complain that taFortune is an outdated and poorly used building. 
McDonnell has done research on student centers at several other uni­ve~sities, with the hope of gaining knowledge for improvements here at Notre Dame. "This center (LaFortune) is an embarassment," he says. "It was not built to be a stu­dent center." 
LaFortune was originally built in 1884 as a science hall. The east por­tion of the building was added later. The building was converted to a stu­dent center after the science depart-
KEG SPECIALS BUD LIGHT ..... 29.99 MICHELOB •.... 35.99 GENERIC ..•.... 24.99 OLD 
MILWAUKEE .. 26.99 

DEPOSIT $10 KEG $45 TAP NO RENT .l.L FEE IF RETURNED WITHiN SDAYS PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE 
STORE ONLY 
SATURDAY ONLY I SATURDAY ONLY

Ir--------~---·-­
I 3-5-13 I 3-5-13 I CASTILLO I 
I I HEINEKEN
RUM
I I 
I I 
139!1 
I 3~~ML I 
I I ~ LIMIT 1PEl PUS011 LIII1T 1Pfl PfllSOI
+ 
I FRI & SAT I SATURDAY ONLY ­I STROH 1I BLUEu~ 

&
I LIGHT I NUN . 

I ! 3~~11L ~ 
LIMIT 1Pfl PIISOI 


be taken as a sign of a coming economic boom" since the index was pushed up by special factors such as unusually mild weather and a new type of bank account that swelled the measured money supp­ly. 
Most economists already were assuming an economic rebound had begun, and Undersecretary of Com­merce Robert Dederick had said Tuesday the recovery almost surely will be stronger than the administra­tion's forecast of a 3.1 percent over­
all  business  expansion  from  the  
fourth quarter of last year  to  the  
fourth quarter of 1983.  

Echoing that opinion, Alexander Trowbridge, president of the Na­tional Association of Manufacturers, said yesterday, "Based on the january numbers, we think we can revise upward our estimate of real growth in 1983 to a level of about 
3.5 percent to 4 percent, which is up over our earlier estimate of 2. 5 per­cent to 3 percent. 
"So things are looking better," he said. 
The only negative indicator was a drop in orders for new plants and equipment. 
ment moved. 
"The Huddle is not a bad place, but it serves only starch foods," McDonnell says. "Most student cen­ters around the country offer al­ternative dining facilities, such as pizza parlors, to the students." 
During his research on student centers, McDonnell says he has gained an understanding of the type of facilities necessary. "A lot of lounge space with comfortable and attractive furniture is important," he says. "A regular movie theater which shows first-run films is also a good idea." 
"If you put all these things in a building, it can operate on its own without funding from the Univer­sity," ht: said. He gave the example of the Irish Gardens flower shop which grossed 518,000 in its t1rst three months in LaFortune. 
Burns said that each student cen­ter the Assessment Committee visited last spring had its own in­dividual planning board. In LaFortune "Student Union does all the planning. There is such a proprietorship on campus,'' she said. 
Concerning LaFortune, Burns says,-"1 don't think it's adequate at all. There's been an explosion across the country and (Notre Dame) hasn't kept pace." 
Burns also mentioned the limited social space in some halls. She-con­siders each dorm "a satellite." She characterized the proposed plan as "typical of the University's band-aid approach. 
"I think they (administration members) have our interests at heart," she said. A new student cen­ter would be best, according to Burns, but she considers renovating and adding on to LaFortune "more feasible -especially since the Fieldhouse is coming down." 
When consulted by the PACE Sub­committee on Student life, McDon­nell recommended similar action. "I think it would be much cheaper to renovate and add on,'' he said. 
While no official plans for renovating LaFortune or building a new student center exist, ad­ministrators are still discussing both options. University President Father Theodore Hesburgh has commis­sioned Tyson, Father Edward Mol­loy, associate provost, and Father William Beauchamp. administrative assistant to the executive vice presi· dent, to gather information by the end ofthis semester concerning the feasibility ofa new or renovated stu­dent center. 



---~ -~-----~------------------------­
Business & Technology_Thu_rsda_y,
M_arch_3,19-83_Pa_ge7 
ments. A professor of management, the stockholders." Bella cited the best guide to He added that the role of managerial decision-making to be an regulatory authorities has grown in
Social 
examination of the position in ques­the last decade. These authorities
Enjoy Writing but 
tion itself. He advocated adopting see their task today as involving the position which was inherently more than keeping the institutions
Security 
right or true rather than basing the from failing. Regulations protecting
nevergetthechance? 
decision on the consequences potential borrowers, the com­which would result or on the beliefs munity, and other parties have ofthe majority. become increasingly common. A Quoting Father Theodore Hes­bank, for example, may be required burgh, Bella remarked, "No othe,r to reinvest funds in a low income 
to be saved 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House
Write about 
position is in the least bit defen­neighborhood where the rate of 
tax writers have embraced a $165 
sible." return is substantially lower than
. 
billion package to make Social 
Bella explained that what is right that ofalternative investments.
Security solvent again, but they are 
or ethical need not be explicitly This has resulted in an ethical
developments ? leaving it to the full House to settle a 
defined. Emphasizing the role ofthe dilemma which the financialsquabble over raising the retirement 
conscience, he stated that the manager must continually face. ag~. manager must carefully decide an Given the goal of management is to
The House Ways and Means Com­issue after taking all relevant inter­maximize profits of stockholders,
in your 
mittee was wrapping up work today 
ests into consideration. where does one differentiate be­
on the rescue package which em­
Speaking about ethical considera­tween sourid business judgement
bodies the bipartisan recommenda­
tions in the marketplace, Professor and redlining? Between duty and un­
tions ofthe National Commission on
field!! 
Mark Dunn ofthe Marketing Depart­ethical practice?
Social Security Reform. It goes to the 
ment highlighted the social respon­Numerous opportunities exist,House floor next week. 
sibility ofbusiness. Halloran said, "to violate the spirit
The committee today considered 
"Since the consumer determines while upholding the letter of the­
a series of minor amendments to the 
if you make a profit," he said, "the law."
Social Security bill and then moved 
consumer must support social "Banks view these regulations as
to take up some provisions affecting
Call Alex 
responsibility in the market." obstacles to their major respon­
the Supplemental Security Income 
Dunn sees business as willing to sibility -making profits for their
welfare program. Later it planned to 
do its part as long as consumers sup­stockholders."
consider proposals to extend un­
port it -something consumers Professor Jim Gaertner of the Ac­
239-5303 
employment benefits and Medicare 
have not yet done. countancy Department was unable
reforms before taking a final vote on 
"It's a matter ofpeople wanting us to speak as scheduled due to illness.
the entire bill. 
Engineering Update 
The United States leads the Soviet Union by a 15-1 margin in basic technologies that "have the potential for significant­ly changing the military balance in the next 10 to 20 years," a Pen­tagon report says. "This indicates that the United States has maintained its lead in most of the basic technologies critical to defense, although the Soviets are eroding the lead in some of the basic technologies," Richard DeLauer, undersecretary ofdefense for research and engineering, said in his annual report to Congress. One of the key technologies in which the United States is ahead of the Soviet Union involves "stealth" which are expected to allow development of bombers, cruise missiles and fighters that would be virtually invisible to Soviet radar, the report indicated. But the report, which became available yesterday, also said the Soviets are gaining in six technical areas of defense where the U.S. military still maintains its lead. DeLauer said the Soviets are spending nearly double U.S. outlays in an effort to close what he spoke of as the "technological gap." The Reagan administration's fiscal 1984 budget calls for $23.5 billion on rsearch, an increase of $4.8 billion over this year. 
Economic Update .­
Speaker ofthe House Tip O'Neill Jr. said today he would urge elimination of"pork barrel" provisions from a 54.6 bil­lion recesssion-relief measure heading for quick House approval. O'Neill criticized Democratic members of the House Appropria­tions Committee who added costly public works or transportation projects to the bill for their congressional districts. "I think it is wrong to do that," O'Neill said. "I will personally tell them .... I was disappointed in what they did." There is n 10 million in the bill for mass transit, most ofit designated for districts ofthe 10 members on the Appropriations subcommittee on transportation which ap­proved the S4.6 billion measure last week. Other programs critics have objected to including highway and water projects in the measure, but two senior House Democrats have said they will seek to add more money for health care and for mass transit on a national basis. Despite the criticism, quick House action on the emergency relief bill seemed certain. The measure includes funds for repair of federal buildings, road improvements and relieffor the unemployed. 
-AP 
Wall Street Update 
The stock market has shown evidence of a new, resurging economy, as the market posted a broad advance in heavy trading yesterday, topping the record highs it set the day before. Oil and precious-metals stocks, which had sold off early in the week, recorded some of the day's best gains. The DowJones average of 30 industrials, up 18.09 Tuesday, rose another 4.35 to 1,135.06. The. average has now gained 88 points since the start of the year, and nearly 360 points since Wall Street's bull market was born last August. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange reached 112.60 million shares, up from 103.75 million Tuesday. The market drew some fresh encouragement from the news that the index of leading economic indicators jumped .6 percent inJanuary. The daily tally on 
the NYSE showed about five issues rising in price for every two that declined, and the exchange's composite index jumped .85 to 87.78. Nationwide turnover in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 130.59 million shares. -AP 
Lisa project 
Apple introduces new computer 
By ALEXANDER GLOCKNER 
B&TReporter 
John Couch, vice-president of Apple Computer, Inc., demonstrated the Lisa, Apple's newest microcomputer, yesterday afternoon at the Center for Continu­ing Education. 
While it is faster and has more memory than its predecessors, Lisa's notable feature is its revolutionary easy-to-learn instructions, designed for business applications. 
Instead of requiring special lan­guages and commands to perform a task, Lisa displays, either verbally or pictorially, the options available to the user. The user then selects the option he desires with a "mouse", an indicator that can go anywhere on 
• the display by using a hand-held con­trol. 
Lisa is designed to overcome two major problems with using com­puters in the business world. Lisa solves the first problem, the length of time required for first-time users to acquaint themselves with the computer, with its software (built-in instructions), which simulates the normal business office. The TV-like display acts as an "electronic desktop", on which the user can put "documents" (reports, graphs, balance sheets, etc.), "folders", which can have documents inside them, and "filing cabinets", which can store folders. The user can also put on his desktop a clock, a cal­culator, and a garbage can which temporarily keeps documents the user no longer wants to save. 
Lisa solves the second problem, difficulty in moving data from one place to another, by storing data in a new way. Before, a computer would store data in some user-specified for­mat, and the data could only be used in that format; for example, numbers could be stored to make mathe­matics easy for the computer, but then printing those numbers on paper required a complex trans­formation. 
Now, Lisa stores the method the data will be used with the data, so the transformation is easily done by changing the stored way. 
Besides solving these problems, Lisa has many extra features. The computer can do more than one task at a time. It can talk to other Lisas with an optional cable system, store short novels in its main memory, and huge tomes on hard disks or floppy disks. Lisa includes word processing, accounting, and graphics functions, among others in its available software. Lisa can be updated to in­clude additional functions written by the user or someone else, and Apple promises to be able to make Lisa act like a standard computer, with special languages and com­mands. in the near future. 
Mr. Couch, who is the dire:tor of the Lisa project (which includes research, construction, and market­ing), also spoke about the history of Lisa. It was conceived in 1980, needed 300 person-years and $25 million to dev.. lop, with the first Lisas available in mid-April to fill the thousands ofalready existingorders. 

Ethical considerations in business discussed 
ByALEX SZIL VAS 
B&TEditor 
"Ethical Considerations and the World of Commerce" was the topic of yesterday's sixth annual Faculty Forum Justice Teach-In held in the Hayes-Healy Board Room. 
Professor Ken Milani of the Ac­countancy Department introduced a distinguished panel of professors, each ofwhom discussed the implica­tions of business ethics in their respective areas ofexpertise. 
Decision-making and leadership were the focus of Sal Bella's com­to do things which they aren't wil­ling to support." 

Dunn sees long-run corrections in the system, but "not until con­sumers support businesses which support social responsibility." 
John Halloran, Finance Depart­ment professor, spoke about the role ofethics in financial institutions. He cited the tension which exists be­tween owners, managers, and depositors in a financial institution. 
"Traditionally, regulatory authori­ties have watched out for the depositors' interests while the manager's job was to watch out for 
The Observer Thursday, March 3, 1983 -page 8 

A set of six apartments at the Village Greene Apartment complex in Greenville, N.C., were leveled by a predawn blast this morning, killing 
Pacific storm wreaks havoc in California 
CALIFORNIA (AP) -A pacific storm stalled off the coast kept California under siege yesersday with giant waves and mudslides splintering lavish homes and famous piers. Thousands of people were routed by floods up to rooftops in places. 
The death toll from the West Coast storms that began during the weekend rose to 13, with more than 50 people injured. 
Among the dead was a 3-year"old boy buried about dawn in Clear Lake, approximately 12 5 miles north of San Francisco, when a wall of mud 300 feet wide swept down a hillside and crushed his home. 
Rain, mud and rocks closed major highways and railroads and parts of Arizona and Colorado were warned to expect up to a foot of 11ew snow. Snow was already higher than houses in parts ofthe Sierra Nevada. 
"You want to know how high the water was?" asked Don Finney in one San Diego neighborhood. "Well, someone brought a boat down and mv wife easily stepped into the boat from our roof." 
The National Weather Service, noting that it was the eighth con­secutive day of rain in California, said Mount Wilson, Calif., had received eight inches of rain in the past 24 hours, bringing its total for the week to 16 inches. And no end was in sight soon. 
"We've got bands ofshowers spin­ning off a weather system stalled off­shore, and that pattern likely will continue into Thursday," said weather service forecaster Ron Wagner. 
Thundering surf as high as 16 feet shattered beachfront houses and businesses in Southern California, where 1,000 homes had been destroyed or damaged since the the latest storm hit the coast on Tuesday and about 1,000 people had been evacuated. Four landmark piers suf­fered severe damage. 
Several homes in the exclusive Los Angeles suburb of Malibu were sliding il).to the ocean, including one owned by tennis star BillieJean King and her husband, Larry. 
About 50 homes in the Santa Bar­
bara area just north of Los Angeles were destroyed or damaged by waves. 
The man-made oil island Esther, about three-quarters of a mile off Huntington Beach was destroyed by surf and 2,750 gallons of oil were floating on the suface, the Coast Guard said. 
Education department denies funds 
By LEE MITGANG 
APEducation Writer 
College officials are fighting on several fronts to change a proposed federal rule that would deny educa­tion loans to students who have not registered for the draft. 
Some schools argue that the Department of Education proposal would violate the civil rights of stu­dents; more often they object to the paperwork that would be involved in enforcing the rule. 
The proposed regulation applies to male students born in 1960 or later. The rule was announced by the Department of Education in January and, pending revisions, will take effect in May and apply to stu­dent loans for the 1983-84 school year. 
"By this means," says Education Secretary T.H. Bell, "the U.S. govern­ment is saying bluntly that taxpayer funds will not be used to provide a college education for students who do not comply with the Selective Service registration requirements." 
Yale University and Dartmouth College have countered by promis­ing to come up with money for draft resisters who stand to lose federal aid. Harvard says it is considering doing likewise. 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 
of~ e~~~ 

S -+-.S 4 " 
Q~\~ ~-1'~ 
20°/o OFF 
Good Mon-Thurs onlv 

STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student 1.0. Offer not valid with any other Aurelio's special . discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
C<RR\Oll 277 4950 -'""""'
OltOI,ll' • -\\-\JI-\IIl 
The Most Sophisticated Training Ground For NuclearEngineeringIsn't OnThe Ground. 
It's on a Navy ship. 
get them fast. Because 
The Navy has in the Navy, as your more than 1,900 knowledge grows, so do reactor-years of nuclear your responsibilities. power experience­Today's Nuclear more than anyone else Navy is one of the most in America. The Navy challenging and reward­has the most sophisti­ing career choices a cated nuclear equip­man can make. And ment in the world. And that choice can pay off the Navy operates over half of the nuclear while you're still in school. Qualified reactors in America. juniors and seniors earn approximately 
With a nuclear program like that, you $1,000 per month while they finish school. know the Navy also offers the most compre­As a nuclear-trained officer, after 4 hensive and sophisticated nuclear training. years with regular promotions and pay 
Every officer in the Nuclear Navy increases, you can be earning as much as completes a full year of graduate level $40,500. That's on top of a full benefits pack­technical training. Outside the Navy, this age that includes medical and dental care, kind of program would cost you thousands. and 30 days' vacation earned each year. In the Navy, you're paid while you learn. As a nuclear-trained officer, you also 
Then, as a nuclear-trained officer, you earn a place among this nation's most supervise highly trained personnel in the qualified and respected professionals. So, operation of the most if you're majoring in 
r-----------,
advanced nuclear NAVY OPPORTUNITY w 209 I math, engineering or 
INFORMATION CENTER
propulsion plants I the physical sciences, 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 
ever developed. You I 0 Please send me more information about 1 send in the coupon. 
get a level of technical I becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. I Find out more about
(0N) 

and management Name the most sophisti­
First (Please Print). Last 
I
I 

Apt. Il----­
experience unequalled Address ______ cated training ground anywhere else. l City _____State,_____Zip__ I for nuclear engineer­You get important I Age•---tCollege/University_____ I ing. Today's Nuclear :j:YearinCollege,_____tGPA_____ 
I

responsibilities and you Navy.
I

AMajor/Minor·-----------­
1 Phone · I L
I 
(Area Code) Best Time to Call This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to fur-I nish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we know. the more we can help to determine the kinds of Nayy posi­tions for which you qualify. MAli 9/82J 
NavyOfficers Get ResponsibilityFast. 
-~~--­
Editorials 
Thursday, March 3, 1983 -page 9 
M*A *S*H completes 11-year growth 
Television reared its powerful head again Monday, convincing even the skeptics of its ability to mesmerize the masses -to hold a nation in its grasp. 
Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 
America came to a standstill as it hadn't since President Nixon resigned. People sat glued to their television sets, or the sets of friends, or a wide-screen set in their local bars just as they did in the summer of 1969, when man first walked on the moon. 
"Goodbye, Farewell, Amen," the final episode of television's most successful series, M-A-S-H, ran on CBS Monday. With its airing, an era to rival TV's Golden years in the late 1950s drew to a close. 
In the early 1970s, CBS brought the nation a trio of situation comedies that may never be equalled in terms of quality or popularity. It began with All in the Family and The Mary Tyler Moore Show. It continued with M-A-S­
H. 

"Those two shows opened the door to us," says Alan Aida, the driving force behindM-A­S-H. "Without them, we could not have done the things we did. We could not have dealt with death, could not have interjected tragedy into a situation comedy." 
We are all too young to remember the final 
episode ofThe Fugitive. That show captivated 
the country, and was the highest rated regular 
program in history until Bing Crosby's 
daughter killedJ.R. onDallas. 

But we can all remember the long-awaited 
episode of that series, and the build-up was 
nothing to rival the outpouring of emotion 
and anticipation that accompanied Monday's show. 
In 11 years,M-A-S-H touched us all. It made us laugh, but rarely without reminding us of the horror ofwar. 
"It was more about Vietnam than people think," says Gene Reynolds who, like Aida, wrote, directed and produced at various times. Indeed, when the show made its debut, Americans were dying in Vietnam, in a war more senseless even than that to which Haw­keye and Radar and B.}. were sent. 
As America in the 1970s changed, so did the show. As Vietnam peace talks progressed, M­A-S-H featured programs on false truce an­nouncements. When Watergate rocked America, M-A-S-H featured ·a government cover-up. As we grew up, so did the shows characters. Radar O'Reilly became a man. Mar­garet Houlihan became a woman. Time al­tered personalities and relationships. Men died, other men replaced them, and AmeJ:ica watched it all. 

ButM-A·S-H was not always as popular as it was Monday night. In its first season, the show once finished 56 out of 60 programs in the Nielsen ratings. 
When peace finally came to the 4077th, it came while its characters were in the operat· ing room, battling to preserve life -despite the imminence of new lives for themselves. 
And it is fitting that the men and women of M-A-S-H should be working as the war ended. For the series always t_aught us one thing ­verbalized by Col. Henry Blake in an episode entitled "Sometimes You Hear the Bullet." 
"Rule number one in war is that young men die," Blake -ironically the only cast member to die in the war -told Hawkeye. "Rule num­ber two is that doctors can't change rule num­ber one." 
For 11 years, through laughter, pathos, and stirring drama, M-A-S-H never let us forget that. 
Goodbye, farewell, amen. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
handle decisions and responsibility, and so propagandistic and "holier-than-thou." to end abortion because it is morally on. If this were the way the world is (and I Second, they may not recognize the op­wrong). Still, abortions will occur and we
Validity counts 
would surely welcome it), a general moral tion of adoption. Babies are always wanted should try to make them less appealing by assessment of abortion might be possible for adoption. Catholicss could encourage making baby care easier and assuring mot­DearEditor: (and I would welcome that); but until we foster families as well as legislation to make hers of their ability to raise, love, and be 
As everyone knew would happen, the have created such a sufficiently common adoptions for qualified couples easier. loved by their children. "challenge to be pro-choice" printed a few context for abortion decisions (a task to Third, they don't have a good day care ReneeRady weeks ago in these pages has been refused which many "pro-life" supporters have lent center nearby. Women worried about their by the totality of Notre Dame letter-writers. invaluable aid), I do not think that laws careers may, especially in a bad economy, The fact that this opposition has been so should purport to embody as-yet nonexist­put their jobs before their unborn children. complete, unanimous, and final, the fact that ent moral agreement. Catholics, then, should lobby strongly for we all knew that the pro-choice writer didn't In addition, I am not sure that abortion is greater government funding of way care 
Editor's 
have a chance offinding support among the of a sufficiently social character to warrent centers. Moreover, women's clubs and Notre Dame community, leads me to legislation. Ofcourse, the situation does ex­senior citizen's groups could volunteer to 
Note 
suspect that the pro-choice perspective has tend beyond the person of the pregnant take care ofworking mothers' children. been misunderstood here. This suspicion is woman, to include the future life of the 
Fourth, they feel guilty already. A womandeepened when I see the majority ofletter­potential baby (and-or the life of the fetus, may feel depressed because she has had sexwriters refer to the "pro-abortion" position, for those who view he-she-it as a person), 

Editor's Note: Letters should be 
and become pregnant, perhaps before mar­seeing it as the simple rejection oftheir own other family and community members, and brief and deal with specific issues. 

riage. She thinks, "I have sinned so much,self-proclaied "pro-life" stand. governmental agencies providing assis­

They must be typed and bear the what's one more sin?" Catholics should not
I am fairly certain that in most cases "pro­tance. But the actual importance ofall these 
address, telephone number and 
judge others, but show compassion, forgive­choice" does not imply "anti-life." Things factors is ambiguous, or at least so situation­signature of the author. Initials and 

ness, and understanding for those who carryjust aren't that simple. The pro-choice posi­and-person-specific that no general laws pseudonyms are not acceptable. 

a child whom they may not have planned. Ifation, as I see it, is not ultimately addressed to seem appropriate. I would generally favor Reproductions, carbon copies, or woman feels good about herself, she may

the question of the morality of abortion it­that the ultimate decision rest in the preg­letters addressed to persons other 
also feel that she can be a great mother.

self, but to the question of the morality of a nant woman; but in any case, it seems to me than the editor are not acceptable.
Overall, then, we should adopt a morelegal-governmental stance on abortion. Of that the true pro-life stance is to be con­All letters are subject to editing.

pragmatic and less theological approach tocourse, the latter question is intimately as­cerned with the specific situations and per­decreasing the incidence of abortion. This,sociated with the former, since the moral sons involved (which, again, many "pro-life" of course, is not the ideal (which would becharacter or legislation involves the moral supporters have done). character of the activity legislated. In order Looked at in this way, it seems to me, "the for legislation to be moral, it seems to me, challenge to be pro-choice" is really an in­the activity legislated must I ) receive a vitation for Notre Dame (and the country) similar moral assessment from most citizens, to realize that there are different and still and 2) be ofa sufficiently social character to valid moral perspectives and ways of life, warrant legal-governmental regulation. At and that the world is not as idyllic as one present, the whole complicated situation might hope. Again, many people here have surrounding abortion has not received a realized this; more, however, haven't. similar moral assessment by most U.S. Steve Holmes citizens, as exhibited by the fact that many people choose to have abortions while others choose not to. The distinction be­tween the two groups of people is not that 

Pragmatic look 
the former like to kill babies and the latter do not, that the former devalue life and the lat­DearEditor: ter value it, but that different people do dif­I would like to share my thoughts regard­ferent things in different situations. It may ing abortion. like many Catholics, I believe very well be that, if the situations surround­that life begins at conception and that abor­ing all abortions were similar, people could tion is murder. However, I can see why so agree on a moral assessment ofabortion; but many people still choose to abort their in fact those situations vary greatly. Most of children. the "pro-life" writers these past few weeks First, they may not understand that their have presented such a similar context for all baby has a soul and is a person. Perhaps they abortions, one in which everyone agrees have not reflected on the implications of that life begins at conception, in whiCh all their choice; they may act impulsively. For unwed mothers, abandoned children, and this reason, Catholics should help to educate large poor families are cared for, in which all people on the meaning of"abortion," but relevant information is utilized by everyone, in a clear, objective way. Pictures of dead in which everyone is sufficiently mature to fetuses that appeal to emotion come off as 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief.........•....................Michael Monk BusinessManager.............................Tony Mello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes i Controller .............................................Eric Sc~ulz
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
ExecutiveNewsEditor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris O!wen
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutiveEditor............Margaret Fosmoe ,Production Manager..................Maura Mutphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Mibtto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is ava;lable to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ............................ joe Musumeci

and the free expression ofvarying opinions on 91mpus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor.............................. Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303 


P"'-~-------------~---­

Claudette in what? 
Freelance: Forever, Marietta Whittlesey, Avon, New York, 1982,347 pages, $7.95. 
Freelance Away! 
Y
ou're lost in a strange land. You have no money, no credit cards. 
What will you do .. .what willyou do?! 
You're a college graduate. 

Many ofthe seniors who are about to graduate in May have already lined up jobswith prestigiousfirms across the country; many others have been accepted for graduate work at countless institutions. 
A large number have not. 

For those who are contemplatng a life in a bread line, for those who need some way to make extra money while in grad school, or even for those who just want a novel way to keep fed during summer break, Marietta Whittlesey's book,Freelance Forever, may replace the family Bible. (Trivia Note: what book did I say the same thing about last week? Ah, well.) 
Joe musumeci 

Whittlesey's book is a regular cornucopia ofinformation on how to get and keep your own business on track. Whittlesey herself is a freelance writer and has incorporated the testimony and advice of many, many otherfreelancers in various lines ofwork to compile her guide. The book as a whole is designed to help the serious freelancer keep track offinances and lifestyles while trying to maintain a steady flow ofcreativity and cash. 
Nonetheless, even ifyo .u aren't planning to go out and start your own corporation (one ot the books better points-even ifyou are the entire product, incorporate anyway) the book wll probably be a great help to anybody startingout in the real world. Included and of major interest are sections on buying, renting or just plain old find­ing housing, establishing a credit rating, setting up work space, arranging taxes, and a particularly fascinating little dialogue on "creative debt management." 
If, in fact, you are planning to go out and start your own business or plan to make a career ofyour own in the arts, this book is an indis­pensable encyclopedia. It is set up and arranged as a reference book -interesting to read all the way through but more valuable to keep around just as a handy helper when specific situations arise. Whit­tlesey provides a wealth ofstudied advice in areas such as how to remain creative, how to cope with lean times, how to live economi­cally and still enjoy it, and how to keep the sort ofrecords,effidiently, that keep freelancers out of jail and the poorhouse at the same time. 
Besides being a freelancer with a good feel for business (something the book would have us believe is rather uncommon),· Whittlesey has what seems a very rare handle on the problems and trials that face someone trying to market themselves as a commodity and remain an artist. This impressed me even more than her thoroughness in compiling the book, for I have been maing an on­and-off living for some time now as a free-lance graphic artist, and it wasn't the bed of roses I had thought it might be. Reading through Freelance Foret•er, I realized many of the initial mistakes I had made in setting up my business and image as a designer; oh, how I wish I had read this book before last summer. I would have known, for in­stance, that I need not have any ofmy income from specific contrac­tors withheld, that even the newspaper which provided the closest thing I had to regular employment should not have withheld any tax. I also could have benefitted from what is perhaps Whittlesey's most relevant topic for the graduating or self-employed college student: "Getting Work." This section (as are many ofthe others) is loaded with relevant and tantalizing lists of people and firms who are likely to be interested in whatever it is one wishes to do for a living. 
The back cover of the book is topped by a statement in bold red letters: "As a freelancer, you are your own employer, employee and product." This is a much more popular lifestyle than it used to be, and I can vouch for the fact that it holds many very rewarding benefits. Frec:ance Forever is an invaluable investment for anyone who is consiedring the route of the freelancer. 
C
ombine a confused seventeen year-old girl, an ef­
feminate cousin, a rakish uncle, and an absent 

minded professor and you will have a listing ofthe main 
characters in Claudine in Paris by Colette. 
You will also have a headache. 
Now, don't get me wrong, it's not <;1 bad book. It just isn't really a good book. It has been translated from French and it seems to have lost something in the trans­lation. The story perhaps? 
Written in diary style, the book consists ofshort, choppy sentences. Because ofthis, it sometimes tends to be incoherent, as does the title character. 
As far as I can tell, the story seems to center around a precocious youngwoman who has been forced to leave the French boarding school in which she grew up and move to Paris. 
Because the move to Paris meant leaving behind her lesbian school friends, Claudine decides to rebel by becoming ill. In fact, it is just after her recovery that we meet her. Claudine has had her hair cut to ease the fever, and is lying abed, listening to her maid propose lovers for her.· 
She tells us about her school life in Montigny. Her friend, Luce, with whom she has had an affair is agonized at her leaving. It is perhaps, her unease and disgust with the theatrics of Luce's farewell that make Claudine decide, finally, to accept Paris. 
While in Paris she meets her cousin Marcel. Colette describes him as a pretty boy, with fair hair, a light com­plexion, and blue eyes. He also ha_s a boyfriend. Marcel introduces Claudine to her Uncle Renaud, Marcel's father. 
About the same time that Claudine meets Renaud, she finds her school friend, Luce, in Paris. Luce tells her that she has run away from home and is living with her mother's brother-in-law. In return for her "lost honor," Luce is provided with the luxuries ofwealthy life. 
Thisdiscovery sends Claudine into tumult. From this point the story becomes the tale ofC! ·:~dine's transition to adulthood. She accepts the notion that her Luce has had relations with a man, and begins to consider it for herself. 
During this period of transition, Claudine goes out and gets drunk with her uncle, Renaud. Renaud ex­presses his love for her, and she begins to experience mutual feelings. As she struggles with herself, she must also struggle with her t uncle. Renaud feels that she is still a child, and he must keep away from her. Claudine realizes that to keep Renaud's love she must sacrifice her childhood and her past relationships by taking the step to maturity. The story ends with her marriage to Renaud. 
As you may have noticed, the plotline is rather simple. The hardest part of reading the book is wading through the sexual confusion. Not everythingabout the book is bad though. Wonderful descriptive phrases are used that give the lines a sense ofpoetry. It is because of this that I feel the story lost something through transla­tion. For lines to flow like that in English, the original French must have hung together like music. 
It also seems as if Colette just mugh~ be laughing at her book through the character ofClaudine's maid, Melie. Melie's artless speech and malapropisms provide the book with a touch ofhumor. Her concern with sex is so overdone that all you can do is laugh. 
Depending on your taste, this book could make good light reading. I, however, have a hard time recommend­ing it to anyone. Ifany one out there is a French major, you might try it in its native language. 
Claudine In Parts, Colette, Ballantine Books, New York, 1976, 183 pages, $2.50. 



----------------------------------·--------------------------~------------------------------~ 
~~(),-tS~/=J=~==i~e~S=====================i==========T=hu=rs=d=~='~~=ar=ch=3='=19=8=3==p=a=gc=_==ll
By The Obserz•er and The Associated Press 
Bookstore Basketball registration will take place Sunday, March 6, from 3 to 5 p.m. in the Great Hall ofO'Shaughnessy. The entry fee is $4 per team. Details will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Obseroer 
The interhall wrestling tournament will start during the first week after break. WatchThe Obseroer for an announcement ofthe exact date, or call 2 39-6100. --The Obseroer 
The interhall office has announced a new set of deadlines for its spring sports. Thursday, Mar. I 0 is the deadline for signups for the following sports: interhall men's softball, interhall women's softball, interhall baseball, interhall women's soccer, and an open soccer tournament.(limited entry). Also, the interhall wres­tling tournament will start the first week after spring break. Watch The Observer for an announcement of the date. -The Observer 
TheJ.V. lacrosse team will hold an organizational meeting for anyone interested in playing for the spring team today at 4:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. If you cannot attend, call Austin Henry at 1025 or Rich O'Leary at 239-5108.--The Obseroer 
Broomball registration deadline has been extended to 5:00p.m. today instead of 1:00 p.m. The one-day tour­ney will take place on Saturday. Teams of six players may pre­register at anytime. --The Observer 
Mud Volleyball registrationwill take place on 
Monday, March 7, and Tuesday, March 8. The registration will take place in the ballroom on the second floor ofLaFortune from 11:00 to 
I :00 and 4:00 to 6:00 on each day. Team rosters should be com­prised of6-8 people. Acaptain must be identified with a phone num­ber, and the 10 numbers of all players must be included. Additional rules will be given at registration. -The Obseroer 
See BRIEFS, page 12 

• • • Pirates 
continuedfrom page 16 
tion committee meets next weekend to determine which teams get to participate in this year'!> ex­travaganza 
"All we can do now is win our last' three games and keep our fmgers crossed," says Phelps. "Whatever the tournament committee decides, we'll accept. 
"I don't think we're out ofconten­tion at all, especially when you lose a game at the buzzer. But we would have liked to have won our last eight and finished at 20-8. Even so, if we win our last three games and end up 
I9-9 . . . that's great considering 
where we were a year ago." 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the business day prior to msertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
LOST: Gold cotn necklace Sunday Feb. PLEASE HELP need nde to WASH DC ST. LOUIS ST. LOUIS Need rtde to St. ONE or TWO RIDES needed to the GAR­If REA WOMEN DON'T PUMP GAS, what 20 between North Dtntng Hall. P W . and for break. Wtll share usual Maura X2244 Louts for Spnng Break Will pay usual DEN STATE for Spring Break. Yes, we do do you call a certatn PE restdent who sold 
NOTICES 

the Library. If found please call x2966. Please call Moat 7126 want to go to NEW JERSEY for break. Will gas for over a year at ART'S GAS AND DESPERATE! Need Rtde To Northern pay the uusual. Please (PLEASE) call GROCERY? ·Fred and DCG, JR LOST in C-D line of North: 1 blue N.D. N.J. OR NYC. Can LEAVE By 12 Noon Need Rtde to Chtcago Fnday 3/4/83 call Sarah at 1361 or Mary at 1272. Please!!!!! backpack. contains: 1 red "untfted" ON Friday THE 12TH. Will SHARE The Pete x3118 ATLANTAal/anta ATLANTA need ride to TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
notebook. Saul Bellow's THE VICTIM. USUAL CALL JERRY AT 3893 CONNECTICUT bound?! We need Atlanta lor break Can leave Fnday, noon. 
and TIME mag. If you ptcked tl up by HELP! Need rtde to north JERSEY for (desperately) ONE or TWO ndes to CON· Call Dave at 6931. TYPING 
mtstake at Wed. lunch. PLEASE call SYRACUSE BOUND? I need a nde to break. Call TOM at x 1750. NECTICUT for Spnng Break Please call Jackte Boggs 
8830 a~d/or from' Syr. NY for Spnng Break Will Mary at 1272 orSarah at 1361 Will pay As love grows. 
684·8793 

share usual Call Bill x1374 RIDE NEEDED TO ROCH NY FOR the usual Hearts are torn 1n the process. LOST--woman's gold Ttmex watch; tn or BREAK WANDA 7770 Take the heart that watts for you, near O'Shag on 3/1 I am very unhappy Need ride to OMAHA tor break. Can T.S HAVE YOU ABUSED YOURSELF Give tt the chance. 
TYPING IN MY HOME (RESUMES, LET· leave Wed. Call Dan x6740. Needed to I LATELY?
wtthout tt--return 11 to me and name your Rtders Daytona Ft. To grow with you TEAS. REPORTS. TERM 
reward!! Ltz x6825 Lauderdale for break Leave 3/10 Call To love you. PAPERS,ETC.) NEAT. ACCURA-TE Need nde to CANTON Ohto for break
Need a RIDE TO PITISBURGH for Woody 277-0992 To need you WORK. REASONABLE RATES 233­
Lost: RING OF KEYS--Volkswagen car break. Can leave on Fnday at noon. Please call Ctndy at x2948. Take my hand and 7009 
key. approx. 9 others please return to Please call Terri x6797. Need riders to Palm Beach. FL. Leavtng GUide me to the tnstde ol your heart. 
Metallurgtcal Eng. Offtce or call 6328 and Thurs. March 10. Call Sue 5193 SMC Rademaker Feltcta is getttng full! Clue x3: MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Studennt 
BUG-HIA? loans -$20-$200 One percent tnterest. 
leave message for Dave. Thank you HELP! Need a nde to Madtson. WI thts Today, 

weekend. Call Martha 8024 Needed: Rtde for two to Flonda for break We begtn agatn Due tn one month. One day wait Open M 
Please call 277-1709. LOOKING FOR FUN IN THE SUN OR Anew step -F. 11·30-12:30 LaFortune Basement 
Need a nde to DALLAS for break. Call JUST HEADING SOUTH? NEED A new begtnntng NOTICE: LAST DAY FOR MAY '83 Tom at 277-8061 Rtders needed to NYC/CONN area. Call RIDERS TO MYRTLE BEACH OR AIKEN 
GRADS TO APPLY IS MARCH 9 !!! FOR RENT Kathy 284-5322 SOUTH CAROLINA/ AUGUSTA GEOR­
Need a ride to O'Hare Atrport Friday GIA AREA CALL ED AT 233-63t1 WILL Dearest BRENDAN, GOING TO CONNECTICUT??? Seats March 11. Can leave 10:00 am. but must Ride for two needed to O'HARE on Thurs LEAVE FRIDAY NIGHT My personals you've read. 
are still avatlable for Conn Club's spnng House:4 bedroom. near ND. $250 per So here's clue 2· 
be at O'Hare by 3:00 pm Chtcago ttme. Mar 10 leavtng about 7pm. Call Kann at 
break bus! Must call Ttm at 2257 by 8pm 

mo. Fall or summer No utilittes. Phone Call Trish 284-4421 2910 PITISBURGH CLUB Seats sttll My ha1r IS brown, Thurs . March 3 to Stgn up Cost tS $90. 
(319) 322-8735. Palty. avatlable for Spnng Break Bus Round tnp And my eyes are blue. 
Desperately need a nde to MASS for $45.00 and One ways $29.00. Call Bnan Neither sophomore, junior, orsen1or am I, APTS NEAR NO FOR RENT UTILS PO break can leave Thurs share usual x1743 To hnd out more. YOU MUST REPLY! LESS GAS PH 2720261 Dave -1766 Love.
drtve a WILSON DRIVEAWAY carlo your RIDE NEEDED TO ANYWHERE IN desttnatton for break. For tnfo· 233-6495 UPSTATE NEW YORK--BUFFALO. PITISBURGH CLUB... Seats sttll ? 
SYRACUSE ALBANY---WILL SHARE 
USUAL--CALL CHRIS ANYTIME at 3510 
4 bdrm furntshed house, near campus Rtders needed to St. Pete-Tampa area or avatlable for Spnng Bus Call Bnan 
On Notre Dame Ave. Good condttton 9 en rt .. Share dnvtng and gas. Leavtng x1743 mo. lease $335 per mo. Call 684-0933 Fnday 3/11 afternoon Call Mark 287-THEO MAJORS: Today-Thursday­
OR8573 (local call)• 5208 Dear Ltsa J . Andrea. Anne. Carol, Chns, come to the Social Hour with Prof.
\ LOST/FOUND \ 

PHONE WORKLOCAL BRANCH OF NA­Ei. Laur. Lts. Mar. Patty. Teresa. et al: John Howard Yoder as guest. 321 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT TIONAL NOW HIRING FOR DAY OR ATLANTA atlanta ATLANTA THANK YOU all for your lovtng support O'Shaugnessy... 5:00 P.M. 
SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO 277· EVENING HOURS EXCELLENT OP­Need nde to Atlanta for break Can leave and gutdance Wtn OR lose --you always 
LOST PAIR OF SILVER FRAMED PORTANITY FOR STUDENTS HOURLY 
3604 Fnday noon Maybe someone gotng thru make my races worthwhile!! P S Ka11e THE NEW NO HOCKEY FIGHT SONG GLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE SALARY BONUS CALL MR ANGELO 
FLORIDA can help Call Dave at x6931 you re awesome! SHAME SHAME MOLD NOTRE DAME THE CASE WAS FALLING APART AND 289-4040.
FURNISHED TWO ROOMS. PRIVATE THE ALMIGHTY DOLLAR CONTROLS IS HELD TOGETHER BY A PIECE OF MALE ALL Coast. after ATTENTION REAL That GAMES THE
ENTRANCE PREF ·Need nde from Flonda. W ALL MALES. YOUR SEND HOCKEY 
SILVER DUCT TAPE IF FOUND UTILITIES PAID 277-3604 IMPORTANT I NEED A RIDE TO 3/19 Ptck-up anywhere. Wtll pay! Shetla red-hatred FOX. KATHY RUDD. tS PROGRAM OFF TO DIE ITS PLEASE CALL PHIL AT 8295 EITHER INDY OR ANDERSON THIS celebrattng her 21st btrthday today!!! So
284-4186 SACRELIGOUS TO ASK WHY WHAT DESPERAEL Y NEEDED1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! FOR RENT NOW -2 or 3 Bedroom. Full WEEKEND. CALL x1692 AND ASK FOR make sure you stop by 213 PW and gtve THOUGH THE ODDS BE GREAT OR DAVE ANYTIME 
Bath. Yard. Partly furmshed $185 $70 Need RIDE to any potnl between AKRON her a btrthday ktss'!! Have fun Kath· ! The SMALL THE HOCKEY PROGRAM IS FOUND. NOTRE DAME Jacket at Stepan 
Uttlittes Depostt $200. Off Portage 289-and CINCY thts weekend X11 05 PANTHER and TIGRESS OOOMED AFTER ALL WHILE HER Courts on Feb 24/25 ldenttfy color and NEW JERSEY! RIDE NEEDED TO
1687 LOYAL SONS GO MARCHING INTO SIZe and 11 s yours. Call Mtke at 277·2653. NORTH/CENl RAL NJ FOR SPRING NEED RIDERS TO HARRISBURG PA. SMC STUDENTS II OBSCURITY . 
FURN 2 BAM poss. 3 AVAIL IMMED AREA OR ANYWHERE ON TPIKE CALL Throw Your Hat In The Rtng! 
BREAK. PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906. 
Large Neat & Near NO. Call233-7631 JEFF at 232-4731 Apply For OF COURSE I'LL MARRY YOU. MK. I $REWARD$ NEED RIDE TON VAID.C AREA FOR 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT COMMIS­JUST CANT WAIT TO SPEND OUR 4 Room.single apt. totally remodled. RIDERS WANTED TO ITHACA. N Y OR SitJNERS!' SERBIAN-CHINESE HONEYMOON IN
-for the return or whereabouts of HP-11 C BREAK CAN LEAVE MARCH 10th calculator taken from a blue oackpack at major uttlittes 1.50.00 287-CALL JIM AT 1763 THEREABOUTS T March2-7 THE.EXOTIC VIRGIN ISLANDS WHERE 
payed mo S PRINGBREAK SMC Dtntng Hall Thur ntght. No
2-24 8868 after 6:00 CALL 282-1517. Ptck up appltcattons tn Student Acttvtltes WE'LL BE NO MORE. I'LL BE TRUE TO questtons asked Has Personal Value -I need a nde to Boslton I mean I need a 
Offtce YOU ALWAYS YOU'VE BECOME A Please callt<tm -4176 nde to Boston Chns 177 4 DUEBYMAR 7!
Anyone g01ng to MARYLAND­PAF\T OF ME. LOVE. KARLENE P S. SAL T.IWASH area-I really need a nde LETS DO I AGAIN SOON I WAS REAL­FOUND. Gtrfs watch outstde North PURDUE: I live there! And unfortunately, HOME! Anyttme before or dunng break. LY FUN!!! 
WANTED 

Dtntng Hall on the 16th Call 2905. I'm gotng home for Spnng · Break' If Call Gtna x6961 GOING CONNECTICUT??? Seats
THANKS! TO anyone happens to be planntng on pas­are sttll avatlable for Conn. Club·s spnng GOOD LUCK TO OUR HOCKEY TEAM. LOST· Ladtes gold watch at the bars I sure would like to see Canton, Ohio stng lthrough there on the way to some· break bus! MUST call Tim at 2257 by 8pm BEAT BOWLING GREEN. MOST OF US 
RIDE NEEDED TO ST. LOUIS AREA for Saturday ntght Please call Ltz x8084 over break' Can I please a nde with you? place better (or even actually gotng there Thurs.. March 3 to stgn up. Cost ts $90
break Call Mary at 287-0372 WILL NOT BE ABLE TO BE THERE IN Thanks Call Ctndy at 2948. to stay), call Tom x1396 I need a nde' 
PERSON BUT OUR LOVE AND BEST Thanks. 
Desperately need ride to Washington Need ride to New Jersey. Can bring WISHES GO WITH YOU. SIGNED, 
LOST· Black Nylon ·Loop Jacket at the Surfs up tn So. California. Dnvtng to DC area. Can leave early as rider back to N.D. Call Kathy 2947.
as YOUR MANY TRUE FANS 
Blue Ltne Club after Saturday's hockey Californta for spnng break? I could use a RYDPLEEZ? MPLS SPRBRK DAVE Thursday 3/10. Wtll be delighted to share 
game Keep the coat . but please return lift. Give Mtke a call at x1688. Thanks. 3039thanx usual Please call Maureen at 7978. SENIORS!!!!!!!!! 
nde needed for spnng break to anywhere my eyeglasses. Please turn tn to lost and Come and dance an evemng away'" the 
near New Hampsh1re Boston's fme. Call found at Adm. Bldg RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY NEW YORK HELP Rtde needed to I.U. weekend of 3/4 ACC Monogram rm There wtll be hot and anyttme Janet x6723 
FOR SPRING BREAK---CAN LEAVE Ctndy 284-4064 
cold snacks, open bar from 7:30 to 9:00, HELP!!! I've lost a gold cross and chatn-­ANYTIME WILL SHARE USUAL CALL and"danctng ttll I :00 You can purchase Congratulations to our buddies the future 
FOR SALE 

Sat nrte 2/26. between Farley and 02 CHRIS AT 3510 OR 8573 ANYTIME---HELP! Need 1 nde to N FLORIDA Can your ttckets at $5.00 per person from your tools of Zahm-Dan. Heft, Holtt, Gauser, parktng lot. PLEASE call me, Kate. at leave almost anyttme. Rose 7957 or 7956 hall rep. or the student acttvtltes offtce tn Malt Remember you can't use the x3838 1f you have any tnfo--tt means a !'NORTH CAROLINA!' Need RIDE for FOR SAIL: Offtctal Notre Dame Satling LaFortune Be there on Fnday March 25. 
screwdnvers 1111 next year! BJ, Lib1do, great deal to me Spnng Break! Can & will leave any S day! PITISBURGH! PITISBURGH! I NEED A Club T-shtrts. Blow your fnend(s) away! 1983!!!!!!! 
Uncle Steve. LaGwardta, Harry 
Call Jtm at 8921. RIDE TO PITISBURGH THIS We've been dotng a BOOMtng bUisness WERE YOU AT FLANNER'S BASE­WEEKEND' HELP ME! Can leave Fnday so order fast before they're all gone! Call 
JUNIORS--Interested in one-semester BEACON BOWLERS DINNER MENT PARTY SATURDAY NITE? DID VOLUPTUOUS BLONDE need• a nde and return Monday Call Martha, 283· Lou at 6713. 
study in MEXICO? See Marcta LeMay, TONIGHT...don't be CHICKEN! Shalom YOU PICK UP MY JEAN JACKET T BY home to the Mtnn·St Paul area lor spnng 1514 Center for Soctal Concerns, 239-7861. ACCIDENT? LEVIS JACKET. PRETY break. If you're gotng my way, call Sue at KAPLAN MCAT books for sale call 7252 
HEY McCAHTAH: Does "caffe lalte" NEW. COULD YOU Pl.EAS[ RFEURN 2170. VANDERBILT! VANDERBILT! I NEED A 
PATRICK TOOLE HAPPY ANNIVER· 
cause hardemng of the artenes? N/A IT? CALL SUE AT 3560 OR 6810 FAR· RIDE TO VANDERBILT OR NASHVILLE SARY! I love you! L YNDY LEY315 WANTED: need one RIDER to come back AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. Can leave 
To BARBER THE ELEPHANT Just from HOUSTON. TEXAS to NO wtll be 121h or 13th. Call Martha. 283·1514 HEY JENNY. 
TICKETS 
thought I'd let you know that my wtsh 
Lost: A gold teligtous medal wrth Mary on returntng on etther the 18th or the 19th of How come you're never home? I've (from the Japanese com) came true. 
the front and Lynn Mane 5/9171 on the March. Will split the usual costs. Call LOVELY LASS needs nde to ln­been trytng to ftnd you for two weeks, so I Thanks for rt and the great ttme Saturdayback. It was lost on t~e way to the Credtl Rosemary at 6858 or Kelly at 6715. dtanapolis for spnng break. I can leave can g1ve you my "surpnse·· I prom1sed ntght. "MARGIE WHIPPERPOOL" P.S. 
Umon on Friday It ts of great senttmental Wed, March 9. If you're gotng my way. I NEED 14 TICS FOR DAYTON GAME· you. Call me at The Observer somettme 
When·s my first raquetball lesson? value! lffound, please call x1271!! Need RIDE to Phladelphta or Wtlmtngton. call Lisa at 3882. Thanks! CALL 1751 soon so Ican fmd out when you're around. De. area for spring break. Please call Malt You know who I am, I think. 
HATCHETWOMAN 

Someone claimed my bhock &kl jacket 7374 RIDERS NEEDED-One-way lrom Boston Need DAY ON TIX $$ Jtm 233-2386 Knock Knock. 
from ACC Security about two -ks to ND on 3/20. Gtb-6827 Who's There? 
ago. IT'S NOT YOURS. PluMturn In to Need nde to MINNESOTA for spnng NEED TWO DAYTON TIX $$$ call Steve JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS BANANA! 
Lost & Found or contiiC't mo x1025. break. Can leave anyttme. Call Margte at Need Rtde to eastern PA tor Sprtng 8919 JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
SMC4173. Break. Allentown/Harnsbg area. Will 
JUNIORS "FALL" INTO THE LOST:one F---THE' DRAFT button If share usual. Call Dean, 8647 Thanks. BAHAMAS Ill Dooners, Unga. Mahgret. Poppy, '"'mal found. please c~•: 8704 3nyttme. nde needed to VIRGINIA for spnng break­Happy Houra, Salllng, Scuba Diving, House. Stace. Ktmberly, and NNan-nan REWARD -can leave early. call Shelly x8148 D.C for Easter Need nde to DC. for Eas· Reggae Dancing , Beaches, Tana -thanks for making my birthday an· 
ter Break Would like to leave on 3-30. PERSONALS Remember Sign-ups In LaFortune awesome one. Y'all are the best and I love 
HELP' I lost a gotd spangle bracelet on NEED A RIDE FOR 1.2. OR 3 PEOPLE Please call Chuck at 1801. Thank You Lobby • PLEASE SEE OBSERVER you lots. Your party and study associate, 3/1/83, whereabouts unknown. It has a TO DC AREA FOR BREAK. CALL 6749 ADIllI Cheryl P. (B.J.) -who's now legal in AZ! small dtamond and ts of GRE'AT sen­Need nde to Phtlly. NYC. Ballo., or DC Need Rtde To Connecticut For Sprtng 
timental value! If found. please contact Need two ndes to Ptltsburgh for break Wednesday before break (March 9). Call Break. Wtll Share Usual. Please Call Dan Gee. you're still my 0-C people: YOUR hockey team tontght Patrteta at 2914 Call Paul6251 Wtll8659 atx6824 favonte.. dancer...and .. my favonte . vsdillon at 10:15. Be there 

The Observer Thursday, March 3, 1983 --page 12 
Atlantic Coast Conference 
Cavaliers, Tar Heels win easily 

the course.  -The Observer  
14 in.  
Cheese Pizza (Willi Ole ldditioulliCfltliHt)  z  The Ultimate Frisbee Club wm be practicing  
& Liter of RC Cola  0 D. ~  behind Jake Kline tleld, weather permitting. The practices will run from 3:30 to S:30 Monday through Friday. New members are welcome. -The Observer  
$567  
Expires 3/10/83  
No other discount with  

this offer. Ski team members who,have not picked up their C UPON jackets, sweatshirts or ski bags should contact Phil Panny at 277­3799 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
J 

An Tostal innertubewaterpolosignupswm be on Sunday, March 6, in the Ballroom in LaFortune from 4-S p.m. Registration will be limited. There is a S5 fee to enter the tourna­ment. Each team must have a minimum of seven players, including two girls, per team. Teams may not have more than two water polo players and one varsity athlete, or two varsity athletes. -The Ob­server 
.~Norbertlne ~ Fathers & Brothers: 
\\'coffer the opportunity for Teaching and Pastoral Ministry with life in community. \\'c arc men seeking God through t shared life t shared prayer t shared ministry 
This Is our eballenge: 
For mort· Information write to: Rev. Gene G-ries, O.Praem. Vocation Director St. Norbert Abbey De Pere, WlsconMln Mlli'i 
'\umc -----------,\ddrcs.o., ---------Cltv State Zip ____ 
Aj(c Completed lllgh School Collcj(c -----­

ATL\.NTA(AP)-'VIichaeljordan scored 2-l point~. 1'i in the sn:ond half. as eighth-ranked North Carolina downed Georgta Tech H'\­-~ in an Atlantic Coast Conterenn: basketball game last night. 
Jordan had two baskets. one a slam Junk. Juring an 11-0 Carolina '-purt that stret<.:hed a 12-~6 ad­,·amagc to '\~-~6 with ll:IH kit m the ;,tame. 
Tech never threatened thereafter as the Tar Heels eventual!\· rolled up a 2~-point lead. their higgest of the game. whkh thev held on tive occa­
~lons. 
The victorv lifted North Carolina to .H-6 for the ~eason and I 1-2 in the .-\CC. Tech tdl to 12-1-1 and +I 0. 
Sam Perkins added 16 points for 
North Carolina. 
GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP) ­Ralph Sampson scored 2!-1 points as No. 2-ranked Virginia cruised to a 107-74 Atlantic Coast Conference basketball victory over Wake Forest yesterday. 

14 in. 
Cheese Pizza 
n 
c: 0 $4.95 
, 
Extra Ingredients 
$.71
z: 
Expires 3/10/83 No other discount with this offer. 
COUPO 
'fPUll~l~ ifli"lnl'C 
Jlizzcrin 
18061 So. Bend Ave. 
272-8030 
FREE DELIVERY to NDISMC 10 PERCENT OFF ANYTIME WITH NO 
COUPON, STUDENT I.D. REQUIRED. 
• SANDWICHES •PIEROGI• •CZARNINA •BLINTZES • 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 4:00-1:30 A.M. 

..r 
Present 
~H£ 

this ad for 
BUfJO~ 
free admission 
Ft. Lauderdale's no. 1 Rock Club Presents 

NOTRE DAME DAY 
Thursday, March 17, 1983,3 p.m. 
Free keg* Contests* On the beach, Las Olas & AlA Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
Movin'out? 
RENTA 
RYDERTRUCK 
If you·re 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-lt-here.leave-i.t-rherej tnp to another City 
FOR 

Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end of the semester W1th a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or two or her 
INFORMATION 
people .and their th1ngs. so you can share the costs Compare that to a plane ticket Or even a bus 
CALL 277-3550 
Rent from the best-maintained. most dependable fleet 1n · 
R 

the world Ryder The best truck money can rent ........

..~tllfL11

l'o~ Any oneway rental card rate 
..... \1 
I 

with this coupon and your
L 

10°/o 
Student/F acurty I D. 
Through June 30, 'f983 
Offer Good at 2715 N. Bendix Drive. S.B. 
OFF 

RYDERTRUCKRENTAL 
2715N.BENDJX DR South Bend 
The victory boosted the Cavaliers' ACC mark to I 1-2 and 2+.3 overall. 
Wake forest raced out to a 20-1 ~ le:1d in the tlrst seven mmutes. but Virgmia rallied and tied it on a Rickv Stokes jumper with 1 I :~l) remaining Ill the openmg half. 
The ~core was tied twice more bdore the Cavaliers slowly pulled 
continuedfrom paxe 11 

The ND-SMC Bicycling Club will hold a 
meeting tonight in the LaFortune ballroom at ~,oo p.m. -The Ob­server 
The WOmen'S golfteam will be meeting on Mon­dav, March...,, at 6:30 in the women's varsity office at the ACC to view 
videotapes and discuss the spring tournament and spring practices. Also, the roster is up in the golfshack so that players can now get on 
awav and eventuallv opened a -+6· ~2 edge on a Sampson dunk with .~:2H left. 
l_'sing 62-percent shootmg, Vir­gmia da1med a -;~-~H halftime lead. \Vake l'ore~t went ~cordess for four mmute" to -~tart the second half as the <:avahers expanded their margin to 69--+ I with l ):49 remaining. 
• • . Briefs 
~----------------------·-------------------------------------------­

--~~~-----·~-------------~-----------~-----~------~------­
The Observer Thursday, March 3, 1983-page 13 
• • . Dolan 
No.3 Louisville leads from start, beats Hokies easily 
BLACKSBURG, Va. (AP) mission deficit to seven at 38-31. Charles jones, Rodney McCray and The Hokies pulled to within three Lancaster Gordon teamed for 49 early in the final 20 minutes. But points as Louisville's third-ranked Louisville, leading 40-37 with 17:09 Cardinals led from the start en route to play, reeled off nine straight to a 73-64 Metro Conference basket­points on a dunk and free throw by ball victory over Virginia Tech's jones and field goals by Gordon, Milt Hokies last night. Wagner and McCray. The closest 
Virginia Tech got after that was fiveIt was the l,OOOth win in the his­points at 65-60 wi~h 1:20 left in thetory of the Louisville basketball 

game.

program. 
The Cardinals, now 26-3 overall 

Louisville raced to a 27-10 lead and 11-0 in the conference, led by as 
with 8:39 left in the first half before many as 19 points, 63-44, With 4:43 
the Hokies rallied to cut their inter-togo. 
WANT TO FLY? 

If your goal is to become a professional, you owe it to yourself not to overlook any opportunities that will help you reach that goal. THE NAVY PILOT (20/20 vision is required) is the finest in the world, flying a variety of soph­isticated high performance aircraft. THE NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER (vision correctible to 20/20) is the quarter­back of the Naval Aviation Team with wide-ranging expertise from state-of-the-art Data Processing to Master Tacti­cian. If you are a college graduate, or are within three years of graduation, wanting to get your feet off the ground and earn over $27,000 a year within four years and attend the world's most prestigiousflight school, contact or mail your resume to: 
are actually a poor source for measuring his overall performance and abilities on the hardwood. As Phelps said after the Hofstra game, it is his ability to "really make things happen" through his intelligence, consistency, resourcefulness, and court savvy that has helped the Irish maintain their hopes for a Tourna­ment bid. 
Nevertheless, the most im­pressive part ofhis game is his ability not to dwell on past mistakes or focus on any single facet of his game during the course of a contest. Against DePaul, for instance, Dolan did not take a shot in the entire game. Instead of forcing shots, though, he displayed his most over­looked skill, passing. Twice during the last, futile rally, he drilled picture perfect passes inside to set up layups. 
"Right now I think I'm contribut­ing to the team with my passing and rebounding," says Dolan, "but I try to prepare myself for whatever a game situation demands. It's impor­tant to have a complete game and not just specialize in one thing. A complete pla t yer is more aware of things going on on the court and can react to things better." 
So while he may not have the raw power of a Kempton, the fluid smoothness ofa Barlow, the outside shot ofa Price, or the defensive haw­king abilities of a Buchanan, Dolan has managed to synthesize all of those elements into his own little package to become, in the second half of the season, the most pleasant surprise ofPhelps' squad. 
Leave it to a man who comes from a town in New Jersey called Point 
Pleasant  to  be  the  most  pleasant  
point  and  surprise  of this  year's  
team.  

Phelps,though, knew it all along. 
Freshman jim Dolan, sboum here against Marquette earlier in the year, bas begun to emerge from the shadows of his highly­touted classmates. Recently, be bas been the team's best rebounder and one of the high scorers. For a profile of the 6-8 forward, see Louie Somogyi's story that begins on the back page. (Photo byRae­be/Blount) 
r:-;.;:--:.rHEMA"iN-EVENi-~1 
~~~ April9, 1983 ... 
1983 SENIOR FORMAL RAFFLE 
$1.00 tickets available at all dining halls during dinner and at Senior Bar through THURS MARCH 3. Many prizes, including free bid to "THE MAIN EVENT", dinners and tickets to shows including "Second City 
J Review" inChicago. I DRAWING TONITE AT SENIOR BAR!! 
L-~-----··········-········----------·~­
continuedfrom page 16 
With the game still tied 52 seconds later and Notre Dame with the ball -just when one thought Paxson would make the key one-on­one move -Dolan took a pass from Paxson, drove toward the hoop, and banked home the game-winner. 
Dolan's heroics started the Notre Dame dreams of an NCAA Tourna­ment bid that just a week before seemed unrealistic. 
"That (Marquette) game really gave me the confidence I wanted," says Dolan. "I was just at the right place at the right time." 
Since that game. Dolan has rarely been out ofplace at all on the basket­ball floor. 
Going into the DePaul contest last Saturday, Dolan had a 10-game stretch over which he scored 109 points (third only to Paxson and Kempton qver that same stretch) and garnered a team-leading 76 rebounds. Kempton was a distant second over this same period with 
49 rebounds. 
Dolan also led the team in scoring twice in the stretch (including a career-high 20 points against Maryland) and was t the runner-up two other times. He also led the team in rebounding in six of those 10 games (including a career-high 13 caroms against Bucknell), and was second in another contest. 
Such performances have earned him a starting forward slot in the last eight games. 
"I didn't think I would come this far so soon," admits Dolan, the 16th­highest scorer in New Jersey high school history. "I'm happy with the way I've progressed, but I still have a long way to go." 
Still, Dolan has reached that point where he realizes that most of his mistakes now come, not from being a freshman, but from being human. 
Dolan's recent statistics, however, 

575 N. Pennsylvania St. Office 646, Indianapolis, IN 46204
NAVAL A VIA TI0N 1-800-382-3782 

~~-T_h_e_O_b-se_r_v_e_r______---___-_ 
Thursday, March 3, 1983 -page 14 
Roller -coaster season 
Basford rebounds from adversity 
I I 
l 
Attention 

Freshmen &Sophomores Meet Your Major COTH 
It seemed that everything was going Denise Basford's way -in November. She was being groomed
Come hear some of the BEST 
to take over at point guard, of 
course. And she just might earn that
sounds around at: 
spot before the season was out. The leader oftwo state champion­ship teams at Our Lady of Mercy
THE NAZZ 
High School, Basford came to Notre Dame, like most athletes, with im­
Musical Competition peccable credentials. Basford was a unanimo1,1s all-state choice, and an honorable mention selection on two
Friday, March 4 
major all-America squads.
Saturday March 5 8:00PM 
"My grade school athletic direc­tor also refs some women's basket­ball games," says Basford. "When I 
announced my decision (to go to Notre Dame), he said, 'Good job. 
INTHENAZZ! 
Come & Enjoy NO's Finest Musical Talent 
You know, a couple of years ago, I refereed a game in Chicago and saw 
the best coach I've ever seen."' 

"She's a good athlete, of course," says that coach, Notre Dame's Mary DiStanislao. "She gives a consistent effort and works hard. (When we were recruiting her) we saw her
EASY RIDER good speed and quickness, as well as a potential to be an aggressiveTO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE 
defensive player. She has lots of 
potential." 
Taking a major role so early in her freshman year boded much bigger and better things for Basford. Playing with an aggressiveness that didn't match her mild looks, she became an early-season crowd favorite. 
EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
However, as the Irish recovered from the "Crush" foray with a nine­game winning streak that carried the club into the New Year, Denise was getting tougher on herself, and her consistency came into question. 
While Basford dwelt on her er­rors, she didn't realize her potential. Her production fell off during January, as only flashes of her November brilliance were shown in a few contests during a trying month. 
"Tech Week," the mind-bending 
days of hype aod promotion before 
the game against No. I Louisiana 
Tech, became a heart-rending ex­
perience for the freshman as she sat 
on the bench the entire game. ul 
was so ready for that game, so into 
the preparation and everything," 
says Basford. "I was really upset that 
I wouldn't get to contribute. But I 
think she ( DiStanislao) didn't play 
m,e in that game to wake me up. 
There's a reason for everything she 
does, and besides, Lisa (Brown, who 
played 16 minutes) earned her 
shot." 

The week off between Tech and 
the Irish women's key road trip to 
Bradley and Illinois State gave Bas­
ford time to take stock ofherself and 
her potential. 

The last two weekends have been 
a return to form for Basford. Her 
marks for assists and steals -4 3 and 
29, respectively -now place her 
third on the team in both categories. 
And her playing time is once again 
significant (she averages 16 minutes 
per game). 

Last weekend'.s games against 
Midwest independents Marquette 
and DePaul also brought Basford 
back into the forefront of DiStanis­
lao's offensive scheme as she hit a 
career-high eight points against the 
Demons, scoring four key points in 
the final minute of the first half to 
give the Irish breathing space going 
into the lockerroom. 

"Denise has such a quick first step 
Badgers beat Michigan in battle for Big Ten cellar 
MADISON, Wis. (AP) -Fresh­the first half. 
man Rick Olson scored a career-high 25 points, igniting Wisconsin to an 82-70 Big Ten college basketball vic­tory over Michigan last night. 
Olson scored I 2 points during a 27-10 Badger spurt that turned an early 13-10 deficit into a 37-23 Wis­consin lead with 2:18 remaining in 

15% Discount 

Wisconsin led 41-29 at intermis­sion and Olson picked up right where he left off when the second halfbegan, hitting two jump shots to give the Badgers a 4 7-3 I lead. 
The Wolverines, behind Richard Reliford and Tim McCormick, who each finished with 23 points, closed the gap to 68-62 with 5:19 left in the game. But Jim Smith hit three free throws and Cory Blackwell scored three baskets to give the Badgers some breathing room. 
Blackwell tlnished with 23 points. 
The game pitted the two teams with the worst records in the Big Ten. Wisconsin, seeking to escape the cellar, improved its record to 8­17 overall and 3-12 in the Big Ten. Michigan, I 3-12 overalL slipped to 4-11 in the conference, leading the Badgers by one game. 
The Badgers had lost their pre­
vious nine games, while the Wol­
verines have lost four of their last 
five. 

EAST Boston Coli 87, Georgetown 85, OT Duquesne 93, West V1rg1n1a 70 A1der 60, Bucknell 52, OT William & Mary 70, Delaware 58 Can1S1us 80. St. Bonaventure 74 
SOUTH Clemson 93, Duke 86 South Carolina 52, DePaul 51 
MIDWEST Dayton 97, Long Island U 85 Oh10 62, Eastern M1ch1gan 60 Nebraska 60, Kansas 58 
SOUTHWEST Baylor 63, Texas Tech 61 Southern MethodiSt 61, Texas Chnst1an 56 Oklahoma 67. Iowa State 65 
toward the basket," says DiStanislao. "She can be a driver for us, as she's shown on occasion. She's been, like any other freshman, up and down this year, but, when she's been on, she's given a big lift." 
DiStanislao, in one of her more interesting coaching moves, has opted to use a backcourt of Basford and freshman walk-on Brown. The combination added a touch ofquick­ness and aggressiveness to the Irish backcourt. 
"We were working Denise in as a pure lead guard," says DiStanislao. "She's been more comfortable in a two-guard setup where there's somebody else back there to handle the ball, too." 
"She put us in to bring up the tempo and instill quickness," says Basford. "We like to run, bring up the pace, whereas Laura (Dougherty) and Debbi (Hensley) use their smarts to set a more deliberate pace." 
Basford's attitude has allowed her to overcome adversity. The future however, presents another chal­lenge to the popular freshman. 
Vonnie Thompson, a 5-8 guard from Saginaw, Mich.. has made aver­bal committment to attend the uni­versity next fall. and, as DiStanislao has said, "could be aJohn Paxson for us." 
"I'm not scared at au:: says Bas­ford, speaking very unlike a fresh­man. "She'll be an asset to the team, and she'll make me work a lot hard­er. I'll play if I earn the opportunity. The competition will make me a much better ballplayer-you've got to look at it that way." 
Listening to Denise Basford gives one the impression of a player whose experience of both sides of success ha.'> gilded her resolve to make sure that her upswing is far from complete. 
"I've had my ups and downs," says Basford. "But I've learned a lot and I've come back." 
Freshman guard Denise Basford has had more ups and downs this season than her frequently inconsistent team. But, like her team, she seems to be back on the right track as the regular season winds down. Mike Riccardiprofiles Denise on thispage. (Photo b_y Scott Bower) 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
In the wild ferris wheel ride that has been the 1982-83 season for the Notre Dame women's basketball team, no player has experienced more drastic highs and lows than freshman Denise Basford. 
Basford's recent contributions off the Notre Dame bench are the result of a long, up-and-down year of growing up for the 5-9 guard from Farmington, Mich. 
Basford made an impressive debut with the Irish, starring in Novem­ber's intrasquad game and playing more than 20 minutes in each of Notre Dame's Orange Crush Tournament games, showing poise and ball-handling ability that belied her lack of exprience. She was a large part of the silver lining around the two tournament losses to Top 20 opponents in the tournament. 
"Before the first game (against UCLA), I wasn't real nervous," says Basford, "but when I first went in, there was a feeling of awe playing against a team like that. Once I shook that, though, everything was all right." 
COTH offers a comprehensive course of studies in theory & practice of contemporary media and theatre 
All students interested in film and video, 
media studies and mass communication are 
cordially invited to visit departmental 
facilities in the Loft, O'Shaughnessy Hall, 
Thursday, March 3 from 6:30pm to 8:00pm 
All students interested in theatre are cordially 
invited to visit departmental facilities in Room 1, Washington Hall, Today , March 3, from 6:30pm to 8:00pm 
....._ 
q not including, · s~ehems 
N.D.-S.M.C. 
•f s . 
JEWELERS 
Students 
SINCE 1917
F 0 X 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 

University Park Mall and ·Concord. & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
Ihe~~===================================== 
~~4()lell~======================~==T=h=u=r=sd=a=y,=M=~==ch==3,=1=9=8=3===p=ag=e=l=S
Bloom County 

~~------~~~ 
.--=--=--­
. 
< 






ACROSS 1 A Wimbledon champ

The Daily Crossword 
5 Swank 9 Stick or 
dash
12 
13 Crazy one ":":"""+--t--t--1 14 Brutish one 16 'Barna's ..,..,...+--+-+----1 Crimson ­17 Apartment· 
-+--+-t--1 size canine 19 Slime 20 Equipage 21 "The -of 
Chillon" -,-+--t---1 23 Military "' top man: abbr. 25 Hindrance -+--+--1 26 "The -the crime" 


Photius 
HE~ CAN I 80RKOW SoM£ OF YOu~ '>HAVIN4 CREAM? 

29 Salt or ester 
33 Horse opera performer of old 
34 Locus 36 Sponge 37 Bleed 38 David's son 40 Ring acronym 41 "-Lay 
Dying" 42 Peak 43 LBJ or DOE 44 Metric unit 46 Weapon 
found on 

"Pequod" 49 Gist 51 Downfall 
52 Windowlike 
Berke Breathed 

Jeb Cashin 


I 

Campus 
•1 
p.m. -CPR Certification, for ND/SMC Stu­dents, Havican Hall, 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "The Frenet Frames of Compact Submanifolds in Com­plex Projective Spaces," Prof. Hsin-sheng Tai, 226 CCMB 

•6:15 
and 7 p.m. -Christo Filmi, "Valley Cur­tain," "Running Fence," Annenberg Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -AIESEC Meeting, L?iortune Little Theatre 

•7 
and 10:15 p.m. -Film, "Camelot," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Finance Club, Sl 

•7 
p.m. -Collection for Senior Class Trip to Bahamas, LaFortune Lobby 

•7:30 
p.m. -Bicycle Club Meeting, 2nd Floor LaFortune 

•7:30 
p.m. -Justice Education Lecture, "The Gospel Agenda in Global Perspective," Sister Marie Augusta Neal, Carroll Hall 

•s 
p.m. -ND%SMC Theatre, "Marathon '33,' Washington Hall, S2.50 students & S3 adults 

•s 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Seton Hall, ACCArena 

•s 
p.m. -Piano Recital, Ronald YaDeau, Little Theatre 


T.V. Tonight 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 9:30p.m. 10p.m. 

16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 34 Making It Count 16 MASH 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 College Basketball 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Fame 28 Condo 34 All Creatures Great and Small 28 Amanda's 16 Gimme A Break 28 Too Close for Comfort 34 Mystery 16 Cheers 22 Family Feud 28 It Takes Two 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Sneak Previews 
The Far Side 

1 J Ot'~ ·Chronl~ll Fll!urtl 1113 

"Gezundheit." 
opening

Wednesday's Solution 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
3/3/83 

Junior Class of Notre Dame & St. Mary's, Flanner, Lyons, PW, Stanford, Pangborn, and Holy Cross in cooperation with Howard Hall 
Presents 
A Chance to Dance 

BEACH PARTY! $1 
Friday March 4 9:30 · 1:30 Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom Door Prises & Refreshments ,___NO· SMC ID REQUIRED!! 
56 Temperance agitator 60 Riverin England 61 Tom Joad's 
portrayer 63 Cleave 64-Domingo 65 Specialty 
of Pindar 
66 Combina· tions of minerals 
67 Age suffix 68 Actress Bayes 
DOWN 1 Can. prov. 2 Grime 3 Pitching 
great, Waite­4 Practiced 
cajolery 5 Nutlet 6 Scull 7 "Gripsholm" 
for one 8 Cultivators 9 Foil 
10 Bert Lahr role 11 Chopping 
tool 12 Equal 15 Venezuelan 
river 18 The Emerald Isle 
22 Setting of"The Crucible" 
24 Thicket 26 Pickle 27 Doubting 
one 28 Gordon of the comics 30 Houston 
athlete 31 Keepsake 32 Primitive 
poem 33 Wire nail 35 Sacred 
table 38 Fields 39 Gasps 43 Float 45 Revises 47 "Guys and 
Dolls" author 48 Song styl· 
ist Edith 50 Free drink 52 Gambling 
game 53 Glade or 
green 54 Not any 55-of 
Cleves 57 -·China 58 Frankfort's 
river 59 Houston· based group 62 Map abbr. 

~iorThtr Thursday Night 
Rum & Coke Special 
"\0(\\\.8 Senior Formal Bids will be available 

Also a Raffle for a FREE BIDI 

Thursday, March 3, 1983-page 16
SQorts 
Seton Hall visits tonight 
Irish get chance to even score 
By RICH O'CONNOR Daryl Devero, and forward Howard Bruno, Calif., where he averaged 19 Sports Writer McNeill, who combined for 43 points and seven rebounds a game points and 1 5 rebounds a game last last season. 
Sometimes you just know that year, have graduated, and Mike In­As Seton Hall's point guard, things aren't going your way. Take, gram andJohn Collins, the No.2 and Powell has been scoring 9.1 points a for instance, the Seton Hall basket­No. 4 scorers, are sitting out this game while dishing off 3.6 assists. ball team that arrives at Notre Dame season with injuries. Powell also has the distinction of tonight to t take on the Irish in the Also gone are last season's two leading the Pirates in blocked shots ACC at8p.m. head coaches, Bill Raferty, who with 13. 
Suffering through a 5-21 season to stepped down three weeks before Morris transfered from Kansas date -despite beating Pitt in Big the first game, and interim coach City (Kan.) Community College East Conference action the Hoddy Mahon. Stepping in to fill the where he he was named a juco third­Pirates must close out their season void is P.). Carlesimo. A 1971 team All-American after averaging against a Notre Dame team they em­Fordham graduate, Carlesimo 22 points and six rebounds a game. barrassed last season 71-58 in the played for Digger Phelps' 26-3 Morris, a natural forward, is holding Byrne Meadowlands Arena in North­Fordham team. down Seton Hall's pivot slot. The 6-6 ern NewJersey. Carlesimo had spent seven years junior is scoring 8.4 points while 
To make matters worse, this as the head man at Wagner College, grabbing 4.1 rebounds a game. Notre Dame squad is a team whose attaining a record of 65-83 and Nate "Skate" Rogers h~s returned record stands at 16-9 and must win taking the Seahawks to three post­for his sophomore season to claim to have a chance at NCAA post­season tournaments before taking the other forward spot. The 6-7 season play. On top of all of this, a the Seton Hall job. native of Orange, N.J., played in all Pirate win would be their .first win Carlesimo immediately began the but four games during his freshman on the road in ten tries. process of bringing Seton Hall up to campaign. This season Rogers has 
Seton Hall does not return a start­the competitive level of the Big East been averaging 7.3 points and four er from last y..::ar's squad that Conference by adding four quality rebounds a game. finished with an 1 1-16 record after recruits. Tom Brown will round out the winning nine of its first ten games. Three of these additions have Pirates' starting five. A 6-6 junior 
Guard Dan Callandrillo, forward earned starting berths in their first who can play either forward or year at the Hall. Freshman Andre guard, Brown leads Seton Hall in McCloud has been the big gun, shooting percentage (55 percent)
Prophecy coming true 
however. The 6-6 forward from while averaging seven points and six Washington, D.C., who has started rebounds a game. all 26 Pirate games, has already These players face a Notre Dame 
proven his ability to play with the team that has its back up against the best in the country as he averages 1 7 wall. In order t to have the slimmest By LOUIE SOMOGYI hanan was regarded as the best all-tying basket and -just when one points and seven rebounds a game. hope for an NCAA invitation, the Sports Writer around athlete on the squad. thought that Kempton or Marquette Also gaining starting roles in their Irish have to win their final three With Dolan, however, there was would get the rebound underneath first year in a Pirate uniform are a games against the Pirates, Dayton Ever since Notre Dame"basketball no comparison, no bestowal of a -Dolan tipped the ball in to tie the pair of junior college transfers, Ken-(Monday), and Northern Iowa coach Digger Phelps made national title, no superior abilities. Despite score. ny Powell and Marvin Morris. (Thursday). The tournament selec­
~news last spring with revelations of his 31-point and 14-rebound See DOLAN, page 13 Powell, a 6-3 junior guard, played the cheating and scandals that go on averages as a New Jersey high-two years for Skyline College in San See PIRATES, page 11 in college athletics today, he has 
Dolan emerges from shadows 
schoolsenior,hewasnotselectedto ============================================================================================= 
been kiddingly labeled as "The Holy the prestigious McDonald's All-One." America squad like his frontline But, after his prophecy in the classmates, Kempton and Barlow. 
preseason about 6-8 freshman Jim Once the season began, he began 
The Cubs and the meaning oflife 
Dolan, though, one has to wonder if an even deeper journey into Phelps' words are indeed becoming oblivion. 
Thoughts that enter and exit while I'm trying to stay
the gospel. While Kempton, Barlow, and his 
awake in commercial law:
"Jim Dolan might be the surprise roommate Price all earned starting 
Craig Chval
Bobby Knight's recent less-than-cordial dealings withofthe freshmen because he's such an roles in the lineup, and Buchanan the media certainly didn't cost Indiana any good will Sports Writerintelligent basketball player," served as an important player offthe with the United States Basketball Writers Association,predicted Phelps. "He knows the bench, Dolan was relegated to most­which named the Hoosiers' Randy Wittman as its playerI game, he doesn't make mistakes, he's ly mop-up roles, averaging only 3.2 
i 
of the year in District 4. Wittman isn't even the bestan excellent passer, and a good points and 2. 5 rebounds through his player on his own team (Ted Kitchel), let alone the Big
shooter. first 12 games. 
Ten (Illinois' Derek Harper), or the state Oohn Pax­"Before the year is over, you'll see Suddenly, Phelps' prediction 
son). · 
You can thank Digger's deliberate, if unspectacular,him in key situations. He'll get the about Dolan began to sound as hope­
I Wittman is simply the most-publicized player on style ofball for that. Had the Irish gotten into a first-half 
-~key rebound when you thought less as the "We're-going-to-steal-20­Kempton was to or wins" prediction he made before the what was, before Kitchel's injury, a classic example ofa track meet with their shooting eyes still on the bus, the
going get it, team that was far greater than the sum of its individual game would have been a rout. To Ray Meyer's credit,you'll see him make a key one-on­1981-82 basketball season. 

parts. For proofofthat, we'll have to wait for next year's DePaul played by far its best half-court game of the
one when you thought Paxson was "Naturally, I was a little frustrated, NBA season, if there is one. But, then, only one of the season, save the final two minutes.
going to do it." but I wasn't really disappointed with 
"Surprise" was Phelps' word my early season performances," says top seven players from Indiana's famed 1975 and 1976 • teams -Quinn Buckner -has been anything more Rest assured that NBC will come to regret its overex­
choice because of the way Dolan Dolan. "It doesn't work out that way than a journeyman player. posure of announcers Dick Enberg and AI McGuire.
seemed to be overlooked by the fans where you think you should play The fact that Scott May, Kent Benson, Steve Green, Surely the Peacock People realize that familiarity al­and the press in the early part of the some more in a game just because Bobby Wilkerson, Tom Abernathy and john Laskowski most always breeds contempt, especially when itseason. With four other highly­you want to. You just have to go out fell far short ofNBA stardom, though, is hardly an indict­comes to sportscasters. It may be difficult to believe,touted recruits joining the squad, he and work harder and concentrate ment of Knight. On the contrary, the eventual unmask­but the now-ridiculed Curt Gowdy was once the dar­. I became lost in the shuffle . more on the court." 
ing of their run-of-the-mill talents is a testimony to ling ofTV sports.
Tim Kempton was seen to be the The patience paid off for Dolan in Knight's coaching genius. In the first place, Enberg's workload is outrageous.
heir apparent to John Paxson as a the 13th game of the year against 
• Recently, he has made an uncharacteristically highNotre Dame All-American, Ken Bar­traditional Midwest nemesis, Mar­Can Dallas Green be serious? The general manager of number of slip-ups. That should hardly come as alow was touted as the next Orlando quette. 
the Phillies-West is outraged because a Chicago colum­surprise to NBC executives, who have made EnbergWoolridge, Joseph Price emulated Phelps prophecy was fulfilled. 
nist picked his 30-and-over club to finish sixth in the resemble Pac-man as he scurriesfrom airport to airport.
the sharp-shooting swingman in the With 58 seconds left and the Irish National League East. There are two conclusions in the Although I still find him both entertaining and en­mold ofTracy jackson, and joe Buc-trailing 57-55, Kempton missed the wake of Green's series of shrewd moves (Bill Caudill, lightening, McGuire is beginning to wear thin in some 
Ferguson jenkins, Keith Moreland, Dan Larsen, Bump circles. As somebody else put it, as smart as he sounds Wills, et a!.) since leaving Philadelphia -Green is still while second-guessing coaches on the air, it's difficult on the Phillies payroll, and somebody must have read to imagine how his Marquette teams ever lost a game. the offensive prediction to him. Besid~s, the guy is But when NBC sent a camera crew on horseback to probably right. The Cubs are due for an off year after follow Cowboy Dick and Cowboy AI home on the range finishing fifth last season. a few weeks back, it was just too much. McGuire ap­
• parently believes otherwise, but his status as a pretty 
By the way, did anybody at Saturday night's Notre fair basketball coach and a pretty fair commentator Dame hockey game bother to find out if all of those does not qualify him to come into my living room and people (not fans) were there to say their goodbyes or to tell me the meaning oflife. offer their apologies? What was that about returning to • the scene of the crime? How can I be so sure that since the mercury is flirting 
I 
It goes without saying (even though it surely hasn't with 70 in Chicago while my White Sox are in Florida, I gone unsaid) that Digger Phelps did an impeccable job won't be shivering in 30-degree weather on opening of orchestrating Notre Dame's comeback against day next month? DePaul on Saturday. But his coaching performance in • the first half was equally as impressive. Even though the Well, anyway, did anybody else notice that, while the Irish shot less than 40 percent and avoided the offensive brains behind M*A*S*H were able to overcome quite backboard in the first half, they trailed a team with more nicely the defections of Henry Blake, Trapperjohn, and raw talent and with home court advantage by just four Radar, the program never was the same once FrankI points. Burns left? 
l 








