-~---------~ 
• • . Arms talks -page 7· 

VOL. XVII, NO. 128 th~ independent stud~nt newspaper serving notre Jam~ and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 1983 
Washington beats Epton for mayor 
CHICAGO (AP) -Rep. Harold Washington was elected Chicago's first black mayor early today, riding a huge black voter turnout to thwart Bernard Epton' bid to become the city's first Republican mayor in 52 years. 
The 60-year-old two-term Democratic congressman's victory margin was less than 5 percent over his white opponent out ofnearly 1.3 million votes cast in the city's big­gest election turnout since the 1944 presidential race. 
With ninety-nine of the precincts reported, Washington had 656,727 votes or 51.7 percent, to 616,159 or 
48.1 percent for Epton. Socialist Ed Warren had 3,725 votes. 
Washington achieved his victory despite the overriding importance of race as an issue, and despite at­tacks from his opponent for failing to file federal income tax returns for four years and serving 36 days in jail. 
Board of Elections Commis­sioners spokesman Tom Leach said the outstanding votes were con­centrated in three lakefront wards, where Washington could be ex­pected to do well, and four predominantly black wards of the city. 
A computer malfunction had delayed for a time the transmission of votes from 222 precincts on the South and Southwest sides. The mal­function required election officials to hand-deliver the votes to City Hall for tabulation. 
Late Tuesday night, a hoarse and weary-looking Epton refused either to concede or claim victory, telling cheering backers at a downtown hotel: "I think that when we fmally leave this hotel you will have the next mayor ofChicago." 
The Chicago Board of Election Commissioners estimated 88 per­

cent of the 1.6 million voters had 
cast ballots. 
Washington benefitted yesterday from an exceptional black turnout, and his campaign manager Al Raby said he was running better than 50 percent among the swing Hispanic voters. 
Massive numbers of whites who voted Democratic in the primary switched to Epton. But Washington ran better among whites than he had in the February primary -up from 6 percent to about 20 percent, according to an Associated PressWMAQ-TV sampling. 
Epton was watching returns in a suite at the downtown Palmer House. With him were his family and Lt. Gov. George Ryan, and spokes­man Rick Murray described the mood as "excellent. Everybody up there is smiling." 
However, in interview with WMAQ-TV, the Republican lashed out at the local news media, saying they had written things about him that were unfair. Epton was par­ticularly critical of the handling of his income tax disclosures. 
"I'm not bitter -I think they're just slime," he said. 
"We feel good. It looks solid," Washington, 60, said after a deli breakfast in his Hyde Park neighbor­hood where he voted. "We've been ahead since day one." 
Washington campaigned through 
the day, while Epton -who had 
been a quiet candid~te in the final 
days -attended the Chicago White 
Sox home opener against the Bal­
timore Orioles. 
"Hopefully we'll start off with a victory there, and ifwe're lucky and .the Lord is willing we'll have a vic­tory when we end the day," Epton, 
see WASHINGTON, page6 

Chicago Democratic mayoral candidate Harold Washington, center, in light-colored coat, campaigns on Chicago's Near West Side on Mon­day. His entourage carried the large "8," symbolizing the "Punch 8" slogan, referring to 
'Democratic coalition' 

Chicago mayor calls for unity 
By PAUL McGINN Washington, Chicago's first black Executive Editor mayor, called on the city to reunite to heal the wounds ofthe election. In making his victory speech this 
CHICAGO -Straining to make morning, Washington, reading from himself heard over the cheers of a prepared text, called "for blacks, 5,000 of his supporters, Harold whites, Hispanics, Jews and 
Gentiles, Catholics and Protestants 
of all stripes to join hands to form a new democratic coalition."

'Future ofthe Family' 
Washington repeatedly was inter­rupted by the enthusiastic crowd at Donnelly Hall near Lake Michigan


Alex Haley to lecture tonight 
on the South Side of the city. "History was made tonight," he said 
By SONYA STINSON 
excitedly, but addressing those who 
Senior StaffReporter 
supported Republican Bernard Ep­ton, he commented, "I understand Renowned author Alex Haley will appear tonight in your needs and desires, and I know I the Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. to speak on "The can rely on your cooperation."

Future of the Family." Haley is the author ofRoots, the Said AI Raby, Washington's cam­number one bestseller in U.S. pubiishing history, and paign manager, last night, "The new 
The Autobiography ofMalcolm X, a controversial book 
administration would stress the 

which is now required reading in many high schools bringing together of people to heal and colleges. 
the wounds of the election. TheyBorn in Ithaca, N.Y., August 11, 1921, and reared in 

(Epton supporters) are not going to 

Henning, Tennessee, Haley began his writing career lose anything. In fact, we hope that while serving in the Coast Guard during World War II. 
the people will look forward to He enlisted in the Coast Guard in 1939 as a messboy and voting for Harold four years from for many years spent long hours aboard ship trying to now." 

write stories, few ofwhich were published. 
A carnival atmosphere prevadedIn 1952, the Coast Guard created for Haley the new around Donnelly Hall. Inside, two rating ofChiefJournalist, giving him the task ofassisting out ofthe three stages provided con­in public relations. Haley retired in 1959 and started a stant entertainment. Outside, career in freelance magazine writing. 

meanwhile, people desiring to profit

His tirst book, The Autobiography of Malcolm X., 
from the election sold "We won" 

published in 1965, was selected among "The Te11 Best pennants, shi!1s and buttons. 
American Books of the 1960's Decade." 
A record turnout of 1.25 million 

Haley's second book, Roots, was the culmination of voters, or about 80 percent of the an intensive search to trace the history of the maternal city's 1.63 million registered voters, side of his own family. The book has been published in gave the 60-year-old Democratic 3 7 languages and has sold over six million hardcover U.S. congressman from Illinois' First copies. A television mini-series based on the book drew Distrist a 40,000-vote win over 61­a audience of over 130 million viewers, the largest year-old white Republican former program audience in television history. 
State Representative Epton. 

Haley has received the Pulitzer Prize and the National 
Book Award. He lives in Los Angeles and travels ex­reporting, Washington had 656,727
Alex Haley
tensively on lecture tours. 
votes (52 percent) to Epton's 616, 159 votes ( 48 percent). 

Analysts believe that 83-84 per­cent ofChicago's estimated 650,000 black voters, 78-79 percent of the city's estimated 800,000 white voters and 82-83 percent of Chicago's 95,000 Hispanics cast their ballots. Nineteen of Chicago's 50 wards have a majority of black voters. 
Reports reveal that Washington received over 99 percent of the black vote while 80-81 percent of the white vote went to Epton. The Hispanic vote was split almost 50­50. 
Epton, whose supporters had gathered in the Grand Ballroom of the Palmer House downtown -the same room in which the Senior For­mal was held last weekend ­refused to concede the election and left the ballroom opting to wait to comment until later this morning when the results were to be recorded officially. 
The election returns culminated a campaign which began when Wash­ington defeated Mayor Jane Byrne and State's Attorney Richard M. Daley in the Democratic primary on Feb. 22. 
Bernard Epton was the lone mayoral hopeful in the Republican primary. 
Chicago's two major dailies, the Chicago Tribune and the Sun­Times, which had origianlly en­dorsed Daley before the primary, endorsed Washington in the general election. 
The mayoral campaign gained na­tional attention when many long­time Democrats, including eight of the city's 50 aldermen, bolted the party to support Epton's candidacy. 
see CHICAGO, page 3 


·...,_.--·.-c--.---~--­



ewsBrie/§ 
By The Obseroer and The Associated Press 
Dedication ceremonies for Notre Dame's new Center for Social Concerns building begin tomorrow through Friday. Father Henri Nouwen, a leading expert in social justice, will deliver the homily at a Thanksgiving Mass at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church tomorrow. Asymposium on social justice will be held Friday at 9 am. in the Center for Continuing Education. Holy Cross College history professor and Notre Dame alumnus David O'Brien will lead the symposium. The center's staff has been working in the newly renovated WNDU building since january. -The Observer 
The Snite Museum of Art will hold a benefit book sale today and tomorrow from 10 am. to 2 p.m. in the Great Hall ofO'Shaughnessy Hall. On sale will be art magazines, catalogues, monographs and books. Proceeds will go towards the purchase of shelves for the Snite Museum Library. -The Observer 
Three Saint Mary's studentsreceived recogni­
tion from the district Beta Beta Beta Biological Society for research papers presented at the society's recent convention at Tri-State Uni­versity. Nancy Samberg, a senior from Birmingham, Mich., won the Frank G. Brooks Award for Excellence in Student Research for her paper, "Cytogeneic Analysis of Two Families with Idiopathic Scoliosis." Samberg, a member ofthe society's Xi Chi chapter, is the first Saint Mary's student to earn top honors in the compeition in five years. Beth Ferstel, a senior from Chicago, and Carol Cahalan, a senior from Logansprot, Ind,. received third place for their joint project, "The Determination of Geographical Origins of Saimiri Sciorcus Using Cytogenic Analysis." Beta Beta Beta Biological 
Society, founded in 1922 as an undergraduate honor society in biol­ogy, promotessound scholarship, disseminates scientific knowledge and encourages research in biology. The society lists nearly 30 chap­ters on campuses throughout the United States and Puerto Rico. ­
The Observer 

Catalan folksinger Xavier Ribalta will set the poems and stories ofhis culturally-rich native land to music during a performance at 7 p.m. tonight in the Little Theatre on the Saint Mary's campus. Catalonia, a section in the northeastern part ofSpain, has boasted a distinct personality, language and culture since the Middle Ages. Several poets, whose works Ribalta has transformed into songs, helped keep the Catalan culture alive and flourishing underground when it was banned from schools and mass media, during the reign of Francisco Franco. Ribalta produced his first record in 1965 and made his first American concert tour in 1980. He has performed at Carnegie Hall, the World's Fair and the United Na­tions. Tonight's concert is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Spanish Club. -The Observer 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said yesterday interest rates remain too high to support a long-term economic recovery. Volcker, the nation's central banker, told the House Banking Committee that interest rates are abnormal­ly high considering the low rate ofinflation now and the outlook for slow inflationary growth in the future. He said the level of interest rates should not block the eco11omic recovery now under way from continuing in the short run, but the long-term outlook is in jeopardy. "If the inflation outlook is as good as I think it is, then ... interest rates are high relative to what is necessary and desireable to sustain a long, healthy recovery," he said. "But I would not make the case that 
in the short run, the level of interest rates are incompatible with a 
business recovery." Although inflation is expected by most 
economists to run at a rate ofabout 4 percent or less this year, many 
short-and long-term interest rates are running above 10 percent. 
Volcker blamed the high interest rates on lenders' concern that infla­
tion will surge again in the future, worries about huge federal budget 
deficits during the 1980s and the elimination oflaws that had once 
imposed interest rate ceilings. -AP 
Physicist Edward Teller says he objects to 
being called "the father of the hydrogen bomb." "The H-bomb has never sent me a Father's Day card," he said Monday before a lecture at the University of North Dakota. The hydrogen bomb was "the work of many people," the 75 year-old scientist said, adding that he and the others involved in the earlier atomic bomb development near Los Alamos, N.M., should have talked more about the broader implications of the scientific breakthrough. -AP 
Philippine first ladyImelda Marcos said yesterday that the birth of her grandson helped her accept her eldest daughter's marriage to a divorced sportsman, a union she once vehe­mently opposed. A presidential palace announcement quoted Mrs. Marcos as saying that after months of soul-searching, she reached a tUrning point after her daughter Imee, 27, gave birth to a 6-pound, B-ounce boy in a Honolulu, Hawaii, hospitalla'lt Saturday. The boy, to be christened Fernando Martin, is President Ferdinand E. Marcos' frrst grandchild. The president acknowledged his daughter's 17­month-old marriage to Filipino amateur golfer and professional bas­ketball coach lomas Manotoc for the frrst time last month. -AP 
Showers and thunderstorms today and 
tonight. Windy and mild. High in the upper 50s. Low tonight around 
50. Showers likely tomorrow, high in the mid 50s. -AP 
Wednesday, April 13, 1983 -page 2 

Those commencement blues 
After putting in a grueling four (or more) year stint, the graduating senior may find the experience a bit anti­climactic. Suddenly, he finds himselfdressed in a gown, holding an empty diploma case, and nursing one hell of a headache from the night before. 
After a fun-drenched fmal semester filled with cut classes, exciting celebrations, and furtive looks to the future, the last thing most seniors need is the typical commencement exercises. Within hours after a quick photo session by the Library, a few harried and abortive attempts at farewells by the ACC, the graduate is on his or her way home. 
Even though spending hours listening to semi­important types drone on may be a fitting way to end one's undergrad career, some consideration should be given to the audience. Notre Dame has a history of seeking out famous commencement speakers whose purpose is not so much to impart wisdom into the eager minds of those departing, but rather to further bolster 
this school's prestige. Why diploma with a handshake must we engage in such an from Father Hesburgh. But exercise ofself-narcissim? until the year some 
Two years ago, Notre recipient of a doctorate in Dame scored a "coup" and electrical engineering gets succeeded in obtaining the smart and wears a joy buzz­speaking services of one er, this ceremony won't Ronald Reagan, president. hold the attention of those To the casual observer, the on the floor and in the pomp and circumstance of stands. hi·, visit was interesting. What is needed at Notre Tt.ere were lots of short­Dame is not a commence­haired men with earphones ment to be shown off to the running about, and a pack of outside world. Instead of protesters plopped down making the graduates and south of the ACC. However specatators pawns to this ad­things weren't so nifty for ministrative showcase, why the thousands of spectators not have a ceremony for and graduates. They were these people? During the forced to stand in long lines doctoral conferrals, slides in the sun waiting to pass could be silently shown of 
through the metal detectors. More than one elderly per­son gave-up a hard-won commencement seat in order to avoid sunstroke. Once inside, Reagan disappointed the massed press by forgoing any kind of dramatic policy statement, and instead giving a ho-hum speech on life. ReadingReader'sDigest would have been just as uplifting, and the audience was deprived of the spec­tacle of hundreds ofchampaign corks aimed at Messrs. O'Meara and Hesburgh. 
Last year Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau graced the South Dome of the ACC. Security was limited to just a few discreet Dudley Dorights in suits. However, after his speech, many graduates were heard trying to remember what his topic was. What connec­tion did Trudeau have with Notre Dame? For better or worse, few domers have had any interaction with our bilingual friends to the north. More than likely, Trudeau fit the bill as "the nearest available head ofstate." 
The rest of the commencement exercises are just 
"Go for the Gusto" 
Design Editor.............Troy "l.abatt's" Illig Design Assistant ...... Mary "Coors" Healy Maureen "Root" Convery Typesetters .............. Reggie "Blatz"' Daniel Tom "Mug 0' Blue" MacLennan News EditorMark "Micheloh"' Worscheh Copy Editor.. Diane "Bussschhh" Dirkers Features Layout........ Heineken liamilton Editorials Layout ................ Libby's Strohs Sports Copy Editor. Tim "Molson" Neely ND Day Edltor.jane "Cold ~pring" Panfil SMCDay Editor.. Tim "Iron City" Petters 
Typists ............. Mary "Dos Equis" Torchia Betsy "Rolling Rocker" Porter Ad Design-....................... Paul "Matts" Slota Photographer.... Scott "Schnapps" Bower Guest Appearances...... "Orange Vodka & 
Mountain Dew" Larkin joannie "Generic" Euch Carol "Lone Star" Camp 
Bruce "Moosehead" Oakley 
Dave "Old Vienna" Dziedzic Paul "McGuiness" A weary producer 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year($t 5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
.................oupon............... 
Students and Staff 
of St. mary's and Notte Dame 
additional oH


SlOO 
On your best deal on any new Toyota. 
Just present coupon and 1.0. to 
ffiichael Fahey at 


over100staff, alum, & students sold Call237-4052 one per customer .................coupon................ 
Attention Juniors, Seniors," and Grad Students: 

Establish Credit Visa and master Charge 
$12 instead of $25! APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE Monday, Apri/11 through Friday, Apri/15 11 AM to 1:30PM in LaFortune Sponsored by St. Joe Bank and ND Finance Club 
~an 
Ver Berkm~s 
-Managing Editor Emeritus 
Inside Wednesday 
that -exercises. In addition to the always scintillating 
main speaker, there are the hordes ofhonorary degrees 
handed out. Who makes the list oflucky winners seems 
to be determined more by who can come and who has 
donated what, than by who "best fits the ideals ofNotre 
Dame," unless ofcourse those are the ideals. 
Another large chunk of time is devoted to handing 
out doctorates to those that earned them. Certainly, 
someone who completes that tremendous amount of 
work deserves the special recognition of receiving his 
campus moments for those present to reflect on. Get rid of the prominent speakers. By now we 
·shouldn't have to prove our prestige to the outside world. The seniors and graduate students could be asked to nominate and vote for the person they think would best cap offtheir Notre Dame experience. 
Although the quality is at times variable, the student speakers are a valuble part ofthe program. Because they are known to many oftheir peers they can, perhaps bet­ter than anyone else, put graduation into perspective. Perhaps it is time to open up the podium to the diverse thoughts of more graduates. Even if an occasional speech was bad, it would be"'more interesting than a ceremony that is a glorified Library Auditorium lecture. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board or staff. 



The Observer Wednesday, April 13, 1983 -page 3 


Bar managers seek distinctive decor 
By SCOTI HARDEK run the bar. We don't want to lose StaffReporter the feeling that the bar is one for the seniors run by the seniors." 
Next year's Senior Bar managers Roemer sees the new senior bar as will try to bring the establishment its a "big cash operation" and cited this own distinct character, according to as one of the major reasons for the next year's manager, Larry "Bubba" new administrative position. The Cunningham. "Right now someone new administrator will report could walk into the bar and not directly to Roemer, who hopes that know whether they were in South the new position can provide Bend at Notre Dame or in Topeka, "provide continuity". Woods and Kansas," said Cunningham. Cunningham agree that .the new 
Kevin Woods, current general position is a good idea and should 
manager of Senior Bar, echoed the help standardize financial 
same opinion. He cited a push for procedures. 
the University to put more money Roemer also reported that about 
into the inside of the new building. 15 underage people have been 
Though happy for the S750,000 caught in Senior Bar this year. Each 
facility, Woods said that" S30,00Q to received a noo fine and loss of 
S40,000 are needed for improve­Senior Bar priviledges. He said that 
ments to the inside". the policy on underage people will 
At this time, the only major not change and that Notre Dame 
change planned for the bar is a Security has been checkingfor age at 
change in accounting. An ad­the door more frequently in the past 
ministrator will be hired instead of month and a half. 
the senior business manager to Roemer commended the job 
handle the financial responsibilities done by Kevin Woods, Marty Vittel, 
and to try to standardize procedures Tom Conroy and Mary Cantwell, 
according to James Roemer, dean of this year's managers. Next year's 
students. No one has been selected managers will take over during 
for the job yet, however. senior week. Mark Ruehlmann takes 
Roemer emphasized that over as General Manager, Jim 
"students who patronize the bar will Moriarity as Inventory Manager, and 
deal mostly with the seniors who Larry Cunningham as Club Manager. 
House should pass nuke freeze resolution 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Anuclear tactics. freeze resolution was expected by Last summer, a similar freeze supporters to pass the House today measure lost in the House by a slim despite President Reagan's 11th 204-202 margin. hour lobbying against it. Reagan, Defense Secretary Caspar 
White House spokesman Larry W. Weinberger and other national Speakes acknowledged on Tuesday security officials met Tuesday with a that it would be "very tough" for the group of undecided Democrats, administration to defeat the resolu­trying to persuade them to support a tion coming up for House floor ac­toned-down GOP substitute for the tion today. freeze resolution. 
"The way it is presented, it is very Hours earlier, Weinberger had an­difficult for a member ofCongress to nounced proposals for improving cast a vote against," said Speakes. "It "hot line" communications with the kind ofcomes on in an apple pie fas­Soviet Union as a means for averting hion." nuclear war through accident or 
The measure calls for negotiations miscalculation. between the United States and the "These are very simple things. Soviet Union to seek a "mutual and They would benefit everybody," verifiable freeze and reductions in Weinberger told a Pentagon news nuclear weapons." conference. 
Rep. Edward J. Markey, D/Mass., an author of the freeze resolution, The proposals include upgrading said "the mood among freeze sup­the existing teleprinter t "hot line" porters is one ofconfidence that we between U.S. and Soviet leaders to a will prevail on this crucial vote in high-speed system that could relay the House." photos and charts, creation of 
The House debated the resolution separate lines between military for 12 hours on March 16 but failed commands and also between em­to reach a final vote after freeze op­bassies, and provisions for consulta­ponents offered a series of amend­tion over possible nuclear trrorist ments and used other delaying incidents. 

]enifer Butler and Bob Newhouse listen as Profes­sor George Tisten ofthe Art Department atNotre Dame explains some ofthefinerpoints ofrender­
• • • Chicago 

continued from pagel 
During the course of the voting worker. 61, told reporters at a Near North yesterday, the election board hot Washington checked into the of­Side movie theater where he voted. line received over 1,000 complaints ffice about noon to discuss last 
As in the primary, assistant U.S. at­regarding suspicious electioneering minute strategies, but was then un­torneys and others monitored for procedures. But according to a available for comment. A Washing­Most notable among those aldermen spokesman for a United States mar­ton supporter commented, "I've 
was 85-year-old Vito Marzullo, dean 
shall which was helping to monitor been here 48 hours. It hasn't been of the City Council. National atten­
the election, "there were no sub­quiet any ofthose 48 hours.'' tion increased as Washington stantiated cases ofvote fraud." The Epton headquarters, located received endorsements from nation­
Election day was relatively quiet on Michigan Avenue, was relativelyally prominent Democrats, includ· 
for both candidates. Epton voted quiet throughout the day as suppor­ing Sen. John Glenn of Ohio, Sen. 
early in his neighorhood precinct ters concentrated on telephonngGary Hart of Colorado and former 
and attended the Chicago White Sox strong Epton precincts on the South· vice president Walter Mondale, all 
home opener against the Baltimore west and Northwest Sides where the candidates for that party's 1984 
Orioles. He was greated by chants of voting pace did not keep up with the presidential nomination. "Bernie, Bernie, Bernie" by the early 85 percent turnout rate. Reporters from across the nation 
crowd at Comiskey Park, and when a The central business disrict was and several foreign countries, 
plane flew by tugging a pro­relatively calm throughout thhe dayincluding France, Great Britain, 
Washington banner, it was roundly as shoppers and businessmen con­Japan, and Italy, covered the elec­
booed. tinued their routine. The onlytion. 
evidence of the election was the 

An estimated 52.5 million was Washington, after voting at the great number of campaign buttons spent during the general election. 
Del Trado Hotel on the South Side of supporting either candidate. Neither candidate has yet to disclose 
the city, maintained a low profile Included in the balloting at the his final financial expenditures. Most 
throughout the day and made city's 2,914 precincts were runoffs of the money spent by each of the 
limited campaign pitches in the for the offices ofclerk, treasurer, and candidates funded television 
South Side and downtown areas. 14 of the city's alderman. 
advertising. The Washington campaign head· 
During the election, the issue of quarters, located in the Monadnock With Washington's election, 
race was both implicitly and ex­Building in downtown Chicago, was Chicago becomes the 224th city in 
plicitly debated by both ofthe major abuzz with activity throughout yes­the U.S. with a black mayor. Other 
candidates. terday morning and afternoon. "I've major cities which now have black Edward "Fast Eddie" Vrdolyak, never seen stuff like this before," mayors include Gary, Detroit, Los chairman of the Cook County said one Washington campaign Angeles, Atlanta, and New Orleans. 
Democratic Party, in a talk at Notre Dame last Thursday, characterized the campaign as a conflict of racial issues. "What makes this race dif· ferent is race ... Ifpeople say there's no prejudice in Chicago, they're not 
SUMMER DISCOUNT GROUP 

telling the truth." 



RATES B &B Storage Self· Service

Catholic prof talks 
1f2 mile south of Niles K·Mart about Chesterton r 3001 u.s. 31. east side of highway. 
S.ttlllllllllllllllltiiiHIIHIIHHIIMHitiiHIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIII...MHIIIHHHIIII• 
By MIKE LEPRE 
Senior StaffReporter 
CHAUTAUQUA 

Father Stanley Jaki, a noted Catholic scholar and professor at Seton Hall University, delivered the first of four presentations on journalist and poet Gilbert Ches­

apple pr..ents 

terton last night in the Rare Book Room ofthe Memorial Librarv. 
GEORGE HARRISON 

Che'sterton, a convert to Roman Catholicism who 
and friends in died in 1936, exhibited a "flippancy toward science,". saidJaki,"because, in his own words, science 'has given 
THE CONCERT FOR 

us a vulgar familiarity with the earth.' " 
BANGLADESH

Jaki analyzed Chesterton's philosophy ofreligion and 
applr/10th ttnluty·l•• rtlro\f lHhnKelo1 8 

science, reading various excerpts from Chesterton's 
j O<HJ<IIOI ~und lrark htolablt On Aptlltltrord•J

literary works. In addition, he cited many ofthe critical 
responses to Chesterton's works, which have had a 
great influence on Catholic thought in England. 
The lecture series "Chesterton: A Seer of Science" 
will continue nightly through Friday, with each 
presentation scheduled for 8 p.m. in the Rare Book 
Thursday, April14 7, 9, and 11 
Room of the Memorial Library. 
Admission $1 Presented by ND Student Union 
~----........--~--------~-~-~.......-----~~~-~-~----~~-----~­
The Observer Wednesday, April13, 1983-page 4 
Senate debates appt. of arms official 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The long­"If we confirm Ambassador Adel­delayed Senate debate on nuclear man, he will take office with the arms control nominee Kenneth L. administration having taken strong Adelman began yesterday as GOP commitments," Percy said. 
leaders s~;rambled for support By rejecting the nomination, he among a small group of undecided said, the Senate would "undercut members. At best, they said, he these commitments and allow the could win confirmation by just one arms control agency to flounder." 
or two votes. "Those voting against will have a 

But "It's too close to call" because heavy burden of responsibility," several Republicans remain serious­Percy said. "I feel we have an able ly troubled about Adelman's nominee now, and we should con­qualifications, said Ted Stevens of firm him." Alaska, assistant leader of the GOP Sen. Claiborne Pell of Rhode Is­
majority. land, the top Democrat on the 

Adelman's name was called up on Committee, said, on the other hand, the Senate floor exactly three "Mr. Adelman has been given a fair months after his nomination by test and has failed that test. President Reagan to be director of "He gives no indication that he the Arms Control and Disarmament has the necessary burning commit­Agency. ment to achievement in arms con­
Sen. Charles H. Percy, R-111., chair­trol," Pell said. man of the Senate Foreign Relations Although a final vote is scheduled Committee, called on senators to for tomorrow the first test could "render judgment if the (arms con­come today
'Tbe Notre Dame String Quartet performs in Ruiz were conducted bylaura Klugherz, a faculty 
trol) process will be speeded up or Sen. Charles Mathias Jr., R-Md., an 
Crowley Hallyesterday. The members, Mara Buet­candidatefrom U.S.C. 
slowed down by voting for Mr. Adel­Adelman opponent, said there had 

tner, Theresa Kilgannon, louiseFallon andjavier 
man or against him." 
Anti-Americanism in Europe worries officials 
LONDON (AP)-In Britain, a missile protester waves the banner "U.S. Death Merchants Go Home." In West Germany, A,merican facilities are daubed with slogans and bombed. In Denmark, protests over El Salvador have cropped up in Fourth ofJuly celebrations. 
A resurgence of anti-Americanism in Europe, par-WEDNESDA Yl/l.a 
ticularly among the young, has U.S. officials worried that 
0 cus 
the trans-Atlantic links forged by World War II may be breaking. 

The Reagan administration is trying to recast those links through a program ofgentle political persuasion and increased cul­tural contacts designed to better Europe's understanding of America 
These links have been undermined, some critics say, by cutbacks in foreign language and foreign area studies on both sides of the Atlantic, a decline in standards for the U.S. diplomatic corps and the resulting inability to anticipate developments in foreign countries. 
"The realization has dawned that a new generation of political 
HELPWANTED-Student or students to take over an established New ljnrk Wimea earn pus 
route for fall term. 

Jobs duties include set 
up, selling and early­
morning delivery of the 

Newfnrk Wimes 
For full details, please call NEW YORK TIMES at 1-800-621-0159. 

A
Th•, .
P,•r omungArts Series 
SAINT MAR'f''S COLLEGE 
presents 

Kathleen Quinlan in residence April14 8:00pm Little Theatre Lecture & Demonstration April15 8:00pm The Dances of Isadora Duncan O'Laughlin Auditorium Tickets $4.00 general admission 
$2.00 students admission FREE for Saint Mary's students For information & reservations call284-4626 
leadership is emerging on both sides ofthe Atlantic that doesn't have 
the bonds that came out of a shared experience," Snow, cultural 
affairs officer at the U.S. Embassy in London. 
"Their parents were all united in the prosecution ofthe war effort, 
then the Marshall Plan and the reconstruction of Europe. But now, 
young people in Europe and the United States have different con­
cerns." 

Support for the United States, especially among young people, has declined in recent years, according to a recent Louis Harris survey done for the International Herald Tribune and the Atlantic In­stitute, a Paris-based research group. 
Asked what was most responsible for current international ten­sions, 64 percent of West Germans aged I 8 to 24 blamed the "U.S. military buildup." That compared to 41 percent among the middle­aged people questioned and 29 percent for those 65 or older. 
In France, 25 percent of the youth blamed the "U.S. buildup" compared to 13 percent of those 35 to 49. 
As U.S. ambassador to West Germany Arthur F. Burns put it in a 
Hamburg speech last month, "The tight net of shared values be­
tween our two peoples has been sagging, in part, beca .use we are 
now less intimately involved with each other." 
The focus of Burns' concern -and that of the administration he 
represents is the anti-nuclear movement attracting, 
demonstrators and opinion poll majorities against NATO's station-· 
ing ofnew U.S.-made nuclear weapons in Europe. 
Of German pacifists, Burns said: "I am appalled by the ignorance 
that so many of them exhibit about the history even of their own 
country, to say nothing about their ignorance of the United States." 
Ambassador to Ireland Peter Dailey expresses similar views. "I detect an undercurrent of distrust of U.S. policies among Europe's youth, and that really shocks me," he said in a recent interview. 
Dailey, a former California public relations executive, was com­missioned by Pres(dent Reagan in January to draft a blueprint for stating the U.S. defense case in Europe. But some observers have reservations about the Reagan plan. 
Former U.S. ambassad0r to Italy, Richard M. Gardner, writing recently in The New York Times Magazine, fears the administration seeks "a quick advertising fix for a current foreign policy 'crisis' and (has) no comprehensive long-term vision of'public diplomacy' as a vital element in American foreign policy." 
NEED FUNDS FOR YOUR CLUB NEXT YEAR? 
TRY THE STUDENT UNION mOVIE LOTTERY 

All organizations interested in sponsoring a movie in either semester nextyear should pick up an application at the Office of Student Activities. Applications must be returned by Friday, April 15 
been "some talk" of a motion to recommit the nomination to the Foreign Relations Committee. But the majority leadership believed it could turn back such a ploy. 
Sending the nomination back to committee would presumably end Adelman's chances, since the panel voted 9-8 against his confirmation on Feb. 24. The committee subse­quently agreed to send the nomina­tion to the floor with a recommendation that it be rejected. 
As to the final vote, the leadership was less confident. Stevens said fewer than I0 undecided senators held the balance. 
Adelman, 36, is deputy ll.S. ambas­sador to the United Nations. He was visiting undecided senators on Capitol Hill as the Senate debated. 
Despite the misgivings of ad­ministration supporters about the outcome, Mathias said, "I have al­ways given the president the edge on this thing. Some members, rightly or wrongly, like to give the presi­dent his choice on nominations." 
And Sen. David Durenberger, R­Minn., who had indicated earlier he was undecided, told a reporter, "I am normally inclined to support any president on his nominee unless I find him substantially deficient. I don't find Adelman substantially deficient. It is -only by comparison with others that some find him so." 

Administration sees higher .deficitsin '83 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Reagan administration issued a revised budget forecast yesterday that adds $4 billion to the record deficits previously projected for fis­cal 1983 and 1984. But it said the red ink in later years will be less than expected. 
The White House Office of Management and Budget said the deficit for the current fiscal year is now predicted at S21 0.2 billion, up 
52.5 billion from the last official es­timate made in January. The deficit for 1984 was put at S190.2 billion, up $1.4 billion. 
The budget office said a reduction in the deficits stemming from an im­proved forecast of economic ac­tivity in 1983 was more than offset by other factors, such as lower tax revenues from oil producers be­cause of a decline in petroleum prices and higher spending on Social Security and the jobs program recently enacted into law. 

The Observer Wednesday, Aprill3, 1983-page 5 
Carlin is chosen as HPC chairman 
By CAROL CAMP 
Copy Editor 
Former Carroll Hall president Mike Carlin was chosen to succeed Mike McAuliffe as Hall Presidents Council chairman at last night's HPC dinner at the Marriott Hotel. 
Carlin vowed to "work really hard with the new presidents," and he praised McAuliffe's leadership by at­tributing "much of the respect the HPC has gained this year to his hard work." Carlin becomes the second Carroll Hall president in as many years to serve as HPC chairman. 
McAuliffe was presented a plaque by the outgoing council members, and he offered an evaluation of his tenure as chairman. Citing the initia­tion of innovative activities such as last year's An Tostal Pig Roast, Chance to Dance, and the upcoming L'il Sibs weekend, McAuliffe comple­mented his colleagues for "managing to make these events work, although they had no prece­dent." 
Additionally, he lauded council members for their ability "to raise more money for charity than any other HPC in recent memory." Charity projects which were under: taken by the HPC included the an­nual United Way Drive, Hospice, and the memorial fund which was es­tablished for fotmer Howard Hall resident Tom Perruccio, who died ofleukemia earlier this year. 
Other accomplishments cited by McAuliffe include improved rela­tions between HPC and the ad­ministration. As McAuliffe adroitly commented, "Talking Dean Roemer out of issuing a directive is un­usual ...persuading Father Van to change his mind is unheard of." 
McAuliffe, however, said that the HPC's most noteworthy success has been increasing alcohol awareness through the adoption of an alcohol policy and working in conjunction with Psychological Services director Peggy Cronin. 

In order to avoid the crowds, some Bookstore Bas­ketball fans took to the roof ofthe bookstore to 
'The British are coming' 
British tend to win Oscars 
LOS ANGELES ( AP -"The British 
are coming," warned producer 
David Puttnam when his "Chariots 
of Fire" won last year's Oscar for 
best picture. He was right, and they 
won again this year. 
The Motion Picture Academy on 
Monday night bestowed eight Os­
cars on the British-made epic 
"Gandhi," including a pair to 
Richard Attenborough for directing 
and producing the best motion 
picture of 1982. Ben Kingsley, who 
portrayed India's spiritual leader, 
won as best actor, and John Briley 
for his original screenplay. 
Ofcourse Americans won Oscars, 
too: meryl Streep, best actress for "Sophie's Choice," and supporting players Louis Gossett Jr. for "An Of­ficer and a Gentleman" and Jessica Lange for "Tootsie." 
The 55th awards proved a 
decided hit with television viewers. 
The overnight Nielsen rating in New 
York was 45.4 and the share was 71 
Film stars to speak at preview 
By TONI RUTHERFORD 
StaffReporter 
Edward James Olmos, star of The Battle ofGregorio Cortez, will join his co-star, Tom Bower, tomorrow night for a preview showing of the film at 7 p.m. at Moreau Hall. 
The film, an Embassy Films 
production directed by Robert 
Young, is a factual account of the in­
justices that the language barrier has 
caused for a Mexican-American 
family living in Texas near the 
Mexico border. It has been 
previewed in Hollywood, Washing­
ton, D.C., Arizona, Texas, Colorado 
and Los Angeles, and will be shown free of charge to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. This showing was arranged by H. Frank Domin­guez, executive producer of the film, whose daughter, Dorene, is a student at Saint Mary's. 
The film will be followed by a small presentation by Olmos and Bower and a reception, which will offer the opportunity to speak with the actors. Seating is limited to 250 persons. Reservations may be made by contacting the McCandless Hall desk at Saint Mary's. 
The Educational Justice Commit­
tee, the Law Society and M.E.Ch.A. 
are sponsoring the event. 
percent of sets in use. 
A rating measures the percentage of all TV sets that are tuned to a show; a share measures the percent­age of sets in use that are tuned to a show. 
By contrast, the rating for the fourth chapter of"The Thorn Birds," second-highest rated miniseries af­ter "Roots," had a national rating of 
43.2 and a 62 share. 
Clutching his Oscar before repor­ters backstage at the Music Center, Kingsley admitted, "My knuckles are white around this gentleman. It is a' sublime act ofpossession." 
The English-Indian actor compli­mented the American film com­munity for its "act of friendship" in handing its highest prizes to the British. He added that his countrymen could reciprocate: "I hope it's a nudge against certain restrictive practices." He referred to British Equity limitations against American actors in England. 
Clutching the two Oscars that marked the culmination ofa 20-year dream, Attenborough said he ~as pleased not only by his illm's finan­cial success but because it conveys a lesson for the world. 

Miss Streep, six months pregnant with her second child, won her second Oscar. Backstage she held the statuette on her hip and said wearily, "The baby has been kicking all night long." In 1979, she was voted best supporting actress for "Kramer vs. Kramer." 
For the second year in a row, the Academy gave its highest prize to a film that was rejected by the Hol­lywood establishment. Twentieth Century Fox dropped its option on "Chariots of Fire," and it languished until Alan LaddJr. agreed to sponsor its U.S. release. 
Attenborough struggled for two decades to lure American financing for "Gandhi" and finally made it with English and Indian funds. Columbia Pictures later became the releasing company. 
Recent work by Tamera Mams etchings and 
Bruce Habicl1t sculpture 
Isis Gallery 
3rd floor West. Art Building gallery hours 10-12. 1 • 3 MTWF 
tt.D.S.U. 
Concert Commission 
is looking for 1r1ext year's 
Assistants 
Submit a one page application to the Student Union by Wecllnesday midnight. 

Mandatory: 
Pre • Law Meeting for Juniors 

Thurs.• fipril14 7:OOpm Library Auditorium Application information packets available 
Applications for 
ASSISTANT TREASURER STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting major 
Applications Due Friday, April15 4:00PM 



.... ------------­
!he Observer Wednesday, Aprill3, 1983-page 6 
.... ~ 

~--~---~------~--~~----~---~----~----------~ 

L_ 
President Reagan and his wife.Nancy (above) stand in front ofa mural ofthe "Holocaust" with Benjamin Meed, President of the American Gathering ofjewish Holocaust Survivors at the Capital Centre in Washington, D.C., Monday night. Reagan was the keynote speaker at the as­sembly. Meanwhile, people who attended the gathering get a look at a model (below) of two government buildings located in Washington that will become a permanent holocaust memorial and museum. For more about the 
gathering, see story at right. 
Associat~d Press 


Theology Announces 
-
1. A theology course in French. Theo 329 Teilhard de Chardin 10:10·11:00MWF 
iTHE DATING GAME 
I 
This course fulfills the second requirement 
1A chance not only to embarass yourself ~ 
in Theology. It gives French language majors 
1 but to get a real date as well. 1 
or students returning from Angers program 
opportunity to practice their French. 
1 call Ann at 3680 for detans ~-·~-·_-_-. 
,,. DAISY SALE! 1 "Say it with posies" 
· On sale in the dining halls at dinner tomorrow, Friday, and next week. 
GET TUCKED! Today is the last chance to have someone tucked in. Sign-ups at 
dinner in the dining halls. 

-~·­

2. Reminder: The University Theology requirement is fulfilled as follows: 
I 
~-~· 
3 credits: Introduction to Theology THEO 100 (Freshman Year) or THEO 200 3 credits: a course numbered 201 · 299 
,. 
400-level courses are open to qualified upper level students as long as there is space. 
We are glad to advise any student on choice of Theology course. Theology Dept. 327 O'Shaughnessy 
Concentration camp survivors remember 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The children of Jewish concentration camp survivors -a generation Adolf Hitler never intended to exist -pledged yesterday to keep alive the memories of genocide in a world that looked the other way. 
The second generation took over at the American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors, asserting a solemn duty to never let the world forget the attempt, four decades ago, to exterminate every Jew in Europe -a goal two-thirds fulfilled before allied armies liberated the occupants ofthe Nazi concentration camps. 
Ofa pre-HitlerJewish population of8.8 million, 5.9 million were killed. 
Nina Klein, founder of the Second Generation Committee, told the assemblage of10,000 survivors and children ofsurvivors that the lessons ofthe Holocaust are not all gruesome; some are uplifting. 
"As children of Holocaust survivors our-heritage has been one of pain and in some cases even trauma," she said. "However, one characteristic ofour heritage which should always be stressed is the soaring ofthe human spirit." 
In an interview on the floor of the Washington Convention Cen­ter, Genevieve Kaplanski, 29, a nurse practioner, told in more per­sonal terms what it meant to grow up in America, the child o .f a mother who had been in two concentration camps, Markstradt and Peterswaldau. 
As a girl, she said, she was jealous of friends who had aunts and uncles and cousins and grandparents -and would grow furious with those who complained offamilial obligations. 
"I would give anything to have a cousin," said Miss Kaplanski, of Fresh Meadows, N.Y. 
Her Polish-born parents met and married after the war. Her mot­her's family was gassed at Auschwitz. Her father's family was wiped out when the Warsaw Ghetto was burned to the ground. A third cousin on her father's side ofthe family was the only living relative. 
Miss Kaplanski said her parents intended to attend the survivors' meeting, but as the day approached, they grew apprehensive. I couldn't handle it." 
Her father relates his experiences in the war -he wa'i imprisoned by the Russians until Germany attacked the Soviet Union, when he was put into the Russian army. 
But she said she knows nothing about her mother's history "and I cannot bear it when she starts to talk about it. That's something I want to overcome. Whenever she starts talking about it, I get very upset-and I have to walk away." 
Miss Kaplanski said she is aware every day that she is a survivor's daughter. When she went to Israel as a tourist and visited Y'ad Vas­hem, the Holocaust memorial, she wondered if the mound ofbones she looked upon contained the remains ofher grandparents. 
In a speech prepared for the gathering but not delivered because of the press of time, Menachem Z. Rosensaft, chairman of the Inter­national Network ofChildren ofJewish Holocaust Survivors, said the children were set apart because their parents had been extraor­dinarily strong to have rebuilt their lives . 
• • . Washington 
continuedfrom page 1 
possible vote fraud. By midafter­noon the U.S. attorney's office reported receiving about 200 com­plaints, mostly minor. The Cook County state's attorney's office received more than 280 complaints, far fewer than in February. The elec­tions board reported about 600 complaints, fewer than halfthe num­ber received in the primary. 
Voters also chose a city clerk, treasurer and 14 of 50 aldermen in wards where there were runoffs. 

Despite the campaign's bitterness and their harsh words for one anoth­er, Washington and Epton-former colleagues in the Illinois Legislature -have promised to meet for break­fast Wednesday, in a show ofunity. 
The City Council will set an in­auguration date Wednesday. Traditionally, the new mayor has been sworn in to the powerful 560,000-a-year post within weeks of the general election. 
Washington, a two-term South Side congressman, was ahead in fmal polls. But Epton was gaining, partly on the strength of voter concern over his rival's income tax convic­tion, suspension from the legal profession and unpaid bills. 
But Washington's race was the bigge~t issue, turning what would have been a rubber stamp general election in traditionally Democratic Chicago into a horse race. 
Erton, a millionaire lawyer and 
former state legislator, ran un­
opposed in the GOP primary and got 
11,397 votes, compared to nearly 
1.2 million votes cast in the Democratic race. 
Many longstanding Democrats, 
including powerful ward bosses, 
defected to his candidacy. Many 
party regulars disliked Washington's 
vow to end the Democratic 
machine's patronage system 

while Epton promised not to reform 
-not abolish -the system. 

Washington, who lost a 1977 mayoral bid, was criticized for his primary election appeal to blacks, who make up 40 percent ofthe city's 3 million residents. He repeatedly told them "It's our turn." 

The Observer Wednesday, April13, 1983-page 7 
Soviets find U.S. arms proposal 'sinister' 
MOSCOW (AP) -The new U.S. Bykov said this "system" -the proposal for an MX missile system is MX paired with development ofstill a "rather sinister" step forward in an another missile -"is in excess of increasingly dangerous arms race, a what has been the framework of 
leading Soviet arms control strategic parity attained on both speciilist said yesterday. sides." But the specialist, Oleg Bykov, "The military-political connota­
acknowledged at the same time that tion of this system is rather sinister the Soviets are readying their own because it is stepping up analready new missile that would counter the destabilizing arms race," he said. 
U.S. deployment of the MX. The Soviet academic said the 
"Of course, it takes two to make "urgent necessity" now is that the an arms race. And the Soviet leader­United States and Soviet Union ship has put it in so many words: we "devise ways of stopping the arms will respond," said Bykov, acting race and then reducing ...strategic director of the Institute on the levels, rather than heading more and World Economy and International more to these things," meaning new Relations. weapons systems. 
Bykov was interviewed in his "It has reached the stage where 
17th-floor offices at the institute's adding more and more sophisticated headquarters in southern Moscow. weaponry on both sides leads only He stressed he was not speaking in to further saturation, rather than 
Members of the President's Commission on 
any official capacity. But his views achieving some stage where a kind 
Strategic Forces (MX Comission) bold a news
have generally reflected those ofthe of strategic breakthrough might be 
conference Monday after presenting President
Kremlin leadership. in sight. It's a stalemate." 
Reagan with their report on sites for the MX
On Monday, a special commission The Soviets, whose heavy, 
missile system. Former Secretary ofState Alexan­
recommended to President Reagan multiple-warhead, land-based that the United States build and missiles are mostly liquid-fueled, are deploy 100 MX missiles in existing known to have been testing a new Prevents accidental war Minuteman missile silos in the solid-fueled weapon. Missiles using American Midwest. solid propelants, such as the MX and 
The MX, which could be Minuteman, are generally regarded 
Weinberger urges better 'hot line' 
deployed in the mid-1980s, is a high­as more reliable. ly accurate and powerful weapon Bykov refused to discuss details of WASHINGTON (AP) The The proposals include upgrading Weinberger said he talked over aarrying up to 10 nuclear warheads. the new Soviet weapon. But he said Reagan administration proposed the existing teleprinter "hot line" the proposals last Thursday in a 
The commission also called for the two superpowers were in "kind yesterday the bolstering of "hot between U.S. and Soviet leaders to '.i meeting with Soviet ambassador development of a smaller, single­of a vtcwus circle ...Weapons line" communications with the high-speed system that could relay Anatoly Dobrynin. warhead missile for deployment in deployed on the American side of Soviet Union, includig a new link be­photos and charts, creat;on of Dobrynin was "noncomittal" and the 1990s. course will be matched on the tween military centers, as a means separate lines between ~ 'military promised to tram;ntit the proposals 
The MX report, which Reagan is Soviet side." for averting nuclear war through commands and also between em­to his government, Weinberger said. expected to endorse next week, The 57-year-old academic, who accident or miscalculation. bassies, and provisions for consulta­comes at a time when U.S.-Soviet spoke fluent English, was among "These are very simple things. tion over nuclear terrorist incidents. "The quickest, most effective way negotiations on limiting or reducing those who presented the Soviet They would benefit everybody," to do this would be to set up a small long-and medium-range missiles ap­view on the nuclear impasse at a said Defense Secretary Caspar Weinc The proposals were announced a negotiation" between the two na· pear deadlocked. news conference here last Friday. berger at a news conference. day before the House is scheduled to tions, Weinberger said. "I would 
vote on a resolution calling for a think an agreement of this kind freeze on nuclear weapons, a could be completed rapidly." 
measure strongly opposed by Presi­The United States has already dent Reagan. One worry of nuclear proposed the confidence-bu freeze advocates is the possibility of measures at the arms limitation talks accidental nuclear war. now ongoing in Geneva, but the 
Underground testing 
Soviets rule out arms talks 
The announcement, effectively Soviets wouldn't agree "to have WASHINGTON (AP) The procedures already exist for ments with the Soviets banned making formal ideas aired by Reagan these matters broken out" and 
Soviet Union yesterday ruled out "mutual consultations" on any atomic testing in the atmosphere, himself months ago, also comes as negotiated separately, Weinberger further talks on the Reagan ad­suspected violations. outer space and under water. the Senate nears a showdown vote said. ministration's bid to tighten verifica­The statement, telephoned to on Kenneth L. Adelman as the na-Weinberger noted that Reagan tion provisions in two unratified news agencies by Vladimir Mikoyan The treaties provide for what is . tion's arms control director. had called for such steps last fall . treaties limiting underground of the embassy's press office. known as "national technical But "No, there's no relation to any "The technology is here," Weinber­nuclear tests. "There is no need to recmmended that the United States means" of verification. Basically this other events involved," insisted ger said, and could be installed "in a hold negotiations on this subject," proceed with Senate ratification of means monitoring underground Weinberger. matter ofweeks." the Soviets said. the agreements reached in the· blasts through seismic and other 
In an unusual statement issued Nixon and Ford administrations. measurements and an exchange of 

through its embassy, the Kremlin data. accused the United States of trying The principal provisions of those 
Attention Freshmen! to undermine the accords by press­agreements restrict all underground Harold M. Agnew, a former ad­ing for the changes. tests -for either weapons or peace­viser to the Arms Control and Dis­
Sign ups for

Promising not to take actions ful purposes -to 150 kilotons or armament Agency, has said U.S. "inconsistent" with the 1974 and less. That is equivalent to 1 0 tmes experts have assessed some Soviet 1976 unratified treaties, the Soviets the power of the bomb the United tests at about 400 kilotons, well turned aside U.S. efforts to tighten States exploded on Hiroshima, above the 100 percent uncertainty 
@Jnp~nmnrt 1Jlittrary1J1tstiual
verification procedures by saying Japan, in World War II. Earlier agree· of current measurement methods. 
Watson to lecture tomorrow night 
Professor George Brinkley, of the Department of Government and International Studies, discusses "Foundations ofSoviet Policy" last night in the Hayes, Healy Auditorium. The lecture .began a series of events in conjuction with Ground Zero month. Cyn­thia Watson, a government doctoral candidate, will speak on "Nuclear Proliferation in the Third World" tomrrow at 7:30 in Hayes-Healy Center. In addition, a series of movies concerning nuclear arms -includ­ing Dr. Strangelove -will begin April 25. Jeff Har­rington's feature on the national observance of Ground Zero month will appear in tomorrow's Ob­
server. 
through April15 

Editorials 
Wednesday, April13, 1983-page 8 

Soviet diplomats have to steal 
NEW YORK CITY -Only a Socialist prime minister like Francois Mitterrand could have dared send half the Russian "diplomats" in 
.France home as espionage agents. If Ronald Reagan were to do it,he would be hounded by every commentator for his paranoid politics, and they would have called his sanity in ques­tion. 
Max Lerner 

The Max Lerner Column 
Mitterrand's timing doubtless owes some­thing to the fact that the Soviet spy story, with its nationalist appeal. relieves him of some of the media heat that goes with his economic plight. 
Yet the facts and meaning ofthe Soviet tech­nology espionage are plain enough. Why have Russian's accredited "diplomats" in France grown in a decade from 200 to 700, and why are a third of the 700 known to the intel­ligence communities as KGB agents? 
The answer is, of course, that the core of Soviet foreign and defense policy has become the KGB. It is because, in the minds of the Politburo leaders, the prime urgency of the Soviet Union is more and more sophisticated weapons, which mean a high technology that the Soviet Union doesn't possess. 
It can't be bought, borrowed or begged. So it has to be stolen. This has been true ever since Stalin's agents stole the secrets of the atomic bomb to start with. It has continued to be true. What is new is the widening gap be· tween a runaway Western technology and a laggard Soviet parallel. Hence the new ur­gency for cheating, stealing and espionage by Soviet agents in every Western capital. 
So now we know why the Politburo chose Yuri Andropov as head of the party and government. The choice of a man whose central career experience was in the KGB has an exquisite logic to it. The Greeks, in a spirit offun, made Hermes -the god ofstealing ­one of their favorite gods. The Russians now have their own Hermes, in dead earnest. 
The great revolution of our time is in in­formation and computer technology. The Russians have proved heavy-handed at it. Of the economic powers, they are at the other end ofthe spectrum from japan and America. Whatjapan and America do, the Russians­weighted down by an inept and corrupt bureaucracy -simply can't. So they set their diplomats to steal, from Paris and Bonn to 
Tokyo, from New York and Washington to Mexico City. 
Pity the poor Soviet diplomats and their wives·who find themselves expelled from the Paris that had become their shopping and luxury Eden. It is the price they pay for their government's entrapment in an impossible bind. 
The Soviet empire today is bleeding inter­nally in its satellites like Poland, and the effort to add new satellites in Afghanistan and else­where can't stop the bleeding, which at core is economic and coercive. Yet Russia's real Viet· nam is not Afghanistan: It is its own atrophied technology -its brain. The Soviet system is rotting from the top. 
The liberal moral philosophers of the West have been putting out treatises on equality, justice, lying, deception, secrecy. They scarcely mention the Soviet system in passing. It is as if they were living morally in a vacuum universe untouched by the moral storms in the world around them. 
This is not to say that we must end our talks with the Russians. The missile negotiations must go on -and in time succeed. But while we are talking we should know that Andropov's KGB diplomats everywhere are stealing. 


P. 0. BoxQ  
Cavanaugh's act of love DearEditor: A couple of weeks before spring break, I received a phone call from an old friend and cast member with whom I hadn't worked 'since freshman year. It was obvious that he was trying to make whatever he had to say easier for me to take. The "bitter pill" was a request to fill in for another person in the play he was directing, Harvey. I said yes without a moment's hesitation, not really knowing what I was getting myself into. During the Harvey's production week, I began to sense what that little phone call meant to the men of Cavanaugh Hall. Producer Bob Velcich and his crew con­structed a set on an imaginary budget, a set which rivaled some ofthe budgeted sets that I have seen in other productions at Notre Dame. Velcich shuttled director Norman Plate and the female cast members to as­sorted stores to complete costume require­ments ( 1940s party dresses), including the Salvation Army. The cast, crews, and resi­dents of Cavanaugh temporarily donated books, bookshelves, men's suits, and doors so that the show could go on. Contacts became important on the day of dress rehearsal; who knew someone at The Observer or ND-SMC theatre department. On the day ofdress rehearsal everything was in place for a successful show, except the audience. On Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights, over 450 people attended Cavanaugh's production ofHarvey. Harvey appreciated the attention, as you might guess. The cast appreciated the laughter and applause ofthe audience. The people who appreciated the audience the most, though, were those who were most aware of the reason for the production, the men of Cavanaugh Hall. They were trying to raise $300 to go to the  Andy Sowder Fund. After Saturday's show, next phase ofyour lives! The Schierl family is when all the donations were counted, 5450 forever in your debt -our gratitude is had been collected. boundless -you shall always be in our Until last night, when the total was an­prayers. From our hearts, we say, "Thank nounced, I didn't really know what I had you and Peace always." been involved in. The cast, crews, and men of Cavanaugh Hall performed an act of love, with the assistance ofan eager and generous john, Anne, Tim, audience which was given the choice to give Fritz, Bill Schier/ and did so. Thank you. Stevens Point, WI TariBrown Thank you ND community DearEditor, This year our Holy Week began with an unexpected visit to the Notre Dame campus -possibly our last. Not until you are parents will you understand our emotions as we realized Tim might not be allowed to graduate. Our greatest struggle was with the seeming absence ofChristian compassion. We then experienced, as Dean Roemer said, "one of the finest things I've (we've) ever seen" -the tremendous support you gave our son. Your words of encourage­ment, letters to The Obsetver, and prayers gave us hope. Dave, Pete, Rect, Kevin, Dan­ny, Rich ­your empathyga,ve us courage to go on. You who filled Morrissey chapel to meet with Dean Roemer gave us faith that the compassion stressed in du Lac would prevail. Young men and women, let not a singular incident tarnish the institution in your eyes. Notre Dame has long been, and always will be, a fine umversity. However, we now know the "Notre Dame family" is the dedica­tion ofyou students to the Christian way and the commitment to come forth at the risk of your own reputation. Surely you will make our world a better place as you enter the .,.,.  Editor'sNote: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the editorial page. Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone num­ber and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproduc­tions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not accept­able. All letters are subject to editing.  

-·~ 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
• 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by tbe students of the Uni~ 
i-versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect ·· the policies of the administration of eitlter institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict theviews oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, ,and the free expression ofvarying opinions on_<;ampu~, throughletters, is encouraged. t 
(219)239-5303 
Editorial Board 

Edttor-in-Cbief............................David Dziedzic SaintMary's Editor...............Anne Monastyrski Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe SportsEditor .............................Michael Riccardi ExecutiveEditor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton NewsEditor..............................Bob Vonderheide Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh Photo Edttor.......................................Scoti Bower 
Department Managers 

Business Manager ........... : ..-....... Daniel O'Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 

Getting lucky 
Cfi.....S~_E
_______________~W=e=dn=e=s---d_ay_,_A_p_n_·I_l_3_,1_9_8_3
__p_a....:..g_e_9 

, -I ,r'· > " 'r • _ .• • _ > -' yi:_, • •
0 
-
0 


AmnturedTHRILLER 

I
n 1979, Michaeljackson'sOffthe Wall, spearheaded by four top ten singles(two ofthem No.1 s )sold seven million copies and firm­ly established him as one ofthe leading male artists in rock and soul. Offthe Wall, however, was only the beginningfor Jackson; his latest album, Thriller is the result ofthree years ofmaturation in which the artist has grown from boy to man. 
Part ofthe reason for Offthe Wall's success was due to its very 

danceable beat which was still popular at the tail end ofthe disco era. 
There was nothing at all challengingabout the song's lyrics but then 
no one really expected any deep meaning from a disco album. jack­
son's come along way sinceOffThe Wall; nobody's callingThriller a 
disso alb»% 
Vic Sciulli 
record review 

jackson's more mature style is clean but not sterile, due in part to the production jobofQuincyjones. (Jones took bad girl Donna Sum­mer into newer territory o.n her last album.) Like any good producer, Jones succeeds in getting a tremendous performance from all the band's musicians. 
"WannaBe Startin' Somethin'" is one ofthe most catchy dance songs jackson has ever done. Paulinho da Costa on percussion gives the song a standard disco backbeat but that's where the mundane­ness ofthe album ends. A horn arrangement co-arranged byJackson andJerry Hey, accompanied by sax, flute and trumpets, fire the song beyond the limits ofthe ordinary. jackson also arranged the vocal and rhythm arrangements in most of the album's nine tracks. 
"WannaBe Startin' Somethin'" is the first song on the album concerning the mysterious Billie Jean. jackson's dynamic vocals scream frustation and anger at the people who have attacked him through their gossip and lies. 

"The Girl is Mine," jackson's duet with Paul McCartney is the al­bum's only disappointment. It's appearance on the album is some­what ofa mystery -it does not fit in with any of the other tracks. (The song was the first to be released from the album; it became a huge AM radio success.) The song's well arranged but sappy lyrics consist ofdialogue between Me Cartney and jackson. 
We see a bit ofthe bizarreside ofJackson in the album's title track, which is about scary things and other things that go bump in the night. The song makes effective use ofspecial effects like howling wolves, slamming and creakingdoors and a rap by the masterofhor­ror himself, Vincent Price, to lend the song its sound. Jackson probably had a good time recording the song. 
It's "Beat It", however, featuring a guitar solo by rock guitarist ex­
traordinaire Eddie Van Halen that isJackson's biggest adventure. Van 
Halen's guitar solo and some interestingsynthesizer programming 
are largely responsible for the song's great success on AOR radio sta­
tions. Jackson confronts his aggressors head on this time. 
You have to show them that 
you're really not scared 
You're playin' with your life, 
This ain't no truth or dare 
They'll kick you, then they 
beat you 
Then they'll tell you it's fair 
So beat it, but you wanna 
be bad. 

jackson's voice has come a long way since his early days with his brothers in theJackson Five. jackson has always had a high, boyish voice but he has shed this for a more aggressive sound on "Beat It." 
In "Billie Jean," jackson's anguish is rooted in his frustration overa paternity suit against him. He pleads his innocence throughout the song. 
Billie jean is not my lover 
She's just a girl who claims that 
I am the one, 
But the kid is not my son. 
Thriller showsJackson at the peak ofwriting, singing. arranging and composing in his career. The maturation that he has undergone since 1979 is remarkable. It should be interesting to see whatJack­son does the next time: Oltt. 

o you've succumbed to peer pressure, you'veSresponded to urgings in The Observer, and you've suffered three anxiety attacks, but now you're ready to take a gigantic leap in your college career -go out on a date. After defaming, degrading, and drooling at mem­bers of the opposite sex you have decided to take the plunge into social intercourse. 
But wait, unlike a Ginsu ad on T.V. there isn't any more. Like a reliefbatter for the Chicago Cubs, you've, horror of horrors! struck out. "What went wrong?" you ask your friends with incredulity over cheap beers or popcorn. You tried all the so-called failsafe methods, you went up to the "chick" ofyour choice at that party and let loose with a beautiful belch to prove your man­hood, or you put on your best pair of matching purple 
Ryan VerBerkmoes 
confused and verbose 
stretch sweats and jogged past a guys' dorm to prove your feminine athletic skills and ability to sweat. Sadly, these oft-used methods are not effective. After four years, you could even end up apathetic, or worse, jaded with regards to other sex. 
Fortunately, you needn't despair. There are a few techniques you can use that will propel you to the front of the social scene. Listed below are a few tips for both sexes, first the men (or boys). 
Select a partner and casually ask her to join you for dinner at the dining halL T this is not only cheap, but you won't appear to be coming on too strong. The first rule to remember about dining hall dating is to not eat where you normally do. Otherwise, just as you are staring into your honeybunch's eyes and asking ofher major, a playful roommate will shower you with peas. This can really break the mood. Avoid commenting on your date's food. Comments like "do you know how many calories are in that triple dip sundae?" or "that's your fourth helping of noodles?!?" are inappropriate and borish. On the other hand, should that be what your date uses to eat her puddingwith, it may be best to feign stomach spasms and flee the table. 
The Engineering Auditorium. First ofall, movie selec­tion is key. Horror movies are always effective. Right at the key moment, you grab your date's hand. Ifshe resists, just say that you had similar nightmares as a child and that your mother always was there to help. This will not only make her feel useful, but will give you the appearence ofone oftl1ose "vulnerable, caring men" popularized by Alan Aida and Phil Donohue. How far you carry the "comforting" ploy is up to you. 
The bars. These time-worn mating grounds can still yield pleasure to the discriminating. Remember most of the females wouldn't mind meeting "the right" boy. An exception to this are those in the company of muscular men who grunt. Despite the underlying currents of desire, the manifestation ofsuch emotions is often bungled due to ineffectual tactics. How can you meet the girl ofyour dreams at a video game? Fewfemales are drawn to blank backs, no matter how good your finger dexterity is. Also, such manuevers as chugging thirteen Blatzes, breaking Heineken bottles on your head, or throwing up in the restroom, are far less attractive to others then they are to you in your drunken daze. In­stead, pick your target, and try some unusual opening line. Pick something that will stand out over the overly loud music. "Have you ever been friendly with sheep?" is a good example. 
Now that it is the '80s, women can, and should ifthey hope to succeed in this repressed male-dominated school, be aggn:ssive. Here are some suggestions. 
Many lovely relationships have sprouted at the salad bars. When you see the boyofyour dreams digging into the lettuce bowl, saunter up to him and comment "Don't you just hate the way they dice the celery, I love to nibble on the stalks." You will immediately set your­self apart from others who bemoan the lack oflow-cal dressing or chunky peanut butter. 
Sad as it may seem, the library is probably the top so­cial center. Rather then bemoan this aberration, use it to your advantage, single out your prospect and casual­ly inquire as to their study activities. Shift the conversa­tion to what a miserable place to study the library is. Since most people scope, sleep, and socialize, you are bound to get an agreement. Now is your chance to sug­gest a more quit:t and accomodating local to bone up on work. Unless your roommates are watching Tom Sel­leck, you can enjoy an evening ofintellectual stimula­tion. 
Many of these ideas can be modified to apply to both 
sexes. The following is an example. 
Now that the weather is thawing, you can put a trip 
around the lake~s on the evening's itinerary. But, just 
wandering around the lakes and debating whether to 
hold your companion's hand is old hat. To be truly ef­
fective calls for creativity. First ofall, avoid Saint Joe's 
Lake. Not only is it heavily travelled, but many ofthe 
seminarians in Moreau have telescopes. Instead, take 
the less travelled backroads around Saint Mary's Lake. 
Imagine the look ofsurprise and pleasure on your date's 
face, when he or she discovers that near the pastoral set­
ting,ofthe Fatima Retreat House, you have stashed a 
blanket and a bottle ofwine. As you nestle back, you can 
stare up to the heavens and chat about black holes, 
super novas, and the ever popular shooting stars. 
The opportunities for dating are endless. All you need 
is courage and creativity. Remember though, if your 
courage comes from a bottle, do so in moderation, you 
want to remember the other person's name the next 
day. 

M
ax Dugan Returns is an unwit­tingly disturbing movie. The film, written by Neil Simon, uncon­sciously praises materialism as the soulofAmerican culture as no other film has done since George Romero's Dawn ofthe Dead. Yet, this film does not even have zombies portrayingthe extreme. Instead, it is 
Dennis Chalifour 
movie review 

filled with those huggable Neil Simon people who love nice stuff The most troubling thing about this comedy is that despite a slow start (which depicts the family before they start getting all the stuff­poverty bores), the film actually works in a lightly entertaining way. 
Simon here has woven a story of monetary salvation. A widowed high school teacher (Marsha Mason) and her son (Mathew Broderick) find themselves at the end of their rope having just become the victims ofa car theft. A cute police lieutenant (Donald Sutherland) offers all the help he can, including an invitation to dinner. 
Surprise, Simon has no desire to develope the love interest as a way out. An alternate escape route from poverty is chosen: 5600,000.00. This little plot enhancer is brought on the scene by Max Dugan Oason Robards), Mason's long lost father who had abandoned her many years ago. Here's the twist: the money's stolen, Daddy's dying in six months, and Mason hates her father. Now the real story begins. To win his family's favor, Dugan begins to buy a whok lot ofstuff. 
The situations which arise from the purchasing ofall these prizes provide about 98/ ofall the humor in the film. Grandson ogles the stuff, daughter chastises Grandpa, and Grandpa buys more stuff. It seems like this particular route to guffaws would tend to insult an audience but everyone in the theatre with me shared my "Price is Right" delight in seeing all sorts ofexpensive prizes paraded before us. One particular 
episode, in which a battingcoach for 
the White Sox instructs Broderick 
on the philosophy ofhitting, strikes 
a definite chord in the American 
psyche. 
Perhaps what makesMax Dugan Returns besides Neil Simon's seemingly chance stumbling upon the materialistic soul ofAmerican culture, is the fine acting which also seems to come from left field. Jason Robards is brilliant in an otherwise throw away Santa Claus role. It is his generous and loving intentions which take the baseness out ofob­jects given to the family. On the other hand, Matthew Broderick, as 

the grandson, does a fine job taking 
all the fmery into his system without 
becoming a hedonist. Marsha Mason 
does an adequate job bringing off 
the change ofheart that seems to oc­
cur in every motion picture in 
which she has starred. Donald Sut­
herland amiably escapes the 
straight-jacket ofhis role and sneaks 
in a nice fully-dimensional perfor­
mance. 
Perhaps the biggest weakness in the film is Neil Simon's insipidly clever Neil Simon dialogue. There is no one in this film who isn't just as clever as Doc Simon himself and the witty exchanges begin to wear thin after about thirty minutes. Even more annoying is Simon's insistance to drop names throughout the mo­tion picture. Characters just refuse to stop bantering about their favorite English writers and philosophers: "I like Thackery. He makes you think." Ouch. 
Overall, I don't know ifl can give Max Dugan an eager recommenda­tion, but for those who care for the sort ofcomic situations Neil Simon churns out, this film is at the very least, interesting. 
Simon's monetcuy RETURNS 

~~(),-tS={=~=,..==i=e~S========~====================w==ed=n=e=sd=~='=Ap=r=il=I3='=I9=8=3===pa=g=e=to
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The NVA Open Handballladder will be forming soon. Anyone interested in participating should contact joel Haling at 1794 today. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will have a meeting to discuss the Christian race: the goal, the inner strength, and the glory, tonight in the St. Ed's chapel at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The Stepan Center recreation program officially ended yesterday. Stepan is now closed for volleyball and basketball for the rest of the semester. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Clubwill 
present Bob and Karen Gajda Sunday in the Center for Social Con­cerns. Bob was the 1965 Mr. USA, the 1966 Mr. America, and 1967 Mr. Universe, and served as the strength coach for the 1980 U.S. Olympic volleyball team. His wife Karen is a two-time national powerlifting champion and a one-time world champion. Admission is free for all Weightlifting Club members and 52 for non-members. Any questions call Matt Kelleher at 1 581. -The Observer 
JackMoran,sophomore second baseman for Notre Dame, has been named Player ofthe Week for last week by the Midwestern City Conference. He batted .524 ( 11-for-21) with four RBI's and eight runs scored as the Irish won five of six games. Moran's torrid pace raised his season average to .351, tops on the squad. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team defeated Ball 
State on the Saint Mary's courts yesterday, 6-3. Debbie Laberie, Maureen Fitzgerald, Pam Huber, Heather Temofeew, Allison Pellar, and the doubles team ofLaberie and Fitzgerald were winners for the Belles. -The Observer 
Team #289 vs. Team #176? 
Bookstore Basketball is a tradition, and it's a good 
tradition. Picking crude, lewd, and unprintable names 
for the teams is also a tradition, and a senseless one. 
Twelve years ago, Bookstore was started as a good idea offun. What it did for students then is what it does 
today. Athletic people who enjoy shooting hoops get a chance to play against other athletic people who enjoy shooting hoops. Frustrated people who are convinced they should be playing for Digger get a chance to show others what they've got. And lots of people who just want to have some fun, get a few laughs, or let offsome steam get the chance to get away from their books and 
work for a while. 

Bookstore is also for the people who don't even play 
in the tournament. Hundreds of people daily encircle 
the Stepan, Lyons, and Bookstore courts to see what's 
going on at Bookstore. They go to see a friend down the 
hall, a roommate, a highly-seeded teain or the oc­
casional Gerry Faust orJohn Shumate who joins the fun 
on the courts. 

And it is fun on the courts -good fun. Sure, there are 
fights and disagreements once in a while, the large foot­
ball player who pummels the average undergrad or the 
"animal" female who claws her way to the basket. There 
is always someone who takes the game as seriously as 
life or death. But there's also always the good-natured 
laughs involved, the matching T-shirts, costumes, and, 
this year, the blue limousine. 

The Observer has been a part of the Bookstore hype. The paper sends reporters to the different courts to watch a few games, keep their ears open for any scoops, and watch for any upsets or darkhorses. Every lunchtime, people can read about the winners, the loses, and people they know. 
There is another purpose ofThe Observer. The paper lists the pairings of the tournament and the scheduled courts and times. Team members and their fans can find out where they have to be and when to catch the action. 
But in recent years, The Observer has run into dif­ficulty doing its job. Teams have decided that to add to the fun, they will give themselves "funny" names. Their 
Jane Healey 
Assistant Sports Editor 

are some pretty crass and gross titles. If I 

were permitted to print some examples, I would. 

The administration has forbidden The Observer from 
printing any of these "funny" names -and rightly so. 
Instead, abbreviated forms are substituted for the 
original title. This year, some names were beyond 
salvaging and numbers had to be used to refer to over 
100 different teams. 
The numbers are unbelieveable. There are 512 teams registered for bookstore. Over halfofthose teams regis­tered under names that had to be adjusted. One team was even asked to withdraw rather than face trouble. 
This is ludicrous! Why do people persist in naming their teams in this way? The only peolple who ever know the real name are the team members and their friends. Readers of The Observer, the majority of the university, can only refer to the team as Team # 128 or as Show Me ... 

If people want to be to get a laugh, Jet them be sen­sible. There are funny names that don't have to be censored, like Christo and the Wrap-ups. Why can't more people be witty without being unprintable? 
Year after year, hundreds of people participate in 
Bookstore. Year after year teams use lewd, crude 
names. And year after year, those names have to be 
censored and can't be used. 

I'm not being moral, just practical. Why doesn't the Bookstore Committee just stop accepting the crude names? Or better yet, why don't they just ban the names all together and just list the teams by numbers only? It would be simple, efficient and printable. We'd start a 
new tradition. The basketball action is good fun all by itself. The crude names aren't needed. 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, class1fieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p_m. the busmess day pnor to insertion. All class1fieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typing All KINDS 277-8534 after 6pm 
TYPING, Jackie Boggs, 684-8793. 
Typmg, my home. Experienced m all phases of college typing. 277·3085. 
EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL YEAR FLEXIBLE HOURS MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS ON CAMPUS. BONUS BASED ON RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS WELL. 800-526-0883 
TYPING: $.75/page. Fast & accurate. Call Dan, 282-1680. 
LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS; Camp out this weekend, April 16-17. Come Sat. btwn. 9-9:30 Return Sunday by 3:00. Any questions? Call Eileen 2986 or Mary 8067 See you there at CAMP OUT for a GREAT TIME!!! 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: A Basketball at Stepan. To claim 
call8629. 
$50 REWARD!II Daniel Hechler black 1acket w1th red inside. Lost in South Dimng Hall before Easter. Please call 277-2222. NO QUESTIONS. 
ost-Treasury cash1er's check (ROTC). 
:ound, please return to me so that I can get the new one before next year. (It's been ccancelled). Please call8332. 
Found:Gold mens wrist watch in Steppan Call1414 
I :'JST-a gold cylindrical DIGITAL WATCH on Wed. 4-6-83. REWARD! If fourid, please call Anne at 2968 
LOST: One Pair of Bronze/Brown metal frlmed GLASSES. Lost in the vicmdy of STANFORD lobby after the Mr. Stanford Contest on Friday April 8. They have a h1gh sentimental value be1ng that without them I cannot see!! If found please call or return them to -J1m at 8708-07. 329-30 Stanford. (REWARD) 
LOST: IN Sen1or Bar 1981 Satuday night (4/9/83) a lightweight, navy blue jacket w1th NOTRE DAME BAND in yellow on the back and NO BAND OF THE FIGHT­'NG IRISH un front. If found (You'll know whether 1t belongs to you, or not) call JACK at 8876 or 8872. 
RAMON LACSON • YOUR I.D. IS AT THE OBSERVER 
lost:navy blue athletic bag w/ books,clothes,checkbook. Find any of above items w/ Frisino 1d call Mike,287­4046. 
LOST: TWO SETS OF ROOM KEYS-­ONE HAS THREEE KEYS ON A CADILLAC RING. THE OTHER HAS ROOM KEYS. PLEASE CALL 1749 IF YOU HAVE A CLUE. 
LOST; wallet lost Thurs. Me at campus view· southern section parkmg lot. No $$ was in 1t, but there IS a reward offered for its return. Call Mike 233-6068 if found please. 
LOST(?): Whoever removed my rear license plate,NH,'DOMER' from my '77 Dodge in D-2,please put it back or return it to 414 Keenan. My front plate was al­ready 'removed' so now I can't dnve my car. No questions asked. 
LOST: A white, After Six tuxedo jacket, freshly "borrowed" from the Palmer House ballroom Saturday evemng at the Semor Formal. Please return to 209 Alumni (1072) and no questions will be asked. 
lost: Gold braclet with charm. Fri. 4/8. Between Flanner and Grace. Sentimental value. smc 4340. Reward offered. 
LOST: Fnday 4/8/83 a white cotton spring blazer at a Flanner Happy Hr. found please call Kathleen SMC-5536 
FOR RENT 
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo all utilities Included June or Sept. Call 319­322-8735 Patty 
902 N. NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS, FULLY FURNISHED, 9 MONTH LEASE, GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON HEAT. $335/MONTH 684-0933 (lOCAL CALL) 
HOUSE-Furmshed, 1 m1. from campus. 4 bdrm. 2 bath 7 bdrm 2 bath. CALL 277· 
3461. 
FREE RENT . House sit for faculty mem­ber. summer. 319-322-8735 Pat. 
2 bedroom, Furnished apt to sublet 4 summer. Call284-4429. 
6 bedroom house 4rent completly furnised at 806 n st1o1us also secUity alarm system connected to police' for fur­ther information call1 362-7160 excellen1 condition price negotiable. 
SUBLET. 2 BEDROOM HALF OF CAR­RIAGE HOUSE. QUIET, NEAR PARK, I:'AUNORY GROCERY, NO BUSLINE. LOW RENT. AVAILABLE IN MAY CALL 287-2418. 

House to sub-let for summer. 3 or 4 bedrooms. Fully furnished. 2 Miles from ·campus, good neighborhood. Rent nego· tiable. Call239-7097, leave message for 
Randy. 
Summer School? Apts. for Rent near N.D. Ut11it1es Pd. Less Gas ph.2720261 
SUMMER RENT-3 BDRM HOUSE, NEXT TO CAMPUS, CHEAP. 
GRAD STUDENT SEEKS SAME FOR ROOMATE-HICKORY VILLAGE,STARTING JUNE/CALL FRED 239-5845. 
Wanted: Female Roomate for 83·84 at Campus View Apts Non-Smoker please. Call234-4250 after 1 t :00 p.m. 
Need nde to NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIV. th1s weekend. call JODI at 284· 5098 
RIDE NEEDED TO LANSING ON FRIDAY, APRIL 15. PLEASE CALL DAVID AT 1101 
. GOING TO THE WINDY CITY THIS WEEEKEND? NEED A RIDER? I NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS FRIDAY, COMING BACK SUNDAY. CALL TOM AT8737 
Need riders to Champaign,( U. of I. ). Leaving thursday, April 14 back on Sunday. Call Pat M. #3498 
t Motorcycle .Looking to buy a used, but cared for, touring b1ke 650 cc m1n Mike at 894 7 
WANTED: Alders needed to Iowa C1ty. Leaving Thurs. 4/14. return1ng Sun 4/17. Call Joe at 277-0885 
WANTED Band for hall party apr.21. Will neg. fees. If Interested call 284-5266 
Need R1de to Los Angeles area after ex· ams 10 May. Will share usual Must get to SISters graduation. call TIM 6853 
FOR SALE 
House lor sale: Univers1ty He1ghts, 3 bedrooms, $12,000 total. Immediate Terms. 319-3228735, Pat 
First class round trip ticket to anywhere United flies. You can fly hortM and to somewhere else (HawaiiI) over the summer for one cheap price. Call Leon 6740. 
RALPH LAUREN SHIRTS (POLO) FOR $18? AVAILABLE FOR MEN AND WOMEN. BY ORDER ONLY. CALL RAMON AT 8858 
TICKETS 
NEED LOTS-0-TICKETS for graduation· -please call John 287-4225 
EARN $5000 thiS summer pa1nting houses 1n your_ hometown. Contact Place~ ment Otf1ce for more info and appltcation at Room 213, Adm. Bldg. 
REMEMBER YEARBOOK SENIOR PORTRAITS! APRILS-22 9·30-1 AND 2-5:00 SITIINGS TRADITIONAL $5.00 CONTEMPORARY $8.15 YOU CAN STILL SIGN UP FOR YOUR PORTRAIT BY CALLING 239·5183NOWI PLEASE BRING EXACT CHANGE OR PAY BY CHECK. THANKS! 
THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM COMES TO NOTRE DAMEIII The Notre Dame Stu· dent Players present the mag1c of MAN OF LA MANCHA. com1ng to the stage of Wash1ngton Hall on April 21 ,22, and 23 at 8 p.m. T1ckets go on sale Wednesday, April 13. at the Student Umon t1cket office ST Pnces are $3.50 in advance and $4 at the door. There are only three n1ghts th1s year, so get your tickets early; remember what happened to Cabaret tickets' Don't miss the best show of the season-MAN OF LA MANCHAIll! 
The Ark Is comlngt 

Want to hear a bedt1me story? 
Do you want you dreams to come true? ' Sign up for the Tuck InsI For only 25 cents you can nave someone tucked away. S1gn ups are 1n the dining halls at dinner Monday through Wednes· day of th1s week. 
Get th~ Porn out of the librHnesl 
He's coming-to a theater near you: Tom Marshalek. Ugliest Man on Campus 
1983. 

MECHANICS Is full ol ABNORMAL Ioreea 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU, HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR KATHY, HAPPY BIRHTDAY TO YOU. LOVETJW ATIENTION SENIORS! Order your Semor Class personalized mug With your dorm rep or 1n Student Activ1t1es Office by Wed. 4/t 3. Only $8.00. 
LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS lll SIBS lll SIBS lll SIBS BUY YOUR LIL SIB A LIL SIBS WEEKEND T­SHIRT ON SALE AT BOTH DINING t:~LLS DURING DINNER HOURS UN­TIL FRIDAY COST IS $5.00 LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS 
Are you an aspiring Charles Schultz, Gar­
ry Trudeau, Jeb Cashin? Do you have un­
discovered humorous artistic talent just 
begging to grace the Today Page of The 
Observer? Would you like to be an Ob­
server strip (in the comic sense) car­
toonist? The Observer is looking tor 
campus comic strips tor next year. If you 
have the ra/enr, we have the paper. Sub­mit examples to: The "Yes, I want to be rich and famous" cartoon contest, Managing Editor, The Observer , P. 0. Box Q. Questions? Call Margaret, 239­5313. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO EASTERN PA. OR NORTHERN N.J. OR POINTS IN BE­TWEEN ALONG ROUTE 80. LEAVE LATE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, RETURN SUNDAY. CALL MIKE AT 272­8158. 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS: Do you have a pen and a sense of humor? THE OBSERVER is looking tor campus comic strips for next year. Send examples of your strip ideas to: Managing Editor, The Observer, P. 0. BoxQ. 
Do you want to see "The Boneheads" in The Observer every single day next year? If not, you better come up w1th a better com1c stnp. The Observer 1s looking for new campus com1c stnps for next year. Send examples of your talent to: The "Anything But the Boneheads" Com1c Stnp Contest, Managing Ed1tor. The Observer. P 0. BoxQ, The Observer Questions? Call Margaret, 239-5313. 
Beth Hackett for UMOCIIII 
LONG ISLAND CLUB ELECTIONS TONIGHT, APRIL 13TH!!! Come to La Fortune L;ttle Theatre: 7 PM for Baggage Truck and May bus d1scuss1ons 
MICHIGAN DEAD BREZHNEV DEAD DEAD PARROTS DEAD WESTERN MICHIGAN FULL STRENGTH 
COME PLAY QUARTERS AT ANTOS­TAL. MORE INFO COMING!!! 
MJC­
HAPPY 21st!!! T1me to ..excerc1se your nght"! Study hard for Calc. -good luck · then forget 11! See you tomorrow for a real celebration I 
E11een 
SENIOR CLASS MUGS Order by noon Wed 4/13 in Student Activities Office or w1th dorm rep. S $8.00 payable upon ordenng. 
Spanky, 
Happy 22nd! Oo I have to borrow a dol­
lar to get a birthday kiss th1s year? 
Love, 
Peach 
Oh, the humidity 
Hmmmmm 
MAGNUM p.1. Happy Birthday from the is­
lands and all of us, H1ggms R1ck, T.C., and the lads, Zeus and Apllo 
Let's here it for the MAUVE PALETIES..a whole TWO points! Way to use those BFAs g~rls. Shalom, N/A 
Nick· When are you g01g to grow hair? Jim Horndog· can't play Basketball! Gucci­When can I have your stereo?--~-~OK BYE 
LEE HARVEY, you are a MADMANI When you stole that cow, and your friend tned to make it with the cow--l want to party with YOU cowboyll You and me together FORGET IT!!fou know who y'all are Saturday nile, eng1neenng auditorium, 11:00 PM.. be there, Aloha' C.H.N. 
SODOM AND GOMORRAHt Party Saturday Night Live Band (Nobisl) 1406 South Bend Avenue Be there ...everyone else will 
NOBIS I 
Nob1s. the band that knocked ·em dead at 
the Nazz Mus1c Competition, 1S back 1n 
action thiS Saturday n1ght at Sodom and 
Gomorran. Notre Dame's No. 1 party 
soot. Spec1al guest appearance by John 
Mosley and hiS rend1t1on of "Get Down On it.· Betner·>l 
M.S. 
Thanks. No offense taken. It is ntce to 
know that >ports pttople can show some 
sensltl'•lty. 
S.H 
P S I know sports people need to have 
the1r fun. afteraH, that IS all they are-fun 
and ga:,-es 
JLBKSALM--wnosa squank 1S it th1s weekend? K 
Drew 1or Mr Campus 
The women of SMC/ND unote 
LK MBBDD 
JBCAMM 
MBMLSPR 
PBKRAC 
JWBMLC 
TRBWJM 

The Observer -Wednesday, April13, 1983-page 11 
Women's Bookstore marathon 
'Supply,' 'Wonders' never cease 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Yesterday was scheduled to be the last day of the first round in the Women's Bookstore tournament, but there were some fears that the round might run into today. The reason for the fears was the game be­tween Supply and the Clueless Won­ders. 
It seemed that the two teams were planning to play through the night as an hour had passed and the score was only 4-2. Realizing that there might be a crisis at hand, the Women's Bookstore officials decided to end the game at 10 points. It still took awhile, but Supp­ly eventually won the game, 1 0-8. 
The win proved that, if you keep 
SMC softball team splits with Grace 
ByJUDY McNAMARA 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's softball team 

opened defense of its Indiana state 
championship yesterday by splitting 
a doubleheader with Grace College 
at SMC. 
The Belles whipped Grace, which had just completed a 10-game swing in Florida, 16-4, in the first game, but dropped the second contest, 4-3. 
"I have to be very pleased that we 

did so well against a team with that 
much experience," said Belles 
coach Scott Beisel. "They came in 
here tanned and confident (from 
their trip), and we just went to work 
on'em." 
The Belles were the ones doing 

the tanning in the first contest, as 
Saint Mary's was able to blow out 
Grace with ease. The defending state 
champs made their NAIA debut by 
banging out 11 hits, led by sopho­
more catcher Elaine Suess, who 
went 3-for-4 with a double and two 
singles. 
Winning pitcher Julie Keigher gave up only six hits while walking only two. 
"It was encouraging to see Julie exhibit that type of control so early in the season," said Beisel. 
"ln the first game, we needed to 

be patient because their pitcher was 
throwing very poorly. Sometimes, 
being overly aggressive leads to 
mistakes." 
The frrst contest ended in the fifth 

inning because of the 10-run rule, 
which states that a team ahead by 10 
or more runs at the end ofany inning 
after the game is half completed is 
declared the winner. 
"I was happy to be able to play everybody in both games," said Beisel. "We like to try everybody at as many positions as possible early in the season." 
One of Beisel's rookies, frrst baseman Diane Yasinski, went 3-for­3 and stole three bases as Saint Mary's slapped out 11 hits in the second game. 
However, SMC's hits were not 

enough as the Belles were toppled, 
4-3. 
"Diane was just smokin' on the 

bases," said Beisel. "But, as a team, 
we just didn't put anything togeth­
er." 
Pitcher Mary Bayless took the loss, despite surrendering just four hits. Bayless struck out three, but walked six. 
"I liked the second game better, because we were under pressure," said Beisel. "I'd rather suffer a loss if the team learns." 
The team will be quizzed on what they learned at Bethel College tomorrow afternoon, and at home next Monday against Huntington College. 
shooting for over an hour, you should eventually be able to make 10 baskets. Supply, led by the bom­bing of Mary Walsh, took 78 shots before making the ten it need•:d. Walsh took almost half of the shots herself, making 5-of-35. She also received help from Annette Bryck who made 3-of-10. 

Bryck's performance did not live up to her name, but her teamm~tte Elizabeth Dooley seemed to want to trade with her, shooting a blazing 1­for-23 for the game. It was good enough, though, as Clueless Won­ders had problems of its own, making only 8-of-52 shots. 
Not all the games were played with such flair, however, as some im­pressive shooting performances led to some routs. Cheryl Sweeney led Twisters to a 21-1 win over Korbball Oder, hitting eight ofher nine shots. Saint Mary's varsity basketball player Elaine Suess contributed seven bas­kets. Korbball Oder, on the other 
hand, made only one ofits 19 shots. 
Another Saint Mary's player, Missy Van Ort, tossed in 10 shots to lead Pneumothorax to a 21-2 romp over Rats on the West Side, who made on­ly 2-of-28 from the field. Mary L;m­ger tied Van Ort for high-scoring honors for the day, making 10-of-16 to lead Just Fast Enough to a 21-13 win over Unknown Hoopsters. 

And then there was the case ofthe Pentajuggernauts who barely out­scored the low scorer of Annette Buford ... in a 21-3 loss. Three bas­kets in 30 shots was a major reason. Annette Buford . . . helped its own cause, hitting 21-of-36 shots. Cat­herine Leser and Maria Fiore led the winners with six baskets apiece. 
Now the action moves to the second round, which will be played on Saturday and Sunday. The four seeded teams will also be in action for the first time. The games on Saturday will be played at Stepan beginning at 1:30. 
Yesterday's Results SMC1 T.BA 21, Karen Carpenter and the Four Food Groups6 One Amiable Zany .. won by forfeit over Cheer· leaders Just Fast Enough 21, Unknown Hoopsters 13 Supply 10, Clueless Wonders 8 
SMC2 Kahlua and the Cremes won by forfeit over Typ1cal NDGtrls Wild Women 21, B. P. Swisllers 6 Twisters 21, Korbba\1 Oder 1 Goody Ten Shoes 15, Challenger and the Loose Tiles 
10 
SMC3 Annette Buford's Waste . . 21, Pentajuggernauts 3 Leather and Lace 15, Vowel·y Gtrls 4 Hoosier Hoopsters 15, You Dribble, We'll Score 5 Pneumothorax 21, Rats on the West Side 2 


THE NO STUDENT PLAYERS 
~~-~-~ 

The Observer Wednesday, April 13, 1983 -page 12 
I J 

Yesterday's Results 
Stepan1 We're Short But Slow over Gerry's Funny Bunntes by t3 Team #289overTeam #t76by t6 
F.O.A.K. over The Phyghtlng Photons by t8 Team #349 over You've Gatta Want It by 3 
Stepan2 The Marauders overTeam #277 by 17 Team #t78 over We'd Be Good It We Had John Pax~ son by 4 Team #65over Lou's Legacy It I by 10 Steve Stipanovtch, Dan Duff over Snowballm Hell by t4 
Stepan3 We Go 5 over One Last Try by 8 Team 392 over The Edttor and the Four Hubcaps by 16 FLOC .over Four Peons and the Most Popular Guy on Campus by 10 Hawkeye and the Chtcken Chokers over Ftve Guys Who AI McGUire Satd Had Whtte Man's Dtsease by 3 
Stepan 4 
P.O A. & I Love a Tender Offer over Hershel! Walker 
by 10 The Bnck Throwers over Stoneheads by 16 Team #8 over Flipper Tnpper and Three Guys wtth Joes 22-20 Armed & Dangerous .over Can the Magtc Rats Wtn One Before We Graduate by 11 
Stepan5 Ja's Men over Team #286 by 13 J0hn Murphy's Slime Tratn IV over Artel Sharon & Four Guys .by 17 Motown over No Way For You to Stop It (Rockets Ill) 23-21 Kintuckee over We Take A Keg For All . by t3 
Stepan& Team #361 over PengUins by 10 John Htnckley's School of Esteem over Team #63 by 
6 
ShowttmeoverTeam #t91 by5 Two Fourth Generation Domer Brothers over Five Screams from the Loft by 19 
Bookstore9 Spanky ..over Lick by 16 
J. Dead .over Staff by 8 People Who Dted over Netghborhood Cnsis Center 
byt5 Old Men On The Block over Esophagus Constrictors by 15 
BOOkstore 10 Three Tremendous Tan Masters over The Pranksters by t6 
D.A.M.M.M. over Your Sister ..by 2 The Mallone Kids over King Hooster's Shoottng Circus by t2 

~ 1l;t
· NO Clubs & Organizations ~ 
TIME TO RE-REGISTER FOR 83-84. NEW SYSTEM THIS YEAR! 
1. 
Registration-now thru April 22. 

2. 
Activity Report-Due by April 22. 


3. Applications for activity funds for 83-84-Due by April22. 
4. 
Footbal Concession Stand for Fall, 83-Due April 22. 

5. 
Movie Application for Fall, Spring 83-84-Due April15 


All forms available in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune. FUNDS FOR NEXT YEAR WILL BE AWARDED THIS SPRI~ 

As 256 teams remain. • • 
Vermtn over Dnbbltng Tabs II by 8 Lyons 11 Otts Day & The Kmghts over State of Confuston by 6 
W.H over Gtve Me the Ball by 2 Team #79 over The Kegs byu Forf81t Team #335over Cnsto & the Wrapups by 13 
Lyons 12 Team #423 over The Torts 24-22 Team #415 over 5'6" & U t nder & an Engineer by 12 Captam Ltps over The An Tostal Team by 6 
Ralphte by16  .over  Patnck Ewtng & Four Other Guys  
END OF ROUND 1  
Today's Games Stepan 1  

The Combtne Brothers & Assorted Mothers v. Asptrin 
Man .(4:00) NEBO's IV v. The 2-A Team (445) John Shoe & The Sneakers v. Barney Clark & The Heart-Breakers (5'30) 
Tequtla White Lightntng Ill v The Good Ole· Boys (615) 
Stepan 2 T.R.'s .v. Show Her Your Love .(4·00) Team #424 v. Slow. & Cant Jump (4 45) John Shoe & The Sneakers v. Barney Clark (5:30) 
We Can Beat You .v. 4 B1g Men .(6·t5) Stepan3 
Shots & A Keg v. Mangled Baby Ducks Bleed Agatn (4:00) Team #230 v. Team #34G (4:45) We Go 5 v. Immanuel . .(5:30) The Chtcago Cubs Of Bookstore v. J.B. & Co. (6:15) 
Stepan4 II You Can't Beat Us . .v. WBBS (4:00) Team #296 v. Team #263 (4:45) Hoopsters v. POA (5:30) 5 Alternatives To Dave Papson v. Thts Year We're Not Going To Lose . .(6:15) 
Stepan 5 Were We Supposed To Have A Clever Name v. 
Shondell ~(4:00) Navel Lmt v. Sex & The Four Offenders (4 45) Btp Btp Btp Btp Btp v Ja's Men (5:30) 4 Guys Who ~V~ 5 White Guys .(6:15) 
Stepan6 The Smoktn E's v. Ftnal512 Or Bust (4 00) Orange Crush v. Young Doctors In Heat (4~45) Make Believers v. 5 Guys Named Moe (5:30) Team #88 v Mercury Morns& The Snowmen (6:t5) 
Stepan? Run & Gun v. Sopke's ChOice (6:15) 
Stepan8 Double Decker Oreo Cookte v. Three Guys Who Hate The Other Two (6:30) 
Bookstore9 Mtddle Class Rastafartans v. ·G· Anatlcs (4·00) SWC v. We're Bad. But (4 45) Ralphte .v. Spanky (5.30) Even-Less Jacksonless 5 v. The Ftve Dwarts (6:15) 
Bookstore 1 0 Flynn's Fabulous Ftve v Slim Joe Gruber (4:00) US v. Artel Sharon . .(4 45) 3 Tremendous Tan Mastersd & Some Pretty Fatr lrtshmen v. Otts Day & The Kmghts (5:30) Last Chance Express v. The 5 Jerks Under 5'10' (6:t5) 
Lyons 11 Gerttol Express v. Team #201 (4:00) J Dead .v. Duk Koo Ktm . (4.45) Team #423 v. People Who Dted (5:30) KevinOutnn .v. Strapameyeron ...(6·t5) 
Lyons12 5 Good Reasons v. Four Basketban Players (400) DAMMM v. Beaucoup .(4:45) Mallone Ktds v. Team #79 (5:30) All The President's Men v. Passton & Romance & Commtes From Mars (6: t5) 
It's trivia time EDITOR'S NOTE -Baseball, more than any other sport, is a limitlesssourcefor trivia. The great namesofthepast ­Babe Ruth, Ty Cobb, Christy Mathewson, et at. -are answers to many trivia qustions, but the not-so-great names are a trivia buffs favorite. Afterall, ifit weren'tfor a popular trivia question, Harry Steinfeldt would bejust another name in the record book. (He was the third baseman in the famous Tinker-to-Evers-to-Chance infield.) So now The Observerpresents its first set ofqustions. The author, by the way, bas his own radio trivia show back in Montana. Answers will appear with the next set ofquestions. K.C. Culum  
Baseball Trivia  
I. Who was the only pitcher to hit a grand slam in a World Series game? 2. Who was the first person to ever be drafted into the major leagues? .3. Who was the youngest pitcher ever to pitch in the World Series? 4. Who was the youngest pitcher to pitch a shutout in a World Series game? 5. Who was the last pitcher to hurl a perfect game? 6. Whft had the lowest batting average to win a batting title in the modern era ofbaseball (since I900)? 7. When Carl Yastrzemski won the Triple Crown in I967, whom did he tie for the home run title? 8. How many times did Henry Aaron hit more than 50 home runs in a season? 9. Whom did Aaron replace when he was finally given his big chance? IO. In which World Series did every game end in a shutout? I I. Who had the highest batting average that was not good enough for the batting title? I2. Who was the losing pitcher when Don Larsen pitched his perfect game in the World Series? I3. Who was the last pitcher in the American League to hit a home run prior to the introduction of the designated hitter? I4. Who was the last National League player to win the Triple Crown? I5. Who was the last National Leaguer to lead the league in RBI's three consecutive seasons? I6. Who was the losing pitcher in the final game of the I975 World Series? I 7. What pitcher lost the sixth game ofthat particularSeries when he gave up a home run to Carlton Fisk? I8. In which World Series did the final game end in a home run? I9. Who was on third base when when Bobby Thomson hit his memorable home run? (Hint: He was considered a rookie phenom at the time, but proved to be a bust.) 20. Who was the only pitcher to throw a no-hitter on opening day? 2I. What player had the most hits in his rookie season? 22. What player had the most RBI's in his first season? 23. What team has hosted the major league opener the most times? 24. When jackie Robinson first donned the uniform of the Brooklyn Dodgers, what position did he play? 25. (For experts only) Who was the last switch-hitter to be named American League Most Valuable Player? Because quizzes will appear in future issues, we would like somefeedback concerning the difficulty ofthese questions. Ifthey are too easy, send us a letter and tell us so. Then u•e can ask some really nice things.  


California Stereo Liquidators, Federal No. 95-3531037, will dis­pose of, for a manufacturer's rep,.Psentative, their inventory surp~us of NEW stereo equipment. The items listed below will be sold on a first-come first-served basis while quantities last! 
HOLIDAY INN 515 Dixie Way, South Bend, IN 
Disposal 

5 ONLY  AM IFM Cassette Car Stereos, In-Dash  Value $159  Price $29ea.  
5 ONLY  AM FM S-Track Car Stereos, In-Dash  $139  $29ea.  
18 Graphic Equalizers ONLY for Car, High Wattage  $159  $39ea.  
20 ONLY  Cassette Car Stereos, Underdash  $ 75  $25ea.  
20 Graphic Equalizers ONLY for Car. High Wattag€'  $175  $59ea.  
30 ONLY  ,AM FM Cassette Car Stereos In-Dash  $189  $59ea.  
8 PR. Modular. 4-Way SpeakeONLY for Car (High-Power)  rs $179  $89pr.  

Friday, April 15, 1983 
5:00 pm to 10:00 pm 
Disposal 

Value  Price  
22 PR.  Triaxial Car Speakers  
ONLY  (Round) Giant Mags  $ 89  $39pr.  
20 PR.  Triaxial Car Speakers  
ONLY  (6x9)GiantMags  $119  $49pr.  

10 AM/FM Cassette-Built-in ONlY Equalizer & Auto Reverse $299 $J39ea. 
23 PR. 2-~ay Car Speakers, ONLY Dual Cone $ 49 $J9pr. 
10 AMIFM In-Dash Cas-ONLY settes for Small Cars $225 $89ea. 
22 AM/FM Cassettes for ONLY Car with Auto Reverse $225 $89ea. 
25 Graphic Equalizer ONLY for Car, High Wattage $215 $89ea. 
ALL BRAND NEW MERCHANDISE WITH FULL 2-YEAR WARRANTIES 
Buy one or all of the above quantities listed-The Public is Invited! VISA. MASTERCARD. CASH or PERSONAL CHECKS WELCOME 
ONEDAYONLY FRIDAY, APRIL 15 ONLY WHILE QUANTITIES LAST! 
The Observer Wednesday, April13, 1983-page 13 

The Obscrvt"t File 

Stacey Toran is expected to play a major role in an experienced defensive backfieldfor the 1983 Iris/! football squad. For more on the springprogress ofthe cornerbacks and safeties see story at left. 

t IUtiglyts 11ftlft<!Iastlt 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry & Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Haircut only $6 with coupoq

54533 Terrace Lane, South Bend(Across frOifl. 
(Hair must be washed day of cut)

Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 
272·0312 277-1691 
SAT. 8:30-5:30 
($6 otter only applies to male patrons) 

Toran, arown, Johnson 
Starters aid defensive backfield 
Johnson. 
from last year's lineup in the secon­dary, the only loss that ofall-America Dave Duerson at the free safety posi­tion. 
Spring Football 
terbacks from having games with large offensive outbursts. 
Toran, the 1983 defensive cap­tain, returns at strong cornerback and the hard-hitting Johnson will again occupy his strong safety slot. The only major change will involve the move of Bro~n to free safety 
from his weak cornerback position 
last year. 
The shift of Brown to free safety 
was made primarily to accom­
modate the talents and limitations of 
the fourth defensive back, who will 
assume Brown's old position. 
Brown feels that his change of 
position is a strategic move. "I think 
Coach Johnson has a lot of con­
fidence in me, moving me to Duer­
son's position," says Brown. ''I'll 
probably have a little trouble at first, 
but it's for the good ofthe team." 
It is worthy of note that Luther 
Bradley, who plays for the Chicago 
Blitz in the USFL, and Duerson, the 
1982 Most Valuable Player, both 
made the switch from cornerback to 
safety during their college careers. 
"A free safety needs to be an ag­
gressive and very smart football 
Lacrosse team defeats MSU in E. Lansing 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team won its biggest game ofthe year yes­terday, beating Michigan State, 7-6, in East Lansing, Mich. The win brings the Irish back into contention in the Midwest Lacrosse Association. 
A three-goal rally fn the fourth quarter was the difference as Notre Dame came from a 6-4 deficit to take its third MLA win in four attempts. 
Freshman Tom Grote and sopho­more Bob Trocchi were the heroes for the Irish. Grote led the squad with two goals, including the game­winner on a pass from Trocchi. Trocchi, seeing his first action since separating his shoulder a week and a half ago, scored once and assisted on three others. 
Notre Dame took an early 1-0 lead in the first quarter, but the Spartans came back and tied the score 3-3 at the end of the first half. Michigan State then scored three of the first four goals in the second half before the Irish rallied. 
The Irish now face MLA leader 
Ohio Wesleyan on Saturday on Car­
tier Field. A Notre Dame win would 
tie them for the MLA lead. 
-Mike Sullivan 

Bob Clasby, and Mike Gann the 
menacing  members  of the  'Gold  
Rush.'  
"The  three  of  us  communicate  

well with each Other," says Johnson. "We have been working together for two years now, and at any given time each one ofus knows what the other guy is doing." 
Even though Duerson graduated from the ND secondary, filling the position he vacated will not be a major task. 
The race for the fourth starting position for Jim Johnson is between senior John Mosley and sophomore Pat Ballage. 
Neither Mosley nor Ballagc played in Saturday's scrimmage. Mosley will be participating in spring drills in a non-contact capacity because of a shoulder in­jury. Ballage suffered a slight ankle sprain in practice last Friday. 
Mosley, who moved from wingback to cornerback last spring, saw limited action in 1982 as a sub­stitute. He did figure in the Irish defensive scheme, however, as he registered 24 tackles on the season. 
Ballagc played very sparingly last fall, but had played well enough before his injury to be in the running with Mosley. 
line, which registered 20 sacks last season. Credit for the sacks has to go, at least in part, to the defensive backs for executing superb coverage. 
The players think their ability to work well together on the field depends on communication. 
"Communication is an important part of being effective pass defen­ders," Brown says, "And I think that because we have been back there before, we will communicate well. 
"We wiii also be going for the ball like at the end of last year, and maybe trying to get an interception here and there." 
The experienced Irish secondary has the players and talent it needs to hold off the progress of the opposi­tion's offense. 
And no news from the opponent's offense would be good news. 
Erratum 

In a Bookstore photo in yester­day's paper, the teams that wre playing were incorrectly named. The correct teams are East Coast Irish and Five Pillars of Zen. The Observer regrets the error. 

Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If ~·ou think ltali;m tiJod is just spaghetti ;md pizza. we\"e got a mouth -opening experience waiting ti lf you every Wetb1est~ty night from ~:tXl · !OtXl p.m. at ·nw Looking c;l;L~S lbtaur;mt in the South Bend \larriott. 
b1troducing \\;una \\arriott"s -a IJ/11111 p,us/11 array of ;mti]XL~ta. minestrom·. tt.·ttucint•. cacciatore. l;L~agne. p;L~ta ;md ti lllf satil.'l'S. clwese. hreatb ;md tbserts 
It"s ,tll smed up in a festi\l' lt;tli;m atnH !Sphere ­checkered tablecloths. a strolling musici;m ­the work;.; 
All mu cu1 eat ti wSht)~ Children under I~-S~q~ 
Reservations Appreciated 
.~ nrederd' 
South Bt·nd/.,\\oniottttotrt. 
12) ~-St. Joseph St.. South Hend (219) 234-2000 
The Observer 

A member of The Esophagus Constrictors uses his trusty calculator to determine the trajectory of the shot his team is about to take, this time taking the wind into account. Moments later, to the
... 
surprise of all, the ball went through the hoop. 

• • • Constrictors 
continuedfrom page 16 

especially since they feel that they are the only 4.0 team in the tourna­ment. 
The Constrictors were very pleased with the game's outcome, despite the score. "Hey, we got a seven on Emil for the game," they said later. "We were sorry that we had to lose 'valuable study time, would like a rematch with Old Men, though," added David Proulx of the promising to study up aU year for it. Constrictors. For the record, Ticket Manager 
The Esophagus Constrictors have Steve Orsini Jed Old Men with his 9­now played in Bookstore for the last of-14 shooting while Mark English of five years. And they return all five of the Constrictors could manage only this year's starters next year, includ­two of 19 shots. ing the only remaining member of In other action yesterday, Five the original Esophagus Constrictor Screams From the Loft, a team team, Joe Aiu. composed of Notre Dame Chapel 
The Constrictors say that they Choir members, were beaten by the 
largest margin of this year's tourna­

ment, 21-2. The team showed up for their game with Two Fourth Genera­tion Domer Brothers . . . wearing their white choir robes and singing from their hymnals. 
Dave Turner of Team #277 was 1-of-10 in his team's game with the
AKER'S BIKE SHOP Inc 
Marauders. Turner was 0-for-9 for his own team and 1-for-1 for the Marauders as the Marauders won 21­
gc~~l~~ Bicycles 
( 
4 going away. The seeded, and highly regarded, 
Brick Throwers easily won their
Patts, Accessories,
\ 

game with Stoneheads, 21-5. BOOKSTORE BRIEFS-Yester­
and Service fot all makes 
day's action marked the conclusion of the first round; 256 teams remain active ... If you're looking to see
277-8866 
some top seeds in action today, there are two games you might want to check out Tournament favorite
In Roseland :one half mile north 
Double Decker Oreo Cookie takes on Three Guys Who Hate the Other
of campus on U.S. 31 
Two at 6:15 on Stepan 8 and S.W.C., featuring six-time Bookstore and former Notre Dame player Tim Hea­ly, squares off against We're Bad But Don't Wave ... at 4:45 on Bookstore 9. 


Wednesday, April13, 1983-page 14 
Netters fall to NU after four~win weekend 
By MARK B. JOHNSON held the Blue Demons scoreless to 
Sports Writer register a 6-0 victory. 

Leading the Irish charge were 
Coming off of a four-win McMahon, Gibbons, Nelligan. 
weekend, which included three Novatny, D. Pratt, and Noonan, as all 
shutouts, Coach Tom Fallon's mens turned in superb p-erformances. 

tennis team stormed into Wildcat With inclement weather and 
territory last night with a 17-8 court availability threatening, the 
record and a newly found sense of Irish changed to ten-game pro sets. 
confidence. Unfortunately, to play Wisconsin-Oshkosh. Even 
someone forgot to tell the Wildcats, this change could not stop the rol­
as Northwestern's Big Ten power­ling Irish, as they perfected an ear­
house settled the Irish storm, 7-1. lier 8-I win to take their second 6-0 
Playing No. 6 singles, junior Tim shutout ofthe meet. 

Noonan earned the only Irish win, as Again leading the lopsided Irish 
he came back from a first-set defeat win were McMahon, Gibbons, Nel­
to topple Dave Kabiller, 1-6,6-2, 6-4. ligan, Novatny, D. Pratt, and Noonan. 
At No. 1 for the 'Cats,Jon Kamisar Northern Illinois proved them­
defeated senior Irish captain Mark selves contenders, as the Irish 
McMahon, 6-2, 6-3, while Danny needed to work for their eventual 5­
Weiss played to a 7-5, 6-2 win over 2 victory and quadrangular sweep. 
sophomure Mike Gibbons. Fresh­In the first doubles competition of 
men Joe Nelligan dropped a 6-3, 6-0 the meet, the teams of Noonan­
match to a talented Mike Krebs. Novatny and Gibbons and sopho­
Both sophomore John Novatny and more Tom Pratt met with success, 
freshmen Doug Pratt took their op­while Gibbons, Nelligan and 
ponents to three sets, but to no avail Novatny all earned singles victories. 
in either case, as Novatny lost 6-1, After returning to campus Satur­
1-6, 6-0 to Marc Leizman and Pratt day night, Fallon headed his troops 
5-7, 6-2, 7-5 at the hands.of Marco to Valparaiso Sunday afternoon to 
Wen. make up a postponed match. The 
Weiss and Leizman combined to Irish were not to be beaten this 
defeat the No. 2 Irish doubles team weekend, as they blasted an inferior 
of McMahon and fellow senior Paul squad, 9-0. 

Idzik, 6-2, 6-3, and in doing so, they Consistent with the rest of the 
clinched the Wildcat win to halt the weekend, McMahon, Gibbons, Nel­
evening's action. Noonan and ligan, Novatny and D. Pratt per­
Novatny had lost a 7-6 set to Kamisar formed almost flawlessly, as T. Pratt, 
and Krebs in the No. 1 competition filling in for a studying Noonan, 
when the match was decided, and added a top performance to sweep 
the No. 3 teams had not even taken the singles competition. 

to the courts. McMahon-Idzik, Gibbons-D. Pratt, 
As for their slightly more success­and Novatny-T.Pratt all proved suc­
ful weekend, Fallon's squad traveled cessful combinations in doubles 
to Northern Illinois Friday to battle competition. 

Northern Illinois, Western Illinois Even with the loss to a superior 
and Wisconsin-Oshkosh in a two­Northwestern team last night, the 
day quadrangular, but to their Irish are still riding high as they 
surprise, not only did Western Il­prepare to play host to Big Ten 
·I
I
linois not show, but DePaul's Blue monsters Michigan State and Michi­
Demons arrived unannounced to gan this weekend. 
compete. 

Not flustered by the sudden "This team is coming around," 
scheduling change, the Irish went to stated Tom Pratt. "We will be ready 
work immediately against their first for them (Michigan State and Michi­
opponent, DePaul. Behind six solid gan), and we will give them our best 
singles performances. Notre Dame shot." 
Digger, 'Mary D. 'wait 
as recruits sign today 

By MIKE RICCARDI whether the Irish will land their big­
Sports Editor gest prizes of the recruiting season. 
The status ofDavid Popson, the 6-10 
For Digger Phelps and Mary DiS­center touted as the nation's best big 
tanislao, not to mention hundreds of man this year, seems to be still very 
other basketball coaches across the much up in the air. 

country, today is a red-letter day on All winter, Popson has said that his 
the calendar. choice would be either Notre Dame 
It's D-Day in the college basket­and the University of North 
ball world. Carolina The speculation is that 
However, it remains to be seen Popson, from Kingston, Pa., near 
Wilkes-Barre, is leaning toward 
Carolina, but that his father, Ber­
nard, would like to see Papson en­
roll at Notre Dame.

GRADUATE 
Popson is expected to announceFROM COMPUTER GAMES. his decision before he graduatesTRAIN FOR ARMY from Bishop O'Reilly High School
REMEMBER 
DATA COMMUMICAnOMS. next month. 
Phelps is also in the hunt for 
If you're good at computer games. you Vearboo~ Senior Portraits!! 
Donald Royal from New Orleans. 

might be perfect for a job in data communica­
Mary D. is still prospecting for a 
tions. But it's tough to get a job like that with­
center herself. She hopes to have
out experience. And it's rough toget experience, April 5 to April 22 
word in the next two weeks on the
unless you join today's Army. 
9:30 · 1 and 2 · 5:00 status of that search, in which she
Qualify. and the Army will train you for 
YOU CAN STILL SIGN UP FOR YOUR PORTRAIT BY finds herself competing with high­
one of many_different skills in data communica­
CALLING 239-5183 NOW!! powered Louisiana Tech and Texas.
tions and electronics. Since almost every large 
It would he major news if Digger 
organization or corporation depends heavily on 
Sittings: Traditional $5.00 
such equipment, you might qualify for similar or Mary D. came up with their
Contemporary $8.15 
civilian work in the future. aircraft carriers today. However, If you'd rather work with computers than while we prohably won't be hearing play with them. see your local Army Recruiter. Please pay by Check or bring Exact Change .... that, Phelps and DiStanislao will be He'll help you devise a new game plan. getting final signatures from Scott Hicks and John Bowen, Vonnie Sergeant Hamilton Thompson, Lavetta Willis and Mick­ey Skierez. South Bend 234-4187 
Hicks and Bowen were pre-season committments for Phelps, while Thompson, Willis and Skierez gave verbal nods to DiStanislao duringARMY. BE ALLYOU CAM BE. the winter. 

----a -• -5 
Tode~:y 

Bloom County 
1V~Y••eXIIC.Tt.Y 1HRf£ Y€AR5 A60, 171SCO MV51C 
OFFIQAU-V 1/IW. 1D MARK 1HIS 5fll7 OCCASION, 
111£RE:; WI(..(..·Bf. NO, REPEAT; NO FRIWJUTY IN 
1VffiY'5 STRIP. 



Simon 
Berke Breathed 
OIJVIOVSt.Y I'M 
NOf 5P£11KIN0 fOR €VOOOO£. 


Jeb Cashin 
David). Adams 
oo~·· sA Y 

ANYTHING 1 'J'US'T SAY ANY"TNIJ/6.. 
I 


Aspirin Man 
i.IE~E HEit£ AT ~E 
0111"1£ FoR LNE 
~ IJMdT6Ai.L C0VIiltll6£... ON "TNE cowa /HIS NT Nf»J, 
·;,s,.,~pf'IAI/' AAIO • t~rllllt co,..ICS TNAT lfltZN'7 
'UAIN)"' IS 'LAYIAI~ • "ltOWIJLif srlfCIUIJ ~." 
The Daily Crossword 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

ACROSS 1 Links 
sport 5 Welshman 9 Vestm11nts 
14 Currency· exchange fee 
15 Gray, as If with age 16 Candlestick 
Park, e.g. 17 No big deal 19 Actress; 
Jessica 20 Sowing machine 21 Goldie of films 23 Numerals: abbr. 
24 Military school letters 
26 Paper 28 Conniver 31 Uncrowded 34 Article 35 Corrigenda 
kin 38 -bene 39 Continued 
at length 41 One-kind 42 Sammy and 
Danny 43 Piggery 
noise 44 Rouse 46 Greeting 47 Wielding a 
crowbar 

Tuesday's Solution 

4/13/83 

r--------------------------------,
I N.D. Student Union is proud to present 1
! ALEX HALEY I 
IAuthor of Roots & The AutobiograP-hY I I of Malcolm X .1 
I I I speaking on: II "The Future of the Family" J I ~ I
1 Wednesday, April13, 1983 8:00p.m. 1 I Library Auditorium -reception following I 
~--~-----------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April13, 1983-page 15 
Campus 
•1 
p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs. Ball State Univer­sity, Jake Kline Field 

•2-5 
p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Thermodynamic Con­straiints on Catalytic Reaction Pathways," Prof Reuel Shinnar, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•3:30 
p.m.-Shakespeare Symposium, Perfor­mance and Lecture, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Computers in Chemical Research," Prof. Maurice Schwartz, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Lecture, "Plumage Colora· tion and Dominance Behavior in Three Species of Sparrows," Dr. Doris Watt, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting for Students Interested in the Ireland Program, 232 Moreau Hall 

•6:30 
p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•6:30 
p.m. -Amnesty International Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, St. Ed's Chapel 

•7 
p.m. -Concert, Xavier Ribalta, Catalan Folk Singer, Little Theatre, Sponsored by Spanish Club, S2 

•7:30 
p.m. -Shakespearse Symposium Lecture, "Maimed Rites: Interrupted Ceremony in Hamlet," Prof. David Bevington, 122 Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Future of the Family" Alex Haley, author ofRoots, Library Lounge 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Frege and the History of Philosophy: Three. Perspectives," Prof Michael Dummett, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Chesterton: Adversary of Scientism," Rev. Stanley L Jaki, Rare Book Room, Library 

•8:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "Relations Between Church and State," Prof. Walter Nicgorski, 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 

•8:30 
p.m. -Piano Recital, Laura McEvoy, 115 Crowley Hal 

• 
Midnite -The Music Mill, Robin Brown, WSND·FM 88.9 


-The Far Side 

"I just CAN'T go in there, Bart! ... Some fellow in there and I are wearing the same kind of hat!" 
• 
.. 
49 Flattened 
dough anew 51 ABalley 53 Hwy. 54 Wolfed 56 Spinnaker 58 Pianist's 
direction 62 Musical groups 64 Creeping 
plant 66 A Ford 67-back 
(requited) 68 "I smell-" 69 Torte tier 70 Havens for 
wayfarers 71 Plaything 
DOWN 1 Ravines 2 Arch type 3 Football 
squad unit 4 Cheese dish 5 Enchantress 6 Age 7 Wood strip 8 Beata path 9 Tabby's 
weakness 10 Mouths: Lat. 11 Mint plant 12 Within: 
pref. 13 Simon­(game) 


18 Sycophants 22 "It-Very 
GoodYear'' 25 Pointer 27 A Cantrell 28 Sharpener 29 Recliner 30 Fictional 
alarmist 32 Martin or 
Allen 33 Relaxed 38 In the diS· 
tance 37 Appropriate 40 Migrant 
worker 42 Puzzlingly complex 44 Taj Mahal's 
city 45 Short trips 48 ASadat 
predecessor 50 Latitude 52 Fra Llppo ­54 First 
victim 55 GWTW 
locale 57 Skinny 59 Philippine 
native 60 Supplicate 61 Lyricist 
Harbach 63 Slne­65 Author 
Anals 
_j 

& 0 a a 
UL 

SQorts 
Wednesday, April13, 1983-page 16 
Bookstore wrapup 

Faust's team wins for first time 
ByJEFF BLUMB from large books that had to have in this fashion, before finally taking a Sports Writer weighed close to 25 pounds. shot the same way. 
• 
A variety of defenses were That is not the only way that the Gerry Faust got a new definition employed to try to confuse Old Men. Constrictors shot, however. There ofthe term student-athlete last night One, the "Gandhi D", was a salute to was also the "P.K. Memorial Drop 
as his team, Old Men on the Block, Mahatma Gandhi and had the Con­Kick," which left Constrictor team rook to B<;>okstore court 9 to play strictors lying on the court in the members dropping the ball and then The Esophagus Constrictors. form ofa' G'. kicking it up towards the basket. 
"They do so much for the term "We decided to do it last night as a In no way did the Constrictors for­'student-athlete,"' later remarked tribute to Gandhi after seeing the get that they were playing Gerry Defensive Line Coach Jay Academy Awards," the Constrictors Faust's team. They also ran a mock Robertson, who was quite a gunner said afterward. football play, that, incidentally, led for Old Men, shooting 3-23. The tactic obviously worked, as to a supposed touchdown. 
The Esophagus Constrictors, a Old Men missed a lay-up while the Mark English of the Constrictors team that worships studying, used a Constrictors were in that defense. later had this comment: "We may variety of intellectual tactics to try But the Constrictors also used the have lost the game but we gained and win the game. In the end, "semi-permeable membrane" more yardage than them." though, they came up short, losing defense in the game. Holding hands lfaving their calculators along for to Faust's team by a 21-7 score. to stretch acrpss the court, the Con­the game at one point helped the 
· The game was the most fun ofthis strictors were semi-permeable in Constrictors to score a point. After year's tournament by far. "I thought letting Old Men break through their calculating what the trajectory of that they were tremendously membrane-type defense. shot should be, with adjustment for resourceful and quite entertaining," The zone defense was also the wind variable, the shot was put commented Robertson. employed in a whole new way. The up-and in. "I think we felt like the Washington Constrictors set up in this defense Faust, obviously thinking there Generals (the team that the Harlem by having one man standing in each was magic in this approach, tried it Globetrotters always play) because comer ofthe court and one at center next time down the court. He, unfor­ofall the things they were doing out court. tunately, met with absolutely no there." The Constrictors also showed the success. 
Clad in white shirts, ties, shorts, basketball world a whole new of­Playing the Constrictors at one and calculators on their belts, The fensive concept -the "benzene point led Faust to say, "I finally found Esophagus Constrictors delighted ring" play. This had one of the Con­somebody who is a worse basketball the large crowd with their antics. strictors dribbling up the court player than me." Occasional study breaks were in or­within a ring of his four other And what would a basketball der throughout the game, as the teammates. game be without cheers and cheer­Constrictors were worried about And then there was the 1812 play, leaders. There were a number of losing valuable study time. which had the crowd and Old Men cheers throughout that boasted of 
In fact, the Constrictors did not moving their arms similar to that the Contrictors' academic prowess, even worry about warming up done at football games. The Con­before"the game, but instead studied strictors passed the ball up the court see CONSTRICTORS, page 14 

N. L. EAST 
Can Expos prevent a Cardinal encore? 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Editor 

The first thing you notice about the National League's East Division is that halfofit has won the World Series in the past four years. The team that has had the best record over that period oftime, though, is none ofthe crowned heads ofPittsburgh, Philadelphia or St. Louis. 
It is the Montreal Expos, who, for some reason, have been baseball's best club of the past few years, but is yet title-less. It seems that it is always "the" year for the Expos. That is the case again. But, as the Cardinals showed last year, potential means nothing in October. 
.. 
St. Louis -The Cardinals are playing with a pat hand, and why not? Manager Whitey Herzog's most severe problem may be finding a way to stuff George Hendrick, Lonnie Smith, Willie McGee and David Green into the same outfield. Of course, St. Louis' starting pitching came on at World Series time last year, and with a full season, could become one of the league's better rotations. And ifthe Cards lead you in the seventh inning, kiss it goodbye ­Bruce Sutter's ready in the bullpen. 
Montreal -The perennial National League April favorite is back again, with a new skipper. Mellow Bill Virdon is supposed to do what mellow Jim Fanning couldn't, and spur the 'Spos to the title. Gary Carter says they "have five MVP candidates," but after Steve Rogers and Bill Gullickson, the starting pitching isn't much better than ordinary. 
Philadelphia -Now, they're the "Wheeze Kids." Featuring three vital members of the Big Red Machine of the mid-1970's Ooe Morgan, Tony Perez and one Peter Edward Rose), Steve Carlton, the game's best pitcher, and Mike Schmidt, probably the best single player of the past few years, the Phillies resemble the Over-the-Hill Gang ~ they're a banrl of vets riding into Dodge for one last shootout. The key, however, may be the recovery of injured out­fielder Von Hayes. The Phils dealt five players for Hayes, so his injury could be devastating -ifhe's that good in the first place. 
Chicago -Yeah, they're 1-6 ... but in yesterday's Chicago Sun-Times, manager Lee Elia insisted that his Cubbies were "a damn good ballclub." Right. But they have obtained Ron Cey at third base, and with full seasons fromJody Davis and Ryne Sandberg, the North Siders, in stretches, can play like they did at the end of last season, when they were one of the majors' hottest clubs. Their pitching, however, is atrocious. And they're still the Cubs, so what can you expect? Fourth, if they're lucky. 
Pittsburgh -This is another team that finished strongly last year. The Bucs' starting eight is good, and Pittsburgh is not the old legs in the division (the oldest starter, Bill Madlock, is 32). But they don't have the arms to keep up with the rest ofthe field. 
New York -The Mets were New York's biggest off-Broadway flop last season, as George Foster's .247 average keynoted a year of stunted hopes for George Bamberger's club. Tom Seaver will bring back memories ofthe magic vintage of 1969, but that's about all. 







