-----~­
----------------------------------------. 
Irish Extra-page 11 



HPC proposes alcohol 'contracts' 
ByJANE KRAVCIK really zeroes in on the abusive The food sales proposal passed in­StaffReporter drinker. We've used this policy in cluded the following guidelines: Dillon for a couple of years. From health and fire regulations would be Suggestions for the punishment of what I've seen, it does work." given to the food sales commis­students who abuse alcohol were , "So many rectors are afraid to go sioners at the beginning of each part of the Alcohol proposal passed out on a limb," said Zahm President year, communications would be en­last night at the last Hall President's Bob Johnson. "If they are given couraged between the Environmen­Council meeting of the semester in rules, they won't fed like they are tal Safety Board and hall food sales Flanner Hall. stepping out ofbounds. We're trying managers, each food sales would be A food sales proposal was also to help drunk people on campus, not inspected at the end ofeach Septem­passed. hurt anyone." ber, and each food sales would be 
TI1e proposal suggested that the Having men's and women's dorms subject to further unannounced in­first time a person is caught drunk to co-sponsor parties was another sug­spections at any time:. the point of being destructive to gestion included in the proposal. Brian Callaghan, student hody presi­himself, others or property, he Flanner Hall President Paul Sheridan dent, spokl' at the meeting as did would be given a warning Ifthe stu­said, "If we even out the ratio and Andy Tucker,<>mhudsmen director. dent is caught drunk again, he would more girls are around, guys will have Callaghan asked HPC for thdr have to sign a contract saying that he more to do than drink." ideas on compensation tiJr siUdent would not drink for two weeks, and Other suggestions included: government members. "Right now, then would not get drunk for two having only beer and wine in party it looks like course credit will be more weeks. A copy of the contract rooms, cutting off alcohol at a given. like an internship," he said. would be sent to the students designated hour, having student ac­Later. Callaghan added. "there are parents. If the student broke the tivities strive to sponsor at least one too many consequences to money contract, he would be sent to the non-alcoholic event each weekend, rolling." 
dean ofstudents. having more space available for non­Callaghan also discussed the HPC members generally sup­alcoholic events, and having alcohol preferential treatment given Student ported this suggestion. Dillon Presi­education be a mandatory rotation 
see HPC, page 5
dent Bernie Pellegrino said. "this in the freshmen physical education. 
Scholastic has 'renewal' tradition 
Editor's note:This is the third in a 
concerned with the rift between the dealt with sex. One article in 1978 threepart series on People ofPraise, ghosts of Charismatic Renewal past read, He had once found himself a charismatic group on campus. and present. shou,ering in a girl's donn. ...There This year's seniors were eight U'as an immediate ebb of mas­By KEVIN BINGER years old when Bill Storey split with culini~V and a rise in the throb of Copy Editor the Charismatic movement, 13 years his pulse. He learned then that one old whenJosephine Ford wa<> kicked should avoid combining eroticism Few members ofthe Notre Dame out. and embarrassment while sur­
celebrate,Christmas under the testiest ofcircumstances. chapter ofPeople ofPraise are much One of those seniors is Jim Gan­rounded by sleepy hordes of wet, ther, editor-in-chief of The Scholas­nakedfemales. tic. The two previous editors, Beth Wood thought they were writing Healy and Chuck Wood, were also just for the shock value and wanted

Schultz suggests link in bombings 
People ofPraise members. to make a change. All three say that the succession is "Since Notre Dame is a Catholic a coincidence and The Scholastic is university, it made sense that the 
Associated Press Kuwait bombings Monday, includ­terrorism. He named only North 
not a forum for People of Praise magazine should take on difficult 
ing the driver of the explosives­Korea, which he said was respon­
ideas. issues with a Christian approach. I 
USBON, Portugal -Secretary of laden truck that smashed into the sible for the recent bombing in 
People of Praise involvement knew it wouldn't serve the students 
'-)tate George P. Shultz said yesterday embassy compound and blew up. Burma that killed more than 20 
reached a peak last year under Beth to make it (The Scholastic) some 
there "quite likely" is a link between There were no American deaths. people, including a number of top 
Healy, now Beth Healy-Preuss. Five sort of evangalism. That's not what 
the U.S. Embassy bombing in Kuwait Shultz said the bombings in South Korean government officials. 
People of Praise members were on the magazine is supposed to be." 
and attacks on American facilities in Kuwait, which included attacks on Shultz said a great deal ofinforma­
the editorial staff and several more Wood was involved in the Charis­
Lebanon. He wart1ed of possible the French Embassy and Kuwaiti tion has been received on the 
wrote articles during the year. matic Renewal before he came to 
retaliation. government installations, were part Kuwait bombings and is being 
This year Ganther is one of only Notre Dame and now belongs to a 
"If the offenders can be clearly ofa "pattern ofviolence ofthis kind" studied. Asked if it appeared con­
two People of Praise members on People of Praise community in Falls 
identified, then I think there will be throughout the world. nected to the bombings of the 
the board and only one People of Church, Va 
ways ofgetting at them," Shultz said "I think it is a serious international American Embassy in Beirut and the 

Praise member has written articles Healy-Preuss was the only personat a news conference. problem and steps do need to be U.S. Marine headquarters there, 
for the magazine. Ganther predicts to apply for the editorship at the end He declined to elaborate, and it taken," Shultz said. "Beyond that, in Shultz said: "i think that is quite like­
that next year's editor will not be of the year and followed closely in was not clear ifhe was speaking only terms of U.S. action, I do not want to ly." 
from the Charismatic community. Wood's footsteps.
ofAmerican retaliation orofjoint ac­comment specifically." 
The community has no political "I consider The Scholastic to be 
tion involving other countries. The secretary also said that, U.S. officials have declined to 
ideology, according to Ganther, an opportunity to look at issues 
At least seven people were killed "certain countries seem to be sys­publicly blame any goup for the 
who said members range from the more in depth," Healy-Preuss said. 
and more than 60 injured in the tematically behind" international bombings. 
extreme left to the extreme right. "I'm going to write about the things 
The three editors, however, have that are important to me, and for a guided The Scholastic through some Catholic, those are things that in­major style changes. volve social justice."
Observer, Hesburgh reach impasse 
Wood, editor during the 1981-"Two of her magazines were 1982 school year, called the devoted to "Spirituality and Social editorial style before he took over Justice," and her The Last Word
ByJEFF HARRINGTON the past years has been one of trust The Observer submitted a 
the "Saturday Night Uve school of columns dealt with issues like abor­
Assistant News Editor and should continue in that fashion," proposal last week agreeing to place 
journalism." tion, taking Advent seriously, and 
he continued. its finances under the University 
"There seemed to be a philosophy seeking the truth in education in­
Negotiations over an Observer Dziedzic said yesterday the budget system pending several con­
ofgoing out ofour way to appear as stead of material gain. Both Wood 
decision to join the University's newspaper "will not go under the ditions. The University had ordered 
'intellectually rebellious' as pos­

budget system have reached an im­(University) Budget Unit Control the paper to join Notre Dame's inter­see PRAISE, page 5
sible," Wood said ofthe style at The 
passe with University President System until some particular ques­nal budget system by Jan. I after 
Scholastic for the four years before 
Father Theodore Hesburgh refusing tions are settled and we have some cases of financial mismanagement 
he took charge. "I had questions
to sign an agreement with the paper basic assurances in writing. and a S7,000 deficit were uncovered 
about some ofthe things they chose 

that Observer officials have re­"I am very disappointed that in a University-conducted audit of to present and the ways they chose ~"H.ppy­
• quellted. ( Hesburgh) is unwilling to sign an the '82-'830bserver operation. "Hoild•ri ~ 
to present them." 

In a letter to Observer Editor-in­agreement," Dziedzic added. "In es­In his letter to Dziedzic, Hesburgh This is the last issue of the The
One thing Wood objected to was 

Chief David Dziedzic, Hesburgh sence, we will be tlliJliqg over agreed .to most fucets of the Ob­Observer for 1983. The Observer 
the obscene language allowed by

wrote that "relationships among or­S20,000 (currently in Observer server proposal, including: establish­will resume publication on
previous editors. One headline in 

ganizations of the University have bank accounts) to them and I don't ing a three-member arbitration Thursday,January 19,1984. All of
1978 read, When Hell freezes Over. 

been traditionally familial in nature. see how we can be expected to turn board to judge cases ofeditorial in­us congenial folk at The Observer 
An article in 1979 read,It seems like 

lberefore, it is not my intention to over that amount of terference by the Administration, wish everyone a very happy and
everything came together, all the 

sign a contract with The Observer. money ...without some sort ofwrit­safe holiday season.
see OBSERVER, page 5 shit. 
"I believe that the relationship of ten arrangement." 
Fiction in the pre-Wood era often 

The Observer Wednesday, December 14, 1983 -page 2 
~ 

In Brie£ 'Twas the night beforefinats 
The 1984 presidential campaign may just 
be getting underway during the first part of next semestt·r, hut the elections for student body president and student senate will be in full swing. Election day has been set fi>r Feb. I 4, but pt:"titions needed to qualify candidatt·s will be avaiable Feb. I. Two informational mn·tings for prospective candidates have been scheduled for Jan. .~0. Elections for class ottkers and off-campus commissioner will be held March 'i. Ruks ti>r tht· elt-ctions, which were approved at this wt-ek's student senate mn·ting, art· very similar to last year's except for a nt·w provision requiring candidates "to behave ethically at all times." Students will elect one senator from each of five districts. The SBP tickt·t will also include a student body vice presidential t·andidate. -The Obsen•er 
A check for $1,816.30 was presented to the North­
east Ne-ighborhood Council Monday night by the organizers of the "Guttin' It Run," a 24-hour relay run hdd before the Air Force foot­hall gamt· Nov. 19 . .Jim Kirschbaum and Rich Dyer organized the t·vent to hdp residents of the Northt·ast neighborhood pay fi>r food and utilitil-s this winter. The run began on Friday at noon, and 20 runnns rotatt·d throughout the day and night. Dyer said that a total of Il-!7. 'i miles wt·rc· covered by the volunteers. 'The student response was grt·at," said Dyer. "It was incredibk to see their (the council membt·rs') fac.:es,'' he said. "Wt· doubled their treasury." The Northt·ast Neighborhood St·rvice Center will allocate the funds, said 
I >~Tr. -The ( )bsen•er 

A Niles woman. hdatnllr reported an assault and at­temptt·d rapt· on:uring t·arly Monday morning near the East Gate on .Junipn Road. Campus security oltkials were contacted after the vic· tim was told by Michigan and St.Joseph County officers to report the inddt·nt to Notrt· Dame. The woman said she was giving an acquain· tance a rilk to his South Bend home wht·n he re:-moved the keys from tht· ignition and tore her dotht·s. Neither the man ni>r the:-woman is connt-c:ted with Notre Dame. -The Obsen•er 
A $105,000 suitwill he filed against the University in St. .fost·ph County Circuit Court by Val St. Charles and his legal coun~el Attorney Brian May. St. Charles was dismissed from the llniVl"rsity in October for allegedly assaulting Notre Dame security guards at the Main (;ate. The suit will he tiled on Friday, December 
16. St. Charles alleges that he was assaulted by security and was suhst·quently treated illegally by the administration during the dis· dplinary pron-edings. 
Of Interest 

Superdance '84, to bmdit the Muscular Dystrophy Association. is bdng organized by the Center for Social Concerns and nine South Bend area high school Distributive Education C. As· sodations. Tht· tlant·e marathon, scht·dukd ti>r March 17, is in· temktl fi>r high school students. so as not to contlict with tht• Mardi Ciras tlann·athon. Notre Damt· or Saint Marv's studt·nts, however, will he ntTdnl to help prt·part· fi>r the t'\T~t. A meeting of those intnt·stetl will takt· platT today at 7 p.m. in tht· Center for Social <:onn·rns. -The ( >bsen•er 
Benveen 20 and 30 transfer students are c:x­pt-cted to t·nroll in the l'nivnsitv in Januarv. Orientation activities and a welcom(' ceremony art· hl"ir~g pianm·d.' Karen Klockt· and Mike Attnl'SSl'Y will bt' holding a mt-eting of stmknts interested in working on thi~ projt-ct today at 6 p.m. in the:-LaFortune lobby. ­
I be ( >fJsert•t•r 

ND Right to Life rl·minds those who signed up for the .January 25 ":\larch f~>r Life" in Washington, D.C.. that the S 1 'i deposit is due Imlay in the Right to l.ik office. Tht· mart·h will protest tbl· l'lt·n·nth annin·rsary of the Suprl'lne Court decision to makt· abor­tions kgal in tht' llnitnl States. -The Ohsen•er 
A Olristnlas Sale to ht'ndlt Sister Marita's Primary Day .School will he hdd in the main concourse of the Memorial Library at Notre Daml· tomorrow and Friday from 10 a.m. until I 0 
p.m. <iift itl·ms indutk hand-knitted hats and scarves, pottery, Christmas cards. all tlonatnl by studt·nts and frit'nds of the school. Pron·eds will bl· usnl to hdp inner-city t·hild.ren in a special, in· tt·nsivt· rt·ading and math program which Primary Day School providt·s. Till' third annual sale: is sponsored by the Senior Advisory ( :ouncil.-/be Ohsen•er 

Weather · · 
Ninety percent chan.ce of rain today, breezy and mild. Highs in thl· mid 40s. A 90 pern·nt chance of rain early tonight with snow likely late. Lows around 30. Snow showers and colder tomorrow with temperatures sliding down through the 20s. · AP 
'Twas the night beforefinals and all through ND Not a creature was sleeping, not even me. The books were piled up ten feet bigb on my desk In a desperate cram for tomorrow's test. 
I longed to be snuggled all warm in my bed 
But visions offailure flashed tbn;ugb my bead. 
So with my eighth mug t 'Jf coffee and my third midnight snack 
I turned to my booksfor one last attack. 
When out on the quad there arose such a clatter I sprang from my desk to see what was the matter. Away to the lobby Iflew like a flash tore open the shutter and threw up the sash. The Dome on the crest ofthe shoulder-deep snow gave a luster ofmidday to objects below. And what to my wondering ryes did appear butt?. miniaturegolfcart and eight cases ofbeer 
With a little old driver, all dressed in red ..... I knew in a moment it must be St. Ted. Over the rooftops the courses tbry came 
and be whistled and chanted and called them by name, 
"On Heineken, Micbelob, Miller andSchlitz 
On Budweiser, Lowenbrau, Lite and Schmitz, 
To the top ofthe Dome! to the top ofthe sky! I' 
Now dash awtl_V boys, and we'll/eave this place dry." 
I walked back to my room and was turning around t· ~ 
When down the fire-escape St. Theodore came with a bound. 
He was dressed all in redfrom his bead to hisfoot 
and his clothes were all tarnished with ashes and soot. 
He was merry andplump, a rightjol~v old elf 
and I knelt when I saw him in spite ofmyself 
His wry little mouth was drawn like a bow 
and the hair on his bead was as u•bite as the snow. 
He spoke nota word but went straight to his work 
andpulled all my Christmas lights down with a jerk. 
"Stop it," I shouted, "just look whatyou've done!" 
He said, "This is N.D. you cannot havefun. 
AsAtHaig told me the other day 
'I'm in control here, there's no room to play.' 
Now get back to yourstudies andplease don'tpout." 
I said, "It's pastparietals, you'd betterget out." 
He said, "Try and stop me," and his round little belly 
Shook when be laughed like a bowlfull ofjelly. 
He opened myfridge door and said with a frown, 
"This thing is filthy, let's shut it down." 
He emptied my bar out and when be was through 
n 
He grabbed my Observer, saying, "I'll take this too." •I Then laying his finger aside ofhis nose and giving a nod I. down the 'vator he rode. 
But I heard him exclaim as he sank out ofsight, "Big brother is watching, so have a good night." 
The Obs.erver 
::r
~l 
( 
~··"* 


The ObMrvar (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObMrvar IS pubh shed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys College. Subscnphons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) ti'ywrilirtg The Obaervar. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Obaervar IS a member of The Aasochlted Pre... All reproduction nghts are reserved 
-Amy Stephan 


1984 

BCAF FASHION SHOW COMMITTEE 
announces tryouts for "Silhouttes", 
the Annual Fashion Show, on Jan. 26. Anyone interested please pick up forms in Black Studies Office, 345 O'Shag. Until December 21. 
.--•••••-•••••••• 6.50 Savings ••••••••••••-·•-.
i wbt1\nigltm nftltt <1tasilt 
I '-II
I ' minutes from campus 
I I 
.......I _..., 
I 

545:tS Terrace Lane, 
·!:outh Bend(Across from 
'\ Martin's on S.R. 23} 
' H 'I. 
l ' w 8:30-5:30 Th 8:30-8:30 Fr 8:30-6:00 s 8:30-2:30 
HairCut Shampoo Blow Dry & Condition Reg. $15·00 Now $8·50 with coupon 
offer only applies to male patrons 
ClosedMon 277·1691 272·0i12 
'---------..........~~-"-·-'·L•.;,.-:.;.,.-.;~.·.-·~w~iJ:so'Sif\tirigr;,;•'-•~o~•..w:.:c~~__.d 
' 
L_ 
The Observer Wednesday, December 14, 1983 -page 3 
Silky's to serve as Memphis, Tenn~ 

unofficial ND HQ 
By MARY PACE 
news staff 
The Hyatt Regency in Memphis 
will be the official Notre Dame 
Alumni and Team headquarters for 
the Liberty Bowl; the unofficial 
headquarters will be located at a bar 
named Silky Sullivan's. 
Silky's bar is located in Overton 
Square in Memphis and Silky en­
courages aU Notre Dame fans to stop 
by while they arc in town. "This isn't 
the Orange Bowl or the Rose Bowl, 
but we put ten times as much effort 
into the Uberty Bowl, so this will be 
ten times more fun." 
"We're going to light a fire under 
you, and make you live up to your 
'Fighting Irish' image", promises 
Silky. 
The bar itslf is really four bars in 
one and it can hold up to 700 
people. "My bar is strictly Irish, and 
we have pictures and paintings of 
outstanding Notre Dame people all 
over, and we've got the fight song 
too." 
Silky says he'll "show y'all some 
real Southern hospitality," which of 
course includes serving his famous 
'diver' drink(contents not revealed) 
which is served in a paint bucket. 
At the Hyatt, the president of the 
Notre Dame Club of Memphis, Don 
Stark, is in charge ofevents. "All 204 
members of the marching band, the 
cheerleaders, and the leprechaun 
will be at the pep rally, being held on 
Wednesday, Dec. 28 at the Hyatt, 
and afterwords there will be dancing 
to a live b:.nd." 
"There will also be a buffet supper 
at the coliseum, located adjacent to 
the stadium. it will start at 4 p.m. 
Thursday, with all you can eat and all 
you can drink for a fixed price. " 
Hopefully we'll have buses going to 
the coliseum for the supper, and 
then from the stadium after the 
game," said Stark. 
Also on Thursday, there will be a 
mass and a continental breakfast at 
yatt at 9 a.m., and a post-game 
celebration beginning at II :30 p.m. 
Stark predicts a good time for all: "At 
first there was a lot of mixed emo­
tions in Memphis, with regard to the • 
bowl game, because these are two 
Catholic teams, and there are few 
Catholics here, and these are two 
non-area teams. But now, you can't 
beg, buy, or borrow a ticket around 
here." 
~****************$ 
** . •
* •
* •
* 
il

* 
il

* 
il

* 
il

* 
il

* 
il


~ *****il 
The football team has no plans for any special appearances aside from press conferences, and dinners planned for them with official L iberty Bowl Organization mem­bers. Stark states that "the members of the Notre Dame Club of Memphis will welcome the team upon its ar­rival at the airport." 
Unfortunately, Professor James 
Ward was unable to organize a parade for the Uberty Bowl. "Since the game is on Dec. 29, rather than Jan. 1, we really have little time to work with, and to ask students to dedicate themselves to help with this type of activity is really asking them to give up their time for 
Christmas." 
But then, as Silky says, "Memphis is going to give ya'll so much fun, such a good time, and so many fan­tastic memories as a Christmas present, so come early, and rest a lot before you come." 


Memphis offers Irish fans more than football 
Editor's note: The following story was supplied to The Observer by Stu Lerner, a senior at the University ofIllinois. Lernerpreviewed the city ofMemphis for the Daily Illini before Illinois' Liber~v Bowl appearance against Alabama last year. With Lerner's approval, a few changes were made to give the story a little Irish flavor. 
By STU LERNER 
Editor, Daily lllini 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -The bowl draught is over. On Dec. 29, the Irish will face 13th-ranked Boston College in the first post-season appearance since the 1981 Sugar Bowl. Memphis plays host to the annual gridiron affair, and the city has a tradition of rolling out the red carpet for visitors, at least in one hotel. 
A red carpet ritual is performed twice a day at the Peabody Hotel on Union Avenue in downtown Memphis. Even ifyou are not staying at the Peabody you should stop by there to see the ducks. People always talk about the ducks, referring to a fifty-year-old tradition 
began on a fancy. 
The manager of the hotel and a friend were duck hunting and wondered what would happen if they brought back some ducks and put them in the fountain in the hotel lobby. The ducks have been there ever since. Twice daily at 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. the fiv t e ducks walk down their red carpet either to or from the fountain. 
While at the Peabody, have a look at DUX, one ofthe hotel's nicer restaurants. Though more for the suit-and-tie crowd, the restaurant has a free taco bar for happy hour, along with 2-for-1 drink specials from 4:00-7:00 p.m. Also, look for Christmas season drink specials at the lobby bar. 
While the ducks are in the water, try to go down to Front Street right on the River and take a tour of the Mississippi. Another way to go is to see Mud Island, a monorail ride away from downtown. 
Mud Island offers a restaurant with best view anywhere in town. The Riverfront Terrace overlooks the river, but don't overlook the Terrace's semi-formal restaurant. Only those properly attired need apply. 
Other places on Mud Island include the Harbor Landing and the Yacht Club Bar. Both are reasonably priced and inviting if you are out on the island. Another good reason for wanting to see the island is the Riverwalk. A marvel to behold, the Riverwalk is a half-mile­long scale model of the Mississippi. Every step is equivalent to one mile. You can walk from Cairo, Illinois. to New Orleans and not tire. 
Back on shore some of the most popular eating places include Doebler's Dock and Captain Bilbo's both on Wagner between Beale and Union. Blues Alley has "the last of the Mohicans as far as blues is concerned." Located on Front Street, this place has an autlH:ntic blues band and a 70-year-old lady who can sing and dance you into the ground. 
Since the previous restaurants arc known primarily for their seafood, steak lovers might like the next choices. The Butcher Shop on Front Street lets you pick your steak -from a 14 oz. filet to a 28 oz. t-bone -from a freezer and cook it to your taste. Right, you cook it yourself. Ofcourse ifyou're afraid ofruining your fine filet you can let them cook it for an extra dollar. All steaks are $10.95 with bread salad and baked potato. The place is huge and they really pack 'em i~ during Liberty Bowl week. The best time to come here is before 7 p.m. 
Across the street at the Riverlatch is where some of the Butcher Shop's regulars have followed their favorite chef, Adolf. Ifyou've had a long night you can always go to the Gridiron, open 24-hours a day. 
Unfortunately the most popular rib joint in town will be closed during Liberty Bowl week. Charlk Verga's Rendezvous serves the best ribs anywhere, but the place annually closes from Dec. 24 to Jan. 3. At any other time. to get there you have to enter from the alley, straight down from the Peabody. 
"Overton Square is the Bourbon Street of Memphis," says Silky Sullivan, owner ofthe bar by the samt: name. His bar is the center of Overton Square also known as Midtown, basically the Madison Avenue bars and restaurants. At the very western edge is Bill and Jim's. They provide a large dining room and delicious, huge home­baked rolls. They also serve a creation called Rock Bottom Pic, a delicious combination ofchocolate. vanilla and rum. The bar is inex­pensive and good for students. The drinking age in Tennessee is 19, by the way. 
On the Square, most of the college students go to Silky's to drink. Darnell Smith is "the funnest bartender to watch." Watch him move at Silky's front bar as he prepares the Diver, a now-famous institution in Memphis. The Diver is served in a gallon bucket with plenty of straws. Another drink that is well spoken of is The Bowecvil. This secret concoction comes in a nice glass which you keep. Sullivan also has plenty ofoysters and shrimp at the bar along with gallons of Coor's beer. 
While Silky's is a Memphis tradition, right next door is another well-known name, Wink Martindale's. Martindale is host of televi­sion's "Tic-Tac-Dough" and can be seen mingling with guests at his upscsalc lounge and restaurant. 
Also on the Square is TGlFriday's, a reasonably-priced restaurant and bar (they have nightly specialties) and Gonzale's and Gertrude's for Mexican cuisine. Swenson's is a popular icc cream shop. Bombay Bicycle Club provides a nice atmosphere though it is more upscale locals. 
The nightlife in Memphis also has much to offer. In the eastern part of town, about four miles from Overton Square. is Dooley's and Confetti's. They arc located off of Poplar Avenue in a shopping mall. Confetti's requires that you be 21-ycars-old. You must also pay a cover charge ofa couple dollars. Right next door to them is Doolcv's where most of the local Memphis State University crowd go~s. Tivia's is right down the block from them. "Those arc all meat markets," said one local bar-goer. 
The area ncar the airport has a strip ofhotels and fast food eateries. But most importantly there is Graceland. Graceland is like a town unto itself. Presley's mansion is located on Elvis Presley Boulvard. You'll know you'r~ on the right street be­-cause there won't be any street signs. everybody steals them. 
Across the street from the mansion is t Graceland Center. a shop ping center of Elvis souvenirs. Tours of the house ,arc unimpressive unless you idolize the "King.·· · 
Watch the tricky left-turn lanes and the middle lane on Union Street, which changes direction at different hours of the day. 
Most ofall,.Mcmphians are open and a little bit laid back. They are more than happy to help you. So take the Indiana Toll Road west to 1-57 south of Chicago. Take 1-57 south to I-SS and you'll h'l downtown Memphis. From Notre Dame the trip takes appro:-:' 
-..z</'......3~~e'l-e~ctrffr0ti~--·-'-·~ "l.-'IL..~._.....1i>.,..._,.,_ .. .._ .............. '-' ..... ' ••. '· "-... 1t... .._ .. _, 



.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 


Fire aboard shuttle discovered by NASA 
Assoclated Press 
WACE CENTER, llouston -Span: 
~huttlc: Columbia was on lire as it 
landed l;lst Thursday with six 
astronauts and the European 
'>pan· lab on hoard. hut the accidents 
wen· not noticed until the next day. 
NASA olfidals said yt·sterday. 
The ~huttle. returning from a highly suc<."Cs.,ful I0-day mission, clllght lin· insidt· a rear compart­nJl·nt :~., it approa1:hnl its landing at the dn·t lakt·ht·d runway at Edwards Air hmT Bast·, Calif., oftkials said. and afh-r it came to rest on the run­way. a small explosion ot-curred in a rt·ar compartment. 
NA'>A spokt·sman Steve Neshilt said the !In· on:urrl'll in two devices called the auxiliary power units. Thes<.· tkVkTs hurn a fud called hydrazint· to gull·ratt· dectridty to drivt· the crafi's hydraulic system. The hydraulics are used to move !light control surfaces and to deploy the landing gt·ar. 
Neshitt said tht· tires apparently wen· caus<.·d when leaking hydrazint· touched hot surfat"CS on tht· Al'lls and ignited as the crafi glided into the oxygt·n of tht• atmos­phert·. 
Ht· said technicians wen· unaware 
of the: fire until Friday. when a panel 
was removt·d at the rc:ar of the: 
spacc:craft. The tc:chnicians t<>und a 
compartment hlackened and 
scarred by the nrc: and apparent ex­
plosion. 
Glynn l.unnt·y. the: space shuttle: 
progr:~m dirc:ctor at the Johmon 
Spact· Centt·r, said the: problc:m ap­
pears to be "pretty straightforward," 
hut that a space shuttle: mission 
schedukd for .Janu:JI')' will not he 
tlown until the problem is undn­
stood. 
"It could he sonll'thing as simpl~: 
as !t-aking () ring~. hut Wl' need to 
know why it kaked wht·n it did,'' 
said I.unnt·y. 
l.unnt·y emphasized that at no time wc:rc: the astronats c:ndangert·d hy the: !Ire and explosion. 
Studies indicate that the tire: started ahout two minutc:s hc:forc: Columbia landed late Thursday af­tt·rnoon. The landing was normal. 
Ahout I'i minutes later, aftc:r the API Is had been automatically shut­down, hydrazinc: that was trapped in a control valve: exploded. More fud leaked and burned, but the tire stopped wht.·n the kaked fud was exhausted. 

Wednesday, December 14, 1983 _:._page 4 


Health benefits hurt by employment upturn 
Assoclated Press 
WASIIINGTON -With more peopk returning lO work, Congress appt·ars ks.' indint·d to enact a program to protect the ht·alth ht·ndits of workt·rs who lose their johs. 
"It appt·ars to us th:~t hill is dt·ad as a result of strong opposition in tht• St·rutt· .. The dtTiining unemploy­mt·nt ratt· nationally takes off' pressure ti>r tht· program." said David l{unkd. of tht· l't'llllS)'lvania statt·lohlwingotlkt· in Washington. 
The t\\ o-yt·ar. SI.H billion Senatt· proposal would requirt· private firms to kn·p laid-oil workers on company lwalth plans h>r l)O days af­tn layoff. Afh-r that. fnkrally suh­sidiznl low-coM health insuranct· would he availahlt· fi>r thost· with no othn con-rage Tht· program would avert tilt' need to sdl cars. houses and othn asst·ts to qualit)' ti>r Medicaid. 
Tht· civilian johlt·s., ratt· fdl fmm 
H.H pnn·nt in October to H.-4 per­
~.r...r.r.r...r.r...r...r...r...r..r...r...r...r...r...r.r.r...r~ 
~ STAYING CJP LATE~ ~ CRAMMING FOR ~ ('i EXAMS? ~ 
§ § 
~ THEN STAY CJP ~ § WITH §§ DOMINO'S PIZZA §
§ §
§ § § OPEN § ~ 4PMT04AM ~ ~ 12I 1 4 to 12I 20 ~ 
§ §
§Fast, Free Delivery §
§ §


I ~al I
§ ~ § § ~-· §
§ ~ §
§ §
§ 1835 S. Bend Ave. § ~ Plaza 23 Center ~ 
~ 277-2151 §
l.;cr...r.r...r.r.r...r...r.r...r...r...r...r...r...r...r...r...r...r-0~ 
cent in Novc:mber. It had hit a rc:ces.o;ion-high 10.8 peKent in lkcember 1982. The l.abot Depart­ment reported yesterday thllt all but live of the states showed lower un­employment rates in Octo!Jcr than a year earlic:r. 
1'~· 
Rc:publican Sens. John Heinz and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, who introduced the hill last March, insist they will not give up. 
-------------------------------------~­
Cosimo Hair Design 
18461 St. Rd. 23 277-1875 
Men: Regularly $14.95. Special Price $10 • Women: Regularly $20. Special Price $15 • • with coupon 
for Notre Dame students only 
Co-Designers Only: Men $7 Women $10 


DECEMBER ONLY 
Share A Coupon With A Friend 


r-----------------------,I ONE PERM ATREGULAR PRICE OF $30 I
I I
AND UP-FRIEND RECEIVES EQUAL I VALUE PERM ATHALF PRICE I 
~-----------------------~ 
ONE DESIGNER CUTAND STYLE AT IIREGULAR PRICE OF $19. FRIEND RECEIVES I I EQUAL SERVICE FOR ONLY $12.50 1 

L-----------------------~
Open Wed. and Thurs. Evenings Call For Appointment 234·6767 
NEW HOURS ,.. · 
Mon and Tues-8:30 · 6:00 Fri -8:30-7:00 Wed and Thurs -8:30-8:30 Sat-8:00-4:00 

Hussein in Paris 
upon his arrit'al at Or~)' airport in suburba~l King Hussein of Jordan, lejl, is greeted by Paris, earlier this week. The Jordanian Monarch 1-s French Defense Minister Charles Hemu, right, on a four-day officialr,isit in France. 

~ ...... ~~~~~~. 
f
' 
t t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
r­
•t 
t t 

t t t t t 
t 
t 
t 
t 

Corby's "Christmas Party" 
Drink and Food Specials All Night 
GO IRISH, BEAT BOSTON COLLEGE 
"How to Survive Exam Week" 
Workshop presented by UNO Counseling & Psychological Services Center Dec. 14, Wednesday 6:30-8:30pm Pasquerilla West: Chapel Lounge 


SUDS presents: 

"The Final Study Break" 
Wed. Dec. 14, 9:30-11:00 pm Main Floor LaFortune All Students WelcomeI 
MESSAGE FROM couNSELI N E 239-7793 
As the end ot the semester nears, we understand what it's like to cope with all the various things which you as e student experience. We hope that you will consider using our services as a resource lor coping with these last, hectic days. We are a free, confidential telephone service that oilers professionally taped materials covering a variety of student concerns. Take a look at our list below, you may find something to help you as the semester draws to a close. Call us at 239·7793 
Hours: 4:00 to 10:00pm, Mon.-Thurs. 
TAPE NO TITLE 4.4 Lelunrng lo Accept Yourself 1 Fnendshrp Burldmg 61 Whal•s Therapy & How to Use It 7 Dearrng wrlh Constructrve Crrtrcrsm 83 How to Cope wrtr. a Broken 8 Dealing wrrh Anger Aelalronshrp 9 Understandmg Jealousy and How 85 Understandrng Grtet 
to Deal wrlh II 90 Helprng a Frrenc:J 10 How to Say NO 16\J Early srgns ol an Alcohol Problem 16 Becomrng Open to O&hers 161 Responsrble Decu~rons About 18 Dallng Skrlls Drrnkmg 30 An. rely and Possrble Ways to Cope 402 Sell A.ssertrveness 
Wtlhlt 431 WhaltS Oepressron 32 How to Dear wrtn Lontrness 432 How IO Deal Wtlh DepreSSIOn 3J How to Handle Fears 433 Oepressron as a ltle Style 35 Burldmg seii·Esteem & Confidence 478 Becomrng Independent lrQm Parents 37 Relu.no Exercrses 479 Oealrng wrlh Alcohotrc Parents 38 Coprng wrth Stress 491 Surctdal Cus1s 
J9 Female Se .. Rote 492 Recognrlrng Surc1dal Polenflal Changes and Stress tnOthers 493 Helpmg Someone m a ~urcrdal CrtSis 
Counseline is a completely anonymous 
service offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center ~~University of Notre Dame 
For further information or assistance call C&PSC 239-7336 Counseline: 239-7793 
,' __ 
The Observer Wednesday, December 14, 1983-page 5 

Gas line punctured in Saint Mary's lot 
By MARY JACOBY more room to work. One of the News Staff posts punctured the plastic gas line. The South Bend Fire Department 
An unusual accident punctured a and Northern Indiana Public Serive gas line Monday morning at Saint Co. crews corrected the problem Mary's College. The break occurred within an hour. south ofthe LeMans parking Jot near The Fire Department used a the bus stop, according to Robert 'sniffer,' to detect gas level t s, Foldesi, director of personnel at determining that LeMans and Saint Mary's. Moreau Ha11s would not have to be 
The puncture resulted when steel evacuated. posts used to keep cars off of the grass near the drive between The repair crews have corrected Moreau and LeMans Ha1ls were all problems caused by the movt:'d back to a11ow snow plows puncture. according to Foldt:'si . 
• • . Praise 
continuedfrom page 1 
and Hcaly-Preuss stressed that their editorial philosophies were in­fluenced by Catholicism. not by People of Praise. Healy-Preuss started writing for The Scholastic sevrral months before joining People of Praise. 
Cianther was one ofseveral people 
Healy-Preuss urged to apply for the 
editorship for 1983-84. 
''I suggested to a number of 
people that they apply," she said. "I 
was pleading." She had no interest in 
being succeded by a member of 
People of Praise, she said, just in 
being suceedcd by anyone. 
Cianther, a senior business major 
who worked on his Navy batallion 
yearbook before JOmmg The 
Scholastic, said he joined because 
he was interested in journalism and 
that he knew Healy only well 
enough to say he11o to her at 
meetings. 
Cianther's editorial style has been markedly different than Wood's and Healy-Preuss'. "You don't see many social justice stories this year," he said. 
His main objectives have been to do a humor issue (which comes out this week), a footba11 issue (which will come out in January) and to cover the less well known sports more thoroughly. 
"I always took my relationship with the Lord very seriously," Gan­ther said. "When I came here it al­most bit the dust; a lot ofpartying, a lot of peer pressure pushing the wrong way." 
He went to a party sophomore year that turned out to be a People of Praise party and it turned his life around. 
"It helped solidify the values I thought I was losing." 

A IIIRACLEI 

That's what it was! September 20, 1980 when Harry Oliver's mi~Wculou• 51 yd. field goal beat Michigan 29-27 as time ran out!! It had to beam#raolet Howelse could that headwind suddenly stop an instant before Harry O's kick?!! 
A wild Irish moment! And now you can hear it just as it happent.'dl How? It's on cassette in one of the finest tapes of great Notre Dame moments and heroes you've ever heard! You'll actually hear the immortal Knute Rocllne .. Leon Hart• • AndyPllney .. Joe Ho1111ard 
•• 11 great stories in all! Plus thrilling NO fight songs .. 
All for only $6.95. You cannot lo•e. Not satisfied for any reason? Just return the tape and we'll return your money immedi­ately. We're that sure you'll love it! The re•pon•• ha• hen lanta•tlc •o do,.•t ml•• out/ Order no1111 .. lor g~Wat moment• and hei'Ofl• "In thelrl•h TIWdltlonl" 
Please rush _ --· __cassette(s) of "In the Irish Tradition!" Enclosed is $6.95 per tape plus .50¢ postage/handling. Michigan residents add 4% (.30¢). 
"' v. ~ 

Name -------­Address -----------------­
OR~6:~AI •tk..r 

Q.i J 
NOTRE DAME HEADQUARTERS 


~~· '
Q.ut tV8£LS 
~ No.1 Irish College Bar 
between Chicago and New Orleans Pep Rally Everyday before liberty Bowl MEET YOUR FRIENDS FROM All OVER THE WORLD 
2080 Madison (Overton Square) Memphis, TN 


orbiting Salvut-7 space station, ansu•er questions during a neu•s conference in Moscou•. The pair spent 150 days in space.
and Vladimir Lyakhov, crew members of the 




NBC's Wheel ofFortune provides winners, losers and Disneyland 


Corby's "Christmas Party" 
Drink and Food Specials All Night 
GO IRISH, BEAT BOSTON COLLEGE 
PLANNING A TRIP TO CHICAGO? TAKE THE NEW SOUTH SHORE 
·------------~--------------------------~ 
Comfortabie, fast, convenient service to the heart of downtown Chicago. A one -way ticket is just $7. Save even more money by buying a new 10-ride ticket (valid on all non-rush-hour and weekend trains) which is 20 percent off the regu­lar fare-or ride the South Shore on Sundays when the one-way fare is just $5.60. Weekday trains to Chicago leave South Bend at 7:00 am, 8:55 am, and 8:35pm local time. 
The next two Saturdays, December 10 and 17, an extra train has been added departing South Bend at 9:35 am. Other trains on Saturdays de­part at 7:40am, 11:30 am, 4:40pm, and 7:35pm. On both Saturday and Sunday, train departures 
1 from Chicago are at 12:15 pm, 3:58 pm, and 
I 5:58pm Chicago time. For more information call 1233-3111 or 1-923-1116(Mon-Fri). 
·---------------------------------------· 
They've had problems in the past with people giving away answers. so I guess it's a good thing." 
"The afternoon was spent going over rules and regulations, what to do and what not to do, and what to expect," Miranda said. "Then we had to sign a document which stated that ifwe broke the rules, they could take our prizes away." 
"I didn't know what to expect, so nothing really surprised me," said Nelson. "Everyone was very frknd­Iy, and people went out of their way to be friendly." 
Miranda added, "I tried not to think about the show and what to expect, or what would happen. I wasn't nervous until I got on the plane." Although Collegiate \X'cek has al· 
ready  been  aired.  Slattny  can  be  
St>en in  february  on  the  regular  
show.  

While in Calit(>rnia the t<>ur stayed in the homes of Notre Dame alumni. 
Nelson said. "It was disappointing in a way because I didn't win much. but the experience was worth it. All in all, I had fun." 
Asked if she would appear on a gameshow again. Miranda replied. "Definitely. It was a once in a lifetime thing. hut I'd do it again." 
... Observer 
continued/rom page 1 
setting up a petty cash allotment of approximately S1,000 for the paper. allowing staff members to be con­sidered as exceptions to the finan­cial aid policy, and allowing the t 'nit Rudgct SyMem to act as an account· ing function t<>r The Ohse11•er. 
Dziedzic said, howcvn. that lies­
burgh did not respond to several 
points in the Ohserz•er plan. 
Among the areas of contention, according to Dziedzic. arc the salaries of full-time employt:'es. tht· selection of the arbitration board and budget unit director (the per­son who will approve the Ohseruer budget), the manner of raising and lowt·ring student fees. and the right of the paper to take itself off of the l!niversity budget system. 
Hesburgh could not be reached for further comment. 
The issue may not be resolved before Christmas but that will probably not hinder the collection of next semester's student fees for the paper by the University, Dzied­zic said. 
ByMYCHALSCHULZ 
News Staff 
Notre Dame freshman Paula Miranda won SS,OOO on NBC's Wheel of Fortune and law student Jim Slattery won S1200 and a swim­mingpool. 
They rolled back to Notre Dame last week with fellow students Jack McCormick and Fred Nelson. who weren't so lucky, after a weekend of taping and a visit to Disney Land. 
The taping took all day on Satur­day, Dec. 3. All five shows were 
continuedfrompage 1 
Union members in the BillyJoel tick­et lottery. "People have a reason to be mad," he commented. Later. he added. "the fact that people didn't have to wait in line at the lottery needs attention."' 
Tucker distributed information to the hall presidents about the upcom­ing student government election. He said, "This is so people are think­ing about the elections. The more grassroots talk we have. the more taped that day and none of the con­testants knew which show they would be in until I'; minutes before hand. 

"That kept me nervous the whole time," said Nelson. 
The one thing that none of the contestants were prepared for was the tight security. "You couldn't talk to anybody, and when you went to the bathroom you had to have an es­cort," stated Nelson. This also surprised Miranda, who added,"You could not even have eye contact with anyone in the audience. 
• • .HPC 
candidates we have. We want to avoid what happened a few years ago when we had to recruit a stu­dent senator candidate from one of the disticts." The first meeting for candidates will be held on Jan. ~0. Elections will be held on Feb. 14. 
Lyons Hall President Suzy Joyce thanked everyone involved in the raffic of two S2 '; pizza gift certif­icates held last week. Tht· raffle raised $270 for the Child Abuse and Neglect Coordinating Organization. 
The Observer Wednesday, December 14, 1983-page 6 

APPhoiO 

1bisgraphic locates the bombingsat U.S. andFrench embassies and lists the othersites U'here explosions took place Monday. See article on page I. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan's commission on drunken driving proposed yesterday that Congress set a minimum legal drink­ing age of21 and cut offfederal high­way funds to any state that fuils to enforce the standard. 
The panel, presenting its repon to Reagan at the White House after 18 months ofstudy, also calls for a man­datory 90-day suspension of a driver's license on the first convic­tion of drunken driving, plus either 100 hours ofcommunity service or a minimum of48 hours in jail. 
In addition, the commiSSIOn urged elimination ofplea bargaining in drunken driving cases and es­tablishing a "presumptive" breath test standard for drunken driving suspects. Aperson with 0.08 alcohol concentration would be presumed to be driving under the influence, and would be found illegally drunk if tests showed a concentration of 0.10. 



American ships bombard Syrians; Israeli vessels shell Palestinians 
Associated Press 
BEIRIIT, I.cbanon -American warships bombarded an anti-aircraft position in tht· Syrian-controlled Lt:banesc mountains yesterday after two I1.S. Navy jets were fired on during a reconnaissance mission. 
Pt·ntagon officials in Washington said the cruiser Ticonderoga and the tkstroyt·r Tatnall hurkd shells from S-inch guns at an anti-aircraft posi­tion in tnrority held by pro-Syrian militiamt·n. But the Syrian army t·ommand in DamaSl·us said Syrian positions were the targets of "prt·nwditatt·d aggression" by the llnitt·d States. 
In other tkvelopmt·nts: 
-1n northnn Lc.·banon, Isradi 
gunboats shdk-d Yasscr Arafat's PLO 
loyalists trappt·d in Tripoli. 
-Snipt-rs in w~st Beirut rak~d a Frcnd1 pt:at.Tkeeping patrol with machine-gun fire during the morn­ing. killing onl· paratrooper. An Is­lamic group daimed responsibility for tlw ambush. 
-A bomh blast wounded two Is­radi soldkrs as their convoy was driving into Sidon, Lebanon, the ls­radi military command said. 
-Bombs exploded after sun­down at two Christian churches in largdy Mosh:m \\TSt Beirut. Police 
~ 
~  CRAMMING FOR  ~  
~  EXAMS?  ~  
~I  THEN STAY UP WITH  § ~  

§ DOMINO'S PIZZA §
I
OPEN 

4PMT04AM 
12I 14 to 12I 20 
I

Fast, Free Delivery 


1835 S. Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
277-2151 

sources said three people were injured at one ofthe churches. 
As the violence escalated, Presi­dent Amin Gemayel scrapped plans to weld Lebanon's warring factions into a coalition Cabinet. 
In Washington, officials said the Ticonderoga and the Tatnall fired a total of 3S, 70-pound shells at Druse­held territory overlooking Beirut. The Druse are aligned with the Syrians in the Lebanese fighting and some Druse fighters operate from Syrian-hdd territory. 
The retaliation came after two Navy f-I4s drew at least two surface-to-air missiles and "multiple rounds" of anti-aircraft fire from an area about 12 miles from the coast, tht· officials said. 

Commission proposes uniform age 
................................. 
: Over Christm?s, '-tr~t-~_SQ,(Tlething for the : : SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL : : WRITING CONTEST : 
: ~=zCJ : 
: Open to all grad and undergrads : : Any type of writing accepted + 
+ Submit by Feb. 6 to Student Union Office : 
In Damascus, the Syrian army said in a communique: "at 3:17 p.m. ( 8:17a.m. EST), two American F-14s flew over our positions in the upper Metn (central Lebanon) area. Our air defenses confronted them and forced them to fly back towards the sea. 
The Syrians have vowed to fire on 
U.S. jets whenever they fly over their positions anywhere in Lebanon. U.S. fighter-bombers first struck Syrian positions in central Lebanon on Dec. 4 after two F-14s were fired on during reconnaissance flights. 
The Syrians shot down two of the attacking jets. One American flier was killed and another captured by Syria. 

................................. 
The proposal for enforcing a na­tional minimum drinking ag~ of 21 immediately ran into trouble at the White House and elsewhere in the Reagan administration. 
Presidential spokesman Larry Speakes said, "We strongly suppon tis recommendation but think it is a state action that should be taken, not a federal action." 
Jim Burnett, chairman of the Na­tional Transponation Safety Board, who has campaigned in state capitols across the country for a legal drinking age of 21 , said the proposal withholding of federal highway funds for non-complying states would needlessly complicate the issue. 
The tactic proposed by the com­mission is similar to the one Congress used in 1974 to set a na­tional speed limit of 55 miles per hour. As a presidential candidate in 1980, Reagan and the Republican platform on which he ran urged repeal of the speed limit law, but he never actually proposed repeal legislation. 
In Phoenix, Gov. Bruce Babbitt of Arizona said through a spokesman that he suppons raising his state's legal drinking age from 19 to 21 but believes "the threat of cutting off funds is a poor way of doing busi­ness." 
After hearings in September, the 32-member commission headed by former Transportation Secretary John A. Volpe concluded that con­gressional action was needed be­cause only thr~e state legislatures had heeded its call one year ago to adopt a 21-year legal drinking age for wine, beer and liquor. 
So far, 19 states have enacted laws setting a minimum drinking age of 
21. A recent government repon, however, said couns often are lax in enforcing those laws. 
The panel said Congress should 
provide that any state failingto abide 
by the national standard would have 
federal financing of its intestate 
highway repair projects disap­
proved by the transponation 
secretary. 

"There is evidence ofa direct cor­
relation between the minimum 
drinking age and alcohol-related 
crashes among the age groups af­
fected," the panel said. 

Reagan, in 'accepting the repon, did not comment on any of the panel's recommendations. He did say that "for those between the ages of 16 and 24, alcohol-related crashes represent the leading cause of death." 
The National Safety Council has cited an eight-state study by the federal government and state sur­veys in Michigan and Illinois as evidence that aising the drinking age would have a dramatic effect on the number ofauto accidents and deaths among young people. 
The commission recommended "mandatory substantial minimum fines" for all drivers convicted 
SPECIAL RATES AVAILABLE FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK 
Call the airport 234-3712 for Information 
I 
See us for all ofyour car relatecl neect.. 
WHERE WtfiiERS lENT. 
"RR:ATZ AINTS ~liMO O'nfP,_CARS 

The Perfect Christmas Gift Notre Dame Glasses Commemorating the 1983 Season (Special Liberty Bowl Glass included). Cheaper by the dozen $25 plus tax 
\• \\h\'1.'\\'l/. : ,.,,_ !1JP.. ,·, .. ; ~: ·. 'J; •·'':.· ., "I i!) 1'•.1·, .:Jfli!l. ' ,.0')1 ­
'fJC•III'fiJ .·J 1>111. 
_.,···IJJil{[fll • ! ,., • 
51 ~:~:Q,~.~~.w~,:y N,J~:·:,. Sou_t_tl B~ndJ_In.___ 
272-6600 
..... 
ViewP-~·_O__l_._n__t___________
w_e_d_ne_sd_ay_,_o_ec_e_m_b_e_r-14_,_19_8_3--p-ag_e_7_ 

Discriminatory problems continue in South Africa 
On Tuesday, Nov. I whites in the Republic of South Africa voted in favor of a new con­stitution -new. but not any different with respect to the principles ofapartheid which in their modern form have been a reality in South African social and political life since 
1948. 
The constitution will have a significant ef­fect on the lives of all groups in South Africa. For the extreme right wing of white politics, 
Laura Curliss 
Quest column 

the fact that two other ethnic groups, Coloureds (people of mixed race) and Asians. will each have a chamber in the new Parlia­ment, is enough to let the specter of integra­tion. out of their extremist "closet of anxittics." 
The Coloureds and the Asians, who will 
have 80 and -!0 seats respectively in their 
separate chambers (compared with 166 in the 
whii)C assembly) do not know how much in­
fluence they will have in molding legislation, 
but their influence is not likely to he great. 
Given this distribution of seats and the fact that a separate, white-controlled body, the President's Council. has the tlnal say ifany dis­agreement arises between the ethnic houses on pan-South African issues (economic policy and national security). the Coloureds and Asians clearly have an inferior status. 
On the positive side, this constitution does 


P. 0. BoxQ 
Rats! It's not the students' fault 
DearEditor: 
The Dec. 9 issue of The Observer featured an evaluation of the food sales in each of the dorms. I was shocked to hear that my dorm, Stanford Hall, is infested with ants and roaches. But I guess Stanford is lucky because, according to the report, three other dorms have rodent infestation. 
Are these the same dorms that are so elo­quently described in the pamphlet distributed to incoming freshmen when they must select a dorm? 
Granted, some ofthe food sales' conditions are less than sterile, but many ofthe violations are nothing that an afternoon with a bucket of soapy water wouldn't solve. But what can the students do about rodent infestation in their dorm? There seems to be some neglect by the administration. 
Funher, this evidence of mouse infestation will be used against food sales operations and, ultimately, the student body. Closing food sales would not exterminate these mice. 
So before condemning food sales, how about giving the students a chance to clean up their act? And if the administration provides dorms without rodent infestation then I'm sure we'll see a marked improvement in the food sales' conditions. 
Pat Collins 
provide a forum for the C.oloureds and Asians to voice their opinion and legistate on "safe" issues pertaining to their own ethnic group. This is seen by Afrikaner voters as a major con­cession. 
How might the Coloureds and Asians view this constitution? Apartheid legislation has gradually taken away privileges from these groups. For example, Coloureds lost their rights to vote for representatives in the Cape Town parliament. The Group Areas Act of 1956 applied apartheid ideology more rigorously in the cities. The letter resulted in the bitter up rooting of Coloured com­munities that had been living in white areas for years. 
Even though they will now elect representatives to sit in their own chambers, the bitter history of enforcing apartheid on these two groups is not likely to create a great deal ofoptimism with the new structures. 
And what of South Africa's Z 1 million blacks? These people are legally required to obtain passes to even enter the "white" areas of South Africa. Only 13 percent of the land has been designated as black homeland 
This means that blacks are considered 
foreigners in 87 percent of South Africa (the 
area occupied by the country's 'i million 
whites). The other 13 percent of the country 
is divided into several mini-states called Ban­
tustans (homelands). Blacks must be satisfied 
with the right to vote in these mini-state 
governments for they have no part in the new 
constitution. For this reason and others, the South African Bishops Conference has con­demned the new constitution. 

Many think the only effective way to effect a change is increased guerrilla violence and the eventual overthrow of the government, even if it takes 30 years. 
Supposing that a well-equipped, well­trained and highly organized South African military force could he defeated by a guerrilla movement, what kinJ) of society W('Uld be reborn from such violence? Would the whites be given a proportionately equal voice in government~ Would r~ black majority be able to integrate all the races into society after a violent revolution? 
If such a South Africa would feed on hate as 
much as the present one feeds on fear, then 
integration, much less a genuine love ofneigh­
bor. has little chance of becoming the reality. 
The anger that many blacks feet could make 
this guerrilla struggle a success, hut it might 
lead to a countervailing black racism. 
In fact, black racism has no historic roots in the black consciousness movements in South Africa. A non-racial system ofgovernment was the major goal for the African National Congress from its formation in 191 Z to its ban­ning in 1960. To embrace any kind of racist hate would have been to surrender to the principles of apartheid and thus to lose their moral argument which gave the movement the hope for an integrated South Africa. 
The injustice systematized in South Africa is certainly abominable, and all Christians and humanists around the world should be active­
ly pressuring the South African government to 
respect the rights ofall its people. Moreover. 
this new constitution can only he seen as one 
more abomination to the Africans. 
Realistkally, South Africa has become a na­tional security state and has. so far, eliminated all anti-apartheid threats from any political group in the country. The underbelly ofSouth Africa lies in its dependency_ upon black labor, Western capital and Western markets. If any pressure toward positive, peacdul change can be applied. it will have to he helped by the West. 
Five hundred American corporations invest in South Africa. Given our own history of upholding, in principle. the equality of all people, even ifour practice is sometimes wan­ting, we should try to support these ideab hy applying economk pressures. 
One way to start would he to ban all further investment in the apartheid system. Or private companies and concerns. like our l 'ni­versity, could voluntarily do this. 
As students we can show our support for peaceful integration and respect for the dig­nity ofall people in South Africa by doing what we try to do best at the time in our lives ­making the effort to learn more about the socio-politkal situation in that country. Only then can we read about this new constitution and realize that it is a perpetuation of apart­heid principles. It makes Africans foreigners in the land they have occupied for thousands of years before the first Dutch farmers landed at the Cape in 16'iZ. 

Editorial Views: A portfolio of cartoons 
I OOtH BELIEVE IN FAIRIES 
~~

f.,,.
I''-s.-"; ;t· 1 
r· ~ , 

WJ AlREADY BE A~~NlR IN Til u.~ m~R~ ~lW«~HOOSt II 
LIKE TED AND KA~ SIM~NS Of Clll'll~K, ILliNOiS/ 


0. 
0. 
cu 
(/) 
E 
0 

------------t: 
(/) 
u 
..c:: 

a. 
cu
.._ 
..... 
" 
Q)::.. ..... Q) (I) .0 0 


P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Obsert•er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l"ni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. l 'nsigned editorials represent the opinon of a majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commemaries. letters, and the Inside Column present the views qJ their authors. Column space isavailable to all members ofthe community. and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EditorialBoard 

Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor.:........................................ Scott Bower 
Department Managers 
Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen Controller...............................................Alex Szilvas Advertising Manager .........................jeanie Poole Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams 
FoundedNovember 3, 1966 




Showcase 
Wednesday, December 1 4, 198.3 -page 8 
Service organizations and social awareness groups prosper: 

Mark Boyle volunteers his time a/the Northern Indiana State Hospital. 
Solving a weighty problem 
by Judith Martin 
D
ear Mis.o; Manners -This is a "heavy" problem: What does one say or do to prevent well-loved but overwc:ight friends and rdatives from crushing one's furniture? Must one sit by with a brave hut sickly smile and try to make light conversation while watching ont·'s furniturt· ht"Come ht·nt and mutilated hy their "too, too solid tksh"? 
<>rw cannot hut disagree with one's spouse who, on beholding his favoritt· with the chair with the newly defunct springs, advocated st·nding a kttt·r starting out "Dear FatS(>," and ending with a plea to lose wdght before visiting again. 
Although one does not wish to hurt the feelings ofone's elep­hantine friends. one would like to he able to protect one's furniture from mort· t·xtensive damage. 
(;enlle Reader -Please get a grip on your.o;t·lf Miss Manners can undnMaml your going to pieces every time you contemplate the springs striking whacky post·s in the chair, but you must rt·memher that wdl-brnl pt·opk gt·t angry at individuals, not classes ofpeople. We hatt· our friends because they break our chairs, not because oii.· thdr shapt·s. races, rdigions or creeds ( unles.o; thc:ir creeds include not caring about material objects that belong to us). 
Y t·s. ther:e is a way to prote<.·t your furniture. Get a good, friendly grip on your frknd as ht· arrives, and steer him away from delicate chairs to an indestructible ont· by saying,"You'll he more com­ti>rtabk here -that chair is too fragile." 
W<.· never send nasty letters to well-loved friends, but the one you should compost· and not st·nd should say,"Gec, thanks for busting my furniture," not "lkar Elephant-fdet'." 
I )ear/11issManners -St·vt·ral monthsago. I hostt·d a dinner party for I 0: During the course of the cvt·ning, one individual had too mud1 wine to drink and spt·nt a very audible 10 minutes in the bathroom paying pt·nann·. 
This qJiS(>de halted convt·rsation among my other guests with a rapidity which made my palms damp. When I inquin·d if I could bt· of any assistance. anothn gut·st was rt·questt·d, and their departure soon followed. 
In the days and months that followed, this pcrS(>n neither apologized nor allmkd to this incident and, largely as a n·sult ofthis, fadnl from my cirde of friends. My fi.·ding at the time was that somt·om· who was unahk to handle himsdfbettt·r in a S(Jcial situa­tion was mort· a liabilitY than an asset. 
My questions art·: W~s an apology from this guest appropriate? Was I ridiculously Muffy or unn·asonahk to t·xpt·ct one? Was it, in facl. my obligation to inquire about his condition? Most ofall. Miss Mannas. I don't want to he a hopt·less prig about all ofthis. 
Gentle RetU/er -In that cao;t·, you must bt· a little more charitable in your assumptions. As link enthusiasm as Mis.o; Mannt-rs hao; for alignin).: hnsdfwith that pason making a mcs.o; in your bathroom, she is bound to point out that his was not the only inadvertant S(Jcial aror of the en·ning. 
In thest· crude days ofblurting outevt·rything, so to speak, people haVl' golien out of the habit of practicing S(Jcial oblivion. When somt·ont· leaves the room at a dinnt·r party. it is the obligation ofall to maintain tht· soda! tlnion that no one is spt"Culating about where ht· is going or what he is doing. Silting around in sikncc.listt·ning 10 somt·om·throw up, is not in the lx·st oftaste. Only ifthe pt·rson's be­havior htTomt·s visibly dramatic may you say. 'Tm afraid you're not wdl -would you like to lk down? Or may I have somcont· sec you 
hon~t·r' 
Tht· politt· thing now is to treat it a' a minor soda! an:idt·nt long sinn· ti>rgollen. If you rt·ally want to he gracious, you will invite him again with no rekrence at all to what happent·d. which will relieve him considerably. Miss Manners' guess is that he will then behave pcrkctly. Ifnot. at kast you will know that last time was no accident. 



Awareness and 
Spirit is central to CILA 
by Tracy Oakes 
features staffwriter 
A
s social ethics and humanity arc receiving increao;ed attention in the world today, more and more people arc taking action. One such organization that promotes action is (]LA. the Community for the Inter­national Lay Apostalate. CIIA is an international organization ti.mction­ing in the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's community providing students with the opportunity to participate in services promulgating social justice. 
Tim Murphy, a senior engineering major in Morisscy Hall, currently presides as chairman ofthe ND/SMC chapter ofCILA. According to 

Photos by Murphy, CILA members are com­mitted to promoting social justice Steve Jeiger through educational and com­·munity service projects. Spiritual 


Circle of service 
by Tracy Oakes 
features staffwriter 
C
laiming over 800 chapters worldwide, Circle K Interna­tional is the one ofthe world's lar­gest service organizations. The first Circle K dub was established in 1947, under the sponSt>rship of Kiwanis International, an organiza­tion of adult males devoted to service, on the Carthage College campus in Illinois. Since then, the number ofclubs ha~ expanded in conjunction with the Kiwanis Club's influence. Circle K cmphao;izt·s leadership-training, ethical practic'cs, and most importantly, perStmal involvement in today's so­cial and environmental problems. 
Since its reactivation in 1981, the Notre Dame chapter ofCircle K ha~ maintained a high degree ofinvolve­ment in volunteer projects and in various fund drives in the area. Club president, Wcs Gainey, a senior in Flanner Ifall, hao; led club members in promotion ofthe objectives of Circle K Examples ofthe club's 
community service include its tutor­ing ofchildren at La Casa, a com­munity help center in South Bend, and visiting and assisting residents of DuComb Correctional Facility, an institution for perS(lllS involved in minor criminal offenses. 
On campus, Circle K's "golf-cart express," ferries temporarily or per­manently disabled students he­tween classes and dorms. Earlier this year. the club sponsored a 24-hour bao;kctball relay for the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Teams from across campus participated in this event and donated a sum of money to the cause. By the time the final whistle blew both the gold and blue teams' scores were in the hundreds and Circle K had raised a notable amount for MDA. La~t year Circle K sponSt>red the "Quarter Mile of 
Quarters." The proceeds once again went to MDA. The club also par­ticipated in a snow St>ftball game and a walkathon for the March of Dimes. 
For anyone interested in member­ship in the NO chapter ofCircle K, all meetings are held on Wednesday evenings at 6: IS in the Center for So­cial Concerns. 
support is the overriding theme throughout the organization. CIIA's goals include intl'grating thdr unique expt·ricnces -gained through service projects -with academic lift· on campus. 

Among the communitu service projects presently in operation are the Home Visitation Program, in which students volunteer their time to visit and offer companionship 10 dderly residents Jiving alone in )• housing projects in the South Bend area; the Justice and Peace Center which focuses on offering aid and in­formation to the poor through justice education; Corvilla House, a home for disabled children and adults; El Campito, a children's day care center; and Portage Manor, a residential facility for the elderly. Club members all participate in ef­forts to teach, care for, and entertain the individuals ofthese institutions. 
CILA aiSt> provides funds for stu­dents who wish to engage in sum­mer service projects abroad. Mexico, Appalachia, Canada, and California are a few ofthe locations oftheses projects. Atentative plan ofCIIA is to instituc Saint Hedwigs Outreach program. Saint Hedwigs would stress work et­hics to underprivileged children. 
Anyone desiring more informa­tion about CILA should contact Tim Murphy at 283-3657. 
l 

J l 



-

------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, December 14, 1983 -page 9 
-----~~-~~,ti.~ l:"IIIIIJI''-------r~-------------------­


Adopted at the age of 103 
by Margaret McCabe 
features staffwriter 
I
n the midst ofstudying, test­taking, paper-writing and student activities it seems as though this life in the fast lane never slows down. However, about 45 students at Saint Mary's know a slower pace oflife does exist right on their own campus. These students have become acquainted with many of the retired sisters ofthe Holy Cross 
A Notre Dame student enjoys the atmosphere of the Center for who live on campus, by partaking in the "Adopt-a-Nun" program.
Social Concerns, headquarters for most campus service organizations. 
I Any interested student is able to 
volunteer at the beginning ofthe year. Soon after, each is assigned the 
name ofone ofthe sisters. The stu­
dents then meet their adopted nuns 
and visit whenever possible. This 
year about 125 students signed up 
for the program initially, on Ac­
tivities Night. Only 45 of these, 
however, have remained involved. 
This fact is no disappointment to the program's coordinator Elaine Suess. "We always have a lot ofsign­ups at first. I'm thrilled that 45 of 
,~A meal skipped at ND provides many in other places 
.------------------------------­

by Diane J;mard 
features staff writer 
A
re you aware that more than one billion people in the world are undernourished; that 15 to 20 mil­lion people die each year ofhunger­related causes; that the world currently spends an average of 5 50 billion dollars a year producing, buying, and selling military weapons? 
The World Hunger Coalition is a 
group ofNotre Dame students 
whose main objectives include 
informing other members ofthe 
Notre Dame community about just 
such facts. Among the Coalition's 
other goals are the provision of 
direct financial aid to those in need 
and the encouragement ofpersonal and spiritual growth. The Coalition attempts to achieve these goals through different educational media such as speakers, films and articles, interaction with the poor in the South Bend area, celebration of Masses, and most visibly, the Wed­nesday fasting program. 
The fasting program involves over 800 students who have pledged to abstain from lunch in the dining halls 11 times per semester. The dining halls in turn donate S 1 per person for each day offasting. The entire sum ofmoney accumulated, approximately $9,000, is used to help fund agencies that educate the poor with the intent ofmaking them self-sufficient. 
The Food Waste Survey was an­other effort of the Coalition to raise the consciousness ofND students. On October 6, Coalition members stood at the tray return line and counted the items offood which had not been eaten. The final results of the survey estimated that over 105 gallons offood are wasted every day in the South Dining Hall alone. 
The World Hunger Coalition was formed on September 24, 1974 by Father Don McNeill and a group of students as a result ofa World Food Conference in Rome. Today, con­cerned students are continuing to promote more social concern about the problem ofworld hunger and to provide direct relieffor the needy. 
For further information contact Carol Frederick at 283-7933. 

A siren wailing in the night, police 1'1lights flashing in the dark, twisted metal and broken glass littering the highway, a crushed body being lifted from the wreckage of an automobile; a summer's worth ofsimilar images were enough to an­ger Tom Selvaggi, a junior microbiology major into action. Af­
ter working in the emergency room 
ofan area hospital during the sum­
mer months following his freshman 
year, Selvaggi returned to school 
determined to do something to 
heighten the public awareness ofthe 
problem ofdrunk drivers. 
He researched the question of alcohol-related accidents, and was amazed at the statistics he dis­covered: over 26,000 people die at the hands ofdrunk drivers a year; with thousands more injured; over 50 percent ofall highway accidents are alcohol-related; one out of 10 people, on the average, who pass you on the road during the weekend could be drunk. Additionally, he heard accounts ofdrunk drivers still being allowed to drive after having alcohol-related accidents. Selvaggi talked to his hall rector, Fr. David Garrick, about a proper response to the problem. Inspired by the counseling ofGarrick and Professor William McGlinn, Selvaggi founded Students Against Drunk T Drivers (SADD). 
With the idea ofa student or­
ganization in mind, and encouraged 
by the support ofhis advisors, Sel­
vaggi scheduled an organizational 
meeting. Although only three 
people attended the first meeting, 
~tensive press coverage prompted 
a second meeting, with a much Jar· 
ger turnout. Selvaggi learned first­
hand the problems ofcreating and 
them have really gotten into it." 
"It's gotten bigger and better," according to Suess, "two years ago we had very few involved and last year we had 30." 
Evidently, the program cannot stand too much growth. There are only 40 retired sisters who.have agreed to be adopted (a few have been adopted twice, as it is). The sis­ters range in age from 52 to 103 and many are immobile. 
While "Adopt-a-Nun" is not a group oriented volunteer service, there are a few group activities being planned. "It's unbelievable the way they (the sisters) follow Notre Dame sports," says Suess. "We'd like to plan a mini pep rally for them in the near future and maybe invite some team players." 
One of the sisters' favorite ac­tivities is Bingo. They have already had one Bingo party complete with refreshments and prizes on Nov. 12. The group would like to schedule two or three such parties next semester. 
The general response from both the adopters and the adoptees seems positive. According to Sr. Noel who assists in "Adopt-a-Nun," the sisters look foward to the visits. "On special occasions, some girls bring flowers or plants and the sisters just love them." 


Some students take a different route 
by Doug Murphy 
•=--1 i""UJ.jJ:

features staffwrift!r ­
developing a new service organiza­tion. 
"When I got the response that I did, I had to settle on some realistic goals that would help the organiza­tion to heighten public awareness of the problem ofdrunk drivers,"he recalled. 
He decided to put out a pamphlet containing information about the problem. Workngfeverishly before the Christmas vacation that year, Sel­vaggi managed to assemble and dis­tribute just such a pamphlet to students on campus with the help of his supporters. 
Since the organization's slow beginnings, Selvaggi has embarked on new, more ambitious projects. SADD has distributed posters ofthe Michana Coalition on Alcohol and Other Drugs on campus, and has aided other area organizatons, all towards the goal ofhelping to develop healthier attitudes among students toward drinking and driving. 
SADD's latest project involves the Court Administered Alcohol Program ( CAAP) in South Bend. Working with various other or­ganizations, SADD will seek toed­ucate those in the program about the laws and effects ofdrunk driving. 
Selvaggi seeks to channel the drive and emotion that the issue creates, into positive measures that affej::t students. He views SADD primarily as a public awareness group working towards this end. "It's a group, run by students, yet going beyond the campus boun­daries. In our area, we want to be educating all ages capable ofdrunk driving." 
"We're seeking to highlight the 
tough laws that are out there to hin­der drunk drivers, but at the same time, let people know that help is available if they need it. Drunk drivers are nor 'bad people' per se. They need a positive, rather than a simply punative, response. But com­passion for those who put others' lives in danger by their actions must be balanced against excusing their actions. With this, l hope SADD can help." 
In the future, Selvaggi plans to develop a high school visitation program, issue phamphlets at high­risk travel times, as well as par­ticipate in the CAAP."I want to be able to relate individual incidents, and to bring the emotions ofthe situation, instead of just using statis­tics." 
Selvaggi welcomes any help. Anyone willing to speak on the sub­je t ct at area high schools, or relate personal incidents to highlight the situation for others are encouraged. Anonymity will be respected. "I feel that people on our level are most ef­fective with high school students, since we were so recently one of them. High school's the place where people develop their habits ofdrink­ing. If we address the problem there, maybe we'll affect more people." 
SADD is very much the inspiration ofTom Selvaggi; however. it is not his organization. "I'm going to Rome next semester, but I'll be leaving a good structure in place. After all, this issue is so much bigger than any one ofus. Hopefully, time will see SADD successfully serve the public to make them aware ofthe problem of drunk drivers," said Selaggi. 
Created out ofthe desire to do something positive, SADD has emerged, serving the campus and the community in heightening awareness ofthe drunk driving problem. SADD is on its way. 
q,. ·W!•P*N*•b4 .Sd¥* ¥6 8 iF '"'?IM'N#f.N 8! 4§!! ¥ s ..,;;; ·+ &F·tfi o4-f Ail &¥ 




-One-Man Offense 
Eagle quarterback has put Boston College on list of powers almost singlehandedly 
Doug Flutie and Allen Pinkett are


The Catholic Super Bowl: 
main characters in Liberty Bowl 
Doug Flutie 
B.C. quarterback 

ByJOHN GILL 
and MICHAEL ROLFES 
The Boston Colkgc Hdghts 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. -It will be remem­bered as The Day-the day that turned around the fortunes ofBoston College football. 
Absorbing a 38-0 pasting at the hands ofPenn State, disgusted Eagle coach jack Bicknell looked down his bench in desperation for something. Anything at all. 
In a devil-may-care, got-nothing-to-lose 
move, Bicknell put in his fourth-string quarter­
back, a S-9 freshman who had never called a col­
legiate signal, a local boy who was given the last 
scholarship because nobody else would take it. 
His name was Doug Flutie. 
Rolling 0ut of the pocket more often than 
not. Flu tie passed for one touchdown and 
moved the ball for more yardage than the other 
helmsmen had done in more than three quar­
ters. 
Two weeks later, Flutie eluded a fierce 
defensive rush, throwing from all trajectories 
and angles for 347 yards against then-No. I Pitt. 
BC lost to the Panthers, 29-24, but found the 
savior who would return the Eagles to national 
prominence after forty long years of 
mediocrity. · 
On Dec. 29, Flutie will lead his Eagles to the 
Liberty Bowl against one-point underdog Notre 
Dame in what Eastern sportswriters are build­
ing up as the 'Vatican Bowl.' 
"Everyone admires Notre Dame," said Flutie. "Even as a little kid, you sense the tradition and the legend almost. It's certainly a thrill." 
Over the last two years, Flu tie has established 
himslefas the best player in New England since 
Albie Booth stomped around the hallowed 
grounds ofYale more than forty years ago. He 
recently year he placed fourth. 
Penn State has been Flutie's favorite victim ­the juniorfrom Natick has thrown for 900 yards against the Nittany Lions, including 520 last year. This year's performance was more satisfy­ing, though, because BC toppled their Eastern rivals for the first time ever, 27-1 7. 
"He's a one man offense out there," said Penn State coachjoe Paterno. "He just goesout there and goes bang-bang-boom, six points." 
Bicknell and Flutie hope Notre Dame will 

By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
,\ports Writer 
How things change. 

Before 1969, when Notre Dame broke its 42-year policy ofno bowl games, the University was criticized for having a policy of not accepting bowl invitations. 
Now in 1983, Notre Dame is once again beingcriticized greatly for its bowl policy -this time for accepting an in­vitation to a bowl. 
Criticism and cynicism has run rampant on campus and around the nation ever since the 6-5 Notre Dame football team accepted the Dec. 29 Liberty Bowl offer to play against 9·2 and No. 13-ranked Boston College. 
"I'm not worried about it," says Notre Dame Head Coach Gerry Faust. "The way I look at it is that, if the Administra­tion and athletic board made the commitment to go, and if the players want to go, then why not? 
"It is going to give the young men a great educational ex­perience, it gives the seniors the opportunity to go out with a deserving win, and it's a tremendous challenge for all involved, which is great. In life you have to accept the challenges rather than back down from them." 
In essence, it promises to be one of the more exciting and interesting bowl matchups this year. Besides matching two Catholic and highly-accredited academic institutions, it showcases perhaps the greatest "Think Small" campaign since Volkswagon came to America. Though Boston Col­lege quarterback Doug Flutie and Notre Dame tailback Al­len Pinkett both stand at S-9, they are head and shoulders above the crowd in college football when it comes to displaying their athletic ability on the football field. 
Finally, this is a springboard or program-building oppor­tunity for for both teams. In Boston College's case, it's a chance to win its first bowl game in 42 years and continue its tremendous rise from the ashes ofan 0-11 season in 1978. The last and only time the Eagles won a bowl was in Frank Leahy's final season at Boston College in 1940. Leahy took over in 1941 at Notre Dame and proceeded to lead the Irish to four national titles in 1 1 years. 
Sincejack Bickflell took over at Boston College in 1981, the team has gone from 5-6 to 8-3-1 in 1982 -including a 33-26 loss to Auburn in the Tangerine Bowl -to 9-2 this year. Besides defeating Penn State and Alabama this year, the Eagles dealt the Clemson Tigers their only defeat ofthe year. A victory over Notre Dame would add more than just another feather in the Eagles' cap since it is being touted as the biggest game in t t heir school's history. 
The Irish, on the other hand, have traveled tough roads since 1981. A loss to the Eagles would only add to the dis­enchantment with the football team that has become so prevalent on campus. A victory, though. could help restore at least some confidence in the team and perhaps even in its beleaguered coaching staff. It would also help kick off the 1984 campaign on a positive note. 
The main question, ofcourse, is, "Can the Irish defense stop Flutid" Besides having passed for over 2,700 yards at nd 1 7 touchdowns, Flutie has also managed to pick up 241 yards on the ground to rank fourth in the nation in to­tal offense. 
"Fiutie is a difficult person to stop," says Faust about the man who finished third in the Heistmm"''«>phy balloting this year. "The thing that really scares you about him is that he has a real knack offinding a second receiver when his primary target is not open. Plus he's a very quick and elusive scrambler as well as a good runner." 
Thus, the main strategy that the Irish will try to employ against Flu tie is blitzing him occasionally while keeping him contained in the pocket at the same time. This way the Irish hope to pressure him into some bad passes and keep him from scrambling around in order to buy some more time for his receivers to get open. 
The receivers, led by second-team all-American Brian Brennan, combine with Flutie to give the Eagles a first-rate passing attack. Brennan has latched on to 66 passes this season while averaging over 1 7 yards a reception. Flanker Gerald Phelan has averaged over 19 yards a reception with his 22 catches, while tight end Scott Gieselman has been the bread-and-butter man on the shorter passing routes with 45 catches for an average gain of 12 yards. 
The offensive arsenal doesn't stop there. The Eagles have 
a very potent rushing attack that is led by tailback Troy 
Stratford. Despite missing three games with an injury, Strat­
ford has gained 810 yards rushing while averaging five-and­
a-half yards each time he carries the ball. 
The key, though, will rest with Boston College's of­fensive line and its ability to stop Notre Dame's strong but fnconsistent front line. The Eagles front line is anchored by ~icknell's son, Jack Jr., who at 6-1, 2S4 pounds is me smal­lest member ofthe unit. ~n the early losses to Mithigan State and Miami, the Irishpass rush waS non-existel'lr. In the1 next five games the line simply destroyed its op~o~i'tion and led the defense to a No. 3 ranking in the natioh. Against Pitt and Penn State the line's performance once ag;Ufi tailed off. IfFlutie is not pressu~d by the line, then tht"·s~C'on­dary, which intercepted only seven passes this season, could be in for a long night. 

see LIBERTY, page 11 
join Penn State, Clemson. and Alabama on the 
Eagle's casualty list. 
BC's all-time leading passer is even more dan­gerous because ofhis daring attitudt· and ability to run. Combining fast feet, an accurate arm, and uncanny instincts, Flutit' and his impres­sionistic flair for the game provides BC with an exciting, sometimes devastating, ;~cit erratic vanguard. 
Refinements in parts of flutit:'s gam~o· have ;, allowed him to realize his potential. He doesn'~ 
1 

abandon the pocket as quickly as he was once 
wont to do. He picks out his secondary r 
receivers better than last year. Most important•· 
ly. he has become a more consistent ovt·rall I 
quaterback. Ht· has cut down on his intercep­tions( 20 in '82 compared to IS this year) with­out taking the edge off his aggrt·ssive style. 
"He has a much greater technical fed for the game now." offered Bicknell in praise ofhis quarterback. "He's more in control now, but in a good way. Flutie is controlled by Flutic, not by us. The key to his play is that he controls tht· game, but he still docs it his way. There arc cer­tain things we don't want to coach out of him." 
Things like spontaneity and improvisation. Things like the last-second chest pass Flutie suprisingly dumped on tailback Steve Strachan to beat Temple in October. Things like a 34­yard quarterback draw to beat Temple last year. 
Things like two last-minute drives to avert upsets by Rutgers and Syracuse in 1982. Things like two fourth quarter marches to sting Alabama amidst snow, sleet, rain, and even a power outage. Things like charisma that any coach would be a fool to screw around with. Let Flutie be Flutie. ,J 
One ofFlutie's most valuable attributes is his ability to read a defense on the scrimmage line,x and call audibles. Case in point: an 80-yard TO' bomb checked offon the first play from scrimmage against Holy Cross last year to take away any ideas ofupset the Crusaders might have had after scoring on their first possession. Final-BC 3S-10. 
Flutie called an audible to nail the coffin on Alabama-this season. Result: a ten-yard rollout touchdown pass on the short side ofthe field to fullback Bob Biestek. 

see FLUTJE, page 11 
The Liberty Bowl Wednesday, December 14, 1983 -page 11 
• • • Liberty 



The Game 
GAME: 25th Anniversary Liberty Bowl 
Fighting Irish vs. Boston College Eagles SITE: Uberty Bowl Memorial Stadium (50,180) TIME: 7:30p.m. CST; Thursday, Dec. 29, 1983 
TV-RADIO: Katz Sports Network (Approximately 140 stations around the country will carry the game) Curt Gowdy, Bud Wilkenson, and Dave Diles 
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 
Tony Roberts and AI Wester SERJES: Notre Dame I, Boston College 0 LAST MEETING: September 15, 1975 
Notre Dame 17, Boston College 3 
RANKINGS: (AP) Notre Dame unranked, Boston College 13th TICKETS: Game is sold out 

The Lineups 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE BOSTON COLLEGE DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT RE 46 PauiShaw 6-2 230 Sr. SE 24 Joe Howard 5-9 171 93 Steve Lubischer• 6-2 220 Sr. 
83 Mike Favorite 6·4 196 RT 92 Rob Swanke 6-2 253 Sr. QT 75 Larry Williams 6-6 284 84 Roy Norden . 6-2 224 Sr. 74 Mike Shmer 6·8 269 LT 52 S. Harrington 6-2 256 Jr. QG 54 Tim Scannell 6-4 270 71 Darryl Hazelton 6-3 256 Jr. 73 Jerry Weinle 6-3 248 LE 50 David Thomas 5-11 228 Sr. c 63 Mike Kelley 6-5 269 95 Chuck Gorecki 6-3 229 So. 62 Ron Plantz 6-4 266 NG 68 MikeRuth 6-2 254 So. SG 79 NellMaune 6·5 278 72 Tom Porell 6-3 240 Fr. 53 Tom Doerger 6-5 272 LB 99 Steve DeOssie 6-2 250 Sr. ST 76 Mike Perrino 6-5 271 55 Ed Von Nessen 6-2 228 Sr. 72 John Askin 6-6 261 LB 57 Ted Gaffney 6-2 225 So. TE 82 Mark Bavaro 6-4 246 36 Peter Holey 6·1 226 Jr. 85 Brian Behmer 6-6 218 CB 45 Todd Russell 6-1 178 Sr. QB 5 BiairKiei 6-1 206 43 Neil Hon 5-10 179 Jr. 7 Steve Bauerlein 6-3 195 CB 15 G. Radachowsky 5-10 188 Sr. FB 32 Chris Smith 6-2 231 26 Dan Abraham 5-9 178 Sr. 35 Mark Brooks 6-3 228 ss 41 David Pereira 5-10 204 Jr. TB 20 Allen Pinkett 5-9 184 27 Greg Santo 5·10 206 Sr. 
33 Hiawatha Fran-ws 17 TonyThurman 6-0 174 Sr. CISCO 5-10 185 1 0 Keith Seely 5·10 176 So. Fl. 6 MIH Jackson 6-0 181 p 34 John Mihalik 6-2 220 So. 
17 Alvin Miller 6-4 220 K 4 Mike Johnston 5-11 185 8 John Carney 5-10 170 
BOSTON COLLEGE OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL E 55 Mike Golic 6-5 151 SE 13 Brian Brennan 5-10 178 Sr. 56 Robert Banks 6-5 235 
11 Marvin McKenzie 6-0 1 85 Sr. FT 78 Mike Gann 6-5 256 L T 54 Shawn Regent 6-4 265 Jr. 96 Wally Kleine 6-8 272 74 Pat Cooney 6·5 271 Sr. NT 38 Jon Autry 6-2 246 LG 63 Mark Bardwell 6-1 258 Jr. 94 Mike Griffin 6·4 235 51 Mike Goodberlet 6-4 236 Sr. CT 92 Greg Dlngens 6-5 257 C 66 Jack Bicknell 6-1 254 Jr. 71 Eric Dorsey 6-5 269 53 Bob Vissers 6-3 232 Sr. SLB 37 Rick Naylor 6·3 227 RG 65 Steve Trapilo 6-4 271 So. 43 Rick DiBernardo 6-3 229 
56 Darren Twombly 6-4 235 Fr. MLB 58 Tony Furjanic 6-2 231 RT 79 Mark MacDonald 6-4 262 Sr. 47 Tom Murphy 6·2 219 74 Pat Cooney 6-5 271 Sr. WLB 49 M. Kovaleski 6-2 210 TE 83 S. Gieselman 6-5 233 Jr. 87 Joe Bars 6-5 237 49 Carl Pellagata 6-1 200 So. SCB 30 Stacey Toran 6-4 206 QB 22 Doug Flutie 5-9 176 Jr. 12 TroyWilson 5-11 170 
7 Shawn Halloran 6-4 213 So. WCB 40 Pat Ballage 6-2 197 FB 40 Bob Biestek 6-2 237 Sr. 48 John Mosley 6-1 195 32 Jim Browne 6-1 210 So. SS 27 Joe Johnson 6·2 189 
TB 23 Troy Stradford 5-8 182 So. 34 Daane Spiel· 
33 Steve Strachan 6-1 206 Jr. maker 6-1 203 FL 20 Gerard Phelan 6..0 187 Jr. FS 9 Chris Brown 6-1 196 1 Joe Giaquinto 5·11 185 So. 23 Steve Lawrence 6·0 180 K 2 Kevin Snow 5·8 155 Jr. p 5 BlairKiel 6-1 206 4 Brian Waldron 5-9 185 Jr. 10 Dave Meadows 6-3 195 
":"J)JIJC,fJ. ~~.,iJ .lfJ..OJ\ 'r ,",!Ill .!J i;·: 
')ri'f ··:llJdS!':' U· l~·f·j·JJ.•·! 
Hqr.p ~P:"~iu·. 4_ltrn·H(?&···l•';' dr ·H,­
-r brr; ~nirl"l!t,:'t ~·J(,:.~· i: ;-·,--~;-· .1q;.;l .:··· ·h-.--· ~·r:t­
~nni.t ..IL~.-:n' F····::...J;T...,.;: ).... ,. ,, :·f ~ n }:: ;, 
li~U.t1 ·:n., il.cm~~ ,fn~~! 1 ·.: •1 ···,:..! .. ''T .-. 
-id. • ~~· :~~J~ ~l~,od t • .ll:i .rnl •.t~ 'J•:·! 
~ t ~ ' !'( l ., 0 • T o!'
'I 0 0 0 I 
· 
1 
~ 
continued from page 10 
Linebacker Mike Kovaleski and nose tacklejon Autry will be ready for the game after missing action late in the year because ofinjuries. 
Offensively, Notre Dame will have its own 5-9 Heis­man Trophy candidate for 1984 in its backfield. Tail­back Allen Pinkett, who accounted for an incredible 513 yards oftotal offense in the last two games, is raring to go again as he will lead the offense against an ex­perienced and aggressive Boston College defense. 
"They are very bigdefensively," says Faust, "and they combine both their quickness and aggressiveness very well. They are also very experienced since theirstarters are predominately seniors. They have an excellent secondary and they like to blitz you a lot." 
The secondary is indeed talented as reflected in the I 7 interceptions that the four starters have grabbed against enemy quarterbacks. They have also limited opposing teams to a 47-percent pass completion rate. Other stalwarts on defense for the Eagles include second-team all-America linebacker Steve DeOssie and nose guard Mark Ruth who made 80 tackles and eight sacks this year despite having to ward off the usual double-team blocking that a nose guard faces. 
The Irish quarterbacking chores will be split be­tween senior Blair Kiel and freshman Steve Beuerlein. "Blair will start," says Faust, "but both will play a lot." 
continued from page 10 
Flutie has been blessed with good receivers, par­ticularly this season. Senior Brian Brennan was plagued by injuries last year, but has come back this season to make second team all-American. Tight end Scott Geisel­man copped honorable mention honors. Unheralded Gerard Phelan has good hands and makes a number of big plays. 
In addition, a running game blossomed this year, especially in the form ofTroy Stradford Stradford's run­ning and receiving talents have taken considerable pressure off Flutie and his targets. Flutie's numbers were nearly as good without the ground game, but BC's more diversified attack has made them a more success­ful team. 
When injliiies set in, and Stradford and Biestek were out for the West Virinia game, BC was forced to an ex­clusively aerial attack. Flu tie threw for 4 I 8 yards, but the Eagles lp~t, failing on three separate occasions to score from within the five. 
Flutie's storybook career at BC has not gone un­noticed. He graced the cover ofSports Illustrated in October, and has played color man to ABC's jim 
The Records 

NOTRE DAME (6-5) SEPT. 10 def. Purdue, 52·6 SEPT. 17 lost to Mich. St., 28-23 SEPT. 24 lost to Miami (Fla ), 20-0 OC.I. 1 de[ Colorado, 27-3 OCT. 8 de[ South Carolina 30-6 OCT. 15 dcf. Army, 42-0 OCT. 22 de[ Southern Cal, 27·6 OCT. 29 de[ Navy, 28-12 NOV. 5 lost to Pittsburgh, 21-16 NOV. 12 lost to Penn State, 34-30 NOV. 19 lost to Air Force, 23-22 
BOSTON COLLEGE (9-2) 

SEPT. 3 <l:~fMorgan State, 45-~.~ SEPT. I 0 ~t;. ,Ciemso!l, 31-16 SEPT . .17/Mt;i~utgerli.,..~-22 . ,1u n 
fllJ 'Jrlll•' ·•·;rl!r:. SEPT. 24 ~fJto W. Vifgjnia, 27i).7.:~ 
•! 1 ·irll irnri:t !J, OCT. I ~,t;;~;empled~r,l,5 ;iqrr· 
. "jotil ")fl.t ?")ffiJ ·.; ... OCT. 8 dfjL X.ale, 42ri1 ni; ·!1' 
• 1 
or ·vrr·,)·Ji _,r: 1 
.,...,, LlU.:ti-. nn._;u
OCT. 29.%f,Jenn S4lf;, 1 ~;7-I i1, J<l· 
The kicking game seemsa little suspect for the Eagles. Kevin Snow and Brian Waldron have combined to con­vert only 29 oftheir 40 "automatic" points after touch­downs, while also combining for a 10-for-22 effort in the field goal department. That is one intangible that can make the difference in this ball game. 
A second crucial intangible could be emotion. In all their wins this year, the Irish came out smoking in the first quarter and set the tone for the rest ofthe game by just obliterating their opponents early in the game. In those six victories, the Irish outscored the opposition 82-3 in the first quarter. In the five defeats, however, Notre Dame scored a total of 14 points in the first quar­ter -all against Michigan State -while the opposition scored 34 ofits own points. 
lithe Irish come our flat and fall behind early again, they will be hard-pressed to make a comeback agai t nst the explosive and fired-up Eagles. Making an early sack or interception against Flutie, however, or scoring first in the game, could do wonders for Notre Dame's con­fidence. 
"It will be interesting to see how our players will react in this game," says Faust. "Their character will be really seen now." 
As a springboard for the 1984 season, the Notre Dame football team could well do without another belly-flop. 
• • • Flutie 
Lampley and CBS's Brent Musburger on their Saturday scoreboard shows. 
The BC athletic department is smiling, too. BC's net­work appearances against West Virginia, Penn State, Ho­ly Cross, and Alabama have put 52 million into the school's coffers. The Eagles looked destined for the Fiesta Bowl before Syracuse tripped them up. 
Flutie has been BC's full page ad for the future. The junior Speech Communications major is articulate, a good student, shy in spite ofhis stardom, a guy whose parents still drive him home after most football games. He doesn't act or look like most football players, he's just Doug. 
With a year ofcollege football left, the future is bright for Flutie and for Boston College football. Bicknell has signed a five-year contract, recruiting has never been better, and Doug Flutie has a year left to set un­touchable figures in the BC record book and get his col­lege diploma before the pros beckon for him and his magic. 
john GillandMichael Rolfes are the associate editor and sports editors for The Heights, an independent student weekly atBoston College. 
NOV. 5 <lt;~j\rmy, 3*1J4,; , ·, rd I; 
u" nq ton ~• :JUU(iU 11o 
NOV.l2losttoSyracuse,2l-IO NOV. I 9 de[ Holy Cross, 47-7 NOV. 25_def. Alabama 20-13 
Allen Pinkett Irish tailback 


Sports Briefs 
Isiah Thomas scored 47 points and Dc:troit scort:d dght straight points late: in the: third overtime: to give the: Pistons a 186-184 victory at Dc:nvc:r last night in the highest-scoring gamt: in National Baskt:tball Association history. The old record for ont: tt:am was 173 points Ft:b. 27, 19S9 by the Boston Cdtics in a rt:gulation game. The two-team record was 337 points, whc:n host San Antonio deft:atc:d Milwaukee 171-166 in a triple-overtime con­tt:st on March 6, 1982. To hrc:ak a thrc:e-game losing streak, the Pis­tons had to overcome career highs by Dc:nver's K.iki Vandeweghe who had SI points and Alc:x English with 47. -AP 
The Boxing Room will be: open during c:xam wc:ek for tho~c: pc:opk who would like: to pra'-·tict: hc:forc: the: school dosc:s for Christmas Brt:ak. -The Obserr1er 
The Notre Dame Sailing team is looking for sailors with big boat racing expc:ric:nce to sail in the: Kc:nnc:dy Cup nt:xt spring. If intt·rt·sted, contact Chris Hussey at 283-11 SO. -The Obserz1er 
Chances for Indianapolis to obtain a major league franchise took a "giant leap forward" as a result of the baseball ownc:rs' mc:eting last wec:k in Nashville:, Tenn., the: chairman of the Indiana Baseball Committee said yesterday. Committc:c: chairman Danny Danielson said a nine-membc:r panel has bec:n selected to recommc:nd as many as six cities for expansion franchises -two in the American Lc:aguc: and four in the: National League -to put the numhc:r of tc:ams in c:ach k-ague at 16. "I would say Indianapolis would rank among the: top three contc:ndc:rs whc:n expansion oc­
curs," he told a news conference at Mayor William Hudnut's office. Danielson said six other cities besides Indianapolis were representc:d at the: owners' mc:eting last wc:ek -Denver, Vancouver, Buffalo, St. Petc:rsburg, Tampa and Miami. -AP 
Stepan Center will he dosed during exam week. -The Obsert1er 
The Notre Dante Ski teatn is having an absolute­ly mandatory mn·ting for all those who want to try out for the tc:am. The meeting will be: held at 7 p.m. in the: LaFortune Little: Theatc:r on Thursday, Dec. IS. Information about tryouts, as wdl as registration, will he (.'ovc:red at the: meeting. Those: interested are welcome to attend. If you cannot attt:nd, contact Julk Currie at 4434. -The 
Obserr1er 

The winner Ofthe Insilco Squad tourney, hdd Dec. 2-4, was Chaitanya Pan(.·hal. Panchal defeated Ron Anderson in the final round. As runner-up. Amkrson will rt:present the: t:'ID squash dub in th(.· lnsilco regional tournt:y hdd in Chicago on jan. 14 and IS. Par­ticipants should call Mikt· Kt:nnelly at I 161 forT-shirts. -The Ob­
sen,er 

Wednesday, December 14,1983-page 12 
Underclassmen improving 

Wrestlers impressive in tourney 
ByJOE BRUNETTI 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame wrestling team will enter its first home triangular mec:t ofthe season today with a head of steam after coming off an im­pressive showing in the Olivet Nazarene Tournament. 
Last Saturday the Irish placed second in tht: tourney, depending on how you look at it. The: "official" results of the tournament have Notrt: Dame losing to Illinois State 
by a half point. Howevt:r. Notre Dame wrc:stling coach Brothc:r joseph Bruno, C.S.C. has the Irish losing by a largc:r margin. 
The craziness doesn't stop there dtht:r. At the conclusion ofthe 190­pound final, the last match of the tournament, an Illinois State wrestler rc:fused to shake hands with Notre Dame wrestler David Hdmer, and he also used abusive language. These two infractions should have led to a two-point deduction from the Illinois State team score, which would make the Irish the winners, but no such deduction was made. 
And so, Illinois State is still the "official" winner, but the official "official" team scores will not be 

Landmark case? 
released for a few weeks 

In spite of all this madness, the Irish put forth an impressive showing, with Irish wrestlers either reaching the: finals or coming in third in all wdght divisions, except for the 1S8 and heavyweight divi­sions. In the I 58 division, Louis Car­nesale suffered a knee injury in his first match and did not finish the tournament, and the Irish did not en­ter a heavywc:ight wrt:stler. 
Helmer seems to create: excite­ment evt:rywherc he goes. In his third match of the tourney, he excited the fans by tying his ISU op­ponent 4-4 with a takcdown as time 
ran out. Helmer then won the match 
on a referee's "criteria decision." 

Only a freshman, Helmer has been jumping wdght classes, wrestling at both 190 and 177. "I am vc:ry impressed with Dave's improve­ment," said Bruno. "He has been wrestling very well at 190, so I'm sure he would be doing much better at 177." 
junior captain Phil Baty ( 177­pound) and john Krug ( 167), a sophomore, "I'm used to seeing Phil do so well that I kind of expect it. But it is great to see a younger guy 
like john improve so much each 
time he wrestles." 
Kevin Staveley-O'Carroll proved to be a surprise in the I 50-pound division by placing third in the tournament. The Olivet Nazarene tournament was the: sophomore's first taste of collc:giate tounament wrestling. 
The Irish, 6-0, will open their home schc:dule today against North Central Illinois and Defiance: ofOhio aftc:r hc:ing on the road for thdr first sevt:n competitions of the 198~-IH season. 
"This is our last mc:c:t before Christma.~ and it would he nice to remain undeft:ated in our tri-mc:ets," says Bruno. "Aftt:r this meet we will have a chance to heal our injuries until the end of December. A win sure would be a great Christmas present." 
The wrc:stling squad begins its home season at 7:30p.m. in tht: ACC pit, and maybt: with some support the Irish will get an early Christma.~. present. 



Punter challenges USFL's actions 
Associated Press 

Although a trial date has been sc:t for Sept. 11, 1984, in Los Angeles, PHOENIX, Ariz. -Bob Boris, a. Boris said he hopes a federal judge 
former University ofArizona punter who has gone to court to challenge United States Football League rules against drafting underclassmen, says he's deadly serious about his action, which could have long-range ramifications for pro football. 
Boris, 25, is seeking damages for being forced to miss the 1983 season due to the USFL's rule barring players from being signed before their eligibility ends. The suit con­tends that the USFL's eligibility rule -and similar rules in the National Football League and Canadian Foot­ball League -violates federal an­titrust laws. 
"This case is going to turn out to be a landmark in college football," says Don Meyers, a Phoc:nix-hased attornt:y for the llSFL's Arizona Wranglers, who predicts it could eventually go to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
will summarily rule: in his favor on jan. 23. The judge also could dismiss the suit or allow it to proceed to tri­al. 
In 1982, as a junior, Boris shared 
the Arizona Wildcats' punting duties 
and had a 47.5-yard average through 
the first three games. He was 
declared academcally ineligible 
soon afterward and dropped out. 
So he signed up with a San Diego­
based sports managc:ment firm and 
wrote various USFL clubs requesting 
tryouts. All replies were negative. 
"They said they felt for my posi­tion, but they weren't going to'let me play because they'd have shown bad faith with the colleges," saili Boris. "That's when we decidt:d to 
go to court." 
Last December, howt:ver, 1982 Heisman Trophy winner Herschel Walker -a junior running back at Georgia -signed with the l!SFL's 

New jersey Gc:nerals and "I figured 
the: doors would be open," Boris 
said. "I thought I would he able to 
sign right away. 
"But the lJSFL said no, that 

Herschel was an exception. Why? I 
don't know. I don't see how they can 
say that's good for one person and 
they can't do it for anybody else." 
Last month, Boris said the USFL 

declared him a free agent, and~he 
tried out last week for both he 
Chicago Blitz and the expansion k­
lahoma Outlaws. 
If he ends up signing with eit6er 

team, Boris said it can only help his 
case since it shows he had the ability 
to play in the: league. 
~***************•
* *
* * 
1 *

* _J_..'H•ppy-.. : 
: -<j·'Holidm; * * * 
~****************~ 



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
PRO· TYPE. 12 yrs expenence 
SpeC1ahz1ng 1n d1ssertat1ans. manuscnpts. theses, and student papers 
Call277·5833 lor rates 
TYPING 277-8534 after 5.30 
GERRY FAUST IS NOT A MAJOR COL­LEGE FOOTBALL COACH. 
JACKIE WILSON SAID WilSon 
Dnveawayl Cars to all potnts tn USA. only 
20$ and you p1ck up car 1n Ch1cago Call 288·7060 
PITISBURGH.. NEED RIDE. CAN LEAVE MONDAY 19. AFTER 5 CALL LARRY 1487 

New Years Dance Bobby Wear & Or· chestra, $15/couple Kn1ghts of Columbus 112 Lexington Elkhan 293­03414·10pm 

LOST/FOUND 

losl blue notebook 1n Cushing 12/5/83,Monday . after 10.00 Emil 
please return,needed for 810 ftnal 4263 
003Farley LOST Student season B·BALL TIX Sec 2. row B. seal 13 or 15. Please call Shelly x6955. 
LOST Plas11c Santa Last seen sway1ng 1n the w1nd oul 41h floor Window Farley. MUST BE RETURNED BY DEC 24 
Please report any 1nformat1on lead1ng to 
h1s whereabouts to Farley Sec11on 4A or Nonh Pole as soon as poss1ble 
Lost Blue spiral Biology notebook on Monday 12·5·83. possobly alter Em1l s 11 00 class under seal 297 Needed to pass my hnal Call me-Jean piZza-face ... at 4263 (003 Farley) XXOOX· xooxooxxoxo 
LOST-SEARS 2100 SERIES AM/FM CASSETIE RECORDER! IF FOUND OR SEEN. PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 8917! $$REWARD OFFERED$$ 
LOST·TEXAS INSTR Tl 55-11 CAL· CULATOR PROBABLY LOST IN NORTH QUAD AREA. PLEASE CALL BOB AT 3047 REWARD OFFERED. 
LOOKING FOR HOUSEMATE FIRST FLOOR OF HOUSE 713 W LA SALLE 288·3178 BETWEEN 12-5 PM 
LOST or m1sappropnated. the sleeve of my leather Jackel. unzippered off of my tacket allhe Buzz Club pany last Sunday mghl, December 11th. I don't know what 
your motives were. because I hardly see how the possesston of a stngle sleeve 
helps you. Don't be bizarre. and please return rt to Robbi at 233-4260. Don't be a Jerk 
LOST. Tl55-2 CALCULATOR LOST OR DROPPED WHILE LEAVING 1010 EMIIL ON FRIDAY REWARD. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. NEEDED FOR FINALS. CALL3463 
LOST NO MEN'S CLASS RING IN­SCRIPTION. JAMES P RYAN 85 PLEASE CALL 1780 REWARD OF· FERED 
Lost a pa1r of prescnptton glasc::.9s tn Engtneenng Audttonum or on South Quad 
Fnday Dec. 9. (In blue case) If found. con· tact Bo Oberg at6945. 243 Bad1n 
Found: Calculator 1n lront of Howard Hall Fn.. 12/9 Call Don 8245. 
ENDAD 

LOST Woman s blue down coal. II was lost in Pangborn fn 12/2 Please call (SMC) 4390 
Box of Girl's shoes and clothing found on October Phil a. Bus Call BB771o idenl1fy 
FOUND. $20.00 IN SOUTH QUAD. PLEASE CALL JOHN 1506 
LOST; Notre Dame's respecl.sp~rrt, and greatness. Why? They let in lemales. 

FOR RENT ,. 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS? Next Sem. or 
next year -call us first. Tom or Louise 
McGann 277-3461 or 2722-9299 
Apls. for 2nd semester · $100-225 plus deposit Call277·6239. 

WANTED 
R1ders needed to ATLANTA or anywhere along 1-75 or 1-16 & 1-95 in Georgia. Leav1ng after hnals. Call Alan a11402. 
ONE RIDER Nt:.EDED TO HOUSTON: LEAVING EARLY ON 12/21. CALL ROB 8102 
I need 5 Depaul T1x GA or STU (together) will Pay$$$ call Monica 284·5451 
NEED RIDE TO D.C. AREA CAN LEAVE 12/20 ·CALL CHRIS x1670 
JOE PISCOPO. Aide needed. Maine. Boston okay When? 21 sl or sooner Who? Ke1lh a12B3-B866 or 239-7471. Be there. 
WASHINGTON D.C. PEOPLE: Dad has given me early Christmas present MUST SELL my spol on the D.C "'lub bus by 12/14. CALL TIM a18671. 
R1ders needed to Detro11. Toronto. Nonh­ern New York. or any stops on HGY 401 leaving 12/20. Call Bill a117B7. EN DAD 
Need nders to ConneciiCul. Fairheld County area Leav1ng Tues.. Dec. 20. Call Nancy-283·6868 
RIDERS. RIDERS. RIDERS LOOKING FOR A RIDE TO CINCINNATI OR INDY AREA ON SAL17 OR SUNDAY? CALL EMILE X3770 
ROOMMATE FOR NEXT SEM NO APTS $97 50 MO. MARK 288-9070 
NeedndeloOHAREonDec.21 Call277· 7563-Davld. 
Need nde lo PHILLY/ABE or DC.Leave 12/16.Call Karen a11674 
Rider needed to K.C.Mo. leav1ng early 12/20 call Janet7937. 
Needed 2nd year arh1lecl sludenllo help on old house. Needs car Leave message at University Club. Care of JJ Weidner 
Desperately need nde to Akron/Canton area. Will fork large bucks. Depan 12/21 Call Patrick al4666 I even smell good 
Riders needed to U. leav1ng after last day of exams. Call Don 8245. 
NEED RIDE TO BUFFAL0-12/21 after 11 am CALL8719 
HELP! Need nde to Loutsvllle or nders to 
share rent car Can leave Dec 19 or 20. Call Kim-SMC 4135 
Need nde to Columbus. OH or anywhere 1n WV Can leave 12/17. Call Calh 284· 5315 
r RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO ON 12/21. EARLY AFTERNOON WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL JOHN AT 2183 
RIDE NEEDED lo ALLENTOWN for 
Chnstmas or anywhere close can leave 
Wed. nne w111 pay the usual. and more. call Chns 1045 
Need ride lo CLEVE after 4 on 12-20 or early 12·21 and nde back after break. Call Pam29B9 
NEED RIDE BACK FROM NJ AFTfR BREAK CALL MIKE AT 1472 END AD' 
·f· 
RIDE OR SOMEONE TO SHARE AEI'fT· Al CAR TO NJ WANTED PLEASE CAI..L PAUL3239. 
I NEED RIDERS TO S.W. CONNEC­TICUT OR WESTCHESTER COUNTY FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. LEAVING BY NOON. DEC. 20. CALL Ml'iTI· 3300 
Need RIDE to CLEVELAND.Can leave 12/20.Jack 1584 

The Observer Wednesday, December 14, 1983 -page 13 
Women's basketball 

Irish begin extensive road trip
During Exams 
By MIKE SULLIVAN about whether we're successful if sec which program has progressed 
TONIGHT  DECEMBER 21  
women's basketball  men's basketball  
vs. Western Michigan  vs. Valparaiso  
7:30p.m.  ?p.m.  
ACC Main Arena  ACC Main Arena  
wrestling  women's basketball  
vs. N.C. lllinios  vs. Central Michigan  
7:30p.m.  4p.m.  
ACC Auxiliary Gym  ACC Main Arena  
N.C. Illinois  

Darby's Place 
Special finals week hours: Sun-Thurs 12-3 am Fri-Sat 9-12 midnight 
-----specials every night-----_ pizza muffins, pop-tarts, cookies free coffee and hot chocolate 
Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team will not exactly be dashing through the snow on a one-horse open sleigh over the semester break as it travels to the Northeast, Mid­west, and deep South in a span of two weeks. However, it will be racing around basketball courts in Boston, Louisiana, Texas, Ohio, In­diana, and North Carolina trying to show people around the country that Notre Dame deserves national attention. 
The eight-game schedule which begins tonight, when the Irish play host to Western Michigan at 7:30, will mark a crucial point in the season as Mary DiStanislao's team should find out how good or bad it really is when the break is over. 
"By the end of the break, we'll be 
halfway through our season," says 
DiStanislao. "We'd better know· by 
that time what kind of team we 
have." 
Through the first six games, it has been difficult to tell how good the team is. The only time the Irish have played well in all phases of the game was against UCLA -a game won by the Irish. In every other game, they have had problems rebounding or shooting or turnovers, resulting in a mediocre 3-3 record. 
"We have to hit a consistent groove," says DiStanislao. "It seems there's always something we don't do well in a game. When we don't turn over the ball much, we get out­rebounded by 20, and, when we have a rebounding edge, we have more than 20 turnovers. 
"I'm just looking for a good per­formance from the players," ex­plains DiStanislao. "I don't think we go 7-1 or 6-2 because I don't think in those terms. I'll be happy if we play well-'• 
If the team "plays well," DiStanis­lao should get a good indication of how much she can expect this season. That does not necessarily mean the team will win all eight games, however, as two teams which have won national champion­ships in the past, Louisiana Tech and Old Dominion. will take on the Irish. The Irish will have to play nearly flawless basketball to beat either team_ 
However, before Notre Dame takes to the road to play these powerhouses, it will get a two-game shakedown period to work out some of the inconsistencies. The games against Western Michigan and defending Mid-American Con­ference champ Central Michigan 
(December 21 ) will give the Irish 
their last chance to play on their 
home court until next semester. 
Things get much more difficult in 
a hurry, however, as the next op­
ponent will be powerful Old 
Dominion in the first round of the 
Nike Christmas Classic at Boston 
College. Marianne Stanley's Lady 
Monarchs, who reached the Final 
Four in last year's NCAA Tourna­
ment and who have won two nation­
al championships, lost 6-8 
All-American Anne Donovan. but 
remain very strong. They have ex­
cellent players in Medina Dixon and 
Lisa Blais. 
The second-round opponent in 
the tournament will be either Vir­
ginia or Boston College, two 
programs that are building like 
Notre Dame's. No matter who the 
opponent is, though, this game 
should be a very important test to faster. 
A few days after the B.C. tourna­ment, Notre Dame travels to Green­ville, N.C., to take o·n the Pirates of East Carolina Cathy Andruzzi's team lost five players from last year's team that lost by two points to Notre Dame in the ACC. However, the Pirates are known to be a much tougher team to beat at home than away. 
The journey continues hack to Cincinnati where the Irish will open their first season of conference bas­ketball against the Muscateers of Xavier. An unknown quantity, Xavier is led by guard JoAnn Os­terkamp who averaged more than 21 points a game last year. 
Last season is what the next op­ponent. Louisiana Tech, remembers. The Lady Techsters do not remem­ber last year's 81-39 rout ofthe Irish; they remember how they lost the national championship they had held for two years. They almost never lose at home, and they return three potential All-Americans ­Janice Lawrence. Debra Rodman, and Kim Mulkey -who are playing their final year at Tech. As DiStanis­lao says, "They will be very, very tough." 
If Notre Dame gets out of Louisiana alive, it will end its road trip with a game at Southern Met­hodist. SMU is another program that is building toward national recogni­tion and a win over the Irish would help out the task. 
On the other hand, a win over Old Dominion, SMU, Louisiana Tech, or Virginia would also make DiStanis­lao's job ofbuilding a national power much easier. On January 15, 1984, the day of the SMU game, she will know how far she has to go. 

ATTENTION!!  
ALL CONTINUING STUDENTS  
University of Notre Dame Office of the Registrar (!nit•erslly Re~istrar Daniel H Winicur, Ph.D  You must enroll for the 1983/84 Spring semester, even if youllave advance registered. Enrollment for upperclass and_graduate students for the Spring 1983/84 semester will be held on Tuesday, January 17,1984, between 8:30AM and-3~-15 PM in the ACC. Freshman will enroll at the Stepan Center between 8:30AM and and 2:00PM. These times supercede any previously announced times. Enrollment consists of obtaining and completing an enrollment form which must be signed and given to an enrollment clerk, together with your student I.D. card. The clerk will stamp the form and give you a copy.  
Auulemic lnjiJnnalioll 2:w--o4.~  If you do not enroll by the end of the Add/Dr!Jp period (January 26, 1984), even if he/she has advance registered, you will be removed from the revised class lists Late enrollment will be permitted only under "extenuating personal circumstances." Permission of your Dean is necessary and a charge of $25.00 will be assessed.  
DDDODDDDDDDDDDDDDDD  
Your Spring semester class schedule together with your Fall,;emester grade report will be mailed to your  
HOME ADDRESS (undergraduate students) LOCAL ADDRESS (graduate students)  
Make sure you inform the Registrar's Office (graduate students should notify the Graduate School) of any change of address before you leave Notre Dame for the "break."  
If you do not have the class schedule which will be mailed to you, you will be able to obtain a copy ilt..lhe Registrar's Office. However, this will entail waiting in line and could result in a considerable wait (and a waste of your time).  
~ '(JIG r~VHlU Jb  If vou have any q~$1lons, contact the Registrar's Office (ext.7043). J9fll.Ji.;._ '{D/1U 1 ...... n ~ ... ~,..or·  
Daniel H. Winicur University Registrar  


The Observer Wednesday, December 14, 1983-page 14 
• 

'continuedfrom page 16 
with the Crusaders. They will return 
on Dec 27 10 begin a week of 
preparation for LaSalle, a game 
which should he a good measuring 
stick for the team to sec where it's at 
this sca.<;~m. 
"When we come hack after (the) 
road trip, we've got a good idea of 

what we are as a team," says Phelps. 
LaSalle is paced by all-America 

candidate Steve Black. The 6-3, 185­
pound guard ha.~ averaged 19.8 
points over five games this season. 
"This kid Black is a great guard." 

says Phdps of the LaSalle star. "He's 
as good as Pax (John Paxson). I sin­
cerely feel that Steve is one of the 
top guards in thl· United States in the 
college rank.~." 
Explorers' coach "Lefty" Ervin, in 
his tlfth year at the reins, has been 
around LaSalle for a long time as a 
student and a.o;sistant coach, in addi­
tion to his time as head coach, and 
feels that Black is one of the best 

ever at LaSalle. 
"In my twenty years here at 
LaSalle, I have never seen a better 

pun· jump shooter on the collegiate 
level than Steve," says Ervin. 
LaSalle is currently 3·2 with losses 

to St. Joseph's (Penn.) and Army. 
Even so, the Explorers arc not a team 
to he taken lightly. 
"Thl·y've got three starters hack 

with Black," says Phelps. "LaSalle is 
the team to win the Hig Five this 
year, not Villanova." 
The Explorers face Villanova this 

Saturday at homl· and will play in the 
Maryland Invitational hdore taking 
on the Irish Jan. 4 in the Spectrum in 
Philadelphia. 
Also n·turning from last year's 

LaSalle squad that lost to the Irish, 
68-56, at thl· ACC is 6-9 junior cen­
ter Albert Butts. Butts is averaging 
14.8 points a game this sea.'iOn along 

with 11.4 rebounds. The Irish lead the series, I 0-2. Notre Dame will next travel to 
Worcester, Mass., 10 play different Crusaders. This time they will he f~ring lloly Cross. 
The Crusaders play in the Metro Atlantic Conference and arc coached by George Blaney, in his I 2th year at Holy Cjoss. Blaney led Holy Cross to a 17-13 record last year and the Crusaders have lost on­ly one letterman of any conse­quence off that team. 
Holy Cross holds a 2-2 record this year, with wins over Dartmouth and Harvard and losses to Army and Providence. The Crusaders will play in the Rainbow Classic in Hawaii and at Boston College, among others, before meeting the Irish on Jan. 6. 
The Irish lead the series between 
the two teams by an 8-2 margin and 
have not met the Crusaders since 
the 1976-77 season. 
Phelps thinks this year's game will have special meaning, though. "It'll be like the football team and Boston College," says Phelps. "It'll be a crusade for them. The Crusaders become a reality." 
After the Holy Cross game, Notre Dame will travel from the East Coast to the West Coast for a Jan. 9 game with Washington in the Seattle Kingdome. The Huskies arc 2-2, having heat Texas Tech and Mis­souri and losing to LSU and New Mexico. They still must play St. Mary's (Calif.) and Washington State, a.'i well as in the Cabrillo Clas­sic, before facing the Irish. 
The matchup will be the first for the two teams and will he a homecoming of sorts for Irish point guard JoJo Buchanan, a Seattle native. Buchanan is currently out of the Irish lineup with tendonitis in his right knee, but is expected to he back in time for this game. The Irish coaching staff is aiming for the LaSalle game to he Buchanan's return to action. 
Notre Dame will tlnish their road trip with a Jan. I I game at Eugene, Ore., against the Ducks of the Uni­versity of Oregon. Don Monson, for­mer Idaho coach in his first year at 
Oregon, leads the Ducks, who were 9-18 a year ago. 
Oregon is 2-2 right now, with 


Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 
• . Progress 
wins over Pacific and Wichita State and losses to Colorado and Min­nesota. They will face Brigham Young, California, and Stanford, as well as play in the Far West Classic, before meeting the Irish. 
As with Washington, it will be the 

first  time  Notre  Dame  has  met  
Oregon.  
"People  are  going  to  like  the  

Notre Dame game," says Monson. "Digger Phelps' style of coaching and the national attention Notre Dame receives will make this a big game for us." 
For sure, the Irish have their work cut out for them after what should be an easy win over Valparaiso. And when the students return to campus in January, they will have an indica­tion ofhow good this team is and can be in the future, just by looking at how the team fared on its extended road trip. 


Box Score 
Yesterday's ResuHs Notre Dame 55, Comell48 

Notre Dame (55)  Cornell(48)  
M FG-A  FT-A  'R  F  p  M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Dolan  40  4-11  0-0  12  1  8  Palmer  34  0-4  0-0  5  4  0  
Barlow  29  5-8  0-0  1  2  10  Bomba  39  7-14  2-2  4  2  16  
Kempton  25  2-3  5-8  6  4  9  Bantum  39  5-10  2-4  7  5  12  
Duff  36  1-3  5-6  4  1  7  BaJUSZ  37  1-7  0-0  2  2  2  
Price  26  3-9  0-0  2  2  6  Martin  39  7-10  0-0  2  3  14  
Hicks  16  2-2  5-6  1  0  9  Givens  2  1-2  0-0  0  0  2  
Royal  10  1-1  0-0  1  0  2  Williams  7  1-1  0-0  0  2  2  
Sluby  16  2-5  0-2  3  1  4  Colangelo  1  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Bowen  2  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  Kartsonas  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
200 2D-42 15-22  30  11  55  Hedengren  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
FG  Pet.  .476.  FT  Pet  -682.  Team  King  1  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
rebounds  -1. Turnovers  -17. Assists-11  200 22-48  4-6  21  18  48  
(Duff 5). Technicals-None  FG  Pet.  .458.  FT  Pet.  -.667.  Team  
rebounds  -1. Turnovers  -16. Ass1sts  -11  
(Palmer 4). Technicals-None.  

Halftime-Notre Dame 25, Cornell18. Offi­cials-Jim Ba1n, Ralph Rosser. Gil Haggart (all Big Ten). A-10.581 


FIGHTING IRISH FANS 
Liberty Bowl Party Headquarters 
2115 Madison Ave. in Overton Square (901) 725-7737 



Do you need ND Christmas presents for your family and friends? 

Various Notre Dame T-shirts will be on sale TODAY WED., DEC.14, in LaFortune 1-4p.m.) and at the Dining Halls during Lunch and Dinner for only $1 and $2! 
Quality shirts at LOW prices 
A great gift idea! 
BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours -Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m. -3:30 p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service!'. 

I ., 
~s· 
;>~source ~Bank 
Member F.D.I.C. 



'JI['4CJt~C3L~--------------------------------------~--ed_n_e_~_a_y_,_o_e_ce_m
__b_er_1_4_,_1_98-3---p-a_g_e_1..5 

Bloom County 
8€Wr\ING ON(; WITH 

OH GOil. rr 15 so 
Y()IJ'R£ 1H€ WHALES. YOO CAN 
INCRW!B(£. JUST ~H liiJIN0 COMr.'IJI/ICIIJF. W/1li 1H£M 
TH€ P£5PON5e"OF 1HM WHiff, 1HR£XK,ii WIJ5lC., VA I<NOW. 
e.10 ~ RIGHT eaow us MAI7AM ? I'M ro!N& ffW /H€515 ()I 
WH/1.£ I PC..AY mE "WJONUGHT 
\ 50NATA: 00,
". IT. 

~ /) 
' 

Fate 
YAHOO# I FINISH£~ 
M/ PAPER$ 

Berke Breathed 
ANY1lii~? 

SH£'5 CIJRWI'K:T.
I 

Photius 
r KNOW I'M IN 
TH£ 'TWIUC:tHT ZONE,' r :rusr KNow 1T. • 

Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab Seminar, "Electron Transfer and Free Radical Reactions of Flavin Sys­tems," Prof D. A. Armstrong, Rad. Lab Conference Theatre 

•4:30 
p.m. -AFROTC Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium 

•6:15 
p.m. -Circle K Christmas Party and Meeting, Hanner Hall Penthouse 

•6:30 
-8:30 p.m. -Psychological Services Workshop, "How to Survive Exam Week," Pasquerilla West Chapel Lounge 

•7 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, Muscular Dystrophy Association Superdance, Center for So­cial Concerns 

•7:30 
p.m.-Bas ketball, NO Women vs Western Michigan, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Wrestling, NO Men vs. Wisconsin Parkside, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Faculty Senate Meeting, 202 CCE 

•8 
and 10 p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall 

•8 
p.m. -ND-SMC Right to Life Meeting, LaFortune Uttle Theatre 


-i.l, 


TV Tonight 


START THINKING ABOUT SPRING BREAK!!! 

,, 


By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish scored their last nine 
points from the free throw line and 
hung on to defeat Cornell Univer­
sity, 55-48, last night at the Athletic 
and Convocation Center. 
The Big Red of Cornell were forced to foul the Irish in the last two minutes of the game, sending Notre Dame to the charity stripe 14 times. The Irish converted nine of those opportunities to stretch their lead to '5'5-44, before Cornell scored its last two baskets. 
The Irish again looked sluggish in the early going. After tying the game at 2-2, Notre Dame went three and a half minutes without scoring until joseph Price canned one from long range. 
The Big Rt·d also had problems scoring at the outset of the game, going more than six and a half minutes without a point after Drew Martin had opened the game's scoring, and Cornell was unable to capitalize when the Irish went cold. 
After Price hit another jumper, 

Five games over Break 
Notre Dan1e to evaluate progress 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Assistanl.\fmrts Editor 
!loping to get their offt·nse on track, the Notre Dame basketball tt·am will host Valparaiso next Wed­nesday, before going on a four game road trip after the New Year which will sc:c it traVl·l to both the East and West Coasts. 
But before the Irish can worry about any of these games, they must first put their mind on finals. "Now, we've got to have everybody get 
through their final exams and have conference that most Notre Dame 
them eligible for second semester," students have never even heard of. 
says Notre Dame coach Digger Fourth-year Valpo coach Tom Smith. 
Phelps. will bring a team to the ACC that lost 
When finals are over next Wed­two lettermen offoflast year's 13-1 '5 nesday, the Irish will meet Val­squad, which lost to the Irish 108­paraiso for the 27th time in the 70. history of the two schools. The Irish Senior swingman John Meyne hold a 25-1 lead in the series with leads the Crusaders. His 18.9 ppg a their one loss to the Crusaders com­year ago topped all Valpo players. ing in the 1920-21 season, the The Irish players will head home 
second time the two teams played. for Christmas right after the game Valparaiso plays in the Association of Mid-Continent Universities, a See PROGRESS, page 14 
Some thoughts after a fall to forget 
This has been a semester to forget as far as Notre Dame athletics arc concerned. Sure, there have been some good points to the semester -the cross country team's big win in the National Catholic Meet, the women's bas­
Mike Sullivan 
ketball team's upset ofUCLA-but the bad fur outweighs the good. Sports Editor I'm sure most people would not like to recreate the 
events ofthe first semester. After all the frustration, disap­pointment, disgust, etc. that the fall brought, people would just as soon look ahead to the next semester to see if the basketball teams -both men's and women's -can put "Top Twenty" back into the vocabulary of Notre Dame major sports. 
There is one event remaining, however, that could bring back many of those bad memories. I don't have to mention it by name, because anyone who reads "Fate" or the classifieds knows what I'm talking about, but, for those who still don't know, I'm talking about the Libeny Bowl. 
Before I talk about the Liberty Bowl, however, the air needs to be cleared of a few things. 
What right does Tbe Observer or a person who writes for it have to criticize the football team? In order to ask this question, as many football players have done, one would have to ask a similar question -why should the football team receive much more press than any other spon, and what right do the players have to be treated as more imponant than the average student who isn't featured in a story? 
The answer is simple. The average person outside the University bases his or her opinion about the school on how the football team (and, to a lesser extent, the basket­ball team) performs. You don't hear friends back home ask you about the faculty or Father Hesburgh. They want to know what's wrong with the football team. 
While this shouldn't occur, the plain fact is that it does. lt is asking a lot ofcollege-age student t s to deal with this, but, for every player who has to deal with it, there are a hundred more who would love to be in his position. 
That is why the performance of the Notre Dame foot­ball team is so imponant to those who are concerned about the reputation ofthe school. 
Notre Dame students are probably more concerned about the school's reputation than anyone else. That is why it is the duty of Tbe Observer, the student newspaper, to cover the team more closely than any other team. 

For most ofthis past season, however, there really has been nothing positive to repon. Sure, the great perfor­mance of Allen Pinkett was positive, but the overall results -losses -were usually negative. That is why this column has been negative so many times this year. 
But, while this column reflects a student's opinion of things, it does not reflect the feelings ofonly one person. Rather, I think it reflects the opinion of the majority of the students. Granted there are some people who dis­agree -most of them are players -but the majority of the students have a very negative feeling -or no feeling at all -about the football team. 
This leads us to the second question -just because we, as students, criticize the football team, does it mean we are not real funs? 
I quote a very imponant member of the team who usually acts as team spokesman: "We don't want fans who are going to criticize us." Ifthis is the requirement to be a fan, there will be no "real" funs left to pack Notre Dame Stadium every Saturday. My definition ofa fan is someone who is sincerely concerned with how his or her team performs. If something is right, a fan will cheer, but, if something is wrong, he will-criticize fairly until it is made right. 
I feel that most Notre Dame students are being fair when they complain about the team's perfOrmance. When you have a team that is supposed to be more talented than any of its opponents and still loses, some­thing is very wrong. When this happens for three years, a fan begins to feel his criticism is going unheard and, at this point, either criticizes more or gives up. Most Notre Dame students have given up. As soon as the team begins playing as it is capable, though, the students will be back in full force. 
the Irish committ~d three turnovers before Jim Dolan broke another scoring lapse, lasting 3:40, by follow­ing his own missed shot. 
With 11 :27left in the half, the two 
teams  had combined for  only  12  
points on the scoreboard.  
The  two  teams  proceeded  to  

trade baskets, and Cornell came within three at 21-18 after Brad Bomba, the game's leading scorer with 16 points, broke loose for a layup. 
The Irish tallied the last four points of the first stanza to lead 2';­18 at the half. Cornell had shot only 9-24 in twenty minutes. 
"I thought we were a little tight on our shots in the first half," said Tom Miller, coach of the Big Red. "We were getting the shots we wanted, hut we were not making them. If we had hit more of our open shots, it would have been close at the halt:" , 
Turnovers again plagued the Irish in the first half. Eleven times they squanden:d scoring opportunities by throwing the ball away. 
The Irish came out like gamebus­ters in the second half, scoring eight straight points. Kempton had two baskets during the spurt, including a slam dunk after a Price steal that brought the crowd of 10, ';81 to its feet. 
When Ken Barlow scored on a move through the lane, Notre Dame opened its largest lead of the game, 3'5-19. Kempton then drew his fourth foul at the 13:39 mark, ear­ning him a seat on the bench. 
Although his team was hot from the field, four straight misses result­ing from poor shot selection prompted Irish coach Digger Phelps to call a time-out with 11:23 remain­ing. 
Less than three minutes later, Phelps called another time-out, as 
five straight points by Cornell cut 
the margin to 39-32. With 2:49 
remaining, Cornell pulled to within 
six, 46-40, but because they had 
committed only three team fouls in 

the second half up to that point, the 
next three fouls against the Big Red 
gave the Irish the ball out ofbounds, 
and the clock continued to run out, 
as did hopes ofa Cornell upset. 

From then on in, Notre Dame put 
the game out of reach at the free 
throw line. Dan Duff hit five of six 
free throws when they counted. On 
two occasions, a S<.-rambling Dolan 
kept the ball in play when a free tos!> 
was missed at the Notr(· Dame end. 
forcing Cornell to foul again. 

Cornell was badly outmanned in the garnt·. as only thrn· players scored for the Big Red until .fohn Bajusz fired home a long jumpl'f with 0::~ I remaining. In addition to Bomba's 16 points, Martin had 1·1 and Ken Bantum chipped in I 2. 
Barlow led the Irish with ten 
points, eight of them corning in the 
second halt: 

The Irish height advantage was 
evidenced by the 31-21 rebound 

margin. Dolan was high man for the 
game with I 2 caroms. 

However, the Irish offense con­tinues to have problems putting points on the board against not so worthy opponents. 
"I think that if we get some continuity going in our offense. we'll bt· able to get a lot more open shots and not commit the turnovers," Bar­low said. "Teams have been sagging in on us a lot, but if we could hit those shots from the wings it would open the inside game back up." 

Notre Dame, now '5-3, has another chance to find its shooting touch before the New Year when they host Valparaiso next Wednesday. 
If this were Northwestern where nothing is expected from the team, the bad performance of the team would not be so newswonhy. But this is Notre Dame and, while winning is very important, it is the actual performance on the field that concerns people. As the saying goes: it is not whether you win or lose, but how you play the game. The Notre Dame football team, as a whole, is not playing the game as well as it can. If it is, then you have to wonder why we have been told by expens that there is an in· credible amount of talent wearing Notre Dame jerseys. 
All that the students are asking is that the team plays hard for 60 minutes, and acts as if its opponent, whether it be Air Force or Penn State, is the greatest team in history. I think that ifthe team could do this, it would never have a season like the past three again. 
Now we have the Libeny Bowl to worry about. Whether or not the school should have elected to go is a moot point -the die has already been cast -but it does appear the athletic department is playing Russian roulette with the team. The odds are that the outcome will have little effect on anything, but there is that chance the reputation of Notre Dame football will be ruined even more. 
Notre Dame has nothing to gain in Memphis but respect, which hasn't been much ofa driving force for the team this year. Boston College is looking to make a name for itself. 
Boston College wants to bury Notre Dame, but Notre Dame really doesn't have any strong feelings about the Eagles. 
Doug Flutie and Allen Pinkett should have great days, but Pinkett will probably need more than 2'50 yards to have a chance ofothetting Flutie's arm. 
These reasons alone are enough·to make Notre Dame a heavy underdog. 
There are some people who think a crushing win by Boston College will be best for the Irish because it will show them that they are not as good as they think. But, while they may have a point, we, as true fans, cannot root against Notre Dame. All we can hope for is another surprise. All the surprises lately have been unpleasant. Maybe, on December 29, we will finally get a pleasant surprise. 



