• • • Football -page 9 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1983
VOL XVII, NO. w: the independent ~tudent Ill"\\ ~paper ~t-r\·ing notre dame and ~aint man·~ 
Cause sought for student illness 

By SARAH HAMILTON 
Neu•sStajj 
Food poisoning is being con­sidered by the Department of En­vironmental Health and Safety ( DEHS) as a possible cause of the recent surge of gastroenteritis among North Quad students. No t1rm evidence has been found yet to connect the Notre Dame Food Service with the illness. 
"It doesn't seem likely it could be food poisoning," commented Robert Zerr ofDEHS in an interview yesterday. Zerr compared the num­ber of people who have become ill with the number of those who have eaten in North Dining Hall in the last 72 hours and deemed ·any correla­
tion unlikely. 
With cooperation from the Food Service, which retains samples of every meal, DEHS has taken samples ofSaturday dinner's hamburgers and Sunday lunch's roast beef to the South Bend Medical Foundation for tests. In five days DEHS will be able to take a more definitive stance after the results of the cultures return from the Foundation. 
During the course of the past weekend, "an excess of 90" stu­dents, "a great majority" of whom reside on the North Quad, according 
to University Physician S. Bernard 
V<~gner, reported to the infirmary 
with symptoms of nausea, vomiting 
and diarrhea. 
Most who visited the infirmary did so on Sunday morning and after­noon. Vagner, the doctor on duty Sunday, and four nurses, who were called in especially to handle the in­creased number of patients, treated 
students for individual symptoms within an average of 1 5 minutes. Routinely, when a student is 
diagnosed as suffering from gastroenteritis, he is asked what and where he ate in the last 24 hours. No common denominator was found in this case. If spoiled food was in­volved. "generaly it would affect everbody that ate it," said Assistant 
Food Service Director Ron Athey. 
There are often "suspected problems" of food poisoning during this time of year, added Athey. January and February are commonly referred to as "the flu season." Har­riet Joyce, R. N., infirmary staff nurse. also suggested the season as a cause of the virus. Doctors are checking for bacterial infection as well. 
Any stdent experiencing any of the aforementioned symptoms is en­couraged to report to the infiirmary for treatment and medication. 

Upcoming election issues 

FLOC debate and senate races continue 
Editor's Note: The following is the AI Hank thinks "a need exists in second ofa five-part series describ­student government" for ing the candidates in each of the "constructive changes" to be made five Student Senate districts. by "all the different segments" of Today's segment profiles can­didatesfrom District 2, which con­Campus , sists ofBreen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Keenan, Stanford, and * Campaign '83. Zahm Halls. The series will con­tinue tommorrow with District 3. government. The Cavanaugh sopho­
more stated that he would have the ByTOMMOWLE "motivation" to "conti,ue the ef­Campus Campaign Reporter fectiveness of programs" initiated in 
the coming year. 
"Motivation" is the key issue in The finance major would propose the District 2 Senate Campaign. "the placing of laundry facilities in Both candidates, AI Hank and Bob men's dorms." He also would like lO 
Riley, feel the Senate needs to work 
see MOTIVATION,page 4
harder. 
Improved doctoral programs 

Endowment funding received 
BySONYA STINSON 
Senior StaffReporter 
The PACE report has challenged the univerisity to improve the quality of its doctoral programs, an effort administrators hope will lift Notre Dame higher among the ranks of the very best in advanced studies and research. 
"We believe very strongly that scholarship and research are very important." Robert Gordon, vice president for advanced studies, commented, "not only to the transmission ofknowledge, which is· the teaching function, but also to the generation of new knowledge, which is the function ofresearch." 
Gordon said Notre Dame already has a long tradition of quality in teaching, and he would like to main­tain that strength while increasing the quality of research. 
"We are going to try to join the ranks of the best in the research department," he said. "I would have to say we are now among the.top 35 universities. We are not top 20 ­that's the Stanfords, Yales and Havards." 
The amount of outside research funding a university receives is one way of measuring the strength of its advanced studies department. According to Gordon. in 1981-82 Notre Dame received grants for about S I i million, S9 million of which resulted from competition. 
This year the advanced studies 

program received new funding from a Houston endowment known as the Jesse H. Jones Faculty Development Fund. It provides S 1 million over a five-year period, according to Gor­don. 
The first part ofthe endowment is the Faculty Research Seed Grant, which dispenses on a competitive basis research money to help faculty members get started on their projects. The emphasis is placed on young researchers. For 1982-8{the Seed Grant received S60,000. 
The Faculty Research Travel Grant is the second part of theJones endowment. It provides assistance to faculty members who need to visit archives or libranes outside the university in order to complete their research. This year the assistance 
amounts to S15,000. 
The third part of the endowment is the Research Equipment Grant. Faculty members will be allowed to submit proposals for the purchase of specialized computers and laboratory equipment. This part of the fund amounts to $75,000 this year. 
In addition to the Faculty Development Fund, Notre Dame has received anotherJones grant for the Business Research Data Base, a com­puter system which contains in­formation about corporate activity. This grant is for SSO,OOO per year. · "This last fund is the first step in the development in the College of Business Administration of a center for research in business," Gordon said. 
According to Gordon, the Jones funds doubled the amount of money available for seed and travel grants. "We operate on the idea that some of this will trickle down into the classroom," he added. 
The PACE report points out that a 
decline of interest in doctoral 
studies is affecting research 
programs which depend upon 
see ENDOWMENT, page 4 

that has affected many North Quad students. (Photo by Tom White). 
ByJOHN BURCHETT 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
Baldemar Velasquez, president of the Farm Labor Organizing Commit­tee, spoke about the FLOC boycott of Campbell products at the Library Auditorium last night. 
"Notre Dame is a major educa­tional institution an"d when this stu­dent body speaks, it sets an example that goes out all over the country," said Velasquez, in response to a question about the significance of the Notre Dame boycott of Campbell products. "I think that it hurts Campbell's image more than it hurts its sales. They want to make the Campbell's name a good one, and when someone says there is something rotten in that soup, Campbell's doesn't like it." 
The forum, sponsored by the office of student affairs, was in­tended to educate the students about the issues behind the FLOC boycott of Campbell products. The student body will decide whether or not to continue the boycott on Feb. 
8. The speech by Velasquez was originally scheduled to be a debate between FLOC and Campbell's, until Campbell's decided not to par­ticipate. It lasted 30 min., followed by an hour of questioqs. Ap­proximately 150 people attended 

Campus ,* Campaign 83 
the speech. 
Velasquez told the audience about his experiences as a migrant farm worker. He then explained the structure of the tomato industry and the reasons tat FLOC is boycotting Campbell. He cited the working and living conditions ofthe migrants and the dominant role Campbell and the other big canneries play. in the con­tract negotiations with the farmers. "With the contracts that the com­panies present to the farmers, they can't afford to give us what we need." 
When asked what demands of FLOC would have to be met for them to call off their strike and 
see BOYCOTT, page 4 

Saint Mary~


lobbyist proposed 
BY BETH W:-'\UH 
News Staff 
The possibility of providing a Saint Mary's representative to par­ticipate in various student lobby groups, which presently have representatives from Notre Dame and Purdue, was discussed at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting Sunday night. 
Interested Saint Mary's students are to see Student Body President Kathleen Murphy for more information on these lobby groups, which address issues ofconcern on college campuses. 
Plans for the upcoming semester include an effort to raise funds for the Northern Indiana State Hospital-Logan Center. This fund raiser, an aluminum can collection drive, will be held in conjunction with Notre Dame. 
The money collected will be used to purchase a van with adapta­tions for wheelchairs. Dean James Roemer has agreed to sponsor a keg on Green field for the dorm that collects the most cans. The keg would be provided for the first home football game next fall. 
The deadlline for ticket platforms to be submitted for the Saint Mary's student elections is Feb. 5. Campaigning will begin Feb. 6th and continue until election day, Feb 10. 


ews Brie!J 
lh" The (Jhsert•er and The Associated Press 
A four-man_ team, funded by private donors. entered 
Lao~ last fall in a failed atempt to rescue l .S. prisoners of war 
believed to be still alive. one team member claimed yesterday. Actor 
William Shatner confirmed he gave one member of the group 
S10.000. but said it was for the man's life storv as a possible movie 
script. He said the man told him he was "contemplating" a POW 
rescue attempt. A Defense Department spokesman said oftkials 
knew the mission was planned and advbed the group the operation 
was illegal. The spokesman could not confirm that the missinn had 
taken place. The Nov. 2-mission was aborted when the Vietnamese 
were tipped oft·and ambushed the party. chasing three ofthem out of 
Laos and capturing one member ofthe party. Sgt. Charles]. Patterson 
said former Special Forces Sgt. Dominic Zappone was captured, and 
just last week was ransomed for S 1 ""',500 by the group's leader, for­
mer Green Beret Lt. Col. James G. "Bo" Gritz. -H. ot' Los Angeles. 
Both men were still in Thailand vesterdav. said Patterson. who said 
he returned to the Cnited States ~n Dec. i-. lie identified the fourth 
American can on the mission as Gary Goldman. but said he did not 
know his whereabouts. The team members. plu~ six or seven non­
government people helping them. raised about S-i5.000 from 
private sources. he said. -AP 

The Environmental Protection Agen­cyput 218 counties in 3 3 states on notice yesterday that they could lose millions of dollars in federal highway funds and face bans on certain types of construction because of dirty air violations. The goverment set in motion a lengthy process to impose sanctions against the areas even though top EPA officials termed the penalties distasteful and counterproductive to the country's goal of cleaning up the air. Included on the dirty air list were cities like Los Angeles, :'liew York. Denver. Pittsburgh and Houston. which traditionally rank near the top in rankings of the number of "unhealthful" dav~ each year because ofdirty air. However, the list also includes man;-places generally considered to have far fewer air pollution problems such as Miami, Phoenix, Ariz.. and Great Falls, Mont. They are all facing the threat ofsanctions based on EPA's belief that they have violated re­quirements in the Clean Air Act. The largest number of counties, 
I 11, are being cited because the government feels they missed a 
Dec. 31, 1982, deadline for achieving national health standards for 
one or more oftlve pollutants-small particles, sulfur dioxide, car­
bon monoxide. ozone and nitrogen oxide. Another 53 counties 
were put on the proposed sanction list because thev had either failed 
to submit adequate plans or were not carrying ou.t those plans. For 
two of the pollutants which are auto-related -carbon monoxide 
and ozone-areas could get a five-vear extention ofthe deadline bv 
submitting a plan proving how th~y would combat smog by such 
things as requiring auto exhaust inspections. -AP 
Saint Mary's studentsinterested in running in the upcoming elections arc reminded of the mandaton· campaign meeting to be held tonight at -:50 p.m. The meeting will be held in the student government oftkes. All tickeh must be represented by at least one member. 
Th~ nam~ .Eldridge R. Johnson may not be tamthar,but "His Master's Voice," the portrait of Nipper the dog cocking his ear to one of the first phonographs. is known worldwide. And the dog was merely a sales gimmick for Johnson, who revolutionized the record and phonograph industry 
by developing a phonograph without a handcrank in I896. Johnson. 
who was from Dover and died in 194S, founded the Victor Talking 
Machine Co., now known as RCA. The history of]ohnson's work can 
be found at the johnson .\temorial building at the Delaware State 
Museum complex in Dover. Here. in a museum patterned after a 
1920's Victrola dealer's store, are large and small statues of Nipper, 
an array of phonographs and more than 20,000 records. "His Mas­
ter's Voice." painted in 1899 bv Francis Barraud was the svrnbol of 
johnson's company. The muse~m has one ofth~ paintings-that was 
given toJohnson by Barraud. -AP 
Officials in Milwaukee who want farmers ro use more sludge have decided that they could spread the word better if they had a better word to spread. The .\filwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District told its Public Policy Committees on Friday that it will give .!1250 to the person who can think of a more marketabk name for sewage sludge. The agency said it will hold a contest early next year among its employees and farmers who apply for the sludge. It noted in a staff memorandum that other sewerage sellers have found sweeter words for the foul-smelling stuff. The Madison Metropolitan Sewerage District calls its fertilizer Metrogro. -AP 
Indian.a State Attorney General Linley E. Pear­son has asked the state to revoke the license ofan Evansville skilled­care nursing home after surprise inspections revealed deplorable and intolerable conditions." A hearing is scheduled today before the Health Facilities Council in the case of the Evansville Health Center, one of 15 homes operated by AR."' Living Centers ofCarmel, Pearson said. -AP 
Considerable cloudiness today with a 40 per­cent chance for morning showers possibly mixed with light snow. Near steady or slowly falling temperatures. Partly cloudy and cold tonight. Lows in low 30s. Partly sunny and cold tomorrow. Highs in the mid and upper 30s. -..4P 
Tuesday, February 1, 1983-page 2 
Is college a crock? 
You arc sitting in class; your stomach growb. "What 
am I doing in this stupid class'" you ask. You peer for­
ward from your back row seat. "Who is thrs clown' 
What a hore. .\1aybe he'll die." While: your professor 
drones on, you look at your watch." Hmmm. 37 minutes 
to go; I think I'll go to sleep." Your note-taking i~ 
sporadic You don't care. Finally the bell: you go to 
lunch. where you tell your friends how much you hate 
your class. 
Sound familiar? All too often it dot·s, but it shouldn't. 
Your professor has devoted his or her life to a field of 
study. You arc paying thousands of dollars a year to 
learn this field. Supposedly. 
Acollege education is a privilege to be cherished. Yet too often students and teachers square off in an academic duel. Students who relate to their profs as humans are accused of "brown nosing." Rather than expanding their knowledge, students live in fear of the 
G.P.A. scythe. They schedule classes they have no inter­

est in so they can get a good The American system of grade. education methodically 
Society has come to see a makes learning a chore. lf college diploma as a hadge you look at kindergarteners, of success. lt doesn't matter you will find a group of hap­what went into it. as long as py young minds waiting to it can be hung up on a wall. absorb knowledge. Look at People look upon their four that same group twelve years as a stepping stone to a years later: many have lucrative future. On the op­
dropped fJU! tn join tloe posite side is the institution. ranks ofthe ignorant. Other~ which is bound to give the see graduation as salvation. student a "well-rounded" and most of the rest are education, whether they looking fonvard to college 
like it or not. Thus college and the riches it will bring 
requirements are set up. them. Very few still want to 
Two maths, two theologies. expand their minds. 
two philosophies, one fine Schools of higher learning 
arts... the recipe for the compound the problem 
"complete" student goes on. when they give the fresh-
Sadly, in all too many cases, such shotgun knowledge fires blanks. 
Some students have overcome this. They have become experts at storing a semester's worth of learn­ing until three minutes after the final. These people can surmount four years of academia. reach a zenith gradewisc, and graduate with little more than they started with. 
Many don't even know why they are in school. At the ripe age of I8 or 19 they must pick a major that will aftect them the rest of their lives. As maturity sets in. many discover with horror that they have no interest in their major. But then its too late. If only they had had more time to make up their minds. 
College tills the role of a repository h>r the adults of tomorrow. It would take a radical shift of thinking to suggest that people go to work for a few years before they take the a(·ademic plunge. Companies do not want to hire non-college grads, even though many put col­liege grads to work at high-school mentality jobs. 
The Observer 

Design Editor .. Tom Small -A real Tom 
Design Asststanl .... fum ~app -htm too 
l.avout .\"tajf.. .. ..... A couple of Toms 
1)·pesetter~ .. . ......... jim. Tom Rahhit .'Veu•s Editor ........................."Tom" Doyle Copy Editor ................... Dan B&TLayout ............................. Ed Konrady Editoritlls l.ayoul. ............ "Tom'' Hrown .\ports Copy Editor... . .... Mike Sullivan ND Dav Editor ..... .....................Jane Pantil SMC Day Editor .... ................ Tim Pelle" Typists.. . .............. Mike and Sarah Ad Design .. ....................... The usual Toms Pbotograpbt-r... . ...... Tom, llamil. Laura 
Guest Appearances....... Ill ANn & ~larisa. Tom Maclennan & a Iii' hrothcr who ju~t got acceprcdll. A couple of AD Toms, a Polish Tzom 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday through Froday and on home football Saturdays except durong exam ana vacat1on peroods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscropt1ons may b€' purchased for $25 per yedr 1St 5 per semester 1 by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a •ne•nber of The Associated Press All reprvduct1on roghts are reserved 
Seco~d rclass pustdge pdlu at Nurre Dame lna1ana 46556 
NOTRE DAME STt:DENT UNION 
PRESENTS 
SPRING BREAK rNDAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 11 .. 20. /98..1 
A rrturtrmrntr by ECHO TR.-4 VEL, INC MC151511F 
SIX PER ROOM 


$185 
FOlfR PER ROOM 


$199 
A QUALITY TRIP-A LOWPRICE·A GREATTIME 
rhl' l'ld/1 Hotel. (ocate(! nght In the middle of the ~lnp, IS dehn1teJy lht' place 10 be dunng ~Jlflnjl hrcaJ. A~~ an) one \l.h~ hil~ bet'n to Daytona The hott'l has a pool. b1g party deck, re•taurant. tour har~. color T\. a1r condllloned rooms and plenty of actt~'LI\C'1o. P1ctures are .nadahlc \~.here you ~•gn up Ou· motor coache~ are nothmg but the h1ghest quality h1ghwav ~·t•acht:\ Wt: ah.o (CI\·e vou mt)rc t•xtra' \l.ilh our Itip than anvonc else Don't blow nand go on d lo"'er ljUillll~ tnp iAST t'E.-IR OVER 8,000 PEOPLi ENJOYED THIS TRIP. 
SIGN l"P !\/OW AT THE TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.-FRI. IO AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor 

Inside Tuesday 


Thus the four year process is instiwtionalized. Insert youth at one end, a mature citizen pops out the other. In the meantime thousands ofdollars are spent. and much time is wasted on despised activities. 
Some have suggested an elimination ofgrades. l :nfor­tunately. humans are humans. and as the communists have learned, people need motivation to work. But this should not be done at the expense of learning. When a student feels forced to take a course, a prisoner mental­lity is set up which negates inquisitive thought. 
man a course schedule not unlike what he or she had in high school. Opportunities for under-grads to do real first hand learning is limited. Memorization and busv work arc the order of the dav. Of course. too much u~dergrad research would brui~c rhe juicy plum ofgraduate school. 
To continue the process ofpiledriving knowledge in. to minds i"s a waste. The abuse done to man's body of knowledge through alienation and apathy is tragic. ·\'i·e are going to have to rethink our concept of higher education and realize that there is no formula !()r wrs­dom. 
!lave you any creative juice~ meandering through that little mind of yours; Have vou an in­tense interest in spending man~ groo\'Y hours on rhe upper !loor of LaFortune. laying out a paper that all your friends will applaud in the morning·r Call or stop by the Obsert•er oftkes between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m.. The phone numbers arc 259-'i305. 239·S:S13. or 239-"'-1""'1. 
TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
Round tnp motor coach u.an~oponauon vo.J modern hiJhWa)' coaches 10 Daytona Beach. Aonda leaVUlg Fnda}, March II. 

• 
Sl!vc:n mght~ accommodattonsat tht~xctting Plaza Hotel of Dayton• Heach Located at 600 North Atlantic Ave, it is Ihe most dC"manded hotel on the slrlp at that time 

• 
A lrUl)' great ~ochedulc of actrvmcs mdudmg our faiTIDUS pool deck parucs and belly nop cont!st. 

• 
Optu:mal exeurswns ovailable to Disnt'y World, Epcot, and ~t'verlll otht'r anractJOn~ 

• 
\r;umerou~ bar and restaurant d•St.:ounts 


• The !tC'fYICt'~ of fullume eravel representauv~ 
• A.lltaxe~ and gratuUJes 
• (,uaranteed lt.Jtchenelle or CH;:eanfront naJiable at small ac.dn10nal charge (4 per room only! 

The Observer Tuesday, February 1, 1983 -page 3 
Prepares response 



Senate criticizes PACE 
By KEVIN BINGER Student evaluations of their ing the situation. Neu·• .\tajf professors were not taken into con­The process for <:valuating hall sideration in preparing the faculty rectors and selecting new rectors evaluation section of the PACE was also criticized. The Pace report
Co-educational. off-campus report and the Senate response states that "high standards" be ex­
housing is one recommendation notes that these student evaluations ercised in appointmt:nts and
being offered by the Student Senate are extremely important and should renewals. The Senate response
as an improvement to the PACE not have been ignored. The state~ that "high standards" is too
report's proposed "alternative response also notes the general lack ambiguous and recommends
housing arrangement~. including ofstudent faith that their evaluations specitk criteria for evaluating the
townhouse complexes." are taken seriously and that this pro­rectors. These criteria include his
The administration's PACE report cedure should be either re,·a(llped abilities to participate in hall life, act
was criticized by Student Body or abandoned. as a counselor, provide religous
President Lloyd Burke as being too 
The Pace report, the administra­guidance and act as a disciplinarian.
ambiguous. Burke-made this rc::mark At last night's Student Senate meeting, Dr. /lfichael Mond, Direc­at last night's Student Senate tor ofthe Counseling and Psvchological Serz•ices Center, discussed
tion's blueprint for the future of the The Senate also calls for student university, recommends that the evaluations to be a part of the
mc::eting. the recent merger oftwo campus health serz•ices to form the new 
process for renewing hall rectors.
Burke:: stressed that the Sc::nate's proposed alternative housing ar­C&PSC. Mond also described the new programs, such as the
The Senate's response is still in the
rangements he pursued for

response to the report should raise Counseling Hotline, that will be made az•ailable to students.
rough draft stage and is expected to
specific isssues and make specific "selected seniors." Questions were (Photo by Tom White).
be made public in the near future.
recommendations. raised by the Senate regarding the "We shouldn't answer a vague meaning ofthe term "selected." The report with a vague report," said Senate's response recommends that 
Finance forum 
Burke. "I don't want to turn on them the complexes be made co-ed. immediately, but there are no real 
The text of the St:natt: responsesolutions in the report." 



Futures market benefits noted
states, "Building ofthis typt: ofco-t:d 

Specific complaints being raised by the Senate in its response to the housing facility would bt: a physical The concept of futures markets "You have to be extremely care­
By GRETCHEN PICHLER Pace report also include the student­manifestation of the university News Staff developed over 150 years ago as an ful." he warned. "It is a highly potent 
reacher evaluation process. and am· placing trust in its students." agreement between grain dealers to market and it is powerful." He il­The Student Senate response also overcome both time and logistical
biguo~s plans for an on-campus Various concepts of the trade lustrated his point by quoting some
rt:commends that a new social ct:n­
problems they faced in the buying

social center. The Senate response market were explained last night by oflast year's market t1gures.and selling of grain. Evers said,"Thc
also recommends that a more stan· ter be built where the fieldhouse is Herbert Evers, president of Con­"There were 110 million con­well-established portions of futuresdardized procedure be developed currently situated. It calls for a tiCommodity Services, Inc.. at the tracts traded in 19H2. That is be-markets are bonds. bills, soybeans,
for choosing and renewing rectors professional consulting firm to be twentv-fifth annual finance forum. Evers 'conct:ntrated on the role that wheat, and gold." He explained that tween five and six trillion dollars
for the dormitories. hired immediately to begin evaluat­the futures markets are different worth of stock, or 1 l/2 times the
===============================the futures market has played in market trading since its origin 150 from the cash markets because "in 
GNP'" Evers remarked that although years ago. 
cash markets, you buy for immediate the open outCI')' transactions in 

"Futures markets are markets delivel')·. and receive the total. In

Honor award 
Chicago "look like Babylon with 

I which trade the same commodities futures, you receive only a down the stock market trades. The only payment." This concept enables far­5.000 souls shouting at each other, it
nominations made difference is in the way the com­mers to gamble on the future in an really does work!" The most impor­tant thing in dealing with the market
modities are expressed." he said. agreement with buyers. Evers also explained rollovers, he advised, is to "know what you're
Futures transactions are thc nominalBy THERESA HARDY faculty, and students hascs its deci­market hedging, and ways ofregulat­doing, or get a broker to do it. It is
value of a commodity simplified on 
.VewsStaff sion," said Sister M. Francesca Ken­ing the market. mindboggling."
paper. "It's just a piece of papt:r ­
nedy, chairman of the Saint :'1-lal')·'s 

nothing more. It is a price promise
The deadline for naming can­Committee on Academic Standards. r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
on a quantity."
didates l(>r The Saint Catherine "l am always amazed and Futures markets han· many ad­
Medal. given to an outstanding Saint ~ Lowczst Pricczs In Town! ~ 
impressed by the nominations we vantages over stock markets. One\1ary's sophomore or junior who has receive. l wish everyone could major advantage is the ease with
been nominated by her peers or a ~ How at IRISH GARDEHS: ~ 
know thc girls who are nominated. which transactions may be made. 
. i

faculty member. has been extended 
Their contributions make mc so "You can hedge it. trade it. and then 
to Thursdav. Feb. 5. ~ Flowczrs and Plants Galorcz ~ 
proud," she said. undo the hc::dge." he explained. The
The award is sponsored hy the ~ .
liquidity of futures is another a~set.
Last year's recipicnt. SuzanneCatholic llonor Society. Kappa (;am· 

Sommcrs, said "It was a gn.·at honor. "The real value of futures markets is ~ Rczmindvr• Valczntincz's Day ~ rna Pi. lxtters ofnomination are sub­
the markets that are at vour dis­
l had a sense of appreciation t<>r my

mitted to the college's Committee posal," he said. "This gives you an ~ Ordczr How to guarczntczcz rosczs ~ 
familv. friends. and the faculty."

on .\cademic Standan.b. 
edge." In fact. 95 percent of all 
'".\cadenuc ahilit\, personality, in­Each nommee and her parents futures contracts art· ~ SfiY I • 0 WITtl FLOWERS ~ 
never tegrity. values. and services to thc recci\ t' a lettt·r of congratulations 
deli\-ered. "This is an indication of ~ . ~ college, community, and Church are for the nomination. The award is price mechanisms with little of the 
l~..!~.l.~~_9..:.~!Q_..ctg~!Y.J.!t~!.~i~11!1~!._.J

the areas on which the committee, presented at the Honors Convoca­

commercial interests remaining." he 
of :~ ( t!l'"!! n;"tr:1t inn tion in \lay. 
said. 
In Congress 


Reagan budget faces hard times 
•

WASHINGTON (AP)-President the detkits, Congress will be O'Neill said he made a personal Reagan's SH·IH.5 million budget looking for reductions in spending appeal to Reagan to yield in his op­blueprint will tra\-el an "extremdy tor expensive strategic weapons. position to proposals tor federally difficult" path in Congrcss, the while sponsoring short and long­funded jobs to ease the unemploy­Republican chairman of the Senate term legislation to reduce the 10.8 ment rate. Budget Committee said yesterday. percent unemployment rate Generally, O'Neill quoted the And that, say Democrats, is putting it nationwide. president as saying, "we are not that mildly. Jones said House Democrats far apart" on the size of the budget. 
Leaders oil. both parties said would prepare a comprehensive But O'Neill said he disagrees. "I Congress will make significant jobs program designed to put mil· think we are wide appart," he told changes in Reagan's t1scal plan tor lions of Americans back to work reporters. 19H-t, cutting milital')· spending and quickly, while retraining those with adding money for jobs. outdated skills who work in such in­
The new budget proposal sent to dustrks as autos and steel. Capitol Hill yesterday is "short on Jones and Republican Sen. Pete La Mancha jobs and long on Pentagon spend· Domenici, of New Mexico. who ing," said Senate Democratic leader heads the Senate Budget Commit­
meeting planned 
Robert C. Byrd of West \"irginia. tee, both said Reagan's budget 
"This is the same stay-the-course schcme faces tough going. budget we have seen for the past Domenici said the Senate would two years." said Rep.JamesJones, 0-not disregard Reagan's budget 

for Wednesday 
0kla.. chairman ofthe House Budget proposal and start with its own plan Committee. -as it has in the past. He predicted 
(;enerallv, Democrats praised thc basic components of lkagan's Reagan ti>r making realiMic budget would sun·h·e. There will bc a meeting for economic forecasb over the next But he indicated therc would be anyone interested in working on set, 
tlve years, showing unemploym­no rcluctance to alter Reagan's lighting, publicity or housc crew for ment continuing at or over I 0 per­budget for 11scal 19H-t, which begins the Student Players production of cent and annual budget ddkits Oct.1. Man of La .\1ancha tomorrow night at approaching S200 billion through Reagan and his top cconomic I 0 p.m. in the Caron Court of the 
aides met with congressional Lafortune Student Center. The
19H5. "We think they are not using blue leaders.. including House Speaker meeting will be strictly organiza­smoke or mirrors." said Assistant Thomas P. O'Neill and Senate 
tional. with the main purpose of in­House Democratic L . .:ader Jim Majority Leader Howard Baker, as troducing those who wish to work Wright. the budget was being formally on the show to the producer. Bring a notebook.
But Dt:mocrats said that to reduce presented to Congress. 

SMC ORIENTATION 
Applications are now being accepted for: 
Assistant Chairman Social Chairman 
Big Sister/Little Sister Off-Campus Chairman 
Chairman Transfer Chairman 
General Committee 
Workers Applications are available in the Student Activities Office (166 LeMans Hall) 
Deadline for applications---Wed. Feb. 9, 1983 
Please sign up for an interview when you return your application. 


....
.... 
.. ~ 
The Observer 


--~~ -------------­

Tuesday, February 1, 1983 -page 4 
• • . E1tdowment 
the university receives, Kobayashi odic reviews, especially by outside said. "I <:an't rt:ally say that this b a committees. graduate students for assistance. good measure of whether tht·se "One very important recom· 
"At any college or university, the department~ are ~trong in research mt·ndation ofthe PACE report i~ that faculty member!> alone do not do all activity." .\lore out.~ ide aid might he programs of marginal quality ht: the re~earch." ~aid francis availahlt· in some areas than others, suspt:nded." Kobaya~hi. assbtant vice president hut the need t(>r such funding in !~ut Gordon said that no specific tor,.,. research and ~ponsored each area depends upon the kind pr•.>grams have heen targeted for 
'programs. "The faculty member has and stages of re~earch involved, he su:;pension. to depend upon research assbtants explained. "We got rid of the one marginal to carry out some of the more "Research varies from straight department we had in the mid· routine aspects of the research." library research, to just sitting hack 1970's. That was the progra'll of 
Kobayashi gave this example of and thinking, to working in the graduate studies in education," he how a decline in the number of laboratory, to actually testing out an said. graduate as~istants available affects idea," Kobayashi said. Gordon does not anticipate any faculty research: "Suppose a faculty He also pointed out that support eliminations for the present, but said member submits a proposal to the from outside sources has been on the situation may change over time. National Science Foundation, with the decline. This decrease can be at· Commenting on the strengths and provisions for the participation of a trihuted in part to the reduction in weaknesses of various departments, post-doctoral assistant, and a num· government funding, he said. he expressed a special concern for ber of research assistants and In addition to calling for an the social sciences and said he has graduate studems. The grant comes upgrading of the doctoral programs, the least worries about the engineer· through and the faculty member the PACE report also recommends ing department. starts his work and tries to recruit periodic evaluations through both "We are lucky at Notre Dame in the assistants. If there are none to be inside and outside studies. that our problems are the kind that found, his research is going to be "We are thinking ofgaining input money can solve," Gordon said. hampered." from the alumni of certain depart· "The structure is right. What we 
Commenting on the statistics in ments as well as students in those really need is more energy -more the annual report which breaks departments," Gordon said. "I think dollars -into the system." down the amount of outside money the important part of these reviews "I view the University .of Notre 
continuedfrom page 1 

,. 
than a few weeks" to accomplish its
continuedfrom page I 

goals. The Keenan junior believes "extend the hours of the gameroom the "original concept" of the Senate and the Huddle" so they would be was "different than it is now." the same as parietals, and "continue Riley feels the Senate must work pressure for a new Student Center." to accomplish its goals so the stu· 
Hank supports "checking into the dents will have "increased con· feasibility of Cable lV" on campus. fidence" in it. He says, "once the He would publish a newsletter to student body realizes the Senate is "provide better information to the involved, they will be behind it, and students" about Senate activities. the administration will have to lis· Finally, he believes "better organiza· ten." He believes the Senate should tion" is needed to increase the ef· "take advantage of every oppor· fectiveness of the Senate with the tunity" to be a "real voice." administration. The government/capp major says 
the administration "shouldn't be 
Bob Riley says the Senate needs surprised" at the failure of Under· people with "persistance". who will graduate Night at Senior Bar. He says "keep knocking on doors" for "more giving undergraduates Sunday 



Twenty-Fifth Annual Finance Forum 
gpongotted b~~ 
t4t Notreiamt1J1inanre<trluh 
CCE Auditorium 


Feb. 1 8:00 pm Charles R. Schwab Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. 
is what the faculty learns about it· Dame as being at a point where it is self." ·.excellent at the undergraduate level Assistant Vice Presidem for Ad· and has the potential tobecome ex· vanced Studies John O'Fallon cellent at the graduate level, but is
• • • Motivation 
strongly supports the idea of peri· not there yet," O'Fallon said. 

... Boycott 
continuedfrom page 1 

boycott, Velasquez said, "We are going to continue to boycott Campbell until we have a collective bargaining agreement which will al· low the farmers and the migrant workers to participate in the col· lective bargaining process." 
Although FLOC has clearly not ac· hieved its goals concerning trilateral negotiations, Velasquez remains op· timistic: "In terms of effect, I think that Campbell is begining to show. They told us for three years that they would never talk to us, and all of a sudden we get a call and they tell us that they want to talk. But they just want to talk, not to negotiate. It is just a matter oftime." 
~ ~
................................................. 
Rocco's Hair · 


i]styling 

531 N. Michigan St.. 

South Bend 
Phone 233-4957 ~ ~..................................................~ .. 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! Omega Productions, Inc. is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type of music for any type of event. Parties are our specialty. Custom music 
programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 
rnl IL~ Hlril[[]AlHc [[)HlJ't@ ~lJI':lPUTER~ZEO 



Dating 

Service~ 
Find a Date ¥\/Don 't Hesitate 

nights was "not a whole-hearted at· tempt" to solve the social space 
Buy

problem. He believes the renovation of Chautauqua was "a good at· tempt," but "only a small step." 
Riley wants the Senate to be more involved in university decisions, such as bringing cable TV on campus. He says the Senate should 
work on reopening the Knights of Columbus building for students' rental and investigate why prices are so high at the bookstore and infir· 
mary. A final proposal of his would 
be to provide a teacher complaint 
service for students and a manual 
which would describe teachers and 
courses. 


...................................................................................................................





I ~ ~TI.~NIJQ.N..J.qN.!.QR$..!..1 ~ 
Seating Reservations for 
]unton panents' Weekenb pnestbent's btnnen 
will beheld Monday, January 31 Tuesday, February 1 
7-9 p.m. in the Nau. 
NOTE: *Maximum of 61.D.'s per person 
~......................................~.~9.~.~~~-~:~.~.~.~.~.?..~:.~~.~~.~...........................~ 


Go ND BasketbQIIets, BeQt LQSQIIe 
~ 
The Observer Tuesday, February 1, 1983-page 5 


Bush reads Reagan letter to Europeans 
BERLIN ( AP) -In an open letter to the people of Europe, President Reagan said yesterday he was willing to meet with Soviet leader Yuri V Andropov to sign a pact "banning 
U.S. and Soviet intermediate-range, land-based nuclear missile weapons from the face of the earth." 
In Washington, Deputy White House Press Secretary Lyndon Allin said Reagan was not making a new proposal but was simply stating a willingness to sign a pact with Andropov if the Soviet Union ac­cepts the U.S. "zero-option" proposal -already rejected by the Kremlin. 
"b . I'

anmng...Jrom the face ofthe earth ... " 
Vice President George Bush read Reagan's letter after delivering a speech of his own in Berlin on the second day ofa European tour. 
The new element in the proposal was Reagan's willingness to meet with Andropov "wherever and whenver he wants" in order to sign such a pact. 
"I make this offer out of a convic­tion that such an agreement would serve the interest of both sides and, most importantly, that the people of Europe want nothing more. I urge :\1r. Andropov to accept it," Reagan said in the letter. "Just as our allies can count on the L:nited States to defend Europe at all costs, you can count on us to spare no effort to reach a fair and meaningful agree­ment that. will reduce the Soviet nuclear threat." 
Bush. in his own speech, said W es­tern Europe must be willing to sta­tion hundreds of new nuclear rockets on its soil to deter war. 
"If we are to be credible in our arms negotiations, the alliance must be united in its determination to deploy the intermediate force sys-

Budget compromise foreseen 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan sent Congress his $8-l8. S bil­lion budget for fiscal 198-i yester­day, declaring "we have gone far in restoring order to t.he chaos" despite an estimated det1cit of S189 billion. Leaders of both parties predicted congressional changes in the Reagan plan. 
Congressional leaders made clear Reagan's proposed cuts in social programs and his S;'IO billion in­crease for defense would would run into trouble. 
Hou~e Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass .. also renewed his call for a ss billion to s~ billion jobs measure to combat I0.8 percent joblessness -the type of job­creating program Reagan oppo~es. 
<;en. Pete: Domenici. R-N.:\-1., chair­man of the Senate Budget Committee. and other GOP leaders also said they expected changes. "Is 
there  room  for  compromise'"  
Domenici  asked.  - "I  think  the  
~~~1swer's yes."  

: k and other Republicans main­t;.ined, however. that Congress would adopt the broad outlines of Reagan's budget-cutting approach as it struggles to stem the tide of red ink. 
The Republican and Democratic leaders and other intluential mem­bers of Congress went to the White House vesterday for a budget brief­ing. Presidentiial Spokesman Larry Speakes quoted Reagan as saying the meeting "began on a frit>ndly note, ended on a friendh· note:." Speakes refused to provide details. 
tern if necessary," he said. 
Bush warned the growing European peace movement that Moscow's plans for limiting missiles would legitimize the "awesome levels of nuclear fire power directed by the Soviets against Europe." 
The Bush trip is designed to coun­ter growing opposition in Europe to the deployment of the new U.S. missiles and the plan has become an issue in the March 6 West German election. 
West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl told reporters he was grateful for the open letter and "this readi­ness for a summit falls on an open ear and finds an outstretched hand." 
Bush spoke at a dinner given by West Berlin Mayor Richard von Weizsaecker which was attended by about 600 dignitaries. Berlin was the second stop on Bush's 12-day European tour. 
Bush hammered the Soviets 
throughout his speech, calling the 
Berlin Wall. which he is to visit 
tomorrow, "a monument to a great 
evil," and reminding listeners of 
Soviet intervention in Hungary and 
Afghanistan. 
"Nothing infuriates the president 
and me more than the suggestion we 
are preparing to tight a nuclear war. 
because we are not preparing to 
fight a nuclear war. We are prepar­
ing to deter war ...,"Bush said. 
He also said a sound agreement must preclude the Soviet Union from returning mobile missiles to European bases on short notice. 
Clean Air Act 






Indiana cited for violations 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Federal 
funding for highways or "clean air" 
grants could be cut off in Lake, Por­
ter, Clark and Floyd counties if a U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency 
decision to disapprove their clean 
air plans goes through, an EPA 
spokesman said yesterday. 
One or both of the federal allot­
ments also could be reduced in 
Marion. St. Joseph, Elkhart and Allen 
counties for failure to meet by Dec. 
31, 1982, federal standards set out 
by the Clean Air Act or to satisfac­torily implement a revised clean air plan, Joseph Paisie, a spokesman from the EPA region S office in Chicago, said in a telephone inter­view yesterday. 
In addition, those and five other India~a counties could be subjected to a construction ban if it's proven portions of their counties did not meet the regulations, he said. The other counties are Dearborn, DuBois, Vigo, LaPorte and Wayne. 
The counties, or portions ofthem, 
were cited for failure to meet stan­dards for one or more of tlve pol­lutants: total suspended particulates, ozone, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide and nitrogen dioxide. 

The highway funding sanction could be imposed primarily for areas not attaining carbon monoxide or 
ozone standards. although there are 
Housing contracts .due today 
Student Government Housing Commissioner~George Valencia an­nounced that on-campus housing contracts for Notre Dame students are due feb. 2 by 'i p.m. Those stu­dents who do not return the form will not be housed on-campus next )·ear. No exceptions will be made. 

exemptions within the law for areas involved in safetv, air quality im­provement and mass transit projects. 
The EPA yesterday gave notice of federal rulemaking. which means the state has -iS days to respond to the charges, then the EPA will gather and analvze public comments to determine if attainment occurred. Paisie said. If the EPA decides the: 
areas did not attain the standards by Dec. :'11, 1982, then it will imple­ment the construction han or the funding sanctions. 
Paisie said the main reason the EPA wants to disapprove plans tor Lake, Porter. Clark and Floyd counties is that they didn't imple­ment motor vehicle inspection and maintenance prograas by last Dec. 
31. The stipulation tor them to implement the program was made lastJuly, when the EPA granted their petitions for extensions in meeting the clean air sandards, he added. 

SENIORS May 1983 is just months away, what next? CONSIDER an alternative 
A I year postgraduate experience stressing: service, simple living, and Christian community. HCAvolunteers are in several American cities. 
for more information contact: Mary Ann Roemer, .239·7949 Center for Social Concerns 
Applications are now auailable. Deadline for application Feb. 8, 1983 


the 35th anniversary of the assassination ofIn­dian independence leaderMohandes Gandhi. ( AP Photo) 

Within economic structure 

U.S. industry adapts to changes 
management. Carey explained that

By MARY EILEEN KENNEY 
increasing foreign competition and 

News Staff 
slacking C.S. technological innova­tion were just two ofthe factors that 

James H. Carey, executive vice­led the Industries Sector of the 
president and head of the corporate Chase Manhattan Bank. to imple­Industries Sector of Chase Manhat­ment global stategy in maximizingtan Bank, stressed the importance of funds. 
the adaptation of United States in­He said that hecause there now 
dustl}' to structural change yester­exist fewer isolated corporationday afternoon. 
markets, U.S. businesses are more 

He cited several incidents during selective in their choice ofa banking
the past decade which have changed 
tlrm. Thus, in Chase Manhattan's cul­

the economic structure: ofindustries tivation of better customer relation­
and which has stimulated the need ships. it· is setting out to meet the 
for improved national money challenges of the global market. 
According to Mr. Carey, U.S. in­dustries and corporations must strive to surpass their competitors while simultaneously surviving the 
potentially  destructive  forces  of  
structural change.  
The  Finance  Forum,  which  is  

sponsered by the Finance Club of 
the University of Notre Dame, will 
continue tomorrow evening in the 
Center for Continuing Education 
Auditorium. Charles R. Schwab, chairman and chief executive of Charles R. Schwab & Company, Inc., will speak on his specialty, securities industry. 

-------------~---­




Business & Technology_r_ues_day,_Febr_uary_l,19_83_Pa_ge6 
. 
'. 
'I 
Econo:rit1cUpdate 
Mishawaka United Auto Workers of Local 

S have accepted, by a reported 2-1 margin, a wage cue intended to help AM General Corp. win a S I. S billion military contract. More than I, 100 emploves reportedlv voted Sunday night to alter their 6-month-old !abo~ contract if AM General wins the tlerce bidding war for the Army's High Mobility Multi-Purpose Wheeled Vehicle ( HMMWV), nicknamed the "Hummer-" "We did not re-write the contract," said Odell "Duke" Newburn, Local S president, referring to one televised news report. This was a supplement to our contract that would put the company in a better light (to secure) the Army's contract." IfAM General wins the Army contract, it would mean the re-opening of its Mishawaka plant. closed since 1978. Newburn ex­plained the supplementary clause calling for a wage reduction would onlv affect those workers called back to work at the Misha­waka plant and would not affect workers at the South Bend plant. Newburn said that in all, about 400 employees would be put back to work, including about 250 former Mishawaka plant employees who are either under-employed or who have moved to other jobs since AM General ceased prouuction of buses at the Mishawaka plant. ­
AP 
Wall Street Update 
A late wave ofbuyinglifted the stock market to its third straight gain today as investors studied President Reagan's budget proposal for tlscal 1984. Trading was moderate. The Reagan budget for the year beginning next Oct. 1 projected relatively slow economic recovery in the months ahead, and gaping government deficits. But with all the somber notes it sounded, analysts said, the budget contained no big surprises for investors. There was more upbeat news for stock traders last Friday, when the Commerce Department reported that its index of leading economic indicators rose l.S percent in December, for its biggest increase in more than two years. With that barometerofbusiness activity showing gains in eight of the last nine months, a good many economists said it was likely that a recovery from the recession had begun. The DowJones average of 30 industrials climbed 10.95 to 1,075.70. Advances outpaced declines by about 4 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 67.14 million shares, against 89.49 million in the previous session. The NYSE's composite index rose .40 to 
83.75. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up 2.50 at 362.39. -AP 

THERE IS STILL TIME TO JOIN THE NEW BALLROOM DANCE CLASS 
Wednesday, Feb. 2 will be the last opportunity to join the Ballroom Dance class that just started at Regina Hall on Saint Mary's Campus from 6:30pm to 8:00pm 
This class is being taught by Ray Sexton from Indianapolis and the total cost is only $25 for five 
weeks q-~
Sign up now in the •., Saint Mary's Student O . . . . .r-h Activities Office '-.__;,/ 284-4561 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY. 


In germfree environment 



Pollard researches cancer in rats 
By TOM WEYENBERG 
B&TReporter 
Cancer research may be hazard­
ous to your rat's health. At Notre 
Dame's Lobund Laboratories, nearly 
2000 rats annually are subjected to 
cancer-related experimentation in a 
germfree environment -experi­
ments which parallel the causes and 
effects ofcancer in humans. 
According to Dr. Morris Pollard, 
director ofthe Lobund Laboratories, 
germfree research "cleans up the ex­
perimental system," providing 
meaningful, reproducible results by 
eliminating the possible complica­
tion of infection. Among Dr. Pol­
lard's current research projects are 
studies of prostate, intestine, breast, 
lung, liver, and bone marrow cancer, 
metastasis (the spread of cancer 
through the body) and the relation 
between diet and longetivity. 
Dr. Pollard's second concern, 
besides cancer research, is the fur­
ther development of germfree 
research in such areas as treatment 
for human burn victims, protecting 

the environment from hazardous or­ganisms, and improving the quality oflaboratory animals. 
While all scientitlc research is ex­pensive, germfree research is espe­cially so, because of the high cost of maintaining the animals in a perfect­ly clean environment -the animals' food, water,·and air must be free of any microorganisms. 
Dr. Pollard's research is funded by groups such as the National Institute of Health, the American Cancer Society, and the March of Dimes; the grants total approximately HOO,OOO annually. 
Dr. Pollard's research group has developed an extremely accurate model cancer system for studying metastasis, one of the most serious complications of cancer in humans. The intense search for a model animal system resulted, through a collaborative effort by Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory and the Chemistry and Biology depart­ments, in a correlation between metastasis and a blood enzyme, known as plasminogen activator. The experiment utilized rats special­ly bred to spontaneously develop prostate cancer, a system which closely resembles the disease in humans. 
They found that when the cancer spreads throughout the rat's body, it predictably attacks certain target or­gans in which fresh tumors develop, eventually killing the host. The metastasis was accompanied in each case with high concentrations of the plasminogen activator. While the cancer cells that metastasize produce high levels of plasminogen activator, Dr. Pollard said that the cells of tumors that don't. metas­tasize produce very little, if any, of this enzyme. "There is a relationship 
between the capability for metas­
tasis and production of this enzyme. 
~ow we have to tlnd out if this is the 
agent responsible for metastasis, or 
only one of a group of agents that 
might be responsible," he explained. 
In another line of research, per­
haps of more immediate interest to 
the Notre Dame student, Dr. Pollard 
has shown that there is a signitlcant 
connection between eating habits 
and longetivity. Normal germfree 
rats, on a full diet, live an average of 
1050 days, SO percent longer than 
rats outside the germfree environ­
ment. When the lifespan of the 
germfree rats exceeded 900 days, 
however, 90 percent of them had 
developed liver tumors. Since 
younger rats did not have the 
tumors, the liver tumor has now 
become the "marker" in this study of 
diet, aging, and cancer. While the 
cause ofthe liver tumors is as yet un­
known, it is possibly due to trace 
contaminants in the commercially­
prepared food supply. 
On the same diet -only 25 per­
cent restricted -the germfree rats 
were still in excellent condition at 
l 100 days. According to Dr. Pollard; 
the eventual lifespan is unknown, 
and possibly will be at least twice 
that of the rats on a full diet. The 
research group is now investigating 
the causes of the increased lifespan. 
So at that next four-course dinner, it 
may be smart to push away that last 
serving. 

... 
Dr. Morris Pollard (right) is performing a bone this imformation affects you, see Tom Weyen· marrow transplantation experiment on a rat un· berg's story above. (Lobund Laboratories, Notre der germfree conditions. For more on Dr. Pollard, Dame) his experimentation of cancer on rats and how 
First time successfully 

Interferon controls kidney cancer 
HOUSTON (AP) -Human inter­the breast, lymph glands and bone, feron has been used successfullv for have been found to be sensitive to the tlrst time to control kidney .can­interferon, said Dr. Jordan U. Gutter­
cer, a highly lethal type oftumor that man, leader of the team conduqing previously hadn't responded to any -the study. kind oftherapy. All of the patients had cancer that 
Doctors at The University of had originated in the kidneys and Texas M.D. Anderson Hospital and spread to the lung, liver or bone, or Tumor Institute reported in the all three. February issue of the Journal Cancer Gutterman said "a significant Research that 12 of 19 kidney can­number" of the patients in the 12­cer patients who received massive month study experienced a reduc­doses of natural interferon ex­tion in the size of tumors or a halt in perienced favorable results. tumor growth or spread. 
Interferon is a protein the body The doctor emphasized that the 
naturally produces in response to tlndings do not mean the disease can viruses. Some other diseases, includ­be cured at this time. ing chronic leukemia and cancers of "This is an important advance for 
this type of tumor," he said . ...:. e have more work to do. hut wr· have a foot in the door." 
The published !>tudy Lkalt only with the effects of kidney tumors that had spread to the lungs, but Gut­terman said later, unpublished results show that tumor~ in the liver and bone also respond to the inter· feron therapy. 
Kidnev cancer had alwavs been incurabl~ and invariablv fatal, Gut­terman said. It causes about 8,500 deaths annually and the American Cancer Societv estimates there will be 18,200 ne~ cases of thi~ type of cancer in I983. Most patients die within two years ofa diagnosis. 



Editorials 
Tuesday, February 1, 1983-page 7 
Reagan's statement lacks concern for truth 
Everyone has heard the stories concerning American tourists in Europe, who, if con­fronted with a language ·barrier, believe that everyone will eventually understand English -if it is spoken slowly enough. While Presi­dent Reagan may not have had the difficulties ofthe typical American tourist, he suffers from similar delusions. He seems to believe that the veracity of his statements depends, not on the 
Thomas Melsheimer 
Inside Tuesday 

inherent facts of the situation, but on the quality of his speechmaking. If he says some­thing often, on national television, and punctuated by folksy wit. it assumes the stat­ure of fact. One need not call on the almost hackneyed images ofOnvell's 1984 to under­stand the implications ofthis problem. Reagan is not Big Brother but his almost casual regard for the actual meanings of words and the life situations they represent demonstrate a lack of concern for the truth and a lack of regard for the intelligence of the American people. His recent State of the Union message 
provides exemplary support for this claim. 
He began the address by acknowledging the miserable state of the economy and the havoc that unemployment has wracked on the lives of thousands of American families. "For too many of our fellow citizens -farmers, steel and auto workers, lumbermen, black teenagers, and working mothers -this is a painful period. We must all do everything in our power to bring their ordeal to an end." 
In his continuing efforts to end the plight of these long suffering individuals, President Reagan has proposed a 15 percent reduction in school breakfast, summer food service, and child-care food programs. In addition, the latest budget proposal suggests terminating Aid for Families with Dependent Children benetlts when the child reaches the age of 16 -present benetlts include children up to the age of 18. In another cost saving measure, new administrative guidelines would count the value of food stamps as income for the poor, thus narrowing their eligibility for other government assistance programs. 
President Reagan rightly hailed the Social Security reform bill as a major step toward saving the system. It is a good example of bipartisan compromise. Still, Reagan's rhetoric does not meet reality in this area. "And, in supporting it, we keep an important promise to the American people: the integrity of the system will be preserved -and no one's payments will be reduced'' But this statement is not quite accurate. Retirees with benetlts from other sources totalling S20,000 or more anoually will be subject to a tax on their Social Security checks. Of course, the proposal is probably an equitable one, yet cer­tain people's benetlts will, in essence, be reduced -although the:reduction will be an indirect one. To suggest otherwise is simply false. 
Reagan's speech then moved on to another favorite topic -·defense spending. 
"Contrary to the drumbeat we have been hearing for the last few months, the detlcits we face are not rooted in defense spending. Taken as percentage of the GNP, our defense spending happens to be only -i/S of what it was in 1970." Unfortunately, Reagan rather casually omited certain facts germane to this generalization. Since the United States was in the middle of a massive war effort in Vietnam in 1970, one would hope that military spend­ing would be lower as a total part of GNP; defense spending remains incredibly high in this period ofsupposed peace. 
The large budget-detlcits have nothing to do with defense, argued Mr. Reagan, for "our detlcits come from the uncontrolled growth of the budget for domestic spending." The economics may be sound, but the logic is suspect. Take the example of an overweight person who steadily indulges in candy, ice cream. and pastries and says something like, "All my excess weight comes from eating too much candy. If I stop eating candy, I will become thin." The fact is, it is this person·~ total overeating that causes his weight problem and selecting one particular element is purely arbitrary. The Federal Budget devotes billions of dollars to defense and so­cial programs -selecting one as the sole cause of budget detlcits is both unfair and 
misleading. 
Later iQ the speech, as Reagan enumerated 
the successes of his administration, he 
claimed that. "We have nut in.place a defense 
program that redeems the neglect of the past decade." In other words, Reagan wants to have it both ways. Defense spending is not that high compared with past budgets, but it has to be high to correct the stinginess ofpast budgets. Curiouser and curiouser. 
One ofReagan's great strengths has been his ability to disassociate himself from the effects of his policies. While he has alienated ultra­conservative groups, labor and blacks, the public at large has, until recently, perceived Reagan to be a good-natured, likable fellow. But recent polls indicate that Reagan's popularity has ebbed somewhat -perhaps a sign that he can no longer step back from his policies. Similarly, one might wonder how much longer Reagan can separate his rhetoric from reality. How long can he claim that America is "on the mend" and at the same time admit that unemployment is likely to hover around 10 percent tor the next year? How long can he claim to be a peacemaker and yet continue to support huge defense in­creases? How long can he suggest tlscal con­straint in government and yet predict massive detlcits? Eventually, Reagan's words will catch up with him and the strange paradoxes· of his speechmaking will become apparent. Of course, Reagan's ultimate problem stems not from his speechwriters, but from his politics. After awhile, even the most patient Frenchman will be forced to turn his back on the stubborn American tourist struggling to communicate. When will the American public choose to do the same? 



P.O. Box Q 
Freeze dangers 
DearEditor: 
The recent appearance of Molly Rush, member of the Plowshares 8 anti-nuclear group, on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses brought up some interest­ing point concerning the present nuclear weapons debate on both campuses. 
Mrs. Rush's strong support of the Uni­lateral Nuclear Freeze Referendum and her reasons for being part ofthe anti-nuke move­ment were the topic ofthe gathering. 
She repeatedly stated that the United States is the primary offender of the nuclear arms scenario and that she recommends mental and spiritual opposition to the American nuclear arms system. However, • flaws in her position on this matter are ap­parent. 
Her logic u~ed in stating that the American government is planning a tlrst­strike offensive is hardly sound. If the U.S. military did not aim its weapons at Soviet silos, what credibility would our defense system have? Furthermore, the positioning ofour missile~ has recently changed, shifting from population centers to military and government installations so as to destroy the root of the enemy, the military, instead of innocent citizens. 
Mrs. Rush's belief that money spent on nuclear weapons is interchangeable with the problem of world hunger is absurd. Money that is not spent is not going to be immediately a:: .I fully rerouted into eliminating world pov(~rty. That may be un­fortunate. but ir b u:ality. 
The fact that Molly Rush was one of the women consulted by the American Bishops in their war and peace·study is frightening. This woman has been arrested, tried, and convicted ofa crime; spent three months in prison and may return. That the bishops woufd take the opinion of an adult who il­legally enters an industrial plant to destroy public property with a hammer and baby bottles full of blood under her coat is more than strange. And that they would consult her while drafting a document that will af­fect millions of American Catholics lives is unbelievable. 
Mrs. Rush's love of the human race and concern tor its well being is commendable. But her complete lack of trust in America and American leaders seems to point toward a misguided do-gooder finally tlnding a cause to believe in. 
Her blind belief and that of the Unilateral Nuclear Freeze Movement to "trust the Rus­sians" is without intellectual or realistic sub­stantiation. The identification of Catholicism with the movement is warped though it has its basics in good intentions. One can only hope that the ND-SMC com­munity and the United States as a whole will realize the tremendous dangers of unilateral nuclear disarmament. 

Hockey resources 
DearEditor: 

It is in my considered'opinion that a multi­million dollar university such as the Univer­sity of Notre Dame has both the ability and th~ funds to support a· Division I hockey 
I 

program. I believe that it is obvious that the resources available to the Administration were not properly evaluated or used by those in the Administration. Two years ago, Father Edmund P. Joyce had stated that both he and the administration would support the hockey·program I I 0 percent. The hockey program has gotten I 0 percent and is waiting to see the other I00 percent. How can schools such as Miami of Ohio and Howling Green support a Division I hockey program and a multi-million dollar univer­sity such as Notre J:.?ame be unable to sup­port their hockey program' I am also appalled at the totally unprofessional man­ner in which FatherJoyce handled the entire situation. In Dulac it states, "Notre Dame is a prestigious, reputable university." However, after seeing how the Administration at this prestigious university has tactlessly dropped the hockey program without the least bit of 
concern for the players and coaches in­
volved, I must question the true validity of the statement, "reputable university." 
Michael V. Barry• Pangborn Hall 


Letters to the Editor 
Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number and signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­nyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to per­sons other than the editor are not accept­able. All letters are subject to editing. 



Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, 1.\' -i6556 

Editor-in-Chief..............................Michaei Monk Business Ma11ager..........................Tony Aiello
The Obsen,er ts the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the llni­
.Hanaging Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.... .Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame •lu Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
F-..:eculiPe !\'ews Editor ..............David Dziedzic AdvertisingManager.... .......Chris Owen
the polica.:.' ·tdministration of eitl-Jer institution. The news is reported as ac 
.'i.tfC Exi!cutive Edttor............ Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager....... . .....Maura Murphy
curately and a.•. 'JJ<:( riw·!.y as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion or a 
.~ports Editor................ ...... Chris Needles Circulation Manager..... .... Mark Miotto
majorit) of t'le biiH,ri:II Board. Commentaries. ktters, and the Inside Colum·n depict 
Editorials Editor ......................... .. Paul McGinn Systems /Hanager ........ .. .....Bruce Oakley
the views ofthCtr au1i10r~. Column space is available to all rnembers ofthe community, 
Features Editor. }" 'eph Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ... .....!{ache! Blo,.m I1eunded November 3, 1966
(219)239-5303 

r 
r 

~j1()1"tS:f1:=~:=i=e~~~S========~====================T=u=e=sd=ay='=Fe=b=ru=ary==I=,I=9=83===p=ag=e=s
Bv The ( Jhsen•er and The .4ssudated Press 
Ken Karcher, the former Notr<: Dame backup quarter­back. has transfered to Tulane University, The Obseroer learned yes­terday. The 5-l 0 sophomore had been rumored to be going to schools such as Pitt, Texas A&M, and West Virginia after leaving Notre Dame before the beginning of the second semester. -The Observer 
Notre Dame-Fordhatn ticketsfor the Feb. 10 
game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half-price to students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game ofa doubleheader with Manhattan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are $5. -The Obseroer 
The women's golf team is holding a meeting at 6:30p.m. tomorrow in Corby Hall. Call Mary Beth at 1277 orJulie at 7905 ifyou cannot attend. --The Observer 
Any remaining participants in the men's un­dergrad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should please call the NVA office at 2 39-61 00 to report results and keep the tournament moving. -The Obseroer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be meeting tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the St. Ed's chapel. All are 
invited. -The Observer 
NCAA-VFY volunteers are reminded to pick up their tickets for Saturday's South Carolina game in Steve Orsini's office any time this week. If you have any questions, contact one of the student directors. -The Obserr-er 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will 
hold its first meeting on Sunday, feb. 6 at 1:00 p.m. in the weightroom on the third tloor of the Rockne Memorial. Attendance is very important..'vlemberships will he taken and special cluh hours and policies will be explained. Anvone interested in weightlifting, bodybuilding, or powerlifting (no experience necessary) is welcome. Ifvou are interested. hut are unable to attend, call Matt at I 581 or Pat at 8677. -The Obserr•er 
The Notre Dame women's swim team 
will play host to Ball State today at the Rockne Memorial Pool. The Irish women, returning home after splitting two meets on a road trip to Canada and New York, enter the meet with an even -t-'i record. 
-The Obserr•er 
The Saint Mary's basketball team travel to 
Goshen College today in an attempt to break its four-game losing streak. The Belles currently hold a 5-8 record. -Tbe Observer 

TAC accused 


Salazar tells (]~f bribes 
NEW YORK (AP) Alberto Chriss told him. 
jeopardize TAC's and my own stand­Salazar, the fastest marathoner in his­Salazar's comments came during a ing with the IAAF (the International tory, charged yesterday that officials telephone hookup from his home in Amateur Athletic Federation, the of The Athletics Congress, the Eugene,Ore., to a luncheon of the world governing body for the Indianapolis-based national govern­Metropolitan Track Writers' As­sport)_ ing body for track and field, had of­sociation. 
"Likewise, no members of thefered him a bribe of S50,000 to Chriss was quoted in yesterday's T AC staff have ever made such a$60,000 to run in the Los Angeles New York Times as calling Salazar's proposal, either to Mr. Salazar, norMarathon May 14. charge "an incorrect assertion." 
any of his coaches or hisSalazar, who said he rejected the It doesn't "even have a kernel of representatives."
offer made late last year, said the offi­truth in it," he said. 
Salazar satd the offer was not madecials were Ollan Cassell, TAC ex­
Attempts by The Associated Press 
to him directly, but was madeecutive director, and Alvin Chriss, a 
to reach Chriss by telephone were 
through his coach, Bill Dellinger.
lawyer who manages the trust fund 
unsuccessful. His secretary said he 
Dellinger reportedly was out offor road running and track and field 
deferred all comments co'ncerning 
the country and not available forathletes under TAC's jurisdiction. the matter toTAC. 
comment.

Chriss and Cassell denied th<: al­
At TAC's headquarters in In­legations. dianapolis, Cassell said, "This is an­Salazar said he decided to disclose "They were willing to pay me the offer because TAC had criticized
other of Alberto's histrionic $50,000 to $60,000" to run in the lessvns," a reference to Salazar's him for not running in the Boston Los Angeles race, Salazar said. "They comments after winning the 1981 Marathon, which would qualify were trying to bribe me." New York City Marathon in which United States runners for the in­
He said HO,OOO of that money augural World Championships at
he called the organization 
would be for conducting a clinic the "hypocrites" and "thieves." Helsinki Aug. -:"-14. Salazar had re-day before the race. Salazar said "This is not true," Cassell added. quested that his victory in the 1982 Chriss suggested that would be one "I've never spoken to Mr. Salazar in New York City Marathon be his 
way of circumventing TAC's rules person or on the telephone. lfl were qualifying race for the Champion­against accepting money outright to speak to Mr. Salazar, it wouldn't ships. TAC's Long Distance Running for running. The rest of the money be to propose something that would Committee rejected the request at could be put into a trust fund for violate the rules of The Athletics 
the group's convention at Philadel­Salazar, the distance runner claimed Congress, something that would phia in December. 
Racquetball tournament 
Mart1nez/Rudd1ck (8648) v. Sch1eri/Mmondo Olson/Wosczyng (3770) v. Brown/E1sengruber 

(3667) 13261). Fahng/Durb1n v Schneider/WinS (1827) Bert1no/Kruse (3770j v Bornemann/Potnsatte Sulen11c/Wolf v Meak1n/Desauln1ere (6864) 16756) 
Hannegan/Hannegan (8891) v. C1ndnc/Mar1en Lavelle/Mar'~'="~ ~ll645) v o·roole/Joneti t83241 (7829) 
Mlchaux/Gayhardt v bye 0 Bnen/Gansh~rt I 1787) v. Vanderbeck/FIIttle Strrtami/Hannan v bye(277-2163). .
INTERHALL RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS R•edi!Adams v bye Dnano/Caldero (3434) v. Danko/Mooney (t649) Reyes/Bogaard (1484) v. Schne1der/M111a (8728) All students who have entered the doubles racquet­Schm1tz/Oison (8933) v Tamberg/MacDonald 
MEN'S GRAD-FAC RACQUETBALL DOUBLES 
ball tournaments nave rne responsibility ot contacting (239-7735) 
Bednar/Hennessey (239-7735) Regal·
their opponents. arrangmg game t1mes. and -Impor­Hogan/Raster ( t780) v Schm1tz/Sm1th (1104) 
buto/Kosanov•ch (5798) 

tant -report1ng scores promptly Failure to report a Kvochak/DeLans (t593) v Sobczak/Schleck 
Sopke/Ross (239-7735) v N1elsen/Grothaus
score by the spec1f1ed date Will result m the ehmlna­(1593) 
(239-7735) Zottola/Wooden (6503) v Gib­
lton of both teams Involved from the tournament The Hatf•eld/0 Bnen ( 1 054) v. Murphy/Brennan 
son/Wittlklnd (233-9703). 

deadline f~r f~rst round play 1n Mens Undergraduate (6756). 
Opfei/H1Ibnch v. bye

Doubles IS Fnday. Feb 11 For Women·s Moser/Krebs (1039) v Fayre/Delahanty (360t). 
Grad!Undergrad Doubles. the dead/me IS Tuesday. Ketterer/Schanck (78t6) v Taylor/Dahl (8944)'. 
Feb 8 The deadline for Mens Grad Doubles IS Tues­P1nhe~ro/K1ng (6749) v. DeCandia/Kreig t (8622) 
day. Feb. 8 Mezzapesa/Jahoda (1789) v. Cnlly/Pans ( 1229). WOMEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES Cu1lders/Duto•t (232-2533) v. Heglm/O'Donnell (8624). Healy/Sm•th v bye MuCCio/Hennessey (1152) v Momssey/Hearn 
DeCrane/Jehle v. bye

Men's Undergrad Doubles 
(1804) . 
Mara/GUinessey (3755) v bye Murray/E1senbe1s (1178) v Power/R1gall (1722). 
Derengosk•!Barker (277-7325) v Hanson/Langan Mulllgan/F•tzgerald (8894) v. McDermott/Crouch (7883)
Chou/Abowd (3328) v Kllnk/lrasqUine (8633) 
Vantlandern/McNulty (8685) v. Snyder/Staten
(2153) Roberts/DeLeone (282-1029) v Paniii/Freeholer 
(255-7770) (3367). Loomey/Fann~ng (8976) v Gnll1th/Gee ( 1038) Sakow•tz/Jeffers (1277) v. bye Cnstford/Butler (277·0885) v Walsh/Shockner White/Keyes (3310) v. Gro1ean/Welsh (1222) 0 Toole/Sull1van v. bye (8773) Shank/P1neda v bye Srlllth/Groody v bye 
Powers/S1mpson .(277-1773) v Cade/Reed (7942) 
The Observer Will accept class1fleds Mon­
day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. c1ass1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 1n person or through the mall 






Classifieds 
Need nde to Cleveland area Feb. 4-6 W•ll  Need two non-student tickets to the South  Job Bank Job open~ng at D1scount Ll·  Ta th'? pretty young lady 1n the second  
NOTICES  FOR RENT  share usual Call John 277-1836  Carolma game Feb Nancy at 7966  5  W1ll pay$$$ Call  quors 1n South Bend. Part-ttme Cle•k needed. for 1nlo call J1m Dettling at 287­ row at Thursday Who was  rute s Keenan  Revue  
I need 2 South Carolina tlx form yparents  52tt  ·WBattng a be1ge dress  
Call M1ke 1 850  need S.C t1x call Dan 16t2  ·taik1ng to a little black g1rl s•tllng next to  
0 K NO MORE CUTE STUFF IF YOU NEED A HAIRCUT AND DON'T WANT TO PAY MORE THAN $4(GUYS) OR $6(GIRLSi THEN CALL TODAY FOR YOUR VERY OWN APPOINTMENT MICHOLE 233-8456  5-bdrm completely lurmshed, close to campus, comfortable house tor group of 5 or 6 for 1983·84 Phone 288-3942 after 6 Student hous1ng -6-bdrm hOuse. fully  FOR SALE  I  NEED 6 t1x lor Feb 5 So. Carol.-na game! Call matt. 1208  SENIORS FOR 1983-84 VOLUNTEER WOFIK WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES IN SEIIERAL US CITIES, APPLICATIO~IS DUE FEBRUARY 8TH. CALL MAFIY ANN ROEMER, 7949.  her -and couldn't see around the mus1c direc­tor at the end of the show. Ht! Grve me a nng-1 d l1ke ro meer you MR  
RESUMES PROFESSIONALLY TYPESET Even1ngs. 233-6581  carpeted. 2 baths. 2 k1tchens w/loft. 232­4057 or 272· 7767 NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREAS 2773604  FOR SALE PIONEER MANUAL TURN­TABLE PL512, PERFECT COND CARTRIDGE NOT INCLUDED. ORIGINAL PACKING INLCUDED CALL JIM 1602  I.___P_E_R_S_O_N_A_L_S-J PRE-LAW SOCIETY n•ght at Sr Bar · Feb 1, 9:30 111 m1dn1ght  A YEAR OF SERVICE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES ONE YEAR POSTGRAD WORK. MANY REWARDS HELPING THOSE WtfO NEED YOU. DEADUNE FEBRUARY a CALL MARY ANN ROEMER, CENTER  Lon No Arms Haelner Hope your 20th B-day IS tubularly awesome!!"' T1me to break out some 12 yr old bourbon'!!l! Love. Kate. Shel. ana B1ll  
[LOST/FOUND \ FOUND: One man·s leather, maroon sk1 glove (new), 1n front of Kn1ghfs of Columbus HaiL Cla1m at Lost & Found 1n  Furn. 2 Bdr apt Clean & close to ND or I USB Ava1lable 1mmed. Call233-763f 3-bdrm house. very close to campus call 239-6244 or 283-8657 ROOM FOR RFNT-2 BLOCKS SOUTH  FOR SALE FRIGIDAIRE COMPACT REFRIGERATOR 4.3 cub1c ft call x1535 $80.00 REFRIGERATOR: Dorm Slle. $50 or best offer. 19 1nch B&W TV $20 Call 283­1066  NEW YORK! CLEVELAND' BOSTON! CHICAGO! PHILADELPHIA' Tune to 88.9 FM Monday thru Fnday at 8PM for concerts by the nat1on·s greatest or­chestras Th1s IS the perfect study a1d lrom WSND-FM ...m stereo! Un1lateral Nuclear Freeze?  FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, 7949. Yamaha 6-stnng acoustiC gUttar for sale ex cond. call Greg at 3003 WANTED. RIDE TO PURDUE WEEKEND OF THE 4TH. CALL x1256  TO ZIEB and LUTHER Lets get drunk and -----' ft. mtscarrrage 1n every btle Does mean were 1n alight? Happy B·day anyway, Hope th1s cleans the smk 1 Were 1n love. The Awesome 3-some  
Adm Bwld LOST. Blue-and-while Sen1or Class Key Class ol '82. 1nit1als TSM on back. Sen­timental ;alue only. Call Tom x1396  OF N D GOLF 'cOURSE $20 .233­6'130.233-t309 TWO ROOMS WITH llATHALL UTIUES PAID MALE PREFFERED PRIVATE EN­TERANCE 2880955  FOR SALE t round tnp to anywhere that Ptedmont Atrl!nes fltes.S B , NYC .Denver.Boston.Dallas.Fionda and many more spots Call Mark at 1725. AMPLIFIER FOR ELECTRIC GUITAR  USA 0 USSR UNLIMITED Push lor Bilateral Agreements Vote NO on Feb 8 FLOC President Baldemar Velasquftl \NIII speak to the student body concerc1ng th(l  Where IS that ESPN s1gn Rm 328 Aluf"ln' Hall? Room 328 Afumnt. Hav1ng fun looktng for the ESPN s.gn The Ayatollah IS gett1n9 a ltttle t1red Maybe a b1c ltghler tS 1n order Check vou.r -:n!bfl~ for ashes Hal  3JOB BANK I JOB OPENING AT ACRA TIRE PRINT SHOP PART-TIME CLERICAL WORK AND BASiC l.WOUT GRAPHICS FOR INrO CALL STEVE SULENTIC AT 23°­3114.  
LOST ND CLASS RING WED JAN 12 HAYES HEALY MENS ROOM SECOND FLOOR YELLOW GOLD. BLUE STONE PLEASE CALL BRIAN AT 277-4790 LOST GOLD SEIKO WATCH LEFT IN I OCKER AT THE ROCK  OR PIANO 120WATTS RMS. 2121NCn SPEAKERS. EXCEL COND. CALL DAN I 1€49 WANTED '--------' -., NeedndetoCic,·elandareaFeb 4-6Will I TICKETS J share usual Call John 277-1836 '-----------­ upc;:omtng referendum to cont•nue a boycon of Campbell's Soup prO<.i~r•:; on Monday. Jan 3t. at 615 1n 1~• L•Orary Audrtonum Come see tne man wl1om Campbell's 11as relused to debate JOB BANK C::vnage :--10use, 31 N. Part-ttme. tnvenlory-stock room For mfo, call Dave Garlln, 272-2526 M1lady Shop. Un•ver­ A YEAR OF SERVICE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES OI~E YEAR POSTGRAD WORK. MAI~Y REWARDS HELPING THOSE WliO NEED YOU. DEADLINE FEBRUARY 8. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER, CENTIER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, 7949.  Oucte oft11e wee' (poSSibly the month)· The 1atlc. here IS ttlfee to one and I STILL can t net a date He•y Girls .. B1g Joe •~.><,~. ,,, • . ..,., a Chnst Head af\l! vou kn!.J: ~mat ii1at means If thore s anythlr.g worse than a ROTC  
LOST  A  GOLD  CROSS  WITH  A  I need 3 S.Carolfna G. A. s (poss•bly lo­ CHEAP SEX and tickets wanted  I need  srty  Park  Mall.  ParH1me sales,  ladtes.  BBall star from New Mex1co. 1ts a ROTC  
DIAMOND  CHIP  (1/27/83)  gether)for Feb 5 game Money no obtect  several G A s for the Feb 5 So. Carol1na  sportswear. For tnfo. call Mrs. Pat Toney.  Kev1n. you'rea God There. now you have  BBall  star  from  New  Mex1co  W1th  a  
SENTIMENT-AL VALUE. Darlene 6980.  Call 1360 an~ ""k lor f f3nk  'l·b611 game. Call Mark at x1201  277·3200  a personal! N/A  mangled ankle  

The Observer Tuesday, February 1, 1983 page9 
Caution and criticism 
A tale of two ''super'' coaches 
LOS AN(;EI.ES ( AP) -One glance 
at the record hook told Washington 
coach _lot· Gibbs that 'uccess can he 
t1eeting and misleading. 
The year after the Pittsburgh 
Steelers won Super Howl XI\'. they 
failed to even make the playoffs. The 
same thing happened to the Oakland 
Raider~ tollowing Super Bowl X\' 
and to the San Francisco -!9ers last 
year. 
"I've told my players, and I will tell them again, that some people can deal with adversity better than they can with success." Gibbs said yesterday, the day after his Redskins won Super Bowl XVII with a 27-17 victory over the Miami Dolphins. 
"I think what happens when you win is that you automatically develop problems dealing with players, getting them signed. Sud­denly everyone is unhappy. They want more. That's human nature. You want more, 'cause you've done more." 
He said if the Redskins begin 
believing they are better than they 
really are "that would kill us quicker 
than anything because we're a total 
team. If we come back with that at­
titude, we'll get beaten, beaten bad­
ly." 
Similarly, Gibbs said he has to 
avoid what could be called the Bill 
Walsh Syndrome. The coach of the 
49ers was tabbed a genius last year. 
This year his season went down the 
drain. 
But Gibbs, in only his second 
season as Washington's head coach, 
admits he didn't expect this degree 
ofsuccess to come this quickly. 
"My gut feeling last training camp 
-and I said honestly at that time, 
because our schedule was rated the 
toughest in the NFL -was that, 
going off what we did last year, I 
would have thought 8-8 again would 
have been a realistic shot for us," he 
said. 
Now that the Redskins have won 
the final game of the 1982 season, 
it's time for them ro start thinking 
about the first one of 1983. 
"As a coach, as soon as you win 
your last game, you start worrying 
about the next one," he said. "In 
football, you build a monster no mat­
ter which way you're going. If you're 
winning, people expect you to win, 
continued/rom page /0 
6-l I center racking up I H of Ken­tucky's !1rst 20 poinh in the crucial second hal[ 
Tht· Wildcats came within four on a Turpin hth:ket with 12:~0 left to play, and resnve Troy :1-lcKinley pulled Kentucky within ';2-'; I at -1:!6. Two minutes later. a Turpin jumper tied the game. ';+';-!. 
But Ellis made a layup and was fouled by Turpin, and the free throw with 2:06 to go allowed Tennessee to pull ahead';~-';-!. 
Another foul with I:00 left allowed Ellis two more free throws and the Vols owned a seven-point lead. 
Kentucky cut the lead to 61-';7 with 2H seconds left. but Michael Brooks responded with pair of free throws with 20 seconds left to boost the lead back to six points. 
Kentucky followed with two bas­kets, including Turpin's layup with 12 seconds left. 
Brooks scored 18 points tor Ten­
nessee. 
Derrick Hord's t1ve points was the 
most any other Wildcat could mus­
ter. 
Tennessee outscored Kentucky 13-2 in the the first seven minutes of the first half with Ellis contributing nine. But Turpin pounded out 19 points and I 1 rebounds in the first half to bring Kentucky within 32-25 PASADENA. Cali[ (AP) -\liami 
Dolphins coach Don Shula likes to 
use backup quarterback Don Strock 
the same way a baseball manager 
uses a relief pitcher. The question in 
the aftermath of Super Bowl XVII 
was whether Shula stayed too long 
with David Woodley before going to 
the bullpen. 
"I started thinking about making a change late in the third quarter." Shula said after Sunday's 2-r-1 -r loss to the Washington Redskins in the National Football League champion­ship game. "When Strock t1nally got inw the game, he really didn't ha\·e a 
chance because they controlled the ball and utilized the clock." 
Strock, who has come off the bench to rally the Dolphins repeatedly during his nine-year career, shed his warm-up jacket with 
8:49 left in the fourth quarter, but didn't get a chance to enrer the game until 1:48 remained with the Dol­phins behind by 10 points. 
The Dolphins trailed 20-1 7 when the Redskins launched a 12-play, 41­
demanJ you win, from the owner on down. If you re tosmg, people ex­pect you to start winning. This is going to be a tough act for us to fol­low." 
The key to the Redskins' victories in three playoff games and the Super Bowl was fullback John Riggins, who had four consecutive 100-yard games. He capped his phenomenal postseason with 166 yards on 38 carries, both Super Bowl records, against Miami. And his 43-yard burst on a fourth-and-! situation in the fourth quarter gave Washington its winning touchdown. 
On Tuesday, though, Riggins becomes a free agent. He could retire -he made an offhand com­ment to that effect following the game -or he could sign with anoth­er team. 
"My gut feeling is that John's had fun playing, that he enjoys it, that he'll be back," Gibbs said. "Of course, he's a very unusual guy. he could very easily say, 'That's it,' but I don't think he wilL I don't think he's the kind of guy who would jump to another league or another team." 
• • • Hoops 
at halftime. 

Wichlta State 89. Indiana State 81 

TERRE HAl TE. Ind. ( AP) -For­wards Antoine Carr and Xavier \IcDaniel dominated inside play as Wichita State muscled its way past Indiana State 10 an 89-H 1 college basketball victory last night in \lis­souri \'alley Conference play. 
Wichita State held a slim -12--t I at the hal( overcoming a Sycamore lead ·that stretched to seven points on an eight-ti>Ot jumper by junior center :\lark Golden with 7:+1 remaining in the hal[ 
In the second hal( !SU overcame an eight-point margin. grabbing a 69-68 lead on a three-point jumper bv Smith with H:-!0 remaining. A sl~m dunk by Williams pushed the 
Sycamore lead to three points. But Wichita State tied the game at 
6:51 and took the lead for good. 
Carr had 28 points and eight rebounds for Wichita, while McDaniel added 20 points and a game-high 20 rebounds. 
ISU was led by freshman forward John Sherman Williams who had 25 points and 10 rebounds, and james Smith who scored 21 points and grabbed I 1 rebounds 
Wichita State is 15-2 overall, with 
7.J in the league. Indiana State falls to 6-11, and 2-6 in the conference. 

yard drive leading to joe Theis­mann's 6-yard touchdown pass to Charlie Brown ti>r a 27-17 ad­vantage. 
"Washington did to us what we did to other teams -;---keep the ball and put points on the board,'' said veteran guard Bob Kuechenberg. 
That's what Simla calls productive 
ball control, and the Dolphins didn't 
have it against the Redskins. 
Woodley, a third-year quaner­back whose sparkling pertormance in the Dolphins' t1rst three playoff games helped the club into the Super Bowl, struggled after hitting four of six passes for 97 yards and one touchdown in the t1rst half. 
He missed his last attempt before 
halftime and threw incomplete on 
all eight of his passe~ in the second 
halfas Miami managed only two first 
downs. 
"When nothing works, it's com­pletely frustrating," said Woodley, who teamed with jimmy Cefalo on a 76-yard scoring play in the first quar­ter. "When it looked like we would complete a pass, one of their guys would come in and knock it down. 
"They shut us down in the second half better than anyone all year," Woodley added. "It seemed like we were always inches away from the big play." 
Dolphin players would not ques­tion whether Shula waited too long to relieve Woodley, who finished with four completions and 14 at­tempts. Woodley, for one, didn't feel he 
How to be aromantic in an age ofreason. 

©General FOOds Corporation 1983. 

GENERAL~ 

was yanked too soon. "We were only ington dominated the game made it down three points, and when it's 
difficult to assess if Strock would 
that close, one big play can turn it have made a difference. 
around," he said. 
"The fault doesn't lie with the 
Kuechenberg, one of only two quanerback. The offensive line was Dolphins remaining from the Miami not controlling the line of team that appeared in Super Bowls 
scrimmage. I don't have any idea if VI, VII-and VIII, said the way Wash-Don Strock could have done better." 
Tuesday, February 1, 1983 -page 10

The Observer 


North Carolina'sMichaeljordan is one ofthe majorreasons that the Atlantic Coast Conference power Tar Heels are now number one in the country•. The Tar Heels picked up 34 ofthe 56first-place votes. More details are on the back page. ( AP Photo) 
continuedfrom page 12 

The triangular meet t1rst pits the Irish against their hosts, Long Beach State. The second opponent will be either Arizona State or California State-Fullerton. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame moves on to face a field of about 20 teams that will be at Biola College. Some of the other teams that will be compet­ing in the tournament include Cal State-Bakersfield, Cal Poly, Arizona State, San Jose St., and Stanford, a place where Irish coach Bruno has seen coaching duty. 
"This will det1nitely be our tough­est competition of the season," said Bruno. "It should be a real test for all of our young wrestlers hecause of our age and all the top ten teams that will be there." 
~~cason. 
College hoops summary 


Villanova nips G-eorgetown 
By KEN RAPPOPORT 
AssociatedPress 
Pat who? 

"He's positively never played bet­
ter," saiJ Villanova coach Rollie Mas­
simino after watching his own Ed 
Pinckney steal the thunder from the 
more celebrated Pat Ewing of 
Georgetown. 

The result was a tingling 6H-6 7 
hasketball victory lasi night for the 
1 I th-anked Wildcats over the No. 
1"1 Hoyas. 

Villanova's omnipresent forward 
hauled down 20 rebounds and 
winning free throws with eight 
seconds left. The seven-foot Ewing, 
meanwhile, was in t(>ul trouhle most 
of the night and left the Big East 
game with 6:45 remaining after 
collecting only eight points and six 
• • . Fisher 

Barring any sudden injury, the traveling squad will consist of those wrestlers who have held down the number one spots in their weight classes the past tew weeks. 
One wrestkr who will definitely not make the trip West is ISO lb. sophomore Scott Bentivenga. Ben­tivenga suffered a severe neck injury Saturday and will det1nitdy be out of action hJr the remainder of the 
r 
\~>.W(i>.-ac<~'>1'C(i~~~~ . ~ Moving in to replace l:kntivenga ,..._ ~-.. · in the lineup will be Doug Skinner.
StUv€ntS In 

Skinner, the team's only senior, is ~ just returning from arthro~copic 
I B s & surgery. 
rebounds. 
"That was the finest, most thrill­ing, most hard-fought victory that I've coached in my 26 years," said Massimino after watching his Wildcats heat a Georgetown team 
for the first time since 196'i. Georgetown had neaten Villanova the last six times the reams met. 
"We got the hall inside when we had to," Massimino said. "And every­thing just worked down the stretch. (Georgetown) are a tough, tough team. They play territk defense." 
Noted  Georgetown  coach John  
Thompson:  "The  momentum  
shifted,  but  that's  all  part  of the  

game. It was a highly emotional game. The Big East is a well-halanced 
league. All the games are tough." 
Horace Broadnax had given Georgetown a 67-64lead on a layup with 2H seconds remaining. Vil­lanova's John Pinone hit a Held goal with 1 H seconds to go, and after Georgetown lost the ball out of bounds, Pinckney was fouled and converted his game-winning shots. 
Pinone added 1 7 points for Vil­lanova. David Wingate scored 16 points and Michael Jackson had 15 for Georgetown, which had a six­game winning streak snapped. 
In other games involving the na­tion's ranked teams, No. 4 Memphis State beat Virginia Tech 73-64; Ten­nessee tripped No. I 'i Kentucky 65­63; No. 16 lllinois State nipped Bradley '56-'i'i and No. 19 Georgia routed Vanderbilt H6-61. 
In games involving the top ten teams: 
gr~~!~~ il~eerc~<~~~~~ a~~ b~:~~~~ 
t1ve shots as Memphis State, 17-I, avenged its only loss ofthe season by heating Virginia ·rech.The Hokies 
defeated the Tigers 69-'i6.Jan. 10 at Blacksburg. \'a. Memphis State was I 1-0 and ranked No. I at the time. 
Virginia Tech's Keith Colbert, who had held foul-plagued Lee to a career-low six points in the first game, had three foub in the t1rst half of last night's game and played only 1~minutes. 


::================= 
Tennessee 65
9 


Kentucky63 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -Ten­nessee. shaking olf a -t2-poinr scoring spree by Melvin Turpin. parlayed Dale Ellis' 22 points. including two free throws in the tina! seven seconds, into a 65-6:3 up­set of I 'ith-ranked Kentucky in 
Southeastern  Conference  college  
basketball last night.  
Kentucky  came  back  from  a  

seven-point deficit in the final minute, and the 6-foot-11 Turpin. who topped his previous career­high of 28 points, connected on a layup with 12 seconds remaining to trim Tennessee's lead to 63-61. 
After a Kentucky timeout, the Wildcats detlccted a pass by Tennes­~ee's Kevin Woods out of bounds. Then Kentucky's Charles Hurt fouled Ellis on the inbounds pass, and the 6-.., Volunteer senior hit the clutch free throws for a four-point Tennessee auvantage with seven ~econds left. 
Dirk :\1innit1eld managed a t1nal­second bucket for Kentucky, now 13-'i O\'Crall and 'i--1 in the SEC. 
It was the Volunteers, now 13-5 overall and 'i--l in the SEC, against Turpin much of the game. with the 
see HOOPS, page 9 

_.,... 
• USJn€SS, CI€0C€ ~_; €nqm€€Rin(j:
I 



lni€R€St€b m WRitmq 
-aoout b€V€lopmmts
I 



'· r---~1 Sh€naruqans/ ~ 1
I 
~· 
. 
~ 
?' 
~ 
' ~ 
t~ 
~:::~ 
i 
I ~~ i 

HUNGER ~ ~ ACTIVIST? n;~'~""'~ 
RESEARCHER?  f  ~-~  
~,  
You need:  

Wl1o·s Involved Wit/1 Hunger 1982. Guide to 400 organizations 111 the uS. 54 pages 55 oo 
Annual Annotated Biblio­graphy_ 1982. Latest books and films on u.s. and Third world food ..·development issues 24 pages. 52.50. 
send check or money order to: world Hunger Education 
service 1317 G Street. N.W. washington. D.C. 20005_ 

Dancers signed up • • • • • •

MARDI GRAS DANCE·A·THON Participation Chart 
Sponsored dancers ••••••••••• Sponsored dancers have fulfilled ticket sales requirements 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 
B.P. CARROLL 


I I  

Represents number of student participaots. 

Ihe()~IYer==========================~============ 



~~4()l~~=============================T=u=e=s=d=~=T'=F=e=b=ru=a=~='=l=,=l=9=8=3===p=a=g=e=l=l
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
AHEM. 111 UK£ 10 

YQIJ'U-'X£ TI1£R£ HOW l SUBMIT A t.GITER 
f.ASMANO lHRT1Hf;_ W/6RNMWT 

TO A FASC.IST 

TO 1\1E-£DI10R . 
A\'OVICt A HOUS€ A VOCVO, 
HOW'S AU.. "THAT 

YOU PAY GOVERNMENT _7! AH£Altl7 WATt:ROCV AN[I A 
"TAX€5 7 HA.' 
5UB~IP'T10N 10 "MOTI1ER JON£5" 10 €V€R:f RJOR ~RSON ON 


\ 
li:hr 
JOlll.ll.iraron 

Simon Jeb Cashin 


Fate Photius 


NON· VIOlfN(( MEANS ALOT 
To MANY CHKISTII\NS 10DAY. Y()..ffZE QUITE AN INSPt~TION TO 
U( , '-"' 
"@

·~--~'" 


ACROSS 1 Narrow wood strip 5 Row

The Daily Crossword 
9 Takes no food 14 Melville 
work 15 Peel 16 Sidestep 17 Squire's 

urban home 19 Indian 
home 20 Simpletons 21 Court 
procedure 22 Ukase 24 Count 26 Madea 
mistake 

27 Pillage 45 Go beyond 28 Freshwater 48 Badinage 
annelid 49 Kindled 29 "My -Sal" again 30 Blends 50 Fortifica­34 Inhabitant: tion 
suff. 52 Serious 35 Paronomasia 53 Perpendicu· 36 Performed lar to main 37 Stovepipe, bus lines 
for one 56 Showy 38 Esprit de flower corps 57 "Look-... " 
40 One of the 58 Castor, Seven to Pollux Dwarfs 59 Things 
41 Venetian lacking 
magistrate 60 Russian 42 Bacon unit tyrant 44 Cotton 61 Heraldry 
thread device 


DOWN
Monday's Solution 
1 Fate 2 I love: Lat. 3 Oldtime 
newsman 4 Feted 5 Finechina 6 McCartney 
or Williams 7 Weapons storage 8 Gets ready 
to play 9 Put on weight 
10 Onewho 2/1183 verifies 

11 Cuttlefish 
fluid 12 Play host 13 Tablet 18 Did garden 
work 22 Strong 
cloth 23 A Muse 25 Ape 27 Managed 29 Visitor 


Campus 

•-,oo p.m. -Forum, Finance Forum, Chark~ R. Schwab, President and Chief Executive Officq. Charles Schwab & Co.. Inc.. CCE Auditorium •-:30 p.m. -Meeting, Pax Christi General :\leeting, Sponsored hy Pax Christi, Center f(.>r So­cial Concerns Lounge •-:30 p.m. -Forum, "Profile: the Professional Woman," Beverly \X"interschied, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Advisory Council for Women Studenb •-:30 p.m.-Film, "From Hitler to the MX," 2-11 Madaleva, SMC, Sponsored hy The Two-Campus Freeze Coalition •-:30 p.m.-Lecture, "Politics of the Progressive Church in Latin America," Prof. Alexander Wilde, N.D., Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall 
•8:00 
p.m. -Film, "How Much is Enough?," Library Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Science and Dept. ofGovernment 

•8:00 
p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, St. Edward's Chapel 

•9:30 
p.m. -Film, "From Hitler to the MX," LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by The Two­Campus Freeze Coalition 

•6:00 
p.m. -Dinner, Notre Dame Biology Cluh Dinner, Faculty Dining Room. second floor South Dining Hall. Sponsored by~. 0_ Biolo!-"" I :tub 

•7:00 
p.m. -Lecture, "Emergence ol Holog· raphy as a Creative Medium," Rosemary Jackson, Director of the Museum of Holography, NYC, St. Edward's Chapel 

•7:00 
p.m. -Swim Meet, Women vs. Ball State, Rockne Memorial e-:>, 9:15, &11:30 p.m.-Film, "The Shining." Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Scuba Cluh 



T.V. Tonight 

8:00p.m.  16  ~hogun  
22  Walt Di,ncy  
28  llappv Days  
34  :-;ova  
8:30p.m.  28  Laverne and Shirlc,­ 
9:00p.m.  22  CB~ Special Tuesday 'iight \tovie  
28  Three's Companv  
3'f  American Plavhou'e  
9:30p.m.  28  9To <;  
!O:OOp.m.  16  St. Ebewhere  
28  liar! to Han  
llp.m.  16  'iewsCentcr 16  
22  22 Eyew11ness 'iew'  
28  1\;cwswatch 2H  

f 
The Far Side 

31 City near an abandoned mina 
32 Erne 33 Ranch 
animal 35 Grouts 36 Beetle 39 Got there 40 Leaves 
there 41 Eating area 43 Teenager's wise one 44 Track circuits 45 Pipe or 
mouth 46 Poetry 47 Buoy up 48 Meaner 51 Capital 
of ltalia 54 Cleverness 55 22'12 • on the 

"You know? ... I think I'd like a salad." 

compass 
•

~Original • r-------------------!:l• 0Rt€ntal aRt Sale 
Tuesday and Wednesday 
'.


February 1, 2 
~:.... 
•··' :..j


J·'\ 

•five fun-filled days and Six wild nights!
LaFortune Lobby 


;i/·.,..:·"' 

• Luxury condominiums with fireplaces and jacuzzis
10amto5pm 

Informational Meeting: Tuesday Feb.1 
····both days--~~ 

7 pm ., LaFortune Little Theatre 
• .,
------~------------~·
COURTESAN 

lllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllll...llllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllltl••~HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIt..llll..!'
r 
• T T E I 

-
J 
..----~-­
Tuesday, February 1, 1983 -page 12




~orts 

Wrestlers take second with Fisher's help 
ByJEFF BLUMB in the regular portion of the match, Sports Writer he repeated himsel t fin the overtime period. He fell behind early in the Led by junior Mark Fisher, the period and again waited until the Notre Dame wrestling team took final second to make his move, thb second place at Saturday's National time turning a reversal to capture 
Catholic Tournament at Marquette the crown. llniversity. John Carroll narrowly In winning his weight class, Fisher edged the Irish to top the ten-team raised his season totals to .)'l-6, in tiel d. the process eclipsing the Notre 
-The wrestling of Fisher high­Dame record for most wins in a lighted Notre Dame's second con· season, 55. set by Phil Haty last year. secutive successful tournament. He But Fisher was not the only Irish was the only Irish wrestler to win his wrestler to turn in a strong perfor­weight class, as he won three excit­mance Saturday. In fact, Notre Dame ing battles. His victory in the finals had five wrestlers in the finals of 
may have been the most exciting their respective weight classes. match of the entire tournament. Co-captain Don Heintzelman was 
After victories in his tlrst two one of the four Irish grapplers to lose matches, the Buchanan, Mich. native hi:s tina! match but still take second stepped onto the mat for the 126-place. He did this despite the fact 
pound t1nals. that he is still bothered by a knee Fisher lived dangerously in the all­that underwent arthroscopic sur­success of late. A second-place finish in the Na­important match, waiting until the gery earlier this season. 
Notre Dame wrestlerScott Bentivenga attempts 
tional Catholic Tournament was marred onl)! by absolute last second before tying his "He was really bothered a lot by
to turn his opponentfrom Depauw on his back in 
a serious injury to Bentivenga. jeff Blumb tells opponent with a head throw and it," remarked Irish coach Bro. 
a match earlier this season. Bentivenga and his 
more at right. (Photo by Ed Can"Oil) near fall. Joseph Bruno, C.S.C.. "Still, he 
teammates hcwe enjoyed a lot of tournament 
As ifhe did not cut it close enough looked pretty good." Heintzelman now stands at 23-12 with his two wins and one loss in the 
tournament. Other Notre Dame wrestlers making it to the tlnals before losing 
UNL V is second 

were Baty, who is now 25-4-1, John Krug, who is now 24-13-1, and By The Associated Press when the Rebels went to the NCAA AP Top Twenty heavyweight Mike Golic, who is 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams .n The one each. 

North Carolina rolls to the top 
t1nals. now 14-2.
Associated Press poll, w1th f1rst~place votes rn paren·
The North Carolina Tar Heels are Virginia, 17-2 after beating Louis­
Another happy coach was George theses. thrs season s records and total pmnts. Pomts Freshman 118-pounder Eric ranked No. 1 in the weekly As­based on 20· 1 9· 1 8· 1 7 etc Notre Dame oponents are ville Saturday, moved up from
Raveling, whose Washington State C:rown was 3-1 for the day at Mar­
italicized

sociated Press poll for the first time team broke into the Top 20 as No. 18 seventh to third. Memphis State, 16­
quette, good for third place. Crown this season and riding a 14-game 1, advanced a notch to fourth and St.
this week. currently stands a 23-9-1 for the winning streak. John's moved from eighth to t1fth.
The Cougars squeaked past year.
1 North Carolina (34) 17·3 1,073North Carolina received 34 t1rst· California and Stanford last weekend 2 UNLV (13) 18·0 1.017 Indiana, No. 2 last week, dropped One sidelight for the Irish Satur­3 V1rg1n1a (3) 17·2 992
place votes and I,073 points from a by a total of six points to run their to sixth after losing to Iowa, day was the naming of Bruno as
4 MemphiS State (1) 16·1 920
panel of56 sports writers and broad­
record to 1 S-2, 7-0 in the Pac-1 0. 5 St. John·s (2) 18·1 884 followed by liCLA. Houston routed "National Catholic Coach of the casters, becoming the tlfth team to Raveling was not surprised at his 6. Indiana 15-2 809 Rice 76-40 and moved up a notch to Year." This award was given on the top the poll this year, succeeding 7 UCLA(2) 14-2 BOO
team's performance: "I said before 
8 Houston (1) 16·2 697 basis ofa vote ofcoaches.
Virginia, Indiana, Memphis State, 9 Arkansas 17·1 629 eighth, while Arkansas climbed from
the season started that people were 
"One would expect the first place
and UCLA. tO. MiSSOUri 16·3 554 12th to ninth. Missouri, the only
downplaying us when they 
coa<·h to have gotten it," ~aid Bruno,
The only unbeaten Division I other team among the top 10 with
shouldn't be." 

"so we were somewhat surprised by
team, Nevada-Las Vegas, moved up three losses, defeated Kansas and
liCLA, tlrst for two straight weeks, 
11 Villanova 13·3 492 it. I think it is rather unusual. I don't 
to second place in the latest Nebraska last week to move up to
lost Friday night to Alabama and 12. LOUISVIlle 16-3 453 
know what I did that no one else
rankings, receiving I3 t1rst-place 13. Iowa 13-4 391 lOth.
dropped to seventh. It still managed 
14 Georgetown 15-4 351 did." 
votes and 1,0 I 7 points. That made 
two t1rst-place votes. 15 Kentucky 13-4 333 The Notre Dame wrestlers now 
Coach jerry Tarkanian happy. 16. lllmo1s State 15-1 316 The Second Ten consisted of Vil­
The remainder of the t1rst-place 
17. Mmnesota 13·3 290 head into their toughest competi­
Louisville,
It marked the loftiest spot in the votes were split among Virginia with 18. Wash.ngton State 15·2 210 lanova, Iowa, George­tion of the season as they travel to
history of the school, surpassing the 19. Georg1a 14-3 117 town, Kentucky, Illinois State,
three, St. John's with two, and 
California to wrestle in a triangular
20. Syracuse 13-4 74
No. 3 ranking achieved in 1976 
Memphis State and Houston with 
meet Friday. They will then par·
Minnesota, Washington State, Geor­
ticipate in the rigorous Biola Invita­
gia, and Syracuse. Wake Forest and 
tional on Saturday.

Oklahoma State fell out of the poll.
Afterpaying dues 
see FISHER, page 10 

..... 



Theismann makes dad proud 
PASADE:'I!A, Calif.-When it was over, joe Theismann raced for the sidelines -the Miami sidelines, that is. Skip DesjardinThere he shook hands with Dolphin head coach Don Shula. Sports Editor Emeritus 
Then he ran, hopped, skipped, and danced across the .;....________________.-. floor ofthe Rose Bowl, the game ball held aloft. "I did a lot of crazy things out there today," Theis-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mann said after the Washington Redskins' 27-17 victory . in Super Bowl XVI1 Sunday. "Years from now, I'll probably look at the tllms ofthis game and think, 'look at wanted to play right away. But it's past, and things that idiot jumping and rolling around and acting like a turned out okay, I guess." fool.' But not today. Call me anything you want ~ I "joey climbed the ladder the hard way in this league, don't care." and he never gave up," said his father, Joe Sr. "He per­Theismann was IS of23 for 143 yards against Miami's severed and persevered~ and he succeeded." heralded defense. But the most important play he made On this day in particular. all day may have been a defensive one. As the third quar­"We just wren't able to contain him," said Miami's ter was nearing an end, a Theismann pass was batted up defensive genius, Bill Arnsparger. "His scrambling puts in the air by Kim Bokamper, and the Dolphin defensive an extra burden on your defense. We needed better end would have intercepted it in the endzone if Theis­solutions to be the best. We didn't have them." mann had not batted it away. No, on this day, just one team could be the best. And "I saw it up in the air and I could see him going for it," just one man could lead them. Theismann said ofthe play might have put the game out "He's the number one leader on this team," wide of the Redskins' reach. "I just sort of dove and tried to receiver Alvin Garrett said ofTheismann. "joe would do get in the middle ofit. I'm a better defensive back than a anything for any guy in this locker room. Most of us get quarterback." our example of what it means to be part ofa team from Tell that to Shula, who drafted Theismann in the Joe." fourth round in 1971. For Theismann's father, as for the quarterback him­
"He was outstanding," Shula said. "He was going self, it was an emotional day. against a tough defense, yet he came up with the big "I have to say that this is one of the proudest days of plays and kept drives alive." my life," the elder Theismann said. "I'm just as proud Washington Redskin quarterbackjoe Theismann lets a passfly 
But for the presence of Bob Griese in Miami in the today as I was when he graduated from Notre Dame. in Sunday's Super Bowl victory overMiami. Theismann, afterstar­early 1970s, Shula would have had Theismann. Instead, "How many fathers ever get here?" he asked no one in ring at Notre Dame, did not take the usual path to stardom, skip­the iri~h star signed with Toronto of the Canadian Foot­particular. "How many fathers ever get to see their son ping from college into the Canadian Football League. Skip ball League. win the Super Bowl?" Desjardin talks about Theismann in his latest column at left. (AP 
"I acted too hastily," Theismann said Sunday. "I This year? Just one. Photo) 
I 
' 





