NFL Standings -page9 

VOL XVIII, NO. 11 tht: indt:pt:nlknt ~tudt:nt nt:w~papt:r ~~:rving notre dame and ~aim mary·~ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1983 

Sophomore officers fulfill pledge:Capt'n Crunch arrives in October 
By A\IY STEPHAN winning dor n. 1ivi1ual treasure cnest will contain a CopvE1ttor With a few alterations, the niniature television, a cassette proposa: was approved by Father player, a calculator, an1 other prizes, 
He's beco ne a ·sort of ca npus John Van Wolvlear, vice president while the dor n chest will contain a hero. Colu nns are written to praise for student affairs. vi1eocassette recorder. hi n. Students stage sit-down strikes Originally, the Capt'n Crunch One T-shirt winner will be in his honor. And, on Oct. 17, Capt'n ::ating contest, where the trips to selected at the Capt'n Crunch eating Crunch is coning to '1/otre Dane. Florida will be awarded, was slate1 
contest to receive a free trip for two Fron Oct. 17-21, Capt'n Crunch for Satur1ay. Quaker also propose1 
to any 'llotre Da ne away basketball will be under the Golden Done, dis­that Capt'n Crunch say goo1-bye to 
ga ne. The winner nust be present tributing T-shirts, free trips to Ft. '1/otre Dane by para1ing insi1e of 
an1 wearing his or her T-shirt at the Lauderdale over spring break, an:l, the sta1iu n before the ga ne in a 
Capt'n Crunch eating contest. ofcourse, Capt'n Crunch cereal. boat-shape:! float. 
A trip for two to the '1/otre Da ne­
The Quaker Oats Co npany is "We ha1 to 1raw a line between 

Penn State ga ne will be awar1ed to
spending a reporte•j $60,000 to that kind ofco n nercialis n at a foot­

the winner of a Capt'n Crunch 
sponsor Capt'n Crunch Week at ball ga ne," said \tcDonnell. Van costu ne contest. 

'llotre Dane. The week "could be Wolvlear specified that no Capt'n one of the nost exciting events on Crunch week events could take Capt'n Crunch will appear on 
ca npus at least once each 1ay and
ca npus this year," said Sopho nore place on Saturday or in the stadiu n. give away T-shirts an1 cereal, an:l,
Class President Lee Broussar1. Van Wolvlear requeste1 that the accor1ing to the proposal, will be
The chain of events lea1ing to Capt'n Crunch eating contest be visit an1
Capt'n Crunch week began when noved to Friday, an:l, according to available to hospitals charities an1 attend the pep rally on
this year's sopho nore class officers \tcDonnell, asked "it be around din­Fridav.

ran on a platfor n which include1 a ner to prove Capt'n Crunch is good Capt'n Crunch party. "We wanted any tine. And if this beco nes a "It's not your typical class­so nething different that would at­slogan, I want ny cut." sponsore1 event," sai1 \tcDonnell. tract people," said Broussard. According to \tcDonnell, there 
"It's a very expensive PR effort by Upon winning the election, the was a concern about stu1ents gor­Quaker Oats....This is a college sopho nore class officers "realized ging the nselves on Capt'n Crunch at narket and are
cereals geared 

APPbolo
this woul1 cost so ne noney," sai1 a ti ne when there are people starv­towar1s little ki 1s." Broussar1. The officers approache1 ing. Quaker responded by pro nising 
Accor1ing to \tcDonnell, this is
Bill Hickey, director of '1/otre Dane to 1onate nooo offood to a charity 

~he first corporate-sponsore1
food services, who gave the n the na ned by the sopho nore class. In 

ca npus event that the University has 
na ne of so neone to contact at addition to this SlOOO, an entry fee 

approved. \tcDonnell sai1 that part
Quaker Oats. of $1 per participant will also be 

of the reason the event was ap­
The sopho nore officers wrote to donated to charity. 

prove1 was because the i1ea was in­
Quaker, asking for a few cases offree Although the details ofthe contest 

itiated by the sopho nore class,
cereal for their pro nised Capt'n have not been finalized, the contest 

a1ding that in order for any
Crunch party. Quaker Oats turne1 will probably be held aroun14:30 or 

corporate-sponsore1 event to be ap­
the letter over to their a1vertising 5 p. n. Friday on South Qua1, said 

prove1, it woul1 have to be 
agency, "which very excite:! Broussar1. Tea ns co nposed offour Korean was
was Associate 1 Press crew consi1eringabout it," sai1Ji n \tcDonnell, 1irec· nen and two wo nen will co npete, 
sponsore1 by an insi1e group. 
naking a force1lan1ing.
Co n nercials have not been dis­
tor ofstudent activities. an1 each ne nber of the winning The State Depart nent issue·J a

cusse1, sai1 \tcDonnell. The Quaker
Two advertising consultants for tea n will receive a trip for two to Ft. 

WASHI'lGTO'il -The Unite:! written state nent without elabora­
Oats consultants have, however,
Quaker net with \tcDonnell and Lau1erdale. 

Stal.es yestcciay revise:! its version tion that conten1ed its reinterpreta·
been in contact with "Goo1 \torn­
Hickey on ca npus last June. The There is a possibility ofa separate ofa Soviet pilot's ra1io trans nissions tion of the Soviets' air-to-groun1

ing, A nerica" and have written to
consultant.~ then sub nitted a co npetition for sopho nores only, 

to in1icate he fire:! his cannon -co n nunications "reinforces our
"Charles Kuralt on the Road" and
proposal for a Capt'n Crunch week since the event is being sponsored possibly the warning shots the belief that the totality of the events

Te1 Koppel's "'1/ightline", accor1ing
to take place the week before the by the sopho nore class, sai1 Brous­Soviets insist were fire:! -nearly six re nains exactly as state:! by the U.S.

.o Broussar1.
USCGane. sar1. This would nean a total of 24 

ninutes before he use:! a nissile to an:! Japan." Japan nonitore1 the "When J rea1 the proposal, I just trips to Flori 1a. The sopho nore class officers are 
:!own an airliner with 269 people ra1io trans nissions when the planecoul1n't get over it," said Hickey. In A treasure hunt is also plannei being requested to send a letters, 
aboard. was shot 1own Sept. I. ad1ition to 12 trips to Florida, prizes This will involve 500 certificates for drafted by the Quaker Oats consul­A ninute an1 a half later the "The evi1ence indicates that the include tickets an1 transportation to a specially 1esigne1 'lotre Dane­tants, to "Real People" an1 "That's attacking Soviet pilot n<;>tice d the (Korean Air lines) pilot was totally
the '1/otre Dane-Penn State ga ne, Capt'n Crunch T-shirt hiHen incredible", sai1 Broussar1. The Korean Air Lines Boeing 747 jetliner unaware of the . fact he was off tickets an1 transportation to any around ca npus. Also hidden will be consultants are also working for 
was 1ecreasing spee1, but there is course, that he was intercepte1 by '1/otre Da ne away basketball ga ne, two treasure chests, one for an in­coverage in the Chicago Tribune no in1ication that was neant as a sig­and a video-cassette recorder for a divi1ual and one for a ·jor n. The in-see SOVIETS, page 5
Sunday paper. nal to Soviet interceptors or that the 
., .ltilii····••••••• "<li. 9 

J c·atholic church repressed in Chile 
E tttor's note: This is the secon t ofa Scully saw p. great 1eal uf repression \tany foreign priests ha1 their visas three part sen'es exa nining Chile of the church by the govern nent suspen:leJ an1 were force:! to an-t the effects ofthe coup ten years an1 rightists. One exa nple of this return to the ninister ofthe interior. ago in which Augosto Pinochet rose was the govern nent's intervention One obvious tactic which Scully to power. into the operations of St. George's sai1 the govern nent use1 as part of ByVIC SCIULLI College, a Holy Cross school that their ca npaign to get ri 1 of the Assistant Yews E1itor teaches nales fro n kin1ergarten to church in the country w:•.s the the first year ofcollege. rezoning of neighborhooJs. The \tuch has happened in Chile since The govern nent took over opera­govern nent wou\1 learn where that day I 0 years ago when Augosto tions of the school in 1976. Lay lea:lers intenJed to buil1 another Pinochet took power through a teachers were fire:! an1 the school's church, plan so nething else for that 
nilitary coup. Violence an1 reprcs· theology 1epart nent was dissolve:!. area and then tell the n that there sion have beco ne a way of life for \tany priests were na ne1 con­was no longer any Ian J available. the najority of Cbileans. Few have nunists by the govern nent. Prior to The Holy Cross oder has haJ been spared, including the nany the coup, one-third of the school's close ties with Chile since 1943 Catholic priests in the country. students were on so ne for n of when Cardinal Caro aske 1 the 
Last nonth, Lia n Holahan, a financial aid; afterward, al nost all of priests to take over St. George's Col­young Irish priest, was brutally the school's stu1ents ca ne fro n rich lege. At the tine, there were no ex­beaten by Chilean riot police after fa nilies. cellent Catholic schools in the the funeral of a protest victi n. The school's provincial officer at country an1 Caro wante1 Catholic Though nost priests have not been the ti ne refuse1 to accept the e:lucation to be as good in Chile as victi ns ofphysical violence in Chile, legiti nacy of govern nent power Protestant education. The school 

the nilitary junta of Pinochet has over a church school anJ odereJ has grown stea Jily since then an J 
na1e it Jifficult for the n to carry the priests to leave rather than ac· has gra'iuateJ nany of Chile's out their 1uties as well as before the cept govern nent intervention. lea'iers. coup. Scully saiJ that the govern nent 'ilotre Oa ne, which was foun Je J 
l 
Fresh nen taking Che nistrv learnet early what to expect fro n Father Tin Scully recently useJ other tactics to interfere with 1y the Holy Cross oder. ~.as 'he year's first "E nil," at ninisteret Fri-iay in the Engineering returneJ to 'ilotre D:t ne after al nost the Holy Cross. incluJing the i n­
see CHILE, page 3

.iu Jitorlu n. _ . four v.ears in Chile. ln his years there, prison nent anJ heatin.gs of priests. 
The Observer Monday, September 12, 1983-page 2 
In Brief • ,
<a 
A 1983 graduatefrom Notre Dame, Thomas Parrill, has received a graduate fellowship from the Office of Naval Research. Parrill, one of 41 recent graduates to receive the honor, will attend Northwestern University's graduate program in material science and engineering. A native of Grand Prairie, Tex., Parrill received a bac­helor's degree in metallurgical engineering and materials science. He was elected to two engineering honor societies, and received Notre Dame's Rev. Thomas A. Steiner Prize, which recognizes leadership qualities in engineering students. -The Obseroer 
Peter Lombardo and Ann A. Porowski have been named to posts in Notre Dame's continuting education department. Lomhardo becomes assistant director, and Porowski will be assistant professional specialist and coordinator. Lombardo came to Notre Dame in 1971 as an instructor in history after teaching several years in Connecticut, his home state. He was awarded a William Randolph Hearst fellowship while completing study for a doctoral degree. He was assistant archivist for the University from 1976 to 1980. He succeeds james II. Powell who was recently named director of graduate admissions. Porowski, of South Bend, has been director of alumni and parent services at Drury Collt"ge in Springfield, Mo. 
The Obseroer 
Dean BernardDobranskifrom the University o, Detroit School of Law has joined the editorial hoard oftheAmerican 
journal ofjurisprudence, an annual puhlication of the Natural Law Institute spon~ored hy Notre Dam~··, Law School. A former memhcr of the law hu:ulty here. Dohranski recl·tvcd his professional degree from the University of Virginia ami h a spt·ciaiiM in philosophy and lahor-law practil'e. The Natural I.aw Institute was founded at Notre Dame in 19-f"" to explore the principles of the natural law and th(' their application to tmia,··s prohlcm,. -The Ohserz•er 
The COntroversial additiOn on BriJger 
\1c(;uire's Filling Station will not be he torn down until tne owne~; appeal b heard hy the city Bo~rd of Zonmg Appeab. The owner:•. State Rep. B. Patrick Bauer and hi' sister Teresa Bauer, net a petition deadline so the natter can he heard at the :O.ept. 22 session of the hoard. The petition asks the hoanl for relief fro·n an Aug. 11 stop work order and an Aug. 1'5 de·nolition order. The Bauer~ plan to file a state nent concerning the hbtory of the addition. -The Ohserzjpr 
Bids have been put outon a s.~ nillion expanswn of the water-chilling capacit\ of the power plant at ~otre OJ ne. Construction could start a~ t·.•rly a' thts fall. Co npletion h set for Au~ust 198-i. -The Ohse,.w. 
A $100,000 gift to "'lotn· Ua nc will pav for a special \1e noriall.ihrary collection of hnob on business ethics. The colie, · tion will he in the honor of \1ichael P. anJ Lyle C. Willia ns. Rohert Willian... presi lent of Ca'.lillac Pro Jucb inc., a nanutacturer of auto notive parb in Sterling Heights, \1ich., na·je the ~ift. The ~ift 
oakes the fifth en-JoweJ collecuon in the library. -TheOhservet· 
A. relationship wth Christis the nost i nportant equip nent for a Catholic priest today, accorJing to ~otre Dane presi'Jent Father Theodore Hesburgh. In re narks prepared for the co n nence nent execises at 1n naculate Conception Se nlnary in Darlington, ~ew jersey, yesterday, Hesburgh reflecte1 on his forty years as a Cathollc priest, 1escrlbing the pries~ as a nan in the niddle who has to be: close to both Go1 an1 hu nans. With Chrl~t. Father Hesburgh sai:J, the priest has all he needs, all the courage, all the love, all the co npassion, all the consecration, all the faith and hope, all the pcrserverence. "\\ot that any of us have anything eternally valuable In an1 ofourselves to nake us dare to share Christ's priest­hood, hut with HI n as our nearest co npanlon an1 friend, all will go well, -Jespite our weaknesses, ina1equacles, faults and sins. -Tbe Ob­seroer 
VVeather . 
Partly cloudyand rnlld \tonday, with a 6o per­cent chance for showers an1 thunJerstor ns. High in nid and upper 70s. Partly cloudy \1onday night, with a 20 percent chance for showers early. Clearing after ni'Jnlght. Low In low 50s. Partly sunny an:I cool Tues1ay. High in ni160s. 

Equal parties for all 


Once upon a tine Father Edward Sorin founded the 
University of "'lotre Dane, a college for nen. Then, in 
1970, wo nen were ad nitted. Although wo nen are for 
the nost part accepted as equals in the classroo nand 
on ca npus, there is at least one area of life at "'lD in 
which the nen's school ato nosphere pervades. 
Last April, at the final neeting of the Hall President's 
Council, an atte npt was nade to clear that stale air. 
Gary Strickland, President of St. Edward's Hall 
presented a proposal to the council. Sun narized, this 
proposal advocates the charge of "a SI ad nittance fee 
at parties in hall party roo ns" to be paid by all people 
entering any party. The question ofwhether students of 
one dor n will he allowed to aftend a party at a dor n 
housing students ofthe sa ne sex nust be decided on an 
individual hall basis. 
The HPC unani nously approved this resolution at 
the April 26 nceting. The council is now waiting for a 
decision fro n the rectors before the plan can be 
hrought before the Ad­
ninistration. 
Although there nay exist flaws in this proposal, it is i nportant that it be foilowe:I through an J not shelveJ. This resolution is one ofthe nost :lrastic steps taken in recent years to es· tahlish a social at nosphere of true co-e1ucation at "'lD. It also coul1 be one of the 
nost successful at reaching 
its goal. It oust he passe J. 
\1ost obviously, the passage of thb proposal woul J relieve the nen of this umversity of ~o ne ofthe tinancial huden of proviJ­in~ a social lite tor the rest of the: ~tu Jent ho .I\'. Their ~u 11 ner an l wori\-slU Jv savmg~ wou!J nm he Jrame 1 hv the hail partv tun J m orJer to neet wo ne·:. 
Con~equently. partie:' in wo nen·, ·.ior ns ,houl.! heco nt· a nore con non sight. 'X'itn such an econo nic' mcent•ve as the $1 a I n~.sswn charge. wo nen 'houl.l h.: 
nore likely to reach I!WJ tht:tr walleb For wo nen win feel inferior at -.;otre Dn no:. thi:-oroptha: wou• .I , leviate the~e ieelmt:·· hv 'intfting so ue of the .-oci.l; responsibility into their lJP'· 
The resoluuon'~ purpose i.s "to i nprove the quaiity oi parties." One such i nprove nent is the expectecl ·1•~­courae;c: nent of party hoppers. for the hosts and ho,. tcs~e:-. who dish out the hucks anJ assu ne th.: responsihility, only to see nen and wo nen drink their alcohol an J nove on, this proposal should he _, welco ne addition to the University partv regulation~. It people atten.J parties to enjov the co npany and nusic, an 'I to Jrink rather than the latter atone, the qualitv of "'lotre Oa ne parties tl'if' he i nprove .!. 

Another aspect ofparties this resolution hopes to i n­prove is to increase the noney spent on food and non­alcoholic beverages. Although this school docs sponsor 
nany activities and events which do not involve al­cohol, the centers for nost interaction between nen and wo nen are the ~otre Dane parties, dripping with beer, assorted punches and nixed drinks. Case in point: the Polish Wedding/Chance to Dance did not exactly pack 'en in at Stepan Center and neither did it serve alcoholic beverages. A sa:I con nentary on the stu­
dents. 

The S 1 ad nission fee is ·Jesigned to furnish nore funds for the purchase of these non-alcoholic groceries. "Designed" b the key worJ in that sentence because there is no wav that thh provision of the proposal can he enforce .l. The proposal also states that "there should he no profit 
naking intention." Thi~ too is unenforceable anJ therefore also very opti nis­tic. 
It i~ quite trusting of the HPC to helicve that the in -Jividual halls will in fact pur­
~~~~ ,A.-1-<..,a,-.-cha~e non: (or in n '·t 
ca~e~ any} foo J an l non· alcoholic hevera~t',. Doe' the HPC nelieve that at·alli I hope thev Jo, an·J I hope that the halls prove ·.leservtn..: 
of tht-tru,t an .1 re·.pect tl10~e student' who Jo not ltkc the ta...te anJ/or ettect ot aicohol t)y followim; thi~ prov,...ion ofth<" propo~al ifit p:t~ ..e... A.; :1 re t.mJcr, ...,.­
thirJ of .!II part\· fun .i, :trc .tlreaJy 'uppo..e-1 to he .pent on non-alcoholic beverage., an J too I a~ spcct.tic J by Cniversty pJrty rcgul.ttiv:l'. 
.\~ nentioneJ cariier, then: 1nr he !laws t with tht' propo-,;tl. Fir..c a uong these h:t' to he the propo,al', questionable overall ciiectivene''· The aJ nission fet· wili surelv soften the hlow to the nen'' wallets. But wiil 
nore wo nen's dor n' reallv throw nore parties? Will 
nore nonev he Jevote l to fooJ awJ non-alcollolic beverages? It seen~ that uore than a propo.,;tl h needc·J: the stu'Jent' nee J to cone to a sense ofshare 1 re,pon~ihility an j re,pect tor all stu·Jenh. 
Co 'lposlttotJ E '/ltor ................................ J.P. Co 'lposltlo'l Asslsttmt ...................... Clare Typesetters ............................................. 'lick Vews E Jltor ............................................ To n Copy E·lltor ............................................. Any Sports Copv E Jltor ....,...., ..................... \tike E-lltorla/s Layout.................................. To n F.aturt~s Layout................. Sarah an J \tary A 1 f'Jeslg" ............................................... \tary Pbotograpber ....................................... Tho n Gwst App.mrcmces. 'lc:w 8oss AI, Scotty, Tl n, no Rlichc:s, tunes 
The ObeerWI' (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Obe«ver is published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Mary's College. Subscnptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrning The Obeerver. P 0 Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The ObeerWI' is a member of The Auocllllecl PreA. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
EARN WHILE YOU LEARN 

It's Easy. Just come in to our new, modern facility and relax in comfy reclining chairs, while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA 
I H If you bring this coupon, you'll receive an additional $4 Come to: AMERICAN PLASMA CENTER 
515 Llncolnwey Weat, South Bend $4 If you bring this coupon, you'll receive an additional $4 
UPT0$16/WEEK IN CASH 

($7 lor 11.-.t donetlon end S8 lor the second In the same calendar wHk) AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
515 LlncolnwayWest, South Bend 234-6010 OPEN 9am to 5pm Wed. & Fri. Bam to 5pm Tues. & Sat. Closed Mon. & Thurs. BRING YOUR 10 
The .Observer 


Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -U.S. and British jet fighters roared over Beirut in a show of force Sunday as 
nortar shells struck \1arine posi­tions near the airport: Christian­Druse fighting was reported spreading south fro n the Chouf 
nountains. 
The Lebanese ar ny said there were fierce overnight battles for the key nountain town of Souk el Gharb. so ne five niles southeast of Beirut in an area where Druse and Christian nilitias have been locked in fighting for nore than a week. 
The Christian nilitia said it turned over several captured villages to the tehanese ar ny, which failed to enter the region when Israeli troops withdrew two weeks ago. As soon as the Israelis pulled back to southern Lebanon, intense fighting broke out between the Christians and Orus~. 
British Buccaneer fighter jets roare•J low over the capital to sup­port the British, French, Italian and A nerican peacekeeping forces, while a \1arine spokes nan said U.S. F-14 To neat fighters flew "reconnaissance nissions" over the capital and the nearby nountains. 
The 1,200-nan \1arine contin­gent sera nbled into bunkers when two nortar rounds struck, but the shelling eased after an hour. ~o in­juries were reported. 
At least a dozen shells fell be­tween the U.S. bunkers and a nearby Lebanese ar ny e nplace nent, which began returning fire. 
Lebanon's state-run radio 
reported intense artillery exchanges 

BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank is pleased to announce the opening of our new office at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, on August 29, 1983! 
Free checking is available to St. Mary's and Notre Dame 
students and faculty. In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday August 29 -September 2 -9:0.0 a.m. -5:30 p.m. September 6-September 16 -12':00 noon-5:30p.m. Permanent hours to be announced. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! . _..... \: . ' 
' ' ·~·, F .T 


Monday, September 12, 1983 -page 3 
Nicaragua air attacks new method for rebels 
Associ ted Press 
MAl\:AGUA. 1\icaragua -Rebels fighting the left-wing Sandinista government have escalated their at­tacks by launching air raids, but the new tactic doesn't appear to pose an immediate threat to the government and could hacktire. 
Sandinista anti-aircraft fire, never tested hetore in combat, brought down one of two planes that at­tacked Managua and its airport on Thursday. Another plane that was backing rebel troops near the Costa Rican border was shot down Friday. 
Also on Friday, two vintage T-28 fighters attacked the port facility and a key bridge at Corinto on Nicaragua's north Pacific coast, damaging a chemical storage tank. 
Nicaragua said its anti-aircraft bat­teries drove off another three-plane attack on an army compound near the Costa Rican border Friday eve­ning. 
The raids killed one person, a Managua airport customs employee, and caused considerable but reparable damage. 
Tri to the Vatican Exhibit The Department of Art, Art History and Design will be sponsoring a trip to the Art Institute of Chicago on September 29 or October 4 (depending on availability of tickets) to see the The Vatican Collections: The Papacy and Art. The total cost for the trip, including 
transportation & admission to the exhibit will ! be $15. Payment in full must be made at the ! Art Department ollice,132 O'Shaugnessey,t by 5:00pm, Monday, September 12. 
Attention Seniors!!! 
Senior Portrait Sign-ups Septo 12 • 15, 4:30·6:30 North and South Dining Halls 0-{; Students caD Patty at 3097 orJane at 6849 
Please pay by Check or bring Exact Change ..•. 

..•••••••••-••-•••clip& save--•••••••••••••m1 
I 
THE DELl 
1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN 
PARTY SUBS 

3 Meats, 2 Cheeses &Choice of Toppings 1 
3 feet serves 20-25 ...$30.00  
4 feet serves 25-30 ...$37.50  
5 feet serves 30-35 ... $45.00  
6 feet serves 35-40 ...$50.00  
ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS  
&SALADS  
2ss-1191  I  
I  
Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance  If  
Free Delivery on Orders Over $50  :  
Je'ff Etoll, owner, N D '78  :  
•  I  

-••••..-·---··clip & save-•••••r--•••••J 
It appears probable the raiding planes departed from secret airstrips in Costa Rica, which borders Nicaragua on the south and is the base for the Democratic Revolution­ary Alliance-ARDE. It is one oftwo rebel organizations trying to topple the government. 
Costa Rica has denied, however, that the planes used Costa Rican air­fields. ARDE leaders claimed they flew out of rebel airstrips inside Nicaragua. 
A foreign diplomat who requested anonymity described the raids as a "publicity coup" for ARDE and its co-leader, Eden Pastora, a hero of the 1979 Sandinista revolutivn who defected 18 months ago. 
But the impact of the raids ap­pears limited and might even ain support tor the government. 
The attacks were. condemned by all five Central American foreign ministers, some ofwhom would like to see the Sandinistas out ofpower. 
The air strikes were seen as part of a change in rebel tactics to direct t­tacks at Nicaragua's weak economy 
ather than at the militaq, one of the 
strongest in the region. 
between nilitia nen in several villages south of the Chouf -in­·Jicating a possible Druse plan to sweep south of the Lebanese ar ny and Christian nilitia positions along the Souk el Gharb nountain ridge to the \1editerranean Sea. 
A Druse spokes nan in Beirut said Druse nilitia units had reached villages only 400 yards east of the coast. 
As the fighting spread south, hundreds of Christian and \1osle n refugees fled into Israeli-occupied southern Lebanon, saying they were trying to escape bo nhard nents fro n the Chouf ranges. 
A Lebanese ar ny con nunique ~aid two Lebanese soldiers and at 
continuedfrom page 1 
provi1ed Chile with nany graeluates working as Holy Cross associates. 
Despite the intens& govern nent repression in the country, the church has re nained strong in the country. \1any there, however, believe that the church has scftene1 its position on hu nan rights since Car:iinal Raul Henriquez Silva's retire nent and replace nent by Archbishop Juan Francisco Fresno last year. 
Scully disagrees with this, though he does see a difference in personal style between the two nen. He · believes that Fresno is nore a per­sonalist than was Silva, who he thinks had a "fir n, broad under­standing ofwhere the violence cane least two Palestinian guerrillas were killed in the fighting aroun•J Souk el :iharh. 

But Western nilitary sources said 1 U.S.-trained Lebanese unit, con­;idered the best in the Lebanese 
r ny, was overrun in the battle. Fourteen Lebanese soldiers were killed, 28 wounded and 28 others were nissing in the fierce hand-to­hand fighting, they added. 
Israeli radio quoted Defense \1in­ister \1oshe Arens as telling a Cabinet neeting Sunday that Israeli 
soldiers could push forwad fro n their ·kfense line to strike at Pales­tinian guerrillas. 
• • . Chile 

fro n." He also believes that Fresno has not been in office long enough to gain the antipathy of his pre-Jeces­sor. 
Scully also ~ees Fresno as being nore open to -Jialogue with the regi ne than Silva. He is skeptical, however, that the -Jialogue will he fruitful. "The tine for 'lialogue was ~ight years ago. Any :lialogue can't :ake place without the presence of 
those who suffere:l." 
Scully receive:! both his un:ler­~ra:luate ::Iegree an:! his \1aster's of uivinity fro n ~otre Da ne. During his four years in Chile, he ha:l a research job as a staff econo nist for the CCIPE, an e·Jucational institute for the church. He was also involved in pastoral ninistry an-J taught at St. George's College. 

Monday, September 12, 1983-page 4
The Observer World recovery hinge·s on developed nations 
Associated Press countries, an1 particularly in the Unite·J States, into better balance," the stu-.ly by the 146-ne nbe~ I \iF 
WASIII"'<;TQ"' -The worU's said. e~:ono nic picture re r.ain~ nurky \1any econo nists are concerne·J bt•ctu~e of the severe Jcbt crisis that the govern nent's heavy a nong poort·r ~:ountrie~ anJ threab .le nan .b for creJit to finance the of re,trktivt· traJe actions by in· U.S. huJget Jeficits -projecteJ to 
lu,trialize I nation' enjoying reach a recor J S209.8 billion this c~:ono ni<.: rc~:ovcry, the lnternation· year -will colliJe with the neeJs of al \1onetary Fun .I 'aLl ye,tcday. businesses an .I <.:onsu ners. The 
The I \11' also ,aiJ in its annual result, they say, will he higher long· r<·port that "tht· nost pre,sing task" ter n interest rates, which cou!J t;tcing worl.llea .lers is to ensure that eventually stall the recovery. 
the recovery continues at a low­So ne Reagan officials, however, inllation pace <Ill J sprea Js to the Jisagree about the effect of the poorer countrie'. -Jeficits on the recovery. And 
But, the report warneJ, the Treasury Secretary Oonal1 Regan 'trength an I lurahility of the recently bla neJ financial institu· econo nic u t pturn arc thre.tteneJ by tion' for keeping interest rates up. 
enor nous bu lget ldkih · in the In ib 'ttl'ly, the I \iF Jealt at length l'nite l '>tate,, which c.tn putupwar I with the conJition., in the Jevelop­prco;,ure on mtcre't r.ttt". ing worl 1, particularlr the Jebt 
"It will il(" vital to bring fi.,cal 
trouhlc, of poorer countrie,_ 

A real thriller 
'itu.ttwn' in the l;~rgcr in .lu.,trial "For all .lcvelopmg ~:ountric~. ga ne cause t \f. B.A. Bill Bm tie)' to pass oilt fro n the
econo nic pro,pect' now Jepen J crudallr on the progress of Secon 1-halj action. i•z Satur lt1)1's Pur lue football 
excite >lent in front ofhis teletlislon. 

! .
I-----------------------------------.,
! See Notre Dame I iand The Hurricanes ! 1 I create a storm. !I I ······ I I EASTERN'S CLASSIC I
I COLLEGE FOOTBALL WEEKEND-I
I ONLY $272 to $332-I
I INCLUDING AIRFARE. I
I 

Now you can spend time in two special activities planned for you by I 
great places at the same time. your Alumni Association and the I I For only $272-$332 per person~ Miami-Dade Department of Tourism. 1 I you can spend four days and three And to help you get around, we've 1 I nights in one of 12 quality hotels in included a General Rent-A-Car subcom-1 I beautiful sun-filled Greater Miami and pact for three days::· 1 I the Beaches. And you can watch Notre For more information, call your I I Dame take on the University of Miami Accredited Travel Agent, or Eastern 1 at Miami's Orange Bowl. Eastern also Airlines at 639-6611 in Indianapolis. 
I 
I offers other great low prices from all *Prices are effective from Chicago or Indianapolis for I over the U.S. for Notre Dame alumni travel to Miami 9/16-23/83 and return from Miami 9/25-II and tor students' families. 30/83 only. A minimum three-night stay is required.
Extra nights available at additional cost Reservations 
range speaker with a I 
The price includes a ticket to the must be made at time of purchase. Prices are per person, 1
lifetime warranty 
I · double occupancy, at selected hotels subject to avail­1 game at the 0 range Bow1startmg at ability; deposit requirements and cancellation penalties I1 BASIC LOUDSPEAKER 9 p.m. on Saturday, September 24th. apply. Meals, gratuities, taxes are not included. Prices I And when you're not watching may change without notice. 1
I tGas, Collision Damage Waiver of $5.50 daily,the game, you can be soaking up insurance. and dror·off fees, if applicable. not 1I the sun, or fishing or sailing included. Renta car is subcompact and is I 
, included for three 24-hour periods only.
JA,,o I or enjoying MiamiS great Minimum rental age is 21. II restaurants. Plus, there are ©1983 Eastern Air lines, lnc. I
o•v ~\t'-' I ~: I 
I . ·~ ,_. I 
I EAST-ERN~~~~·~ ~ I
•''0

,,401 N. Michigan I America's favorite way to fly® 1 South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 234-5001 I I 
L------~--------, ....-.J-----------------.. 

The Observer Monday, September 12, 1983 -page 5 
Right denounces Korean response 
Associated Press 
WASHI"'GTO"' Pro ninent conservatives, 1enouncing Presi­Jent Reagan's response to the shoot­ing Jown of a Korean airliner as "incre1ihly ina1equate," appear sharply Jivi1e1 on whether to ahan­Jon their support ofhi n as the 1984 ca npaign approaches. 
So ne leaJers ofthe "'ew Right­

notably Richad Viguerie an j 
Howad Phillips -say they want to 
Ju np Reagan in f.tvor ofa nore con­
servative presi1ential can-JiJate, 
even though they acknowle1ge such 
a ca npaign is futile. 
But there are in -Jications that the presi1ent's political right flank is hol1ing, Jespite the conservatives' spoken 1isappoint nent. 
"'ot a single conservative Republican in the House or Senate, nany of who n favor stronger anti­Soviet steps in response to the 
• • .Soviets 

continuedfrom page 1 
Soviet fighters or that any warnings 
-visual, ra1io, gunfire -were 
given," the State Depart nent saii. 
At the White House, where an ear­

lier translation of the Soviet co n­
nunications was release1 on 

Tues1ay, PresiJent Reagan's prin­
cipal spokes nan Larry Speakes 
coulj not he reache1 for con nent. 
The press 1utyofficer, Kin Hoggar1, 
sal1, "The White House 1oesn't have 
anything to ajj to it or clarify it 
with." 
Senate Republican lea ier Howarj 

H. Baker Jr. sai1, "Even ifyou accept the ijea that these were warning shots, it is still no justification hy any stretch of the i nagination for 1owning a civilian airliner." 
"But in all fairness, fro n that con­versation I can't tell whether those were tracer bullets," Baker, R-Tenn. sai 1 on CBS-TV's Face the "'ation. "I really Jon't think there's any point in trying to Jeter nine that. I 1o not think it changes the grueso ne nature of the Soviet assault on the plane." 
Aske-1 if he suspecte 1 the South 

Korean plane was on an intelligence 
nission, as the Sovieb have charge 1, 

Baker sai J, "I have no such infor na­
tion, no such suspicion." He a 1 le j 
he has receive _t "absolute as­
surances" fro n U.S. officials that the 
plane was not spying. 
The Soviet t)nion has insiste 1 that its pi lob trie 1, first hy ra Jio an 1 then hy firing warning cannon bursts with tracer shells, to signal the ;tircraft that ha 1 intru 1e J Soviet :tir-.pace. The Kre nlin conten 1s the plane was on a spy nission. 
In a rare two-hour news con­

terence Fri iav. soviet \lar...hal 
'\ikolai Ogarkov sai .I four bursts of 
warning shots with 120 tracer 
roun b were fire I at 18:20 (;reen 
wich \1ean Tine ((;\1T), whin• 
coinci Jes with the ti ne on the new 
'-tate f)epart nent transcript. The 
transcript quotes the interceptor 
pilot, i Jentifie 1 only as "805," as 
reporting to his groun1 controllers, 
"I have broken off lock-on. I a n 
firing cannon bursts." 
The earlier transcript ha i quote 1 hi n only as saying he was switching offhis nissile lock-on, a Jevice use i to select a heat-seeking nissile's tar­get. 
.---nnmnnmu-• • w ·-~ 
Roc.co's Ha1r 
LJstyling 
531 N. Michigan St., 
South Bend 

jl Phon~.:~:~-­
1owning of the plane, has broken with Reagan politically over the issue. Any challenger to Reagan woul j likely co ne fro n Congress, an1 ai1es to the Republican lea1er­ship in both the House an 1 Senate say they have not head any talk along those lines. 
An'l nany conservatives point out that a challenge to Reagan woul1 in­crease the election chances of the De nocratic can:!Hate next year, an1 that all contenJers for the party's no nination are nore liberal than Reagan. The 'lational Con­servative Political Action Con nit­tee is p:-ocee1ing with its planne-:1 
nulti· nillion 1ollar ca npaign to secure Reagan's re-election. 
"He is the nost articulate, nost char ning, nost aggressive con­servative we've ha1, possibly since Theodore Roosevelt," sai-l Rep. 
"'ewt Gingrich, R-Ga., one of the 
nore conservative ne nhers of the 
House. "There's no reason to waste our energies on an internal civil war." Gingrich i.-; one of nany Republicans who say they wish Reagan ha j taken stronger action against the Soviets. 
Rep. Phil Crane, R-Ill., a veteran conservative, is on recod for tough sanctions against Russia. Even so, says a spokes nan, "He hopes he'll (Reagan) run for re-election an'l he'll support hi n." 

So far~ Reagan has ie nanJeJ an explanation an j reparation pay­
nents, hut his nain action against the Soviet govern nent has been to severely curtail operations of Aeroflot, the Russian airline. 
The anti-Reagan rhetoric is roug­
hest a nong conservatives who are 
not electe1 politicians. 
"It's clear that just about every conservative I know thinks that Reagan's response is incre1ihly in­a -:!equate to the challenge," says Phillips, hea j of the Conservative Caucus. "It's less than we woul j ex­pect fro nJi n ny Carter." 
But when Viguerie r:tise 1 the i Jea of supporting another conservative against Reagan, the response was lukewar n. Several people s:ti1 Viguerie raise1 the Hea last week at a hreakf.tst at his house. 
"I w:1s aske1 to join In that effort ani I 1ecllne1," sai·J Paul Weyrich, a pro ninent "'ew Right lea Jer :m J hea J of the Co n nittee for the Sur­vival ofa Free Congress. 

AHentlqn SMC Clubs 
All requests for funds must be turned in to the Student Activities Office in the Haggar College Center by tomorrow at 2 PM No Form -No $$$ 
In the past, when a nation felt threatened by unruly mobs, the Queen called her professionals the Royal lancers. Today, when you feel threatened by unruly hair, call on the professionals at 
THE ROYAL LANCER 
University Commons Courtyard  
(S.R. 23 next to Tempo Fashions)  ~  
Walk-ins are welcome  
Weekdays 9-6  
Saturday 9-3  
~!len ord Women's Hoirstyling 272-7880  . -~"  

Peruse The Observer Today page care­fully for the next three weeks ... 

There will soon be a contest to deter· mine this year's campus comic strip! 

.~PPholo 
Stu le'lts fight police with roclz.~ ;., IOW'IIOW'I .~tl'llltlgo tit the Plaza Ita/Itt Thurs tav lurl'lg tt "?ttV of Vl(tio'ltll Protest." PoUce "'' I le 'IO'Istrators fought a haclz "" Iforth hattie which we>Jt O'J for hours. Arrests"" t i>Jjuries were reporte f. 

to publish this fall. We need It immediately. Submit to Press, 239 O'Shag. • 


September 1 2 
Hiroshima, Mon Amour 119591 F'ance Directed by Ala1n Resna1s In French wtth English subl1tles 8 W. 88 m'n 
The love alfa1r of a French act··ess and a JapanesP .1rchllecl1s hHIJnled by memones of World War 11 A landmark t1lm ol lt1p French N~w Wave 

Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission· 
... · · ' , ---00 .,~
• lrt() ~ II t(71ti lr-$o..2 ­



Hickory Smoked Ribs_ Fried Chicken Deliciously Thick Pizza 
1835 LWE, South E;end, ln. Phone: 288-8240 
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet Granger, ln. Phone: 277-3143 
Buy a Rib Tip & Chicken Dinner at Regular Price and get the Second at 1f2 Price Must Remit Coupon 
Complete Carry Out-Phone Ahead 
Not valid in combination with other coupons No cash value. or specials Expires Sept. 30, 1983. 
Seniors 

Last day for payment of the balance for the Senior Trip is tomorrow, Tues, 9/13. Take your $260 to the travel agency or your spot will be given away and deposit forfeited 



.----------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 12, 1983-page 6
View~oint 

Shooting down the human 
Suddenly, as with a lightening flash, an Yuri Andropov may well be dismayed at the But this is panic nonsense. The real punish­It hasn't happened. What has emerged in­event reveals in all its starkness the nature ofa widespread sense ofoutrage which may leave ment, ifit evercomes, will come from a shift in stead is a disciplined, dehumanized regime and its military and political mentality. his skillfully wrought propaganda structure in the world perception of Russian "peace and automaton. In cases where the human im­That happened with the Soviet act in the fatal shambles. If he is upbraiding his generals he friendship" rhetoric. pulse sought to assert itself it has been 
P.O. BoxQ  
U.N. worthless Dear Editor, Although C. Maxwell Stanley is correct in his assertion that the U.S. response to the most recent events in Chad is the wrong one, his alternative of allowing the hopes of peace­starved Chadians to rest in the earphones of the U.N. Security Council is value-less. Too many conflicts of the past have simply become the stage on which diplomats ex­ercise rhetorical devices. Chad deserves bet­ter than this. Having spent two years as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Chad, I know the suffering and heartache with which most Chadians share their meagre quarters. But international bodies -by their very nature of being gran­diose forums -have no solace to offer. They have merely speeches and resolutions which, sad to admit, ultimately have no bearing on what takes place in these quarters. The Chadian problem will only be solved by Chadian and other African state~. when the reason for considering this land­locked tract as one sovereign nation shines  forth in the eyes ofthose tribes who live there. ON -KILLER OF INNOCENT PEOPLE. After people are sincerely mourning the deaths of Nothing else will work. pausing a moment I decided to pick up thi~ the airplane passengers. The majority of Neither U.S. AWACS nor French piece ofcardboard and throw it into a nearb} American people -and certainly America's paratroopers, nor even well-intentioned U.N. trashcan. Yes, also for envionmental con­_ . bureaucrats have anything to offer Chad but siderations, but more so for political reasons. leading politicians ­are using this incident to more suffering, heartache, and death. This is As I continued walking toward the Library I ring-in yet another round in the Cold War one country where international intervention found that somebody had misused a a piece of fighting. (least of all, of the military variety) is clearly chalk to scribble USSR MURDERERS on the not helpful and -given mounting lists of sidewalk. If 1 had had anything with me to What would have been an appropriate sign casualties ­doubtlessly harmful. erase this statement I surely would have done of mournftingh? Howh abuo~t sdomse introspectioln.How o en as t e mte tates purpose yso. Michael Varga Why? killed innocent people? How often has the FormerPeace Corps Volunteer in Chad Yes, I do agree with most people and l do United States murdered? not dispute the fact that a Soviet pilot shot down a commercial airliner, killing all the pas­What did Jesus say -and I don't think that sengers. I also agree that this is murder. it is inappropriate to remind the University ofStone throwers However, I felt intellectually offended by the Notre Dame community ofJesus's words -to apparent finger-pointing. I became sad when Dear Editor, realizing that apparently a great number of those who caught the woman in adultery? This past Saturday as I was walking towards American people displayed.. ~:!Jiso,ious joy Jesus said: "Whichever one of you has com­the Memorial Library Building I came past the about the people who were killed, since now mitted no sin may throw the first stone at the Administration Building. At the front entrance it has been "proven" how bad and evil those I found a piece of cardboard lying in the communists really are. Listening to the public Soviet Union." (Paraphrase of)ohn 8:7) sidewalk. The inscription read: SOVIET UNI-reactions, l don't believe that the American jurgen Brauer  

Campus comments··llmnrv ·~n ..~··~-.~, • ._ ..... 
What is your favorite place on the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's campus? 

Senior Bar-the only place on cam­pus where socializing remotel) resembles real life. Both guys ant girls can meet each other in a relax ed, fun place. 
Molly McUslc Economics major Class of '84 
The library-it's quiet and I can get a lot of studying done there. I also like reading the Chicago papers in the periodical center. 
Frank Gasior 
ALPP 
Class of '87 

The lakes-They're quiet and a great place to just go and relax either with a friend or alone. 
Jim Supple 
Mechanical Engineering 
Class of'85 
My favorite place on the St. rvtary's campus is right outside Holy Cross hall. From there you can see all the way down the path to Notre Dame. 
Robin Jadown Business/ Accounting Class of '87 
My favorite place on campus is the Grotto. I have found that I am able to release my tensions from school there. 
Kirk M. Flagg Gate guard 

destruction of the Korean passenger jet. 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 

By any logic oflaw, politics or power it was an idiotic act. By any logic in humanity it was a debased one. 
But adjectives won't bring the 269 dead back to life nor affect the cast ofmind that shot the plane down. We lack a Zola to hurl a searingj'accuse at the Soviet Politburo. The Russians who might do it -Solzhenitzuin, Sak­harov, Anatoly, Shcharansky -are in exile or prison. 
must reflect that he is in power through their support and will hold it ultimately at their suf­ferance. Both Soviet external rhetoric and its defense policies are part of an overall grand strategy. It is not only the military mentality of Soviet leadership which is involved but its basic mentality. 
It is this consistency ofthe Soviet fabric that Western and Third World intellectuals miss. The hard evidence of the Soviet ground con­trol directing the fighter pilot to destroy the "target" will also leave them unmoved. 
There is much talk of "punishing" the Rus­sians, and ofa whole punitive agenda, includ­ing cancellation of the grain deal and exclusion ofSoviet planes from American air­ports. 
American policy has too often swung be­tween extremes ofdetente and confrontation, depending on whether honeyed words or brutal actions were foremost in the news. The Jimmy Carter who declared himself shocked by the Afghanstan takeover was the Jimmy Carter who had come into office determined on military disengagement in South Korea. 
The leaders who became disillusioned about the Soviet mentality are those who start with illusions. 
In the 1950's and 1960's there was talk ofa new "Soviet man" -disciplined, committed, unalienatd. Marx himself in his early writings had foreseen a more "humanist" man who would c orne out ofthe revolutions. 
quelled. A knowledgable American intel­
ligence expert speaks of six air defense 
.... 

colonels in the Soviet Far East who were "shot for failure to shoot down American aircraft." It is a chilling thing to reflect on what this 
might mean in the event ofa nuclear accident. 
The Soviet Union has not yet joined in a world 
community ofhuman values. We shall have to 
com~ to terms with this realiry and not permit 
it to destroy the necessary East-West relations 
-and especially the arms reduction talk.'l. 
}"bey rest not on illusions about the Soviet .....ty but on the imperatives ofthe human 
in all ofus. 
Copyright 1913, Loa Anaeles Times Syndicate 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
~&.-====== Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic Box Q. Noire Dame. IN 46556 (.!19) .l39-5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ............... Daniel O'Hare 
The Ohserr•er is the independent newspaper published bv the students of the Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas vl·rsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager .. ............. Chris Owen the polines of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as al­News Editor . ................. ~ark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzaum: i...a Croix curatel-y and as objenively as possible. llmi~ned ediiOrials represent the opinun of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrs~~hb'lf,c~(qtjon Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto. majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. leners, and the Inside Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamilto11 System Manager ............... Kevin Williams tht· v1ews ofthl·ir authors. Column "pace is availabk lo all members ofthe community. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower and the free expres,ion of varvin~ opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. Sports Editor ... -....... !\1ichael Sullivan_ 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Showcase 
Monday, September 12, 198~-page 7 
Who is that lady with the paint brush? 
by Nick Laflamme 

D 
rifting across campus, one often comes across people recording their impressions ofNotre Dame in forms more permanent than their memories. Some are alumni snap­ping pictures of their families on the old stomping grounds, while others are artists trying to capture the beauty ofthe scenery on canvas. Many of the artists, and photog­raphers fall short oftheir goals simp­ly because ofa lack ofskill or dedication. Others, however, ex­perience artistic success which of­ten brings them financial reward. 
Mrs. Helene Pike is one such artist. The wife ofa Notre Dame his­tory professor, Mrs. Pike is quietly building a reputation on campus as a talented artist despite having painted for only four years. Often seen occupying the same spot for days on end during the late after­noon hours, Mr t s. Pike started paint­ing after retiring as a music teach<;r in the local school system. She took an art class as a way ofgetting out of the house, and soon discovered a hidden talent. Her painting ability was especially surprising to her, be­cause she has no "visual memory," no remembrance ofwhat she> sees. 
Mrs. Pike especially rrtes to em­phasize the soft coloring ofthe buildings in her paintings, creating a muted effect. Bee use of this style, many have described her work as being impressionistic in nature. 
Mrs. Pike's muted colors have brought her a degree ofboth finan­cial artistic and financial success. She does accept commissions, and has no qualms about painting whatever building is wan1ed.Recently the Law School chose two ofher paintings to be dis­played in the new law center in Lon­don, which was dedicated this past summer. Still, she doesn't consider that to be the greatest honor the Uni­versity could confer upon her. She would love to have the Notre Dame magazine publish one ofher paint­ings in color, but even that would not be her idea ofthe ultimate honor. To this fan ofNotre Dame, having one ofher paintings reproduced in a football program would be her greatest triumph. 

Fine acting and techniques take risk out of business 
by Stephen Thomas 

W
ith so 'llany recent "teen-age" co'lledies following a traditional for'llula ofshallow plots, slapstick humor and meaningless sex, writer­ClirectorPaul Brick'llan saw a neeafor somethingin this genre. This su'11 'ller, Brick'llan has given us Riskf Buisness, a flashy satire about a high school senior who turns his house into a neighborhood party center when his parents leave fOr a weekend vacation. 
To'll Cruise plays Joel Goodson (good son), a "nice guy" who works hard in school and is not known for being party-oriented. WhenJoel's parents tell hi'll they're leaving for a we'ekend, he thinks nothing ofit. His friends, however, en­courage hi•n to take advantage ofthe e'llpty house and put his books aside for awhile. Vulnerable Joel gives in. 
While such a story line 'llay see'11 all too fa'lliliar, "Risky Business" puts forth an extra effort that 'llakes it a little less usual and a little 'llore creative. At ti•nes, it see'lls al'llost artsy or new wave, like a 'llusical video disc. 
\luch credit 'llUSt be given to the fil'll's stars, a very i'llpressive collection offresh talent. Torn Cruise, who'll the fil'll's ad describes as a model son, does an excellent job ofconveying his fears, confusion and guilt over the events that take placeduring his weekend spree. Rebecca de \lornay plays a prostitute who visitsJoel on his first nightatonel out soon drags him into her red-light district worla. Her character portrayal, like most ofpros­titutes, was not stale and impared. de \fornay prevents her character from dropJ>ing to a one Climensioallevel. Throughout the filrn she changesin her role from being}oel's "call girl," to his busi­ness woman, and then finally his friend: 
Camera artist Bruce Surtes makes effective use of certain techniques to emphasize specific qualities ofthe film's characters, such as usmg close -up shots to e'llphasize the dominance ofJoel's parents.
Selected songs from groups such as Bob Seger, the Police and a riveting theme from Tangerine''Drea'll are a definite plus for the fil'll. 
Risky Business, a cornbinaton offine acting and superior technical quality, is well worth the high pnce ofad 'llission. 

by Chris Fraser 
W
e have been in school two 
weeks already. We have added 
classes (tentatively). We have 
dropped classes (ker-plunk). We 
have 'lleticulously 'llanicured our 
new roo'lls. We have 'llaliciously 
'llessed up the sa'lle. We are rea­
quainted with aquaintances and 
once again are straigt about everyone's na'lles. \iost certainly, the excite'llent ofbeing ho'lle again in Indiana has begun to fade and I for one a'll ready to settle into so'lie­thing rese'llbling a routine. 
Toward this end, I now know when and where 'llY new classes are. I know when and where 'llY new roo'llates like to sleep. And I still re'lle'llber when and where there are long lines at the dining hall. Indeed, there's only one 'llore thing I need to know in order to face the bulk ofschool year 1983-84. When is MASH on? 
Ofcourse, 1''11 not talking about pre'lliere episodes. We all know that the network series officially ended last winter. (What was that last date trivia buffs? Hint: February 28.) Besides, those pri'lle ti'lle shows weren't the staples of 'lly liASH diet anyway. And surely 1''11 not talking abouvifterliASH, that potentially dreadful new series that CBS is producing in an effort to cash in on the good na'lle of liASH. A rehash of liASH one 'llight c~l it, and an un­fortunate one at that. I' '11 afraid it 'llight even be b:.rl enouldt to get 'lle 
over to the library. 
Obviously, what 1''11 referring to are those delightful previously-:>ired liASH episodes that grace the airwaves twice or thrice daily around the country. Yes, these episodes are previously-~'-..-. the degrading and insulting label re­run is hardly appropriate for such classics ofthe electronic 'llediu'11. Re-run suggests old, unwanted, can­celled, and endlessly redundant. The 
BratlvBunch (another fa'llily crisis 
in paradise) and Gilligan's/slant/ 
(not another near rescue) have re­
runs. And even those older classics 
like TheHoney·nooners andLeave It 
to Beaver which 'llay be entertain­
ing to a new generation are re-runs. 
Black and white trans'llission, dated 
clothes, and hunky-dory.the'lles 
·nakes us laugh at these shows as of­
ten as we laugh with the'll. 
"Previously-aired," on the other hand, is a ter'll that fits 'lfASH well. It at once suggests the appealing cockiness ofa Hawkeye Pierce and the downright stuffiness ofa Charles Winchester. 
Anyway, back to 'lly original ques­tion: when is liASH on? Clearly, 'llY lack ofknowledge in this area indi­cates a sad deL.nquency in rny school preparations but things have been pretty hectic lately. Yes, yes I know the legions ofloyal liASH watchers will clai'll that such disloyalty is in­excusable or even treasonous and to these people I hu'llblv apoln~ze. 
For the past three years, 'llY din­ner, studying, and social schedules have depended on those two crucial half-hours when 'lfASH is shown. Alas, the abnor'll~lties ofour bor­derline ti'lle zone (are we on Chicago ti'lle or New York ti'lle, wait does that 'llean it's 4 o'clock in \iichigan or 6?) causes liASH to 'llove around anywhere between 4 and 7, forever dodging the local and national news. Thus, fro'll week to week, one can never be quite sure if a quick bite at 4:30or a leisurely sup­per at 5:30 is the 'llost prudent of dinner plans. 
Is watching liASH really all that i•nportant? While certainly it won't save the world or your GPA, there are other benefits ofloyal 'lfASH watching that cannot be ignored. For instance, who can argue with schlu'llping on the couch for a couple ofhalfhours? Indeed, a bit of procrastination is a highly practical argu'llent for the watching of liASH. And as Bill Cosby's Fat Albert used to say: ifyou're not careful you 'llight learn so'llething. Through the hu'llor, a gli•npse ofwar's horrors does, at ti'lles, e'llerge. And we all 'llayeven learn to surpress the Frank Burns in each ofus. After all, no one wants to be selfish, petty, ·naterialiastic, anti a ferret face. Finally :-egular liASH viewing gives us that invaluable sense ofschedule and routine that Dean E'llil re'llinds us is so i'llportant for we college types. Which ofcourse brings 'lle once again to 'llY proble'll: when is liASH on? I suspect I'll find out soon enough. 

The Features Department of 
The Observer 
Ia holdlag a meeting for aU tho•e lnter..ted Ia writing featare8 on Wedne8dav. Sept. 14 at 4 p.m. Ia the omce. All are welcome! 
~-------­
I 

Monday, September 12, 1983 pageS
Sports Briefs 
Sharon Petro's tennis team launched its Call 
ca npaign with a bang this weekend, beating two Big Ten tea ns, Purdue and Illinois. The two wins are the first over Big Ten schools In the history of the tea·n. On Saturday, the Irish crushed a strong Purdue tea n, 7-2, at Purdue. Yesterday, "'otre Da ne took lllinois, 5-4, at Courtney Tennis Center. \lore details on the tea n's excellent weekend will appear in to norrow's paper. -Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team had a 
tough tl ne last Thursday night against national power Purdue. The Boiler nakers rolled to a 15-0, 15-1, 15-2 rout of the Irish. the loss ·Jrops the "'lotre Da ne record to 0-10, nor t e losses than the tea n suffered all last year. The tea n will try to get back on track tonight against SL Francis -Ft. Wayne. The natch will be played at 7 p. n. in the ACC Pit. -Tbe Observer 
Football tryouts for walk-ons w111 be hel1 
to norrow at 4 p. n. Those who woul1llke to tryout should report to Joe Yonto's office In the Football Office In the ACC. -Tbe Observer 
StudeQ.ts interested in co.-npetitive
SWifJl'Dingare urge:I to atten1 an organizational neetlng on Wc·Jnes1ay, Septe nber 14, in roo n 218 of the Rockne \le norial Huil:ling. Wo nen will neet at 4:30, while nen will neet at 5:15. -
Tbe Observer 
The Boxing Clubwill hoi J the first practice for novice boxers to1ay at 4 p. n. in the boxing roo n in the "'lorth Done ofthe ACC. Enter at Gate 3. All intereste:l stu·Jents ;;re invite:l to atten:l. "'lo previous boxing experience Is necessary. If there are any questions, call \like Latz at 8308 or Angelo Perino at 3348. -Tbe Observer 

The club hockey teafJl will be hoi :ling a neeting on today in the ACC Football Auditoriu n at 4 p. n. for all people interested in playing for the tea n. -Tbe Observer 
The Notre Daflle Wofllen's FastpitchSoftball Club will hol1 a nan:latory neeting for anyone in­terested in playing this year. The neeting will be held on We:lnes­day, Septe nber 14, at 7 p. n. in the base nent of Lewis Hall. If you have any questions or cannot atten-J, call Chris Callahan at 3783. -Tbe Observer 
Joeyonto,special assistant to the athletic Jirector, will give a lecture on "How to watch football" at 7:30 p. n. tonightin the ACC Football Auditoriu n. -Tbe Observer 
\like Gann, stan:lout defensive tackle on the football tea n, will be one ofthe featured guesL~ on Speaking ofSports, to nor­row night fro n 10 to 11 p. n. on WS"'ID-A \f 64. -Tbe Observer 
The Wo.-nen's GolfTeaen will have a nan:Jatory neeting tonight at 7:30 in Corby HalL \le nbers shoul:l bring 115 for :lues an1 their class sche:Jules. -Tbe Observer 
The Non-varsity Athletics Office has an­nounce:t :lea:llines for signing up for nore fall sports. We:lnes:lay, Septe nber 14 Is the -Jea1line for gra1uate football, the golf tea n tourney, interhall nen's soccer, out-Joor volleyball, co-ree inner­tube water polo, an-J interhall cross country for both nen an1 wo nen. Ifthere are any questions, call 239-6100.-Tbe Obseroer 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
\4or'ltreal  73  67  .521  
Phil a 18lph1a  73  68  .518  .5  
Sl. Louis  72  69  .511  1.5  
Pinsburgh  72  70  .507  2  
•Ch1cago  63  79  .444  11  
'I-York  59  83  .415  15  
West  
Los Angeles  83  60  .580  
Atlanta  80  63  .559  3  
Houston  75  67  .528  7.5  
San ')iego  71  73  .493  12.5  
Sa1'1 Francisco  66  76  .472  15.5  
Ctrtell1r'lS11  65  79  .451  18.5  

Saturday's Reaulls Chicago B. St. Louis 5 Houstol"' 5, Sar'l Fra11cisco 3 Pittsburgh 6, Phil a 1eiphl I a 5, 1 0 10010gs 1Aontreal10, 'lew York 9 Atlanta 6, Los Angeles 3, 10 lnn1ngs 
Yeatarday'a Reaulla Phil a 1elphia 5, Pittsburgh 3 \Aorrtreal 4, 'le.• York 0 Sl. Louis 2, Chicago 1 Los Angeles 7, All a 'Ita 6 Cincinnati 4, San ')iego 2 Sa~ Francisco 3, Houston 2 
A'liERICAN LEAGUE 
Eaat 

w L Pel. GB Balti nore 65 55 .607 ,'let<oil 81 62 .568 5.5 'lew York 79 63 .556 7 IAIIWaukee 79 114 .552 7.5 Toronto 79 8e .545 8.5 Boston 89 74 .483 17.5 Clevelan1 64 79 .448 22.5 
Weal Chicago 84 59 .587 '<ansasC1tv 67 75 .472 16.5 Texas 67 77 .465 17.5 
Oak•an1 67 78 .462 18 California 64 79 .448 20 \Ainnesota 61 83 .424 23.5 SeanIa 55 67 .387 28.5 
Yeater~ay'a Reoulla Toronto 16, Oaklao16 Balti nore 5, '1-York 3 Boston 4, C•eve•ao 11 i(aosas Cny 3, \Ai008SOta 1 'Jetrort 6, \Ailwaukee 4 Texas 2. Sean•e 1 Chicago 5, California 4. 10 inniogs 
Classified s 

FOR SALE 8 \ASU tix! Call ')ave at 291 NEED GA TIXS FOR ALL HO..E I 'lEE'), LUST, ')ESIRE 2 3 USC TIX 'lee1e11 Two hanlsone, strong, brave 2853 after 5p nor Chip at 284 5263. GA..ES.PETE 255-9198 TERRY 8486 a,1 pious you'lg ne'l to assist i'l Sacre 1 Heart Parish Jr. High, Sun lay School.
L-..-N_O_T_IC_Es-----~1 ..__I_w_~_N_TE_D_____J 

IAEGA BUC'<SI FOR \AICH. ST. 'IEE')S 3 GA'S A \1') 5 STU')E'IT TIC'< I have 2 \Aich St GAs. Looking to Ira 1e lor Sun lay narning fro n 9 15 10 30 a. n.. TICI(ETS ')AVEX3451 ETS FOR IASU. CALL VI'ICE AT 3129 USC stu t1x or GAs. 277 4644. Call \Aollie Bernarl 239 7511 E'I')A') OR \AARY AT 3141. TYPI'IG AVAILABLE 287 4082. BOO'<S 'IEE')E') FOR FOLLOWI'IG Stu lent season tic goes to best offer at 'lEE') 2 Stu lent or 2 GA's for \Aich State. \IULTI..ILLIONAIRE FRIEioiD WILL 
272 1128 after 6 00. 'lee 1 4 GA's for \AICH STATE GA IAE. Please call Laura 8079. PAY ..ULTI-DOLLARS FOR 4·5 TICK­
COURSES ART 4571TALIA'I RE'I.. 

Cash Pail 'lightly lor ')ei1Ve11ng Pizzas. FI'IA'ICE 370, GOV'T 449, \1A'IAGE Call l(ra1g at 1608. ETS TO ..su OR USC. CALL BILL AT \Aust have car. Full or Part T1 ne. Apply'" \AE'IT 231 A'I') THEO 387 WORL ') ,...d 4 ...S.U. G.A.'a 12 an12) Will Pay lesperately nee I nich1gan state ticket, xi7S3. RELIG. BOO'<S FOR SALE FOR
person at Polish Pnnce Ptzzerta 18061 $50 for 2 1850 tor sale stu. season ticket. iave 289 na ne your price, call277 1405 
3079 after 6. I nee I 1 stu ient ticket lor \A1ch. State. Call 
S.R. 23 after 4 FOLLOWI'IG COURSES AL 300, 

'lEE') IASU GA. John 1766 'IEE')E') 2 10 tickets for \A1ch St ga ne '.4ike x6770. Thank you. THE PICTURE ..AN IS BACKI Call for CHRIS AT 234 7279 A 'IYTI\AE. 'lEE') TWO \ASU GA OR STU')E'IT 
FI'IA'ICE 231 A\1') AACCT 261. CALL Any price acceptable Call Bruce at 6760 

your next party or eventI 232-1522. Ask 'lEE') USC GA's John 1 768 TIC'<ETS. WILL PAY WELL. CALL Call ieal for Co tor a io, 'v11a n1, or Ar ny I!IHI, RICKIll GET WELL SOONI KEEP foriMII. \Jee 1 4 GA's for af'ly hone qa ne. Call 
I(EVI\1 8622 t1ckets YOUR CHilo! UP IN THE SKY AND YOUR C1n IV at 2656 GOO 1 IOOklflQ SISter a'l 1 ffi9111S loiOSE TO THE \IATTRESSI IIIWE iesperately neei '.4SU '"-Stu lent ·o1 'lEE') 4 \ASU TIX. STU')E'IT OR GA. 
'lEE') \AICH ST. GA'S CALL Jl'~ 277 LOVE YOUI!I VICKI AND DIAiolloiE 
Ltke to party? E.ur'l $4 7.00 per hour C~ll GA's. Call J1 n al255 7036 in neiiately. WILL PAY$$. FUFILL A l(j')'S ')REA 'A. 2163 'Jelldf23~ 1622, 10a n 5p noo1yp1ease. CALL 6425. 
Ina 'IIIAiolloiERo/speaking. 

HELP! I neei ooe IASU GA. Call Ji nat SSS lor 3 lolavy GA ani 4 Pill. GA. Call
!LOST/FOUND I 
\Aary Ellen 283-7825. Al\1') YOUR \IAiolloiERS 'AI 'I') YOUR \AAiolloiERS 

1723. 'lEE') 2 \,ICHIGA\1 STATE GA's OR 1 
Help retor·n an Alaba na fan before n·s GA A\1') 1 STU~E'IT TICI(E'T. CALL cOST-\j') r;og Wllh 10111als P R \A. ')ark too lateI We ""d lour tlx to the \ISU 'leei 3 '.4SU !IX. Fa n11y co mng fro n 'IJ. I(ATHY AT 2966. Hove 2 '.41CH. ST. GA'S Want to tra Jefor AI 'I') YOUR \IAiolloiERS purple sto11e ...,et 1n qo•1. Call Pdul at 239 ga ne •~ that thla 1tt nented soul can II you can help please call ')eb at 3466. 2 PE\1'1 ST. GA's. Call lisa. X7835. 
5313, or .11 277 4851 $40 rawar J, no be savedI Alaba na fans pay BIG 'JEE') ')ESPERATEL Y 1 'ASU TJCI(ET. questtol'ls dske 1 BUCI(S to s.. !olD... Call 8286 and ask Jesperate for 1 \~SU stu 1. trek. or GA. WILL PAY. CALL I(ATHY 7793 Pter:~se Tra 1e I oHer 2 \A1chrqan Str~te GA If if's IIIAioiNERS that you soek, watch 
lor Greg or \larc Call loiOW. 'Aoney no Object Call John 'lo. 1003. s aoi$50for 2 USC GA sCall Steph 2172 The Observer next week lost gl~!-oses 1'1 a two tone Drown case tf I 'lEE') 'A!CH ST GA'S OR <;TU')S BA') louo J please coli J1 n 7616 Wante':P."o2 1epel'11<:tbte fe '1ales to ;.hare \AICHIGA'I STATE GA tickets oeeieill!l LY. CALL WILL AT234 4511 Help! Paref'lts are co n111g With ny favonte WSNO Ra11o is loOkll'lQ for Art1sts. Or 
'tVII"lY experlc;;eo;; 111 r1 '11C8, furrushe 1 Cell An iy nl 3676 orother 8'1 11 h;we to ie11119r threF. GA'.., for •Jdf'llzers. .~,., i/or 1Jea People tor ow loun t .r photoqr .ipn of three •oo nc:~te!-. houo;;e $150 00 per noflth III"')Ciu 1es re11t 'lEE') 1 \1SU STLJ')E'JT TICI(ET. CALL 'v11Chlqan State.Two GA's ani or,e stu PuOIICtty/Pro notiO'l Jept. \1ore t'lfo. cc-~11 
1ow11 tw tne ,,,l(e 1,t<;f thur, 1a'l '1tqht call 1111 uttlttle") 'Jo11 -. nokers p1eac;9, Call I 'lED 2 USC TiX. W/TRA')E 2 \1SU CL!IIRE 6626 le11t wou,1 r.e f1ne Cnlt E i at 277 Ton >6842 :.tv• 1,,t 8196 to c1a, , 291 9644 .<fie• 5 00 p. n. GA'S FOR 2 USC TIX. CALL 284 5532. 7415.Ti1aoKs. HELP! I 'lEE') 1 GA FOR AICH. ST 
JU'IIORS JU'IIORS JU'IIORS io 
t~rec;te 1 1r1 poo:.1h011 ol ch;,urperc;ofl to'
'<IISSIIoiG YOUR \IAiolloiERS? WiiiCh The 'lee I 3 6 'ASU vs ·n fl1 twkets. C"ll WILL PAY BIG BUCI(S. '<ATHY .3429 'lEE') 4 'ASU G.A.',_ Wll L PAY BIG 
Observer! 616)699 7272 or 1lay) 1(0RBUl Y/ BUCI(S! CALL I(EVI\1 at 8636 JU'IIOH PARE'HS WEEI(E\1')? Ap 'lEE') 4 OR '.40RE GA TIX FOR 'AICH
GRAF oH1ce 233 2119 piiCi'lllor'ls rivartabte flOW ,,.. Stu ieflt Ac 
Wil I PAY BIG $$ FOR 1 ASU TICI(ET. ttvlh£''-Oft11ce. Ttley nuo;t t'e returf'le 1 by
f-.E"WAR') Losl 'I') R1og 64 Blue 'tone ST. Will PAYTOP$$.CALL \AAUREE\1 
-O~t whtle nmn11g lfltO 'JtiiOr'l, ...tttl ,, r~r1g FOR SALE I 119e J 10 'JLS.U. t1ckets Pr1ce 110 ohject! 264 5180. CAll ')!1\I'JY 277 5263. Wei "epl.14. "O• I(E\1 t601 Call ')ouq at 288 9059 .j-~e J1 \isu T-1~ket Call Janet at 284 :a rur1q to o;ee f1rst" '), ga ne. 1
Re1<11111e ... ATTE'ITIO'I O'ABU')S'.4A'I the sou•ce Hetp! She· , qone na 1! I.Ay poor roo nrtte, 60 '.4ERCURY CAPRI While, blue 1nt. '>10'JEY FOR YOU. ioeel 'ASU STU 4261. oeei 3 ·-.1.S.U. ticket'. C"" John ol 3167 of ~~~ ca npus 1s hav11"1g Clf'l orgaf'ltZ,1tiO'lr1 
Shrtrol'la 'J1'11Cola, hds lOst her lovely, dUto 4 cyl, A'A/F'v1 r.;tereo casgette. ')E'ITS OR GAs. TO\A 277 4283. neet1oq AO'I')AY Sept. 12 at 7p n 1n ba~1c black, f'lO fntls, ptastlc suf'lqlas~es CO"l'i.Oie a111 nore. $4,700 or best offer WA'ITE') TWO \1SU TIX. PLEASE 
')e,perately nee I Peno Sidle ga ne lick LaFortu11e Roo n 2 ')All are wetco ne to 
ets. Call Bnan at 8795. ,1ttenJ.

that he~ve a Sliver colore i ch.url dttache i 233 9570 afler 6 'lEE') THREE GA TIX FOR \AICHIGA\1 CALl R0\1 AT 3360 
to the n dO J she Just cao'l go on Without .......,... ST. GA \AE, CALL CHRIS AT 234 7033 the nl 1 I guess she send 11ke I the n) II you FOR SALE: STEREO SYSTE\1: NAO 'JEE') 3 \ASU GAS OR STU TIX. 'lee I 3 stu 1, 1 GA '.4SU '". Please call 0\ABU')S\AA\1 the 'ource ol illl ca npus l1ol these rather base 1ook1ng chedp STEREO RECEIVER, NAD TURN­'lEE') TWO \AICHIGA'I STATE TICI( PLEASE CALL BILL AT 277 4273 Joe 6257 t'lfor nattO'l retur11s to the \1') ca npus on lh1ngs, PLEASE call her 1 4432) an 11e1 her TABLE, AR SPEAKERS AND STEREO ETS! WILL PO. Y OR TRA')E TICI(ETS. WeJoeslav Sept 14 at 11a n There w•" know I Th•nks alotl k n CABINET. CALL Jl.. OR ANN ANY CALL LAURA AT 2854. CA'I'T WAIT TO HELPI 'lee i 3 GA's for IA1Ch1gan State 
HELP! 'lEE') 2 GA TIXS FOR \11CH be a 11ew took at OBU'J th1s yedr, al'l 1 we STATE. CALL '.411(E AT 1475. are ar1>dous to help you. Our f'lU nbers LOST Snail, green. sp11al e1ge1 5 re nain the sa ne 239 6283 an 1 239 7 799 
EVEioiiNG BUT PLEASE loiOT AFTER 10 HERE FRO\A YOU I Ga nel Call Jay Sullivan at 1396. Will ta1k 
p ... 272-5568. about$.
0 

HAVE A'IY EXTRA GA'S FOR \AICHI to a'lswer a'ly questto'ls you nay have
subject notebook, so newhere '" \Aath 'lee I 2 \Aich St GA's. Call Ralph 11 05 
GA'I STATE? ROTCtE IS Willi'IG TO Of'l ca npus happerullgs.

bull1mg. II foun 1 please call Jess at 234· FOR SALE 'lEW 13" SYLVA'IIACOLOR HELPI I neel 3 'lavy G.A.'s. Will pay 
7033, eh? T V'S. 4 LEFT. 277 6560 AT 17911 ST. HELPII goo1 noney.Cai1Tonat1423. OFFER HIS VIRTUE FOR 1.2.3,0R 4 R'). 23 JUST EAST OF CA \A PUS. $225 I nee I 4 GA's to ANY hone ga ne. If you TIC'<ETS. CALL X 1627 A\1') \AAI(E A Be I an 1Breaklast lootball weeken Is for 
PROPOSITI0\1. 'I') parents. Two 12) night nioi nu n. 1 0 
EA. can help, call l(ev•n at 283-3121 or 23._ \Ay no n Will kill ne if I ion't get an \ASU nins. fro n ca npus. 272 5640.
5303. gen. a 1 n. ticket. Please save nv life an 1 
Un1erwoo1/0IIven. typewriter, 1976 but sell ne one. Call Pete at 8317 or 8316. I OSTATE GA\AE. CALL SCOTT AT 1219. 
FOR RENT 

Hu npy the Calli!! Hu npy the Cat!/!/
has only 2 years use,$80.00 277 2543 thaok a~ 1 no n thanks you. 
'Jee 14 IASU fix or 2 pair -'<arl1596 'lEE') USC TIX WILL TRA ')E 2 \ASU GA Hu npy the Cat!Ill Portable TV B/W, goo 1 coo lit10n $30 WA'ITE') So. Cal. tx. Call Ji n collect OR PAY BIG$ CALL ROB1193 FUR'IISHE') TO 277 2543 PLEASE HELPI I nee1 2 GA tiCkets for 703·456 6606. '<eep trying. ATW Youre the TOUCH')OW\1 in nv USC. Call Ja nes at 6964. 2 GA tix to \Aich. St.. 30 y1. li~e. Call607 Ga ne of llleiHappy B ')ay..... Love vour 
I HAVE 4 ..SU AND 2 PrrT TICKETS, 798 7692 ask for Sue or 607·646 6666, 'I') gal FOR RE"lT C0\4PLETELY FUR-HELPIII BUT I NEED USC INSTEAD. LErS ask for Barry. 'IISHE') APARTIAE'IT This Is nyparems Wrst trip outofWest Vir­TALK. CALL JERRY AT x1783 AFTER Are vou intereste I in tutonng a South BE')ROQ\A,LIVI'IG ginia an 1 they wam to see what a real 8. Ben 1 chill? II so join the 'IEIGHBOR
I TICKETS

ROO\A,BATHR00\4,1(1TCHE'I 2 BIG football ga ne Is like. Help ne out wilh a HOO') STU')Y HELP PROGRAIA. CLOSETS CALL JOE LACOPO 731 ..ICHIGAN STATE GA. Call Scotty at 'lee I 4 \ASU GAs; Pat1238 Tral"'sportatiol'l is provt1e 1 a'l1 spec1a1 ')IAIAO"l') AVE. 233 2203 12!9. events are planne1. S1gn up '" \j') ao 1 
TICI(ETS 'IEE')E') FOR USC IAUST 

SlAC lining halls TO')AY at lunch an I Wanna nake a BIRTH'JAY GIRL happy? 
PERSONALS
HAVE·· -CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 

'lEE') 'JESPERATELY 4 \ISU TICI(ETS. Ian ')ESPERATE for one \ASU slu1ent 1i'lf'l&r. WILL PAYS$$. CALL CHRIS OR BOB AT I 'lEE') 3 \11CH. ST. GA's. WILL PAY or GA ticket. For TOP SS Call FIFI 'lo.
'lEE') 2 '<lich 51 GAs. Will tra 1e 2 Penn 51 

6871. WELL CALL RA~'JY AT 8700. 12711\A\AEC>fATEL Yf! Happy B1rthlay \AG!I Lorrie, Loraine,
GAs. Calf 'Aartha 7915. 

RICH UNCLE WANTS TICKET$ TO UIC Sua, \Aarti, \4o. F;~·;··t;;·;·~·~~·ft;·r··;m:·e:·;;;·~·~:·Ph~ Pay BIG BUCI(S lor 8 '<ISU Ga's. Call Pat HELP! I 1espertely nee! a GA lor \4ich. GA..E. CALL x1783 ANYTIW AFTER I ................................................................ 272-0261. at277-7595 St. Will pay big SS$11Call284-5119. 
'lee 1 'Aichigan 51 Tix. Call 1695 SIG\1 UP FOR 'ISHP TO')AYI 


The Observer Monday, September 12, 198~ -page 9 

College Football roundup 
NFL Standings
Penn State drops second straight 
~ATIOl'IAL FOOTBALL LI!AGUJ! CE'ITRAL "'ATIO"'AL CO~RE"'CE Cleveland 1 I 0 .500 52 53 
(AP) -College football's first full Georgia were not scheduled. period, Bodine threw an 11-yard 
weekend produced few surprises -In the Second Ten, 11th-ranked touchdown pass to Bill Booze after 
EAST Pittsburgh I I 0 .500 35 35 

except for Penn State's 14-3 loss to Arizona walloped Utah 38-0, "'l'o. 15 Baugh fu nbled on a punt return. 
... L T Pet. PF PA.Cincinnati 0 2 0 .000 16 30 )alias 2 0 01.000 65 4"1Houston 0 2 0 .000 44 61
Cincinnati -but there was lots of Southern \fethodist held off Gran­Baugh funbled following a 27-yard 
'lYGianLo; I I 0 .500 22 29 
nostalgia. bling 20-13, "'l'o. 16 Iowa blitzed return of the kickoff, and less than 
>hiladelphia I I 0 .500 35 40 44 WEST
"'ashington I I 0 .500 53
After a no nent of silence and an Iowa State 51-10, "'o. 17 \faryland two ninutes later, Cincinnati scored 
Dcnvcr 2 0 01.000 31 20

St.Louis 0 2 0 .000 34 61 
LA Raider~ 2 0 01.000 40 16 Kansa.~City I 0 01.000 p 13 

invocation in ne nory of the legen­defeated Vanderbilt 21-17, and "'o. on Don Good nan's 8-yard run. 
dary Bear Bryant, 14th-ranked 19 Washington breezed over 
\fike Rozier scored four touch­
Seattle 1 I 0 .500 30 2' 
cr.~···HAL

Alaha na, under Ray Perkins for the "'lorthwestern 34-0: 
San Diego 0 I 0 .000 29 41

downs and carried 19 ti nes for 191 
Chicago I I 0 .500 34 3L
first tine, scored at 1:35 and went Alaba na recovered a fu nble at 
yards against Wyo ning to set a 
Dc:troit I I 0 .500 .P 31 
(ir~~n Hay I I 0 .500 62 63
on to defeat Georgia Tech 20-7. the Georgia Tech 20-yard line on the 
'lebraska career rushing record of 
\1inntsota 1 1 0 .500 44 69
"I felt the sane way I felt on the ga ne's third play, and three plays 
2,894 yards as the Cornhuskers ex­
Ta npa Bay 0 0 .000 10 28 Yesterday's Results 
bus coning here Friday night," later, Walter Lewis whipped a 15­
Dallas :\4, St. Louis 1., 

tended the nation's longest winning 
Pittshurgh 2,, Green Bay 21
WEST

Perkins said •· · .ts in HIS seat. I felt yard touchdown pass to joe Carter streak to 12 ga nes. 
LARa n.s 2 0 01.000 46 3_;1 Chicago 17. T<l npa Ba)' 10 
like I was walking on HIS field. I to get Perkins and the Cri nson Tide 
Atlanta I I 0 .500 .B 33 Washington 23, Philadelphia 13
Oklaho na's \farcus Dupree 
· '\lew Orleans I I 0 .500 55 47
wanted to win this ga ne nore than rolling. 
rushed for 138 yards and backup 
San Francisco I I 0 .500 65 39
any I've ever been associated with." Walk-on fresh nan Van Tiffin 
tailback Earl johnson scored on runs 
Buffalo 10, Cincinnati 6

\feanwhile, "'l'o. 5 "'l'otre Dane got kicked two field goals, while Stan 
of 16 and 33 yards as the Sooners 
Cleveland 31, Detroit 26 

four touchdowns fro n Greg Bell, Gay returned a blocked punt 32 
'fYGiants t6,Atlanta 13,0T Seattle I', W jets 10 

A\II!RICA'ICO~RI!'IC£
downed Stanford. 
EAST

two scoring passes fro n Blair Kiel, yards for Alaba na's other touch­
Lionelja nes rushed for 172 yards, 
PF PA LA Raidcr.s 20, Hou.'>ton 6 
'WLTPct.

and forced seven Purdue turnovers down. 
46 24 LA Ra ns 5o. "'Jew Orkans 2...

\1iani 2 0 01.000
including an 8-yard touchdown, and 
~9 40 ·\fia nl 34. 'I~ England 24

in thrashing the Boiler nakers 52-( In handing Purdue its worst loss in 
Balti nore I I 0 .50U
Bo jackson scored twice, leading 
10 18 Denver I ..., Ralti norc 10

U~;ffalo 1 1 0 .500
Penn State's e nbarrass r :::nt by 13 years, 'lotre Dane got offquickly 
I () .500 51 46 Today's Ga ues'lYJcts

Auburn past Southern \fississippi. 
'lew Enf.!l.tn'J 0 1 0 .000 4-6.<\ ~an OicJ!O at Kan'a~ City
Cincinnati gave joe Paterno an 0-2 when nell caught a 9-yard touch­
With quarterback Steve S nith
rn:od for the first trne in his 1H ·.lown pass fro n Kiel on the lri~h's 
sidelined, \fichigan's Dave Hall
seasons as coach ofthe 'littany Lion~ fir~t possession and scored on a 1­~
filled in and pas~ed 6 yards to Eddie .. .-... ·. .. . .. . -......... .
anJ left hi n so ~peechle~~ that he yard run later in the opening period. 
Garrett for a firsfperiod touchdown
failed to appear for his custo nary Bell also had touchdown runs of 2 
and ran 4 yards at the 6:10 nark of
post·ga ne radio interview. and 5 yards, while alternate tailback the final quarter, lifting the heavily
The only other ne nher ofThe As­Allen Pinkett rushed for 115 yards 
1983 faD festival 

favored Wolverines over Washing­
sociated Press Top Twenty to lose on 1 5 carries. 
ton State. 

Organizational Meeting
over the weekend was "'l'o. 1:\ LSU, Cincinnati's Troy Bodine co n­which blew a 14-0 first-quarter lead pleted 25 of 36 passes for 261 yards Ohio State's \fike To nczak con­and bowed to 'lo. 12 Florida State against Penn State and took ad­pleted 21 of 25 passes for a 40-35. \feanwhile, ninth-ranked vantage oftwo fu nbles by the Lions' career-high 276 yards and four Southern California and "'l'o. 18 Kevin Baugh. Early in the second touchdowns Florida played to a 19-19 tie. The ga ne narked Ted Toliner's 'lebut as Southern Cal coach. 
ln other ga nes, top-rated 


Tonight Sept. 12 'lehraska poun'.\e1 Wyo ning 56-20, 
at 6:30PM runner-up Oklaho na heat Stanfor·J 
in Lafortune's

21-14, 'lo. 4 Auburn downed South­ern \fississippi 24-3, sixth-ranked 
Little Th~atre \fichigan edged Washington State 
11.11....\1111 IIIIIICI 
20-17, 'lo. 7 Ohio State tri n ned Oregon 31-6, and 'lo. 8 'lorth 
._T Til. IIIIITI. 

... . ... . . . . . .. . . .. .--.---. . . .--. . . .. . 
Carolina beat \fe nphis State 24-10. Third-ranked Texas and 'lo. 10 
ruesdov, Sep~ember 13 6:3Q-8:QQpm Meet the museum staff 


TEXAS INSTRUMENTS (f 
& hove dessert WI ~h us 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
General Meeting 
Notre Dame 

Monday, Sept. 12 
COMPACT COMPUTER 40 
Debate and Speech Council
34K by1es ol ROM: 6K by1es ol RAM. Constant Memory Fea­ture, Convement plug-in applications soltware: Enhanced 
7:00PM 

BASIC prOQramrmng language: Easy-to-use lypewriter-style (QWERTY) keyboard: Battery-powered: 31 character LCD d4s­
in the Engineering Auditorium
play. Peopheral inte~ace connection Big discounts on ooftware and accesaortea too. 
-compete in debate and individual 
HEWLETT·PACKARD 
speech events

LCD PROBLEM SOLVERS HP-10C Scientific . . . . . . . . $54 HP-11C Scientific .. .. . . ... 70 HP-15C Scientific .. .. .. . .. . .. 90 
~---~---------------------···-------,
-travel to othercolleges
HP-12C Financial . . 90 
HP-16C PrograiJIT1el' . . . 90 
PRE-CANA PROGRAMS
0rgab::;r.atlonalMeeting

HP-97 Desktop Scientific . . . . . 560 
Marriage Preparation Is a dlocetan requirement HP-41C $145 

across the country HP-41CV 200 
Toni11ht, 7:80p.m. 

Dptrcal wand 95 
411 Admin. Bldg.

card Reader t4S 
• 

Prrn!er (82143A) 283 Quad RA.M. {to< HP41C) 60 
or call Brother John Doran at 
HP-!l ACaSSOli!S 
Ext. Mll!T<M'Y Moou~ 60 
239-5790 
Ext. Funct100 Module . 60 Trme ModUle 60 HP-IL loOP Module 95 01Qrtal Cassette Dnve 335 Printer/Piotte<(HP-IL) 335 
~~------------------~~-------,
WHILE LIMITED QUANTITIES LAST 
WHO: URADOA-TE 1 
50-60' ooff orrg mfr suggested prrces HP-32E ScrentriJC 32 50 WOJVI-eN HP·34C Screntrlrc • 5000 
' I 

HP-37E Fmanc1al · 32 50 SUPPOR·T· I
WHA-T~ 


I
GROUP 
f 

WHEN: MONDAYS, l
I.IVI 71'" OfF tilT OM 
I'C-1211 MINI-COMMII 
BASIC language, t424 step program capac­

BEGINNING SEP·T. 12 
Ity With 26 w.ermne~ and 24 digrt display 

I

6:15-8 pm
OIIGIMill~T PIKE 11611 ELEK-TEl WI. 

September 
. ~~· 
I

WHERE: WILSON : february 
or-I

COMMONS I 
I

7:30p.m.
I Cana CWe.ekendt Badin Hall Chapel
h •.UV. .~;XL. I . SUSAN p'5TEIBE I I
Nov.11-12, Feb.3-4

( • -\.:uN .11. J\\:1 ~ I 
I 
Mar. 2·3, Mar. 30·31

I JANE PI·TZ Couns. & Psych. Ser. I I 
I 

;ign up
1 Grad. ·Townhouses Center I at: ' I
.:()rnOUJ miniJtry -Bodin Office I (239-5368) (239-7336) I I 239-5242 
~-••••w•••••••--••---~--·A
L------------------------------I 

The Observer Monday, September 12, 1983-page 10 

• • . Purdue 
S nith. The drive was set up by tackle A Tin \1arshall fu nble recovery

continuedfrompage 12 
Greg Oingens' interception of a 

set up 'llotre Dane's sixth touch­sea nper by tailback Allen Pinkett Ca npbell pass. 
down. The six-play, 39-yard drive through a nassive hole opened up The final first-half tally cane on a 
was capped up by Bell's five-yardby Shiner and guard Ti u Scannell. 17-yard K.iel pass to tight end \1ark touchdown run in which he so ne­One play later, Greg Bell, Pinkett's Bavaro in the end zone with 33 
how nanaged to weave throughreplace nent, caught a pass in the flat seconds left. It was Bavaro's first 
four Boiler naker defenders. fro n Blair K.iel, nade a sharp cut at ever 'llotre Oa ne reception. 
The final "lotre Oa ne touchdown the five-yard line, leaving a Boiler­
Cfl ne on a three-yard run by fresh­naker defender grasping air, and Seplernber 'a Ga-ne 
nan Byron Abraha n which con­scooted into the end zone for a nine­
"Jotre !Jane 17 14 14 7 -52 Pur1ue 0 0 0 6 -6 

cluded a seven-play, 80-yard drive. 
yard score. It was the first of four 

Scoring Fellow fresh nan tailback Hiawatha 
touchdowns for the junior Bell, 'liD-Bell 9 pass fro n l(iel !Johnston kock) 
Francisco picked up 33 yards on one
'II[) -Bell1 run (Johnston kick) 
who, after gaining 95 yards in 20 

'II[)-FG Johnston 31 run while Groo ns picked up 25 carries last year against \1ichigan, 'II[)-Bell2 run !Johnston kick) 
yards on a bootleg. It was on this
'liD-Bavaro 17 pass fro n l(iel (Johnston kick) 
had to sit out the rest of the season 

'II[)-Pinkett 1 run !Johnston kick) play that Groo ns fractured his col­because of an ankle injury suffered 'II[)-Bell 5 run !Johnston kick) 
larbone. against Purdue the next week. 
'II[)-Abraha n 3 run (Johnston kick) 
PUR-Brunner 18 pass Iron Everett ikock faile1) 

Purdue avoided the shutout when "I wanted to redee n nyselt;" said 
ND Pur crowd favorite Ji n Everett narched Bell, who gave high narks to the of­First 1owns 21 21 
the Boiler nakers 70 yards in 11­
Rushing aile npts 57 40
fensive line for helping nake it pos­

"'et Yar1s Rushing 339 146 plays. It was a long day for Ca npbellsible. "'ei Yar1s Passing 183 272 
as he co npleted only seven ofhis 18 
Passes co np-atte npte1 10·19 19·39
Bell also scored "lotre Da ne's 

Ha1 intercepte1 0 4 tosses for 89 yards and three inter­second touchdown in the first quar­Total "'et Yar 1s 522 418 
ceptions.
Fu nbles-lost 0·0 5·3
ter on a two-yard dive, capping a 

"You have to give credit to the seven-play, 41-yard drive. K.iel's 
Penalties-yar :is 9·73 8·68 

Punts-average 6-38 4-38 defensive line and linebackers for clutch 18-yard pass to \1ike Favorite Individual Leader• 
the way they put the pressure on the
RUSHI'IIG -'llotre ')a ne Pinkett 15-115; Fran­
on a third-and-eight situation was 

CISCO 9-81; Bell 11-45; Groo ns 2-33; S nrth 5-29; quarterback," said free safety Chris the key play of the drive. Pur1ue Hawthorne 11·44; Gray 12·38; l(ing 4·24; 
Brown, who co nbined with Pat
Jor1an 4-17; 
A 31-yard field goal by \1ike 

PASSI'IIG-'llotre ')a ne l(iel9-14-0,166; Bauer­Ballage for two interceptions.Johnston ended the first quarter lein 1·3·0,17; Groans 0-2-0,0; Pur1ue Everett 12­
"We set a goal of scoring 40 or 
21·1.183; Ca npbell7-18-3,89; 
scoring. 

nore points in this ga ne," said
RECEIVI'IIG -"'otre ')a ne Jackson 2-67;
The turning point of the ga ne, if 

Favorite 2·35; Howar1 2-32; P1nkett 2-23; Bavaro 1-Pinkett. "It was like an unattainable there is such a thing in a 46-point 17: Bell1·9: Pur1ue Price 4·61; Scott 4·56; Gray 4· 
goal and I •Jidn't drea n that we'•J
51; Brunner 2-26; Benson 2-10; Hawthorne 1-42; 
rout, nay have cone in Purdue's 

AUen1aoce-69,782 reach it, but you set high goals so first possesion in the second quarter. 
that you will strive to reach then." Scott Ca npbell drove the Boiler­Linebacker Tony Furjanic set.up the If the Irish can keep i nprovingnakers 65 yards in II plays to the drive with a spectacular diving inter­like Faust wants the n too, no goal
~fartina Vavratilova, right, is con!(ratu/ate-1 bv Chris Evert after 

"'lotre Dane 15-yard line. Like last ception of a Ca npbell pass at the this
nay be out of reach for the n year, it looked like Ca npbell would '\lotre Dane 48-yard line. year. 
Vavrati/ova ·testrove·l her in the finals of the US. Open Tennis 
Cha npionsbips. ]i n nv Connors 1efeate-l Ivan Len 1/ to take the 

be able to rally hb troops before K.iel, who co npleted 9-of-14
nen's title. 


halfti ne. But on a fourth and inches passes for 166 yards and two touch­situation, the defensive line stuffed downs, ~bowed that co nplacency 
Ca npbell's quarterback-sneak at­with a ~ 1-0 lead would not be '\lotre 
Game Two: 
te npt, and, with that, Purdue's only Dane's style this year as he launched
r······· 

Michigan State 
no nentu n ofthe ga ne. a 61-yard rainbow to flanker \1ilt With 1:42 left in the half, Bell Jackson on the fourth play of the 
at home 

scored his third touchdown on a second half. Pinkett, who led all rus­
two-yard sweep. The 52-yard, seven hers with 115 yards in 15 carries 
play drive featured an 18-yard burst dove over fro n the one on the next
Attention: Juniors and Seniors : 

up the niddle by fullback Chris play. 
: • • • Faces 
The University at Buffalo will be on • tion offa tip by Kovaleski. ·najor role in a good pass rush that
continuedfrompage 12 

"We're coning together real forced Ca npbell to hurry his passes

+campus to talk to students interested + 

Sopho nore ·Jetensive back Pat well," Uallage said. "We're starting early in the ga ne and ·nade it a very
+in all graduate and professional : Ballage was one of the n. \iost to know what everyone is doing on forgettable •Jay for the unfairly­people re ne nber Ballagc as the kick defense." naligne:l quarterback.
+programs including law, dentistry + 

returner who accidently downed a There nay not have been as nany
What two nore new starters,

i 
and others on Friday, September 16, + kickoff on the one against Pent: \1ike Golic and Greg Oingens, were new faces on offense as there were State, hut it will not be long before on defense, but two of the newestdoing on defense was naking life dif­
from 10am-3pm at the Placement + that incident is forgotten. playe~i a big part in the offen~e.
ficult for Ca npbell and his replace­Ballage had been warned all week Tin Scannell, a sopho nore who is
nent,Ji n Everett.+Office. : long that he was going to be a target taking over at left guad for \1ike
Dingens, naking his first start at

of Scott Ca npbell's passing -and Kelley who has nove-J to center, let
contain tackle, and Golic, holding

'le was ready. his presence he lclt early as he and
down the end spot after filling in for

"I was anticipating that they'd be \1ike Shiner took out the Pudue line
Kevin Griffith last year, tea ned up

coning at ne," said Ballage, "but I on the first offensive series of the
,•..................• 
for two hlrnovers. Dingens sacked

wasn't scared. Players like Kovalesk 
ga ne. Allen Pinkett walke-J through and nyself are anxio!.l~ to do real the canyon they ha:I create-J for 3 5 well." yards. 
There was not as nu<.:h action his In all, Irish hacks rushe·J for 3~9 way as was expecte·J, but he was yards, a testa nent to the effective­able to co ne up with an intercep-ness of their blockers. 
Then there was \1ark Bavaro, the heir apparent to Tony Hunter at tight end. While he did not nake the 
nu nber ofcatches that Hunter use·J
Football Concession Stand
:·~~~ P,<~ 

to nake, he ·Jid one thing Hunter 
could not do at all last year-catch a touchdown pass. 
Winners!!!!
f -.2 pizzas lor the prl~a of one~ ' So, obviously, things look bri~t Buy any sae uplzza light" at the regular price and Please pick up your packets at Student for the future. If the new guad con­receive the Identical pizza Frwel No other coupons I tinues to i nprove like it shoul1,
:::: Activities Offlce by Tuesday, Sept. 13. :::
with this offer. Free delivery doea not apply. there will not be any weaknesses for the opponents to exploit. 
Jf-We are looking for 11
t~,,,,,:::::::,~::::=~~~:::::::::: 
,,!!! 

~ 
Secrembsr 1;t  _  
Dame• p 934) USA-Warner t::Jros  
01rected by Ray Ennght B1W, 90 mrn  
The basic prem1se of th1s backstage mus•callS that l~e aud•enr:e comes .  '\,)  
....  to-.sJcals to watch the pretty g~rls Thus l:1l.n_lslt.sr.t~ II'I"J1 :~ at~J 1\..,o:  "co ..:'  ~ .l  
long 0'1 extravagant I'!IUSICBI numbers. such~-fht!'tirnurM'r a'ft!"'l  
Only Have Eyes lor You' WitA Joan Blondell. Drck Powell. Auby  
Keeler.  

Admission

lAnnenberg Aud.•,SniteMuseum 
$ 2. 00 .,;j 

TU~If3ti·l[' 
'·I . C ·~ ~ \. . . ~ ­
. .., •.... .. -.. ' "' •. •. •.. ·-·. ~ .. ~ ... ~ .. ' 
: a year's worth of Jf-men for a MEN OF ~ : N.D. CALENDAR.+
* 

Ifyou are one of ·: these 12 or know one* ofthese 12, please  +! +  
:. submit a picture, * name, campus  ~ -tr  
:  address, and phone  :  

:tt number to Room 203 -tr! Walsh Hall by Friday~ : September 16, 1983: 
'**************** 
'·.. " . ' ' ' .. \ . \ 'I 

~ 
! 
'JI['4(Jt~C3l~--------------------------------------·M--o•n•d•ay•,•S•e•p•te.m
..b•e•r•1•2•,•19•8•3•....P.a.ge---11 
Bloom County
,.....__...;;......_____, 

5rrvt DAUAS 

~I 

rf:'S1H6 
R£fEAA£17

IS GOIN610 
DR. FOOiUCK 
HIMIO

1H€. PE.N'Tl~T. 
W/11i 1Hf.~N$ 

1UPAY. SO 1 
Cf' HL/fl'iJIZ. ~ Y£5 
Fate 


Berke Breathed 

Photius 

'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIH'-~ 
Tom Wrobel 
Campus 
•12:15 p.m. -Dedication Conce t, of H 
College Center, St. Mary's Music Department, Par· or ofHaggar Co lege Center 
•3 
p.m.-Compute Minicourse, Essential TSO, 115 Computing Center 

•6: 
15 p.m. -Meeting, of the Graduate Women Support Group, Wilson Commons, Sponsored by Counseling and Psychological Services 

•6:.~0 
p.m. -Notre Dame College Republicans Meeting, 104 O'Shaughnessy 

•7 
p.m. -Placement Night for all Arts and Let­ters, Graduating Students, CCE Auditorium, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Hiroshima, Mon Amour,.. Annenberg Auditorium 

•
7 p.m. -Pre Law Society Meeting, Engineering Auditorium 

•9 
p.m.-Monday Night Film Series, "Dames." Annenberg Auditorium 


Far Side . 
THE FAR SIDE By GARY lARSON 

N.D. 
v•. Mlamlll 

N.D. 
Club of Ft. Lauderdale Is sponsoring: $39 doubles at Sheraton Yankee Trader Hotel on the beach 


in Ft. !.auderdale. $10 bus from Ft. Lauderdale to game & back early Sun. morning A pep rally Friday, tailgater Sat & Mass at hotel Sunday 
Call Greg Moore (305) 566-4732 for reservations or Student ·Union 239-7757 for details. 
Spike's World 

© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. it121BJ Jl!;;;;;;=;;;;;;;~~;;;~;;J All Rights Reserved 9112113 60 Bevel out 25 A Cantrell 61 Lessen 26 Good·bye 62 Yemeni 27 Yellow 63 Flu shots pigment 64 Speed-trap 28 Della of 
device sonq 65 Depression 
DOWN 1 Legion· nairas 2 Locale of Diamond 
rie;~d 
. 3 Words of understand· ing 
4 -· Rosen· kavalier" 5 Skylin'3 sights 6 Opposite 
in nature 7 Upswing 8 Cobra 9 -Aviv 

10 Glossy 50 Quaker fabric pronoun 11 Recorded 51 Perform a 
proceedings pesade 12 Flintstone 52 African 13 Sphte· village 
tingling 53 Take on 18 As busy as-54 Pearl Buck 19 One with heroine 
pressing 55 Liability duties 57 Concha 23 Chef's 58 Bedouin creation garment 24 Pours out 59 "In" thing 
·---------------------,I 
Student Union 
I

I PRINTING SERVICE •• 
1 New-Replacing Campus Press 1 Bring Camera-ready poster art I 
1

1 to 5.U. Record Stare ! for your posters and table tents 11 
ACROSS 1 Invalid 5 Dieting 
Jack 10 Yegg's target 14 Mitigate ~.....,.,,......,.=-T:"::"-. 15 Aplomb 16 Land parcel 1-,.,.--1---t--+--1 i17 Abe Lincoln 
-+--+-+--i 20 Prosecute 

The Daily Crossword 
21 Scott1sh 
hillside 22 All sat 23 Whitetai; 24 lee shee: 26 Stand· 
patters r29 looked aheaa -+--+---1 32 Elite ot the deck 

33 Riverto 
the Rhone 34 Operculum 36 Alfred E. 
Smitn 40 Loser 
toDDE 41 Great cere 42 Icelandic 
tale 43 Letu.J 45 Cash 47 Kniqht and 
KenneJi 48 Flv aIons 49 Narro'<'< 
groove 52 Fused line 53 Coal 
scuttle 56 John Barrymore 
a-n.... 

----------------------· 


Sports Faust gets tougher as Irish destroy Purdue 
By LOUIE SO\IOGYI 
\ports Writer 
WEST I.AFYETTE, Ind. -It was a changed <1erry Faust that greeted the press after Saturday's 52-6 drub­bing of old ne nesis Purdue, a ga ne which was one of the greatest dis­plays ofall-around football in Faust's coaching regi ne. After last year's opening ga ne win over \fichigan ­a contest not decide•J until the final 
ninutes of the ga ne -Faust's post­ga ne interview inclu•Jed such state­
nents as, "Oh :Jidn't our young nen play fantastically," and, "I don't think we coui·J have done anything better than we did tonight." 
Faust was not as co npli nentary of his tea n this ti ne around despite the ncar shutout and 522 yards ofto­tal offense against a Purdue tea n that, after the ga ne, he called "a goo:J tea n." 
The killer instinct philosophy which Faust stressed so nuch to his players last spring and this fall was also evi·Jent in Faust during the post­ga ne press conference. 
"It was a good victory, but we 
na:Je a lot of nistakes and have to get ourselves in better shape," said Faust. "We've got to do better than that. We were just fortunate with the breaks (seven Purdue turnovers)." 
Faust then listed the three :Jreaded ele nents that the tea n 
nust avoid the rest of the year in or­-Jer to be the best it can be -in­juries, overconfidence, and co nplacency resulting In a lack of i nprove nent. 
Injury, unfortunately, is not as 
By \liKE SULLIVAN 
Sports E11tor 
When the 1983 "lotre Oa ne foot ball tea n took the field on Saturday, there were nany fa niliar faces nis­sing. Hunter, Zavagnin, Clasby, Duerson, Griffith, and Larkin were just so ne of the players who were not in the starting lineup against the usually-tough Boiler nakers. 
In their stead were na nes like easy to avoid as the other two. In what was the lone sad news for the Irish on Satuday, second-string quarterback Scott Groo ns fractured his right collarbone and will be out of action for several weeks. Of· fensive tackle \1ike Shiner also suf­fered a knee injury, but is expected to be in better shape later in the week. 
On this :Jay, though, it was Purdue 
that suffere:J al nost all the pain. 
"It was just a total shock," said Purdue Head Coach Leon Burtnett. "Our whole staffcan't believe it. We really thought this tea n was ready to play. We covered everything with the tea n and they just didn't ex­ecute." 
It took Purdue five possessions and one quarter before registering its first first down without the ai:J of a penalty. By that ti ne "lotre Da ne was sitting on a 17-0 advantage. 
The tone of the ga ne was set in the opening possessions when the Irish offensivQ and defensive lines si nply do ninated the opposing 

• 
Monday, September 12, 1983-page 12 

Thr Ohscrft'r/Prtc l..acha 
GregBe/1-tivesoveracollapsetPurtuelinetoscore ·score four touch-towns ant the Irish te nolishe1 the secont touch-town of the ga ne for Votre 'Jane Purtue, 52-6, on Satur-lay. See the story to the left. an-t thesecon-ttouch-townforhi nself Bell wenton to 
Crush St. Francis 

Soccer team gets first win of year 
Boiler naker units. 
The 1o nination was perhaps best reflecte•J in terns of field position. Of the eight Purdue possessions in the first half; six of the n began at or inside its own 20-yad line. \feanwhile, "lotre Da ne began four ofits seven first halfpossesions at or beyond its own 48-yard line. 
It took "lotre Da ne less than two ninutes and seven plays to travel 57 yads in its opening possession. Highlighting the -Jrive was a 35-yar-:l 
see PURDUE, page 10 
ByJEFF BLU\IB 
Sports Writer 
It wasn't, by any stretch ofthe i n­agination, your ordinary soccer ga ne. That is, unless one considers 9-0 to be a nor nal soccer score. And the full house at Cartier Field Friday night saw a less than usual "lotre 
Meeting the challenge 

New faces fare surprisingly well 
that Larkin, Duerson, and co npany were back in "lotre Oa ne unifor ns. 
Fresh nan \fike Kovaleski, replac­ing the injured \fike Carkin, the player who was expected to lead the tea n in tackles this year, was the 
nost I npressive. 
"lot only 1id Kovaleski nake up for Larkin's absence by naklng a tea n-leading 10 tackles (Rick ~aylor also ha1 10), but he also tipped two passes, which resulted in one interception and another near· interception. 
"I nade so ne nistakes," said Kovaleski after his first college ga ne, "and I have a lot to work on, but I' n pretty well pleased." 
He was not the only one please:J 
fh(' Oh~~rvcr/Pctc Lache... 
with his perfor nance. Coach George Kelly, who coaches Kovaleski, was un-Jerstandably hap­py. Losing a player like Larkin can cause one to lose so ne sleep. 
"I told \fike he beca ne 21 in a hurry," said Kelly. "He's got lots of physical talent, but it's i nportant for hi n to nature extre nely rapi1ly." 
"He's a pretty cool kid," sai1 Ger­ry Faust. "He's a co npetitor. He had to cone through for us and he did." 
Kovaleski was not the only player that had to co·ne through for the Irish, however. Sopho nore \fiddle Linebacker Tony Furjanic has so·ne big shoes to fill also. His job is to pick up where Bob Crable and \fark Zavagnin left off. "lo easy task considering that Crable and Zavag­nin le1 the tea n in tackles over the last four years. 
But, like Kovaleski, he ca ne through when nee:Jed, collecting six tackles and naking a tre nen1ous Jiving interception that led to a touch:Jown. 
"It was real i nportant for the two of then to be successful," said Kelly of his young linebackers. "Both of the n have the ability, so it was no­thing I did with th<. n." 
Kelly does 1eserve nuch credit -Jespite what he says. Defensive coordinatorJi nJohnson also playe:l a najor role in their rapid growth, but perhaps the nost i nportant con­tribution was by the rest of the squad who were encouraging the new linebackers. 
"The kids were a great help," sai-:1 Kelly. "They encouraged the guy~ real hard and were always patting then on the back." 
While nost of the attention cen­tered around the play of Kovaleski and Furjanic, however, there were a nu nber of other players who were starting for the first tine. 

\fike Golie (55) ~ets rea tv to frop on a fu no/e cause·/ by Grex ')hl!(ells ( 92). Gn/ic un I 1Jitl!(ens were two of the relatively new ~ee FACES, page 10 faces that li Ia !(OO fjob in replacinfl the "ieparte 1starters. 
Dane win over St. Francis (Ind.). 
At the outset, this ga ne looked to be another one of those natch-ups where one tea n has nost of their players settle in for a ga ne-long con­versation with their own goalie, never really bothering to attack. 
It appeared that the Cougars ofSt. FrancL~ didn't really care ifthey ever scored, but only wanted to nake i~ through the ga ne alive. 
"We've seen this so nany tines," 

coaches agree to ·.to so. For :>O ne un­known reason, the St. Francis coach decided that he did not want to waive the li nitation, but rather have 
nuch of the "lotre Dane first-string play the entire ga ne. 
One ofthe reserves who ·.lid hap­pen to get into the ga ne, fresh nan Pat Szanto, went on to have the big­gest night ofany Irish player. Szanto, a forward out ofPoughkeepsie, "l.Y., notched the hat trick, three goals, in 
con nented Irish coach Rich Hun­ter, "where the other tea n will just take all oftheir guys and push the n way back. 
"We just told our guys to spread the ga ne out nore. We told the wings to play outside of the white lines. And as you saw, we had so ne beautiful crosses because ofthis." 
By ga ne's end, Hunter's strategy was working perfect. After working the nselves out to a 2-0 halfti ne lead on goals by \fark Bidinger and Steve Ryan, the Irish stor ned for seven second halfgoals. 
Eight ninutes into the second half, senior Ken Harkenrider tallied the first ofhis two goals, taking a Bill Beasley cross 25 yards out and driving a shot into the lower right corner. 
Less than a ninute later, St. Francis nounted their only real threat of the night when it appeared they had scored to bring the score to 3-1. That goal, however, was taken away a no nent later when it was deci:led by the referees that a Cougar player had bec.:n blatantly of­fside on the play. 
Junior Rich Herdegen ca ne back with a tap-in goal five ninutes later to start a "lotre Da ne scoring spree. 

the ga ne's final 13 1/2 ninutes. 
TODAY 

volleyball vs. St. Francis ?p.m. ACC Pit 
TOMORROW 
soccer vs. Valparaiso 4p.m. Alumni Field 
WEDNESDAY 
soccer vs. Bethel 
7:30 

Cartier Field 
Szanto's last goal, co ning on a 
Harkenrider and Beasley then tea ned up again to bring the Irish lead to 5·1. Beasley barely saved the ball fro n going over the end line, in the sane notion sending a nifty pass out front to ·Harkenrider, who pro nptly sla n ned it ho ne. 
Harkenrider then got the second of his two assists four ninutes later, dishing off to senior \fark l.uet­kehans, who drilled it in fro n the top right corner ofthe box. 
At this point, Hunter began freely substituting his players, giving a nu nber of the squad's younger 
ne nbers a chance to see so ne ac­tion. 
Hunter's only restraint in naking these substitutions was a standan.l li nitation of using 18 players in a ga ne. This li nitation, however, can be waived if hoth of the oooosing very long cross fro n junior Joe Howe that he rifle1 past a stunneJ Cougar keeper with the ball still in 

nid-air, was undoubtedly the ga ne's nost beautiful goal. Overall, Hunter was please-j with his tea n's perfor nance. 
"We ·Jid a pretty goo'.l job tonight," said the Irish coach. "When we pass and nove well like we 1id, we are a very goo·J tea n." 
"lotre Da ne outshot St. Francis 38-3 for the ga ne, and 22-0 in the second half. Irish goalie Carl Gebo was calle•J on to nake only two saves, both obviously in the first half, recoding his first shutout of the young season. 
The Irbh rccorJ now sta1l'Js at l· I with their nt'xt ga nc sche".!ulcJ for "' p. n. to norrow v~ Valparaiso at Alu nni l'icl-J. 
'. 

