
.By TIM VERCELLOTTI In September 1981 D'Antuono ship, as shown by significannt SeniorStaffReporter wrote to Konrad Schaum, chairman publication," or "meaningful con­of the Department of Modern and tribution to public service." 
A professor in Notre Dame's Classical Languages requesting con­The suit charges that the Univer­Department of Modern and Classical sideration for tenure and promo­sity has granted tenure "to male I -:nguages t1led suit against the Uni­tion. She was denied tenure in May faculty members younger" than versity earlier this week, alleging sex 1982. Her current contract expires D'Antuono, "who have had fewer and age discriminatio:t and breach at the end of this semester. publications, less adequtate teach­of contract in connection with her Accordinng to the suit, ing reviews or less service to the denial oftenure. D'Antuono went through the ap­professional community." 
Nancy D'Antuono, 51, tiled the peals procedure outlined in the The suit also alleges that tollowing lawsuit Monday in C.S. District Frese settlement, but to no avaiL D'Antuono's denial of tenure, "a Court, claiming violations of Title Meanwhile, last October. younger male was hired to assume VII of the 1964 Civil Rtghts Act, the D'Antuono filed a claim with the all or a portion" of D'Antuono's Age Discrimination in Employment Equal Employment Opportunity teaching responsibilities. Act of 1976 and the provisions ofthe Commission charging a~e and sex D'Antuono is the author of 1981 settlement ofa class action suit discrimination.lnJanauary 198:3 she numerous scholarly articles and brought against the University by received notice of right to sue. papers, the suit said, as well as a English Professor Dolores Frese and The University's Facul~y Hand­book. Bocaccio's 'Novelle' in the several female faculty members. book stipulates that candidates for Theatre of Lope De Vega. She 
The 1981 settlement requires the tenure must demonstrate received her doctorate in Romance University to "make a good faith ef­"outstanding teaching ability" and Languages and Literatuure from the fort to renew, promote and tenure "notable achievement in scholar-University of Michigan in 1975. female faculty members at the same rates as male faculty." D'Antuono's suit charges that the University "failed to follow the provisions of 
Copy center abreast 
the settlement." In the lawsuit D'Antuono, an as~is­tant professor in the departmenlt, is 
of legal changes 
By SCOTI HARDEK cause ofpossible copyright infringe­SeniorStaffReportet· ment. Lisek explained "that when 1 refuse to copy something tor 
A recent lawsuit against N~w York someone it's only because I'm University and some of its faculty following a federal law." He said that over copyright infringement has there have been several times where raised concerns at many univer­customers became upset when he sities, but not at Notre Dame. r~fused to make their copies. 
Jim Neal, assistant director of 'The copy center follows several public services, said that rhe Univer­rules. First, the center will not sity has kept abreast of copyright reproduce more than one copy ofan laws and strictly follows them. article unless it is to be passed out to 
The laws concentrate on three a class free of charge and only one areas: brevity, usage, and volume copy to each member of the class. from one source. There a lot of gray Second, the center will not copy 
Nancy D'Antuono areas which are currently being more than 10/ ofany work ofpoetry 
refined in the courts through litiga­or prose. Finally, the center will not seeking tenure, promotion to as­tion. copy anything that will be used sociate professor and. fees of attor­The Notre Dame Library more than once or more than one ney. Photocopy Center makes" a sincere article from a journaL 
On the advice oJ her attorney, effort to adhere to the letter and The center recently came under D'Antuono declined to commem on spirit ofthe law" Neal said. the jurisdiction of the oftlce of Cir-the suit D'Antuono's attorney, Neal added that copyright 
See COPY, page 8
Thomas Brunner, also refused com­policies are evolving because of the ment, as did the University's general "evolving situation" in the courts counsel, Philip Faccenda. and that the policy of the center is to 
D'Antuono •1as taught Spanish try to "do what is right" in according Showdown next week grammar and iiterature, ahd elemen­copyright owners their due. tary Italian at Notre Dame since she John Lisek, a photocopy tech­was hired as an assistant professor in nician, has had to refuse many 
Freeze advocates win test vote 
August I Q76. faculty requests for photocopies be-
WASHINGTON (AP) -Nuclear up again until next Wednesday. president should "take all necessary. freeze advocates won another skir­The non-binding resolution, hotly steps" to make sure terms of a mish yesterday as the House voted opposed by the Reagan administra­negotiated freeze were in fact 
214-l9"i to shorten remaining tion, urges U.S.-'Soviet negotiation of veritlable. It was adopted 221-1 71. debate on the measure, but an "immediate, mutual and It replaced a more strongly Democratic leaders then put off a veritlable freeze" on production, worded proposal by a freeze foe, final showdown untit next week. development and deployment of all Rep. Samuel Stratton, 0-N.Y., stating 
Changes proposed for 
LaFortune center 
The procedural vote, urged by the nuclear weapons. that arms negotiators didn't have to By AMY STEPHAN silk-screen T-Shirts for clubs, halls m.tjor·ity leadership, cut off debate Freeze supporters said stalling agree to anything that couldn't be StaffReporter and other campus groups at a low on about "iO pending amendments tactics used against the measure by verified. cost Drouillard said. tp a central portion of the resolu­Republicans and conservative Critics claim the resolution, while A T-Shirt shop, the development Structural changes such as bars, tion. But Reagan administration Democrats were only postponing not carrying the force 'of law, would of Chautauqua as an undergraduate mood lighting and seating are allies vowed to fight on next week, the inevitable. tie the president's hands in arms dub and renovation~ to Darby'~ needed in Chautauqua before it can with other amendments to other "They were throwing up a few reduction negotiations now under­Place and the Campu~ Press are a serve as an und<:rgraduate club. "I portions of the bill. screwball pitches, but they're still way in Geneva. Freeze supporters few ideas which the Stuuent L'nion is don't know if we'll see anything Yesterday's vote allowed the batting zero," freeze advocate Rep. claim both nations are roughly equal considering for Lafortune next year, done on that this year," said Drouil­House to inch closer to what Edward Markey, D-Mass., said after in nuclear s!rength, and that it's time said Dave Drouillard, Student Lnion lard, noting that work is being done Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D­yesterday's session. to say enough is enough. Director. to lay the foundations for next year. Mass., predicted would be an ul­Freeze critics said changes made Yesterday's procedural votes, on a An exp;msion of the ~tutlent l :ni­"We're waiting for the administra­timate pro-freeze victory by a so far in the measure -generally motion by Rep. ClementJ Zablocki, on's ac;.demic committee to include tion to help us out," he stated. margin ranging from 50 to I00 aimed at giving the adminisation Chairman of the House Foreign Af­not only the traditional nationally­The Student Union's n;~me has not votes. more flexibility in negotiating terms fairs Committee and a sponsor ofthe known spt·akers, but also faculty been changed to the Student But neither side seemed in any of a freeze -did make it less objec­freeze resolution, halted debate on members speaking in the halls on Government Activities Board, said rush to wrap up work on the· tionable to them, but not by much. most amendments to the bill by 3:30 topics of interest to students is also Drouillard. adding that he is, "happy measure, already one of the longest Among the amendments adopted p.m. yesterday. slated for next year, said Drouillard running House debates in years. yesterday was one by Rep. Norman 
See LaFORTUNE, page 5 See FREEZE, page 8
The tenativ.e T-Shirt shop would l)';\leill said he would not even call it D. Dicks, D-Wash., asserting that the 


....:;~--------~­
..., 
News Briefs 
Ill' lb£' rJ!Jsert'l'r ;llld The Associated Press 
The English departlnent at Notre Dame has an­
nounced the winners of its annual writing competitions. Patrick Mulligan, a senior from Chicago, earned the Meehan Medal for Literary Merit. Linda Thomson, a fifth year student from South Bend, earned theJohn T. Fredrick Prize in English. Patriek Keppel, a senior from Ridgefield, Connecticut, and Mark St. Amand, a junior·from Stoneham Massachusetts, took first and honorable mention respectively for the Richard T. Sullivan Award for Fiction. Sean F. Reardon, a freshman from Wyoming, Ohio, took the Ernest Sandeen Poetry Award. Stephen D. Burkart, a senior from South Bend, and Paul McGinn, a junior from New Orleans, took first and honorable mention respectively for the Samuel Hazo Poetry Award.-The Ob­
server 
The Snite Museum ofArtwm host an opening reception for an exhibition ofdrawings, graphics and sculptures by the artist, Ivan Mestrovic, from 1 to 4 p.m. on Sunda,.y. Much of the work in the exhibition is from the Mestrovic Family Collection, and has not been exhibited or published prior to this show. The exhibi­tion, in celebration ofthe centennial ofthe noted Croatian-American artist, is sponsored by the Miliy and Fritz Kaeser Endowment for Liturgical Art. -The Observer 
jeffreyBorkowski, a freshman from south Bend, has been awarded a $1,500 scholarship, renewable annually, from the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) to pursue a course of study leading to an undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineer­ing. Borkowski is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Ladilaus J. Borkowski. He has also been the recipient ofacademic awards from the Notre Dame Club ofSt. joseph Valley and other philanthropic organizations. 
The Observer 
Notre Dame's engineering dean emeritus has 
urged federal legislators to attempt to gain private sector and non­federal support for college engineering education through current proposed legislation. Speaking to the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources Monday, joseph Hogan said federal concerns to improve high school math and science programs must not over­look college engineering needs. While commending the commit­tee's work to improve pre-college instruction, Hogan said that $250 million in aid proposed in the committee's billS. 706 "may be spread too thin to have a substantial impact," and the bill does not fully utilize abilities to gain private sector and state support. Hogan, presi­dent of the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE ), cited ASEE findings that the nation now lacks 5,092 engineering faculty to meet the student/faculty ratio of the 1968-69 academic year. A recent survey by the National Society of Professional En­gineers, he said, slates the cost of modernizing the country's college engineering lab f;1cilities at S2.2 billion. -The Observer 
It took 12 years, but Ross Sunday of Fort Wayne. Ind. finally received the letter Betty Holman sent him in September 1970 froll} about six miles away. Since the letter was written, Sunday has moved three times and started a new business. In addition, his cor­respondent had moved four times, was divorced and changed her name to Lyons, and now lives in Monroe, La. Sunday opened his mailbox Tuesday to find her letter, its lavender envelope dirty, stained and striped down the middle in orange. The letter bore a 6-cent stamp and two postmarks: Sept. 11, 1970, and April 18, 1983. "It looks like it's been through the tlood," he said. "We don't care if it's 20 years, we're obligated to deliver that piece of mail," said Fort Wayne Postmaster Eugene Gabriel. But he wasn't sure why it took so long to deliver. "If I knew, it wouldn't ever happen," he s;1id. The original address is the site of the demolished Loos Insurance Com­pany Building where Sunday once lived. Sunday now lives across the street from his old address. In the letter, Ms. Lyons asked him to get in touch with her about her apartment in the Three Rivers complex, which Sunday had been decorating. _ AP 
For her sixth birthday, Lindsay Stiffler gave her parents a birthday present -her little brother's life. On Tuesday afternoon, Lindsay's 3-year-old brother, Ryan, wandered too close to a pond near their parents' home on Fort Wayne's west side. Ryan fell into deep water and probably would have died if Lindsay hadn't pulled him from the icy water, the children's mother, Ruth Anne said.. "If she'd have run into the house to get me, it probably would have been too late," said Mrs. Stiffler. "The thing that impressed us was that Lindsay kept her cool and saved him. They were out there playing with the puppies and the next thing I knew, she was scream­ing for help," Mrs. Stiffler said. Lindsay explained her heroism easily. "I did it because he fell in the deep water," she said. The accident 
happened at approximately 3 p.m. while Lindsay was eagerly await­ing the arrival of her father, Stephen, 31, who was due home from work. She knew she couldn't open her birthday presents until then. Ryan stumbled into the water and went under, weighed down by his wet, heavy clothes. Lindsay waded into the water after him, pulling him to shore. She lost both her boots in the process. Lindsay then screamed for help until her father came home 30 minutes later. She was hysterical by then because Ryan behaved strangely after his ex­posure to the cold. He was crawling like a baby and talking baby-talk, and his skin was blue. Her parents were alarmed at his behavior, too. "He couldn't even cry," said Stephen Stiffler. "He had a hard time even making any sounds; he kind of babbled.' There was no per­manent damage, however. -AP 
Partlysunny and mildtoday with high in low 6os. Mostly cloudy and cool tonight. A 30 percent chance of rain. Low around 40. Cloudy, breezy and cooler to'morrow with a chance of rain. High in low 50s. -AP 
Friday, April 22, 1983 -page 2 
Atomic word games 
Wednesday, the Supreme Court ruled 9-0 that a state can ban the construction of new nuclear power plants until the U.S. government develops a safe way to dispose of radioactive waste. The decision upheld a 1976 moratorium imposed by the State ofCalifornia on the building of new plants. A Harvard law professor has also speculated that those nuclear plants under con­struction can be prevented from opening. 
What is so striking about the Court's ruling is not so much the prevention of nuclear power plants from opening, but the associated implications of its uphold­ing ofa specific state law over the wishes ofa presiden­tial administation. Sudde111ly, governors and state legislators have the power to ban disaster from their states without asking Capitol Hill or the White House to approve. 
In a dramatic change of pace from the 1960s, when civil rights legislation spo111sored by the johnson ad­ministration almost destroyed the concept of states' rights, the Supreme Court 
Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Friday 

from your local power company." 
Two of the three possible sites have already been selected, one in Washington state, the other in Nevada. Three of the four remaining "plug-ins" include abandoned salt domes in Texas, Mississippi, and Louisiana -perhaps the South shall glow again. And Southerners were just getting used to iodized salt. 
It s,eems so strange that while officers of the Depart­ment of Energy have assured Americans that already­disposed radioactive waste offers no danger, the sites 
chosen for the 1998 
has upheld the rights of deadline lie in sparsely pop­states to protect their own ulated areas of the country citizens. in the West and South. 
It is no easy matter for the If the Department of Supreme Court to uphold Energy is so sure about their the rights of the states when disposal techniques, why the modern era beckons to a not dump radioactive waste stronget and more pos­under its own spacious sessive central bureaucracy. office building in Washing­The workability of the ton, D.C.? After all, that federal system has been department should be ac­questioned endlessly by customed to waste by now. conservatives and liberals Another question is the alike. ~t as is the American use of the word "dispose." federal ~radition, the judicial How does the Department system is sometimes judi­of Energy dispose of some­cious and sometimes thing with a half-life ofa mil­federal. lion years? Do they place the 
According to a bill passed waste in big trash drums 

by Congress last December, the U.S. government must have ready at least one site in which to hold radioactive waste by the year 1998. This is where states' rights end and bureaucratic langu;:ge begins. 
The same law which allows stares to ban temporarily the construction of new nuclear power plants also re' quires the president to select three potential dumps for "site characterization1' byJan. 1, 1985. Ofthe three sites in the study, the president will pick one ofthese sites as the nation's first "safe" nuclear dump. The development of this showcase project, set to begin in 1987, is to be completed by the 1998 deadline, 15 years and a new world away. 
The phrase "site characterization" seems so ap­propriate for a discussion of nuclear waste. A scenario might include a PBS-produced play in which Laurence Olivier as a Department of Energy official "characterizes" a site, complete with script, special ef­fects, and illuminated set, "all made possbile by a grant 
f-The_Obs.er.Yer_ 
"Murphy's Law" 
Design Editor... .. Ddrc.lrc ""II all get• me in the end"" Murphy 
/Je.-,·ign Asst~'ilant ..... Da\.'(: "Calculu~ test at 9 a.m. today" Rohinson 
Layout Stuff... . ........... A Thou•and 
Sct·aming Mce111ies Typesetters...... .... . ........ Reegil' "Sysrc:m 
Crashed'" Daniel AI ""I Don't Give A Flying f .. '"Novas 
/Vews Editor.......... Vic "Get a real system" 
Sciulli CojJJ' Editor.... ........ Tim ""What AP Style!"' Ven:illotti 
Features Lt~)'OUI ... ....... Sarah "Ofcourse" 
ltamilton Mary '"Sappy Drivel'" lkalv Editorials Layout ..... Tari"I don'( want to 
type" Brown 
Sports Co/JJ' Editor.... Mike""No terminal'" Sulltvan Sports Extra LaJ•out... ....\1ikc "'Dzcac.llinc 
Dzavt: Dzisaster'' Riccardi 
ND Day Editor........... Tim ""Reporters all have tt:st~" Petters .\MC Day Editor. ..... Bruce ""I c.lon"t give a 
.\1oo<Jo" Oakk~· Typists.. .Monica "Freeze!" Gugle Photographer. ..... Pete ""Broken Camera'" 
Laches Guest Appearances.. .. ... (Retired) Mike "'Looks like hdl'" Monk Scott "Evt:rything already went wrong!" 
Bow-er Tom "Three Terminal" MacLennan 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) tS publtshed Monday through Frtday except durtng· exam and vacatton pertods The Obser~;;; :~ " ~'•shed by tne students of Notre Dame and Sa tnt Marys Collage Subscrtpttons 'nay be purchased for $30 per year t515 per semester) by wrtttng rheOb­server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame ln­dtana 46556 
The Observer ts a member of the Assoc tated Press All reproductiOn rtghts are reserved 
lined with lead-coated garbage bags? I can just see jonathan Winters, complete with white cap and coat, doing a !!pOt for the Depart­ment of Energy: When you need to bag a half-life, use the bag with double strength -Hefty! 
The Reagan administation has proclaimed that it will "solve" the problem of radioactive waste. Somehow, I envision a second grader standing at a chalkboard multiplying 12 by 12. Instead of getting 144, he gets 144 followed by 100 zeroes. 
Another striking part ofthe new law is its implication upon "civilian" waste only -I guess the Armed Forces can dispose of their own waste. (Hiroshima and Nagasaki are bidding for exclusive rights, I hear.) 
But whatever the outcome of the debate, we can be assured the Reagan administration will handle the situa­tion with lambskin gloves -according to reliable sources, Three Mile Island is being overrun by sheep. So much for pulling the wool over our eyes. 

See the beast at the mud pits-Saturday! 
f 
~ 
0 

Also watch the skies for our Hot Air Balloon. It will be dropping Ping-Pong Balls ... Orange ones are good for a ride on the Elephant!!! 
-~~--~ ~--------~----------~-----~~------------~---­
The Observer Friday, April22, 1983-page 3 
Students urged to support life bill banning fetal experimentation 
By MIKE KRISKO who are intended for abortion. to unborn children intended for StaffReporter May indicated that he strongly abortion," said May. supports Dannemeyer's proposal May continued to emphasize the 
John May, legislative chairman of since it is pro-life. "It prohibits all fe­seriousness of the matter. "lf this the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right tal experimentation except that research was to take place, it would to Life Club is appealling to students which is done with the intent of be like subjecting a defenseless per­to write their representatives asking improving the probability ofthe sur­son, such as a severely retarded in­their support of a bill that would vival of, or ameliorating defects of dividual, to these experiments. prohibit federal funding of fetal ex­infants," he added. Society protects defenseless adults, perimentation. The House Subcommittee on so why aren't the rights of the 
On March 16, a House subcom­Health and the Environment has ap­defenseless unborn protected?" mittee, led by Rep. Henry Waxman proved Waxman's rewording of "We hear people expressingg ( D-Calif. ), defeated Rep. William Dannemeyer's proposal. The revi­outrage at scientists who usc: un­Dannemeyer's ( R-Calif.) proposal to sion of House bill H.R. 1555 would wanted dogs for experiments. Why 
prohibit federal funding of ex­allow "federal funding of fetal ex­shouldn't people be as sensative to perimentation with unborn children perimentation posing 'minimal risk' experiments being run on unwanted humans?" 
May objected to the philosophy that if a person was going to die, scientists ought to be permitted to
CBS news ordered 
learn by running experiments on them. "Scientists run experiments on people with the intent to save
to disclose report 
lives. Barney Clark received the ex­NEW YORK (AP) -A federal The documentary was broadcast perimental heart because it was in­judge yesterday ordered CBS News Jan. 23, 1982, and three days later, tended to prolong his life. Experimenting with fetuses should
to give lawyers for Gen. William C. Westmoreland called a news con­
also only be in order to prolong their
Westmoreland a report on its own ference to denounce the program. inquiry into a controversial The documentary was the subject lives," he said. of a TV Guide story, which con­May said that concerned students
documentary on the Vietnam Wa.r. 
should write their representatives at
U.S. District judge Pierre N. Leva!, cluded it "was often arbitrary and who is coducting pretrial proceed­unfair in its approach to a subject 
the House Office Building, Washing­ings in Westmoreland's 5120 mil­that demanded all the objectivity 
ton DC, 20515, and are welcome at the club's next meeting, Tuesday atlion libel suit against CBS News, and thoroughness that the jour­
9 PM in the LaFortune Little Theater.
granted the general's request nalists ofCBS News could muster." despite the network's claim that the CBS News responded saying it report is confidential and privileged. was assigning Burton Benjamin, a CBS said it would appeal the senior executive producer, to inves­
Hesburgh surprise appearance 
judge's order. tigate the accusations. "CBS continues to believe that it is Benjamin reported his findings, .. imperative that journalists be able to and Van Gordon Sauter, president of )'.
Campus bursts into screams 
conduct post-broadcast and post­CBS News, issued a memo to r:t 
,.
publication examinations of their employees acknowledging "some ByJEFF HARRINGTON Top commiSSioners of PATC bers dispersed throughout North ., work," the network said in a state­violations" of its own standards in and DAVID SARPHIE expressed their satisfaction with the and South Quads, joined by what ment, "and confidentiality is impor­preparation ofthe documentary. News Editors outcome of the Scream, calling it "a one PATC commissioner called "a tant if these efforts are to be CBS, in its statement on Leval's or­definite success." One member show of mass hysteria." The event meaningful." der, said, "Many of those who con­The campus burst into a chorus of added "l bet the guys who r.an it last was highlighted by an unscheduled 
Westmoreland, a former com­tributed to the report were told screams with a firecracker accom­year would have been proud of us." appearance by University President mander of U.S. forces in Vietnam, ,their inpur would be confidential. PATC's chief czar said, however, Father Theodore Hesburgh.
paniment as the unofficial An Tostal contended in his suit that the Further, the order, if allowed to Campus Scream occurred last night that he was "a little disappointed Prompted by the screams of "We documentary, "The Uncounted :stand, would do violence to the First at midnight. with the t1reworks. Nobody from the want Ted!" from several hundred Enemy: a Vietnam Deception," was Amendment rights ofjournalists. The event was spurred on by the immediate organization had any­students underneath his window at libelous in accusing him of conspir­Westmoreland sued Sept. 13, and organizational efforts of the under­thing to do with them." One PATC the Administration Building, Hes­ing to underestimate the strength of claimed that Sauter's memo also ground People's An Tostal Commit­commissioner quipped "We tried to burgh stuck his head out the win­enemy forces during the conflict. libeled him. tee (PATC). stop the t1reworks by throwing our­dow and asked them what they were 
selves on top of them." doing. Although the Campus Scream had "I'm glad to see you are all ready been officially removed from the An for tlnals," H~sburgh commented
Political decision 
Tostal schedule of events, the when told of the Scream. Hesburgh PATC's czar defended his group's ac­also asked the students who they tions. "We thought that putting <..n thought would win the Bookstore
Joint Chiefs support MXplan 
the Scream was within the An Tostal Tournament before telling the 
spirit. The whole purpose of this crowd to "Have fun." WASHINGTON (AP) The Adm. James Watkins, the chief of because poliucal factors were taken 
week is to release all frustrations Campus security said that there once-divided joint Chiefs ofStaff fell Naval operations, said, he would into consideration in reaching a t1nal 
before we go into exams ...and the were no reports of injuries or other . in line yesterday behind Presidlent want the missiles in reinforced silos judgment. 
scream certainly does that." problems dur'ing the Scream. The Reagan's new plan for the MX with antiballistic missile protection "This is, after all, a Decked in official PATC garb -security guard on duty at the time missile, but conceded that politics "from a military point of view, if I democracy...unlike the Soviet Uni­
white dining hall aprons added "I didn't hear anything. l played a role in their decision. reject political and budgetary con­on. The military is controlled by 
emblazoned with slogans in black didn't even know if there was (a"We are unanimous in our sup­siderations." 
civilians." magic marker -organization mem-Scream) or not." 

port," Army Gen. John W. Vessey Jr., 
The Marine commandant, Gen. chairman of the joint chiefs, told the Robert H. Barrow, agreed, adding, Senate Armed Services Commmit­
"We want the MX out there with the tee. best hardening we can have." Vessey added that "political con­
Earlier in the week, members of siderations do come into it." 
the presidential commission tes­
On Monday, Reagan adopted the 
tified that political considerations recommendation of a presidential 
played an important role in their commission that about 100 of the 
decision. nuclear missiles he placed in used And as the chiefs were testifying,silos in the West. 
their boss, Defense Secretary CasparLast December, the joint chid~ Weinberger, told the House Armedsplit over a plan, rejected by Services Committee:Congress, to pack the missiles into a "you could ask I 0 people what'sso-called "dense pack" cluster of the best way to do it (base the MX)silos huddled together for protec­and you'd get II answers, and we'vetion. At the time, a majority said the had that over the years. There isplan's feasibility was uncertain. 
quite literally something wrong
Vessey told the committee the 
with every one of them (the basingchiefs reached their latest decision options). You can't tlnd anv one: svs­"after considering the intervening ttm that is perfect, so yo~ have· topolitical development and in make concessions."
reconsidering the arguments on technological uncertainty." Weinberger agreed with an as­
Under questioning by Sen. Ed­sessment by Rep. William L. Dickin­son of Alabama,. the: House panel's
ward :vi. Kennedy, D-Mass., Vessey ranking Republican, that "wt've on­
conceded that "political considera­ly got one more shot with this thing"
tions do come into it," since it was and "we've got to make it work" if
obvious Congress would not ap­the MX ever is to be deployed.
prove "dense pack." 
Gen. Charles A. Gabriel, the Air Sen. john Tower, R-Ttx., chair­Force chief of staft; said the man ofthe Senate comm t ittee. com­abandoned plan would be his choice mc:nted, "It seems· to me we arc 
on a purely military basis but "is not being a little bit pious and hypocriti-_ an option in m,· mind right now." cal if we reject a rc:commtndation 

I270 C0VNTRY 
RADIO PRESENTS 
Ronnie Milstlp
with special guest Jerry Clower 
lbursday, April 28 at 7:30p.m. 
at Notre Dame's Athletic And Convocation Center 
$1 0. 50 Main Floor & Lower Arena $9.50 Bleachers 
Tickets on sale at: ACC Box Office, JR.'s Music Shop-LaPorte, World R~cords-Goshen, Elkhart Truth · Elkhart, St. Joseph Bank (Main Office only) -South Bend, Robertson's ­South Bend & Elkhart, and the following Sears locations University Park Moll -Mishawaka, Orchard Moll ­Benton Harbor, Marquette Moll -Michigan City, Pierre Moron Moll -Elkhart, and Catalog Store -Plymouth 
The Observer Friday, April 22, 1983 -page 4 
Nixon discusses foreign policy, politics at LaPorte conference 

LAPORTE. Ind. (AP) -Other LaPorte police oft1cial who a~ked 
than a I0-year-old boy with a toy not to be idenritled. "The Secret gun and an impromptu news con­Service walked over and asked him ference, there were no surprises to stop making the noise." during former President Richard M. The boy was identified as Matt Nixon's visit to LaPorte. Pryblo, I 0, of LaPorte. The toy was 
The :\7th president came to this not contlscated. northern Indiana city Wednesday George Franklin, an Indianapolis evening to talk about foreign policy Secret Service agent in charge of the with nearly ';00 people who paid advance team providing security, $'50 apiece to attend "An Evening said he was not aware ofthe incident with Richard Nixon." The gathering until he asked LaPorte police about was a benefit tor the LaPorte County it. Republican organization. "They didn't tlgure it was any­
thing big enough to tell me about," Franklin said Thursday.
"We want peace. They 
The night's only other surprise want theMideast." came when Nixon spoke brielly with reporters before entering the 
Nixon was warmly received by ballroom for his talk. 
the crowd inside a ballroom at the . Earlier, Nixon aides said he would LaPorte Holiday Inn and applauded not hold a news conference in by spectators waiting outside. LaPorte and the sold-out, ticket­
A 10-year-old boy caused a tlurry holders only talk would be off-the­among Nixon's guards, however, record. when he made the mistake ofgetting That sparked a number of too close to the security detail with a complaints from news organizations toy gun. and a rush by reporters to beg, bor­
"He was by the (Nixon) car with a row or buy their way into the roy pistol and was clicking the trig­meeting. ger and it was making a noise," said a The handful that did secure tick­
cts to the gathering learned after­ward their enterprise largely was in 
vain. 
As he signed autographs and shook hands with a group of well­wishers before going on stage. Nixon tlelded questions on most of the ~ubjects he discussed later inside: the Middle East peace talks. arms control and Ronald Reagan's candidacy in I 9H4. 
He also discussed his own health. 
Limping when he walked, Nixon, 70, explained he had injured a hamstring muscle during his most recenr visit to China. 
He said the bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Beirut should not drivt: the United States out of the Middle East. 
"The tragedy there must not deter us from playing a role for peace," Nixon said. "We're going to leavt: a vacuum there ifwe leave and there'~ somebody waiting to take our place -the Soviet Union. We want peace. They want the \1ideast." 
He also predicted an arms agree­mt:nt between the Lnited States and the Soviet Union would be reached to reduce "the risk of war by miscal­culation." 
Nixon~aid Reagan should have no problem winning re-election in 
1984. 
"The best thing that President Reagan has going for him is the Democratic candidates," Nixon said. "There is no one of them who has the charisma. I don't see any one of them meeting Ronald Reagan in a close election and beating him." 
As for his own political ambitions, Nixon, who resigned from oftlce Aug. 9, I974, during the Watergate scandal, said his days as a candidate "are concluded." 
Most of those in attendance thought they got their money's worth from Nixon's 45-minute talk and a subsequent queston and answer session. 
"It was a good speech. There were no surprises," said AI Pontius of LaPorte. 
"He demonstrated very well what he's known for and that is foreign af­fairs," said Bill Bery of LaPorte, who shook Nixon's hand as the former chiefexecutive left the fundraiser. 
For others the Nixon visit was a surprising collision with history. 
"I've worked here 1 1 rears and it's one of the greatest things that's ever happened since I've been here," said Dixie Mazzeo, a waitress at the motel. 
"We had no idea he was coming," said Polly Auman of Fort Wayne, a guest at the motel who watched all the activity from outside her room. "I wish we had known and I'd have brought my camera with me." 
Nixon said he was in Indiana for "sentimental reasons." 
Noting that his mother was from lndi;ma, he ~aid the Hoosier State had been good to him in every na­tional election. 
Nixon took a brief swipe at the news media, particularly Dan Rather of CBS-TV news during his talk inside. The former president said he was depressed last November when Rather announced Rep. John Hiler, R-Ind., had lost a re-election bid. Nixon said he was equally joyful when he got up the next morning and found the news report was premature and Hiler had won. 
Nixon came to LaPorte after a re­quest from Hiler on behalf of the county GOP organization. 
Indiana Secretary ofState Edwin). 


Yes, 1 would like further information on the following programs: 
lOIII 
Name------------------------------------~------Simcox, who introduced Nixon.
@®~~~®rn 
read a message from Hiler explainng 715 North Ave. Add~ss----------------------------------------the congressman could not attend New Rochelle 
that night because of the nuclear 
New York 10801 City __________State 
freeze deliberations in Washington.
(914)636·2100 ext. 592 
State GOP chairman (iordon Dur­nil also attended the gathering but many state officials. including Gov. Robert D. Orr, did not. 

The Observer Friday, April 22, 1983 -page 5 
Prescribed drugs, leeches 
Book profiles Hitler's doctor 
Dr. Leonard Heston, a University leeches out ofthe jar," Morell wrote.
NEW YORK (AP) -Adolf Hitler of Minnesota psychiatrist, con­"I had to apply them with my fingers, took 75 different medications, cluded in a I979 study that Hitler's as they slithered out ofthe forceps."
including strychnine and belladon­trembling was a toxic reaction to The buzzing in the ear abated.
na, during the four years before the amphetamines he was getting from Days later, Morell ordered an
end ofWorld War II. 
Morell. electrocardiogram, and called in aAnd to get rid of a ringing in his Irving studied physics and mathe­hean specialist who diagnosed coro­ears, he allowed his personal matics at London University. He nary sclerosis -a potentially lethal
physician, Dr. Theodor Morell,. to worked in the German steel industry defect that could produce the chest
use leeches. because he wanted to learn the lan­pains of angina pectoris or an em­
According to a new book by David guage, and later worked for the U.S. bolism.
Irving, the British author who con­Strategic Air Command in Spain. His "This explains why Hitler
tends that Hitler has been treated 
first book, The Destruction ofDres­developed this frantic haste to get
unfairly by historians, Morell den, was published in I963. things done," Irving said. "He knewsometi!lleS administered 10 shots a In Hitler's War, published in he might suffer an angina and blot
day. Most were glucose solutions I977, Irving wrote that Hitler did out."
and vitamin mixtures. Some con­not order the massacre ofJews and
tained liver extract and testos­did not even know about it until
terone, a male sex hormone. very late in the war.
According to Morell's diaries, Of his latest work, Irving said, "I
Hitler was injected with cocaine and was very astonished to see a man of
adrenaline for conjunctivitis and such intelligence submit to medica­

belladonna and strychnine for gas. tion on a grand scale and experi­
He was given 10 different painkillers In I944, Morell told Hitfer that if ment with things like leeches at this
and sedatives, including Eukodal, a he had been attended by a "normal" mot imponant time in his life.
synthetic morphine derivative. doctor he "would have been off the 
"This book will reopen the con­
By I944, Morell had trouble job for so long that the Reich would 
troversy as to whether Morell was
injecting Hitler because he couldn't have gone to the dogs because ofit." 
advanced for his time or was a char­
find areas without needle scars. "I have had to go right to the limits 
latan and quack. He had a patient on
The Secret Diaries ofHitler's Doc­of the permissible," Morell told his 
his hands who had acute hypoc­
tor will be published June I 5 by the patient, "even though I might be hondria. He gives him injections as a
Macmillan Publishing Co. It is based condemned by many of my col­kind ofplacebo."
on the diaries and 6eports of the leagues for so doing.""Hitler didn't want a no-nonsense
German doctor who attended Hitler When Morell first began to treat doctor. He wanted a doctor fussing him, Hitler had stomach problems
from I937-45. "What doctors will find quite over him. He was rather child-like jn and eczema. Over the years he suf­
interesting is that in the last two that way. But whenever a serious fered gastrointestinal problems and weeks of Adolf Hitler's life, he was crisis was indicated, like the coro­tremors in his hands and leg. He also 
subject to a terrible tremor in his nary sclerosis, Morell turned to an was treated for sinus trouble, arms and legs and doctors have long expen." jaundice and swollen tonsils. Hean disease was diagnosed in
squabbled about the cause," Irving The trembling increased and Hit­August 1941, according to the book. ler's physical decline accelerated
said in a telephone interview from Morell was summoned to Hitler one following the 1944 bomb­
London. THE OBSERVER/PAUL CIFARELLI "During those last two weeks, he day and found his face "deathly assassination attempt. Hitler fired junior Chris Quinn takes time to photocopy some material on 
white." The dictator complained ofa Morell in April 1945, the book says,
was given Homburg 680 in rapidly thefirstfloor ofGrace Hall. The violation ofcopyright laws is a hot 
ringing in his ears. Morell ordered
increasing amounts and Haemin. because he thought the doctor was issue in today's courts. See Scott Hardek's related story• on page one. leeches, and made a small incision going to inject him with morphine
Those are indicated for Parkinson's under the ear.
disease. It doesn't mean Hitler had so he could be smuggled out of Ber­it." "The Fuhrer himself shook the lin against his will. I,-------------------------~I
1 ''OI!itting 1 
I 158 I
LaFortune I snap:~ I 
I ''I'm ~onna help you I I break the cigarette habit I
non-voting member. ments. 
continuedfrom page I 1 with my 'Larry Hagman 1
Drouillard said that the Student Next year's Student Union Coin­
1 Special Stop Smokin· 1
that it didn't. We do enough things Union and the Student Government missioners include: Ann Pillepich, 
I Wrist Snappin' Red Rub-1 
as a Student Union to be recognized should work well together next executive publicity director; Mary 
ber Band: Get one free I 
as such. The students recognize the year, emphasizing that "Brian Stevens, cultural arts; Mark Rolfes, I from your American I name Student Union as a service (Callaghan -student body presi-service; Laurene Powers, social; I Cancer Society." oriented branch of the Student ~dent) and I get along very well." Mary Jane Costello, movies; Edward I I Government." The director and comptroller Konrady, concert; Ralph Carloyn, 
Drouillard noted that the steering were chosen by the steering com­Chautauqua; and Mary Easterday, committee which sets the policy for mittee and ratified by the Student public relations. 
II t=~ II 
the Student Union has been changed Senate, according to Drouillard. He, Drouillard said that he sees a good to include the student body presi­in turn, chose the various commis­year ahead for the Student Union, 
dent, vice president, and treasurer ssioners while Robert Bondi, Stu­noting that, "We have a good group and James McDonnell, Director of dent Union Comptroller, chose the of people who are willing and want Student Activities, who will act as a comptrollers for the various depart-to work." 


Don't forget Mom! send her a smile 
for MOther's cay 
$ ~?n~~~~~~~~!~te~~~~i~~!~~ 
home 
let the 
on the 
QOOd times roll 
range 
Bright, original and irresistible to anyone who appreciates cook­A treasury of main-dish, side­ing with a smile! Party recipes, dish, dessert and party recipes! 
easy-to-prepare punches, snacks, A happy combination of cookies, dips and desserts, asdelicious, easy-to-prepare well as main-dish and side-dishgourmet treats-and lots of recipes and other luscious chuckles: stories, jokes, treats-plus a chapter of greatfascinating facts, moments to ideas on simply serving drinks tolive by, surprising footnotes, and friends in a responsible manner.
much more. This delightful se­Poems, stories and fun-facts arequel to Sister Karol's immensely scattered throughout, enlivened
popular Let the Good Times Roll 
by Sister Karol's freehand print­is done completely in her lively ing and clever drawings.
freehand printing and drawing. 96 pages, illustrated.
96 pages, illustrated. 
Spiral binding, $4.95
Spiral binding, $4.95 
Available at Hammes Notre Dame St•. Mary's College Bookstore Bookstore
• 
FURNITURE 
RENTALS 
Save yourself the hassle of truck rentals and labor. Select the quality pieces you need (at low monthly rates) and leave the work to us. We pick up and deliver! 
SOFAS-CHAIRS-END TABLES LAMPS -DINETTE & BEDROOM SETS Quality Furniture I Low Monthly Rates 
SAVE 50/ RESERVE YOUR SELECTIONS 
/0 BY MAY 10th 
CALL (219) 291-2807 c~'=~~~~ 
CAMPUSFURNITURE RENTAlS, INC./P.O. BOX 2683/SOVTH BEND, IN 46680 

--------------------------------------------, 
The Observer Friday, April 22, 1983 -page 6 

THE OBSERVER t /PETE LA(:HES 
Freshman Cathy Schafer anxiously awaits the egg that has been thrown to her in the egg toss competition at Saint Mary's yesterday. An Tostal events continue this week-end at both campuses. 
''Excellent. The food was wonderful ­service, excellent-and the sa 
,, 
was great•(}~ 
W-?n...J:.-Mr. Olin Mack 
"Thank you, thank you, thank you! Great food and service ...golly, I feel like family!" 
Sandy Bronicki Mishawaka. Indiana 
• 
"I really enjoyed the sole and salad. Service was excellent ... I'll be back." 
~" :r~.c~­
Mr. George Close Coldwater. Michigan 
C 1983. Connnen1a~Res1auran1 Svs1~m~ 
Ir---------------------~ 
ANY TWO (2) DINNER ENTREES 
TIPPECANOE 
I 
PLACE® 
JUST$1995
I 
RESTAURANT 

You can save up to $13.45
I 
Presenr this couron when ordering and you and, your companion I will receive any TINO dinner entrees of your chotce. including our tableside salad. bread and bu"er. vegetable of the day. and rrce I or rotatoes for JUSt S19 95. Coupon good during dinner hours through June 30. 1983. excertI on Easter. Mother's Day and Me> 13 through 15. 1983. 0Jo1 
I 
valid in .:onjuncrion wilh any olher srec1al offers or for banq~e!S 620 W Wash1ngton. South Bend. 234-9077 
Does not include arpetiler-s. desserts. bever,Jg'"'· or tax and llfJ 
Resen.ationc; d\.allable 
NDIN-A ~ 1% ~ (1;r.:1n••nr,;1 1-(....~,,... r,~t•T '":!l.,..t,•., ~ 
an affordable price. Next time you plan to dine out. visit us at Tippecanoe Place. You 'II like the way we make the occasiqn special." 
w.~ 
Mark McDonnell. General Manager 
St. Joserh. Michigan 
':4t Tippecanoe Place. our food is as fabulous as our setting. Our staff is dedicated to providing you with the finest dining experience to be found anywhere...at 
Israel fears Syrian war activity, reports six deaths in fighting 
JERUSALEM ( AP) Israel signaled concern yesterday that Syria might be preparing for war. and the military command reported two Israelis and four Arabs killed in the latest clash along the Syrian­lsraeli front line in Lebanon. 
The command said Israeli troops intercepted four guerrillas trying to infiltrate Israeli lines south of Sofar ncar the Beirut-Damascus highway late Wednesday. It did not say if the guerrillas were Syrians or Pales­tinians. 
An Israeli army spokesman reported that a third Israeli soldier was killed yesterday in southern Lebanon in an ambush about 11 miles north ofthe Israeli border. 
The incidents coincided with news reports ofincreasing Syrian ac­tivity in Lebanon, an extensive Soviet rearmament of Syria and recent Syrian war games -cited as evidence of a possible Syrian of­fensive. 
The reports, carried by most major newspapers and radib net­works, originated from a back­ground briefing to Israeli military correspondents by Defense Minister Moshe Arens. 
The reports said it was ndt clear whether the Syrians were preparing a spring campaign or were adopting a defensive posture because they feared an Israeli attack. 
But in a clear signal w Damascus, the reports said brael had no inten­tion of launching an attack, ami was deliberately avoiding measures that could be read by Syria as a provoca­tion. 
"We do not want to have any con­tlict with the :>yrians," said a Foreign Ministry spokesman who was asked to comment. 
Israeli military sources s:~id the Syrians were returning to positions they abandoned with the onset of winter snows, but were not reinforc­ing beyond their strength of last autumn. The Syrians now have more than two divisions in Lebanon or near the border. 
Soviet first secretary expelled by Australia 
CANBERRA, Australia ( AP) -The "a professional intelligence oftker Australian government today ex­of the Committee for State Security pelled the first secretary of the (KGB)." Ivanov's actions since Soviet Embassy, describing him as a being assigned to Australia in 19~ 1 KGB agent who was a threat to na­"threatened Australia's national tional security. security in a way which could not be 
Foreign Affairs Minister Bill tolerated by the government," said Hayden said the diplomat, Valeriy Hayden, a member of Australia's Nikolayevich Ivanov, had "infringed new Labor government. the conventions applying to the The explusion is the latest in a proper conduct ofdiplomats." series of similar moves taken by 
He said he had ordered Soviet Am­Western countries, with Soviet offi­bassador Nicolai Soudarikov to ar­cials being accused ofespionage and range for Ivanov to leave Australia then expelled from Britain, France within seven days. and elsewhwere. Yesterday, the 
Hayden sait1 the government had United States ordered the explusion obtained evidence that Ivanov was of three Soviet officials. 
. J.f~ J(uMd-­
~ /'Requests for Refunds 
for Lil' Sibs' Weekend will be accepted through Friday, April22. Please drop off a written request to Student Government Offices 2nd Floor LaFortune No Extent ions. 
rllllllllllllltlllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIftlllllllllft 
I ND -SMC STUDENTS 
I 
SUMMER DISCOUNT GROUP 
I 
RATES 8 &8 Storage Self· Service 
1/2 mile south of Niles K-Mart 
i
i 3001 U.S. 31 ·east side of highway.
,.................................................................................................... 
CORBY'S 
An Tostal "Weekend" 
Fri/Sat HAPPY HOUR 4-7 Mix Drinks ............ . 2forone (served in FREE Corby's 1982-83 Commemorative Glasses) 
Budweiser Cans-.......95<e, 9pm-3am 

The sources said the Syrians could switch from a defensi,·e to an ot~ fensive deployment within a few hours. 
The military command reported a sharp rise in the number of attacks on Israeli torces in the last two months. It said the winter lull was followed by nine-incidents in Ma-rch in which three Israeli soldiers killed. and eight incidents this month with five dead. 
The Israelis contend ~at the. Syrians keep a tight rein on Pales­tinian guerrillas in territory under their control, and such attacks would be impossible without Svrian collusion. · 


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
cases were reported, the CDC said. 
The cases represented a tem­porary stumbling block in the drive to wipe out measles in the United States. The CDC said college stu­dents accounted for more than 52 percent of the measles cases reported in the United States in the first 13 weeks of the year, or 241 of 458 cases. 
"Measles outbreaks on campuses are disruptive and costly," the CDC said in its Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. 
An estimated 21,000 doses of measles-rubella vaccine were given to Indiana students after Feb. 15 ­first to students who volunteered, then later, as the outbreak con­tinued, under a requirement that students prove immunity or get the shots. 
"The IU outbreak demonstrates 
that volunteer vaccination programs 
generally meet with only limited 
success," the CDC said. "Future col­
lege outbreaks should be met wth 
immediate (immunity) require­
ments." 
The CDC assumes that a last 80 percent of the IU students were ac­tually immune, either through ex­posure or previous vaccination. But since many could not prove it, wholesale immunization was begun -often on students who would not have needed it. 
"A high proportion ofthe students 
were vaccinated unnecessarily," the 
CDC concluded. "If records had 
been available before the outbreak, 
the number ofdays lost from classes 
and the number of unnecessary 
vaccine doses administered might 
have been substantially reduced." 
The direct costs of measures to 
control the outbreak have exceeded 
S225,000, and formal economic 
analysis is not yet in, the CDC said. 
"It is more cost-effective to 
prevent measles outbreaks than to 
attempt to control them," the health 
agency said. "Colleges should con­
sider establishing immunization re­
...................._,................................... 
CONTACT LENS Replacements & Spares AS LOW AS 
$14.95 
Call for details 
1 800 255-2020 i
I f
EYE CONTACT i P.O. Box 7770 ~ ~Shawnee Mission, KS 6620~ 
iiMIIIIItlllllllllllllllllllllllltlllltlllltllltlllllllllll~ 
Join the 
Circle KClub 
on An TostQI Satutday••• Play Quarters for the muscular Dysttophy Association! Ev•nt: Quatt.r ffill• ofQuatt.ra 
the disease could be wiped out in 
Solidarity Chief Lecb Wa/esa talks with a
the United States by 1984. 
newsman during a news conference at his 
Letters spark senate to repeal Reagan tax plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Senate yielded to a massive letter­writing campaign promoted by the banking industry yesterday and agreed to repeal President Reagan's plan for withholding taxes from in· terest and dividends. 
The 91-5 vote approved a so­called compromise, drawn up by Republicans, designed to save face for the president. Technically, it leaves the withholding law on the books -but prohibitsits use unless Congress adopts it again in 1987. 
Republican leaders hope the president -who has vowed to veto any repeal of wihhholding -will view their compromse as postpone­ment, not repeal. But before the bill even gets to Reagan, it wil have to 
win  House  approval,  and  
Democratic leaders  in  the House  
favor withholding.  

Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan told reporters, "we're not supporting any compromise." 
The Senate vote attached the repeal provision to a minor trade bill, which has problems of its own. The biggest problem is that it con­flicts with the Constitution, Which· requires that all tariff and other revenue bills originate in the House. That flaw alone could allow House leaders to bottle it up forever. 
Withholding of 10 percent of in­terest and dividends for tax purposes was enacted last year to slow the cheatingon such income. It became unpopular after the banking industry launched a major attack; angry savers responded with mil­lions of letters to Washington demanding that it be repealed. 
Many of those letters indicated taxpayers viewed withholding as a new tax, which is not, and feared it would gobble up giant shares of their saY' ,gs, which it would not. 
There has been no solid indica­tion whether Reagan would go along with the compromise, assuming it passes the Senate and the Democratic-controlled House. Regan says the administration is standing firm for withholding as the best way to reduce cheating on in­terest and dividends, which costs the government $8 billion a year. 
,..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIItllllllllllllllllltl.. 
.an oprnmoctln(j roR all thOS€ I 
~eshman ORientation 

Sunbay, dpRil 24 7:30 l€wts PaRty Room au aR€ W€lcom€!! 
,................................................................................................ 
The 1983 DOME is Here 
Distribution: Friday, Apri I 22 11-4 pm Sat and Sun. 4-6 pm Mon. and Tues. 11-4 pm 
First must show N.D. undergraduate 
I.D. at Stepan Courts then pick up yearbook at truck in parking lot. 
Gdansk home. Walesa bas been asked to go to the shipyards in Gdansk today but was nottold why. 
Lucia (1972) Humberto Salas. Cuba. 8/W. 160 m>n Span1sh w1th Engi1Sh subt1t1es A portrait o! a woman >n pre-and postrevolutionary Cuba. LuCia balances hJStor•cal sweep and prtvate drama •n 11s dep•ctJon of SoCial change Moreover. Lucta med11a1es on the relatton of soCial change to aesthetsc forms. gsv1ng us each of the ftim·s three parts •n a d•tterenl him style 


A(m/22 
.................oupon................ 
Students and Staff 
of St. mary's and Notre Dame 
additional oH -
SlOO 
On your best deal on any new Toyota. 
Just present coupon and I.D. to 
ffiichael Fahey at 

over 100staff, alum, & students sold Call237-4052 one per customer .................coupon................ 

Monday, April leaves Main Circle 
ee NDers at 7PM 
Tim Koegel, Jim Stone, Luther Bradley! 
$11 
Sign up at NDSU ticket officejrecord store 
1 :30-3:25·5:20 7:15-9:30 
Midnight Shows Friday & Saturday 
Rocky Horror • Pink Floyd The Wall Fast Times at Ridgemont High 
2 for 1 Midnight Shows with this ad 
t 
t r 
The Observer 

~~~~~~~~~~~ 

is accvpting applications for thv position of 
Production Manager. 
Applications are due 5PM Friday. April 22. For morv information. call Margarvt 239-74 71 

ARCOSANTI ~~~~s::: 83 
Arcosanti is a unique environment designed by Paolo Solari lntergrating living, learning and doing in the urban laboratory that is being constructed with the aid of volunteer labor in Arizona. The following five week workshops are offered for 1983. 
CONSTRUCTION: Focus Is on skills development from plan reading to finish work. Staff architects and skilled craftspeople guide participants in building. 
AGRICULTURE: Arid lands agriculture using organic techniques: Greenhouse, field preparation, irrigation, biological pest control, harvest and solar dry herbs and vegetables from tO acres of field crops, orchards and vines. 
DATES: Construction/Agriculture run concurrently: June 6, July 11, August 15, September 12, October 10 and November 7. 
The workshops are designed around a core curriculum explaining Soleri"s concepts and the purpose for building Arcosanti. 
SPECIAL WORKSHOPS OFFERED ECO·PHILOSOPHY May 1 ·13, August 14 · 27 NATCRE and the AMERICAN EXPERIENCE June 12 · 25 PRINTMAKING July 11 ·August 15 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Cosanti Foundation Dept. E 6433 Doubletree Rd., Scottsdale, Arizona 85253 (602) 948-6145. 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYMENT POTENTIAL FOLLOWING WORKSHOPS FOR GRADUATES. 
Friday, April22, 1983-page 8 
John Glenn declares bid for White House 
NEW CONCORD, Ohio ( AP) -In a high school that bears his name, Democratic Sen. john H. Glenn declared his presidential candidacy yesterday and vowed to push for an immediate freeze of nuclear weapons, repeal of future tax cuts and a return to "the simple values we learned in this small town." 
Glenn became the sixth Democrat to formally announce a bid tor the White House. Polls with­in the party rank him second behind former Vice President Walter F. Mondale in the race for the nomina­tion in San Francisco next year. 
Some national surveys have indi­
cated both Mondale and Glenn 
could beat President Reagan if the 
Soviet cosmonauts fail in link up attempt 
lake in front ofLeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. The Chariot Races is on~y one of the many events planned for this week-end's An Tostul festivities. 
LONDON (AP) -Three Soviet cosmonauts failed to link up with an augmented space station as scheduled on last night, Britain's leading space monitors reported. 
There was speculation that the Soviet spacemen aboard the Soyuz T-8 were having trouble because of the size and complexity of their 40­ton target, the Salyut 7 space station plus the Cosmos 1443 supply ship. 
Geoffrey Perry of the Kettering Satellite Monitoring Group said the space station was about 50 miles ahead of the manned Soyuz at 9:43 
p.m. (3:43 p.m. EST) "so they've definitely not docked." He said the two spacecraft were visible to the naked eye. 
• • • Copy 
continuedfrom page I 
culation/Stacks Services. It was for: merly under the department of Support Services, which handles the mail and supplies at the library among other things. The center has not undergone any changes, but now has an expanded pool of copy workers. 
The Kettering group had calc­
ulated that the docking would take 
place six hours earlier. 
Throughout Thursday, Radio Moscow emphasized, "It is the first time that a piloted spacecraft will dock with such a huge space com­plex." It reported that the cos­monauts were doing well. 
• • . Freeze 
continuedfr(lm page I 
Still O'Neill insisted, "This is not a Democratic issue. It's an issue for members of Congress to vote their conscience on." Freeze opponents, however, claim Democrats are attempting to make a political issue of the resolution by turning it into a vote of no confidence for Reagan's arms policy. 
Freeze backers said the vote sug­gested they had not lost any ground in the month since the measure came up, despite the long delay in 
rorcing a conclusion. 
O'Neill predicted that the freeze 
would pass by a margin of"50 to 100 
votes and possibly more" whenever 
it reaches a final vote. 
election were imminent. 
Standing in the packed 
auditorium of john Glenn High 
School, the 61-year-old former 
astronaut, the first American to orbit 
the Earth, recalled his youth in this 
southern Ohio community of 1,800 
people and his pride that its young 
people "could aspire to anything." 
Glenn's announcement speech contained repeated references to God and patriotism, values and com­passion, and his experience as a combat pilot, a space pioneer and, for the past eight years, a U.S. senator. 
Many party pros think Glenn's mid-American roots and hero's reputation make him their most for­midable possibility in a contest against Reagan. Others think him dull, a stigma wrought particularly by his lackluster keynote speech at the 1976 Democratic Convention. 
Glenn is painfully aware of that; 
even jokes ofit. And his delivery yes­
terday had considerably more zip 
than that performance. 
He chasti~ed Reagan for talking about values while his administra­tion's deeds "have fallen short of its words. 
"The policies of this administra­
tion aren't expanding opportunity, 
they're diminishing it. They aren't 
promoting excellence, they're dis­
couraging it. They aren't fostering 
compassion, they're reducing it," 
Glenn declared. 
The former Marine colonel said 
"we can keep America's defense the 
strongest on eanh because we know 
the first duty of government is to 
keep our people alive. independent 
and free. 
"Yes, I'll stand up for the military -and I'll also stand up to the military when that is what our na­
tional interest demands." 
In his announcement speech, Glenn endorsed "an immediate, mutual and verifiable freeze on nuclear weapons" while placing par­ticular empha'sis on the word "verifiable." 
He also called for deferring this year's 10 percent cut in income tax rates, and repeal of tax rate indexing -future cuts to keep taxes from rising ahead ofinflation. Those steps, he said, would save S225 billion over the next four years. 
***************THISSUNDAY AND MONDAY ONLY*************** 

BLOOPERS 

A RARE COLLECTION OF UNRELEASED OUT-TAKES FROM FAMOUS T.V.SHOWS 
Plus: "Bambi meets Godzilla," "Hardware Wars," three rare Monty Python surprises, and much more. 

MAIN ENGINEERING BUILDING AUD. Sunday and Monday April 24,25 7:00 & 9:00 PM each night • specia/15 min. rare Beatie film preview 
Limited good seating-Come early. $3.00 w/ NO I. D.· $4.00 general 
\' 
Editorials 
Friday, April 22, 1983 -page 9 
I 
Edelman will challenge Saint -Mary's seniors 
• 
Marian Wright Edelman, president ofthe Children's Defense Fund since its founding in 1973, could chal­lenge the Saint Mary's graduating class to achieve in a world stifled by injustice and to strive for equality in the careers they choose. 
With national attention currently focused on inter­national conflict, there is a tendency to neglect inter­nal conflict. This leads to the eventual stagnation of our country's growth. Edelman has achieved much for posterity through her personal accomplishments despite racial prejudices. Edelman, who has been active in civil rights movements since her graduation from Yale Law School in 1963, was also the first black woman admitted to the Mississippi bar. 
Although making great strides in the career world, women still deal with prejudices in addition to a fast­paced environment filled with pressure to succeed. 
What Edelman can offer the graduating class will prove invaluable. Having dealt with injustices herself, she has insight into the problems women encounter in their careers. 
The future, our future, lies in the youth of our country. This valuable resource has the capability to gain a better understanding of the international problems facing us today. International strife cannot be resolved while domestic injustices and inequalities run rampant. 
Edelman's career is a testimony to the importance of youth to society. She founded the Washington Research Project in 1968, which became the Children Defense Fund in 1973. From that time on Edelman has devoted her career to defending this invaluable resource of the future. She served as counselor to the Child Development Group of_Mississippi, one of the largest Head Start programs in the United States. As a person who has surpassed racial hurdles in times of great:Tacial tension, Edelman has gone on to clear the path for posterity. 
In the constant struggle to balance the natior?sfocus between international and domestic problems, Edel­man can redirect the attentions of those about to become immersed in the trouble-filled world. And in serving the public interest, she can provide a political perspective in addressing social justice, an issue often left for religious. 
The College has consistently invited people with diverse backrounds and people with careers par­ticularly applicable to a Catholic women's college. Edelman not only fulfills the criteria but stands out as a controversial woman who can confront the class with the social problems of the nation and convince them oftheir ability to deal with the problems. 
Hesburgh insults students and The Observer 
On the night of April 12, 1983, many wes­tern New York dignitaries, Notre Dame alumni, and family and friends of Notre Dame students gathered in the main banquet room ofthe Buffalo Hilton Hotel. The occassion was the annual dinner of the Notre Dame Alumni 
RandyFahs 
Friday Analysis 
Club of Buffalo. Nearly one thousand people were in attendence, including Mayor Griffin of Bulfalo, Mayor McLaughlin of Niagara Falls, Erie County Executive Rutkowski (a Notre Dame grad), and many other influential and well-known people. The reason for the atten­dence ofsuch a large and prominent group of people was the appearance ofnone other than Notre Dame's President, Father Theodore M. 
Hesburgh. 
.. 
Hesburgh was ofcourse called on to make a speech. He began witlt his typical array of name and place droppings which included a story about how many people recognized him while he was walking around Moscow's Red Square. His speech eventually included the topic ofhow lenient Notre Dame had become in its regulations and disciplinary practices. He talked about the good old days when stu­dents wore jackets and ties, had evening cur· fews, and freshmen lived in separate dorms. 
Hesburgh then spoke about an incident in a Florida bar during Spring Break where the University's name and reputation were dis­graced. While he did not go into specifics about the incident, he said that those who read The Observer knew what he was talking about. Hesburgh went on to say that he felt the student should have been e~pelled, but that this didn't take place because the student was a senior whose friends came to his side to sup· port him, and because of the publicity the whole issue received in The Observer. Then, in an air of wreckless insult, Hesburgh said, "The Observer is a paper written by juveniles and read by juveniles." 
While there were some editorial feelings expressed by students after the issue had been made public and resolved, The Observer ran only one news account ofthe story and it was after the public meeting in the Morrissey Hall chapel. The Observer learned ofthe issue prior to this, but had held back on publishing an ac­count ofevents out of respect for the privacy of the parties in question and because of the sensitive nature of the proceedings. In fact, Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer askedThe Ob­server to come to the meeting at the Morrissey Hall chapel. 
From the account in The Observer by Mark Worscheh, "Roemer listened intently to all of the comments, and he repeatedly stressed that he wanted to hear everyone's opinion. The gathering, he said during the meeting, was 'one of the finest things I have ever seen so far."' It seems to me that the issue was ra­tionally, reasonably, and maturely handled by Roemer, the students, and The Observer. 
It seems odd that Hesburgh would make such a defamatory statement in public about the Notre Dame student body and its newspaper. He often tells us that we are fine and mature individuals and that he has no worries about leaving the fate of the world in our hands. I do not believe that his remark was one ofdeep seated negative feelings about The Observer and Notre Dame students, but rather one that was off the cuff and out offrustration by a man who is so detached from the Univer­sity that he has trouble understanding its com­plex goings-on. 
Hesburgh's remark and the actions of the Notre Dame students in the Ft. Lauderdale bar share something: they were one-time events which reflect a passing carelessness during the heat of the moment. We should not judge the people by one act and it would be ir· responsible to expel either; a simple apology is all that is needed. Both events should be taken as a learning experience, because maturity is a cumulative process and maybe there is a little bit of juvenility in all ofus. 
P. 0. BoxQ•  ...  
Village shuttle DearEditor: On behalf of the residents of University Village ­married students all ­we want to express our gratitude to those in Student Government and Student Activities at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame who are considering including the University Village in the regular shuttle bus schedule. Our case is a simple one: both graduate and undergraduate married students reside at University Village, and those without cars available to them must regularly walk (or bike) one mile to the center of campus. So the ones most in need will be the very ones served by the shuttle bus. It is clear that the alteration suggested will sometimes i11con· venience some campus riders. In compensa· tion on each return trip home, since they will return via Saint Mary's and sit out on the layover there, Village riders will be incon­venienced. Thus, all of us are faced with a trade-off, yet with one which provides service to a sector of 264 adults (exclusive of children) otherwise not served at all, ex· cept by four runs during the day. A major benefit of this change would be the evening  service to and from campus, providing an in­we do by overlooking needs which may be valuable service to these students, and the most desperate, but are inconvenient to eliminating the need to travel through un­serve? There are many needs which most of tended and unlit fields between the Village us "can't afford" to serve. This is indicative of and the remainder ofcampus. Moreover, the the contradiction. location of University Village north of The class of 1983 graduates in a few Douglas Road can lead people to overlook weeks. School will be over, and it is up to this group of students, so attention to our each individual to decide which values he or needs as students is welcome as a counter­she will pursue. During this class's freshmen point to that attitude. mass in August 1979, a letter from Father David Burrell, CSC Hesburgh read, "After four years here, you AI F. D'Alonzo, CSC will either be a much, much better person, Mary Romer Cline or much, much worse." It is time for the Campus Ministry Team members ofthis class to evaluate which they ofUniversi~y Village have become. Karen Miranda Christian service DearEditor: Church authority A contradiction exists in the approach to Christian service at Notre Dame. The values DearEditor: of the University encourage us to serve the Mr. Foubert's reluctance to address the needs of humanity, while simultaneously issue precisely can perhaps be traced to a advocating the pursuit of personal excel­number of unfortunate tendencies. The lence and recognition. It is the difference be­overriding one, I think, is his over· tween service for its own sake and service enthusiasm to introduce non-clerics into the for the sake of needs. decision-making apparatus of the Church. True Christian service must be given for While I can sympathize with such en­the sake of the needs served. What good can thusiasm, especially after centuries of  neglect by the official magisterium, it remains scholarly deplorable and pastorally irresponsible. Second, he fails to understand, I think, that the Church is not a democracy. When the pope and bishops define an article of faith, then it ought to be taught and respected as such, even if a large number of liberal-minded theologians disagree. Indeed, the reasons for dissent can also be fruitfully discussed, but only iftheir relation­ship with the authoritative doctrines remains clearly understood. Third, I think his understanding of the Holy Spirit's in­fluence on the Church is a bit naive. It is simply not true that if the floodgates were opened and every person with an opinion on a Church-related affair were allowed to speak with equal authority on it, that the Spirit would see to it that everything turned out right. I think that the Church's history of heresies and schisms has proved that order is absolutely essential to its proper function; this is why we have a hierarchy at all. Finally, 'regarding the "vigilante men­tality" to which Mr. Foubert referred, I can only regret his unprofessional contempt for opposing theological views. This trait is curiously endemic among budding young "open-minded, progressive" theologians. Richard Flint  

Editorial Board
Ihenbsener==~= 
Editor-in-Cbief............................David Dziedzic Saint Mary'sEditor...............Anne Monastyrski Box Q, .'1/utreDame, 1:'\i 4655fi Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tlu: Uni· Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton 
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
DepartmentManagers
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Business Manager.......:~.....-....... DanielO'Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto and the free expression ofvarying opinionson_campus, through letters, is encouraged. ' Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas SystemsManager...........................Bruce Oakley AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303 
Friday, April22, 1983-page 10
~SttOWC 
SE 
Keep Chtist With You 
I 
used to feel shy about asking Catholics ifthey are faithful in attend· ing Mass. I hated the thought of my coming on strong in anything so personal as the practi_ce of faith. In growing older, I have become less polite. The Mass is important in a Catholic's life. As an aggressive priest, I'm not afraid to say:" Keep Christ with you." One ofthe ways a Catholic keeps in the company ofChrist is attending Mass. Several times a week is not too often. 
For many years, the majority ofstudents used to attend Mass every dav of their Notre Dame lives. From my exp t crience, it seems that no~adays on campus, more guys attend weekday Masses than gals. Notr~ Dame men seem to be in closer touch With the tradition of fathers and brothers who were daily communicants in the older days 
Rev. Robett GtiHin 
letters to a lonely god 
when the morning Eucharist was part ofthe Christianity ofthe place. Notre Dame women, newcomers without role models to follow, en­hanced the style ofSunday Masses in the dorms. But from what I have 
seen, on weekdays, they never leave their chaplain feeling he has a religious revival on his hands. I keep waiting for signs that the Notre Dame coeds are developing their own special traditions of spirituality and worship. Until they do, I will not feel they've gotten close to the religious spirit which identifies us as our Lady's campus. 
The most moving part ofthe Notre Dame story is what happens to the graduates when they leave the campus. I admire the older generations, with their love of the Eucharist, who became landmark figures in their local communities. A number ofalumni still go to Mass daily, as the result ofhabits offaith encouraged years ago when they were students at Notre Dame. 
The Mass is not magic. The Mass said by a long-winded priest in a dismal church can fail to put you in touch with the love of God. Yet the grace ofthe Eucharist never fails. The words ofeternal life are as beautiful as ever. "Keep Christ with you." You may not now feel the goodness ofthis half hour: the priest mumbles mysteries as though he were talking to himself; the Communion wafer tastes like it was made ofpaper. But you have opened your soul to the power of the redeeming God. Eternity spills over into these moments to become, when you least expect it, part of the blessedness of the rest ofyour life. The Christ ofthe altar ~without sentimentality or politics-is the Lord of the saints, the heroes ofour race. The priest with his words gives a new identity to wine and bread. Love is here. eternal and sacrificial, not counting the cost ofassuming the form of a ~er­vant. The perfect Lover reminds us ofthe journey He made into dark­ness with the cross on His back. 
Most of us are ambitious for more pleasing things than sanctity. We want good jobs, love, and fulfillment. Everyone works hard at something, even ifit's just to be the biggest clown in town. We keep disappointing ourselves, so we start over; as a time ofstarting over, NewYear'sdayisa big commercial success. We take courses; we go on diets, and jog; we take up the piano to entertain our friends. Sooner or later, we are disappointed to find that the world is not offering us much attention. Competitors, who think they are better than we are, are always trying to put us down. Some nights, we feel thatwe've been mugged, :md we didn't even see the guy who swung the punch. We belong to a brotherhood of also-rans. It helps, ifwe have kept our selfrespect. It's a blessing, if we feel our loved one~ still respect us. It is wise to examine our bruises at the foot of the Cross. · 
I love theworld more, perhaps, than a priest should; if! didn't love the world so much, I wouldn't spend so much time in New York. I enjoy the good life, the excitement, the sophisticated places. I spend a lot ofmoney on gracious living. I even spend money I haven't got, relying on the generosity of my friends. However rich my lifestyle, I know the world isn't going to move over and let me keep an honored place. The world isn't going to guarantee me its love, or forgive my mistakes. New York streets are full ofex-playboys who are turned away from the best doors for being shabby. 
The Mass celebrates earth's greatest defeat and its most stunning victory. Idon't know how much ofthe Good News ofChrist you will need for your life. It can't hurt to know that your life, whether you're going up or down, is part ofa love story beginning in the heart of God. 
It's not easy to find the words urging you to be faithful to the Mass. I once heard a priest call the Mass the "heartbeat ofcreation;" I'm not sure what it means, hut it sounded good. The Mass is the everlasting ritual established by Christ to remind us that He loves us and wants to save us. The Lord's offer is the best offer any ofus has ever had. It's somethingworth hanging onto, as the Gospel and liturgy presents it. · Your hanging on is something I will never be ashamed to ask you about. · 

mAN OF L~ 
T
/Je Man ofLa Mancha, this season's musical production from the ND Student Players, proved last night that dreams do not die; they come alive again each night this weekend. ProducerJoe \lusumeci has mounted a remarkable rendition ofthis well-loved Broadway musical, which dramatically presenrs the plight ofDon Miguel de Cervantes in prison during the Spanish Inquisi-
David m. &Qtbet 
features 
tion. He undergoes a mock trial by the inmates and presents a play ofhis classic tale of Don Quixote as hi:; defense. As the plot of this play un­folds, we arc imroduced to Quixote, the aged knight-errant, and his :;ide kick, Sanc'10 Panza, who sees the mad nobleman through his misad­ventures in Spain. Dreams govern Quixote's life, for he quests to find beauty and love in every person and moment. He tlnds his dream lady in the tired tavern wench, Aldonza, whom he proceeds to woo in court­ly fashion as his Dulcinea, as he renames her. In the end, Quixote 
proves dreams live on and con­vinces Aldonza that Dulcinea has al­ways been imprisoned inside her, a dream undreamt that is as real as her existence. The play ends affirming this beliefin dreams, as Cervantes is called before the Inquisition. 
Director Michael Szatkowski has 
Seniot memoties of a diffetent sott 
T
he letter arriv~d just as I was making my Senior For­mal plans a lew weeks ago: 
"Dear Mr . .'Veedles: 
"/am pleased to inform you tbat you baue passed the initial screening for admission to Ibe graduate program in Sports Managemental/he Universi~V of Massacbusetts, and the admissions committee bas decided that you should be in~ited to campusfor an interview. 
"You are im•ited to the interview on Friday, Apri/8, at I p.m." 
Something didn't sit well when I read that. "Hey, when's the formal?" I asked a friend. 
Chtis Needles 
features 
"April 9th," he said. 
Keep in mind that the Senior Formal is not just tlve hours ofdancing on a Saturday night. It is shopping in Chicago on Friday afternoon, Second City on Friday night, a play on Saturday. It is also expensive, and since getting to the interview was to be out of my own pock­et, I had to choose between the two. 
The Formal or the Interview? 
Unfortunately, there was no choice. It was either take the interview, or face potential unemployment on May 16 and beyond. 
So, on that Thursday, while everyone else gleefully prepared tor a weekend offrivolity, I tlew to Newark, N.J., where I would meet my parents and together we would drive up to Amherst, Massachusetts. 
flying into Newark any day is bad enough, but on this day it resembled Golgotha on the afternoon ofChrist's crucifixion -overcast, dark, and verv depressing. South Bend doesn't even get this bad. And it didn't help matters that, ten minutes into the trip, we drove through a certain town in northe-asternJersey, tl. ., where my would-be Formal date happen.s to live. 
The interview went well, hut through it all, I coull. get out ofmy mind what I would have been ·loing had I been in Chicago that day. 
That is, until the trip home to Philadelphia, when my father announced we would be stopping in Connec­ticut to sec our t(xmer next door neighbors -whom we affectionately call Uncle Bob and Aunt Rita (although we aren't related), and whom I hadn't seen since they moved away six years ago. 
hrst, a little background. Several years ago, 1 Jncle 
Bob was a successful salesman in eastern Pennsylvania, 
had a terrific wife, an attractive daughter, a nice house 
and the cutest little dog, a beagle-dachshund named 
Mercedes, that everyone on the street loved. 
Like most people in Philadelphia, Uncle Bob was a 
diehard sports fan. He regularly accompanied us to 
baseball games, and would always take the time to hit us 
fly halls in the backyard. 
But it all came crumbling down in the summer of 
1977. One sultry Sunday afternoon, Uncle Bob suffered 
a stroke; and as the ambulance sped away, we knew that 
even if he survived, his life, and all ofour lives, would 
never again be the same. 
Uncle Bob lived, but was left permanently disabled. 
Shortly thereafter, Mercedes had her foot run over 
while chasing a car. The combined medical bills were 
too high for a limited disability income, and there was 
only one solution -sell the house and move to a less 
expensive condominium in Connecticut, where Aunt 
Rita's family lived. 
The day they moved away, we all promised we'd see 
each other often. My parents visit them every October, 
hut because ofschool and other commitments, I hadn't 
seen them until that Fnday. 
We sat and reminisced for an hour or so. Uncle Bob 
marveled at my 6'4" frame ("I just can't believe it," he 
kept saying), and like a true Philadelphian, got in a 
couple ofshots at our beloved sports teams which had 
taken a collective nosedive in recent years. Even Mer­
cedes, somewhere in her graying head, seemed to 
remember me. 
It was an enjoyable visit, and as we departed, I could 
see tears in Uncle Bob's eyes-just like on moving day. 
Life had been hell tor him (and his wife) these last few 
years, battling his disability and, now, alcoholism. But, 
for one day, we had brought some happiness into his 
life. and this realization brought an all-too-rare tear to 
my eyes as well. 
Suddenly, the Senior formal and getting into grad school was ofsecondary importance: I don't even ·remember passing through that certain town in New 'crsey on the way home. In my mind, Icouldn't help hut 
'nk ofall the things and all the people I've neglected 
these past tew years in my pursuit ofsuccess and a 
career. 
After that one hour with l ncle Bob and Aunt Rita, I felt a lot better about myself I. too, have memories of Senior formal weekend that I will trea~ure. 
.\nd even ifl am not accepted to grad school at Massa­chusetts, it will have been well worth the trip. 
-----------------------------------------~~------~ 
The Observer Features Section 

mANCHA: the possible dteam 

done a good job ofpresenting the play, often a patchwork ofscenes and small musical pieces, as a cohesive flowing piece that is both 
well-paced and entertaining. Assis­
tant Director Dale Robinson has 
given the play, as well as her tine coaching, a number oft"ine moments 
that enliven it. The performance on Thursday night, while getting offto a slow start, provided the audience with many winy and brilliant bits that were amusing. along with scenes both moving and cathartic. 
The set design was both appropriate and functional, allowing actors freedom of movement as well as providing a pleasing background to the action and lighting. Costume de~igner Desiree Eartly did a superb job at outt1tting the cast in garb both simple and exciting to the eye. The technical tlow ofthe show was good, aside from the usual opening night mistakes. Overall, the crews should be recognized for their diligent work before. during, and after the performance; it was truly commend­able. 
The cast succeeded in telling the story and projecting that ever 
elusive quality, ensemble -the 
ability to work well together. The 
company helped smooth over the 
numerous transitions, along with 
keeping a sense of pace. The or­
chestra, conducted by Bob 
O'Donnell. was sensitive to the rhythm of the show, hut tended to drown out some of the lyrics with brass during the opening number. They were finesse itself. however, on the slower tunes, and shining on "Dulcinea". Several performers merit special notice; joe Rodriguez was a very versatile Cer­vantes/Quixote, hlenJing romantic and madman realistically. He plays Cervantes with authority, and throughout the performance proves 
to he a consistent and unifying force 
as well as a very adequate singer in 
his pivotal numbers. Catherine Lee as Aldonza/Dulcinea was a powerful presence, with good delivery and timing as well as a crystalline voice. 
Bill Boraczek was marvelous, with a good sense ofcomic timing and a strong vocal performance. Jeffrey Rrown and Frank Gabriele put in fine supporting roles, Jell' possessing a wonderful singing talent and Frank turning in a menacingly believable Pedro. OraJones made a memorable Antonia, irrepressible in ''I'm Only Thinking Of Him," once again ex­
hibiting her vocal power onstage. 
Finally, special credit must go to Joe :vtusumeci for his involvement in Man OfLa Mancha.ln addition to production, a small circus in itsdt~ Joe tackled set design and all the graphics involved in the show. 
La .'11ancha, as pre~ented by the ND Student Players, is a very pleasant evening of theater. It tlows smoothly and provides the viewer with ·an entertaining performance. The company struts and frets their hour on the boards with con­siderable grace and contldence for an amateur troupe. They convey narrative lucidly while musically harmonizing with proficiency, espe­cially during "The Golden Helmet Of\1ambrino." .'1-fan ofLa.'l1ancba is a dramatic experience for everyone, and vou still have two nights to see it. G~> now, before the dream die~. 
Friday, April22, 1983-page 11 
T
his weekend, as the An Tostal celebrations mark the offic1al beginning ofspring at Notre Dame, the hours will be filled with picnics, games, and contests. But there are going to be plenty of exciting things going on besides mud pillow tights and egg tosses, because the campus, as well as South Bend. promises to be chock full ofentertainment and performances in the arts. 
•THEATRE 
At Notre Dame the Student Players have demonstrated many times before that they are the next best thing to a professional theatre. Well. they've done it again. Tonight and tomorrow night the Players present their production of" Man ofLa Mancha." the story of the chivalrous idealist. Don Quixote, at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets areS-tat the door and S3.50 ifbought beforehand. 
The South Bend Civic Theatre also shows offits excellence Friday and Saturdav as it finishes off its run of"Morning's at Seven" at the Firehouse Theatre. The curtain rises at 8:30p.m. and tickets can be obtained by calling 233-0683 or 234-5696. 
And, not wanting to be outdone, the Theatre Company of Indiana University at South Bend continues its showing of"The Three Sis­ters," the story of"the daughters ofa dead Russian general." This per­formance will be held at IUSB's Northside Theatre at H: 15 p.m.. also on Friday and Saturday. 
• MUSIC 
As if to provide a soothing finish to the weekend's wild festivities, there will be several musical performances this Sunday, at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. First, at -1 p.m. there will be a faculty cello recital by Karen Buranskas in the Annenburg Auditorium ofthe Snite. At 8 p.m. the SMC Wind Ensemble will present a concert in SMC's Little Theatre. And finally, 8:15 Michael Hollman will make the walls ofSacred Heart Church resound With music in his organ graduate recital. 
In addition, the Indiana University Gospel Choir will present "The Voices of Hope," a vocal concert to be held at the Greater St. John the Baptist Church, at I 0 I N. Adams St. in South Bend. The concert begins at' p.m. and a donation is requested. 
• ARJ: 
Over in the Snite, Sunday will mark the fo.rmal Opening and Reception for the Ivan Mestrovic Exhibition, a survey of drawing~ and prints primarily from the family collection of the Russian artist. who did many ofthe statues now adorning the Notre Dame campu~. There will be some opening remarks from Father Ted at I:30 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium, and the collection will be exhibited in the Snite from 1 to-t p.m. 
• MOVIES 
Tonight the movie to be shown in the Engineering Auditorium hy the Student Union is the ever-popular" M* A *S*H" -at ~. 9: I 5, and 
II:30. And Saturday, "The Omen," also at 7 , 9: I 5, and I I :30 will send shivers up and down your spine. Both movies are, ofcourse, S I. At the Annenburg, the Friday Night Film Series presents "Lucia," a Cuban film, at 7:30 for S2. This weekend there is also an added at­traction, as the Notre Dame Ski Team is presenting the "Star Trek Blooper Show," a hilarious collection ofTV and movie boo-boos. It will be shown Sunday and Monday in the Engineering Auditorium at ~and 9 p.m. Tickets are S4 general, S3 with a Notre Dame !D. 
• THENAZZ 
Avery entertaining evening at the Nazz hegins tonight 9 p.m. with the "Magic and Comedy Night," a show put on by several talented NO students-magicians Gary O'Brien, Doug Maihafer, and Mike Weber, and comedians Dan Hanigan and Bruce Oakley. At I 0:30 the action continues with a concert by "Trinity," a student band. 
Saturday at 9 guitarist and singerJack Gallagher will play folk music, followed by another band, "No Bread," at I 0:30. 
• MISCELLANEOUS 
Ifvou are so thrilled with all the activities happening here on campus this weekend that you want more, the Michiana Arts & Sciences Council is sponsoring a Carnival for the Arts with various events to till Saturday and Sunday with fun. Some of the attractions include foreign food booths, the Notre Dame Jazz Band, a "60's Beach Partv" music, dance, and the All American Ice Cream Parlor. The carniv~l is at the Century Center at 120 S. St. Joseph Street, South Bend, and will go from 6 p.m. to I a.m. Friday and Saturday. For more information, call 284-9160. 
the ~eatuRes Oept. o~ 

IS holbmq a ffi€€tmq roR all StaH WRitERS anb all thOS€ Jnt€Q€St€b In WRitlny monbay, apRIL25 at 7 p.m. on th€ 3Rb ~lOOR 0~ l.al=oRtUn€ 
Friday, April 22, 1983 -page 12
!Sports Brie/§ 
j II\ I be IJ/Jsert't'r and I be ..ts.wciated Press 
.The NVA Golf Tournament is scheduled for 
9:30 a.m. on Sunday, April 24. Foursomes should call 6100 to tind out their tee-offtimes. Also, the NVA office announced that the grad school softball captains must turn in their team records. -The Ob­server 
Football Ticket Applications will be dis­
tributed to all returning Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students during the week ofApril 18-23 by the Athletic Ticket Office. For the first time, each student has an option ofchoosing between a 5-game season ticket package or a 4-game package which excludes the Oc­tober 29 Navy game, which falls at the end ofthe 1983-84 fall break. The price of the first package will be S37.50 while the latter will be $30.00. Saint Mary's prices are different. Ifyou have not received an application, go to the ticket office in the ACC. The deadline for returning the application is june 20, 1983. -The Observer 
Noel O'Sullivan's golf team travels to Purdue 
this weekend to compete in the Purdue Invitational. The squad hopes to improve on its 19th place finish in last weekend's Kepler Invitational. Frank Leyes and David Moorman continue to be the low scorers for the Irish. -The Observer 
An Tostal Ultimate Frisbeechampionships will 
be held on Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m. on Cartier Field. The location is different than what was listed in the booklet. -The Observer 
Farley's Finest Flag Football Team will 
face an all-star team from Saint Mary's tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. on Stepan field. The game features the Notre Dame intramural cham­pions from 1982, a 7-2 squad that defeated P.E. for the title last fall. The all-star team was selected by the women who participated in interhall football last fall. The game is the first of two for the Farley team. The next game is against P.E. in Notre Dame Stadium following the Blue-Gold game on April 30. -The Observer 
The Holy Crossvs. Dillonsoftball championship game will be played today on Holy Cross field at !'30. -The Ob­server 
Anyone interestedin trying out for the Irish Guard next fall should report to Green Field this afternoon at 4:30. -The Observer 
The Courtney tennis courts, except for the 
varsity courts, will be filled tomorrow because of the NVA tennis tourney. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's varsity teams are in action over the 
weekend. The tennis team hosts Kalamazoo College today, while the track squad hosts Siena Heights College tomorrow. Finally, on Sun­day, the softball team hosts Butler University. -The Obserr;er 
Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  
St.LOUIS  6  2  
Montreal  7  4  
Ph1ladelph1a  7  4  
Pittsburgh  6  5  
New York  4  6  
Ch1cago  2  10  
West  
Atlanta  9  3  
los Angeles  9  4  
Cinc1nnat1  9  6  
San D1ego  6  8  
San Franc1sco  4  10  
Houston  4  11  

Yesterday's Results Montreal 6. St Louis 5 Houston 4, Cinc1nnat1 3. 1 0 Innings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Esst 
w L Baltimore 8 5 Milwaukee 6 6 Toronto 6 6 Boston 6 7 New York 6 7 DetrOit 5 7 Cleveland 5 8 
West Oakland 9 6 KansasC1ty 6 4 Californ1a 9 6 Texas 8 6 Ch1cago 6 6 Minnesota 7 8 Seattle 6 11 
Yesterday's Results Seattle 2. Mmnesotd 0 Balt1more 3. Texas 2. 14 1nnmgs Califorma6. Oakland 2, 1st game California 6. Oakland 5. 2nd game 
Pet. 
750 636 .636 .545 400 .167 
.750 .692 .600 429 
.286 
.267 
Pet. .615 500 500 .462 .462 417 385 
.600 600 .600 .571 500 .467 .353 
GB 
5 5 1.5 3 6 
.5 
1.5 4 6 
6.5 
GB 
1.5 
1.5 2 2 
2.5 3 
.5 
1.5 2 4 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday.
Classifieds 
The name of the guy tram 1-isher who got gas tram me two Fndays ago. I owe you 
some bucks. Call John 3625 
NOTICES FOR SALE 
FOUND. ONE BASKETBALL AT BOOKSTORE COURTS CALL MARK at
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR USED, OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS8332 to 1dent1ty and cla1m.
$44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­
BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! 

ERASMUS BOOKS. 1027 E. WAYNE CALL(312)742-1142, EXT. 7316. 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY­JEFFERSON INTERSECTION. 
Typ1ng ALL KINDS 277-8534 a her 6pm FOR RENT 
House tor sale: Umvers1ty He1ghts. 3 TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
bedrooms. $12.000 total Immediate. Terms. 319-3228735. Pat 
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all

TYPING, Jackie Boggs. 684-8793. 
utilities 1ncluded June or Sept Call 319­
FOR SALE BY OWNER Near Notre EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO 
322-8735 Patty 
Dame. 2-bedroom bnck house, fenced TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES 
yard. Many extras. $37.000. Days: 232­CALL: 287-5162. 
6 bedroom house 4rent completly 
2031. ask for SylVIa Other t1mes· 268­
tum1sed at 806 n stl01us also secuity 
6134 or 239-7771. 
alarm system connected to pollee· for fur­
EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL YE-Vl FLEXIBLE HOURS. MONTHLY 
ther 1ntormat1on call1 362-7160 excellent 
cond1t1on pnce negotiable. 
PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS ON CAMPUS. BONUS BASED ON RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS 
Summer School? Apts. lor Rent near N.D. 
Ut11it1es Pd Less Gas ph 2720261
WELL. 800-526-0883 TICKETS 
SUMMER RENT-3 BDRM HOUSE.
TYPING: $.75/page Fast & accurate 
NEXT TO CAMPUS, CHEAP. CALL 8657 
Call Dan. 282-1680 HELP! Last member of good Catholic
OR8676JOHN 
fam11y (i.e. large) needs SEVEN gradua­Part t1me or Summer-Energy department 
tiOn 11ckets. W1ll pay $$$. Call M1ke at
··Faculty or Grad Students. 4 Bedroom
Sales. Energy Auditmg. L.S. Ayers 291· 
1t59after11 pm 7700 Ext. 2028 
House. lully furn1shed w1th washer/dryer N1ce! $400/month. 288-3109 
PLEASE HELPIII NEED GRADUATION Board1ng horses. 1 mi. from N.D Covered 
TICKETSIII Call Shern at 2965. Will pay arena. 277-5&28 (ring 12x) 
5-BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL. $400 
$
233-6779 
ATIN LOGAN CENTER VOLUN­HELP!!!!Need Graduation Tickets W1ll
TO GRAD STUDENT FOR FALL FUR­
TEERS: Rec thiS week on SUNDAY 1n· pay$$$$$$ Call M1ke 1764
NISHED. SPACIOUS 3-BEDROOM
stead of SatTa be held atHOLY CROSS HALL near the lake from 1:00 to 3:30PM. 
HOME. SW SIDE OF SO. BEND ON 
I desperately need t1ve TICKETS for Remember REG ON SUNDAY FOR 
BUS LIN. $400/MO . ALL UTILITIES IN­
GRADUATION EXERCISES Please call LOGAN CENTER!!!!! Please attend!!! 
CL. SMALL DEPOSIT. 287-3073 Ph1l at 277-1759 Thanks. 
TO SUBLET 1 BEDROOM APART­
TYPING -Professional and expenenced MENT. GREAT LOCATION ON RIVERSIDE DR COMPLETELY FUR­NISHED. FOR SUMMER MONTHS RENT NEGOTIABLE CALL SEAN 289­mall phases of typ1ng. Call Sue 277-3878 

[PERSONALS 
9309 
Clean furnished for 3-4 students. 931 N. Notre Dame Affer 6 p.m. 232-0535 
I 
COME Pt.AY QUARTERS AT ANTOS­TAL... MORE INFO COMING!!! 
LOST: One Pa1r of Bronze/Brown metal IF YOU HAVE $160 AND A WAY TO 
framed GLASSES. Lost m the VICimty ol NEW YORK. YOU CAN BE IN EUROPE
WANTED
STANFORD lobby aher the Mr. Stanford BY THE DAY AFTER TOMORROWContest on Fnday Apnl 8. They nave a FOR DETAILS. CALL AIRHITCH. TOLL· 
high sent1mental value bemg that Without WANTED· TYPING Expenenced FREE. (800) 372-1234 ,Jthem I cannot see!! If found please call or secretary des ~res any k1ndof typ1ng 1n her return them to J1m at 8708-07. 329-30 home $f 00 per page Call lmda at 674· IF YOU"RE INTO SPEED or enjoy ex­Stanford. (REWARD) 5094 erCISe 1n the spnng ""· s1gn up lor the AN TOSTAL CHARITY SK RUN this weekFOUND ON SOUTH QUAD. Cas1o llve­Anyone com1ng back on June 18th or 19th dunng dinner in the d1n1ng halls. ThiS 3.1­
lunc!IOn watch Has Initials on the back. from the Washmgton D.C. area? Want to mlle race will be held th1s Saturday. There Blue. w1th Sliver watchband. Call Marty at wok out a nde? Call Kathleen at 2946 1s a $3.00 reg1strat1on fee w1th allt022 proceeds go1ng lo S1ster Manta·s School. 
Going to Chicago this weekend? I need 
Medals tor 1st-61th men & women. ALLLOST: MAN'S WATCH AT MUD VOL­a nde Fnday morn1ng. If you·re headed FINISHERS ELIGIBLE FOR PRIZESLEYBALL COURTS GIVEN TO my way, call Tom at 8737 donated by Athletes Foot. 
SCOREKEEPER PLEASE CALL 8317 I NEED A RIDE!!! FINALS OVER EARLY LEAVING SOUTH BEND TO SEE ALLM1ssing bookbag. please return law AND GOING ACROSS RTS. 80 OR 84 TO AMERICA NEED ADVENTUROUSbooks and notes to law school, no ques­THE NORTHERN N.J.N Y C. METRO. 
TRAVELER TO SHARE EXPENSES 3·5 tions asked or$ reward ask for M1ke A. OR CONNECTICUT AREAS? 
MONTHS.LIVE CHEAP;MY CON­
DESPERATELY WANT AIDE LEAVING 
VERTED VAN. DEPARTING MAY. CALL LOST· PAIR OF LADY'S BROWN LEAT­LATE SAT 5/7 OR EARLY SUN 5/8. 
FOR INFO. 288·4255. ASK FOR BRIANHER GLOVES W/TAN FUR LINING. CALL PETE AT 6805. 
STTRAIGHTS ONLY PLEASE 
LOST ON FRIDAY BETWEEN BADIN HALL & ENGINEERING AUD. OR IN FEMALE NEEDS ROOMMATE FOR ENGINEERING AUD. CALL DARLENE SUMMER SUBLET IN CHICAGO. LIN­Foo-Foo-Town: Coma on out and play. 6980. COLN PRK APT GREAT VIEW OF LAKE Duck 
CALL4418 LOST/STOLEN FROM SOUTH DINING HALL. GRAY NEW BALANCE Wanted. Amp or P.A. syslem lor solo MARK FISCHER FOR UMOC! BOOKBAG. PLEASE RETURN gUitanst. Cal1277-2369 7-8pm ONLY NOTEBOOKS. THEY ARE VERY IM· INTERESTED IN WORKING WITH THE PORTANT. CALL 3132 • NO QUES­Wanted: S1ngle room on campus from FLOC STRIKE IN AUGUST NEAR TIONS ASKED. YOU CAN. EVEN KEEP May 2·12 approx. Will pay$$. Call 277-TOLEDO? Expenses pa1d. Call Peter or THE BOOKS. 2369 7-8pm ONLY Kev1n 283-3125 

Joan Rivers says that Tom Marshalek Ia so ugly that doctors had to Scotch­guard his lace because II! 1atea threw uponH sooften. People,(· ;:guyis ugly; he's had a hard life. Why don't you put a little happinesss in his decrepitlife. VOTE TOM MARSHALEK-UMOC 1983 
TOM MARSHALEK • UGLIEST CAT ON CAMPUS 
Mike Heineman IS the Ugly Man On Campus. One look (If you can stand 1!) w111 conv1ce you. Blah! lck! Hes UGLY Vote M1ke Hememan for UMOC. He"ll feel better about h1mself 
LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS If you want to send a spec1al .. Thanks for com1ng to VISit me" to your hi stb, or even 1f your Ill s1b didn't come to VISit and you would like to send a little memento to h1m, t·shirts w1ll be on sale lor a reduced pnce of $4.00 at the STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. 1st floor LaFortune. LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS 
GUESS WHAT? YOU CAN BUY 3 LIL SIBS T-SHIRTS FOR $10 00. IF YOU BUY THEM SEPARATELY, THEY COST $4 00 EACH!! 
JJB U A AQT JMG 
CONN CLUB HAPPY HOUR!! 
FREE BEER!!! 
Everyone tram Conn. welcome. Fnday. 
Apnl 22 1n Lyons basement. 4-7pm 
Sponsored by the NO Alumni Club of 
Connect1cut (CT 10 requested.) 
Mark. 
Last n1ghrs party was a small gesture 
from everyone who WIShes you nothtng 
but the best. GOOD LUCK 
Tne4DGang 
. _, PANDORA'S WILL BUY YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS MON.-THURS. 1:OD-4:00. DON'T FORGET OUR HAPPY HOUR EVERY FRIDAY FROM 3:00--6:00. YOU'LL SAVE 50/ ON ALL OUR USED BOOKS PLUS A SPECIAL SAVINGS ON ALL NEW BOOKS. STOP INI 937 SO. BEND AVE. 
MECHANICS is not to be TRUSSed Ill 
LOST blue phys1ology notebook 4/18 nght-leh s1de ot South. Conta1ns reg1stra­t1on matenal. REWARD 3072 
1982 NO GRAD seeks hnanc1al ass1s· tance tor Dental School (loans or any other a1d) excellent tax break. (312) 595­0215 59 Ham11ton St Bensenville. 111601 Ot 
Yes. young ladles. today 1s a very spec1al 
day 
ALEX SZILVAS 
IS 2, today. He IS destrous of extraordi­
nary birthday fun Only beaut1lul. Intel­
ligent. Accounting mators from Lyons 
need apply to help thiS lustful God toward 
h1sgoal 
Chegon Cheg Tomorrow 
RUSH STREET may never be the same after ton1ght! 
;.~.· ....... 
SENIORS... MULDOON'S!! 
Check out Rush Street one more t1me before you graduate' $12 covers fr«nsporta!IOn. beer both ways to Ch1cago. Bus leaves Wed. evemng, Apnl 27 Call Paula x3631 tor reservations A sentor month event.. don't m1ss tt! 
APRIL 23rd: HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARY KOSIDOWSKI AND WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE! Due to some un­usual comc1dence m the cosmos. Mary and Will share the same B-days. Thh1s IS a special B-day tor both-Will w111 be 419 and Mary w1ll be 21 
The birthday celebration w111 beg1n tomght around m1dn1ght at Semor Bar All are JnVJfed to be apart of this momentous occas1on Mary Will be available 1ns1de tor autographs-Will w111 not be 
HAPPY 21ST B-DAY MARY Ill 
... 
Kat1e&Mary· 3 Weeks !rom now well be at THE LOON CAFE!! Hang on! Mo 
JEFF FROM HAMBURG YOU'RE SUCH A SWEETIE!" 
TO ALL OF JANET M S FRIENDS THAT I MET THIS PAST WEEKEND THANK YOU FOR MAKING MY BRIEF STAY MEMORABLE & ENJOYABLE GOOD LUCK & GOD BLESS TO ALL OF YOU. KATIE 
Do N.D women really date pnmates? Come to the Lyons lormal and see 
We Slam No Dunks!!! YES AMERICA THE TIME HAS COME II 
WSND vs. THE OBSERVER!! 
WITHOUT QUESTION THE GAME OF THE YEAR!!' IF YOU WANT TO SEE SPIRT/TED HOOPS ACTION BE AT THE ACC AT 2:30 SATURDAY. YOU'D BET­TER NOT MISS IT 
WSND -WE'RE FULL OF SUPRISES, BECAUSE WE SLAM NO DUNKS. 
POPS POPS .POPS Happy B1rthday BIG AL. the pnde of Baltimore Love, your sons. 
Dear Dul (a.k.a. Ne11. Pal. Dad. QT. etc) You re such a doll. You know 1fs true. This summer w1thou1 you, fll be blue From who else could I get h apprec1a­
t1onundue? Just remember I Sincerely mean thiS­Thanks tor be1ng you! Love ya. JJB P S All nght. so rm not a poet! Sorry! 
NO TOGA NO TOGA NO TOGA NO TOGA NO TOGA NO TOGA 
NO TOGA NO TOGA NO TOGA NO TOGA NO TOGA NO TOGA 
Due to the efforts of Black Man and Jim Buddy ton1ght"s meet1ng of the TOGA club has been postponed 1111 J1m and Matt can order enough togas for everyone. They wouldn"t want anyone to feel out ot place. Thanks guys. 
,.. ,-.. 
"' 
WATCH THE SKIES WATCH THE SKIES WATCH THE SKIES WATCH THE SKIES WATCH THE SKIES SATURDAY AT THE MUD PITS 
WATCH THE SKIES SATURDAY 1 15 
AT THE CHARIOT RACES. WATCH THE 
SKIES 
WATCH THE SKIES 
WATCH THE SKIES 
WATCH THE SKIES 
WATCH THE SKIES SATUDAY AFTERNOON AT RACE TIME ' 
T EILEEN MURPHY HAPPY 22nd I hope your birthday IS as geat as m1ne was· be­cause of you! In fact you.have been my joy and happiness lately. Your are one spec1al peson. 
As Demont would say ·You·re my baby· As your Mother would say-wh1ch reflects my sent1ments ··raanks Elleeen.. God bless and have a great weekend. 
MJC 
THE NARD --LARRY NARDOLILLO -­UMOC ·t PITY THE MAN UGLIER THAN ME"S 
•..but FAGAN stiH hates me ... 
Need booze money! Am selling Yahama 
6-stnng acoustiC gUitar Ex.cond $175call 
Gregat3003 
Al HUNT AL HUNT 
AL HUNT AL HUNT AL HUNT IS 19 g"ls. call h1m at 3335 
test 
BRIGANTI BRIGANTI JACK JACK JACK BRIGANTI JACK BRIGANTI UMOC UMOC THE ONLY CHOICE EVEN HIS MOTHER STANDS HIM UP LET HIM WIN FOR ONCE-UMOC UMOC 
ULTIMATE FRISBEE CHAMPIONSHIP Sunday Apnl24 300PM Cart1er F1eld 
PING PONG BALLS! PING PONG 
BALLS! Watch the sk1es at the mudp1ts on Satur· day. It Will be raomng p1ng pong balls Bearers w1th spec1ally marked p1ng pong balls Will be ent1tled to a tree nde on the An T ostel elephant. 
Like to take shots??? The Observer 1s 1ook1ng tor photog­raphers tor next years staff Requ~re­ments a 35 mm camera, an 1nterest m photojournalism and sports photojour­nalism. and some spare t1me Interested? Contact Scott at 239-5303. 
-------------------------"""'11 
The Observer Friday, April22, 1983-page 13 
-----~­
Rugby wins, ND softball doesn't 
Dedication and motivation are two key factors that can mean success in any team effort. Sometimes, however, dedication and motivation are not enough as the team can encounter a few obstacles which can lead to disappointments. This has been the case with many of the club sports at Notre Dame. However, these set­backs have not kept the athletes from trying hard to give the school a good name. 
RUGBY -Last weekend's weather was not a setback for the Notre Dame Rugby te~:m as the Irish defeated a team from Eastern Illinois University in two out ofthree games. The A and B teams defeated Eastern Illinois 26-8, and 12-9 while the C team lost its game 3-12. 
Poor weather and field conditions were cited as the main reasons for the team's. losses earlier this season. "This weekend, the weather was great," reflected John Foley. "The field was solid and we were running through our opponents at will. I hope to do the same next weekend." 
John Reid scored two tries for the A team, while 
teammates Mike Butler and John Pearl scored one try 
apiece. Steve Snyder scored one try and three conver­
sions. Clark Keough was named as an outstanding 
player on the B team for his contributions to the team 
last weekend. Andy Deem was named as an outstanding 
player for the C team. 
This weekend, the Irish will face a tough team from 
Marquette. "They're a tough team, but the game will be 
more controlled which will be to our advantage," com­
mented Foley. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER -Last weekend, the Notre Dame women's soccer team opened its season on a positive note by defeating Kalamazoo College, 2-0. 
"This is a great start for us because they're varsity status and we're not," said team captain Susan Gordon. 
Letty Valdes and Lindy Webster scored the two goals for the Irish, while Angela Eggleston was named as the outstanding defensive player. 
"The purpose of our spring .season is to see how we will look in the fall and to develop skills," explained club president Tracy Walters. 
This weekend the soccer club will close its spring season as it hosts five teams in its second annual tourna­ment. The Irish will be competing against teams from Kalamazoo College, Wheaton College, Saint Mary's Col­lege, Northwestern University, and Marquette Univer­sity. 
"Last year, we lost in the final round to Northwestern, 
Mary Sieger 
Sports Writer 
Club Corner 

but this year, I think we have a good shot ofwinning it," 
commented Walters. The first game of the tournament 
will begin at 10:30 on Saturday and play will continue 
throughout the day. 
SOFTBALL -The Notre Dame women's softball 
team dropped its sixth consecutive game last night after 
losing to Valparaiso University 2-5 and 7-9. Earlier in the 
week, the Irish lost to Indiana 4-8, 7-8 and later to 
Purdue 2-8 and 1-6. This weekend's action gives the 
Irish an 0-6 record this season. 
"I think the games were a lot closer than the scores indicate," said Mara Georges. "We made a lot of mental errors and we're not working together·as a team." 
Catchers Carol Zanca and Mary Arn have contributed greatly to the team this season. "We have lots of inex­perienced pitchers and they've really helped to get it together," observedJoanne Swiecak. 
Today's game against IUSB was cancelled but the Irish hope to reschedule a game against Saint Mary's College for this afternoon. The game against the Belles was cancelled in the fourth inning with the Irish leading the Belles 14-9 due to rain. 
"There's a big rivalry between the two schools," com­mented Georges. "Each team tries to psych each other out and the two teams don't get along that well." 
Georges believes the Irish will be prepared for the Belles and that the Irish "will do well against Saint Mary's." 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL -Earlier this week, the Notre Dame men's volleyball team closed it's season by drop­ping three games 4-15, 11-15, and 11-15 to IUPU-Fort Wayne. The Irish finished their remarkable season with a 55-20 record. 
Club President Clark Gibson commended Barry Smith for his performance in last evening's game. "He spiked well and went at it harder than most. 
"We had a good shot and a great year. We earned respect from teams throughout the Midwest. After four years, it was enjoyable to make a club sport more than a club sport. People played hard for four years and it paid off in the end." 

The Observer/john Wachter 
Bob Trocchi (2) scored two goals and bad five assists yesterday but to no avail as the lacrosse team Jropped a 22-16 game to Wooster College. 
NVA, An Tostal 
MEN'S OPEN RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS 
All matches must be played by today. Call in rosult as soon as possible (239-6100) to find out next op­ponent and to facilitate the completion of the tourna­ment. If you do not roport scores, you will be dropped from the tournament. 
Panchal (1 940) v. McCabe (233-6068) 
Sch1erl v. W1nner of Panchal-McCabe 
S1mpson (3336) v. Gordon (6303) 
C1ndnc v. W1nner of S1mpson-Gordon 
Richardson (233-6031) v. Marks (3543) 
Runger ( 1 073) v. Purk ( 1 152) 
Brown (3261) v. Albo (234-5414) 
Meak1n (6863) v. Domus (3185) 
Lachance (8179) v. Brenton (3103) 
MIXED DOUBLES Third Round Action 
Deadline for play Is April 26, 1983. Failure to play or report scores by the deadline wiU constitute a forfeit and force withdrawal from tournament. · 
Asan-Norns (277-0607) v. O'Leary-Roberts (239­5106) Hanson-Bourja1ly (1770) v Hatfield-Walsh (8085) Runger-Schm1d (1073) v. Ponsar-Durette (8838) Derengosk1·Dill v. to be announced 
AN TOSTAL GOLF TOURNAMENT Two-Man Scramble Resuns 
1 .) Dave Delahanty and Steve Watson 2.) J1m Tillar and Jay F1ns1er 
Hoos1er Award (shortest dnve on f~rst hotei -Tom Jones 
Winners can pick up their trophies this afternoon in the An T ostal office. 


The Gap at the University Park Mall is having a sale just for you! Present your Notre Dame or St. Mary's (student or faculty) I.D. and receive $5.00 OFF any regular price purchase over $25.00!!! Coupon iS good Saturday &Sunday, April 23 &24. couponisrequiredtorpurchase. 
GAP Jeans 13.98 P----------------~ 
GAP Cords 14.98 GUYS I COUPON I 
Jackets ............ 20°/o OFF I $5.00 OFF I
GAP Superblue Jeans 16.98 
Banded Collar Shirts ..... 13.98 
Iany regular price purchase 1 Canvas Casuals .... 16.98·19.98 1 over $25.00. I
GALS 
Durango Jeans . ......... 19.98 
Spring Casuals . ........ . 16.99 
Long sleeve button down collars ~----------------~ 
Stonewashed Jeans. 16.99 
. .. 9.99 
Misses Piped Pants .. 16.99 
Cotton & Denim Skirts .... 
-
Located next to Sears
... 14.98-17.98 
----------~--------~--­
The Observer Sports Extra-The Elite Eight Friday, April22, 1983-page 14 
Over a decade of 'Store lore 
Memories ... and the manhole cover live at 'Athletic and Publication Center' 
By RICH O'CONNOR 
Associate Bookstore Commissioner 
Sunday afternoon, another edition of Bookstore Bas­ketball will be relegated to history. From an idea of An Tostal Chairman Fritz Hoefer that led to a 53-team tournament in .1972 run by Vince Meconi, Bookstore has grown into the world's largest basketball tourna­ment under Dave Dziedzic. 
The champion in that first year was "The Family." Current assistant basketball coaches Gary Brokaw and John Shumate teamed up with the "Iceman," Dwight Clay, Pete Crotty and Cliff Brown, a quarterback during the Parseghian era. 
Torrential downpours during the semifinal round that year forced the finals into the Rock where Shumate and Co. defeated Hawks and Geese 21-12. 
Rule changes to increase the tournaments popularity by spreading the talent around limited the teams to three varsity football players. Only one varsity basket­ball player was allowed per team, and a game would never again be played indoors. 
The 1973 version grew to I05 teams and games were now played on the courts of Lyons and Stepan. The "31 Club," led by former Irish quanerback Tom Clements and campus star Mike "Hondo" Bonifer took the first of their two crowns, defeating The Marksmen behind "The Athletic and Publication Center." 
By 1976, the tournament expanded to 256 teams un­der the auspices of Tim "Bone" Bourret, now an assis­tant sports information director at Clemson. 
Another Digger Phelps product, Dave Batton teamed up with footballer John Dubenetzky to give TILCS III a 22-20 overtime victory over hoopster Bill Paterno's Average White Team. 
The next year's final was war. TILCS IV faced Paterno's A.W.T. again, but Batton and Dubenetzky were able to hold on for the 21-17 win before 3,000 people. The magnitude of the crowd forced the tourna­ment to move the '78 final behind the ACC. Joe Mon­tana, the "Comeback Kid," hit six buckets as Batton pulled in his second MVP award. 
Over a four-year span Batton-led teams compiled an amazing 27-2 record including a 22-game unbeaten string with TILCS Ill through V. 
But, it was 1978 when Bookstore started to come of age. 
Sports Illustrated featured the tournament in its Ken­tucky Derby issue. The article's title, "Look Out For the Manhole Cover," has remained Bookstore's trademark to this day. 
Leo's Last, led by Jeff Carpenter, Rusty Lisch, and Commissioner Leo Latz defeated Chumps Too after. TILCS V was upset in the semi-finals. Phelps scouted the t· •urnament and invited Kevin Hawkins, a first-team All­Bookstore playr to join the varsity team. 
The NCAA's long and oft-misplaced enforcement arm reached out to Bookstore in I979. After an inquiry by Dave Gavitt, now commissioner of the East Con­
·' 
-<elly Tripucka 
-
'he Reclassified 'Nads 
~hampions, Bookstore X, 1981 
ference, who wanted to start a Bookstore-like tourna­ment at Providence College, the powers that be in Shawnee Mission, Kans., ruled that college basketball players with eligibility remaining could not participate. Sports Illustrated published Latz's protest, but the NCAA held firm. 
Lisch and Tom Sudcamp, an associate professor of mathematics, led two more versions of the Chumps to the championship in '79 and '80. The 1979 tourney was expanded to 320 teams, while jumping to 384 teams in 1980 under Rob t Simari. 
1981 was a special year for Bookstore -its IOth an­niversary. The Founding Fathers, Hoefer, Meconi, Bour­ret, and Latz, met the new breed, Simari, Frank LaGrotta, Skip Desjardin, Brian Reimer, and the Bookstore God­desses -Anne Fink and Marybeth Sterling. 
It was a time to sit and listen, and learn. 
In 1981 at the Stepan Courts, TPS -featuring Stacey Toran, Greg Bell and Mansel Carter with Tim Collins and Duane Dickens jammed their way into the finals. 
But the main cause of shaking backboards and bent rims that year ran into The Reclassified 'Nads, led by Kelly Tripucka. Reclassified featured Ken "Stinky" Stack, "Sleepy" Joe Greuber, and Bo Ellis. Tripucka put on a show, hitting 14 of 2 3 shots to lead his team to the 22-20 overtime win. 
It was a fitting end to a great day for Bookstore Bas­ketball. Earlier, in an all-star reunion game, Bob Keenehan of WEBB's End, now WEBB's Encore, Kevin Hawkins, Rusty Lisch, Gary Brokaw, and Fritz Hoefer defeated Bill Hanzlik, Tom Sudcamp, Dan Short, Dave Marcel, and Rob Simari 21-1 7. It was the first Bookstore game f!;)r the tourney's founder, Hoefer. 
Last year saw the tournament committee institute an annual Hall of Fame game to open the tournament. Pit­ting a top seed against a team chosen at random. The inaugural featured TPS Again against Its Only Emotion­al. TPS opened up an II-I lead en route to a 21-5 win. 
The next day, as the tourney was shifting into high gear, seven inches ofsnow fell. By the end of the day it was impossible to dribble, but all forty games were played outdoors. It was a year for the unusual. There was the first ever shutout and a scoring record. Rob Simari scored 18 points in a losing cause as hb team, Sam Gilbert's Free Clinic lost to That's Right We'z Bad, and We Wanted To Be Five Guys Named Moe But Some­body Got There First was shut out byJoe Spunk and the Pearl Necklaces. 
Full House emerged as the champions last year as John Schaefer Tony Hunter, Greg Williamson, Dave Duerson and Bill Bonde defeated Eddie O'Rourke and the Traveling Stragglers, 21-1 7. Bonde missed the semi­final because of a lacrosse game and freshman Tom Murphy subbed. Full House showed true Bookstore spirit by playing an unknown oflimited ability. Murphy was the crowd favorite despite a lackluster perfor­mance. 
O'Rourke was led by Irish walk-on Marc Kelly, Assis­tant Coach Jim Baron, team statistician Ed Hjerpe, Tim Koegel, and Buster Lopes. 
In the past three years, the tourna­ment has produced many memories. Gerry Faust's first game, and his I­for-18 shooting performance that earned him the Hoosier award. Faust's game this season With the Esophagus Constrictors was a Bookstore classic. The group of throats put on a show, with 40-foot shots after calculating wind drag, be­tween study breaks and being spurred on by "unusual" cheer­leaders. 
There was the Hall of Fame Game with the Even Worse Off losing to Love and the' Shooting Stars after receiving a t~am hlessiug from Father Heshurgh. The: Even Worse Off arrived at the: "Athletic and Publication Center" in a rented limo and used a portable trampoline to jam during pre-game warmups. 
Bookstore has grown up. With Louise Mudd and Anne lianson r·un­ning North and South Quad games respectively, and Suzanne l.a Croix helping where needed, Bookstore XII has created more media atten­tion as UPI ran a tournament storr nationally, and Metrosports is plan­ning to run a feature during halftime of one of next years football telecasts. 
The history of Bookstore is il­lustrious, and Number XII is definitely living up to its past. 

Bill Varner 
Double Decker Oreo Cookie 
continued from page 20 
ment's leading scorer thus far, averaging 8.S per contest. Andree's 69-percent shooting percentage indicates that the 6-10 Irish center has stayed close to the hoop. Former Irish All-American defensive tackle Scott Zettek lends a hand underneath. 
4) US -Another excellent shooting team, US l}as made 55 per­cent of its shots. The scoring is evenly distributed among all five players.Junior Barry Fay has scored 27, but Paul DeAngelis and Chris Schneider get hot frequently. Known for their excellent team play, US won its sectional final game by an amazing 21-3 score. US versus John Shoe and the Sneakers might be best game on tap tonight. 
5) Macri's Preferred Stock -One of two Law School teams left in the tournament, Macri's Preferred Stock relies heavily on Joe Sweeney and Don Strumillo (second team All-Bookstore last year) for its point production. Larry Cuculic shot 24-of-34 ( 71 percent) in the first six rounds. Macri's plays Double Decker Oreo in tonight's 
other top attraction. 
1979 -w<Ghurnps Three 21, The Butchers 19 
1980 .....,.Def~5d'ing Chumps 21, Strappamasquon andthe Combat Wombats 11 
-1981 ~;Re91asslfied 'Nads 22, TPS 20 
;y;-. ...••.,,·· •'4'' 
r.tcldte Q]1.ourke and the 
7 
,------­
The Observer Sports Extra -The Elite Eight Friday, April22, 1983 -page 15 

Tim Andree 
Bad to the Bone 
• • Eight
• 
6) John Shoe and the Sneakers -Former Notre Dame star John Shumate, who played with Buffalo and Cleveland in the NBA, leads this team. Shumate ha~ shot 76 percent thus far. Like Andree, most of his shots have come close to the basket. At 6-11, Shumate is the most likely to benefit from the Bookstore rule which allows of­fensive goaltending. Teammate Dr. Gene Halston leads the squad with six points a game. 
7) S.W.C. -The other Law School entry, this team features for­mer Notre Dame varsity player Tim Healy. Healy averages five points a game, but most of this team's ~coring comes underneath from Pat Kramer ( 35 points) and Tom Antonini ( 31 points). 
8) Tequila White Lightning -This entry has advance to the Elite Eight despite only 39 percent team shooting. Mike Conlin ( 32 points) and Brian Enright ( 29 points) lead the team in scoring. Con­lin is the only one over 50 percent for the tournament. 
So there you have them, the Elite Eight. From the way this tourna­ment has gone so far, any of these eight can go all the way. Enjoy. 
As Chapter XII unfolds • • •• 
Bookstore '83 sees slams, shooters. 

4123 ACC 6:00 4124 ACC 1:30 John Shoe... 
... 
:r 
"' 
Even-less... Cash.. 
and some comedy 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
!.ports Writer 
The start was somewhat auspicious. Nice weather was paired with a basketball game that could have doubled as situation comedy. 
Bookstore Basketball, unofficially the world's largest basketball tournament, opened its 12th edition with a very entertaining Hall of Fame Game matching the seeded Love and the Shooting Stars and the Even Worse Oft: 
Probably, few people who were at the game remem· ber the score, which, by the way, was 21·7 in favor of Love and the Shooting Stars. Instead, they remember the crazy antics of the Even Worse Off team. 
First, the Even Worse Off arrived for the game in a blue limousine. Then they put on a dunking exhibition with the help ofa small, borrowed trampoline. 
And no one will forget the impromptu appearance of 
Father Theodore Hesburgh to bless the Even Worse Olf 
team in Latin. 
The Even Worse Offall the help they could get in the game, though, as they were drubbed. Undaunted, the Even Worse Off still held a champagne celebration af­terward. 
Neither will anyone forget the various garb that 
teams showed up to play their games in. There were 
teams that played in boxer shorts, colorful uniforms, 
and even one person who played in his bare feet on the 
asphalt. 
Five Screams From the Loft, composed of Notre 
Dame Chapel Choir members, showed up for their 
game with Two Fourth Generation Domers wearing 
their white choir robes and singing from their hymnals. 
It was oflittle use, though, as Five Screams was deteated 
21·2 in one ofthe tournament's worst blow outs. 
There were also a number of outstanding shooting 
performances thorughout the tournament. Kevin Grif­
fith of Play At Your Own Risk hit 11 of 11 shots in his 
team's third-round win over Team 136 to set a new un­
official Bookstore record for Best Shooting Percentage 
-Most Shots. 
Paul DeAngelis made 11 of 14 shots to lead seventh· 
seeded US over 1Oth-seeded Brick Throwers, 24-22, in 
what was probably the tournament's hardest-fought 
game. 
Freshman Willie Bostick of Five Alternatives to Dave 
Popson was a hot shooter throughout the tournament, 
but it was his 1 +for-I.., shooting in his team's tlrst game 
that brought attention to him. 
Tim Andree pumped in 1-t of 16 in addition to gather· 
ing seven rebounds to lead his team, third-seeded Bad 
to the Bone, to a second-round victory over Four 
Tylenols and a Cyanide. 
Dillon Hall senior John Rudser showed the other ex· 
treme in shooting, managing only 1-for-29 shooting as 
his team, Smokin' Joe's Chicago Knockers, tell from the 
tournament in t1rst round action. 
"1 was hot, and they knew it," said Rudser after the 
game. 
US 
4/20 BK 10 4: 
4122 BK 10 S.uu,.__ __B_ri_ck_._.. 
.. but not Paxson 
The top seed, Double Decker Oreo Cookie shot an outstanding 21-for·.'\S in each of its tirst two games. causing optimism that they might attain the highest team shooting percentage in Bookstore history. That high shooting percentage, however, has fallen off con­siderably since those tlrst two games. 
Nevertheless, led by Irish v;rsity player Bill Varner, Double Decker has continued to entertain crowds with dunking ex~ihiti~ns before and during each of their 
games. 
And then there was the remarkable 21-for-26 team shooting by US as they rolled over Three Beers and Two Grape Nehis Please, 21-3, in just 1-i minutes, and in tlfth· 
round action at that. 
S.P.O.S., spurred by Pat O'Malley's 2-19 shooting. has 
the worst team shooting percentage in a game for the 
tournament. In their tlrst round game, which they lost 
25-23 to Flynn's Fabulous Five, S.P.O.S. could manage 
only 23 of their astronomical I07 shots. 
The throats came out one night to play Gerry Faust's 
team, Old Men On The Block, in another highly en­
tertaining game. 
The Esophagus Constrictors.. a group of Howard Hall 
intellectuals, showed up tor the game in white dress 
shirts, ties and shorts. They even brought their hooks 
with them, so as to not lose any valuable study time. 
The Constrictors employed a variety of defenses to 
try to stop a very potent Gerry Faust. Among these were 
the "Gandhi D," the "semi-permeable membrane 
defense," and a zone defense that had one Constrictor 
in each corner of the court and one at center court. 
All of these of defenses were of little use, though, as Old Men came out on top by a 21-7 count. For Gerry Faust, it was his tlrst Bookstore win in three attempts. 
Even the most intellectual ofshotmaking techniques were not enou_gh for the Constrictors. They did make one shot, however, after tlguring out what its trajectory should be betorehand on their trusty calculators. 
This technique wa~ obviously beyond the grasp of 
Faust, as he also tried it and missed his shot. 
The Constrictors promise to study up all year for a 
return appearance in Bookstore XIII. 
Another person who undoubtedly will be hack for 
next vear's tournament is Father Edward "Monk" Mal­
loy, ~ho made his eleventh tournament appearance in 
Bookstore's twelve-year history. 
Rich Hunter also made a three-game appearance and 
sparked his team, Rich Hunter and the Polish Nationals, 
to two impressive victories with valiant team leader· 
ship and an occasional made prayer shot. 
Bookstore XII also had its share <if injuries. There was 
a broken wrist, a separated shoulder, a broken collar 
bone, a broken rib, a couple ankle hreakss, along with 
assorted stitches. 
One team, Bigger, Better ... was so devastated by in­
jury right before their sixth-round game that they 
forced to go into the crowd tor players in trying to fill 
three suddenly vacant spots. 
Less than ideal weather conditions have plagued 
much ofthe tournament. There was one nice day, then a .... 
series of days of wind and rain. That was followed by 
two days ofnear-freezing temperatures marked by chill· 
ing winds. Then, t<>r Wednesday's sixth round, there 
was tlnally, a nice day. 
The weather forecast tor this weekend's champion· 
ship game calls, ofcourse, for thunderstorms. 
On a sad note, the tournament staffwas forced to dis· 
qualit)· three teams because they had used an ineligible 
player. One of those ineligible players, a freshman, 
denied that he was ineligihle during the game and has 
since been barred trom future Bookstore tournaments. 
And then there is the one player who has not played 
in the tournamt nt but who almost everyone wishes 
would -John Paxson. It seems that Paxson wanted to 
play with a bunch of his friends on a team called The 
Secret of Macbeth. 
Macbeth is, if vou didn't know, Paxson's middle 
name. He wanted t~ play in one game to say that he had 
played hut would be unable to play until the third 
round because he would be in Hawaii playing in the 
Pizza Hut Classic. 
When The Secret of Macbeth lost its first round game, 
21-17, the chances of Paxson's playing were greatly 
dashed. He did not want to join a team in the later 
rounds, when the action is much more physical, and 
risk losing a potentially lucrative pro contract by being 
injured. 
Throughout all of this, Paxson kept his plans secret, 
not wanting a thousand people show up just to watch 
John Paxson play basketball because that's the type of 
guy Paxson is. 
Now it looks like Paxson will not play in the tourna­
ment at all, and that is a shame. 
But Bookstore XII promises to end with a flourish 
anyway, as the Elite Eight try for the championship. The 
final game b Sunday at I p.m., behind the ACC. 
j 

-------------------·------­
The Observer Friday, April22, 1983-page 16 

continuedfrom page 20 
also serve as co-captain along with 
teammate Stacey Toran. 
Kiel is also showing more con­
fidence in himself and Hudson feels 
that there are two reasons. 
"The offense is the same and so is 
his coach," he says. "It's the first time 
he's had the same coach for ·two 
years in a row." 
Kiel's style combines the ability to 
throw on the move with good speed 
and a strong arm. Cincinnati Bengal 
quarterback, Ken Anderson, who 
was at Notre Dame recently and 
spent some time with the quarter­
backs, was impressed by Kiel's 
physical ability. 
The use of the rollout proved suc­cessful last year for the Irish offense as it made good use ofKid's running ability. Kicl who enjoys both run­ning and throwing sees another value in the rollout. "It's good be­cause 1 have the option to run or throw,"he says. "It also puts pressure on the defense, because they don't know if I'm going to run or throw." 
If the 6-1, 199-pound Kiel is as successful next year as he was last 
•Old 
fashioned Home Cooked Family Style Dinners 

•Also 
Steaks, Prime Rib, and Seafoods 

•Largest 
salad bar in town 

•75 
item Saturday brunch (served 8:00am-2:oopm) 

•Reservations 
accepted tor large or small groups 

•15 
minutes from Notre Dame 

•850 
seats, lots of food and good service From Notre Dame, south on Eddy Street (about 10 minutes) to Jefferson, 


turn left (East) 5 minutes. Look for the castle! 
.M.-':1 P.M. • Saturday 8 A.M.-9 P.M. Closed Sundays -Except Easter, Mother's Day & Father's Day 1202 E. Jefferson Blvd. • Mishawaka. Indiana 255-8040 
An T~st~l 
n.J.-Rm.c 
Frivolous Friday on Sou~h Quad 
• 12:15 Jello To11 • 12:80 Maure11 R.ace 
• 
12:45 :Z&g TOll • 1:00 Keg T011 

• 
1:80 Treasure Hunt 

• 
1:45 Donut :z,ung 

• 
2:00 Serf Aucnon 

• 
2:80 Licorice :Bating 

• 
2:45 Tire R.ollln& 

• 
8:00 Bucket Brigade 

• 
8:15 Dating Game 


• 9:00 RoaO Rally • l0:00 Olllffi t£€1llnG 
e 10:00 antostaiChallotySkRun • 4:30 ~~~osl!€€ c;otr OP€n 
• 10:00 kot€ ~lyon<; 
e 4:40 lnt€1ltUI\€
• 10:30 ossu.ctECoullS€ 
Wat€11 l)olo ronals 
• 1 I :30 PICniC <;amES 
-Chance to Dance Tonight! With HEATWAVE and  #, ,,,  
The Kinetics  ,'  
Tickets $3 at Stepan  ,'  

~ ,,' 
~,/ sunnv
,
,,#
..
,. 
• Frolic at Recess Saturday Night, AND after they clean up the Mess, Enjoy THE ~LUES BROTHERS at midnight 
• 3:30 ~laG (:ootsall Ch.vnpoonsh1p 
SatuRbay 
• 9:45 muoVoll€yBall S€m•·rmals 
• 1:00 ChaRlot PROC€SSIOn anORac€ 
• 
I :30 muo PillOW rl4hts e I :4'5 Wh€€lBJ.RROW Rae€ 

• 
2:00 VOII€YBJ.II ~mals • 2:15 muo tu4o~wan 



• • . Passers 
year, he will put his name in the 
Notre Dame record book. His 118 
completions in 219 attempts last 
year (for I,273 yards) leaves leaves 
him only 72 completions away from 
becoming Notre Dame's all-time 
leader in that category. 
Stepping into the number two position is junior Scott Grooms. Af­ter spending the spring semester of 1982 at Miami of Ohio, Grooms returned to Notre Dame in the fall and was required to sit out the entire 1982 season. Grooms, a 6-2, 205­pounder, gained some practice time in the fall by working as the Irish prep team quarterback. 
"You can see in his play that he's been away, but he's doing a good job," says Hudson. "He has excellent mechanics and good leadership abilities. He just needs to get a little, stronger and put a little more zip on the ball." 
So that he can do this, Hudson is 
helping him to change his throwing 
motion. 
"My primary objective is to get to 
the point of throwing a good, consis­
tent ball," says Grooms. "Coach 
Hudson has helped a lot because 
he's very knowledgeable." 
O>crall, Hudson is pleased with 
Grooms's progress. 
"Because of his understanding and mechanics, Scott is the number two quarterback right now," he says. 
Sophomore Todd Lezon and seniors Tom Cushing and Kevin Smith are competing for the number three quarterback position. Accord­ing to Hudson, Lezon has the ad­vantage right now. 
"Todd would have the nod right now, because he's been there all spring," he says. "Now that he's hurt, 
c-~~~ 
NEW JERSEY CLUB BUS Round Trip: dpt. May 10, 8pm Returns on August 28 Round Trip Cost: $79.00 
o•o 
CALLJOHN~I'' 1583
,, 
--IWERl/ ___h 

t ~igltts oftlJtQtastlt 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry & Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Haircut only $6 with coupo~
S4S33 Terrace Lane, South Bend (Across from 
(Hair must be washed day of cut)
Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 
272·0312 277-1691
SAT. 8:30-5:30 
($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 

though, it presents a problem." 
Lezon has been experiencing pain· in his throwing arm and has been working this spring as much as the pain will allow. He is scheduled to undergo surgery upon completion of spring practice, but should be ready to play come fall. 
The 6-4, 200-pound Lezon spent his freshman season as quarterback of the junior varsity. Hudson sees a promising talent in Lezon, but em­phasizes that improvement is still needed. 
Senior Tom Cushing is also challenging for the number three spot. At 6-1, 185 pounds, Cushing has spent most of his three seasons guiding the prep team. 
Also competingf tor the third posi­tion is another senior, Kevin Smith. The 6-5, 205-pound Smith was a quarterback last year, but then changed to wide receiver. 
When practice resumes in the fall, two newcomers will be on hand for the Irish. Steve Beuerlein, 6-2, 205 pounds, who was the California In­terscholastic Federation player of the year, and Joe Fi!itsky, the 6-4, 205-pounder who comes from Pitts­burgh Central Catholic, the same high school as Dan Marino, should both provide added depth in the quarterback department. 
The quarterback situation looks very promising this season tor the Irish, and, with plenty of time still ahead, it appears that things can only get better. Coach Hudson sums up the situation. 
"They want to learn," he says. "They're very anxious to get better, and it's refreshing to be around people like that." 
I ~ 
l 

-------------· -------------------------------··-----­
-~---­
The Observer Friday, April 22, 1983 -page 17 
?>oo~ 
• • • Uvulas """""""'

cominuedfrom page 20 
2) last Drool .•• Uvulas -This team goe~ up against Pneumothorax today. It got to the Final Four by crushing Negligence, 21-9. A tough defense was the key to the game as Uvula player Christina Weinmann held negligence star Laura Hanson to just 5-of-1-, shooting. Hanson had scored a tournament-high 17 points in Negligence's last game. 
l'vulas is comprised of Notre Dame basketball player Debhi Hensley and !{)ur Notre Dame tleld hockey players. It is a very strong team under the basket as Clare Henry, Jean Grasso. and Weinmann. are all tough on the boards. The three players do a good job lighting for the hall and have pretty good height. They are not very good shooters and usually take a lot of shots. However. they can usually get. enough rebounds to get away with it. 
The Uvula defense is what will get this team into the tlnals. If Wein­mann can cover Missy Van Ort as well as she covered Hanson -and she should be able to -Uvulas should take care of Pneumothorax, even if it misses its usual number of shots. 
3) Who Cares -This is the only team that had a close game in the quartertlnals. It beat Leather and Lace, probably the best team not to make ,the Final Four. 21-17, in a game that was close all the way. Nei­ther team shot well, but Who Cares's balance and basketball skill even­tually paid off. 
Kathy Marnocha and Shay Koeh­ler were the stars for Who Cares. Marnocha scored a game-high nine point in 25 shots, while Koehler added seven baskets and pulled down 15 rebounds. Who Cares also played the game without two of its regular players, Jackie Barry and Stephanie Korcheck, who were out with injuries. 
Who Cares is the only team in the semifinals that does not have a var­sity basketball player. However, every player on the team has played interhall ball. The t1ve players are a combination of Farley and P.E. players, depending on who is injured. 
The team's strong point is its ability to pass and move the ball around. Nearly every player can dribble the ball well. Koehler is especially effective penetrating. She is good at tinding an open teammate under the basket and also has a decent shot. 
Marnocha is the shooter on the team. She plays as a center on defense because of her height, but she is a forward on offense because she has one of the best outside shots on the team. She also handles the ball well. She gets some help under­neath from Stella Ossello. 
If Who Cares is going to make a strong bid for the t1nals, it is going to have to make up for its lack of rebounding strength. If Marnocha and Koehler stay outside, Ossello is going to have to grab a lot of of. fensive-rebounds. If not, Who Cares could have trouble. 
4) Pneumothorax -The only unseeded team to advance to the Final Four is Pneumothorax. Pneumothorax got to the semit1nals by heating one ofthe four seeds, We Ain't So Bad, in yesterday's last game. The final score, 21-10, was easily the closest game Pneumothorax had played all tournament. The other scores of 21-2, 21-:\, and 21--1, show that this is detlnitely not a surprise team. 
The win over We Ain't So Bad showed that Pneumothorax is not a !luke. After We Ain't So Bad took a .,_6 lead, Missy Van Ort and Gretchen Meyer led a charge that saw Pneumothorax score 1 5 of the last 18 points of the game. Meyer t1nished with a game-high nine bas­kets in 22 shots. 
Pneumothorax ha~ hec:n led through the tournament hv the play of \'an Ort, one of the stars on the: Saint Mary's basketball team. \'an Ort has used her height to give her a rebounding advantage. She has also been able to get inside: tor high­percentage shots. As a result, she has made 29 out of 36 shots in her last three games. 
Meyer and Beth Kreher also play a major part in the offense. Kreher, a Saint Mary's volleyball player, provides some good outside shoot­ing, while Meyer. who played in­tramural basketball at SMC, helps out Van Ort inside 
The key to Pneumothorax's game i~ \'an Ort. however. If it is going to win today and SundaY, it is going to have to get the ball to Van Ort. l.Jvulas should make: it difficult. 
Thu~. it should be a Mary DiStanis· lao reunion in the tlnals. Shari Mat­vey's Oreos against Debbi Hensley's Uvulas. The game will he: very physi­cal under the boards, but Oreos'­height advantage will eventually prove too much tor Uvulas. 
So that's the Final Four rundown. 
The semit1nals today will he played 
at -1 and 5 today on Stepan 2. The 
t1nals will be played at I 1 on Sun­
day on the court at the ACC. 
•tlb!.c.-ntr (or.iphl\1'\uunnt' I..Kruu; 

DRINKING BEER IS LIKE PUTTING TOGETHER ABASKETBAlLTEAM. START OFF WITH ACOUPLE OF TALL ONES. 
Red Auerbach 

.. 
The Observer 

The Observer/john Wachter 
Mike Trudeau is one ofthe many Notre Dame baseball players who have been having trouble at the plate this year. Poor bitting bas been responsible for a five-game losing streak that the team is current(v suffering through. This weekend, the Irish hope to solve their problem by beating the Universi~y ofDetroit at Detroit. The trip means a lot to the team because Detroit is a conference op­ponentand a good showing wouldput the team in a goodposition in theMidwestern Ci~y Conference. 
Let's Give It A Try 
SUB n1qht at 
th€Y€llow SusmaRJn€ 

For Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy Cross Every Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday Evening 9 · 12pm 
Free Delivery · Every 1/2 hour 
Drivers carry under $15.00 
Friday, April22, 1983-page 18 
Important weekend ahead 
Gallo's squad readies for Detroit 
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 
"We want to get back on the win­ning side," comments baseball coach Larry Gallo about this weekend's two doubleheaders against Midwestern City Conference foe Detroit. He is referring to the current tlve-game losing streak that 
his  team  is  currently  suffering  
through.  
The four games  were  originally  

scheduled to be played in Detroit, but last weekend the diamond was covered with snow. The games were then switched to be played here at Notre Dame. However with the decent weather lately, Detroit's field is now in playable condition. So the Saturday and Sunday doubleheaders have been moved back to Detroit. 
Gallo does not blame the Detroit coach for the confusion, though. "I would like to play four con­ference games at home, too." In fact, the games will be Detroit's first home games of the season. 
record. Notre Dame has already played Xavier and will go against Butler next weekend to end its con­ference play. Detroit has yet to play any inter-league games. ' 
"Anytime you go on the road, you hope to split against the conference teams," remarked Gallo. 
Because he feels that Detroit is the team to beat in the division, he would dearly love to take three of four. "That would put us at more of an advantage than anyone (in the division)." 
Mark Clementz ( 2-1 and a 2.78 ERA) is the only healthy starting pitcher heading into Detroit. Seniors Bill Matre ( 3-4, 3.43 ERA) and Steve Whitmyer (2-5, 4.81 ERA) have stiff arms from their appearances Tues­day against Northwestern. Gallo was not certain if either senior would be pitching this weekend. Other pos· sible starting pitchers are freshman Brad Cross, sophomore Buster • Lopes, and senior Bill Stonikas. 
A predominantly senior team, the Detroit Titans will give whatever pitcher is available a hard time. 
"They can really hit the ball," s;tys 
Gallo. "They are probably one ofthe 


Summer Job Fall Through? 
I 
SOUTHWESTERN CO. students 
earned an average take-home 
of $3100.00 last summmer. 
A~k: Many Elli~ Steve Barron Kenny Hoefer Andy Phillips Pat Maloney 
Can you relocate? Do you have the entire summer free? Campus interviews: 1:00, 4:00, & 7:00PM Mon. & Tues. in room 20 LaFo;tune (serious inquiries only) 

' 
Ifyou're going to Europe this summer, don't see it from a train. See it from behind the wheel ofa Hertz car. It's less expensive than a European rail pass. And it costs even less when you share the ride with a friend. Plt,s with a Hertz car, there's never a charge for mileage. 
By renting from Hertz, you can reserve your car just 7 days before renting, you don't have to pay in advance, and in many cases there's no drop off charge. And unlike some rent-a-car companies, Hertz's minimum renting age is 18 years old. What's more, our prices are guaranteed in local currency through March 31, 1984. So no maner how much the dollar fluctuates, our rates won't. 
Hertz also saves you money when you're off the road. We offer discounts at over 1,500 hotels in Europe, including Holiday Inns. Rooms start as low as $28 per person, double occupancy ( $17 in Britain), including breakfast, service and tax. "" 
For full details, call your travel agent. Or call Hertz at 1-800-654-3001. Ifyou think going by train is cheaper, you'll be pleased to discover 
you're way off THE..1WAY TO RENT A CAR. 
trac;k. 1iertz rcms Ford~ ttnd ottK•r hm• l'lm-. 

ional ~hargc:--art.• not induJcJ. lh:rtl Jnli<Jr t'\ltc ~h~)\\'11 ahor~o• i:-. ha:-.cd un cxd1an).!c ralt.."' a... of .\bn.:h 23. 19X3.
H<rtZ abo has low 

best, if not the best, hitting ball club 
in the Midwest. 
"Their pitching is adequate. think our starting pitchers are better than theirs, but their hitting is better than ours. They say that pitching beats hitting, so we'll just have to wait and see." 
• • . Tennis 
conlinuedfrom page 20 
Kalamazoo, 5-4, behind surprisingly 
good doubles play. .J; 
McMahon lead the way with a pair 
ofwins, the first coming by a 6-4, 6·0 
margin over Yen Johnson. Gibbons
1 
dropped a tough match to Tim Cor­
win, 6-4,6-2, but Nelligan countered 
with a win over Dave Higdon, 6-2, 
7-6. 
Kalamazoo seized the upper hand with wins at both the No. 4 and No. 5 spots as Adam Bottorff and Chris Yates defeated sophomores Novatny and Tom Pratt, 4-6, 6-3, 2-6 and 3-6, 5-7, respectively. But Noonan's 6-1, 
6-2 defeat ofEric Trautmann ar No.6 provided Notre Dame with a tie heading into the doubles competi­tion. 
Having gained momentum, Kalamazoo appeared destined for victory, but Idzik and MaMahon had other ideas as they stopped Higdon and Yates, 7-6, 6-2. 
Not bowing to defeat, Johnson and Corwin put it to the No. 1 Irish team of Noonan and Novatny, 6-4, 4­6, 7-6, to deadlock the match. However, Gibbons and Najarian confronted the situation and emerged successful as they ended Bartorff and Trautmann's, as well as Kalamazoo's, hopes for a victory, 6­3,7-6. 
"I think that although we do not have as many wins as a lot of teams (especially Big Ten teams), we are at least as good as they are, and we have proved it the last few matches," commented Novatny. 
Fallon's Irish will be in action again Sunday as they continue their homestand at 11 a.m. against Eastern Michigan, and if they remain consis­tent in their play oflate, the outlook for Irish win number 22 is very bright. 
Lacrosse loses to Wooster 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team's 
hopes for a Midwest Lacrosse As­
soctatton championship were 
seriou~ly damaged yesterday when 
it lost to conference opponent 
Wooster, 22·16. 
A strong offensive performance by Wooster in the second and third quarters was the ditference. The hosts scored I 5 goals in the two periods, blowing open a close game. A late comeback attempt by Notre Dame fell short. 
The Irish took a 6-Slead at the end of the tlrst quarter, but Wooster out­scored them 7--i in the second quar­ter and 8-2 in the third. A small 4-2 edge in the last quarter was not enough. 
Bob Trocchi led the strong Notre Dame attack against one of the best goalies in the league. He had two goals and assisted on t1ve others. Joe Franklin added four goals, while Steve Pearsall scored three times and Justin Driscoll and Dan Pace scored twice. :viike Quinn, Joe Hart, and Justin Shay also scored. 
The loss drops the Irish record to 
-i· 3 in the conference, heading into a 
game tomorrow at Denison. 
-.'11ikeSu/lil'tm 
[ 

-------~--~-----~-------. -,.-------~---~----­
~----~~-~-~~-~--~-----,-~---­
""1111111 
IheObseNet~====================================~ 
Weekend 
Friday, April22, 1983-page 19 
Photius 

~iorBar 
Srawbe cquiris 
Bloom County 

~------------~ 
YA KNOW, IF Pf:Rt'S ON£ THING LX\TllGK~ M6 OfF, IT'o [;(JOt: FR!X.Zf--NIKS 
6Ht.Y 1\CHIN' 1\BOUT 
OOR 51D£'5 ·'FIR~T US€-" 
Simon 

ANP PEON !I£Y WB A ltW AT US . AN17 W£ WB A F£W MOR£ 1\NP 1?6N 
WHOA N~U,Y I 11 NGOO)Y l£Ff.(t 
!J_d\~{~~
-:t'~-i:Jr]," ,,-: r(
/'/ _w 


ACROSS 22 Tennis Provo's great state 24 Pries
The Daily Crossword 5 Allows 25 Premium of 9 Battery currency items exchange 11 Prehistoric 26 Ammonia 
instrument derivative 13 Simple 28 Integers: 14 Accessories abbr. 
for tour· 29 Source of ists Solomon's 16 Bent wealth 
forward 30 Part of 17 Intimidate RSVP 18 Small 31 Finesse 
drink 32 Greasy 19 Small 34 Alphabetic child trio 21 Fleming or 37 Spats Smith 40 Cuckoos 
Thursday's Solution 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
4122/83
All Rights Reserved 
Berke Breathed 
Wf..tt 1 Wf..~~ 
OAT WOUW 
SHCXIJ'fM 
Lucas Lamadrid 


... You. 4ET roo MANY 
YEAH, I KNOW WHAT 
JUNK PLAY<;. 

41 Steep 10 Former New embankment Zealand PM 
43 Movein 11 French a lazy schools manner 12 Diamond· 
44 Calendar head's state 
abbr. 13 Very, in 45 Denounced music 47 Condiment 15 Man from 48 Nativeof Madrid 
Susiana 20 Military 50 Scattered award 52 Holding 23 Prepares devices texts 53 Military 25 Spring grade month 54 Suiting 27 ActorRon 
materials 29 Grain 55 Cuts 32 Lost color 56 Opening 33 Anoints, 57 Give tempo· old style 
rary use of 34 Entree 35 Legal 
DOWN profession 1 Simple 36 Dries 2 Dorothy's to make 
dog crackly 3 Highly 38 Armadas skilled 39 Sole of a 
.J Immediately plow following 41 Hunting this dog
5 Bread units 42 Sea bird 6-Gantry 45 Australian 7 Grandstand animal 
section 46 Golf stroke 8 Aboveboard 49 Large 9 Tendency to grouper 
fantasy 51 Level 
Campus 
-~ -­
Friday, April22 
•3:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "Monetary Policy: A Reconsideration," james Stone, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

• 
3:30 p.m. Phiilosophy Colloquium, "Descartes' Legacy in France, 1660-1700," Prof. Desmond Clarke, Library Lounge 

•5:15 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Lucia," Annenberg Auditorium, SZ 

•8p.m.-Play, 
"Man ofLa Mancha," ND/SMCStu· dent Players, Washington Hall 

Saturday, April23 

•8 
a.m.-3 p.m. ~Test, Graduate Record Examina­tion, Engineering Auditorium 

•10 
a.m. -Sociology Conference, Panels of Speakers on "The Sociology of Law," "Impact of Work on Family," and "Ethnic Relations in Latin America," First Floor O'Shaughnessy 

•12:30 
p.m. Sociology Conference, "Mexicans, Mexican-Americans, Anglos," Prof. Julian Samora, First Floor O'Shaughnessy 

•z 
p.m.. ·_ Sociology Conference, Panels on "Sociological Theory in Hegel, Marx, Weber," "Sports in America," and "Violent Behavior in Public Places," First Floor O'Shaughnessy 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. ~ Film, "The Omen," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Logan Cen­ter, Sl 

Sunday, April24 

•11 
a.m. -Tennis, NO Men vs. Eastern Michigan, Courtney Courts 

•lp.m.--! 
p.m. -Fonnal Opening, Reception and Exhibition, Ivan Mestrovic, Snite Museum of Art 

•4. 
· p:m. -Faculty Cello Recital, Karan Buranskas, Annenberg Auditorium 


•"". and 9 p.m. ~ Film, "Startrek Blooper Show," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Ski Team, 53 with NO 1.0. 
•8 
p.m. -SMC Music Dept. Concert, SMC Wind Ensemble, Little Theatre 

•8:15 
p.m.~ Organ Graduate Recital, Michael Hollman, Sacred Heart Church 


The Far Side 

"So! ... You must be the one they call 'The 
Kid.'" 

are the special tonite at 
L _::.-.:.~.......-::~r 
Senior Bar LIVE BfittD starting at lO:oo 

t. 
Quarterback report 
I 
Kiellays claim to top spot again 
By ED DOMANSKY the ·spring drills, Hudson has ob­learn and get better." Sports Writer served many things about his quar­Senior Blair Kiel has been learning terbacks, but, of all that he has the system for four years now, and 
Probably the most glamorous and observed, one thing stands out. once again he will be at the helm of publicized position on a football the Notre Dame offense. team is the quarterback. Since much "Blair Kid is still the number one 
-
Spring Football
of what happens on otfenst: hinges quarterback," says Hudson. "He has on the quarterback's ability to lead established himself and it's very
'83
his team, the quarterback must not clear in everybody's mind that he's only be respected by his team, but the best." must also possess the experience "More than anything, I'm Thb year, a~iJe from being the 
and poise that is necessary to per­impressed by their desire to learn." number one quarterback, Kiel will form successfully in many different he ~avs. ''They're a most unique 
See PASSERS, page 16
situations. 
group in that they always want to As the spring football season swings into its tina! week, the Notre Dame football team can happily say that it has establbhed its quarter­
Fallon's tennis tean1 
back. In fact, even the number two slot is spoken for. The remaining competition now is for the number 
races past Wisconsin 
three position, and three talented in­dividuals a1e competing for it. By MARK B.JOHNSON Noonan maintained the Irish lead Ron lludson, beginning his Sports Writer with his 3-6, 7-5, 6---l victor-y over second season in the Gerry Faust ad­Tom Klein · 
-
ministration, is once again the quar­'·They played spectacularly With a 4-2 singles lead, the Irish terback coach although he also has tonight," exclaimed Coach Tom F'll­seemed to be on their way to an easy Guess who's tbe top quarterback? That's right, Blair Kiel. But been named offensive coordinator. lon after his men's tennis team win heading into the doubles com­
Spring is a time for improvement
there is a real battle for the other two spot:tf)as Scott Grooms and gained one of its biggest wins of the petition, but Ringlien and Arends, and a chance for the players to gain yea, 6-3, over Wisconsin yesterday playing No. 1 doubles for Wisconsin.
Todd Lezon try to bold offthe others. Ed Dolnansky reports on the 
some experience, and, throughout
quarterback position at the right. afternoon at Courtney Tennis Cen­combined to down· Noonan and ter. Novatny, 7-6, "'-6, and pull the The victory was the second in a Badgers within one match of Notre 
Bookstore Final Four row over a Big Ten squad and the Dame. third in a row overall for the hot Senior Paul ldzik and McMahon Irish, as it upped their o~erall record teamed at No. 2 doubles for the Irish, to 21-9. and they clinched the team victory
Women now down to four teams 
Senior captain Mark McMahon with a powerful 6-3, 6-1 win over By MIKE SULLIVAN The four teams are Oreos, Last part in the offense, spurring a ,ery started things off right with a 6-3, 7-S Lovett and Klein while sophomore Assistant Sports Editor Drool . . . Uvulas, Who Cares, and effective fastbreak. However, she win over Badger Steve Lovett in a Paul Najarian and Gibbons, in only Pneumothorax. will miss today's game. LisaJohmun contest of the No. 1 singles players. their third match as partners, The Final Four of Women's 1) Oreos -The team that could and Newman's replacement will Then sophomore Mike Gibbons, provided the t1nishing touches with Bookstore. make things tough for Who Cares is have to take over the rastbreak in her whom Fallon said "looked great all a 7-6, 6-4 win over Annear and 
It's not quite Albuquerque, it's not Oreos, the pre-tournament favorite. absence. :~fternoon," clowned Andy Rin~tlen. Wayne. quite the men's Bookstore Final lt has breezed past three straight op­Even without Newman, this is the 6-7, "'-5, 6-.3 at No.2. "Ir (the win) was a really good Four. but it's nothing for you male ponents and has won its games faster stongest team in the tournament. It Wisconsin's No . .3, Dan Arends, one, as we had not beaten them in chauvinists to hiss about. The teams than any other team. In its last game, is easily the tallest team and should proved a bit too tough for freshman .the three years that I have been here that have made it this far have done Oreos destroyed TBA, 21-6, as Pen­dominate any team on the boards. Joe Nelligan in this match, as Arends until now," stated Noonan. "We real­so with good rebounding, hustle, ny Epps scored eight and Mo Milota Who Cares is going to have a very prevailed 6-2, S-7, 6-4, but sopho­ly did not know what to expect, but and defense. had six. tough time with Matvey, Epps, and more John Novatny countered with everyone played well, and that's 
I 
Almost every remaining team has Shari Matvey, the Notre Dame bas­Milota, which means that Oreos will an Irish win as he contained Tom An­what counts.,. destroyed each ofits opponents and ketball star, is on this team. When be in the t1nab. Newman will be near, 6-1, 7-6. The Irish had reached their 20­it's safe to say that the four best she is joined by Epps and Milota, back for on Sunday, too. John Wayne, the Badger version, win goal the day before as they teams will fight it out to see who will both interhall players, you have the slipped past Notre Dame freshman edged NCAA Division lll power be the 1983 Women's Bookstore biggest front line in the tournament. Doug Pratt, 6-1, 1-6, 6-3, at Nu. S,
See UVULAS, page 17 
I 
See TENNIS, page 18
Champion. Dava Newman has played a big but, in the sixth spot, junior Tim 
I 
' 
I 
Elite Eight enter homestretch ofBookstore XII 
Double Decker favored to jam to title, balanced field may see Cookie crumble 
Tim "Bone" Bourret, Bookstore Basketball's second commissioner, has a theory about basketball at Notre Dame. Bone says that if it were possible to remove the varsity basketball squads from every college campus in America and hold the NCAA tournament using the remaining students, Notre Dame would win every year. 
This theory always made sense to me, but I always doubted its validity. Until this year, that is. 
I have been amazed by the talent which has emerged in Bookstore Basketball XII. Never mind Tim Andree, Bill Varner, Karl Love, Tim Healy,John Shumate andJim 
Baron. They're all very good basketball players. I'm talking about Paul DeAngelis, Chris Schneider, John Frierot, Casey Newell, Bob Karnes, Joe Sweeney, Bob Keenahan ... 
Just to name a few. 
Even though the weather has been ,he worst of the 
past t1ve years, and play got a little too rough at some 
points, Bookstore BasketJ;>all XII has showcased some 
excellent basketball players. And it'~ not over yet. 
The tournament concludes this weekend. Today (the 
Elite Eight) is my favorite day of the whole tournament. 
Games are played on both of the Bookstore courts at S 
p.m. and 6:1 5 p.m. If you arrive early and stand in be­tween the two courts. You may get a kink in your neck, but you'll see some of the most exciting basketball of 
your life. Here's a look at the Elite Eight: 
David Dziedzic 
Bookstore Commisioner 

1) Double Decker Oreo Cookie -Bill Varner has scored seven points a game in leading the top entry to the quartert1nals. Varner has been all over the court, amazing fans with top-notch moves. Juniors \1ansel Car­ter and Stacey Toran, who played in the Final Four with 
T.P.S. in -Bookstore X, each average three points a game. Sophomore Casey Newell, who was a first-team All­Bookstore selection last year, averaged more than four points a game heti>re a rib injury forced him out of the tournament. lie will, however. play tonight. With Newell and strong defensive play from Carter and Toran, this team should win it all. 
2) Even-less Jacksonless Five -This team is a combination of three oflast year's final fuur teams. Cap­tainjohn 'ltein played for the Even-lessJacksonless Five. Jim Baron and Ed Hjerpe both played on Eddie O'Rou~ke and the Travelling Stragglers. And Dave Duer­son played on Full House. Bookstore XI Champions. Stein is the leading scorer, averaging seven a game. 
3) Bad to the Bon~ -Tim Andree is the tourna· See EIGHT, page 14 


