--~----~-----__.......---~~­
• • • Marathon 33 -page 8 
VOL X\-11, NO. lOS thl· mlkpt·mknt student newspaper sc:rvmg notre dame and sault m.try'~ FRIDAY. FEBRUARY z.:;. 1983 
Denies Scandal 
Reagan names EPA replacements 
W"ASHlNGTON (AP)-President \.fs. Lavelle's tiring by Reagan on hieved "a splendid record." Reagan. denying a scandal was Feb.".., prompted a tlurry of congre~­"The president thought that brewing at the. Environmental sional investigations into allegations would be the best course in order to Protection Agency, named replace­of mismanagement. On Wednesday. get a fresh start," the spokesman ments resterday fo-r Rita M. Lavelle the president asked for the re.'iigna­said. "The president has pur a new and two other administrators he tions of another assistant ad· team in place." removed in the continuing shake-up ministrator and the agency's Speakes held out the possibility 
at the EPA. inspector general. that those given ~":ting appoint· The president said he retained "The president wanted to ments would be replaced after a confidence in the environmental strengthen the management func­more thorough search for nominees, 
agency's administrator. Anne McGill tion". at the agency, Speakes said. but he also said they would be con­Burford, and told reporters who when asked why the shifts were sidered for permanent positions. asked about a possible EPA scandal, needed in light of Reagan's assertion The other appointments 
an­"The only one brewing is in the a week ago that under his ad­media that's talking about it." ministration, the agency had ac· See EPA, page 5 Meanwhile, Ms. Lavelle, in a second day of congressional tes­timony, told a House Public Works subcommittee that her firing by 
Coed housing survey 
Reagan was still "phenomenal" to her and insisted she had done no­thing wrong. 

finds majority in favor 
"I hope today we can put all the charges on the table -let's discuss By CAROL CAMP housing because "men are too im­when, where, and what,"-she said. SeniorStaffReporter mature to handle the situation." 
Ms. Lavelle, who attacked Mrs. Arguments given by those who Burford in testimony Wednesday as According to a survey conducted favor the introduction of coed an ineffective manager, said yester­by Student Government coeduca­housing facilities include the dar she had become isolated from tion commissioner Anne Moore, 72 ovnwhelming view that this type ot the EPA administrator amid con­percent of the students respondmg livmg arrangement "would con­tinual wrangling within the agency to the questionnaire indicated that stitute a more normalized social at­for power. they would like to have the option of mosphere;" consequently, there 
Larry Speakes, chiefdeputy White on-campus coed housing. would be an "improvement in un­House press secretary, announced Fifty-one percent ofthe more than derstanding between the sexes," as the shifts at the EPA and said the 400 surveys distributed to randomly well as the development of "more choices were "the best people we selected students were returned. realistic attitudes toward the op­can find consistent with our need to Participants in the survey were posite sex." As understanding be­Rita M. Lm,ellu, fired director ofthe Environmental Protection move quickly." asked to indicate their views on the tween the sexes develops, students Agency'shazardous wasteprograms,faces theSenateEnvironment 
At the same time, he said he had issue of coed housing as an al· feel that their educational ex-and Public Works Wednesday. Ms.. Lavelle denied she bad ever heard no suggestions that the presi­ternative to the present single-sex made any "sweetheart· deals" with polluters. See story at left. ( AP 
See COED, page 5
dent intended to stem the con­dormitory arrangement. Additional­Photo) troversy surrounding the agency by ly, those who expressed their op­removing Mrs. Burford. But he said po!>ition to such an arrangemem 
'No surprises 
other shifts might be made by the were asked to state the rationale be· new officials. hind their objections. Reagan chose Lee M. Thomas, an The main reasons given b_y stu­associate director of the Federal dents opposed to on-campus coed 



Expert describes new canon laws 
Emergency Management Agency, to housing include the feeling that succeed Ms. Lavelle. He will be such a living arrangement would in­By BOB VONDERHEIDE America told a Notre Dame renewal was soldified in the legal given the title ofacting assistant ad­terfere with an individual's privacy, News Editor audience last night. structures of the Church, "Pope ministrator for selid waste and the belief that coed housing violates For centuries, Church law has John believed it would be merely a emergency response. Thomas has Catholic teachings and standards, The new Code ofCanon Law "isn't been structured in terms of civil facade." been praised for his work leading a and the view that coed housing a cookbook," and it will not tell bis­government models, said Father 
Speaking as part of the Depart­federal task force dealing with the would destroy the traditional Notre hops, clergy and laypersons "how to Jar.tes Provost, but the new canons ment of Theology's lecture series, dioxin contamination problems at Dame dorm spirit. Additionally, one do Church," the executive coor­"•mderstand the Church not as a 
Provost told more than I 20 people Times Beach, Mo. respondent objected to coed dinator of the Canon Law Society of sc.v.ereign nation but as a sacra­
in the Center for Continuing Educa­
AtSLF 

Carroll relates teenage sex, drugs 
By SUSAN O'HARA lines and humorous comments. Carroll wa!'> only twenty-two. 
News Staff Before reciting his first poem, Last night Carroll read por­
Carrol quipped. "I just hope no tions of his as yet unpublished 
Author, poet, and songwriter nuns rush up to the stage and Book r~l !1/od.~, which he con­
Jim Carroll read excerpts from beat me up." siders "a newer prose form." 
his '-''idely acclaimed journal, His third volume of poetry, Carroll, who still resides in 
Basketball Diaries, and per· Living at the Movies, received a New York, is currently in the 
formed two ofhis songs before an Pulitzer Prize nomination when process .of recording his second 
overflowing, enthusiasdc crowd. album. He surprised the 
as the Sophomore Literary Fes­audience by singing two songs 
tival continued last night in the from the unreleased album, 
Library Auditorium. "Freddie's Store," and "No More 
Throughout his works, Carroll Luxuries," while a portable tape 
recounts his experiences while deck. referred to by Carrol as his 
growing up in Upper Manhattan. "ghett<r blaster," belted out the 
In Basketball Diaries, which was music. 
written between the ages of I 2 His first album, Catbolic Boy. 
and 1S, Carroll writes about by The Jim Carroll Band, reflects 
Catholic guilt, sex, and his addic­>'his experiences and frustrations 
tion lO heroin. His works are as an adolescent. It received a 
filled with the profanity and great deal of praise ti·om music 
coarseness ofthe streets in wh1ch critics when it was released 
he grew up, and the poems erupt several years ago, and it has 
with powerful and compelling enjoyed much airplay on 
images. progressive rock stations. 
Despite the serious nature of Carroll will be giving a 
the poems, Carroll often had the workshop today at 1:30 p.m. in 
audience in laughter wir._h witty the library lounge. 

r.Jent," a visible sign of an invisible tion that the code has gone far to reality. 
recognize the role of"all Christians" ·Provost, who is also managing in the mission that jesus Christ editor of jurist magazine, the 
began.leading journal on canon law, said 
A section analogous to a Bill of
the new code that Pope John Paul II 
Rights outlines 17 rights inherent inpromulgated Jan. 25 "relies on fuith .Christian life. The right to spread therather than heavy sanctions," and Gospel, he noted, belongs to allreflects the changes Vatican II made Christians not just the hierarchy ofin order to de-emphasize legalistic the Church. The rights outlined indefinitions ofChurch. 
the code also include the right toThat's why the new code won't form associations, free speech,come as a shock to the average Cath· privay}', due process and just wages.
olic, Provost said, because the , canons merely codify "the way of ~~qually important, Provost said, is 
thinking" that has become the norm/ .the section of Christian respon­for the life of the Church in the sibilities that in part calls on Cat­holics to promote social justice,
twenty years since Vatican II began. meet the needs ofthe poor and lead
"The biggest surprise of the new •. a holy life. "These are now canon
code," Provost said, "is that there are laws," he said. "They aren't just good
no big surprises." intentions."
Church life, however, is a dynamic function and in that sense, The right of women to hold .. Provost said. "the code was out of Church offices except priesthood date the miniute it was promulgated represents "a big step for Rome:,"., (sent to be published)." Because of Provost s.aid, even thou$h women cultural diversity and ambiguities in are. still not>1tllowed to be ordained the law~. the code will "need a lot of as priestS. "Yo.u have to take a firSt work to clarity" some of the unclear step in order to take.the last one.'.' spots. 
Provost, an associate professor at PopeJohn XXIII initiated the revi­The Catholic University of AmeriCa, sion of the 191 7 Code ofCanon Law believe~, however, that the code on the same day he called for the "retains a very static concept of the second ecumenical conference of magisterium (the teachers and the Vatican. teaching authority ofthe Church) as According to Provost, unless the athing.'' , 

-__..........,..-----­
Friday, February 25, 1983 -page 2 


NewsBrie!J 
Hy The Obs-erwr and The Associated Press 
Transmitter problems have kept wsND-FM, the student fine arts radio station off the air since Sunday night sign-off. But repair work taking place today may have the station transmitting again this evening, accordi11g to a spokesman for the station. As WSND workers tried to sign on Monday, they found the transmitter was inoperable. New parts for the mechanism arrived yesterday. ­
The Observer 

Father Steve Bevans, Ph.D. student of theology at Notre Dame, will give a lecture titled "Person to Person; Heart to Heart: Our Relationship with God," Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. This is the second in a three-part lecture and discussion series sponsored by the sophomore class. Admission is free. -The 
Observer 

The Saint Mary's Financial Aid Office has announced that 1983-84 applications for financial aid should be sub­mitted by Tuesday, March 1. The Saint Mary's College Financial Aid Application must be received by Saint Mary's, and the Financial Aid Form must he received by the College Scholarship Service no later than March. 1. Students who are applying for only the Guaranteed Student Loan should submit all forms by June 1. Applications for campus employment for 1983-84 will be available March I5. Anv student with questions about tinancial aid or student employmen't should visit the Financial Aid Office at LeMans Hall, Room 1 50. ­
The Observer 

Daniel H. Winicur, associate professor ofchemistry and assistant dean ofthe College ofScience at Notre Dame, has been appointed registrar of the University by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, provost. He succeeds Richard]. Sullivan, a member of the registrar for 11 years. Winicur joined the Department of Chemistry in 1970, was promoted to associate professor in 1976 and given the assistant dean's post in 1979. A specialist in chemical physics, he has his doc­torate from the University of California at Los Angeles and was a research fellow at the California Institute of Technology prior to coming to Notre Dame. Winicur's research interests, pursued while assistant dean, will continue while he is registrar, as will his teaching. Under Sullivan's direction, the Registrar's Office recently completed the installation of a new computer system for student records. The 
Provost said Winicur will assume his new position during the sum­
mer. -The Observer 

Dr. Arvind Varma, professor of chemicat engineer­ing, has been named chairman of that department by Provost Timothy O'Meara. Varma has served as acting department chairman since July, 1982, succeeding Dr. Roger Schmitz, now dean of the College of Engineering. A native of India, Varma received his Ph.D from the University of Minnesota in 1972. He was a senior research engineer with the Union Carbide Corp. for two years before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1975. He was a visiting professor at the University of Wisconsin at Madison during fall 1981 and Chevron 
Visiting Professor at the California Institute of Technology during spring 1982. Varma's research interests are in chemical and catalytic reaction engineering, kinetics, an catalysis, and mathematical modeling. He has published about 60 research papers in these areas. O'Meara also announced the reappointment of Dr. Morton Fuchs as chairman of the Department of Microbiology. Fuchs has served as department chairman since 1981, succeeding Dr. Morris Pollard, 
director of the Lobund Laboratory. -The Observer 
A two-part series on the double career family will be sponsored by the Notre Dame Advisory Council ofWomen Students and Student Government. The first event will be a discussion with Digger and Terry Phelps, scheduled for this Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. The second event will be a question and answer panel of Notre Dame alumni couples. This will be held at 7:30p.m. Tuesday, Mar. 1, in the Center for Continuing Education. 
-The Observer 

The Anthropology Department held its second annual Anthropology Club Faculty Student Dinner last night at The Whistle Stop Restaurant. At the dinner, Professor Carl O'Neil, sposor of Notre Dame's chapter of Lambda Alpha, the anthropology honors society, inducted three new members into the society. The new members are Deirdre Murphy, Ma .ry Malone, and Kelly Flood. 
-The Observer 

Felix Laub, a 37-year-old Israeli reserve artillery captain, was sentenced to 28 days in a military prison Wednesday as a conscientious objector to the war in Lebanon, the Yesh Gvul (There Is a Limit) anti-war movement reported. The organization said two other officers and three enllsted men are in military prisons for refusing to do military service in Lebanon, and more than 20 other conscientious objectors have served prison terms since the Israeli invasion last]une. -AP 
There is a 50 percent chance of morning snow showers, otherwise becoming partly sunny Friday. It will be cold with the high in the upper 20s to low 30s. Clear and cold Friday night with the low in the upper teens. Increasing clouds and warmer Satuday with the high around 40. -AP 
A rose by any other name. •• 
It is comforting to see the Student Senate hard at work on resolutions that will have such far-reaching ef­fects as that one passed earlier this week. The resolution in question would change the name of the Student Uni­on to the Student Government Activities Hoard ( SGAB ), a change we will all certainly be talking about for years to come. 
Whether the change resulted from years of thought 
and debate or was simply a whim aimed at providing 
business f(Jr those lithographers responsible for Student 
Union letterheads, we may never know. What is known 
is that the Senate's action this week could form the 
motivation for a campus crusade to rename other 
aspects of campus life more appropriate!' Helow are 
some suggestions. 

• 
Change the phone number for the Ombudsman from 6283 ( OBLJD) to 5653 (JOKE). Maybe they'll get the hint. 

• 
Change the Program of Liberar Studies ( PLS) to Four-Year Vacation. But why come to South Bend? 

• 
Change LaFortune Stu­dent Center to La Cage Aux F olles. Tony Bennett left his heart in San Francisco, hut others left more than that. 

• 
Change "We're Number I" Moses to "We're Number 41 but I don't have that many fingers so I'll just hold up one" Moses. If Moses would have had to say all that, the Israelites never would have made it across the Red Sea. 



• Change Fair-Catch 
Corby to !-Got-It-You-Take­It Corby. A memorial to the 1981 Sugar Bowl. 

• 
Change Touchdown Jesus to "Jump, lady, I'll catch you" jesus. I'm looking around for lightning bolts. 

• 
Change Lyons Hall to Pasquerilla West South West, Morrissey to Pasquerilla West South Central, Flanner to Pasquerilla North East Central ...with the stipulation that Frank Pasquerilla donate $7 million to the students for each name change. 

• 
Change Dillon Hall to Pansy Hall. Maybe next year they'll learn how to throw snowballs. 

• 
Change the Old Fieldhouse to "The place where the Old Fieldhouse used to be." I must mention the ob­vious. 

• 
Change North and South Dining Halls to Tip­pecanoe Place and ilast Bank Emporium, respectively. A little positive thinking never hurts. 

• 
Change O'Shaughnessy Hall to The Andy Rooney Memorial Center. Arts and Letters-WHY?!? 

• 
Change the Cushing Hall of Engineering to the Parade Magazine Ugliest-Building-on-any-Campus 


The Observer 
Design Editor... ... Deirdre M. Murphy Design Assistant ............ Dave 'Physics??'' 
Robin,!,On 
La)'out Staff ........................................ Bruce T)'pesetters ........... Reggie, Bruce, & Tom News Editor ........................... Dave Sarphie Copy Editor... . ..... Carol Camp 
Savior..... . ................. Bruce Features Layout .. ............ Sarah Hamilton Editorials Lt~vout... ...... Tari Brown 
Sports Supplement Lavout.. ........ Chris Needles, J.P. & Steve Sports Copl' Editor ............. Mike Riccardi ND Day Editor . .....................Tim Petters SMC Day Editor..... .. .................. Bruce Trpists....... .. .... Betsy & Bruce Ad Design... ... hey man. like I don't know 
Photographer... . . ... Pete Laches Guest Appearances. Mark Worscheh htts the magic 20, Skip goes to florida, Humpy the cat, The Prankster & his rarebit, the loser., Jim Colvinfriend. Tbe Love children, Jeh. Monk. Ryan, and, of 
course, Bruce. 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except durtng exam and vc~cat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col lege Subscrtpttons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrtttng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a 'Tlember ot The Associated Press All reproductiOn rtghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame tndtana 46556 


Dave Sarphie 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Frid 

Award Winner. Another Parade Magazine blue chip All-American. 
• 
Change Senior Bar to the Next Whiskev Bar. Oh, don't ask why. . 

• 
Change the Notre Dame Groundskeepers to the Group OfOrnery Neophytic Servants (GOONS). When they're chasing you on their tractors, remember the word "Stop!" might not mean the same thing in their native language. 


• Change Farm Labor Organizng Committee (FLOC) to Fuming Liberals Opposed to Campbell's ...and 

Nestle's and Libby's and ... 
• 
Change the Notre Dame Administration to the Nazi­Youth Sentimentalists. Their concern for maintaining Notre Dame's traditions (i.e. profit-making athletics, Saint Michael's Laundry, long lines) has often superceded concern for the students. 

• 
Change WSND to WRIP, in memory of the Notre Dame Hockey Team. 

• 
Change Society of Women Engineers. Al­though there are several 


more appropriate names, none could be printed with­out offending the members 

ofthat organization. 
These, of course, are just a few suggestions. Even if the Student Senate doesn't take them all to heart, I believe the Senate's action this week got the ball rolling in the right direction. For as our representatives realize, this name change will provide the motivation to allow next year's Senate to re-rename the Student Govern­ment Activities Board back to the Student t:nion, and thus, will pave a path for concrete progress. 
Observer note--------, 
The Observer announces the following appoint­ment to the 1983-84 Editorial Board: Margaret Fosmoe will become Managing Editor and Dan O'Hare will become Business Manager. Appoint­ments will become effective March 22. 
• 


The Observer Friday, February 25, 1983-page 3 
'Gut feelings' 




Mission founder discusses history 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
Assistant News Editor 
The founder of the Volunteer 
Missionary Movement, who said her 
drive to establish an independent lay 
movement just "wouldn't go away," 
la~t night charted the history of the 
VMM before a small gathering at the 
Center for Social Concerns. 
Edwina Gateley, speaking in the crisp accent that retlects her native Great Britain, told of the numerous occasions in her life when she has felt called by God. One of these callings -"gut feelings" she called them -directed her to form a 
missionary movement for lay per­sons. And in 1969, the \'MM was born. 
The movement, which sends volunteers to developing countries to pass along their skills and knowledge, has a membership of over 700 persons today, with more than 130 working in such countries as Tanzania, Sudan, Kenya, Ghana, Uganda and Liberia. 
The growth in the movement 
came slowly, according to Gateley, 
who described the difficulties she 
encountered in establishing the 
VMM. After returning from a three­
year stay in Uganda, she said she 
spent almost 18 months trying to 
convince the bishops in England to 
support such a Ia]' movement. 
The bishops reacted negatively to the idea, and when the cardinal said no, Gateley returned to Africa, almost giving. up on the idea. But some of her supporters in England had other plans. After collecting 
S6000 and buying a house, they called and persuaded Gateley to "start this lay movement you're talking about and get on with it." 

After placing advertisements in 




SMC sophomores host parents this weekend 

john Duckworth, IIi, 3, waves to a crowd gathered ouside Children's Hospital in Boston Tuesday while his father,]ohn]r., holds the door ofa limousine open as they prepare to head to their Hudson, Mass., home. The youngster was hospitalized for seven weeks with a blood disease so rare that it bears his name. (AP Photo). 
Alumni, Badin, BP, St Ed's, Regina, Sarin & Grace in cooperation with Howard Hall present... 
A Chance to Dance 
in Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom 
Friday Feb. 25 9:30 · 1:30 $1 Admission Door Prizes & Refreshments Music by Charlie Penna, NO SMC ID REQUIRED 
............................... 
Onlyone ofthese pens



is thin enougfl 
to drawthe linebelow. 
The newest innovation in writing is the Pilot Precise rolling ball pen. It writes extra thin and extra smooth because of its micro ball and needle-like stainless steel collar. A unique pen at a uniquely _.) affordable price. .. ,.~,, 
c • ..,-· 

Only$1.19. ,~-.~ 
{'"ff:.(:,~e f~M":~":··"':..-----­

f~Y..O"' ,-~~ 



[PILOTlQr£ciSe 
The rolling ball pen that revolUtionizes thin writing_ 

Hy MIKE WILKINS 
SeniorStaaffReporter 
An open house and a class dinner­
dance highlight the list of activities 
for this year's Sophomore Parents 
Weekend running today, tomorrow, 
and Sunday at Saint Mary's. 
The festivities begin this after­
noon with the registration ofparents 
and students participating in the 
events. Tonight is the first real event 
of the weekend, the sophomore 
class talent show at 8:00 in 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, followed by 
a reception for parents and cast 
members. 

Tomorrow's activities begin with an open house from 1:30-3:30 in the Angela Athletic Facility. Department heads and professors from all depart­ments will be available to meet with parents and discuss the various programs at Saint Mary's. 
Tomorrow afternoon at 4:30, Fr. 
David Murphy will celebrate the 
sophomore class mass at the Church 
of Loretto. Tomorrow night is the 
sophomore class dinner at Century 
Center. The dinner begins at 7:30 
and the speaker will be Dr. John 
Duggan, President of the College. 

The weekend's activities con­clude with a brunch for participat­ing students and their parents from 9:30-10:30 Sunday morning in the dining hall. 
"The format this year is the tradi­tional format we use each year for Sophomore Parents Weekend," said Lee Ann Franks, chairman of the event. "We started planning events in October and we've been making arrangements ever since." 
In addition to Franks, six people serve on the committee responsible for planning all the events for the weekend, each with a seprate staff. "Each person is in charge of a dif­ferent aspect of the weekend," Franks remarked. "It really takes a lot of work for everybody to get everything coordinated and put to­gether." 

Franks said that she expects close to 1000 people at the dinner-dance, the weekend's most popular event. "We've really been happy with the turnout this year. This year and last year were the best numbers we've ever had." 
Tickets for all the events for the weekend, which are no longer available, are f>65 for two parents and a daughter or S44 for one parent and a daughter. Additional tickets for the dinner-dance can be purchased for Sl 5 and additional tickets to all the weekend's events are $22. 
London newspapers for volunteers and writing to see which Third World countries would accept such missionaries, Gateley said she just waited for the responses. Volunteers trickled in, but requests from the countries soon outnumbered them by almost 200. 
But after the VMM became 
established, she decided it was time 
to move on. "I didn't want to see our 
movement make the same mistake 
as the Church, establishing an au­
thoritarian system, like a Mother Su­
perior." 

After spending "three months in 
the Sahara Desert to see God's call­
ing," she decided to go to college in 
the United States to acquire the 
"tools to articulate my experience of 
theology." 

After receiving a degree, Gateley said she was persuaded to remain in the United States and start a lay mercenary movement here. Hesitant at first, she agreed and asked three members to come over from England to help. The group located in Yorkville, Ill., southwest of Chicago, on grounds owned by a local religious order. 
Gateley related that she has been in Chicago since January working as a street minister. Her experiences there included meeting and counseling dozens of persons who were "scared and frightened," yet had nowhere else to go but the streets. 
"We tend to enclose ourselves in 

our institutions and in our 
churches," she said, "In the last two 
months I have learned so much from 
those people." Included in Gateley's 
Chicago encounter was a visit to a 
brothel run by a 73-year-old 
madame. "I have never experienced 
anything like it as a person," she said. 

She recommended anyone considering such missionary work to take courses in world religions and cultures. "We hope there will be people from Notre Dame who will joinVMM." 

NAZZ­
uPcoMING SHOWS: 
Thurs. Feb. 24 .................... BREEN-PHILLIPS 9 · 11 Variety Show! Fri. Feb. 25 ..................... Chapel Choir Night 
9-? Sat Feb. 26 .......... An evening of Magic & Comedy 9 ·? featuring: Gary O'Brien 
Doug Maihufer Mike Weber 


Exciting Things Are Happening at 
Daniel's Den Lounge Ramada Inn  
Mon.·  Dollar Drink Nite Bar Liquor, Canned Beer  
Tues- Draft Beer: .75c $3.00 a pitcher  
Wed.·  Ladies Nite · %price drinks, and for everyone, all canned beer & bar  


liquor $1.00 

Thurs.-Mens Nite · %price drinks. Mexican Border Nite ·Tequila shots: .75¢; Tequila Sunrises and Margaritas: 
$1.25 

Fri.· Smoking Blue Devil Dr inks -offered on Fridays only­
Sun.-8 · midnight: $5.00 buys you all the draft beer you can drink. Cocktails Bar liquor·.75e 
..

-----~-~~ ------~---"'---~ ----·· ---~----~ #. ----....--------------,---........---.--~ .......----0 so 
-----------~---­
---------------------~-------------------­
The Observer Friday, February 25, 1983 -page 4 

Atari employees Angelica Garcia, 18, reacts af­without warning when the company announced ter she was fired from herjob at Atari, Inc., Tues­it was moving its manufacturing overseas to cut day. Some 1,700 Atari employees were fired costs ( AP Photo). 
Overcomes Critics 



Toto wins seven Grammy awards 
LOS Angeles ( AP) -"Ifit were up at the silver anniversary Grammy Iiams, country crooner Willie Nel­to the critics, we wouldn't have celebration, while the album's har­son, rock songstress Pat Benatar, won," Toto's Steve Lukather said monious soft-rock hit single Olivia Newton-John and comedian moments after the Los Angeles rock "Rosanna" earned record of the year· Richard Pryor. band and its members claimed the honors and two arranging awards. last ofseven Grammy awards. Toto also snagged the producer of Nelson's "Always on My Mind" 
The National Academy of Record­the year award, and Lukather shared broke Toto's stranglehold on the top ing Arts and Sciences' 25th annual a best rhythm and blues songwriting awards by beating "Rosanna" for awards were an evening of triumph Gramm with band members Jay song of the year honors and also for the six young studio veterans in Graydon and Bill Champlin for took best country song and coumry Toto, which has enjoyed four years "Turn Your Love Around," the male vocal awards. of quiet success despite some George Benson hit. critics' claims that the band is bland Toto was among a host of first­Williams, composer ofthe familiar and faceless. time Grammy winners that also in­scores to Star Wars and Superman, 
"We're not really a bunch of pret­cluded veterans Marvin Gaye, Lionel increased his career Grammy take to ty boys," Lukather shrugged Wed­Richie, Melissa Manchester, Joe 14 by winning best original film nesday night. "We're just a bunch of Cocker and Jennifer Warnes. score, instrumental composition musicians who like to play." The record academy also honored and instrumental arrangement 
Toto IV was named album of the some of its big winners of the past, awards for music to E.T. The Extra­year and best engineered recording including film score giant John Wil-Terrestrial. 

Law students advise poor in legal questions 
By PAT MALLEY program's executive directors, law Neu•s Staff student Scott Medlock, stres~ed the acedemic advantages of the ex­
The task of bringing a case to perience. court for a person with no ex­"W'hen we accept a case -and 
perience with the American legal we don't htwe to accept any case ­
syMem is a formidable one. For the we want to handle cases that have 
poor who cannot afford to hire a educational value." 
lawyer. the process becomes The students work closely with 
frustrating, hopeless, and painfuL faculty advisor~ with specialized 
As part of a program to aid the skills who help the interns best 
poor in thb process, tlve Notre prepare the cases. Professor Booker 
Dame Law School professors will be believes the unniquc combination 
inducted into the federal court of clinical experience and legal ;tid 
today, joining six other professors as service is invaluable. 
advisors in the school's Legal Aid "Clinical educ'ation in law is 
and Defense Association ( !.ADA ). equivalent to a medical internship LADA is a totally indcpendant stu­for medicine," said the program's dent orginization which, among faculty advisor. "If there isn't a sig­
other services, provides free legal nificant student value to the service for the poor. program, we don't do it." 
"For ali individual untrained in Federal court is a far cry from traf­law to go in and represent himself fic or small claims court. Booker and win is like me going into Yankee referred to it as "a high class way to 
Stadium and striking out the lineup handle cases" which makes for "high ofa major league team," said Profes­class training." sor Frank Booker, director of Clini­The first two pilot cases to be cal and Legal Aid at Notre Dame Law handled by the program are Title 7 School. "It just doesn't happen." disputes involving employment dis­
The burden poor people have crimination, brought by two South 
placed on the court by representing Bend residents. Both cases arc in the themselves has. increased dramati­investigative stage. cally over the past years. The need "We t1rst must investigate the case for qualified legal representatives down to the ground," explained 
for these people has never been Booker, "to see if a violation of the 
greater. "Their need and our need law of the land has been com­
meet," said Booker. mitted." 
The Indiana Federal Court has The .LADA, which has been in ex­
invoked a student practice rule istence for close to 20 years, has which allows student interns to probably reached its present poten­present cases of those unable to af­tal, believes Medlock While other 
ford a lawyer. similar services are being forced to 
The approximately 90 members cut back because of recent fiscal involved in the Indiana and Michi­restraints imposed by the govern­gan state courts do not charge for ment, the LADA is looking to con­the advice or representation they tinue growing. Said Booker, "We are provide. The only cost is the fee set enjoying the continued and growing for filing a suit. support of the uiversity." 
The students believe they benefit For he poor and disadvantaged of as much from the program as the Indiana and Michigan, the fight for poor might, for they gain valuable justice in the courts is proving to be 
courtroom experience. One of the a bit less painful. 

Restaurant and lounge 
Open Sunday to serve your favorite cocktails with live entertainment and dancing 
starting at 8 PM Sunday 
1516 N. Ironwood just east of campus Mon-Sat 11am-1am Sun 4pm-12:30am 
Your Host: Ron DeLaere, N.D. '64 
ATTHE ~Ortiotf _______.. 


All-You-Can-Eat Brunch 
('/" ~.::: 'k-. ' 

On Sundays, it's Brunch at the Marriott 
. )fk-~ 

Ev~rySunday,fromlOvn.w2:.~0p.m.. ( _>;,'c ~·-i 
enjoy Brunch at the Marnott. A stupendous -· -,.__, . -{~--~~ buffet of omelettes, waffles, and bagels, plus ~~-~. ~0~'i"4i 
seafood, salads, cheeses, fruits, assorted hot ~-~~0,·' entrees and vegetables. . ,--~, ·--,w '•, ·. ~..; 
Top your meal off with an array of :, ~~~--~~.
~ J ·-~)~"-·-._ mouth-watenng desserts. ""'~-~-. · 1>:iL ~'.. To add to vour pleasure, there's live~-. --., ·, ~.----~·,.J•
~ -·~f.,~~-­
entertainment too. All for $9.9S ~<·. , i.'~---::-:-;.;;,;"_ • :,. ~ 
for adults, $4.9S for children i. ;:_j -·){....._ ,•>·~l ·'v. B' 
' ' ~'ii-~·-.Jl--'-~ ~t~·
under 12. / ' ",--.·_-~-~ · · 
0 ~-\l't;-/~...'1·· ~:1 l'
.'

For reservations, please call ~--' ~ _ "'"\.~m:}. J~ ' 
(219) H-i-2000. . 
-=--..:--­

r "80 ttomIess" 
glass of Champagne 


~irriott lfottl. 
served 12:30-2:30 p.m. 

123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend, Indiana (no additional charge) 
When Marriott does il, they do it right. 
Arms control position 

Senate committee denies Adelman 
ARE YOUR COLLEGE FINANCES IN CRITICAL CONDITION? 

~\t. ~,, !)!' ~~A~D'.~ 


Joining the Army Reserve can reduce your college costs. 
If you qualify, our Educational assistance program will pay 
up to $1,000 a year of your tuition for four years. 
If you have taken out a National Direct or Guaranteed 
Student Loan since October 1, 1975, our Loan Forgiveness 
Program will repay 15% of your debt (up to $10,000) or $500 
whichever is greater, for each year you serve. 
If you'd like to find out more about how a reserve enlist­
ment can help pay for college, call SGT Hamilton 234-4187; 
Call collect 


ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

said Adelman "is not telling the truth" about remembering the May 1981 encounter which produced a column in the New York Daily News. 
Tom Griscom, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker Jr., R-Tenn., said Baker planned to schedule a floor vote on Adelman in mid-March. 
Actually, Adelman failed to win 

the committee's approval by a much 
narrower margin than that reflected 
in the 14-3 tally that finally moved 
the issue to the full Senate -with a 
negative recommendation. 
The committee rejected by a 9-H 

margin a motion to recommend 
contlrmation. Thi~ was the ~arne a~ 
the lineup in the commi!te last 
week, when a vote was postponed amid suggestions that Reagan withdraw the nomination. 
Two Republican senators, Charles McC Mathias of Maryland and Larry Pressler of South Dakota, joined seven Democrat~ in voting against giving Adelman a favorable recom­mendation. 
On the final committee tallr. Pres­

sler and Democrats Claiborne Pell of 
Rhode Island and Alan Cranston of 
California voted to keep the nomina­
tion bottled up in committee 
Auletta, a columnist for the Daily News, testified under oath at the re­quest of Cranston and Pel!. He said he interviewed Adelman by telephone on \1av 20, 19HI, and a~ked him what he thought of at­tempts to negotiate rt·ductions in nuclear arms. 
He quoted Adelman as saying, "My policy would be to do it for politi<:al reasons. I tlunk it's a ~ham." 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Senate Foreign Relations Committee yesterday heard Kenneth 1.. Adel­man out for a third time, then recommended 14-3 that his nomina­tion as U.S. arms control director be voted down on the floor. 
That still was a victory, ofsorts, for President Reagan, who had stood by Adelman after the panel had balked previously at even moving the nomination from its own table. Despite the negative recommenda­tion, he now will have the support of the Senate. 
At the White llousc, chid of staff James A. Baker Ill declared there was an "excellent chance" that Adel­man would he confirmed when all I 00 senators are asked for the final decision. 
The committee's action followed 
a showdown under oath between 
Adelman and a journalist who had 
quoted him as saying he thought 
arms control talks were a "sham." 
Adelman, again, denied having made 
any such statement and said he did 
not recall the interview. 
The reporter, Kenneth Auletta, 
countered that he "distinctly heard" 
Adelman usc the word "sham'' and 
The Observer Friday, February 25, 1983-page 5 
Price differences 
Saudis threaten OPEC boycotts 
RIYADH. Saudi Arabia (AP)­Saudi Arabia held last-ditch talks with Libya yesterday in an effort to forge a new oil price reduction agreement within OPEC But in­formed sources said the Saudis were growing increasingly skeptical of reaching an accord and might 
boycott an emergency meeting of the cartel. 
Oil Minister Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani met for two hours at his oftke with the Libyan minister, Kamel Hassan Maghur. Yamani later eluded reporters, and Maghur said he had "no comment" on their dis/ cussions_ 
Meanwhile, Venezuelan Energy Minister Humberto Calderon Berti conferred in Paris wih his counter­parts from Kuwait, Algeria and Mexico. Mexico, which is not an 
OPEC member, called for inten­
sification of contacts among OPEC 
and non-OPEC producers to avoid 
an all-out price war. 
The Saudis are believed to be trying to rally the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producers around a new base price of S30 a barrel. a S4 cut. 
They are facing dissension from some of their gulf Arab allies, who are reported demanding immediate action_ There also is opposition from what the Saudis describe as a num­ber of non-committed OPEC states, including Iran and Libya as well as Nigeria and Ecuador. which already have broken the S34 base_ 
Informed sources said the Saudis 

may not attend any new OPEC 
meeting unless an agreement is 
assured of passing. 
"The current negotiations in 
Riyadh are the last chance to save 
what can be saved" for OPEC and 
the world economy. said the leading 
Saudi newspaper Al-Rivadh. The 
paper said the "first wave of reces­
sion'• in a price war would inundate 
all oil producers. 

The latest round ofcuts began last week when Britain and Norwav slashed s3 off the price of thei~ North Sea crude. Nigeria followed up Sunday by cutting SS.SO off the price of its oil. bringing the per­barrel price to 530. For even· SI cut in the oil price, the priee ofgasoline pump should drop two cents a gal­
lon. Secretary ofState George P. Shultz said in Atlanta, Ga., vesterdav that the decline in world .oil pric~s will promote li.S growth. 
New York studies 

Diet supplelnent eases suffering 
NEW York (AP) A non-Tne dietary supplement, called of diet used by ~ettzer, and the diet prescription dietary supplement tryptophan, is available in health could affect the results. taken in combination with a low­food stores, but Seltzer cautioned Seltzer, a dentist, and his col­protein, high-carbohydrate diet has that pain sufferers should not try the leagues tested the regimen on 30 significantly reduced chronic pain diet without medical supervision. people with chronic head and neck in tests with 30 volunteers. a re­"For one thing, if a patient has pain. Half were fed the diet with searcher said yesterday. some pain, it could be serious," he tryptophan. half were given a 
The diet apparently works by said. "They should go to a physician placebo. The subjects were asked to boosting levels of serotonin, a to have it diagnosed." It is also pos­rate the intensity of their pain on a natural, pain-relieving chemical in sible, he said, that the pain is caused scale from zero to one hundred the brain. said Dr. Samuel Seltzer of hy something that can be cured or before and after the dietary treat­the Temple Cniversity School of corrected. ment. Dentistry in Philadelphia. Because the diet tends to make The pain rating dropped from an 
"It's the first time it's been shown. people lose weight, it should be average of 60 before the treatment as ti1r as I know. that through dietary followed only under the direction of to an average of 30 afterwards for manipulation you can alter a a nutritionist, he said. "You don't the group receiving tn·ptophan. patient's pain threshhold," Seltzer want a patient to starve to death." Seltzer said. The rating for the con­said in a telephone interview. Several experts in brain chemistry trol group given a placebo dropped 
said Seltzer's results \Verc: plausible, from 60 toSS, he said. but could not comment further be­Seltzer added that those givc:n cause thev were not familiar with his trvptophan were also found to have work. an increased tol<:ranct· of pain -an
• • .EPA 

Dr. \!arvin Hoft"ert. a neurologist electrical charge applied to a tooth. at the National Institute of Dental A report of the study will appear Research in Bethesda. \hi.. said he in tht· April issue of the.foun/{/f of continuedji·om page 1 was skeptical. The reason. he said, is PsJ•cbiatric Researcb. A brief ac­that serotonin levels in the brain arc count of the: work was publbhcd in nounced vesterdav were: 
determined hy controls in the brain. the Ft·h. 19 issue ofScience '\'eu·s. 
Alfred \\. Zuck. an assistant not bY the amount of serotonin in Tn·ptophan is an amino acid. one secretary oflabor for administration 
the diet. of the chemical sub-units that make ar~d management. to be an acting as­
On the other hand. he said he up proteins. It is required by the sistant administrator ti:Jr administra­
knows of no other research that has hotly but not produced in the body, tion. John P. Horton had been the 
combined tn·ptophan with the kind so it must he obtained in food. assistant administrator for ad­ministration. until he was dismissed on \X'ednesdav. Charles Dempsey, the inspector general at the Department of Housing and l:rban Development. to be the acting inspector general. Mat­thew N. Novick had been the inspec­
February 25

tor general at the EPA until he was 
Claire's Kneer1970r

dismissed on Wednesdav. 
Enc Rohmer France COlor 105 mrn French wrlh E'lgt•sn subtrtles Two plots •ntertw•r'1e In liltS very funny exploratron o! mooern rnoralrty A noveliSt meets an Old 1nend by ct"la.,ce on '"IQirday a'ld decroes to use hrm as rnaterral !or ner new book bu: th•S olot stalls as P.,e second ga•ns momentum-the fr,e.,d s grow·r"'g oosess•or .,.,,1,... C a••e s l('"'ee 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
• • • Coed 

........---lr~u ~ 11113 lt-J lr-$illlilll2 00.__.....
·iilliooi 

continuedfrom paf.!.e 1 
perience will occur in a "more mature and rcalbric environment." 
In the surve,·. students were able to state their preference for a varictv of coed living arrangemenb. These hypothetical situations included a dorm with males and !(:males living on different tloors. with males and fc:males li,·ing on the same tloors. and with males and females ll\·ing in different wing'. hut not necessarilY on different tloors. 
LaFortune Little Theatre
Participants wnc also asked if 


Sunday Feb. 27, 1983 at 7pm
thev would leave their dorm to live in a coed dorm. and if thcv would still reside in their dorm if it were Buses will leave ND/CCE &SMC/Holy Cross: converted into a coed facilitv. Friday March 11, 1983 at 4pm 
Survev results indicate that the 

Buses will return from Pittsburgh Greyhound Terminal: 
majoritv of tho..,e who were ques­
Sunday March 20,1983 at 1pm 
tioned would pretcr a dorm which 
Fares: $45.00 Round Trip NO REFUNDS 
was coed by tloors or by wings. Also. 
$29.00 One·Way
almost all of the participants indi­
NOTE: There will be a short meeting following sign· ups 
cated that they would at least con­
for candidate for club officers
sider the possibility ofcoed housing if it was presented to them as a vaible Questions? Call Brian Lease 1743 option. 



Israel's Dm•id Kimchi (left), and America's Morris Draper dis­cuss jJrosects durin?. a break in Tuesdav's 17th session of the Israeli-Lebanese peace talks held in the resort citv ofNatanva, 20 
miles nortb ofTel Al'iz• ( AP Pboto). ­

The Observer Friday, February 25, 1983 -page 6 


FDR blamed 

Confinement results in criticism 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Siding with President Reagan, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said yesterday that some interest rates charged by banks seem "quite high" in light of recent declines in infla· tion. But he said there was little point in trying to simply talk lenders into lowering rates. 
The best strategy, he said, is to reduce federal budget deficits and hold monetary growth in check, thereby reinforcing gains against in· tlation and assuring an economic, climate in which rates would almost inevitably fall. 
Volcker's comnH:nts at a Senate 
Budget Committee hearing came 
one day after the president told 
reporters interest rates "can and 
should" decline further to avoid 
upsetting thl· economic recovery 
now apparl·ntly undn way. 
Volcker and many economists 

South Bend's Fnmous 
107 East Lasalle ~ Carry Out South Bend, IN 46601 289·8031 Mon.· Thurs. 9:00AM· 10:00 PM Fri.· Sat. 9:00AM· 12:00 Midnight 
Do you remember?  
Grabting  a  couple  of  those  
delicious  Coney  Dogs  while  
waiting  for  the  bus  or  hitch­ 

hiking back to campus ... Come join us & bring back those wonderful memories 
have said interest rates, though down from a year ago, have remained relatively high at least partly because lenders are protect· ing themselves against future infla­tion. 
However, Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan said last week he thought another reason might be that hanks are trying hard to bed up earnings in order to protect them: selves against losses on had loans. And Reagan's comments appeared to he along the same line. 
Sen. Lawton Chiles, D·Fla., asked 
\'olcker, "If the president is now 
jawboning the hanks, why isn't the 
Fed?" 
"I k outranks me." \'olcker 
replied. 
<ioing beyond that wisecrack. thl· 
Fed chairman said interest rates "not 
only ~hould ( tkcline) hut will in the 
kind ofenvironment I foresee." 
One way to convince lenders that inflation wa~ indeed down to sta\ would he to make significant cuts in federal budget ddint~ now projected to he 5200 billion or more in coming years. he said. And he said the Fed itself must not encourage in· tlation by rapidly creating more money to pay h>r those detlcits. 
"It's not going to do any good to jawbone the hanks with our mouths while our actions indicate that intla· tion will go up and therefore interest rates will go up," he said. 
Volcker did add that worry about 
intlation was "not the whole story" 
for the rlatively high rates. "l think 
consumer loan rates are quite high 
(for current conditions). If that's 
what you think I ought to he saying. 
I'm saying it." 
Sen. Donald Riegle, D·Mich., pressed Volcker, "Can't you pick up the phone and relay this message to the lead banks?" 
Volcker said he was glad to give his analysis ofrates in public but was not about to tell the banks what to do. Actually setting rates "is a deci· sion the banks in the end have to make." 

Indiana Bell sends bills to students 
Indiana Bell has changed its policy for dealing with students who hill long distance phone calls to their dorm phones or accept collect calls. These policy changes were not reported in a Feb. I I article. The hill for such calls is sent to the student, not the University, as reported in the article. Also. the student is not charged the full investigative cost for tracing the call. 

Passengers walk down the loading ramp from the hijacked Libyan ArabAirwaysjetliner in which they were hostages for three days after three hijackers released them Wednesday before surrendering to authorities at Malta's Luga Airport in Valletta. One hundred and sixty onepersons were heldfor three days before the siege ended (APPhoto). 
Mickey Gilley 
OFF 


THE WALL 
1 :30-3:15-5:15 7:15-9:15 ~ 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Agovern· ment commission put much of the blame yesterday on President Franklin D. Roosevelt for the World War II internment of 120,000 people of Japanese descent, nut stopped short of recommending cash compensation f(Jr that "grave 

injustice." 
Nonetheless, it appeared certain that compensation will he recom· mended when the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Civilians issues its proposals to Congress, probanly in June. By then, the commission is expected to have completed a study of the economic suffering arising from the two·year 
internment of the enire West Coast 
community ofethnic Japanese. 
The commission found that race 
hatred, war hysteria, and a failure of 
political leadership were the root 
causes of the episode, generally 
regarded as a blot in the nation's his· 
tory. 
But Roosevelt, as the nation's 
leader, received much of the blame 
in the commission's report issued 
yesterday. 
The wartime leader signed the detention order without "any care· ful or thorough review of the situa· tion," the commission said; he did nothing to calm war hysteria aimed at the Japanese on the West Coast; he remained silent when his navy secretary falsely reported that Japanese espionage helped bring 
about America's costly defeat at 
Pearl Harbor, and ht· delayed the 
release of the Japanese for IH 
months after Secretary ofWar Henry 
1.. Stimson said it could no longer be 
justified as a military measure. 
Thl' Japanese Americn Citizens 
League, which had pressed for the 
study, welcomed the report and 
called on the commission members 
to recommend that internees and. 
their heirs be compensated. 
Some members of Congress have 
proposed paying S2"i.OOO to inter· 
nt.·es or their heirs. 
But at a news conference, com· mission members side·stepped the issue. They said they wanted to 
focus attention instead  on  the fin·  
dings  in  their  467·page  report,  
"Personai.Justice Denied."  

The commission declared there was no military necessity behind Roosevelt's decision, taken 10 weeks after Pearl llarhor. Roosevelt was urged to take the step by Srim· son and particularly by the late Lt. Gen. John ). DeWitt, who was in charge of West Coast defenses. 
DeWitt argued that even "Americanized" third·generation Japanese·Americans were threats because of their racial ties to "an enemy race." The commission said those who 
ordered the mass internment could offer no rational justification "except political pre~sure and fear.·· 
l:nder Roosevelt's Executive Or· der 9066 on Feb. i 9, 19-12, American citizens of Japanese des· cent and Japanese immigrants were prohibited from living, working or traveling on the West Coast. 
Allowed to take no more than they could carry in their hands, they were rounded up in "asst·mbly cen· ters" -racetracks and fairgrounds -and then taken to "relocation centers," I 0 bleak barracks camps in desolate areas in California, Arizona, Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah and Arkansas. 
Many lost their homes, farms, businesses, and cars before being allowed to return in late 1944. 







V olcker seeks lower interest rates, defecits 





___, __
......., 
~-~--------------------­

---·-=-...~-­
Friday, February 25, 1983-page 7

Editorials 
Sometimes you have to pay the price 
Life can be called a conglomerate of deci­sions. Each day we have to make many choices between "one course of action or another. These decisions often have both immediate and long-term effects. In r:nany situations, future results are difficult to determine, but in some instances, we can predict fairly ac-
RandyFahs 

Friday Analysis 
curately what will take place and how people will react to it. 
It is these times, when we have a fairly good idea what will take place in the future, that decisions become most difficult to make. People generally do not pick a course of ac­tion which will harm or upset someone else. But it is inevitable that we will do things which other people will not like. 
What is a person to do? All you really can d<) 
is make a decision which best fits the situa­
tion. based on the information that you have at 
that moment. What about the reactions of 
others' You can't merely disregard them; the 
long-term repercussions ofany action must be 
kept in mind. 

L'nfortunately. in our society people worry intensely about "getting ahead" or "succeeding." They will do anything to please others, even if it means not selecting the best course ofaction. In this scenario, life becomes 
a series of social, political. and employment­oriented games where people try to please others so that they might receive accolades, financial rewards, or positions of importance. This is tragic because it sacrifices integrity and efficiency for personal gain. In essence. it is a description of what is commonly known as selling out orkissing ... (well, you all knou• what). 
Even though ·we are taught ethics and trained to be able to tell the difference be­tween right and wrong. the vast majority o t f the people will do whatever is necessary to get ahead, while they give lip-service to lofty principles and virtues. It is common in the business world to push aside values and in­tegrity in order to make a profit. but it is equal­ly common in all phases of life for people to close their eyes to what they believe in if it will lead them to personal advancement. 
Such a turn of events can be quite dis­heartening. It may be difficult to stand up for what you believe in and do what is right, but one must remember that personal integrity cannot be valued in terms of money or posi­tions of importance. It is never easy r to pick a course of action which will lead to violent criticism or personal sacrifice, but ifyour con­science means anything to you, then it would be even more difficult to sell out for what you believe in. 
It takes a great deal of courage to stand up 
for what you believe in when people around 
you might get hostile or seek revenge. It 
would be nice to please everyone, but we all 
know that this is just a fantasy. When the battle 
heats up and the artillery begins to fly, the 
false friends will shrink from your side. but the 
true friends will remain. You can't measure 
success in how well a person bows down to 
the whims ofothers, but you can measure it in 
terms ofpersonal integrity. 
What I am basicallly trving to say is this: Do what is right and what you believe in, because if you sell your values and principles, then it 
doesn't matter how much money you make or how fast you climb up the ladder of employ· ment. It is not always easy to hold onto your personal integrity. Sometimes you have to pay the price of malicious criticism and disap­pointment in what vou seek, but at least vou won't have lost thos~ personal qualii:ies which are most important to being human. 



P. 0. BoxQ 
the right to live, such as Nazi Germany or tide is that making abortion illegal will only "vocational objectives." In answer to that present day Iran, have always been con­force women to other, more "dangerous" rather materialistic, selfish point of view, it
Life's challenge 
demned. That is because society cannot just sources for abortion. Therefore, the argu­may be said that responsibility is caring for DearEditor: allocate rights as it sees fit. Being a member ment goes, to eliminate back-alley abortions, one's child when "vocational objectives" 
On Monday, Feb. 21, The Observer printed ofthe human race, in which all members are legalize it. One should consider that follow­may be affected. the rather lengthy opinion ofan anonymous equal, demands such rights. To deny the un­ing this line of reasoning, heroine abuse and 6. One statement from the article declares pro-abortionist. The article was entitled born these rights is to deny them not be­mugging should be legalized. After all, they that, "to equate personhood with an unborn "The Challenge to be pro-choice." In fair­cause they are physically not human life, for occur anyway and legalization would bring fetus is to dehumanize the woman, to con­ness to Observer readers, and to present they are. It is not because God did not create them out into the open where it is safer. sider her a mere 'thing' through which the both sides of the issue, I would like to point the unborn in His image as He created us, for Does this really make sense' fetus passes." I fail to see how the ack­out a few areas where the anonymous author He did. But, it is because society has decided 5. The pro-abortionist contends that nowledgement of one person's rights can be opposed. that there are things more important than parents violate their responsibility when dehumanizes another. furthermore, al­
I. With respect to the beginnings of life, some lives. Today's society, as those in the they bring am unwanted child into this though I am a man, I think most women the anonymous author lists conception, past, has no right to do this to any member of world. Further, the author feels abortion en­would agree that the ability to bring a child birth, and viability, the point at which an un­the human race. courages responsibility in "family, sexual, into this world is an exciting, loving thrill born child can exist outside the womb, as 2. The anonymous author referred to pro­and community matters." This is a perverse that adds to the specialness ofwomankind. It possible starting points. However, not all of lifers' insensitivity "to the problems of un­sense of responsibility..One must consider is the assertion that the developing fetus is these can be correct. Either the unborn wanted pregnancies and their drastic effects what responsibility means, and its role in not life that dehumanizes this beautiful child is a human life or not. Consider the on the future lives of the children as well as this situation. Responsibility comes before a process, nor the acknowledgement of the viability. Ten years ago, medical technology the entire family." This is an ironic accusa­child is conceived, including taking all unborn's rights. could not keep infants of 30 weeks develop­tion from a proponent of the killing of in­proper precautions, nor the least ofwhich is These are just a few observations that ment alive outside the womb. Now, that nocent human life. One could. say abstinence. Responsibility does not mean come to mind when reading this article. time has been pushed back to 20 weeks. pro-abortionists are rather insensitive to the walking from a life one has helped create, Many more could be made. I ask the reader Sooner or later it may be from conception. future of unborn children. The fact is, pro­and that goes for men as well as women. to keep these observations in mind. Most im­Thus, viability as a life-determining-factor lifers are aware of today's problems. Responsibility means unselfish loving and portantly, keep in mind what means the suggests that ten years ago a 20 week old Economic hardship, unwanted pregnancies, giving, not selfishly considering only one's most to man -life and his respect for it. unborn child was not a human life, but now hostile living conditions are not new own rights and situation. Also, the sexual Without this. he has nothing. Therefore, as that child is. Obviously, there is a lack ofob­problems. They have been with society permissiveness abortion promotes, due to Jesus Christ taught, avoid the easy way our. jective reasoning here. The point is, it is throughout time. However, one does not its easy-way-out alternative, hardly seems to Instead, be the loving, responsible person science that is changing, not the unborn. solve a problem with another problem. Kill­enhance sexual responsibility. Lastly. the God asks us to be. Accept the pro-life chal­Such a changing, subjective criterion for life ing the unborn is not the answer. A better author even felt the unborn's life should be lenge. is irrational and unacceptable. distribtion of society's resources and a weighed with things such as a couple's Daniel R.joseph 
Birth as a life-determining-factor has recommittment to family life are proper similar problems. Birth, as the release of the solutions. Granted, they are not easy to baby from the mother's womb, is a change in achieve. But, the easiest path is not always location for the baby. A new-born baby lives the best. Jesus Christ did not ask man to look outside the womb and is still totally depend­for the easy way out. He asked that man look ent on others to survive. However, the baby for the loving way. Killing human life is not still has the same cells, brain, heart, and body loving. inside the womb as outside it. The fact is, the 3. The pro-abortionist author felt mankind baby is the same. The only change is the should be concerned with the "quality and baby's location. It is merely society's view of potential ofaffirmative life, not its quantity." the baby that changes. A view that is based I ask, how is the quality of life enhanced by on location, not the value ofhuman life, also the decrease in respect for it' How can the is irrational. quality oflife increase when some want only 
Thus, one is left with the one appropriated to concern themselves with "affirmative" starting point for life, one that takes into ac­life? What about those considered as count the rights ofall, nor just the strong and "negative" life? This rather judgmental state­powerful. That point is conception, where ment places a price tag on life -only if it is human egg and sperm meet to form their on­worth so much to society can it exist. This is ly conclusion -human life. What makes life hardly the principle of a free and equal valuable at that point is that it is "human," . society, and hardly a reflection of God's call and thus deserves all the individual rights all for man to love as He does -unconditional­human beings deserve. This country is based ly. Finally, what is to stop this overzealous on the belief that all people are entitled to concern with the so-called "quality" of life certain rights. Christianity holds that all are from seeping outside the womb? When will created equally in God's image. Societies "negative" factors be considered atter hirth' that oppress people, deny them their human Is infanticide next' rights, or feel that individuals must "earn" -i. Another curious point made in that ar-

IheO~r==========  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Box Q, .'liotre Dame, LV 4655fi The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the tjni­versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eit~er institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Editor-in-Chief............. ...... Michael Monk Managing Editor ................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................. Paul McGinn Features Editor ............................ Joe Musumeci Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount  BusinessManager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley Founded November 3, 1966  
(219)239-5303  


········4··········································································· 



~~S H0 W C '~iiiiiiSiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiFiiridiiayii,
Feiibriiuaryii2ii5,iii198iiii3iiiiipagiie8iiiiiiil 


memoties of pClin, pet 
actress, hut your mother is a vaudevillian actress, and

Nick LaFiame 
her medium is dying. She has raised you among her troupe, and acting is all you know. You'd like to make your own name, preferably in the legitimate theatre,

theatte pteview hut in Depression America, what choice have you? There are few chances for you to find a job, let alone 
I 
magine yourself, if you will, as a teenage girl in 1933. 
make a name for yourself. 

You are the daughter of a reasonably well-known 
Marathon '33, the latest production of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre, tells how one girl in such a situation entered the strange world of the dance marat­hon. It is a classic coming ofage tale as the protagonist, known simply as june, proves to herself that she can survive in the brutal atmosphere ofthe dance marat­hon. It is almost a celebration ofdetermination and of following dreams in a cruel world. 
According to Reginald Bain, the play's director, this may he troublesome for some people. The predominant -image of the dance marathon for many people comes from the movie They Shoot Horses, Don't They? in which a contestant is driven to suicide by th~ degrada­tion and dehumanizing elements ofsuch a marathon. However, Bain feels that the play was written in a war­mer, reminiscent light hy the.play's author,June Havoc. 
The play is based on a section of Miss Havoc's first autohiography,Ear/yHavoc. First presented in 1963 by the Actors' Studio under the late Lee Strasbourg, it was seen at first as a theatrical documentary on the dance marathon. Nevertheless, Bain feels that this does not necessarily have to he so. He much prefers to see it in light ofthe autobiography and the reminiscent qualities 


Ptague does thtee 
smetd 

one 4ould be 
ooti:{ied \ll h~l1125 Gc:tb (»>n, dean 
/ <3\('. 

T
here is an old question among listeners and tem­peramental performers about the necessity and value ofconductors to orche~tras. The Prague Chamber Orchestra proved last night through three incredible encores that symphonic music of the highest quality can be produced without the interpretive personality ofa conductor. "The Prague" was simply stupendous. Should I have expected less? I must admit that I did. 
I knew that the orchestra was the object of rave 
reviews throughout the course ofits last few American 
tours. I knew the orchestra had originated in one of 
concert teview 
Mozart's towns; Prague was the birthplace ot "Don 
Giovani" because ofthe town's near riotous acceptance 
of"The Marriage of Figaro." But I was still spoiled from 
Pinellas Zuckerman and the St. Paul Chamber Or­
chestra's closing of Ravinia and performances by the 
Paillard Chamber Orchestra. I was also skeptical ofany 
group ofthirty-six members that was performing"sans" conductor. My skepticism could not have been more unfounded. The company's recording successes should have given me a clue. 
The attacks and releases were clear throughout the performance, and there was an almost uncanny unanim­ity of tempo and dynamics. Direction was not lacking. The performance was characterized by an unusual sen­sitivity for internal balance, smooth blend, and smart precision. This burst forth in the opening strains of Johann Christian Bach's "Grand Overture for Double Orchestra in E flat major, opus 1H" and continued with· out exception through the third encore, Dvorak's "Czech Dance." There was, however, a brieflapse in the concert, but it did not come from the orchestra. The pianist Boris Krajany, who was lyrically convincing 
though a bit heavy-handed and blunt in his interpreta· 
tion of Mendelssohn's "Concerto no. 1 in G minor," in 
completing his performan~e supported hy a superior 
string section brought one lady in the audience to such 
heights that she jumped to her feet measures before the end and remained there chanting, "Bravo!" until the conclusion of the piece. The brisk, extensive arpeggios and scales of Mendelssohn's last two movements can understandably have that affect. After all, he was a latter contemporary of" the Father of Romanticism"-Beet­hoven. This lady was a hit out ofcharacter and time per­haps, hut the entire audience reacted in the same unrestrained, enthusiatic manner throughout the three 
encores. 
Coincidentally, the second half started in the same romantic mood, with Beethoven's "Overture to Collin's 'Coriolan."' I was especially rewarded in the second half by the "Serenades no. 2 and no. 3" ofcontemporary Czech composer Bohuslav Martinu. His arrangement in "no. 2" for violin and cello gave a much deserved high­light to the "sweetness and light" string section. Par­ticularly in the gorgeous Poco Adante second 
movement of"no. 2" and the delightfully lilting "no. 3" 
the audience could witness an interpretive agreement 
among the musicians that is normally reserved for 
string quartets and trios with years ofexperience 
performing together. 
Mozart's "Symphony no. 35 in D major" provided a t1tting tlnale for this wonderful group from his town. The crowd was once again on its feet, and even this grizzled critic abandoned his one-man crusade against ovation-liberal Notre Dame-Saint Mary's audiences by standing to my personal favorite, the boisterous and popping "Gavotte" by Prokofiev. 
An encore was followed by two Dvorak pieces, the "Czech Dance" and "Humouresque." All contributed to the glee of the shamefully small, twenty-percent short ofcapacity O'Laughlin throng. Concert enthusiast Bren­dan Brown summed up the night well, saying, "It was undoubtedly the best two dollars I have ever spent on a concert." Inexpensive admission purchased tremen­dous entertainment. To the staffofThe Performing Arts Series and Columbia Artists I want to extend a warm 
thank-you for lifting us out ofthe mid-winter doldrums. 
And for those ofyou who passed up a chance to fill 
those few empty seats for the monotony ofstudy, or 
Corby's, or for Marriott's "Tankard Night" I can only say 
through my utter contentment,--"Your loss." 



--Alumni reminisce -page 3-B 

VOL XVII. NO. IOS FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2S. 1983-PAGE IB 
. IRISH EXTRA a . In Memoriam •• ND hockey (1968-83) 
'Thanks for the memories ' 
-'Lefty' looks back at the glory days of the last 15 years while contemplating his own future 
Irish play host to Illinois-Chicago this weekend in last varsity series at the ACC 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports Writer 
This is it. 

It's the long-awaited final scene. The Notre Dame 
hockey team's "shangra-la" under the ACC's North 
Dome has finally arrived. 

The opponent for two games this weekend is Illinois­
Chicago, and at stake is a CCHA playoff berth. If that is 
not enough to make this weekend special, then the fact 
that 20 young men will be playing their last varsity 
home game for the Irish surely qualities it as such. 
But above all else, the Notre Dame hockey team 
wants to make it to the playoffs, and finish this season in 
a vindictive blaze of glory. One victory this weekend 
will clinch the eighth and t1nal CCHA playoff spot. 
It would appear that the Irish have everything in their 
favor. Over the last four games, they have earned five 
points against top·ranked Bowling Green and No. "l 
Ohio State, two teams whose combined record this 
season is a spectacular 4 7-12-9. This weekend brings 
with it the players' moms and dads f(Jr the traditional 
Parents Weekend. And finally, consider that Illinois­Chicago is in the CCHA basement with a 6-26-2 mark. 
"Psychologically, we have good things going for us," 
says Irish coach Lefty Smith. "But there are times when 
these kinds of situations can work against you. You can 
get too tight because there's too many distractions." 
The Flames are paced by Rich Blakev, their senior .standout goalie. Blakey. who has played in all but three 
contests, has stopped an astounding 1,003 pucks from 
entering the cage thus far this season. 

By ED DOMANSKY 
!>ports Writer 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Charles "Left)•" Smith has sen•ed as Notre Dame's bockev coach since 1968. In fact, Smith bas been tbe on/)' coach tbe team bas knou•n since it gained varsit)• status. In bis 15 years as bead coach, Smith has ex­perienced many things and collected many memories. In tbis article, tbe coach recalls some of those most memorable et•ents. 
When Lefty Smith thinks of Notre Dame hockey. he goes 
hack to the beginning and his meeting with then-Athletic 
Director Moose Krause when the two discussed the brand 
new ACC and what Notre Dame would do with a varsitv 
hockey program. . 
"I had always admired Notre Dame even though I hadn't gone to school here," says Smith. "I had admired it from the principles by which it stood, and to project yourself as pos­sibly being a part ofthe Notre Dame a htmily, ofcourse, was a very exciting time." 
Since joining the Notre Dame family, Smith h;,ts witnessed many seasons -IS, in tact. He looks hack timdly on two of his most memorable. 
"The first one would be the inaugural season," says Smith. "There was so much that had to he done (he and assistant coach Tim :\1cNeill had to set up the pro shop. buy all the necessary equipment for the rink and make sure the team would be ready to go when the season started). The thrill of seeing a new program develop and the enthusiasm of the gu\·s here at the time made it very special." 
Also standing out in Smith's mind is the 19-2--:\ season in which Notre Dame finished second in the WCIIA, won its first-round playoff series hut lost a heartbreaker in the next round to eventual national champion Wisconsin. 
"This was the highest anybody t1nished with a relatively new club." says the 52-year-old Smith. "If we had won that game you have to wonder what effect it might have had on the entire program." 
Should he stop 6S shots this weekend, he will break 
the CCHA single-season record t(Jr saves. The record i~ 
held by Steve Weeks -currently a goaltender t(Jr the 
NHL's New York Rangers -who made 1.06"' saves in 
the 19.,9-80 season for Northern :\1ichigan. 
Blakey's goals against average is rather high at -i .., I. 
but he is coming off a strong performance against W es­
tern Michigan and could pose some probkms for lrbh 
shooters. 

"Blakey is a tough nut to crack," says Smith. "Had it not been for his superb play, they would have had even more trouble this season." 
On offense, the Flames are lead by a pair of sopho­mores, joe jackman and Colin Chin. jackman has ac­counted for 2.3 points, while Chin leads the team in goals with just 1.3. These figures clearly show that UIC's strength is on defense. 
Although Illinois-Chicago has only J.j points to show tor its efforts this season, the Flames gave the lrbh all they could handle at the season's outset. They soundly thrashed ND on a Friday evening in November, 11-2, and the next day it took four unanswered goals for the Irish to overcome an early det1cit and win, S--t. 
Aside from Notre Dame's incentives, the Flames also have good reason for a solid performance this weekend. Illinois-Chicago has let it oe known that they plan on joining the Western Collegiate Hockey As­sociation -the league Notre Dame belonged to het{Jre they transferred to the CCHA -perhaps as early as next 
See FLAMES, page 48 
Kirt Bjork 
\\;'ell, the program slowly expanded. and over the years Smith has coached many teams. Which one stands out the most' 
"It's dift1cult to single one team out," says Smith. "Each team that we've had. has had its own personality and dif­ferent aspects that have made them something special." 
His inaugural squad of 196H-H9 stands out somewhat, though. 
"They had a closeness that was unbelievable," he said. "Yet at the same time it's amazing to see the '72-'7.3 team get t hack together anytime there's a wedding, a funeral or any­thing like that. 
"This year's club has probably impressed me as much as any. Not because of our record, hut because we started out the year with a lot ofadver~ity in regards to injuries, and now the adversity surrounding the demise of the program. and yet they have handled all of this with maturation far beyond what their ages would tell." 
Smith's teams have played many games over the years, 
both at home and on the road, and of course some will al­
ways stand out more than others. As far as home games ago, 
the coach looks hack three years ago to a game with Wiscon­
sin, during which his daughter was giving birth to his t1rst 
grandchild. 
What makes it so memorable t(Jr Smith is the fact that his 
daughter had lost her tirst child at childbirth -and nearly 
her own life as well. .\1oreo\·er, she was warned not to have 
another child. 
"She was going through delivery during the course of the game," recalls Smith, "and because of the previous health problems we were very concerned as to what would hap­pen. Yet at the same time the game against Wisconsin was such a big game as it ended up being my 200th win here at Notre Dame." 
On the road the coach remembers two events in par­ticular. During the 1971-72 campaign his team traveled to 
See LEFTY, page 48 



The Irish Extra -Hockey Friday, February 25, 1983 -page 2B 
CAREER SCORING LEADERS SEASON SCORING LEADERS 
SCORING BY POSITIONS G A Pts. GP G A Pts. Yr. 
Goals in a season By a center: 31 Phil W11tl1ff 11968-69. 24 Bnan Walsh 89 145 234 140 Edd1e Burnbacco 43 47 90 72-73 
games)
John Noble 81 145 226 123 Bnan Walsh 30 47 77 76·77 By a leh wing: 43 Edd1e Burnbacco 11972­Edd1e Burnbacco 103 117 226 133 Greg Mered1th_ 40 31 79-80
71 73. 38 games) lan Williams 92 119 211 126 I an Williams 34 69 72-73
35 By a right wing: 40 Greg Mered1th 11979­Dave Poulin 89 107 196 135 Bnan Walsh 18 47 65 75-76 
80. 38 games) Greg Mered1th 104 88 186 149 John Noble 22 41 63 72-73 
By a defenseman: 15 Paul Clarke Paul Regan 89 97 186 125 John Noble 19 42 61 71-72 
1 1975· 76. 37 games) Clark Harn1lton 70 113 183 145 Clark Harn11ton 22 38 60 75-76 
K1rt Bjork 73 79 152 137 Torn M1chalek 15 44 59 79-80 B1ll Rothstein 69 78 147 148 Dave Poulin 28 31 59 78-79 Goals in a career Jeff Logan 75 71 146 147 John Noble 24 35 59 69-70 By a center: 89 Dave Poulin ( 1978-82. 135 Torn Michalek 46 87 133 143 games) Don F a1rholrn 50 81 131 118 By a leh wing: 104 Greg Mered1th (1976­
CAREER GOAL LEADERS 

Kev1n Nugent 54 75 129 131 80. 149 games) 
G GP 

Kew1 Humphreys 55 71 141 By a right wing: 92 lan Will1arns (1970-74.
126 ------------------­
126 games) Greg Meredith 104 149 
By a defenseman: 38 Paul Clarke ( 1973­
Edd1e Burnbacco 103 133 77. 121 games)

I an Williams 92 126 Paul Regan 89 125 Bnan Walsh 89 140 
Assists in a season 
John Noble 81 123 
By a center: 4 7 Bnan Walsh 11975-76. 38 
K1rt BJork 73 137 

games) · Ph1IW1ttliff 72 85 
By a leh wing: 4 7 Edd1e Burnbacco ( 1972­
Clark Hamilton 70 145 

73. 38 games) Dave Poulin 60 96 
By a right wing: 35 ian Williams 11972-73. 
Alex P1rus 59 95 

35 games) Ray Delorenzi 55 105 
By a defenseman: 37 Jeff Brownsch1dle 

Kevm Humphreys 55 141 Mark Kronholm 
I 1979-80. 39 games) Jeff Logan 55 107 
Assists In a career , 
NOTRE DAME TEAM RECORDS GOALTENDING RECORDS SEASON GOAL LEADERS 
By a center: 145 Bnan Walsh (1973-77. 
Games SavesG Yr. 

140 games) Played: 4011981-82. 23-15-2) In a period: 30 D1ck Tornason1 11 st vs WIS­------------------145 John Noble 11969-73. 123 Won: 2311981-82. 23-15-2) consin, 1 -31-69) 
Edd1e Burnbacco 43 72-73 games) 23 11972-73, 23-14-1) In overtime: 14 Len Moher 12-28-75, NO 3,Greg Meredith 40 79-80 By a leh wing: 117 Edd1e Burnbacco 11970-Lost: 2411977-78, 12-24-2) W1scons1n 3)lan Williams 34 72-73 74, 133garnes) Tied: 3 13 t1rnes, last 1976-77, 22-13-3) fn a game: 68 Mark Kronholrn 12-16-73.

Ph1IW1ttliff 31 68-69 By a right wing: 1191an W1ll1arns 11970-74, M1ch1gan St 10, NO 2)Bnan Walsh 30 76-77 126 games) Goals Scored In a season: 1113 Mark Kronholrn 11973­Paul Regan 30 71-72 By a defenseman: 95 John Schrn1dt 11978-In a period: 8 13rd, 12-6-70, NO 10, St 74. 36 games) Dave Poulin 29 81-82 82, 152 games) Marys 1) In a career: 2756 D1ck Tornasonll1968-72,PhiiWittliff 29 69-70 In a game: 1811921-22. NO 18, Culver 1) 87 7 games) Dave Poulin 28 78-79 In a season: 204 11972-73, 38 games) Greg Mered1th 28 78-79 Points in a season ShutoutsPaul Regan 27 69-70 By a center: 77 Bnan Walsh (1976-77, 38 Assists In a season: 2 J1rn Crowley ( 1921-22. 9Don Fa1rholrn 26 76-77 games) In a period: 12 (3rd, 2-10-80, Mmnesota­games)

By a leh wing: 90 Edd1e Burnbacco 11972­

Duluth 9. NO 8) In a career: 4 Mark Kronhoi'T' (1970-74) 
73, 38 games) ­In a game: 2212-23-69. NO 14, Purdue 4) 
By a right wing: 71 Greg Mered1th 11979­
SEASON ASSIST LEADERS 

In a season: 330 11979-80, 39 games) Goals against average80, 38 games) 
A Yr. In a season: 1 33 J1rn Crowley (1921-Z2. 9
By a defenseman: 51 Jeff Brownsch1dle

------------------Points games)Bnan Walsh 
11979-80, 39 games) 
47 76-77 In a period: 18 (3rd, 2-10-80, Minnesota­In a career: 4 12 Mark Kronholrn 11970-74, Bnan Walsh 47 75-76 Duluth 9. NO 8) 82 1 games) Eddie Burnbacco 47 72-73 Points In a career In a game: 36 (2-23-69. NO 14, Purdue 4) Torn M1chalek 44 
79-80 By a center: 234 Bnan Walsh 11973-77, In a season: 532 11979-80, 39 games) Wins John Noble 42 71-72 140 games) 
In a season: 20 Mark Kronholrn 1 1972-73) John Noble 41 

72-73 By a leh wing: 220 Eddie Burnbacco 11970-Consecutive victories In a career: 46 D1ck Tornasonll1968-72. 88 Clark Harn11ton 38 75-76 74, 133 games) 7. from Feb 17 to Mar 8. 1973 games)Jeff Brownsch1dle 37 79-80 
By a right wing: 211 lan W1ll1arns 11970-74,

Brian Walsh 
Jack Brownsch1dle 35 76-77 126 games) 
Consecutive losses Winning percentagelan W1lliarns 35 72-73 By a defenseman: 123 John Schrn1dt 8, tw1ce. from Oct 28 to Nov 19. 1977 and In a career: 563 D1ck Tornasom 146-35-6,
ND's all-time leading scorer 

John Noble 35 69-70 11978-82, 152 games) from Jan ~8 to Feb 19. 1972 1968-72) 
The ones who made it big •• 
.a
-
-
1i¥. 


ALEX PIRUS ('76) DONJACKSON ('78) GREG MEl Defenseman Defenseman Rigl Minnesota North Stars Minnesota Nllrth Stars Calga Detroit Red Wings Edmonton Oilers Now in Now retired from game Now in 3rd NHL season, second with the Oilers GP G A Pts. GP G A Pts. GP G 169 30 28 58 84 2 12 14 21 4 



I •. 
I. 

The Irish Extra -Hockey Friday, February 25, 1983-page 3B 


In pursuit of goals
+---....­

Hockey alumni--doctors and_ lawyers alike· credit NO with an assist for their success 


lan Williams 
INDIVIDUAL RECORDS Goals In a period: 4 tan Wllliarns 112-29-71. Dartrnouth 9. NO 6) 
In a game: 5 ian Williarns (12-29· 71. Dartrnouth 9. NO 6) In a season: 43 Edd1e Burnbacco 11972-73, 38 garnes) In a career: 104 Greg Meredith 11976-80, 149 garnes) 
Hat tricks Quickest: 6 50 John Noble (2-23-73, NO 8. W1sconsm 5) In a season: 5 Edd1e Burnbacco (1972· 73, 38 garnes. 43 goals) 
In a career: 8 Bnan Walsh 11973-77, 140 
garnes. 89 goals) 
8 Edd1e Burnbacco 11970-74, 
133 garnes. 103 goals) 
8 Dave Poulin 11978-82, 135 
garnes. 89 goals) 
Assists In a game: 5 Torn Michalek 110-28-78. NO 
9. Colorado College 8) 5 Jack Brownsch1dle (1-15-77. NO 10. M1Ch1gan St 3) 5 Steve Curry (2-8-74, NO 8. M1ch1gan St 3) 

In a season: 47 Bnan Walsh (1975-76, 38 garnes. 1976-77. 38 garnes) 
Season  w  L  T  Pet.  Coach  
1912-13  1  2  0  .333  G.R.Walsh  
1919-20  2  0  0  1.000  P. Castner  
1920-21  2  1  0  .667  P. Castner  
1921-22  8  1  0  .889  P. Castner  
1922-23  6  2  0  .750  P. Castner  
1923-24  0  4  0  .000  T. Lieb  
1924-25  0  2  2  .250  T. Lieb  
1925-26  3  2  1  .583  T. Lieb  
1926-27  3  7  1  .318  B. G. DuBois  

1928-67 NO VARSITY HOCKEY PLAYED 
1968-69 16 8 3 .667 C. Smith 1969-70 21 8 1 .724 C. Smith 1970-71 13 16 2 .448 C. Smith 1971-72 14 20 0 .412 C. Smith 1972-73 23 14 1 .622 C. Smith 1973-74 14 20 2 . 412 C. Smith 1974-75 13 22 3 .376 C. Smith 1975-76 19 17 2 .528 C.Smitt> 1976-77 22 13 3 .629 C.Smi 
1977-78 12 24 2 .342 C. Smith 1978-79 18 19 1 .487 C. Smith 1979-80 18 20 1 .474 C. Smith 1980-81 13 21 2 .389 C. Smith 1981-82 23 15 2 .605 c. Smith 1982-83 11 19 2 .380 C. Smith 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 
In the past 1 5 years, the Notre Dame hockey program 
ha~ provided its fans with some astounding victories, 
some nail-biting losses, and perpetually exciting action. 
More importantly though, in the last decade and a half, the Notre Dame hockey program has provided the real world with a corps of bright. quality young men who have found success in life after Notre Dame. 
In times like these, when college athletics is under fire for numerous academic inadequacies, it is refresh­ing to learn about a program that is untouched by such corruption. 
Boasting a 100 percent gradation rate, the program has sent 13 former players into higher education to pursue advanced degrees in medicine, law, engineering and business administration. The program has also produced five all-Americans while eight Irish alumni have spent time either in the NHL or their related farm teams around the country. The other 70 players have successfully found their place in the work force as <ic­countants, teachers, executives and other reputable professionals. 
Many of the alums don't believe that it was just fate that turned out this fine group of people. They are con­vinced that it was the experiences they encountered at Notre Dame, and especially on the Notre Dame hockey team, that properly prepared them for their roles in life. 
"I can't believe that you could take a random sample and come up with the same fine quality of people that the Notre Dame hockey team has had," says john Rosel­li, a former winger for Notre Dame from 1968-71 who is now a lawyer in-Chicago and coaches a pee-wee hockey team from the northern suburbs. "It (the success offor­mer players) has a lot to do with Notre Dame, but I thnk it's more indicative of the type of kids that play hockey there." 
John Noble, who played center from 1969-73 and is the second leading scorer in Irish history, agreed with ex-teammate Roselli. 
"First it's a function ofthe type ofstandards that exist at Notre Dame," Noble says. "But it's also a result ofthe 
potential elite group of people that are on the hockey 
team." 
Noble cited valuable abilities such as self-discipline 
and decision-making as the gains he received from com· 
petition. It was those rewards that helped him later on. 
Dr. Mike Collins, an orthopedic surgeon who also 
earned a law degree, played ·center for Notre Dame 
from 1968-70. For Collins, the discipline that Noble 
referred to was the key. 
"It was definitely difficult to play and still be agood 
student," he says. "But the discipline you learn is of ut­
most importance." 
The combination of academics and athletics was not the only balancing act the players had to perform, according to Ian Williams. who is now an accountant in Toronto. 
"You gain training in a competitive environment," Williams says. "You have to balance your own in­dividual ideas with the ideas ofothers. That's a fine line that carries on all throughout life." 
It's easier to respect the opinions ofothers when you 
are able to respect the people themselves. As for Wil­
liams, he had no problem admiring his teammates. 
"It was really a good experience to play with players 
that were of such a high quality -as people and 
players," he says. "You can really help each other to play 
better. I've never played with as good players as I did at · 
Notre Dame." 
The camaraderie and spirit among the players is an 
added benefit that the alums appreciated. Current assis­
tant coach Len Moher, who played goalie in a Notre 
Dame uniform from 1974-78, cited that benefit as a top 
priority. 
"The No. I thing about playing four years for Notre. Dame was playing with a class group ofpeople," Moher says. "I grew up in the East-900 miles away from here. I came in with a big hockey class -II people. They were kids from all different parts of the country and different backgrounds." 
According to Brian Walsh, a former all-America cen­ter at Notre Dame, Moher hit the nail on the head. 
See ALUMNI, page 48 

Now playing in Germany  all with the Blues  
A  Pts.  GP  G  A  Pts.  GP  G  A  Pts.  
3  7  207  12  51  63  332  34  127  161  

~~-­

----------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~~------~------------~~~~~ ~ -----­
The Irish Extra -Hockey 
continuedfrom page I B "We were playing Michigan," 
Smith remembers. "and we had been his home state of Minnesota to take telling the kids that if s<imebody on a highly favored University of wants to start tlghting with you, just Minnesota team. cover up, don't swing back and let 
"We went up there and we beat them get the penalty. Show some them two nights in a row," says discipline." A Wolverine player then Smith. "An old coaching adversary of picked a fight with the 6~ I, 210­mine was their coach at the time, pound jackson, and f(JIIowing or~ and to beat them two nights in a row ders, jackson took every punch was a real highlight." without r~::taliating. 
Lefty also remembers this season's "We were really proud," says 8-7 come-from-behind victory at Smith. "What's really sad, though, is Western Michigan. that he followed our orders and still 
"We had just gone through the got penalized ( f(mr minutes). Some emotional trauma of the final an­of his peers on campus even sort of nouncement about dropping the tended·to think he was on the gut­program, we were down by three less side because he didn't swing goals with three minutes to play, and back." again my daughter was having a In his 15 years, Smith has coached baby," says Smith. "To come back many fine players who were also fine and tie the game and win it in gentlemen. But Smith finds it dif ovenime showed a lot ofcharacter." ficult to choose any one player who 
When Smith's teams are on the best exemplifies Notre Dame hock~ 
road they adhere to a tight schedule, ey. especially in regards to making "I look back," he says, "and I don't buses. The coach maintains a strict think I could single out just one; but policy that if a player misses the bus, there were some very interesting he must take a taxi and pay for it out ones." 
of his own pocket. One ofthe more intriguing stories 
Several years ago while on a trip to involves former defenseman Pat Denver, one of his star players -McMahon, who played with the Irish Brian "Dukie" Walsh, .now NO's all­in 1968 and 1969. time leading scorer-was standing. McMahon was at West Point in about a block from the approaching 1968~ but left there just after bus, expecting it to stop. The bus, ·orientation wanting instead to en­however, kept going and his Sl2 taxi roll at Notre Dame. There were only 
ride to the airport left him fuming. a few days before school started and 
Later in the year while the team it was too late for fall admission, but was in Grand Forks, N.D., they were he came anyway. scheduled on a 7 a.m. flight for "We showed him around, and which they had to be out of bed by were hopeful that he could at least 
5:30. To get even with the coach, get in for the second semester," says Walsh cancelled the wake-up call to Smith. His transcript was reviewed Smith's room, and. called him from and due to his fine academic record the airport asking when he would be and also a large number ofcancella­there. tions, McMahon was accepted for 
"To find a taxi between 5:30 and 6 the first semester. in the morning in Grand Forks is a ''I'll never forget," recalls Smith. little on the tough side," says Smith "The young man turned around and with a laugh. "When I did get there, the first thing he did was go over to Brian had the whole club lined up Sacred Heart to thank the good Lord and they had the biggest laugh." for making this possible." 
Smith obviously enjoys being McMahon played for two seasons, with his players -"I try to stay in but then left the team to spend more tune with their situation," he says. At time pursuing his engineering de­the same time, he receives the gree-"He went out and is now the respect he deserves from being their head of an economic development 
.:oach. corporation." boasts Smith. 
Lefty recalls an incident involving Every one of Lefty's former a former player, Don Jackson, cur­players has graduated, and many rently a defenseman with the Ed­have moved on to careers unrelated monton Oilers of the National to hockey. In light ofthe University's Hockey League. recent decision to drop hockey as a 
• • • Flames 
r 
continuedfrom page I B 
l season. Agood showing this weekend would " go along way towards enhancing their prospects," commented Smith. · Although the Flames do not have a big scoring punch, they are a physical club, and Smith is not taking them lightly. "They have everything to gain and nothing to lose," says Smith. "They can be dangerous." Should the Irish win one game and clinch a playoff spot, then depending on the other CCHA outcomes this weekend, Notre Dame would conceivably face either Bowling Green, Michigan State or Ohio State. "In terms ofabilities, we would rather face Ohio State," says Smith. "But their physical facilities are the worst. Michigan State has the best facilities, but more than likely we'll be playing Bowling Green." A more immediate concern, however, is he series this weekend, and it will not be an easy one. The series will be saturated with emotions as parents and fans alike will be taking their last looks at the Notre Dame varsity hockey team on home ice. The series will mark the culmination of a long season -one that has been filled with more than its fair share of injuries and disap~ pointments, some larger than others. What has it all meant to Lefty Smith? "We were missing people without knowing their value to the club," he says. "But the team showed potential, they didn't give up, they didn't get down on themselves, there was no dissension. It took a tremendous amount of character then and after all this stuff (the hockey announcement) hit." After the decision was made to drop hockey, the student body blamed everyone but themselves. Unlike the case a few years ago, there was nothing they could this time -it was too late. This weekend however, the student body -and those who have at­tended games for the last 15 years -has a chance to say thank you to Notre Dame hockey by attending the final two home games. 
Friday, February 25, 1983 -page 4B 
• Lefty 

varsity sport, Smith too must now decide what his own future holds. 
"My first objective is for us to make the playoffs and to gel the kids placed in the colleges of their choice," he says. "When that's all over, I plan to sit down with Mr. (Gene) Corrigan ( ND's athletic director) and find out exactly what the future holds t(Jr me here at :'llotre Dame. I'll abo sit down with my wik and kids and try to decide what will be best t()r us." 
Smith couldn't give a definite answer when asked if he would con­sider remaining as coach of the club team. 
"I love hockey and I like working with kids," he says. "I like to believe that I can be of some help to them. Athletics have been so good to me that I feel I have a responsibility to give back to it. 
"As I look back over these I"i years, one of the things that has impressed me as much as anything has been the spirit, the attitude and the personality of the University. 
"I respect the University a great deal, and I would love to stay here," Smith concludes, "yet I would want to stay in something that's going to 
Brent Chapman 

be meaningful." 

• 

continued/rom page3B 
"The hockey team gave me a total perspective on 
life," he says. "It gave me an awareness of people in 
other parts of life. All I was used to were people from 
the same type of environment and background. Notre 
Dame hockey exposed me to a totally different aspect, a 
great diversification of personality." 
The variety that the hockey team provided made all 
the work worthwhile. The former players never men­
tion the sacrifices they made, or the complaints they 
had. They only refer to all the fun they had. 
"I never played hockey because I had to," says former 
goaltender Mark Kronholm, who holds the Irish record 
f(Jr most shutouts in a career and for lowest goals 
against average in a season. "I know it's hard to believe, 
but it was always a treat. I even enjoyed going to 
practice." 
Part of the fun derived from the hockey experience arose from the special atmosphere that has always sur­rounded the team. Noble, who was around in the early days of Irish hockey, traced that feeling back to the beginning. 
"We were new on campus," he recalls. "We ex­perienced an odd feeling of sorts. We were unknown and people would automatically group us all together." 
The next 1-l hockey teams each grew up in a tradition 
of being a little bit different from everyone else on 
campus. The novelty eventually wore oft: but subse­
quent developments kept the spirit alive. 
"Hockey has always been third on the totem pole in 
terms of athletics here at Notre Dame," Moher says. 
"For better or worse, we always recognized that and 
stuck together. There was always an extra ingredient of 
camaraderie in this.program." 
Success isn't the only aspect of hockey that the alums have taken with them. Like many former athletes, they have stories about games, memories about entire seasons, and many compliments for their coach, Charles "Lefty" Smith. 
for Collins, the memories go as far hack as 1961-!, when the ACC was under construction. 
"We used to play in a rink in town that had no ceiling and no stands," he recalls. "There was no glass above the boards either. I remember hitting a guy in a game once and knocking him clear oil the ice. The first time we played in the ACC was a special day." 
Ric Shafer, now a coach in 1-airhanks, Alaska, played for Smith from 1970-7--i. Hh junior season, 1972-7~, Notre Dame earned its best record ever with a 2~·1--1-1 mark. 
·•t always think ofthe 72-7~ year when I think ofhigh­lights," Shafer said. "The stands were tilled for every game. The excitement level was high ti:Jr every game. Those were great hockey days." 
Walsh began his Notre Dame career during those glory days and lived out his college career when hockey support was at its peak. 
"There was a tremendous hockey following," Walsh says. "The students, the faculty, and the local com­
• • Alumni 
munity were all tiehind us. We were living in the tradi­
tion ofa Notre Dame sport." 
Smith has always been part ofthat Notre Dame mold. 
"He (Smith) produced the type of program that fit 
into the Notre Dame spectrum," Roselli says. "He's an honest, decent man. How the boys did in school was more important to him than than our pertormance on the ice." 
Smith's concern tor his players really impressed Col­lins. 
"He was a friend who genuinely cared about the players," Collins says. "He'd talk to us about things that weren't always related to how many goals we scored or the penalty minutes we got." · 
The friendships made on the Notre Dame hockey 
team and the memories gained during those days will 
never leave the former players. 
"One big highlight ofcollege was the ties I made both 
at Notre Dame and especially on the hockey team," says 
Kronholm, who is now the Alumni-Development Direc­
tor for Macalaster College in Minnesota. "I still hear 
from my teammates -my friends -all the time." 
For Walsh, the Notre Dame legacy follows him where 
ever he goes, and rightly so. 
"People always ask me, 'Aren't you Brian Walsh the all-American hockey player from Notre Dame?'" Walsh said. "Even though you get new horizons and you form new values, somethings always remain constant. Things like where you grew up and where you went to school will always be a part ofyou. Notre Dame will always stay with me." 
This attachment to Notre Dame and to Irish hockey make the administration's decision to downgrade hock­ey a hard decision to accept for these ex-players. 
"The (hockey) alumni just haven't accepted the fact that the hockey program at Notre Dame is over," Wil­liams said. "We still have hope." 
Walsh, a ti:Jrmer Irish captain, expressed sincere 
regret over the situation with such clarity and emotion 
that it is easy to understand why the alums are so upset. 
"I came from an Irish, Catholiic family of 11 kids," 
Walsh said. "The only way I could have gone to Notre 
Dame is by playing hockey. There are other Bnan 
Walshes out there who will be denied the opportunity 
to achieve all that I have tr>day. It bothers me to think 
that those other Brian Walshes won't even get a chance. 
It'~ just so hard to believe." 
The Notre Dame hockey alumni are a fine example of 
the potential that exists in college athletics. They prove 
that an athlete can achieve success both on the field of 
competition and in his life after college. 
These players are proud of their accomplishments, and they carry their memories throughout life. They were f(Jrtunate to have received that cherished oppor­tunity, and Notre Dame is tortunate to have provided it to such a fine group of people. 
But f()r the unlucky ones -this year's underclassmen and the untold future generations of Notre Dame hock­ey players -that opportunity has been denied. 
Forever. 



---~--~
~ ------------~-~--------------~-.-------.~----~----.-~~--------~~--~~------.-----------~--~--~--~-------------------w---------------­
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, February 25, 1983-page 9 

ersion and endurance 
ofthe book. Because Marathon 33 is not rigidly structured, it has been relatively easy to center the play around the protagonist's emergence as her own selfin­stead ofaround the ordeal she underwent to find her­self. 
While the historical uniqueness ofthe dance marathon will be downplayed, it will not be ignored.• According to Bain, Washington Hall, site ofthe produc­tion, has an ambiance which is well suited to the play. Marathon's drector added that set designer Thomas Leffwill not be idle, although he will not be remaking much ofthe stage, he will be redecorating it. Music, too, will try to capture the spirit ofthe time. But, just as Washington Hall was not a dance hall, nor will the music be strictly authentic. Rather. a new score which attempts to capture the spirit ofthe times will be presented. Bain says that this new score will serve bot.h as an outlet for some creative talent in the theatre and help the theatre avoid the problem ofcopyright in­fringement. 
The show's director is very confident in his com­pany's ability to present a complex performance. He is especially grateful to his choreographer, Kathleen Mac­cio. She plays a large role in the production as shear­ranges the actors and actresses who must dance through most of the play. Bain is also very glad to have the musicians who will perform the jazz score. Most of the audience's attention, however, naturally will focus on the actors and actresses. Susan Gosdick will play the protagonist's role as the teenage june, while joe Dolan 
\

is her experienced partner who helps her adjust to the rigors ofthe marathon. Bridget Dolan will portray Evie, \. the marathon worker who befriends june, and Greg Hartman and Peter Hendrickson will play the \ respective, significant roles of Dankle the owner, and Ruddy, the emcee. 
For thost: interested in a tale about following a dream at any cost, Marathon '33 is a play to see. Even to those just looking for a story ofchallenge and triumph, the play should be attractive. It will be presented Friday and Saturday, February 25 and 26, and the following Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, March 3. -!,and 5. All shows will start at 8:00p.m. in Washington Hall. 
The Boys bring 'EivirG' to ND 
T
he Oak Ridge Boys, one of 
country music's most successful 
vocal groups, bring their high­
energy act to the Athletic and Con­
vocation Center tomorrow as part of 
a four-day Midwestern swing which 
includes Cincinnati, and Bowling 
Green, Ohio and Fort Wayne, In­
diana. 
The quartet, which has been the dominant group in country Gospel 
Bruce Oakley 
concert preview 
music for a long time, branched out into popular country music in 1977 with the gold album, YAII Come Back Saloon. Since that time, they have had several big hits, including the Grammy-winning "Elvira," country's biggest hit of 1982. 
The currtnt tour introduces their new album. American Made. The al· bum's title cut has sold 300,000 copies in its first two weeks of release and should go gold soon. 
The Oak Ridge Boys were forme-d in 1959 as a (">spd quartet, but the group has undergon• a seriesof per­sonnel change~ through the years. The group no~ consJ!>t~ of William Lee Golden (whu joined in 196-l ), Ouane Allen ( 196<• ). Richard Ster­ban ( 1972), and joe Bonsall ( I973). 
The four work hatd tl• maintain a public image consistent with their Gospel root~. 
In a recent inter .:iev. bass vocalist Sterban noted that the group's recent surge in popularity has . served to underline the importance of that image. 
"Our image 1s very important to 

us," says Sterban. "Especially since Their songs span the spectrum 
'Elvira,' we've picked up a following from Gospel harmonies to foot­
ofkids, and we don't want to do any-stomping popular tunes, and their 
thing that might offend a part ofour on-stage antics have wowed 
audience. audiences from Nashville to Norway. 
"For example, we don't use Especially popular with college 
profanity on stage, and we shy away crowds because oftheir enthusiasm, 
from trashy, dirty lyrics in any ofour The Oak Ridge Boys are ready for 
songs." their first visit to Notre Oame. 
The quartet has even turned "We really look forward to Satur­down lucrative beer and cigarette day night," says Sterban. "We really endorsements inconsistent with its like to go into a new area for us and image. meet the people. And college 
But maintaining a clean-cut image crowds have been very good for us." doesn't limit The Oak Ridge Boys to The show will feature the best of a stuffy, conservative performing 
old and new as the quartet mixes style. favorites like "Elvira" and ·:Bobbie "We put a lot ofwork and energy Sue" with cuts from American into our stage show," says Sterban. 
Made. The new single has received"We use strobes and a fog machine, better early response than "Elvira,"and we put on a very high energy . 
one ot only three platinum singlesshow. In fact, when we tour, we only by any group in 19H2. do three or four dates at a time, be­cause we can't be at our best ifwe The Bellamy Brothers, a popular have to put out so much energy for country group in their own right, more th<m a few will open the show. 
..,;,;,.;:;~;,.,...___,.==..,.,.,= 
.. ··~~~~~ i• Wt?t?~t?llcl~ • 
S
o, you thought that Mother Nature had decided to give South Bend a break in the weather, kindly sending us April showers and May sunshine instead of February snow and ice. Ifyou happened to look out ofyour window yesterday morning, you noticed that little white pieces offrozen water were falling from the sky. Yes, my friends, that is snow. But isn't this still the middle ofwinter, and doesn't snow usually accompany that season? Unfortunately, yes. But the winter weather doesn't have to spell the end of the springtime spirits that crowded the quads earlier this week. After three or four big weekends, packed full ofevents, The Keenan Revue, the women's basketball game against Louisiana Tech, and junior Parents' Weekend, it's time for a bit ofa breather. Though the num­ber ofeve'nts is few, there is one event that overshadows all others on the calendar (except the last Notre Oame Oivision I hockey game against Chicago). Read on and see what I mean. •THEATRE The ghost of Washington Hall is keeping himself hidden from the actors and actresses on stage, probably feeling cramped by the memories being conjured up onstage. june Havoc, the original "BabyJune," the dancing and singing little girl made infamous by the stage play and motion picture, Gypsy, recalls in her play, Marathon '33, her days in the Oep t ression era marathon dance world. As a strug­gling actress trying to make a place for herself in the legitimate theatre, she turned to marathoning to support herself. Havoc's play comes to the stage courtesy ofthe Notre Oame-Saint Mary's Theatre Department, director Reginald Bain, choreographer Kathleen Mac­cio, and a cast of ... well, you try to count them. The play con­centrates on how June (Susan Gosdick) deals with the world of marathoning. Gosdick is a veteran of the Notre Oame-Saint Mary's stages, having appeared in major roles such as Queen Margaret and Lady Alice. joe Dolan plays Gosdick's partner, returning to the onstage scene after directingMan ForAll Seasons for the Student Union. The cast includes some ofthe most experienced and some of the newest talent on both campuses. The stage has been adapted so that the audience appears to be the spectators ofthe marathon. Enter into this experience tonight or tomorrow night at H p.m. in Washing­ton Hall. Tickets are S2.50 for students, faculty, staff and senior citizens and 53.00 for all other adults. If you're really smart, you'll save halfthe price ofa ticket by bringing a friend; two-for-one prices tonight only. •MUSIC The University of Notre Oame Department of Music will present guest organist, Heinz Wunderlich, in recital Sunday, Feb. 27, at 8:15 p.m. in Sacred Heat Church. Wunderlich, the leading professor ofor­gan at the Hochschule fuer Musik and darstellende Kunst in Ham­burg, will perform works by Buxtehude,J.S. Bach, Franck, Max Reger, and himself. Before joining the faculty at the Hochschule fuer Musik in Hamburg, Wunderlich held the position ofdirecto.r of music ofthe Hauptkirche St. jacobi in Hamburg where he performed on the world-famous Arp Schnitgerorgan of 168 t 9-93, the same posi­tion for which Bach applied in 1720 but did not secure. The concert 
•.

is free and open to the public. •MOVIES What's at the Annenberg Auditorium tonight, you ask? Silly you. 
Our old friend, the Friday Night Film Series inhabits the newest of our auditorium spaces tonight with its latest edition in the distin­guished group of recent foreign tilms which shed light on the relationship between aesthetics and contemporary culture. Claire's Knee, directed by Eric Rohmer, is a French film (with English sub­titles) involving two simultaneous plots which intertwine and ex­plore modern morality. The tilm focuses on a novelist who meets an old friend while on vacation and decides to use him as material for her new book. This plot is pushed aside as the friend becomes increasingly obsessed with Claire's knee. Showtime is 7:30p.m. and 
tickets are 52. •NAZZ As all of us realize by now, the new student government and ac­
tivities officials will be rounding out their empires and appointing commissioners to plan all the events that transpire over the course ofthe academic year. Ifyou missed the advertisements in the paper the last few weeks, you should be aware that the person that has been bringing you the sounds from the Nazz will be leaving us and putting the Nazz into new hands. john Warnock continues to schedule new and diverse entertainment for us, even though his days as the man in charge down there arewinding down, and this weekend is no exception. The Nazz branches out this weekend, 
providing the stage for another in its never-ending cascade ofopen nights h.>r various groups and dorms on campus. Tonight, members ofthe Notre Dame Chapel Choir leave their cozy loft in Sacred Heart Church and stand in front of the lights for all to see, hear, enjoy. relax. and laugh, ifyou please. You may not believe it. but Choir ri1embers can do more than sing Monteverdi. They will take the stage at 9 p.m. and stop ... well, whenever. Tomorrow night, starting at 9 
p.m. until who knows, there will he "An Evening of Magic and Com­edy" featuring Gary O'Brien, Ooug Maihafer, Mike Weber, and Bruce Oakley. My humble opinion strongly dictates that you will have a bellyache after listening to the routines ofO'Brien, that brave man who did his best to brighten the spints of tired Oance-a-thoners and 
succeeded. What a weekend. And don't target the hockey team. But then, who could target them? 
.......... 

SportS Brie S Friday, FebLary zs, 19s3-page to 
::~B~);.~~~b~e~(~J~b~s:e~r7,,,~e~r~a~n~d~~ib:e~A~s;5~-~7.,£~-,:-a~t;e~d~P~r~e~s~s::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=ir:=:::::::::::::::::::::~~~====~ 
-:·:·:~·:·sA SKETBALL
:~Jt!~: :' .!if~~;;~;;:;

Robert Banks of Hampton, Va., one of the nation's top Professor Mike DeCicco's Notre Dame fencers high school football players, will attend Notre Dame. Banks, a two are on the way to Madison to face three Big Te t n fencing teams: the time first team All State selection by The Associated Press on both University of Wisconsin, the University of Illinois and the University 
MIDWEST Drake 73. lnd1ana Slale 56

offense and defense, announced his decision Wednesday. Earlier, he of Minnesota tomorrow afternoon. -The Observer 
llhno•s State 63. Southern llhno•s 54 

had narrowed his choices to five universities -Ohio State, UCLA, 
Iowa 93. W1sconstr1 63 M1ch1gan 69. lnd1ana 56

North Carolina, Virginia Tech and Notre Dame. -AP 
M1Ch1gan Slate 101. Oh1o St~te 94. 3 ovt Northwestern 83. Mtnnesota 66 

See SPORTS BRIEf'S, page 12 See SCORES, page 13 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a,m. to 4,30 p m. However. classtfteds to appear tn the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepa1d. 
either 1n person or through the ma1L

Classifieds 
~-NO_T_IC_ES~''~_F_O_R_RE_N_T~ APTS NEAR ND FOR RENT UTILS POTYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 LESS GAS PH 2720261 TYPING Jackoe Boggs House 4bedroom. near ND, $290permo 684 8793 Fall or summer No uttllttes Phone (319)  Need nders ONE WAY to Md /DC area. leav1ng Wed .Mar 9 Andy, t246 HELP' Have hotel room 1n Ft Lauderdale · need roommates to spht room costs Call Kevtn or Ttm at 3537 I need nde lo Ph1lly. NYC, Ballo. or DC. for breall. Must lear'e Wednesdav j/09 Call Will -8659 .  DUETOTHENATUREOFTHEPARTY. NOBODY WILL BE ADMITTED DURING THE LAST 10 MINUTES OF NED IV THE JAZ:Z SINGER Fn . Feb 25 SMC Carroll Hall 7. 9. 11 $1 RIDE NEEDED TO DALLAS FOR SPRING BREAK!! CALL DREW 1166  RHYMES WITH P, STANDS FOR POOL BUCK. AI leasl you ve gel one arm to dnnk With on your birthday Just don I break 1t when you pass out! Happy 211 ROB-­HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MY FAVORITE BOSS I·WON T SIGN THIS AS YOU Dl[' NT SIGN YOUR LAST NOTE AT LEAST MINE IS LEGIBLE.  --­..HOCKEY BAND----­Saturday N1ghl THE PUCK STOPS HERE THIS Will be lhe l1nal ap­pearance of lhe BEST BAND UNDER THE NORTH DOME OF THE ACC 1st penod. wear black to mourn 2nd penod. pure sprut (blue gold green) 3rd penod. specral surpnse!!!! Thts was made pos~ Stble by Jerry and h1s black on whrte lypesel  
322-8735. Pally  HUMPY  THE  CAT  Will  be  1n  lhe  RIGHT LEFTY? HAVE A GREAT 21'  Zipper  Snake?  Flo?  Doctor?  Ted?  
VOLUPTUOUS BLONDE needs a nde  Rosemont  Honzon  on  Saturday  afier­ WIERD  Z1pper  Snakt>?  Flo?  Doclor?  
TYPING WANTED 277-8534 6-10 PM M­ home to the Mtnn-St  Paul area for sprtng  noon  Ted? -WIERD  
F. ALL DAY WKNDS  4 bdrm furntshed house. neat campus  break  If you re gomg my way, call Sue al  MO  MORIN--AN  RA??  WAY TO GOlf  
On Notre Dame Ave  Good condtt1on 9  2170  FOR  A  NECTAR  YEAR:  WRITE  IN  CONGRATS  FROM  YOUR  PROUD  J R,  
Grand Canyon Summer Jobs Employers  mo  lease  $335 per mo. Call 684-0933  CALIFORNIAN ON MARCH 1 FOR JR.  LITTLE SISTER  Just  what  were  your  rntent1ons  Wed  
Recruotlng Now  Complete Oetalls-$2 00  (local call)  CCLASS OFFICERS.  n1ghl? I lhought 11 was fUSI a FRIENDLY  
Wnle Canyon, 85751  Box 30444 Tucson, AZ  FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO 277­ FOR SALE  VOTE NO TO BORING, UNI­MAGINATIVE CAMPAIGNS: WRITE IN  THE PUMP THE PUMP THE PUMP THE PUMP THE PUMP  tnvttattonl K Dear Roomte forget your keys agatn and  
AITN ALL NEW ENGLANDERS!!! Con­nectiCUt Club IS aga1n offenng an exc1t1ng  3604  USED.  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  CALIFORNIAN FOR CLASS OF '85 OF­FICERS.  THE PUMP INC WE MEAN BUSINESS  F.C won I come lo lhe rescue We II get a double!!  
and fun-filled bus nde back for spnng break. Cost IS $90 and stops are 1n Fair­field and Hartford. Br1ng money to s1gn ups on Mon.. Feb.28, l1rS1 floor La Fortune, 6-7pm. FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE Oon·t Forget PANDORA'S Happy Hour 3·00·6·00 pm Fndays. Huge doscounts on all books. Just arnved. a new sh1prnent of Art Posters. Stop 1n and look. we·re open everyday. 937 Soulh Bend Ave DC CLUB · SIGN-UPS FOR THE SPRING BREAK BUS ARE TUESDAY, MARCH 1 FROM 10-11 PM, FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE. FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE. $70.00 ROUND-TRIP YOU MUST PAY WHEN YOU SIGN UP LOST/FOUND  FURNISHED TWO ROOMS. PRIVATE ENTRANCE MALE PREF ALL 'JTILITIES PAID 277-3604 FOR RENT NOW -2 or 3 Bedroom, Full Bath, Yard, Partly lurn1shed $185 &.$70 Ut11i11es Depos1t $200 Ofl Portage. 289­1687 WANTED HELP NEED RIDE TO NYC/LONG IS­LAND FOR SPRING BREAK LEAVE MAR 10 MARK 316 Surfs up tn So. California. Dnvtng to Califorma lor spnng break? I could use a lift. G1ve M1ke a call al x1688 Thanks Need nde lo Virg1ma for spnng break W1ll  BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED ERASMUS BOOKS. 1027 E WAYNE ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY­JEFFERSON INTERSECTION FOR SALE 1977 BMW 320•.LUXUS PACKAGE.FLORIDA CAR.GREAT SHAPE.$6,800 Call283-1166 STEREO EQUIPMENT Hassle free h1-f1 delivered qutckly nght to your door. Profess1onal consultatton and tnstallatton! Available al spec1al discount pnces lor students al ND/SMC SAVE $$$-call J.B al283-8286 76 Pmto 4speed, Ex.Cond, Runs GREAT. FM-casselte, 30mpg, $1500Call Paul1732 Computer lor sale Apple II& w/momlor, 2 dtsk drtves. software. games and extras $2,000 Call Bob al277-1917  PITTSBURGH CLUB SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS Lafortune Lillie Theater, Sun Feb 27 1983 at 7pm See ad for deta1ls Also, short meetmg for anyone tnterested 1n runntng for Club Of­fleer followtng stgn-ups PITTSBURGH CLUB SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS Lafortune L'"le Theater. Sun Feb 27 al7pm Com1ng Soonl!! The FIFTH EDITION of the ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS Jean Carey.have a fantastic birthday'Love.Terry BOSTON CLUB HAPPY HOUR POSTPONED FROM FRIDAY TO NEXT FRIDAY. MAR 4 BOSTON BUS FOR SPRING BREAK SIGNUPSMONDAY, FEB 28, 7pm  -THE MAHATMA ADVTG CO We pity the A-TEAM We p1ty I hose fools MUTTS NUTS w1il be v•ctors And we II break alllhe rules We'll break all the rules And Lambs face and Cal s head MUTTS NUTS are lhe greatest And lhe a-team IS DEAD JPW proofs JPW proofs on display Fri Feb 25, Mon Feb 28 -Wed Mar 2 In South Alcove at LaFortune. 12·5 each day. Bring coupon lor tree pfcturel JEFF, KSHH! KSHH! CONGRTULATIONS!! NEED I SAY MORE? ONCE AGAIN -KSHH! MEGHAN HELP1 NEED RIDE TO WEST PALM FOR BREAK! CALL JAY al 1404 PLEASE! ONE or TWO RIDES needed to I he GAR­ Scared of us tn Holy Cross! a man do tuschra ttme tor the enttre Fam1ly Affa1re the Fly1ng L1zard Holel Com­plex moves lo 214 H C. (m1nus Melvin) T1ff and Spiff get lhe B OFTiffsfavorite statu.,. Sissy, Uncle Bill, Mrs. Beasley andPres. climbMt. Vernon toajrdjloorquad(Arrabr!). C.,K.,L. an P. party on 2ndfloor b1Jicon)'so certain :Smedllesfrom Keenan andMorrissey can climb up to excitement. Emlltree Acorn andFlgleneget.Jndjloortoparty wltbthe R.A. andR.M.O. Sebastian, Bu/ fy, and ]ody -pseudo Wbale Wblz, Hypo-DeDe, and Eternal Optimist Cleenteset2ndfloortrlple to make2nd andJrdH.C. '83-'84's u ..gnar{r. cuttbe prism, big t1me. non-beige, "'a}orparty floors!! Look Marcia -No more Bear Bombs t 1 Baby!!  

 share usual Please call Ang•e at 1284  FOR SALE 73 Pontiac Venlura. one owner, low mileage, full power. $795 or  LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE $50 DEPOSIT REQUIRED. LEAVES THE  DENSTATEforSpnngBreak Yes,wedo wanllo go lo NEW JERSEY for break. W1ll  WELCOME TO SMC FOR S.P. W. DR. & MRS. GIBLIN  
LOST ND CLASS RINGI83), NAME INSIDE, BLUE STOME, LOST POSSIB­LY AT SMC(MOREAU-OLAUGHLIN HALL), LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND OF 1/28-1/30, BIG REWARD$$$ OF­FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO PLEASE CALL 283-3346  R1ders needed lo N Y C for break. Call Karl x3113 RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK---CAN LEAVE ANYTIME WILL SHARE USUAL CALL CHRIS AT 3510 OR 8573 ANYTIME--­ besl offer Call239-6539 or 277-3333 FOR SAIL OffiCial Noire Dame Sa11in9 Club T-sh1rts Blow your fnend(s) away! We ve been d01ng a BOOM1ng bUisness so order lasl before they·re all gone' Call Lou al6713  11th. ??Call Mike 277-3276 or John 1532 BOSTON BUS SIGNUPS Monday 7, Lafortune $110 round tnp 1ncl refresh BOSTON CLUB SPONSORS CELTICS­ pay lhe uusual Please (PLEASE) call Sarahal 1361 orMaryal1272 Please'!!'! CONNECTICUT bound?! We need (desperately) ONE or TWO ndes 10 CON­NECTICUT for Spnng Break Please call Mary at 1272 orSarah al 1361 W1ll pay  MR. & MRS. CURRAN DR. & MRS. MURPHY MR. & MRS. MULLANEY HOPE YOU'RE AS EXCITED AS WE ARE FOR THIS WEEKENDI LOVE, YOUR DARLING DAUGHTERS  
BULLS TRIP on MARCH 26. Cost $16­ the usual  1 YR  ANNIVERSARY of J G 's obses­ 
To the person who removed my blue Or·  BEAUTIFUL RUSSIAN NEEDS A RIDE  SELL STEREO--P1oneer Rec 35 w p c ,  18 Includes tlx, tranapo(wlth beer), 4  SIOn wtth the S-man! Lets hve 11 up Sat.  
game Chem1stry notebook from the South  TO TAMPA AREA FOR SPRING BREAK  Cassella  Deck--Dolby.  b1as  equal.  free hours In Chicago. ALL INVITED.  MARDI  GRAS.  HA,AN  lOS­ Feb 26!  
D1mng Hall on Fnday, Feb 11, between 1  WILL SHARE USUAL CALL JANNA AT  Real Mtmmus 7 speakers ·· Br Jtm -239­ SIGNUP SUNDAY 7pm In Lafortune.  TAL .. FORGET  ABOUT  IT  THE  2A  
&  1 30pm,  I  would  apprec1a1e  1ts  •m­ 6746 PLEASE HELP!'!  5655  TEAM WANTS YOU AT NED IV TOMOR­ Belh & Carolyn ­ 
med•ate return. I'll be glad to lei you bor­ DEAR MELINDA,  ROW  ll's gunna be a rullllly good party and  
row 11 some t1me when I don't need tt! My  NEW  JERSEY  RIDE  NEEDED  TO  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE MOST  sluff and----!  
name and number IS on 1t so call me!  NORTH/CENTRAL  NJ  FOR  SPRING  WONDERFUL  BABY  DOLL  IN  THE  OREGANO  
LOST PAIR OF SILVER FRAMED GLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE THE CASE WAS FALLING APART AND  BREAK PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906 Need two ndes to Long Island area tor Spnng Break Can leave anyttme Call  [  TICKETS  WORLDII LOVE YOU VERY MUCH. I'M GLAD YOU'RE HERE WITH ME THIS YEAR TO MAKE MY LIFE BRIGHTER, AND I'LL MISS YOU NEXT YEAR.  THIS IS FOR YOU SHIRLEY, A UTILE SPICE IN THE PERSONALS: Oregano  MARYANN. Enjoy yourself thrs weekend!  RELAX'  
IS HELD TOGETHER BY A PIECE OF  Ann al SMC 4287 or Maureen at SMC  NEED 3 DAYTON TICKETS--JULIE 3725  LOVE ALWAYS,  Chill Powder  Annte. Carol. Cheryl. E•leen. Gretchen.  
SILVER  DUCT  TAPE  IF  FOUND  4273  TODD  Tumeric  Holly.  Jane.  Janet.  Jayne. Jill. JoAnn.  
PLEASE CALL PHIL AT 8295 DESPERAELY NEEDED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! LOST MENS N D RING, 84 BLUE STONE. FULL NAME ON INSIDE LOST ON TOWER QUAD CALLJOHN 8212  Need a nde lor 21o the Ch1cago Suburb of Glenv1ew tor Feb 25-27 Will share ex­penses Call Kathleen 4365 (SMC) t d TO CHICAGO FROM SOUTH BEND -ONE WAY, $15. ROUND TRIP, $28. PHONE 234-6778.  Need 4 Daylon T•ckets Please call1700 PERSONALS  Welcome lo SMC DEVIlA S & FITZ S Hope you have a great t1me Love. N&P All nghl Thais 11 I m !Ired of bonng Per­sonals pages Are you? We oould bnng · back moose JOkes. bul lhey re prelly  Sweet Basil Nutmeg Cinnamon ND MEN ARE YOU STRONG ENOUGH TO PUSH A BABY STROL­LER? Allend Becommg Together allhe Sn11e, Sunday. Feb 27. 7 00 pm  Karen. Kathy, Kalle. Laura. Lyd1a. Mary. Mary, M C, Sue. & T1sh Thank you each and every one of you for maktng rny 22nd so very great! You re very spec1al people and I love all of you MEW Thrs rs a message tar Tina P  
FOUND·Cas•o sc1enllflc calculator. fx-58.  moustertous Elkhart JOkes were fun. but  Someth•ng·s Cookm '!!  The besl darn cand1date for V-P  
tn engtneenng audttonum  Call Kevtn at  WANTED! ST  PAT DAY IN SOUTHIE  Boston  you can only take so much of Hoos1er  A note Ia you and your runn1ng mates  
3201, lale mght. H1 Jayne, h1 Malt, 1h1s IS  NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR BREAK  Need nde to Boston on Fn or Sat  March  humor Do you have a good 1dea for ferttle  BP BP BP BP BP BP BP BP BP BP BP BP  You ve no compet1tron on sen1or slate  
free!  PAULA 1266  25 or 26 (That s the weekend a Her spnng  m•nds? If so. send them'" to  BPBPBPBPBPBPBPBPBPBPBP  So the best of luck on your carnpatgn  
break ) Willing to snare cosl et al Call Jeb  Moose Control  Cuz when 11 s over we II brrng champagne  
LOST N D  Billfold Wllh my I D cards.  HELP'! Need RIDE/RIDERS lo PITTS  al 8641 Thanks  P.O. Box a  WHO WILL HAVE DISHPAN HANDS  Besl ol Luck T  
license and detex tn tt. On Fnday between  March 4-6 Call J•m--8921  Notre Dame IN, 46556  HUSBAND.  WIFE  OR  MAIO?  COME  Love Julte and Carolyn  
N1ewland and the Matn C1rcle  If tound,  Samt Marys students YOU can buy Ob­ or to The Observer v1a campus ma1\  HEAR TERRY AND DIGGER PHELPS  A.t1enhon? Wha1 happened to clue 2?!!  
please call Jamce at 1336.  !!NORTH CAROLINA'!  Need  RIDE  for  server classlfteds  on the  Satnt  Mary s  And remember. only you can prevent Per·  SHARE  THEIR  EXPERIENCES  ON  Love Brendan  
Spnng Break' Can & Will leave any S day'  campus  Come  lo  lhe  SMC  Observer  sonals burnout  TWO CAREER FAMILIES AND WHAT IT  
LOST Burgundy Infold wallel on Satur­day the 19th dunng Jumor Parents  Call J1m at 8921  off1ce 1n the off1ce of Reg1na South. Mon­day through Fnday, 12·30 lo 3 p.m  FENWICK produces SOCIAL RETARDS  MAY MEAN FOR YOU 28 7·00, AT THE SNITE  SUNDAY, FEB  Dea• Jeb. WMai1S hypocracy?  
Weekend. Please return as contents are expens1ve to re-place· especially Conn dnvers licences Please call 3498­you gel my name already FOUND AN ADORABLE POODLE-MIX DOG SHE APPEARED IN TUESDAYS OBSERVER IF YOU LOST HER OR CAN GIVE HER A PERMANENT HOME. SHES CURRENTLY RESIDING IN N ALSH CALL x8077 >-ound· Basketball al Stepan Fnday. 2/18 Call Jerry 3321 lo cla1m LOST: BLUE AND GOLD (original colors, eh?) NO WRESTLING JACKET.  Need RIDE lo CHICAGO Fnday Please call Tom al3841 Need nde lo DALLAS for break Can leave Wed afiernoon. 3/9 Call STOP Shelly x8026 PRINCETON I need a nde lo lhe Pnn­celon. NJ area for spnng break If you can help call Ke•lh at 8857 BOSTON or MAINE Do you have space tn your car? I need a nde there for spnng break Call 885 7 Need nde to CHICAGO Feb 25 call Kathy 6883  NED IV NED IV NED IV NED IV JUGGLER The Juggler IS now accept1ng flcllon. poelry. essays photography, graphiCS, etc for the Spnng 1983 1ssue SubmiSSions should be lurned 1n at the Engl1sh Olf•ce .309 0 Shag (Juggler mall­box) GREAT BOOKS--GREAT MINDS-­MEET FACULTY AND STUDENTS OF THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES MONDAY FEB 28, 6 30 P M . GRACE PIT  ATTN ALL ND/SMC WOMEN Yes you can be lhe f~rsl on your block lo w1sh PJ G1bson a Happy B Dayll Th1s slud of a guy w1ll be anxtously awatftng well WIS­hers at 1104 Grace or you can call htm at 1791 E1lher way you w111 be •"v•led 10 h1s comb•nallon PAJAMA· B-DAY PARTYII KOOL & THE GANG LIVESII DAVE SHINE CAN PROVE ITII Bobtn. Stnce my talents aren t of a very artrstrc nature. my salutatton to your lamthai unrts will take a form drtferent from that of yours Can I be mercrless and tn­linlte Saturday? A Shady Character  N'JWOMEN CAN YOU FACE THE 9 TO 5 CHALLENGE? Meet a woman who does Becomtng To­gether Feb 27. 7 00 pm, Sn11e LAURIE" Do you have your f1ngers and toes cfossed?? Have you sard your prayers every nrght?? Is the sun Shlntng brrghtly rn I he sky?? D•d you gel up on lhe nght s1de of lhe bed?? Is lhe champagne chilling'" the refngerator?? Let's hope so!' DON McLAURIN" GOOD LUCK IN THE FINALS SUNDAY" MAY THE BEST MAN WIN--THATS  J1m L DearJ1m. It comes from hypo (horse) and cracy (rule). so I guess government by a horse. Yours, J. DearJeb. lsn t tt neat how we can po1nt out others •mperfecttons wrth o'-'i own tmperfec· ttons? Notre Dame N•ght at the Mus1c Box Thts Fnday1 W1th the ROOMS and· Psycho Capones" Wear your Blue and Gold !I~  
My name "BROWN" is on the front H found, please return to Matt Brown, x8607. REWARD!II LOST A KEY ON AN ITALY KEY CHAIN 2/22. DARLENE x6980 338 BADIN TO THE PERSON THAT TOOK MY BLUE DOWN VEST FROM 121 OSHAG ON TUES.,FEB.23. PLEASE RETURN IT AND/OR KEYS THAT ARE IN THE POCKET(THESE ARE MY  Need RIDER lo FLORIDA -M1am1 & Fl Lauderdale for Spnng Break Call R1ta al 6797 ' Need nde lo NJ or NYC Can leave 3/10 Kare•\284-5338 a~er 11 p m RIDEFlS NEEDED TO MEMPHIS TENN OR LITTLE ROCK ARK FOR SPRING BREAK CALL JOY 1318  BRUNO'S ORIGNAL FAMILY PIZZA A SECOND LOCATION -NORTH ON 3t. ONE MILE FROM N D FREE DELIVERY TO CAMPUS MON THURS AT 7 00 PM AND 10 00 PM ORDER BEFORE 6 30 FOR THE 7 00 DELIVERY AND BEFORE 9 30 FOR THE t 0 00 DELIVERY CALL NOW 277-4519  WELCOME MR & MRS & GREG DELAUI\IE1 En1oy your VISII 10 lhe btrdhouse' Drd you hear ab0ui •he farnt!V drtvrng tram New Bnphton 10 Soph Parents Weekend? They saw a s1gn I hat rea1. Sl Marys College-LeH, so !hey lurned around and went horn~' PJ  YOU" WOO HOOII WTFII Tomorrow PJ McDonald wl!l be a Brrthday Machrne• Happy 19th PJ' (P S I need my gUitar lor Spnng Break 1 GREG--AN RA?? WHO THE HELL IS DAVE SHINE ANYWAY?? DOES GRETCHEN KNOW HE CAME OUT OF THE CLOqET??  ~PI\! ALL !\lEW E"'GLANDERS"' Con­nectrct•l Cli'O -<; aga1n offenng an ex.c1ttng ,:!nrl 1\..n filled t'lus ode back for sprrng bre;:k Ct;r,t •s $90 afld 1 s•ops are 1n Fair· l1eld and Hartford Bnng 'honey to s•gn ups on Mon Feb 28, l,rst floor La Forune. 6-7p"' ~lAST COME. FIRST SERVE GOODLUC>: WILLIAM DAWAHARE  
ROOM. HOUSE.WORK. MAIL. AND HOUSE KEYS) PLEASE RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND OR CALL TED AT 1101 IM DESPERATE!!! FOUND Two d1fferen1 sets of keys. One set found on South Quad near Cushmg two weeks ago. On Amencan Express Key nng Olher set found aboul lwo  NEED 1 OR 2 RIDES TO B HAM ALABAMA FOR SPRII\IG BREAK CALL PAITY 284-5018 NEED RIDE TO ROCHESTER. NY FOR SPRING BREAK CAN LEAVE ON MARCH 10 OR MARCH 11 PLEASE CALL MIKE 8265  HELPI HELP! HELP! I need a nde lo M1l waukee lh1s weekend 11 you re go1ng my way, please g1ve Julie a call at 3882 Happy Birthday. PJ McOonaln"' (one day early!)  MAKE IT OUR BUSINESS-THE MOBIIIII For Junoor Class Officers WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN WRITE IN CALIFOR­NIAN WRITE IN CALIFORNIAN WRITE IN CALIFOqNfAN WRITE IN CALIFOR­NIAN WWRITE IN CALIFORNIAN (and vote no to stupia class campaignsI)  DC CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS FOR SPRING BREAK WILL BE TUESDAY MARCH 1. 10 1 t PM ON FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE $70 00 ROUND TRIP YOU MUST PAY WHEN YOU SIGN UP LYONITES · Trad1110n Slarls Here' Unite behind MADDEN and HARRINGTON•  TINI'. PE"'SSON MARK MANLEY MAk1<. BlJSCroMAI\I .,OPE "OR 84 '11 E"'ERGY"' MORE FOR 'i4 111 ENEAGY~' 1 SEX <;or:JDES~ "::HERvL LANGE BHVARE 0•· THE MASKED MEN"' PS rli'.F-PY 21sl BIRTHDAY  
weeks ago near Badtn Hall On metal nng; possibly Hall Staff keys. It yours, call and •dent1fy tnem. Call M1ke al xt 404  I need nde (one-way) lo Saratoga Spnngs, 1\1 Y (or VICinity) Can leave noon, Mar 1t Call Pal t884  Need R1de To Connecticut For Spnnq Break Woll Share Usual Please Call Dan at x68~4  LYONI'fES Vote Feb 28. t983  ANNIE and FITl  on  Kenny, Thanks for the beers. the coat. the walk nome. anc1 the c:onversatron I rn glad one n1ce guy lives rn Drllon Kathy  MarfttMn 33! Marath<>n 33! Maratho~ 331  
L  

1---­
The Observer Friday, February 25, 1983 -page 11 
Spring training '83 

Indians' Ferraro back from cancer 
TUCSON. Ariz. (AP) ·Two weeks 
after an operation to remove a can­
cerous tumor. :vlike Ferraro wa~ 
back in the dugout yesterday at the 
Cleveland Indians training camp 
feeling lucky. very fortunate to be 
here. The first-year manager dressed 
in stalked nearby as hi~ goal was to 
get around the camp. 
This is a big year for the 38-year­
old Ferarro. After I 7 years in profes­
sional baseball. mostly with the New 
York Yankees, he got his t1rst shot at 
managing when the Indians dis­
missed Dave Garcia. 
Then. as Ferraro prepared for 
• 
continuedfrom page 16 

weekend's crucial wins at Bradley and Illinois State, and Marquette will have to look to avoid playing inside against the bigger, stronger Irish. 
Bates and freshman forward Trena Keys both came off the bench last weekend to fire the Irish to a pair of wins that put them firmly in control oftheir post-season destiny. 
"It's very important for our bench to come through for us," says DiS­tanislao. "It's especially important now, because we've got some people out with injuries." 
Freshman Lynn Ebben and junior jenny Klauke remain questionable for this weekend, although both will dress for the games. 
The nail-biter over Illinois State. 
which was won with four clutch 
points by Laura Dougherty in the 
game's final minute. set the Irish up 
for a four-game drive to an NCAA 
Mideast Regional hid. Notre Dame 
will host the Rq~ionab at the ACC 
after ~pring break. 

DePaul (I 1-I5) b coming off a narrow loss to Illinois St.tte \'\'ednes­dav night in :\'ormal. Down 1-in the final I 0 minutt·~. the l.adv Blue Demon!'> closed to within three hefon: succumbing 6H-60 to the highly regarded Redbird~. 
"Regardless of the kind of year 
their having. thev'll always give us a 
ballgame:· sap DiStanislao. "They 
have a lot of talent. and we'll see 
quite a few interesting matchups." 
Junior forward Janine Douglas 
and senior center Annette Anthony, 
who combine for 16 rebounds a 
game. will hit the boards againM the 
strong Irish front line in one of the 
more interesting matchups. 
The Blue Demons' scoring leader 
is junior guard Barb Atsaves, who 
had 18 points against Illinois State. 
Atsaves, who averages I'; points a 
game, is one of the region's steadiest 
ballplayers. and plays a john Paxson­
type ·role for DePaul. Irish guard 
Debbi Hensley will probably be 
called upon to defend the S-6 
Atsaves. 
"In their offensive scheme, 
Douglas will try to toss it to Atsaves 
outside for a quick basket," says DiS­
tanislao. "Those two will be a chal­
lenge to defend. And they'll be 
psyched for this game." 
Demon coach Ron Feiereisel has 
had to deal with key graduation 
losses, as well as an increasingly dif­
ficult national schedule. The DePaul 
program, like Notre Dame's, is in 
transition, and losses to UCLA and 
Alabama dot both teams' schedules. 
The game will be the second game 
of a Notre Dame-DePaul 
doubleheader and will be the Irish 
women's third appearance in the 
zeppelin hangar ChiCagoans call The 
Horizon this season. 
"The Horizon hasn't been very 
kind to us," admits DiStanislao. 
"We're 0-3 (lifetime) in there. But 
this is the most important game we'll 
have played there yet." 
Despite their 0-3 record in the 
building, none of those losses has 
been to the Demons. However, 
DePaul has won both of the prior 
meetings ofthis series. 


spring training, doctors told him they had found a tumor on his left kidney and it had to be removed. 
The tumor was cancerous, but doctors said its removal had prevented the cancer from spread­ing. 
"I went into this thing right up to the last day thinking it was nothing serious," Ferraro said as he watched the players work out. "I was just thinking it was flabby tissue orsome­thing." 
He was admitted to a hospial in Fort Laurderdale where he lived t 
• • Women 
Last year's DePaul win -a 60-55 

verdict at the ACC -sent Notre 
Dame down to its fourth of five con­
secuitve season-ending defeats. 
Playing in Chicago represents a 

homecoming of sorts for Mary D., 
who will not be very far from her old 
school, Northwestern in nearby 
Evanston. 
"Yeah, I like going back to 

Chicago," says DiStanislao. "But I 
like playing anywhere, as long as we 
win. 
"And we've got to win these last 

four if we want to keep playing ­
this is where we collapsed last 
season." 
during the off-season and spring training. 
He said he began to worry before this season that there was a "good chance" the tumor was malignant. But after the doctors said they had halted the cancer. Ferraro began to think again about baseball. 
"I have to have faith in the doctors that they diagnosed why I had, and accept that they did it correctly," he said. 
Now, buoyed by the doctor's as­surances and the gradual easing of the pain, Fc::rraro looks ahead to the new season -but with a different outlook. 
"The operation is going to let me 
have a more carefree outlook on 
life," he said. "If something goes 
wrong, it's not going to be the end of 
the world." 
Ferraro smiled as he recounted an 
incident in the hospital. It was the 
third day after his surgery. 
"I was getting up -really strug­
gling -and a kid came in ... and 
and said, 'Mr. Ferraro, I know this is 
probably a bad time, but can I get a 
tryout?,"' he recalled. 'I told him, 
'Yeah, it's a bad time. just call the 
Yankees or something."' 
Doctors have told him it could 
take up to six weeks from the Feb. I 0 
operation for him to be IOO percent 
healthy. Meanwhile, he must sit and 
watch. 
"I've been a coach for a long time 
and to sit back and watch is really 
different," said Ferraro. 


SophomoreguardLaura Dougbertv bitajumper last weekend to beatIllinois State last Saturday and put Notre Dame in the driver's seat to earn a tournament bid. Thelrisb women must win at Mar­quette and DePaul this weekend to solidifv that position. Mike Riccardi pret1iews the women's weekend on the back page. (Photo bv Scott Bower) 

NOTRE DAI\lli'SGREAT 

.... 

Francesco's Italian Dining 
Original Southern Italian Home Cooking 'Everything is a· homemade' 
* Spec1afizmg m: 
1636 N. Ironwood Ph. 277-6155 ...E!IIdl!"is•on-1 w -6566 
0 

Deliveries Available 
d 

to NO & SMC 
BEER AND WINE 10% discount on dinners and any large pizzas with coupon to NO & SMC students• 
And a vanety of

Spaghetti a Ia 
pasta and

Carbonara 
sandw1ches.

Melanzam-stuffed 
Also fea/urmg

egg plant 
Francesco's Four

Brac10I1 alia 
Season Pizza 

Calabrese­
stulfed beef roll 
Francesco ts a frJnr~r chef of the Holy Cross Fath('•.;. lor over 21 years 
GRACE PIT PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 

---------·---------------------­
The Observer Friday, February 2 5, 1983 -page 12 
Skiles with 35 

MSU needs 3 OTs to bag Buckeyes 

EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) -points in a minute span to tie the Freshman Scott Skiles sparked a late game at 6S-6S. 
NU 83, Minnesota 66 

rally with six straight free thows in Two free throws apiece hy Troy the game's final minute last night to Taylor and Granville Waiters gave CHICAGO (AP) -Jim Stack lead Michigan State to a I01-94 the Buckeyes their first lead of the pumped in 18 points to lead a triple-overtime Big Ten victory over game, 7 3-69, with a minute remain­balanced Northwestern attack last ISth-ranked Ohio State. ing in regulation. night and the Wildcats rolled to an 
Skiles, who finished with a career­After a missed free throw hy H3-66 Big Ten hasketball victory high 3S points, sent the game into Buckeye forward Larry Huggins, over Minnesota. the third overtime on a jumper over Skiles raced down the floor and hit a Andre Goode added I'points, Art Buckeye forward Tony Camphdl to three-point shot with i 2 seconds Aaron 14, and reservt: Paul Schultz make it H9-H9. left to send the game into overtime I 2 to offset a 22-point performance 
Camphell, who finished with 29 at 74-74. hy Minnesota's Randy Breuer. points, had seven points in the first Spartan guard Sam Vincent Northwestern hoosted its overall overtime to give Ohio State an H7-HS pumped in 23 points, including 17 record to I '5-9 and 6-8 in the Big Ten lead. Spartan forward Larry Polec of 17 from the free throw line, while Minnesota fell to 16-7 overall then hit a pair of free throws with het(Jre fouling out in the first and 7-6 in the conference. seven seconds left to send the game overtime. Mi~higan State, leading The Wildcats shot to a 19-point into the second overtime. the league in free throws, hit 40 of lea'd in the first half and the closest 
Ohio State started slow with 4S Thursday. Minnesota could come in the trouhle scoring, especially from Seven-foot center Kevin Willis second halfwas within eight points. inside. Michigan State scored I 2 chipped in IH. Minnesota took a quick 6-4 lead straight points in one stretch and Taylor added 18 points for the hut Northwestern caught tire for the took a 39-29 halftime lead. Ohio Buckeyes, Joe Concheck and next six minutes and outscored the State was out-rebounded 22-9 in the Waiters had 13 and 12 respec/ tive­Gophers 19-2 to take a 23·81ead. first half, and shot 40 percent from ly. Breuer scored I 5 of his points the field. The victory broke Ohio State's during the first half three straight 
The Buckeyes pressed full court, five-game winning streak. The baskets by Tommy Davis in one forcing three Michigan State tur­Buckeyes fell to 9-S in the Big Ten, stretch kept the Gophers in conten­novers and scoring 1 0 unanswered 17-7 overall. Michigan State lifted its tion despite Northwestern taking a 
record to S-H, and I 2-11. 47-35 halftime lead. 
Michigan cruises to upset IU 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP)-Mich­the Wolverines' lead to S2-43. last night. Igan center Tim McCormick scored The Hoosiers sliced the Michigan The win lifted Iowa into a fourth­18 points, including nine in a crucial advantage toSS-SO, but Wolverines' place tie with Illinois, both H-6 in the stretc,:h of 3:22 during the second guard Eric Turner scored on a conference. Iowa is 1..,;7 overall. 
half, to lead Michigan to a 69-56 up­reverse layup and McCormick Wisconsin, 2-I I and in the Big Ten set Big Ten basketball victory over added two free throws to put the cellar, is 7/ 16 overall. fourth-ranked Indiana last night. · lead hack at nine points. Hansen hecame the 16th Iowa 
Michigan led 41-40 with I 3:4 7 player to go over I,000 points. The remaining in the game when McCor­6-foot-6 senior guard scored I~ mick sparked an eight-point Michi­Iowa 93, Wisconsin 63 points in the t1rst half and made 9 of gan outhurst by scoring six poi~ts to I I shots from the 11eld and 6 of ~ 
give the Wolverines a 49-40 ad­lOWA CITY. Iowa ( AP) -Bob from the: free throw linl' as he pulled vantage. Hansen scorn! a career-high 2-1 his career total to l.oo~. Indiana cut the lead to 49-43. hut points to lead I~th-ranked Iowa to a Steve Carlino scored I H points, McCormick scored, was fouled and 93-63 Big Ten Conference college: Michael l'avne 12 and Andre Banks 
made the ensuing free throw to raise haskethall victory over Wisconsin I I for the llawkeyc:s. 
Domino's Pizza breaks 

Domino's througtl'with The Price 
DestroyerN!
Pizza 
No ordinary pizza, The 

DeliversT.M.. Price DestroyerN is 
eliminating the high cost 
of a 9-item pizza while 
bringing you all the 

The Price toppings you love! 
I DestroyerTM The Price DestroyerN includes 9 carefully 
selected and proportioned 
toppings, all for the price 

Call us . of a 5-item pizza: 
Pepperoni, Mushrooms, 277·2151 Extra Cheese, Green 1835 S. Bend Ave. Olives, Onions, Green Plaza 23 Center Peppers, Ground Beef, 
Sausage, Ham Hours: 12" Price DestroyerN 11 am· 1am Sun.-Thurs. $8.94 11 am· 2am Fri. & Sat. 16" Price Destroyer'" 
$12.94 Ask about our party discounts! Prices do not include 
applicable sales tax. 

Our drivers carry less Coke available in 
than $20.00. 16 oz. cups.
•Limited delivery area . © 1983 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
Free plastic cups with this Price DestroyerN Ir----------------------~ 
coupon offer! I 0 2 free with any 12" 
Limited time only, while I Free Price Destroyer··. 
supplies last. Save$ .98!
Coke! 0 4 free with any 16" Price Destroyer'". Save $1.96! 

One coupon per pizza Expires: in two weeks. 
Fast, Free Delivery 
1835 S. Bend Ave.

II.
Plaza 23 Center 
Phone: 277·2151 
29834/2650

L••••••••••••••••••••••J 
• • • Sports Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
The Interhall swim meetscheduled for Monday 
has been rescheduled to Tuesday, March HatH p.m., NVA announced 
yesterday. -The Ohsen•e1· 
The Irish women'sswimmers are in Chicago for this weekend's ,\1idwc:st Invitational meet. Coach Dennis Stark's swim­mers are prepping filr the rcgionals early next month. -The Oh­serl'er 
The Notre Dame trackteam is trying w send some of its members to the Domino's Pizza Relavs in Tallahassee :'11arch 18 and 19. Florida State i~ ho~ting the mn-'t. and Domino's in South Bend is trying to held send thl·m. With a contrihution coupon which has appeared in The OIJserr•er. students can earmark a dollar for the purpose of sending the athletc:s to Florida when the)' purchase a pizza. This weekend. howe\'cr. the team will he in Champaign to take part in the lllini Cla~sic. -The Ohser/'er 
Prospective cheerleaders take note. There will 
be an organizational meeting for those interested in trying out tiJr the 19H~-H·I squad on Tuesday. March I. at 7:00 p.m. in the !.afortune Ballroom. -Tbe Ohserl'er 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club will be practicing. 
hehind Jake Kline Held, weather permitting. The practices will run 
from 3:30 to S:30 Monday through friday. New members are 
welcome. -The Observer 
1983 Senior Formal 
"The Main Event" 
Apri I 9, 1983 Palmer House, Chicago 
Seniors, share a bid with afriend Bids go on sale March 7-11 at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 



----------------~---­

~-------------~ ---~ ---------­
-----------------------------------------------·-~------------­
The Observer Friday, February 25, 1983-page 13 
Dooley dismayed as Walker leave-s UGa 

ATLANTA (AP) -l'niversity of 
Georgia football coach Vince 
Dooley said Heisman Trophy win­
ner Herschel Walker had little 
guidance from those dosn.t to him 
and di t d not really do \vhat he 
wanted by signing the most 
lucrative contract in pro fomball his­
wry. 
Walker. a thret·-time All-America tailback who would have been a senior next season, signed Wednes­day with the New _lersev Generals of the t:nited States Football League for a reported SS million over three years. The contract was signed just hours after the l"niversity ofGeorgia declared him ineligible. 
The· signing of the 20-year-old Walker by the tledgling league in­furiated college coaches and the rival National Football League and upset Dooley, who returned im­mediately from a Colorado speaking engagement to Athens, Ga., Wednes­day night. 
And USFL commissioner Chet Simmons issued a statement in New York yesterday saying the league ini­tially was approached by Walker's attorney,jack :\1anton, about playing in the league. Then Walker personal­ly contacted the league himself, reiterating his desire to play in 1983, 
the statement said. 
Simmons also said Walker told the league he had made similar overtures to the NFL and the Canadian Football League. 
CFL spokesman Greg Fulton, however, denied yesterday that Walker or a representative had ap­proached them and said that under league rules a team cannot sign an import who is an undergraduate. 
The American Football Coaches 
Association, angered by the signing, 
said Thursday it plans to meet March 
3 with the NCAA pro Relations com­
mittee and USFL officials. Executive 
Director Charlie McClendon said he 
was arranging the meeting. 
Later, though, the AFCA issued a more formal statement by McClen­don from Orlando, Fla., asking its members to reserve decision on 
how to react to the signing until the organization's meeting. 
In New York, Don Weiss, the NFL's executive director, denied that the signing of Walker would trigger a full-scale salary war for col­lege talent. 
Dooley said yesterday he was up­set with Walker and was convinced his former star tailback didn't receive guidance from those closest to him when it was needed most. 
"A lot of you have said Herschel lied to me. Yes, he did, but my children have lied to me about some very important things. Yes. I'm mad and I'm hurt that he lied. But those things happen and it doesn't stop you from loving them," Dooley told a group of reporters in an athletic domitory classroom. 
Manton said he expects to be the scapegoat in the affair "hut the only 
• • • Scores 
continuedfrom page 10 
WicMa State 81. Cre1ghton 71 
Xav1er 87. Oral Roberts 79. ovt 
EAST Fa1rfleld 72 New Hampshlfe 62 
Massachusetts 85. Duquense 81 
St Peters 70. lona 69. ovt 
SOUTH East Tennessee State 102. Western Carol1na 83 Marshall69. C1tadel61 
North Carolina 100. Wake ForestBS Vanderbilt 69. Tennessee 68 Western Kentucky 72. North Carolina-Charlotte 69 
WEST Cat1forn1a 96. Wash1ngton 64 Cal State-Fullerton 86 Nevada-Las Vegas 78 Colorado State 68 Hawa11 45 Fresno State 66. San Jose State 59 O~lahoma 84. Nebraska 71 
Oregon 63 Anzona 57. ovt 
Tulsa 93. West Texas State 88 UCLA 77. USC 60 Utah 94. Cal-Santa Barbara 91 ovt Washington State 79 Stanford 69 Wyom1n9 66. San D1ego State 56 
thing I have done is to serve as an adviser until it became evident that Herschel had made up his mind . which way he wanted to go. I did not push him into making the decision to leave Georgia and play profes­
sional footbalL" 
Walker -completed his three-year 
career at Georgia with S,2S9 yards, 
only 82:~ shy of the NCAA-career 
standard held hv Pitt tailback Tonv 
Dorsett. Walker led the Bulldogs to~ 
33-3 record in his three seasons. The 
'Dawgs won the national champion­
ship in 1980, his freshman vear. 
noon. Pat Serge, Angelo Perino wzd Don

beating Notre Dame:;. I--10, i~ the 
McLaurin will be on hand as defending cham­

1981 Sugar Bowl, (;eorgia's first of 
pions. (Pboto by Ed Carroll)

three straight with Walker. 
< 


, 
_j 



-~-~--~~--·-· ~ -~-~­

---~-----------~-~
-

The Observer Friday, February 25-,1-983-_-page 14 
Wrestling's rebirth 
Bruno· a 'renaissance' coach 
Freshman JIB-pounderEric Crown is in control ofhis opponent in this photo. His coach, Brotherjoseph Bruno, C.S.C., hopes Crown can do as well in this weekend's Midwest Regional at the Univer· si~y of Northern Iowa. Louie Somogyi profiles Bruno at right. (Photo courtesv ofthe wrestling office) 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 

SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 11 • 20, 1983 
A rTIUifemttntt by 
ECHO TRAVEL, INC. 
MCH2571F 

SIX PER ROOM TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
Round tnp motor coach transportallon v,.l modern highway coaches to Daytona Beach. Florida leaving Fnday, March II. 

• 
Seven mghts accommodations at the CXCIURJ Plaza Hotel of 


$185 
Dayuma Beach Located at600 Nonh Atlant•c Ave., 1111 the most demanded hotel on the strip at that time 
• A truly great schedule of actiVIties mcludml our famout pool deck part1es and belly flop contesl 
FOl!R PER ROOM • Optional excursions availab.Je 10 Ditney World, Epcot, and several other anracuons 
• 
Numerous bar and reuauranl dtscounts, 


• 
The ~trv1ce~ of full time travel representauvca


$199 
• 
Alltalles and gratu111ts 


• 
Guaranteed kitchenette or oceanfront avatlable at •mall addtllonal charge (4 per room only) 


A QUALITYTRIP-ALOWPRICE·A GREATTIME 
I he P!;ua Hotel.locateCI nght1n tht m1ddle of the ~lrlp, 15 deflnuely the place to be dunna ~prmg break Ask anyone ~ho ha~ been to Daytona The hotel has a pool., btl par1y deck, re~tauranc, (our bars. color TV. asr condT!toned rooms and plency of acuviucs. Ptcturcs are il\adable where yo.u ~1gn up Our motor ~oachi!!'s are nothtng but the h1ghest quality h1ghway Coliche\ We also gtve you more extras With our tnp than anyone else. Don't blow it and ao on a lnwer ljUillll~ ITip LAST t'EAR O~ER 8,000 PEOPLE ENJOYED THIS TRI~. 
SIGN (jp NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE/I{ECORD STORE MON.· FRI. 10 AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 
8:00·9:00pm 
Room 331 
O'Shag REFRESHMENTS SERVED 
v 
For further information contact : Profs. Richard Foley, Jorge Garcia, or Tom Morris Room 337 O'Shag, 7534 
plain about such inconveniences, 
though. Indeed, there is probably 
not a better advocate of the benefit 
of education to not only life in 
general but to athletics. Calling him 
a wrestling coach is like calling 
Leonardo DaVinci a painter -it 
doesn't tell the whole story. 
His educational background in­. eludes a bachelor's degree in 
English and French from St. Ed­
ward's University in Texas, another 
bachelor's in musicology and a 
master's degree in humanities from 
San Jose State University. He has 
also studied and done research in 
psychology and excercise 
physiology. 
Currently he is working on at­
taining a doctoral degree from 
Stanford University by doing 
research with pertinent implica­
tions for interdisciplinary­
humanistic studies, and specific ap­
plications to stress control and the 
psychology of athletics. He studies 
this cognitive psychology while also 
serving as the coordinating super­
visor and coach of non-varsity 
weight-training, director of 
numerous wrestling tournaments 
and clinics along with being active 
in several committees, partaking in 
one of his favorite hobbies by 
photographing wrestling action, 
and coordinating the fatiguing 
recruiting efforts. 
"It would be nice to be able to 
coach too," he jokes. 
"Notre Dame is a place that con­
sumes you. For those who like to be 
fully dedicated, it's just the kind of 
atmosphere you want." 
One atmosphere he does not 
want to get involved with for now is 
the one where he teaches in a 
classroom (despite having taught 
from grade school to doctoral level 
for 18 years). 
"Education today is riddled with 
problems," he says. "Until I can 
find my niche in university educa­
tion where students are treated 
primarily as people and not simply 
as computer-information 
gatherers, I'll devote most of my 
time to wrestling and weight train­
ing programs where I can have a 
more direct influence on the lives of 
the people with whom I am work­
ing. 
"For me, subject matter is secon­
dary to the personal developement 
of the individual. After 18 years of 
teaching and coaching I've found 
coaching totally relevant to real life 
and teaching only remotely so 
because of others' preconcieved no­
tions, expectations, etc., concern­
ing education. " 
Bruno is pleased that the title "Head Coach" doesn't limit him to the stereotype many people have of coaches who eat, drink, and sleep their sport while just using an athlete as a machine, rather than also caring about him 
"I think it's important to in­
tegrate everything into your life," 
he says, We should try to be 
religious men as well as intellec­
tuals and athletes." 
He even manages to keep his 
religious title of "Brother" into 
perspective. 
"Religion has to be integrated like everything else, but you shouldn't go overboark," he says. "When I coached in high-school, the kids thought they couldn't win if we didn't say a prayer. I told' them that was nonsense. All they were doing was turning the prayer into a superstition." 
In short, he is everything that Notre Dame looks for in a leader. 
"I've got everything anybody could ask for in one package," he says. "I'm coaching wrestling, coor­dinating weight training, and I'm with my religious family in an academic setting." 
And Notre Dame has everything they look for in an individual package in return. 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 

Ever so gradually, Notre Dame has been building to be a force in the Midwestern wrestling scene. 
One has to look no further than to its third-year head coach, Brother Joseph Bruno, C.S.C., to understand why such tremendous progress has taken place. 
After a 6-9-1 record in his first year, he has taken a program that has had only II winning seasons in its 27-year history and coached it to its two greatest seasons in the last two years. Last year the team finished 15-2-1, and this year the mark has been upped to 18-2 as the team enters the NCAA Midwest Regional tomorrow. 
What makes this accomplish­ment all the more amazing and en­couraging is that 25 of the 30 members on the wrestling roster are either freshmen or sophomores (14 of the former and II of the latter). Of the eight weight classes in which Notre Dame will be wrestling this weekend, six of the spots are held by sophomores and one by a freshman. 
Has the foundation for a future dynasty been laid? 
"There is no limit to how far our program can go," says Bruno, "but there is still a long way for us t6 go before we can be a top program. We are ahead of scedule, though, in terms of personnel. Last year was especially a great year for recrunmg wrestlers with great academic backgrounds. 
,..._.....,,....................., 
Brotherjoseph Bruno, C.S.C. 
"As long as we have an admis­sions office it will be very difficult for us to achieve a dynasty. Many of the best wrestlers that l am after 
pass  right  through  my  hands  
because  of  the  admission  stan­ 
dards.  "  

You will never hear Bruno com-

Ihe Obserxet: is 
currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
SPORTS EDITOR PHOTO EDITOR FEATURES EDITOR ST. MARY'S EXEC EDITOR CONTROLLER ADVERTISING MANAGER CIRCULATION MANAGER ACCTS RECEIVABLE CLERK 
Applications are due at 
5pm Monday 
February 28, 1983 
For more information ca/1239-5303 
....~~......~.....-~_;as~~~--·-r~~~=----==--~........~~·~·~--..........~..~==.-..........~~..............~..~....~....~=••..s•z=-a..........a aza....~,~E$....G 
Ihe~rver========================~~~===========
Friday, February 25, 1983-page 15

Weekend 

-
.. 

,...--.---------.-.:--~.......,..,.._,_._~......-~~-~~~~--------~---­

! 
\ 
By RICH O'CONNOR 
Sports Writer 

ROSEMONT, Ill. -Four months 
ago, Digger Phelps was playing the 
hit song "Eye of the Tiger" with the 
intent of developing an instinct for 
survival in his young players. 
Tomorrow's game with DePaul will 
test what may now be a fully 
developed trait. 

After losing five of their tlrst six 
road games, the Irish have 
rebounded with two consecutive 
victories on the road over North 
Carolina State and Pitt -teams that went on to upset North Carolina and Georgetown respectively. 
Notre Dame hopes to bring its new-found road success to The Horizon here in suburban Chicago -the site of one of the brightest moments in the careers of Irish seniors John Paxson, Tim Andree, and Bill Varner. It was one of those 
moments Notre Dame basketball is 
known for. 

The year was 1981. Virginia was riding high as the nation's top ranked team and they came here ro take on the Irish. Notre Dame came out on top 57-56 thanks to an "18­foot fadeaway prayer" by Orlando Woolridge at the buzzer. 
Two weeks -later, the Irish returned to The Horizon to take on DePaul, only to lose 74-64, and see Woolridge suffer a thigh contusion that would hamper his, and Notre Dame's tournament play. 
But this year, things are different. 
Woolridge, Kelly Tripucka, and Tracy Jackson have been gone for two years and after last season's 10­17 disaster, the Irish are relying heavily on players who watched those games on television. 
John Paxson, however, was here two years ago. 
"Paxson has just given so much of himself so that the other players blend in," says Phdps. "He's allowed the team to achieve the balance we're looking for." 
It's a balance the lri~h will need as they go up ag;tinst a quick Blue Demon squad under the direction of Ray Meyer. In his 41st season as DePaul coach, Meyer, an ND graduate, is America's winningest active coach with 690 career vic­tories. 
Fourteen ofthose wins have come this season, as Meyer and his son Joey -already named to succeed his dad as DePaul head coach ­have taken this inexperienced Blue Demon squad through the roughest DePaul schedule ever, losing close games to UCLA, Louisville, George­town, and last Sunday at St.John's. 
The Demon front line is com­prised of 6-6 sophomore Tyrone 
--·~-~~----·~ ~-,·-­
backcourt. 
In the ptvot spot for DePaul b 6­

10 senior Brett Burkholder, averag­
ing three points and two rebounds a 
game. Spelling Burkholder is 6-l) 
Walter Downing. 
The Demons will he gunning for their third consecutive win. !\lotre Dame last defeated DePaul in l9KO. That ganK ~aw top-ranked and .Ill­beaten DePaul lose -6-..,_, in double overtime in the ACC. 
"This game probably means even more to both team~ this year, even though neither of u~ is in the Top I 0 this year," says Digger. "It's a must game for both of us ifwe want to get an NCAA invitation. 
"We've got to neutralize DePaul's quickness and ·play the tempo we want. We've got to keep them out of their transition game and try to frustrate them into mistakes and shots they don't want. Nc> one has really dominated them this year, so we know we'll have to work for 
Corbin and 6-8 freshman Kevin Holmes. Corbin has upped his stats to nine points and seven rebounds a game from last season when he averaged five points and six rebounds. Holmes has been scoring four points and grabbing four rebounds a game. 
Two underclassmen also start in the DePaul backcourt. 6-1 sopho­more Kenny Patterson and 6-S fresh­man Tony Jackson combine for 19 
points  while  running  the  Blue  
Demon attack.  
DePaul's  depth  at  guard  is  

obvious. Bernard Randolph, the team's leading scorer with IS a game, comes off the bench. Jerry McMillan, a 6-4 junior, averaging seven points a game, and Raymond McCoy round out the Blue Demon 

everything we gt"t."  john Paxson, shown here in last month's kt:Y win over Mar­ 
What the Irish  are  trying  to  get  quette, will return to The RosemontHorizon in suburban Chicago,  
tomorrow is into the NCAA Tourna­ scene o.f Notre Dame's classic 1981 win over Virginia, as the Irish  
ment, where another instinct will be  take on traditional rival DePaul in a game that could go a long  
put to the test. That instinct is the  way in determinining where ND willgofor tournamentplay. Both  
killer instinct, and it might be neces­ the irish men's and women's teams will take on the Blue Demons  
sary for the Irish to develop it tomor­ tomorrow. Rich O'Connorpreviews the men at left. (Photo by Rae­ 
row.  bel Blount)  

Women's basketball 
Irish seeking pair of firsts 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Spo,.ts Writer 
MILWAUKEE -The Marquette Gymnasium here and The Ro~emont Horizon in suburban Chicago have 
What makes football different? 
Let's get a few things straight right off the bat. I think Herschel Walker made a very wise decision. I don't think he went about making that decision in a 
very wise manner. I hold nothing against the man -except for the fact that he lied. 
• 
Walker will now make a vast amount of money. He does not have to risk never getting that money by toiling in the college ranks -above which he unques­
r 
tionably has risen -and possibly sufferring a career­
ending injury. 

He is an intelligent young man who is very likely to go back to school for a degree someday. One conversation with him will tell you that. 
r 
But he came to his decision in an underhanded and 
unethical manner. He hired an agent. He entertained 
offers from both leagues. He signed a contract. He lied. Since last fall Walker, or an agent/attorney/friend on 
his behalf, has been involved in "negotiations" with football factories ·across the country. They made overtures to Pete Rozelle. They discussed the matter with Chet Simmons. In short, Walker made his services available to the highest bidder. 
That's fine. It's exactly what you and I will do when 
we leave school. But he lied about it, and that's too bad. My main problem is with the hypocritical college 
football coaches and administrators, as well as with the sanctimonious NFL 
Last week, NCAA officials said that a court ruling allowing schools to make independent decisions concerning football television packages threatened "to destroy college football." Now, they say that the USFL's signing of an underclassman threatens "to destroy col­lege football." 
I don't buy it, and ndther should you. 
Across the country, schools are cheating to get their athletes into college, cheating to keep them there, and showing a general disregard for their welfare after four years ofeligibility are expended. 
Why are they so up in arms now? 
For years, schools have been free tv make their best deals when it comes to television and basketball. Ifany­thing, it has led to a rebirth of the sport's popularity ­not the death ofthe game. 
What makes football different? 

Skip Desjardin 
Sports Editor Emeritus 


For a number of years, athletes have been free to leave t;chool and pursue a career in the NBA, even as undergraduates. The game has survived, and so have "'ell-deserving and well-intentioned players such as MagicJohnson and Isiah Thomas. 
What makes football different? 
A friend of mine was offerred a well-paying job with a 
major oil company at the end of his sophomore year. 
There was nobody telling him that Exxon and Mobil 
and Arco had agreed not to hire anybody who hadn't 
t1nished college. 
What makes football different? 
Here at Notre Dame, a number of athletes have left school for the lure of a pro career. Every one -even those who met with less than spectacular success ­came back to graduate. Leaving school to make a living while they still could didn't stop these basketball players from getting a 1\!otre Dame diploma. 
What makesfootball different? 
An alarming double standard has grown up around college football, and it stems from one source. Greed. 
Georgia isn't worried about Walker's education. It's worried about losing TV and bowl revenues. ABC has already said that they are reconsidering their decision to broadcast the Bulldogs opening game next fall. 
The NFL isn't worried about the education ol )'Oung athletes. They are worried that the USFL will succeed or, worse still, start a bidding war that will raise salaries for all players. 
College coaches aren't worried about the well-being 
of their players. They are worried that they, too, will 
lose a potential star to the pro ranks -and maybe lose 
their own jobs because they don't win enough. 
The USFL isn't worried about interrupting the col­
legiate careers ofyoung men. It's worried about selling 
tickets. 

Herschel Walker isn't worried about anything. 
Not anymore. 
not been kind to Notre Dame 
women's basketball teams through­
out the program's brief history. The 
Irish have lost five times, and have 
never won at either of the two 
arenas. 
If it wants to attain its goal for this 
season -the NCAA tournament ­
Notre D<Jme must turn that track 
record around and win one at each 
place tonight and tomorrow. 
Tonight's contest agains~ Mar­quette University will be a prelude to tomorrow afternoon's second half of a men's/women's doubleheader against DePaul University. The Irish will be favored to gain their first 
wins on their opponenr's home courts, since both the Warriors and Blue Demons have fallen on hard times. 
Marquette (5-1 S) is having a dif­tlcult year in the NAIA's Wisconsin Conference, and will end their season tomorrow night against Wisconsin-Green Bay. Notre Dame beat MU twice last season -at the Dial Classic in Minneapolis and at the ACC. 
"I don't know why they're S-1 5," says Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "They've got some pretty decent talent." 
Tops among that talent will be senior forward Julie Sievers. Averag­ir.g 1 S points and 10 rebounds a Mike Cray; 170-pounders Dave Packo and Doug Maihafer; 160­pounders defending champion Angelo Perino and Pat Cusack; the I 'iSs will be Dave Roberts and <in·g Lezynski; I 50s Steve 

Sierawski and Dave Odland; l4Ss Paul Derba and .Joe Beatty; HOs Pat Serge and Edmund Kelly; and 1.3S-pounders .\1ike Dandurand and Don \-lcl.aurin. 
The Bouts, a Notre Dame tradi­tion began by Dominic "~appy" l'iapo.:tano m the I920s, will be seen over NBC du.ring St. Patrick's week. 
game, Sievers has been the keystone 
of Marquette's attack. The Warriors' 
lack of an effective offensive attack 
has been their major problem, as on­
ly Marianne Burish, with I 0 points a 
game, joins Sievers in the double 
figure category. 
Last month, however, '.1arquette 
wt·nt to Peoria, Ill., and came out 
with an out-of-character 83-65 win 
over high-scoring Bradley. An im­
pressive defensive effort against the 
Lady Braves (who average over 90 
points an outing) keyed the win. 
"They're a good, intelligent 
defensive team," says Mary D., who 
earned her 'D' as a master of 
defensive strategy. "They play a 
tough 1-2-2, look to steal passes and 
trap. It should be adecent game." 
Warrior coach Tat ~niely lost freshman center Kathy Nieman to a knee injury early in the season, but Marquette's rebounding hasn't suf fered as much as may have been ex­pected. Junior Pam Suplicki combines with Sievers to sweep a combined 20 boards a night. 
Notre Dame should, however, be able to take advantage ofseveral mis­matches inside as Marquette's lar­gest player is 6-0. Centers Mary Beth Schueth and Carrie Bates, both 6-1, commanded the boards in last 
See WOMEN, page 11 
Bengal finals Sunday 
The final round of the Bengal 

• Bouts, to be taped for telecast 
• next month by NBC, will begin Sunday at I:.30 p.m. at the ACC. The traditional event, held for the benefit ofthe Holy Cross mis­sions in south central Asia, will be capped by the super­heavyweight bout between Andy Panelli, a victor over defending champion Mark LeBlanc, and for­mer heavyweight champ Larry Andreini. 
A field of 51 has been thinned to a tina! I H for Sundav's card. Other bouts .include: 1-!eavyweights John Iglar and 




