
VOL XVlll, NO. 25 the independent student newspaper serving notre Jamt: and saint mary's THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1983 
Notre Dame shows 'progress' in salaries 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame has made "extraor­dinary progress" in raising faculty salaries, according to a study by the Office of the Dean of Administra­tion. Salaries for faculty have been raised an average of 46 percent over the last four years, the report notes, and, using statistics made available annually by the American Associa­tion of University Professors (AAUP), it documents. 
Jump in average 9-month faculty salary levels by Notre Dame over other doctoral-granting, research universities is as follows. Average salaries for full professors at Notre 

·Dame ($40,719) went from a rank of 94th to 53rd between 1978-79 and 1982-83. Those for associate professor ($31,305) went from a ranking of 62nd to 21st and those for assistant professor ($25,090) from 9th to 18th. 
The University, the report says, 
is very near its goal of achieving an AAUP rating of "1" (top 20th percentile) for average salaries in all teaching ranks. In 1982-83 it achieved this rating for all but full professors. When Notre Dame is compared to with a group of 10 peer universities, including Princeton, Johns Hopkins, Nor­thwestern, Duke, and Brown, it again lost only at the rank of full professor. Seven of the ten schools have higher average salaries at that level. At the associate level, however, only three of ten are higher than Notre Dame, and only two of ten at the assistant level. In another comparison, this time with Big Ten universities, only three were ahead of Notre Dame at the full professor level, while Notre Dame had a higher average associate professor salary than all Big Ten schools. Only two Big Ten schools paid assistant professors more. 
see Pay, page 5 

Judge rules against Kings Cellar 
By KEVIN BINGER 
StaffReporter 
A U.S. district judge in Lafayette, Indiana refused to place a restrain­ing order Tuesday on the proposed merger between American National Bank of South Bend and Valley Bank of Mishawaka brought by Kings Cellar Liquor Store owner Robert Anderson. 
The dispute between American National Bank and Anderson began in September, 1981, when American National Bank seized deposits totalling $200,000 from B­J's Liquors, Inc., which then owned the chain of Kings Cellar Liquor Stores. 
The move forced Anderson, president of B-J's Liquors, to file for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Act and, ac­
cording to Anderson, almost forc­ed the Kings Cellar chain out of business. "They (American National Bank) felt that they were not secure," said Anderson. "They felt that there wasn't enough collateral and they didn't want us to expand anymore." 
Anderson disagreed and last February sued American National for $45 million in lost profits and $135 million in punitive damages. 
Thomas Wilkinson, president of American National, declined com­ment on the case because it is still in litigation. 
Anderson attempted to block the merger of the two banks because he believed the necessary liquidation of the bank's assets involved in the move could defraud him in attemp­ting to gain damages. 
"The judge would not retain the 


Bench pressing 

restraining order because he deem­ed the $600,000 (set aside to protect the bank against liabilities) and their (the two banks) combined assets provided enough security," said Anderson. "We've reached an undPrstanding and we secure." 
Kings Cellar Liquor Stores are no longer in danger of going out of business. As part of the bankrupt­cy reorganization, ownership of the liquor stores was transferred to Robert C. Anderson, Inc., of which Anderson is the sole stockholder. 
"It's a new corporation and it's doing very well, thanks to Notre Dame students," said Anderson. "The old corporation (B-J's Li­quors) is just a shell continuing the lawsuit." 
The two banks will sign the merger agreement Friday and open for business Monday morning as Vallev American Bank. 
TbeObsernr/H...a~ 
Dan Knaus exercises rapid eye movements on one of the new benches OJ? the South Quad yesterday afternoon. Knaus managed to catch forty wmks yesterday afternoon despite the traffic of students on the sidewalks along which the benches are placed. 



News correspondent to speak at St. Mary's 
By ED NOLAN 
News Staff 

The first Amencan female to serve as a foreign news correspon­dent, Georgie Anne Geyer, is among the speakers slated for the annual Women's Opportunity Week and College to Career Days at Saint Mary's. The event, scheduled for Nov. 14-17, was an­nounced at yesterday's Saint Mary's Programming Board meeting. 
Susan Holland, a Chicago business executive, will be the guest speaker on Wednesday of W.O.W. "Women's Fair," the theme for Thursday's events, will emphasize the vast opportunities open to women today, according to Madeline Hoch, coordinator of 
W.O.W. week. 
The Programming Board also finalized plans for Oktoberfest, which will begin next week. The week's events will start with a hall decorating contest in each dorm. A German picnic with entertainment is planned for Tuesday from 4-6 
p.m., for all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. A havride and bonfire will highlight Friday's events. Roasted marshmallows and 

apple cider will  be served at  the  
bonfire.  
Founder's  Day  is  scheduled  for  

Oct. 11. An alumnae reception and candlelight dinner is planned. A 15-minute slide show is being plan­ned. There will be a movie in the evening, but the title will not be an­nounced until then. 


Senate ready to oust Watt; Reagan says issue closed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -James Watt will stay on as interior secretary and President Reagan "considers the matter closed," a White House spokesman said yesterday. But a survey of Republicans, coupled with a unanimous Democratic caucus, showed a clear majority of the Senate ready to request Watt's resignation. 
And House Republican Leader Robert Michel of Illinois had harsh words for the interior secretary following a White House meeting, claiming calls for his resignation "may not be all that far from the mark." 
The Senate may face within days a resolution drafted by Minority and insulting to all Americans" when he referred to an advisory panel last week as "a black... a woman, two Jews, and a cripple." 

Senate Republican sources, who asked not to be identified, said that a survey conducted privately by Majority Leader Howard H. Baker, Jr., R-Tenn., for the White House suggested that the resolution would prevail, possibly by a com­fortable margin. The survey show­ed the measure would pick up more than 13 of the Senate's 55 Republicans. Earlier yesterday, Senate Democrats voted unanimously in a closed caucus to support the resolution. 
Chief presidential spokesman Larry Speakes told reporters at a White House briefing that public sentiment against Watt seemed to be easing. While letters and telegrams were running heavily against Watt last week, they now seem to be "evening up," he said. He declined to be more specific. 
"The president considers the mat­ter closed. It's behind us," Speakes said. 
Baker said earlier yesterday he thought that the congressional clamor over Watt had crested. Baker told reporters that Watt is "a little better off today than he was a few days ago." 
But Michel, the House Republican leader, said Watt clear­ly had hurt the administration, and that no official "is an indispensable 
see WAIT, pageS 
Leader Robert Byrd, D-W. Va., re­questing Reagan to "request without delay the resignation of Secretary James Watt" for conduct "unbefitting a senior cabinet member."

Civil engineering student Bob Boucher examines General Motor's The measure, which could face a1984 6-cylinder 308 production model engine. The model was one of filibuster by Watt's supporters,the exhibits displayed at Industry Day in Fitzpatrick Hall yesterday. 
says the secretary was "insensitive 

The Observer has been experiencing technical difficulties with its typesetting equipment. These problems often mean reducing the size of the newspaper and limiting the number of stories in order to get the major news out to readers on time. It may cause delays in classified advertising. We hope these problems do not inconve­nience our readers. The situation will be rectified as soon as possi­ble. 
l I 
~-­
The Observer 
lit Brief . . 
The phone rang constantly and the mail poured into Larry McDonald's Capitol Hill office for about two weeks after a Soviet fighter plane shot down a Korean jetliner with the Georgia congressman aboard. But, the world then moved on to other matters, and McDonald's office is now a sad and quiet place. The man in charge there is a former Hoosier named Fred Smith who grew up in Mishawaka, Ind., and attended Purdue Universi­ty. He was McDonald's administrative assistant when the con­gressman was alive. He now has the title of administrator and duties he could do without. "It's been tough going through Larry's personal effects and papers," Smith said. "I've had to sort and pack up things to send to various places and get ready to close the office down. Technically, all of us employed here are now working for the clerk of the House. We have to move out into a holding office by Oct. 18. This office is in a desirable location, and congressmen with seniority want to move in. Life goes on." Oct. 18 is also the date a special election will be held in Georgia's 7th District, an area that centers on Marietta, for the Democratic McDonald's congres­sional seat. -AP 
The Lebanese government yesterday scrapped plans to reopen the Beirut airport today after Druse militia leader Walid Jumblatt threatened to shell it. Public Works Minister Pierre Khoury said he would keep the airport closed until a truce supervision committee, made up of representatives from the army and Druse, Christian and Shiite Moslem militias, "completed discussions on the issue and security arrangements in and around the airport." Khoury had said the airport would reopen today. But Jumblatt said he would consider the reopening a violation of the three-day-old civil war truce. Jumblatt's Progressive Socialist Par­ty claimed in a statement that the government turned the airport into a "military position from which the regime used its warplanes which attacked innocent civilians in the mountains.-AP 
Fewer drunken drivers and the increased use of seatbelts help explain a drop in the number of highway deaths reported in the first five months of this year, safety officials say. The National Safety Council said Tuesday the rate of traffic deaths across the nation from January to May was the lowest since 1913, when the council began keeping records. In the first five moflths, there were 2.7 deaths per 100 million vehicle miles. This compares to 2.93 for all of 1982, the lowest yearly average on record, said Barbara Carraro, the council's supervisor of motor vehicle statistics. In the first five months of this year, there were 16,530 traffic fatalities compared to 17,280 over the same 1982 period, a drop of 4 percent. The figures indicate there is more awareness of the need for safety devices, more drivers obeying the 55 mph speed limit and less drinking while driving, council of­ficials said. Ms.Carraro could not project a death rate for the re­mainder of 1983 or predict an average per 100 million miles that would be lower than last year. -AP "--':-..... 
James A. Harris, who is charged in the parking lot abduction and murder of Jane Brumblay, was convicted yesterday in Indianapolis of raping a woman in a downtown parking garagl;l. A Marion County Superior Court jury deliberated about two hours before convicting the 28-year-old Indianapolis man .on charges of rape, sexual deviate conduct and confinement while armed with a knife. He ·was accused of confining a 51-year-old In­dianapolis woman to her car and attacking her at the Market Square Arena parking garage June 22. During testimony Tuesday, the woman identified Harris as her assailant. Harris faces 20-120 years for the convictions. Judge Thomas E. Alsip ordered a pre­sentence investigation and scheduled sentencing for Oct. 20.Harris is scheduled to go to trial Nov. 28 on charges he kidnapped Mrs. Brumblay, an L.S. Ayres & Company employee, from an eastside shopping mall last March, then murdered her. Her body was found in the locked trunk of her car. -AP 
Of Interest 
A 10 kilometer walkathon to benefit the St. Joseph County Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign has been scheduled for Oct. I. The Freezewalk, intended to raise funds as well as to serve as a visible demonstration of support for the freeze, will begin at 10 a.m. Information and sponsor forrns will be available at the meeting of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Freeze Campaign tonight at 8:30 in the Little Theatre, La Fortune Stu­dent Center. -The Observer 
Rev. Michael Colonnese, director of the Com­mitment Program (a non-profit ecumenical organization), will speak on "A Great Twentieth Century Human Tragedy: The Refugee Situation in Central America" tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Colonnese has been working in Mexico resettling refugees from El Salvador and attempting to start a medical clinic to serve refugees in Belize. The lecture is sponsored by SOLA. Persons interested in making donations to Colonnese's work or investigating career possibilities may contact Chuck Ruhlin at 239-5293.-The Observer 
Weather . · · ~ 
Mostly sunny and warm today high in upper 70s and low 80s. Fair and mild tonight. Low in low and mid 50s. Partly sunny and warm tomorrow. High in low and mid 80s. -AP 

Thursday, September 29, 1983 -page 2 
South Shore cleans up act­'Vomit Comet' gone forever 

They're gone. 
Those burnt orange and maroon cars of the Chicago South Shore and South Bend Railroad made their final run last Sunday. At 9:40 a.m., six late­1920s vintage electric cars left South Bend's Amtrack station on their way to downtown Chicago. 
Before it finished its two-hour five-minute run, the train brought out every train buff and television camera crew in the area. "The Little Train That Could" passed through New Carlisle, Michigan City, Gary, East Chicago, and Hammond on its way to a final welcome at Chicago's Randolph St. station. 
Most of the old cars will be sold to collectors or museums, according to Richard Bunton, South Shore's passenger traffic manager. One such collec­

tor, who paid $600 for four inoperable cars, plans to invest $130,000 in each to renovate them. 
According to Bunton, last Sunday\run culminated a year-long changeover program which replaced the 50 old cars with 44 new stream-lined cars. 
The 75-year-old South Shore railroad did not buy the new cars, which cost approximately $1 million each, but leases them from the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD) and the Ohicago Regional Transportation Authority (RTA). 
Japanese companies supplied wheels and body shells for the new cars. u.s. workers produced and assembled the majority of parts, including engines, cooling systems, and seats. 
In recent years, the old cars had become so dilapidated, South Shore earned the nickname, "Vomit Comet." Torn seats, rotting wood, and 


The_OhserYer 
··-~~e. •..Je.o...~~"-Pf l:, ~\.~te .. .. r ·-"i~~ :~ ,~.A.'t'll. 
: .•.• -. il 
r;; .'.J at:1_-.c ... ~· ~; ...$.-, f .,t~rr 

Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursday 

unreliable engines gave passengers the impression the railroad was on its last wheel. 
Much as downtown South Bend degenerated during the late 1960s and early 1970s, so too did the South Shore trains deteriorate. 
Few passengers believed they would miss the filthy restrooms or noxious cigarette smoke. Freezing winter mornings and stifling summer evenings were enough to make many Chicago-bound-travelers think twice about riding the rolling slum. 
Forgotten were the days when few students had automobiles -efficient and clean South Shore trains were the only way Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students could get to Chicago. 
New cars, however, are only the first segment in the railroad's plans to regain prestige. Within two years, South Shore could even move from the Amtrak train station on West Washington Ave. to Michiana Regional Airport. 
The plan, which was proposed by the airport, has the approval of South Shore and the Saint Joseph County representative to NICTD, according to Bun­ton. 
The station could move to the airport as soon as air­port officials collect enough money to lay track and erect power lines to connect the main railroad line and Michiana Regional. 
Bunton believes the move would be in the best in­terests of the railroad and the city, as the move would combine airplane, bus and train service at one passenger hub. 
But with the good news comes the bad: NICTD and RTA are asking for a rate increase to help fund the operating expenses of the South Shore. Fares now ac­count for only 50 percent of South Shore's operating expenses-175 employees serve 9,000 commuters each weekday. 
If approved, the increase would mean passengers would pay approximately 10 percent more than they now do beginning October 15. A one-way ticket from South Bend to Chicago would increase from $6.40 to $7.00. But not every fare would increase, says Bun­ton. South Shore intends to offer a special Sunday fare-at $5.60 for a one-way ticket. 
Bunton says such a discount fare as well as the riding comfort of the new trains should convince more passengers the days of the "Vomit Comet" are over. 
And a~ a frequent rider of South Shore, I think he's right. 
LOVERBOY LOTTERY 
Thursday, Sept. 29, Nazz--3:00 CONCERT: October 29 All Seats $11.50 
You must bring money to 
lottery to purchase tickets 
The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Obaerver is published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary's College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Obaerver. P.O Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Obaerver is a member of The Auoclllted Preaa. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• KANSAS CONCERT NOV. 3 • LOTTERY OCT. 6 
S11.50 I $10.50 
The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1983 -page 3 
Andropov condemns talks 'prattle' 


Tom Sullivan and Brian Fenton, Flanner freshmen, make serious moves to bone up on the court system. The newly-installed lights at the outdoor basketball courts at Stepan Center have lured potential Pax­
to practice hoops late into the 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-Soviet leader Yuri V. Andropov yesterday condemned what he called American "unwill­ingness to conduct serious talks of any kind" on arms control. 
He dismissed the "so-called new move" by President Reagan to limit nuclear weapons in Europe as nothing essentially different from previous U.S. proposals. 
The official news agency Tass carried excerpts of what it said was a statement yesterday by Andropov containing the Kremlin leader's first reaction to Reagan's new of­fer. 
Reagan told the United Nations on Monday that Washington was willing to forgo deployment of an unspecified number of the 572 Per­shing 2 and cruise missiles NATO plans to start installing in Europe in December and to negotiate on reducing the number of planes able to carry nuclear weapons -if the Soviet Union reduced its medium­range missile force. 

Nixon endorses aid to Nicaragua 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Former Presi­dent Richard Nixon said yesterday the United States must combine long-term military and economic support for friendly Central American countries to help deter the spread of Marxism throughout the region and into Mexico. 
Speaking to reporters after testi­fying to the National Bipartisan Commission on Central America, Nixon endorsed U.S. covert opera­tions in Nicaragua. He said a Marxist victory in El Salvador "would mean another Soviet base in the Americas." 
Indicating he embraces the "domino theory" in Cent'ral America, Nixon said defense of El Salvador is crucial to future stabili­ty in the region. 
If the leftist guerillas triumph there, ''the impact on the surroun­ding countries and on Mexico could be enormous," he said. 
The former president, 70, walked with a slight limp after emerging from his two-hour closed-door ap­pearance that reunited him with the man who was his foreign policy partner during his 5-year presiden­cy, Henry A. Kissinger, the com­mission chairman. It was Nixon's first visit to the State Department since leaving the White House nine years ago. 
Kissinger thanked Nixon for a "very comprehensive and extraor­dinarily thought-provoking presen­tation." Praising Nixon's remarks to reporters, Kissinger said, "Now all we need is to get the president to write the report," a reference to the policy recommendations the com­mission is preparing for President Reagan. 
While stressing the need to com­bat Marxism in Central America, Nixon said it would be a mistake to become obsessed with that issue. 
He suggested that '1. "very bold" long -term program -or ..~ least 10 years duration -is needed to help Central America, adding that the cost will exceed even that of the post-war Marshall Plan that helped put Western Europe on its feet in the early 1950s. That program cost the United States $13.3 billion in loans and grants over four years. 

******************************************************
i ~,Men's Hair Styling at its finest 1ftegeeJt's ~ 
,. ~ ~: "---~ 'The Knights ofthe Castle' ~ 

We want you to look your best f{C, ~ this fall with a distinctive custom 272-0312 * designers hair cut from the expert ~ 
*

..-54533 Terrace Lane it Across from Martin's 
rs. Tue, Wed, at 8:30·5:30 
it it  (St. Rd. 23)  
it  
it  
it  
it  
it  
itit H  s  

30 8 30

:.Thur, Fn 8: · : We are only minutes from camP 
_. Mon. 9-2:30 
* 

***********************..,COUPON********* 
* 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the ''Terrace Lounge'' South Bend's largest ' 34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
$2.50 
(Sorry. No mug sales this year.l 
Thursdays are fun at the Marriott! 
HOTEL 

. .. 
:-.;\,,. '"'... ,,,""' "'"'•"' ·~ ., ..·,'~.;.,. ......"' "''"t'( ...,p, "t;•.;. -...~,l'~;~ ..~.l;,,-~-,.-.•.4ft;'~•••~...... :.'lr.1~-­



stylists at the Knights. 277-161 9 
* 
Haircut, Shampoo Blow Dry, Condition **
* 
Regular $15.00 
* 
Now $8.50 with coupon *
*
* 
Applies to male patrons only 
*
*
* 

He made the offer conditional on Soviet readiness to reduce its cur­rent force of an estimated 351 SS­20 missiles and other SS-4 and SS-5 missiles targeted on Western Europe. 
NATO decided in December 1979 to counter the Soviet weapons with the Pershing 2s and cruise missiles if there were no agreement by late 1983 on reducing medium­range nuclear weapons in Europe. 
All the American leaders do is "prattle about some flexibility of the United States at the Geneva talks," Andropov said. His state­ment was read in full on the main television evening news. 
The Soviets are against any new missiles in Europe. They say a balance already exists, and that new NATO missiles will give the West military superiority. 
Without referring to Reagan's proposal specifically, Andropov 
· said "another portion of such 'flex­ibility' has just materialized. And the deception contained in it became clear this time as well. To leave aside details, the essence of the so-called new move in the U.S. position -billed as superb -is reduced to the proposal to agree, as before, on how many Soviet medium-range missiles should be reduced and how many new American missiles should be deployed in Europe in addition to the nuclear potential already possessed by NATO." 

The Observer /Pete Laches
Untitled 

Marianne Jones' untitled work done in pencil is one of several art ex­hibits on display in the lobby of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. The traveling"Works on Paper" exhibition is also on display in the Hammes Gallery in Moreau Hall. 
SENIORS!!! Please don't forget your 
Senior Portrait Appointments. 
------.. 
Spots are still-~l~::!M call 239-5185 right away. 
$107 /~COUPON FOR ~$10 TEN DOLLARS OFF 
WESTERN SKI JACKETS 
0~ 

WESTERN OR CAPEZIO BOOTS 
Wooden Indian Western Store 50877 US 31 North 1 I 2 mile So. Mich. line~ 10-6 m-Th 10-8 F-S V 

Armanao·s Barber & 1-tair StyJe Shop 1437 North Ironwood Drive Sputh Bend. IN 
HOME OF THE IRISH 
Four Stylists to Serve You Five minutes from cam us 

··-----..... ··~·--·-·------··--------.. -----.... ------... --.-.. -.......... -.­


Thursday, September 29, 1983 -page 4 
The Observer 
China, U.S. to discuss arms sale 
Associated Press 
PEKING Defense Secretary 
Caspar Weinberger said yesterday 
that China and the United States 
have started talks that could result 
in the sale of U.S. arms, and that 
President Reagan and Premier 
Zhao Ziyang will exchange visits 
next year. 
After discussions with top leader 

Deng Xiaoping, Zhao and Defense 
Minister Zhang Aiping, 
Weinberger told reporters in Pek­
ing, "On the basis of the work here, 
I am really confident that we have 
secured the basis for a continuing 
relationship that will add greatly to 
the ability of both countries to 
deter war and thereby increase the 
chances of peace." 
He said Zhao will visit 

Washington in January and 
Reagan will come to China in 
April. Zhang also is to visit the 
United States but the time has not 
been arranged, Weinbenzer ~aid. 
Funeral 
becomes 
protest
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines A 
memorial service for an im­
poverished Filipino shot through 
the head during anti-government 
riots turned into a demonstration 
against President Ferdinand E. 
Marcos yesterday. Students parad­
ed with clenched fists, chanted and 
sang nationalist songs. 
Marcos, meanwhile. claimed the 
mounting political turmoil posed 
little threat to his 18-year-old 
regime. "Don't fear that we are in 
any way panicked or paralyzed by 
this terrorism," Marcos said in a 
nationwide radio and television ad­
dress. "We never panic, you know 
that." 
But Butz Aquino, brother of · 

assassinated opposition leader 
Benigno Aquino, claimed that 
government officials "see the hand­
writing on the wall, that he's (Mar­
cos) ready to go at any time." 
"Alii can tell you is that we will not 
stop until freedom of the 
Phillipines is achieved. We will 
fight until death," Aquino told the 
church crowd which, after the ser­
vice, marched several blocks to a 
funeral home where the body of 
Benjamin Tamayo, a 25-year-old 
junk dealer, was on display. 
Tamayo was shot through the 

head during anti-Marcos 
demonstrations last week, which 
also left 10 others dead. The 
special Roman Catholic Church 
service for him was attended by 250 
people, mostly students, who 
chanted, paraded with clenched fist 
and sang nationalist songs. 
A banner reading "Oust the U.S.­Backed Marcos Regime" was strung up in the Church of St. An­thony. Another opposition leader, ex-Senator Rene Espina, told the congregation, "He (Marcos) doesn't have to be killed. All he has to do is resign." 
Three priests and a deacon carry­ing a crucifix led the procession to the funeral home. The group said Tamayo was a victim of Marcos' repressive regime, but the slain man's mother said he was an inno­cent bystander who was caught up in the riots when shopping for the family's food. 
Clipped to Tamayo's coffin was a black mourning pin like those worn by supporters of Aquino. The pin carried the opposition's rallying cry, "Ninoy you are not alone." "Ninoy" was the nickname of the opposition leader who was assassinated August 21 as he returned from voluntary exile in the United States. 
15% Discount 
~ not including
'  sale items  
N.D.-S.M.C.  
FOX'S  JEWELERS SINCE 1917  Students  

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 


Take on everyday problems in science, math or engineering with the shirt-pocket-size HP-11 C. 
• Dedicated scientific functions for quick answers to computations 
• Easy-to-learn programming with up to 
lirm'Diill 

203 program lines 
• Handy program editing tools ' .... ---• Continuous Memory saves your programs and data 

HP-llC Slim-line Programmable Scientific .......... $89.95 
I I I( II 

Get a 10% discount when you present your stiJdent 1.0. Other HP calculators available. 
Georgetown Center 52303 Emmons Road 277-4972 


• Not just for Spanish majors only, but for everyone: beginners, "in between" students, and advanced. Put some excitement into your college career!! 
BEGINNER OR ADVANCED -Cost is about the same as a semester in a U.S. college: $3,189. Price includes jet round 
trip to Seville from New York, room, board, and tuition complete. Government grants and loans available for eligible students. 
Live with a Spanish family, attend classes four hours a day, four days a week. four months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent to 4 semesters -taught in U.S. colleges over a two year time span}. Your Spanish studies will be enhanced by opportunities 

For full information -write to: 2442 E. Collier S.E., Dept. F-1, Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 
not available in a U.S. classroom. Standardized tests show our students' language·skills superior to students completing two year programs in U.S. Advanced courses also. 
Hurry, it takes a lot of time to make all arrangements. SPRING SEMESTER -Feb. 1 -June 1/FALL SEMESTER-Sept. 10-Dec. 22 each year. 
FULLY ACCREDITED -A Program of Trinity Christian College. 
~----~~~~~~~~~~---. 
The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1983 -page 5 

you a rewarding tomorrow. , World's leader in the manufacturing of office furniture. 
Steelcase interviews: October 18, 1983 
Steelcase is looking for business, marketing, engineering or any information systems graduates whose vision exceeds the horizon. We manufacture and market quality office furniture worldwide, and can offer 
RESIDENT PHYSICIANS 
. 
tn 
Orthopaedic Surgery Otolaryngology General Surgery Anesthesiology OB/GYN Urology 
$28,000 
MINIMUM ANNUAL SALARY 
Paid by the U.S. Navy in your final year or two years of civilian resident training 
Excellent benefits include: 
• 
Malpractice insurance absorbed 

• 
Health care benefits (for family, too!) 

• 
30 days of vacation earned each year 


Your only obligation is to complete residency training then serve a minimum of two additional years on active duty as an officer in the U.S. Navy 
Contact: Lieutenant Greg Thompson Phone: 269-6339 or toll free 1-800-382-9782 or see Navy Representative Interviewing on Campu5 TODAY 
" ... A man's reach 
should exceed 
his grasp, or what's 
a heaven for?" 
-ROBERT BROWNING 
Contact us at your placement office on the date shown below or write: Donna Larko, College Placement Steelcase Inc., P.O. Box 1967 Grand Rapids, Ml49501. 
Steelcase 
• • . Watt 
continuedfrom page 5 

person... sometimes some of us have to maybe do things to help our president that is easier for some people to do maybe than the presi­dent himself." 
Meanwhile, Rep. Edward Marker, D-Mass., and Stewart McKinney, R-Conn., introduced a House resolution worded almost identically to that sponsored by Byrd. 
But one Republican senator who earlier said that Watt should consider resigning, Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D., said yesterday he now will oppose such a call. 
"I have said that Watt should apologize profusely or resign. I believe that he has apologized pro­fusely," Pressler said. 
The senator said anyone nominated by Reagan to replace Watt "would have the same philosophy anyway. And it would take four to six months to set a new team in place." 
Baker cited Pressler's decision to support Watt as one indication that the tide may have changed in Watt's favor in the GOP-run Senate. "In a situation like this, the human element becomes impor­tant. Logic doesn't always apply entirely," Baker said. 
Over the past few days, Watt's congressional allies, including Sen. Paul Laxalt, R-Nev., a close friend of the president, have mounted an aggressive lobbying campaign on Watt's behalf. 
A survey conducted by Baker's office showed that, while a majori­ty of Senate Republicans would support Watt in a showdown, the anti-Watt "sense of the Senate" resolution sponsored by Democratic Leader Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia might prevail if the vote were taken soon, sources said. 
Baker's office declined to disclose the breakdown. 
"It looks now like Watt would lose, but just narrowly," given the high degree of Democratic support for the resolution, said one GOP source, who asked not to be iden­tified. There are 55 Republicans and 45 Democrats in the Senate. 
Byrd's measure is an amendment to a nonrelated State Department bill expected to be debated next week. 
• • . Pay 
continuedfrom page 5 

"Our progress in raising faculty salaries during a period of economic downturn speaks to the commitment we have to keeping and attracting the very best teachers and scholars," commented Professor Timothy O'Meara, Pro­vost of the University. 
The report also points out that Notre Dame salaries buy more than at peer universities because the cost of living in South Bend, as reported by the American Chamber of Com­merce Researchers Association, is lower than that in locations of peer institutions 
Buy 
~Observer 
·~~~~ C'~~~~ 

~i~~~__()__l_._ll__t____________________Th-ur-sda-y,_Se-pt-em-be-r2-9,_198-3--pa-ge-6 
The tribulations of the freshman year 
Freshman Year. The very mention of those words conjures up images of hundreds ofkids with campus maps in their hack pockets, memories of Thursday night Emil sessions, and echoes of the familiar "Where are you from?" discourse. 
Mary Heilmann 
Reflections 
Mistaking an upperclassman for a freshman constitutes the greatest insult one human can give to another; most freshmen themsdves take great pains to appear knowledgable and confident about all aspects of campus life (if not Chemistry I 1 5 ). But after a month of classes, it is time to evaluate just how well the Clas.'\ of'87 is adjusting to "Domer Life." 
Prohahly the higgest prohlem facing a Notre Dame freshman is the campus itself, that maze of paths connecting an array of anonymous ivy-covered huildings. During the first days, it was not unusual to hear inquiries of"llow can I get to O'Shag from the Rock?" or to see a freshman circle the Library three 
times in search of the Math and Computer Center. 
Although provided with pamphlets ranging from "Know the Rockne Memorial" to "Which Dorm is Home?", the typical freshman would loath to hrand himself FRESHMAN by consulting the maps in hroad daylight. As a result, many muddled students found them­selves roaming the halls of Cushing looking for their Intermediate French class. 
Another equally formidable obstacle on the road to hecoming "real" Notre Dame students was "Domer Talk." Freshmen soon discoverd that ALL upperclassmen refer to the library as The 'Brar, that the Nazz is not the name of a dining hall concoction, and that the Huddle is not even remotely connected to the Stadium. 
Learning that the freshman register is affec­tionately, if not somewhat de-rogatively, called The Dog Book, proved alarming to many female freshmen, and males of the species who habitually eat in Room AofNorth Dining Hall found similar alarm in the room's nickname: Gay A. 
Even classes have labels -Fidgets with Digits, Rocks for jocks, and Baby Bio among them. Learning the language, however, is a big part ofovercoming the stigma ofbeing a fresh­

man, and most new students took to memoriz­ing the words Rock, O'Shag, and The Pit with a vengeance. (Although the term "laking" remains an enigma to those residents of the center ofcampus.) 
Lest I forget, there is one other aspect of Notre Dame life which each freshman is sub­jected to: dining hall cuisine. The trauma of substituting veal au parma, flourescent gravy, and zucchini frittata for Mom's roast beefand stuffed turkey compelled some desperate freshmen to give up the idea ofeating entirely 
and to depend on dormitory food sales for subsistence. "Make Your Own Sundae" night quickly became an event worth marking on one's calendar and the highlight ofeach fresh­man's week. And, of course, the dining halls soon initiated each freshman into that quin­tessential college element: waiting in line. 
By now, however, and fortunately for every member of the Class of '87, we have become true Domers. The signs of the successful transition from naive freshmen to worldly col­lege students are quite apparent. Most fresh­men have developed the art of sprinkler dodging, and can maintain both a steady pace and dry clothes while tramping around the campus at night. 
All freshmen, without exception, now realize that Cap'n Crunch is more than just cereal and fill their breakfast bowls according­ly. The milestones of the first Emil night, the panty raid, and the first home football game have passed, and most freshmen have weat­hered them quite well. It seems most of the glaring inadequacies which characterized the former high school seniors faded to 
only minor flaws. 

One thing, however, which all freshmen should strive to maintain is their excitement at really heing here at last Probably everyone has seen at least one freshman staring at the Golden Dome with awe or running around the bookstore, arms filled with Notre Dame memorabilia of every possible description. Such behavior may reveal the dreaded fact that one is a freshman, but four years will pass quickly and we'll wonder if we've really ap­preciated our time here. By the time the fresh­men have reached Senior Year, they will have attained the polish and poise which four years brings. 
In the meantime, be patient when a fresh­man asks for directions or inquires,"What's your major?" After all, old habits are hard to break. 
Underestimating the liberal arts major 
There is a growing trend in the country and this university to underestimate the value of non-technical majors. The number of t·n~inn·rin~ majors is soarin~, and with it the tendt·ncy to hdieve that English, history, psy­chology, and philosophy major~. to name a few, are worthless. I am repeatedly asked, in 
Maura Mandyck 
Perspectives 
tones ran~ing from open skepticism to con­descending amusement what I intend to "do" with an En~lish major. "Do you want to be a trat:her?" I am asked. I am envied because I have no homework. Apparently copious readin~ assi~nments do not constitute "real" homt·work. 
Let mt· paust· hcfore the tone of this article hn:omt·s hitter. I ;1m not claiming that a non­t<.·t·hnical m<Jjor is superior to a technical one. I am merely pointing out the v<Jiuc of hoth. Thost· students, myself included, who tlnd m.1th both incomprehrnsihle and boring and ~cience a necessary evil must sympathize with those students who are less than fascinated with the construction of a paragraph or the daily events of a civilization long since vanished. Because of the intriguing dif­ferences between one person and the next, we must learn to respect all areas ofstudy. "It takes all kinds," as my mother would say. 
But allow me to turn pragmatic. It is painful­ly apparent that in today's computerized, technical world that possibilities of employ­ment exist in greater proportions for those with techniea..... ajors. I read an article recent­ly (we English majors are always reading) that seemed to be an attempt to reassure English and history majors. 
It reported on exactly what non-technical majors "did" with their degrees. It was alarm­ing, to say the least. One was a market re­searcher, one a research secretary for an aged historian and one was working for an advertis­ing firm. Hardly scintillating career oppor­tunities. Also, the policy of ROTC programs to insist upon a technical major closes yet anoth­er avenue. 

It is easy to understand why events like these would cause students to close their En~Lish hooks and plunge enthusiastically into computer programming and chemical engineering. But I would like to urge them not to do it. While it is important to adapt and grow with a changing society, it is equally im­portant to not bury an aspect of this and past societies under a pile ofsilicon chips. 
For example, perhaps one day a great and learned scientist, having imme(sed him or herselfsince childhood in chemical equations and laboratory research, will discover a cure for cancer. The world will surely rejoice. But first, this great and learned scientist must communicate this information to the world. Hopefully, he or she will have at least a rudimentary kowledge of non-technical lan­guage and will be able to communicate. 
Or perhaps, the study of literature will be eliminated from our society . No doubt there are many who would enthusiastically par­ticipate in a world-wide hook burning. But to eradicate the voices ofauthors from times and experiences would be to eradicate our herita~e and, thus, a part ofourselves. Practi­cal concerns aside, reading and writing are considered by many to he the ultimate forms of recreation. 
The study ofhistory is frequently dismissed as reading about dead people and ruined civilizations. But the influence ofthose people and civilizations are still felt today. To under­stood and deal with today's crises, we should understand yesterday's. History does indeed repeat itselfwith frightening accuracy and we can often gain clues as to which direction it will take next by studying the past. 
Perhaps the greatest advantage ofattending a university like Notre Dame is the oppm·­tunity to choose among several colleges. But opening the doors ofone does not forever seal the doors ofanother. Become a well-rounded student and, even while specializing in one area, cultivate an interest in another. Do not allow the technical age to devalue the study of Shakespeare, the Civil War, the thoughts of Freud ... Knowledge in many tlelds equips us better for life. 
P. 0. BoxQ 

~ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Bulimia 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the "Schmen" cartoon by Mr. john Gibbs which appeared in The Observer on Wednesday, September 21. In that cartoon, Mr. Gibbs portrays a member or Notre Dame's Counseling and Psychologi­cal Services laughing hysterically after suggesting to a bulimic caller that they "discuss the problem over lunch." What, I ask, is humorous and entertaining about bulimia, otht·rwise referred to as the "hinge-purge syndrome"? Bulimia is a serious and emotion­ally crippling eating disorder that affects as many as 20 percent ofall college age women in the United States. It is a stress-related 
problem, often traced back to family in­stability and conflict, which may have grave emotional and physical consequences on its victims. 
Obviously Mr. Gihbs has seen the well­publicized 10-wcek self-help sessions for bulimics sponsored by the Counseling and Psychological Services. How tragic that he chooses to make light ofa growing social dis­order rather than encouraging its sufferers to seek out help for themselves. The social stigma attached to this misunderstood disor­der is extremely harmful to those directly or indirectly affected by bulimia. Mr. Gibbs' "humor" only serves to perpetuate this stigma, magnifying the discouragement, help­lessness, and humiliation felt by those who so desperately need counseling. This stigma creates a dangerous "veil ofsilence," a silence 

which may have alarming consequences. I am appalled by Mr. Gibbs' flippancy and lack of sensitivity and compassion. 
When will these cheap shots cease at Notre Dame? Should we also chuckle at alcoholics whose lives are often destroyed by shame, guilt, and despair? Should we snicker at those with drug and chemical dependencies? A similar form of social abuse occurred two years ago with the extremely disturbing and ugly·"No Fat Chicks" incident. 
I am well acquainted with the graveness of bulimia, for I have had my own struggle with this disorder. I consider myselfextremely for­tunate to be well on my way to ret:overy. Others are not as lucky. Recovery is a supreme personal challenge that demands time, patience, faith, hope, and courage. Counseling is also crucial. I encourage all men and women 
at Notre Dame who suffer from bulimia or anorexia nervosa to seek help at the Counsel­ing and Psychological Services. There is hope for recovery. 
Name withheld upon request 
School pride 

DearEditor: 
School pride is not measured only by how loudly one cheers at a football game, but per­haps even more so by how one takes care of the school property. judging by the amount of trash we saw on the grounds on a recent weekend visit, school pride among some of the student population is next to nil. 
jack and Cathy Zuza 
Department Managers 
========Ihe_Obseaer=======!~!!~:~~e~-~~~~ ..........David Dziedzic 

Hox (.!. NNrt• Oame. IN -16H6 (.! f<)) .!_1<}-5JOJ Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ............... Daniel O'Hare 
TI:J«' Ohsert•er is the indt•pt·ndt·nt newspapn puhlisht-d h\· the studt-nts of tht-Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas ,-erslt\· ol Notrt· DanK du I.at· and Saint ,\1an··s College It does not nect:ssarilv rt:fln·t News Editor ................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen tht• polint·s ol the auministration of either institution. The nt·ws is reportt:d as at·­News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzaum:: i...a Croix t·uratd~· and as ohjtTti\Tiv as possihlt-l"nsigned editorials rcprt·sent the opinon ofa Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Ann~onasryrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto maJority ol tht· Editorial Uoard ( .ommnl!aries. ktH·rs. ami the lnsidt· Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamilro11 System Manager ............... Kevin Williams tlw \"lt"W' ol thc•r author,. ( :olumn spacl" is availahle to all mt·mhers of rht· communitv. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower 
.\jmrts liditor ... .. \1 ichad Sullivan _
.and tht· tree t:xpresslon of v.•n·•ng opimons on campus. through ktter'. 1s t·ncouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
l .. 


Thursday, September 29, 1983 -page 7 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified from 11:30 p.m. to~ p.m. Monday through Friday. 
advertising from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. 
Friday. The ObsertH!r Saint Mary's office, located on All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by
Classifieds the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open mail Charge is ten ents per seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES 

.... ······· TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082. 
STUDY IN MEXICO FOR ONE SEMESTER. Information Night for those interested in studying one semester in Junior year at Univ. lberamericana. Thurs., Sept. 29, 7:3J pm, Center for Social Concerns. 
.... ·············· ············ 
FIVE FOOT TWO & SMALLER. OP· PORTUNITY TO MODEL FOR PRO· FESSIONAL HAIR FASHION SHOW ON OCT 2 & 3. PREUMINARY INTER· VIEWS FRIDAY, SEPT. 30, AT MAR· RIOTI HOTEL., 7 P.M. ASK FOR LAMAUR. 
ENViRONMENTAL CO.NCERNS ORGANIZATION MEETING TONIGHT 7 PM · LEWIS PARTY ROOM!! 
·······················-········· 
ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST · BLACK CANON SNAPPY 20 CAMERA AT GREEN FIELD ON SAT.,~ SEPT. 17. REWARD. CALL CYNTHIA AT 234-9456. 
FO.UND: Lady's wrist;,.,atch ·i~ vicinity of Bookstore. Call 6264 & identify. ············· 
FOUND: One grey umbrella and one grey plaid wool cap, on Thurs:lay night In LaFortune. They are waiting ofr you at the Lost and FOund in the Ad­ministration Building 
············· ············ 
LOST! one gold Aries medal with dia­
mond stud. Please contact Tim at 8842 
(St. Ed's, 308). 
LOST BWE GORTEX RAINCOAT 
REWARD JOHN 234-8493 LOST; GOLD BRACELET ON 9/251N UBRARY PERIODICAL ROOM OR FROM LIBRARY TO BREEN· PHIWPS. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL MARYBETH AT 1277 IF FOUND. 
LOST: Key chain w/6 keys on a green floating boat key chain. 8239. 
WANTED 
NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO COLUM· BUS, OH THIS WEEKEND CALL: STEVE 1516 
C.i.itrARts-Ts ·AND. ·,;,Ai:e ·siNG"efls 
FOR WALSH SUNDAY MASS. PRAC· TICE THURS. AT 4:30. INFO CALL ANNEATB158 
RIDE NEEDED, U OF I (CHAMPAIN), LEAVE 9/30 RETURN 10/2. WILL SHARE COSTS. KEN 3465 
Attn: all students from So. Calif. Charter flight for Xmas break. Need 147 people. $335 rndtrp from So. Bend to LAX. Call 239-0682 for more details. 
Riders Needed to U of Iowa, Iowa City Wkd. 9/30-1012 Call Jeff at8417 
RIDE NEEDED TO PURDUE OR SUR· ROUNDING AREA FOR WEEKEND OF 9-30-63. PLEASE HELP! WILL SHARE COSTS!! CALL 2976 
NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO COLUM· BUS, OHIO EITHER THIS WEEKEND OR NEXT. CALL FITZ AT 234-5357 
NEED RIDERS TO CLEVELAND ­SPECIF. JOHN CARROLL U. AREA 9130 TO 10/2. CALL WILL AT 2344511 
FOR RENT 
F:iiFiNisHiio ·Ho.usE· ci..osii-ro No 
277·3604 
···························· 
FOR SALE 
GUITAR 12-string acoustic. $175 ­
Gary 232-0550. 
EXOTIC PETS -snakes, Uzerds, turtles, tarantulas, amphibians, birds, mammals. largest selection In 
U.S. Midwest Reptile, 1520 Mishawaka Ave., 232·2095. 
COMPUTER: Almost New COM· MODOR 64 wl Cass. $175 or best of· fer. Call Fred 1145 
AVAILABLE: 2 USC til<. Call (215) 238­9052 after 5 pm. 
TICKETS 
Desperately need Penn State game tickets. Call Brian at 8795. 
HELP! NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR 
G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 284-5084 
W.i,i,;g ·,;,·i,;;de·5·ti=ivE;·,;.n= iid.i."tS 
for ONLY 4 (FOUR) usc tickets. Call 1723. Ask lor Kev. 
USC-NO tix wanted. Paying most. (312)241H650. 
Need IMMEDIATELY 2-<4 GA's for Any Home Game Gall Pete 1224 
MUST HAVE USC TIX -MONEY NO OBJECT -NEED UP TO SIX GAS. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME. 
HELP A RICH friend is in desperate need of two PITISBURGH GA'S. Please help an old friend out of a jam by calling Sarf at 277-1326. You will be richly rewarded. 
HEY DUDES I HAVE 2 Pm GA'S THAT I AM WILING TO TRADE FOR 2 USC GA'S.I AM ALSO LOOKING FOR 1 MORE USC GA. IF INTERESTED CALL BRIAN AT 1165 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC AND/OR PITI OR AIR FORCE CALL JIM AT 1501 
Need 4 GA tickets lor USC Game. Please calf OD at 277-5214. 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR USC GA'S! CALL277·1326. 
$$ NEED MANY USC TIX $$ CALL SUE 284-5173 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL STEVE AT 8079. 
NEED 4 TICKETS FOR NAVY. CALL TOMAT1201 
Needed: 2 Pitt GAs. WiII pay any price! Call 7884. 
HELP!! NEED 2 USC GA'S OR 3 Pm GA'S! PLEASECALLJIMAT8736. 
Must trad-e PITT GAs for USC GAs JEFF6756 
I desperately need 3 GA's or student tickets to the Pitt game. II you can help call Karen at 4278. Will pay BUCK$$!!! 

Need Non-student tickets to NO vs USC. Call collect, (312)565-5959 ><2013 orx2233. 
HAVEPITITIX NEED PENN STTIX CALL 1796 
NEED PITI TIX, STUD'S OR GA'S CALL 1796 
Need NAVY GA's x1695 
Need 2 USC GA's and 1 student ticket!!! Call Don at 286·7273. 
NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR "GOOD OL' DAD"! Please call DAVE at8919 
Parents have never seen an NO home game. Need four Navy GA's. Kathleen x8016. Thanks. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL JACK AT 277·5408 
NEED 3 TIX FOR NAVY. CALL ED AFTER 6 P.M. AT 277-8111. 
Need 1 USC ticket, pay top dollar. Call Tracy at 277-7232. 
.... -~~~-~?..~~~s. ..l
CAMBRIDGE DIET PLAN meetings, personalized counseling, FREE! Cambridge Center, 256-5400. Clip this ad for savings! 
Desperate isn't the word, I NEED, really NEED a ticket to the PITI game. I'm not particular, I'll take a student or GA. Please, call 1311 and offer to sell me your ticket. Will pay big bucks. 
································ 
JODY AND CHERYL, REALLY LOOK­INGFORWARDTOSAT.NIGHT!!!!!!! SATISFACTION GUARANTEED!!!!!!! 
-THE SCREWDRIVER MEN 
DoitupD­
s 
w 
0 
0 
s 
H 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. CALL JERRY AFTER 6 AT X1763. 
OH,GOD OH,GOD OH,GOD Thursday, Sept. 29 Carroll Hall SMC $1 admission 
Come to Stanley Kaplan OPEN HOUSE. EAT, DRINK, BE MERRY and prepare for your future. Thursday 6­7:30pm at1717 So Bend Ave. 
THE "bring back dan devine" CLUB IS NOW BEING FORMED. CALL 239­7475 FOR DETAILS!!! 
ATTENTION ECO MEMBERS ­MEETING FOR THOSE INTERESTED IN THE CAMPING TRIP AND/OR THE NEWSLETTER WILL BE HELD TONIGHT AT TIN THE LEWIS PARTY ROOM. 
ECOECOECOECO -CAMPING TRIP: BE AT THE MEETING TONIGHT IF YOU PLAN ON GOING!! 
t(AfieN: ·~:,;,· ·r~~i1y. ~ .I·.;~ri. y~~ mouth. Please forgive me. TERRY 
DOROTHY DORAN: JUST WHAT DOES IT TAKE TO GET YOUR IN­TEREST? OR AT LEAST YOUR AT· TENTION! OPEN YOUR EYES. 
SHEILA HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIKE 
COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE 
~-H.ICII 

EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
LEARN ABOUT SHK PROGRAMS 
Come Visit Us in Our New Location at 
SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Clr. 1717 E. South Be11d Ave. South Bend, Indiana 4f>637 
(219) 272-4135 

NEW~ BIGGER~ BETTER AND rilRE aJtfORTABLE FACILITIES \~ILL BE 
AWAITING YOU --------AND OUR DESIRE TO HELP YClJ PREPARE FOR YruR EXJVt1S REW\INS AS 1m ASEVER!!! LOOKIMJ FORWARD TO SEEI~ YOJ AT (lJR NEW CENTER !!! 
Thursday, Sept. 29, 198 6:00-7:30 pm refreshments 
N.Y. Jets decide to leave 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The New York Jets of the National Football League are moving to New Jersey and Mayor Edward I. Koch said yesterday the city · would increase its efforts to replace them with another NFL team. 
The Jets will leave 60,372-seat Shea Stadium at Flushing Meadow, their home since 1964, and play in 76,891-seat Giants Stadium, home of the NFL's New York Giants in nearby East Rutherford, N.J. 
"It's clear that they are gone," Koch said at a city hall news conference. The Jets became the second NFL team in a decade to leave New York and move across the Hudson River. The Giants moved out of Yankee Stadium in 1973, spent almost two years in Yale Bowl in New Haven, Conn., and one in Shea before moving into the ballpark bear­ing their name. 
Koch said the city and Jets owner Leon Hess had discussed the fate of the team for about two years, with the city sug­gesting a variety of economic packages to try to keep them in New York. 
"But on Monday, for the first 
time, he told me that under no 
circumstances would the Jets re­
main at Shea Stadium past next 
January," Koch said of the most 
recent negotiating session with 
Hess. 
Harrison Golden, New York's 
comptroller, said the departure 
of the Jets would cost the city 
about $33 million a year. 
AI Davis, though he failed to 
win the support of three­
quarters of the club owners for 
the move, took the Raiders to 
Los Angeles for Oakland and 
won susequent court battles 
upholding his right to move. 
From Satie-Rayel to Gershwinn 
Douglas Niedt 
Classical Guitarist OCt. 25 at Century Center 

The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1983 -page 8 
... Volley 
continuedfrom page 12 
time to practice, however, before hitting the road for an important conference game and tournament. This weekend the Irish will travel to Cincinnati to take on North Star Con­ference opponent Xavier. They will also compete in the Xavier Invitational in hopes of improv­ing their dismal tournament record. 
Vanslager ;~ confident that things will improve, though. 
"We have the potential to be a good team," she says. "The players, however, are the only people who can prove it to their coaches, teammates, and spec­tators. They have to show the capability to play very well. It is there, though." 
IRISH ITEMS -Last year's Most Valuable Offensive and Defensive Player, Karen Bauters, saw some action for the first time this year after suffer­ing a dislocated shoulder and a stress fracture of her leg before the season started. She still is unable to jump and her leg is still not strong, but it is a pro mising sign. 

Douglas Niedt Classical Guitarist 
A worthy companion of Segovia Bream & Parkening 
Oct. 25-Century Center 
r 


Attention Domers & SMC'ers 
AIESEC MEETING Thursday 
6:30 LaFortune Little Theatre BE THERE 
·----------------~
I BRUNO'S II . I
1
11
across from Big "C" Lumber 
1 Now Delivers to Campus 
I OPEN 4-11 7 DAYS A WEEK I 1 $2 off large 18" Pizza 1 l$1 off medium 12" Pizza I I I 
I I
II 211. 4519 II 
L
limit one coupon per pizza offer expires 10/7J 
ONE SEMESTER FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAM IN MEXICO FOR JUNIORS 
Universidad lberoamericana Mexico City 
INFORMATION NIGHT Thurs., Sept. 29 7:30PM Center for Social Concerns -·­
Attention Juniors 
An organizational meeting will be held Thursday, Sept. 29th at 6:00pm in Lafortune Little Theatre for all those interested in working on the Executive 
for Junior Parent's Weekend. 

All Sophomores interested in Making the festival happen: 
Attend the general meeting for the SOPHOMOREUTERAIIYFESTIVAL 
Thursday, Sept. 29 at 7:00 in Chautauqua Ballroom, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
.··: ---J L..:_ .-_ MICHlAIIA BAITERY 
501 E. Sample 
233-2590 10% Discount with student ID 
I RH CHARGING b STARTING SYSTFM CH£CI< 

ND STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE APPEALS 
Thursday, September 30 is the deadline for ND clubs and organizations for appealing the May allocation decisions. All appeals must be in writing and addressed to the Director of Student Activities. The deadline is for appeals only. 
Requests for funds from new clubs or from groups which did not apply in April will not be accepted until January, 1984. 
Goodtimes to Go 

Goodtime Pizza 
836Portage 
FREE DELIVERY 
(ND&: SMC) 
232-1883 
Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 4pm • 11pm Fri.-Sat. 4pm • lam 
MUST PRESENT COUPON TO DELIVERY PERSON 
Goodtimes to Go 16" Pizza your choice 2 toppings 48 oz. Pepsi, Mountain Dew, or Dr. Pepper 
$9.49 INCLUDESTAX 
Umit One Pizza per Coupon Offer Ends 9-30-83 
ELECTRIC&.L ENGINEERS MECHANIC'L ENGINEERS CHEMICAL ENGINEERS PHYSICIStS 
Judge the patentability of scientific and engineering discoveries made by R & D engineers, inventors and scientists world-wide as a 
PATENT EXAMINER 
in Washington, D.C. The Patent and Trademark Office has unique career opportunities offering 
• Challenge and responsibility 
• Career growth 

• Outstanding career Federal Government service benefits 
For more information about your career as a Patent Examiner contact: 
Manager, College Relations Office of Personnel Patent and Trademark Office Washington, D.C. 20231 
Call toll-free 800-368-3064 
(703) 557-3631 (Collect in VA) 


An Equal Opportunity Employer m/f 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1983 -page 9 

FREE! BOX OF CRAYONS 
IF YOU TELL US WHAT IS ON PAGE 24! 
Send cash register receipt and this coupon and receive a FREE BOX OF CRAYONS--just for fun! BANTAM BOOKS, INC. Dept SS 666 Filth Avenue, New York 10103 NAME______________~------------------­
COLLEGEIUNIVERSITY_________________ ADDRESS·-----------------------------­CITY___________STATE._______ ZIP____ 
THE ANSWER TO WHAT IS ON PAGE 24_______ ·~ (fill in) 
··~A Bantam Trade Book 
·i 


··mowettg fptt aQQ occagtong" 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 231-3354 · 
Make the connection 
~'ZJ'ZJ..~'O~'O 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 


Applications are now available atS.U. 2ndFloor LaFortune for: 
PRODUCER AND DIRECTOR FOR SPRING PRODUCTION OF STUDENT PLAYERS 
Submit application by September 30. ?? Contact Mary Stevens 239-7757 

NDRugby ''tries'' to win 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club upped its A-side record to 2-1 by beating Ohio State last weekend, 12-7. The A-side match was played for the Cantwell Cup, a traveling cup between the two schools. Notre Dame is now 3-l in games played for the Cup. 
"It was good for us," Club President Geoff Branigan said of the game. 
Roundtown Madden and John Sweeney each had a try, and Steve Schneider went 2-for­2 on conversions. 
The B-side continued their undefeated, unscored-upon year by defeating Ohio State, 4-0. Bill Weiler scored a try and Smokey McCabe played an ex­cellent game for the B-side. 
The C-side didn't fare as well, however, losing to OSU by a 10­3 score. Senior Dave Desaulniers had a penalty kick and Abdul Mapother played an outstanding game for the C­side. 
The club continues its season this Saturday at l :30 against the Cleveland Rovers behind Stepan Center . 
. . . Drugs 

continuedjrompage 12 
"There is no question that professional basketball players are role models for young peo­ple all over the country and par­ticularly in inner cities," Lanier said. "By telling the world that we as professional players will not tolerate the use of illegal drugs, we are setting a new stan­dard, something that is ab­solutely essential in today's en­vironment." No players will be subject to suspension prior to the "amnes­ty period," which ends Dec. 31 this year, according to the agree­ment. In the meantime, all players will be informed in writing and in person at team meetings o~ the crackdown. 
Oct. 26 
Douglas Niedt 
Classical Guitarist A brilliant master of the guitar 

at the Century Center 
r-------­
t t t t 
t t t Applications for St. : 
t Mary's Sports Editor t are now being t t accepted. Dead-: t line for applications • t is this Friday. For t t more details call Mike t 
t at 239-5323. t
t________j 
~--The Observer 
Thursday, September 29, 1983 -page 10 


STOCK UP FOR FOOTBALL SEASON AT THE KING 
BEER LORD 

KINGS CELLAR 
CALVERT 999 
1 .75 LITER 24 LOOSE 
BEER 

JIM BEAM 
BOURBON 999 
1.75 LITER 

. : :~ 
KINGS CELLAR
MICHELOB

.: . VODKA J99
416 NR 
1.75 LITER 


TANQUERAY
MILLER LITE 
24LOOSE GIN 899 750 ML. 
PHILADELPHIA
OLD WHISKEY 899
MILWAUKEE 
1.75 LITER24 LOOSE 
CLAN MACGREGOR
KEGS 1099
SCOTCH 
1 .75 LITER
BUDWEISER KEGS 
2999 
750 ML. 11.1.\$ DEPOSIT 
CAROLANS
MILLER 112 KEG .. 32.50 
IRISH CREAM 
GIFT SET WI GLASSES 750 ML.
QUARTS 
CHRISTIAN BROTHERS
OLD MILWAUKEEcAsE6.79 
BRANDY 
750 Ml.
BUDWEISER ... cAsES. 79 


Burn's Creative Costume Shop 
608 Liberty Drive, Mishawaka 259-4807 
Fulfill Your Wildest Fantasies 
VVith Our Costumes  
Birthday Cake  Dancing Beer Cans  
Lepracauns  Sequin Gowns  
Spiders  Sequin Jackets  
Fly  Bee  


AND MANY MORE Student Discounts Stop in to Reserve No Deposit with Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID 
HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 9:00am-5:00pm Sat. 9:00am -12:00 noon Extended Hours for Halloween 
. ·: _·.:: 

WINE 
LAMBRUSCO 
RED ONLY 
199 
750 ML. 

J. ROGEl CHAMPAGNE 
249 
750 ML. 
INGLENOOK 

WINES 399 
1.5 LITER 
WINE 
750 Ml. 
299 

·:.::: 

----------------~------~------~ 
BLUE NU 
750ml

'N.D. GRAND OPENING SPECIALS"-REGISTER FOR FREE TV DRAWING SEPT. 30, NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. MUST BE 21. 
399 


·• · . Students: we accept student • •. checks wlth N.D. I.D.s WE WILL BEAT ALL COMPOITORS PRICES!! 
'\ -. 
,,.........f!._('.·.....a .............. -"..........." .."•"'•"•.."''t.·.·····t"•'""··~· .. ·,·....•.. ·.-.'.·... \.· ..... ,·. \ .. '--"-'· ')._··. ••...•..:.:t.lfl:ltiAr.l...~-......;Jia 

,------------------. 
']I['~.cll~~--------------------------------------------·T•h•u•r•s•da•y•,•S•ep•t•e•m•b•e•r•29•,•1•9•83----pa•g•e•l•l• 


CAPT. MORGAN'S NIGHT Spiced Rum Specials All Night 
We'll be giving away T-shirts, mirrors, posters, & more 
Don't miss seeing the Captain in person 

... ' 

Bloom County
,...........;;;........____..., 


!A-i .••Y€5.1HAT'5 IT. I'V£ 
I 
HAV€ 1H£Y RIGHT Hf.R£: NEW )I'JAA 17ME.5 ~ . 
BROKEN tri101H€ SUPERB, 
COMPO~O ''RE:AGAN CI\U.5 1DII\ORROW'S 'J.O(I'EN 'AM£RICA 'S

510RY FlU:. . 
FRONT-~ MOST 1/1\Wfl.BIA~ 
f-IEA[l(.IN£ 


fate 
IHII ONE HAS PPf5181LJTIH A5 A "Mfi: O{(£M6{f(,' Et.CiPT TH£R£'~ SO#'IliHIN6 
IN£J<Pl 1Ul/3LY WHIMPI 5H 
ABOUT HIM. 
I 
Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
9129183 
Fri., Sept. 30 &Sat., Oct. 1 
Sponsored by Abiogenesis 
Engineering Aud. 
7,9,&11-$1 
NO NO NO. 100 WORVY. L£T'5 
JJSTT/Gf'fTCN 1Hifr £3AIJY UPA f3rT. •. 
I Ckl()<··· 

[ Tf/tNK IT~ /HAT HE'r Dl?tNKIN(l 'rA8; IN THI~ 
PICTU/?( 
\ 
WHAT 's Wf{ON{j 
WITH nti'.T? 
ACROSS 26 Julian, 1 -libre for one 5 Suffragist 30 Namein 
leader Chicago 9 Early Bears' 
Egyptian annals 13 Deepblue 31 Heat: Lat. 14 Lancelot's 32 Harem 
costume room 15 Nautical 33 Short term jacket 16 N.Dak.'s 34 Peart flower hunter 
19 Bargain 35 Prepares shlpaccom· fer battle moclations 36 Vintage car 
20 Lememlike 37 Grants 
fruit 38 Takes a 21 Steals from plane 22 Bustle 39 Snoop 23 Likener· 41 Secret 
vous hands 42 Erosion 
Wednesday's Solution 

Berke Breathed 

Photius 
CAFmNf FK££. 
CKtPE':i-' WE 'fl.( LOOKt/116 fO({ TOM ~ELHl ~-AND <;uo!( SEND~ ur 
fl.. PoTMoHEADll 

Campus 
• 
3 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, VS Fortran for Fortran Programmers, 115 Computing Center e 4 p.m. -Lecture, "Frank O'Malley: Thinker, Critic, Revivalist," Prof. Arne Sparr, Library Lounge 

• 
4:30p.m.'-Seminar, "Poet and Critic," Profs. John Matthias and Joseph Buttigieg, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

• 
5:15 p.m. -Meeting on the Century Fitness Club, ACC, Football Auditoruim 

• 
7, 9:15 and ll:30 p.m.-Film, "The Verdict," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Junior Class, $1 e 7 and 9:15 p.m. -SAPB FUm, "Oh God," Carroll Hall, $1 

• 
7 p.m.-Environmental Concerns Meeting, for members interested in the October camping trip, and in the newsletter, Lewis Party Room 


e 7:30 p.m. -Film, "From Mao to Mozart," Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Prof. of Liberal Studies, $1 e 7:30 p.m. -Dating Game, Haggar College Center Parlor, Sponsored by Holy Cross Hall 
TV Tonight · 
p.m. 16 Gtmmte a Break 22 Magnum, PI 28 Trauma Center 34 The Ascent of Man 
7:30p.m. 16 MaMa's Family 8p.m. 16 We Got It Made 22 Simon and Simon 28 19 to 51 34 Jazz in America 8:30p.m. 
16 Cheers 

9p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knot's Landing 28 20/20 34 Matters of Life and Death 
10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News. 28 Newswatch 28 
Far Side 
< 

Darre" suspected someone had once again slipped him a trick spoon with the concave side reversed. 

43 Indonesian 
ox 44 Lifted 47 Early 
Christian evangelists 
51 Chauncey Olcott oldie 
53 Things you 
dig 54 Nullify 55 t.9ect subj. 56 Expression 
of wonder 57 Sprint 58 Hera's mate 
DOWN 1 Cornfield sounds 
2 Measuring standard 3 Tendency to anger 4 Civic leader 5 Rocky cliffs 6 Frenchman's 
lady friend 7 Kin of 50 8 Monsieur's 
flag 
9 Box 10 Swan genus 11 Argentine 
money 12 Suffix with sixorump 
14 "The Sheik of-" 17 School 
dances 18 Duck 22 Stories 23 Dear 
one: Fr. 24 Make tardy 25 Cold 26 Spelunker 27 Andrea­
(sunken ship) 28 "Commer· 
cial"guys 29 Asian civet 31 Applejack 34 Claimed 
as due 
35 San Fran· cisco Bay island 
37 Angling aid 38 Student, for short 40 Likea 
night bird 41 Winby­43 Imitative 44 Hazardous 
suspension 45 Novice 46 Is beholden 47 Macaws 48-Ranger 49 Jacob's 
brother 50 Congeals 52 A Gershwin 
Sports 

Thursday, September 29, 1983 -page 12 
Confident Wisconsin-Milwaukee finds Notre Dame down on luck 

By MIKE SULLI\'AN ahead," said Panther coach Bob her teammates, led by Sue Sports Editor Gibbons. "Ifwe get behind they Pitrof, an all-state basketball tend to fall apart, but they really player who obviously has learn­
Luck just has not been on the toughen up when they gain some ed the importance of getting a side of the Notre Dame confidence." shot offquickly. volleyball team this year. It did not take as much time The final game lasted a long 
First, the team's best player for the Panthers to gain con­time, but only because of much suffered a stress fracture of her fidence in the match as they confusion among the referees. leg before the season even jumped out to a big 7-0 lead. The Panthers won easily, mov­started. Then, a few more However, the Irish gradually ing out to a 13-1 lead before starters were forced to the bench fought back into the match as Notre Dame made a brief com­with injuries. Now, just when largely on the setting of Mollie eback attempt. It was only fit­the injuries were starting to heal Merchant and the net play of ting that Potochick served the and the team was trying out its Terese Henken and Mary final point. new, complex offense, it ran in­McLaughlin. In fact, Notre So it is back to the practice to a surprisingly tough team Dame took a 13-12 lead before court for Notre Dame. from Wisconsin -Milwaukee. Milwaukee got its act together "We're working on the The Panthers only added to the and won the last three points of players' confidence after they Irish troubles by defeating their the match. make an error," said Vans lager. hosts, 15-13, 15-5, 15-5. Despite losing the first game, "They have to realize that an er­
The score was really not in­the Irish were able to show some ror's history and you can't let it 

dicative of the match, however, flashes of the talent that has yet affect you on the next point. as both teams produced some to come through effectively. "That's what the problem was excellent play, including some The defense was able to reach tonight (last night). The girls of the longest vollies that the some shots that it had been got tense and stopped com­Irish have had in the ACC Pit unable to reach before, and the municating. The ball would be in two years. The difference offense was able to set up some coming to a spot between two of was the inability of Notre Dame good scoring opportunities. them and they'd look at each 
to set up a consistent offense "The reason we were able to other to see who would take it." after the first game. play better is that we passed the The team will not have much "The girls seemed to be afraid ball right on center and that 
see VOLLEY, page 8

to set up any kind of offense," allowed us to run the offense. said Irish coach Sandy We were able to score in the Vanslager. "They were running middle." Improve to 5-0 scared and things got sloppy on The Notre Dame scoring stop­both offense and defense." ped after the first game, though, 
Not as sloppy as things have as the Panthers gained con­

Saint Mary's netters win again
been in the preceding games, fidence and the Irish lost some. 
however. The effort last night The Notre Dame decline By KAmY MURPHY The undefeated Belles easily Of their five victories thiswas one of the best of the year at began with the score tied at 5-5 Sports Writer won the match by a score of 8-1. season, the Belles closest contesthome, The only problem was in the second game, Sue In singles play, the Belles was against DePauw when theythe erratic play that allowed Potochick, serving for the Pan­The Saint Mary's tennis team dominated the court, winning
Wisconsin -Milwaukee to jump thers, began a streak that saw won 6-3. This same DePauw 
won its fifth consecutive match all six matches. Junior captain team defeated Saint Mary's lastout to big leads in each game -her win the next ten points and of the 1983 season by defeating and No. 1 singles player Debbie year by a 5-4 score. Killeen feels leads that proved too much for the game. It was not hard serves Taylor University yesterday Laverie won her match, 6-1, 6-0, that the victory over DePauwNotre Dame to overcome. that won the points, but rather afternoon at Saint Mary's Col­while freshman Caroline Zero, shows the improvement of his"We've got a young team that some hesitant play by the Irish lege. filling in for the injured Mary team.
can be real tough if they get and some effective net play by Ann Heckman at the No. 2 spot, So far this season the Belles 
Junior Allison
At Colorado won 6-0, 6-0. have defeated each of their op­
Pellar and sophomores Kristen ponents easily. This weekend Beck, Heather Temofeew, and the strength of the squad will be Betsy Boyle also defeated their tested in the Saint Mary's invita-
Beuerlein to start for the Irish 

opponents with little trouble. 
tional tournament at LeeperIn doubles play, the No. I Park in South Bend. The tour­By DAVID DZIEDZIC the remarks Faust made after looked impressive in each outing. 
pair of Laverie and Beck quickly nament includes three powerfulEditor-in-Chief Saturday's 20-0 loss to Miami. 
The controversy began when Kiel chalked up a victory by a score Division I teams -DePaul,At that time, Faust indicated that had difficulty getting on track of 6-1, 6-2. The Belles are off to Bowling Green, and the Univer­The Observer has learned that Kiel would retain the starting job against the Hurricanes. He com­a good start in defending the sity of Toledo.
freshman Steve Beuerlein will be despite Beuerlein's impressive per­pleted only nine of 21 passes for 81 NAJA state championship. 
the starting quarterback Saturday formance. 
yards and was intercepted twice. Second-year coach John "We expect some very toughwhen Notre Dame plays at Col­"Blair's still our quarterback Beuerlein replaced Kiel on two oc­Killeen says he was pleased by competition," said Killeen. "Butorado. 
because he's been there before," casions. Although he failed to lead his team's performance. "We the girls competed against otherBeuerlein will replace senior co­Faust said following the game. the Irish into the end zone, have improved a lot from last good players at nationals so theycaptain Blair Kiel, who has held the But Beuerlein has spent the ma­Beuerlein led three impressive year and this year we are know what to expect." 
starting job for the better part of jority of the last two practices with drives, completing 13 of 23 passes challenged more with each mat­The confidence the team hasthe three seasons. 
ch," said Killeen. "Competing gained in winning their first fivethe first offensive unit, and has for 145 yards.
Head Coach Gerry Faust, in the national tournament last matches should help them inhowever, denies that a decision has June was an excellent experience facing their tough competitionbeen made concerning Saturday's for us." this weekend. 

starting quarterback. "We won't make a decision until later in the week," he said. 
NBA cracks down on illegal drug usage 
Associated Press distribution of heroin or co­
caine," or is found under newly NEW YORK -The National instituted procedures to have Basketball Association and its "illegally used these drugs shall players union announced a immediately be permanently 
tough crackdown yesterday on dismissed." use of illegal drugs by players, However, any banned player who now will face expulsion may appeal for reinstatement 
Kiel, reached at his apartment from the league for violations. after two years. The approval last evening, would not comment. In taking the strongest stand of both the commissioner and 
Beuerlein said that the coaches by any sports league against the players union is necessary have told him that he will see play­drug usage, Commisioner Larry for reinstatement. ing time on Saturday, but that he is O'Brien said, "The message we The agreement was signed by unsure if he will start. are sending out today is clear: 
O'Brien and Bob Lanier of the 
At his weekly press conference drugs and the NBA do not mix. Milwaukee Bucks, president of Tuesday, Faust discussed the con­If you want to get involved with the players union, at a news con­troversy. "My confidence in Blair drugs, you won't be involved ference. has not wavered as far as his ability with the NBA." There is no question that pro­or as a person, " he said. "But it The agreement between the fessional basketball players are has wavered a bit as far as his mak­league and the National Basket­role models for young people all ing decisions on the field. ball Players Association says over the country and particular­
"Blair is trying too hard. He has that "any player who either is ly in inner cities, "'Lanier said to learn to relax." 
convicted of, or pleads guilty to, I The comments are different from a crime involving the use or see DRUGS, page 9 
I ~ 
l 





