Irish Extra -page 9 

VOL XVIII, NO. 15 

the independent -.tudent new-.papt-r -.en ing notn dame and -.aint man·-. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1983 
An anxious swarm of Irish fans gathers outside Dillon Hall to bear Dillon President Bernie Pellegrino, aka Captain Dillon, urge ND on to victory before its first homefootball game. 
Players, cheerleaders, and coaching staff mem­bers were among the honoredguests who showed up outside the South Quad dorm for its annual pep rally. 
Defense bill passes in house 
WASHINGTON (AP) The House, casting aside pleas by nerve­gas opponents that it rise above "emotions of the moment" caused by the Soviets' destruction of an unarmed jetliner, sent President Reagan a record, $187.5 billion defense bill on Thursday that aut­horizes U.S. production of chemical weapons for the first time in 14 years. 
While the nerve-gas provision amounts to a relatively tiny $1 14.6 million portion of the bill, op­ponents sought to make the final congressional approval a referen­dum on the weapons. 
But the House at large disagreed, voting 266-152 to approve the measure and send it to the White House. Although the bill is Sl0.5 bil­lion smaller than Reagan had re­quested, his signature is expected. The Senate passed the compromise bill, 83-8, on Tuesday. 
Supporters referred frequently to the House's 416-0 approval Wednes­day of a resolution harshly 
ofthe anti-nerve-gas forces, said that while "astute observers know that Congress does not respond to logic and reason ... I hope mt>mbers will rise above the emotion of the mo­ment and reject this conference report." 
Bethune's allies also argued that the moral high ground the United States holds because ofits unilateral decision in 1969 to end chemical weapons production could be lost at a time when the Soviets are being castigated around the world for the airliner attack. 
"Ofcourse, chemical weapons are horrible," Rep. Marvin Leath, D­Texas, said. But, he said, "While we stand on high ground with our backs turned and our heads bowed, the Soviet butchers are gassing hundreds ofthousands ofpeople" in Mghanistan and Southeast Asia 
The provision in the bill permits the Pentagon to' obtain facilites and components for artillery shells and Bigeye bombs, although final as­sembly of the weapons will not be 
condemning the Soviets for shoot­allowed to take place until October ing down Korean Air Lines Flight 1985. The weapons would be
Ne-w Indiana drunk driving la-ws 
007 with 269 people Sept. 1. "binary," meaning they consist of 
"The referendum today is two compounds not dangerous in 
whether we really meant what we themselves but which combine into

could spell trouble for students 

said yesterday," said Rep. Ike Skel­a deadly agent after the shell is fired ByJEFFREY CHOPPIN Ifa driver is found guilty ofdriving "Given certain prerequisites, (the ton, D~Mo. Similarly, Rep. Samuel or the bomb is dropped. Assistant News Editor under the influence, the presiding roadblocks) do pass constitutional Stratton, D-N.Y., said, "the best way The bill authorizes money for all judge can require the defendant to muster," Barnes commented. to express your feelings about the defense activities except pay, 
With tailgaters and parties galore attend an alcohol program' set up by "Around the state we are being chal­Russians shooting down the airliner military construction and nuclear planned for the first football the court system. The defendant still lenged in court. We'll know the is to vote for this defense conference warheads and reactors, which are weekend, this fall's tougher drunk has his license suspended for thirty report." handled in separate legislation. 
see LAWS, page 7

driving law in Indiana may hit home. days. Rep. Ed Bethune, R-Ark., a leader see BILL, page 4 
The law, which went into effect The suspension can be for a lon­Sept. I, makes it easier for the In­ger period of time and may be ac­diana police departments to find companied by a fine and attorney's 

Students moved from lounges
someone guilty ofdriving under the fees. 
influence . If a person is caught driving 

The law removes the burden of during the period in which his . impairment by making a breat­license is suspended, there is a man­By MICHELE MARCHAND number of acceptances this year, wardrobes, and two desks. halizer reading of .I 0 percent or datory jail term ofat least thirty days. News Staff there were not enough rooms to The only complaint about the ac­greater an automatic Class C mis­A second conviction of drunk house all the incoming freshmen. So, tual lounges wa-; the fact that for a demeanor. Even if the police are driving carries a minimum jail term As dormitory space has become on August 26, fourteen women and week there were no locks on the unable to prove that a driver was im­of five days in addition to a possible available, all but three of41 students twenty-four men found themselves doors. Other than that, the rooms 
paired, that person faces at least a felony charge, at the discretion of temporarily housed in study lounges living in study lounges in Flanner, were described as being very com­thirty-day suspension ofhis license if the County prosecutor. have been moved to their per­Grace, and the two Pasquerillas. fortable. he fails the breathalizer test. Saint Joseph County Prosecutor manent rooms. Transfer residents Kim Kohlhaas, a freshman from St. The emotional a-;pect of living in If a driver refuses to take breat­Michael Barnes "reserves the right say that they now have more room Paul, Minn., explained that when she the lounges was much more difficult 
halizer test, his license is automati­to make final decisons" regarding to study, and dorm life in general is first got the letter from Father Hep­to adjust to. Pasqucrilla freshman cally suspended for a year in the drunk drivers. returning to normal. pen, she pictured a huge, uncar­Julie Pietras explained that "It \\<JS state ofIndiana. Indiana has recipro­Barnes stated that the South Bend, During the first two weeks of peted room with forty girls and a just like being a visitor. For the first 
cal agreements with many states St. Joseph County, and Indiana state school all the men on waiting lists draft. Actually the administration week we were still I iving out of·our regarding suspended licenses which police departments "have made en t­were moved out of the Grace and went out of its way to provide the suitcases." would mean that a person's license forcement (of the new law) a Flanner tower lounges and the trans­study lounges with all the comforts The biggest fear expressed by is suspended in those states as well. priority item." fer list was started. As of yesterday, of a permanent room. Each lounge 
see DORMS, page 5

Under the old drunk driving law, He added that the South Bend and all but two of the women were had three beds, three new 
the state had the burden ofshowing St. Joseph County departments have moved out of the Pasquerillas. Many that a driver was impaired, even if received federal funds to aid their ef­characterized the final move as a the breathalizer reading was .1 0 per­fort. relief -a feeling of finally belong­cent or more. The defendant had the Captain Thomas Gargis of the ing, although there was difficulty in right to produce evidence that he Traffic Bureau said that extra police leaving new friends behind. was not impaired. patrols will be in the area around the When asked to comment two days 
The state also had to prove that campus tonight and tomorrow ago on the housing problem at Notre there was a "good stop," that the night. Dame, Father Michael ). Heppen, defendant was behind the wheel Gargis advised students: "Use Director ofStudent Housing replied, when the car was being driven, and discretion ifyou're planning to go to "What housing problem?" He noted that the driver was impaired by al­drink. The best idea is not to drive if that there were only two girls left cohol with a hreathalizer reading of you've been drinking, especially if unhoused; most ofthe study lounges greater than .1 0 percent. you think you'll fail the drinking were cleared out. He asserted that 
The new law still requires a that tests." there is no problem at this time. the police show there was a "good Barnes said that there will he Heppen stated that students stop" and that the driver was behind more cars on the street in the !<hould be able to adjust to any emo­the wheel, but the requirements for general area of the Five Corners, tional difficulties caused by the tem­a "good stop" have been altered. partly due to incidents which oc­porary housing if they wish to attend 
There must he "articulable curred last year on days of Notre Notre Dame. As far as the Depart· suspicion", which is a lesser-require­Dame football games. ment of Student Housing is con­ment than "probable cause" for Barnes commented that there will cerned. they have no say in the stopping an automohile. This new be "a step-up in visibility" intended enrollmt·nt numher, according to requirement calls for a suspicion to to be a deterrent. "The object is nor Heppen, and until more housing is which· "you can give words to," to arrest everybody." built on campus. more students may according to the law. One of the means by which the have to put up with temporary 

Rea~<>ns tor a ~top include any departments intend to enforce the housing next yrar. Fresbman Leabhetb Wets celebrates her last day of living in a violation of normal traffic laws, any law is the usc of roadblock~. It all began with an apologetic let· Pasquerilla East study lounge. Wei!;, who is mm•ing to Pasquerilla 
•allun<"linnioi! nf the ntrs lights or These roadblo~;ks have faced .• •n from the l,ou~ing <lrpartmenr in li7Pst tnday. w :,· rnnong tbe /;~st frPsbman to he relocat'ed ;n a 'I~. l'!I,J ''< r(·:~:!iar ~Jur:u.;; ~:::t. ( _,;ee st()r_:· ,tl h~{t). 



~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·--------------------------­
The Observer 
u 


In Brief 
More than 100 full fellowships to the graduate school of the winners' choice will he given this year in a national competition sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellow-ship Founda­tion. These fellowships are called the Mellon Fellowships and arc for graduate study in any of the traditional humanities disciplines including history. Last year was the first year Mellon Fellowships were awarded, and Notre Dame had one winner in the ' T 'recent graduate" category. Philip Hicks, a 1980 Notre Dame graduate from St. Petersburg, Fla., is now pursuing a doctorate in British history at John llopkins University. Mellon candidates must he nominated hy a faculty member before November 4. Professor Walter Nicgorski is 
Notre Dame's campus representative for the Mellon Fellowships. ­
The Obsen'('Y 
Richard C. Heyde, Republican nominee t<>r Fourth DiMrict city councilman, hdd a news conference yesterday at Bridgt:t Mc(iuirc's Filling Station. Tht: conference commemorated tht: date on which tht: tavern's addition was supposed to be demolished. Tht: addition is still standing. Tht: owners of the tavern, Statt· lkp. B. Patrick Bauer and his sister Tert·sa Bauer, plan to make an appt·al to savt: the addition at the next met:ting of the South Bend Board of Zoning Appeals Sept. 22. --The Obsen•er 
Joseph Sandman, director of foundation and cor­poratt· rdations at \lotre Damt', has been named the University's director of dt·vl'lopment hy William Sexton, vice president for publk rdations, alumni affairs and devdopment. Sandman, whose appointment was dfcctin· Septt·mhcr J'), succeeds Michael .\1;musco. Jr., who resigned n·ct·ntly to become vice president for university rl'lations at \1arqut·ue l :nivcrsity. A native of Cincinatti, ~andrnan has his undt:r-graduate dcgrt:t: from The Athenaeum of ( >hio and an M.A. in English from Xavier University. lie did graduate work at Notre Dame in English and taught freshman composition in ll)75-7·t. Bt·twt'l'n ll)'·l and 1979 ht· was director of career plan­ning and plact:ment and, Mthst:quently, director of foundation and government rdations at Xavier. lie joined the Notre Dame develop­ment stall 111 19'<). --The 0/Jsen•er 
Of Interest 
Freshmen "dogbooks" will he distributed today 
only from-ito.., p.m. in the lobby of LaFortune Student Center. All 
frl·~hmen who purcha~ed the picture rt•gisters must present their 
llh at the time ofdistribution. --The OfJserl'er 
Plans for Octoberfest are hl'ing made by tht• Saint 
Mary's Programming Board which mt:t Wt·dnesday night. In addition to the traditional Octoberfest Beer Tent, a new Root Beer Tent will ht· alltkd thi~ year in front of Regina II all for those students under the age of 21. A hall decorating contt:st; the movie. "Tht: Sound of Music;" and a hayride and honlirt: art: all part of the plans li>r the wt·ek of Oct. 5. Programming hoard members want to remind all studt·nts that Founder·~ Day is ( kt. I I. Also, the opening of tht: Cof­feehouse will ht· Sept. 27 with the group" Fast and Missad." Registra­tion is now through ~t:ptl'lllht:r l.' in tht: llaggar College Ct:nter. ~ The OIJsert•er 
Members of Alpha Phi Omega, a national 
service fratt·rnity. will ht· rt·ading works of Shakespeare hy the llagpolc on South Quad tomorrow morning from I 0 a.m. until I p.m. Dressed in cloaks. till' Notre Dame chapter will collect donations to lwndit Sister \1arita's Primary Day School. The dramatic readings arl' an annual tradition ofthl· fraternity. --Tbe Obsert•er 
Abiogenesis Dance Collective will hotd opl·n auditions this Sunday at -, p.m. in tht: basement of lloly Cross I tall. All men and women arc welcome. No experience is necessary. -The OIJsen•er 

·Weather i · . 
A 50 percent chance today of showers and thun­derstorms. llighs in the mid to upper 60s. !Mostly cloudy tonight with a slight chance of showers. mainly in the evening. Lows in the upper -lOs to low ')Os. Becoming partly sunny tomorrow with the high in the mid to upper 60s. --AP 
Friday, September 16, 1983 -page 2 
• 


In loco parentis 
baby-sit vb: to care for children usually during a 
Scott Bower 
short absence ofparents. 
Photography Editor 
baccalaureate: the degree of bachelor conferred by colleges and universities. 1 'd F 'd 
These definitions, strangely lumped together on a n s I e n ay page in Webster's dictionary, seem appropriate for the iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijj 

Notre Dame student reading through his or her copy of Du Lac. It is unfortunate that, in certain ways, Notre Dame assumes the role ofa twenty-four thousand dollar baby-sitting service. 
DuLac claims to "describe minimally what behavior cannot be tolerated" on the path toward the bac­calaureate degree hut minimal is not necesssarily the way that discipline is administered at Notre Dame. 
Our University serves us as a parental unit. It has the 
final say concerning classes. It provides us with three 
"nutritious" meals a day, as well as washing our clothes 
for us. We are told when we can and cannot visit mem­
bers of the opposite sex. 
These arc not conditions 
which better prepare us for 
lift:. They arc simply a con­
tinuation of high school life. 
Fortunately for most stu­dent~. there are rectors and resident assistants who en­force the rules ofthis univer­sity with grace and tact. To them. if we act like adults. despite the fact that we might he bending the rules ofDu Lac, we will he treated like adults. The compassion and understanding ofthe oc­casional hall staff docs not, however. justify the rules as stated in Du Lac. 
Somt: rules, such as those dealing with injury, psycho­logical well-being, theft, forgery. disturbances and property damage arc laws which we all must live with as a society in order to avoid anarchy. 
lJu Lac states the Indiana codes on alcohol consump­
tion hut avoids making a stand as a university on the 
issue of under-age drinking. It is ironic that an ad­
ministration which will not allow kegs on campus 
refuses to come to terms with the fact that minors drink 
at Notre Dame in direct violation of Indiana State law. 
DuLac then describes the "possession or usc of any narcotic or hallucinogenic as a serious violation." The rule is simple so why then does it add "Although there is some uncertainty about the usc of marijuana, the llni­versity does not consider its usc acceptable."? This comes across as more ofan appology than the assertion ofa rule. 
Next comes the ever popular topic of sex at Notre Dame. The University believes that sexual union should 
r----------------~
I 
Composition Editor................ \iary J·kaly Composition .4ssistant....... Susan O'ilare  I I  INFLATION GOTYOUI  (  I  
l.uytmt Staff. .......................................... <:hris Typt•setters ..................................... Ted Oore .Veu1s EtliltJr.........................Jetf I:I arrington Copy Editor..................... Dan McCullough \ports Copy liditor ............... Mike SulliYan  II  BLOOD BOILING?  II 
Editorials Layout ....... ., ...... Kt·n Ct·rahona lrisb Extra ....................... Suzannt· l.a Croix Ft'alures Lf~)'OUI ........................ Mary 1-lealy .'VD Oay Editor................... Kathleen Doyle .-ld Oe.,ign ....................................... Bob Slota  II  We can help relieve some of. that prenure!  II  
& Mary Easterday PbtJtolirapher .......................... Paul Cifarelli Guest Appearances ... Sarah ("Skin Talk") llamilton. The Domino Hi!-.\tan, John ("I net·d the HX·., for Miami") Adams.  II  HOW?wewillpayyou up to $16 CASH Per week for your time.  II  
Welcome Lillie Alhert and Aunt llarhie. Pott·ntial Bearded Holy Man, Four Miami Road-Trippers and a Throat  II  It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfy reclining chairs while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA.  II  
"You gave mt· promises, promises You knt·w you'd nc:\·er keep. You gave me promises, promises Why did I beli~ve?"  I1  You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your second donation within the same week... AND we will give you a free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab. tests.  II  
-'Vakt•tl Eves  II  PLUS We Will Give You an Additional  II  
The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Friday  II  $4 If you bring this ad with you. (offer applicable to first time donars only!)  1I  
and on home foolball Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Obaerver IS published by Ihe students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mar v s College Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Obaerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre  II I I  For more information call 234·601 0 or come by515 Lincolnway West Bring your I. D. AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS  1I 1r  
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Obaerver IS a member ot The Aaaoclllted Preu. All reproduction nghls are 'IO'~•"Ved  II..  A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others Tues '!nrl Sat 8am-5pm Wed and Fri 9am-5pm_________________  , ~  

o<·cur only in marriage. Why does the University believe this? Once again Du Lac has left a rule sounding more like a vague apology than a doctorinc ofthe Cath­olic Church. 
The clincher is the description of parictals: "Coeducation allows men and women to contribute to one another's education and to form genuine friendships. It is for these reasons that the program of limited parietal visitation in dormitory student rooms is supported by the University." This simply defies any 
train of rational thought and is totally unsupported. If men and women arc friends and equals, why should we he locked away from each other, placed on symbolic pedestals, and dcscriminatcd against as separate entities? Du Lac simply fails to justify its stance on parietals; if two consenting adults want to 
~--+::~ engage in sex they will do so ~ during visiting hours. Offcampus life is a case in 
~ point. Du Lac states that "these rules and regulations apply to all students on campus and off <·ampus." 
But off-campus residence is not effectively regulated by the llniversity. So what happens? Anarchy? Social decay? Would you believe maturity, growth and responsibility? It's true. Students still respect each others rights, liberties and property while making adult decisions based on tbeir own moral values instilled in them hy their family, church and university. Perhaps the reason oft~camptlS living is so appealing to so many seniors is that it allows them to escape the baby-sitting of the residence halls and to prepare for the respon­sibilities of the real world. 
The rules and regulations in Du Lac would have us hdicve that morality is someting that must he legislated. I would like to appeal to the administration for a little t faith in the students of Notre Dame. Treat us like adults and let us make adult decisions based on our ou•n morality. Let Our Lady he an educator instead ofa baby-sitter. 
The Observer 


Room deposits 
given as gifts 
By GRETCHEN PICHLER pen, Director ofStudent Residences. Staff Reporter The $50 goes imo the University's 
More than n 3,000 has been col­general fund until the student lected from the class of 1983 in graduates, when any damages are response to Student Body President then subtracted from the initial S50 Brian Callaghan's proposal last deposit, and "the excess of what is spring that seniors donate their S50 spent is returned to the ~tudent," room deposits as their first alumni said Heppen. contribution. Although a final agreement has 
"The money will be used for not been reached for the distribu­scholarships for needy under­tion of the funds, tentative plans graduate students," said Joseph Rus­have been made to spend $3,000 so, Director of Financial Aid. He this year and invest the remaining added, "We'll probably be looking at S10,000 in endowments, with the seniors first" interest being used to aid future 
After Callaghan submitted the classes. idea at the closing Senate meeting Russo said the seniors would last spring, he sent out letters to all probably have first priority for the graduating seniors, informing them funds, adding that "usually a number ofthe propo~aL "The turnout was in­of seniors have unforeseen financial credible. Everyone in student difficulties, and need funds to get government and in the administra­them through their last semester or tion is really pleased," he said. year. I'm not worried about not 
The SSO room deposit collected having enough applicants," he said. from students during freshman year Callaghan said he will "be pushing is intended to cover any damage that it again ...making it as easy as pos­might occur to their room. sible" for seniors to give. He noted "Actually, they are charged by the that many students receive some year (for room damage) and the S50 kind offinancial aid from the Univer­is kept on for the last semester of sity, and said, "It's their way ofsaying senior year," said Fr. Micheal). Hep-thanks." 
Fighting continues in troubled Lebanon 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Druse The thunderous low passes that militiamen made repeated attacks lasted 30 minutes involved no bom­for the fifth day Thursday on Souk bing sorties, although Druse gun­el-Gharb, but the Lebanese army ners shelled army positins in Souk held the strategic hilltop tewn ei-Gharb and at the Khalde highway overlooking the U.S. Marines at-the intersection on Beirut's southern Beirut airport. Fighting centinued outskirts heavily overnight. through the night. It was the first time Lebanese
' 
Police said the Lebanese casualty warplanes scrambled since battles toll rose to 653 dead and 1,484 broke out between Drueand Chris­wounded in the 12th day of the tian militiamen in the Aley and renewed civil war. Chouf Mountains after Israel 
The army said its troops drove off withdrew to more defensible lines repeated Druse assaults on Souk el­in southern Lebanon 12 days ago. Gharb, and army artillery silenced They had flown training missions in batteries pounding the garrison's the months of relative peace before supply route. the new fighting broke out. 
But late Thursday, government It could not be determined and private radio stations reported whether the six jets returned to the army was engaged in fierce Beirut airport or a newly built air­battles with Druse militiamen who field in the Christian hinterland near made a two-prong attack from the Byblos, 19 miles north of Beirut, neighboring villages of Kaifoun and beyond the range of Druse guns. Baisour. Four hours after the Lebanese 
Two soldiers were killed and sorties, a pair of Israeli warplanes three were wounded mopping up streaked over Beirut on a reconnas­infiltrators, the broadcast reports sance mission. The flight followed said. reports that the Israeli army was sen­
Earlier in the day, Lebanese jets ding daily patrols north of its new roared over the Druse positions in a lines to guard against Palestinian noisy show offorce, a grenade attack guerrilla re-infiltration into the wounded two French peacekeeping central mountains. troops in west Beirut, and bazooka Shortly before noon, an assailant shells killed one Israeli soldier and tossed a hand grenade from a speed­
wounded seven in southern ing motorcycle at a French check­
Lebanon. point on west Beirut's Corniche 
All six Hawker Hunter jets that Mazraa thoroughfare. Two French make up Lebanon's operational air peacekeeper~ were sprayed with force took off from Beirut's shell­shrapnel and were flown to the ravaged airport at dawn and buzzed French carrier Foch, where one was insurgent Druse positions on the in critical condition, a spokesman hills surrounding the capitaL for the French contingent reported. 
Investigation launched into student slaying 
BLOOMINGTON (AP) -Mayor terday morning. Clendening said a Tomi Allison and police officials said police advisory board would hear Thursday there was no initial indica­testimony Thursday night from 
tion of police wrongdoing in the citizens and officers involved with police shooting that killed former and concerned about the fatal shoot­Indiana University ( IU) football ing. player Denver Smith. "We will review the actions ofour 
However, the four officers in­officers to see if they stayed within volved would not return to work un­their guidelines," he said. til after a police advisory board Riley said in an interview he panel met, Police Chief Phil Rilley thought "at this time" police officers said. acted correctly. 

Smith, 24. of Dayton, Ohio, was Riley said the four officers in­killed Monday by police responding volved wouldn't be put back on duty to a report ofa disturbance. before the advisory board met. The 
Based on an initial investigation, board is composed of Clendening, 

Deputy Police Chief Gary Clenden­Riley and the three shift captains ing said he thought officers handled who oversee theforce, Riley said. the situation properly. "This has never happened to us 
"At this point, I see no other way before, and we are trying to follow for them to have handled the situa­all the rules and regulations," Riley tion." he told a news conference yes-said. 
Friday, September 16, 1983-page 3 


AP Photo
A break from war 
Lebanese troops and Druse militiamen have been 
Lebanese troops from the American-trained fighting fdr five days over the strategic area. The 
Eighth Brigade enjoy a rest from fighting in the brigade bas been together for the past six years 
Cbouf mountain town o{ Souk El-Gbarb. and trained together with American adr•isors. 

Psych Services to begin program to aid campus bulimia victims 
ByJOHN AMORES become the focus of national con­arc allowed to share their own 
News Staff cern in the last few years, and feelings. Personal experiences are 
counseling has become a crucial also shared. 

In response to an increased stu­part oftreatment for the bulimic. With these discussion periods, the dent caseload, the Notre Dame The Notre Dame counseling eventual goal is to get to the Counseling and Psychological program is headed by Dr. Daniel J. underlying factors of the bulimic's Services Center is organizing a a Rybicki, a ceritfied clinical psycho­problem and to help her control the therapy group for the third con­logist who specializes in eating dis­causes that drive her to hinging and secutive year to help students who orders. Rybicki is concerned about purging. 
fear they are suffering from the the devastating effects of bulimia A major problem in dealing with eating disorder bulimia. and its high incidence in the Notre the bulimic, Rybicki says, is denial. 
The group will meet for a ten­Dame-St. Mary's community. He is The person will not admit that she week period beginning September offering the counseling program as a has a problem, and a~ a result, she 27, and the deadline for the limited way of allowing bulimics to share will not come to grips with the situa­enrollment is September 22. their experiences and also recieve tion nor can she recieve help. In 
Bulimia is an eating disorder that professional advice and treatment. many cases, it is up to a concerned is characterized by the binge-purge "Because of the nature of the friend to help the bulimic see her syndrome, a habit in which the vic­disease, many bulimics become so­condition. tim goes through alternate periods cially isolated," says Rybicki. "The There are many warning signals of overeating and then self-induced bulimic is ashamed ofher condition, that can identify someone as a vomiting. As a result ofthis purging, so her binges and purges are usually bulimic. The bulimic eats small the bulimic literally starves herself done in private. The counseling meiits and often picks at her food. by not allowing food to stay in her group allows the bulimic to come She is obsessed with food and with system long enough for the out in the open and recieve support the idea of being thin. She ha~ a dis­nutrients to be stored. Many physi­from other bulimics in a kind of torted body image, so even if she is cal problems can occur, and in ex­'buddy system'." thin, she sees herself as fat. treme cases, death can result. The sessions are divided into In women, menstruation is ir­
The profile of the typical bulimic three parts. The first part is a dinner, regular or even absent. Other impor­is a young man or woman (the which, as the sessions continue, tant clues are late-night binges. A disease is more prevalent among becomes a comforting and positive hinging episode can last anywhere women) from a middle or upper experience. "In these dinners, the from fifteen minutes to eight hours. class home, who is achievement­person can relax, and she does not Also, the abuse of laxatives, orientated and also a perfectionist, have to worry about hinging or pur­diuretics, or diet pills is a habit ofthe much like the typical Notre Dame ging," says Rybicki. bulimic. student. Combine this with the in­The second part is a structured Sometimes a bulimic will even 
tense academic pressures on discussion group, in which the par­have different sizes ofclothes in her campus, there is a potentially dan­ticipants recieve professional advice closet to deal with her rapid weight gerous environment for the would­and counseling. fluctuations. Ifa roommate or friend be bulimic. The third part of the session is an notices someone with these 
Bulimia, along with other eating unstructured, more relaxed discus­symptoms they can contact Rybicki disord<:rs like anorexia nervosa, has sion group in which the members at Psych Services for advice. 
8·S Mon.·Sat. 
219-239-5144
Badin Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556
University oi Notre Do~me 
(Evenangs by Appointment) 
UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
---------HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS--------..._ 
Our ma4iter st)'llsh have th~ up·to·date and conventional styles fer the men and women oi the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Let us take qre oi all your hair care needs. 
We also hdve J full lin~ ot r«t..lil halt products and are located on ~&mpu$ iur your cont<!ll.h•nco:. 


Friday, September 16, 1983-page 4 

The Observer 
Chinese stiffen criminal penalties 
PEKJNG ( AP) -In a couple of 

hours last month, ~0 criminals were 
killed at the Peking execution 
grounds near the Marco Polo Bridge. 
More than ~0 died in Shanghai, 40 in 
Tianjin, ~0 in Harhin, 40 in Dalien, 
4:\ in Xiam, 22 in Datong and 12 at 
beautiful Beidahe hy the sea. 
The deaths were proclaimed with red chcckmarks on execution pos­ters in major cities to show that "the people's enemies" had heen li­quidated. 
They arc part of a new crackdown on crime in China where authorities no longer talk of reforming serious criminals and say they have been too lenient in the past. 
Since August, hundreds and prohably more than 1,000 people have died, according to foreign diplomatic sources, travelers and an occasional local radio broadcast. 
China ha~ set a quota of 5,000 ex­ecutions hy the end of October to culminate the three-month crusade against crime, foreign diplomat.-; say. 
These reports could not he con­firmed with Chinese officials, and a news blackut hao; been imposed on all large-scale lquidations. But Chinese travelers report the death quota for the wide-open city ofCan­ton is 500. 
Police and courts have been given new powers and are urged to "resolutely attack the enemy so as to protect the people." The maximum penalties specified bv law already 
·~ rr.&: [Altl:. \.·fli\.J ,twr.n 
C()/f1!111JI\IICAITI{)N 

~~-----,0 R t=l?IU4~ r=IL~t ~~l21~S 
:>eptember f 6
Picnic at Hanging Roc;k (19761 
Directed by Peter Wev Au:\traha. cok>r, 11 0 mtn Welf has an uncommr.... tale.,t for sensuoutly 1f'nmers1ng the Vlf'Wf:r m a hchonal screen world · d HanamrJ Rc.· :k IS nts most mesmem:.ng Om On St Va'enhne s Da) l 190J a group of schOofQ1rts leave fhf:tlf lashtonable boardtng ~)Choo' tor ar. O\t,,,., Th•att of the gtrl9 at'l<j a 
teacher dtsappear wtl 'lOut a ""' • 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
2 00 

...........--lru ~ 11 t311llr-$iooiiiilli
·iliilllli._...... 

*********************************** 
Happy Birthday!!! 




Carol Pratten 
Hope you have a great 20th 

*********************************** 

Under New M;magement~ 

G~t Wt'LL 
Chinese American Reslalralrt I CocktJil Lounge 
•BRAND NEW CHEF •BRAND NEW STYLE 
AUTHENTIC SZECHAUN AND HUNAN TASTE 
I 
LUNCH SPECIAL 
I FREE 
ANYCOMBINAriONPlATE:. I HOUSE FOR ONLY ( 
IN•:LUlltS SOUP IGG ROll $295 I WINE 
fRIEO RiCIINI~if AN[) 1101 [fA I 
Brian & Mary G. appearing every Friday & )'arurday 9prn. lam 
272·7376 

-~ 130 Dixie Way South, South Bend 'Roseland)i._ (N~.·x.1 to R~ndall s Inn) "-··· CJP01 7 DllS A"'WEB 
have been waived by the parliament 
f(>r a vague array of "serious" of· 
fenses. 
The official press is filled with 
reports of scattered executions for 
rape, robbery, embezzlement and 
theft of cultural relics. In the past 
those crimes often drew prison 
terms. 
Criminals are hanished to forced lahor camps in desolate Qinghai, famous for its salt mines. Less serious offenders are stripped of city residence and shipped off to the countryside. 
China still claims it has one of the 
world's lowest crime rates -7 to 9 
incidents per 10,000. But China 
never publishes crime statistics, and 
although opens trials are demanded 
by law, foreign journalists never 
have been permitted to attend any 
trials, except pre-arranged, model 
proceedings that are complete with 
confessions. 
Makeshift detention centers have been set up outside Peking. The city's extensive air raid shelter sys­tem, hospitals and schools have been used as detention centers, according to unconfirmed reports. 
Even the repudiated language of "class struggle," so popular during the Cultural Revolution, has been resurrected, so the battle against crime has become a political struggle. 
China now says the days ofdunce 
ca 


AP Photo
Convicted Sheriff 
Former San jacinto County Sheriff james C. in Houston, Tx., ofviolating the civil rights ofjail "Humpy" Parker, 47, searches for a light after be inmates. Parker was accused ofrepeatedly tortur­was convicted Wednesday by a federal courtjury ing several inmates. At right is bis wife, Melba. 

Ailing Begin officially resigns Israeli Pritne Minister post 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Prime Minis· ter Menachem Begin, whose peace with Egypt changed the course of Middle East history, formally resigned Thursday after six tur­bulent years as leader of Israel. The ailing and dispirited Begin stepped down 1 5 months after he led the 
Jewish state into a divisive invasion of Lebanon. 
The 70-year-old Begin remained secluded at his residence and his resignation lett.:r was delivered to President Chaim Herzog, clearing the way for Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir's probable takeover as Is· rael's next prime minister. 
The resignation ended 18 days of uncertainty and set machinery in motion for the transition from Begin, a guerrilla fighter who rose to Israel's highest office in 1977 and changed the course of Middle East history by making peace with Is­rael's largest Arab neighbor in 1979. 
MR. C. T. PARMERLEE 
Private Detective 
115 S. Scott Street, Apt. A South Bend, IN 46601 (219) 288-6621 

•••••••a•••·····················•a•••··········· 
Seniors planning to attend Law School Professor Thomas Marullo will hold a two-part Personal Statement Writing Workshop in the Memorial Library At.td.: Monday, Sept.l9 at 7:15PM · Tuesday, Sept. 20 at 7:00PM Each sessionwilllast. ap,pro.xi.m.at~lu,.~Qur.s Attendance is mandato11' 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Pre-Law Society 
But his glory days faded with a Lebanese invasion that left the Is· raeli army bogged down. The death of his wife last year and continuing Israeli casualties in Lebanon left him despondent. He wa'> no longer able to carry on in the face ofthe worsen­ing economic'. situation, political bickering in his coalition govern­ment and his persistent health problems. 
His departure was a melancholy affair dogged by reports that he was ill and unable to function as leader of the government. Departing from custom, Begin dedined to deliver his resignation himself, and sent Cabinet Secretary Dan Meridor to deliver the two-line typewritten let· ter to President Chaim Herzog. 
Herzog said he would open con­sultations soon to choose the man "who enjoys the support of the majority in the Knesset (Parliament) and to authorize him to form a Cabinet." 
After consultJng with polltical parties starting next week, Herzog was seen almost certain to choose Shamir, a 68-year-old comrade of Begin from the days when they fought together for independence. 
Shamir was elected by his party af. ter Begin announced Aug. 28 that he was resigning. Shamir has since won the backing of the six parties in the outgoing coalition. 
The official reason given for Begin's seclusion was a skin ailment which prevented him from shaving. His aides strongly denied he was seriously ill, and Meridor said he remains prime minister until a new government takes over. 
By law, Begin is now caretaker premier with full policy-making powers. Confusion arose when Deputy Premier David Levy said in a television interview Wednesday that Begin's absence meant the powers of prime minister had been transferred to him. 
ButJustice Minister Moshe Nissim denied this. The law states that a prime minister remains in office un­less he delegates his powers to a re­placement. Ifhe is incapacitated, the Cabinet can choose a temporary re­placement. Nissim said neither case applied. 
• • • Bill 
continued from page 1 
Bethune. Rep. Clement Zablocki, D-Wis., and others contend that the existing stockpile of "unitary", or pre-mixed, chemical agents is suffi­cient to the nation's needs. The Pen­tagon claims that they are deteriorating and need rt'placcmcnt with a more credible dett'rrt'nt to the Soviets' much larger and more modern supply. 
Among the spt:nding items are S·i.8'5 · ~illion for the MX nuclear mhsil(' program and rcst·arch on smaller.' mohile missiles; S'5 6:\ nil­lion for B-1 long-range bomber~; $12 billion for 22 Navy ships; J I.!H billion for IHO M-1 tanks and S·i08 million for Pershing 2 intermediate· range missiles for deployment in Westt'rn Europe. 


---------~---~------------------------------------... 
The Observer Friday, September 16, 1983 -page 5 


Study show-s American academics "surviving but not thriving" 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Car­negie Foundation called Thursday for a major restructuring of American high schools, with em­phasis on English and writing. It also urged putting more power in the hands ofdemoralized principals and teachers. 
The $1 million, three-year study concluded that most public high schools are "surviving, but not thriv­ing." But it found bright spots as well as bleak ones on the academic horizon. 
It delivered a far less dire judg­ment on the quality of American schools than that reached last April by the National Commission on Ex­cellence in Education. 
Several panels -including a Na­tional Science Foundation board last Tuesday -have urged top prio~ity for math and science. But the Car­negie study declared, "The mastery ofEnglish is the first and most essen­tial goal ofeducation." 
"Writing is the most important and most neglected skill in school. It 

World Bank's report not good new-s for developing countries 
WASHINGTON (AP) The severe recession abruptly inter­rupted the push by poorer nations to impr:>ve their living standards and inflicted "a tragedy of no small proportion" on many communities, an international report released Thursday said. 
Even with the economic come­
back under way in some in­
dustrialized countries, the recovery 
for many developing countries will 
be a slow process, the World Bank 
said in its 1983 annual report. 
As a result, it said, "the next few 
years will be both difficult and pain­
ful." 
The bank, which channels money 
from the richer nations to the 
poorer ones for development 
projects, urged that its lending pool 
for the world's poorest countries be 
put on a "secure and sustainable 
footing" so it can help more. 
The Reagan administration and 
Congress have been reluctant to in­
crease U.S. contributions to the len­
ding pool. 

Dorms 
continuedfrom page 1 
some of the freshmen was adjusting to the change once they were finally 
moved out of the lounges. Having made friends in their temporary dorms, it was twice as hard to move. The longer they stayed in their tem­porary homes, the harder it was to leave, especially during the first weeks ofschool. 
Another difficulty the students had with their temporary housing was their feeling victimized by a cold, impersonal computer. Pietras stated that one of the reasons she chose Notre Dame was because of its personal warmth ...theft act that students aren't just characterized by their I.D. numbers. 
Ironically, all the study lounge students were numbered on a place­ment list according to when their ac­ceptances we"e received. Until she got a permanent room, Pietras said she felt "like number eleven on the waiting list." 
But now, as the housing problem seems to be at an end, at least for this year, most of the students have ad­justed well. Most are happy with their decision to attend Notre Dame, despite the difficulties they had this year. Their only hope, in the light of their experience, is that the ad­ministration realizes that the system is hard on students, and that next year it will be different. 
is through clear writing that clear thinkil1g can be developed," said Er­nest 1.. Boer, president of the Car­negie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching who wrote the report, "High School: a report on Secondary Education in America." 
"Writing should be taught in every class," said the report. 
It called for dismantling the cur­rent system that shunts students into academic, vocational or general tracks. 
Instead, it urged a mandatory core curriculum for all students that would include three years ofhistory and studies of other cultures, two years of foreign language, and three years of literature, writing and arts, as well as two years each ofmath and science. 
The National Commission on Ex· cellence in Education warned in its report, "A Nation At Risk," last April that "a rising tide ofmediocrity t " in the schools "threatens our very future as a nation." 
The Carter administration agreed to give this fund, the International Development Association, $3.2 bil· lion over three years, a sum that President Reagan wants stretched out to cover four years instead To meet that commitment, Reagan has asked Congress for S245 million in fiscal year 1983, which ends Sept. 30, and $1.1 billion in 1984. Congress has yet to approve the re· quest. 
In making its case for more help, the bank said the developing world "suffered severely from the prolonged recession" that ended in the United States late last year but still lingers elsewhere. 
"The impetus toward develop­ment" in many nations "was more sharply broken than at any time since the founding ofthe institution, as the impact of the deepest reces­sion since the 1930scontinued to be felt in all parts of the world," it said. The World Bank, which counts 144 nations as members, began opera· 


AIOSTIIIO'S Welcome Football Fans lll•tle & Local Patrons ltep Specializing lnr Prl...IIIIa -.........Irs
102 s. W•lnut a 
Soutllllnl 

'f0\lr fovori• Cocktails, fqmily Rooms
232·2494 

ond Prfvote EntrMCe. Bonquet·RQOma
Talce Eddy St., fo 

Available with ~rt tb ·create Your 
~... tum RJoh1 

Own Menu. 
on Walnut 



~ Presents 
~ 

THE ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTER EXHIBIT AND SALE 
Hundreds of original movie posters and memorabilia from the silent days to the present. 
WHEN: Thur.&Fri. 9/15-9/16 9am-5pm 
WHERE: LaFortune Center 
Film clips 5hown oil day long at our mini-theatre. 
DON'T MISS ITI 

Including such hils os .. Gone Wlll1 The Wind Flolhdance Olllcer and a $enlleman Plnkflayd'alheWal 
And Hundredl Morell 
But Boyer, who was U.S. commis­sioner of education from 1977 to 1979, told a news conference, "We conclude that the conditions in the schools are mixed, that there arc A's as well as F's, that, in fact, there's been a rising tide toward school im­provement.'' 
"Our best secondary schools in America are the best in the world," he declared. 
The Carnegie report estimated 10 to 1 5 percent of the more than 13 million public high school students attending 16,000 public high schools get an outstanding educa­tion. At the opposite extreme, the schools are an academic failure for 20 to 30 percent who "mark time or drop out." 
The report said most schools are somewhere in between, "surviving but not thriving." It emphasized: "a report card on public education is a report card on the nation. Schools can rise no higher than the com­
munities that support them." 
tions in 1946. 
With the slowdown, in­dustrialized countries reduced their demand for goods from the develop­ing world. Prices for basic com­modities including oil dropped, and interest rates rose, making it more costly for poorer countries to bor­
row. 
"The combination ofthese factors forced developing countries to lower their imports, and hence their growth rates," it said. 
Moreover, many countries were unable to repay their debts to foreign governments and commer­cial banks and were forced to res­chedule, or stretch out, their loans to avoid defaults. 
"Overall, almost as many·develop­ing countries have had to res­chedule loans in the last two years as in the previous 25 years," the report said. 
Thl' Oh!>en·er/Paul Cit"art:lh
Tuning up 
Band trumpet player Bob Spinelli doesn't let the brisk fall weather affect his musical performance as be prepares for Satur­day'sfootball match against llicbigan State Unir,ersity. 

The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your Roommate Headquarters 
/1........_, 
i ~~
L 
· · 
\? 
-0 
~­
0 
Welcome ND · SMC students For any h::my problem 
........~.~~ 
East Bank Emporium Complex 
233-4134 with this ad ... save $2 on cut, $5 on body wave 
for men or women 

9·16 T.G.I.F Bud Happy Hour 
BIG 16 oz. Bud cans $1.25 First 50: Free Bud Caps 2 for 1 Bar Drinks &Free Munchies 9·17 Pre-Game Party 
Open 11 am Double Screwdrivers & 
Bloody Marys: $1.00 
HATE STATE GO IRISH 
·r; Stay on campus and save$$$ by letting us 
bke care of your Dower needs 
Dial M-U-M-8 (686'1) 
10 place an order 
Located off the Bazz in the buement of LaFortune 
Hours: 12:30-&:80 

.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 16, 1983-page 6

The Observer 
Search continues for debris of jet 
(AI') -Soviet fltTt searching for the wreckagt_· of tht· downed South Korean jt·thner sent down a mini­submarine Thursday as II.S. Navy ships sen·ral miles away sounded the tlt-pth.s oftht_· Sea oljapan li>r the llight rtTortkrs oftht· jumho jt·t. 
Tht-re was no word anyone found anything signilkant in the waters Wl''l of Sakhalin l.sland, where the Boeing "'·I"' with 269 peopk aboard was bdievnl to have crasht·d aftn it wa.s hit by Sovil't missiles. 
But a Japanese patrol boat reu>n·rt·d anotht·r decomposed part of a human torso oft tht· north­t·ast coast of llokkaido Island, the llfth such lind helievt·d to have come from tht: lost airliner. 
Japan's Maritime Safety Agt·ncy said the 2·1 Soviet ships were doing most oftheir work at night, making it difl'icult to detnmint: what opera­tions were hcing carrit-d out. 
In much of Wt:stt:rn Europe, a two-wn·k han took dfect against Aerollot, tht· Soviet airline, and wt·ary travelers wert· scramhling for !lights out of Moscow. Aerollot retaliated hy refusing to accept tick­ets written by American airlines and wa.s reported refusing to honor tick­ets from several West European lines also. 
Tht: war of words over the downing of the plane moved to Montreal, where the :\3-nation govt:rning council of the Interna­tional Civil Aviation Organization opt·ned an emngency mtTting. U.S. 
oft1cials predicted the council would condemn tlw Soviet Union and launch an investigation ofthe at­tack on the plane. 
In Washington, the U.S. Senate hegan debate on a resolution ofcon­dt·m•ution identical to one passed by the !louse of Representatives Wt·dnesday. But Sen. jesse Helms, R­N.C., and 10 other conservative senators demanded that "we put some teeth in this resolution" by calling for specilic sanctions against the Sovit:ts. 
As the scareh off Sakhalin con­tinued for the 15th day, Rear Adm. Masayoshi Kato of the Maritime Safety Agency said the 12,000-ton Soviet rescue ship Georgi Kozumin was seen retrieving a small sub­marine about 20 miles north of the Soviet island of Moneron. 
Maratime agency vessels then oh­
servt·d two orange and red striped 
buoys bobbing nearby, ht· said. 
Kato said the agency's boats spotted the li.S. destroyer Elliot, the frigate Badger and tht: 2,000-ton ocean tug Narragansett, at.J a U.S. Navy spokesman said the coast guard cutter Munro and the Navy research ship Conserver were also taking part in the search. 
Another spokesman for the Japanese agency said the American ships were about 18 miles northeast of Moneron and got within a mile of the Soviet fleet at times. 


I~----------------·I I I 
1 Uncle's Irish Pub! II"Rock 'n Roll" to area's hottest 1 
III 1  duo! "Spare Partsn (.'1/f) /')HI graduate) Wed. thru Sat.  iI1 1I  
I  I  
I  I  
~~  Beer Specials  Saturdays  II  
Giant T.V.  
1 1  Monday Night Football Specials September Special  I I  





~---------------~ 
OPEN7.DAYSA WEEK­
4:00 PM tlll1 :30 AM o 
0 
Lnt Order lor delivery taken at1:00AM 

FREE PIZZA 
2 pizzas for the price of one 
Buy uny size "pizza light" at the regular price and receivr lhf' identical piz.:w Freel No other coupons with this offer. Free deli11ery does not apply. 
Polish Prince Pizzeria 


before the start ofa two-week ban onflights ofthe aerial attack on a Korean Airlines civil airliner Soviet carrier and other airlines scheduled for Sept. 1. 
Senate conde01ns Soviet ac-tion 
Last Plane to Moscow 
Passengers board the last Soviet Aeroflot plane which left Frankfurt airport Wednesday 
Moscow. The West German government imposed the suspension offlights to protest the Sovtefs 

WASHINGTON (AP) The Senate yesterday easily brushed aside a conservative drive to pressure President Reagan into tougher sanctions against the Soviet l'nion and joined the House in un­animously condemning tht: destruc­tion of Korean Air Lines Flight 007. 
The vote was 9S-O for the 
resolution, which now goes to the 
White I louse for Reagan's signature. 
"The world will have heard this 
nation speaking with one voice," 
said Sen. Daniel P. Moynihan, D-N.Y. 
Reagan praised Congress for the bipartisan support given the resolu­tion. 
"Tlw Kremlin is on notice," the president said in a statement. "When it comes to responding to its aggres­sion, there are no Republicans or Democrats only Americans, united and determined to protect our freedom and secure the peace." 
The president said the victims of the plane's destruction "must nevt:r be forgotten; nor must we rest until the world can prevent such a crime against humanity from ever happen­ingagain." 
Earlier, the Republican-controlled Senate rejected eight separate proposals for sanctions ran­ging from reducing the numhr of Soviet diplomats in the United States to linking the plane incident wih strategic arms negotiations. 
By easily deflecting all eight amendments, the Senate gave Reagan a solid endorsement of his response so far to the shooting down 
of the jumbo jet Sept.  1 with 269  
persons,  including  6I  Americans,  
aboard.  

Most of the proposed amend­ments werc urged hy conservative Sen. jesse Helms, R-N.C., who said he wanted Congress and Reagan to go ht·yond the "rhetorical tongue­lash.ing" in the resolution. 
"Unless we put some teeth in it, it is going to he shrugged off in the Kremlin," Helms said before the vote. "The fact is we must take real action." 
As dehate began on the resolu­tion, Charles Percy, R-111., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations 

The New Owners of the Ice House Present 

' 1 I I I I I Il The *6.95 Special Prime Rib and Crab Legs 
lc
-A 6 oz. cut or our choice, aged prime rib and 6 oz. or spUt snow crab legs. Includes choice or 'P' po1.ato or fresh vegetable, salad bar, soup and ~ :L · fresh, hot bread. Houset 
Available 5-6:30p.m. on Fridaya.nd Sa.turday Noon until 9 p.m. on Sunday --+--+--4 ~ESfALJ.RANT No ~ou~ns PI~ 1 1 100 Center For reservations call 259-9925 



-I 
Buy a Rib Tip & Chic!<eP Di. :. ~t at Regular Pri(:e :md get the :;pr:(lnd r~t ··• · ·, ;c fv'H..is·: h:;:;:1it :..,.:;:< ,-. 

H ir'1ory ')fTl·>ked Ribs Fried Chicken D<!liciot:,ly Thick Pizn 


1B35 LWE. Souli: BenrJ. 1: .. Pt1\ J111: ~-~~5-8240 
t-J··,, -:a!H1 in cc.~~tr~-r-,:_ ,,.-. wi1h -~!_:.!..o-1· J:: 

r: ·.~sh ·;alue. .,. ,.eel< St. Rd. ?J at Bitlersweet Expires Sept. 30. 1988. 
Grange1,ln. Phone: 277-3143 
Committee, said, "Soviet behavior is 
simply beyond tht: comprehension 
ofthe civilized world." 
Percy, Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr. and some Democrats like Moynihan said strong language contained in the resolution would have an impact in deterring further attacks on plane~ which stray over Soviet territory. 
"This is not a small thing." said Moynihan. "Never before in tht· his­tory of U.S.-Soviet relations have we declared an act of that nation to he a crime." 
Baker had hoped for a quick, unanimous vote on the n:solution, which condemns the Soviet Union for "criminal destruction" of the South Korean airliner, calls for an in­ternational investigation into the incident and a "full and frank ex­planation from the Sovkt Union for this brutal massacre." 
But eight s<:nators. including lldms, proposed amendments call­ing on Presidem Reagan lO impose sanctions against the Soviets beyond the limited mea.~ures takt:n so far. 
A.P ph.otos printable says judge 
AKRON. Ohio (AI') --A judge lifted an order Thursday that had prohibited .\ssoci;1ted Press photog­r,tpher~ from covt·ring the rape and burglary trial of Dr. l:dward Franklin Jackson Jr. 
'·tc:!;~.on i. f··t'ing, ~r.l'd for 22 r:•pc.o.t :tntl :)H rr i ~,-,~ • .·iiiH"S lhat rH_'(.'IIrrcJ ;il ~ :tdllli·!··l' ,I,-; .·1(1~: • ~ _'-.(·• ~ :--.t( 
Ill 
'j. 
.·; -~ 
·' 
.liH. 
"· 
,,; . j.·
lk.•·.· '~; ·. i I 
~hr: . -~d .l ..... 1'<:, I, ing ;11 the ~-um1rui County Court house to te~tify for ha hu~hand. 
-~-------~ 

The Observer Friday, September 16, 1983-page 7 
Indiana resident recollects drunk driving nighttnart: 
KOKOMO, Ind. (AP) -Jose Gomez of Anderson says his life changed forever when three police officers informed him he killed a col­lege student in a drunken driving accident. 
Gomez told a meeting of the Howard County Mothers Against Drunk Drivers that he doesn't remember driving home July 11, 1982, or running his van into two college students as they walked 
along the highway. 
Rebecca Shrout t, a senior at Ander­son College, was killed. Alice Sebring was injured in the accident. 
Gomez' wife awakened him about 
11:30 p.m., when officers arrived to tell him he had been in an accident. 
• • Laws 

continuedfrom page I 
courts' answer ~oon. The Supreme Court (in ddiheration of the state of Delaware vs. Prouse) has suggested ways in which the roadhlocks could 
he legal."  
Barnes  added  that  there  have  
been  six  roadhlocks  already  this  
year.  
During  a  roadblocx.  the  police  

will pull over ten vehicles in succes­sion. This is designed to he an indh­criminatt· fa~hion in order to avoid charges of discrimination. The ot­ficer then asks for license and registration and performs a ~hort safety inspection of the car. The of­ficer will check the lights. turn sig­nals, tire haldness and other items. 
If during the course of the presentation of the necessary docu­ments, the officer has a basis to believe that a driver has been drink­ing, he administers a field test. 
If the officer deems it necessary he <:an take the driver to the St. Joseph County jail to administer a breatalizer test. The officer will secure the car and if the driver fails the brcathalizer test then the driver is given an opportuntity to contact relatives and friends so that the car will be taken care of. 
"We shouldn't punish people fur­ther. Every effort will be made to secure the car," Barnes said. He added that the roadblocks arc situated in locations where parking lots are usually nearby. 
Barnes added that "students arc memhers of the community and as members of the community they should be responsible and abide (hy the laws). 
"They( the students) have a responsibility to the community. We try and alleviate problems they have (concerning student housing and off-camps crime)". 
The law stems from the Gover­nors Task Force on Drunk Dr•ving. The Task Force recci\ed inputs from the Public Defender's Office. the medical community and state legislatures. 
Children in 
camp to be returned 
ALLEGAN, Mich. (AP)-Some of the 66 children who were tai<en away from the House of Judah religious camp after a child was beaten to death may be returned to their parents within two weeks un­der a custody settlement 3nnounced tod3y. 
But Probate Judge C. Ralph Kohn of Adrian ordered a court task force to investigate living conditions at the encampment of "black Hebrew Israelite Jews" before any children arc returned. 
"We're not at any time desirou.~ of taking your children away from you," Kohn said. 
The children are currently wards of the court and in foster homes in eight counties. 
"At the worst I thought I hit a fence ... and then he told me I killed someone," Gomez said Monday during his first court-ordered speech on drunken driving. "It probably would have been better ifl died that day. I'll never be the same. It will be years before I get over it ­if ever." 
Gomez pleaded guilty to the charge of causing a death while in­toxicated and last April was sen­tenced in Madison Superior Court to spend six months of weekends in Madon County Jail, perform 100 hours of community justice work, help start Students Against Drunk Drivers chapters in Anderson, give 

10 percent of his weekly wages, or S33, to that cause for the next two years and accept public speaking engagements. 
In addition, his license was suspended for one year but reinstated on a limited basis so that he can drive to and from work and lectures. He also was placed on probation for five years. 
Gomez said that on the night of the accident he placed second in a racquetball tournament and a friend placed first. The two decided to celebrate, hut he said he arrived at the party late and began drinking a lot of beer to catch up. 
"I got so drunk so fast, I didn't 
even  realize  it,"  said  Gomez.  
"Athletes think they  can  drink  so  
much."  

Gomez said the accident ha-;tened the failure of his marriage and made him want to commit suicide. But af­ter completing an alcohol abuse program, he said he realized his problems stemmed from drinking. 
"It's amazing how a person gets so weak and so blind," said Gomez, who added that he drank because he believed it was the only way to cope with his problems. 
His sister had died in a car crash in the months before the accident, and his marriage was falling apart, he said. 
"By the time ofthe accident, I was probably drinking 25 to 30 beers a day," said Gomez. 
Gomez admitted there had hcen times he'd wondered how he had driven the 13 miles to and from his job at the General Motors Guide Division, but until the accident he thought the only person he could kill on the way home was himself. 
Gomez said the sentence he received was good for him because he now can prove he can "fulfill a function in society rather than he a prisoner." 



View~~O_l_·_n_t_________
Fr-id-ay_,Se-pt-em-b-er-16_,1-98-3-pa-ge-8 

Fallout ofthe Shootout 
~IN'f NJfHIN I 
AIL'BAD 
I 

P.O.BoxQ  
Draft Dear liditor, This letter is in response to the editorial, "Drafting an Alternative," by Keith Picher. The purpose of this letter is twofold. l'irst, I would like to thank Mr. Picher for surfacing an issue which should be at the forefront of national attention. As Mr. Picher implied, a young man who wishes to honor his conscience and defy unjustified conformity is truly trapped in a Catch-ll. The options li:>r such brave, young men are made infinitely smaller by the evident absence of a conscien­tious objector status. I believe that it is quite ironic that a nation, which so desperately desires peace, punishes peacemakers and rewards mindless conformity. It has become apparent that our discriminating government will not permit free will, evidently harming those who really dt·sire ::1 peaceful society. This le:.ds t" my letter's second purpose.. As Mr. PKhcr pointed out, certain institu­tions ofhi~hcr learning art· rewarding types of tinancial aid despite draft rer~ ·stration status. Tht·re exists no question that the University of Notre Dame should also reward such funds. Notre Dame, a University based predominant­ly on C;uholit: dot·trine should regard overwhelmingly the conscience of students who wish to defy an unjustitied federal regula­tion. In a society threatened hy the ominous presence of a possible nuclear holocaust, a Catholic institution such as Notre Dame should set an example. Neglecting to imple­ment such a fund indicates that Notre Dame's  ties with peaceful Catholic doctrine are weak. the supposed moral perimeters of their own In these horrifying times I belkve that conduct when cornered. It is a little like re­society in general, and Catholics in p;,rUcular, discovering the wheel. We may never know should seek solace and faith in God's love. I whether the Russian pilot realized the in­believe that the words of Thoreau best sub­nocence of his target; but those taped con­stantiate my point: versations between the airman and base "...Is there not a sort of blood shed when commander -though we hear only the for­conscience is wounded? Through this wound, mer -suggest that no one cared so much a man's real manhood and immortality flow about the inhabitants of the plane as about out, and he bleeds to an everlasting death." preventing it from leaving Soviet air space. William A. Krais Whether or not the Soviets understood the nature of their target, the brutality of their ul­tin•atc decision would be hard to exaggerate. W.: should be glad that President Rt:agan isGet tough rrJing the Soviets hard (at least verbally) on Dear Editor: tlJiS one, and exacting what mileage he can on The Soviet destruction of the South Korean behalfofcivilized behavior in the skies. passenger jet has held the attention of the Rev. Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B. world for nearly two weeks, and I cannot remember a single event since Nixon's resignation which has commanded so much Prioritiesanxious and widespread conversation. Virtually all of us feel united in our disgust DearEditor: with the Soviet Union, for its mingled callous­After picking up a copy ofThe Observer on ness and incompetence, its truculent self­Thursday, September 15, 1983, I was pleased justifications, its lies and belligerent posturing to see that you chose to give top priority to in the wake ofsuch an atrocity. Our revulsion such a world-shattering event as, "Annual is compounded by the ease with which we panty raid still a tradition at Saint Mary's and can imagine the helplessness of imperiled Notre Dame," (main headline, page one), airline passengers. It is sometimes hard to im­whereas you had the common sense to keep pathize with beleaguered Afghans or such a trivial event as, "Crowding around," frustrated Poles, but most of us can put our­(picture, not an article, on page three, selves more readily into the skins of doomed showing the Pope holding hands of Korean air travelers. pilgrims, who came to see him during his Moreover, many of us feel angry because traditional Wednesday audience in St. Peter's the Soviets have shattered our illusions about Square) inside the newspaper. I heartily agree,  Mr. Editor, that the Pope deserves only a picture, not an article. And I respect your forethought in putting his picture on page three, lest someone complain that his picture crowds page one, where we need more room for the real news .. .like panty raids.' Now that we understand your priorities, Mr. Editor, we may be able to understand our own a little bet­ter. Gary Kopycinski Greetings Greetings Western Hemisphere! Wie Geht's? As you roll into your first semester, we're rolling out of another country. We do have school six days a week, unfortunately we can't find a library anywhere There's no place like the 'hrar, unless ofcourse you've heard ofthe Augustiener "Biau Haus." (Look it up.) Say hello to Bridgett's, Corby's and Nickies', there's nothing "quite" like that here. As sum­mer school draws to a close here in Salzburg, the tailgater tradition continues in Europe. We celebrate with you in spirit this and every weekend, although the effect isn't complete without our Olde Milwaukee. Future ln­nsbruckers ­work hard, it's definitely worth it. We miss you and hope you'll keep in touch. Have an excellent year and Viel Gluck, Auf­wiedersehen, and GO IRISH !!! Your Friends, lnnsbruck '83  

There: arc contradictions in history we can­not measun· ahead of time:. Thus for Ronald Reagan and the Wt·st, the murderous shooting down of the Kort·an passenger plane has had a benign political fallout. 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 

Tht-rc will continue to he a debate on the sources of the action. By a single fateful deci­sion in the skies over Sakhalin the Sovil'ts have brought down a shower of grief for them­sdves. Was it hy accident or design? Was it (more likely) hy the working of the: Sovkt military mt:ntality and the Soviet system of li>rce and fear? 
Whatever the source:, however, note the dimensions of the political fallout. The <ieneva arms control talks will go on and President Reagan was right in insisting that they should. But in the bargaining, the Soviet negotiators will now he on the defensive. 
Even more will this he true of the deeply flawed "peace movement" which has been the chief tributary and ally of the Soviets in lighting the implacement of Western missiles in Europe to match the Soviet missiles. Sym­bolically the sound of the shooting down of the Korean jet now drowns out the sound of the German anti-American demonstrators. The Left in Germany has taken the place ofthe 
Right  as  the  chief  problem  of  German  
democracy.  
The  fallout  also  strengthens  Ronald  

Reagan's hand in dealing with his Congres­sional Critics on his missile-building and arms­control program. Already some of his chief opponents -Democratic Sens. Christopher Dodd (Conn.), Patrick Leahy ( Vt.) and Paul Sarhanes ( Md. ), all ofthem ofthe "soft Left" ­have attacked the Soviet mentality behind the 
shootdown and noted the harm it threatens to the Geneva talks. 
I have several times commented on Reagan's luck as president. What Machiavelli called Fortuna -the fortunate if bli.nd acci­dents of leadership -had been granted thus far to Reagan in extraordinary measure. 
The decline of interest rates, and the up­surge of the economy have formed one in­stance. Now, exactly when Reagan faces a formidable voter alliance of blacks, trade uni­ons, women and anti-nuclear groups, the plane-downing incident gives him the politi­cal edge again. 
The always voluble Democratic presiden­tial candidates are for the moment strangely mute, as if a sudden cold wave had frozen them and their speechwriters into an unseem· ly catatonic state. 
The plane tragedy is no less tragic for having had such a fallout, nor are President Reagan's anger and grief any less authentic. 
Yet, the contradictions of history arc just as real. 
Students of history will recognize the dramatic parallels on this score between Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. 
It isn't a tidy parallel. British national angcr and national pride were more deeply involved than in the American case. Mrs. Thatcher started in more dismal political doldrums than Reagan's, and rode a wave of patriotic feeling to greater heights of popularity than Reagan is likely to reach. Also, the suicidal splits in the British Labor Party crippled the Opposition beyond anything that the pretty uninspiring Democratic candidates arc likely to do in the coming election. 
Yet the parallel persists -mainly in the luck which has brought the two leaders, in however different ways, out of the political quagmire to a more contident position. Can it be possible, as some Tory and Repblican preachers hint, that God is a conservative? 
Department Managers 

=~Ihe_-Obse&ver== Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic /lox{)..'Vt•trl' l>amt•. /\' .,r,<;<;r, (.!/C)) .!YJ 'iJOJ Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosrnoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
lhe ( Jhst'f'l't'f' '" 1ht· rndt·pt·mlt·nt nt"wspapt·r published h\ tht· students olthc Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas \Trstlv ol Notre Damt· du l.ac and ~arnt \lar.··, ( :ollt·gc It dot's not nt•t:c,.arilv reflect News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen tht· poltut·s ol the adnllfllstratron ol t·ithcr instrtution. Tht· nc:ws is n·portt•ll as at· News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzaum: i...a Croix curatt·h· ami as ohjtTtrn·lv as possrhk I nsignnlcditorials rcpn·sent tht· opinon ola Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . ............. Mark Miotto ma1orll\' ol tht· hlrtonalllo:1rd < .ommt·ntarit·s. ktet-rs. and tht• Inside ( ·olumn prt'St'nt Features Edllor . ............... Sarah Harniltoll System Manager ............... Kevin Williams the news ol thnr authors <.olumn spatT ":n·alfahk to all nH'mht·rs oftht·communitv. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower .111<1 tlw lrt'l' t·xpn·"um ol '.1rvm~ "P'"'""""' campus. through it'tters. •~ encouraged. .\jwrts l:'ditor ... . \lichacl Sulli\·an 
Founded November 3, 1966 




Friday, September 16,1983 

an Observer sports supplement 
... ' -..
-. 




Trying to sack the Spartans 
Irish neea to oe wary of new MSU attitude 
ByLOUIE SOMOGYI Steelers defensive coordinator through their glory Sports Writer years in the 1970's before resigning the post last year in order to fill the vacancy left by Waters. 
Fired up from a successful debut last week under Within one year he has already outrecruited Bo new head coach George Perles, the Michigan Spar­-Schembechler in the state of Michigan, conducted tans will enter tomorrow's game against Notre the most intense and grueling practice sessions at Dame with an enthusiastic and confident outlook. Michigan State in years, and instilled a confident at­
"Anytime a new coach comes into a program titude within the team that it lacked during last there's a lot ofenthusiasm generated, and I don't year's woeful 2-9 campaign. think there's any question George Perles has done "Notre Dame and .Michigan are the games I'm that at Michigan State," says Perles' Irish counter­' paid to win." says Perles. "I don't intend to see us part Gerry Faust. "An opening day win like that (a lay down and die t just because we see blue and 23-17 comebacl<: against Colorado) can do won­gold." ders for the confidence ofyour players. So I'm sure While Perles doesn't feel intimidated by the they'll come down here Saturday and feel like they Notre Dame mystique, he is very aware ofits talent. can play with anybody." "Notre Dame is one ofthe bigger teams in the 
The fiery Perles is a sharp contrast to the 
see SPARTANS, page 10 

grandfatherly image that Mu ddy Waters seemed to portray for the Spartans the last three years. A su­perb leader, Perles served as the Pittsburgh 



A rough reunion 
Greg Bell Irish Tailback 

Summer acquaintances, Bell and Banks, meet again 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports Writer 
One game concluded. One game won. And at least one thing is certain with regard to the Notre Dame football team -Greg Bell is back. 
The question whether he would be back or not twas answered when Bell took a pass from Blair Kiel in the first period last Saturday, then faked right, sidestepped left, and scampered into the endzone. The one-year wait to return was over. A lot must have beeo going through Bell's mind as the referee raised his arms signifying Notre Dame 6, Purdue 0. 
"Mainly what was running through my head was that it had been a long time since I got the chance to cross the goal line," recalls Bell. "It was a feeling like, 'I'm back. I'm healthy. And against the people who last year stopped what I considered could have possibly been one ofmy better years. This (the touchdown) is one ofa lot to come.' 
"I wanted to go across that end zone a lot that day," smiles Bell, "and I eventually did. It was real sweet." 
These are happier days for Greg Bell, a native ofColumbus, Ohio. Last season he suffered what doctors termed "a serious injury," a broken fibula in his right leg. Finished for the season, Greg sat and watched his teammates -something that was more painful to him than the break itself. 
"Anytime you're hurt, you are going to be upset," says Bell, "especially since we weren't doing so great in the won-loss column. I'm happier now. I'm back in action and have a chance to have some fun and play a little football." 
He has a chance to have some fun because his rehabilitation ofthe leg went very well. Forced to sit out spring drills in order to give his leg extra time to heal, Bell contemplated his role on the team in wake ofAllen Pinkett's emergence at tailback. He came back to Notre Dame this summer with a lot to prove -to himself. 
"I really did not have much to prove to Coach Faust," says Bell. "I think he knows what I can do. I just had something to prove to myself. I had an ankle injury which was considered a bad injury. I wanted to prove to myselfthat Icould come backfrom it and be just as good as I was before." 
It is still too early in the season to predict, but it would appear that Greg may have come back better. Last Saturday in Ross-Ade Stadium, Bell weaved, slashed, leaped, and barreled into the end zone -not once, but four times. 
Bell erased any doubt anyone had concerning his recovery on his first score, and proved that he may be better than ever on his last. 
On the play, he took a pitchout from Kiel on the 5-yard line, and started left towards the flag. After breaking free from defensive tackle Chris Scott's grasp, Bell used second and third effort to muscle through the Boilermaker pursuit to score. 
see BELL, page 11 



MSU 

Friday, September 16, 1983-page 10 
George Perles comes from the pros 

Rebuilding a tradition: to get MSU football back on track 
George Perles Spartan Coach 

continued from page 9 
country and has as much talent as any college 
team," says Perles. "On paper, I call them tops in 
the nation." 
Like last year's I 1-:\ Notre Dame victory at East Lansing, Notre Dame-Michigan State games have traditionally been hard-hitting defensive battles. Senior Carl Banks, an all-America candidate at linebacker, will lead another strong Spartan defensive unit that has not let Notre Dame into the Michigan State endzone since the tirst quarter of the 1981 game. 
While Michigan State's linebacking and secon­dary corps are well-stocked with talent. its defensive line i.'i suspect because ofa lack ofgame c:xpereince among the starters as wl'll as a lack of great size. The line averages out to 6-2. 2-H pounds, small by collegiate standard~. hut Perles says that his team can and will compensate for its lack ofsize by using technique and leverage. 
l lndersized or not, Faust singkd out the quick­
ness of Michigan State's offensive and defensive 
line as the most impressive attribute of the team. 
''I'm very impressed with their down people on 
the defense." praises Faust. "Our offensive lineman 
are going to have to be more proficient with their 
blo1.:king because oftheir quickness." 
Because quickness is the biggest asset for the Spartans this year, Perks has promised that a lot of blitzing will bt· used by the Spart;ms in ordt·r to pressure the opposing quarterback. 
The offensive line for the Spartans, though big­ger than their defensive teammates, impressed Faust evt·n more with its quickness. 
Tht·· much improved Michigan State offense will be e\Tn more effective since tailback Aaron Roberts is expected to st·e a lot ofaction after having sat out most of last Saturday's game against Colorado with an ankle injury. Roht-rb, a junior. was rt·gardcd as the top prep running hack in the nation three years ago and was heavily recruited hy Notre Dame. After a fine freshman seas ton in which he lt-d tht· team in rushing and averaged five yards a carry. Roberts had a hitter and frustrating sopho­more campaign in which he opt·nly disagreed with 
coaching philosophies on the team and sat on the bench for ·most of the year. Spartan fans arc still waiting for Roberts to live up to his trt·mendous potential. 
Freshman Bohhy \1orse. son of 19'i6 Notre Dame captain Jim \1orsc, will probably get the starting nod at tailback. Morse, like his coach, made a dazzling debut last week by scoring both Michi­gan State touchdowns. 
The offense hardly revolves around the tailback, though. Because the offensive line does come off the ball so quickly, the Spartans like to run a lot of 

Editor's Note: The following is a reprintfrom a spring issue of MSU Alumni Magazine. 
By ROBERT BAO 
Editor 'JSU Alumni 'Jagazine 
He looms over ~partan Stadium, looking professorial in tweed. his relentless face softened hy a "say cheese" smile. Just as the camera clicks. the wind turns his hair into renegade. lluut·rmg ~trands. It's a rare glimse nf (leorgc Perles. who :-eldom lets hb hair down thc~c days. 
\1ichigan State'~ nt·w football coach has hit the ground ~priming since his arrival in Dect·mher. IIi~ watch always set tive minutes fast, a hahit that thwart~ even punctual associates, !'cries has thrust the rebuild­ing timetable into overdrive. 
"I want to turn things around immediately,'' he ex­plains. "By the time next season begins, I want to go int< every game feeling we can win." 
Is instant success realistic? "It's realistic to me," he snaps. 
He sinks into a chair in his office, after several hours in meetings, glancing ever so slightly towards the clock. He sits erect, exuding confidence. Behind ltis cavalier optimism lie hours upon hours ofgroundwork he and his staff have expended. 
In just three months they have imposed order, dis­cipline. and organization on a program that was reeling from three straight ignominious y t ears. Initial con­troversy over MSU's $175,000 settlement with the Philadelphia Stars, a payment made from athletic revenues and not tax dollars, has not prevented them from making concrete progress on three crucial fronts 
• • . Spartans 
quick trap plays with junior fullback Carl Butler. 
Butler led Spartan rushers last week, gaining 80 
yards on 21 carries. 
The passing attack appears to be prettysolid too with sophomore quarterback Dave Yarema. Yarema, one of the most sought after quarterbacks in the nation two years ago, took over as the starter last year in the eighth game an went on to lead the Spartans to their only two victories. Yarema com­pleted an impressive 15-of-23 passes for 179 yards last week against Colorado. 
Michigan State's passing attack consists ofa straight dropback style that, at times, sends out as many as five receivers. The best ofthem is senior split end Daryl Turner who caught six passes for 128 yards against Colorado. An honorable­mention Big-Ten selection as a sophomore, Turner is a constant deep threat with his great speed. He scored the Spartans lone touchdown two years against Notre Dame on a 63-yard pass play. Ever since his arrival as a freshman, Spartan coaches have said that Turner is destined to become an All­American and one of Michigan State's all-time great receivers. 
Junior punter and placekicker Ralf Mojsiejenko, meanwhile, will probably have a lot to say about Notrt· Dame's field position. Faust listed good field position against Purdue as one ofthe keys to Notre Dame's rout of Purdue last Saturday. Mojsiejenko, however, is one of the premier punters in the na­tion and hopes to keep the Irish pinned deep in their territory. He averaged 44.6 yards per punt last year, and is also an outstanding placekicker as evidenced by the SO-yard ticld goal he kicked 
against the Irish last year. 
"I've always liked Michigan State's skill position people," says Faust. "Ifthey continue to play with confidence, they'll do a lot ofdamage. They only won two games last fall, but both of them came af­ter Yarema moved in at quarterback late in the year." 
As for the Irish, Faust simply concludes that the team has to play errorless football in order to win. 
"We didn't play poorly for an opener, but we've 
got a long way to go and a lot ofthings to improve," 
says Faust. "I think we found out that we weren't in 
as good shape as we thought we were, and that's 
going to be crucial in these warm-weather games." 
Notre Dame will not play at home again until Oc­tober 22 when they entertain Southern Cal. Miami and South Carolina are just two ofthe warm­weather sites Notre Dame will play at after the Michigan State game. He'll see just what kind of shape the team is in. 
But nothing would compare to the heat the team might feel ifit overlooks a confident and enthusias­tic Michigan State football team tomorrow. 
--recruiting, conditioning, and strategy. 
In just five weekends, MSll recruited a dass that r:tised as many hopes in East Lansing as eyebrows in Ann Arbor. It includes 7 ofthe 15 Michigan players on the Detroit News "Blue Chip" list. 
"Michigan State sells itself," explains Perles, who himself took a $70,000 a year pay cut to work at MSU. 
The administration helped mightily. President Cecil ,Iliackey. or Vice-President Kenneth Thompson, or a senior llnivcrsity otflcer personally met every single recruit visiting campus. When taken to Spartan St,tdium, each recruit saw his name !lash across the scoreboard. They also likely did not miss Perks's diamond '\upcr Bowl rmg-one of t(mr he won \Vith the Pittsburgh 1 Steckrs. 
You can't win without great players, but you can lose with them. 
-Perles 
Recruiting alone, however, is not enough. "You can't win without great players," says Perles, "hut you can lose withthem." Players need training and experience. And conditioning. 
Assistant coach Carl "Buck" Nystrom, All-American MSU guard in 1955, devised a physical preparation program "as tough and demanding as I've seen," accord­ing to Perles. Agrees senior offensive tackleJim Lamb: "It's triple what we ever did before." Adds co-captain and All-American candidate Carl Banks, "It's really tough, but it's positive. Everything goes according to schedule. There's much more discipline." 
The rigorous workouts, it is hoped, will sustain MSll performance in the fourth quarter, a period that scaled seven heartbreaking losses in 1982. 
Strategy changes will give MSU football what Perles calls "the Pittsburgh look"-a lot oftrapping and drop­back passing on offense, with heavy use ofdouble-wing formation which can send up to five receivers cris­scrossing upfield. 
Defense will rely on the 4-3 formation. "It'll be tough, aggressive, with lots ofblitzing," notes Perles. "We'll pressure the other team's quarterback." 
The strategy conferences unfold over long sessions that sound like pig Latin. 
"We have to establish a common terminology," ex­plains Perles, as he glances towards the clock, anxious to return to a meeting with some strategists on loan !from the Steelers. 
While Perles rewrites the MSU playbook, many ob­servers have begun to rewrite the book on Perles. 
Those who have long known him marvel at the way he has overcome his youth in a "tough, melting-pot neighborhood near Tiger Stadium," as administrative aide Ed Rutherford, his high school coach, puts it. "Rough around the edges" is a common description of t:he old Perles. One sportswriter called him "an open­collar guy" whose "idea ofa good time is six beers and six hours of telling football stories." 
Perles's character, however, has always been rock solid. He is intensely loyal, hard working, genuinely concerned about athletes and their education, with su­perb leadership and organizational tal ens. "A lot ofplain vanilla," says Buck Nystrom. "He's an endless worker and never feels the job can't be done." 
Duffy Daugherty, who coached Perles and then hired him as an assistant in 1967, recalls him as "a tireless worker with great knowledge who knows how to im­part it on the ticld." Predicts Duffy, "We'll be ready in the fall, just watch." 
Perles's good qualities remain intact. But, with his wife Sally's advice, his rough edges have been dramati· cally smoothed out. He works in coat and unloosened tie in a profession dominated by sweat suits. The sil­houette that earned him the nickname "Georgie Porgie" has been trimmed by ridding red meats from his diet and by jogging three miles a day -rain, hail or snow. And no more six-beer hull sessions. 
His idea ofrelaxafion? To Sally's delight, it'~ cooking (and cleaning up afterwards). "Cooking is a form of love," says Perles, who briefly owned a resteraunt in Pittsburgh. "I love feeding my friends. feeding my wife, keding my kids." 
What does he cook? "Anything and everything," he says. Quiche? "No," he laughs. "What I cook depends on who I'm cooking for." <>··•'-'<:~Next fall the gridiron chef may find reason to serve crow in Ann Arbor and South Bend. Ifthings work out the dish should arrive exactly five minutes past the fourth quarter -l'erles's time. 



. • MSU 


Friday, September 16, 1983-page 11 
I 


Rick Naylor Linebacker~s quiet play gets no respect, just results 
ByED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
Wht·n defensive positions are considered. probably one of the roughest to m<t~tcr is that of outside linebacker. "To play the position. the player has got to be the most poised, disciplined player we've got on our defense," says Notre Dame's second-year outside linebacker coach Greg Blache. "He's respon­sible for so many things -both the run game and the pass game. He must be one ofthe most flexible ath­letes on the team.". 
This year's Notre Dame squad is fortunate to have this crucial spot filled by veteran Rick Naylor. Naylor, the 6-3, 227-pound senior from Cincinnati, Ohio, is starting his second season at the outside linebacker slot. 
Naylor made eight starts there during his junior campaign before suffering a hip pointer against Penn State which forced him to miss the Air Force and USC contests. 
He made nine tackles in last year's 
season opener against Michigan and 
added eight against Oregon before 
concluding the 1982 season with 45. 
Naylor made starts against 
Purdue, Michigan State, Florida State 
and Air Force in 1981 as well as 
seeing action in all 12 games in 
1980, his freshrr.an year. 
So far this season, Naylor is offto a good start, contributing 10 tackles in last Saturday's 1983 opener against Purdue, tying him with fresh­man Mike Kovaleski for high on the team. 
The loss of Mike Larkin for the 
entire .season, combined with the 
fact that many young players are 
now seeing starting assignments for 
the first time, should certainly add to 
the supportive role of the veteran 
Naylor. 
With the dawning of this new 
season, Naylor put most personal 
goals aside, instead centering his ef­
forts on what he hoped for the team. 
"Going into this season, I'd like the 
team to do well," he says. "Since the 
trip to the Sugar Bowl my freshman 
year, we've had two rough seasons. 
It's my senior year, so I hope that this 
year we can really turn things 
around and bring respect back to the 
team." 
Although he expressed the desire 
for the team to do well, Naylor has 
also been working hard to improve 
his own play as well. 
"Over the summer I worked a lot 
with weights," says the senior 
marketing major. "Although I didn't 
put on a lot of weight, I feel my 
strength did increase. I've also done 
more running to get my body in bet­
ter shape." 
Naylor also feels that he has im­
proved on his understanding of the 
game, and his coach agrees. "Rick 
has improved on his general aware­
ness of the opponent," says Blache. 
"He's become 'Tiore of a student of 
the game as far as knowing who he's 
going up against and what they're 
likely to do." 
Along with his improved skills, 
Naylor also has certain other at­
tributes that he feels are key at his 
position. 
"I'm tall and have long arms," he 
says, "and this is really important 
when it comes to playing off blocks, 
especially from opposing tight 
ends." 
"His experience is very impor­tant." adds Blache. "He's been there before and he's just got an awareness that helps him on the football Held." 

Naylor's abilities are looked upon highly by his coach, but Blache notes one thing that could make him even better. 
"The only criticism I can tind in Rick is that at times he's lacked con­sistency," says Blache, ·'and that's only because he's not that physical, nasty, looking-to-hit-somebody­every-play player. He's more of a finesse player. Ifhe were a little n·as­tier, he'd make a phenomenal foot­ball player. He has a lot of inate abilities that you just can't teach." 
Head coach Gerry Faust, for whom Naylor played at Cincinnati Moeller, also recognizes Naylor's abilities as well as a new prepared­ness. 
"He's really come to play this year," says Faust. "I think he had a conflict within himself that he wasn't intense enough all the time, but he's made up his mind that he's going to be intense all the time. He's worked very hard and is really a silent leader on the field." 
When reflecting on his leadership abilities, Naylor tends to agree with his coach. 
"I am pretty quiet," he admits. "I try to lead by example, but ifl do see something as the game goes on, I'll say what I have to say." 
"He's not the kind that's going to go out and make a lot of noise," con­tinues Faust. "He's very quiet and very steady. If he can keep up the steadiness and consistency he's shown this fall, he'll be a great leader as far as influence and getting the job done." 
Getting the job done is very im­portant to the success of a team. Over the years, however, Naylor's successes have often been over­shadowed by the likes ofBob Crable, Mark Zavagnin, or Mike Larkin. Naylor doesn't see it as overshadow­ing, though. 
"Bob(Crable), Z( Zavagnin ), and Larkin deserved everything they got," he says. "It really doesn't bother me, as long as I think the coaches respect what I do on the field." 
"Rick's got a thankless job," says Blache. "He's at a position where he's got to be disciplined. He can't just fly to the football, because if he does, we'll be giving up big plays. We all like to be recognized when we do something good, and I'm sure Rick's no exception." 
"I liken him to Rodney Danger­field," continues Blache, "because he gets no respect for the job he does. He's solid, he's sound, and he's not flashy. He just gets the job done." 
When Naylor completes this final season at Notre Dame, he'll be looking to get the job done else­where. 
What does the future hold for Rick Naylor? 
"I'd like t(J play pro football,"he says. "Ifnot drafted, I'd like to go free agent and hopefully be given a chance to make it." 
For the time being, however, the 1983 schedule must still be com­pleted, and Naylor's presence will certainly be appreciated. 
"I think it's our advantage that we have Rick Naylor," says Blache. .....':ij~'.;i.. ,going to be a tough guy to replace when he's gone. He adds a dimension to our defense. He adds a stability that I think we really need." 
• • • Bell 

continued from page 9 
"When I ran (on the play), it was funny," laughs Bell, "because af­ter a while I didn't know where I was going. Then I sawthe line and I figured I had to get there." 
This week however, there will be a much tougher defense trying to prevent Bell from scoring. The Michigan State Spartans are coached by a man in George Perles who prides himselfon defense. 
And the pride ofhis defense is 6-6, 235-lb. senior linebacker, Carl 
Banks. 
Bell has already been introduced to Banks, both on and offthe 
field. 
"This summer I worked at theJack Lambert Football Camp," says 
Bell in explaining how he got to know Banks offthe field. "Carl was 
one of the guys there. We spent a lot oftime together and we had a 
lot offun working with the kids at the camp. Carl is a great human 
being and a nice guy." 
However, once Carl Banks buttons his chin strap, it is no more Mr. Nice Guy. His ferocity on the football field has earned him first-team Ali-Bi~ Ten honors as a sophomore and as a junior. His coaches think he is the most dominant defensive player at MSU since George Webster wore the green and white 14 seasons ago. 
Bell has played across the line ofscrimmage from Banks only once, but what an afternoon he had. On that day two seasons ago, Bell had runs of 11, 11, 22, 26, and 32 yards, scored two touchdowns, and had a 75-yard touchdown run called back because ofa penalty. For the day, he carried 20 times for 165 yards. 
"We tried while we were at the camp not to talk about the Notre 
Dame-Michigan State rivalry," says Bell. "We just more or less tried 
to avoid it as much as possible." 
Tomorrow. Bell will be trying to avoid Banks, for he knows just 
how well the Flint, Mich. native plays football. 
"He's a hard hitter and great football player," comments Bell. 
"He's playing the outside linebacker position, which is a good spot 
for him, because, in the middle, there's less area to cover. On the 
outside, he gets into a lot ofplays and makes some great tackles." 
Tomorrow afternoon, Bell and Banks will be reaquainted. At least 
one ofthem, Bell, is looking forward to the confrontation. 
"When it was time to part." remembers Greg, "all I could say to 
him was, 'Hey, see you in September."' 
September is here and so are the Spartans. Both Bell and Banks are ready. The subject they so carefully avoided talking about must now be dealt with. Tomorrow each man will let his play do the talking. Don't expect either to be at a loss for words. 

MSU Friday, September 16, 1983-page 12 
II·~ 
r 

I. yzn·=ns:TZ? TW'E rmztw &lif. Cllnlf ' WIWI h&&IL&It 
NOTRE DAME VS. MICHIGAN STATE 
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium (59,075) Yards per Ga'lle 522.0 418.0 PENAL TIES-YARDS 9-73 8-68
TIME: 1:30p.m.EST;Saturday,Sept.l7, 1983 
FUMBLES-LOST 0-0 5-3
TV-RADIO: WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) 

TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 21 21 Jeff Jeffers and Jack Nolan By Rush1ng 13 5 
By Pass1ng 7 14 
Metrosports Replay Network 

By Penalty 1 2 Harry Kalas and (!eorge Connor THIRD DOWNS-CONV 5-15 7-19 
12 a.m. Sunday WNQU-TV(Ch. 16) Percentage .333 .368 POSSESSION TIME 30 40 29 20 M1nutes per Ga'lle 30 40 2920
Notre-Dame-Mutual Radio Network Tony Roherts and AI Wester WNDU-AM I ';00 
SERIES: Notre Dame 31, MSU 16, Ties I 
SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP
LAST MEETING: Oct. 2, 1982 at East Lansing Notre Dame II, MSU 3 

Bell 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 Johnston 0 7-7 0-0 0 1-2 10 RAN KINGS: (AP) Notre Dame 4th, MSU unranked Pmkett 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Bavaro 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6
TICKETS: Game is sold out 
Abraha'll 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
NO 1 7 7-7 0-0 0 1-2 52 OPP 1 1 0-1 0-0 0 0-0 6



THE SCHEDULE 
MICHIGAN STATE NOTRE DAME 
RUSHING G NO VDS AVG TO LG 

SEPT. 10 def. Purdue 52-6 SEPT. 10 def. Colorado 23-17 SEPT. I"" MICillGAN STATE SEPT. 17 at Notre Dame P1nkett 15 115 7.7 1 35 SEPT. 24 at Miami (Fla.) SEPT. 241LLINOIS 
Beginning in 1949, the win­Franctsco 9 81 9.0 0 33 Bell 11 45 4.1 3 12

OCT. I at Colorado OCT. I at Purdue ner of the Notre Dame­
Groo'Tis 2 33 16.5 0 25 

OCT. H at South Carolina OCT. 8 MICHIGAN Michigan State game each 
C. S'T11th 6 33 5.5 0 18 OCT. I '; Army at Meadowlands OCT. 15 at Indiana fall receives the Megaphone Brooks 5 17 3.4 0 7 OCT. 22 SOUTHERN CAL OCT. 22 at Ohio State 
· Abraha'll 4 14 3.5 1 10
Trophy. The trophy is spon­
Carter 2 9 4.5 0 9
OCT. 29 NAVY OCT. 29 MINNESOTA 

sored jointly by the Michigan K1e1 2 0 0.0 0 1 NOV. '; PllTSBl'lRGH NOV. 5 at Northwestern 
State and Notre Dame Alum­Beuerletn -8 -8.0 0 -8 
ni Clubs of Detroit. 

NOV. 19 AIR FORCE NOV. 19 at WISCONSIN NOTRE DAME 57 339 5.9 5 35 OPPONENTS 40 146 3.7 0 16 
THE GAME 



THE STATISTICS
The 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO

Megaphone 

TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 522 418 K1el 14 9 .643 0 166 2 Total Plays 76 79 Beuerle1n 3 1 .333 0 17 0 GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Michigan St. Spartans 
Yards per Play 6.87 5.29 Groo'lls 2 0 .000 0 0 0 
NO 19 10 .526 0 183 2 OPP 39 19 .487 4 272 1 
RECEIVING G NO VDS AVG TO LG 
Jackson 2 67 33.5 0 61 Favonte 2 35 17.5 0 18 Howard 2 32 160 0 24 P1nkett 2 23 11.5 0 14 Bavaro 1 17 17.0 17 Bell 1 9 9.0 9 
NOTRE DAME 10 183 18.3 2 61 OPPONENTS 19 272 14.3 1 42 
DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK 
Kovaleski 10 0-0 2 0 0 Naylor 10 0-0 0 0 0 Brown 8 1·1 0 0 0 Johnson 7 0-0 0 0 0 Marshall 7 0-0 1 1 0 Fur]amc 6 0-0 0 0 0 Toran 6 0-0 0 0 0 D1ngens 5 0·0 1 0 0 Gann 4 0-0 0 0 0 Autry 4 1-2 0 0 0 McCabe 4 0-0 0 0 0 Mosley 4 1-1 0 0 0 Murphy 4 0-0 0 0 0 Kle~ne 4 0-0 0 0 0 Butler 4 0-0 0 0 0 Corsaro 3 0-0 0 0 0 Gohc 2 1·4 1 1 0 DIBernardo 2 0-0 0 0 0 Sp1ei'T1aker 2 o:o 0 0 0 Lawrence 2 0-0 1 1 0 Ball age 2 0-0 0 0 0 Dorsey 1 0-0 0 0 0 Banks 1 0-0 0 0 0 Wilson 1 0-0 0 0 0 
NOTRE DAME 103 4-8 6 3 0 OPPONENTS 103 3-5 2 0 0 






PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor, and some well­known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the out­come of the week's major col­lege football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the 


Louie Somogyi Jane Healey David Dziedzic Will Hare MlkeSulllnn Steve Labate Mary DIStanlslao Marylou Vepsen
spread. In other words, it is not 

Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Editor-In-Chief Sports Writer Sports Editor Sports Writer Guest Celebrity Random Student 
enough to pick the winner of a 

8-5 7-6 1·6 7-6 5·8 8-5 6-7
given game. The person must 11.2 pick a winner and give the underdog points. 

Georgia over CLEMSON by I. '5 Bulldogs Bulldogs Tigers Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Tigers 
Iowa over PENN STATE by 2. '5 Lions Lions Lions Lions Lions Hawkeyes Lions Lions OKLAHOMA over Ohio State by 6 Buckeyes Sooners Sooners Buckeyes Buckeyes Sooners Sooners Sooners WASHINGTON over Michigan by 3. 5 Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverine·s Huskies Huskies Wolverines AUBURN over Texa.~ by I Longhorns Eagles Longhorns Eagles Longhorns Eagles Eagles Longhorns II.I.INOIS over Stanford by 6 Cardinal Cardinal lllini Cardinal Illini lllini Cardinal lllini MIAMI over Purdue by 11.'5 Hurricanes Hurricanes Boilers Boilers Hurricanes Hurricanes Boilers Hurricanes MARYLAND over West Virginia by 3 Mountaineers Terps Mountaineers Terps Mounta.in.c:.c:.r~ Mountaineers Mountaineers Terps Missouri over WISCONSIN by I Tigers Tigers Badgers Tigers Badgers Tigers Badgers Tigers UCLA over Arizona State by 4 Devils Devils Bruins Devils Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins SYRACUSE o.ver Northwestern by 6 Orangemen Orangemen Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Orangemen Wildcats Orangemen DUKE over Sotldl Carolina by 4 Devils Gamecocks Devils Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Devils Devils 
NOTRE DAME over Michigan State by 16 Irish Irish Irish Spartans Irish Irish Irish Irish 



~--~ ~-----~-----­
~-·:·~i 
.; ·:~ I





Showcase 
'I

Friday, September 16, 1983-page 13 
I 



letters to a lonely god 
Russian Roulette 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
I 
used to make it a practice to get invited to supper at the houses ofoff-campus students. I made a project of writing letters asking to be invited for a meal or a cup of coffee. I became very familiar with the neighborhoods that had become student ghettoes. I can still point out porches where beer was flowing like a river on weekends. Inside, the living room couches were broken down; there were bars in the dining room with lighted beer signs over them. The bedroom furniture wa~ often one mattress piled on top ofanother resting on the floor. In winter, thermostats were tuned low to save oil. I bundled up good if[ was visiting inJanuary, or I might come back to campus with a frozen rump. 
The food was consistently good, and occasionally, it was wonderful. Mothers, I used to think, would be proud oftheir children so careful to include vegetables and green things in their meals. Spaghetti was often served, orchicken, and once a week or so, I was sure to be treated to beef. I dreaded being ser'ved tacos, bur­ritos, or tortillas, because I have no appetite for South­of-the Border stuff. Students living off campus were proud ofliving well, thriftily. The savings they told me about did seem impressive, until I learned many households ate dinner together only four nights a week. Nobody ate breakfast, lunch was on campus, and munchies were not stocked for the evening snacks. It was no mystery to me why it would have been more ex­pensive for them to eat at the dining hall. 
Off-campus students were impressive in the ways they took care ofthemselves. They wouldn't hide the fact they had spiffied up the joint for the benefit ofthe visitor. The neatness was impressive; anyway, I hadn't come for an inspection tour. I heard stories ofan ill-kept house on Notre Dame Avenue, where, in April, they still hadn't washed the Thanksgiving dishes. They stored plates, pans, and silverware in boxes under the sink, and waited, I guess, for the locusts to come. As far as I know, Iwa~ never invited to eat at that house, at least, not until May, when the dishes were done in time for graduation. 
For the information ofoff-campus students, or on­campusones, Griffin is still available, just for the sake of friendship. Ifyou can't ·nvite me, allow me to invite you. When Griffin is available, social occasions can be ar­ranged, if you will be my guest. 
Occasionally, on my off-campus visits, I came in 
handy as a savior figure. However, I don't accept invita-
Par 3 swings into the spotlight 
by Pat Beaudine 
P
ar 3 is not just an ordinary band content with playing an endless string ofshows, hoping that one day a record company might notice them. Instead , their approach is a bit different and more involved. Actual­ly, mere involvement is a gross un­derstatement in light ofthe fact that they recently recorded, pressed, and are working on a distribution deal for their first single, "Let it Go"/ "Daddy's Uttle Girl." However, producing a single is not the only thing on their minds, and it has been like this from the beginning. 
Presently composed oflead singer and bassist J.P. Keyes, keyboardist Tim Keyes, guitarist Scott O'Grady, and drummer Rob Bayne, this Notre Dame band began playing out by fill­ing a few slots in the Nazz's schedule. From there, they began securing shows at such campus musts as Senior Bar and Corby's. Yet,after a few shows, they soon realized that the management end of being a band was taking too much time. After all, they had to think about the quality oftheir music, and then maybe devote some time to school work. That's where Robin Brown stepped in. After assuming the task of representing the band, Brown contracted gigs at The Music Box, The Alternative, and else­where, enabling the hand to con­centrate on its music. 
Par 3's music is as hard to <:atagorize as The Police's early ef­forts, hut several characteristics are easily recognized. The most predominant one, at least on their single, is the reggae heat supplied 
from guitarist O'Grady. Other ele­ments also emerge, like rock, new wave, and a dance orientated rhythm, but that is where all com­parisons to The Police stop. Even though Par 3 does have its share of"[ want you--do you want to see my loft?" fun loving songs, their roots are more embedded in Bob Marley andJimmy Cliffposturings, which lends a definite seriousness to some oftheir music. "People are starving out there," J.P. notes, "and Marley never hid that reality." Keyes also feels that when millions ofpeople don't have the means to eat, it's sometimes hard to play good time, dance music. 
Par 3's future is not entirely focused, and as drummer Rob Bayne said, "We're taking it one day at a time." However, some plans are cur­rently set. For instance, they are working toward their first album which will, ofcourse, be self mas­tered. Yet, the readiness ofneces­sary finances makes its release date tentative. Also, they would like to improve the quality oftheir record­ings, seeing how their first disc, like early Beatles material was ultimately mastered on two channels. Another future goal, one that Par 3 is very excited about, is to produce a low scale video which might one day be 
seen on MTV, either on regular programming, or on a special seg­ment like "The Best Unsigned Bands." Scott Bower has control over its direction, and might choose to film "Daddy's Little Girl," yet, plans for this are still undecided. The future also includes a trip to the Houston/ Austin area, playing as much as possible, and, more im­mediately, doing shows at The Nazz tonight, and performing at a victory 
tions planning to serve as the evening's missionary, convert-maker, or confessor. Our Catholic faith is tentative in its hold on us; it easily gets lost among the contusions oflife. The flow ofgrace becomes inter­rupted through carelessness as a young Christian moves geographically away from the celebration of Mass and the sacraments. I am concerned about bringing the strayed sheep home, but only with the strayed sheep's encouragement. I once inquired about obtaining the former Goose's Nest restaurant, at the corner of Notre Dame and Howard, as a student center where Mass could be said, at least on Sunday's. The price asked was outrageous. I have been known to offer liturgies in stu­dents' backyards in seasons when the weather is good 
So I don't go out to dinner on a pastoral investigation, though I don't think it hurts a Catholic to talk to a priest I don't sniffaround, looking for lapses in faith and morals, though I'm old enough to ask a question with­out feeling embarrassed, ifl think it would be helpful. I hope I am a witness to the truth about Christ, but young men and women are also witnesses to me, so we should be respectful ofthe other's worth. 
I discourage off-campus students getting dogs. Their getting dogs is my greatest hangup. Studentscan't afford to keep dogs. Table scraps are not good enough for a dog's health; regular visits to the vet's for shots are ex­pensive. Students don't have time to house-train a pup­py, or keep him company. The dog grows up wild and untamed; when he's six months old, nobody wants him (or even more sadly, her, for an obvious reason). The animal has become a nuisance; its transgressions are no longer forgiven because the poor thing is cute. The dog is put to sleep, or sent offto roam by itself The same script gets reenacted a dozen times a year. Students want to be greeted by a pet when they come home from class. They don't realize that a household will be blessed from entertaining the clergy at dinner. Both the entertainers and the guest play a form ofRussian roulette when a stranger comes to take tea I try not to be a bore or overstay my welcome. My manners are good, and I flush after using the bathroom. I do polite things to show my gratitude. An Irish legend says that an angel is sent to guard forever the place where a priest has said Mass. Surely to heaven, a leprechaun at least is sent to the house where the padre has supped well, and engaged in holy conversation. 
Darby O'Gill II, my cocker spaniel, says, ifasked, he will come with me. Ifnecessary, he says, he will accept the scraps from the table. 
celebration Saturday at The Ramada Inn. (Somehow,the Ramada seems to be assuming something.) 
Theirsingle does back up that theywant to say something relevant. The A side, "Let It Go," is a some­what eerie songabout isolation with images ofdaylight being far away, deserted faces staring in the line, and spirits sinking low. Written byJ.P. Keyes, the song does have lyrical power, and is competently played, but lacks a little commercial appeal to make the cut truly come alive. However, with access to a state-of­the-art recording process, the record's potential could be reached.That goes double for the flip side, "Daddy's Little Girl." A more commercial tune,the song is about a girl who's got everything, except a strong one-to-one relation­ship because she lets her new car and other materialistic pleasures get in the way. However, she ultimately loses in the end when her daddy becomes unemployed, an event which the writer, Tim Keyes, 
regards with little pity. 
Even though the sound quality of the recordings is somewhat com­parable to those in today's market, great improvements can be made in that department, and therein lies Par 3's potential. They are also a relative­ly young band with time to do any­thing they please. In other words, 
_even though you won't see Par 3 in the Top Ten next week beside The Police, a feat which they probably haven't thought or cared about, they'll be lurking somewhere taking things one day at a time. 
Pat Beaudine is a sophomore Business major from Chesterfield, Missouri. 

•THEATRE 

This Sunday The Morris Civic Center will house a one-time perfor­mance of"The Pirates of Penzance," Gilbert & Sullivan's celebrated musical, in a new version by The New York Shakespeare Festival. 
The production, with its Broadway cast, starring Maria Muldaur, has won three Tony Awards. Tickets for the 7:30p.m. performance are available by calling 284-9111. 
-Romantic Comedy, the love story/comedy by Bernard Slade, con­tinues at the Bristol Opera House tonight and tomorrow night at 8:15p.m. 
eDANCE 

Tonight, the year begins at Chatauqua with the Back to School Dance, sponsored by the Notre Dame Progressive Musik Club. There will be door prizes at the dance, which will be from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
•ART 

This Sunday the Snite Museum opens an exhibition entitled "Religious Narrative in 16th Century Rome." The works will be on display in the Print, Drawing and Photograpy Gallery until October 30. 
•MOVIES 

Alfred Hitchcock's "Rebecca," the classic mystery starring Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine, will be shown tonight and tomorrow night in Cushing Auditorium at 7 and 9:30p.m., for Sl. 
In the Annenburg, the 1981 film "Quartet" shows tonight at 7 for $2. 
In South Bend, the Scottsdale Mall Theatre features 'Risky Busi­ness" this weekend, with shows at 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, and 9:30 p.m. 
"Easy Money" and "Nightmares" are both playing at the University Park Mall cinemas, also every two hours from 1:30 to 9:30. "Smokey and the Bandit, Part 3 is playing every two hours from 1:45 to9:45. In addition, there are midnight movies: "Pink Floyd the Wall," "Enter the Dragon," and "The Rocky Horror Picture Show." 
At the Town and Country Cinema, "Vacation," "Chained Heat," and "A Boy and His Dog" will light the screens every two hours starting at 1:30, 1:40 and 1:45 respectively. 
•NAZZ 

The Nazz in the basement of LaFortune kicks off the year this weekend with the well-known and popular student band Par 3. They will be performing tonight from 9:30 on. Saturday, John Foryt and friends will perform and an open stage may follow. All of these per­formance are by students, with no admission charge. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 

To get everyone fired up for Michigan State, there will be a pep rally tonight at Stepan Center at 7 p.m. The more the merrier, so be there! 
For more celebrations, join the Senior, Junior or Sophomore classesfor tailgaters before the game. All will be held on Green Field. In addition, the Seniors are sponsoring a happy hour at the Gipper's Lounge in the Holiday Inn, tonight from 4 to 7. 
Today is the last day for the Original Movie Poster Exhibit and Sale in LaFortune Center, featuring hundreds of original movie posters and memorabilia from the silent era to the present. Film clips will be shown today from 9 to 5 at the LaFortune mini-theatre. 
AS PRESENTED ON BROADWAY by the New York Shakespeare Festival JOSEPH PAPP, PRODUCER 
The Pirates of Penzance, the award-winning Broadway show, will beatthe Morris Civic Center on Sunday. 
' 

" 
r-----------------------------­


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will play its 
annual alumni game tomorrow. The game, which pits former team members against the present team, will be played on Cartier Field beginning at I 0 am. -The Observer 
All Saint Mary's students who are interested in 
participating in competitive swimming and diving should come tG ·1 meeting on Tuesday, September 20, at 10 p.m. in the lounge ;,, Regina that overlooks the pool. -The Observer 
The Worr,en's Golf Team will be having a man­
datory 18-hole practice this Sunday. Members should meet at noon at the: starting shack at the Burke Memorial. Members are also reminded not to forget to pick up programs this afternoon. -The Observer 
Friday, Septe~ber 16, 1983 -page 14 
The Notre Dame Open golf tournament con­
cludes this weekend at the Burke Memorial golfcourse. It will mark the culmination ofa week ofcompetition among approximately 60 undergrads. The tournament consists of72 holes ofsl:roke play. The top three finishers will receive medallions on plaques ofthe Golden Dome. -The Obseroer 
A special NCAA committee has recommended the basketball tournament committee consider expanding the tournament field from 53 to 64 teams, an NCAA official said yester­day. NCAA officials stressed the committee actions Tuesday were only recommendations. The recommendations by the special com­mittee on Division I criteria must be approved by the basketball tournament committee, the executive committee, and the NCAA convention. The earliest the tournament field could be expanded from 53 teams would be 1985, said Ted Tow, an assistant NCAA executive director who serves as liason to the special committee. the special committee, which met Tuesday in Chicago, also recom­mended that the number of automatic qualifiers be limited to one­halforless ofthe total number ofteams in the expande-d field. -AP 
•~ The Science Dept •~ • of 

Ihe= 
=--' ·c·­
·abset:Ver__ ·· 
·~ ..
is looking for writers. ~ Anyone interested, call 
·~  Tom Mowle at  •~  
239-5303 or  
283-1421  
...- --­ -•- ·~..- 

The Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classi ried ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per

Classifieds .~even characters, per day. 


FOR SALE: STEREO SYSTEM: NAD FOR SALE 8 MSU 11x' Call Dave al 291-Will trade for 2 GA's or student t1x to MIChi­MULTIMILLIONAIRE FRIEND WILL MIND YOUR MANNERS STEREO RECEIVER. NAD TURN· 2853 a her 5pm or Chip at 284-5263. gan Stale. Offer~ng cash and/or keys to a PAY MULTI-DOLLARS FOR 4-8 TICK­MIND YOUR MANNERS
NOTICES 
TABLE, AR SPEAKERS AND STEREO MIND YOUR MANNERS
'76 P1nlo (JUSI k1dd1ng). Call KEN al8767. ETS TO MSU OR USC. CALL BILL AT CABINET. CALL JIM OR ANN ANY MICHIGAN STATE GA t1ckets needed II!! 
x1783. EVENING BUT PLEASE NOT AFTER 10 Call Andy al 3676. 
I Have 2 MSU GAs and w1lhng to trade t1x TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 P.M. 272-5588. PARTY-PARTY-PARTY Sodom and
and/or $$ for 2 USC GAs 1f interested or I NEED 2 USC TIX. W/TRADE 2 MSU just bored 1n general MIKE 8200! Dr. Mark, Do they leach you how to g1ve Gomorrah 1408 Sou1h Bend Ave. This IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR POP MACHINE FOR SALE $95 255-GA'S FOR 2 USC TIX. CALL284·5532. bourbon shoots 1n med school? live it up. Friday n"e ALL are welcome to come $44 THROUGH THE U.S GOVERN· 9507 NAVY GA'S needed call EO at 1106 birthday boy!! love. Sparky 
ou1 and prepare lor Mlch St. PARTY· MENT? GET THE FACTS TOOAYI CALL PARTY·PARTY
PLEASE HELP' I need 2 GA l1ckets for 
(312) 742·1142. EXT. 7316 FOOTBALL REAL USC. Call James al6984. ................................................................
EQUIPMENT NEED 1 MICH. ST. GA CALL TOM AT 
11 it's MANNERS thar you seok, warch 
NEW FACULTY MEMBER FROMCHEAP·MIKE 1760 4521

THE OBSERVER OFFICE AT SAINT Th<1 Observer next weok. 
PALESTINE NEEDS HELP GETIINGHAVE 2 M.S.U. GA's! NEED Air Fore~MARY'S IS NOW OPEN MONDAY 

ORIENTED TO SOUTH BEND. SHE THROUGH FRIDAY FROM 12:30 TO 3. Anv type of FILM for only $.50. Call t 312 ENDAO GA's! TRADE? CALL DAVE 8238. HELP!I! I NEED 2 STUD OR GA TIX FOR HAS A CAR AND DRIVER'S LICENSE.
THE MSU GAME. PLEASE CALL ·­
THIRD FLOOR HAGGAR CENTER. for rnore 1nformat1on BUT NEEDS HELP LEARNING MAINFOR SALE G.E 14" COLOR T.V.. MAR· NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TICKETS JULIE AT 4434!! 
284-5365. 
STREETS, NEIGHBORHOODS. ETC.

TIN 0·18 GUITAR WITH CASE. ETRRR FOR MICH. ST. KATHLEEN 284·5515 CAN YOU VOLUNTEER YOURSELF
STEREO SPEAKERS. ZENITH NEED TWO (2) t1x. student or GA, for OK. Sports Fans! BINOCULARS. 2 PAIR SNOWSHOES. NEED 1 MSU GA TICKET Call SchmiHy MSU 8906 Here are my picks lor Week 2 or the ONE OR TWO AFTERNOONS IN THE 
NEXT WEEK? CALLLYNN AT 239-5293­

STEREO HEADPHONES. CALL DAVE at 1667or 1773 se~tson. Aga1n, all p1cks are aga1nst the
ILOST/FOUND I 
·CSC

AT 272·0387 NEEDED: 6 MSU GA TICKETS published pomt spread, and not neces· 
TRADE-I need MSU G/A or student (PREFER PAIRS OR BETTER). PAYING sanly the outcome of the game.
LOST-NO r~ng w1th 1nrt1als P A M Dark Dave· A hHie less teeth Ill ·From the many
FOR SALE REFRIGERTOR, EXCEL­W1ll g1ve you Navy t1cket. Call Paul al239-BETIER THAN TOP DOLLAR. CALL 
purple stone set 1n gold. Call Paul al 239-fnends of P1f.
LENT CONDITION 4.3 cub1c h.: largest 5313 or at277-4851 -Call anyt1me, day MIKE ANTONY AT 291-4998 EXT 6328. Georgia over CLEMSON 
5313, or at 277-4851. $40 reward. no 
SIZe allowed at NO ONLY 90.00! Call or mght Iowa over PENN STATE 
questions asked. Frank McCafferty The International Male 
today 277-7392 OKLAHOMA over Ohio State 
I need follr G. A.s for M1ch1gan State. Call HELPIll M1ch1gan over WASHINGTON
Bill at 3434. $$$$ 
MISSING YOUR MANNERS? Watch The INTRAMURAL BEER DRINKING TEAM
Charming Cape Cod close to N.D. atl501 This is my parents first trip outof West Vir· Texas over AUBURN 
Observer! Call and s1gn up NOW. The Brewery 3482 
Easl Mad1son 1n N.E. 2 B R. panneled ginia and they want to see what a real ILLINOIS over Stanford
Need 6 USC GA's and 2 PiHsburgh GA's bsml. lam1ly room or slud10. 2 baths, football game is like. Help me out with a MIAMI over Purdue
and possibly a fa~ry godmother. I've got
lost: Art Trad1t1ons workbook. Gardner's All JACKSON PARTIERS WELCOME
fenced yard. Ideal for proless1onal MICHIGAN STATE GA. Cal/ Scotty at MARYLAND over West Virginia 
plenty of gold. Call Kerry al234-9114. 
Art Through the Ages" Name M1m1 TO THE BREWERYII ARE YOU READY
couple. Pr~ced to sell at $35.500.00 1219. M1ssour1 over WISCONSIN 
Korbuly Please contact the art dept TO PARTY?! 
Forbes/ Vaner 287-7293 Evemngs 291-HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY Arizona Stale over UCLA 0810 Northwestern over SYRACUSE 
2845084
LOST 6 KEYS ON A KNIFE KEYCHAIN 01. Mark, Do they leach you how to g1ve
I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA's. WILL PAY DUKE over South Carol1na 
CALL MIKE AT 8677 bourbon shoots 1n med school? live 11 up,
LEACH RACKETBALL RACK-WELL. CALL RANDY AT 6700. Michigan Slate over NOTRE DAME birthday boy I! love, SparkyNEED ONE. OR TWO TICKETS TO N.D. 
ET.GRAPHITE.BEST MICH. ST. PLEASE CALL GREG 256­lost. Sliver watch last week Walch has OFFFER.277-5153 AFTER 5 PM NEEDED 2·10 tickets lor M1ch St game 
0432 Any pnce acceptable Call Bruce at 6760 TENNEESSEE KEGGER II ALL NO &
engrav1ng on lhe back. If lound call Cohn TOM .O'LEARY STUDY SESSIONS 8604. REWARD. WITH YOU ARE SO REWARDING II
BIG BAR for BIG PARTIES!! Must sell Can deal for Colorado.M1am1, or Army SMC STUDENTS INVITED. ESPECIAL·
HELPI NEED TIX FOR NAVY AND PITT· LETS KEEP IT UP. HAVE A HAPPY
FAST and CHEAP Call6746 for Bar tickets l Y THOSE FROM TENNESSEE. SEE
CALL PEG 1314
LOST---KEY RING WITH 3 KEYS. LOST 20THII LOVE, SHERYL AND JODY P.S. 
....................... Y'All THERE I 
BEHIND STEPAN ON WEDNESDAY, Tim, will I ever reach the differential equa­
Please Trade I offer 2 Michigan State GA In DIRE NEED of 1 ,2,or3 MSU student or
SEPTEMBER 7. IF FOUND, PLEASE tton level? 
sand $50 for 2 USC GAs Call Steph 2172 Booton club Kickoff Tallgater Mem­
GA fiX: Call Scott3271 CALL MIKE AT 1421 AS SOON AS POS· 
TICKETS 
bers, fnends and parents welcome. Come 
SIBLE I R1ch cous1n straight from IRELAND ready 
NEED 4 MSU G.A.'s. WILL PAY BIG one, come all. Plenty of refreshments.
FOR SALE-ONE MSU ST TICKET. 
. to party lor MSU weekend but doesn'tBUCKS! CALL KEVIN at 8636 Beg1ns at 11 a.m.

BEST OFFER.CALL 289-8363 AFTER
LOST: Keys on d1g1tal watch chain. have a t1cketl call John at 8830 to help out 
TICKETS NEEDED FOR USC-MUST ................................······
10
found, call Sheila at 284-5433. los1 1n lhelad.
HAVE---CALL CHRIS AT 234· 7279 Relatives coming to see ftrst N.D. game. I APPLICATIONS FOR JUDICIAL BD AT area of Flanner-Grace mght ol Sat . Sept 
need 3 M.S.U.Iickets. Call John at 3187 STUDENT ACTIVITIES IN HCC OR 174
one student season ticket for best offer
3. OK, Sports Fans I
NEED GA TIXS FOR AU HOME LM
call bruce after 8pm 289-6015 or 272· Here are my picks for Week 2 of theGAMES.PETE 255-91941 Desperately need Penn State game tick­
3619
LOST ONE YELLOW DUCK WITH season. Agatn, all ptcks are agatnst the
ets. Call Br~an al 8795. Be-aton Clubbers come pahly before 
GREEN EYES. IF FOUND PLEASE published point spread. and not neces­
Need 4 GA's for MICH STATE GAME. Mu:h1gan Stale. Tailgater by semor bar
NEED 1 TICKET FOR MICHIGAN Call Kra1g al1608 For Sale· Two MSU GA's 50 yd. hne. NOT STATE. CALL SCOTT AT 1219. Everyone must come. Starttng around 11RETURN TO GLADYS IN MCCANO· sar~ly the outcome of the game. 
LESS HALL. a.m.
CHEAP 284-5064 Georg1a over CLEMSONMSU TIX NEEDED. CALL 1776. 
I NEED 2 MICH. ST. TIX CALL JIM 3597 
LOST ONE YELLOW DUCK WITH Iowa over PENN STATE 
$$$$ NEED 2 GA TIXS FOR MICH Everyone welcome to lhe Boston Club GREEN EYES IF FOUND PLEASE OKLAHOMA over Oh10 State
AVAILABLE 2 MICHIGAN ST GAsl!! STATE. CALL MIKE AT 1475. Tallgater. Bnng parents and fnends to the 
DESPERATELY WANTED!!! 2 or 4
RETURN TO GLADYS IN MCCAND­Mich1gan over WASHINGTON
WILL TRADE FOR 2 NAVY GAs. CALL pahly near Semor Bah. Refreahmen1s
MICHIGAN STATE TIX. many $$$1o be ERIC AT 8891. Need 3 GA's lor MSU game 234· 7033 pa1d. PLEASE call Stacey al x371;2. as usualLESS HALL. Texas over AUBURN 

ILLINOIS over Stanford MIAMI over Purdue
I NEED 2 MICH. ST. TICS. GA OR STUD. ATTENTION Need 2 MSU GA TIX Bnan THE OBSERVER Sa1nt Mary's office IS
FOR SALE: 2 M1ch. St. General AdmiS­MARYLAND over West V1rg1ma
CALL RUSS 1827$$ now Open from 12:30 to 3:00, Monday
SIOn Tickets. Call1402. 
M1ssour1 over WISCONSINthrough Fnday. 3rd flo01, Haggar Center. 

FOR RENT 8315 
Arizona Slate over UCLA

NEED MSU TICKETS. PLEASE CALL MORE DESPERATE THAN ALL THE 2€4-5365.
NEED MSU TIXS CALL 1584 Northwestern over SYRACUSETRACY 4347 REST' NEED 1.2 OR 3 GA'S FOR MSU DUKE over South Carolina FOR RENT COMPLETELY FUR· CALL PAT AT 2180. Go1ng home early for October break? L.A. 
7 TICKETS TO M.S.U. ONLY $1400.00. 
M1ch1gan Stale over NOTRE DAME

MSU TICKET NEEDED. STUDENT OR Gill NEEDS 4 G.A.'S to see NO beat
NISHEO APARTMENT 1 
PLEASE CALL 1779 AND ASK FOR BEDROOM, LIVING GA FOR LITTLE BROTHER. CALLLAR For Sale: Two MSU GA's 50 yd. hne. NOT SHYLOCK USC. W1ll pay MUGHO$ plus l'lllake you 
ROOM.BATHROOM.KITCHEN 2 BIG 
RY 234-9114. CHEAP. 284-5064 10 DINNER! call M1chello 284·4138 
TENNEESSEE KEGGER I! All NO & CLOSETS CALL JOE LACOPO 731 TICKETS WANTED FOR Southem CAL, 
SMC STUDENTS INVITED. ESPECIAL­DIAMOND AVE. 233-2203 I NEED 2 MICH. STATE STUDENT TICK­$$$$ NEED 2 GA TIXS FOR MICH Kathy and Ahce: As we prom1sed, here

TOP dollar pa1d call: 287-6277 HOWIE LY THOSE FROM TENNESSEE. SEE
ETS. CALL PAUL8301 or 3697 STATE. CALL MIKE AT 1475. ar13 a few words ot wtsdom from your 
Y'ALL THERE I Need 10 G.A.'s to the U.S.C. game. W111
NEEDED ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE genetous guardtans 1n Grace. Have a wtld WITH EXCELLENT STEREO TO SHARE NEED 2 STU. OR 2 GA TIX FOR MSU Need 3 GA's for MSU game 234-7033 tirne dunng your first NO football game.
pay any amount tort1ckels. They need not 
NEW FACULTY MEMBER FROM TOWNHOUSE CALL272-5139 be together. Please call Dan at 1779.
GAME CALL JOHN 8301 bul alway remember YOUR BIG 
PALESTINE NEEDS HELP GETIINGATIENTION Need 2 MSU GA TIX Bnan Bf10THERS . ARE WATCHING YOU! 

ORIENTED TO SOUTH BEND. SHE

Need MSU stu & GA's. Call1695 8315 P.S. You can bnng the wtne fordmner
MORE DESPERATE THAN All THE 
HAS A CAR AND DRIVER'S LICENSE. RESTI NEED 1,2 OR 3 GA'S FOR MSU. 
BUT NEEDS HELP LEARNING MAIN

I need 1 student llcket for MSU. Please Need 3 stud, 1 GA MSU l1x. Please call VERA. HERE IS THE PERSONAL THAT 
WANTED 
CALL PAT AT 2180. 

STREETS, NEIGHBORHOODS. ETC.
call Ann al1342. late n1ght IS best Joe8257 I ALWAYS PROMISED YOU. NITAKUN· 
CAN YOU VOLUNTEER YOURSE~FGOOEA MILELE 

I NEED 1 GAFOR M.S.U. WILL PAY TOP ONE OR TWO AFTERNOONS IN THEWanted: 2 dependable females to A horribly burnt child needs 2 GA's and 1 NEED USC TIX WILL TRADE 2 MSU GA DOLLAR I CALL MIKE 1770. 
NEXT WEEK? CALLLYNN AT 239·5293­share ltvrng expenses •n a mce. turn1shed studenlllckello lhe M.S.U. game. Please OR PAY BIG$ CALL ROB 1193 Welcome to NO Bernad1ne. lhe Wildest ·CSChouse $150 00 per month (InCludes rent call 289-5379 1f you want to make a hor­Croa11an mother 1n Arkansas-· I hope you

Need MSU or USC Tix call Chas. 1588 
and u11hl1~s). Non-smokers please. Call ribly deformed Child very happy. Ask for Need 1, 2 or 3 GA tlx for Mich. St. game huve a most enjoyable parent's Dave-A little less teeth!!!-Frorn the many239-5930 belore 5 00 or 291-9644 aher Slick and all home games. Please call Helen, weekend!lllove, Your Baby-K1m
Young miss visiting from Weet VIrginia 
fr~ends of Pil. 

5:00p.m. SMC5501. 
Juet got her flrs1 pair of s-s. Now all
NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA's OR 1 Mom. Dad, Came, Katie, and Greg·
she Meds to make her life complete Is
I 
Frank McCafferty: The lnlernat1onal Male RIDE NEEDED TO MIAMI (OHIO) FRI GA AND 1 STUDENT TICKET. CALL NEED 2 USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6981 Welcome to Notre Oamell I'm glad to
a ticket (etudent) to the MICHIGAN
9/23 SEAN 277·1405 KATHY AT 2966. have you all here-you're guaranteed a
STATE game. Call Kirk at 8785. INTRAMURAL BEER DRINKING TEAM
I 
HELP! NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR good t1me (especially you Camel) And we Call and s1gn up NOW. The Brewery 3482 
I NEED 2 GA'S OR STU TIX FOR MSU I! I HAVE 4 MSU AND 2 PITT TICKETS, GA PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309 may even w1n lhe gamelllove. Megan CALL JOHN AT 3217 BUT I NEED USC INSTEAD. LETS 
All JACKSON PARTIERS WELCOME

TALK. CALL JERRY AT x17fS3 AFTER NEED MANY MSU GA'S. $$$$$$ CALL GORGEOUS (Mark Bassett): Welcome 
TO THE BREWERYII ARE YOU READYAgressrve man who lrkes to meet people e. 1154 back lo NO! I've rniSsed you. Thank you TOPARTY?I

i PERSONALS
to make apporntments tor owner to sell tor our three spectal. wonderful years.
' 
home 1mprovemen1s EARN UP TO Need 4 MSU GAs; Pal 1238 Desperately need 2 MSU GA's. Call M1ke Looktng forward to rna ny more I love PER ATRANSPORTA­you. -Mary Proper MANNERS are a s1gn of good
300.00 WK. x8708/8709 
NEED$$$? 
breedtng. 

' TION FURNISHED Call MR. Calloway HELP!II NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY 
Uke a challenge? 
' 7to 9 pm 2899056 $S$. CALL BRENDAN 7791 NEED USC TIX. PLEASE CALL8584. B1ll 'BUBBLES' Bas1edo. although I no
Turn your spare t1me 1nto money. Groups 
I ' ' or mdiv1duals needed lo promote college longer hve at Notre Dame. my feelings for TOM O'LEARY STUDY SESSIONS WANTED 26" 3-speed bike. mens or WANTED NO-USC t1x. Call 716-377· WARNING! Selling your two extra Michl· you sttll are the same and I remember WITH VOU ARE SO REWARDING !!
vacat1on tours. For more tnformation call:
, womens, call272·8229 dher 5 7075 even1ngs 6·1 0 p.m. gan Stale llckets WILL be a MONEY your tnfamous luvtub Wtthout shame LETS KEEP IT UP. HAVE A HAPPY 
, ' (414) 781·0455 
20TH!' LOVE. SHERYL AND JODY P.S.

MAKING EXPERIENCE!! CALL PAT 
orwnte 
NEED 2 MICH STATE GA OR 8762 for dela1ls NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH. ST. PLEAS~ Ttm. wtlll ever reach Ute dtfferenttal equa­
, 
Designers on Travel, 
STUDENT· BIG MONEY -CALL JILL CALL 272-5851. tiOn level?
4025 n. 1241h St.
, FOR SALE 6293 TWO MICHIGAN STATE G.A.'s ................................................................
Brookl1eld. W1sc. 53005 
RiCh COUSin s1ra1ghl from IRELAND ready NEED 2 MICH STATE GA OR MAKING THEIR FIRST TRIP TO NOTRE E:NGINEERING TO NOTRE DAME. to party lor MSU weekend bul doesn I Portable TV B/W, good conditiOn $30 STUDENT· BIG MONEY -CALL JILL DAME. CALL 3211 3209 FOR HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND!!! have a 11ckel' call John at 8830 lo help out 
NEEDED FOR MY PARENTS WHO ARE THE DOME WELCOMES C ' J 
OR
,' 
I need 1 studentlicketfor M1ch. State Call
277-2543 1he lad.
6293 $$$$$$$$$.
,' 
Mike x6770. Thank-you. 
I 
l I 




The Observer Friday, September 16, 1983-page 15 

NV A Tennis Pairings 
All matches must be played and reported to the NVA off1ce by Wednesday, September 2t. 
Men's Open Tennis Cogan (8057) v. Logan (1877) Runger (1432) v. M. McCabe Pu1als (8653) v. Ralph (1903) Bulan (8394) v. Boulet (8433) Arellano (1461) v. Miller (1107) Cooke (3316) v. Collins (8919) Calloway (1527) v. Muyres (1775) Powers (1600) v. Welsey (6981) Bery (1177) v. Marchaunz (1652) Po1ner (1471) v. C1erzn1ak (1689) lmmonen (3091) v. Goldner (6937) Mischke (4521) v. Curis (7743) Gee (1022) v. Chou (3258) O'Brien (1692) v. Anton1ni (1633) Welmhol1(8921) v. Soergel (1575) S1mone (3122) v. Gnff1n (1178) James (1530) v. Deeter (1983) Walker (1723) v. Donahue (1424) Re1dy (9070) v. Harman (1082) Duncan (1103) v. Kelleher (8943) Wall (1195) v. Reyes (1372) ls1waka (8944) v. Foley (1725) Hayes (1195) v. Kn1pe (8917) Richardson (277-1405) v. We1gel (3171) Sharp (3344) v. Hanna (3106) Rench (1073) v. Tuel (1478) 
Shafer (1219) v. Grunewald (6802) Defrances (1139) v. Goulet (7563) Grojean (1248) v. Hardiman (1223) 
Players whose names do not appear have received a bye. 

Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE EAST 
w L T Pet.  PF  PA  
Dallas 2 0 01.000  65  47  
N.Y. Giants 1 0 .500  22  29  
Philadelphia 1 1 0 .500  35  40  
Washington 1 1 0 .500  53  44  
St. Louis 0 2 0 .000  34  62  
CENTRAL  
Chicago 1 1 0 .500  34  30  
Detroit 0 .500  37  31  
Green Bay 0 .500  62  63  
Minnesota 1 1 0 .500  44  69  
Tampa Bay 0 2 0 .000  10  28  
WEST  
L.A. Rams 2 0 01.000  46  33  
Atlanta 1 1 0 .500  33  33  
New Orleans 0 .500  55  47  
San Franc1sco 0 .500  65  39  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE  
EAST  
w L T Pet.  PF  PA  
Miam1 2 0 01.000  46  24  
Baltimore 1 0 .500  39  40  
Buffalo 1 0 .500  10  18  
N.Y. Jets 1 1 0 500  51  46  
New England 0 2 0 .000  47  63  
CENTRAL  
Cleveland 2 1 0 .667  69  60  
Pittsburgh 1 1 0 .500  35  35  
Houston 0 2 0 .000  44  61  
Cinc1nnat1 0 3 0 .000  23  47  
WEST  
Denver 2 0 01.000  31  20  
LA. Ra1ders 2 0 01.000  40  16  
Kansas C1ty 1 0 500  31  30  
San Diego 0 .500  46  55  
Seattle 0 .500  30  27  
Yesterday's Results  
Cleveland 17. Cincinnati 7  
Sunday's Games  
Ch1cago at New Orleans  
LA Rams vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee  
Pittsburgh at Houston  
San Franc1sco at St. LoUis  
N.Y Jets at New England  
Kansas Crty at Washington  
Atlanta at Detro1t  
Baltimore at Buffalo  
Philadelphia at Denver  
San D1ego at Seattle  
N.Y. G1ants at Dallas  
M1nnesota at Tampa Bay  
Monday's Games  
M1am1 at L.A. Raiders  



~"Doc. 
Restaurant 
Best inAged Stea 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M Dinn{'r 5:00 P:M ··~I '"•d Sunda ·l!· i-lnitda : 

Interested in 
Open 
Chica·.!:, ~ ' 0; 'fribune 
i)f' 
.. Sr. ll: T.;es.-Sat. 
OSJ<~Tuday
"?prr1, Sunday 
Dorm Delivery? Call Bill at 283-3314 
~,:·.-~~·-.>.­
MIXED DOUBLES 
Reid-Gonzales (277-7651) v. Gee-Jones (1022) Marten-Morrow (6840) v. bye Moore-O'Bryan (7870) v. bye Reyes-Schwebel (1372) v. bye Gotuaco-Villalon (3329) v. Niii-Fay (1268) Reusch-Carol (1073) v. Callis-O'Grady (1288) Chfford-Locke(8171) v. Kelly-Toal (1073) Sternitcke-Dolan (7891) v. Gardmer-Sioane (8646) Huebi-Campbell (3238) v. Russell-Russell (2895) Rade-McEiroy (1504) v. Jacoby-Pica (2968) lmmonen-lmmonen (3091) v. Cooke-Schmell (3316) Thompson-Rodgers (6965) v. Grojean-Molinsky (1248) Goulet-Duvet (277-7563) v. Paraiso-Dougherty (1271) Klisart-Lynch (1898) v. Stavetsk1-Stephen (8895) Wall-Hagaman (1195) v. Bailey-Considine (3842) Reardan-Boyle (8686) v. McGinn-Tomkowitz (8173) Curt1s-Da~on (7443) v. Taneff-Kohlhass (1129) Sobczak-Delapena (1639) v. Benner-Zalud (1474) Szatkowsk1-Szat (6852) v. Swiecish (277-4181) 
Olive-Bailey ( 1596) v. Coin,Schaffer (6803) . Cleveland-Gailus (4514) v. Farley-Cameron (8191) Kelly-Hofbauer (1605) v. Callaway-Ritchie (1527) Ganshirt-Cortes (1785) v. O'Brien-Aime1da (1692) Lavoie-Kelly (8622) v. Chandoer-Berestka (7850) Bond-Dimello (1027) v. Meager-Greene (234-9914) Krenzer-Eversoll (8016) v. Deeter-Lechner (1983) Randaii-Rosenstre (3417) v. Kaelin-Rowbury (1416) Defeo-Deren (234-6498) v. Sacre-Bery (1177) Runger-Schmid (1432) v. bye Bosco-Upda v. bye Walters-Collins (3334) v. bye Poirier-Ukraine (1471) v. bye 
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore  88  56  .611  
Detrort  84  62  .575  5  
New York  82  63  .568  6.5  
Toronto  81  67  .547  9  
Milwaukee  79  67  .641  10  
Boston  70  77  .476  19.5  
Cleveland  64  82  .438  25  
West  
Chicago  86  60  .589  
KansasCrty  69  75  .479  16  
.469 17.5 .459 19 .441 21.5 .429 23.5 .379 30.5 


Texas  69  78  
Oakland  68  80  
California  64  81  
Minnesota  63  84  
Seattle  55  90  

Yesterday's Results Texas 6, Oakland 5 Boston 7, Baltimore 1 Ch1cago 12, Seattle 0, 6-Vo2 Innings, rain Minnesota 6, Toronto 2 
Today's Games Detroit at Boston Milwaukee at Baltimore New York at Cleveland Seattle at Chicago Toronto at Minnesota 
Oakland at Kansas City Texas at Cahforn1a 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East 
w L Philadelphia 76 70 Pittsburgh 76 70 Montreal 75 70 St. Louis 73 72 Chicago 64 s2 New York 61 85 
West Los Angeles 85 61 Atlanta 80 65 Houston 76 69 San Diego 73 73 San Francisco 68 78 C1ncinnati 67 79 
Yesterday's Results Los Angeles 6, Houston 0 Montreal 4, Ph1ladalph1a 1 Pittsburgh 8, Ch1cago 4 New York 6, St. Louis 4 
Todsy's Games Montreal at PiHsbu,gh Houston at Cinc1nnat1 San D1ego at Atlanta St. louis at Philadelphia Chicago at New York Los Angeles at San Franc1sco Pet. GB .521 .521 .517 .5 .503 2.5 .438 12 .418 15 
.582 .552 4.5 .524 8.5 
500 12 .466 17 .459 18 
~ 
Mancini successfully defends boxing title 
NEW YORK (AP) -Ray "Boom 
Boom" Mancini, bleeding from a cut 
over his left eye, knocked out Or­
lando Romero with a single smash­
ing left hook to the jaw in the ninth 
round and retained the World 
Boxing Association's lightweight 
championship last night at Madison 
Square Garden. 
The left-handed Romero had 'opened a cut under Mancini's right 
eye in the seventh round and cut the 
champion over the left in the eighth. 
The challenger from Peru was giving 
as well as he got. 
Suddenly it was over. 
Mancini landed a good double left 
hook to the jaw that shook Romero 
early in the ninth round. Then, after 
m1ssmg a wild right, Mancini 
whipped a left hook to the jaw that 
dropped Romero on his back. It was 
obvious to ringsiders that Romero 
was not going to beat referee Tony 
Perez' 10·count, and he didn't. 
The time of the knockout was 
1:56. 
It was the 22-year·old Mancini's first title defense since Duk Koo Kim was knocked out in the 14th round and fatally injured last Nov. 13 at Las Vegas, Nev. Mancinci had fought a 10-round non-title fight last Feb. 6, outpointing George Feeney, and the ring rustiness was apparent in the champion's performance last night before a crowd of 10,900. 
Mancini, who weighed the class 
limit 135, opened well although he 
established no clear domination 
through the first four rounds. Then 
Romero began coming on and it 
looked like Mancini's Garden debut 
might turn out to be more than he 
bargained for. 
Judge Wiso Fernandez of Puerto Rico had it 77-76 for Romero after nine rounds. Judge Yusaku Yoshida ofJapan had it 79-77 for Mancini and Judge Ecasio Drake ofPanama had it 77·77. 
At ringside was Mancini's father, Lenny, who was a lightweight con­tender in the early 1940's. It was the elder Mancini's first Garden visit since he lost an eight-round decision to Rocky Ca.ste!Iani as an aging mid­dleweight Sept. 19, 1947. 
"It will be an emotional night for him," the champion said ofhis father before the fight. He also made it a dramatic one. 
The victory set up a defense by Mancini against Bobby Chacon, the former World Boxing Council super featherweight and featherweight champion, in November or Decem­ber. Dave Wolf, Mancini's manager, said an agreement had been reached 
UNNYSID 


BEVERAGES 
Beer and Soft Drinks 
"Why buy retail when you can buy wholesale" 
1340 Sou:~h Bend .Ave. across street from campus FREE POSTERS 
234-1114 
20 DIFFERENT BRANDS OF KEG BEER AVAILABLE INCLUDING IMPORTS OPEN TILL 12:00 Saturd_ay 
on the fight and a contract will be signed if Mancini won. 
In the first four rounds the fighters concentrated on hand feints and up­per body movement, but Mancini got in some good body punches and ripped a cut under Romero's left eye in the third round. 
In the fifth round, the challenger, who weighed 134 1-2, scored with a couple ofgood lefts to the head and several right jabs. 
After the sixth round, Mancini's trainer, Murphy Griffith, told the champion, ''You're· not doing any­thing." 
Romero had a good round in the seventh when he landed a couple of straight lefts and a pair of right-lefts to the head in the first half of the round. He also cut Mancini under the right eye and in the next round cut the champion over the left eye as he scored with several good lefts to the head. 
Then came the sudden ending in the ninth and Romero, who might have been envisioning leaving the ring as a champion, left it as a loser for the first time in his career. The 23-year-old, who had never before fought outside his native land, is now 30-1-1 with 12 knockouts. 
Mancini, making the third defense of the title he won on a one·round knockout over Art Frias on May 8, 1982, in Las Vegas, now is 27-I with 21 knockouts. 

r The Observer 
Blocking the plate 
G"R Gro.. of the Philiea collide• with Montreal rotcher Gary Carter. The Phillie• UIOn t&C>O of the three ~tamea the team• pla_ved thia -ek, allowing them to lteep o ahore of the kad in the NL IJ'eadt Ulith Pittabur'f(h. Montreal troila b01h t..oma by o half-~tamr. Ulhile St. Louia haa fallen IIIIO•and-a-half offthP parP. (AP Photo) 
-

Friday, September 16, 1983-page 16 
If you are an.;.,a~v~id~f~a~n-GII
of THE FAR SI~E cartoons, you'll have to have Gary Larson's newest collection ... 
And if youmissed his first.·· best seller, you'd better . , be sure you have . :. 
Order now if you love humor that starts from and remains firmly footed in left field! 


r-------------
Piease send me, __ copies of The Far Side at $3.95 eacn. __copies of BeyondThe Far Side at $3.95 each. Total amount enclosed 
rtnclude $1 for postage and handling per book ordered.J 
Mall to: Far Side Boo!(·l C/O the ObSBJ'Ie) 4400 Johnson Orivt: Fairway, Kan. 66205 Make checks payable to Universal Press Syndicate. 
0 Checll 0 Money Order D VISA 
0 MaJt..-Cord 
....... ______ 
Oty ______ 
SNtt lip ___ 
Credit cord • 
MasterCard lnrtrbortlt I hpir. Octe 



WENEEDAFEW GOOD PEOPLE 
JOB$ JOB$ JOB$ 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES HAS 

I. 


OPENINGS IN: 
"South Dining Hall" "North Dining Hall" "The Huddle" "Catering Services" 
Grill Cooks-Drivers-Busers-Waitresses-Waiters Dishwashers-Cleaners 
Check in with Ms. Sharon Veith, Financial Aid Department Administration Building (Phone: 239-6436) 
-Lettuce Serve You ­
-· ---------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, September 16, 1983 -page 17 
Pirates tie Phils in NL East 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Terry Francona hit a home run, two singles, and drove in two runs as the Montreal Expos beat the Philadel­phia Phillies 4-1 last night to salvage the final game ofa three-game series. 
Bill Gullickson, 15-11, struck out six and walked none and gave up six hits before yielding to Bob James with the bases loaded in the eighth. James struck out Len Matuszek and finished up with three strikeouts against the four batters he faced to earn his fourth save. Kevin Gross, 4­6, took the loss. 
Gullickson, 8-1 since the All-Star 
break, has won four straight deci­
sions. 
Montreal moved within one-half 
game of Philadelphia in the National 
League East. The Phillies began the 
night in first place, a game in front of 
Pittsburgh. · 
Red Sox 7, Orioles 1 
BOSTON (AP) -Wade Boggs, the major-league batting leader, featured a 15-hit attack with a doub!C" and two singles last night as the Boston Red Sox defeated division-leading Baltimore, 7-1, snapping the Orioles' six-game win­ning streak. 
The loss trimmed Baltimore's American League East lead over Detroit to five games, but the Orioles still have a seven-game ad­vantage in the loss column. The Tigers were idle last night. 
Southpaw Bruce Hllrst, 12-10, became Boston's winningest pitcher with relief help from Bob Stanley as the Red Sox handed the Orioles only their second loss in the last 10 starts, and fourth in the last ""'3. 
Hurst allowed seven hits, includ­
ing Cal Ripken, Jr.'s 24th homer, in 
seven innings before Stanley 
finished up. 
With three hits in five times at bat, Boggs raised his average to .361 in his 6lst multiple-hit game of the season. He has had three or more hits 22 times. 
Pirates 8, Cubs 4 
PIITSBURGH (AP) Dave Parker had three hits while Richie Hebner drilled a pinch-hit grand­slam home run to back Larry McWil­liams' route-going performance as the Pittsburgh Pirates moved into a tie for the National League East lead with an 8-4 victory over the Chicago Cubs yesterday. 
The victory, the Pirates' fourth in a row, gained them a share of the lead with Philadelphia, which lost to 1-wntreal 4-1. The Expos are a half­game back. 
McWilliams, 14-6, struck out nine and walked one and didn't allow the Cubs a hit after Ron Cey's solo homer with one out in the sixth. 
The Pirates took a 2-0 lead off Chuck Rainey, 14-11, in the first when Marvell Wynne walked, Johnny Ray lined an RBI double and Jason Thompson hit a ~acrifice fly. 
The Pirates made it 3-0 in the third when Parker led off with a single and came around to score when first baseman Carmelo Mar­tinez was charged with an error on an attempted pickoff play. 
Dodgers 6, Astros 0 
HOUSTON (AP) -Los Angeles pitcher Alejandro Pena scattered five hits and the Dodgers took ad­vantage of a wild performance by Houston pitcher Nolan Ryan en route to a 6-0 victory last night. 
Pena, 12-6, completed his fourth game of the year as the the Dodgers extended their National League West lead to four-and-a-half games over Atlanta and eight-and-a-half games over the Astros. He leads the National League in earned run average at 2.18. 
Ryan, 13·8, walked six batters, allowed one run to score on a wild pitch, and hit two batters in the Dodgers' three-run fifth inning. Ryan departed after 4 1·3 innings for reliever Mike LaCoss. 
Mike Marshall singled, stole second, went to third on Pedro Guerrero's infield hit off Ryan's glove, and scored the first Dodger run on Ryan's wild pitch. 
Twins 6, Blue Jays 2 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Ken Schrom beat his former teammates for the third time this season and Dave Engle and Mickey Hatcher both homered to boost the Min· nesota Twins to a 6·2 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays last night. 
Schrom, 13· 7, who was released by Toronto last year, pitched his third complete game to beat Dave Stieb, 15·12, for the third con· secutlve time. Schrom gave up six hits, walked five and struck out three. 
With the score tied 2·2, Engle 
drove in what proved to be the win· 
ning run with a two-out solo homer 
in the fourth, his eig t hth ofthe year. 
The Twins added two more runs in the sixth when Hatcher extended his hitting streak to 10 games with a double to center and scored on Engle's single. Engle moved to second on a sacrifice and scored on HoustonJiminez's single. 
Mets 6, Cards 4 
NEW YORK (AP) -George Fos· ter hit a two-run homer in the seventh inning to snap a tie and give the New York Mets a 6-4 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals last night. 
Foster's 25th homer of the season 
made a winner of right-hander Ed 
Lynch, 10·9, who yielded homers to 
Lonnie Smith and Darrell Porter 
before leaving in the eighth inning in 
favor of Jesse Orosco, who earned 
his 17th save. 
With one out in the seventh, Keith Hernandez singled and Foster hit a 1·0 pitch from left-handed reliever Dave LaPoint, 12·9, deep into the left-field bullpen. 
Rangers 6, A's 5 
OAKLAND, Calif (AP)-George Wright clubbed his 18th homer and capped a four-run seventh inning with a two-run double yesterday to pace the Texas Rangers to a 6-5 vic· tory over the Oakland A's. 
Wright homered in the first and Bucky Dent hit his first home run of the season in the second to give Texas a 2·0 lead. 
But the A's tied it in the-fourth. Dwayne Murphy walked and went to second on Davey Lopes' single. Murphy took third on Mike Davis' grounder that forced Lopes at second and Donnie Hill scored Murphy with a sacrifice fly. Garry Hancock followed with a bloop single to shallow left, and Davis scored from first as left fielder Billy Sample tossed the ball lazily to second. 
Lopes' two-run single gave the A's a 4-2 lead in the fifth. 
After the Rangers' four-run· seventh, sparked by Wright's hit, the A's scored a run in the bottom ofthe frame to close out the scoring. 
Dave Schmidt, 3·3, picked up the victory in reliefwhile A's starter Tim Conroy, 6-9, took the loss. Dave Tobik picked up his eighth save. 
The Oar House Cold Beer& Liquor Carry Out Till3 am 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
Live DJ and Dancing 
10-3 AM 
"TWO BARS" 
Address -------­City------State ~ Zip 
Send check or money order to SCRUBS 
P.O. Box 595, Bethel Park, PA 15102 
Shirt,  S,  M,  L, $ 9.95  
Pants,  S,  M,  L, $11.95  
Set,  S,  M,  L. $19.95  

Circle size and write in the number of SCRUBS (Plus $1.50 for Postage and Handling) 

JJ•===:"Papa& Mama Do The Cooking,..___ll\. 
Francesco's F~miglia 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
Tit! Origi•al Soutltem Recipe 
Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti, 1636 N. Ironwood Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana "WE DELIVER" All Varieties of Sandwiches 


Corby's 

BEATuSTATEn WEEKEND 
Fri: "Happy Hour" 3-7 PM 
Mix Drinks 2 for 1 
12oz draft-.50 

Hog Roast (in parking lot) 
lOPM-3AM 
Sat: OPEN 9 AM 

"BloodyMary Party" 
HOG ROAST llam -Closing! 
1:30 NO vs. Michigan State 
4:30 "Old Style" Victory Celebration 
Go Irish!!! Beat State! 

The Observer Friday, September 16, 1983 -page 18 

Liberty takes strong 2-0 lead 

too straight. favor, Conner had stretched the lead 
Nevertheless, the challengers still to 48 seconds. seemed in command in the second Australia II had been forced to sail race, leading by 21 seconds going in­at a more perpendiular angle as its to the second upwind leg -sup­bending mast seemed to be standing posedly their strength with the too straight to expose enough sail winds down to the 10-knot range. for maximum speed. 
But ifAustralia II was in control of Liberty held a seemingly safe 31· the race, it wasn't in control of the second lead going to the last leg, 4. 5 tricky wind. miles upwind, but the Aussies 
The wily Conner, who defended weren't through. the Cup aboard Freedom against The wind was changing almost Australia in 1980, switched to a big­constantly, and Bertrand caught one ger foresail and sailed to the right of the shifts himself to pull almost side of the course, closer to land. even. The two bats tacked and 
The tactic worked as Liberty tacked, zig-zagging for position, and 
picked up an off-shore breeze from the Aussies appeared to have the 
the mouth ofthe Sakonnet River and weather edge. 
passed the Aussies. Then the wind changed again, a 
"They tacked in our water on the sudden shift to the ea~t that pushed second work (windward leg)," said Liberty to more than a 300-yard Australian syndicate head Alan lead, and Bertrand wa~ unable to Bond. find one last gust that might have 
By the time the boats turned for pushed the Aussies hack into the the fifth leg, downwind to. Liberty's race. 

Sipe leads Browns over hapless Bengals 
NEWPORT, R.I. (AP) -Liberty 
skipper Dennis Conner caught 
Australia II on one wind shift and 
blew it away on another to catapult 
into a commanding 2-0 lead yester­
day in the 25th defense of the 
America's Cup. 
Australia II, however, protested 
the race, contending that Conner 
impeded the challenger's progress 
by illegally crossing its path on the 
fourth leg of the six-leg course. 
The Americans now have turned 
back Aussie helmsman John 
Bertrand's innovative 12-meter, one 
of the most formidable challengers 
in Cup history, in different condi­
tions on consecutive days. 
And for the second day in a row, a 
close race turned into a rout on the 
final leg as the Australians, who lost 
just six of 54 'races in summer trials, 
ran into trouble. 
Liberty won yesterday by 
diminishing but shifting winds that 
were supposed to be ideal for the 
Australians' revolutionary winged 
keel. It won Wednesday by 1 
minute, I 0 seconds in choppy seas 
and gusty winds. 
Liberty, which crossed the finish line in 3:48:06, now needs just two more victories in the best-of-seven series to keep yachting's most prized trophy in the United States, where ·it's been since it was first won 132 
years ago. 
The third race was postponed un­
til Saturday on Rhode Island Sound, 
after the Australians requested a day 
to regroup. 
Yesterday, the Aussies had to send 
a man aloft for more than 10 minutes 
for a mid-race mast correcion, and 
they were slowed at one tum when 
their adjustable mast appeared to be 
CLEVELAND (AP) -Brian Sipe, passing for 201 yards, threw his eighth touchdown pass of the year and Mike Pruitt hulled over from one yard out for another score as the Cleveland Browns defeated the win­less Cincinnati Bengals 17-7 last night. 
Sipe completed 21 of 31 passes and hit on his first nine attempts in the National Football League game, including a 19-yard touchdown pass to Ozzie Newsome that put Cleveland ahead 7-0 in the first quar­ter. 
A pair of Cincinnati mistakes led  
to two of the Browns' scores as Cleveland opened divisional play. Chip Banks intercepted a pass by  I..  
Ken Anderson at midfield to start the  
first  Cleveland  touchdown  drive,  
and Cincinnati defensive back Ken  
Riley interfered with receiver Dave  
Logan on a third-quarter pass to put  
the Browns inside the Cincinnati 5.  
Anderson, playing despite a neck  
injury aggravated  in  last Sunday's  
loss to Buffalo, started slow, but then  

heated up to direct the Bengals' only 
scoring drive early in the second 
quarter. 

Anderson hit six-of-six passes for 
42 yards on a 71-yard drive 
climaxed by rookie Larry Kin­
nebrew's touchdown. The one-yard 
run came on his first career carry. 

Anderson again had the Bengals on the move late in the fourth quar­ter, marching them from their own 20-yard line to the Cleveland nine before throwing an interception to Clarence Scott in the end zone with 
I :33 left in the game. 

Anderson finished with 26 completions in 40 attempts for 207 yards with two interceptions. Sipe also wa~ intercepted twice. 
The Browns improved to 2-1, while Cincinnati, the defending champion in the American Football Conference Central Division, fell to 0-3. 
• I! • 

Run 
rontin11Pdfrom Pllf!" 20 

(approximately five miles) at Ohio State. According to Collins, there is a definite strategy for today's race. 
"The top six or seven runners will 
stay with the Ohio State leaders until 
the two-mile mark -at that point 
our entire pack will attempt to pull 
away and finish as a group." 

In any case, this Ohio State race is 
viewed as a preparation for next 
Saturday's home meet with a tough­
er challenge, Northwestern. 

What the results of today's meet 
will indicate is the potential of this 
year's team and this year's freshmen, 
while giving some indication ofwho 
will round out the top five behind 
Cannon, Dillon, and Caron. At this 
point, Juha and Collins hope to 
secure the fourth and fifth positions, 
hut Willenhrink, Tyler, Adams, and 
Maxfield should provide them with 
a fight to the finish. 

No matter who fills the top five 
positions, however, this year's squad 
could be Piane's best ever. Mayhe 
then, a few twins might give away the 
hest kept secret in South Bend. 

Ubl'rt.r and A.u.tralia II rompl'll' in llw A.m..riro'• Cup final& Liberty hol.U a 2-0 /,ad in the beot of•evl'n lf'rW& (A.P Photo) 
We Want You! 
-----Co•nseHne 
-
The Counseling and Psychological Services Center here at Notre Dame is looking for vol­
unteers to work on our Counseline. a free confidential telephone service offering profes­sionally taped materials covering a variety m student concerns. issues. and everyday prob­lems_ 
If you are interested in volunteering for Counseline, please call our Center at: 239-7336 
McCarthy's EST.l983 Mon: Monday Night Football ­Pitchers $2 during game Tues: Vino Nite ­N.D. Dome Wine. 75 a glass NO Ave. Wed: Talent and Ladies Nite Happy Hour prices to ladies Thurs: Cheers Nite ­Hill St. . 25 draftB-10 PM *McCarthy'sFri: Pre-Game Nite ­wake up the echoes with us! Sat: Sat. Morning Confusion ­Irish Omelets 12.50; draft 7AM .10 up a dime every hour till noon 4IO N.llt/I.W'on-Tburs I 1:00-1:00 Fri I I :00-2:00 Sat 7:00 A.\1 . 2:00 A.\1 Uncle Vinnie says: "Git'e us this d{~V our dai~y Beer" Full line ofPuh G'ruh sert•ed daily  

What Does the Student Union Record Store Have in Stor~ for Me 
CHEAPER PRICES ... s.,.,14-11 •J'!IiSI pnm! MOST CURRENTSINGLES-J:6.Jorcompureu, 
$8.99/ISI} 
CUT-OUTS...sz.9s.sJ.9B 
GREATSELECTION... Sprin..teen. Fo,elber,. steve~e Nidc.s, Christopher Cross, Moody 8/ue.s, Pat Benatur, Journey and many, many morr ... A LSQ... remrdedand blank lopes UVI.JJiable. CONVENIENCE.,, TheNDSU RecurdStor<is i<I<'Uted 
on Ihe Mum Floor nfLaForume. Plus-ordered ulhmm 1uke only one ....·eek 10 umve! 

---------~~----~-~~--­


~4(Jt~C3l~-------------------------------------Fr_i_da_y_,_se_p_te_m_b_e_r_1_6_,_19_8_3___ 19
p_a_g_e__ 

Bloom County 

r---------,
WOJW YOU UK61V
STf'l£ PALLAS 7 HW-0! B€T5Y 
5P£NI7 N£XT W€£K­
HOOF~£, R£/tii;;.Ml3£R 1 I 'JfWi YOO 
&W wrrn M6 VNGH I
1\CRw.llH~ ROOM ANL7.. 1'/tu.., I'Vt. 
IN CP\1-(.UN ?
fK£N GWlNG Uf'1H~ "'ffii~ FOR 
I I
1HI~ m NI0HT... HE-R~ GOC5 : 


SOflf. SORT OF I'£1RI7 R£.Je:c110N, 
ISN'T IT.2 
ACROSS 1 Faction 5 Italian 
food 10 Of certain poems 14 Bituminous, 
for one 15 Of the eye 16 Toe the­17 Indigo 18 Destroy 19 Glacial 
ridges 20 Chess master 21 Feline 
sound 22 Ruleout 24 Long (for) 26 Simple sea 
animal 
OH W Wll. 1HM'S 
NYUOO! 
NYUGH! 
27 Portrayer of Serpico 
29 Seeds 
30 Dance step 
33-plenty (cornu­copia) 34 Soccer great 35 Graceful tree 
36 indonesian island group 
37 Lessen 
39 Ridge 
40 Privileges: abbr. 41 Printing term 
42 Scopes trial lawyer 
N.D. vs. MiamiU 
N.D. Club of Ft. Lauderdale is spons6ring: $39 doubles at Sheraton Yankee Trader Hotel on the beach 
in Ft. Lauderdale. $10 bus from Ft. Lauderdale to game & back early Sun. morning A pep rally Friday, tailgater Sat & Mass at hotel Sunday 
Notre Dame 
Call Greg Moore (305) 566-4732 for reservations or Student Union 239-7757 for details. 

Be There Student Union 

Berke Breathed 
I~ So (II VlJ ( 
6MBARRA:JSW n'Aifl• 

Photius 

Dave & Dave 
you'RE. BoTH wRONG··· 
S~E ~AS fJO TON,UE., 


Campus · 
Friday, Sept. 16 
•2 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Lawyer as Lobbyist," Wil­liam A. Geoghegan, 115 Law School 

•3:30 
p.m.-Dedication, ofHaggar College Cen­ter, SMC 

•4 
p.m. -Spanish Club Tertulla, LaFortune Main Floor 

•7 
p.m. -Pep Rally, Stepan Center 

•7,9:15 
and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Rebecca," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, 


n 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Quartet," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m.-Soccer, NO Men vs. Loyola, Cartier Field 

•8 
p.m. -Irish Pub Night, featuring Jim Coor and Friends, Haggar College Center Terrace 

•9 
p.m. -Spank the Spartans Party, Chautauqua Ballroom, Sponsored by Notre Dame Progressive Musik Club, $1 


Saturday, Sept. 17 
•9 
a.m. -Baseball, Notre Dame Alumni Game, Jake Kline Field 

•10:30 
a.m. -Volleyball, NO Women vs. South­western Michigan, ACC 

•1
:30 p.m. -Football, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, Stadium 


Sunday, Sept. 18 
•10:30 
a.m.-Mass, Officially opening the I 41st school year, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Sacred Heart Church B41 p.m.-Baseball, NO Men vs. Bradley Univer­sity, Jake Kline Field 

•1 
p.m. -Opening Exhibition, ofReligious Nar­rative in the 16th Century Rome, Annenberg Auditorium 

•2 
p.m. -Reception, for new faculty members, Center for Continuing Education 



I Far Side ­
Fate 
I DON'T CAR£ WHO Y~U !if[ OK WI/AT TEAM YOU PLAY fOK. THAT fAfER 
/S DUE S£P{£M8ER :U 


Mellish 
DONAlO, YouR DATE iS ""'~EDIBLY AlTAACT!VE. ... B~T Si-lf HASN'T SAID A woRD ALl NI6Hr. 

I'll OH SHd A HoR~IBtE: IONVfRsATIOtJALIST-A!L 
LOO~AN=~ 
44 Parents 45 Suitto­46 Salutes 47 Pioneer's 
transport 49 Revise 50 Onewho 
worships 52 Roscoeof 
old films 
53 Rooter 
56 Card game 
57 A US pres· ident 59 Sea bird 60 Appends 61 Happening 62 Duty list 63 Scratch out 64 Affirma· tives 
65 Give forth 
DOWN 1 Beat it! 2 Scottish 
island 
3 Popular newspaper features 
4 Building extensioa 
5 Written authoriza. tion 
6 Kitchen 
wear 7 Seethe 8 Twitching 9 Admissions 
10 Branch of knowledge 
11 Left a place with· outa...trace 
12-the kill 13 Wax 21 -·war bird 


The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

(skua) 23 Otherwise 25 One: Ger. 26 Versifier 27 Drugstore: 
abbr. 28 Blood 
vessel 29 Torrent 31 Distribute 
evenly 32 Small ducks 38 Auxiliary 
verb 39 Small bird 41 Condiment 43 Wargod 48 Ascended 49 Make amends 50 At a dis· 
tance 51 Art move· ment 52 Lines of 
rotation 54 Against 55 Cleverly 
done 58 Contraction 59 Before, 
to 
"'''-r~ Chrontcle Features, 19B3 

~·········••++++++++++++++••············· 
.........................................! 
+• J  Meet Notre Dame Ist. Marys' Alumni at Senior Bar  :i•  
i  Friday and Saturday  SE\·  i  
:: + :  Saturday will be a great victory party Don't miss it!!  ci''oR'R .--1  ::i  
•:  Hours:Friday 9:00-2:00  Saturday 10:00-game; after game-2:00  •+  



Sports 
Friday, September 16, 1983-page 20 
Cross country team ready to start season 
By DAVID ROOP 
.\jmrts lf'rlter 
"Notre lJame track is the best kept se£·ret ;, South Bend." -joe Piane. 
Rumor has it that this year's Notre 
Dame cross country team is going to 
prove that one of Coach Joe Plane's 
favorite sayings is a mere descrip­
tion of the past. 
Fortunately, this year's team has added some new names to this year's already lengthy list of freshman sensations. Led by Mike Collins, a native oflreland. and Craig Maxfield, a resident of Belville, Ontario, this frt·shman contingent is prepared to make an immediate impact on this year's team. They will push Tim Can­non, Andy Dillon, Ralph Caron, and Ed Juha for positions among the top five Irish runners. 
Rob Durkee, the 1982 Oregon 
State high school champ, John 
Furno, and jeff Van Wie, a top­
ranked mld4le distance man, should 
also ma.ke.a•VIIIuable contribution to 
this year's·~-
Evcn 4 the loss of 1982 co­captains llfM'c Wozniak and Tim Bartrand, ....,_ feels that this squad is more solfd'than last year's group. 
"The teiuli came back much fitter 
than it had In previous years," states 
Piane. "I'm confident going into 
Ohio State (today) and I think we 
have a shot at qualifying for this 
year's NCAA Championships." 
Cannon, last year's top runner, 
shares captain's honors with Dillon, 
a senior RA from Morrissey Hall. 
These two, along with senior pre­
med major Caron, should compete 
for the top spot on the team this 
year. Juha, Ed Willenhrink, Collins, 
Jim Tyler, and John Adams will 
battle for the fourth and fifth point 
scoring positions. 
For those who are unfamiliar with 
cross country, the lowest team score 
wins. The score is computed by 
totaling the place numbers of each 
team's top five runners. 
The cross country team faces some very serious challenges this year. It is a member ofthe NCAA Dis-
Saint Mary's volleyball wins opener 
By KATHY MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team captured its first victory in a quick contest against !USB last night. It was the Bt'lles' season opener, and their 11rst game under new head coach Brian Goralski. 
Coach Goralski was pleased with his team's first l'ffort which it won in three straight games, I ';-4, 1 5-4, 1 ';­2. 
(ioralski commented, "Although this is a young squad, comprised of one senior, four juniors, one sopho­more. and seven freshmen, I feel that this will he a promising season for tht·m." 
After only two weeks of practice, tht· Belles were abk to dominate IUSB in all aspects of tht· game. Led by vt·tt·rans Loret llancy, Miki Matt·rnowski. and Anne Boutton. the Belles passed and served wdl. llowt·vcr, \iorabki was quick to point out that he hopt'd to improvt· in ead1 game. 
Tht· lklle,· nt·xt honw match is Wt·dncsday. Septt·mber 21. against (ira('l' College. The gamt· will start at 6 ... m. 10 Angela. 
trict 4, which Plane calls "the tough­est division in the United States." This district boasts defending na­tional champs Wisconsin, Michigan, the tlfth best team in the nation, and the fifteenth-best squads, Purdue and Miami of Ohio. 
Basically, the season is comprised of three sections: a "pre-season" composed of dual meets with Ohio State and Northwestern, a regular seasoon with five successive larger meets, and a post-season which in­cludes the NCAA District 4 Cham­pionship as well as the NCAA Championships. 
Although the pre-season is really an essential part ofthe season, these two dual meets serve as a good preparation for the more important larger races. 
"The key to our season is consis­tency," concludes Piane. "We have to run solid in a group at the front of 
team •plit a pair of~eamt>• with B1l1Wr and Da_-yton. Stor_v the pack in every race. That's what bt>low. (Photo b.v Han~il Cupero) Wisconsin did last year and they crushed everyone they ran against." Recently, the team has practiced by running about nine miles during the course of their workout each day. Since the Notre Dame campus is not blessed with the cross country 
Irish starts to beat injuries
runner's delight -hills -the team 
must drive to a hilly location near 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Marion High School. last Friday's 
Sports Editor 
workout included a two-mile warm­up and a two-mile "warm down," The list ofinjuries read as follows: with the top seven runners complet­stress fracture of leg, dislocated ing a four-mile run at a 5:20 mile shoulder, jammed thumb, tender clip. 
ankle, and partially dislocated shoul­Piane reveals, "The pack was der. There arc also a number of as­
talking throughout the workout, not 
sorted minor injuries. In all, three 
folding underneath the pressure of 
starters arc out indefinitely and an­the heat and the fast pace. 
other is playing wounded. 
"It is mental toughness that The football team, right? Wrong. 
separates the top runners from the It's the Notre Dame volleyball team. 
rest of the pack." 
These injuries have plagued the Thus, it is the coach's respon­team for the first two weeks of the 
sibility to instill this toughness while 1983 season, sending the team to the runners log countless miles. Col­ten consecutive losses, more than lins cites Piane's positive attitude the total number of losses all last 
and encouraging manner as his best 
year.
coaching tools. However, Piane is However, it appears that t~1c team 
quick to mention that it is the team's 
is settling down finally. By winning
determination which accounts for 
two ofits last three games, includingtheir improvement. 
a split of its first two conference 
This team points to an extremely 
matches, Sandy Vanslager's squadsuccessful season with this blend of has begun playing as well as it confidence and humility. The first should. 
hurdle is today's 8000-meter race 
Wednesday's matches against North Star Conference foes Butler
see RUN, page 18 
and Dayton in Indianapolis were the best efforts that the Irish have made this season. After beating Butler, 15­8, 10-15, 15-3, 7-15, 15-12, the tired team lost to a rested Dayton, 1 5-8, 12-1 5, 11-15, 15-11' 1 5-12. 
"The players' performance level has gone up," said Vanslager. "The practices have been a major factor in contributing to their improvement. 
"Their transition from offense to defense was very good. Offensively, we hit the ball well. Although, at times, we held back offensively, it wasn't as much as in the past." 
Another problem that had been nagging the team was its erratic play. Vanslagcr had attributed this to a lack of concentration. Despite the destraction of losing so many players to injuries, though, the players seem to be overcoming this problem as well. 
"There was very little erratic play this time," Vanslager said. "There were a few times, but not many. 
"The concentration level is also getting much better. It's one of the 

What's happening? 
Sports this weekend 
TODAY 
soccer  NO tennis  
vs. Loyola  vs. Butler  
7:30p.m.  3:30p.m.  
Cartier Field  Courtney Courts  

field hockey vs. Adrian field east of ACC 

SUNDAY 
baseball vs. Bradley 1 p.m. Jake Kline Field 

TOMORROW 

baseball NO tennis 
Alumni Game vs. DePauw 9a.m. 9a.m. Jake Kline Field Courtney Courts 
rugby lacrosse vs. Miami (Ohio) Alumni Game 
10a.m. 10a.m. 
behind Stepan Cartier Field 
ND volleyball vs. Southwestern Michigan 
10:30 a.m. ACC Auxiliary Gym 
football vs. Michigan State 1:30 p.m. Stadium 
things we've been working on in 
practice and it shows." 
The matches on Wednesday were probably the most important so far this year. Dayton is probably the strongest team in the conference at this point in the season (although, when fully healthy, Notre Dame is stronger). Butler is also a tough team. 
The match against Butler lasted for almost two hours as neither side could take two games in a row. The Irish finally put the match away by winning a close fifth game. 
After getting a short rest period, Notre Dame found itselfback out on the court to take on a Dayton team that had sat and watched the marat­hon match. 
Despite losing the first game, the Irish fought back and came within one game of taking the match. However, the fatigue began to show as the Flyers were able to outlast Notre Dame in the last two games for the win. 
The match was so tiring for both sides that Dayton promptly dropped behind Butler, who had time to rest, in the final match ofthe evening. 
For the Irish, the match provided a chance for some ofthe players who had not received a great deal of playing time. Tracy Bennington started in the place of Kathy McKeown who did not make the trip, and Terese Henken made her second start in a row in place of Mary McLaughlin. 
Last year's Most Valuable Player 
Karen Bauters remains out of the 
lineup and probably will not return 
until late in the season. She is suffer­
ing from a dislocated shoulder and a 
stress fracture of her leg. 
Vanslager was eager to point out how important last week's large home crowds were to her team's performance. 
"The fact that there have been large, vocal crowds at our games helped the players adjust to the dis­tractions," she said. "There wert' some real noisy people at Butler, hut we were 'able to ignore them." 
IRISH ITEMS -The split in In­dianapolis givt·s tht· team a :'1-3 dual mn·t record as Lake Michigan. who was to visit the ACC next Wednt·~­Jay forfeited. The overall rn·ord, including tournaments, is 5-I l .... The Irish women will try to con­tinue their impron·ment tomornm' morning agamst Southwestern :\'iichigan. The match will begin .It 








