....~-...~~..~~~--~....~-.--~~........-...~~..................~..~......~~.r...~~.....-~··~=~cs~............,.a~EQ~C•~-~....~ 
• • • Recruits -page 13 

VOL. XVII, NO. 127 the independent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 1983 
Haley calls to preserve ·special family heritage 
By SONYA STINSON occasions with portraits. He also SeniorStaffReporter said families should search their homes for such relics as old letters, 
Americans should celebrate and clothing, and photographs. preserve the special heritages of One of Haley's recollections was their families because what is excit· of his discovery of his grandfather's ing about this country is its diversity, business-like letter ofproposal to his author Alex Haley told an audience grandmother. He also recalled the in the Library Auditorium last night. visits ofhis great aunts to Henning in 
Haley, who wrote the bestselling the years after his grandfather's novelRoots and The Autobiography death, and the conversations they ofMalcolm X, said that "travelling would have on the front porch ofhis has taught me that we are really one grandmother's house. people, though different adjectives He spoke humorously of the may apply, and we ultimately have events that took place when the sis­one common destiny." ters got together, such as snuff dip­
Haley's lecture was the last of a ping. Among them, Haley said his series sponsored by the Student Uni· great aunt Liz was the champion dip­on on the future of American per and practice shooter. "Aunt Liz society. Through vivid recollections could drop a lightening bug at six of his family life as a child growing yards," he quipped. up in Henning, Tennessee, he spoke He would hear the women speak­of his concern for protecting the ing of such characters as "Tom the

Associated Press 
future of the family. blacksmith," "Chicken George" and 

congressman calls for party unity despite the strong white ·turnout for Republican opponent 
The modern family has changed in "the African," -characters about many ways from days past, Haley whom Haley later would write in

BernardEpton. See story• on page 4. pointed out. Today, there are more Roots. and more single parent households . Haley said he learned the stories
Immunization program 
and unmarried couples living to· because he heard them so often, and gether, and three-generation because they seemed similar to the families are no longer common. biblical parables he heard in Sunday 

'No measle c~ses' reported at ND 
But, Haley said, "I don't think any school. 

By CECILIA LUCERO while.at the university, not while· in responded to a second innoculation of(these changes) indicate anything He recalled how he entered the StaffReporter South Bend, according to Susan measure March 22. Ruidl said that about the disintegration of the fami­Coast Guard, mainly because he was Hayes, managing editor ofIndiana medical records of another seven ly; it's just that society is changing." such an unenthusiastic college stu­"We had no reported case of Daily Student, IU's student hundred students were brought up Family members should make a dent. While aboard ship during measles here," said Student Health newspaper. A few cases of measles to date. special effort to get to know one an­World War II, his fellow seamen dis­Center administrator, Sister Marion were reported at Bloomington in Ruidl said that the response to the other and preserve the memories of covered his talent for writing and 
Ruidl, commenting on recent February. Apparently, the studt:nt, measles alert was "a good response. their lives together, Haley said. He began to pay him to create lyric love developments in the measles issue who was not immunized against the The students were very cooper· suggested that families hold peri­
See HALEY, page 4 

that affected Saint joseph county illness, was exposed. ative." odic reunions and memorialize the residents. According to Mazie Martin, from "We're hoping that we won't have the Saint joseph County Public 
Ground Zero Month 
any. Dr. Qames) Bowes (from the Health Department, officials in­Public Health Department of Saint stituted immunization programs at joseph County) and his staff and our various locations in Saint Jose·ph 

Group urges nuclear awareness
staff worked very hard to prevent County including IUSB, Bethel Col­that," she said. • lege, and Notre Dame/Saint Mary's By-JEFF HARRINGTON U.S.," Goulet said. "We hope toed· Firebreaks Group Leader Kerry
A measles immunization program to prevent a possible outbreak. Assistant News Editor ucate people that the nuclear threat Brennan echoed this observation,
for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­Bowes sent 4,500 invitations to is very real." noting the "variety of viewpoints"

dents was conducted before and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­The United States Government Although it was formed in represented. "The game is very
during spring break by Saint Joseph dents who needed measles in­bas learned of an explosive situa­response to the national Ground politically neutral .. .I wouldn't beCounty Public Health Department. noculations, said Ruidl. In the tion in CentralAmerica-Cuba has Zero Organization, the campus playing if it wasn't." 

Health officials were wary of a process, students' medical records sent 5,000 troops and a large supp­coalition is affiliated with the Center Despite the initial positive
measles outbreak when a student also were brought up to date. 

ly ofarms to Nicaragua despite U.S. for Social Concerns ( CSC). The response to the game, student par­from Indiana University at "Up to (Spring) break, we had im­protest. .group, Goulet said, was organized in ticipation was less than GroundBloomington reported the illness in munized the first few thousand stu· 
lt'sApri/9, 1988. conjunction with the esc peace Zero organizers had hoped for. Dub­
February. dents," said Ruidl. A .nother two 

You, as special adviser to the U.S. representatives chosen from each bing April a "bad month for college
The student contracted the illness hundred students voluntarily President, must decide whether to dorm earlier in the year. campuses," Goulet blamed the busy promote a naval quarantine of The first session ofFirebreaks was academic period for decreased in­Nicaragua, use diplomatic pressure held last Sunday with ten teams of volvement. "A lot of people are in­

Centerfor Social Concerns 

against the Cubans, or deploy 12-15 players each participating. terested in it (Firebreaks), but it's American troops to tb~ area. "Usually three dorms played togeth· hard to find time to play."
holds dedication ceremonies er with one female dorm included in The focus during the third and last The above scenario is not a every group," said Goulet. week of Firebreaks will be "What prediction of the world situation in 
About the Russians?" Calling for a By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN holicism and graduated from Notre five years. Rather, it is a hypothetical "common bond" between the
THURSDAY 

StaffReporter Dame in 1960. problem which arises during United States and the U.S.S.R., Goulet Nouwen is not a stranger to Notre Firebreaks, a nuclear war/peace 
said the two countries should strive Notre Dame's new Center for So· Dame either. He was a visiting game organized by the Notre toward cultural integration. "The



ocus

cia! Concerns ( CSC) officially opens professor here in the sixties ( 1966-Dame/Saint Mary's Ground Zero Or­its doors today and tomorrow 68) and has maintained a number of ganization. See GROUND ZERO, page 8 during dedication ceremonies high· important friendships in this com­Planned for three consecutive Dividing into two teams lighted by a guest homily from munity since his departure. He col­Sundays in April, Firebreaks is "just representing the U.S. and the Soviet ,-------------.., 

social-justice analyst Nouwen.  Father  Henri  laborated with Father Don McNeill, director of the (esc), and others in  one part of the effort during Ground Zero Month to provide information  Union, each player/adviser would try to defend his or her respective  
The  homily will  be  given  at  a  writing the book Compassion.  about a possible nuclear war," said  country's position .during a poten­ 
Thanksgiving  Mass  celebrated  by  Nouwen  is .from  Holland  and  Brigette Goulet, publicity chairman  tially dangerous situation.  
Father Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­ studied psychology at the University  for the campus movement.  "Working from a given scenario,  
sity president,  at  5 p.m.  today in  of Nijmegen.. Working toward his  Created by former White House  each player has to make decisions to  
Sacred Heart Church.  degree there required a long intern­ nuClear strategist Roger Molander,  prevent a nuclear war," said Goulet.  
Asymposium on social justice, led  ship which Nouwen once described  the national Ground Zero Organiza­ "The emphasis (of the game) is on  
in part by Holy CrossCollege history  as a "good excuse to do almost any­ tion has grown extensively during  being aware."  
professor  David  O'Brien,  will  thing you wished." His experience  the past few years as a nuclear war  Goulet said she believes the game  
analyze the future of social services  included work in coal mines, fac­ education project.  will be unlikely to alienate players  
at  Catholic  colleges.  O'Brien will  tories, the army, and as a chaplain for  The key focus of the movement is  since  no  political  viewpoint  is  
begin  the  symposium  at  9  a.m.  the Holland-American Line.  "to increase . awareness of the pos­ promoted.  "Since •'the  (Ground  
tomorrow  in  the  Center  for  Later, as a pastor in Louisiana, he  sibility of nuclear war and to get a  Zero) program is not politically af.  
Continuing Education. O'Brien is an author of several books on Cat- See NOUWEN, page 8  deeper understanding of how nuclear proiifention will affect the  filiated, more people will terested in participating."  be  in·  

Erratum 
Tuesday's Observer incorrect· ly reported the contents of a let· ter sent by Student Body President Brian Callaghan to North Carolina State University concerning the NCAA basketball championships. 
Callaghan wrote that he hopes Notre Dame and N.C. State will continue to play one another during the regular season. He did not mention Notre Dame's vic­tory over N.C. State this year. 
~-------~-~-~------------­


News Brie/§ 
Thursday, Aprill4, 1983-page 2 

By The Obsen1er and The Associated Press 
Spring is the time for growth ,but for Main­tenance Director John Moorman, it has also been a time for repair and construction. Some early projects include the tuckpointing and repair of the roof on O'Shaughnessy Hall on the South Quad. A new steam line has also been installed between the Towers and Memorial library. The utilities department said a deteriorating line had to be removed. -The Observer 
Today is April 14th, which means that tomorrow is April I 5th, the last day to pay federal income taxes. To avoid a penalty, tax returns must be postmarked by midnight tomorrow. In conjunction, to protest United States' military spending, a group from the Michiana area will pay their taxes in foodstuffs rather than dollars tomorrow at I I :30 a.m. at the offices ofthe Internal Revenue Service in South Bend. The members of the group say they want to insure that their money is not used for "purposes offensive to their conscienct>s." -The Observer 
Teachers ofbusinesslaw in Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio will participate in a two-day annual meeting here. beginning tomorrow. Topics ranging from "bankruptcy" and "anti-trust" to "estate planning for professional athletes" and "organized crime in sports" will be addressed by nearly 30 speakers. Professor G. Robert Blakey of the Notre Dame Law School and former chief counsel of the House Select Committee on Assassinations, will speak on crime while Professor Richard Urda, also of Notre Dame, will focus on estate planning. Football coach Gerry Faust will be the principle speaker at the Friday dinner in the University Club. Schools represented by speakers include the state universities in Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio, as well as Bowling Green, Case-Western Reserve, Western Michigan, Eastern Michigan, Cincinnati, Wayne 
State, Illinois Benedictine, Northern Illinois, Bentley College ofWal­
tham, Massachusetts, Ohio University and Western Kentucky.-The Observer 
The Student Comprehensive Art Show 
enters its final week as three senior art majors at Saint Mary's College exhibit their work in the Moreau, Uttle Theatre and Hammes galleries April 16-21. The Student Comprehensive Art Show features a variety ofmedia. Lucy Byrnes, a native of McHenry, Ill., will exhibit a series of five large tapestry weavings that represent certain passages of literature. Juliette Low ins, a resident of Libertyville, Ill., will display her abstract oil paintings entitled "Contemplative Reflections." Nappanee, Ind., native Laura Stover will show a series of black and white photographs that illusrate of juxtaposition of the 19th and 20th centuries. The Saint Mary's galleries, located in the Moreau Fine Arts Building, are open from 9:30 a.m. to noon and I 
p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The galleries are closed on Saturday, but open from I p.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday. There is no admission charge. -The Observer 
Kevin Misiewicz, an associate professor of accountancy at Notre Dame, is the recipient of the first Arthur Young faculty fellowship in taxation. The appointment was an­nounced by University provost Timothy O'Meara. Misiewicz earned his doctorate degree at Michigan State University and carne to Notre Dame in 1978 after teaching four years at the University ofTexas in Austin. This spring he introduced an advanced tax course in the graduate program of business. The fellowship, announced recently by the nation-wide accounting firm, provides for two years of research on current issues in taxation. Both graduate and under­graduate education in this area is expected to be enhanced by the results of the research. -The Obsen,er 
Yozo Matsushima, a professorof mathematics at Notre Dame for 14 years, died Saturday in Osaka, Japan following a brief illnes. He was 62. Matsushima received his Ph.D in 1947 from Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan. Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1966, he was a postdoctoral fellow at the llniversity of Paris, professor of mathematics at Osaka and Nagoya Universities, a member of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University and a visiting professor at the University of Grenoble, Grenoble, France. He left Notre Dame in 1980 ro resume teaching at Osaka University. Dr. Matsushia was internationally known for his work in differential geometry, lie groups and complex manifolds. He was the author of three books and more than 40 research papers. -The Ob­
server 

Some brands ofbirth controlpills raise tevets ofa kind ofcholesterol linked with heart disease, and long-time use of these pills "may be undesirable," a study in Boston says. The research may explain why women who use the pill face an increased risk ofheart attack and stroke. The researchers found widely varying levels ofdifferent forms ofcholesterol in pill users' blood, depending largely on the proportion oftwo kinds ofsex hormones in their birth control pills. Pills that are relatively high in progestin and low in estrogen raise the levels ofthe hazardous form ofcholesterol, called low density lipoprotein cholesterol, or LDL. But pills that were low in progestin and high in estrogen didn't do this. -AP 
A 60 percent chance of shower~, Temperatures fal­
ling to the mid 40s by afternoon. Cold tonight with a chance for sprinkles or flurries. Lows in low to mid 30s. Very cold tomorrow with a chance for flurries. Highs in upper 30s. -AP 
On the afternoon of March 17, 1983, my roommate and I were in The Button -the infamous Fort Lauderdale bar which sponsored a happy hour that resulted in a campus controversy: Just how far can one go in expressing his "loyalty" to Notre Dame? 
The atrnospere in the bar started me thinking. Many people blame the alcohol for the hysteria that prevailed on St. Pat's Day in The Button. I feel that alcohol was only a secondary factor. l, along with others in the bar, was very sober, and yet my blood was boiling with a feeling of pseudo-hatred for students of the other uni­versities present. 
Amidst the chants of "We are N.D.!", the rest of the bar screamed "N.I.T.! N.I.T.!." Marquette, Kentucky, and Missouri are all Notre Dame basketball foes who were invited to the NCAA tournament -and they did a fine job ofreminding us that we were left off the NCAA's Jist. Because of that the Fighting Irish took a verbal beating. 
At one point, a gentleman from Marquette tapped me and asked me if I was from Notre Dame. When l said yes, his friend turned around and proceeded to urinate on 

my  feet.  Disgusting?  Yes.  
Alcohol-enhanced?  Yes.  
Alcohol-inspired?  No.  The  

inspiration was Notre Dame's 57-55 last-second victory over Marquette this year, as well as the long­running athletic rivalry be­tween the schools. 

Disgusting as it was, I really believe that, in a dis­torted way, the young man was displaying his school spirit. And his friends ap­plauded him, not because he did something as vile as urinating in public, but because he did something to "hurt Notre Dame." 
That evening, Notre Dame was given a solid trounc­ing by Northwestern in the N.I.T. tournament. The next day, passersby on the beach, noticing my Notre Dame t-shirt, began to jeer and rub in the Joss. At first, I felt anger rising again -as it had in The Button. Then I thought for a minute. Why should I care? Is sports the essence of"school spirit"? 
This University thrives on athletics and "school spirit". So why was the Administration so shocked with the Button incident? The University encourages the football and basketball hoopla to the fullest. Look at some instances ofthis: 
• A basketball coach publicly announces that he would like everyone to bring newspapers to the game and read them while U.C.L.A. players are introduced and take the floor. How rude and unsportsmanlike can a student body be? If a speaker or any other representative of an-

I WISH I HAD A .. 

Design Editor.... ............ Ken "Real Major" 
Cerabona 

Design Assistant.. Carole "Cookie" Clark Layout Staff......... Sybil "Airplane" Smoot Typesetters ..jim "Real Brother" Macl.en­
nan Toni "Date" Rutherford News Editor........jeff"Bottle ofRed" Har­
rington 

Copv Editor ... Beth "Fellowship" Hackett Features Layout... ... Mary "Clue" Healy Sports IL"<tra Layout... .... Mike "David Popson" Riccardi .~ports Copr Editor ..jane"A Life" Healey NO Da)• Editor..... Ann "Secretary" Bailey SMC D'ar Editor Tari "Customer" Brown Tvpists :........ .. ............ Tari again 
Mike "Good Night's Sleep" Sullivan 
Mary lkth "Another Clue" Porter Ad Design.:...... Marilyn "Trip to Arizona" Larkin Pbotograpber...... Hamil"llaseball Team" 
Cupero 

Guest Appearances .. "Cottontail" Rabbit, 
jeb "job" Cashin, Timo "A Place to Store My Windsurfer" Wind, Sarah "GPA" Hamilton, "A Free Trip to London and a Mercedes 4 50SL" McKnight, "A Place at the Dunes" Niemeyer, and Tim "Real job" Neeley 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 · 
God made Notre Dame. • • 
Diane Dirkers 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Thursday 


other university were to take the stage and the students were to respond in a similar manner, the Administration would be appalled and, more than likely, would take disciplinary action. For example, recall the 1981 graduation and the University's threats to anyone who was thinking of staging any type of "disrespectful" protest to Reagan's speech. 
• For many years, Dillon had its traditional pep rallies on Thursday nights, capped off by its fight song. Dillon's song is vulgar and explicit -violating every principle 
held by the University. But since it was part of the foot­ball hoopla, the University let it slide. It was Gerry Faust, not the Administra­tion, who finally asked stu­dents to halt this well-known activity. 
"All's fair in love, war, :md footbalL" The University seems to accept such a double standard. This does not imply that I am not an avid and vocal Irish fan -I am. But I find it amusing to see a university which clings to its proud "great and Cath­olic" image, allow conduct it normally would condemn to go by untouched or even en­couraged -just because it's 
a football weekend. How can the University expect stu­dents to feel that being reprimanded for an action is fair, when the same action is considered "spirited" on foot­ball weekends? (i.e. drinking ...why are Saturday morning parietals changed to 10 a.m. -there is no­thing else to do at that hour that is any different than on any other weekend. Except to go to tailgaters and drink before the game.) 
It's about time that Notre Dame realizes that God did not make it "number one." The 1981-82 football and basketball seasons proved that either: (no. I ) -God gave up on us or (no. 2) -God doesn't really care who wins a game. I believe the latter statement is true. 
I don't think that there's anything wrong with screaming at a football game, singing the fight song. and the whole rah-rah mentality. What must be remem­bered, though, when the final buzzer goes off is -it's only a game, not a license to practice an "all's fair" men­tality. 





The Observer Thursday, April 14, 1983 -page 3 
'Machine ofthe Year' lecture 


Prof links computers 1to chemistry 

Bv CHUCK KRILL 
and KATHY WEISENBERGER 
News Staff 
The world of chemistry is being reshaped by computers, said Maurice Schwartz, associate profes­sor of chemistry, in a talk on "Computers in Chemical Research" yesterday afternoon. 
The lecture was part ofa series en­titled "Computers in Science Research." which is highlighting Time magazine's "Machine of the Year." 
Noting the expanding role of computers in everyday life, Schwartz displayed· many newspaper and magazine articles that indicate the amount ofattention computers are receiving today. 
In the Held of chemistry, he said that computers have already been integrated into experimental and theoretical work and that they are becom ing necessary in many areas of chemical research. "I don't need to convince anyone that computers are extremely important and use­ful," he said. 
Schwartz outlined various ex­perimental and theoretical problems in quantum chemistry, molecular orbital chemistry and spectroscopy which indicate how the computational power of com­puters can be used to aid in research. 
The computations faced by chemists trying to understand molecular structure and bonding, he said, are so numerous and tedious that a computer is necessary to handle them. 

"It's just the kind of thing that a computer is well set to do -big cal­culations that are repetitive and need to be done many times until some criteria have been satisfied," he said. 

Maurice Schwartz 

Throughout the lecture, Schwartz presented examples ofcomputer ap­plications in chemistry performed by Notre Dame professors and showed that their computer­predicted results corresponded very well with their experimental results. Until recently, he noted, many of these experimental results could not be predicted from theory. 
The Hrst lecture of the series, "Computers in Biological Research," was presented April fifth by Notre Dame biology professors Theodore Crovello, Harald Esch, Ronald Hellenthal, and Stt:phen Car­
penter. 

They emphasized the ability of computers to collect and arrange vast amounts of data, simulate events and produce stimuli. 
Esch pointed out that computers enable understanding of animal be­havior. For example, one speaker noted that when students perform experiments with mice in mazes, they complain that it takes the mice 30 or 40 minutes to reach the end of the maze. 
But when students themselves are required to go through a maze on a computer screen, it takes them over an hour. In this way students become aware that mice possess spatial intelligence which humans do not. 
Crovello speciHed several current problems in the Held of computers. He said that there is a need for new methods ofanalysis, for reliable data, and for trained people not only to accumulate data but also recycle and analyze it. 
"There deHnitely will be a com­puter in your life," and people need to know how to use computers in the various broad areas in which they can be useful, he concluded. 
Project Future effort 
Business College mails surveys 
By THERESA HARDY follow in starting his business, con­purer industry is on the rise. News Staff tacts he should make, and the Businesses will need to tocus their problems that he may encounter." efforts on this sector, which is al­
Nine hundred ninety-six surveys Although Birley has received only ready encountering healthy are being sent to local businesses a few responses, she already is growth." and organizations in St. Joseph predicting what the survey will indi­Birley said she belit:ves that County, by researchers at Notre cate. "The manufacturing sector is "businesses are far more afffected by Dame's College of Business, accord­on the decline, whereas the service the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­ing to Sue Birley, assistant professor sector, which includes the com-munity than the town realizes." 
and director ofthe survey. "I am using the survey for academic purposes, but it's also 
lKnigltts oftl}t Q!astlt
going to be very useful for Project Future, an organization which stim­·Haircut Shampoo Blowdry ulates growth in St. Joseph County by retaining established businesses & Condition Reg. $15 and starting new businesses," said 
NOV\f $8.50 with coupon
Birley. The 20-page, multiple choice sur­Haircut only $6 with coupo'l
54533 Terrece Lane, vey asks entrepeneurs a variety of Soutll Bend (Across lrotfl 
· (Hair must be washed day ofcut)
questions about their business, Martin's on S.R. 23) including: What kind of business is TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30

it? Why was it started in St. Joseph 272·0312 277 ·1691 
SAT. 8:30-5:30 

($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 
County? When? How many jobs has 
it created? What are some problems 
that it has encountered? How is busi­ness currently? What kind of people started it? What has made the busi­
SUMMER STORAGE SPAOI 
ness successful? 
Special discount for ND/SMC students 
"Such a survey is particularly 

(S x 10 space $18.80 per month) 
helpful since it is directed to businesses started in a time ofreces­
CALL 259·0335 to RESERVE SPJA.CE 
sion and not in a time ofprosperity," said Birley. "I am interested in small 
SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY firms and businesses. This area is small, contained and fairly acces­
816 East Me Kinley 
sible for such a survey. It will be use­
Mishawaka
ful in comparing St. Joseph County to other industrial counties in In­
Security Patrol Checks 
diana" 
After the· surveys are returned to 
Associated Press 
Federal ReseroeBoard Chairman Paul Volckerbas a laugh while appearing before the House Banking Committee on Capitol Ht/1 Tuesday. Volcker told thepanel that interest rates remain too high to support a long-term economic recovery. 
NEED FUNDS FOR YOUR CLUB NEXT YEAR? 
TRY THE STUDENT UNION mOVIE LOnERY 

All organization& interested in sponsoring a movie in either semester nextyear should pick up an application atthe Office of Student Activities. Applications must be returned by Friday, April 15 


'ifTh: Best Bee: -~~:Ar~b;;e~

Create your own fresh. frothy, natural beer with our complete t Ilbrewing kits. . I i At Crystal Mountain we help you put it all together: The finest li·malts, hops, and yeasts available, simple, quality equipment, and I ~ step-by-step procedures-everything you need to make 5 gallons I t 


Alight. smooth taste: $39.85 are also available separately ' Amber Ale D -send for free brochure. 0 ARavorful, golden brew: $39.85 
0 Money Order
European Dark Ale D °Check
0 MasterCard 0 VISA ~ A mellow. Old World flavor $41.00
' Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery. Irish Stout D Add $5.80 for shipping and handling Rich dark and full bodied: 44.00 Texas residents add So/o sales tax. > 
f 
Nome ___

:_.j~.
Street address ___________________ 

\ 
~: City/State/Zip Card H ___________,Exp. Date_______ 
Signature --------------------=-·~ 

Birley, she will compile the informa­tion to be used by Project Future. This organization, which was started a year ago by the Chamber of Com­merce, assists local businesses with. expansion and economic develop­ment. 
"Project Future is an economic developing program designed to build the South Bend/Mishawaka area into a viable economic center assuring future growth and prosperity," said a representative from Project Future. "The primary obje<:tive is to significantly increase employment and the business base in St. Jo~eph County." 
The representative said that "the information collected from the sur­vey will provide the entrepreneur with the step by step procedure to 

,.. ... 
Applications for 
ASSISTANT TREASURER~ STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Tr~easurer's Office 
2nd floor LaFortune Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting major 
Applications Due Friday, April15 4:00 PM 
r,...___,..,__ 
~~~~~~~­

TheObserver Thursday, April 14, 1983 -page 4 

Patti McElroy, Bob Walsh, and Dale Fronk sion of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes last (from left) discuss biblicalpassages during a ses-night in St. Ed's Chapel. 



Former Ambassador to speak at St. Mary's 
By HELEN LUCAITIS 
News Staff 
Donald McHenry, former United States ambassador to the United Na­tions, will speak on current issues of foreign alfairs at the Saint Mary's Business Association's annual spring dinner April 15. 
The Business Associates program 
is made up of area business people · 
who contribute to Saint Mary's Col­
lege and meet twice a year for din­
ner and to hear a speaker. 
"I was interested in getting the former ambassador to come to Saint Mary's because he serves both the public and private sectors," said Tom Becker, director of Develope­ment at Saint Mary's. "He will bring a unique perspective to our area busi­ness associates." 
Currently a University Research Professor of Diplomacy and Interna­tional Affairs at Georgetown, McHenry served as chief U.S. 
repesentative to the United Nations 
from September 1979 until January, 
1981. During that time he also was a 
member of PresidentJimmy Carter's 
cabinet. 
McHenry, who has studied, taught and worked primarily in the fields of foreign policy and international law, joined the U.S. Department of the State in 1963 and spent eight years in various positions related to U.S. foreign policy. 
He served as a member of Presi­dent Carter's transition stalf at the Department of State in 1976 and then was appointed U.S. deputy rep­resentative to the U.N. Security Council in 1977. 
McHenry also is president of In­ternational Relations Consultants, Inc., director ofCoca-Cola and is in­volved with many other organiza­tions. He is the author of "Micronesia: Trust Betrayed" and of numerous articles. 
Movin'out? 
RENTA 




RYDER TRUCK 
If you're 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-it-here.leave-i.t-rhereJ trip to another c1ty 
Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end of the semester With a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. clothes, all your stuff. and stilt have plenty of room for one or two other people and their things. so you can share the costs Compare that to a plane ticket. Or even a bus. 


Rent from the best-maintained. most dependable fleet in 'I
1' R 
~-......... 

-----------------~-----------------­
Any oneway or local rental card rate with this COUPON! 
Offer good through June 30,1983 at 2715 N Bendix Drive, South Bend. 
--------.--------------­
RYDERTRUCKRENTAL 
2715N. BENDIX DR South Bend 
i 
I 
I f 
t 
l 
I 

Washington promises unified leadership 
CHICAGO (AP) -Harold Wash­ington promised an "open-handed, healing" administration yesterday as Chicago's first black mayor, but his defeated Republican opponent snubbed a promised unity luncheon and left for a Florida vacation. 
Bernard Epton, bitter over losing his quest to be the city's first Republican mayor in 52 years, of­fered no concession. He dispatched his brother to the reconciliation 
, meeting, breaking a pledge made on election eve to attend, win or lose. The election of Washington, a two-term Democratic congressman, was hailed by several of the nation's other black big-city mayors and na­tional Democrats, who had rallied to his side as many Chicago party regulars defected to Epton. "It will stir up the hopes of black voters," said former United Nations ambassador Andrew Young, the second black to serve as mayor ofAt· 
• • . Haley 

PUBLIC NOTICE. • .STEREO LIQUIDATION  
California Stereo Liquidators, Federal No. 95-35310.37, will dis­pose of, for a manufacturer's reprPsentative, their inventory surplus of NEW stereo equipment. The items listed below will be sold on a first-come first-served basis while quantities last! HOLIDAY INN Friday, April 15, 1983 515 Dixie Way, South Bend, IN 5:00 pm to 10:00 pm  
Disposal Value Price 5 AM/FM Cassette ONLY Car Stereos. In-Dash $159 $29ea.  Disposal Value Price 22 PR. Triaxial Car Speakers ONLY (Round) Giant Mags $ 89 $39pr.  
5 AM/FM S-Track ONLY Car Stereos. In-Dash $139 $29ea.  20 PR. Triaxial Car Speakers ONLY (6 x 9) Giant Mags $119 $49pr.  
18 Graphic Equalizers ONLY for Car. High Wattage $159 $39ea.  10 AM/FM Cassette-Built-in ONLY Equalizer & Auto Reverse $299 $J39ea.  
20 Cassette Car ONLY Stereos. Vnderdash $ 75 $25ea.  23 PR. 2-Way Car Speakers, ONLY Dual Cone $ 49 $J9pr.  
20 Graphic Equalizers ON_LY for Car. High Wattage $175 $59ea.  10 AM/FM In-Dash Cas-ONLY settes for Small Cars $225 $89ea.  
30 AM FM Cassette Car ONLY Stereos In-Dash $189 $59eo.  22 AM/FM Cassettes for ONLY Car with Auto Reverse $225 $89eo.  
8 PR. Modular: 4-Way Speakers ONLY for Car (High-Power) $179 $89pr.  25 Graphic Equalizer ONLY for Car, High Wattage $215 $89ea.  
. ALL BRAND NEW MERCHANDISE WITH FULL 2-YEAR WARRANTIES Buy one or all of the above quantities listed-The Public is Invited! VISA, MASTERCARD, CASH or PERSONAL CHECKS WELCOME ONE DAY ONLY FRIDAY, APRIL 15 ONLY WHILE QUANTITIES LAST!  

continuedfrom page 1 
letters for the girls oftheir dreams. 
Haley would set up shop in the mess tent and his "clients" would file in, providing descriptions and special pointers. "I had to clean up a lot ofwhat they said," Haley joked. 
After retiring from the Coast Guard, Haley began writing for such magazines as Reader's Digest and Playboy, where he became head in­terviewer. One of the people he in­terviewed for Playboy was Malcolm X, and that relationship led to Haley's autobiography of the famed black activist. 
The impetus for Roots began around 1965 when, on impulse, Haley went into the National Ar­chives and found the names of his ancestors in the census records. This !anta. 
A black civil rights leader said it indicated renewed black interest in the political process. 
Some Democrats who bolted in the election remained on the sidelines, but Alderman Roma Pucin ski, who had supported Epton, promised to work with Washington. Pucinski said the way the new mayor conducts his administration would 
be  key  to  allaying  fears  among  
whites.  
The  60-year-old  Washington  

captured virtually unanimous black support but won the backing ofonly 18 percent of white voters, accord­ing to an Associated Press-WMAQ­TV poll of voters leaving polling places. He said people are "a little 
tired" of the tensions that surfaced in his contest with Epton and promised to move swiftly to bring the city together. 
discovery initiated the long years of 
research to trace the history of the 
maternal side of his family . 
"That was the first bite for me of the geneological bug," Haley said. "It's something from which y~u can never be cured. It just goes on and on." 
Haley said the key to the wide reception ofRoots is that it is a book about the family. In his travels, he has discovered a world-wide inter­est in tracing family history. Recent­ly, on trips to such places as Dublin, Ireland and Hamberg, Germany, he has discovered a new interest among Europeans to find family members in the United States. He sees this interest as the next trend in geneology. 
Mandatory: 
I Pre • Law Meeting 
for Juniors 

Thurs., .fipril14 7:OOpm 
Library Auditorium Application information packets available 


-~----~ 

The Observer Thursday, April 14, 1983 -page 5 
Democrats prevailing 

House freeze battle contin1ues 
WASHINGTON (AP) -With plenty of votes to spare, the House yesterday rejected efforts to dilute a nuclear freeze resolution labeled "a formula for permanent insecurity" by President Reagan. 
House Democratic leaders remained confident of victory over the largely symbolic call for a "mutual and verifiable" halt in the arms race. But the chamber's slow progess suggested a final vote might still be several days off. 
By a 229 to 190 vote, the Democratic-run chamber rejected a major modification proposed by Rep. Elliot H. Levitas, D-Ga., that would have permitted older nuclear weapons to be replaced by newer ones in lieu ofa flat freeze. In the wake of that test, Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, D-Mass., said the resolution "won quite easily" despite furious lobbying by the president and ranking officers of his Cabinet. But a welter ofother amendments still stood in the way of a final vote. Many were filed by Republicans and defense-minded conservative Democrats who claim the proposal, although nonbinding, could un­dermine the president's ability to negotiate with the Soviet Union. "If we don't finish it today, we'll finish it next week ...We've got plenty oftime," O'Neill said. Levitas told the House his "strategic build-down" proposal, which suggested that two old war­heads be retired for each new one produced, would give the president more flexibility. But freeze proponent Rep. Ed­ward J. Markey, D-Mass., called the Levitas proposal "just a public rela­tions cover for the arms build-up the Reagan administration wants." The Levitas amendment was viewed by both sides as a key vote, perhaps the best chance freeze op­ponents would have to modify the proposal to make it more to the ad-
Olympics looks for volunteers 
ByRENEFOY 
News Staff 
Volunteers are needed for the an­nual St. joseph's County Special Olympics. joe Kernan, spokesper­son for the Special Olympics com­mittee, asked for student support during a Saint Mary's government meeting last night. 
Kernan said volunteers are needed to collect donations for the larger Special Olympics that will be held this summer. 
St. Joseph's County will host over 350 handicapped children from this area for the preliminary round ofthe special sporting events. The second round of competition will include 
children from several other counties. St. joe also will be hosting these games. 
Only 90 children from St. joe County will be allowed to par­ticipate in the state finals because of a new rule on the number of par­ticipants allowed. Because of this, St. joe's Special Olympics committee has decided to allow more par­ticipants in the area games. This means more funds are needed, said Kernan. 
A door-to-door campaign is scheduled for April 30 to collect funds for the event. The committee hopes to enlist the help of '50 volunteers to help collect the addi­tional 25,000 dollars for the larger 
meet. 
The Saint Mary's student govern­ment has agreed to give its full sup­port to the project. Sign-ups will begin next week in the dining hall and LeMans lobby. 
ministration's liking. I 2 hours ofdebate failed to produce 
O'Neill suggested that freeze a final vote. 
leaders would be able to fend off all President Reagan, in a letter read 
other major amendments -includ­during House debate, said the freeze 
ing a proposal by Rep. Mark D. Siljan-proposal would "hinder, not help" 
der, R-Mich, endorsing the efforts to reduce the risk of nuclear administration's insistence on war. reductions ofU.S. and Soviet nuclear But Rep. Clement J Zablocki, D­arsenals before consideration of a Wis., chairman of the Foreign Affairs freeze. panel and chief author of the freeze 
The chamber first took up the resolution, defended the document legislation last month, but leaders as a move to help "restore· stability ordered it put aside after more than and sanity" in the world. 
---------------------------­
Lech W alesa questioned about underground meeting 
GDANSK, Poland (AP) -Lech 
Walesa, chief of the outlawed 
Solidarity labor federation, was 
seized and interrogated by police for 
nearly five hours yesterday about a 
clandestine meeting with under­
ground union leaders. 

"As a free man, I have a right to meet with anyone, even criminal elements, so long as the meeting has no criminal intent," Walesa told reporters after he returned to his apartment in the early evening. 
Walesa, who disclosed Tuesday he had met with the Soldarity under­ground over the weekend, said he was too tired to discuss the police interrogation and would hold a news conference next Wednesday. 
Walesa's spokesman, Adam Kinas­zewski, said Walesa "didn't confirm or deny" to the police that he met with the Solidarity underground. "He simply refused to make any kind ofstatement (to police)." 
The Solidarity chief was seized about 2:45p.m. (7:45a.m. EST) and as police bundled him off in a red van for questioning, he yelled to reporters, "Tell the whole world they are breaking the law." 
Before Walesa's release, govern­ment spokesman Jerzy Urban issued a statement in Warsaw denying "the false information that Walesa has been arrested." But a spokesman for Walesa said officers armed with guns and threatening to use force did ar­rest him. 
It was the second time Walesa was detained since he was released from an 11-month martial law internment in November. He was picked up by police and driven around Gdansk for nine hours Dec. 16 to keep him from addressing a rally outside the Lenin shipyard, where Solidarity was born in August 1980. 
Under Polish law police may detain people for up to 48 hours without charge, a tactic they used of­ten in dealing with Walesa and other labor activists before the creation of Solidarity, the first independent uni­
on in the Soviet bloc. The labor federation was outlawed in October. 
Walesa, interviewed briefly at his Gdansk apartment Tuesday night, refused to disclose details of his meeting with Solidarity's under~ ground Temporary Coordinating Commission, which includes five fugitive union leaders. 
Walesa said Tuesday he expected the underground to issue a policy statement soon, apparently based on the weekend meeting, but that it would not bear his signature. 


~l.vtn7)1 
7
<. t>;,,

PKA 
5'0' •.% 





Full ~A~.i 
Contact Karate 
~MAIN EVENT~ 
Earnest Htart Jr. 3 Time World Champion vs. Eric "Mad Dog" Jones 8th Rated in the World 
~ SPECIAL APPEARANCE~ 
Bill "Super Foot" Wallace Retired Undefeated Champ Star of A Force of One 
~PLUS~ 
Exciting Demonstration by 
Notre Dame TaeKwonDo Club 
~TICKETS~ 
Students & Sibs $3.00 in advance at Ace Box Office Box Office Closes at 5:00 PM Friday 
Friday April15 8:00Pm Doors Open at 7:00 Pm 
TheN. D. Student Union Presents .... 


ffiiKE DALY 
CHAUTAUQUA 
SATURDAY, APRIL 16 9:30-12:30 ADMISSION: $1.00 \ 
~\"\~\.'(. 

•""'~' \0 
~,o '*'' 
,~,~ aoJ·Y" ~\to«' a. \ \S9 
~,es c~ 

··~"e 


AN TOSTAL '83 
"A Week of Fun & Absurdity!"
i THE DATING GAME 1A chance not only to embarass yourself ~ but to get a real date as well. 
I

~ call Ann at 3680 for details ~ DAISY SALE! I "Say it with posies" 
I 

I 
-~~·
I On sale in the dining halls at dinner TODAY and next week. 
ITUCK-IN MEETINGj 7 PM TONIGHT LaFortune Rm. 2-D 
I
~z 
. -·~·-~-·~--------~-~­
., 
The Observer Thursday, April14, 1983-page 6 
Increase non-defense spending 
Recent work by Tamera Mams etchings and 
Bruce Habicht sculpture 
Isis Gallery 
lrd floor West. Art Building gallery hours 10 • 12. 1 -3 MTWF 
THE DEPARTMENT OF ART, ART HISTORY AND DESIGN 
Degree programs: 

B.A. in Studio Art, Art History and Industrial Design 
B.F.A. in Studio Art and Industrial Design 
Elective Courses and Complete Programs in: Ceramics-Pottery and Ceramic Sculpture; Fibers-Weaving and Papermaking; Product Design and Advertising; Painting-Watercolor, Oil, etc.; Photography-Black and White and Color, ect.; Sculpture-Wood, Metal, etc.; Art History 
For more information about our degree programs or electives please contact the Department Office, 132 O'Shaughnessy orcall239-7602. 



Senate committee revamps budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Still ahead was a decision on pos­over five years, the committee sup­Republican-controlled Senate sible tax increases, yet another area ported cuts of 514 billion. Aides said Budget Committee sheathed Presi­where aides said the panel was likely that makes it unlikely Congress will dent Reagan's budget knife on to override Reagan. approve Reagan's plan to increase welfare,· food stamps and other key The committee was expected to hospital costs for many Medicare social programs yesterday as it complete work on its tax and spend­patients in exchange for a new tentatively crafted an overall spend­ing blueprint late yesterday and program of catastrophic health in­ing program containing 512.7 bil­today. Some aides cautioned, surance. lion more than he wants for though, that a majority of the panel -It rejected Reagan's proposed non-defense items. might reject the emerging plan cuts in welfare, food stamps and sub­
In contrast, the same panel had entirely if the deficit became too sidized housing. The president slashed his defense buildup by one­large. wanted to trim food stamps by 51.1 half in a lopsided vote last week. The latest decisions were all put billion, claiming that could be saved 
The committee left welfare, food together by Sen. Pete V. Domenici, from "waste and corruption.''.But a stamps and subsized housing the New Mexico Republican who Congressional Budget Office study programs virtually unscathed, and chairs the committee, and embraced issued earlier yesterday said such a slowed his cutbacks in Medicare, by both sides. Republicans hold a cut, in a program now costing S 12 Medicaid and other health programs 12-10 majority. billion, would fall upon the nation's considerably. And instead of a one­Details include: poorest families. year freeze on federal pay, it voted -Instead of Reagan's proposed -The panel voted to reject for a 6-month delay of the next $31 billion reductions in Medicare, entirely Reagan's call for revision of boost. Medicaid and other health programs the Civil Service retirement system. 
' Kenneth L. Aldeman 

Senate debates Reagen nominee 
WASHINGTON (AP) -While tee, one option available to the op­he said. "No further hearings are President Reagan and his high com­position. going to be held." mand lobbied by telephone, Senate The committee voted nine to opponents of Kenneth L Adelman's eight against endorsing the Adelman Opponents said if they decide to nomination as arms control director nomination on Feb. 24. Then, in or­offer an amendment to send the asserted yesterday that his selection der to get the issue to the Senate, the nomination back to the committee, raises doubt about the administra­panel voted 14 to 3 to send the it would most likely be today, the tion's commitment to curb the nomination to the Senate floor with day the full Senate is scheduled to nuclear race. a recommendation that it be vote on the nomination. 
Supporters of the embattled rejected. nominee said they had the votes to Sen. Charles H. Percy, R-Ill., chair­A poll by The AP showed 48 gain confirmation by a narrow mar­man of the Foreign Relations Com­senators in favor of Adelman's con­gin when the Senate votes today. An mittee, said he would strongly firmation or leaning toward voting Associated Press survey showed oppose the tactic to recommit the for him, 38 against and 14 un­
they were dose. nomination to the committee. decided. One of the 14, Sen. Robert Supporters also claimed the "What in heaven's name would be Packwood, R-Ore., will not be strength to defeat'any effort to kill accomplished by that?" asked Percy, present for the vote today because the nomination by returning it to the an Adelman supporter. "Nothing is he is attending a Republican con­Senate Foreign Relations Commit-going to happen in the committee," ference in his home state. 

THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION IS PROUD TO PRESENT THE 25th ANNIVERSARY OF THE 



NOTRE DAME 

TICKETS &TIMES 

7:30PM Friday (features Judge's Jam) ....•. $5.00 
1:00 PM Saturday ....................... $3.00 
6:30 PIVI Saturday ....................... $4.00 All Session Pass (ND;SMC) ............... $7.50 Reduced Prices for Lil' Sibs with registration card. Tickets sold at S.U. Record Store and at the door. 
Friday April15 and Saturday April16 Stepan Center 
Judges for this year's festival are 

Ron Carter, Tony Williams, Wynton Marsalis, Branford Marsalis, Jim McNeely, and Dan Morgenstern. 
Also featuring bands from 

Eastman School of Music, Loyola University of New Orleans, Northeastern Illinois, Ohio State and Many other schools. 

,----~-._-. 
-----------------, 
Thursday, April 14, 1983 -page 7 


Editorials 
Mayoral race lacked imagination 
Let's not kid ourselves. The campaign for mayor ofChicago involved one issue, and one issue only. Race. Neither candidate espoused new, different, or imaginative ideas on how to better govern the city. In fact, the two men spoke ofnothing b11t race. 
Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 

It was, fqr the most part, the kind of racial attack that is easily defended by the guilty party: 
"I would never dream of saying, as some have, that my opponent is a vile, disgusting child molestor." 
"I have no comment on the reports that my opponent was locked up in an insane asylum for the good ofthe community." 
"I find it hard to believe that my opponent hates black-white people." 
The first charge "came from the camp of Republican Bernard Epton, the second from that of Mayor-elect Harold Washington. The third came from both camps. Again and again. 
The Chicago media did a creditable job of weeding out the fact and the fiction. In fact, the Tribune printed an article that simply listed fact and fiction, and the difference be­tween the two. 
Tuesday night, Epton a<:cused the media of setting the racial tone of the campaign. But I would argue that the newspapers and broad­cast stations merely reported what both camps were turning out for public consump­tion. 
Investigations into Washington's tax his­tory and credit rating were not anti-black smear jobs. Thev were efforts to set the record straight -a record that Epton and his suppor­ters had done their best to distort. 

Stories about Epton's shaky voting record in the state legislature, and reports of his psyc­hiatric counseling were not biased slander from liberal journalists. They were honest ef­forts at uncovering the truth -a commodity all-too-hard-to-find in the campaign. 
Epton's suggestions on election night that the media elected Washington, and were un­fair to the Republican, were nothing more than the whining of a sore loser. Granted, a Sun-Times columnist said in a Tuesday column that he was voting for Washington. But that did not warrant an outburst of anger from Epton. The same column told of his unanimous support ofa struggling black man, and made a strong statement against those that called Epton a racist. 
Throughout the campaign, Chicago media outlets struggled long and hard to keep from falling into the trap of racism. The diligence paid off. Overall, they did a commendable job ofsorting out truth from fiction, slander from justifiable criticism, and allegation from ac­cusation in a campaign in which the conduct ofboth nominees was, at times, reprehensible. 
It says a great deal more about the can­didates than it does about the men and women that covered their race for city hall when one recounts the story of Epton's reac­tion to a story last week. 
It was after one article that was not very supportive of the Republican's campaign that Epton suggested a reporter "go back to Rus­sia" where he and other members ofthe press "belong." 
I sincerely doubt that the Soviets would welcome such narrow-minded, childish men any more than we do. Unfortunately, we are stuck with them. 
Sweet mystery ofadvertising: Does it sell? 
The Doyle Dane Bernbach ad agency, which is responsible for some of the classic advertisements of modern times (Volkswagen, Avis, Alka-Seltzer, Polaroid, Chivas Regal), was fired recently by the Israel Tourist Office after more than 20 years of servicing the account. 
Milton Moskowitz 
Business Today 

It was never much of an account, from the standpoint ofsize, but now that the Israelis are ready to spend some money -52 million this year -the business has gone to another agency, Needham, Harper & Steers. 
In the agency business, there are no con­tracts for life. Needham, Harper & Steers, the winner of the Israeli tourist account, was stunned at the end of 1981 when it was fired by McDonald's after 10 years of award-winning advertisements. The McDonald's ac­count is now handled by the Leo Burnett agency, from whose ateliers we get ads for Marlboro cigarettes, Kellogg's Corn Flakes and United Airlines. 
Accounts move about all the time. The Coors beer advertising is about to move from Ted Bates, creator of those majestic commer­cials for Rolaids, to Foote, Cone & Belding, the hand behind the advertising for Fritos, Levi's jeans and Clairol hair coloring. And). Walter Thompson has just been fired off the Kawasaki motorcycle account, the Kawasaki people being understandably unhappy about its two­wheeler falling to fourth place in the American market. 
J. Walter Thompson does the Ford ads. Kawasaki moved its 55 million account to Kenyon & Eckhardt, which does the Chrysler advertising. 

The Israelis are also unhappy about falling "sales." It seems the Israeli government feels the country didn't far•e too well in the American media coverage of the war in Lebanon. That coverage may have convinced some Americans that the Israelis are blood­thirsty mUitarists. On top of that, tourism to Israel was down 12 percent last year. 
The Israelis asked Doyle Dane to come up with a new campaign to improve the image of Israel in America. The agency that created the warm James Garner-Mariette Hartley com­mercials for Polaroid couldn't come up with an approach that satisfied the Israelis. So they moved the account to Needham, Harper & Steers, which beginning May 1 will start beaming a campaign at you geared to the theme, "Come to Israel, come stay with 
friends." 
One .ad, for example, will show an Israeli cab uriver saying: "The tourists asked me to take them to the best restaurant in town -so I took them to my house." 
Zvi Rimon, an Israeli tourist official, told Advertising Age's correspondent in Tel Aviv: "We hope to fight the American media with its own weapons." 
It's touching to see this mystical faith in the efficacy of advertising even by government bureaucrats trying to influence public opinion. If advertising is so effective, how come accounts are always changing hands? 
Research studies indicate that the most well-remembered advertising of 1982 was the Miller beer campaign. Yet Miller's beer sales were down one million barrels last year. 
Another one of the most well-remembered campaigns was the "Be a Pepper" commer­cials for Dr Pepper, executed with great flair by Young & Rubicam, the nation's largest ad agency. Yet Dr Pepper came out of 1982 with a 58 percent decline in profits and the com­pany all but conceded that its award-winning ads did not convert cola drinkers to Dr Pep­per. 
There is, of course, always one sure-fire remedy for falling sales: fire the advertising agency. 
Copyrigh( 19tH. Los Angde~ Times Syndicate 

P. 0. BoxQ 
Sensitivity for rape victims 
DearEditor: 
I would like to respond to Mary Fllen Ster­nitzke's letter, "Male myths about rape," by adding my personal reflections. 
As a woman, I have felt the everpresent fear of rape. When I walk across campus alone at night I am aware ofmy vulnerability. I have refrained from engaging in many ac­tivities independently out of fear of undue risk. 

My own fears and precautions, however, hardly compare to what I have observed as a volunteer for the Sex Offense Staff, a local rape crisis center. Through my work, I have seen the suffering rape intlicts upon its vic­tim. The rapist leaves the victim feeling dirty, guilty, insecure, and fearful for her own life--with haunting memories never to be forgotten. After working with these people. it is hard to imagine a crueler way to victimize women in our culture. 
Yet, I still hear people blaming the victim; I still hear them confusing rape with "sex"; I still hear them saying "real rape" is rare. In fact, recently I was speaking to a peer (female) about the New Bedford gang rape and was taken back by her response. After hearing the description of the episode, she responded, "There has to be more to it ... what about the woman7 What did she do?" Her interpretation of the situation is clear: the woman's actions become the focal point, while the violent, brutal actions of the four men are casually dismissed. 
Thus, while I am witnessing and feeling the intense realitv and pain inflicted by rape, I am simultancou~ly hearing the detrimental myths which surround this crime. This dis­crepency must be lessened, in turn heightening our awareness and sensitivity to the reality of rape. 
Li/J• Raymond 


·­

IheJJ~er======~==~ 
Box Q, Notre Du111t!, L\' 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, .and the free expression ofvaryingopinionson.campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic SaintMary's Editor...............Anne Monastyrski Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe SportsEditor .............................Michael Riccardi ExecutiveEditor..............................Paul McGinn ~ature!f Editor.......... .,.. .............. Sarah Hamilton , News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Productlonl'Graphtcs...........Joseph Musumeci News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower 
DepartmentManagers 
Business Manager ........................ Daniel O'Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager...................... : ....Bruce Oakley AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen FoundFd November 3, 1966 
~r~------~-~7·--------------------~-~--------~~-------~------~------~-~~--­
-------------·-----------·-­
The Observer Thursday, April 14, 1983 -page 8 
an unusual 

Leslie Ann Cole, 28, returns home to Bethlehem, Pa., ajter a federal judge in Baltimore ruled that she should befreed from the Navy and receive an honorable discharge as a conscientious objec­
tor. Cole was accompanied by her mother as she left court. 
Remodeled at a cost of $352,000, the center provides 11,000 square feet of space for several facilities, including a hospitality room for in­formal discussions; a resource room in which visual accounts of center programs are displayed; a multi­purpose area for lectures, films and large meetings; a reading room furnishing books, periodicals, papers, and audio-visual material for justice education; a reflection room for liturgies and private prayer; and several seminar rooms and offices for center administration. 
A variety of center-sponsored films, slide shows, lectures and semi­
• • . Nouwen 
• • . Ground Zero 
continuedfrom page I 
U.S. must try to better understand' the Russians -'Who are these people?' 
"Americans believe they can win a nuclear war. Only being informed about the Russians and the nuclear threat can change that," she said. 
In addition to Firebreaks, Ground Zero is sponsoring two speakers and four movies during April. Cynthia Watson, government doctoral can­didate, will speak on "Nuclear Proliferation in the Third World" tonight at 7:30 in the Hayes -Healy Auditorium. Foreign Policy Expert Art Brinkley gave a lecture on "Foundations of Soviet Policy" last Tuesday. 
The movies to be shown later in the month include: On the Beach (April 25 ); George Kennan: A Criti­
nars exa,mine issues inciuding nuclear armament, world hunger, Third World development, and race relations. The center's academic courses -"Theology and Com­munity Service" and "Reflections on Service" -encourage students to 
see opportunities for theological in­sight in their social service and analysis opportunities. 
The director of the center is Father Don McNeill. Kathleen Weigert and Sister Judith Anne Beattie are the center's assistant directors. There is also a part-time staff including several University faculty alumni and students. 
cal Voice (April 26); I Live in Fear (April 28); and Dr. Strangelot'e (April 29). 
"Through the movies we want to give a general idea of what could be done during a nuclear situation," said Goulet. "Like the other events in April, they (the films) are geared toward informing the public." 
A weeklong event last year, the Ground Zero effort expanded to a month this year under Molander's leadership. Goulet is optimistic that the Ground Zero month will con­tinue as an annual event at Notre Dame. "It's time to go beyond the (nuclear) freeze," she said. "The freeze was a moral stance. You have to be informed -informed in a de_eper sense -as to why you took that stance." 




ATTENTION ALL Graduating Students 

Measurements will be taken for 

Caps and Gowns 
Tuesday Apri/19, 1983 and Wednesday Apri/20, 1983 Between 9:00 and 4:00 at the 


Notre Dame Bookstore 



Frudom at Midnight, Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre, Avon Books, New York, 1975, 563 pages, S4.95 
emotional as the latest toaster update in Consumer Reports and just as exciting. The plot could be quite interestingbut it gets bogged down in a quagmire thick­er than the most threatening NewJersey swamp. 
Muffin is the fourth in a seriesofspy novels with this middle-aged man as the key figure. In this novel, the FBI wishes to flush out a Mafia overlord, Guisseppe Terrilli, who happens to be a fanatical philatelist (stamp collec­tor for you engineers). It sponsors an exhibition ofthe a pot luck disastt:r. The only real action occurs in the last five pages ofthe book. The preceding 195 follow Muffin and the main FBI operative, Jack Pendlebury, as they fly from New York to Washington to Palm Springs, ad infinitum, while the expectant reader hurries to the next page to see ifthey get jet lag. 

But the boring and tedious plot is the least ofthis novel's glaring deficiencies. The "hero," Muffin, pos­sesses such unheroic traits that it is impossible for the reader to identify with him at all unless you happen to be a former member of the Nazi SS. Among Muffin's more stellar achievements include planting a bomb on an airplane carry1ing 50 CIA agents as an act ofrevenge, and orchestrating the deaths ofseveral FBI agents (remember, he's supposed to be one ofthe good guys). He is brave, but only in situations where his own sur­vival is at stake. He is a gruff, middle-aged loner, perhaps a more realistic character than James Bond, but realism doesn't have to be boring. 
Freemantle, who wrote for three London dailies as a foreign correspondent, cheats the reader unmercilessly inMuffin. It's a spy thriller with no real hero, no beauti­ful women (yes, I am a chauvinist), little action and even less imagination. 
Brian, go back to reporting. 

SERVICES: wGit fot the movie 
T
here are some things which one simply doesn't do: transfer from Harvard to Podunk State, trade in a new BMW for a rusty VW bug, and switch from Robert Ludlum's thril­lers to the James Bond literary car­toons. In all three cases, one gives up a certain sense ofintensity and quality for something that will be a cheap thrill until it becomes a bore. 
Nevertheless, I did indeed recent­ly take up the latestJames Bond 

Nick LaFlamme 
thriller, For Special Services byJohn Gardner. It was out ofcuriosity as much as anything else; I had a free weekend and I hadn't read anyJames Bond in a while, either the original Bond ofIan Fleming or the new Bond ofGardner. Just how would Gardner write his second novel star­ring another author's character? 
Unfortunately, Gardner still seems to be trying to prove his worthiness as a successor to Fleming. He floods the book with details of Bond's past escapades and habits, with his idea of what Bond would use today, and in what kind of world Bond would operate. He is so wrapped up in proving his technical worthiness that he doesn't bother to build up either a plausible plot or a credible dialogue. 
The plot is simple enough. After Bond learns that hi~ olu nemesis, Spectre. may be operating again, he is sent to America to investigate a mysterious, reclusive American multi-millionaire. Apparently for security reasons Bond is told to work with no backups and only an American deep-cover agent as a con­tact. From the author's point ofview, this eliminates many confusing scene changes, since we stay almost always with Bond. On the other 
hand, it also eliminates a lot of plausibility; shouldn't Bond have 
some super powerful radio in his 
shoe heel to call in the Marines 
when he gets clobbered, as he in­
variably does? Instead, he's left to 
save himself in true superhero form 
before saving the world. 
The plot is also simplified by the fact that most ofthe story occurs on a Texas ranch ofover a hundred square miles which is '-!_eM:ribed as a fiefdom. This does add a touch ofthe exotic, certainly a Bond trademark, but it seems a little more implausible than usual. 
My biggest problem with the book, though, was Gardner's un­even, awkward style. Perhaps it's just because Gatdner is neither English nor American, (he's Irish), but so many phrases or words just seemed wrong, as in," Wait a sec -" Why'd he write it that way? That does tend to ruin the flow ofa story ... Gardner also tended to cut dialogue short with a simple sum­mary statement. When an author writes fifteen lines ofdialogue, one wonders why he doesn't add the one last line. This, too. tends to ruin any continuity in the story. 
There is one saving grace: this will almost surely become a good Bond movie, should Albert Broccoli decided he's milked Ian Fleming ab­solutely dry. It's as ifGardner decided "By Eire, I'll not have them fooling with by plot. It'll be crying out to be done in the way I'm leading. Let them fiddle with the details I didn't touch, but they won't dare fiddle with the skeleton I laid down." However, this leaves a sparse book, even if it is three hundred pages long. 
Perhaps I am too critical. Perhaps there are those who'd hate the mul­tiple levels ofdeceit ofa book by LeCarre or Ludlum but who would love Gardner's Bond. On the other hand, I suspect that eventbey would be dismayed by this follow-up to License Renewed, Gardner's first Bond novel. For· Special Services is certainly not for everyone, and may not be for very many at all. Ifin doubt, wait for the inevitable movie. I wish I had. 

GHRNDI:~ teGd the book 
I 
t is often said that the books from which motion picture screenwriters receive their inspiration (as well as their Oscar nominations) are more satisfying than their cinematic counterparts. I have not observed long, winding lines ofclamoringcrowds waiting to purchase a copy of Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre's Freedom at Midnight, nevertheless, I maintain that their account of the Gandhi years is much more introspective and accurate than the version which Richard Attenborough presents in his award-winning film, Gandhi. 
Before you bombard me with accusations such as, "Ifyou didn't like Gandhi, then why did you want it to win Best Picture?" allow me to plead my case. In my opinion, the movie represents a tremen­dous effort on the part of its producerI director Richard Atten-

Carol Camp 
borough, and actor Ben Kingsley, who turned in a stellar 
performance in the title role. Equally impressive were the efforts to 
preserve the story's 'geographic and historical accuracy; Gandhi is 
an epic in the tradition ofsuch classics as Gone With the Wind and 
Lawrence ofArabia. 
Then, considering my passion for Rhett Butler, Gone With the 
Wind, and epics ofany kind, why do I maintain that Collins and 
Lapierres' presentation of the Gandhi legend is superior to Atten­
borough's film? 
The reason is a simple one:Freedom atMidnight givesall sidesof 
the British-Indian conflict equal representation, which Atten­
borough fails to do. My major point ofcontention with Gandhi is 
that although it was produced and directed by an Englishman, the . only perspective which the audience receives is that ofGandhi's 
sect. After World War II, several factions bidded for control oflndian 
affairs, as the British were forced to acknowledge the inevi.able dis­
solution oftheir vast empire. Ironically, the roles ofthe architects of 
a divided India (Nehru,Jinnah, and British Viceroy Louis Mountbat­
ten) are downplayed significantly. Attenborough fails to present his 
audience with all of the puzzle's missing pieces, because only 
Gandhi's vehement opposition to the separatist movement oflndia's 
Moslem minority is presented. 
In contrast, Collins and Lapierre present the complex and often 
confusing set ofcircumstances which resulted in the end of British 
rule and the creation ofan independent India and Pakistan with 
amazing clarity and accuracy. The differences between the Hindu 
and Moslem religions are described in detail, and the correlation be­
tween religious intolerance and the political strife during this era in 
India's history. For those ofus whose theological background is woe­
fully inadequate, Collins and Lapierre's assistance in this respect is 
invaluable. 
Unfortunately, Attenborough did not choose to follow the 
authors' lead in this respect. In Gandhi, Attenborough assumes that 
his audience has prior knowledge ofthe basic tenets ofeach religion, 
and the problems that religious diJierences presented to India's 
political leaders. This discrepancy between the two accounts 
became even more apparent to me Monday night as I viewed the film 
clips of the "Best Picture" nominees. In the Gandhi excerpt, the 
Mahatma tells a young Moslem father who has murdered a Hindu in 
retaliation for his own daughter's death that he must adopt an or­
phaned Hindu child and raise him as his own flesh and blood ifhe is 
to be forgiven for the crime which he has committed. IfI had not 
read Freedom atMidnight before seeingGandhi, the impact ofthat 
scene upon me would have been lessened significantly. 
Overall, Freedom atMidnight provides the insight into the _cir­
cumstances surrounding the birth ofthe Indian nation that Gandbi 
cannot. If given the choice, I would gladly sacrifice a large bucket of 
hot buttered popcorn in order to stay at home curled up in an easy 
chair with a cup ofhot tea and a copy ofFreedom atMiidnigbt in 
1 
hand. 
l 
' 



~~()11tS=~==,..==i=e~S========*======================Th=u=rs=da=y=,A=p=ri=II=4=,I=9=83===P=ag=e=I=o
By The Obseroer and The Associated Press 
The Stepan Centerrecreation program officially ended on Tuesday. Stepan is now closed for volleyball and basketball for the rest ofthe semester. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will 
present Bob and Karen Gajda Sunday in the Center for Social Con­cerns. Bob was the 1965 Mr. USA, the 1966 Mr. America, 1967 Mr. Universe, and served as the strength coach for the 1980 U.S. Olympic volleyball team. His wife Karen is a two-time national powerlifting champion and a one-time world champion. Admission is free for all Weightlifting Club members and $2 for non-members. Any ques­tions call Matt Kelleher at 1581. -The Observer 
James Reston a columnist for the New York Times will deliver the inaugural Red Smith Lecture in Journalism on Wednes­day, April 20 at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the American Studies department. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Clubwill hold a ride this Saturday. All interested riders should meet at the Lyons' basketball courts at 1:30. -The Observer 
The Los Angeles Raiderswere awarded s11.5 mil­lion yesterday in their anti-trust suit against the National Football League. The Coliseum received $4.8 million in the same law suit. The trial lasted 17 days, and the jury deliberated for 24 hours before finding the NFL guilty ofviolating federal anti-trust laws by blocking the Raider's move from Oakland in 1980. -AP 
Disappointments -every team faces its fair share of them during the course ofa season. Despite the glorious moments that make teams forget their disapointments, every team encounfers a period of frustration. This weekend was one such period for many Notre Dame club sports. 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL -An optimistic men's vol­leyball team travelled to Bowling Green, Ohio to par­ticipate in the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association's championship tournament. Ranked in first place in the league with a 55-17 record, the Irish an­tidpated their first championship in the tournament. Unfortunately, the Irish left the tournament disap­pointed with a second place finish after the host team, Bowling Green, defeated the Irish 15-9, 12-15 in the final round. 
Next week the Irish will host IUPU-Fort Wayne in their last home match of the season. IUPU narrowly defeated Notre Dame in their last contest and according to Gibson, the Irish plan to "wipe them off the: face of the earth." 
RUGBY -Notre Dame's rugby club lost two of the 
three games it played against the Lincoln Park Rugby 
club this weekend. The A and B teams dropped their 
games 0-3 and 6-12 respectively while the C team won 
its game 8-0. 
On Saturday, the Irish host Eastern Illinois University at 1p.m. behind the Stepan Center. This will be one of the last two games the Irish will play before the Mid­west championship tournament which will be held later this month. 
GYMNASTICS -The Notre Dame gymnastics club finished its season as it travelled to Purdue this weekend. Both the men's and women's teams dropped their matches leaving them with a 4-5 and a 6-6 season record respectively. 
WOMEN'S TRACK -Notre Dame's women's track team lost its meet against Hope College this weekend. The Irish did not expect a strong finish at this meet 
Volleyball, rugby try again 
Mary Sieger 
Sports Writer 
Club Corner 


since many ofthe runners did not accompany the team 
to Hope. 

"We ran in a typhoon," said club coach Brian Coniff. 
"Those were the worst racing conditions I've everseen 
-the wind literally blew our runners off the track." 
Coniff expects the team to do well at the Saint 
Joseph's relays next Monday at Saint Joseph's College. 
He believes his runners will be competitive and that the 
relays will prepare the team for the Little State meet on 
April 30th. 

SAILING -Notre Dame's sailing club captured fourth place at the Regatta held at Marquette University this weekend. The team is frustrated by the outcome of this Regatta and claims that it was poorly managed. 
"We plan to write a letter of protest to the Midwes­tern Collegiate Sailing Association in an attempt to get people to do a better job of hosting," said team capitan Chris Hussy. Hussy claims that a failure to rotated boats and inadequate identification of those boats may have led to Notre Dame's fourth place finish. 
Next weekend, the Irish sail against Xavier University and anticipate at least a fo t urth place finish in the Regat­ta "We expect some good competition and hopefully, a well run Regatta," said Hussy. 
ROWING-Not all of Notre Dame's club sports had disappointing weekends. The Notre Dame rowing club claimed seven first place finishes in nine events. The Irish competed against the University of Chicago, Northwestern Universiy and the Lincoln Park Atheletic Club. These teams are condidered some ofthe toughest competition the Irish will face this season. 
Classified office hours: Notre Dame -9 
a.m. to 4 30 p.m. Saint Mary's-noon to 3 p.m. Deadline for next-day service is 3 p.m. All ads must be prepatd, either tn person or through the matl. We reserve the nght to edit objectionable 
material.






Classifieds 

NOTICES 

TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
TYPING. Jackie Boggs. 684-8793. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST Will DO TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES CALL: 287-5162. 
Typing, my home. Expenenced 1n all phases of college 1yp1ng. 277-3085. 
EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL YEAR. FLEXIBLE HOURS. MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS ON CAMPUS. BONUS BASED ON AESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS WEll. 800-526-0883 
LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: Camp out this weekend, Apnl 16-17. Come Sat btwn. 9-9:30 Return Sunday by 3:00. Any quest1ons? Call E1teen 2986 or Mary 8067 See yo11 there at CAMP OUT for a GREAT TIME!!! 
$50 REWARD!!! Daniel Hechler black jac~etw1th red 1nside. lost in South Din~ng Hdll before Easter. Please call 277-2222. NO QUESTIONS. 
lost-Treasury cashiers check (ROTC). If f~und. please return to me so that I can gel the new one before next year. (It's bF.-c'n ccancelled). Please call 8332. 
iT-a gold cylindncal DIGITAL > l CH on Wed. 4-6-83. REWARD! If touod, please call Anne at 2968 
L03T: One Pa1r of Bronze/Brown metal framed GLASSES. lost 1n the VICinity of ST~NFORD lobby aHer the Mr Stanford Cc•• test on Fnday April 8 They have a ht9n senttmental value betng that wtthout ther1 I cannot see!! If found please call or retc:rn them to J1m at 8708-07. 329-30 ~tenford. (REWARD) 
LO!)T:_ IN Sen1or Bar last Satuday n~ght (··i9/83) a lightweight, navy blue Jacket w1th NOTRE DAME BAND 1n yellow on the 'Jack and NO BAND OF THE FIGHT· INCi IRISH on front If found (You'll know wr.•other rt belongs 1o you, or not) call 
JACK at 8876 or 8872. 
lost:navy blue athletic bag w/ :_, :·)ks.clothes.checkbook. F1nd any of dl·.ove items w/ Fnsmo 1d call Mike,287­4C>46. 
LCST: TWO SETS OF ROOM KEYS-­or-.E HAS THREE KEYS ON A CADILLAC RING. THE OTHER HAS R sJM KEYS. PLEASE CALL 1749 IF YOU HAVE A CLUE 
LOST. wallet lost Thurs. mte at campus v1ew-southern section park1ng tot No $$ was in it. but there 1s a reward offered for its return. Call M1ke 233-6068 if found please. 
LOST(?)· Whoever removed my rear license plate.NH,'DOMER from my 77 Dodge 1n D-2.please put it back or return 1t to 414 Keenan. My front plate was at­ready ·removed' so now I can't dnve my car. No quest1ons asked. 
LOST A white, After Six tuxedo jacket. freshly 'borrowed' from the Palmer House ballroom Saturday evening at the Sen1or Formal. Please return to 209 Alumni (1072) and no questions will be asked. 
LOST. Fnday 4/8/83 a white conan spnng blazer at a Flanner Happy Hr. If found please call Kathleen SMC-5536 
FOUND ON SOUTH QUAD: Cas10 five­function watch. Has 1n111als on the back Blue. 'NIIh silver watchband. Call Marty at 1022. 
HELP--Damselm distress! LOST A white Jacket at Lyons Court Monday n1ght at 8 00 p m. If found please call 7975 
I lost an Indoor/outdoor Spatdmg basket­ball at Stepan 3 on Tues. at about 4:30 The ball was brand spank1n· new and a g1H Please g1ve Pat a call at 8625 if you took the ball by m1stake or found 1t 
FOR RENT 
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all ut1ht1es 1nctuded June or Sept Call 319­322-8735 Pany 
902 N NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE. GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON HEAT $335/MONTH 684-0933 (lOCAl CALL) 
FREE RENT -House s1t for faculty mem­ber. summer. 319-322·8735 Pat 
2 bedroom. Furn1shed apt to sublet 4 summer Call 284-4429 
6 bedroom house 4rent comptetly furn1sed at 806 n st101us also secUI!y alarm system connected to pohce· for fur­
ther tnformatton call1 362· 7160 excellent condition pnce negot1abte 
Summer School? Apts. for Rent near N.D. Ut1ht1es Pd. less Gas ph 2720261 
SUMMER RENT-3 BDRM HOUSE. NEXT TO CAMPUS. CHEAP. CALL JOHN AT 8656 OR 8676 
4 BEDROOM HOUSE. GOOD SAFE AREA. FURNISHED. LIKE-NEW INTE­RIOR. $400/ mo. ut1l. MUST SEE. 287· 3530 Day. 233-9947 N1ght. 
1 bdrm. unfurnished. $160 mo. -summer sublet-must be marned student Call 3852. 
WANTED 
Wanted to sublet· two bedroom house/apt. from June 1 to Aug. 31 Call 232-1603 or 233-9872. Call aHer 5:00.p.m. 
Need nde to NORTHERN IlliNOIS UNIV. this weekend. call JODI at 284­5098 
AIDE NEEDED TO LANSING ON FRIDAY, APRIL 15 PLEASE CAll DAVIDAT1101 
GOING TO THE WINDY CITY THIS WEEEKEND? NEED A RIDER? I NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO THJS FRIDAY, COMING BACK SUNDAY. CAll TOM AT8737 
Motorcycle Look1ng to buy a used. but cared tor. tounng b1ke 650 cc mm Mtke at 8947 
WANTED Band lor hall party apr 21. W1ll neg. fees It Interested ca/1284-5266 
Need Rtde to Los Ange~s area atter ex­ams 10 May W1ll share usual. Must getto s1sters graduation. call TIM 6853 
Need A1ders to U of I. teav1ng ton1ght. call Pat 3498 
HELP' I need a nde to BALL STATE/MUNCIE thiS weeken~l! Will share gas! Please call .Ray at 2n-2531 
HELP' AIDE NEDED TO ROCHESTER OR VICINITY CAN GO ANY WEEKEND CALL TARA AT 7753 
WANTED: PUNK CLOTHES AND AC­CESSORIES FOR THEATRICAL PRODUCTION. WILL BEG. BORROW, OR STEAL-WE ARE TOO CHEAP TO BUY. CALL1684, AND ASK FOR HEAD LOONY. 
1 GOLDEN DOME hat OR mfo on how to get one · CAll MO SMC4412 
Wanted. One date before f1nats Call 284­5527 and speak to whoever answers 
FOR SALE 
USED. OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY­JEFFERSON INTERSECTION 
House for sale. Un1vers1ty He1ghts. 3 bedrooms. $12.000 total Immediate. Terms. 319·3228735. Pa1 For Sate: 73 Honda CB175. Rec'd TLC. New ba11ery, new rear t1re. 10,000 m1. Runs like new. 683-1122 (local) aHer 6 p.m. 

RALPH LAUREN SHIRTS (POLO) FOR $18? AVAILABLE FOR MEN AND WOMEN BY ORDER ONLY. CALL RAMON AT 8858 
STEREO SYSTEM. 7-wt Rece1ver Spkrs. LIKENEW$100Joel1794 
TICKETS 
NEED LOTS-0-TICKETS for graduation­-please call John 287-4225 
Please Helpt Need One LOWER ARENA TICKET for GRADUATION EXERCISES --Will trade one upper arena t1cket or Will buy. Please cull Debb1e at 234-7961 Thanks! 
PERSONALS 
EARN $5000 thiS summer pa1nt1ng houses m your hometown. Contact Place· ment 01f1ce for more info and application at Room 213. Adm. Bldg. 
THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM COMES TO 
NOTRE DAME!JI The Notre Dame Stu­
dent Players present the mag1c of MAN 
OF LA MANCHA. com1ng to the stage of 
Wast11ngton Hall on April 21 ,22, and 23 
at 8 p m Tickets go on sale Wednesday, 
April 13. at the Student Un~on t1cket 
oH1ce. ST Pnces are $3 50 1n advance 
and $4 at the door There are only three 
n1ghts th1s year. so get your tickets early: 
remember what happened to Cabaret 
llcketsl Don't miss the best show ofthe 
season-MAN OF LA MANCHAtill 
The Ark is comingI 

Get the Porn out of the llbranes' 
He's coming-to a theater near you: Tom Marshalek. Ugliest Man on Campus 
1983 

Chris Soha (atlas l--)for UMOC. 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS Do you have a pen and a sense of humor? THE OBSERVER is lookmg lor campus comic strips lor neKI year. Send examples of your strrp ideas tc: Managmg Editor, The Observer, P. 0. BoxQ. 
AUCTION Notre Dame Secunty Will be holding an auction on Sat11rday. Apnl 16. at t 1 am The auct1on w1il be held at Gate 11 of the Football Stad1um. Property to be auc­tioned Will Include b1cyctes. watches. and other miSCellaneous uncta1med found property 
lllSIBS lllSIBS lllSIBS lll SIBS lll 
SIBS lllSIBS lllSIBS lllSIBS 
BUY YOUR lllSIB A 
lllSIBS WEEKEND T-SHIRT 
ON SALE AT BOTH DINING HALLS 
DURING DINNER HOURS 
UNTIL FRIDAY COST IS $5.00 lll SIBS lllSIBS lll SIBS lll SIBS lll SIBS lllSIBS lllSIBS lllSIBS 
Are you an aspiring Charles Schultz, Gar­ry Trudeau. Jeb Cashin? Do you have un­discovered humorous artistic talenr just begging to grace the Today Page of The Observer? Would you like to be an Ob­server strip (In the comic sense) car­toonist? The Observer is looking for campus comic strips for neKI year. II you have the talent, we have the paper. Sub­mit examples to: The "Yes, I want to be rich and famous" cat1oon contest, Managing Editor, The Observer . P. 0. Box Q. Questions? Call Margaret, 239­
5313. 
MECHANICS QUIZ QUESTION 1: II a woodchuck could chuck wood, how much wood would a woodchuck chuck II the fri-:tlon 0.3 times the length of his teeth? 
that doesn·t even make sense 
Do you want to see "The Boneheads.. 1n The Observer every single day next year? If not. you better come up w1th a better com1c stn"p. The Observer IS 1ook1ng for new campus com1c stnps for next year Send examples of your talent to The Anything But the Boneheads Com1c Stnp Contest. Manag1ng Ed1tor. The Observer. P 0 Box Q, The Observer Questions? Call Margaret. 239-5313 
Beth Hackett for UMOCIIII 
COME PLAY QUARTERS AT ANTOS· TAL. MORE INFO COMING!!! 
SODOM ANDGOMORRAHI Party Saturday Night live Band (Nobis!) 1406 South Bend Avenue Be there ...everyone else will 
Thinking of going to the NUMBER ONE baseball town Is anyone Interested tn g01ng to ST. LOUIS for the weekend of Apnl22-24? I really need the nders. must celebrate my 21st 1n style Call D1ane at 7983. 
DearG1ff. You always know how to cheer me up. thanks a lot Love always. G1ff 
GUMBY YOUR NAMESAKE'S HISTORY UN­LESS YOU MEET OUR DEMANDS BE AT THE HUDDLE TONITE AT 10 00 WITH TWO DOUBLE DIP COFFEE AND TIN ROOF ICE-CREAM CONES 
THE WOLVES 
Are you an eager beaver for pleasure? If so. stop by 330 BP and share'" EILEEN "The Beav--QUEENAN's birthday celebration. Happy Birthday, E1! 
BEAUCOUP de BEAUCOUP RULES THE EARTH. meme s1ts sont des pet1ts gas 
The cat came back-See M1ke Daly. Sat 9:30, at Chautauqua. 
a) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY HUSSYI 

b) 
How about those flying F's 

c) 
When are we steeping on the quad? 

d) 
I guess it's just a horse of a different story 

e) 
Melon's playing with the alphabet again 

f) 
Been practicing your Domer Jines? 

g) 
Who cares about DeSmet?! 

h) 
Been partying with a chair on your head lately? 

I) 
Have a good one-LOVE MELON and KATHI 

I) 
p.s. Don't call us at 3:30am-we WON'T be homeII 


At 24 one m1ght say Your past your pnme and turntng grey I, of course, would say-Thts ts not so K Schwartz IS man from h1s head to hts toe But I even questiOned myself the other day When you sa1d you wanted to stay 1n and crochet But then I heard where you were party1ng at A place where real men· go the Pussycat Th1s remstated my f1rst beltef-that you·re jUSt beg1nn1ng to start To really entOY your hfe -and tha1 you re not an old tart So have a great b-day and remember too That 1ts your day-so go put down a few love. Melonhead. Meggars. & Julush 
MOLLY How about dnnks tonight? Rafferty s? Think 1t over Oh. and keep sm1lmg 
Thank you. loyal fnends of NEIGHBOR CRISIS CENTER. for your support dunng our Bookstore dem1se Tuesday! Thanks lor the cookies. Gay. but Marcta, did you have to g1ve Walsh those ra1s1ns? Anyway. N C. C. has resumed normal bus1nss hours. so WE WANT 10HELP 
IS THERE LIFE AFTER COMMENCE­MENT RETREAT FOR SENIORS THIS WEEKEND AT LAKE MICHIGAN 
FR. JOE CAREY BECAUSE OF CANCELLATIONS THERE ARE A FEW OPENINGS. CALL239-5242 
Hey Ed-WEEIJ! WEEIII WEEII! 


The Observer Thursday, April14, 1983-page 11 
Kevin Quinn .over Strapameyeron' by 13 But We Had A Good RecrU1t1ng Ye~r v. Oh, What The 

Second round continues 
Bookstore Tournament 
Yesterday's Results 

Stepan1 The Comb1ne Brothers & Assorted Mothers over Asp1r1n Man ..22-20 NEBO's IVoverThe2-A Team by 16 John Shoe & The Sneakers over Barney Clark & The Heart-Breakers by 11 T<lQUIIa White L1ghtmng Ill over The Good Ole· Boys by9 
Stepan2 Snow Her Your Love ...over T.R.'s .by 3 Slow. Wh1te& Can't Jump over Team #424 by 16 We're Short But Slow over The Marauders by 13 WeCanBeatYou .over4BJgMen .(6:15) 
Stepan 3 Mangled Baby Ducks Bleed Aga1n over Shots & A Keg by 7 Team #340overTeam #230by 10 We Go 5 over Immanuel .by 15 
J.B. & Co. over The Ch1cago Cubs Of Bookstore by 11 
Stepan 4 WBBS over If You Can't Beat us ...by 9 Team #263overTeam #296 by 16 POA over Hoopsters by 16 5 Alternatives To Dave Popson over Th1s Year We're Not Gomg To Lose ..23-21 
Stepan5 Shondell .over Were We Supposed To Have A Clever Name by 5 Sex & The Four Offenders over Navel Lint by 13 Ja's Men over Bip B1p Bip Bip Bip by 7 4 Guys Who ..over 5 White Guys ...by 8 
Stepan& Final 512or Bust over The Smokin E's by 7 Orange Crush over Young Doctors In Heat by 15 Make Believers over 5 Guys Named Moe by 12 Team #88 over Mercury Morns & The Snowmen by 3 
Stepan7 Run & Gun over Sopke's Choice by 15 
Stepan a Double Decker Oreo Cookie over Three Guys Who Hate The Other Two by 12 
Bookstores ·G· Anatics over M1ddle Class Rastafanans by 5 SWC over We're Bad. But ...by 17 Ralphie ...over Spanky ..by 7 Even-Less Jacksonless 5 over The Five Dwarfs by 8 
Bookstore10 Slim Joe Gruber over Flynn's Fabulous Five 23-21 US over Anel Sharon .by 14 3 Tremendous Tan Masters & Some Pretty Fair Irish­men over Otis Day & The Knights by 3 ' Last Chance Express over The 5 Jerks Under 5'10" by 13 
Lyon•11 Geritol Express over Team #201 by 17 Duk Koo K1m . .over J. Dead .by 18 PAoole Who Died over Team #423 bv 7 
Lyon•12 Hell (4:45) Four Basketball Players . .over 5 Good Reasons Team #81 v. Team #30 (5:30) . by 15 Rousseau·s Noble Savages v. Chang's Gang (6·15) Beaucoup over DAMMM by 9 
Stepan&Mallone Kids over Team #79 by 6 Pandejos v. Team #468 (4·00)Pass1on & Romance & Comm1es From Mars over All Team #371 v. The Cubs (4:45) 
The President's Men by 14 Spoofhounds Ill v. 4 Lazy . .(5 30) Sublime Med1ocre Frogs v P1g Bag (6 15) 
Today·s Games 
Stepan 1 Stepan 7 8th Floor Losers v. F1ve P1llars Of Zen (4:00) Showdown v. God's Own Drunks (6 15) S1r Gallahad .v. Team #257(4 45) Stepan a Team #225 v Capt Crunch ...(5:30) The Tormentors v Whoosh .(6:15) love & The Shoot1ng Stars v. Team #404 (6·15) 
BookstoregStepan2 4Jerks .v.5GuysWho .(4·00)
The Traged1es v. Fun Bunch 5 (4:00) W.H v. The Problem .(4:45)
Re11s .v 4 Human Bemgs .(4:45) 
Capta1n Snorkel .v. Joe Jakubik .(6:15)
Team #430 v. John Delorean Says Coke Is It (5:30) Team #62 v. MUNG (6:15) Bookstore 10 
Stepan3 Mrs. rs PJerogJeS V. Tall But White (4 00) F<anc1sHotel LaSallev. Team #128(4:00) 3 Beers & 2 Grape Neh1s Please v. 5 Reasons WEBB's Encore v. Beer Hunters (4:45) 
(445) The Scroggs v. The Bullish B-Ball Brokers (5:30) GF v. S1lky . .(6:15) 5 Unwanted v. B1gger. Better .(6:15) 
Lyons11
·Stepan 4 
Even Hungner Rats v Team #368 (4:00)Bleedmg Ax Wounds v. MCOB II (4:00) Ch1cks D1g Us v. Team #111 (4:45)PGNF In Stereo v. Team #365 (4:45) MacNamara's Band v. The A~rball 5 (6:15) 
P1ke's Peaks v. Sons Of Thunder (5:30) Freddie Brown ..v. Team #409 (6:15) Lyons12 Stepan5 The Creamers v. Team #372 (4:00) Boom-Boom .v. Nutmeggers Are Back Aga1n Macn·s Preffered Stock v. Team #9 (4:45) 
(4:00) Bad To The Bone v. 4 Tylenols & A Cyan1de (6:15) 
crown on Thursday, April14 
plan tn attend an 
AUDIO AMPLIFIER CLINIC 
by Crown International from Noon to 7, and a 
SEMINAR on AMPLIFIER DESIGN at 7p.m. 
Presented hy 
AUDIO SPECIALISTS 
401 North Michigan St., South Bend 
Ever wonder why amplifiers that test well sometimes seem to sound bad? .It's because music actually demands more from an amplifier than test tones. The engineers at CROWN have developed a Null Test which uses music to test an am­plifier's performance. I you lxing your amplifier in to our cli­nic, we'll run standard amplifier tests on your component, and then perform the Null Test to see how it actually performs with music. We'll also be hosting a Seminar an amplifier Design by Crown that evening at 7 PM to help you learn how to interpret specifications and manufacturer's claims. Space in the clinic is limited, so you may want to call 234-5001 to reserve a slot. 

• • • Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 16 
ticipant and former Notre Dame player Tim Healy gunned home eight of 12 to lead his seeded team, S.W.C., to an easy 21-4 vic­tory over We're Bad But Don't Wave ... S.W.C., a Final Four team two years ago, had no problem with their bright yellow 
coverall clad opponents. 
Freshman Chris Schneider scored seven points to lead seeded US over Ariel Sharon and The Peacemakers by a 21-7 count. US, a Final Eight team last year, graduated one and picked up the Iowa First Team All-State Schneider as a replacement. 
John Stein and Jim Baron may be the two best known members of the Evenless Jacksonless Five but it was 6'9" Ed Hjerpe who hit on seven of nine shots to lead Evenless over The Five Dwarfs 21-13. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -If you already miss seeing Tim Andree play basketball, his team, Bad to the Bone, goes up against Four Tylenols and A Cyanide today at 6:15 on Lyons 12. And if you want to see Karl Love start, Love and The Shooting Stars vs. Harold Washington and _ . . at 
6:1 5 on Stepan 1 is a game you might want to catch . 

,. 
.... 

WANT TO FLY? 

If your goal is to become a professional, you owe it to yourself not to overlook any opportunities that will help you reach that goal. THE NAVY PILOT (20/.20 vision is required) is the finest in the world, flying a variety of soph­isticated high performance aircraft. THE NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER (vision correctible to 20/20) is the quarter­back of the Naval Aviation Team with wide·-ranging expertise from sdite-of-the-art Data Processing to Master Tacti­cian.· If you are a college graduate, or are within three years of graduation, wanting to get your feet off the ground and earn over $27,000 a year within four years and attend the world's most prestigious flight school, contact or mail your resume to: 
575 N. Pennsylvania St. Office 646, Indianapolis, IN 46204
NAVAL AVIATION 1-800-382-3782 
The Observer Thursday, April 14, 1983-page 12 
Naylor, Larkin return Linebackers follow strong tradition 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports Writer 
Except for the lone possibility of the tailback position, the 1983 Notre Dame football team will have more talent and depth at linebacker than any other spot on the field. Over the last decade, linebacker coach George KellY's units have been loaded with quality. 
During the 1970's, Penn State earned a reputation as the No. I sup­plier of linebackers to the National Football League. Lately however, the Irish are making a name for them­selves in this area. 
Bob Golic, Steve Heimkreiter, Mike Whittington, Bobby Leopold, and Bob Crable are all former Irish linebackers who have made it in the NFL This year Mark Zavagnin is cer­tain to be the next link in the chain. 
Next season, the Irish will once again be strong at linebacker. Two starters will be returning on the outside, senior Rick Naylor and his high school teammate junior Mike 
. -. 
Larkin. In the middle, Chicago, Ill. native Tony Furjanic will most likely inherit Zavagnin's spot. 
Currently Furjanic is sitting out spring practice as he waits for his injured thumb to heal. Originally reported in Monday's Obseroer as four broken fingers, the injury was actually diagnosed as a ligament tear resulting from his hand getting caught in a practice jersey. 
Although he will only be a sopho­more in the fall, Furjanic will fill the void created by Zavagnin's gradua­tion. Admitting that the play ofPitts­burgh Steeler middle linebacker Jack Lambert has had an influence on him, the summer time wrecking crew worker is quick, aggressive, and extremely physical. However, 

lacking game experience, there is 
room for improvement. 
"I need work on getting my pass 
coverages down, and getting the feel 
of the defenses," comments Fur­
janie. 
Furjanic will be backed up by senior Tom Murphy ( 6-2, 217­pounds), junior Joe Bars (6-5, 225­pounds), and perhaps by sophomore John McCabe ( 6-3, 222­pounds). 
Currently there is a small degree of uncertainty regarding the status of McCabe. Although he had been second string middle linebacker on the depth chart at the time of Fur­janie's injury, McCabe has been asked by the coaches to switch to tight end. 
"On Monday they (the coaches) 
called me in and told me they 
needed a lot ?fhelp at tight end right 
now," comments McCabe who 
played that position on offense in 
high school. "I guess they are pretty 
short at tight end except for Mark 
Bavaro . 
"Since I played it in high school, they figured that I was a likely choice. We're going to try it this week and then they'll evaluate me, and I will evaluate myself. So it's not permanent in any sense." 
The fact that McCabe had been backing up Furjanic prior to the switch makes it all the more strange. The handwriting may have been on the wall, though, on Saturday when it was Tom Murphy who played with the first team defense instead of McCabe. But if McCabe does not work out at tight end the coaches promised that he would have the spot he left on defense -second string middle linebacker. 
There is no confusion on the 
weakside. Larkin has the position all 
sewn up as he just may be the best 
on a very good defensive unit. 
In Larkin, the Irish have power 
and speed. He showed last season 
that he has remarkable field savy. 
Only a junior, Larkin can only get 
better. 
Ron Weissenhofer will back up 
Larkin next season. Weissenhofer 
hails from Oak Lawn, Ill. where he 
attented the same high school, St. 
Rita's, as Mark Zavagnin. Weissen­
hofer has looked pretty good this 
spring, but make no mistake about it, 
the position belongs to Larkin. 
In the past the strongside 
linebacker has been the coaching 
property of Kelly, but this year that 
is not the case. Defensive line coach 
Greg Blache is working with this 
position because the Irish will 
change their defense a slight bit in 
the fall. Notre Dame will run a 4-3 
and a 5-2 on defense. When they arc 
in a 5-2, the strongsidc linebacker 
will line up on the line. In the 4-3, 
he'll drop back into his normal 
linebacker position. 
"Our defense will be based on the 
other team's offensive alignment," 
explains George Kelly. "It won't be 
predictable or steadfast." 
The man doing the shifting most of the time will be senior Rick Naylor. The Cincinnati, Ohio native had a fine season last year but he is still hampered by a nagging shoulder injury. 
As spring practices wind down, any battles for linebacker positions are among the reserves, except in the case of middle linebacker where Furjanic has not been told the spot is his yet. As of right now, the Septem­ber 10 opener looks like it will feature NFL -Naylor, Furjanic and 
Larkin -talent. 


If you're a senior and have the promise of a $10,000 career-oriented job, do you know what's stopping you from getting the American Express' Card? 
You guessed it. 
Nothing. 
Because American Express believes in your future. But more than that. We believe in you now. And we've proving it. .­A $10,000 job promise. That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. Ana this offer is even good for 12 months after you graduate. 
· But why should you get the American Express Card now? 
Because the Card is great for shopping. 
Whether it's a new suit for the job or a new stereo for home, the American Express Card is welcomed at the finest stores all over the country. And even if you need furniture for your place, you can do it with the Card. 
Ofcourse, it's also great for restaurants, hotels, and travel. It also begins to establish your credit history-for any really big things you might need. 
So callS00-528-8000 for a Special Student Application or lmk for one at your college bookstore or on campus bulletin boards. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it.'"' 
Look for an application 
on campus. 

Trying to fill Mark Zavagnin's shoes wont be easy, butjunior Tom Murphy is up to the challenge. Murphy is battling sophomore Tony Furjanic for the position. See Steve Labate's story at left 

What are the 


BISHOPS 
Saying About Nuclear Arms? 
William McManus 
Bishop of Fort Wayne,!South Bend 
Richard Warner, CSC 
Committee Member, Statement on Peace and War 

April17, 1983 8:00PM Library Auditorium 
an 
C'!..,.,..S
morwStry 
~­
-----~----~-------------~-----~------------~~ 
The Observer Sports Extra -Recruiting Review Thursday, April14, 1983-page 13 


Digger, Mary D. sign five f-Or class of '87 

David Popson: A tall order for ND, North Carolina 
Dean Smith is favored to land top big man; announcement next week 
By CHRIS NEEDLES Four this year -their basketball Wis., has yet to decide where he will tion, mystique and a lot of qualities Sports EditorEmeritUs tradition is better than ours. •enroll in the fall, although he has in sports and academics that appeal "We. tried our best. We had his narrowed his choice down to either to me. It's not going to be easy to say 
For the last two years, Digger parents and his coach (Jim Mahon) Marquette or North Carolina. Gillen no to either one." Phelps and his assistants have logged on our side, and we had him visit surmises that if Wolf were to decide Gillen sees Popson helping many miles to the tiny town of during the weekend of the Michigan in the next week to attend UNC, someone's program right away. 
Kingston in northeast Pennsylvania (football) game. We told him that then Popson might be inclined to "He's a very active forward," says in hot pursuit of first-team high he'd have a chance to plav here right choose Notre Dame. Gillen of Popson, who is compared school all-American David Popson. away; but that doesn't phase him -Popson, who averaged 28 points most often to Bobby Jones of the 
Now, it appears those efforts will he's confident he'll play at Carolina. ' and 16 rebounds a game this season Philadelphia 76ers, who, ironically, be for naught. The glitter of the NCAA tournament for Bishop O'Reilly despite persist­is a former Tar Heel. "He's a fine of­
Popson, the 6-9 forward coveted and the fact that he likes (North t~nt double and triple teaming, has fensive rebounder and a good by nearly everyone this recruiting Carolina coach) Dean Smith finally kept his suitors at bay since Novem­scorer. At Notre Dame, he would season, has scheduled a press con­made up his mind, I guess." ber, preferring to postpone his deci­emerge to become our main cog. ference for next Wednesday in the But Notre Dame has not given up sion until after the season -"We're disappointed, but we did library of Bishop O'Reilly High on Popson just yet. This weekend, including all-star games -had everything we could. We touched School, and indications are that he Gillen will travel to Pittsburgh for ended. every base we could, but North will announce his intention to enroll the Dapper Dan Classic -the all­"It's my decision and I'm the one Carolina's a little above us now." 
at the University of North Carolina, star game that made a name for Bill that's got to live with it," Popson Back in 1979, a high school and not Notre Dame, in the fall of Varner in 1979 -in one last attempt told the Philadelphia Dai~y News in phenom named Ralph Sampson 198:\. to woo Popson. Irish recruit John January. "Still, I realize that my awoke and went to a press con­David Popson 
"He's leaning toward North Bowen will also participate in the parents are just trying to see me do ference ready to announce his inten­
6-9 forward

Carolina now," Irish assistant coach Dapper Dan. what's best for myself They're the tion to attend Kentucky. He walked 
Pete Gillen admits. "From talking to However, Gillen sees one people I love most, and I have to into the room, stepped to the Kingston, Pa. 
him, he seems to have a stronger scenario that could turn Popson in n~spect their opinion. microphone and told the world he Bishop O'Reilly H. S. 
feeling toward North Carolina. They NO's direction. Joe Wolf, a 6-10 cen­"The decision will be one that was going to ... Virginia. 
28 ppg, 16 rebounds

were the defending national ter and a t t hird-team Street and makes us all happy. I'm in a can't-lose "We're not real optimistic," says ( champs, they just missed the Final Smith's all-American from Kohler, situation. Both schools have tradi-Gillen. "But it's not over yet." 
John Bowen 6-8 forward Warren, Pa. Warren High School 27 ppg, 20 rebounds 

Scott Hicks 6-3 guard indianapolis Cathedral High School 12 ppg, 10 assists 
Hicks, Bowen ink NO committments 
continued/rom page 16 
Williams is there." 
Bowen, a 6-8 forward who holds the unofficial Penn­sylvania state record for career rebounds, will add depth and versatility to the Irish from line. Despite his lofty statistics ( 27 points and 20 rebounds per game), Bowen was not heavily recruited and is listed as only a fourth-team all-American byStreet and Smith's. 
Bowen, according to Gillen, was a victim of cir­
cumstance. 
"He's a strong, physical kid, and he's a good outside 
shooter," says Gillen of the Warren, Pa., native. "But his 
stock went down a little because he didn't have a great 
summer in Pittsburgh at the Five-Star Camp (a highly 
regarded showcase of the nation's high school talent). 
Nobody realizes that he was playing with a new coach 
and inexperienced players at the camp. 
"He'll be good for us because he can play three posi­
tions: he can play power forward because he's 230 
pounds, he can be a finesse forward or he can spell Tim­
my Kempton at center. He can shoot a 20-footer just as 
well as he can post up low." 
Bowen's situation is comparable to that of Tim Andree, who dominated his league in Farmington, Mich., and amassed impressive stats against less-than­impressive competition. But Bowen's ability to hit the outside shot should help him succeed in college. 
The Irish beat out Villanova, South Carolina, Pitt and Duquesne for Bowen's services. 
Hicks, a teammate of Ken Barlow for three years at Indianapolis Cathedral, is a 6-2 guard that Gillen is espe­cially high on. 
"We feel he's one of the most talent•ed guards in the 
country," says Gillen. "He's a Marquette-type of guard, 
out of the Doc Rivers, Michael Wilson, Sam Worthen 
mold. He will be a terrific player." 
Like Royal, Hicks suffers from a lack ofrecognition. In a state that produces as many guards as it does soybeans, Hicks has had to stay in the background while Marion's James Blackmon (a Kentucky recruit) and New Castle's Steve Alford (an Indiana signee) grabbed all the headlines. 
But Gillen thinks Hicks is just as good-ifnot better. 
"Scotty's a better player than Alford,'' Gillen says. "There's no question about it. He has better potential and he can play either guard spot (shooter or playmaker). He's best when he drives to the basket (something Alford doesn't do well). He's a good l~aper, but he needs a little work on his ballhandling." 
Meanwhile, recruiting for the class of 1988 has al­ready begun, and the Irish staff is tracking closely the progress of one player in particular -6-2 Delray Brooks, a junior guard from nearby Michigan City Rogers who is out of the Isiah Thomas mold. 
"Delray will be the top guard prospect in the country 
next year," predicts Gillen. "He's a good student, 
someone who would fit it very well here at Notre 
Dame." 
But, for now, the focus is on Popson and Royal. 
"If we just get Royal, you can classify this as a 'good' recruiting yer," says Gillen. "But if we get both of them, then you can say it was a 'phenomenal' year." 


DiStanislao's trio adds speed, depth 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Editor 

"We're just a point guard and a center away," Mary 
DiStanislao said after Notre Dame's 81-39 thrashing at 
the hands of then-No. 1 Louisiana Tech. If those two 
needs were filled, the Irish women's basketball coach 
reasoned, her team would find itself regarded among 
the nation's power teams. 
While DiStanislao is still searching for her aircraft car­
rier, she might have filled the other bill, and she's cer­
tainly established depth on her from line with her 
recruiting class of 1983. 
Vonnie Thompson, a 5·8 guard from Saginaw, Mich., 
may be just the point player DiStanislao wanted so 
much. Thompson, who led her high school, Carrollton, 
to three of four Class C titles in Michigan, averaged 14 
points a game while dishing offfive assists and grabbing 
five steals a night. 

"Most schools recruited her as an off-guard, but we 
feel that she'll be more valuable as a lead guard, becuse 
she likes to take control ofa ballgame," says DiStanislao 
ofthe two-time Michigan all-stater. 
Thompson's recruitment was unusual. Like Skierez and Willis, her name is not listed high on any national all-star teams, but when an Evonne Johnson of Flint High School got mixed up with Thompson in a Detroit 
Free Press story, as "Vonnie 'Magic' Johnson,' the Irish staff was, needless to say, highly confused. It took a con­tact from Thompson's high school coach to make DiS­tanislao realize that "my God, there's two of them." 
DiStanislao strengthened her front line quite a bit with the additions of6-0 Mickey Skierez and 5-11 Lavet­ta Willis. Skierez, from Westlake, Calif., and Willis, from Wayne, Mich., have almost the same high school statis­tics. Their game is tough and on the inside, as both averaged 10 rebounds a game and were successful on more than halfoftheir field goal attempts. 
"Mickey reminds me of a 6-0 Theresa Mullins,'' says DiStanislao. "She just goes in there and moves people around. She's tough." 
"Lavetta, on the other hand, is an unpolished gem. She's only going to get better (here). And she knows that. She's got a good attitude. 
The addition of Thompson and Willis gives the Irish women a Michigan connection -at guard, former all· stater Denise Basford helped run the Notre Dame attack last year as a freshman. 
"It's a case of natural selecton," says DiStanislao. "First and foremost, there's good talent in Michigan. And second, people in the Midwest are closer to our situation (at Notre Dame) -not the image, but they know the type of school we have, and the type of program we're running." 
Still in the offing is a center. DiStanislao hopes to have word from a pivot prospect before the end ofApril, but, like Digger Phelps and David Popson, it's strictly wait· and-see. In this recruiting battle, she finds herself locked with schools such as Louisiana Tech and Texas, as well as hometown schools. Meanwhile, assistant coach Patrick Knapp has begun to pore over lists ofthe nation's best junior centers, for next year-just in case. 

Vonnie Thompson 5-8 guard Saginaw, Mich. Carrollton High School 14 pp , 5 assists 
ey sz 6-0 forward/center Westlake, Calif. Westlake High School 17 ppg, 10 rebounds 

vetta Willis 5-11 forward/center Wayne, Mich. Ladywood High School 18 ppg, 10 rebounds 



------~------------­

The Observer Matre's streak ends 

Despite weather, Irish salvage split 
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish baseball team was 
hoping to have the record that the 
Ball State University team left with 
yesterday, 12·12. However, a rain­
shortened 9-l second game loss to 
Ball State gave Notre Dame a 11·13 
record. The Irish were victorious in 
the t1rst game ofthe doubleheader at Jake Kline Field, 5-3. 
Coach Larry Gallo "desperately" wanted to reach the .500 mark. "I wanted it (the 12-12 record) so bad that I could taste it," said Gallo. 
In the first game, the Irish entered 
the t bottom of the fifth with a 3-2 
deficit. Second baseman jack Moran 
led off the inning with a single. A 
bunt single by shortstop Rick Chryst 
followed, and one out later. third 
baseman Carl Vuono doubled to left­
center knocking in both runners for 
a 4-3 Irish lead. Vuono later scored 


1 7'' 
Cheese Pizza 

c
, 

$7.10
0 
~ 
Additional Ingredients 90c Tax Included Offer good with no other coupon. Expires 4/20/83 
_oUPO

-
after an error by the Ball State third baseman and single by Phil Dingle. 
Pitcher Steve Whitmyer went the distance for the Irish. He raised his record to 2-4. Whitmyer gave up six hits, no walks, and had four strikeouts. 
In the second game, the Cardinals did enough damage in the third in­ning for victory. With a runner on third and two outs, Brown of Ball State hit his second home run of the day. 
The Brown homer was after Irish pitcher Bill Matre had extended his string of not allowing an earned run to 21 innings. The sreak covered three complete games and went back to the spring break trip through the South. 
The Cardinals did not stop with two runs in the second inning. Ball State scored two more runs on a pair of singles and a double, all with two outs. The double came on a pop-up in shallow right field. Second baseman Moran and rightfielder Henry Lange collided into each other after diving for the ball. Moran (the leading Irish hitter) was taken out of the game because of a mild concussion. He is expected to be back and playing within the next week. 
Ball State scored one more run in the inning, making the lead 'i-0. The run was knocked in on an error by Moran's replacement, freshman Tom Guilfoile. 
Notre Dame scored its lone run in the fifth on singles by catcher Mike Doming and first baseman Greg Hudas and an error. The error was on a hard shot by Snyder to the second baseman. 
The Cardinals added tour more runs in the sixth to t1nish the scoring. Heavy rain during the top of the seventh caused the game to come to an early halt. 






14'' 
Cheese Pizza z 
D. 
~

$5.40 0 
Additional Ingredients 75c Tax Included Offer good with no other coupon. Expires 4/20/83 
C UPON 

Thursday, Apri114, 1983-page 14 

Tht• Observcr/Scou Bower 

Senior Steve Whitmyer added a victory• to his 2-4 record yester· day as the Notre Dam; baseball team be~t Ball State 5-3 in thefirst ga.me ofa double header. The Irish lost the second game 9·1· 
Get Involved-!! 
Cultural Arts Commission 
sponsor of SLF, CJF, Student Players, ISIS, etc .••• 



TNUHIATOIILY C-14-13 BUDWEISER~· 99 :;-;·:~6t&Sl ~...:..· UMITII'Eti'EIISII  FIIDAY o•u ··15-13 OLDMILWAUKEEi·~. . 49 ''·--'5WI '-··--·· UMIT I PIII'EISOII  SATUIDAY ONLY C·ll-13 UMIT II'EII'EISOI  
C.IC-13lllllllllllll'l-cumSARK SCOTCH .. · 99 /;:7Ill. , :. UMITII'EII'EHOII  fiiDllOIILT C-15-13 KINGS CELLAR GIN 7~~LI111 i.IMIT I PEII'EIIOI  UTUUllOIILY C-11-13 CRDWft-r_:.ROYAL99 ...915111 UMIT I I'EII'EISOI  
TNU~~~c'tOIILY ~l MllnRJ &IDSSI /:II1ASTI · ·SPUMANTE ~ 99 ;l.r7111<11 UIIIT II'EII'EISOI  JtiDlYOIII.T C-15-13 CARLO ROSSI~WINES BIG4LITEl 449 ~~ UMITI HIHISlll  UTUUllOILT C-11-13 MATEUS aJ WINEG 99 ~215111 LIMIT I HI PEISOI  





fij ~~LDWAUKEE 599 
PRICES GOOD THRU ~ CASE SAT~ APRIL 16th 
SOUTHBENDAVESTOREONLY 
KEGS BUDWEISER ............ OLD MILWAUKEE ....... GENERIC LITE .......... MILLER ... ~ ............ 
LIQUOR 
KINGS CELLAR VODKA OR GIN 
32.99 28.99 21.99 29.99 


799 499 399 
1.75 LITER 1.0 LITER 758 IL MASH KIT 150 IL1li£G 19.99 
999
(UIOISPUY) 
JIM BEAM 
499
BOURBON 1Siflll MASH VODKA mfill 
3'9 
399
GILBEY'S VODKA 1so fill TANQUERAY GIN 1so fill 
7•• 
899
DEWARS SCOTCH 15o fill 
CANADIAN CLUB 15o fill &··
499
CALVERT EXT_RA 15o Ml CAPTAIN MORGAN 
499
SPICED RUM 15o Ill 
QUARTS 

BUDWEISER ............. OLD MILWAUKEE ........ MILLER LITE ............. 
CORDIALS 
FRANGELICO mIll 
E&J BRANDY 1so Ill MCGUIRE'S IRISH CREAM mML 


AMARETTO 150 Ill 
AMARETTD 1so Ill 
AMARETTD & COGNAC 750 Ml GREEN 

m, • 
CREME DE MENTHE 15o ML 
~l • -SLOE GIN 15o flit 
·~~* TRIPLE SEC "'" 
~ 'I PRALINE
~IT -·._, LIQUEUR mfill 

9.69 7.99 8.99 
WINES 

CARW ROSSI BIG li.ITER 
SEBASTIANI V ARIETALS 
1.5 I.ITER ALMADEN MOLINTAIN \\l,.:s 
l.li.ITn:R PREMIAT WINES 
750 ML 
NORTH COAST WINES 
750 ML 
MANISCHEWITZ WINES 
750 ML 
NIN ASTI SPUMANTE 
·750 ML 7.)0 MI. 
GERMAN LIEBFRALIMILCH 
750 ML 
LA VIELLE FERME 
Rt"d & Whilf i.)ll ~1. Blant· d~ Rlanr 7.'>11 m 
1621 SOUTH BEND AVE Closest Liquor store to Campus 
499 399 399 299 
299 
}99 499 229 299 399 599 






KING CELLAR 





1~~r======================================= 
Thursday, April14, 1983-page 15



Tod~x 

Bloom County

..-------..... 
YA KNOW, JUST A 
Ff:W YfAf<£; N:;O. 
SHE: WAS JUST A 
50100(.0/RI... ,., 

flOW l:O YCJJ PIEliD, 115. &lX0/'1? 
I 
I Cf,JfCr, YWR 
ffY(j(.. rn tK::r E'lEN :JJR£ WHY 1 f/11 HUE 
1 lX>N7 {,f) b JIOTRE 
!illfEi 1 r:,o TO I.U./ 
\ 
WH~I TIME IS IT SET fO 40 O~F 7 
... 
\ 
JDD 



The Daily Crossword 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 4/14/83 All Rights Reserved 



Simon 
Fate 
YOliN6 LfJI)~,._ THE tRoll FtsT of J,01K£ l)f/l'lt. '!FE!KIIES Fflff. AIJD WIDE. BfYON{) 1/ER C/1!11'115 fiND /£[( STUDE}IT5! .,. MJW MY 
Yai'I?E Mf?IW 


FAIHEII.. JOYC(, THtRE 's A MI<.N ON HIE PHON£ WHO SA'iS H('S PLt\tHfD 
A TIM£ 80MB IN 
O'SHAU.~NESS'I HN...Lll 
11.:00 NOON, WHrN 
EvaYoNE.' S AI 
LUNCH 

Berke Breathed 

Campus 
"McCIONAUIS." GOOC> WR/7, I 1/1 ... NOT 
Jeb Cashin 
C!IS6 I 
DISI1W:>ED... /{tXT. 
I 

Photius 
EVfR HAVf A DAY WHEN Au.. YOU( PR~YERS AR( ANSWERED?--~ 
•3:30 
p.m. -SHde Presentation, of the areas helped by money from the Wednesday Lunch Fast, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition, Free 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Chemistry of Carbenes and Nitrenes Probed by Laser Spectroscopy," Prof. G. 

B. 
Schuster, Radiation Laboratqry Conference Theatre 

• 
5 p.m. -Mass ofThanksgiving, for the Dedica· tion of the Center for Social Concerns, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Sacred Heart Church 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "The Concert for Bangladesh," Chautauqua Coffeehouse, Sponsored byNDSU 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting of the Pre law Society, Library Auditorium 

•7, 
9:I5, and II:30 p.m. -Film, "Brian's Song," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Judo Club, Sl 

•7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. -Film, "Galipoli," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB 7:30p.m. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Fiction Reading, Ron Hansen and Jim Shepard, Library Lounge 

•B 
p.m. -Lecture, and Dance Demonstration, Kathleen Quinlan-Krichels, Prof. Thomas Leff and Jeffrey Jacob, Little Theatre 

•8 
p.m. -Student Composer Concert, "The Music ofTim Keyes," Annen berg Auditorium 

•a 
p.m.-Lecture, "Chesterton: Critic of.Evolun· tionism," Rev. Stanley L. Jaki, Rare Book Room, Library 

•8 
p.m. -Hawaii Club Organizational Meeting, LaFortune Ballroom 

•B 
p.m. -Music, 20th Century Masters, WSND· 


FM 88.9  
T.V.  Tonight  
9p.m.  16  Gimme A Break  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Too Close for Comfort  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  Steve Landesberg  
28  It Takes Two  
10p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Tucker's Witch  
28  20/20  
34  I Claudius  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy and McCloud  
28  ABC News Nightline  

The Far Side 



ACROSS 
1 Lift one's hatln greeting 
5 Many times, to a bard 
8 Qulen --? 12 Sunnl world 14 Letters 
on a dial 15 Fragra111t 
flower 16 Wing-like 17 Somerset stream 
18 Rene's parting word 
19 "-my prince will come" 
21 Au­
13 Bids goodbye 25 Part of a canine name 26 Segar's comic hero 29 Charged particles 
31 Dentor sect 34 Jewish 
month 35 Feeling of 
anxiety 36 Hurried 37 Parting 
words 41 Night 
before 42 Sklp.over 43 French 
river 
44 Blushing 45 Calif. city 46 Laundry 
worker 48 -·fl 49 Facilitated 51 Parting 
words 54 Renaissance 
jacket 58 Wicked city 59 Garland 61 Indian 
school of 
philosophy 62 Plant stalk 63 Long­64 Conger 
catcher 65 Musical 
sound 66 -and don'ts 
67 Middling 
DOWN 1 Buenos­2 Fjord city 3 Humbug 4 Parting 
word 5 Daisy 6 Mend 7 Gallery 8 Port of 
Lebanon 
9 Et­10 Boxing name 11 Old French 
coin 

13 Eleanor Roosevelt's column 
15 Hasta­20 Rd. 22 Painter Max 24 lndefl· 
nltely 26 Ustlnov 27 Love of 26 A 28 Whimpered 30 Arch 31 Practice 32 Poker term 33 Circle 
or tube 35 Surrounded 
by 38 Greet 39 Remove 
oneself, at law 40 Parting 
words 46 Equal: pref. 47 Meet, like 
grads 48 Acclivity 50 Parting 
word 51 And-bed 52 Valhalla's 
chief 53 Pleased 55 French 
composer 56 Inspects 57 Pol source 58 Concord& 60 Conceit 
CHAUTAUQUA Thursday, April14 Admission $·1 
opplf! presents 
GEORGE HARRISON 
and friends in 
THE CONCERT FOR BANGLADESH 
applt/20th ctntury-loa rtlta\t TtdmKoltt• 
[ Oc;gillll Sound Track boiloblt On AppltltcordcJ 
7, 9, and 11 Presented by ND Studemt Union 



~iorBar 
Gl} Nuts nnd Bolts Nite 
Find your mQtch ondwinQ atSeniot Bat 
·, 

Free OtQft eQch! opens at 9:30 

4:00 til 7:00 !!! 
.. cx~.:~a•a.-:ul~•~~............. ~~--.. ~ ....•aa .......... ~
~F~..Et!~~u-...••s•...... ~...... ~~·~--.... ........,~K~..·«~....~c~•• ..~ca _~--~*'~~..~:u....cs~..,ac~~~~~~-...._.~~~-..u:uc..~..~.. 
• I 
-

S_~orts 

The Observer/john Wachter 
junior Mike Larkin appears to have the weakside linebacker

Larkin 
position ali locked up for next season. Larkin will be adding
a speed and power to a talented Irish linebacker unit. Steve Labate reviews the situation on page 12.

lock 

Thursday, April14, 1983-page 16 


For Phelps, two down, two to go 
Papson and Royal still on wish list for Irish staff 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports EditorEmeritus 
Yesterday -the first day for sig­
ning spring institutional letters ofin­
tent -came and went without any 
fanfare in the Notre Dame men's bas­
ketball office. With two recruits 
(forward John Bowen and guard 
Scott Hicks) having signed during 
the special one-week signing period 
inNovember, Digger Phelps and his statt now must sweat it out while their two remaining hopefuls ­swingman Donald Royal and first­team all-America forward David Popson -make-their decisions. 
Popson, the blue-chipper from 
Kingston, Pa., has indicated that he will make his decision public at a press conference next Wednesday. April 20. He has narrowed his ·~hoices down to Notre Dame and the University of North Carolina, but is reportedly leaning toward the Tar 
Heels (see related story). 
That leaves the Irish with two in 
the bank and two undecided; so 
even though the high school basket­
ball season is over and 0nly a few all­
star games remain, the recruiting 
continues. 
Royal, a 6-6 guard-forward from 
New Orleans, is a surprise prospect. 
Street and Smith's Basketball Year­

book, whose all-America list is high-_ 
ly regarded, did not see fit to rate 
Royal even as an honorable mention 
-and their list contains over 500 
top prospects. 

But Royal has one thing going for him -he's a winner. His school, St. Augustine, captured the Louisiana state championship this season. As a result, others have taken notice ­Georgetown, UCLA, Virginia, Mar­quette and Tulane have joined Notre Dame in courting Royal, although the Irish seem to have the inside track. 
"He's a 'diamond in the rough,' " says Irish assistant coach Pete Gillen, who coordinates NO's recruiting ef­forts. "He's a lot like (UCLA forward) Darren Daye -not quite as smooth just yet, but he'll get better. He's a great athlete with the quickness we reallv need. Hicks doesn't have the name recognition that others have, but I think right now he can compete with the top 25 high school players in the country. I think we have a good shot at him." 
Gillen's hopes were buoyed 
somewhat  yesterday with  the  an­ 
nouncement  that  first-team  all­ 
American  Reggie  Williams  of  

Dunbar High in Baltimore -a 6-7 swingman -had chosen to attend Georgetown. 
"John Thompson (Georgetown's coach) is really good with the inner­city kids," says Gillen. "Maybe now Royal will choose not to go to Georgetown now that 
see DIGGER ... , page 13 

Victors overcome wind 
•

rain, sloppy courts 
ByJEFF BLUMB Cookie continued its quest to be Sports Writer Bookstore Champion with a 21-9 win over Three Guys Who Hate 
Wind, rain and wet grounds the Other Two. The story with hindered Bookstore XII play yes­Double Decker continues to be terday as the tournament eotered their hot shooting. They have its second round. Whether or not now shot an identical 21-35 in it was because the teams playing both oftheir games, or 60/. Casey wanted to get out of the weather Newell and Bill Varner both hit or not, most of the day's games on six of 1 0 shots to lead Double were over faster than usual. Decker yesterday. 
It was a day that saw many Six-time tournament par-tournament seeds take to the 
See BOOKSTORE, page 11court. Double Decker Oreo 


N. L. WEST 
Will Steve Garvey return to haunt L.A.? 
Sports EditorEmeritus 
Last season, the Atlanta Braves surprised even themselves by 
taking their first division title since 1969 -despite losing 19 of 21 
games at one point in midseason. Three other teams were in the race 
in September, and while some faces have changed, the same four 
teams should contend ...with different results. 
San Diego -Theaddition ofSteve Garvey won't make that much 
difference -any good-hitting first baseman would have sufficed. 
The Padres are overloaded in the outfield and bullpen, and should 
use some of them in a trade for a starting pitcher -as of now, John 
Montefusco is the No. 2 starter. But Atlanta won without starting 
pitching; 
Los Angeles -Tommy Lasorda would be wise to forego a cham­
pionship this year to give his many youngsters some playing ex­
perience. The Dodgers' future stars -Greg Brock ( frrst base), Steve 
Sax (second base), Dave Anderson (shortstop), Mike Marshall, Ron 
Roenicke and Candy Maldonado (oufield) -will lead LA to glory in 
future years. 
Atlanta -Last year's champs are solid on offense and have two fine relievers -sinkerballer Gene Garber and fireballer Steve Bedrosian. But both are righthanded. Sore-armed Terry Forster, ac­quired from LA, will try to fill the Braves' lefty reliever void. Poor starting pitching -44-year-old Phil Niekro is the stalwart -turned a 13-0 start into an 89-73 finish last year. This year, that won't be enough. 
San Francisco-The Giants won 43 of their last 67 in 1982 to make a run for the pennant, which would have been their first title in 12 years. Mike Krukow (from Philadelphia) joins a good young pitching staff, supplemented by the best lefty-righty bullpen com­bination in baseball (Gary Lavelle and Greg Minton). Their defense ( 173 errors in 1982) must improve for SF to have a chance. But as long as the Giants have Johnnie LeMaster ( .216) at shortstop, they will not win a title. 
Houston -the best news out of Houston is that Ray Knight's wife. golfer Nancy Lopez, is expecting (they've been married less than a year). That proves that the Astros have at least one talented performer. The worst news is that relieverJoe Sambito, who used to be baseball's best lefthanded reliever, is gone for another season with arm troubles. Ditto for the Astros' pennant hopes. 
Cincinnati -The former Big Red Machine has become nothing but a collection ofSmurfs -170-pound catcher Alex Trevino hit a Smurfy .251 with one home run; Dan Driessen's 17 HR's Jed the Reds. Beyond Mario Soto, there's nothing here; in fact, their In­dianapolis farm team would give them a good game. 










