~----~---~----------------------------------­
Sports special -page 11 


Chilled Billy Joe/fans listen to hear their names called as I D's are passed out on the steps ofLaFortune. 
--------------------------------------------­

Students angered by SU handling of ticket lottery for Billy Joel show 
By MARK.WORSCHEH 
News Editor 
Billy Joel might have been flat­tered, but many of his fans almost got flattened at yesterday's ticket lottery, organized by the Concert Commission ofthe Student Union. 
"I've been involved with lotteries before, and this is the most ridiculous one I've ever seen. It's five o'clock and I've been here since 

Protesters brave cold for speeches against Euromissile deployment 
By PAUL McGINN movement to "link arms across the ExecutiveEditor nation and across the Atlantic," Elisabeth Klaus of the Women's In­
More than 100 persons braved ternational League for Peace and near freezing temperatures yester­Justice termed the fight against day afternoon to hear speakers nuclear weapons "of existential sig­denounce the deployment of Persh­nificance for survival." ing II and cruise missiles in Europe. "Our thinking about nuclear 
Calling for members of the peace weapons is out of date," John Monczunski of Notre Dame Magazine said, adding "nuclear weapons ace a dead end." 


Monczunski, who heads the St. Joseph County Nuclear Freeze Cam­paign, cited a recent Parade magazine article in which scientist Carl Sagan predicted even a small­scale nuclear exchange would release so much soot into the atmos­phere that the temperature of the Northern Hemisphere would drop dramatically. 
Klaus, a German citizen working 
on her master's degree at Notre 
Dame, said the U.S. decision to 
deploy the missiles contradicts the 
will ofthe majority ofpeople in Wes­
tern European nations. 
"People in Western Europe want peace," and believe the deployment ofthe cruise and Pershing II missiles "will increase the probability that 'The Day After' will one day occur," said Klaus. 
Talk of a protracted nuclear wac 
frightens most Europeans, she said, 
because "there is no way to limit a 
nuclear wac." 
And even if NATO and the War­
saw Pact nations were able to fight a 
limited nuclear war in Europe, be­
tween five and 20 million people 
would die according to U.S. govern­
ment reports, she said. 
"Computer errors," Klaus added, 

2:30. It seems like it would have Nevertheless, Konrady said, "I taken a minimal amount of sense to don't feel we (the staff) did a bad move us to Washington Hall," said job. Even with better planning, the Bill Thaman, senior, as he braved the best I could have done was to put it cold outside of LaFortune Student in Stepan Center and use a form of Center. tickets instead ofiDs." 
"Kind of disorganized," com-"We expected to sell 1,500, and mented Sheila Kennedy, a freshman we ended up selling over 2,000 tick­from Saint Mary's. Some students ets. What caused the delay was that were even more emphatic in their students would put in five or six IDs. criticism ofthe event. From the point of view of the stu­
" I think it's obscene that they dents, I can see their strategy. Our can't run it any better than this. They problem was getting the IDs out fast should have anticipated the crowd enough." and held it in a bigger place," said Konrady added, "Everyone who Kevin McAlevy, a junior who at 5 purchased tickets will get tickets." 
p.m. had not been able to purchase The ACC will seat 12,000 for thejoel tickets. concert. 
Concert Commissioner Ed Kon-"In a typical student lottery we rady admitted a.."'terward the sell less than 1,000 tickets. In this mistakes were the result of poor one we sold 2,735 tickets," said planning on his part. "What hurt us james McDonnell, director of stu­was that I planned on only 400 dent activities. He said the largest showing up because of the timing of concert ever handled was the Bruce the lottery and of the high price of Springsteen show three years ago. the show." The lottery could not The lottery for that concert was "a have been moved to another loca­
see LOTIERY, page 6 

tion on such short notice, he said. 
Leftover IDs from lottery at Student Union office 
By MARK.WORSCHEH 
News Editor 
Students who did not pick up their ID cards after the Billy joel ticket lottery yesterday can retrieve them at the Student Union secretary's desk, said Ed Konrady, Student Union concert commis­sioner, last night 
The question ofwho will be liable for lost IDs, however, remained unanswered. As the lottery began to break up, several stacks ofIDs could be seen being passed through the crowd. Inside, dozens ofIDs were left on the Ombudsman counter as students attempted to retrieve their own and IDs offriends. 
james McDonnell, director of student activities, said the Student Union should be accountable for the cost ofreplacing any IDs. 
Konrady disagreed, saying, "I don't feel the Student Union should be liable. Ifsomeone put an ID into the barrel, he should have waited until the bitterend. Ifthey gave it to a friend, it's their risk, not ours." 
Nevertheless, Konrady added that the question of liability will 
have to be settled by the union. "I think that's a decision that the 
Student Union members will have to discuss among themselves," he 
said. 
"Whenever we deal with IDs, there is a chance they could be misplaced or taken by someone else. We minimized that as much as 


Start of food sales inspection disputed 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The Student Affairs Office and the 
Environmental Health and Safety 
Department have conflicting ac­
counts as to which of the two Uni­
versity offices initiated the recent 
health inspections of dormitory 
food sales. 
Michael McC auslin, Environmen­tal Health and Safety specialist, said yesterday that the investigation was entirely his idea. "The report in­itiated from my office. I initiated the report," he said. "There was no dis­cussion ofthe food sales issue in this office prior to late October." 
FatherJohn Van Wolvlear told The Obseroer Tuesday that problems with food sales conditions were dis­cussed at a meeting over the sum­mer and the group "decided that we've got to inspect them." He said he didn't remember exactly when the meeting took place or who at­tended. 
McCauslin said that he "was not 
aware ofwhat they discussed" at the 
meeting. "I was not there." 
Van Wolvleac said he contacted 
McCauslin concerning the issue af­
ter the summer meeting. 
McCauslin conducted the spot in­spections in November along with Fire Captains Mack Esenwein and Fred Schleiger, and Firefighter Wayne Bishop. 
He said that Van Wolvleac was the only person to receive a copy of his three-page letter which outlined the food sales inspections results. "There was only one copy ofthe let­ter. I have the original and Father Van Wolvlear has the copy," he ex­plained. 
In his letter, McC auslin said, "The health, sanitation, and fire safety conditions found within the residence hall food sales are deplorable." Unsafe food sto rage, improper and infrequent sanitation and waste disposal, and rodent in­festations were among the problems the letter cited. 
The letter went on to recommend limiting food sales to pre-packaged foods and requiring proper training for food sales operators. 
McCauslin said the allegations made by South Bend pizza supplies distributor Martin Milliken, linking University Food Service Director William Hickey with the food sale~ investigation were "absolutely untrue." 
He added that Wednesday's Ob­seroer article that included the al­legations "made it sound like (the 
investigation) was preplanned. That lends itself to a lot of problems in that it almost sounds like I got to­gether with Father Van Wolvleac and we assaulted the problem together. Father Van Wolvleac wasn't even aware ofwhat I was doing." 
Van Wolvleac, however, said the Student Affairs Office did play a role in the investigation. "If something endangers the life or health of our students we (Student Affairs) must respond," he said. 
He added that the Milliken allega­
tions were "a complete fabrication." 
McCauslin said the Environmen­
tal Health and Safety office is under 
see FOOD, page 3 

humanly possible," said Konrady.
Eli.sabeth Klaus urges the halt ofEuromissile deployment. see MISSILE, page 4 

The Observer Friday, December 2, 1983-page 2 

In·Brief · 
' . 
Three Saint Mary's students told police they 
were robhed of S56.25 at gunpoint Wednesday night as they walked through the parking lot north of Bridget McGuire's tavern, I025 South Bend Avenue:. The incident occurred at approximately 10:40 'Jl.m. According to Cpl. Doug Way of the South Bend Police Depart­ment. the students, all in their early twenties, were approached by three males, one ofwhom had a gun. The suspects were described as black, approximately 5 feet 7 inches tall and in their late teens. One was wearing a tan jacket with a black hood, another wore a maronn jacket and a third wore a light-colored jacket. -The Observer 
A student at Michigan State University 
was found dead after he apparently fell from a 6-foot homemade loft as he slept in his dorm room. Benjamin Weber, 19, of Mason, Mich., died Saturday afternoon, according to campus security officer Jay Jensen. Results of an autopsy were not immediately available. In response to the death, Dean of Students James Roemer has sent a letter to hall rectors urging them "to be vigilant about enforcing our loft regulations at the very beginning ofthe year but at all other times also." Notre Dame requires lofts to be no higher than seven feet off the floor, and no closer than three feet to the ceiling. A working smoke detector is also required. -The Obseroer 
A Notre I>ane jwlior reported to South Bend 
Police that two men robbed him of $10 in the parking lot ofCorby's Tavern, I 026 Corby Blvd., on Monday. The student said that at ap­proximately 8 p.m. two men approached him, demanded money and then fled south on Eddy Street. A description ofthe assailants was not available. -The ObsenJ£'T 
Transpo, the local bus company, will be offering free bus service from I 0 a.m. until I p.m. on the four Satur­days before Christmas. This free service will be available on every regular Transpo route to all riders. The primary purpose of this service is to offer shoppers a convenient travel alternative for holiday shopping. Transpo routes can take you to downtown South Bend and Mishawaka and to most popular shopping areas. Buses kavc: Notre Dame from the: library circk and the main gate and fares are normally 50 cents. -The Obsen,er 
Keenan Revue or2anizers have changed the 
opening night of this year's show from Thursday, Feb. 2, to avoid a contlict with the Hilly Joel concert slated for the same night in the ACC. Director Randy Fahs said another performance of the annual campus variety show will probably be scheduled on either Wednes­day night, Feb. I, or Sunday afternoon, Feb. 5. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
A Liberty Bowlpackage has been put together by the Student l :nion. The package includes a $56 bus trip from South Bend to Memphis. making one stop in Chicago, and two nights at a Ramada Inn in Memphis (Dec. 28-29 ). Students may sign up for the packagt· at the Student Union Record Store. The deadline is Dec. I5. 
-1be Obsen,er 
Twenty-one Auschwitz officials on trial in 
Frankh,lrt, Germany I963-65: This is the text ofTheInvestigation by Peter Weiss which opens tonight at 8 in the Center for Continuing Education. The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production presents a portion of the horrific events at Auschwitz. Tickets may be purchased at the door or reserved by calling 284-4626.-The Obsen,er 
Pianist Barry Snyder. soloist with Atlanta, Detroit, llouston and National Symphonies, will hold a concert at 4 p.m. Sun­day. The program in the Annenberg Auditorium ofthe Snite Museum of Art is sponsored by the Department of Music. Snyder first ac­hit·ved intt·rnational prominence in I966 when he won three prizes at the Van Cliburn competition, including the silver medal and the chamber music award. He has studied with V.M. Sokolov and Cecile Staub Genhart and will appear with the Montreal Symphony later this yt·ar. -The Obserr,er 
Looking for a Wlique Christmas gift? The Giant Hall in O'Shaughnessy will be the site ofa pottery and card sale today until 5 p.m. The annual event is co-sponsored by The Snite Museum of Art and the Ceramics Department of the Department of Art, Art History and Design. -The Obsen,er 

VVeather . 
Partlycloudyand warmer today with 20 percent chance of light snow. High in the mid 30s. Decreasing cloudiness and cold tonight. Low around 20. Mostly cloudy tomorrow, with a slight chance oflight snow. High in the mid 30s. -AP 


Bye, bye pizza and beer 
Crackdown? 
The thought has been echoing around campus lately 
as more and more student privileges and campus or­
ganizations have been subject to a tightening of con­
trols by the University. 
Perhaps the most blatant case-in-point is the food 
sales controversy between the Office ofStudent Affairs, 
the Campus Environmental Health and Safety Office, 
and the managers of the individual hall food sales. 
Faced with the threat of being closed down by the 
University for recently uncovered safety violations, 
managers of several dorll'\ food sales have questioned 
the motives behind the University-conducted health in­
vestigation. 
"I'd say they're cracking down," Grace Foodsales 
Manager Mike Levchuck said. "As I see it, a foodsales is 
selling and preparing food so they should be subject to 
an inspection. I just think it's peculiar that Leprechaun 
Pizza Company comes in and they're cracking down on 
foodsales." 
Likewise, South Bend piz­
za distributor Martin Mil­
liken has accused University 
Food Services Director Bill 
Hickey of "trying to put all 
the food sales out of the 
business so he can sell his 
own pizzas" through the 
Leprechaun Pizza Company. 
Hickey has responded: "There is no truth to those allegations whatsoever ... there is no plot on our part. Leprechaun Pizza is designed to respond to a stu­dent need and if there is no market for it we'll get out of it." 
Taken by itself, the food sales controversy might not point to a crackdown per se by the . But, from being an isolated incident, it points to a more in­tense, widespread crackdown at Notre Dame. 
Look at the rash of issues relating to University con­trol that have erupted during just the past few months: 
• 
The senior privilege of being exempt from final ex­ams is threatened by a University proposal to mandate finals for all seniors. If the proposal passes, accounting students graduating in May will face the compromising siwation of having to take finals at approximately the same time as the CPA exam. 

• 
The NO Commission on the Responsible Use ofAl­cohol, under the leadership of Father William Beauc­hamp, is considering eliminating or seriously restricting the use ofalcohol on campus. 

• 
The Obsen1er has been ordered to join the Univer­sity's Unit Budget System by Jan. I or face the cutoffof approximately $70,000 in student fees. The move would place all Observer finances in the Administra­


.,
,, 
f-.-The_Obs.er.Yer_  
Composition Editor.................. Tom Small  
Composition Assistant ........ Cheryl Pilon  
Typesetters ...................... Michelle and Ted  
News Editor......................... ) eft Harrington  
Copy Editor............................. Amy Stephan  
Sports Copy Editor............... Mike Sullivan  
Features Copy Editor....... Sarah Hamilton  
Editorials Layout ............... Ken Cerabona  
Features Layout........................ Mary Healy  
ND Day Editor................... Kathleen Doyle  
SMC Day Editor............... Mary Ann Potter  
Ad Design ....................................... Bob Slota  
Photographer........... ..... Carol Gales  
Guest Appearances........ ()bst:"rver Hoops  
("\l'ho needs a zone: when we've got a  
press like Jim Gantht·r's" ). American In·  
stitute of Architects, Kristin's marriage  
proposal, KJT. to have a friend you have  
to be one  
Quote of tbe Day  
Rumor has it that Emil}' is still alir•e  
The Obaerver (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday 'lnd on home football Salurdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObMrver IS published by lhe studenls of Notre Dame and Satnt Mary·s College. Subscnpltons may be purchased for $25 per y~ar ($15 per semeslei\ by writtng the Obaerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Darr:e. Indiana 46556. The Obeerver ts a member of The Aaaoclllled Pren. All reproduction nghts are reserved.  

THE PROGRESSIVE MUSIK CLUB AND Student Union present the 
WHITE X-MAS PARTY Sot., Dec. 3 Cost: S1 Chautauqua 9-? 
Free Records to the First 200 People 

rrllllllllllllltHIIIIHIII.........IIIIHIIIHIIII_.IIHIHIIIHHIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIII"I 
$2STUDENT & FACULTY DISCOUNT 
Show your I. D. card and receive our regular $7 haircut for $5. $14 shampoo/cu.t/blow dry style for$12. 
(No additional discount cards or coupons accepted) 

THE ROYAL LANCER 
University Commons Courtyard 
(S.R. 23 next to Tempo Fashions) ~ w(jl~~ri$ ~re ~elcome 
Weekdays 9-6 Saturday 9·3 Men and Women's Hairstyling 272-7880 . -' 

.....ltiiHHIIIIHIHHIHHIIIHIIIHHIIMIII...IH..........IIHIIIIHIIIIIIII.....IMIIIIIIHI 
.., ..;: ,.. ~ ., ,_ -.. ' " " "II' ., 'fl. J. '&. " If • • II . -w • • ,. it< .: "'.1_ ,.. 1/f...;."'.J~_-"'L._~'l';• .• _r'"...I;.T_' . • 
Jeff Harrington 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Frid 


tion's control. 

• The University has refused to release statistical in· formation about Group Health Insurance plans to faculty members who requested it after insurance costs were increased earlier this year. 
In a period of growing liberalization, it appears the University is trying to buck the trend and move toward more centralized control of all departments at Notre Dame. 
What is startling about these developments is that the same recurring motive un­derlies the University's ac­tions: in nearly all areas of the crackdown, the Ad­ministration is concerned with liability. It simply does not want to leave itselfopen for lawsuits as it has in the past. 
Why institute a dry campus? To adhere to the In­
II diana 21 drinking age and avoid liability for the be­havior of drunken students on campus. 
Why bring The Observer under University control? To insure accountability and to keep the paper from printing anything "outrageous," Father Hes­
burgh says, thereby avoiding the possibility of lawsuits cropping up. Why outlaw making pizzas in the dorms? To avoid the chances of being sued for food poisoning , Is it coincidental that the University has decided to tighten its grip in so many areas at the same time? 
Is it coincidental that the crackdown has occurred at the same time that NO i~ t:oncerned with liability in the shadow ofseveral recent lawsuits? 
The University will keep pushing and battering down the hatches of free enterprise if students don't push back. The move toward incorporating all activities on campus under the rigid control of the administration is bound to continue unopposed. 
The administration has been blessed with a docile student body -one which accepts any and all intru­sions on its freedom. 
But, the "lay-back-and-let-it-be" philosophy of stu­dents could break down if the Administration goes too far. It's up to the students to decide if that breaking point has been reached. 
•. 

The Observer Friday, December 2 , 1983 -page 3 

Rocky Bleier highlights schedule of Junior Parents' Weekend events 



DECEMBER 1, 2 & 3 8:00p.m. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM-ST. MARY'S COLLEGE ADMISSION: $3-50 Advance, $4.00 At the door TICKETS available at S.U-RECORD STORE, LaFORTUNE INFORMATION: 239·5213 
FIDDLER ON THE ROOF based on Sholem Aleichem stories by penrission of Arnold Peri Book by• JOSEPH STEIN Music by• JERRY BOCK Lyrics byoSI£LDON HARNIC~ Produced on the New York Sta&e by Harold Prince 
Original New York Stage Production 
Directed and Choreographed by JEROME ROBBINS 
Are you considering professional school? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT 
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. 
Come Leam About Han>ard's Two-Year Master's Program in Pul1lic Policy, Leading to either tin• Master in Pu/Jlic Policy or City mtd l~egional Planning Degree. 
MEET WITH: Sally Sachar, Admissions Officer. DATE: Monday, December 5 at lOam and llam CONTACT: Career Services Office 
All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! Joint Degree Programs Offered with Haruard's othL•r Professional Schools. Generous Cross-Registration l'ril'ileges with other Schools. 
soon as possible. He also encourages 
juniorswhose parentscannot attend 
to participate in the events: "We'd 
really like to see the whole junior 
class attend the activities. It's one of 
the few opportunities to have the 
whole class involved." 
Juniors needing information pack­
ets may pick them up at the Student 
Activities Office in LaFortune. 
HolyC~oss 
•
service group publicized 
By BUD LUEfJKE 
News Staff 
Informational slide shows will be 
shown next week by the Holy Cross 
Associates in an effort to publicize 
their one year, post-graduate 
program ofChristian service. 
M.]. Murray, who participated in 
the program last year, is coordinat­
ing the presentations. Murray said 
the purpose of the slide shows is 
primarily to generate more 
knowledge of the program in the 
student body. 
Although she said the program has 
no shortage of volunteers, Murray 
indicated she would like to see more 
students considering the Holy Cross 
Associates as an option. "It (the 
program) provides the student with 
a reflection period after college and 
an opportunity to do Christian 
service," she said. 
Murray described her experience 
in the program as remarkably 
"simple." The year involves living as 
a community in a single house with 
five to six persons. Each volunteeer 
works for some social agency, such 
as helping the elderly or a minority 
group, and is paid $5,200 per year 
for his or her services. The low 
wages save the agencies money. 
Members ofeach house pool their 
salaries and use the money to buy 
food, clothing and other items. All 
cooking and household jobs are 
done by the community, · 
The Holy Cross Associates cur­
rently has houses in four cities: 
Colorado Springs, Colo.; Phoenix, 
Ariz.; Portland, Ore.; and Haywood, 
Calif 
The presentations will be held 
Sunday Dec. 4 after 10:30 p.m. Mass 
in Grace Pit, Monday Dec. 5 at 6:45 
p.m. in the Center for Social Con­cerns, Tuesday Dec. 6 at 7:30p.m. in Dillon, and Monday Dec. 12 at 4 p.m. 
· in the Saint Mary's Student Affairs Room. 
• • . Food 
continuedjrompage 1 
the jurisdiction ofthe vice president for business affairs. "We take care of all the environmental health issues on campus," he said. The depart­ment is set up to "protect the health and safety of University employees and students," he added. 
McCauslin, who joined the Health and Safety staff in February, said he has been involved with commercial food occupational safety inspecting, consulting, and designing service equipment for "about six years." 
"Most things we (Health and Safety) do are just done within this office and ·then we deal with the department head whom the problem involved," McCauslin said. 
McCauslin refused to release the hall-by-hall breakdown of the inves­tigation saying, "I don't think that's the type of thing that should be published in the newspaper." 
Van Wolvlear could not be 
reached yesterday for further com­
ment. 
By MARY HEILMANN 
News Staff 
A dance, the Presidential Dinner, and an address by former Notre Dame football star Rocky Bleier highlight activities planned for Junior Parents' Weekend, to be held Feb. 17-19. 
Junior Mike Schmutz, chairman for the weekend's planning commit­tee, announced the schedule for the annual event, commenting that some changes and innovations promise to make the weekend "an event which all juniors can par­ticipate in and enjoy." 
The festivities begin Friday night with a dance in the upstairs con­course and basketball arena of the ACC, featuring a live band, cocktails, and an international food buffet of ethnic hors d'oeuvres. 
Saturday offers a wide range ofac­tivities, beginning with academic presentations by the Colleges ofArts and Letters, Engineering, Science, and Business. A reception im­mediately afterward will provide both students and their parents the opportunity to meet with faculty 
members on an individual basis. 
Performances by the jazz bands and Shenanigans, as well as a showing of the film "Wake Up the Echoes," are scheduled for late after­noon. The entertainment will be followed at 5 p.m. with a Mass in the ACC celebrated by Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president and the annual Presidential Dinner. Throughout the day, the Center for Social Concerns will conduct an open house for juniors and their parents. 
The weekend will conclude on Sunday with a brunch at 10:30 in­stead of the earlier breakfast served in previous years. Former Notre Dame football player and Pittsburgh Steeler Rocky Bleier will be the guest speaker for this event. 
Information concerning hotel 
availability and complete descrip­
tions and schedules for all events 
have been sent to the parents of 
every junior. Total cost for the 
weekend, which includes admission 
for three persons to the dance, 
Presidential Dinner, and brunch, is 
$102.50. 
Reservation deadline is January 
31, but Schmutz advises students to 
make their hotel reservations as 



The Observer Friday, December 2, 1983-page 4 
Scholars study Thomas Merton 
Special to the Observer 
S<:holars from across the U.S. are 
coming to Saint Mary's Little Theatre 
De::. I 0 to participate in a day-long 
conference to examine the life and 
writings of Thomas Merton, con­
sidered hy many the most influential 
Catholic writer in the 20th century. 
The conti.·rence, titkd "Thomas Merton 15 \ears Later: The Dif­ti.·rt.•nce lie Makes," will consist of st.·minars dedicated to the monk's contributions to philosophy, art and the Church. 
Merton. who entt.·red the Trappist monastery of Gethsemani in 194 I, died in Bangkok, Thailand, on Dec. 10 I%H. 
A prolific writer, Merton wrote numt.•rous books and articles about most every social and religious issue 
• • . Missile 

continuedfrom page I 
havt.· "happened beforr" and make 
nuclear war less controllable. 
Deployment of the Euromissiles 

may "have dire consequences for 
the NATO alliance." said 
J\1onczunski. 
Klaus said women have an "important and powerful role" in the pt.·ace movt.•mt.·nt ht.·eause tht.·y havt.· "a strong desire to create life, not destroy Iik." 
"Women art.· not weak hut strong," sht.· said. 
Monczunski said the l I.S. could karn much ahout the mind of the Soviet leadnship if it studied the recent downing of the Korean Airlines jet more closely. 
The Soviet Union is "an incredibly paranoid society" that "cannot even patrol its own hordt.·rs" and which "is willing to shoot firM and ask ques­tions afin." ht.· said. 
Pt.·rsons should write their Senator~ and Reprt.·sentatives, Monczunski said, and urge them to stop Euromissile dt.·ployment and to work tor hettt.·r pt.·an· agreements with tht.· Sovkt l :nion which t.·nsurt.· veritlahk reductions of nuckar weapons. 
OVERSEAS JOBS 
Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer.. Australia, Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightseeing_ Free info. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 


Fri. & Sat. Nite 
SMOKESTACK LIGHTNING BLUES BAND 
Featuring: 
Fresh Blue Point Oysters & 
Large Gulf Shrimp 
Jazz & Blues 6 nights a week 
Open 5pm TUES. THRU SAT. 7pmSUNDAY 

during the I940s, 1950s, and 1960s. 
His most famous works include, The Set,en Storey Mountain -an early autobiography, Conjectures of a Guilty Bystander, and The Sign of jonas. 
Sister Elena Malits, professor of 
religious studies at Saint Mary's, 
opens the conference at 9:30 am. 
with a lecture titled, ''Why and How 
to Celebrate the 15th Anniversary of 
Merton's Death." 
Malits, who has done extensive research on the life and work of Mer­ton, is the author ofThe Solitary Ex­plorer, a book on the spiritual development of the monk. It was published by Harper & Row in 19HO. 
Paul E. Dinter, Catholic chaplain 
at Columhia University, will discuss 
"Merton, Nonviolence and the Bis­
hop's Pa~toral Letter on the Eve of 
1984" at I 0 a.m. 
John Yoder, theology professor at 
Notre Dame, will deliver the 
response. 
A slide presentation will accom­
pany a lecture on "The Spiritual 
Dimensions in Photography" by 
Saint Mary's art professor Douglas 
Tyler at 11 a.m. 
Victor Kramer, English professor at Georgia State University, will present "Merton's Love ofLanguage: Words as Enslavers and Liberators," at II:30 a.m. Gail Mandell, religious studies professor at Saint Mary's, will deliver the response. 
Religion professor at Florida State University Lawrence Cunningham will speak about "Thomas Merton: High Culture and Spirituality" at 2 
p.m. Ann Clark, philosophy profes­sor at Saint Mary's, will deliver the response. 
Saint Mary's music professor Melanie Rutledge will sing selec­tions from "The Merton-Niles song Cycle" at 3 p.m. Composer John Niles is responsible for setting many of Merton's poems to music. 
Keith Egan, Saint Mary's religious studies department chairman, will direct a panel discussion on "Merton and Mysticism" at 3:30p.m. 
Panel members are to include Notre Dame theology professors Eileen Kearny, Father Thomas O'Meara, and F. Ellen Weaver. Reynold Feldman, of the Northeas­tern Illinois University Center for 
Simon Wiesenthal, bead of the jewish Documentation Center Program Development, will also par­was attacked in a courtroom Wednesday as be was togive evidence as witness in the so-called Neo-Nazi Trial.
ticipate. 



They power the Irish with their enthusiasm. Rock the ACC with their cheers. They're Notre Dame stu~ 
dents, faculty, friends. Roaring their 
support. Civing their team a 
sixth man. setting college 
basketball's finest ex~ 
ample of spirit and 
sportsmanship. 
._i.E 
CJJringingAr.Jericahome. CJJringingAmerica fun. 
©1983 Skyline Corporation, Elkhart, Indiana 46514 A leading producer of manuf::J.ctured housing and recreational vehicles. 

The Observer Friday, December 2 , 1983 -page 5 

ANTOSTAL 
EXECUTIVE STAFF POSITIONS BEING FILLED 
--details and applications available at Student Union. 
--application deadline Friday, December 2. 
G~tWf'LL 
RESTAI'IIA/11 ~ eoetiAil lOU/liE SzEeHUNI -CAIITONE$1-AIIERIIWI SUPER LUNCH SPECIAL 
Any combination plate includes: soup, Egg Roll, Fried Rice, Entree and Hot Tea .. 
ONLY$2.95 


Drinks• Dinger 
Prices 
Brian & Mary G. appearing every 
Fri. &Sat. 9p.m. -1a.m. Open 7 Days a Week Happy Hour 5 to 7 p.m. 

HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS 
Mon.-Thur 11:X>am.-10:00p.m. A WEEK ~ri. & Sat. 11:30 a.m.-11:00 p.m. Sun_ & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH 
Happy Hour 5-7 P.M. SOUTH BEND(Roseland) 
BAN,QUET ROOMS & Next to Randall'~ lr.,, GROUP RAn~ AVAILABLE 
Corby's "Beat UCLA" Weekend 
FRI: 3-6 PM Applications: 
2ndseme~erbartende~ 
FRI: Happy Hour 3-8 PM SAT: Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 
SAT: Go! ND BEAT UCLA! 
The New Owners of the Ice House Present 
..._-1--~~ir~o I I I I
1 I 
I 
LIBERTY BOWL 
NOTRE BOSTON DAME COLLEGE 
$184* 
Motorcoach·, H.oh•1, *J1t•r Jlt'h''"'Q\Md 
f-.111 f·oor l!o~Jhlt• · 
1ic h•t, Prt>gamto 
or 'lfl~h·· r.dl.t', Jir 
Party and mon• ... ol\ollloltllt•. 
December 2H thru December 30 
For Reservations Call... ~source 236-2656 
... aank 
239-(7089) (6682) Badin Hall 284·2607 (Haggar College Center) 
SMCgranted unrestricted $5,000 funds 
By MEGAN KOREMAN 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's College has received a S5,000 unrestricted operating grant from Household International, a multi-industry corporation based in Illinois. 
Money from an unrestricted grant is usually put into the Colleg's operating fund rather than designated for any specific purpose, according to the Saint Mary's Development Office. 
In announcing this grant, Donald Clark, president of Household Inter­national, said, "We base this grant on the institution's interest in economic issues. Household's program is designed to support in­stitutions which encourage discus­sion of the principles of a free-market economy consistent with a free society." 
"Programs which support the general concept of the preservation and improvement of a free­enterprise system and the environ­ments in which it operates are also ofinterest to the corporation." 
Saint Mary's is one of 36 private colleges and universities, including Notre Dame, to receive a new un­restricted operating grant from Household International this year. The Prospect, Illinois, based cor­poration has also made 25 ongoing grants to educational institutions this year. 
Besides the unrestricted operat­ing grants, Household's Support for Higher Education program also makes research grants to depart­
ments  specializing  in  finance,  
merchandising,  engineering,  
transportation  and  insurance.  

Household has contibuted more than $3.97 million to American col­leges and universities since the program began in 1956. 
Erratum 
Because of an editing error, a story on actor James Earl Jones in Wednesday's Observer did not con­tain a byline. Karen McCloskey, a member of the Obsen>er news stafi wrote the story. 


young men 16-35
SYMBOL ... "OF THE MAN WHO RECEIVES IN GIVING" 
FRANCISCANS 
1/wd ()It~ !<~ 
DIRECTOR OF VOCATIONS, FRANCISCANS, TOR 2006 EDGEWATER PARKWAY SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND 20903 
Please send me the free booklet at no obligatioll. 
NO
Name age Address 
City State____ Zip,___ (Check preference) Priesthood Brotherhood ~­

150fo Discount ~ not including . 

· sale ttems 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
University Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

The Observer Friday, December 2 , 1983 -page 6 
• • . Lottery 

continuedfrom page 1 
mess," ht· said. "A lot of peopk showed up, and peopk were: waiting in line: all day." 
The lout·ry was supposed to begin at 2:~0 p.m., hut the Nazz -in the: hascmt·nt of Lafortune -began to ovt.-rtlow shortly after 2. By 2:30, whl·n the Concert Comission arrived, the Nazz was compktdy packed. ''They pickc:d a table in the: radius of five feet around it, hut there was no way," said Vincent DeMarco. a senior. "Thc:y just came in there with boxes ofenvelopes and a t:ash box. No one really knew how many tickets you could get for each ID," he said. 
The organizers began asking for slllde.Jts to deposit their IDs in a metal trash em. Since many of the students had heard more than one ID t:ould he entered, the can quickly fillt:d. Konrady estimated 1,200 IDs Wl're deposited. 
Konrady ~-oaid he had no choice hut to movt: it outside at that point. "It would have been a good choice in Septembt:r, hut a poor one in November," ht: admitled. The tern· pnature was 26 degrees at j p.m. yesterday. 
Once outside, Konrady and other voluntt:ers began drawing IDs from the can and shouting names of win· ners from tht: steps of the west entrance of!.aFortune to the crowds below, more than 20 persons deep into tht· Main Quad. 
Winners had to make their way to tht· entrance and then take a num· hered envdopt: back to the Nazz to purchase tickets. Each winner could order six tickets. 
Constantly having to ask the 
crowd to move back from the top of 
the stairs was om: problem Konrady 
cited as causing delays in the lottery. 
"At least I 0 times we had to push the 
crowd back," he said. "There was a 
constant parade of people checking 
to sec if their names were called." 
The process lasted until aimost S 
p.m. when a number of students decided to go to dinner; however, many ofthese students had not been able to get their IDs back. Other volunteers then grabbed stacks of IDs and began shouting names to the crowd. Meanwhile, some stacks were passed through thc students themsclvcs. 
At S: IS, Konrady movcd thc can inside LaFortune, and the lobby area took on the appearance of the tloor of thc Ncw York Stock Exchange with five diffcrent persons standing on tables shouting names at one point. 
Konrady announced to the crowd at S:30: "If all you need your IDs for is to eat dinncr, go on ahead. They will let you eat without your IDs tonight." Yet, delays occurred at the North Dining Hall as checkers re­quired students without IDs to fill out chargc slips. The dining hall staff rcportedly told students that they must return with their charge receipts and thcir IDs to avoid get­ting charged. 
As the crowd began to dwindle, the remd.ining IDs were spread out over the Ombudsman counter. At S:45, more than 150 IDs remained unclaimed. Tom McCabe, a fresh­man still looking for his ID, com­mented, "You would think they would know from the past. Don't they care? There should be some other systcm." 
McDonnell termed the confusion of the lottery "horrible;" however, he could not recommend any soiu· tions to the problem. "Students can easily work it out. I don't think its my job to determine how to run a lot· tcry. Students should be able to do that," he said. 
Konrady said he was "willing to take suggestions" as to the best way to run the next lottery. 
Theo prof speaks on 'Mary Myth' 
Special to The Observer 
Josephine Ford, a Notre Dame theology professor will deliver a talk titled, "Mary: 'Who do you say that I am?" Monday at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Ford's presentation "will be pas­torally and biblically oriented 
··directed at demytht)logizing th~ 'Mary myth' and making Mary come alive within the problems of today's world," according to a spokesman for the Notre Dame Women in Theology Organization, which is sponsoring the talk. 

Embassy shutdown 
Mahmoud Nourani, the Iranian Charge d'Affairs in Beirut who is being expelledfrom the country holds his band up as be speaks to sbiite demonstrators at the Iranian embassy Wednesday. :.:.::::::::::::::::::::::;::;;:::::;:;:;:::;:::::;:::;:;:;:::::::::::;:::::::::::~: ~:::;:::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:: 
JUGGLERS now available, FREE, at 309 O'Shaughnessy 
!l.............,.::.:....:.:..i.:....:.:.::.:...~.:.:~.:.:.·.....,.................... 
ATTENTION!!! 

ALL CALIFORNIA STUDENTS 
CAN EITHER YOU OR YOUR PARENTS STILL USE FINANCIAL AID THIS YEAR? 
The CLAS :+ loan program is now available to California students and their parents. The program which 1s similar to the Guaranteed Student Loan Program (GSLPJ allows parents to borrow up to $3.000 per year to help with educational costs. It is also available to independent undergraduates and graduate students. 
This program is made avail­able through the California 
I 

Student Loan Authority. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION SEND THIS COUPON TO THE: 
CALIFORNIA STUDENT LOAN AUTHORITY 
915 Capitol Mall, Room 280 
Sacramento, CA 95814 
.e. ~ 
Name: _________________ 
Address: --------------------­
School:-----------------­

California Loans to Assist Students 



The Observer 
A long winter's nap 
might have been interrupted occasionally as Sheltered by his heavy coat and beret, senior LaFortune was the site ofa bustle ofstudent ac­jack Arends settles down for a long winter's nap tivityyesterday -from theEuromissle rally to the 
tn the social centerat LaFortune Center. His sleep Billyjoel ticket lottery. 
....-....-......-.­

Carlos Sweeney's 
Carlos presents his STUDENT SPECIAL Bring in Coupon and receive $1.00 off any lunch or dinner entree 
•••••••••••••••n•••••••••••••••••••u••-••••••••••••••••••••••-..•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

-Carlos Buck 139 W. McKinley Ave. $1.00 of any entree Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 Dinner Special Limit: one coupon per visit, per personCoupon Good Anytime 
_______......., __ ­

4,000 Pieces of Clothing 
New shipments every other day. 
~  Stop in o.fte';l!  
Goodwill Plaza  
Eddy Sf 8t South Bend Ave.  Mon.-Thurs. 9·7, Fri. 9-8, Sat. 9-6.  

:;~ 
.Friday, December 2, 1983-page 7 
Social group launches adoption of families 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTT and clothing back from Thanksgiv­News Staff ing break for their "family." Families were assigned before break, so the 
The Social Justice Commission at students knew what to bring from Saint Mary's is sponsoring an Adopt­home. Also, students are asked to A-Family program to provide food donate !II so necessary items can be and clothing for approximately 18 purchased for the families. families this holiday season, accord­The Social Justice Commission ing to Angela Attanasio, chairman of plans to collect donations of food, the SocialJustice Commission. clothing, and money on Dec. 5. 
Names of families in need were These will be distributed to families obtained by the commission from before final exams. Items will be the Saint Vincent DePaul Society. a sorted and the money will be pooled charity organization in South Bend. "because we don't want.. one 
All halls are participating in the family having a total over­program, however each hall works abundance and then another family differently in deciding on the num­not really having anything at all," ber offamilies they will sponsor, said said Attanasio. Attanasio. "People representing e.very facet of campus life at Saint Mary's College are involved," she 
Erratum
added. 
Students from almost I 5 different Ticket sales for the Feb. 2 Billy clubs and organizations are helping Joel concert will go on sale at 9 a.m. this year. Efforts to get the entire Monday, not at 10 a.m. Monday, campus involved with helping the according to ACC Programs Direc­needy can largely be attributed to tor Joe Sassano. This mistake oc­Annie Day ofthe Christian Life Com­curred in the Observer mission, said Attanasio. advertisement which appeared on 
Students were asked to bring food page 12 yesterday. 
, 
Chautauqua presents 
''Jimi Hendrix'' 
Tuesday, December 6 7,9,11 Admission $1.00 
~ 
11'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''"'"',,,,,,,,,,,' ,,,,' ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,'',,,,.,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,',,,,.,.,'',,'',,,,'',,,,',,,,'''•'''•'''''•'',,,,''''''',,,,',,'''•''''',,'··:: 

••••  ••  
II  I  
II  I ~  
l ..r:~~~~.!~~~~;e:c~mbleton  ....  

t Gqd's Prqmise &Our Respqnse '' { 
li Mon~~~~~~~~~ ~u~~iumSpm 
1t.·.· -~.!_;_~ 
{ B 
I, Sponsored by: Offrce of Campus Ministry ~ 
~Ni:=~=:=~=:::::::::::::::=~=~=~=~=:=~=:::::::::==========:====~==========================:=:===================:======:====~=~=:=:=~=:=~=;=~=~=~====================================·=·==·= 

View~oint 
Friday, December 2 , 1983 -page 8 

The need for collective bargaining 
the threat to strike, labor has virtually no what is generally agreed is a socially desirable power. manner, somethingfrom which we all benefit. 
They are though a small price to pay for the The bargaining process, since it allows benefits we all enjoy from collective bargain­groups to solve problem!> on their own, is very ing as a whole. The collective bargaining sys­consistem with our idcWi of personal and tem helps distribute income and power in eomomic freedom. 

As the Greyhound strike enters its fourth week with few signs of settlement in the near future, the public eye is again jolted toward that mysterious process called coUective bargaining. 
l\1ichael Skelly Back again 
-------------------------~ 
Wht·never we experience strikes that have such :m immediate impact on the public, (Greyhound carrkd S 7 million passengers last year) questions inevitably arise about the workability ofour systems of resolving labor­management contlict. 
And this will no doubt be inueasingly the GISt' in the near future as unions struggle for their shart·s of tht· ocndits from th1.: current economic upturn. 
What is often ovt·rlooked however is the remarkable success that our system of col­lective bargaining at:hit"vcs in resolving the in­t•vitablc contlicts in industrial relations. Moreovt·r the bend1ts reapt·d by the general public from such contlicts, including strikes, goes virtually unnotin·d. 
To appreciate just how we benefit from the usually qukt collt·ctive bargaining process, in which tht· two private partks of labor and management sit down collectively and work out their dift(:rences, it is worthwhile to con­sidt'r the alternatives to our current system. 
One alternative is a binding decision by a third party, usually a governmental one. The disadvantage here is that when a outside party makes wage and policy decisions, neither party is likely to be satisfied. 
But when unions and management sit down privately and work out disagreements themselves, and freely agree to the final outcome, the likelihood of dissatisfaction is greatly diminished. 
Another means of settling inevitable con­flicts would be for the government to take control ofthe economy and decide politically who gets what. This, needless to say, is ex­tJ:emely unlikely, at least in this country. 
Others have gone so far as to say that unions should be scrapped altogether, that they have somehow outlived their usefulness. This argu­ment seems naive at best and dangerous at worst. One need only look at those countries where unions arc illegal to realize why workers must have a check to place upon the often overwhelming power of their employers. 
We must remember that the process ofcol­lective bargaining is not an exercise in pure reason, it is rather the interaction ofeconomic power. For this reason, outcomes are not al­ways as fair or as efficient as possible. Un­economic work practices and blatant exploitation alike are sometimes the result. 
Strikes too are part of the price we pay for free collective bargaining. Despite the heavy publicity they often receive, strikes are still relatively rare. Last year less than one fifth of one percent of working days were lost to strikes. 
Though they often do represent an incon­venience to the public, such as the Greyhound strike, they are an integral part of the bargaining process. For without strikes or 
P. 0. BoxQ 


Why the rush? 
Dear Editor: 

Tht· llnivcrsity committee appointed by the Provost to study the subject of final exams rnTntly brought thdr recommendations to the Academic Council, and hoped to have their proposals voted on that aftt·rnoon. Luck­ily, t•nough faculty members and students urgt·d for a postponement of that vote until they could discuss the matter further. To ap­provt· the plan as it presently exists would be highly dt·trimt·ntal to every undergraduate studt·nt at Notrt· Dame. 
Tht· most glaring omission in tht' commit­
tee's rt•port is tht· absence of any student 
vkwpoint. Many important issues connet·ted 
with final examinations are never mentioned, 
and in othn cases are not givt·n sufficient at­
tention. 

Tht· proposal as it now stands would mandate that all final exams be cumulative, two-hour tests worth no more than two­thirds, hut no kss than one-third ofa student's final gradt·. At tht· same time, however, the limit on the numbt·r ofexams per day, and tht· numhn ofstudy days would not change. 
This means that a student could have three exams in a .24 hour period (or four in a 26 hour period), a!l of which would cover all courst· material and count as 6 7 percent of final grades in those classes. Such a systt·m is, quite bluntly, wholly absurd. 
Tht· ont· study day which now exists is high­ly insufficient, and to weigh finals more would make mattt-rs even worse. 'While looking at how to make finals more important, many of the problems li1r students resulting from the propost·d changt·s were ignored. 
( :onsidt-ring that the new regulations would not go into effect until the next academic year, there is no need to hastily rush this issue through. With a little cooperation, an equitable and effective system for final ex­ams could he devised using administrative, faculty anti s<udcnt input. To make any com­mitments without further discussion would be highly regrettable and a great mistake. 
Brian Callaghan Student Body President 
Dining workers 
Dear Editor: 
The University of Notre Dame students are affiliated with numerous human rights groups. The students concern themselves with issues in Central America, South Afrk:a, Poland and many other faraway places. World-wide inter­est in basic human liberties and rights is very charitable and conscientious of our students, but there are ample opportunities for charity to begin at home. 
I refer to the multi,minority and non­minority work force here on campus, par­ticularly at the North Dining Hall. Last week, five full-time employees, with combined service of over fifty years, were fired. There were no explanations given, only a faint rumor of an interpersonnd incident which occured six months ago and involved just two of the five fired workers. 
Last week when Director of Food Services, Mr. William Hickey, announced that three managers and two pantry workers were fired, it was stated that the University would tolerate neither racism nor unionism. 
At the North Dining Hall, the "upfront jobs like managing and serving food belong primarily to whites, while the "behind-the­sccnes" jobs like dean-up and pantry work 

The ObsetNer­
1'. (J /lux{!. .\"utre Ih/1111'. 1.\" ·I(, 55(1 (.!I 'J) .!39· 5303 
lbl' (JIJsen•,•r i_, the indqwndnll m·,,_,papn puhlhhnl h~· till' "tlllknh of the l"ni· \Tr~il\ ol Notre Damt· du l.ac ami Saint ,\1.tn ·,.College II doe~ not m-ce~~arih rdkct the policie" of the .tdmini~tration of either in~titulion. The nt·w,. i>. reported a" at:· n1ra1eh ami a~ ohjectin·Jy a" po;.;.ihk. l n~ignnl nlitoriab repre~nll the opinon of a I majority of the Editorial Board. CtHnmentarit·~. kttn'. and tht· ln~ide Column prt·sent tht· vkw~ of their author>.. Column ~pace i>. avail;~hk to all mnnht'f'-oftht· communit\·, l and the free t·xprt·~"i' 111 '1f varving opinion~ on t·ampu,.. through leiters. b etKouragnl.
l 
l 
t 
l t 
belong mostly to the non-white minorities, Orientals, Blacks and Hispanics. Food Services style of staff placement promotes racism, and the University will therefore continue to tolerate racism. 
As for unionism, perhaps the University will have to tolerate it; the present worker­employer relationship apparently provides little or no job security. 
This is our campus. Before we preach about how things should be elsewhere, perhaps we should make things that way here. 
Patricia Smith 
Campus liberals 
DearEditor: 
Despite how free-thinking and independent 
we college students claim to be, we are still 
very impressionable. I know several students 
here at Notre Dame who feel obligated to 
protest anything even slightly controversial. 
The day of the Captain Crunch eating con­test, I saw several students parading about with Captain Crunch-Wl.ry? posters on their backs. Fine. But when I see the same people distributing posters decrying U.S. involve­ment in Grenada a few days later, I begin to wonder. 
Are these true feelings, or merely the manifestation of some urge to continually question and complain without thinking of real solutions or causes? 
Many of our peers approach the nuclear arms issue in the same manner. How many stu­dents across the nation have hopped onto the nuclear freeze bandwagon without really un­derstanding what they are doing? These days it is the in thing to be nuclearly aware. 
Armed with facts, figures and destructive radii data, our nuclear freeze mongers unfor­
tunately disregard or do not care to discuss 
the r.:asons we have nuclear arms. They decry 
the effect, not the cause. How many know the 
hisrory of why wars start? How many care to 
research the roots of conflict, i.e. injustice, 
subjugation, elimination ofpersonal freedoms 
and the like. 
It is the t:al>'}' way out (and the intellectually 
lazy route) to look at all of our world 
problems and load them onto the nuclear 
scapegoat. Ideas like Nuclear Teach-Ins and 
Nuclear Arms Symposiums arc good, but we 
had better understand the roots of conflict 
before we try to treat their effects -i.e. 
nuclear weapons. 
Obviously nuclear weapons are a problem 
today. nut if we attempt to solve the problem 
without understanding the causes we will end 
up worse off. I am not saying that the nuclear 
freeze movement is wrong; rather, I challenge 
students to •hink the issue through from top 
to bottom before forming an opinion. Don't 
feel pressured to join the nuclear freeze 
movement just because it is in vogue. Under­
stand what you are arguing for. 
For a student to blindly follow what the 
freeze fathers dictate is a<> had as a soldier 
blindly obeying the orders of a military dic­
tator. 
Michael G. Raab 
Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the dai(y constraints of the page. They must bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author( ir~itials and pseudonyms are r~ot ac· ceptable). Leiters must be well-urrilfen anti ~ypetl. Material shorter than 250 words will 
receive priority. All letters are subject to editing anti become the property ofThe Ob­server. 
Editorial Board DepartmentManagers 
l:"llitt•r· iu-(.bi£1'. . ............. David Dziedzic .Htmaging l:"ditor .... ........\largaret Fosmot· Business .Hanager ...... . ..Christopher ( h\"t'n Ln•cutit•e Fdilor... ..... Paul :\ldiinn Controller .... ......................Akx Szilvas .\"eu•s Editor.. .... Bob Vomkrheide Adl'ertising Mauage,. . ........Jeanie l'oolc Xeu·s Fditor.. .............. :\lark \X"orscheh Circulation Manage,. .......... .\lart.: ,\liotto Saint .llary's Fditur ...Anne \lonastyrski .\ystems Manager .. ..... Kt·vin \X"illiant>. .\jmrts Lditor ... ....... Michael Sullivan Features Editor ...Sarah ll~rrliltim Photo /:'tlitor ..Scott Bower 
Founded November 3, 1966 

-
Friday, December 2 , 1983 -page 9

Showcase 


Letters to a Lonely God 
The hard-eyed look 
that people aren't seing me inward­ly. The secret world inside me is not

by Rev. Robert Griffin 
I 
always off-limits, and I need to be ap­preciated. I wish all ofus could trade was at a party, standing by the "Hi," each ofthe three students in our hard-eyed looks for the gift of table where the refreshments answered without enthusiasm. 
seeing inwardly. were laid out. Another guest, mixing Their eyes were as hard as ice, their On Sixth Avenue in the summer, I himselfa drink, made the observa­manner as cold as the November 
meet the winos with half-dead eyes. tion: "They're running out ofice." day. I was not somebody who in­Almost as a reflex action, they I responded: "I wept because I terested them. I went home feeling stretch out their hands for money. had no ice, until I met a man who very dull. You learn to ignore them, brushing 
•THEATREhad no gin." It was an instant At breakfast, there is a table for past as though they didn't exist. 

"The Investigation," a probing portrayal of the post-World War IIparaphrase, an attempt at a non-smokers, and another table with Eventually, you forget to notiice 

trials ofNazi concentration camp officials, opens this weekend. Thewisecrack, from the secret world ashtrays for those who smoke. This them except as hindrances to be cir­
play by Peter Weiss will by presented by the Notre Dame/Saintinside me where I'm kind, morning, a non-smoker sat at the cumnavigated on the sidewalk, the 
Mary's Theatre December 2,3,8,9 and 10 at 8 pm in the Center forhumorous, loving, and witty. The table with ashtrays. I hated to light walking dead. Their lifeless eyes see 

Continuing Education. Admission is $3, or 52.50 for senior citizensother guest moved away as though up while the other was eating, and your hard-eyed looks, and they leave 
and Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community members. Two can get inhe was embarrassed he heard me. waited until we were dawdling over you alone. For them you are the for the price ofone tonight, opening night. Call 284-4626 for moreAt dinner, where stories were the last cupofcoffee, before starting walking dead, the servant ofGod information.

being told, I offered a joke. A Russian to smoke. I felt guilty when he im­without love. They make remarks The Notre Dame Student Players, in association with Musicsoldier came home from three years mediately limned away the polluted about the Almighty's obituary Theatre InternationaL present the classic "Fiddler on the Roof," on guard duty in Siberia. His wife, air with his hand. 
notice. 
today and tomorrow at 8 pm in the Saint Mary's O'LaughlinNatash, offered him a three month "I'm sorry," I said. Cigarettes can Graffiti isthe artwork ofthe face­Auditorium. The players will perform the original New York stageold son to kiss. "Hah!" cried the sol­be a nusisance at a meal. 

less crowd. The kid from the ghetto 
production of this play about a jewish village in czarist Russia. Ad­dier in surprise, "Who has done this? He answered, pleasantly enough, 

leaves his mark on the indifferent 

mission is S4 at the door. For information call 239-52I 3.Was it my friend Nicalai?" for he is a friend ofmine, "You city with a paint can. jose will never 
The South Bend Civic Theatre presents "The House of Blue"Nyet," replied Natasha coldly. remind me of my mother. She does be on my Christmas card list, but 
Leaves," a "zany comedy," today and tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. in the

"Well, then, was it my friend the same kind ofthing to me." I felt it every time I ride the subway, I will 
Firehouse Theatre. For reservations call 234-5696.Ivan?" asked the soldier. was very tender ofhim to compare see thatjose thinks Ronald Reagan "Nyet," replied Natasha, very sure me with his mother; in an imperfect does obscene thingswith his mouth. ofherself. world, smokers don't always get 
Smoking is the thinking man's •DANCE "Was it my friend Pyotr?" the sol· treated so fairly. How many ofus, I 
graffiti. On evenings I dine alone in The Christmas White Party is tomorrow night, with a dance in dier insisted. wondered later, use our cigarettes 
NewYork, I leave a packfull ofbutts Chautauqua from 9 to I:30 to include a OJ and free records for the "Your friend! Your friend! Your to make statements that can't be 
in the ashtray as a protest against the first I00 people. Admission is SI. 

fr!end!" answered Natasha with ignored? 
loneliness. Every time I light up, I'm Michiana's Southold Dance Theatre opens its season with "The great indignation. "I've got friends Seeing inwardly would be the 

answering the hard-eyed looks with Nutcracker" at the Morris Civic Auditorium Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m. too." best gift I could get for Christmas. I 
a declaration ofidentity./smoke; and Sunday at 2 p.m. Guest soloists from the Cleveland Ballet will The joke needs Russian intona­often give others the hard-eyed look, 
therefore I am. It's a comfort to have perform in this story of a child's magical Christmas, described as 

tions, and Idon't do accents. No one when the sight seems preoccupied 
suchproo[ having "great music, dazzling magic, brilliant pageantry, and stun­was listeninganyway. I wondered ifI with long distance so that the stran­

Like Natasha, the Russian soldier's ning ballet." For information and tickets call 233-9841. had blown the punchline. All I ger won't make claims on us as a 
wife, I have friends too. All I need for needed to hear was a little laugh. neighbor. I don't always want to 
Christmas isto hear them laugh. All I •MUSIC At four o'clock on Friday, whan hear people when they're asking for 
need from strangers is smiles on The great tradition of Handel's "Messiah" will be carried on this the world is on its way to a happy a little time and kindness. I don't 
their faces. Christmas would be year by the Notre Dame Chorale, Orchestra and Department of hour, I passed three different stu­want to see them in their otherness, 
more believable ifwe decorated our Music. The grand oratorio will begin at 8 p.m. Sunday in Sacred Heart dents as I walked my dog. "Hi!" I which makes them so different from 
faces instead ofour artificial trees Church, conducted by Arl Starn. Admission is free. cried in a voice full ofsincerity. me. I get very lonely when I realiize with the plastic angels. 
Record review •ART 
Exhibitions of lithography by Currier and lves, Rembrandt's etched work, painting and graphics by Douglas Kinsey, and fun­damental concepts in art are now on display in the Snite. "Guiseppe

Billy Joel: surprise again 
Gattuso: Made in Italy" is on display in the Hammes Gallery and an exhibition by four former Saint Mary's photographers is showing in the Moreau Gallery at the College.

with a 50's toe-tapping sound 
•MASS The Masses this Sunday in Sacred Heart Church will have the 
"Uptown Girl" and the honky-tonk 
following celebrants:

by Vic Sciulli 
"Christie Lee" and you'll agree that 
Fr. Robert Griffin, at 5:I5 p.m. (Saturday night vigil)

features staffwriter whatjoel has done is taken the 50s 
Fr. Nicholas A yo, at 9 a.m. 
style ofrock and fused it with his 
Fr. Steven Gibson, at I0:30 own brand rather than just reusing 
Fr. Steven Gibson, at I2:I 5 

0 
ne never really knows what to was hardly known outside ofhis 
the old sounds, as the StrayCats have 

expect from BillyJoel. The man native New York, it would have been 
done. (We all had a little taste ofthis 
•MOVIEShas become known for keeping his easier to believe him when he sings: 

several years ago with his "It's Still

audiences on their musical toes by I want the easy/Easy money/! "And justice for All," sponsored by the Notre Dame Women's 
Rock-n-Roll To Me".)

varying his sound from album to al­couldget lucky/ Things couldgo Caucus, will show in the Engineering Auditorium tonight at 7, 9: I 5 
Gentle string arrangements and

bum. After the great successes ofTbe right and I i :30. Admission is $1. 
keyboards frameJoel's introspective

Stranger, 52nd Street and Glass Tonight's Friday Night Film is "Chan is Missing," a I981 movie 
lyricson the LP's title track.joelis at

Houses,Joel could have very easily Same thing goes for "Uptown depicting a search by a Chinese-American taxi driver and his restless 
home beyond his piano, through

continued in the pop/ballad mood Girl" a story about the poor nephew through San Francisco's Chinatown. The picture is ordinary,
which he best communicates.

with which he has become so ac­downtown boy chasing after the yet filled with the humor and ironies ofcultural assimilation. Admis­
I'm not above doing anything

complished. Instead, he took a high-class uptown girl Ofcourse sion is $2 for the 7:30p.m. showing in the Annenburg.
To restore yourfaith ifI can

chance with last year's The Nylon this is not the BillyJoel of today but On Saturday at 7 and 9:I5 p.m., "Kramer vs. Kramer," the poignant
Somepeopleseethrough theeyesof

Curtain, an LP directed more the song, one ofthis year's most in­story of a divorce and the relationaship that develops between a 
the old

toward Joel's older audience. fectious pop hits, comes across single father and his son, will be shown in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's, 
Before they everget a look at the 
for Sl.

The 50s do-wop sound of"An ln­sounding believable from Joel and 
young

noccent Man" should then come as not a rehashed version ofolder "The Great Justice," a Chinese Association film, will show Satur­
I'm only willing to bearyou cry

no surprise to fans who have songs with the same theme. day at 7:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Because I am an innocent man 

"Equinox Flower," a 1958Japanese film in which a father seeks to however,joel is true to his goal and are heavily rooted in the 50s dance "Keeping the Faith" is another arrange his resisting daughter's marriage, begins Monday at 7 in the succeeds in presenting a sound that and do-wop sound, butJoel is care­revelation ofjoel's past, in the same Annenburg. is energetic and refreshing. ful to avoid plagiarizing and making vein as his "HalfA Mile Away" from At 9 p.m. on Monday,"Pennies from Heaven," a I98I film, The change in sound and style a mockery ofthe classic oldies. Lis­52ndStreet. joel's recollections are combines drama, comedy and original recordings from the 30's to a little more mature this time than construct a "world where the songs come true," fantasized by an 
followed his career. Just as always, Many ofthe songs on the LP sound 
doesn't become apparent until the ten to "The Longest Time," "This third song. The sassy sound of"Easy Night," "Tell Her About It," the ones he recalls ofhis days with 
unsuccessful sheet music salesman. The drama looks back at the Money", the title song to Rodney 
his friend little Gino: 
roots ofmusical extravaganza in a lingering Depression. Admission is Dangerfield's movie ofthe same 
also $2 for this Annenburg movie. 
I puton my shark skinjacket

name opens the LP. Joel uses brass 
You know, the kind with the velvet 
•NAZZmore extensively than he has in the 

collar 
A student band called Rhythm and Methods will play in the Nazzpast and the trumpet and 

And ditty-bop shades 
tonight, beginning at 9.

saxophones here power the song. 
Obyeab

joel has always been at his 
I took a fresh pack ofLuckies 
•MISCEllANEOUSsongwriting best when he is intro­

Anda mintcalledSen-Sen 
Today, until 5 p.m., the annual Christmas pottery and card sale will

spective. His cooL unpretentious 
My old man's Trojans 
be held in the great hall ofO'Shaughnessy. The sale is co-sponsoredvoice makes him all the more 

And his Old Spice after shave 
by the Snite Museum, the Ceramics Department, and the department ofArt, Art History and Design. 

believable. Keeping this in mind, 
one should listen to "Easy Money" A philosophy lecture titled "Mathematics with the Early Wit­
with the thought that it was written Record provided by Music/and tgenstein" will be presented by Dr. Phyllis Rooney ofthe University
for the movie and is not a personal oflowa, today at 3:30 in the Library Lounge.
statement. Ten years ago, whenjoel in University Park Mall. 
Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball is looking for a commis­sioner for this spring's tournament. If you are a sophomore and in­terested in running the prestigious tournament, pick up an application at the Student Government office on the second floor of Lafortune. Applications for all other An Tostal commissioners are also available. All applications should be picked up by today. -The Observer 
Sign-ups for the Insilco Squashtournament 
continue this week in the ACC. The Dec. 2-4 tournament features 'B', 
'C', and 'D' divisions. It is open to students and faculty. Winners of 
this tournament advance to the regionals held in Chicago in january. 
For more information. call Sean Richardson at 277-1405.-The Ob­
server 

AI Maguire' Digger Phelps, and Tom Sluby will 
be among the celebrities present at the UCLA Pep Rally. The rally 
takes place tomorrow, December 2, at 7:30p.m. in the ACC Pit. And 
best ofall. it's free. -The Observer 

Liberty Bowl tickets for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are available at the second floor ticket windows of the ACC according to the following schedule: Freshmen -today. The ticket windows will be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (including the noon hour). The cost of a ticket for the December 29 game in Memphis, Tenn., is S18. A student may present a maximum oftwo identification cards and applications for tickets. Married students may purchase a ticket for their spouse at the time ofissue by present­ing proofofmarriage. Upperclassmen may pick up their tickets on or after their designated day, but the last day of issue is tomorrow, December 2. -The Observer • 
The Notre DameWeightlifting Clubwm hold a bench press competition in the Rockne weight room on Sun­day, December 3 at 1 p.m. All those interested in flexing their muscles should sign up in the Rockne weight room or call 8762. All students, male or female, are eligible. This includes varsity athletes. The entrance fee is $2 for those who are not members of tlte weightlifting club. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Ski Teamwillholdameetingfrom4 to 7 p.m. at 205 Alumni today. Also, there are still a few spots open for the trip to Jackson Hole. For more information, come to the meeting. -The Observer 
.. ·' 

The Notre Dame SailingTeamis looking for 
sailors with big boat racing experience to sail in the Kennedy Cup next spring. If interested, contact Chris Hussey at 283-1150. 
Friday, December 2 , 1983 -page 10 
College basketball 
St. Peter's upsets Michigan State 
River from New York City in Jersey

._----------------------.JCity. 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -St. Peter's basketball Coach Bob Dukiet says the last two minutes of the un­ranked and unheralded Peacocks' 
stunning  73-66  victory  last  night  
over  I 1 th-ranked  Michigan  State  
"was like an eternity."  

In the second game of the doubleheader at Brendan Byrne Arena, Tony Campbell scored 23 points and had nine rebounds to lead Ohio State, 2-0, to a 72-68 upset of No. 6 Maryland, 1-1. 
Center Tommy Best scored 22 points and forward Shelton Gibbs fired in 20, including two crucial free throws with 35 seconds to play, as St. Peter's held on after seeing an 18-point first-half lead dwindle to three points. 
"It's a scary feeling," Dukiet said. "You hate to see a game go out from under you when you've been in con­trol so long." 
Michigan State, 2-1, stormed back from a 26-8 first-half deficit to pull to within 64-61 on Sam Vincent's two free throws with 36 seconds to play. 
But Gibbs coolly sank two free throws after a two-shot technical foul was called on Michigan State's Darryl Johnson for deliberately grabbing St. Peter's Bernard Hargrove on the inbounds play after Vincent's two foul shots. 
The dead-ball technical foul was called because Referee Tim Higgins said Johnson was trying to foul Hargrove before St. Peter's Phil jamison was given possession ofthe ball to make an inbounds pass. 
"It's the worst rule I've ever been associated with in basketball," said Michigan State Coach Jud Heathcote. johnson would have been allowed to intentionally foul Hargrove ifSt. Peters had possession ofthe ball. Hargrove was fouled four 
times in a 1 :30 span leading up to the technical foul. 
After Gibbs' two free throws, Nor­man Luckett converted a layup to give St. Peter's a 68-61 lead with 30 seconds to play. 
"I think we lost the game in the first I 0 minutes. Their overplaying, aggressive defense really bothered us. I take nothing away from them. I give them credit," Heathcote said. 
"It was a wild and crazy game," said Dukiet, fifth-year coach at the tinyJesuit school across the Hudson 
"We knew they weren't going to quit and give up a victory," Best said. "In the final minutes it was flowing in my mind the possibility that this one would get away. But I had con­fidence in our guys." 
St. Peter's, 2-0, saw its 18-point lead whittled to 28-21 at halftime, but built it to 17 twice in the second half before Vincent triggered the comeback. 
Vincent, whose older brother,Jay, plays for the Dallas Mavericks of the National Basketball Association, keyed the comeback with 25 of his game-high 30 points in the second half. Vincent had 13 points in the final two minutes ofplay. 
St. Peter's took an early 9-0 lead and steadily built it to 26-8 behind 
• 
continued/rom page 16 
36 slaughter of Hawaii Pacific, by 
putting in 15. 
The other person that will be looked to for scoring is 6-1 junior forward Char jones. jones was one of two players to average in double figures last year ( 14.2 ppg) and also was second on the team in rebound­ing (7.9 rpg).Jones, who also scored 15 against Hawaii Pacific, will have to pick up a lot of the slack after the departure ofThompson andJoyner. 
She will get some rebounding help from three newcomers on the front line. Van Helvoort, Keur, and 6-0 freshman forward Mary Madigan, who pulled down nine rebounds against Hawaii, will provide some strength as will two other freshmen, Shari Biggs and Tia Francis. 
In all, UCLA features a lineup that includes seven players that are 6-0 or taller as well as some talented outside shooters. 
"They're a more disciplined team than they were last year," explains D t iStanislao. "They are very well­rounded. They have a more potent inside game and have some very good shooters in Char Jones and Anne Dean." 
DiStanislao is confident that her team has improved to the point where it will no longer be vul­nerable to fast teams like UCLA. Last year the Bruins ran right past the Irish, resulting in games with scores the 6-foot-6 Best's I 1 points. Best, who played the game with a swollen left eye he sustained in a season­opening victory over Muhlenberg, converted 12 of I 8 free throws. 
Michigan State, which went al­most six minutes without scoring and struggled to connect for nearly 1 5 minutes, got back into the game with an 11-0 burst. 
The Spartans, who played without injured 7-foot center Kevin Willis and used three guards for most of the first half after 6-foot-9 starter Richard Mudd picked up his third personal foul in the game's first five minutes, began their rally after Gibbs went to the bench with his third personal foul. 
• • Women 
of82-54 and 84-53. This year should 
be a different story. 
"Last year, we played them in our first game of the year, and we were not prepared, and they were in great shape," says DiStanislao. "In the second game, they caught us at a down time." 
"The main reason we had trouble 
with them, though, was that they 
played to our weakness -our 
transition game. We were not able to 
hit the boards very well, and we 
were handily outrebounded. I 
would hope that we have solved that 
this year." 
The Irish will need a strong per­formance from the people inside. In both games in the Notre Dame Clas­sic, Notre Dame was hurt by the inside play on both ends of the court. Especially important is get­ting a strong game from center Mary Beth Schueth. Schueth, who has been the team's leading scorer and rebounder the last two years, was held to just one point and one rebound against Maryland, her poorest performance ofher career. 
Also important will be the play of freshman point guard Vonnie Thompson who has been a bright spot so far this year. It will be her job to run an offense that has relied mostly on outside shooting this season. Unless there is some more scoring from the center and for­wards tomorrow, things may not turn out too well for the Irish. 
The Obseroer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor ofHaggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 
p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Frida.y. Deadline for next day clas­sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. 

Classifieds Charge is I 0 cents per seven characters per day. 
NOTICES 

PRO-TYPE. t2 yrs. experoence. Specializing In dissertations, manuscnpts, theses. and student papers. Call 2n-5833 lor rates. 
HALF PRICE I .50 off! $2.50 offl 5e. off! <:oupons In lhe yellow pages of your Campus Telephone Directory! 
WSND AM needs good salespeople! Come to meellng Monday Dec. 5 at 7:00 pm in WSND studio or call Kevin at 2n­6250 
ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST: HP UIC CALCUlATOR 

I lost my Hewlett-Packard calculator In !he Eng~.._nng Computer Room on Wed­nesday. Nov. 9. nhas big initials of DS in the right corner. Kfound. call David at z.n­1326. Reward olfared. No questiOns. 
................................................................ 
LOST: NAVY BlUE LIGHTWEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET. TO THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE HAD FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN 
AT8810. 
LOST: 1 blue ND boo!< bag Ill St. Mary's­Saga. K found. call Mart< 1186 
LOST-DID ANYONE PICK UP A PURPLE DOWN COAT AT CORBY'S THURSDAY, NOV. 17TH? IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING. PLEASE CALL CYNTHIAATB017. 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF GLASSES IN A TAN CASE EARLY MONDAY AFTER­NOON LOST IN BUSINESS BUILDING. N.DINIING HALL OR SOMEWHERE IN BETWEEN. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL STEPH. X6841. 
FOUND -one pair of women's eyeglasses between Cavanaugh and Nieuwland on 11/28. Call! 802 or stop by tt11 Grace 
Lost: Quartz watch. Says KC AWARD WINNER 1983. Klound. call Danat6748. Have only !hanks to olfar. 
LOST: LARGE GREEN & BLUE­STRIPED GANT RUGBY SHIRT OUTSIDE BADIN LAUNDRY 11118 OR 11/t 1111. PLEASE 111AKE YOURSELF FEEL GOOD BY RETURNING TO LOST I FOUND .. Ao.l BUILDING OR 
CALLCHRIS-277-41111. 
LOST: 1 brown leather shoulder bag in front of Holy Cross SMC. on Sunday Nov. 
27. my checkbool< is in rt. Kfound please call Teresa at 2&4-4353 
LOST: A gold elgrMII ring -U. ..,.. tt.la BSA. a.-Dillon omd Alumni on Friday Nov. 11. I found call a.th 
2114-4030 
GLASSES LOST: On Monday. Novem­ber 29, I lost a pair of prescription glasses either in the business building, North Dining Hall, or on the path in between. They are women's glasses wrth black tinted frames and gold sidepieces. If you've found them. please contact Leanne Michelle at N0.7009, or come by 304 Lewis Hall. Thank you so much !Ill 
LOST 11/30/83 BROWN LEATHER BIFOLD. DURING THE MORNING HOURS AT THE ROCKNE. PlEASE KEEP THE MONEY BUT RETURN THE WALLET. CALL 1641 EDDY LLANO 321 GRACE. 
WANTED 
AIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK. SYRACUSE OR THE VICINITY AFTER FINALS CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME. 
Need person to share house of male grad student Cost $125 & 112 utilities. Call Chip after 5, 287-6226 
Help! I need a ride to Dayton this weel<end. Leave 1112 ,return 1114. Dave 3810 
Riders needed to ATLANTA or anywhere along 1-75 or 1-16 & 1-95 In Georgia. Leaving after finals. Call Alan att-402. 
FOR SALE 
LIBERTY BOWL T-SHIRTS FOR SALE GREAT SOUVENIR AND CHRISTMAS PRESENT CALL DON 1463 
2 UCLA GA's lor sale-Call Joel1570 
TICKETS 
DESPAAATELY NEED TWO LIBERTY BOWL TIKS CALL 272-3491 
NEED: DePaul tix will trade UCLA or pay $$call Vince N0.3129 
EMEAGENCYII4 GA's needed for UCLA. Ph. 8398$$$ 
NEED 4 UCLA TICKETSIII Call Sheila 
3484 
would like UCLA tix call283-8046 
I need 6 GA's (together) to the DePaul game. Pay $$$1 Call Beth 2114-4030 
PERSONALS 
Dear Babe Happy Birthday I Love You Lil Bro' 
LOST: HP15CCALCULATOR 
LD.st in engineering computer room. Call David at 2n-1326. No questions asked. Reward offered. 
Gerry's kids all love theY-CAFE, You can too. Visrt the Y-CAFE: 2-A PW DON'T DELAY-Do nODAY. 
MARTY, YOU'RE SUCH A WEINEAIII I 
MEAN WIENER... NO. I MEAN 
WEINER... YOU DON'T DESERVE THE CORRECT SPELLING 
ON SUNDAY DEC. 4 ALL MEN FROM NOTRE DAME ARE INVITED TO STOP BY LEMANS HALL (SMC) AND GIVE KELLY ANNE O'SHEA A HAPPY 22 nd BIRTHDAY KISS 
A DAY CAMPUS? BUZZ CLUB BUZZ CLUB BUZZ CLU81418 ANDERSON 
GET OUT OF THE PIZZA AUTII BUY A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE. WE STILL DELIVER 9-12pm CALL 272-4453. 
ANARCHY? NOI IT'S THE RHYTHM METHODS! SAT DEC 3 9PM. THE 
NAZZI 
Dear Ksttry, Csttry, Bog, Patty, Pattie, Helen, Helen, Usa. /J3a, Darlene, Angie, Peggy, Joan, (Hey,Hey) Paula, Mertha, Jean, Lynn, KBIJe, Eileen, Miriam, Laura, Anne, MllfY, And/, /JIId,STEYE.,/Thanlca lor • lllun ...,.., I'a too--!oat, but you couldn't ....,. dorw II wl­ua. IAI'a gat togather lor • gun 
..........,.ty. co.ch chrla and mike. 
To E. Conway, "Sometimes Wetust don't see the same way There is no love that is perfect every day It doesn't matter who Is wrong or who is right 
Yes folks, another B.P. woman (from awesome 3-south) has come of age. BIG MARTHA KUTASHY turns 21 tomorrow. She will be accepting shots all day. Have a good one! --Gumby-­
Give !hat someone special a Xmas gift they'll never forget Order a "Holiday Tuck In" available thru Regina Hall at SMC. Christmas Bazzar. 
SLIME OF THE UNIVERSE, UNITE! TO THE GREAT N0.22, HAVE A WONDER­FUL BIRTHDAY AND A WONDERFUL LIFE. LOVE, SCUM AND QUASI MODO. 
Ron Oberlertner is a man-god! 
TODD-Saturday's the BIG DAY. Get your back off the wall and try pos. N0.4. l:lAP­py BIRTHDAY, T. T. & G. 
For the windows of the world Are nell8r open all the way, And the 110/ces of the past Are not forgonen THI you /eal/8 Hall behind you. 
UCLA vs. Notre Dame Friday, December 2, 1983-page 11 

continued from page 16 
Don't let the modesty of this electric backcourt player fool you. He has a wide range oftalents. 
"Scott Hicks is a guard that's got good potential," says Phelps. "I think that he handles the ball very well in transition and he's a better shooter than people think. Plus he's very creative with the ball. 
"He is not john Paxson, but he's the guard we wanted 
, to come in here. I don't think it's fair to compare Scott Hicks with John Paxson because of what John Paxson was as a senior. Hicks is only a freshman -but he's going to be a very good guard." Hicks is now making the adjustment to guard after having played small forward at Cathedral, where he averaged 20.4 points, 10 rebounds, and 3.4 steals per game as a senior. Hicks became Cathedral's all-time leading scorer by shooting 50 percent from the field and 69 percent from the free-throw line during his senior campaign. Named to the prep all-America teams ofParade, Bas­ketball Weekly, Scholastic Coacb/Adidas, and the Na­tional High School Athletic Coaches Association/Converse during his senior year, Hicks led C<Jthedral to a 20-3 record. ! '• -ks was one of the nation's early signees in the ini­tial year ofthat option for high school seniors. His deci­sion to attend Notre Dame was based to a some degree on its proximity to his Indianapolis home. "I just wanted to stay close to home," says Hicks. "I was also turned on by the academics and the tradition." Hicks may also have been influenced in his decision by the Irish sophomore Barlow. "We've been good friends for about six years," says Barlow. "I just told him (Hicks) that Notre Dame was a nice place, that I enjoyed it here, and that I thought he could handle the academics." ­At the moment, Hicks is playing the role of the off­guard in the Phelps' offense. "He's a second guard," says Phelps. "I don't think that he's a point guard." "So far, Digger has made my role out to be one ofall shooting," adds Hicks. 
-· 

Another freshman who will counted on to do his share ofshooting in the future is 6-7, 205-pound Donald Royal. The product ofSt. Augustine High School in New Orleans, Louis., has front-line quickness that every team is looking for. 
"Donald is a quick front-line player that gives us somebody who is going to be a good defensive player," assesses Phelps. "And he is somebody who's very quick going to the hole offensively. He's going to be a good rebounder and he's going to be a good shooter in time," continues Phelps. "He's not a good shooter right now but we're working on that." 

Tom Sluby 
Irish captain 
• • • Freshmen 
Royal was not that much of a scorer in high school, averaging 12.7 points. But maybe it was his 14.2 rebounds or 4.3 assists per game that were more impor­tant as he led St. Augustine to a 35-0 record and the Louisiana state championship in his senior season. 
Phelps sees more in Royal than pure statistics, though. "I just like the way he plays the game," says the Irish coach. "He's an athlete. He knows how to play bas­ketball." 
Royal also knows that there is much for him to work 
on in the years ahead at Notre Dame. 
"I've got to learn to face the basket. I'm used to playing with my my back to it. But everything will take care of itself. I just want to come in this year and con­tribute, to give the team whatever it takes to win." 
There should be no shortage of playing time for Royal, or any of the other freshmen, to work on their game. 
"We're a young team," comments Phelps. "They need to get playing time." 
Joking on the relative youth of his team, Phelps quipped, "You know, Royal won't be 18 until May so he doesn't even wear a jock. He's still in diapers." 
Royal, in fact, mentions that the chance for playing 
time was a part in his decision to attend Notre Dame. 
"It came down to Notre Dame and UCLA. I chose 
Notre Dame because the academics were stressed more 
and there would be more playing opportunity." 
• 
Like Scott Hicks, fellow freshman John Bowen also 
announced his decision to play basketball for Notre 
Dame early. For Bowen, the decision had been made a 
long time ago. "Basically, I always wanted to come here 
since I was a little boy. The mystique, tradition, the per­
centage ofballplayers who go on, all turned me on. I just 
had a real good feeling." 
Bowen is much like Irish sophomore Tim Kempton 
in his style of play. He hits the boards hard and is not 
afraid to shoot. In fact, Bowen is unofficially the top 
rebounder in Pennsylvania high school history, with 
2,163 for a 19.1 average. 
His 21.1 points and 19.2 rebounds per game as a senior aided Warren Area High School in Warren, Penn., to a 29-3 record and gave Bowen a spot on the all­America team ofBasketball Weekly and all-state honors for the second straight year. 
As with most freshman players, Bowen has a number 
ofthings he must work on. For one, he has played zone 
defense throughout his entire career and now must ad­
just to the man-to-man that the Irish play. 
"I just want to get the system and get used to a new 
coach this year," says Bowen. "I'll just help out in any 
situation the team may need me -make a rebound, 
make a shot, just whatever." 
Bowen is a better outside shooter than many people 
think. His left-handed shot is unique to this year's Irish 
squad. 
"I think that he's a good outside shooter," says Phelps, "and he's going to learn the finesse as time goes on. He's going to bang some people around and still score points for us." 
The high point of Bowen's career thus far appears to be his 14 points in Notre Dame's 104-56 win over St. Joseph's (Ind.). Other than that game, Bowen's playing time this season has been somewhat limited. 

Tim Kempton 
Irish forward/center 
Limited playing time during one's freshman year is nothing to be alarmed about, however, at least according to Phelps. "I told them in recruiting not to put everything in their first year. It's going to be a four year process for you. But each year you're going to see us get better." 
"I think that they're three talented people," Phelps continues. "I wouldn't have them here ifl didn't think they had potential. "Right now there's no Paxsons, there's no Tripuckas, there's no Woolridges. All you're looking at is a bunch ofguys who want to win." 
Four or five years down the road, Phelps may well be mentioning the fact that there are no Hickses, Royals, or Bo:wens on his team that year. Whether these three are deserving ofsuch merit at that time is something that everyone will have to'wait to find out. After all, Pax­son, Tripucka, and Woolridge all were unknown and untested fresh­men at one time in their career. 
Everything these three freshmen ofthe class of'87 have done in 
the past will do little in making a name for them. Now is the time to 
do that. The ball is in their court. 
The Lineups 
Notre Dame 
F 33 Tom Sluby 6-4 220 Senior F 42 Jim Dolan 6-8 220 Sophomore C 41 Tim Kempton 6-9 245 Sophomore G 11 Joe Buchanan 6-2 185 Sophomore G 40 Joseph Price 6-5 200 Sophomore 
UCLA 
F 54 Kenny Fields 6-7 229 Senior F 25 Nigel Miguel 6-5 174 Junior C 55 Stuart Gray 7-0 248 Junior G 12 Montel Hatcher 6-1 165 Sophomore G 3 Ralph Jackson 6-2 195 Senior 
,·,·,,,..;. •• ~u .. 
\~ .,au AnnA '-'\ , 
• • • UCLA 
continued from page 16 
''I'm still not sure we have the over­
all quickness to go up and down the 
floor with them," states Phelps, "but 
at least we can match up with them 
in that area a little better than we 
have in the past." 
That quickness will be sorely needed when trying to match up with UCLA's lightning-quick guards, Ralph Jackson and Mantel Hatcher. Jackson, the Bruin captain, had two big games against the Irish a year ago, winning the first game on a layup with three seconds left and scoring a total of 24 points in the home-and-home series last season. His running mate in the backcourt 
is heralded freshman Hatcher. 
Hatcher, who according to Farmer 
"promises to be one of the more 
exciting players we've had at UCLA 
in a long time," has shown outstand­
ing range from the outside, averag­
ing 9.5 points per game. "Hatcher 
definitely makes it easier for them to 
survive losing (Rod) Foster and 
(Michael) Holton," notes Phelps. 
The Irish will be trying to catch up 
some lost ground in this eventful 
series, as they trail UCLA 20-11 over­
all. But no matter what happens in 
tomorrow's nationally-televised en­
counter, fans can expect more than 
"just another game." 


The Observer Friday, December 2 , 1983 -page 12 
Undefeated record on line 
Hockey team goes to St. Norbert's NFL 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team is on the road again this weekend. Af­ter a successful non-conference sweep last weekend at the Univer­sity ofMichigan-Dearborn, the team resumes Central States Collegiate Hockey League action as it faces St. Norbert's. 
Located in De Pere, Wisconsin, a small community just south of Green Bay, St. Norbert's is expected to be one of the more challenging opponents on the league slate. 
St. Norbert's coach Hank Therrien is a former professional hockey player. He never made it to the Na­tional Hockey League, but he did play with the Ft. Wayne Komets of 
the  International  Hockey  League  
and  the  Hershey  Bears  of  the  
American Hockey League.  

"Because of their coach's ex­perience, we are expecting them to be well-prepared," says Irish coach Lefty Smith. "We don't think it will be our top competition, but it should be interesting." 
As happens when dealing with most club programs, it is difficult to obtain accurate reports about an op-
NHL Standings 
PRINCE Of WALES CONFERENCE 
Ademe Dlvlllon 
w l T Gf GA Pia. 
Boston t5 6 2 tt4 7t 32 Buffalo t4 8 3 97 87 3t Quebec t4 tt 3 t35 t02 3t Montreal tt t3 t tOO t02 23 Hartlord 9 tt 2 78 88 20 
Plltrlck Dlvlllon NY Islanders t6 9 t tt4 94 33 
NY Rangers t4 9 4 t08 96 32 
Pholadelphoa t4 8 3 t06 88 3t 
Washington t2 t3 t 90 95 25 Pt"sburgh 6 t7 3 8t t08 t5 New Jersey 3 2t 0 64 t22 6 
CLARENCE CAMPBEll CONFERENCE Smythe Dvlelon w l T Gf GA Pia Edmonton t9 4 3 t57 t05 4t Calgary tt tO 4 95 t01 
26 Vancouver 1t t3 2 t09 112 24 los Angeles 7 t4 5 106 t22 
t9 Wtnnopeg 8 t4 3 t03 t25 t9 
Norrie Dlvlalon M1nnesota t3 9 3 1t9 tt8 29 Chtcago tt t3 2 95 t06 24 Toronto 11 12 2 107 119 24 Detroit 10 11 
2 87 91 22 St. Louts 9 12 3 91 104 21 
Yellterdey"e Reaulte Boston 7, Vancouver 1 Quebec 6. Montreal 3 .1 Washington 8. New Jersey 4 Minnesota 6. Pottsburgh 4 Calgary 6. N Y Islanders 2 W1nnopeg 6. Los Angeles 5. OT 

ponent's strengths and weaknesses. The best analysis usually comes when the games are actually played. 
St. Norbert's currently sports a 2­5-1 record, while Notre Dame main­tains an impressive 9-0-0 overall mark. 
With things going as well as they have so far this season, team attitude is one factor that must be watched closely. Smith feels, however, that his players are thinking along the right lines. 
"Their attitude is really excel­lent," says the Irish mentor. "Had we not faced St. Thomas and Michigan­Dearborn, though, we might have had a little problem. But winning all four against the good competition brings in the prospect of going un­defeated." 
And Notre Dame's junior co­captain Brent Chapman believes that his teammates are maintaining the proper mental motivation to continue their success. "We want to keep undefeated," he says. "We've been told that we've faced our stif­fest competition. St. Norbert's probably isn't as good as St. Thomas or Dearborn, but if you want to stay undefeated, you've always got to be prepared." 
"If we keep thinking and playing like we are now, we'll do really well," adds junior forward Steve Ely. "Avoiding injuries, however, will be an important factor as well." 
Injuries will not be a problem for the Irish this weekend, though. Everyone should be ready to play. Sophomore defenseman Bob Thebeau had the flu and missed several workouts earlier in the week. But he is expected to be back at playing strength for this weekend's series. 
In the scoring department, Chap­man contint,~es to reign as the team's top scorer. His hat trick last weekend at Dearborn was his second ofthe season. He now has 28 points on 12 goals and 16 assists. 
After his two goals and three as­sists last weekend, junior Tim Reilly moved into a tie with three other players for second on the scoring chart. He now has four goals and 12 assists. The other players currently tied with 16 points are Thebeau and seniors Mike Metzler and Adam Par­sons. 
Freshman Tim Lukenda, the team's number one goaltender who was in the nets at Dearborn a week ago, will get this weekend off. He now has a 6-0-0 record. 
The netminding chores on Friday will rest with sophomore Marc Guay. On Saturday, Smith plans to go with junior AI Haverkamp. 
IRISH ITEMS-The current Notre Dame winning streak is now the longest string ofconsecutive vic­tories in the modern era at Notre Dame. Last weekend's sweep enabled the team to surpass the pre­vious record of seven set from February 1 7 to March 8, 1973. The Irish need just five more victories to break the record for consecutive games without a loss . . . . Smith's career coaching record now stands at 261-258-27. 
Cosimo Hair Design 
18461 St. Rd. 23 2n-1s1s 
Men: Regularly $14.95, Special Price $10* Women: Regularly $20, Special Price $15* 
•with coupon for Notre Dame atudenta only 
Co-Designen Only: Men $7 Women $10 

----------~--------------------------­
~INVESTIGATION 
December 2, 3, 8, 9, 10-8:00 p.m. Center for Continuing Education ~ltWiTt o!=l="iC.iALS ON lJAAL eEfOU: ltif!" C6~r AT ftA~j(.flJI(.T L'\11-+·1111~ 11ck~"P) ~ INf"O l&-4-~liZ.(, 
'h.ristm.as Sale ~~ 
~h.Fine Arts Posters-$3 ~ 
.,.,""" North & South Dining HallsV, Dec. 5-Dec. 9 -Dinner 
rSPONSORED BY THE STUDENT LIAISON COMMITTEE OF THE SNITE 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS: 
weekly Sunday masses will be held in the ~enter for Social Concerns at 7 PM starting this Sunday, December 4. 
On Campus Students Welcome Tool 
\ 
~(~ 
Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
Ealt 
Ea81 
w L TPct. Pf PA 
w l T Pet. Pf PA x-Dallas 11 2 0 846 4t7 277 
Miami 9 4 0 .692 300 195 x-Washington 11 2 0 .846 442 279 
Buffalo 7 6 0 .538 245 288 St. Louis 5 7 t .423 299 39t Baltimore 6 7 0 .462 240 258 Philadelphta 5 8 0 .385 291 295 
New England 6 7 0 .462 240 258 
N.Y. Giants 3 9 1 .269 227 289 N.Y. Jets 6 7 0 .462 282 257 
Central Detrort 7 6 0 .538 302 247 Central Minnesota 7 6 0 .538 28t 302 9 4 0 .692 294 243
Pi"sburgh Chicago 6 7 0 .462 241 236 Cleveland 8 5 0 .6t5 293 264 Green Bay 6 7 0 462 365 379 Cincinnati 5 8 0 .385 292 263 Houston
Tampa Bay 2 tt 0 .154 191 310 t 12 0 .077 227 389 
Welt 
Welt y-LA Aalders 
L.A. Rams 8 5 0 .6t5 3t9 286 Denver New Orleans 7 6 0 .538 275 287 Sea"le San Francisco 7 6 0 .538 332 245 KansasCrty Atlanta 6 7 0 .462 294 307 San Diego 
Yeaterday'eRe..,lta 
L.A. Raiders 42. San Diego 10 
tt 3 0 .786 388 290 7 6 0 .538 237 254 7 6 0 .538 352 344 5 8 0 .385 291 295 5 9 0 .357 303 394 
~...,......___(; r Jli( 


lfll!III()A\~ lfiiiL~\ ~1~1~111~~ 
DBCflm.?t•r 2
e. 
Chan Is Missing (19Btl USA Directed by Wayne Wong BiW, 8C m1n ._,. A seFtrch by a Chine3e-American lax1 driver and his restless nephew ~ takes us on a tour ot San Franc1sco·s Chinatown. the likes of which comrnuniCAIIOn we've never seen before: it is resolutely ordinary, yet filled w1th the ~~ humor and ironies of cultural assimilation (i e , a Chinese short-order •tnlvt'R511Y0fno!Rf DAm£ ·cor•k who wears a ..Samurai Fever.. T·shtrt and sings ..Fry Me lo the Mo·>r•..) 
.Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseurn AoMrssroNs2.oo 
7 30
~-----lr ~u ~ 11~13 Jti lr PM
= 
urant 
Best inAged Stea 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sun & Holiday!> 
Tired of those dull evenings at home??? 
Join 
Ihe ObserYer 
Production Department next semester and put some excitement into your nightlife. 

Stop by the LaFortune office for an application . 
~========~-----------~ 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------~­
The Observer Friday, December 2, 1983-page 13 Su~stitutes doing well 
Wrestlers winning despite injuries 
ByJOE BRUNETI'I 
Sports Writer 
Inexperience creates doubt in people, and many times inex­perience dispels these doubts. Such was the case in the Notre Dame 
wrestling team's first two triangular meets ofthe 1983-84 season. 
Because ofinjuries and the flu, the Irish used a substitute lineup consisting of many inexperienced wrestlers to win their first two tri­
meets. 
On Wednesday, November 23, 
while most students were either at 
home or going home for break, the 
wrestling team competed in a meet 
in Michigan against Olivet and Siena 
Heights. The Irish prevailed beating, 
Siena Heights, 27-17, and squeeking 
by Olivet, 21-18. 
Against Siena Heights, Notre Dame relied on its lightweight wrestlers to provide an early lead. Siena Heights' strength showed in the heavier classes, but the strength of Notre Dame's heavyweights was enough to hold off Siena Heights. 
The competition against Olivet proved to be more exciting as indi­cated by the closeness of the score. Louis Carnesale, a 5-8 junior, led the Irish by pinning his opponent and providing six team points. Freshman Greg Fleming was also impressive, winning a major decision and collecting four team points for Notre Dame. Because of injuries to both wrestlers in the 190-pound class, Dave Helmer had to wrestle at 
190. Helmer, who usually wrestles in the I77 division, was able to tie his opponent, providing two more crucial team points. The Irish won the match by a three-point marg1.n instead of two because the referee deducted one point from the Olivet team score for unsportsmanlike con­duct. 
"Our young guys and our sub­stitutes did a great job for us, and I'm glad we won," commented Coach BrotherJoseph Bruno, C.S.C., "but I don't wanrto wrestle like that again because our competition is getting progressively tougher." 
At 8 a.m. yesterday, the wrestling 
team returned to South Bend with 
two more victories under their belt. 
This time the victims of the Irish 
were Western Illinois and Millikin. 
This time the results were not nearly 
as close as Notre Dame clobbered 
Western Illinois, 34-6, and Millikin, 
47-3. 
Al!.ainst Western Illinois the Irish 
NBA Standings 
NBA Eastern Conference Atlantic Dlvlalon 

w L Pet. GB Philadelphia 13 3 .813 Boston 12 5 .706 1.5 New York 12 6 .667 2 New Jersey 8 7 .533 4.5 Washington 6 11 .353 7.5 
Cantral Division 

Milwaukee 11 6 .647 Atlanta 8 8 .500 2.5 Detroit 8 9 .471 3 
Chicago 5 9 .357 4.5 Cle¥eland 5 12 .294 6 Indiana 4 12 .250 6.5 
Western Conference Mldwell Dlvlalon 

w L Pet. GB Dallas 11 4 .733 Denver 9 8 .529 3 Utah 9 9 .500 3.5 KansasC11y 8 9 .471 4 Houston 6 10 .375 5.5 San Antonio 6 12 .333 6.5 
Pacific Dlvlalon Los Angeles 12 4 .750 Portland 11 6 .647 1.5 Seattle 9 8 529 3.5 Golden Slate 9 9 500 4 
Phoen1x 5 12 .294 7.5 San Diego 5. 13 .278 8 
Lalit night'a ResuHa 
New York 127. Washington 93 Golden State 106. Kansas City 95 

were paced by pins from Eric (heavyweight). Crown won the 126 Crown, Luke Disabato, and Matt class by a forfeit. Stamm. Especially impressive w'lS 
The Irish will travel to TerreDisabato. Disabato, a sophomore, is Haute, Ind., today to compete in thethe third-ranked Irish wrestler in the Indiana State tournament. Besides150 class. 

bringing a perfect 4-0 record to ISU,"Luke wrestled aggresively and, Notre Dame will once again carry a technically, his moves were depleted lineup with many sub­working," said Bruno. "I was very stitutes. Bruno wants to rest some of 

pleased. He just looked really good." 
his first-team wrestlers so that their 

1n losing by 44 points, Millikin injuries will heal in time for the was simply outclased by the Irish. upcoming triangular meets. Notre Dame won every match ex­
cept in the 190 class. Included in "We're getting a lot ofmileage out those wins were pins by Helmer of our inexperience," said Bruno. (167-pound class), Fleming (118), "And that's giving our young guys 
Glenn Glogas ( 134), Carnesale experience, and it's giving all the in­( 1 58), and Matt juries time to heal." 
The Observer Friday, December 2 , 1983 -page 14 
Irish swimmers start season successfully 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
The swimming season at Notre Dame got off to an impressive start last night, as the Irish women's swim 
team  defeated  the  Hornets  of  
Kalamazoo  69·43,  at  the  Rockne  
Memorial Pool.  

The men's team also opens its season this week, in the 19th Annual Notre Dame Swimming Relays, which take place tonight at 7 p.m. at the Rockne Pool. 
Dennis Stark, coach of both the men's and women's teams, was decidedly pleased with the women's performance last night. Besides being an important confidence· building win for the team, Stark pointed out that the team's effort answered a lot of questions about the depth of this year's Irish women's squad. 
"This being our first meet, we went into it sort of blind," noted Stark. "The fact that we had a solid lead at the halfway point enabled us to change our lineup a bit and get a look at some untested people. It's very early in the season to say, but I believe that, overall, this team has more depth than last year's." 
Last year's women's team posted a 7·4 record in only its second season of varsity competition. This year, Stark has eight monogram winners returning, who, along with· some talented newcomers, form the nucleus of a potentially outstanding team. 
It was an all-around team victory for the women last night, as fifteen different swimmers placed in the in­dividual events for the Irish. On the strength of a convincing victory in the first event, the 200-yard relay, tht· Irish took an early lead in the meet, which they never relin­quished. 
The winning relay team, consist­ing ofseniors Raili Tikka, who is one of tht• co-captains, and Karen Bobear, along with sophomore Julia Boss and freshman Suzanne Devine, was a typical example of the com­bination of youth and experience that Stark hopes will make the 
women successful this season. 
Tikka ( I 00-yard backstroke), Boss ('50-yard freestyle), and Devine ( 200-yard freestyle) also went on to win individual events. Also out­standing for the Irish were junior Colleen Carey, who won the 100­yard freestyle event and anchored the winning 400-yard freestyle relay team, sophomore Joan Burke, who won the '500-yard freestyle event and placed second in the 1000-yard freestyle, and freshman Monica Walker, who finished first in the 200-yard individual medley. 
It should prove to be a busy weekend for Stark, who, in addition to the women's next meet against Western Ontario on Saturday morn­ing ( I 0 a.m. at Rockne Pool), opens his 26th season as Notre Dame men's swimming coach tonight in the Notre Dame Relays. Also competing in this annual event are Wabash, Wayne State, and Xavier. The men also have a meet with Western Ontario on Saturday, at I p.m. at the Rockne Pool. 
As far as the men's team is con­cerned, Stark is looking for a sig­nificant contribution from the newcomers because of the loss of eight seniors to graduation. Leading this year's team will be senior co­captains Daniel Flynn and AI Har­ding. Flynn holds the varsity record in the 200-yard butterfly, and Har­ding holds five freestyle records. 


Stark is also looking for major con­tributions from senior freestylers Daniel Carey, William Green, and Timothy Jacob. The Irish have ex­perience and talent in the other major strokes as well, with juniors Paul Benz (backstroke), Brian Casey (butterfly), and sophomore Blaise Harding (breaststroke). Stark also has two experienced divers in juniors Richard Yohan and Michael Kennedy. The team will need solid 
contributions from leading fresh­men prospects Stephen Coffey, John Harding, and MarkJensen, however, in order to improve on last season's 9·4 record. 
Overall, the outlook appears 
bright  for  Irish  swimming  this  
season.  With  the  experience  and  
leadership  ability  of  Stark,  and  

plenty of talent on both squads, this should be a big year for swimming at Notre Dame. 
CONTEST RULES 

1 Partocopatoon on the SAVERLINE Wtn A Trip To Flonda Contest IS lomoted to Umvers1ty of Notre Dame fulltime and parf11me under· graduate and graduate students 
2 Only an anginal stud~nt servtce application submttted whtch mcludes all tnformalton completed wolf be eligible for the drawmg 
3 Only one student servtce appltcatinn per student shall be ellg1ble for the drawmg 
4 Applications shall be submitted to M•d­Amencan Communocatoons Corp P 0 Box . 1548 Terre Haute IN 47808 
5 The SAVERLINE· Wtn A Tnp To Flonda Contest IS not transferable by the w1nners 
6 Drawong wolf be held January 18 1984 at noon local ttme by Mtd·Amenc<~n Commun•· cat1onsCorp OneMod-AmerocanSquare 200 SouthEtghthStreet Terre Haute IN47807or at such other locatoon designated by the 
company 
7 Deadline-All servoce applicat1ons must be postmarked on or before December 21 1983 8 Tnp must be taken pnor to June 30 1984 and arrangements made at least thorty 1301 days 
prior to departure 
9 No purchase necessary to become eligible for thiS tnp Vood where prohibited by law 10 Value of prize not to exceed $500 00 per trip 
cost to the company and two f21 Inos wolf be 
awarded 
What's up? 
Here's what your teams are doing 
this weekend 
TODAY men's swimming ?p.m. Notre Dame Relays 
?p.m. Rockne Pool 
hockey at St. Norbert's 

COMPARE THESE SAVERLINE BENEFITS. 
* 
Call to anywhere in the continental United States, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, twenty-four hours aday, seven days aweek. 

* 
Rates up to 45% lower than telephone company direct dial rates.

* 
No monthly service charge, no processing fee-Your only costs are the phone calls.

* 
Billing in half-minute increments to save even more.

* 
Use ANY touch-tone telephone in the South Bend area either on or off campus.

* 
The lowest cost service available to Notre Dame students.

* 
SAVERLINE© is theONLY company in South Bend to provide lower rates on in-state long distance calls approved by the Indiana Public Servlc8CommTssion. 


TOMORROW 
men's basketball vs. UCLA 2p.m. ACC Main Arena 
N D women's basketball vs. UCLA 5p.m. ACC Main Arena 
SMC basketball 
at Goshen College Classic 
hockey at St. Norbert's wrestling at Indiana State Tournament 
NO women's swimming 
vs. Western Ontario 10a.m. Rockne Pool 
men's swimming vs. Western Ontario 1 p.m. Rockne Pool 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
:~ . HERE'S YOUR CHANCE 
~~~~~u-WIN A TRIP TO 

~I ~~:J.···~ FLORIDA
-/ .,....® ~ 
. '-~~"' 
AND SAVE UP TO 45°/o 
ON ALL YOUR LONG DISTANCE CALLS 
FROM 
SAVERLINE® 
THE LONG DISTANCE DIFFERENCE 


SAVERLINE® Student Service Application 

__ Contest. Send this application to: Please send my monthly Saverline statement to my Mid-American Communications Corp o Campus Address D Permanent Address. P 0 Box 1548 Terre Haute. IN 47808 
Student Signature/Date 
COMPARE THE RATES: 









INDIANA BELL Chicago 
SAVERLINE·SOUTH BEND TO: 
DESCRIPTION 
1.58 
2.05
4.5 minute 
daytime Miami, FL 
5.15
10 minute 
4.00 
daytime New York City, NY 2.5 minute 
.89
..58 
evening Elkhart, IN 
.45
7 minute 
.35 
night Louisville, KY 
7.27
5.85
45 minute 
night Minneapolis, MN 
6.35
5.50
25 minute 
evening 

To start your Saverline@' service today and enter to win a trip to Florida-Complete the Service Applica 
·······-······-··········r···----·-··---------········---·················------------------­
--~------------------, 
-Y 

~~.cll.at~-------------------------------------F-r_hl_a_y,_o_e_c_~
b_er_z ,l_9_8_3_-P_ag_e l5 

BlQom County 

Fate 
1i/{0L0qY/f ()N YOU 
f!IJY I 
., 

Mellish 
' 
The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc, 

DEAR, r: L£Aif.NEIJ II I.IJNt;, 
fiMC A6.0 1HA/ YOU'K£ NOr 
HAPPY IJ!Jt£SS "(OU'K£ 
wo((K.'ItNf:r-so, You. .rusr Go AHOID AIJP wotey 
ACROSS 33 Texas 1 Llama land athlete 5 "-lovely 34 See22A 
as a tree" 36 Expression 10 Tease used when a 14 Fusses plan goes 15 Before the wrong 
present 40 Adjective 16 Biblical suffix preposition 41 Troy 17 Is treated 42 Bone: pref. 
fairly 43 Small 20 Vast explosive 21 Soiled 45 Groupof 22 Poetic nine 
preposition 47-die 23 -·yourself 48 Hatchet 25 Beaveror 49 Discernment 
squirrel 52 Chicken 29 Mundane Little 32 Seed was one 
covering 57 Goteven 
Thursday's Solution 
12/2/83 
1212183
All Rights Reserved 
ALPACINO 
Tonight and Friday 
\.'In,_ 
Berke Breathed 
60 Dad's sister 28 Lodge 61 Emulate the member 
Piped Piper 29 Ending for 62 Porgy Roman or 63 Fury arab 64 Sprinter 30 Untied 
Jesse 31 Gossipy 65 Checks woman 33 Stage 
DOWN whisper 1 Summon 35 Wind 2 First place instrument 3 Newspaper 37 Smaller 
section, 38 Pearl Buck 
for short heroine 4 UN member 39 Long, long 5 Catalogue time 6 Feeling of 44 Property 
resentment 45 Demands 7 Burden 46 Sleuth 8 USgovt. Wolfe 
agcy. 48 Wayto 9 Mal de-Fairbanks 10 Anderson 49 Despot 
the actress 50 Greenish· 11 Lulu blue 12 Photocopy 51 Chanted 13 Sacred 52 Swiss 18 Prayer stream 
ending 53 Has to 19 Newspaper 54 Native 
VIP of 1A 23 Fact 55 Ticket end 24 Odd, in the 56 Cooking 
highlands measures: 25 Noted abbr. 
physicist 58 Tokyo, 26 Ape once 27 Kitchen 59 Morning 
gadget mist 
Campus -. 
•12:
15 p.m. -Presentation, "Culture Gender and Nonverbal Behavior," Dr. Nan Sussman, library Lounge 

•12:15 
p.m. -Colloquium, "American Refugee Policy," Prof. Gilburt Loescher, and John Scanlon, 500 library 

•3:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "Mathematics with the Ear­ly Wittgenstein," Dr. Phyllis Rooney, library Lounge 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "And Justice For All," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Women's Caucus, S1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Chan Is Missing," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m.-ND/SMC Theatre, "The Investiga­tion," Center for Continuing Education, $2.50 


Saturday, Dec. 3 
•11 
am. -Swimming, ND Women vs Western Ontario, Rockne Pool 

•2 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. UCLA, ACC Arena 

•5 
p.m.-Basketball, ND Women vs. UCLA, ACC Arena 

•7 
p.m. -Senior Class Cocktail Hour, Haggar College Center, Sponsored by SMC Senior Class, 

•7 
and 9:15 p.m. -Film, "Kramer vs Kramer," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, S 1 

• 
7:30 p.m. -Film, "The Great Justice," library Auditorium, Sponsored by Chinese Association 

•8 
p.m. -ND / SMC Theatre, "The Investiga­tion," Center for Continuing Education, S2.50 


Sunday, Dec. 4 
•8 p.m. -Concert, Handel's "Messiah," Notre Dame Chorale, Sacred Heart Church 
TV Tonight 
8p.m. 16 Mr. Smith 
22 Dukes ofHazzard 
28 Benson 
34 Washington Week in Review 
8:30p.m.  16  Jennifer Slept Here  
28  Webster  
34  Wall Street Week  
9p.m.  16  Manimal  
•  22 28  Dallas Lottery  
34  Inside Business Today  
9:30p.m.  34  International Edition  

Far ·side 
UNIVERSITY NIGHT All staff, faculty, and administrators 
are invited to the Alumni-Senior Club tonight from 9:30-2:00 
We hope all will be festive for this truly fun-filled eveningDrink specials will be flexible




.----------------------­
_.; 
It's youth against expenence as ND battles highly-ranked UCLA 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 
To say UCLA-Notre Dame is just another basketball game would be like saying World War II was just an­other skirmish, Christie Brinkley is just another woman, and a Rolls Royce is just another car. L.ct there be no doubt about the matter ­when these two titans collide tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. under the South Dome of the ACC before a capacity nowd and national televi­sion audience, it will be a big game for both teams. 
These arc two teams with some­thing to prove. For Digger Phelps and the 2-I Fighting Irish, a victory over the Bruins would erase the painful memories ofa dismal perfor­mant·e against Indiana t on Tuesday night, as well as serve notice to the NCAA selection committee that the Notre Dame is a tournament conten­dt:r. Mt:anwhilc, Larry Farmer's 2-0 Bruins want to show the nation they arc one of the top squads in the na­tion this season, and deserve a high­er ranking than tht: ninth-place slot bestowed upon them this week b}' 
The Associated Press. 
Phelps concurs that this is a key game for both clubs. "Year in and year out, the UCLA game is a benchmark for us," notes Phelps. "We point for tht·m and they point for us, and that's what makes it spe­cial. They've beaten us six straight times, so maybe we're due." 
If the Irish are to snap the Bruin string tomorrow, they'll need anoth­er fine game from team captain Tom Sluby. The 6-4 swingman from the nation's capital leads the Irish in scoring with a I 5.7 points per game average, and he has scored most of those points on outside jumpers. Despite an erratic second half against Marist last weekend, Sluby is still connecting on 61 percent of his shots from the fioor. 

While the Irish look to Sluby, UCLA will rely on 6-7 all-America candidate Kenny Fields to shoulder most of the scoring burden. Last year's Pac-1 0 player of the year, Fields is netting 12.5 points per con­test, scoring with a soft jumper and a strong inside game. He has earned the respect of Phelps, who says "Fields is as good a player as there is in the nation." 
However, both teams will need support from the other folks on the court. "We don't have a superstar, but we've got a lot of people who will contribute," comments Phelps. 
One of those players is sopho­more forward Jim Dolan, who averages 12.3 points per game. Dolan leads the inside game, which has disappointed many Irish fans in the first three contests. Tim Kempton and Ken Barlow, Notre Dame's twin towers, need to in­crease their offensive production in order for t the Irish to challenge the powerful Bruins. 
However, the front line can t not concentrate solely on offense. UCLA also has some big men who can put the ball through the hoop. 7-0 junior center Stuart Gray continues to im­prove in his consistency. Gray is averaging 10.5 points per game, while pacing the Bruins in rebound­ing at nine caroms a contest. Phelps sees Gray as a key factor in tomor­row's matchup. 
"So much will depend on how well Stuart Gray handles himself inside," says the veteran Irish men­tor. "When he plays well in terms of scoring and rebounding, he can make UCLA a great team. Kempton played well against him last year, but this is another season." 
Should Gray falter, the Bruins will turn to their "super-sub," Gary Maloncon. Maloncon came off the bench in UCLA's 85-58 opening win over Idaho State to pace the team with a career-high 16 points and eight rebounds. He's a physical player who won't be afraid to mix it up under the basket with Notre Dame's big men. 
While the "aircraft carriers" will 
provide fans with plenty of action, 
the backcourt matchups could 
prove to be the most exciting. Both 
teams have plenty of quickness at 
the guard slots, and the tempo ofthis 
game could be extremely rapid. 
For the Irish, flashy freshman 
guard Scott Hicks leads the Notre 
Dame backcourt crew with 12 
points an outing, and he also leads 
th e team in steals with seven. He 
receives scoring support from 6-5 
sophomoreJoseph Price, who pours 
home 1 I points per contest. At the 
point guard slot, sophomore JoJo 
Buchanan and junior Dan Duff have 
split the task ofdirecting Phelps' full­
court press on defense and run-and­
shoot philosophy on offense. 
The new quickness in the 
backcourt pleases Phelps as he tries 
to matchup with the blazing Bruins. 
see UCLA, page 11 

Tough battle with UCLA 
Irish women look to bounce back 
1M Ob5crva/Paul Clfudli 
Donald Royal is one ofthree freshmen that will be playing a major rolefor Digger Phelps this season. Tbey represent the second ofwhat Phelps hopes will be four consecutive excellent classes of recruits. For more on thefreshmen, see story below. 
The Freshmen 
Hicks, Royal, and Bowen will play big role in '83-'84 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSportsEdttor 
"Depth" is the key word when summing up what this year's crop offreshman will bring to the 1983-84 Notre Dame basketball team. The three freshmen players, Scott Hicks, Donald Royal, andJohn Bowen, add to the core ofa relatively young, but experienced, team. 
In recruitingthis year'sclass, Irish head coach Digger Phelps came up with a second guard in Hicks, a quick forward in Royal, and a rock­'em-sock-'em type front liner in Bowen. Although Phelps lost prize prospect Dave Popson to North Carolina, he seems to be satisfied with his new additions to the Irish squad. 
''I'm happy that we have depth," says Phelps. "Ifanything, the freshmen give us the depth we haven't had for a while. Now we're so competitive in practice, and that's very, very good for us. Ifyou don't work, you sit." 
The class of'87 is also Chapter Two ofthe four good recruiting years that Phelps hopes to put back-to-back. Puttingfour good years together would likely give Notre Dame the power status in college basketball that they lost two years ago with their I 0-1 7 season. 
"What I'm looking to do is get three good classes back-to-back and then start on the fourth class," Phelps says. "Once you get four classes back-to-back, I think you're there. The year we got to the Final Four in '78, we had four (good) classes." 
Phelps has already signed four fine players for next year, so he has essentially completed stage three ofhis plan. 
When those four arrive on the scene next year, they will meet up with some experienced sophomores. Hicks, Royal, and Bowen all should see considerable playing time this year. 
"We're a young team so we're going to get these guys playing time," says Phelps in reference to the freshmen. "And they're going to grow from their mistakes." 
The freshman who has seen perhaps the most duty so far in this young season is the 6-3, 180-pound Hicks. Making his Notre Dame debut Nov. 16 against the Yugoslavian Nationals, the native ofIn­dianapolis, lnd, delighted the Irish crowd with his 20 points and five rebounds, leading the team in scoring and being its third-best rebounder that night. 
The fact that Hicks does so well in the rebounding department despite his smaller stature is really no surprise. He pos.'iCsses excep­tional jumping ability, as evidenced by the fact that he led his high school team, Indianapolis Cathedral, in rebounding during both his junior and senior years. And Hicks did this despite being flanked by taller teammates, one ofthose being current Irish mate Ken Barlow. 
"I think that my biggest strength is my ability to jumpquick," says Hicks, "but I need to work on my backcourt game a little more be­cause I played forward in high schooL" 
see FRESHMEN, page 11 

UCLA Pep Rally 
TONIGHT 
7:30p.m. 
ACC Pit 
Speakers: AI Maguire Digger Phelps Tom Sluby and others 
I I 
"It's a sign ofa good team to profit from its setbacks," says DiStanislao. "The more time we can put between us and last week the better." 
"The team's been playing hard in practice this week and I think they'll be ready." 
What the Irish will have to be ready for is a 2-0 Lady Bruin squad that has had a large turnover in per­sonneL Graduation has not hurt Coach Billie Moore's team, though. Rather, some key people have quit the team this year. One of those people, 6-1 junior Necie Thompson, was the team's leading scorer and rebounder the past two years. An­other, Jackie Joyner, was also a key performer for Moore. 
"They don't have Necic orJackie," says DiStanislao, "but they really don't seem to have lost much. They've picked up a couple of girls from Holland who have taken over." 
The two Dutch players about whom DiStanislao is talking are Marja van Hclvoort and Annette Kcur. Their height -van Helvoort is 6-4 and Keur is 6-3 -helps out a team that has returned most of last year's backcourt. 
Sophomore point guard Michelle McCoy is the leader of the offense. McCoy is among the best point guards in the country, and, while she does have the ability to direct the run-and-gun offense that UCLA used last year while compiling an 18-11 record, she also is able to direct the more balanced attack that UCLA will be using this year. 
Joining McCoy in the backcourt is outside threat Anne Dean. Dean ap­pears to be one of the people that the Bruins will be looking to for scoring punch. She led the team in scoring in the Bruins' last game, a 96­
see WOMEN, page 10 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
If at first you don't succeed ... 
The Notre Dame women's basket­
ball team, comingoff a poor showing 
in the Notre Dame Classic over the 
Thanksgiving weekend, gets another 
<:hance to beat a nationally-known 
power tomorrow as a familiar op­
ponent, lJCLA, visits the ACC in the 
second half of a men's-women's 
doubleheader. 

The Irish have been trying to break into the big time and the Bruins have played a major role in seeing that they don't make it. The teams have played three times in the last two years, with the Bruins taking all three. Both games last year turned out to be routs. However, with a better team than in past years, Irish coach Mary DiStanislao is looking for her team to rebound from last weekend and treat the visitors rudely. 




