
• • • Romero -page 7 
Heart recipient Barney Clark dies 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -Barney pulmonary artery, then snapped the Clark, the world's first and only plastic ventricles into the cuffs. recipient of a permanent arti t ficial For the remainder ofhis life, Clark heart, died at the University of Utah was tethered by two 6-foot hoses to Medical Center late yesterd t ay, his the 375-pound heart drive unit. 112th day with the device, said Although theJarvik-7 represented hospital spokesmanJohn Dwan. the last chance for life for Clark, doc­
Clark died at 10:02 p.m. MST from tors had stressed to him it was ex­"circulatory collapse and secondary perimental. Consent forms warned to multi-organ system failure," the implant could bring pain and Dwansaid. repeated surgery, and problems 
He would not elaborate im­with the artificial heart would likely mediately, but said Dr. William C. cause his eventual death. DeVries, who implanted the plastic Clark's wife told a social worker heart Dec. 2, was with Clark, as were that a couple weeks before the Dr. Lyle Joyce and the 62-year-old operation her husband told her he Clark's wife, Una Loy. wanted to do it because it could be a 
Clark, then 61, had run out of op­great success for him, and, if it tions when he was selected to wasn't, he would have the "rare op­receive the jarvik-7 artificial heart portunity to help mankind." by a University ofUtah Medical Cen­Their son Stephen, a Seattle sur­ter paneL geon, said he doubted his father had 
The retired dentist from the really expected the operation to Senior Bruce Barron is fitted for a tux for the Seattle suburb ofDes Moines, Wash., work. upcoming Seniorformal byemployees ofCentury ., was suffering from cardiomyopathy, "His interest in going ahead, he a degenerative disease of the heart told this to me, was to make this con­muscle that was rapidly sucking the tribution, whereas the only other 
President's speech 
life out ofhim. way was to die ofthis disease," Step­'rhe fist-sized, air-driven, hen Clark said. polyurethane pump was his only · The Clarks' other children, Gary 

Reagan proposes futuristic defense 
hope. Clark and Karen Shaffer, live in the 
After Clark arrived at the medical Seattle area. WASHINGTON (AP)-President retaliation. years, probably decades, ofeffort on center in late November, his condi­· Until a few years ago, Clark was an Reagan said yesterday night the Reagan said it could be the turn of many fronts." tion deteriorated quickly. He was avid golfer and at one time was presi­United States will begin work on a the century before such defensive Reagan's proposals came as he near death when rushed to the dent ofthe Rainier Golf and Country futuristic defense system which weapons could be produced. Ap­renewed his push for a major operating room late Dec. 1, the night Club. "He used to go on a lot ofgolf could destroy Soviet missiles in parently, his plan envisions laser and defense buildup, even as the House before he had been scheduled for trips," Stephen Clark said. flight and render "these nuclear particlebeam technology which cur­neared a vote on a Democratic the history-making heart implant. But Clark's life following the im­weapons impotent and obsolete." rently exists more in theory than budget plan which would slash that 
In a seven-hour operation, plant was a tough struggle The plan, announced in a national­fact. increase by half. 
DeVries removed Clark's failing punctuated with hope, despair and ly broadcast speech from the Oval "Would it not be better to save Currently the United States and natural ventricles. While a heart­days oflittle or no improvement. Office, foreshadows a ajor lives than to avenge them?" Reagan the Soviet Union are virtually lung machine kept the patient alive, Clark suffered the pain and departure from three decades of said. He said that after consulting banned by treaty from deploying an DeVries cut and sewed cuffs to the repeated operations the consent strategy calling for deterring nuclear with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and anti-ballistic missile system ( ABM ). aorta and the left and right atria and form had warned of. warfare with the promise of massive other advisors, "I believe there is a "Tonight, consistent with our better way ...that we embark on a obligations under the ABM treaty program to counter the awesome and recognizing the need for close
Votingsetfor Wednesday 
Soviet missile threat with measures consultation with our allies, I am that are defensive." taking an important first step," that He said such a system posed a would employ different tech­


Nine nominated for Senior Fellow 
"formidable technical task" that nologies, he said. might not be accomplished before Specifically, Reagan said he was
By MICHELE DIETZ tributions to the nation and the Notre Dame and its students, pulling the end ofthe century. "directing a comprehensive and in­Senior StaffReporter world to improve situations in areas together all the attributes ofND that "Yet current technology has at­tensive effort to define a long-termsuch as world hunger, immigration, make it special -academic, social, tained a level of sophistication research and development programNominations for Senior Fellow, third world struggles, and, most and spiritual." She added, "He's not where it is reasonable for us to begin 
now narrowed to nine, have been recently, nuclear disarmament. He only a mentor, he's a friend." See SPEECH, page 8
this effort," Reagan said. "It will take handed in by members ofthe class of was nominated by seniors who said Father Thomas Blantz, chairman '83. One of the candidates will be he is "the greatest president this Uni­and professor of history, is another chosen on voting day next Wednes­versity has ever had. candidate for '83 Senior Fellow. In day, March 30. Also nominated was Father John his 17 years of service to Notre 
Philosophy profpromotes
Senior Fellow is a member of the Fitzgerald, who is "graduating" or Dame, Blantz has also served as vice­Notre Dame community who has leaving with the class of '83 to president ofstudent affairs, archivist contributed to the senior class and pursue a ministry among the poor. and hall rector. Blantz is also a '57 

search for realizable goals 
who embodies the values and ideals Known as "Fitz" to most people Notre Dame graduate. One senior of that class. Following guidelines during his seven years at Notre nominated Blantz because he is 
By TOM MOWLE 
established for the past three years, Dame, Fitzgerald is currently as­"involved with a large number of 
StaffReporter
the 1983 nomina.tions, which took sociate director of Campus Ministry seniors in making them aware of place March 8 9, restrict at Notre Dame. "Fitz exemplifies today's world and how other people 
An understanding ofrealizable ideals is required for improvement
nominees to those in the Notre what I feel is the today-Christian," have affected and changed it." 
ofthe world in which we live. 
Dame community, primarily be­said senior Mark Michuda. "He is Another ND graduate, Economics 
That was the essential message of philosophy professor Paul cause it is difficult, if not impossible very personable and cares about stu­professor William Leahy, was 
Weiss' second lecture in his three-part series on the blessings of for those outside of the ND com­dents. This is his last year and he nominated by seniorJim Gruden be­
liberty, "The World," which was munity to attend. For example, Alan would be honored to be the Senior cause "he epitomizes the spirit of given last night in the auditorium of Aida, who has been a popular can­Fellow." Notre Dame and is a teacher in the 
the Center for Continuing Educa­didate in years past, would be Stephen Rogers, professor in the truest sense." Leahy joined Notre 
tion. 
eliminated from the running. Program of Liberal Studies, is also Dame's faculty in 1963. 
Weiss, who presently teaches at The honor of Senior Fellow was among the nine. A Notre Dame Peter Crowe, who is currently 
the Catholic University of America, originated in 1969 when Senator graduate himself, Rogers has faced working with Holy Cross Associates, 
listed three conditions which must 
Eugene McCarthy was the ftrst not only the challenge of teaching, is also a nominee. Crowe is a more 
be met to arrive at a realizable ideal. recipient. Last year, Art Professor but also that of being blind. "This recent graduate of Notre Dame 
One must acknowledge that everyRobert Leader was chosen as 1982 professor has had more influence on ('82). Seniors nominating Crowe 
activity of a state possesses defects, Senior Class Fellow. None of the me than anyone else in my life," spoke of his "turn in his morals of 
understand that there exists an ideal 1983 nominees have been previous­senior Carrie Koplin said. "His joy life" from thinking ofoneselfto help­
without such defects, and realize ly selected for the honor. for life is incredibly inspiring." ing alcoholics in Portland with the 
that this ideal can also be achieved. 

Among the nine is Father Father Mario Pedi, assistant direc­Holy Cross Associates. 
The philosopher admitted "no Paul Weiss 
Theodore Hesburgh. Now serving tor ofstudent activities and rector of Charles "Lefty" Smith joins the 
ideal when realized remains ideal," but maintained that some ideal 
his 31st year as University president, St. Edward's Hall, is also among the candidates for Senior Fellow. Serv­
must be strived after in which "the good of man and the good ofthe 
Hesburgh has pushed for and main­candidates. Senior Marcia Timko ing as head hockey coach and 
state support one another." He presented the Preamble ofthe United 
tained academic excellence at Notre said her reason for nominating Pedi 
See FELLOW, page 6
Dame and has made countless con-was that "he brings out the best in See WEISS, page 8 
Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 2



News Brie/§ 
By The Obseroer and The Associated Press 

The national treasurer and freedom of informa­tion chairman ofthe Society of Professional Journalists, Sigma Delta Chi, will speak at Saint Mary's tonight about threats to the free access of information and what the society is doing to fight those threats. Robert Lewis will speak at 7:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. His visit is being sponsored by the Michiana Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists and the Michiaria Chapter of Women in Communications, Inc. Lewis has been a correspondent in the Washington Bureau ofNewhouse News Service since 1966. The Booth newspapers of Michigan are part of the Newhouse Newspapers. -The Obseroer 
A Chapter of the National Students for 
Gary Hart ( D-Colo.) is being organized on campus for the senator's presidential campaign. The group, organized by senior Tom Grus­cinski, will be campaigning in Saint Joseph County, Chicago, north­ern Michigan, and Fort Wayne, Ipd. Students interested in working for Hart's campaign should contact Gruscinski for more information. Interested law students should contact Mike Kenr.ey at the ND Law School. -The Obseroer 
The Indiana Department of Natural Resources has announced plans to test the St. Joseph River for contamination of dioxin -described as one of the world's most lethal poisons. Offi­cials say dioxin was found in preliminary testing by Michigan's Health Department in 10 southern Michigan rivers, one ofthem the St. Joseph near Benton Harbor, about 35 miles north of here. The announcement byjames Ridenour, chiefof the DNR, came Tuesday after he inspected construction at the new Twin Branch cold-water fish hatchery at Mishawaka. "We want to take every precaution be­cause there's much at stake," said Ridenour, referring to the SI.4 million hatchery and a long-range plan to turn the river into a recrea­tional stream. -AP 
Partofthe landinggearon a Frontier Airlines 737 jetliner collapsed yesterday as the plane was landing in Casper, Wyo., and both enginescaught fire, authorities said. All 96 occupants were evacuated with no serious injuries. It was the second landing gear accident on a Frontier 737 jet in two days and the third since August. Airport manager Terry Igoe said one passenger hurt her knee when she slipped off the evacuation slide and was taken to a hospital. He said there were no other injuries reported among the 91 passengers and five crewmen. Flight 445 had taken off from Denver's Stapleton International Airport and landed here about 10 am. The flight was originally scheduled to go on to Riverton, Wyo. The cause of the accident was under investigation. Meanwhile, the National Transportation Safety Board said in Denver that an investigation into the failure ofwheel rims on the landing gear ofanother Frontier 737 jet had been ordered because of an accident Monday at Denver. ­
AP 

Actress Gloria Swanson. the 83-year-old queen of the silent screen, is in a New York hospital, but her family won't allow hospital officials to tell what's wrong with her. Ray Rebhann, a spokesman at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, con­firmed yesterday that Miss Swanson had been admitted, but he declined to reveal why or when. "This is on instructions from the family," Rebhann said. "We are not permitted to give out any in­formation." One published account said she suffered an apparent heart attack Monday. Her husband and business manager, Brian Degas, was reported to be with her. Miss Swanson may be best known for her portrayal of an over-the-hill star in "Sunset Boulevard" in 1950. She also had roles in many silent movies. -AP 
Pianist Leon Fleisher. suffering from a mysterious ailment that incapacitated his right hand for nearly two decades, has canceled two weekend concert appearances in the nation's capital. The appearances with the Theater Chamber Players of the Kennedy Center scheduled for Saturday and Sunday in Washington were to be Fleisher's first public piano performance since last fall's in/augural conert of Baltimore's joseph Meyerhoff Symphony Hall. Chamber Players manager Angela Rooney said the Fleisher, 54, "did not have time to rest and prepare" for the appearances. The concert last Sept. 16 marked Fleisher's first two-handed public piano performance since his right hand was incapacitated by an involuntary muscle and nerve disorder 18 years ago. -AP 
Indiana's second heart transplant patient was released yesterday from Methodist Hospital, with a clean bill of health. Retired Indianapolis firefighter John McNeely, 5 I, has "done exceptionally well since his initial setback and has had a complete recovery," said cardiologist Timothy Beeson. McNeely developed pneumonia a few days after his surgery. Mrs. Gardner, Indiana's first heart transplant patient, was on hand to exchange best wishes with McNeely before his release. Mrs. Gardner visited McNeely regularly during his six-week hospital stay. -AP 
Mostly sunny and continued cold today. High mid to upper 30s. Fair and not as cold tonight. Low in the upper teens to low 20s. Mostly sunny tomorrow and a little warmer. High in the upper 30s to low 40s. -AP 
The Mob: organized creativity 
Election time at Notre Dame. To most students, the campaign posters begin to look alike, suggesting the same type of social and liturgical activities, as well as other improvements in student life. The suggestions of each ticket closely resemble each other and those of years past. One begins to wonder if it even matters which group wins. 
But this year, in the race for junior class officers, there was a ticket with a difference-theMob. 
It was difficult at first to even consider the can-dictates. When I first heard aout the Mob's somewhat unorthodox campaign, I was shocked to find that anyone would attempt to make what I considered a farce out ofstudent elections at the University ofNotre Dame. "ltalianized" names, assumed Sicilian accents, and hired hit men seemed out ofplace off the set ofThe Godfather. The terms like "Boss" and "Vice Boss" used by theMob sounded more like Chicago politics ofa few decades ago than Notre Dame student elections. 
Kathleen Doyle 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Thursday 


creased student participation in the campaigns. And secondly, by placing the other ticket members on the class advisory council, the officers are assured ofat least some hard-working, loyal council members. It would be far easier for the officers and council to work togeth­er toward realization of ideas which they all helped propose. 
The Mob ticket lost the chance to be in the run-off election by only four votes. Decker contested the validity of the election because some dorms did not 
But the Mob campaign.---------------__..:...---------. have enough ballots and 
was in many ways a com­
ment on student govern­
ment at Notre Dame: A 
satirical, sarcastic comment 
maybe, but not without sig­
nificance. 
Johnny "Big Tuna" Deck­er, the Mob's candidate for Boss (president) of the junior class said that the Mob thought the other cam­paigns lacked originality. "They say the same things 
year after year -happy hours, tailgaters. Nothing new and different. We thought we'd stir things up and show them what we thought of the same old junk year after year." 
Though only three others,Jim "Speak Easy" Gibbons, Dave "Bugsy" Minion, and Brian "Peach" Potasiewicz, were named with Decker on the official ballot, theMob consisted of 12 members. There were four lieutenants: Bob "The Cuban" Hannau, Johnny "Griefster" Griffini, Greg "Harold" Martino, and Lenny "Rocco" Bielcci. And four hit men: Lou "Sweetness" D'Agostino, Dave "Loverboy" Grotielli, Phil "Quick Finger" Luccini, and Jimmy "Tex" Jacobianco. 
The "organization's" platform explained the rather 
large ticket by simply stating "Twelve ofus are involved 
-more work done." Decker also said that if the Mob 
ticket had won, the other eight members would have 
filled the Junior Advisory Council positions that they 
wanted, allowing the group to continue working tog­
ther. 
This innovation of ticket size by the Mob has many benefits to the election process. First, if future student candidates follow the Mob's lead, it will allow for in-
therefore some sophomores were not able to vote. Deck­er reported this to Om­budsman and lloyd Burke then set up a committee to investigate the election. The five-member committee decided that there were not enough cases of infringe­ment to justify another elec­ton. "Even one case should be enough to warrant a re­election," Decker said. 

Decker and his boys did well in the men's dorms, and obtained a total of357 votes or 32.8 percent of the Class of 1985's vote. TheMob did not fare as well in the women's dorms. "Our failure in girls' dorms stems from three reasons," Deck­er explained. "A lot did not realize we were on the bal­lot and a serious and legitimate ticket. Second, we did not have a girl in our organization. Not that we have anything against girls. Third, there were some girls who thought our campaign was childish. We didn't hear a lot of this. This idea I feel is kind ofstuck up. Our idea was based on originality and having fun. What's a better idea 
for class officers?" Or is creativity a crime at Notre Dame.? 
The Obseroer announces the appointments of)ane Healey and Mike Sullivan as Assistant Sports Editors. Healey, a junior from Park Ridge, Ill., and Sullivan, a sophomore from Timonium, Md., will assume their posts immediately. In addition, Judy McNamara, a freshman from Rochester, Mich., will assume the post ofSaint Mary's Sports Editor. 
.TheDbserver 

Design Editor.........................•.•.• Tim Neely Design Assistant.••.....•.............. Mary Healy Tvpesetters .......................... )im Maclennan AI Novas News Editor................•........)elf Harrington Copy Editor............................. Beth Hackett Features Layout ................ Sarah Hamilton Editorials Layout..................... Tari Brown Sports Copy Editor ............... Mike Sullivan NDDayEditor .............................. Ann Baily SMC Day Editor........................ Tari Brown Typists:...................•......... J\lary Beth Porter Sarah Hamilton Ad Design.. . ......... Marilyn Larkin Pbotograpber ....................... Hamil Cupero Guest Appearances...•.......... Little Tommy Big Michael Roper Review Neither Bob Seger, nor Pete Seeger, 
but. 
Mary Sieger The King and Queen A Wondering Minstral ASenior Formal Bid 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home foolball Saturdays. excepl during exam and vacation periods. The Observer IS published by lhe students of Notre Dame and Sam! Mary"s Col­lege. Subscnp!IOns may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The 

Associated Press All reproduction 
rights are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 

·~--------------------------~ 
After your last exam, what toughquestions will you stillbefacing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers· One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: 
Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 
219-239-6385 

-

The Observer Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 3 

Undergraduate scholarships 
Faculty approves fund increases 
By LIZ MILLER said McKim. He cited the average Thanksgiving Break. 
News Staff income of parents of under­Some members of the Senate 
graduates as SSO,OOO per year, and expressed their unhappiness with 
The Faculty Senate adopted three said that the percentage of under­the comments made in the PACE resolutions regarding increases in graduates whose parents make Report on the "Catholic character of the amount offunds available for un­below 525,000 or 530,000 per year Notre Dame." In a rough draft of a dergraduate scholarships at a is "miniscule." letter to the Provost, a committee of meeting last night in the Center for The Senate also discussed the for­Senators stated: "In view of the Uni­Continuing Education. mat of the academic calendar. The versity's origins and its historical 
The first resolution urges the ad­possibility of lengthening the break continuity to the present day the ministration "to adopt the recom­between semesters to a month was primacy of Notre Dame's Catholic mendation of the PACE Report that discussed, as well as the possibility character cannot be gainsaid. This the endowment for undergraduate ofeliminating the Fall Break in favor character can be seen from all sides, aid be increased three-fold by of beginning the year after Labor at many levels, and continuously by 1990." Day and/or extending the every observer." 
The Senate also recommended 
that the administration "respond to 
the pressing need to increase the 

Democrats pass budget 
number of University-supported scholarships now being awarded to undergraduates by adopting a 25 percent scolarship plan as policy to 

during Reagan speech 
be implemented as soon as pos­WASHINGTON (AP)-In a sting­took office in 1981 that either housesible." 
ing rebuke to President Reagan, the of Congress signaled approval of aSenate Chairman Vaughn McKim House passed 229-196 yesterday tax and spending plan that hecalculated that this increase would 
night a Democratic budget plan that opposed.
cost S200 million by the year 2000, 
would slash his defense buildup by

and would constitute a seven-fold 
more than half, raise $30 billion in 

The vote represented a substan­increase in the funds available for new taxes and restore 533 billion of tial victory for House Speaker
undergraduate scholarships. his proposed cuts in social Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass., and
The final Senate recommendation programs. the entire Democratic leadership,
suggests that "additional funds re­The vote came just as Reagan who suffered one defeat after anoth­
quired to upport support an im­delivered a nationwide broadcast in er at the hands of Reagan and theproved scholarship policy be sought which he called for the develop­Republicans during the last twofrom alumni through requests for 
ment of futuristic anti-missile years.
annual gifts in support ofscholarship weapons and urged Americans "to
aid, and from other sources of an­tell your senators and congressmen The House plan doubtless will be
nual income including, if necessary, that you know we must continue to revamped in the Republican­
very modest tuition surcharges." 
Chairman Mckim described these restore our military growth. controlled Senate, and some officials surcharges as slight increases in tui­--"Ifwe stop in midstream," Reagan predict a gridlock as the two houses tion (for example SIOO per year) said, "we will not only jeopardize try to reach agreement on the final 
that would be set aside for scholar­the progress we have made to date, tax and spending prescription for ships. we will mortgage our ability to deter the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. But These recomendations were war and achieve genuine arms Democrats counted on their victory 
made as a result of the Senate's con­reductions. And we will send a signal giving them leverage in the con­
cern that highly qualified students of decline, of lessened will, to ference committee that will have to 
are being turned away from Note friends and adversaries alike." iron out differences between the 
Dame for purely monetary reasons, It was the tirst time since Reagan versions ofthe two houses. 
~ ~RIDCiLT ~cCiUIRL' ·-~ 


Regular Bridget's 
UPCOMING PARTIES 

Su~er Stroh's Partx 
Bargains
Thursday 
3/31 ... Little King's Party 

Mon-Tues ... 7·10 25¢ Beer 
75¢ Stroh's Cans 
4/4 .... Dynasty Day Party 

Wed· 241 Vodka Drinks 
March Shots Special
Free Drawing for 

Thurs ·Party Nite Stroh's Prizes!!! 
.Fri & S5!t · Beat The Clock Daily 241 Happy Hour 4-7 
Irish Whiskey $1 Shots 


14 in. 


On Any Pizza Pepperoni 
AnyTime Pizza With No Coupon $6.25 Student 1.0. 
Expires 3/31 

Required No other discount with this offer. 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over$1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation'? Under a special ~avy program we're doing just that. It"s called the ~uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it. you'll not only get great pay during your junior and senior years. but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciences, find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. 
For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: 
1·800·382-3782 
THE OBSEJIVER/HAMIL CUPEKO 

Sgt. Young of the South Bend Police Department gives tips to fight neighborhood crime to students considering moving off campus next year, due to the threat of a housing lottery. The presentation was part ofa program organized by thejuniorClass officers to notify students oftheir options to on-campus living. 
a a a D D D 0 o I o 0 OJIL ••. 
th€ 0BS€RV€R 1s now acc€ptlnqappl1cat1ons ~OR th€poSitiOn 0~ 
ASSIStant j:eatUR€S €bttOR 
appltcattons must B€ tn sy ~RtOay, 5 pm 
call SaRah at 239-5313 ~oR moR€ tn~oRmatton 




ICELANDAIR IS STILL 
YOUR BEST VALUE 

TO EUROPE 
r----WXEMBOURG--
RouNoTRIP 


FROM FROM BALTIMORE/ FROM NEW YORK WASHINGTON CHICAGO 
•

~upt'r APEX Fart·s Apnll-Apnl30. l9K3. 7-60 da~ stav. l4 day ad ...ance purl'hase requ1red 
ALSO LOW COST SERVICE TO PARIS. FRANKFURT, AMSTERDAM AND NICE. AND, REMEMBER. ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS: 
• Free deluxe motor,·oach fmm Luxembourg ro Frankfurt. Dusseldorf. Cologne. B1tburg. :\lannheim. Wuppertal and Kehl. Germany. • Bargain car rentals from $99/week in Luxembourg. • Free wme with dinner. cognac after. lce!anda1r tn Luxembourg. Lux<ur connertmg serv1ce to other desunauons. 
((h!cagn-\11dweek Fare. 1 Purchase tickets m l!. S. All fares subJect to change and government approval. See your travel agent or call8001555·1212 for the toll-free lcelandau number m )'OUr area. 

1' 

...--....-----------------~-------~--~------­
The Observer Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 4 


Live for God and His People as a •.. 

Capuchin 
a what? 

Capuchin Franciscans are a religious fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's world. 
Join us in promoting peace, edu~tion, and justice--in ghettoes... in jails... ih 
I soup kitchens... in parishes... in halfwa~ 
houses... on radio and TV. , 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans and people of the -~ .:rd World in Central America. 
Check out whei.her being a Capuchin, committed to living for God and his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more information. 
····-···········-~·-···· Clip and Mall Today! ..................... Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue. Detroit, Mf 48207 Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. Name Age ____ 
College ________ Address _____ 
City ______ State _____ Zip ______ 

.·.<.. 
-. ...:~ 

Aid to El Salvador 

Pomerleau condemns role of U.S. 
ByAMY STEPHAN don't want us to switch sides. I want conflict in terms of the domino ef­
News Staff the war to end. fect and a battle with the Soviet Uni­
"It's not our position to judge on. 
Continued military aid to El Sal­who's right. The fighting would stop Pomerleau said that the elections 
vador is the surest way to prolong tomorrow ifwe put our foot down." held in El Salvador last March were 
the war, according to Father Claude Pomerleau labelled the United "clearly an idiotic event with no sig­
Pomerleau of the Kellogg Institute States policy toward El Salvador as nificance except to give legitimancy 
for International Relations. "an obviously offensive affront to all to the government." He said he 
Reagan's proposed aid package Catholics in this country." believes that elections in the midst 
will go into effect today. The The American Council ofCatholic of a civil war are useless and that a 
package involves S177 million in Bishops recently issued a statement ceasefire must be negotiated before 
emergency military aid, training for on United States policy in El Sal­real elections can be held. 
troops, and economic aid, which, vador. Archbishop James Hickey of "Nobody wants the war," he 
according to Pomerleau, will be Washington, D.C. summed up the added. "We don't need the charade 
used to build bridges and roads for statement: "We come before ofelections to fl.nd that out." 
the army. Congress to recommend a course of Stating that the El Salvador 
Pomerleau said he believes that a action, promote dialogue, insist on a government is "thumbing its nose at large portion ofthe arms will end up ceasefue and support a negotiated us," Pomerleau explained that the El in the hands of the rebels who are end to the conflict." Salvadoran soldiers who killed four fighting the government. Pomerleau stated that the war in American churchwomen in 1980 
"The main source of aid to the El Salvador continues to be an espe­have still not been tried. rebels is the United States," he said, cially important concern for Chris­noting that corrupt members of El tians and Catholics at Notre Dame. Pomerleau does not see any hope Salvador's army sell arms to rebels as "I don't see any parallel to that the conflict will end soon. "This 
the supplies are unpacked from Vietnam," said Pomerleau. He aid package means at least six more ships. added, however, that the state months of civil war followed by an­
"I believe Reagan wants to department does see a parallel, other election charade at the end of prolong the war," said Pomerleau. noting that state officials refer to the the year." "He thinks it is a battle between the United States and the Soviet Union." 
Pomerleau noted, however, that 


Mobile home residents 
no one has been able to produce 
evidence that the Soviets are supply­
ing aid to the rebels. "The enemy is 

inhabit toxic dump site 
not Marxism but militarism," he 
said. 
WARSAW, Ind. (AP) -Bonte is However, some ofthe restrictions Although he does not deny that 
where the heart is -even if it's on a Kosciusko Circuit Judge Richard W. Niguaragua and Cuba are supporting 
site laden with hazardous wastes like Sand placed on the area which State the guerrillas in El Salvador, Pomer­
arsenic, lead and cadmium. Board of Health officials wanted to leau said he feels that "the real 
Breck Walls lives on the site of an vacate disappointed Walls. These in­criminal in El Salvador is the United 
abandoned hazardous waste dump clude a ban on gardening and no States." 
near Warsaw and he isn't interested new residents. Pomerleau described the war as in moving. "This is a nice area. I plan to stay one between "two armies ofkillers". 
A kosciusko County judge has here for a long while." He said that both armies seek out 
ruled Wails, who owns one of three While Walls was pleased, state of­and kill people opposed to their mobile homes on the 39-acre site, ficials say they're amazed by the resi­idealogies. 
and six other people may continue dents' reaction. The war in El Salvador is a civil 
to live there. "It's the first instance ofanyone in war between the army and the 
the state wanting to live near a haz­people and we are giving arms to "It's good news for me. I'm happy ardous landftll," said Daniel L. Foley, continue the war, said Pomerleau. the judge decided not to chase us off a spokesman for the Indiana attor­"We're on the wrong side, but I the land," Walls, 20, said Tuesday. ney generaL 
ATIENTION... 

STUDENTS! TEENAGERS! ADULTS! 
... ANYONE!!! 
The new nationwide "PEN PAL NEWSLETTER" is here! 

If you'd like to make new friends and keep in touch with them, then the PEN PAL NEWSLETTER is the WRITE way to do so! 
This newsletter will be devoted exclusively for those wishing to make new friends, and through this newsletter, your letters will be published! 
The PEN f1AL NEWSLETTER will also feature a PEN PAL PUZZLE SEARCH, a PEN PAL SPOTLIGHT OF THE MONTH, and much more! 
The first issue of the PEN PAL NEWSLETIER will be published in JUNE 1983 and every month thereafter. When you subscribe, your subscription is LIFETIME and you will automatically be listed within this first issue along with others all across the country. 
Subscribe now and receive as a gift, a FREE Pen Pal Writing Set, which includes a Pen Pal Pen, pencil, stationery, and a Pen Pal Folder! 
Go ahead...REACH OUT AND WRITE SOMEONE! 

·-----------------------~-----------------------~ 
NAME~------------------------------------------­
ADDRESS------------------------------~--------­
____ZIP
STATE
CITY ------~------------­
AGE ____ 
MALE_ FEMALE_ 
MY HOBBIES ARE: 

(Enclose check or money order for $10.00 for your LIFETIME subscription to the 
PEN PAL NEWSLETIER and send to:) . 
PEN PAL NEWSLETIER Graham-Sentral Publishing Co. P.O. Box 10307 2250 Lake Avenue/Suite 200 Fort Wayne, IN 46851 

L-----------------------------------------------~ 
., 


The Observer Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 5 


Toxic waste company challenges accusations 
OAK BROOK, Ill. (AP)-Officials 
of Waste Management Inc., the 
world's largest hazardous waste han­
dling company, said yesterday they 
intend to fight allegations of illegal 
and improper disposal practices. 
Waste Management also unveiled 
preliminary results of an internal 
audit of recent allegations of 
wrongdoing at disposal sites in Il­
linois, Alabama, Ohio, Pennsylvania, 
Kansas, Indiana and Colorado. 
"While many ofthe allegations ap· pear to be patently false and totally without foundation, we believe we must specifically respond to each and every accusation in as much detail as possible to restore the credibility that this company has earned through years of exemplary operation throughout the United States," said chairman Dean L. 
Buntrock. 
"No organization in our country 
has invested as much" in proper han­
dling of hazardous wastes, he said. 
Recent news reports sketching charges against the company trig­gered a sharp drop in Waste Manage­ment's stock this week. Buntrock said officials "arc perplexed at the beating our shareholders have taken since Monday ...They've lost near­ly a billion dollars." Waste Manage­ment hired a Chicago law firm to conduct an independent internal audit ofthe charges, Buntrock said. 
Among those charges are allega­tions that Waste Management tried to influence the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's handling of its permit applications by hiringJames Sanderson, a Denver lawyer, who had two stints with the EPA span­ning 13 months in 1981-82. 
Sanderson is alleged to have used 
his influence to have Waste Manage­
ment permit applications expedited. 
Waste Management contends the 
applications are still pending two 
years after they were filed. 
Joseph Karaganis, a partner in the Karaganis, Gail & white, said his firm's investigation is only 10 days old. 
He said there was no t evidence 
that Sanderson broke any laws, ad­
ding that Sanderson "took in­
credible pains" to act within the law 
to avoid having a conflict ofinterest. 
Karaganis also noted three former employees have made some of the charges against Waste Management and its subsidiaries. These charges, he said, reflect "obvious bias from disgruntled former employees." 
lllinois Attorney General Neil Hartigan on Monday sued the com­pany seeking $1. I million in penalties because it allegedly schemed to conceal disposal of car­


ASSOCIATED PRESS 

from his front yard. Several rivers in northern 
Newjersey crested early Tuesday and were begin· 
ning to drop, but many homes were stillflooded. 
cinogenic DCBs, dichlorobenzidine. 


Congress to put cap on natural gas prices 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Congress 
should cap natural gas prices until 
deregulation can bring the law of 
supply and demand back to the 
energy marketplace, Indiana Lt. 
Gov.John M. Mutz said yesterday. 
"If the law of supply and demand was allowed to work, natural gas prices might actually come down because ofthe glut ofsupply and the lower prices of competitive fuels," he said. "To protect.the consumers in the meantime, a cap needs to be placed on natural gas price until deregulation arrives." 
Mutz, who appeared before the 
House Energy and Commerce Com-


AMGeneral to build rival 'Jeep' in Indiana 
MISHAWAKA, Ind. (AP)-A su­periordesign for a vehicle to replace the Jeep as an Army main-stay and labor-management cooperation won AM General Corp. the S 1.2 bil­lion High Mobility Multi-Purpose Wheel Vehicle (HMMWV) contract, according to Rep. John Hiler, R-Ind. 
"AM General had a superior 
vehicle -geneal Dynamics' and 
Teledyne' vehicles just did not 
compare ...(and) because of the 
concessions labor made and be­
cause management sharpened their 
pencils, they were able to make a 
competitive bid," the 3rd District 
congressman said in a telephone in­
terview yesterday. 
The cooperation ofthe labor uni­on in negotiating a separate contract for the Mishawaka plant was a key factor in our decision to build the Hummer in Mishawaka," AM General president Lawrence H. Hyde said in a prepared statement. 
Hyde praised AM General's three­year Hummer development program, led by George W. Schar­bach, vice president of engineering and product development, and noted that the AM General design emerged on top after "many months of the most grueling and intensive testing" by the Army and Marines. 
"I was here when Studebaker 
closed and I'm so glad to see jobs 
finally coming back in," Odell 
(Duke) Newburn, president of 
United Auto Workers Local 5, said 
yesterday. 
"People need jobs so bad -I 
heard there were people lined up at 
2 am. out there in Mishawaka and 
they may not begin hiring for a 
year," the veteran union leadersaid. 
"The immediate impact is the 
jobs of AM General itself, and the 
multiplier effect is going to be im­
portant," said Robert Kovach, mayor 
of Mishawaka, a city that has lost 
hundreds of manufacturing jobs in 
recent years. 
Although the AM General plant is 
not within the city limits, Mishawaka 
intends to be as hospitable as pos­
sible to AM General suppliers 
looking for sites near the production 
facility, Kovach said. 
"Ifyou don't have head-of-house· 
hold-type jobs, you lose service jobs 
-jobs mean people and a healthier 
community," the mayor added. 
Hiler, discussing the behind-the­
scenes maneuvering in Washington 
leading up to Tuesday's Hummer an­
nouncement. emphasized the im­
pact of AM General's "proven track 
record" making Army trucks in 
South Bend in competition with 
General Dynamics and Teledyne, 
big defense contractors with no background making military vehicles. 
Hiler revealed tht he, Indiana Sens. Richard Lugar and Dan Quayle and other Midwesterners on Capitol Hill backed AM General with a political strategy that amounted to convincing the Army that the con­tract should be decided solely on the merits of the three designs. 
"AM General felt very strongly that if it was decided on a level playing t1eld, they'd win the bid," Hiler explained. By the time influen­tial Southerners like Sen. Strom Thurmond, R-S.C., mounted a politi­cal effort, we'd already negated its effect," he said. 
Teledyne intended to build the vehicle in South Carolina and General Dynamics planned to make its version in Alabama. 
AM general plans to start renova­tion of the former transit bus plant east of Mishawaka as soon as pos­sible although the actual hiring of production workers will not begin until late fall when reconstruction of the facility is completed. 

mittee, warned that the lack of a na­tional energy policy could spark "regional warfare." 
"It would begin over energy and expand to include fights over jobs, fresh water and grain," he said. 
The lieutenant governor noted that while the federal government has been debating energy policy "localities and regions have put to­gether what amounts to a patchwork quilt of energy plans. It is a national policy from the bottom up." 
High natural gas prices are threatening economic recovery, Mutz said. 
"Every month a new bill comes they (businesses) face possible shut­down or at best barely making it," he said. "Expansions which could add new jobs are out of the question when the next fuel bill might be the knockout blow for their business." 
Besides endorsing a cap on natural gas prices until deregulation takes place in 1986, Mutz said he supported legislation to: 
•Require 
pipeline companies to transport natural gas, no matter who is buying it or selling it. Such a re­quirement would allow gas utilities to shop around for the best price, he said. 

•Encourage 
industrial customers to use natural gas. 

•Put 
a cap on any mandatory es­calator clauses which boost fuel prices. 



''Whenever vou feel like smokin· a cigarette. instead of strikin' up a match, strike up the band-the· Larry Hagman Special Stop Smokin' Wrist Snappin' Red Rubber Band: Get one free from your American Cancer Society." 
Design Editor Meeting 
There will be a meeting of all Observer design editors Saturday, March 26, at 10:30 a.m. in the Observer office. Attendance is mandatory!!! 
tpiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIH...IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIII.........HIHIII.... 
NO Student Union is proud to present ..... . 
IIGOROJIDGIJ 
rr®rn~rro:m ~®~~ 
81Di&Tll 
between 

George Gilder presents the model for Reaganomics author of Wealth & Poverty and 
Robert Reich presents the Democrats' model for economic recovery has appeared on the cover of Atlantic Monthly 
ADMISSION IS FREE 
~.a::B .. a•:Ll!ZJBa:D'% a'ta:D.. a~•~ 
llllllllllllllllltiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIHIIIII..J 

. 
150fo Discount ~ not including· . 
sale 1tems 

N.D.-S.M.C. 
JEWELERS 
Students 
SINCE 1917







'.FOX'S 

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
University Park Mall and ·Concord. & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

---=,=-·--~-----~-----------~--~ -~----~ -~ -~---~-­
The Observer Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 6 
Draft registration issue 

Financial aid regulations revised 

If your goal is to become a professional, you owe it to yourself not to overlook any opportunities that will help you reach that goal. THE NAVY PILOT (20/20 vision is required) is the finest in the world, flying a variety of soph­isticated high performance aircraft. THE NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER (vision correctible to 20/20) is the quarter­back of the Naval Aviation Team with wide-ranging expertise from state-of-the-art Data Processing to Master Tacti­cian. If you are a college graduate, or are within three years of graduation, wanting to get your feet off the ground and earn over $27,000 a year within four years and attend the world's most prestigious flight school, contact or mail your resume to: 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
Education Department told 
Congress yesterday that regulations 
on student aid are being revised so 
applicants merely will have to say 
whether they have complied with 

draft registration requirements, but will not have to provide verification to their schools. 
"These provisions will reduce substantially the administrative bur­den that college., and schools believed was inherent in our proposed rule," Gary L. Jones, un­dersecretary of education, told the House subcommittee on post secon­dary education. 
However, the subcommittee ap­proved legislation yesterday that would postpone implementation of regulations tying student aid to draft registration for seven months, until Feb. 1, 1984. 
Other witnesses told the panel that colleges and universities which attempt to certify draft registration of male students applying for aid are in danger of being cited for con­tempt of court because of a Min­nesota federal court's temporary injunction against enforcement of the regulations. 
iKnigl}ts oftltt <!Iastl£


54533 Terrace Lane, South Bend (Across from Martin's on S.R. 23)

"CJ'Qowetm {!Jtt aQQ occagio"g" 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30

Come in and Browse 
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 SAT. 8:30-5:30

327lincolnway 232-3354 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry &Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Haircut only $6 with coupon 
(Hair must be washed day of cut) 
272-0312 277-1691 
($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 
The Education Department had 
published regulations implementing 
the so-called Solomon Amendment 
as of next July. They would have re­
quired students applying for finan­
cial assistance to indicate whether 
they had complied with the 
Selective Service registration re­
quirements. 
In addition, male students would 
have been required to provide 
verification of their registration 
compliance. 
But colleges and universities com­
plained this would put an unaccep­
table paperwork burden on them, 
and would cause delays and confu­
sion, for instance, in the case ofmale 
students who might lose their 
verification document from 
Selective Service. 
Jones said that under the revised 
regulations, a "Statement of Educa­
tional Purpose" already required of 
students seeking financial aid would 
be expanded to include questions 
on whether the applicant had 
complied with draft-registration re­
quirements. 
"A student's response to these items would be considered suffi­cient to meet the requirements of the amendment," he said. 

Female students, who are not re­quired to register for the draft, would indicate the law did not apply to them. 
Jones said this abbreviated proce­dure would be used in the 1983-84 and 1984-85 school years. Begin­ning]an. 1, 1985, he said, new stu­dent aid recipients would be required to provide documentation 
of  registration,  such  as  an  ack­ 
nowledgement  letter  from  the  
Selective Service system.  

A federal judge has issued an in­junction at the request of the American Civil Liberties Union and student plaintiffs who contend the regulations are unconstitutional and could lead to self-incrimination. A permanent injunction is being sought. 
• • . Fellow 

continuedfrom page 1 
manager of the ice rink since 1968, Smith was nominated by seniors for his contribution to and encourage­ment of the true athletic spirit at Notre Dame. 
Working for seniors in trying to get them jobs through his job as placement specialist at Notre Dame's Placement Bureau, Paul Reynolds is also one of the nine. "He has done more for seniors than anyone connected with the senior class," said senior Tom O'Connor. "He is friendly and genuinely con­cerned about our future." 
WANT TO FLY? 
575 N. Pennsylvania St. Office 646, Indianapolis, IN 46204
NAVAL AVIATION 1-800-382-3782 
.r----------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------­





Editorials 
Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 7 
Romero: violence cannot end violence 
"Brothers, each one ofyou is one ofus. We are the samepeople. The campesinosyou kill areyour own brothers and sisters. When you bear the words ofa man telling you to kill, remember instead the words of God, 'Thou shalt not kill' . . . No soldier is obliged to obey an ordercontrary to the law ofGod. It is 
time that you came to your senses and obey your conscience rather than follow a sinful 
Paulita Pike 
Guest Columnist 

command. The Chur_ch, defender ofthe rights 
ofGod, the laws ofGod, and the dignity of 
each human being, cannot remain silent in 
the presence of such abominations. We 
should like the government to take seriously the fact that reforms dyed by so much blood are worth nothing . .. In the name ofGod, in the name ofour tormentedpeople who have suffered so much and whose laments cry out 
to heaven, I beseech you, I beg you, I order you, in the name ofGod, STOP THE REPRES­SION!" 
Three years later, these same words ring with more force and intensity than when Monsenor Romero uttered them March 23, 1980, the day before the "voice of the voice­less" was forever silenced by an assassin's bul­let. 
For those of us who heard him, apprehension and fear gripped us. His strong condemnation of the security forces' indis­crimiG::!~ killings and his appeal to the sol­diers' consciefi~!'!' sealed Oscar Romero's fate. He had become an iiiW!erable presence to the powers ofrepression and as such !tad to be dealt with effectively. 
If they kill me, I will rise again in the people ofEl Salvador. 
Monsenor Romero's prophetic insight serves as testimony to his extraordinary per­ception and vision. The government powers unwittingly strengthened Romero's legacy to his people when they underestimated the depth and scope of his message of love based on the Gospel. Far from burying his spiritual dimension as they so hoped, this has flourished so that, more than ever before, people live by the message ofhope and justice that he instilled in them. 
In a public gesture that infuriated and em­
barrassed the right-wing elements in El Sal­
vador, Pope John Paul II made one of the 
strongest statements of his politically 
sensitive foray into Central America by visit­
ing the tomb of the fallen Archbishop in the 
cathedral ofSan Salvador. During his visit, the 
Pope said, "Within its walls are the mortal 
remains of Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo 
Romero, conscientious pastor whose love of 
God and service to his brothers led him to lose 
his own life in a violent manner as he 
celebrated the sacrifice of pardon and recon­
ciliation." 

Then during the open-air Mass the pope celebrated in San Salvador, he again recalled the slain archbishop. Romero, he said, "sought to end violence and reestablish peace. In com­memorating him, I ask that his memory be 
ever respected and that no ideological inter­est try to use for their own purposes his sacrifice, that ofa shepherd committed to his flock." In reiterating this quest for peace and reconciliation, the pope made clear that the oniy-possible means open to the pursuit ofthis end was through dialogue, which, he said, "is a sincere effort to answer, with the search for agreements, the anguish, the pain, the weari­ness, the fatigue of so many who long for peace." This statement reflects the pope's un­
equivocal suppon for the initial steps taken by 
Romero's successor, the newly-appointed 
Archbishop of San Salvador, Mons. Rivera y 
Damas, for opening up a dialogue among the 
conflicting panics in the country's civil war. 
By this time it should be more than obvious that funher military aid is not the solution to the war. On this Oscar Romero's third an­niversary, let us pray that his blood and the blood of the 40,000 that have since died, will 
serve to usher in a new day ofhope and peace. 


P. 0. BoxQ 
own, are generally handicapped in deciding what it calls us to be. One can certainly in our opinion. Certainly the teaching ofthe whether or not to accept the teachings of recognize the claim ofthe qmrch's teaching Church is not to be regarded on a par with the church because they do not know bow and its wisdom without construing it so other voices; on the other hand, this still to find those teachings. This is so because simplistically authoritative as Rice does and human if inspired teaching, it seems, is bet­DearEditor: they have been misled by professors into indeed as the Church hierarchy is ac­ter understood by those facing the birth con­
Recently The Observer published a letter thinking that those teachings are customed to do. trol decision a!> a calling to be more of mine regarding the need for Notre Dame determined by a search for consensus with We recognize the lasting wisdom of Christian-like in this most important of to provide its students with a fair oppor­the views of theologians given weight com­Humanae Vitae. What does it call us to be? human relationships than as a command to tunity to study the teachings of the popes parable to the declarations of the popes and We believe it calls our marriage to be be a good, rule-following Catholic. Truly, it and councils. Philip Foubert's critical councils. productive and unselfish and 1t warns us is grossly misunderstanding and response to that letter missed the point. Of After 14 years ofgraduate teaching at this against the contraceptive mentality so ( inadvertantly) insulting many couples to course, as Foubert quotes Pope John Paul II, school, I believe I have a fair basis for the damaging to the sharing basis of marriage. wholesalely reduce the use of "artificial" "the Church needs her theologians." a com­assessment that Notre Dame students are We believe that practicing some form of birth control to "mutual masturbation" as it ment which I had quoted in the longer ar­shortchanged through this violation of the birth control, after serious consideration, has been previously labelled in this space. ticle I had written in the December basic principles of truth-in-labelling. need not alter the proper exercise of sex; it Mark]effirs 
Scholastic. Charles E. Rice is still a gift, creativelv productive (even it 
However, the question is, "Who is in Professor ofLaw the immediate chance of conception is charge'" With contraception, for example, postponed) in that it brings the two givers Editor's Note: The appearance ofJetters to either it is always objectively wrong or it closer together. In its endorsement of the editor is subject to the daily space con­isn't. The pope says it is; I believe some of "natural" family planning, we think the straint~ of the editorial page. Letters should 
Who in charge? 
"To do" 
our local theologians would say it isn't. Church recognizes this. Disregarding health he under 250 words and address specific Similar divergencies can be found at Notre -considerations and the very positive issues. They must be typed and bear the
vs. "to be?'
Dame and other catholic colleges on a wide benefits of "natural" birth control and dis­address, telephone numher. and signature of range ofdoctrinal as well as moral issues: the allowing the abortifacient methods of con­the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not physical resurrection of Christ, transubstan­DearEditor: traception which do not respect human life, acceptahle. Reproductions, carbon copies, 
tiation, abortion, homosexual activity, etc. If I applaud Prof. Rice's _March 9 letter for there are still a few methods of "artit1cial" or letters addressed to persons other than the pope is not the final arbiter as to what is bringing into the discussion of the con­binh control which for some couples under the editor are not acceptable. All letters are objectively true and right in these similar traception controversy the question of the some circumstances may be conscionable. subject to editing. areas, who is? The "reputable" theologians? claim the Church lays upon Catholics con­Or each one of us? The popes and councils, fronting the issue ofbirth control. I detect in however, tell us unambiguously that the Rice's letters a perspective which is often 
pope is in charge and that we are bound to lacking in students' letter, namely, an ap­accept his teachings on such issues whether preciation that this issue is not primarily of we agree with them or not. the classroom but involves a fundamental 
The point I make is limited and simple: moral decision on the parr of the Catholic Notre Dame students are entitled to an believer. As recently married students, my assured and predictable opportunity to wife and I have confronted and made our study the teachings of the popes and coun­choice concerning contraception. As part of cils with a professor who unreservedly ac­the Catholic community of believers, we 
cepts those teachings. Some professors and looked to the reaching Church for guidance. courses fit that description, but the student We looked to this teaching reverently, not (especially the freshman) has no reliable for a rule which merely tells us what to do ­· wav to select them. The result is that Notre and thereby delivers us from truly facing the Dame studen t ts, through no fault of their need to scrutinize our consciences, but for 

News Edttor.._.......,._.....____________Bob Vonderheide
Editorial Board 
News Editor.·-···--···--···-····-······----·Mark Worscheh

Ihe_~er=========,=== 
Editor-in-Chief.....,._...__,,_,.._......_.David DziedzicBox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor··----··--·--·--..--Margaret Fosmoe Department Managers 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­Executive Editor-----------·----·------·--····Paul McGinn
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarilv reflect Production/Graphics··-----····Joseph Musumeci Business Manager ··············---··--·Daniel O'Hare
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report~d as ac­
Controller............................................Alex Szilvas
SportsEditor ·--····--···············----·Michael Riccardi Saint Mary's Editor··-······--····Anne Monastyrski Advertising Manager····--···--··--······--Chris Owen curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Circulation Manager........._._______ ._..Mark Miotto
Features Editor········-·--····--··········Sarah Hamilton .and the fref' expression ofvarnng opinionsoncampus. through letters. is encouraged. Photo Editor.....·-·········--------········--···--Scott Bower Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley (219)239-5303 Founded November 3, 1966 ... ' ' ­
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe commumty. 

............~..------------~--~~~---~----~----~~------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------·-------­
The Observer Thursday, March 24, 1983 --page 8 

continuedfrom page 1 
States Constitution as an expression ofgoals which "splendidly meets the challenge" of promoting ideals which are not Utopian. 
An ideal is needed; Wtiss said, be· cause all groups have a natural ten­dt:!:~y toward selfish biases. These groups, such as states, religious com­munities, and families, are formed because humans must "act together to meet desires and needs," he said. 
Need and desire, according to Weiss, are two points which set humans apart from other animals. The other points are mind and will. Each of these flows from our nature as private beings who possess sen­sitivity and sensibility. 
In addition to setting humans apart from animals, Weiss believes, the possession of a mind sets humans apart from computers and machines. He stressed, "computers do not make private minds unneces­

~ .. --.... 
sary. Computers are no more a part of liberal education than breathing exercises." 
THE OBSERVER/SCOTT BOWER 
Weiss made the paradoxical point

Sophomorejulie Pierson tutors Tyrone Thorpe borhood Study Help Program. 
that the strength of the human mind

at the Lasalle Filmore Center as part ofthe Neigh-
springs from the fact that its ac­

11•••••••••••••••-••••••mm.:lliiiD!I!lliii!!B!Iiii!BIIIl!lllll••g:iil!i!l!lmZ!il!iiBl!BBit!iii5M~ii2111El~ilm:l3mlEB~I ­
ThisDeskCan Reach Mach 2. 
Some desk jobs are making authority. 
more exciting than In the air, and on the 
others. ground, you have 
As a Navy pilot management responsi­or flight officer, your bility from the begin­desk can be a sophis­ning. And your ticated combination responsibility grows of supersonic jet air­as you gain experience. 
craft and advanced electronic equipment. But you can handle it. Because Navy flight training gives you the navigation,

r 
aerodynamics and other technical know-how you need. 
In return, Navy aviation demands something of you as an officer: Leadership. 
Your path to leadership starts with 

I 
officer training that's among the most 
demanding in the military. It's intensive leadership and professional schooling combined with rigorous Navy flight training. And it's all geared to prepare 

ll 
you and other college 

r-;;.v7o;;o;;~'I~----w7.6l
graduates for the 

IN?ORMATION CENTER 
I

unique challenge of P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 
Navy aviation. The 0 Please send me more information about becom· I ing a member of the Naval Aviation Tham. (0A) I
program is tough but 

Nam•--~----~~~~----~~---­
First (Please Print I Last Addre••-------------Apt. !;_____ 
rewarding. I 
One important 

City________State____ZiP-----­
reward for Navy I
I Age____tCollege/University_________officers is decision-I
:t:Year in College +GPA 
I I
•Major/Minor·-----------------------­
1 Phone Number.,.---;;-.,....,.------..,--=----,...,---I 
I 
IArea Code! Best Time to Call This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to 
I 

furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi·
L:::s:::h.::::·:: ______ J 
.. 

.. . . NavyOfficers
·, 





Get ResponsibilityFast. 
No company can give you this kind of leadership responsibility this fast. And nothing beats the sheer excitement of Navy flying. 
The salary i~ exciting, too. Right away, you'll earn about $18,000 a year. That's better than the average corpora­tion will pay you just outofcollege. And with regular Navy promotions and other pay increases, your annual salary will soar to $30,400 after four years. That's on top of a full package of benefits and privileges. 
Before you settle down to an earth­
bound desk job, reach for the sky. Reach for the coupon. Find out what it takes to be part of the Naval Aviation Tham. You could have a desk that flies at twice the speed of sound. 
• • . Weiss 
tivities are flawed. This enables it to 
"move on into new areas." The mind 
enables humans t<_:! make 
"reflections.. !~.~erences, and judge­
mt.:filS on where and how to act." 
In introducing Weiss, Father 
Theodore Hesburgh, University 
president, said he is "unhappy with 
the current state of philosophy in 

the university and in the world as a whole." Weiss' lecture is the first ofa series Hesburgh hopes to hold to promote his concern over modern and holistic liberal education. 
Hesburgh noted that Weiss is a "perennial philosopher" who pos­sesses "stability and permanence." He has taught philosophy for 54 years at only three institutions. Those institutions are Bryn Mawr, Yale, and Catholic University. He received both his M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard in the two years following his graduation from New York City College in 1927. 
Weiss founded and served as president of many philosophical or­ganizations, including the Metaphys· ical Society of America and the Philosophical Society for the Study ofSport. He is the authorof24 books and the founder of The Review of Metaphysics. 
The third and final sgment of Weiss' series, "The Luring Night," will be presented at 3:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Memorial Library Lounge. The lecture will be preceded at 3 p.m. by chamber music performed by Professor Linda Ferguson on the harpsichord and sophomore Kathleen Erickson on the violin. 
• • • Speech 
continuedfrom page 1 
to achieve our ultimate goal of 
eliminating the threat posed by 
strategic nuclear missiles. 
"This could pave the way for arms 
control measures to eliminate the 
weapons themselves," he said. 
"We seek neither military super­
iority nor political advantage," 
Reagan added. "Our only purpose ­
one all people share -is to search 
for ways to reduce the danger of 
nuclear war." 
Reagan noted the current policy 
of deterrence through the threat of 
retaliation. "But what if free people 
could live secure in the knowledge 
that their security did not rest upon 
the threat of instant U.S. retaliation 
to deter a Soviet attack; that we 
could intercept and destroy 
strategic ballistic missiles before 
they reached our own soil or that of 
our allies?" 
He said that desite the difficulties, 
"is it not worth every investment 
necessary to free the world from the 
threat ofnuclear war? we know it is." 
The president said the United 
States would continue to pursue 
nuclear arms reductions, 
"negotiating from a position of 
strength that can be ensured only by 
modernizing our strategic forces." 
At the sametime, he said, the 
United States "must take steps to 
reduce the risk of a conventional 
military conflict escalating to 
nuclear war by improving our non· 
nuclear capabilities." 
Reagan said he recognized that defensive systems "have limitations and raise certain problems and am­biguities. If paired with offensive systems, they can be viewed as fostering an aggressive policy, and no one w.. ts that. 
\ 
"But with test considerations firmly in mind," he added, "I call upon the scientific community who gave us nuclear weapons to turn their great talents to the cause of mankind and world peace; to give us the means of rendering these nuclear weapons impotent and ob· solete." 


Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 9 
CINNAmON isn't only skin,deep 
F
or pure escapis~, nothing ca,n 
the series. jusi: as John Updike has ing interesting characters is Mac­
beat a good book. Sure you can done with his Rabbit character, so Donald's strong point. Cinnamon spend thousands to travel to exotic MacDonald has done with McGee. Skin is no different. The reader places and riskweird diseases, spend The latest novel in the series is meets real-estate brokers, con-men, hundreds on mind altering drugs, or Cinnamon Skin. In many respects it farmers, that spring to life off the
• 
seek some other diversion, but is the best. Like all the others, it page far more than the barons, nowhere can you find the diversity combines some reference to color tycoons, and princesses do oflesser ofexperiences and fantasies that can in its title and is written in the first fantasy junk. 
be purchased in book form for a few person from McGee's perspective. 
The plot ofCinnamon Skin
dollars. Thus it contains much of McGee's, 
revolves around the death of
One ofthe more successful pur­and probably MacDonald's, 
Meyer's neice. She'd gone on a sen­
veyers ohhese paper pleasures is philosophy on life. On Miami: "You 
suous honeymoon cruise on his
John D. MacDonald. He has can buy anything in the world. Any­
yacht when suddenly it went
authored over sixty books with thing. A bazooka and a case ofan­
BOOM. As the particles settle it
themes ranging from mystery to titank grenades. Russian land mines. 
becomes apparent that perhaps the 
Persian whores. Chinese poisons. All 

new hubby may not have died and 
you needis enough cash." 

may have actually pushed the but­
Ryan 
On life: "It is where I will stay, 

ton. McGee, who thinksofhimselfas
right up to the point where the 

something ofa knight in shining ar­
Neptune Society sprinkles me into 

mour is determined to find the kil­
VerBetkmoes 
the dilute sewage offthe fun coast." 

ler. He and Meyer prowl Texas
And on modem sex: "A leggy 

looking for cement Chinese lan­
sixteen-year-old girl with blond hair 

terns, stumble about the decayed
black at the roots, wearing a quarter 

Mohawk Valley in New York, and
pound ofeye makeup, gave me the 

fmally end up in sunny Mexico, all in 
fixed challenging stare ofthe 

search ofclues. 
seasoned hooker while she ate her 

The plot lines do not end there.
strawberry cone. There's no VD any 

On a deeper level we explore the 
more. Now it is all STD, Sexually 

lives ofthe central characters. We 
Transmitted Diseases, and there are 

see the somewhat old-fashioned 
a lot more ofthem then there used 

McGee dealing with the loss ofhis to be, and a lot more people have 



lover, who has accepted a promo­
them than used to, and some ofthem 

tion and moved away from him. We are resistant to all known an­see Meyer realizing his limitations at tibiotics." 
mid-life and learning to adjust his 
In recent books, McGee has been 

veiwpoints.­
joined in his adventures by a neigh­

MacDonald has not let his charac­bor named Meyer, a retired ters stagnate. Faithful readers ofthe 
economist. Together they meet up 

series will note a certain aging and 
with some very interesting folks 

shifting ofphilosophies on the part
during the course ofa book. Creat­

of McGee and Meyer. In these respectsCinnamon Skin is a tur­ning point for the series. First time McGee readers. may wish to sample some ofthe earlier installments. Not only are they readily available in paperback, but they will make the events in Cinnamon Skin more meaningful. The Empty CopperSea, and The Green Ripper are both ex­cellent novels with which to start. 
As a whole, the Travis McGee series is a true joy. Not only do they provide excellent recreational reading, but they inspire the reader to re-evaluate his or her own values and attitudes. This is what great writing is all about. 
Some foolishness nevet changes 
A
s one flips through Dan Carlinsky's College Humor, dents. the truth ofthat old saying, "the more things Although the contributions from the earlier eras are change, the more they stay the same" becomes ap­interesting and amusing, l especially enjoyed the sec­parent. tions pertaining to the '60s, '70s, and '80s. These sec­
In College Humor, Carlinsky has compiled a wide tions, in particular, feature extensive satirical social variety ofsatirical poems, stories, and articles from commentary, and the reason that I especially enjoyed ninety-five colleges and universities. This almanac of them is that the eventswhichwere beingsatirized have "assorted foolishness" highlights more than one occurred during my lifetime. This is not to say that the hundred years ofcollegiate humor ( 1870-1980), and earlier forms ofsatire are not enjoyable, for they are 
special in their own right; I merely contend that this form ofsocial commentary is much more meaningful if 

Carol 
an individual has lived through the period which is being satirized.

Camp 
Some amusing selections include "King Arthur" (for features selections written by such successful authors all you English majors); "The Book ofPremed" (for AL as F. Scott Fitzgerald, Herman Wouk, andJames Thur­Pre-professionals and my sister atJohns Hopkins); ber. 
"Leave It to Beaver: An Academic View" (in memory of 
The book is divided into eight distinctive eras, 1876-childhood, as well as Lumpy, Eddy, and the rest ofthe 1899; 1900-1919; 1920-1929; 1930-1939; 1940-1949; gang); and the "Letters" war between First Ladies Betty 1950-1959; 1960-1969 and 1970-1980. In each sec­Ford and Nancy Reagan. Read it for yourselfl 
tion, the reader acquires a sense ofhistorical Other highlights deserving special mention are the perspective for the major issues and events ofthe cartoons which fill the book. As a child, cartoons fas­period. In addition, the reader is also able to view the cinated me, and my comic book collection was one of 
the ofhis peers -my most cherished possessions. Ifyou miss Saturday morning cartoons as much as I do, then you'll enjoy the book for its seemingly infinite variety ofillustrations, if for no other reason. 
If political commentary and fond memories ofSatur­day morning cartoons fail to arouse your sense of curiosity, don't despair, for there is a multitude of references to social life and male/female interaction with which all Domers should be able to identify. The "problem" (or should I say, challenge) of male/female interaction is examined in every section, proving once again that some things never change. Just ask Mom and Dad! -better yet, read the book! 
One Good Death Desenes Another, Ritchie Perry, Ballantine Books, New York, 1976, 204 pages, $2.25. 


mindless -but fun 
E
very now and then, it's a good idea to read a book that holds no hope ofbeing a mind-expanding experience. I like to make a regular practice ofthis, and find ample fodder for mindless gazing in the tomes the University rather loosely refers to as textbooks. O.K., I've always wanted to put that in writing; now that it's out ofmy sys­tem ... 
Before break, Ryan VerBerkmoes reviewed acouple ofbooks that he recommended for perusal over the holiday. I didn't go to Florida; have you ever wondered what someone reads when they are stranded in South Bend for a week? Imagine a book that was written with Tom Selleck in mind. Imagine a book that has no more social or intellectual value than powdered eggs. Imagine a book that, even af­ter taking all ofthis into account, is still great fun to read. The book is One GoodDeath DeservesAnother, by Ritchie Perry. 
Joe musumeci 

I wasn't kidding about the Tom Selleck bit. lfthere is ever a screenplay done of this little masterpiece, Tom would be just the guy to ftll the rugged, handsome and overly-egotistical shoes of Philis, the British secret agent who serves as the protagonist ofthe epic. Philis is gorgeous, smart and above all, lucky beyond reasonable belief, all necessary attributes of the stock good-guy secret agent type. 
The plot takes off as a result ofPhilis' previous assignment, during which some evil types rendered the girl he was in love with a mental vegetable. Ofcourse, the firm for which Philis works has had her rejuvenated in inind and soul, but with the result that her memories ofPhilis are hazy and nothing remains ofthe passionate adulation which we are told she once harbored for him. Nonetheless, our hero goes to visit the happy nymph in her homeland ofBrazil. On his way there, someone tries to run him off a cliff in a rental car, but of course, in this business, that sort ofthing is not looked on as uncom­mon. So when Philis arrives at his sweetheart's home and discovers that he is little more than a faded snapshot in the backofher mind, he is already a little upset, but still game. Even when the lady informs him she is engaged to be married, he remains gallant through the stunned haze oftears -gallant enough to offer to take her out to lunch. After all, he has to; if he didn't, there wouldn't be the oppor­tunity for a gunman to drive by in broad daylight and for Lydia, the former flame in question, to catch a bullet obviously meant for him, leaving the hero to nurse a massive guilt complex ofalmost Catholic dimension while plotting the imminent demise ofthose responsible. 
Sound campy? Oh, yeah ... but because we get the whole thing through the eyes ofPhilis, it becomesalmost believeable, as a sort of fish tale told by a private eye. The sarcastic edge author Perry inserts into all ofPhilis' narrative and dialogue is drastically overdone, with the result that we wonder whether he takes this whole ordeal much more seriously than we do. 
He apparently does, because interlaced with all the first person narrative are small vignettes which hint vaguely at the master plot, which hassomething to do with a group ofangry old Nazis who wish to assasinate the Chancellor, because he just sold out the German cause. At any rate, this is all unimportant, which is good, because it usually makes no sense at all. What is important is that the book is fast-paced, good-natured fun with several twists and some fascinat­ing, if mildly exaggerated characterizations. Grab a drink, kick back and pretend the sun's out. This book definitely should not be read withouut the benefit of shades and a suntan. 
j 
The Observer Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 10 


i . 
t 


LITE 

South Bend Ave Store 
l~~ 

OLD 599 PRICES GOOD THRU 
MILWAUKEE SAT., MARCH 26th CASE 
EXCEPT ON SALE

Mix &Match Liquor &Wine Cases 10°/o DISCOUNT 
ITEMS 
LIQUOR KINGS CELLAR VALUE 
VODKA OR GIN 399 499 
75DIIl I.D UTEI 
CANADIAN MIST 1.15 LITER BEAM BLEND 1.75 LITER 
BACAROI RUM 1.15 LITER CALVERT GIN 1.15 LITER EARLY TIMES 1.15 LITER CLAN MacGREGOR 1.75UTER IWAR'S SCOTCH 1.0 LITEI SMIRNOFF VODKA 150 ML. 
JAMESON IRISH WHISKEY 150 ML. 
CAPTAIN MORGAN SPICED RUM 150 ML. 
799 
1.75 UTU 
1 011 
a• 
1 011 
a• 
1 011 
911 1011 411 
711 
411 




KEGS 

PASSOVER WINES 
CARMEL Malla&a. Concord 150 ML. MOGEN DAVID KOSHER WINES ~lackurry, Cmor•150 ML. MANICHEIITZ 
KOSHER WINES C11cen. Malla&a llackHrry, Crea• "ite Camrd 150 ML. 
TEMPLE KOSHER Concord 150 ML. 

BUDWEISER ........... 30.99 
LITE ..................  29.99  
MILLER  ...............  30.49  
GENERIC LITE ..........  22.99  

QUARTS BUDWEISER ............ 8.99 OLD MILWAUKEE........ 7.39 MILLER LITE . , .......... 8.99 
KING CELLAR 1621 South Bend Ave 
CLOSEST LIQUOR STORE TO CAMPUS 
CORDIALS 
BAILEY'S
IRISH CREAM 150 ML. SOUTHERN COMFORT 150 ML. 
HIRAM WALKER 
AMARETTO
Dl SARONNO 150 ML. 
McGUIRE'S 
IRISH CREAM 750 ML. FRANGELICO 500 ML. 

S299 S199 S199 S199 
11n 
5
5
11 11 
1on 
7n 
an 
WINE 
CARLO ROSSI4 LITER 
GALLO
• 
-··· 

PREMIUMS 1.5 LITER 
GALLO VARIETALS 1.5 LITER 
ALMADEN MOUNTAIN TABLE WINES 1.5 LITER 


BLUE NUN 150 ML. 
CANEIJ50 ML. 

SEBASTIAN I MOUNTAIN WINES 1.5 LITER 3" TAYLOR 2F= 
CALIFORNIA CELLARS 1.5 LITER 6 
ANDRE CHAMPAGNES 750 ML. ZONIN 
4n

ASTI SPUMANTE 150 ML. 2FOR
PREMIAT WINES 750 ML. 
4•• 

Sports=J=l=r=i=e;J.;S================T=hu=r=sd=a=y,=M;:ar=c=h=2=4,=1=9s=3==Pa=g=el 1 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 

Bookstore Basketballwill hold its mandatory cap­tains· meeting Monday, March 28, at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. At least one representative of each team must be present. Teams which have not paid the S4 registration fee must bring the money to this meeting. -The Observer 
The Knute Rockne Mass and Breakfast, com­memorating the 52nd anniversary ofthe coach's tragic death, will be held this Sundav. March 27. The Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley, which ~ponsors the event, invites all ND-SMC students, faculty and staff. The Mass will begin at 8:1 5 a.m. in the South Dining Hall. The breakfast will begin at 9: 1 5 a.m. The guest speaker at the breakfast will be Tony Roberts, NO football play-by-play announcer for the Mutual Radio Network. Co-captains Blair Kiel and Stacy 
Toran will attend also. Special guests include members of the Rockne family and former Rockne players. The cost ofthe breakfast is 54.25 for adults and 53.25 for children. For reservations, call the NO Alumni Office (239-6000) or Chris Twist (evenings at 272­0164 ). -The Observer 
The Windsurfing Clubwill hold an organizational meeting this Sunday at 3 pm. Members are asked to meet in front of the Student Activities Office at LaFortune. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced that the cap­tain's meetings for men's softball and Grad softball will be held today. at 4:30. Also weigh-ins for the NVA wrestling tournament will be Monday ofnext week from 4 to 8 p.m. at the NVA office in the ACC. The wrestling tournament will be held March 29 and 30 in the ACC Pit. Entries for Men's Interhall tennis, Women's Interhall tennis, and Grad-faculty tennis close March 30 at 5 pm. Call239-6100 for more information. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Clubhas practice today at 4 p.m. at the Rock. -The Observer 
The Notre Datne baseball teatn was unable 
to play its doubleheader yesterday against St. Joseph's College be­cause of the weather conditions. The next game for Larry Gallo's squad will be Saturday when it travels to Miami ofOhio for a twinbill. 
-The Observer 
Three Southeastern Conference 
powers and a co-Big Ten champion make up the field for the NCAA Mideast Regional women's basketball tournament, scheduled for Friday and Sunday, March 25 and 27, at the ACC. To,P-seeded Tennessee Vols, 24-7, meet Mississippi, 26-5, in a 7:00p.m. game on Friday evening while the Big Ten's Indiana Hoosiers, 19-10, face SEC champ Georgia, 2 5-6, at 9:00. The winners will meet on Sunday after­noon at 12:30 for the regional championship and a berth in the Final Four. The ticket prices are S8 for adults and S4 for students. This is a two-day ticket and is good for all games. If tickets remain for in­dividual games, they will be on sale the day of the game only, priced at S4 and S2. Tickets can be purchased at the ticket office at Gate 10 ofthe ACC. The regional will be shown around the country on cable television. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club is holding its spring regatta this weekend. There will be a meeting for all members today at 6 p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy. If there are any questions, call Lou Paskalis at 6 713. -The Observer 
The Notre Datne Rugby Teatnwill continue 
its spring practices today at 4:15 behind Stepan Center, regardless of 
the weather. For more information, call club president Sean Sullivan 
at 289-1617. -The Observer 
Kirt Bjork, who was recently named to the American Hockey Coaches Association All-America squad, has earned another honor with his selection to the CCHA All-Academic team as an honorable mention. Bjork has also been selected to play in the ACHA Senior All-Star game which is scheduled for March 28 at the Met Center in Bloomington, Minn. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Si2fl.Ups will be held 
today in the LaFortune Ballroom from 5 to 6:30. Team captains need to bring a S3 entry fee, the names ofthe players on the team, and the name of the team. Also, ifthere are any players who will be going to the Senior Formal or taking the EIT's, their names should also be given. Games will begin after Easter. -The Observer 

Inner tube results 
ANTOSTAL '83 INNER TUBE WATER POLO 

Yesterday's Results Punk ins Heros 8, Sgt. Slugo·s Traveling Water L!' •; Lust Bombs I 0, Roman Columns Ill 3 Fallop. Tubes and a Whole Lot ot Whale 9, Pridei"''· Pirahnas 7 
J. Anhur and the Travelling Hosebags Drowne: Crustaceans 3 
Today's Games P~ranhas v. Aqua Ostriches (6:00) Polo Bears v. We're Gomng to Drow Laugh1ng (6 Seven People Who Got Creamed Humuhumunkunukuapuaas (7:00) lktomi's Warnors v. The Third Time, the Second' 'Round (7:30) 
Hockey standings 
In this year's NHL playoff format, the top four tt in each division make the playoffs, regBJdle: overall league standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE: 
Adams Division 
w L T GF GA s . 

y-Boston 47 18 9 303 204 .•.)3 
x-Montreal 39 23 13 331 270 9t 
x-Buffalo 37 27 12 297 265 ,;6 
x-Quebec 31 32 11 315 312 '3 
Hanford 17 51 7 238 380 41 
Patrick Division 

x-Phlladelphia 45 21 8 298 220 
·~ 
...,

x-Wash1ngton 37 22 IS 282 256 
x-New York Islanders 38 25 12 280 215 .; 
x-New York Rangers 32 33 9 288 269 
-3 New Jersey 15 46 13 207 3t0 .3 Pittsburgh 17 50 8 243 373 •2 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlslon 

w L T GF GA Pta y-Edmonton 44 21 It 398 303 99 Calgary 29 33 12 297 294 70 Vancouver 29 34 12 282 289 70 Winn1peg 30 37 8 283 312 68 Los Angeles 26 36 11 280 319 63 
Norris Division 

x-Ch1cago 44 21 9 310 253 ·7 
x-M1nnesota 39 20 16 304 263 .4 
St. Louis 24 36 IS 265 290 '3 
Toronto 24 38 12 272 309 ·O 
Detro1t 20 40 15 245 312 >5 
x-chnched playoff spot 
y-chnched diVISIOn t1tle ; ...
:. 

Yesterday's Resulll Buffalo 8, Hanford 3 New York Rangers 7, DetrOit 1 Vancouver 1, Washington 1, tie Toronto 6. M1nnesota 3 W1nn1peg 7, Edmonton 4 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·­
Classified office hours: Notre Dame -s 
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Saint Mary's-noon to 3 p.m Deadline for next-day service is 3 p.m. All ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. We reserve the right to edit objectionable 
material.







Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING 
Jack1e Boggs 
664-8793 
Save on natural vttamms Free catalog. H1ll House, SUite 427,495 Old York Road. Jenk~ntown. PA 19046 
TYPING AVAILABLE, 287-4082. 
TYPING IN MY HOME (resumes. letters. reports, term papers, etc.). NEAT, AC· CURATE WORK. REASONABLE RATES 233-7009. 
Typmg ALL KINDS 277-8534 aHer 6pm 
Expenenced TypiSt, Mrs. Bedford. 288­2107. Hours Mon. thru Fri. 8 am to 5 pm. 
Be a Cenified Horse·s A--. Beautiful Wall Ceniflcate and Wallet Card, Only $3.00, Postpaid. DAD's,Box 822S, Centralia. ll­hnols62801 
SHEILA WHALEN AND PAULA BAL­LANTINE McCANDLESS HALL GOV'T VOTETHURS 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. VERY REASONABLE RATES. 287·5t62. 

LOST/FOUND 

LOST A Khak1 overcoat w1th plaid hmng. Ifs a London Fog from Brooks Brothers. Please caiiBI S2•f found Reward thanks. 
Lost· To the young lad1es who are holdmg my LAUNDRY CARD hostage· I need my laundry. PLEASE RETURN. NICK x8232. 
LOST CANON AE·I CAMERA BEFORE BREAK. WILL PAY REWARD, NO QUESTIONS ASKED CALL 283-1388 ASKFORAL 
LOST: ON SUNDAY, MARCH 20, SOME­need Italian Book Prego Urgent ph.3204 
WHERE BETWEEN HOME AND HERE : SPRING!!' IF FOUND. PLEASE Need Riders: Roch. Syr, Utica, NY for RETURN IMMEDIATELY!! REWARD: 
Easter Leav Tues. aft.(3-29) XPaul6981 WARM DAYS, SUNSHINE, SMILES!!! 
NEED RIDE to Maryland or D. C. area for Easter break. Will share driving & $$­please call Michele, 3793. 
Ride needed to ANN ARBOR 3/31 Jeff
FOR RENT 

6756 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN NEW JER­SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277-SEY OR AREA FOR EASTER. CAN 3604 LEAVE TUES. AFTERNOON OR LATER. RETURN MONDAY. 4/4. Student Rental. 5-bedroom home. $420 PLEASE CALL JANET AT 4571 mo. 233-6779. NEEDEO: RIDE/RIDERS TO PHILL Y 902 N. NOTRE DAME -4 BEDROOMS. OR WILMINGTON AREA FOR EASTER FULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE, BREAK. CALL MARK x6802 GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON HEAT, $335/MONTH 684-0933 (LOCAL Need nde to Syr.. Utica. Schenectady or CALL) Albany, NY for Easter. Can leave noon Wed (3-30) Call Kath1 5409 SMC 
SODOM & GOMMORAH FOR RENT!! CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CHEAP. CALL Need nde to Chicago. Friday. 4-25. Will JOHN at 239-6244 OR 283-8657. pay as usual. Caii4292(SMC) 

USED, OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS 
FOR DEPAUL GAME. 1684 or 1266/7. BOUGHT. SOLD, SEARCHED. ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E. WAYNE. RIDE NEEDEO TO CLEV 3/25 SEAN ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY· 
233-6031 NEED RIDE TO CHGO AREA THIS FRI JEFFERSON INTERSECTION. 
FOR SALE. 1980 .. Yamahopper.. MC. BURG AREA LEAVING THIS FRIDAY­Low m1leage, Excellent COnd111on-$300 MARCH 25 CALL MIKE AT 8947. 
NEED RIDE TO PHILLY OR HARRIS­Please call Dan at x6824 
NEED RIDE TO/FROM CLEV AREA tor sale 1bm seletnc typewnter trilingual FOR EASTER CALL PAM 8851 ball excellent cond1tin about$ 290 call dr. pa1va 239-7796 or 2880994 Need R1de to Syracuse/Binghamton NY area for Easter 3516 SMALL REFRIGERATOR. GOOD CON­DITION, PERFECT FOR DORM ROOM Need nde to JERSEY for Easter Call Pat 
$80/BEST OFF.-CALL I 079 att068 
NEEDED Ride/Riders to Boston over Easter. Leav1ng 3·30. Call Tom x6802 
PERSONALS 
NEED RIDE TO NYC OR L1 AREA FOR EASTER BREAK. Can leave any t1me 
NEED TO LOSE WEIGHT? CALL JANET Wed the 30. Call CHRIS 3069 
283-6808 for ..how to.. info! 
HEY SMC JUNIORS! GET INVOLVED AND SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW TO BE A SENIOR CLASS COMMISSIONER! SIGN·UPS IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES MARCH 22-25. IF ANY QUESTIONS CALL MURPH (5151) OR DENISE (5173). 
BostonI R1de needed this weekend to Boston or Spnngfteld area. Call Colleen at 283­8641 
Beth Happy 21st remember all thmgs come to those who w811. but they come faster to those who don't! ED 
Future Augusta Residents: Vote Thurs. for RYNASKI and WEBER .Pres. and V1ce-Pres. 
I need a nde to Philly-Trenton,N.J. area for Easter. Can leave Wed. afternoon. Call Maureen at 4320. 
JUSTICE IN A NUCLEAR FUTURE? Conference--Interested students may apply at the Center for Soc1al Concerns (239-7869) before Thursday, March 24 at 
5:00 pm. 50 students from Notre Dame will be accepted on a first come first serve basis. $5.00 registration fee. 
STUDENTS Willing to host visitmg stu­dents attend1ng student conference over­mght Fnday. March 25. please contact Center for Soc1al Concerns (239-7869). V1sitors w1ll be bnnging sleep1ng bags. 
Need nders to North Carolina area tor easter break. Prefer to leave Wed. 3/30. Call BRIAN at 3251 or 3252. 
For a fantastiC year 1n McCANDLESS 
HALL, vote SHEILA WHALEN AND PAULA BALLANTINE elect1ons Thursday 
To future Holy Cross Res1dents: For a Sw1nging Dorm, vote Cathy Mcisaac & El­len Byrne President & Vice-Pres1dent 
I need a nde to Boston for Easter break. W111ing to share costs, drivmg, and food. Call Jeb at B64 t. Thanks. 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
APEX ROCKS THE CHAUTAUQUA LAFORTUNE BALLROOM FRI NITE FROM 9:30 TIL I :30 
Need nde to DELAWA13E for break. Can leave Wed. Will share the usual. Call Ed at 8639. 
WILBER. SAW YOU IN FLORIDA AND WE'RE ACHING FOR A SECOND PEEK. HOW ABOUT A REPEAT SHOW AT CORBYS THIS WEEKEND/?????? 
Try HERTZ for ALL your rental needs. In lnd1ana. dial 1-800-NAMO. Elsewhere, see our fnendly rep. at any bus stop' 
SENIORS!I!!I DON'T MISS THE SENIOR COCTAIL DANCE THIS FRI. MARCH 25!!!!!!! 
SENIORS!!!!! DON'T MISS THE SENIOR COCKTAIL DANCE THIS FRI. MARCH 25!!! 
SENIOR COCKTAIL DANCE THIS FRIDAY, MARCH 25--DON'T MISS IT!!!I!! 
PHIL BRIGHAM ... CALL ME (443.6 TIMES) 
YVONNE. A PICTURE IS WORTH A CASE OF BEER..AT LEAST 
Need ride to Blacksburg, VA or nearby for Easter. Can t leave 3/30. Call Heaher at 8151. 
ATTN GIRLS YOU KNOW HIM. YOU LOVE HIM. YOU 'CAN'T PARTY WITHOUT HIM . COME BY AND WISH GREG NIKLAS A HAPPY BELATED B'DAY IN 118 CAVANAUGH ANY TIME THIS WEEKEND' 
Fnends of G. KOURY & S. McBRIDE It iS lime to 
CELEBRATE!! Senior Bar, Tonight, 10:30 Dear Pat R.. 
I've got to boog1e w1th you I Meet me' · the MarnoH tor tankards and fu Thursday mght. Be there!!! 
Your Secret Adm1~ · · 
EXTRA! EXTRA! VOTE LAUREN BAUMANN-PRES. At-<. GALLAGHER-V P FOR LEMANS HI' 
LEMANSNEWS Vote Lauren Baumann(pres.) and Anne Gallagher(v.p.) 
Regg1e. James. Brian: Thanks for a 
week! We'll never forget Donald Fr 
the Uh-Oh squad. or the Happy No• 
Keep in touch. Love, Mo~ra and Je 
Dear Room 201 Lauderdale Biltmore 
Thanks for the St. Pauli's but v. Goebel's g~rls. We'll all have to get to! er and play Euker while danc1ng or beds. listen1ng to Cate·s box, bUI holes in the TV set. and eating Frc Flakes w1th o·s Todd and The Social terfly at the Poop Deck Lounge 
Lower Deck Disco). 
Room 204 Lauderdale B1lll' 
ATTENTION TO ALL 
Are you a Bnlhant. Bus1ness M1ndeci 
son? Does the thought of bemg 1n om 
fmanc1al control of two. count em, 
big professional type RADIO STAT· 
excite you? Well, if you answered y 
any of these questions then yo' 
mvrted to apply for the posrt1on of 
ness Manager of the WSND statior · 
terv1ews are TONITE so call 
Testerman at 8291 or Chris Brer·· 
I 581 1mmed1ately and set up an ap· 
men!. Oh and by the way th1s is a 
posrtion. 
Bubbles, Don't be shppin· 1nto that love tub miQhl be catching some herpes li> 
btg dog. 
----··· 
What's up, champ? 
I 
, I 
.... 
"­

~--------------------------------~~~~------~-------~---­
The Observer Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 12 
NCAA tourney resumes 
IU, UK begin Mideast showdown 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP)-Fifth­
ranked Indiana tangles with No. 12 
Kentucky, and No. 2 Louisville takes 
on ninth-ranked Arkansas tonight in 
the semifinals of the NCAA Mideast 
Regional basketball tournament. 
The regional is loaded with three 
conference champions and features 
three ofthe four coaches still in con­
tention who have notched a national 
championship. 
Big Ten champion Indiana, 24-5, is seeking its fifth national crown and its third under Coach Bobby Knight. 
Kentucky, 22-7, claimed one ofits five national titles under current Coach joe B. Hall. The Wildcats captured their 34th Southeastern Conference crown this year. 
Louisville, 30-3, is the top seed in the region and hopes to hand Coach Denny Crum his second national crown in four years. The Cardinals were unbeaten in the Metro Con­ference during the regular season and in its postseason tournament. 
Kentucky and Indiana, who have split two previous NCAA meetings, open the action at the Stokley Ath­letics Center at 7:10p.m. EST. 
to do the same to Iowa tomorrow. ' 
... 
_... 
Movin'out? 
RENT A 

RYDER TRUCK 
If you're 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way {rent-it-here.leave-it-there) trip to another City 
Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end of the semester. With a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or two other people and their things. so you can share the costs Compare that to a plane ticket. Or even a bus. 
Rent from the best-maintained. most dependable fleet in I R '1 , _,.

Any oneway or local rental card rate with thisCOUPON! . 
Offer good through June 30, 1983 at 2715 N Bendix Drive, South Bend. 
RYDERTRUCKRENTAL 
2715N. BENDIX· DR South Bend 

Arkansas, 26-3, the Southwestern 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4 -7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
.y 
-J ' 
~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
Conference runnerup, twice has eliminated Louisville in the NCAA Tournament, the year before and the year after the Cardinals' 1980 cham­pionship season, winning the 1981 game 74-73 on U.S. Reed's 49-foot shot at the buzzer. 
The two winners will collide at 
12:45 p.m. Saturday to determine the Mideast representative in the Final Four at Albuquerque on April 2. 
If both Kentucky and Louisville win tonight night, it would set up the first collision between those two perennial powers snce 1959, al­though the schools are located only 80 miles apart. 
Lancaster Gordon, Louisville's second leading scorer with a 13.1 average, said the Cards aren't think­ing about any team except Arkansas. 
"If we don't win tomorrow, 
there's no matchup at all," Gordon 
said yesterday. 
"You start thinking about too many teams, it can distract you," said Rodney McCray, who forms an imposing front line for Louisville with his brother Scooterand Charles jones. 
Indiana beat Kentucky 62-59 at Bloomington in December, but the 
'MOVES' ·····A CONCERT 
8 pm, Saturday, March 26 2:30pm, Sunday, March 27 
Hoosiers no longer have second­leading scorer Ted Kitchel ( 17.3 ), who underwent back surgery on Feb. 24. 
Kentucky has several players on the injured list, but each is expected to play -Derrick Hord (ankle), Dicky Beal (knee), and freshman Kenny Walker (back). 
"I really like the attitude of my team right now," said Hall, who saw his Wildcats snap a three-game NCAA losing streak with a 57-40 vic­tory over Ohio University in the second round last week. "They have a new look in their eye. They're anxious to play." 
Kentucky's top threat is 6-foot-11 Melvin Turpin, who averaged 15 points a game. 
Indiana has reeled off four vic­tories in a row behind the improved play of 7-foot-2 German Uwe Blab 
(9.2 average) and Randy Wittman, the Big Ten's Player ofthe Year. Wit­tman, an excellent outside shooter, averaged 19 points a game. 
"I don't think the earlier game has much bearing whatsoever," said Knight. 
~--~-~--~ -~ -~--------­
The Observer Thursday, March 24, 1983-page 13 
• • . Hockey 
Dame scholars, many factors were came out it was appealing to be able
continued/rom page 16 
taken into consideration, but the to play somewhere else." security he has found at Notre Dame Smith went on to cite the impor­The question mark on the team is 
is keeping him here. tance of academics and the overall 
freshman Mickey Kappele. The "I didn't know if I'd be as happy Notre Dame atmosphere as things goalie has narrowed his choices anywhere else as I am here," this that ultimately kept the players at down to either Yale or Illinos­year's Rookie ofthe Year said. "It had Notre Dame. Chicago as he waits to hear from a lot to do with the people here and "We have tried over the years to each ofthem. the friends I've made. Plus, I really recruit kids that believe in educa­
love this place." tion first and athletics second in the Coach Lefty Smith is not really tradition of this university," he said.
''I'm just waiting to see who will ' surprised with the way things have "There is also a holding element in­give me th~ best offer," he said. "I · turned out, but can understand why volved. The closeness the kids havewant to play competitive hockey. I a player would want to leave. found within their dorms, with theirjust don't want to give it up yet, but I "To be a hockey player means that teammates, and with the facultydon't know for sure what I'll be you have to start at age four or five creates the type of atmosphere that
domi"' ~ 
and work diligently at stick handling epitomizes that tradition. It's why so and skating," Smith said_ "It takes a many ofthem will be back here nextIt is the remaining 21 players that tremendous amount of dedication. year and not at some other Division I are of interest. Some of them had at­
Naturally when the decision first school." 
Good friends will be there 
come hell orhighwate& 

tractive offers and bright collegiate careers that they sacrificed. 
Sophomore Brent Chapman, who 
ended the season as the team's 
second-leading scorer behind All­
American Kirt Bjork, was being 
recruited by Bowling Green, Wis-. 
consin, and Providence before 
evaluating the situ~tion and 
recognizing Notre Dame as his best 
option. 
"First of all, I chose Notre Dame for the school, not just for hockey," said Chapman. "I don't want to play pro hockey. I figured I was going to have to quit in two years anyway, so the decision was just moved up a few years." 
Chapman is able to see some potential advantages in playing for the club team. 
"It's a chance to see some other places besides the same CCHA schools," he said. "There'll be a lot less pressure which will make it easier for school work." Freshman Mark Benning, who had offers from schools such as Princeton and Yale, agrees with Chapman's optimistic outlook. 
"It (playing for the club) will be a 
big adjustment,"he said. "But, I hope 
it will give me time to get more in­
volved in school. I'll be abl t e to be 
more a part ofthis school than just a 
hockey player." 
For Benning, one of 200 Notre 
• • . Men 
continued/rom page 16 
wards if the team wants to place 
highly. 
Dejong will represent Notre 
Dame in the foil eventfor the second· 
consecutive year afte_r__finishing in 
13th place last year. The native of 
South Africa led the foil squad this 
year with a record of 42-10, putting 
him 16th on the all-time Notre 
Dame victory list with 107 wins in 
134 matches. 
Harstrom, who will be the team representative in the epee event, is another foreigner who has brought his talents to Indiana The native of Gothenburg, Sweden boasts a 40-6 personal record this year. This will be his first appearance in the NCAA Championship. 
Rounding out the field for the 
Irish will be Edwards, who fmished 
the season with a 41-9 ledger. The 
freshman from St. Louis is also 
making his first NCAA appearance. 
Nevertheless, he is optimistic about 
his chances against the best sabre 
men in the country. 
"My goal is to make the top six, although it's hard to say how things will end up," says Edwards. "I suppose I've got as good a chance as anybody." 
Providingthe bulk ofthe competi­tion for the Irish this weekend will be archrival Wayne State, the Uni­versity of Pennsylvania, and Colum­bia University. 


---~----------~-~-------------~-­
r 
., je Observer Thursday, March 24, 1983 -page 14 
-----------------------------, 
Back by popular demand!! 
Citizen Kane 
COTH presents three showings 
Thursday, March 24 at 5:15, 7:30, & 9:45 Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum of Art · Notre Dame Admission $2.00 
L ~---------------------------­

Lack of desire did in Irish 
If the Notre Dame basketball team really didn't want 
to play in the National Invitation Tournaent, why 
didn't it just say so? 
It wasn't as ifnobody else wanted to go. Loyola coach 
Gene Sullivan was incensed that his Ramblers were 
overlooked after winning the Midwestern City Con­
ference regular season and losing the tournament 
championship game to Xavier. In fact, Sullivan was so 
outraged that he threatened to quit. That will teach 'em, 
Gene. Hit them where it really hurts. 
IfSullivan was ready to give up his job when Loyola was left out in the cold, hopefully somebody had the good sense to keep sharp objects out of Dayton coach Mickey Donoher's reach. 
His Flyers, who ended their regular season by thump­ing DePaul, were considered a long shot to receive an NCAA bid. Little did they know at the time, but the Flyers' victory over DePaul ended their season. 
The point is, not everybody shared the Irish attitude that the NIT was beneath them. 
On St. Patrick's Day, of all days, Notre Dame was leading Northwestern, ofall teams, 32-28 at half-time of its frrst-round NIT game. Apparently, the Irish figured all they needed to do in the second half was put five pia t yers on the floor at the same time. 
Unfortunately, it seems that only Notre Dame players believe in the so-called Notre Dame mystique. Northwestern sure as the devil d1dn't. Either that, or somebody forgot to tell the Wildcats that they were supposed to roll over and play dead at the mere sight of hallowed Notre Dame. 
It's tough to figure how a fairly good young Irish team -one that thought it belonged in the NCAA tourna­ment -could have taken so lightly a Northwestern 
Craig Chval 
Sports Writer 
team that had defeated Illinois, Purdue, Ohio State, and Minnesota. Notre Dame losses to Fordham and David­son should have cured any mistaken notions of invin­cibility. 
That's exactly what happened on Saint Patrick's Day, though. Notre Dame wasn't upset by a team that shot the lights out, and the Irish actually committed fewer turnovers. But in the second half, while Northwestern was outscoring Nore Dame by 18 points, the Wildcats outrebounded the Irish by 16. 
The only way a team like Northwestern can dramati­
cally outrebound a taller opponent is desire -an 
abundace ofit on one hand and an embarassing lack ofit 
on the other. 
There's no explaining away a statistic like that. 
Fortunately, Digger Phelps didn't try. As usual, Phelps was classy in defeat, refusing to blame a pathetic perfor­mance on anything outside influence. 
The silver lining to Notre Dame's dashed NCAA hopes was to be the additional tournament experience the young Irish players would receive in the less­prestigious NIT field. Instead, Notre Dame came home with nothing in its mouth but a sour taste. 
But, if the Irish, with Phelps reminding them every step of the way, can keep that sour taste fresh in their minds, maybe. just maybe they'll he better for it when they play Northwestern next December and in the NCAA tournament next March. 
a CHANCE to DANCE 
FEA TURI.NG 
1\ 
intheCHAUTAUQUA ~ -... LaFortune Ballroom 
Friday March 25 9:30·1:30 
· 
ND/SMC~·r •equi•ed/ 
~------------------------~
L----------------------------J 

The liT Advantages 
·~anagement Education for Technological Change 
Fffi Computer based management education for the lill Financial, Producing and Service Industries. 
Fffi A full-t•me faculty of professional educators lill experienced in real world applications. 
Ffn Unique MBA specializations in Information lill Resources Management and Industrial Management. 
Ffnl MBA specializations in Finance. Marketing, lill Accounting and Human Resources Management. 
Fffi Downtown at 77 South Wacker and Main Campus lill at 31 st and State. Part-time and full-time admissions. 
• • -Illinois Institute of Technology Dr. Nathan Keith, Assistant Dean liT School of Business Administration 10 West 31 Street, Chicago, IL 60616 312/567-5104
Ill 
liT an equal opportumty educator 
1• Please send more information on liT's MBA program to:
r-----------------------------·-------------, 
Name__________;______ 
Street _____________________ 
City·--------------State•-------­
Zip Dayt>me Phone___ • 2l
----------------------Iff!'""..~·..>:".:;~--------------­
Summer Special Rates 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS •APPROX 2Y2 MILES NORTHUS31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U.S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training programs offering early mana­gerial and technical responsibilities m one of the following areas: 
Systems Inventory Management, Acquisition Con· tracting, Computer Systems, Financial manage· ment. Starting salary of $17,000, rapid advance­ment plus Benefits. 'BA/BS degree required or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred, U.S. citizenship, age limit 30. 
CALL TOLL FREE 1·800-382·9782. Or talk to a Navy representative who will be on campus Apr. 12 & 13._ 
• • • Steve 
The NCAA's capped offa very suc­cessful outdoor season for Dziabis. His list ofachievements include set­ting one school record ( 500 meters), matching another school record (quarter mile), and one meet record (quarter mile in State Cham­pionships meet). 
The track season is not quite over for the All-American, however. The outdoor season is about to start and Dziabis is expected to play a large part in his team's success. 
Like a true co-captain, though, he is still thinking in terms of the team and is very optimistic about the Irish prospects for the upcoming season. 
"I think we'll do well," t he predicts. "I wouldn't be surprised if we had five or six go to nationals." 
Maybe one of them might follow his co-captain's example and become an All-American himself. 
Tripucka leads Detroit over Pacers 
INDIANAPOI.JS -Kelly Tripucka 
pumped in 3M points as the Detroit 
Pistons swept ovt·r the Indiana 
Pacers I09-96 in a National Basket­
ball Association contest last night. 
Tripucka's outburst gave him a to­
tal of 190 points in Detroit's six 
games this sea~on against the Pacers 
-an average ofnearly 32 points per game. 
Tripucka had I 3 points in each of the first two quarters. He hit on I 0 of 12 field goal attempts and six of eight from the foul line. as Detroit went into a ')8·46 halftime lead by outscoring the Pacers 30-18 in the second quarter. 
After each team scored 24 points in the third period, the Pacers cut the gap to 9H-86 on two baskets each by Clark Kellogg and Herb Williams. Tripucka scored six more points and Bill Laimbeer made two baskets in the closing drive. 
Isiah Thomas finished with 18 points and Vinnie johnson and Terry Tyler each with 14 for Detroit, while Laimbeer pulled down a game-high 15 rebounds. 
continuedfrom page 16 
enjoy being around him. You can't say that about all athletes." 
As a team leader, Dziabis isn't a "holler guy." He's a quiet type of leader. 
"He leads by example," says Piane. "He's national class, an All-American runner." 
But Dziabis doesn't take all the credit for what he has done. He feels that somebody upstairs helped out his performance. 
"There are points when you're not sure ofyourself," he says, "and I thought that something that really helped me was my religious belief When you lose confidence in your selfand have nothing to fall back on, you can fall apart. I just felt like God was really with me through the 
whole weekend." 
L_ 
~~[==========================~=========== 
T0 dax=============l\=,h=u=rs=d=ay='=M=ar=c=h=2=4=,=19=s=3==P=a=ge=ts 
I iHQI.X,fff -mAT~ Pliet.IG 5HOUU' B€ PIJ./Ar.£ lHAT ROCK 0R.OOPS ARE PVTITN6 ::tlet.IM­
IN!\!.. ME-5~5 Of SATP.NISM INTOIH£1R RECORDIN&S. 
111£Y CAN ~ IURI7 If IH€­~ RWJRP 15 
•3:30  p.m.  Lecture,  "Perspective  on  the  
Federal  Budget,"  Charles  A. Bowsher,  library  
Auditorium  

Bloom County 



'w'H0'5 Hff<f( 
• 

The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

YES.' UXJK!. Ht:R£'S 
AIRAN~IPT I 
NQl MAY'€ M'l!iti.f FR~iH£ NEW\ Cf.86lf. BOON£ 

Photius 
WHAf T.V.? 
WAITING-FDR. THE 
Berke Breathed 

Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Art Lecture, Dennis Luzak, Annenberg Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Maritain, Bernanos, and Green on the Problem of Evil and Suffering," Prof. Bernard E. Doering, library Lounge 

•5 
p.m. -Mass, Commemorating the third an­niversary of the death of Archbishop Romero, Moreau Seminary 

•5:I5, 
7:30 and 9:45p.m. -FUm, "Citizen Kane," i\nnenberg Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -AIESEC Meeting, LaFortune, little Theatre 

•7 
and 9 p.m.-FUm, "Pantagonia in Rebellion," Social Concerns Building Auditorium 

•7, 
9 and II p.m. -FUm, "The Grateful Dead at Radio City Music Hall," Chautauqua Coffeehouse, Sponsored by NDSU 

•7, 
9 and II p.m. -FUm, "The French Connec· tion," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Republicans, SI 

•7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. -FUm, "My Fair Lady," Car· roll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB 

•7:30 
p.m. -Conference, "Introduction: Evolu­tion and Creation," Rev. Ernan McMullin, CCE Auditorium 

•s 
p.m. -Conference, "The Doctrine ofcreatio ex nihilo: Warrant, Scope, Function, and Felicity," David Kelsey, CCE Auditorium 

•8:I5 
p.m. -Graduate C~et Recital, Janet Kitts, Room II 5 Crowley Hall 


T.V. Tol).ight 
-
8p.m.  16  Fame  
22  Magnum, PI  
28  Condo  

34  All Creatures Great and Small  
8:30p.m.  28  Amanda's  
9p.m.  16  Gimme A Break  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Too Close for Comfort  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  Cheers  
28  It Takes Two  
10p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  I Claudius  

The Far Side -~ 

"Just pull it off and apologize, Cromwell ... or we'll go out in the hall and establish this pecking order once and for all!" 

ACROSS 
1 Reykjavik bedtime story 
5 Blip-maker 10 lsleeast of Java 14 Errol of 
the flicks 15 Wear away 16 -patriae 17 Musical 
timepiece 20 African javelins 21 Page numbers 22 Moved smoothly 23 Gambling game 24 Wine judge 
• 
27 Nursery timepiece 31 Mary or 
John 32 Bancwear 33 Press for 
payment 
34 Stadium level 35 Hitched twice 36 Take on 37 Halsey, 
e.g.: abbr. 38 Painter Max 39 Theywent 
thataway 40 Held for 
a time 42 Instruments 43 Cover-up 44 Two 45 Unite, 
ina way 48 Nerd 52 Burgess 
timepiece 54 "1-Got 
Nobody" 55 Strange 56 Coli. org. 57 Adjures 58 Villainous 
looks 59 Small valley 
DOWN 1 Laughton's wife 2 Tunisian officials 3 Oxford chaps 4 Related oldtimer 5 Electrical work 
6 "-on the inarticu· late" 
7 Periods 8 Fruit drink 9 Abashed 10 November box stutter 11 Tome,to 
Gigi 12 Crazy 13 Nettles 18 Flirt 
19 Stoppers 23 Rope material 24 Siberian tribesman 25 Stage whisper 26 Plant supports 27 Pulled a barge 28 Keats, for 
one 29 Anathema 30 Joints 32 Riseup 35 Second 
look 36 Timepiece 
part 38 Destroy 39 Steady 
workman 41 Ousts 42 Papal 
capes 44 Card game 45 Strike· 
breaker 46 Ballet 
step 47 Yearn 48 Cracker 
spread 49 Noun ending 50 Bedouin 
head cord 51 Transaction 53 Word fora 
torero 


nror 
Bar 
Spring Break Rocks on 
at Senior Bar with the Allen Brothers Band · 
J 
I ~--WI-~~-P-!0 _-.. ,-~·'CI::--.~~:~ t•·· .... ~· ~---UI:--,.:-~::--·.......-..t ........ .,. •.::I~ 
• 
--~----------~----~--------·--..-_.--------~.-----~-~ -----------­

Men's tennis team drops third straight
... 
By MARK B.JOHNSON merville of the win as the Irish pair Sports Writer emerged 6-4, 6-7, 6-4 victors. The No. 3 team, comprised of Gibbons In the midst of recovery from a and freshman Doug Pratt, also took tiring but successful spring trip, and their match to three sets and came still fighting jet lag, Coach Tom Fal­through to post a 6-1, 3-6, 6-4 win lon's tennis team was unable to over Stasson and Andy Thome. Again overcome an early 4-2 deficit last finding himself denied victory, night as they dropped only their McMahon, with his senior partner third match in 1 5 this season in a Paul Idzik, could not salvage an Irish heanbreaker to Western Michigan, victory as they were barely topped 
5-4. by Dunkle and Woody 7-6,7-6. 
Missing several chances to take "I think that we should have won advantage of match points, the Irish the match," said Idzik. "But I think fell behind during singles competi­that the loss will enable the team to tion with their only wins coming reevaluate our play. from sophomore Mike Gibbons and "(The loss), I think, will intensify junior Tim Noonan, their No. 2 and our hunger for victory." No. 6 singles players. After a slow That intensity should be an ad­
stan Gibbons came back to down vantage as the Irish travel to Ball Dave Sommerville, 0-6, 6-4, 6-4, State and Indiana University this while Noonan disposed of Bryce weekend to face two teams that last Korowin, 6-1, 6-4. year's 20-9 squad defeated. 
have elected to remain at Notre Dame even 
The Broncos' No. 1 player, Brian Almost halfway into the season, 
though hockey will only bea club sport nextyear.
Harman, proved his wonh as he Fallon's crew has lost only to San 
jane Healey has more details about the situation edged the Irish captain, senior Mark Diego State University, Minnesota at the bottom ofthe page. McMahon, 7-6, 7-5. At No.3 singles, and Western Michigan. It is an im­frosh Joe Nelligan dropped his pressive stan, considering the level _ match to RJ. Dunkle, 6-0,7-6, while ofcompetition encountered in.their Track All-American sophomoresJohn Novatny and Tom 35-match schedule. Pratt found themselves on the shon With 12 victories already behind side oftheir scores in the founh and them, it appears that the Irish are 
Dziabis provides good example 
fifth spots. Novatny took Mike well on their way to their fifth 
Woody to three sets, eventually straight 20-win season. By DEAN SULLIVAN (become an All-American)," he says. he admits. "I decided mostly to losing, 6-2,4-6,7-6, while Pratt went 
Sports Writer "But I felt pretty confident. I did come here because it is pretty closeAlthough optimistic, Fallon hasdown in two sets toJeffStassen, 6-3, the team takirig the season one what I needed to do." to my home (Nonh Manchester is 
7-5. 
The list of Notre Dame All­Dziabis is the first Notre Dame 90 minutes away) and it's a Catholicmatch at a time. 
Down 4-2 after singles competi­
Americans is a long one. Football track All-American since Chuck school. Mostly, though, because of tion, the doubles teams were forced "We are hungry and we want to 
and basketball, of course, supply Aragon was given the same honor the academics." to play under pressure as the do wen, but to really just talk about 
most of the names, but occasionally two years ago. Dziabis has been as successful in Broncos needed only one victory to it doesn't do any good," says 
another sport will contribute a name Ironically, unlike many All­the classroom as he has been on the 
clinch the match. The first team of McMahon, putting the philosophy or two. This year Joe Plane's track Americans whose life is dictated by track. He was recently accepted to Novatny and Noonan took three into perspective. "We have got to go 
team has made its contribution. So their spon, Dziabis' life does not the Indiana University Medical sets, but denied Harmon and Som-out there and play." 
add Steve Dziabis to the list. revolve around the track. Sch,ool and plans on attending there. In the NCAA Indoor Champion­"I didn't even know if I was going Medical school was Dziabis' main ships held in Detroit on March 11 to run when I came to Notre Dame," objective four years ago and he does and 12, the senior from North 
not envision putting it off to com­
Fencers look toward 
Manchester, Ind., took command of pete in future meets. However, he his 600-yard run trial, qualifying for has not ruled out that possibility. the finals with a time of 1:12.12, and "I think Iwill wait until I see how I
a third NCAA title 
then placed sixth in the final to at­do in .the rest of the (outdoor) By MAITJOHNSON The Irish captured their two pre­tain his all-America status. season before I make a decision," "I've been to nationals three other Dziabis says. "I would like to com­
Sports Writer vious national titles back to back as 
times," says Dziabis, "and this time I pete over the summer if I could get ­Head Coach Mike DeCicco led the 
decided I wasn't going to let anyone into some meets."
The Notre Dame men's fencing 1977 and 1978 teams to the Cham­push me around on the track. I was If it hasn't dawned upon you yet,squad will attempt to capture its pionship. 
going to take control from the begin­Steve Dziabis isn't your stereotypi­
third National Championship this Last year, the Irish brought a 20-1 ning. I made things happen instead cal jock. His teammates realized this
weekend when it heads to the Uni­record into the finals and finished ofletting them happen." and voted him team co-captain
versity ofWisconsin-Parkside for the seventh overall in the nation. This The fact that he was up against the (along with Jim Moyar). His coachthree-day national tournament. year the Irish bring a 23-2 record best runners that college track has to also knows it.
The three fencers -the leaders in with them and look to improve on offer did not bother Dziabis at all. "Steve's a good kid, he really is," 
foil, epee, and sabre -who will be the final team standing. "In a way, I was nervous simply says Piane, "He's very sensitive and
representing the team in the cham­It will take a very strong showing because I thought this could be my thoughtful. He's a nice person and I
pionships are senior Marc DeJong, by each DeJong, Harstrom, and Ed-
last chance to do what I've been
junior Ola Harstrom, and freshman 
Steve Dziabis see STEVE, page 14 

\ John Edwards. 
I 
I 
~Staying.. :..
I 
Jeff Badjlich , 
: ·~ ...
j· I 
Marl<BennjnQll 
Tony Bonadio Joe Bowie Brent Chapman Greg Duncan 
I 
\ 
Steve Ely
~ 
MarcGuay· AI Haverkamp Greg Hudas Mike Metzler Tom Parent Adam Parsons Tim Reilly Rob Ricci. Paul Salem Bob.Thebeau John Tiberi
I 
r Tadd Tuo,m.ie
r 
I : Qave Wak:fbitlig 
l I ~ ·c::.to\lo..UJ&o.:+d\nrA 
j_ 
see MEN, page 13 trying to do for several years 
Hockey players make decision about future 
Twenty-on~ icers decide to be 'more a part of ND than just hockey players' 
ByJANE HEALEY after college were the main reasons not to remain at Assistant Sports Editor Notre Dame, but minor factors also differentiated the potential universities. 
Last month, the Notre Dame athletic administration Regan, for instance, had to choose from Providence, reduced the status of the varsity hockey program for­Harvard, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. The Nonh St. Paul cing 26 players to make an imponant decision about native put an emphasis on the fact that he would be their futures: whether to stay at Notre Dame and play close to home. club hockey or transfer to a school where they might ''I'd like to play after college, maybe professionally, continue pursuing a Division I career. maybe in Europe," he said. "I set goals for myself, and I 
Most of the final decisions have been made, and the can't reach them here. I've been away for two years, and outcome is surprising. A remarkable number of 21 now I'll be at home. It's time to go back." players have decided to stay, play club hockey, and ob­Bianchi's options were North Dakota, Minnesota, tain a Notre Dame degree. Only four team members are Duluth, and Providence. After visiting Providence over 
(to Minne~ota) 
leaving for sure while one player is still a question mark. break, he decided that he liked what he saw. 
Sean R~gan
The four exiting players and their destinations are "I knew I was going to leave to play hockey," he said. 
~­
sophomore Sean Regan who will be transferring to Min­"I wanted to go to the best possible school and play the nesota, freshmen Steve Bianchi and John DeVoe, and best possible hockey. The coach at Providence is a dis­
(to Yale . ~ • 
sophomore John Deasey, all three of whom will be ciplinarian who runs a tight ship. That's how you build a 
or lllinois:.chicago?) 
attending Providence. winning program and maintain one." For all these players, the desire to compete at a Divi­[I 
Mickey Kappele 
"!'.....,.._,. ~. '
see HOCKEY, page 13
sion I level and the possibility of a professional career . 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 



