Irish Extra -page 7 

VOL XVIII, NO. 21 tht· intkpendent ~tudent new~papt-r -.t-r,·in~ not rc daml' and ~aint mary·-. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1983 
ND must protect fans from drunks 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The "Thus, even though there was no University of Notre Dame has a du­showing that the University had ty to protect football fans from reason to know of the particular drunks in the stadium parking lot, danger posed by the drunk who in­the Indiana Court of Appeals ruled jured Mrs. Bearman, it had reason yesterday. to know that some people will 
In a 3-0 decision", the appeals become intoxicated and pose a court revived the lawsuit of a general threat to the safety of other Grabill woman who suffered a patrons," the appeals court added. broken right leg when she was "Therefore, Notre Dame is under knocked down by a drunk in the a duty to take reasonable precau­parking lot after the 1979 Notre tions to protect those who attend its Dame-University of South football games from injury caused Carolina game. by the acts of third persons." 
Christenna Bearman sued the It's up to a jury to decide whether University for $201,037 in compen­the precautions taken by Notre satory and punitive damages; her Dame were inadequate and, if so,husband, James, also sought whether that contributed to Mrs.

$50,000 in damages for the loss of Bearman's injury, the court con­his wife's services and companion­cluded.
ship during her recuperation. At the close of all the evidence at 

Glenn Terry, director of Notre the trial, St. Joseph Circuit Judge 
Dame security, said the case did not John W. Montgomery granted 
prompt an increase in securityNotre Dame's motion for judgment 
specifically to handle potentiallywithout letting the case go to the 
drunk drivers. The only recent jury. The appeals court ruled this 
change in security at games was was in error. 
prompted by Notre Dame's In ordering a new trial, the ap­

scheduled night games, where peals court noted that the operator 
darkness increased the need for of a place of public entertainment 
security, Terry said. has a duty to exercise care to pro­tect a patron from injury caused by He declined to describe the third persons. amount of security at a game and "The University is aware that their assignments, explaining that alcoholic beverages are consumed public discussion of security might on the premises before and during help "people who might try to get football games," Judge Robert H. away with criminal acts." Staton wrote for the court. "The Philip Faccenda, general counsel Uqiversity is also aware that to the University, could not be 'trulgate' parties are held in the reached for comment on the case by parking areas around the stadium. The Observer last night. 
ND defies nationwide increase in stress relief 
By BRIAN REILLY The CPSC's list of the most common reasons that students visit them is top­
News Staff 
ped by three symptoms that every stu­
dent experiences. Despite a nationwide increase in stress­"The most common problem is that related problems with students, the new of general depression; lack of motiva­head of the Counseling and tion," says Utz. The Second most com­Psychological Services Center (CPSC) mon reason for visiting the CPSC is at Notre Dame maintains that there has "relationship Problems,"; not getting 
been no increase in students seeking along with roommates or problems with help here. friends or parents. 
In fact, CPSC director Patrick Utz The third most common reason to go said he would like to see more students to the CPSC last year was what Utz calls take advantage of the campus center. "academic management". That is 
Last year, 520 students took advan­"Balancing the social, fun part of the tage of what the CPSC had to offer. University with doing well in school." That is roughly five percent of the stu­Utz also said that Notre Dame students dent population, which is what most face another problem: because they are university psychological counseling so competitive they set high goals for centers average, according to Utz. themselves. But this may lead to pro­
"We would like to see more students blems. Utz says,"Notre Dame students use the service. There is a certain are more verbal, more goal oriented, so negative connotation with seeing a (they are) more likely to be frustrated psychologist," he continued. when their goals aren't met." The 
Utz previously was affiliated with In­CPSC will help students cope with these diana State University Terre Haute's frustrations through personal and group Psychological Services program. He counseling. A student wishing help 
also spent five years on the faculty staff should make an appointment, but any at Indiana University. Utz received a student who comes in on an emergency Ph.D. in counseling psychology from basis will see a counselor as soon as one Notre Dame. is available, or in severe cases a "As a new director, I want to create a counselor will be called out of a session 
positive image" concerning the center. to talk with the student. Already the attempts at creating that Right now, there is no peer counseling image are evident around campus. available, but Utz hopes that in the Advertisements in The Observer and on future there will be a hotline that bulleting boards around campus are ob­students can call and talk to other vious examples. The CPSC will also try students. The CPSC's Counseline ser­
to work through the faculty and vice is available to students wishing to residence hall staff to help the students listen to fcur-to twelve-minute tapes on that need assistance. various subjects. 


Jam Session 
Seniors Jim Bustamante and Scott Major team up for a musical presentation at the Nazz in the 


Chemistry prof advises students: 'Don't drink or don't stop' 
By BRAD COURI chemistry at St. Mary's, ended a next morning which will enable the :News Staff light-hearted and humourous lec­individual to sleep longer. ture on the biochemistry of If the individual also remembers 
"In summary, there are two ways hangovers. to drink a large glass of water to avoid hangovers-don't drink or In a lecture sponsored by the before going to bed, he will help don't stop." With these words, Dr. Notre Dame chapter of the relieve cotton mouth-a symptom Mark Bambenek, professor of American Chemical Society Stu­which results from the stimulation 

dent Affiliates, Bambenek discuss­of the kidney functions by alcohol. ed the effects of alcohol on the Bambenek said the intensity of a body and outlined the ways of hangover can be effected by what reducing the intensity of a type of liquor has been consumed. hangover. All the extra ingredients found in 
Despite the great number of different liquors make the homemade remedies for hangovers, hangover worse. Bambenek stressed the fact that the The purer forms of alcoholic only real cure for a hangover is beverages tend to cause a relatively time. However, he added a few tips weak hangover, Bambenek noted, on how to relieve the painful symp­adding that drinking Russian toms of a hangover. vodka, which is a very pure form of 
He suggested that taking a few alcohol, will result in a milder 
Dr. Mark Bambenek 

aspmn before going to bed will hangover that one produced by reduce the headacht· suffered the brandy or rum. 
Frick won't change fundraising plans 
By JOHN MCGREEVY 
News Staff 
Fundraising efforts at Notre Dame have been so successful in the past that no radical policy changes are being planned, according to James Frick, who was recently appointed special consultant to University President Theodore Hesburgh on public relations and fundraising. 
"The key to the University's successful fundraising is the outstanding leadership of Father Hesbtirgh and the loyalty and commitment of the people who repre­sent this place." 
Frick, former vice-president of public relations, alumni affairs, and development, said he hopes his new role will allow him to "shed some of the day-to­day responsibility and pressure that I have had previously and focus on the things I have both a talent and a disposition for." 
As a key University fundraiser, Frick organized several major fund drives during his 18-year tenure as vice-president. He was the chief architect of the Cam­paign for Notre Dame which ended in 1981. The Campaign collected more than $180 million in con­tributions and gifts. 
see FRICK, page 4 



SMC endowment largest in country 

By JOHN MEN NELL 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's possesses the largest endowment of any Catholic women's college in the country, accor­ding to a recently released 1981-82 survey by the Council for Financial Aid to Education. 
The report lists Saint Mary's endowment as $9.9 million, $4 million more than Resis, the second rank­ed college. The College's endowment currently stands at more than $13 million. 
Jason Linsower, controller and business manager, is not surprised by the findings. "I knew we were strong," he said. "In an era when most schools have had to dip into their endowments, Saint Mary's hasn't had to. 
"Saint Mary's has operated with a favorable surplus each year since 1969. That year the endowment was only $865,000." 
What Lindower says pleases him more than the fin­dings is "the significant progress of the last three years." 
In the survey Saint Mary's also led in contributrions from alumni. Karen Heisler, public information of­ficer, said, "There has never been a vigorous cam­paign to get the alumni to give." 
see SMC, page 3 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­Friday, September 23, 1983--page 2 
The Observer 




In Brief · 
The fate of the controversial addition to Bridget McGuire's Filling Station has been postponed until Oct. 27. Attorneys for Rep. B. Patrick Bauer asked the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) yesterday to reschedule the hearing due to the hospitalization of Bauer. Bauer is being treated for hyperglycemia in Memorial Hospital. The matter will be decided at the next regular meeting of the Board at 3;30 p.m. Oct. 27 in room 1308 of the County-City 
Building, according to Betty Burch, secretary for the BZA. -The Observer 
The Senate, ignoring rleas by its own leaders that it would send the wrong signal to the world at a time of high interna­tional tension, voted 66-23 Thursday nite to drastically chop this nation's contribution to the United Nations by 21 percent in the fiscal year that begins Oct. I, then by another 10 percent in each of the next three years.-AP 
A doctor charged with raping women and ter­
rorizing nine others in the Columbus area was convicted on 60 counts Thursday by a jury that rejected his insanity plea. Dr. Ed­ward Franklin Jackson, Jr., a 39-year-old internist, could face I ,370 years in prison if given the maximum sentence. However, Prosecutor Michael Miller said Jackson still would be eligible for parole in 9 years. An innocent man had served five years in prison for two rapes that prosecutors now blame on Jackson. A five­women, seven-men Coman Pleas Court jury found Jackson guilty of 21 rapes, three attempted rapes, four counts of gross sexual im­position, two counts of kidnapping, 29 aggravated burglaries and one count of possession of criminal tools. -AP 
Of Interest · 
English as a Second Language is a class that 
meets Monday and Wednesday nights at 6 in 117 O'Shag. The class sponsored by the Department for Freshman Writing is free. It was originally announced as being on Tuesday and Thursday nights. ­
The Observer 
A memorial Mass for Michelle Murphy, a Notre Dame student who died in a car accident last January, will be held at 10:30 Sunday night in Farley Hall. Father Don McNeil will celebrate. -The Observer 
.·Weather 
Variable cloudiness touay and very cool with high in mid to upper 50s. Clear tonight and cold with low in mid to upper 30s. Mostly sunny and warmer Saturday with a high in mid to up­


Programmed for excellence 
Excellence. We hear a lot about that at Notre Dame. Father Hesburgh loves to talk about it. So does Gerry Faust, and your parents might have even men­tioned the word while persuading you to attend school here. It might even be said that excellence is a tradi­tion at Notre Dame. 
For the most part, this university does an admirable job of upholding that principle. However, there is one area in which there always has been a lot of room for improvement: the computing facilities on campus, especially, as any engineering student can attest, in the College of Engineering. 
Last summer, the college finally made a move toward improving the facilities here, a move that was loudly cheered by everyone who had ever tried to use the old system. Already, however, complaints are be­ing heard about the new computer. This makes one question the administration's actual commitment to 

excellence and its willingness to provide the assistance necessary to upgrade the Notre Dame computing facilities. 
The last engineering computer was donated by the Burroughs Corp. two and a half years ago. The Bur­roughs Corp. is a leader in the field of business com­puters, but unfortunately its machines are not design­ed to be the main frame of an entire college. 
The Burroughs was slow. How slow was it? Last year, I almost exclusively used punch cards rather than face the long waits on the main computer. Punch cards. This was 1982, and the most efficient access to a computer was a method I naively thought was only used in museums. 
This year things changed. For one thing, most of the punch card machines are removed, so that option has been taken from the students. And more impor­tantly, we have a new computer, one made by PRIME Computer Inc. The PRIME was supposed to be much 
Tom Mowle 
Science Editor 

Inside Friday 
faster and able to handle larger numbers of students. And it is. 
But now that the initial euphoria has worn off, we realize that much better than the old system is still not good enough. Twice as many students can use it at one time. But, as one professor put it, that only means "we can frustrate 40 students at a time instead of just 20." It is also faster. Where once you had 15-minute waits, you now have only five. A vast improvement, but is it good enough? 
The system still collapses under a much lighter load than should be acceptable. The situation is so bad that several professors are seriously considering withdraw­ing their class projects rather than "make life miserable for them, not to mention the other 800 who are forced to use it." 
In fairness, it must be noted that the new computer is not all that was expected; and company represen­tatives are coming here next week to try to correct some of the problems. And it also must be noted that once there is a computer installed, more people will want to use it, causing much better systems to appear no better than a poor one. 
There does seem to be an attitude among the 
bureaucracy that strongly supports computers, both on the college and the university level. Plans have been made to replace the college computer with one with double capacity next semester; and the university is already in the process of moving the administrators onto another, attached system. 
In the college, things are probably not as bad as they seem. There are almost always problems with any new system, and many of these can be corrected, at least in part. There now is a long-range outline to con­tinue to upgrade facilities, plans which are compatible with what is already present. 
The existence of these plans is perhaps the most im­portant reason to be optimistic about the future of computing at Notre Dame. If the money can be raised, whether from corporate grants or through private donations, the computing facilities at Notre Dame will be gradually, but steadily, improved, until it has reached a level comparable to the national norms. 
Of course, it would be nice if the process went beyond that, beyond average to the excellence we claim to strive for. 
per 60s.-AP 
The_Obseryer_ 


The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) os puhloshed Monday thmugh Friday and on home lootball Saturdays. excepl dunng exam and vacation penods The Obeervllf os puiJhshed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa"'t Marys College Subswpltons may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 pel semester) by wrrtmg The ObMrVer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Oamo. Indoana 46556 
The ObMnHtr os a member of 
TM -.cctetect f"NM. All 
r..po odurtoor> nghts are r~n~ed 

------~------------------------------­
Cosimo Hair Design staurant 
18461 St. Rd. 23 
Best inAged Stea 
277-1857
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
Men: Regularl11 $14.95, Special Prlc:e $10 • 
Women: Regalarl11 $20, Special Prlc:e $15 • for reservations 
255-7737 
• with coupon 
Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. 
for Notre Darne students onl!l Clo!>~d Su & Holidays 
Under New M;magement! 
G~'r Wt'LL 
Chinese American Resta.raat &Cocktail Lounge 
•BlAND NEW CHEF •BRAND NEW STYLE 
AUTHENTIC SZECHAUN AND HUNAN TASTE 
I

LUNCH SPECIAL 
I 

ANY COMBINATION PLATE I FOR ONLY 
INCLUDES SOUP EGG ROll fRIED RICf fNTiltE 
$295: 

AND HOI lEA 
I 

Brian & Mary G. appearing every Friday& Saturday 9pm-lam 
272·7376 

I lfO Dixie W1y South, South Bend !k~>Hiilnd) (Next to Randall's Inn) 

<.lll'i 1\1 ~ ~, .... " "tl'ftJi ··,.: ':...~.:~;..--.. '"''i:··:;1Fft.JI!I--1111i11P' 

SAVE$$$ 
2.5 cubic Dormitory Refrig. 
$35.00 for School Year Limited Quantities 
BURNS RENT-ALLS INC. 
332 W. Mishawaka Ave. 
Mishawaka, IN 
2.59-2833 
The Observer 

We still have spots available for Senior Portraits. Call RightAway. 
239-5185 9:30 a.m.-5:00p.m. Patty 3097 Jane,6849 after6:30 

Burn's Creative Costume Shop 
608 Liberty Drive, Mishawaka 
259-4807 Fulfill Your Wildest Fantasies With Our Costumes Birthday Cake Dancing Beer Cans Lepracauns 
Sequin Gowns Spiders Sequin Jackets 
Fly Bee
~ 

I 
AND MANY MORE ,, ~ Student Discounts Stop in to Reserve No Deposit with Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 9:00am-5:00pm Sat. 9:00am -12:00 noon Extended Hours for Halloween 

;~, 
·~ 219/277-1095 

Airport Limo I 


Roseland Cab. Co. any size group I to anywhere 
.50 ~ OFF with coupon Limit one perperson 
k 
1': 

The New Owners of the Ice House Present

• i 

I I I I I I 
The *6.95 Special 
VA....Jr'"""""' 

Prime Rib and Crab Legs -A 6 oz. cut of our choice, aged prime rib and 6 oz. of sput snow crab legs. Includes choice of potato or fresh vegetable, salad bar, soup and ~~c~· rresh. hot bread. 
!-ouseLl-Available 5. 6:30p.m. on FridayandSaturday 

Noon until 9 p.m. on Sunday --+--t---4H~ESTAU.RANT No ~ou~ns PI~ I I 100 Center For reservations call 259­


Friday, September 23, 1983-page 3 
$$ WANTED $$ USCvs.ND lFOOTBALL TICKETS (21~) 481-7079 
Corn & Sausage Roast! September 24th at Uncle's Irish Pub! 
4609 Grape Road, Mishawaka Food & Music start at 5:ooPM "Spare Parts" Music 5:00 'til8:00, then watch BIG T.V. SCREEN 
N.D. vs. MIAMI . music to follow!!! 

•Corby's Football Weekend 
FRI: Afternoon "Happy Hour" 3PM·7PM Mix Drinks 2 for one 
SAT: Corby's Miami Game "Tailgate Party" 
5:00-"Bloody Mary" Party .75¢ ea. 
6:00 · Drafts ...........................50¢ ea. 
7:00 · Little Kings .50¢ ea. 
8:00 · Michelob $1.00 .ea. 9:00-ND vs MIAMI 
Go Irish! Beat Miami!!! 

University Food Service presents: 

''THE BIG STORY'' 
Late Night Munchies? Whereto Go? 

OAK ROOM CAFE! 
I 

Bmgers Pizza • Milkshakes 
Mon-ThiiiS 9-12 Fri-Sat 9-2am 
Study Break? 
War Powers Act passes in committee 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House Foreign Affairs Committee voted 30-6 Thursday to give Presi­dent Reagan broad authority to keep I ,200 Marines in Beirut for the next 18 months, as House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. moved to quell a mutiny within his own ranks against the war powers compromise. 
The committee vote was the first legislative test of the war powers resolution reluctantly accepted by President Reagan, who has said he has constitutional objections to any congressional voice in the deploy­ment of U.S. forces overseas. 
But growing criticism of the compromise agreed to by O'Neill and other congressional leader guaranteed there would be attempts to shorten its length from 18 mon­ths in a heated debate on the House floor, probable next Thursday. 
The resolution declares congres­sional approval of Reagan's policy of assigning the Marines as part of a multinational peacekeeping force in and around Beirut, but also sets some specific restrictions on how they can be used. 
At the White House, deputy press secretary Larry Speakes greeted the vote as a "significant step toward full approval" of the resolution. He said the committee action speaks well "for ultimate passage and indicates widespread support for this legislation." 
• • .SMC 

continuedfrom page 1 
Even without such a campaign, the school received $502,000 in gifts from alumnae in 1981-82. Last year the school received $930,000. 
The endowment has grown year­ly since 1969 with gifts from alum­nae, bequests, leftover operational expenses and gifts from the sisters. The sisters' $1.4 million cumulative gift is the largest from any single source. 
"If the endowment would grow a lot faster it wou'ld take pressure off the rising tuition rate," Lindower said. 
The endowment itself is not spent but is handled by a group of five outside investors who are given the discretion to administer the funds. 
The earnings of the endowment are considered when deciding upon the tuition. Ti was also pledged as collateral on the bond issued for the building of the Cushwa­Leighton Library. 

Open Spm, Tues.-Sat. 7pm, Sunday 

___j 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­The Observer Friday, September 2 3, 1983 -page 4 
.-~ 

..JJII:==:"Papa & Mama Do The Cooking"'•··--~ 


BEER 
KEGS Old Style 6.99 
GOEBELS 26 99 
24 cans 1 PLUS DEPOSIT • 
24 cans Keg 
$27"
plus deposit 

Budweiser; udweiser 
12 pock CGlS 
3.99 ~ barrel 22 00 
plus deposit • 

MICHELOB MILLER 
Nq hassel depq•tt pqttcy
8.59 

24cans 
8.90 case LIQUOR 
WINE Crown Royal 75o mt ••• _ •••• 10.99 J & 8 Scotch 750mt ••••••••• 9.49 M & R Asti ............... 7.99 Kamchatka Vodka 1.75 ••••• 7.99 Jim Beam 75omt ••••••••••• 5.69 Boones Farm.~ ........... 1.29 Wolfschmidt Vodka 1.75 •••• 8.99 Windsor 75o mt •••••••••••• 5.69 San Paolo Dinner Wine .... 1.89 Tanqueray Gin 750mt ••••••• 8.99 Black Velvet 1.75 •••••••••• 9.99 Richard~s Wild ). Fleishman Gin 1.75 •••.• _ •• 9.99 Kahlua 750mt ••••••••••••• 8.99 Irish Rose . ~, ... -. ·..... ·:t.79 
Hiram Walker .•.au :o..q~ ~~"'· ~...-1 v,r.1:..i1L fn;• .,, . ·.·H'h''· ,.-o...
Castillo Rum 750mt ••.••.•.• 4.39 •t. Schnapps 75o mt •• __ ••••• 4.69 
StqreHqurs: 

Weekdays 9·1 0 We_accept student checks with NO ID frl & Sat 9-11 277·6805 

... Frick 
continued/rom page I 
"It is because of the ab~olute con­viction of the value of Notre Dame that alumni, friends, and corpora­tions support the University so strongly," he said. "We must retain our strong religious character and our academic progress in order to merit that strong support." 
"There are always some people willing to give. The Americans are an extremely generous people," Frick commented, "the key is fin­ding persuasive people to represent the cause." 
In reflecting upon his achievements as vice-president, Frick said, "I receive the greatest satisfaction from simply seeing the campus: the professorships, the new buildings, and the increase in scholarships." 
Frick will remain as the officer of the Board of Trustees and will ad­vise his succe~sor on fundraising techniques, alumni programs and 


Notre Dame magazine. 
Buy 





Observer 
•t>~~
.~~'-' 

(;\'),fb'b~ 





The CoDege ofScience 


is seeking a Student Representative to the Academic Council. Interested Students 
, ' should submit a short letter of application 
~  to the Dean's office, 229 Niewland, by  
~  Wednesday, Sept. 28. Open to all Collegfe of  ;:  
·  Science students .. For more info contact  
1'l1 I - Dean's Office. ~· :,!£, .·..,.----::--: -c­,·?Jx-,;>--.-,·.lf&mx~;-,,,.;W&%&:&-;,'i?Y.0:Y  \J  

UART 






BEER 

" Francesco's Famiglia ~ 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
Til~ Origintd Southern Recipe Lasagna, Horne-made Spaghetti, 1636 N. Ironwood Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana "WE DELIVER" All Vc.rieties of Sandwiches 
McCarthy's EST.l983 
Mon: Monday Night Football ­Pitchers $2 during game 
Tues: Vino Nite ­ N.D. Dome  
Wine.75 aglass  
Wed: Talent and Ladies Nite  - NO Ave.  
Happy Hourprices to ladies  
Thurs: Cheers Nite  - 
. 25 draftB-JOPM Fri: Pre-Game Nite - Hill St. *McCarthy's  
wake up the echoes with us!  
Sat: Sat. Morning Confusion ­ 

Irish Omelets 12.50; draft 7AM .10 
up a dime every hour till noon 
Sat. Afternoon Pre-Game Warm-Up ­
$2.00 pitchers 4-8 
Uncle Vinnie Says: "Don't drink any more 
410 N. Hi/lllon-Tburs 11:00-1:00 
But don't drink any less'" 
Fri 11:00-2:00 
Sat 7:00AM · 2:00AMFul/lin_e ofPub Grub served dai(y 

The Observer Friday, September 23, 1983-page 5 
Professor Richard Stevens teaches his color photography class how to evaluate negatives .  
'Old Chern' becomes state-of-the-Art  
Renovated building offers department new home  
Fredrick Beckman couldn't be happier if an original Rembrandt  
came waltzing in the Isis Gallery.  
"We're all super enthused and very pleased with it," said Be­ 
ckman, chairman ofthe art department.  
The "it" is the newly renovated Art Building that once was called  
the Chemistry Building. Snuggled against the south side of  
Nieuwland Science Hall, the renovated building officially becomes  
the new home ofthe art department today at 4.  
A Mass in the building and celebrated by Father Theodore Hes­ 
burgh, president ofNotre Dame, will dedicate the building.  Dennis Ryan and  
The students seem pleased with the new setting. Chuck Hutti, a  Terlsita Arvelo discuss  
senior who is taking a beginning watercolors course in the building,  notes in the Art building  
said, "It's a major fmprovement; the whole building looks better. I  lobby.  
don't see how anyone could work in it (the old Fieldhouse), but I  
really like this new building."  
The new building has more than 55,000 square feet for classes and  
studios. The decision to renovate the old chemistry building was  
made because the department's old home -the Fieldhouse ­was  
demolished last spring.  
The renovation was the cheapest way to give the department a  
new home.  
"For an expenditure ofabout $1.2 million we now have a building  
worth between 3 and 5 million dollars," said Fredrick Beckman,  
chairman of the department.  
The art history classes will remain in O'Shaughnessy in order to be  
close to the Snite Museum ofArt and the art library. Administrative  
offices wlll remain in O'Shag also, but everything else has been  
moved into the Art Building.  
When the Snite Museum of Art was designed, Beckman had the  
architects also design a building to house the department The build­ 
ingwas to wrap around the Snite and its projected costwas just more  
than S2 million. But when cost estimates rose above S5 million, the  
University decided to renovate the old chemistry building instead.  
The chemistry building is in excellent structural condition, and  
the renovation has transformed the interior. Kay Healy works on a The architecture work was completed by Cole Esochis, of South project in Industrial De­Bend, who also designed St. Ed's Hall after it burned in 1981. sign.Curt labitzke, a second-year graduate student in the art depart­ 
ment said, "Everybody is 100 percent happier in here." And he noted  
that "everybody seems to have more energy here."  
The Isis Gallr.ry is located on the third floor of the building, and  
labitzke has an exibition of his drawings and collages there until  
next Friday. He thinks that the presentation is much better in the  
new gallery.  
But some complained that the new building has less space than  
the Fieldhouse.  
The Department ofArt, Art History, and Design has more than 90  
possible majors for both undergraduate and graduate students. Each  
year more than 2,000 students enroll in some art course, and this  
year they have a newly renovated building for their classes.  


View~oint 
Friday, September 23, 1983-page 6 
Difficulties in getting around 
Any visitor to Notre Dame cannot help hut marvel at the serene beauty of the campus. The many trees and the twin lakes orovide the pt>rft"ct atmosphere for taking a 
RandyFahs Friday analysis 
stroll. The restictlon~ on automobile traffic :md the proximity of most bf the buildings on campus make this a pedestrian campus. But, for the individual who is unable to walk, daily life at Notre Dame can be frustratingly dif· ficult. 
I always enjoyed being able to walk from one place to another, and I never gave much thought to the fact that what seemed like a tremendous asset . to me was a terrible obstacle to the handicapped person. After I had knee surgery, I began to experience some of the difficulties and frustrations that come with being on cruiches and having to get across campus. • 
When I first got out ofthe hospital I tried to see if I could gain access to one of the many golfcarts that can be seen speeding about the university. I was <ntickly informed that the carts I saw were available only for varsity ath· letes who were unable to walk. The average student was left to fend for themself. 
In the past, Notre Dame students often rented golf carts from businesses in South Bend. The costs were prohibitive and the 
supply became uncertain as acts of vandalism on campus made local merchants unwilling to rent their carts to Notre Dame students. 
This problem forced Sister Evelyn Booms, the director of handicapped student affairs and rectress of Pasquerilla East, to try to form a transport service for people with difficulties getting around campus. Fr. Van Wolvlear was originally skeptical about the idea because of the past record ofgolfcart vandalism. He final­ly relented and the service was begun during last year's spring semester. 
The Athletic Department donated one ofits older carts to the cause, and the Office ofStu­dent Affairs showed its support by purchasing a second one. To help cut down on vandalism, the vehicles are stored in the maintenance garage. 
The transport service is staffed entirely by volunteers who have to go out to the main­tenance garage early in the morning so they can have the carts ready for students to be driven to their classes. Handicapped students are driven to and from wherever they have to go on campus until 4:15 p.m. Admittedly, the service is not all-encompassing, but it certain­ly eases some of the burdens that can be as· sociated with an inability to walk while a person lives on a pedestrian campus. 
People interested in utilizing the transportation service, or anyone who is wil­ling to volunteer their time as a driver should contact Sr. Evelyn Booms, 626 Pasquerilla East. The telephone number is 239-7200. 

Yitzak Shamir: Begin in disguise 
Menachem Begin's tenure as Prime Minis­these rights, Begin was willing to take virtually proceeded smoothly. The full internal and notes, Shamir is committed to the same ter of Israel ended last week with his formal any action, frequently without regard for foreign policy ramifications of the transition revisionist approach to territorial issues. This resignation. His departure has made many world (and particularly American) support. are still in doubt, though the direction of the commitment to similar ideological goals 
wonder how the leadership transition will af-The inflexibility inherent in this attitude made the future Shamir government seems rather should insure continuity in foreign policy it very difficult for the US to deal with Israel on predictable. between the Begin and Shamir governments. a diplomatic level, though Begin enjoyed Internally, Shamir will have little choice but It is clear, then, that Israel will undergo no
Joseph Merchant 
widespread support for these policies among to continue Begin's domestic policies major changes as a result of Begin's resigna­Israeli people. His great charisma was largely (including military expenditures which com· tion. Israel under Yitzak Shamir will be just
Guest column 

responsible for his long survival in the un­prise 30 percent of the budget). These as controversial as it was under Menachem stable system of Israel's politics. Israel under policies were so popular among the Israelis Begin. feet Israel's internal and foreign policies. Begin was a very controversial and enduring that Shamir will either agree with them, or be 
The Begin administration was unique since nation. voted out ofoffice. it's chief motivation was the helief that Israel Begin's recently confirmed replacement is Shamir's foreign policy will not be sig· joseph Merchant is a freshman from Iowa possesses certain irrefutable historical and former cabinet member, Yitzak Shamir. So far nificantly different from Begin's either. As City, Iowa. joseph plans to major in interna· biblical rights. To protect or further achieve the transition from Begin to Shamir has Alan Dowty (faculty expert on Mideast affairs) tiona/ relations. 

Is scalping tickets really wrong? 
The tradition ofscalping is as old as the con· cept of charging admission to spectator sports. Scalping is deeply embedded in the history of our own country (settlers ex· 
Fran Norton 
Shrinking reality 

dudt·d ). It is noteworthy to mention that st·v~ral hamous people w~r~ once scalpers. Ahner Doubleday did it all the time. Some say that The Bah~ sold complimentary tick~ts to Yankees games at exorbitant pric~s. A few heathens t•ven suggest that the Gipper might have scalped now and then to pay poker tabs. Before he met Mr. Coffee, Joe DiMaggio was one of the greatest scalpers ofall time. 
Dear f."ditor: 
I am throughly appalled and sorely disap· point~d in the editorial staff of the Ohsen1er for allowing a comic strip to take aim at a group of misfortunate persons such as women with serious eating disorders. Mr. John Gibbs, who pt·nncd the cartoon "Schmen," lias shown a genuine lack of interpersonal sen· sitivity and human compassion hy using bulimia as a topic for humor. He mak~s light of the tt·ndency to hinge and purge, suggt·sting that the staff of the Counseling and Psycho· logical S~rvices Center would "discuss this over lunch." lit· docs not s~em to recognize 
Let's look at who loses by scalping on this campus. 
The scalpers don't lose; they make money through scalping. The people buying from a scalper don't lose; they get to see their team play. So who loses? The ticket office. 
Even though most universities and colleges give tickets to their students, the Notre Dame ticket office sells tickets to its students at 
$7 .50 a pop. General admission tickets sell for fifteen dollars each. A considerable sum, espe· cially since the stadium holds 59,000 people. But even at these steep prices, we scal­pers...uh, the scalpers can make a 100 percent profit on each ticket -a profit that the ticket office does not receive. 
So why is scalping at Notre Dame illegal? The state ofIndiana, the leader of the Mid· west, dropped the law against scalping from their penal code in the late 1800's. But DuLac is still against scalping (a tiny bit behind the times?). Why? 
Profit. 
Someone is making a profit where Notre Dameought to be. Personally, every time I see some poor old alumni standing outside a pep rally with a "Need two" sign, my heart just bleeds. I see that poor alumni, who might have driven hundreds of miles to see his old alma mater in action, standing dejectedly in the midst of a celebration. The thought of him driving all that way in vain just tears me. What do I do? Am I going to tell this man that there's no room at the inn? No! I feel compelled, nay, called -to go up to that g_oor soul and offer him my very own pair of GA's for a paltry 75 bucks. 
As I walk away with my... fifty aollars, I 

P.O. Box 0 
Bulimia cartoon in question 
that somewhere between 15 and 25 percent of American college-age women are afflicted with this disorder, which causes severe depression, lowers self-esteem, produces so· cial isolation and family turmoil, and leads to several serious medical complications. I am aware of some cases where death has been precipitated hy the disorder or where suicide has been associated with it. And, the amount of emotional turmoil and suffering engen· dered by this disorder cannot be understated. To use this as a topic for humor is crass, in· fan tile, and cruel. Must we remain in an age of cheap shots. low grade humor, and thinly· veiled superiority? Have we forgotten the 
uproar created by similar "mature" behavior 
in the past (e.g. No Fat Chicks T-shirt inci· dent)? Perhaps we should next poke fun at such other helpless targets as racial groups, persons of differing religious views, or per· sons with diabetes, hypoglycemia, leukemia, or the like. 
I would hope that the readers share my con­cern for this type of behavior, especially from students in a Catholic insititution that prides itself on social concerns and addressing human suffering. Mr. Gibbs is welcome to meet with me to learn t1rst-hand ofthe terrors realize that I have just obeyed the Law of Supply and Demand. I have partaken in an Economic Abstraction. I am a capitalist! 
By scalping my tickets I have not broken any laws of Indiana or seriously violated any rule of Du Lac -I have actually asserted my belief in Capitalism. I have demonstrated the buying and selling of property by free in­dividuals. I have shown my confidence in the strength of the American dollar. I have done my part to stop the import of international communism on this campus! Is this a great country or what? 
Francis Norton is a sophomore in the College of Science from Wilmington, Delaware. 
ofbulimia, a disorder that is more difficult and more dangerous than heroin addiction. The women that find the courage and conviction to address their problem with professional help certainly show a great deal more maturity, strength of character, and intel­ligence than Mr. Gibbs. And, should anyone else care to learn more of the nature of these disorders (bulimia, compulsive overeating, anorexia nervosa, etc.), I would welcome their inquiries. 
Daniel]. Rvhicki, Psy.D. 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic 
Uox IJ. Notrt" I )cone. /.V ·/(,)')(, (.!I <J) .!j<)·'5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . ..... ; ........ Daniel O'Hare 
The (J/Jsen•et· •~ tilt" llHlqwndent n,·w~paper puhlbhnlln tht" ~tudt·nt~ of tht" Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas vn~ltv ol Notre Dame du L1c and ~aint 1\lan··, Colll-ge It doc~ not necc~~arih rdkct News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen tht· p<.,liuc~ of the adn11n1~tration of nthe~ l!l~titutum. Tht· new' i~ rt·port~d a~ at· News Editor ... ,, ._.,, ..... ,....... Mark Worscheh -Composition Manager . ........ Suzauue La Croix naratl"lv and a~ ohJeC!i\el\ .1~ po~~ihk I n~ignnl nlltonah repr~~cnt th~ opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne MonaSTyrsk't"•· Circulation Manager . ............. Mark Miolto maJority of the hluon.al Board <.ommentarie~. lt·uer~. and t ht· Inside<:olumn prt·sent Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamilton System Manager ............... Kevin Williams tlw vit"'>'>'of thnr author~ <.olumn ~pan· i~ avallahlt· to all nlt"mher~ of the communitv. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower and tht· frt·t· t•xprt·~~ion of\ an mgop1n1on~ on campu~. through lett~r~. i~ ent·ouraged. 
.\J}()rts l:ditur ... \1 ichacl ~ullivan 
Founded November 3, 1966 




Noseguard vs. Center 
Kelley gets task of block·ing Miam·i's 'rock' Fitzpatrick 
ByTIM DOYLE 
Sports Writer 

Trench warfare is often considered the most grueling form of combat. for victory or defeat. This battle ofthe trenches refers to the confrontation ofoffensive linemen and defensive linemen. 
The ~attic between the Notre Dame football team and the Univer­sity of Miami football team promises to he a classic battle of the trenches as possibly the key matchup ofthe game will he the Irish of­fensive line against the Hurricane defensive line. 
The Irish will be faced with a 5-2 defense from the Hurricanes, the same defense that the Hurricanes will see from the Irish. The key positioh in the 5-2 defense is the noseguard position. The man at this position for Miami is senior Tony Fitzpatrick. 
Miami head coach Howard Schnellenberger refers to Fitzpatrick as "the rock ofour defense." 
Ifyou were to see Fitzpatrick you might think he looks like a rock At 6-0, 243 pounds, he is ideal for the position ofnoseguard. Because ofhis height, he is usually shorter than most centers. This allows him to get good leverage and get·under the offensive center. 
Fitzpatrick also has the strength needed for the position. He can bench press 520 pounds and squat 450 pounds. To put this in perspective, Notre Dame alumnus Larry Moriarty, who was the strongest player on the team last year, could bench press a maximum of485 pounds. 
The noseguard lines up directly over the center position. That means that junior Mike Kelley will have the blocking assignment on Fitzpatrick. Kelley, 6-5, 269 pounds, will he getting his first true test
\ 
at center against a top lineman. 
Head offensive line coach Carl Selmer says, "The matchup of Fitzpatrick and Kelley should be very good. Mike has made the transition to center very well, hut he will get his first true test Satur­day." 
Selmer continues, "Fitzpatrick is obviously their best lineman. He I?'?SS<;~ses !1~~~.t,stre~_gth and good speed." 
\Voile tfiis is Kelley's first season at center, he is no stranger to the offensive line and he has extensive experience. Kelley started all 11 games at the quicktackle position in 1982. ln 1981 he started the last 
two games ofthe season and saw action in the four prior games. Last 
spring he was awarded the Hering Award as top offensive lineman. 
"Going head-to-head against a noseguard is kind ofdifficult," ad­mits Kelley. "You have to snap the ball and at the same time block a player who is breathing down on you. You just have to concentrate on doing what your supposed to do and think." 
Although Fitzpatrick is Miami's top lineman, do not look for the Irish to make any special changes in blocking assignments on his ac­count. 
CoachSelmer notes, "We will just run our regular offense. W c can­not afford to concentrate on just one player, because there are 10 other players out there also playing defense." 
Supporting Kelley on the offensive line on the left side will be senior Greg Golic at quick tackle and sophomore Tim Scannell at quick guard. 
Golic, 6-7, 263 pounds, is starting for the second week in a row in place of Mike Shiner. Shiner remains sidelined with a twisted knee. 
"Greg started last week for us and did quite well, says Selmer. "Shiner has not practiced for seven or eight days because of his knee." 
Scannell, 6-4, 270 pounds, is a probable starter. He hurt his knee against Michigan State and is on a day-to-day basis as far as playing. If Scannell cannot play, look for either seniorJerry Weinle or sopho­more Torn Doerger to start. 
On the right side ofthe offensive line senior Neil Maune and junior Larry Williams remain the starters. When Notre Dame and Miami square off in the Orange Bowl on 
Irish center Mike Kelley leads the blocking Saturday, do not be surprised ifyou hear the banging ofshoulder pads and the butting of helmets. The battle of the trenches will he center stage. 
Miami plans big greeting, but Irish



Bad weather: 
had better watch out for Hurricanes 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI Three weeks later the team lost to USC after losing to Florida State 
the previous week. Finally, it followed a loss to Penn State in the tenth game of the year with a 37-15 embarassment to Miami in the season finale. 
Sports Writer 

Ifthe Notre Dame football team hopes to redeem itselfthis week, Last year the team responded to its loss to Arizona with a tie the it will have to overcome some very difficult challenges that the next week against an Oregon team that was to win two games all Miami Hurricanes will offer Saturday night in the Orange BowL year. The Penn State loss, meanwhile, was followed with a defeat The first challenge that the team faces, however, is from within 
from the Air Force Academy.itself. That challenge is to rebound from a loss with an inspiring 
The coaching staff for Notre Dame has done everything it could performance that can possibly set the team back to its winning ways. this week in order to avoid such a scenario this weekend. It even 
Unfortunately, the Irish have a very poor record over the last two held an hour-and-a-halfworkout for the players this past Monday-a years in bouncing back from defeat. In 1981 Notre Dame lost its first game ofthe year to Michigan and then lost to Purdue the next week see MIAMI, page 8 Tony Fitzpatrick 


MIAMI 

Friday, September 23, 1983-page 8 



Mr. Consistency 
Jon Autry shows that hard work pays Ol 
By ED DOMANS.KY 
Sports Writer 
Although not one ofthe most glamorous assignments on the defensive unit, the position of nose tackle is cer­tainly one ofthe most important in terms ofits value in supporting the defense. "The nose tackle anchors the center ofthe defense,"says Notre Dame head defensive line coach Greg Blache. "He holds down the middle, and with the help ofhis other linemen, aids in forcing the play to the outside -and that is a key to a successful defense." 
SeniorJon Autry is currently responsible for the nose tackle position on this year's Notre Dame football team. Autry, at 6-2, 246 pounds, is in his second season as a starter in this crucial spot. 
Autry previously saw action at linebacker and end before converting to nose tackle during the spring of 1982. As a linebacker during the 1980 campaign, he played in the last eleven games, including t the Sugar 
'Jon Autry has made himself a good player' 
Jon Autry Irish noseguard 
continued from page 9 
day that has previously been reserved for rest. "I think we'll bounce back and play very well this week," predicts Notre Dame Head Coach <;erry Faust. 
The second challenge for the Irish is to overcome the widespread vengeance and enthusiasm that has gripped the city of Miami in an­ticipation of Notre Dame's arrival. Notre Dame's I6-14 victory last year on Mike Johnston's ~2-yard field goal with I1 seconds left to play left the Miami team ;md its fans with a very sour taste in their mouths. 
"Not heating Notre Dame last year at South Bend was a missed opportunity," says Miami Head Coach Howard Schnellenberger. "We have, I think, a better team and should be favored in this game (they are favored hy a field goal)." 
With the game being televised nationally by CBS, Miami 
promoters have called it the higgest game in South Florida since the 
1979 Super Bowl which was playt:d in the 75,500-seat Orange Bowl. 
Among the events to take place are a halftime extravaganza that in­
cludes fireworks, and a 50-event promotional plan which began yes­
terday in conjunction with the Notre Dame-Miami game. 
"All summer long we've heard what a hig weekend this is going to 
be in Miami," says Faust. "But we've got to remember that despite all 
those other things going on we're going down there to win a football 
game." 
That will be a third difficult challenge since Miami has won 20 of its 22 games in tht• Orange Bowl under Schnellenberger. But facing a high-powered pro-style passing offense and a strong experien(·ed defense are the real challenges that the Irish will face. 
The Miami oll"ense features Bernie Kosar, who was redshirted as a freshman last year, as the quarterback. The 6-5, 205-lb. Kosar has completed 52 ofhis 91 passes this year for 602 yards and has thrown five touchdowns and five interceptions. Tight end Glenn Dennison and speedy wide receiver Stanley Shakespeare head an outstanding corps ofreceivers for the Hurricanes. Dennison has caught 15 passes this year for 18~ yards while Shakespeare has latched onto 13 completions for 194 yards. Eleven other receivers for Miami have c;aught at least one pass this year. 
"Kosar is a big stron~-armed kid," says Faust. "I'm sure he's still 
maturing because he'll only be starting his fourth game against us. 
But you know he'll come out there and throw the ball right at us, just 
likeJim Kelly did the last time we played Miami at the Orange Bowl 
(Kelly threw for 2~8 yards in the first half alone in that game). 
"Howard Schnellcnberger does a great job with his quarterback.~. and he'll be the first one to tell you that throwing the football is the way they like to do husiness. Miami's running game has really im­proved the last couple of years, but there is not much question they're going to put the ball up 30 or 35 times a game." 
The running game, though, is also quite solid for the Hurricanes as Bowl against Georgia. In 1981, his sophomore year, Autry started eight ofthe last nine games at end and earned second-team recognition on the sophomore All­America team as chosen byFootball News. 
When making the transition from end to nose tackle, Autry found himself battling Tim Marshall for the start­ing assignment, but, by virtue ofa Marshall foot injury which sidelined him for the entireseason, Autry landed the starting nod. 
During the I982 season, his top efforts produced seven tackles against Purdye, Arizona, and Oregon. He also recovered a fumble in the season opener with Michigan and garnered two tackles for losses against Arizona. 
A healthy Marshall once again provided competition for Autry during the spring of 1983, but Autry worked very hard and held on to hls starting job. For his efforts in the spring drills, he received the liering Award as 
top defensive lineman. 
With this season still just two games old, Autry h made his mark on his coaches by maintaining a con tent style ofplay. "Going into this season, we thou@ Jon was our most consistent player," says Blache, "1 even after Purdue and Michigan State, we still belie he is." 

Consistency is an important ingredient at a vcrsa1 position like nose tackle. A variety ofdifferent situati arc encountered, and each one may call for somethl different. The nose tackle must be capable ofadaptit to them all. "He is responsible for for quite a few thin! depending on the set up," says Blache. "He is respon sihlc for containing the center, for keeping the offens linemen offthe linebackers, for filling certain gaps, t blitzing certain gaps, as well as understanding a wid1 range of blocking schemes." 
When discussing why one player is often better suited to a certain position than another, the idea of physical assets usually plays an integral part in the dis sion. Autry's coach notes an important quality -no necessarily physical -that greatly influences his pL 
"Jon Autry is his biggest asset," says Blache. "Just: character that he brings as a person. He's an ovcrac-1 hiever. He plays better than he really is. I don't think1 good Lord blessedJon with the talent as he did som other people, butJon manages to get the maximum c ofthose talents. He ha-; made himself a good footbal player. He's a real pleasure to coach." 
Another ofAutry's coaches, defensive tackle coao Jay Robertson, further supports Blachc with his vie, Autry. "Jon is one ofthe players who really accepts coaching and constructive comments in the way till they're made. He's one who will put into action a sq gestion that was made just minutes earlier. 
"He says very little at practice, yet you know from 
look in his eye that he heard everything that was sat 
Robertson continues, "and you never have to worr] 
about ifit will be done or not." 
When Autry looks at himselfand attempts to pinpt 
his own assets, surprisingly enough, his own ideas p 
ty much parallel th0se cited by his coaches. 
"I have a strong desire to do well," says the senio 
economics major from Ft. Wayne. "I don't like to sc 
myselfongame films doing things wrong. I get very 
set with myself. Ofcourse everyone wants to be peri 
but nobodywill. I strive each time just to do evcrythi 
right." 
At the beginning ofevery season each player usu; setsa goal for himself, and Autry is no exception. In tl case, by usingwhat Autry himselfand his coaches set his biggest assets, the goal he has established beco 
very realistic. 
"My goal is to be the best that I can possibly be," 
says, "by performing to my maximum capabilities 
game, each play. As far as I'm concerned, things do 
come easy for me. I just have to work hard in gctf 
them done." 
To be the best that he iscapable of, Autry works lu both on and offthe field. "When we're not on the fie 
go over in my mind my foot placement, my hand p 
ment, and where I'm supposed to be at a given time­
well as what an opposing player may do in certain sit 
tions. I think this mental review, then, just carries o 
into the game." 

Alongwith mental preparation, Autry also worked the physical. "Over the summer I worked out with Stacey(Toran) and we did a lot ofrunning and lift" he says. "I feel a lot stronger. In the la'lt two games I wasn't getting as tired as I was last year. I feel like I'm · lot better shape." 
Being in good shape cn-.blcs Autry to be the co · tent player he is, and consistent play is an example · the type ofleadership the senior veteran provides li his teammates. 
''I'd like to think that my teammates respect me a what I stand for," says the soft-spoken Autry. "l'mn vocal leader. I just try to present myselfin a way that show someone a good example." 
"He's a quiet leader," said Blache. "He leads bye ample or by battling. I think the guys rally around h because they know they're not going to outwork hi They just strive to be as consistent as he is." 
When Autrycompletes this season at Notre Dame, will have to move on to other things. Although his future holds a vast amount ofuncertainty at this time still has some ideas that keep him looking ahead. " now I just have things in the back of my mind," he s "but nothing is final. I have school. I'll get my degre and I hope to play further on. For the time being, though, I'm just taking things as they come." 
As fur as playing football beyond college is con­cerned, Autry believes it"s something he has to try. " not drafted, I'll try out somewhere," he says. "I feci I owe that to myself. I've heen in the game for as longa can remember, and it's something I've wanted to do 
No matter what Autry does in the future, his serv· will certainly be needed the remaining nine games this season. Autry is a team player and his detcrmin manner is just one thing that everyone will soon co to notice. A player ofhis type can only aid in prov· positive support for those around him. 

• • • Miami 
it is led by a trio of seniors. Keith Griffin, the team's leading rusher last year with 473 yards, will start at tailback, while Speedy Neal, a 6-2, 245-lb. bruiser, will start at the fullback slot. Neal has gained 100 yards this year so far on 22 carries. 
The top rusher is backup halfback Albert Bentley who has run for 206 yard~ this year on 41 attempts. 
If the Irish arc to stop Miami's strong offensive attack it must ex­ploit the relatively inexperienced Hurricane offensive line. Notre Dame's defensive line must definitely put better pressure on Kosar than it did against Michigan State's Dave Yarema. In an effort to im­prove the line, sophomore Eric Dorsey will make his second start this year at the flip tackle position. The Irish may also need to rush as many as five men. Mike Gann, who started at flip tackle in the first two games, will move over to the cont~in tackle slot in place ofGreg Dingens. 
"Our defense has to get better as much as anything, especially against a team that will test it the way Miami will," says Faust. "We're asking a couple of young inside linebackers (freshman Mike Kovaleski and sophomore Tony Furjanic) to grow up in a hurry, and as they do we'll get better." • 
Seven starters return for the Hurricanes on defense. The cast is headed by nose guard Tony Fitzpatrick, linebacker Jay Brophy, roverback Ken Calhoun, and cornerback Rodney Bellinger. Besides being experienced, it is an aggressive hard-hitting defense that Phil Carter, Notre Dame's starting tailback last year, described as "very mouthy." 
Whatever it is, it is unit that poses a threat to Notre Dame's ground-oriented attack led by tailbacks Allen Pinkett and Greg Bell. The Hurricanes have yielded an average of just 134 yards i>er game on the ground this year against such ground-oriented teams as Florida and Houston. The Hurricanes arc also very capable of defending against the pass. Three of the four starters return from a secondary that allowed only 145 yards a game through the air last year while allowing the opponents to complete less than halfoftheir passes. 
Based on last week's performance, Faust isn't pushing any panic buttons yet. After all, the Irish offense did pile up 446 yards oftotal offense while the defense allowed the Spartans only two first downs and 47 yards oftotal offense in the second half. 
'We didn't play that poorly either offensively or defensively, but we can't give up the big plays the way we did last weekend," says Faust. "Miami committed seven turnovers in its opener against Florida and Purdue did the same thing against us. That's not the way to win football games. We gave the ball away four timesagainst Mich­
igan State and it cost us." "'"'""•u" ~ 11118 ;. _, Thus, the final challenge is to not give up the big play and·llave any critical turnovers. With so many challenges confronting it at Miami, Notre Dame does indeed have the opportunity to redeem itself. 


MIAMI Friday, September 23, 1983-nnge ~· 


Here's your NO-Miami TV program 
S· 
,f When the Irish When the Hurricanes 
lt a 

~d line up on offense line up on offense
Ian 
MIAMI OFFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL
m 
WR 40 Ed Brown 6-0 175 Jr. 
n. NOTRE DAME OFFENSE MIAMI DEFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 7 John Smatana 6-1 177 Sr. POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL DE 99 Julio Cortes 6-1 205 Jr. E 55 MlkeGollc 6-5 251 Jr. OT 79 Paul Bertucelli 6-4 248 Fr. he SE 24 Joe Howard 5-9 171 Jr. 92 Winston Moss 6-3 220 Fr. 56 Robert Banks 6-5 235 Fr 74 Gregg Rakoczy 6-5 278 Fr. 3 Alonzo Jefferson 5·9 172 Fr. RT 95 Kevin Fagan 6-3 261 So. FT 71 Eric Dorsey 6-5 269 So. OG 69 Juan Comen-QT 74 Mike Shiner 6-8 26 Sr. 80 Willie Broughton 6·4 245 Jr. 94 Mike Griffin 6-4 235 Fr. deiro 6-2 241 Jr.he 65 Greg Golic 6·7 263 Sr. MG 62 Tony Fitzpatrick 6-0 240 Sr. NT 38 Jon Autry 6-2 246 Sr. 70 Ed Davis 6-3 252 Fr. QG 54 Tim Scannell 6-4 270 So. 64 Dallas Cameron 6-2 232 Jr. 77 Tim Marshall 6-4 257 Jr. c 76 lan Sinclair 6-3 247 Jr.~:. 73 Jerry Weinle 6-3 248 Sr. LT 97 Fred Robinson 6-3 224 Sr. CT 78 MikeGann 6-5 256 Jr. 59 Chris Ley 6-4 219 So. c 63 Mike Kelley 6-5 269 Jr. 98 Jerome Brown 6-1 205 Jr. 92 Greg Dingens 6-5 257 So. OG 72 Alvin Ward 6-1 258 Jr. 62 Ron Plantz 6-4 266 So. DE 41 Danny Brown 6-3 223 Sr. LB 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 227 Sr. 68 Andy Dickerson 6-4 240 Jr. SG 79 NeiiMaune 6-5 278 Sr. 48 Joe Kohlbrand 6·4 224 Jr. 43 Rick DiBernardo 6-3 229 So. OT 52 Dave Heffernan 6-4 250 Jr. 53 Tom Doerger 6-5 272 So. LB 54 Jay Brophy 6-3 227 Sr. LB 58 Tony FurJanlc 6-2 231 So. 56 Stu 
ST 75 Larry Williams 6-6 284 Jr. 51 Jack Fernandez 6-1 211 Sr. 47 Tom Murphy 6-2 219 Sr. Schnellenberger 6-3 242 Sr. 76 Mike Perrino 6·5 271 So. LB 36 KenSisk 6-2 222 Sr. LB 49 Mike Kovaleski 6-2 210 Fr. TE 86 Glenn Dennison 6-3 214 Sr.
If 
TE 82 Mark Bavaro 6-4 246 So. 90 Vic Morris 6·1 234 Fr. 87 Joe Bars 6-5 237 Jr. 88 Chris Hembrough 6-2 217 Sr. 85 Brian Behmer 6-6 218 Jr. sc 1 Reggie Sutton 5-10 178 Fr. CB 30 Stacey Toran t&-4 206 Sr. QB 20 Bernie Kosar 6-5 204 Fr. i I QB 5 BlairKiel 6-1 206 Sr. 87 Lucious Delegal 6-2 193 Jr. 12 TroyWilson 5-11 170 Fr. 13 Kyle Vander· 7 Steve Beuerlein 6-3 195 Fr. QC 4 Rodney Bellin-CB 40 Pat Ballage 6-2 197 So. wende 6·3 205 So. FB 32 Chris Smith 6-2 231 Jr. ger 5-9 189 Sr. 48 John Mosley 6-1 195 Sr. FB 38 Speedy Neal 6-2 242 Sr.es 35 Mark Brooks 6-3 228 Jr. 43 Doug McFadden 6·1 186 Fr. ss 27 Joe Johnson 6-2 198 Jr. 16 Albert Bentley 5-11 208 Sr.
f 
TB 20 Allen Pinkett 5-9 174 so. R 2 Kenny Calhoun 6-1 202 Jr. 34 Daane Spiel-HB 44 Kevin Griffin 5-8 186 Sr. 28 Greg Bell 6-0 210 Jr. 2a· wune Wo1tir\lnez ' .. s:2 193 Jr. maker 6-1 203 Sr. 37 Darryl Oliver 5·11 184 Fr. FL 6 Milt Jackson 6-0 181 So. FS 29 Eddie Williams 6-0 .192 Sr. FS 9 Chris Brown 6-1 196 Sr. WR 6 Stanley1 Mike Haywood 176 So. 15 David Ditthardt 6·3 200 Jr. 23 Steve Lawrence a-o 180 Fr. Shakespeare 6-0 171 Jr K 4 Mike Johnston ~~ 195 Sr. p 12 Rick Tuten 6-1 186 Fr. p 5 BlairKiel 6-1 206 Sr. 11 Danny Kintigh 5-10 178 Fr. 2 John Carney 5-10 170 Fr. 34 Steve Minie 6-1 181 Jr. 80 Mike Viracola 5·11 181 Sr. K 3 Jeff Davis ~ 156 Sr. 
c s g 
g 
s, 

y. he 
he 
I



,/1.­
of 
Mike Johnston Kicked winning field goal last year 
he 
Miami's festive 
int 

et-weekend 
Here are just some of the activities planned for this weekend: 
Miracle Mile Ribbon Cutting Beat Notre Dame Party Superstars-type Alumni Challenge Breakfast with Howard Schnellenberger Race Track Salute to College Football Pep Rally and Block Party Jazzercise with NO and UM cheerleaders Super Suds Olympiad Free trolley rides Halftime show called 'Miami's Magic' 

Another Griffin 
Keith has a lot to live up to 
By RONNIE RAMOS ground attack, Griffin has con­
Editor-in-Chief centrated on catching the ball, 
Miami Hurricane hoping to become a "complete 
player." 
Far from the shadows ofthe Mid· Last year he caught 15 passes for west, where his three brothers went 87 yards. This year he has caught on­to college, the youngest Griffin ly four, but for 46 yards. Miami is works on building a name for him­going to Griffin on set plays. self Last week's touchdown pass is a 
Keith Griffin opted to come south, perfect example. "Bernie Kosar 
to Miami, and start a career which picked up the blitz and switched the 
his olc1est brother Archie said would play," Griffin explains. Kosar 
show Keith "was the best ofthe Grif­switched to a fly pass for Griffin. 
fins." Griffin darted out ofthe backfield, 
Quite a billing to live up to beat the linebacker and caught an considering Archie Griffin won two over-the-shoulder pass in full stride. Heisman Trophies at Ohio State. Griffin, a quiet person offthe field, 
"At the beginning it was difficult said he doesn't mind being used as a living up to it," says Keith. "But receiver. "I've learned to catch the people down here don't remember ball," he says, adding that it should too much what Archie said." help him when he breaks into the 
That is not, Griffin said, the reason pros. he came to Miami. "I came here be­As a runner, t Griffin is a mixture of cause ofCoach Howard Schnellen­speed and strength. "I try to get berger. I felt I could become a more around people, but if! can't, I'll go complete player under a pro offense inside and use my strength." than a running school." Pound for pound, he is the strong-
What about being the best ofthe Griffins? "I know inside I'm trying my best," Keith says. 
His best, he says, has yet to be seen. It may come this weekend. "This is the biggest game ofthe season," he says. "We feel we are on a roll." 
Coming offtwo consecutive vic­tories, scoring 64 points in the two games and holding their opponents scoreless in the last seven quarters, you can understand why. 
Griffin led the Hurricanes in rus­hing last year, gaining 473 yards on 87 carries ( 3.6 average). But in a pass-oriented offense, 100-yard rus­hing days are rare. Only one player had a 100-yard game for Miami last year (Speedy Neal had 110 against Cincinnati). 
Griffin's best day rushing was against Virginia Tech last year when he gained 85 yards. It was the game in whichJim Kelly was lost for the season, and UM turned to the ground game to preserve its lead. 
The running game at Miami is not the same as at Ohio State where the elderGriffin made history. UM's lon­gest run from scrimmage last year was 20 yards -by Keith Griffin. 
This year, Griffin is offto a slow start ( 27 yards on 12 carries), ham­pered bya bruised thigh. "!feltpret­ty good against Purdue," he said of his injury. 
With the lack ofan extensive 

Keith Griffin 
est Hurricane. Griffin is 5'8" and 187 pounds, but benches 430 pounds and squats 510. As a freshman he ran on the 400-meter relay team which set a school record. 
Despite his distance from the Mid· west, he knows that people there view football as being very impor­tant. That is why he wants to beat Notre Dame. "Up there," he says, "everyone remembers how you did against Notre Dame." 

MIAMI Friday, September 23, 198J-page 10 
NOTRE DAME vs. MIAMI 
THE GAME THE THE STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Miami Hurricanes TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 968 643 Pinkett 2 40 219 5.5 1 35
SITE: Orange Bowl ( 75,500) 


SERIES 
Total Plays 167 131 Bell 2 29 159 5.5 450
TIME: 8:00p.m. EST; Saturday, Sept. 24, 1983 
Yards per Play 5.8 4.9 Francisco 2 9 81 9.0 0 33 TV-RADIO: CBS Sports National Telecast ( Ch. 22) Yards per Game 484.0 321.5 C. Sm4h 2 13 73 5.6 0 18 
Gary Bender and Pat Haden 
PENALTIES-YARDS 18-142 11-92 Grooms 1 2 33 16.5 0 25 NO 14, Miami 0 FUMBLES-LOST 4-1 6-4 Brooks 2 7 29 4.1 0 7 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 46 30 Abraham 1 4 14 3.5 1 10 By Rushing 29 9 Carter 1 2 . 9 4.5 0 9 
Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
Miami 28, NO 21 By Passing 15 18 Kiel 2 9 7 0.8 0 7 Harry Kalas and George Connor By Pena~y 2 3 Howard 2 1 6 6.0 0 6 THIRD OOWNS-CONV 12-33 9-31 Beuerlein 1 1 -8 -8.0 0 -8
NO.O, Miami 0 Percentage .364 .290
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 
POSSESSION TIME 67·33 52•27 NOTRE DAME 2 117 622 5.3 650 
Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
Minutes per Game 33·47 26·13 OPPONENTS 2 69 206 3.0 1 34 WNDU-AM 1500 <+-N024,.Miami 22 ...,., 
SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP 
SERIES: Notre Dame 13, Miami 2, Ties 1 NO 17, Miami 0 DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK Oct. 9, 1982 at Notre Dame Bell 2 5 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 30 
Furjanic 16 1·6 0 0 0

LAST MEETING: Notre Dame 16. Miami 14 John.•ton I 0 10-10 0·0 0 1·2 13
NO 20, Miami 17 Kovaleskt 14 1-3 2 0 0
Bavaro 2 2 0·0 0-0 0 0·0 12 
Naylor 14 0-0 0 0 0

Pinkett 2 I 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Johnson 13 1-1 2 0 0
Aoraham I I 0-0 0·0 0 0·0 6
NO 44, Miami 0 Brown 11 1-1 0 0 0 
Marshall 11 o-o· 1 1 0

ND 21010·10 0·0 I 1·2 75 
Toran 10 0-0 0 0 0

OPP 2 5 4-5 0·0 0 0·0 .H RANKINGS: (A?) Notre Dame I ~th, Miami unranked NO 38, Miami 7 Gann 8 1·5 0 0 0 Golic 8 2·6 1 1 0
TICKETS: Expected crowd of 50,000-60,000 PASSING G NO co PCT INT YDS TO 
Dtngens 7 1·2 1 0 0

NO 32, Miami 9 -------------------
Autry 6 1-2 0 1 0

Kiel 2 45 24 .533 3 329 4 McCabe 4 0-0 0 0 0
Bauerlein 1 3 1 .333 0 17 0NO 40, Miami 27 Grooms 1 2 0 .000 0 0 0 Mosley 6 1-1 0 0 0 
Murphy 6 0-0 0 0 0 Ballage 5 0-0 0 0 0 


THE SCHEDULE 
NO 2 50 25 .500 3 346 4
NOTRE DAME MIAMI 
NO 48, Miami 10 Kletne 4 0-0 0 0 0
OPP 2 62 34 .548 4 437 4 
Butler 4 0-0 0 0 0 SEPT. I 0 dcf. Purdue, 52·6 SEPT. ~lost to Florida, 28-3 
Corsaro 3 0-0 0 0 0NO 20, Miami 0 DIBernardo 2 0-0 0 0 0
SEPT. 17 lost to MSU, 2H-2~ SEPT. I 0 de( Houston, 29-7 RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
Spielmaker 2 0·0 0 0 0 

SEPT. 24 at Miami (Fla.) SEPT. l'dd Purdue, 35-0 
Howard 2 6 83 13.8 1 24 Lawrence 2 0-0 1 1 0
NO 40, Miami 15
OCT. 1 ;tt Colorado SEPT. 24 NOTRE DAME Jackson 2 4 101 25.2 0 61 Dorsey 2 0-0 0 0 0 OCT. Hat South Carolina OCT. 1 at Duke 
Ptnkett 2 4 37 9.2 0 14 Banks 2 0-0 0 0 0 NO 32, Miami 14 Bell 2 4 29 7.2 1 11 Wilson 1 0-0 0 0 0
OCT. I 5 Army at Meadowlands OCT. 8 l.OUISVII.l.E 
Bavaro 2 3 34 11.3 2 17 Miller 0-0 0 0 0 OCT. 22 SOUTHERN CAL OCT. 15 at Mississippi State 
Favorite 1 2 35 17.5 0 18 Abraham 0-0 0 0 0 OCT. 29 NAVY OCT. 22 at Cincinnati Miami 37, NO 15 C. Smith 2 2 27 13.5 0 16 Francisco 0-0 0 0 0 NOV. 5 PITfSBURGH OCT. 29 WEST VIRGINIA 
NOTRE DAME 2 25 346 13.8 4 61 NOTRE DAME 164 10-27 8 4 0
NOV. I 2 at Penn State NOV. 5 EAST CAROI.INA 
NO 16, Miami 14 OPPONENTS 2 34 437 12.9 4 81 uPPONENTS 218 11-29 7 1 0 

..... 
• 





PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Louie Somogyi Mike Sullivan David Dziedzic Jane Healey Will Hare Steve Labate John Heisler John Bolger
the spread. In other words, it is not 

Sports Writer Sports Editor Editor-in-Chief Asst. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Guest Celebrity Random Student enough to pick the winner of a given 
18·8 15-11 13-13 13·13 12-14 12·14 10·16 12-14 game. The person must pick a winner .690 .580 .500 .500 .460 .460 .380 .460 
given the underdog points. 

INDIANA over Northwestern by 18 Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Hoosiers Hoosiers Wildcats MICHIGAN STATE even with Illinois Spartans Spartans Spartans lllini lllini Spartans Spartans lllini MICHIGAN over Wisconsin by 5 Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines NEBRASKA over UCLA by 19 Bruins Cornhuskers Bruins Cornhuskers Bruins Bruins Cornhuskers Bruins 
Ohio State over lOWA by 7 Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes 
Purdue over MINNESOTA by 8 Gophers Boilers Gophers Gophers Boilers Gophers Gophers Bollers Penn State over TEMPLE by 10 Lions Lions Owls Owls Lions Lions Lions Lions West Virginia over BOSTON COLLEGE by 5 Mountaineers Eagles Eagles Eagles Mountaineers Eagles Eagles Mountaineers 
Alabama over VANDERBILT by 9 Commodores Commodores Tide Tide Commodores Tide Tide Tide GEORGIA over South Carolina by 16 Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Bulldogs Gamecocks MIAMI over Notre Dame by 3 Irish Irish Hurricanes Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Pittsburgh over MARYLAND by 6 Panthers Terps Panthers Panthers Terps Panthers Panthers Panthers TENNESSEE over Auburn by 3 Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles WashinRton over L'iU by 4 Tigers Tigers Huskies Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Huskies Brigham Young over AIR FORCE by 9 Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Cougars 




Showcase 
Friday, September 23, 1983-page 11 
letters to a lonely god 
Becoming Immortal 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
N
ine years ago, Darby's Place, a haven for the night people of Notre Dame, was opened from mid­night until four a.m., in the basement of Lafortune. Hemingway has writ· ten a story called "A Clean, Well­Lighted Place". Darby's was the campus equivalent: a hostel for characterswho don't fall asleep until morning is near. The Ombudsman suggested that the place be named after the original Darby O'Gill, who travelled with me as a sidekick, like Tonto accompanying the Lone Ran­ger, or Laurel hanging out with Hardy. Darby's Place had semes­ters when it was very popular, and semesters when it was nearly forgot­ten. For years, the cocker spaniel and his master were faithful in showing up to meet the patrons. At times, it felt embarrassing to be near­ly alone in a shabby room, pretend­ing to be Toots Shor, the Falstaffof midtown Manhattan, while everone else was asleep. Night people come and go, but students never signed a contract that the basement of Lafortune would be their after-hours gathering place. When the original 
Darby died in 1980, he was replaced 
by D. O'G. II as the maitre d'. The 
name on the door didn't have to be 
re-painted, because one cocker 
spaniel looks a lot like another. 
Last year, feeling out oftouch, I kept away from the place that was 
neither entirely clean nor especially well-lighted 
Last Monday, a thoughtful, pleasant student who now manages Darby's, asked me ifI minded ifhe changed the name ofthe place. His question led to a mcment when I was fighting for grace under pressure. Did I mind? Ofcourse I minded. Why shouldn't I mind? It was the end ofan era, the turning point between one generation of students and another. It was the beginning ofbeing forgotten. 
I told the new manager: "I mind a great deal, for sentimental reasons. But it's your right to make a managerial decision. I have no right to oppose it." 
Most ofus would like to be num· bered among the immortals ofthe Notre Dame tradition. We would like our names included amon_g the traditionally great ones, with ourlife stories being told as part ofthe Notre Dame myth. In the song from 
Cymbeline:"Golden lads and girls all 
must/ As chimney sweepers, come to dust." We cannot deserve to be unforgettable. We can't even make people care a great deal that we are 
here now. 

Coaches stand the best chance of ' becoming immortals, but Destiny has to be favorable in giving them the breaks. A new coach comes to the campus with universal acclaim. He is a mythical figure as long as his luck holds out. Coaches know better than anyone that we ·were never promised that life would be fair. 


ProfessorJoseph Evans was a wonderful man. At his death, his 
Darby O'Gill II, pet dog of Father Robert Griffin, relishes 
in the attention ofa young visitor to the ND bookstore. Widely ac­claimed for his role as a campus celebrity, Darby never misses a chance to greet a new fan. 
friends wanted to immediately es­tablish him as an immortal. Because they were in such a hurry to honor him, they settled for too little: a dedicatory plaque that tarnishes, on the least impressive fountain in the mid-West, outside the Huddle near · the picnic tables. In the cold months, when the water is turned off, it becomes a receptacle for paper cups and napkins. It is a depressing monument to a teacher who stood as tall as the statue of Moses outside the library. 
Father Cavanaugh was president 
ofNotre Dame when I graduated in 
1949. He was an immortal who 
slipped home to God almost un­
noticed, because the students were 
away on Christmas break. A winter 
blizzard closed the South Bend air­
port on the day ofhis funeral, 
keeping away mourners. He 
deserved a chieftan's sendoff, but many ofus were not here to honor him in death."Men must endure/ Their going hence, even as their coming hither:/ Ripeness is all" wrote Shakespeare in King Lear. Ripeness only means the fulfillment ofone's alloted years. 
Woody Allen, in the movie,Annie Hall, tells the story oftwo ladies staying at a hotel in the Catskills. One lady says to another,"The food in this place is terrible." The other replies,"Yes, and they give you so little ofit." Woody Allen com­ments:"life is like that. At times, it's pretty bad, but it's disappointing how little you get ofit." 
Managers have a right to make their decisions to change. Darby O'Gill II has lost his right to have a place named after him. It's my fault that he didn't get out much at night to go over there. When I break the news to him, I'll be thinking on his behalf: "It wasn't much ofan oppor­tunity to become immortal, but how quickly this little honor has passed me by." 
Rev. Robert Griffin is University Chaplain and resides in Pasquerilla West. 
•THEATRE 
The Elkhart Civic Theatre does its final run of"Romantic Com­
edy" this weekend, so ifyou want to see this play aboutplaywrites on 
stage (it is scheduled to be released soon as a movie starring Dudley 
Moore), be at Bristol Opera House, tonight or tomorrow night at 
8:15p.m. 
•DANCE An informal dance sponsored by the five halls ofSt. Mary's is scheduled for Saturday night at SMC's Haggar College Center, from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. Admission is free for Notre Dame students, and St. Mary's students are the hostesses at S 1 apiece (afree special drink is included). 
•MUSIC 
The Notre Dame Department ofMusic is starting offits season of concerts with the "Chicago Pro Musica," a chamber music en~mble comprising nine solo players from the ChicagoSymphonyOrchestra and pianist/composer Easley Blackwood. The program, sponsored by University Artist Series, consists ofseveral well-known twentieth century pieces, and begins at 8:15p.m. Sunday in the Annenburg Auditorium ofthe Snite Museum. Admission is free for members of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community. 
•ART 
Atraveling exhibition ofstudentworks from the National Associa­
tion ofSchools ofArt and Design is on display in the galleries ofthe 
Moreau Fine Arts Building, and will continue through October 14. 
The Snite Museum continues its exhibition of"Religious Narrative 
in 16th Century Rome," on display in the Print, Drawing and 
Photograpy Gallery. 
•MOVIES 
Tonight the Engineering Auditorium houses "The African Queen," the 1951 classic starring Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn, about an alcoholic skipper and a prim spinster lady boating down a tropical river. The movie is sponsored by the Notre Dame Cfiorale ahd begins at 7, 9 and 11 p.m. Admission is, ofcourse, 
n. 
"LeBeau Marriage," a 1982 French film, shows in the Annenburg at 7:30p.m., also tonight, for $2. 
Athird film for the weekend is "Heaven's Heroes," based on a true story oftwo dedicated police officers. The picture is sponsored by the Campus Bible Fellowship and begins at 7 tonight in the Ar· chitecture Building auditorium. Admission is free. 
•NAZZ 
TonightJim Corrigan performs at the Nazz from 9:30 on, with an open stage to follow. Nothing is scheduled for Saturday night due to the Miami game. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
This weekend is Senior Weekend, with the first annual Senior In· formal! For those who have not bought tickets yet, you can still par· ticipate by joining the Saturday Night Life Dinner. It takes place on the eleventh floor ofthe Hotel Continental in Chicago, and tickets can be bought at the door for SS. Afterward there will be a football fiesta at the same place, where big screen TVs, a OJ, and beverages for 50 cents will add up to a great time. 
TheJunior Class is planning a Hoosier Boosier Cruise for Saturday before the game -from 3 to 7 p.m. Tickets are on sale at LaFortune for SS. Also, you can see the game with the class at Shakey's Pizza large screen TV, starting at 7:15, for n. 

"African Queen," the 1951 Bogart/Hepburn classic, will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium tonight at 7, 9:15 and 11:30. 
The Observer Friday, September 23, 1983-page 12 
... Base 
continued/rom page 16 
Hudson, 8-7, walked four and 
struck out four in completing his 
third game of the season. 
The Phillies won the opener as 
Mike Schmidt, Ivan DeJesus and 
Ozzie Virgil homered while Morgan 
went 3-for-4. 
Montreal starter Charlie Lea, 15· 
10, was the loser. The win went to 
John Denny, 17-6. 
Chi. 3, Cal. 2 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -Tom 
Paciorek drove home Carlton Fisk 
from third with a groundout in the 
eighth inning to lift the Chicago 
White Sox over the California 
Angels 3-2 last night. 
Jcrry Koosman, 11-7, scattered 
six hits through seven innings to 
gain the victory with relief help 
from Salome Barojas, who picked 
up his 13th save. 
Fisk singled with one out in the 
Chicago eighth and moved to third 
on a double by Harold Baines. 
After an intentior.al walk to Greg 
Walker, Fisk scored as Paciorek 
bounced into a force play. 
Ken Forsch, 11-12, lost his fifth 
straight decision despite going the 
route for the II th time. 
After Ellis Valentine gave the 
Angels a 1-0 lead with a solo 
homer, his 12th, in the first, the 
White Sox struck back with a pair 
of towering homers in the fourth. 
Walker led off with his ninth 
and, an out later, Ron Kittle slam­
med his 34th. It left Kittle three shy 
of the American League record for 
a rookie, 37 by AI Rosen in 1950. 
Brian Downing l<;d off the 
California sixth with his 17th 
homer to tie the score at 2-2. 


Field hockey defeats Chicago 
The Notre Dame field hockey team made it three wins in a row yesterday afternoon as it crushed the University of Chicago, 6-0, at Notre Dame. 
Senior Clare Henry was the star of the game, scoring three of the six goals and increasing her career total to 43 goals, a school record. She broke the record that was held by 1983 graduate Kathy Ray last Friday in Notre Dame's 14-1 rout of Adrian College. 
Henry was joined in the scoring column by Libby Mohrman who scored two goals and Melissa Som­mer who tallied one. 
The Irish will hit the road this weekend to compete in the Sauk Valley Tournament. The next home game will be on October 9 against St. Louis. 
Beyond our control 
Due to mechanical mal­functions, The Observer was unable to Include the Clas­alfteds section of today's paper. We regret any Inconvenience this may have caused to our customers. Unless otherwise notified, The Observer will run these ads In Monday's edition. 
!A 
~ 
~•

PARMERLEE DETECTIVE AGENCY 
MR. C. T. PARMERLEE 
Pnvat* DrtrC'tiu' 

115 S Scott Street. Apt A South Bend. IN 46601 (219) 288·6621 
Reminder. • • The LUCK 0' THE IRISH 
Competition CQIQr Guard 
Practice Sunday 9:30 AM at Stepan Center Newcomers welcome -No experience necessary Call Bill at 1392for information 

Take ChargeAt22. 
In most jobs, at 22 
care of sophisticated 
you're near the bottom equipment worth 
of the ladder. millions of dollars. 
In the Navy, at It's a bigger chal­22 you can be a leader. lenge and a lot more After just 16 weeks responsibility than of leadership training, most corporations give you're an officer. You'll you at 22. The rewards have the kind of job are bigger, too. There's your education and training prepared a comprehensive package of benefits, you for, and the decision-making au­including special duty pay. The starting thority you need to make the most of it. salary is $17,000-more than most com­
As a college graduate and officer panies would pay you right out of college. candidate, your Navy training is geared After four years, with regular promo­to making you a leader. There is no boot tions and pay increases, your salary will camp. Instead, you receive professional have increased to as much as $31,000. training to help you build the technical As a Navy officer, you grow, through and management skills you'll need as a new challenges, new tests of your skills, Navy officer. and new opportunities
r ;.;V~;;O;;U~T;-----;;;;1
This training is to advance your edu­
I 
INFORMATION CENTER 
I 

designed to instill P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 cation, including the 
D I'm ready to take charge. Thll me more about
confidence by first­I I possibility of attending
theNavy'sofficerprograms. (fl)G)
hand experience. You graduate school while 
Nam~--~----~~~----~--­
First 1Plea.e Print) Latt
learn by doing. On I 1I you're in the Navy. 
Address Apt. 11----­
1
your first sea tour, Don't just take a
1 City State Zip...__ I you're responsible for I Age___tCollege/University job. Become a Navy
I

managing the work of :j:Year in College tOP"------officer, and take charge. up to 30 men and the 1.oi.Major/Minor'---------------------I Even at 22. 
I Phone Number 
!Area Code) Beat Time to Call 
I 

I 
Thla ia for pneral recruitment information. You do not have to fur-
I 

k~-!w~~~e 0!!~e~~'g.::'h!f;"to~'::~1~e~~eeki:d:' o\hN~;r:;:~ 
L 
tiona for which you qualify. 




-----------J 
NavyOfficers GetResponsibilityFast. 

The Observer Friday, September 23, 1983 page 13 
NFL

Tired of Political Apathy on Campus? Get Involved in the 
/:ieptember 2 3 

Standings

LeBeau Marriage !1982, FrancP Directed by Eric Rohmer tn French with English S.JtJL:•-c·;. ;okjf, 110 m1n 
Democratic Process 

Come to the General 0 rganizational 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUEThe subtle wit and compassionate ·r .. :., • ;~l ·~rn~"r arl.' dP.Ii;,Jhtfully 

NATIONAL CONFERENCEdisplayed in this tale cf a NL; ~ ar. ~ ·, oe 1t "'no cJt;.':tdt•:o, ,, 1.; ! 1r.e tt> t)l~ 

EAST w L T Pet. PF PA
Meeting of the 

mamed· her impractic.11 d·oic.e of a mate ;_,a hannih• Q''" .r f.<'!~·.! 
Dallas 3 0 01.000 93 60


. Annenb~rg Aud.,SniteMuseum AC12iooion


Student Lobby Commission 
of the N D Student Government Sunday, September 25 at 4:00 in the Student Offices Second Floor LaFortune 

A tradition of teamwork. 
Notre Dame's heritage of football greatness began before Rockne. It will last beyond Faust. Because it is built on discipline, cooperation, self­sacrifice-qualities that blend individual skill and spirit into fighting, ~nningteams. 
Teamwork always has been important in Michiana. Through the years, Michiana people have proven their willingness to put aside their differences, to wqrk together to make their commun­ities alive with economic, education, cultural and spiritual opportunity. 
We at 1st Source Bank are proud to be part of the Michiana · team. We're delighted that we have been able to play a role in a continuing regional effort to revitalize the economy through local business ownership. 
Of course, we know the game is not over. But we also think the time is right to celebrate the Notre Dame/Michiana tradition of teamwork. So we are pre­senting two very special television programs-"Wake Up the Echoes" and "Building with Our Vision." 
"Wake Up the Echoes" is the spine-tingling history of Notre Dame football. "Building with Our Vision" tells the bright story of Michiana yesterday, today and tomorrow. Thanks to the team­work of the staff at WNDU-TV, the two programs will be shown without commercial interruption starting at 3:30 P.M. SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, ON CHANNEL 16. 
We urge you to tune in. We know you'II be entertained "', ·~ 
Philadelphia 2 1 0 .667 48 50 Washington 2 1 0 667 60 56

'----1.-()~II t(3 tilr.._.............,. 
N.Y. Giants 1 2 0 .333 35 57

...... .....
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~..-.~ 

Friday& Saturday 

Special Irish Hurricane Drink 
Come Watch Notre Dame tame the Hurricanes! 
Friday Saturday 9:30-2:00 7:30-2:00 
St. Lo~is  0  3  0 .000  61  104  
CENTRAL  
3reen Bay  2  1  0 .667  89  87  
Minnesota Chicago  2 1, 2  0 .667 0 .333  63 65  85 64  
Detroit  1  2  0 .333  51  61  
Tampa Bay  0  3  0 .000  26  47  
WEST  
Attanta  2  1  0 .667  63  47  
LA Rams  2  1  0 .667  70  60  
New Orleans San Francisco  2 2  1 0 .667, 0 .667  89 78 107 66  

AMERICAN CONFERENCE EAST L T Pet. PF PA 
Buffalo w 2 , 0 .667 38 41 Miam1 2 , 0 .667 60 51 Baltimore 1 2 0 .333 62 68 New England 1 2 0 .333 70 76 
N.Y. Jets 1 2 0 .333 64 69 
CENTRAL Cleveland 2 , 0 .667 69 60 Pittsburgh 2 1 0 .667 75 63 Cincinnati 0 3 0 .000 23 47 Houston 0 3 0 .000 72 101 
WEST LA. Raiders 3 0 01.000 67 30
,
Denver 2 0 .667 41 33
,
Seattle 2 0 .667 64 58 KansasCrty 1 2 0 .333 43 57 San Diego 1 2 0 .333 77 89 

Enter our Back-to-School Contest by November 1, 1983 and you'll have ~ chance to win your very own Gieger Classic Jacket. Prizes will be awarded to the best entry from each College or University. 
Choose from 2 categories: Fill out an entry form today at 
1. 
Describe your thoughts on experi­ences with the benefits and advan­tages of a GEIGER CLASSIC, or 

2. 
Compose a newspaper or radio adver­


Milady Shop

tisement which highlights the advan­
'if: 1270 Scottsdale
tages and benefits of a GEIGER 
~-, 

CLASSIC. 
and-most important-·of. all-we ~'i, ::~\'Pi. 

.;.''' ... :!t~:.: :: ..~~ 
~·. .
hope you'D beinspire,d'by whaf"i'· .·• .-~~\.{, 

teamwork can accomplish for all of us. GEIGER OF AUSTRIA INC. 

GEIGEFi 
~source ~Bank 

l_____________________________M-~n-lh_'"_FD_I_C_____
, 


The Observer Friday, September 23, 1983-page 14 

Buy a Rib Tip & Chicken Dinner at Regular Price and get the Second at 1f2 Price Must Remit Coupon 

ea~eee't~ted 
adaett /ite6~a t rld.u4e? 

You. c.an. take. an. -<.n.teJr.e.-6t an.d pttO mote. tte.-6 po n.,o.. -<-b.te. dJr.-<.n.rl-<.n.g de. c.-<.-6-<. on.-6 at No ttte. Dame.. 
BJr.-<.n.g you.Jr. ·-<-de. a-6 to t h-<.-6 ottgan.-<.zat-<.on.a.t me.e.t-<.n.g. 
LLtt.te. The.attte., LaFor..tu.n.e. 

The Far Side~ 
"far out" humor is really IN! 
... now available ln book form for only $3.95. 

Mail to: Th~ Far Sid~ Book 
c/o Notre DlUile Q!2uJ:uL 
ADdrewa uad llcMeeL Inc. 
4400 Johnson Drive 
Fairway. Ks. 66205 

Please send me __ copies 
of The .,.ar Side at $3.95 per 
copy postage paid. Enclosed Is 
___. Make check payable 
to Andrews and McMeel, Inc. 
0 Check 0 Mo,.y O.der 0 VISA 
0 Maar.. CP>Ofgel Malle• Cord 
llam•--------­
Adelfell 
Clly---------­
Slai•----ZIP----
CrecJrl COICIII 
$1g001Uit OS Of1 Cff(JII COfd 
The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your Boommate Headquarters 
/  Y ~,  7-'i  Stay on campus and  
{~~~">­)._t: ·  save $$$by letting us take care of your 
\?  flower needs  
...  -­ 0  
~0 -~-­ Dial M-U-M-5 (6867)  
v  to place an order  

/ . :::-., ...-"' 

Located off the Razz in the basement of LaFortune Hours: 12:30·5:30 

Hickory Smoked Ribs  Complete Carry Out-Phone Ahead  
Fried Chicken  
Deliciously Thick Pizza  
1835 LWE, South Bend, ln.  
Phone: 288-8240  Not valid in combination with other coupons  
No cash value.  or specials  
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet  Expires Sept. 30, 1983.  
Granger, ln.  
Phone: 277-3143  




., 
Friday, September 23, 1983-page 15



Weekend 
Bloom County 

r-------.....,
I Hr+./£ ANOTl-ER IN1ltM-n:: SU.Rff 10 5HAP£ WtTH 'tVU, 
W6U-, 

MR. V'AU-Afl. R£M~MI3€R 
I £XP£C10RATW ,.,1£N W~ AU. WOO UP 
IN10 11-1£ wvaY. 11-IOVSAND 151.ANV. 



Fate 

If'S JOHN -HCS GOtfLJ(r
WHAf'S TH£ MATTER 7 
THf(Ov.C.H WtrHOKAWAI-5. 
!T HAS 8££N OVER ll 
WfEI< 5tNC[ TH[ PANTY 


Mellish 
HI SANDY. IS AlF HI DONALD. ALF ~ 
I Tl-/i!JK, HE~ TAKING IT A AROUND? IN TH~ BAT~RoDI-\ 
OH , THATS RIGHT. I'D 
BIT FAll, ••• I MEAN, L~5T 


TA.tDA~
fORGOTTEN HE WAS

PRE.PARING FoR i-llS 
NIGHT I MENTION~!> AFFIRN!­
INVO~VED WIHI THAT 

fiRST M£EfiM'j AS 
ATIVf AtTl ON AND Wt SPENT 
.., woN~Er<. HE ..~vE.P. BoRRow~;
THI~ YEAR.·.

~RESIDENT oF THE. 
MY Sr£vt ~AWIE.NU. Al!i'UMS ... ) T~f BALCON'f 
AN HO"I\ TRYING TO CoAX HIJ'I1 
' 
,,,,_ 
' 
tLDSf YOI.IR EYfS f.VfP-yorJE 0 


ACROSS 34 Container 1 Amorphous for clink· lump ers 5 Spectral 35 Possessive


The Daily Crossword 
10 Infatuated 36 Turmeric 14 Branches 37 Chessman 15 Lacuna 38 Ankle bones 16 Cupid 40 Crosby 17 Oh, woe! 41 Scoreboard 18 Montana's item 
flower 42 Soli 20 "-Rae" 43 Without 22 Modern: harmony 
pref. 45 Factor 23 River in 47 College 

France founder 24 Zeal 48 Single 26 Draft org. 49 Door 27 Racetrack fasteners 
gate 50 Type size 30 -State 53 River isle (Utah) 54 Scatter 

mvoo KNOW 
WHAT ·~XPfCTOAATE\7' Mf.AN~ 1 NO. 



Berke Breathed 

Photius 
8£FOKE YOU KNOW II You 'f?f sri?UA/4 our of( 
SuPPOt.f JrOCK.INC,S. 
I 

Dave and Dave 
58 Flowerof 19 Scratches 
Texas out 61 Seep 21 Pavarotti 62 Matador's song 
foe 25 Tooth stuff 63 Pola of the 26 Soap operas 
silents 27 Wilkes-­64 Eroded 28 "Thou art 65 Amo,-, -in bliss" 
a mat 29 French 66 Lowcards river 67 Neighbor 30 Trolley's 
of Minn. successor 31 "Sea Gull" DOWN character 1 Breakfast 32 Mercenary food 33 Erne 2 French 35 Table scrap composer 39 Skill 3 Sharif the 40 Village in actor Nebraska 4 City on the 42 Starin 
Missouri Cygnus 5 Recede 44 Hints 6 PoetWylle 46 Stopovers 7 Word with 47 Diner 
first or 49 Dejlend second 50-Eban 8 Division 51 Morose word 52 German 
9 Also, old school hall style 53 Maleant 10 Tastelessly 55 Cross showy 56 Pound of 11 Otis of poetry basebalt 57 Calendar 12 Terrorist division of sorts 59 Can. prov. 13 Comic 60 Poetic Johnson contraction 

Campus 
Friday, Sept. 23 
•4:30 
p.m. Chemistry Seminar, "Solubilization of Enzymes and Nucleic Acids in Apolar· Solvents," Pro[ P. L. Luisi, 158-A Stepan Chemistry Hall 

•7:00 
p.m. · N.D. Gaming Club Meeting 204 O'Shaughnessey 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "African Queen," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Chorale Club, SI 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "LeBeau Marriage," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Soccer, ND Men vs. University of Ken· tucky, Cartier Field 


Saturday, Sept. 24 
•8 
a.m. -Test, Educational Service Examination, Engineering Auditorium 

•I 
p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs. Bethel College, Jake Kline Field 

•4 
p.m. -Cross Country, Notre Dame Golf Course 

•8 
p.m. -Football, Notre Dame vs. Miami, Na­tionally Televised on CBS, At the Orange Bowl 


Sunday, Sept. 25 
•10:30 
a.m. -Graduate Student Mass, Wilson Commons 

•11 
a.m.-Soccer, ND Women's Soccer Club vs. Indiana U., Alumni Field 

•1 
p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs. Valparaiso, Jake Kline Field 

•2 
p.m.-Soccer, ND Men vs. Indiana University, Alumni Field 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, Chicago Pro Musica, 20th Century Music Ensemble, Annenberg Auditorium 



TV Tonight 
7:30p.m. :Z8 Webster 34 Wall Street Week 8p.m. 16 For Love and Honor :z:z Special Movie Presentation: "'Blazing Saddles"' :Z8 Lottery 
34 Prime Rate 8:30p.m. 34 Moneymakers II 
._-4.~,:.,. 


Far Side · ··.'\. d 
-_, 
7-Chrofllcfe Fealures tQ8J 
With Roger out of the way, it was Sidney's big chance. 



~~~------ROL'Li"NG-STONE$1 
IN Chatauqua 
I 
"Charlie is my Darling" & 


"Stones in the Park., Tues., Sept.27 .1_ · ot7,9, 11 
Ls&.u&, ...-~ ·--:(: .::: ·! 

.'llldmt Union 
PRINTING SERVICE 
New· Replacing Campus Press Bring Camera-ready poster art 
to 

S.U. Record Store 
:our posters and tabfe 'tents 

Friday, September 23, 1983 -page 16 


Irish look ahead to powerful Hoosiers 
ByALGNOZA Kevin Lovejoy's consecutive games Sports Writer scoring record. Lovejoy set the 
For the record, Notre Dame beat record of scoring in six straight St. Joseph's on Tuesday night 7-0 games back in 1979. in college soccer action. The goal "We outclassed Kentucky last scorers, in order of appearance, year," Harkenrider said. "We were were Mark Luetkehans, Tom up 3-0, but then they got two penal­Daley, Ken Harkenrider, Joe ty kicks to make it look close. Howe, Bill Beasley, Rob Snyder 
"A team like Indiana has playersand Ted Schwartz. Ho hum, one with outstanding individual skills. 
more blowout of another outclass­The main thing they try to do on of­ed victim. 



fense is to take the ball down 
one This Sunday, however, things side of the field, draw all the will change drastically. Like dating 
defenders to the ball, and then Sandy Duncan one night and ball one of
cross the to the Morgan Fairchild the next, the 
halfbacks cutting in from the Irish will take on perennial 
weakside." 
powerhouse Indiana on Alumni 
On the injury front there is goodField after tuning up the previous 
news and bad news. The good news two weeks with teams like 
is that the scoring duo of SnyderValparaiso and St. Francis. 
and Richard Hertegen should be So far this year Notre Dame has 
healthy and intact for the weekend. rolled to a 6-1 record, outscoring its news is that Chuck and
The bad 
opponents by a count of 39 to 1. 
Dave Bidinger will be keeping each It's beginning to get a bit out of 
other company on the disabled list. 

Tom Daley (5) and his Irish teammates have this weekend when Kentucky and Indiana visit 
hand. 
They are survived by brother Mark 

been chewing up some of their weaker comp­Notre Dame. AI Gnoza previews the Weekend at 
Notre Dame will have one more who is, knock on wood, still
etition this year. Things will get much tougher right. 
game before Sunday's test, that be­healthy as of press time. 
ing tonight's scuffle with Kentucky on Cartier Field. But Kentucky is To beat Indiana, Notre Dame

Major League roundup 
to Indiana what Don Knotts is to must capitalize on its scoring op­Mr. T. purtunities, something which it did For the Notre Dame seniors the not do in last year's 4-0 loss at



Phils sweep Expos, increase lead 
Indiana game is the game. Just ask Bloomington. forward Ken Harkenrider. "I didn't think that score gave the 

ATLANTA (AP) Dan East race, cutting Baltimore's lead doubled three times to give true story of the game," noted
"I've already conceded two days

Driessen's two-run homer in the to seven-and-a-half games. The Philadelphia a 9-7 victory in t!1e of classes if we beat them," he Harkenrider. "We had some goodsixth inning last night gave the Cin· Orioles's "magic number" for clin­first game of the doubleheader. 
laughed. "WE've all been looking chances but just couldn't put it cinnati Reds a 6-4 triumph over ching the division title remained at In the nightcap, the Phillies 
forward to this challenge all home." 

slumping Atlanta and further three with 10 games to go. snapped a scoreless game in the over Indiana would notseason. We've been gammg A win 
damaged the Braves' pennant Enos Cabell started the lOth with fifth inning on successive singles by 
momentum these past few weeks, only make Notre Dame's season hopes. a single off Baltimore reliever Sam­Greg Gross, Bo Diaz, and Ivan De­
hopefully preparing us for what's but would also put them in a strongSecond-place Atlanta now trails my Stewart, 9-4, and took second Jesus againstt starter Steve Rogers, 
going to be a very tough game." position to receive a post-seasonLos Angeles, which was idle, by on a wild pitch. Stewart got Chet 17-11. 
Harkenrider has been gaining playoff bid. After losing the pastfour-and-a-half games in the Na­Lemon on a popup and walked momentum himself. He needs a five years in a row to the Hoosiers, 
See BASE, page 12 
tional League West. The Braves, Rick Leach before giving way to goal in tonight's game to break the time may be ripe for an upset.
who have II games remaining, and Dan Morosiello, the fifth Los Angeles, with 10 left, begin a Baltimore pitcher. Morosiello got three-game series tonight in Atlan­pinch-hitter Lynn Jones on a pop ta. foul before Whitaker cracked a 


The biggest game of Faust era
The Braves have won only two of single down the left field line to their last nine games. drive in the winning run. 1 Cincinnati trailed 4-3 in the sixth Doug Bair,6-3, worked the final! Miami vs. Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl. 
when Dave Concepcion led off with three innings for Detroit, allowing . 
No, we're not in a bowl game -at least not yet Mike Sullivan ~ a single off Atlanta starter Ken just two hits, to earn the victory. 
anyway -but you'd never know it if you were down in 
Dayley, 4-7. Nick Esasky forced 

f!:l

South Florida this weekend. · Sports Editorout Concepcion but Driessen Many people connected with the affair are calling ------------------------~~·~
Min. 2. K.C. 1 

followed with a drive over the right 
this the biggest football game since the 1979 Super
field wall for his 12th home run. 
A~ 

Bowl. For the City of Miami, it may be the most im­
The Reds scored again in the eigth KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­portant game ever, as the national television coverage despite the records of the past couple of years. Notwhen Concepcion doubled and Kent Hrbek and Dave Engle each is giving the city leaders a chance to sell a city that has only will it make it easier to recruit players who wantEsasky singled. drove in a run and relief ace Ron not exactly impressed people of late. to play for a winner, but it also might get the alumni Jeff Russell, 4-3, allowed six hits Davis posted his 29th save as the On the agenda for the "Classic College Football and fans off the team's back. Notre Dame footballover six innings. Tom Hume pitch­Minnesota Twins edged the Kansas Weekend" are such events as the Super Suds Olym­has been advertised as "an American tradition." Soed the final inning for his ninth City Royals 2-llast night. 
piad, concerts, cocktail parties, pool parties, and far that tradition has been largely a winning one, but a save. The Twins scored both runs in parades. It will be capped off with the football game loss to Miami, coming on the heels of two mediocrethe fourth against Eric Rasmussen, which will feature one o.f the most extravagant seasons, may cause people to change their view on theSt. L. 3. N.Y. 2 3-6. Gary Ward led off with a halftime shows ever at a college football game. tradition.
single and came home on Hrbek's Obviously, the people of Miami want to silence Add these two reasons up and you can understandST. LOUIS (AP)-Rookie Danny triple. Hrbek then trotted home those critics who think of the city as nothing more why this game may mark the turning point in GerryCox pitched eight shutout innings, with the second run when Engle than a crime-ridden hole. Faust's career. Right now, the alumni are blamingleading the St. Louis Cardinals to a singled. 

However, there are some people who are not from him for the team's failure over the last few years, and3-2 triumph over the New York Daryl Motley led off the Royals' Miami that also would like to silence their critics, the students, while they think he's a great credit as aMets last night. fifth with his second home run. 
redeem themselves, and show their fans that things person, are beginning to get impatient with his resulCox, 3-5, took a five-hitter into Winner Pete Filson, 3-1, scat­have changed. on the field. 
the ninth, but left after Darryl tered nine hits, struck out three and They are the football players who will be running Tomorrow, with the entire country watching himStrawberry led off with a single and walked three before needing relief out into the festivities with the glittering gold helmets. standing on the sidelines, Faust has his chance to show scored on George Foster's double. help in the eighth from Davis, who Recently, they haven't had the same glitter, but an everyone that he can win. Granted that he cannot ex­Reliever Bruce Sutter allowed pinch got the last four outs. 
outstanding performance tomorrow night will go a ecute the plays for his players, but, if he can get hishitter Keith Hernandez's RBI single long way in restoring that glitter. team to control Miami on both offense and defense,before getting his 20th save. 
The reason is simple. Tomorrow's game is the most he will get some much-needed praise. 
St. Louis scored in the fourth PhU. 9-7. Mon. 7·1 important game in the last three years for Notre Dame A loss would be disastrous as it would probablyagainst rookie Ron Darling, 0-3, as football, and, specifically, for Gerry Faust. take the heart out of a large part of the student body.
Andy Van Slyke singled with two MONTREAL (AP) -Rookie Why is this game so important? Faust's greatest support has always come from theouts and went to third on David Charles Hudson fired a four-hitter First, there is the effect that the Michigan State loss students and he can ill afford to lose their confidence. 
Greens single. Van Slyke scored and Len Matuszek drove in two had on the student body. The students are just about Ifthere was ever a game that Notre Dame had to beeasily on a double steal when cat­runs as the surging Philadelphia ready to kiss this season off. They feel betrayed pumped up for, this is it. It has to face a team thatcher Mike Fitzgerald threw off Phillies defeated the Montreal Ex­because they have been told for more than two years will be sky high and a crowd that will be very loud intarget to second base. pos 7-1 to complete a sweep of a that the team is so talented, but the actual perfor­its support of the home team. 
twi-night doubleheader yesterday. 

mances on the field have not shown it. "This will be However, that won't be as bad as what they willThe Phillies have now won seven
Det. 5. Bal. 4 

the year," has become annoying. After only two face if they return to South Bend as losers.
straight games and lead the Na­games, the students see the same thing happening So, now is the time for the Notre Dame players toDETROIT (AP) Lou tional League East by three games again. show what they are made of. Tomorrow's game willWhitaker's fourth hit of the game, over Pittsburgh. Montreal, which While a win over the Hurricanes would not exactly be the bowl game that they have missed the past twoa two-out single in the lOth inning, could have tied Philadelphia by prove that this year's team is on its way to a great seasons -except more important. There is absolutelydrove in the winning run as the sweeping the Phillies, fell to four season, it would restore, at least for a while, the no reason that they should come out flat like they did Detroit Tigers defeated the games back. All three contenders students' confidence in the team and in Gerry Faust. against Michigan State. 

Baltimore Orioles 5-4 last night. have nine games remaining. 
The second reason is that the game is on national We asked the question earlier in the week, "Will the The Tigers kept their flickering Joe Lefebvre smacked a bases­television. Now is Notre Dame's chance to show the real Irish please stand up?" After tomorrow, wehopes alive in the American League loaded triple and Joe Morgan nation that it still has a powerful football program, should know who the real Irish are. 






