--------------~----------------------------------~··;--~.. 
• • • Endorsements -page 6 
\ 

VOL. XVII, NO. 90 the independent ~tudent nn\ ~paper ~lT\ ing notre Jame and saint mary's MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1983 
Unilateral freeze 
Campus groups debate f~eeze 
By CATHY PAX freeze lies with the American Coalition's failure to explain the dif­Campus Campaign Reporter people," Blandford said. "W'e, in a ference between a unilateral and democracy, can control what our bilateral freeze. If the United States 
A unilateral freeze was described government does." were to implement a unilateral as irresponsible by the College "We make this tlrst step as a chal­freeze, the Soviet Cnion would not Republicans, and as a reversible step lenge," said Blandford. "If the Soviet be discouraged from aggressive ac­toward mutual disarmament by the Union does not respond by initiating tion, such as in their invasion of At~ Two Campus Nuclear Freeze Coali­a freeze also, we should reconsider ganistan. tion at last night's Observer­our decision," he said. "If we are not strong enough to -sponsored debate. Mark Lynch, president of the Col­deter them, they will have no in­
John Blandford. of the Two lege Republicans, desc~ibes the centive to stay within their own bor­
Campus Freeze Coalition. urged stu­Soviet Union as "an aggressive na­ders." dents to vote for the unilateral tion," with a mission to rid the world Lynch argued that a bilateral freeze referendum as a "call upon of capitalism. In a unilateral freeze, freeze "is slower, but much safer our nation's leaders for change." He Lynch said, the Soviet Cnion would than any unilateral action." The expressed the belief that a unilateral gain an unfair strategic advantage. Soviet Union could develop new, 
freeze bv the l :nited States would "A good possibility that the stronger, and more accurate spur the.Sovkt linion to similar ac­Soviets will also freeze is not good weapons that could destroy our tion. "We can't simply wait for the enough. We are taking a chance with frozen retaliation system. said Soviet l'nion to make the t1rst our defense." Lynch said. Lynch. move," he said. The College Republicans are dis­
The current size of the American "The responsibility for initiating a satistled with the Campus Freeze 
nuclear arsenal is unimrortant. com­mented Lynch. in response to Blandford's argument that the C.S. has enough weaponry to retaliate.

Apathy, social space 
With Soviet technological advances, weapons would be developed that would destroy America's currently 

sufficient defense system, said Lynch. By DIANE MARIE DIRKERS students gathered in the Library 

concern candidates 
"Technology advances so quickly Campus Campaign Reporter Auditorium. 
that advances like these are pos­Salvador stressed .communication 
sible," said Lynch. as the major issue in her campaign. 
Blandford believes that the tech-Those who read student govern­proposing a newsletter to inform the ment articles like this one are in the students of "what's going on." "The See FREEZE, page 3 vast minority ofthe campus, accord­present publicity isn't working. The ing to the concensus opinion ofStu­problem is in communication. We dent Body President candidates can't rely on student government ar­SMCseniors Brian Callaghan, Liza Salvador, and ticles to inform students. Most stu­Tim Connolly. dents don't know what student At a forum last night, the can­government is all about, or what it is 

Platforms emphasize OC needs 
didates t1elded students' questions, doing," she said. 

addressing such topics as student Connolly felt that one ofthe major By ANNE MONASTYRSKI after-college decisions and continu­and Social Commissioner of 
apathy, the overall effectiveness of reasons for student apathy is that Campus Campaign Reporter ing Senior Service Week highlight McCandless Hall her sophomorestudent government, and the impor­"Many people are semi-informed. the platforms ofhoth tickets running year and of LeMans Hall this year.
Editor's note: The following is the 
tance of setting concrete, attainable Hanging posters as publicity is not for Senior Class Oftkers. Keenan was a member of Holy
first ofa three-part series describing
goals. the most effective way. We need to One ticket consists of: Caroline Cross Hall Council her sophomore
the candidates for Saint .Wary•'s
"So many Student Cnion activities get support of the halls through the Adornetto, President; Katie Keenan, year. Bott has been active as Regina
Class Officers. Tot/(~l''s segment
fail because a lot of people are apat­HPC. If the interest isn't aroused Vice President; Jackie Bolt. Hall Social Commissioner, member
profiles candidatesfor Senior Class
hetic. We've got to publish more in through the halls, then not enough Treasurer; and Kathy Jennings. of McCandless Hall Council. the
Officers. The series will continue
The Obserl'er, using letters and ads people will be informed." 
Secretary. Accounting Club, and a member of
tomorrow with the candidates for
-not just the student government When asked how his ticket stood 
On the other ticket are: Kathleen the yearbook staff:
junior Class Officers. 
articles that no one ever reads," apart from the others, Callaghan Murphy, President; Denise Drake, 

Jennings is Secretary of the Junior commented Callaghan to a Integration of oft·-campus stu­Vice President; Maggie Walsh, Class. "disappointingly small" group of 25 See SBP, page 4 
dents in class activities, education in Treasurer; and Beth Aisthorpe,
• 

J
Secretary. Both tickets want to establish a *Campus 
Father-Daughter Weekend during a

Hesburgh opposes 
Campaign '83
football weekend as a follow-up to 
Junior Mother-Daughter Weekend. Need for reform in student govern­Murphy and 'tler ticket stresses



Canons revise theologian authority 

ment is also a common concern. "enhanced growth" and class unity,By BOB VONDERHEIDE Theology, oppose the new canon. McBrien says the Campaigning with the slogan, running on the slogan, "All for one News Editor \ provision simplv "does not make sense in the United 
"Soon to he fourth down and inches and one lour all." States" where most of the 240 Catholic colleges func­
Editor's note: This is the first of a two-part series to go," Adornetto's ticket promotes As future alumnae, Murphy thinks examining parts ofthe revised Code ofCanon Law. tion without diocesan or governmental interference. unity with the senior class and other the senior class should work to Such a law did make sense· in 19th centurv Germany 
classes to make senior year become an "active part of the Catholic theologians will probably need permission where, according to McBrien, the state was assigning its 
~·memorable." alumnae." from their local bishop to teach university courses, "own people" to teach theology. and the Church began 
Oft~campus students should be in­Having had the opportunity to depending on the t1nal as un· requiring special permission tor the German teachers cluded in more class activities, said 
wording of the yet 

work this' year with all students as published revised Code ofCanon Law. · to serve in the name of the Church. 
Adornetto. "We can't forget them Student Body President, MurphyPope John Paul II signed the revised code of Church But what started as a guarantee against secular in­
even though they're off campus," "wants to work with the class now." 
laws Jan. 25, but American canon lawyers have only tluence "has turned around as a way to keep discipline she added. Murphy's platform is not specit1c.
reviewed rough drafts and are still unsure how specific inside the Church," McBrien said last week. In the Tired of "screw-your-Said Murphy, "By senior year,the new rule is outlined, if at all. process, says canon law professor Father John Lahey, a 

roommates," Adornetto said seniors people know what you've done." One later draft states that anyone at a Catholic col­rule meant for a particular situation has been applied 
"need something more." Having a In addition to her position as Stu­lege teaching theology -religious or layperson ­throughout the Church. senior talent exhibition would give dent Body President, Murphy was should receive a mandate from "competent ecclesiasti-There has been some speculation that the code might 

rec.ognition to students "gifted in Freshmen Council Chairperson and cal authority." require a canonical mandate rather than the mort: for­
music, art and writing," Adornetto Sophomore Class President. A similar re­
mal and intense canonical mission. Pontitkal faculties 
said. Drake was Sophomore Class· quirement has such as at Catholic Cniversity of America and some toAdornetto's ticket would likc Secretary and is Junior Class Presi­long .1pplied to seminaries have a canonical mission. 

see the mini-series "Life Beyond dent. the eight _Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, archbishop of Chicago, 
SMC," begun to help soon-to-be Walsh is Treasurer of student Ac­American also expressed concern when the proposed canon ap­
graduates get started on their tivities Planning Board for 1983. She schools with a peared in early drafts. Bernardin was one of three 
careers. The series would advise stu­is a Junior Board member and a St. "pontit1cal American members of the papal revision commission 
dents on establishing credit, job Louis Club Oftker. She was also a faculty," but never on a universal scale that would in­that revised the more than 2,000 canons of the 191 7 
tlnding and apartment hunting. Chairperson for An Tostal. clude Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. code into a I,752-canon code that will take effect Nov. 
Adornetto .believes that working Aisthorpe, Vice president of the American Catholics including Father Theodore Hes­27. 
her way "through the ranks" Junior class, was a member of the 
burgh, Cniversity president, and Father Richard qualities her to be president. She was Freshman and Sophomore Class
See LAW, page 3
McBrien. chairman of the Notre Dame Department of Chairperson of Freshman Council, Cabinet. 




----~------~---------­
.. 



ews Brie/§ 

Monday, February 7, 1983 -page 2 
Hy The Obsert•er and The Associated Press 
The annual abuse Dillon night took place last night as several hundred rowdy North Quad residents threw snow­balb at the hall, breaking several windows. Two Notre Dame Security squad cars intervened, pushing the group back. These cars were also attacked by snowballs from the students. The group then dispersed. Dillon Hall residents retaliated minutes later between Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls. Squad cars intervened again, breaking up the crowd. Later in the evening, Dillon students attacked Grace Hall. reportedly believing the Dillon Hall flag was in Grace. Grace residents drove the Dillon residents hack to their hall, and returned to Grace. "It was a real existential experience," Dave Sundry, one of the participants in the battle, noted. On their way hack, another charge took place by Dillon residents, and for the t1nal time, they were driven back. -The Observer 
In an addreSS tO the Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance last night. An:1 Clark. professor of Philosophy at Saint Mary's, appealed to students for an awareness of the nuclear freeze referen­dum which will appear on Thursday's ballot. Saint Mary's students may vote in their dorm Thursday from' a.m.-6 p.m. Students will also he voting on class officers and student body officers. The Board also discussed plans for McCandless Week, which starts Feb. 7. Ac­tivities are planned for each day to promote dorm unity and spirit. ­
The Obsert,er 
Douglas E. Tyler. assistant professor of art at Saint Mary's College, recently received a 198::1 Creative Artists grant from the Michigan Council of the Arts. A noted holographer whose works have been exhibited throughout the United States and Canada, Tyler will pursue the exploration of holographic media and their integra­tion mtu two large multi-panel artworks. A resident of Niles, .\1ich.. and a 19'0 graduate of Michigan State University, Tyler currently is directing the International Exhibition of Creative Holography at Saint Marv's Moreau Gallerv. The exhibit, which features the hologram~ of I ::I internatio~ally-known holographers, continues through Feb. 18. His holography works have been exhibited at the Museum ofHolography in New York City, the Open Space Gallery in Vancouver, British Columbia. and the Holos Gallery in San Fran­cisco. His work is included in the permanent collections of the Brooklyn Museum, the Smithsonian Institute and the Museum of Holography in New York City. -The Observer 
Faculty vehicles formerly permitted to park in 
the Old Fieldhouse area at Notre Dame have been reassigned to the A-1 lot at the rear of the Post Office. The overflow from this lot will he permitted to park in the B-1 lot west of the Stadium without changing window decals. Security officials warned that parking reserved for handicapped will be strictly enforced. Violators may have their cars towed at owner's expense. -The Observer 
. ' .
A coa1mmer s ctgarette ignited an undergroum 
explosion that killed I'5 workers and injured at least nine others on Cehu Island. the oftkial Philippine News Agency reported yester­day. Two of the victim~ died immediately, while I::I other~ died later in hospitab, the agency said. Nine workers were reported in serious condition from injuries suft.ered in the accident last Wednesday, it said. The blast occurred 200 feet deep in the mine shaft at Danao, ::ISO miles southeast of .'\!lanila. after a worker lighted a cigarette. the news agency said. It did not say what substance exploded. Coal mine shafts generally contain large amounts ofcoal dust and often contain mt:thane. both highlv explosive. -AP 
Two history professors at Indiana University­
South Bend have created a three-credit college course ha~ed on the sweeping World War II telcvision saga. "The Winds ofWar." Mill ions of Americans <tfe expected to he caught up in the seven-part ABC television mini-series which began last night. The program can "teach some history to people who might not take a history class," said Jll professor Patrick J. Furlog. Based on Herman Wouk's best· selling novel and scripted by Wouk, the television tllm chronicles the Henrv familv from March 19::19 to December 1941. While the family is tktion~l. the historical events are not. At least six colleges are u~ing the series as supplement to existing courses, according to ABC. "I think that what were doing here is different, using the televi­sion series as a basis ofa course." said Theodore Hengesbach, direc­tor ofextended programs at the university. "We can show them that history is more than a collection of facts and dates," said Furlong, who is teaching the course with Paul H. Scherer. -AP 
A fund for a cancer-stricken 2-year-old girl 
has grown to S 1 10,000, more than what the University of Minnesota Medical Center had said would be needed to begin treating her, her fa.nily says. The hospital had said it needed at least S100.000 hefore it could admit Rachel Escalabre. That was far more than her auto repairman father from Concord, Calif., could afford. But news of her plight last week inspired a flood of donations. Doctors says Rachel, who suffers from cancer ofthe nervous system. needs chemotherapy and a bone marrow transplant to survive. -AP 
Mostly cloudyand coldtoday. High m low to mid 20's. Clearing and cold tomorrow. Low 10 to IS. Becoming cloudy and not so calli tomorrow. High in upper 20's to low 30's. -AP 

Mr. Rombach, enlighten me 
C. Scott Rombach 
Director,PublicRelations 
Campbell Soup Company 
Camden. NJ 08101 
Dear Mr. Rombach, 

As we all know, the FLOC boycott referendum will be decided tomorrow. Be!t>re I cast my vote, I'd like to ask you some questions. 
I covered the boycott campaign three year~ ago, and have written about FLOC periodically since; I think I have a good idea of their position. But your company's stance. or rather the way that stance has been presented recently, puzzles me. 
My tirst question involves the debate that was to have taken place last week. In a Jan. 28 Obsen,er story yotJ are quoted as saying that "There just is not enough time for us to prepare someo·ne to come out." 
At the FLOC public forum last week, however. Dr. james McDonnell, director of student activities, said that he had offered to postpone the debate and vote until March or April. That seems like a fair offer. Why did you pass on it' 
In that same Observer story, you are quoted as saying "We have found in the past that tlw only people who show up at such debates are FLOC suppor­ters, and we do not want to give them such a forum." 

Mr. Rombach, you aren't giving the Notre Dame stu­dent body much credit. We spend our days studying arguments, positions, issues, and asking questions to gain better understanding. Don't you think it's unfair to argue that the audience, a group which has devoted a lot of time to objective study ofopposing views, would attend a debate already having made up their minds? We had a reporter at the forum, so you were assured of at least one objective student, and I believe he had some company. 
The rest of your p.r. campaign strikes me as, well, mysterious. 
·A stack ofletters with a Campbell Soup Company let­terhead, as well as a pile of "fiction/tact" statements mysteriously appeared in the dining halls, LaFortune student center and the residence halls over the weekend. Did you drop those olfyoursdf, or have you solicited volunteers on campus? 
Also. The Obsert,er received an information packet 
from your company through Dr. McDonnell. Included 
in that packet was an editorialt·ntitlcd "l:nion organizer 
is giving Campbell Soup a had rap," a piece that coun-
The Observer 
"A chance to , •• , " 

/Jesign l:'tfitru ................... J.P. Kt:ye~-A.A. f)esign Assistant Pt:tt:"husine~!'t a~ u~ual" 
\'('Juu: 
Hrigt:tle"Turn on the red light"(roukt 7)'/Jeseller.<.. .... ................. Hc)\):ic, BWil .'Veu•s Editor........................................ Da\'l' Copr Editor ................................ Kalil\· Features f.t~)'Oill .. ..!'-tarah"Hnt·k 
llow.,<.:"Hamihon Editorials f.t~l'rJul ............................ Uhhv 
.\jmrts CofJJ' l:'ditor. .................... Ed"~oul\1an"Konrad~ S,HC /Jay Editor.. ..Lacy" I.e! il ~:o 
again"l 'mkrall Typists.. . Tari Brown 
PhotogrujJher. ....................................... Pert-
Proofretuler.............................. ray Chark·~ G'uest AfJfJearann•s ................ ......... Timho, gho'1 ofgig'( future). Hvan 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 tS 
publiShed Monday through Frtday and 
on home football Saturdays ex,ept 
durtng exam and vC~cat•on pertod5 The 
Observer <S published by the students 
of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Cui 
lege Subscnpttons may be purchased 
tor 525 per year 1S1 5 per serneoter) by 
wr1t1ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 
Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 

The Observer IS a me•nber of The 
Associated Press All reproduct,.,n 
ngnts are reserved 

Second class postage patd rlt NotrE: 
Dame lnd1ana 46556 

\,j l'kl I rHI \·U'\1 ll·JI,f'\ 
C()IIVHIJNIICAIJII()N ~----O JlrUcAIJii(l[ ~\t()~I()A\'/ lfllll~\ ~1~1~/IIE~ 11 
Februa:v 1 
The Navigator 11 9241 

Buster Keaton Donald Cr•SP 8/W 62 mtn Th!S 1nven11ve comedy dtrected oy 8\.tster Kea:on and veteran com1c actor Donald C11sp nas Keaton and h<S Q<fllr•end as uooer-class tw••,s 
cast adr1ft on a g1a'l! ocean 11ner 

Annen berg Aud.,SniteMuseum Ad mission 
..........---lrt() ~ /lt(7 ltllr__..,;$_Z_.0-0 ,., 

~"'ttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii181111111111111111111111111111111111111111HIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII':, 
. i 
I mOCK STOCK mARKET I 
i : s : 
. i 


Tim Vercellotti 
Q 

News Editor • • ------------------------,~~\ -­
Inside Monday ' ­
·.......,_ ' 

tered FLOC's argument. The editorial, published in the April 29, 1982 Clet•eland Plain Dealer. had no author's name attached to it, leading one to conclude that the piece was a The Plain Dealer's official stance on the farmworkers' issue. 
The O!Jser11er received another copy of the editorial. only this time there was an author's name attached to it, that of Roger Dean Duncan. An editor's note at the end of the piece revealed that Duncan is director of public relations for Campbell Soup Company. (Your predeces­
sor, I presume?) Evidently. Duncan's name and the editor's note were deleted from our copy. Mr. Rom­bach, far he it from me to point a t1nger. but were you, or someone from your office, trying to mislead us? 

In addition, I am curious why you han· noi addressed the student body your~df. If you don't want to engage in a debate, tine. But you could still present your side to the students here. Your letter in last Friday's Obsen1er clearly outlined your company's postion, but letters don't ~ _ permit the readers to ask any 12 ~ questions. Why won't you 
outline Campbell's position verbally, before the Notre Dame student body, so that we may pose some quc:Stions about it? -Is it because the one time you presented the Campbell's position in per­son, before the Hall President's Council, the HPC voted in favor of FLOC? 
Mr. Rombach. I have spoken to you twice over the phone. You sound like a very reasonable man. Please. enlighten me. What is going on? Why all the mystery? 
During our brief conversations I have stressed that The Obsert•er news department wants to present both sides clearly and objectively. I believe we have thus tar. and I can assure you that we will continue to do so in our coverage of the referendum tomorrow. 
In the meantime, if you can answer some of my ques­tions. I'd certainly appreciate it. 
Sincere!\·. Tim \'erccllotti 


The Observer Monday, February 7, 1983-page 3 

"Propaganda," a South Bend punk band, mance tl'ith a r•erbal bmTttge callingfor anarchy rocked tbe .Vazz Friday el'ening as part of New and disestablishment ofthe Reagan Administra­Wm•e .Vigbt. The group enhanced its loud perfor-tion. (photo by Pete Laches) 
'About over' 


Tests dismiss food poisoning 
By ANNE POSEGA 
Neu•sStaff 
Tests on last weekend's North Dining Hall roast beef and hambur­gers show they did not cause the recent outbreak ofgastroenteritis. 
"Both tests were negative," said 
Robert Zerr of the Department of 
Environmental Health and Safety; 
"We know it's not food poisoning." 
A Channel 16 news story dis­
cussed the outbreak, and suggested 
it was a strain of virus which mainly 
affects people under 2S. 
When asked if she has noticed a recent increase in the number ofab­sences in District S high schools, Anne Marie johnson, director of nurses :or the South Bend school corporation, said, "No, not with that specit1c illness." 
The large number of students seeking treatment for the illness has finally decreased. "It's about over," said llniversity Physician Bernard Vagner when asked if many students had come in with the illness in the last t1ve days. 
According to Vagner, the treat­
ment varies with the symptoms. 
"Usually it is something given to stop nausea and vomiting." For those with diarrhea, treatment is "anti-diarrheal medication, which stops abdominal cramping." He said "no antibiotics" have been needed. 
Vagner said that in a college campus situation, featuring the in­teraction of large numbers of people, it is often difficult to avoid illness. 
"Always wash your hands before 


• • • Freeze 
continuedfrom page I 
nological situation is not a threat. If the Soviet Union were to begin tes­ting advanced weapons, capable of destroying our defense system, Blandford said, American surveil­knee would detect it. 
"Our survdllence capacities are incredible. If Ru~sia is testing tech­nologically advanced weapons, we would know and could stop our uni­lateral freeze," said Blandford. 
Blandford also expressed the belkf that nuclear weapons do not serve as a deterrent to Soviet aggres­sion. 
"Nuclear weapons don't serve as a deterrent unless a country is willing ·to use them." It is immoral, Blandford commented. to answer a conventional aggressive attack with nuclear weaponry. He does not bdieve the l·nited States would do this. 
Blandli>rd hesitantlv admitted that the dd.ft may have to be reinstated as a means to build up NATO torces if a unilateral freeze were enacted. 
"I don't think there is any need to trust the Russians. but I want to give them a chance." concluded 

continuedfrom page I 
Despite the controversy, few expect the canon to spark major difficulties except perhaps in resolving the ambiguity about what authority will issue the mandate and on what criteria, Lahey said. 
Scenarios of bishops leveling theology departments at will, !\1cBrien said, are ludicrous considering "most bishops are not interested" in what could entail a "major administrative burden tor which the bishop may feel himself unqualified." 
There are several alternatives for American bishops and colleges: 
• 
First, Americans and Canadians may request a papal indult (special exemption) from the canon in light of the unique independence of North American Catholic colleges. 

• 
The National Conference of Catholic Bishops could decide to delegate immediate responsibility for issuing the mandates to college presidents which is in effect the present procedure. Bishops already have the right to step in anytime they judge a theology department to be inconsistent with the Catholic faith. 

• 
But the most likely outcome will be each bishop deciding the mau.:r mdividually. "Thde's been enou2h 


touching food," he advised. Also, "Always wash fruit before eating it." Another suggestion to avoid illness was to be careful to avoid eating food that may have spoiled after ex­cessive refrigeration periods. The overall rule, according to Vagner, is to "practice good general hygiene." 
Aid transportation 



SUplans buses to South Shore 
By MARY PAT GOLDEN 
News Staff 
In an effort to improve transporta­tion between South Bend and Chicago, the Student Union will sponsor bus transportation to and from the South Shore railroad sta-
Blandford. 
He emphasized that the referen­dum does not call for unilateral dis­armament, but for a unilateral freeze as a t1rst step to mutual disarma· ment. He argued that a "unilateral freeze is more effective and faster" than negotiations for a bilateral freeze. 
"I don't think we'll ever eliminate the threat of nuclear war, but I believe we can make it less prob­able," Blandford said. Lynch con­cluded by reemphasizing the need for a bilateral freeze rather than dan­gerous unilateral action. 

• • • Law 

discussion," McBrien said, "to show that bishops don't want a problem. But in a remote ompost some authori­tarian bishop may decide to exercise his control on some little college." The consequences' "A mess," \1cBrien said. 
Part ofthe mess could involve tht: legal obligations of a college to recognize a professor's tenure even if the professor fails to receive the required mandate. The rule also could contlict with academic freedom guidelines prescribed by the American Association of l'niversity Professors which most colleges observe. 
Another consequence could be a series ofchallenges against Catholic universities that receive federal funds, even though the funds are not used to promost religious activity. A case could be made that these colleges are not truly independent institutions and should not receive governmental aid. 
But McBrien and Lahey stress that the new canon, if it is included in the code, should not cause great problems. In the long run, however, McBrien suggested that "The really serious implication of this whole con­troversy is the loss of respect it may generate for all ecclesiastical law." The law may be on the books, but relatively few in America will make much of it, he said. 

Films focus on identity of women 
By MARY BENDER 
.Veu•sStaff 
Women's identity expre~sion through t1lm will be the th~·me of thi~ week'~ "Look l(>r the Women" t11m serie~. 
Sponsored by the Saint \lan·'s Stu­dent Activities Planning Board (SAPB ), the th·e featured film~ cen­ter upon the protrayal of dominant women characters. 
:'.lonii.Jue Fedor, tllm commis­~ionn of SAPB. hope~ that through the film series, Notre Dame and Saint \tan··~ Mudenb will ht:Tomt· more aware of various way~ in which the tllm medium ha~ articulated women's freedom and their abilitv to hold their own in relation to men. 
The serie~ is coordinated with 
:-.Jotre Dame and · Saint Mary's 
literature and psychology courses 
about women. 
The t1ve t1lms deal with women today, a topic hard to find in most films. The main characters are strong women, working beside, not below, men. Fedor commented that the t1lms aren't meant to be sexist. The purpose of the series is to spark an interest in central women's film 
roles. 
Monday night's tl!m,Resun·ecfion, revolves around a woman who has a near-death experience. After she recovers. she realizes she has powers to heal people and the ability to change others' lives. Al­though it hasn't received much at­
tention in the United States,Resun·ection won the 19~9 Venice Film Award. 
Tut:'~day night'~ BlueAngel, a (;er­
man tllrn with English subtitles, con­
cern~ a saloon ~inger in (;ermanv 
and her abilit,· to manipulate men. 
Gloria. to he ~hown Wedne~tla\ 
night. i~ the storv of an unmarried 
ex-prostitute who, whik tr~·ing to 
raise her adopted ~on on her own. 
must tight again~t the .\lalla. 
Thur~day night'~ Tbe Girlfriends 
b a tllm with which both Notre Dame and Saint \laq ·~ womu1 ~houltl identil\. It'~ the story of two Liberal Arts graduate~. a photog­rapher and a Theater major. tq·ing to establish themsdve~ in :'\:ew York. 
Tbe Girlji'iends is the on!~· 111m in the serie~ directed by a woman. Claudia Wei!. 
The series concludes Friday with Taxi-Drit•er. which received con­troversial attention as a possible in­spiration ti>r the 1981 attempted assassination of President Reagan. In the film, a man is caught between two perspectives ofwomen: the old­er. manipulati\·e woman and the young, naive prostitute. 
The series will give students the opportunity to see classic tllms that no longer receive much attention. 
All tllms will be shown at Saint \laq·'s Carroll Hall at ~,~o p.m. ex­ceptBiueAngel, which will run at-:. There will be an additional 9:.:Hl showing ofFriday's Taxi-Drit'er. Ad­mission is S1. 
tion. 
Dr. Jim McDonnell, director of student activities, says the idea for the new bus trip resulted from a combination offactors. 
"The South Shore has modt:rnized its equipment and evenmally will relocate at the airpou," he said. "1n the meantime we've got a year or two where students need transportation to the existing sta­tion. Transpo doesn't offer any service there." 
!\lark Rolfes, representative of the Smdent l'nion, has been working closely with McDonnell to develop the new bus route. 
''I'm from Chicago and it's a big problem when you want to go home for a weekend because there really bn't any transportation to and from the South Shore. A cab costs S2. 50 to S:'> a person." 
In doing re~earch, Rolfes went home for a weekend and ohserved how many students used the South Shore. There were enough that the Student l'nitm will at least break even with the implementaton of the new bus trip. 
The new schedule begins this weekend. The bus will leave the Main Circle at 7:SO p.m. and Saint Mary's at 8. On Sunday nights, Van Lines will meet the '7: 10 train and the 9:0S train and will drop off stu· 
dents first at Saint Mary's, then at Notre Dame. 
The ride will cost S1 each way (all other Van Lines rides on Friday and Saturday are SO cents round trip), and will start this Fri., Feb. 11, with an 8 p.m. run to the South Short:. 
Buy 

ObserYe~ 
: "The processors hold the key to the success of the tomato industry in Ohio. 
if 
,·.: 

••.:,_1 


I;h~;~~toa~~o~,,~:, ~~:~~:~d~ j~h~Trehe~~;,n
. 
:• t e m1grants earn1ngs an w et er 
:::: 

i1. ~:(,;~~~:~~;:~~~~~ ;;:~~~a;::a tion. ,;i .·; necessary for the migrant as well as th •• 
, ••: ~farmer." =.·: 

-Ohio Senate Investigation 

Campbell's does have a responsibility 
: •' 
'. to the farm worker. VOTE YES TO CONTINUE THE FLOC BOYCOTT.It's 



---------------·-·-----·--------·---·------------------------­
The Observer Monday, February 7, 1983-page 4 

'Breath smelled of alcohol' 
Marine incident angers Israelis 


Nick Schrantz (left) and Brian McCarthy are shown ice skating in the north dome ofthe ACC Friday afternoon. The ACC ice rink is open Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from noon to 1 p.m. for free student skating. (photo by Pete Laches) 
Augusta Hall Room Selections Mandatory Meetings 
Monday, Feb. 7-5:30pm 
Thursday, Feb. 10-5:30pm 
Monday, Feb. 14-Lottery Tuesday, Feb. 15-Room Picks 
All meetings in Augusta TV Lounge 
continuedfrom page 1 

responded, "Peggy ( Prcvoznik) and I have more experience at all levels -hall council, HPC, Student Senate, 
CLC. We've worked with many people in the administrative posi­tions. We have realism with en­thusiasm ...we know what has to be done and we really want to do it." 
Salvador stressed that her ticket "wants to let the student know what's going on. We feel that the stu­dent body is important and we em­phasize that (communications to students) over our dealings with ad­ministration and policy-making, be­cause it's the students that make the student government work. Our goals arc realistic and concrete." 
Connolly who, with his running mate Jim Lcous, organized the high­ly successful "Chance to Dance" events in Chautauqua, felt his ticket stood apart from the <>thcrs because "We've already shown we can get things done in running the Chance to Dance program. Students want to see things done now, not in five or six years. That's our strength ...we can get things done." 
Other issues were addressed by the candidates as follows: UNDERGRADUATE CLUB: Cal­laghan felt the idea of having a non­
alcoholic night for underclassmen at Senior Bar "is a good one, but on Sunday and Monday nights most people are studying." Stating that Senior Bar is not very crowded in the spring semester, he felt that "If the seniors aren't using it on Friday or Saturday nights, the underclas­smen should be able to usc it." 
"Sundays and Mondays are bad nights. If halls could take turns sponsoring the event on better nights, as they do for the Chance to Dance nights, perhaps it could work," commented Salvador. 
Connolly felt Senior Bar was not the optimal location tor underclas­sman nights, suggesting that LaFortune Ballroom should be renovated into a permanent "undergraduate club." "We want to make improvements that will keep people up there continuously," he said. 
ACADEMIC LIFE: All three can­didates favored greater student in· volvcment in the tenure process ­both in decision-making and in being informed of the results of stu­dent evaluation forms. 
"We have a right to know," em­phasized Connolly, "after all, we're here to get the best education we can. We want good professors." 
ALCOHOL ABUSE: The present 
• SBP 

concern ovZr the alleged alcohol problem on this campus is over­emphasized, according to Callaghan, Salvador and Connolly. Callaghan said that "In the past, a lot ofalcohol 
surveys have been done by Psych Services. A report was published saying there's a 'drinking problem'. The results of these surveys are being used by the administration to go against the students in almost every instance. I think the survevs should be stopped." . 
Salvador noted the fact that con­cern with alcohol abuse was more intense last semester, when several drinking-related accidents occurred off-campus. "If you've noticed, con­cern has lessened this semester, since nothing has been happening off-campus." 
THE ADMINISTRATION: Callag­han said he realizes that "Right now the student government has no power to accomplish major projects alone and it never will. We must work with the administration and support the Student Union." 
As a result of her dealings with ad­ministrative officials through HPC and Student Senate, ~'alvador felt she learned that "You can't put the ad­ministration on the defensive when 
you make proposals. You can only 
discuss an issue up to a point, then 
you know it just won't be. It's sad. 
hut that's the way it is." 
Connolly felt that the current 

practice ofinviting Vice President of 
Student Affairs Father john \'an 
\X'olvlear and Dean of Students 
James Roemer ro Student Senate and II PC meetings should he continued. "The more we invoh·e the ad­ministration in the discussions of major issues, the more they will lis­ten when we need them.·· 
STUDENT SENATE: The three candidates .concurred in believing that each senator should have specific goals for which he or she must he held accountable. 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! Omega Productions, Inc. is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can pro,·ide any type of music for any type of event. Parries are our specialtv. Custom music programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 

TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -Israeli military officials, still angry over last week's confrontation between Is­raeli tanks and a U.S. Marine captain in Beirut, put out a story yesterday that his breath smelled ofalcohol. 
The front-page story in the Haaretz newspaper came from military sources who insisted on anonymity and was promptly denied by Marine spokesman Lt. Col. Walt DeForest in Beirut as "absolutely false." Deforest said the Marine was in a remote location without a telephone and that he declined com· ment. 
Another Marine spokesman in Beirut, Dale Dye, asked for a more detailed response to the accusation about Capt. Charles B. Johnson, said: "We are not going to dignify such charges with a statement." 
In Washington, Pentagon spokes­man Maj. Bob Shields said he had no information on the Israeli story. "I'm not trying to be evasive. We just don't have any information to shed any light on what is going on," he said. 
Johnson's mother told The AP from her home in Neenah, Wis., the alcohol story was "ridiculous. There's absolutely no truth to it. Chuck is not a drinker." She said her son is serious and disciplined, and that anyone publicizing Israeli com­mcnts is "playing their game." 
The Israeli military command an­nounced, meanwhile, that two bombs exploded yesterday just outside the Marine-controlled sec­tor of Beirut, and by coincidence slightly wounded the Israeli officer whose tanks were involved in the incident with Johnson tour days ear­lier. 
A command spokesman said the attackers tlcd to west Beir.ut, but he did not know whether they crossed into Marine-controlled territory or the areas supervised by French and Italian forces. 
The Israelis have complained that Palestinian guerrillas attack Israeli targets and tlee to safety behind Marine lines. The Marines are part of a multinational peacekeeping force patrolling Beirut a:fter Israel'sJune 6 invasion to rout the Palestine Libera­tion Organization. 
The publication of the alcohol 

story retlected the army's lingering 
anger over the incident last Wednes· 
day, hut ministers attending rester­
day's regular Cabinet meeting 
considered its appearance in 
Haaretz to be "in bad taste," said a 
senior official briefing reporters. 
The official, who spoke on condi­

tion he not be identified, said the 
government wanted to play down 
the whole alfair in the hope it would 
not be repeated. 
Israel radio said Prime Minister ·Menachem Begin rejected a 
proposal presented to the Cabinet 
that Israel demand a formal apology 
from Washington. 
Cabinet Secretary Dan Meridor 

told The Associated Press he had no 
official information on the alcohol 
story. "It was not reported to the 
Cabinet that this was a fact. It was 
not reported to the Cainet at all," he 
said. 
After its publication, the alcohol story was reiterated to The As­socia(ed Press by the same military sources on condition they not be identified. 

-~---~~--~ -----~-----------------~------------~~--------~-~--~--­
SBP Candidates express views 
Monday, February 7, 1983-page 5 

Callaghan to provide student voice 
By WARREN BERRY The candidates also emphasized a renovations and increased use of Campus Campaign Reporter restructuring of the Student Senate Lafortune. Washington llall. and the -to make it a more active and effi­Lihrarv Auditorium. 
Brian Callaghan and Peggy cient body within student govern­According to Prevoznik. :"<otrc Prevoznik. candidates for Student ment. Callaghan, a student senator Dame -.rudenr-are indeed con­Bod\' President and Vice President. for two years. feels that each senator cerned about the current social feel they possess three traits needed must he given a specitic area ofcon­issues. A new SlUdent Center is a to accomplish their realistic goals centration -social. academic. ti>od campus-wide issue, hut each quad ti>r the :-.lotre Dame community -services. and social projects. Thus, has a certain amount of issues to he expenence. dedication. and en­each ,.,enator i;, given more respon­tkalt with. North ami Town quad thusiasm. sibilities: he must continuallv do mu1 are most interested in another 
Ont· of the major goals of the research on topics of student inter­\ten·, Laundrv, preferahlv in the Callaghan-Prevoznik ticket is to est, and discuss the results with both :-.lorth Dining Hall or the old Credit "improve life at :'\iotre Dame by the student government and the ad­l nion building. J.ctivelv n>icing student opinions ministration. "South quad dormitories are and concerns to the administration." The major objective of this ticket desperatelv in need of additional so­Callaghan stated that many good t{>r the coming I'JH:'dH academic cial span· or party rooms." said ideas fall on deaf ears because of a year is to continue to push for a Stu­Prevoznik. "Both Lvons and \lorris­lack ofcommunication between the dent Center where the Old sey have voiced complaints over this 'tudent government and the ad­Fieldhouse now stands. Callaghan issue. hut as yet nothing has been ministration. was quick to note. however. that, done. Also. the D-6 parking lot needs 
"Both sides look upon each other "The completion· of a new Student repair. The gravel surface is showing as opponents." Callaghan said. "As a Center is at least four years away. signs ofwear, and we feel that the lot result. swdents fail to listen and un­From what I have gathered from ad­should he paved. Perhaps the size of derstand administrative policies. ministrative officials. the l'nivcrsity the lot could he increased so that Furthermore. the administration is still undecided about the subject. certain dormitories can park their claims that swdents don't seem to \X'e have to improve our current so­cars near the ROTC building instead consider the effects of their cial facilities now. Renovations of the Stadium." programs over a long period of time. would bendlt not only the social Student apathy was a concern of We plan to eliminate these feelings aspects of the Notre l)ame com­both Callaghan and Prcn>Znik. "We by dealing directly with the ad­munitv. but academic and com­can eliminate, or at least alleviate, ministration. face-to-face; this avoids munity services as well." student apathy hy getting underclas­issues being blown out of propor­The candidates suggested the smen invoh·ed in student govern­tion. Both sides must be open­reupholstering of chairs in the ment," stated Prevoznik. "Freshmen minded. With such cooperation and Engineering AudiiOrium. an in­are enthu~iastic and willing to learn communication, we can accomplish creaM:-in use of the Annenbng what student government is all our goals." Theatre, and a combination of about: thev have unique ideas. and 
Brian Callaghan 

give us another point of view on stu­dem issues." 
Callaghan maintained that. "\Iany of the Student Senators are over­loaded with work. These underclas­smen could work under these people. learn the system. and help make Notre Dame run more smoothlv and more dficicntlv." Both candidates emphasized an in­crease in the use of the media ­both Tbe Obserz•er and WSND -to make the student body aware of what the government is doing. 
Callaghan summed up his cam­
paign: "We offer realistic goals 
through our experience. We are 
both hall presidents. and I was a 
member of the Campus Life Council 
and the Student Senate when it was 

Peggy Prevoznik 

an active. eftlcic:nt hmlv. \\'e know the administration. and we know who to go to and who can reallv help us to achieve our goals_·· 
Prevoznik added. "We share the same goab. hut being of the opposite sex, our outlooks dift'cr a little. A compromise of these outlooks brings about a clear idea which represents a ,·iew acceptable to both male and female students, and to the administration as well." 
"We recognize the need ti>r im­provement in student life at Notre Dame. hut we feel that with the un­limited potential of the student bodv, much can he done to make your remaining years here cnjovable ones," said Prevoznik. 
With Leous 
Connolly to enhance social life 
By POLLY HUDAK 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
Tim Connollv and running mate .Iim Leous enter the I 9H~ Student Bodv Presidential/Vice Presidential campaign with a strong, innovative 
platti>rm. Among their goals is the 
improvement of social atmosphere 
at :-.lotre Dame through an increase 
in planned student activities, more 
dlective communication with 
faculty and administration, and max­
imum· use of the Hall President's 
Council to motivate campus unity. 
Both Connolly and Leous have 
strong records of experience. Con­
nollv is the president of Howard Hall 
and Executive Coordinator of HPC 
Leous is the president ofCavanaugh, 
as well as an HPC Senate Representa­
tive. 
In discussing their platt(mn, Con­
nollv and Leous stress the 
importance of working effectively 
with the present campus situation. 
Regan.ling the push for a new stu­
dent center. Connollv said he will 

continue urging the administration to take action on the construction of a new center. He will. however, 
Tim Connolly place emphasis on working with the facilities at hand. 
To initiate better outside-class"What we need is an immediate relations with the faculty, Connollysolution to the problem," Connolly and Leous propose a programsays. "And that's what we hope to of­whereby students and their profes­fer." 

sors get together at meals.

Connollv and Leous' plan of ac­"We want to work alot in conjunc­tion focuses on the Lafortune 
tion with :vir. Hickcv. the new food

Student Center. or more specifically, services director, because he is in­
Chautauqua. located on the second terested in student-teacher interac­tloor. Connollv recently promoted tion through the dining halls." l.eous
the successful "Chance to Dance," savs.
J.n informal dance open to all stu­Connollv adds that he would likedent-.. featuring a DJ and refresh­to invite members of the administra­ments m Lafortune. 
tion to sit-in on Student (;overn­'Chance to Dance" highlights ment meetings. Then thcv might

c.,nnollv and Leous· list of new so­tune-in ro real student issues andcial J.lternatives. Among others are a 
concerns. At the same time. Connol­

Fall Festival and Winter Carnival, 
lv explains, the adminbtration might

cn·nts similar to the popular AnTos­hecome more aware of their role intal, hi-weekly mini-concerts and the eftective decision-making hy attend­in.,tallation of a large television ing the swdent meetings.
screen in LaFortune. 
An overall effort to keep students 

The Connolly-Leous platform also and faculty aware of campus events calls on student interest in the crea­
is an essential element in the tion of better facultv-student rela­Connolly-Leous platt(Jrm. Connollv tions. Increased faculty mvolvement expressed the belief that this is in campus events is needed. Connol­where HPC can he most useful. By ly said. but it is up to students to communicating news and ideas· develop the student-professor through hall presidents and their relationship outside tl1c classroom. councils. the Student Government is Jim Leous 
able to reach students on a more personal basis, Connolly said, and solicit their responses. 
"Chance to Dance" has been run through the HPC, and participation has been exceptional -up to 'iOO students have attended some nights, Connolly reports. This is largelv be­cause the halls themselves take turns sp<msoring the dances. he explains. It's up to each participating hall president and his or her council to encourage hall participation in the dance. The\' come through, Connol­ly says. because they don't want to let the co-sponsor halls down. 
Student interest in "Chance to Dance" continues to increase. As creator of the event, Connolly is pleased with its success, which he attributes to the HPC cfti>rt. He also sees "Chance to Dance" as proof his hard work and qualitkation ti.Jr next yq.r's Student Body President. 
"It's like we've made a head start," sav Connolly and Leous. "We have a successful campus project behind us even before we're in oftke." 
Salvador emphasizes more communication 
By TOM PACE 
Campus Campaigll Reporter 
Increased communication is the 
key to Liza Salvador and .\like Car­
lin's election campaign. 
-~alvador, a candidate li>r ~tudent Body President, stresses increased communication between the stu­dent government and the student body as the central factor in the quest to improve .the l niversity's response to the issues at hand. 
An integral part of her plan to bet­
ter communications is the regular 
publication of a Student (iO\-ern­
ment intiJrmation bulletin. Salvador 
t·xpresses the belief the bulletin 
would increase student involve­
ment in government. and facilitate 
the speedv confrontation of issues 
needing attention. 
Salvador notes her experience with the Hall President's Council, as president of Breen-Phillips Hall. has familiarized her with the workings of student government. 
''I've realized that vou cannot bt· radical with the administration. You've got to present a sound. logi­cal case." she said. She continued to say that this experience would allow her to work on a close basis with the Hall President's Council in order to he closer to the problems that arise in the halls. 
Salvador wants to offer studt·nts 
the option of \lCl telephone ser\ice. 
if possible. She would like to contact 
a representati\-e of the outtit and 
begin \ICI mailings to students th1s 
summer as Indiana Bell has done in 
the past. 
Also, she is interested in opening a t()()d saks operation in the Engineering Auditorium ti>r movie­goers. The outtlt would he run by various groups on campus in­terested in raising funds. and they would he responsible ti>r both setup and cleanup. 
One of the ongoing issues Sal­vador wishes to address is the problem of mandatorv laundrv service. She e:-..pre,snl interest in making the service opt ionJ.I for mt·n and women. Shekels that the loss of revenue from those men who would choose to discontinue their use ot the St. .\lichael's scn·icc would he oftset by the addition ot service to women. 
Salvador has worked on the com­mittee to improve social spaL't' and she sees this space as another issue to he resolved while in oftke. She considers renovations to the Huddle and LaFortune Student Center to be of primarv importann· because "there will be no new student center t(>r at least tlvc or I 0 \Tars." 

:vlike Carlin Liza Salvador 

r-­
' Editorials 
Monday, February 7, 1983-page 6 


i I Callaghan for SBP 
I 
Brian Callaghan and Peggy Prevoznik are the most qualified candidatesI in tomorrow's election for Notre Dame Student Body President and Vice President.
I . Unlike the other two tickets, Callaghan and Prevoznik seem to under­
i 
stand the role and process of student government at Notre Dame. TheirI platform reflects an awareness of the unlimited potential of the student body, and their sincere desire to work with the students.! In order to use the potential of the student body, Callaghan and 
I Prevoznik propose to increase the effectiveness of both the Student Senate and the Campus Life Council. This proposal may be an effective
! ' 
step toward the positi~e reception ofstudent opinions by the administra­tion. 
The Callaghan/Prevoznik platform is ambitious yet realistic. It offers more comprehensive and long-range plans than the other candidates' platforms. The building ofa new student center is an example. Callaghan and Prevoznik want to push for a new center, but recognize the need to make more effective use of the current buildings in the meantime. 
The other candidates, however, are less ambitious. Tim Connolly and Jim Leous don't emphasize the investigation of a new center because such a building wouldn't be built for several years. Liza Salvador and Mike Carlin think improvements such as hanging plants and installing carpet­ing would make La Fortune an acceptable student center. ­
Callaghan and Prevoznik are devoted to investigating some of the problems encountered by Notre Dame students. For example, they in­tend to compare the prices of the Bookstore with those ofsimilar stores for necessity items. 
Other innovative ideas otl'ered by Callaghan and Prevoznik are: a stu­dent investigation ofthe tenure process; the need for a men's laundry on the North Quad; the need for a new location for the Placement Bureau. 
This endorsement of Callaghan and Prevoznik, however, is not un­qualified. It appears that they do not fully realize the problems ofwomen on the campus or the importance of the Hall President's Council for the implementation of ideas. 
Connolly and Leous, however, lack a vision of the future. They present superficial ideas, most ofwhicll deal with social problems on campus. Salvador and Carlin are not prepared to run student government. Their proposals do not address the fundamental issues we, as students, face. For these reasons, we endorse Callaghan and Prevoznik. 
Support unilateral freeze 
Concern over the uncontrolled growth of nuclear weapons has neve1 been greater. Hundreds of thousands of people have demonstrated in Europe, and protest movements in this country are gaining support. At 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's a referendum has been placed on the stu­dent elections ballot. It calls for a unilateral freeze ofthe testing, produc­tion, and further deployment ofall nuclear weapons by the United States. 
Opposition has centered on the referendum's inability to require the Soviet Union to follow suit; however, ifthe United States were to freeze at current levels, our capability to destroy the world would still remain. 
Would it not be fitting for the country which pioneered the nuclear bomb, to pioneer that weapon's elimination? We would gain the respect of the entire world as it breathed a collective sigh of relief. 
World attention would be on the Soviets to see if they are sincere in their calls for peace. Ifthe Soviets follow suit, all would be the winners. If they chose to continue their build-up, we would have the moral vindica­tion ofknowing we tried. And then the arms race could sadly continue. 
The Observer urges you to voice your anger at the continuing prolifera­tion of nuclear weapons and vote "yes" on the freeze referendum. 
"For" Campbell boycott 
With some reservations, The Observer supports the FLOC-sponsored boycott ofCampbell products.
Although the Campbell Soup Company is not legally liable to com­mence negotiations between itself, farmers, and migrants, the company is morally responsible to work toward the betterment of Ohio 
farmworkers. 

Campbell claims that it is not directly responsible for the hiring of farmworkers, yet the company well knows the plight of farmers and workers who grow and harvest tomatoes; furthermore, the company is well-equipped to insure the complete and speedy resolution of poverty and misery of thousands of Americans. 
The referendum has spurred national attention; Notre Dame must answer the pleas of Ohio farmworkers as a first step toward the respect for all migrants. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eit'ler institution. The news is reported as ac· curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219)239-5303 

P.O. BoxQ 
FLOC arena 
Dear Editor: 
Martin Luther King Jr. revered Mohandas Gandhi because he showed that '.'Christ's Sermon on the Mount was practical and not mere pie-in-the-sky idealism." You have an opportunity to continue that practical demonstration by your participation in the FLOC-supported borcott of Campbell and 
Libby products. Justice, dignity and peace can he won in arenas other than the bat­tletkld and Tuesday's referendum is just an arena. Please consider the issues and vote YES to continue the boycott. 
The Staffat Campus .Uinistry• 
CILA: freeze 
Dear Editor: 
The Community for the International Lay Apostolate support~ the Feb. H referendum for the unilateral nuclear weapons freeze by the l ~nited States. • 
Cl LA's support stems from the organiza­tion's commitment to fostering Christian values ofsocial justice. A unilateral freeze of· fers hope li>r an end to the nuclear arms race which is wholly immoral and reprehensible. 
Efti>rts must be made to further the prospects of mutual disarmament, and the freeze referendum is a positive step in this direction. 
Bread, not bombs, is the only morally jus­tifiable choice Christ offers us in our quest tiJr peace. and the members of CILA, in sup· port of the freeze referendum, urges all of 
the  Notre  Dame  community  to  vote  for  
peace on F eb. H.  
Communi(vforlnt'l  
Lay Apostolate  

Pax Christi: yes' 
Dear Editor: 
Recently, the Holy See's delegation to the United Nation's Conference on Disarma· ment stated: "The arms race is to be con­demned unreservedly. By virtue of the nature of nuclear weapons and the situation pervading on our planet, even when 
motivated by a concern for legitimate defense, the armaments race is, in fact, a dan­ger, an injustice, a mistake, a sin, and a folly." 
In a similar vein, the sole anathema in the documents of the Second Vatican Council is reserved for any use of nuclear weapons. 
We the members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's chapter of Pax Christi, in considera· tion of the teachings of the Church and in our desire to see the end of the arms race, unl1esitatingly support the nuclear arms freeze and urge the members of our two­campus community to weigh the issue and vote "yes" on tomorrow's referendum. 
john Revord, President Notre Dame Pax Christi 

Freeze is moral 
DearEditor: 
Election day is fast approaching, and I have yet to ht·ar very much real debate about the referendum which calls for the United States to unilaterally freeze the tcs· ting, production, and deployment ofnuclear 
Editorial Board 
Editor·in·Chief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic SMC Executfi.,e Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor .:...........................Paul McGinn Features Editor ..................... Joseph Musumeci Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
weapons as a first step towards mutual dis­armament. Most debates concentrate almost toally on its political aspects..\1ost students are sympathetic to claims that weapons are potentially destructive and art·n't too good to have around, but they quickly pass over these considerations in favor of arguments which involve such catchwords as deter­rence, national security, and naivete. "lost discussions boil down to two questions: I ) If the United States were to unilaterally freeze. could it trust the Russians to ti>llow its lead' 
2) Could the llnited States effectivdy deter Russian attack' In other words, students point the accusing finger at the Russians be­cause they are not certain whether the Rus­sians could he trusted. Effecting a unilateral freeze in the face of such uncertainty would pose an unacceptable threat to America. 
Such arguments pass over too quickly basic mpral que.-,tion.-, in order to quibble about the height of stockpiles. To break the thirty-year, cold·war deadlock. we Americans are going lO have to stop pointing the accusing !Inger at the Russians and start scrutinizing some of our own arguments. Maybe if we spent more time with the basic moral questions, numbers games would be 
meaningless. 
Arguments in favor of or opposed to nuclear weapons which take place strictly on the political level pres<..'nt a twisted set of priorities. People \vho rnaintain that 
America s)10uld build a superior nuclear ar­senal have no interest in any sort of peace. except a peace controlled by America to which all other nations should submit. America becomes the standard on which all decisions are based. What is good for America is good for me. America becomes an idol. 
Christianity, however. makes God and not America its first priority. It asks us to make a decision about what our faith calls ti>r. We need to realize that a buildup in instruments capable of causing complete devastation of thiS world and its inhabitants in no way cor­responds to jesus' urging that we be peacemakers and that we love our enemies. A true Christian faith must oppose nuclear weapons. It must transcend stagnated dis­cussions. It must go beyond simply un­derwriting whatever America does. It must assume responsibility and take the initiative toward a more effective, less selfish policy. We must pray for the strength. 
Tom Ryan College ofArts and Letters 

Editor's note -The following was received from Mark Boone, candidate for Student Senate in District 4. He refers to the story by Tom Mowle about his candidacy irt last Thursday's Observer. Mowle and The Ob­serverstand by the original story. 
Candidate responds 
Dear Editor: 
In my interview I have heen misquoted, for I have held various positions but not as of ye: on the Hall Staff, and my feelings about the Fieldhouse are as follows: I feel that this building is an eyesore and should be replaced by something beneficial to all stu­dents. 1 am stating these points as I do not wish to mislead others as to my qualitka· tions or intentions. 
.Wark Bou11e 

Department Managers 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertising Martager ....................... Chris Owen Production Manager ..................Maura Murphy Circulation Mtmager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 


.-·-..,-.-iiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
... 



Blistets, fun and talent highlight ffiatdi Gtas 
T ari Brown and J. P. Keyes 
whirling dervishes 
W
ild screaming punk rockers 
took the floor amidst the 

blaring sounds of today, radiating 
from the•WSND-AM system. 
SHUFFLE, SHUFFLE. 
From above, the Lord watched 
over the tired, the hungry, the blis­
tered as they moved and grooved to 
the percussive beat ofcharity-pop. 
Supervisory blue-shirred Mardi Gras 
guards made sure no one left alive 
(or with any life in them). But laugh-· 
ing, lively, assorted creatively ap­
parelled persons loved life with limp 
legs for over 12 hours. 
BOOGIE, BOOGIE. 
It was so absurd. To be dancing for 
12 hours when the snow was falling, 
blanketing the Notre Dame campus 
with its annual coat ofwhite flurries. 
Why did we do it? 
There must have been a good 
reason. 
Wasn't there? 
New wave, rhythm and blues, 
Michael jackson' We were all dying slowly, but we were dying on our feet. 
JIGGLE, JIGGLE. 
Some people really could dance. Others of us practiced the two-step, with three and four steps. Ouch' Watch the feet. 
ONE, TWO. 
THREE, FOUR. 
Dance-a-thons are not for the 
weak, meek or ugly. They are rather, for the uninhibited, the strange, the freaks; men and women not ashamed to look stupid, to feel tired, to hurt themselves for no particular reason . . except for charity's sake. They are those individuals with a heart that can pump blood under the most grueling ofdance floor cir­cumstances, such as the ancient line dance, that ritualistic activity, of 
those peopleDown under. 
STEP, STEP, STEP, KICK. 
The dance contest is for the in­ventive, for those men who have the courage to test gravity, and for those women who have the courage to trust their partners not to drop them on the linoleum out of their death­defying spiral turns or over-the-head carries. 
WE WANT DIGGER! 
Gerry Faust and Digger Phelps showed up in their Irish regalia to cheer the dancers on, to give them money, food, tickets. The monev and food were most appreciated. An offer ofsideline seats at the South Carolina game was politely turned down for the more delectable offer ofa Hojo gift certificate. 
We weren't in the dance contest. 
We didn't win anything. But we had 
fun; we gave to a good cause. We 
hurt ourselves for no good reason 
except charity. 
Later, the band entered, Chariot from Chicago: volume, feedback. ex­treme noise, until someone un­plugged them and sent them back to the windy city. We won't mention any names but we are sorry we did it. 
We were more sorry when the 
band decided that they needed a 
break for they left Gary O'Brien and 
his magic at the microphone. Apret­
ty green handerkerchiefflew 
through the air and turned into lace 
underwear. We liked that part. 
BOP TILL YOLJ DROP. 
We dropped. 
To those ofyou who made it, all twelve hours, congratulations! You deserve the rest that you have hope­fully gotten by now. You deserve the praise and admiration ofyour fellow dancers for your endurance and spirit to go the distance. Every one 
of those charities thanks you for your time and effort. The track coach wants to speak with you too. 
To those of you who didn't make it (all twelve hours), neither did we. However, the less than twelve hours that we spent furtnering our blister~ and corns were well worth the slight discomfort and the great pleasure that we had in doing so for the benefit ofcharity. 
The Observer Features Section 
Monday, February 7, 19H3 -page 8 
0

•-~(\. -x::•'-\ ' <1.!4 A • ' _ -----•-~ ""'-­
Pleasant dreams 
T
o my loyal readership, knew one hardcort:.sleeper who nodded off during a If tbere is anyone out there (besides my test ( ht: got a C-). girlfriend Susan and ff!Y roommates) who reads my Far more enjoyable than das!'>room ~lcep is the much column regularly. you may hal'e noticed-altbough renownt:d afternoon nap. For the somnolent !->tudcnt probah/J• not-tbat I fill up tbis space et•erv other (somnolent means slt:epv and. yes, l did get it from a Jfmulav u•hile my colleague .11arc Ramirez u•rites a tht:saurus ), tht: anticipation ofa reMful siesta can he suf­column the otheri'dontlavs.lfyou're trul)' an tkient inspiration to struggle through an entire morn­"ohsen•cmt" reader, you nu~v havefurther noticed tbat ing ofclasses. Couches are usually standard equipment Ibis is tbe third straight week my hy/ine is ajJjJearing for thcst: slumbers although beds arc acceptable in ex­mul)•ou mav be wondering wbat happened to Marc treme cases which havt: been known to la'st four or five last week. Yes, he is still a/iue, and kicking, and et•en hours. What better preparation liH an evening of writing, hut through some sort ofmishap,/ was git,en rousing activitv -or even !->tudying I suppose -than a creditforbiscolumn last u•eek.l know/ didn't u·rite pre-dinnt:r nap. Ibe column because I didn't race to luncb and grab "Early to bed, early to rbe. makes a man healthv. tbirtv·set•en copies ofthepaperto send to nl)' relatir•es. wealthy and wist:... So said that famous patriot and 
phrase-maker. Bt:njamin Franklin. I nti>rtunately, such ill-fated advict: prt:cludes participation in two of lift:'s
Chris Fraser 
greatest pleasures: going out and sleeping in. Let's face it. you must be dreaming ifyou think early rising is at all pleasant.
features Hibt:rnating beneath a heap ofwarm blankets may, in 
fact. be the onlv bearable way to face a South Bend win­So please direct your latest compliments, criticisms, ter morning. Indeed, we somehow feel justified in cut­marriageproposals, and death threats to Marc. Thank 
ting an early morning class because wt: do need our you. sleep. So B. F.'s advice may not he so great but then what On to this week's topic -sleep. Not one to sleep on 
do you t:xpect from a man who tlies kites in tht: rain and the job, I've done twenty years ofintensive research on 
wantt:d the turkev as our national bird? Could you really this subject and so l feel eminently qualified to talk 
sleep at night with the turkey as the symbol for your· about it. Many ofyou probably consider sleep a favorite 
country? pastime. as do I. The fact is. sleeping is hardly and ac­

Alas, collegt: is clearly not a complete slet:pt:r'stivity confined to the American college student. lt is paradist:. We must hear in mind that it is the home ofthe
practiced by people the world over. transcending race, 

dreaded all-nightt:r. You may disagrt:e (and I certainlycrt:ed. agt:, and pajama style. However. I am going to won't lose any slt:ep over it) but my suspicion is thatconct:ntratt: on the sleeping habits oftht: stu­
these occur with greatly exaggerated frequency. Howdt:nt.because perhaps more than anyone dse, we col­
manv of you can say you have literally stayt:d up alllege studt:nts art: truly expert sleepers. 
night -studying that is. Personally. the worst I've everAfter all, it is not everyone who dt:velops the aptitude done is two hours slt:ep. Still. l guess it could be arguedto sleep in a hard, str.aight chair surrQ,Undcd by a room that the college student's appreciation ofsleep stemsfull of people. Ah yes, the in-class dozt:. Your notes get directly from those bleary-eyt:d, late nights spent study­ust:lessly scribbly, your t:yelids gel hopelessly heavy ing. But don't try telling me that the night before myand bt:fort: you know it your head nods down, your pen nt:xt test. 
slides up tht: pagt: and it's lights out. (You cari always tell which days you "rested" when you look hack l hope this briefdiscussion has enhanced your ap­through your notebook.) Snoring is not recommended preciation of tht: popular art ofsleeping (and not. in­for these brit:fsnoozes although you can sometimes get stead. put you to sleep): :vtort· likely, you may just fed away with a kw muffled wheezes..\tore popular in tired ofall my cute little comments about sleep. But some classes than others, few students completely miss pleast: don't judge me too hastily. Tt:ll vou what, sleep 
our on this element of the collegt: t:xperit:nce. I t:ven on it and get back to me tomorrow. 
lntimncy:what the DOCTOR ordered 
I
t's been a long time since I really as to the age of the building was No, wait. I don't want to go into wrote a scathing review. and "wt:ll over a hundred years old." The the show much; th1s may seem like friends have complaint:d that I'm similarity in age to Washington Hall cheating (it may also seem like cop­getting soft in my old age. I ap­is the on!~· similarity. l (and every ping out), hut the show is generally proached tht: South Bend Civic otht:r Theater major I have ever not that familiar as a work ofSimon's. Theater's production ofNeil Simon's known) have complained ottt:n and and it would bt· far more effective Tbe Good Doctor with all guns loudlv about the t;tcilities and concli­coming as a surprise. primt·d. ready to he a.-; objectivt:ly tion ofvtncrable old Washington. 
The players are an enthusiastic
critical as a Christian conscience Count your blessings, folks. bunch of trooper!'> who go all out to
would allow. The potential was The people I saw perform Satur­give the inti matt· audience far more
there; a small tht:att:r. a ditlkult day night work without any hack­comedy. and a slightly mopey stage space. Tht: tech booth is a 
than their monev's worth. The onlv 
rt:viewer -all was in readiness for a crawlspace insertt:d in the ceiling. In ofwhom who might he at all famili~r to Notre Dame or ~t. .\tary's patrons
typical"pan." I felt sure that I could, the world oftheater. tht:y would, I'm with little ellort, leave the en~ire afraid, he das!'>itted as havt:-nots. But 
is :vtichacl Varga, who is the coor­
dinator ti>r "Writers and Other
tht:y do havt:. What they have is tht: 

Joe musumeci 
Trouhadors," a group which per­forms pretty much anything at tht: 
kind ofspirit and intimatt rapport 

with an audience that negates all problems ofspace. budget and Cornucopia every Monday, and has, facilitit:s. They have guts. I believe, made an occasional ap­
drama review When you l1rst walk into tht: pearance on the Notre Dame campus.
Firt:house Thc::ater, you feel like a company gasping for a final breath 
sardine in the lobby evt:n if you're 

This i!'>n't mud1 ofa review. The
on their way down. 
alone. The tht:..tter itself is tht: size of 

group didn't leave mt: wanting toAh well. 
some of the suites in Notre Dame 

talk about the pcrt(mnancc; it is a l .night as well skip the review. 
dorms, and still houses about sixty 

very inlimatt: experienct:, especiallyflu; 'won't: rather, 1will just lt:avt: 
seats and a sizablt: stagt:. The close­

for thost: ofus whose confrontations
off a while to air more important 
ness of tht: pc::rformers with tht: 

with the theater have been limited
matters. 
patrons is surpassed only bv t)le 
to packed houses in halls largeThe South Bend Civic Tht:att:r is 
closeness of the patrons with them­

enough to contain "mall cities. Theneither professional nor heavilv 
selves. 

caM is happy to comt: ott· the stagt:
budgeted: the sets remind me of the The production ofSimon's The and play in the aislt:s, and the tone of
sort ofthing I used to put togethtr in 
Good Doctor was one of the most 

the show is very conducive to thi!->.
high school with no budgt:t at all. 
t:njoyable evenings I have spt:nt at 

But the best thing about the entireThe lighting is dont: with household 
the theatt:r in ages. That is not to say 

evening was the fet:ling that the castquality tloodlights, the kind you find 
that it was all that impressive. Im­
was having as much fun as the

in hack yards during the summer. 
pressive just isn't the right word. But 
audience.

The most unique feature ofthe com­
it was tun. Oh. ~o fun. The show itself pany is the theater where their 
is difticult to pull oft·convincingly. The show will continue on "smaller" shows are performed. Tht: 
Tht: storv is a personal glimpse of February I 0, I I. 12 and 1""', lH. 19. Firehouse Theater is a com·ened old 
Anton Cht:khov as a writer with a Admission is S2. ""'S ti>r tht: Thursdayfirehouse at '01 Portage Ave.. 
block. giving a personal glimpse of night shows and s5 SO for all other. marked as a his<Jrical landmark and 
some of the characters he portrayed performances. The Firehouse a P1ost unlikely setting for a stage 
111 his works. Within the script are Theater is at :o l Portage Ave. l had a performance. 
scvtral wonderful caricatures of horrible time t1nding it, but it's not The nearest estimate that tht: cos­
Russian life. esecially in !~w: sh»·t really that difikult. Give it a shot; It'll tumer, Pam Johnson, could give mt: 
"ketch. ""The :-.nc::eze." tw well worth it 
Aclash of titans 
A
n <)minous expanse ofgreen ~tretcht:" before the anxious ci>nl· batants as they prepare the1r weapons tor the impending "truggle. The shots are placed in their chamber with care bv the chal­lenger as the champion powders his firing stick. . 
The rules ofbattit: are few and simple. The:: champion will have the 
first blast and will tire until he wins or misses hi" aim, whichever 
comes t1rst. If the challenger gets a shot, ht: ketps at it until he wins 
or misses. And so the war is waged. 
The gamt: is perhaps more recogniLabk as the eight-hall version of 
pocket billiards, hut assorted smokt:-filled rooms about town take on 
the characteristics of Roman art:nas when the game i" played within 
tht:ir walls. 

Wily old veterans and brash young upstarts dash as titan!'> over a 
bed of!->late carpeted with gret:n ldt. Balls ofcolored gla"s art madt: 
subservient to tht wills of these warriors. 
Some play for mont:y. somt: for drinks, some onh for the chal-
Bruce Oakley 
out on a limb 
lengc. None play to lose. 

!learned tht: gamt: on a table with small pockt:ts and a wooden 
bed, which, ofcourse, was warped. l still shoot longt:r shots as if I 
were playing on a warped tablt: -consistently striking about three 
inches otftargt:t. This is a considerable handicap, e"pecially 
troublesomt: on those occasions when l choose to play ti>r some­
thing other than the challenge. 

Recently, several frit:nds·and I donned our fighting garb (all right, so it was only jeans and tlannt:l shirts) and strode purposefully into a local drinking establishment. The place is tht: dosest thing to the Romans' in this area-games are still contested at the ancient price 
of l\VO bits. 

One of my friends urged me to put a quarter on the table im­
mediately, to claim the right to challengt:. hut I needtdlime to 
prepare myst:lf mentally for the strugglt:. Bt:sides. it's not~ good idea 
to challenge without first sizing up the opposition -t:specially if 
your long shots have a three-inch, oft--targt:t shift. 
This night, an old drunk was playing a black man. an unti>rtunate circumstance for my fragile psyche. I always fear that such people havt: spent much more time playing pool on tables without warp" than I can imagine. 
After watching these two for a moment; howt:ver. my fears were allayed: these mt:n evidenced a familiar oft·-targt:t shift. 
Cont1dently, l quaffed the last ofa mug of brew. marcht:d to tht: green plane ofcontlict. and ceremoniously placed two pieces ofsil­ver on the edge ofthe table. One was for me, the other for whichever of my comrades in arms would dare challenge me after mv victory. 
Playing on a money tabk, one dots not admit deteat as a pos­sibility. 
The old man, who was the better of the two players. somdlOVI' snatched defeat from the jaws ofalmost certain victory. llappily, brashly, I traded my quarter for 15 orbs ofglass. I painstakingly ar­ranged the globes in the mystical triangk, tht:n cart:fully placed tht: structure I had created on the headspot. 
With a single "troke of his cut:, the black man destroyed the unity of my work, dispatching rounded glass to all sectors of the plane of battle. Plenty ol" noise, but no balls wert: pocketed. 
Someone put up another quarter. 
.\ty t1rM few shots wert: !'>hort. and I maneuvered the cue ball around like an old drunk would have. positioning it perfectly lilr the next shot. After a few such shots. though, there was no way around playing a long shot. l missnl tht: pocket by two inche!'>. a feat l con­sidered a moral victory. 
Tht: black man and l then took several turns at demonstrating our ott·-target shifts, which encouraged a beautiful young woman at the bar to makt: her challenge ofsilver. 
Money, drinks, competition -these art: not the only reasons ti>r playing pool. 
With renewed purpose, I dispatched tht: black man quickly, pocketing tht: remaining balls with skillful ease. With bigger targets in mind. I have leJ!S trouhlt: wirh little ones. 
The challenges ofa frit:nd and a stranger stood between me and a bigger target. 
When my friend t1nallv removed the rack. I was readY. I broke the geometrically pc.:rfect array, "tarting a chain rc::action ofinelastic col­lisions that finally subsided after sevt:ral halls wt:re po..:ketd A ft:w more shots, and I was comfortably ahead. 
Then !looked over toward the girl at tht: bar. She was talking to th1~ next challenger. playing a gamt: more delicate -and more dan­gerous -than pocket hilliards. 
I returned my attention half.ht:artedlv to a simpler gaute. I careful· ly lined up the next shot and ... sent tht: cue ball thing toward :vtars. It took a while, but my friend finally won the right to face tht: stran­ger. My friend didn't have a chance. 
Hack at my :-.eat. l watched a beautiful woman and a strangt:r piav two games at once. 
As I watched. I was thankful to havt lost. In the game ot htlltards, playnl bv mortals as a clash of titans. at leaM I undustand the rules. 

~~()rts~/~l~r~i~e~~~S~======~====================M==on=d=~=,F=e=br=u=acy==7,=I=9s=3=·=pa=ge==9
H\· !be ( JIJsetTer and The Associated Press 

Any remaining participants in the men's un­
...Men

der~rad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should call the ;\IVA office at 239-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­
ment moving. -The Observer 
continuedfrom page 12 
suff'ered a heart attack in December. "We were pretty much able to match them basket for basket, but 
we never got any closer. We had to zic has announced a major rule change for this year's tournament. 
Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Dave Dzied­
control Paxson, but they got a very Only one NCAA Division I basketball player, past, or present, will be 
good complimentary performance allowed per team. Registration for Bookstore XII will be Thursday, 
from the other players. March 10. -The Observer 
"Kempton was the difference in the game in the second half. We just forgot about him." 
It will be tough for Steinwedel to
Notre Dame-Fordham ticketsfor the Feb. to 

forget about Kempton following game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half-price to Saturday's second half. After beingstudents at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game ofa limited to one rebound and zero 
doubleheader with Manhattan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. 
shots in 13 tlrst-halfminutes, the 6-9 
Student tickets are S5. -The Observer 
forward from Oyster Bay, N.Y., ex­ploded. He hit seven-of-nine from the field and all five foul shots to blow open the previously close con­test.
World Boxing Association lightweight cham­

Kempton's "Jekyll and Hyde"pion Ray "Boom Boom" Mancini won a unanimous decision over routine is easy to explain -in theBritain's George Feeney in a close I0-round non-title fight yesterday. 
first half, the Gamecocks saggedIt was Mancini's first fight since his tragic title defense against back in a 2-3 zone to shut off NO'sKorean challenger Duk Koo Kim last Nov. 13 in Las Vegas, Nev. Kim inside game, but allowing the Irishdied of head injuries suffered in the bout, and Mancini for a while to fill it up from the outside.
contemplated quitting boxing in the fight's aftermath. -AP 
"They looked at our LaSalle game (a 68-56 Irish victory Wednesday) and saw that we pounded it inside early," said Kempton. who is averag­
AJ. Foyt joined Frenchmen Bob Wollek and Claude Ballot­

ing 12 points a game. "They wanted Lena in a Porsche Turbo 935 in charging to victory in the 24-Hour 
to shut offour inside game, but then Pepsi Challenge sports car endurance race yesterday. The winning 
they had to stop Paxson, too. I was car, the seventh straight turbo-charged 35 to win this International 
wide open in the second half." Motor Sports Association Camel GT event, completed 618 laps and 
Jimmy Foster, however, was not. 2,373.12 miles, finishing six laps ahead of the second-place 
The 6-8 junior center had just five Chevrolet-March 83G prototype of Randy Lanier, Terry Wolters and 
points and seven rebounds -he Marty Hinze. -AP 
averages 18 and 8, respectively ­and was never a factor. 
"We did an excellent job defensively against Foster," said Phelps. "I was more concerned with
Dallas quarterback DannyWhite, who sat 

him than with anyone else, and we on the sidelines with an injury as the Cowboys lost the National did an excellent job taking him outFootball Conference title game this season, threw an l 1-yard scoring ofthe game."
pass to Green Bay wide receiver John Jefferson with 35 seconds "They did a very good job ofremaining to give the NFC a 20-19 victory over the American Con­denying Foster the ball," addedference Sunday in the Pro Bowl. Washington's Mark Moseley, who Steinwedel. "Jimmy was getting aearlier had missed three field goals and had another blocked, made little frustrated. Notre Dame is the 
the extra point to give the NFC the deciding margin. -AP only team to stop him like that this season." Foster's previous season low was six points against Purdue and Rider.
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will 
As a result, Carolina had to resort 
be meeting tomorrow at 8 p.m. in Saint Ed's Chapel. All are invited. 
to a free-lance offense that produced 
-The Observer 
20 points for guard Jimmy Haw­thorne but a total of only three as­sists as a team. 
Anvone who saw Phelps' reaction at th~ final buzzer realized the im­portance of the victory to him. At 
game's end, Phelps strolled to center court and thanked the students, who let it all loose for the first time in two months. 
"The crowd really got behind us, and that helped a lot," said Phelps. "Right now, we're halfway to the (NCAA) tournament. We've beaten Marquette and South Carolina, and now we have to beat DePaul (Feb. 
26) and Dayton (Mar. 7). Ifwe beat the independents and end up with 18 or 19 wins, that should do it." 
IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame begins a critical three-game road trip Thursday night against Fordham in the R\·rne Meadowlands Arena in 
East Rutherford, N.J....The journey continues Saturday at North Carolina State, and then concludes a week from Wednesday at Pitt_ .. Both Fordham and N.C. State scored impressive victories.over the Irish at the ACC last season . . . Phelps on 
the Sluby-Rucker situation: "I found 
out they each cut a class this week, 
and that's always been my rule: you 
cut a class, you sit the next game out. 
It's that simple." . . . Notre Dame 
continued its torrid shooting, hitting 
56 percent Saturday. SC hit 49 per­
cent. NO is also hitting 56 percent for the season, which is second in the nation to New Orleans (57 per­cent) ... Paxson scored 13 points, with Price and Bill Varner dumping in 12. 
Saturday's Result 

Notre Dame 66, South Carolina 56 
South Carolina (56) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Jergenson 23 0-6 1-2 1 1 1 .foster 36 2-7 1-2 7 5 5 Kendall 27 4-7 0-2 1 1 8 Peacock 36 4-6 2-2 2 10 Hawthorne 27 9-10 2-3 1 20 Darmody 8 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 Mart1n 13 3-6 1-2 2 1 7 Holmes 19 1·4 3-4 3 3 5 Bntta1n 4 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Sanderson 7 0-0 0-0 1 0 
200 23-47 10-17 19 14 56 

FG Pet. 489 FT Pet -588 Team 
rebounds -5. Turnovers -11 Ass1sts -3 
(Jergenson. Foster, Kendall 1). Techmcals ­
None 
Notre Dame (66) 
M FG·A FT-A R F P 

Dolan 35 2-5 2-2 9 3 6 
Pnce 33 6-10 0-0 2 4 12 
Kempton 31 7-9 5-5 4 2 19 
Paxson 40 6-14 1-2 0 2 13 
Duff 8 0-1 2-2 0 0 2 
Varner 35 6-10 0-0 5 3 12 
Barlow 13 1-1 0-2 0 1 2 
Andree 5 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 
200 28-50 10-13 20 15 66 

FG Pet .560 FT Pet. · 769. Team 
rebounds -4 Turnovers -9 Ass1sts -18 
(Paxson. Varner 5). Techntcals-None. 
Halft1me -Notre Dame 26. South Carolina 
22 Offlc1als -Tom Rucker (B1g Ten). M1ke 
Stockner (B1g Ten). John Moreau (ACC). A­
11.345 (C) 
• • • Hockey 
continuedfrompage 12 
amidst the Redskin glory, Bjork scored his second of the night at 
4:44. Higgins battled for the puck and dropped it oft· for Bjork who neatly put it between Chevrier's legs. 
At I0:05 the score was 5-4 and the Redskins were aggressively pursu­ing the Irish lead. After nine score­less minutes, the Redskins pulled Chevrier. Chapman cleared the zone and Bjork chased the puck down and fired into the empty net for his fourth hat trick of the season and a 6-4 final score. 
In the second half of the season (only ten games). Bjork has col­lected 14 goals and 12 assists. 
"The entire series was a little dis­appointing due to Friday night," Smith said. "At the same time, I'm proud of how well the kids played on Saturday. They turned the weekend around and showed a lot of fortitude." 
After the split, Notre Dame is 9­19-1 in CCHA conference action. The Irish will be at home next weekend to play Bowling Green, the tlrst place team, as they continue to battle for a playotl' position. 

The Observer wtll accept class1f1eds Mon­day through· Fnday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p.m. However. class1f1eds to appear 1n lhe next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. lhe business day pnor to 1nsert1on All classtfieds must be prepa1d.
Classifieds 
etther m person or through the ma11 

FOUND A book and gloves tn 207 Cus­Augh• Need nde to Dekalb. Ch1cago. or TWO ROOMS WITH BATH ALL CATCH THAT SOPH. SPIRIT! SENIORS htng Call Ttm at 8428 to clatm ANYWHERE on way. Feb 11-13. Help' UTILITIES PAID MALE PREFFERED VOTE: Anne Marie KOLLMAN-Pres. FOR 1983-84 VOLUNTEER WORK
NOTICES 

Patnck x 1600 PRIVATE ENTERANCE 2880955 Sheila FLOOD-V.P. WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES IN Kathi HARTWEGER-Sec'y SEVERAL US CITIES, APPLICATIONSLOST 1/2 carat dtamond on gold set1tng Gretchen WROBLEWSKI-Tres. DUE FEBRUARY 8TH. CALL MARYfor necklace e1ther 1n Bus1ness Bldg or HELP' I need a nde to PITTSBURGH 


on Feb. 10 ANN ROEMER, 7949.
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ACC on Wednesday. 2/2 Call 277·0458 area weekend of Feb 11-13 or back on 
Feb 14' W1ll share usual Please call TER­TYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082 RI x6797 . SMC Class ot 85 · 
early AM 

PERSONALS 
LOOK FOR THE WOMEN MOVIE 


Vote lor LOST NO CLASS RING( 83). NAME WEEK
Surplus Jeeps. cars and trucks ava1lable Cars Hagemar 
INSIDE: LOST POSSIBLY AT Tontght Resurrectton 7 30. $1. SMC

Many sell for under $200 Call 312-743-FOR SBP/SBVP Michelle Lopez SMC(MOREAU-0 LAUGHLIN HALL). Carroll HaiP•o
1143 Ext 7316 for 1nlormahon on how to Marti Jones
Vote LISA & MIKE

FOR SALE
LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND OF t/28­

Mary Ann Potter 1/30. IF YOU HAVE aNY INFO PLEASE SMAK' They have many new 1deas.and the ex­purchase An unbeatable pa1r 

A learn you wtllltke 

CALL 283-3346 MEET A KISSER. Sponsored by Sentor
Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car, Friday Salvador-Carltn Feb 8 pene'nce to see them through! 
Class Send a cert1f1i:::ate redeemable tor a

ATIENTIONII LOSTII!t NOTRE DAME class rtng A KISS to your tavonte' On sale Monday
noon til Monday noon $29.95 includes !t!l'sWEATSUITS FOR SALE!It!
150 free miles. Sales tax & insurance PSYCH/MICROBIO CLUB NIGHT AT GOLD ladtes dtnner rtng. wtth a GOLD TOP BRAND, FAMOUS DESIGNER through Frtday. t 1 OOAM-1 OOPM. Feb
extra. Phone Rob for reservations 259-A YEAR OF SERVICE SA BAR TONIGHT! DRINK SPECIALS. 
stone lnscnp110n on 1nS1de IS--8 8 F 84 SWEATSUITS, REGULARLY $82 NOW 7-11. For only 25 cents tn LAFORTUNE
8459. HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES ONE RAFFLE WINNER ANNOUNCED' 1 Opm· 
--If found please call BRIDGET at 8565. ONLY $30!! CALL GREG AT 8291 OR Send a K1ss for Valent1ne s Day--s•gn up tam
YEAR POSTGRAD WORK. MANY or JIM at 3274 Or come by 325 Lewts or TIM AT 16511 THEY'RE GOING FAST now '!!!1!!
2&o OFF the pnce of a student !Jekel With REWARDS HELPING THOSE WHO 
216 Keenan Please help" THANK YOU'!

thtS ad and an 10 The Acttng Company SO HURRY! NEED YOU. DEADLINE FEBRUARY 8. 
DISTRICT ONE STUDENTS TIRED of I d sttll love to gel you on a slow boat Iffor the Kennedy Center presents CALL MARY ANN ROEMER, CENTER 
LOST A PAIR OF NAVY BLUE NYLON ADMINISTRATION B S ? Well. counter you lind you re not docked tn the nght
Shakespeare s THE TWELFTH NIGHT FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, 7949. 
.RUNNING PANTS ON MONDAY JAN 31 wtth a ltttle B S of your own' BILL SMITH port. Ill help you set satl agatn p s. It wzs8 00 PM. Feb t2. at Cenlury Cenler Box THEY WERE DROPPED SOMEWHERE FOR STUDENT SENATOR a lovely cru1se No apolog1es. please 

offtce 284-9111 ATIENTION!
FOR RENT
BETWEEN LEWIS AND GRACE IF II!!SWEATSUITS FOR SALE!It! 

FOUND PLEASE CALL KEVIN x1592 JUNIOR CLASS VALENTINE Its b•rthday t•me for Bonzo! Happy 19th

TOP BRAND, FAMOUS DESIGNER OATENIGHT'! FEB 10. ltx on sale Mon­0 W We love you The quadoubSWEATSUITS, REGULARLY $82 NOW day
LOST/FOUND \ 

LATENIGHTISBEST NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT 
ONLY $301' CALL GREG AT 8291 OR 
Coptes of Mtchelle and R•ta Murphy'sSCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO GOOD TIM AT 16511 THEY'RE GOING FAST Dearest Scoundrel. There IS nothtng I can parents letter to the student body are
AREAS 2773604 SO HURRY! say that celebrates the spec1al way you available rn the Campus M1n1Stry otf1ces 
keep me sat1sfled Love (around the Badtn Hall and library Lost A brown wtnter tacket at Campus EARN MONEY AND EXPERIENCE BY
I WANTED 

STUDENT RENTAL. 4·BEDROOM clock). Bub.bles 
Vtew Apt 207 If you ptcked tt up by SELLING SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISINGHOUSE CALL 232-4057. 272·7767 To the g1rl who was work1ng 1n E-hne of m1stake. call J•m at 3632 The JaCket was GALL BRIAN AT 1082 OR 239-7569. 
ARTIFICIAL BIRTH CONTROL Is there North Otntng Hall al abut 1 00 lnday after· 
lost at the party on Frtday t /28/83 Need nde to Holland or Grand Rap1ds. 
4 bdrm furn•shed house. near campus another way? YES Natural Fam1ly Plan­noon -w1th the long brown ha1r -weanng a Mtch on Feb 11 or 12 Mary 7994 
ATIENTION SMCII!
On Notre Dame Ave Good condtl•on 9 ntng •s SAFE. HEALTHY. EFFECTIVE purple-ttnted sweater YOU'RE A SUPER LOST GOLD SEIKO WATCH LEFT IN ELECT 
mo lease $335 per mo Call 684-0933 and MORALLY ACCEPTABLE Every· LOOKING LADY It would be an honor to LOCKER AT THE ROCK ON 1124/83 IF WANTED Rtde to Terre Haute or Indy on (local calli Elaine HOCTER SPB one 1nv1ted to learn more Mon Feb. 7. meet you Stncerely. The Guy Who Has FOUND. PLEASE CALL GARY AT Lee Ann FRANKS VPSA
Feb 11-13 Ltsa x3352 7pm. Hayes-Healey Aud Engaged and Been Stanng At You All Week at Lunch x4388 REWARD$$$ Madeline HOCH VPAA

NEAT & NEAR NO. FURN. 2 BDR POS­marned couples cal1237-7401 to reg•ster
Student Body Officers!
MAINE. BOSTON. OR PORTSMOUTH I SIBLY 3. AVAIL IMMEDIATELY 233· for class starttng on campus Wed Feb.9 
Scan.
Vote Thurs. Feb. 10NEED A RiDE THERE FOR BREAK
LOST Yellow folder With Notre Dame , 7631 Happy 19th
PLEASE CALL KEITH AT 8857

emblem on the front e1'her last Monday or ALRIGHT, WHO PUT THE From the prtvtleged lew at McCandless Tuesday (211 Or 2/2) labeled Chnsttan NEEDED. MALE ROOMMATE TO Untlateral Nuclear Freeze? USA USSR 0 PROPHYLACTICS ON THE P S Any phone calls from Chteago Scnptures· If found please call Oebb•e Augh! Need nde to Dekalb. Chtcago. or SHARE APARTMENT AT CAM· PUS MILK DISPENSERS????
UNLIMITED Push for Btlateral Agree· lately? My boyfnend goes to N.D Bet 234-7961 Thanks. anywhere on way HELP!Pat x1600 VIEW INQUIRE AT 277-1708 
ments Vote NO on Feb 8 you showed her a good ttme . 
,,­

The Observer Monday, February 7, 1983 -page I 0 
... Women 

HELP!! 

Ombudsmnn needs volunteers to nnswer phonesfor lhour n week. Help nnswer N.D.'s questions nnd 
N.D.'s complnints. 

Cnll 239-6283 nnd help OBUD help the 
cnmpus. 

continuedfrom page 12 

to the Notre Dame staff hy running a 
very familiar game plan. 

"Every defense tbey called was one we had ran back at Northwes­tern," said Murphy. 
"They didn't run anything that we didn't know about," said Oing. "And I don;t really think 1 ran anything th:n they didn't know about." 
Notre Dame wa~ able to reverse Iowa State·~ last good run when it cruised into halftime with a 12-"> spurt in ·!:50. That ~taked the Irish to their biggest lead of the hal( --!0-:H. 
Tht: ~purt wa~ highlighted by a sweet pa~s from Kaher to senior for­ward Shari Matvey. Kaiser led :'llotre Dame with six assists. 
Sch~:uth scored six of ND's first eight s~:cond-half points as the Irish refused to relinquish momentum, jumping to a I0-point lead that Iowa State could never melt to less than 
eight. 
Key to the NO stand was Scheuth's ability to establish herself under­neath the bucket. But it was a lead from her that led to the day's most spectacular play, a magnificent un­derhand layup hy Ruth Kaber that 'left the crowd-not to mention the 
Cyclones -breathless. 
freshman guard Denise Basti.Jrd's 
steal and breakaway layup put the 
Irish up, 6-t-">·f; with 1:50 remaining 
left the Cyclones looking tiJr the 
next tlight to Arne~. Iowa, and the 
Irish safely looking forward to 
friday's challenge. 
A group of students sitting under 
the South Dome's west bucket 
decided to look tiJrward as well. 
chanting "We want Tech. we \\·ant 
Tech." 
While they may want Tech today, 
they may change their minds a bit 

Friday when the powerful two-time defending national champions arrive. 
IRISH ITEMS -The afternoon marked the return of ~otre Dame legend Maggie Lally. The ">·0 guard captained DiStani!'>lao's tlrst Irish squad, the school's tlrst Division I team. Lally, a native of Sharon. Pa.: was a second-team academic all­America in li)HO-H 1. Today. Lally is a 
second-ye;.r medical student at the l'niversity of Pittsburgh. . '\lurplw and Voss wne joined bv a pair o.f their 19HO Wildcat teammates at the game. Murphv wore :\'orthwestern purple to mark the reunion ... An­
other chapter in the too-long medi­cal history of _knny Klauke: th.: junior fonvard will have her right ti>ot X-rayed Thursday ti.H a possible stress fracture . . Schueth led the Irish with eight rebounds . 
Most consistent effort 
Irish run past Lady Ramblers 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team, coming ofl'ofa tough West Coast road trip on which it was soundly beaten twice, took out its frustrations on Loyola University of Chicago Friday. The Irish never trailed, heating the Lady Ramblers, 80-61, in the ACC. 
"We made some mistakes, but this 
was one of the most consistent ef~ 
forts of the year," said Irish coach 
Mary DiStanislao. "It's encouraging." 
It did not take long for Notre Dame to remove all doubt that its two-game losing streak was going to come to an end. Guard Laura Doug­herty pumped in a 10-footjumperaf­ter the Irish had won the tip to get things moving. It was not until more 
than three minutes were gone in the 
game and Notree Dame was ahead 6-0 
that Loyola scored its first points. 
Behind the offense of senior Shari Matvey, who scored 12 points in the game's first 1 1 minutes, the Irish quickly jumped out to an 11-point lead with nine minutes left in the halt: It never got closer than 10 after that. 
When Dougherty grabbed a rebound and banked it through the basket as the tlrst half ran out, the Irish had a comfortable 40-28 lead. 
It took about seven minutes ofthe 
second half for Notre Dame to put 
the game out of reach. In that time, 
the Irish outscored the Ramblers 21­
8 and moved out to a 25-point lead. 
Loyola finally started making some ofthe shots that would not fall during the first 30 minutes, but it could not make up the ground it had lost. The final margin was as close liS it would get. 
"We needed a good team effort af­

ter a tough weekend," said DiStanis­lao, referring to the defeats at Arizona State and UCLA. "The kids know that two losses does not a season make." 
The Loyola game was very similar 

to the Maryland game last month. 
That game also was not close on the 
scoreboard. but was close in most of 
the other statistical categories: The 
only significant difference in the 
Loyola and Notre Dame statistics 
was a large Irish advantage in steals. 
That figure (the Irish had 16 total steals) showed how a swarming Irish defense had taken away most of the Rambler offense. 
Notre Dame denied Loyola any kind of inside attack, collapsing on the player with the ball and knock­ing it away from her many times. This pressure held forward jackie Huszti, Loyola's leading scorer, to eight points, more than l 0 points below her average. 



Attention Grad Students and Faculty 
Voting on the unilateral Nuclear Freeze referendum and the Cambell Boycott referendum will take place on Tuesday, February 8, 11:00 AM -4:00 PM in LaFortune Student Center, Main Lobby. You must have NO I.D. to vote. 
**Off-campus undergrads also vote in LaFortune, 11:00 AM· 4:00PM 
.. 


Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive yourself with a well­rounded meal from Domino's Pizza. We'll 
help smooth the wrinkles out of your day. Domino's Pizza 
® Delivers.·· 
Ask about our party discounts. 
© 1983 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 

,......................., 
Fast. .. Free Delivery Call us. 277-2151 
1835 S. Bend Ave. 
Plaza 23 Center 
Open for lunch 11 am-1am Sun.· Thurs. 11am-_2am Fri.& Sat. 
Coke/16 oz. cups 

I On-ly I 1 $7 49
I • 
1 
I 
1
1
I 
I 

For a 16" 1-item pizza I plus 4 cups of Coke! I 
Coupon value $2.25. I (Tax not included.) I Good Mondays only. 
1
Expires in 2 weeks. I 
Fast, Free Delivery 1
1
1835 S. Bend Ave. I Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277·2151 
I 
1® Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 1 1 Umlted delivery area. 1
I I
29s3212sso 

L ••••••••••••••••••••• .J 
THURSDAY, FEB.10 DINNER AND MOVIEAT 100CENTER. ONLY$10 PER COUPLE. CARAVAN WILL LEAVE 
N.D. CIRCLE AT 6:30P.M. TICKETS ON SALE MONDAY, FEB. 7, 7-8 P.M. IN 
THE NAZZ. CALL 6874 OR 7289 FOR MORE INFO. 



IheCIKerYer======================================== 
~~4()l~~=============================M=o=n=d=ay='=F=eb=r=u=a=ry=7=,,=1=9=8=3=-=p=ag=e==ll= 
Bloom County . 
''51N0<.£, RW·H€AP£P 
ftMFil£ 23, stNSVAl.,rN1EU/G£WT. ~~rcrous ; 5E£J<5 SHORT, FU6HTJ£:iS, 


Simon 
Fate 
M'< '101.1. C.OIN~ TO 
VOTE IN fit£ FU><. BQltOH THIN(,? 
~JI.K! 
WHAT DO I CA!tf AOOUf 
HI <!RANTS ANP UNSK1u£D 
WOI{J£1:$. WHY, [ OON·r THIN'-TilAI I'Yf: EVH EVEN SEEN ON£ BEFOI:f. 
I 



The Daily Crossword 

© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 217183 All Rights Reserved 
1HFINK5. HE.R€0'5 
MY NVME£R IF 
1 CXT WOO. 

Af(( YOlA 0. K­MUFTY? ~~~ . 

ACROSS 30 Golden 
1 Provender Fleece man 
5 Today's 32 Building 
fashion part 
9 Wading bird 34 Spanish 13 Depend painter 14 Type of 35 Clinic 
aircraft worker 16 Stake 36 Hillside, 17 Met, e.g. to Burns 18 Click 37 Heavenly 
beetle Altar 19 Calendar 38 Wittily 
abbr. improper 20 Goose genus 39 Mental 21 Satchel strength 23 Except 40 Skein 25 Briny 42 Vocation 26 Puts on 43 Kind of 
guard school 29 Tiny 44 Arboreal particle animals 
Friday's Solution 

Berke Breathed 

AS G0{7 15 
MY WITNE.S5, 1 HFIV€N'T1Hf. FAIN1EST I~FI 
)eb Cashin 
Photius 
YEAH, I'M O.K., BUT I WISH MAINT£NANCE WOULDN'T ltFWt THIN4.\" LYIN4 AROIAND LIKf THAf. 

Campus 
•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Search for Casimir forces in Atomic Helium," Dr. Stephen R. Lundeen, I I H NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Serontonin Ac­tion and Distribution in the Lobster Homurus americanus," Dr. Barbara Beltz, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6 
p.m. -Student Senate Meeting, Room 2C, LaFortune 

• 
.., p.m. -Presentation, "An Introduction to Natural family Planning," :\1r. and Mrs Tim Ful­necky, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, Hayes Hea­ly Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "The Navigator," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•7:30 
p.m. -Women and Films Series, "Resurrection," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, 


Si 

•7:30 
p.m. -Teach-In, A Discussion on the ;'v1oral, Political and Economic Aspects of the Nuclear Freeze, LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by The Two-Campus Freeze Coalition 

•H 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, St. Ed's Hall 

•H 
p.m. -New York Philharmonic, WSND-FM HH.9 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Hluc An­gel," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 


I 

T.V. Tonight 
7:30p.m. 16 · All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
8p.m. 16 Little House A New Beginning 22 Square Pegs 28 The Winds of War 34 Front Line 
8:30p.m. 22 Filthy Rich 
9p.m. 16 NBC Monday Night at the Movie~ 22 M-A-S-H 34 Great Performances 
9:30p.m. 22 Newhart 10p.m. 22 Cagney and Lacev 11 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22Eyewitnes' New~ 28 Newswatch 2H 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 TrapperJohn and Columho 28 ABC :\ew' :"o:ightline 
12:30 p.m. 16 Late :\ight With David Letterman 
The Far Side 
! Freeze! ... Something rattled!" 
-
• 
... 

low€st PRtc€s In town! now at IRtsh (}aRb€ns: Pow€RS anb plants CjaloR€. 


0Rb€R now to CjuaR€nt€€ ROS€S 
S3.Y 1~ UW1th ROS€S Op€n 12:30-5:30 batly Just btal mums 
Why you should go to Florida with the Student Union!! To Meet Reason N 4 New Friends 
Over 1200 students from other schools will be at the plaza. Last year 8,000 went on this trip and thoroughly enjoyed it. 100 were from Notre Dame! .. 
A Young, Fun Environment. 
~--·.-.·.-........J"J"......J'..........J"............J'ri'..........J'J'J'...............................,. 
45 Hells Canyon state 

48 Woeful word 49 Took tiffin 51 Royal 
affair 54 Twofold 55 Florida 
region 56"-boy!" 57 Red and 
Black 58 Farm animals 59 Existed 
DOWN 1 Alumnus, for short 
2 Those who restore buildings 

3 Fiercely faithful 4 Tournament 
status 5 Delhi money 6 Gibbons 7 Teut. · 8 Period 9 Oklahoman 
10 Responsi· 

bility 11 Elevation 12 Maple genus 14 Pickle 15 Smooth of 
face 19 Lilliputian 22 -bean 23 Impertinent 24 Century 

plant 25 Grandiose story 
27 City on the Wabash 28 Alabama or Georgia, 
once 30 Dixie drink 31 Knack 33 Suggestive 
look 35 Church part 36 Comedian 
Lahr 38 South Seas attire 39 Greek temple 41 Spartan magistrates 42 Family groups 44 Plumlike 
fruits 45 Desserts 46 "The Wings 
of the-" 47 Kind of 
code 48 Sidekick 50 Spirit 52 Thirst 
quencher 53 Playing marble 54 Small amount 

-~---~---~

..-------------~---~··----­
' 
Monday, February 7, 1983-page 12
Snorts 
Second half heroics 
Kempton leads Irish over S.C. 
By CHRIS NEEDLES rebounder who is also in the nati:>n's what we've had to do to take control Sports Editor top ten in field goal percentage (66 after halftime." percent). Meanwhile, on offense, So, for one of the few times all 
Two of his teammates, two key Phelps strived to break the SC zone season, the Irish went for the jugular performers in the home stretch of with effective outside shooting. -and got it -at the start of the most Notre Dame games this season, Notre Dame executed the plan second half. were out ofcommission. perfectly in the first halt~ hitting 52 A l.f-5 spurt in the first six 
So Tim Kempton did what any percent of its shots while holding minutes, keyed hy Kempton and fel­future all-American would do. He Foster to one basket. But, because of low freshman Joseph Price, gave took the game into his own hands, SC's advantage i .n free throw at­Notre Dame its biggest lead, 40-27. and as a result led his team one giant tempts (eight to zero) and on the The Gamecocks were able to inch 
step closer to an NCAA Tournament boards ( 1 5-9), the Gamecocks back within six points with 6:33 to bid. trailed just 26-22 at the half, despite go, but that was as close as they 
Kempton scored 19 points -all 41 percent FG shooting. would get. in the second half-to lead the Irish "We knew at halftime that being "The key was Notre Dame coming to a crucia166-56 victory over South up by four just wasn't enough," said o.ut in the second half and opening Carolina ( 14-6) before a sellout Phelps. "We knew it was important up a 13-point lead." said South I I ,345 Saturday night at the ACC. to score on our first possession of Carolina interim coach Steve Stein­
Kempton's heroics were just as the second half. In previous' games wedel, who b tilling in this season crucial for Notre Dame, which like Villanova (a 61-55 loss last for the recuperating Bill Foster, who played the second half with an inef­month), our lead disappeared. Hut in 
See MEN, page 9fective John Paxson (one-of-five, each game since, we've been doing three points after halftime) and an absent Tom Sluby, who along with 

.... fellow junior Cecil Rucker, was benched by Irish coach Digger 
Women defeat I.S.U.,
Phelps for cutting a class last week. But. no matter how much adver­sity the Irish· faced on Saturday, 
look forward to Tech 
there was really no question that they would emerge victorious. 
By MIKE RICCARDI Keys blocked a Jane \1cConnell
"Going into this game, we had to 
Sports Writer shot and followed that defensive
make a committmenr to win," said 
gem with a head~-up swipe of the
Phelps, whose team jumped to I 2-7. 
Perhaps the Notre Dame women's ball from \1cConnell. That sequence
"There was just no doubt about it ­
basketball team could have been allowed the Irish to regain the lead,
we were going to win this game. A 
excused for looking ahead to their sparking an I 1-3 run.
win like this over a major independ­
next game -you know, the one The game, though not low­
ent gives us credibility (for a tourna­
against No. I Louisiana Tech -but scoring, turned into a defensive ment bid)." 
the Z's you heard from the ACC yes­battle with the Irish women gaining
Phelps' gameplan on defense was 
terday were from the hum of a buz­the upper hand.
Tim Kempton's spirited second halfpaced the Irish to a 66-56 

to keep the ball away from 
zsaw, rather than from an attack of "The first half score was a little
victory• over the South Carolina Gamecocks. See Chris Needles' 

Gamecock standout forward Jimmy 
narcilepsy.
story at right. (Photo by Scott Bower) higher than I'd have wanted," said
Foster, Carolina's leading scorer and 
Notre Dame, now 14-6, needed DiStanislao. "I didn't want to get into no excuses as Iowa State University a Big Eight game where the team 
-
was the victim ofthe buzzsaw, losing that scores last wins. We kept the
Bjork hat trick 
69-58. game out of the HO's, where we The Irish women used a balanced wanted it." attack, as NO's leading f(mr scorers Notre Dame was able to play at a
leers split series with Redskins 
split 54 points between them (Mary pace comfortable for them. The Irish Beth Schueth and Ruth Kaiser put up only 42 shots to Iowa State'sByJANE HEALEY situation, Miami scored four power was an unassisted goal by Redskin shared NO scoring honors with 14 frantic 63, hut connected on one
Sports Writer play goals. Andy Cozzi. Notre Dame's John apiece, while Laura Dougherty and more than the Cyclones. Notre"Part of that is the local officiat­Deasey had just finished serving a Trena Keys chipped in 13 each). Dame's superior accuracy from theOXFORD, Ohio It was a ing," said Smith. "They let a lot of big sticking penalty when Cozzi beat "That's exactly what you want," field this afternoon was the game's
weekend of the lowest of lows and major infractions go and then they Benning on a break away to score on said Coach Mary DiStanislao. "It's decisive factor.
the highest of highs for the Notre pick at the little things." McNamara who had rerurned to the important to get a lot of good ef­"It was good to be in control ofDame hockey team at Miami of The Irish defense, including the Notre Dame line-up. 
forts." the tempo." said DiStanislao. "WeOhio. The Redskins slaughtered the goaltending, lacked intensity. After Kirt Bjork countered with his Sophomore
Irish 9-2 on Friday. but the Irish put the first period, Bob McNamara was twentieth goal of the season at guard Dougherty ran the game at a manageable pace." 
started to work on a fired-up ISU DiStanislao and Assistant Coachit back togather for a 6-4 victory on replaced in the Irish net by freshman 12:20. Chapman skated into the defense early, popping jumpers Mary Ellen Murphy were able to ef­
Saturday. Mickey Kappele. McNamara made Miami zone drawing Chevrier wide from 1 5, 10 and 13 feet to break the fectively control the Iowa State at­
When it rains it pours, and Friday seven saves and let in t1ve goals from his net. Chapman quickly Cyclones' 2-1-2 zone. Senior guard tack. ISU head coach Deb Oing, a
night was a storm. Everything that while Kappele racked up 28 saves dumped to Bjork down the middle could go wrong did go wrong for the and gave up four ofthe goals. who tipped in the fourth Irish goal. Jolene Leseman, who led all scorers former assistant to DiStanislao at 
with 20, matched Dougherty to pace Northwestern, and Cyclone assis­
lrish. "We weren't ready to play," In the third period, Miami made a Iowa State's early offense, which tant Vicky Voss, Murphy's Nl' run­
"Everything was bad," Coach McNamara said. "We lacked a lot of run for it with three power play allowed the Cyclone women to ning mate at guard, showed their ties
Lefty Smith said. "From one end of energy and it looked like we didn't goals in the first ten minutes. But stake themselves to an early four­
the ice to the other, we were bad." care." 
See HOCKEY, page 9 point advantage. See WOMEN, page 10
Offensively, the Irish could not On Saturday, the Irish redeemed connect oo their passes consequent­themselves and turned the tables on ly having difficulty moving the puck. the Reskins. They failed to put pressure on In the first period, Notre Dame Redskin goalie, Alain Chevrier, and pressured Chevrier with 13 shots on were out shot by Miami 44-29. goal while the Redskins could only 
The slow start of the Irish put get eight shots off. Captain John Hig­them i.n a bind they could never gins' line, responsible for so much of battle out of. Miami scored the first the Irish offensive attack, finally four goals of the game and led S-1 broke loose of a tenacious man-for­after the first period. man defense that kept them silent on 
The first of the two Irish goals Friday. came at 17:27 of that period. With Higgins got things rolling on an RedskinJoe Block in the penalty box Irish power play at 11 :34. Brent for high sticking, captain Mark Chapman faked a shot on Chevrier 
... 
Doman's line was on the power play. and passed cross ice to Joe Bowie Doman took the puck from behind who took the goalie wide left. Bowie the Miami net and centered to Rex hit Higgins in the slot and he tipped Bellomy who sneaked it into the cor­the puck into the open corner. ner for his fifth goal of the season. On he next power play, Chapman 
Freshman Mark Benning scored made the score 2-0. Benning the only other Irish goal 36 seconds blocked a Miami attept to clear the into the third period. Going into the zone and fired a shot that bounced period, the Redskins led 7-1 after off Chevrier's pads onto Chapman's two second period tallies. Benning stick. Chapman easily slid the puck fired a slap shot from the point in the net for his seventeenth goal of through a crowd of people past the the year. distracted Chevrier. 'At 14:54, Chevrier tried to block a 
Miami countered with two more hard slap shot off the stick of Bowie. goals to finish off the 9-2 final score. But the puck was only partially Penalties plagued the Irish. There deflected and it dribbled behind 
were 11 whistles against Notre Chevrier for a 3-0 lead after one Rex Bellomy, shown here tipping in a goal ... Dame fo.· a total of 28 penalty period. against the Redskins in an earlier game, and the minutes. Taking advatage of the The first goal ofthe second period rest of the Irish split last weekend's series with 


I 
.~ 
I' 





