
~~-~ -~ ~---~ ~-~~ 
• • Mr. Goodbar-page 6 
• 

VOL. XVII, NO. 132 the: indc:pc:ndc:nt studc:nt nc:w:-.papc:r serving notre Jame and saint mary's TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 1983 
American casualties 
Terrorists blast embassy 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)-A pick· U.S. Army Capt. Alfred Martin told rubble of his top-floor office by up truck packed with explosives reporters he identified two dead climbing out onto a balcony, then blew up the seven-story facade of American soldiers at the morgue of re-entering on a lower floor. He suf­the U.S. Embassy's main section the American University Hospital. fered minor cuts and said the bomb­during the lunch hour yester<!ilY· He did not give their names, but they laden vehicle may have crashed and Lebanese authorities said at least were believed part of a a special ad­through a barricade. 39 people were killed, includingfive visory group assisting in the rebuild­"I was standing up with a Americans. Police said 120 people ing of the Lebanese army. telephone in one hand and a T-shirt were wounded. Private radio stations said more in the other. I was preparing to go 
Apolice official said five American than 40 people were killed in the ex­out and jog, when all ofa sudden my deaths had been confirmed and six plosion, and that several bodies office collapsed," the ambassador other Americans were unaccounted were blown into the Mediterranean told reporters. for. He said 22 Americans were from the embassy compound on the "I was unable to move. Someone wounded. seafront in west Beirut's mostly Mos­picked the rubble off me. My 
The American dead reportedly in­lem Ein Mreisseh neighborhood. secretary and my deputy, Bob Pugh, cluded a Marine, two soldiers and an The facade of the main embassy sec­pushed the rubble off me. I went out employee of the Agency for Interna­tion was torn offby the bomb. the window and down a few floors tional Development. U.S. Ambassador Robert Dillon, and then out." 
It was the worst attack against a who was preparing to jog when the 
see BEIRUT, page 6 
U.S. target in Lebanon, and a pro· bomb went off, escaped from the Iranian terrorist group, Moslem Ho· ly War, claimed responsibility. 
The police official, who declined 
ND names honorary 
to be identified in accorance with government regulations, said eight of the . confirmed dead were 


degree recip,ients 
Lebanese and the other 26 had not been identified. He said 98 Lebanese By MARK WORSCHEH Others receiving honorary doc­were wounded. News Editor torates include: 
Police said the front ofthe seaside • John Burgee is a 1956 Notre embassy was blown out by 500 The University confirmed yester­Dame alumnus and a leading ex­pounds of explosives packed into a day that Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, ponent ofthe post-modernist school vehicle which witnesses described archbishop of Chicago, will deliver ofarchitecture. From 1958 to 1967, as a "GMC pickup." But the police the commencement address May 15 he was a partner in the Chicago firm said it was not known if the ex­to Notre Dame's class of 1983. In ad­of C.F. Murphy Associates and was posives were set off by remote r-:;;-,. dition, nine other persons will involved in such major projects as trol or if the driver was still in it and receive honorary degrees, including O'Hare International Airport, the blew himselfup. John Duggan, president of Saint Chicago Civic Center and the ]. 
An earlier police report said the Mary's. Edgar Hoover FBI Building in Wash­vehicle was a gray car used by the The Observer reported yesterday ington. In 1967 he entered into Lebanese security police. that Bernardin, 55, would be the partnership with noted architect 
U.S. military personnel said one main speaker, but officials from the 
see DEGREES, page 6 

were among those killed when the versity both refused to confirm or car exploded in a ball offlame short· deny the report. ly after 1 p.m. (6 a.m. EST) on the Duggan has been president of After 'cowardly act' 
embassy's circular driveway. Saint Mary's since 1975. He Lebanese doctors at American graduated from Holy Cross college 
U.S. Marine and two U.S. soldiers Archdiocese ofChicago and the Uni­


Embassy security evaluated 
University Hospital said they and received his doctorate from counted six dead Marines at one Yale University. Duggan has spent a WASHINGTON (AP)-The U.S. plete improvements at 25 posts each to screen v1sttors and packages morgue. But a U.S. Marine gunnery quarter-century in higher educa­Embassy in Beirut, heavily damaged year. before admission to buildings. 
sergeant whose name could not be tion, including four years as assistant in a terrorist attack yesterday was John Redell of the General New barriers were added to the 
obtained told reporters all the em­dean of freshman at Yale and six among those diplomatic com­Accounting Office, which con­perimeter and lobby and consular bassy's Marine guards were ac­years as vice president ofstudent af­pounds where security was ducted a follow-up study that found section to protect against gunfire counted for and only one had been fairs and professor of psychology at tightened following the hostage­serious delays in the program, says and forced entry. killed. The victim was not named. Vassar College. 
taking in Iran. But experts say it's im­security needs at embassies has Larry Speakes, the White House possible to prevent all attacks -changed dramatically. deputy spokeman, said yesterday: especially suicide missions. "In the 1970s, State was gearing These things are difficult to protect A pro-Iranian terrorist group, its program up to protecting in­against. You do what you can. We've
RedSmith lecture 
Moslem Holy War, claimed respon­dividuals," he said. "The threats done what we can. This was clearly sibility for setting off explosives were against individuals. But in the unexpected." packed into a pickup truck, killing 1980s they are gearing up for The embassy building was virtual­

slatedfor tomorrow 
more than three dozen people. massive assaults, group assaults ..." ly closed during the recent fighting By MARK WORSCHEH to newspapers around the world, "It points out once again what a He said group assaults were some­in West Beirut because ofthe danger News Editor has been reporting from the nation's perilous occupation diplomacy has thing new and the new program was to Americans, and it was reopened 
capital for the past 3M years. He has become," said Dennis K. Hays, presi­intended to "buy time" until host only recently. 
New York Times columnist James won two Pulitzer Prizes for distin­dent of the American Foreign 
The embassy was considered a Reston will discuss the art of sports guished reporting, and he has Service Association, which TUESDAY''· prime target for terrorists, in part be­writing and its relevance to political received three Overses Press Club represents U.S. diplomatic person­cause of the close relationship be­writing in the inaugural Red Smith Awards for interpretation ofinterna­nel. tween the United States and Israel, Lecture in Journalism tomorrow tional news. Although the assoctatlon is which invaded Lebanon on June 6.
FOCUS

night at 8 p.m. in the Memorial The lecture honors Smith, a 1927 satisfied that American security ef­The embassy in Beirut was Library Auditorium. alumnus of Notre Dame who was forts abroad are "working pretty damaged by grenades in April 1979. Reston, whose twice-a-week considered one of America's well," he said. "when you have governments could provide suffi­A previously unknown group called 
"Washington" column is syndicated greatest sportswriters. He was a someone willing to die in the at­cient local police protection. "The Arab People" claimed respon­columnist for the New York Times tempt of an attack, it's very difficult The GAO, the investigatve arm of sibility. until his death at age 76 earlier this to stop." Congress, said last year that the More than a year later, in Septem­vear. Smith, the recipient of an The bombing ofthe Beirut embas­program was behind schedule, with ber 1980, a pro-Iranian group fired honorary degree from Notre Dame sy was the most serious assault on an work completed at only four posts. rocket-propelled grenades at the in 1968, is the only sportswriter to American embassy since a spate of The State Department said in building, inflicting some damage but win a Pulitzer Prize for commentary. attacks in 1979 -which included statement yesterday that significant no casualties. In May 1981, ex­
Reston, 73, has served the Times the taking of American hostages in improvements" had been made at tremists hit the embassy with rifle­as its Washington Bureau chief, its Tehran on Nov. 4, 1979, the burning the embassy in Beirut, and that all fired grenades. There was only associate editor, and its executve of the embassy in Islamabad, Pakis­planned improvements had been minor damage. editor. From 1969 until 1974, he tan, on Nov. 22 and the sacking of completed. Richard T. Kennedy, under was a vice president of the News the U.S. mission in Tripoli, Libya, less They included establishing secretary of state for management, York Times Company. He received than two weeks later. perimeter checkpoints to screen told the Senate Foreign Relations an honorary doctor of law degree In 1980, the State Department vehicles and visitors entering the Committee on June 10, 1981, that from Notre Dame in 1980. began a five-year program ofincreas­grounds, security posts manned by the State Department was 
ing protection at overseas Lebanese, security guards and 
see EMBASSY, page 5
see RESTON, page 6 

diplomatic posts -aiming to com-Marines and use of metal detectors 









News Briefs 
By lhe ( JIJsen•er and the Associated Press 
A bomb th.reatforced Notre Dame Security to evacuate several ofthe lower floors ofGrace Hall yesterday between 4:30p.m. and 5 p.m.. A bomb threat to section 3C ofthe hall was received, but a check by security found no bomb. -The Observer 
·Elections of faculty representatives to both the Campus Life Council and the Traffic Violations Appeals Board took place last night at the April meeting ofthe Faculty Senate. Jerry Marley ofCivil Engineering will serve on Campus Life Council and voted to the Traffic Violations Appeals Board was Kenneth Lauer, also from Civil Engineering. Also discussed at the monthly meeting were rec0mmendations to the provost, senate election procedures and the effectivenss of both the Academic Council and the Senate. Finally, Professeur Michael Crowe considered the preliminary results ofa study of the sabbatical policy of the Univer· sity ofNotre Dame in comparison with peer institutions.-The Ob· server 
The Kentucky Derbyis still a few weeks away, but the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky will meet tonight at 7:30 in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Nominations and elections ofofficers and discussion of next year's activities are on the agenda. -The Ob­
server 
"Ghand""1 d"treCtOr Sir Richard Attenborough bowed to widespread protests yesterday and announced he would not go to South Africa for the opening ofhis Oscar-winning film "Gandhi" un­less all performances were open to all races. Attenbrough, in a turn­around from his original plan to attend the whites-only premiere in Johannesburg this week, said he would to South Africa only if the entire "Gandhi" run was open to all races and no cinema had to apply for a government permit to show it to a racially-mixed audience. The conditions appeared to rule out Attenborough going to South Africa to promote his film about Mohandas K. Gandhi, the Indian pacifist who lived in South Africa in the early part of the century before helping to lead India to independence from Britain in 1947. South African cinemas are segregated under the national policy of apart­heid -racial separation -unless the white-minority government gives special permission for a multiracial audience. Attenborough, 59, said in a statement he had changed his mind about going to South Africa after being "inundated with messages and representations" from people who, like himself, opposed apartheid. "Some believe that I should not visit that country under any circumstances, others feel the cause we share would be best served by my going," he said. "However, a persuasive majority among the latter urge that my going should be contingent upon one major condition -that the government of South Africa open every performance to all races throughout the film's entire run withoutrequirement for any cinema to apply for a permit." -AP 
The Washington Post and The New York Times each took two awards in the 67th Pulitzer Prize competition, Colum­bia University announced yesterday. Thomas L. Friedman of The iimes and Loren_Jenkins ofthe Post shared the award in internation­al reporting for their coverage ofthe Israeli invasion ofLebanon and its aftermath. Loretta Tofani ofthePost won the special local report­ing award for her investigation of rape and sexual assault in the Prince Georges County, Md., detention center. Nan Robertson of The Times won the feature writing award for her account of her struggle with toxic shock syndrome. In the category ofdistinguished public service, the jackson (Miss.) Clarion-Ledger won for stories, illustrations and editorials in support ofa legislative battle to reform the state's public education system. The Boston Globe won the na­tional affairs award for a magazine supplement by staffwriters on the nuclear arms race. Alice Walker, the first black woman to win the Pulitzer Prize for fiction, received the award yeserday for her novel, 
The ColorPurple. -AP 
Searching for Indiana's Bigfoot That's how Harold Allison says he has spent 21 years looking in the nooks and crannies of Indiana searching. "I'm attuned to nature," said Allison, 
39. "I'm sort ofa wilderness detective. I think there's something out there. I don't know what it is. Scientifically, you can't really explain it. It is definitely something." Over the last three years, Allison claims to have interviewed 36 people who have seen the creature in Knox, Daviess and Martin counties. He has never seen it, but he thinks he came close. A few weeks ago, Allison and Greg Litherland, the 26­year-old editor of the Washington Times-Herald (of Indiana). newspaper, entered a cave near the Martin-Orange county line. Some time earlier, a hunter claims to have seen a creature of some sort enter the cave. "There was something walking ahead ofus in the cave," Allison recalled. "It sounded like a couple of people walking. It sounded like there were voices ahead. There was an undertone of voices blending with the water running in the creek. It was a sound I'd never heard before." According to reports received by Allison, the creature in question stands about '7-feet tall, weighs about 400 pounds with a muscular build, has coarse, matted hair from brownish-black to gray in color and a pair of glowing red eyes peering out from a human-type face with two fangs protruding from its mouth. -AP 
Partly cloudy and cool today with a 20 percent chance ofsnow flurries. Highs in the upper 30s and low 40s. Fair and cold tonight. Lows in the mid and upper 20s. Mostly sunny and cool tomorrow. Highs in the mid 40s to about 50. -AP 
Tuesday, April 19, 1983-page 2 

The next world war? 
How would the next world war begin? 
To even ask the question gives the horrifying implica­tion that some answer is not only possible but also realistic. If the question still makes sense today -if Bertrand Russell wouldn't call it linguistic gibberish ­then the fear ofa world at war is as real in 1983 as it was 
in 1943. 

A world where war is not a possibility does not ­cannot -ask the question. 
But such questions are the stuffpentagons are made of. United States defense experts recently attached their answer as an appendix to a 106-page document outlin­ing policy for directing military resources and forces between 1985 and 1989. Their conclusion: world war could easilty erupt if the Soviet Union invades Iran following the fall ofAyatollah Khomeini's rule. 
The scenario begins well before D-Day, the day ofthe full Soviet invasion. The Soviets and other Warsaw Pact countries begin selective mobilization of convential 
armies  at  least  45  days  
before  the  D-Day.  The  
United  States  responds by  

moving naval forces into key Middle Eastern positions. 
• D-Day minus 37: Soviets engage in large-scale ex­ercises in western Russia and reposition much oftheir navy. The United States dis­patches more aircraft and naval forces to Saudia Arabia and the Rapid Deployment 
Force goes on early alert. 

• 
D-Day minus 16: Soviets attempt to invoke the 1921 Treaty of Friendship with Iran. Poland, East Germany and Czechoslovakia begin major military exercises. NATO orders reinforce­ments to wartime levels. The United States declares in­tentions "to do whatever is necessary to protect U.S. vital interests." The President orders a yellow alert, re­quisitioning merchant marine ships, and moves the RDF to embarkation points. 

• 
D-Day minus 12: A Soviet invasion of Iran is im­minent, and the United States orders partial mobiliza­tion and dispatches a part of the RDF to those Mid Eastern countries that approve the move. The United States marines are deployed. 

• 
D-Day minus 6: Soviet forces move toward Iran, with advance elements already in Iran. Iran, without the Khomeini rule, seeks international help and United States forces move into Iran. 

• 
D-Day: Twenty-four Soviet divisions attack with several spearheads throughout Iran. Saudia Arabia ad­mits U.S. forces. A disorganized Iranian army fights So-.:_, ..oops directly. United States air forces attack the Soviets over Iran, and U.S: -Soviet naval forces engage 


e--The_Qhs_eryer_ 
Opening Tonight 

Design Editor....... .... Ken Cerabona Design AssisftlntMary l-lcaly,joe Zellner 
LavoutStaff... .. .....snowed out 1)1Jesetters........ .......................jim and Rah 
News Editor... . . .......... Kathleen Doyle Copl• Editor ...... Diane Oirkers Editorials Lavout ... ............... Tari Brown 


Eileen O'Meara 
.\jwrts CofJJ' Editor ....... ............jane Healy ND !Ja)' Editor......... retro,pectively Mike 
Royle, .Jane Pantll 

photographs ***************** 
.\~UC Ot~l' Editor... . . ............... Tari again T)'jJists.. .. .............. Mike O'Connor Ad Design.. .. .................Jeanie Euch Photographer................. .. Paul Ci!i~rclli 
G'uest Appearances Paper Jdland Dzave, Kathy Gancarz: assorted sordid 
romances. broken hearts and refused 
proposals 



Carl Seitzinger 
f.luch efficiency we'ue net,er seen before.' 
pottery ********************** 
The Observer I USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday through Fnday except dur1ng exam and vacat1on per~ods The Observer 1s publ1shed 
I s is GaIIery
by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $30 per year ($15 per semester) by wntrngTheOb­

3rd Floor West 
server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. In· d1ana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproductron 
Art Building--? pm
nghts are reserved 

Bob Vonderheide 
Ne Editor 

Inside Tuesd 
in the Indian Ocean. Cuba heightens readiness and the President declares full mobilization and reinstitutes the draft. 
• 
D-Day plus 4: As the fighting continues in Iran, War­saw Pact nations prepare invasion of Western Europe. West German and other NATO forces are quickly rein­forced. 

• 
D-Day plus 16: Nd'rth Korea invades South Korea; Warsaw Pact countries invade Europe with at least 90 divisions, also attacking U.S. and NATO naval forces. 

• 
D-Day plus 20: United States forces aid South Korea. French troops join the European front. 

• 
D-Day plus 40: American armies fight Soviet armies directly. World War III has begun. 




The actual Pentagon 
document  describes  the  
scenario  in  details  not  
reported  publically,  a  

forecast of an unthinkable disaster that Pentagon offi­cials are paid to consider. But what they didn't con­sider in this scenario is what to some is the most un­thinkable: nuclear war. This scenario involves only con­ventional warfare indicating 
that even today, defense experts still do not believe the next world war would necessarily be the last. 
It is a scary proposition, indeed, to think how long American and NATO forces could resist massive com­munist invasions in Western Europe, the Middle East and South Korea. It is even scarier to consider how long such a war could stay conventional. 
The ultimate question, then -the question to which unfolds the final answer -is and has to be: how would the next world war end? 
That question makes the first drown in insignificance. 
The Observeris always lookingfor new talent. If you are interested in newspaper writing or newspaper production, stop up at The Observer office on the ]rdfloor ofLaFortune. 


Tuesday, Aprill9, 1983-page 3 
The Observer 
Student Senate meeting 


Computer facilities to be discussed 
By TOM MOWLE 
Copy Editor 
The need for improved computer 
facilities will be one of the issues 
brought before the Board of Trus­
tees, Student Body President Brian 
Callaghan announced at yesterday's Student Senate meeting. 
Bob Riley, District 2 student senator, said "the situation is ridiculous" with the computer facilities presently at the university. Hall Presidents Council Chairman Mike Carlin described the terminal rooms as "crowded; you wait until midnight to get on (the machines)." 
"A little more cooperation be­tween teachers in the departments to stagger assignments," Riley said, "would ease the clogs in the com­puter rooms. He also noted, "There are a lot of terminals in professors' offices that are only in use for an hour a day, but that are always on line." 
Another problem that will be addressed at the meeting, Callaghan siad, will be the continuing lack of social space on campus. "LaFortune has possibilities," he said, "but for the size ofthe student body, it would be costly to make it attractive." 
Callaghan said he welcomed the tentative plans for improvements to be made on the building this sum­mer. To bring more people to LaFortune, he suggested moving some of the businesses now located under Badin Hall there. Class of 1986 President Lee Broussard cited a need for a branch ofthe Credit Uni­on on campus to cash personal checks, which could be located in LaFortune or at the bookstore. 
Related to this issue, "the pos­sibility of a co-ed dormitory, as well as the strained relationships which exist between men and women here" will be discussed, as well the use of senior bar as an under­graduate club on some nights. 
Other ideas that will be brought to the committee include increasing financial aid, moving the Placement Bureau, correcting curriculum deficiencies, alleviating the alcohol 
problem  on  campus,  and  the  
Senate's  comments on  the PACE  
Reprot.  

Callaghan, Student Body Vice President Peggy Prevoznik, Carlin, Student Vnion commissioner Dave Drouillard, and a girls' hall president will present these issues to the Com­mittee. 
The Senate expressed thanks to Sue Fleck, Lil Sib's Weekend chair­person, for her work on the event, which Callaghan said "went over really well." Class of 1985 President Vince Hockett noted that the weekend's activities "were not rep­resentative ofcollege activities," but Drouillard said he and his brother "did stuffwe normally would do and had a blast." 
Unanimous approval was given to the new Judicial and Student Government Cabinets. Kathy Kemp will be the assistant judicial coor­dinator; other members of the Cabinet are Piper Griffin, Jeanine Gozdecki, Steve McCarty. Chuck O'Malley, and Lawrence Tvidt. 
The executive coordinators of student government for next year are John Gallagher, Teresa Ross, and Jim Slattery. Each is in charge of several other members of the Cabinet. 
Each student senator described what he has done and plans to do over the remaining weeks of the semester: 
• District 1 Senator Rob Bertino's top priority will be the paving ofthe D-6 parking lot. He has talked to the presidents of Lyons and Holy Cross Halls and Carlin, ex-president ofCar­roll, and has found "no need for more playing fields." In addition to paving it, he suggests enlarging and draining it. He will talk to Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs Father John Van Wolvlear about the lot in the upcoming weeks. 
• 
Riley is working on making teac­her evaluation forms available to the students. As the faculty would need to approve this, he would "like to see who would be willing to have them open." If they cannot be opened, he suggests that the stu­dents conduct surveys oftheir own. 

• 
Dave McAvoy, District 3 senator, will meet with Van Wolvlear and Administrative Assis­tant to the Executive Vice President Father E. William Beauchamp. He also will try to get the seats in the Engineering Auditorium layered and the Knights of Columbus building re-opened to students. 

• 
District 4 Senator Mike Quinn is working on getting laundry machines on the North Quad, pos­sibly in the basement of the North Dining Hall. He will meet with Director of Food Services William Hickey to discuss this. 

• 
Rich Spolzino, District 5 senator, will be meeting with Stu­dent Government Security Commis­sioner Kevin Howard about placing lights along Ivy Road. He also wants to make a study to locate off-campus areas which are not served by TRANSPO and consider providing university transportation to stu­dents living in these areas. This would encourage more students to move off-campus, he said. 



Ends power struggle 
Salvadoran army minister resigns 
(AP)-Gen. Jose Guillemmo Garcia resigned Monday as defense minis­ter, ending a bitter power struggle with some commanders who accused him of bungling the war against left-wing guerrillas. 
Garcia, 49, summoned reporters as rumors circulated that he would step down and told them: "i always thought that one day I would hold a news conference for you with only one question asked and one answer given. This question has an answer: yes. I believe you understand what I'm referring to." 
In the latest armed forces feud, the air torce commander, Col. Juan Rafael Bustillo, threatened last week to refuse Defense Ministry orders unless Garcia resigned. 
Last January, Col. Sigifredo Ochoa Perez, considered one of the army's best combat leaders, staged a six-day mutiny with his 1,200 soldiers in northern Cabanas province. The rebellion ended when Ochoa agreed to go to the Salvadoran Embassy in Washington as military attache. Military sources said at the time that, as part of the compromise settle­ment, Garcia had pledged to resign in three months. 
President Alvaro Magana ac­cepted Garcia's resigntion and named Gen. Carlos Eugenio Vides Casanova, commander ofthe nation­al guard, to head the Defense Minis­try, a presidential aide said. 
The aide, Francisco Jose Guerrero, said the Constituent As­sembly still had to ratify the presi­dent's choice. Military sources said the 4--i-year-old Vides Casanova has a reputation as a tough administrator. 
Garcia told the news conference he had tendered his resignation to Magana on March 18, but the presi­dent did not act on it until Monday. 
"I hope the president continues with a team that supports the democratic process, which is the country's salvation," Garcia said. "What worries me is that the people might be defrauded, because the people deserve more than has been given them." 
He called for armed forces unitv and expressed hope that the interi~ government would follow through with its pledge to hold elections this December. 

The Ohscrver/Paul Citarelli 

A February chill in April, which caused record low temperatures yesterday, forces Leigh Ritchie and Marty Pallante to seek cover beneath blankets. The 2 5 degrees reading-at 6 a.m. yesterday broke the previous record set in 1953. 

Management Club Hight --at Senior Bar 
Q 0-t ~t 

Tonight from 9:30--1 :30 ~ All Management Majors Welcome 

Apple User's Meeting (The Byteing Irish) 
7:30PM Wednesday, April20 Room 120, Hayes-Healy 
Presentation by Jim Johnson 

"Hi-Res Chemistry" 
••• FREE SOFTWARE ••• 
Economic bonanza 





Indiana strike aids Arkansas town 
FORT SMITH, Ark. (AP) -this western Arkansas city, which has a higher unemployment rate than the state average, is benefiting from a labor strike at a Whirlpool Corp. plant in Indiana. 
Since mid-February, when Whirlpool workers in Evansville went on strike, the company's Arkansas plant has had more to do than its work force of 2,080 can handle. 
On :\1arch j, the Fort Smith plant 
recalled 300 employees who were 
laid off because of the recession, 
plant spokesman :\fare Crumpton 
said. Another 80 were recalled 1 I 
days later, and by March 28, "105 laid-off worker~ were picking up paychecks again. 
Crumpton said that, at the same time, Whirlpool hired about 780 new employees and added a second shift. An additional 220 workers from the Fort Smith area were to go on Whirlpool's payroll Monday. 
"What we're going through is not just an increase for us," Crumpton said. "There are many companies in Fort Smith that are primary suppliers for us. When we do something like this, the domino theory becomes pretty significant." 
After the strike began Feb. I-c, Whirlpool moved some of the com­pany's production lines to Fort Smith. "The plan," Crumpton said, "brought forth about a S25 million investment in Fort Smith over a 
'three-to four-year period." 

Crumpton said employees shouldn't fear a loss of their jobs if the strike ends. "It's been discussed and decided on the: corporate level that when they settle their strike, it's not going to haYe an effect on our product lines here," he said. 
Whirlpool may, in tact, hire more. 
"Right now, we're in the planning stage tor a possible increase about mid-May," Crumpton said. "Ifwe do, it probably will mean jOO more people will be hired." They would work on a full-time but temporary basis until August, when the peak season ends. 
Betore the employment increases. Crumpton said, about 80 percent of the Fort Smith workers belonged to the Allied Industrial Workers Union Local j'O. He said the Fort Smith plant, which opened in 1966, has never had a strike. 
A union spokesman says most of the "1,200 hourly workers at the !Evansville plant are members of Lo­cal808 of the International Union of IEiectrical Workers. The workers 1:urned down a proposed three-year contract. 

-----------·----­
The Observer Tuesday, April19, 1983-page 4 


Political environment sways MX placement 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Members and Nevada to escape detection. The of a presidential commission that plan was approved by Congress but recommended placing the homeless was scuttled by the Reagan ad­MX missile in existing underground ministration. silos acknowledged yesterday that Brown said it was necessary to go political and strategic pressures ahead with deployment of the MX, motivated their decision. with plans for a small, mobile missile 
"Given the history and political later, to present a credible deterrent realities," the best that the panel to Soviet aggression. could devise was the proposal to Members of the Armed Services deploy I00 :\1X missiles and embark Committee initially gave a mixed on a I0-year project to develop an reaction to the commission's report. arsenal of smaller missiles linked to which was presented to President arms control, commission chairman Reagan on April II. Reagan will an­Brent Scowcroft told the Senate nounce his decision -expected to Armed Services Committee. be an endorsement of the commis­
Harold Brown. defense' secretary sion's report-on Tuesday. in the Carter administration, agreed. The Armed Services chairman, "I recognize that more politically Sen. John Tower, R-Texas, said the astute decisions in the past, not only commission "has, in the midst of by the current administration butby
Vincent Persichetti highlighted the fifth annual tuoso pianist and organist as well as a composer greatcnfusion and political turmoil, 
in almost every musical medium. past ones, might have been able to undertaken to provide a clear and
festival ofNew Music at Saint Mary's. He is a vir· 
produce a better solution," h said. compehensive vision of America's "There may, looking back in his­deterrent and arms control policies
Possible change at Fed tory, have been better ways to do and the strategic forces required to this. However, I think we are now implement such policies." facing a situation where we have to Two MX foes, Sens.). James Exon,Reagan ponders V olcker's future 
proceed from where we are now," D-Neb., and Carl Levin, D-Mich., Brown added. recalled that Brown, Tower andWASHINGTON (AP)-President country for the job." terest rates high, causing the severe Scowcroft, a retired Air Force other prominent national securityReagan is leaning against naming The list of possible successors in­recession of 1981-82 and driving up lieutenant general who was White figures had opposed a Reagan ad­Paul A. Volcker to a second term as cludes: unemployment. They argue that if House national security chief in the ministration plan in October 1981chairman of the Federal Reserve Preston Martin, 59, a longtime Reagan retains Volcker, he president Ford administration, as well as to place 40 MX missiles inBoard but has not made a final deci­Reagan political associate from would tacitly be accepting respon­Brown said that if they could begin Minuteman silos temporarily while asion on either Volcker's future or on California who was named by the sibility for those events and making 
the MX program from scratch, they permanent basing system was
choosing a successor for the power­president last year to be vice chair­Republicans vulnerable in the 1984 would put the missiles in multiple developed.
ful post, administration sources said man of the Fed, the No. 2 post; elections. 
protective shelters. Opponents of that plan hadyesterday. economist Milton Friedman, 70, the But, Scowcroft said, "this was argued that the silos were vul­One source, speaking only on Nobel Prize winner whose theories Other observers, however, have precluded by the environment in nerable to destruction by a Sovietcondition that his name not be used, about monetary policy have had speculated that Reagan would keep which this recommendation had to first strike, Exon and Levin noted.
said White House officials are great impact on both the administra­Vokker because of the strong sup­be made."
considering five or six candidates to tion and the Fed; Beryl W. Sprinkel, port the Fed chairman enjoys within Multiple protective shelters is the Brown said that while the land­succeed Volcker, whose four-year 59, undersecretary for the Treasury the financial community -and formal name for the Carter ad­based silos might be considered vul­term as head of the nation's central in charge of monetary policy; Wil­among some key Republicans in ministration's "shell game" deploy­nerable, the deterrent to Sovietbank expires in August. liam E. Simon, 55, a financial consult­Congress -for the job he has done ment plan, under which 200 MX attack is maintained because theVolcker, 55, appointed by former ant who was treasury secretary in lowering inflation, bringing down missiles would have been shuttled Soviets still are incapable ofdestroy­President Carter, is one of the most under former President Ford, and interest rates and helping engineer a among 4,600 steel and concrete ing the silos and the U.S. strategicinfluential figures on the economic Alan Greenspan, 57, chairman of the recovery in 1983. 
shelters in the desert valleys of Utah bomber force at the same time. 
scene because of the tremendous Council of Economic Advisers un­
impact the Federal Reserve exerts der Ford. on inflation, interest rates and Sources said Treasury Secretary 
Factory use increase
economic growth through its con­Donald T. Regan also .could be trol of the nation's supply of money tapped for the job, which requires and credit. Senate confirmation. 

Economy giving optimistic signals 
The administration source, Speculation about Volcker's emphasizing that Reagan has not future has been rampant in recent WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. fac­ders. In contrast, starts for all of last from 59. I percent in Februarymade up his mind firmly, said weeks. Some observers have tory use rose for a fourth straight year totaled just 1.06 million, the "but remained well above itsVolcker still has an outside chance at assumed that Reagan, a Republican, a second term, ifhe wants it, but that is sure to name his own candidate to month in March, hitting the highest least since 1946. depressed fourth-quarter level." 
level since last summer, the govern­the probability of that happening "is so crucial a post rather· than stay ment reported yesterday.
diminishing every day." with a man picked by a Democratic "Volcker's support in this ad­president. They note that Carter 
The report led one government ministration has neverbeen strong," replaced the highly regarded Arthur 
economist to say manufacturers' gains are "effectively burying" thesaid the source. "The overwhelming Burns in 1978 with G. William Mil­
l 
long recession.
' view is that the president has a right ler. Volcker got the job when Miller A separate report showed hometo name his own guy. Carter did. became treasury secretary. 
construction declining, but the March figures remained far above 
That's tile way it works. There are Numerous Republican politicians 
lots of qualified people in the have blamed Volcker for keeping in-
ATTENTION ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN WORKING ON THE 1984 DOME 
ASPHOTOGRAPHERORSTAFFMEMBER MEETING IN DOME OFFICE 3RDFLOORLAFORTUNE APRIL 1 AT7PM 

the level ofone year earlier. 
Details of the two reports: 

The Federal Reserve Board said 
factory use rose 0. 7 percentage 
point to 69.4 percent of capacity, a 
gain that was expected in light oflast 
week's report that the nation's in­
dustrial production had risen a 
strong 1.1 percent in March. 

The Commerce Department 
reported that housing starts 
declined to 1.61 million units in 
March, still 75.1 percent above the 
level of March 1982. 

Housing starts had risen nearly 39 
percent from December to 
February, and builders were far from 
discouraged by the relatively small 
decline last month. 

"On the contrary, I think the cur­rent level is great," said Michael Sumichrast, chief economist for the National Association of Home Buil-

Robert Ortner, the Commerce Department's chief economist, said that "the gains in production and capacity utilization are effectively burying the 'H 1-'H2 recession." He said that with production lines reopening, the employment picture should continue to brighten. 
The new Federal Reserve Board report said the factory use rate for the auto industry slipped a bit in March -to 58.8 percent ofcapacity 
The small decline for cars was more than outweighed by 
"widespread  increases  in  activity  
among  manufacturing  industries,"  
the report said.  

Improvement in the nation's un­employment rate normally lags be­hind the beginning of recovery from a recession, with company officials hesitant to rush back into full production before they are sure the economy is really reviving. 


Observer promotions 
The Observer News Department is proud to announce the follow­ing promotions within the department: 
Diane Dickers, a junior from St. Louis, has been promoted to Assis­
tant News Editor. Dirkers has worked both as a Senior Staff Reporter 
and a Copy Editor. 

JeffChoppin, a junior from Washington, D.C., has also been named 
as an Assistant News Editor. Choppin was in the Angers program last 
year and is a Senior Staff Reporter. 
Tom Mowle, a freshman from West Lafavette, Ind., has been 
selected as a Copy Editor. Mowle, a Staff Rep~rter, has written ex­
tensively for The Observer, focusing on coverage of the Student 
Senate and the recent campus elections. 
Promotions tQ Senior Staff Reporter include the following: Cathy 
Pax, a freshman from Coldwater, Ohio; Dan McCullough, a freshman 
from Oak Lawn, Ill.; Pat Sain, a freshman from South Bend; Scott 
Hardek, a freshman from Ridgewood, N.j.; Cecilia Lucero, a junior 
from Sewickley, Pa.; and Tom Mowle. 
The following reporters have been promoted to Staff Reporter: 
Amy Stephan, a freshman from Piqua, Ohio; Mike Krisko, afreshman 
from Manteno, Ill.; Beth Walsh, from Elk Grove, Ill.; Liz Miller, a fresh­
man from Lake Geneva, Wis.; Cindy Boyle, from Mendham, N.J.; Tom 
Pace, a sophomore from Summit, N.J.; Helen Lucaitis, from Val­
paraiso, Ind.; Kevin Binger, a junior from Minneapolis, Minn.; Pollv 
Hudak, a senior from Pittsburgh, Penn.; Gretchen Pichler, a freshma~ 
from Hutchinson, Kan.; Theresa Guarino, from Oak Park, Ill.; and 
Theresa Hardy, trom Santa Barbara, Calit: 
:1:1 r· '. ·~ t.~ ;J!!I N ·)1: .L;J;,.. ··q~ ... ·u~ 11 ;::~. 
The Observer Tuesday, Aprill9, 1983-page 5 
McHenry speaks-on 

U.S. foreign policy 
By TIM BUCKLEY 
News Staff 
The United States is a nation in search" ofa foreign policy, according to Donald McHenry, former U.S. am­bassador to the United Nations. 
McHenry, who addressed Saint Mary's Business Associates last weekend, also questioned the ex­tent to which the machinery of the government is appropriate for sol­ving the foreign policy problems of the '80s. 
"Theoretically, the State Depart­ment is the chief administrator of foreign policy," McHenry said. "However, ifyou walked into an em­bassy, you would find that most of the employees work for agencies other than the State Department." 
"We live in a time where foreign policy development is extraor­dinarily complex and requires numerous agencies ...This comes at the same time as a breakdown in institutions involved in the making offoreign policy. You are led to con­clude that part of our present dif­ficulty is due to the tinkering we have done ...with those institu­tions." 
McHenry's concern lies with the tremendous turn-over in public office and restrictions on elected of­ficials. He stressed weaknesses in the 
presidency and Congress, both in 
the election process and in their 
dealings with each other. 
Concerning the presidency he stated, "We are now in a situation where the election is almost four years long, while the president is increasingly elected for one year or less." He supports his statement with a synopsis of the four-year presidential term: "The president 
spends the first year finding where the john is and the last two running for re-election or bluffing to retain credibility and support. When you deduct these, we are able to look at foreign policy one out of four years. The other three are spent in limbo. 
"We have gone a long way in rob­bing Congress of power and ex­pertise necessary to develop foreign policy. FOR, Truman, or Eisenhower could make a policy decision and count on the support ofCongress af­ter consulting with congressional leaders and committee chairmen. These positions are now a sorry shadow of their former selves," said McHenry. 
"We've tinkered with seniority and committee chairmanship to get rid of the too powerful senators. Now the president must consult with all 535 congressmen" before being able to determine his support. 
McHenry cited the tremendous amount of turn-over in elections as problematic. "One finds congres­sional staffers to be more informed than the boss. In our effort to reform congressional and presidential elec­tions, we have destroyed an impor­tant bridge between the two branches." 
McHenry said that the creation of the Office of Assistant Secretary for National Security Affairs is a mere complication to the problem of foreign policy development. "We have in addition to 535 congress­men, another would-be Secretary of State in the White House. I would change that position rather drasti­cally to Assistant to the President for Paper Shuffling." 
The president, by following the letter and not the spirit of U.S. foreign policy in areas such as Central America, leads Congress to 
"restrict  the  action  of  the  
Presidency,  which  ties  all  our  
hands," he said.  

Other policy restrictions McHenry discussed included the trend towards partisan solutions to international problems. 
"From World War II to 1981, the United States followed a bipartisan foreign policy ...and for the most part, there was relative agreement between Democrats and Republicans about what was good for the country." 
However, concerning the current situation in U.S. foreign policy he stated, "We have gotten away from that (relative agreement)." 
McHenry said that U.S. foreign policy has placed both our allies and adversaries "in a position of uncer­tainty". 

Opens settlement 

Israel celebrates anniversary 
and Classical Languages and Subhash Basu, as­sociate professor of Chemistry listen us the Facul~y Senate discusses recommendations to the 
HAR BRACHA, Occupied West Bank (AP) -Israel authorities ded­icated a newJewish settlement here yesterday to highlight their 35th In­dependence Day festivities. But foul weather and thousands ofprotesters squelched what was to have been an elaborate outdoor ceremonv. 
The state of Israel was created on May 14, 1948, but Israelis com­memorate the day according to the Hebrew lunar calendar. 
Har Bracha, or Mount of Blessing, sits on Mount Gerizim, a 2,890-foot­high peak overlooking Nablus, the largest Palestinian city on the oc­cupied West Bank. It was to have 
Second time in 6 days 



Walesa detained b}' authorities 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Police 
detained and interrogated Lech 
Walesa, his family priest and two 
other companions for hours yester­
day after stopping their car on the 
road to Warsaw, Walesa's wife and 
the clergyman reported. 
Danuta Walesa told The As­
sociated Press in a telephone inter­
view from Gdansk that her husband 
was brought home at about 8 p.m. ( 1 
p.m. EST). Police detained the party at about I 1 a.m., according to the Rev. Henrykjankowski, Walesa's ad­viser and confessor. 
It was the second time Walesa was 
held by authorities and questioned 
in the six days since he announced 
he was meeting with underground 
Solidarity leaders to coordinate 
policies. 
Walesa stopped short of publicly 
endorsing the underground's call for 
protests, which sparked the arrest of 
at least 26 Solidarity activists on 
Saturday. 
Walesa had said he was ques­tioned last week about his meetings with the underground, but Mrs. Walesa declined to discuss yester­day's interrogation. She said her hus­band was "too tired and too hungry" to come to the phone, adding that he was ordered to appear at Gdansk police headquarters at 11 a.m. today. 
The Interior Ministry, which runs the security police, refused to com­ment on Walesa's reported deten­tion. The duty officer at Olsztyn police headquarters, contacted by telephone from Warsaw said: "Ht> has not been detained. He has not been arrested either." 
Jankowski said he was traveling to Warsaw with Waiesa from the Baltic port ofGdansk when police stopped their car near the city ofOisztyn, 66 miles from Gdansk. 
The Roman Catholic priest, who celebrated Mass inside the Gdansk shipyards during the August 1980 strikes that gave birth to Solidarity, told Western reporters that he and Walesa were questioned separately by police in Olsztyn. 
Jankowski said he was released af­ter about five hours, along with his driver and well-known actor Woj­ciech Duryasz, also in the car. 
"I was questioned about every­thing and nothing," Jankowski said. 
Walesa, his wife and driver were questioned by police last Wednes­day about the labor leader's clan­destine April 9-11 meetings with the five members ofSolidarity's fugitive, five-man "Temporary Coordinating Commission," known by its Polish initials TKK. 
The underground issued a com­. munique after the parley calling for nationwide demonstrations on the May I socialist workers' day. Walesa, who declared that he would meet again with the underground, said he 
was  in  rough  .accord  with  its  
policies.  
Spokesmen  at  the  Walesa  

household in Gdansk did not say why the four men were driving to Warsaw, but Walesa said earlier that he wanted to lay a wreath this week at a monument to the 1943 Warsaw ghetto uprising against Nazi occupa­tion forces. 
Solidarity supporters have stayed away from the elaborate, oflkially sanctioned -lOth anniversary com­memorations of the uprising, and police dispersed a gathering Sunday of union supporters at the Warsaw monument to the Jewish ghetto fighters. 
• • . Embassy 

conlinuedjrom page 1 
"constructing sale havens in our em­bassies and consulates, improving buildings access control, installing non-lethal denial systems (against entry by terrorists), and concentrat­ing on other life-saving measures." 
He said the department had also developed a system of contingency planning to insure that it was "not caught unaware and unprepared in a future terrorist attack." 
Kennedy said all personnel as­signed overseas were given a two­day course on coping with violence, including segments on hostage sur­vival, bomb recogmuon and residential security. 
Hays said the government needs 1t0 constantly upgrade its security measures, but without isolating diplomatic posts and personnel. 
ness of the Academic Council and Senate. The meeting took place last night at the Center for Continuing Education. (See related News Brief). 
been dedicated in a gala ceremony to underscore the settlement polices of Prime Minister Menac­hem Begin's government. 
So far, Har Bracha -Israel's 93rd Jewish settlement on the West Bank and Gaza Strip -is only 1 5 tiny prefabricated homes. But Israel plans a town of 800 families on the mountain. 
The settlements issue has sharply divided Israelis. Israel radio es­timated that 10,000 Israelis jour­neyed to Har Bracha, some to protest the settlement and Begin's policies and some to demonstrate support for the government. 
But heavy rain started and Deputy Prime Minister David Levy ordered 
the ceremonies moved from a 
public stage into a hut, where they 
were held out ofsight of the crowd. 
Outside, opponents of Begin's 
policy ofsettling the West Bank with 
the eventual aim ofannexing the ter­
ritory outnumbered Begin suppor­
ters by about two-to-one. 
They also drowned out the 
pro-settlement crowd, shouting: 
"peace yes, annexation no." 
The quid in the center of Pales­tinian nationalism contrasted sharp­ly with the protest marches that drew tho.usands of Arabs in 1979 when Israel built a settlement east of the city. Since then, Mayor Bassam Shakaa's leg were blown off in an as­sassination attempt and he was dis­missed from office during an Israeli campaign against nationalist leaders. 

lmpott Night 
JJ.OO 

CANCER. 
NOT KNOWING 
THE 
RISKS IS YOUR 


GREATEST RISK. 
A lot of people think cancer is unbeatable. 
That simply isn't true. In fact, over two million people have had cancer and survived to lead happy, normal lives. 
And not only can cancer be beaten, it can also be prevented. 
There are definite precautions that have been proven to decrease your risk of getting certain cancers. 
Ask your local American Cancer Society to send you a free booklet about cancer risks. 
Learn the facts about cancer. And make not know­ing the risks, one less risk. 
+=­
liow you live may saYe your tire. 



-------------·----­
The Observer Tuesday, April19, 1983-page 6 
Ready for 1983-84 



Senate announces new cabinet 
·.{ 
'"' 
·t 
·~
.•. 
I
..•I 
.'. -..~ 
..,' 
.."~ 
.. 
:• 
The

Teresa Ross, one ofthe three executive coordinators assiPr.!ed Student Government nextyear, andMike Carlin, new chairman of the Hall Presidents Council, discuss Senate prioritiesfor the 1983­


• • • Degrees 
nuclear conflict since 1971 when
continuedfrom page 1 

she was instrumental in an Philip Johnson, and the two Austrailian movement which halted designed such innovative buildings · French atomic atmospheric tests in 
as the AT&T building in midtown the Pacific Ocean. She now spends Manhatten and the award-winning all of her time educating the public Pennzoil Place in downtown Hous­on the dangers of nuclear weapons. ton. Bergee now has his own firm, • Archibald Cox, the first John Burgee Associates, in New Watergate Special Prosecutor, is a York City. professor at the Harvard Law School. 
• Dr. Helen Caldicott is an In 1973, he was dismissed by Presi­Australian pediatrician who is na­dent Nixon when he refused to tional president of Physicians for So­forego resort to the courts in the in­cial Responsibility in Cambridge, vestigation of criminal misconduct Mass., and founder of Women's Ac­in the Executive Branch. A leading tion for Nuclear Disarmament. Dr. a uthority on constitutional and Caldicott has been concerned about labor law, Cox joined the Harvard the medica] impl~_ations of the faculty in 1945. Currently, he is the 
• • . Beirut 
Theology Announces 
1. A theology course in French. Theo 329 Teilhard de Chardin 10:10·11:00MWF This course fulfills the second requirement in Theology.lt gives French language majors 
or students returning from Angers program opportunity to practice their French . 
2. Reminder: The University Theology requirement is fulfilled as follows: 3 credits: Introduction to Theology 
THEO 100 (Freshman Year) or THEO 200 3 credits: a course numbered 201 · 299 
400-level courses are open to qualified upper level students as long as there is space. 
We are glad to advise any student on choice of Theol«;>gy course. Theology Dept. 327 O'Shaughnessy 
Charles I. Thompson Professor Of Law at the University ofColorado. 
• 
Dr. Pieter De Somer, a physician and microbioligist, is rector of the Katholeike Universiteit of Leuven, Belgium. After a decade of research, he was appointed lecturer at Leuven in 1952. In 1971, De Somer was elected rector of the university. He is director of the Rega-Institute for Medical Reasearch at Leuven. 

• 
James Frick, vice president for public relations at Notre Dame, is stepping down in September after 32 years in the University's develop­mental area. A leader in the field of educational philanthropy, Frick has raised more than S300 million in support from alumni, parents, friends, corporations and founda­tions, ranking Notre Dame among the top 25 universities in fund­raising success. 

• 
F. James McDonald is the presi­dent and chief operation officer of General Motors since 1981. A graduate of the General Motors In­stitute in 1944, he rose to head the Chevrolet Motor Division in 1972. As the No. 2 map in the GM hierarchy, McDonald is the manufacturing expert overseeing the revolution in automobile build­ing techniques in modernized GM plants across the globe. 

• 
Jerome Van Gorkom, a Notre Dame trustee, serves as under­secretary of state for management. h·io~ to his Department of State ap­pointment in December 1982, he was the chiefexecutive ofTrans Uni­on Corporation in Chicago for 18 years. A civic activist, Van Gorkum 


has served on numerous civic boards, as well as on national groups studying social security and regional economic development. 
• Dr. John Willke is a founding board member and president of the National Right to Life Committee. A practicing physician in Cincinnati, Ohio, for 30 years, Willke is a diplomat and fellow ofthe American Board of Family Practice. He is cur­rently on full sabbatical from his practice, and he and his wife are coauthors of several books on abor­tion and sex education. 
• • • Reston 
continuedfrom page 1 

The lecture is made possible by a gift from Coca-Cola USA, and the series is being administered by the Department of American Studies. Father Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity president, will deliver opening remarks, and Terrence Smith, a Washington correspondent for the New York Times and Red Smith's son, will introduce Reston . 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Supreme Court said yesterday it will 
decide  whether  communities  are  
trampling  religious  freedoms  by  
including  nativity  scenes  in  

municipal Christmas holiday decorations. 
The court will use a Pawtucket, R.I., dispute to decide whether government sponsorship of nativity scenes violates the constitutionally required separation of church and state. 
Controversy over nativity scenes, sometimes called creches, has become something of a Christmas tradition itself in recent years. 
In addition to Pawtucket, recent court battles over municipally sponsored scenes · depicting the birth of Jesus have been fought in Denver, Houston, Providence, R.I., West Miami, Fla., and Pierre, S.D. 
The justices are expected to decide the Pawtucket case sometime next year. 
Also yesterday, the high court: 
Agreed to study a key question in a S20 million libel suit filed over a National Enquirer story about actress Shirley Jones and her hus· band, in a move that might lead to a significant ruling on press freedom. 
At issue is whether individual editors and reporters can be named as defendants in libel lawsuits filed in states far from where they work. 
Let stand a ruling that a commonly used four-letter vulgarism for sexual 
intercourse  is  neither  legally  
obscene nor profane.  
In  an  order that set  no  binding  
guideline  for  courts  outside  

Maryland, the justices refused to reinstate a Hancock, Md., man's con­viction for allegedly shouting the word to the town's police chief. 
Maryland's highest court found that the shouted word had not djs­turbed the peace, was not "profane" because it did not reflect ir­reverence to God or some holy thing, and was not obscene because it was not erotic. 
Turned down an appeal by actor Mickey Rooney, who was trying to force the motion picture industry to share some of the profits from the movies he made between 1932 and 1960. 
Said it will decide whether a uni­on may spend compulsory dues on matters not related to collective bargaining, such as political or ideological campaigns, so long as the union later rebates money to workers who object to the ex­penditures. 
Heard arguments in a Boston case over whether employers can preserve jobs for minority workers during hard economic times by laying off white employees with more seniority. 
In the nativity scene case, two lower courts have ruled that Paw­tucket cannot sponsor the annual display, a 40-year-tradition in that city before it was challenged in a 1980 taxpayer suit. 
continuedfrom page 1 

President Reagan praised Dillon's courage and told reporters in Wash­ington that "this criminal attack on a diplomatic establishment will not deter from our goals of peace in the region." 
Ambulances and fire engines raced through Beirut streets with wailing sirens after the attack, rus­hing casualties from the scene and putting out fires in the building and several cars parked around it. 
The blast blew off the front wall of the center section of the embassv from the ground to the roof and devastated the ground lloor visa sec­tion in the northern wing. 
U.S. Marines and French peacekeeping troops searched the rubble along with Lebanese troops and policemen. At nightfall, tlood­lights were set up to enable rescuers to continue the search for more vic­tims under the, smoldering debris. 
The U.S. 6th Fleet helicopter car­rier Guadalcanal cruised to a position facing the stricken embassy as U.S. Marines and French and Lebanese troops sealed off the area. 
A man representing Moslem Holy War told the newspaperAI Liwa the bombing was "part of the Iranian revolution's campaign against im­perialist targets throughout the world. We shall keep striking at any imperialist presence in Lebanon, including the multinational force." 
The group, which police believe 
is made up offanatic Lebanese Shiite 
Moslems loyal to Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, had claimed responsibility for a spate of grenade and machine-gun attacks on the mul­tinational force since January. 
One Italian soldier was killed and eight Italians, five American Marines and three Frenchmen were wounded in those attacks on the 5,400-man peace force that has been stationed in Beirut since last sum­mer, shortly after the Israelis invaded to smash the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
..---------------------~-~--~----------------------------------~~----~------·--_.-.~.. ....--~--~~................~..............~~..~--..~ 





Editorials 
Tuesday, Aprill9, 1983-page 7 

Bernardin: Medieval man in a modern age 
With confirmation of The Observer's exclusive 

report that Joseph L. Cardinal Bernardin, archbishop 
of Chicago, is to deliver the commencement address, 
the University enters a new philosophy of learning. 
That philosophy, free of the bureaucracy of Washing­
ton, D.C., presents a new look at the interplay of 
religion and politics. Bernardin, the first priest to 
address a senior class here since 1900, reverses a 
modern tradition of selecting professional politicians 
to speak, including every president since Eisenhower, 
and most recently Canada's Prime Minister Pierre El­
liott Trudeau. 
Bernardin is not a Latin-reciting prelate, but a truly modern Christian humanist. Bernardin's personality combines the political tenacity of a Daniel Webster with the the moral courage ofa Thomas More. He is a brilliant theologian, adept not only at the specifics of religious learning, but also skilled in the practical relationship ofthat knowledge to world events. 
In Bernardin there lies that medieval spark of religio-political synthesis: men of mud, inspired by their faith in God and in each other seek to perfect this imperfect planet. 
An outspoken critic of the nuclear arms race, Ber­nardin has given a much needed thrust to the American peace movement which only until recently was labelled communist. Bernardin has almost single­handedly affirmed the American Catholic commit­ment to non-violence. 
As h(~ad of the drafting committee of the National Council of Catholic Bishops' Pastoral on Peace and War, Bernardin has earned the admiration and respect of his fdlow Christian citizens for his unyielding con­cern for all humanity and for catholic ideas of real freedom. 
The third draft ofthe pastoral has been criticized by many liberal Catholics who feel that the document has lost its original bite against the current defense policies of the Reagan administration. But Bernardin, as pastor to both conservatives and liberals alike, realizes that the non-violent movement must shun quick strides which might only serve to enflame the rhetoric ofAmerican militarists. 
A man ofshrewd insight, Bernardin realizes that any step against the nuclear arms race is irretraceable. Each side must free itself of the senseless emotion which has gripped the United States and the Soviet Union for over 35 years. If rumors prove correct, his May 15 speech should highlight the scope and im­plications of thePastoral on Peace and War, the con­tents of which are to be voted upon May 2 and 3 in Chicago. 
It is with a true sense ofappreciation that the senior class should recognize the honor of Bernardin's engagement and the impact ofhis work upon not only the nation, but upon the world as well. 
Where is the 24-hour banking card? 
Whatever happened to The Exchange? As you may recall, there has been a clamor months before that. But that date came and at a "convenient location." It is convenient You know, that nice system which we were for several years to make~ the Credit t:nion went, and no cards to the depositors. only if you have a car, because you can hop supposed to have as oflastjan. 1 which would more accessible to its major clientele -Once or twice, in the monthly newsletters over to D-1, D-6, or wherever and drive up to a enable those of us who have accounts at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For which the Credit Union mails out with the drive-in window -a feature which the old Notre Dame Credit Union to have 24-hour some time the Credit Union has had a branch monthly statements, there have been little Credit Union was sadly lacking. But if you are banking at the bus shelter. in the basement of LeMans at Saint Mary's, "teasers," one a brochure about the 24-hour like the majority of Notre Dame students and making life easier for those students. With a banking system, the other a little note describ­don't have a car, it is about as convenient as big promotional campaign, the Credit Union ing who would get the service free and who going to Burger Chef to buy Chicken McNug­
Tim Neely 
-not long after moving into its larger, more would have to pay a S I monthly service gets. In other words, it isn't. The only dorms "convenient" building -announced the ad­charge to use it. Neither of these, interesting­closer to the Credit Union than to the Main
My Turn 

vent of The Exchange, which would make it ly, mentioned a date when this was to com­Circle are Flanner, Grace, and Pasquerilla East possible to make transactions 24 hours a day, mence. and West, and those not by much. Well, here it is, April 19, and it still hasn't seven days a week at several different loca­Well, I'm tired ofwaiting. That's why The Exchange should be operat­happened. tions. One of these, to the delight of all Notre Especially on .Friday afternoons or ing -now. If the Credit Union were real~}' in 
Sure, the little machine which makes all this Dame students, is the centrally-located Lewis afternoons shortly before breaks, where service to its members, it would end the possible sits in the bus stop, ready to be used. Bus Shelter. hordes of people make the long trek only to suspense and begin sending out those cards However, no one can use it. All it has done so )an. 1was the date the new system was to go stand in lines longer than can be found at without delay. Nearly four months later, this far is remove half the seating capacity of the into effect, with the necessary testing and dis­12:15 at North Dining Hall. service is imperative to the community. It's shelter. tribution ofspecial Detex-like cards for access The Credit Union could-be accused of about time that the 24-hour tellers be more 
And the question is: Why? to the machine to take place for a couple of misleading advertising when they say they are than ugly decoration on ugly buildings. 

P. 0. BoxQ 
excitement and anticipation of sport; a vast Second, is the tournament conducted just names. number of young men relating on a very for the players themselves? It is witnessed by More respect would be shown for the
Clever but clean 
basic wavelength -the physical, athletic, or the entire Notre Dame community. (Its women associated with the Bookstore "animal" level. main sponsor -The Obse1·ver, has a circula­tournament, and more enjoyment provided DearEditor: Many of the team names so implicated the tion of 12,000!) Proper action was taken this for the community, if a team-naming policy 
On the night of March 21, the library animal level as to now be unprintable. year, in the substitution of a team number of "clever but clean" was instituted in the auditorium was packed for the annual cap­I can imagine only one set of cir­for an offensive name. But readers surely years to come. tain's meeting kicking off Bookstore Basket­cumstances which might validly permit the don't derive as much enjoyment reading ball. It seemed the main attraction of the uncensored usage of this year's list of team numbers as they could reading clever john Regalbuto night was not cursory goings-over oftourna­names. One, if the room had contained only ment rules or the handing out of schedules, men, and two, ifthere wa~ not the possibility but the reading of the 512 team names. As of anyone outside the .room hearing the Bookstore has evolved, it seems that a main names. Only then might the usage of these portion of the associated excitement comes names approach "being kept in the proper from the usage of team names, many of perspective." which one might perceive as incongruous The surroundings of the Bookstore with the spirit of the University sponsoring cournament dictate that this will never be the event. the case. First, what respect was shown for 
Team names didn't have to be read; the women present at this meeting -the schedules could have been easily distibuted women who were handling out the com­as the rules were gone over, instead of the plete, uncensored schedules? Due to the time-consuming process which required psychological differences between man and them to be handed out in batches, afer each woman (man being more "the animal"), a twenty names were announced. But that list of crude, sexually offensive names would have spoiled some of the fun. among a group entirely composed of men 
But for one or two neglected considera­might be laughed at in an "animal" sort of tions, the anual reviewing of this long, often way. Even then it seems there is the pos­off-color list might in some ways be viewed sibility of a resulting disrespect for others. as healthy; as comradely, conducted in the With women present, the recital of this list proper perspective. There were positive ele­definitely becomes abusive and disrespect­ments to this year's meeting -a shared ful. 

~~~~=========== 
Box Q, .'\'utreDame, L\'4655fl 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the stud(:nts of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eitl-ter institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on.campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic SaintMary'sEditor...............Anne Monastyrski ManagingEditor....................Margaret Fosmoe SportsEditor .............................Michael Riccardi Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor··········"·:,......,.,......Sarah Hamilto-n News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower 

Department Managers 
BusinessManager ........................Daniel O'Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas SystemsManager ...........................Bruce Oakley Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 
r 
I 
I 




Sports=l=l=r=r,=·e~~t.=.:s===~===========Tu=e=sd=ay=,A=p=ri=l1=9,=1=98=3=p=a=ge=8 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
The Dancin' Irishwill hold an organizational meeting for all those interested in trying out for next years squad tomorrow night at 6:30 in the Little Theater of La Fortune. -The Obseroer 
The NV A Golf Tournament is scheduled for 
9:30 a.m. on Sunday, April 24. Foursomes should call 6100 to find out their tee-off times. Also, the NVA office announced that the grad school softball captains must turn in their team records. -The Ob­
server 

Milt jackson, a freshman split end for the Notre Dame football team will be the guest tonight on "Speaking ofSports". The program airs from 10-11 p.m. on WSND AM 64. The topic will be spring football. Call 9-239-6400 to ask any questions or offer com­ments for Jackson. -The Observer 
The ND Sailing Team captured first place in the Xavier University Spring Regatta in Cincinati this past weekend. Leading the Irish to the overall victory was senior Donald Machado and his crew Stephanie Kominiarek who placed first in the F) Divi­sion B. Freshman Ted Ganley placed second in the Laser Division A, while classmate Pat Flood finished third in the Laser Division B. junior Chris Hussey and his crew, Shelia Logan, placed third in the FJ Division A. The team travels to Ohio State next weekend for its final regatta ofthe spring. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Equestrian Club is looking for new members. Anyone interested in joining should contact AI Kane at 3423. -The Observer 
ByJANE HEALEY 
AssistantSports Editor 
After what Coach Sharon Petro described as a "lovely" weekend, the Notre Dame women's tennis team is one step closer to getting to the 
NCAA Division II tournament. The 
Irish beat Southern Illinois-
Carbondale 6-3 on Saturday, and 
then squeaked by Southern Illinois­
Edwardsville 5-4 on Sunday. 
Carbondale, a Division I team, was 

scheduled to give Notre Dame some 
more tough competition before get­
ting into post-season play. But they 
served a much better purpose for 
Petro and her team. 
"The Carbondale matches set a 

good tone for the weekend," Petro 
said. "It was a good way to end Satur­
day and get ready for Sunday." 
The positive ending on Saturday was provided by the No. 2 doubles team of Lisa LaFratta and Susie Pan­ther. After the first two sets of their match the score stood at 4-6 and 6-4. They were down 1-5 with the seventh game at love-3. 
"I was aware of the score, but I wasn't paying much attention to them," Petro said. "I kept looking over and they were still playing and still playing. The other girls only needed one point to put the match away, and they had three chances af­ter that." 
But the Fighting Irish spirit never 

gave up. In one of the best com­
ebacks in the program's history, 
Panther, LaFratta star 
Irish on the way to NCAA tourney 
LaFratta and Panther came back to 
win the set 7-'i, and the match. The 
excitement of Saturday's finish set 
the scene for Sunday's competition. 
Edwardsville is one of two Divi­sion II teams that Notre Dame plays this spring, along with Morehead State. Those also happen to be the two Midwest teams that received bids to the NCAA tournament last 
year. The Irish had recently defeated Morehead, and had previously defeated Edwardsville in the fall. Petro reasoned that ifthe Irish could get by Edwardsville once more, they would be shoe-ins for a bid. 
"It was a lovely day, a lovely weekend," said Petro. "The air was a little chilly, but we went on the court at 10 a.m. to play. About an hour later, we were in blinding snow. We had to move the matches indoors, and that's when things got exciting." 
After the singles matches were over, and two of the doubles matches were completed, the team totals were tied at 4-4. The deciding match was the No. I doubles, be­tween Pam Fischette and Mary Col­ligan of Notre Dame and Laurie Foederer and Patty Tiddy for Ed­wardsville. 
With the other matches over, all eyes were on top doubles match. Fis­chette and Colligan were up 5-0 in the first set, but let up a little before getting the 6-2 victory. In game two, they again were ahead 5-0, and this 
time slipped to a 'i-4 score. "On match point, Fischette just put the ball down the line," Petro said. "It was a perfectly clean shot. There was no one there. 
"That was the best doubles I've ever seen at Notre Dame. The inten­sity they both showed was great. They just stayed in there and pumped and pumped for point after point." 
The match gave Notre Dame a 5-4 
victory and almost certainly ce­
mented an NCAA invitation. A com­
mittee offive coaches (including the 

Moorehead and Edwardsville coaches) will review the Division II teams before coming out with the official bids on May 2. There will be eight teams invited to Cal Poly Pomona on May 9 to 14 to compete for the national title. 
While the Irish wait it out, they still have a schedule to play. Today, the team is at the University of Northern Illinois in Dekalb to battle another Division I team. 
"It should be a tough matchup," Petro said. "They are coming off a close loss to Eastern Michigan. Also, I'm a little worried about a letdown. We're tired from the indoor matches, the traveling, and the schoolwork at this time ofyear. It's a taxing schedule, but it will all be worth it ifwe get our bid." 

The Observer. LaFortune office accepts classified 
,. 
advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 
p.m., Monday through Friday.




Classifieds 

LOST MANS WATCH AT MUD VOL· NEED RIDE TO I.U FOR UTILE FIVE­PLEASE HELP Ill NEED GRADUATION MECHANICS is not lor the unCOOR· Just when you thought it was sate, it LEYBALL COURTS GIVEN TO APR22 JOE 1154 TICKETStil Call Shern at 2965 Will pay DINA TEd I strikes. .THE OBSERVER STAFF
NOTICES 
SCOREKEEPER PLEASE CALL B317 $ 

FORUM II Yes. folks, the event of the Need R1de to Los Angeles area aher ex­Foo-Foo·Town: Do you feet lucky? season IS here Tonrght. In the Library TYPING AVAILABLE. 2B7-40B2 FOUND A set of keys tor Am. t35 With ams 10 May Will share usual. Must get to Duck Aud1tor1um at 7 p.m. ALL Observer 19B1 Woodcreek key chain It you want SISters graduatiOn. call TIM 6853 employees are 1nv1ted to attend. Rumor 
TYPING. Jack1e Boggs. 6B4-B793. them call 2736 aher 10 pm BRIAN & JEFF. Great Party! We are be­

PERSONALS 
has 11 that 1t Will be SRO, so arnve early to 1 GOLDEN DOME hat OR 1nlo on how to hmd you, even tf you are Hoosters assure a good seat Refreshments Will be EXPEIENCED TYPIST WILL DO LOST· PAIR OF LADY'S BROWN LEAT· get one -CALL MO SMC4412 -WGRBFMB6 served tollow,ng the gala affair RSVP.
THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM COMES TO TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES HER GLOVES W/TAN FUR LINING. 
NOTRE DAMEIII The Notre Dame Stu­
CALL 2B7·5162 LOST ON FRIDAY BETWEEN BADIN Wanted Backpacks BP 3S ITS GETTING UGLY IF YOU HAVE $160 AND A WAY TO
dent Players present the mag1c of MAN
HALL & ENGINEERING AUD. OR IN Do you have an extenor-lrame backpack NEW YORK. YOU CAN BE IN EUROPE EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL ENGINEERING AUD CALL DARLENE you would like to sell? Maybe two or Amt, BY THE DAY AFTER TOMORROW
OF LA MANCHA. comu'lg to the stage of 
Wash1ngton Hall on April 21 ,22, and 23
YEAR FLEXIBLE HOURS. MONTHLY 6980 three? Cal• or J1m (but not Ed) at Ca va bten? Merct beaucoup pour les 
FOR DETAILS. CALL AIRHITCH. TOLL­PAYMENT FOR POSTERS Thank you fleurs. Elles me fatsatent Ires contente!
at Bp.m. T1ckels go on sale Wednesday,
PLACING B641 FREE, (BOO) 372-1234 ON CAMPUS. BONUS BASED ON LOST Gold bracelet With charm around J'espere de trouver qu1 vous etes
April 13, at-the Student Umon t1cket otf1ce. Pr~ces are $3.50 1n advance and $4 at the door There are only three mghts 
RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS Flanner or Grace. Fr~day, Apr 8. If found 19B2 Female grad student lookmg tor -Kathy UMOC UMOC UMOC UMOC 
WELL B00-526-0883 please call4340 (SMC) Reward roommate to share apt. m Ch1cago thiS year. so get your tickets early;
Please call (312) 687-8723 atte 7 p m And the Lord sa1d unto them. Let yourremember what happened to Cabaret
Part t1me or Summer-Energy department STEVE KELLEY, BOB POWERS, DUCK ughness shtne forth among men Ugly
tickets' Don't miss the best show ol the
Sales. Energy Aud1tmg, L.S. Ayers 291-WANTED Companoon tor coast-to-coast AND TEAM: Whether you w1n or lose 1n Man 1s com1ng 7700 Ext. 202B FOR RENT b1cycle tnp across the U S Start from the Bookstore Tourney. you·u always be 
season-MAN OF LA MANCHAIIII 
Oregon around May 22 9 to 10 weeks. winners 1n our book! J & P IF YOU'RE INTO SPEED or entOY ex­
WE SLAM NO DUNKS!!
Boarding horses 1 mt from N.D. Covered need be only m1ldly crazy Call M1ke at erctse tn the spnng atr, s1gn up tor the AN arena. 277-5B28 (r1ng 12x) 4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all 15B2. Happy Birthday Beth Spraul and to all
WE SLAM NO DUNKS!! 
TOSTAL CHARITY 5K RUN th1s weekWE SLAM NO DUNKS11
ut11it1es 1nctuded June or Sept Call 319-those men 1n love w1th her. she·u be 
dur1ng d~nner 1n the d1n1ng halls ThiS 3 1­UMOC IS BACK!!!! 322-B735 Pany WANTED ENGLISH TEACHER FOR acceptmg flowers, presents. cards and
WE SLAM NO DUNKS!/ 
mlle race w1ll be held th1s Sat~rday ThereWE SLAM NO DUNKSII
PRIVATE LESSONS. 5 HOURS WK. k1sses all wetk Have a great one 
IS a $3_ 00 reg1strat1on tee With all Hey everybody, 6 bedroom house 4rent completly CALL EVENINGS FROM 9· 1 t PHONE WE SLAM NO DUNKS!! Love, 
proceeds g01ng to S1ster Mar~tas School Especially w1th exams com1ng. pray to turn1sed at 806 n sliOIUS also secu1ty 234-0141. EXT. 339. Paula. Steph and Karen 
Medals tor 1st-61th men & women, ALL St Jude. He listens! alarm system connected to pollee for fur­The Ark Is coming! 
FINISHERS ELIGIBLE FOR PRIZES MMC ther 1ntormat1on calif 362-7160 excellent RIDE NEEDED to Cleveland wknd of 
donated by Athletes Foot condition pnce negotiable 23rd. Call 239-591 B. leave message tor Molarity, Simon, Fate, Aspirin­
T1mM Get the Porn out of the l1branes! man . . would you liJ<e to join the ranks of 
WGRB FM 86 says GOOD-BYE Summer Schoof? Apts tor Rent near N.D. these modern campus cartoon legends? 
HOOSIERS! Ut1ht1es Pd Less Gas ph.272-0261 Need RIDERS to DAYTON tor graduaflon Never trust anything mechanical THE OBSERVER IS look1ng for campus (Apr 22-24) Julle-3725 com1c stnps tor next year Submtt ex­4 BEDROOM HOUSE. GOOD SAFE Beth HackeH tor UMOCIIII amples to Cartoon Contest. The Ob­AREA. FURNISHED. LIKE-NEW INTE­MARK FISCHER FOR UMOC! server. P 0. Box Q Questions? Call 
TOGA RIOR $400/ mo & utll MUST SEE. 2B7· COME PLAY QUARTERS AT ANTOS­Margaret al239-5303 TOGA $50 REWARD!!! Dame! Hechler black 3530 Day. 233-9947 N1ght TAL MORE INFO COMING!!! TOGA Jacket w1th red 1ns1de. Lost 1n South Dm1ng haven't seen an elkhart personal1n a long TOGA Hail before Easter Please call 277-2222. .Faculty.. ~~ Grad Students 4 Bedroom Thinking ol going to the NUMBER ONE t1me. have you? from grappler to lethargic TOGA N• QUESTIONS House. tully turn1shed with washer/dryer baseball town Is anyone 1nterested 1n throat tn only two months, but 1 love h1m TOGA

FOR SALE 

N1ce! $400/month. 28B-3109 go1ng to ST. LOUIS tor the weekend of even more TOGA LL -3T: One Pa~r of Bronze/Brown metal Apr~l22-24? I really need the riders. must TOGA traoned GLASSES Lost 10 the vic1nrty of NEED A CHEAP PLACE TO STORE celebrate my 2t st 1n style. Call Doane at TOGA 
STANFORD lobby after the Mr. Stanford TOGA
YOUR STUFF OVER THE SUMMER ? House for sale. Umvers1ty Hetghts. 3 79B3 LEAVING SOUTH BEND TO SEE ALL Contest on Fr~day April B. They have a PLEASE CALL MARIE 277-0487 bedrooms. $12,000 total. tmmed1ale AMERICA NEED ADVENTUROUS TOGATOGATOGA h1qh sentimental value bemg that without Terms. 319-322-B73~. Pat Volunteers needed Saturday A M . Apnt TRAVELER TO SHARE EXPENSES3-5 TOGATOGATOGATOGA 
them I cannot see!! It found please call or 5-BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL $400 30th. to canvas door-to-door 1n the South MONTHS.LIVE CHEAP:MY CON­CAVANAUGH rei•Jm them to J1m at B708-07. 329-30 233-6779. LOT FOR SALE 157 RIVRSIDE AVE Bend communtty tor $1 donat1ons tor VERTED VAN DEPARTING MAY CALL FRIDAY NIGHT Stanford. (REWARD) DILLON HALL. CONTACT WGRB FM Logan s SPECIAL OLYMPICS FOR INFO 2BB-4255 ASK FOR BRIAN 930 
TO GRAD STUDENT FOR FALL FUR­PROGRAM FOR THE HANDICAPPED STTRAIGHTS ONLY PLEASE 
APPROPRIATE DRESS MANDATORY LOST: wallet lost Thurs. mte at campus 
NISHED. SPACIOUS 3-BEDROOM 75 Austin Mar1na (Br1t1sh Leyland).4 cyl .4 Get your fnends to JOin you '" th1s v1ew-southern section park1ng lot. No$$ HOME. SW. SIDE OF SO BEND ON door. 4 speed,cleean.52000 mt ,good fundra1s1ng efforrt logan needs YOU! HI MIMI!!!!! (FROM THE LOSER.) was tn it, but there IS a reward offered for BUS LIN $400/MO . ALL UTILITIES IN­mpg. $ 1400 .239-629B(day),234-Call esc 239·5293 or 239-7862 to s1gn We won't be geHing drunk at the Ken­lis return. Call M1ke 233-606B 11 found CL. SMALL DEPOSIT 287-3073. 3462(eve.) up Don I forget tomorrows NOAA banquet tucky Derby unless will meet tonight at 
;::-·l~ase. Don I forget tom morrow s NOAA banquet 7:30 In Haye&-Healy Auditorium. TO SUBLET 1 BEDROOM APART­What did Mike Doonesbury and Mark Sonce 1111 be too late to study aherward Election ol officers and discussion ol FOUND ON SOUTH QUAD: Cas10 flve­activities of occur. Questions should
MENT. GREAT LOCATION ON Slackmeyer lind In their search lor Cont1nue Ihe celebratoon at Rafferty s! h1nctl0n watch. Has lnttlals on the back. RIVES!DE DR COMPLETL Y FUR­America? I don't know either, but I See everyone there! be directed to John at 2197. I ue, w1th Sliver watchband. Call Marty at NISHED FOR SUMMER MONTHS want to lind out. See the WANTED add 1 122. CALL SEAN 2B9-9309 lor bicycling companion. You ve been wa1t1ng all year Now IS the 
If's ugly Its tat. Its a more gruesome tome. Later thiS week. M1ke GORGAR I ·.,st an Indoor /outdoor Spald1ng basket­Please Help' Need One LOWER ARENA Observer reporters. producflon workers. s1ght than Fr Peter Norros If's J1m Gurdak and hos DISAPPEARING 
' •II at Stepan #3 on Tues. at about 4 ·30. TICKET for GRADUATION EXERCISES artists. photographers. newsed1tors, HAIRBALL Schuetz tor UMOCI UMOC! GOLDFISHooo ; 1e ball was brand spank~n· new and a ~-Will trade one upper arena t1cket or wtll dayed1tors. typeseHers. copyed1tors. UMOCIYAFDI! g1.!. Please g1ve Pat a call at B625 11 you WANTED buy. Please call Debb1e at 234-7961 and bus1ness-types If's almost here -MIKE GORGAR GURDAK FOR 
fr ~,,,the ball by m1stake or found 11. THE OBSERVER STAFF FORUM II DEAR MARTY VETTEL WISH YOU UMOC THE LEGEND LIVES ON'!I(HE
Thanks! Tuesday mght at 7 p.m. 1n the Library WERE HEAR! LOVE LINDA ONLY LOOKS LIKE HE S DEAD!!) L JST: Wilson raquetbll raquet 1n south Wanted to sublet two bedroom HELP! Last member ot good Catholic Audttonum Come w1th complatnts, ques­a· 11ng hall Tuesday mght. Please call house/apt from June 1 to Aug. 31 Call famoly (o.e large) needs SEVEN gradua­ltons or suggestiOns It noth1ng else. drop PAUL AND JACK. We don I use morrors. Ronda. Amy. Ed. and Moke You make to ·57 11 to·und. or drop outs1de 260 Badln­232 232-1603 or 233-9872. Call aher tion tickets W1ll pay $$$ Call M1ke at by fUSt to meet some ot your colleagues the wrestltng was fun. but now 1fs t1me to every day my b1nhday I love you guys!' rv quest1ons asked. 5 00 p.m 1159 after 11 pm By there. g1ve tn to cur demands ! M & A Dorothy





c------------~ ------­
The Observer Tuesday, Aprill9, 1983-page 9 
Yesterday's Results 

Stepan 1 WEBB's Encore over Wave Your by 7 Frnal 512 Or Bust over 8th Floor Losers by 1 0 Teqwlla Whrte Lrghtntng Itt over J B & Co by 13 
Stepan 2 Boom Boom over Capt Crunch .22-21 Nutmeggers Are Back Agarn over Bleed1ng Ax Wounds by5 B1gger. Better. over Love & The Shootrng Stars 5 
Stepan 3 B 0 & The Bounc1ng Balls over Cancelled Due To Lack Of Interest by 8 NEao·s IV over Team #263 by a Play At Your Own R1sK over WBBS by 13 
Stepan 4 Yank over Sons Of Thunder 23-21 Team #257 over Orange Crush by 10 Double Decker Oreo Cookre over Runmng Rebels by 
Stepan 5 Fun Bunch Frve over Showdown by 3 
Stepan 6 4 Guys Who Haven t .over That's Rrght. Wez Bad by 7 
Stepan7 Mercury Morns Chose Coke Over Pepsr over Shan· dell by 12 

The 'Thirsty Thirty·-two' . • • 
Bookstore Tournament 


Belles defeated by we_ather, Huntington 
ByJUDY MCNAMARA 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Despite fiercely cold winds and sub-freezing tempatures, the Saint Mary's softball team completed one game of their sceduled double­header against Huntington College yesterday. The Belles fell victim to the visitors from Huntington who endured the adverse conditions and defeated Saint Mary's by a score of 
8-4. 
"We felt obliged to ·play them since they made the trip up and wanted to play at least one game", said head coach Scott Beisel. "We probably would have cancelled both games but we weren't able to con­tact them before they arrived." 
The Saint Mary's squad felt the af­fects of the cold and showed this in their play. 
"The girls seemed a second slow in everything they did and were just outplayed by Huntington", said Beisel. 
The Belles had an opportunity to swing the momentum ofthe game to their favor in the third inning but failed to send runners home. With the bases loaded and a full count situation facing her, sophomore 
Mary Lynn Mulcahy tooK ner tlnal 
MIXED DOUBLES RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS 

The deadhne for play rs Tuesday. Apnl 26 Any fa1lure to play or report scores w111 constrtute a wrthdrwal from the tournament 
Asar'l'oNorns (277-0607) vs O'Learjl'oRoberts (239· 5106) 
Hansor'l'oBcuqarlly ( 1770) vs Hatfrel&oWalsh (8085) Runge'lloSchmtd ( 1 073) vs Pons~Durene (8836) Derengosl&oOtll vs. TBA 
MEN'S DOUBLES RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS 

Schrer'l'oMtnondo (3667) vs Vanderbecl<oFhttre (277· 2163) Schnerde'lloMtlla (6728) vs Browr'l'oErsengruber (3261) Hatfrel6oO'Bnen ( 1064) vs Khnl<ofrasqurne (8635) 
Stepan 8 P1g Bag over Rousseau·s Noble Savages by 5 
Bookstore 9 John Shoe & The Sneakers over We Go 5 by 5 US over Beaucoup by 16 Sacral Retards over Gentol Express 23-21 Even-less Jacksonless Frve over Passron 8 Romance & Oommres From Mars by 7 
Bookstore 10 Ja·s Men over Team #361 by 3 3 Beers & 2 Grape NehlS Please over Chtcks Drg Us by 3 4 Jerks over 43C -130 by 9 Bad To The Bene over John Holmes by 14 
Lyons 11 The Bnck Throwers overTearn #65 by 15 Macn s Preferred Stock over Our Last Chance To Take No Pnsoners by 8 SWC over The Creamers by 2 
Cash Amberg & The Country Boys over Vanilla Won­ders by 12 
Lyons 12 Armed & Dangerous M-21 Explosrve B·Ball Untt over Motown by 2 
Ralph1e .over People Who Dred by 8 Pang loss .over The Scream1ng by 7 Joe Jakubtk over MacNamara's Band by 11 
END OF ROUND FOUR 
pitch watching and was called out on strikes. Rose Anderson was up to bat next with two outs and the bases still loaded but grounded out to the short-stop and ended the Belle's ral­ly. 
"We had our chances and left a lot of players on base but never quite put anything together," said Beisel. "We really felt the cold and it showed." 
Sophomore short-stop Trish Nolan was a bright spot in Saint Mary's chilly defeat yesterday, as she hit one triple and one single for the Belles. Other players who hit singles were Elaine Suess, Teresa McGinnis, Anne Armstrong, Barb Theiss and the very promising freshmen first baseman Diane Yasinsky. 
Senior Mary Bayless pitched the 
losing effort for Saint Mary's walking 
six hitters and striking out one. 
This loss gives the Belles a season 
record of3-3 which they will try and 
improve on in their next game 
against Manchester College. The res­
chedualed double-header will be 
played away in Manchester on Wed­
nesday. Saint Mary's will be home 
again on Saturday to face Sienna 
Heights College on the tleld behind 
Angela Atheletic Facility at I :00 p.m. 
MEN'S OPEN RACQETBALL PAIRINGS 
All matches must be played by Fnday. Apnl22. The results should be called rn as soon as possrble to 239· 6100 rn order to ftnd out your next opponent and to fac1lrtate the completron of the tournament. If you do not report scores. you wrll be dropped from the tournament 
Panchal ( 1940) VS McCabe (233-6068) 
Screrl vs. (wmner of above match) 
S1mpson (3336) vs Gordon (6303) 
Crndnc vs. (Winner of above match) 
Rrchardson (233·6031) vs Marks (3543) 
Runger ( 1 073) vs Purk ( 1152) 
Brown (3261) vs. Alba (234-5414) 
Meakrn (6863) vs. Doorus (3185) 
Lachance (8179) vs Brenton (3103) 
NHL PLAYOFFS

~.......... ............ 
Division Fin•ls 
PATRICK DIVISION N.Y.Isfanders vs. N.Y. Rangers 

Serres lied 2·2 
Islanders 4. Rangers 1 
Islanders 5. Rangers 0 
Rangers 7, Islanders 6 
Rangers 3. Islanders 1 
Tomorrow at Islanders. 8.05 Fnday at Rangers, a·os Sunday at Islanders. 7:05 
ADAMS DIVISION Buffalo Sabres va. Boston Bruins 

Senes tred at 2·2 
Buffalo 7. Bcston 4 Bcston 5. Buffalo 3 Buffalo 4, Bcston 3 Best on 6. Buffalo 2 
Tomorrow at Bcston. 7 35 Friday at Buffalo. 7 35 Sunday at Bcston. 7 05 
SMYTH DIVISION Minnesota North Stars vs. Chicago Black Hawks 
Chucago leads the senes 3-1 Chicago 5. Mrnnesota 2 Chicago 7. Mrnnesota 4 Mrnnesota 5. Chrcago 1 Chrcago 4. Mtnnesota 3 (tn overt 1me) 
Tomorrow at Chrcago, a35 Fnday at Mtnnesota. 9 05 Sunday at Chrcago, 8 35 
NORRIS DIVISION Edmonton Oilers vs. Calgary Flames 
Edmonton leads tne senes 3·1 Edmonton 6. Calgary 3 Edmonton 5. Calgary 1. · 
Edmonton 10. Calgary 2 Calgary 6. !=dmonton 5 
Tomorrow at Edmonton. 9 05 Fnday at Calgary. 9 05 Sunday at Edmonton. 8 05 
Today's Games 

Stepan 1 B1gger. Better. Smoother. Drunker. & Qurcker Than Average v Ptg Bag (6 15) 
Stepan 3 Dou ble Decker Oreo Cookre v. Frnal 512 Or Bust (615) 
Stepan 5 Play At Your Own R1sk v Mercury Morns Chose Coke Over Pepsr (6 15) 
Stepan 7 Fun Bunch Frve v Nutmeggers Are Back Agarn (6 15) BookstoreS 
B.O & The Bounc1ng Balls v. Yank .(4:00) WEBB s Encore v Boom Boom (4 45) NEBO s IV v Team #257 (5 30) Even-Less Jacksonless Frve v. Joe Jakub1k 
(615) Bookstore 10 Macn s Preferred Stock v Ralph1e ( 4 00) US v 3 Beers & 2 Grape Neh1s Please (4 45) SWC v. Pangloss ..(5 30) Bad To The Bone v. Sacral Retards (6 15) 

Lyons 11 John Shoe & The Sneakers v. Ja's Men (5:30) Cash Amberg & The Country Boys v. 4 Jerks 
(615) Lyons12 

Bnck Throwers v Armed & Dangerous M-21 Ex· plos1ve B·Ball Unrt (5 30) Tequrlla Whrte Lrghtnrng Ill v 4 Guys Who (6 15) 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Today's Games 

Stepan 1 Oreos vs. Cameras (4) Kahlua and the Cremes vs Neghgence (4 45) 
Stepan 2 TBA vs Real Farley Women (5 30) Last Drool vs Blow-offs (6 30) 
Stepan 3 We Atn't So Bad vs. Double Trouble (4) Chrppendales vs Pneumothorax (4 45) 
Stepan6 Who Cares vs. Annette Buford (4) Leather and Lace vs. Rtm Wreckers (4 45) 


Benoit breaks record 


Meyers captures Boston Marathon 
BOSTON (AP) -Greg Meyer won the 87th Boston Marathon today, and American record holder joan Benoit shattered the world women's marathon mark by nearly 
three minutes. 

Benoit was clocked unofficially in 
2:22.43. The previous mark was 
2:25.29 by New Zealand's Allison Roe·at New York in l98I and was equaled by Grete Waitz on Sunday in London. 
"I told Allison (before the race) that usually when I run I want to run people into the ground," Benoit said. "Today I just wanted to do the best I could. That is what I did." 
Benoit, a native of Portland, Maine, and now a coach at Boston University, said the "low point" came at Wellesley Hills, halfway into the race, when "I developed a stitch in my left side.".Otherwise, she said, "I was in complete control at all times." 
Meyer was clocked unofficially at 2:09, which would be the third fas­test Boston marathon and tenth among world marathoners. 
"I took the lead where I lost it two years ago -between the first and second of the hills leading into Bos-

Wild Wheel 
Crab Races/ 
ton," Meyer said. 
Meyer, whose only previous Bos­ton Marathon experience was an "embarrassing" IIth-place finish in 198I, was made the No. I pick this time off his remarkable record over the past eight months. 

Ron Tabb of Eugene, Ore., was second and Benji Durden of Stone Mountain, Ga., tlnished third. 
Bill Rodgers, a four-time Boston winner, was the sentimental favorite but was left weak and dizzy by a cold and finished I Oth. 
Every Tuesday night in the Terrace Lounge, experience Wild Wheel Crab Races! FREE Registration 

at 8~30 p.m. select a crab from our stable, and anxiously await the 9:00p.m. post time! Prizes will be awarded to the winners. 
Between races, drink discount prices will be spinning on our Wild Wheel! Wherever the wheel stops, that's the price for drinks during the next 15 minutes, as low as 50¢! 
Come out. of your shell at the Terrace Lounge every Tuesday for South Bend's only Wild Wheel Crab Races! 

I 
I 
• 
The Observer 

The age of astroturf 
It's baseball season! In case you haven't noticed, and 
although it doesn't feel like it, the pennant races have 
commenced and the summer game is back -which 
must mean that the Cubbies are losing, the Chicago 
papers are picking the Sox to win the A. L. West and that 
Billy Martin is managing the Yankees, again. Some 
things never change. 
April means that this is "The Year" for those talent­laden Expos, that the Dodgers are in decline and the Padres are on the rise. 
Baseball is all about sunshine, beer, peanuts, hot dogs 
and an exciting day ofentertainment on a verdant green 
plain of ... AstroTurf. 
AstroTurf? Yeah. Many of us are among the the first generation to have grown up watching baseball played on both Monsanto's green grass as well as God's. And for some of us, it's just not baseball without it. 
The openers for the Cubs and White Sox were great examples of "Grassball," while the team I follow, the Phillies, are one of the National League teams to play "Turfball." 
If you're from Philadelphia, or Cincinnati, or Pitts­burgh, or St. Louis, you remember most ofyour baseball being played on AstroTurf. You also remember World Championships. And that, I think is not just a coin­cidence. 
Turf teams play a different style of baseball. It's a speed game, rather than a power game. In the National League, the league of turf (and in Kansas City), we've seen a faster game on defense and offense. The key to winning baseball today is the number of burners you put on the basepaths. Last year's champion St. Louis Car­dinals were able to defeat the favored "Harvey's Wal­lbangers" of Milwaukee with speed. Their key players are Lonnie Smith, David Green and Willie McGee ­burners all. Of course, the Cards had Keith Hernandez and George Hendrick to bang 'em in, but the Redbirds remained a thoroughly modern ballclub. 
The Sox opening series was against the Baltimore Orioles in the dinosaur ... er, American League, and they had a marvelous game of "wait to see who'lt hit it out ofthe park more." While home runs are the quintes­sential baseball thrill, it is no thrill to watch I H guys 

Michael Riccardi 
Sports Editor 


standing around waiting for a blast from somebody ... anybody. 
AstroTurf frees baseball teams from the power game. Even in the American League, the Kansas City Royals have used their AstroTurf home floor to gain an ad­vantage on the rest of the league. 
This is where the National League's AstroTurf fields come in. With halfofthe league playing on the stuff, and every other team used to it, the N. L. enjoys a wide­open, exciting, speed game. And junkballers don't get to stick around very long because balls skitter through the faster infields. Apologies to Phil Niekro (who throws in a grass park), but it is clearly the power pitcher that survives in the Senior Circuit. 
Why? AstroTurf And if the garish green stuff has made the game and its athletes a little better, or at least more exciting, what's so bad about it? 
Think about that the next time you sit throgh a four­hour game at Comiskey Park ... without one stolen base or hit-and-run play. 
Answers to the last sports trivia quiz: 

1. Dave McNal(y; 2. Rick Monday; 3. Ken Brett; 4. jim Palmer; 5. Len Barker; 6. Carl Yastrzemski; 7. Harmon Killebrew; 8. None; 9. Bobby Thomson; 10. 1905; 11. Shoelessjoejackson; 12. Sal Maglie; 
13. Vida Blue; 14. Ducky Medwick; 15. Ducky Medwick; J6.jim Burton; 17. Pat D'arcy; 18. 1960; 
19. Clint Hartung; 20. Bob Feller; 21. Lloyd Waner; 22. Ted Williams; 23. Cincinnati Reds; 24. First Base; 25. Vida Blue. 
c 


ATTENTION ALL Graduating Students 

Measurements will be taken for 


Caps and Gowns 

COUNSELINE A new service to the NO community 239-7793 HOURS: 4-9pm Mon-Thurs. Counseltne IS a tree. conf1dent1al telephone serv1ce that offers professronally I aped malerrals Ihal cover a w1de vaw=!l·~-~-'..~.tudent concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Frnmdshtp Bwld1ng 7 Dealmg w1th Construc11ve CrttiCtsm 8 Dealmg WJ!h Anger 9 Underslandmg Jealousy and How to Deal w1th 11 10 How to Say ·NO 16 Becommg Open to Olhers 18 Dat1ng Sk1IIS 30 An•1ety and PosstbleWays to Cope Wl/hlf 32 How to Deal wtth Lonhness 33 How to Handle Fears 35 Bu1tdmg seii·Esteem & Conl1dence 37 Aetaxmg ExerCISes 38 Cop1ng w1th Stress 39 Female Sex Role· Changes· a no Slress 44 Learnmg 10 Accepl Yourself 61 Whatts Therapy & How to Use It 83 How to Cope wtl~ a Broken Retal1onsh1p 85 Understand1ng Grtel 90 Help1ng a Fr1end 160 Early slgns ol an Alcohol Problem 161 Responstble Dectstons About Dr1nkcng 402 Seii·Asselt•veness 431 What1s Depresston 432 How to Oeat w1lh Oepress•on 433 Depress•on as a Life Style 478 Becommg Independent from Parents 479 Dealmg w1lh AlcoholiC Parents 491 Sutctdal CriSIS 492 Recogn•t:t'lg Sutctdat Potential tn Others 493 Helptng Some<?n!3 tn_a Su1ctdal Crtsts  I '  
Counseline is a completely anonymous serv.ce offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between9-5 ··CLIP AND SAVE-·  

Tuesday, April19, 1983-page 10 


It's trivia time 
• 

• • • again 
I. Who was the pitcher when Babe Ruth hit his "called home run" in the 1932 World Series? 
2. 
What Hall of Fame pitcher, while inebriated, jumped out a second story window, thinking he could fly? 

3. 
What Hall of Fame pitcher refused to pitch on Sunday, possibly costing his team at least one pennant? 

4. 
What Hall of Fame pitcher was famous for pitching both ends of doubleheaders? 5.ln the 1967 World Series, who broke upJim Lonborg's no-hitter? 


K.C. Culum Baseball Trivia 

6. 
What player has the record tor most total bases m a nme-mnmg game? 

7. 
What player broke up Harvey Haddix's no-hitter? 

8. 
Who is the only pitcher to throw a no-hitter in his first major­league game? 

9. 
In 1942, Ted Williams won the Triple Crown but not the Most Valuable Player award. Who won the MVP? 

10. 
In the 1919 World Series, a White Sox pitcher pitched his heart out in winning two games, but his teammates proceeded to throw the Series. Who was the pitcher? 


1 I. What catcher caught the most no-hitters? 
12. 
Other than Babe Ruth, what pitcher has hit the most home runs? 

13. 
Who was the first National League player to be a unanimous selection as MVP? 

14. 
Chris Chambliss hit the playoff-winning home run in the 1978 American League championship, but another player had hit a home run to tie the game in the eighth. Who was it? 


I5. Gaylord Perry pitched a no-hitter in the 196H for the Giants. The following day a pitcher from the other team proceeded to throw a no-hitter. Who was it? 
16. 
What pitcher struck out the first seven batters he ever faced in the major leagues? 

17. 
Other than Wrigley Field, what National League park is the old­est? 

18. 
What catcher caught the most games? 

19. 
What player replaced Elston Howard as the everyday Yankee catcher? 

20. 
Whom did Carl mays kill with a pitch in 1920? 

21. 
What pitcher gave up Willie Mays's first homme run? 

22. 
What pitcher gave up Hank Aaron's first home run? 

23. 
Who is the only pitcher to pitch a perfect game in relief? 

24. 
Whom did he relieve? 


25. 
What Brave pitcher caught Aaron's record-breaking 715th home run? 


for your special person 

RED ROSES ... $10.00 
doz. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

His and Hers Special 
torthe $$ $$ 
~n~s save Enter your date's name on your order · If we can match dates you get 20°/o off total order . 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:~:.: ~: ~:::::::.:::::::;::.
~··············~ 
secretary
Tuesday Apri/19, 1983 

special and 


i Thursday-i 
Beautiful bamboo vase with 2 large red roses 
includes baby breath· green ribbon & secretary pick
Wednesday Apri/20, 1983 

: The :
Between 9:00 and 4:00 

"T:,hese specials apply to large red roses only 
at the 

. Limited Quantity·

: Observer : 
sweetheart roses and other color available at our regular low prices 
::::::~:::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::·:::~:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~::::;:;:;:;:


Notre Dame 

iBookstore i 
~e call 284-4597 The Plants & Flower Shop · ~ ~0 ,;,_,o~ LeMans Hall, SMC 

Bookstore 

i Extra i­
\0 \~'?> "We might cost a little more, but we're worth it" 
,o

• .
c• :;• '~ 
I ~

.................. 
~----------~---------~------------~--~----------------~~----~------~---------------~--~------~ 
... 
Ihe~IYer========================================= 




~~4t1lC)L~=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=====T=u=e=sd=a=y=,A=p=r=il=1=9=,1=9=8=3====p=ag=e=:::ll 

Bloom County 
H£i.W MR. ROCKIN' 011\RM\f.J' HP.RMON 1!-115 IS MIKE-~NKU:Y.. 1H£ UNFORTVNP.!E PERSON YOV JUS r IV\Sf/Tl FIE.V' AS Bt!N6 THE OWNE.R 
Of A 
[300K ON PH' W£T11NG. 
I 
S.) 

.u,,___ ~'t.\ 
· l ­
il -i "'(~ ;'l 

Simon 
TELL !1[ JOHN HOW fl~E 71iCfJE Co-Ep Fk~ttet-i IN IW!f /XJ{f/1 P 
51110N ?ILL 513{/lfY fiNO Cf!ffOl 02f!RI1 f' 
I 

FRANKJX I'M 1'.\JNDE:RJNG IF YOJ REAUZ£ 1HRT [;!:IRNtP NEAR EVOOBOC'Y IN 1Hf; 
STI\1!'. U51£N51D YOUR 
RAV'IO PROCAAM ... 
\ 
ff/GIIT HOW fl/15 Tflf/T /.I TTl£ £Xf'E/finENT WoRUO CXIT? 
WELL Tfl£ P.V'I GRflfEYINE7 
5/IY& 7H!IT 5ti10N 11:5/lEO Cf!lf'OL 
01./T,//N/) :51/E 5/tiO YE'5 .' / 



The Daily Crossword 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

'f(XJ t1fi1N TO 5f!Y TflltT Dft11e's filM Co-ED liVING l/lrRIIIICtt1ENT liflj LED TO ... 
... J.f.D TO .. 
PIIT/!16 7'! 
I 
ACROSS 32 Coeurd'­1 Knife wound 33 Fish 5 Fare grouping 
computer 34 Govt_ agency 10 Kitchen 35 Fatigue 
need 36 Mirthful 14 Yearn 37 Bearing 15 Japane:se 38 Heart test 
port letters 16 Govt_ anent 39 "As You 17 Completely Like It" 
uncurb1td character 20 Nourished 40 Boxer 21 SoothSllyer Roberto 22 "-Marne" 41 Repeats a 23 Santa's performance 
wares 43 Frilly 24 Rookie appearance 25 Corner!;tone 44 War god 
installers 45 Slender 28 Don't giive 46 Speaks up pompously 

Monday's Solution 



~...,.,..._.•._..,_.••J'.·.·······.-.···············J'.-ti'J'J'••.-.•.·.·.•J'.·.•...·.·.-.·.·."J..-tl'ti'.-J'.-.YJ'r."' 
STUDENT UNION 
$ 
PUBLICITY DEPT. NEEDS 



Poster ttangers 

for the 83 · 84 school year. Contact Ann at S.U. 239 · 7605 (Must demonstrate financial need) 

Berke Breathed 
... IS TH£R£ AN U.HO IN HE.RE.? Y€R ON 
1H{O AIR, BAP£. 

Campus 
•9 
a.m. -4:30p.m. -Academic Apparel Rental, For faculty and graduating seniors, Hammes Bookstore 

•3 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Men vs. Butler, Courtney Courts 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Photochlorination of Methane In a Two-Zone Reactor," Prof. Joshua S. Dranoff, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Nieuwland Science Lecture, "Biochemical Adaptation to the Environment: Micromolecular Strategies," Prof. George N. Some­ro, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Writer or Warrior: Kitamura Tokoku and Mobility of Failure," Prof. Michael C. Brownstein, Memorial Library Lounge 

•6:30 
p.m. -VideoScreening, on nuclear dis­armament, 124 Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Isis Gallery Exhibition, Eileen O'Meara, and Carl Seitzinger, Third Floor West 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Cannonball Run," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Rowing Club, 51 



\ T.V. Tonight 



Jeb Cashin 
Photius 

7:00p.m_ 
7:30 
8:00p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30 p.m. 
16 M*A*S*H 22 Laverne & Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 Allin The Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 The A Team 
22 Ace Crawford Private Eye 28 Happy Days 34 Nova 22 Gun Shy 28 Laverne and Shirley 16 Remington Steele 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Compnay 34 American Playhouse 28 9 to 5 

10:00 p.m. 16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hart to Hart  
11 p.m_  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 2H  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
11:30 p.m. 16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy & McMillan & Wite  
28  ABC News Nightline  

The Far Side 
1 Fishspear with mud 2 Farm 36 Between­
measure class 3 Lean-to moments 4 "-Haw" 37 Gooey 5 Dawdles stuff 6 Small 39 Rod of 

... 
suffixes baseball 7 Himalayan 40 "Inferno" goat author 8 Hitherto, 42 Christmas in poetry in Pisa 
9 Khayyam's 43 Suds "The-" 45 "-Enter· 
10 Office tain You" figure, 46 Thessalian for short mountain 
11 "-aman 47 US 1 and 65 with.._" 48 Brazilian 12 Notorious birds German 49 Understood 13 Before high 50 Split 
or deep 51 Monogram 18 United part: abbr. 19 Mail route 52 Egyptian 23 Actor lizard 
Franchot 54 Ait: Fr_ 24 Gray-white 55 Fido's "Calm down, Edna . _. Yes, it's some giant, mineral greeting hideous insect .... but it could be some giant, hideous insect in need of help." 
.. 
MAN of LA MANCHA 
8p.m. Tickets are on sale in the Student Union Ticket Office. 
WASHINGTON HALL 
49 Etta­SO Creek 

53 Omens 56 Imprimatur 57 Dried figs 58 Covetous 59 African fox 60 Seamstress 61 "-horse!" 
DOWN 

25 Alma­26 Similar 27 Suiting 28 Massenet 
opera 29 Ardent 30 "-America 
singing" 31 Baby-sitter in Cornwall 33 Fills in 
Tuesday, April 19, 1983 -page 12
S~orts 
Love, Showdown upset 

Weather chills heated competition 
ByJEFF BLUMB Stacey Toran out with a swelled Commissioner David Dziedzic after Sports Writer knee, along with Varner and Mansel the day's action in reference to the Carter, put on an extensive dunking brisk temperature outside. Assoc. • Bitterly cold weather and a clinic for those in attendance. Commissioner Rich O'Connor couple of upsets were the story in John Shumate's team, John Shoe remarked that this year's tourna­yesterday's fourth round action of and the Sneakers, got its first real test ment weather is some of the worst Bookstore XII. Under chilling winds, ofthe tournament before finally top­that he's seen in all the year's of his Love and the Shooting Stars and ping We Go Five, 2I-16. Shumate tournament involvement ... Today Showdown, both seeds, fell from the rose to the occasion and had his best is the fiftl!_ rol_!!ld, with there being tournament field that is now down game of the tournament, hitting on one round of games per day leading to 32 teams. eight of nine shots. up to Sunday's championship game Love and the Shooting Stars were Another tournament surprise, behind the ACC. There will be no simply the victims of more physical Three Beers and Two Grape Nehis games, however, on Thursday ... play by Bigger, Better, Smoother ... Please, also advanced to the final 32 Now that the tournament field is as they were beaten 21-16. Tackle teams, beating Chicks Dig Us by a down to 32, there will be referees Mike Shiner of the football team narrow 21-I8 margin. from here on out. Please refer to the spurred the Bigger, Better attack, Freshman Tom Walker continues schedule handed out at the captain's hitting on 10 9f 18 shots including to lead Three Beers. This time meeting and note the changes in the game winner. Walker scored nine points on I6 procedure . . . Some of the closer For Irish forward Karl Love, the shots, and was helped by the games today should be: US vs. Three loss was a disappointment because it combined eight points of Joe Don­Beers and Two Grape Nehis Please was thought that his team would go nelly andJeffAllison. at 4:45 p.m. on Bookstore IO;Brick far in this year's tournament. Seeded S.W.C. had a tough time Throwers vs. Armed and Dan­The upstart Fun Bunch Five with The Creamers before finally gerous ... at 5:30p.m. on Lyons 12; knocked off Showdown, 21-18, in a Bigger, Better ... vs. Pig Bag at 6: IS hard fought and heated battle. Rick p.m. on Stepan I; Fun Bunch Five vs. DiBernardo and Greg Dingens Nutmeggers Are Back Again at 6:1 5 
Bookstore XII

combined for 15 points and 25 p.m. on Stepan 7; and in what Asst. rebounds to pace Fun Bunch. Commissioner Skip Desjardin calls a 
Showdown was plagued by the classic battle of names, Team 374 horrendous 1-1 7 shooting of Sweet­takes on Team 30 at 4 p.m. on C Robinson and its insistence upon Bookstore 9. Check your schedule dirty play throughout the game. coming out on top by a 2I-19 score. for the names of these two teams, as Mildly put, Showdown played like Six-time Bookstore player Tim Hea­we have elected not to print them. poor sports. ly was once again the main cog for 
In one of the day's more emotion­S.W.C., scoring seven points and pul­see SCORES, page 9 al battles, Pig Bag beat Rousseau's ling down eight rebounds. Noble Savages, 21·16, despite the 3-The Creamers were no pushover, 26 shooting of Pig Bag's Milt Jack· by any means. This team, made up of 
son. The team oriented and crowd Morrissey Hall sophomores, made it 

Williams leads the pack 
favorite, Rousseau's battled long and to the final 32 last year before finally hard but could never quite losing to Mike Mitchell's team, and overcome an early lead built up by brought out a large following to all 

Building front line on 'old' talent 
Pig Bag. ofits games. 

enough of Shiner's skills to convert Scannell to repeat Williams' feat are "Heads up" was the cry heard as Boom-Boom Mancini and ... 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI last year's quick tackle, junior Mike not far-fetched according to Selmer. 
Double Decker Oreo Cookie took to somehow overcame the 1-IS shoot­Sports Writer Kelley, to center. The versatile 6-5, "Tim·is a very good young player,"the court against Running Rebels. ing of their George Eversman to 

26I-pound Kelley started all II said Selmer. "We have a lot of con­Double Decker, aided by a series of edge Captain Crunch and . . . by a 
The outlook for the I983 of­games last year after seeing action in fidence in his ability even if he is a dunks and Bill Varner's I3 points, 22-20 score. Warren Wright and 
fensive line can be characterized as a the last two games of I98I at quick litte short on experience." 
won 21-I6 in a game in which they Rich Koleki both notched six points balance between valuable old guard. Doerger, 6-5 257-pounds got more than they bargained for. for the winners. 

aspects, and potential new elements. "With continued practice he meanwhile is just too talented to There were so many dunks in this 
The old surprisingly reveals two (Kelley) can be another exceptional keep out ofthe lineup. He has fierce­game that the Running Rebels were 
juniors and a pair of fifth year red­prospect on the line for us the next ly been battling Kelley for the start­continually turning around to see BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -"I'll shirts. The new reveals an almost un­couple ofyears," said Selmer. ing center role this spring. Although, who was going to slam the ball over take warm weather and rain over believable amount of sophomores The last ve teran returning to the Kellev has the edge for the position,the top ofthem. Greg Bell, replacing this kind of weather any day," said competing for starting roles in the line is 6-5, 258 pound Neil Maune. Doerger in no way isout in the cold. 
frontline positions. Maune started the last eight games "He has shown that he is worthy 
Now that outstanding three-year last year after injuries to senior start­of playing," explains Selmer. "You starter Tom Thayer has completed ers Mark Fischer and Randy Ellis can say that he will be a swingman his football career at Notre Dame, forced them miss four games each. for us this year. He's a quality player the leadership role for the unit will The former Missouri "Prep-Lineman who if he doesn't play at center can probably be placed on 6-6, 275 of the Year" received high marks still start or help out at guard or pound Larry Williams. One of the from Selmer for stepping in and tackle." 
most sought after lineman in the performing admirably at the strong Mike Perrino, Ron Plantz, John As­country two years ago, Williams guard position. kin and Marty Roddy are four more started all 1 I games last year and An outstanding array of sopho­second year men who may be heard played more minutes than any other more talent r0und out part of the from in the fall. 
offensive player for the Irish. His Guards Perrino and Plantz were combination of strength and agility both named to the will make him a bonafide all­Spring Football Adidas/Scholastic Coach prep All­
American candidate for the next two America teams as high school years. seniors while also garnering
'83 
How good quick-tackle Mike honorable mention picks on the Na­Shiner can be is something that Sel­tional High School Athletic Coaches mer is especially anxious to find out. first unit and all of the second unit. Association squad. Like Williams last year, the 6-8, 262-"Our hope is to utilize the young­Tackles Askin and Roddy, pound Shiner had a glittering sopho­er players with the more ex­meanwhile, are tremendous more campaign in 1980. He started perienced ones to establish a good prospects at in that slot. Askin was a all I2 games in that 9-2-I campaign front line, and especially good consesus All-American his senior and was very instrumental in the depth," states Selmer. "We won't 
year at Moeller High School and was 
great success that Phil Carter and run in a whole new line at once next 
selected to theFootball News listing
Jim Stone had that year on the oft year to spell the starters, but we will of top-50 incoming freshman in the run off-tackle plays. substitute some to give a player a nation for 1982. Roddy is playing be­Being convened to a guard posi­rest. Right now, the experience of hind Williams right now, and pos­tion in I98I, he did not enjoy the these players is our biggest con­sesses the similar balance between 
level of success at the new position cern." 
strength and agility that is in Wil­as he had found the previous year. For now, the two sophomores liams. A hernia operation last year,Re-converted to tackle last year, that have the best chance of making however leaves Roddy to make upShiner had what Selmer described as an immediate impact on the team in for lost time. 
a "horrendous" fall thanks to his the fall are quick-guard Tim Scannell Rounding out the competition for 
various ailments. After first undergo­and center Tom Doerger. guard are senior
the slots Mike 
ing arthroscopic knee surgery in The 6-4, 255 pound Scannell was Walsh, junior Joe Fazio and sopho­
thumb and a sprained ankle. the only freshman offensive lineman more Farmer. Doug
Jim Seniors Quickness, experience and raw to earn a monogram last year. 
Compton and Greg Golic will talent are major assests that Shiner Though young, he can be the Larry 
provide depth at the tackle slots The Observer/John Wachter adds to the team, but Selmer feels Williams of I983. Williams also 
along with sophomore Karl Roesler 
Freshman Mary Colligan seen here in earlier action against that if Shiner is going to play in the broke into the lineup last year that 
while junior Robbie Finnegan and Northwestern, teamed up with Pam Fischette to win the deciding fall, his strength level is going to was dominated by experienced sophomores Ken Cannella and Jim doubles match in the Irish victory over University of Illinois at have to increase. veterans, and emerged with a ster­Seith will help out at the center posi­Edwardsville. See jane Healey's story on page 8. Still the coaches have thought ling performance. Such hopes for tion. 







