_.._.___ 
VOL XVII, NO. 10-! tilt' indq1l·mknt ~tudcnt t1l"\\~P~'I1lT ~en ing notre dame and ~aint mary·~ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1983 
------~---------~,.......--------~----~------­
The Bindery -page 9 


The choral group "Trini~y" entertains a large with a varie~y ofpopular songs last night. (Photo group· in the Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's by Hamil Cupero) 
Notre Dame volunteers 
Appalachia offers work experience 
By CECILIA LUCERO 
StaffReporter 
While many students opt for sun and surf during their spring break, nine to sixteen Notre Dame student~ will head to the mountains of Ken­tucky to do volunteer work for the Christian Appalachian Project (CAP). 
Moira Baker, rector of Lewis Hall, 
will coordinate the informational 
sessions designed to prepare stu­
dent volunteers for the project, 
which will take place March 14-22. 
Notre Dame organizes the 
program in conjunction with Oral 
Roberts University in Oklahoma. 
The CAP is a non-profit, non­denominational orgamzation founded in 1958 by Father Ralph Beiting, who continues to manage the project year-rotund. With an ob­jective to "respond to the cries of powerlessness," CAP volunteers help the people in Appalachia to become self-sufficient. 
"It's really a situation of third world economic development right within our own country," Baker said of the conditions in Appalachia. He added that when "the coal industry entered the area, their only purpose was to extract coal. 
"None of the wealth frorr the coal 
stayed in the area because of the tax 
system. Coal industries were really 
free from any kind of responsibility 
to support the area. They didn't pay 
much property tax, if any." 
According to Baker, no tax base exists for the region to develop educational and social systems, public sanitation and public transportation. 
The CAP relies on two sources of support for improving the Appalac­hian region,these are private dona­tions and volunteer services. Private assistance includes donations of food, clothing, and other items as well as money from fundraisers and foundation grants. -
Beiting, however, said he refuses government aid because it means too much compliance with govern­ment guidelines, "too many strings attached," according to Baker. 
Volunteer work involves an in­direct service to the Appalachian people for a briefperiod oftime. Un­der the direction of a staff of per­manent volunteers, student volunteers predominantly engage in physical labor ranging from home repair to farm work. 
Volunteers also can be asSigned to work in rummage stores, printing shops, and other small businesses that bring in a small income for a family. More direct volunteer service might involve work in a child day care center or a home for handicapped children. 
Baker said that out of respect for the Appalachian people's pride, a less direct volunteer service ap­proach is taken. 
Nevertheless, Baker said, "If it 
hadn't been for the labors of large 
numbers of temporary volunteers 
over the course ofthose thirty years, 
the project never would have been 
able to carry on. 
"Now we have a large permanent 
force of skilled professional and 
semi-professional people," she 
added. 

Through the Social Concerns Seminar offered by the Theology department, Notre Dame students study the economic, social. and political background of the Appalac­hian region -the foothills of the Cumberland Mountains in eastern Kentucky. Students also familiarize 
See WORK, page 7 


Oil war threatened by Saudi Arabia 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) ­
Saudi Arabia and its Persian Gulf oil 
allies -the biggest producing bloc 
in the world -agreed yesterday to 
cut their S;-\-1 base price and warned 
OPEC to follow suit or face an all-out 
price war. 
The amount of the cut was not 
given. but the ministers were 
reported considering a slash of up to 
$7 pt:r -12-gallon barrel. Each S I 
drop in the price pt:r barrel could 
mean a two-cent-a-gallon saving at 
the pump. 
OPEC prt:sident Yahaya Dikko of 
Nigeria, which slashed its oil price 
S5.SO a barrel Sunday, consulted 
with other oil ministers to 
determint: the time and place of an 
emergency OPEC meeting, the car­
tel said in Vienna. 
Saudi Oil Minister Ahmed Zaki 
Yamani said the agreement to cut 
the price was reached in a two-day 
meeting among Saudi Arabia, the 
United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar 
and Iraq. 
Indonesia, another OPEC mem­
ber, also agreed, he said, as did the 
Persian Gulfsheikdoms ofOman and 
Bahrain, whi.ch do not belong to the 
cartel. Libya participated in the talks 
but its position was not immediately 
known. 
Yamani threatened the gulf producers would throw their "full weight" into the market unless OPEC agreed to a collective reduced price and a new market­sharing formula. 
He cautioned "Nigeria and all producing countries" to modify their positions in order "not to start such a war." which he said would not be in their interest. 
Mana Saeed Oteiba of the Unite{· 
Arab Emirates predicted that OPEC 
would hold an emergency meeting 
next week in Vienna or Geneva. 
He said if no acceptable agree­men£ were worked out Arab gulf members of OPEC "would reduce unilaterally the prices of their crudes, at larger rates than they would have accepted within OPEC." 
Oteiba also said "coordination" contacts were to be launched with non-OPEC members Mexico, Britain and Norway who slashed S3 off the price of North Sea crude Friday. beginning the latest round ofcuts. 
The Saudi newspaper Okaz said two key points on the Riyadh agenda were "the possibility ofother OPEC states resorting to lower prices in step with the international market" and the "decrease by some OPEC states, unilaterally, of their daily crude production." 
This was the first mention that some OPEC states may cut produc­tion. Most OPEC countries are thought to be eager to sell as much crude as they can before prices fall further. 
Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, is now producing less than 4 million barrels daily, even though it has a capacity of 11 mil­lion. 
Total production for the gulf states, including Saudi Arabia, is es­timated at 10 million barrels daily, which is slightly more than halfofall OPEC production, and about one­fifth ofworld output. 

Byrne stresses unity 

in backing Washington 
CHICAGO (AP) -Defeated m­cumbent Jane M. Byrne pledged her support yt:sterday for Harold Wash-
Richard Brautigan 

Author shares poetic anecdotes 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mar)''s Executit'e Editor 
Richard Brautigan. an author whose work brought him popular acclaim in the late 1960s, rt:ad some 
f his poetry and answered ques­tions for a capacity crowd in the Library Auditorium last night as the fourth guest of the Sophomore · Literary Festival. 
Brautigan is noted for his unusual poetic style. His poems often run as short as three lines and record his personal reflections on everyday ex­perience. 
The author told of his return from a recent trip to Japan. He said the Orient, to which he was first exposed at the age of 17, has had a "profound influence" on him. Many ofthe poems Brautigan read last eve­ning were set in Japan. 
From his book "june 20th, june 20th", Brautigan read "Romance," a conjectural record of a fly's thoughts. 
Another poem, "On the Elevator," deals with two men sharing an elevator. "That man's left shoe is probably worth more than every­thing I'm wearing," he quoted. 
Brautigan, who did not tlnish high school, mentioned his limited education in a pot:m about the out­lawJesseJames;saying "My teachers could have worked .for Jesse James, for all the time they stole from me." 
Brautigan answered questions 

from the audience during a break be­tween poems. When questioned about his most popular novel, Trout Fishing in America, he said the book is about "living and dying on this third planet from the sun." 
Brautigan said that he has no philosophical, religious or political convictions. He mentioned a motto he shares with a friend in Japan ­"Eat, fish, and get drunk." He noted that he has little use for drugs be­cause he is "turned on by human in­telligence." 
Brautigan noted the fact that his work is often censored by institu­tions and criticized for its content. 
He warned the audience of his pt:nchanl'.for sexual allusions and expletives in his writing. Brautigan. age 4H, was raised in the Pacitk Northwest. He does much writing in a barn in Montana. The author is traveling to Montana after his engagement at Notre Dame. Freshman Maureen Burke, who at­tended the presentation. said she found Brautigan's work "very funny ... I could understand what he was trying to say. (He presented) very simple thoughts, deep, but under­standable. I could relate to most of them." Brautigan has written 19 books, including A Confederate General From Big Sur ( 1964 ), In Water­melon Sugar ( 1969 ), The Hawkline Monster: A Gothic Western ( 1974), and The Tokyo Montana Express 1980. 
ington in his bid to become Chicago's tlrst black mayor, asking De mocrats who voted along racial lines in the primary to rally behind the South Side congressman. 
Washington was too hoarse to at­tend his own news conference after his surprise victory over Mrs. Byrne in Tuesday's primary. 
Republicans. hoping to gain City Hall for the first time in 50 years, sent their little-known candidate on a campaign walk through the predominantly white and Hispanic home neighborhood of defeated Dt:mocratic contender Richard M. 
Daley. But GOP nominee Bernard Epton disavowed inrerest in a black-white race. "If anybody comes up to me and says they will vote for me because I'm white, as far as I'm concerned they can get lost," the former state representative said. 
An Associated Press-WMAQ 1V exit poll showed Washington got 84 percent of the votes cast by blacks but only six percent among whites. White voters were about evenly split between Byrne and Daley. 
But it also found that about two­thirds of the whites polled did not consider Washington's race impor­tant in their choice of a candidate. That compared with a 50-50 split among blacks. 
Mrs. Byrne, who had refused to 
concede Tuesday night in the city's 
See BYRNE, page 7 



News Brie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press I 
Several thousand dollars of damage to the I 
South Quad grass during the past week prompted Dean ofStudents 
james Roemer to re-issue the "Save the Lawns" directive Tuesday. 
"Organized games in the South Quad caused considerable damage," 
the directive states, "and we estimate that it will cost several 
thousand dollars to resod the entire area to its previous condition." 
Athletic games, including frisbee, the directive states, should be 
taken to adjacent fields near Stepan Center, the ACC and Greenfield. 
The directive also asks that quads not be used for "short-cut walking. Stay on the sidewalks provided."-The Observer 
Ronald YaDeau, assistant professor of music at Mil­likin University, will be the pianist for the guest artist recital at 8 p.m. March 3 in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. The recital, sponsored by the Saint Mary's department of music, is open to the public and free ofcharge. President ofthe Illinois State Music Teachers Associa­tion, YaDeau will play two sonatas by Scarlatti, "Sonata in B-flat Major," by Schubert, selections from "Douze Etudes pour le Piano" by Debussy and "Polonaise in A-flat Major" by Chopin. YaDeau is a member of the piano faculty at Millikin. He completed his under­graduate studies at Baldwin-Wallace College and received his mas­ter's and Ph.D. degrees from the University of lllinois where he served as a teaching assistant. -The Observer 
Major gifts to Saint Mary's for 1982 totaled more than $3.8 million. Those gifts included: SSOO,OOO from an anonymous parent for the Cushwa-Leighton Library; $250,000 from Mr. and Mrs. Eli Shaheen of Sturgis, Mich., for the Shaheen College Bookstore addi­tion to the Haggar College Center; $250,000 from an anonymous alumna for the rare book room in the Cushwa-Leighton Library; $100,000 from an anonymous parent for the annual fund; $100,000 from an anonymous alumna for the annual fund; $50,000 from the Cannon Fund to establish the Dorothy Delaney Endowed Scholar­ship and $40,000 in bequests. The College also received a SSOO,OOO challenge grant from the Lilly Endowment, Inc., for renovation ofthe Science Hall. In addition, 217 members ofthe Madeleva Society con­tributed over $429,273 to the annual fund. The Madeleva Society represents individuals who contribute a minimum of n ,000 per year to Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
Lay Ministry in the Churchwill be the topic of 
a lecture by Edwina Gateley tonight at 6 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Gateley is the founder of"A Voluntary Missionary Move­ment." -The Observer 
Vice president George Bushwill speak inJune 
at a GOP fundraising dinner in Indianapolis, Republican party offi­cials announced yesterday. The $125 tickets for the June 20 dinner, or SSOO tickets for a reception and the dinner, will be available from the Republican State Committee and GOP county chairmen, party officials said. The rception and dinner will be held at the Indiana Convention Center. Gordon K. Durnil, Republican state chairman, said Bush's appearance will boost the GOP fundraising efforts this year. The annual state dinner, the largest single fundraising event, 
usually attracts 2,500 people. -AP 

A contract giving union exclusive access to a public employer's interoffice mail system does not violate the free speech rights of rival unions, the Supreme Court ruled in Washington yes­terday. By a 5-4 vote, the court upheld such a contract provision negotiated between a teacher's union called the Perry Education Association and the public school system in Perry Township, located in Marion County, Ind. The decision reversed a ruling by the 7th U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals which had ordered Perry Township school officials to allow the same access to all unions. The exclusive-access 
policy had been challenged by the Perry Local Educators' Associa­tion, a union not designated as the exclusive bargaining representa­tive for the school distriCt's teachers. "Because the mail system is not a public forum, the school district had no (automatic) constitutional obligation to let any organization use the school mail boxes,"Justice Byron R. White wrote for the court majority. -AP • 
The Cleveland engineer heading a study ~ to find the cause of a bridge collapse in Antwerp, Ohio that killed five people and injured four said yesterday the most minute aspects of the span will be studied. Ralph Robison of the engineering firm of Howard, Needles, Tammen and Bergendoff said the culvert structure of the bridge was moved from under tons of rock and fill dirt this week and is being stored in a county garage. He said en­gineers will study everything from the compaction of the dirt to the design of the bridge. "We've taken a look at a lot of different things, and I'm sure one of the things we'll study is the bolts" that held corrugated steel plates in place to form the bottom of the bridge. The span, which included a I 5-foot wide culvert, collapsed the night ofJan. 16 and four cars plunged one-by-one into the ravine as they traveled along the unlighted, two-lane blacktop road between 
Antwerp and eastern sections of the county. -AP 
A 60 percent chance ofsnow today with the high in mid and upper 30s. Gradual clearing and cold tonight with the low in the upper teens and low 20s. Mostly sunny and cool tomorrow with the high in the iow and mid 30s. -AP 
Thursday, Febr"!Jary 24, 1983 -page 2 
Keep up the PACE 
Bureaucracies have been deceiving the public for years. Ever since the inception of the Xerox machine. gargantuan bureaucracies have spread as fast and thick as an Amazon jungle. Their trademarks include tons of waste paper, stacks of meaningless reports, and fields of red tape. Throw in a few thousand paper shuftlers and rambling politicians for good measure and the result is one giant orgy ofenergy and confusion. But through the sheer power of numbers of these bureaucrats and the tremendous amount of time and energy expended in 
doing whatever it is they do, the public generally believes that at least something is being accomplished. But this is exactly where the deception co ; •es into play. Behind the vigorous though chaotic facade of busy work, inane press conferences, and over publicized subcommitte hearings, lurks the true purpose of a bureaucracy: w create the illusion of progress and reform while in fact furthering the cause of stagnation and perhaps even regression. 
But we don't have to look so far as D.C. to witness such a complex and creative in­the­
stitution at work. For The admini~tration's
Qdrt}illistrationj
situated within the glorious reluctance in solving the in-
confines of our own Golden 
Dome is Notre Dame's own 
Bookshelf 
special contribution to the bureaucratic cause. Unlike in Washington, the Notre Dame bureaucracy is not buried beneath a vast paper wasteland and about the on­ly red tape one sees is evi­dent around Christmas. But the results are all too similar to those of the great bureaucracy of the capital; a lot of paper shuffling, writing of reports, and gran­diose plans but very little ac­
tion. 
The recent developments, or lack thereof, 
concerning the much heralded PACE (Priorities and 
Commitments for Excellence) report are an example of 
bureaucratic dragging-of-heels at its finest. 
The report, the result of two long, difficult years of work by dozens offaculty and administration members and students, addresses the major problems currently facing the university and recommends necessary and realistic solutions. 
But like with any bureaucracy, change at Notre Dame, no matter how worthwhile or imperative, usual­ly progresses at less than a snail's pace. Sometimes the snail doesn't even get started. 
In the January 25 issue of The Observer, managing editor Ryan Ver Berkmoes wrote about a similar univer­sity report compiled ten years ago, the COUP (Committe on University Priorities) report. Several of 
The Observer 
The Mafioso 

Desig11 Editor .. ......... Don Vito Cerabona Desig11 Assistant . ......... Honeydoll Healy l.a)•out Stuff ........ Sweetie·pic Smoot Typesetters ...............jimbino MacLt:nnan 
Big AI"Sonny" Novas Neu'S Editor .......... .... Hitman llarringlon CofJJ' Editor . ............... lloneydollllackctt Features Lt~vou.t.. .. ..... Mugs Musumeci B&T Lavout ......................... Siuguy Szilvas Editorials Layout... . .. B<~hes Brown .\jJorts Layout ..... Pizza and Pasta Nec:dlcs .\jmrtsCopy EtlitorSweet ·talking Sullivan ND Oa)' Editor. ......................... Ann Bailev SMC OaJ• liditor ....... Omnbcient Oakley Tvpist ...... .......................... Balw-tacc lletsy At/ Design . ............................. Lady Larkin Photographer........ Ccmt>nt ~hoes Cupcro Guest A.ppearance!l. ........... The (Jodfather 
Luca Brazi, fah Fo~moc Gunrunner Gancarz, Sweet Sarah Ryan and hi~ Cigar, Ricco Da' 8os!) to he Dziedzic Youngblood, Eliot Ness and the Zicgtkld ~ollies Girl 
The Observer IUSPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monda·y through Fnday and on horne football Saturdays except dur~ng exarn and vacaliOn per~uds The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Darne and Samt Mary s Col lege SubsmpliOns rnay be purchased for $25 per year t$15 per semester) by wr11mg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Darne lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction r~ghls are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 · 

Michael Monk 
Editor-in-Chief 
the pressing bsues addressed in that report (e.g., the inadequacy of the library, overcrowding in dorms, lack of social space) have yet to be alleviated. In fact, many of the problems brought up in the COUP reporr are reiterated in the PACE report. The acronyms change hut the problems remain the same. 
Which leads us to the same question no doubt asked ten years ago by students and faculty; is the mighty Notre Dame bureaucracy once again merely paying lip service to the serious problems and needs ofits subjects 
m order to pacify them for 
another few years or are they 
serious about alleviating the 
problems? 
adequacies of the university is obviously rooted in the age-old excuse of inspffi­cient funds. All ofthe recom­mendatiens put forth in the PACE report require large financial outlays. But the ad­ministration should also consider that each student is = investing about $40,000 for the Notre Dame experience and right now the university is definitely coming out way ahead in the deal. It's about time that the administration takes a more serious and ag­gressive attitude toward resolving the pressing problems on campus. It revealed this agrressive attitude in both the Campaign for Notre Dame and in raising money for the athletic endowment fund and surpassed the goals in both ventures. There is no reason why the University cannot now locus its 
energies toward raising money to overcome the problems presented in the PACE report. 
There is currently an effort underway to organize committees to "look into" the feasibility of certain recommendations. But who knows how many more committees will be formed in the future. The time for talk is long past. Oil those rusty gears and blow the dust off the PACE report. Leave bureaucracy to the~ pros in Washington and let's solve some of the problems that have plagued Notre Dame for years. You owe it to the students, you owe it to the faculty, and you owe· it to the improvement of Notre Dame. 


????????????????????????????????????
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

~  
~ ~II  Are You Registered for the Draft?  
Are You Concerned About the Possibility of Being Drafted into the Military?  

Do You Think You Might Be A Conscientious Objector? 
Would You Like to Know What Being A Conscientious Objector Entails? 
If These Questions Are of Concern to You, Then You Should Inquire About 

REGISTRATION & DRAFT COUNSELING 
at Campus Ministry Badin all** *239-5242 

The Observer Thursday, February 24, 1983 -page 3 
Study Help Program 
Volunteers tutor school children 
By DAVID F. TRACY 
News Staff 
Thanks to many Notre Dame and 
Ssint Mary's students' donation of a 
few hours of time each week, many 
neighborhood grade school 
children are growing academically, 
socially, and emotionally. 
The Neighborhood Study Help 
Program is the largest volunteer 
group on campus. They began 
seriously recruiting new members 
at the beginning of the semester. 
The NSHP runs 14 tutoring cen­ters two days a week._Jim Baglini, director of the program, described the three different types of centers in the program as neighborhood centers, .in-school centers, and church centers. 
Transportation to the centers is supplied by the NSHP. The captain ofeach center picks up the students on campus and takes them to and from the center. 
Junior Lynn Wittenbrink transported many new volunteers to the Southeast Neighborhood Cen­ter. Although both the tutors and the kids appeared a little uncomfortable at first, after playing a few games to­gether under Wittenbrink's direc­tion, new friendships began to develop. 
The school children asked the tutors their names, their majors, and what they did on Friday nights. 
The Director of the Southeast Center, Gladys McKinney, expressed sincere thanks to the student-tutors for their time and ef­forts. "I've been working with the program since 1968, and the Univer­sity students never stop coming. I think there is a lot of pressure on these grade school children, and the college students' efforts to supple­ment the childrens' teachers and es­
tablish a friendship with the kids 
helps to alleviate some ofthat." 
Mrs. McKinney has a grandson, 
Richard Allen, in the program. 
Richard and his friend Bob Bethany have been attending the tutoring sessions together for a couple of years. They said they would rather be playing football, but they also said they like attending the tutoring ses­sions, noting that the tutors' assis­tance with school work is very helpfuL 
Former Southeast Neighborhood Center captain, john Goelbelbecker, says that there are many more kids and tutors this semester, and the program is much more organized. 
Goelbelbecker, this year's captain of Kennedy, an in-school center, said, "The in-school centers are a lot easier to run because you don't have to worry about disciplining the kids. In the neighborhood centers the tutors have a lot more respon­sibility." 
Wittenbrink said, "When classes aren't going too well and you take an hour to help these kids and spend some time with them, it really puts things in perspective. 

Donald Barrett 
Prof calls Malthus 'clerical idiot' 


By BILL HOGAN 
News Staff 
Professor Donald Barrett last night called population theorist Thomas Malthus a "clerical idiot" who "blamed God for the the misery ofthe poor." 
Barrett spoke on "Population Control and Economic Develop­ment" in a lecture sponsored by the Thomas More Society. 
Malthus' general rule, said Barrett, is that unchecked population in­creases in a geometric ratio while the means of subsistence increases 
in an arithmetic ratio.  
According  to  Barrett,  Malthus  
thought  that  population  growth  
"cannot  be  checked  without  

producing misery or vice. He con­sidered it a natural law set by God that the only way to stop population growth was through famine and ear­ly death of the poor. 
"Malthus opposed contraception because indolence and under­population would result," said Bar­rett. 
He described Neo-Malthusianism as a twentieth century theory which supports Malthus' contention that "the ultimate limits " of population are land and food. 
Unlike Malthus. however, Neo­Malthusians and organizations such as Planned Parenthood and the United States government assert that "the solution of the world popula­tion problem is birth control and abortion," said Barrett. 
Barrett stated the Marxist position on world population and world poverty: "Population gnnvth is not the primary problem. and popula­tion control is not the primary solu­tion." The problem is that there is 
"too much food which too many people are too poor to buy," he said. 
Communists and Socialists believe that "with more people comes more technology," said Bar­rett. "The Socialists are more confi­dent than the Christian West in the future of mankind." 
Barrett, who calls himself a "non­Malthusian," said, "It is a danger to think that world population is the cause of poverty. No causal se­quence has ever been spelled out." 
"The major cause ofpoverty is the structure of society," said Barrett. "There has been no change in the power structure, so the poor are still poor and the powerful are still powerfuL" 


15% Discount 
~ not including · s~ehems 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 

niversity Park Mall and ·Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
A PRE-ST. PAT'S DAY PARTY ~ ONE OF THE TOP IRISH BANDS I 
the Clancy BROth€RS I 

WEDNESDAY ~ MARCH 9,1983 8 pm 1 
MORRIS 



I I AUD~~~~IUM .'
I 

TICKETS $5.50 & $6.50I AT su BOX OFFICE 
I 
AFTERWARDS BRING YOUR TICKET STUBS TO 
Lra:;:~~==:.:~~~==NC(·. 

currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
SPORTS EDITOR 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN TH-E DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation'? Cnder a special ~avy program we're doing just that. It's called the :\uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it. you'll not only get great pay during your junior and senior years. tut after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciences. find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. 
For more information. call the Naval Management Programs Office at: 


1·800·382·3782 
PHOTO EDITOR FEATURES EDITOR ST. MARY'S EXEC EDITOR CONTROLLER ADVERTISING MANAGER CIRCULATION MANAGER ACCTS RECEIVABLE CLERK 
Applications are due at Spm Monday February 28, 1983 
\

For more information ca/1239·5303 
~---~--~-~-~~­
--~--­

------~ ~
--··------------­The Observer Thursday, February 24, 1983 -page 4 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 




Leftist guerrillas build up military capability 

SAN salvador, El Salvador (AP)­Leftist rebels are picking up the pace oftheir guerrilla war against the U.S.­backed government, striking more often and in bigger numbers since Jan. I. 
"The peaks and valleys (in the guerrillas' campaign) are closer to­gether now," says a Western military observer in this Central American country. 
"Before, there would be a major guerrilla uprising, then a lull, then it would be the government's turn," said the observer, who spoke on condition he not be identified. "The guerrillas are orchestrating their of­fensives more often than before." 
But it is uncertain which side is ahead in the 40-month-long civil war that has claimed an estimated 42,000 lives. 
Well-placed sources in the Sal­vadoran capital say the United States is stepping up its pressure on the government to change tactics or risk 
It's time to skip to my Lou! Orsofeel some dan­ternational Folk Dance Par~y held at the Saint losing the war. cers ofall ages as they enjoy themselves at the In-Mary's Club House last night. (Photo hy Hamil "The army is reacting better than 

2 For1 Ingredients 
(Meat Not Included) 
Any 
Size Pizza 
10"-f2"-14"-17" 
COUPON EXPIRES 2/27/83 
Cupero) 

Jolis~ Jrincc Jizzcria 
18061 So. Bend Ave. 

272-8030 
FREE DELIVERY 
LIMfTED ARE.A LENTEN SPECIALS 
• SANDWICHES •PIEROGI• •CZARNINA •BLINTZES • 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
4:00-1:30 A.M. 
Phon€277-3770 
BRinq thiS aO! 

it was a year ago," said the Western military observer. "But I think the guerrilla~ are improving faster than the army." Estimates of the number 
MEDIUM 14in 

of armed guerrillas vary from 4,000 to 7,000.
Cheese Pizza 

Most areas where the guerrillas (Willi 0.Additioullocn4ielt) 
make major drive~ arc not patroled regularly by government forces, a
& Liter of 

factor American advisers in El Sal­
RC Cola 

vador say is a big contributor to 
$567 

guerrilla gains. The Americans arc advocating
COUPON EXPIRES 

more small-unit patrols, especially at
2/27/83 


to support Reagan 
And vvhileyou're at it, 
-The Na­the 


New Right's NCPAC 
WASIIIN<;TON (AI') tional Conservative Political Action 

Committee, the New Right's negative-campaign hit squad, staked 

ski a little. 
Ifyou can tear yourself away 
a new course yesterday with plan~ to 
from the hospitality, the 

spend S'i million portraying Presi­
romance and the crackling 
dent Reagan as a modern-day 
fireplace at the lodge. you'll 
American hero. 
With tllms, advertisements, rallies
find yourself smack-dab in 
and grassroots organizing, NCPAC chief John T. Dolan said the group 
the middle ofthe best skiing 
in the Midwest. In Michigan. 
will make a "shameless appeal to
For snow and ski conditions. 
American patriotism" to recruit one
call our 24-hour toll-free 

million new activists to work for
number. 

Reagan's re-election next year. "It is NCPAC's belief that in Presi­
dent Reagan, America has a modern­day hero," Dolan said at a news conference. "A man who has stood by his belief.~, spoken from the heart, 
t--800--248--5708 



Say~s toMichigan! 
and who almost made the ultimate sacrtke in the service of his country." 
Dolan said the campaign -called 

"American Heroes for Reagan" ­will exert pressure to help Reagan stick to his conservative principles. 
"While as conservatives we are aware ofincreasing frustrations with night, to beat the guerrillas at their own game. 
The guerrillas no longer are the 
rag-tag bunch of students and farm 
boys that took to the hills more than 
three years ago, turning street 
protest movements into a guerrilla 
war. 
They are well-armed with 
weapons captured from the govern· 
ment and with those the Americans 
say continue to llow unabated from 
neighboring Nicaragua, a claim 
Nicaragua consistently has denied. 
"(The guerrillas) can hit a nation­al guard or civil defense post of maybe a dozen men with 200 troops and capture a dozen weapons," said the Western military observer. "It's a cheap way to resupply." 
The rebls also appear to be shift­ing their military tactics, hitting with a rapid-fire string of major assaults. 
Early this year the guerrillas launched a major drive in the nor-
Early this year the guerrillas launched a major drive in the nor­theastern province of Morazan. They took over much of the north­ern part and drew off some 6,000 government troop~. including the elite U.S.-trained battalion~. While that fight raged, they hit hard in the province of Usulutan to the south, and took over an important city of Berlin. At the same time, the guerril­las were overrunning the pic­turesque artisans' center of La Palma in Chalatenango province on the Honduran border, killing or captur­ing the soldiers there and controll­ing the highway to the border. 
Reagan administration, we honestly believe that the best way to help make l're~ident Reagan the greatest president in history is to un­dertake this campaign," he said. 
Saying that Reagan has repeatedly gotten into trouble by straying from his principles, Dolan echoed other New Right activists who blame Reagan's aides for his problems. 
"The people who are stopping President Reagan from ket·ping the promises he made in 1980 are not only making the president look like just another double-dealing politician, they are contributing to his defeat," Dolan said. 
Reagan has not made any public statement on whether he will run for re-election in 1984, although some Reagan loyalists are known to al­ready have started initial work for such an effort. 
The campaign is a new direction for NCPAC, which has made its reputation by using negative cam­paign tactics to help defeat liberal politicians. 

[()ttt?rl f()lli~llt! I riuru~ll ~ ********* ***** f()~l\clt 13clllcls!t **** **** **** **** 
7PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM CONCERT: MARCH 23 7:30in the ACC 
1983 Senior Formal 

..CCJhe uUal~ 8ve~t"
YOUR FATBEBS MUSTACHE~ 
APRIL 9,1983 at the Palmer House in Chicago 
0~ 

UniveRsity PaRk mall 
qJou don't need to be iJ1 QOI!e to go. c:o inLiite ab~iend

Stubcnt b1scount not applicaBlE With th1s spECiaL 

and c:pQit t/1e (!O<:t ~h the J\AaiJl 8\ient oe 19gg
100 Percent Guarantee of Satisfaction 

~~---­
-----~------~ ---------;­
The Observer 
Peri Arnold 
Favorite son tactic pleases prof 
By TIM VERCELLOTTI nold explained. News Editor "Given that description ofthe way the primary works, wh'at are its 
"Politicians are like good race virtues? Why should we be 
track touts. They can judge horse frightened about going back to a 
flesh well." more traditional system. which had 
So says Notre Dame Government the advantage ofbuilding in a few fil­
Professor Peri Arnold, and that is ters?" he asked. 
why he is not worried about a pos-Under a favorite-son arrangement, 
sible brokered Democratic polticians could use their inside 
presidential convention in 1984. knowledge in deciding which can-
Arnold was responding to a recent didate would receive their state announcement by New York state delegate votes at the convention. Democratic party leaders that they ''I'd like to see a whole bunch of would enter either Gov. Mario savvy politicians sit down and talk Cuomo or Sen. Daniel Moynihan in-about candidates X, Yand Z," Arnold to the state presidential primary as a said. favorite son, in an attempt to win "They could sit around and say convention delegates and bargain-things like, 'The public may not ing power at next year's presidential know this, and the television ad­convention. Seasoned politicians vertisements do not show it, but we would then award the delegates to all know that candidate Z is one fool 
the candidate judged tlttest for the .who can't tie his shoe and speak 
presidency. straight at the same time. That's a 
"The change sounds good to me," disadvantage. We think a candidate 
Arnold said. should be smarter than candidate Z, 
The government professor, an ex-so let's. talk about candidates X and pert on the presidency, said he is dis-Y.' " satistled with the results of the 1976 Arnold said ,"it will take and 1980 conventions. He blames moderately disciplined state party those outcomes on the primary sys-organizatons to follow such a tern. strategy." Delegates would have to 
Primaries reflect the wishes of a be willing to vote along the lines of narrow sector of the voting popula-state party leaders. tion, Arnold said. "Primaries tradi-Primaries should he retained, Ar· tionally have a low turnout. and nold said, so that voters can con­those who vote are the most loyal, tinue to have a direct say in the the most partisan. most un-choice ofa party nominee. representative portions of the elec-He envisions a mixed system. Can­torate." didates could win a portion of the 
In addition. tho~e who cast a delegates in the primary, that por­hallot often ha~e their vote on slick tion being less than the number advertisements and tlashy campaign needed for the nomination. The literature, instead of the candidates' remainder ofthe delegates would he positions on important issue~: Ar-uncommitted, or commited to a favorite son. 
Thus the party would not choose its nominee until the convention, avoiding a "coronation convention" such as those for Jimmy Carter in 19"76 and Ronald Reagan in 1980. 
With favorite sons on primary bal­lots, candidates "are in a bind" as they campaign, Arnold pointed out. 
"Candidateswill havt: to ask them­selves 'Will I heat this guy?' If they run and lose to the favorite son, they run the risk of alienating that state's delegation come convention time." 
Arnold thinks such risks will "filter out" those untlt for the White House. 
The favorite-son maneuver is 
reminiscent of the smoke-tilled 
room. tlrst made famous at the 1920 
Republican presidential convention. 
At the time, neither of the front­
runners, former Army Chief of Staff 
Gen. Leonard Wood, or Gov. frank 
0. Lowden of Illinois, could as­semble a large enough coalition of delegates to win the nomination. 
After four indecisive ballots, a group of influential senators met privately and chose the dark horse senator from Ohio, Warren G. Har­ding. to hear the party's standard in the general election. 
"It's inconceivable that we could go back to 1920," Arnold said. "After years of voting freely. delegates will never again he putty in the hands of party officials." 
Instead, state party leaders will 
have to convince delegate~ to go for 
a certain candidate. Arnold said. 
"Any candidate will have to be jus­
tified as being in the best interests of 
all concerned." 
Presidential proposal 

'Project Democracy' unveiled 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan's S6S million program to promote democracy around the world was unveiled to Congress yes­terday, but skeptical members of congress said it was a bad idea that could create enemies, not friends. 
Members of a House subcommit­tee criticized "Project Democracy" as too vague, questioned whether the administration would promote democracy in friendly as well as un­friendly countries, and predicted that most non-democratic govern­ments would view the program as an attempt to subvert them. 
"I don't see how this program can possibly do anything but get us in trouble," said Rep. Peter Kostmayer, D-Pa., in urging the administration to reconsider it. "It seems to be basi­cally a multi-million dollar American propaganda effort." 
"The more we look at thb thing, the more nervous I become over it," said Rep. Joel Pritchard. R-Wash. He said he fears most nations will regard it as "mischiefmaking" aimed at top­pling non-democratic governments. 
"I'm trying to tlnd out who is going to spend the money," said Rep. Dante Fascell, D-Fla., chairman ofthe subcommittee on internation­al operations of the House foreign Affairs Committee. "If that i~ not clearly nailed down in the record. then we are going to have real problems." 
Secretary of State George P. 
Shultz. who unveiled the program 
before the subcommittee. told the 
congressmen. "Don't he nervous 
about democracy. about holding 
that torch up there." 
He said the funds would he spent 
to train young leaders and 
strengthen democratic institutions. 
including labor unions, political 
parties, news media, businesses and 
universities. While the chief focus 
would he in Africa, Asia and Latin 
America, he said programs would be aimed at promoting an "evolution ... "constructive change which can toward democracy" in the Soviet lead to greater political stability, so­Union and Eastern Europe as well. cial justice and economic progress." 
In addition to S6~ million for fis­
cal I9H-t which Congress must ap­"The proponents of democracv 
prove, Shultz said the administration need an international network 
will spend another S20 million al­which will provide them with moral 
ready in hand to get the program support, intellectual stimulation, 
started this year, using funds practical and technical assistance 
diverted from other projects. and protection against tht:ir adver­
The purpose, he said, is to assist saries," he said. 


r----------------,
1 IDit.e 1Knig416 nftft.e <trastl.e 1 
I '"--c-· '-":' Haircut, Shampoo, I I Blow Dry, & Condition I I Reg. $15 I 
54533 Terrace Lane, S.B_ N $ 1 I Across from Martin's on St. Rd.23 QW 8.50 WITH COUPON 
Tues, Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 • I 
I

I Thur,Fri 8:30-8:30 
Haircut only $6 c:~:~NI 272-0312 277-1691 I
HAIRMUSTBEWASHEDDAYOFCUT 
..---------------­
STUDENT NURSE ASSISTANT 
Grant Hospital of Chicago offers nursing students the opportunity to apply nursing theory to direct patient care. The SNA is given patient assignments and can perform all nursing functions with the exception of medication administration and IVs. It is our goal that your employment here will be an enriching and rewarding experience. 
Grant Hospital is a 508-bed healthcare facility located in the Lincoln Park area. We are convenient to all transportation. Summer housing is available at DePaul University. If you are currently enrolled in a nursing program, have completed a year of clinical experience and would like more information, please call Mary Hitpas COLLECT at: 
Nurse Recruitment (312) 883·5502 
Grant Hospital of Chicago 
550 W. Webster Chicago, II 60614 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF 
Thursday, February 24, 1983 -page 5 

india's Prime Ministerindira Gandhi couers herface to avoid the stench ofthe dead during her tour ofNelli Village in Assam, india. The latest tal~}' ofthose killed since February• 2 is 1, 127, including some 600 1•ictims in the massacre at Nelli. (APPhoto) 
r.2~!Kr~~~L 
:-1 
SZECHUAN -t:AIITONESE-AMEII/CAN 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar 
'Ice Chuck her~ Tues. thru Sat. !Ul!J p.m.-1:00 a.m.....tnjo) Life! 
•Dancing• Drinks• Dinoer 
• lfospitalit)·• Reasol}ab\e Price' 
Serving Outstanding Chinese and American Food at Moderate Prices, and your Favorite Cocktails or Polynesian Drinks. 
Now Serving Breakfast 7-11 am Fri., Sat,. & Sun. 
HOURS: 
Mon.-Thur 11:30a.m.-10:00p.m. Fri. & Sat. 11:30 a.m.-11:00 p.m.Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m_ 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH 


1 
I 
~ 

Business & Technology_Th_ursd_ay,_Fehr_uary_z4_,19H_3_Pa_ge6 
Marketing Update 
Digital Equipment Corp. will display its new line of personal microprocessors at an open house today from 10 
a.m. to l:l p.m. in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn. The event is sponsored hy The Computer Shop, authorized Digital dealer for Northern Indiana, to demonstrate the Rainbow 100 and Professional .300 series microcomputers. These microcomputers arc designed for professional use including word processing, spreadsheet analysis, communications, accounting, decision-support systems and programming.-The Observer 

Wall Street Update 
Stock prices rallied in the finat hour of trading and the DowJones industrial average closed near its record high today as Wall Street's concerns over a global oil-price war seemed to abate. The DowJones average of30 industrials, up only l:l. 71 points with 30 minutes oftrading left, closed with a gain of 16.54 points at 1 ,096.94, more than offsetting its 12.42-point loss Tuesday and lifting the measure to just short ofits record close of 1,097.10 on feb. 14. -AP 
Econo1n:~c Update 
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission refused Wednesday to roll back price increases of IS percent to 40 percent for millions of natural gas customers in the Middle West. By a S-0 vote, the commission refused to stop Trunkline LNG Co. and its parent, Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Corp. of Houston, from import· ing high-cost liquified natural gas from Algeria and passing the costs along to retail distributors. The commission's action will allow Pan· handle to raise its prices to distributors in 11 states. effective March 
1. by S99-t million over a year. Only a portion ofthat increase is due to the Algerian imports. A consumer group, the Citizen-Labor Energy Coalition, estimated that the increase would raise the hills of residential consumers, depending on how much gas their dis­tributors get from Panhandle, hy an average of !PO over the next six months. 

Shock treatment 

Therapy ignites controversy 
By ALEX SZILVAS 
H&T Editor 
The electric curn:nt ranges from 70 to 175 volts. Application is brief -between one-tenth ofa second to one and a half seconds. 
Reaching the brain via electrodes placed on the head, a hrid convul­sion is induced. The often dramatic result: near immediate improve­ment from depressive disorders. 
Despite the claims of therapeutic value, electroconvulsive therapy ( ECT ), commonly known as shock treatment, remains a controversial subject. Those opposed to ECT typi­cally point to the dehumanizing aspect of deliberately passing electricity through a patient's body. Together with the lack of an ac­cepted explanation of how the therapeutic effects are achieved and the consistent side effects such as memory loss, shock therapy has been attacked repeatedly. 
The latest a~sault come~ from 
Berkeley, Calif where voters recent­
ly passed an unprecedented rckrcn­
dum making the ust· of shock 
treatment a criminal ollcnse 
punishable hy a $SOO fine or im­
prisonment for up to six months. 
Despite the negative connota· 
tions, ECT is advocated by many 
psychiatrists as the most effective 
treatment for severe depression. 
According to Dr. <ilcnn Harris, a 
practicing psychiatrist at South 
Bend's Madison Community Health 
Center, ECT "is an excellent treat· 
ment for certain kinds of depres­
sion." 
Although Harris docs not practice shock treatment himself, he does recommend it under particular cir­cumstances. "I have not seen any serious complications personally," he said, "but on the other hand, I have seen it save lives -people that were literally starving away." 
llarris noted that although ECT was usually administered as a seric~ of treatments, immediate effects were noticeable after initial applica­
"Shock therapy does invoii'C some risks," he stated, "and therefore the decision to undergo treatment should he an informed one made in consultation with one's physiCian." 
When questioned about the future of shock treatment, Harris expressed optimism that ECT would he applied more commonly to ap­propriate cases as psychiatrists learned more about the treatment. 
llarris sees the fu!ure use of ECT as "statistically more hut numerical­


The outer limits 

Quasars define universal boundary 
Editor's Note: This is the secondof a two-part story dealing with quasars and the outer limits ofthe universe. 
By FRANK GABRIELE 
B& T Reporter 
It is highly unlikely that anything could exist farther from the earth than the starlike objects known as quasars. 
One lir.1itation is the very size of space itself; if the physical constant ofc (the speed of light) is in fact the universal velocity limit, the distance travelled by an object cannot be greater than the speed of light mul­tiplied by the age ofthe universe, the latter being measured from the hypothetical time ofthe Big Bang up to the present (rate X time equals distance, remember?). 
The farthest quasars are at 12 bil­lion light years, or about 92 percent ofthat limiting size. 
Secondly, if anything were farther away it would have to be moving very close to the speed oflight, thus producing a great deal ofenergy and most likely visible in one or more of the identifiable spectra (visual, x­ray, infrared, or radio). 

In effect, the eye "sees" by receiv­ing an image which was illuminated l)v some light source at whatever time it was that that light bounced off of or emanated from that object. So the image of what you are seeing is as old as the time it took for the light to get to your eyes. Thus, quasars were I 2 billion light .years away; it took 12 billion years for their light to reach us, and we are thus looking back in time at some­thing which was there I 2 billion years ago! 

SPRING BREAK IN .... 

FT. LAUDERDALE 

Package Includes .... 

8 Days, 7 Nights First Class Hotel accommedations in the Heart of the Famous Ft. Lauderdale Strip on the ocean. 
Welcome Party with Free Refreshments. Complete program of optional activities. All taxes and service charges. 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL: 


$159perperson 800-325-0439 
HURRY ... SPACE LIMITED!! 

The University of Notre Dame has recently shown its heightened inter­est in astronomy by acquiring Assis­tant Professor Terrence Rettig from Indiana University. Rettig did hb graduate and post-graduate work at 
I.U. in astronomy and astrophysics and has done some work with quasars and quasar theory. He cites the importance of astronomy as not only an intellectual adventure but as a vital source of information about where we came from and where we may he going. 
"If we consider the Big Bang theory, we may wonder whether this 'universal birth' will ever occur again-is the matter of the universe gradually slowing down towards an eventual collapse and rc-ignition ofa Big Bang-type explosion, or b it destined to expand outward into space forever, never to coalesce again'" 
It is this type of probing question which characterizes and detlnes astronomy as one of the most fascinating sciences in our present 'Age of Information', one which uses the scientific method to explore what might otherwise be the idle dreams of men. 

The Observer Thursday, February 24, 1983-page 7 
• • . Work 


U.S. Marines wait on boardamphibious vehiclesyesterday in the central mountains ofKartaba, Lebanon, as anotherAmtrack in the convoy makes its way through the snow. Seven Marine vehicles convoyed up the mountainyesterday to help snowbound villagers. (APPhoto) 
Nothing Else Feels Like NavyFlying. 

The thunderous roar of jet engines rolls across the carrier's flight deck. 
Throttles are at full power, and you're waiting for the signal to launch. 

Now. The catapult fires. G forces press you back into your seat. Suddenly, you're flying low and fast over the open sea. Zero to 150 in 2.5 seconds. 
Nothing else feels like Navy flying. Nothing. And when you become a pilot or flight officer you're at the very heart of it. 
Once you've earned your wings, the Navy puts you in full control of a multi­million-dollar supersophisticated combination of jet aircraft and electronic wizardry. 
And Navy training makes sure you're up to the challenge. Rigorous flight 

training gives you the navigation, aerodynam­ics and other techni­cal know-how you need. 
Leadership and professional schooling prepare you for the immediate decision­

continuedfrompage I 
themselves with the people and the culture through literature and tllms. 
Panel discussions throughout the weeks prior to the actual work project are conducted to consider possible Christian responses to the oppression in the area, according to Baker. Students also keep a journal of reflections throughout the entire program. 
"Most people really seem to enjoy what they're doing -to enjoy working together in that kind of community, meeting people from the other school (Oral Roberts Uni­versity) whose religious experience is so very different," said Baker. 
Students rarely complain about the working conditions, Baker claims. "No matter how many times I've said 'Your work is only indirect though your labors contribute directly to whatever needs to be done with the project,' students sometimes don't hear that while they're here," she said. 
"They (the students) are a little bit surprised from the beginning that they're not out in the hollers working directly with people. But then they quickly readjust their thinking and seem i:o ·enjoy the work." 
Senior Patty Fox, who par­ticipated in the program two years ago, returned the following summer because of her interest in service work Her four-week summer project involved home visits with the Appalachian people, which gave her more of a chance to develop 
friendships with the local people, she said. Fox also taught Bible school during the last week of her summer project. 
Fox said she decided to return that summer because the week-long spring project did not offer enough opportunity for direct service. "During the tlrst week when I went in Spring, I did a lot of manual stuff 
-repairing, cleaning up at a development site. 
"When you only go down for a week, the organization isn't too keen on having you really meet a whole lot ofpeople," Fox adds. "They don't want you to just be leaving after a week and have this thing happen all over again to these people." 
According to Fox, Appalachian 
making authority and 
management respon­
sibility you have as an 
officer in the Navy. 
On the ground, as 
a Navy officer, you 
work with and supervise 
today's most highly skilled aviation professionals. In the air, as part of the naval aviation team, you have about the most exciting job anyone can have. 
It's a uniquely rewarding job with pay to match. You start at $18,300 a year -more than the average corporation pays you just out of college. After four years, with regular Navy promotions and pay increases, your annual salary climbs to $31,100. That's over and above a full package of benefits and privileges. 
Find out how much more a job in naval aviation has to offer. Fill in the 
coupon. No other job gives you the kind of leadership experience or fast responsibility you get as part of the naval aviation team. And nothing else feels like Navy flying. 

Get ResponsibilityFast. 
r-;;V-;0;;0-;;~;;-----W-;11 
I INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 I 0 
Please send me more information about becom­ing a member of the Naval Aviation Team. (0A)
I Name'-~----~=-~~~--~-------­
First !Please Print) Last1 Address.______________Apt. lf•----­
1City•__________State•------Zip______ 
I Age___tCollege/University•-----------­
:j:Year in College tGPA 

1&Major/Mino<'-------------------------­
1 Phone Number I 
(Area Code) Best Time to CalJ 
L 
I 
This is for general recruitment information. You d'o not have to I furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to detennine the kinds of Navy posi­tiona for which you qualify. MG 9/82 J 

NavyOfficers 
Project volunteers "have a very good working relationship with the people." 
Bridget Blais, a junior from 
Seattle, said she took part in the CAP 
two years ago because she "wanted 
to make it a meaningful (spring) 
break." 
Blais worked in the day care cen­
ter for Appalachian children in 
Berea. Kentucky. \': lunteers must 
be careful to work with people with­
out demeaning their pride, accord­
ing to Blais. "Volunteers have to 
fight the attitude 'Well, I'm going to 
go down and save them,"' she said. 
"We're there to learn." 
Although much of the Appalac­
hian region shows few discernable 
changes, some improvements have 
been achieved, according to Baker. 
"Over the past fourteen or flfieen 
years, there hasn't been a whole lot of change. A few consolidated schools have been built, the roads have changed markedly since the '60s and the declaration of the war on poverty. 
"A whole lot of money went to 
building roads, dams, and artificial 
lakes, that kind of stuff. But a lot of 
the money, really when you look at 
it, didn't reach the lowest levels, and 
didn't get into the pocket of the 
poorest people." 
Baker added, "Some of the 
programs that were begun in the 
'60s have since just died. So that 
things continue-on pretty much the 
same as they have in the past." 
The main problems in the moun­
tains are unemployment and the 
lack of opportunities to acquire 
skills, according to Baker. Although 
more people try to leave the moun­
tains, the urban unemployment dilemma prevents them from tlnd­ing jobs in the city. 
"There are less for them in the cities, and th~re wasn't mucn, ~i: best, before," Baker said. 
The majority ofthe coal mines, on which most of the population depended as a source of income, now have been autom~ted or shut down. With the increase of strip mining, more sophisticated tech­niques are employed that only can be operated by skilled workers. 
"Many of the families that I worked with fourteen years ago are in the same situation they were in then. It's just that their kids are older and unemployed whereas before their fathers were unemployed, said Baker. "Now the father is usually gone and the younger children are unemployed without much of a prospect for the future." 
Baker has organized the spring program for the past three years, when it began as a Lewis Hall en­·deavor and eventually grew o in­volve the entire campus population. Baker hopes to extend the CAP by coordinating a project for the fall midterm break. 
"It's a beautiful time of the year. 
The mountains are beautiful. It's just 
a shame that they house and hide 
such human suffering amid such 
natural beauty. It's a real paradox." 
• • • Byrne 
continuedfrompage 1 
closest mayoral race in decades, ack­
nowledged yesterday she had lost 
and urged her followers to back 
Washington. 
"I've been a Democrat all my life,'' 
she said. "He is the choice of the 
people, and, yes, I will support him." 
Mrs. Byrne, 48, finished 32,810 
votes behind Washington in the race 
that drew a record 1.2 million 
voters. Daley, Cook County state's 
attorney and eldest son of the city's 
most famous political family, 
tlnished third. He also pledged to 
back Washington_ 
Washington received 419,266 
votes, or 36.3 percent, to Mrs. 
Byrne's 386,456, or 53.5 percent, 
and Daley's 343,506, or 29.8 per­
cent with ten precincts still un­
reported. 





Editorials 
Thursday, February 24, 1983 -page 8 
Harold Washington: when dreams come true 
The underdog pulled the upset. 
In Tuesday's Chicago Democratic mayoral primary, Harold Washingroh, a black U.S. congressman hardly anyone had heard of before last December, defeated the incum­bent Mayor Jane Byrne and State's Atrorney for Cook County (lll.) Richard M. Daley, the son of the late Chicago Mayor Richard ]. Daley. This happened as a result of many fac-
Tim Neely 
My Turn 
tors, but primarily through Washington's ability to come off as a viable and knowledgeable candidate, with a liberal dose of Byrne's and Daley's (especially Byrne's) blunders. 
The story of Washington i.s one of a man who was talked into a run at the two front­runners by Chicago's black leaders, including Rev. JesseJackson. When he began, he had_no money and liHle respect from his two op­ponents, whose campaign people were ar­guing about whether and how to hold debates -just between the two of them. 

After a few weeks, Washington's seemingly quixotic run for the top job in America's Second City began to gain respect. Seeing the substantial support he had from the black wards, the League of Women Voters con­sidered him viable enough a candidate to be included in the mayoral debates held in January. 
For most non-blacks this was the tlrst op­portunity to hear Washington's point of view, as his campaign lacked the funds to conduct a media blitz. He presented himself in the debates as an eloquent public speaker who seemed ro know what was going on, attacking the mayor when necessary and using often ex­treme candor seldom seen in any politician, much less one running for office. (His state­ments that he would immediately fire Chicago's police commissioner and that he 
felt  tax  increases  were  necessary  are  ex­ 
amples.)  
While  Washington successfully used  the  

free advertising ofthe debates to make himself better known to the electorate at large, Byrne, who had a substantial lead according to some polls, began to make mistakes. She pulled off several ploys during those months between the last general election and Tuesday's city primary which received criticism because they were construed as "politicaL" 
After WGN late-night personality Eddie Schwartz conducted a successful one-night food drive Dec. I<; in response to yet another clone of "Mayor Byrne's Chicagofest" (actually invented by former Mayor Michael Bilandic in 1978) scheduled for New Year's Eve, the city, with its vast resources, felt it could conduct one of its own over a longer period of time and achieve better results. But the campaign got in the way, and while the· drive occurred, it died a quiet death, a victim of underpublicity. 
Another festival, the week-long "Loop Alive!", was originally scheduled for this week, strategically timed with the primary. Byrne's -festival mentality was fodder for the claim that she cared more how outsiders saw the city than about the people who actually lived in it. 
And what about Daley? As a result ofa Byrne media blitz during the Christmas season, just as she officially announced her candidacy, Daley lost a lead estimated at between 20 and 30 percentage points quickly, and as Washing­ton began to become familiar to the public, the magic of the Daley name began to fade. 
Finally, until very near the end, the two "name" candidates tried to feign ignorance of 
Washington's ever-more-viable campaign. Most of Byrne's and Daley!s campaign ads were pointed at each orher, each one aHack­ing the foe at any vulnerable spot. Meanwhile, Washingron focused on issues and ideas, using the forums given him at the public debates and by WGN's Wally Phillips, who invited each Democratic candidate onto his program, the mest listened-ro in the country, for a chance to field the public's unrehearsed ques­tions. Even right before election day, he could afford few media spots, but used them at strategic times rather than flooding the airwaves with them. 
By the time election day came around, Washington was second in most polb. On the morning after, he was first on the one that counted. Barring a truly major upset by the Republican, Harold Washington will become the tlrst black mayor of Chicago, a feat which seemed impossible last December when he was "volunteered" into running. But by his judicious use of limited monetary resources, seemingly unlimited human resources, and the incumbent's perceived blunders, the "dream," as Washington called his campaign in yesterday morning's victory speech, has become a reality. 

SU by another name: A beginning 
Perhaps effective student government at Notre Dame really is possible. At least the cur­rent administration is working to make it so. 
Tom Mowle 
Current Line 
In its last two meetings, the Student Senate finally addressed the largest obstacle to its ef­fectiveness: the perception that student government is a "do-nothing" group, as one officer put it. A large part of this perception is because of the student's lack of awareness of student government's purpose. 
To increase their awareness, the Senate amended its constitution to change "Student 

Union" to "Student Government Activities Board." This is more than simply a name change; it should help change students' misperceptions by addressing their cause. 
The new title for the Board explains exactly 
what it does: it organizes activities sponsored by ~i:lidcf;[ g3>trnmt:rii. 1'his is what it has ai­ways done, hut now studerlts will be aware of it. The new title also emphasizes its role as a member of student government, not a separate entity. 
As part ofstudent government, it is both ac­cessible to people who wish to participate in it and a demonstration of the accomplish­ments of student government. The intluence the Student Senate now will have over the spending of the Activities Board will serve ro counter claims that the Student Senate ac·­complishes nothing tangible. 
In addition, more people will now be in-
P.O. Box Q 
Doctor's review 
DearEditor: 
Yes, we should be concerned with the quality oflife. The author of"The challenge to be pro-choice" in Monday'sObserver is to be commended for this. 
However, I regret that the author so often finds abortion the "pro-family" choice. 
Ours is indeed not a utopian society. But blaming children and seeking to limit the family size of the poor is hardly an ap­propriate step for those ofus struggling to be compassionate Christians. 
For all who view life, or potential life, as a gift ofGod, it is not helpful to say we have a right to make children. We accept or reject God's gift of children, just as we accept of reject our impoverished neighbors 
"deformed" children, pregnant teenagers, and women who have abortions. 
We can never guarantee the physical, mental or emotional health of anyone. But we can care for unwed mothns and for un­wanted children. I find this difficult to do at times, but believe it is what our God would have us do. 

When we are able to do it, we will no lon­ger need abortion clinics or Human Life Amendments. 
Until then, I challenge my pro-life and pro­choice friends to support parents and poten­tial parents as they nurture and give life. And when parents are no longer able to do this, we ought to accept the responsibility to care for their children. 
Finally, all of us who enter this debate would do well to argue our points more cogently and with greater respect for our opponents. 
Steve Worsley, M.D. 
Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They m•;st be typed and bear the address, telephone number and signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­nyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, or letters addressed w per­sons other than the editor are not accept­able. All letters are subject to editing. 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eit'ler institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219)239-5303 
volved in student government and see what it really does. This in turn should convince stu· dents that participation in student govern· ment is a worthwhile endeavor, and that it does make a difference who is elected to the Senate. 
BesiJe~ encouraging the election of increasingly qualified people to the Senate. the merger will encourage more pt·oplc to get involved in student government as members of the Activities Board. At this time, there are only two applicants for Student llnion direc­!or, and some members of the Senate fear that the Union may become a nepotic body. 
Another way more people can be included in student government is by including the various hall commhsioners -social, athletic, academic -on committees within student government. This would increase the com­munication between student government and 
This Is 
the K~ 
thdt jimbanned ..• 
the halls in both directions. Once again, this would help to increase students' awareness of student government and its activities, and it would also help increase student govern­ment's responsiveness to the desires of the student body. 
Stuf1;:-m B~0y President Lloyd Burke is ­driving for these changes so his succes~or Brian Callaghan will have a more receptive student body to preside over. In fact. Burke's work in these past several weeks may leave Callaghan with a tough act to follow. 
But the present name change should not be the end ofthe process. Continued change will be neccessary to involve more people in stu­dent government. When this happens, and when the students' perception of student government is changed, the Senate will be able to have a real effect on the policies of the university. 



?JoVe to, thi5 Y1ospito( ••• 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor .............. David Dziedzic SMC Executive Editor............ Margaret fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn Features Editor ............................ joe Musumeci Photo Editor ................................... Rachel Blount 
this 
mo~y... 
so nice, t(Bi Jim 

What color does
Cjdve the 
hypocfdcy u'tdin
rotude(\ts 0 k~·' 
a :/;a& 
~ 
-.-.:.---__..._..--­
Department Managers 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miorto Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3,1966 



--~------­


The FATE of us 
n recent months, the question ofa ~uclear fre~ze has "A~ long as the world remained acquainted with theIgenerated a great deal ofattentwn m the medm as basic physical laws that underlie the construction of well as in the political realm. This past November, the nuclear weapons -and these laws include the better pro-freeze referendum was approved by x_oters in at part of physics as physics is understood in our century least ten states and in the District ofColumbia. In addi­-mankind would have failed to put many years be­tion to its increasing importance as a national political tween itself and death" (p. 100). 
issue the freeze movement has been focused upon at 
In Schell's view, man's potential to destroy the earthNotr~ Dame in the unilateral freeze referendum which 
is not only undeniable -it well may be inevitable. The was recently defeated, and in the College ofArts and 
author develops this premise in his discussion ofextinc­Letters' sophom t ore Core Course classes. 
tion. After a nuclear holocaust, Schell says, man's ability to revitalize and to regroup is highly questionable, be­cause" ...the past record strongly suggests that the
eafOI reappearance of man is not one of the possibilities" (p.ll4).
Camp 
Additionally, Schell argues that the reason we tend to 
____.;.__________________ deny the threat ofextinction is that we are incapable of • 
comprehending and ofaccepting the possibility ofAs a sophomore, I had the opportunity to read jonat­being wiped from the face ofthe earth in the event ofa
han Schell'sFate oftheEarth last semester. When first I nuclear holocaust. "One reason that standards fail us inopened the book, I thought that Iwould be just fulfilling our attempt to grasp the wrath ofour species is thatanother class reading requirement; when I put the book they are meant to provide a common frame ofreferencedown, however, I discovered that my mind had been against which the individual in a given class of thingsopened as I turned each page. 
can be measured, whereas mankind is a member of noSchell has divided his work into three primary parts, class that we have as yet discovered" ( p. 126 ).
each addressing what the author perceives to be a dif­Because Schell questions man's ability to survive in afereiu aspect of the nuclear question. In Part I, Schell post-holocaust environment, he defines three stipula­provides his reader with background scientific and tions for preventing the creation ofsuch a world:technical information which is prerequisite to a basic respect for all human beings (including the unborn),understanding of th~ nuclear problem. Having dis­respect for the earth and the environment which we in­pensed with the technical jargon, Schell then makes a habit, and" ...respect for God or nature or whateverdramatic appeal to the reader's senses as he bombards one chooses to call the universal dust that made, orhim with graphic descriptions ofa nuclear holocaust in became us" (p. 178).
New York City. Schell supplements his account of the In Part Ill, "The Choice," Schell proposes a vague andpotential for destruction in New York City with relatively undefined solution to the nuclear threat. Bydescriptions of the damage which occurred in the ac­reinventing politics, Schell claim~ Lhat this threat to ourtual atomic bomb detonations in Hiroshima.and 
securitv can be ruinated. While I wholeheartedly en­Nagasaki. 
dorse s"chell's premise that man's moral and spiritualFollowing his description ofthe potential which man development has failed to keep pace with his tech­possesses for his own destruction. Schell discusses the 
!1.0!~g!c:!! :!:.!;"d.iiC<:s. i question the \alidity and the
realiiy (;f extinction in Pa.rt II. According to the author, feasibility of his proposed solution. If his view that we cannot escape the threat ofa holocaust due to the tact 
!!:e Fate ofthe E.ortb, Jonathan Schell, Avon Books, New York, 1982, 231 
that the technological knowledge required to build nuclear weapons constitutes an inherent component of man's scientific knowledge, then how can men possibly eliminate the principle of national sovereignty, which was instrumental in Marting two world wars, and which is the primary source ofso much regional conflict todav? Unfortunatelv, we may very well have to initiate the e'xtinction ofhu~anity ifwe are to be capable ofin­itiating such dramatic changes in the basis ofour politi­cal philosophy. 
Whether or not you agree with the conclusions which Sehell reaches, Fate ofthe Earth is a thought­provoking commentary upon the one problem which presents the ultimate threat to our survival as human beings. 



Look, PGc-mGn, G book fot us... 
F
irst came The Preppie Handbook same format that launched the Basically, the book Defending the the definitive guide to being Preppie model, but that format is, in Galaxy is a fun, somewhat whimsi­"cuter than thou." In its wake many ways, more compatible with cal and socially practical guide to erupted a flurry ofsimilar hand­the subject matter in this case. The the etiquette, techniques and all­books, defining the behavior and section-by-section attack on a around fun involved with the mores ofother cultures throughout variety ofsubjects and types of growing generation of people who the collective spread ofhumanity. people engaged in gaming gives the get their fun from video games. And, All ofthese were cute, fun little impression ofa technical manual, best ofall, it has a definite slant guides, with the one drawback that and this is just what most garners toward the college student and they all followed more or less in the may want to use Defending the gaming on campuses. It is the best exact mold of the Etonistic original. Galaxy for. There are sections on thing to hit the gaming world since 
separate games, the most popular "Pong," and a lot offun into the bar­methods of hitting the big scores gain.
Joe 
and making it into "high-score" 
Defending the Galax,·, Michael Rubin, Triad Books 
mode (the screen where you sign 
Gainesville, t"l., 1982. 224 pages. 
your initials after a particularly hot
musumeci 
game), and a plethora of more light­hearted but still very useful mini­The genre has expanded. 
guides, such as how to dress for the
Reaching out past the confines of 
season when gaming. It is con­
the here and now, the"--Hand­
ceivable that the more serious or
book" craze has extended itself to 
trend-conscious garners may wish to
include the past, future, other 
consult the book before each outing.
worlds, other galaxies -even the 
Some ofthe most interesting sec­
insides ofa few computer-like 
tions of video/arcade info and what­
machines. The genre has undertaken 
not are: "How to tell them apart
to "boldly go where no cheap paper­
(they really don't all look alike);" a
back has gone before." 
guide to the design, graphics and
The book is Defending the 
functions ofsome of the various
Gala.'!:}', and ifyou have el'erplayed 
games; "The Phallusy of the Joystick
a vide"a game, you willfind it 
(Sexuality of video games);" and my
enjoyable and amusing. Ifyou are 
favorite feature, the "Case Study."
one ofthe elite who consider them­
The case study describes, briefly, the
selves serious "Garners," Defending 
personal experiences of the average
the Galaxv may well replace the Joe with some aspect of videofamily Bible on your bookshelf. 
gaming.

The book is (sigh ) based on the 


Wbo Censored Roger Rabbit?, Gary Wolf, Ballantine Books, New York, 1981, 218 pages. 


Terrible ''Toons'' 
R 
eading Who Censored Roger Rabbit? is like having a frontal 
lnhnt1,,·y_,, ThP t'i ..._,~ p..-........n ~ .. -.,.,;i~: ....... rnnsing T~.u .~,;.f"cnnrl i~ ~ii~~~-y· 
_ ':.._1 ....,.._...._,l.VII.I. ... J.ll'!.... !.!!~o. a~t... J;:» 111&1\..ll~ 41UU~ -' l-11'-... '-"-._..., ___ .-.~I 
boring. However. it keeps promising more. As a reader, you keep waiting to get to the good part. There is no good part. By the time vou realize this, it's too late, you're trapped in a literary quagmire-. · On the cover, Roger Rabbit looks promising. The prrmise is interesting enough. The author, Gary Wolf. has taken the hard-boiled detective novel and adapted it to the world ofcartoons. The cemral character of the book is a Philip Maflow type ofcharacter, who is a two-hit private eye. He drinks heavily, and drools after "babes." 
While the detective is human, most of the other characters are 
Ryan VerBerkmoes 
not. In the world ofRogerRabbit, cartoon characters are real. They 
are not drawn, they sort of live, but then again they don't. Sound 
confusing, it is. The book's namesake is a six-foot tall, carrot-eating 
rabbit. As a minor character in a slumping comic strip, Roger Rabbit 
has a photographer instead ofan artist. 
In this book, cartoon characters, or "toons" as the humans call 
them are second class citizens. Thus our detective, Eddie Valiant, is 
not pleased to see this living lapin in his office. However, Eddie 
needs booze money, so he accepts a case from Roger, whose toon 
wife has left him. This goes on for a few chapters, then Roger gets 
plugged. By this time the reader may be glad to see the insipid Roger 
dead, but no such luck, it seems toons can come back to life for a few 
days at will. So Roger helps Eddie find his killer. This goes on and on 
and on and ... 
The idea ofcreating a world where folks like Bugs Bunny and Humphrey Bogart co-exist seems interesting, it probably is, but not here. Aworld as bizarre as this probably should be presented just for the reader to accept. Instead, Wolftries to explain how it works. This consumes numerous pages and is quite implausible. The toons do not have voices, they speak in word baloons which sort offloat about. 
Wolf does a pretty good job at creating interesting sounding 
characters, but they never pan out. Each has the whit of"Nancy," and 
the charm of"Henry." There is no definable mood. Whereas 
Raymond Chandler created a sleezy scene for Marlow, and Fritz 
Lange placed Bugs Bunny in a land ofLunacy, Wolfs characters exist 
in murk. The rich images that are key to the success ofany book are 
missing. 
It reallv is a shame because the basic idea is a good one. But it 
needs a precision hand to write it. Wolfdoesn't succeed in painting 
the campy atmosphere for which RogerRabbit cries out. After the 
first few pages, it becomes apparent that the book is one joke effort. 
After you have read the same joke for the hundredth time it wears 
thin. Wolfdoesn't run with it, he sits with it. 
Worst ofall are the botched scenes. When Roger Rabbit is almost killed by a cream pie, the joke just lays-flat as a pancake. When Eddie meets Dick Tracy, just as the reader gets ready for some interesting dialogue; the scene switches. Missed oppurtunities abound. 
The promotional literature calls Who Censored RogerRabbit? "a · soon to be cult classic." It is always best to be wary ofsomething that proclaims its success before proving it. Overall, once you escape from this mess, you'll be left disappointed. Wolfcould have done so much inore. After all, imagine a world where you really could shoot cartoon characters -like Garfield. 
Thursday, February 24, 1983 -page 10




ISports Brieh 
::~B~\:.'~~;,b:t:'(;J~b:s:e:r~z,~e~r~a:n:d;;~;b:e:.4:s:·s:_(:J<:./~·a:/:e:tl~P;r:c:'s:·s~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club will be practicing 
behind Jake Kline field, weather permitting. The practices will run from :3::30 to S:30 Monday through Friday. New members are welcome. -The Observer 
Prospective cheerleaders take note. There will be an organizational meeti t ng for those interested in trying out for the 1983-84 squad on Tuesday, March I, at 7:00p.m. at Rathskeilar. 
-The Observer 

Ski Team members who have not picked up their jackets, sweatshirts or ski bags should contact Philly Panny at 277­3799 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do·K.arate Club will meet 
tonight at 7:00 for practice. The practice will be held in the fencing room. -The Observer 
INTERHALL RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS 
For those racquetball players who have not played thelf second round match yet, the deadline IS Wed· nesday, March 2 Failure to play and·or report scores w1ll result mel1mmat1on from the tournament. 
Second Round 
Men's Doubles 

Hatf1eld·O'Bnen (1054) v. Moser-Krebs (1039) 
P1nhe~ro·K1ng (6749) v. Taylor· Dahl (8941) 

Jahoda·Mezzapesa ( 1789) v Heglin·O'Donnell 
(8644) 
MuCCIO·Hennessey ( 1152) v Murray-E1senbe1s 
(1178) 
Kl1nk·lrasqu1ne (8633) v Vanflandern·McNulty 
(8685) 
Gro1ean· Welsh ( 1222) v bye 

Shank·P1neda (288·3051) v Mlchaux·Gayhardt 
(4388) 
S1rnam1·Hannau (1153) v. A1edi·Adams (1682) 
McDermott-Crouch (2153) v Powers·S1mpson 
(277-1773) 
Walsh-Shockner (8773) v Sch1eri·M1nondo (3667) 
Fahng·Durbln (277-6149) v Meakln·Desaulmere 
(6864) 
C1ndnc·Marten (7829) v Vanderbeck·Fiithe (277· 
2163) 
Danco·Mooney (1649) v Schne1der·M1IIa (8728) 
Tamberg·MacDonald (239· 7735) v Hogan· Raster (1780) Kvochak·Delaus (1593) v Brown·E1sengruber (3261) Bert1no-Kruse (3770) v O'Toole·Jones (8324) 
Inter hall information 
INTERHALL TRACK MEET RESULTS February 16,1983 
Individual Results 
MEN'S LONG JUMP -t Pat Schm1edeler. 
Alumni. 18·5 1/4 2 Mark Seals. F1sher. 18·4 5/8 3 
M1ke Doyan, Oft-Campus. 16·5 3/4 
WOMEN'S LONG JUMP-1 Stella Ossello. Far· 
ley. 14·71/8 2 Karen McCloskey, Farley, 10·9 
HIGH JUMP-1 M1ke Donovan. Flanner, 6·3 2 
Pete Scherer. Alumn1, 5·6 3 Rob Detzner. Zahm. 5· 
6 WOMEN'S 60-YARD LOW HURDLES 
Rosemary Buckle, Women s Track Team. 9 6 
MEN'S 60-YARD LOW HURDLES -1 Mark 
Seals. F1sher. 8 0 2 Kary Schulte. Dillon, 8.01 3. 
James Montgomery. Flanner. 8 59 
MEN'S FOUR-LAP RELAY -1 Carroll (Dan 
Walsh. Steve Roth. Joe Costello. Tom Preston). 
1 18.6 2 Alumn1 (Joe McCarthy, Fred Cense, B1ll Grotean. John Welsh). 1 24.34 
WOMEN'S FOUR-LAP RELAY -1 Farley 
(Sharon Koehler, Stella Ossello, Jenn1e W1rthman. 
Maureen L1nk). 1 39 74 
MEN's 880-YARD RUN -1 Bnan Conn1ff. St 
Joseph, 2·06 2 Bob Warnement, Alumn1, 2 08 3 
Chns Vargas. Stanford, 2 10 
WOMEN'S 880 -YARD RUN -1 Rose Mane Luk1ng. Women s Track Team, 2 26. 2. Rosemary Buckle, Women s Track Team. 2 30. 3. Susan Wanchon. Women·s Track Team. 2 36 
60-YARD DASH-1 Mark Seals, F1sher, 6 54. 2 Steve Roth, Carroll, 6.59 3 Bob Whearty. Flanner. 677 
WOMEN'S 60-YARD DASH-1 Stella Ossello. 8 09 2 Anne Brebb1a. Women s Track Team. 8 13.3 Sharon Koehler. Farley. 8.19 . 
EIGHT-LAP RELAY -1 Carroll (Joe Costello. Dan Walsh, Steve Roth, J1m Sullivan), 2 53 2 Alumm (Joe McCarthy, Fred Cense. B1ll Grotean. Jack Schne1der). 3 04 3 Holy Cross. 3 37 
MEN'S 440-YARD DASH-1 Stoney Mitchell. Alumni. 55.48 2 Kary Schulte, D1llon, 57.18 3. Tom Lauth, Alumni, 58.77 
WOMEN'S 440-YARD DASH -1 Anne Brebb1a, 
Women·s Track Team. 1 10 
MEN'S MILE RUN -1 Bnan Conn11f, St Joseph, 
4 51.5. 2. T1m o·connor. Off-Campus. 4 54 3. Bobby Bl1gh, 4 59 
WOMEN'S MILE RUN -1 Kose Mane Lukmg, Women s Track Team. 5.50 5 
TEAM RESULTS 
Ftrst place ts awarded five pomts, second placets awarded three potnts, and thtrd place ts awarded one potnt 
MEN Alumn1, 23 po1nts Carroll, 13 po1nts F1sher. 13 pomts Flanner. 8 pomts D1llon, 6 po1nts 
WOMEN Women·s Track Club, 27 po1nts Farley. 19 po1nts 
The Observer w1ll accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However, class1fieds to appear in the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1fieds must be prepa1d. 
e1ther 1n person or through the ma1l.




Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOST MENS N.D RING. 84 BLUE STONE. FULL NAME ON INSIDE LOST ON TOWER QUAD CALLJOHN 8212  Surfs up 1n So. California. Dr~vmg io Cahfornta for spnng break? I could use a lift G1ve M1ke a call at x 1688 Thanks  for sale 1977 BMW 320i,LUXUS PACKAGE.FLOAIDA CAR,GAEAT SHAPE.$6.800 Call283· t 166  HELP! HELPI HELPII need a nde to Mil· waukee thts weekend If you·re gomg my way, please g1ve Julie a call at 3882  M1ke, Matt, and Rally Just want to thank our dinner hosts for such a great meal! And the entertainment (Catching egg·  
rolls through the fan) was amaZing! Sorry  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 Ugly Duckffng Rent-A-Car, Friday ~!'! !!~ ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~-~5 ;::.::;,:d@! 150 free miles. Sales tax & insura~ extra. Phone Rob for reservations 259­8459.  FOUND Cas1o sc,ent1f1c calculator. fx·58, 1n engmeenng audttonum Call Kevm at 3201. late mght H1 Jayne. h1 Matt. thiS IS tree! license and detex '" 11 On Fnday between Ntewland and the Matn Ctrcle If found, please call Jamce at 1336  Need nde to V~rg1n1a for spnng break Will share usual Please call Ang1e at 1284 A1ders needed to N Y C for break Call Karl x31 13 RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK .. ·CAN LEAVE ANYTIME WILL SHARE USUAL CALL  STEREO EQUIPMENT Hassle free hl·h delivered qu1ckly nght t<. :our door Professional consultatton ar.u tnstallatton! Avatlable at spectal dtscount pnces for students at ND/SMC SAVE $$$-call J B ~! ...~~ ..,.,Q~ ..., .::o,roc:.uu 76 Pinto 4speed, Ex Cond . Runs  HELP' NEED AIDE TO WEST PALM FOR BREAK! CALL JAY at 1404 PLEASE' Marathon 331 Marathon 331 Maratnon ~~i  tf we rutned any of your "fine" You're deflmtely one up on us. Thanks aga1n. Amy. Jul1e. Ellen and Momca P S Yes I dtd worry through the whole movte that she would d1e Thanks guys!! John Horky.•• !'!!:! lf!~!~le mf!l}ns ofSu!Jport. The Stanford Love Van.•.  
TYPING Jack1e Boggs 684·8793 CAREERS IN PUBLISHING The D~rector of the Radcliffe Publish~ng Course. a s1x week tntenstve graduate program m book and magaz1ne pubhsh1ng at Harvard Um~ verstty. w1ll be on campus Frtday, February 25. A general meeting w111 be held at 1 :30 p.m. to discuss career oppor· tunrttes tn pubhshtng. For further tnforma­tton on the group meetmg check wtlh the Placement Ofhce For 1nd1v1dual appo1nt· ments call239·5200  LOST Burgundy Infold walfel on Salur­day the 19th dunng Jumor Parents Weekend Please return as contents are expenstve to re-place-espectally Conn dnvers licences Please call 3498­you got my name already FOUND AN ADORABLE POODLE·MIX DOG SHE APPEARED IN TUESDAYS OBSERVER IF YOU LOST HER OR CAN GIVE HER A PERMANENT HOME. SHE'S CUAAENTLY RESIDING IN WALSH CALL x8077 Found Basketball at Stepan Fnday. 2/18 Calf Jerry 3321 to cla1m  CHRIS AT 3510 OR 8573 ANYTIME--­BEAUTIFUL RUSSIAN NEEDS A AIDE TOTAMPA AREA FOR SPRING BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL CALL JANNA AT 6746 PLEASE HELP!!! N NEW JERSEY RIDE NEEDED TO NORTH/CENTRAL NJ FOR SPRING BREAK PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906 Need two ndes to Long Island area for Spnng Break Can leave anyhme Calf Ann at SMC 4287 or Maureen at SMC 4273 Need a nde for 2 to the Ch1cago Suburb of  GREAT. FM·cassette, 30mpg. $1500Call Paul1732 Computer tor sale Apple II w/momtor, 2 dtsk dnves. software. games and extras $2,000 Call Bob at 277·1917 FOR SALE 73 Ponhac Ventura. one owner, low mtleage, full power. $795 or best offer Call239·6539 or 277·3333 [TICKETS  need RIDE to MILWAUKEE, fn , 2/25 call She11a 2911 FENWICK produces SOCIAL RETARDS ATTN ALL NEW ENGLANDERS!!! Con· nectlcut Club ts agatn offenng an excttmg and fun-ftlled bus nde back for spnng break. Cost IS $90 and stops are 1n Falf· f1eld and Hartford Bnng money to s1gn ups on Man . Feb 28. ftrst floor La Forune, 6· 7pm FIRST COME. FIRST SERVE. Need A1de To Connecticut For Spnng Break. Will Share Usual. Please Call Dan al x6824.  don·t m1ss 1t! Saturday n1ght. PITTSBURGH CLUB...SPAING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS .Lafortune Little Theater, Sun. Feb. 27 1983 at 7pm. See ad for detailS Also. short rneetlng for anyone tnterested 1n runmng for Club Of­fleer follow1ng s1gn-ups PITTSBURGH CLUB. SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS.. Lafortune Little Theater, Sun Feb 27 at 7pm Today IS Anne Throckmorton s birthday! Happy B1rthday. Anne! Happy Days' Happy Year Ahead'  
TYPING WANTED 277·8534 6·10 PM M· F. ALL DAY WKNDS  LOST: BLUE AND GOLD (original colors, eh?) NO WRESTLING JACKET.  Glenvtew tor Feb 25-27 Wtll share ex­penses Call Kathleen 4365 (SMC)  L YONITES Vote · ANNIE and FITZ on Feb 28, 1983  Com1ng Soon!!! The FIFTH EDITION of the ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS  
Grand Canyon Summer Jobs Employers RecrUiting Now Complete Detalls·$2 00 Wnte Canyon, Box 30444 Tucson, AZ 85751 ATTN ALL NEW ENGLANDERS!!! Con­necttcut Club IS agam offenng an exctttng and fun-f1lled bus nde back for spnng break Cost IS $90 and stops are 1n Falf· f1eld and Hartford Bnng money to s1gn ups on Mon., Feb 28, hrst floor La Fortune. 6-?pm FIRST COME. FIRST SERVE STUDENTS!!! Come 1n Today for your Free 1983 Notre Dame Calendar We  My name "BROWN" is on tha front. If found, please return to Man Brown, x8607. REWARDIII LOST A KEY ON AN ITALY KEY CHAIN 2/22 DARLENE x6980 338 BADIN TO THE PERSON THAT TOOK MY BLUE DOWN VEST FROM 121 OSHAG ON TUES.,FEB.23 PLEASE RETURN IT AND/OR KEYS THAT ARE IN THE POCKET(THESE ARE MY ROOM,HOUSE.WORK.MAIL. AND HOUSE KEYS) PLEASE RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND OR CALL TED AT 1101 I'M DESPERATE!!!  TO CHICAGO FROM SOUTH BEND -ONE WAY, SIS. ROUND TRIP, $28. PHONE 234-6778. HELP A1de needed to U of ILLINOIS Feb 25 Call MARY 8148 WANTED! ST PAT DAY IN SOUTHIE NEED AIDE TO BOSTON FOR BREAK PAULA 1266 HELP!! Need AIDE/RIDERS to PITTS March 4·6. Call J,m ..8921 '!NORTH CAROLINA!! Need AIDE for Spnng Break' Can & Will leave any S day!  Need DePaul tickets w111 pay $$$ call Mark 8919 NEED 3 DAYTON TICKETS ..JULIE 3725 Need 4 Dayton T1ckets Please call1700 PERSONALS JUGGLER The Juggler 1s now accepting fiCtion. poetry, essays photography,  JUST KEEP REPEATING TO YOUR· SELF ITS ONLY A PARTY ITS ONLY THE JAZ:Z. SINGER Fn . Feb 25 SMC Carroll Hall?, 9, 11 $1 AIDE NEEDED TO DALLAS FOR SPRING BREAK!! CALL DREW 1166 B P's THArS ENTERTAINMEtH? Come to tha B. P. Variety Show Thursday at the Nazz at 9:00 HUMPY THE CAT will be 1n the Rosemont Honzon on Saturday after­noon  TONY.PLEASE don·t go. plese stay. please don tt go STAY ·MeliSSa SUZY GALLO, Affer last n1ght the g1g 1S up RED RUM can come at any t1me-even 1n a k1mono Sk1ppy Mary Me. Two days IS too long! Wtthdrawls! We must not subject our­selves to such absences tn the future YourYaweh BOSTON CLUB HAPPY HOUR POSTPONED FROM FRIDAY TO NEXT FRIDAY. MAR 4 BOSTON BUS FOR SPRING BREAK  
have a wtde selection at new and used books tor your classroom and enjoyment read~ng. Stop 1n, you'll like what you buy 937 South Bend Ave. QUANTA s start  FOUND Two d1fferent sets of keys One set found on South Quad near Cush1ng two weeks ago. On Amencan Express Key nng Othar set found about two weeks ago near Badm Halt. On metal nng. possibly Hall Staff keys. If yours. call and 1dent1fy them Calf M1ke at x1404  Call J1m at 8921 Need RIDE to CHICAGO Fnday Please call Tom at 3841 Need nde to DALLAS for break Can leave Wed afternoon. 3/9 Call STOP Shelly x8026  graphiCS. etc for the Spnng 1983 1ssue SubmiSSions should be turned 1n at the Engl1sh Off1ce .309 0 Shag (Juggler mall­box). NED IV NED IV NED IV NED IV  Jack, Kenny. and John · We know you can I Watt For our arnval 1n Flonda · the fun we'll Create As you take off to work · and us to the Sand We'll return to the condo. w1th a SIX·pack  SIGNUPSMONDAY. FEB 28. 7pm LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE $50 DEPOSIT REQUIRED. LEAVES THE 11th. ??Call Mlke277-3276or John 1532 BOSTON BUS StGNUPS Monday 7. l afortunt:JI10 roundtrip incl. refresh  
LOST/FOUND I IL--_FO_R_R_EN_T___..j  PRINCETON I need a nde to the Pnn­ceton, NJ area for spnng break If you can help call Ke1th at 8857'-68',  Boston Need nde to Boston on Fn or Sal March 25 or 26. (That's the weekend affer spnng  m Hand We'll tell you our stones · of the fun had that Day Then head off to the Stnp · as you hit the  BOSTON CLUB SPONSORS CEL TICS· BULLS TRIP on MARCH 26 Cost $16-18 1ncludes t1x, transpo(w1th beer). 4 free hours 1n Ch1cago. ALL INVITED SIGN UP  
break.) Willing to share cost et al Call Jeb  Hay  SUNDAY 7pm 10 Lafortune.  
LOST ND CLASS RING( 83), NAME INSIDE. BLUE STOME, LOST POSSIB­LY AT SMC(MOAEAU-O'LAUGHLIN HALL), LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND OF 1128-1/30, BIG REWARD $$$ OF· FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO PLEASE CALL 283-3346  House 4 bedroom. near ND. $290 permo Fall or summer No ut11it1es Phone (319) 322-8735 Patty APTS NEAR NO FOR RENT UTILS PO LESS GAS PH 2720261  BOSTON or MAINE Do you have space 1n your car? I need a nde there for spnng break Calf 8857 Need nde to CHICAGO Feb 25 call Kathy 6883  at 8641 Thanks RldenHded. Are you com1ng back from or through At· lanta after spnng break? Are you com 1ng back early say. on Fnday, March 18? ,  You say What a dear . We cant ask for More As you purchase the wood -to board up the Door But were not that mean -We won t leave you Beh1nd Bestdes the Islander scene -tS one only  Out est-ce qut m a envoye les belles fleurs? N/A someone who does art on Chestnut and Hancock says you like m1ik tn your coffee McCahtah  
To the person who removed my blue Or­game Chemistry notebook from the South D1n1ng HaU on Fnday, Feb. 11. between 1 & 1:30pm, I would apprec1ate its 1m· mediate return I'll be glad to let you bor· row rt some t1me when I don't need it! My name and number is on 1t so call me!  4 bdrm furntshed house. near campus On Notre Dame Ave. Good cond1fl0n 9 mo. lease $335 per mo Call 684·0933 (local calf) FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277· 3604  Need AIDE to CLEVELAND thiS weekend Call Jack 1588 Need AIDER to FLORIDA · M1am1 & Ft Lauderdale · lor Spnng Break Call Alta at 6797 NEED RIDERS TO AND FROM PITTS­BURGH THIS WEEKEND. CALL KEVIN  I need a nde, then. Got to take GMATs Call Jeb at 8641 Thanks Sa1nt Marys students YOU can buy Ot; server classtfleds on the Satnt Mary·s campus Come to the SM(\ Observer 1 offtce 1n the oH1c& of Aegtna ~uth, Mon­daythroughFnday,12.30to3pm  Jack & Kenny could F1nd So as we pack our bags . We look to you for Hope To ftnd us the places -where tts best to scope However, tf you fatl-We really don·t Care Its those beautiful eyes and curly half That we look for and des~re the Most Out of those guys from the ·Gutter . who  Happy B1rthday Stephen Boull!t' HEY TCH. GOOD TO SEE THOSE HORNS ARE TRIMMED. NEXT TIME KEEP IT DOWN THE VILLA P S THAT SHOULD KEEP YOU FOR A MONTH I L BumpkinS wears rumple shorts  
LOST PAIR OF SILVER FRAMED GLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE. THE CASE WAS FALLING APART AND IS HELD TOGETHER BY A PIECE OF SILVER DUCT TAPE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL PHIL AT 8295. DESPERAEL Y NEEDED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  FURNISHED TWO ROOMS. PRIVATE ENTRANCE. MALE PREF ALL UTILITIES PAID. 277-3604 FOR HENT NOW · 2 or 3 Bedroom. Full Bath, Yard, Partly furnished. $185 $70 Utllihes DepoSit $200 Off Portage 289· 1687.  OR TOM AT 277-1705 Need nde to NJ or NYC Can leave 3/10 Karen 284·5338 after 1 1 p.m FOR SALE  GREAT BOOKS..GREAT MINDS.. MEET FACULTY AND STUDENTS OF THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES MONDAY FEB 28. 6 30 PM, GRACE PIT 1 BRUNO;S ..:.. ORIGNAL FAMILl PIZZA ,  play our Host! FOR A NECTAR YEAR: WRITE IN CAUFORNIAN ON MARCH 1 FOR JR. CCLASS OFFICERS. VOTE NO TO BORING, UNI­MAGINATIVE CAMPAIGNS: WRITE IN  What goes bump 1n the Me? L Bumpk1ns L B · You are so far above the norm that to devtate •s •mposstble ­Goon Lou Best of luck 1n the show thur ntte! From AH and 1st floor Keenan  
Lost:  A SECOND LOCATION ·NOfiTH ON 31,  CALIFORNIAN FOR CLASS OF '85 OF­ Bnan and Doug  
Gym's Jim shorts... er... uh... Jim's Gym shorts. Gray shorts w/ black and whrte stripes down the Side. Lost between  WANTED  USED. BOUGHT.  OUT-OF·PRINT BOOKS SOLD. SEARCHED  ONE MILE FROM N D FREE)DELIVERY TO CAMPUS . MON·THUAS AT 700 PM AND 10 00 P M ·OADEH BEFORE  FICERS.  HELP  OTR much? MaryS  
Stepan and Stanford. (Honest.) Please  ERASMUS BOOKS  1027 E.  WAYNE  6 30 FOR THE  7 00 DELIVERY  AND  Need nde to Dayton area thiS weekend for  Agagt? N1ce s1ck expo! Dream much ?  
call Gym..  er... uh ... JIM at 8641. Thank  NEED RIDE TO CHGO AREA THIS FRI  ONE  BLOCK  SOUTH  OF  EDDY·  BEFORE  9 30  FOR  THE  10 00  a JOB INTERVIEW Call Amy 284-5017  M1ght th1S be ABUSIVE?  
you.  FOR DEPAUL GAME. 1684 or 1266/7.  JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  DELIVERY CALL NOW 277-!'1519  PLEASE  Love. L.C  

'·' 
The Observer Thursday, February 24, 1983 -page 11 
contiiiUedji"OIII page 16 
report to the Generals' training 
eamp in Orlando, !'Ia.. until Saturday 
at the earliest. The LSFI.'s initial 
""a"on begins :\larch 6. 
"Herschel has done more for professional football players than all the union's striking and debating that's ever taken place," said Man­ton. "His contract will be the guideline for the future." 
Manton said he checked into the tinancial status of Generals owner J Walter Duncan and found he could fulfill the contract even if the USFL should fold. 
In a prepared statement from the 
Univrrsity of Georgia officials said 
that Walker had been declared in­
eligible because he had signed with 
the Generab. Walker denied the 
reports. 
But :\!anton contirmed yesterday 
that Walker had signed a document 
last week when he met with Duncan 
and Generals :\lanager]im Valek in 
Athens. Manton said Walker had "an 
oral promise" that he could change 
his mind ifhe so desired, and Walker exercised that option two hours later. 
Generals vice president of busi­ness affairs Charles Theokas said Walker's arrival in the USFL would "absolutely have a huge, huge im­pact on the credibility of the franchise," much as the signing of Joe Namath out of Alabama gave in­stant credibility to the fledgling 
American Footballl.eag t ue in 196';. 
"There's been an immediate im­
pact on ticket sales," Theokas said 
from the team's headquarters at 
Hackensack, N.J. "The phones have 
been ringing already." 
USFL commissioner Chet Sim­
mons said Manton tirst approached 
:,,;BASKETBALL 

EAST Delaware 67. Lehigh 53 Georgetown 86, Prov1dence 62 Manst 88. Vermont 56 St. Franc1s. NY 93. S1ena 76 W V~rg1n1a 99. George Wash1ngton 76 
SOUTH James Madison 76. E CarOlina 56 Middle Tennessee St 76. Georg1a St 64 Georg1a Tech 70. Maryland 60 S. Flonda 69. Ala ·B1rm1ngham 64 Stetson 99 St Leo 76 Tulane 56. SE Lou1S1ana 52 Va Commonwealth 65. Jacksonville 58 V1rg1nla 85, Clemson 83. OT Virg1n1a Tech 72, VMI54 W1lham & Mary 49. Richmond 47 
MIDWEST Butler 69. ValparaiSO 60 Dayton 65. Marquette 63 E M1ch1gan 55. M1am1 53 Kansas 74. Iowa St 60 
LaSalle 79, Lalayene 61 Oklahoma St 76. Kansas St 58 Purdue 56. IllinOIS 54 
\ 


\ 
I 
I. 

• • . Money 
him about Walker going pro in early  Walker into a supplementary draft  
January. Walker wanted to play in  with the :"~Fl. but added, "I don't  
the New York area. Simmons saiJ.  think the Baltimore Colb (who have  
At a news conference in Orlanuo,  the NFL's first draft pick) would  
he promised that Walke_r's signing  have paid halfof Herschel's contract  
was not a precursor to a wholesale  nor any other team in the NFL"  
raid on collegians, calling it a  Walker, who drew national atten­ 
"special circumstance."  tion when he signed with Georgia af  
Simmons said the league and the  ter an outstanding high school  
Generals thought Walker was in- career in the tiny middle Georgia  
eligible before the original signing  town of Wrightsville, gained 5,2';9  
since he had hired an agent who  yards in his three seasons at Georgia,  
came to the USFL tea"m for the  only 823 less than Tony Dorsett's  
purpose of negotiating a contract.  four-year NCAA record. He ran for  
As Walker's story unraveled yes­ 1,':'';2 yards and scored 1: touch­ 
terday, it became apparent that New  downs in winning the Heisman last  
Jersey had not heen Walker's only  season.  
option. An NFL spokesman said that  Dooley, the Georgia athletic  
Manton approachep the NFL over- director in addition to serving as  
night "and asked if we were in- football coach, said, "He (Walker)  
terested in signing Herschel and  made a mistake and he admits that.  
placing him in a franchise city of his  He's had an early education in the  
choice."  hard reaity of the business profes- 
Manton, however, said there was  sion. Now it's time for him to lm>k  

no doubt he could have gotten ahead." 

--gQowetrg fptr oQQ occagio"g~~ 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232-3354 
NAZZ 
UPCOMING SHOWS: 
Thurs. Feb. 24 .................... BREEN-PHILLIPS 9 ·11 Variety Show! Fri. Feb. 25 ..................... Chapel Choir Night 9·? Sat. Feb. 26 .......... An evening of Magic & Comedy 9.? featuring: Gary O'Brien 
Doug Maihufer Mike Weber 

Alumni, Badin, BP, St Ed's, Regina, Sorin & Grace in cooperation with Howard Hall present ... 
A Chance to Dance 
in Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom 
Friday Feb. 25 9:30 · 1:30 $1 Admission Door Prizes &Refreshments Music by Charlie Penna, ND SMC ID REQUIRED 
............................... 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4 ·7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
.y 
.J

~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 

LaFortune Little Theatre Sunday Feb. 27, 1983 at 7pm 
Buses will leave ND/CCE & SMC/Holy Cross:. Friday March 11,1983 at 4pm Buses will return from Pittsburgh Greyhound Terminal: Sunday March 20,1983 at 1pm Fares: $45.00 Round Trip NO REFUNDS $29.00 One-Way 
NOTE: There will be a short meeting following sign-ups for candidate for club officers 
Questions? Call Brian Lease 1743 

Off-Campus Students!! Special Tonight at 



S2·oo Tips 
Specials on Pitchers 
,. 


Offer good for off-campos Students orily!! 


-----------------------------------------;-::---..., 
The Obse1:ver Thursday, February 24, 1983-page 12 
Threaten to bar scouts 


Walker deal angers coaches 
I 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE
NHL Standings Smythe Dvision . By HERSCHEL NISSENSON "l can just see a war brewing be­the past. The AFCA is very proud of In this year's N HL playoffformat, the I top four teams 
w L T GF GA Pts Associated Press tween the USI'L and the colleges," the statement issued by the NFL
in each division make the playoffs, regardless of 

Edmonton 34 19 10 334 259 78
I overall league standing. said l'lorida State's Bobby Bowden. office to the dfect that their league
Calgary 25 28 9 249 255 59I W1nn1peg 24 31 8 237 268 56 Meanwhile, at headquarters ofthe was not interested in breaking their
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE

i Los Angeles 21 30 10 222 264 52
I Adams Division Despite assurances from the · American football Coaches Associa­policy with the AFCA for any ath­
Vancouver 20 29 11 218 235 51
' 
x
W L T GF GA Pts. Norris Division United States football League that tion in Orlando, Fla. -ironically, lete ...." 4 Boston 39 13 8 243 160 86 
Chicago 38 16 8 266 214 84 yesterday's signing of Georgia star the site of the Generals' training McClendon added that "we needMontreal 32 19 10 269 216 74 
M1nnesota 32 17 13 252 220 77 Buffalo 28 22 12 230 212 68 St LOUIS 19 32 12 219 246 50 Herschel Walker did not signal a camp -executive director Charlie to hear something from the t.:SFL" Quebec 27 25 10 259 254 64 
Toronto 19 30 10 224 249 48 wholesale raid on underclassmen, McClendon called it "a sad day for At the Generals' training camp,Hartford 16 40 6 201 308 38 Detrmt 16 32 13 198 249 45 
college 'coaches reacted angrily. college ti>otball" and said he would Chet Simmons, USFI. commis.o;ioner, 
x·chnched playoff spot Some immediately barred "get the word out to all our coaches called the reaction from college 
representatives of the new league about meeting with their squads and coaches and a possible han from
Patrick Division Yesterday's Results x-Philadelphla 39 15 7 255 171 85 New York Rangers 11. Hartford 3 from their campuses. warning them about agents." campuses "a bullet we might have to 
x·New York Islanders 32 20 11 233 180 75 Buffalo 4. Philadelphia 2 Emory Bellard of Mississippi State, McClendon praised the National bite. I would hope everybody wouldWashmgton 29 19 14 239 211 72 New York Islanders 4, Ch1cago 4, he New York Rangers 27 26 8 239 224 62 P11tsburgh 6, W1nmpeg 4 several of whose ll)H2 seniors football League for rejecting a last­understand the position I had to take 
Pittsburgh 14 42 7 197 312 35 Edmonton 6. Washing1on 3 signed with the Nl'W Jersey second attempt by Jack Manton, on behalfof the league."New Jersey 11 37 13 166 252 35 Toronto 3. M1nnesota 2 
Generals, called the Generals' sig­Walker's attorney, to shop the Geor­Generals Coach Chuck Fairbanks, ning of Walker "the single worst gia star around the NFL. a former head coach at Oklahoma 
thing that has happened to college "The co-existence we have had and Colorado, conceded that football since its inception." between high school, college, and "probably the majority of college
Sophomores and Freshmen 
He said that "no USH. football professional football has been very coaches w t ill be upset with the sig­team or representative will have good fi>r one and all," McClendon ning of a player with eligibility access to information or contact said. "The lJSI'L's signing of Herchel remaining. But maybe :-.orne of the with players and will not be allowed Walker to a contract before he can coaches who have the maturity to 
to attend Mis:-.issippi State practice play his final year ofcollege fi>otball look at the whole situation might be sessions." has certainly damaged our situation. better able to grasp the significance George Maclne of Vanderbilt The USFL has just slammed the door. ofthe circumstances." issued a similar warning. in our face, and it hurts. "l know Vanderbilt's standpoint "We have had an existing policy -those guys (the USI'L) are not with the NFL regarding the draft of welcome on my campus and they're undergraduate four-year students
Sunday,Feb.27 
not welcome on my football tield." that has worked extremely well in • • . Bengal 8:00-9:00pm continuedfrom page 16 
Andy Panelli, a graduate student,
Room 331 
defeated senior Mark LeBlanc in a
O'Shag 

v 
split decision. Panelli used his ring savvy and quickness to escape REFRESHMENTS SERVED 
LeBlanc, who tired early in the fight. LeBlanc was able to close the gap be­tween himself and the graduate stu­dent, but was unable to score 
repeatedly inside a'> Panelli was able For further information contact: to slip away and jab at the senior. Profs. Richard Foley, Jorge Garcia, or Tom Morris The finals are Sunday at I:~0 p.m. at the Athktic and Convocation
Room 337 O'Shag, 7534 THE DYNASTY CONTINUES 
Center. All proceeds go to the Holy Crus:-. Missions in Bangladesh. 

~ ­


,.,-":~
/!!\ ,.·~ ...\. 

VISA" 
~­
·a .-./: STROH'S ·\~~

I ~·~
.t

• ~: 699 .~
GENERIC '~ LABATT'S )
\\. CASE ~;:/

SOUTHBENDAVESTOREONLY
BEER149 iEER 1099 ··~. ...· 
PRICES GOOD THRU FEB. 26, 1983 •• •"..-O:•-....t..:.~. 
&PACK CASE 
LIQUOR 

KINGS CELLAR VALUE 
GIN oR VODKA 
399 499 799 
750 Ml 1.0 LITER .1.75 LITER 
GORDON'S VODKA 750 Ml ·--·-429 
999 

GILBEY'S GIN 1.75 LITER --·---·­
___ 1099
SEVEN CROWN 1.75 LITER WINDSOR CANADIAN 

___ 1099
1.75 LITER 

JACK DANIELS750Ml ......... 799 ______ 999
CASTILLO RUM 1.75 LITER JIM BEAM BOURBON 

___ 1099 

1.75 LITER 
CLAN MACGREGOR 
.1099
1.75 l1 TEll 

TRY A NUTTY COFFEE 
• 
1 SHOT FRANGEUCO 

• 
1 CUP COFFEE 


• 
1 TABLESPOON MILK DR CREAM 


BEER-QUARTS 
BUDWEISER  9.19  
OLD MILWAUKEE  7.99  
MILLER  8.89  
LITE  8.99  

CORDIALS 

499
AMARETT0750Ml __________ 
CHIU 
499 
COFFEE LIQUEUR 750 Ml .. -
McGUIRES 
799 
IRISH CREAM 750 Ml --.--­FRANGELICO 500 Ml 
a•• 
HillA._ WALKER 
PEPPERMINT ~f!tN~-P~S-_499
7 

LEROUX 799 
AMARETTO 750 ML .--­
THROW A KEGGER!! 
Jl WINES [g
BLACK TOWER 341 
-LIEBFRAUMILCH 750 Ill ______ _ MARTINI &ROSSI 
711 
~ ASTI SPUMANTE750 Ill _. ____ _ ~~~. TAYLOR 
411 
~tiC~!:~AGNho "' n 4ln n n 
CHAMPAGNE750Ml ... _______ 2 
' t_, :~~~T~~~ ~~~!"~~-~-.---------3" 
4•• 
CARLO ROSSIHITEI -------­
GALLO PREMIUMS 1.5 LITEI 2" 
1
_,_....,.-..,SORIA LAMBRUSCO 750 Ill .1 79 59
GALLO VERMOUTH 750 Ill __ 
TAYLOR CALIFORNIA 399 
CELLARS 1.5 LITER --....--.. 
MANISCHEWITZ 750 Ill __ .2FOR 
soo 

BUDWEISER 29.99 -GENERIC &LIGHT 21.99 MICHELOB 37.99 OLD MILWAUKEE 26.99 DEPOSITS: $45 TAP $10 KEG * NO RENTAL IF RETURNED IN 5 DAYS * SORRY· NO RESERVATIONS 
---~---~-­
--~-----·-·---------~---~-~­
The Observer 




Women swimmers get ready for Invitational 

ByTHERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim­ming team begins preliminary com-_ petition in the Midwest Invitational today, facing some of the strongest teams from Illinois, Michigan and In­diana Action concludes with the finals, to be held on Saturday. 
After closing out its season last Wednesday with a win against Kalamazoo College, the team has · 
been hard at work preparing for this meet. 
An integral part ofgetting ready is mental preparation. "We've been an­ticipating this meet since January," senior co-captainJean Murtagh says. 
"The big thing is to psyched up for it,
since we are already in good physi-· cal shape." 
Irish coach Dennis Stark is pleased with the progress he's seen during the course of the year. He notes, in particular, the fact that the team,. started this season without its four· fastest swimmers from the year before. 
"The girls have worked hard this year," Stark says. "It was difficult for them in their first year ofNCAA Divi­sion I competition. We have a young 
team, and the experience the girls 
races. Both anticipate swimming well. 
Notre Dame's entry in the medley relay of Raili Tikka, Cochiolo, Gam­boa and Korowicki looks to place high as well. This quartet has broken the Irish varsity record for the med­ley relay twice previously this season. 
"Ifthere's one thing that is certain, it is that we will be in the best physi· cal condition of the year," says Gam­boa. "New records are sure to be set." 
"Regardless of how the girls do at the Midwest Invitationals, I would term the season a success," says Stark, "but I hope the team does welL" 
This weekend marks the last home seriesfor the doomed Notre Dame hockey team as it hosts Illinois-Chicago. A win or a tie will put the Irish 
._...................................._................... 
MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY 3 HOURS OF DANCING FOR $150 MICHIANAS LARGEST MOBILE MUSIC SERVICE REQUESTS TAKEN 
~ 

MUSIC MACHINE BUD HALL 679-4043
~ 

....._...................................._............... 
Thursday, February 24, 1983 -page 13 
f.
. 
To ALL those who ordered T·Shirts: 
They're Finally . Q~£ ~--tv 
HERE! ....:.· 
f~ 
........
,-, 
Please come and z pick them up in LaFortune 
Tonight at 7:00pm 

If you can't make !J call Leslie 6950 or John 1570 . 
Extras are 
available for $6.00. 

have gained in collegiate competi-~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~---······················~i
tion has been invaluable. I 

"I've especially been pleased with 
the individual performances of 
Venette Cochiolo, Gina Gamboa and 
Karen Korowicki, and the effort of 
every member ofthe entire team." 
Freshman Cochiolo has lead the 
team this year with her talent in the 
breaststroke t events. She won the 
100-yard breaststroke at the State In­
vitational Swimming Meet earlier in 
February, and figures to finish high 
at the Midwest Invitational also .. 
"This will definitely be the stiffest 
competition we've seen all season," 
says Cochiolo. "But we are looking 
to place well in some events." 
Gamboa will be competing in the 
butterfly events and Korowicki will 
swim the middle range freestyle 
:till~\iUNTERHALL 
INTERHALL HOCKEY STANDINGS South 
Holy Cross (5-G-1) 
Dollon (4-G-1) 
Alumm (2-2) 
Mornssey (2-2) 
St Ed-s(2-2-1) 
Pangborn (1-3-1) 
Fosher ( 1-3) 
Sonn(1-5) 
North 

Oft-Campus (5-0) 
Grace (3-1-1) 
Flanner (2-2-2) 
Cavanaugh (2-2-1) 
Keenan (2-3) 
Stanford (2-3) 
Zahm (Q-5) 
Standongs do not onclude the games played on February22 PtayoHs start on March 3 woth the tonal to be played on March 7 Pa1nngs wdl be announced shortly 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 
of~ ~~~~ 
S 'f.S ~ 'T 
'\)~\~ ~~~ 
20°/o OFF 

Good Mon-Thurs onlv 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 
w/Student I.D. 

Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special 
discount or coupon valid at 
S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 

1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
0.!!01"1!' a H\11\Bit 
SOMECOWGECOURSES 
ARE MORE EXCITING 


THAN OTHERS. 
How many college courses teach you how to shoot the rapids? Or rappel a cliff? Or find your way out of a forest with nothing but a map and compass to guide you? 
At least one does-Army ROTC. 
And you could find your­self doing any one of a number of exciting adventure training activities like these in the Army ROTC program. 
Activities that develop your stamina. And your self-confi­dence. 
But adventure training isn't the only way you develop. You'll also learn the basics of leadership and management by attending ROTC classes, along with the subjects in your major. 
And you'll be excited about two other benefits Army ROTC offers. Financial assis­tance. Up to $1,000 a yearfor your last two years of Army ROTC. And the opportunity to graduate with both a degree and a commission in today's Army-including the Army Reserve and Army National Guard. 
ARMYROTC. 
BEALLYOU CAN BE. 
CALL: Captain Gregory Cannata 
Phone: 
239-6264/6265 

PAID FOR BY ARMY ROTC 

---------------·--~-~---­

The Observer Sports Special-Wrestling Thursday, February 24, 1983-page 14 
Irish travel to N. Iowa for Midwest Regionals 
ByJEFF BLUMB coaches doing the seeding. Sports Writer Irish coach Bro. Joseph Bruno, CS.C, will go into the seeding 
Saturday and Sunday, the Notre meeting armed with a string of past Dame wrestlers will face by far their impressive victories by his wrestlers toughest competition of the season over ranked opponents. This will be as they head to the University of ofspecial help in pleading his case to Northern Iowa for the NCAA Mid­the other coaches, especially when west Regionals. members of his team have already 
At stake for the Irish wrestlers will beaten wrestlers who will be at the be not only a chance to go to the Midwest Regionals. NCAA Championships in Oklahoma And there will be a total of seven City March 10-12 as individuals, but teams in Cedar Falls that the Irish for their team to qualify as well. have already faced this season. Mar­
Originally scheduled to be Friday quette, a team the Irish grapplers and Saturday, the regionals were topped in many weight classes, will moved back a day to accommodate be there. So will Western Illinois, the prestigious Iowa high school Valparaiso, Southwest Missouri State wrestling tournament as well as the and Drake -all teams that Notre National Junior College Tourna­Dame has had a fair amount of ment. success against this year. 
The regionals were originally The Midwest Regional itself will slated to be held at the University of feature I7 independents, in addition Kentucky in Lexington, bur the ro Cal Poly, a school which is Divi­Wildcats have since dropped their sion I in wrestling only. After being a wrestling program entirely. As a Division III wrestling power for over result, the site of the competition I 0 years, Cal Poly decided to move 
was shifted. up to Division I this season. 
Notre Dame will leave for Cedar The Midwest Regionals will Falls and the University Northern feature such other notable teams as Iowa tomorrow morning in order to Illinois State, Indiana State, LSU, make an afternoon weigh-in. Friday's Northern Iowa and Wisconsin­weigh-in will be much different than Green Bay. the norm for the Irish, though. The top three wrestlers in each 
It will be the first time all season weight class, as well as two wild that the grapplers will have to make cards per class, will move on to the what is called "scratch weight." In NCAA Championships in Oklahoma other words, they must cut their City in two weeks. Bruno explains weight down to the original limit of that these wild card selections are their weight class. This differs from made based upon the coaches' es­the regular season where the timation of who the other best wrestlers were allowed a small wrestlers in the tournament were, poundage leeway over their class ones maybe having lost a match by weight. only a point or two. Once again, a bit 
Friday night will be the coaches' of squabbling between coaches can 
.,. seeding meeting. The theory behind result as these selections are being the seeding of the wrestlers is to put made. the top three or four in different Meanwhile, conferences such as brackets. As one can imagine, the ac­the Big Ten will send their top three 
tual seeding process can cause a fair wrestlers in each weight class toOk­amount of squabbling between the lahoma City in addition to a whop­ping ten wild cards per weight. This large number is based upon the fact 

that th~ Big Ten is a much powerful arena for collegiate wrestling. 
Looking at Irish hopefuls for a berth in the NCAA Championships, the name Mark Fisher first pops into mind. A senior with one year of wrestling eligibility remaining, this 126-pound grappler is probably NO's best shot to make it to Ok­lahoma City. 
"Our best shots for Nationals are Fisher and (Mike) Golic," Bruno says. "Fisher because of his ex­perience and Golic because he is a heavyweight and a pretty good ath­
Don Heintzelman 

lete in general."
142 

Golic, best known for his skill on
• 
the football field as a defensive lineman, should also make a strong bid for a spring trip to Oklahoma City. The heavyweight has already beaten a nationally ranked wrestler · from Cal Poly when the grapplers ~ 
made their West Coast swing earlier
I· 
this season and should have the ad­
I 
'' vantage ofa high seed in the regional .'oince Cal Poly will also be there. "Physically there is no reason why they both can't make it," says Bruno, ''but a lot depends on thdr ~ceding and mental attitude." However, Fisher is still recovering from a recurring ankle injury ami
EricCroU'n 

there is some question as to whether
/18 

he will be at full strength this weekend. 

"The mental aspect of wrestling is very important," warns Bruno. "But mentally Fisher's big break was win­
I 
ning the National Catholic Tourna­
I 
ment."

I 
Bruno also feel that Eric Crown
f. 
( IIH), Don 1-leintzelman ( l-!2) and 
~ . 
Phil Baty ( 167) each have outside
I 
charices to make it to the NCAA's. 
"The big thing for us," concludes Bruno, "is that this will not be the tlrst time that we have faced this level of competition because we went to the National Catholic 
Phil Baty Tournament and the BIOLA Invita­167 tional (in California)."
i 

Fisher will proceed to the NCAA <'bampionships next month in Oklahoma Cit •. jeff Blumb profiles the senior standout, ana also previews the Region a Is, on this page. (Photo courtesy ofthe wrestling office)

west Regionals in Cedar Falls, Ia. If successful, 
Top NCAA hopeful 
Fisher gets ready for Nationals 
ByJEFF BLUMB taking down a guy and then putting third seeds," says Fisher. Sports Writer him on his back. If I can't put him on "The highlights of this year for his back, I will usually let him up and me," he continued, "has been win­
Returning from a redshirtcd take him hack down again." ning National Catholic again, and the season last year, Mark Fisher has Fisher's drive to wrestle is simply way I did it, and heating that nation­come on to be the leader of this "self-satisfaction," in his own words. ally ranked guy from UNLV (in the year's I H-2 Notre Dame wrestling "It has really helped to develop BIOLA Invitational)." squad in addition to being its best me a lot as a person in terms of the Bruno points out the importance hope to make the NCAA Champion­idea of winning and losing," says the of Fisher's win over the UNLV f t oe ships March 10-12 in Oklahoma senior engineering major. "I now while the team was out in California City. know how to handle these (winning and his second title win at National 
But tlrst, the 126-pound native of and losing) and am more mature for Catholic just this year. Stevensville, Mich. and Buchanan it." Fisher got his start in wrestling "I think that he became con­High School graduate must get by as an eighth grader. "My brother was vinced then that he could wrestle the Midwest Regionals in Cedar a freshmen in high school on the with and beat the best," says Bruno. Falls, Ia., this Saturday and Sunday. wrestling team and he used to come "It has really helped his confidence, Recently troubled by a recurring in­home and wrestle with me," says Fis­too. jury, there is some question as to her. "So we'd throw a couple of mat­"Although he is the wrestler of whether or not Fisher will be at full tresses down in the living room and ours most likely to make it to Nation­strength by Saturday. go at it, even though I don't think my als, there is still room for improve­
Regardless of any physical mom liked the idea." ment And we still have him for one problems he may have, Fisher will The irony of this story is that Fis­year too.'.' definitely be in Cedar Falls this her's brother -the one who had Despite being a senior, Fisher has weekend as the strong leader of the originally talked him into wrestling one year of wrestling eligibility left Irish squad. "He is our most mature 
because of last year's redshirted wrestler," says Irish coach Bro. season, and he will remain at Notre Joseph Bruno. "We always expect Dame next year because he is in the him to do well ifnot pin the guy. And tlve-year architecture program. just about always feel that he will As ti>r his plans after graduation. win." Fisher would like to go into a design­"'Being a senior on the team," says oriented llcld. "I have always been fisher, "I do feel that I should , something ofan inventor and artist," provide a certain amount of leader­says Fisher. "I even have a few inven­ship which all upperclassmen tions that I'm trying to get patents should respond with." 011. 
And fisher has certainly "Eventual!\, I would like to start responded well to everyone's ex­my own business in the design pectations. Most impressive is his ticiLl." breaking of the previous Notre The reasons behind Fisher's Dame wrestling record li>r most -was I(Jrccd to ended his wreMiirig original decision to come to Notre wins in a season ( :'>5 ) just a little career prematurely because of a Dame wt:rc primarilv academic over two weeks ago. knee problem. rather than athletic. 
Fisher has not just broken the "Still my mother was one of my "I had offer' of full scholarships record either; he has shattered it. biggest tans," ~ays Fisher. "We'd from about I'; universities," says Fb­Fisher stands at a lofty -! 1-1 0 despite pack up the Volkswagen every hcr, "but chose to come to ;\Jotrc being sidelined for portions of the weekend and head to the freestyle Dame because ol its strong season with his ankle injury. tournaments (using international academic tradition, the fact that it 
"I was aware that we would he rules) in all the surrounding states." was a building wrestling program. wrestling in a lot of competition this Obviously, all of Fi.~her's hard and because it was close to home. year, more than in the past, so I was work combined with his mother's "The funnv thing i' that I was not really surprised that I broke the pcrscverencc has paid off t(H him. never much of a ;\Jotre Dame fan un­record," says Fisher, "and it was cer­Prior to this season. Fisher had til I came down and visited the tainly not a goal of mine at the begin­compiled an overall mark of ~7-2'5-1 school. The ttct that the students are ning of the season." at Notre Dame. Add this year's -11-10 all so friendly really acted as an in­Fisher and Bruno pretty much record at this point ncar season's centive for me to come here. too." agree on the timncr's strong suits as end and one comes up with im­Looking toward this weekend and a wrestler. pressive totals of 7H-y;-1. the ~idwest lkgionab. Fisher ofkrs "His speed and number of hshcr's career at Notre Dame has this assessment of hi~ chance' of takedowns impress me the most," had many high points along the way. advancing to the NCAA Champion­says Bruno. "For sure he is best Besides his breaking the most wins ships in Oklahoma City. working on his feet. And he docs a record this year, Fisher has won a "I feel that I will make,U strong bid move called a head-sit to earn him­number of tournaments. as an NCAA hopeful," he says, "but selfa lot of. points." "I'd say that the highlight of my right now !must worry about the in­"I am best wrestling on my feet," first two years was going into the Na­jury to my ankle and getring treat­remarks Fisher, •·and feel I have an tional Catholic Invitational ment on it." ability to take down opponents easi­unseedcd as a freshman and winning Without a doubt, ~ark Fisher is a 
lv. Most of my points arc scored by it by beating the llrst, second, and man who has his priorities in order. 
r 
.. 

Ihee~Ke~er==========================~============== 

T0 d~x=============T=h=~=r=~~ct=a=y=,=Fe=b=r=u=a=ry=2=4=,=I=9=B=3==p=a=g=e=I=s 
Bloom County
,..;.-------..... 
1H£ (}J~y ftRS()j Wl-!0 
f.fflVW HA~ 1HI5 NUMBER 1611-IAT ~00", l)(i.Y KECfPTl~IST AT1H£ 5f.OtON '5 ~RSONAt.S 


Berke Breathed 
OO .. WEJ.L YOU HAVE AN YtAH! 
IRRE:51Sn &-Y 

Y£AI/!
S£XY VOIG£,


)eb Cashin 


I'M O()PERAT£, 
PKOF£SSOI{, I'LL Do 
ANYrH!Nq FOf( AN EXfENSION ON My 

fHfii.CS ONL'{ ONE WAY 
To (jE"r AN EXTENSION IN 
IH1'l Co U.RS( AND 
ntAn 0>/H. H'( DfAD 
t3oD'{ I 


THAN( YOIA, Ptto~ESSO~, 
I'LL NfVER. FOR.qtf' YOV... FOR. TliiS. 

, Campus 
•12 
-5 p.m. -Off Campus Housing Fair, Lafortune Lobby 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Writer's Workshop, Sophomore Literary Festival, Richard Brautigan, Library Lounge 

•4 
p.m. -Hall Tours, Grace, Regina South, And Augusta, Snite Museum of Art, Spo.1sored hy Snite Museum 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Laborat .~ry Seminar, "Laser Studies of Free Radical Kirctics," Dr. S. R. Leone, University of Colorado, Rad. Lab. Con­ference Theatre 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Exponential Maps, Hopf lambda-Algebras, and Representation." Prof. Peter Hoffman, University of Waterloo, 226 CCMB 

•6 
p.m. -Lecture, "Lay Ministry in ChuTch," Ed­wina Gateley, Center for Social Concerns 

•6:1 
5 and 7 p.m. -Christo Films, "Valley Cur­tain," and "Running Fence," Annenberg Auditorium, Free 

•7, 
9:15 and 11 p.m.-Film, "Gaslight," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, S1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Reading, Sophomore Literary Fes­tivai,Jm Carroll, Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Theology Dept. Lecture, Rev. Jam\!s 

H. 
Provost, CU, CCE Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Performing Artist Series Concert, The Prague Chamber Orchestra, O'Laughlin Auditorium, S4 for adults, S2 for students 

•8:30 
-Dance, Abiogenesis Dance Collective open rehearsal, Holy Cross Party Room 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, Breen Phillips Variety Show 


T.V. Tonight 

8:30p.m.  28  Amanda's  
9 p.m.  16  Gimme A Break  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Too Close for Comfon  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  Cheers  
28  It Takes Two  
10 p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Sneak Previews  
11 p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
11:30 p.m.  16  Tonight Show  

22 • Quincy and McCloud 28 ABC News Nightline 
The Far Side 
.. 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS Loses firmness 
5 Celerity 10 Striplings 14 "There 
ought to be-" 15 Sea monster 

26 Snick's 
associate 27 Overshoes 31 Raid 35 Stand-of 36 Footwear 38 Arafat's 
group 39 Claret and 
51 Shoe or family 52 Honest and faithful 56 Proclama· tion 
60 Upland area 
61 Incensed 
63 Cultivate 

12 Facts 13 Weaver's 
reed 21 Comfort: Fr. 23 Playrooms 25 Contradict 27 Surrounds 28 Keep-on 
(watch) 
.. 
""T"""-~,~--------.....·~------~-----·--~----~~~-~--~--~------·-~­
Thursday, February 24, 1983 -page 16




Snorts 

Bengal Bout semis 
Boxer field gets thinned out 
By ED KONRADY 11rst round to defeat senior Pat 
the st:cond round. l.ezvn~ki decked Sports Writer Weber in a split decision. Kellv 
Sullivan with a left-right combina­

~lippnl twice ~n the first roUIJ~I 
tion to the head. The referee

They tight li>r the llolr Cross Mi~­trying to connect on punche~. ;md ~topped the conte~t at l: I 2 of the
sions, buf also for themselves. Last Weber teeded off on Kelly's head. 
senmd.

night the semi-t1nals of the 'i.~rd an­llowever, the end of the tight found 
At 160 pound~, junior Angelo

nual Bengal lloub were completed a ve~y tired Weber, with bloody Perino, the defending champion,with enthusiam by both the crowd nose, staggering. 
t.lefeatt·d senior Mike Sullivan byand the lighters. The tlrst unanimous decision 

unanimou~ decision as heThirty-four men entered the came in the 1-t'i-pound class as 
dominated the tight with quick jab~boxing arena with their eyes ablaze senior Paul Derba defeated graduate and solid combinations. Sullivanwith pride, but more importantly, student llugh Griflith. Derba bested received a standing eight count near

they left with that same look of Grift1th on the many exchanges the end of the third round after twopride. during the tight. Derba was con­stinging rights s_tunned himThe bouts started with two very stantly on the oft.ensive, forcing c;rif­In one of the most entertaining
close decisions in the I .~'i-pound tith to be backing up most of the 
tights of the night, freshman Patweight class. Junior Mike Dan­fight. 

Cusack defeated classmate Bill But­durand bloodied sophomore Mike At I :47 of the second round, ler in a split decision. Both fightersLatz's nose twice in their fight, and junior joe Beatty scored a technical faces were painted with blood as the came out the winner in a split deci­knockout freshman Jeft· Mas­pair threw punch after punch to thesion. Dandurand and Latz traded ciopinto. Beatty dominated the tight delight of the crowd.

hooks early in the first round, but as he staggered the freshman, In a battle of sophomores at 1..,0
Dandurand's ability to slip past Latz's bloodying his face and throwing five pounds, Dave Packo won by unani­flurries of hooks proved to be the solid unanswered punches before mous decision over Mike McGuire.
deciding factor. the referee stopped the tight. 
Packo dominated the latter rounds

In the second tight, Don Senior Steve Sierawski won a as the two tighters slugged it outMcLauren, a sophomore, defeated unanimous decision over freshman throughout the entire fight. stagger­junior Tony Bonacci in a split deci­Mike Mazza in the 1SO-pound class. 
ing each other at one point in the

sion. McLauren overcame a severe The first round was noted only for its final round.
height fa(·tor as Bonacci could not lack of action. Tht· second round By taking the offensive midway
connect with the plucky sophomore was also slow, punctuated by a few through the second round, seniorwho used his superior mobility to solid blows by the senior. The third Doug Maihafer outlasted graduate
good advantage. round, however, brought both stuch:nt John Rice. Both fighters ex­In the 140-pound class, sopho­figh~_ers alive, as Mazza and Sierawski 
changed flurries throughout the 

more Pat Serge scored the first ,mfxed up combinations in flurries. 
fight, with blood coming from Rice'sknockout of the night as he teeded Pave Odland, a senior, stopped nose at the end. 

Herschel Walker may not want to see this Florida player try to off on senior John Conaghan at l :58 ·sophomore Tom Lezynski at 0:54 of 
In the heavyweight division,tackle him, buthis eyes sure lit up when the Newjersey G~nerais of in t1rst round. Serge's left hook the third round with a left to the juni_or Mike Cray punished senior

the USFL offered him a contract estimated to be worth $16.5 mil­decked Conaghan after he had stomach. Lezynski opened up the 
Jim Kinney on his way to a unani­lion over the next six years. Walker signed and forfeited his scored easily with his jabs. second round with an impressive mous decision. Cray's left mystified

eligibility. For more details, see the story below and the related Freshman Edmund Kelly started showing, rocking Odland repeated­
the senior throughout the fight as he 

story inside. ( AP Photo) out very slowly, overcoming a poor ly, but Lezynski tired in the third 
seemed to be able to hit Kinney at 

round and Odland scored at will, 
will. 

bloodying Lezynski's nose and final­Graduate student John lglarly knocking him out.
Instant millionaire 
defeated sophomore Arthur Murphy

In the ISS-pound .class, senior by forfeit. 
Dave Roberts won a unanimous Finally, in the superheavyweight
decision over classmate Joe Mez­
Herschel signs with the USFL 
division, former heavyweight cham­

zapesa. The fight was marked with 
pion Larry Andreini completely

ball League," Walker said. "In
ATHENS, Ga. (AP) -Herschel While he could not disclose early dancing and late clinching. The 
dominated freshman Jim Seith, win­

denying I signed a contract (last
Walker became an instant mil­details of the contract, Manton said pace was slow, but in the third ning by TKO at 1:35 of the second
week), I made a mistake. No one
lionaire yesterday, signing what may various news media reports were round Roberts opened up and round. Andreini had his way
realizes more than I that I am a
be pro football's most lucrative con­close. Asked if the SI6. 5 million scored with a number of combina­throughout the fight as his superiorhuman being.
tract with the fledgling United States figure was accurate, he replied, "It tions. "I wish to apologize to Coach 
reach and strength overwhelmed

Football League, only hours after could be more, it could be less." 
In the second bout in that class, the freshman.
(Vince) Dooley, the University of
being declared ineligible to play at Walker, a three-time All-senior Greg Lezynski scored a TKO In the last fight, crowd favorite
Georgia and all the people that have
Georgia in his senior season. American, was absent while Manton 
over sophomore Mike A. Sullivan. Walker's signing with the New held a news conference, and Manton See BENGAL, page 12 
been my loyal friends. I ask for your 
The fight was full of action, and in
forgiveness and ask God for his
Jersey Generals followed five days of did not wish him to speak, so he read forgiveness," Walker said.
controversy which prompted an in­a speech. ' Manton said Walker would not
vestigation by the National Col­"I wish to clarify my signing of a 
legiate Athletic Association. The contract with the New Jersey 
See MONEY, page 11 

NCAA wanted to know if reports Generals of the United States l'oot­
were true that the Heisman Trophy­
winning tailback had signed with the 
USFL team last Thursday in violation 



Seeing isn't believing 
of the NCAA's rules on eligibility. He had, and, yesterday, was forced to curtail his collegiate career to 

for Akron coach
three years. "He's a millionaire right now," 

AKRON, Ohio (AP)-Even af­control" playt:r. Jack Manton, Walker's agent, said 
ter seeing his Akron University "lie's a great ball-handling outside Walker's off-campus apart­
team trounced by Notre Dame in guard, but I don't think he'll ever ment in Athens. "it's the highest con­
a college basketball game, Zips attain what Joe has attained be-tract ever in pro football history by 
coach Bob Rupert says he still cause he's not the gamblerJoe is. far." 
thinks his star guard, Joe Joe has the guts to gamble. That's Jukaubick, is a better player than what has made him what he is. Manton said details of the con­
Irish star guard John Paxson. "Joe's shots are not by the 
Paxson outscored Jakubick, a book. His moves are not by the 
said it included bonus money, a tract "will never be released," but 

junior who entered the game as book. lie doesn't play by the year's salary in advance and invest­
the nation's top scorer with a book. That's why so many people ments in tax-free municipal bonds, 
28.3-points-per-game average. overlooked him in high school and could include a loan. Reports 
The 6-2 Paxson, a senior, is (Madison High in Mansfield, said Walker had been offered S16.5 
averaging 17.3 points a game. Ohio)." million over a longterm. 
"I've seen Paxson a number of Jakubick said he came away However, indications were yes­
times," Rupert said. "I saw him in impressed with Paxson and the terday that it was· a three-year deal 
high school (Archbishop Alter in entire Notre Dame team, which -worth at least a million a year in 
Kettering, Ohio), and J've seen had a considerable height ad­addition to any bonuses or in­
him a number of times at Notre vantage over the Zips. centives, which would eclipse the 
Dame. "There's no doubt he's a great 5700,000 per year paid by the 
"I may be prejudiced, but I cer­player, one of the best players in Chicago Bears of the National Foot­
tainly don't think he shoots as the country," Jakubick said. "But ball League to Walter Payton. 
long as Joe, he doesn't penetrate as far as I'm concerned, I don't NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle 
as well, and there's no doubt in think he's head and heels above 
my mind that he doesn't post up me. the duration of Walker's contract. "I 
said yesterday that he didn't know as well because he doesn't have 

Bengal Bout competitor Tony Bonacci (left) is seen here in ac­
the sizeJoe does." "He's one heck of an offensivecan only tell you what Walker's at­
tion last Sunday in his quarterfinal win. Last night, however,
After watching Paxson quar· player, but he's got a lot of big
torney told one of our people 

things did not go as wellfor him as be dropped a split decision to
terback Notre Dame, Rupert people around him and that helps(executive director Don Weiss) 
Don Mclaurin. For details on all thefights from last night's semi­
called him "a fine, under-him look bener."
today. 'We'll see you in three years,"' 

final action, see Ed Konrady's story above. (Photo by Ed Carrol I) 
.Rozelle said. 









