
Bob Hope -page 7 


By THERESA GUARINO and MARKP01TER News Staff 
Although to most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students the crisis in Lebanon is a far-away event seen on­ly through newspaper and television reports, two students experience it from a more personal viewpoint. Sheila Whalen, a Saint Mary's sopho· more, has received several letters from Marines stationed there. Ron Karam, a freshman from Pangborn. is from Beirut and his family lives 
there. 
Whalen first wrote to the Marines at the t:.S. Embassy in late Septem· ber "so they'd know they'd been remembered." She did not know any of the Marines personally, so she addressed her letters to the embassy in Beirut. "I didn't expect a response or anything," said Whalen, "so I was very surprised when I got the let· ters." One Marine wrote, "Yours is the first type of this letter we have received. and it really raised the morale ofthe Marines." 
A second Marine wrote, "We arc all very proud of what we are doing over here." Another added, "I love my country and our way of life, so I guess you have to give in order to receive, right?" 
Whalen's letter arrived in Beirut 
the day before the bombing of the 
U.S. headquarters, which killed over 200 Marines. In spite of the bom­bing, Whalen said the letters demonstrate the Marines feel that what they are doing is right, and show a determination not to be forced out. 
The Lebanese people also believe 

Lebanon hits home for 2 students 
Reagan entds Asian trip, pledges more support for S. Korea 
Associated Press 
CAMP LIBERTY BELL, Sot1th Korea -President Reagan arrived at this American outpost on the tip of Korea's tense demilitarized zone yesterday to visit with Gls "on t.he front lines of freedom" and peer across the border at the military threat facing them from the North 
Extraordinary security precau· tions were in force in this rugged, mountainous area for Reagan's three-hour visit, which includes an unprecedented trip into the 2. ;. 
mile wide DMZ separating the that ended the Korean War, a white today and prepared to head back for Korean peninsula. flag of truce wa.o; attached to the the llnited States amid fresh signs of Truckloads of infantrymen clad in door of the limousine. tension on the Korean peninsula and 
camouflage fatigues and toting M -16 rifles rumbled through Liberty Bell as Reagan flew here from Seoul, 26 miles south. 
With Secret Service agents walking at the side and a van of SWAT team agents immediately be­hind, Reagan's armored limousine drove slowly from the helicopter landing zone to a motorpool depot for a prayer service with troops. In accordance with the 19S3 armistice 

Biology student relate bird migr,ation studies 
By MAUREEN O'ROURKE 
News Staff 
Sheila Logan, a senior biolo:~ major at Saint Mary's, is doing a study of migration patterns of birds for her senior project. 
Logan said she catches birds in nets on the nature trail at Saint Mary's. After capturing a bird, she puts a band on its leg and sets it free. If the bird is caught once again after it has migrated, the bird's location is reported back to Logan. From this information, she is able to chart the migration pattern of the bird. 
Logan has caught as many as forty birds in one day. The species she catches most fr,~­quently is the hermit thrush, a 
·.'relative of the robin, whi( h 
breeds in Canada but winters south oflndiana, so it can be seen here during the months of May and October. Logan is going to request information from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, whose computer is able to compile the information it has on the bird and 
send it to her. 
The service, a division of the Department of the Interior, directs bird banding in North America, and keeps precise com­puterized records of all birds banded and the number of bands given out. Each band has a special number on it to identify who uses it. 
A special permit from the or· ganization is required to band birds. To qualify for a permit, a person has to band as an ap-

Under a canopy of green and with the White House arguing that hrown camouflage netting and sur­human rights problems in the south rounded two machine must be measured the
by gun­topped armored personnel carriers and two trucks, Reagan worshipped at a service with about 200 uni­formed Gis. A choir of Korean or· phans sang "Jesus Loves Me." 
The president wore an olive drab parka with fur collar to ward off the chill. 
He wrapped up his Asian journey 

Sheila Logan 
prentice under the supervision of a permit holder. In addition, the recommendations of three per­sons who hold permits are re· quired. Logan does not have a permit but she is working under the supervision ofDr. Doris Watt. who has a permit for educational purposes. Logan believes she might obtain a permit in a few years. 
see BIRD, page 5 

what the Marines arc <lomg is right, and don't want them to pull out, according to Karam. Although Karam attended high ~chool in Paris, he has lived in Beirut most ofhis life, and tries to return there on vaca· tions. "Most of the Lebanese feel the Marines should he there," Karam 

Ron Karam 

said. "It is only a small number of fanatics and extremists who fed they shouldn't be." "The people believe the Marines are helping us to finish this war; they arc a moral and psychological help. With them 
there. we feel the U.S. is hehind us. 
"The Lebanese feel Syria will take over Lebanon if the ll.S. pulls out," said Karam. "Our country asked the Marines to come; they are keeping democracy safe for us." 
Karam blames most of the problems in his country on the Palestinians and the Syrians. "Most of our troubles came from them (Palestinians), and they have been in our country since I94R Our inter· nal problems have been compli­cated by foreign forces in our country." Karam feels the fighting between the PLO factions is sym­bolic of the situation in Lebanon. "They an: fighting between them­selves. yet Lebanon is paying the price and we don't have anything to do with it." 
Most Lebanese are afraid of a Syrian takeover. According to Karam, "the Syrian dream is a "big" Syria, which includes Israel. .Jordan and Lebanon." Many Lebanese fed Syria will take over Ll'hanon by force ifthe Americans pull out. Karam says " the Syrians have no moral qualms ahout the use of forn·." To illustrate this, he related an incident which occurred two years ago in the Syrian city of llamm;t. To quell a revolt there, the Syrian army killed over 20,000 people. This massacre wasn't widely reported because freedom of the press is severely limited in Syria. he said. 
Karam tries to keep an impartial attitude towards the events in his homeland. He says the Moslems deserve mort· political power since they arc 60 percent of the [X>pula· tion. "Beirut. Lebanon is just like Anytown. U.S.A, except for one thing -there's a war going on," \\Tott· one Marine. Karam echoes this saying. "people are used to it. You hear that somt·hody you know got killed, and it's normal. You're a little sad. hut 200,000 people have been killed in the war so far." 
Whelan says she will continue to write to the Marines because she wants the Marines to know that some people at home remember them and support them. 
against military threat from the north. 
As Reagan prepared to leave the country, South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan said he had ordered artillery gunners to stand ready to fire if necessary to protect Reagan during his unprecedented trip yes­terday into the demilitarized zone: 30 miles north of Seoul. The DMZ, 
Grace Hall residents plan 24-hour relay for charity 
By LINDA GASE 
News Staff 
Inspired by the will and fortitude of the ancient Greeks, 26 residents ofGrace Hall are planning a 24-hour running relay to raise money for the Northca.~t Neighborhood Center. 
Under the organization of Grace residents Jim Kirschbaum and Rich Dyer, almost every member of sec­tion 3A Grace, including the RA and the dorm's assistant rector, will par­ticipate in the marathon. It will begin at noon on Friday, Nov. 18and continue until noon Saturday. Each resident will run for 20 minutes around a pre-determined two-mile course, with runners continuously rotating throughout the night. 
The idea originated when Kirschbaum heard of a recent 2.4 miles wide and I 'i I miles long, divides North and South Korea. 
The question of human rights and democracy was treated in one sen· tcnce of a lengthy joint statement issued near the end of the Korean stopover. "The two presidents af­firmed the imrx>rtancc of defending and strengthening freedom and the institutions that serve freedom. openness and political stability." 
An administration official, speak­ing privately. said that including that 
see REAGAN, page 4 

reenactment of the first 24-hour relay dating back to the times of an· cient Greece. The run took place be­tween Athens and Sparta, and covered a distance ofapproximately I SO miles. The section members have also set l SO miles as their goal, hut are hoping to run even farther. 
Money made from the event will go to the Northea.~t Neighborhood Center which provides a range of financial assistance and educational and recreational services to low income residents in the northeast section ofSouth Bend. 
Kirschbaum said "We decided to do it just for the fun ofit. We thought it would be great for section unity, but then we figured, why not do it for charity? With the help of Center 
, .. s~ RELAY, page 4 
------------------------------------------~ 

j 


The Observer Monday, Novemb~r 14, 1983 -page 2 
In Brief . ,;: Taking notice of the hungry 
' '.; . 
. . • '·"lot: 
A 2-story addition to Notre Dame's power plant will house a new chiller to increase the University's capacity of air con­ditioning on t·ampus. The current capacity for cooling water of 6,000 tons per hour will he increased to 9 .. ~00 when the equipment is installed. Steam turbine~ operate the chillers which circulate water through a dosed loop system of pipes. Measuring SO hy 78 feet, the addition will contain enough spat·e for two chillers should the l :nivcrsity decide to purchase a second one. Currently air condi­tioned campus structures indude the Athletic and Convocation Center, Galvin Life Science, the Computer Center, the Snitc Museum of Art, J'itzpatrick I!all ofEngineering, two dining halls, Hayes-Healy, the l.aw &·hool addition and others. The new Dccio Faculty Hall will ht· added to the system when completed in April. -The Observer 
Six legal experts who say drunken driving defendants often don't get fair trials arc touring the nation teaching lawyers how 1<1 win acquittals even if thtTe is substantial evidence against thtdr dk-nt~. At a M'minar in Houston laM wct·k, the group recommended tactks ranging from showing juries the college grades ofbreath-test operators to filing "a half-pound" of pre-trial briefs in hopes the prosecutor will agree to a plea bargain. They urged defense lawyers to chalknge evt·ry· law, police oftkn and chemical test prest·ntcd by prosecutors and to "he creative" in finding new strategit:s to acquit thdr clients. Drunken driving cases "offer very fertile grounds tiJr attacking the state'~ case," said Lawrence Taylor, a law professor in Washington state and the author of the book, "Drunk Driving lkti:n~c" Seventy lawyers from throughout Texas paid Sl60 t·ach li1r tht· ~t·minar ami spent the day eagerly taking notes and asking 
qut·stions. "I have no apologies for coming to something like this," Dalla~ lawyt·r Pett·r l.esst·r said. 'The defense lawyer's job is to reprt·st·nt his dknt and make ~urt· that the state proves its case heyond a re<L"mahk doubt." -AP 
Of Interest ­
The architect who designed the cushwa­
l.t·ighron Library at Saint Mary's. Evans Woollen, will he speaking this al'tt-rnoon at -i in the Architecture Building auditorium. Woollen has worked in tht· oftkes of Phillip Johrmm and John Johansen. He l'S· tablishnl the firm Woollen and Associates in Indianapolis in 1970. Examples of Woollen's designs have appeared in Architectural Record andArchit(•c/uml Forum. After the lecture, at 'i:~O. Woollen willnmduct a 111ur ofthe <:ushwa-l.l"ighton Library. -7he Obsen•er 
Georgie Anne Geyer, the tirst female foreign news n1rrt·sp~ llllknt. will discuss foreign affairs tonight at H in C;~rrollliall al Saint Mar(.'-A nationally syndicated columnist. Geyer has intt·r­vit-wnl ''orld lt'atlers sw.:h as Anwar Sad at. Fidel Castro. Avatollah Khomit·ni, antll.ech Walt-sa. lin spen·h opens tlw College II.> Career Days ami \X omt·n's Opportunity Week at Saint Mary's. -Tbe ()IJ. 
S£'1'1'er 
The executive director ofPlanned Parenthood, 
l'li/ahcth \looney. will discus~ the philosophies and services of the 
org;mization tonight at -: ~0 in the \kmorial l.ibrary Lounge. Tht· 
talk is ~pon~ornl h) the Women·~ ( :aucus. -1be ( >!Jsen•er 
A 28-year veteran explorationist will be 
'haring his t·xperit·nt'l's with geology studt·nts of:'IJotre Damt· at ·1:.~0 
p.111. lml;t) in Hoom Ill I of tht· Earth "cit·nn·s Building. <.harks S. llartll'll _lr.. d1it-f geologbl for Bartlett Energy Exploration. Inc.. Ahington. \'a.. has exten~iH· l'Xperit'lll't' in t·xploration of the ;\rJ..om;l ha.,in and Ltstt·rn I h'crthrusr region ofVirginia. Prt·viou~ly. llartkll \\as a professor of Emory and llt·nry· Collegt·. Emory. Ya. 
IIJ(' 0/J.~('/1'('/' 
The Esmark Collection of Currier and 1\'l'~ lit­hographs will ht· on display at the Snite Museum of Art heginning today. "Amt·rit'an M idtllt· Class \'alut·s. Recreation and Education" is ont· of six grouping~ owned hy tht· Chicago-based holding company and currt·ntly on a nationwidt·lour. Popular in the era between IH~'i and IHHO. tht· lithograph~ wert· li1umt in virtually every· American home. Today tht·y are tkscriht·tl a~ "preservation of tht· romance of America." The Esmark collection of more than 6'i0 original lit­hographs illustr;llt'S a time of unprecnlt·ntetl growth and change in the country. -7be Ohsen•er 
>· ..<. -·{( _· _··:..~.
Weather. :'. . . ' " ..... -,; :, ' . . 
-~ . "! • . . ~ . ' . 
Increasing cloudiness during the afternoon today. Cool. with high in the mid 10 upper -iOs. Cloudy tonight with an HO pert·ent d1ann· of rain. Low in tlw low 40s. Cloudy romon:ow. with on·asional rain. High in the mid to upper 40s.-AP 

It is easy for college students to lose perspective on world situations, especially those living on campus. The main source of daily information about campus and world issues for Notre Dame students is The Observer and the only one for many. Although students may keep abreast of campus issues through this information sys­tem, it cannot thoroughly cover all national and world events. 
Many mistakenly assume that they arc fully informed of all issues and problems facing the world today just hecausc those problems made the headlines. The situa­tions in Grenada and Lebanon have been at the forefront of the media arena for the past several weeks. Day after day developments in the problems involving both countries have made headline after headline. Be­
cause ofthis these issues continually make page one, so that by a mere glance at the paper one is informed of world events. 
The controversy revolving around United States' in· volvement in <Jrcnada and Lebanon spurs heated debates and rouses latent convictions in once apat­hetic students. But how many of those strong­minded students actually do something to make a dif­ference? It is possible to ef. fect change in government through lobbying and even by letters to those in Wash­ington, D.C. Peaceful demonstrations and rallies supportillJ or condemning t:nited States involvement 
in Grenada and Lebanon is another route many stu­dents choose; but other than being a symbolic show of one's personal convictions and a public statement of a group's beliefs, protests do nothing concrete to bring about change. 
Then, too, thne arc other prohlcms facing our world, the world beyond Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, which despite their impact on each one of us as part of the world community rarely make the front page ofany col­lege or city newspaper -in fact they rarely ever make the news at all. World hunger is one SliCh problem. 
Unlike political prublcms in Grenada and Lebanon, the problem of world hunger cann<'t be mitigated by sending ll.S. troops into Banglcdesh or even neighbor­hoods in South Bend. Writing our congressmen and lobbying in Washington will not alleviate those suffer­
ing from starvation. This is a problem which all countries face every day of I he year. Possibly, it is be­cause ofthis that world hunger has become a victim ofa people suffering from the ostrich syndrome (the ten­dency to ignore I he existence ofa problem rather than striving to resolve it). All of us suffer from this 

_The_Obs.erYer__ CnmfUJSitiun /:'ditnr..... . ........ .J.P. 1)•pest•l/ers........ . ......... \lick. Mkhc.:lil' Neu·s l:'tlifor.......... .....\tar~. Boh. and Paul (.npJ• /:(filtJt' ..... . .......... \l~lrk and Marc .\fmr/s Co/Jy Fditor... ..... hi Konrad~ H•a/ures CfJfJJ' l:'clitfJr ......................... Sarah Editorials l.arout. ...... Kcflh .'vf) J)(~l' l:'tlitor.... . ....\1clinda? .\'Jf( Vay l:'ditur...... . . Mary Ann PbtJIORrtlpber.... . ....... 'l'lH1111 Guest Appearances Tom :\lo" h.: (ton~ib! wh~t ton~ils! ). rnau,:hing !tystl'lll!'t manaj.tlT!>t (paM am.l prl'~l·nt ). h1s and lwr~ ':t's, an annoying filsl'. Hl'l/o for fb(• la.o;t tinu•: Pl·lt: \\"hitl' amltlll" Bc.:a.'t. Mikc..·y 0 .. NtH l'nough ol' ,\till. P;lr :\. Maria Schl'll's gho~l. lknnis Hyan. A colt..,picuou~ lack of t.:n·alivity. Too m~my Nl'ws Editors. ~:ott~ llowc:r. ,\larlhoro~. Tunl'S, :\ call for hl'autiful cousin Liz. anothl'r l·all tor c4ually h<·autiful Shirl<'). llmnh. llowlly. llowdy-for all rd;ations. ( ihoM thoughts h,r Maura and 'thosl' guys'. Hungl·r for Azar~· Hig Bopt, inc.:ttC:ctin· hodil's, Tl'rry and hc.:r Ill'" hahy. I.ihhy!!. Brian. Fac..'l'. Dog. A pl·rft.'(..'l rock. J.P.'s last t.fiiOf(•: "It's jusc not fun o111rmorc." ) ·'·:l. ., ~ 1/')...j! .?('(.( ~ It'v ·' J/ I' !  
I I I \ The O~er (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vaca11on penods The ObMrver 1s published by !he students of Notre Dame and Satnl Mary s College Subscnpttons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnting The ObMrver. P 0 Box 0. Noire Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The ObMrver IS a member of The Aaaoclllted Pren. All reproduction nghls are reserved  

r----------------~ 
I INFLATION ( I 
I GOTYOUI I I BLOOD I
I BOILING? I 
I We can help relieve II some of that pressure! 1 
I HOW?wewillpayyou I
I up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I 
I It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfy II reclining chairs while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. I 
I You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your II second donation within the same week...AND we will give you a I free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. 
I PLUS I
I I
We Will Give You an Additional I $4 If you bring this ad with you. 1
1 '(~iter applicahle to first time donors on~y/r I I I
For more information call
I 234-6010 or come by515 Lincolnway West I 
I AMERICA~,~~;~;A SYSTEMS I 
A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others II Tues and Sat 8am-5pm II Wed and Fri 9am-5pm .I 
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Inside Monday 

syndrome in some degree at one time or another. 
Saint Mary's is working to overcome human ten­dencies toward apathy and casual acceptance of a problem which has no permanent solution forthcoming by participating in a fast for a world harvest. The solu­tion to the problem ofhunger, starvation, and distended stomachs is not just a hand-out away. Perhaps it is be­cause the end ofsuffering people ofthe world seems so intangible that human nature tends to focus its atten­tion on new and seemingly solvable problems like tho.,e 
facing Grenada and Lebanon. News of the starv­ing does not make the headlines. 

Nevertheless Saint Mary's students are taking on the·. problem of world hunger in a way which will make a dif­ference. On Nov. I 7, more than 900 Saint Mary's stu­dents will participate in the nationwide Oxfam Fast for a World Harvest -more stu· dents than ever before. These stutlcnts have agreed to give up their meals at the dining hall Thursday. SAGA food service is donating SI.S S per student, more than half the cost of each meal. Last year, money was 
sent to Oxfam, Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh and reliefagencies in the United States, among others. 
Giving up the day's meals at SAGA is a tanglible means of effecting a change in the situation of world hunger. Fasting on Thursday (no Huddle or Wendy's) is a 
. powerful statement -not just one which voices the belief that as students we have the power to alleviate the suffering ofthe starving, but that through fasting we share in their suffering as a Christian community. The fast is a positive way to ally ourselves with those beyond Saint Mary's gate. Thursday is a perfect opportunity to regain lost perspective on the prohlems facing the world community while we are within the campus community -without the red tape of legislation or government involvment. In a letter dated Nov. I 0 to Saint Mary's students, John M. Duggan, president of Saint Mary's, summmed up the impact student participation will have. "Denying ourselves or giving of ourselves u•ill nourish our spirits; doing it together on Thursday will enrich our community as it reminds us ofwho we are and what we can become... 
The Observer 
Amtrak tr:ain derails, killing 4, iJrijuring 24 in northeastern Texas 
Associated Press 
MARSHALL, Texas -Five cars 
from the Amtrak train Eagle derailed 
in a wooded, rural area Saturday, kill­
ing at least four p<"._.ple, while 24 
others were hospitalized, authori­
ties said. 
Donald Engen, a member of the National Transportation Safety Board from Washington, said a rail that was shattered in the accident would be the focus of the federal in­vestigation of the derailment, th~ second-worst accident in Amtrak's I2-year history. 
Four passengers were unac­counted for late Saturday night, but authorities presumed they had !eli: the scene on their own by catching rides with cars on a nearby highway. 
The train, carrying 1j~ passen­gers, 12 Amtrak employees and the Missouri Pacific railroad employee:>, was heading from Chicago to San An­tonio at I0:10 am. when the acci­dent occurred, said Amtrak spokesman R. Clifford Black. H;u-­rison County Sheriff Bill Oldhar!l said the manifest showed I45 p;u;­sengers and 18 crew members aboard. 
There were initial conflicting reports about the number of dead and injured, from the scene, the hospital and Amtrak official~. Oldham blamed the lack of a good passenger list for the confusion. Rail­road employees were counting the 
number ofpeople aboard the time of 
the derailment, he said. 
"It happened so quick," said pas­senger Adah Sarber of Lakeville, Ind. "There was no warning. We were going along ...heard this terrible crash ...glass was flying." 
A ticket agent said the train had been running late and one passenger said the train had been speeding to get an ailing passenger to a doctor. 
A data recorder on board showed that the train was traveling "something just under" 7'; mph ­the speed limit for passenger trains -when it derailed, said Missouri & Pacific Vice President Richard Davidson. 
Lab tests would be needed before it could be established conclusively whether the separated track caused the derailment, Black said. A final report from the NTSB probably won't be ready for at least four months, said Engen. 
"The train derailed because ofthe 
break, but there's probably more to 
it," said NTSB spokesman Bob Buck­
horn, elaborating on Engen's state­
ment. "A train can pa~s over a break 
in the rail without derailing." 
Buckhorn said the rail was broken 
in several places, causing the separa­
tion. 
Saturday's derailment was the worst Amtrak accident since june I 0, I971, when I I people were killed in an Amtrak wreck in Salem, Ill.. Black said. 

Monday, November 14, 1983 -page 3 

Thl· ( >hsc:rn-r Thom Ur;jdh'~ 

An art admirer regards samples from "Photographs I~)' Fritz
Framed again 

Kaeser," current~)' on exhibit at the O'Shaughnessy Galleries until 
Dec. 31. 
Women's groups speak to bishops 


communiCAliOn 
C. I HE A IRE 
November 14 
7:00PM
Bringing IJp Baby J193Bi USA 
Directed t,y Heward Hawks B W. 102 mrn In thrs screwbcll class•c. the propnety of Cary Grants hie as a screntrst rs hrlanously statlered by Kathenne Hepburn w1fh a little help from the leopard and dog rn her entourage 

t JnMR511Y OE notRE DAmE 
Annenberg Aud.,Sni1teMuseum Admissi<)r ..........---lrt() ~~ II t(3 ltilr---_$_z_.._o-0 .,. 
·rll..llllllllltiiiiiiiiiii..MIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII..IItllllllllllllllllllttf 
$2 STUDENT & FACULTV DISCOUNT 
Show your I. D. card and receive our regular $7 haircut for $5. $14 shampoo/cut/blow dry style for $12. 
(No additional discount cards or coupons accepted) 
THE ROY.AL LANCER 
University Commons Courtyard 
(S.R. 23 next to Tempo Fashions) ~ 
Walk-Ins are welcome Weekdays 9-6 Saturday 9·3 
Men and Women's Hairstyling 272·7880. -' 
....,,,, .... ,,, .. ,, .. ,,,,,, ..,, ...... ,,,., ..,,.,,,, ..... " ... '''""''''''"'''''''''''''''"'''''c 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Somt: 7S American bishops at a weekend con­ference showed sympathy for women's desire for bigger roles in the Catholic Church, hut gave no hint the church was ready for female priests. 
The meeting with Catholic women's groups that ended yester­day preceded this week's annual gathering of nearly 300 church leaders at the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. Questions to he considered include the possible need for a "pastoral letter" aimed at 
reassuring disenchanted Catholic 
women. 
The question ofwomen's roles is a 
controversial and sometimes painful 
one for church officials and mem­
bers. However. this year's meeting is 
receiving less public attention than 
last year's gathering, where the bis­
hops approved a letter supporting a 
"freeze" on nuclear weapons production and denouncing even the threat ofusing such weapons. 

The Reagan administration sought unsuccessfully to have the bishops soften their stand against nuclear weapons. 
Most of the main speakers at this weekend's conference -none of them bishops -supported the idea­of wider church roles for Catholic women. They contended that pra<."tices of limiting the priesthood and other leadership oftices to men were products of the second cen­tury and later, not of the Gospels of Jesus Christ. 
But all were well aware that Pope John Paul II had told American bis­hops two months ago in Rome that they should tell their Catholics that "the church's teaching on the exclu­sion of women from priestly ordina­tion is extraneous to the issue of discrimination and that it is linked rather to Christ's own design for the priesthood." 
In addition, the pope said, bishops n1ust withdraw all support from anyone who promotes ordination of women. 
In that context. BishopJoseph Im­esch, chairman of the group's Com­mittee on Women in Society and the Church, was asked why the meeting was taking place. 
"I don't think the Holy !'ather said 
don't talk to women," Imesch 
replk'd. "'I think there is a hig dif­
ference between support and 
dialogue."' 
Several women at the meeting 
questioned the value of the all-male 
hishops writing a pastoral ktter on 
women, even if it is phrased in the 
most sympathetic and supportive 
terms. 
While I I groups of Catholic women attended the Washington meeting with the bishops, more than I,000 others were holding their own, more-militant conti:rence in Chicago over the weekend, saying they should he demanding hctter status in tht· church rather than continuing to meekly ask ti1r it. 
COLLEGE TO CAREER DAY'S OPPORTUNITY WEEK 1983 
BE THERE! 
November 14-17 this week!! 
OVERSEAS JOBS 
Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightseeing. Free info. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
THE REAL SCIENCE OF 
Sneak peek at life after graduation O.C.S.IS TO HELP YOU DISCOVER THE LEADER 
for N 0-SMC women 
IN YOU. 

Army Officer Candidate School 
(O.C.S.) is a 14-week challenge 
w1ll make you d1g deep ins1de 
yourself for mental and phys1cal 

toughness. For stamina and courage. It isn"t easy. But you'll discover what"s inside you. You'll know you have what 11 takes to lead. You'll some out a trim, fit commJSSJoned officer in the Army, ready to exercise leadership sk1lls civil tan compan1es put a prem1um on. If you're about to get your degree rn engineering or science, it could be your next science should be 
O.C.S. Call your Army Recru1ter. 
SGT JONES 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
. -. 
;

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~0 
~ ....... 4 .... " ...... " ..... 1ft. ........ •• --......... 

--....... -.. "" ~ .. -.. ---..... -.... --........ ---... _l 
' 
.J 

, 
The Observer Monday, November 14, 1983 -page 4 

AP Phmu 
Protestors participating in the Nov. 12 Coalitions National March on Washington gather near the Lincoln Memorial Saturday. Presidential candidate Rev. Jesse Jackson is scheduled to address the group which has been slated as the first national demonstration ofopposition to Reagan administration foreign policy since the invasion ofGrenada 
Parents of slain Grenadian rulers welcomed U.S. invasion of island 
A.o;..'K>Ciated Press 
ST PAl 'I.'S. (irt·nada-Tht· pan:nts of Marxist Prime 

Minister Maurin: Bishop and Education Minister Jac­
qudirll' <:rdt. who were killnl in the coup that sparked 
thl' II.S. inva.,ion of Grl'nada. have wdcomed the 
American military lilrces. 
"I don't know ahout what Maurice would have said. 

But Wl' wTrl' vny happy," Ali menta Bishop, mother of 
tht· ~lain primt· ministl-r, said Monday night."Wt· didn't 
know what was going to happt·n -all theSl' guys run­
ning around with guns killing pl'opll'." 
Mrs. Bishop. a widow, abo spoke lilr her daughter. 

Ann. and Ubhop's hrotlll'r, Ltlkrnard. Another 
daughter..\1aurn·n.lives in Uarhados with her hushand. 
"Wl' don't nmsider it an invasion. It was a rescue 

operation." said Allan Crdt, lathl'r of Ms. Crl'ft; .~6: 
Ms. Crdi and Bishop, .i'J. had a S-year-old son, 

Vladimir. 
Valdimir knows his father is dead. But his grandparents havl'n't !Old him )'l't ahout his mothl'r who also was killl'd (>ct. I') along with two otht·r cahinl't ministl'rs. 
As Crl'fi ami his wifl'. l.ynn. rl'miniscl'd about hn daughtl'r. tht· hoy ran into thl' living room. Wl'aring a footh:rll T-.~hirt. \'l:u.limir talked ahout hb plans to ht· Supl-rman. 
Altl'r Ill' scampl-rnl oft'. Mrs. Crdt. said: "We'rl· not going to sl·nd him hat·k to school just yl't. Thl· othl'r childrl·n will ask him too many qut·stions. 
"I k knows his fat her was killed. hut wt·'re just now tl'lling him that his mothn is :tw ay," she said. "I k asked ml' thl' othl·r day:'( iranny. did tht·y shoot my mommy?' I told him. 'No.'·· 
Sitting in thl'ir modt·st homl· lt-ating through photo albums. tht· n;mmon n·frain from the familil's was delight at the t·.s. invasion and arrest of thost· respon­
• • • Relay 

continuedfrom page I 
l>irl't'lor lknalda Rohinson. thl' 
mar:Jihoncrs  :~re  hoping  money  
raisl'll  will  go  spcdlk:~lly  toward  
supplying  Thanksgiving  and  

Christmas meals lilr needy families in I lw arl·a. 
l'eopll' either can give donations or makt· pledges of a cntain amount pt·r mill'. 
The start ot thl' run and tht· main lll'adquartcrs will hl· locatt·d at the site of thl· Old Fil'ldhoust·. Thl· courst• will makt· a figure l'ight en­compassing hoth till' North and South quads with t·adr participant an·raging I I 0 minutt·s of running timt·. The runnns art· calling tht· rday tht· "(iuuin' It Run" hecausl', as stTtion memher Bill Mc<irath said, "Wl' want t:Vl'I)'Onl' guuin' it out. No pain. no gain." 
Go! Notre Dame ~ 

,fe>'~~~(~ 
Fly Home to N.Y.C. for Christmas 
with the 
Long Island Club 

$195 R0und Trip South Bend -La Guardia 

Leave: Dec. 12, 1983 After last Final Exam Call Mike Levchuck at 8253 
for reservations Seats are limited 

sibk for the Oct. I 9 bloodbath, and a continuing in­dignation that they have been unable to daim their loved ones' bodies. 
"The Friday after the shooting, I called th<: fort and told them I want my father's body," said 22-year-old Patrick Bain, one of six children of the Housing Minis­ter, Norris Bain, who was slain at Fort Rupert with Bis­hop. 
"The woman on the other lines says 'Oh, Norris Bain, 
hmm.· And I can hear soldiers in the background laugh· 
ing at this. They were all jolly," the young man said bit· 
terly. 

Most of the relatives gave up two or three days aftt·r 
the slayings, and they can only speculate about what 
happened to the bodies. On this island, Christian burials 
are important. ,.. M1111. Bishop said she has heard that soldiers aimed heavy weapons at the bodies, blew them up and buried the pieces. 
Mcrl)·dalt: Bulkn, father of ~lain in­surance man Kl'ith Bullen, said he had heard the bodies Wl'rl' buried behind one of the island's prisons. 
"My son wasn't a criminal. He doesn't deserve to he treatt·d like a criminal." said Bullen, his voice choking. "But he lovl'd Maurice Bishop," Bullen said. "lie went to Fort Rupert to die for him." 
Mrs. Crl'ft had gone up to Fort Rupert to bring Bishop and her daughter chn·se sandwiches and bottles of Coca-Cola because they had eaten little for st:Vl'ral days whill' under houst· arrl'st. 
"I almost had two victims." Creft said. 

"When we were insidl', tht· army sent thrl'e of those armored personnd carriers up tht· hill and thl'}' started firing." Mrs. Creft said. "Maurin· said 'hit the ground.' and we all fell down. A link girl was hit by a bullet in the head." 
Anti-nuke protestors march in W. Europe 
Associated Press unspecified incidents away from the main service. 
Hundreds of protesters staged angry demonstrations in England and Australia yesterday demanding an end to nuclear arms. At least I37 arrests were reported. 
In the East German city of Dres­den, approximately 20 candle· carrying youths also held a "peace" rally, and dispersed quietly when poli'ce approached. 
A group of protesters in London fell to the ground in a "die-in" demonstration during a Remembrance Sunday service in which Britain's royalty, and political and military leaders paid tribute to the nation's war dead. 
Scotland Yard said 18 people 
were arrested on charges of 
"insulting behavior" for taking part 
in the demonstration at Parliament 
Square, one block from the 
Cenotaph monument where the 
memorial service was held. 

The demonstration passed un­noticed by those gathered around the monument. Their heads were bowed for two minutes ofsilence af­ter a procession of dignitaries, induding Pr!nce Charles and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, laid wreaths. 
Police reported eight other anti­nudear demonstrators arrested in 
continuedjrompage 1 

remark required long negotiations with the Koreans. 
The joint statement recapped Reagan's visit, emphasizing the U.S. military commitment to South Korea and the importance of the Asia-Pacific region. 
Assessing the trip to Japan and South Korea, Secretary of State George P. Shultz said the "main sig­nificance is the recognition of the importance ofthis area to the United States and the continuing effort to develop our ties and resolve the problems that we have in this part of the world." 
Regarding Reagan's trip to the DMZ, Chun said he had hoped Reagan would change his mind about touring "such a dangerous place." 
CHEESE FONDUE A BASKET OF FRESH BAKED BREADS CHUNKS OF APPLE ... A POT OF MELTED CHEESE ... 
EVERY MON. & TUES. 

MICHIANA 'S SLOW FOOD RESTA llRANT 
l i'PEH LE\ El. • '1\l"i BilE\\ ER\ BUH•. • 100 U::\TEH 
At a U.S. Air Force base in Green­ham Common, SO miles from Lon­don, both women protesters and servicemen observed a moment of silence for Remembrance Day. The first cruise missiles to be deployed in Western Europe are due to arrive at the base soon. 
Hundreds of women protesters scaled a fence at a U.S.-Australian base in Alice Springs, Australia, and battled with police demanding that authorities dose the facility. 
Police Sgt. Darryl Menzie said I II women arrested were charged with violating a restricted area. 
More than SOO women and children had been camped outside the Pine Gap installation since Friday. 
In Dresden, where 3S,OOO people died in a Feb. 13, 1945 Allied bom­bing raid, visiting Archbishop of Canterbury Robert Runde, head of the Anglican Church and a British World War II tank commander, ap· pealed for an end to the nuclear arms race. 
"What better place to speak on this theme than in this city which has suffered so much in war," said Runde, preaching at a Remembrance Day service in Dres· den's Cathedral. 
• • • Reagan 
Tens of thousands of flag-waving Koreans lined the streets ofReagan's long motorcade route out of Seoul to the airport. Reagan rode in an armored limousine with South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan. At the airport, Reagan got a brass band send-off and he was escorted down a red carpet to the steps ofAir Force One by Chun. 
South Korean military forces lined the perimeter of the airport, stand­ing sentry at I0-yard intervals. The departure ceremony wa.~ held in front ofa huge banner erected at the airport terminal with pictures of Reagan and Chun and the American and South Korean flags. 

John Underwood: Sports Illustrated's Conscience 
The decline of multi-million dollar sports business and the crisis in football 
"Big business ethics and the war ethics of coaches/players are producing a climate of permissiveness that is running football" 
Thursday Nov 17 8 pm, Lib. Aud. Sponsored by Student Union Academic Comm. 
~tudents are invited to submit in 25 words or less why they would like to dine with Mr. Underwood at a pre-lecture dinner. Submit name, phone number to 2nd floor of LaFortune--Academic Commission 
The Observer Monday, Novetnber 14, 1983-page 5 
Leftists gain lead in Pem elections 

Associated Press 
LIMA, Peru -Left-wing can­didates gained commanding leads in many of the municipal elections held yesterday as voters gave a sharp rebuff to President Fernando Belaunde Terry's centrist Popular Action Party. 
Although guerrillas of the Maoist Shining Path movement had vowed to disrupt the nation-wide voting, the elections generally were quiet 
and  orderly  under  heavy  police  
protection.  
There  were  eight  small  explo­ 

sions last night near the Lima head­quarters ofthe United Left coalition, but no casualties were reported. A police official said the blasts caused some damage and four suspects were arrested. 
Alfonso Barrantes, United Left's mayoral candidate in Lima, was run­ning well ahead of several op­ponents, according to Peruvian Public Opinion, an independent pol­ling organization. 
It said that with 60 percent ofthe Lima vote in, Barrantes had 33 per­cent and was well ahead ofhis rivals. 
Peruvian Public Opinion -POP -said leftists and center-left Social Democrats appeared heading for victory in about 38 percent of the municipal races. 
In the 1980 municipal elections, Belaunde's party won 35 percent of the city halls, followed by United Left with 24 percent, the Social Democrats with 22.6 percent and conservatives with 10.9 percent. 

Official results were not expected for 1 0 days. 
"We represent the hope of the people who have been deceived too long," Barrantes told cheering sup­porters at a rally in the United Left headquarters a few minutes before the bombs exploded near the build­ing. 
POP said that in the race for mayor in Lima, Social Democrat 
Alfredo Barne;:hea trailed Barrantes 
with 26 percent of the vote, Con­
servative Ricardo Arnie! had 20 per­
cent and Popular Action's Alfonso 
Grdos had only 13 percent. 
In Ayacucho, a stronghold of the Shining Path guerrillas, Leonor Zamora Concha, the candidate of the opposition PADIN party, won the mayor's race with 46 percent of the vote, according to POP. 
Chinese pilot defects 
Associated Press 
TAIPEI, Taiwan -A Chinese air force pilot flew a MiG-19 jet fighter to Taiwan yesterday and asked the Nationalist Chinese government for political asylum, the Defense Minis­try reported. 
The Nationalist Chinese have a 
standing reward of gold worth mil­
lions ofdollars for any pilot in com­
munist China's air force who defects 
with his warplane. The amount 
depends on the type ofplane. 
A Defense Ministry spokesman said the pilot landed at Chiang Kai­shek International Airport on the outskirts of the capital of Taipei at I 0: I 5 a.m. ( 9:1 5 p.m. EST yesterday) and wa~ es<.·orted from the Soviet­designed aircraft I 0 minutes later. 
He identified the pilot a~ Wang Xuechen, 26, but did not give his military rank. Thc spokesman said Wang had flown to Taipei from an air ba~c at Luqiao in. China's coastal province ofZhejiang. 
He was the second Chinese air force pilot to defect this year. On Aug. 7, Col. Shen Tianqin, a 46-year­old test pilot, flew a MiG-21 to Seoul, South Korea. He was allowed to go to Taiwan on Aug. 24 when thc Nationalist Chint·s~: gov~:rnment ac­cepted his rcquest for a~ylum. 
Th~: government also gave him the equivaknt of 5j.H5 million in gold. 
• • • Bird 
APPhoto

Grapes "'"'*'of Wrath 
A pro-Arafat PLO fighter eats grapes Friday in the Baddawi Palestinian camp as a ceasefire baited fighting between Syrian backed PLO rebels and PLO forces loyal to Yasser Arafat. 
continuedfrom page 1 
Logan received the idea for her project from Watt, who has been banding birds for nine years. She began catching birds and ban­ding them last spring to prepare for her project. 
The Fish and Wildlife Service provides the bands and informa­tion collected about the birds for free. 

Watt affirmed that birds are not harmed by banding. She said,"So many people feel sorry for the birds and think we are being cruel to them but banding doesn't harm them at all." Watt is planning to teach a class in omit­hology. the study of birds, this spring at Saint Mary's. 
Logan said she picked her projcct because she likes to bc outdoors. "While so many other biology majors are doing their projects in the lab, my project is fun because it is outside," she said. 

.... --~..:.."r>t..-~a."-..._·_-_ .._._ • . • .._....._... ~-· .._._ ............ . 

Monday, November 14, 1983 -page 6 
Vieweoint 

Reagan and East Asia's 'Yankee spirit' 
A~ Prc:~idc:n! Rt·agan clo~t·~ out his first )Tt a:)rogatnl trip to Asia as an "amha~sador of peatT and pro~perity."' the implications of his trip rake:~ on t;tr more: importance: than the politil"al hc:nt·llt~ lw em expect to gain. With no specitk goab of major breakthrough!'> l'X­pennl, Reagan·~ trip h;Jrllly ~c:c:m~ more: than a goodwill tour aimed at Mrengthc:ning tic:!'> with our Far b~tc:rn .tllil·s. <>r docs it' 
Francis J. James 
Eye on the East 
lh·ag;m 'pokl· of tlw need ti>r tht· l"nitnl ~tate:~ to li11·m ~trongt-r bomb with Asian na­tion~ which ··have: tht· Yankee: spirit we: once: ctllnl our own." lndtTd. ont· nn·d!'> only to look at the: ~uccc:~!'>ful ami rapidly expanding t-conomie~ of such coumrie~ as Taiwan, South 1\.ort·a. Singaport·. Malaysia, llongkong, and Japan to sec: that the: Pacific-Asian rim truly is booming. 
What ha~ htTn the: key to East Asia's 'uccc:!'>s, a ~un'l's~ which promptc:d leading c:conomisb and journalisb to conclude: that East Asia is whc:rc: it's at' 
Two major rc:asons account fi>r the: phc:nomc:nal succc:ss of the: rc:gion. First, private: t·ntc:rprisc: and frc:c: markets have: hc:en ahlc: to devc:lop free: from government control and involvemc:nt. The: govc:rnmc:nt's role has ht-en to maintain and c:nfi>rcc: an optimum c:n­vironment for economic growth. Secondly, tht· intrarc:gional trade, invc:stmc:nt and integrated policies of the: countries enable thc:m to hc:lp thc:msc:lves by becoming more sc:lf-sufticic:nt and indt·pt·ndent. For example, ASEAN, the: Association ofSoutheast Asian Na­tions, provides an intc:grated military anti­Communist alliance while the Pacific Economic Community givc:s shape to the idea of regional c:conomic cooperation. 

The f(>cus of all this growing ~elf­confidence: in East Asia is Japan. Years ago, "Made: in Japan" markings stood for cheap workmanship and poor quality. Nowadays it stands for technologically-advanced quality products. !low many of us own Sony Walkmans, Pan;t~onic TV's or Sc:iko watches? It's gl'tting to the point where .'vlitsuhishi and llonda sound just as American as Chevrolet or Ford. 
The: "Madt· in Japan" labels no longer stand for what "Made: in Taiwan" possibly now represents (although Taiwan is working on its image) and the: l :s and Europe arc adopting increasingly defensive attitudes toward Japan and the: burgeoning newly industrializing countries of East Asia. The fact is, Japan is tur· ning out superior products. and instituting quotas or increasing tariffs is not the way to solve this increasingly serious problem. 
The: World Bank projects that by the end of the century, Japan's GNP will equal three quarters of the llnited States'. What drives this 
ND and South Bend: worlds apart 
'oouth Bc:nd. Ind. b the suhjt-ct of.many joke~ and a grt·at deal ofahuM·. As students, wt· like to point out its ~mall size and lack of thing~ to do. A~itk from acknowlnlging that Notre Dame b locatnlnear. IJtllnol in South Bend, the admini~tration largely ignores it~ exbtc:ntT. 
Randy Fahs 
Monday analysis 

No. 'oouth Bend i~ not the mo~t wonderful place to liH· in tlw world. l{calbtkally. it i~ an aging citv that i~ being ~qutTied hy the douhk jeopard\ of an t-conomic rt'lT~sion .md a n>mmt-rci;d ha,t· "hkh ha~ been on tht· <kdinc liJr .1 long time:. In otlwr word~. there i~ a great deal of room for impro\Tmt·nt. 
It i~ a tragnh. though, that one oftht·major group~ that could hdp South lknd get hack on it~ fi.Tt d1oo~es in~tt·ad to turn away. Notre: Dame ha~ gotten involvnl in VlTY few things ami usually in tht· most minimal ways. 
The htculty ami staff live in the area. arc: in tum: with ib problems and in some cases strive to improve its quality of liti:. The stu­dents, espt·cially the vast majority who live on campus, interact very little: with the com­munitv as a whok. Some individuals are in­volved in community service: projects or internships. I 'nfortunatc:ly. the numhc:r is quite: small whc:n compared to the: total amount of studc:nts. 
Bv t;tr the coldest shoulder is turned to 
Smtih Bend by the: I 'nivnsity's highest offi­
cials. Whc:thcr thi~ happens hc:cause few of 
the TrusttT~ lin· in the area. or because ofthe: 
traditional suspicion of the: "outside world," 
the rdation~hip ~wings from uninvolved to 
adversarial. 
Both the: city and the: l"nivc:rsity benefit from c:ach other's prt·sence. but this relation­ship should he t·xpanded so that eac:h side: can gain even further. The city of South Bend could prospn from Notrt· Damc:'s prestige, rc:sourtTS and expntisc. Notre: Dame could gain from increasc:d experic:ntial learning and a greater sense of hc:ing a part of the com· munity as a whok. 

South Bend is a struggling community which nc:eds an infusion of investment, intel· lc:ctual advice: and morale:. Notre Dame: can hc:lp in these areas by working more closely with the: city. The University could usc: the in· fluc:nce of its endowment and prestige to bring dc:vc:lopmc:nt and invc:stmc:nt instead of only sports fans. The students remain a largely untapped resource to help the city grow. 
The llniversity should tear down its "walls" 
and become more: open to the community at 
large. This could end the adversarial relation· 
ship and replace it with one that is more 
nunually hc:ndkial. 
Students could get more "hands on ex· perknce at the: same: time they lc:arn to view South Bc:nd as a place to "live and grow" rather than a place to "use and abuse" for four years. 
Many other universitit-s and colleges, hoth public and private.knov. the profits ofbeing more: fully integrated into their surrounding communitic:s. The: elfort required on the part of Notre Dame would be minimal and the;:,.,pos­sible hendits would be better than the present relationship. 
country of I I 0 million, void of any significant natural resources, and now the third most powerful economic force in the world' Wasn't this the place that lay in shambles less 
than 40 years ago' After years of studying the: "American success model" attention has shifted to Japanese management and ad­ministration ethos and its industrial systt·m. 
The Japanese and others of East, South Asia do indt·ed have that "Yankee spirit" Re.agan talked about and they seem to be taking it one hettc:r. Euro-Asian Business Rez•ieu• rc:ports 
that the: epict:nter ofour world is quickly shift· ingfrom the Atlantic to the: Pacific, while \'fes· tern lc:aders continue: to ignore: this cr'tical evolution or pay lip-service to its conse­
quc:nces. To ignore this fact will have: serious repercussions, for U.S. economic intt:rc:sts in the: region now exceed those: in any other region in the world, including Europe:. 
p • 0 • BoxQ Night football 
DearEditor: 
I was very upset to find that the University 
has decided to plant trees on the lawn just 
south of Stepan Center. WHY! This is one of 
the few lighted areas on the cast end of 
campus, and it was used nearly every night for 
ti>otball games or other activities. 
llntilnow the: University sc:c:ms to have had 
a keen interest in night football. Now they 
seem more concerned with making the: 
campus look beautiful for all the: alumni than 
letting us enjoy it while we're: here. 
I'm paying enough money to come here 
without having to hire: MUSCO for my late 
night entertainment. 
Andy Keusal 

Editor's note: The appearance of letters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. All letters are subject to editing and become the property ofThe Observer. 
Campus comments: What is the most difficult major? 

think engint-ering. espc:cially t'ht·mical and dt·ctrical. prc:st·nts the: most intcnst· courSl· study hert·. I know quite a flow c:nginc:c:ring majors and all of them seem to he the most overwhelmed with thl'ir work. 
John Stackow Pre-med Classof'84 
The hardest major at Saint Mary's would ht· nursing. Nurses are in· volvnl in so much work in the: hospi­tal. 
Michele Manion Economics/Government Class or '85 

Engineering, because all the: fresh­man intending to major in it seem to he: having dc:finite prohlc:ms. 
Pat Griffen 
Undecided 
Classof'87 

Engineering involves a lot of hours of work with calculations and ap· plications. It's a tough field to he in, hut ifyou want a guaranteed job, it's the only way to go. 
Maria Murphy 
freshman Year Classof'87 

Due: to the experiences ofone of my roommates, I ti:c:l that physics is the: toughest major, since: students mu~t take accelc:rated courses in physics, as well as chemistry and calculus. 
Portia Amberg Pre-law Classof'84 
~=The Observer 
I'() /lux(!. \ufrelhtlltt'.l.\ 16'i5(J (.!/'}) .!3'J-'i303 
!he (Jh.~t'l'l'l'l' i~ the indc:pt'JHlcnt new~p.tper puhlhhnl hv the ~tudcnt~ of the l ni· \Tr~itl of :'liotrc l>amt· du Ltt· and <,aint .\lan·, <.ollegc: It doc~ not lll'lT~~arih reflect the policiD of the admini~tration of either in~titution. Tlw nt·w~ h reported a~ ac­curate!\ .utd a~ ohjn·tin·h as po~~ihk I 'n~ignnleditorials rq1re~l·nt the opinon of a majoritl ofthe l'llitoriall\o,trd. <·ommt·ntarie~.luter~. and tlw ln~ilk Column prc~nll t ht· ,·ie\\ ~of 1lwir .lUI hor~. ( ·olumn ~pace i~ ;1\·ailahk co all member' ofI he<"< HnmunitL ;md the lr<T t·xprn~ion of,·an ing opinion~ on Gllllpu~. through ktter~. i~ l"IKour.tgnl. 

Editorial Board DepartmentManagers 
Fditur-in-Chie( ... David Dzinlztc .l!ti!Wging Fditor ....... .\largarn Fosmoc /Jusiness Jlanoger ...............<:hri~topher <h1 l'n Fxecu/it'<' Ftlilor ............................... Paul .\lc(iinn Con/miter... . ....... Akx S,ril,-,,~ Seu·s l:ditor.... . ..................... Bob \"omkrhdde .-ltlt•ertising .\ll/1/(/ger .... ... ._lt·anic Poole .\'eu·s Ftlitor .. ................................\lark\\ orschch Circulation .\lmwger. ..................... .\larl\ .\liotto Sllint .lltli),.S Fdilor ................. Anne .\lonastn~ki .\)•stems .llanager... ....... 1\.t·vin \\ illiams .\j)()r/s Fditur .... ....... ..... . ...... .\lidJ;td Sullivan Compusitirm .llanager.... .......Suzanne l.a < roix Features l:ditor.. ..... Sarah llamilton PIJoto Ftlilur.. .......................................Scott Bown 
Founded November 3. 1966 
Sho1,vcase 
Monday, November 14, 1983 -page 7 
The grim r~eaper, an oreo cookie and the flying nun ­

Beaux Arts goes black and white 
E
by Amy Stephan 
they dressed as everything from a Beaux Arts B;>ll, and I thought the newspaper to a double-stufforeo costumes were so much better thisfeatures staffwriter cookie to fit the theme, black and time and the amount ofpeople made white all night. it much better." ven death was living it up Friday "I like the idea ofjust having black Although most participants fit the night at the Beaux Arts Ball. and white," said sophomore black and white theme, there were a 
The grim reaper, a couple of Dorothy Doran. "It looked kind of few who dared to be different. One bunnies, a mad scientist, and a wide classy." woman dressed entirely in red, assortment ofpriests, nuns and "The costumes were very costumed as a non-conformist. Arabs converged in the architecture creative," commented sophomore The "Kinetics" kept the crowd building for one ofthe most bizarre Eileen Chang. "Some were so good I dancing far into the night with fast­and crowded events on campus, the couldn't tell ifthey were male or paced music. The band tried to join Beaux Arts Ball. female." in the spirit ofthe event, even 
Few partygoers took stock in Paul Not evenJaws-or a good imita­though they weren't dressed in Simon's beliefthat "Everything tion there of-could scare the black and white. Neither could they looks worse in black and white," as crowds away. enjoy the sardine experience that 
Students braved the cold and most participants did, because they stood in line for as long as an hour, performed on a relatively un­(thus receiving good practice for crowded stage. They did keep the this week's pre-registration). Once spirit alive, nonetheless. 
inside, the crowds hardly lessened. Fourth-year student Thorn Brad­Elbow movement on the dance floor ley said he enjoyed the ball because, was severely limited. Few seemed to "it was nice to have people acting 
mind the lack ofspace, though, be­crazy for no reason at all." cause the dancing continued until The Beaux Arts Ball once again after 4 am. proved itself to be one ofthe most 
"I enjoyed it a lot, but it was really unique parties on campus. crowded," said Rob Seienkewicz, · Just ask the flying nun ... sophomore. "This was my third 





Hope returns to. ND 
played in seven Broadway produc­John Steinbeck once said ofHope, Tickets are still available for 
tions, done 480 televison shows, "This man drives himselfand is Hope's Notre Dame performance. plus numerous guest appearaces and driven. It is impossible to see how he Prices are S11.50 for the main floor, 
by Sarah Hamilton 
jeCJ tures staffwriter 
I,000 radio shows, including guest 

T
can do so much, can cover so much platform and loge; Sl0. 50 for the he man has accumulated 45 ground, can work so hard and be so lower arena; and $7.50 for the bleac­
appearances. He ha~ made 62 mo­

England in 1903 and moved to tion pictures and appeared in I 3 effective. There's a man. There is hers. Box Office locations include
honorary doctorates to date. Cleveland, Ohio at the age offour) 
others. "Mr. Entertainment" has really a man!"
Scholarships in his name have been he has received this nation's highest Gate I 0 ofthe ACC, Sears in the Uni­
received more than a thousand Apparently there are many who
established at Southern Methodist award, the Congressional Gold versity Park Mall, Michigan City and awards and citations for his 
t:niversity. New Mexico State llni­Medal. President Kennedy be­are in agreement with Steinbeck. Elkhart, Robertson's in South Bend humanitarian and professional ef­
versil). Bethel College, and the U.S. stowed this upon him and called And with good re2Son. and the Town and Country Mall. 
forts.

Marine Corps in New York, to name him, "America's most prized ambas­a few. In addition, he has bet n sador ofgood will throughout the · A Fatty Arbuckle Revue was the awarded su<;h titles as Honorary world." In keeping with this epithet, scene of Hope's show business Chancellor at Southern Florida Col­Hope has entertained heads ofstate debut. He performed a dancing act lege, Soldier in Greasepaint from St. around the world, including com­with George Byrne. Since then he 
Mary's in California, and Real Black mand performances for Britain's has gone on to conquer all five major Bear from the University of Maine. Royal Family. In June, 1976, he was show business media: vaudeville. He has written and published eight made an Honorary Commander of stage, motion pictures, radio and books. the Order of the British Empire televison. Despite these triumphs Yet. Boh Hope never attended (CBE). hy appointment ofQueen Hope reminds people that once he college. Elizabeth. was a song and dance man who had He may have entertained and to take second billing to Siamese
Hope began performing on col­been honored by international twins and trained seals. There was alege campuses in the 1950s. Over 
leaders and royalty, nonetheless, he bleak time in his life in which he was

the years, he has found the n:sponse speaks for and to the heart of the a new comic in vaudeville in 
from college students the closest common man. No moment can Chicago and there were no
thing to the joy he experienced in capture this better than when he bookings.
playing for Gis in this countly and overseas. Currently, Hope is touring stepped before American ser­"I was in debt; I had holes in my six universities collecting m Iterial vicemen. abroad and sick for home shoes and all I was eating was dough­
and quipped, "Hi. fellow tourists!" 

for a television special to air Wed­nuts and coffee. Then I bumped into nesday. Nov. 23. 8-10 p.m. EST on Hope has been entertaining ser­a old friend who bought me a meal. I NBC. had forgotten whether you cut meat
vicemen since 1941. Throughout Among the colleges Hope is visit­with a knife or drink it with a spoon."
World War II and the Korean Con­ing and featuring in the spec 1al, is flict, he traveled more than a million Hope has definitely come along none other than Notre Dame. The miles performing for more than I 0 way. Besides the millions ofser­Irish will host Hope tomorrcw eve­million troops. Following his 22nd vicemen and veterans, he entertains, ning at 8 in the ACC. Accompanying overseas show, Hope announced and the regular performaces, Hope "the King ofComedy" will h~ that this would he his last Christmas does between I 0 and I 5 college Dionne Warwick and former Irish show. But Christmas: 1973. and each shows annually. To further stretch quarterhack_Joe Montana. one since then, has found Hope this unbelievable schedule, Hope 
Although llope is not a native of playing veterans hospitals. plays in an average oftwo benefit the l'nited States, (he was horn in Besides USO shows. Hope has performances per week. 

--·-! 

Sports Briefs 
Basketballticketsare still available. A limited number of non-renewable bleacher season tickets are now on sale for the 1983-84 men's campaign. They will be on sale through Nov. 16 at Gate 10 of the ACC which is open from 9 am. until 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday. -The Observer 
Quarterback Ken Cotter's touchdown pass to 
Brian Steber led Stanford Hall into the lnterhall Football Champion­ship, as the Studs downed Howard 7-0. The win means that Stanford, 5-0-1, will meet defending champion Dillon Hall, 6-0-0, next Sunday in Notre Dame Stadium (weather permitting)-Dillon defeated rival Flanner Hall, I 0-0, to earn their spot in the finals. Stanford used a strong running attack behind backs Tony Dawson and Jim Cleven­ger. George Marget scored on a twelve-yard run for Dillon's touch­down. The Big Red defense, unscored upon this season, notched their second win over Flannt:r this year. For Stanford, it was their fifth shutout in six games this season. Chris DeVito led the defensive charge for the Studs by contributing to four sacks. Meanwhile, the Big Red ofDillon has won twenty consecutive games and seeks their 
third straight championship. -The Observer 
• • • Women 

continuedfrom page 12 
made her case even stronger with her performance last night. She scored 12 of the Blue team's 25 points, while pulling down three rebounds, blocking one shot, and stealing a ball. 
Fellow juniors Laura Dougherty and Ruth Kaiser appear to be starters at guard and forward, respectively. The other guard and forward spots are up in the air, however. Sopho­more Trena Keys, who had nine points for the White team, is getting some competition from junior Carrie Bates, who had four points, one assist, and two blocked shots. Freshmen Lavetta Willis and Mickey Skieresz are also getting a look. Wil­lis played the entire game and scored six points, while Skieresz had two points and two rebounds. 
Ebben, freshman Vonnie Thompson, and sophomore Denise Basford are fighting for the other guard spot. Thompson and Basford are both point guards, while the tall­er Ebben is more effective as a shooter. 
DiStanislao was pleased for the most part about the scrimmage, but she did see a lot of room for im­provement. 
"We need to move the ball bet­ter," she explained. "We're also overhandling the ball, and we're not making the best judgement deci­sions. 
"(The fact that the score was low) doesn't surprise me. As often hap­pens, the defense is ahead of the of­fense. Defense is a lot less complex." 
Between now and the November 22 opener against Marquette, DiS­tanislao will decide who will start, but, in her system, starting does not mean that much. She substitutes freely and many players get a chance (() play. The scrimmage may have given her some idea of who can do what, but she will get her real answer once the real season begins. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST 
Mrs Bedford 
288-2107 

Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m .. Man thru Fr< 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. Reasonable rates Call 287­5162 
TYPING 277-8534 after 5 30 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -PLEASE CALl PAUL McGINN AT 277-catl1 OR 239­5313. 
SLOW DEATH is in need of funny people 
to ao•n the staff When our n-building •• comptete. we will all have new offtces wrth electriC penc11 sharpeners and shapely secretanes and maybe even Damsh modem lurniture. The sky s the Wmrt lor th1s new publiCation. so ~ you are at all •nlerested. call8557, 1545, or 1601 Ask for Chloe 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND AREA NOV. 18 IF YOU CAN HELP CALL 7911 ASK FOR JEANEITE. 
Programming Contrect programm~ng. tutoring. or con­sullallon available at fa~rly reasonable rates Call Tom or Bruce at 277·4851 after 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST GOLD TIMEX WATCH Lost about I month ago PLEASE call375 1 
Lost grey scarf w1th buttons 1n sectiOn 31 at the Pitt game Please help me hnd n before 11 turns really cold. 284-4391 
HELPII I LOST A GOLD MEDALLION IN THE ACt ON MON NOV 8 IT HAS THE INITIALS M.L A. ENGRAVED ON THE BACK AND SAYS FLORIDA CHAM· PIONS AROUND THE YELLOW STONE THE HIGH SCHOOL NAME ENGRAVED ON IT IS CARDINAL NEWMAN. PLEASE HELP ME OUT BY CALLING MARILU AT 6722 PLEASE. IT HAS A LOT OF SEN­
TIMENTAL VALUE THANKYOU CALL 67221 LOST! A BLUE BACKPACK LAST WEEK SOME TIME. IN IT WAS A GREEN FOL­DER AND NOTEBOOK MY NAME IS ON THE OUTSIDE POCKET ROBERT B NEWHOUSE I REALLY NEED THESE BACK. REWARD PLEASE CALL BOB AT 3641 OR RETURN TO 405 MORRIS­SEY THANKS 
LOST-SMC GOLD CLASS RING wnh LAB 85 1nscrip!100 If you know ANY­THING. PLEASEf! call284-5176 
FOUND OUTSIDE MADELEVA HALL­gold pendant wrth 1nrtial1 MWM and Hap­PY 21st on theback-can to cla•m 284-4389 
HELPI CAN'T SEEf LOST -PAIR OF GLASSES. "GEMINI" IN BLACK CASE (EYE CARE DOC­TORS, WICKUFFE, OHIO). BROWN FRAMES, CLEAR PLASTIC LENSES. LOST 10/19 POSIBL Y IN ENGINEER­
ING AUDITORIUM CALL JOHN 3254 
FOUND: HAND KNIT SWEATER ON PATH NEAR MUSIC BLDG. ON TUI!:S.. DAY, 11/1 CALL277-3443 
II you lost a watch in front of Haggar Cen­ter. I have~ Call Lrsa x5250 
lost last wee!< gray Pierre card1n 1acket 1n erther cush•ng or bus ad. building. please return. i am freeZing. bad reward call 3549 
LOST HELP• I LOST MY UMBRELLA IT WAS A BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE WITH INITIALS RPM ON THE HANDLE. I LOST IT IN ROOM 127 NSH IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMATION PLEASE CALL RICH 8731 THANX 
FOUND French tam between Frtzpatr<ck and Snrte. Call6826. to cla1m. 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
I lost my Hewlen· Packard calculator 1n the Eng1neer1ng Computer Room on Wed­nesday, Nov 9 ~ has biQ 1n1l1als of OS 1n the roghtcorner lffound. call Dav1d !.1277­1326. Reward oHered. No questiOns. 
MAKE $$$. I lost my HP·4 1 C calculator in e•ther the EG audnonum or Lafortune Thursday the 1Oth If I don't have 11. I cant do my homewo rkl If found call Oom1mc 1550 lOST. WALTHAM GOLD WATCH. Great­ly appreciated 1f returned. Please call Jen­nifer Payne at 3570. 
FOR RENT 

FURNISHED HOUSE. CLOSE TO N.D. GOOD AREA 277-3604 
GARAGE 2 BLOCKS FROM N D. 277­3604. 
APT UTILITIES PAID 288-0955. 
TWO PEOPLE BUNGALOW PRIVATE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 288­0955/277-3604 

WANTED 

3 RIDES NEEDED TO PITTSURGH FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. LEAVING THE 22ND OR 23RD. WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES,ETC. CALl VIC AT 239-7471 OR 283-3406. PLEASE LEAVE MESSAGE. 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGMNG -CAN LEAVE ANYTIME -CALL PAUL McGINN AT 239-5313 OR 277-4851. 
DESPERATELY NEED AIDE TO BUF· FALO FOR THANKSGIVING-PLEASE CALL PAT AT 8423 
HELP WANTED-BRUNO S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER. CALL 277-4519 OR 288-3320 
RIDERS NEEDED ONE-WAY TO BOS­TON. Leav1ng 11/18 Call G•b-1682-after 11 p.m. 
Need nde to MD./D.C. area. can leave Mon.. 1 1/21. Andy at 1020 
NEED TIX FOR AIR FORCE DAN at 234­
6496. 
MILWAUKEE-Wise Club Thanksg•v•ng bus. $1 6. 75 round trip. Depart Wed Nov 
23. t 30. Return Sun 1700. S•gn-up Mon­day Nov 14. 6.30-7 30 basement LaFortune 

\ltlml.l\. '\c>\l'll1ht.:r I •-19H5 -,pagcH 
~------------------------­
• • • Football 
continued/rom page 12 
inches. lt I had a chance to do it over, 
I would have called another play." 
Although Steve Beuerlein was 
having an outstanding day passing 
(14-of-20, 257 yards), Saturday was 
not his day as a runner. As a result of 
his getting stopped, Notre Dame lost 
an almost certain field goal, or pos­
sibly another crack at a touchdown 
ifa pass had gone incomplete. 
It was the third-and-one play late 
in the game that had a more direct 
result on the game, however, as it 
put the Lions in the position to win 
the game in the last seconds after it 
appeared that they had fumbled 
away their chances with less than 
four minutes left. 
Pinkett, who had earlier in the 
game become only the third Notre 
Dame back in history to rush for 
more than I,000 yards; took the 
handoff and swept right on a play 
that had worked for him all day long 
-that is, until this play. 
PSU linebacker Rogers Alexander, 
coming on a blitz from the side, hit 
Pinkett's lead blocker and pushed 
him back into Pinkett who had no 
chance to get around the outside. He 
was dumped for a four-yard loss, for­
cing the Irish to punt the ball away. 
When Blair Kiel shanked a punt that 
went out-of-bounds at midfield with 
53 seconds left, the Lions and Strang 
had an opportunity that they did not 
let slip away. 
On a second-and-five from the Irish 45, Strang found his tight end Dean DiMidio wide open down the middle for a 36-yard gain to the nine. Two plays later, Strang was being mobbed by his jubilant teammates and the Fiesta Bowl officials were thinking about the matchups that 
could have been. 
It is ironic that the Notre Dame of­fense's inability to pick up a yard­and-a-halfwas such a factor. After all, the offense's performance was its best ofthe last few years. Pinkett and Beuerlein had their best games as 

Notre Dame players. Beuerlein's 
performance was especially im­
pressive, considering how poor he 
looked against Pittsburgh. He 
benefited from an outstanding per­
formance by his offensive line, as he 
had a great deal of time to find his 
receivers. 
Pinkett, too, benefited from some 
excellent blocking, but his great 
speed proved invaluable as he was 
able to race around the Lions defen: 
ders. He scored all four Notre Dame 
touchdowns, the most ever scored 
by one person against Penn State. He 
also became only the fourth person 
to ever rush for more than 200 yards 
against the Lions. 
Still, the efforts ofthe two players 
was not enough to overcome the in­
ability of the Notre Dame defense to 
stop PSU, who only punted twice the 
entire game. 
"I think about what more could I 
have done for the team," said 
Pinkett. "We may have an outside 
shot at a bowl, but this hurts. I still 
can't believe we lost." 
While the offense came through 
on all but those two important plays, 
the defense only came through 
once, which was not enough. That 
once came with less than four 
minutes remaining in the game, 
when Tony Furjanic crunched the Lions' prized freshman, D.). Dozier, who coughed up the ball to corner­back Pat Ballage. 
The turnover was wasted when the offense could not come up with the first down on third-and-one. 
Other than that big play, however, the defense could not stop the Lions' well-rounded attack. Dozier and jon Williams, although ineffective on the ground in the first half; had great success on screen passes. Several times, they caught the ball with three blockers and no defenders in the area. In the second half; they also began to have luck on the ground. Dozier finished the game with 94 yards. 
Meanwhile, Strang picked apart the Irish secondary. He completed 16 of his 24 passes, including seven to All-American Kenny Jackson who scored two touchdowns and had a great deal of success when covered man-to-man by an Irish cornerback. 
"I was pleased that Doug had such a good day," said PSU coach joe Paterno. "He did a great job at the end against the wind. He was a big­league quarterback out there today." 
In short, it was a battle of two ef­fective offenses against two inef­fective defenses. Penn State won the game because it scored the first points and the la~t points of the 
game, and because it came up with the big plays when it had to. 
Maybe there was an omen of things to come, and a symbol of things past, during the Lions' first drive of the game. In the last play of the drive, which was culminated by a 37-yard field goal by Nick Gan­citano, Kenny Jackson fumbled on a reverse and the ball bounced around 
on the ground as several Irish players tried to get control of it. Finally, Strang fell on the ball, allow­ing PSU to get its field goal. 
The same thing has been happen­
ing all year to the Irish. The 
opportunies have been there, but 
the ball has bounced away from 
Notre Dame all year. 
Or maybe, the ball has not 
bounced away, but has been 
dropped like the near­
interception in the end zone that 
gave the home team three more 
points. 
Actually, it is probably a combina­
tion ofthe two. 
Now that the Fiesta Bowl officials have left the Notre Dame locker­room until next year, maybe the ball will finally stop bouncing aw'<ly from the Irish. 
PART TIME EMPLOYEE WANTED TO PUT UP POSTERS ON CAMPUS NOW AND DURING 1983-84. 2-10 HOURS/MONTH. $4.50/HA. SEND NAME. ADDRESS, PHONE CLASS YR.. ETC. TO MS. NISTICO. 152 TEMPLE ST. 701. NEW HAVEN. CT. 06510. 
FOR SALE 
House lor sale one m11e north ol campus Good neoghborhood.good tax shelter for parents. 3 Bed-1/2 acre Call days 256­561 1 or mghts 233-3997 
FOR SALE A DELCO CAR STEREO CALL 283-8046 BEST OFFER 
LIKE NEW DP 3900 DELUXE CHROME MULTI-PURPOSE LEG LIFT INCLINE BENCH WITH COMPLETE BARBELL AND DUMBELL SET -$75. CALL MARILYN 6634 

TICKETS 

NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S--WILL PAY $$$ BECAUSE ITS NOT MY MONEY KEN 1601 
Need 3 or 4 GAs lor A1r Force. Call Steve at 232-0550. 
AWK--NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S, CALL TED AT 2P~-01 37 
FOR SALE-2 AIR FORCE STUDENT TIXS-BEST OFFER-CALL 284-4389 
Desperately need 4-6 A1r Force GAs for New Jersey relat•vesll' Call C1ndy (5195) atSMC 
AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE.272-8306 
NEEDED 2 GAs FOR AIR FORCE. CALL CHARLENE AT 2909 
SELLING 2 STU TIX AIR FORCE HIG­HEST BID BY WED 12AM 426t AFTER 10:30 
The Observer Lafortune office accepts classified advertisin8 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, l!ither in per­son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per day. 
NEED AT LEAST 6 GA TIX FOR AIR FORCE. CALL CATHY AT 6773. 
NEED 2 A. F. STU. TIX--3312. 

PERSONALS 
FIDDLER IS COMING I 

A TRADITION FIDDLER ON THE ROOF! 
FIDDLER ON THE ROOF TICKETS ON SALE SOON WATCH FOR DETAILS OR LOOK FOR ADVERTISEMENT 
BRUNOS PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER CALL 277-451 9 OR 288-3320. 
You know you want to. So why not? Kitchen Gothic SMC Little Theatre 8 00 p.m. Nov. 17.18.19 
Help! Need a ride to C•nmnati forT-break. Will share expenses. Please call Kristin 7570. 
31 I LOVE YOU 71 

Dear Hel. Thanks lor all of your support. T-DAY1snotfaraway loveya.M1ke 
BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY SENIORS! Don I Forget 3RD ANNUAL BLOCK PARTY FRI. NOV. 18 3.30-6 30 IN ACC Food. Beverages. MusiC COME & HAVE SOME FUN' BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
LDsl in engineering computer room. Call David at 277-1326. No questions asked. Reward offered. 
.......... t ............................................... . The Asexual is No Morel 
BANANA JANNA: Happy B1rthday you Russian Vixen you!!!! Have a great one!!!! Love. Carole and Manpat 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS LADIES OF COLUMBUS MEETING TONIGHT 7 PM 
Muddy Waters. Bo Diddley. Enc Clapton. Stevl8 Ray Vaughan The All New Uncle Toms Blues Revl8w Every Monday N•ght 1 1 00 PM Wsnd-AM 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY MARY SIEGER• LOVE. M2 
ALCOHOL COMMIITEE FORUM. Ton1ght 7 30PM. Holy Cross 
BOMB AIR FORCE! Throw paper airplanes: game 11me Sat Sponsored Ar­nold Alr Socl8ty On sale-Dimng Hall$ to St Jude s Children's Hasp GO IRISH! 
Big Brothera/ BIQ S1sters •• collecting Air Force tix . ~ you -uld like to donate a GA or Student tlckal, cal11 077 or 1902 An N.D. gane I• an Incredible thrill lor lhe"llltln". 
Bellalian Bellal•an Be ltahan Find out how Monday Nov 14 7p.m. LaFortune Little Theatre ltahan Club Meeting 
Saint Mary'aR.A. Applicants 
!!REMEMBER/I 
Br1ef1ng Meetings Wed . Nov 16 or Thurs.. Nov 17. 6 30 p.m Reg1na S Lounge 
HEY K. MULLANEY THE BEST IS YET TO COME. SO CHEER UPI K and J all the way -Luv your awesome room1e 
Georgl8 Anne Geyer 
ForeiQn Affairs as told by a lemale 
ForeiQn Correspondent 8 00 p.m 1n Car· 
roll Hall to"'ght 
DesperatiOn shows its ugly lace In many ways. No one can escape the times we live in. The answers are so simple, And we all know where to look. But ft's easier just to avoid the question. 
-Kansas 


The Observer Illini go to Rose Bowl, Michiga1t-OSU next 
Domino's Pizza is t1e best Coke available choice. Just 2 slic•~s are 16 oz. bottles more nutritious, lower in 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.
fat and higher in pi'Otein 
Umlted delivery area. than either a taco l)r ©1983 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
cheeseburger. 
Nutritional information from: Table 1. So give us a call and put Nutritional Analyses of Fast Foods. 
United States Agricu~ure Research 
us to the test. Service. 
r·····-·-···--·--·--··-, 
Mondays only. Only $6.99 for a 16" 
1-item pizza plus 2 16 oz. bottles of Coke. One coupon per pizza Expires: 11-30-83 
$6.!~9 
Fast, Free Delivery~ 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center
Ill. 
Phone: 277-2151 

ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 

interested in 
ARTS AND LETTERS 
LONDON PROGRAM 
Tuesday, November 15, 1983 7:30pm, Lib. Aud. 
Applications will be distributed and selection 
procedures will be explained at this meeting. 
Applications will also be available until 
November 22, 1983 in 133 O'Shag. 

-, 

Monday, November 14, 1983 -page 9 
Allen Pinkett set records, made four touchdoums, Penn State. See Mike Sullivan's story on page 8. and inspired the Irish in an exciting battle against 
• • • NFL roundup 
continuedfrompage 10  Chargers quarterback Ed Luther riddled the Dallas secondary for 340  YorkJets. The Bills moved 75-yards in five plays in the last minute ofthe  
victory. "It feels good to see so many guys and fans happy." Besides the TD passes, Houston scored on rookie Larry Moriarty's 3­yard run and field goals of4 7 and 21 yards by Florian Kempf. Running back Earl Campbell, angered last week when he sat out more than half  y t ards as he completed 26 of4 3 at­tempts with one interception and one touchdown. It was his best day as a pro. The victory snapped a four-game Chargers losing streak as San Diego increased its record to 4-7. Dallas, 9­2, was sparked by quarterback Dan­ game for the winning touchdown. Bill Kenney passed for one touch­down and ran for another to pace Kansas City over Cincinnati, while Steve Grogan ran for one touch­down and set up another with a 44­yard completion to lead New  
the game, rushed for 107 yards against Detroit. The Lions relied on Billy Sims, who scored on a 1-yard dive and helped set up a 35-yard field goal by Ed Murray and a 10-3 Detroit lead in the second quarter. Detroit also had a 17-10 lead when quarterback Gary Danielson threw three yards to JamesJones.  ny White, who threw two fourth-quarter TD passes, the second to Billy Jo Dupree with 8:13 remaining. St. Louis quarterback Neil Lomax and Roy Green teamed up for four touchdown passes -three coming in the second quarter -and Neil O'Donoghue booted a 33-yard field goal as the Cardinals edged Seattle. Lomax outdueled Seattle's Dave  England past Miami. Green Bay moved into a first­place tie in the National Con­ference's Central Division as Lynn Dickey passed for two touchdowns, Jan Stenerud kicked two field goals and Greg Boyd sacked Minnesota quarterback Steve Oils for a safety.  
"We feel terrible that it had to  hrew  three  touchdown  Mike Pruitt  ran  for  two short  
happen to us," Detroit Coach Monte Clark said about giving up Houston's  passes.  touchdowns and the Cleveland defense turned in its first shutout  
first  victory  after  10  losses  this .  Two touchdown passes by Jim  since 1974 as the Browns blanked  
season. "We both played some good  McMahen an&-Bob Thomas' 22-yard  Tampa Bay, which scored its first  
football, but when they needed to  field  goal boosted Chicago past  victory last Sunday. The Buccaneers  
make  the  big play they did,  and  Philadelphia.  Thomas'  kick,  with  alS<> lost running backJames Wilder,  
when we needed to make the big  12:24  remaining  in  the  game,  who suffered two broken ribs and  
play we didn't."  snapped a 14-14 tie.  will miss several games.  
In a late game, rookie Derrie Nel­ 
son  returned  a  blocked  punt  21  Joe Cribbs grabbed  a  pass from  Cliff Stoudt threw two  touch­ 
yards for  a  touchdown  as  the San  Joe Ferguwn at the 5-yard line and  down passes as Pittburgh remained  
Diego Chargers built up a 24-6 lead,  fell  into the end  zone  with  22  unbeaten on the road and extended  
then  held  off  a  Dallas  Cowboys  seconds left  to boost the penalty­ the NFL's longest current winning  
comeback for a 24-23 victory.  plagued Buffalo Bills over the New  streak to seven games.  

ByJOE MOOSHD.. 
Associated Press 
Illinois officially clinched the Rose Bowl bid with a 49-21 whomp­ing of Indiana, but the season is far from over for Coach Mike White and his charges. 
The fifth-ranked Illini, whc could climb a notch this week in 1:he As­S<>ciated Press poll, have a Sa.turday date at Northwestern, where-a vic­tory would make Illinois the first team in Big Ten history to defeat all the other teams in the same season. 
Then there's the Rose Bowl reputation to maintain. Illinois was the first team to represent the Big Ten when the present pan was signed in 1946 and the Illini won the 1947 game by thrashing UCLA 45­14. 
The 1951 Illini took a 9-0-1 
record west and crushed Stanford ' 
40-7 in the 1952 classic and the 
1963 team returned with a 17-7 tri­
umph over Washington in the 1964 
contest. 
With Illinois celebrating Satur­
day's win, Michigan and Ohio State 
are preparing for the Big One this 
week. 
Usually, the winner of this game lands in the Rose Bowl, but not this year. Still, there's a sizable reward awaiting the winner in a possible bid to the Cotton Bowl or the Sugar Bowl. The winner will have a 9-2 record, with the 8-3 loser going to a lesser bowl. 
Iowa, which will wind up with a 9-2 record following an expected victory over Minnesota, unfor­tunately has to take a back seat to the winner of the Ohio State-Michigan game. But the Hawkeyes are being eyed for a number of bowls, includ­ing the prestigious Fiesta Bowl. 
Michigan and Ohio State won big 
Saturday and Iowa won small. Wis­
consin also was a winner. 
Ninth-ranked Michigan smashed Minnesota 58-10 as Sandy Smith ran for three touchdowns and passed for three more; Ohio State, ranked No. 10, burned Northwestern 55-7; Iowa, No. 12, squeezed by Michigan State 12-6 and Wisconsin rallied be­hind Randy Wright for a 42-38 tri­umph over Purdue. 
Bowl bids officially will be handed out Saturday when the Big Ten closes the regular season. 
Mliltiple
c:hoice 
Don't lea,•e your dinner to guesswork. 
0 
3oz. 
(serving) 
Protein 12g 
Fat 10g 

35167 I 2650 
~----------------------~ 

The Observer Monday, November 14, 1983-page 10 
The Road to Seattle 
E..t  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Dallas  9  2  0  818  341  239  
Washington  9  2  0  818  372  235  
St. LOUIS  4  6  1  409  238  342  
Ph•ladelph•a  4  7  0  364  172  283  
NY G1ants  2  8  1 .227  192 262  
Centro!  
Green Bay  6  5  0  545  304  309  
M1nnesota  6  5  0 .545  248 271  
Detroit Chicago Tampa Bay San Franc1sco LA Rams New Orleans Atlanta  5 6 4 7 1 10 West 7 4 6 4 6 5 4 6  0 .455 234 224 0 364 201 233 0 91 158 259 0 636 305 204 0 .600 222 214 0 545 230 240 0 400 206 206  Yesterday's ReauHa Kansas Cdy 20. C•ncinnat• 15 Houston 27. Detro1t 17 Ch1cago 17. Ph1ladelph1a 14 Green Bay 29. Minnesota 21 St LoUis 33. Seanle 28 Cleveland 20. Tampa Bay 0 New England 17, M1am16 Buffalo 24. N Y Jets 17  
Buffalo M1am1  AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L T Pet. 7 4 0 636 7 4 0 636  PF 204 225  PA 220 181  Pittsburgh 24. Balt1more 13 San Franc•sco 27. New Orleans 0 San D•ego 24. Dallas 23 L A Raiders 22. Denver 20 Wash1ng1on 33. N Y G•ants 17  
Baltimore  6  5  0  545  196  235  
New England  6  5  0  545  237  202  
NY Jets  4  7  0  364  225  226  
Central  
Pittsburgh  9  2  0  818  227  181  
Cleveland  6  5  0  545  222  241  
C1nc1nnat1  4  7  0  364  240  215  
Houston  1  10  0  91  193 318  
Weat  
LA Aalders  8  3  0 .727  292 244  
Denver  6  5  0  545  192  196  
Seanle  6  5  0  545  274  258  
KansasC1ty  5  6  0  455  222  223  
San D•ego  4  7  0  364  248  301  

Bowl choices narrow, Miami wins squeaker 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON hind Texas Christian 14-3 at 
Associated Press halftime. 
But injured Ronnie Robinson 

The Orange Bowl committee was came off the bench and bolted 40 
just about to sing a new song en­yards for a third-period touchdown 
titled "Moan Over Miami" when a that sparked the Longhorns to a 20· 
Southernl'r named, of all things, Jeff 14 victory and kept them one game 
Davis came to the rescue. ahead ofNo.7 Southern Methodist, a 
The howl picture began to take :13·7 winner over Texas Tech. 
shape: over the weekend, but not The Sugar, Rose and Holiday 
hef(Jre several committees -the Bowls also filled one spot apiece. 
Orangt· and Cotton, for example -Third-ranked Auburn won its South­
wt·rc put through the wringer. eastern Conference showdown with 
No.4 Georgia 1:1-7, clinching at least 

llowever, Davis kicked a 19-yard 
a share ofthe SEC championship and

field goal as time ran out, giving 
a trip to New Orleans, although

sixth-ranked Miami a 17-16 thriller 
Sugar Bowl officials adhered to the

over Florida State and prohahly sen­
formality of the "official" Nov. 19

ding the llurricanes against No. I 
selection date by telling Coach Pat

Nebraska in the Orangt· Bowl, which 
Dye to "stay by your phone next

really doesn't want a hometown 
Saturday."

team but is under lots ofpressure. 
fifth-ranked Illinois earned its

The Orange Bowl will invite 
first Rose Bowl trip in 20 years,

Miami and prohably hill it as a na­
trouncing Indiana 49-21 as Dwight

tional championship contest with 
Beverly scored on runs of 13, Sand 2

I I -0 Ncbm~ka, which walloped yards and Thomas ~V.~*s ad~d :19­
Kansas 67-1.-\ ami clinchnl at least a 
and I -yard touchdown runs.

It' for tht· Big Eight crown behind Don't look now but it is almost that time ofyear again. 
Time for AI McGuire's "French Pastry." Time for Son 
Will Hare
ofPhi Slamajama. Time for the old cleaning lady to start 
whistling the Indiana University fight sung on Channel Sports Writer 
22. 

Alleluia! It's time fur college basketball again. 
Now before you start asking questions about who 
will be Number One and before you complain about 
Digger's schedule full of eastern creampuffs, here are a 
46-34 in the final. few things to remember about college hoops '83-'84: 
6. The Southeastern Conference is the best bas­
I. Ralph Sampson is gone. The average height of a 
ketball conference in the nation. Sorry, Big East, Big man in the state of Virginia is down from 6-4 back to 
Ten, and even the ACC, hut Dixie is the place to be this S-1 0. Now, let's sec if the Cavaliers' Terry Holland can 
season. Everyone knows Kentucky is great, but it is remember how to coach a normal team. 
teams the caliber of L'ill, Auburn, Georgia and Alabama 
2. Sam Bowie is back at Kentucky. Sam has been 
that make the Southeast the Beast. Top to bottom, this is injured for so long, Kentucky retired his red shirt. 
the most competitive brand of basketball. Nonetheless, Bowie returns with Mel Turpin to giveJoe 
7. Gary Coleman iS allve and well and playing for
B. Hall's 'Cats the best combination ofcenters since the 
Wake Forest. !lis name is Tyrone Bogues and he stands
days of Walton and Nater at UCLA. 

five feet-three inches tall. He is the Deacons' top recruit3. There are 53 teams in this year's NCAA this season.
Tournament. Don't ask me where this number came 8. There will not be a bigger upset than
from. I'm from the 16-:12-64 school. Next year, the num­
Chaminade's win over Virginia last year. When the
ber will probably be S4 . .3. • Silverswords, a Division Ill school, beat Mighty Ralph 4. Notre Dame is a young team. You may hear this Sampson last year, it was the biggest upset of collegeonce or twice from Digger Phelps during the course of basketball history. Then again, Georgetown plays St.

the season. The Irish roster has five sophomores, three 
Leo's on December 6.
freshmen, and zero Paxsons, so Phelps is not without a challenge this year. Yet there is much talent to be ex­9. NBC will broadcast three games from the ACC. plored. While CBS brings us Billy Packer and Gary "The Bab­
S. Ray retires. At the conclusion of this season, bling Foul" Bender, NBC gives us two real pros in Dick DePaul's Ray Meyer will call it quits. In 41 seasons, "The Enberg and the aforementioned McGuire. The UCLA, Coach" has won 697 and lost 3S 1. He began in 1942-43, Villanova, and Maryland games are all scheduled for TV. taking the Blue Demons to the NCAA Tournament Be there! when only eight teams made it. That year, Georgetown So hang on to your hats, fans. It will be an exciting and -without Patrick Ewing -was beaten by Wyoming fun season for Notre Dame and for college basketball. 
NFL Roundup 

Winless Houston defeats Detroit 
By BOB GREENE kept the Oilers from tying the club Orleans 0; L.A. Raiders 22, Denver Associated Press record of 18 straight losses set 20; and Pittsburgh 24, Baltimore 1:\. during successive 1-1.3 seasons in Houston quarterback Luck threw 
Second-year quarterback Oliver 1972 and 197:1. 13-yard touchdown passes to Mike 
Luck, making his first National Foot­In other games, it was: Chicago McCloskey and rookie Chris Dres­
ball League start, tossed two touch­17, Philadelphia 14; St. Louis 33, sel. 
down passes as the Houston Oilers Seattle 28; Buffalo 24, New York Jets "The first thing I thought about 
snapped a 17-game losing streak yes­17; Kansas City 20, Cincinnati IS; was last year winning the national 
terday with a 27-1 7 victory over New England 17, Miami 6; Green championship," said Penn State 
Detroit. Bay 29, Minnesota 21; Cleveland 20, rookie McCloskey, who scored his 
"It's only one win, it isn't redemp· Tampa Bay 0; San Diego 24, Dallas first pro touchdown, said after the 
tiun," Oilers interim Coach Chuck 23; Washington 3.3, New York 
..• see NFL ROUNDUP, page 9
Studley said. "Today, we literally Giants 17; San Francisco 27, New 
rose from the dead. The team made up their mind that this thing had gone long enough." 
The Oilers last previous victory was on Sept. 19, .1982, when they defeated Seattle. The streak-breaker 


Corby's "Nov. Fest Week" 
5·10 pm drafts .25 10-3 am Michilob $1.00 
rt·cord-setting tailback :\like Rozier. 
\1 tht 1 1111 '11\.t ·n-1r.r·, 

Although Oklahoma and Missouri. 
fC()IWHIJNIIC!liJII()N

both 7-5. can tic Nebraska f(>r Big 
Eight honors, the Orangt· Bowl in· l(>rmt·d thl· <:ornhuskcrs that it would invitt· tht· team with the best overall rt-cord to represent 1he con­t<:rence. All thrn· have one game remaining. 
Tht· Cotton Bowl. whkh is pulling l(>r senmd-ranknl Texas. saw its plans l(>r an unht·aten-unticd South­wt·st ( :onkrl'tll"e host team -Texas and Nehr<L,ka arl' the only unbeaten major-cofkgl· tt·ams -slipping away wht·n the Longhorns fell ht·­

WE HIRE VETERANS PART TIME 
Your local Army Reserve units 
need veterans of all services to 
help train and supervise incoming 
soldiers in many skills. Some of 
the sr<:lcialties open to prior 
service personnel are: 
Military Police, E5/6 

CAnnon Fire Direction Spec. E-7 
Clinical Specialist, E-6 
Legal Clerk E-5 For serv111g a weekend a month plu~. I'NO weeks a year, an E-5 with 4 yearl:> experience can earn over $1922 a vear. For more informa­tion on these and other job openings, call your Army Reserve Recruiter at: 
SGT JONES 234-4187 
C11ll collect 

ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE 

~__.,__(;JlriEAIJ~E 
~~\~()~I()A\,~ lfiiiL~\ ~1(1~111~~ 2_"" 
a 
November 14 
9p.m.
Nashville (19761 USA-Paramount ABC 
Otrected by Robert Allman Color ctnemascope, 159 mtn 
By exammmg !he Jl\les of 24 unlorgellable people dunng ftve hectte 
ddys, Allman presents hts own untque vtston of Amenca. ustng a country
communiCAIIOn 
mustc mtlleu m whtch show bustness and pohltcs merge
{,. I H E A I R E 
' lniVfRSIIY Of notA! DRill! 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
$ 2. 00 ...
T ~u ~ 11113 Jt-i lr----__, 

0000000000000000000000000000000000 with Guest Appearances by
I.. SENIORS! DIONNE WARWICK
.. 
.. 3rd ANNUAL BLOCK PARTY 

and former N.D. Quarterback
.. 

.. this Friday JOE MONTANA
.. 
November 18 3:30 · 6:30

.. TUESDAY, NOV. 15th • 8 P.M.
• in the North Dome of ACC 

(Portions of this show will be taped for a ..• FOOD, BEVERAGES, MUSIC AND Nov. 23rd Bob Hope Television Special.) 
.. 
.. FUN FOR ALL! 
.. 
PRICESMAKE PLANS NOW TO ATTEND!
•

••••••••• 511.50 510.50 57.50 
Floor, Platfonn Lo-Aren1 Blnc:hers 
•nd Lop
r----------------1 

Tickets on sale at: 
ACC Box Office 9am-5pm
I EVERYONE DOES IT! : 

SEARS (University Park Mall,
: Now, Have A Place to Keep Them. t 

t 
Elkhart and Michigan City), Elegant Cloth, 8~er Send $3.95 ea. t ROBERTSON'S (Sa. Bend, 
with draw cord, • • and your printed 

Tawn & Country and Cancard Mall),
Historical Per.:pective o name & address 
f 

ST. JOSEPH BANK (Main Office),
t and more. 8ag '""""~"· for use as a label. t 
To: QUIBBLEDICKER 

ELKhART TRUTH, J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP
t P.O. Box 7651

t Pittsburgh, PA 15214 f (LaPorte), WORLD RECORDS IUC)snenJ MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor).
L 
FREE CATALOGUE-Send a Self Addressed Sta[11ped Envelope. 
j 
~~~~~~~~~._..~~...-...._..~~ 


~c:»~citC3L~------------------------------------·M-o_n_d_ay_,_N_o_v_em__b_e_r_l4_,_1_9_8_3
___P_ag_e_l_l 


........................................................... : WHATDOESTHE i 
! STUDENTUNIONRECORDSTORE !
. • -. • 
: CHEAPER PR/CES... save24-32•fflistprices! HAV£ FQR M£? : : MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.50!Comparea. : 
: $8.991ist) : 
: CUT-OUTS...$29H5.98 : 
: GREAT SELECT/ON... Springsteen, Fogelberg, Steveie : a Nicks, Christopher Cross. Moody Blues, Pat Benatar, Jour."'ey and • 
e many, many more... • 
: ALSO... recordedandblanktapesavailable. I : 
e CONVENfENCE... The NDSU Record Store is located • : on the Main Floor ofLaFortune. : 
• Plus-ordered albums take only one week to arrive! e 
............................................................. 
Woolridge vs. Tripucka 
Bus trip to Chicago Bulls 
VS. 
Notre Dame

Detroit Pistons 
Game 
Tues., Nov. 15 Bus leaves 6:00pm Sign up at ticket offfice 


or at SU Record Store Student Union 
Bloom c:ounty 


'JHt Gfi£AT MPMTRO a'/C£. flhAN 
5175 BefOfl£ HIS INSTRU/t'WT. .. 
f'Rff'AKIN(; FOf< HIS Gl{6f.l'fe5T 
CHIIU.f,NC£: me cmtJANK 
ACCIYJNT Fit.£ . . FIN, AWIU' 
G<£SS AT11/e flASSWOfW.•. 

Fate 

71/EN SH£' D~PPEP HE JUS/ LIKE T/141/ 
I 

'iODD,GOOD... 

The Daily Crossword 
11/14/83


flll.S5WORP 
"KARL MARX" 
APPf?O./W. flR.(JCWJ. 
I I I 


AND lfiW lliEY Atllllol GIIUS To AITliiO••• 
\ 


Berke Breathed 
GI?6AT MA€STR05, UKf. &ReAr CAPITAU515, HAVf. AKf.f.N 5€NS6 OF HUMOR . PC.£.A5e. CONTINIJt ! 
!HANK VOU. 
QUI€T IN1H€ 
131\l..CONY, I'W\5£. 
Photius 
J¥t JIIST K!l>l>tN; 816 

Dave & Dave 
TEE ,lolf£,IIEE. • TNAr! AGOOD DN£. NEitT TH~ 'YDWh ~A'Y 
TlliY'AE. D1111Hi 7Jif HAll 
ft.I6US~. 
l~ 

53 Certain 13 
pattern 22 Residue 57 Grate 24 Sgt., e.g. 61 lombardy 26 leading 
commune 27 Memory 62 Physician glitch of yore 28 Moorings 63 Fitzgerald 30 Send 
or Raines payment 64 Butterine 31 Bias 65 Funeral 32 Zesty 
oration 34 Dandy 66 Flabbergast 35 Pother 67 Actor 36 "All the 
Bruce King's-" 68 Went haywire 42 Meeting 69 Kind 43 Totter 
44 Bridged 
DOWN 45 Hockey 
1 Dicedots great 
2 Genesis 46 Right a 
name wrong 
3 Teasdale 48 legal point 
the poet 51 Song 
4 Unimportant refrain 
5 "On-of 52 Prolonged 
Norman's attack 
Woe!" 53 Bumpkin 
6 Perfora-54 Part in a 
tions play 
7 Lendl of 55 Czech 
tennis river 
8 Indian's 56 Like a bump "friend" on­9 Raise 58 Singing 10 Shoulder voice 
muscle 59 Innuendo 11 Jai-60 Breathe 12 Treaty org. heavily 
Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "Trade Policy in Thailand," Ms. Pornpen Vorasopontaviporn, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Oil and Gas in Eastern Overthrust," Dr. Charles S. Bartlett, 101 Earth Sciences Building 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "A covalent component to specific protein-nucleic acid interactions," Prot: Paul R. Schimmel, 123 NSH 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Bringing Up Baby," Annen berg Auditorium 

•
7 p.m -Film Club Meeting, 124 Center for So­cial Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Italian Club Meeting, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7:30 
p.m. -Graduate Students Ecumneical Fellowship, Campus Ministry Office, Badin Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Planned Parenthood: Philosophy and Services," Ms. Elizabeth Mooney, Library Lounge, Sponsored by the Women's Caucus 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Foreign Affairs as Told by a Female Foreign Correspondent," Ms. Georgia Ann Geyer, Carroll Hall, SMC, Sponsored by Student Government 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series II, "Nashville," Annen berg Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
7p.m. 16 MA.'iH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 
7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 34 Straight Talk 
8p.m. 16 Boone 22 Scare Crow and Mrs. King 28 That's Incredible 34 The Making ofa Continent 
9p.m. 16 NBC Monday Night Movie 22 After MASH 28 Monday Night FootbaU 34 Great Performances 
9:30p.m. 22 Newhan 10p.m. 22 Emerald Point N.A.S. llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 34 Straight Talk Rpt 11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Han to Hart/ Columbo 
Far Side 

00 
ACROSS 
1 Bygone 
5 "To-own 
self ... " 10 Actor Andrews 14 Straight 
beam 15 Shack 16 Biblical 
country 17 Persian elf 18 Make 
jubilant 19 Dilatory 20 Certain 
European 21 Act of modernizing 23 Feminine suffixes 
25 El-, Tex. 
26 Former province of France 
29 Great need 33 Cooperstown 
shrine 37 Oscar­Rent a 
38 Spire ornament 39 Pindar work 40 Homo 
sapiens 41 Serpents 43 Backing 47 Gobi, e.g. 49 Attractive 50 Enthrone 52 Chalcedony 
Saturday's Solution 


f 

Monday, November 14, 1983 -page 12 
Sports 
Irish bowl hopes choked off by close loss to Nittany Lions 
By MIKE SULLIVAN much more," said Irish coach Gerry those who wondered why a pass or a .\ports lidltor Faust after the game. "It was a well­handoff was not used at the time. played game on both sides. I feel real "All the schools do it (send the 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. -In a bad for our players, because they coaches down to the lockeroom game: that saw a combined total of played their hearts out." before the half). There are only 962 total offensive yards, S~ I in the Strang's heroics aside, it was two air and 4~ I on the ground ( 217 by Notre: Dame offensive plays that Saturday's Game Allen Pinkett alone), one would not played a large part in determining Notre Dame 0 10 7 13 30 
Penn State 3 10 7 14 34

think that one-and-a-half yards the outcome of this offensive slug­
Scoring would mean too much. But the one­fest. One wa.~ a second-down play PSU -Gancrtano 37 kick N.D. -Johnston 39 k1ck
and-a-half yards that the Irish failed from the PSU half-yard line at the 
PSU -Jackson 11 pass from Strang (Ganc1tano to pick up meant the game -and a end of the: first half, and the other kiCk) N D -P1nkett 17 run (Johnston kiCkf
post-season bowl -as they dropped was a third-and-one play from the 
PSU-Ganc1tano 40 k1ck a heartbreaker to Pt·nn State, ~4-~0. Notre Dame 21 with two minutes N D P1nkett 16 run (Johnston k1ck)
-here on Saturday. lc:ft in the game. PSU -W1lhams 46 pass lrom Strang (Ganc1tano kickf
The second-largest crowd in On the first play, the Irish, trailing 
N.D -P1nkett 1 run (Johnston kiCk) 

Beaver Stadium history -85,899 -I ~-1 0 and possessing no timeouts, PSU -Jackson 29 pass from Strang (Ganc1tano kickf •
got its money's worth a.~ it witnessed tried a quarterback sneak for the 
N D -P1nkett 1 run (2 pOint failed) one of the most exciting college incht·s that were needed for the PStJ-Strang 8 run (Ganc1tano k1ck) 
football games of this season. Neit­score. The play failed, and Faust and N.D. PSU 
F1rst downs. 24 26

ht-r team scored twice in a row, but his coaching staff received a lot of Rush1ng attempts 52 44 tht· Nittany Lions did score last, criticism for the decision, as an al­Net Yards Rushing 269 162 
Net Yards Pass1ng 257 274

which was the difference. Lions most certain scoring opportunity 
Passes camp-attempted 14-20 16-24 quartt·rback Doug Strang's eight­was lost when time ran out in the Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 526 436
yard touchdown run around the half. Fumbles-lost 3-0 
2-1 

Notre Damt.' ddc:nst· with 19 "All our coaches were coming Penatt1es-yards 3-25 0 Punts-average 4-33 2-50.5
seconds remaining in the: game: put down from the press box and so we 
Individual Leaders Penn State in the: lc:ad for good. had nobody upstairs to give us the RUSHING -Notre Dame Pinkett 36·217. Smrth 
"The spt-ctators couldn't a.~k for view we needed," explained Faust to 7-22; Franc1sco 3·13; Brooks 2-15. Beuerle1n 4-2; 
Penn State Doz1er 21-94; Withams 15-61 Strang 6­11. Mumford 1-2; Jackson 1--6; PASSING-Notre Dame Beuerle~n 14-20-0. 257; 
Penn State Strang 16·24-0. 274. 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame. Jackson 4-118. Bavaro 5-77. Howard 2-40; Sm1th 2-25; P1nkett 1--3; Penn State. Jackson 7·101; Williams 3-65; Dim1d1o 2-56; Baugh 2-31. Dozier 2·21 

Irish women show off 
defense in scrimmage 
Attendance-85.899 

tWt.'nty minutes for halftime and the .~
By MIKE SULLIVAN was comprist·d of IS-minute halves 
coaches need to put there diagrams

Vmrts l:'dilor with a running clock did not allow 
on the chalkboards.
much time for scoring. Second, the 
"We did think of possibly throw­

IIa hits art· hard to break. The shouting touch of the players is not 
ing, but we went with the sneak be­

Notrt· Dame women's ha.~ketball quite there. Finally, the timing on 
cause we thought we could get six 

tt·am st-emed to finish last year with passes was off, resulting in a high a habit tilr getting in very close, number of turnovers. But, then, ... see FOOTBALL, page 8 exciting games. So it really should prest.'ason scrimmages are supposed havt• been no surprise that the an­to be a little rough. nual intrasquad game la.~t night wa.~ a The major purpose of Men's basketball 
the close haute between many of la.-;t scrimmage was to help DiStanislao year's starters and those who would to decide on a starting lineup and to 
Freshmen impressive in scrimmage
like 10 start. In the end, the White allow the coaches to sec how the squad won on a Lynn F.bbc:n foul players have improved or adjusted. shot with no time: remaining, 26-2S. However, the impressive play of ByWILLHARE Freshmen Scott Hicks and Donald Sluby and Price kd the third 
The game, in which neither team some players who did not start last Sports Writer Royal combined for 27 points to period rally for the Blue team. The led hy more than four points after year has made her job much tough­pace the winners. Blue took their first lc:ad since early halftime, marked an official begin­er. While the Notre Dame basketball Sophomores Jim Dolan and Joe in the game when Joe Price scored ning to tht· 198.:H!4 st·ason (the ''I won't decide on a starting scrimmage last night looked as if it Buchanon each contributed I 0 for on a reverse layup with three tt·am had played another scrimmage lineup until next Tuesday (the day was played at half speed, it gave the the Gold squad. minutes lc:ft. last wet.'k ). of the season opener against Mar­young players a chance to perform Junior Barry Spencer, making his Barlow added a couple of corner 
It is obvious from the score that quette)," said DiStanislao. in front ofa crowd under game con­return from academic probation a jumpers to put the Blue ahead 60-S9 the scrimmagt· was a defensive Until the opener, there should be ditions. year ago, contributed with solid with I:28 to go. But the Gold took hattie: in which neither team took a good battle for a number of posi­For the record, it was a closely rebounding and eight points for the the lead for good on a jim Dolan many shots. Irish coach Mary DiS­tions. One of the few spots that fought battle won by the Gold team Gold. shot. tanislao's philosophy has always seems to be settled is the center over the Blue, 61-60. The two Senior swingman Tom Sluby, the The Blue's final attempt to regain ht-en to play toujoth defense, but the position, when: junior Mary Beth squads were pre-selected by Irish Notre Dame captain, played for the the lead was thwarted on Price's low scoring output wa.~ a result of Schuc:th appears to be solid. Schueth coach Digger Phelps. Blue team and led all scorers with 18 missed corner jumper. The Gold more than toujoth defense. Four players reached double points. Sluby was joined by Ken Bar­then succe:.sfully ran out the clock 
. .. see WOMEN , page 8 

First. the fact that tht' scrimmage figures for the victorious Gold team. low and Tim Kempton up front for to seal the win. the Blue, while Dan Duff and Joseph The competition for the point Price manned the backcourt. guard spot continues to heat up 

The Blue also had four men in 
following the strong shooting and double figures. Price tallied I 6, 
passing performance of Joe Buc­while Barlow had I 4 and Kempton 
hanon. He is fighting for a starting job with junior Dan Duff. 

had 10. Notre Dame received solid per­
While showcasing their roster, formances from Kempton and Bar­
the Irish proved they have many low as anchors on the front line. 
players capable of contributing to The Irish also revealed a great deal
the success ofthe team. ofdepth at the forward position. Be­
"We have a lot of depth," said a tween Sluby, Dolan, Spencer, Royal, 
pleased Assistant Coach Pete Gillen afterwards. "We'll an Rucker, and Bowen, Notre Dame has
be exciting many people that can add both
team because I think we have more muscle and finesse.
quickness than ever." 
The: ( )b.'k:rver/'J.hom Hrotdlc:y 

Captain Tom Sluby and the rest of the Notre Dame basketball team readied themselves for their upcoming season in their an­nual blue-gold scrimmage. See Will Hare's story belou• 011 the men's team and Mike Su/lit•an's story belou• left on the women's team. 
"We still have a few things to polish up on such as getting the ball into our big men." 
The game was played under inter­national rules, as the Irish prepare for Wednesday night's contest with the Yugoslavian National team. 
"Yugoslavia is a great shooting team," said Assistant Coach Jim Baron. "Tonight was just for getting the guys to play and have a good workout before a crowd." 
"We just have to keep running be­cause that will be a strength." The annual scrimmage was 
The (lbserver/Paul Citarelli 

divided into three ten-minute periods. The Gold team led 4S-36 on 
Quarterback Stet•e Beuerlein and the Irish found and keeping their bowl hopes alive. See Mike Sul­
a Hicks jumper with just over nine 
thems(•/t'es just a yard short ofdefeating Penn State livan's story above. 
minutes to go in the final period before the. Blue made a surge. 
You get three: guesses about who will be on regional televi­sion on Saturday, and the first two don't count. That's right. The Notre Dame-Air Force matchup will be ABC's early game this weekend. Kickoff will be sometime before 12::-\0 and 
12:40 p.m. Because of the NCAA rule that says that colleges can only appear on national and regional telc:vision three times in a year, many of the more meaningful games cannot be televised. Notre Dame is always an attractive team, even with a 6­4 record. 

·' 

