---------~ 
----------------. 
Welcome back-page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 2 
., 
Adrenalin rocks North Quad 
Observer photo/Scott Bower 
The band Adrenalin rocked the North Quad last University. The concert was sponsored by the Student 
night. The free concert was one of a series of events Union. plannedfor the week as part ofWelcome Week at the 


Begin resignation plan announcement today 
JERUSALEM (AP)-Prime Minis­ter Menachem Begin kept Israel in suspense yesterday by delaying his planned resignation for the second time. 
But he promised tlnal word this morning. 
Heads of the ruling coalition parties spent about three hours pleading with Begin to change his mind. 
Members of Begin's Herut Party said after meeting \\lith him late yes· terday that he would make the an­nouncement today at a meeting with leaders of his ruling coalition after seeing U.S. special envoy Robert C. McFarlane. 
Ehud Olmert, a member of Herut's parliamentary faction, said after meeting with Begin, "His mood is very relaxed." 
Olmert said that Begin "is resolved to retire." But Ronnie Milo, another parliamentary deputy and Begin's son-in-law, said the chances were 50-50 that Begin would stay on. 
Twenty-four hours after Begin dropped his bombshell announce­ment at a routine Cabinet meeting, the reasons for his move remained largely unknown, and throughout the country, Israelis kept their radios tuned to live broadcasts from the doorstep of Begin's office. 
Israel radio said Begin told his col­leagues his reai>ons were strictly per· sonal. Begin tier ,ed reports that he had become fed up with his Cabinet, which has grown increasingly split and unstable in trying to deal with the inflat t ion·torn economy. 

A crowd of 50 supporter~ gathered across the street from Begin's home in the Rehavia quarter ofJerusalem, chanting, "Begin, king oflsrael, lives." They waved placards urging him not to resign, including one which said, "Begin, don't aban­don us at a time oftrouble." 
Fo:eign Minister Yitzhak Sbamir was mentioned in the Israeli media as Begin's likeliest successor. But Is­rael Army radio later reported that Deputy Premier David Levy also had solid backing. 
Coalition Chairman Avraham Shapira said an early election was possible and mentioned November as a likely date. He said he did not know whether Begin planned to run for re-election. 
Begin deoied the O{)tion that he fek too fetbk to lead Israel through Cmlgh political and economic times, che radio said. 

Health Minister Eliezer Shostak said at a news COftference that Begin did not feel physically and mentally on top of his job; but Begin cut him short saying "no, that isn't the reason," the radio reported. 
Begin's colleagues said they argued that his timing was politically and religiously bad. 
West German C T hancellor Helmut Kohl is about to visit Israel, and the country is about to carry out a com­plex partial withdrawal from Lebanon and implement a series 9f unpopular economic measures. .... , 
TUESDAY, Ali.GUST 30, 1983 

Two U.S. Marines killed in Lebanon 
BEIRtlT, Lebanon (AP) ~ Mort~lr shells fired by Moslem militiamen killed two li.S. Marines yesterdav. 
And at least 36 Lebanese died when fighting broke out as the Lebanese army tried to crack down on Shiite Moslem militias. 
The militiamen had seized control ofparts ofwest Beirut. 
The two Marines were the first deaths in Lebanon, and the t1ghting was the hardest in the country since the Israeli invasion in June 19H2. 
And the new battles posed a serious challenge to President A min Gemayd's 11-month-old govern· ment. 
In Washington, a Marine Corps statement said 14 other Marines were "slightly wounded." Reports in Lebanon listed eight of the Marines as seriously wounded. 
The Marine Corps communique identified the killed Marines as 2nd Lt. Donald Losey. 2H. of Winston· Salem, N.C., and Staff Sgt. Alexander 
M. Ortega, 25, of Rochester. N.Y. 
The communique n(ited that the number of Marines reported wounded continued to increase through the day "as Marines report to aid stations." 
The Marines were killed and wounded by .mortar shells firt·d by members of the pro-Iranian Shiite militia group, Amal. The shells hit Marine positions at the international airport (?n the south side of Beirut, a Marine spokesman in Lebanon said. 
In Washington, Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said that the tire which hit the Marines "appear~ to have been directed at the Lebanese armed forces position~." 
But the American peacekeepers retaliated with a -tO·minutc artillery attack. Mortar ami helicopter gun· ships silenced the militia batteries. the spokesman reported. 
Twenty five civilians and I I sol· diers were killed in the second day of 11ghting between the army and Amal, and 130 civilians and 60 troops were wounded -16 of the troops seriously -Beirut polilT reported. 
The Shiitt.·s captured an unknown number ofarmy soldiers and several armored personnel carriers. hut Shiite casualties were not reported. 
By nightt;•ll. Amal militiamen were in control ofseveral residential neighborhoods in Moslem west Beirut, as well as all crossing inter· sections to Christian cast Beirut. 
The only army presence left in west Beirut was near Prime Minister Shatlk Wazzan's oftke at tht· entrance to Hamra. the main com· mercia! thoroughfare. and near the American University of Beirut in the Manara neighborhood. 
Gemayel interrupted a four·hour emergency T Cabinet session at his presidential palace in Baabda. in the pine woods east of the city, to dis· cuss the situation with ti.S. presiden· tial envoy Robert C. McFarlane. 
In Santa Barbara, Calif.. President Reagan expressed "prot(mnd sor· row" over the death of the two Marines. 


Automated tellers arrive at ND 

By MARK WORSCHEH 
.'lewsEditor 
It's Friday afternoon. 
You're short on cash. The line at the cashier'soffice in the Administration Building stretches out the door. Your alternative? The Bus Shelter. Yes, the Bus Shelter, because that's where the Notre 
Dame Credit Union has installed its latest 24-hour Automated Teller Machine -"The Exchange." 
Announced with much publicity· more than a year ago, the machines were supposed to begin serving stu­dents in January. It was not until late spring, however, that credit-union customers were able to use the machines. 
Paula Nemeth, an employee of the credit union, said that all three automatic tellers are working now. 

Additional machines are located at the Main Office on Douglas Rd. and the St. Joseph Medical Center. Afourth machine will open soon at the Torrington Branch, 3509 West Sample. 
Customers must obtain a plastic bank card and a Per­
sonal Identification Number to use the machine~. Nemeth said that students can either apply for the service in person or call the credit union. It usually takes two to four weeks to get the card and the iden· tification number, she said. 
The credit union charges a J I a month for the card. Most South Bend banks, including the St. Joseph Bank and 1st Source Bank, do not charge for automatic·teller 
service. 
But Nemeth said that those banks place "outrageous service charges" on their checking accounts while the credit union doesn't charge for checking. 
With the teller cards, customers can make deposits, withdrawals, loan payments and fund transfers. The Ex­change is also an nationwide network, and customers can call l-H00·237-ATMS to find out other Exchange locations. 
l!p to SIOO can be withdrawn per day from The Ex· change, with the period from 2 p.m. Friday to 2 p.m Monday considered one day. Nemeth said the credit union made the weekend hours because it is not open and reports are not run on Saturday or Sunday. 

r---------------------------------------------------------------···---· 


In Brief 
Michael Loux, chairman of Notre Dame's philosophy department. ha~ hn·n named dean of the College ofArt~ and Letters. l.oux. a ~P~Tiali~t in metaphysic~. <.reek philosophy and the philo~ophy of language, c1me to Notrt· Dame in 196H after receiving lu,, Ph.D. from tht·l'nivt·r~ity ofChicago. lie has written seven hooks ;llld ha~ rt't'l'ived two awards for outManding in~truction -the ~henfv ;m·artl in 19""-f and the Madden Award in 1979. Loux became chairman of the philo~phy departmt·nt last year. -The Obserz•er 
Richard Foley, associate professor of philosophy, will rt·plan· \lichad Loux as chairman of the philosophy department on Thur-.day Fokv. a ~pet'ialist in t·pistemology, recc:ived a Ph.D. in 
19""~ t from Brown l'niversity. Ih: came to Notre Dame in 1976. foley ha~ ht't'n t·_<HiirtTtor of the undergraduate program in philosophy and coordmator of the department's honor-thesi~ program since 
19..,9. --The ( Jbserr•t'l' 
Professor of American Studies, Thomas J 
~t·hlneth. has been named to the national editorial hoard ofMuseum 
~llldies Journal, a ~an Franl'isco-ba~ed publication of the Center for 
\lust·um ~tudies at John 1·. Kennt·dy l'nivnsity. -Tbe Obserl'er 
Monsignor joseph Gremillion has become 
tht· new dirtTtor of Notrt· Dame's Institute h>r Pastoral and Social \lini,trv <•rt·million, who has served on two papal commissions, has ht·t·n director of sol'ial and ecumenical ministn· since 19""H in the dion·M· of Alt·xandria·Shrt•vt·port in Louisiana. l.k replaces Monsig· nor John Egan, who resigned in April to take a post in the Ardtdioct·st· of< .hicago. -I 'be Ubserr•er 
Art professor Susan P Madigan has been dected stTrt'tary of the Association ofAlumni of the Dumharton Oaks Inter· national Centt·r fi>r Byzantine ~tudies in Washington. D.C. She will t·dit the group's quartt·rly bulletin. -Tbe Obsert•er 
Philosophy professor Father Ernan McMullin has hl·t·n namnl the prt·sitknt of the American Philosophical Associa­tion. westnn division. McMullin. director of the historv and philosopny of scit·nce program. has been president of the·other three major Amt·rican philosophical groups -the Philosophv of Sdt·nl'l' Association. tht· 'vletaphvsical Society of America and. the American< :atholic Philosophical Association. -Tbe OfJsen•er 

Of Interest 
Need that f1nal touch to make \'OUr room dis·. tillltin·Jy you' Tn tht· '-,tepan Mall tomorrow and .Thursday. The mall. sponsornl hv the Studt·nt l nion. katurt·s everything a dorm room l'<lllld '' ;mt. plants. furnilllre. posters and other knickknacks. The ,.,l'll Book Exchange. which has moved to the mall this year, starts Thursday. Ill .a.m. to<' p.m. l'sed books can he dropped off tomorrow. and monl'\' and unsold boob will ht· ret.Jrned Friday The Stepan .\!all open~ tomorrow at 9 a.m. and runs through 6 p.~l: -The Oh.wn•er 
The theatre departmentof Notre Dame and Saint r\lan·'s will hold an informal reception ti>r intnested frl'shmen tonight at-in< l'l..lllghlin Auditorium at ~aint .'vtarv's. Theatre facultv and 'tudl·nr-wtll· discus' how ~tmknts can gl:t involved in th~· dt'partmcnt. Audition ll>r the department's first three plays will also hl' hl'ld nl·:~ot \H'l'k. -Tbe ( ihserr'£'1' 
A Mass officially opening the I I I st academic }Tar at !\lotre Dame will hl' at 10:50 a.m. SutH.lay, Sept. \H, in Sacred Ikart< :I111rdl. Fathn Tht·odort· Ikshurgh. l 'niversity president, will he the principal cdehrant. and Timothy 0'.\ll'ara, provost, will give tht· homih·. -1be Ob.~en•er 
Partly cloudy and very warm today. with a 6o percent chance for thlltHfer,torms. lligh ncar 90. .\lilt! tonight, with a ~o percent chann· lor thunckrstorms. Lows in the mid-60s. Cooler tomorrow, with ;1 dt.lfll't' ti>r morning showers. High around HO. ­
.tP 


Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 2 

A little constructive advice 

As the joy of moving into dorms and off-campus abode~ subsides. students may find many surprises awaiting them as they wander across campus. Both the newlv oriented freshmen and the experienced up­perclassmt·n at Notre Dame and Saint .'vtary's will en­counrer numerous physical changes and additions. 
The alterations, from newly renovated student centers at both schools to comfi>rtahle seats in the Engineering Auditorium to strange new log creations lurking at the edge of Saint 'vlarv's l.ake. mav start a few students thinking. The changes.should ope1~ some eyes to tht· many opportunities on both campuses that are not prc-.entlv taken advantage of. 
The major building renovations. ofcourse. will have students tlocking to them out of sheer curiositv. The tirst lloor of LaFortune. at the sacrifice of the s~nkcn courtyard, is tinallv functional and aesthetically pleas­ing. If the same typt· ofattention is paid to the ballroom and the upper lloors, maybe the student center will at last bt·gin to attract the stu­
dent body.  
Perhaps  :'llotre  Dame  
could  take  some  lessons  
from  Saint  .\1ary's  in  that  

department. The new Hag· gar College Center, created from the t<mm:r library. means the College has tinal· h prm ilil'll much-ne<:d<:d 'ocial space for it.. students. 
The new bookstore. ~nad. bar and lounges tinallv give Saint \1ary's a sol'ial f;tcility worth staying on campus li>r. TIH: new student otlkes. for '0 long hanishnl to the catacombs beneath Regina. should st'f\T as l'nl·ouragc· ment for Saint \1an·'s stu· dents who want to become involved, yet appreciate daylight too. 
The 'nack har of the new center is particularly im­pressin·. The lluddle, even with the booths and new­wave ceiling taken into account, mav at last he faced with some serious culinary competiti;>n. 
~tutlents might also take better advantage of the co­t·xchange program hl·tween Notre Dame and Saint .\1ary's. While the debatt·s rage about the ti>od quality at th<: two institutions. few students take it upon them­selves to :1ctually procure a co-ex card and partake in the scrumpuous fare available on the other side of the road. 
That \kcca of campus social life, the Engineering Auditorium, will certainlv he drawing the crowds now. The addit ion of cushioned scats, a raised stage and new equtpmt·nt ensure that this vear's freshmen will never tw ahlc to fondlv rl·minisn: about tht· hard. cramped 'e:tllng and poor projection qualitY of their collegiate cinema ('XIXTietH't'S. 

'!'\..
Margaret Fosmoe _i 
> 
Managing Editor 
" 
"\.· ·~
Inside Tuesday 
' 
The new mall under construction at Notre Dame (more commonly known as The Place Where the Old fieldhouse llsed to He) holds some interesting pos· sibilitics. While the area presently appears as a maze of concrete, sand and unusual lumps, it might actually bt· a credible addition when completed. By adding a few benches and picnic tables and keeping the silver posts to a minimum, the area could become a popular campus spot. 
Students may find enjoyment exploring the concrete expanses of the numerous sidewalks Notre Dame added during the summer. While the chaotic, widened walkways between LaFortune and Washington leave one wondering why they just didn't covera// the grass. some of the new ~idew;tlks really are quill' hdpful. With thl· new ce· ment strip from ()'Shag to tht· library, students are going to he hard pressed to lind creative new routes across the grass. 
The two new pieces of outdoor modern art at Notre Dame, while hardly subtle blendings of the campus ar· chitecture, may intrigue 
some students. And if you'd like to sec some real art, saunter over to the Snite Museum, a facility that far too many students ignore during their years h~re. 
On the natural side, the outskirts of the campuses arc potentially a source of unlimited undergraduate ad· venture. l.1nfortunatcly, m•.>st students never take ad· vantage of the outer realm. 
The lake area in particular can he the source ofquite a bit ofcollegiate activity. The island, completl' with new railroad ties to halt erosion, is always a plca:o.;mt spot to feed the ducks or watch a sun.~et. 
Tht· Notre D;tme Heach, located on the beautiful shores ofSaint joseph's Lake, is a spot few students frc· quent, except perhaps ti>r an an illicit early morning dip. Few universities, however, sport such a facility. But ifone doesn't mind nibbling tish (and warm waters as a result of the nearby power plant), the beach can add much to one's Notre Dame experkntT. 
The rt·novations and additions art· mcrdy stepping stont·s to further enjoyml·nt during one·, \Tars at Notrt' Dame and Saint Marv':o.. Thest· are only soml· of thl· legitimatl· facilitks ;1\:ailablt·. The possil;ilit ies an· end­less. 
.The ObserYer_ 
Conipo.u'lion l:'tlilu,. . ............... Tom Snull Lomposilicm Assistant .. Davt' Rohin~on Tvpesetten·• ...................... Kevin \\'illiams Neu•.'\ Editor.. ............................... Vil' Sciuli Cop1• f.'tiltor... ................ Boh \'onderhdde Sports Copv Editor .............. Mike Sullivan Editorials Layout. . . ...... Keith Picher Features l.tll'OUI ............... Sarah Hamilton NO fJav l:'tlitor ... ..................... \lark & Boh Ad fJesign . .................................... Boh Slota Pbotoxrapher...-. ..... Scott Bowt·r Ciuest A.pfJetlrances . ........ Edilori:tl Borell \1et·ring, Hahka & Adams, Inc, K..T '!\ 
l 
eating ht'Ht·r (thank tJod!) 

In the past, when a nation felt threatened by unruly mobs, the Queen called her professionals the Royal Lancers. Today, when you feel threatened by unruly hair, call on the professionals at 

University Commons Courtyard 
(S.R. 23 next to Tempo Fashions) Men and Woman's Howstylrng 272-7880 



The Observer (USPS 598 920) rs publrshed Monday through Frrday except durrng exam and vacatron perrods The Observer •S publrshed by the students of Noire Dame and Sarnt Marys College SuC>scrrptrons "nay be purchased for $30 per year r$15 per semester! by w1rlrng The Ob­server, P 0 Box Q ~~olre Dame In· 'drana 46556 
The Observer 1s a memLar of the Assocrated Press All reproductron rrghts are reserved 


Hickory Smoked Ribs Fried Chicken Deliciously Thick Pizza 
1835 LWE, South Bend, ln. Phone: 288-8240 
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet Granger, ln. Phone: 277·3143 
Buy a Rib Tip & Chicken Dinner at Regular Price and get the Second at 1fz Price Must Remit Coupon 
Complete Carry Out-Phone Ahead 
Not valid in combination with other coupons No cash value. or specials Expires Sept. 30, 1983. 
The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983-page 3 
Welcome Week activities continue 
By AMY STEPHAN 
Copy Editor 
You can rollerskate tonight. Go dancing under the stars Thursday. And check out the Dunes this weekend. 
All free of charge, during "Welcome Week" at Notre Dame. 
This afternoon, take off on a scavenger hunt. The hunt will leave from the front steps ofLaFortune at 3 p.m. 
The Stepan basketball courts will become an outdoor skating rink tonight from 7 to 10. A OJ will provide music and skates will be­available free. Remember to bring your I D and socks. 
You can purchase necessities for your room at the Stepan Mall on Wednesday and Thursday. Area ven­dors will sell art, furniture, rugs and other supplies, while the Irish Gar­dens will sell plants. 
The Student Union book sale will be incorporated with the Stepan Mall this year. Books will be col­lected tomorrow and sold on Thursday. 
Musical entertainment will be at noon tomorrow and Thursday. The band Trinity will play tomC>rrow, and Shenanigans will perform on Thursday. Both groups will perform in front of the statue of Father Sorin, at the south of the main quad. 
Be at the 'Brar Thursday night, but don't bring your books. The library reflecting pool is the site for a "Dance under the Stars." A OJ will provide music and special effects, including a fog machine. 
Experience a "Taste of Notre Dame" on Friday. The North Dining Hall will be closed and about 80 area food vendors will be distributing samples of their products on the south side of Stepan Center from 11 
a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Stepan Center is also the site of the Carne picnic, which will feature the band Par Ill and t1eld games similar to those at An Tostal. The pic­nic will be from 4 to 7 p.m. on Friday. 
The movie "Blazing Saddles" will 

Services planned for Walsh soph. killed in wreck 
By TOM MOWLE 
Copy Editor 
Memorial services are being 

planned for Cathy Pax, a Walsh soph­
omore who died in an automobile 
accident 10 days ago. 
Pax, 19, was killed in a two-car 

accident Aug. 20 while returning to 
her home in Coldwater, Ohio, from a 
summer job. According to the 
Hamilton post of the State Highway 
Patrol, her vehicle crossed the cen­
ter line and was struck by a motor 
home. She was pronounced dead at 
the scene. 
Pax was a copy editor and a senior 

staff reporter for The Obsen1er. She 
also was fund-raiser chairman for 
Walsh. 
One other sophomore and two 

retired Holy Cross priests also died 
during the summer. 
Mark Lamping, 19, died in his 

home in Colorado Springs, 
Colorado, onJune 13. The Sorin resi­
dent was an Air Force ROTC cadet 
and a member ofAlpha Phi Omega, a 
volunteer services organization. 
Father Louis Thornton died Aug. 5 

in the Holy Cross House at the age of 
77. Before he retired in 1970, Thornton was registrar and director of the plocement bureau. 
Father Francis O'Hara, 84, former be shown at Stepan Center at 10 p.m. on Friday. Admission is S1. 
Ifyou've always wanted to play in a band, but can't play an instrument, get a group together for the air-band competition on Saturday. Contes­tants will have six minutes to per· form to prerecorded music using original props and costumes. 
You'll have the "Chance to Dance at a Polish Wedding" on Saturday at 9 p.m. The band Nightflight will play both polka music and rock music, and Polish food will be sold. The finals of the air-band competition will be held then. 
A bus will leave for the Warren Dunes at 10 a.m. on Sunday and will return around 4:30p.m. Sign-ups for this trip will be on Friday at the Stu­dent Union Record Store. 

In addition to these Student l'nion activities, individual classes are plan­ning many events. 
The senior class is holding a social at Rafferty's from 4 to 6:_~0 tonight, picnics on Wednesday from 4:30 to 6 p.m. at the Saint Mary's beer gar­dens and Saturday from noon to 4 
p.m. on Green Field, and a canoe trip on Friday from 2 to 4:30 p.m. 
The junior class is sponsoring a golf tournament on Wednesday and a junior night at Giuseppi's on Friday. 
Francesco's Famiglia Restaurant "Papa & Mama Do The Cuoking" 
fei\turmg 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
The Original Southern Recipe Lasagna. Home-made Spaghetti. Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana All Varieties c' Sandwiches 


!FrdiKP~·o \~·'"' ~hef ,,, Notn• DdmE' lor 21 ~rs l 

10 percent discount on dinners
1636 N. Ironwood 

and any large pizzas with coupon
277-6155 277-6156 

to ND & SMC students
"WE DELIVER"' 


I 
l 

BY THE CASE KINGS CELLAR 
BEER 
24 LOOSE 
·HEINEKEN 
4/6 NR 
99 

La Batt's Canadian case.. 1 0 1199 
Molson Golden case..... . 

BUDWEISER KEGS 
V2 BARREL
2999 
PLUS DEPOSIT APPROXIMATELY 200 SERVINGS Miller keg, 1f2 b ......... 32.50 
QUARTS Old Milwaukee ........... 699 899
Budweiser ............... 
Jack Daniels 75o 
Tanqueray Gin 750 
Wild Turkey 101 750 
Fighting Irish 
Bourbon ltr. Seagrams Seven Crown 750 Kings Cellar Vod. 1.75 Kings Cellar Gin 1.75 Everclear Grain Alchohol 750 Southern Comfort 750 Bailey's Irish Cream 750 Crown Roy a I 750 Stolychnaya Vodka 80 750 Bacardi Rum 750 Bacardi Rum 151 750 Aranas Tequila 750 
H.W. Schapps 750 Gilbeys Gin 1.75 Gilbeys Vodka 1.75 



WINE 
CARLO 499
ROSSI 
4LITER 
ALMADEN MOUNTAIN 49
3 
WINES 
1.5 LITER CODORNIU 
BLANC de BUNC4 9 9 
CHAMPAGNE 
750ML 
ZONIN 199
LAMBRUSCO 
750ML 
M & RAsti Spumante 750 Blue Nun 1so 
799 899 999 
699 
499 799 899 
699 

599 1099 1099 
899 499 899 499 499 799 S99 

professor of P"YChology died on June 23 at the Holy Cross House. 
: "N.D. Grand Opening Specials"···Register for free T.V., 
O'H.1ra taught at Notre Dame for 10 vear~. and lived here in retirement 
Drawing Sept. 30, no purchase necessary. Must be 21. 
since 19"""'0. 
The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 4 
r--------------------------------------·--------..-.----.----..-.·------------------------------------~ Hijackers 
L 
J of the drought. But yesterday, Gary 
! HAMMES NOTRE  DAME BOOKSTORE  !t~~':~; J~  
\  ~  PARIS  ( AP l  - four  Arabic·  
~  ~  speaking  hijackers  threatened  to  
~  For your convenience Textbooks are now  ~  blow up an Air france jetliner and I"' hostages in Tehran yesterdav un· less france met political demand~.  
~  arranged by course number.  ~  But Air france said the hijacker~ continued negotiating after the  
\ ~ 1  fib 1 I \) Ooks.ore  deadline pa~sed.\ ~ Heatwave 1scorching  
~  ~Midwest  
\\  Extended bookstore hours on  \ ( AP) -An incredible heat wave\ that has ruined many Midwestern  
~ J ~  tuesday, aug' 30th and  ~ J ~  ~~:ee;~a;~o:e:~i~0 ::>~~ 0:h~:;~nr~here and there and pleas to Washing­ton for federal help.  
[\ l 1  wednesday aug 31st 90m tOI 7pm '  ~ In Indiana, Republican Gov.\ Robert D. Orr two weeks ago ( predicted that farmerS WOUld lOSe[ SI billion in gross income because  

\ Swaim, director of the agriculture , j division ofthe Indiana Deparment of Commerce, said the losses were 
._....~._...._......_.....,.....,..~..,.._,__......_... ........~...-...........,...........,...,._..,.......,._...........,....,.........~.._.......-.........................._.....,..~...,.....,._ ..........,....,....,....,....,.....~WP'I..,j likely tog<> even higher. 

BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank is pleased to announce the opening of our new office at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, on August 29, 1983! 
Free checking is available to St. Mary's and Notre Dame 
students and faculty. In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours -Monday through Friday August 29-September 2 -9:00a.m.-5:30 p.m. September 6-September 16 -12:00 noon-5:30p.m. Permanent hours to be announced. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 
~source
-.aank 
Member F.D.I.C. 
Calling All Budget Watchers!! If it's Carpet for your living Room, Family Room, r---~ Bedroom, P & R CARPET will fill your needs and not empty your pockets. Sizes: 12'x9' from $59, 12'x 12' from $99, 12'x 15' from $139 and many more. 
CARPETS ARE OUR BUSINESS-COME SEE US TODAY & SAVE! 
BRING IN YOUR ROOM MEASUREMENTS USE YOUR CONVENIENT CHARGE CARDS 
·-·· ~ .. -.... '""""' •••• ,.., ...... ,......~-....-....--.c-.,./-·-· 





MultipleChoice 
Don't leave your dinner to guesswork.
D 

3 oz. (serving) 
Proteon 12g Fat 10g 

Domino's Pizza is the best Coke availabie chotce. Just 2 sltces are 16 oz. bottles more nutnt1ous. lowe· ­
Our drtvers. carry lPSC!: •hRn $20.00
iat and higher 1n oroldor Um1ted delivery ara9 than either A ta-: ~ 1Q8:1 Oom•no·~ P.r.r.1 
cneeseuur-.JW 
1"-.ulrntona.•nformctllon H·.·m· Tao~·~· Nulrlt1ona• Analys~<J ol ~as! Food~ UI"Pte'1 Slates AgncunlJI•· Resear·· 
::io q1ve us a call and 01 r 
us to the tes: 5<>• "'· ., 
r·---------------------, 
Mondays only Only $6.99 for a 16" 
1-item p1zza plus 2 16 oz. bottles of Coke. One coupon per pizza Expires: 1 0/1/83 

$6.99 
Fast, Free Delivery~ 1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
II. 
Phone: 277-2151 

35167/2650 
~----------------------~ 
~--­
-------------------------------, 
The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 5 
Jackowski named new SMCDean 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Sister Karol A. Jackowski, former director of residence life, was named Dean of Student Affairs at Saint Mary's this summer. 
And Pat Rissmeyer, former programming coordinator at the University of Massachusetts assumed Jackowski's position. 
Other appointments at the Col­lege included: Nancy Schoeneman, assistant director of the counseling and career development center; Nancy Foldesi, counselor in the cen­ter; Amy Lowden, counselor in ad­mission; and Rev. Thomas Mayeski, campus minister. 
Jackowski replaced Kathleen Rice who resigned as dean at the end of. last semester. Jackowski was direc­tor of residence life for five years before assuming position as dean of student affairs. 
"I had done what I wanted to do. The job was getting stale," said Jack­owski. 



USED BOOK EXCHANGE in stepan mall 
WedAug31 Drop off books with the 1Qam-6pm price you want inside the book. 
ThursSept 1 

Books will be sold.
10am-6pm 

Fri Sept 2 Unsold books and money 1pm-5pm will be returned. 
A SERVICE OF YOUR STUDENT UNION 
,_.o.-~-~--o..-.c~..-~-~--o..~~--.o-~.-.c:,_.o,....cH-~..,o...o..-..cH-~..,o...o.-W: 

and Rest aurant 

Live Music & Dancing Beer, Wine, Liquor & Food to Go 
WARM ATMOSPHERE 511 S. Michigan St.-South Bend, In "a tavern that's more than a tavern" 
Coupon worth $1 for 289-4709 pitcher of beer 
WE HONOR BOTH
(Bud & Mich. Dark) Best Hamburgers & BBQ Ribs & Chicken in Town 


L--------------------------------------------~ 
Enter the ParkerTop-of-the­
Parkerpresents 2500 chances 
Class Sweepstakes andyou could vvin something that cangive you a 
urfatherneverhad 
real advantage in life. Your ownTexas Instruments home computer 
\Ohile you're at it, pickup something better to write vvith, too. AParker }otter ball pen. 
Its microscopically-textured ball grips the paper to help prevent messy blobbing and skipping. 
And it writes up to five times longer than most ball pens. 
Look for sweepstakes entry forms and details at your college bookstore. But do it soon. With over 500 computers to vvin, this is one sweepstal<es worth entering. \Ohile you still have the chance. 
--•........ _---··~··< : ·········-·-·:-·--·~ ·~ <P PARKER 
....l._ .. ~!.OJ~-----·;:;:··~.· ~

·.···::•··,~·~~-~---·... ..
I -1

ih ······· 

To emer the ParkerTo(Xlf-the-Oass Sweeps~s. no~chaseis necessary. whm· il" •i"''''' rl All enmes must be received no later than O:tober 15. llJ8.'1. il:lllJB3ll'!'C _ _ .. 
~"'at'-'\\'-~'~'\.'-'\"\ '11."' ".'\•""·,·,.,.,...,..,.-..,·•~,--.-~.,·,~-.{1: ~-.~~:J;'~~;::.J.< /rr..r.~ / ..~, .-·... ·,. \!. \!"Jt • ~·/.....<4.., \ ".t.'f._..,-.... ,.\ ... ..,.•,'-/...\.~, t• • • '\ ·.. . I .......f.-.. . ·. t'tstt,Stsr«·wI .,. ~lt~~~"'"'"'t""' .,. ...... \ .. t•~''~~ll'iJ..-.-•LL ~.ct ...... -.l .•.•.•·, ... ~ .......... ~ ....... ~ ... --··--~-, ~ . 
• 1 I 

-------------------------------'-------~---~-­
The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 6 
r 

mtt;'"i;"~-nfii;';(i;tl;l College establishes lost aid fund 
I .· . We wel~om/e Back Haircut, ShampOO, I 
all1 acu ty . • I

I Blow Dry & CondItIOn 
and students ' I ~ Reg. $15 1I • N $8 SQ I
54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. AcrOss from Martm's on St. Rd.23 OW . WITH COUPONl Tues. Wed, Sat 8:30 · 5:30 H • t I $6 I
I Thur, Fri 8:30 . S:JO aIrcu on y c:~:~NI 
272·0312 277 ·1691 S801fer applleolo MALE patrons only. H•lf muat be weshed d•y of cut. ...

1.;-------------­

Ir.----------------~
I 









·-----------------· 
I  I  
IIUSED TEXTBOOKS 1 25 o/o offlistprice 1 3-5 day delivery ifnotin stock I Buying used texts 1-4pm ffion.-Thur.  I II I1  
I  OPEN 11-6 WEEKDAYS  I  
I  10-5 WEEKENDS  I  
1  937 So. Bend Ave. 233-2342  1  


By BOB VONDERHEIDE ing to Joe Russo, financial-aid Manchester, Ind., are also planning a . fu d
.Veu•sEditor director at Notre Dame. n . The Goshen College plan would Russo said at Notre Dame, of the Goshen College is setting up a replace dollar-for-dollar any can-forms already submitted to the special s1"i,OOO fund to replace cded federal financial aid -which financial-aid office, no male student federal aid lost if students fail to includes the popular Guaranteed has refused to register. register with the Selective Service. Student Loan program. The Education Department The Mennonite school southeast But (ioshen financial-aid director originally set July I as the deadline of Notrt· Damt• is one of a handful of Walter Schmucker said the plan's for submitting the li>rlll, but 
colleges that han· acted to offset a cost "is not going to he significant." 11nancial-aid directors complained new law linking draft-registration Schmucker said the plan will replace of too little time to handle the paper status to li:deral financial aid. grant mouey with grant money, and work. Notre Dame has not considned a loans with other loans. A month ago, the Education special fund. lie said special contrihutions Department moved the deadline to The law. which passed Congress from Mennonite Church memhers Sept. 1. hut this week the depart­ea~ily last year, requires students will pay for the expected S I S,OOO ment again extended the deadline receiving federal aid to submit a annual fund. one month to Oct. l "in anticipa­form stating they have complied And at least three other Men-tion" ofcongressional action. with Selective Service laws. nonite schools will have a special Under the law, male students he-Failure to submit the form hy Oct. fund. Some Quaker schools, indud-tween the ages of I H and 22 will I will li>rce financial-aid offices to ing Earlham College in Richmond, have to suhmit a form to the Office cancel the credit of federal assis-Ind., and Brethern Church schools, of Financial Aid stating that they tance dbpcrsed after July I, accord-such as Manchester College in have registered. 

272-5335 
GREENHOUSE 
lf1nl\-'' 1-/ori.~t (Juulih 
Rmsonable Prices~ ~up your room oraparbnentwith plants& flowers loc:al and outof town delivery available 
,II, ..~' 

YOU COULD WIN A NEW FORD MUSTANG CONVERTIBLE.. Visit your nearest participating Bell PhoneCenter and enter the Bell PhoneCenterTalk's Cheap sweepstakes.* You could vvin a new FORD MUSTANG CONVERTIBLE. an Apple, ;ecomputer. a Kenwood stereo component system or a 3-album record collection No purchase necessary. 
:.,. full detc\1l!t.mc1 t>ntry form<, .ue .wai!c:lble at your p.uticiJMUng Bell PhoneCenters No purcMse required Voic1m the state of Washington and. 
\vherever prohibnf'd hy lc:lv.... Open to college c;,tuc1ents registered at t1me of entry on,\ tult-tlmf' or part tlme b.\!tiS .u '"'"Y U.S College or Umver'JIIy Re<.Jdenh ot Ohio ONLY rn.w reu~1ve i\n entry torm ~nd full ctetdll~ by sending d ~lt-ilctdressec1. Strlmpec1 envelope ro Bell Pnone"Cemer [rllry Rcquf'st. ro. Box 4434 R. BldH, Nebrasko:1. 68009 limit one rl•que~r per envf"lope Reque~ts must be receiVed by S£>ptember 30. 1983 5'YCf'P>l"~~' end5 OCiober 31. 1983 

i•. l ... :: .~ 

~i~~J!_()__i_Jl___t__________________
T_ue-sd-ay,_A_ug-ust_3_0,_19-83--p-ag-e7 
Appreciate the place 
For tht= last few days the incoming freshmen at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are more than a few Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates who never took the were imn-.erse<.l i.1 a sea of orientation information and activity. Shortly, this time to wander through the Administration Building, sit by Lake Marion or read will be replaced with the daily grind ofclasses and homework. Tom Dooley's letter at the Grotto. Taking the time to sit back and take a look at 
Somewhere between the two, freshmen should take the time to look around the campuses gives one·.t different perspective on the college years. and really get to know Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. There are students who let Criticism often seems the norm during the undergraduate years. This is not 
their undergraduate careers pass without once exploring this place in which t=ntirely bad -without criticism there is no progress. But the freshmen should thev live. The pressures ofcollege life make it easy for a student to get caught up make it a point to make the criticism helpful. The good side ofcampus life should in wandering aimlessly from dorm to class to library and home again. be recognized and students should work to make it better. 
It is all too common to fall into a pattern ofcomplaining about the dining halls. There are few better ways the class of 1987 can improve campus life than Indiana weather and the dean's directives. Less common is the time spent talking through knowing the campuses. Knowing the place is essential to capturing the to the hall chaplain, th~ visiting alumnus or the stranger in the lunch line. essense of the university and the college. 
Becoming part of a university or college does not mean one must sacrifice The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community has a lot of things going for it. individualism. Incoming freshmen: appreciate the place. Stepping beyond the sidewalks and the silver posts is also important. There 

College: a great opportunity 
So here you are. After months and years of waiting and working and hoping, you've final­ly made it. But now vou're beginning to won­der: Was it worth it? Is Notre Dame or Saint Mary's as good as rumor makes it? Will I get along with my roommates? Can 1 handle the work? Is this really the best that dining hall food ever gets? 
Tom Mowle 
On the Line 

None of that is easy to answer (except the last one: yes, I'm afraid it is). Over the last couple of days, a lot of people have thrown a lot of information at you, a lot of which you forgot within a few hours because they were trying to tell you how a student should behave in college, while you want to behave however you please. Which is justified. 
Look at this as a great opportunity: for one ofthe last times in your life, you are entering a new environment with no reputation at all. 
Here's your chance to start qver, to establish a whole new character for vourseiP. Chances are that no one here kno~s you. and those who do have better things to do than mess up 
your life. 
If you feel that you spent too much time buried in the books and want to be more so­cial, go ahead! No one here knows that you were a geek in high school. Or ifyou think that you partied too much and really ought to pay a little more attention to classes, no one here will tell you, "But you never studied before. It's only a mid-term. C'mon, let's get wasted." 
The important thing is to establish for your­
self who you are and what you want to do. I 
know, that's much easier for me to say than for 
you to accompli~h. but it's the only way to 
avoid being manipulated by everyone into 
being what they want you to be. And you must 
do this as soon as possible, because once you 
begin to create your reputation it can be hard 
to shake. 
If you start out as a throat for six weeks, then suddenly want to party all the time, you won't feel you fit in with the blow-off crowd; while the friends you had will wonder what's 
wrong with you. It works the other way as well, perhaps to an even greater extent: you'll always be bothered by people who want you to do something -anything -besides study. Schizophrenia probably isn't the way to go. 
The other important thing is to avoid worrying. Freshmen always worry too much. Don't worry because everyone works better when relaxed. And don't worry because there is little need to. 
You can handle school here. The tact that you were accepted proves that. Whether you will do well or not depends on how hard you try. 
You will get used to the food. No, don't panic; that doesn't mean you'll go home on break and ask Mom for spinach quiche. But you will develop a resistance to what is served. 
No, you won't be studying fifty hours a week, whatever Emil told you. I don't know whether you should or not, but you won't. 
Yes, Virginia, there is a social life here. People will tell you there isn't, but if you pay attention, you'll find that these people don't try; they want someone else to give them things to do. Ifyour impression ofcollege life comes from Animal House, you're on the wrong campus, but this place is not as dead as some say. South Bend, however. is deader than you ca~ eveu imagine. 
Another common complaint is the dif­ficulty of relating to the opposite sex on campus. This complaint is somewhat justitled. For some reason, it takes more effort here to develop friendships with the opposite sex than it did in high school, but it is very worthwhile to do ~o. Romance -no; it is pos­sible, but not necessarily as benetkial as good, strong friendships. 
Get involved in something, or you'll bum out quickly. It doesn't matter what -ath­letics, music, volunteer work, windsurfing, this paper (I had to put that in to get this printed) -but extracurriculars enable you to meet other people, to feel that you're doing something more than Calculus homework. Unless, of course, you want to sit through graduation four years from now listening to· someone important and wondering: Was it worth it? 


The right way to orient freshmen 
"Look at the person seated to your right," ordered the speaker. "Now look at the person to vour left." 
The freshman dean held the attention of hundreds of students as he delivered the opening address at orientation week. The shy students proceeded to turn their heads first to the right. then the left. 
Keith Picher 
Short of Profundity 

"One of you three will not survive the year." 
The words struck the bewildered freshmen like news of a close friend's death. Silence settled over the auditorium, followed by nerv­ous laughter. Like the Apostles at the Last Sup­per, every student sought reassurace wondering to themselves, "Surely not I?" 
"The freshman year is a test," the speaker barked out like a drill sergeant. "You'll get more F's and D's in the next two months than you had A's in high school. We're not here to fool around -we're here to find out who's serious about their life. lfyou're not up to the challenge. the door's over there." 
Though many students felt like walking out, something mysterious kept them in their seats. 
After the dean finished his Rockne-like pep talk, every freshman resolved that he or she would not flunk out. They left the building, and the rat race began. 
At year's end a full third ofthe students had left school. Their life now seemed hopelessy confused. Worst of all, the administration felt they had done their job. 
Across the country a different dean talked with several hundred young adults. He seemed almost like a parent -ready to offer advice, but eager to let each child discover. 
"Look at the hundreds of new students seated to your right and left," the dean sug­gested. "Over ninety-nine percent ofyou will be here at the end ofthe year." 
The speaker's words reassured the neophytes. They had heard horror stories about the rigors of the freshman year, and were relieved to know that they would survive it." 
"The freshman year is a difficult experience and we'll be sure to help you with senior ad­visors, advisors from the Freshman Year Office and tutors should vou need them." Al­ready' he had b~gun to 'sow seeds of con· 
fidence. 
"Don't feel bad when you get your tlrst B or 
C in a course. With enough work, grades will 
take care of themselves. But if you ever need 
our help, the front door to the office_is right over there." 
Though many of the parents felt like hug­ging the man as he walked away from the podium, something mysterious made them applaude politely instead. 
After the dean finished his pep talk, the stu· dents were glad they had come. They left the building, and their college career began. 
At year's end only a few had left school. Their year had been challenging but not un­bearable because the administration had done their job well. 
No, the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College may not be academic Harvards or MIT's, but they do have an administration, faculty, and student body who care about their incoming freshmen. 

Department Managers 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~!!~~~~ar~ .......... DavidD~ed~c 
/lox(!..Vf•tr<' f)am<'. IV -i6'i 56 I..! I')) 23'}-5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare· 
TIJ<' Uhsert•er i~ the independenl new'>paper puhll'hed h\' the ~tudent' ol the Un•· Executive Editor . ........ ,_....... Paul McGinn Con/roller . ...................... Alex Szilvas vt·r,it\' oll\lotrl· Dame duLac and ~aint \tan··., College:-Jt doe' not nece"aril\· rdkct News Editor . .............· ... Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen thl· pdlinc:' of the atlminhtrat1on of eithl·r in,titut•on. The new' i' reported a' ac.· .Yews Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzanne La Croix curatdv and a'> ohjl'l'li\eh a., P"'"hle l n'1gnnled1toriab repre,ent the opinon of a Sain/'Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastryski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto. majoruv o. th•: Editorial Hoard <:ommt·ntane,.ll·tter' and the ln~•de <:olumn pre~l·nt Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamil toll Sys1em Manager ............... Kevin Williams ~he \'ll'\\'' of their author'>.< .11lumn 'Pat'l' 1' a\·ailahle to all member' ot the n>mmunnv. 
Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower md the tree t"\[Ht''>~ll>ll ol varnn~ opmiOil'> on ('.llllf'll' I hn HII'll ll'tter'. i' t•ncoural!l'U 
hounded Novt>mber 3. 1966 

Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 8




Showcase 
The doors are open 

academic survival and long-range Interest inventories are one does not end at 3 p.m. It is a com­
planning. means oflong-range planning assis­plete living experience. This is espe­Because academia is the major tance furnished by the Learning cially true at ND, a university which reason for attending any college, Resource Center. Printed materials emphasizes its residentiality. The 
by Sarah Hamilton 
C
olleges acro!>s the country are freshman curriculum and helps stu­
survival in this area is utmost. For and video tapes are also available. Freshman Year ofStudies office doesopening their doors to welcome dents plan their schedules. Also, it 
this reason, the Learning Resource not shut down at 3 p.m. either. For
the Class of 19H7 this weekend. And provides freshmen with a system of Though the Freshman Year of
Center is available to freshmen. In this semester alone, trips to the
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are supports. Studies oftke provides programs
this center, located in Brownson Dunes, shopping tours ofSouth
following suit. For Domer freshmen, The freshman curriculum builds a and counselors, it is the student who
Hall, help is provided in certain Bend, a square dance and many
this weekend will be tilled with foundation ofgeneral education, will eventually sink, drift or sail. So 
learning skills and remedial or back­more activities arc scheduled. (See
seemingly endlc:ss speeches, mixers and as Hofman described, it allows he is the one who must make use of
ground material. Tutoring can bear­accompanying calendar.)
and picnic!> and countless nameless students to "sample an area of them as well as organize himself.
ranged over and above that which "Don't make the mistake ofthink­
yt·t smiling fact·s. specialization before having to com­According to Hofman, time manage­
the teacher and course provide, but ing there is nothing to do here but
Dr. Emil T. Hofman is one face mit (oneself) to a major." ment is the "most important tech·
only when a passing grade is in fall into the drinking scene," em·
whose name will soon become quite An advising team, consisting of nique for freshmen to master" ifthey
jeopardy. phasized Hofman. "There are so
familiar. As dean of the Frt·shman nine counselors and 6j senior inter­are to sail. Consequently, time
An example ofthis center's many good things to do here ...you
Year ofStudit'!>. he and hi!> staff are viewers. forms the backbone ofthe management is the subject ofone of
various facilities is the new pre­have available to you here the nicest
probably !>Ome of the most supports system. Directed by Dr. four workshops offered to freshmen.
calculus program. This learning aid group ofpeople you're ever going to
dominant ti1rce~ in a student's t1rst Peter P. Grande. this set of full-time Workshops on note taking, effective 
involves a series of 15 video-taped meet." 
yt·ar under tht· domt·. The Freshman professionals and specially selected study, taking tests and writing
lectures and supplementary A little student initiative can open
Year ofStudies oftit:e serves two students tries to aid t1rst -year stu­papers are also available. (See the ac­
materials organized by Dr. Alan the doors to all ofthese "good
main purpost·s. II administrates the dents in personal adjustment, companying calendar for dates, 
Howard ofthe Math Department. things" and nice people. And the
times and places.) 

Freshman Year ofStudies is waiting If it is not already obvious, college with the key. 
dates to remember 
Sept. 3 -Meeting for those students Sept. 19-Applications for Freshman who have already received course Advisory Council due credit-10 a.m. in the Freshman 
Sept. 19, 22-Writing Papers Workshop
Learning Resource Center. 

Shopping Tour of South Bend -Sept. 23 _Freshman Square Dance _ obtain tickets at the Freshman Year Stepan Center of Studies office from noon Sept. I until noon Sept. 2. 
Oct. 4-Freshman Dale Night-¢12.00 per couple. See Freshman Year ofSept. 5,8-Time Management Workshop 
Studies office for more information Sept. 6,7-Noletaking Workshop Nov. 8-Last day to drop a class Sept. 7 -Last day lo enter 11 class Nov. II -Freshman trip lo Chicago Sept. II -Freshman Trip to the Dunes ­II a.m. to 6 p.m., buses will leave 
Dec. 2 -Freshman Polka Party -Stepan from Stepan Center. Tickets are 
Center ¢2.00 and can be purchased from Sept. 5 to Sept. 9 at the Freshman 
Dec. 6-Freshman Dale Night-¢12.00 Year of Studies office. 
per couple. See Freshman Year of STudies office for more informationSept. 12, 15-Effective Study Workshop
Dean Hofman swings open the door on the 1983-84 school year. (fheObserver/Scott Bower) 


The suitcase contains the key 
students were wearing shorts March Philosophy I 0 I but one you can quick adjustment and acceptance, 3, 19H3. It was a fluke. The killer scream into on Thursday nights. plan at least four trips to the icc
by Sarah Hamilton 
W
plows will be racing their engines E-M-1-l! Unfortunately not all of cream freezer nightly, and remem· again this November. Another ice the freshman class partake in this ber, Sunday is sundae night in the ol' dcomt·' You have arrived. In age is coming. you know. Notre Dame ritual, but for the I,000 dining hall. Those sweats won't be
Let's face it. Best and Brightest, Clst· you art· wondering where you may have scored "tlves" on all You did hrin!!. your battery­or so ofyou who will, have fun. two sizes too big in May! 
it is that you have arrived. you .Jrt· A.P. exams from Ancient Greek to operated, temperature self-adjusting ( Heh, heh, heh.) I'll say no more. The bookstore doesn't carry a just Wl'st ofdvili.t.ation and just caM Advanced Calculus, and you may thermal underwear, didn't you? If Discover the exhilaration of supply of bowls, but extra large of Amnica'~ hl'artland. South Bend have banked I H grand, but if you perchance you left them at home, Chemistry 11 S on your own. mugs are available for S4.00. 
is tht· nt·art·st metropolis. and the haven't packed your ~uitcase right, here's how to dress tor a typical Fighting Irish pillows are on sale Gentlemen, don't think your 
dost·st mcoms of escape to the real you arc not !!,Oing to make it. (The January day at ND: For breakfast, in the bookstore for S6.9S. A suitcase is full yet. In choosing ND, world is Chictgo's ()'flare airport. S I H,OOO won't hurt though.) there is no appropriate attire, no<,.,.,. -w:nuine feather pillow is more ef­fellows, you made a decision to ( Pil'dmont dot·s tly from South Bend First of( Notre Dame is older than is going to breakfast in january! You fective though. come to a college where there are to Newark. hut I'm talking rea/ tht· hills. (IIills in Indiana? OK, so it is do have to go to your eight o'clock more cows in the surrounding fields
This year marks the 12th year of 

world.) older than the bumps.) And so are t1nite math class, though, so dress than there are women on campus.
co-education at Notre Dame. But as Congratulations art· most dcl1nite­the dormitories. But they arc full of warmly. Stepan Hall can be brutal, So, if you want to attract any females
we all know or will soon learn ly in onkr. You art· the hestand the character. (Except for Flanncr and and the temperature is chilly too. of the species your suitcase had bet·
(Biology I 0 I ), men and women are hrighlt'SI of vour hi~h school (;race. and they arc full ofair-Two sweaters, wool socks, a ski vest different. Therefore, their suitcases ter be specially equipped. Forget the graduating da~st·s. You survived and hat will do. You can stay dressed
conditioning; and the Pasqucrillas, suitcase, just load up the wallet' This
must sec a parting ofthe ways. 

as such until your II: I 5 French class
scn1oritis; mastt·rl'llthat menace. and tlll'y, well ...they have bath· is where the S I H,OOO comes in the Scholastic Aptitude Tt·st; and tuhs.) Consequently, though all on the ti.1urth floor of the Ad­Lady Domers, you did pack at least handy. Find me one girl who doesn't moSI dillkult ofall. made tht· choice dorms do daim indoor plumbing like to be indulged. And then there
ministration Building. Then, strip I 0 assorted colored sweatsuits two down to your alligator and ber­sizes too large, didn't you? The
to lt·an· your hometown honey. At and elccttidty. they never actually are those dorm parties. They bring ll'ast until October break. which. in· promised that every room would women in herds, but relieve you of
mudas! gentlemen of this campus seem to dtk'ntally, begins (kt. 22. You are have an electric outlet. Upon returning to your dorm dollars even faster. Well, when that
think that our wardrobes consist now an oftkial frt·~hman at the l"ni· You did pack extension cords, room for the evening you may need entirely offleecewcar with drawstr­t supply ofcurrency runs low, say in vt·rsit\· of Notrt· Dame du Lac. didn't you? Three-hundred yards or to pull out your designer swim suit. ings. (Have they looked in their own November, remember to get Dad's 
I'm quite certain that you have closets lately?) I guess this is what
so should be suftkicnt, depending A tropical jungle if not paradise is al­check to the bank before it closes. been wdl-prt·pan·d to handle the on the length ofyour hallway and ways a possibility. Ifyour room faces they mean by equal-opportunity Notre Dame Credit Union hours rigors that this llar\"ard of the Mid­the location ofyour room. Other one of the lakes, however, you're education. Besides, think what new are Monday through Wednesday west will prc:sc:nt. After all. you are than in a few senior rooms better offsporting the Nanook look. possibilities "Fiashdance" has and Friday 8:30a.m. through 5 p.m. the best and brightest. With the help (something to look forward to), Two C-cell batteries are on sale in created for the sweatshirt. and Thursday 8:30a.m. to 5:30p.m. of Dean f. mil you have crcatt·d a these fountains ofelectricity have the bookstore for S2.60. Thermal Irish sweat apparel is available in The Cashier's Office hours are 11rst-scmt.·ster schedull' designed to been strategically positioned in the underwear can he purchased at Uni­the bookstore in a variety ofstyles Monday through Friday, 8:30 to introduce you to higha education dorms at eat·h end ofthe hallway on versity Park Mall, which is situated and prices. But you'll want to go off II :30 a.m. and l to 4:30 p.r.1. 
without locking you into any college every other tloor. With your on State Road 2. campus to round offyour wardrobe. And now, Best and Brightest, your at this point. $1 H,OOO you might try purchasing In the midst ofall the excitement suitcases should be pretty well 
To complete the picture of the

electricity on the black market. and confusion we must always keep emptied. If they're not, you'll neverBut arc you rt•ady for college lift·~ Notre Dame woman, unpack your fit everything in your dresser. TrustSix-ti.1ot extension cords arc on in mind our purpose for attending
Heally ready? College: life now, not super industrial-size ice cream
sale in the bookstore for SI. SO. this hallowed institution: acquiring a b 1. \' d··• . . . me, I know. Oh, don't forgt·t that last
higher nlucation. I didn't think so. 

. 1"1 1 d ow s. ou lull t forget them d1d I" 1 k . kk k . h "d 
Wdl. that is what fn-~hman orienta· No doubt vou have hcen . supcnor 1lcra e ucation. vou~ I thought even·one kne~ that Itt e ntc ;a~ m t e s~ e plocket: 
1 1°0

lion is all about. So let nic" start forewarned ~bout South Bend's ~·in-lienee, you did bring an extra pil· ND ladies wi~l--'infa:ni<)us for their your naive es_m an am 
I I . . l .... J-·· •(lUi' N\1 w :v. ,.......&.._..._,,,,,.,,..........ld·"l..• 11'. '1'. t ••••·N~-J\IQI' ~W;lllU\.c;)OG.'i. .•-.-•.•-.-.
urinH~ng.. -tc:rs, •W\Of~ I 1(.' .f.Jt;t,th;,tt ·mo~rof'the•. '·• Q\¥,.,.j.~'-'-~ ·• .'!JUt -~---"~..,..._._-y_~...t.-1!" u·.,-·"" -.:-,r.,,~ , .. nit,;.· 1 Ytn ·~-et )( · Welco~1 c. · · 
Showcase Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 9 



Loft it! 
N
ot enough space in your dorm room for all ofyour furniture and memorabilia? Then loft it! The bed that is. Although there are many different designs for such structures, here are the materials and procedure for a basic two-to three-person loft. Check with your rector or rectress before building one for special regulations concerning lofts in your dorm. 
materials 
1 

Measure room crosswise, the distance from wall to wall where the loft will stand. Purchase two two-by-fours that length. 
2 

Measure the distance floor to ceiling less three feet. (According to fire regulations, all lofts must be three feet from the ceiling.) Purchase four four-by-fours that length. 
3 Measure the bed frame crosswise from the inside ofone bracket to the other. Purchase two two-by-fours that length. 
4 Purchase four hardwood wedges. 
5 Purchase a box of 10 penny nails. 


procedure 
1 With 10 penny nails hammer one four-by-four to each end ofeach of the two-by-fours the crosswise length of the bed frame. These will form two inverted "U's." 
2 Set each "U" up against the walls in between which the loft will stand. 
3 Nail the two-by-fours "that are the length from wall to wall to the corners ofeach "U" forming a rectangle on top ofthe two inverted "U's." 
4 Hammer one wedge between each corner ofthe loft and the wall it touches to secure the loft. 
5 Place the bed frame and mattress on top ofthe wooden loft frame. The loft should hold two or three mattresses positioned crosswise. 


Regina decorating: No single way 


C
ontents: one twin bed, one desk, one sink, one window, one wardrobe complete with dresser drawers. It may not be a palace, but it is home for a year: your very own Regira single. ­
Though not every Saint Mary's freshman resides in a single in Regina Hall, the majority do and in fact enjoy the experience. Sopho­more Linda Casio commented, "I think it's great for freshmen. I wouldn't give it up." Margaret Caven, rectress of Regina, said that students seem to enjoy the set-up. "It forces them to get out and meet people. They are not restricted to one or two roommates." 
A Regina single may be a socially broadening experience, but as an abode, it is mighty humble -when you first walk through the door in August. But it doesn't have to remain as such. 
"It's really important (for the room) to feel like home," adds Casio, "because it i~ home." But how do you personalize a room in which all furniture except the bed is bolted to the floor? 
Several upperclassmen reflected on their year in the freshman dorm and have come up with these creative suggestions: 
• To provide more storage space and a different perspective for the room, junior Anne Monastyrski suggests propping the bed up on cin­der blocks. This creates a place to hide objects which would otherwise be wasting space somewhere else in the room. 
The wardrobe is another area which can he better organized to conserve space. When she was a freshman, Casio added a second bar to the closet section to achieve the extra space. 
•Student Hody President Elaine Hocter suggested the idea of grid shelving for knickknacks. 
simple single ideas 
• family pictures 
•photographs 
of high school friends and activities 

• 
hand-crafted items (a par­ticularly personal touch) 


estacked milk crates 
ecarpeting 
• 
wind chimes 

• 
posters 


• plants (both standing and hanging, make use ofany southhn exposure) · 
Though most pets are prohibited from Regina, or anv other dorm for that matter, senior.resident assistant Janet Dean does keep a goldfish in her room. Dean loves the idea of the freshman ~ingle. "Since it's a single you have the option to do whatever you want ...everything's right there." 
Everything is right there, all ofthe basics. So go to it. Createyour Regina single. 

The 0 bserver Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page I 0 

WE WANT TOBE YOUR RECORD STORE 
IF YOU'RE INTO CLASSICAL YOU'LL LOVE THESE GREAT BUYS! 
HUNGARIAN RHAPSODY NO. 2 . MAZEPPA • LES PRELUDES RAKOUY MARCH 

RCA Cagpttes 
DVORAK 
"NEW WORLD" SYMPHONY 

GivethepftofmUSIC. 
+ 
BEETHOVEN SYMPHONIES Nos. 5 and 8 
48 Tillesto Choose from/ 


FINE REPRODUCTIQ\JS 
At a price 
DVORAK
You can live 

with! Masterworks Portrait is a distinguished series of recordings culled from the vast CBS Masterworks catalog. 

The artists are the finest in the world. The performances are internationally acclaimed. 
Whatever your musical passion, you're sure to find yourself in a Album Masterworks Portrait. 
or 

Etched in quality. Masterworks
Cassette 

Portrait Records and Cassettes from CBS. 
~MAS'lH<.WORKS POl:<JlW'l'~
Choose from 40Titles 


GLADRAGS 

KATIA & MARIELLE 

LABEOUE 
Album or Cassette 


HERNSTEI N CONDUCTS COPLAND & GERSHWIN APPAl..I\CHIA.N SPRING RHAPSODY IN BLUE 


377

SERAPHIM 0\SSETT ES 
each 


40 
iitles 


Album
to 
or
Choose 
Cassette
from! 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstor·e~ 

The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983-page 11 



WE WANT TOBE YOUR RECORD STORE 

CHECK THE PRICES ON THESE SUPER TITLES! 
The Hammes Not~r,e.Dame Bookstore 

The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 12 

ONE OF THE :.­
WORLD'S GREATEST!· CARPET REMNANT SALE 
SALE HOURS: 
WEEKDAYS 10 'Til 9 PM SATURDAY 10 'TIL' 5:30 
SUNDAY 1 'TIL 6 PM 
PET 


••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 
*APAMDEMOMIUM Of VALUE! 
*AREVELRY OF SAVING! 
Colossal Lees! Titanic Cabin Crafts! The ware­house of t+.ese giants were glutted wit+. remnants, loaded wit+. roll-ends, pieces accumulated from t+.elr greatest season ever, In such profusion as to t+.rottle t+.elr operations near-completely. They had to sell and sell quickly -and that's when "CARPET-WAY" stepped ln. With a dramatic, hard cash wipe-out oHer, we bought every single piece we could at bore rock -bottom -and now we pall 
tfole savings on to youI 
PERFECT FOR • • • 
BEDROOMS 

BATHROOMS 
KITCHENS 
BASEMENTS 
BUY NOW FOR ••• FLOORS WALLS STEPS DECKS 

Sorry No lay-a-way, No hold arden, No phone or mall o..den, All subject to prior oale, All pricing loon ccnh m>d corry boola, AI dlmenolono ..• min.......,... 
FREE FRONT DOOR PARKING 
* CHOOSE FROM 1700 PIECES! 
*PLEAS£ -NO DEALERS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
Shag, twist, plush, loop, tweed, cut/uncut, milti-levelfigured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up these values on the spat 
LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills
-
DELIVERY AVAILABLE Moderate Charge INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 
IDEAL FOR . TRAILERS COTTAGES CLOSETS STATION WAGONS 

OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTED 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
Golei  Ivory  Cat"mel  JonquU  Orivntal  
'Ink  Nugget  Apri<ot  Sauterne  Pineappt.  
Aqua  Soddle  Awo<odo  Abslnt+te  Gorden'•  
lime  llsque  Dresden  Ambervlow  Jtamingo  
Jade  Au•Jea  Llahamo  lh..eMII  'ooltlde  
Coin Oil we  Cerise Copper  Popri6ios • ..,.u.  laybell Hyacinth  lottie Gr..n Cloudy Jode  
Gr..n  Nougat  Jonquil  HeliotTape  'rotted CoccHI  
leige  ~urp~  Honey  Cor~•• R•d  'r•uo live  
Cannel  A•t•t  lronae  Ivy Gr..n  Grecian OIIYe  
Iron••  Autumn  Magenta  Manderin  Monte-go Sand  
White  Revol  Saddle  Ocean Green  Muffln ..lge  
AIUf'ft  Marine  lisque  Turquoise  Whi,.Grope  

AREA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY STORE 
liiiiiililiil FINANCING 
• AVAILABLE 
PERFECT FOR . . 
DORMITORIES 
APARTMENTS STUDY ROOMS ANY ROOMS 
MARY'S) 

CARPET-WAY
NO AND.S T.

31 (HIWAY BETWEEN • .5 N D. . DIRECTIONS: TAKE'SU. SON SAML StoE oF HtwPY A • 50760 U. S. 31 North 
SANDOCK • South Bend, Indiana ... next door
RTH TO 
,·. 


·-_;)..... :-._ :... 
The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 13 

FALL SEMESTER SPECIALS 
! ~ 


~Cl&® 
Ten Packs 
;--------­
-~---~~ 
-·• 


• 
Extra Value ! 

• 
Blue or Black Ink. 


• 
Writes More Than A Mile ! 


You Pay Only: $ 1.00 
10 BAll PENS 
MEDIUM POINT 
cu ro.o• ~ ~· lO.. oll 




PAPER8MATE® 
~ 
Twin Pack 
Special 
Value! 
Sugg. Retail $1.96 Special Price: 


$1.00
NOW ONLY 



$1.49 


The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
i 
I 
~" 
Twin Packs 

~· .. 
NOW ONLY}.:•, 
$2.00 ~,~~ 
,.... 





Sports Briefs 
All returning sports writers, there will be a meeting tonight at H p.m. Come to the office and we will find some place to meet. The meeting is extremely important, so ifyou cannot make it, call Mike at 239-';_U.3. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in' writing sports 
should come to an organizational meeting of the sports department tomorrow at 8 p.m. The location of the meeting will he announced in tomorrow's paper. If you would like to write. hut cannot make the meeting. or if you have any questions, call Mike at 2.39-532.3. -The Obsen•er 
I 

The Non-varsity Athletics Office has an­
nounced deadlines for signing up h>r some fall sports. Wednesday, September ~ has been announced as the deadline for interhall foot­ball. both men's and women's, mixed doubles tennis. both men's and womt.'n's interhall tennis singles, and grad/faculty tennis, men's, women's. and mixed. September '7 will also he the deadline for sig­nups l(>r the 16-inch ~oftball tournament ami co-ree softball. The NVA olfice also has announced that aerobic exercise classes will start on September 7 If there arc any questions. call 2.39-6100. ­
The Obsen•er 

Tuesday, August 30, 1983 page 14 
Baseballtryoutswill be held soon. There will be a very important meeting concerning tryouts and the upcoming season tomorrow, August 31. at S p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. Returnees from last year's team and any new candidates interested in playing should attend the meeting. Each person should bring a pen or pencil. -The Observer 
The volleyball team is looking for statisticians and line judges for its home games this fall. A good knowledge of tennis or volleyball is preferred but not necessary. Matches are played on weekday nights and on the mornings of home football games. There is a small salary. Ifinterested. call the volleyball office at 284-6281 as soon as possible. -The Obsert•er 
The Student Managers Organization is 
looking for freshmen interested in becoming a part of Notre Dame athletics. Look for a letter in the mail with information about an organizational meeting to he held soon. -The Observer 
There will be a meeting for all lacrosse players and those interested in playing this year tomorrow at ~ p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. Everyone should bring a pen or pencil. ­
The Observer 
Nebraska destroys Penn State 
EAST Rl'TIIERFORD. N.J. (AP)­Quarterback Turner Gill keyed :'llchraska's offensive llrcworks with a !-yard touchdown run and a 19­yard scorin!!. pa~~ in the tlrst period and the No. 1-ranked Cornhuskers crushed defending national cham­pion Penn State -H-6 last night in the tirst Kickoff Clas~ic. 
While Nebraska was piling up .29H yards in the tirst half-167 rushing. I 5I passing the Cornu~ker defense held Penn State to a total of I 09. Some ';9 vards came on one drive l;tte in the second 4uartcr. the only time till" ti>urth-ranked Nittany Lions got heyond their own ·11-yard line in the lirst two pe11iods. 
A crowd of~ 1.125 turned out at Giants Stadium. which seat~ ~6.Hl) I. 





Classifieds 
I.___N_o_TIC_E_s____.I Surrealism to lmpress•on•sm we have 11 all! Somethtng for ever ywall g1gantlc select•on at student pnces you II be as· tounded art pnnt and laser photograph sale today thru Fnday LaFortune Cen­ter (1n the NAZZI D<rty walls? Clean up your act w1th really hne art pnnts by really l1ne art1sts Over 8.000 pnnts 1n stock allow student pnces Today thru Fndaytll4 30da•ly. LaFortune Center (1n the NAZZ) Typ1ng. ALL KINDS 277·8534 after 5 30 M-F All day wknds  L--1_F_o_R_RE_N_T---..JIIL----_w_A_N_TE_o~\ Beaut1ful lurnushed 2nd :loor apt (Off1ce NO 2 GA PURDUE T1x for CASH OR 2 GA below) for 3 to 4 grad or law students 5 P1tt.MSU.Navy CALL 2560354 1 0-12PM mtnutes from NO-ample park1ng. reasonable •ent· From 9 00 to 5 00 call 233-9338 or 234·2385, after 5 WANTED. Wnters tor The Ooserver's SCience Dept Call Tom at 239-5303. Furn1shed duplex. 3 rooms. first floor. heat & water furnished. 503 W Jefferson, on bus line 289-6307 FOR SALE I 2 bedroom apt . conven1ent location, nice­SALE Large blue tweed contour cha<rly lurn1shed. very clean. $175 mo plus Very good cond1llon $45 272-2423ulllilles 763 L W E . 233-8388 evemngs & weekend  I PERSONALS I Help!!! DECORATE NOW! Art pnnts at 2 cents per square 1nch! Over 8,000 pnnts 1n stock of over 100 master art1sts. We have beaut1tul laser photographs tool Don't m1ss out! T Today thru Fnday. LaFortune (In the NAZZ) tll4 30 p m Oh to be 1n Ch1cago. now that tall1s here  Bare wall blues??! We cure them the doctor IS 1n1 The art prtnt and laser photograph sale at LaFortune Will put beauty on your wall and leave bucks rn your pocket. Don I sutter needlessly. see us today for your cus t tom prescnphon, Ill Fnday only I EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL YEAR FLEXIBLE HOURS MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS ON CAMPUS BONUS BASED ON RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS WELL. 800-526-0883. Telemarkellng representatives -Must proJeCt pos1t1ve 1mage over the phone. 12  BAND ORGAN RESTAURANT IS now h1nng for all pos1t1ons 211 E Day, 2 m1 E of campus off Ed1son Mus1cally Inclined students encouraged to apply The SCience Dept. of The Observer 1S look1ng for wnters If you re tnterested. call Tom at 231/-5303 BUDDING GARRY TRUDEAUS Do you have art1sttc talent and a sense of humor? The Observer IS lookmg for a campus com1c stnp to carry on the legacy of such modern ep1cs as Molanty, Stmon and Fate. If you are a Notre Dame or Sa1nt  
\ LOST/FOUND I  House lor rent 5 bdrms . turn . $1 00 mo plus ut1l 2 m1 from campus Call 233­2245 or 255-6823  TICKETS  Salvador Dali pnnts. 8 different 1n stock... you'll be overwhelmed 1n confu­SIOn! Thru Fnday only...art pnnt sale .. great tnexpens1ve wall  to 24 hrs per week. Hourly plus commts­SIOn. Excellent work1ng envrronment Apply by phone 287·901 0  Mary·s student and Interested 1n such a propoSition (so to speak), call Ma1garet at 239-5303  
$REWARD FOR LOST BLUE VELCRO WALLET CALL 8318 OR PANGBORN ROOM 39 SEE TONY ANDERSON  FURNISHED CAMPUS  HOUSE  CLOSE  TO  HELP! Need two tickets for M1ch1gan St. game. Will pay well. Call Ke1th at 6710. 310 Carroll  decor. huge selection ter (In the NAZZ).  LaFortune Cen­ Dear Charlie. I am cordtally blow.ng you off! Tom  sorry  for  Bnng a fnend and enjoy the scenery! We bnng the Louvre to you! Art pnnt & laser photograph sale ..Ill 4 30 p.m thru Fnday .. 1n the NAZZ (LaFortune)  

~br ~r\u !Jork€hnrs 
.........,_ •...-..•._~ -... -. 


~-=--=· ~ 
~· --~·:.:..-;.. ........ ~-:-·-~.... -"'!:· .~:.! ~f'=~~~~~~-~~'------· 
(\/Jtthi/ L tJ/1' Hdlt'\ Jt1r 
CAMPOS DELIVERY 
Special low rates for campus delivery of The New 
York Times are now available at 30 percent off the 
single-copy price. This discount rate of 35 JBer copy 
Is good only for weekday and Saturday papers. 
Sunday papers are available on a subscription 
basis also, but no discount is given. 
/'' ' ':··,· ·\ Papers will be delivered by 8:00a.m. o~ the day 
~ ~ \\\.1;. ··; I.~ of publication to dorms and faculty ?ffices. ~ I ~ • l \1 Delivery can be guaranteed for the .first d~y of \ . _;:__\ ~ 1.!' service on Sept 5, only if payment IS received by Sept 2. Delivery for orders received after Sept 5 will begin within 3 days and refunds will be granted in case of overpayment 
Please mail the bottom portion of this slip to: 
Michael Stuart 138 Stanford Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Dear Mr. Stuart: Count me in for the New York Times! I will subscribe 
Fall term--ends 12/ 14 ----mon-Fri $23.10 ----mon-Sat $ 26.95 ----Mon-Sun $ 54.45 ----Sun only $ 27.50 
Enclosed is my check for: ___.-· Please make checks payable to Michael Stuart. 
Name: Address: 

f-'hone: 

at a 30t savings for single-copy price. (Discount only for 
weekday paper.) Daily discount rate is 35¢. Newspapers can 
be picked up at the St. Mary's College Bookstore after 8:30 a.m. 
Monday thru Friday, and after 9:00 a.m. on Saturdays. 
The Sunday papers are available on a subscription -basis also, 
but no discount is given. Sunday papers can only be picked 
up on Monday. 
The Fall rate, running from September. 5th thru December 14th is 
as listed below: 
Monday thru Friday $23.10 
Monday thru Saturday $26 .·95 
Monday thru Sunday $54.45 
Sunday only $27.50 
The rates above do not include receiving the papers on holidays 
or during exam week. 
To subscribe, please take this form to The St. Mary's Colle3c Bookstore.To guarantee your paper for the first day on Septembei 5, please s1gn up by September 2nd. Any orders received after September 5th will be pror3ted accorjing to the number of deliver" 
days left in the term. ' 
A New Yo1k Time's ID card will be issued to you when you sign U?­Please show this ID card e3ch day when you pick u~ your paper. 
------------------------------------~-----~----------------------­
Please m~ke check payable to The St. Mary's College Bookstore. 
~-~E----------------------------­
ADDRESS___________________________ 
FHONE______________________________ 
CLASS or DEPART~1E~T_______________ 

delivery persons 
Part or full lime. Flexible hours and days. Must be at least 18. Must have own car 
and insurance. 
Must be able to work weeke_nds. 
an ho•--to start plus mileage and tips 
Apply m person between 4:30pm and 9:00pm. 
81835 South Bend Ave. 
0
§a 
South Bend, 
IN 46637 ~~ 
0 
8 '·980 Oorntno ·; P1na. Inc:
0 
0 

~oc~~~ooo 
·-· 

The Observer 
Ihe~ _Qbse~ 
is accepting applications for the position of Sports Editor. for more information, call David or ~argaret at 239-S303 


Tuesday, Augus~ 30, 1983-page 15 

EXPONENTIAL, MY DEAR WATSON 

If you have at least two years of graduate or under-~"-
~~ graduate education ahead, and you keep getting clues ~~~ ~ 
that your money is running short, then a two-year Air 41.. Force ROTC scholarship may be the solution. ~ Currently we're seeking young men and women 
who would like to serve their nation as Air Force Officers. ~ Consequently,~ yot•'re majoring in a selected technical/ non-technical scientific, nursing, or pre-medical field, or · can qualify for pilot, navigator, or missile training, then you may be eligible for a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship. The scholarship pays your tuihon, lab fees, (plus incidental fees), books, and $100 per month tax free. And even if you don't qualify for the two-year scholarship, you still receive the $100 a month while enrolled in the Air Force ROTC two-year program. What do we ask in return? That you serve America at least four years as an Air Force officer. Your Air Force ROTC counselor has the details and qualification requirements. Check it out. It might even make your education finances seem elementary. 
Contact Capt. Gomez, (219) 239-6634 about AFROTC at Notre Dame. 
ROTC Bldg. no. 05

BOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 

If there's one thing business calculations, amortizations A powerful combination. students have always needed, and balloon payments. Think business. With this is it: an affordable, busi-The BA-35 means you the BA-35 Student ...fl;•2, ness-oriented calculator. spend less time calculating, Business Analyst. "'V The Texas Instruments and more time learning. One BA-35, the Student Business keystroke takes the place 
TEXAS

Analyst. of many. Its built-in business The calculator is just part INSTRUMENTS Creating useful products 
formulas let you perform of the package. You also get and services for you.
complicated finance, a book that follows most accounting and statistical business courses: the Business functions -the ones that Analyst Guidebook. Busi:Qess usually require a lot of time professors helped us write it, and a stack of reference books, to help you get the most out like present and future value of calculator and classroom. 
<:· 1983 Texa•; Instrument., 
•·.. ··lr-· 7' ·.. ·~. ·~ ".\·· 

-----------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 16 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East w L Pet. GB Baltimore 75 52 591
• • . Summer 
Milwaukee 74 56 569 25 Detro•t 73 56 566 3 New York 71 57 555 45
continuedfrom page 20 

•There were two coaching changes over the summer. John 
Toronto 72 60 545 55 Boston 62 69 473 15
Blair Kiel decided to take the same route as l9H I All-American Schumate, who had been helping out Digger Phelps, accepted the 
Cleveland 57 75 432 20 5 
Bob Crable and got married in the summer before his senior year. head coaching job at Grand Canyon College, an NAJA school. Pat 
West 

Chtcago 73 57 562 Kansas C1ty 64 65 496 65 
Kid married his high school sweetheart in Columbus, Indiana. Knapp, an assistant coach on the women's basketball team, is now 
the head coach at New Mexico State. Knapp, who helped Mary DiS­
Oakland 65 66 469 95 
tanislao build up the women's basketball program over the past 
Cahforn1a 60 71 456 13 5 
•The basketball team also made news over the summer bv travel­
Texas 60 71 456 13 5 
three years, will take his coaching and recruiting skills to Las Cruces,ing to Yugoslavia for a series of games. Graduating senior Bill Var­
M1nnesota 51 75 432 17
N. M., where the team finished last season with an I l-l S record. 
Seanle 50 61 362 23 5
ner was especially impressive. A ninth-round draft pick by the NBA's 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East 

Milwaukee Bucks, Varner also left open the possibility that he would 
play in Europe. •In news involving other sports, Steve Dziabis, a track standout 
w L Pet. GB After the team returned from the trip, senior Tom Sluby was 
who graduated in May, was awarded a S2000 NCAA post-graduate 
Ptllsburgh 67 62 519 Montreat 65 63 506 1 5 
scholarship for excellence in academics and athletics. He owned a
named captain of the 19H~-H-l squad. 
Phtladelphta 65 63 506 1 5 
~.64 GPA as a pre-med and joins Paxson who also was awarded a 
St LOUIS 64 64 500 25
Varner was one of three Irish basketball players chosen in last 
Chtcago 56 72 446 95
scholarship.

June·~ draft. Tim Andree, who also has the option to play in Europe, 
New York 53 77 406 14 5 
Larry Gallo's baseball team finished its season by grabbing fourthwas chosen in the third round by the Chicago Bulls. 
West 

place in the Midwest City Conference playoffs. The Irish lost to 
Los Angeles 76 53 589 Atlanta 76 55 580 1 
AII-AmericanJohn Paxson was the 21st player chosen in the first eventual-champion Oral Roberts and Detroit in the playoffs.
round when the San Antonio Spurs picked him to run its run-and-gun 
Houston 66 62 523 85 
Former Irish track star Chuck Aragon finished third in the ISOO­
San Otego 65 67 492 12 5 San Franc,sco 62 69 473 15 
offense. Paxson has not signed a contract, however, and San Antonio 
meter run in the recent Pan American games.
papers have reported that the Spurs arc thinking about trading him. 
Under New M~nagement!



r-------------------------,
I Welcome Students! I 
GRSAt \Vt'LL 
Chinese Americaa Restalralt I Cocktail Lounge
I I 
•BlAND NEW CHEF •BRAND NEW STYLE
I *Airline Tickets I 
AUTHENTIC SZECHAUN AND HUNAN TASTE 
I
I I
*Amtrak 
LUNCH SPECIAL 

I FREE
I *United Limo -To/From Chicago I 
ANY COMBINATION PLATE I HOUSE 
FORONLY I
I *Complete Travel Services 1 
INCLUDES SOUP. EGG ROLL $295 I WINE 
FRIED RICUNTREE 

AND HOT TtA WITH ANY IDINNER ORDER 
I Come Visit Us At: Badin Hall 239-7080 I 
WITH THIS AD GOODTHRU
1 Notre Dame I 
8-31-83 
1 Special Offer: Hagger College Center 284-5606 I 
Brian & Mary G. appearing every NotreDame!ArmyGame St. Mary's I 
Friday & Saturday 9pm -lam
Weekend in New York City 
I 
I 
October 15, /983 

I 
272-73761 ticket. hotel. and more. ,.source IIncludes: Airfrom South Bend, 
130 Dixie Way South, South Bend ~Roseland)
I 1
$199perpersondoub!eoccupancy ~Travel 
(Next to Randall's Inn) OPOI7 DAYS A WE£1l 

~-------------------------~ 

-----~----------------------------, 
The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983-page 17 
• • . Frosh 

c,mtinuedfrom page 20 
make a strong impact on the team as the season progresse~. 
Other freshman who have seen 

action with the second unit so far 
this fall include S-9. I ""2-lb. split end 
Alonzo Jefferson. Steve Beuerkin. a 
6-3. 19'5-lb. quarterback. 6-S. 235-lb. 
defensive end Robert Banh. Steve 
Lawrence. a 6-0, 180-lb. cornerback. 
and 5-I I. I 70-lb. cornerback Troy 
Wilson. 
Under the tutelage of first-year of­

knsive coordinator and second-year 
quarterback coach Ron Hudson, 
Beuerlein. who hails trom the same 
high school as last year's backup, Jim 
O'Hara, has been especially ap­
preciative of the transition to col­
legiate level footbalL 
"I'm getting coached more and 

am working more on technique," 
says the Fullerton, Cal. native. "In 
high school I was always team­
instructed, now I'm instructed as an 
individual. Coach Hudson really 
knows what he's talking about and 
has shown me new ways to do old 
things." 
Last year's Ohio prep player ofthe 
year and USA Today first-team tail­
back. Hiawatha Francisco, seems to 
be in the same position that Allen 
Pinkett was in as a freshman last 
year. Pinkett started on the third 
squad last vear. hut was soon the 
buz7 of the campus when he filled in 
tor the tllJUred l1reg Bell and Phil 
Carter 
1-rancisco. "II" as he is dubbed tJ\· 
teammate:-. lla' ai~<• heen workmg 
with the tl11rd untt this fall and ac· 
cept:-. it gract:tull·. 
"I reallt<' tllev·re talented·· savs 
1-rane~,co oi th,· competition 
planng ahead of h1111. "I m not 
expcctmg to walK 111 and takl· O\Tr." 
!.ike the rest of hi' classmates. like 
Pinkett last vear. "II" b simply 
waiting for the chance to compete. 
lie and other members of Notre 
Dame's freshman class could 
probably start and even star at other 
institutions by their second year. 
But football is just part of the 
package at Notre Dame. 
James Bobb. a safety from Texas, 
perhaps best summarized the attrac­
tion and lure of Notre Dame. 
"I took it in perspective," says 
Bobb, a National Honor Society 
member. "I was looking for a school 
where I fit in with the people on the 
campus and the people on the team. 
Notre Dame has just what I wanted.'' 
For Banks. who was named as na­
tional high school "Player of the 
Year" lw the Columbus (Ohio) 
Touchdown Club. the attraction 
came down to the coaching stall's 
concern h>r the well-being of the 
plavers bevond the gridiron. 
And contrarv to what mam· people think two sub-par football season~ in a row has hardlv tarnished the image of Notre Dame through­out the countn· 
"I'Oo one said anvthmg had about Notrt· Dam•· whilt-I wa~ being recruited." :-.a'·' Rehder. "In tac: when I mentione•.l that J wa' con~1tknng '\otn Dame uthe:· recruitt>r.' :-.eemed to have gottett wornnl about it and d1tl a double 
~;tk 
Ha.,ICalh. till' 1, tht· place to he· -a··, \lillt'' "Thh t' tamil• Th• t.tknl 1, J•t·re .md vou lUSt know that thmg·· arc ~omg t, • get rollm~ :.round here· 
Mavhl' it i' a coinl'idcnce but thL· uppt·rda~~men llave been sanng the same thmg ~mce spnng 
GOOD USED CARS CHEAP 

28~7016 AskforDon 208 E. Sample 
TH€ TYPICAL NA\IV MAN'~ LOCI<€R. We know home's o hard place to leave. £lut if you think it looks good, just wait rill you have been around .. after you've skied in the Alps. f1shed in New Zealand hiked in Spain. and gone swimming in the Aegean .. as a Navy officer We really aren't kiddtng when we soy. "Join the Navy and 
see the world:· 

NROTC SCHOLARSHIPS AND COLLEGE PROGRAM BENEFITS WORTH UP TO $30,000 ARE AVAILABLE TO QUAliFIEDNOTRE DAME. SAI"'T MARY'S.IUSB. HOLY CROSS, AND BETHEL COLLEGE STUDENTS. 
CONTACT NROTC, NOTRE DAME· 239-64420R THE SOUTH BEND NAVY RECRUITING OFFICE· 233-3911 tor details. 
I TROPICAL PLANTS 
I "While They Last" 
Rubber Plants Areka Palms Ficus Cactus Boston Ferns Hibiscus Marginata Dieffenbaccia Colorama Pines Aralia 
Everything must go 
Permit expires Sept. 7 Every plant under the tent must go 1/2 price 
We have plants starting at 
$.75 to $15.95 
from 3" to 5' tall Yes we can enhance your decor... 
See us under the big yellow tent. .. 1711 South Bend Ave 1 mile east of N.D. Next to Turtle Creek 

\X/ hat you need to tackle the higher mathematics of a sctence or engmeenng cur­nculum are more functwns ­more functiOns than a stmpie slide-rule calculator has. 
Enter the TI-55-II, with 112 powerful functions. You can work faster and more accurately with the Tl-55-ll, because it's preprogrammed 
01983 Texas Instruments 

to perfurm complex calcula­tions-like dehmte integrals. linear regresston and hyper­boiLCs-at the touch of a button. And it can also be · programmed to do repetitive problems without re-entering the entire formula. 
Included is the Calculator Decision-Making Sourcebook. It makes the process of using the Tl-55-li even sunpkr, and shows vou how to use all the power of the calculator. 
Get to the answers taster. Let a TI-55-ll _.is show you how. ~ 
TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 


The Observer Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 18. 
You're traveling to a new dimension ... a dimension not only of sight and sound, but of fun... 
Rock with Adrenaline on North Quad at 8:30 
-S.cavenger Hunt leaves LaFortune front steps at 3:00 Outdoor Roller Skating at STepan Courts, 7 pm. Skates will be provided, but remember your I.D. and socks. 
Trinity plays at Fr. Sorin's statue at noon Stepan Mall at Stepan Center 10·6, will include all those important items for your room 
Shenanigans will sing at Fr. Sorin's statue at noon Stepan Mall continues 10·6 Dance Under the Stars 9:00 at the library reflecting pool 

Taste of N.D.·-a variety of foods available at Stepan field 11·2. North Dining Hall will be closed. Sponsored by N.D. Food Service Carne Picnic .. at Stepan Field, food 4·6, field games and "Par Ill" til 7:oo..cosponsored N.D. Food Service Cartoons at Stepan--10:30 Blazing Saddles ..11:00 pm at Stepan for $1.00 

Air Band competition--get your air band together to compete at Fr. Sorin's statue 12·4 Chance to Dance at the Polish Wedding, Stepan Center 9:00 
-~j}.t~.5J.f_".0.\7___ ~Q)/'0\:\? Bus trip to Warren Dunes, tickets available 
-( 1 '~ &V\_\J at S.U. Record Store. 


1983 Schedule 
Sept. 10-Purdue (Ross-Ade Stadium) Sept. 17-Michigan State (Notre Dame Stadium) Sept. 24-Miami (Orange Bowl) Oct. 1 -Colorado (Folsom Field) Oct. 8-South Carolina (Williams-Brice Stadium) Oct. 15-Army (Giants Stadium) Oct. 22-USC (Notre Dam!t Stadium) Oct. 29-Navy (Notre Dame Stadium) Nov. 5-Pittsburgh (Notre Dame Stadium) Nov. 12-Penn State (Beaver Stadium) Nov. 19-Air Force (Notre Dame Stadium) 




GRAND OPENING 
CAPEZIO'S DANCE STORE 


~t~.~j-> 
t CAPEllO t DANSKIN t CARUSHKA t CATHY GEORGE t A full lmt' lor thP [),mcf'r, GymnJ-,t & thP PXt>r< i<.,(• (•nthu-,i.J'>t Al-,o IC'Jturing m,Jk.t>-upc, hy Bob i<l'llv. BPn Ny('. Stc>ll1 & N<>c,tlt>s; th<>dlri< .JI -,uppiH''> & .1n p<.,<.,Oril''>. 
Save 10% with this ad 
offer expires 9/17 Directions: the corner of Jefferson and niles Ave. across from Emporium restaraunt. 
Mon. thru Fri. 10-6, Sat. 10-5 Phone 234-8052 
Lichtenberg gone 

Ara's aide joins coaching staff 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
.SjJOrts Writer 
While you've been away . 

Tom Lichtenberg, receiver coach and recruiting coordinator for Notre Dame's 1983 football squad, resigned from his position onJuly 2 I to become assistant athletic director at Iowa State. 
Lichtenberg was an assistant coach at Iowa State from 1974-78 before becoming head coach at Morehead State in I979. lie then came to Notre Dame in I981 as Ger­ry Faust's offensive coordinator -a position that was given to Ron Hud­son this spring. Lichtenberg also coached the quarterbacks in 1981. 

~=@a:ol'o] 
Traditional Italian Cuisine Fettucini-Lasagna-Veal Parmiagiana Bucatini Con Broccoli Pizza 
277-0578 
18455 South Bend Ave. (1 mile east of Notre Dame) 

back Stacey Toran .... Scannell is still resting his knee from surgery 
Lunch-Dinner-Carry-outs 
Complete wine & cocktail list 
last May, but is expected, like the
Closed Sunday & Monday 

rest of the injured starter~ to be more than ready fi1r the Purdue
Reservations Accepted 
opener .... Freshman !lanker Alvin Miller was still tending to a twisted ankle on Saturday .... Sophomore linebacker John McCabe scored a touchdown when he recovered a fumble in the end zone. 
""" 
Mike Stock 

Replacing Lichtenberg as receiver coach and recruiting coordinator is 43-year old Mike Stock. Stock is no stranger to the Notre Dame scene since he had previously served as the Irish receiver coach from I969· 7-i under Ara Parseghian. 
Afier Parseghian resigned in I9'4. Stock was given the position of of· fensive coordinator for Wisconsin from t I97S-77. He next served as the head coach at Eastern Michigan from I978-82 before becoming the offensive backfield coach for the USFL's NewJersey Generals. 
... Scrimmage 
continuedfrom page 20 
Gann. Gann, who had sat out spring practice to nurse knee surgery from last year, was imposing the whole af­ternoon as he was involved in four sacks for over 30 yards. Safety joe Johnson, meanwhile, had a hand in three blitzes that netted 16 yards in losses. 
IRISH ITEMS -Mike Johnston kicked field goals of 44 and 28 yards afier missing a 36-yard attempt ear­lier . . . . Besides t Bavaro, other injured starters included guard Tim Scannell, flanker Mike IIaywood, defensive tackle Eric Dorsev. linebacker Rick Naylor and corne~­

All from your Student Union 
--·--------··-:-------------------------------------------·--------~-·------~_., _______..____ ........._-------~ 
-.t..s.-. 


~~cJlC3l~----------------------------------------T-u-es_d_a_y,_A_u_g_u_st_3_0_,_1_9_8_3___ ..9
P_ag•e-1 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 

4 Intervening

Saturday's Solution 5 -City, 49 Musical Cal. composition 6 Author 51 Constructed Levin 52 Marshal 7 Western 53 Pass a rope lawmen through 8 Sensational 55 Subject of 9 One in an Aristoph· possession anes play 10 Fetid 56 Gil­12 Barrel part 57 Beauty mark 14 "-Is Born" 58 Chinese 15 When living weight creatures 59 Preminger were 60 Take it ©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. created easy
B/30/83

All Rights Reserved 8/30/83 17 Deranged 63 Heel 
SHMEN 
The po.rrot, "f'propr,ohl y o<U'le:J ''r.nJver'' Knew mo~f of file Song "ernofion.J rescue' and.wa..s ret.enf/,1 learmn5 "Cief ofF oF my' cloud " as fo/J by tJI'ot-ionally J,s/raug> b•nJ lf1ember,I.'Ji/IIJymQ.n. Tl-.e /<,!fer's mohv~ •s u.nknown Q/· Hus firne bul we'!/ have more on fh 1s d1sastr~I.Ls sfor1 a~,t develops.. and now, bw h you. Blrf 
Y1 • 
ACROSS 1 Forgery 5 Party fare 8 Frightening

The Daily Crossword word 
11 Joyce Carol­r.--.-::--,...,.,.-, 13 Venezuela copper town 15 Guinea hen f=-+--11-+~ 16 Highest18 Area in 
Morocco 19 Three-fold 20 Supplied 
with men 22 Little­23 Sellerof 

property 24 Peer Gynt's 1-+--11-+-1-~ mother 27 Pinza 
. Ca.mpus ­
WELCOME WEEK ACTIVITIES 
TODAY 
3 p.m. -Scavenger Hunt from LaFortune 7-10 p.m. -Rollerskating at Stepan basketball courts 
'd!' 

TOMORROW 
9 a.m-6 p.m.-Stepan Mall in Stepan Center Noon -Trinity at Father Sorin statue 3·4:30 p.m. -Sophomore Ice Cream Social 
THURSDAY 
9 a.m.-6 p.m. -Stepan Mall Noon -Shenanigans at Father Sorin statue 3 p.m. -Five kilometer run 8 p.m. -Transfer-student forum in Library Auditorium. 9 p.m. -Dance under the Stars at the Library reflecting pool 
FRIDAY 

4-i p.m. -Carne Picnic with Par Ill and interdorm field games 
10:30 p.m. -Cartoons at Stepan 11 p.m.-"Blazing Saddles" at Stepan 
SATURDAY 
Noon-4 p.m. -Air-band competition 9 p.m.-Polish Wedding at Stepan Center 
SUNDAY 

All day-Trip to Warren Dunes on Lake Michigan 10 a.m.-Senior Class Mass 4:30p.m. -Junior Class Mass I 0 p.m. -Senior Class Mass 
The Far Side 

"Well,. here comes Mr. Hunter and Gatherer with another useless treasure." 
29 Sound in the stadium 
30 Doubles champ of yore 
32-homo 34 Snake River state 
38 Half of a Shakespeare title 
40 Gave 42 Garden insect 43 Indian 
otter 45 Days of old 46 Remnant 48 Move 50 Ballet step 51 Annoys 54 Cry 
John Gibbs 
56 U Nu, e.g. 57 Teacher's helper 
61 Calabria 
cash 62 Mediocre 64 A King 65 Elliptical 66 Creator of 
"Golden 
Boy" 67 Piggery 68 Dutch 
commune 69 Coin receiver 
DOWN 1 Compliant 2 Nicety 3 Town in 
Italy 

21 Delon of 
the screen 23 Fabled bird 24 -mater 25 From-to 
nuts 26 Engrave 28 Religious 
picture 31 Welles film (with "The") 33 Prepare for 
publication 35 Above 36 Sister 
of Zeus 37 Pindar 
output 39 Saying 41 Prayer 44 Mule's kin 47 Plaster 
of Paris 
~"lllllllllltlllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiHIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItltll81111tlllll..lllll: AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS fiddler on the roof Wanted: Actors, Singers, Dancers No Previous Experience Necessary Thurs Sept 1 Chautdqua Fri Sept 2 2nd Fir Lafortune Ballroom :{:7:00PM .:-~~. ~lllllllltll•t,IHIIIIHIIIIIIIIHttllllltiiUt.-IIIIHIHIIIIaiHitllllltllfiHIH...II ......  

Stepan Mall 
Wed. Aug 31 and Thurs. Sept 1 10AM • 6PM Stepan Center 
Featuring Furniture, plants, graphic artss lumber and Used Book Excha~ge and Refrigerator Rentals A SERVICE OF YOUR STUDENT UNION 

,.-.... 

~-------------------~ --­


S~orts 
Starters rest, some reserves shine as squad plays first fall scrimmage 
By I.OUIE SOMOGYI 
~jwrts lr·ritt'r 
Two week~ bdi>re it~ opening ganll' again~t Purdue, the Notrl· Dallll' football squad held it~ 11rst fall scrimmage on Saturday in the '-tadium. 
"I would have hated to have played l'urdul· today," llead Coach (it.·rry !';lUst told his squad alter the two-and-one-half-hour practice. "We looked awfully sluggish out there." 
bust did admit, though, that a lot of the sluggishness could be at­tributed to the week long two-a-days that were just completed on Friday. 
The No. I units on ott'ense and defcnsl' did not compete against each other as they did in the spring. Rather. the main purpose was to test ditt'erent individuals from the back­up units and analyze their perfor­mance. 
Thou~h the overall scrimmage may havt· heen disappointing for the coaches, there were some very pleasant surprises at the tight end and q uartcrhack positions. 
Ever since Tony llunter, a first­round draft pkk in last April's NFL 
draft. completed his senior season last year, a top priority li>r the team has been to tlnd someone to take his place. lkspite never having caught a pass in his collegiate cart.·er, sopho­more Mark Bavaro solidly es­tahlished himself as the No. I tight t.•nd with a stt'fling spring perfor­mance. The depth behind Bavaro, however, was still suspect. & d
A minor thigh injury .orce Bavaro to sit out the scrimmage and gave his top hackups, juniors Brian Behmt.'f and Ricky <ir;ty a better 
chant.·e to display their all-around 
talents. (iray and Behmer promptly 
went on to he the top two pass
receivers on Saturday. Gray caught four passes for ';6 yards while Bt.·­hmer fat<:hnf on to three passes for y; yards. Faust ~l·emed fairlv pleased and rdit'vt·d to sl·e that ·the tight end . . . . 1
posrtton r~ comtng togd 1er very · well this fall. 

..:~~!!;:~!;_-----------~=...:.~..:__.:.__.:.:.,_____ 
"Ricky has come a long way since the spring," praised Faust, "and Brian has been doing a r(•al good job for us." 
Another top priority for the team has been to gl·t solid back-up sup­port for quarterback Blair Kicl. 
junior Scott Grooms, who ran the No. I offense on a couple of occas­sions Saturdav. has continued the strong hold o~ the position that he has had since the spring. He was especially impressive in a drive against the No. 2 defense when the two-minute drill was employed, and when the only way to "win" was to score a touchdown. Grooms, in taking the unit 55 yards for the score in only six plays, accounted for 41 of the yards. himself. After running for five yards on the first play, Grooms then completed a 19-yard pass to Be­hmer and an eight-yard screen to tailback Greg Bell. Two plays later, Grooms escaped a strong pass rush and made a nifty nine-yard scramble into tht· end zone. 
But perhaps the most pleasant surprise of the afternoon was fresh­man quarterback Steve Beuerlcin. Beuerlcin, who has worked with the No. 2 unit this fall, continues to get hetter with each practice. Beuerlein 
was 6-for-12 on the afternoon for 
l.:\4 yards, including a 61-yard touchdown pass to Van Pearcy. On the 61-yard touchdown play, 
Beuerlein scrambled away from a very heavy rush put on hy fellow freshman Robert Banks, hitting 
Pearcy .:\0-yards downfield. He also led the second unit to another score against the No. 2 defense when he drove the team 65 yards in just four 
plays in a two-minute drill. 
In that drive, Beuerlein drilled a 

2.:\-yard pass to Gray between two
defenders and a 17-yard pass on the run to freshman split end Alonzo Jel~ ferson (a play where the officials did not see Beuerlein pass the line of Scrl·m n·•o~ h~~ore releasing the
' I u,.,~ ~ ' hall). Tailback Lester Flemons the lc'allt'no rusher <>n the day with 44
,., · . . yards on nme carnes, dashed the final 22·yanls for the touchdown.
, . . . , . . . \\ htle the rc were t} ptcal fresh­

man mistakes made by Beuerlcin, such as being whistled for three delay-of-game penalties, it was, as Faust said afterwards, a good perfor­mance for a freshman's first scrimmage. 
No surprises came from what may he the nation's best one-two punches at tailback and fullhack in the nation. Tailhacks Allen Pinkett and Greg Bell. along with fullbacks Chris Smith and Mark Brooks saw limited action. 
"We pretty well know what they can do," explained Faust. 
Smith showed what he can do on the first possesion when he, cour­tesy of a massive hole opened up by tackle Larry Williams and guard Neil Maune, romped 36 yards for a touch­down on his only carry. Brooks had his own breakaway gains of 14 and 27 yards on his four carries. Pinkett, meanwhile, toted the ball three times for 19 yards while Bell picked up 22 yards on two carries. 
Kiel also saw limited action as he participated in only four series. He completed 1 0-of-19 passes for 112 yards, but did throw one intercep­tion as freshman defensive back Scott Rogers made an impressive diving grab in front ofjoe Howard. 
On the defensive sid t e of things, the No. 1 defense simply dominated the No. 2 and No. 3 offenses. Of the six series in which the No. 1 defense was involved, 19 of those plays in the series resulted in negative yard­age or no yardage for the offense. 
Highlighting the strong defensive performance was flip tackle Mike see SCRIMMAGE, page 18 
Tuesday, August 30, 1983 -page 20 

Obsernr pholo/ScoU Bower 
Freshman quarterback Steve Beuerlein looked impressive m Saturday's scrimmage, easing GenJ• Faust's worries about a back­up to Blair Kiel. The backup tight ends also lookedgood on Satur­day, helping to fill another bole. For more on the scrimmage, see story at left. 
Ad.JUSt•IDg to college 11·fe 

Freshmen get used to new game 
d k
By THERON ROBERTS an For the last two-and-a-half wee s, I.OUIE SOMOGYI 28 of those freshman have already J<·ports Wrt'ters experienced some of the pains and pleasures that come with adjusting 
For som.e I,800 Notre Dame to the collegiate scene at Notre freshman, the next four years will of-Dame. fer a challenge of mental and The 28, this year's scholarship spiritual growth freshman football players, comprise
~:..;,:;~:.:::.:...:.:,________________;.....;...____, 

Notre Dame athletes keep busy over summer 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Assistant Sport5 Editor 

Thl·rl· was a lot of news over the summer involving Notre Dame athletes and thl· Notre Dame athletic department. In case you were too busy wor~ ing or sunning, here is an update. 
•Nearlv 
every preseason college football poll rated Notre Dame among the top ten teams in the country, indudi~g a num~er one ranking hy Tbe Sporting News. In making the Irish tts top chotee,.the magazine admitted it was choosing "a longshot, hut one that JUSt might deliver." Other high rankings for Notre Dame came from ciamePian (No.2 ),Street & Smith (No.6), and USA Today (No.7). There will he a consensus poll that will appear in The Observer next week. 

•The 
198-i opening game against Purdue that was scheduled to be played in Notre Dame Stadium will now he the dedicatio~ ga~e of Hoosier Dome, a domed stadium that is under construction m In­dianapolis. Both schools accepted the invitation oflndianapolis busi­nessman Robert Welch who spearheaded the drive to construct the new stadium. Notre Dame will be the home team and will receive most of the tickets. 

•The 
five Notr~ Dame foothall players who were drafted by the NFI. last April had mixed fortunes. The twelfth player chosen in the draft, Tony Hunter, has people in Buffalo excited so far with his play in the preseason. Hunter has signed a big contract with the. Bills. 


Larry Moriarity appears to have a .good chance to start m the same backfield with Earl Campbell in Houston. Moriarity, furious when he was not chosen in the early rounds (he was picked in the tifth ), so impressed his coach Ed Biles that Biles proclaimed that he should have been a set.ond-round pick. When he heard this, Moriarity lashed out at the Notre Dame coaches for using him sparingly after outstanding performances in his first two games last 
season. 

Dave Duerson, a third-round pick by the Chicago Bears, is competing for a starting job in the Chicago secondary and has been tried as a kick returner. 
A herniated disk is holding Mark Zavagnin out for this season. A 
ninth-round choice hy the Bears, Zavagnin will attempt to join the team next season. Mark Fischer signed as a free agent with Buffalo and has a good chance to make the tina! cut before the regular season. After jumping to the USFL, Tom Thayer immediately joined the starting lineup of the Chicago 6litz. 
Things did not go too well for the other 1983 graduates. Bob Clasby was cut recently by the Seattle Seahawks after being picked in the ninth round of the draft. Phil Carter and Rod Bone both signed as free agents with the Dallas Cowboys but were cut early in the preseason. Carter also failed in an attempt with Tampa Bay. 
•Some Notre Dame alumni were in the news. Jeff Weston, a member of the 1977 national championship team, announced his retirement from football. Weston, a five-year veteran of the New York Giants, missed most of the 1982 season with an injury. He is interested in working for the F.B.I. 
Another member of the 1977 team, Ross Browner, testified in a federal courtroom on june 27 that he bought cocaine from a Cincin­nati man charged with drug-related crimes. The Cincinnati Bengal lineman was granted immunity from prosecution by a federal court in exchange for his testimony. He was not immune, however, from the ruling of NFI. Commissioner Pete Rozelle who suspended Browner for four games without pay. 
John Krimm. a 1982 graduate, will miss the entire season with an injury. The New Orleans Saint cornerback injured his knee in the preseason. 
Chicago Blitz defensive back Luther Bradley was named AII­USFL after leading the new league in interceptions. Bradley set a USFl. .record with six interceptions in one game. 
•In other news, freshman quarterback Steve Beuerlein threw the winning touchdown pass in the California Interscholastic Federation All-Star Game. 
The other highly-touted freshman quarterback recruit Joe Felitsky has been red-shirted this year to recover from surgery to correct an intestinal disorder. 
see SUMMER, page 16 
1~----------------------------------------------~
1 

tt 
b 11 c h G F ' 
Head Foot a oac erry aust s third straight freshman class that
& h b 
•eatures talent good enoug to e ranked among the very best recruit­ing crops in the nation. 
Of all the talented players, however, perhaps none matches the talent of Kirkwood, Missouri native, 
Alvin Miller. The 6-4, 205-lb. flanker 
was selected as Parade magazine "Player of the Year" this pa...,t season -an honor that ha..o; previously been bestowed on last year's tleisman Trophy winner Herschel Walker, la..o;t year's Heisman runner-up Eric Dickerson, and last year's first soph­omore offensive lineman in recent memory to make first-team all­America, Bill Fralic ofPittsburgh. 
The athletic prowess ofMiller wa..'i perhaps best demonstrated in la..o;t spring's Missouri state track meet where he won the I00-and 200­meter dashes along with the 1 I 0­and 300-meter hurdles to win the state crown for Kirkwood High School. 
His 40-yard dash has been clocked in 4.45, and his size and great leaping ability should make life difficult for defensive backs who are a..<;signed to cover him. 
Yet, even an athlete of Miller's stature cannot avoid the emotional effects that come with adjusting and playing big-time collegiate football at Notre Dame. 
"It's been really a scary ex­perience to go out and play against some of the best players in the country that are here," admits Miller who speaks for the class of 1987 as a whole. "We haven't got it together yet. We're still learning. You realize real quick when you're out there O'l the field that you're a freshman." 
Nevertheless, Miller has been one of six freshman who are or have been working with the second-team units this fall, and who can perhaps 
see FROSH, page 17 










