AnTostal-page 3 

VOL XVIll, NO. 42 the intkpcntknt ~tutknt ncw~papcr ~crYin~ notre daml· and ~ainl man·-. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER l, 198."1 

Hesburgh rejects Observer plan for third ptarty accountability 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON 
Assistant News Editor 
University President Flther Theodore Hcsburgh has rejected an Observer proposal to control its own budget and reinforced the lin iver­sity's demand that Tbe Obsen1er join the Notre Dame budget program by 

Jan. I. 
Editor-in-chief David Dziedzic said The Observer will not consent to going on Notre Dame's Unit Budget Control System despite the 
· llniversity's contention that it will cut off approximately S70,000 in NO student fees, if the paper does not comply. 
In a letter last Thursday to Dzied­zic, Hcsburgh said he under:>tood the need for The Observer to have editorial independence "to the ex­tent you arc free, except in the ·~vent that you do something outrageous. I believe the action of the administra­tion in granting operational editorial independence to The Observet· over the past decade is there for eve1-yone to see." 
Dziedzic said that the key objec­tion to the University proposal hinges on editorial freedom. "The (unit budget) system would Sl~vere­ly curtail The Observer's indepen-. dence. It would allow the University to dictate how much monty we could spend and for what pt.rpose we could spend it." 
"If we can't work on projects we see as important to work on, then we are hindered editorially," he S<cid, ad­ding that "even the implication that (The Observer's) finances are being run by someone else is a sever·~ blow to the paper's integrity." 
Deeming the dispute between the newspaper and the administration a 

An editorial 
"tempest in a teapot, a crisis without an issue," Hesburgh said that both sides agree about both editorial freedom and the need for the paper to have financial accountability. 
He added, however, that all or­ganizations within the University are required to be financially ac­countable for their actions and that The Observer is no exception. "We're all accountable but we have freedom ofoperation within that ac­countability. It's a natural principle: 
we are using other people's money 
and have to be accountable for it." 
Hesburgh said he is willing to "put 
it in writing" that the University will 
not interfere with editorial content 
ofthe paper, except in the event ofa 
"preposterous" or "outrageous" ac­
tion by the paper. He said he would 
agree "to have a third party judge if 
something is preposterous." 
Dziedzic maintained that an agreement in writing would not be sufficient. "I in no way doubt the sin­cerity of Father Hesburgh. I believe they are dedicated to the idea of an editorially free paper," he said. "But, I'm worried about their successors who might see an editorial about University investments or some­thing else they don't like, and sec pulling finances as a way ofresolving the oroblem." 
"If the University has the money, who's to stop tJtem from breaking (the written agreement)? In the past, the University has never forced The Obsen1er into doing anything. If it had our money it could force us into doing many things." 
"The one thing (the newspaper) 
won't compromise on .. .is third 
party accountability," Dziedzic said. 
The University's demand to 
assume ultimate financial control of The Observer's finances comes in the wake of a University-conducted audit last summer which revealed a $7,000 deficit from last year's Ob­server operation and several cases of financial mismanagement by mem­bers of the '82-'83 Observer general 
board. 
Dziedzic said that he was "very 
disappointed and surprised" that 
Hesburgh did not consider the Ob­
server counter-proposal in his letter 
nor did he contact him to discuss the 
matter. "The letter was extremely 
vague. ( Hesburgh) does not even 
say why he doesn't agree with our 
proposal." 
Dziedzic said he wrote to Hes­
burgh personally to discuss the mat­
ter "and all I got back was a letter 
saying he's referring me to someone 
else." 
In his letter, Hesburgh proposed 
that Dziedzic meet with Executive 
Assistant to the President David 
Tyson and Student Body President 
Brian Callaghan to work out a com­
promise. 
Hesburgh said he wanted Callag­
han to be present "since we're 
talking about student money .. .it's 
reasonable that the students' top 
representative should at least know 
what's going on." 
Dziedzic said he has always been 
willing to discuss the matter with 
Callaghan, but he added that 
"ultimately, it is something which 
has to be worked out between the 
University and The Observer" 
~lnibrroitu of ~otu ~amt 
~Pfrt ~nmt, ,;Jnbiana 46556 
October 27, 1983 
Nr. David J. Dziedzic The Observer Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear David: 
I have had your letter discussed by the committee with which you met oricjnAlly to discuss the same matter. Personnlly, I believe this is a tempest in a teapot, a crisis without an issue. ~at you want is very simple: editorial independence to the extent that you are free, t'xcept in the event that you do something outrageous. On this point, there is no need for discussion. I believe the action of the administration in r;rantine operational editoriAl independence to The Observer over the past decade is there for everyone to see. F.ven when I was personally attacked outrnr;eousl.y and unfairly a feH times, I never did anything about it. 
The second point is accountability for the money you spend, much of which we collect and (Jive you to spend. There is no room for nec:otiation on this principle and you yourself adJllit it. The only problem is to discuss the way of doing it most appropriately and most effectively nnd with the least cost, since this money should not be spent foolishly. I believe a simple mcth0cl which is bindinc on all of us here at the University, includinr. me, should be aereeable t~ you and your staff. However this is settled, it would seem to r.te that it should he under a system currently in operation that eives before-the-expendi.ture accountability, not simply a look-bark at expenditures nfter the horse is ·out of the barn. I have nt:!ver felt that havinr; two sic:natures on the checks I sign is an obstacle to my freedom, only a protection for those whose money is beinr. spent. 
I have ashed father Dnve TysoD, m,y ~ecuti.ve Assistant, 
t.o meet with you and worl·. out these two points. Apparently, we are both acreed on el'!dl point. The only probler.l l s for you to accept some r<:>alisti c r.1eans Cor achieving your end or the barc:ain, a~ WP. are prepared to do as rer,ards curs. 
All best wishes. 

P.S.: I would also request that the Student Body President, Brian Calla(;han, be present at the meeting with you and Father Tyson. 

Tyson said he hoped to reach an L----------------------------.J understanding by accepting parts of the Observer proposal. "I can go This is a copy ofthe letter Universi~y President Father Theodore along with most of (the paper's M. Hesburgh sent to David Dziedzic, Observer editor-in-chief, last proposal) including the section that week in response to the Obsen,er's proposalfor third party accoun­
tability. SeejeffHarrington's story at leftfor more details. 
see REJECT page 5 



No1tre Dame and The Observer: mutual mistrust 
The University believes it can control The Observer's finances without endangering ·:he paper's editorial indepen­dence. The administration sees the two as separate issues. 
llnfortunately, The Observer has no way of testing the ad­ministration's theory, short ofjoining the Unit Budget Control System. Once committed to the system, The Observer would need University approval to break away. 
In short, the University asks us to trust .them. Like the Trojans, The Observer fears tile administration even when bt:aring gifts. 
Why trust administrators who offered a choice and, when The Obsen1er chose contrary to the University's will, told the paper that it never really had a choice in the first place? 
Why trust a president who openly declared at a meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo last spring The Observer was "written by juveniles for juveniles," according to two inde­pendent sources at the meeting of nearly 500? How impartial can such a man be when considering the paper's financial future? 
Why trust administrators who, in the summer of 1975, con­fiscated copies ofThe Observer so visiting alumni wouldn't be offended by criticism of the University, and by an advertise­ment? 
Why trust administrators who try to form a faculty board of advisers behind The Observer'~ back -at the same time they ponder the paper's financial future? 
Why trust administrators who, in their communications, constantly surround their financial judgments with comments on the paper's editorial policies? Witness today's letter to the editor from Dr. James McDonr,ell. 
In fact, FatherJohn Van Wolvlear has complained in at least two official letters about Obsl'1-ver editorial decisions. In an Oct. 10 letter to Saint Mary's Dean of Students Sister Karol Jackowski, he says, "I have consistently pointed out that they have an inordinate amount ofspace allocated to national news and sports whkh come from wire services, and neglect a lot of campus issues and happenings" 
In a Sept. 2 letter to Editor-in-Chief David Dziedzic, Van Wolvlear responscd to the paper's rejection ofthe University offer with a letter that deals primarily with editorial concerns. In that letter, Van Wolvlear first scolds the paper for not joining the budget system. The body ofthe letter criticizes the number ofadvertisements in the previous issue and a story on the death ofthe president ofan Evansville paper. He contends that biographies on Kitty Arnold, Dr. Pat Utz, or Dean Loux "would be ofmore interest to the University community," and that the paper "gave more ink to the death of(the Evansville 
president) than ...the students and priests who died during the summer." The last paragraph ends by criticizing The Ob­server's accounting. 
The Observer welcomes criticism. But the ease with which some administrators condemn first, the paper's finances, and in the next breath, editorial content, makes one wonder how separate the issues arc in their minds. 
Why trust a administration which has everything to gain, and has given The Observer every reason to suspect its motives? 
Hesburgh and the administration pride themselves on their ability to take "outrageous and unfair" criticism. The Observer wonders whether the administration has vented this frustra­tion in the secretive and closed-minded way they've dealt with the paper this year. 
Father Hesburgh, in criticizing the paper's position as a "tempest in a teapot, a crisis without an issue" ignores the issue. The Observer understands the University's position, but disagrees that financial ae<;ountability should be guaranteed "before the expenditure." 
Suppose The Observer had reason to believe that Notre Dame was violating recruiting standards. If the paper needed money to investigate, what recourse would it have if the Uni­versity, looking out for its own image, refused to authorize such funds? 
Though the paper's financial and editorial independence might seem distinct in theory, it is impossible to separate the two in practice. Ifthe University chose not to sign checks, the paper would be powerless. Allowing the University to control the paper's budget is like letting the White House hold the purse-strings of the Washington Post. 
So The Observer faces a Catch-22. In rejecting University­collected funds, the paper would be changed drastically. If the paper were to accept budget control from the administration, it would recognize implicitly the l :niversity's authority to keep the paper on-campus and to say "no" to any financial decisions based on editorial policy. 
Since the administration docs not trust The Obsen'er's past financial accountability, and The Obsen,er does not trust the University to control the paper's budget, a third-party solution seems not only convenient, but essential. A conflict of inter­ests arises when either party has absolute control. 
The Obsen1er is "the independent student newspaper serv­ing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." It is a newspaper first, a student organization afterward. 
As elitist as it may sound, the newspaper is different from every other student organization on campus. One of its most important duties is to offer a daily and university-wide chal­lenge to the administration's words and actions. Regardless of past success or failure in this role, allowing the University to determine which advertisements will appear, who is eligible to work for the paper, and what the overall climate will be, is a step in the wrong direction. 
In 1977, then vice president for student affairs, BrotherJust Paczcsny, informed The Observer that the Officers of Univer­sity had decided that the paper should control all of its money: "To encourage more independent planning of their resources, The Observer should be responsible for its payroll. Therefore, the University will turn over to The Observer the net sum available for that year's operation at the beginning of the school year and The Observer will be responsible for meeting its own payroll and expenses outside of the Univer­sity payroll system." 

Why have administrators changed their minds? Do they want to punish The Observer' If this is their intent, and if the paper were to concede to the system, what would they do the next time The Observer ruffled their fcatbcr.s? • , , . , ... 

The Observer Tuesday, November I, 1983-page 2 

In Brie£ _ 
Dr. James W. Frick,. assistant to the president at Notr<: Dame. ha..~ btTn dn:ted to the University's Board ofTrustees. Fri<:k, who stepped down as vi<:e president for public rdations, alumni affairs and tkvdopent at Notn.· Dame Sept. I, becomes the ·iHth mt·mher of the govnning hoard created in 1967 when nmtrol of till' l 'nivt·r~ity was put into lay hands. -The Ohsen•er 
Michael Aiello, a stutknt on a kavc of absence from Notn: Dame this }'l'ar. died recently. A resident of Armington IIeights, lllinob. Akllo was a mt·mbcr of la.~t year's frt·shman cla.~s. During his freshman year he rt·sidnl at Carroll tlall. Surviving Mic­hael arc st:veral brothers and sisters, including a brother who is a 19H5 graduate. Details concerning the death were unavailable, but a spokcspt·rson from Dean Roemer's office stated that a wake would Jx-hdd today and a funeral mass tomorrow. -The Obsert'L'I' 
Raul Alfonsin and his left-of-center 
Radkal Civic l :nion yesterday won Argentina's first general eke· lions in a dccadt·, replacing the military government. It was a stun­ning dcti.:at for the Pcronist Party which ha..~ dominated national politics for nearly 40 years. The military government that ha..~ ruled since a 1976 coup said Alfonsin and vice presidential runningmatc Victor Martint·z, both attorneys, had received 7.43 million of the more than 14 million ballots ca.~t in Sunday's elections -good for .~I H votes in the dectoral college. The college will meet Nov. 30 to ratify the results. The government says the new leadership will take over by January 19H4, but could move up the date. The Pcronist presidential candidates, former Sen. Italo Luder and his running mate lkolindo Bittc.:l, received 5.71 million votes-258 electoral collcgt· votes. the government said. "We've won the election, but we havt•n't ddt:atnl anyont·." Altimsin, S6, told cheering supporters at party ht·adqu;Jrtt-rs in downtown Buenos Aires as election returns showed the Radicals building an unbeatable advantage. -AP 
Of Interest 
1 ..
An .
tt-nUC ear aCtlVtSt, Dr. IIden Caldicott, presi­tll'nt of Physit:ans ti1r Sot:ial Responsibility, will open this year's Ois­tinguislll·d Aml'rican Women lccturt· series at H tonight in the Library Auditorium. Thrt-c years ago Caldicott resigned as a pl'diatrics instructor at the Harvard Medical School and took a leave of ahSl'lll'l' from tht· cystic t1brosis dink at Children's Hospital in Boston to dl·vote her time to the anti-nuclear movement. She has ht'l'n campaigning against nudcar weaponry since 1971 when she lt-d the: t1rst national dt·monstration in her native Australia against French atom-bomb tests in the South Pacific. -The Obsen,er 
Auditions for "Wheel ofFortune," NBC's popular game show, start tomorrow in the Little Theatre of La Fortunl'. Thost· who signed-up should rcpprt at II :30 a.m., S p.m.. (>:.~0 p.m.. or H p.m. -dl'pt·nding on whichever time wa~< assigned. Sonll· opl'nings still remain at each time. Sign up at Student Activities by I I a.m. tomorrow.-The Ohsen•er 
Sign-ups for the Saint Mary's OXFAM fast begin today through Nov. H in tht' dining hall. Students may also sign up at the Campus Ministry oflin: for the Third Annual Oxford Comittee for Famint· Rclidtast on Nov. 17. Tht· Sm:ialjustice <:omissions and the World llungn Coalition which is co-sponsoring the fast also will be conducting door-to-door sign-ups. -The Ohserr•er 

VVeather · · 
It will be partly cloudy and warmer today, with a 
high of6S. -The Ohsen,er 


Are you confused? 
Arc you confused? 

If so, you have plenty ofcompany. 
The Administration's ultimatum to The Obserz•er ­
join the University budget system or lose ~70,00C worth ofstudent fees-has left many students wonder· ing what exactly is going on. 
The intricacies of this t:niversity decision may have been lost on the average student in the days before fall break. With mid-terms. the Trojans and Cap'n Crunch 
to deal with, many students had little time to do more than skim the newspaper. 
Talk of five digit fees, deficits and financial mis­management arc now whirling around in the heads of most students. Technical jargon concerning interest­free loans, net deficits, double-entry bookkeeping and solicitation of documented sealed bids is lost on the average student. 
Since this is S70,000 worth ofstudent fees being dis­cussed, the students have.: a 
because ofa lack ofa budget and internal controls. The newspaper has openly admitted to a past lack ofinternal controls and proper business procedures and imple­mented or agreed to implement all suggestions in the report. 
Fathc:r Van Wolvlcar's comment that the present 
hoard "will in no way he able to regularize an account­
ing system for future staffs" is certainly a vote of con­
fidence in the ability of students. Because it has never 
been attempted docs not mean that this administration 
should not be given the chance. 
•An interest-free $1,000 loan to the paper's systems manager is not an indication that The Obsen1er makes a regular practice of issuing personal loans to its employees. The Obsen•er isn't in the savings and loan business. The loan helped to finance a car which served 
during business hours as an official Obsen•er vehicle for the news and advertising departments. This is some­thing the University audit report failed to detail. 
___The_Ohser.xer_ 
Composition Editor ....... Thoma' Robert 
Thomas Small Layout Sta[[Cheryt Pilon & Kim Tychsen 7)•pest'(ters... ... Tracy and Ted lVeu•s Editor .................................. Vk Sciulli CoprEtlitor. . ........... Purnima Bose .\jmrtsCopyl:'clitor. .. .......Jl'l'flllumb Editorials l.t~)·out .............. Kl'n Cl·rabona ND Dt~J' Editor.................. Mdinda Moort: .\:1t/C Dt~J' Editor. ............. Mary Ann Pottl.'r AdDesign ................... ............Jeannit• Euch Pb()/ographt•r.... .. ........ ??? Gut•st Appearances......... Pll l'artkrs. Big­hearrt·d Perc and Thorn, Tht· magnifit:enr 
Somogyi and his tlying chair, Wizard and apprt"Otict·, Trick or treat for Micht:lob, A salut~ to PAPA HEAR. th~ most gorgeous sc.:x ~oddess posing a..; a tlapper 
Quote oflh<' Day Comt• join our pari)•, Sf!£' boll' u·e 
fJit~J'...a/1 night long!!!/ 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. eKcept dunng eKam and vacation penods The Obeerver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary·s College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Obeerver. P 0 BoK Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Obeerver is a member of The Aeaoc:IMed Pre... All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Applications for 
Chairman ofthe Mock Convention 
can be picked up in the Student Government Offices on the second floor of LaFortune They are due 4:30p.m. on Wednesday, November 2 


Interested in Taking a Class in Ballroom Dancing? 
Wednesday,November 2nd, will be the first lesson ofa five week ballroom dance class that will be held on Saint Mary's Campus in the REGINA HALL BASEMENT from 6:30-8:00 p.m. 
This class will be taught by Ray Sexton from 
Indianopolls and total cost is only $25 for 
five weeks. 
Hyou would Uke to join this class, you can register at the first lesson. 
Tbis offer ts ltmtted to Notre Dame and 
SaintMary's Students Only. 

Margaret Fosmoe 
Managing Editor· 

Inside Tuesday 


•Bonuses to three top management personnel are not a rt·velation ofgraft. as some students arc being led to think. Like many students who hold a job at college. someObserver employ<.·es arc paid a salary. !lnlikc m~>-~t working students, however, Obsen•er employees salaries average far below minimum wage. The Univcr· sity report ignores the fact that bonuses were issued several times during the year to all general board mcm· hers (not just the top three) to supplement salaries equalling less than SI.SO an hour. 
•The University audit 
ofthe report. 

In addition, Louis Cohen. director ofinternal auditing started the audit after seeing a copy of a University memo containing "hearsay-type allegations" concern· ingOI>sert'!'~' t1nances. This no doubt made for the most unbia.~cd ofaudits. 
The Administration has not accused The 0/JsertJet· of the misappropriation of student fees. Cohen said "7be Obsen•er wa.~n't that had. It was a typical student-run organization. Things were questionable, hut there was no outright thievery." 
Notre Dame is demanding financial atcountability. The paper has offered third party involvement. The Uni· versity deserves this for collecting the fees. It is sometimes forgotten. however, that for its service Notre Dame receives a little something in the form ofa daily newspaper. 
right to demand an explana­
tion in layman's terms. 
Intimations by the ad­

ministration of S7,000 
debts, interest-free loans to 
employees, and bonuses to 
few top management per­
sonnel have left some stu­
dents with some very 
serious misconceptions: 
•The $7,000 operating deficit doesn't indicate that Obsen1er employees pocketed 57,000, as some students have been led to believe. Or that The Ob­sen,er has $7,000 worth of unpaid bills sitting in the office. The Obsen1er has al­ways operated on a deficit 

report, to the average stu· dent, may seem to be just as valid as a third-party audit. This is questionable. The University ha.~ accused The Ohsen•er of improper busi· ness procedures. Yet by failing to let the newspaper's officers review the audit before it was released, the University violated standard business procedures. The auditors admit this in a con· venient disclaimer ac­companying the report: because of the the pos· sihility of "incurring un­known delays," not a single Obsen1er employee was contacted before the release 
The Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1983-page 3 



Organize1~ of 1983 AnTostal charged with theft of $3000 
By DAVID SARPHIE Roemer subsequently conducted of the money, or 52850, was stolen Assistant News Editor a hearing and charged the person between Sept. 1982 and March 7, with the theft. According to the 1983. before the late April event. One of the organizers of the 1983 statement, the person has signed a The remaining s150 was stolen 
AnTostal has been charged witll the during May.
promissory note to repay Student theft of S3000 from the festival's 
Government the 53000. The results of the audit revealed a bank account by Dean of Students 
The Student Activities office total deficit of S5,41 0.31. In addition james Roemer. refused to release the name of the to the S3000 theft, there was also a Astatement released yesterday by 
individual or the extent ofany other S2000 loss from the Heat Wave con­the Office of Student Activities !;aid, 
disciplinary actions levied by cert, the theft of S600 worth of "The suspected person called 
Roemer, citing "the right to con­sound equipment, and 5800 worth (Director of Student Activities 
fidentiality in all disciplinary mat­of damage: sustained by two rented 
ters" as stated in the guide to student vehicles. stealing a substantial sum of me ney life, DuLac. The audit, conducted by the from the AnTostal accoun~. The per­james) McDonnell and admitted to 
An internal audit of the AnTostal Notre Dame Internal Audit Depart­son then appeared at a meeting with account requested by McDonnell ment, was prompted when it was University Auditors to review all 
early in October and released Oc­discovered that Sister Marita's items." tober 21st revealed that 95 percent Primary Day School had not 
Group ad.vises Bishop's committee to expancl role oflaity in church 
By PAUL McGINN An ad hoc discussion group, or­Randolfo Pozos, management con­E.>:ecutir'e Editor ganized by Richard "Digger" Phelps, sultant and member of the Hispanic Notre Dame's Basketball coach, Pastoral Institute ofthe Archdiocese 
A group of lay men and wo nen called for the American bishops "to of Los Angeles. Pozos said that the told the seven bishops ofthe Nation­affirm the conscience of the people Church must involve more laborers al Conference of Catholic Bishops' ofthe United States" by supporting a on the parish levels, including an es­Committee on the Laity the institu­married couple's right to use artifi­timated 13 million Hispanic Cat­tional Church must reconsider its cial birth control methods. holics who live in the U.S. position in the modern secular The group also suggested the The seven bishops came to the world and involve more lay men and Church "provide more training of conference "to listen to men and women in its interworkings. the parish clergy and laity" to coun­women who are outstanding in 
The conference. entitled, "Work sel: separated, divorced, and various fields and professions," and and Faith in Society: Catholic remarried Catholics. .to witness "the influence that Perspectives," featured more than American Church issues, religion has on their work," said Wil­60 lay men and women from various however, were not the only ones liam D. Borders, archbishop of Bal­leadership positions, who last week raised by the groups. The Church, timore. met at the Center for Continuing through the everyday work of the William R. Houck, auxiliary Education to advise the bishops' laity, needs to identify a "ministry" bishop ofJackson, Miss., added that committee chaired by Most Rev. to "enable busy lay people com­the conference would "serve as a james R_ Hoffman, bishop ofTokdo. mitted to the secular vocations to be beginning -expectations need to 
The group, which met in large consciously Christian" as they work he kept realistic." plenary sessions and in small di:;cus­to "transform this world," saidJesuit sion groups, advised that the Father John Coleman. a theologian "institutional Church define an ex­and sociologist at the Jesuit School 
Observer 
panded role for the laity." including ofTheology in Berkley Cal. Coleman 
more participation of both men and also suggested that the Church ex­women as a "bridge between the amine closely secular reports on announces 
Church and secular society." pollution, overpopulation, 
Conference attendees spoke economic development, and politi­

promotions
openly about lay involvement in the cal stratification, to develop its own 
pari~h life, women's roles in liturgy, responses to "problems which 
The Obsen•er has named a new as­
and the prospects of joint lay-<.leric won't go away." 
sistant news editor and two new 
participation in the decision-making Jaroslav Vanek, economics profes­copy editors. Mary Healy, a sopho­
process ofthe American Church. sor at Cornell and inventor of solar more from Westport, Conn., will The approximately 7() re·~om­energy devices, said that U.S. Cat­work as the assistant news editor in 
mendations from the men and holics "must look critically at the 
addition to her job as assistant \vomen attending the conference capitalistic system which oppresses features editor. She is an arts and let­
will be brought "to the attentil)n of the workers.... Capitalism and Soviet ters preprofessional major.
the body of (U.S.) bishops and also state capitalism is a cancer." Oppres­Kevin Binger, a senior from Min­
to other lay organizations and to sion of the Third World is caused in neapolis and an intern for The South 
grassroots diocesan councils," large measure by wealthy nations Bend Tribune, will work as a copy
according to Most Rev. Howard who hoard fossil fuels, Vanek said. 
editor. Binger, an American Studies 
Hubbard, bishop ofAlbany, N.Y He proposed that the Church lead 
major, has written news for The Ob­
Father James Bacik, professor of the way in developing solar energy 
server as a staff reporter.
theology and campus minister at the to help redistribute wealth in the Purnima Bose, a South Bend lfniversity of Toledo, echoed the world. 
senior studying English, also will be 
voice of men and women at the con­Groups also suggested that the a copy editor.
ference. "The Church will lack Church promote smaller parishes credibility in the world as a whole patterned after the immigrant until the voice of women is heard," parisheswhich flourished at the turn he said. of the 20th century to "recreate old 
Buy ..
Hubbard said that because of the neighborhoods" in the inner city. conference. he became aware of the Those attending the conference "depth of pain some of the par­admitted that they represented only 

Observer
ticipants felt relative to the lack of a small segment of American Cath­
support (for women) from the in­olic society. They saw themselves as 
Classifieds
stitutional Church." a "group of brokers" according to 
HELP WANTED ­Student or students to take over an established New fnrkiDimes campus 


route for fall term. 
Jobs duties include set 
up, selling and early­
morning delivery of the 




NewlnrkWimes 
For full details, please call NEW YdAKTIMES at 1-800-621-0159. 
YOUR BSN IS WORTH AN OFFICERS COMMISSION IN THE ARMY 
Your BSN means you're a pro­fessional nurse. In the Army, it also means you're an officer. You start as a full-fledged member of our medical team. Call your local Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
Or stop by. 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
received its spring allocation of the Ugly Man on Campus funds totaling 
$1,814. 

The audit also noted that over 90 percent of the theft occurred when the accused cashed checks made out to himselfor cashed checks for exag­gerated amounts, keeping the change. 
The audit cited numerous other 
problems with the AnTos tal account 
including the requirement of only 
one signature on checks, contrary to 
the normal counter-signature sys· 
tern in effect for other Student Ac­
tivity accounts. 
Weak documentation for check 
and cash expenditures was also in· 
eluded in the list of problems with the account. Most of the records of the transactions could not he found in the An Tostal office. 
The statement from Student Ac­tivities noted several changes in the handling of future AnTostal ac­counts that will result from the dis­closure of these problems. "The separate AnTostal account is being 
officially closed. The 19H.f AnTostal will receive its fund in the same manner that all other Student Ac­tivity Fee money is expended ­either by means of a receipt or in­voice processed with the Student Government Treasurer's Office." 


lr>s a bird, irs a plane, if's the .. . trojan borse. 

Gift horse UnfortunateZv, the horse's appearance, before last week's USC game was cancelled because ofa pre­game show conflict. See Tom Mowle's story below. 


Trojan horse cancelled because of conflict 
By TOM MOWLE  "Ifthere had been no visiting band,"  
Assistant News Editor  he noted, tht·n there might have  
been time for the horse to be  
The Trojan horse, that was to be  brought in.  
brought in to the football stadium  In spite of being unable to bring  
before the start of the Notre Dame ­ the horse down to the field, David  
Southern California game last week,  said the idea was successful. "We  
was not wheeled in because ofa con­ pulled it around Greenfield and the  
flict with the pre-game program.  tailgaters and up and down .Juniper  
The horse, built under the  Road past the stadium," David said,  
guidance of Brcen-Phillips Hall  "as a symbol of the spirit of Notre  
President Cathy David and junior  Dame."  
Dan O'Hare, was to have been  David said they did not intend to  
brought to the edge of the playing  leave the horse in the stadium for  
field before last Saturday's football  the entire game, only to "roll it  
game against Southern California.  down the ramp to the endzone,  
Breen-Phillips Hall president  leave it there for a minute, and then  
Cathy David, who helped guide the  roll it back out."  
building ofthe horse, said the group  Another part of the game week  
who built the horse was told they  festivities was a banner contest.  
could not bring it into the stadium.  David said approximately 1200 ban­ 
David said their faculty advisor,  ners were put up around campus.  
Business ProfessorJames Ward, told  The judges selected co-winners in  
her Band Director Robert O'Brien  the contest, Sven Johnson of  
"didn't want to be upstaged" by the  Cavanaugh and some unknown  
horse and wanted "the main focus  Grace residents.  
on the band."  Johnson's banner said "Going for  
O'Brien responded that he  the victory, Notre Dame style!" and  
thought the Trojan Horse idea "was  depicted a USC player trying to hold  
marvelous," but there was "no time  up a ref .eree's arms in a touchdown  
for it to be brought onto the field."  signal while a Notre Dame player  
He said the pre-game program is  ripped his arms off. The other win­ 
"organized two weeks in advance;"  ncr was a series of three banners  
it was "too late to make changes" in  which said "We're not just hursing  
the program to accommodate the  around -Go Irish -The t:n­ 
horse.  deserved Score Corps will be no  
The only option he had, O'Brien  more." David said this was the most  
said, would have been to cancel part  original use of the initials 'USC' The  
of the previously planned program.  winners will split a S75 prize.  



The Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1983-page'4 


$6.2 million faculty office building gift of University trustee Decio 
Special to The Observer 
The 56.2 million faculty office 
building under constru<:tion at 
Notre Dame is the gift ofElkhart bus­
inessman and l :niversity trustee Ar· 
thurJ. lkcio. 
Tht· announcemcnt of the 
benefaction, tht· ~econd largest to 
till' l'niver~ity from a living person, 
was made at a regular campus Trus· 
tee~· nweting h~ Fatlll'r Tht·odort· 
lll'~hurgh, l lnivt·r~ity pn·sidnll. 
l>t'cio !'acuity llall. I<Katnl on the ~outhea~t quadrangle of tht· campu~. con~bt~ of thrt't' four-Mol]' ~cction~ t"tKompassing 7'i,OOO ~quart· feet. De~ignnl by Elkrhe Associates. Bloomington, ,\llinn., the building will include oltkTs h1r 2'iO College of Arts and Lt·tters prokssors, a fantlty lounge, a confcrt·nce room, sevt·ral small seminar rooms and .~t"Crt·tarial hJCilitit's. II will also house the llniversity's llclen Kcl­logg Institute for International Studies. Completion is expected in April, with dedication ceremonies next Septemhcr. 
"By providing a structure which fosters tht· dose faculty-studcnt 
By AMY STEPHAN 
f."of')' Fditor 
With "America the Beautiful" 
blaring from louds1x-akt-r~. ·fOO 
hungry contestants vied for trips to 
Ft. l.auderdak in the grand finak of 
C.tp'n Crunch week ·-the Cap'n 
Crunch eating contt·st -last Friday 
aftnnoon on South Quad. 
Cheers tilled tht· air a.~ contt·stants ran across tht· quad. gulpcd down two howls ofcereal. and ran hal.·k to tag the next tl.·am member. One devoted C;tp'n Crunch cater even made the run on crutches. 
''I'm going to Floiida!" cried mem­bers of tht· winning teilm as their anchorman downed his final howl. The winnt·rs. all from Fisher Hall, werc: John Lutz, frcshman; Tom Sduorer, junior; !\lark Wdngilrtncr. ~ophomorc; Mikt· <.hmdl. junior; and ,\lartin Whitlakcr. senior. 
Although most of tht· conteMants ~aid it was "lots of fun". ft·w planned to t';lt much <.ap'n Crunch in tht· ncar futurt·. ''I'm not hung!]', that'~ fi1r ~ure." ~aid Kt'\')'in DeMartino af· tl'f t·ating two pt·nalty howls. 
"The compt·tition was exciting, hut tktrimt·ntal to tht· roof of the 


• Soulhwes!efn lvflc.hrgall.~
Larwesr Ant1que Showroom 

• Antiques. CvlleC.tdbtP.s, & 
Country Cralts 

• Back t><.1<cn Cate 
Mon Sat. tO 00-6 OC HOURS: . Sun. t2·00-5:oo 
Damc education, Art Decio has generously and indclihly enrichcd the quality of the University's liberal-arts cducation," said Hes­hurgh. "llis gift will kavc future generations of thc Notre Damc fami­ly profoundly in his deht." 
Decio served on Notre Dame's 


Engineering and Business Ad­The faculty members in the mtmstration Advisory Councils humanities and social sciences who before becoming a trustec in 1971. will occupy Dccio Faculty Hall havc ftc reccivcd an honorary doctor of bcen houscd in the basement of laws dcgrec from thc University in Notre Damc's Memorial Library, 

1975 ,. and also holds honorary huilt in 1963. 
I

Ir--------------------------------·------, 
relationship essential to a Notrc degrces from Salem College and In· diana State University. Born in 
Elkhart, Indiana, Dccio graduated from Marion Military Academy, Aurora, Illinois, in 1948 and at­tended DePaul University. In 1951. hc marricd Patricia George. Thrcc of their five children have graduatcd from Notre Damc. 
In 1956, Dccio became Prcsidcnt of Skyline Corporation. the nation's leading producer of manufactured housing and rccreational vehicles. lie has ht't'n Skyline's chairman ot thc hoard and chief executive of tker sincc 1959. Widcly known for his philanthropies and volunteer work, Dccio has scrvcd as director and board membcr of more than thirty civic, rcligious, business and educational organizations including Fedcral Reserve Bank of Chicago. Goshen Collegc, Unitcd Way, and the Catholic Diocese · of Fort 
Wayne/South Bcnd. 


Week Of Campus Wl.de feStl.Vl.tl.eS 
This contest in the Cap'n Crunch eating contest 
wasjust too busy for words to tell us bow manv 
bowls of cereal she had eaten. The contest cui­
minated a week dedicated to the Cap'n. 
Slurp 

Cap'n Crunch eating contest closes i ~~TMAN l
"' 
mouth," said Mikc Loched, echoing 
the ~entiment~ of many other par­
ticip;mts. 
Spl't"tators, many wearing Cap'n Crunch T-:-hirts. lined tht· roped-olt· contest area. "This is Amcrica for you." said freshman Eric Pritchard, "anything to ht· a fool." 
Cries of"Let's hear it t(>r the soph­omorc class!" wert· shoutt.'d as spcc­t a tors and contestants alike nowded around thc awards stand for the final presentation. 
In both thc gencral and thc sopho­more drawings among T-shirt win­ners, the first two names drawn were not prescnt and thcrefore in­eligible to win. Trips to Fort l.audcrdalc were finally awarded to Cathy Schaefer and Mike Pecoraro. 
Kathleen Johanscn, who found tht· organizational treasure chest, donated tht· videocassette rccordcr prize to Change of Pacc Experiencc, Inc. through LeMans flail. COPE, opcrating mainly in the East, is a non-profit educational program that counscls parents of childt"t'n who havt· died from canccr. 
"Thank you very much, wc decided to keep these," said Mike 
IIayes when he and Mary Kay Metzer recdved their Sony-Watchman tclcvision. cassette recorder-player. and solar-powcred calndator. t{Jr finding tht· individual trcasure chest in the bookstore's calculator case. 
"Thc turnout was great, the crowd responsc great. and the en­thusiasm wild," said Lee Broussard, sophomore class president. 
The winners of Wcdn(•sday's Cap'n Crunch costume contcst -Paulctte Hering, Amy Griffin, Bar­bara Stevens, and Cindy Vera ­wcrc present and wearing their win­ning costumes. Henning said many girls on thc third floor of Breen­Phillips hclped them make their winning outfits: a spoon, milk, a piece of cercal and, of course, the Cap'n. 
"It ha.~n't bothered us if people want ro miss out on a good timc," Broussard added, commenting on the unfavorabk response of some students to Cap'n Crunch weck. Broussard said about twclve pcople wearing "Cap'n Crunch Why?" signs were prcsent at thc start of the con­test. hut soon disappeared as the event got underway. 
~ a 
Pre-recordedMuslcServiceforyour

(/) Wedding-Reunion-Dance-Party -g Anniversary. I'll Dance non stop to original a. 50's, 60's. 70's and 80's hils () 
Reasonable rates 


i 
i
I 
THOMJEGIER 288-1354
I 

I I 
a•••••••••••••-•••••••••••••••••••••••••~ 

The Amos Tuck School 
of 



Business Administration 
Dartmouth College • Hanover, N.H. 
Men and Women Seeking Graduate Education for Management are invited to discuss the 

TUCK MBA 
Tuesday, November 15 
Scott Settle, Assistant Director of Admissions Check with the Placement Office 239-5200 





CREDIT FOR 
CIVIL ENGINEERS ... 
You're Needed AIIOverthe World. 
Ask Peace Corps volunteers with degrees in Civil 
Engineering why they travel half way around the 
globe to Africa and Asia ... why they work with 
water, sanitation, road construction, and structural 
projects overseas. They'll probably say they want 
to help people, use their skills, learn a new language, 
VISA® and MasterCard® Credit Cards Now Available
and gain valuable career experience. Ask them why 
to Students through TlmESAVER'' 's BankActlon Program! 
Peace Corps is the toughest job you'll ever love. 
No Minimum Income or Job Requirements. Savings account and fees required. Mall this coupon for complete information.
Peace Corps Reps on Campus 
Send to : Tlmesaver Headquarters Building I 
Nov. 8, 9, ~ 10. Interested Student Dept I 12276 Wilkins Avenue 1 Rockville . MD 20852 
Seniors sign up Cor interview Name Address
in the Placement Office 
City Stote Zip 
Phone( ) 
School Attending \fl' 
Status: Fr 0 Saph o Jr 0 Sr D Grad 0 

PEACE CORPS 
There's Never Been a Better Time to Get VISA® and MasterCard® Credit Cards! Apply Tod1:1yt 





The Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1983 -page 5 
Stadium lltsher suspended pending investigatiion after striking student 
Your Future in· Sales and Marketing is Here ... .. .A.t Inland Steel Company 
Inland Steel is interested in talking with men and women who are SE?rJously considering a career in Sales and Marketing. 
If you'd like to join a company that encourages the brightest and the best to move ahead quickly, you'll feel right at home at Inland. 
If you want to work for the best in the industry and enjoy an exciting and challenging profession in Sales and Marketing, then we want to meet you. 
Here 21t Meet with Inland Steel's 
Morris Inn, Alumni Room November 2, 1983, 7:00 -9:00 p.m. Sales and Marketing People Refreshments will be served. 
THE FUTURE OF RflERICRrl STEELflRKING 15 HERE... • Inland Steel ...RNO 50 IS YOURS. 
continued/rom page 1 
they keep their own books ...But, I don't think they should pay rent and utility fees. They ought to be there free." 
Other parts of the Observer plan call for the formation ofan Observer alumni board to control the paper's finances and an outside accountant independent of both the University and the paper to audit the books. 
Tyson said he hopes to arrange a meeting with the other two parties by the beginning ofnext week. 
ADD A NEW DIMENSION TO YOUR NURSING CAREER 
One weekend a month we can givE you a whole new outlook on your profession. As an officer in the Ar· myReserve. You'll enjoy the privileges of rank. And like the respect and responsibilities that go with it. Serving one weekend a month two weeks during the year will giveyou the chance to add new 
·dimensions to your career. And you'll earn $2,200 or more per year to start. Licensed BSNs and 3 year certificate nurses with at least 12 months' experience are eligible. A change of scenery once a montr could be good medicine for you. 
Sergeant Dan Clawson (219) 872-8635 call collect ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL 
YOU CAN BE. 
Richard Foley, a Notre Dame trus­
tee and retired chairman and chief 
executive officer of the Interpublic 
Group ofCompanies, died Sunday in 
New York city. He was 69. 
A 1937 journalism graduate of Notre Dame, Foley was a reporter for newspapers in Chicago and his hometown of Pontiac, Mich., before entering the advertising field in 1940. In 1964 he was named chair­man of McCann-Erickson and in 1971 moved up to head its parent company, Interpublic, a holding company ofadvertising agencies. 
Richard Foley 
Foley was named to Notre Dame's 
Arts and Letters Advisory Council in 
1967 and was elected to the Board 
ofTrustees two years later. As chair­
man of the Board's Public Relations 
and Development Committee, he 
was influential in the planning ofthe 
University's Sl80 million develop­
ment program, "The Campaign for 
Notre Dame." 

Foley received an honorary doc­
tor of laws from the University in 
1976. 

By MARK WORSCHEH hitting the student and that the us­by an usher by the name ofSpencer News Editor her believed he was hit and was o'nly Grady," said Terry. hitting back. 
The student "was taken by
An usher who University officials Grady refused to comment last security officers to the hospital aftl:rsaid struck a Notre Dame 'sopho­night on the incident. 
returning to his hall," said Terry. Six more in the head after the USC foot­According to Terry and reports X-rays were taken, according to theball game has been suspended from witnesses, the incident oc­student, and all of them showed nopending the outcome of an inves­curred at or near the end ofthe USC trace ofa concussion.
tigation by the Security Department. game. The student was part of a 
Joseph O'Brien, associate athl·etic group attempting to ru.1 onto the The student said he was director, said yesterday that the us­field to celebrate the victory. "shocked" by the whole incident. "I her had been suspended and that he can't believe he did that," he said.
The ushers were attempting to did not report to work for the 1\ avy keep the crowC: back with a rope, football game on Saturday. said Terry, and Grady was knocked Terry would not estimate when Security Director Glenn Terry down. The student ran through the the department's investigation identified the usher as Spencer 
line of ushers, and when he was a would be finished. He said that state­Grady, a supervisor in the ushering 
few yards past them, he was ap­ments were still being gathered crew. He said that Grady admitted proached from behind and "struck from witnesses. 



Judge thr~Jws out Craft verdict 
Associated Press Ms. Craft had claimed that she was The jury that awarded Ms. Craft demoted from co-anchor of news 11500,000 in the fraud case in August KANSAS CITY, Mo.-A federal broadcasts to reporter because she had ruled against her on the equal 
om

judge on Monday threw a wasn't attractive or deferential pay issue but had returned an ad­11500,000 verdict won by former enough to men, but Stevens wrote visory verdict in her favor on the sex anchorwoman Christine Craft and that the Kansas City TV station had discrimination complaint. 
ruled that her demotion by a TV sta­
to contend with Ms. Craft's "below­An attorney for Metromedia, tion was not the result of sex dis­average aptitude in matters ofcloth­Sandra L. Schermerhorn, said she crimination. ing and makeup." wanted to limit her comments on 
U.S. District Judge Joseph E. Citing Ms. Craft's "affinity for the Monday's ruling because "the judge Stevens Jr. said the jury verdict on beach life and her apparent indif­is still very concerned about pre­
Ms. Craft's allegations of fr.md ference to matters of appearance," trial publicity." against Metromedia Inc. was the the judge said the station's actions "We are pleased with the result of "passion, prejudice, confu­were "appropriate to her unique cir­outcome," Ms. Schermerhorn said. 
sion or mistake," and ordered a new cumstances." "We are very hopeful that the new trial. 
Stevens also denied Ms. Craft's re­trial on the issue of fraud will turn 
The former anchorwoman, in Mil­quest for a new trial on her claim out favorable to Metromedia." waukee on a speaking tour, said she that equal pay laws were violated by The judge had refused, at a Sept. 1 was "appalled" by the decision md Metromedia, which owned KMBC­hearing, to issue a directed verdict 
vowed to pursue the case "to its hig­TV at the time she was demoted in in favor ofMetromedia, but the com­hest level if I have to." August 1981. pany filed a motion asking for a reduction in the jury award or a new trial.
8,38(P"'·t~jct.Avc ....n.~c 
Stevens criticized the publicity surrounding the case, and said the vc.::;ct~'-'~...., [ »-1c~t new trial on the fraud complaint would begin Jan. 4 in Joplin, Mo.,
~ -z,,s4cs ... 
120 miles south of Kansas City. The jury in that trial will be sequestered,
lcb~...-,csc-st;lc 5/'·os 
unlike the jury in the first trial, he said.

-z,.~l'57tf~' r~sh•tcs 
Ms. Craft, 38, returned to her old job at KEYT-TV in Santa Barbara,
•it~ st~Cfc-z, s~....,-z,,..yic4cs 
Calf., after refusing to accept her
r II 288-)639 
demotion, but quit that job after the verdict to write a book and lecture. 
This statue, which stood outside the Snite
Lone StatuCMuseum ofArt was taken apart and moved to an­other spot. The statue was often knocked over in its old spot. 



U.S. invaders admit shelling of hospitai 
Associated Press they did not learn about the casualties at the hospital until early BRIDGETOWN, Barbados(AP)-Monday, although the shelling ap­
U.S. invaders in Gienada sorted parently had occurred on the first seized weapons and documents day of the invasion, Oct. 25. Monday, admitted they accidentally . Soviet and Cuban-made weapons shelled a mental hospital and said were among the arsenals discovered the military leader of the ousted on the island. Jamaican Prime Minis­junta has been detained on a war­ter Edward Seaga, given a tour by ship. military officials, said he was shown 
But the Pentagon denied reports an estimated 100,000 grenades and in the Canadian newsmagazine 4 million rounds of ammunition, Macleans and the New York Post much of it piled in the backyard of that about 50 mental patients died in Bishop's house. the shelling attack, saying casualties were "substantially lower." 
American forces bombed the 
ND trustee 
building, apparently without realiz­ing it was a hospital, the White 

Foley dies 
House said. Military officials said 

at age 69 

• . Reject
• Special to The Observer 


Tuesday, November I, 1983 -page 6 


Defending Reagan's action in Grenada 
Dear Sir or Madam (choose one): ifthis is not clear, but you can see why we had The President has askt·d me t("espond to to act. your lt-tter inquiring about the American i\lva­There were, after all, approximately 60 sion ofGrt·nada. Tht·re have btTn many ques­American medical studems on the island of tions about this operation and it is the policy Grenada. Their lives were in danger. It is true, 
of course. that the president of the medical 
school at St. George's said this was not the Richard Cohen case, that the students themselves reported 
they were safe, that their parents pleaded for 
American restraint, and that Grenada
The Cohen column 
guaranteed their safety, agreeing to their exit by charter flights. All that is true. But that docs o! your government to answer the queries of not change matters any. its citizens. 
Grenada, as you may know, is a dagger 
!'rom the very tir~t. our main concern was pointed at the heart ofSt. Lucia. It goes with­the matter of hostages. Even though then: was out saying that if Grenada fell to a group of no clear sign that American lives were in dan­Leftist thugs, so then would St. Lucia, ga, we nevt·rthdess had to act. preferring ac­Dominica, and maybe even Barbados, an is­tual danger to a mer<· possibility and a 1epeat land your President visited just two years ago of the Iranian hostage situation with all its and which is the home of Claudette Colbert. damaging political impact. We could not allow this to happen. 
It is also apparent that if the Grenadans The fact is that the Grenadan government suspected an American invasion they might took power in a bloody coup. We do not have take hostages. Thus. because of an invasion all the details of the coupw for example the designed to avoid a hostage situation there circumstances under which Prvne Minister might have been a hostage situation. I'm sorry Maurice Bishop was killed -but it looked 
Reagan) in reference 

P.O.BoxQ 

Observer funds 
[)ear Fditor: 

I would like to make a few comments on the 
l inivnsity'srequest that The Ohsen;er join the 
l lnivcrsity hudgt"t program by January I or 
t;ttT the cutoll of funds from student activity 
fees. 

I agree with tht· comments of Editor-in­Chid David Dzit"dzic and Managing Editor Margaret l'osmoe as rt·ported in tht· October 20 Ohser!•t!r. Although Tbe Ohsen•er should provide the l Jniversity with monetary ac­countability, it should be through an outside agency, sinn· a newspaper can't be totally in­dependent and free of influence from someone who controls the purse-strings. 
l'atht·r Van Wolvlear and Father Hesburgh state that "the l lniversity does not plan on ex­t-rdsing any editorial control of the content." I'm sun· that is the cast·-for now. Major jour­nalistk/administration dasht·s will not occur when the biggest <·ampus crisis is tht· morality of a Cap'n Crunch visit. But in a condition of genuine con!lict of views between The Oh­sen•er staff and the l lniversity, can anyone rt·ally hdievc that this administration would hesitate to intern·nt· if tht· nll'ans were availabld Entrance into tht· budgt·t system would furnish these means. 
Don't do it. Uhsen•er' (iiving this ad­ministration the potential to l'xt·rcise nlitorial intluenee would mean the t·nd ofan imkpendt·nt papt·r at Notre Dame -maybe not today, maybt· not tomorrow. hut soon. and at just tht· time it would be most nn·ded. 
Cbar/es R. Shedlak 

Faust recruits 
/Jearliditor: 

A .\jwrtinx Ne11•s issut· of Sept. 19!-l.) tells us that <ierry Faust is t1nding recruiting increasingly di!lkult. I k argut·s that part of this stems from the closeness of the Notre Dame department of education in the early ·-ros. Since that happennl thne are not enough Notre I>a me graduates teaching in the secondary sd10ols pushing tht"ir stmknts to play li>othall !(>r Notre Dame. !-'or such a series of logkal blunders to be made hy one is amazing -especially when that man is the second most visible memht·r of our pres­
tigious liberal arts school. Let us look at his errors: ! . He complains how. hard it has been to recruit, yet almost every major independent sports publications say that Notre Dame has had outstanding recruiting years since Faust came to the University. 
2. Our esteemed coa~;h assumes that high school teachers jump up and down, rant and rave, and practically hold a gun to the heads of football players to force them to go to their alma-mater. This may happen from time-to­time, hut a lot less frequently than he seems to think. Dear reader, how many teachers ever told you their alma-mater? .). Notre Dame's department of education closed down only a little over 10 years ago. This may seem to be a long time, hut it is relatively short as far as teachers arc con­cerned. Because of declining enrollments in tht· past I 0 years, a great majority ofthe teach­ers in the public schools have taught for 1'5 or more years. 
4. Many private school teachers never at­tended a school of education, thus Notre Dame's lack ofone is irrelevant in these cases. '5. But of course, the clincher. Notre Dame graduates 2'5 or more persons liscensed to tt·ach (and even more Saint Mary's students) thanks to the fine and well-respected joint program with Saint Mary's. So guess what? There arc indeed teachers out there -I am only one of many. So is this why Notre Dame lost to Michigan State and Miami? Mary[) doesn't make these kinds ofexcuses! 
____________________D_a__v__eAfaloney 

An Tostal audit 
Dear Editor: 

Your front page today will no doubt carry a tragic story regarding the theft of AnTostal funds. The person responsible came forward, confessed, and will he punished in accord­ance with University regulations. To repeat all the details is not necessary. 
From the beginning, I promised full dis­closure of the story to The Observer. I even mentioned to one reporter and to the editor that all facts would he released, except for one situation. In the event that a University dis­ciplinary action were necessary, confiden­tiality ofname and specific punishment would bt· withheld. Making restitution is nor punish­ment: it is a question of morality ar.d justice. 
The AnTostal event was administered in the 
exact same manner it had heen since the 
pretty bad to us. The new government was Nicaraguan attempt to subvert El Salvador. even closer to Cuba or the Soviet Union than But we, as a major power with God on our the old one, thou!~ the Cubans denounced its side, have never subscried to the dictum that's takeover and seemed cool to it. This confused what good for the goose is good for the gan­us at first, but we finally concluded that the der. In fact, this strikes us as something akin to Cubans or the Grenadans or someone was the ERA to which, for very good reasons, we lying. At any rate, we did not like the old arc also opposed (see above: collected government, either. speeches ofR.W. Reagan.) 
It is important to bear in mind that U.S. We in the government are aware of the forces were invited to invade Grenada by criticism that ifa bloody coup, such as the one other Caribbean nations. Your government in Chile which also resulted in the death ofthe 
knows that this is an ·invitation that these head of state (Salvador Allende), had governments really could not extend -sort produced a government to our liking, we of like you inviting someont!" to dinner at my would not have acted. To this criticism. we house without my knowledge. But you have 
respond with understandable shock, chagrin to bear in mind that these nations are close, 
and horror and note that we were hostile to share a fondness for reggae music, talk in that 
the Grenadan government all along. Aside wonderful lilting accent and, like us, shared a 
from that, all we can do is change the subject. fear ofthe Grenadans-rational or not. 
Your govern.ment hopes that this letter 
Your government understands that, strictly answers all your questions. To assuage you, speaking, the invasion is a violation of the Or­furthur, we suggest you turn offthe television ganization of American States' charter. This set and not read any newspapers. Additional (sir or madam), is precisely the same charter facts arc only likely to confuse you and we sin­that President Reagan has cited time and time cerely feel that there is no need for you to again (see: collected speeches of R.W. 
know more than the President himselfdoes. to the alleged (c) 1983, The Waoblngtoo Poor em.­
1979-HO school year. The '80, '81 and '82 events all produced a surplus in the budget. The '83 AnTostal would have also, except for the 53,400 in unexpected losses detailed in today's story. In fact, I had more meetings with Jay Reidy, the Chai.rman, than l had with any previous AnTostal chairman. The deficit, as explained in today's story. was not due to poor management, laxity, or a carefree, spendthrift attitude. The overall AnTostal event was enormously successful with the highest participation rate I have seen at Notre Dame. New events, such as the big picnic at Stepan, the noon-time concerts, the major act on Saturday, were well attended. 
The failure ofAnTostal came about because · of human fuilure. An all too human person on this campus was tempted and fell. Yes, I was let down, the AnTostal committee was let down, the Student Government was let down, the entire student body was let down by this person who made a serious mistake and misused student funds. 

What happened is an example ofwhat can happen in a student-run organiza­tion when dual or triple signatures are not re­quired for all disbursements. It is also an example ofhow funds can he misused when a faculty or administrative person's signature is not required. 
Fortunately, this person had come forward and contt:ssed and is repaying the money. Most importantly, this person needs to put a life back together. I submit that this case should be closed. We do not need to furthur execute this person on the pages of this 
newspaper or over WSND-AM. 
Dr. james Af. AfcDonnell Director ofStudent Activities 
SOOPI(/Z[~ SDOP!fll£, 500ff(JZ£/I 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic /Jox {_). Nt•lrt' /)ame. IN ·J65S6 (.! /<)) .!39· 5303 Afanaging Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe 
/he ()hserl•er 1s the HHkpen<lent newspaper published hv the studems of the Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas vt-rsllv o! Notre: Danw du l.ac and Saint /\1an..s College. It does not necessarilv reflect News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Afanager . .............. Chris Owen the poliues o! rhe e~dministration o! either institution. Tht· news is reported as at· News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzauuc i..,a Croix <"llrately and as objc:l"l ivelv as possihk l 'nsigned t·diwrials represent rhe opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto nta1onry ofthe l'ditorial Hoard Cornmentarin. letfers. and the lnsidt· Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltog System Manager ............... Kevin Williams rile news ofthnr .turhors <:olumn spalT is available to all members ofthe communitv. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower 

==Ihe~Obseaer== 
,\jmrts Editor.. . ....... \1ichacl Sullivan . Founded November 3, 1966 
•md tht· tree t·xprt·ss•on of \".tn·ing opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
------------------------------------------------, 
I 




Sports Briefs 
The Flying Fathers, known as "the Harlem Globetrotters ofice hockey," will play a game on Wednesday, Nov. 9 at the ACC for the benefit of Phoenix House, the halfway house for recovering alcoholic women in South Bend. The Fathers, an internationally-known group of priests, have all at one time played either amateu·r or pro hocke~r prior to entering the seminary. They will play 20-minute periods against the Notre Dame club hockey team, the St. Joseph's High School hockey team, and the Ice Boxers of the Michiana Senior Leagw~. -The Observer 
Domer Six T -shirts are in at last. If you ran-in the Domer Six Mile race, please pick up your shirt by this Thursday at 5 
p.m. -The Observer 
The second annual "Turkey Shoot," a 
co-ree target shooting contt,st, is being sponsored by NVA. No ex­perience is necessary. You must reserve a time for your team oftwo men and two women. The deadline for sign-up is Nov. II. Call 239­6I00 for more information. ·-The Observer 
Student basketball tickets are still available. They can be obtained from the ticket office on the second floor of 
the ACC. -The Observer 
Windsurfing T··Shirts are now in. The club will meet in LaFortune at 7 p.m. tomorrow. Members are asked to bring $7 to the meeting. -The Observer 
Larry Williams, the outstanding 9ffensive tackle for the Fighting Irish, will be the {eatured guest tonight on Speaking of Sports at IO p.m. on WSND-AM 64. Join with your calls and com­ments at 239-6400 or 239-7·i25. -The Observer 
Tuesday, November 1, 1983-page 7 
Wednesday, November 9, is an important 
deadline for many NVA activities. It is the deadline for both men's and women's interhall basketball sign-ups. The club and graduate basketball deadline is also on this day. November 9 is also the deadline for interhall hockey and squash. If you have any questions, call the NVA office at 239-6IOO or talk to your hall athletic commis­sioners. -The Observer 
l'he ND-SM C Ski teamwill hold a short meeting at 7 p.m. on Thursday, Nov. 3 in the LaFortune Little Theater. Everyone must bring proofofinsurance. Those going to Jackson Hole should bring a S I 50 deposit. -The Observer 
A one-day grad/fac soccer tournament set for 
Nov. 12 has been announced by NVA. Bring in a roster and S5 to the 
NVA office. Ifyou would like to play but don't have a team, you may 
play on the "open team." Bring fifty cents to the NVA office to add 
your name to the list. Deadline for rosters is Friday, Nov. 4. -The 
Observer 
Session two of aerobics began yesterday. New­comers are welcome to join the Monday, Wednesday class at tomorrow's session. Classes last from 4 p.m. to 5:I5 p.m. Call NVA at 239-6IOO for more details.-The Observer 
Strength and conditioning professional Gary Weil will be the instructor for an NVA short course in weight train­ing. There will be a group instruction session Nov. 8 and then the class will divide into two groups: Nov. 9th will be the women's eve­ning to meet and on Nov. lOth the men wilt meet. The price for the two evenings is $2. You must register in advance of the first session. For more details call NVA at 239-6100.-The Observer 
• • • Repeat 
continuedfrompage 12 
this one coming in the third quarter. 
Green, under a heavy rush by Mike 
Gann, threw a desperation pass that 
was tipped by Jon Autry. Naylor 
grabbed the tipped pass and 
returned it to the USC 42. 
It took just five rushing plays for Notre Dame to go up by a 24-0 mar­gin. After Pinkett picked up nine yards on the first play, fullback Mark Brooks plowed for gains ofeight and nine yards up the middle. Pinkett then romped for seven and II yards on the next two plays, the latter run giving him his third touchdown of the afternoon. 
USC's lone score of the day came on a 36 yard pass interference call against Pat Ballage that set up Mic­hael Harper's one-yard touchdown run (this time he had possession of the ball). 
A 39-yard field goal by Johnston rounded out the scoring. 
While Pinkett and his mates on the offensive line grabbed most of the attention, it was the play of the Notre Dame defense that impressed USC Head Coach Ted Tollner the most. 
"Believe it or not, our defense played as well as well as it has all season," said Tollner. 
"We weren't sure that we could move the ball on the ground," con­tinued Toliner. "If we could have, it would have been a close game." 
The Trojans managed to pick up 
only I09 yards in 38 rushing at­
tempts against the Irish defensive 
unit. 

Although his interference penalty did set up the one Trojan score, cor­nerback Pat Ballage played an espe­cially outstanding game, as his nine tackles led the team. Time and time again he came up from his corner position to stop the vaunted USC "student body right/left" sweeps. 
The passing game for USC wasn't much better as it was limited to just II4 yards -almost one-hundred yards below its season average. 
Notre Dame may not have come out in its usual blue, but it did create some very blue feelings on the USC • sideline this afternoon. 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. lo 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third-Aoor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. lo 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified 
service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in per­
son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per


Classifieds 
day. 

NEEDED AT LEAST 6 GA TIX FOR THE LOST: Wire eyeglasses with brown 
Need Student and GA for Pitt. Call kevin Brenda. Thanks for JUSt being you. I hope PITI GAME ON NOV. 5TH. CALl case. Call8297. al277-8452 you enjoyed be1ng here for the game. be­
~----.N_O_T_IC_Es_____,l L--1_FO_R_S_A_LE____J 
CATHY6773. cause I enJoyed having you' Love. An old HELP! Can't see! LOST pair of glasses. need 6GA's for Pitt call Bill256-1223any fnend... Gemin(' in black case (EYE CARE DOC­price 
•......................•... 

HELP!I NEED 1 AIR FORCE GA. WILL TORS.WICKLIFFE.OHIO).Brown 
MA-SURPRISE I Welcome back! Love, T Typ1ng ALL KINDS 277-8534 after 5.30 EXOTIC PETS snakes, 
PAY BIG$. CALL TOM 8621 frames, clear plastic lenses. LOST 10-19 
NEED 6 STU OR GA. FOR PITI. SEANlizards, turtles, tarantulas, amphibians, possibly in Engineering audtorium. 
277·1405 HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MIKEllPART TIME BARTENDER POSITIONS birds, mammals. Largest selection In Need Pitt lix. Call1695. 
(even if it is a day late) 

OPEN TO STUDENTS. HOURS U.S. Midwest Reptile, 1520 Misha­HELP!' PARENTS WILL DISOWN ME Not everyone can be born on Halloween.
FLEXIBLE. APPLY IN PERSON ONLY waka Ave., 232-2095, 2 mi. from N.D. 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO Pm GA'S UNLESS I GET TW0(2) PITI GA'S butAFTER 8 PM HICKORY HIRAMS. LOST: DARK BLUE RUNNING JACKET. 
TOGETHER!' CALL JEFF 8917 PLEASE HELP! CALL JOHN AT 1487 Your brother 
CORNER-OF MISHAWAKA AVE. AND FOR SALE. TECHNICS SA-80 STEREO WITH SUB 4" ON THE FRONT, AND MAIN ST.. MISHAWAKA. RECEIVER. 15 WAITS PER CHANNEL. FOUR WHITE STRIPES ON THE
FOR SALE: TWO PITT GAS CALL TWO PITI GA'S. I NEED 'EM. YOU GOT EXCELLENT CONDITION. $50. WILL SLEEVES. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL
ROSEMARY AT 6232 'EM. "PARENTS WILL THANK YOU INTYPING SC:RVICE TAKE OTHER OFFERS. CALL TIM AT JOHN AT 8928. 

PERSON. MICKEY 1576 
Protess1onal experience wdh math equa~ 8897. Sparky & Phil -Senor Kelly's was lions. stahstiCal and general typ1ng. For GREAT! Next time well pay!l Thanks fast & accurate service. call 256-5469 BURT WENT again -Kate & Mo Prices vary YES. BURT WENT. 
HELP ME, PLEASE 
NEEDS TWO TIX BED AND BREAKFAST · football EXPERIENCED TYPIST TOTHE BIG. weekends for ND parents. Two (2) night
[-TICKETS ] FOR RENT 
AN ALUMNUS FRIEND IS COMING ALL 
Mrs. Bedford PITI GAME. CALL FLIP AT 277-4282 minimum. 10 mins. from campus. 272­
THE WAY FROM BOSTON TO SEE THE 
288-2107 5840.
IRISH CRUSH PITT. HE NEEDS TWO Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m . Mon. thru Fri. 
GA'S FOR THE GAME. CALL DAVID AT 
THEO MAJORS: You are invited to a
277-1326. 
ENDAD lecture -"Salvation Through Imagina­
I AM WILLING TO TRADE 2 AIR FORCE NICE FURNISHED HOUSE 277-3604 tion" -given by Bernard Cooke on
STUD. TIX AND/OR CASH FOR ONE NEED PITI STUD & GA TIX. CALL DESPERATELY NEED 1 PITI STU­
.................................... 

Wednesday, Nov. 2 at 8 p.m. In The
PIT STUD. TIX OR GA. MY GIRLFRIEND CHRISAT283-16570RSUSANAT284-DENT TIX. FRIEND FLYING IN FROM
HOUSEMATE. FEMALE. $175 MO. EX­Library Auditorium. Immediately alter
IS ALSO NEGOTIABLE. CALL BARNEY 5203. TEXAS. BIG BUCKS. CALL DAN 283­
CELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD. CLOSE the lecture, please come to the Center1222. 3506.
TO ND. GROCERY STORE. FUR­for Social Concerns for refreshments 
········································•••···· HAVE 4 PITI GA'S WANT TO TRADE

LOST/FOUND 
NISHED. 233-6081. 
and discussion.

PmGA'S NEEDEDIll Will pay b1g $$$$. FOR OR BUY PENN ST TIX CALL 1796 FOR SALE: 1 Stu Pitt ticket or best offer. Call Tom Hollerbach collect at (312) 565-Call 284-4094 
Seductress,

5959. $$$$for Pitt GAs. Need four or pairs. Call 
Eight o'clock. Tonight. My place.
LOST One pa1r of DIADORA tennis now--Rob-3251. SH-TII (& not just on Pitt!) I'm in dire 
A chauvin;st 

shoes--whrte wrth blue stripe. If found. NEED 8 G.A.S FOR PITI. MUST BE IN need of 3 GA's or 3 studenllickets for ND please contact Chris. at3113 THANKS!!! PAIRS CALl KEVIN AT 8636. HELP !I I DESPERATELY NEED PITI vs. Pitt. Call Jean al284-4147. GA'S OR STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALL 

WANTED 

SODOM AND GOMORRAH GETLOST A SILVER COLORED BACK­I need tickets to any rema1mng home DICK AT 288-7273 WANTED: PITI GA'S. CALL GERRY AT PACK WITH TEAR IN BOTIOM. CON­game (NAVY. PITI. or AIR FORCE) Call 1604. KEEP TRYING IF YOU DON'T PSYCHED FOR PITT THIS FRIDAY 
NITE AT SODOM AND GOMORRAHTAINS IMPORTANT NOTES. HAS THE Joe at 1208 BEFORE you sell yours. ACIDC AT THE ACC FRI. NOV 4 GET REACH ME 
WORD MacGregor WRITIEN ON THE YOUR TICKETS AT THE ACC NOW!!!! NEED 2 PITI TICKETS PLEASE I can TUNE-UP your car! call JAM at 1586SIDE IN BLACK. PROBABLY LOST ON $$$$WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR 4 ADVISE. ..7979 FRIDAY. OCT. 14. IF YOU FIND IT. MY PITIGA'S$$$$CALLJOHN 1610 NEED 4 OR MORE GAS FOR PITI GRADES WILL THANK YOU. REWARD GAME. WILL PAY BIG MONEY. CALl need Pitt GAs 282-1756 IS OFFERED. CALLJIM AT 1766. I NEED PITI TICKETS. DESPERATELY 284-5180. MAUREEN. 
I NEED Pm GA'S CALL DAVID AT277­
1326.

NEED GA OR STD. TICKS FOR 4 GOR­RIDE NEEDED FRIDAY 11/04 OR 11/03 

PERSONALS 
FOUND PORTRAIT OF GIRL THE GEOUS GIRLS· IT MAY BE WORTH I NEED 4 PITI GAs. ALL TOGETHER OR TO EXIT 4 ON OHIO TURNPIKE. CALL PORTRAIT WAS FOUND IN A PIANO YOUR WHILE !I CALL TOM 8549. ANY 2 PAIRS. ERIC-3597. 2737 PRACTICE ROOM IN CROWLEY HALL ........ ·························-······ ...... ······-~HfJJH• 
ATTENTION JUNIORS We are in need of an
OF MUSIC. WRITIEN ON THE BACK WANTED: 3 STUD. PITI. TIX. CALL NEED 2 AIR FORCE STUD. TIX. Call Sue NEED 1 Pm GA OR STU TICK BAD­GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT!! TRY A artistic person to design the cover fUr the OF THE PHOTO IS THE FOLLOWING STEVE 8885. 8050. LY!! CALL 1972 FOR A GOOD DEAL DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE Junior Parents Weekend Mass program.
TO GARY. WITH ALL MY LOVE. 
YELLOW SUBMARINE. NOW DELIVER­Deadline is Friday Novem~r 11. For details YOURS ALWAYS. LISA. CALLJOHN AT PITI-Need up to three stu. lix. Will pay Need 4 PITI TIX!! Student or GA. Call Need a ride to East Lansing 11/11. 
ING MON-SAT 9-12pm. CALL 272-4453 call Erin at 8001.
8318TOCLAIM. cash. Call3384 ask for Mike. Colleen 6882. Please call Melody. 284-4298 
The Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1983 -page 8 J 
• • • Tricks 

conrinuedfrom page 12 
Navy, mc:anwhik. wa~ hdd to just 
l. I yards in the: second quarter, hut it did t·onn'ft on a 56-yard ftdd goal early in thl· Sl'cond period to trim the: Irish halftiml' lead to 1--t-5. 
Early in tht· second half, Navy showl·d that it meant husinl'SS as it drovt· 5'-J yards to tht· Notrt· Dame: 
51. From there:, Stl'Vl" Young kicked a ·IH-yard field goal 10 nil Notre Damt·'s lead to eight points. 
That was incentive enough to rt·­storc: some: crispness in the Notre l>amt· otfensiVl' attack. Led by the wdl-poisl·d Ikuerlein, the Irish drove th(' hall 77 yards in I I plays for a touchdown and a 21-6 ad­vantagt·. Beuerlein, who completed half of his I H passes t<>r I 0 3 yards, demonstratnl his uncanny ability to u>mc: up with the big play in the touchdown drive. 
First, on a third-and-eight he drilled an I H-yard pass to Howard to kn·p tht· drive alive:. Later, on a third-and-nine, he rolled right, scrambled, and then picked up the first down with a grc:at sc:cond effort dive. 
On the nc:xt play, Pinkett left Navy ddendt·rs grasping air as he bolted six yards into the end zone. 
In between the two third down situations, freshman flanker Alvin Miller ran his own end-around reverse for 19 yards. 
Faust continues ((, hl· imprt·ssed with lkucrlein's development. 


Rod Carew files for free agency 
Associated Press 
NEW' YORK -Rod Carew, a seven-timt· American League hatting t·hampion, and outt1dder Dan Ford of the: world champion Baltimore <;rioles wt·re among tht· st·ven playt·rs who fikd for fret· agency ovt·r the wt'l'kc:ml. tht· Major lxague Players Association said yt·sterday. 
With a Monday midnight deadline for tiling, 46 players have made themsdves available for the re-entry draft, set for nt·xt Monday. 
Cart·w, ;\H, a first baseman, batted .:\39 for tht· California Angels this year. Ford batted .2HO with nine homers and 'l'l runs battt·d in for the Orioles. 
Others filing over the weekend in­cluded pitchersJR. Richard, the for­mer Houston Astros' star who hasn't hurled in the majors since suffering a stroke in 1980, and Jerry Koosman, who posted an I I-7 record and a 
4.77 earned run average for the Chicago White Sox this year. He turns 40 in December. 
First baseman Enos Cabell, who batted . 31 I with five homers and 46 RBI's for the Detroit Tigers last season, reserve infielder Kiko Garcia of the Philadelphia Phillies and reserve outfielder Miguel Dilone of the Pittsburgh Pirates also opted for free agency. 
Catcher Bob Boone, who had been eligible for free agency, re­signed yesterday with the California Angels. He received a three-year contract. 
r~~~~~~~, 
Spring Semester 

t 
t1BEROAMERICAN t
1 PROGRAM I  
t  t  
f  Mexico City  t  
t  Applications due  t  
t  NOVEMBER1  t  

~~~o~~~~c~n!J 
"lit· analyzes the gamt· well," said Faust. "( >ne of his most amazing qualities is that when he makes a mistake or somt·thing goe~ wrong, ht· forgets about it right away. lie doesn't Girl)· it to the next play and that's kn." 
Navy refused to give in, and that was the key for them to stay in tht· game until the fourth quarter. 
When Pinkett fumbled on Notre 
Dame's next possession, the Middies 
had possession at the Notre Dame 
IS. Four plays later, Napoleon 
McCallum blasted three yards into 
the endzone. 
Navy had two more chances to cut into Notre Dame's 21-12 lead, hut the Notre Dame defense simply put too much pressure on the gritty, hut outmanned, Navy team. McCal­lum and fullback Bryan Caraveo had respectable rushing days, but they were amazed with Notre Dame's ability not to give up the big play. 
"Their defensive secondary and linebackers really pursue the ball well," said McCallum, whose 92 yards in 24 carries was almost 70 yards short of his pre-game nation leading rushing average. "I couldn't go anywhere with them around," la­mented McCallum. 
Notre Dame's own outstanding 

. : . 


., 

:. :·.
Pttase allow 6-8 weeks for· processing, Offer void 'where prohibited, taxed or • .'-1· · · ' "' 
restricted by law. Good only In llS.A., PUerto Rk:oand I!S. GoY'! Installations. · · . · . • ' •· *API'OO.f of pu.rcllase Is the "cup with letters GAC" cUt from the plasjlc lid.. -· _J·. '. . 
· · Offer expires June.30, 1984. . · . · •. . ··· ' · ·.:._ ... 
---;-~------~~FU:R~-;-U;;-N~-~----: ~1· ·.
50 .50 .I.OFFER EXPIRES JUNE:30, 1984.;· . . ·. 

Here's 50~ to help you celebrate with ··· ...1.. 
,I



~~~:a~.c:~ .,r 

5 

43000 84850 
tailback Pinkl·tt also had difficulties Saturday. In the: t1rst halfhe hat d only -i 7 yards in 12 carries. He did manage to t1nish with I21 yards on 29 carries, as he broke a Notre Dame 
record  by  rushing  for  his  fifth  
straight I00-yard game.  
Pink1:tt gained  3 7 yards on  four  

carries in Notre Dame's last touch­down drive, including the t1nal three yards for the score. Highlights in the '\2-yard, seven play drive included a 22-yard sl·amper by Pinkett, and a I7-yard completion by Beuerlein to Howard on a third-and-eight situa­tion. 
Coming off an injury, fullback Smith was another bright spot, as he gained 6<; yards in II carries while providing his usual outstanding blocking. 
Defensively, Mike Golic and Mike Kovaleski led the team with twelve tackles apiece. Golic, Mike Gann, and Eric Dorsey each had two quar­terback sacks, and Kovaleski chipped in on another one. 
"It wasn't a pretty game execution-wise," summarized Faust, "but it was an excellent game as far as hitting goes." 
But it was the well-executed trick plays by the Irish that spelled defeat for Navy. 
each hc!t pot.-B$rid ~urchase• to: · · . ' 

Hot Pot Offer, General Foods torpor,l!tiOl:l · •.. ·( ~' • 
,: ov''

3Sttlart O~lve, RO. BOx 3565, . ; · ' ·... ' ... . . .. ~ 
~~· '· ; ~ ;· ., .

Kankakee, Ill. 6090? -· . · : · . •.. . ,'.; 
.~ .,. .:. ..·· 
··.. ·•· :.:;..·.·

Send · hotpotsto: -·. • • •, :\ 
·.·· . •..:. ~-'!. ;_ . ' .t
1 

Slf~ . z . . . ·•.. --·1· :::_;. ' . 
. .·.,.• .· 
..•··.· .; ... 

oo ~-----·liiiiii~ _1--S 
Tills COUpoO good only on purc;hase of_any_fiavor of General Foods lnternatlondl catf8es. Any othar 
Is 

use constitutes fraud. COUI'IIIIIIOT TRAI!af£WLE. IJMIT.,-011£ COIJPOIII'EIII'IlftCHAal • ., To The Retailer General Foods Corporation will reimburse fOr the f~e value Of thts coupon plus 7C · 
··1 ~ 

" submitted In compliance wtth General Food~ Corporation Redemption Polley C-1, ,Incorporated u. herein by reference. Valid only If red8emed by retail distributors ot our merchandise or anyqne . iii specifically authorized by General Foods Corporation. Gash value 1120C. Mali to: . .;.l.'~. : 
General Foods Corporation. P.O. Bo~ 3565, ~kakee,lll. 60902. "' ~ 
. . @
50 

"fh~ Observer/Thorn Brown 
After seeing his team pull ofa successful trick each ofthe past two weeks, Irish coach Gerry Faust joked tha maybefullback Chris Smith, shown here turning the comer against Navy, would be throwing the ball this week. Details of the team's trick plays are given in the game stories on the back page. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1983-page 9 

The Maryland Terrapins upset prel'iously un­beaten North Carolina last weekend to climb to seventh in this week's Associated Press college 
Hues fall to 0-9 


Three division leaders are upset 
Associated Press streak. nesota dropped to 6-3. 
linebacker Shelton Robinson Come-from-behind efforts by the 
ignited slow-starting Seattle with a Pittsburgh Steelers and Cleveland 
The San Francisco 49ers, Los An­12-yard fumble return for a touch-Browns continued the frustrations 
geles Raiders, and Minnesota .down and the underdog Seahawks ofthe league's two winless teams. 
Vikings. all division leaders, were went on to whip the Raiders, 34-21, Frank Pollard ran two yards for a 
the prime victims in Sunday Nation­for their second victory over the touchdown with 31 seconds left as 
al Football League upsets. American Conference West leaders the Steelers overcame seven tur­
Richard Todd threw for 20 l yards in three weeks. novers and an NFL record 42 carries as he led a balanced, virtually errm­The lowly Cardinals, meanwhile, by Tampa Bay's James Wilder for a free Jets' offense and the New Yor~ knocked off the NFC's Central­1 7-12 victory over the 0-9 Buc­
defense contained San Francisco's leading Minnesota Vikings, 41-31. caneers. runners in a 27-13 victory over the Neill.omax fired two touchdown Boyce Green sprinted 20 yards up National Conference West Division passes to Roy Green and one to Pat the middle ft or a touchdown on the kaders. Tilley, and Ottis Anderson ran for first play following an interception 
Cornerback Jerry Holmes ran 136 yards and a touchdown in St. in overtime as the Browns sent the 
back an interception 43 yards for a Louis, leading the Cardinals to their Oilers to their 16th straight defeat, 
touchdown in the final minute to 41-31 upset over Minnesota. 25-19. The loss was the second 
seal the victory for theJets, now 4-5 The victory was only the Car­straight in overtime for Houston, 0-9 
after snapping a three-game losing dinals third 1 this season, and Min-this season. 
Traditional champions apparently lose titles 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON Huskies, 27-24, behind Rick AssociatedPress Neuheisel's record 25-of-27 passing and took a one-game lead in the Pac­
The titles of Beast of the East and I 0. 
the Best in the West apparently have Elsewhere, top-rated Nebraska 
new owners. pounded Kansas State, 51-25, 
"I guess they are No. 1 in the East runner-up Texas rallied in the if they beat us," Penn State Coach second halfto defeat Texas Tech 20­Joe Paterno said after the Nittany 3 and take a one-game lead in the Lions, who had recovered from an Southwest Conference. seventh­0-3 start by winning five in a row, fell ranked Miami of Florida whipped to Boston College 27-17. The Eagles No. 12 West Virginia, 20-3, and No. were tied for 19th with Notre Dame 10 Southern Methodist stopped in last week's Associated Press col­Texas A&M three times from the l· lege football poll. yard line in the final period to 
Meanwhile, eighth-ranked Michi­preserve a 10-7 victory. gan, which has won or shared 10 of the last 14 Big Ten titles and whose fight song even proclaims the Wol­

Morgan
verines as "champions of the West," 
dropped out of a tie for the league 
lead by losingto No. 9 Illinois, 16-6. 

released by
"Who are we kidding? I feel we are the favorites to go to the Rose Bowl," said Illinois Coach Mike 

Phillies 
White. 
Associated Press 

It was a weekend in which at least PHILADELPHIA Second-
two more national championship baseman Joe Morgan asked for and 
hopefuls fell from the ranks of the received his unconditional release 
unbeaten. Third-rated North from the Philadelphia Phillies, the Carolina saw its perfect record club announced yesterday. 
ended by No. 13 Maryland, 28-26, in Phillies President Bill Giles said in 
an Atlantic Coast Conference thril­a statement, "I spoke with Joe 
ler, while fifth-ranked Florida, several times last week and he hadn't 
previously unbeaten but once-tied, made up his mind regarding next 
lost, 28-21, to No. 4 Auburn, which season. There was a clause in his 
tied sixth-ranked Georgia for the contract in which we had an Oct. 31 
Southeastern Conference lead. The deadline for renewing his contract 
Bulldogs won a non-league affair for 1984." 
from Temple 31-14. "Joe requested that the Phillies 
Eleventh-ranked Washington was exercise their option not to renew 
the only member ofthe Top Twenty his contract and he be given his 
to lose to an unranked opponent. release so that if he decided to play 
UCLA, winner offour in a row since next season, he could play closer to 
an 0-3-1 start, knocked off the home." 

THE HUDDLE 
239-7157 

OAK ROOM CAFE 239-7518 
MENU 
Caviar Pizza 14" $10.00 Leprechaun Special Pizza 9.00 Pepperoni Pizza 6.80 Mushroom Pizza 6.80 Sausage Pizza 6.80 Peppers & Onions 6.80 Black Olives-Anchovies pizza 6.80 Cheese Pizza 5.80 
D With every order of pizza (1 full14" pizza) you receive 1 2-litre bottle of Coke. Offer expires 11·11·83 
OPERATING HOURS FOR DELIVERY TO DORM OR 
·•'ffiV'l U..ol.lft:U ,..,~ •" 

OTHER CAMPUS FACILITIES: 9:00pm ·12:30 am Huddle 
9:00 pm · 12:00 pm Oakroom 
.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1983-page 10 
At age 88 


Bears' founder, owner Halas dies 
Associated Press 
CIIICA<OO -Georgt: Halas, a piont:t:r of tht: National Football Lt·agut· and ti>Unller and ownn of tht: Chicago Bt:ars, llkll last night at tht: agt· of HH. 
Halas llkll at his home on 

Chicago's North Sillt· just bdort: 9 
p.m. CST, according to Rich McCas­kt:y, his grandson. 
Hala.'>, who founllt:ll tht· Bears and 

bankrollt:ll tht:ir tirst tdevist:ll 
games out of his own pocket, hall 
been ill with heart disease, 
pancreati..: disea.~e and various other 
ailments for about one year. 
Halas, born Feb. 2, 1895, was pioneer and patriarch of the Nation­al Football Legue. He was the last survivor of a group of men who founded and organized professional football in a Canton, Ohio, 
automobile agency in 1920. 
He played, he coached, he sold tickets and in tht: early days before tht: great media floods, ht: even wrote stories of the games and went to various newspapers to have results of the games printed. 
llai;L~ was around when the players passed hats throughout the stands to collect money and he was around when sponsors wt:rt: paying hundreds and thousands of dollars for a commercial minute on televi­sion. 
Despite the game's popularity today, it was a long and great struggle in the t:arly years. There were times Halas pa t id his players with lOlls and later, in tht: throes of the Great Deprt:ssion in the 1930s, llala.~ had to borrow $5,000 from the late sportsman Charles Ilidwill to kt:ep the Bears afloat. 
Aftt:r graduating from the Univer­sity of Illinois and a stint in the Navy during World War I, Halas briefly played right field for the New York Yankees until he broke a hip sliding into third base with a triple. 
The following year, Halas went to work for the A.E. Staley Co., in Decatur, Ill., "to learn the starch business" and became the firm's ath­letic director. 
Halas organized the Decatur Staleys football team and was in line for a promotion in the glucose department of the starchworks when the 1921 depression hit. The company couldn't underwrite the team any longer so "Mr. Staley gave me $5,000 to move the team to 
Chicago and call them the Staleys for one year." 
Hala.~ movt:d the team to Wrigley Field and the following year adopted the name of the Chicago Bears. Despite financial difficulties, Halas managed to hold onto the team. He was instrumental in changing the rules to step up scoring and modernized the game but it wasn't 

Late Moseley kick _gives Redskins victory 
Associated Press goal attempts of ·14, 52, -l7 and 39 SAN DIEGO, Calif. Mark yards. Mosdt:y, who hall missnl four field 
Then, in the fourth quarter, Lut­goals in the game, booted a 57· her, a ti>urth-year pro from San joseyarder with nine seconds remaining State who was making his secondlast nilo(ht to give tht: Washington career start. regained his composureRnlskins a 27-24 National Football and tired TD strikes of 23 and 27Ll-agut· victory over the San Diego 
yards to tight end Pete H~>lohan and
Chargers. 
wide receiver Wes Chandler,Mosdt·y's kick dasht·d a brilliant respectively. in a four-and-one-halffourth-pniod comeback by the minute span.
Chargers, who hall comt: from a 24-7 lletkil to tk the gamt: 24-24 with Chandler's touchdown, which 
I :52 remaining on Rolf Benirschke's dosed the gap to 24-21, canie with 
43-yard field goal. 4:13 left and capped a 99-yard drive. After losing a 17-point lead, the 
Benirschkc's tying field goal came 
Rellskins drovt· '2 yards in nine aftt:r james Brooks returned a punt
plays for Mosdey's winning field 30 yards to the Washington 30 with 
goal. 
2:59 remaining.
Until the dramatic comeback, the Rellskins' defense had made life 
On the winning drive, Washing­miserable for San Dkgo quarterback 
ton quarterback joe Theismann con­Ell Luther, who was interceptt:d six 
verted a third-and-seven play with a times, sacked once and fumbled 
seven-yard completion to running once. The Rellskins turned three of 
back joe wa.~hington to keep the drive alive. One play later, he hit
the interceptions into I 7 points. But tht: Redskins failed to increase 
wide receiver Art Monk on a 25-yard gain to tht: Redskins' 44. 
their margin as Moseley missed field until 1925 that the game began "catching on." 
Then came the great maneuver. Halas eventually enticed Red Grange, the Galloping Ghost from Il­linois, to turn professional after negotiating a $100,000 deal with 
C.C. (Cash & Carry) Pyle, probably pro football's first noteworthy agent. 
On Thanksgiving Day in 1925, Grange made his professional debut and the Bears packed Wrigley Field with a crowd of36,000. 
"Ifthere had been room, we could have put in another 30,000," said Halas. "We went to New York and drew 65,000 the day after the Army­Navy game drew 60,000." It was the beginning Qf a coast-to-coast tour in which the Bears played 16 games from Nov. 26 through Jan. 31, inter­rupted by a two-week rest. 
Halas had turned pro football into a big time sport. 


Is this retirement? 

Borg continues to beat the best 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. -Bjorn 
Borg is retired from professional 
tennis, right? 
Then why is he still heating some 
of the best players in the world? 
Sunday night it was hard-serving 
Roscoe Tanner whom Borg defeated 
7-6, 7-6, to win the Merrill Lynch 
Tennis Cup in an exhibition at the 
Met Center. 
But Borg insists he is retired from competitive tennis forever. 
''I'm happy with the way I'm doing everything," the Swedish player said. "I play maybe five hours a week now, instead of 25. I like to stay in shape, but you have to work hard to train, and I like to do other things besides just tennis." 
Borg added, "I have no health problems or injuries ... I've always been lucky, but I've just decided to retire. The decision was hard to make, but now that I've made it, it's not tough anymore." 
Still, since his retirement in january, Borg has played exhibitions and a few tournaments because of prior commitments. And among those he's defeated in the last 10 months are Jimmy Connors, Ivan Lend! and john McEnroe. 
"Bjorn's game you can judge on the big points," Tanner said after losing the tie-breakers 7-3, 7-5. 

IF YOUR FUTURE PLANS ARE 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP 
UP IN THE AIR, MAYBE THEY BELONG THERE. 
Inc 

In Roseland one half mile north 
The Army has 8,500 aircraft, and 
ofcampus on U.S. 31 
we 
Nov. 83 Sale: 
can train you how to keep their flight control and communication equipment in top-flight condition 

1. Monarch Helmets ........ $25.00 
as an Avionic Mechanic. If you're 
2. Bicycle Caps ............. $3.00 
a high school grad, you could 
3. Super Sport Generator set $25.00
qualify to train in this exciting and very valuable skill. For more infor­
4. Letour Generator sets .... $16.00 
mation, call your local U.S. Army 
5. Kryptonite & Citadel locks $26.00 
Recruiter: 
6. Brackets for locks ........ $2.50 
SGT JONES, 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 


"Look what he did in the tie­ing business, used nine service aces, breakers. He hit passing shots, good a variety of deadly ground strokes winners. Nothing has changed." and soft lobs in displaying near­
Borg. who at 27, plays hockey, championship form against Tanner, jogs and oversees a designer doth-32. 
CHAUTAUQUA presents ... HEAVY METAL 
Tuesday Nov. 1 
7, 9, 11 pm 
Admission $1.00 

Q 
(.;uhn"bla
Pktuu•t 

MATH (MAJORS/MINORS/APTITUDE) ... 
You're Needed All Over the World. 
Ask Peace Corps Moth volunteers why their degrees ore needed in the classrooms of the world's developing nations. Ask them why ingenuity and flexibility are as vital as adopting to a different culrure. They'll tell you their srudents know Math is the key to a solid furure. And they'll tell you that Peace Corps odds up to a career experience full of rewards and ac­complishments. Ask them why Peace Corps is the toughest job you'll ever love. 
Peace Corps Reps on Campus Nov. 8, 9 &10. Interested Seniors sign up for interview in the Placement Office 
PEACE CORPS 
~~ ,,.,... '-"-'................... 1'........,, •• .,.••,."'......... , .......,...............~.-•••-.. •...•.•·.·.·.·.·.·.-.·.-•••-'•"•"·'"""",........ '--~=-'.Jt.,...-........o#'..·~-· ... .,......• -•·••.. •......-.... •.·.-.........~.!....,.... ,_...... ,..,~ • .., ............................, ..,,,,,,.,.. , .. ,, ......... 
1­
']I['~~C3l~------------------------------------------T·u·e-sd_a_y_,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r
__1,_1_9_8_3____P_a_ge__l__l 
Bloom Co11nty 
MWT10 ~Y! @J6f<:IWilY..."re551UREO 
W... BAV Ne!IJ5, 

weve .mrARRANGW AN!711£ llU'C.Kii£AI75 " 
IN51m' iD HAVf, 1'£1/NY HA!Je JJSf CANW..el? 
R(J(;iR5 ANI7 5Hff.NA f!.A~ON AT11£ L.A5T /IIIN~. 
~ OOf ANI7 51N0 "YOIJ U0HT UP MY Uf€. ~ 
\ 

I 


Fate 

rNY'lf£/fiJI.DIN~ ~.11011 Nfaltltll I/IUMS u.-THaC. _. fEMEo rNift A /llllrff(rC SITUAnDI( 11JfH(' OCIEUP. 

Mellish 

Berke Breathed 

Photius 
Dave & Dave 

The Dail~r Crossword 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
11/1/83 

Campus 
•3 
p.m.-Varsity Soccer, NO Men vs. Grace Col· lege, Cartier Field 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Raccoon Roundrooms: A Cause of Animal and Human Diseases," Dr. Kevin Kazocos, 278 Galvin Life Sciences Center 

•7 
p.m. -Volleyball, ND Women vs. St. Mary's College, ACC 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Heavy Metal," Lafortune Ballroom, Sponsored by Undergraduate Club 

•7:30 
p.m. -Fall Festival Variety Show, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ladies of ND, Tour and reception, Center for Social Concerns 

•8 
p.m. -Distinguished American Women Lecture Series, "Therapy in the Nuclear Age," Helen Caldicott, Library Auditorium 


TV Tonight 

--------------------------------------·-----------------------------------­
Student Union .........................................................~ WHAT DOES THE
PRINTIP~·G SERVICE STU£?ENT UNION RECORD STORE 
L.....H EA PER PRICES... Sovf' 14-32 •Jtlm pru:es.'
New. RepiOICing campus Press 
HAVEFORME?
MOST CURRENT SINGLES-16.5orcompa"o'
Bring came,ra-ready poster art 
18.99/IS/) 

Notre Dame CUT-OUTS... J>.98-!J"" 
• GREAT SELECTJO!v' ... sprm~st!'t'n, fof(etbn.~. srevett'
to S.U. l~ecordStore 
e \l(kJ, Chnslopher Crnn. Moody Blue5. Put &na1ur. Jour"le\ and 
for your posters and table tents 
I I •: ma11y, man~· mort' ... 
: ALSO... r~mrdPdundblanA rapeSOIIQIIabl~
I 

I e CONV£NJ£NC£... ThPI'YDSURPt·ordSror¥ts/U(·at¥d 
: •mthrMumFiuora/LaFortum•
I 

8 Plus-urd~rrd albums taJu only an' K"Nk rn urrn~!
I 

l I 
Student Union I 
--------------··------------------------------------L-------------------------------------------------~-~ 



Far Side 
Chron1cle 

"Now, Grog! Throw! ... Throoooooow! Throw throw throw throw throw throw! . 
6:30p.m. 7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
Sp.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
11p.m. 
11:30p.m. 

16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 MASH 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Hall 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune 34 Straight Talk 16 ATeam 22 The Mississippi 28 Just Our Luck 34 NOVA 28 Happy Days 16 Remington Steele 22 Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 34 Vietnam: A Television History 28 Oh Madeline 16 Bay City Blues 28 Hart to Hart 34 Brighton Beach 16 NewsCenter I 6 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Big Red Football 16 Tonight Show 22 TrapperJohn/McCloud 28 Thicke of the Night 
1 Avoid Egypt 
5 Balderdash 36 Took off 10 Leaf 37 Ninny 
14 Vocal 38 Conflict 
bounce 40 Tax letters 15 Crimson dye 41 Wave: Sp. 16 Kazan of 42 Road map 
films abbr. 17 Beneficence 43 Walking­20 Colonial 45 ldi­
insect 46 Exclama· 21 Broadcast tion of 22 Out of surprise 
practice 50-march 23 Footed vase (etape) 24 Swamp 51 Apex 
critter 52 Dress style 27 Horner 55 Tablet 
utterance 56 Monk 34 Mandlikova 59 Dance 
of tennis closer? 
Saturday's Solution 
I 
' 
1 


11/1/83 
64 Ancient 
writing 65 Utter 66 Toward the 
center 67 Jewish 
month 68 Insects 69 Equal 
DOWN 1 Before ton or phone 2 Religious image 3 "A-in the 
Dark" 4 Turf 5-off 
(starting) 6 Leonine vocalizing 7 Mid-East 
power: abbr. 8 Hole 9 Camp. pt. 
10 Indigence 11 Beverages 12 Main part 13 Free from 
trouble 18 -·kiri 19 Talks 
foolishly 23 Hagen of the stage 24 Tibetan 
gazelle 25 Regard with esteem 

26 Certain 
beam 27 Dock 28 Must 29 Goose genus 30 Rosie­31 Attractive 
smell 32 Hindu chief 33 Silly 38 Expression· 
less 39 Celebes ox 44 Successful 
candidates 45 Deadly 
serpent 47 Male honker 48 Pursues 
steathily 49 Fountain 
treat 52 Indian city 53 Stentorian 54 Hebrides 
island 55 Egyptian 
god 56 Amerce 57 Anatomical 
network 58 Hebrew 
instrument 60 Doctrine 61 Mail 
letters 62-up . (excited) 63 Ice cream portion 
Sports 
Tuesday, November 1, 1983-page 12 
Irish win two over break to raise record to 6-2 
Take advantage of two early trick plays en route to routine win over Navy ... 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI It marked the second week in a made my break. Once the play was Sports Writer row that a trick pass play worked to called in the huddle, I said 'Let's get perfection. Pinkett had tossed a S9-it this time."' 
Taking advantage of two early yard rainbow the previous week to "Maybe next week we'll see if trick plays, the Notre Dame football Mark Bavaro that set up the first Smitty (fullback Chris Smith) can team jumped out to a quick 14-0 touchdown against USC. pass," joked Notre Dame Head lead on its first two possessions And just as Pinkett had failed to Coach Gerry Faust after the game. Saturday afternoon. And the Irish complete his trick pass in practice Navy found out that its greatest as­made that lead stand up as they went before the USC game, Howard had set on defense -its tremendou: on to a routine 2!-1-I 2 victory over his own difficulties during the week. ability to pursue the ball at the point Navy. ofattack -became its worst enemy 
In the four weeks prior to the on both ofNotre Dame's big plays. Navy game, Notre Dame had out­"Our defense played well, but we scored its opponents by a S 1-3 get fooled too easily," said Navy count in the first quarter. The Irish Head Coach Gary Tranquil after­once a,.:ain took the initiative to bury ward. "We keep preaching ag­their opponent early. gressiveness, but that led us to 
On their first offensivl· play, from overpursue on those plays and we their own .:\3. the Irish decoyed Al­got burned." kn Pinkl·tt on a sweep and then ran Navy linebacker Andy Ponseigo, an l·nd-around reverse with split end whose 21 tackles in the game led Joe lloward. Led by a big block from both teams, echoed his coach's a pulling Mike Kelley, lloward raced sentiments. :\0 yards down to the Navy 37. "They fooled us with those big 
T .he clutch passing ofSteve Beuer· plays," said Ponscigo. "They got 14 
lein took over from there. On a points on a couple ofcrazy plays that third-and-five, lkuerlcin completed put us down." a 12-yard strike to flanker Milt Jack­But while they were down, they son. Fadng a third-and-seven situa­were far from out. tion onl· minute later, thl· freshman Thanks to some excellent punting signal-caller flipped an eight yard by Mark Colby, Notre Dame's next pass to Pinkell for another first four drives started from the Navy down. one, seven, 11 and 20 yard-lines. The 
One play later from the five, Irish managed to total only 67 yards lkuerlein hit the leaping Ja<:kson in in those drives. the l'nd zone to give Notre Dame a 
see TRICKS, page 8 
7-0 lead. 
It took thl· sophomore Jackson 19 games to score his first career touch­down at Notre Dame, but it took him 

... after history was repeated when fired­
just three minutes to score his second, which came on Notre 

up Notre Dame squad trounced Trojans 
Dame's next possession. From the Navy 49, Pinkett carried 

By LOUIE SOMOGYI Dame fans home happy too, ao;; they for nine yards. One play later, the ball twice to the 29 yard-line. On 
Sports Writer routed USC. Pinkett burst through a tremendous the next play, Howard was lateraled 
"I brought out the jerseys because hole in the middle for I I yards and the ball for apparently another end­
OCTOBER 22 -History was it was six years to the day that Notre his first touchdown ofthe game. around play. This time, though, 
repeated and fulfilled at Notre Dame Dam·e brought out the green jerseys As usual, Pinkett was quick to Howard pulled up and hit Jackson, 
Stadium today as the fired-up Notre against Southern Cal," said Head point out the offensive line as the who was open downfield, for the 
Dame team trounced USC, 27-6. Coach Gerry Faust after the game. key to his success. score. 
It marked the end of an amazing While most of the fans in the "When they're in the mood to string ofcoincidences that the Notre stands were enamored with the hit," said Pinkett, "they can open up Dame class of 1978 and this year's green,. the Irish offensive unit began some gigantic holes."
'Huskers, 'Horns stay 
present senior class have had against to "Think Pink." Linebacker Jeff Brown, who had the Trojans. In one of his best all-around per­16 tackles on the afternoon for the As freshmen, in 1974 and in 1980, formances at Notre Dame, tailback Trojans, agreed. 
the two classes traveled to Los An­Allen Pinkett accounted for 191 "Notre Dame h;L~ a very good of­geles with nine victories and a yards of total offense as he led the fensive line," said Brown, "and they chance for the national champion­Irish to a 17-0 halftime lead. played hard today. I think their line 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON two first-place votes and 1,123 ship if they could beat the Trojans. After the first Irish drive stalled is very complimentary for the run­Associated Press points. However, both teams were beaten with a missed 49-yard field goal at­ning of Pinkett. They blow off the La'it week, with S!-1 voters par­badly on national television a<; their tempt by Mike Johnston, Pinkett line and get in your face. And Pinkett Nd1raska and Texa~ remained 1-2 ticipating, Nebra<;ka led S4-4 in first­hopes for No. 1 ended. took over the show on the next is so quick that he's gone before you 
li>r the seventh week in a row yester­place votes and 1, I S6-1, 106 in As sophomores, in 1975 and in Notre Dame possession. can react." day in The Associated Press college points. 1981 both cl;1o5Ses had to make ad­On the first play from the Notre After an exchange of punts, football poll, while Auburn and Previously unbeaten North just~ents to a-new coaching stall. Dame 20, Pinkett took the pitchout, Pinkett and Company drove SS Georgia set the stage for their Nov. Carolina lost to Maryland 28-26 and Both teams failed to go to a bowl that faked a sweep to the right side, and yards in 12 plays for thdr second I 2 Southeastern Conference show­skidded from third place to 1Oth. year, and both teams lost at home to then lofted a perfect pass to tight touchdown. The key plays in the down by moving into the 3-4 spots. Meanwhile, Auburn downed Florida USC by seven points. end Mark Bavaro, who proceeded to drive were a holding penalty against 
Nebraska, a 51-2S winner over 2!-1-21 and rose from fourth to third As juniors, in 1976 and in 1982, take the ball down to the USC 21 USC on a third-and-14 situation that Kansas State, reccivt·d S 7 of S9 first­with I,04!-1 points -the Gators both classes tra"cled back to Los An­yard-line. gave Notre Dame an automatic first place votes and I, I 78 of a possible dropped from fifth to ninth -and geles, and although they both beat "We didn't complete that pass all down, and a six yard completed pass 
atop latest AP poll 
Georgia jumped from sixth to fourth USC in the statistical categories, they week in practice," reflected Pinkett. by Steve Beuerlcin to Pinkett on a spons 1.1 !-10 points from a nationwide 
panel of writers and with 9S4 points following a 31-14 both wound up losing by the score "I had tried it three times. The first dutch third-and-five situation. sportscasters. Texa~. which defeated triumph over Temple. of17-13. time I threw a pretty spiral, but the After Pinkett picked up seven 


Miami of Florida beat West Vir­
Tl·xa'i Tech 20-3, received the other 
APTopT-nty 
The Top Twenty college football teams rn TIHJ Associated Press poll, w1th flrst·place votes m parentheses, thiS season·s records and total pornts Pornts based on 20·19·16·17 etc. Notre Dame opcments are italicized 

1  Nebraska (57)  9-0·0  1.176  
2  Texas (2)  7-0-0  1.123  
3  Auburn  7-1·0  1.048  
4  Georg1a  7-Q-1  954  
5.  Miami  8-1-0  952  
6  tllrnors  7-1·0  695  
7  Maryland  7·1·0  754  
8  So Methodist  6·1-0  750  
9.  Flonda  6·1·1  676  
10  North Carolina  7·1·0  620  
11  Oklahoma  6-2·0  526  
12  Bngham Young  7-1·0  446  
13.  Mrchrgan  6-2-0  404  
14  OhtoState  6·2-0  398  
15  Iowa  6-2-0  391  
16  Boston College  6·1·0  326  
17  West V1rgtnta  6·2·0  213  
18. NotreDeme  6-2..()  179  
19  Alabama  5-2-0  171  
20  Washrngton  6-2-0  128  
same 20 teams as a week ago. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


ginia 20-3 and vaulted from seventh to fifth with 9S2 points, while Il­linois defeated Michigan 16-6 in their Big Ten shootout and shot from ninth to sixth with 89S points. The Wolverines dropped from eighth to 13th. 
Maryland's victory over Nonh Carolina boosted the Terrapins from 13th place to seventh with 754 points and Southern Methodist, a 10­7 victor over Texas A&M, went up from 1Oth to eighth with 750. 
The Second Ten consists of Ok­
lahoma, Brigham Young, Michigan, 
Ohio State, Iowa, Boston College, 
West Virginia, Notre Dame, Alabama 
and Wa'ihington. 
The new rankings consist of the Finally, as seniors, in 1977 and in other two passes were ducks. When yards on the next play, the Sterling, 
1983, both teams electrified the they called the play I just told myself Va. native sprinted nine more yards 
Notre Dame home crowd a~ they to relax and just throw the ball." for his scnmd touchdown and a 14­
came out on October 22 in green Pinkett resumed his normal 0 Notre Dame lead. 
jerseys. Both teams sent the Notre chores on the next play as he slashed The Irish scored once more before the half as Johnston kicked a 30-yard field goal with 29 seconds left. The score wao; set up when
Campus Sports Today 
linebacker Rick Naylor made the first of his two interceptions on the afternoon and returned the ball to the lJSC 32 yard-line. lleavy pressure by Greg Dingens forced USC quanerback Sean Salisbury to 
throw a bad pa<;s. Tim Green replaced Salisbury in 
Soccer Volleyball 
NO vs. Grace N D vs. Saint Mary's 
the second half, but not much changed. like Salisbury, Green also tossed an interception to Naylor, 
3 p.m. 7 p.m. 
Alumni Field ACC Pit 
see REPEAT, page 7 






