
Billy Joel -page 7 
VOL XVIII, NO. 63 the indepemknt student newspaper st-r\·ing notn damt· and saint man ·s MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1983 

ByJOHN LAVELLE served. Rectors were requested "not candidates. Applicants will be News Staff to encourage students who do not notified oftheir status following this have an adequate G.P.A." to apply. reviewing process by letter on Feb. 
Father Gregory Green, vice presi­Resident assistants are "involved 6. dent of Student Affairs, has an­directly in helping srudents to live It will then be incumbent upon nounced that applications for together profitably in residence successful applicants to contact the resident assistant positions will be halls." They are expected to be rectors oftheir "hall(s) ofchoice" in 
available untilJan. 20 in the Office of present from the beginning of the order to schedule a personal inter­Student Affairs. orientation session of fall semester view. Rectors have final decisions 
R.A. candidates must be seniors or until the last day ofthe semester, and concerning acceptance of R.A.'s in graduate students next year, and from the opening program of the their halls, and must notify Student must pick up applications in person spring semester until its close. Affairs of their choices. The office at Student Affairs. Applicants will be R.A.'s are also expected to main­will inform selected candidates of required to present their !D's in or­tain order in the hall and provide their appointments on Mar. 12. Con­der to receive the necessary forms, general student assistance in addi­tracts for the position will be and must return completed applica­tion to evening duty a ssignments available for signature after April 12. tions to Student Affairs no later than according to formal schedules. They Jan. 20. are encouraged to know students Prospective law students must ob­
A cumulative G.P.A. of at least 3.0 well enough to be able to provide tain a "note of approval for R.A. ap­
is required, as well as three letters of help or information to them accord­plication" from the assistant dean for 
recommendation, two from resident ing to their personal needs. academic affairs at the law schooL 
hall head staff (rectors and assistant As compensation for the con­lui other prospective graduate stu­
rectors), and a third from a former siderable time and service dents should note that acceptance as 
employer. In addition, applicants requirements of the job, the univer­an R.A. does not guarantee accep­
must not have any "job" respon­sity provides free room, board, tance into a graduate program. 
sibilities for the semester(s) that laundry (rebates for women), a free 
they will serve as an R.A. Financial student parking sticker, and one half Applications are available in the 
need is not a requirement for the of the telephone installation charge. Office of Student Affairs Monday 
job. Following receipt of the applica­through Friday from 8 a.m. to 12 
In a memo concerning the selec­tions, the Office of Student Affairs noon, and I p.m. to 5 p.m. Additional 
tion process sent to all head staff, will conduct an initial screening questions should be directed to the Green stressed that the G.P.A. re­process to check on the qualifica­Office of Student Affairs or to quirements would be carefully ob-tions and fulfilled requirements of residence hall head staff. 
United Way begins new campaign in attempt to reach their 1983 goal 
By CHRISTOPHER RYAN Joseph County United Way. The part in the campaign, of which Mu­News Staff United Way chapter is currently dents have contributed 55,250, about 5200,000 short ofits goaL Mangan is hoping the university's 
A second United Way campaign Mangan added current economic tradition ofcoming through when a kicks off this week in St. Joseph conditions in St. Joseph County have need is present will hold true for the County and on campus, as the local made many ofthe county's residents United Way's second effort. He had llnited Way chapter attempts to more dependent on services oflocal much to say in commending the stu­reach its goal of S2.8 million. The agencies subsidized by the United dents' generous spirit as a whole campus campai gn will take place Way. This increased dependency thus far. from Monday, Dec. 5 to Tuesday, has led to the need for more money "Students, who for the most part Dec. 1.3. by the agencies in order to maintain are guests of the community while 
"The growing needs caused by the quality of their services offered here at Notre Dame," said Mangan, unemployment and the shrinking to the community. "have cared enough ro get behind resources caused by the ailing The second campaign, to have the United Way campaign and raise economy" have made it more im­begun today, will again be coun­several thousand dollars to support portant than ever that the United tywide and will again include a the efforts of the health and human Way reaches its goal, said Patrick campus effort. care agencies, which speaks highly Mangan, associate director of cam­Although the university has paign and communications ofthe St. reached its goal of $153,000 as its See DRIVE, page 5 
Marines attacked after bombing raid 
Associated Press Marine positions have been under," 
Brooks said. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Druse He said the Marines "opened up gunners blasted the U.S. Marine base with everything we have," including at the Beirut airport with rockets 15Smm artillery, M-60 tanks, heavy and artillery shells last night, killing machine guns and small arms. eight Marines and wounding two, a The shelling of the Marine en­Marine spokesman reported. campment ended four hours later, 
Maj. Dennis Brooks said the Brooks said. Marines came under intense fire The deaths ofthe Marines brought about 12 hours after Syrian anti­to 2S4 the number of American ser­aircraft batteries shot down two U.S. vicemen killed in Lebanon, includ­Navy jets that were among 28 ing 2.39 who perished in a suicide warplanes that launched the first trm:k-bombing of the Marine head­American air strike in Lebanon. quarters on Oct. 2.3. 
The Pentagon said a two-man A-6 A Defense Department spokes­and a single-pilot A-7 fighter­man in Washington said names of bomber were downed when the the latest victims would not be planes attacked Syrian positions in released pending notification of Lebanon's central mountains about relatives. 8 a.m. (I a.m. EST) in response to About I,SOO Marines arc sta­earlier attacks on U.S. reconnais­tioned here as part ofa multinational sance planes. peacekeeping force that also in­
One flier was rescued, at least one cludes British, French and Italian was captured and Syrian soldiers troops. said a third died ofinjuries. In Washington, White House na­
U.S. Navy warships opened fire on tional security spokesman Robert Druse positions in the mountains Sims said, "I know we've had an at­overlooking the Marine base and tack from Druse and probably Shiite thunder from their heavy guns positions around the airport at rattled buildings in Beirut. Beirut and it is pretty intense. We 
Brooks said Druse militiamen have had some casualties and we began spraying the southern end of have responded with tank and naval the Marine encampment with small gunfire.'' arms and 23mm anti-aircraft fire at White House spokeswoman about 7 p.m. (I 2 noon EST) and Sheila Dixon said President Reagan soon "the entire airport perimeter" had been briefed about the develop­was being shelled. ment. 
The naval gunfire "was the result At a black-tie reception in the of heavy, sustained artillery, rocket, 
see RAIDS page 4

small-arms and mortar fire that the 



The Observer Monday, December 5, 1983 -page 2 
In·Brief · 
BillyJoel ticketscan b~ picked up during the next two u•eeks at the Stud~nt Union tick~t office. The Student Union advises students to pick up their tickets later this week. Seating will not be aff~ct~d by wh~n tickets are picked up. -The Observer 
Fath.erJohn Reedy' assistant rector of Carroll Hall and publisher ofAve Maria press since 1953, died Friday ofleukemia at St. Joseph's Medical Cer.ter. He was SH years old. Services will be today at 3:30 p.m. in Sacred !lear! Church. Fr. Reedy, in 31 years of servic~ as a priest, was active in Catholic journalism and publishing. I k was publisher for Spiritual Book Associates and was a syndicated columnist for Our Sunday Visitor. Fr. Reedy received the 1966 Cnholic Press Association Award for outstanding contributions to Catholic journalism. -The Obseroer 
The Greyhound strike has apparently affected more than bus windshields. The Notre Dame Boston Club, which normally charters a Grt·yhound bus for ~tudents going home at Christmas break, has had to turn to Indiana Motorbus, which will charge almost SO percent more for the charter. The Indiana firm has a smaller motorpool and will return the bus to Indiana immediately after the December trip. The bus will travel back to Boston again in 
.January. Boston Club officer Mike Heineman said the extra round trip probably cost studt·nts S30 more than the regular $1 IS fare. The Boston Club meets tonight at 7 in Lafortune to discuss the matter. ­
The Obsen•er 

Theprotnotionoftwo employeesand the 
t·mployment of a new manager for compensation and benefits has been announced hy G. Thomas Bull, director of personnel at Notre Dame. Fred Freeman, assistant director the last seven years and a member of the dt·partment since 1967, has been named associate director with general administrativt· responsibilities. Terrence G. Wilkin. managn of employee relations since 1979, will be assistant director in charge of t·mployee relations, employment and train­ing/devdopment activities. Paul A. Rentschler, former manager for benefits and insurance at Bethlehem Steel Plant in Chesterton, will assume duties as manager ofcompensation and benefits. A graduate of Indiana and Valparaiso Universities, he will administer pension and group insurance bt·nefits, plan design and wage and salary plans. 
-The Obsen•er 

Of Interest . 
The annual St. Nick's Christmas Bazaar is sdlt:dulnl for Dec. S-9 from 10 a.m. to S p.m. in the LeMans Hall lobby at Saint Mary's. The bazaar is sponsored by Saint Mary's stu­dents. fat.·ulty and area craftspeople. Ceramics, Christmas cards and gift~. nn·dlework, food, rag dolls, silk tics and Irish turtlenecks are some of the availahk items. A SS ft:e was collected from each par­ticipant in the hazaar and will be donated to charity. -The Observer 
The United Way film "Hopt-s & Dreams" with Mer­lin Olsen will be shown in the Alumni Hall party room tonight at 7. United Way representative Patrick Mangan will be present to answer 4uestions about the llnited Way. -The Obsen>er 
Artificial intelligence and its applications will be the topic of a lecture series by Bruce Buchanan, co-director of the Heuristic Programming Project at Stanford University. The College of Science Lectures in Biology will take plat·e today, tomorrow and Wt·dnesday, and will bq~in at 4:30p.m. in Room B27H of the Galvin Life Science Center. In his opening talk Buchanan will describe artifi­cial intellegence and in the second lecture will discuss its applica­tions in the biomedical sciences. His third talk is titled, "Technical Concerns in Building Expert Systems." Heuristic programming is the method by which an artificial intelligence program makes intel­lcgent guesses to imitate human thought. -The Observer 
VVeather · 
Mostly cloudy today with so percent cham:e of showers. High in the upper 40's. Low tonight in the low to mid 30's. 
-The Obsen>er 

Saint Mary's housing change: No! 
Housing and room picks at Saint Mary's -it is a volatile subject on campus. Ask just about any student and she will tell you she does not want the changes which will take effect next fall. The lottery for room pick numbers and room selections are in March -only a few months away. Until then, the department of housing and residence life will be defending the new system. 
The plan is to integrate the dorms so that no one dorm will be unofficially designated as a class dorm. The drastic change will occur in Regina -the freshman dorm. The number of underclassmen in LeMans will markedly increase. Beginning with room picks this March, rooms in Regina will be allotted to sophomores and freshmen. In fact, halfofthem will be designated for sophomores. This year, approximately two-thirds ofthe freshman class lives in Regina, so not all of m:xt year's sophomores will have to live there again. Director of Housing and Residence Life Patricia Rissmeyer es­
timates that 70 sophomores Each year students move in­will be put in the "freshman to a better neighborhood ­ghetto" for the second time. from sterile cubicles of 
Regina carries the stigma Regina's singles and cement of the freshman dorm -the block of McCandless to the lowest of the low. A major homey wood paneled halls goal of the planned changes of LeMans and intricately is to remove that stigma carved banisters of Holy through integration, but for Cross. Years of tradtion can­at least 70 sophomores that not be changed by merely stigma will only brand them allotting spaces to under­as second year freshmen classmen. In the midst of who have not grown up this shuffle is the lottery ­enough to earn the privilege the deciding factor in room of moving to Holy Cross or selection. We live in the any other dorm. When stu­computer age. Saint Mary's dents have only four years to sends computer print-outs work with, no one wants to for students' telephone bills, spend two of them in tuition bills, and every other Regina. student fee possible. Yet the 
The changes in LeMans and the other dorms, McCandless and Holy Cross, (Augusta will remain the dorm for 21-year-olds) will not be as drastic. Next year's seniors breathe a col­lective sigh of relief to learn that seniority will still govern room picks for them. Distribution among juniors for LeMans will be based on the remaining ~ooms. However, the Department of Housing and Residence Life will guarantee a number ofrooms to un­derclassmen in every dorm: 125 of 544 spaces in LeMans, 183 of 362 in Holy Cross, and 214 of 294 in McCandless. Many of next year's juniors who were planning to live in LeMans will have to plan again unless they get a very low lottery number. When the number offreshmen in Holy Cross doubles next year, the num­ber ofsophomores will be cut in half 
The crux ofthe problem concerning housing integra­tion is tradition. Tradition is taken quite seriously at Saint Mary's. A major tradition is the exodus from dorm to dorm that happens every year on campus. Freshmen 
~The_Ohs.eryer_  t  
Composition Editor.................... Troy Illig  t  
Composition Assistant ............ Tom Small Typesetters ...................... Michelle & Kevm  t  
News Editor.............................. Tom Mowle Copy Editor......................... Marc & Tess  t  
Sports Copy Editor.................. Ed Konrady Features Copy Ed/tor .............jerry Young  t  
Features Layout ................ Sarah Hamilton ND Day Editor............................. Earl Baker  t  
Pbotograpber ....................... Thorn Bradley  t  
t  
t  
t  


t 
t 

Trained counselors are available to assist
t t
Notre Dame students in the discernment of
t t
their own consciences regarding whether or
t t
not they are morally willing to fight in a war
t t t t t t 
The ObMrVer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS 
t t
published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. 
t t
eKcept dunng eKam and vacat10n 
For more information contact: 
penods. The ObMrver IS published 
t t
by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys College. Subscnphons may be purchased for $25 per year 
t Margaret Garvey t 
t; ~ 

($15 per semester) by writing The Oburver. P 0 Box 0. Notre 
t Office of Campus Ministry t 
Oame, lnd1ana 46556. The ObMrVer IS a member of 
t 239·5242 t 
The Auocl.ted Pren. All 
t t
reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
------------------1 
Inside Monday 

who have done their time in Regina (Regina pronounced with a a sarcastic twist) are promoted to Holy Cross, in most cases their sophomore year. Juniors either live in Holy Cross or, if their lottery pick was low, in l.eMans. After patiently waiting four years for the privilege, seniors get to choose: Augusta, I.eMans or any other dorm they wish. McCandless has traditionally been the catch-all dorm for those who wanted to live there or who had bad room picks. 
The changes will confound this deep-rooted tradtion. 
College continues to assign room picks by the archaic method ofdrawing a number out ofa hat. 
The lottery takes hours just waiting in line to draw one number, longer than it takes to get Billyjoel tickets. At the front ofthe line are usually two women conduct­ing the lottery and two students drawing sometimes I 0 numbers -one for themselves and for each of their friends, hence a line that almost never moves. 
What will happen this March? Added to needless waste of a whole evening for students will be the frustration of getting a poor room pick. That number will carry more weight than ever before. It will brand at least 70 sophomores as second year freshmen. It will affect the social lives of every student. In fact, the purpose ofthe changes is to create a community atmos­phere rather than a segregated one. The administration can implement changes but students will still continue the tradition. 
t
DRAFT: 
t t 
MILITARY 
t t
COUNSELING t t 
t 
t t t 
t 



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 
Free University teachers sought 
By MARGARET GRAY 
News Staff 
The Free University, which is sponsored by the Notre Dame Stu­dent Union, offers people a chance to share their talents and interests with others. 
Teaching positions in the Free University are open to the students, faculty and staff of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses; however, persons in the South Bend area not affiliated with either school are also welcome to sign up as teach­ers or students. 
Those who sign up to teach a class choose what course they will teach, when and where the class will take place, how many students they wish to enroll in their class, and what materials will be required for the class. Teachers are also responsible for drawing up their own lesson plans. 
In the past, classes have been of­
fered on such topics as gambling, 
frisbee, scuba diving, poetry, and 
stereo buying. 
The classes are offered free of charge and are usually held once a week for one hour. They are offered purely as electives. No grades or credits are given to those teaching or taking the courses. 
"The Free University is a great way to share your talents, pick up a new hobby and meet new people," said Alyson Miller. This is the second year in a row that she and Debbie Rademacher have been in charge of the Free University. 
Teaching positions are still available and can be signed up for in the Notre Dame Student Union until the end of the first semester. Enroll­ment in the classes themselves will not take place until the beginning of the second semester prior to when the classes actually commence. 
Carlos Sweeney's 
Carlos presents his 
STUDENT SPECIAL 
Bring in Coupon and receive $1.00 off any lunch or dinner entree 
139 W. McKinley Ave. Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
........................................................................................................ 
Carlos~Buck 
$1.00 of any entree Dinner Special Limit: one coupon per visit, per person Coupon Good Anytime 
Monday, December 5, 1983-page 3 
The: Observer/Thorn Hradk)'

Alforone 
NBC Commentator AI McGuire took time out from a busy schedule to make a special appearance at the UClA Pep Ral(y Friday night at the ACC Pit. Unfortunately, the Irish lost. Maybe nextyearDigger will try to get Billy Packer. 
Student group plans alternatives to alcohol 
ByLIZMRLER 
News Staff 
"Happy holidays, not happy holidaze -drink responsibly" is the message of SUDS, or students using drinking sensibly, a new student group formed in response to the recent dry campus controversy. Stu­dent Body Vice President Peggy Prevoznik and Assistant Student Ac­tivities Director Joanie Neil sug­gested forming the group, which is headed by Alcohol Comissioners Peter Blood and Teresa Sawaya. 
The group's 20-25 members would like to "stress drinking responsibly and create alternatives for students on campus other than 
OVERSEAS JOBS 
Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightseeing. Free info. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 

going to a party and drinking al­cohol." In addition, they feel "there is a place for alcohol on campus but (we) would like to emphasize the fact that there are other things to do," Blood said. 
SUDS has already made plans for educating the students as well as the administration. Their plans include a poll of student opinions concerning alcohol, a demonstration on mixing alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks, workshops, radio shows, and speakers as well as the usual posters and pamphlets. In addition, they have planned a finals study break on Dec. 13 from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. Non-alcoholic refreshments will be provided as well as music and it will be open to all students. 
The group is sanctioned by the Student Activities Offfice and Stu­dent Government 
Ham radio operators call shuttle 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston-After 
talking by radio to the King of Jor­
dan, a "happy bunch" of handyman 
astronauts used a makeshift 
darkroom inside a bedroll to fix a 
jammed camera yesterday, then 
repaired and fired up a twice-broken 
furnace. 
Spacelab scientist Owen Garriott reached fellow ham radio buff King Hussein, who told him, "We're very, very, proud ofyou, and we share this pride with all the people ofAmerica, all the people ofthe world.'" 
Bob Parker and Ulf Merbold ofthe Red Team -one astronaut shift ­and Garriott and Byron Lichtenberg of the Blue Team got out tools and instructions yesterday to repair a series ofbroken experiments aboard their orbiting Spacelab. Then they charged on with the non-stop ex­perimentation they have kept up since Spacelab was launched with 
space shuttle Columbia last Monday. 
Mission commander John Young 
and pilot Brewster Shaw worked in 
the cockpit of Columbia and made 
little comment to the ground. 
The repairs boosted morale aboard Spacelab and Rick Chappel, mission scientist here, said, "They're a happy bunch up there right now." 
Monday,December5, 1983-page4
The Observer 
continuedfrom page 1 
White House, President Reagan told 
reporters, "I've just had a first 
report, no confirmation ofit." 
lie was asked if the United Stales 

would retaliate. and said, "Well, as I 
understand it, we arc right now 
returning fire from our naval ar­
tillery." 
Secrt·tary ofState George P. Shultz 

declined comment, saying,"l've just 
had a report there has been shelling 
and there are casualties." 
!"he White House said Reagan aut­

horized the morning air raid a!ld had 
vownl to order more strikes if 
Syrian anti-aircraft batteries con­
tinue to fire at American surveil­
lance planes. 
The air strikes marked the first 

time U.S. forces in the area were 
known to have attacked Syrian army 
positions, bringing the United States 
into direct military confrontation 
with the Sovil-t Union's closest ally 
in the region. 
Secretary of Deft-nse Caspar Wdnbc:rger said the Syrians were bdil-ved to be holding two of the fliers shot down yesterday morning. "We are attempting to negotiate thdr release," Reagan said. 
But a Lebanese photographer on 

assignment for The Associated Press 
said he saw a captured American at 
one crash site, as well as another 
severdy injured crewman taken 
away by Syrian soldiers. The Syrians 
later told reporters one American 
died ofhis injuries. 
The Pentagon yesterday iden­

tified the two missing fliers as Lt. 
Mark A. Lange and Lt. Robert 0. 
Goodman. 
Lange, .26, is of Frasil-r, Mich., and 

Goodman, 27, is ofPortsmouth. N.H. 
Lt. Col. Peter Friend, Pentagon spokesman, said, "We have no way of knowing tht· status of their condi­tion at this time. Only the Syrians can do that." 
The other ll.S. planes returned safely to the aircraft carriers USS In­dependence and llSS Kennedy off the Lebanese coast, the Defense Department said. 
The Pentagon said its planes dropped a variety of explosives, including conventional I,000­pound bombs and duster bombs. It gave no report of the damage caused. 
Wdnbergt·r. who spoke to repor­ters after a meeting with French lkft·nsc· Minister Charles llernu, stressed the attack was in no way conn,:cted to the Oct. .23 suicide at­tack on the Marine compound in lkirut that killed 239 American sol· dicrs. 
The raid followed by om· day an Israeli air assault in the central mountains. 
Damascus radio broadcast a state· 

mt·nt hy Khaddam saying the se­
quence of tht· raids "unveils the 
n:uure of the joint lsradi-American 
anion (a defense agn-cment) that 
was reached during the visit of Is­radi Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir recently to Washington." 
Analysis 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A strike by a heavy flight ofNavy bombers against Syrian anti-aircraft positions in Lebanon yesterday marks a sig· nificant escalation from the mostly passive role played by U.S. military forces sent there as peacekeepers. 
The air raid came three weeks af­
ter a dear warning from Robert C. 
McFarlane, President Reagan's na· 
tiona! security adviser, that the 
United States would respond if Syrian gunners continued shooting at American planes flying reconnais­sance missions over Lebanon. 
It also coincides with a more hostile attitude by the Reagan ad­ministration toward the Syrians, whom it blames for blockingevacua­tion of all foreign troops from Lebanon, and it coincides with a new U.S.-Israeli agreement for closer cooperation. 
Talk about possible U.S. military retaliation began after the suicide­truck bombing of a Marine head­quarters building at the Beirut International Airport six weeks ago, which killed 239 American ser­vicemen. 
But the Pentagon announcement 
• • .Raids 
of yesterday's strike by about two dozen A-6E intruders and A-7 Cor· sair 2s made no mention of the Oct. .23 terrorist bombing. And Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger. speaking ro reporters in Paris, stressed the attack was a retaliation for the shots fired at the reconnais· sance planes and was in no way con­nected with the bombing at the Marine compound. 
Asked whether the United States will attack any position that fires on 
U.S. forces in the future, the Pen­tagon replied: "Our forces will take action appropriate for self-defense." 
That statement leaves open the option for further U.S. air strikes, now that a precedent has been set. 
As recently as Nov. 11, Weinber­ger said he had no evidence Syria was responsible for anti-aircraft fire aimed at a Navy F-14 during a recon­naissance over the Beirut area. 
But Weinberger's attitude, and that of the Reagan administration, hardened against the Syrians in following weeks, and on Nov. 22 Weinberger flatly accused the Syrian government of "sponsorship and knowledge" of the suicide bombing of the Marine headquarters. 
In its statement yesterday announcing the carrier bomber strike against Syrian anti-aircraft bat· teries in Lebanon, the Pentagon un­equivocably blamed Syrian authorities who it said "clearly knew they were firing on U.S. reconnais­sance aircraft." 

'ltristm..as Sale 

~~,_Fine Arts Posters-$3 ~ 
~ •..-North & South Dining Halls 
'[ Dec.5-Dec.9 -Dinner 
·· r SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT LIAISON COMMITTEE OF THE SNITE 

Presentation and Reception 
Career Opportunities with Ernest and Julio Gallo Wines 
Tuesday,Dec.6 

7:00 at The Morris Inn Sponsored by the Marketing Club 
.•...• ~; .• ···.r.:···· • • . • • • • • • • • • . • . • . .•.. •. • : • ...•,-;..-.•~··, 

Deathwatch 

Anti-nucleardemonstrators stage a "die in" injrontojthe White House Saturday. A demonstrator dressed as "death" checks to see that other demonstrators have died during the mock demonstra­tion. 
....: r1.r l-'"'r ~-II'\. I 'tHF.n. 
C()ltvHIJI\IIIC!iiJJI()l\1 ~----0 JlrfEAJJJi(fc ·r-~t~()~I()A\,/ lfllll~\ ~~11:211~~ 
a 7p.mEqulnoa Flow•r {19581 Japan · -Otrecled by Yasu)rto Ozu In Japanese w1lh Enghsh subhttes color 11 8 m•n A father seeks to arrange tus daughter's marnage but she res•sts The communiCATIOn narraltVP 118ler~at IS lhlfl. but Ozu 5 patient observation f•nds profound Cl. l H E A f R f and mov1ng SIQn11icance Within the mundane I Jf\IVfA.IIIY OF flOIAE DAmE 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
0

~---lr1() ~ ll~l31ti lr--$z...,.._o-,.... 
Witt 11\ni!lllts nftltt <liastlt i 
I

'' II 
_minutes from campus I 


Hair Cut Shampoo I Blow Dry & Condition 
I 54533 T err•c•J.•n•,11 Soutlt Bend(Aero•• from Reg. $15·00 I M11rtln'• on S.R. :n) 
I Now $8·50 wittl coupon 
I I T, W B:30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons I Th 8:30-8:30
I 
Fr 8:30-6:00 I s 8:30-2:30

I ClosedMon 277-1691 272-()a12 !...--••••••••••••6.50 Savings ••••••••••••••·•.1 
''Jimi Hendrix'' 
Rock with the finest at Chautauqua/ 
Tuesday, December 6 7,9,11 Admission $1.00 
STUDY IN EUROPE 
The University of louvaln (eat. 1425) 
leuven, Belgium 
offers 
COMPLETE PROGRAMMES IN PHILOSOPH~ FOR THE DEGREES OF B.A., M.A., AND Ph.D. -plus A JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD PROGRAMME 
All Courses Are In Enghsh Tuition Is 11,500 Belgium Franks ( '!$250) 
Write To: Secretary English Programmes Kardlnaal Merclerpleln 2 B-3000 Leuven, Belgium 
KULeuven 


The Observer Monday, December 5, 1983-page 5 

Shultz visits Europe to discuss deployiDent 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State George P. Shultz left yesterday for Europe for talks with the NATO allies that will focus on East-West relations, including the new missile rivalry and the possibility of a meeting with Soviet Foreign Minis­ter Andrei Gromyko. 
Shultz will go first to Bonn to meet with West German leaders and move on to Brussels where NATO foreign ministers begin a two-day meeting Wednesday. He plans later stops in Tunisia, Morocco and Por­tugal before returning ,o the United States on Dec. 13. 
In both Bonn and Brussels, Shultz is likely to receive encouragement from U.S. allies for a meeting with · Gromyko, which could be held in conjunction with the opening of a European Disarmament Conference in Stockholm in]anuary. 
A senior State Department official
Handeling it 
said Saturday that NATO allies wil! want Shultz to provide the latest U.S. 
Two girls play their violins during last night's per-will be heldagain at 8 tonight and tomorrow nightat 
assessment ofSoviet reaction to the 
formance ofHandel's Messiah The concert, performed Sacred Heart Church. 
deployment of U.S. medium-range
by the Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra, 
nuclear missil(is in Europe. The Soviets broke off Geneva talks on 
. , 
\4 Jl,l 1 I t1f ' II'\ I '11-ll•f'' 

fC01WHIJNIICAIJII()N ~_...__(;-JlrlfAIJ~E
LIBERTY BOWL 
~r\\\t()~I()A\, 1 lfiiiLr\\\ ~1(1[?111~~ ~ ~ 
NOTRE BOSTON 
a 
Pennies from Heaven 119811 usA 9p.m. 01rected by Herber! Ross Color. 108 m1n , Penmes combmes comedy. drama. and ong1nal record1ngs
DAME COLLEGE 
!rom the ·3os m the process of constructing ··a world 
-where the songs come true.·· a world lantasrzed about by
•J)t'r pt·r..,••n·q·v!*J 

COmmUniCATIOn Arthur Parker (Steve Martrn). an unsuccessful sheel·musrc
$184* 
Motorwdcp·•. H.otl'l. 
6 1 H E A 1 R [ salesman Fantasy IS mustcal ex.travaganza as Penmes. set
(-all Tt ir df1l'Jhh' 
Tich•t, Prt'gdmf' 
or o,in~h.·· ;.dh·, Jir 

I lniVERSIIY Of noTRE DA1T1E ~e~~;.:;~~oks back atttle genre's roo1s '"a hngenng Ad missi0 n Pdrty dnd mor{' ... ,l\~il.thlt•. 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum $ December 28 thru December 30 
lrt() ~ llt(3lti lr.___._z_.o_o_,, ~source
For Reservations Call ... 
236-2656 
..:aank 
239-(7089) (6682) Badin Hall 284-2607 (Haggar College Center) 
~Join THE OBSERVER Production Department and discover :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;. a reason to stay awake! ! 
A limited number of nighttime layout employees are being hired for next semester. Some paid positions. No previous experience required. Stop by the LaFortune office for an application and more info. 
II I
~ ~
.·.· 
I 
i 




Monday, December 5, 1983 8pm Memorial Library Auditorium 
medium-range weapons when the missile deployment started. 
The health of Sovkt leader Yuri Andropov -who has not been seen in public for since August -also is certain to be discussed. Shultz said last week that Andropov has been ill, but that he didn't know how ill. 
The senior State Department offi­
cial said Shultz will engage in "a cer­
tain amount ...of relieving of 
anxieties and picking up of spirits" 
in his talks with the allies on the 
missile issue. 
The initial shipments of missile components to Great Britain and West Germany in the past two weeks resulted in widespread public protests. While the protests haven't prevented deployment, NATO leaders want to be able to reassure their nations that the West is still emphasizing negotiations with Mos­cow to curtail the missiles. 
NATO argues that the allies need to deploy U.S. cruise and Pershing 2 missiles in Europe to counter previously deployed SS-20 missiles that threaten Europe from sites in the Soviet Union. 
The Reagan administration has predicted Moscow will resume negotiations in Geneva after a face­saving period of several months. Moscow insists it won't join talks again until the allies remove the U.S. missiles. 
• • .Drive 
continuedfrom page I 
of the sense of social values and 
moral integrity students have here." 
Concerning the current campaign 
by the St. Joseph County United 
Way, Mangan has high expectations 
of the university and its students 
based on their past record of con­
tributions. 
"The fact that the university as a 
whole, as well as the students, are 
willing to go back and try again and 
put a sincere effort into a second 
campaign," he said, "is even a 
greater testimony to the university's 
sense ofsocial responsibility." 
There are some 4,000 chapters of 
the United Way in the United States, 
all of which are completely inde­
pendent and autonomous of each 
other, but are united by a common 
name and goal. 
The St. Joseph County United Way 
gives a majority of the donations it 
collects to some 35 agencies in the 
county, most ofwhose headquarters 
are in South Bend and Mishawaka. 
About four percent of the money 
donated is used to publicize and run 
the campaign, and about one per­
cent is given to the national United 
Way fund to help subsidize its efforts 
nationwide. 
Mangan pointed out the United 
Way's efforts are visible on the uni­
versity campus itself. He noted a 
prime example of the United Way's 
visibility on campus is the Logan 
Center. He also added that some of 
the ofthe United Way's donations go 
to the Red Cross, of which there is a 
student chapter on the university 
campus. In addition, he said, the 
Centerfor Social Concerns has many 
programs that cooperate with the 
United Way. 
In order to make students more 
aware of these facts and others 
concerning the United Way, the St. 
Joseph chapter will sponsor a series 
of meetings in many of the campus 
halls in order to give students a bet­
ter understanding of the United 
Way's purposes and goals, and also to tell where the donated money
I II 
goes. 

==== In summing up the purpose ofthe United Way's second campaign, 
r ....·.;, 
li!!, Sponsored by: Off1ce of Campus Ministry 
Mangan said "this kind of second 
campaign doesn't ask you to give un­
til it hurts, but to give until it helps." 
;:·f:::~:::~:~:~:~:::::~:~:~:;:::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::~:::::::::::::::::~:~::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

Monday, December 5, 1983 -page 6 
Looking for things to write about 
l't·oplc ask wht·re I get my ideas from and isn't it hard to write three: columns a week? I always reply that ideas arc no problem and therdi~rt· it is a cinch to write three columns a week. I only wish I could write more. 
Today I want to write about my fantasy. In 
Richard Cohen The Cohen column 
my fantasy, I am sitting in the dentist's chair, my head back, my mouth full ofplumbing, the awful Muzak playing "Dann· Ballerina Dance" when in t·omes the <kntal hygienist, Tess of llyattsvilk-, and ~he says, "Now we an: going to teach you how to brush." I shoot ht·r dead. 
( lr maybe I'll write about Amtrahpeak. Thh is tht· railroad vt·rsion of airlint·spcak ("continuing on," "until the equipment comes to a compktt· stop") and just another version of Armyspeak in whkh rt·dundancics <~hound. Amtrak~pt·ak has given us "station­~top" a~ in, "The nt·xt station-stop will ht· 
Newark, N.j." Never mind that the proper 
verb is "is," how is a station-srop different 
from a mere station or stop' And while I am at 
it, I will ofl'er a reward to the next train 
operator who says that "Something is broken" 
rather than "We are expe~iencing a delay." 
I thought about raising my son as a Han: 
Krishna or something and then when he was 
about I 7 or 18 he would rebel and join a tradi­
tiona! religion and wear a suit. I would act hurt 
and angry and tell him he's killing his parents. 
The New York Times magazine showed a 
picture ofJohn Glenn autographing stacks of 
Tom Wolfe's book, The Right Stuff. I thought 
that was very interesting and wondered what it is that Wolfe himselfautographs? Could it be John Glenn? And when Gknn came back from space, was he humming "The Battk Hymn of the Republic" or "Solidarity forever?" In the movie, you can't tell. 
IfJesse jackson becomes President, will all hb announcements he rhymed? I am not a poetry fun, hut surely it is harmed every time Jack~on decides that if something rhymes, it must therefore he logical: "I knew just hy 
looking out the door/The time had come to 
go to war." From the outhouse to the state 
house to the White House, there is nothing so 
tiring as cheap device. 
Why is it you only see one shoe lying in the 
road? Where is the other shoe? 
Just recently, the government has searched 
for a unicorn in Virginia, placed decals of 
phony windows on abandoned houses in the 
Bronx, and shipped State Department secrets 
to the Lorton Reformatory. Look it up. 
I propose a law against the abuse of quota­tion marks. I do not understand what they arc doing around such pronouncements as "Home Cooking" or "The chef recommends" or, better yet, "Closed." Who in God's name is bdng quoted? Did someone say, "Home Cooking" and the person who ran the res­taurant thought it such a snappy phrase that he wrote it down and put it on his menu? I doubt it, hut then I am a very cynical person. 
My dentist says my gums arc in trouble again. It turns out that I have been spending some of my time writing, sleeping, eating, talking to friends and family and not brushing. 
l have not been doing "my homework." believe it. When I was a kid I never did my homework. Now it turns out that I am not doing my son's homework either. This is what he accuses me ofand since I am so racked with guilt, I believe him. Somehow I fear that I will flunk the sixth grade which is ridiculous. I have already flunked the sixth grade. 
I am sick and tired of sex surveys. I read them all and have concluded that the happiest couples are those who have sex frequently, sometimes or not at all. 
I finally have a video tape recordt·r. For tht.' first time in my life, 1 can have my cake and eat it, too. 1can watch one program and tape an­other or 1 can tape a program and go to a movie. In some ways I can be two places at once, although the truth is that 1usually wind up not watching the programs 1 have taped because 1do not have the time to watch them. This is why 1taped them in the first place. 
People sometimes ask if! have trouble com­ing up with column ideas and 1 say that ideas an· never any problem for me. It's just that some days 1 have to brush my teeth. 
-----------------------------------------------------------~-c)_I_9&_3_,Ti_n_e_uc_ashington Post Company _____ 
p • 0. BoxQ 
0 the times? 
Oear l:'ditor: 

In his lt-ttt-r to the editor (Nov. :\(I) Larry <lvt-rlan overlooks ~omt· very startling statis­tit·~ um<..Trning Notre Dame's Liht·rty Howl oppom·nt -tht.' (ioldt·n Eagles ofBoston Col­kge. 
Whik il is true that BC docs play Yale, the Bulldogs rt·prescnt tht· East-coast t:quivalcnt of football powt-rs like Army and Navy. And although tht·y did imll'l·d lose to a vastly im­proved Syracust· squad, Ovcrlan fails to men­tion how the Orangt·men have dcfeat~:d West Virginia and wt·re narrowly defeated by Pitts­burgh on a field goal with no time remaining. 
Tht· rt'Cord shows that Boston College is 9­2 and ranked I 3th in the nation. They have nmvincingly defeated su<:h powers as Clem­son, Alabama and Penn Statt·. It seems to me that Notrt· Dame has not sunk hut that HC has lowt·red itsdfto play the Irish. 
0 tempora! 0 mores! to you Larry. It is a privilege for us to play BC. I only hope we fare as well as Syracuse did. 
Bernard Pellegrino 
Kellogg response 
Dear Editor: 

In 1he Obseruer, November 22, Professor 
Frt·d Pike rt·acts to a statement publishhl, in 
1he Obsen•er, November IS, signed by mem­
bers of the Kellogg Institute, in which we 
crit;cize the invasion ofGrenada and point out 
some of the broader implications of that 
event. Professor Pike purports to refute a 
statement that seems to him another example 
of "blaming all (Latin Amt·rican) ills on the 
United States." 

Professor Pike appears to have misread the statement. The argument made there, by both North Americans and Latin Amerkans, is that the llnited States could much better promote 
the interests of the countries and peoples of 
our hcmishpere -the United States included 
-hy policies oriented to the peaceful resolu­
tion of conflicts, respect f()r international law 
and for domestic democratic processes, and 
by supporting the important democratic 
trends visible in Latin America. 
In the past, policies of this kind have been 
undertaken by some United States govern­
ments and have left a reservoir of good will 
and mutual understanding that is being squan­
dered hy the militaristic policies of the cur­
rent administration. 
The statement also emphasizes that acts such as the invasion ofGrenada inscribe them­selves in a deadly logic of violence which can only bring about extremely damaging results for everybody. An appeal to reason, peace and search for constructive understandings is what the statement is about. 
I know no signers of the document who would attribute all Latin American ills to the United States. As a matter offact, we consider that this is ONE of the prejudices and mispcr­ccptions that any person appreciative of the countries and cultures of our hemisphere should strive to eliminate. 
Guillermo O'Donnell 

Letters policy 
Editor's note: The appearance ofleUers to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. 1he;• must hear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author(initials andpseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Letters must be well-u•ritten ami typed. Material shorter than 250 u•ords will receive priority. All letters are subject to 
editing and become the proper~v of The Ob­server. 


Campus comments: What should the administration do about the food sales problem? 

St·t up a rq~ular inspt-ction commit­ItT ami at irregular tillll'S, inspt·ct li10d salt•s. Either givt· tht·m rcgis­ll'rl'll approval or a :\0 day gran· pt-riod for improvement. 
FrankLeyes Communications/ALPA Class of'84 

Sinl'l' tht· cafe is not much cleaner and no students have dit:d yet, I don't see much dill'crence. If they don't like it, have them send out. 
NancyCrovo Mechanical engineering Classof'85 

I think they should keep the service -I'm all for pestilence and disease. 
Jim Gleason M.B.A. 
The administration should maintain some mmimum quality-control regulations to keep the food edible. 
Mike Pesavento Undecided Classof'86 
Photos by Thorn Bradley 
The dorm food sales should he made 
to enforce health codes set up by the 
University. If standards aren't up­
held, then food sales should he replaced by the University food service. 
Sharon Athey Economics Classof'84 

The Observer 
I' U. No.1· {J. \ otreIhllllc'. 1.\ I(> 'i 'i(> (.!I 'J J .!3'J· 530.) 
/he ( >IJscn'<'l' i' I hi.' indqx·ndnll llt'\\ 'paper puhli,hnl In thl.' 'lll<knl' of lht· l ni~ 1tT"I\ of :\otn· l>.tmt· du Ltt· .111d '>ailll .\l.tn ·, <.olil'gt· II dot'' not nt't't'"aril\ rdkl'l the pohttt'' of the .ulmtnt,lration of l'llht'f in,lillltion. Tilt· Ill'\\' h reponed a' ac cura1d1 ami.I' ohjn·ttn·l\ a' P''"ihlt· I ll'•ignnl nliwriab rt'prt'-,t'llllht' opinon of a m.tjorlll ol!ht· hliwri.tllloard. (.ommt·nt.triD. kllt'f'. and !Ill' ln,idt· Column prl.''l'lll 1 ht· ,.it'\\' oil hl'ir author~. ( :otumn spact' i' a1 ailahlt· to all lllt'mhcr-, ofrht· communit'. .md I ht· frt'l.' t"\ prt·,,ion of\'an ing opinion' on LllllJ'll' rhrough lt'ttt'r,. h t·ncouragnl. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief........................... .. David Dziedzic Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Neu•s Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide Neu•s Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower 
Department Managers 
Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen Controller ................. ...........................Alex Szilvas Advertising Manager .........................jeanie Poole Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams 
Founded November 3,1966 
Showcase 
Monday, December 5, 1983 -page 7 
Packed like sardines 
by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
I 
can still remember, packed together like a can ofsardines . .. 2:00p.m. "You know, Vince, there's a lot ofpeople here already." "Yeah, 1 kinda noticed that. Can you imagine how many people there will be by the time it's 2:30?" 2:30p.m. "Man, there must be about a thousand people here." "You ain't kidding." "Is there supposed to be a line or something?" 
Say a word out ofline andyou'll find thefriends you bad are gone forever. 
"Vince? Hey, Vince, where'd you go? Dave, have you seen Vince? He 
was here just a ...Dave? Dave, where arc you?" 
"Well, hello there, nice to meet you, get your hand away from my der· 
ricrc." 
"Oh, I'm sorry. I was looking for my friends and I didn't notice. There's 
so many people in here." 
"You're not kidding, bub. Say, do you know what's going on here?" 
"No, I don't know what's going on." 
"Well, I brought 12 !D's. How about you?" 
"Nine. But I think you can only get one ticket per !D. Or maybe not. 
There wasn't anything about it in The Observer." 
2:40p.m. 
"Hey, Vince, what's going on?" 
"I don't know. Wait, here comes somebody." 
"Okay. everybody, this is going to be the official ID collection table!" 
"You hear that, Vince? Right in front ofus!" 
"Hey, come on! Wait your turn! Get offa me!" 
"Wait a minute, everyone! This isn'tgonna work! We're gonna move 
over here ..." 
"Hey, Vince, whcrc's he going?" 
"I don't know." 
"Wait! They're over in that room next to Irish Gardens." 
Even though 1have absolutely no idea at all what is being said 
despite the dialogue ... 2:55p.m. "What are they doing now?" "They're collecting I D's and putting them in a trash can." "No. seriously." "I am serious." "Wait! They're saying something again!" "Hrbe rpsn einvoeb uwioof opepbyv ..." "What did he say?" "I don't know -oops, sorry. I didn't mean to step on your foot." 
Well, the restlessness was banded down, and it's getting very bard to stay. 
"I can't take this anymore. You know how long it's gonna take us to get 
all the way up there just to give them our ID's? I'm leaving." 
"Hey, everyone's passing up their !D's, Vince! Here, gimme yours!" 
"Why didn't they have this up in Chautauqua? Or at the Pit? Why do 
they always screw this up?" 
"Ksiyo opeo wpbf rpuhp epuewoy mdbnpr iup ibrzmxco ..." 
"Hey, everybody's walking the other way! I thinkwe're going outside!" 
"Great. First they suffocate us "'nd now they're gonna freeze us." 
"You know what I can't figure out? Why didn't they have this in Wash­
ington Hall?" 
"No, that would make too much sense." 
"Well, come on. Everybody's going out front." 
3:30p.m. 
"Okay, everybody, back off the stairs! We're gonna call out names, and 
when you come up, write your name, your ID number, where you want 
to sit, and how many tickets you want on the back ofyour envelope. Then 
go downstairs to the table and the girls will sell you your tickets." 
"You know how long this is gonna take, Vince? This is crazy. Will you 
stop shivering like that?" 
And it seems such a waste oftime, ifthat's what it's all about . .. 
4:00p.m. 
"How many names do you think they've called so far?" 
"Oh, maybe about a hundred." 
"And we've got nine I D's in there, and we haven't had one called yet?" 
They say there's a heavenfor those who await. Some say it's betterbut 
I say it ain't . .. "Hey, where are you going?" . "I don't feel like waiting around anymore. It may be worth tt to you but not to me. I'm freezing." "Wait, Vince, they just called your name!" "Cool! Let's go get our tickets." 4:30p.m. "You know, I forgot there'd probably be a line down here, too." "Why didn't they have this in Washington Hall?" "I don't know." "All this just to see a guy play a piano and sing." "And he probably won't even play this long." 5:00p.m. "Hey, Vince, wake up. I got our tickets." "Oh ...yeah. Wherc's Dave and Steve?" "I don't know. Come on, let's go to dinner." "Why do they always screw this up? Why didn't they have this in Wash­ington Hall? Why don't they plan these things? Why don't they get a clue? Why? Why? ..." "That's life, I guess, huh?" 
Allyour life you bad to stand in line. Still, you're standing on your feet. Allyourchoices madeyou changeyour mind. Nowyourcalendar's complete. Don't waitfor answers.just takeyour chances. Don't ask me 
why ... 
"Fiddler on the Roof," though it 
is a story ofsome villagers in 
Russia a long time ago, has become 
almost an American classic. One of 
its songs, "Sunrise, Sunset," is 
probably heard at more weddings 
than Mendelssohn and Lohcngrin 
combined. This story ofa poor 
Jewish milkman with five daughters 
for which to find husbands, thinks 
himselfpersonally hounded by the 
Almighty, and has some themes that 
speak to people everywhere. The 
conflict between young love and 
parental authority is as old and as 
new as humanity; the suffering ofa 
despised and exiled race is almost as 
old. 
The Notre Dame Student Players last week undertook the ambitious task ofpresenting this well-known musical. They performed it in O'Laughlin Auditiorium on Dec. 1, 2 and 3. Based on Sholem Aleichem stories, with music and lyrics by Bockand Harnick, the play had a cast of more than forty. 
Any production of"Fiddler on the Roof' must stand or fall on the per­formance of the actor who plays Tevye, the milkman. The Student Players were lucky to have a strap­ping Tevya, graceful in his move­ments, confident in his timing. James Gallagher got the show offto a rousing start with his rendition of "Tradition." He continued to dominate the stage both by his size and by his assurance, unifying the 

Perchik (David Kaiser) talks of Kiev and marriage to Hodel (Ann Harvey). 
Theatre review 
Upholding the 'tradition ' with style and finesse 
from the home I love." 
by Elizabeth Christman 
The play was skillfully directed by features staff writer Joseph Dolan. It was produced by 
Dolan and PaulS. Clay. Clay also stories ofthree daughters and their 
designed the stark set, which con­unsuitable suitors. 

sisted ofstone-gray steps, ramps, and Gallagher captured remarkably platforms. Tall brown posts with well the ironic relationship ofTevye variously angled cross-bars sug­
with his God, whom he frequently gested the rooftops and gables ofa rebukes for his endless bad luck. 
village, but also hinted somberly of "Am I bothering you?" Tcvye asks gibbets. Plain benches, a table, and a God, wryly apologizing for speaking hearth represented the cottage of 

Golde (Denise Blank) scolds her husband Tevye (James Gallagher). 
ofa lame horse when God is busy 
with wars and plagues. 
In the duct "Do You Love Me?" Gallagher and Denise Blank, who played Tevye's wife Golde, evoked a picture, both humorous and tender, ofinarticulate wedded love. This duet was one of the show's best mo­ments. 
Other actors also acquitted them­selves creditably. Mary Beth Heslin was comic and shrill as Yente, the matchmaker;John Schmitt per­formed the aggrieved butcher, Lazar Wolf, with notable spirit; and the three pairs ofyoung lovers played out their stories touchingly. Bill Boraczek as Motel the tailor gave a particularly appealing rendition of "It's a Miracle;" and Ann Harvey as Hodel sang hauntingly ofgoing "far Tevye and his family. The set was open and flexible, making smooth scene changes, and contributing to the brisk pace ofthe show. 
Excellent ensemble work also en­hanced the pace. The original choreography reproduced by Kara 
'Amis was admirably professional. The vocal choruses were strong and satisfying, backed with appropriate deference by the orchestra_ The words ofthe songs could actually be heard -which is not always so in choral singing. 
In sum the Notre Dame Student Players gave the campus an excel­lent performance ofa beloved musi­cal, warming the December chill of frost and finals. 

r 
The Observer Monday, December 5, 1983 -page 8 
• • • Men

Box Scores 
Saturday's Results UCLA 51, Notre Dame 47 UCLA(51) 

M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
M1guel  34  4-8  0-0  6  2  8  
Fields  33  9-17  0-1  6  3  1B  
Gray  33  3-7  3-4  12  3  9  
Jackson  40  1-5  0-0  3  3  2  
Hatcher  22  1-3  0-0  2  2  2  
Immel  18  1-3  0-0  1  1  2  
Miller  5  1-3  0-1  2  0  2  
Wrtght  7  2-2  0-0  3  2  4  
Maloncon  B  2-2  0-0  2  0  4  
200 24-50  3-6  37  16  51  
FG  Pet.  .480.  FT  Pet.  ·  .500.  Team  
Jones 33 6-13 3-3 9 3 15 


rebounds -2. Turnovers -18. Assists -12 (Jackson. 9). Technicals-None. Notre Dame (47) M FG-A FT-A R F 
p 

Sluby 37 6-15 1·5 6 1 13 Dolan 34 4-9 3-6 12 3 11 Rucker 11 1-5 0-0 1 0 2 Htcks 20 0-5 0-0 4 0 0 Buchanan 13 0-0 0-0 1 4 0 Royal 5 0-1 0-1 0 0 0 Duff 21 2-4 0-0 2 0 4 Bowen 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Pnce 29 3-8 1-2 1 3 7 Kempton 23 4-11 2-2 4 4 10 Barlow 4 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 
200 20-59 7-16 31 15 47 

FG Pet. .339. FT Pet. 438. Team rebounds -4 Turnovers -11 Ass1sts -12 (Siuby and Duff. 4). Technicals-None. 
Halfttme -UCLA 32. Notre Dame 21. Offi· cials Rich Weiler, Ed Hightower, Ed Maracich (All B1g Ten). A-11,345 (cap.) 
Saturday's Results 

continuedfrom page 12
Notre Dame women 70, UCLA women 61 UCLA women (61) 
day and his jumper 20 seconds later
p VanHelvoort 36 2-5 4-4 1 3 B M FG-A FT-A R F 
gave the Bruins their largest lead of 
the day at 38-23. Jackson, whose 
Keur 26 4-7 0-1 1 5 B 
layup with three seconds left kayoed
Dean 38 5-11 5-6 3 2 15 
the Irish 65-64 last year in South
McCoy 29 5-12 1-1 7 4 11 Hardy 19 2-5 0-0 2 5. 4 
Bend, was held to only 1-5 shooting 
B1ggs 17 0-1 0-0 0 1 0 
Saturday but his assists were the key 
Thurston 2 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 
to many UCLA points.
200 24-55 13-15 23 23 61 

Fields went out of the game brief­
FG Pet. .436. FT Pet. -.867. Team rebounds -7. Turnovers -1B. Assists -9 
ly but returned with eight minutes 
(Jones 4). Technicals ·None. 
left and the Bruins holding a commanding 44-3I lead. UCLA also 
Notre Dame women (70) 

deviated from their man-to-man
p
M FG-A FT-A R F 

defense at that time.
Keys 15 1-4 2-3 2 4 4 
Kaiser 33 5-7 2-2 4 1 12 
"We went into the zone defense 
Schueth 34 4-12 9-10 9 3 17 
to protect Kenny (Fields)," said Far­
Ebben 30 4-12 2-2 2 2 10 
mer. "The zone is something we
Thompson 35 3-B 0-2 5 1 6 Wtllis 16 0-0 1-3 2 4 1 
work on every day in practice. We 
Bates 22 7-10 4-4 6 1 18 
thought it would be good to throw 
Basford 15 1-1 0-2 1 0 2 
their offense off balance and cause 
200 25-54 20-28 31 16 70 

them to take some time offthe clock. We probably stayed with it two trips down court too Ion&, though, as 
FG Pet. -.463. FT Pet. .714. Team 
Notre Dame started to get into the 
rebounds -3. Turnovers -17. Assists -19 
groove."
(Kaiser 7). Technicals-None. Halftime -UCLA 36, Notre Dame 34. Offi-
Get into the groove, the Irish did 
cials-Marcy Weston, Tom Slade. A-204. 
indeed. Notre Dame rattled off II straight points to close a 46-3I mar­
gin to 46-42. Tim Kempton's layup off a Sluby pass started the spurt which also saw Price, Dolan, and Dan Duff hit jumpers and Dolan a free throw, before Kempton tapped in a Duff miss to bring the gap to four 
Nebraska's Rozier 
and the crowd to euphoria. UCLA broke the Irish press to 
wins Reisman Trophy 
A.'iSOclated Press 
NEW YORK (AP)-Mike Rozier was worried about graduating from high school. Now he's worried about winning the national col­kgiate football championship. Along the way, he won a Heisman Trophy. 
Rozier, the Nebraska running back who became only the second collegiate player to rush for more than 2,000 yards in a season in 1983, carried all six Heisman Trophy regions in winning the award Satur­day night. 
"I never thought I'd come this far," Rozier said at a news con­ference after the announcement. "I was happy just to graduate from high school and then go to Coffeyville Uunior College in Kansas). I wasn't a very good student, but I had tutors and people to help me out." 
After spending his freshman year 
at the Kansas junior college to im­
prove his grades, Rozier enrolled at 
Nebraska, where he rushed for 
, 4,780 yards in three years. This past season, Rozier rushed for 2, I48 yards, helping the undefeated Cornhuskers to a No. 1 national ranking and an Orange Bowl berth Jan. 2 against Miami, Fla. 
Only Marcus Allen of Southern Cal rushed for more yards in a season, 2,342, in I981. 
"Everybody says we're the best in the country, the best of all time," Rozier said. "Everybody's got it in their minds to win the national championship, and that's what we're going to do." 
In winning the award, Rozier 
carried  all  six  of  the  Heisman  
Memorial  Trophy  Committee  
regions.  He  polled  1,80 I  points,  

including 482 first-place votes, in balloting by 1,050 sports writers emp:melled by the Downtown Ath­letic Club of New York, which has presented the award annually since 1935. 
Steve Young, the Brigham Young quarterback who led the nation in passing this season was second· 
send 7-0 Stuart Gray in free for a layup. Gray, however, never made it too the basket as Dolan fouled him hard going up. Gray fell to the court and came up swinging. The UCLA bench cleared but trouble was averted with the help of the inter­vention of Phelps. 
"I felt the foul was necessary," said Gray afterward, "but I thought it was too rough. 
Gray, who chipped in 9 points and I2 rebounds on the day, sank the first of two free throws to bring the UCLA lead up to 47-42. The dif­ference in Gray's play between this year and last year was greatly noticeable. Gray attributes his im­provement to the loss 35-pounds during the offseason. 
Price drove the right baseline to bring the Irish back to 47-44. Nigel Miguel fouled Sluby with only I :03 left on the clock and the Irish cap­tain stepped to the line for two shots. 
Sluby, shooting only 47-percent from the line on the year, missed both shots. He was fouled again by Miguel just 23 seconds later and stepped up to the line with a chance to redeem himself by making both this time. Sluby missed the first but made the second to Notre Dame to within 47-45. 
Gray bro.. e free for another chance at a layup. This time he was fouled by Kempton as he went in and stepped to the line for two shots. Gray made both to stretch the lead to 49-45. 
"I knew I was going to make them," Gray said. "The crowd didn't bother me at all.' 
Then, but who should ice the game for the Bruins with a jumper? 
Kenny Fields. 
"We had the right personnel in at the end," says Phelps. "It still comes back to scoring with inside shots and hitting those foul shots. We have to value our possessions and we have to make our foul shots in pressure situations. You just can't beat a good team like UCLA making those mistakes and what we need to do right now is beat a good team like UCLA." 
"Take nothing away from UCLA, but I think we controlled the game defensively," says Phelps. "Our press changed their whole offense." 
"We self-destruct at times," com­ments Farmer. "1 was very disap­pointed with how we handled the press. It appeared that no one vut there wanted to handle the ball. We were lucky a couple of times to get the long breakaways. We're very for­tunate to get out of here with a vic­tory." 
Dolan played his usual strong game for the Irish also, contributing II points and pulling down I 2 rebounds. Put on the spot by the foul trouble of fellow point guard Jojo Buchanan, junior Dan Duff came in to do a good job of directing the Irish offense down the stretch and surprised the crowd by putting up four shots, ofwhich he made two. 
After the game, Phelps predicted that UCLA could be a Final Four team this year and that Fields had the potential to be the second pick in the first round of the NBA draft. 
"I think we're a step ahead of last year," said Fields, who was a step ahead ofeveryone else on Saturday. 
"We knew that the game would be won or lost at the free throw line," reflected Farmer. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, UCLA managed to hit their free throws when they counted and the Irish could not do so. The game was a combination of UCLA winning it and the Irish losing it. 
• • • Women 
continuedfrom page 12 
Seeing that things were slipping away, DiStanislao called a timeout. 
"For the first minute, things started slipping away," said Schueth. "But we had a timeout and the coach told us to look how hard we had worked to get ahead and she said that we owe it to Carrie to win the game." __ 
The Irish then proceeded to score I5 of the last 23 points of the game, mostly from the foul line. Down the stretch, the Irish sunk II of I 5 from the line. 
"It was just a question of the players doing what they were told," said DiStanislao. "They were able to execute very well." 
For much ofthe first half, it looked as if Notre Dame was going to ha'::_e another tough time with UCLA, a team which crushed the Irish twice last year. Notre Dame started hesitantly, missing some easy shots and getting whistled for a number of traveling violations. The Bruins took advantage of these mistakes as they moved from a I4-I3 deficit to a 23­I4 lead. Two minutes later, the lead was still nine at 29-20, but the Irish finally started rolling and never stopped. 
"There's always a little tendency to be somewhat sloppy early in a game," said Schueth, "but once you get into the flow, you cut down on the mistakes." 
"We've gone down I0-0 to good teams too many times," explained DiStanislao about the slow start. "The girls knew they were in a game with a good team, and they were a little intimidated at first." 
After Saturday's win, opposing coaches might begin saying the same thing about the Notre Dame basketball team. 
Classifieds 
LOST: NAVY BLUE LIGHTWEIGHT 
For Sale: Accumulated criminal, civil, and To E. Conway, "Sometimes we just don't D1d you hear that Mrs. Bear Bryant IS 
PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET. TO THE corporate law books. Valued at $2,000. see the same way There is no love that is moving to South Bend? After Bear died. 
BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND Will take best offer. Contact Leon at 233-perfect every day It doesn't matter who is she wanted to get as tar away from biQ·
NOTICES WANTED
LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE HAD 
5705. wrong or who IS right time college football as she could. 
FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT8810.
TYPING 277·8534 after 5:30 RIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK, FOR SALE: '74 yellow beetle, great mec· Guitar Player wants to join or form band. 
Two South Bend physicians invite 2·3SYRACUSE OR THE VICINITY AFTER hanically, some rust. $600, 277·1454 Ca11Jeff8232

LOST·DID ANYONE PICK UP A tore1gn gred students to share Christmas 
FINALS CALL CHRIS AT 234· 7279 between 1 Opm & 1 2.
PURPLE DOWN COAT AT CORBY'S afternoon wrth their families. One of the
ANYTIME. ................................................................ Give that someone special a Xmas gift
THURSDAY, NOV. 17TH? IF YOU men is European, the other has lived 1n
WSND AM needs good salespeople! they'll never forget. Order a "Holiday Come to meet1ng Monday Dec 5 at 7:00 Riders needed to ATLANTA or anywhere Tuck In" available thru Regina Hall at
KNOW ANYTHING, PLEASE CALL India. Any Interested grad students -­
pm in WSND studiO or call Kev1n at 277· CYNTHIA AT BOt 7. along 1-75 or 1-1 6 & 1-95 tn Georgia. TICKETS SMC. Christmas Bazzar especially Latin American, European and 6250 Leaving after finals. Call Alan at 1402. 
Indian students--who WISh to expenence LOST: 1 blue NO book bag at St. Mary's­......................... an .. American" Christmas please call
Tom Sluby is a man-god I GERRY FAUST IS NOT A MAJOR COL­AM DRMNG TO JAX. FLA FOR XMAS, 
Saga ~found, call Mark 1186. DESPARATELY NEED TWO LIBERTY Lynn at the Center for Social Concerns at 
BOWL TIKS CALL 272-3491 239-7862. LOST: 1 brown leather shoulder bag in 
LEGE FOOTBALL COACH. VIA 1-65, 1-75. CAN TAKE 2,3. LEAVE STEVE SPRIGG:Gerry Faust and YOU 
12122, RETURN 1/14. CALL 4739. make a winning couple !II front of Holy Cross SMC. on Sunday Nov. I need 6 GA's (together) to the DePaul Are the Gaped Crusader and the Boy 
27, my checkbook is in it. It found please game. Pay$$$! Call Beth 284-4030 Wonder actually homosexuals? Is that
DEAR MR D.J. SCANLAN. JR SO... WANTED: Defensive backs tor game PLEASE send the holy roller back to 
call Teresa at 284-4353 why they w1mped out? I 
YOU ARE A BUSINESS MAJOR WELL Dec. 29. No experience necessary. Apply Moeller. BFDIII WE ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
football office, ACC. LOST: A gold 111gnat ring with tt. InI­Send friends posters tor X-mas! On sale
ARE TIRED OF ABUSE FROM NON· MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GODIII 
IIIII• BSA. BelwMn Dillon •nd Alumni now.
PERSONALS
Wanted: Dependable female to share MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GODIII REAL·MAJORS LIKE YOURSELF IF on Frldrt Nov. 1I. II found call Beth
YOU CAN'T HACK A REAL CORE CUR· living expenses in furnished house 15 MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GOD!II 
D1ntng halls at dinner. Dec. 5-Dec. 9.

RICULUM THAT IS YOUR OWN BUS!· 2~................... . minutes from campus. $150.00 per month MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GODIII 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR LDst In engineering computer room. Call Don't miss out on the Fine Arts Poster
NESS, BUT GET OFFF OUR BACK. HEY GLASSES LOST: On Monday. Novem· includes utilities. Non~smoker preferred. MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GOD!II 
FELLOW ENGINEERS, IF YOU FEE;L ber 29, I lost a patr of prescription glasses Call 239·5930 or 291 ·9644. Ask for satisned?
David at 277-1326. No questions asked. Sale!
LIKE I DO CALL UP D.J AT 3549 erther 1n the business building, North Brenda. 
Reward offered. 

AROUND 2 a.m. SIGNED 'THE D1ning Hall. or on the path in between SARA, ZIP IS HERE, ZIP WANTS THROATS" They are women's glasses with black Need one rider to east PA, Allen­YOUIll 
NEED TO GO X-MAS SHOPPING?-A WANT TO TRY SOMETHING NEW? See BUS TO CHICAGO ON DEC. I 2 WILL BE
tinted frames and gold Sidepieces. It town/Reeding area tor Xmas. Leaving 
coupons 1n the yellow pages of your LEAVING AT 8:15 RETURNING AT 6
you've found them. please contact Wed 21. Call Dean 8651. Boston Club Christmas Bus m•ndstory Leanne Mtehelle at NO. 7009, or come by meeting concerning bus cost due to
Campus Telephone Directory! P.M. BUY TIX AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES FOR $9.00.
304 Lew1s Hall. Thank you so much Ill! NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR X-MAS Greyhound Bus cost due to Greyhound
MARTY, YOU'RE SUCH A WEtNERII! I
BREAK, WILL SHARE USUAL CALL strike. Meeting TONIGHT, TONIGHT.
MEAN WIENER... NO. I MEAN Did you dance to Par 3 at the SMC Cof­
LOST 11/30/83 BROWN LEATHER MARK8906 TONIGHT. LaFortune, 7 p.m. All in­
WEINER ... YOU DON'T DESERVE THE feehouse with a girl in a red sweater?
ILOST/FOUND I 
BIFOLD. DURING THE MORNING terested must attend. 
CORRECT SPELLING She'd like to know who you are I 
HOURS AT THE ROCKNE. PLEASE 
KEEP THE MONEY BUT RETURN THE Zeke-A gang of 6-toot-4 Caribbean
I GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT!! BUY A 
I LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR WALLET. CALL 1641 EDDY LLANO 321 gentlemen came by. They wanted to have 
DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE It's always the same.
GRACE. FOR SALE a chat . .something about Invading their 
I I lost my HewleU· Packard calculator 1n the YELLOW SUBMARINE. WE STILL ritory. They weren't talking about It's just a shame. I Englneertng Computer Room on Wed· LOST: NAVY BLUE NYLON MEN'S DELIVER 9-1 2pm CALL 272-4453. Grenada. By the way, when did you get That's all I nesday, Nov. 9. H has btg inrt1als ot OS in JACKET, SIZE LARGE, SAYS LIBERTY BOWL T-SHIRTS FOR SALE. your eyes checked, anyway? 
I the right corner ntound, call David at277· "MOUNTAIN" ON IT. REWARD. CALL GREAT SOUVENIR AND CHRISTMAS Signed,
Happy Birthday Greg-Combien de jours Genelila I 1328. Reward offered. No questoons. 8854. PRESENT. CALL DON 1463 JUsqu'a Calcutta? Jerome's roomyI 
I I I 
~ 
l ____ 
The Observer Monday, December 5, 1983 -page 9 

The 1983 United Way campain has a goal of $2,850,000. The campaign was scheduled to end Novem· ber 16. It's December now and the United Way is still in need of over $250,000 to reach the community goal and continue to sustain the vitally needed services of the agencies. Without the funds some services may 
not survive. 
Here at Notre Dame we interact with the United Way regularly. Many of us are in· volved with the United Way's Logan Center and through the Center for Social Concerns with other United Way agencies like the Red Cross, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, the Girl Scouts, as well as the Council for the Retarded and 
College basketball roundup 
No.7 North Carolina State upset 
Associated Press 
It was a memorable night for both Ray Meyer and Dean Smith, but per· haps even more memorable for Dell Curry. · 
While Meyer gained his 700th coaching victory in DePaul's 69-66 triumph over Illinois State and Smith won No. 500 in North Carolina's 88­75 decision over Stanford, Curry got some sweet redemption for himself and Virginia Tech Saturday night. 
"We felt we had a lot to prove af­ter losing in the way we did last night," said Curry after leading the Gobblers to an 89-65 upset over seventh-ranked North Carolina State. "This was a great win because North Carolina State is the defend­ing national champion." 
The night before, Virginia Tech had squandered a 13-point lead against Wake Forest, another Atlan­tic Coast Conference team, and wound up losing 88-80 in overtime. Against North Carolina State, the Gobblers took a I0-point halftime lead and managed to hold onto it. 
The victory was a redemption as well for Perry Young, who had missed four straight free throws that allowed Wake Forest to rally and force Friday night's extra period. 
"I was really down because I felt I kinda lost the game for us last night," said Young, who scored 22 points Saturday night. "But the coaches and the players helped get me ready for tonight." 
In other games Saturday involving the nation's ranked teams, No. 1 Kentucky topped Indiana 59-54; No. 3 Georgetown walloped St. Francis, Pa., 84-61; No. 4 Memphis State defeated the University of Detroit 90-65; fifth-ranked Iowa trimmed No. 10 Oregon State 56-45; No. 6 Maryland swept by Canisius 77-55; No. 8 Houston stopped Biscayne 69­51 and No. 9 UCLA edged Notre Dame 51-47. 
Also, 11th-ranked Michigan State crushed Illinois-Chicago 99-82; 12th-ranked Louisiana State beat Texas A&M 75-65; 15th-ranked Bos­ton College turned back New Hampshire 97-64; 18th-ranked Wic­hita State routed Hawaii 89-68; 19th­ranked St. John's crushed Columbia 78-58 and No. 20 Virginia Common­wealth downed East Carolina 75-44. 
Although the Wolfpack enjoyed a slight height advantage, they suf­fered from poorshooting, hitting on­ly 39.7 percent of their shots from the floor. Virginia Tech attacked the inside successfully, shooting 52.9 
Multiple
Choice 
Don't leave your dinner to guesswork.
D 
3oz. (serving) 
Protein 12g 

percent. The Wollj>ack, 5·1, suffered 
25 turnovers in losing their first 
game in 16 dating back to last 
season. 
Meanwhile, Dallas Comegys 
scored 21 points to pace DePaul's 
victory for Meyer. The 69-year-old 
Meyer, in .his 42nd and final year as 
DePaul coach, became only the fifth 
major college coach an1 the first in 
20 years to reach the 700-victory 
plateau. 
Meyer joins the 700 Club com­
prised of Kentucky's Adolph Rupp, 
with 875 wins, Kansas' Phog Allen, 
with 771, Oklahoma State's Henry 
Iba, 767, and Western Kentucky's Ed 
Diddle, 759. Rupp and Iba were the 
last to make it, both in the 1963-64 
season. 
Sam Perkins scored 1 7 points and 
North Carolina survived a second­
half scare to give Smith No. 500 in 
the championship game of the Stan­
ford Invitational basketball tourna­
ment. The Tar Heels won despite 
foul trouble to All-America guard 
Michael Jordan, who played only 
seven and a half minutes. 
Smith, who saw a 16-point 
halftime lead dwindle to six, or­
dered his squad to go into his 
patented four-corner stall to kill the 
clock to clinch the victory. 
James Blackmon hit three free 
throws and grabbed a crucial 
rebound in the last 41 seconds as 
Kentucky beat Indiana. Blackmon, a 
freshman guard, led Kentucky with 
14 points. But his final free throws 
proved most important because 
three of his teammates fired blanks 
from the foul line as the Hoosiers 
battled back in the closing minutes. 
Patrick Ewing scored 24 points 
and grabbed 14 rebounds, leading 
Georgetown over St. Francis. Ewing, 
dominating play at,both ends of the 
court, scored eight points, blocked 
three shots and was credited with a 
steal in the first nine minutes as the 
Hoyas raced to a 20-8 lead they 
never relinquished. 
Defensively, Ewing forced the 
Terriers to either rush their shots or 
shoot from outside their normal 
range. The St. Francis frontcourt of 
Jeff Hamilton, Joe Sharley and Jim 
Conway, who came into the contest 
held to just one field goal in the first 
half. 
Keith Lee scored 22 points and grabbed 14 rebounds to lead Memphis State over the University of Detroit. The Tigers' tight zone defense forced the Titans into early turnovers as Memphis State ran up a 34-16 lead and won going away. 
Greg Stokes scored 16 points and fueled an early second-half burst that carried Iowa over Oregon State in the championship game of the Amana-Hawkeye Classic. The Beavers, playing without three players who were suspended for six 
games for selling complimentary 
tickets, went nearly five minutes 
without scoring at the start of the 
second half and Iowa capitalized to 
pull away. 
Jef Adkins scored four of his 14 
points during a game-breaking 13-2 
streak at the start of the second half, 
triggering Maryland past Canisius. 
Akeem Olajuwon blocked a school­
record 16 shots and scored 1 0 points as Houston rolled past Bis­cayne. 
Sam Vincent scored 25 points to lead Michigan State over foul-prone Illinois-Chicago. The Spartans con­nected on 28 of 35 first-half free throws as the Flames committed 23 fouls in the first 20 minutes. 
Ben Tower scored three straight 
baskets to give the Spartans a 21-11 
lead midway through the first half. 
Michigan State's backcourt tandem 
of Vincent and sophomore guard 
Scott Skiles then combined for 1 7 
points as the Spartans grabbed a 52­
35 halftime lead. 
Derrick Taylor scored 19 points 
as Louisiana State whipped Texas 
A&M. 

YOU CAN MAKE A MIRACLE HAPPEN... THE UNITED WAY 

United Way of St. Joseph County 
c/o Hall President (students) c/o Personnel Offlce(faculty, staff) 
name 

--------------------~~~~~---3HT 
campus address 
$ ________________
United Way 
amou~t

Please respond by Tuesday December 13 
more. Many individuals and companies in our community 
have given generously· but many people are out of work and many businesses are not doing well. Students, faculty 
and staffat Notre Dame have reached the goal set out for 

the University. This ac· complishment is great! But those in need still need more help · as a member of the Notre Dame community can you find it in your heart to give $1, $5, $10 or $25 more to help those in need? Even if you've given, can you give a lit· tie more help in this 2nd effort? If you haven't given yet please don't wait any longer. Every dollar is vital to those in our community who are in need. 



Fat tOg 
Domino's Pizza is the best Coke available choice. Just 2 slices are 16 oz. bottles more nutritious, lower in 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.
fat and higher in protein 
Umited delivery area. than either a taco or ©1983 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
cheeseburger. 
Nutritional information from: Table 1. 
Nutritional Analyses of Fast Foods, United States Agriculture Research 
So give us a call and put 
us to the test. Service. 
r·····-----------------, 
Mondays only. Only $6.99 for a 16"
$6.99 

1·item pizza plus 2 16 oz. bottles of Coke. One coupon per pizza Expires: 12-31-83 
Fast, Free Delivery~ 1835 South Bend Ave. Pla:ta 23 Center Phone: 277·2151 
35167 I 2650 
~--------·-------------~ 
Monday, December 5, 1983-page 10 
The Observer 
NFL roundup 
Dolphins clinch playoff spot 
Associated Press 
The Miami Dolphins, with quar­

terback Dan Marino suffering a knee 
injury on the winning touchdown 
drive, clinched the American Con­
ference East championship and a 
playoff berth with a pressure-packed 
24-17 National Football League vic­
tory over the Houston Oilers yester­
day. 
In winning their I 1 th AFC cast 

title, the Dolphins became the 
fourth tt:am to sew up a playoffberth 
this season, joining the Los Angeles 
Raiders, Washingwn Redskins and 
Dallas Cowboys. But the victory 
might he a costly one for the Dol­
phins, who lost Marino, their sensa­
tional rookie quarterback, ncar the end of the game. 
Mt·anwhilc, other teams con­
tinued to scramble for the remaining 
six playoff berths. 
The Buffalo Bills helped their 
chances for a wild-card berth in the 
AFC with a 14-9 decision over 
Kansas City and Green Bay further 
tightened the National Conference 
Central race with a 31-28 decision 
over Chicago. The other two leaders 
in the NFC central. Minnesota and 
Detroit, meet tonight. 
The Philadelphia Eagles stalled the Los Angeles Rams' playoff hid with a 13-9 upset and the San Fran­cisco 49ers climbed hack into a first­place tic with the Rams in the NFC wt·st by heating Tampa Bay 3S-21. 
The AFC central race stayed tight as the front-running Pittsburgh· and runnt:rup Cleveland both lost yes­terday, the Steelers losing 23-10 to Cincinnati and the Browns dropping a 27-6 decision to Denver. The Steclers lead the Browns by one game with a 9-S record to Cleveland's 8-6. 
In other action. Washington ham­
mered the Atlanta Falcons 3 7-21, the 
New England Patriots stopped the 
New Orleans Saints 7-0; the St. Louis 
Cardinals trimmed the New York 
Giants I 0-6, the Dallas Cowboys 
whipped the Seattle Seahawks 3'5-1 0 
and tht· New York Jets downed the 
Baltimore Colts 10-6. 
The day's results brought to five the number of teams eliminated from the playoffs -Baltimore, At· lama, Cincinnati, Kansas City and San Diego. 
Tony Nathan ran <; yards for the wining touchdown with 3:S I left to rally Miami from a 17-7 third­quartt·r deficit. Tht· Dolphins, I 0-4, drove 82 yards for the game­winning touchdown in an error­filkd drive that included three Miami fumbles. Marino left the game with a knee injury on the play before Nathan's toul·hdown run. 
"It was getting to he more and more a situation in which we had to control our own destiny," Nathan said of tht· final Dolphin drive. "Our hacks were against the wall hut we took control ofour destiny." 
Miami Coach Don Shula said his team had to overcome a lack ofemo­tion in the fir..t half, when the Oilers led 14-7. 
"We talk all week about emotion and then we get out there and get knocked around," Shula said. "The Oilers have nothing to lose and they go all out. Everything seemed to happt·n on our side of the line in the first half." 
Mike Kennedy returned an inter­ception of a Bill Kenney pass 22 yards for a fourth-period touchdown ami Joe Cribbs rushed for a career­high 18<; yards to lift Buffalo over Kansas City. With quarterback Joe Faguson completing only six of I'5 passt·s for 76 yards. Cribbs provided most of the Buffalo offense with a career-high 36 rushes as the Bills, second in the AFC east, improved their record to 8-6. 
Jan Stenerud kicked a 19-yard field goal with three seconds left to lift Grt•en Bay over Chicago. The vic­tory gave the Packers a 7-7 record. one game behind Detroit ami Min­nesota, tied at 7-6. 
Quarterback Ron Jaworski's 29­yard touchdown pass to Tony Woodruff with 21 seconds left rallied Philadelphia over the Rams and snapped the Eagles' seven-game losing streak. Los Angeles' Eric Dick­erson tied a rookie record with his ninth I00-yard plus game. 
Wendell Tyler ran for 102 yards o1nd rookie fullback Roger Craig powered his way to three touch­downs, giving San Francisco quarter­hack Joe Montana welcome support ;L~ the 49ers returned to first place by beating Tampa Bay. With two weeks remaining in the regular season, the 49ers and Rams share the lead in the NFC west race with 8-6 records. 
Cincinnati turned a pair of first­quarter Pittsburgh turnovers into !Pete Johnson touchdown runs and an early 14-0 lead and the Bengals went on to heat the slumping Steelers, who lost for the third straight time after seven con­secutive wins. A victory would have assured the Steelers ofat least a wild card playoffberth. 
Rookie quarterback John Elway 
fired touchdown passes of39 and 49 
yards to rookie wide receiver Clint Sampson, keeping Denver's playoff hopes alive with a rout of the Browns. The victory gave Denver an 8-6 mark and the possibility of a wild-card berth. 
Joe Theismann passed for three touchdowns and kicker Mark Moseley set an NFL scoring record as Washington beat turnover-prone Atlanta. 
Moseley kicked three field goals and four conversions for 13 points, giving him 147 points for the year. That surpassed the non-touchdown record of 145 by Jim Turner of the 1968 New York Jets. The overall record is I 76 by Paul Horning for Green Bay in 1960. 
Tony Collins scored on a 3-yard run after Ricky Smith returned the opening kickoff 53 yards, and the New England Patriots overcame snow, sleet and heavy rain to beat New Orleans. 
Neil Lomax fired a 20-yard touch­down pass to Roy Green while rookie Lionel Washington recovered a fumble and intercepted New York quarterback Scott Brun­ner twice to lead St. Louis over the Giants. 
NFL Standings 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East 
w L T Pet. Miami 10 4 0 .714 Buffalo 8 6 0 .571 N.Y. Jets 7 7 0 .500 New England 7 7 0 .500 Baltimore 6 8 0 .429 
Central Pittsburgh 9 5 0 .643 Cleveland 8 6 0 .571 Cincinnati 6 8 0 .429 Houston 1 13 0 .71 
West L.A. Raiders 11 3 0 .786 Denver 8 6 0 .571 Seattle 7 7 0 .500 Kansas City 5 9 0 .357 San Di~go 5 9 0 .357 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
E..t 
w L T Pet. PF PA 

PF PA Dallas 12 2 0 .857 452 287 324 212 Washington 12 2 0 .857 479 300 259 297 St. Louis 6 7 1 .464 309 397 292 263 Philadelphia 5 9 0 .357 209 271 247 258 N.Y. Giants 3 10 1 .250 233 299 225 323 Central 
Detroit 7 6 0 .538 302 247 304 266 Minnesota 7 6 0 538 281 302 299 291 Green Bay 7 7 0 .500 396 407 315 273 Chicago 6 8 0 .429 269 267 244 413 TampaBay 2 t2 0 143 212 345 
West 

388 290 L.A. Rams 8 6 0 .571 328 299 
264 260 San Francisco 8 6 0 .571 367 266 
362 379 New Orleans 7 7 0 .500 275 294 
300 309 Atlanta 6 8 0 .429 315 344 
303 394 
Thursday's ReauHa 
L.A. Raiders 42, San Diego 10 
Yesterday's ReauHa Buffalo 14, Kansas City 9 Green Bay 31. Chicago 28 Miami 24, 1-touston 1 7 New England 7, New Orleans 0 
Cincinnati 23, Pittsburgh 10 Washington 37, Atlanta 21 Philadelphia 1 3, L.A. Rams 9 St. Louis 10, N.Y. Giants 6 Dallas 35, Seattle 1 0 San Francisco 35, Tampa Bay 21 Denver 27, Cleveland 6 N.Y. Jets 10. Baltimore 6 
Tonight's Game Mmnesota at Detroit 

They power the Irish with 
their enthusiasm. Rock the ACC with their cheers. They're Notre Dame stu-. 
dents, faculty, friends. Roaring their 
support. Civing their team a 
sixth man. Setting college 
basketball's finest ex­
ample of spirit and 
sportsmanship. 
lnLiNE 
CJJringingAmerica home. CJJringi.ngAmerica fun. 
©1983 SkylinFJ Corporation, Elkhart, Indiana 46514 A leading producer of manufactured housing and recreational vehicles.'. 

~4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------M_o_n_d_a_y,_o_e_c_~__ber_s_,1_9_8_3 P_~_e_·__ll 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Campus · . 
fWP FINAU-Y, t£r ME-rru.. 
-1'1 /Jl.K.K, A I'.@1AN'

YOO All<XJT ffl CAffl\IC:ItJ 
1WO PIPS ANti ACRIWI£ ! 

Wt\MrTTEe... l'Mf, weve. 00T 
HA/HA/HA!HAL

f)lfJ{'( KJNI? Of W£lf{P MIX 
Y~651R ... IAI•.

YOO CAN ~MPJ;~N!: ~· 
I 





ACROSS 1 Menu words 4 Short
The Daily Crossword 
distance 8 Way off 12 Israeli airline 13 Heroes o---r.;-.r:n-r.:-o 14 Skirt for Fonteyn-=-:-+---11--+--1 15 Weak one 
..,..,...+~1-~ 

1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 12/5183 
17 Garden 

spot 18 Spots 19 Air speed 
number 21 Sandra or Ruby 22 Reddish brown 24 Lamarr of 
films ments 
Saturday's Solution 
1215/83 

26 Oran's land 29 Hair oil 31 Antique 
car 32 Popular 
lit. 34 Dazes 36 Declare 
bluntly 38 Runs 40 Old Norse 
verse 41 Award 43 Braves 45 Press for 
payment 46 Words with music 48 Able to see In the dark 50 Accoutre­
•12:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "The Guanchias Lim­tada Case: Cooperative Agrarian Reform in Hon­duras and the Role of a Transnational Corporation," Prof. Carolyn McCommon, and Prof Norlin Reuschhoff, Library Lounge 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab Seminar, "The Use of Polymers as Matrices for the Study ofPhotochemi­cal Reactions," Dr. Marco-Aurelio De Pauli, Rad. Lab Conference Theatre 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Lecture, "What is Artificial Intelligence?" Prof. Bruce G. Buchanan, Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Science 

•4:30 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Mathematical Movies," Prof. Thomas Banchofl; 226 CCMB 

•6:45 
p.m. Sllde Show%Discussion, Postgraduate progam for volunteer service, Holy Cross Associates, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Equinox Flower," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Right to Life Organiza­tion: Its Philosophies and Activities," Dr. janet Smith, Library Lounge, Sponsored by NO Women's Caucus 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Mary: 'Who Do You Say That I Am?"' Prof josephine M. Ford, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by NO Women in Theology 

•7:30 
p.m. -Graduate Students Ecumenical Fellowship, Campus Ministry Office 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Handel's "Messiah," Notre Dame Chorale and, Chamber Orchestra, Sacred Heart Church 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Challenge of Peace: God's Promise and Our Response," Auxiliary Bis­hop Thomas J. Gumbleton, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Men vs St Francis, ACC 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series ll, "Pennies From Heaven," Annenberg Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
9p.m.  16  Monday Night at the Movies  
22  AfterMA5H  
28  Monday Night Football  
34  Great Performances  
9:30p.m.  22  Newhart  

Far Side 

this one." 

~~~-------------------1 
t  Cflolid.y•  BUS TRIP  t  
t  Chicago Christmas Shopping Trip  t  
t  t  
t  Sunda~Dec.ll  t  
t  Tickets:$5  t  
t t  -Donuts and Soda will be provided on the bus -Tickets on sale at the Student Union Record Store  t t  
t  Dec. 5&6  t  
:  Sponsored by the SU Social Commission  •  :  



51 Gem 52 Past 54 Cotyor 
Descartes 56 Saudi­60 Entry 62 Without 
choice 64 Miami's county 65 -Island, 
NY 
66 US missile 67 Hades' 
river 68 -we forget 69 Washington 
agcy. 
DOWN 1 Woe is me! 2 Light 
source 3 White feldspar 4 60s col­lege org. 5 British 
soldier 6 Exile isle 7 Hitchcock 
classic 8 Dined 

16 Age 20 Haws' partner 23 Water 
nymphs 25 Palm fruit 26 "My Name 
is-" 27 Even 28 Prim and 
proper one 29 Stab 30 Provide 33 Monk's 
title 35 Beach stuff 37 Something 
to sell 39 Ocean lanes 42 Truth 
bender 44 Harsh 47 Embroidery 
yarn 49 Actress Stritch 51 Comes 
together 52 Totals 53 Capricorn 55 Cairo's 
river 

Photius 
WHY IJO. WE WANT TV t£ A 5f'f.tlit? Bolti?D rot: 
f3o5fOt{ COLL£!':([1 
9 Pompous one 57 Radar 10 Suit to-image 11 Mystery 58 Ms. Chase 12 Mariner's 59 Voice vote 
letters 61 Actor 13 Borough in Harrison England 63 Ignited 
student union takes you to . .. 
Ft. Lauderdale 
including 

* 7nights Sheraton Yankee Trader 
·Round trip motor coach 
$289 

ooO 
START THINKING ABOUT SPRING BREAK!!! 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ..-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ._ k>O'.::IOCXiOCIO:::O=<=OC)Col:i'OQCIO:::O=<=OC>O'.:ICOC:OC::O::COCIOC:lO::CCCIO!::OCCOCIO!::O~ 
.. 

The: uoscn·cr/ll'au! 

Mary Beth Schueth. center on Mary DiStanislao·s Irish women's team, puts in two ofher I7 points over UCLA's Char jones in Satur­day's big 70-6I win Ol'f!r the Bruins. Carrie Bates provided a big boost for the Irish before leaving with an injury. For more on the game, see the story at right. 
Belles salvage a split at Goshen College 
By DAVE WILSON 
.\ports Writer 
l'adng strong squads from both Defiance and Franklin College, the Saint Mary's haskt·thall team returned from this wct·kend's Gos­ht·n Collt-gc Classic with a win and a loss. The Belles were upended 76-'56 hy lkfiancc Friday night, hut returnnl to (;osht•n tht· following af­ternoon to take a last-second 6'5-62 
victory  away  from  Franklin.  The  
tt·am record now stands at 2-2.  
"I  told  the  team  hdore  the  

wet·kcnd that I would he happy with a split", said head coach Mike Rouse. "We're very excited to have that vic­tory over Franklin." 
Though it was a hig win on Satur­day, the lldlcs made a rather poor showing against lkfiance, a team that was 21-6 last season. Apowerful deft-nse hy the opponent hdd Saint Mary's to no offensive rebounds for the entirt· first half, and as Rouse said, "Wt· were never mt·ntally in the ganw. The team just had a tough time concentrating." 
Defiance's ddense continually forn·d tht· lldks to take the outside shot instead of working the hall into tht· key. Although Sain t Mary's forced tht· opponent into 28 tur­novers, the Belles were never quick to make good on those plays, as they had been so many times against Sien­na Heights in the st•ason opener. Fur­thnmort·, a usually helpful full-court p ress was ineffective against lkfiancc. The Belles made 24 of '59 shots for 41 percent, while tossing in H of IS free throw at­tt·mpts for '5.:\ pt·rcent. 
In a balanced scoring effort. Cymly Short led the team with I I points. while Kris Pantdlcria put in nine points, and Teresa McGinnis and Elaine Suess both contributed eight points. Mary McQuillan, Beth Kn·her, and Betsy Ebert all tallied six points, and I.orri White added a has­kt·t for tht· final total. 
lkfiance wenr on to heat Goshen 
on Saturday, and thus remained un­
ddeated in their season. 

Saint Mary's made a much more 
powerful showing against Franklin 
College, holding them to just three 
points in the first eleven minutes 
while scoring 23 points themselves. 
Franklin played catch-up for the 
remainder of the first half, but the 
Belles still led 39-25 at halftime. 

"We were very, very agressive against them", said Rouse of his team. "I think we may have been tired of losing, especially after the nigh t before." 
This time the press was very d­fective, and a more confident of­fense led Saint Mary's to first-half shooting of over '50 percent. However, Franklin made it a very exciting game hy outscoring the Belles 19-5 in the opening minutes of the second half. Also using a full court defense, Franklin led for most of the second half. until a steal and break-away lay-up hy McGinnis, and two free throws hy Ebert tied the game at 60-60 with just a minute remaining. The teams traded bas­kets, and then with five seconds r.:maining, Suess scored and was fouled to put the Belles ahead for 
good. She made good on the free throw for the final 65-62 result. 
"Everyone played well tonight. espt.·cially Beth (Kreher)", remarked Rouse. "We were just lucky to get Franklin early in the season, and with a new coach too." 
In the scoring, Pantdleria had a magnificent offensive effort with I 7 points, while Suess scored 1.:\ points, including 9 of 13 free throws. Kreher had twelve points with six of seven field goal attempts, while Short had nine points, McQuillan six, and McGinnis and Ebert had four points. 
The Belles will play Franklin again on January 21. Meanwhile, Saint Mary's returns to Angela Athletic Facility Tuesday night to face the team from Hope College. 
Monday, December 5, 1983-page 12 
Irish women get big win over UCLA behind Bates, Scheuth 
Fields silences Notre Dame crowd 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSports Editor 
The Notre Dame student section was fired up and ready to play its role as the fabled "sixth man" when Saturday's Irish-UCLA battle tipped off. Plenty of noise echoed through­out the ACC and out to a national television audience as UCLA got the ball on the tip. 
It took only 16 seconds before Kenny Fields, the "crowd silencer" of the Bruins, did he would do many times throughout the day, bring the roar of the home crowd to a hush. Fields' jumper over surprise starter Cecil Rucker gave UCLA a lead that 
they  would  never  relinquish  en  
route  to  a  thrilling  51-4 7  victory  
over the Irish.  

Tonight, the Irish will try to rebound from that disappointing loss a'> they take on St. Francis of Brooklyn, N.Y. The Terriers play in the ECAC Metro Conference and are coached by Gene Roberti. 
For nearly the next four minutes after, neither team could manage any sort ofscoring, both missing out on a opportune chance to grab a big lead early. 
TONIGHT 
men's basketball vs. St. Francis 
7:30p.m. ACC Main Arena 

UCLA eventually worked itselfout 
to a 6-2 lead, before Tom Sluby's 
layup off a Joseph Price steal and 
Price's one free throw 32 seconds 
later brought Notre Dame back to 6­
5 and the crowd to a fever pitch. 
But then Fields went to work. The 6-7 senior forward of the Bruins quieted the crowd once again, this time by hitting a jumper over Sluby, then dishing off to Monte! Hatcher for another two, before tapping in a Hatcher miss, and UCLA had stretched its lead out to 12-7. 
Notre Dame pulled within 14-13 on two Sluby field goals and a Jim Dolan turnaround jumper. and had enlivened its home crowd for the third time of the day. The next part was predictable by that time. 
Kenny Fields. 

Notre Dame trailing 40-:H, Bates began a streak that saw her score the team's next I 0 points. The streak brought the Irish to a 44-44 tie. When Ruth Kaiser hit a jumper from outside with just over 1.:\ minutes remaining, Notre Dame wa~ aht.·ad 46-44 and never trailed again. 
Bates, who ended up with 18 points and six rebounds, continued to be a force underneath while the Irish stretched their lead to S5-4R. However, she collided with UCLA's Annette Keur and suffered a knee in­jury that forced her out of the game. 
"Carrie's injury wa<> so untimely," said DiStanislao. "It wa'> the best game she's played for us. She played strong inside and was very intense. You're just seeing somt· of the potential she has." 
With Bates gone, the Notre Dame lead began to dwindk until a three­point play by the Bruins' Char Jones brought UCLA within two at '5'5-'5.:\. 
see WOMEN page 8 

By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
There's a familiar saying that g oes "Good things come to those who wait." Well, the Notre Dame women's basketball team has been waiting for a couple ofyears to beat a nationally-known power, and now the waiting has paid off. On Saturday evening, the Irish beat UCLA, 70-61. 
The victory marks the high point 
of the women's basketball program 
which Coach Mary DiStanislao has 
been building up for three years. 
"It's something we've been 
working for," said Irish center Mary 
Beth Schueth who had her best 
game of the young season, scoring 
1 7 points and pullin~,; down nine 
rebounds. 
"This was a real good win for us," 
said DiStanislao. "We beat a very, 
very good team." 
UCLA was just the type of team 
that Notre Dame had been having 
trouble heating, up until Saturday at 
UCLA tops Irish 
least. Despite good records of 16-9 and 20-7 over the last two years, the Irish have been unable to heat a nationally-known opponent. Last weekend's fourth-place finish in the four-team Notre Dame Classic which featured three highly-ranked teams was just the latest example. 
However, all this was forgotten when Notre Dame, behind the out­standing play of junior forward Carrie Bates, erased a nine-point deficit in the first half to go in front by as much as I I in the second. 
Surprisingly, the game was won 
underneath the basket. It wa~ 
surprising because UCLA had seven 
players who were at least six feet 
tall, while the Irish only had four. 
Two of those four, Schueth and 
Bates, dominated the inside play in 
the second half a~ they used their 
quickness to get around the slow 
UCLA forwards. 

It was Bates who turned the game 
around with a four-minute scoring 
spree early in the second half. With 
Fields took a pass from Dave Im­mel after the Bruins had broken the Irish press and went in for a vicious 
slam  dunk.  The  "crowd  silencer"  
had stepped in  again  to  hush the  
Irish fans.  

That dunk sent UCLA off on an eight point spurt that would give them a 22-13 lead. Notre Dame tried to pull close again with a basket, but who should show up again to end any Irish hopes of a similar spurt. Kenny Fields. 
Fields hit a bank shot over Dolan and UCLA coasted the remaining four minutes of the half, holding a comfortable 32-21 lead at the inter­mission. 
Notre Dame was held down in the 
first half by their 9-30 shooting. Irish head coach Digger Phelps sub­stituted all of his bench hut Barry Spencer and Casey Newell in hopes offinding someone with a hot hand with seemingly no luck. Still, it was not that Notre Dame wa'> taking bad shots -only missing them. 
"I looked at the shot selection," said Phelps afterward, "and a lot of those shots were good shots." 
The second half opened with Fields quickly picking up his third foul of the game but UCLA head coach Larry Farmer chose to leave his star in the game. 
Fields' layup coming on one of Ralph Jackson's nine assists of the 
see MEN page 8 



