--------~-~---~----------------------------------------------------... 
Irish Extra -page 7 

VOL XVIII, NO. 26 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1983
tht· imlc:pc:mknt ~tuJc:nt nc:w~papc:r st-r\·ing notn dame and ~aint man··~ 

Reflecting thou~ts 
juniors Mark Melchior and Kerry Barnett Putting books asidefor a while, the duo basks in prefer the scenic outdoors to the confines of the the library's reflecting pool. library as the first round of exams approaches. 
Galvin Life Science Center slates $3 million addition for January 
By AMY STEPHAN 
Copy Editor 
Pending zoning approval, con­struction on a S3 million addition to Galvin Life Science Center should begin in January, said Director of Physical Plant Donald Dedrick. 
The addition, which has been in the works for four years, will house the animal research center. It will meet expanded research needs and "constantly changing government guidelines," said Dr. Paul Weinstein, professor ofbiology. 
The planned addition, which will be built onto the east side of the building, extends too near to Juniper Rd to meet current zoning regulations. Dedrick noted that or­ganizers "didn't believe as the build­ing was designed that zoning would be a problem." He added, however, that since the road curves near the 
addition, it conflicts with zoning regulations. 
The request for zoning variance will be considered "sometime next week," said Dedrick. If the zone variance is not approved, he said, "we will have to go back and redesign the building and settle for less than optimum." 
The planned animal research cen­ter is "absolutely incredible" said Weinstein, noting that the building will have special units for change of air, temperature and humidity con­trol. "The physical environment will be given very sophisticated atten­tion," he said. 
The two-story addition will provide 24,000 square feet of space ~ nearly a 20 percent increase in space for the Galvin Life Science Center. One story will be under­ground and the other above ground, said Dedrick. 
Real estate confusion reigns in tavern district 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Managing Editor 
There is additional real estate confusion in the Five Points tavern district these days. Harold Rowley, ownerofCorby'sTavern, says he is negotiatingfor the purchase ofthe bookstore property recently leased by State Rep. 
B. Patrick Bauer, owner ofBridget McGuire's Filling Station. 
However, the bookstore property owner, Ben Schwartz of Maumelle, Ark, says Rowley has never given him the impression that he is sincerely interested in the property. 
"Ifyou want to call it negotiating ...We have occasionally talked, but it never got to the offering state," said Schwartz. Schwartz told The Observer he would consider selling the property, but "no one has made an offer." 
He said he last spoke with Rowley early last week while he was in South Bend. At that time Schwartz signed a parking agreement with Bauer. Under the lease, Bridget's patrons have access to 13 parking spaces on Schwartz' Pandora Books property. 
Rowley says he has paid for an appraisal of the property which valued the land at JS5,000. "I plan to provide him (Schwartz)with a copy ofthe appraisal soon," he says. Then he plans to make Schwartz an offer on the land. 
Rowley will only say he plans to establish "another commercial activity not related to liquor" on the property ifhe purchases it. "My interests have nothing to do with Corby's Tavern or Bridget McGuire's," said Rowley. 
The building will be used for teaching purposes and research, said Weinstein, but it will be completely restricted to authorized students and faculty members. The addition "will meet the demands ofchanging faculty and student interests," he said, stressing that the research cen­ter will be built for "absolute flexibility." 
see GALVIN, page 5 
Senate gives OK for Lebanese aid 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON ~ The Senate voted yesterday to permit President Reagan to keep 1,600 Marines in Lebanon for up to 18 -months, tur­ning aside warnings that the United States may be headed for an un­
declared war like the one in Viet­nam. 
The vote was 54-46, with two Democrats joining 52 Republicans in approving the authorization sought by the GOP administration. 
The measure was passed by the House on Wednesday, but must be returned there so that relatively minor differences between the two versions can be resolved. 
The Senate turned down amend­ments to shorten the time period to six months, to impose the timetable of 60 to 90 days spelled out in the War Powers Act, and to restrict the Marines to the Beirut area 
Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr., R-Tenn., said the ad­ministration has no plans to expand the mission ofthe. Marines in Beirut, but that adopting any of the amend­
ments  would  unravel  the  com­ 
promise  worked  out  with  the  
administration.  

Sen. Paul Tsongas, D-Mass., whose amendment to restrict the Marines to Beirut was defeated 56-42, said its rejection "would cause many of us to wonder what the mission really is." 
Baker, urging approval of the 18­month extension, said he had "grave doubts" about the wisdom of sen­ding the Marines to Lebanon, but added, "They are committed, they are under fire, and it would be a tragic mistake if the Congress were to withdraw them." 
Minority Leader Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said the administration has failed to provide a clear definition of the purpose ofhaving the Marines in Beirut. He said he hopes the ad­ministration will do so. 
The Senate version of the resolu­tion contains provisicns, not adopted by the House, callingfor the president to report every three months instead of every six months and providing for speedy considera­tion of any later measures to bring the troops home. These could be ac­cepted by the House or resolved in a conference committee. 
Democrats voting for the exten­sion were Sens. Edward Zorinsky of Nebraska and George Mitchell of Maine. 
Sens. Lowell Weicker, R-Conn., Mark 0. Hatfield, R-Ore., and Wil­
liam  Roth,  R-Del.,  joined  43  
Democrats in opposing it.  
The six-month amendment  was  

defeated 62-38, with Sen. Charles Me. Mathias, R-Md., joining 37 Democrats in supporting the proposed reduction of the time limit. 
Sen.Claiborne Pell, D-R.I., senior Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee, led the fight for the shorter timetable, likening the lon­ger authorization to "an 18-month GulfofTonkin resolution." 
The Tonkin resolution, passed by Congress in 1964, was relied upon by successive administrations a~ jus­tification for U.S. involvement in the war in Vietnam. It was referred to by critics of the compromise through­out the four-day Senate debate. 
"I would admit that a six-month Gulf of Tonkin resolution is not a good idea either, but it is a better idea," Pell said. 
·Author of hit TV series M*A*S*H reveals secrets behind production 
By RAY FRONK 
News Staff 
The secret behind the name "B)", 
a popular character on the hit televi­
sion series "M*A*S*H", was revealed 
Wednesday night by author David 
Reiss. 
Reiss, addressing a capacity 
crowd ofM*A•s•H fans, said that the 
mysterious initials of Hawkeye's 
sidekick belong to Bill Jergenson, a 
cameraman who the M*A*S*H crew 
honored when he left the set. 
Reiss offered other tidbits oftrivia 
about the M*A*S*H actors, revealing 
that Gary Burghoff (Radar) is a 
drummer and singer/songwriter, 
and Larry linville (Frank Burns) has 
an Aerospace Engineering degree 
and designs, builds, and flies his own 
bi-planes. 
Reiss also revealed that, at the age of 12, Alan Aida (Hawkeye) was crippled with polio, and owes his life to a nun named Sister Kinney who cured Aida with what Reiss called, "radical therapy methods." 
Reiss started "An Evening of M*A*S*H" with a history of the series. M*A*S*H began as a book written by a doctor who worked in Korea in 1952, was then developed into a movie by 20th Century Fox, and finally became a series which ran for eleven years on CBS. 
Over 240M*A*S*H episodes were 
produced, said Reiss, 95 percent of 
which were filmed indoors. The 
Army tents, which were kept barren until used in a scene, had no ceilings and only one or two walls (except the Swamp, the tent inhabited by the series' main characters, which had three). 
About 35 people comprised the total M*A*S*H crew, which worked 12 hours a day, five days a week. According to Reiss, it took longer than the usual three or four days to shoot an episode when Alan Aida directed. 
Unlike most television series, the M*A*S*H crew spent one day per episode rehearsing and walking through the scenes, allowing for in­put by all involved, said Reiss. 
The program included a slide 
presentation in which actors spoke 
about their respective characters, 
focusing on resemblances between 
their own personalities and those of 
the characters that they portrayed. 
Laughter filled the auditorium as students viewed Corporal Max Klin­ger Oamie Farr) in a collection ofhis best outfits. The M*A*S*H theme, "Suicide is Painless," was played during slides of the entire M*A*S*H operation. 
Reiss described many practical jokes that crew members played on one another. Henry Morgan (Col. Potter) and David Ogden Stiers (Maj. Wincester) were notorious pranksters, who would often "sneakup on" and "karate chop" each other, said Reiss. They would 
go to great lengths to hide and wait 
for the chance to "chop" one anoth­
er, he said. 
This continued until Morgan 
faked a heart attack when "attacked" 
by Stiers, said Reiss. The crew then 
went through various phases of 
jokes involving water balloons, 
whoopee cushions, and surgical 
clamps secretly attached on each 
other's gowns in the operating 
room. 
When Reiss showed a blooper film of mistakes, called "M*I*S*H M*A*S*H," the auditorium echoed with laughter once again. 
Reiss said the reality of M*A*S*H accounts for its enduring popularity: The show realistically relates feelings, emotions, and concerns 
that affect everyone. 

•I 
David Reiss 
The Observer Friday, September 30, 1983-page 2 
lit Brief · 
The law that requiresall students receiving federal finanical aid to comply with Selective Service requirements goes into effect tomorrow. Male students between the ages of 18 and 22 must submit a form to the financial aid office stating that they have rt·gistnnl with the Selective: Service. Female students receiving fedt·ral aid must submit a form stating that they are not bound by Sdn:tive Snvict· laws. -1he Ohser11er 
The Polish government in Warsaw indicted 
Jacck Kuron and three other Solidarity advisers yesterday, but 
rcdun·d the charges, removing the thrc:at of the death penalty. 
Kuron. Adam Michnick,Zhignic:w Romaszc:wski and Henryk Wujec 
were chargt:d with preparing to overthrow the communist system, 
the official PAP news agency reported. Ifconvicted, they face prison 
sentences of up to I 0 years. They were arrested in 1982 on charges 
of trying, not merely preparing, to overthrow the system, for which 
the maximum penalty is death. There was no indication whether 
there would be a similar reduction in charges against seven top 
Solidarity leaders awaiting indictment wjJO are held on the same 
capital charge. They are Andrzej Gwiazda, Seweryn Jaworski, Karol 
Modzelewski, Grzegorz Palka, Andrzej Rozplochowski, Marian 
Jurczyk andJan Rulewski. Kuron, Michnik, Romaszewski and Wujec 
were members of the Committee for Social Self-Defense, a small 
group of intellectual dissidents known as KOR for its Polish initials, 
which disbanded at the Solidarity congress in September 1981. 
Kuron was an adviser to Lech Walesa during the strike wave during 
the summer of 1980 that resulted in formation of the independent 
labor federation Solidarity. He and the other members of his group 
counseled the union during the 16-month of existence before the 
declaration of martial law, generally urging cautious policies. No 
trial date was announced for the four men. -AP 
One ofthe most conservative Republicans in 
the House said yesterday that President Reagan and his aides are 
"deluding themselves" hy declaring the case closed over Interior 
SecretaryJames Watt. IfWatt isn't fired, the administration will face a 
series ofembarrassing votes in Congress condemning him, said Rep. 
Newt Gingrich. Gingrich said he could see no "significant numbers" 
of House supporters left behind Watt. But at the White House, 
presidt·ntial aides continued to pronounce the issue settled over 
Watt's description of five advisers as "a black ... a woman, two Jews 
and a cripple." "The Watt matter is behind us as far as the White 
House is concerned," said presidential spokesman Larry Speakes, ec­
hoing recenr comments from Reagan aides. They have said Reagan· 
considt.·rs Watt's apology sufficient and will not seek his resignation., 
At the Interior Department, Watt's aides were not commenting on a· 
published report that Watt considered his status so precarious.aver 
the weekend that he had prepan:d a letter of resignation. They too 
attempted to close off further discussion, refusing to discuss the ex­
traordinary no-confidence resolutions in the House and Senate. Both 
measures call for Reagan to fire Watt. "We are not commenting fur­
ther," said Doug Baldwin, Watt's chiefspokesman. "I see no further 
purpose to be made by commenting on an issue the president has 
said is doscd." But Gingrich became the latest Republican to desert 
Watt, sending the president a letter yesterday declaring, "Watt's sick 
joke is a slur on millions ofAmericans. Retaining him in office clearly 
implies an indiffercnce to or insensitivity about fundamental human 
decency." -2AP 
0
Of Interest 
·, •· 
Oct. 2 is Respect Life Sunday,a day offasting 
and prayer. Masses will celebrate Respect Life Sunday and a Rosary will wil held at the Grotto at 9:30p.m. -The Observer 
A new Ca111pus group exploring social justice in Latin America, the Student Organization for Latin America, will spon­sor a three-part lecture series analyzing the roles of the Catholic Church and the United States in the region. Rev. Michael Colonnese bq~ins thc scrit's tonight. Colonnese directs the Commitment Progam -an ecumenical group in Mexico that resettles refugees from El Salvador. His talk at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns is on "A Great 20th Century Human Tragedy: The Refugee Situation in Central America." The other lectures will take place on Monday and Thursday. -7he Obserr,er 
Weather . -. 
Sunny and warm todaywith a high in the low HOs. Clt-ar and cool tonight. Low in the mid SOs. Mostly sunny and warm tomorrow. High in the low to mid HOs. -AP 
The errors of wise guys 
Talking to wise guys, like putting clean sheets on a 
bed, is not fun. 
My roommate swears that he'd rather burn in hell 
than face a stack ofmattresses all needing sheets, and he 
likes wise guys even less. 
The trouble with wise guys is that they violate the basic requirement for social survival: It's best to be as dumb as the next guy. 
Thus I have made it a point never to memorize whether sine at zero equals one or zero because ofa fear left over from the seventh grade that if I do, somebody will beat me up for being a wise guy. 
One night in the heyday of junior high school. a bunch of us were discussing a trigonometry test set for the next day. One boy whose physique we all admired insisted that sine at zero equals one. 
"Not so," said the smartest boy in the class from be­hind his horn-rimmed glasses. "The sine of zero equals zero." 
"Shut up, you wise guy," issues. said the boy whose physique At first this may sound like we all admired as he ground a case of Infectious the horn-rimmed glasses American Ignorance. On beneath his trig textbook. second thought, however, That's when I realized it's admitting that you know all smart to be dumb, and I've about Central America may since worked hard to avoid start some suspicious grum­demonstrating any more in­bling that maybe you know telligence than absolutely more than you should. necessary. But it isn't easy. And if you know some­
Education in general and thing about Central college in particular have America, you probably made this quite a battle. know all about Chad too. If 
Professors want us to in­so, you probably understand crease our knowledge to a Cuba. And Afghanistan. And point ofsaturation, while we 
Poland. Soon, people will are trying to be as dumb as have you sitting right in the the next guy. The two middle of the Politburo. 
processes are opposite -some 
like rubbing a eat's fur the wrong way. 
Adelicate balance is needed. 
Last semester, for example, someone doing a public­opinion poll called me. Just how much did I like McDonald's McNuggets? A lot, I said. Then I was asked: "Who was the first congressmen ever elected speaker of the House during his first term? 
(a) Henry Cabot Lodge (b) Henry Clay (c) Henry Kis­singer (d) don't know. 
Not remembering much from my history classes, I answered "Kissinger." Honestly, I should have answered (d) because just like 9,999 people out of I0,000, I really didn't know. But revealing your ig­norance can show a great deal of common sense, and not wanting to be a wise guy, I gave the ridiculous answer. 
Sure, sure, the pollster wouldn't have beaten me up for being a wise guy, but he might very well have retaliated by hurting the McNuggets market in some 
~The_Ohs.erYer_ 
Composition Editor................................ ) df Composition Assistant....................... Mike Layout Staff....................... Mary and Susan Typesetters ..................................... Ted Oore News Edltor...................................... Sulllvan Copy Editor ................................ Harrington Sports Copy Editor ..................................Joe Features CopyEdltor..................}oe Who? Editorials Layout.......................)oe Daddy Science Layout......................... I don! know Features Layout ...................... ! dont know ND Day Editor......................... ! don! know 
SMCDayEditor ......................... Jdim! care 
Ad Design ................. Some husiness major 
Pbotograpber ............................... )oe Kodak 
Guest Appearances ....... Bdeagured Math 
Major, Herh the Backgammon King and 
The Nauseated Ulcer Kid 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) IS publtshed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObNrver IS publt shed by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary's College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Obeerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The ObMrver 1s a member of The Aeaoclated Preu. Ail 
reprodui:lton nghts are reserved 
Bob Vonderheide 
News Editor 
Inside Friday 
way. The fast-food business tends to be suspicious of food which appeals to those who read more than menu boards, and so I thought a dumb answer was in order. 
I mention all this because: ofa poll taken this summer by The New York Times. The results showed that most Americans think that Central America refers to Kansa,, or Oklahoma. The Times' study also revcaled that a vast majority of Americans have no idea which side the U.S. government supports in El Salvador or Nicaragua ­even after Ronald Reagan has spent the better part ofhis 
term harping about these 

Having knowledge about Central America means that you know President Reagan's policies are a failure. You know that the U.S. has looked at the region through East-West binoculars 'for 20 years. And you know that as the U.S. sticks to this perspective more and more, our policies are working 
less and less. 
But before someone calls me a wise guy, remember 
that the endless pursuit ofpoor foreign policy is dumb­
ness of high order, and being one who values such 
dumbness, I commend the U.S. government for the de­
gree ofdumbness it has achieved in Central America 
After all, it's smart to be dumb. And Reagan seems to 
know all about that. As for El Salvador, don't ask me. 
Isn't it the name of a new trig function? 
The Observer is always looking for new talent. If you are interested in newspaper writing or newspaper production, stop up at The Observer office on the 3rd floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 

BOITOMLESS 
glass of Champagne served 12:30-2:30p.m. I no additional charge) 
234-2000 
All-You -Can-Eat Brunch 
On Sundays, it's Brunch at the Marriott 
Every Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., enjoy Brunch at the Marriott. A stupendous buffet of omelettes, waffles, and bagels, plus seafood, salads, cheeses, fruits, assorted hot entrees and vegetables. 
Thp your meal off with an array 
of mouth-watering desserts. 1b add to your pleasure, there's live entertainment too. All for $9.95 for adults, $4.95 for children under 12. 
For reservations, please call ­
SOUTH BEND ~Qrrtott HOTEL 
12:J N. St. Joseph Street, South Bend. Indiana 46601 
The Observer~ Friday, September 30, 1983 -page 3 
SMC Hunger Coaltition raises more than $4,300 in first independent year 
By HELEN LUCAITIS awareness; our goal is to help stu­StaffReporter dents to become more sensative to the suffering and to help students 
The Saint Mary's World Hunger discover ways to reach out to help Coalition raised over S4,300 last the poor." year, its first year as an independent / 
"This year we will focus on organization geared to help fight increasing awareness of Central world hunger. 
America and the role the U.S. 
Saint Mary's split from the Notre government plays in it with world Dame World Hunger Coalition last hunger," said Anne Gallagher, the fall because "there was not much coalition's educational commis­participation on the part of Saint sioner. Mary's students since most ofthe ac­
The coaliton is now planning for ~ivities were held at Notre Dame," the Oxfam fast to be held on Novem­said Saint Mary's General Coor­ber 17. Activities planned for that daydinatorJackie Meluch. "Now we can include Masses to start and end themeet more often and get more ac­day, and a "break fast" suppercomplished." 

consisting ofsoup and bread. 
The Observer/<:aror GaJes 
The World Hunger Coalition is a Election Day
Other activities planned for this
group of students and faculty mem­Farley freshman Sylvia Elixavide votes on an placedbefore Farley residents yesterday calledfor 
year include various speakers and
bers working together to alleviate amendment to her dorm's constitution under the changing the date ofhallelections to avoid a con­
fJ..lms, a mini retreat in February, a
hunger and increase awareness of supervision ofmonitorKay Wigton. The proposal flict with the ResidentAssistantselection period. 
display from the Catholic Relief
hunger and poverty. Service on world hunger, and the "Now we are structurally inde­
Wednesday Lental fast. pendent, but we are still very active 
Kremlin continues anti-U.S. stance, 
with Notre Dame's group. Now we "There is so much going in the just have a lot more student involve­world concerning hunger, and even ment," said Sister Mary Turgi, lhe though we are just a small group, I 
attacks American nuclear policy 
coalition's advisor. "We emphasize feel we are successfully making a Associated Press the United States and its allies of night, indicating Andropov want;.'!d
educating students on world sut'er­contribution by exposing problems "conducting a policy of militarism to assure that his Wednesday state­
ing. Just raising money is not to the Saint Mary's community," said MOSCOW -The Kremlin kept and military dictate, flouting the ment through Tass would receive
enough. The solution to the world Colleen Flynn, the coalition's 
hunger problem is in increasing spiritual commissioner. 

SENIORS!!! Please don't forget your 
Senior Portrait Appointments. 

--------------­
Spots are still available ... 
call 239-5185 right away. 
a job, a career, a future ... 
The telecommunications industry is growing at a record pace. Spiraling transportation costs and the dissolu­tion of the traditional boundaries between voice and data technologies are two of the factors responsible for that growth. To keep pace with the industry, Tellabs is expanding its Engineering staff. 
Tellabs is one of the leading independent suppliers of equipment to the telecommunications industry_ If you are a graduating engineer who is interested in design­ing state-of-the-art voice and data communications products -products like our digital echo canceller, statistical multiplexers, and microprocessor-controlled selective signaling systems, we have a place for you_ 
On October 11, 1983, our representatives will conduct interviews and tell you about our excellent starting salaries, cash profit sharing, comprehensive health insurance package, and full tuition reimbursement program. Sign up through your campus Engineering Placement Office. If you happen to miss us, you may send your resume directly to Tellabs, attention Mr_ Bob Pastiak_ 
up its offensive against the Reagan standards of international law and undiluted world attention. administration yesterday, releasing morals and resorting to most shame-"I don't think you could easily find the second harsh anti-U.S. statement ful provocations." something comparable in the recent in two days from President Yuri V. "These forces seek to poison the past carrying the signature of the Andropov. international climate and create an general secretary," one w<;ll-
In a statement issued through the atmosphere ofdistrust and enmity in informed NATO diplomat said ofthe official Tass news agency on Wed­interstate relations. Theirs is an ad-Andropov statements. nesday, the Soviet leader charged venturistic, criminal policy. It is Although Andropov's name gave that the Reagan administration was fraught with the danger of nuclear the Wednesday statement on the behaving in a way that raised ques­conflict and jeopardizes all peoples, Korean plane extra weight, the tions about its pledge not to start a their life, their security and their diplomat said "I think it is significant nuclear war. He also reiterated offi-freedom," he said. that the tone (Andropov has cial statements blaming the United He made those remarks Wednes-adopted) is not sharper than what States for the Soviet attack on a day during a meeting with South has been published already as the of­South Korean airliner. Yemen leader Ali Nasser Muham-ficial Soviet position since the 
Then yesterday, Tass carried an mad. But Tass did not report the downing of the South Korean air­Andropov statement that accused meeting or the remarks until last liner." 

111
tellabs 
Douglas Niedt 
Classical Guitarist In concert at 
Century Center Wednesday, October 25 


TeUabs, Inc. 4951 Indiana Avenue Lisle, Illinois 60532 (312) 969·8800 
Another Western diplomat called the Andropov statement "incredibly tough" but said he could not spell out Andropov's intent. 
"He's coupled these extremely harsh words.with a very sincere and reasoned call for peace on Earth and has been extremely careful not to shut the door on Reagan's proposals," he said. "You could read this both ways -'Do it our way or else. Or, we are ready to talk serious­ly about improving relations."' 
A third diplomat suggested the Soviet leader was trying to frighten the West Germans into opposing the planned NATO deployment of 572 American Pershing 2 and cruise missiles beginning in December. 
The Kremlin clearly believes it suffered greatly in the eyes of the world over its rocket attack on the South Korean airliner, which crashed with 269 people on board. 

The Observer Friday, September 30, 1983 -page 4 

Continental, debated grounding all leadership," said airline spokesman planes to call attention to a "disease Bruce Hicks. plaguing the industry." Flight attendants also voted un-
Halting flights of most of the na-animously Wednesday to strike Con­tion's jetliners for "a day or two" tinental tomorrow, but left the door would give a message "to the open for a settlement, said Marilyn government and to the public" that Wade, of the Union of Flight Atten­the industry is in economic trouble dants in Los Angeles. because of airline deregulation, the About 30 percent of the 2,800 executive council of the Air Line flight attendants are working, said Pilots Association said. The 47-Darenda Hardy, head ofthe Union of member group includes a member Flight Attendants in Houston. from each airline whose pilots are Hardy said new wages and work covered by the association. rules were "unreasonable" and said 
A panel ofContinental pilot union the company was "totally disman­executives called the strike for 2 tling the seniority system." 
• •:
: Tonight! 
! M*A*S*H ! 
: Dance : !• Chautauqua -Friday 9:00 !• : $1.00 : 
.• .• 
:• . '~ .: • 
: . 
P••---••••••••••••coa~a-••••••••••••••••1 
II This Weekend...
i 
FORGET ABOUT BARS I GO TO "ClASS" 
(1Opm -Midnight Fri. & Sat.) 
LATENIGHT HAPPYHOUR 
Student Speclala with Coupon 
Cheese Fondue For Two ••••••.••• $4.95 
Well Drinks••••••• $1.00 

I 
i1 
i 
I I I 
In the 100 Center
RESERVATIONS RECOMMENDED 
••••••••••-••••-• coupon••••••••••••••••••
i"'';, """"'""""""'"""""'""'--"""...,,__._,..""'' 
urn's Creative Costume Shop
. 608 Liberty Drive, Mishawaka 259-4807
I 

Fulfill Your Wildest Fantasies \Nith Our Costumes Birthday Cake Dancing Beer Cans 
1 Lepracauns 
Sequin Gowns ! Spiders Sequin Jackets -~Fly Bee 
l 
~ AND MANY MORE ~ ~ Student Discounts Stop in to Reserve No Deposit with Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID I HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 9:00am-5:00pm Sat. 9:00am ·12:00 noon Extended Hours ior Halloween 
·""'­

Continental, formerly the nation's eighth largest airline, charged the carrier with implementing unsafe A touch ofIrish green will be added to the new mall soon when emergency work rules and trying to dozens ofbundles ofsod are rolled out. The bundles werepiled on break the union. The company has thesidewalks outsideLaFortune Centeryesterday as tbe mall nears denied those charges. completion. 
At COMPUTER SPECIALISTS, -eonsider dilk dmes, mouitors, inMrfacet, and applications soft­ware as tfondard, not optional extra cost odd­on.. Ewrything required to make ttw computer do eYeryday ..,., is included. The KAYPitO is a com­
pl... s)'1111M. 
..,.,2 lflltHilllO  
'1595 -~ .............  '2795..... -.-~  


PLAY WITH THE STARS 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * * * * 
* 
* 
* 
* 
A Converse LA '84"' Trainer Nylon & suede jogger. Reg. $23.99-$24.99. Men's & women's sizes. 
$18 
* * * 
* * 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
B. Converse All Star"' Canvas hi cut basketball sneaker. Reg. S19.99. Men's sizes. 
$i5 


Morse has a winning line-up 'of'St~ I The Converse stars. Whether you're a spectator or participant. Converse shoes 
"'~morse 
are high scorers. Now on sale 
Scottsdale Mall 
at winning values. 
South Bend

·------------·-----------_...:==-:...:...:.......:::=-:..:..=__________j 
-----------------. 
TheObserver Friday, September 30, 1983-page 5 
-
First fatherI daughter weekend begins today 

By REBECCA HETLAND 
News Staff 
Fathers of St. Mary's seniors will invade what was once a mot­her/daughter tradition as the the College's first father/daughter weekend gets underway with a cocktail party at the Marriott at 8 tonight. 

Saint Mary's Senior Class Vice President Denise Drake explained that the father/daughter weekend originated as part of her campaign platform last spring. Since her elec­tion, Drake has worked to imple­ment this plan. 
One hundred and eight fathers of Saint Mary's seniors are expected to participate in the weekend, which opens with tonight's cocktail and hot hors d'ourves party, according to Drake. 
The Father/Daughter Sports Fes­tival will take place tomorrow. Fes­tival activities include tennis golf, swimming, racquetball, and a 5K 

ND professor 'united faith, 
•

intellectualism'!
• 
ByJOHN MCGREEVY •
•
News Staff 
•
• 
English Professor Frank O'Malley, 
•
who taught at Notre Dame for more • than 40 years, was instrumental in •
•
the movement uniting Catholicism •
•
and intellectualism from the '30s to the '70s, a Wisconsin history profes­•• • sor said last night. •
•
In a lecture sponsored by the • American Catholic Studies Seminar, • Professor Arne Spar argued that O'Malley was a "representative • figure of Catholic revivalist thought •
• 
between 1930 and 1960." 
• Spar, a professor at Northland Col­• lege in Ashland, Wis., said O'Malley, •
•
through his teaching and writing, was able to synthesize Catholic • tradition and help develop a new in­•
•
tellectual pattern. O'Malley had a •
•
"totality of vision and an integrated view. He brought philosophy, •
•
literature and theology together in • his writings," said Spar. •
• 
Arenowned English teacher at the • University from 1933 to 1974, •• O'Malley's teaching reflected his 
• 
personal philosophy, Spar said, ad­• ding that O'Malley urged Catholic lay people, particularly intellectuals, to avoid the separation of faith and career. "O'Malley thought Christian • assumptions expanded the imagina­•
• 
tion, not stifling it. He urged Cat­holics to integrate their faith with • their entire life, not simply one • part." •
•
•
•
• • • • Galvin •••• 
•
• 
continued/rom page 1 •
•
•
A renovation has allowed the 
•
curtent facility to be used without • violation, but with constantly chang­•• ing guidelines. Weinstein said Notre •
•
Dame "can no longer use the cur­rent facility without risking viola­tion. If we are to continue as a modern research and teaching facility, we must meet guidelines." •
• 
The building will include: an automatic watering system; special; • easily-sanitized floors; cage and bed­• ding washing facilities; a quarantine • area for newly-arrived animals; and •• an air filtering system that will allow •• for 15 changes ofair per hour. 
Dedrick said that the addition 
should take 14 to 15 months to corn­
plete. The addition was designed by 
Ellerbe and Associates, who also •• 
designed the Galvin Life Science •
•
building and the new faculty office • building. •• run, said Drake. 

A speaker series and a pre-game tailgater are also planned for tomor­row. According to Drake, the pre­game tailgater will be at 2 p.m. in the Haggar College Center and will feature a wide variety of food and beverages. Following the tailgater, the NO-Colorado game will be shown on the newly-puchased wide­screen TV in Haggar. 
A father/daughter Mass will be held at 10 a.m. Sunday at the Church of Loretto, followed by a farewell brunch in the lower-level dining hall, said Drake. 
Drake serves as chairwoman for 
the event. Her co-organizers are 
Diane Turley, Eilleen Ryan, Jean 
Brown, Kathleen Casey, Lindy Thill, 
Maura Keyes, and Jane Baeke. Each 
co-organizer is in charge of one of 
the weekend's activities. 

Drake noted that the Marriott Hotel offered a special discount to fathers participating in the event. Also instrumental in keeping the participation fee at $18 were dona­tions from United Beverage and the free use of the Haggar College Cen­
ter, said Drake. 
:
• 


The Observer/Carol Gales

Entree surprise 
Chris Martin hesitates while choosing from ham, and macaroni and cheese were among the the vast array of culinary delights displayed at selections awaiting hungryDomers atyesterday's South Dining Hall, while servers Mike Kennedy dinner. 
and Lori Meiskey look on. 
Swedish meatballs, 


• 

Crown Royal
750ML 10.49 
Popov Vodka 
7.86 
,E &J Brandy
750ML5.99 
Fleshman Gin
1.75L8.95 
Bacardi Rum 
1.75 L 
11.48 
Clan MacGregor Scotch
1.75L 10.99 
v.o.
1.75L 
14.99 
Wolfschmidt Vodka
1.75L 
9.99 
Price 
iill

effective to Low Everyday v~ j ••
10/4/83 277-6805 Check Our Low, [ •
Prices -~·­
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
Budweiser 7.29 • Lowenbrau 24 Na Botti••-8.99 •
•
•
•
•
Bud Light 6-16 •
•
Budweiser or ¢ •
•
Bud Light. ____ Quart 76 
•
•
•
•
• 

I . ): 
KEGS • 
·~ OldStyle •• • 
•
•
Goebels 26 99 ••• 
Y2 Barrel_ __ 1 
•
• 
•
BUdv4 BarreL __ 22~00 •••• 
• 
Carlo Rossi4 L ____4.99 ••• •
• 
•
Riunite 75o ML_____ 2.69 •••
•
Inglenook 1.5 L •
•
Chabllsh, Rhine, 3 88 •• 
Richards Wild Rose, Burgundy________ 1• 69 •• • 
•· Irish Rose 750 ML_ ____ 1 •
• 
M&R Asti___________7.99 ••• •
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Friday, September 30, 1983 -page 6


ViewP-oint 
Credits for living off-campus 
Evc:ry Christmas, hundreds of Notre Dame: students take part in the urban plunge: experience. This is an expl·ric:nce in which the par-
T. Burke 
Just a thought 

tKlpants return to poverty striken areas of their home town and im­merse themselves in an alien way of life. I can relate to this lifestyle, you see, I live on Corby Blvd. 
Thl· decision to move off-campus plan·d me amongst about halfof the 
senior class and scattered members 
ofother classes. The decision threw 
me into a house already occupied by 
four different types of Insects and 
two species of rodents. I felt as if I 
was the intruder. 
But these friendly little crc:atures were no match for five or six roach bombs and a few strategically located mouse traps. After the fog cleared, we humans moved in. 
With most of my housemates in agreement, we decided to obtain two puppies that would grow in the camaraderie of our house, protect us, and, more realistically, provide a bit of entertainment. Well, I guess we didn't realize what kinds of neighbors we were up against. 

Within two weeks, One and Two,(their names respectively) were stolen from our front porch. It was a sad day in our house, but even sadder, what are we to do with the ten pound bag ofCycle 1? However, I'm sure when November rolls around and money is as scarce as an eighty degree day, the bag will quickly disappear. 
A profession that I'm sure many off-campus students will become very efficient in is moving. It is a given that over every break, our house will be broken into and looted. So what can we do about it? Nothing but empty the house ofany­thing that we wish to retain owner­ship of. Take out the stereos, guitars, 
television and ofcourse, the coveted HBO Showtime guide. For the motto of our neighborhood, as quoted from our fine 0-C newslet­ter, rings out loud and clear. "What's mine is mine and what's yours is 
mine." 
Another amazing fact about living 
off-campus is that attending class has 
become habit forming. You come to 
campus and what else is there to do 
but go to class. 
So why doesn't the University of­fer one credit to those students who select this lifestyle? I suggest that the urban plunge format be followed 
and at the end of this semester, we submit a paper detailing our ex­periences. An offer of this nature would encourage more students to move 0-C and thus the housing problem would be solved. Alas, the ease in dealing with university af­fairs. 
Becoming part of the South Bend community has provided an ex­posure to less than suburban living. To seek out, identify and destroy the many life forms that crawl from the woodwork has become a daily pastime. Locking the door and win­dows has crept back into routine, and cooking has provided more en­tertainment than food. But you can't beat offcampus living with a stick. 
Besides, how many dorms have an 
inverted martini glass painted on 
their front door. 

John Paul II and the U.S. Catholic 
The gap between Rome and the U.S. Cath­olic church is widening these days. Or at least the Pope seems to think so. 
Worried about the buffet-style attitude of 
U.S. Catholics, john Paul instructed several bishops to lay down the law on contraception, 
Keith Picher 
Profundity's demise 

abortion, pre-marital sex, homosexuality, divorce, and women priests. 
Spc:aking to them three weeks ago from his summer residence at Castel Gandolfo, the pontiff urged the leaders to speak out against these issues and organizations which support them. The Pope traditionally meets with the bishops every five years to talk about problems in their country. 
That john Paul chose sexuality as a topic is 
not surprising. The United States is a modern 
Sodom. That John Paul sees sexuality as 
America's worst moral problem, on the other 
hand, is a bit disturbing. 

Sexual morality is a difficult subject to teach. Some of Christianity's greatest theologians have had a myopic, ifnot warped, understanding of sexuality. Many Catholics, alienated by Paul's Humana.e Vitae, have decided to ignore the -old unmarried men when they speak about sex. Worried about this attitude, John Paul speaks out more and 
more while Americans listen less and less. 
Even if its teachings are correct and aut­horitatively binding, the Church should not continue to worry about sexual problems to the exclusion of more serious evils. 
If John Paul wants to be a better pontiff (literally, one who makes bridges) he must al­ter his vision of America and its problems as the bishops have. 
Their recent actions stand in sharp contrast to John Paul's. Last week several bishops 
protested plans to develop the MX. Their ac­
tions on behalf of peace have earned them 
world respect, and Bernardin, the Einstein 
Peace Prize. They have correctly identified 
the nuclear issue as the preeminent moral 
problem. 

The bishops are also beginning to think about capitalism and economic injustice. Though the Church has tended to criticize abuses, and not capitalism itself, many are beginning to feel that the system cannot exist without injustice in the actual world. The mat­
ter will be addressed in a future meeting ofthe 
U.S. bishops. 

And several U.S. Catholics are upset by America's militarism in the Third World. People in Latin America and Africa ask the United States for fishes, and we give them bombs, not stones. 
John Paul has had a tremendous influence on the world. His style and vigor have helped unite all Christians. What he cannot afford to do is alienate U.S. Catholics anymore. Why does John Paul hesitate to condemn govern­ments for their nuclear missiles and economic 
injustice, though he often speaks out against 
anyone who questions official teaching on 
authority and sexuality? 

His insistence that Jesus envisioned an all­
male priesthood is one such example. While 
there may be good reasons for not ordaining 
women (though I wish somebody would find 
one)John Paul cannot pretend to understand Jesus' thoughts on the matter, especially when the 1976 Pontifical Biblical Commission con­cluded it could find no biblical support for excluding women from the ordained priest­hood. 
But Jesus does criticize people who throw stones, fail to turn the other cheek, and live luxuriously. 
He also makes friends with prostitutes and, 
after the resurrection, entrusts a woman, not a 
man, with the Church's first task -proclaim­
ing the Good News of the Resurrection to the 
doubting men. 

We all love you, John Paul, hut some of us 
wish you'd open your eyes a bit wtder. 

P. 0. BoxQ  \  
Craft article To tiH 11ditor: David Dziedzic's marvelous article of Sep­tember 21 ima~inatively presented the plight of Christine Craft, the news anchor who has recently garnered attention for her resigna­tion from KMBC because of sex discrimina­tion. Despite Dziedzic's lack of sensitivity, insight, or accuracy, we must applaud his ef­forts to explain the matter to us. His article proves that there are some people who will never remain silent when given the oppor­tunity to parade their limitations. Bravo, David. Again and again, we hear arguments which attempt to ratonalalize sex discrimination. In his editorial, Dziedzic puts overwhelming em­pha.~is on Miss Craft's new-found fame. He points out her many t.v. appearances, and he even goes so far as to remind us that this woman (who won her lawsuit, hy the way) makes over S4,000.00 per lecture. Is this  invite him. It seems Mr. Dziedzic is more up­set that Miss Craft has "made it" and that he has not, than that she was wrong in her law­suit. The writer then states that the very nature of the visual media discriminated against her as a person, not as a woman. Thus, all people should pass the acid test ofphysical attractive­ness if they want to he on television. In response to this, I would simply point to Wal ter Cronkite or Roger Mudd: excellent newscasters both, hut by no means eye­catching (Do I detect a double standard?). The editor's st;~tement that "there are many inequities in the business of television news" is quite true. However, those who defend a flawed system on the rationale that "We can't do anything about it" are useless at best, but dangerous at worst. If people do not realize that spmeone who has been discriminated against is a t•ictim then who will stick up for us the next time our "packaged" society decides that any one ofus is no longer attractive? Why bother defending the oppressed? By Mr.  
ridiculous? Perhaps it is, but then so is a profl·ssional ballplayer when he makes mil­lions a year to·play a kid's game, or a convicted political conspirator when he gets thousands  Dziedzic's thinking, even when you're right, you're wrong. Fortunately for us, though, thinking of any kind seems to be in a short supply at the editor's office.  UCERPT FROM CARTER'S FltCHED /{lPD DEMTE  
to speak at a university foolish enough to  Timothy Eigo  PlAYBOOK  

Department Managers 

Ibe_-_Qbset:ver======= !~!!~!~~e~.~a~~ ..........David Dziedzic 
/lox fJ. Nt•tre I Jame. IN -16'5 '56 ( 1 I 'JJ13'J· SJOJ Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
Jhe Ohs('rl'l'r •~ lhl' indl-pl·ndl·nt new~paper puhli~ht:d lw tht: ~tudl'nl~ of the Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas \Tr~IIY ol Notre Dame du l.ac and Saini Mary·~ College It dm·s nol nnT~~ariiY reflect News Editor . .............. , . Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen till' pohul-~ ol the adnum~lration of either mslilution. The news is reported as ac News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suz<wm: i..a Croix cur;udv and as ohjlTII\TIY as po~sihle. l ·n~ignl·d l'ditoriab repre~l·nt the opinon ofa Saint Mary's"Editor . ......... :Arirte Molf<'M~i'siH Circulation Manager . ............. Mark Miotto majont.v ol the hhtorial H;1anl <:ornml·nlarie~. leHer~. and the lnsidl· Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltou System Manager ............... Kevin Williams lilt"\"!(·~~ ol thl"lr author~ ( .olurnn ~race is avallahk to all member~ oflhe n1mmuni1v. 
Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower .\j}()rts Editor... ..\lichael Sullivan
.111• IIIH" lr(T expn·s~1on of varnng opmions on campus. lhrough kllt:rs. is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 



Kiddie Korps: 
Freshmen and sophomores make 
future bright at wide out positions 

By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 
So here you are in the ninth, Two men out and three men on. Nowhere to look but inside Where we all respond to pressure. 
While Billy Joel certainly didn't have the Notre Dame football team on his mind when he wrote these lyrics, they certainly are ap­propriate words for Coach Gerry Faust and his Fighting Irish this week. Combine the facts that the Irish have stumbled to a 1-2 start, that the sidelines have been piling up with injured players, and that Colorado seems rejuvenated with a 2-1 start and it seems the Irish may have their hands full when they come onto Folsom Field in Boulder tomorrow for a 2:30p.m. EST kickoff. 
First ofall, the Irish desperately need a win to keep their slim hopes ofa bowl bid alive. Following losses to Michigan State and Miami, Faust and his players have come under fire 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports writer 
"I think it depends on the attitude ofeach one of the young men as to how far they will go and tiow far they will help Notre Dame go," explains Notre Dame receivers coach Mike Stock. 
The youngmen that Stockspeaks so highly ofare freshmen Alonzo Jefferson and Alvin Miller, and sophomores Mike Haywood and Milt Jackson.' These four men as a group epitomize the strength ofGerry Faust's last two raids of the high school gridirons. 
The highlights ofAlvin Miller's high school 
career in Kirkwood, Missouri have been men-· 
tioned so many times that they need not be :~ 
repeated here. But it is enough to say that this Tony 
Hunter-like receiver possesses all the talent and 
ability needed to join the All-American company of 
Jim Seymour,Jack Snow, Tom Gatewood, and Pete 
Demmerle before he concludes his career at Notre 
Dame. 
"Alvin has the innate tools and skills necessary for ultimate stardom," says Stock. "He's right now fmding his way into the system. He's just right now feeling comfortable with the things he's asked to do." "Given more time and experience, and keeping his spirits and confidence up, I think he has the chance to be just a tremendous receiver at Notre Dame." 
Miller had his finest game ofhis young car•~er in the "Saturday Night Massacre" at Miami last week. Although he caught only one pass for 25 yards, signs ofhis potential abounded. 
"Basically I want to, day to day, get better, and learn a little bit more," says Miller. "As the weeks go on, I feel myself improving, and I'm happy with myself improving, but I'll never be satisfied with myself." 
Perhaps the reason why Miller's self-imposed performance standards are high is because so much is expected ofhim. Like Herschel Walker, Marcus DuPree, and Eric Dickerson, Alvin Miller is aParade Magazine Prep Player ofthe Year selec­tion. 
"I guess there's a lot oftalent in us all but I guess it is a matter ofposition," comments the freshman. "I really don't feel any extra pressure at all. The on­ly pressure on me is from myself." 
Another freshman making waves on the depth chart is Alonzo Jefferson. However, one look at him is enough to tell you that he does not fit the, prototype image ofa receiver like Miller does. On­ly 5-9 and I72 pounds, it is a wonder that he can catch the ball at all. But to borrow a line from Mick Jagger, Jefferson is practiced in the art ofdecep­tion. 
"Often times a receiver's height is a disad­
vantage, often times it is not," says Stock. "I think in 
his case, he uses his tools to the utmost." 
Jefferson sees the situation the same way. 
"I think my size is an advantage at times,'~ Jeffer­
son explains. "It helps in terms ofgetting to spots 
where guys can't see me." 
Size aside, Jefferson can catch a football. 
However, despite his good early performances, he 
see KIDS, page 8 


COLORADO September 30, 1983 -page 8 
Your TV Guide 
When the Irish line up on offense 

NOTRE DAME OFFENSE COLORADO DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL LT 93 VInce Rafferty 6-4 245 Sr. SE 24 Joe Howard 5-9 171 Jr. 92 Chuck Mikel 6·2 225 Sr. 
3 Alonzo Jefferson 5-9 172 Fr. NG 91 Don Muncie 6-2 220 Jr. QT 65 GregGollc 6-7 2S3 Sr. 97 Chuck Hill 6-0 220 Jr. 72 John Askm 6-6 261 Fr. RT 9S George Smith S-3 259 Jr. QG 54 Tim Scannell 6-4 270 So. 88 Scott Martin 6-5 235 Sr. 73 Jerry We1nle 6-3 248 Sr LB 54 Sandy 
c S3 Mike Kelley S-5 269 Jr. Armstrong 6-1 22S Sr. 62 Ron Plantz 6-4 266 So. 50 Dan McMillen 6-4 220 So. SG 79 Nell Maune 6-5 278 Sr. LB 55 Don Fairbanks 6-3 222 So. 53 Tom Doerger 6-5 272 So 39 Tim Lancelot 6-1 217 So. ST 75 Larry Williams 6-6 284 Jr. LB 51 Terry Irvin S-1 203 Sr. 
' . \ 

76 M1ke Pernno 6-5 271 So. 45 MartyCone 5-11 205 Sr. TE 82 Mark Bavaro S-4 246 So. LB 52 Wayne Carroll S-3 200 Jr. 85 Bnan Behmer 6-6 218 Jr. 81 Dave Alderson 6-2 221 Sr. QB 5 Blair Klel S-1 20S Sr. LC 44 Clyde Riggins 5-10 183 Sr. 7 Steve Beuerle1n 6-3 195 Fr. 29 Solomon Wilcots 5-11 170 So. FB 32 Chris Smith 6-2 231 Jr. ss 31 Jeff Donaldsotl S-4 214 Sr. 
' 

35 Mark Brooks 6-3 228 Jr. 37 Tony Rettig 5-9 190 Sr. TB 20 Allen Pinkett 5-9 184 So. WS 7 KentDavls 6-2 2S1 Jr. 33 H1awatha Fran-10 John Nairn 6-1 170 Fr. 
Joe Howard 
cisco 5-10 185 Fr. RC 22 VIctor Scott 5-10 192 Sr. FL S Milt Jackson 6-0 181 So. 20 Alvin Rubalcaba 5-9 175 Jr. 
Split end 
1 M1ke Haywood 5-11 176 So. p 34 Allan Braun 6-2 190 Jr. K 4 Mike Johnston 5-11 185 Sr. 25 Dave Deline 6-0 155 Fr. 8 John Carney 5-10 170 Fr. 
When the Buffs • • • 
continued from page 7 "And his speed is very deceptive bn
I i ne up on offense 

stride. He covers a lot ofground ne.catJsw.t has not enjoyed the team's 1-2 start. runs," concludes Stock. 
"It has been frustrating for me because I have not just asjackson appears to be comi been able to contribute to the team as much as I would will be forced to sit out due to a knee like to. a 16-yacd completion against Miami. He 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE COLORADO OFFENSE E 55 MlkeGollc S-5 251 Jr. POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL 
"I am shocked about the team's slow start, but we do doubtful for the Colorado game. 56 Robert Banks 6-5 235 Fr. SE 5 Loy Alexander 5-11 173 So. have a good football team, and there are a lot oft good For Mike Haywood, this season has FT n Tim Marshall S-4 257 Jr. 89 Hugo Nevarez 5-11 186 So. players here. I enjoy watching talent, but I am after disappointment. He has been forced to 
94 Mike Gnff1n 6-4 235 Fr. LT·...., n Mike S}IIVftter 6-3 263' Sr. 
some of the glory I had in high school. I think all the slide to 1-2 from the sidelines due to at
NT 38 Jon Autry S-2 246 Sr. 74 Randy Hogbin 6-3 257 Sr. 96 Wally Kleme 6-8 272 Fr. LG S3 Junior Ill 6-1 254 Jr. 
freshmen all.n Monday in practice, Haywood reinjured CT 78 MlkeGann 6-5 256 Jr. 75 Craig Beverly 6·0 245 Sr. Also competingfor their share ofthe glory ace sopho­but he will supposedly be ready for acti( 92 Greg Dmgens 6-5 257 So. c S1 Steve Heron 6-2 225 Sr. more roommates Milt jackson and Mike Haywood. The ternoon. 
LB 37 Rick Naylor S-3 227 Sr. 57 Joe McCreary 6-4 265 Fr. 
RG two men are similar in many ways. Their physical at­"Mike Haywood has good speed, quit
43 R1ck D1Bernardo 6-3 228 So. S4 Shaun Beard s-o 250 Jr. LB 58 Tony Furjanlc S-2 231 So. 73 Derek Weisner 6-5 240 Sr. tributes are almost identical. Not only do they both aggressive hard-nosed player who is ve 47 Tom Murphy 6-2 219 Sr. RT 70 John Firm S-1 266 Sr. hover around six feet, but both weigh 170 pounds and receiver as well as a tough blocker-a1 79 Pat Ryan
LB 49 Mike Kovaleski 6-2 210 Fr. 6-3 259 Fr. possess the speed and hands needed to excel at their player," comments Stock. 
237 Jr TE S-3

87 Joe Bars 6-5 87 Dave Hestera 242 Sr. Only on the job a few weeks, Stock h 
6-4 Sr. positions.
CB 30 Stacey Toran 206 80 Jon Embree 6-3 204 Fr. 12 Troy W1lson 5-11 170 Fr. QB 13 Steve Vogel S-4 202 Jr. jackson is the startingsplit end and has seen far more ofthese four "kids" already to know that CB 40 Pat Ballage 6-2 197 So. 6 Derek Marshall 6-2 190 So. playing time than his roomie. However that is not to say are promtsmg. "They all run de<.·ent r 48 John Mosley 6-1 248 Sr FB 48 Lee Rouson 6-2 201 Jr. 
that his first few games have been consistent. all can run with the ball after they catd 
ss 34 Daane Spiel-38 Guy Egg1ng 5-11 210 Sr. 
Against Purdue he dropped a sure touchdown pass always the case with every receiver.
maker S·1 19S Sr. HB 2S Chris Mclemore S-1 211 So. 16 Dan Corsaro 5·11 185 So 33 Darryl Johnson 5-5 180 Jr. 
offa flea flicker, and versus Michigan State he could not "I think the potential is greater now, FS 9 Chris Brown S-1 19S Sr. WR 8 Ron Brown s-o 182 So. hold on to a couple easy catches. Last Saturday he bers, than ever before, compared to the 23 Steve Lawrence 6-0 180 Fr. 4 Tony Armstrong 5-8 154 Jr. 
rebounded strong with a four-catch effort against the past. And I made that statement bei 
p 5 Blair Klel S-1 206 Sr. K 3 Tom Field s-o 175 Sr. 
Miami. "I would not say that unless I though
1 0 Dave Meadows 5·11 180 Sr. 18 Larry Eckel 6-0 215 Jr. 
"He seems to drop the ones he can catch and catch them," he continues. "I think they have.11 the ones that nobody even has a chance for. His inex· It's just a matter ofconsistency, efficienq perience shows there," says Stock. to suceed." 

"Ofall the people I've had a chance to coach at South Against Colorado tomorrow, Irish cQ Bend in the past, he's the most acrobatic receiver I've both will be looking for that hunger, a I seen. been lacking as oflate. 
continued from page 7 Ifthe game is close, it may come doVI 
kickers -a point that doesn't escape F1 has been suspect against the pass this season will have very disappointed in our kicking game h its hands full. "Our defense has to come up with the big Miami with two field goals blocked and play," says Faust. "Last week, we had two third-and-goal missed," states Faust. "We must shore u situations, and could not stop Miami." Changes have our game." On the other hand, Coloradi been made to try to ftx the situation, as Tim Marshall cellent talents ofkicker Tom Field, whc moves up to the flip tackle spot, replacing Eric Dorsey. field goals in a game on two separate oc Marshall has eleven tackles this season, but five ofthose "Colorado is an excellent football tel have been for losses. Hopefully, he will help an ailing talented team," according to Faust. "Th pass rush, which has recorded only three sacks all year. against us with all the confidence in the 
Meanwhile, the Colorado defense has been giving up must be prepared to play an excellent f plenty ofyardage via the pass as well, despite the fine Indeed, Faust and the Irish will have 1 play ofAll-America cornerback Victor Scott. Ofcourse, against the wall tomorrow afternoon. A
Victor Scott many opponents have been forced to throw against would stoke the furnaces ofIrish fans, v All-America Candidate 
Colorado because ofthe Buffs' impressive rushing boiling over due to the slow start. A wit defense, which has given up..Joss,than one hundred hand, could put the Irish back on the riJ
Cornerback 

yards per game. That statistic may be misleading, pressure is on the Notre Dame players, though, because the Buffaloes have leaped to some ear­have to look inside themselves to see h1 ly leads, forcing their opponents to catch up by passing. respond. 

-----------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------­
-


COLORADO 
c~.,.., 

Friday, September 30, 1983 · page 9 
Coming home Mike Gann, trying to overcomE~ an injury and position shifts, is ready to hei(J ND improve 
four last fall. 
and we 
are already on the other track. The they will they will 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
Three years ago, when Mike Gann was looking to go to college, he was being recruited by a number of quality schools including Nebraska and this week's Irish opponent, Colorado. Gann, however, chose Notre Dame because he liked the campus, he believed that he would receive a quality education and, at the same time, have a chance to become a part ofthe rich tradition of Notre Dame football. 
Now in his junior year, the 6-5, 246-pound 

Lakewood, Colorado native still believes he has made 
the right choice. 
As a member ofthe Notre Dame football team, Gann 

is in his second season as a starteron the defensive line. 
Gann started his Notre Dame career in 1981 and earned a monogram while seeing the most playing time ofany ofthe otherfreshman defensive linemen. He saw action in eight games while working mainly at the right end spot. In his top performance ofthat year, replacing an injured Kevin Griffith, Gann played 24 minutes against Air Force and collected eight tackles. He also saw ten minutes ofaction against Miami and was 
credited with three stops. 
His sophomore year, 1982, saw him change posi­tions. This time Gann earned a starting role at flip tackle. He started nine games and had played more minutes than any other defensive lineman until a knee injury against PennState brought his season to a close. Despite missing the last two games, however, Gann finished the season with 41 tackles and five sacks totalling 33 yards in losses. His top effort earned him 10 stops against Oregon. 
The 1983 season has once again brought about a 

change ofposition for Gann. He has moved down the 
line from flip tackle to his new slot at contain tackle -a 
change that he is still adjusting to. · 
"It's been kind oftough for me," says Gann. "It's been 

a real big change from flip tackle, because I was so free 
to do what I wanted to do. I could go inside, go outside, 
and change up things, but this year I just have to play the 
position. So far this season I haven't played to where I 
think I should be. I'm just right now trying to get used to 
it." 
The job of the contain tackle is one.ofvast respon­sibility, as Irish defensive tackle coachJay Robertson explains. "He is responsible for destroyingthe run ifit is in his direction, for pursuit ifthe play is away from him, as well as for the reverse, counters, and cutback plays, depending on the defensive alig~ment. And, ofcourse, he's responsible for rushing the passer." 
The knee injury in the Penn State game and the subse­

quent surgerycaused Gann to miss spring contact work 
in order to ensure proper healing for this season. 
Now, with the season in full swing, and after a lot of 

exercise and treatment, the knee does not seem to be 
causing him any problems. "Ittook a while to get it back 
to strength," he said. "I felt a little scared at the begin­
ning playing out there with it. It's a different feeling 
mentally, but I've kind ofgotten over that now. It's OK" 
His coach, too, likes to consider the knee healed and 

tries not to belabor the point. "We try to ignore it and 
not make it a factor," says Robertson. "Unless it's 
bothering him, we don't even ask about it. Ifyou devote 
too much attention to it, you're going to make him sort 
ofcautious when he doesn't have to be. As far as we're 
concerned, it's fully healed." 
Last year Gann was a noticeable force on the defensive squad. This year, however, his play has been rather inconsistent, and he himselflooks for more im­provement. "I really haven't played well this season, and I really feel bad right now," he admits. "I feel ready everytime, but things just don't seem to happen during the game. Getting used to my position is a big factor. It will take time. (Bob) Clasby played it last year and he was a good player. I'm just tryingto understand how he did it." 
His performance has not escaped the watchful eye of 

his coach, and, while Robertson agrees with Gann, he 
adds an important positive note as well. "Mike played 
well against Purdue and it could have been a big game, 
but because ofthe circumstances, we rotated a lot of 
people and he didn't play as much. Against Michigan 
State he didn't play poorly, but he didn't dominate like a 
man ofhis abilities should. Miami was his best effort of 
the year so far," he says. "He did thingsyou have to do to 
be dominant, but because ofthe way things developed, 
he wasn't in a position to make the big play. 
"Mike has great and awesome physical potential and I 

think he's very serious in working hard to reach that 
potential. His potential is unlimited, but he must have 
very high expectations and standards for what he con­
siders to be his level ofplay. He can be very good. He 
wants too. It's just a matter oflearning how;-and,that 
comes with maturity. Miami may have been a pivotal 
game for him. Ifhe continues to make the effort, he will 
begin to dominate -and he has to." 
To work toward achieving potential and to become a good player one has to prepare both mentally and physically, and Gann is no exception. 
"I try to stay in the best shape I can by running, Ufting and practicing hard," Gann says. "A lot ofit is mental too, though. You have to try to stay mentally readyfor a game. I think everybody is ready physically, the t:xtra comes from being ready mentally." 
Gann feels that aside from being tall, quick, and agile 
-three strengths his coach points out about him ­
being mentally ready is probably his strongest point. 
"My best asset is my mind," says Gann. "The ft:ar of 
not playing well motivates me. I think just struggling 
not play bad, the will to want to perform well, is really a 
big thing. I take it personal when I perform bad." 
This week when the Irish travel to Colorado to take 
on the Buffaloes, Gann will be returning to within 35 
miles ofwhere he grew up and played high school foot­
ball. Going "home" is something he's looking forward 
to, but he feels no immediate pressure on himsdfbe­
cause he'll be in front ofmany friends. 
"I'm excited about going to Colorado," Gann says, "but I don't feel any extra pressure about going back and playing. I do feel extra pressure just trying to get my first good game and get my season rolling. I'm throwing the first three games aside. I'm just going to start over. 
MikeGann Contain tackle 
There's still time." 
With another year still to go after this one, Gann isn't worrying too much about future football plans, just those at Notre Dame. "I have no plans right now. I just want to play well here," he says. "I've been through so many injuries that I can't really look into the future. I can't count onsomethinglike that, and have it fall down because ofinjury." 
Iffootball doesn't prove successful after college, 
Gann is looking forward to utilizinghis marketing skills. 
"My dad is starting a new airline in Florida, and I might 
be able to work for him." 
Putting everything aside, at this point, however, one 
ofGann's major concerns is the success ofthe 1983 
season. Having already suffered two losses in just three 
games, many questions have arisen as to why, and Gann 
finds no particular answer to pinpoint anythingdefmite. 
"Everybody tries to analyze what the problem is," he 
says, "but you come up with a lot ofdifferent answers. 
No one gives one solid answer or reason behind it. I 
don't know ifthere is one reason behind it. I think it's a 
mixture ofthings-some motivation problems, maybe 
-and I think we can iron them out." 
IfGann's teammates approach things with the same diligence as he does, then there should be little problem with ironing them out. 

. j 
'. 

COLORADO Friday, September 30, 1983 ·page 10 
NOTRE DAME vs. COLORADO 






THE STATISTICS
THE GAME 

GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Colorado Buffaloes 
ND OPP RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
SITE: Folsom Field (51 ,941 ) TIME: 2:30p.m. EST; Saturday, Oct. I, 1983 TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1303 939 Howard 3 10 115 11.5 1 24 Total Plays 249 198 Pinkett 3 9 67 7.4 0 14 Yards per Play 5.2 4.7 Jackson 3 6 138 23.0 0 61 

Yards per Game 434.3 313.0 Bell 3 6 65 10.8 1 23 1V-RADIO: WNDU-1V(Ch. 16) PENAL TIES· YARDS 25-215 17-156 Bavaro 3 5 52 10.4 2 17 JeffJeffers and Jack Nolan FUMBLES-LOST 6-2 7-5 Sm~h 3 4 34 8.5 0 16 

TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 68 49 Favor~e 2 3 45 15.0 0 18 By Rushing 36 15 Jefferson 3 2 32 16.0 0 16 By Passing 28 29 Miller 3 1 25 25.0 0 25 
Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 

By Penalty 4 5 Williams 2 1 6 6.0 0 6 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 22-54 15-43 Percentage .407 .349 NOTRE DAME 3 47 579 12.3 4 61 
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
9 am. Sunday WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) 

POSSESSION TIME 96'01 83•59 OPPONENTS 3 56 652 11.6 5 81 Minutes per Game 32·00 28•00 DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK 
NO YDS AVG TO LG
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 

Kovaleski 23 2-4 2 1 0 10 55 5.5 0 13 Fuqanic 20 1-6 0 0 0
Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
WNDU-AM I 500 

Naylor 17 0-0 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME 10 55 5.5 0 13 Johnson 17 2-2 2 ,D 0 
OPPONENTS 7 24 3.4 0 8 Toran 16 0-0 0 0 0
SERIES: First-ever meeting 
.,
Golic 15 3-8 1 0 Brown 14 1-1 2 0 0 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, Colorado unranked 
.:IUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG Marshall 11 5-13 1 1 0 Pinkett 3 55 277 5.0 35 Autry 9 1-2 0 1 0 Bell 3 33 163 4.9 4 50 
TICKETS: Game is sold out 
Ball age 9 0-0 0 0 0 ..Smith 3 21 114 5.4 0 18 Gann 8 1-5 0 0 0 Francisco 2 9 81 9.0 0 33 
Din gens 8 1-2 1 0 0 Grooms 1 2 33 16.5 0 25 
Mosley 8 1-1 0 0 0

THE SCHEDULE 
Murphy 6 0-0 0 0 0 Abraham 1 4 14 3.5 1 10 
Brooks 3 8 33 4.1 0 7 
McCabe 4 0-0 0 0 0 Carter 1 2 9 4.5 0 9 
Kleine 4 0-0 0 0 0
NOTRE DAME COLORADO 
Howard Butler 4 0-0 0 0 0
3 1 6 6.0 0 6

SEPT. 10 def. Purdue, '52-6 SEPT. 10 lost to MSU, 23-17 
Spielmaker 4 0·0 0 0 0Kiel 3 12 5 0.4 0 7 
Dorsey 3 0-0 0 0 0 Corsaro 3 0-0 0 0 0 
SEPT. 17 lost to MSll, 28-23 SEPT. I 7 def. Colorado St., 31-3 
Bauerlein 2 8 -11 -1.4 0 8 
SEPT. 24 lost to Miami( Fla.), 20-0 SEPT. 24 def. Oregon St., 38-14 
Banks 3 0-0 0 0 0NO 3 155 724 4.7 6 50
OCT. I at Colorado OCT. I NOTRE DAME 
DiBernardo 2 0-0 0 0 0OPP 3 103 287 2.8 2 34
OCT. Hat South Carolina OCT. 8 MISSOURI 
Lawrence 2 0-0 1 1 0 PASSING G NO co PCT INT YDS TO Wilson 1 0-0 0 0 0 Miller 1 0-0 0 0 0 
OCT. I S Army at Meadowlands OCT. I 5 at Iowa State 
OCT. 22 SOUTHERN CAL OCT. 22 at Nebraska 
3 66 33 .500 5 417 4 Abraham 1 0-0 0 0 0
OCT. 29 NAVY OCT. 29 OKLAHOMA STATE 
2 26 14 .538 0 162 0 Francisco 1 0-0 0 0 0 NOV. S Pln'SBURGH NOV. 5 at Kansas 
1 2 0 .000 0 0 0 Griffin 0-0 0 0 0 
NOV. 12 at Penn State NOV. 12 at Oklahoma 
.500 5 579 4 NOTRE DAME 215 18-44 10 5 0
NOV. 19 AIR FORCE NOV. 19 KANSAS STATE 
.589 5 652 5 OPPONENTS 297 16-42 26 2 2 




PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 

piled as to how each person does against  
the spread. In other words, it is not enough to pick the winner of a given  Louie Somogyi Sports Writer  Mike Sullivan Sports Editor  Jane Healey Asst. Sports Editor  Will Hare Sports Writer  David Dziedzic Editor-in-Chief  Steve Labate Sports Writer  Rich Hunter Guest Celebrity  Bridget Gordon Random Student  
game.  The  person  must  pick  a  winner  24-17  23-18  11-20  21-20  19-22  16-25  t6-25  20-21  
given the underdog points.  .535  .561  .512  .512  .463  .3911  .3911  .439  
Arizona over CAUFORNIA by I0  Wildcats  Wildcats  Wildcats  Bears  Wildcats  Bears  Wildcats  Wildcats  
Miami over DUKE by 1.2  Hurricanes  Devils  Devils  Devils  Hurricanes  Devils  Hurricanes  Devils  
Boston College over TEMPLE by 10  Eagles  Owls  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  
WEST VIRGINIA over Pittsburgh by 6  Panthers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Panthers  Panthers  Mountaineers  Panthers  Mountaineers  
Iowa over ILUNOIS by 5  lllini  Hawkeyes  Hawkeyes  Hawkeyes  Haw keyes  Hawkeyes  Hawkeyes  Illini  
Wis<:onsin over NORTHWESTERN by 1.2  Badgers  Wildcats  Badgers  Badgers  Wildcats  Badgers  Badgers  Badgers  
AUBlJRN over Florida Stale by 5. '5  Seminoles  Eagles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  
UCLA over Brigham Young by 5  Cougars  Cougars  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Cougars  Cougars  Cougars  
Southern Cal over SOUTH CAROUNA by 8  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  
TEXAS TECH even with Texas A&M  Raiders  Raiders  Raiders  Raiders  Aggies  ,(•'Raiders  Aggies  Aggics  
L'ill over Florida by 2. '5  Tigers  Tigers  Gators  G;nors .  nt ~~.w,r,~;omcn  Ti~ers  Gators  Gators  
ARIZONA STATE over Stanford by 14.5  Cardinal  Devils  Devils  Cardinal  Cardinal  Devils  Devils  Devils  
Penn State over RUTGERS by 12  Lions  Lions  Knights  Lions  Lions  Knights  Lions  Lions  
Notre Dame over COLORADO by 8  Irish  Irish  Buffaloes  Buffaloes  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  


------------~----------------------------------­


Showcase 
Friday, September 30, 1983 -page 11 
letters to a lonely god 
A true confession 
a wound that has never healed: an

by Rev. Robert Griffin 
T
ancient sin that nags at the con­features columnist science as though it could never be forgiven. Maybe a fallen-away he new confessionals in Sacred However, the consequencesofsin returns to the practice offaith, and Heart Church are a very visible is guilt. The Church is concerned the parable ofthe prodigal son is reminder that the Catholic Church about guilt, because guilt is sacramentally re-enacted. Maybe a is in the business of the forgiveness destructive. What does a Christian homosexual comes in, full ofpain ofsins. The confessionals are com­do with his guilt. A twenty-year old and distrust, because he's not sure fortable for the priest to use, so I gets in a habit ofsin: stealing, that there's a place for him here. would presume that they are com­dealing, boozing, or sex. Or maybe Maybe a teen-ager, scarcely old fortable for the Catholics who come his lapses show up as one-shotdeals: enough to drive, wants to unload the 
to kneel there, leaving lots ofspace a night oflechery here, a bout of guilt that accompanies abortion. 
as elbow room: the penitent doesn't drunkenness there, one or two Apriest could miss a lot lfhe were 
have to know lfthe priest has eaten betrayals that hurt his parents or inattentive: the most innocuous­
onions at dinner. I trust that those lose him a friend. sounding statement could slip by walls keep the sound in. A confes­"Guilt," the young man may insist, quietly like the tip ofan iceberg 
sional that can't keep its secrets is "is a private matter that I can take up whose destructiveness is below the more wicked and treacherous than with God." Sometimes that's like water line. the town gossip, and should be using a home remedy when you The priest does not have magic at 
publicly burned. Some confessionals need an operation. Some sinners his absolving fmgertips. However, need professional help. Sometimes I've knelt often enough on the sin· 
are so poorly built that I wouldn't molehills turn into mountains be­ner's side ofthe screen to realize
tell my sins in them, and I wouldn't cause the rubbish piles up. that miracles ofpeace are possible.
encourage anyone else to confess 
On a pleasant autumn evening, I Confession, ofcourse, is a Catholicthere. A church that takes the sacra­reluctantly leave dinner to go into form ofgrace. When, on my own, Iment of reconciliation seriously the confessional. I'm human enough try to negotiate a deal with God, set­should set aside a room that is truly not to want to find a long line of tling my sins, the silence fromprivate. Sacred Heart Chuch has penitents waiting, but pastoral heaven frightens me, because I need been offering the grace offorgive­
enough to be glad that I've been or­the discipline ofritual. Later, I am ness for over a hundred years. It is a dained in a profession that exists to uneasy with the Eucharist, as though
center ofworship where God's love 
offer God's mercy. God's Son, the I were attending a formal dinner af. 
for man is worthily celebrated. 
Lamb in Whom the Father delighted, ter forgetting to shave. A Catholic 
The modern Catholic may ask: shed His blood for the remission of will be reverent toward the sacra­why does the Church have this han­sin. I am a minister bringing home ment, lfhe has experiencedits peace gup with sin, tampering with the souls to the Covenant. I am em­when peace with heaven seemed es­space in a lovely old building, so that powered by the Church to extend sential priests may sit comfortably while pardon and peace. No other institu­I am always happy on leaving the hearing ofevil? In answer, I would tion on earth can do as much for confessional. The world looks dlf­point out that evil is not particularly souls. ferent; it seems less intense, with interesting to a priest. Uttle sins are I listen to the people who come fewer possibilities ofbirth and boring and big sins are saddening, in. They're better Catholics than I death. Outside the church, I meet a like a steady diet oflow-class am, more faithful to this sacrament student who makes a pleasant joke movies; and the priest has heard than the priest who gives them ab­when I tell him where I've been. He about them a thousand times before. solution. I try to find words that will doesn't realize how serious confes­The devil is dull, his works are dull, make them mindful ofChrist. He is sions seem to me. I can't tell him and his pomp is silly. The devil, lfhe the one who blesses them now, and how happy I feel because the Holy weren't so tricky, should be wearing earned their redemption. Ghost has been gracious when I a dunce cap. Maybe someone is suffering from asked His help. 
Hogs, Vermin and Studs carry on the tradition 
bit, all regular season games are played before the Oc·

by Evan Farley _
tober break. An amazingfacet ofthis intramuralsport(besidesthe

features staff writer 
D
fact that students participate in this obviously dan­isturbing the tranquility ofa cool, autumn week~ gerous competiton with no hope ofnetwork TV night is the din ofscreachingvoices and loud, bois· coverage)is its rarity among othercolleges. Other than terous cheers. At first, it seems as lfthe mighty Fightin' Notre Dame, Harvard, Yale and the Service Academies Irish are practicing, but upon closer inspection an are some ofthe only other colleges that participate in entirely different picture comes into focus. The players this sport. belong to the men's interhallleague, composed ofstu· Beingone ofthe few schools, and possibly the first, to dents from every male dorm and evenfrom offcampus. engage in full contact intramural football seems to have This strange breed ofweekend warriors brave the bred in the student population a pride not exhibited in hazards offull contact football in the pursuit ofhonor many schools for their varsity sports. Student support and fame for their halls and teams. for their hall teams has beenspectacular, as exemplified 
lnterhall football was initiated many decades ago by by the fact that in a recent championship game, close to Knute Rockne as a way for more students to participate one thousand fans congregated in Rockne Stadium and in the sport that made our school famous. New legends rooted for non-varsity's best. 
began and new names sprang up so that talk of the Once a team makes it to the championshipsand wins 
Fightin' Irish, the Trojans, and the Nittany Uons has that last game, what do they get for their troubles? Well, 
sometimes been drownded by talk ofsuch teams as the this is not the Super Bowl so the only rings and stars 
Hogs, Big Red, the Vermin, and the Studs. Students had they may receive will be the onescircling their heads af. 
found a new way to relieve themselves ofthe strain of ter a jarringimpact. This is not to say that the deed goes 
being a Domer while at the same time vicariously unrewarded, though. Each member of the champion­
following in the footsteps ofNotre Dame's greatest. ship team is awarded a certificate stating that he had 
Over the years, the league was divided into two cori· participated on the winning team. Also, and more aes· ferences: the North and the South. The close proximity thetically appeasing, is a commemorative jacket issued ofthe dorms to their competitors gave rise to great to each member ofthe championship squad bearinghis rivalries: Dillon and Alumni, Stanford and Keenen, hall's name and the year they were No. 1. Grace and Planner. Can the football heritege ofour school be so 
Although the system did lead to great competitive engraved into the hearts and souls of:Notre Dame stu­spirit between the dorms, problems developed. These dents as to make them so fervently seek to create their problems stemmed from the fact that the more pop­own private glory on the gridiron ofStepan Field? Ob· ulated halls (and therefore usually ones with stronger viously so. From its humble beginnings duriii.g the teams) were grouped into the same divisions as the Rockne era to the tremendous enthusiasm generated smaller halls, tending to lead to an unsightly endfor the for it today, full contact intramural football has made smaller halls. In order to re-align the balance ofpower, heroes out ofengineers, accountants, English majors the halls are now grouped into three divisions -the and physicists and inspired others to perform deeds Parseghian, the Rockne, and the Leahy -all arranged comparable to NFL greats. There seems to be no new by the sizes of the dorms~he playoffs now consist of horizons for our game to reach, but ...hey women, are two teams from each division, with two ofthe teams you listening out there? being randomly picked for a first round bye. Also, in or· der to prevent these "men ofsteel'' from rusting a little Evan Farley is a freshman from Elmhurst NY. 
•MUSIC 
The first Faculy Organ Recital, sponsored by the Notre Dame Departmment ofMusic, is scheduled to grace Sacred Heart Church this weekend. Faculty member and University OrganistCraig). Cramer will perform, among other pieces, "Les Corps Glorieux" by Olivier Messiaen and two chorale preludes by Bach beginning at 8 
p.m. Sunday. For further informaton, contact Eric Kuehner at 239­6201. 
The Elkhart County Symphony Association is also opening its 
season, with the annual Pops Concert to be held in Pierre Moran Hall 
tomorrow night beginning at 9:15. The concert wlll highlight the 
melodies ofsuch great musicians at Henry Mancini, Johann Stt:auss 
and john Philip Sousa. Cabaret seating, champagne, refreshments 
and after-the-concert dancing to the music ofDaybreak are in­
cluded. Tickets are available by calling 239-1087. 
The distinguished father-son, plano-violin duo ofjoseph and 
Ralph Evans will perform Sunday at 3 p.m. at the Northside Recital 
Hall on the Indiana University at South Bend campus. The two have 
pedormed in music centers throughout Europe and the United 
Statt~S and their music has been described as being impressively 
sensitive in the dialogue between the violin and plano. 
The Goshen College Artists Seriesis also contributing to this musi­cal weekend with a performance by theJames Tatum Trio Plus, a Detriot-based jazz group which the Michigan Chronicle has called part of"the avant t garde on the jazzscene." The group, which plays both its own compositionsand well-known jazz classics, will appear on the Umble Center stage tonight and Saturday night at 8. 
Johnny Cash comes to the Holiday Star Theatre this weekend, withJune Carter and The Great Eighties/B. Performances are on Saturday, beginning at 7 and 10:30 p.m., and Sunday, beginning at 4 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets are S12.95. 
•DANCE 
Tonight, as the culminationoftheStudent Union-sponsored Mini­
MASH Wee~ the Rosie'sSalooA.O~ w.illtake place at Chautauqua, 
starting at 9 p.m. Wear your f:.tvorite MASH garb and bring $1 for ad­
mission. 

•AR'f -.q; "· :~-....~··:}' 
Tite Student 1Ka.1Viop 'tra~EX~J)ti~l:>n oftheNational As­sociation ofSchoolsofAl't and Destgn eeMinues at the galleries of the Moreau Fine Arts Building. The show,whichfeatures a variety of works by 68 Students fl'mlll6 tliK'riil atU.t:ollegd, including St. Mary's, wiA:l be on display untii'(Xt(!iber 1'i. 
•MOVIES 
This week's Engineering Auditorium feature, sponsored by Abiogenesis, is Monty Python's "The Life ofBrian," starring Graham Chapman, john Cleese, Terry Gilliam and Eric Idle. The film is a daring comedy about a man, .Brian, born a short distance from and about the same time as jesus Christ. Throughout his life, he is con­tlnu~Lily mistaken for the Messiah. Brian grows up, takes a job as a vendor at the Roman games and becomes involved in a leftist ter­rorist organization devoted to the destruction ofthe entire Roman Empire. Showtime is 7, 9, and 11 p.m., both Friday and Saturday. Ad· missiion is $1. 
The Friday Night Film Series is sponsoring"Scenic Route," a 1979 
U.S. picture, in the Annenburg tonight at 7:30. "Meet john Qoe," a 1941 U.S. fllm, will be the in the Annenburg for the Monday Night Film Series, startingat 7 p.m. Admission for all ofthe University Artist Series movies isfree for members ofthe ND/SMC community, n for othe1r students with an ID, and $2 general. 
The Shakespeare Film Series is also sponsoring a flick on ¥onday night: "A Midsummer Night's Dream," the love story that involves kings and commoners, fairies and nymphs. The movie can be viewed in th<: Engineering Auditorium at 7 and 9:20, with no admission charge. 
Finally, "Land ofthe Brave" will be presented by the Chinese As­sociation in the Ubrary Auditorium Saturday at 7 p.m. 
•MIStCELLANEOUS CILA (the Community for International Lay Apostolate) is sponsoring a canoe trip this Saturday. 
Tht~ Notre Dame Gaming Club is organizing a backgammon tournament today and tomorrow. Prizes will be awarded to the win­ners. For more information, call Mike at 1580. 
CU.A and SOLA are presenting a lecture, "A Great Twentieth Cen­tury Human Tragedy: The Refugee Situation in Central America," by Rev. Michael Colonnese. Rev. Colonnes, who is the Director ofthe Commitment Program and is currently working in Mexico resettling refugees from El Salvador, will speak tonight at 7 in the Centerfor So clal Concerns. 
La Bourn Francaise, a party for French enthulasts, takes place tonight at 8 in the Badin Hall party room. Wine and cheese will be served and French music played. 
Sports Briefs 
All interested in officiating either women's 
flag football or soccer, please stop by the Non-Varsity Athletics office or call at 239-6100. -The Observer 
A meeting for the Windsurfing Clubwill 
be held this Friday at 4 p.m. in 445 Stanford. Members should bring a proofofinsurance. Those interested In learning should be prepared to make reservations. Anyone who is interested in joiningthe club is welcome to attend. -The Observer 
Entries for the Domer Six-Mile Run are 
now being accepted at the NVA office for the Domer 6-mile run. The run is set for October 8 at 10 a.m. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers and trophies to the first-place finishers in each of six divi­sions. Bring the S2 entry fee to the NVA office by October 6. -The Obseroer 
A horseback riding tripwm be sponsoring a trip to Sundance Stables in Mishawaka on Sunday, October 2. To reserve a time, bring the $5 fee to the NVA office by today. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be meeting tomorrow at 3 p.m. at Holy Cross at Saint Mary's to watch the Notre Dame football game. All are invited. -The Ob­seroer 
The ND-SM C Bike Club is going on its first trip of tht· year tomorrow to Warren Dunes. All billers who are interested in going along should meet in Lyons basketball courts at 9 a.m. with a packed lunch. There will be a car following along with the riders. If you have any questions, call Frank Voegele at 3504 or Laura Sizelove at HOSI. New members arc welcome. -The Observer 
joe Plane's cross country team, undefeated on the year, hosts the National Catholic Meet today on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Notre Dame will try to unseat defending champion Mar­quette. The five-mile race will begin at 4 p.m. -The Obseroer 
There will be a meeting for those interested in the Fencing Novice Program at 7 p.m., Monday, October 3, in the fencing gym of the ACC. those who wish to attend should wear gym clothes and gym shoes. -The Obsen1er 
I t 
Friday, September 30, 1983 -page 12 
The Notre Dame volleyball teamwill try to 
get back on the winning track this weekend as it travels to Cincinnati to play Xavier University in a North Star Conference game. The Irish will also compete in the Xavier Invitational. Notre Dame, coming off a loss to Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Wednesday which dropped the team's non-tournament record to 4-4, will try once again to overcome the injuries and minor mistakes that have troubled it all year. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball squadwill at­
tempt to continue its good start as it hosts the Saint Mary's Invitation­al this weekend in the Angela Athletic Facility. The frrst matches of the tournament will begin at 9 a.m. and action will continue for much ofthe day.-The Observer 
john Killeen's Saint Mary's tennis team will be hosting its own Saint Mary's Invitational this weekend at Leeper Park in South Bend. The squad, which has cruised to an impressive 5-0 record, will be hosting the lilles of Bowling Green, Toledo, Rosary, and DePauw. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis teamwill 
be seeing its only action ofthe fall this weekend as it hosts the Notre Dame Invitational on the Courtney Courts. It is a four-team tourna­ment that will start at 9 a.m. tomorrow and continue at 9 a.m. on Sunday. Notre Dame is the defending champion. -The Observer 
Sharon Petro's Notre Dame women's tennis team will be facing some stiff competition this weekend as it competes in the Northwestern Invitational in Evanston, Illinois. Northwestern has one of the top teams in the country. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team will be seeing action this weekend as it travels to Lake Forest College for a game tomorrow. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Watet Polo Club will be hosting its annual fall tournament this· weekend at the Rockne Memorial Pool. The club will be hosting the University ofMichigan, Illinois, Purdue, and Kenyon College. Games are scheduled for this evening and for all day tomorrow. The Irish are 1-2 on the season after finishing third in last weekend's Loyola ofChicago tournament. Schedules for this weekends games will be posted. -The Observer 
Basketball tickets sold soon 

Today, the Ticket Office will be mailing out applications for student season tickets for the 1983-84 men's basketball season. Any student who has not received an application by Wednesday should report to the Ticket office on the second floor of the ACC by Friday in order to pick up an application. 
The major change in ticket dis­tribution will be that the student season ticket package will not be split into two packages as in the past. Tickets for all 15 home games must be bought together. The price will be $37.50 for bleacher seats and $52.50 for lower arena. 
More details on distribution will appear in The Obseroer next week. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS SINGLES 
Hemmer (2849) v. Bhssert (6739) Sommers (3818) v. Ehman (2964) Almeida (6722) v. Rawson (7859) Zimmerman (6736) v. Demello (1326) Malinski (1248) v. Keller (2191) Sternitzke (7891) v. Sw1ecish (277-4181) Gordon (6968) v. Delapena (1349) Demello v. Becker Thompson v. bye Mulholland (1364) v. Farabaugh (2186) Bailey (2985) v. Ramos (1322) McGinnis (8037) v. Wong (4208) lmmonen (3091) v. Yepsen (1327) Konesky (1297) v. Kohlhaas (6834) Coin (6803) v. Para1so (1271) Rozic (6727) v. Cleveland (4514) 
MEN'S NOVICE SINGLES 
Lukasiak (8272) v. Pernas (3288) Kennaugh (4627) v. Bernhard1 (3455) BiageHi (1067) v. Taneff (1129) Polasek (8102) v. O'Hagan (7721) Healy (4625) v. Marczyk (1857) Berry (1177) v. Gardnler (8646) Hutter (6706) v. Po«er (8314) P1co (3316) v. Klisert Hayes (1194) v. bye 
Kim (3052) v. Jones (8387) Reardon (8686) v. Horvath (1392) O'Toole (8386) v. Clifford (8171) Kelly (1520) v. Geyer (8400) Reed (3378) v. Gorla (1145) Bauman (3546) v. Demarco (1392) Lusser (8989) v. Jordan (1691) 

The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. lo 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third noor of Haggar College Center, is open from 11:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by
Classifieds mail Charge is ten cnts per seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAYI CALL (312) 742-1142. EXT. 7316. 
HEY O.C.STUDENTS.need a beautiful. lovable, grey. free kiHen? IF yes caU-234­9580(Tom) 
FIVE FOOT TWO & TALLER. SIZE 9 & SMALLER. OPPORTUNITY TO MODEL FOR PROFESSIONAL HAIR FASHION SHOW ON OCT 2 & 3. PRELIMINARY INTERVIEWS FRIDAY. SEPT 30. AT MARRtOn HOTEL. 7 PM. ASK FOR LAMAUR. 
Experienced Typ1st will do typong. Reasonable rates. Call287-5182. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST-BLACK CANON SNAPPY 20 CAMERA AT GREEN FIELD ON SAT. SEPT. 17 REWARD. CALL CYNTHIA AT 234-8456. 
FOUND: One grey umbrella and one grey plaod wool cap. on Thursday noght in LaFortune. They are wart1ng for you at the Lost and Found in the Adm1mstrRtion Building. 
LOST: GOLD BRACELET ON 9/25 IN LIRARY PERIODICAL ROOM OR FROM LIBRARY TO BREEN-PHILLIPS SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL MARYBETH AT 1277 IF FOUNO 
..... .. ......... .. 
LOSTI one gold Aries medal with 
diamond s1ud Please contact Tim at8842 
(ST Ed's. 308). 
LOST BLUE GORTEX RAINCOAT REWARD JOHN 234-8493 
LOST: Key chaon w/6 keys on a green floating boat key chain. N0.8239. 
lost: gold bracelet with small diamonds on top-between corby"s and bndgets call 4366. 
LOST: Annota1ed New Oxford Bible. left 
behind 1n Monday 9/26 a1 2:30 p.m. in 
Room 328 Computer Center/Math Build­
Ing. Please return to office of Lost/Found 
(Adm1nos1ra110n Building). Thanks. Ber­
nard Deprez. 
·j FOR RENT 
.................,........ . FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO NO 2773604 
WANTED 
RIDE NEEDED,U OF I(CHAMPAIN). LEAVE 9/30 RETURN 10/2. WILL SHARE COSTS. KEN 3485 
WANTED: 4tox to So. Cal game. Must be together. W/pay mega bucks. Con1act: Mike 312-751-1111. 
AnN:ALL STUDENTS FROM SO.CALIF. CHARTER FLIGHT FOR XMAS BREAK.NEED 147 PEOPLE. LOW FARE FROM SO.BEND TO LAX. CALL 239-6682 FOR MORE DETAILS. 
FOR SALE 
GUITAR 12-s1nng acous1ic. $175-Gary 232-0550. 
AVAILABLE: 2 USC t1x. Call (215) 238­9052 after 5 pm. 
TICKETS 
Oesperately need Penn State game tick­ets. Call Brian at 8795. 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 
····················· ...• Willing to trade 5 (FIVE) Pin tickets for ONLY 4 (FOUR) USC tickets. Call N0.1723 Ask for Kev. 
USC-NO tix wan1ed. Pay1ng most. (312) 246-4650. 
MUST HAVE USC TIX--MONEY NO OBJECT--NEED UP TO SIX GAS. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME. 
NEED USC GA"S NOW--CALL CHRIS AT234-7279 
HELP 
A RICH friend Is in desperate need oftwo PmSBURGH GA'a. Please help an old friend out ola jam by ca/Nng Sari at 277­1326. You w/1/ be richly rewarded. 
HEY DUDES I HAVE 2 Pin GA"S THAT I 
AM WILLING TO TRADE FOR 2 USC 
GA"S. I AM ALSO LOOKING FOR 1 
MORE USC GA. IF INTERESTED CALL 
BRIAN AT 1165 
.......................................................... 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC AND/OR 
PITT OR AIR FORCE. CALL JIM AT 1501 
Need 4 GA tlckela tor usc a-. PleaM call OD at277-5214. 
NEED 4 NAVY GA"s. CALL STEVE AT 7980. 
NEED 4 TICKETS FOR NAVY.CALL TOMAT1201 
HELP!! NEED 2 USC GAS oFi"3..Pin GA"SI PLEASE CALL JIM AT 8736. 
Need IMMEDIATELY 2-4 GA"s tor Any Home Game Call Pete 1224 . . ... . . . .. . . . . . ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Must trade Ptn GAs for USC GAs JEFF 6756 
Need Non-studen11ickets to NO vs USC. Call collect, (312) 565-5959 x2013 or x2233. 
HAVE Pin TIX NEED PENN ST TIX CALL 1796 

Ellen and Susan, Congratulationstl You'll make wonderful nurses. love. Mary Ann 
NEED Ptn TIX. STUD'S OR GA'S CALL 1796 
Need NAVY GA"s x1695 

NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR · GOOD OL" DAD.. I Please call DAVE at8919 
I desperately need 3 GA"s or student tick­ets to the PiH game. If you can help call Karen at284-4278. Will pay BUCK$$111 
Parents have nev&J· seen an NO home game. Need four Navy GA's. Kathleen x8016. Thanks. 
NEED2 USC GA"S. CALL JACK AT277­5408 
NEED 3 TIX FOR NAVY. CALL ED AF­TER& P.M. AT277-8111. 
$$ HELP, NEED 3-5 AF GA"S, PLEASE CALL DAVE 234 0537 $$ 
Must have 8 GA"s lor USC or PHI. Will pay $$$.Call Cooie 2845514 
REALLY,REALLY NEED 4(0R 6) TICK­ETS TO PITT GAMEIICALL BILL N0.1763 
PERSONALS 
NEED MONEY? LIKE A CHALLENGE? TURN YOUR SPARE TIME INTO MONEY I Groupe or lndlvlduala needed to promote college vacation tours. For more Information: Cell 414 781-G455, or Write: DESIGNERS OF TRAVEL, 4025 N. 124th S1reet,Brookfleld, WI 53005. 
Oesperate isn't the word, I NEED. really NEED a ticket to the Ptn game. I'm IJPI particular. I'll take a student or GA. Please. call1311 and offer to sell me your ticket. Will pay b1g bucks. 
RB POLL Week of9/19/83Joe 2-0 (4)28 Larry 1-0 25 Rob 1-1 (1)22 Adam 0-1 11 Bob 0-0 10 John 0-2 9 I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. WILUNG TO TRADE TICK­ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA.'S. CALL JERRY AFTER 6 AT x1783. 
Are you going home early for October break? L.A. Gal needs FOUR G.A.'a to see NO beat USC. Will pay MUCHO S plus take you to DINNER. Call Michelle ?84-4138 
To wish BRIDGET NEVILLE a HAPPY BIRTHDAY. call 7830. Happy 18th. you FAT COWl 
JODY AND CHERYL. REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO SAT. NIGHTIII!IIII SATISFACTION GUARENTEEDIII! -THE SCREWDRIVER MEN 
.........··········•·•·•••·· 
KEITH PENROD: PAM & I ARE WITH YOU ALL THE WAYIIF WE CAN'T DO IT IN THE STADIUM YOU KNOW WE'LL DO IT ON THE ICEI LOVE, KATIE & PAM. 
Nancy & Maryann The Big Day is finally here. So let"s go out and have a beer. And If Saturday brings on aching heads You can administer the oral-meds. Congrats Peggy & Lori 
SENIORS SENIORS WATCH NO BEAT COLORADO AT SENIOR BAR START­ING AT3:00 BE THERE I 
SENIORS COME TO SENIOR BAR TO WATCH THE GAME ON SAT. GAME TIME 153:00 
HEY SENIORS! COME ON OVER AND WATCH THE GAME ON SATURDAY AT SENIOR BAR. GAME TIME 3:00 
INTERNATIONAL ROSARY MARCH Join o1hers praying the Rosary simul taneously around the world. lor world peace. SUNDAY 2PM GROnO 
.,,,,,,,;:;,,-.,Nk,•. 
Kim P.-·1 do love thee. and when I love thee no1. Chaos is come again.....(l do love thee).-The Green-eyed Monster 
RB POLL WEEKof9/t2/83Joe 1-028(4) Larry 0-0 t 9( t) Rob 0-1 18 John 0-0 1 7 Bob 0-0 15 Adam 0-0 8 
PUNK PARTY AT CARROLL PUNK PARTY AT CARROLL SATURDAY 9:00PM AT CARROLL HALL(ND) THE VERMIN WILL HAVE ITS FIRST AN­NUAL PUNK PARTY ALL PROGRESSIVE PERSONS ARE INVITED AS LONG AS THEY BRING CURRENCY. PUNK PARTY AT CAR­ROLL PUNK PARTY AT CARROLL 
PUNK PARTY WITH THE VERMIN GO BACK AND READ THE PREVIOUS AD (BY THE WAY THE PARTY IS SATUR­DAY AT9:00) 
BARNEY GRANT(REBEL) WILL OJ THE 
DANCE IN CHAUTAOUA FRIDAY. ALL 
PROGRESSIVES ARE INVITED 
.....................·........................................... 
THE PUNK PARTY AT CARROLL IS 
SATURDAY 
Since you've cared. We have shared 
Everything, we two. Know 1hat we Will al­
ways be Buddy's, me and you. Happy 
21st Peg Me Aullffe! Love, Lyndy 
.................................................... . 
Oear P.T.. This past year has been I he 
best yearotmy lie. With you by my side,l 
know there will be many more 1o come. 1 
love you. Cutie. 
The NOTRE DAME PROGRESsWE 
MUSIK CLUB will meet at18321 w.,. 
rick lor Ita flrlllheppy hour of IIIIo year. 
To get to Warrick, tum on Bulla Road 
(near IIIIo Bulla Shed) and prOCMd to IIIIo •top algn atlvy Road. Take a right on Ivy Road, and take thlt flrat left, which Ia Warrick. TIMtnt will be mualk, compeny, •nd boppln'; aH rnernbere and proapecttve membere -lcome. We'llatart at5, tone It down by 7. Y'all come. SOME OF YOU JUST ABOUT MISSED IT. Be thltre TO Nl GHT 
OCT. 2 IS GARY ODLAND'S 21st BIRTHDAY! CALL HIM AT X1213 OR STOP BY 1117 FLANNER AND WISH HIM A VERY HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY GARY! LUV SUE. MOM. AND THE SPOON THIEVES... 
Seductress, Good luck. I have latnh In your talents. One experiencedin naive Infatuations 

The Observer Friday, September 30, 1983-page 13 
... None 

continuedfrompage 16 
struck out on an 0-2 pitch. 
That brought up Carlton Fisk, who 
had struck out twice and flied out. 
Fisk then flied out to left fielder Rick­
ey Henderson on a 1-2 pitch to com­
plete the no-hitter. 
The last rookie to throw a no-hitter was Texas' Jim Bibby, who did it against Oakland on July 30, 1973. 
r----:---l 
"•
PARMERLEE DETECfiVE AGENCY MR. C. T. PARMERLEE 
Pnuat11 D~trctiu~ 
115 S Scott Sires!. Apl A Soulh Bend, IN 46601 (219) 288-6621 
ur.ant 
Best i1r1 Aged Stea 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sunda 

Democratic Socialists of America 
ND -SMC Chapter First Organizational Meeting Monday, Oct. 3, 7:30 1150'Shag All Interested faculty and students welcome 
Hickory Smoked Ribs Fried Chicken Deliciously Thick Pizza 
1835 LWE, South Bend, ln. Phone: 288-8240 
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet Granger, ln. Phone: 277-3143 

Buy a Rib l"ip & Chicken Dinner at Re,gular Price and get the Second at Yz Price Must Remit Coupon 
Complete Carry Out· Phone Ahead 
Not valid in combination with other coupons No cash value. or specials Expires Sept. 30, 1983. 
: t 
t It 
t Applications for St. t Mary's Sports Editor 
. b . t
t are now eiDg t t accepted. Dead-t t line for applications f t is this Friday. For t t more details call Mike t t at 239-5323. 1
t________j 
BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m. -3:30 p.ft;'l. Friday -11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 
~source
-.aank 
Member F.D.I.C. 


"PIZZA LIGHT" Is the name given to our new 2 for 1 pizza special. With a coupon such as the one below, whenever you order a Pizza Light. we make you the same pizza FREE. Upon your 
FREE 
PIZZA! 
request, we will make the pizzas with different 
See coupons below toppings, but we must charge you for the one with more Ingredients. "TWO GREAT PIZZAS FOR ONE LOW PRICE!!" What a great way to enjoy your favorite food without blowing your budget.
FREE 
PIZZA LIGHT 

DELIVERY 
10" 12" 14" cheese 3.80 5.15 6.90ND/SMC cheese & 1 Ingredient 4.80 6.35 8.40 Cheese & 21ngredlents 5.70 7.40 9.70
on regular menu items 
cheese & 3 ingredients 6.50 8.30 10.80 additional ingredients .70 .80 1.00 Prince's Delight (X·tra cheese, Sausage, Ham, Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions, Peppers, Black olives, Green Olives) 7.90 9.90 12.80 All prices include tax· Pizza Light delivery $1.00
272·8030 
!; 
..·-----------------------~
FREE PIZZA exp.10131&3 FREE PIZZA exp.1013183
~-------------------~---· 

Buy any alze "PIZZA LIGHT" at regular Buy any size "PIZZA LIGHT" at regular prlc• and receive the Identical pizza price and receive the Identical pizza FREE. No other coupons accepted with FREE. No other coupons accepted with this offer. Free delivery does not apply. this offer. Free delivery does not apply. 
272-8030 272-8030 

tJu!~h .. ,tJ]·inrr tJuli(!h. ·, tfrinrr l]i.:!~ria lJt<~ria 
----------------------------· -----------------------­
§RNER OF EDDY & MADISON 

OPI:N MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 10 TIL 7 CLOSEDSUNDAYSANDHOUDAYS 
And when you bring this ad in· you will get 1ot: OFF on any other item purchased! 
..• 

The Observer Friday, September 30, 1983-page"14 
Cup aftermath 
Newport returns to normal 
Associated Press 
NEWPORT, R.I. Small 
businesses that thrived on tourism 
during the America's Cup races may 
have to tighten their belts a bit, but 
Newport won't founder just because 
Australia sailed offwith the yachting 
prize, the mayor says. 
Four million tourists trekked across the globe to glimpse the sleek 12-meter racers over the spring and summer, generating an estimated S60 million for Rhode Island, according to the Newport Chamber ofCommerce. 
The next time the prize comes up for grabs, in 1987, it will be in Perth, Australia. For the first time since 18'>1, the United States won't be defending, and for the first time since 19 30, this city of millionaires' mansions and shipyards won't be host. 
"We've been through crises bdore. When the Navy pulled out in 1973 people thought we'd be devastated," said Mayor Paul L Gaines. 
"But with our diversified economy, the high technology, tourism and what's left of the Navy, there's no reason to expect disas­ter." 
Possibly the hardest hit by the Cup's departure will be small gift shops, usually spinof!S from per­manent stores, that opened up strict­ly for America's Cup souvenirs every three years. 
"They'll probably suffer the most," Gaines said. Other businesses will just see a "smaller piece of the pic." 
"I don't mean to be negative, but it 
is going to change the way we do 
business," said Andy MacGowan, 
vice president of Newport Of!Shore 
Ltd., home port for many cup con­
testants. 
"We're all going to have to work harder. Ifwe do, we can be the cen­ter of many international events besides the America's Cup." 
MacGowen points to next year's scheduled Black Ships festival com­memorating Commodore Matthew 
C. Perry's sailing into Japan, the Newport-to-Bermuda race and the Onion Patch Regatta, a prelude to the Bermuda crossing. 
"These are some of the events we 

Major League Baseball 
as a state should be working togeth­er to promote. The America's Cup has allowc;d Newport to build up sailing construction and support services that can let us host many other international events," he said. 
Newport Of!Shore isn't about to fold because of the Australians. Like other boatyards, it operates year­round, and the dock space occupied by other craft, albeit at lower prices. 
Charles Robertson, a spokesman for W:le Williams & Manchester shipyard, says he already has been approached about building an American challenger for 1987 and currently has orders to build four aluminum yachts this~inter. 

Merrick Pratt, president of ).T.'s Ship Chandlery,. sold Cup victor Austraia II the miles of Kevlar rope that controlled the craft's sails. He also provided all the deck hardware and other equipment to defender Liberty. 
"It's going to cost us money, to be 
honest. But we're not leaving the 12­
meter business, not by any means," 
he said. 

Padres keep Dodgers from title 
1 1-7 victory over the Reds last night. pinch-runner and continued until he made a curtain call in front of the 
Bench, making his farewell ap­dugout. pearance before 8,067 home fans, singled to ignite a five-run rally in 
N.Y. 4, Bos. 3 
the fifth inning that brought the Reds from a four-run deficit to a 7-6 lead. 
NEWYOR.K(AP)-Don Matting­When Bench was announced as a 
ly's bases-loaded single with one out pinch-hitter with the bases loaded, 
capped a two-run rally in the ninth the crowd stood and remained 
inning that carried the New York standing as the count reached 2-2. Yankees past the Boston Red Sox 4-3 Bench's hit into left field scored two last night. runs and the crowd noise rose to a Ron Guidry pitched a seven-hitter roar as he left base in favor of a 
to raise his record to 21-9. 
$101 /??;COUPON FOR TEN DOLLARS OFF 
WESTERN SKI JACKETS 
0~ 
WESTERN OR CAPEZIO BOOTS 
Wooden Indian Western Store 50877 US 31 North 1 I 2 mile So. Mich. line~ 10..6 m-Th 10-8 F-S V 
McCarthy's 
EST.1983 
Moo: Monday Night Football ­Pitchers $2 during game 
Toes: Two for One Draft N.D. 
Dome 
Two drafts .75 
NO Ave. 
Wed: Talent and Ladies Nite ­
Happy Hourprices to ladies 
Thurs: Cheers Nite ­
Hill St. 
.25 draft8-JOPM 
*McCarthy's
Fri: Pre-Game Nite ­
wake up the echoes with us! 
Sat: Sat. Morning Confusion ­
Irish Omelets 12.50; draft 7AM .10 up a dime every hour till noon 
Sat. Afternoon Pre-Game Warm-Up $2.00 pitchers 2-8 
Uncle Vinnie Says: 
"We cater to 4IO N. Hill Mon-Thurs 11:00-I:OO party animals" Fri II:00-2:00 
Full line ofPub Grnb served dai~v Sat 7:00AM· 2:00AM 

SAN DIEGO (AP) -Andy Haw­
kins scattered seven hits in 8 2-3 in­
nings and Terry Kennedy drilled a 
solo homer to give the San Diego 
Padres a 4-1 victory over Los An­
geles last night, stalling the Dodgers' 
National League West pennant bid 
with a sweep ofa doubleheader. 
The Dodgers' magic number to win the West remained at one with three games remaining. They have a three-game lead over the second­place Atlanta Braves, who kept their hopes alive with a 5-4 victory over the Houston Astros. 
The Padres won the opener 7-1 with a six-run eighth inning. 
Hawkins, a 23-year-old right­
hander called up to the majors ear­
lier this month, struck out a 
career-hig.'1 I 0 and walked four 
while giving up the Dodgers' only 
run on a two-out homer in the ninth 
by Jose Moraies. Hawkins, 5· 7, 
needed last-out relief help from Luis 
DeLeone, who posted his 13th save. 
Kennedy's 17th homer of the 
year, a 400-foot blast into the right­
center field bleachers, came in the 
fourth inning. San Diego padded its 
lead in the sixth, scoring three times 
off Dodger starter Alejandro Pena, 
12-9. 
In the opener, Tony Gwynn's two­out RBI single and Kevin McReynolds' two-run hit keyed a sixth-run eighth for the Padres. 
The victory went to Sid Monge, 9· 
3. 
Atl. 5, Hou. 4 
HOUSTON (AP) Randy Johnson's chop single to left with two outs in the ninth inning scored Chris Chambliss and lifted the At­lanta Braves to a 5-4 victory over the 
Houston Astros last night. 
Chambliss opened the ninth with a single off loser Vern Ruhle, 8-5. One out later, Albert Hall walked, setting the stage for johnson's chop­per that bounced once over the head of Houston third baseman Phil Garner. 
Reliever Gene Garber, 4-5, was 
the winner and Terry Forster posted 
his 13th save. 
S.F. 11, Cin. 7 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Chris Smith hit a two-run homer in the seventh inning to overshadow a two-run, pinch single by johnny Bench in his final Cincinnati appearance and vault the San Francisco Giants to an 
.'.
' .. 

Organizational Meeting for 
COLLEGIATE dAZZ FESfiVAL 
All are welcome Tuesday, Oct. 4 8:00PM Chautauqua Ballroom 
Every Special Group Needs A Special Place To Go! How about Putt-Putt® GolfS Games ... offering putting and video fun, with special discounts for Group Play, including dorm outings and tournaments. can for more 3651 N. Main St. information or Mishawaka 259-4171 reservations ... 2 miles east of campus Forthefunofit!off Edison(Angela)  




Weekend 
Friday, September 30, 1983 -page 15 
Bloom County 
ffil1f\Y,1Hf-NEW YOPJ<17M£6 
IN5157tl71HM Ye'fff'J<.ClAY'S 

H£APUN£ QU077N0 Pfl£511?6NT R£A&AN AS 5AYIN01HA7 WCVriU/ 
wtRf.. "WTL£ (?(Jft1PI-JN5" WAS A R6SU/,T OF COMPUTER PIRACY. 

Fate 
SoRR.'I ro HEAR THAT YOU HAI/C To r:ro, I 



Mellish 
!M INVOlVf.O I~ A WHOlE SP!CIA•I>l OF 
'""tJ~ 
(I 

~~---·--_____::._~1 
"":::J!r1£BOC'Y OVT I HER£ GAINEO f\CC6S5 10 OUR 570RY FlU ANl7 MilO€ 1H£ CHAN<£5/' SAIP pg<pi..£X£1? COPY fll/10R JIU. 5MfTH . 
Bur I HOP£ YOU ENJoYED YOU!(. 5TfiY HEKC Ill N.f). 
I 
BESIPF~ 8fi~G ON TUE 51AfF Of BoTH TilE li~DEIIT Ntw5PIIP£11. ANO TI-ff. AtL AD~ISORY tOUNCIL, l CllAIK A STUOEI'lT/ F~CUJ.TY INTfRA<JtON toi>IN11TEI: Af.,) 
I'M TREAS•Rfl\ N M~ "AlL Gov'T. 
e Y"' 
r~ ~
'l. 
I 
~--
~ --------'-----1 

The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 9/30/83 


Nf)J6RTH£L£5S, 1Hf5 MORNING 200,000 F£111/NI5T5 Pfi.:Tt;ll1H£ WHITE. HOUSE WITH OVER A MIU-ION ClUMPIAN&S, PROMPTIIJ0 1H6 M081Ulf1TTON OF THf, 101 '-T 
AIRBORN£. IDN10Hf. 1H£ NPillON 'S CAPrTA/, ReMAINS IN IOTA/, CHAOS. 
' 
WELL, I HAD II WONDERFUL TIME, 
\ 


I AL~o ENJDY SF'o~TS 1 QPt~A 1 CLASSicAL LITU~TUI':~,AN~ ocm 
COOI<,/1>1(;. 8~ r, £ f<llUGH ABo~T I'I~Jfll Mf Sol'lflHrNG Ap,our Y6UlStlF J 
00NAL0, '-. 

ACROSS 29 Impetuous 
1 Difficult 33 French 
5 Contaminate river 10 Migration 34 Heroic tale 
14 Silkworm 35 Inlet 
15 Kind of 36 A losing 
pulley or presiden­
wheel tial can­16 Deserve didate 17 A losing 40 Notable 
presiden· time 
tial can-41 Scion 

didate 42 Furlough 20 Henpeck 43 British 21 Dregs stool 22 Moon pigeon 
goddess 45 Reflux 23 Young 46 Desists 
salmon 47 Seaweed 24 Fit to -49 Joyous 25 Distributes 50 Oklahoman 28 Big -,Cal. 53 Visits with 
Thursday's Solution 
c u 8 A•• c A T TIc 0 p T 
ANIL.ARMOR ALEE 
W I L 0 P R A I R I 
E R 0 S E S T E E R A G E •c 
I T 

R 0 N 1-R10 BIS•T 
0 

00­C L A M M v•c A 
L 

E N 0 A R 
H A L AIS. CALOR.OOA 
E T 0 N•o 
IV EPAIR MIS 
0 E S F Lll E S 
I N F 0 
RIE o•IC E 
RM E R -,r R C lA N E 

1-WlElA 
R•AN 

A­IS T 
S T L E S 0 L E N• A P 0 
MY 
WI 

L 0 I R I~R 0 S E 
0 R EIS .ERAISIE ANAT 
G 0 
IS H.OAISH ZEUS 
9/311/83 
Berke Breathed 
"1/JfU-I'P 136 1H£ PR.651P6NT'S UTTU {l(Jft'IPUN 
1H£ WOND€R ANYPAY" SA/Il 
OF IT f\(,(,/ {f(YWS SCI/f,Afi.Y 0 £ARIA£R. 
~ 

Photius 
BuT THIS WAS}(T If. 
Dave&Dave 

54 Francoise's 23 Dbc:ie bread friend -~4,. !;»q;•gnosti·
57 Aloslng cate preslden· 25 Pale tlal can­26 Gerne Tier· didate ne1r role 
60 Faucet 27 Like a 
problem round part 61 Got up 28 Hindu term 62 Aural of respect 63 Wild 30 Tapestry 
buffalo 31 Strainer 64 Risehlgh 32 Rultherford 65 Piano or Helen 
favorite 34 Biblical country 

DOWN 37 Alennder ­1 Chopped 38 Satisfy 2 Vicinity 39 Le11d 3 Boxer's 44 Na<tive 
milieu Hawaiian 4 Mom'sman 46 Bright 5 Masonic 48 Neckwear 
doorkeepers for44D 
6 Contempo­49 Honkers rary of 50 Ror)m,to Freud Pedro 
7 Malaises 51 Eu1·opean 8 Novel rivE•r .9 lseult's 52 "Gr)()d 
lover Ea11h" 10 Bank Chlitracter 

employee 53 Put away 11 libertine 54 Concerning 12 Emerald 55 Drudge 
Isle 56 Peruvian 13 Genu 58 Box-office 18 Beetle sign 19 light Horse 59 N8!~atlve 
Harry pre•fix 


Campus 
Friday, Sept. 30 

•12: 
1 5 p.m. -Lecture, "Alternative Healing Movements," Dr. Meredith A. McGuire, 500 Memorial Library 

•3:30 
p.m. -Sociology Department Lecture, "Health and Healing and the Sacred," Dr. Meredith 

A. 
McGuire, 122 Hayes Healy 


•4 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Dynamics and Other Aspects of H-and H Transfer Reactions," Prof. Rudolph A. Marcus, 123 NSH 

•4 
p.m. -Cross Country, National Catholic, Notre Dame GolfCourse 


•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Algebraic Integers and Group Actions on Spheres," Prof. James Milgram, 226 CCMB 

•6:30 
p.m. -Nusrses' Capping Ceremony, Church ofLoretto 


•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Life of Brian," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Abiogenesis, S 1 

•7:30 
p.m.-Friday Night Film Series, "Scenic Route," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -S.O.L.A. Lecture, "A Great 20th Century Human Tragedy: The Refugee Situation in Central America," Rev. Michael Colonnese, Social Concerns Building 

•8 
p.m. -Soccer, NO Men vs. Univ. of Toledo, Cartier Field 

•8 
p.m. -Coffeehouse Opening, SMC Musical Talent, Mezzanni of Haggar College Center 


Saturday, Oct. 1 
•8 am. -MCATS, Engineering Auditorium 

•8  am.  -Law School Admission Test, 212  
CCMB  
•4 p.m.  -Football, Notre Dame vs.  Colorado,  

Boulder Colorado 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Land of the Brave," Chinese As­sociation, Library Auditorium 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Life of Brian," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Abiogenesis, Sl 

Sunday, Oct. 2 


•8 
p.m. -Concert, Craig]. Cramer, Faculty Or­gan recital, Sacred Heart Church 

•9:30 
p.m. -Rosary, For Day of Fasting and Prayer, Sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life 


Far Side 


Fri., Sept. 30 &Sat., Oct. 1 
Sponsored by Abiogenesis 
Engineering Aud. 
7, 9,&11-$1 






Sports 
Friday, September 30, 1983 -page 16 
Soccer team tries to get back on winning track 
By PHIL WOLF "These guys don't let their spirits Sports Writer down," he says. "They have nothing to be ashamed of. They played a 
Hoping to get back on track heck ofa good game." 
following last week's 4-0 loss to In­diana, the Notre Dame soccer team Despite the loss, the Irish still hold will take on Toledo tonight. The an impressive 7-2 record, including match will begin at 8:00 under the seven consecutive shutouts. In fact, lights at Cartier Field. the four goals that Indiana scored 
Last year, the Irish easily handled wa~ four times the amount that Toledo, winning 7-3. According to Notre Dame had allowed in the first Assistant Coach Hank Hofman, eight games. however, "Toledo might be tougher Notre Dame will playing this
this yc:ar. The good thing is that weekend without the aid of starting
we're playing on turf. We're a fast, goalkeeper Mark Steranka, who
nmning team, and we play better on turf." 
injured his knee in practice this week. Hofman said that the coaching
Hofman will be coaching tonight staff is not yet ready to announce

in the absence of Head Coach Rich who will be minding the netsllunter. who is out of town due to a tonight.
death in his family. Hunter should be back tomorrow, Hofman said. "If he Also injured is freshman midfiel­• has to rent a plane, he'll get back." 
der Eric Evans, who bruised his knee On Sunday, the Irish will travel to 
against Indiana Hofman said he is 

Chicago to take on DePaul. Last year The Notre Dame soccer team (in light shorts) DePaul on Sunday. Despite losing to defending
still not sure if Evans will be able to 

Notre Dame beat DePaul here, 6-0. will be chasing a couple more wins this weekend national champion Indiana in its last game, the
play tonight.

Hofman thinks that it will be tough as it hosts Toledo tonight and then travels to team stillholdsa good 7-2 record. Seestciry at left. IRISH ITEMS -After the home
to repeat that performance on the Blue Demons' own field. He expects game with Toledo, the Irish will 
Women's interhall 
begin a stretch that will see them Hofman does not think that the 
a low-scoring, defensive game. 
play only one game at home over the loss to Indiana has affected his 
next two weeks. That game is Friday, players. October 7, against Findlay. 

B.P., Lewis, Farley win openers 
By MARY SIEGER proud of B.P.'s winning tradition in terhall champion, Farley, and says Sports Writer interhall football and is determined the poor weather and slick field
Oakland rookie gets 
to win back the championship that it were a disadvantage to both teams. Notre Dame women's interhall lost to Farley last year. This season, Burns hopes to im­football kicked off this week as "We're going to maintain the prove on last year's 1-6 record, with 
Breen-Phillips defeated Pasquerilla dynasty and we're not going to give the players having fun in the East 8-6 and Lewis rolled over Lyons up the championship again," she process. She would also like to see Associated Press to reach second base and faced 29 28-6 Wednesday night on Cartier warns. the team score a touchdown in batters, two over the minimum. In field. Earlier this week, Lewis Pasquerilla East's team captain, every game, which would be an im­the third, he walked Scott Fletcher, defeated Walsh 12-6 in double Kim Zerr, attributes Wednesday provement over lao;t year's mere 
no-hitter last night 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Mike Warren who was then thrown out stealing. overtime and Farley beat Lyons 8-6. evening's loss _to "frrst game jitters." three touchdowns during the entireof the Oakland A's became the first In Wednesday's season opener for Carla Cortes' touchdown and Col­season.

Tom Paciorek drew another walk inrookie to pitch a no-hitter in more the fifth. both Breen-Phillips and Pasquerilla leen Minogue's interception in the Sunday marked an exciting gamethan a decade lao;t night by blanking Warren, who made his major­East, Jean MacKay scored early in second half were the key plays for between Lewis and Walsh. At thethe Chicago White Sox 3-0. 

the first half for B.P. Her efforts were the squad and Zerr believes her end of the game, the score wao; tied,league debut on june 12 againstThe 22-year-old right-hander Chicago and threw a wild pitch to followed by extra points from team played well on the whole. 0-0. During the first overtime, bothwalked three and struck out five in 
teammate Martha Kutashy. An inter­

Greg Luzinski on this frrst pitch in the "It's a shame about last night teams scored, leading to doublebreezing through the Chkago ception in the last two minutes of (Wednesday), and we'll have to overtime where Lewis eventuallybig leagues, ran halfway to thelineup to pitch the second no-hitter 
play effectively stopped P.E.'s late

mound to start the ninth. A crowd of keep our eyes and ears open for big scored the winning touchdown.
in the major leagues this week. Bob 9,0S8 cheered on the cold and scoring drive. plays," commented Zerr. Walsh team captain, Mary !..anger, 

Forsch of the St. Louis Cardinals no­"Both the offensive and defensive Zerr believes P.E. has "well feels her team was unprepared for

windy night as Warren took his ahit Montreal 3-0 on Monday. 
warmups. lines still need work," said B.P. cap­rounded" team this season and the game and t the weather effected
The dosest the White Sox came to 

jerry Hairston, who had broken tain Lisa Erhardt, "but, through the hopes to improve on last season's 6-its performance. Walsh's touch­a hit was in the eighth inning when up Milt Wilcox's perfect game at­direction of coaches Chris Ritten 2 record, making the playoffs in the down was the result ofa quarterbackpinch-hitter Mike Squires belted a tempt with two outs in the ninth ear­and Mike Brennan, the team is adapt­process. sneak and Langer was impressedlong drive that right fielder Mike 
ing well to a new program. We plan 

lier this season, pinch hit to lead off Lewis team captain, Janeen Olds, with quarterback joan Smierciak's
Davis, who had just entered the 
on beating teams as they come up performance.
the ninth and walked on a 3-2 pitch. was very pleased with her team's 
game as a defensive replacement, Pinch-hitter Greg Walker then but we've got to get everything astonishing four touchdowns Wed­"Everyone played well, but it wascaught at the wall near the 372-foot fli ed out to center and Rudy Law solid." nesday night. "It's rare to get four the defense that saved the game,"mark for the final out of the inning. 
Ehrhardt, like her teammates, is touchdowns in an interhall game," she said. 

Warn:n, S-3, did not allow a batter see NONE, page 13 

What's up? Here's what your teams are doing this weekend 
TODAY TOMORROW 
cross country National Catholic Meet 

football SMC tennis 4p.m. 
at Colorado SMC Invitational Burke Golf Course 
2:30p.m. TBA Leeper Park 
soccer vs. Toledo SMC volleyball 
field hockey 

8 p.m. SMC Invitational 
at Lake Forest 

Cartier Field 9 a.m. Angela Athletic Facility'
NO volleyball at Xavier 

SUNDAY 
N D women's tennis soccerat Northwestern Invitational 

at DePaul 2p.m. 
says Olds. Langer hopes to see Walsh im­
Three of those touchdowns were prove its 2-6 record this season and attributed to Rosie O'Brien, Lewis' hopes "to beat a North Quad team." tailback. "She's about the fastest Defending interhall champions, thing I've seen in interhall," says Farley, hopes to retain its title this Lyons team captain, Martha Burns. season and Sunday's game against "She was so fast we couldn't catch Lyons was a step in that direction. her." Team captain, Sharon Koehler, at­
"Ro.sie has got some good moves tributes the victory to team effort and she Is an asset to the team," ad­and said, "We made a few mistakes mits Olds, "but you can't show well out there due to inexperience, but without a line blocking well." we're working well together." 
Olds attributes Wednesday's vic­Koehler is impressed with fresh­tory to a team effort. "Our offensive man starting t quarterback, Kim Koh­line clicked, we got the bigplays and laas and believesshe has the talent to that made the game," she says. Olds become a fine addition to the team. also says the number of returning "This team has the potential and veterans this season has been an as­talent to win," said Koehler. "It's a set. matter ofexecution oftalent, getting 
Lyons' squad attributes the loss to up for games and working hard." the injuries to its starting quarter­This Sunday, there will be a game back and noseguard which were in­between Pasquerilla West and flicted during Sunday's contest Pasquerilla East at 6:30 which will against Farley. Freshman Kathleen be followed by a match between Priest has taken over quarterback Walsh and Breen-Phillips at 7:30. At responsibilities for the injured 8:30, there will be a game between jeanne Luther. Luther is expected to Farley and Lewis. return to the lineup within the next two weeks. 
Burns is disappointed with the performance of her defensive line 
Next week:
and says there will be some changes 
in the defensive setup. Burns feels 
Men's Interhall 
the team will have to work on its defensive strategy. Burns is pleased with her team's performance against defending in­



