• • • in Showcase-p.JO 

~:~·. t 
..
' ~ ....,.......-. 
ND to build swimming pool 
ByPATSAIN 
StajfReporter 
Plans to build a new swimming pool complex onto the ACC are nearly complete, said Gene Cor­rigan, director of athletics. A recent anonymous "large gift" to the t:ni­versity's athletic endowment fund has made the addition possible. 
Construction for the pool is tentatively scheduled to begin in September or October and is ex­pected to be completed in a year, but "nothing is certain at this point," Corrigan said. The new pool will be located in the area behind the ACC which faces Cartier Field. 
The fund, begun in July 19tH to provide money for indoor tennis courts and a swimming pool, now amounts to over S 10 million. 
Corrigan said the University met 
with five different consultants, 
including Ellerbe Architects, and 
presented each with a program 
outlining the pool's intended use. 
Proposals are expected to be 
returned in a month. "They will 
probably come back and say we 
want too much for our money," said 
Corrigan. 
"This is primarily a swimming pool addition, and we want to do it right," Corrigan stated. He em­phasized, however, that the new "multi-purpose" pool will be used for several programs, and not for just the varsity teams. 
The ideal pool would be 50 
meters long and 25 yards wide. (The 
Rockne pool is 25 yards long.) This 
would permit recreational swim­
ming, men's and women's varsity 
swimming practice and possibly 
diving to take place at the same time. 
The problem associated with a 50­
meter pool, according to Brother 
Louis Hurcik, a physical education 
instructor, is the lack of space be-


Scientists expect debris of satellite to miss U.S. 

hind the ACC, where the addHion is to be built. Cartier Field may be rel­ocated if the pl,;ln is accepted. 
A 25 x 25 meter pool is another alternative, Hurcik said. A pool of this size would be the largest which could fit in the area without relocat­ing Cartier. 
Hurcik believes that the new pool will be ideal for teaching beginning swimming classes because of the large shallow end it will have. The present pool in Rockne :\lemorial is only 12 feet wide and 42 feet long. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Pen­tagon estimated yesterday that there is a two percent chance that debris from a disabled nuclear-powered Soviet spy satellite will hit the United States after entering the at­
mosphere sometime between early Sunday and Monday afternoon. 
Spokesman Henry Catto told reporters that experts have predicted the entry of the satellite, which carries a nuclear reactor, sometime between 1 a.m. Sunday and 3 p.m. Monday. 
However, space experts said the Cosmos 1402, which has been tum­bling toward earth at an ever­increasing rate, may plunge into the atmosphere late Sunday night. 
"We can't predict where, with any certainty, until just at the last before it comes in," Catto said when asked to forecast where the satellite's debris will reach the earth's surface. 
At the same time, he said there is a 
70 percent chance the Cosmos 
debris will come down over water, 
Activitie: planned for the pool in­clude recreational swimming, water polo, lifesaving, scuba, and physical education classes. Corrigan ~aid the schedule for the new pool will be tilled without any trouble, even with the Rockne pool still in full-time use. 
Corrigan indicated that students and the rest of the Notre Dame com­munity will have priority in the use of the pool. Area high schools and swim teams may be able to use the pool during times when student use is low. 
1 5 percent chance over the Soviet Union, 3 percent chance over Canada and 2 percent chance over the tlnited States. 

Nearly five years ago, a similar satellite with nuclear-powered radar that scanned ship movements fell in­to the atmosphere over northern Canada and scattered debris over a sparsely populated area. 
The Cosmos 1"102 was launched 
from the Soviet Union on Aug. 30. 
See DEBRIS, page 5 
'Season ofhope' 

Rea~an appraises stewardship 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan, who swept into office promising prosperity and balanced !,udgets, observed the midpoint of his term yesterday contending the nation was entering "a season of 
Extra-terrestrials 




Crowe addresses pluralism 
By TOM PACE 
News Staff 
Is there really a man in the moon? According to .VIic­hael]. Crowe of the Program of Liberal Studies, this was once a popular belief. Crowe addressed the issue ofex­traterrestrials last night in the Library Lounge. 
Crowe began by proving "that the famous 'Moon Hoax' of 1835 was not in fact a hoax." According to Crowe, the hoax was originated by a journalist working 
for the now-defunct Neu• York Sun. Richard Adams Locke, a descendant of philosopher John Locke, published a series of articles declaring that life on the moon was indeed a reality. However, Locke did not as­sign his own name to the work; he used the name of astronomer Sir John Herschel to lend credibility to the claims. 
The circulation of the Sun had been 8,000, but Locke's incredible story raised that number to 12,000, and from there the story spread quickly. The specula­tion ended with Locke revealing the true nature of his story to a fellow journalist. 
Crowe said that the ":\1oon llo:1x" was clever satire on the part of Locke. Crowe claimed that Herschel laughed uproariously over the incident. 
Crowe also talked about the tension which existed between Christians and pluralists in the 19th century. Thomas Paine was one of the leading proponents of pluralism prior to this century. In his work Age of Reason, Paine attacked Christianity a~ practiced during his lifetime. Paine argued that "although the existence 

Dr. Michael Crowe 
ofintelligent life only on earth is not a specific Christian doctrine, it is nonetheless 'so worked up therewith from ...the story ofEve and the apple ...that to believe otherwise renders the Christian system of faith at once little and ridiculous."' 
On the other side of the issue, Crowe said that pluralists also supported Christianity. Timothy Dwight, former president of Yale Cniversity, used pluralism to convince his audiences that earthlings are the worst life form in the universe and all should repent and emulate their more virtuous interplanetary brethren. 
Crowe suggested that Paine, Dwight, and their fol­lowers "suffered from the same flaw. Both groups suc­cumbed to the tendency to speculate excessively and arrogantly about how God should have constructed the universe 
hope" even if economic recovery deficits in his budgets. The fisc:~! 
has so far proved elusive. year 1984 deficit is expected to be 
Reagan offered a personal ap-about s190 billion. praisai of his stewarship "in the first After Reagan's appearance, term" -he has yet to officially an-Democratic National Chairman nounce he will seek a second -Charles T. ,\1anatt issued a response during an impromptu appearance in saying Reagan had put the nation on the White House press room on the a course of unfairness and mis­second anniversary of his inaugura-management, and suggesting the tion. Republican president was seeing 
After two years in office, Reagan things differently from the rest ofthe continued to blame the state of the country. economy, at its worst since World "Let us hope for the good of the War II, on his predecessors. "This nation that the State of the Union as recession had been coming on for seen by President Reagan bears a several years and gradually growing fleeting resemblance to reality, worse," he said. which would be a marked improve-
Recalling that when John F. Ken-ment over his detached perfor­nedy took office he was surprised to mance in the first two failed years of find that things were as bad as he had his administration," Manatt said. been saying they were, Reagan said, Without divulging any details of "In my case, the biggest surprise was the 1984 budget he will present to finding out that they were even Congress on Jan. 31, Reagan 
worse. And it's a real human tragedy promised it would be "faiT, realistic, that so many ofour people today are and will pave the way for a strong still suffering from the political sustained recovery." mistakes of the past that we've final-Though he recently has been be­ly started to correct." sieged with criticism -from busi-
Reagan said he foresaw "an ness leaders, blacks, and American economy and an America conservatives this week alone -he on the mend." He laid out no brushed aside his problems, saying, • timetable for how long it would take "You must be doing something right to heal the country's economic ail-when you're getting rocks thrown at ments. you from both sides." 
Reagan said "nearly every And despite a recent Gallup poll economic indicator shows us found Reagan's job approval rating heading into recovery," but he did of41 percent to be much lower than not mention that unemployment has his recent predecessors at a similar increased from 7.4 percent when he point, Reagan's spirits seemed high took office to I0.8 percent last when he arrived in the press room to month. render his personal verdict of his 
Nor did Reagan, who had own presidency. promised a balanced budget by "How time flies when you're 1985, say anything about the high having fun," the president quipped. 


NewsBrieb 
Friday, January 21, 1983-page 2 
By The I Jhsen•er and The Associated Press 
The Department ofArchitecture at Notre Dame has been renamed the School of Architecture because of several differences between the degree programs of architecture and the five engineering disciplines in the College of Engineering. The change was proposed last October to the Engineering College Council, submitted to University officials and approved by the 
provost in December. As a department within the College of Engineering, the professional degree program in architecture has been perceived as an engineering program in spite ofdifferences in the accredited degree programs, national academic associations, re­quired professional internships, professional registrations, national certifications and national professional institutes. Although the School of Architecture will remain within the College of Engineer­ing, the change in designation will be reflected in the University Bulletin of Information describing architecture courses, degr'ee re­quirements, student organizations and awards under a separate "School of Architecture" listing within the College of Engineering information section. Similarly, future commencement program~ will distinguish bachelor of architecture degree recipients separately from recipients of bachelor of science in engineering degrees, though still under the general heading ofthe College ofEngineering. 
-The Observer 

Want Catllpus housing? If so, the deadline for housing contracts is Feb. 2, according to Student Government Housing Commissioner Jorge Valencia. All students planning to reside on campus next fall should receive contracts in the mail by today. Valencia suggested that students interested in off-campus housing contact the Off-Campus Housing Office on the third tloor of the Administration Building. -The Obsen•er 
An organizational meeting t~>r stud_ents. in­terested in working for the Two-Campus Nuclear heeze Coahuon will be held Sunday at -; p.m. in the Social Concerns Room in LaFortune. The gro~p is sponsoring the nuclear freeze referendum on the ballot in the upcoming student body elections. -The Ob­sen•er 
Here in South Bend, a march sponsored by the South Bend Knights of Columbus on Sunday will also recognize the tenth anniversary of the Roe 1'. W'ade pro-abortion Supreme Court decision. John M~y of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life said students are invited to attend. The march begins at the:: KofC head­quarters and concludes at St. Patrick's Church. Notre Dame Profes­sor of Law Jim Ganther will deliver an address on the abortion issue. -The Observer 
Right to Life of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will send 30 students to attend the March on Washington tomorrow to convince politicians to pass the proposed pro-life amendmc::nts. About 150,000 people are expected for this march, ten years after the famous Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision that allowed abortion on demand. The two-hour march starts at noon and goes past the White House up to Capitol Hill. The ND/SMC students will present 800 postcards from students here supporting the efforts of Right to Life. The students will leave tonight and return Sunday. The march is an annual event of National Right to Life. -The Observer 
Red roses were laid on the desks of all I 50 Indiana legis­lators yesterday in a silent protest of the landmark U.S. Supreme Court abortion rights decision. The roses, distributed by Indiana Right to Life Inc., were accompanied by a small printed card bearing the message "The American Holocaust." "This red rose is the symbol of the pro-life movement," the card read. "We present it to you on this, the lOth anniversary ofthe U.S. Supreme Court deCision legaliz­ing abortion, in memory of the more than I 5 million American babies killed by abortion since Jan. 22, 1973." On Jan. 22, 1973, the Supreme Court struck down Texas' criminal abortion law and those ofother states on the grounds that they violated women's constitu­tional right to privacy. The opinion gave women an unrestricted right to seek an abortion in the first three months of pregnancy. It also gave states the power to limit where abortions could be per­formed in the second trimester and to restrict the operation in the last three months. -AP 
An eighth-grader who had quarreled with two other students shot them with a pistol in a crowded study hall yesterday and then turned the gun on himself. He died instantly and one ofthe other boys was fatally wounded, authorities said. The third youth was taken to a hospital, where his condition was not immediately known. Police said the three had apparently become involved in an argument in the study hall at Parkway South High School in Manchester, Mo. School officials said there were 2'; other students and a teacher in the classroom at the time of the shooting. County Police Sgt. Fred Fohn said two handguns were found at the scene. All three of the youths were reported to be I 5 years old. Their names were not immediately released. -AP 
Cloudy and cold roday with a 20 percent chance for light snow late. The high will be in the low 30s. Cloudy with a 40 percent chance for snow tonight with the tow in the mid and upper 20s. Cloudy tomorrow with a good chance for snow possibly mixed with freezing rain and sleet. The high will be in the low and mid 30s. 
-AP 


The New South 
The scene: the University of Alabama, May 21, 1963. A federal district judge orders the university to admit two young blacks, Vivian Malone and James Hood, despite the wishes of Alabama Governor George Wallace. 

"I am the embodiment ofthe sovereignty ofthis state, and I will be present to bar the entrance of any Negro who atrempts to enroll," Wallace caustically states. Al­though Wallace later backs down after President Ken­nedy federalizes the Alabama National Guard, his words express the deep roots ofracism that exist in the South. 
The scene changes: the Capitol steps, Montgomery, Alabama, January 17, 1983. The wheelchair-bound 63­year-old is sworn in for his fourth term as g< ,,:rnor. 
The former segregationist looks into the(': es ofthose viewing the ceremony, white and black alike, proclaim­ing a war on the poverty and hunger that has swept the state during the administration of his predecessor, Fob James. Wallace looks determined as he pleads for the battle to be timght in racial unison, a far cry from his remarks 20 years earlier. The crowd applauds. 
Ironically (or perhaps tit­tingly). Wallace took the oath on the day much of the nation ohscrved the hirth of slain civil righb leader ,\tar· tin Luther King (an ohser­
vance  Notre  Dame all  but  
ignored).  
Wallace's  dramatic  
ideological  switch  

represents more than ju~t one politician ~eeking to en­hance his voter base. I believe his victory shows a dramatic ideological switch 
in ti1e voter base itself. 
Some may he unaware of the extensive role racism played in Southern politics over the previous decades. Wallace wa~ not alone in his segregationist views CO!l(.'erning public education. C~overnors Ross Barnett of 1\!issis~ippi and Orval Faubus of Arkansas pulled similar stunts. 
When (,eorgia elected Lester Maddox as governor in 196'-l, it entered the ranks of the absurd. Maddox had only two previous claims to fame: he knew how to ride a hicycle backwards and he once wielded an axe outside the restaurant he owned in north Atlanta to keep blacks 
from entering. 
What has caused the South to overcome such widespread racism -this "Uncle Tom's Cabin" men­tality -that permeated the Land of Grits and Okrie for so long? 
The Civil Rights Act of 1964 was perhaps the single most influential development over the past 20 years. While barring discrimination in public accomodations 
Today Father Hesburgh is: 
in California attending the Busi­ness Higher Education Forum. 

The Observer 
JJesignliditor.... .. ... Deirdre Murphy 
Design .-tssistanl .. ......... David Robinson, 
( lkirdre the Cra•y) 
La)'OUI Staff........ Tongijia,,\like :\lulligan 
1)'flese/lers..... . .... Reggie & Toni 
/Vews Editnr. . . .... Vic Sciulli 
Copy Editors .. ... Tim Neely, Carol Camp 
Featun•.fii La.vout .... ....... joe & a rbing star. Editoriuls lt~)'Ol41 ....... .......... Tari Brown sports Copy Editor.... .........\like Riccardi Sport..~· Lc~)•out .. . . .. Mikt' again 
.VD Day Editor... ........ Tim Peuer~ SMC Day Editor............ Sandy Vaknwt'la Ad Design ......... . . .. Boh Slota 
P/}()/ograpber... .... . ...... Rachcllllount 
Gut•st Appearances The: (,host of ~1oo~c:. Ellk. Christian Dior 
"lf,.e turned nint~ limes uround, 
cult/ tht! poor dfJg u•mi tlrou•ned. 
\f'e're the last oftbe Friduy ( )hsen•er." 
The Observer tUSPS S98 9201 I> publiShed Monddy through f'nday dnd on home lootball Saturddys except dunng exam dnd vacatiOn penods The Observer 1s published by the students ol Notre Dame dnd Sa1nt Mdry s Col lege Subswpt1ons mdy be purchased for $25 per yedr tS 15 per se,ne~ter) by wnt1ng· The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame 1na1and 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press Atl reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 

mARDI GRAS SNOW SCULPTURE CONTEST 
Jan 29-30th!! theme: ffiARDII GRAS 
Sketches of sculptures should be handed in to the student act~ivities offiCe by Jan. 25. 
Sculptures W'ill be judged on theme and 

originality 

Winning sculptors will be awarded DJ SERVICES for their hall's next party. 
Dave Sarphie 
Assistant News Editor Inside Frid 

and providing federal aid to desegregated schools, the act prohibited the blatant discrimination that had prevailed at the polls. 
By disallowing unfair literacy tests and polling taxes, the government gave the black man a political voice, a voice that has become increasingly significant. In addi­tion to electing black mayors in such important cities as Atlanta and New Orleans, blacks have made politicians in all cities aware of their problems and needs. 
By this, I do not mean to suggest that blacks have simply out-voted whites for their respective candidates. Andrew Young, former United States ambassador to 
the United Nations, gar­


1lorn 
nered support from all sec­
v11 , I 
tions ofAtlanta in his victory last year. 
nqalfl, 
A ~econd cause ti.>r the ideological switch toward racial unity is the increased population in the Sun Belt. While the population grew by only 0.2 pc::rcent in the Northeast between 1970 and 19HO, the South grew by 20 percent during that same period. 
This population shift, though primarily relocating conservative whites, has 
brought to the South people unable to accept the tradi­tional Southern hypocracies. Their attitudes have diluted the attitudes of the old-timers who refuse to change. 
Ofcourse, one could just as easily develop arguments to contradict those I have submitted. They could propose that Wallace's was a purely political, non­ideological victory over a weak opponent. They could term Lester Maddox's <·urrent comedy tour with a black partner as a publicity stunt. 
But I don't think anrone can deny the looser, more positive feeling one gets when walking the streets ofan Atlanta, a Montgomery, a New Orleans. Race is no lon­ger the all-important issue. And that's at least a step in the right direction. 
The z•iews expressed in the Inside column are the views of their author and do not necessarily express the views of The Observer or its editorial 
board. 
----·-----------­
The Observer 
Now irreparable 



Fieldhouse to fall in March 
By MOLLY KINNUCAN 
Neu•sStaff 
Saying that it "has passed the point of u~,eful life," Director of Physical Plant Donald Dedrick announced that the Old Fieldhouse will be torn down the second week of March. 
In its place, according to Dedrick, "a beautiful mall area will be con­structed. We all should be very hap­py with the results." 
Since 1969, the Fieldhouse has been the home of the Notre Dame Art Department. According to Thomas ~. Ft:ru, itistn..:ctor of drawing, painting, and design, "when we got the Fieldhouse, it was a blessing." 
The tieldhouse provided an ideal atmosphere for the students of past years. Says Fern, "The personality of the NO student was very different.. They had an enormous amount ·of freedom and liberty. They built huge things for the tirst time." 
Before the move to the fieldhouse, the art facilities had been scattered in roughly five different buildings. The· department as a whole had little unity, and rhe sru­dents had scarce opportunity to in­teract and observe the operations of their fellow artists. 
The recently renovated chemistry 
building is the new home for the Art 
Department. The reactions ofthe art 
students ro the new facilities 
generally have been positive. Dan 
Shannon, a tifth-year architequre 
student, commented on "the fine 
renovation ofa building again in bad 
condition." 
Fern also noted, "The students al­
ready have a different attitude here." 
Anne Burns, a t1fth-year ar· chitecturc major. feels "something should have been done ten years ago about preserving the Old Fieldhouse. They cannor do it now, because it is beyond restoration." 
An arcnirecture student drew up plans for remodeling the t1cldhouse in 1969. These plans included the building of three floors of new rooms in the area of the basketball court. Six large lecture rooms with a capacity of 150 seats each were to replace the bleachers. The cost of the entire project, including a com­pletely new roof, would have been 
S500,000. "You have to be realistic about the way it is now," says graduate student and teaching assistant Kurt Labitzke. 
"It's great that we are moving; it should bring a lot of new students into the department." 
The new building will provide professors like Fern, who has been teaching at Notre Dame for 16 years, with rhe opportunity to enjoy their own studios on campus. 
Even so, Fern added that he "hates to see it go because it got to have qute a reputation in the art world. They were very envious of us be­cause we had a building you could not hurt." 
Mild winter weather cuts maintenance costs 
By MARY EASTERDAY 
News Staff 
With the lack of extreme winter weather this year. the Notre Dame maintenance department has seen a reduction in costs. Personnel, however, have used the extra time to work on projects usually done 
later in the year. 
"Because of the mild winter weather we've had this year, we are now two months ahead of schedule on grounds maintenance," said John Moorman. director of maintenance. The manpower that is normally used for snowplowing during these win­
ter months has been used to clean 
out shrub beds, rake leaves, replace 
sod, and plant -,0 new maple trees 
on juniper and Douglas Roads. 
Moorman said that normally at this time of the winter they have applied 200 tons ofslag sand and salt on snowy and icy streets and sidewalks. Less than 10 con~ have been used so far. Personnel costs as well as maintenance costs are lowered as a result since all slag sand that is spread must be removed from the sidewalks later. Less slag sand and salts also mean less deteriora­tion to the streets and sidewalks. 
Snowplowing is one of the roug­hest operations on the grounds and equipment. Moorman said they have not had to usc any major ,snow removing equipment. which has eliminated the usual repair and maintenance costs. 
There has been no damage done ro fences, shrubs and sod by snowpiling because of the lack of snow. 
The maintenance ilepartment worked 42 consecutive days last january and February removing snow. :\loorman estimares that it takes approximately I 0 to 12 hours to completely plow all ofthe streets, sidewalks and parking lots after a snowstorm. 
"Unless we are plowing snow in April or :\lay. it should be a good winter for grounds and main­tenance," Moorman predicted. 
Overcome the slump 

SMC sponsors sophomore week 
By MARY ANN POTIER 
StaffReporter 
The "It's Great To Be A Sopho­more Week," spo 1sorcd by the Saint Mary's Sophomore Council, will begin tomorrow with a different ac­tivity planned each day of the week for students. Organizers hope that the week will help sophomores overcome the "sophomore slump" they think many sophomores ~uffer from at this time ofyear. 
''Screw-Your-Roommate Tubing" at Bendix Woods will begin the week of fe~tivitics tomorrow night from ~p.m. to I 0 p.m. Following the tubing will he a party in the Holy Cross Hall parlors with a WSND disc jockey and refreshments. 
The activitie~ planned for Sunday include a SophomoreClass :\tass at 
11:30 a.m. in Regina Chapel. Sopho­mores will have the opportunity to go icc skating at the ACC from 9:45 
p.m. 
to 11:15 p.m. A senior/sophomore party will be held Monday from 5:30p.m. to 7:30 

p.m. 
in the Holy Cross parlors. 


Sophomore Recreation Night will take place in Angela Athletic Center Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. Vol­leyball, basketball, racquetball ami aerobics will be available for sopho­
mores'  participation  with  pizza  
prizes  awarded  ro  the  winning  
teams.  

There will be an"Ice Cream Boat" Wednesday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in Regina l\iorth basement. The Sopho­more Council has planned a Happy Hou t r wirh Morrissey :\tan or from 5 
p.m. to 7 p.m for next Friday. 
The activities will end with the Sophomore Clas~ Ski Trip which is planned in cooperation with the Notre Dame Sophomore Council. The ~ki trip will be at Timberidgc Ski Resort next Saturday and Sunday. Originally, 220 students were signed up for the trip, but because of cancellations, only 176 will make the trip, according to ski trip com­missioners Annie Sawicki and Joe Hirl. 
The purpose ofthe week is\o help sophomores through the "sophomore slump." accordng to Sophomore Class President Cara Hageman. "I think sophomore year is a dittkult one to get through. School is net new and exciting anymore, yet there is still a long road to graduation. I think sophomore year is a really special year that can still be enjoyed so we sponsor a week ro give sophomores a break from the everyday routine, to see how special Saint \lary's can he, and 
to show that sophomore year isn't all hard work," she said. The sopho­more class officers have had the idea for the "It's Great To Be A Sopho­more Week" since beginning their terms. "The council, especially so­cial commissioners Tracy Brin­gardner, Mary Sue Dunn, and Dchhie Pascente, have been working hard on the week's activities for about two months," Hageman said. "I think it is a great opportunity. We have worked very hard to make it a great week for sophomores and we hope they take advantage of it," Hageman added. 
A week such as this had never been planned for ~ophomores before. according to Hageman. "\l'e hope to start a new tradition at Saint :\lary's for sophomores," she added. 

Student government announces elections 
Student Government has announced the following important dates and meetings. 
Monday,jan. 24 
•7:00 
p.m. ,\landatory meeting for SBP/SB\'P candidates in Stu· dent Government oftkes. Official petitions will be passed out. 

•8:.30 
-Mandatory meeting for Student Senate candidates in Stu­


dent Government oftkcs. Official petitions will be passed out. Friday,jan. 28 
•5:00 p.m. -Petitions due in Ombudsman office for SBP/SBVP and 
Student Senate. Monday,Jan. 31 
•12:0 
1 a.m. -Campaigning begins. Monday, Feb. 7 

• 
I I :59 p.m. -Campaignng ends. Tuesday, Feb. 8 

•All 
day-Elections. VVednesday,Feb.9 

•All 
day -Run-off elections (if nec~ssary) 


---~---~-­
Friday,January 21, 1983-page 3 

David Stephenitch, a freshman from Fisher Hall, looks through the selection ofposters cwailable at the .Hol'ie Poster Sale u•hicb endedyesterday in La F_ortune. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIItltlllllllllllllllllllllll 
tt.D. F.L.O.C. 
Support Committee 
First informational and organizational meeting Re: Cambqll•s Boycott RClfClrClndum Monday, Jan. 24 Hayes-Healy Aud.8:00pf!1 
All students, faculty, &staff (including newcomers) are welcome! 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 





:tdwalfon 
f wit-h special guest 
RED RIDER 
Saturday, Feb. 19 8 PM Notre Dame A. C. C. All seats reserved: $11.50 & $10.50 
Tickets on sale Mon.. Jan.24 at A.C.C. Box office only. Tickets on sale Tuesday at A.C.C. Box Office, Sears (University Park Mall, Orchard mall. Pierre Moran Mall, & the Catalogue Store). Robertson's (South Bend & Concord Mall), St. Joe Bank (main branch), The Elkhart Truth J.R.'s (LaPort), and World Records (Goshen). 


------~ ---~ 
----~ ~---------­
The Observer Friday,January 21, 1983-page 4 

I _.u{t,n;!;"" fl()lit"< O]ji,t'i lt.!<Ld~ ubuut (,,{)()()pro­liu:r beld <l r.tl~l wttl t'isited Siale Legislators. (AI' ltfe demonstrators on a march to the Statehouse where Pboto) 
PORTLAND, Ort:. ( AP) -A man 
claiming to have a bomb and ~aying 
he wanted to go to Afghanistan 
hijacked a Northwest Airlines jet­
liner carrying '-II people from Seattle 
to Portland yesterday, authorities 
said. 
The Boeing ~ 2"' landed at 
Porrland International Airport on 
schedule at 2 p.m. PST and was 
detained ncar an "isolation trailer" 
close to the: airport fire department 
while: the fBI negotiated. 
No injuries were reported to any 
of the ~S passengt:rs or six crew 
members aboard flight 60H. 
FHI negotiators were talking with the crew hy radio, said Suzanne Whittleld, Portland airport spokes­woman. fBI negotiator Dorwin Schreuder was at the scene, she said. and a bomb squad stood hy. 
Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Denni:~ Feldman in Washington said the pilot reported a~ the plane was north of Porrland that there was "a lujacker aboard claiming to have a homh." 
.\Is. Whittkld said the hijacker was a man and had no accomplices. She -.:~id ht' \V:tnTt>d tn ·~n :o Af~hant.'­tan but th~· Uoemg -..:-uuc:~ uot have enough range to get there. 



ENGINEERS/COMPUTER SCIENCE GRADUATES 
We're McDonnell Douglas-one of the world's leaders in fast moving. exciting fields. military and commercial aircraft. missiles. spacecraft. electronics. automation and health services. 
And we're looking for people who are looking for the oppor­tunity to put what they've learned to work-people like you 
What we offer is a wide variety of advanced technical pro­jects and a chance to get involved. really involved. in pro­grams on the leading edge of technology. 

Man hijacks jetliner over Pacific Northwest 
So. if you're an engineer or computer specialist who wants a job with real responsibility. sign up at your Placement Office for an interview. 
We'll be on campus: 
Monday, February 14, 1983 
/ 

MCDONNELL 
DOUGL~, 

An equal opportunity employer ,~ 
U.S. Citizenship required 
Brent Basktlcld. vice president for communications of Northwest Airlines, said in \linneapolis that the airline and law enforcement agencies "have marshaled every pos­sible resource to ensure the safetv of the passengers and the crew and to bring about the successful termina­tion ofthis incident." 
Darrell Bwttice, an airport spokes­man, said other operations continued normally. 
One ofthe most famous hijackings · in history also involved a Northwest jet that was flying from Seattle. On Thanksgiving Eve 19"'1. a man iden­titled only as D.B. Cooper parachuted over southwest Wash­ington taking with him S200.000 he had extorted from the airline. 
Cooper has not been seen sinct·. 

hut S'i,HOO in soggv S20 hills wa~ 
t()lmd by a boy on the shore of the 
Columbia River near Portland in 
February 19HO. 
The most recent domestic hijad· ing attempt came on the night of Dec ~0. when an unemployed pilot. threatening ro detonate a bomb. tried to take over :1 l :nited Airline­
---t~L.lgo to -'Itt., 'tl'-·•· 
Michael _lames \\ tli. ~0. ol Colorado Springs, Colo.. who said he wanted to he flown to Washington. wa~ persuaded to surrender peace­fully. He was not carrying any ex­plosives. 
Hijac:dngs. which plagued the nation's airlines during the 19"'0s declined drastically after September l9HO. when Cuhan President Fidel Castro vowed 10 punish air pirates who hijacked planes to his island na· tion. The Cuban government said it would either return hijackers to the United States for prosecution, or punish them in Cuba. 
f~conomists 


expect low inflation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Inflation, slowed hy the recession. likely ran around 4. S percent last year to turn in irs best performance in a decade. 
economists say. 
"It was a very good year on infla· tion," Allen Sinai, senior economist at the Lexington, Mass., consulting firm of Data Resources Inc.. said in advance of today's release of the final 1982 price tally. 
Sinai and other private economists were expecting the in­crease in the Labor Department's Consumer Price Index to he well un­der the 8. 9 percent in 1981 and the 
12.4 percent in 1980. 
In December alone. economists were looking for consumer prices to hold steady or, at the most, climb a tiny 0.1 percent to 0.2 percent. after seasonal adjustment. They even said there was a chance of a slight dip in those costs, which, if so. would be the second time in a year they ac­tually fell. 
Consumer prices rose 0. I percent 
in November and 0. S percent in Oc­
tober. 
In addition to the recession. the 

improved inflation results have been 
attributed to plentiful harvests and 
the worldwide oil surplus which ha~ 
led to softer gasoline and homl' 
heating oil prices. 
Another major inflation measure, the Producer Price Index for tlnished goods, also recorded its best performance in 1982 since the early I970s. 
The departmem reported last week that the index climbed 3. S per­cent last year, the smallest rise since 1971 and less than half the gain of 1981. 
The Observer Friday, January 21, 1983 --page 5 

Elections commissionerjohn Quinn briefed potential SBP can­didates ( l to r) john Gallagher, Tim Conne~v andjay Zaback last n i!(ht on the secondfloor ofLa Fortune. (Photo byRachelB/ount) 
LINCOLNWOOD, Ill. (AP)-Mil­
lionaire mob t1gure Allen Dortinan. 
convicted· last month of conspiring 
to bribe a l:.s. senator on behalf of 
the Teamsters union, was shot and 
killed yesterda~· afternoon in a hotel 
parking lot, police said. 
Dorfman. 60. was shot in the head 
at 1:07 p.m. while walking toward 
the Lincolnwood Hyatt Hotel in this 
north Chicago suburb for lunch with 
associate Irwin Weiner. according 
to Lincolnwood Police Chief Daniel 
:\1artin. The two had stopped at a 
nearby bank before the shooting. he 
said. 
Weiner was walking in front of 
Dorfman when two men ap­
proached. "announced a holdup and 
began shooting," Martin said. 
, Dorfman was shot at least five times in the side and back of the head "at close range," Martin said. At least five spent .22-caliber shell casings were found at the scene, he added. In recent years, .22-caliber handguns have been a calling card of organized crime. 
After the shooting, the gunman tucked the gun in his belt, pulled a ski mask over his head and ran, Mar­tin said. 
Asked if he would characterize the killing as "gangland style," Mar­tin replied, "At this time, it's ap­parently a murder. I don't want to 
Unknown assailant 

Mobster Dorfn1an shot in hotel lot 
Social Securiy reform 

Commission offers new plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Na­
tional Commission on Social 
Securitv Reform sent President 
Reagan· yesterday its S168 billion 
blueprint for pulling the system 
back from the brink of a financial 
crisis that threatens to delay 
retirees· checks this summer. 
A m:~jority also recommended gradually rabing the normal retire­ment age from 65 to 66. If Congress approves. en·ryone born since 1938 would he affected. 
Thl· change would he phased in one month a. year ~o that those horn in 19-t9 or later would have to wait 
continuedfrom page I 
broke away and burned up in the at­mosphere. 
The remainder of the space vehicle. along with a small uniden­tit1ed piece traveling with it. has been descending in orbit since. 
Catto estimated that the satellite orbit is "decaying" at a rare ofabout seven kilometers (about -1.-1 mile~) a day. 
This is more than twice as fast a~ 
C.S. expens detected problems with it after the Soviets failed in an effort to separate the I ,(}()0-pound reactor ~ection from the rest of the space­~hip and to send it into a "parking orbit" where it~ more than I00 pounds of radioactive materials would stav safelv in ~pace for 'iOO year~ or longer. 
The ~atdlite began tumbling and 
one part, helieved to he an antenna, the ~atellite was tallmg earlier thi~ week. 
Expert~ ~aid the "burn" 'hould ~t,trt at ahout 162 kilometer~· al­
titude.  or  ~1hout  I 0 I  miles abm·e  
earth.  
It  i~  uncertain  how long it  will  

take :\orth American Aero~pace Defeme Command specialbb to determine where the debris will have fallen. 
Since most l -~-~en~or~ point toward the northern hemisphere ­the area of mo~t Soviet mi~~ile and space launch activity -oftkials said until age 66 to draw full Social Security benefits. The retirement age also eventually would go up automatically with any gains in life expectancy. 
That wa~ not part of the com­promise rescue plan that President Reagan and House Speaker Thomas 
P. ()':"Jeill endorsed Saturday night after the pact was approved by 12 of the commission's I 'i members. 
The centerpiece of the plan is a six-month delay in this.July's cost-of­iving increase t(>r Social Security'~ .~6 million beneficiarit:~; higher payroll taxes in 198-t. 19HH and 
... Debris 
the experts probably could come up with a relatively quick position t1x if 
• the remains of the ~atellite land in that region. 
But. they said. it may he more dif­t1cult and require certain computer calculations if the satellite debris comes to earth in the southern hemisphere. 

1989 for employees and employers; a permanently higher payroll tax on tht• sclfemployed starting in 198-t; taxation of one-half of benefits f(Jr middle-and upper-income retirees; and bringing all new federal workers and non-protlt groups into the sys­tem next year. 
The payroll tax would jump from the current 6. ~percent to ~ percent on Jan. I. For 198-t only, workers would get a tax credit against their income taxes to cu~hion them from paying any extra tax overall. The commi~sion also endorsed boosting the 9.3'i percent levy on the self­employed to 12.-percent next year. while allowing them to deduct half of the old age and disability tax ­not the ,\1edicare portion -as a business expense. 
The rescue plan also includes a so­called stabilizer that could trim cost­of-living increases in 1988 and beyond if the trust funds fall below a 20 percent reserve level. 
The package would not only soh'e Social Security's crisis in the 1980s, but it would wipe out two-thirds of the system's long-range S1.6 tri:lion deficit over the next '5 years. 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival =ashion Show Committee presents "A MASTERPIECE" a student fashion show M Seeking all students interested in being a MODEL, EMCEE, OR STAGE WORK. Pick up information in the Black Studies Office, 345, O'Shag. For more information call Greg 233-7328 or Regina 283-4634  

The Centerfor Social Concerns 
announces an 

OPEN HOUSE 
NDU Students Q ­
Faculty and ~iJ /
Staff lnuited ~ 
Friday, January 21, 1983 3:30-5:30pm~
'I 
characterize as to what kind of a murder it was." 
Martin said police were question­ing four witnesses. including Weiner. 
Dorfman was facing up to 55 years in prison as a result of his conviction in the Teamsters bribery-conspiracy case. At a news conference, U.S. At­torney DanK. Webb "categorically" denied that Dorfman was cooperat­ing with law enforcement officials. 
However, Wehh said that because of Dorfman's background in or­ganized crime, it "always raises the specter in the mind of criminal as­sociates that he could possibly cooperate some day" and that en­hanced the likelihood that he would be killed. 
Edward Hegarty, head of the FBI's oftke in Chicago, said "It's part and parcel (that) close association with La Cosa Nostra often leads to sudden death." La Cosa Nostra, Italian for "our thing," ha~ often been used as a name for organized crime. 
Weiner was not injured. Martin said. He said Weiner was in his 60s and lived in the Chicago suburb of Niles. Weiner and Dorfman were tried in 1973 in connection with an alleged fraud in the Teamsters union 
pension fund.  Both  men  were  ac­ 
quitted.  
Dorfman  was  identified  by  of­ 

ficers at the scene through identification on his body. His body was taken to Skokie Valley Com­munity Hospital. Officials there declined comment pending notifica­tion of relatives. 

Reached at the family home in the north suburb of Deerfield, a son james told a reporter, "I have no comment." 
In 196'· two masked gunmen fired sawed-off shotguns at a car driven by Dorfman. but he and a companion escaped harm in that at­tack. 
For more than 30 years, through confrontations in court and in Congress, Dorfman had a grip on the murky billion-dollar business of Teamsters loans, land deals and in­surance. The FBI said he maintained 
known links to organized crime. 
On Dec. 15, Dorfman, along with Teamsters President Roy Williams and three others, was convicted of conspiring to bribe former U.S. Sen. Howard Cannon, D-Nev., for his help in blocking a trucking deregulation bilL Dorfman faced up to 55 years in prison at a sentencing scheduled for Feb. 10. 
Cannon, who was defeated for re­election in November, has not been indicted and the bill passed with his support. 
In a copyright interview with the Kansas Ci~)' Times on Dec. 21, Wil­liams proclaimed his innocence of the charges and accused Dorfman of being a "braggart" who "manipulated" others to further his own interests. 
,.....,_,....,..~~ ...... -...._.......,_ • ....,.._.................._.~•..,...........~~.................................,4 
. ~
lSINGERS, GUITARISTS, I 
~  AND OTHER  ~  
~  INSTRUMENTALISTS  ~  
~  ~  
~ ~ ~  ~  SACRED HEART PARISH NEEDS YOU!  '  ~ ~ ~  
~ ~ ~ ~ ~  Please call the Parish Office (239-7511) or Mollie Bernard (255-7139)!  ~ · ~ ~ ~  

L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 
NOTRE DAME STl!DENT lJNION 
PRESENTS 
SPRING BREAK ~~DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 11 -20, 198.1 
Arrtultt.'mtfftl by ECHO TR.I{ J!EL, /\( 

MCH2571F ....IJ. SIX PER ROOM TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
R,1und tnp motor.:oach tran,portatiOn hJ modern high'!'-&) C<laLhr\hl Da~tona Bca.::h. f-londa le.\itng Fnd•~· March II. 

• 
Sc:\c:n Oll!:hl\ o~.:cnmmodo~uon\ at the: ucttmg Plaza Hotel of



$185 

Da\tonil Beach l.oc.ttc:ddt600SonhAtlantw: Ave .IllS the mo\t dc:mandrd hotel on the strip at that umc: 
• '\ uul} grc:<~.l ..chc:dulc: of act11<11ICS mdudms our famous ponl dC'ck parllC'\ and bC'Jiy nop contest 
FOl'R PER R00.\1 • Optmnal C"xcun•un~ d~dilablc 10 Dt~nc~ World. EP"'ot, and ~C'H~ral othC"r auracuon\ 
• 'umC"rou§ b.u and restaurant dtscounu. 
. • fhc \CHICC~ tlf fuJI 11mc lfii\'C] rtpTC\Chi.III~C!

$199 

• 
;\II ta.o:.c~ and gratuuues 

• 
(,uar<~.ntccd lrdtChC"ncnc or oceanfront nallablc at small <~.ddtllonal chargC' 14 per room onl)) 


A Ql.'AUTYTRIP-ALOWPRICE-A GREATTIME 
J h~ l'l.uo~ ll••tt:!. lolt:atnl ''.!!hi rn the mtddle <Jf the ~mr •~ dcltnllely the pia~ to be durma .pnng nrc.. ~ ·\,Jr. dn~•ln..-"'hu hd, heC"n t<• Da~tollll The hutel ha\ a pool. btJ pany dect, ,,-,to~urdut. l••ur h"''· ..nlur 1 \ .ut ... mdttuJncd tuom~ <~.nd plcnt~ of actt\lllts Pu;."ture' arc ,,.td.thk "'here '"u "!!"up Our mutur Coile he\ an: nothtnjl butthe h1ghcst qualuy hi(l.hWa)• ""J<.hc' \1. ~· .tl'<l ,!!1\t' \OU m••rc c.\frd, u.tth our tnp thanan\onc cl'c Don't hlo"' ttand soon ",,......, <lu.tht\ tnp L.-tST lEAR OJ ER 8.{)()(1 PEOPLE E.'iJOt'ED THIS TRIP 
SIG'O l'P 'OOW AT THE TH KET OFFICE/RECORD STORE :\10'0.-FRI. 10 AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 
The Observer Friday, January .21, 1983-page 6 
·---­



Karma Ibsen-Riley. above, playwright and actress, will open Women's Opportuni~v Week at Saint Mary's Sunday with an 8 p.m. presentation ofher play "Nine Women." Jbsen-Riley is one offive prominent career women who will be visiting Saint Mary's next week to participate in the WOW celebration. For more informa­tion, see story• at right. (Photo by Mercer) 
~~~..o...~..HM..~--.0~~~~.­
Q'S 

~t·(\(\\(\9 1516 N. Ironwood '-~ FQctory just east of campus Man-Sat 11 am-1 am sun 4pm-12:30am 
Live Entertainment and Dancing 
m starting at 8pm Sunday and 9pm Wed-Sat liiiii._E.di.so•n..d Full Dining Available till midnight Your Host-Ron 0/aere, NO '64' l 
~~..~..~--~~..~..M~~~ 
l 
A. 
C. 
1636 N. Ironwood 

C. 
0 Ph. 277-6155

...--..~ 
-6566

Edison 
0 
0 Deliveries Available 
d 
toND&SMC 

BEER AND WINE Available on Sundays too! 
Francesco's Italian Dining Original Southern Italian Home Cooking 'Everything is a' homemade' 
Specializing in: Spaghetti a Ia Carbonara 
Melanzam-stuffed egg plant 
Bracioli alia Calabrese­stuffed beef roll 
And a variety of pasta and sandwiches. 
Also featuring Francesco's Four Season Pizza 

Francesco is a former chef of the Holy Cross Fathers for over 21 years 

wow Opportunity Week opens Sunday 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
S<ll'nt .Wttr)''s J::xecutit•e Editor 
A playwright. a Jiplomat-turncd· author, an Enghsh professor, a doc­tor and a syndicated newspaper columnist vbiting Saint Mary's next week all have something in com­mon. 
They are all women. 
Presentati<ll1~ hy t1ve professional women will highlight Saint Mary's ~ixth annual Women's Opportunity Week, opening Sunday at the Col­lege. 
Women's Opportunity Week (WOW) is a week dedicated to "commemorating the lives of women and (their) lifestyle~ ... according to Erin Flood, coor­dinator of next week's activities. 
!\.anna Ihscn-Riley, a playwright and actress, will present her critically-acclaimed three-act play .'Vine Women Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Little Theatre of ,,loreau II all. 
The drama features a series of monologues, three in each act, of nine different women who Ihsen­Rilcy has befriended during her life. An unique aspect of the play is the on-stage costume and makeup changes. Nine Women is directed by Gary Ambler. 
The play was first presented in Champaign, Ill., and Ibsen-Rilcy ha~ since staged it throughout the Mid­west. 
Ibsen-Rilcy received a bachelor's and master's degree in theatre from the University of Nebraska. She cur­rently lives in Champaign where she works as a playwright, composer. director, actress, musician, teacher and part-time bartender. The wife of a University of Illinois anthropology professor and mother of three children, lhsen-Riley also has writ­ten an award·winning children's play, A Scoop ofChicken on a Turtle 
Soup Cone. 
Louisa Kennedy, who served as spokesperson for the families of the hostages held in Iran, will he WOW's featured speaker on Monday. Ken­nedy will speak on "Risk Taking: Choice. Chance and Challenge" at H 
p.m. Monday in Carrollllall 
Kennedy, who attended Sarah Lawrence College, acted a~; spokesperson of the Family Liaison Action Group in Washington. D.C., while her husband was held hostage. Kennedy resigned from the l'.'->. State Department and currently h involved with the building project of St. John's Cathedral as well as directing the Catl,edral Peace In­stitute. 
Kennedy will abo gin· a pre~cnta­tion with her husband. \loorhead C. Kcnne~h, Jr.. hmner acting economic counselor at the l .s. Em· bassy in Tehran, at i\iotrc Dame on Tuesday The couple will speak at H 
p.m. In the I.ihrarv Auditorium. Thai presentation is sponsored hy the 
Uo£wdeert ~Oit flw ~ceuJ­F~ U~ifufimt 'P'WlJ'Witt at St. 9Mepk Jttediwe ~ 
IRS TAX TIPS 
On Accuracy ­
When filing your tax return you or her use your label and can help yourself to a taster envelope), refund and save time and effort by: 
-Checking your math, 

-Attaching your W-2s from • Signing the return (you all your employers, 
and your spouse must both 

sign if married and filing -Attaching all supporting jointly). documents and schedules, 
-Using the pre-addressed label and coded envelope (and if you pay a preparer have him '\Jotrc Dame Student l :nion. 

On Tuesday \lary llarrb \'ceder. a 196-J graduate of Saint \lary's and currently an associate professor of English at I .ndiana University­Northwest, will discuss "Working Out and Working In: Advice Across the Ages." The presentation will be at ..., p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in 
I.eMans. 
Veeder received her master's and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Calit(>rnia-Bcrkcley. Her published works include NeKation ami ApocozJ•pse: Style and Vision in Aelred ofRievaulx and Women and .Hen: Aduentures in Search of Our­selt•es. 
Another alumna, Dr. Kathryn Met­tler, will he the WOW speaker on Wednesday. She will discuss "Women in \kdicinc in the 1980s" at 8 p.m. in Carrollllall. 
Mettler, a 1963 graduate of saint Mary's, worked in cancer research at Abbott Laboratories and taught religious education. She entered medical school in 1977 at Emory University and currently is in residency in radiology at Emory Uni­versity affiliated hospitals. She plans to begin practlcmg internal medicine in July. 
The WOW speaker series will 
conclude on Thursday with a speech 
by nationally-syndicated newspaper 
columnist Niki Scott. Scott will 
speak on "Working Women" at 7 
p.m. in Carroll Hall. Her column, "Working Women," appears in over I SO newspapers in the United States and offers advice and suggestions to working women and their families. 
WOW was initiated in 1978 by three senior~ at the College. accord­ing to Flood. II wa~ originated be­cause the students felt Saint .\lan··s. as a leading women's instituti~m. should have a celebration of woman's role in society. 

Flood said that the College tries to 

add something to WOW each year. 
"The speakers used to be mainlv 
professors on campus. Each year w~ 
try to do something different." 
This year a "Women's Fair" will 

take place on Wednesday from 10 
a.m. to -i p.m. in the LeMans Lohbv. The Fair will includt· booth~ and di~­plays from the League of Women Voters. the Saint \lary's Alumnae As­sociation, the local chapter of the National Organization for Women. 
and other organizations. The group~ will be soliciting for membership and handing out information about their organizations. 
WOW included a "Woman's Fair" several years ago, hut next week's will he much larger, according to Flood. 
Many prestigious women have visited Saint Mary's during past Women's Opportunity Weeks. 
Last year Jane Trahey, columnist, author and president of a Chicago advertising firm spoke. 
In 1980, Pulitzer Prize winner Gwendolyn Brooks made a presentation. 
Betty Friedan, author and founder of the National Organization for Women, spoke in 1978. 
WOW is sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Government. 
All performances and lectures during the series arc free and open to the public. 

CJJlf VUe 32421uj 9rut 29 


Karma  Ibsen-Riley­ Actress- 
Playwrite,  Sunday,  8  p.m.,  
Little Theater  
Louisa  Kennedy  Lecturer­ 
Author,  Monday,  S  p.m.,  

Carroll Hall Mary Harris Veeder -English 
professor, Tuesday, ' p.m., Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall Kathryn Mettler Physician, 
Wednesday, 8 p.m., Carroll Hall Niki Scott -:'llewspaper columnist, Thursday, 7 p.m., Carroll Hall Women's Fair -W'ednesday, 10 
a.m. to -1 p.m., LeMans Lobby 

A pubhc serv1ce message from t~e Internal Revenue Serv1ce 
·-----.----· 
I'he Observer Friday,January 21, 1983 page 7 
-----·--­'Seemed a moral man' 
---------------------------·-----­
Victimized woman testifies 

PHOE:"'ilX. Ariz. (AP)-A woman who agreed to nurrv alleged bigamist Giovanni \'igliotto testified yesterda\· that he seemed to be "a ·moral man... but eventually took otf with the remains of her store inven­
tory. 

"It secm~:d to me he was a moral 
man, a truthful man. a sincere man · 
more importantly. a gentleman." tes­
titled Joan Bacarella. -1S. of 
:\lanalapan, :--.:.,1. 
But \'igliotto. her van and a rented 
truck tilled with S-!0,000 of her mer­
chandise vanished as she waited 
fruitlessly for him in Sarasota. Fla.. 
she said. 
"I realized that I had heen vic­
timized. and my prince turned into a 
frog." she said. 
Two women who did marry 
\'igliotto have testified they also met 
him at tlea markeb and that he 
vanished with thousands of dollars 
worth of their goods shortly after 
their vows were exchanged. 
Highest unemployment rate 
West Virginia suffers 'depression' 
CHARLESTON, W.\'a. (AP) ­II undreds of state workers got pink ,Jips this week. Gm·. Jay Rockefeller gave up his salarv. and his wik gave up serving shrimp at the governor's mansion. 
These are signs of the times in Wt·st Virginia. where the nation's hight·st unemployment rate and a state government heading for a con­~tituuonalh prohibited dei!Cit have oftkiab talking "depression" instead of"recession... 
Rockefeller·~ ~acritlces are merelv 'vmbolic ti>r a man who spent SI 1.6 million of his own money two years ago 10 win re-election. But he is presiding over what his finance commissioner calls the state's worst 
tlnancial crisis since the Great 
Depression. 
On WednesdaY. Rockefeller an­nounced drastic cutbacks in state ~pl·ntling to avert a 591 million ddkit at the end of the tlscal year June :'>11. West Virginia's constitution prohibits detlcit spending. 
While the Rockefdlers make do without shrimp and with three fewer housekeeper.~. state services to the poor arc being cut back even as state government layoffs increase the number of unemployed. 
Storms, cold weather batter U.S. 
A winter storm iced Dixie from \tississippi to the Carolinas on Thursdav. closing schools. knocking 
•>ut power and glazing highways, while hurricane-ti>rce winds buf leted the Gulf Coast. 
The tierce winds. boiling 2'; foot 'Ca." .~wampcd boats. tore an oil rig loose trom its mooring, and con­tributed to coastal t1ootling from ; ouisiana to florida. 
"it·hools closed in many Deep ·;outh cnk'~. including Atlanta and "'"'l'lllgham .\Ia.. as road., were 
. ; r•.l with treal·herous freezing 
!·,tin. -let·t .111d ~n<lW. 
The homes and businesse~ of 
.thout 2'iO.OOO people at-ros~ 
. \lah;un:l lost power and Hirmin­
g.lum \l:!yor Rich:1rd Arrington 
"gneJ an emergenC\' disaster order. 
(;ov. (;corge \'\'allace called oft' a 
;,pl·oal session of the Legislature. 
\lanv cities of the :\ortheast were numhed hv record cold and the cwwds grew at shelters for the 
See SNOW, page 8 
State funding has been eliminated for local social ~ernce agencies for six months. I.OSO state jobs are heing eliminated permanently and a mental hospital and boys· correc­tional center are being closed. 
The cuts were announced a few 
hours after the LS. Lahor Depart­
ment pegged West Virginia's un­
employment at !6.-1 percent. tied 
with :\lichigan as worst in the nation. 
Road maintenance and construc­tion are at a virtual standstill in a state still plagued hy inadequate transportation. :\lore than a fourth of the miners are unemployed in West Virginia. whose economic health depends on coal and steel. 
"The soup lines are back; depres­sion days are plaguing us again,'' said \1arshall County Assessor Alfred Clark. 

Clark says he plans to cut property taxes on Wheeling-Pittsburg Steel Corp.'s Benwood plant to S6 in an attempt to protect :'>SO threatened jobs. But State Tax Commissioner ~ed Rose. whose agency is desperate ti.>r revenue. says the move is illegal and has threatened to have Clark jailed. 
Clark said Tuesday he will take the consequences. 
"It hoils down to this." he said. "We either have a plant there with .)SO jobs. or possihh no plant at all." 
Volunteers arc organizing to provide help to the estimated 90,000 unemployed. and the un· counted people who gave up looking for work and so arc not in­cluded in the jobless statistics. 

Live for God and His People as a ... 
Capuchin 
a what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a religious fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in 

• the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's 
• world. ;~~:-..-Join us in pro_moting peace, education, ~ Jl and JUStice--m ghettoes... in jails... in 4lllf 'soup kitchens... in parishes ... in halfway houses... on radio and TV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans and people of the Third 
Worid in Central America. 
Check out whether being a Capuchin . committed to living for God and his people, m the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more information . 
_ Clip and Mail Today! Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue, Detroit, Ml 48207 Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. 
Name Age ____ 
College ________ Address 
City ------State ______ Zip ____ 
The lawyer for Vigliotto. S.), has told the court that the defendant married more than I 00 women in 1 H states and nine !{>reign countries. 
He is on trial in .\laricopa Count\· Superior Court for his :'llov. 16. I 9H I. marriage to Patricia Ann Gar­diner. -12. who has testitied he vanished two weeks after their mar­riage with nearlv S-!9,000 in cash and propertv belonging to her. 
:\lrs. Bacarella. who has three children. said that in Feb. 19HO when ~he agreed to marry \'ilgiotto she had heen separated from her hus­band t{>r the years. She said. however, that there still has heen no divorce. 
:\Irs. Bacarella said she had gone to Florida t~ dispose ofsurplus stock from her :"'iew Jersey clothing store 
anti  \'igliotto spoke  to  her  as  she  
passed a stall in the tlca mark et.  
That afternoon  he  came  to  her  

stall and later arrived at her hotel room and invited her to dinner. She refused. but they talked and ul­timately went out for Chinese food. she testitied. 
She said Vigliotto told her he had heen married once -some 20 vears earlier-for just one day and h~ had been alone ever since. 
He showed her his ring engraved with Italian words that men "always alon~:." she said. 
He proposed the next da\· anti she accepted a couple ofdays after that, she said. 
:\1 rs. Bacarella said Vigliotto joined her upon her return to :"'iew Jersey and she agreed to close her store and take her famil~ With them to a home he said he owned in Hawaii. 

But she still had S-10.000 of inven­
torv after the closing sale, she said. 
and \'igliotto kept pu~hing, telling 
her "we can't wait" and saying he 
would pay the pending hills. 
"TruM me. honey. You're dealing 
with a man. 1 know what I'm doing: 
let me handle it."' she said he told 
her in proposing they load the stuff 
in a truck and take it to Tampa. Fla.. 
for disposaL 
A truck was rented in her namt·. 
she testitled. and she wound up 
losing the possessions. 
\\'hen thev left :"'iew )er~e\. \ igliotto and. :\Irs. Bacarell;; we;e driving the truck and a friend ot Vigliotto's was in a \·an with her three children. sht· · said. In South Carolina. ~he said. Vigliotto picked up another of Vigliotto's young Florida frit'nd~ am.l he described the pair as his "~piritual adoptive sons... 
She said the n>Ung men took O\Tr 
the truck driving and were to meet 
her and \'igliotto in Sarasota. She 
said he left in the van and never 
came back. leaving her stranded 
with her three children and the 
clothes thcv wore. Authorities 
recovered the van in April. 
Sharon Clark of Rav. \lich., t·nded her tc~timony \\·cdncsday. She sa1d she married Vigliotto on Junt· 15. 19H I. in Jellico. Tenn.. after 4uitting her job as manager of a recreational camp and tlea market in lndian.t 

SKI PRIME TIME 
-UNCROWDED SLOPES -ALL LIFTS OPEN 
-NO LIFT LINES  -GROOMED SLOPES  
-SKIING PRICED RI GHT  
10am-4pm Lift-$6  10am-10pm Llft-$10  
Rental-$8  

MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 10am-4om 
TUESDAY RIDE THE FREE SKI BUS! 
The SWISS VALLEY Bus w1l stop at the NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION every TUESDAY at 9:05am. Bus arnves at Swiss Valley at 10:10am and leaves the ski area at 3om. 
TUESDAY-A GREAT DAY TO SKI! 
,.-6·10PM 6·10PM""'
TWO FOR ONE 
Every FRIDAY and SATURDAY night Two can ski tor the Price of One! 
Friday  Saturday  
2LIFTS  $10  2LIFTS  $11  
2 RENTALS $8  2 RENTALS $9.50  

,. 

SWISS VALLEY SKI AREA JONES, Ml 
just 40 minutes from the NOTRE DAME CAMPUS. Take Route 23 to M-60 East. Follow signs to area. 
GROUP RATES AVAILABLE 
616/244-8016 
~ 
I I. i 
I 
I r 
---~---­
--------~ -­
--~ -·­

The Observer 

--------------------------~ 
Friday, January 21, 1983-page 8 
Israel, Lebanon 
Negotiators report 'good. progress' 
KIRYAT SHMONA, Israel (AP)­Israeli and Lebanese negotiators clashed today over Israel's demand to operate electronic spy stations on Lebanese territory but agreed on four new committees to discuss the 
withdrawal of foreign forces from Lebanon, u,s. and Israeli sources said. 
A joint statement issued after the eighth round oftalks reported "good progress" toward resolving the Lebanon crisis, and said experts would meet next week in small groups. 
Conference sources said Israel ex­panded on its demand to build early warning stations in Lebanon, but the Lebanese negotiators rejected the idea as an infringement on Lebanon's sovereignty. 
Chief U.S. ddegate Morris Draper telephoned presidential envoy Philip C. Habib in Jerusalem to report on the talks, and Habib ar­ranged to meet with Israeli Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir today. 
Habib reportedly offered a com­promise on the early warning sta­tions in prior meetings with the lsra,elis whereby Americans would run the electronic listening posts, but the sources said that com­promise was not proposed in the for­
mal talks, and the U.S. delegation had 
not taken a position. 
Shamir said Wednesday that the stations were vital for deterring a return of hostile Syrian or Pales­tinian forces to Lebanon, which Is­rael invaded in June to smash the Palestine Liberation Organization. Thousands ofguerrillas were forced to evacuate Beirut in August but thousands more remain behind 
Syrian lines in eastern and northern Lehannn 
continuedfrom page 7 
homeless. 

In the Southwest, a foot and a half ofsnow fell in places as a new storm swept out of the Sierra Nevada. 
Record lows for the date were posted in cities such as Elkins, W.Va., Jq below zero; Muskegon, Mich .. 10 below; Syracuse, N.Y., 9 below, Traverse City, Mich., 8 below, and Buffalo, N.Y., 5 below. 
During the cold snap in New York City, officials reported more than 4,600 people had turned out at 11 

We are a leader in fast, exciting fields ... aircraft, missiles, electronics, automation. Electrical engineers play a vital role in our continued growth and industry leadership. Opportunities for future-minded Electrical Engineers are available in these challenging career fields: 
Guidance and Control Mechanics 
• 
Digital Flight Control Design/Analysis 

• 
Inertial Navigation System Analysis 

• 
Software Design Development and Validation 

• 
Trajectory Analysis 

• 
Redundant Digital Signal Processing 

• 
Filtering and Control Techniques 


Reliability 
• 
Data Analysis 

• 
Circuit Analysis 

• 
Part Stress Analysis 

• 
Failure Mode and Effect Analysis 


Electronics 
• 
Automatic Test Equipment 

• 
Embedded Microprocessor Architecture/Design 

• 
Digital, Analog and RF Equipment/Circuit Design 

• 
Hardware and Software 



Fire Control Systems 
• 
Radar 

• 
Forward Looking Infrared, Television, or Laser Technology 


Avionics Test Requirements Analysis 
• 
Radar 

• 
Displays 

• 
Inertial Systems 

• 
Flight Computers 

• 
Communication 


If you're ready to get your career off the ground, McDonnell Douglas would like to talk with you. Sign up at your placement office for a personal interview. Here is the date 
we'll be on campus: 
Monday, 
Februa~1~1983 / 
MCDONNELL 
DOUGL~ 

An equal opportunity employer ~ US C1t1zensh1p requ1red '-~ 
The negotiators created new committees to discuss the withdrawal, the future relations be­tween Israel and Lebanon, security arrangements in south Lebanon and possible guarantees of the t1nal agreement, the joint communique said. 
Aseparate committee was formed on Monday to formulate a declara­tion ending the 34-year state of war between Israel and Lebanon. 
. .. Snow 
shelters for the homeless, more than 
at any time since the Great Depres­
sion. A gymnasium was opened at 
Boston City Hospital to shelter the 
homeless there. 

Coast Guard Petty Officer Doug Bamlos in New Orleans said some vessels were in trouble in the Gulfof Mexico from Texas to Florida with winds of 80 mph producing 25 foot 
waves. 
"We have lots of things going on," 
he said. "Barges hither and thither, 
lots of boats ashore. lots aground, 
high water, rigs taking on water. You 
name it, we got it. Except for 
casualtie~. No casualties." 

An offshore oil rig with 51 people on board tore loose from its anchors and went adrift 50 miles off Louisiana. Most of the crewmen were evacuated but a standby crew of I 0 was left on board. 
In Alabama on Thursday, more than 82,000 homes and business lost power as a thick coating of ice snapped power lines. 
Police in Birmingham, Ala.. said wrecks were so numerous they were only responding to accidents with injuries. They told motori~ts in­volved in "fender benders" to ex­change identitkation and report the accidents later. 
================== 
Officials seek suspect seen at funeral 
DETROIT (AP) -The FBI said yesterday it was seeking for questioning a New York man who al­legedly was photographed outside a church at the funeral of one of the Chicago-area Tylenol poisoning vic­tims. 
"We do not want to leave any stones unturned," FBI special agent john Anthony said. "We only want to interview him to determine why he was there." 
Anthony said a woman who lives in the Detroit area contacted offi­cials late last week after watching a Jan. 7 ABC News report on the un­~.olved killings in Chicago that were caused by cyanide-laced Extra­
Anthony said, adding that he did not know if the address was for 1\cw York City or elsewhere in the stat<:. 
Anthony said officials would nor release the names of the wo•n.ln ,r man. 
He added he did not know how 
the woman knew the man, who was 
pictured in the ABC report as a 
white male, with black hair and 
wearing mirrored sunglasses. 

Anthony said he did not know 
which victim's funeral the man at· 
tended. 

Seven Chicago-area people died last September after taking the tainted capsules. Authorities said the capsules were poisoned after being placed on store shelves. No on~: has been charged with the murders. 
r 
Editorials 
Friday, january 21, 1983-page 9 
The changing role of women in the world 
Author's Note: In the following editorial/ will use general trends to paint a picture of the changes in society's structure as it per­tains to the increasing presence ofwomen in the workplace. In using generalizations, I leave myselfopen for the exceptions to what I am stating. I acknowledge these exceptions, butI want to examine thegeneral trends, not specific cases. 
RandyFahs 
Friday Analysis 

With a few notable exceptions, men have been the dominant forces in our world's societies for the seventy thousand years of human existence, an anthropological es­timate. Due to changes in society over the last seventy years, women have been making great strides in cracking the male-dominated world. In this rather short span of time, they have made tremendous progress, but they still have quite a distance to travel on a road which tends to be filled with potholes. 
On the way to more equal footing with men in the world, women are being pulled in many different directions. For the most part, the women who are presently entering the workplace were raised in a household where the father was the breadwinner. It is more likely that their mothers worked than their grandmothers, but the income which was brought home by these working women was usually a supplement to the family's income and much less than that of the father. Even if the mother worked, she was still largely responsible for the raising of the children and the maintenance of the household. 
The workplace of today's woman is much different from the one her parents entered. The weakening of the traditional family structure, the rising number of women who are heads of households, and the increasing ability of women to break into the workforce has radically changed the male-female relationship. Women have been moving more and more into more skilled and higher paying jobs. Where they were once relegated to the more mundane and domestic tasks in the workplace, they are now in direct competi­tion for jobs which were once held by men only. The old ways haven't been replaced to­tally, though; the upper echelon management positions are still held almost exclusively by men. 
What this whole scenario add~ up to is a high level of tension for the career-oriented woman. On one side she is pulled by time endured traditions of her role as a wife, mot­her, and homemaker. But, her ambitions and goals as a person are drawing her into a world with greater career opportunities than ever before. Even though the workplace is opening up, she still has to deal. with the fact that it is not willing to except her as a top level ex­ecutive. One need only bring up the case of Mary Cunningham, who rose to the job ofcor­porate vice president at B<;ndix so rapidly that other high level male executives became nervous enough that they forced her to resign on unsubstantiated charges ofimpropriety. 
Women aren't the only ones who have to deal with this changing world. Men find them­
selves in a struggle with these ambitious women for an ever-shrinking piece of the pie. It is a terrible blow to the egos of most men who enjoyed their dominant roles as bread­winners. An economic boorP would lessen the tensions between men a•.-/WOmen in the workplace because there would be more for everyone to share. Unfortunately, times are very bad and women are battling men for the same jobs. Each has just as much right as the other because they both are concerned with supporting themselves and their dependents. 
Adding to the already bruised male ego is the fact that in some jobs women are more likely to be hired than men. This is due to the fact that many companies are trying increas­ingly to add women to their group ofworkers to avoid negative public opinion and charges ofsexual discrimination. This whole situation leads to an extremely cutthroat workplace. Clearly, the roles of men and women are undergoing changes; neither one wants to be left behind the other. This idea is a good one because neither one belongs behind the other. 
60 Minutes: 'creating' news 
It was 1958, and CBS was, as it remains today, the most respected name in broadcast news. And ifCBS was king, Edward R. Murrow was its crown prince. 
Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 

In October of that year, Murrow stood before the Radio and Television News Direc­tors Convention in Chicago, and spoke ofthat which he believed. 
"I am entirely persuaded," he said, "that the American public is more reasonable, restrained, and mature than most ofthe broad­cast industry's planners believe." 
It's too bad the people at CBS didn't hang that quote on Mike Wallace's wall. On Sunday night's edition of60 Minutes ­
the ftrst prime-time news series to succeed in 
the ratings since Murrow's own -Wallace 
made a farce ofjournalism and civil rights. 
I will be the ftrst to defend CBS's right to air the 60 Minutes segment on the killing of a New Orleans policeman. I could not imagine the remotest possibility of the two Supreme Court justices deciding any differently last Sunday afternoon. 
Winston Churchill once remarked that Great Britain cultivated freedom of speech "even in its most repulsive form." Last Sunday night, Wallace was nothing ifnot repulsive. 
He asked a New Orleans police officer ­the first on the scene of the shooting of a potential witness in the cop-killing case -to describe what he saw when he entered an apartment. The officer did so, saying that he saw another policeman standing over the body ofa man who had a gun in his hand. 
"Isn't it conceivable," Wallace asked, 
"under any circumstances, that the cop planted that gun on the body?" The officer, obviously uncomfortable, started to disagree. "Isn't it remotely possible?" Wallace asked again. 
The officer did not answer. 
So Wallace painted an ugly picture by the flimsiest means. Guilt by association. Cir­cumstantial evidence. Conviction by con­jecture. 
Wallace might just as easily have asked: "bn't it conceivable that Ronald Reagan shot that man?" While it might be no more likely, it is certainly conceivable that under some bizarre circumstances, that might be the case. 
"For a moment," Dostoevski wrote, "the lie 
becomes truth." 
Wallace may feel some smug satisfaction at "getting the story." But he did so under the most unprofessional and amateurish means. 
News is supposed to be as unbiased as is humanly possible. Journalists are supposed to be as objective as they can be. 
I think, as did Murrow, that the public is smarter than the media imagines. And I j;>elieve, foolishly perhaps, that they will recognize the travesty foisted upon them by Wallace and 60 Minutes for what it is -a shameful example of twisting the truth to "make good copy." 
Perhaps the real problem was adressed by Murrow at that same convention. He spoke then ofradio, but it applies as readily to televi­
sion today. 
"In order to progress, radio need only go backward," he said, " to a time when singing commercials were not allowed on news reports, when there was no middle commer­cial on a news report, when radio was rather proud, alert and fast." 
P.O. Box Q 
18 Observer is flawed by illogic. 4. To correlate the incidence of battered presence among us of a Catholic minority children in Los Angeles to the use of the pill intent on making Notre Dame more Catholic 
1. To claim that abortion makes "the way is to correlate apples and oranges. He may as than Catholic, but we deserve moral explica­
clear for euthanasia for the aged and the well correlate the number of battered tions from them phrased in line with rules of 'useless"' is a non sequitur. One can argue children with the incidence ofdrunk drivers logic as old as ancient Greece. 
!ViseiinterntJnent 
DearEditor: that facile access to abortion may pave the on the LA freeways. Brother George Klawitter, CSC 
In case it has not been brought to your 
way to more abortions, but not that the We can appreciate (and value) the Asst. Rector, Grace Hall 
attention already, the word "Jap" is 
access leads to mercy killing. The two derogatory. Using it in a headlil}e as you did 
problems are distinct. 

on Wednesday, Jan. 19, "Jap internment based on lies, report says," seems to be inex­
2. To muddy the waters by dragging in the cusable, shoddy journalism to me. 
question of homosexual marriage does no If you were looking to use a short word, 
service to either it or contraception. To because of limited column space, to 
assert that homosexual marriages would describe "internment," you might have used 
lead society "on the road to extinction" "Nisei," the correct term for someone born 
ignores the fact that the majority of human in America ofimmigrantJapanese parents. 
beings prefer heterosexual coupling. To fur­
james A. Zarzana 

ther claim that a society which condones homosexual marriage is "clinically insane" (an argumentum ad hominem) ignores the 1974 resolution ofthe American Psychiatric Association.
Rice illogical 
3. To define in vitro fertilizaton as a per­Dear Editor: version on the basis of "the teaching 
With his usual flare for overkill, Professor Church" is to assume that all readers under­Rice is again pounding us with his moral stand Professor Rice's narrow view of the reflections on the horrors ofcontraception. "teaching Church" (see his article, Decem­Unfortunately, his argumentation in the Jan. ber 1982, Scholastic magazine). 


IheJJb~~~~~~~er============  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic SMC Executil'e Editor............Margaret fosmoe Sports Editor ................................... Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn •7e,<tures Editor .............. ..... joseph Musumeci Pboto Editor .................... .............Rachel Blount  Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager............. , ........ Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley Founded November 3, 1966  

..................................................................,...............• 

~------------------------------------­
0 
ne tends to have all kinds oi preconceived notions about what famous avant-garde artists are like. But the measure ofa man, even ofan artist, is often found in his as­sociations, so I was pleased to be able to speak to the artist Christo's two preparators who are hanging the upcoming show at the Snite. Though the Snite, like most museums, has a very able staffoi its own, Christo prefers to send and pay for his own people. 
Christo, thus far, was not comingAngela Adamson across as the egotistical fanatic that I tended to envision. The first question one asks ofa interview man who learned art at an eastern European Fine Arts Academy 
Harrison Rivera-Terreau, a native (where one assumes conservative New Yorker, has known Christo and traditional disciplines are since 1964. Rivera-Terreau was 16 taught) iswhen he first conceived of at the time and had purchased a doing projects which required a Christo drawing for $1 SO. He has great deafofinputlfrom other since hung about 300 Christo people, ini the forrri' pfconstruction shows. Working for Christo, he says, assistance; permits dnd permission. does not pay the rent; he is a com-The process Chrbto must go mercia! designer and :;pace planner through in order'to realize his art is by trade. He is devoted to the artist foreign to the traditional artist who :>.nd his business manager-wife, Jean-works alone and unhara.~sed in his Claude. Rivera'Terreaa enjoys in-srudio. In his accen~ed english, stalling the Christo exbibit. "It's Christo informed me, "1961 was the hung like a Mondriao·(painting), on first. "Docksid~;: Pack~in the har­a grid," he says. He admits, however, bor at Cologni: on the' Rhine River. I; materials must be fragile. The project must be "urgent ...vanishing ... not in­timidating ..inviting." Christo, then is not a builder of monuments. 

How does Christo come up with the ideas for his projects? "I have a sensitivity to space. I must have an affection for the site." For instance. Christo visited .'VIiami in 1970. He enjoyed the flatness of the land, relationship ofthe sky and sea, the tropic atmosphere. He conceived the "Surrounded Island" project now in progress. He says, "There 1 wanted to do something horizontal. Until$_:;, I do vertical things." Christo docs not de.cide what to build or v. rap. Rather, he feels, the site dictate!> the project. For this reason, he does not afCept commis­
that "each museum prc$ents dif needed many permissions from th~·· ons, for to do so wQuld be to ham­
ferent problems. Forenstance at the Port Authclrity and so on. The Snite, we had to hang~~HI Project w4-about 18 feet higb.an
'ooo ~quare feet ofart in S,OOO sq _ feet of 100 f~et longand was thei-t I~~ space. We fit it all in, t ." days. The next proJeCt ca~. 
Tom Golden, the oth alfof the 1962 whe~ Christo blocked-off the team, looks more like a coU&ltry rue Viscomi ~ith oil drums: "Jron gentleman than a man vitaiJicon-Curtain." cemedd with modern art~Bu'l con-Christo~begun to fimnulak cer~ed he is. He.met Christ"~tiri·J. 974 h~s ~rima .isti~ co~cerns: II~ on­
dunng the hearmgs surroundiok the I} \\ orks t ces.already shaptd by erection oft_he "Running Fen~e."'·-<'-people. H ut,_s ctty stre~ts, butld­restdent of Freestone, a small towa mgs, and I d · already "-tth in Sonoma County, California Wlier~ property lin~... He will not use "no the "Running Fence" was built, h't \. man's lanf' or untouched nature holds such diverse positions as nui'· 1l(ld there-fort cannot be considered seryman, real estate broker and an··eav.itond'lental artist. "The space "Running Fence" builder. Yes, he ''IQ~St ~e where the people have was so captivated by Christo that he already interacted. They must have a participated in the construction of preconditioned feeling about the the project. place. Then the project tries to 
change their minds. The project creates an energy with the people." The project cannot be a permanent structure. (Although, one of his recent projects, the "Mastaba at Abu Dhabi" will be a permanent installa­tion.) The project must be a "fast appearing intervention." The er the natur~l ~reative process. The project has·aiite ofits own." 

. Christo has no particular goals as an artist-only to have each project 
realized. "It is like an expedition that 
imy wife and I go on. Each project reveals itself to us .. .it is like a uni­versity. Each is a new study, a new study process. Each project is a part 
ofour lives." Now with five projects in progress, Christo finds life very full. He feels his life to be one not of making art, but ofdiscovering it. 
1 

C
hristo is berl'! drawing~ and collage~) and gin:~ to Sunday at one o'clock, The the poor (anyhody who happened Snite ,\luseum of Art proudly opens on the scent: of hi~ curtain wrap on its doors t(Jr the Christo exhibition. harrkr~ ). Christo manages to blend Christo Javacheff is internationally the ideology of the West and East known t()f his dramatic wrappings of through his capitalistic business and objects, coastal cliffs, buildings and socialistic production ofart. other structures, and even fiJr The appreciation ofChristo'~ enclosing huge volumes of air. !-lis transtiJrmations ofthe contrived and work relates to many antecedents, as natural envirimments is as social as distant in time as ancient Egypt and their production. Their location and yet as currem as contemporary scale exclude them from intimate packaging. This exhibition, or­contemplation and silent reverence. ganized by the La jolla :\luseum of They are public events; celebrations Contemporary Art, is on permanent of the romantic sublime. Christo 
creattes visual experiences that
Tim Boyle altter our perceptions of the world. These insights may remain am­biguous as we are not able to fully conceptualize and convey their
fine cuts 

meaning yet we know that we have experienced something special.
loan to that museum from thei"'­Christo's projects do not over­Rothschild Bank in Zurich. It i~the whemlm the landscape but rather 

first comprehensive survey of 1 

work with it .and 1nhance the 
Christo's work ever assembled. 

viewers' a~arenrss its characteris­
Beauty to Christo is not some· lics. His)976,Project, "Running thing he sets out to create, but Fenq:/' is afiood example of this. rather, the fortuitous accompani'! Tiu: fence, made of white fahric ment ofa project carried to comple­which whips like the sails ofboatts tion. His art focuses on the proceS~>cs on San Francisco Bay, ran through ofwork and communication rather mile1> ofCalifi>rnia fields until it than on concerns ofquality and '. vanished into the Pacific. Tqe form. surprbe of the fenc_s:'s disap-­
pear-.mce behind the hihs and ofitsChristo socializes the production reappearance infrontand the spatialofart. He requires the collaboration disorientation when i~ appeared on
ofothers in the production ofhis en­as many as three different planes ac­vironmental work, relying most of centu:ue the character of the en­

all on his wife and business manage'"~ vironment. It was more than a vi~ual
Jeanne-Claude. Christo's immediate experience -the "Runnfng Fence"
crew ofabout one half dozen in-, involved ail ofthe' senses. 

eludes a crew of photographers; (Or We, at The Snite Museum of Art,Chriso, their recorded images arc~ share the opinion that a visit to thenot only documenJ_ation, but also Christo exhibition would be aparts of the totaJWork ofart itselt: 

worthwhilt: and fun experience. -The artist prtdcs him:;elfon 
Thus we cordially invite everyone to 
having never solicited gov;·;nment a public opening and reception for funds, although he comes from a the Christo exhibition on Sunday, society where the state supports ar­january 23rd, from 1-4 p.m. The col­
tists and the ans {Bulg~ria). Each lection ofChristo's works consists of projc~t generates its resources seventy-five objects, drawings, and through the sale ofdrawings, models models, spanning the period of 
an!f collages to dealers, £olleqors 1961 ·1981. There will also be films and museums. The money earned is on two ofChristo's completed spent on location and benefits the works, "Valley Curtain" ( 1: IS p.m.) economy ofthe area where a project and "Running Fence" ( 1:45 p.m.)on is staged. Christo projects the image Sunday. As a finale, at 3 p.m., Christo ofa latter-day Robin Hood as he himself will present a lecture on 
rakes from the rich (collectorsofhis "Five Works in Progress." 
Tim Boyle is a fifth-year architecture student working as an assis­tant at the Snite Museum. 
Thv Obsvrvvr Features Section 

Almost petsunded 

"weneed two million dollars for the current ex­
penses ofour media ministry," said the televi­
sion preacher from his pulpit. For the past tlve weeks, 
the preacher explained. he had been asking for offerings 
to begin schools in Haiti. A SI S,OOO gift would begin a 
school where children would be fed, clothed, and 
taught the Gospel for a year. Wouldn't some watching Christion like to mail a S1S,OOO check to Rev. Jimmitt Swaggart, Baton Rouge, Louisiana' If not SI 5,000, then S10,000 or SS,OOO would help. Send what you can af 
ford to he a faith partner with Jimmy in helping the children. In collecting for the new schools in Haiti ­Jimmy had not gotten enough, not nearly enough ofthe 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
letters to a lonely god 

large olterings, but Jimmy was still hoping-the Swag­gart ministry had gotten low on current operating funds. Please send 52,000,000 to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and to Jesus Christ be the honor and glory. 
"Why not sendJimmy money for his world-wide min­istry?"! asked myself from the depth of the lazy boy in front ofthe Sony. "Why not shake dollars loose from the nest egg, or take out a mortgage on the old homestead? 'Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus, and you can't take it with you 
In the words of the vererable hymn, I am: "Almost persuaded" now to believe; "Almost persuaded" Christ to receive; Seems now some soul to say, "Go spirit, go Thy way, Some more convenient day, On thee I'll call." 
It's bad manners and religion for a priest to knock a 
preacher. Jimmy Swaggart almost persuades me to 
believe as he believes when I hear him. Sometimes he 
weeps as he preaches, and his congregation weeps 
along with him. 
"He was the smartest business man I ever met," says Jimmy, the tears rolling down his cheeks. "I asked him again and again: 'Won't you accept Jesus'' and he answered: 'Jimmy, I can't. Maybe someday, but now now."' 
"One day, time ran out on this man that the world called successful. There was this terrible accident, and my boyhood friend was killed instantly. Because he waited too long, he died outside the saving love of Jesus." 
"Two months later. I met my friend's mother at a service in :\1emphis, but she had grown old physically. 'Jimmy,' she said, 'You scarcely recognize me, because griefhas turned my hair from black to white. They think I'm crazy because of the death of my son, but I'm not crazy. Three times I have seen the face ofmy son. I can't tell you how twisted that face was with suffering and pain. Each time he warned me: mother, don't come to the place where I am."' 
"I knew she wasn't crazy," concludesJimmy, "but her 
heart was the broken heart ofa mother." 
Jimmy's voice often breaks as he speaks ofsinners 
showing contempt for the saving blood ofJesus. "They 
tread on that dear, sacred Blood. They trudge it under­
foot as though it counted for nothing. Yet Jesus could 
not save a single sinner by the greatest miracle, ifit were 
not for the sheddingofthe Blood. Adebt had to be paid, 
and the price was the Blood of]esus. We stood im­
poverished by our sins in the sight ofthe Father, unable to help ourselves, until Jesus said: 'I will pay their bill .with my death on the Cross.' For those who believe and 
accept the Lord's death, the bill isstamped paid, and our 
ticket to glory is His free gift." 
"Aw,Jimmy," I want to argue. "metaphors make dan­
gerous theology if you push them too tar. Over forty 
years ago, in the Baptist church. I accepted jesus as my 
Saviour; even then, the preacher warned me not to be 
too literal about being washed in the Blood ofthe Lamb, 
as though the Father needed his Son's death as a human 
sacrifice. St. Paul uses images from ancient liturgies of 
sacritice, but Jesus being faithful to the end, accepting 
His death on the Cross, doesn't mean that He was the 
victim ofsome blood urge on the part ofheaven." You 
can't argue theories ofatonement with a television 
preacher. 

I nope it's not knocking a preacher to say Idon't care for his Born Again Singers. They're too good looking, too Lawrence Welk, to be convincing witnesses ofCal­vary. There is nothing suggestive of the Cross in their immaculate, well-groomed appearance, as though they lived in a different world from the sweat and dust ofthe Passion. They're so perfectly happy in their songs, be­cause the will ofGod is their rainbow, and they're living under it, no longer dreaming ofbluebirds over the rain­bow, like you and me and judy Garland. How can they be as happy as they claim they are when three quarters ofthe world's people are dying, (Swaggart says) with­out the sweet arms ofJesus enfolding them? 
After his message, Jimmy gives those sinner~ their 
chance: "He who confesses me before men, him will I 
confess before my f< •her in heaven." 
"Come forward dltd confessJesus," Jimmy invites. 
"Confess the Lord Jesus as your personal Saviour." 
People ofall ages and shapes detach their faces from the 
multitude offaces, swarming down the aisles toward 
Jimmy, smiling or weeping as sinners come home. In 
that vast auditorium, believers sing prayerfully: "Just as 
Iam without one plea/ But that Thy Blood was shed for 
me..." It's the emotionally uplifting climax to which the 
evening has been moving. 

Jimmy prays over the converts with his eyes closed and his features beatific. He assures them that they are safe in the harbor ofgrace, the redeemed !lock, saved forever from the jaws ofSatan. 
Popes would be impeached if they claimed so much 
for their followers. Popes could claim as much, if they 
knew the promises of the Word ofGod, an evangelical 
would say. From those same Scriptures, they would 
know they were pretentious in claiming the powers of 
popes. 

The program ends with the clink of money. "We'll 
mail you a book or a Bible. Send checks, or credit cards 
will do. Jesus will bless you." 

Let him who is without sin cast the tlrst stone. Jimmy 
Swaggart is the best I have seen. Listening to him leaves 
me almost persuaded. As AI Smith said, going through a 
snowstorm to Mass: what if the Protestants are right' 
Catholic priests are not ordained iri a faith that says 
one religion is as good as another. 
,.. ,,.... •

'II t I II , ••• 
..~."!!.!"'!.~.~.~.•• ••.~."""-.-"!!'."!!'.. 
•
•

• w(?(?~t?ll cl ~ • 
• 
•KEENAN REVUE 

Yes, folks, it's that time ofthe year. Get out your warmest outdoor attire and line up early to get your free tickets to the Keenan Re,·ue. Tickets will be given away starting at 4 p.m. at the ticket oftkes at O'Laughlin Auditorium and Washington Hall. The Revue will run for three evenings this year, Thursday through Saturday,Jan. 27-29 at O'Laughlin. Aword of warning: tickets were gone in about I.f minutes last year. 
•ART 

The artistic community at the Notre Dame/Saint :\tary's campuses has blossomed within the last year or so, bringing many quality ex­hibits featuring a wide range of media. This weekend all three of Saint Mary's galleries and the Snite Museum will open new exhibi­tions. At the Hammes Gallery at Saint Mary's, Stephen L Mickey, cur­rent artist-in-residence at Earlham College, will display his recent works in clay. Mickey graduated from Notre Dame in 1982 with a master of tine arts degree. His style ofcomposition has earned him the reputation tor unusual, offbeat ceramics. Across the hall, in the Little Theatre Gallery, Krimmer Brams will display a collection of her paintings. She is a contemporary artist working primarily in printmaking but she has conducted workshops in fabric silkscreen, papermaking, and aluminum lithograhy. Both of these shows will open tonight with a reception in the galleries from ~to 9 p.m. The exhibitions will continue until February 18. Gallery hours are 9:30 
a.m. to noon and I to 3 p.m. :\tonday through Friday. The galleries are closed Saturday, but are operi from 1 to 3 p.m. on Sunday. 
•MOVIES 

Perhaps one ofthe greatest movies ofall time, Gone With the Wind, will be showing in the Engineering Auditorium tonight and tomorrow night at 6 and I0 p.m. David 0. Selznick's epic ofthe Civil War-torn South debuted the talents ofthe little-known Vivien Leigh who won the part as a part ofa nationwide talent search to tlnd a Scarlett 0'Hara. In the memories of most moviegoers, Leigh and O'Hara are synonymous. No actress could have brought such beauty and personality to the role as Leigh did. Ofcourse, Clark Gable's Rhett Butler embodies the romantic vision ofthe southern gentleman. Ifyou can spare a little dream time, take a friend and a lot of kleenex and spend the evening with this classic. 
•CHAUTAUQUA 

Were you one of those that stood in line last weekend, waiting to get into the dance? Well, wait no more. Flanner, Stantord, Holy Cross, Pasquerilla West, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips, and Howard Halls are sponsoring this weekend's "A Chance to Dance" tonight from 9:.''>0 p.m. to I:.30 a.m. LaFortune Ballroom is the place and ad­mission is SI. 
•NAZZ 

What a better way to relax than to get a cup ofcoffee from the Huddle and grab a seat at the Nazz. Tonight is Folk Music Night start­ing at 9 p.m. The show will feature John Kennedy and Irish folk music, tollowed byJohn Sase and American and original folk music. Tomorrow night, open stage starts oft' the show at 9 p.m. John Foryt and Friends will show offtheir talents, on guitar and vocals, featuring a variety ofentertainment combinations. 
TOOTSIE pops to the top 
T
ootsie tells the story of .\Iichael Director Sydney Pollack has Tbey ), hi.s recent work -culminat­Dorsey, an established New York described Tootsie as "the story ofa ing in the dreadful Electric Horse­stage actor whose rabid perfec­guy who puts on a dress and in so man -has smacked of low-brow tionism earns him a reputation for doing becomes a better man." While mediocrity. Tootsie marks Pollack's being diflkult to work with. Dorsey that summation may appear a bit first venture into the comic genre; is determined to raise enough glib, it does capture the spirit of this let's hope he continues in that vein. money to tlnance the production of surprisingly effective comedy. For Considering the box-office response a play ("Return to Love Canal') Tootsie does not play up the to his latest effort, that hope doesn't 
transvestite schtick for cheap seem as farfetched as it once mayPattick mulligan laughs; this film has some im­have been. (Ten-to-one Tootsie II 
aginitive substance beneath its com­appears within the next two 
ic exterior. What makes the movie years ...) 
succeed is the control which Pollack Dustin Hoffman turns in a super­
movie review and his cast exert over the material. lative performance as Mic­
In the hands of less imaginitive in­hael/Dorothy and will undoubtdly which is being penned by his dividuals, Tootsie might have garner an Academy Award roommateJeff(Bill :\lurray ), but be­reverted to farcical slapstick, ignor­nominaton for the r'>le. In a support­cause ofhis manic professionalism ing the more subtle insights gained ing role Jessica Lange, a stunning no director is willing to work with by Dorsey in his hilarious role rever­natural beauty, sensitively portrays him. Desperate for work, Dorsey sal. Fortunately Pollack and com­Julie Nichols, a co-star on the soap tries out for a female role in a pany have opted for the more subtle "Southwest General." And Pollack daytime soap opera, assuming the approach, the result beingone ofthe himselfperforms admirably as Dor­identity of"Dorothy :\1ichaels.' As better tllms of the past year. sey's befuddled agent, George might he expected, however, com­Tootsie represents something ofa Fields. plications arbe when Michael Dor­departure for Pollack, a tavorite son As regards its technical aspects, sey tries to keep the nature of hb ofour beloved South Bend. While he there really isn't much to say about double life hidden from both fans has directed one or two tine films in Tootsie. Aside from a couple ofwell­and friend~. his career(The}'Sboot Horses. Don 'I edited ~equence~ (i.e. when \1ichael 
Dorsey reveals his true identity to strategy, insuring that the tllm's sub­the startled public), the tllm is not ject matter gets the full attention of really concerned with cinematic in­the viewer. novation. Which is tine for this Tootsie is·a tlrst-rate comedy. movie -the screenplay and acting Anyone who has yet to see it is comprise the essential components. advised to rectify the situation im­Accordingly, Pollack's camera mediately -it will be well worth adopts a decidedly understated the effort. 

I 
~ 
i f 
' 
1 
f I 
~ 
j;~orts=l=~=r=t=·e~~~S===========================Fr=id=~=,J=·J~·u;=~=2=1,=19=8=3==r=ag=e=l2
By lbc Ohsen•cr and The Associatcd Prcss 
The NVA office has announced that signups tor men's and women's interhall track will run through Wednesday, Jan. 26. NVA also announced that cross-country ski rentals are available again this year. Call 239-6100 for more details. Finally, aerobic ex­ercises are being held on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4:10 in the ACC. -The Observer 
Aerobic Dancingfor faculty and staffstarts this week. Classes will meet on Mondays and Wednesdays at S: IS p.m. in Gym 2 on the ACC upper concourse. A S12 fee will be charged for the seven week course. -The Observer ­
Notre Da.tne-Ford.ham tickets for the Feb. ro 
game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena arc available at half-price to students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game ofa doubleheaderwith Manhattan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are SS. -The Observer 
The Notre Da.tne Women's Trackand Field 
Club will compete at home tonight. The meet starts at 7 on the in­door track at the North Dome ofthe ACC. -The Observer 

Craig Stadler, already setting a blistering pace in the S37S,OOO Bob Hope Desert Classic, says he'll need more ofthe same to win the tournament. "I've got to keep going. I can't relax. I can't look back to see who's there. I've got to shoot 8-10 under, at the very 
least, the next three days," Stadler said after he'd completed two rounds of this marathon event with a spectacular 129 total, 1S strokes under par. PGA winner Ray Floyd, Bob Murphy and llal Sut­ton are all six shot back, tied at 13S. 
The 1-1 men's swim team will begin its second semester against Bowling Green at the Rockne pool tonight at 7 p.m. Tomorrow, they will travel to Big Rapids, Mich., to swim against Ferris State. -The Observer 
The Irish women swimmers beat Valparaiso, T'-63, Wednesday night at Valpo. Triple. winners were Vennene Cochiolo, Karen Korowicki and Gina Gamboa. Notre Dame raised its record to 3-2 and will compete against Bowling Green this afternoon at 4, at The Rock -The Observer 
BrotherJoseph Bruno's Notre Dame wrestlers, 12-l in dual meets this seson, will compete this weekend at the Siena Heights Invitational in Siena Heights, Mich. -The Observer 
Notre Da.tne's home in4oor track season gets underway this weekend as the Irish host the Hawkeyes of Iowa. T~e Irish will be attempting to avenge a 69-62 loss suffered at Iowa City last season, and to even the all-time series between the schools at two meets apiece. The mile will be the first event run under the ACC's North Dome. Startinggun will go offat 12:30. -The Observer 
"I won, so that's the main thing," John 
McEnroe said after disposing ofjose Luis Clerc ofArgentina 6-3, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the S400,000 Volvo Masters tennis tourna­ment last night at Madison Square Garden. The victory over Clerc sends McEnroe against the other half of the Argentine Davis Cup team, Guillermo Vilas, who stopped Andres Gomez of Ecuador 7-S, 6-4. The two will meet in one of Saturday's semifinals of this elite 12-man field, where the winner of Sunday's final will collect S l 00,000. In Friday's quarterfinals, third-seeded Ivan Lend! of Czechoslovakia will play Yannick Noah of France in the afternoon and top-seededjimmy Connors will meetjohan Krick at night.-AP 
Coach Digger Phelps was featured prominently in last night's broadcast of"CBS Reports: The Basketball Machine." The report, an expose on the sad state of academic and recruiting in­tegrity in major-college basketball, was narrated by CBS News cor­respondant Lem Tucker. Phelps was quoted at the outset and conclusion of the program, restating many of the comments which appeared in Will Hare's stor in yesterday's edition of The Obsen;er. 
"We must redetlne our prioritic: , said Phelps. "Let those schools which choose to remain institutions of higher learning go one way, and let those who don't become a minor league for the pros."-The Observer 
• • • Terps 
continuedfrom page 20 

Maryland last year, Adkins is averag­ing ten points a game this season on 51 percent shooting. 
At the Terps pivot slot is 6-9 junior Ben Coleman. The transfer student from Minnesota is Maryland's leading rebounder, pul­ling down eight a game to go along with his IS points. 
"Coleman has been a force on the boards," says Phelps. "And with Branch at guard, everyone in their lineup is 6-S or bigger." 
Mark Fothergill is the Terrapins starting forward. The 6-9 junior averages eight points and six rebounds a game. A steady player Fothergill has improved greatly in 
each  of his  three  seasons  under  
Driesell.  
Completing  the  from  line  for  

Maryland tomorrow should be 6-6 Herman Veal. A starter in only hau·of the Terps games this season, Veal's scoring average has fallen off slightly after from last year, but he is still averaging a respectable six points and six rebounds a game. 
Quickness is the trait most evi­dent on Maryland's bench this season. 
To beat Maryland the Irish will have w play the same type of agressive game they played against Marquette. 
"We scraped and scrapped and did what we had to do to win, said Phelps. "Everyone made a con­tribuion. It was satisfying, but I hope it was only the beginning. 
To beat Maryland we'll have to do 
rhe same thing we did against Mar­quette -control the tempo and keep from getting into a track race with them. Ifwe keep our poise and work for the good shots we'll be okay." 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. classtfteds to appear tn the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepatd, 
etther 1n person or through the mat I.
Classifieds 
IT'S TIMELOST A set of keys With the number 218 ATTENTION!!! The NOTRE DAME MAR­Shirley Appreciation D'ry

1mpnnted on them. Please call 1858!1 1f To start lh1nk1ng about 83·84 Student TIAL ARTS INSTITUTE has 1ts first found Government pos1110ns at SMC If you are 
NOTICES WANTED I 
workout th1s fnday, january 21, at 9:00 Interested 1n runmng for ANY pos11ion, p.m lnroom219attheRock AnyN.D or rJANCE ·A· THON for MARDI GRAS
Los·;:····;,:·~~;;···~·i··;:;:r;N· ..s;;;i;:H···i~·~·~·,~ you must come to an mformat1on meetmg
O.K NO MORE CUTE STUFF IF YOU S.M C student interested in learntng Tae Saturday. February 5--slgn up NOW 
Need a ride to CHICAGO on Friday. Jan e1ther Jan. 24 at 6:00 or Jan. 25 at 9:00
NEED A HAIRCUT AND DONT WANT shoes 1n eithP.r the Rock or Alumn1 Hall on Kwon Do and J1u J1tsu should come
21. c~r lea•Jc onylime a"er 3:30 pm (or p m Both sess1ons are 1n tile Student Af· 
TO PAY MORE THAN $4(GUYS} OR Thursday, Jan. 13 Please call Steve at prepared to work out Any questions, con­BOP TILL YOU DROPII! MARDI GRAS
perhaps earhef) Jim. x8739 fatrs Conference Room It you nave any
$6(GIRLS} THEN CALL TODAY FOR 1061 for a $5 reward tact Random at 1413 or Gary at 3759 DANCE·A-THON FEBRUARY 5 
questiOns. Call Momca at 5017YOUR VERY OWN APPOINTMENT L1ke to Porty? I need ftve or more party 

MICHOLE 233-8456 FOUND--Patr of men~ gloves 1n a class­SAVE HOCKEY! SAVE HOCKEY! MARDI GRAS DANCE-A-THON SATUR­
photographers to ass1S11n my work at the OPEN HOUSE AT THE CENTER FOR
room on thtrd floor of the Engtneenng SAVE HOCKEY !II DAY. FEBRUARY 5 FEATURING
Pu:;ture Man $4-8 per hour, no ex­SOCIAL CONCERNS TODAY. ALL
Build&ng. They look pretty expens1ve Call CHARIOT
UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR Fnday 
perience necessary·-Will tra&n Call 232-NDU STUDENTS, FACULTY AND ································································ 
Noon Til Monday Noon $29.95 includes 3656 1f they are yours. GREENLAND BITES!!!!!!! ICELAND
1622 STAFF ARE CORDIALLY INVITED.

150 Free Miles Sales Tax and Insurance RULES!!!!!! STAINED GLASS ARTIST ACCEPTING 
3:30-5:30 P.M. 

Extra. Phone Rob for ReservatiOns 259-WORK ORDERS CALL2871631 
ytsfr trade p1ng pong table/eqUip for h1gh8459 JUNlORS!!JUNIORS!IJUNIORS!! Off­
back wooden rocker 233·8546 
BOOKS FOR SALE Econom1cs 11th, evenings!!! 
t:ampus Juntors may ptck up an Activty If you are anyone of 1mportance or goodTaking S1des, The Problems of
FOR RENT

Wargames! Interested in formtng a club? Calendar for the months of Jan. and Feb taste. you·ll UnQOUbtedly wwanl 10 WISh 
Philosophy, A Short Calculus, Statistical

MIKE 1401 1n the Students AciVIIIes Office m BOB GLEASON a happy 22nd b1rthday
Analys1s Marketing, Intra to Personality. 

LaFortune today Were we would hate to be an ac­Accounting and lifesav1ng call M1chole
Sophomore class sk1 tnp -10 spaces 5·bdrm completely furmshed. close to cessory to a murder Have a good one!! 
233-8456

available-call Joe 1mmed. 1487 campus, comfortable house for group ol5 FOR SALE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS -In­-Kat1e, Sue. Ellen. Dee, Ann. Jan. Mary or 6 tor 1983-64 Phone 288·3942 after 6 formation mght. Monday. 7 p.m. '" Library and all of 217 
GIRL SCOUT COOKIE SALE NORTH

Home typ1ng serv1ce 1n Mishawaka Lounge
DINING HALL DINNER JANUARY 24­

please call 259-2334 MALE ROOMMATE WANTED to share 2 Hey. you sexy wenches of Notre Dame
HOUSE BY OWNER Art1ngton Hts. Clay
bedroom apt. 2nd floor of duplex. 2 miles 27 Things you will never hear· Heres a man to really spark your flame
Twp., 2.5 m1les from ND and Un,verslty 
Bus Tnp to the BETTE MIDLER Concert from campus $67.50/month plus utiht1es. I fell 1n love With an ND gtrl ·Marty Go to St Ed s, Room 310 Pucker up and 
Mall 1600 sq. ft, 4 bdrm, 1.5bath, tri-lvel. 
Chariots of Fire

Sunday 27 Feb at Holiday Star Theare Grad preferred. 289-8118 1 didn ·t mtss one class all week -Doug lay one on Brendan' HAPPY 21st
2-car garage, large shaded Jot. many ex­
Friday, Jan 21

Call 291-2923 or 291-5869 I made the VarSity -Pal BIRTHDAY!!!
tras 2 blocks from Darden School. 7:00. 9:00, 11:00
Stude~·! hous1ng -6-bdrm. house, fully 1thmk 1"11 have some more veal parmeg­
$59,500 277-6197 after 6:00pm 
$1 00. SMC, Carroll Hall 

carpeted, 2 baths, 2 kitChens wllo" 232-hlan-Joe Otten· Have you ever massaged 4057 or 272-7767 A Beer? No thanks. rm line · Rob and someone w1th your feet? Buck
1979 Honda Prelude S11ver grey, rac1ng Dunster
stnpes, red cloth 1nt. Atr. automatuc AM­SENOR CLASS HAPPY HOUR this
Make thts your best semester ever!! L1ve Let s hsten to some d1sco-Lloyd and J1m Come one, come all.to Spot's Cabin '"
\ LOST/FOUND \ 
FM stereo/8 track EleCtric-powered sun­Friday at Sweeney's from 4-711
1n Knute Rockne s old house Four I hke Zahm -Mark Michtgan thts weekend for some great
roof 43.600 m1 . exec cond $4975 or Celebrating our last semesterlll
bedrooms, completely furnished for only ··Hey Mickey·? Crank 11 up!-Bnan snowmobtltng and heavy dnnktng Entire
best offer 233-3143, ext 282 after 9:30 
FOUND: Eyeglasses between Flanner 87.50/mo Call Bob. Matt, or M1ke at 289--r·h~..N~;;~·o~;;;~·;;·i:·a·c:···s~~~~;;·c;~~·: 1d1dn t miss one class all day -Demps ND-SMCcommuntty 1nV1Ied to stay lree and PW See NO lost/found dept 3962 of charge! Call1 064 for dela1ls and dtrec­
CASSETTES, CASSETTES TDK SA-90 m1ttee holds 1ts first 1nformat1ona1 and or­
mardi gras ts commg\! mardt gras IS com­tlons!
$2 70 each No l1m1t Call 289-7640 ganizational meetmg on Monday.FOUND--Patr of woman s glasses be­NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT Ing!!
January 24 at 8.00 p m 1n the Hayes­

tween Stephen Chemistry and the F1eld SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND GOOD Lou1svtlle fans! Ann Raque has been 19
Stanley Kaplin MCAT matenals Com­Healy Aud1torum All Interested persons.
House To cla1m call x3454 AREAS 277-3604 Mateo, Wanna join the NMV Club? We for a weeki Even though not many
plete set $1 00 00 Call Debb1e after 1nclud1ng newcomers, are enthUSiaStical­
can help! K and K people get a pieCe of the raque, call her
10:00 272-9709 ly welcomed Plans lor the upcomtng
LOST: One darl< blue CB 1nsulated Winter Fum 1 bdr&Seml·furn2bdrontheAiver anyway to wish her a happy B-Day.
Campbell s Boycott Reterendum Wlll be

jacket, w1th ltght blue stnpe last seen at Available tmmedtately Clean & Close to Sorry you mtssed us! BUT you can sttll With Love from KS, PZ, CG, KM. 
USED. OUT·OF·PRtNT BOOKS 
discussed

Bndgets Sat mght If you took it by acci­NO 233-7631 or234-8743 order any ongtnal movte poster by phone
BOUGHT, SOLD. SEARCHED 
dent. please return it! Call Matt at 8369 or by ma1l Contact PO·FLAKE PRODUC­Happy B1rthday. PAM ZIMLICH! Hey.
ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE Twenty-one and
Furntshed1 bdrmapt NearN D $185per TIONS, 203 17th Avenue. Ottawa. IllinOis. Pam1e Baby, ··Get out and break loose
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY· Never Been _;
FOUND. A thm gold ring. no ldentifica­month plus own electnc Phone 272-7767 61350. or phone (309} 454-2571 tonight! W1th Love from your 2nd fam11y.
JEFFERSON INTERSECTION Any Takers? tlon,at Keenan party on Saturc!,ay Call or 232-4057 VISA/MC accepted. Be sure to ask about Kathy. Ann, Chnstma, and K C 
Call Dave at6931 

3214 or come to 1 05 Keenan dtscounts on orders of 3 or more. Tl1anksl smgle apt 3 blocks from memonal hasp , MEN, TIRED OF GENERIC DATES? SO 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRISTOPHER 

LOST: Red gloves Without f1ngers Lots of 4 rooms, JUSt remedied. major ut1httes SHIRLEY!II ARE WEI CALL A LADY FROM
PATRICK RYAN! I would put our number 

sentimental value If found please call L1z payed 150 00 288-6721 SHIRLEYIIJ MCCANDLESS 5 NORTH AND ASK
I PERSONALS I 
'" here and urge all the gtrls to g1ve you a 

at 8064 SHIRLEYII\ HER OUT. 
call . but our phone would be swamped.
3 bedroom, 2 stori. newly carpeted. gas 

and 1 know who would be answenng all ot LOST: Gray wool KANGOL cap. Lost 1n Sorry you m1ssed us! BUT you can st1ll MY FRIENDS. 
furnace, garage 260.00 288-6721 

TO LAURA, HOLLY. EILEEN, TISn, the calls! (and you thOught YOUR hie was 
Hayes-Healy Please. my ears are freez­order any ongmal mov1e poster by phone Thank you all tor a wonderful wake BEAU
ROXY ··BIG D , JAYNE, AND MARY a ··grind !) Have a NEAT 19th' -Janet! 
Ing! Call 8077 Openmg 1n Campus V1ew apartment lor or by ma11 Contact PO-FLAKE PRODUC­P S The North T aytor Fam1ly would ve
CLAIRE TO LAURA. HOLLY. EILEEN, Dr Scott! MITCH! Ug! 
male NO student -must be clean, non­wanted 11 that way 
TIONS, 203 i7th Avenue, Ottawa. llhn01s,TISH, ROXY. JAYNE. AND MARYsmoker Rent $130 month. utilities In­
LOST: ROOM AND MAIL KEYS OVER 61350, or phone (309) 454-2571
CLAIRE SATURDAY MORNING WAS SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 
THE WEEKEND. IN A CIRCULAR KEY -cluded. Call Dave 277-0955 a"er 6 pm ATTENTION JUNIORS SIGN UPS for
VISA/MC accepted Be sure to asl< about
GREAT THANKS! IF YOU WOULDN T Information and applications may be 
JUNIOR ROUND

CHAIN WITH THE NUMBER 218 IM­dtscounts on orders of 3 or more Thanks! the CLASS ROBIN

HAVE PLAYED THOSE GAMES WlH obtained by contacting Andrea Shap­
Fatrly open-minded roomate needed BASKET~ BALL TOURNAMENT w1t1 bePRINTED ON THE SIDE OF BOTH 
US, WE WOULD HAVE HAD TO PLAY pell at the Center for Social Concerns,
Third in 3 bdrm apt Castle Pt Apts held today 1n the LaFortune Ballroom
i<EYS. PLEASE CALL 1858 IF FOUND SHIRLEY! II 
WITH OURSELVES! YOU GALS KNOW 23&-5293. Application deadline:
1nfo:277 -2657 lrom 4:00 to 5:00PM Men and Women s
. THANKS SHIRLEY!II
All HE BEST MOVES THE BASSES January 31. SHIRLEY!II 
teams $25 00 FIRST PRIZE II! 

·:~ 
. ....
~ 
--~ -----------------------------------------' 
~--~----­
The Observer Friday, january 21, 1983-page 13 
Belles to host Roundball Classic 
'By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
Playing its fourth game in seven 
days, Saint Mary's basketball team 
will be trying to mend the wounds 
inflicted on it Tuesday night by 
Manchester in time for this 
weekend's four-team Roundball 
Classic. 
The Belles will host Lake Michi­
gan Catholic tonight at 7. Purdue­
Calumet tackles the University of 
Michigan (Dearborn) in the second 
game. The losers meet in the con­
solation game at 1 p.m. followed by 
the championship matchup. 
The Belles were thrashed, 77-47, 
by Manchester. Teresa McGinnis 
was Saint Mary's leading scorer with 
13 points. Elaine Suess, who 
averages 20 points a contest, could 
muster just nine. Chip Ayotte paced 
the rebounders with nine. Betsy 
Ebert added eight. 
Although the Belles· wounds have 
begun to heal from the pounding 
received from Manchester, they may 
reopen as Saint Mary's faces another 
power. 
"They have by far the most 
talented team I've seen at our level," 
says Saint Mary's head coach Mike 
Rouse oftonight's opponent. 
The visitors will take a 10-2 
record into tonight's contest. Lake 
Michigan Catholic recently defeated 
the eighth-ranked junior college 
team in the country. Yet Rouse 
doesn't plan any special tactics. 
"We'll have to play our game," 
says Rouse. "We'll have to stop them 
on offense and we'll try to confuse 
them on defense.·• 
The Belles' healing process will 
receive a dose ofwhat the doctor or­
dered -a healthy line up. Starting center Missy Van Orr, who was the club's top rebounder and No. 2 scorer before sustaining a leg injury, returns after missing the last four games. Trisha Nolan is back in the lineup at forward after sittingoutthe past two contests. 
"We are definitely a better team with Missy and Trish," says Rouse. 
However, Rouse cautions that Van Ort and Nolan may have problems with endurance. Van Ort hasn't played since December 10 and Nolan has played just once since that date. 
With Van Ort and Nolan returning to the starting line up, Ayotte and Ebert return to the bench. Suess, Cindy Short and Mary McQuillan round out the starting lineup. 
Besides Lake Michigan Catholic's 10-2 record, Saint Mary's will take a 5-5 mark into the tourney while Purdue-Calumet is 7-4 and Michigan-Dearborn 7-7 after win­ning its last four games. Saint Mary's lost to Dearborn, 63-61, on Decem­ber 13. 
"The difference is we'll have Mis­sy," says Rouse. "That might make the difference." 
Manchester turned the tables on Saint Mary's, denting the Belles' mini-win streak offour victories out of their last five games. Saint Mary's fell behind 9-0 and never really threatened. 
"They showed us how it is done," says Rouse of Manchester's pressing style, the style he likes the Belles to play. "And our press was inef­fective." 
Besides numerous turnovers, the Belles had fits with Manchester's half-court zone defense and up­tempo play. 


This Brent Chapman (left) shot was turned Notre Dame travels to Big Rapids, Mich., this away by the Miam{ (Ohio) goaltender, but the weekend for a series with the Bulldogs ofFerris Irish wf!re able to score on the following shot. State. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 


YOU'RE WASTING YOUR MONEY 
BUYING ANYWHERE ELSE! 

liiiCS CELUR  750 IlL  
VODKA OR GIN  3.99  
LOID CALVERT  
CANADIAN  1.75 LITER  
1.75 LITER  

750 ML 
1.75 LITER 

JIM BUM 
BOURBON 1.75 LITER 
BEEFEATER 
GIN 750 ML 
CANA.DIAN CLUB 750 Ml 
IIIACliiiTOSH 
SCOTCH 
OLD MILWAUKEE 
REGULAR OR LIGHT 
59 

CASE OF 24 CANS 
KEGS Old Milwaukee Miller Miller Lite Generic 
QUARTS Old Milwaukee lVI iller Lite Pabst 
27.99 31.99 31.99 23.99 
7.99 8.99 8.99 8.49 

Prices Good Thru 1/22 South Bend Ave Store only 
FOR ONLY 
599 
299
6 PACK CANS
eoou. 

ILJI(8}IHTir 6 PACK 299
ecou. 

CANS 
1099 

BRANDY 750 ML 4'' McGUIRES IRISH CREAM 750 ML 799 
SABRA 750 ML 999 
DUCONTE 1.0 LITER 499 
(12 FLAVORS) 

FRANGELICO 500 ML 999 
DON'T FORGET THE KIDS! 
DELICIOUS 
SUNGLO 

POP 4~~SE
ONLY 
8FLAVORS TO MIX AND MATCH 

l'he Observer Friday,Januar~ 21, 198:)-page t.-J 
No.1 UCL~A beats Cal.; tops J~ac Ten 

Berkeley. 
Big Ten: 

~ Cllr~EIHAI * 
Iowa 68, Minnesota 62 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) Iowa's

friday night film series 
(;reg Stokes and Bob Hansen combined for ~6 points to lead the 
A. Ors!lngursneo group of recent lorergn hims all of wtucn shed _lrght on the rela!IOnshrp between aesthetrcs and contemporary culture Held rn conjunctron .vrth GOTH 140 18aS•CS of Film Stuores) and GOTH 314 IHrstory of Frlm1 and sponsored by the Department of·Communrcation and Theatre 
I Oth-ranked llawkeyes to a 68-'>2 
victory over 16th-ranked Minnesota
All shOw.ngs at the Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art, Notre Dame Campus at 7 30 p m 
last night in Big Ten basketball.

rndrvrdual Admrssrons $2 00 Senes Trcket Any 25 frtms from three ser1es $30 00 fJ..ny 15 films irom three serres $22 00 
BERKELEY, Calif (AP) -For­ward Kenny Fields scored 19 points to lead top-ranked l iCLA to a 6H-<15 victory ovn Calit<)fnia in Pacitlc-I 0 basketball last night, extending the Hruins' winning streak to 22 years over the Hears. 
I ·cl.A heat Cal t<>r the -1 ~th straight time and improved its record this season to 12-I.The Bruins lead the conference with a '>­0 record. 
l ICJ.A guard Ralph Jackson scored a career-high I~ points. His previous high was IS, and he matched that in the tirst half w·hen he made seven of eight tidd goal attempts. 
Calit(>rnia, which got a game-high 22 points from center :\lichael Pitts. held a six-point lead three times in the first half but trailed 5H-_>.S at halftime. The Bears stayed close in the second half and twice pulled to within one point. 
With 6:ctS remaining. l ·ciA led "i6-SS. But the Bruins out~cored the Bears I 0-2 over the next four minutes, with .Jackson contributing two assists on lob passes which were slammed through the baskets by teammates. 
The Virginia Tech defense racks up some abuse on Virginia's --4 Ralph Sampson in their in­
_,anuary 2i 
My Dinner with Andre •1981' 
Lours Malle. USA color 110 mn An evenrng at a restaurant becomes a vrvtd Iunny movtng accoun1 of an aston;shrng sptnlual JOurney Much of the film s humor and dynamrsm aenves from liS sere'ldrprtous .nterplay betweer, the two centra' charac!ers-!he elegant qwvotrc spellbtnatng vrsronary Andre and tne QutlZICal Jumpy obtuse ratronalist Wally olay:ng a stubbornly orosarc Warson 'J Andre's soanng Holmes 
_,anuary 28 
Kaspar Hauser (Every Man for Himself and God Against All) 19751 
Werner Herzog. Germany color 110 mm German wtlh Englrsh sub­
! ues Bruno S who has appeared rn manv of Herzog s films. portrays Kaspar Hauser the young man wllo mystenously appe-ars one day •n a sma11 German town. tn magiCally compellrng terms Based on a .l"'llstoncal 
event the him traces thrs aduJt wild Chtld's" acqutStllon Of cullure and language and the threat hrs na.vete poses !or established socrety 
::ebruary 4 
Autumn Sonata ·'9781 lngrnar Bergman. Sweden. color 92 m1n Swed•sh wrth English sub­J,!Ies Thrs exploratron of longrng and gutlt rllum1nates ihe Irati yet Indestructi­ble bono5 that ex•s! between mother and rJaugf"lter Jngr>d Bergman and Ltv Ultmann g1ve electr•c performances 
February 1 ' 
The Last Wave ,19781 
Pt"ter We1r Australia color. 106 mrn A spellbtndrng thnller about the supernatural 1n wh1ch an Australian lawyer detendrn_g f1ve abor1grnes agarnst a muroer charge becomes rn­IIOived 111 a sertes of 1ncreas1ngly tnexplrcable expeflences wh1Ch seem to come. not from modern man's 11near ltme but from the aoorrgrne·s prrmeval dream t1me 
FebnJa, y 18 
Chan Is Missing •'982) v'Vayne Wong. USA COlor. 89 mtn The t1rst Ch1nese-Amer1can frtm th1s rndeoendentlv produced film has a1ready achreved renown for •Is senstiPI€ ponraya; ot a mrileu never oetore seen authenttcally on tne screen Chan ;uggles a su!')pense plot .vtth semrdocumentary tootage tn much the sarne way as Neorea11sm 
~~bruary 25 
Claire's Knee ·197o, Errc Rohmer t=rance coror 105 mt'l French w:tl'l English subt1!1es ";' .H plots 1ntenwrne ·r> thiS ve•y funnv exp1orattor. of modern morauty A novei;St meets a~" G•d tnend bv chaflce on t'!Oitday and decrdes to use 
as matenal tor ner ne~"'· book. t•Jt th;<; "D!Of .:;taHs as the second yd•ns rnomentufl-?ne fr•eno s qrowt."lg ot'sBsS,r,-. w•tr Cia•res knee 

trastate hattie tu·o nights ago in Richmond. UVa. 
Cal dropped to 7-'5 this season and
turned away the Hokies' upset hid 88-78. (AP 
is 2-2 in the Pac-10.
Photo) 

Cal's last· basketball victory over UCLA wa:-, on Feb. 2-t, 1961 by a 66­65 score in a game played at 
I.U. 89, Mich St. 85 

HI.00,\11'-/(ITON, Ind. ~AI') Ted Kitchel scored a season-high :12 poinb and Randy Winman added 22 Ia..,, nigh< a-; second-ranked Indiana, hiu•.n;; .epeatcdly •J·, ::• :\1ichigan Swte':, zone ddcnst •a the first half. buil" a lo-poim lea\.l ;md withstood a second-half rally t<>r an H9-HS B1g Ten Conference basketball victoq 
1-.:itchel and Wiltman each had a pair of three-point Held goals in the tlrst 10 minutes of the game as the Hoosiers took a quick I0-point leu!. The Hoosiers widened it to 16 points before Sam Vincent and Dere!.: J>ern· rallied the ~parram to within tive points early in the tlnal half. 
A basket bv Jim Thomas. two free throws b1· :-;teve Houchie, a short jumper by \X mman. and a pair of free throws by Kitchd arter .\lichi­gan State Coach Jud Heathcote was called t(>r a technical f<.1ul boostt'd Indiana's lead back to 15, and the 
Hoosiers were never  seriouslY  
threatened  until  the  closing  
minutes.  

Thomas added 1 H poims as In­diana raised its confl"rence record to 5-I and its overall mark to 15-1. .\lichigan ~tate. topped b~ \"incent·s 29 pomts -including ll in the final two minutes-fell to 2-5 in the Big Ten and 9-6 t(H all games. 
The Spartan~ never led the Hoosiers, and back-to-hack three­pointers bv Wittman and Kitchd broke an H-8 tit: to put Indiana ahead to stay. \X ittman's ~econd three­point goal gave the Hoosiers a nine­puint lead. ,md Kitchel's second three-pointer started a string of se1·en straight points that put In­
diana ahead 51-1 ~ nine minutes bel{)re intermission. 
vVisconsin 49, N.U. 45 
.\IADISON, Wi~. (AI') -Sopho­
more Brad Selkrs poured in 2-1 
points last night. leading Wisconsin 
to its first Big Ten college basketball 
victory under new coach Steve 
Yoder. -19--t"i over -.;onhwestern. 
Wisconsin. snapping a six-game losing streak, ll"d 19-1H at halftime over the cold-shooting Wildcat~. who made onh· 26-percent of their shots from the tloor in the tirst half and never did get untrac!.:ed against the Badgers. 
:'liorthwestern, off to one of its best starts in years, slipped to a 2-2 conference record and 1 1-5 overall mark. Wisconsin, trving to escape the Big Ten cellar. improved its record to 1--t and 6-H. 
After intermission, "'onhwestern took a 22-l 9 lead on two baskets bv An Aaron. but Scott Roth and the (>­1I Sellers countered with baskets for Wisconsin, and the Badgers held onto the slim lead. 
The Wildcats tied the score at 51­51 with 9:-.J"i to go on a basket by Jim Stack, but freshman <.~regg Steinhaus and Sellers hit two quick baskets to put Wisconsin bac!.: in front. 
After :'liorthwestern pulled to wnthin three poinb at -t8-ct'5 with toLir seconds to go, Cory Blackwell :.;ank one of two free throws to ic-e the game f(>r the Badgers. 
Stack and Michael Jenkins had I I 
points each for the Wildcats. whose 
top scorer, Aaron, had been avera!!,­
ing 21 .! plJints a game but t(>ukd 
out after scoring oniv seven. 
Ohio St. 75, Mich 68 

COLl;,\1BlS, Ohio ( AP) -Ton~ 
Campbell's 25 poinb led Ohio State to a -:''5-68 vicwry over .\lichigan last night in Hig Ten Conference basket­ball. 
The Bucke~e~. liftmg their over:~ll record to I0-1 and their league marl.: W 2-2. su,rec..t five .~traight pomt~ to 
take a 6--ss lead with 2:12 left and kept the \lifoh-:nnes at a ~afe dis tance in t ht: rinal ;11, •ment~. 
Eric Tur•icr s..:o:c,l .W point~ and firn .\kCf•m.ick : t1 .r> lead \li£h­gan. noV~-l ! -, 0\·t:r,,,l .tnd 2-5 in the league. 
\!ichiga" h>l'i-; an H-2 lead in the 
tlr\t three rmnutc~, htJt the fluckev.:s 
rallied H.> rw '\'t on top )8-5_\ "'· 
halftime. 

The Wc:ver,nc -cor.:d the fip.t six points t..:ft:lt' 'd:-·r:d half to take a 39-.~H lead ;,,nd bt.Ji!( that margin to "-16-ct I with '.!.minutes 10 plav. 
Ohio Stare then outscored ,\lie.hi­gan 19-6 _;,, the next ~ix minutes to take a 60-·S 2 lf.'c.•;. 

Iowa boosted its record to 12-2 overall and .~-I in the Big Ten. ,:\lin­nesota fell to 1 1-5 and 5-2. 
The key to the Iowa attack was a pressing, tight zone defense that took away the Gophers'inside game. Without the aid of starting guard Marc Wilson, sidelined with a pulled hamstring, the Gophers could not penetrate the zone or generate any outside shooting. The Hawkeyes held Minnesota's 7-foot-5 center Randy Hreuer to 16 points, mostly due to the zone. 
Iowa took control early in the first 
half. Minnesota scored first but the 
Hawkeyes then ran off 10 un­
answered points. Midway through 
the halt; Iowa had a 19-8 lead. 

The Gophers got two straight 
three-pointers and Breuer got into 
the game, lifting ,\1innesota within 
two, 22-20, with seven minutes left. 
The Gophers" ~6-percent shooting 
in the half came back to haunt them 
again. The Hawkeyes outscored 
Minnesota 1~-2 and built their lead 
to ~S-22 at intermission. 

The second half was an instant 
replay. The Hawkeyes outscored the 
Gophers I0-'1 to start the half and 
take a 19-point lead. From that point 
on, the Hawkeyes were content to 
play even and maintain their lead. 
Minnesota remained unable to break 
through the tight Iowa zone defense. 
March 4 

Circle of Deceit 119821 
Volker Schlondorff. Germany 108 mrn German wtlh Englrsh subtt!les Set rn the rubble of c1v11 war-torn Betru!, Oecerr IS a compelltng and thOughtful vrs1on of the traged1es of war Bruno Ganz plays a JOurnalist whose dazed eyes mrrror the confusron of a war rn whtch everyone rs a VICtim 
Marcn 25 Tragedy of a Ridiculous Man 119811 
Bernardo Bertolucc1. Italy, color. 118 mrn. ltaltan w1th English subtl!les An herr IS captured by a band of terronsts 1n Bertolucc,·s (The Contorm­rst Last Tango m Pans) latest commentary on the traged1es and absur­dities of liv1ng m a late 1echnoiOQical socrety 
Aorr/8 

Confidence <19791 Istvan Szabo Hungary color. 104 m1n Hungaflan wrth Englrsh subtitles Two lugrt1ves grven false 1denttlres as husband and w•fe by the resrstance m order to evade the Naz•s Wrthrn thrs 1cy enwonment ot total paranora. the film rs also rn1ense1y roman!lc as the 1wo fugrt1ves (wllO never 1earn each other's real names1 fall rn love and expenence a total. consummg tncandescent pass10n-romance wrthout rdentrttes. wrthout future. tn wh1ch every encounter could t.Je the last 
Aprtl 15 

Montenegro ''981i Dusan MakaveJev Yugoslavia. color. 97 mrn Absolutely arythrng goes at the Zanzr bar. a gypsy Mngout where bored housew1fe Susan Anspach ftnds a wild new trlestyle A fantasy farce that blends black humor wrth socral comment while !C:Ik.tng a sur· real look at sex. love. and life 
Aorr/22 
Lucia 119721 

Humberto Salas. Cuba. BIW, 160 mm Spanrsh w1th English subtitles A portra!l of a woman rn pre-and postrevolutronary Cuba. Luera barances nrstor1car sweep and pr•va!e drarna •n rts dep1C!10n of SClctal change Moreover. Luera meditates on tt1e relation of socral change to aesthetiC forms. g1v1ng us each of the trim's tnree parts 1n a different film style 
Af)r/129 

Diva 119821 Jean-Jacques Be1n1ex. France color 123 m1n French w1tt'! English sub­lilies A remarkably tresn ancl ongrnal W\Jrk or the forefront ol a 1<1nd ol Frenctr ~ew W<Jve At the hear~ ol thrs romantrc thnller-1980s styt~J-IS an opera-rntoxrcared 18-year-old marl earner who become':i unwrt11nQiy en­tangled rn a web of murder. pass1on and 1nt"gue 



.rhe Observer Friday,January 21, 1983-page 15 
Fencing '83 
Irish sweep eastern elite 
By DAVID A. STA.l'o/G 
.\ports Writer 
"The elite of fencing,·· was how Notre Dame head fencing coach :\like DeCicco described his team's opponents on last week's East Coast swing. Six ofthe seven teams were in the NCAA's Top Ten last year. 
After tlnishing 7-0 against such major competition as Penn. MIT, and Harvard, DeCicco commented, "Now we'll have to be considered to be among the elite fencing schools too." 
The most productive result of Notre Dame's surprising success was the experience gained by the team's many young fencers. DeCic­co was happy with the unexpected successes of his young team. 
"Very honestly, I thought we would lose to Penn and Columbia," the coach explained. DeCicco's starters against Penn included 6 of9 fencers who were freshmen or soph­omores, and he was "pleasantly surprised" with the victory over last year's second-best team in the country. 
The biggest question mark on this 
squad before the season started had 
to have been the incoming fresh­
men. The maturity and competive, ·ness of these youngsters had never been seriously tested. DeCicco ex­plained, "We didn't know what was going to happen to the freshmen, we may have taken some teams by surprise." 
"Now we are a good team, we are 
only one or two men away from 
beng great, but right now, we are 
just a very, very good team," DeCic­
co related. 
As far as improvement is con­
cerned, there is simply no doubt that this team has no where to go except to the top due to the amount of help and advice that is available to all the individual fencers. Compared to other sports, the fencing coaching staff has a unque philosophy. DeCic­co believes that all sports and espe­cially fencing can function adequately without a coach. He says, "coaching is trivial, I tlrmly believe it; coaches are merely excess baggage." 
The fencers on the foil squad are led bv standout senior Marc Dejong, who . provides needed leadership and experience. "Marc is off to a spectacular start," exclaimed his coach. Following Dejong is fresh­man Mike Vander \'elden, who can "fence better than he has. He has the potential to he a great one. because 
he ha~ great leg~ (quickness)," said DeCicco. At the numbt:r three foil ~pot is junior Chris Grady who, "came through against Columbia in the keY hout of the tournament." 
Sophomore· \like Janis has "assumed the leadership" on the sabre squad after being the team :VI\'P last season. ~enior Joel Tietz also ha~ been giving his opponenb all they can handle. 1:-reshman John 
---------~-------,
IBeatthe I 1 wintertime IIblnhs nt 1 
IThe NAZZ I 
I I 
I I
I Friday, Jan 21 -Folk Music Night! I I John Kennedy-Irish Folk Music I I John Sase-American Folk Music! I 
1 9:oopm-? I 
1 Saturday, Jan 22-Open Stage 
I 

1 9-10:30 pm I I John Foryt 10:30 pm-? II (guitar and vocal) I 
Edwards ot ~r. Lout~ comes from a family full of fencing tradition. He is described as "an excellent sabre man," by hb coach. Another pleasant surprise is frehsman Don Johnson who ''is sometimes erratic, 
but is an excellent prospect for this year, and for the next few years." 
Coach DeCicco believes the epee squad iis "all fencing well." He described senior Rich Daly as "good, tough" and said Ola Harstrom "is fencing well." Sophomore Andy Quaroni "has contldence in himsell~ he has a lot ofenergy," and Michael Gastigan who was able to stop at home while on the trip is "fencing exceptionally well." The somewhat surprising new star on the team is freshman Jan Tivenius from Sweden who is the only undefeated fencer in 
the starting lineup with a 16-0 record. With freshmen like Tivenius, this team can only improve. 
The almost unknown Irish women's fencing team has been a!­most as much of a surprise this year as the men. The women's team, in only its twelfth year is "farther along at this stage than the men were," ex­plained Coach DeCicco. This year 

• • • Lynn 
continuedfrom page 20 
"I still think I would've played," she says. "I might have started later than I did. 
"I play for myself because I love the game. My father never forced me and my brothers into playing." 
He must be happy that he was able to help out, though. 
Mr. Ebben's alma mater, Detroit, will be the tlrst of two tuneup op­ponents for the Irish women this weekend before they take off on a grueling West Coast swing. 
The Titans and Irish will tip off at 
7:30 tonight. Rounding out the weekend will he a Sunday matinee with lllinois-Chicago, slated for 2:00. 
The Titans, 4-10 this season and reeling from a coaching change that took the team by surprise last month. Tom :\looney, the interim head coach, is suffering for a lack of depth on his squad. 
"They're a young team just 
looking for a combination." says 
Irish assistant coach Patrick Knapp. 
Detroit's leading scorer is sopho­
more guard Regina Pierce, the only 
returning starter from last year's 20· 
7 Titan edition. Pierce is contribut­
ing 16 points per game, and S-6 
freshman point guard Pat Nealy is 
next with eight. 
Challenging \lary Beth Scheuth, 

the Irish women have surpr~ed many top teams such a~ ~orth Can;Iina, and :\liT. with a close loss to a strong Penn team. Leading the women is last year's honorable men· tion Ali-Ameri~an, senior ~usan Val­diserri. Valdiserri's excellent play. promted her coach to comment, "Susan is fencing better than ever at Notre Dame." However, Valdiserri is feeling the pressure of Charlotte Al­bertson, a freshman from Sweden. This one-two punch in the foil is the "greatest thing a coach can have," according to DeCicco. The similar skill level~ maintained by these two women force them both to exploit 
their fencing ability to the fullest in order to maintain their positions on the team. Behind Valdiserri and AI· benson come the excellent fencers. Mary Schultz, Sharon DiNicola, and Janet Sullivan who "is coming along." 
The next opponent for the Notre Dame fencing teams is the defending national champs from Wayne State. University, who will engage the Irish today at Wayne State. On Saturday the Irish will face Northwestern and Michigan State, also at Wayne State. 
Notre Dame's dominating reboun­center Andrea Wright, who was to der, will be six-toot sophomore cen­be the Flames' key. In the absence of ter Nancy Gumbert, who is pulling Wright, 5-8 freshman guard Phyllis down eight caroms an outing. Curry and 5-I 1 freshman forward 
"They've been a hard-luck team," Tracey Manual have been scoring a warns DiStanislao. "They're volatile, combined total of 25 points a game. because they do possess talent. It's While the Irish women are facing not impossible that they could catch a pair of opponents whose 
us by surprise." combined record is 6-22, the impor­Illinois-Chicago, 2-I 2, has been tance of this weekend is not lost on handicapped by an injury to junior DiStanislao. 
$795 
ONLY PER PERSON 
S495 Children Under 12 

BBQ BEEF RIBS • BBQ CHICKEN 
• BBQ SPARE RIBS 

•
SPICY CHICKEN WINGS 

•BBQ 
STYLE SLICED BEEF;;;;:-­


Baked Potato Bar with Six Toppings• Baked Beans Corn Cobbettes • Homemade Soup • Corn Bread 
Help yourself to as much as you like of these charcoal broiled meats and freshly prepared items. 
Offer valid jan. 17·21 and jan. 24·28 

Offer good on above dates dunng dinner hours only Cannot be used in conJunctton with other offers Tax and tip not included Products must be consumed on premtse 
~, 52885 u. 

--·. 
Ed "Too Tall"}ones (left) and Harvey liJartin (right) ofthe Dal­las Cowboys hope to be standing oz•er Redskin quarterback joe Theismann tomorrow like they are in this picture overLynn Dick­ey ( 12) in last week's playoff (AP Photo) 
"(The freshmen) only have 14 games under their belts," points out DiStanislao. "And sophomores are our veterans. In these games, we worry about us more than the op­ponent. We tlnd out a lot about our­selves (in these games)." "We just have to play sound games to win this weekend. We can't play watch-the­baH-fly-around-the-court games and expect to win." 


1 11e Observer Friday, January 21, 1983-page 16 
Going home 
Sluby grows as pla~ver, person 

By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
It was two years ago this week at College Park, Md., that a young freshman for Notre Dame achieved perhaps the high-water mark of his collegiate basketball career. 
Standing on the same floor ofsuch seasoned superstars as Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge and Tracy Jackson of the Irish, and Buck Williams, Albert King and Ernest Graham of the Terps, the game at its climax rested on the broad ant! powerful shoulders of a freshman native of Maryland who went wayward to Notre Dame. 
With 13 seconds left and a nation­al television audience along with a packed Cole Field House expecting the freshman to succumb to the pressure, he sank the two free throws to ensure Notre Dame's 73­70 victory.· 
He didn't play too much that year because of the presence of the out­standing seniors, but the awesome potential of the 6-4 200-pound specimen whet Irish basketball fans appetite enough to believe that he was to be the next of the All­Americans for Notre Dame from the Washington D.C. assembly line which had already supplied Notre Dame with six of the top 1 1 scorers in its history. Besides the all-time leading scorer in Irish history in Aus­tin Carr, the list includes Bob Whitmore, Don "Duck" Williams, Collis jones and .Jackson. 
And, oh yes, that number two 
scorer  in  Notre  Dame  history,  
Adrian Dantley.  
"Contrary  to  popular  belief,  

Adrian Dantley has not re-enrolled at Notre D;tme," reported The Oh­serz•er about Tom Sluby's excellent early season performances in which everything from his play to his style of walk emulated the NBA's premier small forward. 
The comparison's weren't far­fetched. Besides his magnificent upper-body built!, he was the player of the year in Washington D.C. (one of the Meccas of America for prep­talent). was selected to McDonald's prestigious 2S-man All-America team, possessed a smooth outside touch to complement his inside power game, ant! hat! a leaping ability which enabled him to touch 
the rim of a basket with his elbows. 
((If you give up here (ND), you might give up out there (life)" 
Two years later, however, as Sluby makes his journey hack close to his hometown, he is not as much the major focus on the Irish basketball team as people once thought he would become. 
''I'm doing OK I guess," says Sluby with a sigh that indicates not com­placency, hut relief in the fact that he still has the oppurtunity to con­tribute a lot. 
"I really didn't like being compared to Adrian at all my fresh­man year," recalls the junior. "All I wanted to do was to make my own name, hut it seems that people were always comparing him to me be­cause we·were from the same area. 
If accepting the comparison~ to Dantley were difficult, they were quite miniscule to accepting what happened his sophomore vear. 
The team started off ·2-9 while 
Sluby in his starting role was in the throes of a 40 percent field goal shooting effort. To top it off the for­mer high school Dean's List student 
was placed on academic probation for the second semester. hence. making him ineligiblt: to play for the rest of the year. 
The world of Tom Sluby seemed w be coming apart. and one could expect that the same would happen to the intlivitlual who once dominated in his athletic ant! academic endeavors. 
False rumors of his departure from Notre Dame didn't help his .case. 
"I don't know where the rumors started," says Sluby, "The disap­pointment was there, but if I was going to leave it was because I was unhappy about the school as a whole. The probation alone was no reason to transfer. I couldn't blame that on the school, just myself:" 
The trial has had its blessing. As his assistant-coach and former Notre Dame all-America once stated, "Notre Dame prepares you for life, and that's what scary. If you give up here, you might give up out there (life)." 
"It has helped me make decision~ better and understand things more," admits Sluby. 
Sluby has not quit and the result is a new optimism for him as he goes back to his hometown area again. 
"I'll have a lot of family and close friends at the game, so I'll be playing as hard as ever," says Sluby."We're getting better. We sometimes have a lapse in our communication on the court, but the more we play, the bet­ter we are." 
And all the more reason to ap­preciate il when quitting could have been so easy. 

the snite museum of art O'shaughnessy galleries collection on loan from 
Films: 1=15 «Valley Curtain» 1=45 «Running Fence» lecture: 3:QQ CHRISTO «five Works in Progress» 
The Observer 
... leers 
cmlfinuedfrom page .!0 
Bjork now ha~ I-i goab and I~ as­sisb giving hm1 a team high 5I point!>. 
Yet undeniahly. there is much more involn~d in the weeknd series than the offense and defense of the two team!>. The predicament the "'otn.: Dame hockey team is in will have a large effect on how the team~ play~. 
Ju~t what kind ofeffect is the ques­tion. 
"I was proud of the way the kids reacted last weekend-against .\liami," commented ~mith 'Thev showed a lot of pride and dignit):. Their maturity carried them." 
According to junior Adam Par­son!>, thl· ~ituation might give the Irish ~ome strong motivation. 
"I don't sec how it could be detrimental." Parson!> said. "Everyone i~ going out there to prove: something." 
Defenseman ~lark Benning hope~ Par~ons is right. 
"Evervone is a little down in the dumps right now:· Benning said. "But last ~aturdav we reacted real po~lli\cly. and that's what we have to ket>p doing· 
-..nlltil lu· iriH.'"--...,t'd riH· pi;HTr"'\· .-. 
rc:-,p,Jn . ..,t..· 1:. ,-...;·."-~tt..~..:.'"; ttu!"-\\·l:ch. anU ., 
he 1~ rather pleased by what he sees. 
"I've watched a lot of hard work lately.'' said ~mith. "I hope that the: positive attitude prevail~." 
All eye!> w1ll tocus on the Irish this weekend to sec: in reality if the problems with the hockey program will have an effect in thi~ weekend's series again!>! Ferris State. 
The next chance t(Jr home hms to get a look at the :\otre Dame hocke\· team will b1: on Saturday, Jan. 29 wh~.:n th1: Irish meet the Broncos of West~.:rn Michigan. 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT 
TOUS! Omega Productions, Inc. is now opening their :vlobile Music Division. We can provide any type of musi.: for any type of event. Parties are our specialty. Custom music programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask 
< Susan or Brad for details. 
·--------------·----------.­


NEW HOURS 
WE ARE NOW OPEN FOR LUNCH MON. THRU FRI. 
MON·THURS 11 A.M.·10 P.M. FRI11 A.M.·12 MIDNIGHT SAT 4 P.M.·12 MIDNIGHT CLOSED SUNDAY 

r----------;,
VALU.ULI COUPOII 
'2" Off l.liCE f1UA 'I" OFF SIAU 01 MEDIH PIUA 
OFFE.R NOT YAUU WITH ANY OTHE.R .t.UFitUO S 
SPECIAl DISCOUNT OA COUPON VALID AT S 8 AUREllO'S ONlY 
Coupon expire• Feb. 1,1983. 
YALUAIU COUNII 
DEUYUY Sl't:CIAL 
-FII.E Fm IOliOl 
":=::U 
IL'>OOMINIMUirol 

Of'FERNOT \IAUOWHH ANY OTHER AUR£uO·s 
SPECIAL DtSCOuNT OR COUPON VALID AT S 8 
AUREUO"S ()fljLY 
L.: _________Coupon expires Feb. 1, 1983. .. 
FREE SALAD WITH ANY PIZZA, PASTA OR SANDWICH LUNCHEON ORDER. (Dining room only) 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
."\o\11.\lll

"'"""'OIIDI'EI' 277-4950 "'"""' 
Notre Dame graduatejoe Tbeismmm (right) hopes that Charlie Brown (left) is on the other end ofhispasses tomorrou• aftemoon; that is ... 
... if be can escape trouble as effectit,eiJ' as be did in last u•eek's playoffgame. Tbeismmm's Redskins face the CowboJ'S tomorrou· for a Super Bowl bertb. ( AP Photo) ­

INEERING 
TAKES ON EXCITING 

EWDIMENSI 

IN THE 
AIR FORCE. 
Computer-generated design for investigating structural strengths and weaknesses. 
Developing and managing Air Force engineering projects could be the most important, exciting challenge of your life. The projects extend to virtually every engineering frontier. 
8 CAREER FIELDS FOR ENGINEERS 


Air Force electrical engineer studying aircraft electrical power supply system. 
Engineering opportunities in the Air Force include these eight career areas: aeronautical, aerospace, architectural, 
astronautical, civil, 
electrical, mechanical and 
nuclear. Hundreds of diverse specialties are included in a \vide variety of work settings. For example, an electrical engineer may work in aircraft design, space systems, power production, communications or research. A mechanical engineer might be involved in aircraft structure design, space vehicle launch pad construction, or research. 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITY COMES EARLY IN THE AIR FORCE 

Air Force mechanical engineer inspecting aircraft Jet engine turbine. 
Most Air Force engineers have complete project · responsibility early in their careers. For example, a first lieutenant directed work on a new airborne electronic system to pinpoint radiating targets. Another engineer tested the jet engines for advanced tanker and cargo aircraft. 
OPPORTUNITIES IN THE NEW USAF SPACE COMMAND 

Artist's concept of the DSCS III [Jefense Satellite Communications System satellite. (USAF photo.) 
Recently, the Air Force formed a new Space Command. Its role is to pull together space operations and research and development efforts, focusing on the unique technological needs of space systems. This can be your opportunity to join the team that develops superior space systems as the Air Force moves into the twenty-first century. 
To learn more about how you can be part of the team, see your Air Force recruiter or call our Engineer Hotline toll free 1-800-531-5826 (in Texas call 1-800-292-5366). There's no obligation. 

.. 
' 
<. 
The Observer Friday, January 21, 1983-page 18 
.. 







Tony Hunter 

mass 
~OllOW€bBy 
SUPPER 
€V€RY 
~Rlbay 
at the 

StaRtln(j thiS 
rRtOay 

Ballroom Dancv Classvs Continuv 

The ballroom dance classes at Saint Mary's have been very popular and will continue. 
Wednesday, January 26th, will be the first lesson of a five week ballroom dance class that will be taught by Ray Sexton from Indianapolis, and the total cost is only $25 for five weeks. 
Sign up now in the Saint Mary's Student Activities Office 284-4561 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS 


ONL~Y~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
( 

All-star games 
Seniors see pos_t-season play 
By STEVE LABATE 
!>ports Writer 
Notre Dame's 1982 football season combined a bit of the new­Musco and Pinkett, for example ­with a bit of the old, like an upset over the nation's No. 1 team (Pittsburgh), and a controversial loss to Southern California. 
Among the familiar aspects were some inspired performances by a number of seniors. Altheugh their t1nal game in a Notre Dame uniform was not a bowl game, seven mem­bers of the graduating class received 
partial  compensation  by  being  
invited  to  various  all-star  bowl  
games across the country.  

Appearing in the Hula Bowl in Honolulu wt:re safety Dave Duer­son, tight end Tony Hunter, and guard Tom Thayer. Playing in the East-West Shrine Game at Stanford University in California was AP third team all-America linebacker Mark Zavagnin. 
Halfway around the world, tail· back Phil Carter and defensive end Kevin Griffith will be playing in tomorrow's Japan Bowl. Finally, below the Mason-Dixon Line, in Bir­mingham, Ala., fullback Larry Moriarty will appear in the Senior Bowl. 
All of these bowls are a haven tor professional scouts from the NFL, CFL, and USFL as they shop for talent for their respective leagues. Duer­son, Hunter, and Thayer all felt that they impressed the scouts with ex­cellent practices and games to match. 
Hunter, who may have been th<· best Irish athlete this season, was particularly impressive as he teamed up with Minnesota quarterback Mike Hohensee tor a touchdown in the East's vicwry over the West. 
"We said the night before at the banquet that we would score on the play," commented Hunter. "The two outside receivers did street patterns and I went up the middle. The safety had to take either the outside or myself. He wt·nt after Anthony Car­ter." 
Thayer impressed the scouts with his versatility as he flopped around from center to guard to defensive tackle, and he even saw action on special teams. Thayer remarked, "I think I showed that I can compete with the other fine players in the country." 
On defense. Dave Duer~on had a tine pertimnance at cornerback. The Notre Dame co-captain provided the East team with the big defensive play of the game when from the East two yard line, he drilled the West quarterback on a naked reverse causing him to fuinble. 
Playing on the corner for the first time all season, Duerson believes that where the pro teams will try_ 
him at. "With the pros going more 
towards a passing game, they need 
more good players on the corner. I 
have the speed of a corner, but the 
size ofa safety." 

Meanwhile in the East's 26-25 vic­
tory over the West in the East-West 
Shrine Bowl, Mark Zavagnin picked 
up where he left off at USC. He lead 
the East in tackles while playing an 
inside linebacker spot on a 3-4 
defense. But it was playing against John Elway, Stanford's sensational signal caller, that gave Mark his big­gest thrill. 
"Playing against Elway was one of the highlights of my career," said Zavagnin. "He's the best I've ever seen or played against." 
Zavagnin was not the only one to offer praise for a fellow player. Duer­son was extremely impressed with Penn State's Curt Warner both as a person and as a player. Tom Thayer and Tony Hunter both agreed that Anthony Carter is in a class all by himself and is headed for great career in the NFL. Said Hunter, "There's no question about his talents. He's one ofthe best I've ever seen." 
It will be some time before these four Notre Dame seniors suit up tor another game, but when they do, it probably should be for an NFL team. The Chicago Bears seemed very in­terested in Tom Thayer. San Diego, St. Louis, and Atlanta were just a few of the many teams that talked to Dave Duerson. 
The tough road to the NFL begins 
next month when mini-camps in 
Tampa, Detroit, and Seattle will ac­

Sign up to dance in the 1983 
Mardi Gras Dancczathon 
NOW 
in both dining halls 

,'
( 0 ( Danceathon will be 
t __.~ A,lf.\,. Sat., Feb. 5 1p.m.-1 a.m. / -:-;~:.· .. in South Dining Hall. ~ " 
\ ' ( ' \ i i. \ 1 
' I 
, Prizes include a trip to Mardi' I' jl
\ I 1. 

\ ~Gras in New Orleans!! -~ (;. 
;; \-, 
<\:tt;. 
t:~~· .(/'~~}0, 

quaint the nation's best talent with coaches and scouts from all 28 NFL teams. The players will go through interviews, physicals, strength tests, and will be timed in the 40 yard dash. Ifthe NFL teams like what they sc:e, they'll most likely invite the players individually to their camps and test them some more before the draft. 
At this point the USFL does not seem very probable to any of the four men. With three and a halfyears of school completed, it would take the "right" money to get any of the four to leave before graduation. Al­though Thayer's agent, Robert Ben­nett, is still negotiating with the Chicago Blitz, Zavagnin, Hunter, and Duerson are pretty certain that they will give the NFL a try first. 
No matter what happens in the months ahead, these young men will never forget their bowl experience. "Absolutely first class," remarked Duerson, "The Hawaiian people were beautiful." 
After thinking back on the warm weather and beautiful women of Hawaii's beaches, Tony Hunter of­kred, "If! had been recruited by the University of Hawaii, I would have definitely considered going." 
But linebacker Mark Zavagnin got perhaps the greatest satisfaction of all the seniors by playing in a bowl where the revenues benefit a local children's hospital. "It was really rewarding," reflected Mark. "You really don't know how lucky you are until you sec the children there in tlhe hospital. It gives you a brighter outlook on life." 
:Ex-Dolphin Morris sentenced 

MlA:\11 ( AP) -Mercury !\Iorris, the fleet runner on three \1iami Dol­phins Super Bowl teams, was sen­tenced yesterday to 20 years in prison for cocaine convictions. 
The former National Football League hero, who~e name still dots the Dolphins record book, must serve a minimum of 1 5 years before becoming eligible for parole. 
Dade County Circuit Judge Ellen Morphonios Gable, herself a Dol­phins fan, senrenced the .35-year-old defendant to 20 years for a cocaine trafficking conviction and tlve years for cocaine conspiracy, a t.:rm to run concurrent with the longer penalty. 
The judge agreed to allow Morris a trip to Pittsburgh to \·isit his mot­her, who is ~uffering from cancer. 

Friday, January 21, 1983 -page 19 

Bloom County 
And there[?f, oor COI1C]U­sioo ts that councilman 
Hunzinker is apin-headed
old cletooSogue . 

Simon 
5/tfO~JIIE!fE iS 
ONlY ur-IE WIJY 7D CONT£N.P WITif 
jflTIH-1. 
I 
Fate 
HE'i, MAN, DO YOU. 
1)0 YOU THINI<. lltE'~E's 

n\IN"-ITS TK\Af W\\AT 
R~NO l'Wo • SNOWFLA~ .Awl<£? 

The Daily Crossword 




0 • 
0 


Berke Breathed 

Hunzinker is~ efd BeRl~l.le. 
...wa5 a5narp-witted
eider statesman. 
)eb Cashin 
Photius 


Campus 
Friday,Jan. 21 
• 3: 1 5 p.m. -Workshop, "After Reagonomic,: 
..
The Debate Over Industrial Policy," jeff Faux, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
•3:30-5:30p.m. 
-Open House, Center for So­cial Concerns 

•4 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Women vs. Bowling Green, Rockne Memorial 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Geological Evaluation of Fractured Reservoirs," Dr. Ronald A. Nelson, 101 Earth Science Building 

•5 
p.m. -Weekend Kick-off, Sting, WSND-AM 64 

•5:15 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•6 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Gone With the Wind," Engineering Auditorium, S1 

•7 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Men vs. Bowling Green, Rockne Memorial 

• 
.., . 9 p.m. -Opening Art Exhibitions, lnterna­


. tional Holographers Invitational, at :\1oreau Gallery, Stephan \lickey. Recent Works in Clay, at Hammes Gallery, and Bebe Krimmer Grams, Ret·ent Paintings at Little Theatre Gallery, 
•"':30 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. t:nivcr­sity of Detroit, ACC Arena 

•7.:30 
and 10 p.m.-Film, "Chariots offire.'' Car­roll llall. Sponsored by SAPB 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "\1y Dinner with Andre," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•"':30 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, for stu­dents imerested in working on the .nuclear freeze referendum, Lafortune Social Concerns Room. 

•9 
p.m. -Folk Music Night at the Nazz, Featur­'ingjohn Kennedy and John Sase. 

•9:30 
p.m. -1:30 a.m. -A Chance to Dance, Chautauqua, Lafortune Ballroom S l 


Saturday,Jan. 22 
•H 
a.m. -Educational Testing Service Ex­amination, Engineering Auditorium 

•1 
p.m. -Track, ;\/D ,\1cn vs. Iowa, ACC Fieldhouse 

• 
3 p.m. Christian Concert, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame 6 and 10 p.m. 

•6 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Gone With the Wind," Engineering Auditorium, S1 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ Open Stage, 

•10 
p.m.-NAZZ,John Foryt and Friends, 


Sunday,Jan. 23 
•1 
p.m. -Open Art Exhibition, Christo Collec­tion Loan from the Rothschile Bank Zurich, O'Shaughnessy Galleries 

•2 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. Illinois, ACC 

•3 
p.m.-Art Lecture, "Five Works in Progress," Christo, Annenberg Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Rock in Retrospect, jack Briganti, WSND-AM 64 

•8 
p.m. -Women's Opportunity Week, "One Woman Show," Karma Ibsen Riley, little Theatre 

•Midnite-AllJazz 
Show, WSND-FM 88.9 


Q. =f-low m6nt L-6ftlerd5 doe0 it {31\e_ fp 
'Scfew ifl a l'sht­
~lb? 
A.= Uwolly J<li one. 
~-~smerd 
ACROSS "Of Thee 1-" 
5 Medicinal 
plant 10 Fruit seed 13 Cupid 14 Hymn of 
praise 15 American humorist 16 Take a drink 19 Small territory 20 Grandstand 
section 21 Lanky 22 Billie­
King 24 Spartan slaves 

27 -bee(in· 
dustrious) 30 Indian 31 African 
people 32 Malay isthmus 
34 Campaign· ing, Truman style 
38 Hearing aid 
39 Ancient Aegean region 
40 Curare's 
relative 41 Cuddles 43 Orator 45 Woe is me! 46 Blackbird 47 Pinnacle 49 Sacred 
53 Football officials, often 
56 Fate 57 Moon 
valley 58-the Red 59 Taketo 
court 60 Poplar's cousin 61 Places for bears 
DOWN 1 Adages 2 "-a man 
with seven 
wives" 3-bene 4 Nymphs' 
dwellings 5 Periods of rest 6 Studio 
feature 7 Salamander 8 Slangy 
negative 9 Blackbird 10 Filmon 
bronze 11 Unemployed 12 Look 
narrowly 17 Shipshape 18 Don'tgo 
to bed 22 Ruling group 
Thursday's Solution 

*************************************** 
Saturday 
~lE1111CIDffi ~~F~ill  welcomes the music  
of PAR THREE  ~ior.Bar  
~doors open at9:30  

23 This, in Madrid 24 Julia Ward­25 Allen or Frome 26 Nantes' 
river 27 Foundation 28 Egyptian 
lizard 29 Water buffalo 
31 Former Czech president 
33 Antiquing 
device 35 Book names 36 Falana 
of song 37 Cushioned 42 Medieval 
silk 43 Bank worker 44 A Guthrie 46 "Dere -" 47 Pointed 
tools 48 -En·lai 49 Taken 
prisoner 50 "TheWay We-" 51 Green island 52 Certain 
medals 54 -Ia Ia 55-Abner 


Newly confident Irish to take on Terrapins 
By RICH O'CONNOR But tomorrow's game will not be !!ports Writer tainted by the ACC's "noble experi­ments." It will be basketball at its 
• 
With confidence gained in last best for the regional cameras of Saturday's final-minute 59-5' win NBC. 
over Marquette, Notre Dame again At guard for Driesell's team -a takes its act on the road for tomor­55-51 loser to the Irish last season­row afternoon's game against is 6-8 sophomore Adrian Branch. Maryland at Cole Field House. Averaging 19 points a game this 
Irish coach Digger Phelps' team year, Branch trailed only Virginia's sports a 10-5 record, and is looking Ralph Sampson in scoring average in to take its second step toward his initial season. Branch can hurt returning to national prominence af­you on the boards as well. In last ter the 10-1 7 disaster oflast season. year's contest, he pulled down eight 
But it won't be an easy step. rebounds. Maryland, despite inconsistency, has "Branch is a great talent -and proven itself an able opponent. he's capable ofplaying anywhere on 
The Terrapins enter tomorrow's the floor," says Phelps. "When game with an 8-5 record that in­they've got him at guard he can cludes a double-overtime win over operate almost like a Magic now top-ranked UCLA, a victory Johnson." over American University (an upset At the other guard spot for the winner over Georgetown earlier Terps is 6-5 sophomore Jeff Adkins. this season), an 80-61 winner over A starter in all 29 games for Clemson at Clemson, a one-point loss to North Carolina, 19-point See TERPS, page 12 losses to Virginia and Duke, an 18­point loss to Penn State, a five-point win over William and Mary. and a 
Detroit, UIC upcoming 
one-point win over Canisius. 
The UCLA and Clemson games are probably the best indicator of the talent to be found on Charles "Lefty" 
Ebben's success a family matter 
Driesell's squad. "Anyone who saw what Maryland By MIKE SULLIVAN high-school star, or get us scholar­record. she admits. ''I'm becoming a full­Sports Writer ship offers from some big-name col­She never thought of attending time guard and I have a lot to learn. I 
did to UCLA (winning 80-79 in 20T), has to have tremendous leges. her father's alma mater. The family never really learned how to play It's a common story. Take the case of Lynn Ebben. moved out of the Detroit area, and guard and so I have to learn a lot in
respect for what they're capable of doing against a great baskeball Those of us who grew up on One of the freshman standouts on the Detroit coach left the school in coordination with the point guard." sports remember Dad taking an Mary DiStanislao's basketball team, the midst of building a program. She For the time being, she is content
team," says Phelps. "Maryland simp­active interest in our own athletic Ebben has a father who is more looked into Notre Dame and liked in coming off the bench when called
ly dominated over certain stretches, and even when UCLA made it close, interests. He wanted to see us qualified than most in giving advice. what she saw. So did DiStanislao. upon. She realizes that, with so many succeed in life, and what better way Bill Ebben was an All-America for­"I liken her a lot to Randy Wit­good players on one team, she is
Maryland mached them basket for than for us to excel in sports. Dad ward at the University of Detroit. tman of Indiana," says DiStanislao. going to have to split time with her
basket down to the wire." might not know anything about our Not blessed with great size, speed, "She's tall, she can shoot, she can more experienced teammates.
The Clemson game Wednesday favorite sport, but he made sure that or jumping ability, he resorted to rebound, and yet she has enough "My responsible on the team is to
night was another example of the continue in
Terps capabilities. Holding he Tigers he learned the game well enough to outsmarting the opponent. When court sense to handle the ball. try to to put good give us some pointers. Maybe even he noticed that his daughter had "She has good athletic ability, minutes and help the team improve.
to just 61 points in Clemson while enough advice to get us on the little taken a liking to the game, he did not good quickness, timing, and jum­Of course, it's nice to win. Hopeful­
playing with a 30-second clock, and league all-star team. hesitate to share his knowledge of ping ability, but she's still learning ly, with the combined efforts of
an obscenely close three-point line And, on rare occasions, the advice the game. where she has to be without the ball. everyone, we'll get an (NCAA
is a tribute to Maryland's defensive Dad gave us might even make us a "IfI was shooting baskets," recalls I also hop<; she learns to cultivate Tournament) bid."
abilitiy. Lynn, "he'd come out and shoot with her ball-handling." Still, one has to wonder whether me. My brother is a year younger Ebben agrees that, despite her ear­Lynn Ebben would be shooting than me and the two of us would ly scoring success, she is not ready jump shots and dribbling a basket­play my father two-on-one. to control the game like'she could in hall if it weren't for her father. The "My father would watch me play high school. answer is yes. basketball and point out certain "The transition from high school aspects of the game and explain dif­to college has been challenging," See LYNN, page 15 ferent situations." "Lynn has benefited from the good tutelage of her father," says DiStanislao. "She's watched a lot of 
Ferris St. next up for
basketball and it shows on the court. She learns well." The 5-11 swing player is one of a trio of freshmen who are playing a 
uncertain• tcemen• 
major role in the growth of the 
ByJ.P. HEALEY the East, Bertrand is more ac­
women's basketball program. Eb­
.~ports Writer customed to an open style of play . 
ben, forward Trena Keys, and guard 
This possible conflict of team
Denise Basfc>rd form DiStanislao's Amidst all the meetings, all the in­philosophies could present a
second consecutive excellent terviews, and all the activities cen­problem for the Irish. 
. recruiting class. tered around the doubtful hockey "We're not sure exactly what to
Ebben did not wait long before situation, the Notre Dame hockey expect," commented Smith. "We
making :-orne major contributions to team must find time to actually play haven't seen the Bulldogs this year,
the team. She came off the bench in the games on their schedule. and we're only going on last years
the second game of the season 
This weekend, the Irish travel to performance, so it'll probably be a
against nationally-ranked Rutgers to Big Rapids, Mich. to do battle with tough series."
lead the team with 21 points. She Ferris State University. who are onlv The Bulldogs have more to their
added a team-high 22 points in the four points ahead of Notre Dame i~ advantage than the element of
next game against Butler to help the 
the CCHA. surprise. The team captured a big
team to its t1tst win. She completed a 
The coach of the Bulldogs, Dick upset victory over Michigan State
three-game scoring spree with I 7 Bertrand, is in his first year at Ferris last weekend. Freshman Norm
points in an 86-42 rout ofSt. Francis. State after 12 seasons with Cornell. Young turned in a "!7-save perfor­
She is currently averaging 8. 7 points 
Bertrand was met by 21 returning mance in goal for the winning effort.
and 3.H rebounds while playing 
letterman at the begnning of this "Ferris State is coming off a good
about 20 minutes every game. 
year. weekend,"said Smith. "They are
"I didn't have high expectations 
Of the 2 I experienced players, probably finally acclamated to their
that I could throw her into her 
senior Paul Cook -twice the MVP new coach and the infusion offresh­
second college game and have her ofthe team-andJim File, two-time man." 
score as many points as she did," all-CCHA defenseman, lead the ag­But Notre Dame has some am­
says DiStanislao. 
gressive Bulldogs. munition of its own.
Scoring was ont· of Ebben's 
"Last year, The Irish offensive attack will he
specialties during her career at Bel­Ferris State played a grinding style of play," said Irish lead by senior Kin Bjork whose
levue High School in Bellevue, 
coach Smith. seven points in last Saturday's vic­
Wash. She averaged 22 points, while Lefty "File is a big, tough kid who could lead that type tory of Miami of Ohio won him the
pulling down 13 rebounds, during 
ofgame." title ofCCHA Player of the Week.
her senior year. She was named to l:nder Bertrand though, things
the Converse All-America squad af­might have changed. Coming from See ICERS, page 17
ter leading her team to a 26-2 

Sophomorejohn Paxson drivesfor two in Notre Dame's last visit to Mary•land's Cole Field House, won by the Irish, 73-70, in 1981. Rich O'Connor 







